P'r-- . . I . . - ...
. , . ...
WEATHER. ^ ^ ^ . ")^)f "From fre? to Home I
Fair, cooler tonight, with heavy frost. i I . o b ^ a ^ ^ .o. . a. a . _ a a b l \T u ?^??????
Tomorrow fair, continued cool: M ^^B I lyB R H 9
mode, ate northerly winds. B H A Br^B B 1 ^Br B I B^ B 9 B^ V B ^B B 1 ^B B^^ ()/l\ Within th* Hour"
Temperature for twenty-four hours end- B T B B fl B^B B B B B^r B B B B BBB B _\ B B \ 1?tt IT ft I Tl trig MM Our
ing 2 p.m.: Highest, at 4 p.m. yes- BV B I . B B Br WW B B WT B B I B B B B W\ B 9
terday; lowest, at 7:30 a.m. today. ISM B B B B B BBB BBB B ? B* ; [
on page BBC|^J^ ^0/W^^nf ~? ?
L? ' I ^ J y^l r y Sworn Jfe? Circulation. Month of September.
CI.OSI Yd SEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 16. WW ' ,,,#* Dally Average. T?,830l Sunday. S6.S6S.
No. 29,46"! WASHINGTON, D. C., TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1916.?TWENTY PAGES. * ONE CENT.
TAKES UP REPORTS
OF SUBMARINE RAID
President Cancels Trip in
Order to Consider "Attacks
on Merchantmen.
- MR. LANSING TO BE HEARD
LONG BRANCH. X. J.. October 10.?
President Wilson gave his entire attention
today to considering facts collected
by the Navy Department regarding
German submarine attacks on merchantmen
off the American coast. He
had intended going to Brooklyn for the
third base ball game 'of the world's
* series, but changed his plans to devote
himself to the foreign affairs of the
nation. The President shut himself in
liis study this morning and went carefully
over all the evidence collected so
far. While this evidence was not given
out there was every indication that the
President has received no information
necessitating drastic action by the
American government.
The President had on his program
today a conference with Secretary Lansing
and Jules Jusserand, French amc
bassador to the United States. Mr.
Lansing will not come until late this
afternoon and will take dinner with
The President and remain at Shadow
Lawn over night. Ambassador Jusserand
has a personal letter from President
Po in care of France to Mr. Wilson
on Polish relief, but it was expected
that the new German submarine activ%
ities would be discussed.
Point Likely to Arise.
It is considered probable that during
the conference the French ambassador
may lay before the President the view
of the entente governments that German
submarines should not be allowed to
come into American ports. This point
probably will be taken up by the
President with Secretary Lansing tonight.
It was not believed that the American
government would take any immediate
action 011 developments to
date in the renewal of German submarine
activities, but serious consideration
is given to the question of
whether attacks on merchantmen so
near the American coast do not constitute
a. virtual blockade of American
ports.
President Going to Indiana.
President Wilson plans to leave
Shadow Lawn tomorrow afternoon for
Indianapolis, where he will speak twice
Thursday afternoon. It was said here
today, he had shown no indication of
canceling the Indianapolis trip, which
was taken as a sign that so far he does
not consider the submarine situation
critical.
In addition to his diplomatic conferences
today the President had an engagement
to take lunch here with
t William. F. McCojxibs, democratic nominee
for United States senator from New j
York. Vance C. McCorarfCk. chairman |
of the democratic national committee,
also was expected here for a conference
Mr. McCombs will discuss with the
President the democratic campaign in
New York.
Cites Germany's Promise.
Count von Bemstorff, the German ambassador,
who came here yesierday to
give the President a personal letter from
the German emperor on Polish relief, discussed
with President Wilson the newactivities
of German submarines. It was
understood that the President made it
clear that while the American government
had no intention of interfering with
the legitimate activities of submarines.
it would Insist on the strict observance of
the pledges given previously by the German
government.
The ambassador, while expressing entire
lack of official information, from
his government on the new submarine
attacks, said that Germany had prom
ised to conduct her submarine warfare
in accordance with the rules of cruiser
warfare.
The ambassador remained with the
President only fifteen minutes, and was
smiling when he left. He declared he was
as much surprised as anybody when the
news of the sinking of the first British
, ship reached him.
ft is understood that the talk between
the President and the ambassador was
entirely friendly, but that the President
informed the ambassador of his determination
to act firmly if the rights of the
United Slates are infringed.
Secretary Lansing Goes
for Talk With President
Regarding the U-Boat Raid
Secretary Lansing left here last night
for New York on his way to the summer
White House at Long Branch, N. J.,
to confer w ith President Wilson on the
submarine raids in the western Atlantic.
It was regarded is possible that Mr.
lousing might e Ambassador Gerard,
who reached New York this morning
irorn Germany, before the ambassador
procerus t?> report to me {'resident.
Nevertheless it was authoritatively
slated here that Secretary Lansing had
not made his trip at this time or gone
by way of New York because of the
ambassador's arrival. He expects to
meet Ambassador Gerard at the summer
White House, however, and at the
conference with the President new
light of vital importance will be
thrown on the internal situation in
^ Germany by Mr. Gerard.
Submarine Activities Secondary.
Submarine activities near American
Chores nr?- regarded as secondary to
the t ossible German policy that sent
out the VOfficials realize that unlimited
possibilities for developments
result from the transf r of German
undersea activities to American shores,
but as yet tlies are entirely eventua itles
of destruction of Ainer can commerce
and erip* ling of Amer ican export
t i?de in a purely legal way rather
th ii actual violations of international
la w
'i h?- description of the present situation
by the London press as "a pacific
blocku* e" is not accepted by offh ials
here. It is pointed out that a pacific
bio' kade is a "form of reprisals'" taken
during times of peace by one power to
coerce another power into some desired
action without an actual declaration
of war.
Fatally Hurt in Foot Ball Practice.
PHILADELPHIA. October 10?Walter
K Waldeman, seventeen years old,
^ of Yineland, N. J., a freshman at th
^niversity of Pennsylvania, has died
Jp a hospital here from injuries received
while tackling a dummy during
I foot ball practice.
'
GERARD BACK HOME,
BUT WILL NOT TALK
i i
Refuses to Deny or Confirm
Rumor He Bears Peace
Proposals.
ia/ci rnmc by pommittcp !
j ivkuvvmu u i vvmivn i i-?
x? .
j NEW YORK, October 10.?James W.
I Gerard, American ambassador to Ger,
many, upon his arrival here today dej
clined either to affirm or deny published
reports that he was returning to
the United States on a peace mission
[ on behalf of the Emperor of Germany.
| Mr. Gerard's attention was called to a !
S story which appeared this morning in
i the New York World to the effect that
his errand was to inform the administration
that a renewal of submarine activity
is being considered by Germany
in a manner which might threaten German-American
relations. Mr. Gerard,
after quickly glancing through this
story, said:
"You don't see me quoted anywhere in
it, do you?"
To questions put to the ambassador
by reporters who met him at quarantine
he replied:
"It is useless to question me, boys;
I cannot say a word.
"The length of my stay here is not
yet determined, neither have I made
any plans," lie added. "I expect to go
to Washington, but when r do not
know. I am glad to be home, though."
Committee Welcomes Mr. Gerard.
The Scandinavia-American liner
Frederik VIII, on which Mr. Gerard arrived,
was met at quarantine by a
municipal police boat, the Patrol, on
which was Mayor Mitchel's reception
committee, headed by Oscar Straus,
chairman of the public service commission.
Mrs. Gerard, who accompanied
the ambassador, was presented with a
large bouquet of American beauty
roses as she came aboard the Patrol.
She will go to Montana to visit he^mother.
; -?xrjs. uerara iias oeen creuiteu witn
! taking a leading part in war relief in
i Germany Asked as to this work she
| disclaimed any personal credit, saying
that all American women in Germany
. have done "magnificent work." Mr.
J Gerard said in response to a question
j that there are about 3,000 Americans in j
! Germany at this time of whom about
| TOO are in Berlin.
The m?^yor's commi.ttee greeted the
i returning ambassador' on the Frederik
I VIII before the party went aboard the
j Patrol. On the way up the harbor, and
j as the Patrol came into dock, ships and
j tugs in the river greeted it with tooting
of whistles. A reception to the
j ambassador was held in the city hall
later.
, In the presence of the mayor's com
mittee and Mrs. Gerard Mr. .Straus exi
pressed to the ambassador the country's
gratitude and high appreciation
for the "magnificent services you have
rendered for your country in the capital
of the German empire." Mr. Straus,
himself once an American ambassador
to a foreign country, .Turkey, sketched
Mr. Gerard's services since August,
1914, and asserted that he had "sustained
the highest measure of American
diplomacy" and performed his duties
"in a spirit of impartiality and neutrality
with ability, wisdom and unfailing
tact."
Mr. Gerard, in expressing: appreciation
of the reception, gave credit to
the embassy staff in Berlin.
To See President Next Week.
LONG BRANCH. N. J.. October 10.?
James W. Gerard. American ambassador
to Germany, who arrived in New
York today from Germany, is not ex- j
j pected to sec President Wilson until j
next week. 11 was stated atrthorita- j
tivelv here that Mr. Gerard does not j
come on any peace mission and that i
his trip has no connection with suhma- j
rinc warfare, but that he is simply on |
a vacation.
FRIENDSHIP WITH U. S.
JAPANESE ENVOY'SAIM
Ambassador Sato Glad to Be Here
and Expects to Promote Cordial
Belations With His Country.
Reiterating assurances of friendship
and good will on the part of the Japanese
toward Americans, Aimaro Sato, the new
ambassador from Japan to this country,
today expressed his hopes of being of
service in increasing the commerce between
the United States and Nippon during
his stay in Washington.
I Interviewed at his desk in the em;
bassy, the ambassador spoke cnthusiastii
? ally of his pleusure at iTeing in this j
country again.
' I am happy to be here," he said, "for
I believe much can be done to cement j
the present friendship of our two court- \
tries. I urn sure I shall enjoy Wash,
ington."
j Many diplomats called at the embassy
j today to pay their respects.
First Day in Capital.
' The new ambassador reached Washing-'
1 ton yesterday. He will pay a formal call
to Secretary Lansing at the State Dej
partment within a few days, but probably
will not present his credentials until
i after I 'resident Wilson's return from
, lAjnts Branch.
Mr. Sato, who succeeds Viscount
Chinda. recently transferred to London,
said he expected no change of foreign
policy to result from the recent cabinet
reorganization at Tokio.
The new ambassador has many friends
in the i'nited States. He is a graduate
of I>e Pauw I'niversity, at tireencastle.
1 ltd., and was a member of the Japanese
delegation to the Portsmouth peace conference.
which ended the Russo-Japanese
war. He has been In his country's diplomatic
service for many years, having
served as minister to Mexico, minister to
Belgium and ambassador to Austria.
RUSSIANS DESTROY 58
ENEMY SAILING. BOATS
PETBOGKAB, October 10.?An official
Russian statement says:
"Black sea?On October 6 our torpedo
, i boats made a raid on Samsun and Si
| nope, destroying flfty-^ight sailing
11 boats ot various sizes and bombarding
Ithe harbors. One steel boat was
brought to gebastopol and forty men
made prisoners."
V
shirskeepinportT
medbymt
Liners From Europe Arriving
on Scheduled Time Without
Being Molested.
RAIDER HAS DISAPPEARED
NEW YORK, October 10.?A day and
night without further news of the U-53
has not quieted any of the anxiety in
shipping circles caused by the activities
of the submarine commerce raider at
the bend of the ereat North Atlantic
highway off Nantucket. If anything
the disappearance of the German U
boat and the mystery regarding her
present location increased the precautions
taken bv owners and agents of
vessels of the entente nations.
Transatlantic liners and freight
steamers approached this port today by
unusual courses, which carried them
far out of the customary lane. Cargoes
worth millions are at stake in the game
of hide and seek which may he going
on off shore.
The Scandinavian - American line
steamer Frederik VIII, bringing James
W. Gerard, the American ambassador to
Germany, and the Anchor liner Cameronia
arrived here early today. The
Frederick VII came from Christiansand
and the Cameronia from Liverpool with
671 passengers.
Sighted No Submarines.
The Frederik VIII, according to her
officers, sighted no submarines while
passing Nantucket and did not change
her course. On the voyage from Copenhagen
she put in at Kirkwall, Scotland.
There the British authorities removed
Harald Orebst. a Swedish consular
agent to Costa Rica, whom they
charged with making sketches while
in the harbor at Kirkwall. All of the
ship's mail was removed at Kirkwall.
The Espagne, of the French line, arrived
at quarantine about }t:45 a.m. todav.
She had fin hoard a. ninnhpp of
prominent men and women, among
whom was John Barrett of Washington,
director general of the Pan-American
Union; Mrne. Maria Montessori,
Mme. Sarah Bernhardt, Lin a Cavalieri,
the opera singer; Enrico Caruso, the
tenor, and Giolio Gatti-Casazzi, the director
of the Metropolitan Opera Company.
The Cameronia, a British vessel, received
a wireless warning while oft
Nantucket on Sunday that a German
submarine was in the vicinity. Lifeboats
were swung out and life belts
were distributed among the 670 passengers,
and the ship abruptly turned
her course to the 'south. Off Cape May
the Cameronia entered the three-mile
neutrality limit and, hugging the
shore, steamed north, not once going
outside the safety zone.
Greek.Steamer Patris Arrives.
The Greek steamship Patris, upon her
arrival here today from Mediterranean
ports, reported that she sighted a submarine
during foggy ireatffelr 6ft Nantucket
at 5:30 a.m. Monday. The Patris'
captain said he tried to speak the
U-boat in the Morse code, but received
no answer, and his vessel proceeded unmolested.
The Atlantic transport line steamer
Minnehaha is due to leave here today
for London with freight, while the
British steamer Strathairly may leave
for Brisbane, and the Black Prince,
B-'Gsh. for Rio Janeiro.
The Cunard liner Orduna, with a large
nf nassengers, and the White
Star liner Cedric are heading toward
New York from British ports, but are
not expected to arrive off Nantucket
for several days.
Louis Costa, manager of the Pierce
line, which yesterday delayed the departure
of the steamer San Cuglielmo,
said he would give no advance notice
as?to when the vessel would sail, as
he believed German agents in the city
were Keeping me imunnen ;i? lu
the movements of the vessels of the
entente nations here.
Check to European Shipments.
Exporters here say the submarine
raid and the consequent advance of the
Insurance rates on transatlantic transportation,
amounting in some cases to
500 per cent, will check shipments from
New York to European ports. Word
was received from New Orleans that
war risks on vessels and cargoes out
of that port had been suspended, and
dispatches from other ports indicated
that insurance rates had sharply advanced.
There was talk of a revival
of a railroad embargo on freight, but
no new action was taken. A New
York Central official said no attempts
are being made to halt freight on the
way to steamers, hut that the road
would not bring to New York more
freight than the steamers could take
away.
American importers are, in part, prepared
for an interruption of transatlantic
trade which might result, from
submarine raids, it was learned today.
In anticipation of a shortage of
European goods they have placed in
bonded warehouses on the Atlantic
coast foreign merchandise valued at
about $100,000 000. They began to
store this supply soon utter the outbreak
of the war. If the German raids
| continue the American merchants will
i draw on this accumulation of stock.
This supply included, it is estimated,
coal tar colors valued at $500,000, 2,500,000
yards of wool dress goods worth
$500,000, 1,300.000 yards of wool cloths
worth more than $1,000,000, about 8,000,000
yards of linens worth $2,500,000,
furs worth $500,000, several million
square yards of foreign cotton goods
ami a wide variety of otheT imported
stock worth hundreds of thousands of
dollars.
No Clearing at Philadelphia.
! PHILADELPHIA, October 10.?No
| vessels flying foreign flags have ciearea
I from this port since the reports of
j German submarine activities off the
I New England coast reached here on
| Sunday. The local British consul has
refused ship's articles to masters whc
wished to sail, while the agents for
lines under the British flag state that
sailings will be discontinued until convoys,
which are understood to be on
their way. reach the waters outside the
Delaware breakwater.
Seventeen British, French, Italian and
Japanese vessels are docked here and
shipping men estimate that cargoes
valued at $14,000,000 are tied up here.
NAVY STILL HUNTING
KINGSTONIAN'S CREW
; NEWPORT. R. I., October 10.?The
crew of the British freight ship Klngj
stonian, missing since Sunday, when its
j members abandoned their ship at the
order of the raiding German submarine
in the waters off Nantucket shoal lightship,
bad not been heard from today.
Elevaa torpedo boat destroyers were
dispatefcti lie vicinity of the light
*
i
w- Q>
<7
o ^ i
IT'LL REQUIRE
ship by Hear Admiral Albert Gleaves
to continue the search.
No further report of the submarine or
submarines which destroyed six steamships
Sunday on the transatlantic lane
that rounds the lightship came to hand
today.
There has been no trace of the submersible
since its last victim went to
the bottom Sunday night. Search tor
the missing crew/ said tb htfmTief' fnore
than fifty men. war, halted yesterday on ,
receipt of reports that some of thein
had been found. There was no confirmation
from any source by wireless, and. :
in fact, the report was officially den'ed.
As the men had been afloat for more j
than thirty-six hours in open boats and
probably without food or adequate c'oth- i
ing the anxiety on the part of the de- j
stroyer fleet to locate them became more ;
intense, especially as the weather last
night )>eoame extremely cold.
No additional information bearing on 1
the submarine raid had reached naval '
authorities here this morning. Wireless
stations, usually kept busy reporting tl,e
position of vessels approaching New j
J York were silent, and it was said that
j vessels generally were avoiding the '
i danger zone.
Tt was reported that the sea in fh - ,
i vicinity 01 uie was ?i<-ewx.
; with tlie wreckage of the ships tor- '
j pedoed Sunday.
FRENCH LINER IN PORT
AFTER EXCITING TRIP
Espagne Went 140 Miles South After '
Warning of Raider, and Delaying
Arrival Twelve Hours.
NEW YORK, October 10.?The
; French liner Espagne came into port
today with an exciting- story of her experience
Sunday night and Monday,
when lifeboats were swung out and all
precautions taken for an encounter
with the German submarine raider.
First word reached the Espag-ne Sunday
by wireless that the German raider
was at work in nearby waters. All pre- !
cautions were immediately taken, but '
only the officers of the ship were aware i
of the danger, though the precaution- j
ary measures as soon gave the pas- I
sengers an inkling of the facts. The :
course of the Kspagne was changed
shirply to the southward. She had bee"
heading about due west expecting to
reach New York Monday, but the course
southwest lengthened her voyage another .
twelve to fifteen hours. All lifeboats
were swung clear from deck and* j
cleared for any emergency. Numbers in
the lifeboats had previously been as- i
signed to passengers while crossing the ,
war zone outside Bordeaux, and each 1 j
passenger had a ticket designating the .
number of his lifeboat and the commander.
The defensive gun mounted on the i
upper deck astern was cleared for action. 1
All passengers and crew were perfectly
calm during the preparations, and there :
was the usual gayety, though some of the
woman passengers kept their lifebelts
conveniently near them. Mme. Sat ah
Bernhardt, Una Cavalier! and the^other
i discussed the reports, but showed no
'.evidence of anxiety.
Through Monday the Espagne zigzagged
: in her course. She was so far south?140 t
I miles from her usual course?that pas:
sengers thought she might make Chcs- ;'
! apeake bay. Monday night the ship <
I trembled as full speed was put on, and ,
the zigzag course was pursued. Many
, remained on deck late at night, but no ;'
! hostile craft was seen. The ship finally <
reached the three-mile limit, within j
which sanctuary she stayed for the rest t
of her voyage.
As the Espagne drew into harbor this
morning the passengers gathered in the I
first-clase saloon and signed a testimonial
to Capt. Laurent expressing their deep 3
appreciation of the Judgment of the com- !
mander under conditions which prevailed.
Firtt Day of New York Registration.
NEW YORK, October 10.?The firm
day of registration yesterday shows a
total for the entire city of 124,8-17.
This Is an increase of 12.923 over the
first .lay's registration of last year,'
i an off year in politics. This being a
presidential year, that increase is hardly
normal. Political leaders, who had
prophesied a. record, registration this
week of 800,000, today estimated it
would not exceed 760.000.
I
CHESTNUTTING.
'A,'"
fw W?
fijMi fvj
r
THE NOVEMBER FROST J
iiai itmiim hi ikinnnnrn I
nULIuAf HJININUIKU
BY ATTORNEY GENERAL
. -* i
Head of Department of Justice Ap- \
proves Saturday Half-Day Privilege
Throughout Year.
Attorney General Gregory in a letter
to President Wilson today supported
the proposal for a Saturday half holi- j
day for federal government employes j
the whole year round. This proposition j
was first brought to the attention of :
the President by Samuel Gompers, president
of tiie American Federation of
Labor. Mr. Wilson asked all members
of the cabinet to write him their views
regarding the practicability of grant*'
ing the year-round half holiday. I
It is known that most of the cabinet i
officers are favorable to t^e proposition,
although some of them are out
of the city and have not. yet had a
chance to reply to President Wilson's
letter sending the Gomper's proposal
to them for recommendation.
Favored by Bureau Chiefs. \
Heads of bureaus and divisions i
throughout the several departments are .
unqualifiedly in favor of the all-year'
half holiday. There now is a general i
feeling that the President will issue J
the necessary order closing the federal
offices every Saturday afternoon in the j
The preparation of the reports of the
Secretaries of State, "\Var and Navy on
the subject has been delayed, because
other important business has occupied
their attention for some time past. It
is fully expected, however, that their
reports will be submitted to the President
within the next few days.
Secretary Lansing and Secretary
Baker have received reports from their,
official assistants, generally favoring!
the Saturday early closing movement,
and it is believed they will report ac- ,
cordingly.
Indorsement was also given today in
a letter to the President from John B.
Densmore, acting secretary of De- ,
partment of Labor.
Mr. Densmore in his letter said: .
-In addition to being satisiied that :
Saturday afternoon is a legal holiday
[n the District of Columbia, as stated
by Acting Attorney General McReynolds
in his opinion, I am convinced
that the business of the government can
be lis expeditiously performed and with'l
increased efficiency. I have consulted!]
the heads of the various bureaus of this .
department and they are all heartily in I
fo r >r tbA Saturday half holiday all j
the year around." j
Secretary Daniels in Quandary. j
It is said that Secretary Daniels is i
somewhat embarrassed in considering '
the question as applied to the naval
establishment in this city by the fact
that the workmen at the navy yard j
are per diem employes and can be paid
only for work actually performed.
One argument used in favor of adoption
of the Saturday half holiday is that i
the employes of the various government
departments, especiailly the State, *
War and Navy departments, have performed
much extra work since the beginning
of the European war. ^
RUSS PRESSING ATTACKS, ,
BUT TEUTON LINES HOLD!]
t
BERLIN, October IP.?The Russians
are pressing tliclr attacks in Gallcia,
west of Lutsk, but are meeting with
successful resistance by the Auatro- ]
German forces, according to the latest I
official report. The. troops .of Archduke !
Charles Francis gained ground in the i
region of Babaludowa. , .
4
I
'IB .
? O' - h ^
y 1
?<
v> : *5*
:o OPEN THEM.
several political quarters for the establishment
of such a committee. The
article recalled the attempt by the
socialist members of the reiehstag in
1908 to pass a measure which would
have required the government to submit
its foreign policy to the parliamentary
majority. The debate on this pro-,
posal caused a widespread agitation
throughout Germany.
Commenting on. the present proposal
the Vorwaerts said that if it was
adopted the antagonists of Chancellor
von Bethmann-Hollweg- would havt* an ,
opportunity to ask for his dismissal,
it added that the vote would show what
the reiehstag thinks of Germany's war
aims. The article concluded: "This
again proves the necessity of Germany
having a system of parliamentary government."
CHANCE FOR ENLISTED MEN.
Will Get Opportunity for Commissions
by Study at West Point.
For the first time in the history of
the army, men In the ranks are to he I
given the privilege of attaining com.- I
missions through a course of study .at
the I'nlted States Milltnrv A curiam,- '
That Is In accord -with a provision in
an act of Congress approved May 4,
1916, authorizing the President to appoin
cadets to the academy from
among enlisted men of the army who
have served not less than one year.
Ac?J* Con. McCain says that by June
14, 1917, there probably will be fortyone
vacancies for the admission to the
aCctueniv of qualified candidates from
the regular army.
As tne regulations of the academy
provide that there shall be three candidates
for each vacancy, 123 enlisted
men will be allowed to compete in the
examination next March for admission
to the academy in the following June.
Only unmarried men are eligible for
these appointments.
INTEREST PAYMENT TESTED.
"Danbury Hatters'" Case Figures
Again in Highest Court.
Payment of $20,000 interest on the
$252,000 judgment secured in the "Danbury
hatters'" case against members
of the United Hatters' Union for boycotting
the firm of D. E. Loewe & Company
in 1903, is contested in a test
case appealed to the Supreme Court ?>f
the United States by the Savings Bank
of Danbury, Conn. This institution
holds savings of the union members
attached to satisfy the judgment. The
lower federal court held that the
Loewe Company was entitled to the
Interest.
Police Guard Oil Company Plant.
BAYONNE, N. J., October 10.?Armed j
policemen today guarded the local j
nlnnt nf th* Standard Oil rnmnnnv I
where a strike was called which was '
said to affect more than 3,000 men, or j
ibcSit half the employes. TheVtrikers 1
Jemand wage increases of from 30 to
30 per cent. A trolley car carrying
nen to work today was attacked with
stones, out no one was seriously hurt.
Officers of the company said they
would continue to operate; if the strike
lid not spread.
British Admiral Dies.
LONDON, October 10.?Admiral Sir!
William Robert Kennedy died yesterlay
at Falconers Hill, Davontry. He ,
was born in 1838.
flew German War Credit to Be Asked
AMSTERDAM, October 10.?The Ger
nan reichstag will ask for another i
war credit of 12,000,000,000 marks dur
ng the present session, according to!
he Kolnische Volkszeitung.
Brig. Gen. John H. Page Dies.
W'EST POINT. N. V., October 10.?
Srig. Gen. John H. Page. U. S. A., reared.
has died here at the home of his
ion-in-IaW. Capt. George S. SImopds, an .
nstructor In the military academy. He
was born In Delaware in 1842.
RUMANIAN ARMIES
CONTINUE RETREAT
Toerzburg in Transylvania
Falls Before Austro-German
Forces.
SERBS REPULSE BULGARS
I.ON'DOX". October IP.?Tlie Rumm- j
ians in Transylvania are retreating j
along- the whole line, the Berlin war ;
office announces. The Austro-German J
forces have captured Toerzburg;
Continuing: their advance the Aus- .
tro-German forces under Gen. von i
Falkenhayn have captured t he passes I
in the Hargitta and Carole mountains. I
On both sides of Brasso (Kronstadt), !
the Berlin statement adds, the troops
of the central powers are pressing the i
Rumanians, who have lost twenty-live i
cannon in this sector in the qpurse of j
the last three days.
West of the Vulcan pass, on the
Rumanian frontier, it is announced, the
mountain Negrului was captured by the
Teutons.
The statement says the Rumanians
sent in reinforcements from the north
in an effort to check the Teutonic
forces in the neighborhood of Kronstedt.
These reinforcements took part
in a battle northeast of Kronstadt. but !
were unable to stay the advance of the |
Austrians and Germans.
Bucharest admits that in the Brasso
(Kronstadt) region the Rumanians
were obliged to fall back toward the
northern ends of the Carpathian passes.
In the Caineni and Jiul passes minor
infantry and artillery actions were
fought, ending in favor of the Ituman
Continue to March Ahead.
Regarding the operations against the
Rumanians in Transylvania and Dobrudja
the Berlin war office statement
of today says:
"In eastern Transylvania we continue
to march ahead. The Rumanians were
beaten in the battle of Kron.stadt. Re- j
inforcements arrived from the north in'
vain and joined the combat northeast ;
of Kronstadt. We conquered Toerzvar,
or Toerzburg. The enemy is roiling
back 011 the whole line.
"Army group of Field Marshal von
j Mackensen?German troops, assisted by
I Austro-Hungarian monitors, captured
by a surprise attack an island in the
I Danube northwest of Sistova. Two ofI
fleers, 156 men and six cannon were
j taken."
I British Take Two Towns
; and Bulgarians Retire
to Hills in Seres Region
| LONDON. October 10, 2:12 p.m.?The
j Bulgarian forces., . which have been I
opposing the British troops in the reI
gion to the east of the River Struma, :
j in Greek Macedonia, have retired to ]
the hills northwest of Seres, says the I
British olficial statement issued today. !
I The British have occupied the towns of
j Kalendra and Homondos.
I Near the town of SKochivir, on the
! north bank of the Cerna river, in Seri
bia, today's German b;?iciai report s
j the forces of the entente allies achieved
small results.
Admits Serb Crossing of Cerna.
The Bulgarian war office acknowl- j
edges that Serbian troops have forced
a passage of the Cerna river in Greek {
.Macedonia. 11 sajs uie wimaii!)
subjected to a counter attack and that
the fighting continues. According to !
the French war office, the Bulgarian j
counter attack failed and more Serbians
are crossing the river.
The Bulgarians have retired north of ,
the Brod." it is declared. "On the left J
wing Franco-Russian forces have
reached the new line of Bulgarian defense
from Kenali to Lake Presba. j
i The village of Skochivir has fallen ,
into Serbian hands.
j East of the Struma engagements j
occurred between British troops and,
Bulgarian rear guard detachments, who;
are retreating toward the railway. It
has been confirmed that during the
recent fighting in this region the Bulgarians
suffered considerable losses. At
one point alone 1,500 bodies of enemy
dead were found on the ground.
250 Persons Are KHIed
in Air Raids on Bucharest;
Charges Against Germans
AMSTERDAM, October 10.?According
to information received by the
Rumanian degation at The Hague, 250
persons, of whom 200 were women,
have been killed or wounded by German
aircraft in bombardments of I
Bucharest. These attacks continue by
day and night.
The protest recently addressed by
the Rumanian government to tlie
United States and other neutrals is
said at the Rumanian legation to relate
not only to the bombardment of
Bucharest and other open towns, but
to allegations of atrocities by Bulgarian
troops in Dobrudja. who are said
to have made attacks before the declaration
war, and to German war
methods in the Balkans, which are
characterized as cruel.
Criminality Is Charged.
The following- official communication I
has been issued in Bucharest:
"A squadron of eight German aeroplanes
Hew over Bucharest at 11
o'clock yesterday and dropped bombs i
in the neighborhood of the Gare du
Nord and on some linen warehouses. I
The damage done was insignificant.
The enemy aviators left a half-hour
later.
"An investigation made at the Ger- ;
man legation led to the discovery of
numerous cases of trinitrotoluene
buried in the garden of the legation
and of flagons labeled '\irus,' which
was intended to propagate simultane- !
ously an epidemic among men and
horses.
"A representative of the United !
States legation witnessed the discovery*, i !
This new criminal German maneuver re- j ,
veals preparations similar to those ; .
made in other countries. The Germans ; '
were unable to use their high explo- : ,
sives against works of art, as they ]
were surprised by Rumania's entry into ; J
the war and by the surveillance of the j
secret police." 1 1
i
Details to Ordnance Corps. ''
It is announced at the War Depart-" t
ment that an examination will be held ! <
January 29, 1917, of captains and first i 1
and second lieutenants of the army at 1
l^rge, with a view to their selection for ,
detail for a period of four years as cap- ?
tains and first lieutenants in the ord- j
nance department, to fill such vacancies
in those grades as may exist Juno 20. ]
1917, _ i
( *
FANS, IN OVERCOATS,
PACK EBBETS FIELD
FOR THIRD CONTEST
Shivering Thousands at Brooklyn
See Dodgers Play Red
Sox in ''Crucial" Game.
MAY VIRTUALLY DECIDE
SERIES FOR THE TITLE
Another Victory Today Practically
Wonld Assure Boston of BaseBall
Championship.
KBBETS FIELD, Brooklyn, October
10.?With the battle for the premier
base ball honors of the year transferred
from Boston to Brooklyn today,
the base ball enthusiasts of Greater
New York flocked by the thousand to
Ebbcts Field to view the world series
from a new angle. Brooklyn has sent *
many a strong delegation to the Polo
Grounds in Harlem, home of the Giants,
to witness post-season struggles in former
years, but today saw a reversal of
the process with the tide of travel
turned toward Flatbush, where sits the
stadium occupied by the present National
League champions.
In contrast with the warm haziness
of the past few days, remarkable for
its suitability to the great national
pastime, the morning broke cool and
breezy with the promise of a day more,
suited to work on the gridiron than on
the diamond. A brisk northwest breeze
sent many spectators to the park wearing
overcoats and gloves.
Stands Gayly Decorated.
The ticket holders for the games to be
played on the Flatbush diamond?there y
were more than 20,000 of them before the
rush to the grounds started ? were not
over-impatient to get to the playing Held,
and the Brooklyn traction lines were
easily able to take care of their forenoon
patrons. The thousands who had not
been forehanded, however, together with
other thousands who counted on winning
out in the struggle'for places in the unreserved
section, provided a steady flow
of traffic groundwards, augmented later
by the throngs of possesssors of the
elaborately lithographed cardboards entitling
them to specified seats within the
playing arena. And long before the game
time there was every indication that the
stadium, at the call of play, would be
filled to the limit of its 26.000 capacity.
The playing field itself had been
smoothed down for the occasion. Gayly .
decorated with the abundance of bunt]
ing that the Brooklyn management had
i supplied, it was flanked on three sides by
| the accommodations for the spectators.
I additional seats to the number of L'.non
! having been provided in stands stretchi
ing along the left field fence.
The struggle of the day. coming after
the two desperate encounters in Boston.
which left the Brooklyns without
a victory and gave the Bed Sox a commanding
lead in the battle for the title,
promised to be perhaps the "crucial'
game of the series.
Dodgers Not Downcast.
On familiar ground, after the loss of
two heart-breaking struggles on alien
soil, the Dodgeds figured in the calculations
of ardent Brooklynites as likely
to gather sufficient inspiration from
congenial surroundings to give them
the edge thcv lacked ir^ the Braves'
Field encounters. A pair oi" reverses
by single-run margins, in one of which
five extra innings were required to
subdue them, was not looked upon as
an indication that the -.National Leaguers
were outclassed and doomed to
certain defeat. Nevertheless, it was
realized that today's battle might virtually
decide the series, as another setback
would force the Robins to the
wall, where a single thrust would mean
their downfall.
It was likely to be either the turning
point of the series or a continuation of
the Red Sox march to victory, and with
no decided superiority in run-making
power demonstrated by the American
Leaguers the supporters of the Tener
circuit champions were not inclined to
concede anything unless or until they
were forced to do so. On the other
for the continuance of their favorites'
triumphal progress, confident in the
superiority of the Boston machine, supremely
reliant that "class would tell"
and cause the closing chapters of the
story to be written in the records of
the games to be played on Hbbeta
Field today and tomorrow.
Concede One Game, at Most.
One game, at most, for the Robins
was all that the great majority of them
would concede. And with their starter
likely to be Leonard, another lefthander,
who when in shape is one of
the hardest twirlers in the profession
to hit. few of them could see much
chance of anything but a third victory
with another follow with Shore or
Mays on the morrow.
Manager Wilbert Robinson of the
Brooklyn^, as usual, gave no hint of his
pitching selection, but "Iron Man" Jack
Coombs was looked upon as his probable
choice, with Marquard in a comeback
effort as a possibility.
The assembling fans were earlj* on
the lookout for the particular heroes of
the preceding battles to give them a
hearty reception. Harry Hooper and
"Del" Gainor, of pinch-hitting fame
were in the hero class for the Red Sox,
and "Babe" Ruth was singled out for
credit for the notable game he twirled
yesterday. Of the Brooklyns popular
approbation was forthcoming for "Hy" /"
Myers, whose homer in the first inning*
of the second game at Boston kept the
Robins in the running until after tho
break of the fourteenth, and for Marquard
and Sherrod Smith, whose twirling
performances, even though barren of
victory, had endeared them to the
Brooklyn rooters. The members of the
Brooklyn team, who spent the night,
after their evening trip from Boston, at
their homes near the Flatbush arena,
were at the grounds early to listen to
a few words of counsel from Manager
Robinson. The Bostons, who came over,
at the same hour as their rivals, passed
the night at a hotel in Manhattan, but
within easy drive of the stadium by
automobile.
The first excitement of the day camn
when the Boston Royal Rooters, about.
500 strong, paraded around the field led
by a red-mated band playing the battle
song of the fans, "Tessie." The Boson
rooters occupied a reserved section
lack of the visitors' playing bench off
third base.
It was announced that O'Day would
mipire behind the plate, while Umpire
Connolly would make the base decisions;
with Umpire. Dineen in right and Umpire
Quigley in left field.
There was a long conference of umpires
and managers on ground rules,
md this delayed the opening of tho
jame.
Mays and Thomas was the battery ?e
ection tor Boston; Coombs and Miller
lor Brooklyn. _
* .
