THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and cooler to-day; to-morrow fair
and continued cool; northerly winds.
Jllglicpt temperature yesterday, 84; lowest, 65.
Xctalled weather, mull and marine report on page 10.
IT SHINES FOP; ALL
VOL. T XXXIV. NO.. 40.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10 1916 , Copyright, 1018. by the Sun fritting and rubttthtng Aitoclatton.
ONE CENT
In tlreater New Tnm,
Jersey Clljr and Newark
I TWO CKNTS.
Stilt.
5
4?
ft
J
BOSTON VlCT0R!coror
PUOIVH UU1VH 400 PER CENT. MELON
OVER BROOKLYN
IN 14TH, 2 TO 1
i
I,nn("'l World's Scries Con- J
test Ones to Red Sox on
Gainer's Pinch Hit.
),XALLY DRIVEN HOME
"WITH AVIXX1XCJ TALLY
Until and Smith Struggle
Willi Mound Labors on
Even Terms.
JIVKKK STANDS FORTH '
AS IIEKOEOR BROOKLYN
Spectacular Playing of
Local Outfielder Astounds
Yu (I of 11.000.
r. . Mass., Vt. 9. Like Titan
In .hroea of a tie for thirteen nnd
a half innli.gs, the IWstuii Americana 1
ar.d ti e Brooklyn Nationals struggled nt
! Field this ufteiiioon. I.Ike vcrl- J
to. !). rmeii of the diamond. Inspired . resusoltntton of the lilsh Ilepiihllcmi
to .11 . ulr.ioritlnaty In .1 contest that Ilrnthcrhood, Iilentlcnl with the old
v 'itf : tie 1 chapter lit world's timm- Fenian organization.
(; -n. We.ull history, they fought According to this statement the Sinn
tn Me .net gathering shadows with C,; "'""''J' 'rUlnally ror.11 lvc.1 was
in ..11 . R-un ri b k,)r(1 ,,. (lc ,.:Mr r.bf0li nftcr
ni r ;.c.i' 115 un loin. 'which tho .ullierentM or Hlnn I-Vn were
TT1.1 in Hi.' fourteenth Innlliir. tfann- left U'iiiIcI'Ii-kh niiil illsorn.uiln'il. Thern
11 ii-r Itlihmond oti the flelil of battle ; f,re fewer Sinn Kelnera now tlmn lfore
...a .u i,e,l th.. tide ..f victory In favor "aJ..rcVO"- bul ""lro r""-1"' t,,p 'tor
..' U'lto'i. Tho ecore wail 3 to 1. It, The explanation offered In that th
i.M rol:is Qalner, Injected Into tho fray Pl'in Kolnem of extremo vlewn have
, , l.ii reiort a Kubmltutc bnttman'i,JJ '"e rlli ltepnl.llcan llrother-
. '. , u ... ,i, 1 1. 1 noodl wl,,, h h " In exlnteme more
fo. Mrry Unrdner. who struck the Mow than a half century nd ha KreHtcr
inat cari.ed for the Ited Sox their eecond power to caune mlHchlcf than the Hlnn
luc-cMlve victory. 1 Fpn evpr
11 iiln.r with Mike MiVallv Us mcml"'"lilp had dwindled to a few
It w.ni Ualner. with Mike IKNUly I wore ,h(( bt((,r Bn.nilsl!Ml fvc,1f
i:ri)ntnit on h leaeh ui second bane, which tlanied linn'.edlatcly after the te.
hi ilroie n. lonR Mimle to lert field that vo!t has given the brotherhood a new
maje po'slu'e the tally that may prove lee of life. It 14 oreanlxed In circles.
t.3 all lonumrlnB factor In the crles. I nnd each circle Is the name n a reirl
?uccee In the firt two Karnes Is an ment. The clrrles have prun; up and
iiKMihelmln advantage that In thirteen (continue to sprlnir up nil over the coun
)! of world's series history has never try. There ra about too In Dublin
filled nny'eluh. Klv- more contests are ' alone.
till kmIuIi. but rrltty nnd UKgreeslvc In Ilelfart. here the Sinn Fein never
it llspy arc tho Suiwrbas are now onl had more than roo members, the brother
aloilorn hope. hood has already S.oijfl. The brother
hood has some of the Sinn KWn arms and
Pltehera All Powerful. ammunition, but It I' doubtful If one In
The t,r!ty for a play off appeared t.i'!, '' l'u!J ' Provided
era ' illy assured before (lalnir rose . . ,
. o.v.islon In so dramatic n fashion. , A Vlc .m",n'r,t renuo.is .fforis are
.- -I Smith for ltrooklyn and ileorw helnt, n.ade to recruit lumbers from he
f..r lloston wiro on Raged In n left1 i'lbu..d IrNh Volunteers, and Is be.
pitching duel In which both evl the volunteer, have still large
n more effective as the nervous ' quantities of arm hUbl.n. The brother-
7-ore on their team mates and mlssarle are also busy among the
' 'hous-inds In the stands. K:wh I Notional olunteers.
' '11. li.nl allowed only six hits In all
i 1 s tu.sle before Onlner ma.le SAYS WAR INCREASES CRIME.
Id ainsle that wrecked ltrooklyn j
r , , 1 Nutiuoriunl I'ersnns lleiuornllsril,
1 paradox another example I
e oft rivurrlng perversity of base-1 Asserts F. Ilniory I.ou.
1- hat (5nlner should have been sent 1 n...... .... v - .. ,.., ... ...
' Mil for the leading hitter of tha Ited
m lid risKinded so effectively.
Tiii f uirternth lnnlntr had opened
v ' ' D.cl; Ilob'.itiell reaching first base
cv tr.ire oi a pass. 11 was im- rounn .
P- Ilobbtzell had received from '
Sri i The Siierti.i southpaw expert-
il cmt dltticulty In locating thu
it I'm iiuoiner oo imiieu irum me
un nuo 01 thu plate. Here again Old
'vnrrs.ty crojipcd up. Four other left
.'indcil hlitirs of the Ilwl Sox had
' n .is clay In the hands of the Ilrook
ir p.tcner.
Rnlner In llrru Hull.
D'irtV Kenls, hero of the l!ir. series 1
Itli IV Philadelphia Nationals, did the
!'.(! with a terrltle hit that ad-
rjnc nl Holilltzell to second base. Gainer
mode fonvard In place of Onrrinor and .
('H I., as a ball whizzed to Otto Mll
jr. .MiNnlly canio out to run for Hob
! 1 .mil Smllh speeded a perfect strllto
M"-' t ii' still paexlie Cialner. Now the
oounr.ill.
The thud pitch was met nnuarely and
'.histleil to left Held, while MoNally
iiiisil home with the winning run.
ij.ilner got n far as second, and rushed
u the clubhouse before fickle fandom
icmlrt tarry him off.
Nearly forty-two thousand persons
miy a few hundred ahort of the record
r baseball attendance set In the world's
trie here last year sweltered In the
incls while the heat of battle grew
'"'ire intfiiso with the passing of each
inning, Never before In the aitnals of
the baseball classic had there been a
'jn!et that developed so many dramatic
Munitions, t0 niany remarkable feata.
Wth on defence and attack and
f .retched over so many Innings.
1 i longest previous game In ft
world s series was played by the Detroit
Americans and Mie Chicago Nationals
n 1!W;, when they fought for thirteen
Innings to a 3 to 3 tie. In 1912 tho Now
lo'li NnMonals nnd the Uoston Amer
iai playvii another indecisive contest,
ieh scoilng six runs In twelve Innings,
inn extra Innings that brought a de
H'KM to-day were made possible by tho
le'ed with which tho teams played nnd
;n spite of tho lowering clouds that
1 hL nn ,I,H nlowa nt an early
i.wir. The game lasted only 2 houra and
- minutes,
M)rr. Ilt.rs fo Occasion.
Itrooklyn's hero, the lustre of whoso
S ,"";nu oal""l dimmed by the
'ir.hl" rlul'' ' Hurry Myers, tho
ni fl'1,lr Myi'rs. probably least of
! i wa" rr"Ctid to play a leading role,
2 realty Myers and Smith who
ooil off ,hu whojB Ilosl()n teMn , y
"li'lllMlvCS
iii.f.V" who gave the Huperbna
I'llir loiln rim iiml il ....
hittl
" In tlm first Inning with a home !
. . .in III IIIIW UlC
.... ,, - ! "I. II . II. '.III.
run It w, Myers who in the ninth
Intif;
'" oir a tally that would hava
f,.1 " ,ht: "'I Sox victory In regulation
" It was Myers who made one of
t'.e
mst lensatlonal catches yet seen
" tbl.l uhen In tlm sixth Inning
onviUed what theratened to lie a
(
I.
' " 1 ' ' llarrj Hooper Into an
1 m' "' ''" I'UtOllt.
ilni fiae gamed lame In world's
Cnnl aunt ,,n FuurUtnlh Page.
Dlrcctorx to Conslilrr Jncrciis
intf Caiitaliziiti(ii to
9100,000.000.
CitrcAiirt, Oct ),n. J. Dunham, vice
president f Armour & Co., announced
tcfittxlit tli.it iit tin; next meeting ofvthc
hoard of directors nn Increase In flip.
Itnllllltlmi rrnm I4n nniHiA ... linn nnii .
i 000 -will Im considered.
While nothing wns said in hlK fornnl
statement fa to tlm i1Imhi-IiIoii of this
stock. It was Inferred there would be a
distribution nf nrcuinuhited profits In
I (11(1 hustings Mlll'll ll .ll.li.ll. ill .......Ii
nienn n Mock .llvl.lonil of 40(1 per cent.
Mr. Ddnhiitn's statement gives In
formation Hint ttid J80.000.o0o surplus
Involved In the Increase In cnpltalliatlon
was earned In the perils! from J SOI to
in. wnrn nut rcw dlvldcndr were paid
find the earnings were allowed to it-main
I In the business nnd vveto Invested In
plnlit extension.
The company's fiscal .nr doc. not
close until Hip end of October, liut It Is
Itnoivn that gross sales, like thoc of
oilier packet, will (.how an Increase
over lOlt. wh.it they exceeded ll!S,.
C'00,000,
SINN FEINERS JOIN
IRISH BROTHERHOOD
Old Vnian Orjruniziiiioii, Hit
Inly Antl-llritisli, Is
Revived.
lrriut t'nhh tittiHHch to Tiir. Si
London, Oct. 9. The nnUu .Vi.ie
gives prominence to mi article on the
creasing, nccordlng to a report of I".
Kmory l.yon, chnlrmnn of the committee
on discharged prisoners of the American
Prison Association, to the nsyoclutlou
to-day. The Increase may be traced ill
rcctly to the Influent of the Kuropean
war, he said. Ilh proof of the ncieae
was tlm overpopulation of practically all
me prisms in tuo country,
'With n doien nations at each other's
throats, destroying life and property .it
an unprecedented rate, can there lie any
other result than the lessening of the
sense of the Macrednesa of human llfo
and Indifference as to the Importance of
material valuiw?" he said. "If the av-
'rage citizen becomes more callous over
'e accounts of human slaughter what
of .'.h ,'Bn,,' normal, more
r,,s,U' Influenced ar.d less alive to the
'"? """J"'''"" umruineu 111
HOTTEST OCTOBER 9.
Humidity- dls to IXsonniCairt
of
luaeaaonable Temperatare.
High humidity and nn unseasonably
lofty temperature mado yesterday one of
the hottest October days on record, tlm
mercury climbing to the flummerllko ul
tltuda of 84 ut 2:.1U In the afternoon.
Hut the discomfort did not Inst long.
About nightfall .1 frosty blast came out
of the northwest nnd the silver streak
shrank down toward the bulb, fulling to
the chilly cellar temperature of ItC at
11 o'clock last night, with n threat to
drop Into the nubcellur before dawn to
day. The forecast for this day calls
for fair and cooler weather.
There Is a West India cyclone whirl
ing Into being near tho Island nf St.
Thomas, where niaybo American made
storms may be erentcd some time here
nfter, nnd the Washington prophets say
ships down that wny had better look out.
latter the disturbance, which last night
was assuming "marked chirncter," may
uffect tho southern rhores of this con
tinent. Hut It Is too far off to tell
much about Just yet.
CHINATOWN ONLY DOZING.
Tutpector IMryrr Finds II0111I1,
Oplnm nnd Knives on Still Hunt.
Police Inspector Dwyer of the Second
district, who has lately found Chinatown
too quiet to be nutural, went nut slum
ming last night with a flying squadron
mid leturned later feeling cheerful nt
having found 11 Chinese, bomb with
enough dynamite, tn inil.c u big Dolce
and 11 barrel of "tmlfins. tlm hearts of
which, through somu remarkable system
of Oriental agriculture, had benii trans
formed Into lumps of opium,
There were also seven knives sulll-
clent for a good old fashioned Tung
picnic and n bottlo containing a liquid
which the detectives iici'ipieii us nitro
glycerine without trying to test It. Also
among tha funlshlngs of the place, the
police suld, was Yeo Ien. 39, merchant,
of It Mott street, who was locked In the
Kllznbeth street Million charged with
having narcotics In his possession,
Orwer's Kuperlor I'nrl Wine, SI a llutll.
Our meat einirl.lilng, tilniel.iiiHklrig Hine,
lit Kulloa St.. N, T, I'boas Ittl Cart.
.iii'.
WARDEN OSBORNE
OUT, HITS WHITMAN
Says (Jovoriioi' Kails to Krii !
Promises anil Favors llt'ii
tnlity in Prisons. I
POLITICS TN HIS METHODS
('alter Assailed for Hrcakimr
I' Welfare Leiifrno. Illumed
for Lifers F.s!iVjhs.
Ai'i'itsliig Uoe Whitman of using the
I Department nf l'rlon for political pur-'
IpoKes, asserting that he I a believer In'
jthe old system of letallatlon and brutal-1
Ity In prisons, and declaring that the)
Uovernor hns broken every promise he
has ever made to blin, Thomas Mutt
Osboine, warden of Sing Sing, resigned
, yesterday
Osborne's ielgmitluii was wired yes-j
Ilenlay inmnlng t .lames M. Catter, Su
perintendent nf I'l Irons. The wire stated'
' that he would give his reasons In a let
ter to rollow ,the telegram, last night
at the Hotel Helinniit Osborne, through
hi. counsel, Huntington W, Merchant,'
mad public the litter when he mailed
1 It to Albany, The most striking para-,
graph In n letter notable for Its dliect
innii nnd fearles.ncs.t. follows:
"I appreclnte the dllllcultles and em
bairassmtnts nf your position. I cridll
you wilh the desire nnd the Intention I
when ymi became Miptrlnterdent to con-)
duct juui- olllce with falrnass mid cojn-.
nion penv. but the reactionary force
about jon have hen tim strong.
' "The t'menior wno .ippolnted you Is
, antngoulstlc to the system that Is being
, carried on nt ubutn and Sing Slug
prisons : he has tried to use you and
our nllke tor political purpose; he Is
a believer In the old system of retalia
tion nnd brutality : he bus highly praised
as the best conducted prison In the Stato
tile very one wheie the old conditions
; In all their vllences and horror still pie
vail. J
1
llroke Kvcr' Promise. j
"As for his dealings with me person-1
ally. I believed originally In Charles 8. 1
I Whitman's friendship and sincerity; but
itlE.bmke every promise he ever made to
I me. both beforo and after he took of-!
flee ; ar.d I have been flfinlly and re
luctantly forced to a realisation that
without his acquiescence the shameful
attacks made upon me In Westchester j
county wouio never nave oeen intituled
or gained head nay."
Osborne had nothing further to sv
yestetilay that was not lncorKrated In,
11111 icuvr. lie pri'inrvti ine letter at 111111
University Club In the afternoon, return-!
Ing to Slug Sing enrly In the Vvenlng,
wiiere bu will remain until his succes
sor Is named. Although the rumor of
, hit resignation had been liieiilatcd
(thioughout the prison, there was no
demonstration of any kind. Alt the con
vlctii were In their cells when his auto-;
' mobile drove into the prison nrd.
1 Uov. Whitman was at Sarnnac Lako
when untitled of Osborne's resignation. 1
Ho asked over the telephone what Os-biu-no
had to say. and then hj mado thei
, following statement: I
"I am much uurpiiscd, ax I supposed
, that he was devoted to his work and
. anxious to remain In it. 1 haven't seen '
the letter which he says he Is sending lo
Supt. Carter. Warden Onbonio had tho
support of the administration from the
tlrst." J
Thero have been v rumors current
In the Capitol for a long time that Whit.
, man Intended removing Oilsirne after
the election. Men close to (Mborne have
announced that I hi intended taking an ,
active pan against the Ooveinor In tho 1
campaign and his removal or resignation '
has been expoctid.
It was thought for a short time .
..flap n.i...,.A'u IH..I .1.. -1 i
...... v.. iw n u ,u...,ii ui nir ijitUKvl
nadp agalnit him In Westchester
, county and his return to the pili-on
.that he might leiualn. but Carter's re
j cent ordain depriving the members of the. 1
1 .Mutual Welfare League of thiir privi :
leges brought Osborne's determination to
resign and go nut In tho open mid light
Whitman to quick conclusion.
Attacks Carter fur Orders.
Osborne In hi letter last night to
Carter mentions tho orders Issued In the
prison without his rooierntlon or even
consultation- In refeunce to this he
said :
"I regret to riy that you have not
kept fnlth. Your recent ordeis lesued to
the pre.ss before they even reached the
wardens thus giving no time to object,
to correct or to modify are such as to
make good administration In any Institu
tion Suite prison or huslneH concern
Impossible, You have foi hidden that the
public shall have full knowledge of what
Is going on In their own penal Institu
tions, yet this very secrecy which you
would enforce Is the very thing that
makes possible the graft and brutality of
the old system, and Mill .n-akts ixisslblo
11 continuance, of graft nnd brutality In
one of tho State pilsons under your
charge.
"i:icapos
which have
and pri'on delinquencies,
always existed under the
but have been materially
old system,
reduced under the new, are made your
excuse for epreadtiu' abroad doubt and
distrust of the Jlutuul Welfare Ioague,
and even for the 11ctu.1t destiuctlon of
Its activity,
"Fur Instnnce In your latest order of
October .1 you write: 'I have divided
that hereifter the prlvllego of convicts
known 11s "lifers" nnd llinpe having long
terms mut b riinflmil Insldii the walls
of the Institutions; this older to take
effect at once.'
"Nothing oould be more evpllclt or Im
perative, Tho warden Is to exercise no
judgment of his own, the superintendent
hitH "decided," nnd Ids order Is to taku
effect at once. Without Ihu head of the
Institution being consulted my office Is
disorganized, the Comptroller's! offlie Is
stripped nt nveiy rfrrk ; the fuiees In
charge nf the stable, the package and thu
visiting rooms (places where reliable
men urn vital In order lo prevent the In
loads of drugs mid liquor) are deprived
of their respouslhlo beiiibi and most of
their workers. The coinpnuy repairing
roads In charge of tho Highway Depart,
ment Is deinoralli'd,"
In another part of this letter Osborne
says that the publication of theso orders
by Curler In tho nuwepapeis before they
were given to li tut gave warning to long
tlmeis to escape before he had an oppor.
tuulty to lock thrin up. He calls ntteii.
tlon to tlm fact none did, which ho says
la proof of tho value of tho system which
Cartar la atlamptlng to destroy,
RAIDER U-53 ELUDES ALLIES WARSHIPS;
U. S. RECALLS FLEET OF TEN DESTROYERS;
WILSON TO INSIST GERMANY KEEP PLEDGE
i
Washington Regards the i
Situation as "Extreme- !
l.v Oravc."
I'llKSI DENT TO HE
THE SOLE .I I'DOE
Attack on Stepliano. With
Americans Aboard, the
Chief Concern.
v AMliX&voN, Oct. 9. The solution of
the new ciisi that bus arisen In the In
tel national lehtloiiH of the Putted Slates
In the wake of the havoc caused by tier
man submarines almost within Jiaillng
distance of American shores rests with
l'reildent Wilson.
It will be fur him to decide what ac
tion the Government will take If any is
to tie taken to formulate the dlpliunatlo
pulley to meet this new phase of sub
marine warfare.
The executive departments In Wash
ington tu-day did little but receive and
scrutinize lepmts of the activities of the
undersea vessel and the efforts to rescue
the pasengiis and crews of tho sunken
ships. Thise were communicated to the
President, sjecietary Lansing himself,
scarcely lecovcred from his recent Ill
ness, will go to Shadow Lawn to-morrow
to dls-us 'he situation with his chief.
Although State Department otllclat
am convinced that there had In en no
violation of International law thus far
the.v tea'.lze that prolouga'lon of such
operations in waters adjacent to the
I'nlted States would In fraught with
many potentlalltlei oM nf will, h sei lolls
diplomatic Is.-ues might iiiio. It be
came known nf er a confertnee In-twecn
Secretary I.nnlug nnd Secretary Dan
iels that nil the evidenre thus far col
lected by the Navy Department was re
garded as showing that none of (Irr
muny's pledges to tho I'nlted States or
her obligations under Int'jtuttlonul law
had been violated.
Mlluntlon r.strrmrly Orave.
It was made clear to-day thct until
tb President himself reaches n decision
nn we-rd will be forthcoming from the
State Department as to the policy this
Government will pursue. This was
stated positively to-day after both Sec
retary 1-anslng nnd Counsellor Polk had
gone over the latest despatches from
naval sourtes, It can only tie sild au
thoritatively that the situation Is re
garded as ."ctrcnuiy grave
Sir Cecil Sptlng-ltlce, the nrltlsh Am
bassador, nnd .M, Juserand. the French
Ambassador, have asked the Pulled
States tn notify them concerning the
movements of American nibinHrlnvs 111
the futuie. This Is to prevent llrilltli
or French warships mistaking Ameilcan
submarines for Ceiinjii P boats, and a
u striking indication of bow the war is
now transferred tn tho proximity of
American shores. It also foreshadow
nttlon by the llrltlsh Admiralty t.. vopj
with the P boat campaign on tin sld)
of the Atlantic.
Ileports cume Intermittently to Secre
tary Uinslng describing fresh attacks on
commerci) carriers and the vnllant rescue
work of American naval officers In sav
ing human lives. '
Secretary lauislng looked haggard nnd
worried when he received the newspaper
corie.spondents to.day. He made It clear
that he would have nothing to say con
cerning this Uoveriiment's attitude In th"
emergency.
"All we know so far Is what we have,
received In the nnval reports, and 1 tin
derstHiid these reports have been made
public." ho said. "Full! we know all the
facts I cannot dlscusa the attitude of the
Uovcrnment."
Tho State Department already sees
vitnl questions Involved, such as the vio
lation of Oernuiny's pledge to the Fulled
aifm under the very eves of the Admin
istration, the establishment of n form of
blockade which Is contrary to interna
tional law and the presence In American
waters of Uermnn II boats.
It Is explained that tho loss of Ameri
can liven Is now the chief concern of this
(lovcrnment. This would menu another
crisis with Oermnny similar to the Sus
sex affair, with diplomatic, c unxUcatloerr
nruteats nnd further diplomatic notes, 11
course the Administration de'lres tn
avoid.
Americans In llnnucr.
nntc Department ntllclals are most
concerned about the Stepliano case for
two reasons. She was a passenger ship
carrying Americans and she was coming
Into nn American port. Her ilestruc
Hon loom up as a direct ihilleiige
of President U'lls.in's contention that
passenger ships nnd In fact nil ship"
with Americans on board must be spared
by the Oerman t'-bonts. The further
fact that she was making for nn Amer
ican port precludes any contention on
tho part of (ieriimuy that she was car
rying contraband lo the enemy,
The question hns nso cninii up ns lo
whether this Ciovcrnment will protest to
(iermnnv agalnut lh presence of sub
marlnea In the steamship lanes outside
1ne1ican Inn burs, Tho preencu of
llrltbh warships near American ports
was objected to In these terms by Sec
retary Lansing:
"As his Majesty's Ciovemment Is
nware. this Oovernnient h is always
regarded the practice nf belligerent
citilsets patrolling American coasts In
close prnximKy to the ternti'iTil wnleif
uf the United States anl making tho
neighborhood a station for their obser
vations as Inconsistent with the treat
ment to b expected from the naval ves.
seln of a friendly Power In time of war
and has maintained ttt the cansequrnt
menace of such proceedings to tho fri..
dom of American commerce Is vuxritinns
and iincourtc.iua to tho L'n'ted Htalvi."
HUGHESSlTEliTl)Nu" BOATS.
Siih Hp llos N Desire to Moibiir
rxss Hip AdinlnUlrntl
Mr. Hughes was asked yesterday In
New ink for his views with regaid to the
present submarine situation. He refused
to discuss II. He said that he was not
In control of oflliinl agencies aiid was
not III li'i'elpt of 11lllel.1l lllfunn llliHI.
Mr. Hughes said further that he bud
no desire In embarrass tho Administra
tion in dealing with any current matter
an to ulilt h U10 Administration hud sol
responsibility.
V
.
PrrsidiMit Assures Country
He Will Insist on "Com-
plete Fulfilment."
BIT CANNOT DOVBT
BERLIN'S (U)OI) FAITH
Will Wait for Facts Before
Talviii"' Action in
Any Crisis.
t-til. N. .T., !ct.
I.OMI ItltAt-t
9. Pi est-
dent WII-1111. who.te attention tu-day was
centred nltmt entirily upon oflleln! re-'
ports concerning tin; torpedoing of mer
chantmen by Herman submarines near
the Atlantic mast three mile limit, nn
iiouiued this afternoon that ho will hold 1
the Oerman Government to a "complete
fullllment of It. promises to tho Gov-j
eminent of the Pnlled States" In regard)
to warning allied mervhint vessels nnd
pnservliig the lives of those on board
before sinking the ships.
The President, who denied hjmself to I
callers and to newsp.ipsr correspondent", !
wns occupied In the morning with the
study of r ports received from the N.ivy
rnd the State departments In Washing-J
ton concerning the operations nf the Oei
man submarines off Nantucket yculer. J
dify 1
He granted nn Interview In the after
noon to Count von Itcrnstorff, tho Gor
man Ambassador. In which he discussed
various phases of the submarine sltui
Hot.. This Interview, however, had been
arranged before yesterday's develop
ments. It was itnni'Unccd to-nlsht tha
the President had summoned Secretary
of St.ve Laming, with whom he will go
over aspects of the eiibniarlno situation,'
President's .lsi tement.
The attitude of the Presldeir. was In
dlcnted In the stntement which he Issucit
nt 1 o'.iiK u this nfiernoon thnuv.ii Sc
retnry Tumulty. The statement frllnvv..:
The tlovernment will of coursb firs:
Inform Itself as to nil the facts that
there may be no dotiht or mlstaku ..'i
far ns they aro concerned. The coun
try may rest assured that the German
Government will Iki held to the com
plete fulfilment of Its promises to the
Government of tho United States. I
have no right now to question Ita will
ingness to fulfil them
Anxietv conceniing the possibility -of
the devetoi.ment of a critical situation
nit of the submarine events of yester
day was manifested this morning by ,
otllclals nt the executive oltlces tn As
bury Pnrk and nt Shadow Ijiwn. the
President's summer home. At that hour.
however, there was n' definite news and 1
the nnxlety was really a praycrtui nope
that thele would be no iiiiiowhui uc- i
velopment.
I
II. ..lei. Ile.inrl..
During the moinlng, howevet, word
w-.ns i-eeelved from Secretary Daniels of I
the Navy, who sent a preliminary report
to the President that advices s(( rar rc -
eelve.l '.ndloalid that all tile rules of .
It,l.,n-,llnn,,l u-.i-fnrn hnd hei.n COIIinlled
--- ----- -
with ny the I'OiiM anneis o: me tirrm.m
F boats. The Secretniy. hovyever. In- '
formed t'ie president that all the ieport
were urn in nnu nun meio ...in ,.u
';heKla;!ie"y lessened
'ToVWk0 .,ao,!n ZXl
. ii ut ,i.tkii..,i mi from
port concerning the Kingston
Tew anl noon in
so i.i w lint mid ut
secieiary iiiimiuy ii.io u,i-uv,i uu i.',i.
'..... .. li....i i iv,.. .
... ,.f t ii . i 'ri sidpn t s attlttiite vvus i
statement of tho President .s attiuiuo
made nubile. At 2 o'clock President
Wilson received Ambass utor von Hem
storft for fifteen minutes, the story of
that visit being told In another column.
The Ambassador was smiling when he
"Tfetnl tre reporters at tho rates of
Shadow Liwn following the enll nnd he
wasconfldi nt that his Government would
keep the promises tilrendv nude to the
Ameilcan Government.
The President took nn nutfiniotiiie iiuei
shmtly after h's talk with the German
Aiiiuassauor, aim upon iriuinuiK m- i.-ir-
phoned to Secretary of Slate Lansing !
and Invited him to spend to-inoirow and
to.inoiiivw nlgnt nt mimiiow i.awn. 1 ne
President and his Secretary or state
undoubtedly will go over ever;.' phase of
the submarine situation.
IMVOY SEES WILSON.
lleril.lorir's llifprvli-vv IIpIIpvpiI tn
Hmvp ItPliilcd tn Pence.
Count JoV.Bim von lternstoiff. Iho
German AmbaHsador, arrived here yes
teiday morning from Washington pre
liminary to 11 trli to tho l'lesldent'n
summer homo at Iiong ltranch, accord
ing to arrangements made prior to the
arrival of the P-53 at Newport nnd her
subsequent depredations upon merchant. I
men outside ine tin cu mite 1111111.
Ills ivill upon President WINon, In
view of tho s,virtllng events of Satur.
dny nnd Sunday, nssunied a greater slg
plllcaiice than usual, even tliotigh it wns
tho llfth call on tho President mado by
the Ambassador, either olllelally or so.
dally, since the beginning of tho Kuro
pean war. The Interview lasted Just
fifteen minutes to the second Ambas
sadors are very p-irtlcular tho Ambas
sador at riving nt Shadow Lawn at two
minutes brfrtre ti o'clock and leaving nt
thirteen minutes lifter.
Kti'iiiing Mienrp was m uniiillieii con
,er,g the call. It was ,at,l that tlm
only object for which the Interview was
iirringed vv.'iafnr the 1 lei man Amb.issa.
dor to present an tiiilogrnph letter from
Hie Knlsor beailng on the I'ullsli relief
"Itusilon perhaps It was brought over
by the P-,.3 but that the Prestdent
had, Ituideiiliillv, discussed hi Icily tho
operatlors of tho snbniai lues off Nan
tucket. Of those activities the Anibassa.
dor profes.sed tiller Ignorance except
what ho trail rend In the newspapers,
Humors of Pence Tnlk. '
II was admitted that much ground
can be cnveml In llflenit minutes, pspe.
linlly when nil the preliminaries are ar
ranged iieioieiianiu ine presentation nri nllldavlt staling Hint In PJlii h "en
of the U-lter from tho Knlscr would re-lti-ieil Into the employ of the United
quire but 11 few seionds, and as the, states us a Justice of th Supreme
nivoy had nu exclusive factM nbout tlm Court" nnd that this had kept htm away
I from his New Turk domicile, the Hotel
Continued on J'Atnl Pope, Astor, until last summer.
litn aBBH if T T aaBBBBm
.1 j93HQ
'llatasuiaWytaKiafc.ii.'iiiiiMBy Q
Photograph by Central Nes s Mm tee,
Capt. Hans Rose, commander of the German war submarine
U-53. This photograph was taken in Newport, R. I., last
, Raturdav
I
r " " -.
ALLIES DEMAND DETENTION
OF VISITING U
i Memorandum to Neutrals Declares Reception of German
.
Submarines at Ports
ment Furnishes
I.viiov i-i... .. t ..I .1..
.-m. .'-iiw iexi oi inojanu pstaiuisn incu- national .naracter.
11,1 iimraniiuin rn ently sent by the Allies
to neutral tlnvernmonts respecting thei
'
admission of belllcerent mlinin ln.. Inti.
I "
."" waters or porta Is os follows ,
"In view of the develunineiit of soli.
marine
navigation and by i enson of acts, .f1" fr "' ,,n",' wlJh nn i;i'""-tunltj- completed." Admiral Gli.ues eatd. "All
In thep.esont clrrumstiiices may f'.T r,',".t !",", 'Plcnl-lmiftit nf Its sup-I , , that were on tho wre.k.il vcu
lortunately rM'ected fiun. enimv ' ' ''V furn.hes such addition o ,t..H nri. .;lf, tlll0 ,, BC4.,..t. nu
rlues. ,he alllol liuvernments ,,. n- ' l'h '"""r,, J, SJ .' ",Jl,rv ",,J U" '"'"ern have been oi-
nnu.h. In
. ,,.,
..1 .
r iiiiiiii.i ,-r. Illl- i.llll-ll I ,.l l-rill!1.TIT M .i.tlla
-liter It neiessnry, In cider not onlv to
safeguard their bclllseieut rights 'and
utfi ty of commercial navigation, but to
'J" -llaput-. o u.bc neutral
lavom risKS oi uispuie. to uige neutral
! i0"'"? '"" "len"lr"'
I af I . Z .'" relVnt.'i r beillg ent'slibma!
V prcir n in, itrix y n ill Hlinm-
i-in,, vessels, ivhntever the inifimse in . .. ., - . . ,
. . ' . " ' "",ll," ie puipose io.0f vessels of war. or merchant vessel?,
they are put from making ti-e of
neutial waters .road-, te ads and norts.
... , . , - ,,,. i ...v.. ,j-.m... ill iii.-iii. ..i. j i:-
ii the iis.) of submaiine vessels the, iiK,Mr, si,nmrlne entering a neutral
application of the principles of the law , ,,ort h, uu r. detained there,
of nations Is nfteeted by special, nnd i "The allleil Governments tnke this
novel conditions! First, by the fact that I opportunity to point out to the neutral
these vessels can navigate nnd reninln at , Powers the grave danger Incurred bv
sen submerged nnd rnn thus pm-h pe nil tieutral submarines In the navigation of
control and observation. Second, by the I regl ns frequented by belllgeient sub
fact that It Is Impossible to Identify them ' marines."
STANDARD OIL MEN STRIKE.
,
Nenrlv :t,nno Out In Ilayuune B.111I
Piillco IVnr Hints.
A strike was declared last night by
employees of the Standard Oil Com- j
piny's plant at ltayonno following the
company's refusal to grant demands for
wago Increases of from 20 to 30 per
cent. Gut of ."i.fiOO employees at thei"""' '"lie limit or Aliieiican wafers.
plant about 3.OP0 are In the strike move.
ment. At a late hour Inst night the
riayonne ollce worn expecting trouble
and were prepared to meet It.
It was nald nt thu plant that there
was nil enough In the tanks to last two
months,
.,i.iiii-.iinii.iii,.iv.rii.i.-. inn. 1 yii-ii- ,
tv.second street, was niled with strikers
at a meeting last night. There were
I.SOO Inside, or outside Irving to ir.t In.
Mydnsh s hall, nt Avenue I' nnd Twen
I, Son inHlilp, or outnldo trln? to km In,
ii-li.n (Im ulrlLA vntu wiu tul.-mi t.flir .
,.,,. from ,1( m(.tll(r M,, ,,,,
told by Sunt. George It. Hcnmssy that
the company would not meet their de. 1
mauds, It wns said that a strike would '
also be called nt the Itaj way plant near
Kllrnbrth. '
Mr. Hennessy snM Inst night that the 1
cnmmlttrn of strikers represented only a
small group of employees. '
HUGHES FIRST TO REGISTER.
tins tn Give tllldavlt llcfore
ih
Will Itepntiip Voter llrrp.
The first person 10 register yesterday
' '. " ' 1 .
the Third election illstrlet of tho,
I .".- -,-.,,.,
cimrleK !:. Hughes. Mr. Hughes, drlv-
lug fiiini Ills hunibiimi'U r.s at the AMor
111 nip l.lllll'U ill il'i I. Hliui in. line, ine
registration place for tho dixit let, found
several persons In lino ahead, of I1I111
wailing tor tlm nouns o open 1 1 ey nn-
mediately Mcppcu anue lor 11 tn, iieputy , reduction of tlm weight of the loaf Is
KIcctlons .superintendent 11 Connor anil ; H,1(1W1, , a ,.,.,., lMU(l ,.,, . , . ,
W; e;cro,nh;:o.r,i:a;;:is,l,;!i,;h , viTUKW" ot ,,,b n,Wu
Irrr r.
t V "no 'inrai'M.' e" l the price has risen New
1 1. 1.1 111 tn answeilng the ,.safues.
tlous, was obliged to tile with the board
BOAT RAIDERS
for Rest and Replenish
a Naval Base.
i. .,.......,. ., .I
"uewier neiiiiai or oeiiiKereiii. rum-
l,'u:illt "r """-combatntit. nnd to remove
tlit Piiriiirlfv f.n liiiilit Itiii.n ttt In tltf
. . . "
oaiiire 111 siKii vessels.
"It may further bo said that nny plaoi
vhli h provides a suliiiiarlti" warship!
. wl
m ... . ....
, ' '"' "'"""'"' """"
gives, a nase in navai operations.
"In view nf the state of nlTalrs thuj
lnp oilnlon that soln
! snnuh? I,.- . xclud d fro
tilMUen" T
Minv (,f ,Mt r'Kurdim
.h' opinlo'n ihlu siilunarino vVui
un the benellt of
recoKI,IZed by the':"' . ' ' . ' . , 1 ' ..V"
gard.ng tho admission
,Min ueutial unlets, roadstead or ports
,....i n...i. .,.i i.. ,i .... i.i.
CRUISER WARNED 0LAF.
Warship, supposed tn Hp I'reneh,
Wnn Off .lere Const,
A French cruiser, supposed to ho the
Coiide, sMke the Danish ste unship Olaf,
In yesterday finm llrltlsh llunduras. oft
the New .lersev eo.ist nu MiiiiH 1.. nirin
( and warned her that a German sub-
, marine was oponitlng Just outll the
1110 cruiser wns going east at ton
speed. She was recently reported In the
Ilahamns, wheie. It is said, there ale
moie than llfty big and little war vessel.
of the AIIUs.
F0KKER NEARLY KILLS PRINCE,
, . ...
trlpplcs III. Aeriuilnne. but Amer -
,. l,it,,r -..p.
. "'r i....rs.
fpirlal lutilr ItfiHiteh to Tin: St v
LiiNf.iiN. Oct. V, Norman Prince, one
or the American aviators with the I'reneh
aimy, has had a nanow escape, Flying
alono over tlm trenches last Friday lie
" attacking hum German aeroplane
when u big Foklicr plane dived upon
his machine from behind and fired an
explosive bullet from Its gun which shot
away half of the lower wing nnd cut
two support stuys of the upper p'sne
Pilnce volplaned to the ground behind
the Flench line.
Waller Low-ill of Huston and Lclf
llariiay nf Long Isl ind, two other Amer
icans with the Fiench aimy, were Ine.
vetted nil' pilots to-diiv. H ru'.d Willis
Is doing tlie limit teat for pilot's lank.
'trnr.n utiitt?ctv n, vreu, n
IIAVI il AVIVT lUAJi,
, j.,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,, with Other Cities
Shown In Federnl Statistics.
WAHiiiKivrn.s-, Oct. !'. A steady In.
,.,,, , , ircc (,f m.t..(( .,..,.. ho
I .V ,D'' .?"'- 'I' "'3 ? "".
111 1916, The range of prices In cents In
somu cities follows:
City, If Ii,
Chicago f. 2
Clniinnutl I. J
Mbineiipiilia (.11
New Vurk, , , (.1
St. I ."HI I I.'.l
tiasrrtuucujco.,,.,' f.l
nil. ISIS. tH.
f'.:i ,, r..s
11 .1 . r 1
t.n f, s 5.;
t,. 0.1) 6,9
f..n t.3 r,.T
' r,I M
German Suhniarine War
fare Off F.S. Ends as Ab- ,
ruptly as It Started. J
1
jNANTCCKET LKJIITSHI1'
1 HAS I) VESSELS LOST,
Wireless of a Thousand
Ports and Ships Asks
About V Roat.
1 4 i-x Him 1 limvnuvii
STARTS AN INQCIRVT
Rumor That Ri? Hubmersi-
ble Has Companion
in Devastation.
Nkvvpoiit, It. T.. Oct. 9.--ncrinany'
submarine warfare tn American water
hfiM stopped ns abruptly ns It started.
I Pliico ! o'clock lust nlslit. when thei
Inst of the six tnerohant ships known
j to haw been sunk, went iluivn .loo
fathoms n few miles off Nantucket ,
Lightship, nothing has been lie.m! nf
tho P-J3 niul tho oomtude subinersllilc,
( which may lmvp tisslstcil her In tho
( ferocious raid which Iihh won for her
Ihi notn do guerre" ".Mini JJor of tho
Sen." Allied orniseis arrived off tho
lightship Inst night, but no report of
their sighting tho raider has been re
ceived. The wireless of n thou i.'i ml ports
and ships), which nit day ycsluiday
nipped out the stoiy of tin CorinuiiK'
polite hut mtirdcroui thrustH, wns Ju-t
an busy to-day, but Its tnes;iRe vv-.s
merely it glowing interrogation n tnt
Where In tin- U-."i3? Has she tinned
homeward, her mission flillllled, or bus
alio merely dropped out for 11 llttlo
Trhlle, to give tho nations 11 few 'no-
mcnt.i fur telleution unit to n r
i 'th '"rpedo tubes n iinVushoa n. v, n
I tlliue the ilevastntlon
The Vrnrcli Co I led dir.
The ten destroyer that rcmiliiel
ff
Nantucket last night and to-day c
.Ing for more survivors of tho siibmailne
episode were recalled by Admiral (ikuv iv
to-night. The Admiral leal tied that the
cr(w nf the Strathdcno had artlviil :n
.N-eVl. York and that everybody from tlm
t" - i ..... a m ... .
crew of the Strut
New York and tin
Klmiston or Ivii
n.iiisiiui in niogsiuiiiiin nail lilllliu
HAfftv nil li triinili nt e.i inshlri limiii,! f,e
the same pmt.
"Tin. ..fieiti n nm .,i,,.,i.,i n io
ueicd in. ilur Interrupted target piac-
tlco will be lesumed t,..m.,er,.w.
Then, w. s u Hurry of ex .-luineiit t.
, ?. , '"iT ?nT.
, i..... ,.., , '
.Vr,, .,' . "
strange siibiu n ine had bicn sighted by
tlshetnien In that vicinity.
l.tr- of (In- .Vctt port ll(.
Why did the German subniai.tio P-JJ
, come lulu New pint hat bur? is 1 lie iias
, Hon discussed wherever naval otllcei-.s
and shipping men met to-day. A naval
olllcer sild: "The mystery Is as deep as
ever. We at first tiguud th.it the F-,Vt
showed herself at Ncwpoit lit urdir ,0
attract the llrltlsh patrol), ng ileet from
Its base at Halifax and so luinilt .in i.
tuck 011 transpoit ships 111 the uioiuh of
tho St. Lawieiiee lliver. Now wo are
all at sea as to why she should have v
vealiil her presence on this sidn of t e
Atlantic If she intended to attiuit cimny
sli'pping,"
ertnln tmv.il men made tight
of the
tliiDortnnc., jittn.li..,i t,. ii... 1....
for mailing to the b inii.i. Ilinbassv b'
Commander itnse to a newspaper ma
1 ney Hid not liellive 1h.1t the letter e
plained tn,. submarine's visit, for in,.
reasoned If 11 was of such Importance
to catls.f thu siibm.iiine 1,, ,-how here. '
It would hnnlly hive bee 1 1 i-ii -t,d 1
rtrnuerr. partieulai ly when fj, t-i,. 1 Mii
slnlg'es.,ll', M' MMMt "s
lli. prrnni on lin.ini ti, sulmmrlno
,, . . ...
I "f 'rlaln M-lins vvas ofTeied :ih sup.
. porting a theory that 1 omnnudcr r.o-e
,.( Nt..porI , n.lv ,.M)l.t.,(.t, ,.
formation.
Tho number of vessels known to hnv
been sunk In ye-, culny's series of ,(.
snults still si inds at sIn. T v Naiiiucl.et
llghtMilp stick- id Its l.el.ef that ,.t ii"
nine went down, but gv 110 na'iie-
defalls. and 011K s, h.ive been lepui. 1
lo the naval .111 h .rities.
The mnttei- .,f whither mon- ;
one suhiiiailue ,!i all the raullne s
a little 1110 1. d, b.iiub:,.. Adm'ra. in,. ,
i-ommniiding Hie I'nited Stales de-ii ,
llutllla, to 11 hum every sirap of nr. .
Information has come. I- inclinei'
think that the L. 53 did her Job a o'
Tvvn sinlmmri,,,.. Miireleil.
No report to the contrary b b
! !"v' " "!,y. m '"'"
milt - .
, 'HI I lO I'llHK MUVV h 111 C
, see that no rieiilinlity law nr ctiuom w m.
li'f'inged upon, 11 1 y." in tin vr f
, lllgu I HIIK lllfl'l'llv iill'i, clil W " .
lllc woiK nt Ailinli'.i. Un !i:. conitii-, X'
Ing llli- Newpoil 11,1V. 11 dm nei. Mi-p, s
that there were two siilm' iirtes a u
sengcr on the Stiphini w in q.i'iled s
having sicu the i,umeral.-i til in l,, !
tern uu tlm stibni'ii Inc.
OllUers of at least two of the sm.l 1 ,
ships believe they saw two, r, it 1 . h
they are not positive about ti i'bi. o- -positive
authorities 011 th.s po nt are
crew nf the ll.shlng selionner ,. ,,e
Nathan, which was sunk in "'! si, 1
wilh tho steamship Hairy Link
on Satuiibiy and who -p.-ut 1
marn.iued mi the Nan, 1, l.el I u j,
Theso seventeen 111(11 agiei 1 11 y
from the llgll'shlp a while si nn,
tho U-5S. and another, 'i i' ! gi i
one, .which wuj ul.j uuaci.iut; wsclt,
I
