NIGHT
EXTRA
itmtmg
'FINANCIAL Et)ITIOTsT
ffieiner
VOL. HL-NO. 123
rilXLADBIiPIILV, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1010
Cortitenr, ItiB, it Tm rosuo Linon Coiiriat
BROOKLYN SCORES RUNS
IN THIRD AND FOURTH
CUTSHAW'S HIT
SENDS DAUBERT
OVER THE PAN
Brooklyn Gets Three Men
On With One Down in
First Frame
JACK COOMBS IN THE BOX
Big Crowd Witnesses Third
Game of Series at Ebbets
Field
By CHANDLER D. JIICIITER
EBBETS FIELD. Brooklyn. Oct. 10.
SY - iJ&KQ uauueri uwrru mo iirei run ui mo
third fame of the world's series at Ebbets'
Field today In tho third Inning. Maya,
Oarrlgan's cholco for mound duty, had
Deobert three and two when the Dodger's
feet baseman shot a Blngle to right.
He. went to second on Stengel's drlvo
sad scored on Culshaw's dingle. Jack
Coombs was In the box for the Robins.
' Brooklyn pot threo men on In tho first,
let failed to score.
FIRST INNINO
Hooper up. Strike 1 (called). Ball 1
, (lew). Ball 2 (wide). Hooper- filed to
Whet Janvrlnup. Hall 1 (high). Jan
vrln -ut, Mowrey to Daubert. Shorten up.
Bill 1 (low). Ball 2 (wide). Strike 1
(Mlltd). Strike 2 (called). Shorten slneled
if ever second. Iloblltzell up. Ball 1 (low).
I hcblltiell singled to right, and Shorten wnii
E Wt trying to reach third, Stengel to Mow-
.reir. ro runs, two hits, no errors, one left.
Myers up. Strike 1 (called). Strike 2
(sitssed). Boll 1 (low). Mv tmn Mf
l' by a pitched ball and went to first. Daubert
? ,op. Ball 1 (low), Baubcrt got an Infield
stalle, attempting to sacrifice, nnd Mvers
i went to second. It was DaUbcrfs first hit
. f 'the series. Stengel un. Stengel out on
t sacrifice, Stays to Hobby. The play ad-
l YSnCcd Mvers tn thlrrl nnii nmiH..., ......
Feel' Wheat up. Ball 1 (very wide). Ball
Mroy, very wide). Ball 3 (wide). Ball 4
(vide). Wheat walked. Ho was wnlkprf on
:, pjrjwse. Cutshaw up. Cutshaw forced out
mjtrw ai me plate, Hobby to Thomas. It
f M a brilliant play. Mowrey up. Ball 1
(wMe). Strike 1 (called). Ball 2 (low).
Bt'ril'A 2 ltnn TJ..1I 1 t ....,
L Mowrey fanned. No runs, one lilt, no
B,, wroni, mree left.
W -.
., oiii.u.o INNING
, Irfwls up. Ball (low). Strlko 1 (called),
lewis out on a fly to Myers. Gardner up.
. u i tlow and wide). Gardner out on n
ty to Cutshaw. Scott up. Scott lived
M Wheat. Wheat made a remarkablo run-,
sing catch. No runs, no hits, no error
, left
OlSOn Un. niann' n,. C. .- rr.i...
HWV up. Ball 1 (low). Strike 1 (called).
' KflW 2 (miss). Strike 3 (fan). Miller
nk out Coombs up. strlko 1 (called),
jpul I (low), Coombs out, Scott to Hobby.
M runs, no hits, no errors, none left
THIIID INNINO
'(toaid.r n.ii . ? A e x lcaed). Ball I
ueuae). Ball 2 (low). sink ? rrn
SrtkaV t.71 ? UyJ Cutshaw. Mays up.
,ffilg5S); V (w,de)' Dn
fiitsfann"16,, mlM)' Strlke S mls).
fiJS?.TneL "f r H. P 1 (wide).
Ml B.i7 1 7v. J r "" case. Janvrln
''Zsiwh ,',sn and w,de- " 2 (hlsh
flfctah.,,vnooper out dealing. Miller to
J- No runs,one hit, no errors, none
v. .. ... . .
-fcSJy t ir Si. ,K0 caed). Myers out.
1 flow) n.Vii, - , amm (fnn' Ba
Ktkt'nm. t,T . ma aecona nil
?? MT.8.- ?.,.en "P. Strike 1 (foul).
K WUnbert . olen"' "'"Blea to left send.
l'U4M)rtSec.on'1' Wheat up. Strike
t 6lSw u o??. out " n "y t" I-owls.
I ) Vn , S, rlke X (called). Ball !
rld BiVT. - ,uw "" ciose). Cutshaw
d2,,kL" ."rtt field foul line. scor.
: mwi'J'. r.LIL""'".0' h came.
B o4, h.'n ,,"'"" u" -uisnaw went to
9 W.v o.Mth..Dnubert Mowrey un.
7oW0two,0,X nerU,V
HYiTTrj'niT k...
1.. '" mru
. Tf"nn un. Rtriv. 1 . ..
E fly to .-"1 ?a"e'. Janvr n
JhJ).B,.? Shorten up. strike
u 'I,"1! l (Wide). Strike 2 ffn,.n
Hi ', '??. over third. HobbV i
". Mlllir to n ',' Hh?f f" "t trying to
OX to Mver- v U()W, ,,obl''
. non. lf, yer8' No run". on" hit. no
I UD. Olann ....... . .
'. nd whin n'l,1 Ben on a bunt
lliu.n'n Gardner threw wild to
V. Oli?r 21L0" Mays to
. ortd on coomh. ' , ,Coo'nbs up.
fr' "P.,. My. ?mba "Insle to right
bkfc. 1"'.r" out on a sacrlflca. m
Ball iT B0'nf. 5 "Pond. Daubert
W., D.wEr7..1,S.'i5toWt8Wk. X
wt.:;"""1,10 o.
theWeather
: --g vmttSr
-!NOTH p iuy
,VMa.a IW .
Mi -WH.,I!,
-li:."watta.:.Wa
Hm . .-"-Miu HTHKUT
W..IH.24 h. iu.: r"
l ..- ' 1 a 1 4 .
ySiUftLLi ,
-.-r
SCOTT SPRINTING TOWARD THIRD BASE
sss
! r iimi 1 11 iiiiiiiiimiMMMIllMW iu
I 1 11 111 m 11 m , pi . , 1 1 t, ,1 1 ni, i n.itTfMBjWWWWWtWHHBIiBiiiiBiiiiWiBMiWiB.i
1 n n ni".TiVwwvyfatt.y.-Htf.
-WWIlJ
ZT2ZSSM2SISSS2
... ""wM,m""jo'-"--jl- i t 1 1 , n 1 ifnt. t tth -t- .TasT S) ,y ?-w-j -vw ,yi if tYifraw
of m, t? 1 cap ' SI"T.pc 11 1 c f?."rth lnnin ot ysterday's (fame nt Braves' Field, Boston, shows Scott,
p V..V. ..v.. UUA, tuuiiiii; uiiraun nis ione inpic. no eventually scored on Kuth'a infield out. Umpire QulKley
is seen on tho right, Larry Gardner is on the coaching line, Mowrey is covering third and Olson is seen at short.
FANS SHIVER AS
PENNANT WINLERS
FIGHTF0R TITLE
Only 1000 Empty Seats in
Great Stadium Owned
by Charles Ebbets
ALL ARE ENTHUSIASTIC
By ROBERT V. MAXWELL
KBBKTS FIKLD, Brooklyn. N. Y., Oct
10. The Brooklyn fans have lost faith In
Hobble's HoMns or tho ticket speculators
wero beautifully htung this afternoon, for
more than 1000 Beat3 wero unoccupied when
the third contest of th eWorld's series was
put, on at KbbeU'EieldiqJX&&Mma folks
were huddled up In heavy wraps and shiv
ered through tho game.
Jnwn Coombs, our well-known Iron Man,
Kteimcd on tho mound In the opening Inning
nnd had a narow escapo when a pair of
healthy drives to the outfield resulted in
nothing but n thrill, poor baso running pre
venting any Boston scores.
Brooklyn's opening salute to Carl Mays
was very sincere, and It took but a few
minutes for the bases to become crowded.
Mays looked very bad, starting tho Inning
by hitting HI Myers and allowing Jake
Daubert to beat a bunt.
Stengel sacrificed and Whent was Inten
tionally passed. Cutshaw, however, hit
to Hobby and Myers perished at the plate.
Mowrey lost another chance to be a hero
whon ho fanned and retired the side.
This was a great day In Brooklyn. It was
tho first time that a world's scries was
ever staged In the rubber plant town. There
was plenty of enthusiasm un the streets,
but the fans didn't turn out thick enough
to fill the Ebbets auditorium, which wilt not
seat more than 30,000. It was real football
weather much better for tho gridiron game
than for baseball, and overcoats were a
blessing.
Tho thermometer dropped thirty-nine de
grees during the night, and It was a brisk
wind that blow over Flatbush this morning.
About a dozen bugs braved the elements
and remained outside the ball yard all
night. When tho bleacher gate was opened
at 9 o'clock there were about 1000 souls on
hand. Speculators were few and far be
tween. The sun shone shone brightly as the
day progressed and tho chill was pretty
well taken out of the air when the game be
gan. LANNIN DISMISSES RILEY
HEALTH CHIEF ORDERS BATH
FOR WOMAN; FIRST IN MONTHS
Neighbors 'Will Force Mrs. Herrick Into
Tub "Too Fat," Excuso
DECATUB. 111., Oct. 10. Mrs. John
Herrick will take a bath today under
penalty of being compelled to do so by a.
force of women under orders of Health
Commissioner J. F. Mattes.
Mrs. Herrick. who admitted she had not
taken off her dress for two months, said
she was too fat to bathe unaided and her
husband was too lazy to help her.
POSSE SEEKS "BIG MAN"
ACCUSED OF ATTACKING
GIRL AT C0ATESVILLE
HELLENIC REBELS
WILL WAGE WAR
UPON BULGARIANS
Revolutionists Determined
on New Policy, Ex-Premier
Venizelos Announces
DECIDE TO IGNORE KING
Five-Year-Old Child Uncertain
'About Assailant Was
Dragged Into Woods
Near Home
FATHER LEADS SEARCH
Secretary of Red Sox Greatly Surprised
at the Action .
BOSTON1, Oct, 10. Secretary Edwin I
Illley, of the ned Sox, today received a let
ter from President J. J. Lnnnln, of that
club, now In Brooklyn, that "his services
were no longer required."
The letter of dismissal from the world's
champions' owner was like a bolt from a
clear sky both to the fans and Illley.
1'iesldent Lnnnln gave no explanation In
his letter and Illley refused to comment be
yond the fact that If any statement was
forthcoming It would be from the lied Sox
office.
VALUE OF HONEST ADVERTISING
Officer of Associated Clubs of World
Addresses Chamber of Commerce
at Luncheon
ir, J. Klnner. of. the Indianapolis Chamber
of Commerce, und secretary of the vigilance
committee of the Associated Advertising
Clubs pt the World, today addressed the
Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce at the
first ot their luncheons held In thtlr head
quarters In the Wldene.r Building.
He saldr "Advertisers should drpp IU
legal nnd dishonest advertising, as nothing
was gained by this means of advertising
except trouble." In speaking of recent In
vestigations that had been. made by the
association of which he is secretary, Mr.
Klnner paid many persons who advertised
did not re'lly I"10 that Ul'lr rtle
ipenta were Illegal nd that Ky case
whWi would have eventually ended In the
court kad beq sUlt4 without, any IsgaJ
Rip iy wwv f "7, i V T
UMoeumon are p ?
throughout the tfmud HtMe
Five-year-old Mary Valoska, victim of
an attack near her home In Siberia, a for
eign settlement on the outskirts Of Coates
ville, can only lisp feebly that "a big man
hurt her In the woods near the Chequered
bridge."
.She Is unablo to Bay positively whether
her assailant was a negro or a swarthy
white man. She remembers only that she
was dragged Into tho underbrush away
from her playmates late yesterday and
mado the victim of Ill-treatment.
Mayor Jones and the police authorities of
Coatesvllle, reinforced by private guards
from the steel mills, are seeking the child's
assailant They have only the little girl's
meager and varying description of the man
to guide them, and a night-long search vig
orously maintained has been unproductive.
In the course of their hunt, shortly after
the child was found unconscious beside a
clump ot bushes, a foreigner, who looked
like a laborer, was encountered. The man
was out of breath and greatly excited.
He was questioned, but explained his
agitation by saying he had been stealing
apples and was running away from the
owner of the orchard. He was allowed to
go free at the time, the searchers believing
then that a negro was responsible for the
attack upon the girl.
Today, when the little victim's condition
had Improved somewhat she said she was
not positive whether her assailant was a
negro or not
The place where the child was attacked
lies along the roadside between Worth
Brothers' mill and the Lancaster pike. It
Is not far from the viaduct mills on the
edge of Coatesvllle, and Is known as
"Siberia" from the number of foreigners
who live in the vicinity.
Mary and several companions were play.
Ing near the bridge yesterday. Suddenly
she disappeared. They reported her absence
to her parents and her father, Joseph Val
osky, with some of his neighbors, set out
to hunt for her. They found her senseless
on the ground, her clothing torn to shreds,
and her body bruised and bleeding.
An alarm was given and the Coatesvllle
officials at .once organized a hunt for the
assailant The woods in the neighborhood
were beaten through and nil railroad sta
tions and possible exits from the city put
under watch.
The chlld'd condition today It still serl
pus, according to the physician attending
her. Her father Is frontip with rage and
grief and Js accompanying the police
searching parties,
DR. It. W. DEAVER UNDER KNIFE
Germantown Phyiielan Operated on by
Brother Condition Improves
Rapidly After Ordeal
Df. Richard W Dft,Yr, of eiW Main
street, OermaptowB, wb U couhIb
physician at the qrm4ws.l Hospital and
a woxner vt ihv. mm.rrr Joih m.
Heaver, underwent supap of
German Hospital ,Ut aJmki,
Mtorfwuion reeeivt wwr.
was operated u by Ma
John B Deaver. wke i Um
at the aetata UwIUt
at km at the
n tg
t rWa.vsr'
otir, or.
a .
1 .
:f..
1
BERLIN, Oct. 10. The War Office
admitted, this afternoon that the Allies
have achieved small successes near
Scoclcver, in Macedonia. On the Rus
sian front Prince Leopold's forces
stormed and captured the tlllajrcof
Herbulerv. Strong Anglo-French at
tacks north of the Somme were re
pulsed. . .
SALONICA, Oct. 10. British troons
are continuing their advance against
the Bulgers and have occupied Kalen
dra and Homondos, it was officially an
nounced today. It is reported that the
enemy has evacuated Topalova and is
falling back upon the hills northwest of
Seres. British cavalry and patrol
parties have been active on the Doiran
front.
BERLIN, Oct 10. Teutonic forces
engaged in driving the Rumanians from
Transylvania have won new victories,
the War Office announced this after
noon. The Teutons have captured the gate
way leading from Hargltta through the
Carol Mountains into the upper and
lower Csik region. In the battle that
preceded the fall of the city of Kron
stadt, 1175 Rumanian prisoners and 25
cannon were captured.
Teutonic forces operating west of
Vulkan Pass have captured the Negru
lut Mountain. '
Greek revolutionists, headed by for
mer Premier Venizelos, will declare
war on Bulgaria in the name of the
provisional government Announce
ment to this effect was. made by M.
Venizelos on his arrival at Salonlca.
Whllo the Austro-Germans under
Falkenhyn are sweeping back the Ru
manians in Transylvania, the Allied
armies in Macedonia and on the- Struma
and Vardar fronts are continuing 'their
advanco on Monastir. Heavy Russian
reinforcements are expected to halt
Falkenhayn's successes, however.
Heavy fighting is proceeding In Vol
hynia and Gallcia without substantial
results on cither side.
Artillery on both sides was very ac
tive south of the Somme last night, it
Was officially announced by Paris to-
Contlnofd en !' Tour, .Celiunn In
,
SPARK STARTS COTTON FIRE
Fourth Blaze in Six Months at Plant
In Northeast
Fire, said to have, been started by a
spark from a picking; machine, damaged
hel plant of Fred T. Wool ft Co., Churh
and Taoony streets, today to the extent of
JBOSO, According to the police. It is the
fourth" fire the company has had In the
last six months.
The fire started on the second' floor, .where,
hundreds of tons of' ttfl, wool, rags and
hair wer aUwed, These sobered and
aused aktuda of, sntaJte,' whloM handicapped
Mta Bremen. Fdtlcesaaa Robert tWt, .at
he JfraBklord sjatloja, was Injured, ktat
a. al 'way t the ra. 4i atlnjud aa it
to beard' a U, a. T'tmiw -
fell, ad kM era dMmtad,
Ha tskei u Um VrtoUert MjitaJ.
Latest sports
BOSTON A. K...
BROOKLYN n.l.
0 0 0 0 0'2
0 0 112 0
Maysrmd Thomas j Coombs nnd Miller. "Umpires, .O'Day, TJcuind
the mi; Connolly, on tho bases; QuTglcy, "left-field foulline; Ulnen,
right-flold flntUlno.
BRITAIN TO TAKE OVER IMPORTATION OF. WHEAT
NEW YOItK, Oct. 10. A cable to Bromhall says thnt the Brit
ish Government 1ms officially anounced thsxt it has 'decided to take
over Uia whole business of importing wheat, the same to be done on
n equitable basis free on board terms, with the light to commandeer
find requisition freights nt its pleasure.
U-BOATS WILL NOT BE BARRED FROM U. S. PORTS
WASHINGTON. Oct. 10. Acting Secretary of Rtnta Polk an
nounced this afternoon that submarines would not be bnmd from
American ports.
.
"TODAY'S WORLD'S SERIES GAME IN DETAIL
(DETAIXS OF FIItST FOUR INNINGS IN COLUMN 1, PAGE 1)
FIFTH INNING Lewis filed to Wheat. Gardner filed to Mow
rey. fioott out, Coombs to Daubert. No runs, no hits, no errors.
SU1130I fouled to Gardner. Whent walked. Cutshaw out, Mays
--to .Hobby.-- Mowrey walked'. 'Wheat nnd -Mowrey scored on Olson's
triple to center. Miller out, Scott to Hobby. Two runs, one 'hit,
ho crrorii, ... ' ' -..
-s&:
' "i' ' Ji '' .
. V' . ! '
f
GREEK SHIP HELD UP TWICE BY SUBMARINES '
NI3W YOItK, Oct. 10. The Greek stcitinship Fatrin reported on
arriving hei today thnt she wna held up twice by submarines yester
day, once nt 0 o'clock in the morning nnd the other time at 4 o'clock
la the afternoon. The steamship was allowed to proceed umuolcstod.
CARRANZA BARS BULL FIGHTS? BANDITS MUST DIE
MEXICO CITY, Oct. 10. A decree signed by General Can-aura,
piohlbltlng- bull fighting and ordering death penalty against bandits'
and highway tobbors, was published in toduy't newspapers.. '
,v
FIRE DESTROYS HACKENSACK BUS SERVICE PLANT
HACKENSACK, N. J.f Oct. 10. Fire early today destroyed the
plant ui' the Jnierboiuugh Bur Borvlce at West Englewood, causing a
lots of 18,000. -?lvo busbca were destroyed.
i
LLOYDS' RATES ON ATLANTIC SHIPPING DOUBLED
LONDON, Oct. 10. Iiihu'mtite rates ou Atlantic shipping were
doubled tuctay by Lloyds as a iciiult u! German bubwarimT activity
off the United States coast'
v t , , , . -
1
SHIP ASHORE-NEAR SANDY H00KJ NOT IN DANGER
. .' .V". -. . .
NIGHT
EXTRA
price onm cnorv
HIS)!
U. S. WILL NOT
SUBMIT TO ANY
PORT BLOCKADE
1
Administration Determined
to Oppose Harassing of
American Coast
LAWFUL, BUT OFFENSIVE
Lansing's Protest of Allld
Cruiser Patrol Recalled bjr
U-Boat Activities "
, NEW YOBK, Oct. ,10. The ,steamhlp'.-P,ensiero,Vbduud Uik
Nortok to New, Ypn'", VPS1'" fjffrouna at ralse.HooJ?; near.Saady
Hooft. ThV yesseHs'ia nofdauger,' j ."" ;.. . ' 4 v " -V. -
WASHINGTON. Oct. 10. The Unite
States will not submit to any operations by'
belligerent warships which would estabkstli
even a seeming blockade of American portal
That decision already has been reached by
the Administration.
Admitting that the operations of the Ger
man nubmarlnc or submarines oft Nan
tucket have brought about a general situa
tion fraught with gravest danger, offlctela
professed to bellevo today that a way out
could be found by the Administration. All
are silent hv nrtl.r of h lv..M,4, mL.
haa directed that no ofllclals discuss tha J '
possible action of tho Government.
Dut very quietly, when alone in their
oftlces or In their clubs, tho men who shape
the military and naval policy ot the nation
declare that. In connection with the latest
developments, thcro la little to choose for
this Government.
Germany's submarine operations hava,
destroyed ships. Uut for' more than a yea ,
It Is pointed out, the entente cruisers hava '
held up and nearched vessels, taken enemy '
subjects off within sloht of American ter-t
rltory. nnd havo chased vessels which were",
on tho blacklist far Inside of tho three,
mile limit.
WARNING FROM ALLIES
Now with tho transfer of submarine ac
tivities to this side of tho ocean a war nine
has come from tho Anglo-French govern.,
ments that American submarines ought to
remain In port or tako tho consequences if
they aro sunk without warning by British
or French warships. And with British and
French warcraft searching for aerman.sub-,
marines, and caeh sldo prepared to slnH th'
other on sight, there Is additional danger
that a submarine commander might rate
take an American craft for an cnpiny and
sink it without warning. Theae, .compli
cations aro noted by ofllclals, who point
out that they aro very real and of such 4
character that the slightest slip on the part
of some naval commander might Immedl.'
ately Involve this nation In the war.
Realizing tlild. officials mv ihnt th. .-
'ministration must maintain tho position to
ward nil of the belligerents that it out",
lined when It protested against the Anglo.
French naval blockade off the Atlanta
coast, At that tlmo Secretary Lansing'
freely admitted that the British warshlaa
were well within their rights under inter
national law. But he said:
The (round for the objection of the
OoTrrnment of the United Stale to the
continued prenence of belligerent vm
et milling- In cloao pmxlmliy t '
American port are baaed, not upon the
Illegality of such artlnn, hut upon the
Irritation which It narsraTIy causes' to
neuirai rouniry.
The rnn.tant nnd menacing- presenea
et crulaer on the lilsli en near the
port of n neutral country may be re
tarded, according to the canons of In
ternational rourteiy, a a Junt ground
for offente, altliouih It may be trlctly
legal.
And ofllclals who know the opinions, of
the President and Secretary Lansing say.
that this Is their present attitude and they,
lookVor a way being found to press a sim
ilar, although stronger, argument home to
the belligerents in an effort to protect tha
Atlantic coast line from conflicts that It to
feared Inevitably must involve the Unite
States. 1
NO WORD OP U-BOATS
No word had been received today frost
the German underseas craft. Ofllclals be
lieve that they either have headed soutk
to evade the pursuit known to have bee
started fir are heading directly east, out
of the regular Meamshlp channel now dot
ted with British and Trench war vessels.
Convinced that1 a "mother ship," probalsly
a special type of very fast vessel, convey
the submarines across the Atlantic to k
them supplied with torpedoes and ovary
thing else needed, naval experts say taatt
the submarines can be expected to dlaaa
pcar for a time. They do not believe that
they have established any base upon Anas,
lean soil, but cruisers and destroyers wtjt
be kept on patrol duty to make sura UM
none Is attempted.
The majority of officials hero believe that
the present raid Is to be followed by nth aw
and on a wider scale, but they do not as
pect any violation of the pledges mada ay
Germany that she will conduct a cruiajaa
warfare under International law af'tWa"'
time. - .
As already haa been pointed east.
sentiment throughout Qermany a far i
sumption of submarine warfare
"enemy vessels," iM tlU aottwTja
eidered cartatn eventually, but'
expected t, make amwunaemsat of
Intention well In advaaee an ea
asaln to reopen the armed Meroaau
queatkm.
16 U. S. DK4TK0YBRS IN
FOR KWGSmVS NU8INU
III. !
British MMiiktMt Was EeportosJ
It U-Jkwt
HHWjowr. Oct. js-a tiMt r
Uaitod aUaUs destroyers left hare to
aak for a boatload ,t saiiurs ireaa
JJstttah fraajUar Kincatoa, Ws) t.
jaawijl-a aw attu mUaiac
fca
