THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
12 PAGES
jfMwurrx, NA, TUESDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 10, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 143
IPS HPT U-53 BUSY
CONG
ESnOH
BOWED
DON I
II! 1 TO
TO BE SENT
HESGEKSDFB
T
I TURNS
10 THE
The Law as it Has Been Laid Down by Entente Allies
4?
BOTTOM
GARFIELD AND KIBBEY AT STADIUM TONIGHT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire formal calls, which pave any indication
NEW ruin", n. I., Oct. 9. The whole- as to what the plans of the U boat
sale raid on foreign .shipping south of commander were.
Nantucket lightship Sunday was thet In many quarters the opinion was
work of one submarine, according to ; expressed that another outbreak of the
r irts of American naval officers. 1 1" boat and her consorts, if she had
Lear Admiral Albert Cleaves, com
manding the torpedo boat destroyer
tloiilla, which did such remarkable
speedy rescue work yesterday, said to
night that the reports of all his officers
agreed that to the best of their obser
vation one raider only was concerned.
This boat presumably was the (ierman
r-r,3, which called at Newport Satur
day afternoon to mail a letter to Am
bassador von Bernsturff and then put
to sea without taking on an ounce of
supplies, although she had !een seven
teen days from her base, according to
the statement of her officers.
Admiral Cleaves said he could easily
understand the positive statements of
the captain of the Nantucket lightship
ami of sailors of the toriiedoed vessels
that more than one submarine wasi
concerned. The U boat, he said, was
ery fast and appeared to have been
handled cleverly. It was easy, he
pointed out. for her to disappear on one
side of a ship and then show up un
expectedly at another spot. Doubtless,
he believed, she had submerged and
reappeared oflen enough Ho mislead
any but a keen professional observer
and to create the impression that more
than one sea terror was operating.
This opinion would seem to be trorne
out by the statements of many of the
refugees that the submarine had more
business on hand than she could take
care of at once, and was obliged to
request one steamer to wait her turn
while another was being put out of
commission. ( Lieutenant Commander
Miller of the destroyer Ericsson, who
witnessed the destruction of the
Stephano. said he was positive that
only otie submarine was in the vicinity
st the time. Today the raiding had
ceased, at least for the moment.
any, would not be surprising. It was
reported by members of the crew of
the steamer Strathdeno that the sub
marine winch sank her had filled her
fuel tanks with oil from the Norwe
gian tank steamer, Christian Kntidsen,
before the latter was sent to the bot
tom, other refugees have declared
that they saw a (ierman supply ship
hovering in the vicinity of the raid
Sunday.
All hough tanks may have been re
plenished from the Norwegian ves
sel, naval officials expressed the
opinion that after a day of sfich re
markable activities as yesterday's, the
submarine must be short of ammuni
tion. Just what st"ps have been taken
by the entente allied patrol fleet to
check further ravages of their ship
ping is not known. The British naval
officials in Canada would not amplify
today their statement of yesterday,
that every necessary means had been
taken
For
knew, the V-W.; might either be on her
way to the eastward to seek once
more to penetrate their mine field
and hostile nets, to get back to her
home port 'if Yvilhelmshaven,
might make her appearance soon
the Chesapeake capes, where
might find more rich prizes.
COMPLICATIONS
BROUGHT OVER
II
APPEflB 1ST
IN THE TOWNS
OF
T
E
or
off
she
Tnc, steamer
known list of the victims of the i;,
a i.... .....!. .i. yeMtertU;
ixidi J t-.uiin.l v ri'HMi.i ii-iiiaiiin til. r i ,
not withstanding reports from the Nan-j
"tucket lightship that three other ships,!
the identity of which could not boi
learned, were sent to the bottom. There'
also was a persistent rumor, without
. r: .! i)nilnu i
t'l nil ill mil, mill ix Miiinu ouinii, line ; . .
of the allied patrols sent to the sub-' " Ume wena(1' diacover;d that
marine zone, had been attacked.
Ten more refueees were landed here
tonight by The Manville, a destroyer
tender, which picked up ten Chinese
members of the crew of the steamer
Strathder.e.
Destroyers swept the waters on a
wide area today in a vain search for
the crew of the steamer Kingstonian
who were' seen by members of the
steamer Strathdcne to take to their
boats before their vessel was sunk.'
K"ar Admiral Knight, commandant of!
the Narragtinsett Hay naval defense!
district, does not appear to lie alarmed i
at the lark of success m finding the
missing men, and saw no reason to
change the, previous reports that the
raid was accomplished without loss of
life. I
It was the commandant's opinion I
that the Kingstonian's crew had been J
picked up by an enstbound steamer!
which did not care to divulge her po
sition to lurkintf submarines by report
in; the fact by wireless. Notwith
standing the lull in submarine activities
today, shipping men were by no means
reassured. If only one raider were
concerned, she might lie waiting only
to replenish her supplies. They be
lieved that this gave rise to a renewal
if reports that elaborate methods of
supplying foreign submarines from
American bases had been perfected.
In order to dli.pose as far as possi
ble of t laims of this sort as applied to
the Narragansett Hay district, William
H. Vtalcott, deputy collector of cus
toms, made a careful Investigation to
day to learn If any merchant marine!
had cleared from Newport Saturday!
or Sunday which m:ght have carried
supplies. Mr. Waleoit found no indi
cation that any such ships had cleared.
Another report iersisting in shipping
circles was that the call of Captain
Hans Rose of V.f U-ii3 upon American
naval officers here was to give an in
timation that rescue ships might be
needed in the vicinity soon, as well a:t
to exchange formal visits of courtesy.
Hear Admiral Cleaves, commander of
the toriedo flotilla, disclaimed in a
statemtnt tonight, absolutely any prior
knowledge of the intentions of the
(Ierman IT boat.
"My only information," he said, "was
contained in an S. o. S. message which
said that the steamer West l'oint had
been sunk, and that her crew had
taken to the boats. The natural thing
to do was to order out every available
vessel to search for the crew. As it
happened, it was fortunate that we had
so many ships out, end I am very glad
that we were able to render the aid we
did." He concluded with the declara
tion that nothing had passed between
him and Captain Rose during their
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Oft. 9. So much
depends upon President Wilson's de
cision regarding the German subma
rine operations in western . Atlantic,
and there are so many possibilities
that unforeseen complications may
develop as the fj boat campaign pru-
ceeds, that officials here dp line to
attempt any authoritive statement of
what the attitude of the American
government will be.
State department officials are con-
,, . . ,, . ... vines I that information before the
..11 that the general public denartnK,nt was reBardw, as sh(,wing
that none of Germanvs pledges to
the United States or her obligations
ander international law bad been vio
lated. officials indicated that much in
clination had come to navy officials
which had not been made public, bc
"acse it might ui.'. -aemy vessels.
Tonight n warning was sent out to
navy, commercial and amateur wire
less stations along the coast forbid
ding dispatches of any radio mess
ages regarding movements of any
belligerent war vessels.
Wether the sit:ation would be
complicated by. the new allied memo
randum on submarines, outlined in
tonight's :-able dispatches as urging
that any underwater craft entering a
neutral port should Ie "etained there,
was another subject on which offici
als were silent. This communication
has not vet reached the state depart
ment. Officials have considered care
fully the subject it oiscu?fces, how
ever, and are exporter; to take issue
with any suggestion That American
neutrality was violated by the course
of this government that American
neutrality was violated by the cours
of this government in its treatment of
the Herman merchantman Oeutsch
land or the German U-5:i, which call
ed at Newport Satur!av.
The lunger t which neutral sub
marines through being mistaken by
belligerent vessels, hinted at in the
memorandum was suggested to the
American government some time ago.
and in consequence every care has
been taken to keep American subma
rines out ol waters where mistakes
might arise. The British embassy
unofficially warned the government
that German war submarines might
find their way over here without diffi
culty.
. Th possibility that German sub
' marines have a temporary base of
operations on this side of the Atlantic
i was another topic in official discus
I sion. At the department Of Justice it
jw.is said there had been on evidence
i of such a base in American waters.
ANSWERS GIN
10 QUESTIONS
DEISTS ASK
An Overworked Submarine
NEWPORT. 1;. I.. Oct. . The story
of how the ships came within range
of a ('-boat raider so fast on Sunday
off Nantucket that she had to keep
one waiting while she disposed of an
other, v. as told today by Arthur Gray,
wireless operator on the Norwegian
Christian Knudsen. The
was sunk about nine o'clock
morning, and the crew
rovvd abort in small boats for ten
hours before eing picked rp bv a
boat from the Nantucket shon'.s light
ship. "We heard the sound of firing
some t'mo before the submarine hove
in si-ht Gr.lv said today: but by
The throttle of platform eloquence
will be thrown wide open today in
the Salt river valley. From the Chand
ler plal.i to the reechoing horizon
west of Phoenix, 42 centimeter argu
ments why an honest, well meaning
but weak and vacillating president
should lay down his h-ii and make
room for an examplar of stalwart
Americanism, will hurtle from mid
day to sunset through the circum
ambient atmosphere. Pleading petu
lance and irritating delay have worn
a long suffering and patient people
to a wind shivered frazzle and turn mi any blacklist
of deeds as well as words, wine men it ion."
frotrt the cat as it were, have come
to tell wily Charles Kvaus Hughes, a
champion of the nation's honor as
vll as the people's rights, should
slip into the presidential chair, the
rugged touch of a nack bone it has
not sensed since the waves closed
over the Lusitania's dead or the as
sassin's dagger was unsheathed in
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PHILADELPHIA, Oct. fl. Charles
II Hughes, in a speech here tonight,
urgently assailed the administration
for its foreign and .Mexican policies
and outlined the republican party
program in two respects, as follows:
"We do not propose to tolerate anv
improper interference with American
property, with American mails, ar
with legitimate commercial intercourse.
"No
within
LOCATED HEAD
U.S. TROOPS
American
American
who is acting only
rights, shall be put
by any foreign na-
In addition to reference to the sei
zure of American mails and the Brit
ish blacklist of American firms, Mr.
Hughes recalled the sinking of the
L'lsitania. repenting the declaration
contained in his speech of acceptance
that bad the American government
left no doubt "That when we said
'sirict accountability' we meant pre-
Mexio. i cisely what we aid." there would
Hon. James IT. Garfield, from all i have been no destruction of American
over the 1'nited States, but mostly lives by the sinking of the Lusitania.
Ohio 'and Washington, Hon. Clarence! Knrlier in the iiav Mr. Hughes had
it. Millir from Minnesota and Hon. . nuthoi ized issuance of this statc
.loscph H. Kibhey1, from all over Ari-mnt:
zona, with headquarters at Phoenix. I "Mr. Hughes was asked today for
will make the initial charge quite! his views with respect to the present
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mexico, Oct. 9.
Francisco Villa and his main com
mand has been located at Tejolocachlc.
thirty-five miles south of Madera, and
only eighty miles south of Casas
Grandes and the American expedition
iry base, according to reports received
by General Jacinto IS. Trevino from his
scouts in the field. Villa is reported
to be moving north along the Mexico
A orth western railroad line in the di
rection of Matachic and Madera. A
scout detachment was sent out from
Madera to reconnoiter, and is expected
to make a report to General Trevino as
to the exact location of the Villistas.
A band of the Villistas has also been
located near Guerrero City, eighty
miles west of Chihuahua City and only
fifteen miles south of Tejolocachic.
The band near Guerrero is believed to
be a part of Villa's main band.
General Matias Ramos, who was shot
through the left knee during the fight
at Cusihuiriachie, was operated upon
at the hospital here and the bullet re
niovtd.
NEUTRALS 1ST
DENY ENTRANCE
TO SUBMARINES
early in the morning and stay on
the firing line until the cold, pale
moon relieves the flickering lights
over the stadium in Phoenix, and
the to pub i ce retires with a hope in
its heart that many have nut hitherto i
experienced for a long time.
Mr. Garfield will arrive on the Ari-1
zona Eastern train Irom Los An
geles, and will be taken at once to I
ciiilty. it was too late to escape. When
; -e came on to the scene of action
the undersea boat was engaged with
I the British teamer, Stephano. While
! the passengers and crew of the
, Stephano were disembarking, the U
jhoai. ran alongside the Knudsen and
i ordered us to steam near the Stephano.
"While the submarine was along
side the Knudsen waiting for the
cap'ain take his papers nboard, one
of tin United States destroyers came
into view. Almost Immediately the
submarine submerged and remained
under water un'il the destroyer came
near enough to be recognized as a
neutral vessel, when she immediately
came to the surface and continued
her vork.
"V.'e were told to pack up our be
longings and leave the ship, which we
at once began to do. We had plenty
of time to get off while the subma
rine was disposing of the other ves-
away befi re the submarina fired op i ,., ,. -., , -., ,-j
! reached the navy department tonight
torpedo , j.cr:i,0.- afi ubmers"J'e-s movements
Iwhilo in American waters, p.nd stated
''that Lieutenant Captain Rose had
U! assured American officers th:it hlj
oi ly purpose in entering the port was
t.i pay his respects.
- "The vessel," the report continued
"is much larger than our L class.
the home of his host, Mr
Heard, for breakiast and
utes of rest Mr. -Miller
Kibhey will arrive via Santa Ke from
their speaking tour in hc north. Mr.
Miller is a well known congressman
from Minnestota, where they pro
duce men of rugged intellect as well
submarine situation. He refused to
discuss it He said he was not in
control of ofticial Hgencies and was
not in receipt of official information.
He said further that he had no desire
to erobarras the administration in
cealing with any current matters as
to which the, administration had the
whole responsibility."
Mr Hughes' attack on the adminis-
Owight li i tration's foreign and Mexican policies
few min- was couched in more vigorous terms
and Judge I than anv he has heretofore employed.
"The administration asks for a voto
of confidence." he added, "but its de
fenders certainly shout In protest
vhen i'.s record is critically examined.
When its humiliating failure to safe-
as frames. He has been touring the i guard American rights is held up to
west at the behest of the national deserved condemnation it seeks to es-
I cape hv asserting that Its conduct
bad no alternative but war: that to
disapprove its conduct is to favor
the Knudsen. She fired at least 1 TiO
shots, and these not having the le-
-ired effect, she cut roose a
n-
(Continued on Page Two)
COL. ROOSEVELT'S TOUR
CHICAGO, Oct. 9. Colonel
Roosevelt will speak in behalf of
Hughes and Fairbanks at Chicago.
I Ienver, Louisville, Pittsburg and
New York City before the close of
the campaign according to an an
I nouncement made today by the
t speakers' bureau at the western
I republican national headquarters.
I The dates for the trip have not yet
been made up.
(4.'0 tors), but I have no exact figures
aa to displacement c.r length. The
freedom with which officers and crew'
conversed with visitors, and their
willingness to show all parts of the"
ship were very surprising.
"I have nothing upon which to base
an opinion as to the real object of
the commander in entering this
port."
TREA D I
T
ALONG THE ENTI HE BATTLE FR DNT
committee.
At 9 o'clock, these gentlemen as the
guests of Mr. Heard, will leave by
motor oar for Chandler. They are
scheduled to arrive there at 11 o'clock,
and will address the
neighborhood in the
San Mnrcis hotel. Thereafter, lunch
eon will be served and the party will
leave promptly for Mesa, where the
visitors will make brief addresses at
the city ball, the meeting beginning
at 2:U0 o'clock.
It is expected that the Mesa busi
ness houses will close during the
speaking period in honor of the dis
tinguished guests, whom all will want
to hear, irrespective of the partisan
riatpre of 1he meeting, for nil these
men are of a sort who dwell in an
atmosphere above the cruder lines of
party prejudice. They are the kind
of men who do not merely subscribe
to party platforms, but draw parties
to their principles and elevate the
stardards that would otherwise tie
itiated to a simple grab for offices.
In view of this decided courtesy on
the part, of the .Mesa people, the
motor special will run on schedule
time that there may be no embarrass
ment of local arrangements at any
poi nt.
Immediately after the Mcf.i meeting
the patty will leave for Tempo, where
mother meeting has been scheduled
nt the city hall park at 4: HO o'clock.
It will be too late in the day for long
iddrcsses, nt't short nappy speeches
are expected from all. Kvtrybody in
the whole countryside is invited to be
present, and as many as can do so.
are urged to come to Phoenix for the
evening mass meeting, also.
At l:Mi o clock the mass meeting at
the Y. M. C. A. stadium will be called
to order. It will be nbted that this
a half hour earlier than the meet
ings heretofore held, but there will
be speakers present that all will want
to bear, and it is desired to dismiss
v a r.
That Mr Hughes characterized as
people of that I an astounding assertion" which oould
loggia of the, not avail to "divert attention from the
serious errors committed."
"We till desire peace," Mr. Hughes
said, "but we desire peace to be hon
orably maintained by correct policies,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
On the battle fronts in Europe,
Transylvania and Macedonia continue
for the moment the centers of greatest
interest. According to lierlin, the Ru
manians in Transylvania are retreating
along the whole line. The Teutonic
allies have recaptured the town of
Toerzburg. fifteen miles southwest of
No Apprehension in Berlin
of Complications With U. S.
Republican A. P. Leasri Wire
HKItl.IN, Oct. 9. (Via London. Oct.
10.) The submarine I'-fiS today fur
nished 'two surprises for the peopie of
ISerlin the first its unaided arrival at
Newport and then the reports of the
sinking; by the submarine of iiritlsll
freighters off the American coast. The
exploits of . the submarine, occasioned
long and enthusiantic press comme.nL
Regardless of the various attitudes
f the newspapers with regard to the
present submarine controversy, all
f'em express the most surprise and
pleasure in the achievements of the U
i3, dilating particularly on the fact
that she was able to resume her voyage
from Newport and operate against
enemy merchantmen without tuking
advanlage of the international privil
ege of replenishing her fuel and other
supplies.
There is no fear here of complica
tions with the United States over the
warlike activity of the submarine, as
it is generally assumed in official as
well as newspaper circles that her
operations are being conducted in ac
cordance with the requirements of
cruiser wnrfare as specified by the law
of nations and recognized by the Amer
ican government.
Kronstadt and within seven miles of
the Rumanian border. In the Danube.
north of Sistova, the Germans have oc
cupied an Island taking six guns and
making prisoners of the Rumanian
troops there.
Serbians in considerable force have
crossed the Cerna river in Serbia and
captured the town of Skochivir. south
east of Monastir and also have occu
pied positions along the north bank of
the river.
Considerable hard fighting has again
taken place In the region west of Lutsk
and farther south in Galicia, but the
operations are somewhat beclouded bv
reason of contradictory reports of war
office statements. Petrograd- says the
Russians at some points in Volhynia
succeeded in entering Austro-German
positions east of Vladimir-Volhvn.ski
but Rerlin reports that these attacks
failed with sanguinary losses to the
Russians. In the Carpathians the Ger
mans have madp an advance at IJaba
ludowa.
Violent reciprocal bombardments are
In progress in the Somme region of
France. Infantry attacks also have
taken place, but no important gains
have been chronicled.
Carrying 200(1 Serbian and French
soldiers, the auxiliary cruiser Gallia has
been sunk in the Mediterranean with a
loss of 638 men.
(Continued on Page Two)
Wounded Carranza General
EL PASt), Texas, Oct. S. General
Jacinto Trevino's wound, which he re
ceived while fighting the Villistas in
Chihuahua City, has become infected
and his condition is causing his friends
much alarm, an American who arrived
today from the Chihuahua state capital
reported. General Trevino was jstruck
on the chest above the heart by a bul
let which then passed through his left
arm, breaking the bone. Indications
of blood K)isoning, said the American,
were noticeable. Because of the wound
it is possible that General Carlos
ozuria, who arrived in Chihuahua re
cently from Saltillo, may assume com
mand of the northeastern zone pend
ing General Trevino's recovery
Trains between Chihuahua City and
the border are being stopped by the
Carranza soldiers and the passengers
searched for letters and papers.
All horses and mules in and near
Chihuahuaj City are being seized by the
Carranza military officers for use in
the field against Villa. Horses were
being taken from coaches and wagons
in the streets of Chihuahua City, ac
cording to the refugees.
Refugees are pouring into Chihuahua
City from yestern Chihuahua. They
are said to fear Villa less than they
fear that they may be shot as suspect-
(Continued on Page Two)
VOTERS OF NORTH ERN ARIZONA
MOVED 81 POWERFUL APPEALS
(Continued on Page Two5
o
Campbell Party
Given Ovation in
Southern Towns
(Special to The Republican.)
W1LLCOX, Ariz., Oct. 9. Leaving
Douglas this morning and speaking at
AlcNeal, Webb. Courtland, Light, Co
chise and ending in an old time re
publican rally here tonight, Tom
Campbell and party left fir Bowie late
tonight. A drum corps and autos met
the party several miles from Willcox.
At the hotel the First Arizona Regi
mental band and a great crowd were
on band to meet Campbell and party.
A torch light procession led by the
band led the crowd to the hall where
the largest and most enthusiastic rally
ever held here followed. Campbell was
given an ovation and spoke but twenty
minutes, giving way to Henry D. Ksta
brook of New York who spoke for an
hour on national issues, holding the
big audience spell bound by his elo
quence and sound arguments In behalf
of Charles Evans Hughes and republi
can principles.
(Special to The Republican)
PRK.SCOTT, Oct. 9. The weak,
vacillating head of the American gov
ernment was bitterly scored tonight in
the Elks' theater in a most masterful
manner by Congressman Clarence B.
Miller of Duluth, Mich. The broken
planks, forgotten promises, and lost
pledges, were all exposed. And more
than 400 people cheered Congressman
Miller until the heavy walls of the
building reverberated with their applause.
The democrats raised their hands
in holy horror over an expenditure of
one billion dollars by the republicans
during 1111." said Congressman Miller,
yet they spent nearly two billion dol
lars of the people's money during the
year just closed, and most of this for
'pork,' too."
That patriotism is manifestly lack
ing as a result of our ignominious re
treat from Vera -Cruz, of our failure to
execute the many threats hurled at
European powers, of the heavy and
expensive patronage distributed to "de
serving democrats by the creation of
nearly 40,000 oft ices and political jolm,
has all been witnessed during the ad
ministration ! the educational presi- J
dent. These and innumerable other
truths were hurled at the audience by
the Michigan congressman while demo
crats, socialists and republicans, all as
one, cheered him vociferously.
He drove home the vital issues, the
tr uths and the glowing blunders of the
many mistakes under democratic rule
in many pointed sentences with such
conviction that even political enemies
of the grand old party were compelled
to applaud him.
Governor J. H. Kibhey, republican
candidate for United States senator,
made the most convincing, the most
eloquent speech of the present cam
paign. He admitted that President
Wilson was a man of high and lofty
ideals, of unquestioned patriotism, of
great learning and perfect habits, but
declared that his training, his educa
tion and his vocation in life were not
such as to fit him for the big, practical
things that are necessary for the head
of our government to accomplish.
"I will not attempt to describe the
sunlight on the sides of the Grand Can
yon, nor will I endeavor to move the
San Francisco peaks by mere words.
They will remain where they are, no
matter what I say," declared 3overnor
Kibbey, and this was the only refer
ence he made to his opponent, who is
attempting to hide the issues of the
campaign behind wild and flowery
flights of oratory.
Not an unnecessary word was said
during the address of Arizona's best
loved governor. Every opinion he en
tertains, every issue he believes in, and
every angle of the campaign was dis
cussed in the straight forward and hon- i a -uhe'
est manner that is characteristic of
him. There was no hesitancy in his
deliverey, and no effort to mislead his
listeners. '
Joe V., Prochaska, candidate for sec
retary of state, made a most favorable
impression, and was roundly cheered
when he pleaded for a strictly business
administration in the important office
that has. apparently, ueen forgotten in '
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Oct. 9 The text of the
memorandum recently sent by the en
tente allies to neutral governments
respecting the admission of belligerent
submarines into neutral waters, or
ports, is as follows:
"In view of the development of sub
marine navigation and by reason of
acts, which in the present circum
stances may l)e unfortunately ex
pressed from enemy submarines, the
allied governments consider it neces
sary, in order not only to safeguard
their belligerent rights and liberty of
commercial navigation, but avoid risks
of dispute, to urge neutral governments
to take effective measures, if they have
not already done so, with a view to pre
venting belligerent submarine vessels,
whatever the purpose to which they are
put, from making use of neutral waters,
roadsteads and ports.
"In the case of submarine vessels,
the application of the principles of the
laws of nations is affected by special
and novel conditions: First, by the fact
that these vessels can navigate and
remain at sea submerged and can thus
escape all control lind observation;
second, by the fact that it is impos
sible to identify them and establish
their national character, whether neut
ral or belligerent, combatant or non
combatant and to remove the capacity
for harm inherent in the nature of such
vessels.
"It may further be said that any
place which provides a submarine war
ship far from its base with an oppor
tunity for rest and replenishment of its,
supplies thereby furnishes such admis
sion to its powers that the place be
comes in fact, through the advantages
which it gives, a base of naval opera
tions. "In view of the state of affairs thus
existing, the allied governments are of
the opinion that submarine vessels
should be excluded from the benefit of
the rules hitherto recognized by the
laws of nations regarding the admission
of vessels of war or merchant vessels
into neutral waters, roadsteads, or
ports, and their sojourn in them. Any
belligerent submarine entering a neut
ral port should be detained there.
"The allied governments take this
opportunity to point out to the neutral
powers the grave danger incurred by
neutral submarines in the navigation
of regions frequented by belligerent
ships."
The London afternoon newspapers
generally devote leading editorials to
tho visit of the German submarine to
the United States. The Pall Mall
Gazette says that in the sinking of
numerous ships off the American coast
the "government and people of the
United States have thus had an inti
mate reminder of the character and
habits of the craft which had received
their hospitality."
The Pall Mall Gazette summarizes
the entente allied note regarding the
treatment Of Knhmensibleta anil e,,n
i tinues: "The entente allies have point
ed out in the most friendly spirit some
of the consequences which neutrals
cannot escape if they extend the re
sources of their ports to belligerent
submarines. If those German craft are
to ply their calling off American ports
we shall obviously establish a counter
patrol and our merchantment will have
to be alert to destroy the pirates when
ever the opportunity offers.
"But in this kind of warfare there is
little time to ascertain the nationality
of submarine craft. Their hunters
have to deal with them on sight and it
is by no means improbable that one of
America's own submarines straying
into the danger zone might inadver
tently encounter the fate reserved for
It is a question for
tne American government, whether it
wishes its Atlantic coast frequented by
its own submarines or by those of Ger
many. It is quite clear in the nature
of things that there is not room for
both."
The Westminster Gazette prints an
editorial dealing with the circum
stances attending the arrival of the
submarine at Newport and says: "The
the interest which has been centered u-53 was shephered by the D-2 into
upon the senatorial and gubernatorial
contests.
Judge Otis J. Baughn, candidate for
supreme justice, delivered the best
speech he has made during the cam
paign. His earnest plea for a strictly
non-partisan supreme court met with
almost unanimous favor. It was an
impassioned plea he made, but force
ful. He declared that he would render
all decisions in impartial fairness to
port, wnere a mysterious letter was
duly handed to a journalist the only
man allowed aboard, who in turn post
ed it by the next mail."
The newspaper refers to the entente
allied memorandum regarding subma
rines, which, it says, apparently was
not published in the United States, al
though that power surely was one of
those to whom it was addressed. The
paper says it is certain Germany knew
both . sides, and assured his listeners . the contents of the memorandum and it
that, if they voted for him, they would ! may be that the U-53 was sent to test
never have cause for regret. the position of the United States.
Very Satisfactory Condition
Republican Campaign in West
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Oct. 9. Members of the
republican national advisory com
mittee met at western republican head
quarters today and spent several hours
discussing the campaign in the central
and western states. Reports were re
ceived from each state in the territory
west of Ohio together with a list of the
speakers assigned to each district.
After a long discussion the members
expressed themselves as satisfied with"
the progress of the campaign in the
western division.
Alvln T. Hert, manager of the west
ern headquarters, in a statement said:
"There is nothing doubtful about
Illinois, this state state is assured for
Hughes and Fairbanks. We are pleased
with the political outlook in the west
and are confident of victory in No
vember, but realizing that a campaign
of education, to be successful, must lie
persistent and thorough, we intend to
continue our activity throughout our
territory to the day of election.
"I regard Wisconsin, Montana and
Colorado as the principal fields of con
tention in the west today. In each of
these states we plan to conduct an in
tense campaign of education right up
to the seventh of November."
