1 III BBBBBBBBHBHHH1BUBB
i NEW YORK QUOTATIONS. tj I I V II I I 1 I I 17 l b l l l JM J l TEN PAGES
I per, $27.25$28.Q0. ' 10'00' CP" fx 1 T UTAH: Partly cloudy tonight and
j W ikk. "" Wednesday; warmer tonight In .ex-
"- i ' t"5- . fe-' . treme southwest portion. !
- : ; . FEARLhaa, INDEPENDENT, progressive newspaper. L
, - SMh YN0! OGPEN CITY' mAH" TUESDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 10, 1916. ' Secon.,.cla.o Ma., a, Portc, ogd.n, uuk '
j Brooklyn Wins Its First Game
(UNITED STATES REFUSES TO
DENY USE OF HARBORS TO
! IE GERMAN SUBMARINES
I Washington, Oct. 10. The United
States has refused to accept the con
i tention of the entente allies urging
; that neturals deny the use of their
harbors to all submarines, whether
merchantmen or warships, Counsellor
; Polk of the stato department an
nounced today.
The allied governments in a mem
i orandum to neutral powers called at
tention to "the grave danger incurrrd
i by neutral submarines in the navlga
' tion of regions frequented by belliger
ent submarines." Counsellor Polk an
nounced the department's position, but
; refused to discuss tho reason Tor it.
The American reply will not be
made public before the return of Sec
retary Lansing from tho summer
: White House tomorrow or Thursday.
! Claim of Allies.
1 The claim of tho allies that submar
ines are outlaws, as tho "note cabled
last night from London shows, brought
the question of whether the American
government may be sued for damages
resulting Irom the call of the German
submarine U-53 at Newport, before
' she started on her spectacular raid
j against commerce. Under the inter
im pretation of the allies the position may
be taken that Newport was made the
base for operations which officials
estimate already has caused $6,500,000
damage to allied shipping and trade.
J Any claim for damages, however,
would probably be most vigorously
iJ opposed by this government, which
i holds, that a warship has a right to
enter a neutral harbor and that the
? U-53 in no way attempted to make
Newport a bnse.
J Long Branch, N. J., Oct 10. Presl
l dent Wilson gave his entire attention
today to considering facts collected by
I the navy department regarding Ger
'a man submarine attacks on merchant-
men off the American coast. He had
S intended going to Brooklyn for the 3rd
baseball game of the world's series
but changed his plans to devote him
self to the foreign affairs of the
i nation.
The president shut himself in his
study this morning and went carefully
4 over all the evidence collected so far.
' "VYliIle this evidence was not given
! out, there was every indication that
j the president has received no Informa
I tion necessitating drastic action by the
j American government.
The president had on his program
today conferences with Secretary Lan
sing and Jules Jussorand, French am-
'. bassador to the United States.
Blockade of Ports.
' It was not believed that the Ameri
can government would take any irarae-
i diate action on developments to date
in the renewal of German submarine
activities but serious consideration
was given to the question of whether
attacks on merchantmen so near the
: American coast do not constitute a
virtual blockade of American ports.
James Gerard, American ambassn-
! dor to Germany, who arrived In New
York today from Germany. Is not ex-
! pected to see President Wilson until
next week. It was stated authorlta-
i tlvely that Mr. Gerard does not como
-' on any peace mission and that his trip
has no connection with submarine
i warfare, but he Is simply on a vaca-
i tion.
i. President Wilson plans to leave
! Shadow Lawn tomorrow afternoon for
Indianapolis where he will speak twice
i Thursday afternoon. It was said here
', today that he had shown no indica
tion of cancelling the Indianapolis
trip, which was taken as a sign that,
so far, he does not consider the sub
i marine situation critical.
J Washington, Oct. 10. Deportation
of aliens from any of the Atlantic and
i gulf immigration stations was sus
I pended today by Assistant Secretary
Post of tho department of labor be
cause of the submarine danger.
' It was explained that the lmmlgra.
tion authorities did not care to take
the moral responsibility of sending
I deported aliens Into possible danger.
' Berlin, Oct. 10, via London. 4:10
i a.m. Declarations and counter declar
4 ationB regarding the attitude of the
.Center party toward the submarine
question, the burning Issue of the day,
-,1 leaves the situation extremely foggy.
There is a cloud of uncertainty as to
how the clerical members of the relch
6tas, who hold the balance of - power,
will vote on the decisive ballot regard
ing the conduct of the war.
t
:i EXCHANGE SEAT
j SELLS FOR $74,000
New York, Oct. 10. A seat on the
I New York stock exchange was sold
I today for $74,500, an advance on the
I last sale of $1,500. Today's sale
it marked the high record for the year.
GREAT ANXIETY
AMONG SHIPPERS
lUnusual Precautions Taken
by Owners and Agents En
tente Nations' Vessels.
VALUABLE CARGOES
Germans in New York Keep
ing U-53 Informed on Ship
Movements.
New York, Oct 10. A day and
night without further news of the
U-53 has not quieted any of the anxi
ety In shipping circles caused by the
activities of the submarine commerce
raider at the bend of the great north
Atlantic highway off Nantucket.
Trans-Atlantic liners and freight
steamers approached this port by un
usual courses which carried them far
out of the customary lane. Cargoes
are on board worth millions of dol
lars. The Scandinavian-American liner
Frederlk VIII bringing James W. Ger
Germany, and the Anchor liner Cam
eronla arrived here early today. The
Frederik came from Christiansand
and the Cameronla from Liverpool
with 671 passengers.
The Cameronia-- -approached, the
harbor with all her lights, except a
small one on the mast; extinguished.
Among vessels due here from Eu
ropean ports today are the Patris
from Piraeus, Ryswick from Rotter
dam, Belgler from Marseilles, Lin
colnshire from Havre, Agios Georglos
from Geno, Lancaster from London,
Delta from Amsterdam, Buffalo from
Hull, Meuse from Bordeaux and Verdi
from Liverpool.
The Atlantic transport line steam
er Minnehaha is due to leave here
today for London with freight, while
the British steamer Strathalrley may
leave for Brisbane and the Black
Prince, British, for Rio Janeiro.
The Cunard liner Orduna with a
largo number of passengers and the
White Star liner Cedric heading to
ward New York from British ports,
aro not expected for several days.
Germans Inform U-Boat.
Louis Costa, manager of the Pierce
line, which yesterday delayed the de
parture of the steamer San Gugllelmo.
said ho believed German agents in
this city were keeping the U-53 In
formed as to the movements of the
vessels of the entente nations here.
Exporters here say the submarine
raid and the consequent advance of
Insurance rates on trans-Atlantic
tansportatlon, amounting in some
cases to 500 per cent will check
shipments from New York to Euro
pean ports. There was talk of a re
vival of a railroad embargo on freight
but no new action was taken. A
New York official said no attempts
were being made to halt freight on
tho way to steamers, but that the
road would not bring to Now York
more freight than tho steamers could
take away.
American Importers Preparing.
American Importers preparing for
an Interruption of trans-Atlnntic trade
which might result from submarine
raids, It was learned today. In anti
cipation of a shortage of European
goods they have placed In bonded
warehouses on tho Atlantic coast for
eign merchandise valued at about
$100,000,000. They began to store
this supply soon after the outbreak
of the war. If tho German subma
rine raids continue, tho American
merchants will draw on this accum
ulation of stock.
This supply Includes, It is estimated,
coal tar colors .values at $500,000, 2,
500,000 yards of wol dress goods
worth $600000; 1,300,00.0 yards -or
wool cloths worth more than $1,000,
000; about 8,000,0 yards of linen worth
$2,500,000; furs worth $600,000; sev
eral million square yards of foreign
cotton goods, and a wldo variety of
other imported stock worth hundreds
of thousands of dollars.
Cameronla Changed Course.
The Cameronia, a British vessel, re
ceived a wireless warning while off
Nantucket on Sunday that a German
submarine was In tho vicinity. Life
boats wore swung out and lifeboats
were distributed among the C70 pas
sengers and the ship nbruptly turned i
her courso to the south.
Off Cape May the Cameronia en
tered the three-milo neutrality limit
and hugging the shore, steamed north.
Greek Ship Sights U-Boat.
The Greek steamship Patris, upon
her arrival here today from Mediter
ranean ports, reported that she sight
ed a submarine during foggy weather
off Nantucket at 5:30 a. m. Monday.
The Patris captain said he tried to
speak to the U-boat In tho Morse code
but received no answer and his ves
sel proceeded unmolested.
Tho Frederlk VIII, according to her
officers, sighted no submarines while
passing Nantucket and did not change
her course. On the voyage from Co
penhagen sho put In at, Kirkwall,
Scotland. There the British author
ities removed all the mail and Herold
Grebst, a Swedish consular agent to
Costa Rica, whom they charged with
making sketches while in the harbor
at Kirkwall.
No Vessels Clear.
Philadelphia, Oct 10. No vessels
flying foreign flags have cleared from
this port since tho reports of Ger
man submarine activities off the New
England coast reached here on Sun
day. Seventeen British. French, Italian
and Japanese vessels are docked here
and shipping men estimate that car
goes valued at $14,000,000 are tied up
here.
It is understood they are awaiting
convoys which are reported on the
way.
RUSSIANS SINK
TWO SUBMARINES
Germans Attack Wireless Sta
tion and Torpedo Boat Sends
Them to Bottom.
Christiania, Oct. 9, Monday, via Lon
don, Oct 11:22 a. m. A Russian tor
pedo boat yesterday sank two German
submarines after the submerslbles had
attacked the Russian wireless station
at Sopnavlak on the Murman coast
acordlng to information received here
today from Petrograd. Several per
sons were killed by the gunfire, of -the
submarines.
Spain Prohibits Submarines.
London, Oct. 10, 1112 a. m. The
Wireless Press has received word
from Madrid by way of Rome that the
Spanish government has given definite
orders prohibited the revlctualling of
submarines in Spanish waters.
-oo I
STUDENTS HAVE
IRRWESCAPE
Madison, Wis., Oct. 10. Fifteen
hundred students, many of whom had
miracuously escaped -from death or
serious Injury, fled from class rooms
In the main hall of the University of
Wisconsin this forenoon when fire of
unknown origin swept throughout tho
structure and destroyed tho building.
The main hall, which Is valued at
$202,000, Is insured with the state fire
insurance fund -for $184,000. The con
tents of the building are valued at
$40,000. The state Tire insurance fund
today has on hand $145,074. The loss
Is total.
The fire is believed to have started
In the literary society room. Student
members of tho University fire brig
ado augmented by tho entire city de
partment, fought tho flames which
were fanned by a gale.
WIVES IE TO STAND
BACK OF THEIR
BUS
Chester Becraft and Blaine Stone
wore arraigned before Municipal
Judge George S. Barker this morning
nnd their preliminary hearing was set
for October 19. They are charged with
an attempt to commit a statutory of
fense upon the person of Miss Nina
Shinney, Inst Saturday night At the
preliminary hearing, tho defense will
bo conducted by Attorneys Joseph
Chez and D. L. Stlne and the state will
be represented by County Attorney
Joseph E. Evans. In tho meantlmo,
the two defendants are held under a
bond of $1,000 each, this order being
made by Judge Barker this morning.
Yesterday afternoon Mrs. Becraft
and Mrs. Stone, the young wives of
the accused men, visited them at the
polico station. The four were In p:I.
vato conversation for some time and
the women left the station composed
and seemingly determined to support
their husbands through their impend
ing trial.
ALLIES FIGHTING'
SOUTHOFSOMME
Artillery Fire Prelude to An
other Heavy Blow Below
the River.
GREAT RUSSIAN BATTLE
Serbian Troops Continue
Crossing the Cerna-Bulgar-ians
Fail.
Increased activity south of the riv
er Somme is reported by tho French
war office. For some time the main
efforts of tho French and British have
been made north of the river but last
night the artillery was unusually ac
tive on the front between Denlecourt
and LIhons. This may be the pre
lude to another blow below the river,
In accordance with the French policy
of swinging the attack back and forth
from one side of tho river to the
other.
Although the gerat battle in Vol
hynla and Gallcia apparently is con
tinuing with the same ferocity that
has market the fighting since the
new Russian offensive began, Petro
grad reports that nothing of Impor
tance has occurred.'
Berlin is almost equally uncommu
nicative and few details are permit
ted to reach the outside world of
this campaign, which represents the
supreme effort of the Russians this
season to break the Austro-German
line and capture Lemberg.
Serbs Crossing River.
The Bulgarian war office acknowl
edges that Serbian troops have forced
a passage of the Cerna river In Greek
Macedonia. It says the Serbians were
subjected to a counter attack and that
tho fighting continues. According to
the French war office, the Bulgar
ians' counter attack failed and more
Serbians are crossing the river.
Former Premier Venizelos of Greece
and the othermembers of thc-Tiro-visional
government set up in defi
ance of the king, have gono to Salon
iki where the Greek revolution began.
Professor Lambros has succeeded in
forming a ministry which will be
sworn in today, according to unofficial
advices from Athens. The now min
istry is colorless politically and there
are no indications of any Immediate
departure from Greece's policy of neu
trality. Fighting South of Somme.
Paris, Oct 10, noon. Increased ac
tivity on the battle front south of
the Somme is reported today by the
war office. Spirited artillery fighting
occurred last night in tho Denlcourt
Llhons sector.
Austro-German8 Progressing.
Berlin. Oct. 10. via London, 4:16
p. m. Continuing their advance In
Transylvania, the Austro-German
forces under General von Falkenhayn
have made further progress In the
Hargata and Colgata mountains.
Bulgarian Troops Retire.
London, Oct. 10, 2:10 p. m. The
Bulgarian forces which have been op
posing the British troops In the re
gion to tho east of tho river Struma
In Greek Macedonia have retired to
tho hills northwest of Seres, says tho
British official statement issued to
day. The British have occupied the
towns of Kalendra and Homondos.
British View of Blockade.
London, Oct 10, 3:20 a. m. The
Times legal correspondent, dealing
with the German submarlno activity
off the Americnn coast, calls it a
"long distance blockade of the British
Isles which Is utterly Inadmissible In
International law."
"It amounts in practico," tho corre
spondent adds, to a 'pacific blockade'
of the American const A pacific block
ade Is a form of coercion adopted In
tlmo of peace to bring a wrong-doing
state to reason. If, In tho present
Instance, tho United States will tol
erate pressure of this sort, some sur
prise will bo caused International
lawyers."
The Times editorially reviews tho
submarine activity near the American
coast, declaring that it raises a gravo
and complicated situation botween
Germany and the United States.
"While It is for President Wilson to
protect the dignity and interests of
tho American people." ays the Times,
"it is for the allies to mako cear that
thoy cannot and do not regard Ger
man submarines 'frlghtfullness, as
coming within tho recognized laws
of war."
Turks Drive Back Russians.
Constantinople, Oct 10, via London,
10:06 a. m. Tho war office today
inndo public today tho following:
"We drove back toward Karadoro
vok an enemy force which was at
tempting to entrench between Dcv
lataband and Hamadan (Persia).
"On the right wing of the Cau
casian front there were skirmishes
and Intermittent tiring of artillery and
Infantry In the center wo again ad
vanced our position slightly. On the
loft wing we tqok some prisoners and
a large quantity of arms and equip
ment In patrol engagements."
Danish Submarine Sinks.
Copenhagen, Oct 10, via London,
7:25 a. m. Tho Danish submarine
Dykkern which sank yesterday after a
collision with' a Norwegian steamer,
has been brought to the surface. Five
of the six mombers of tho crew who
went down with tho craft were res
cued alive. Lieutenant-Commander
Christiansen was found dead in the
conning tower.
ARMED ' MEN GUARD
STANDARD OIL PLANT
Bayonno, N. J., Oct. 10. Armed po
licemen today guarded the local plant
of tho Standard Oil company where a
strike was called which was said to
a'fect more than 3,000 men or about
half tho employes. The strikers de
mand wage Increases of from 20 to 30
percent. A trolley car carrying men
to work today .was attacked with
stones, but no one was seriously hurt.
MESS FORFEITS
MIL MOIEY I
POLICE COURT
Belle Fannon, a negress, forfeited
$50 bail In the municipal court this
morning. She was arrested last Fri
day night by Sergeant J. F. Kelliher
and Patrolman W. E. Moore, on a
charge of vagrancy and was alleged
to have participated in the robbery of
a local Greek.
Guy D. Boles, colored, pleaded guil
ty to a charge of taking and operating
an automobile without the consent of
the owner and was ordered to pay a
$25 fine or to servo 25 days in jail.
The offenso was committed last Sun
day and the automobile was the prop,
erty of tho Ogden Electric Supply
company.
Peter N. Boodrookos received a $25
fine for having written and passed a
worthless check. The chock was
drawn on the Commercial National
bank on March 16, 1916, for $2S.10 in
favor of T. Farr & Co., but tho signer
had no funds in the bank.. Before sen
tence was passed, it was understood
that tho defendant would make the
check good to tho grain company.
The case of tho City vs. A. B.
Graves, colored, was continued until
tomorrow, to permit the defendant ob
taining witness He is accused of va
grancy. E. H. Chalmers and Walter Dailey,
plain drunks, were given suspended
sentences.
oo
LILLIAN BfiOIBEI
GOES TO JAPANESE
MISSION
Ogden is to have another representa
tive among tho missionaries of the
Mormon church who are working 'to
proclaim tho tenets of the church in
far off Japan.
Miss Lillian Brondbent was sur
prised one morning to find In her mall
a message from the presidency of the
church, asking that she undertake this
task which necessitates a long voyage
and a number of yoars of application.
Tho call was immediately accepted
and now preparations are about com
pleted for her departure.
Lillian Broadbent Is tho daughter
of Enoch J. Broadbent of 1775 Twenty-second
street. For the past threo
years she has been employed as head
cashier In the basement departments
of Wrights' store, where her pleasing
personality has made for her many
friends. She also has been an ener
getic worker in tho Sunday school of
tho Sixth ward.
Workers In the Japanese mission
are required to spend from four to six
years in the field, owing to the long
time required in mastering the Japa
nese language.
Tho organizations of tho Sixth ward
have united to give Miss Broadbent a
fitting farewell, which will be held at
tho Weber academy, Thursday, of this
week. Tho foro part of the evening
will bo devoted to tho following pro
gram, lifter which tho evening will bo
devoted to dancing:
Piano solo Edna Kohan
Vocal solo Robert Greenwoll.
Violin and piano duet
Cleonc and Ortel Rich
Vocal solo Melba Read Jones
Reading ......Mary Wooley
Cello solo Loith Pearson
Vocal solo ...Dinah Olsen
,'i i
F; " " "
I WORLD SERIES 12 M. STANDARD OFFICE
I1
GOURIT TO SORROW
MONEY FHOM I
Weber county commissioners, at
the session this morning, approved the
bond of $10,000 of the Weber Ab
straqt company, Zllphla J. Stephens
and Efflo M. Campbell, being the sure
ties. The report of Joseph E. Storey,
county treasurer, showing $1,996.25 to
be the total amount received in tax
sale redemptions and quit claim deeds
for the quarters ending September 30,
was approved.
The commission authorized a loan
of $5,000 from the Ogden State bank,
tho money to bo used in defraying
current expenses.
The report of tho poor commission
er, showing a total oxpendlturo of
$5,620.73 was approved. The report
contained an Item showing that $1,725
had been expended by the county lh
the construction of the isolation hos
pital in the Randall district The re
port follows:
oo
REGISTRATION IN THE
CITY WILL BE
HEAVY
Indications that today's registration
of voters at the various places of reg
istration in the city and county would
be heavy were given on inquiries re
ceived at headquarters of both the
Republican and Democratic parties in
the Dee-Eccles building this morning.
Telephone bells were kept ringing
constantly and in almost every in
stance the person at the other end of
tho line proved to be one who desired
some information regarding registry
requirements.
Complete reports on the registra
tion probably will not be received be
fore late tonight or tomorrow morn
ing. The registration will continue to
morrow. Campaign executive officers have
boon encouraging early registration
to avoid confusion later on.
GROWS
WEAK
i: ;
Lost His Nerve and Had
to be Taken Out :
af Box.
Ebbet's Field, Brooklyn, New York, j
Oct 10. The Brooklyn Nationals won I
their first world's series game today
turning back the Boston Americans j
by a score of 4 to 3. The series now
stands, Boston Americans 2, Brook- ,!
lyn Nationals 1. It was Brooklyn's
lusty and timely stick work that
brought over the winning runs for )'
the National league champions. They
had no difficulty negotiating Mays' ",
underhand ball. The home folks
played a smart fielding game and not '
an error marred their play. The !
old veteran Jack Coombs started in
the box for Brooklyn but be began i
to lose his effectiveness In the sixth
inning when Boston put over two
runs, and in the seventh when Gard
ner knocked the ball over the fense
for a home run, Coombs signalled for i
a relief pitcher. t
Official Box Score. if
BOSTON. !
AB. R. H. PO. A. E. ,ji
Hooper, rf 4 1 2 1 0 0 '
Janvrin, 2b 4 0 0 1 0 0 I
Shorten, cf 4 0 3 0 0 0 ;
Hoblltzell, lb 4 0 1 12 2 0
Lewis, 3b 3 1,1 2 0 1 !
Gardner, 3b 3 1 1 2 0 1 :
Scott, ss 3 0 0 1 7 0
Thomas, c 3 0 0 5 0 0
Mays, p 1 0 0 0 4 0 i
xHenriksen, 0 1 0 0 0 0
( Continued on Page 7 ) I.
THE STANDARD'S STATEMENT OF
OWNERSHIP AND CIRCULATION I
To comply with the postal regulations The Standard herewith presents ' !
Us semi-annual statement of ownership, management and circulation for
tho period beginning April 1, 1916, and ending October 1, 1916. I '
Dally average delivered by carriers and by mail, 428 '
net paid ) , .
Dally average delivered to employes of public and o-j j I
private Institutions and complimentary copies to I S '
advertisers, etc OLO j ;
Total average daily distribution . ,
4743
The following sworn statement has been filed in the postoffico: i
STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT,
CIRCULATION, ETC.
Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912,
Of the OGDEN STANDARD, publishod Daily, Except Sunday, at Ogden
Utah, for October 1st, 1916. i f
State of Utah, J j
County of Weber ss. j
Before me, a Notary Public In and for the, State and county aforesaid, i l
personally appeared R. C. Glasmann, who, having been duly sworn accord- 1 i
ing to law, doposen and says that he is the Publisher of the Ogden Stand- i I
ard, and that tho following is, to tho best of his knowledge and belief, a ;
true statement of the ownership, management of the aforesaid publlca
tion for the date shown in the above caption, required by the Act of Con- '
gross of August 24, 1912, embodied '.n. Section 443, Postal Laws and Regu- r
lations, printed on the reverse of this form, to-wit: j
1. That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing
editor, and business managers are: ; )
Publisher R. C. Glasmann Ogden, Utah
Editor , , Ogden, Utah i'
Managing Editor Frank Francis Ogden Utah
Business Manager R. C. Glasmann.. A !! Ogden,' Utah
2. That the owners are: . '
The Standard Publishing Company Ogden Utah '
Evelyn Glasmann '.;. Ogden, Utah h
R. C. Glasmann Ogden, Utah I;
A. L. Glasmann Ogden, Utah :'
Frank Francis Ogden, Utah I
William Glasmann estate Ogden, Utah !
3. That tho known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders j :
owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages,
or other securities are:
Ho,warmuTru?l)0 San Francisco, Calif. iL
4 That the two paragraphs next above, giving the name of the owners, ;
stockholders, and security holders, If any, contain not only the list of stock
holders and security holders as thoy appear upon tho books of the com- '
pany, but also, in cases where tho stockholder or security holder appe?rs 1
upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, j
the name of tho person or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, la
given; also that the said two paragraphs contain statements embracing af- j
fiant's full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions un.
der which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the i
books of tho company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity J
other than that of a bonda fido owner; and this affiant has no reason to T
believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest I
direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so l .
stated by him. j
5. That tho average number of copies of each Issue of this publication -J ,
sold or distributed, through tho mails or otherwise, to paid subscribers w j
during the six months preceding tho date shown above is 4,428 j
R. C.' GLASMANN, - !
Business Manager. I
'Sworn to and subscribed before me this 9th day of October, 191C.
(SEAL) T. R- O'CONNELLT,
Notary Public
ily. Commission Expires January 13, 1917, :
