fr'y' V i.n.i . . ~, j. , ~, .1 ~ - ... . . I ... .1 J W ,,. , . i ...... . ... .'V Li
Harrisburg Gets First Glimpse 6f Charles Evans Hughes, the Next President
t
HARRISBURG llfllllls TELEGRAPH
T YYYV— \T N nv CARRIERS n CRNTS \ WDEK.
LAAAV— ISO. -O J . SINGLE COPIES 2 CEXTS.
BROOKLYN WINS
THIRD GAME OF
SERIES ON THEIR
HOME GROUNDS
Dodgers Get a Grip on
World's Championship by
Defeating Red Sox in a
Thrilling Game Full of Sen
sational Plays; Battle
Featured by Long Hits
and Absence of any Costly
Errors.
TWO PITCHERS ARE
CLUBBED FROM BOX
Mays Is Succeeded in Sixth
by Foster; Jack Coombs
Forced to Take Bench Af-i
ter Gardner Poles One
Over River Field Wall in
Seventh For Homer;
Pfeffer Pitches in his Place
The Brooklyn Nationals wonl
their first world series game to-'
day, turning back the Boston |
Americans by a score of 4 to 3.1
The series now stands: Boston j
Americans, two; Brooklyn Na
tionals, one.
It was Brooklyn's lusty and timely ]
stick that brought over the winning j
run for the National Lieague champions. )
They had no difficulty negotiating May's j
underhand) ball. The home folks played j
a smart fielding game and not an error !
marked their play.
The old veteran, Jack Coombs,
started In the box for Brooklyn but;
he began to lose his effectiveness in!
the sixth inning when Boston put over 1
two runs and in the seventh when'
Gardner knocked the ball over the
fence for a home run. He signaled
for a relief pitcher.
BOSTON
AB. R. H. O. A. E.
Hooper, rf 4 1 2 1 0 0
Janvrin, 2b .... 4 0 o l o 0
Shorten, cf 4 0 3 0 0 0
Hoblitzel, 1b... 4 0 112 2 0
Lewis, If 4 0 0 1 1 0
Gardner, 3b .... 3 2 1 2 0 1
Scott, ss 3 0 0 1 7 0
Thomas, c 3 0 0 5 0 0
■ Mays t p 1 0 0 0 4 0
xHenriksen ... 0 1 0 0 0 0
Foster, p 1 0 0 1 2 0
Totals 31 3 7 24 16 1
BROOKLYN
AB. R. H. O. A. E.
Myers, cf 3 0 () 3 0 0
Daubert, lb 4 1 3 7 0 0
Stengel, rf 3 0 1 2 1 0
Wheat. If 2 1 1 4 0 0
Cutshaw, 2 b 4 0 1 4 0 0
Mowrey, 3b 3 1 0 2 1 0
Olson, ss 4 I 2 1 2 0
Miller, c 3 0 0 4 2 0
Coombs, p 3 0 1 0 2 0
Pfeffer, p 1 0 1 0 1 0
Totals 30 4 10 27 9 0
•Batted for Mays in sixth.
Boston 00000210 o—3
Brooklyn .... 00112000 *—4
Three base hits, Oipon, Hooper,
Daubert. Home run, Gardner. Sac
rifice hits, Stengel, Miller, Myers.
Struck out by Mays, 2; by Coombs, 1;
by Foster, 1; Pfeffer, 0. Base on balls
off Mays, 3; off Coombs, 1; off Foster,
0; off Pfeffer, 3. Left on base, Boston,
2; Brooklyn, 8. Hit by pitcher, Myers.
Wild pitchos, Foster. Innings pitched,
Mays, 5; Coombs, 6 1-3; Foster, 3;
Pfeffer, 2 2-3. Hits off Mays, 7; off
Coombs, 7; off Foster, 3; oft Pfeffer,
0. Time 2 hours. Umpires, Dineen,
Quigley, Connolly, and O'Day.
Miss Splendid Clinncc to Score
First inning Hooper up. Strike
one. Strike two. Ball one. Ball two.
Hooper filed out to Wheat. Janvrin
up. Ball one. Mowrey stabbed
Janvrin's grounder with his left hand
and throw him out. Shorten up
Strike one. Ball one. Ball two. Foul,
strike two. Foul. Shorten singled
past Cutahaw. Hoblitzel up. Ball
one. Hoi litzell singled to right and
Shorten tried to reach third and was
thrown out, Stengel tq Mowrey. No
runs, two hits, no errors.
Second half: Myers up. The home
folks gave Myers a warm reception
remembering him as the Brooklyn
hero of yesterday's game. Strike one.
Strike two. Foul. Myers was hit by
a pitched bail. Daubert up. Ball one.
Daubert bunted safely, Myers going to
second. Stengel up. Stengel sacrificed,
Mays to Hoblitzel, Myers going to
third and Daubert to second. Wheat
up. The Boston infield came onto the i
grass. Ball one. Ball two. Ball three, j
Wheat walked, purposely and the
bases were filled. Cutshaw up. Cut
shaw forced Myers, Hoblizel to
Thomas, Daubert went to third and
Wheat to second on the play. Mowrey
up. Ball one. Strike one. Ball two
Foul, strike two. Ball three. Mow
rey fanned. No runs, one hit, no
error.
All Out In Order
,nnln K —Lewis up. Ball one.
Strikf one. Lewis filed out to Myers
Gardner up Ball one. Gardner sent
wv,r J£ i y to . Cutsha w. Scott up. j
a circ s catch of Scott's I
U °,, runa ; no hlt . no errors. I
Second half—Olson up. Scott threw !
out Olson at first. Miller up. Strike
one Foul strike two. Miller fanned!
* f'onmhs^n 1 ? l ba " B ' Coombs Up. j
a re o. f, heer w hen he came :
to the plate. Strike one. Ball one
Scott threw out Coombs. No runs, no !
hita, rn rrrors.
Dodgers Get One In Third |
Third (Inning: Thomas up. Strike I
one. Ball one. Ball two. Foul, strike
two. Thomas popped to Cutshaw. I
Mays up. Strike one. Ball one. Ball
two. Strike two. Mays could not see !
Coombs curves and fanned. Hooper
I 1?' " ® a . l ' ® ne - Hooper singled i
through the box. Janvrin up. Ball
one. Hooper was out stealing. Miller
Boston HBHHHBnHH nwii
Brooklyn BBDDBBBBQ DEE 2]
Mayor Proclaims October 13
"Greater Harrisburg Day"
By proclamation issued to-day, Mayor E. S. Meals officially
designates Friday, October 13, as "Greater Harrisburg Day"
and requests all "patriotic citizens to favorably respond to the
invitation to subscribe to the stock of the new hotel when called
upon by different committees on that day."
The proclamation follows:
"WHEREAS, the Harrisburg Chamber of Commerce, the
central business and civic organization of the Harrisburg Dis
trict has doubled its membership, making it now embrace 830
firms and individuals, with ample revenue to solve the problems
of this District, and
"\\ HEREAS, Messrs. Charles M. Schwab, Eugene G.
tjrace, W. F. Roberts and Quincy Bent, the executives of the
Bethlehem Steel Company have recently undertaken the expen
diture of twenty million ($20,000,000) dollars for the develop
ment of the steel industry in this District, in addition to the
expansion of other houses and plans and the location of new
industries, and
"WHEREAS, a committee of the Harrisburg Chamber of
Commerce composed of men of affairs in this District has just
launched a successful movement to build a large modern hotel
in Harrisburg, the one improvement needed to insure the com
mercial and industrial development of this District, and
"WHEREAS, the success with which the public in this
District has responded to the limited canvass for subscriptions
to the capital stock, resulting in over half a million dollars
being subscribed, has convinced the officers of the Chamber of
Commerce that the public in general is desirous of subscribing
to the new hotel movement, in order that their civic patriotism
may be demonstrated, and
"WHEREAS, the committee workers who have just
doubled the membership of the Harrisburg Chamber of Com
merce have decided to devote next Friday, October 13, to a
canvass for public subscriptions to the capital stock of the new
hotel company, and the Rotary Club Committee has joined in
the movement,
"1 HEREFORE, I, Ezra S. Meals, Mayor of Harrisburg,
hereby proclaim Friday, October 13, GREATER HARRIS
BURG DAY and hereby request all patriotic citizens of the
Harrisburg District of communities to favorably respond to the
invitation to subscribe to the stock of the new hotel when called
upon by the different committees on that day."
to Cutshaw. No runs, one hit, no
errors.
Second half: Myers up. Strike
one. Scott threw out Myers at first
after fumbling his grounder. Daubert
j up. Foul, strike one. Ball one. Strike
i two. Foul. Foul. Foul. Daubert
i singled to right. Stengel up. Foul,
| strike one. Ball one. Stengel singled
|to left, Daubert going to second.
Wheat up. Foul, strike. Wheat flied
to Lewis. Cutshaw up. Strike one.
Ball one. Ball two. Daubert scored
| on Cutshaw's single to right, Stengel
j went to third, and Cutshaw went to
' second on the throw in. Mowrey up.
{ Scott threw out Mowrey. One run,
j three hits, no errors.
Dodgers Get Another
Fourth Inntne. Janvrin up. Foul,
strike one. Janvrin. flied to Stengel.
Shorten up. Strike one. Ball .one.
Foul, strike two. Shorten singled over
Mowrey's head, his second hit. Hob
litzell up. Strike one. Shorten went
out stealing, Miller to Olson. Ball
one. Hoblitzell flied out to Myers.
No runs, one hit, no errors.
Second Half: Olson up. Olson beat
| out a bunt and when Gardner threw
wildly to first Olson went to second.
Miller up.. Ball one. Foul, strike one.
Miller sacrificed. Mays to Janvrin. Ol
son going to third. Coombs up. Ol
son scored, on Combs' pretty single by
by Janvrin. Meyers up. Meyers sac
rificed. Mays to Hoblitzell. Daubert.
up. Ball one. Ball two. Foul strike.
I Scott threw out Daubert. One run,
I two hits, one error.
Coombs Pitching Superbly
Fifth inning Lewis up. Strike
I one. Ball one. Foul, strike two. Bail
j one. Lewis shot a liner right into
I Wheat's hands. Gardner up. Strike
I one. Ball one. Ball two. Ball three.
Strike two. Gardner popped to Mow
rey. Scott up. Strike one. Coombs
threw out Scott. Coombs was pitch
ing a superb game. His control was
perfect and he mixed up a fast ball.
No runs, no hits, no errors.
Second half: Stengei up. Ball one.
Foul, strike. Foul, strike two. Ball
two. Ball three. Foul. Stengel foul
ed out to Gardner. Wheat up. Ball
one. Ball two. Strike one. three.
Wheat walked. Cutshaw up. Strike
one. Ball one. Ball two. It was a
pitch out but Wheat outguessed Mays
and remained on first. Mays threw
out Cutshaw at first. Wheat going
to second. Mowrey up. Ball one. Ball
two. Strike one. Ball three. Mow
rey walked. Olson up. Wheat and
Mowrey scored on Olson's slashing
three base hit to left center. Miller
tip. Scott threw out Miller at first.
Two runs, one hit, no errors.
Rod Sox Get Two
Sixth Inning. Thomas up. Ball one.
Olson took care of Thomas' grounder
and threw him out. Henriksen batted
for Mays. Ball one. Ball two. Ball
three. Henriksen walked. Hooper
up. Strike one. Hooper sent a long
drive to right center for three bases,
scoring Hanriksen. Janvrin up. Ball
one. Janvrin popped to Cutshaw.
Shorten up. Strike one. Hooper
scored on Shorten's single over sec
ond. It was Shorten's third hit. Hob
litzel up. Strike one. Ball one. Ball
two. Coombs threw out Hoblitzel.
Two runs, two hits, no errors.
Second half: Foster went in the box
for Boston. Coombs up. Ball one.
Strike one. Ball two. Ball three.
Strike two. Coombs line flied to
Scott. Myers up. Strike one. Foul
strike two. Ball one. Ball two. My
ers popped to Gardner. Daubert up.
Ball one. Daubert got a three-base
hit to left but was out at the plate,
Lewis to Scott to Thomas. No runs,
one hit, no errors.
Coombs Taken Out
Seventh Inniiis;. Lewis. Strike one.
Strike two. Ball one. Lewis went out
to Daubert, unassisted. Gardner up.
Strike one. Ball one. Ball two. Gard
ner got a home run over the right
field wall. Coombs signaled for a re
lief pitcher. Pfeffer now pitching
for Brooklyn. Scott up. Strike one.
Ball one. Scptt filed out to Myers.
Thomas up. Ball one. Ball two. Strike
one. Foul, strike two. Ball three.
Foul. Thorr.as struck out. On£ run,
one hit, no errors.
Second half: Stengel up. Strike
one. Ball one. Foul, strike two.
Stengel filed to Moope who gathered
in the ball after a lops run. Wheat
up. Wheat got a single to right. Cut
shaw up. Strike one. Wheat stole
second. Ball one. Ball two. The of
ficial scorer has given Foster a wild
pitch. Foul, strike twu. Cutshaw
filed to Hoblitzel. Mowrey up. Strike
one. Foster threw out Mowrey. No
runs, one hit, no errors.
Kiglith Inning
Eighth Inning. Foster up. Strike
■ one. Ball one, Strike two. Ball two.
Ball three. Foster struck out. Hoop
er up. Strike one. Balle one. Foul,
strike two. Foul. Pfeffer tossed out
Hooper. Janxrin up. Strike one.
Strike two. Janvrin fanned. No runs,
no hits, no errors.
Second half: Olson up. Foster
threw out Olson, knocking down his
high bounder. Miller up. Ball one.
; Foul, strike one. Foul, strike two.
Foul. Foul. Miller went out, Hob
litzel to Foster. Pfeffer up. Pfeffer
got a single, to right. Myers up. Strike
one. Strike two. Bull one. Ball two.
Myers struck out. No runs, one hit,
no errors.
Ninth liming
Ninth Inning. Shorten up. Ball one.
Ball two. Strike one. Shorten fouled
out to Wheat. Hoblitzell up. Strike
one. Ball one. Olsen threw out Hob
litzell. Lewis flied to Stengel. No
runs, no hits, no errors.
Final score: Boston, 3, 7, 1; Brook
lyn, 4, 10, 0.
Brooklyn saw its first world's series
game in its own borough to-day. Here
tofore it has had to cross the bridge
and watch the New York Giants per
form in the all-important series. Keen
for the taste of the big baseball event
that makes or unmakes a champion,
hundreds came out early to the park
and sat for hours shivering in the wind
that swept the playing field. The sun
shone clear and bright, but it was a
poor day for a ball game. The players
themselves hugged the warm rooms of
the clubhouse until the last moment.
The temporary bleachers erected be
hind the left and center fields were the
first to fill up, while the box holders
waited until near game time before
coming to the park. Double sets of
temporary boxes had been erected in
front of the left and right field grand
stands. The usual brass band tried to
keep warm and in tune down near the
home bench.
The Brooklyns took their batting
practice first. Manager Robinson sent
out "Duster" Mails, a left-hander, and
Appleton to serve up the benders.
During the Bostons' batting practice
Pcnnock worked on the mound.
The first excitement of the day came
when the Boston royal rooters, about
500 strong, paraded around the field,
led by a band playing the battle song
of the fans, "Tessie." The Boston
rooters occupied a reserved section
back of the visitors' playing bench off
third base.
There was plenty of snap in the field
practice notwithstanding the cold.
It was announced that O'Day would
umpire behind the plate, while Umpire
Connolly would make the base de
cisions, with Umpire Dineen in right
and Umpire Quigley in left field.
There was a long conference of um
pires and managers on ground rules,
delaying the opening of the game.
Mays and Thomas was the selection
for Boston; Coombs and Miller for
Brooklyn.
In contrast with the warm haziness
of the past few days, remarkable for
its suitability tothe great national
pasttime, the morning broke cool and
breezy, with the promise of a day
more suited to work on the gridiron
than on the diamond.
THEWEATHffj
For Harrlabnrg and vicinity ■ Fair,
continued cool to-nlitlit unit Wed
ncxdavi heavy front to-nlKlit,
with IOWMI temperature about 33 ,
degrees.
For Knxtern Pennaylvaitlai Fair,
continued to-nlacht and Wednea
da> I heavy front <o-nlgliti gentle
to uodernte northerly wlnda.
HARRISBURG, PA., TUESDAY EVENING, OC TOBER 10, 1916.
ROUSING GREETING TO NEXI PRESIDENT
■4S CHARLES EVANS HUGHES, REPUBLICAN
CANDIDATE MAKES SHORT STOP HERE
CHARLES E. HUGHES AND
The Telegraph photographer snapped Mr. Hughes at the Union Station
as he stood with Spencer C. Gilbert, chairman of the general reception com
mittee named to meet the candidate here.
60 BURGLARIES
i SINCE JUNE 1;
NO CONVICTIONS
%
Alarming Inefficiency in Police
i Department Leads to Entries
by Scores
Inefficiency in the police department
; and inability of patrolmen and de
i teeth es to check the many burglaries
I in the city and near by during the last
few months is shown in a list of en
tries compiled by a Telegraph re
porter, showing that more than sixty
homes were robbed and attempts were
| made to enter many other residences
since June 1.
Residents of the city for weeks have
been in a state of consternation be
cause of the unchecked raids, which
usually develop over each week-end.
[Continued on Page 7]
GERARD SILENT
ON HIS REPORTED
PEACE MISSION
Declines Either to Affirm or
Deny Published Rumors of
Message From Kaiser
New York, Oct. 10. James W.
Gerard, American ambassador to Ger
j many upon his arrival here to-day de
j clined either to affirm or deny pub
\ llshed reports that he was returning
i to the United States on a peace mis-
I sion on behalf of the Emperor of
| Germany.
Mr. Gerard's attention was called
i to a story which appeared this morn
ing in the New York World to the ef
fect that his errand was to inform j
the administration that a renewal of!
submarine activity is being considered
by Germany in a manner which might
[Continued on Page 0]
Woman Bootlegger and
; Companion Shot; 3 Others
Hurt in Mountain Fight
! Chattanooga, Tenn., Oct. 10. A
I fight in the Oumberlano mountains
| near the Kentucky line between al
leged bootleggers and A force under
Sheriff Livingston of Fentress county,
| was reported to-day from Jamestown.
| Mrs. Allen Huddleston and Schuyler
j Hicks were killed and Allen Huddles-
I ton and Clifton Beatty were mortally
! wounded.
j Sherman Orabtree, a deputy was
I slightly wounded. The reports say
; Sheriff Livingston with a warrant for
the arrest of Mrs. Huddleston yester
day met her party with a wagon load
of liquor on a mountain road and
when they were ordered to surrender
they opened fire with rifles.
FIRE IN JUNK YARD
ENDANGERS BLOCK
OF FRAME HOUSES
Under a low-hanging pall of yel
low smoke, city firemen fought half
blindly nearly all afternoon to save
from total destruction by flames the
thickly populated quarter block of the
Seventh ward, bounded by Verbeke,
allace and Currant streets and Adler
alley.
The fire, so far as could be learned
at a late hour this afternoon, origin
ated in the junk yard of the Keystone
Iron and Metal Company, 659 Ver-
GERMAN U-BOAT
HAS DROPPED
OUT OF SIGHT
Disappearance and Mystery
Surrounding Present Location
Increases Precautions
New York. Oct. 10.—A day and night
without further "ws of the U-53 has
not quieted ar of the anxiety in
shipping-circles caused by the activity
of the submarine commerce raider at
the bend of the great North Atlantic
highway oft Nantucket. If anything,
the disappearance of the German
|T-boat and the mystery regarding her
present location increased the pre
cautions taken by owners and agents
of vessels of the entente nations.
Transatlantic liners and freight
steamers approached this port to-day
[ConUnued on Page 11]
FRENCH STRIKE
BLOW SOUTH OF
SOMME RIVER
Swing Across Stream; Great
Battle in Volhynia and
Galicia Rages
Increased activity south of the river
Somme is reported by the French war
office. For some time the main efforts
of tht French and British have been
made north of the river, but last night
the artillery was unusually active on
the front between Deniecourt and
Lihons. This may be the prelude to
another blow below the river, in ac
cordance with the French policy of
swinging the attack back and forth
from one side of the river to the other.
Although the great battle in Vol
| hynia and Galicia apparently is con
tinuing with the same ferocity that
has marked the fighting since the new
Russian offensive began, Petrograd re
ports that nothing of importance has
occurred. Berlin is almost equally un
communicative and few details are
permitted to reach the outside world
of this campaign, which represents the
supreme effort of the Russians this
season to break the Austro-German
line and capture Lemberg.
The Bulgarian war office acknowl
edges that Serbian troops have forced
a pessage of the Cerna river in Greek
Miuecjonla. It says the Serbians were
subletted to a counter attack and that
the fighting continues. According to
the French war office, the Bulgarian
[Continued on Page 9]
FROST TO-NIGHT
Mercury Will Fall to 30 Is the Local
Weather Forecast
Frost is due to-night. The tempera
ture will also go down to 35 degrees.
It will be the coolest night since Fali
started. According to the local weather
i forecast to-day the frost to-night will
be heavy.
■ beke street.
Cause a Mystery
i The cause was a mystery although
! it is believed that some waste paper
i and other debris which had been piled
In one corner of the yard had been
set fire by workmen who were melting
the Insulation from copper wire.
The damage is problematical, al
though it is figured that 12,000 will
{Continued on I'age 9] (
Admirers of Former Governor and Justice Throng Plaza
of Pennsylvania Railroad Depot; Prominent Men on
Local Committee Which Met Great Leader Here on
Way to Hagerstown to Address Meeting
Accompanied to Harrisburg on Special Train by Senator
E. E. Beidleman, State Committeeman Frank A. Smith
and Col. Charles E. Covert; Sorry He Cottld Not
Speak, but Extends His Greetings to Great Throng
Harrisburg gave a splendid greeting to Charles Evans Hughes,
epubhcan candidate for president, when he passed through the
city this afternoon on his way to Chambersburg and Hagerstown.
A' . s was lina ble to make a speech because his physician had
ordered him to conserve his voice for his engagements, but he spoke
briefly 111 appreciation of the big outpouring of people from the city
and vicinity who jammed the Union Station plaza and cheered him.
TJ • exceedingly sorry that I can not speak to the people of
i amsburg, said Mr. Hughes as he left the train. "I wish I could,
but my physician has ordered me not to do so. But I want to erect
the people here."
Mr. Hughes came from Philadelphia where he had addressed the
big meeting last night and was accompanied to this city by Senator
P "C'dleman, 1-rank A. Smith, State committeeman, and Charles
, Covert When his train arrived Spencer C. Gilbert, chairman of
the reception committee, waited on him at his car in company with
State Treasurer Robert K. Young, Secretary of the Commonwealth
Lyrus E. Woods, E. J. Stackpole and William M. Hargest, who
escorted the nominee to the station.
The train platforms were filled with
people from trains in the station who
wished to greet the candidate and the
upstairs platform and the waittng
rooms were so Jammed that a couple
of dozen policemen had to work to
keep the throngs from getting in the
path of the candidate and his party.
The appearance of the candidate was
the signal for cheers and the crowd
which was packed about the station
f
MAIN HALL OF UNIVERSITY BURNING
Mndison, Wis;., Oct. 10.—The main hall of the Univcrs
ity of Wisconsin, a stone structure witp wood interior and
.t the in ... biiii'i:.', s at the institution utui'.bt tire this
morning. Tne entire nre department of the city has been ' f
. summoned. A gale is blowing and the fire is spreading,
j s TWO NEW PASTORS FOR CITY f
Harrisbiirt? --Two new pastors were assigned to Har
j risburg whrn the appointments of the Eldership of i J
! Church of God were announced this afternoon. The Ri
■ Hoi . .. New York, succeeds the Rev. F. I, M. < >
Churjch. The Rev. li.
, succeeds the Rev. C'. H. Grove at , >
street The Rev. ,Mr. Thomas is transferred to -
' t '■ 'Ugh. and the Rev. Mr Grove to Enhaut.
* * New York, Oct. 10.- -The unfilled orders of the United '
I >n on September 30 stood at 0,622,584,
' ' mparcd with those of August * J.
] 1 ' : t' ■ ■ i • • . '
4,000 GREET HUGHES AT CARLISLE
!C people gathered at the Carlisle < |
station to f.reet Charles E. Hughes. It was one of the i
most notable political demonstration held in the town in | ►
yt ari. T Di- -.msou Collect. Student Club, Dickinson
Law School and Conway Hall turned out, with a tig ,
representation of the Carlisle Carlisle Indian School. 1 JT
T Indians had then bands and . ave Hughes a rousing ;,rect- .
# ing. Mr. Hughes stopped the train and shook hands with, >.
I I hundreds.
I , 14 NEW TYPHOID CASES ,
4 P Harrisburg.-k—Fourteen ne(v cases of typhoid fevtr were 1 '
I reported in the city to-day, making a total of 108 cases for
J i October. ' *
Christiania, Oct. 9. - A Russian' torpedoboat yesterday
< f sank two Gennan submarines after the had 1
attacked the Russian wireless station at Sepnavolak on the
Murman coast. Several persons were killed by the gun I |
fire of the submarines.
; 1 '
MARRIAGE LICENSES < >
Ueome Aaron Glentncr and Ada Sophia Ingram, litncaitcri
irJVn H\fVii H I U VI) II |
16 PAGES CITY EDITION
took up the acclaim when the smiling
face of the New Yorker appeared.
There was something like the man
ner in which the redoubtable Colonel
charges to a platform about the way
Mr. Husrhes rushed out to the edge of
the carriage platform. "I wish I could
make a speech, but X cannot do so."
said he to Mr. Gilbeit.
[Continued on Pnme 4]
