B Journal fi ,' "J-'Hr a IbbS
1 2111 tye omx Mtynblxmu. bhs ' ii
I JpAG5 LOGAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1916 FOURTEENTH YEAR f
I SENATOR SUTHERLAND AT NIBLEY HALL WEDNESDAY NIGHT I
I VIEWS OF WELL INTENTIONED MEN
B
I DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE PARTIES
I WHICH ONE WILL YOU CHOOSE?
H Difference between the two big par-
fj ties. WHICH WILL YOU CHOOSE?
S Every industrious person is a pro-
IJ duccr. One man produces labor, an-
m other employes labor and produces
IE various products, transportation or
H exchange. Anyone who in any tnan-
MB tier contributes to the sum total of
flM our production or to the grand ag-
IJ grcgatc of our commerce is a pro-
MJ duccr.
Ml We are all consumers. We con-
Mj sume necessaries, or comforts, or
M luxuries, or extravagances. We have
HM dual interests and may be appealed
B to from opposite angles. We like to
MB buy what wc consume as cheap as
flj possible.
flMj The Democratic Party always ap-
Mfl peals to the voter from the consumer
fl angle and say the one thing needful
HM to make him prosperous and happy
HM is cheap things to consume. Wc ap-
HM peal to him from the producer angle
IS and tell him the one thing needful
Hfl is a good price for what he produces
whether it be labor or some resultant
I REPUBLICANS
I SHOULD GET
I TOGETHER
SlJ
MM Tho election la a llttlo less than
H three weeks ahead, tho most Irpor-
MM tant election slnco tho Civil War. It
HE Is time for Republicans to cease
HJ their bickerings and get together.
HJ This Is not a personal campaign and
HJ wherein any one seeks to make It
Bflj so, or elovato a personality, that per
HJ son should bo shown tho error of
BBJ his way. It Is tho same old fight,
HJ against tho same old enomy, and bo-
H causo conditions nro not normal Is
HJ no reason why Republicans should
HM rest on their oars. Go after tho Dom-
flj ocrats and beat them, Is the bIok-
IH
BJ "It Is neither tho past nor tho
HJ present, but tho lmmedlato futuro
M that should hold first place In tho
HJ minds of American citizens at this
H critical time," and surely an per
il son who believes In tho principals
BJ of tho Republican party can not llg
BJj ureout any manner of means wbere
HJ hy tho Democratic party under Its
BM policies and principles can servo tho
people or tno United States with ef-
HJ ficloncy In tho lmmedlato future.
MB It Is truo that our foreign trvlo
BJ is making a high record. Wnllo tho
H figures aro oxtromoly gratifying, an
analysis of tho distribution or our
HJ exports indlcato that tho greater
BJ part of our trade Is still with Great
BJ nrltal nand Franco, and our In
BJ creaso In business Is In commodities
BJ generally classified as war supplies.
BJ No ono disputes a temporary pro3-
porlty In our land today. Hut It Is
HJ sectional Jn Its factory nspect, ub-
normal in Its fevered rush, fictitious
BJ In Its ossoutlals and perverting In
H Its tondoncy. Worso It Is tho gold
Bj sluiced from tho river of blood, pour
ed out by tho horrifying sacrifice of
BJ millions of our followmen. nod for-
bid that wo should boast a pro3per-
Uy wrought In such w.ista of hu.ni
BJ an llfo.
BJ Whllo times are good .to to npoak
m they are moro than counter oilanc-
Cf d through tho high cuU or living.
- I Go to ny morchant In Logan City
' H atul ho WH1 toll you that prU-ijs on
'' gfl his genoral stock have nrtnnced
from 20 to 40 per cent. Tho only
' H H""erenco between tho laut Donio-
cratlc Administration under (Irovtr
') clovolanl and tho present Doino-
BJ cratlc Administration uuhr Wood-
BJ row Wilson Is that uudtfr Grover
' 01evolantl wo "d not hnvo (no mon-
I ey WltU wh,ch t0 bu3ri wllll unJ,r
P' I AVoollrow Wilson wo have tho mon-
ev. gold sluiced from tho river of
H hlood Incident to a foreign war nnd
BJ llvlnE and genoral coiumodltlca of
of labor. They promise l open wide
the doors of trade so that each may
buy where he can buy the cheapest ,
for it matters not, they say, who pro
duces, provided he gets it cheap.
Wc promise to compel the foreign
er who seeks to bring into our mar
ket the things wc produce with intent
to undersell us to pay a portion of
what he receives into our Treasury,
to help pay the expenses of our Gov
ernment to the end that the Amer
ican shall have a substantial advan
tage in his own market. They prom
ise the best market in the world in
which to sell. High wages and cheap
things made by labor arc incompat
ible. We can have cither but hoc
both. Each voter must consider
which is better for him or her.
I am aware that the Democratic
candidates sometimes promise the
farmer high-priced wheat and 'ie
laborer cheap bread, the prod'l'o
high-priced cattle and the consumer
cheap meat. That is what we must
expect of cheap politicians, but -'ic
can not deliver the goods.
trade are so high that It takes ill
our money and more to buy. .It Is
perfectly plain, to borrow a llttlo
from Woodrow Wilson, tra histori
an that peaco will change tho face
of trade, and that a "flood of Iiilt
Ish Imports will po'iv Into this coun
try In tho open rerts and that the
remedy will bo a vo'ti'H's tariff,
such as Alexanders. Hamilton had
wished to see at llrat, and tho vot
ers of tho United Stabst should sot
to It that a Kapubll'Mn ProVdent
and Congress Is elected Hint will
not hesitate to advocate ana estab
lish It. Therefore thero is abso
lutely no reason why. nny Republic
an should voto tho Domccrutlc tick
et. There Is no good reason why
any independent hIiouM voto thf
Democratic tlcko. an 1 thero aro
many reasons why Domocrats p'nould
voto the Republican ticket.
RICHMOND
Richmond, Oct. D. Tho rain, wo
have looked for for the last thw.e
months and ttut would h.iva boon
so welcome to the thirsting fjrnis
and dusty highways, has finally fail
en and tho ujual stormy "onfronce
v.cather has prevailed during tho
past week; bupngaln tha clmir blue
Blty of October is visible and hopvs
or n bright uu'l beautiful fall r.ro
entertained.
A great many of our poopl have
gono to Salt Lalto City to attend the
conference and state fa'r nnd by
tholr absence tho attondaiine .t the
Sunday School nnd sacrament moot
ing last Sunday nas vory sn.all. The
Parents class was unusual' Inter
esting, Principal Johnson giving tho
Ulblo lesson on Parnblea, after
which a profitable Jlscus-slon follow
ed. This class was woll attended.
Among tho confluence visitors
might bo montlonoa august Schow
and wlfo; J. W. Funk, S. W. Hen
dricks and wlro- Mrs. M. J. H.nrl
son, Mr. and Mrs. Lorov Tahln; Mr.
David Smith, Mr. and Mrj. Frank
Robinson, Mr. and Mrs, llodgnon,
Mr. and Mrs. Uto Grlllln, Mr. Iludd
Kgan, Mr. and Mrs. J. L. McCarroy,
Mr. John McCarroy nnd ton Earl;
Mrs. Nols Johnson, Mr. and Mrs. L.
E. Larson, Dishop T. II. Merrill nnd
M. Knapp.
A beautiful baby girl has arrive!
at tho homo of Mr. George O. Webb.
Mr. II. F. Olson met with a most
palnrul accldont last Thursday by
getting her hand caught In tho
eloctrirc wringer and before she was
abalo to remove tho hand It was roll
ed through almost to tho olbow. Tho
pain and swolllug that followod can
well bo Imaglnod. Mrs. Olson turnod
to provent her baby from gottlrg
closo to tho wringer and unconsci
ously she placed her own hand to
closo to tho rollers.
Advortlso In season and out.
WINNERS OF SPECIAL
PRIZES FOR EXHIBITS
CACHE COUNTY FAIR
Lady Persia, a holsteln cow own
ed by Mr. F. W. Whittle, of Rich
mond, won the $25 cash prlo offer
ed by the Utah Condensed Mtl'c Co.,
for the co wproduclng the most but
ler fat during two days of tlm Fair.
Lady Nanntt. n holstu n cow own
ed bv Mr. A C. Fisher of Richmond
won tho $2.1 rash 'prize o'.fi-red by
tho Dordcii ''on 1 jut.ii Milk Co. lor
tho cov produtj'Ug iho most in'llt
during two dav.i of din Fn'i
The cows finished as follows: Ladv
Persia, pounds of milk, 104.C, bit
ter fat, pounds, 3.73. Lady Nnnuet,
pounds of milk, 108. G, outt-ir fat,
pounds, 3.C2.
Tho contest was conducted by a
class of Prof. G. U. Calno of tho U.
A. C.
Conqueror, n porchoron stallion
owned by the Richmond Porcheron
Horse co. won ten dollars In merch
andise given by the Lundstroni Fur.
Co. for tho best draft stallion any
age.
Mrs. Orson Madsen of Logan
won one blue satin crepe Je chluo
dress given by Shamhart Christian
sen for tho best display of crochet
In tho sugar beet contest tho Am
algamated Sugar Co. will glvo ?15
for tho best five acres patch and ?10
for the best ono ncre patch. Tho
following entries have been niado:
Flvo acre patch Fred Johnson, Lo
gan, T. ILIlradshaw, Geo. F. Darley
Jno Reynolds, and P. JNI. Williamson
Wollsvllle; Louis Frank, Provi
dence, Webb Bros. Richmond; W. J.
dun. Ono acre patch: Alma Olsen
Funk, lienson; nnd S. Ogata, Men
don. Ono aero patch: Alma Olsen,
Lognn; Levi Cooper, Wellsvllle, J.
W. Porkes, Hyde Park, Francis Nel
son, N. Logan, and N. W. Nyman, N.
LLogan. Samples of tho patches
were on exhibit at tho fair and for
slzo nnd shapo of beets, Mr. W. E.
Nyman won 1st and W. J. Funk won
second. Tho beets will be tested by
Dr. J. E. Greaves of tho Utah Agri
cultural College and tho winners
announced later.
Miss Vera Teasdalo Hanson, Lo
gan won ono $5.00 coupon book giv
en by tho American Steam Laundry
for tho best pillow sham.
Matilda Hansen, Logan, won ono
set of Rodgers silver esert spoons
for tho best six dolles.
Mr. Henry Christofferson of Rich
mond, won 500 pouuds of steam rol
led barley given by tho Thatcher
Milling Co. for tho best holsteln bull
any ago.
Mr. Georgo Romnoy, Smlthfleld,
won C00 pounds of steam rolled
barloy given by tho Thatcher Milling
Co. for tho best Jersey bull nny ago.
Mr. Arthur Petersen, Hyde Park,
won ono pearl handled carving sot
worth $10 given by Everton & Sons
for tho b". draft t-iun owr 1&"J
pounds,
Ml33 Otl'lhi Johnbou, I.opnn, won
$10 In ninrcuatvlisn gi'.en by tho
llulrlu'r Music Co., for tho host
ovouini; 5.) n,
IK. L . Wlmo, Paradise, won ono
Shumate razor worth $3 given by
tho Cache Valley Drug Co., for the
best saddle horso, rlddon by a man.
Miss Florence Drltzelle, Logan,
won ono $5 coupon book given b
tho American Steam Laundry for
tho best white conterploco.
Mr.. Joseph Squires, Logan, won
flvo gallons of Kreso Dip given by
tho Co-op Drug Co., for tho best
Jersey cow, any ago.
Mrs. A. E. Anderson, Logan, won
ono coupon book worth $5 given by
tho Amorlcan Stoam Laundry for
tho best display of sofa pillows not
to oxceed four.
Mrs. Christine Pohrson, Logan,
won ono Hughes number 17 olectrlc
nuigo for tho best loaf of white
& Light Co.
bread, given by tho Utah Tower
Charles Purser, Donson, won one
$5 Ansco camera given by tho City
DrUg Co., for tho best grado filly,
undor ono year.
William H. Thaln, Logan, won
COij) pounds of crystal salt given by
th Inland Crystal Salt Co., ror tho
best Durham bull and GOO pounds
of crystal snlt for tho best Durham
cow any age.
Duano Porkes, Hyde Park, won
ono beet cultivator given by tho
Amalgamated Sugar Co., for first
prize In the sugar beet exhibit of
the Hoys' Club Work.
Wlllio Hrenchley, Wellsvllle, won
ono hundred pounds of Early Ohio
Idaho Russett, or Pearl potatoes,
given b the Cache Valloy Commis
sion for first prlzo In tho ,) .tat) ex
hibit of tho Hoys Club Work, rnd
Clarence Lot, Trenton, won ono
hundred pounds or Enrly Ohio, Ida
ho Russet, or Pearl potatoes given
by tho Cache Valley Commission
Tor the second prlzo In tho potato
exhibit of tho Roys Club Work.
.Miss Lovoll Kemp, North Logan,
won ono 16 quart LIsk preserving
kettle given by tho Lafount Hard
ware for tho first prlzo In tho can
ning exhibit In tho Girls Club Work.
Miss Loverill Kemp, North Logan,
won ono 13 quart Lisk preserving
kettlo given by tho Lafound Hard
ware Co., for tho second prlzo In
tho canning exhibit In the Girls
Club Work.
Miss Vera Kerr, Richmond, won
ono Eastman kodak worth $15 giv
en by tho Cardon owelry Co., for tho
best sewing exhibit in tho Girls Club
Tho Hyde Park Belgian Horso Co.
wonon o $5 coupon book given by
tho American Steam Laundry for
tho second best draft stallion any
ago or brood.
Agricultural Department
Best sugar beets, W. E. Nyman,
North Logan, first; W. J. Funk, of
Benson, second.
Best surchead cabbago, T. Hughes
Logan, second.
Best yellow dent corn, J. P. Jones
North Logan, second.
Best cantaloupes, J. V. Jonson, or
Ilyrum, first.
Best cucumbers, J. S. PehrAon,
Logan, first.
Best dried corn, J. W. Knowlos,
Logan, first; W. II. Walker, .Mount
Sterling, second.
Best pop corn, W. H. Walker, Mt.
Sterling, first.
Post dont corn, O. N. Ostlund, Lo
gan, second.
Best cantaloupes, W. H. Walker,
Mt. Sterling, second.
Best sweet corn, W. II. Walt
er, Mt. Sterling second.
Best cabbago. Danish Baldhcad.
Mrs. O. J. Hansen, Logan, first.
Best white flint corn, Authon
Pohrson, Logan, second.
Host yellow dent corn, J. C. Jen
son, Ilyrum, first.
Best oxhpart carrots, J. S. Pehr
son, Logan, first.
Best whlto flint corn, J, d.
Pohrson, Logan, first.
Best celery, Ola Larson, Logan,
first.
Best carrots, Danish soup, Ola
Larson, Logan, first.
Best cabbage, Danish Omooor, Ola
Larson, Logan, first.
Best cabbage, flat Dutch, Ola Lii
son, Logan, first.
Best cabbago, early Jersey wjko
flold, Logan, first.
Best corn, hill, G. N. Curtis, Lo
gan, first.
Best egg plant, Anthon Pohrson,
Logan, first.
Best hot herbs, Ola Larson, Lo
gan, first.
Best kale, Ola Larson, Logan first
Host inolons, W. II. Walker, Mt.
Sterlln, second.
Best mangols, J. C. Jenson, Ily
rum, first.
Best yollow onions, Odell Smith,
Smlthflold.
Best rod onions, Wlllard Hancey,
ilyilo Park, second.
Bost yollow onions, J. S. Hancoy,
Best oat sheaf, F. T. Johnson, Lo
Hydo Park, second,
gan, first.
Continued on Pago Four)
WILL HISTORY REPEAT ITSELF? 11
PRES. WILSON CONVICTS HIMSELF I
THIS ALONE OUGHT TO ELECT HUGHES I I
... . .1 , BBMJ
Tho Napoleonic wars ended 100 years ago, nnd just nt that tlmo tho j JBJ
Democratic party enacted a now tariff Inw. The rnto of duty collected jA
under that tariff was 22 per cent, while tho present Underwood tariff, with I ' fl
agricultural products fiee, Is running at this tlmo at less than 0 per cent I BJ
tho lowest In our history. In other words, tho Underwood tariff bill Is ,, . MM
twofold worso than tho Democratic net of 181G, tho evil effects of which )' I
nro graphically told by Woodrow Wilson In tho third volume of his History 1 BJ
of tho American People. I ' ' BJ
Peaco changed tho fnco of trade. English merchants poured tholr t I
goods onco ngaln Into tho Anierlcnn ports, so long shut ngnlnst them j Vfl
by embargoes and war. Manufactories had sprung up while tho ports
woro closed. In the year 1815 close upon $50,000,000 hnd been Invest- '
cd In tho manuracturo or textile rubrics alone. The now movement did :l
not stop with tho establishment ot cotton rabrlcs. Tho manufacture of I
wool and (lax and hemp and, oven silk was added. Irou manufactures,
long ago sot up, but tentntlvo and fccblo hitherto, Increased rrom huu- ,
dreds or thousands to millions in value under tho stimulation of for
eign trade cut off. Almost everything in general use In tho country ,,
was sooner or later added to the growing list. !
Industry, long ago, begun upon a small scale, took heart to grow, I;
and thoso which Americans had hitherto not dreamed of attempting ''
wero heartily embarked upon. Distinct manufacturing regions began 'j
sensibly to develop In tho Mlddlo States and in tho East, with Interests '
nnd characteristics which statesmen could not afford to overlook. It j
was manifestly Injurious to ovory young Industry that a Hood of Eng- J
llsh Imports should contlnuo to pour Into tho country nt tho open 1
ports. The remedy was n protective tariff, such as Mr. Hamilton had j
wlBhed to sco at first, and tho young Republican lenders of Congress f.
did not hcsltiita to advocate nnd establish It.
Is thero any reason to doubt that tho American farmer and tho Amorl- I
can laborer will bo as good protectionists nt the polls November next as j
Pror. Woodrow Wilson was when n truthful historian? If thoy arc, history '
will repeat Itself and again Republican leaders In Congress will not hesitate 1
to ndvocato and establish protection. By Senator Curtis of Kansas. f
RUNNING TRUE TO FORM 1
Still sweating over the victory of I
the Nou-partisiau ticket in I.ogau
City one year ago, the Journal is run
ning true to form. In its last issue it
took a thrust at the City Administra
tion on account of what it charged a
raise in taxes in Logan City, and
without the least effort to go into de
tail. Of course the Journal is sore
at the City Administration and has
been since long prior to the City elec
tion. It revealed its sore spots dur
ing the campaign and apparently has
not been able to purchase sufficient
balm to heal them. The facts are,
Logan City taxes, as far as the gen
eral fund is concerned will be lower
this year than they were one year
ago. Last year five mills were as
sessed, tiiis year two mills arc as
sessed, and the valuations have not
increased two and one half times.
Wherein any individuals taxes in
Logan City arc higher than last year,
if they arc higher, it is due to the fol
lowing levys which are an increase
over last year and are an absolute
necessity.
Electric light fund two and
one half mills.
State Road fund, one mill
Library, two tenths mill.
Sinking Fund, four tenths mill.
It would be well when the Journal,
even if it is sore at the City Admin
istration, seeks to criticise, that it
particularize as much as possible. At
any rate the City Administration is
making good and showing valuable
and increased assets. But how about
the County Administration? Did
you say it was the "do nothing"
administration?
Journal Cnllt Morrii a Traitor.
Ill a recent issue of the Journal,
that paper took occasion to call
Honorable Nephi L. Morris, Repub
lican candidate for Governor a trait
or, that is, it ilid it in this way. It
printed what pcrported to be an in
terview by an imaginary republican
wherein it quoted this republican as
saying he would "rather vote for a
Jew any time than a traitor," and
then goes on to say why he would
not vote for Morris. Of course
through publishing this imaginary
interview, acquiesing in it, the Jour
nal thus far is a party to the charge.
According to the attitude of the
Journal, there arc traitors and trait
ors. One who leaves the Republican
party, joins another party and then
conies hack to the Republican party
is a traitor of what the Journal and
its imaginary republican would call
the Morris type, one that the Journal
doe not like. One who leaves the
I
I Republican party, joins another par- i
ty and then goes into the Democratic j
j party is a traitor, the kind that the ' '
Journal and its followers do like. ;
In the same issue that the Journal
gave this imaginary interview, it also ' '
published an account of the Senator
Shafroth Rally, commenting upon it
in glowing terms. The Senator .is "
one of those traitors that left the ' J
Republican Party, joined the Pro- ,
gressive Party and is now affilliated I
with the Democratic Party. This is
the kind of a traitor the Journal likes. '
It will be remembered that two and J
four years ago the Democratic Party '
was swept into power throughout ,f"0
the nation, and in Cache County, wA
through the organizing of the Pro- ml
gressive Party and in Cache County ufl
through the fusing of the Democratic jMM
and Progressive Parties. It is the BM
Progressives that tiie Cache County MM
Democrats must thank for their vie- feiBl
tory and now that these Progressives MBJ
who put them in power see fit to . $SJ
join tho Republican Party, they are ,$
branded by the Journal as traitors. -m
Of couric the Journal docs not say BJ
so in so many words, but through in- jm
fercuce and the quoting of imaginary SjMJ
interviews in which it acquieses and BBJ
of which it approves. Just a distinc- MMj
tiou without any difference. Any- H
way from all appearances the type of Bfl
traitor that the Journal docs not like Bfl
will beat the Lagoon Millionaire. Bfl
fa mi
Keeping Baby Quiet. BkJ
One mother used u clever device to 9U
keep her ever-restless youngster from IHj
crawling nway nil tho time. Hho got a Em
largo soft grny blanket mid cut out &'
guy designs from tho nursery books, Hffjii
which she sewed on the blanket. The flffl
pictures wero mnde of llnon, from one IflTJ
of thoso linen children's books sold In HrJ
all tho shops. The bright pictures at-
trncted the chlld'a attention, and ho Mm
would sit for hours looking ut them Bflj
and picking ut them. A baby fenco S3
around tho rug completed the outfit. fifl
A Factlclout Cut. 'flH
Dave Mattson is a facticious cuss. JflJ
The other day a fellow totd hint Mr. BH
Bamberger was going to be elected Bflj
Governor. Dave smiled and said: B9
"You know I was a candidate for re- MMj
nomination as Secretary of State, and IJ
did not get it. I have been in the sal- flpj
oon business a short time and the H
people remembered it, and in con- Bfl
sequence of which I made a slim H
showing. Mr. Bamberger has been H
in the saloon business for many years Bfl
(and he will be elected just about like Bfl
: I was re-nominated." Bfl
