DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 176.
BARRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1910.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
THE
BARRE
DRASTIC ACTI
NOT EXPECTED
BY AMERICA
President Wilson Is Study
ing Evidence Collected by
U. S. Navy Department
Concerning the Submarine
Warfare Near the Ameri
can Coast Last Sunday
NO MORE ATTACKS
HAVE BEEN MADE
But Despite the Elapse of a
Day and a Night Without
a Further Appearance of
the U-53, Shipping Circles
Are Decidedly Fidgety
Over the Situation
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 10. President
Wilson gave his entire attention to-dny
to considering the facts collected by the
navy department regarding the German
submarine attacks on merchant ships off
the American coast. He had intended go
ing to Brooklyn to see the world series
game but changed his plans, shut him
self in his study and went over all the
evidence collected.
There was every indication that the
president had received no information
necessitating drastic action by the Amer
ican government. The president had on
hi.s program conferences with Secretary
of State Lansing and the French ambas
sador. It is believed that the American
government is giving serious consider
ation to the question of whether the at
tacks on merchantmen so near the Amer
ican coast do not constitute a virtual
blockade of American ports.
The position of the American govern
ment and its determination to make a
full investigation before acting was made
clear in the following statement given
out by the president:
"The government will, of course, first
inform itself as to all the facts that there
may be no doubt or mistake as far as
they are concerned.
"The country may rest assured that
the German government will be held to
the complete fulfillment of its promises
to the government of the United States.
I have no right now to question its
willingness to fulfill them."
Count Von Bernstorff, the German am
bassador, who came here yesterdav to
give the president a personal letter from
the German emperor on Polish relief, dis
cussed with Mr. Wilson the new activi
ties of German submarines. It was un
derstood that Mr. Wilson made it clear
that, while the American government
had no intention of interfering with the
legitimate activities of the submarines,
it, would insist on the strict observance of
the pledges given previously by the Ger
man government. The ambassador, while
expressing an entirelack of ollicial in
formation from his government on the
new submarine attacks, said Germany
had promised to conduct her submarine
warfare in accordance with the rules of
cruiser warfare.
The ambassador remained with the
president onlv 15 minutes and was smil
ing when he left. He declared he was
as much surprised as anybody when the
news of the sinking of the first British
ship reached him.
The ambassador said the letter sent
him by the commander of the U-53 was
of no importance and merely informed
him that the boat intended putting in
at Newport and leaving again soon aft
erwards. The ambassador was read the state
ment given out shortly before this by
President Wilson. He smiled as he heard
it and remarked: "That is very compre
hensive." He would make no further
comment.
lie declared that he had delivered to
the president a personal letter from the
German emperor on Polish relief. "What
the president said to me is for him to
give out." He added:
Questioned regarding the possibility of
peace, he said: :
"Well, it looks peaceful about here."
remarkably speedy rescue work Sunday,
said that the reports of nil his ollicers
agreed that to the best of their observa
tion one raider only was concerned. This
boat presumably was the German U-.".'!,
which called at Newport Saturday aft
ernoon to mail a letter to Ambassador
Bernstorff, and then put to sea without
taking on an'ounce of supplies, although
she was 17 days from her base, according
to the statement of her ollicers.
Admiral Glcaves said he could easily
understand the positive statement of the
captain of the Nantucket lightship and
of sailors of the torpedoed vessels that
more than one submersible was con
cerned. The U-boat, he said, was very
fast and appeared to have been handled
cleverly. It was easy, he pointed out,' for
her to disappear on one oi.Ie of a ship
and then show up unexpectedly at anoth
er spot. Doubtless, he believed, she had
submerged and reappeared often enough
to mislead any but a keen professional
observer and to create the impression
that more than one sea terror was op
erating. This opinion would seem to be
borne out by the statements of many
of the refugees that the submarine had
more business on hand than -she could
take care of at once and was obliged to
request one steamer to wait her turn
while another was being put out of coin-mission.
A NEW BLOW
BELOW SOMME
French Artillery Is Heavily
Bombarding the Ger
man Lines
MAY INDICATE
ANOTHER BLOW
Serbian Victory in Greek
Macedonia Acknowledged
by the Macedonians
LINERS COME TO PORT
BY WIDE DETOURS
Precautions Have Been Redoubled Fol
lowing the Disapearance of Ger
man Submarine Shipping
Circles Nervous.
London, Oct. 10. Increased activity
south of the river Somuie is reported by
the French war ollice. The artillery was
active on the front between Dcniecourt
and Lilions, possibly preluding another
blow below the river.
Although the great battle in Volhy
nia and Galicia apparently is continuing
with the same ferocity, I'etrograd reports
nothing of importance has occurred. Ber
lin is alo uncommunicative.
The Bulgarian war ollice acknowledges
that Serbian troops have forced the pas
sage ot the tenia river in Greek Mace
donia. It says the Serbians were sub
peited to a counter-attack and that the
lighting continues.
RUMANIANS RETREAT.
Austin-German Forces Have Occupied
Mountain Passes.
Berlin. Oct. in. font inning their ad
vance into Transylvania, the Austro
German troops captured passes in Har-
gitta and Carole mountains.
BULGARIANS LOSE TWO TOWNS.
New- York, Oct. 10. A dav and a night
without further news of the UMhas not ) British Captured Them and Defeated
quicieu anxiety in snipping circles caused
bv the activities of the submarine corn
merce raider at the bend of the great
north Atlantic highway off Nantucket.
If anything, the disappearance of the
U-boat and the mystery regarding her
present location have increased the pre
cautions taken by owners and agents of
vessels of the entente' nations. Liners
approached port by courses which carried
them far out of the customary lanes.
Exporters say the raid and the advance
in insurance rates will check shipments
to New York, and importers say that if
the raids continue American merchants
will draw on the European stock, worth
hundreds ot thousands ot dollars and
placed in warehouses as a precaution at
the outbreak of the European war.
Army Retired to Hills.
London, Oct. 10. Bulgarian forces op
posing the British in i;reek Macedonia
retired to the hills and the British cap
tured two towns, savs the war ollice.
DENIES CLOSED PORT
TO SUBMARINES
United States Refuses to Comply with
Contention of the Entente
Allies.
Washington, I). C, Oct. 10. The
RUSSIANS SANK
TWO SUBMARINES
Latter Attacked Wireless Station on
Murman Coast and Killed Several
Persons by Gunfire.
Christiana, Oct. 10. A Russian tor
pedo boat sank two German submarines
after the submersible had attacked the
Russian wirde-s station on the Mur
man coast. Several persons were killed
by the submarine gunfire.
NOT YET IN CONTROL.
But Advocates of Ruthless Submarine are
Gaining in Germany.
Berlin, Oct. 10. Declarations and coun
ter-declarations regarding the attitude
United Stutes has refused to accept the i of the center party toward the subma-
contention of th entente allies, urging! line question, tin; burning issue ot the
that neutrals denv the use of their liar
WELCOME HOME.
Guardsmen Given "Glad Hand" in Several
Communities.
St. Albans, Oct. 10. With a crowd at
the Central Vermont railway station so
large that it was with difficulty that pas
sengers alighted from the train, the mem
hers of Co, II, first infantry, . N. G
('apt. Charles K, Pell commanding, ar
rived, home yesterday afternoon at one
o'clock from Fort Ethan Allen, where
they have been since their arrival from
the border, where they went over three
months ago.
As the company formed on Lake street
Milton S. Bostwick led in three cheers
for the boys who were ready to die for
their country, and Captain Charles Ji,
Pell led in three answering cheers for
the little old home town. Headed by the
St. Alhan Brigade band and members
of A. R. llnrlbiit post, No. ISO, G. A. R.,
the company inarched up Lake street to
Federal, over Federal to Kingman, up
Kingman to North Main, down North
Main to Fairfield and up Fairlield street
to the armory. Bells were rung, a small
cannon on Taylor park, manipulated by
Ernest H. Lewis, tireit salutes and all
along the line of march handclapping and
cheers greeted the bovs.
At the armory Co. B formed in line
and saluted the band as it turned to
inarch down the street. The members
of the company then formed in twos and
marched through, as the crowd parted,
to the doors of thp armory, where three
cheers were given by the Hurlbut post
members. Aajt.-t.en. lee S. Iillotson,
Maj. S. S. Watson and Maj. E. J. Mel
ville. St. .lohnsbury, Oct. 10. A compliment
ary banquet was tendered in Masonic
hall last night to Co. D, which returned
to St. Johnsbury Saturday night after
their service on the Mexican border.
Over .'!0t! covers were laid and practically
the entire company of 70 men attended.
At the lifter-dinner exercises Arthur F.
Stone presided and ihe following were
called upon to speak: Adjt.-Gcn. Iee
S. Tillotson of St. Albans. Rev. Paul IX
Moody, chaplain of the regiment. Major
K. .1. Melville. Major S. S. Watson, ("apt.
Herbert A. Wilcox of Co. ), Henry W.
Kllis, a former captain of the company,
Hon. Henry C. Ide, Elisha. May and Rog-1
er Williams. The affair was arranged by
('. K. Peck, Rev. Paul IX Moody. F. U.
Brooks. Klisha May and . F. Slone. The
banquet was served by the ladies of the
Eastern Star.
Rutland, let. 10. The members of Co.
A were served a chicken-pie supper at
Grand Army hall here last night by
Robert relief corps on their arrival home,
from Fort. Ethan Allen. The streets were
lighted with red fire when the guards
men marched from the train and the Rut
land band was out as an escort. It had
been planned to have a parade and a
banquet at the Shrine temple with speak
ing, but as the company members had
work to perform at the armory before
the members could go to their homes,
the affair was postponed.
GERARD HOME
ONCE MORE
American Ambassador to
Germany Reached New
York To-day
TWO OTHER STEAMERS
ALSO CAME TO-DAY
Cameronia, Fearing Subma
rine Menace, Took Ex
tra Precautions
New York, Oct. 10. The liner Freder
ick VIII, bringing James W. Gerard, the
American ambassador to Germany, and
the Cameronia and the Espagne with no
tables aboard arrived here safely. The
Cameronia came in with all her lights
except a small one on the foremast ex
tinguished on account of the submarine
menace.
The Cameronian received a wireless
warning Sunday that a submarine was
in the vicinity. Life boats were swung
out and life belts were distributed among
the OiO passengers, and the ship turned
its course six miles south to the three
mile limit.
The Greek steamship Tatris reported
that she sighted a submarine Monday.
CLOSE CALL FOR YOUTH
ALBANO WILL FIGHT
SIX-YEAR TERM
Barre Man Sentenced To-day to State
Prison for Shooting Luigi Cheruti
Will Take the Case to
, Supreme Court.
In Washington county court this morn
ing. Judge V. L. Fish, sentenced Eusebio
Alliano of Barre, who was convicted last
week of assault with intent to kill Luigi
Cliernti, to spend not less than six years
and not mora than ten years in the state
prison at indsor, 1 lie case will be tak
in to supreme court on exceptions, and
Alhano will be out on $,1,M)0 bail pending
Ihe outcome.
J. Ward Carver, counsel for the resiion
dent, pleaded for leniency because of the
circumstances existing in the case, going
into detail to show that Albano for tw
years had been separated from his wife
and family because of the compluining
witness and bnurdcr, Cheruti. Repeat
efforts had been made, asserted counsel
to have Cheruti leave the Albano home,
but without avail, and two years of
brooding and humiliation had resulted in
Mbano's act, the respondent using more
force than the law allows.
The state's attorney did not make any
specific recommendation as to the length
of sentence but believed it would be held
up as an example as to what a man
could not do in such a case.
BROOKLYN
SCORED IN 3D
Dodgers Returned to Home
Grounds with Record
of Two Defeats
WAS NEARLY 80 YEARS OLD.
BLAMES MOTHER-IN-LAW.
For Winning Away the Affections of
Her Husband.
Rutland, Oct. 10. An alienation suit,
in which the mother is alleged to have
won away her son from his wife, has
been brought in Rutland county court by
the firm of Lawrence, Lawrence & Staf
ford. Mrs. Cornelia Piper of West Rut
land is the plaintiff and Mr. Olive Piper
of the same town the defendant. Attor
ney Joseph C. Jones represents the de
fendant. Mrs. Piper in her declaration claims
hors to all submarines,
chantships or warships.
whether mer-
RESCUED REACH NEW YORK.
,i . (... : - j -i - i -i i it:
W lr tho sitnulin.. fnv Tl,r ' nt. siiewasniH rriec: io v im r ie i i wr in
is 'a cloud of uncertainty as to" how theMn"treal August 1012 and that they
clerical members of the Reichstag, who liv,rt hPP'.v the C anadian city and in
Said 36 Shots Were Fired at Stephano
Before Steamer Sank.
New York, Oct. 10. Twenty-nine wom
en and 14 children, survivors from the
Red Cross line steamship Stephano, sunk
Sunday by a German submarine off Nan
tucket, arrived here late yesterday and
were taken in charge by representatives
of th Amrican Red Cross.
The passengers aureeil that .')(! shots
were fired at the Stephano before she
was torpedoed and sunk. Mrs. Charles
W. Host wick of Hudson. N. Y., who was
returning from Nova Scotia, said eight
hold the balance of power, will vote on
the decisive ballot regarding the eon
duct of the war. The Centrist parlia
mentary correspondent declares as un
justified the announcement of Local An
zciger that enough clerical deputies have
broken away to give a majority perhaps
to the side favoring submarine war.
A COLORLESS CABINET.
Has Been Formed in Greece by Professor
Lambros.
West Rutland.
In January, 1914, it is claimed the
mother of Mr. Piper "connived and
schemed" and finally succeeded in taking
Mr. Piper from his wife and two chil
dren. The plaintiff seeks to recover dam
ages of $2,(iOO.
When His Bicycle and Automobile Col
lided To-day.
An automobile operated by John L.
Kogcrs passed over Frank Gove, the
young son of Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Gove of
Eastern avenue, on lower Washington
street tins morning while the lad was on
his way home from the postofhee. A bi
cycle which the boy was riding was par
tially demolished, but the rider had an
almost miraculous escape from serious
injury. Passersby joined Rogers and E.
L. lute, his passenger, in carrying (Jove
to the office of Pr. O. (I. Stickney. near at
hand, where an abrasion on the left
shoulder and arm and other minor in
juries were dressed. Afterward the bov
was taken to his home, where at noon it
was said that he was recovering from the
shock attendant upon the accident.
A number of people passing along
aslungton street witnessed the acci
dent. The Rogers boy had just guided
his car across the track, it waa said, to
the south side of the highway, prepara
tory to continuing along CSiurcIi stret to
the postofhee, Young Gove was pedaling
along ChuMi street with a view to as
cending the Washington street rise be
fore turning into Academy street. Evi-
lently each misunderstood the other's in
tentions, for the bicycle turned toward
the path of the auto and the auto turned
toward the cyclist, in making the swing
into Church street, almost at the same
moment. A mudguard or fender is be
lieved to have struck Gove on the left
shoulder, throwing him to the ground.
Apparently the car passed over him, al
though the wheels did not touch his body.
Rogers applied his brakes instantly and
stopped his car as soon as possible.
Alighting from the car they saw the
Gove boy crawling out from under the
rear of the machine.
Mrs. Vienna Bcckley Bowles Died Last
Night at Home on Beckley Hill.
Mrs. Vienna Beckley Bowles, wife of
the late David Bowles, passed away at
her home on Beckley hill Monday night
at 11:20 oclock. Mrs. Bowles was near
ing her 80th birthday and had been in
failing health since February, death re
suiting from complications. She is sur
vived bv her sister, Mrs. L. M. Averill
and by her brother, Fred O. Beckley, both
of Barre. There are also left several
nieces and nephews.
Mrs. Bowles was born Vienna Beckley
March 20, 18.17, on the old Beckley home
stead, the eldest child of Luther D. Beck
lev and Ixvila (Goodale) Beckley. Her
marriage to David Bowles took place in
Barre Sept. II, 1855. One child, a son
was born to them, and died in infancy
Eleven years ago Mr. and Mrs. Bowles
observed their iWtth wedding anniversary
The death of Mr, iwiwles occurred Nov.
22. 1!X0.
The deceased was a woman of many
fine qualities, not the least of whiehwag
her desire always to be extending her aid
to others. She was an attendant at the
Methodist church.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Rev. B. G. Lipsky, pastor of the Hed-
ding Methodist church, will be the offi
ciating clergyman.
LOIS LAVI0LETTE.
RECEPTION THIS EVENING
CAUGHT IN STORE.
Youth is Charged with Robbery at West
Enosburg.
St. Albans, Oct. 10. Raymond Shar
London. Oct. 10. Telegraphing from j low, 10 years old, of West Enosburg,
Athens, Renter's correspondent said that ' son of Frank Sharlow, was arraigned be
Professor Lambros had formed a cab-'fore Judge N. X. Post in city court yes-
iinet, including Lambros and Premier Za-iferdav. charged with breaking into W.
'i ...,.. i nf f, uT.,;,.a r ,,.:..,. ... :.. i. ' w-....i..
. i . , , ., , , mm iim,ii.?ii i ,m H'U elu ""u'i3 Jl. 1 M I L d sunt- 111 uiai I'miv -4iiiu,iav
minutes elapsed between t ie submarine s , , , . , . , . ' ..-,,,,
.. . , 1 . , . ., .,, , . (The correspondent describes this as po-Ink-lit. He was bound over in SoOO for
litically the most colorless cabinet Greece j appearance at the March term of Frank- i convention is to hold its sessions. Rev.
has ever known. !iu county court. In defaut of bail he i B. G. Lipsky will speak in behalf of the
was remanded to jail
first and second shots, then the captain
ordered everybody to take to the life
boats. She said the officers did every
thing to help the passengers.
"We women and children were particu
larly frightened over the prospect of
going down over the side of the steam
er into the lifeboats," Mrs. Bust wick
said, "as we had only 15 minutes to get
off the ship.
Ihe submarine went up to within 300
Will Open the Vermont State W. C. T. XT,
Convention in Barre.
The advance guard of more than 150
delegates and workers who are expected
here for the 42d annual convention of
the Vermont W. C. T. U. began to arrive
in Barre this afternoon and early evening
trains were expected to swell the ranks
of organized temperance workers who are
to represent many chapters in the state
at a three-day gathering. Although the
convention proper will not open until to
morrow morning at 9 o'clock, the Ida
Read chapter of Barre will give a recep
tion this evening in the parlors of the
Deciding Methodist church, where the
Only Daughter of Mrs. Stella Laviolette,
Died This Morning.
Miss Lois Laviolette, the onlv daugh
ter of Mrs. Stella L,aviolctte of 04 North
Main street, this city, died at the .borne
of her grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Laviolette, in Shelburne this morning.
Miss Laviolette had been ill some time
with tuberculosis. She was 15 years of
age and would have entered high school
this fall if her health had permitted.
rhe funeral will be held from the home
of her grandparents in Shelburne at noon
on Thursday, Oct. 12. Autos will -meet
the morning train from Barre at Burling-
on to convey relatives and friends to
Shelburne on Thursday morning.
ANOTHER SETBAC7
WOULD BE :ArALi
Weather Was mostf Too
Cool for 7 yers and
Spectators
Inns 123456789
Bost. 0 0 O0EnCCCZ2
Brk. o o i dczzzhzi
Ebbetts' Field, Brooklyn, Oct. 10.
Mays and Thomas and Coombs and Mil
ler were announced as the batteries for
Boston and Brooklyn, respectively, for
the third game of the world series here
this afternoon. The lineup of the two
teams was as follows)
Brooklyn. Boston.
Myers, c. f i.. Hooper, r. f.
Daubert, lb lanvrin, 2b.
Stengel, r. f... Shorten, c. f.
Wheat, 1. f Hoblitze, lb.
Cutshaw, 2b Lewis, 1. f.
Mowrey, 3b Gardner, 3b.
Olson, sa Scott, ss.
Miller, c Thomas, c.
Coombs, p Mays, p.
TALK OF THE TOWN
SHOWS GOOD GROWTH.
National Life Insurance Co. Gets Satis
factory Reports.
The regular quarterly meeting of the
dint-tors of the National Life Insurance
Co. occurred this nioruinsj at the home
yards ot the Stephano anil tired a tor- office, Pres. Howland presiding. The tol
pedo into her, her last torpedo, as one Rowing directors were present : William
of the submarine's officers told one of tiie ! p. Dillingham of Waterbury, William W.
Batch's oflieirs later by signalling. isthincy of Ludlow, George Olmsted of
"The most thrilling sight of all was Cleveland. O.. Charles P. Smith of Birr
when the Kingstonian was torpedoed and linrton. Charles W. Gammons of Boston,
sent to the bottom. We saw that very j Frank C. Partridge of Proctor, Henry
Money had been missed from the store
at different times and men were sleep
ing in the store and caught Slmrluw
when he is alleged to have made a break
Saturday at midnight.
KINGSTONIAN'S CREW
MISSING TWO DAYS
Eleven U. S. Torpedo Boat Destroyers
Have Been Sent Out in Search of
Men Who Abandoned Their
Vessel at Command of
German Submarine.
Newport, R. I., Oct. 10. The crew of
the British freight steamer Kingstonian,
missing since Sunday when its members
abandoned their ship at the order of the
raiding German submarine, has not been
heard from to-day. Eleven torpedo b"at
destroyers have been dispatched to Nan
Imket Shoals to continue the search.
There has been no further report of the
submarine.
plainly, for when the submarine had
trouble in sinking the Stephano they
turned their attention to the Kingstoni
an, and as it was still light we saw her
hit. She crumpled up and went down
like a stone."
HUGHES SCORES BLACKLIST.
Declares No American Exercising Only
American Rights Shall be Listed.
Philadelphia, Oct. 10. Charles E.
Hughes, in a speech at the Metropolitan
opera house here last night, vigorously
assailed the administration for its for
eign and Mexican policies and outlined
the Republican party program, in two
respects as follows:
"We do not propose to tolerate any
improper interference with American
property, with American mails or with
legitimate commercial intercourse
Russell Piatt of Chicago, Clarke C. Fitts
of Brattlelmro and Fred ,. Howland,
Harry M. Cutler, Osmau D. Clark and
Arthur B. Bisbee of Montpelicr.
New Business $22,304,000.
The reports received ami disposed of
by the directors indicated that the com
pany is experiencing a prosperous year
in all branches. During the period of
writing to Oct. 1 the largest volume of
new insurance for the same period was
issued. .S22.304.UOO, bringing the total
outstanding insurance to $211,470,731
This is an increase in outstanding insur
SCHOOLS ORDERED CLOSED.
Because of Infantile Paralysis in Village
of Brandon.
Brandon, Oct. 10. On account of a case
of infantile paralysis in town, the child
having been taken ill in one of the grades,
the graded school has been ordered closed
for two weeks. This order does not af
fect the schools outside of the village.
On account of the infantile paralysis
scare, the teachers in the graded school
will not attend the teachers' convention
to be held in Burlington this week.
WOMEN BELLIGERENT.
New York Police Had to Use Revolvers
and Use Night Sticks.
New York, Oct. 10. After speeches had
been made by women relatives and svm-
ance since last October of if 0.530,000 and j pathiers of the striking car men at a
an increase in the writing of new bus- meeting here late esterday, a riot start
iness this year amounting to $3,355.500. -ed which the police were able to quell
Large Payments to Policyholders. ("nlv by tiring their revoUers in the air
'aim i r, it.- m i, iitiib ntn .
churches and other welcoming messages
will be delivered as follows: For the
schools. O. K. Hollister; for the Woman's
club, Mrs. Alexander Duncan; for the
citizens. C. S. Andrews; for the W. C.
T. V., Mrs. Grace Waterman. Mrs. G. E.
Davidson of Newfane will give the re
sponse fnr the convention and a short
musical prelude will be followed by an
address by Miss Mary F. W. Anderson
of Boston.
Rollcall and reports of officers will oc
cupy a major part of the time at the
opening session to-morrow. There are 01
local unions in ermont. with a member
ship of 2.128. The officers are: Presi
dent (honorary), Elizabeth B. Lund of
Burlington; president, Mrs. Minnie L.
Pearsons of Orleans; vice-president, Mrs.
Gratia E. Davidson of Newfane; corre
sponding secretary, Elsie u. Pease of
Swanton; recording secretary, Mrs. Ellen
B. Turner of St. Johnsbury; treasurer, L. j
Grace Prior of Morrisville; auditor, Mrs.
Ines Stewart of Morrisville.
FUNERAL OF ARTHUR ISABELLE.
Was Held at Granfteville Monday, with
Interment in New Cemetery.
The funeral of Arthur lsabelle, the 1(5-vear-old
son of Mr. and Mrs. Napoleon
lsabelle of upper Graniteville, whose
death Friday followed injuries received
Mr. and Mrs. George Tracy of Chelsea
were among the business visitors in the
citv to-dav.
Myer Bluestone of Bennington is
spending several days in Barre and sur
rounding towns on business.
Miss Frances Sheldon of St. Albans
arrived in the city last night and will
visit at the home "of Mr. and Mrs. IL C.
Sheldon of Merchant street for a few
da vs.
Miss Ruth Noreross of Watcrbury ar
rived in the city last night and will visit
at the home of Mrs. Frank G. Howland
of French street during the next three
week s.
Odd Fellows who are members of the
13th district began arriving in the city
this afternoon for the meeting to be held
in the rooms of Hiawatha lodge this
evening at 7:30 o'clmk. Representatives
were expected from Cabot, Plainheld,
East Barre, Williamstown and Washing
ton.
A chimney fire in the house at ft Maple
Grove brought the fire truck to the door
this forenoon at 10:40 o'clock. Smoke
filled the upper rooms in the house, but
the danger of a fire was neer threaten
ing. Chief Gladding left o:;e of the fire
men at the house to guari! against a sec
ond outbreak.
A song recite 1 open to the public at
Howland hall Tuesday evening, Oct. 10,
at 8 o'clock bv Miss Biekford, assisted by
Miss Forbes, reader, of Montpelier sem
inary faculty, begins the yearlv program
of the Barre Woman's club. Admission,
15c. Club members admitted upon pres
entation of membership tickets.
A man whose strange actions have
frightened South Main street residents
lately was detained bv the police last
night and this morning plans were made
for an examination. It was thought that
the man was suffering from dipsomania,
but physicians who were asked to visit
him at police headquarters expected to
make an expert diagnosis and report to
relatives of the man.
The electric car service between Mont
pelicr and Barre wa delayed late this
forenoon when a freight car became de
First Inning.
First inning, first half. Hooper died
out to Wheat. Mowrey threw out Jan-
vrin. Shorten singled past Cutshaw.
Hoblit.el singled to right. Shorten tried
to reach third and was thrown out, Sten
gel to Mowrey. No runs, two hits, no
errors.
First inning, second half. Mvers was
hit by a pitched ball. Daubert bunted
safely, Mvers going to second. Stengel
sacrificed. Mays to Hohlitzel, Myers go
ing to third and Daubert to Becond,
Wheat was purposely passed and the
hases were filled. Cutshaw forced Myers,
Hoblitzel to Thomas. Mowrey lanned.
No runs, one hit, no errors.
Second Inning.
Second inning, first half, Lewis flief
out to Myers. Gardner sent a high fly
to Cutshaw. Wheat made a circus catch
of Scott's long fly. No runs, no hits, no
errors.
Second inning, second half. Scott
threw out Olson at first. Miller fanned
on three pitched balls. Scott threw out
Coombs. No runs, no hits, no errors.
Third Inning.
Third inning, first half. Thomas
popped to Cutshaw. Mays fanned,
Hooper singled through the box and was
out stealing, Miller to Cutshaw. No
runs, one hit, no errors.
Third inning, second half. Scott threw
out Myers at first. Daubert singled tr
t'ht. Stengel singled to left, Daubert
oing to second. Wheat flied to Lewis.
Daubert scored on Cutshaw's single to
right, Stengel went to third and Cutshaw
to second on the throw in. Scott threw
out Mowrey. One run, three hits, no er
rors. Fourth Inning.
Fourth inning, first half. Janvrin flied
to Stengel. Shorten singled over Mow
rey's head. Shorten out stealing. Miller
to Olson. Hoblitzel flied out to Myers.
No runs, one hit, no errors.
CUSTOMS FALL OFF.
But Total at St. Albans Was Much Larg
er Than a Year Ago.
St. Albans, Oct. 10. There was a,
marked increase in the amount of busi
ness done in the Vermont customs dis
trict during the month of September,
this year, as compared with the business
during the corresponding month last year,
but it was a considerable decrease over
August of this year. The imports were
$2,543,813, as compared with $1,!06,203 in
September 1015. and the exports were
.$5,025,324, as compared with $3,210,160.
Moose in Massachusetts.
sn oeewlent at the nuarries. was nelil , , ., .. .. ... . .. ,
Tl, ,,.,. , , tn ,,i;vl,.l.I..r j...v fn, - - - - i - railed on me entrai Vermont rai roan
X ' ZZ'U,"n ' Rix "rested in St. Sylvester's church in (.raniteville ! m.ar ,,,, ,Wr ,,, )aid that tb
land their beneficiaries during the nine j Mfw thp cr(jwd of hllndr,,d Wllg
iToniNs reaiotsi imp isiyp i-uoi u -Ij: ,fti
A woman hurled a milk bottle at
ONLY ONE SUBMARINE.
American nirhts shall be nut on anv
'blacklist by any foreign nation."
I In addition to reference to the seizure
I of American mails and the Briti-h black-
Engaged in Sunday's Raid on Shipping,!1'1 of American firms. Mr. Hughes re
c tt e rm- .called the unking of tne Lusitanii, re-
Says U. S. Officer. t .- ., it .- . i i -
1-Mi D,: ? ! -n.4 11 .......... i
"No American who is exercising onlv i .1 ' . , I.:"iiJ Vi
"mourn pam in 01 lurmis. . . . , .. , .
National has paid to it policyholders' , , , ,, ,
.: ...,-,,.? i,.n 01 l" irit-m.. r . c-, . cs n t-i - sum
Maintenance of the Dividend Scale.
nioned, and the women, joined by a num
ber of men, attempted to rescue several
An announcement was made that willipersons who had been arrested.
1k of intere-t to tin con.pany'sj policy -holder
everywhere, namely, that due to
iieech of Hivcpt.ince. that had the Amr-. t':e corr.panx's favorable experience this j
PROHIBITS BULL FIGHTING.
Newport. R- I., Vt. 10. The whole-ale
rairl on toreign snipping soutn ot Nan- K-an government ten no tiouh -tnat year it will maintain it IiIktM iliM.Vnd iCarrama Has Officially Abolished
UltKrl l!..liop .-oim.ij, nils III!- n o it uj 1 Hi orn " smhi Mini .111 e;illMitill IT s'lll Jtr T!H C:. 1 If- 'munn Has
it
Monday morning jU 9 o'clock, the parish
priest. Rev. Joseph Turcot, officiating.
Many co-workers from the Boutwell,
Milne & Varnum quarry, where the boy
was employed, attended the services and
the floral" tributes included set pieces
from the quarrv workers and the com-
. , i i -
ipany. Ihe bearers were: .ioiin runrnier,
i Ernest Fournier, Leo LctourneHU, Arthur
j Letourneau, Omer Marcoux and Leo Mor
rin. Interment was made in the new
I Catholic cemetery at South Barre.
one submarine, according to report of j meant precisely what we said." there 'adi.j.:.-! for p ivro jit and crer! t to pol
An.cricar. n.;val oliieers. Rear A Imir.u J w. uld have lieen no cie-t r,ii t ion ot Amcr
AHit ilcacs. commanding the torpedo jican live by the sinking of the Liislta-bt-at
destroyer flotilla, which did ud!r.i:.
I Hughes Off on Another Western Trip.
electric cars could not pass. The 11
o'clock car out of Montpelier for Barre
was held up for 20 minutes while the
freight car wag, being restored to the
iron.
Pursuant to instructions received t
the council session last week, a special
committee of aldermen, headed by May
or Gordon, will report at the hcrmanic
session to-night on the feasibility of
completing the granite memorials that
flank the entrance to city hall. The com
mittee was isked to canvass entiment
among Grand Army members and others
Through Mexico.
i y 'oi.'.is : j-i.4-T.';ni m mi eicni, next .Mexico ity, u-i. l". larranxa nasj riiilxlflphia, ci. i". nrics r.. on tne matter ot insnning me granu:
tir. Th;s is the largest dividend de- published a decree prohibiting bull fight- Hiichea left to-day for Hagerstown and 'slab with the names of Barre men who
cUrcd by the company in its history. in throughout Mexico. Baltimore on his western trip.
enlisted in the war between the etatea.
That a big cow moose, attempting tu
charge through a wire fence, should ac
tually break its neck in the town of Lee,
Mass., is to be noted as quite a wonder
ful thing not that the moose should
break its neck, for the barbed wire fence)
was quite capable of attending to that,
but that a moose should be found wild
in the southern-central part of Berkshire
county. East Lee, where the occurrence
took place, is a long way either from
the Adirondacks, where the moose is still
found, or from the Canadian forests of
the Northeast. This individual was man
ifestly the product of the benevolent at
tempts of private individuals to provide)
our eastern fore-sts with big game. Of
one thins, in connection with the return;
of moose, deer and in the Adirondack
the western elk, to our eastern moun
tains and forests, we may be glad that
the timber wolf dors not yet tend to
come back with the game upon which h
nrevs. Many people predicted that, with
the' mnltiplcation of deer, the big gray
wolf would return to New England, and
even to the Berkshire. But so far as
heard from, this prediction has not yet
been justified. Who will report the first
wolf in Berkshire county ! Boston Transcript.
Happy Idea.
The railway board had met to eonsid
er the case of old Tom Jones, who in
a train accident had become deaf.
"Well." said a director, "old Tom nil
been with us a long time, and we want
to find hira a new job. What do you
suggest "
"I know," aaid the chairman. "Let't
put him in charge of the complain ta de
partment." Tit Bita.
