1916
fl (3
VOL. LVI11. NO. 88
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1916
TEN PAGES
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation jn Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
.. - i T9ft - rr r.
fptt
GERMANS CONTINUE
STRIFE FOR VERDUN
Have Gained a Few Small Portions of French Trenches
East of Le Mort Homme
MFNIN LARGE NUMBERS HURLED AT FRENCH
Cabled Paragras
Portuguese Minis
Lisbon,' via Paris-
The Portuguese - -o nas reslS71e(l
as a result r' ,A .ences on the
question of - V J
political '
. il p. m.
jsed amnesty for
FAILEL . KILL HIS WIFE,
FATALLY WOUNDED HIMSELF
Tragic Act of Louis H. Wolter
Bridgeport, a Cigarmaker.
of
Embargoes To End
Friday Midnight
ON
NEW HAVEN ROAD, EXCEPT
AS TO EXPORT FREIGHT
Bridgeport, Conn., April 11. Louis
H. Wolter, 40 years old, a cigarmaker,
tried to kill his wife and himself in
their rooming house at 80 ' Cannon
strete this afternoon. He shot his
wife in the right thigh and the right
I shoulder, then fired a bullet into his
temple. He is dying in a local hos
pital. She is in the same hospital
but will recover.
In a note found in Welter's apart
ments he says that he intended kill
ing himself, as Mrs. Welter's first
i husband. Frank Ames, had done. Ames
Teutons Directing an Intense Artfflery Fire at Line Between & --J
. r i i l T el note for Attorney Dwight W. Tuttle
Le Mort Homme and Cumieres, rrobably rreparmg tor of Kast Haven, accusing Tuttie of
uicuiviiig up 111a uunii:. into. uuiin
said she had brc-Jght suit for di-
vorce a few weeks ago.
"I'll get you," Wolter said when she
saw him as she entered the place to
day. She ran down the stairs and he
followed, firing. Two shots took ef
fect, but she staggered down a second
flight to the street. Wolter -was
found unconscious in a room a few
minutes later.
' Mrs. Wolter had not seen him be
fore, in about two weeks. She con-
.1 . . -1 n nnn,inr Vl nnf n I. TTl
Germany and Rumania Have Entered Into a Compact for ven. a
DENIAL FROM FORMER
STATE SENATOR TUTTLE
Another Attack of Infantry In Counter-Attack in the
Region of Douaumont-Vaux the French Drove the Ene
my From Advanced Section of Trenches They Had Pre
viously Captured! German Offensive in the Region of
the Ikskull Bridgehead Was Stopped by the Russians
Exchange of Home Products.
The armies of the German crown . been busy at various points elsewhere
i , "i - . , -) . . -. nA t- r ; 1 1 ' t ' alnntr tho frnnt
prince jiruuuu , i i uun .j . -. . o - - i -(-) - - ......
Had Done Some Business For the Wo
man Who Was Shot.
ously on the offensive against the
French.
Having delivered at attack along the
line from Le Mort Homme to Cumieres
which netted them a few small portions
of French trenches on the east of Le
ore Homme, the German commanders
rested their infantry here; but in the
region of Douaumont-Vaux, northeast
of Verdun, threw their men in large
numbers against the French trenches.
Here again they met with success,
but only for a short period of time,
for the Frenc hin a counter-attack
drove the invaders from advanced sec
tions of trenches they had captured,
and in the operations took about one
hundred German prisoners.
While the Douaumont-Vaux attack
was in progress the Germans had not
forgotten the line between Le Mort
Homme and Cumieres and covered the
entire region with an intense artillery
fire, probably preparing for another at
tack by infantry.
Along the remainder o the front in
France and Belgium there were only
artillery bombardments. In one of
these north of the Aisne the French
guns caused eerlous losses to a strong
German column. on the march.
In the Russian theatre an attempt
by the Germans to take the offensive
in the region of the Ikskull bridgehead
was stopped by the Russians.
The big guns of both sides have
Petrograd reports that the Russians New Haven. Conn.. April 11. Form-
are continuing to gain ground against Pr state Senator Dwight W. Tuttle of
the Turks in the region of h,zerum. East Haven, when informed tonight
Unofficial advices are to the effect that 0f the contents of a note left for him
the Turks have regrouped their forces by Louis H. Wolter of Bridgeport,
and are now resisting stuhborniy tne made this statement:
three Russian main lines of advance "There is no truth whatever in the
into their territory. statement. I have done some busi-
The Austrians between the Adige and -prs for this ladv but there is no
Sugana valley have brought into the truth in the statement made by Wol-
campalgn artillery wmcn is aescrioea ter jt s only a matter of jealousy
by Kome as new ana very powenui. on v,;- rart.
Mr. Tuttle added that he had met
Mrs. Wolter only once or twice.
nterstate Commerce Commissioner
Clark Advises Shippers and Re
ceivers of Fright to Utilize All Cars
to the Fullest Carrying Capacity.
New York, April 11. Embargoes, ex.
cept as to export freight, will be vir
tually lifted on the New York, New
Haven and Hartford railroad at mid
night Friday, it was announced here
tonight. Embargoes on connecting
lines win De modified as nearly as
possible to conform with the action
Shipments in Moderation.
Interstate Commerce Commissioner
Clark, who has been participating in
me eastern ireignt accumulation con
ference, issued a statement in which
he declared that if shippers and re
ceivers or rreight desire to escape fur
tner embargoes on the New Haven line
they must arrange shipments in mod-
eratloft and utilize all cars to the full
st carrying capacity.
Remaining in Force.
The Xew Haven embargoes remain
ing in force are against several cities,
including Waterbury, Bristol, New
Britain and Hartford, as well as
against cotton consigned to Fall River
and Watuppa. Mass.. and a few indi-
idual concerns which have accumu
lation of freight on hand beyond their
present ability to unload.
Bituminous and Anthracite Co-I.
Bituminous and anthracite coaL
umber and cement will be limited to
one-third the average daily receints
from connecting lines during April,
iit.
The Italian guns, however, have re
plied effectively to the fire. No in
fantry attacks are reported in this
theatre of the war.
Germany and Rumania have entered
into a compact for the free exporta
tion from one country to the other of
home products for their own needs.
War material is excepted from the
agreement.
Greece, according to a semi-official
despatch from Berlin, has refused a
BELATED RECOGNITION
OF AM ARTIST'S MERIT.
Returns from Insane Asylum to Meet
Acclaims of Experts.
Xew .York, April 11. Ralph Albert
Blakelock, who as a struggling artist
request, qf the entente allies to be per- j became oroken in body and mind 1
mitted to bring troops from Corfu. to
Saloniki through Greek territory, as
serting that cholera prevails at Corfu.
The German reply to the inquiry of
the American government respecting j
the disaster to the channel steamer
Sussex is . now- in the hands of the
American ambassador at Berlin for
transmission to Washington. Germany
denies all responsibility.
CABINET DISCUSSES
SUBMARINE ISSUE
Outline of Future Course
Agreed Upon.
Has Been
Washington. April 11. The subma
rine Issue between Germany and the
United States was discussed in all its
phases today "at a meeting of Presi
dent Wilson and his cabinet.
A general outline of the future
course of the American government is
understood to have been agreed upon,
although a final decision was post
poned pending receipt of the German
note regarding the Sussex and other
merchant ships which recently have
met disaster and additional Vvidence
m the same cases collected by Ameri
can diplomats and due here Thursday.
It is known through confidential ad
vices from Ambassador Gerard that
the note from Berlin will deny that
any German submarine torpedoed the
Sussex and disclaim blame in connec
tion with other attacks about which
the ambassador has inquired. Con
sequently in spite of the convincing
evidence in the hands of the state de
partment any reply that may be sent
probably will not deal exclusively with
any one case or gro jp of cases.
if any communication is now con
templated is sent to Germany, it will
be designed to precEude the possibil
ity of further drawn-out diplomatic
exchanges and to make it plain that
reiterated assurances and promises
that international law will be respect
ed cannot protect the friendly rela
tions between the two countries if
illegal attacks upon peaceful mer
chantmen carrying Americans are con
tinued. It probably will include a re
sume of all the many vessels attack
ed from the time of the Lusitania
down to tha present.
SENATE PASSES SUBSTITUTE
FOR FREE SUGAR REPEAL
years ago and was sent to the Mid-
dletown 3tate hospital for the insane,
was freed today at the age of 70
years. He returned here to view the
paintings he was forced to sell for a
pittance but which had since been ac
claimed by experts the country over
as representative of the finest in
American art.
Blakelock, who went away with
scarcely a belonging, came back an
honored member of the National
Academy of Design. Accompanied by
Dr. Maurice C. Ashley, medical super
intendent of the asylum, he was re
ccived by a committee of artists at
gallery in Fifth avenue, where many
of his celebrated pictures, such as
Moonlight," owned by the Toledo
(Ohio) Museum of Art, and "The Old
Oak," were exhibited before him to
an admiring throng of art lovers.
Plans have been made by a number
of prominent artists, it was said
take care of Blakelock, his wife, daugh
ter and son, who was born on the night
the painter was taken to the asylum
He is to be provided with a cottage
near this city, where he may devote
the remainder of his life eo art
to
Extends Duty of One Cent a Pound
Until May, 1920.
Washington, April 11. The senate
late today passed its substitute for the
house free sugar repeal resolution ex
tending the present duty of one cent
a pound on sugar until May, 1920. The
vate was 40 to 32.
Four democrats. Senators Broussard,
Ransdell, Newlands and Lane, joined
the republicans in voting against the
substitute. They favor the fiat repeal
passed by the house. A sharp con
troversy in conference between the
two houses is predicted. Anticipat
ing that the house would insist upon
its resolution, Senators Simmons,
Stone and Lodpo were- named as the
senate conferees.
Unless a conference agreement is
reached and approved before May 1,
sugar will go on the free list until
such time as the repeal or extension
of the duty can be made effective.
Most of the tariff discussion today
did not touch upon the sugar issue.
which had been talked out yesterday, I phia, April 28 and 29. L. H. Healy,
out was aevotea to an amendment by secretary or tne state board or agri
benator works or California, to in- I culture was appointed by the govern
crease the tariff on lemons and other I or delegate to the national dairy
citrus fruits to one cent a pound. This I convention at Washington and Mrs. T.
MERIDEN TROLLEY CAR
ALMOST ENTERED SALOON
Mounted Sidewalk When Motorman
Temporarily Lost Contror.
Meriden, Conn., April 11. Bernard
M. Wetzel, a West Main street saloon
keeper, had a novel birthday surprise
:his afternoon when a trolley car was
derailed and mounted the sidewalk in
front of his saloon and came within
s, few inches of smashing his plate
lass window. The seven passengers
snd crew escaped without injury but
Frank Albert of New York city, a
motorcycle demonstrator, was struck
down and had to be taken to the hos
pital suffering with various bruises.
The motorman had temporarily lost
hold of the controller handle when
the car was proceeding on high power.
H. H. ROAD SIGNAL MEN
GET WAGE INCREASE
.bout 400 Men Will Get Five Per Cent.
More Pay.
New Haven, Conn, April 11. The
Brotherhood of Hallway Signal Men on
:he New York, New Haven & Hartford
r.ailroad announced tonight that the
company had agreed to grant an in
urease of five per cent, in wages. The
'ompany also agreed to a general re
rision of the working .agreement, to
wcome effective on April 14. About
100 men are affected.
Movements of Steamships.
Liverpool April 9. Sailed: steamer
Lapland, New xorK.
New York. lApril 11. Sailed
Uaamerqma. JflarfiflUlPS ... , office records syeje Jbtgrned.
APPOINTMENTS MADE BY
GOVERNOR HOLCOM
L. H. Healy Delegate to National
Diary Convention at Washington
Hartford, April 11. Governor M. H.
Holcomb today appointed Former
Attorney General J. H. Light of South
Norwalk .delegate to the annual meet
lng of the American Academy of Po
litical and Social Science at Philadel
was defeated by a vote of 44 to 29,
benator Phelan of California being
tne only democrat to support it.
r. vv. tjerara or south Norwalk was
appointed a delegate to the national
conservation congress at Washington
In May.
N MODERATE SHIPMENTS
Republicans Win
In New Britain
MAYOR QUIGLEY RE-ELECTED BY
VOTE OF 3,660 TO 2,086
CARRIED 5 OF 6 WARDS
One of the Largest Political Sweeps
in the History of the City Vote on
Mileage Amendment was 191 to 127
in Favor.
Condensed Telegrams
Unparalleled freight congestion Is
reported from the Great Lakes.
Canada is reported to be experi
encing a serious labor shortage.
Five Chinese warships stationed
at Canton have Joined in the revolu
tion.
A meeting of the Federal Reserve
Agents will be held in Washington on
May 29.
Shipments of fresh and cured
meats from Chicago last week amount.
ed to 46,012.000.
Vice Admiral Lindor Perez-Gacitna,
director-general of the Chilean navy.
died at Santiago.
Xew Britain. Conn, April 11. The
republicans swept New Britain at the
biennial mayoralty election today.
Mayor George A. Quigley was re
elected mayor over Ernest W. Pelt on.
democrat, by a vote of 3,660 to 2.C'jo.
Gain Two Members in Council.
The republicans gained two mem
bers on the common council which
will be composed of 25 republicans
and five democrats.
Mayor Quigley carried five of the
six wards. It was one of the largest
political sweeps in tha history of the
city.
The vote on the constitutional
amendment relating to the mileage
question was yes 191; no 12".
With her cargo badly damaged by
nre. the American steamer omega ar
rived at La Kochelle, t ranee.
Yeggs blew the safe of the post office
at Savannah, N. V.. and escaped with
12 in cash and JiO in stamps.
NDICTED FOR IMPORTING
PRIZE FIGHT PICTURES
Six Prominent Mew Yorkers and One
Canadian.
Syracuse. N. Y.. April 11. Inrlb-
ments ag:.m.si ,. . eminent Xew
Yorkers and one Canadian, charging
them with conspiring to violate the
law prohibiting the importation of
motion pictures of the Wille.rd-.Iohn-
son fight and with bringing into the
L nited .States pictorial representations
or the hght in violation of the law. re
turned by the federal grand lury here
hav beenspnt to the I nited State3 dis
trict attoroes.r-;ew York and the-ar;
rest of the live men is expected tomorrow.
The men are Harold T. Edwards of
the law firm of Olney and Comstock;
lsa.ac C. v. Llnan. manager of the Du
plex Film Company; Harry Fisgbeck,
expert cinnematograph operator; W.
V. Brymer, James J. Johnstone, man
ager of Madison Square Garden: Law
rence M. D. McGuire, president of the
Xew York Real Estate Dealers Ex
change and J. J. Orknay, of Canada.
The accused are charged with hav
ing set up machines on the Canadian
border at Rouse's Point fcr the purpose
of transferring from the Canadian side
films of the fight pictures onto Ameri
can films for exhibition in the T.'mted
States.
Carrying a force of marines, the cun
boat Wheeling left Vera Cruz for a
cruise along the coast of 1 ucatan.
The New York branch of the Xa
tional Bank of Cula has shipped to
Cuba 11.000.000 in new Cuban gold.
A distinct earth shock probably sev
eral thousand miles directly south was
recorded on the seismograph at i ale.
MANY DYING CF
STARVATION IN ALBANIA.
150,000 Deaths in Last 18 Months
500,000 Likely to Die.
AMERICAN GRAPHOPHONE
PRESSMEN ON STRIKE
Allege That Several Have Been Dis"
charged Because of Union Activities.
LABORERS AT REMINGTON
ARMS PLANT STRIKE
Paris, April 11, 11.10 a. m. William
vvillard Howard of New York, secre
tary of the Albanian relief committee.
who left Paris today on his way to the
t ntted States from Albania, said that
loO.OOO human beings had died of
starvation in Albania during the last
18 months, and that 500,000 were likely
to die before normal conditions in that
country were resumed.
Famine due to the failure of the
crops as a result of the excessive rains
Mr. Howard said, has reduced the pop
ulation to a pitiful condition, and tv-
phus fever threatens to become epi
demic. Owing to the car, commerce
end Industry in the country are para
lyzed. The secretary said that the
Christian work relief ship Albania
carrying the fourth shipment of relief
supplies, still remained in the Med
iterranean.
Mr. Howard is returning to thp
United States for the purpose of fit
ting out another relief expedition. He
Fays the Albanians are not taking anv
part in tne war or tne tsaikans.
SPEEDY CONCLUSION OF
PURSUIT OF VILLA
Predicted by an American Mining Con
cern With Interests in Parrel.
El Paso. Tex.. April 11. The pursuit
of Francisco Villa iflrobably will be
brought to a conclusion within 4S
hours, according to information re
ceived here today by an American min
ing concrn with large interests at
Parral and Torreon.
Villa Currently Reported Dead.
The message stated that the report
villa was dead was current through
out southern Chihuahua and northern
Durango. and. while it was far from
ooniirmed. it was exported that definite
news would be received within the
next few days.
Either Dead or Far South.
There are only two possibilities
which are accepted here as true in the
present situation. Either Villa is dead
and his pursuit is automatically ncded
or he is far to the south in central
Dura n go. If the latter is true, army
officers say that the entire plan of
campaign of General Pershing must
be reorganised or abandoned alto
gether, one officer, who has had an
active part in the direction of the
plans of the expeditionary force,
sumriM up th situation In this way:
If Villa is dead, there is no more
to be said, except to issue an order for
our soldiers to come back to the
United States as speedily as possible.
JT he is not dead, there is very little
reason to doubt that he Is by this time
well Into the state of Durango. It is
simply ridiculous to suppose that our
troops can keep on going south in
definitely with no railroads back of
them. They will e-ther have to halt
or arrange for the despatch of another
expedition from some point on tr-
border which will enable them to cut
in behind Villa. I am not a prophet.
but the most casual observer should
see that the existing conditions arc Im
possible of continuance.'"
Carranza Commander Credits Report
The report of Villa's death wns ac
cepted as highly probable by General
bertani. the Carranza commander at
C.isas Grandes, who is now in Juarez.
Only One Doctor In the Country.
"There is only one doctor in the
country where Villa now is." said Gen
eral Bertanl. "and If blood poison has
set in in ilia s wounded leg, as my
information has it. this doctor can do
nothing, even if he has a chance.
REPUBLICANS IN STATE CONVENTION
Edwin V. Higgins Mentioned as Delegate to National
Convention From This Congressional District
DISPARAGEMENT OF DEMOCRACY IS CHEERED
Three more Chinese, believed to have
been smuggled into this country, were
arrestea in a launory at Ecnenecuay.
About 35 members of the Journey
men Tailors" I'nion are on strike
Xew Haven for an increase in wages.
An order for 10 locomotives was
received by the American loomotive
Co. from the Pckin-Hankow Bail road
Operation of the Elsworth Collieries
Co. mlnns at Charleroi. I'a.. have been
closed in definitely because of a strike.
Michael Mislai, 40, was killed whn
he was struck by a train while cross
ing the tracks of the Xew Haven road
at Stamford.
Carl Dudley, a negro accused of kill
ing policeman James Hayes, was tak
en from Jail by a mob at Lawton.
Ok la., and lynched.
Senator McLean Attacks President Wilson's Handling of
Revenue Measure, His Mexican and Foreign Policy and
Tells of Fundamental Weakness of Democratic Party
J. H. Roraback, John T. King of Bridgeport, Charles
Hopkins Clark of Hartford and Francis Maxwell of
Rcckville Are Forecast as the Delegatcs-at-Large to Na
tional Convention at Chicago A. E. Shedd Represents
19th District on Resolutions Comittee Senator McLean
Spoken of for Permanent Chairman A Short Session
is Anticipated Today, as There Are Few Contests Over
District Delegates to the Chicago Convention.
Bridgeport, Conn. April 12. About
five hundred pressmen at the Ameri
can Graphaphone company struck at
one o clock this morning. The men al
lege that several of their number had
I Want a Flat Wage Scale of 25 Cents
an Hour.
Bridgeport, Conn., April 11. .About
200 laborers, not organized, in vari
ous departments of the Remington
Arms plant, struck today for a flat
wage scale or zo cents an hour. They
recentlv been discharged because of naa Deen setting st), zz and 23 cents
union activities. They also present a an hour- After they had been out
demand for more money and shorter about half a day representatives of
hours. " I the company had a conference with
At nresent thp men otr ihair T-ci,,,, I tnem and agreed to the 25 cent rate
36 cents an hour and wnrk hn for all of them and the men will will
on the day shift and 11 1-2 hours at So back to work in the morning. All
night. They will demand fortv cents aIC "u" uiiamiieu ciass.
- .... . -
an nour ana an eight hour day for all.
WATERBURY MEN FACE
WHITE SLAVE CHARGE
PHILIPPINES ADVERSELY
rrcw i tu by WAR SaicI to Have Been Living There With
Throuah Shortaae of Vl. mA Two Married Women.
.u.tar... n,Bn nam. Bristol. Conn.. ADril 11. Kdwnrd
T1 loir n rretA ) C n n4 ' Vrt Wlnn Hr....
San Francisco. April 11. Business rJ sk"" , w"t'. " ru,'"L"'
conditions in the Philippine Islands arraigned tomorrow in the city court
have been adversely affected by the v,. "
i?72?W SISS announced tonight:" It Ts alleged
h V; nT ;LY u aYe living here since
S"ti?S. April l with Mrs. Calla Camp, aged
i . SI 7 ' . , w 2J. or Waterbury, and Sirs.
l" i V"'"0" waay i Johnson f New Britain.
BOYS ESCAPE FROM
CHESHIRE REFORMATORY.
Henry Kenyon of New London One of
Two,
Hilda
FfRE IN HARTFORD
PRINTING ESTABLISHMENT
Case, Lockwood & Brainard Co. Shop
Damaged About $15,000.
Hartford, Conn., April 11. The Case,
Lockwood and Brainard Companj'a
printing shop -in Pearl street was dam
aged by fire and water tonight to the
extent of about $15,000. It is Ojelleved
the fire started when sparks from a
short circuit in the lighting apparatus
commumcatea to some benzine.
Cheshire, Conn., April 11. Henry
itenyon or New London and John iley
ers of New Jersey, inmates of the state
reformatory, escaped from the institu
tion late today. They were working
in the woods when they decided to run
away. It is said they went to a nearby
I house and changed their clothes. Ac
The cording to current reports, the hoys
are armed with revolvers.
PENROSE ON APPROACHING
NATIONAL CAMPAIGN
Says Republicans Face Great Respon
sibilities in Principles and Candi
dates.
EXECUTION OF THREE
DIAZ PLOTTERS REPORTED
Burglars broke into the home of
ChWk Kvans. former golf ch impion in
Chicago, and stole four silver cups
won in golf tournaments.
Hartford. April 11. The republican
state c-mventlon. which opened here
today, promises to be a hamioiiK.es
slon. It was opened by l i.iied
JLites Senator George I Mclean,
with a stirring address.
Rcraback Introduced McLean.
The Foot Guard Armory W;s f.iirlv
well filled when Chairman J. Henry
Itorahack intr.lucrd -n:itor Mrb ji
At few conventions held in the arm.
ory had morn effort boon ex;H-n.le to
nir.ke the inu-rior attractive to Hi1?
eve. lUgs being u.vd for d't-irative
erect and pilms and ix.ttcj nl-.m
being banked on each wing of the
te.
Senator McLean Greeted With Ad-
plaus.
Senator Mclean was grc-fte-1 with
Bringing 33 racing horses, owned by
the late II. H. LMiryea. the Atlantic
Transport liner Mongolia arrived at
New York from Liverpool.
Secretary of War Baker told Repre
sentative t'lney that he expects to ask
Congress for money to maintain ciU-
zen soldier training ramps.
At a meeting of the Jewish relief
committer in Heriin. it was reported
that 700.000 Jews In the occupied dis
tricts of Poland require assistance.
The Coast Guard cutter Seminole.
brought Into port at Wilmington. X.
C, the schooner John R. I'enrose. New
York for Wiggins. S. C, in distress.
Gov. Holcomb appointed J. W.
Marsland. of New I'ritaln a mem'ier
of the state pharmacy commission fr
a term of five years from June 1. ISIS.
Lieut. Berg, German prize master of
the steamer Appam. now lying at New
port News, reported his vessel leaking
badly, with four feet of water in the
hold.
arpiat! and In acknowledging this
he ttu. I that he was glad to look "into
the f ! of the men who will help
rleot the next president of the c'nited
Statc-s."
Preparation and Protection.
Declaring tint the republican party
in the fail campaign will bear a ban
nr with the prmi-w on It of "Prep
aration and Protection" "peace and
pr..sj"Tity." unii.-.:inr-dly attackin-r
the d-mo-ratic alm m-trullon for i:s
tariff, l.ankinir and trade policies and
criticizing th .Mexican and foreign
lolicies of 1-rexidenl Wilson. United
States Senator George I. McLean of
t onnecticut. as temporary chairman,
opcnid the republican slate conven-
(Continued on Page Two)
ESSENTIALS FOR NAVAL
AND MILITARY POLICY
Leaders in Plan to Overthrow Juarez
Were Shot There Early Yesterday.
Kl Paso. Tex.. April 11. The three
leaders of the Diaz plot to seize Juarez
nnd overthrow the Carranza garrison
there lat Sunday were executed by
tne tiring squat m Juarez early today.
They were Nicholas Chavazarria, Jose
Inez Borncl and Florenzio Hernandez.
The condemned men confirmed the plot
before they were executed. OtheT
Mexicans were implicated.
Gen. Cavira. commanding the Juarez
garrison, received a telegram today
from the military governor st Madera
that four Villa bandits had been cap
lured. They will be executed. Gen.
Gavira said he thought the Villa ban
dits had been captured in a recent
battle.
A teaspoonful of coffee will buy
more than a gold coin with the
American army in Mexico. Grounds
are used as many as 11 times by some
of the Bt Idiers.
Joseph Danduno was sentenced In
the superior court at New Haven to
from four to eight years In state prl
son on his plea of guilty to "white
slavery" charges.
Judge Donnelly at Waukegan, III,
continued until May 15. the case of
William H. Orpet. "Wisconsin L"nl
versity student, accused of the murder
of Marian Lambert.
The 22 striking employes of the
Torrington street department returned
to work after the borough had agreed
to pay them 25 cents an hour, an in
crease of 2 1-2 cents.
Discussed at Annual Meeting of Navy
League of United States.
Washington. Aiiril 11. Thre fun
damental fcteps which he Je-.-'ire-l
were essential to an adequnt Am'-ri-f
an naal and military policy wpre
outlined here today to the annual con
vention of the Navy l.engue of the
I'nited States by Its chairman. Perry
Lelmont. They wore: Creation of a
council of national defence; abolition
of the volunteer system and issuance
of national defense bonds.
"ther sieakers made pleas for naval
preporedness and for private manu
facture of war munitions.
Mr. Helmont contended it was un
fair to congress to thrust on it the
problem of defense without a com
mission to gather information neces
sary for formulation of leglslation.
The present volunteer system, he said,
would interfere in time of war with
Industry by drawing indiscriminately
from all tr.vle and calling!!. He cr-
NCued that defense bonds should bo
issued and so extended that no one
generation would have to bear the
wh..le burden.
Complt.ir.ro wi:h th democratic
platform of Ji: providing measure.
for national defense in its broadest
sense, including the estahlilim nt (
a council of national f-nse.- tl..
chairman added, wiild have removed
'the question from polities and v. oul.i
nave resuliej l"ng mice in a rccrni
mendation to conr.rcs. cf a naval and
military program and a financial pian
to carry the program into effect.
WASHINGTON NEWS OF
AFFAIRS IN MEXICO
Disposition to Discredit Rumors f
Villa's Death.
Washington. April 11. Marked prog
ress toward solving the problem of
surplyin General Pershing's columns
and further evidences of co-operation
by Carranza soldiers in the pursuit
of Villa were recorded in today's offi
cial reports from Mexico and the bor
der. Rumors from
Villa had died of blood nolsonlnr anH
press despatches from Queretaro tell
ing oi an announcement by the d
facto government's wvr iiniuHm,,.,
that it had reason to believe the ban
dit chief had been killed in action
were the occasion of much discussion;
Jn some Quarters t her -
ii position to redit the
hey were without offlclsl conftrma-
on and both nrmr officer nH
department officials suggested that
they probably had been put out by-
ilia's friends as a ruse.
At the state and war 1eni-rrenf
tonight it waa admitted that Villa's
xact location was not known anj
hat absolutely no news rMnniin-
General Pershing had been received.
ior Bncni oays. me la I slat" de
partment report regarllng Villa's
whereibo'tts was that ha waa n,r
Parral and headed south.
Lancaster. Pa., prll 11. Ttnlted
States Senator Penrose In an address
tonight at the annual banquet of the
Kepublican club or this City said that
not since the Civil war has the re
publican party faced such great re
sponsibilities as will confront it in the
approaching national campaign. In
the enunciation of principles and the
selection of candidates, the senator
said, the party must subordinate ev
ery personal interest or petty conflict
of opinion that stan.ds as an obsta
cle to the performance of its duties.
The feeling prevails among republi
can leads. Senator Penrose said, "that
this is not the year to force the can
didacy of any Individual.
"It may be stated with accuracy."
he added, "that there are no candi
dates at the present time for the re
publican nomiration in the usual ac
ceptance of the term."
COMBINED ARMY AND
NAVY AERODROME.
Plans Formulated for Its Establish
ment at San Diego, Cal.
San Diego, CaU April 11. Plans for
the establishment of a combined army
and navy aerodrome here, at which
military aviators ef both services will
be trained, hav ebeen formulated by
officials of the United States sdgnal
corps aviation school at North Island.
These plans, it was said authoritative
ly today, have received the endorse
ment of Secretary of War Baker and
Secretary of the Navy Daniels and will
be placed 'before congress in the near
future.
A PARDONED COUNTERFEITER
AGAIN UNDER ARREST.
Charged With Passing Spurious Silver
Dollars in Pihladelphia.
Philadelphia. April 11. Bartholomew
Rnlll. who. according to government
agents, has served more than 20 years
for counterfeiting in various sections
of the country, and was pardoned Keb.
16 by President llson after he had
served two years of a six years' sen
tence for counterfeiting in Kentuckv,
was arrested in this city tonight,
charged with passing counterfeit silver
dollars. W'ilhum Er.gle, who, the au
thorities allege, has served a sentence
for counterfeiting, was arrested ) with
him. Several bogus dollars were found
in Rulli's possession, and a search of
his room, according to the police, re
vealed a complete outfit for their man
ufacture. He was identified by his
pardon, which was found in his pocket.
FORCED TO VOLPLANE
SEVERAL THOUSAND FEET.
Lloyd Thompson Had Reached Altitude
of 13,950 Feet.
New York, April 11. Lloyd Thomp
son, nymg witn nis mechanic in a
military biplane on 'Long Island today,
reached a height of 13,950 feet and
established a new American record for
altitude. His fuel became exhausted
in the descent and he was forced to
volplane several thousand feet. The
previous record for altitude with a
passenger was 11,690 feet, made by
Lieut. J. E. Carberry. U. S. A, at Sao
Diego, Cal., Jan. 5, 1915.
Eiderdown is one of the poorest
conductors of heat, hence its use as
a bed covering.
Miss Konstance Kopp, under'sheriff
of Hackensack. N. J.. dived into the
Hackensack River there and rescued
Tony Hajnack. an insane prisoner, as
he tried to drown himSelf.
Passengers arriving at New York
from Hamilton. Bermuda, on the
steamer Bermu Man. reported the res
cue of Peter J. McKenna. a passenger
who Jumped overboard last Saturday.
Sixteen field motor ambulances, the
gift of the American Red Cross
through private benefactors to the
Russian Red Cross, were blessed by
Archbishop Edrokin at the Russian
Consulate in New Y'ork.
Bringing Cap. O. M. Gray and seven
members of the crew of the schoon
er Emma F. Angell. which she sunk
In a collision off the irginla Capes.
the British steamer Chenstow Castle
arrived at New York from Baltimore.
Rear Admiral Co pert on, command
ing the cruiser squadron in Haytian
waters, reported that the Minister of
Public Instruction and another citizen
hav been bitten by a mad dog. and
are on their way to New York for
treatment.
INDUSTRIAL LOAN FOR
CHINESE GOVERNMENT
SOUTHERN PACIFIC
OIL LAND CASES
Being Heard in Washington by Dis'
trict Court of Southern California.
Washington. April 11. The fedril
district court of southern California,
moved here bodily to take test.mony
in the famous Southern Pacific o:l
land cases, heard testimony by th
government today designed to prove
that the railroad patenitd through
fraud its title to California lan-s
worth more than half a billion dol
lars. The government is set-kins to
set nsine tne patents.
Judge Benjamin K. Pleds.e broueht
his court across the continent instead
or having an examiner take the tes
nmony twauw ne wanted to hear t
vrrson.-uiy. i ne proceeding is vm
usual in the annals of American iurl.
prudence. lumbers of governmti
officials who will testify here -jrould
nave been unable to go to Califirnla
ror tne trial.
Land office records wfi Introduced
by the government today to support
us allegations tnat the railroad in til
ing on more than 10O.000 acres swore
ralseiy that land from which th. rail
road now is obtaining all its fuel oil,
contained no oil. The land was ob
tained by the railroad under the imtn
of 1S66. which providfd that no min
eral land could go to railroad. Snrre
or It was set aside bv the euvernme?
as fuel oil lands for the naw.
oix cases are pending against the
railroad out under an agreement ap
proved by the court, the case now be
tne tried will serve as a record of e
dence for all.
Lee Higginson &. Co. of Boston Sign
Contract for $20,000,000.
Peking. China. April 11. Lee Hig
ginson & company of Boston signed
a contract today for a t20.00o.000 In
dustrial loan to the Chinese govern
ment and paid $1,000,000. The loan
was placed at 97, at six per cent. The
Industries to be developed furnished
the security.
MILLIONAIRE WHOLESALE
GROCER A SUICIDE
His
Brooklyn Man Had Delusions
Business Was Failing.
New York. April 1L William B.
Jurflen. a wholesale grocer, reputed to
be a millionaire, committed suicide at
has home In Brooklyn today by cut
ting hla throat with a razor. Mr.
Jurgena waa in bis 78th year and was
suffering from a delusion that his bus
iness waa failing.
FOOT AND MOUTH DISEASE
IS ENTIRELY ERADICATED
Announcement Made at Meeting A
State Board of Agriculture.
Hartford. Conn. April 11. "Th
foot and mouth disease in the I'nited
States ts now entirely eradicated.1
was the Information imparted to the
members of the state board of agri
culture at their quarterly meeting 1
this city today by Dr. Ingraham. dop
uty commissioner on domestic ani
mats. The Information came from
Dr. John A. Keenar. connected with
the government who was actively en
gagr-d in this state in stamping out
the disease.
Governor Holcomb attended the
meeting. Clifford Stoddard cf New
Haven reported relative to the uil
bert farm matter at Oeorgctown an
urged that a house for boys be erect
ed there. He advocated the erec
Uon of a dormitory.
FUNSTON HAS NOT ASKED
FOR ADDITIONAL TROOPS
But More Trocps May Be Sent With
out His Asking for Them.
San Anton!-. Texas. April 11. -Gen.
eral Kun.s-.on said today that General"
I'rrshing had made no request for ad
ditional troops, but his silence on that'
fwiint was regarded by staff officers
here as due to his reluctance to pre
sent a phase of the situation that
miht be considered embarrassing ra-1
ther than to any confidence he has In;
his ability to conduct the campaign,
against Villa much longer with the
forces at his command.
Additional troops mav be sent t:
him without him askii.g for them, but'
if not General Kunslon will make rep-.
resentations to t!i war department
explaining the necessity for strength
en. ng the punitive expedition at the
first call from General Pershing.
Headquarters officials were frank In
their expressions of amazement that'
General Pershing had gone as far as
he has with the forces at hand and
almost hourly have expected word
from Mm that he dare not send f ur-:
th-r into Mexico the cavalry columns
now about Parral. 4u0 miies south of.
the border, unless more men for the:
extension of the line of communica-'
lion are provided.
VILLA IN HIDING:
ALMOST UNATTENDED
Said to Be in the Sierra Mountains
Chihuahua.
Mexico City, April 11. Francisco
Vilia has left the main body of his
cemmand and Is hiding, almost unat
tended, in the Sierra Mountains of
Chihuuhua. according to information
given out at the war department to
night, The last of Ms retreating forcea
passed through the town of Cusihui
rachic Chihuaiiua, yesterday In their
flight toward the mountains. They
were closely pursued by forces of the
de facto government who hope to cap
ture the band and locate their leader.
FAILED TO VERIFY
FLAG WAS INSULTED
At Meeting Held in a High School in
New York.
New York, April 11. A special
committee of the luurd of ed Ligation
appointed at the re-tuesl of Mayer
Mitchell to Inv-jsticate an alleged 1nr'
suit to the American flag by James H.
Maurer, president ef the Pennsylvania,
state federation of laiior. In a speech'
delivered at a meeting held in a high
school building here, reported today
that it had been unable 19 lind ade
quate corroboration of the publiah4 '
a lory. -
