Stilt.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; fresh,
strong, westerly winds,
.iighest temperature yesterday, 57 ; lowest, 37.
Detailed weather, mall und marine reports on puce It,
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL LXXXIIL NO. 225.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1916. Cop.rlpsf, 191(1, tj the Sim PrUitlnp and PiibuUi(na As$oriatton.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
U.S. TROOPERS
KILL MORE OF
VILLA'S BAND
Pershing's Advance Force
Captures 35 Prisoner!) in
Jliusli Below Satevo.
ft HAIDERS WOUNDED
AT COLUMBUS TAKKX
Obregoii Sends 5.000
"
dinns North to Join
Villa Hunt.
PKATH AND BUKIAL OF
BANDIT NOT BELIEVED
Reports From Mexico City
Say He Is Hiding: in Chi
huahua Mountains.
Br r.KORon 11. ci.kmf.st.
.'pcci'df Cormpondtnt of Tnc Acs'.
Flllt.tl IlKAPUlTARTEng PUNITIVE ExrE-
p:tiox, South Xamiqimpa, via wireless
to Columbus. N. M., April 11. An un
olllclal report reached here to-day that
Troops K and M of the Seventh Cav
alry In brush with Vllllstas south
of Satevo killed n number of them and
captured thirty-flve on Saturday.
Eight Villlsta.. who were wounded In
the Columbus light were found after
tli Kind were routed. Two could not
lc moved, but six others were taken
;i "he camp to be returned to Colum-
OBREGON SENDS 5,000
TROOPS TO HUNT VILLA
Picked Vfiqnls and Murom
win
I'nrane Bandit Chief.
riil Cable fiafcA to Tb Sex.
Mexico Citv, April 11, It waa offi
cially ;i uncut need hero to-night that
GtR. Obreson. MlnWer of War. haa
ordered a column of 5,000 of his fight-
ns Vaqtiis and Mayos from Sonora. to
h- organized from the forces now gar
ronlng Monterey and other northern
pent to l.o rushed to help In the pur
mi of Villa.
The bandP leadei s said to be hiding
i .very fen followers n the mountains,
V Chihuahua.
TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE,
U.S. ARMY MEN SAY
Rnl Many nn norder nrllerr Villa
Is Dearl.
F l't.o Tev n,lt ii eT ,
tn. lex., .prll 11. Too good
- true" was the way the American
rCI its generally greeted the report from
ixiro to-day that Pancho Villa Is dead I
tid burled and that his bandits nre flee
ns in small bauds for safety.
While many did not credit the report,
tne-e were ome In official and other
c.nlcs who weie Inclined to believe there
ia.i too.l chance that the bandit leader'
l'l died of his wounds. It has been
... ' 'uu"ur' "rl-"
m. ished without question that Villa
as wo'jmlf
Last nl3.1t Gen. Gavlra, commanding
H.e Juircz forces, said that from the last
"ports he had received regarding Villa
the bar.dlt chief was dying of blood
Wl-oi line The Mor- of the actual death
' Ilia Jining to-day on top of this
information led many to credit it. Tho
M't al-o that nobody has seen Villa
Pmoiuiy mice, ills rout at the hands
" the American cavalry forces at San
litrommo two weeks ago. two days fol
;"lns tie lecelpt of his wounds, adds
urtlicr stiength to tiie report of his
Suth ai.d burial
'plKre , o ,n,V)t tbat ,he report ,g
im";" """S110"' te legion where the
Cm force'' "re "",v operating after
la that 1,,. is dead. Ills exact burial
- Kiericcj to by many of the
k" .1 1,10 v"-''nHy "f Satevo, who
t. Kr',ve " ,"'ar Santa Ana.
n'y miles southwest of Satevo, Gen.
'"Mil rs latest advance base.
, ;"1 , buflne.s man arriving to-
Mri voi : hl,mi:'1"1 ' rity said the re
?Vo "lXilhih ,1',;"l bad been current in
"Jt t since Sunday night and that It
,ord . rru Ly "Plll,e"' The report, ac
'" man. Mild Ills death took
C,rnn ''.A"':'srn a,,c,, "'tween
hich , ar','' .Tabocate. The wound
nirh .aused Villa', death Was InHlcted
' oui,aRcd father, whose. daughter
' iu fid wronged. A similar story s
? c:il"" "f the death wound was
'" with Ills own hand.
TrlnB to Find Grare.
"?'; ""!' "'rial scouts have been or
th J,,!' 1 h" K'en? 10 "ttcmpt to locate
km V. 1 Mc","T' Jn. Pershing has
of h , ""i",'" ,l,e neld on the
lin v f. m'.:,w" ,n f,RV '-- fen
, tZ . ' ' c"' uccordlna- to
.ll. br'""!"t to the border to-dav by
d riven"' 1eln" nt Bacabulrlachlc.
Wrty mile s west of Santa Ana. This
m two days ago. however,
ran Jl'!'''1?! -on"''0'J Mi the Amerl
lo d.v " l),,"i'-t"'"t In Juarea learned
i ,L r""! u'lvlceM to American mln
bthet.T1';1''1? ",Ht bani 01 Vllllitaa.
i h .7 , 0 '.e ,he commaad.last seen
ltli their chief, was following the val-
J nf the San Pedro Illver toward
,i.,i,,e y ,.Mlv0( w))lc fH 0Me of tha
trf,i,Kct iiaturnl fortresses In south
,H' in (. hlliuahun. It la a high plateau
Men among mountain peaks ant) not
than two men on horseback can
VontUineU on Third Pagt.
t
W. E. D. STOKES DIAZ AGENT.
And lie Denies Any Vint Attain!
tiir Vnllret Mates.
T.f.xi.n-otom, Ky.. April II. W. i:. D. i
Stoke of New York admitted lierc to- '
"Ighl that lie Is American representative
of Felix Bias. Kut Mr. Stokes as that
he, knows nothing tttwut the. most tecent
movement of Diaz, as reported In to- I
day's despatches from Kl Paso, lie re-
celved a telCRram from his New Yoik
oince, to-day calling him bark to that
VI IV.
Diaz and know that he la friendly to the J
! fulled States." said Mr. Stokes, "He re-J
fused J2.000.000 fiom Huerta to foment 1
a revolution In Mexico because Diaz
thought It wo'tild Injure the United
States, lie also refused nn offer by
Germany of an Immense sum of money
and unlimited arms and munition of
war If ho would Mart trouble In Mexico,
for what purpose, Herman agents did not
ay. But Diaz refused this also.
"Dlar. stopped nt my hotel In New
Tn-!ork n'lld ,luer'a' .n',d.1 ha. H.uer,
, shadowed constantly by detectives."
Mr. .stones added that any movement
by Diaz against the Carranza Govern
inent as reported to-day was In opposi
tion of hli own attitude and effort. Mr.
Stokes refued to go Into details as to
why lie had concluded to support Diaz.
Mr. Stokes has been here taking a
rest at his Mock farm. '
PBINCE OSCAR NOW KINO.
Kaiser's fifth nn Proclaimed
Monarch of Lithuania,
Paris, April II. The Journal states
that Prltioe Oscar, the fifth son of Em
peror William, has been proclaimed Kins
of Lithuania.
The newspaper says to-day that the
Kaiser, accompanied by prince Oscar
and Field Marshal von Hlndenburg, went
to Vllna on April 2. They visited the
tombs of the old kings of Lithuania and
then ascended the hill on which the ruins
of the ancient Lithuanian castle stand.
A petition "was handed to the Knlser.
the Journal states, claiming the restora
tion of the Independence of Lithuania
and requesting that Prince Oscar be
made King of Lithuania.
"After the reading of the petition."
sajs the ,oiiriml, "crowds gathered In
the chateau and shouted "Long live King
Oscar!' The petition is understood to
have been the work of tho East Prussian
Deputies, Herren Cablnot and Stepulls.
who toured Lithuania and Courland
getting signatures."
U. S. AVIATORS FLY
3S0 MILES IN 4 HOURS
Breii k Army Record in Trip
From Gpii. Pershing's Bnse
Near Pnrral.
Washington. April 11. All previous
records for-suitalned flight in the army
aviation service were broken to-day
when, according to a despatch received at
the War Department from Gen. Funston,
an army biplane. carrlng Lieu'.s, EiKar
S. Oorrell and Herbert A. Dargue, ar
rived at Columbus, N. M., after a 330
mile (light In four hours from Gen.
Pershing's headquarters In Mexico.
The best previous cros-country flitht
for tha army service was made by Capt.
Dodd of the Signal Corps, who flew ap
proximately 2C0 miles from the army
, aviation school at San Diego. Cal. Heforo i
I that tiie record was held by Lieut.
Milling, who flew from Galveston to San
Antonio, a distance of 220 miles, without
alighting.
Both Capt. Dodd and Lieut. Milling
, are with the First Aero Squadron in ,
: ''eul- "otii was one o! in.
aviators who weio lost for a time In
the flight of the squadron from Columbus
rio Casas (irandes when tlio at my first
'nnl.rui VImv rn tl fiilir mn :r r-
l:rr,, ', , L ,vA.;i m-V. I
When tile news nf tho flight was glveji
to Urlg.-Gen. Scrlven, chief of the Signal
Corps of the ami), over the telephone,
to-night he said ;
I trust that this achievement, mado
under the most adverse ilyin
condi
lons due to the altitude at 'Which II
!,uU to b.e. 1",a'1''', -iv -omewliat
(n correct the unfair liniiiiscsloii created
throughout tiie country by the news-
papers' accounts of tlio shortcomings of
the army filers In Mexico."
Gen. Funston stated that the aviators
btought no message fiom Goo. Pershing
regarding the jirogtes" of the expedition
nfter Villa The distance of the flight
is significant, In indicating that Gen.
Pershing himself l In the vicinity of Par
ral.st the southern extremity of the State
of Chihuahua, and that the advance
columns are well acioss tlio line Into
Dtirango. OtII lals of the State Depart
ment understand that the vauuuard of
the expedition Is now about 100 miles
fiom I he border.
HANDBILLS ATTACK MAYOR.
Action un stnten Island Gsrliaue
Plant Called I iiUrrhandod.
At a meeting of ofllcers and directors
of all the savings and national banks
and building and loan associations on
Staten Island at the Staten Island
Slnvlliv lt:eill: rillllilltii- Mei,nli.tn, li..
. ......n ....... . v.,,
nlglit It was decided to Instruct their
employees to illstribiite on Friday
illstribiite on Friday I
morning handbills announcing a mass
meeting at the German Club, Stapleton,
on Friday night to take action against
the erection of a garbage destructor.
Twenty-one members of the Vigilance
Committee attended the session. The
handbills will call the attention of
Staten Islanders to what Is described
aa "the underhand work" of Mayor
Mltrhel and the members of the Board
of Estimate In putting through a eon
tract for the construction of the garbage
plant on the north shore of Staten
Island without giving the taxpayers a
public hearing- on the proposition. It Is
alleged that the Mayor promised the
residents of Staten Island that they
would have an opporunlty to be heard.
COUNTESS SZE0HENYI WELL.
Former ailMiGladra Vanderbllt He
t'oreri From sjniallpoa.
Uptclal CaMi Vf patch to Tnt 8cn.
Gknkva, via London, April 11, The
Cuunteas Szechenyl, formerly Miss
aiadya Vanderbllt, who was decorated
recently by Kmperor Francis Joseph for
her work with tho Austrian Ited Cross,
has recovered from her recent attack of
smallpox.
The Countess has become an expert
nurse und wtshea to be employed In hos
pital stations near the front lines. She
also ta spending tarae sum of monr
In aiding tbe Hungarians.
WIFE INVADES
UNION LEAGUE,
BUT IS ROUTED
SCl'VIHltS StOJt 31 IS. ClflUdin
I Partstrdl Wheeler From
Arresting Spouse.
SAYS BANKER OWES
HER $.1,600 ALIMONY
Mis. Claudia Carlstedt Wheeler, for
mer comic opera prima donna, flanked
by a deputy sherltT on one side and one
of her lawyers on the other. Invaded the
Union League Club late yesterday after
noon. Intent upon arresting her husband.
Albert flallatln Wheeler. .Ir.. of J. K.
ttussell & Co., bankets. In order to keep
him In this vicinity while she Is trying
to collect $3,t00 buck alimony, which
she says Is overdue.
The Invasion was only momentarily
successful. It took Just that long for
Otbson. the doorman, to rally the hall
men and portet. rout the Invading party
and save Mr. Wheeler from an evening's
hunt for a bondsman.
The defeated forces were not entirely
discouraged by their ejection, but their
morale was sorely shattered. Mrs.
Wheeler retreated to a comfortable chair
In a building across the way. Deputy
Sheriff .lullus Hrowner and Abraham
Llpton. the lawyer In the caRe. mounted
guard In front of the club, carrying om
nn Intermittent parleying with Supt.
Rogers, who maintained an attitude of
I strict neutrality In spite of his Job. Hut
' three hours later the Invaders decided It
was futile to try to match wits with the
Union league forces. , V.1!!., u,f
went away until morning.
Ilnll Klied at T..10U.
The order of arrest for Mr. Wheeler,
f I om whom his wife obtained s separa
tion early In 1912, nlleulti abandon
inent, was signed by Supreme Court
Justice Greenbaum. The complaint
hlcago's subway
pay her $.100 a month alimony, allowed
by the court, since April last year. It
appeared from the paper, too, that Mr.
Wheeler had led Ills erstwhile spouse a
merry chase for alimony payments from
New York to Boston and Chicago and
back for several years without any suc
cess to boast about on the part of Mrs.
Wheeler.
Some of the details of the chase were1
.... . . . ,. . ... .... ,.. i
recited in the complaint, but the main
part of It stated that Mrs. Wheeler
wanted her husband arrested and held
In $10,000 ball In this Jurisdiction so
If any motions were made In her Alimony
I proceedings Mr. Wheeler would be
Greenbatmi tlxed the ball amount at I
within reacli of the Sheriff. Justice
trr.no In tb i.nlrr of arrest, hut it I
might Just, as well have been many
times that amount last night co far as
Mr. Wheeler's Immediate arrest was
concerned. Anhow, Deputy Sheriff
Hrowner. Mrs. Wheeler and Mr. Llpton
took a brave chance, And this Is what
happened :
About :15 o clock tnt invaoets teacneo
Thirty-ninth street and Fifth avenue.
.Mis. Wheeler approached the union
League Club's tuxlcab starter seeking
Information about her husband's car. The
starter knew it not. So the besltgers
went Into brief consultation, mustered up
courage and mounted the steps to ths
Pi,ili front door. Hrowner 'flashed his
,M on Gibson" to use the starter's Kng-
,, meanlng a deputy slit riff's badge
an(j ,nbson fell back in disorder. The
nv,,jerH wero Inside. Mrs, Wheeler saw
olI i0klng 'oung man ciosslug tile
" n . " . .. ..... .
fo'rr l,olt?1' n"1- '"'' uo iirowuei s
ribs.
Invaders Pushed HarL.
"Theio he Is," she whispered and
Hrowner advanced, Hut Gibsons ad
vance was better. So was Supt, Itogers's
and others of th club staff. Determined
hands prevented Deputy III owner from
laying his legal hands upon the vanish
ing Mr. Wheeler. In fact, those Hist
mentioned hands w, ie so detei mined that
st.- vvti-.. I, v Ileiniiv lliowner aim sir. 1
i.lptnu found themselves as gracefully as I I don't raie to appear In the public If the faculty at 1 irge Is to lie propel y the chief point nu.tltist wlilcli tho re
)sslble backing out pat Gibson's sta- piesp." the pinfrsror sal.l llowovet, lie roir.-sentrel and enabled to elect its own cent Gorman operations on this slelo of
IN)
Hon and down the slop, inur ivireat
accompanied by such admonitions as
"Von know- you have no light here,"
"You must get out right avva," "Wad
dya meati coinln' In here like that?" c.
.After tho retreat It did not take long
for the news to -travel. In next to no
time at alt their vvss a small army of
reporters, photographers and plain curi
osity seekers outside the club and sur
rounding Mrs. Wheeler In the hallway
of tho building across the street. Dep.
utv Hrowner tried to send In word to
Mr. Wheeler to sui render. Heporterse
tried to send th"lr cauls to him, but
...... -
mniiific w .i.. ... ,; , '
nor neltnowleiigeei nis presence, , "'"
club nienibers who came and went "u j
not like the thing nt all and earnestly
petitioned Iho tuning not to throw any
bombs and please go away,
Mrs. Wheeler, bundled in black furs,
told reporters that her husband's tactics
ivi.l left her penniless und III. a ele-
e.....t Mr
pencieni upon ine cnitenj
and Jlrs. .loiin ! .viorns ' i "'"i
street.
Was t'oiulf Opera Star.
Mrs. Wheeler was married lo Mr.
Wheeler on March 31, IS9S. She was
known then ns "Hie girl In red" of "The
Manduriii" musical comedy company
and later a the star In several of Frank
Daniels's comic, operas. She waa Miss
Claudia Carlstedt. They lived together
In an uptown apartment until 1910 and
Mrs. Wheeler won a separation BUlt In
February. 112. At first she was granted
$500 a month alimony, but that was re
duced to $300 by the Appellate Division.
She said her husband paid It until May
1, 1913, when he went to Doston to live
until October, 1914. Mrs. Wheeler fol
lowed him to Boston rally that year and
the couple reached an agreement about
alimony.
According to the agreement, she was
to receive back alimony In part pay
ments, but was not to Institute court
proceedings to compel payment. In Oc
tober, 1914, Mr. Wheeler sued his wife
for divorce and lost. Mrs. Wheeler al
leged a conspiracy and the court exon
erated her. Following his failure at di
vorce, Mr. Wheeler went to Chicago,
where he lived until last December,
Mrs. Wheeler, Deputy Browner, Mr.
Llpton and Jonah J. Goldstein, Mrs.
Wheeler's other attorney, finally decided
about 7 :30 o'clock that they would give
up tbe siege until this morning. Deputy
Browner aald he would be around at the
club early with his order of arrest.
DOCTOR ADMITS
VIVISECTION ON
INSANE HUMANS
1
' Pl'OlVsSOf Wil(' Of A 1111 Al'-
l)or Bores Holes in Skulls
for Science's Sake.
KINDS PARESIS CAUSE:
DEFENDS OPERATION
A.-.v Ar.BOK, yt'eh., Anrll 11 It was
not long ngo that Dr. P. .1. Wile, profes
sor hi the medical school of the Pnl
vtr;.y of Michigan, Journeyed to the
Pontine State Hospital for the lii'.iue.
bored holes thiough the skulls of six
patients ami extracted from each a quan
tity of brain substance with which he
Inoculated rabbits. When the rabbits ' means of nt least llmltln g her authorlt y, Pflftn of alternating heavy attacks bo
beca lie Infected Ur. Wile said that the , , . . .. ' ,,. ,... .... .
presence f tho .plrochieta pallida lit the! """" '""'. oe-,--" --
brains of these lunatics had been eit.ib- raine knonn that a special meeting was apparent nttempt to ratch tho der.Miiloi
lUlied and the cause of paresis In the held lust night by five members of the 1 unprepared thrjugh their anxiety for th
"Laaymenewe"cn'ess Impre.ed bv this ' Mtor'- naiM' the j rengtl,enlng of ,o f ,o, previous.,- .
discovery than they were that vlvii.ee-. ""Ire board last March 31. to consider f ,nrKfa'
tlon had been practiced on human be-1 a letter signed by thirteen of the pro- n of nu,,s violent of recent fir
ings In a Slate hospital, vrohahly with-, fe-sors. Inc luding the Hr n Maw rS onate mi, nttneks m the Verdun front had
D1;! Wle ngttaedTa brS! T-Wen Thomas. ,s nders,ood-' las, night against ... Mof.
cast distribution of circulars and his "as not present at the metlng. She "n'"e. Soon after inls attack thf Or
col!eaues aie rallying to l,. support, said, however, that the letter In ouestlon """T ,",rmi' 'h'lr, ""entlon to Mi,, oast
The question of whether or not human ,,, ... , ' . ' , , . ' nuo"'"" em bank of tho river In an effort to re
Wvlsectlon shall be permitted, spe.-lallv " 1 rf' loll"1y submitted to hr I cover tho trenches lot to tlio French in
In nsylums and hospitals where (he
wishes of the patient are not consulted,
has thus been brought nrlt.nisli to the
public's attention.
Derencl Thrlr rl.
Several Interesting facts ha. been
brought to light by acknowledgments .if
Dr. Wile and his assistants. They showed
that physicians consider the act of orttei-
sent to any experiments which the stir-
geon may consbler necessary .u enable
him to ascertain the nature of the pa-
tlent's tiouble.
If one goes to the hop:t.il he may
pirform an ek'ilin-nt and no lurtner,
permission will be asked, according t , i
one of the most prominent men on the , .Mi l-nn Andrews of New ilaen Conn 1 '"'"Cli elements which the latter hud: "' ioh counter attacks on the Haucourt
faculty. That Is. the phvsiclati will not cx-iiioldeiit of the alumna-, mo rc" , occupied as a result of the aj-s.ml,t tliey Iiuillll frnl KH rcpuls,Aj wlth
...,s tin .... I" , ,,r.n.,, urn. -a im-
experiment icon ii-dlr.!- life. Hr rnliiht
.en drill a hole In the patient's head In
Hie interest or science. I-or. one phjsi- .college to a non-sectarian one In order
clan said, this Is not considered a dan-1 to avail Itself of the Carnegie ptnslon I
gerous expeihnent. fund for Its faculty.
Dr. Wile, explaining what he himself, The aliened conditions at llryn Mauri
ha done, sjys ; weio llrst rumored about two months ago 1
Th'; method of punctilio Is as follows:
l'lie patient's head Is first shaved and
the anterior portion of the skull thor-1
........ I.. I... .1 i-.i
ouahlv nnlntril tilth tincture nf tn.llne.
The legion Is fioien with ethyl chloride l
nml n revolving ilelttnl drill Is thrust I
iulckly through the skin and deeper . selves not with freedom of t-'eecli but
r'tlssue. A' few rapid revolutions of the'w"!l tharses of arbitrary conduct
drill In the hands 0f an assistant sulllce 1 m' nnllrllH of tho American Am.ooI.i
to pierce the skull. "t ' university has come out with
The di-il, I then i .moved and a
lore. Iblti needle !t lm.erle.1 ntiil tuiOi.!
flrmlv and deejilv Into the cortex. A
syringe barnd 'is attaclied to the end
of the needle. Hy suction w.snjall cylln- ,
der of litaln iiibstance .nntnlnlnc both i
giny and while inntter Is drawn Into 1
the Instrument, together with more or
less lliiid from tlio ventricle. .
The operation Is extremely simple.
One has only lo avoid the cerebral and
meningeal vessels, and over the upper
fiojitnl region, well away from tho mid-
die line, such danger ) ot untered,
nor Is any Impoitant centre dlwturbed,
In all cases thus far examined prnC'
tlrally no pain has been oxpeiienied
At Pontlae. Dr. Chr.Hti.m placed the
usual facilities .it the disposal of Dr.
Wile and provided the patients. These,
It Is claimed, wete lio,lo..., Itsaiie.
, ...... . .i.t ii. .... i.i
Consent of their gUHicllans was neither
secured nor thought neoe;it riie
weio dlng of paresis ami the niiei.it.ou
neither hastened nor retnidod Hie course
of the disease. Tile opet.illoiis were
railed successful. Inasmuch a they
plcivod the contentious of Dr Wile.
Physicians and surgeons la general
l.tve very little to say on the subject,
but tefer Interviewer to Dr. Wile, w ho .
Is extenne reticent.
n llnnarr. h Phtslelan
n imiiuor. h i iii. inn.
"Wlieu I am le.idj to make a lenort
i w in uo so mi ougn me nieuirai jou ' na s.
eil.eue on cieoiiii oc llie ircll!ll!g.
one pioniluent pli.vslclan said theio Is
no danger in tieplilnlng anil tliat It
rounds more serious to the layman thnn
It really Is. It Is no more Injurious than
to draw blond from Hie llne..r ilea ,.n.i
:
Ibe itinmetit Ibe nner.-itlnn iu ,.ve ,1... '
patleut Is iiji and feels no particular
.,1,1.. 1 r i ....
enect.
"My these operations Ir. Wllo estab
lished the cause of paresis, which hith
erto had baffled scientists," said this
physician. "No ono knows the cause of
scarlet fever, and I presume win never
nn w un i we nave experimented on a I
,,..1.,.,, ... FIIVMIH IK. ..7 l", lie ,
li Til alwiiiWl lim-A x ls i
scuuy ine disease a ve please. I In a
Uttlss boy or girl and posslblv we will
havo to allow another child to contract
the disease
front the one under ob-
servatloti,"
WOMAN HEADS KANSAS "BIG 4."
Widow of Mriiale.r Harris Hlectrel
llrniocrn t lo llrleuate
HfTCHlNSOK. Kun.. Apill 1 1. Tho '
Kansas Democratic convention did not
mention Gov. Major of Mlssouil, -who
nought indorsement of bis boomlet for
the Vlee-Presldency. .Two Kansas City
Democrats who were hero to push
Major's cause did not get 11 hearing be-
fore tne resolutions committee. Thev
were W. T. Kemper and John H. At.
wood, both "formerly of Kansas." 1
Col. W. F. f Hill Sapp of Galena, he
of the famous silk hat, was elected
National Committeeman after a hard
tight, defeating J. W. Orr of Atchison.
The big four was headed by Mrs. W,
A. Harris of Lawrence, widow of the
Senator. The three others were Sena
tor W. H. Thompson. A. A. Doerr of
Lamed and Judge A. M. Jackson of Win.
field. They were Instructed for Prcsl
dent Wilson.
WOMAN IB ELECTED MAYOR.
California Torrn Gives Her Biggest
Vote of All Candidates.
HAWTiMJe, Cal., April 11. 'Mrs. Ellen
French Aldrlch, formerly of Dayton,
Ohio, will be the first woman "Mayor"
of Sawtelle, An official count to-day
shows Hint she received at yesterday's
election the largest vote polled by any
candidate for the board of trustees.
According to custom the candidate
with the largest vote Is elected president
of the board with the honorary title of
"Mayor."
13 PROFESSORS
OF BRYN MAWR
JOIN IN REVOLT
I'lcHiili'iil Tliomns Cluugcil
Willi Arbitrary Dealings
With Fac ility.
ALI'MN.E WOULD
CHANGE THE CHARTER
, counter attack Immediately and cleared
I'll l i.AtiKi.pn I a, April II, The entlrel'bese elements, so that no permanent
body of senior professors at Ilryn Mawr ' fc'a'n for the Hermans resulted from the
College Is reported to be In revolt against
President M. Party Thomas. They
charge her with arbitrary and auto
cratic conduct In her administration und,
It Is .ilcl, nre ronsldeilng wavs and
" racult and consisted of an up-
pial for more coopor.it Ion on her Dart'" ""' 'nlHetlu wood M-ctor. Plnmini;
,,, ,,, .,..
-i'.
li was said about the college to-
day that at the nieelliig of llie directors'
committee the bom- of senior professors
unan!mntilv arraigned Dr Thomns's' a.l.
arraigned Dr. Thomas's ad-
. mliilstnttlou
nnd presentHl detailed
charge. It was al-o .a"l, that a Vi o ve
noadonilc rommlttee of the llryn Mnwr
Aiuniiirf Association anil urged bj tho
,.iru't, to tiling about other ladlcal
chnngo
Would lletlso linrlor.
Ahium.e lt:iii..,i i.i iu .!...
I'uiini iu up l or K 1 1 1 1? inr ;i rpv nn rtf
tli ouIIoch rhartr. IvtiereliV Hi. In
Mltutlon Miall be changed froiii a Quaker.
,veii a distinguished academic man de-1
cliiied ttiut nn Incident "nlinllar to the
.KcoU Nearlng case at the University
fir P.nn.vli'a.ila" I.... . ..
of I ennsylvailiA" had hlkftnfnefl fliers
and been concealed. The Issues at stake,
it Was explained later, concerned fhom.
Praruoai rnposnls'1 f0- "suitable J,t
imini uoilles. C0tllll0."ecl of mpmheiM nf
"H scademlr iirofeeslon, which may lie
r"''d Into action before university
"'" tiiMni.seii or disciplined." .
luquiry was mado of the llryn Mnwr'
''""'' professors at other lntlttitlons.
formerly been romioi'ted with
',rn. ,,m a"'' nlnmns. aKlng for
I details on the tiouble. Such a letter'
, , ,'" '" , '"; Andrews. She replied.
" "e numer no uopi sooiei
s , .,0. Hllow for rfforts of lb.
,, "bout a raiilcal io
w ..... ... nn.. v.- n.r euoris cn ine
organliatlon of the college" Her letter
says in pari :
"Our Idei would he to diaft a con.
c. " '' '"' "PP'-al to
taea,fxi ''"""i-- ami the public alike. If
'.'' 1 , ,,"1'"1 ,M" ,hr''"li. then ou
01." """Il""' 5"1"- cunipalKii of pub.
miiv .
The General Plan.
"At the moment I ran only tell ou III '
a K.iiercl way wiiat the plan would be:
"First In tlio Hi st place, that the
Hi.vn Mawr faculty, taking as a basis
for roconiinendatioiis to our titistees ibe
piiictlml proposals of the committee of
ocacletulc freedom and academic tenure
I with whoso recently published tepnrt
5"u f cu"-e, familiar) should for-
t,)(. m.inier , whl.h (h( faplty
committee nrovideil bv that return shall
no electee I. lis is an minor ant metier
llieill oers W 11 lOUl rear Ot DCItlg IllSllllSJced
by nn autucratlc executive.
"Second. That we should clinnno nor I
'charter to admit of these new legulatlons ,
I If that is necessary--In order 'that no I
I r.l,t.,. . i, ,wn..... ..i.i...- I
'" '" " v n v".,i- .miri inrwin or
r -c,..n i....... . ..i ... ....
. .i.iii. r...... on. o in.- .sui.- .mn ill up-
imlntinent, reappointment or dismissal.
"We nro hampered by having to chouse
our ttusteos entirely from one tellglous
sect hecaiire under these conditions Itrvn
Mawr cannot take advantage of the Car
negie Pension Fund for Its faculty, our
charters however, does not nspilre that
either om- ..resident or ,,r ,l..., si.n
'
be a member of the Society of Friends,
and the proposed change In the charter
would not necessitate any change In tho
personnel of tho Iseard. hut would only
have the advantage of making us Im- .
tnedlatel.v lieneflclaiies of tlio Carnegie
Pension Fund for our teaching staff,
"I elu nol wish to take part In a cam
paign that Is simply destructive In Its
nature, but I am willing to help In any
way I can toward 11 teorganinatlon of
my college, which 1 believe Is rapidly
losing Its prestige because It Is helnp;
badly administered.'
Many cases are quoteu as Having con-
tribute.!
United to the present discord. Among 1
them are tho cases of Dr. Klrharel T.
Holbrook, associate professor of romance
languages at the college; Dr. Ida Lang
don, a niece of Mark Twain and a senior
reader In English, and Dr. IMna A
Shearer, another senior reader. These',
It Is said, terminated their relations with
d their relations with ,
of conditions there. 1
ney Crane, a reader
the college because
Miss Claro Whitney
111 English, and Dr. Ileglna K. Crandall.
whom President Thomas first demoted
from her headship of essay work ami
later promoted to an asaoclateshlp in
English ut the uigliig of the alumnae,
aie also said to bo cases connected with
the rumored revolt.
In a stntement In-day I'lfsldent
Thomas said In part:
"The whole system Is radically wrong,
Professors should be made to share our
burden with us. Trustees and college
presidents should no longer shoulder
alone the responsibility of maintaining
the teaching and research of any given
college nt the highest possible level.
"Pedagogues who cannot teach and lazy
scholnis who have gone to seed have no
place In n live college. Let their fellow
professors help to turn such misfits Into
less harmful activities. It Is my hope
that.nl llryn Mawr we shall be able to
solve this most difficult problem of all
college administration In a way adapted
lo our Individual needs."
ALL DAY VERDUN BA TTLE
ENDS IN GERMAN CHECK
EAST AND WESTOFMEUSE
After Gaining Trench Elements on Douaumont-Vaux
Sector the Kaiser's Forces Are Driven Out French
Artillery Halts Enemy at Dead Man's Hill. '
Paris, Api.l II T.io Fiench front be
tween the villages of Diiuaumont nd
Vanx, to the east of the Mense, was sub-
i , , . . ....
r juctra to a nenov fli.rm.iii ufljiru mis
. " -
afternoon.
a . .... . .. . ..
. iiiiiior.iry ion g was Kiimrn in
... ... . . 7 ...
some advanced' trench elements of the
French line, but the French launched a
nfaull
The operations to-day were another In
stance of tho strategical so.ieine which
ba been employed so 'often by the
Herman command In tho Verdun ram-
"e past row days south of lioiiaumont,
lliiids wero n.ecl to rover tee attacking
iiattlcs, hut nil tho iWrm.m efforts wero
checked by the French fitr.
! M ,',,' i,l"'' "" 'be Pouauniont-
Vavx '"'''lor w'1'' 1,,mit,,t "Mr,T 11 h,av'
,lr' from ,I,H ,:"r"l!'1 "n!" i''''1 th :ir-
tlllery preparation for an attack on
I tnml w ","lt",,, "n,U ,lu'
' a"cr"""'
t'lirtnln of tins.
Shells tele.ihlug g.isi'a trr.t.ittng to
the i.v were used l.t the Dual momenta
of the preparation. When the French
1 hud Dually dilon the Gorman- from the'
"u "v inruiir(s hi men iihiims,
( i no ouiciai cominiiiinpie issuen ny
me r rentn our t.'mr iipiiikiic ioiiow.1.;
To the north of the Alsne our nrtll-
lery took under i' tire a strong Ger-
man column which was being trims-
ferred on the Cheinln ties D.unoe. A
well regulated tire caused kerious
losses to tho enemy
In the Argonue tlieto was much
activity by our artillery on the whole
front.
To the west of tho Mouse there was
a somewhat Intense bombardment III
the course of the day on our front
from l.o Mort Hommo to Cumieres.
There was no Infantry action
To the oast of the .Mouse, after
very violent artillery preparation, to
which was aciiie.1 tne intensive tnrow
' lm? of lacrinic.nl sliells, the i.irm.ms
launched toward t o'cliKif till nft'i-
noon a otroiu nttai. on our trenches
hot worn liouaiimoiit and V.iux. Tho
enem, who had sot foot in some ad
vances! clement of our lint, was
thrown back a little later by a counter
nttai k. In the course of which our
troops took about 1 del tinw minded
prisoners, Including nn office!
In tho Woevrc theie w.i artillery
flghtlni In tho sectors "f Moiilaln
vllle, ltonvnux and (iiaHllon.
Northeast of S Mihlel. our long
range pieces lioinb.irdisl with suce
a ttnlii stopped north of the railway
suction of Heiiillcourt.
There Js no Important eent to re
pot t on the rest of the front.
AVIATION On the nlchl of April
10-11 one of our hoaihat cUiik squad
rons In two dlffeieiit attacks Hiiew"
resHstlvely twenty-seven and twentv
ono bombs on the railway slat lout at
Nnntlllols and lirleullo. Tho sumo
siiundrou cuvored with liombs tho
tMnplacemoiit of a :U millimeter gun,
lirlng at long range.
Grriiinns tin In
Poollnu:.
A footing was named b the Gentian
last night cm tho slopes of ,,. .Mort
Homme, the important height on the
western nam. 01 ine i.ser. ems mil is
u,o liver ll.oi necil llliccieo, since! II
furnishes artillery emplacements com
maiidlng the line on both sides of the '
river, and Its raptuio li tho Getmatis j
would mean a still turlhtr stialghleniug
r.r .i,u c.-...,,..i, ,i,...,e u.l.l..l. ,.i.
"t ........... .....v., ........... "n .ur- ..iriiir,
.......I., i,.. ..uurt.t ... ......... "h.. .iti...i.i ......!.. ...... .
. ...ij onn .. , r.- .
ttnt by the taking of Hethlncoutl, for,
nr.-nr. ,,. s in .in- ein.
used hy
night's
thrown
till" ions nrs . utiir.tos nil. osen ny
the Germans as t lit- h.ie for last
attack. l'Mamfm; liiiinds were
in conueciiou kiiii in.- a-s.iiui. i no
tho i iiilaln thrown by the m.isse.l
trench element
The afternoon
coiiiiiiiiulqiiiV follows
On tlio left bank of the Itive-r Mouse
the GeruiaiiH vi'tteidav evening clellv
ried an otiink against our positions
at Le Mort Hommo. Tnls activity was
aeromp.iulcil by the ut-e of flaming
lliUids. Tlio attack was mado ftnm
the Coi beaux Wood and was checked
bv our curtains of iho und tho lire
of our I11f.u1ry. excepting on tho east.
where the enemy seemed a foot I
footing
in it few snrill elements of trenches.
On the tight bank of the Mouse tho
Get mans endeavored Inst night to ex
pel us Ironi the clenches taken by us
during the past few days to t lit) south
of the village of Douaumont. Tins
endeavor also t.aw the Grrmtln tnnk-
lug use of Jets of llamlng liquids. It i
was met with a sanguinary check. '
Their litis been 11 violent homhaid
tneni In the region of Douaumont .mil
Vaux and In the Woevro district there
havo beep some outbursts of artillery
lire. The night passed quietly oil the
it-malndcr of tho front.
This morning it French air pilot
vanquished n German aeroplane, which
foil within our lines near Hadniivillor.
The two enemy aviators were killed.
French military critics remurkoil to
day that the renewed German offensive
against Verdun, which was taken up on
Sunday with attacks on a front of close'
to thirteen miles, hail nairowed dmen
hy yesftrduy to a two mile front on the
west side of the Meu.sc. ,
Chrcklnar German Mot enirnls, I
Tho French artillery on the hills to
tho west of the ilvcr is rendering Im
portant service in chocking Gorman
movements on tho east as well as the
left bank. That the Germans npprocliilo ,
--. -
the value of these positions is shown by
rieo.n i l" niie ..e .i.ineii con- - . r , ,,.nna II A milas-adol s 1ut. lb. item for
. centiated machine gun Hie. chocked the "-.,.. e ... .e . ... nun , nai ino , ,,,. slll.1. ,lf . ,
I assaulting ...Ii.mns except on the eastern i; '' . l' ' ' "" ' wnui.eie.l were .dioster JMgln. ci. the K.u-lo p.m.t ,,d
slope or the mil, wneio mo i.ep.iwuis r ,.,., ' ' , ' I tho liVrwImlalo on the ground tu.it thov
gained and held a footing III some small 1 ;','. . ,. , "u"nl1 weio freighters 111 tlio serve. .. of o,.
the efforts they aie making to capture
lo Mort Homme and Hill 304,
The (lermnns lire now Intrenrl.lne- nt
i m mil :r,
tho foot of Hill 2B, the main elevation
' r,f T tn. t, .. t
, ii .lumiiie, un me easier n siue,
wiuio the French still hold the summit
' and the sIoneM. At nmnv nnim ti n. I
,,. . , ,,,, :r I
advunco on this hilt the Germans were'
exposed on open ground to the full
sweep or the French 75s and mltrall-
lenses and on most of tho front at -
tarked the Ocrmans did not reach the
I'.".? ,I.wlr, mw. Attacks against
llill 30t, the other Imnortnnt sntmnrtlnc
I'olnt, to the west of tho river, failed
when they encountered the French Are
curtain.
In tho earlier nttack on Le Mort
Hommo Sunday night, when the Her
mans succeeded In gaining foothold In
00 yards of the French trenches, they!
attempted repeatedly to press on to the
higher slopes, only to fall back with j
iiivy tosses unuer me French artillery t
and machine guns. At no time did ihev
succeed In getting more than 100 ynrdr
from their trenches, and then had to
fall back to tho positions they had
left.
According to French military writers.
Gen. Potaln Is continuing the policy he
hns followed from the first In the de
fence of Vorclun. using as small numbers
as posslhlo and keeping the remainder '
of his mutt ready for subsequent oper-.
atlons In which It Is expected that the'
French will assume tho offensive. j
Altogether the Germans nre said to
nave employed thirty-two divisions in
the Verdun campaign. The belief
expressed here that they cannot long
continue the operations on this scale
ami mat a change is to he expected
soon.
SUCCESS, SAYS BERLIN.
.More (iron ml Gained and More
Prisoners Tnkrn, la the ( Intnl.
IlKnus-. via London. April 11. There
was heavy lighting on both sides of the
Mouse In the Verdun legion yesterday.
. , .
severe loss to t.u- iau,ii.
Further Oenvan successes south of!t1"- Plc;l of Justltlcatlon for slnkins the
tho Corbeaux wood netted 222 more
prisoners, and counter attacks attempted
by the French from Chattancourt were
stopped by the flanking fire of German
artillery on the east bank of the river.
To the cast of the Mouse French at
tempts to retake positions lost on the
Cote du Polvrc failed and the German
forecs mado further advances south
cast of Fort Douaumont.
This was the official bulletin:
' In tlio Argonno, near La Fills
I Morte, and furthtr to the east, near
vaiiquois, Ui Flench, who cuused
several mine explosions, succeeded
"iil in liitllcting damage on them
selves. Flglitlnc proetnied with great vigor
throughout the whole of yrstordav In
tiie regions on both bides o'f the Mouse.
Counter attacks by the Fiench against
he positions wo raptured south of
Forges ilvulet, between Haucourt nml
Hethiuooiiri, btoke down with severe
loss to the enemy.
The number of unwound.! prisoners.
canon ncro was increased from
Luaeu iium OI11-
t i ls and fitH men to 3fl ofllcers und
1....1 men, and tho booty capturtsi two
cannon and twenty-two machine guns.
ooty capturtsi two
one inach.no gun and 222 prisoners
weio brought in as the result of
further captuies aiming the block
house south of Havens Fat est cCor
beaux Wood).
. Counter attack from the direction of
I'liattaneourt weie checked by our
effective flanking tiro fiom the eastern
hank.
On l io tight bink nf tho Mouse Hie
eii-tnv attempted in vain In recipturo
i h mound lost on the southwestern
eel no of l'oivre Itlclgo.
Southwest of Foil Douaumont tho
enemy was compelled to relinquish
further defensive positions, from which
ve brought back .some few dozen
prisoners and tlireo machine guns,
Two enemy iieriplanos were btought
down southeast of Yprns by anti-all -etaft
gun.
Tiie Ovoiseas Nevis Agency issued a
statement lo-da annitiiiciiig that inoio
than Sti.iiOii Fiench have been taken
luisonei s in tlio Vontmi I'.tllin.i leu nlnn I
Its liegiunlng mi Feliruarv 21. Twenty-
five square kilometers of ground havo
I. ...... I f n... ,
"Geiinan tiewspapeiH point out that
..... . ...i .iiiurr. .
..... .. ..... ...... , nioi ..Ul I n .1 M
'. "'" ."-in nil un was,
ovacuat-el In accni. lance w Ith plans pre-
xiously made. Nevertheless It has been I
ascortiilne. tha nn cider was l-sueel
' ... ........ m ..s. ....... n. no iios pre-
-:"" ............ -"i-si oo
V'1'1 "' !l" 'Ircuuistauces.' The fa.-t
"According" to 1I1,. Ftench renoits. tbe
now line inns from the southern corner
of Avocourt Wood along the first slopes
of 11111 SO I: thence along the southern
bank of Forges llrnok, palng to the U('11011 ,IH1 "'0 w.u would bo tne,
northeast of llniicourt; turning east- j w "hl" tw" ""'Ths pmv ided 1 He Fnitt 1
Viatel, crosses the Hothliiootirt-Hsues ! States did not pi ess t.i,. suhniaune is.
road at a point south of tho Junction of 'Uu tho point of ir.volv im; tlio two
that road with the highway tf Cliattan- Governments In iinfiiondly rtiatioiis.
court, and reaches tho Mouse lust north
of Ciimloros, Tho fortifications of tho
village or Avocourt, which Is south of
Avocourt Wood, wero destroyed by the
German advanco of April as reported,'
FIGHT I NO AT ST. ELOI.
11,1,1.1 1
"iii- l!
I'hree Craters Rn-
littles Mines,
Sprrial Vahlt Dmpnlrh to Tiir. Srx.
Lospo.v. April 11 The following re
port from llrlllsli liiMdquarteiH In France
was Issued by tlio official pies bureau
to-night :
Theio wa grenado fighting in the
craters east of St. Elot last night. The
struggle there continues with varinr
foitviue, Wo hold three crattiti mid
not the otlie'r two at present.
To-day the rnctiiy ixplodcd mines
1101 ineusi en t ei incur,, damaging (l
l"'tl"n of nn old crater without alter-
miu.iuoo
There was considerable attillerv ac.
tlvity opposite Wytschaete and thejie
were iinlinpiirlnnt ill tlllery engage,
nionts near Souchts nnd cast of
Naples.
In the course of eight llxiits In the i
air islenla our machines biouglit I
down nuo of the enemy's iiriicjikiuc.
without Mistainlug loss. During the
day one of our aeroplanes was brought
nay l lie- en iiur tici
ll(,wt, ,y gun llie,
CABINET SPLIT
ON THE SUSSEX
HALTS WILSON
He Wavers Between (Joing
to Congress and Send
ing ' New Note.
HKiiv.'imrvn ..r. , . , .
i J Till. . Lt Mf P h .S I'l; -
HAS STRONG EFFECT
,
1
, , , , . ,
A in itassador Said to Prc-
I
diet Early Peace if V. S.
Keeps Off.'
...
Ijl.'PI I W nrflPP i.
IH.IU.I I I'JI It l
ALSO A FACTO!
President's Final Action
May Surprise Pncifists.
It Is Said.
WashimitoV. April 1 1. I'm tul"iii WIN
Is'0" llcm' ''"der'tond In .o wavering
between two courses of action on tho
submarine Issue with Germiiiiv.
One Is to take tho matter up with
Congress as a preliminary to rt lueak,
In diplomatic relations und the other Is
to embody cumulative evidence of tecent
submarine attacks In a final note i
the llorlln Foreign Office, llotli courses
were discussed at length at the Cabinet
meeting to-day.
Officials K.iy the Piosidcni iia- not
weakened In his determination to foro
an accounting with Gorm.ui, hut they
add tint Merlin's ofC.cl.il dl.-cl.itiner of
responsibility on the Sussex ease utnl
lour otner smiw concerning which the
United States mado renreisentntlons imn
virtually foiced the matter back into
the note writing stage.
Tlio possibility that diplomatic nrKo
tlatlons may be reopened on the whola
Issue has ulready relieved the t.-iislun
somewhat, though Germanv'H keen re
eentment of President Wilson's Implica
tion that her pledge to the United Slatea
has been violated la an unpleasant fac
tor for tho Administration to consldoi
Aritnniruta In Cnhlnet.
The President heard nrgum, tti-- n tlio
Cabinet meeting In favor of railing Gei.
many to account and Insistm,- Cn.,,.
antoed detlnlto pledges tlmt inort. an
lives iwoultl hencofoitli be pi otc. cm
tho high seas, hiiiI he likiwis,, ho.ud
some of his ollici.il ndvieis iircne in
favor of nocking some rnitnimtnlso ib.ci
would delay any dr finite action. As tho
evidence on the Suse-ex case, which is
coming , the steamship St Paul will
not be hero before Fildav morn tig tun
President reserved final Judgment
count von li.rnstorff'K lsit ih
.
I i, ' ' !''" ""eni yc siernay anil tho
s aim imkoii ny the Iterilu Govein
....... n... nun me tiieri or providing
the strongest pence adlieteuts of the
I President's e-.ii.in.-t with iiunin cards to
I play.
1 They point out thai press ng the Sus.
si'.x cao might so offend ilerui.nis as lo
lead to a flat iefu.il from Itorllii to
agree to any coiicmsoiis at nil and
might lesiili In the lotr.icilon of tilt
tentative. Gorman promises made. In
dueling tho promise not to sinK liners)
j without winning
, The evidence ;n ihe Sussex case is
now consideied of less importance than
; the neces-aliy to aii,el tr.nililo with Gel
I ic.itny, according to mem'aers of the Cab-
itiei. nicy aigue t.iat tho President
wants pe.uo, that Geimati wants peao
and tll.lt l-ollsequetllly no step should bo
taken by tho. I'nued States whan cou d
even remotely suggest iioiihle.
Accoidi.,4 lo their c i, w iho mn
point is to Und l In- mean. wheieh the
I'lfsldent and iierm.ui mat as.e o ecele
1 '' 1 ominon giouud for iicn'otniiio
j " "ernslorlT's Inlliieeece.
Count vvnt Hot nstorif's intlnoi.eo . ,. ti,.
I. . . ... . " " """" " '" '"
llieiiiict, oil I' . II op tllcl la.l"eadc I ere
I ...... ... . " . ' .c-i. t er
1 moments at the State Hepai-tioent. aim ,
evineni, aillioilgn ho onlv
, lint 1 1 1 II J r t Ol 111 to lilt O I .llSe. Se- 1 01. ,
not iiuiii'rstoiiu to hnvo i.iuse.i sii-.'ici.iM
Lmslng to alter 1H view that ine ti.e-
f,. 1( delln.to s,.,,!,.,,,..,,, I ., ! , ,v
i,. ntr.ved. Ht ,..,,. ,,,11.,..,; , ),
, n.i vo iioon linpieeil with G.rmc.ns
, ,.c a.m. r of rei.ons,bllii ., .. ,, , ,i."
enemy.
Another veiy .oipoi t.ini po.nt wololi
Count von Hernsioi if is uin.erstood in
"ave oinp iasi.:d .vist.tdav w.i.. Ins con-
, lh innro the I tilted States presses II..
Issue the mine tho Entente Allies w
e encoiirngod and the longer tlio w
will last, according to the wnimm m
German eiicles.
The. suggestion Is made In German
qtiarteis that .1 few mole, months eleliv
on the submarine Issue may seo all tii-t
illflloultle.s solved by tlio end of tin, war.
For this leason. It Is sal.l, lli.rlln will
ingly routis diplomatic negotiations an.l
delay.
Tho GeMtarati Government furthermore!
foils that tlio Putted States has no
r.tuso for complaint over lids hccaiiMs
Gei many, nrcording 10 Count von
Iternstoiff. has ulteadv nude mum con
cession 10 I'lesldeilt Wilson than Great
Iltltiini has. Count von Hornstoiff never
falls to remind Scciet.iry Lansing tint.
Groat Britain has conceded absolutely
nothing.
1
Mr. I.aiishiu's Position.
Secretary Lansing takes the position
that two wrongs do not make n. right
anil refuses to be guided 111 his dealings
wltll del man b what has taken place
in tlio negotiations between tho Pplttsl
States and Groat Britain either mem.
bei's of iho Cabinet do not view problems
of intoinatlon.il law in tile same Injlit ns.
Sortetar) Lansing.
They arc iiilluenred ny Germany s con.
Mention In this regard, and onn Cabinet
1 member has repeatedly followed Mr,
llitin' lend In urging that represent.
1 ,jl .v ,.H:.-,'?T'ferf
