"insf -;yiiwainyt mjiqimri-sit&-ax
BMiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituenm
VOL. Hi STO. 181
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1910.
cortuont, 1010, tt ma Polio LtMii Oowrmr.
PRICE ONE CENT
Mr
b.
K
1
r-
it;
I,
R. H. DAVIS,
NOTED WRITER,
FALLS DEAD
Author, Playwright, News
paperman, Stricken at
Telephone
PHILADELPHIA HIS HOME
Career Began With Story of
''Gallagher" Famous War
Correspondent
Richard Harding Davis, famous author,
playwright and newspaperman, died last
night nt his homo in Mount Klsco. N. Y.,
a few momenta after receiving n message
over tho telephone. His wife, Bessie Mo
Coy, tlio former actress, was nearby nnd
on falling to receive nny response from
her husband, after waiting n reasonable
time, she went to his study and found him
dead" near the telephone.
Tho funeral will be held Friday, maybe
In Philadelphia. Mrs. Davis And brother
and sister of the author will help malto
arrangements, and decide whether or not
to bury him here where his mother nnd
father are burled. Ho leaves one child;
Hope, a daughter of IB months.
Mr. Davis began his professional career
In this city nnd his rlio to fame was rapid
when, ns a reporter, ho wroto tho fnmous
"Gallagher," a- newspnper story which
throbbed with heart Interest and facts of
newspaper Ilfo
Ills career was one of romanre nnd nd
venturo which was In keeping with the
many stirring talcs of which ho was pro
line. It Is believed that tho haidslilps which
ho was compelled to face as a unr cor
respondent together with an attack of
ptomnlno poisoning hastened his death
Ho was a man of vigorous constitution and
often worked for houis without rest
Even his closest friends were not aware
that ho was 111. nnd news if his death
camo as n great shock to his friends In
this city. He was 52 years old.
A THOIIOUGH I'HILADDM'IIIAN.
Mr. Dnvls was a Philadelphia!! through
and through,' nnd while the greater part of
his productive yenrs In journalism were
spont In New York, he nlwn.ys liked to re
call that he got his start here, and wrote
his first series of stories here; a series
that has remained among his brightest.
"Gallagher," ho called tho first story in
that book, nnd named the 'book after it: n.
story of a cop boy on tho Press, where he
worked as a reporter.
Newspapermen knew him ns "nick,"
and over since ho went to work as a re
porter, nbout 30 years ago. hundreds of
other reporters liava referred to him fa
miliarly ?s "Dick Davis." though many
Continued on 1'uffe Hlttrrn, Column One
, FATHER MEETS DEATH
c- INFILRC&BATTLEFOR
POSSESSION OF GIRL
Pretty 17-Year-01d Daughter
Badly Cut, While Protector
Is Injured in
Struggle
FIGHT WILDLY FOR GUN
A father met his death today while
grappling with tho protector of his daugh
ter, whose face he had dlhtlgured with a'
razor. He was shot twice .In a tierce
hand-to-hand struggle for tho revolver In
a bakery shop at 2027 North 18th street.
j- The dead man is'Arlzonla Trnno, 39
f years old, of 13th street nnd Washington
' avenue. ,
His daughter, protty 17-year-old Jullu
Trauo, cut deep about the head and face,
Is at the Woman's Homeopathic Hospltul.
Her protector, America Rochl. proprietor
of tho bakery shop, narrowly escaped
death, two shots grazing Mm. - Trano's
revolver was emptied In tho melee, ono
. shot at Julia, bne at Rochl's wife, two at
Rochl and the last two into his own body
while he and Kochl fought like wild men
for the. gun. " '
"Ho insulted me! My father Insulted
ma!" wept pretty Julia, forgetting her
t Injuries In an attempt to absolve ,Rochl
from blame.
The neighborhood was aroused by the
fusstlade of shots which rang out shortly
after 9 o'clock. Trano appeared at the
shop demanding his daughter, who had
been placed in custody of the Hochls by
a. Catholic Institution six months ago
when her father was sent to. the House
of Correction for an alleged attempt to
assault her. Her mother Is dfad.
Rochl's wife, Mtb. Mary Rochl, was be-
Continued on I'me Two, Column One
THE WEATHER
At thlsv writing we can afford to laugh
at Boston. It's raining there ha, ha
yen, "a veritable downpour" the paper
states it. And look at the tine Bunny day
we have for our opening game! Hold on
there rwhere's that sun gone to7 Ah,
there he Is; he's out again. By the' way,
that was an awful shock, that thunder
storm that passed near Philadelphia early
today. Didn't you hear it? Thought It
would rain and spoil the game. For our
part, we could never understand, after
perusing the accounts of very large earn
ings by- ball clubs, why It wouldn't pay to
put up a big canvas tent for use on rainy
days. It wouldn't have to be to tre
mendously high, for they could hive a
new rule that all pop (lies that hit the
top of the tent would be out, whether the
ball was caught or not.
Any one who would knock the bull
straight up In the air ought to be out,
anyhow.
FORECAST ,
?or Philadelphia and vicinity
Fair tonight; Thursday increasing
cloudiness and somewhat warmer;
fresh westerly winds becoming fight
and variable.
I,OST AlfD FOT7ND
HAB PJN fpoit"" Tuesday evn!njr. April 11,
hetun Bllevue Stratford ballroom nni
Gwbroolt & crsitut UUmoad tud a.pDbtr I
Ha i" nln. maTtnlml In iil.it Iniim Raiua i '
n-luraM tv J k CIJwU A Co.. DOS Cbttl-
nat Ktrtet.
CUSTO.N 4Ulf.L-7Luat U p. m April IJ. cor.
141 4U3 Sunn ' nutl Xioaton bull, uialv.
ar.yur to aawt. nt Chappy Reward. Uc-
tuio 1.. iJo rtic i
HA
t VU-LiOt
UJ s leather tmailUna con
in wMtfb ifrnad potkeibook with la .iul
' UliS V'tww t . imrinnmown.
Ur- ci - - - - ; six i
fU xV . - - . Ml
UX 1?Sfc . M
!V &V
RICIIAUD HARDING DAVIS
GERMANY SEES
PEACE' HINTS IN
ASQUITH SPEECH
Eeports of Premier's Ad
dress Profoundly Im
press Berlin
SOME POSSIBLE TERMS
By CARLwW. ACKERMAN
UKRLIX, April 12.
The end of tho war has been brought
appreciably nearer by significant develop
ments of the last 4 a hours.
Press reports of Premier Asquttli'tMop
day. night. reply to Chancellor "dn'filcth-mjinn-Hollweg'a
speech ranched Berlin to
day,' They created n mild sensation'. Dis
regarding certain belligerent phrases, well
informed Germans interpreted Asqulth's
speech as1 a frank hint that tho time 13
drafting near when nngland will bo will
ing to enter peace, discussions.
The Hollweg and Asquith statements,
together with recont otllclal and unofllclnl
utterances, Indlrnto that peaco prospects
are taking thapo along tho lines Indicated
In tho following subdivisions.
Indemnities Both Germany and
Knglnnd apparently have abandoned
the Idea of making tho enemy pay
for the war
Belgium Tho Allies demand res
toration and complete Independence of
Belgium. Germany agrees to this,
provided that Belgium does not dis
criminate against Germany after the
war.
Poland Germany Insists that con
quered Polish territory shall not bo
iciurneu to mo czar. Ktissla pledges
nutononiy for tho Poles. In tho fare
of German claims, England and
Franco are silent on tho, futuro of
Poland.
Baltlo provinces and other Russian
territory held by the Austro-Cfrrmans
Germany Insists that Kone of this
territory bhall be surrendered to tha
Czar. The Allies are silent In this
point.
Balkans Tho central empires In
sist that Russia shall never again
dominate Balkan affairs. Bulgaria
will demand Serbian Macedonia. Pre- .
mler Asquith has announced that not
only must Serbia bo restored, but
that she must receive territorial com
pensation for her sufferings.
Alsace-Lorraine Germany has
made no recent otllclal statement, but
Important suffrage concessions have
been made to the provinces. In
France the clamor for tho restoration
of "Alsace-Lorraine complete appar-v
vntly has subsided.
Colonies Germany counts as cer
tain the restoration of her lost
colonies, or an equivalent cession of
coonal, territory, and recognition of
the right of expansion In the direction
of Bagdad. The Allies have been
silent on the subject of Germany's
colonies.
For the first time since the beginning
of the war, the English Premier, Germans
Interpret his speech, modified his demand
that Prussian militarism' must be crushed.
When he substituted for this the statement
that German "military caste" must not in
the future guide Germany's International
policies, Germans believe that he executed
a complete backdown.
Germans assert that the so-called "mili
tary caste" was not in the diplomatic
saddle before the war and that the Chan
cellor's recent vfctory over the von Tirpltz
faction , is evidence that the element
Asquith professes to fear has not gained
control of Germany's fo'relgn policies.
Few persons In Berlin believe that the
Allies will enter peace discussions until
they have attempted another offensive la
the West. But the most recent develop
ments support the statement made re
cently to correspondents by a high Ger
man Government otllclal that the war
may end by autumn, and the recent
declaration of the French Minister of
Finance, that the end of the war is In
sight.
HIS BACK BROKEN IN BOUT
Baltimore Y, M, T. A. Member In
v jtjred While Wrestling
BALTIMOKK, M(L, April 12 Walter
O'Neill. 2S, a member of the Yoyng
Men's Christian Association, was badly
injured last night in a friendly wrestling
bout in the gymnasium when Max Siegel.
powerful but unskilled, got a full-Nelson
op him and dislocated several vertebrae)
in nis spinal comma
Th wboJe lower part of Q'NeJU'a
s
la. U3 -' ;-', u,n 3xWS
CARRANZA FORCE
CHASES VILLA IN
FLIGHT TO HILLS
Officials State Outlaw
Wounded and Has
Escaped
Is
REPORT OF U. S. BATTLE
Th'irty-two Villistns Slain,
Forty Captured, in Clash
. Near Parral
Francisco Villa, wounded and with
n gunrd of only 150 men, has gone
into the mountains, according to nn
official report from General Luis
Gutierrez, Carranza commander in
Chihuahua
Carranza troops have been dis
patched to wipe out the band and to
take Villa.
(Just when these operations occur
red nnd whether or not they ante
date reports of Villa's death is not
known. It is possible Villa died after
starting his flipcht to the mountnins.
Also, it is not known just what
"mountains" arc meant. Rumors of
Villa's death arc now generally dis
credited.) Unofficial reports say that n de
tachment of United States cavalry
mot and routed a band of Villistns nt
Troya, near Parrnl, killing 32 and cap
turing -10. Villa was not in the fight.
Other reports say that Villa is well
within tho State of Durango nnd that
tho American troops in pursuit have
crossed the State lino and are now
more than -100 miles south of the bor
der. General Carranza permitted for the
first time use of the Mexican Central
Railway to transport munitions to the
American expedition. General Fun
ston already has forwarded a train of
supplies to Chihuahua City over this
direct route.
Washington regards this permis
sion ns further evidence of Cnr
rariza's support and tho move ap
pears to dispose of rumors that the
American troops would be recalled.
VILLA REACHES MOUNTAINS;
CABRASZ1STAS OX THE TRAIL
"WASHINGTON", 'April. 12, X pnbte
gram from General Obregon to tha Mex
ican Fmbassy today said Villa, according
to his reports, had gono into the moun
tains wounded, with fewer than 150 men.
Tho message from Queretnro said:
I send tho following from General
Luis Gutierrez, chief of operations in
Chihuahua -
'The bandit Villa has lost almost all
his followers during the recent battles
forced on him by our troops, and It Is
confirmed that he was wounded In the
battle of Clenegulta General Luis
Continued on faso hrien, Column Tiki
T0MKINS DENOUNCES
'SWINISH' MARRIAGES
FOLLOWING DIVORCES
Holy Trinity Rector Refers to
Philadelphia Cases as "Bes
tial" in Addressing
Congressmen
TALKS ON- EDMONDS BILL
Bv a Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON, April" 12, Declnring
that personally he does not believe In
the granting of divorces in any circum
stances, the Itev Dr. Floyd W. Tom
kins, of Holy Trinity Church. Philadel
phia, today appeared befpro tho House
Judiciary Committee and advocated a
federal uniform divorce law. Doctor
Tomltlnu Hpol.o In favor of the uniform
divorce resolution Introduced In the House
by Representative George W. Edmonds,
of Philadelphia.
"When a man und woman marry,"
said Doctor Tomklns, "they take each
othor for better or for worte. If, when
difficulty comes, tho man wants to put
away his wife, he Is a coward. In ninety
nine cases out of a hundred, divorce Is
due to a desire to marry some one else.
They really don't marry any one else
at all, because If a man has a wife
living and takes some one else for a
wife he is an adulterer. The same Is
tr,ue of the woman who marries another
man when her husband is living.
"The rich divorce each other more fre
quently than the poor. Our condition has
become almost bestial. A divorced woman
marries a divorced man. I have known
a half dozen cases of that kind In Phila
delphia. If that Isn't awinlah, I don't
know what is. Personally, I don't be
Heve In divorce at all."
' "Are you opposed to 'divorce even for
adultery?" Doctor Tomklns was asked.
, "Yes," he said. "The divorce evil to
day Is worse than slavery. It Is worse
than drunkenness. More than 3,000,000
divorces have 'been granted In the last SO
years. Only one nation baa a larger
number of divorces than we have Japan."
Itabbl Abraham Simon, of Washington,
spoke in favor of.the Edmonds measure,
pointing out that underexlstlng condi
tions first cousins are prohibited from
carrying In some States, and permitted
to marry In others.
He favored divorce as a necessary evil,
saying, "It would be Inhuman not to
grant any divorces,"
' "We have no divorce law in South Caro
lina and we are not inhuman," said Rep
resentative Whaley. -fc '
Live Stock Dies in Fire at Wtconlsco
POTTSVILLB, Pa.. April- 1 Two
horses, two mules and 2Z cows perished
in the barn of William Erdman. at Wlcon
Isoo. which waa destroyed by Are late last
nlgbt The Are wan cuused by lightning
The crops and farming implements were j
FIRST SKY SALUTE TO SPRING
Thunder Rattles Windows nnd Wnkcs
Many Persona Ltfrhtnlng Not
Vivid Little Rntn
The first thunderstorm of tho year
rumbled across tho sky from the north
wcBt enrly today.
It was short mid sharp. The bolts
Jarred tho sky and rattled windows, wak
ing mnny persons. Some of them thought
that tho first nalulo from the sky ar
tillery shortly after midnight was a huge
explosion nt Bomo distant powder works,
but when tho echoes rolled across the
vault of tho sky they realised that It was
spring's first thunder. Tho lightning was
not vivid nnd little ruin fell.
The fact that the clouds had become
surcharged with enough electricity to
manufacture lightning and thunder Is
taken b a sure Indlmtlon that winter has
befin left behind. The positle utid nega
tive Ions which cnuno the spark of light
ning to leap from cloud to cloud or from
cloud to earth arc not strong enough In
winter, ns n rule, to produce lightning.
3000 BRITISH
KILLED IN DASH
TO REACH KUT
Constantinople Reports Re
pulse of Aylmer's
Great Rush
BATTLE OF SIX HOURS
ItnrtUN, April 1
More than ,1000
llrltlsli soldiers wriM
kllktL mid thousands nt others wounded In
an fiiisuceossful attack on tho Turkish
lines enst of Kiit-el-Aninrn, the Turkish
War Ofllco reported today.
The British defeat Is tho most disas
trous since tho beginning of Gener.il
Aylnicr'H campaign to iclieo General
TownBhciid's forces, besieged In Kut-ol-Amaru
for more than four months.
The fighting occurred near Fcluhle, 2",
miles east of Kut-el-Amarn, in tho bend of
the Tigris River.
"After nn hour and a half of heavy ar
tillery preparation," s.ild tho Turkish olll
clnl statement, "the enemy attacked with
nil his forces our positions near Felahle
Tho battlo Insted l hours. Tho enemy
nt tho beginning penetrated parts of our
trenches, hut Turkish troops killed ull
theso enemy forces with tho bayonet.
, "The remainder of tho llrltlsli troops
were driven off, suffering heavy losses. In
tho Turkish trenches and before them
were counted 3000 of tho enemy's dend."
Several days ago tho London War
Olllco announced winning a couple of lines
of Turkish trenches nt FcUhleo. From the
context of tho Turkish bulletin, printed
above, the battle described may refer to
the same action.
STOCKHOLDERS APPROVE
. .KLECTItfrptVTK vDjfyRftASB
Consent of Board to Lower Prices In
dorsed at Meetfig
Stockholders of tho Philadelphia Elec
tric Company, nt the nnnunl meeting to
day, voted their approval of the action
the board of directors has taken In con
senting to a reduction of tho rates of tho
company, which matter Is now before tho
Public Service Commission. It was also
voted to "back" the board in ull Its deal
ings during the coming year. Tho meet
ing wns held at 117 Market fetreAt, Cam
den. Details of the proceedings brought
up before tho Public Service Commission
wero not asked for.
A 15-page report of tho company for
tho lust year was put In tho hands of
each stockholder. Tho only dissatisfac
tion expressed at this report was by Dr.
Mary Snyder
Tho only stockholder to object to tho
resolution, that the future deals nnd trans
actions of the board of directors bo un
qualifiedly approved, was George II
Stovcnson.
"The board may do things of which we
will never hear." he proteMed," and of
which wo might not approve. Why should
we approve nowof things that nro done
in tho future and which we may not
llvo?
"In tho past wo havo always been for
tunate In having the entire confidence of
the stockholders," said President McCall.
"I will put the matter to u vote. All In
favor will ho signify."
Thero was a chorus of approval,
"All opposed, say no," 'continued Mr.
McCall.
"No," shouted Mr. Stevenson.
It was reported that thero was an In
crease in the last year of 9350 consumers.
The gross earnings were ?8,777,9"4 40.
The net earnings, minus taxes, eta, were
J2.1H. 550.84. After the dividend of 7 per
cent, was paid there was a surplus ac
count of J840.239.41, making a total sur
plus account of $3,311,986.58.
The following board of directors was re
elected: Jeremiah J. Sullivan, Charles U.
Ingersoll, J. n, McAllister, John T. Wind
rim. Sidney F. Tyler, Joseph B. McCall,
W. II. Johnson, A. V. R. Coe and Martin
V. Bergen.
"Woman Who Cut Her Throat Dies
A woman sold to have been Mrs. Julia
Hummell, who cut her throat with a
razor on December 26 In a room at 1207
Brandywine street, died today at ' tho
Hahnemann Hospital. Police were unable
to Identify the woman positively as Mrs.
Hummell. She was also known as Mrs.
Julia Cresson. The body was sent to tha
morgue.
Register Tgday!
Those not registered for the pri
mary election may do so, in the
division polling places, between the
hours of 1 a. in. and 10 a. m., and
between 4 p. m. and 10 p. m.
Electors who voted in the last,
the mayoralty election, who hava
not moved, or who do not desire to
change their party enrolment, need
not appear nt the registration
booths today.
Voters, otherwise qualified, who
moved from one division to another
before March 16, may aualify and
register for the new divisions to
day. Members of one party, who, in
the last election, changed' their
party status by voting for a ma
jority of the candidates of nnather
party, may change, their party en
rolment today.
According to theh party enrol
ment, electors will receive party
ballots on primary day, May 16.
Tfrose not enrolled for the pri
mary may vote only for candidates
for the judiciary.
PHILLIES OPEN
SEASON WITH
NEW YORKERS
Weather Man Gives Fans of
Quaker City Great
Baseball Day
ALEXANDER TO PITCH
Favorhblc Weather for
Opening Game, Says Bliss
Director Blls3, of the Wcnthcr
Bureau, promises almost ideal base
ball weather for today's Ramc, ex
cept thnt it could be a little
warmer. The official Micrmomctcr
on top of the Federal Building will
reKlRtor C5 degrees, according to
his predictions, and the day will be
fair. This, with yesterday's warm
temperature to add a crispness to
the ground, should plcuso all dev
otees of the sport.
By ROBERT W. MAXWELL
The weather man has come through
with tho proper dope, tho sky promises to
remain Intact without cracking In a moist
nnd vulnerable spot and tho stage Is set
for tho first act of tho 1910 baseball sea
son at Broad and Huntingdon strccta this
afternoon.
Tho rain last night caused considerable
worry among tho fans, but tho playground
was not Injured. A corps of workmen
worked nit morning rolling tho diamond,
and then to provo that everything was
O. K tho riills went through u snappy
practlco lieforo thuy went to lunch.
Indications point to a record-breaking
crowd for tin opening game. All of tho re
herved seats havo been sold and tho fair
weather will bring out the bloachorltcs In
htigo Hocks ISirly this morning tho cash
customers put In an nppe.irnnce, and by
noon a long lino had formed. At 1 o'clock,
when tho gates wero thrown open, there
wan u rush for tho select seats In tho
sun, and the audience, wearing overcoats
and heavy clothing, settled down to enjoy
a two hours' wait. The band entertained
with stlirlng melodies.
Tho ISIantH lolled about tho hotel this
morning resting up for the struggle. Tho
phi ore. with the exception of Robert, uro
In excellent condition and confident of
winning the first game. I.obcrt's loss,'
Hon over, will be keenly felt, as ho Is
suffering from a wrenched knee and prob
ably will bo out of tho gamo for u week
or inoie.
Benny ICauff Is anxiously awaiting the
opening gun. It is his first appearance In
n hlg-lciiRUo contest and ho Is eager to
make good.
"No, I am not at nil nervous," he said
at tho Majestic this morning. "I feel a
trlllo timid, however, but that usually Is
tho caBfi with ull ball players on tho open
ing day. I am gomg to do my best and
hopo to provo that I am as good H3 they
f-saYJmtoifiUiniifUfjtnd?sltns.ttr,:;
1-1....... ,..:.. t.ll..-1...AlP 1,,, 1 fin (rrtfd ,T,nm
imvu fiocu til,,. ,vwrt, M,,v ... .. ,-"" .-
nnvwhoro' near tho nlato I will keen the
outfielders busy. Too bad tho-right-field;
fonce l.i so high. You know, I hit them
on a lino, and the only chnnco to get the
ball ovor Is to knock tho fenco down.
"I will watch Cravnth closely nnd see If
I can determines how ho happoned to make
so mnny home runs last year. Ho must
be a great batter "
With tho Nutlonal League pennant
flouting proudly to tho breeze and the
patriotic orators spilling language all over
tho place, tho opening ceremonies were
Contlnurd on mine 13, column 1.
BRITISH NOTE SAYS 38
TAKEN ON CHINA WERE
PLOTTERS OF REVOLT
Reply to American Protest As
serts Prisoners Were En
gineering Uprising in
India
SHANGHAI THEIR BASE
WASHINGTON, Aprlt 15.
Gicut Britain contends that the removal
of 38 Germans, Austrians nnd Turks from
tho American steamship China by the
British cruiser Iiurentlo In Chinese
waters on February 18 was legal, because
those persons we're engaged In plotting j
against the "llrltlsli Government Both
the American protest in this caso und tho
British reply, which was written by Kir
Edward Grey, British Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs, were given out for
publication by the Stato Department today.
The British reply states that the Ger
mnn residents of Shanghai. China, plotted
to ship arms and ammunition to India to
aid a revolution against the British there,
The plot was discovered und teveral ar
rested, the note charges. Others In the
plot, the note says, wero to go to Manila
to carry on tho work thero. The 38 per
sons taken off the China were all alleged
to be on their way to Manila to plot
against the British Government.
. MAY REJECT ANSWEIt
Whllo no otllclal announcement was
made. State Department officials made It
plain that they do not believe this Gov
ernment will accept the British position.
They believe that another note will be sept
to Great Britain at once, demanding posi
tive proof that the 38 persons taken from
the China were actually engaged In plot
ting against the British Government, If
this proof Is not forthcoming It Is thought
here the release of the 38 persons again
will be demanded by this Government.
The British note says In part:
"Tr)0 present war has shown that the
belligerent activities of the enemies of
this country are by no means confined to
the actual theatres of military and naval
operations and that there is no limit to
the methods by which Oermany In par
ticular seeks to secure a victory for her
arms. The hostile efforts of the enemy
have shown and continue to show them
selves on neutral soil in many parts of
the world In political Intrigues, revolu
tionary plots, schemes for attacking tho
sea-borne trade of this country and her
allies, endtavoru to facilitate tha opera
tions of ships engaged In tills task, and
in criminal enterprises of different kinds
directed against the. property of neutrals
anil haWKerer.'- alike. War has in efrecjt
been exteode t far beyond the bounds of
the area in which opposing armiea
maneuver, and an unscrupulous belliger
ent (nay indict the deadhe c blows on
QUICK NEWS
RAIN IN BOSTON? GAME MAY BE (CALLED OFF
. BOSTON, MaBS., April 13. The weatherman lunde the first
error of tho season today when, despite his protests that there would
.he nothing but sunBhlno for1 tho ,orJjnlng game, tho ran began to
full early this morning aud at nodn turned Into a veritable down
pour." It wns still raining at 2 cj'clock. - '
TWO ACCUSED OF-SELLING "DOPE" TO GIRLS
' HABRlSBUllO, April 12. Charged with supplying opium and
ntorplil'no to young girls, Donald Brloker and Ray Alexander, each
21 ycdis old, were nrtcstcd by. the city police in connection with
the Pcdeial authorities. TeUeral agents havo been Cinw.ug a net
around a group of "dope" sellers for several months and othtr ar
rests are expected which may Include several doctors' and druggists.
BRUMBAUGH REAPPOINTS BUREAU CHIEFS
i
HAHRISBimG. Pa., April 12. Governor Brumbaugh this
afternoon reappointed James E. Roderick Chief of the State Bureau
of Mines nnd N. R, Buller, Commissioner ofUtc Fisheries.
NEW BRITISH STEAMSHIP TORPEDOED
LONDON, April 12. The ne.w 34.07 ton Biitlsh steamship ben
ntor of Whitby has been sunk by a German submarine. The crew
was btivccl.
GERMANS REPULSE SLAV ATTACK
BERLIN, April 12. A .Russian night attack in the tcgiou of
Gurbunuwku wutt rcipulbcd, lite' Wor Office iiunounccd th,!?, ultuuooii.
SENATE CALLS FOR "UNPREPARED" NAVY REPORT
WASHINGTON, April 12. Tho Senuto today adopted a resolution by Senator
Lodge, of MuHsnchusetts, dlicctlng Secretary of tho Navy Daniels (to dollver to.
It repot ts of the navy general beard, dated August 3, 1914, nnd of Admiral Flako,
dutcd November 0, 1914, warning; of tho unprepared condition rC"' navy.
URGES BRIDGE, NOT TUNNEL, FROM, CITY TO CAMDEN
A resolution favoring expendlturo of moneys at present for a bridge' and
not for u tunnel to connect this city and Camden was adopted today at a meeting
of the Delaware River Bridge and' Tunnel Commission at tho ofllce of tho choir
man, Samuel P, French, 305 Market street,, Camd'on.
"Tho sentiment of the peonlo of Camdbri. and Philadelphia favors a brldcA
because it, Ik the most econorrilca!,"T8ald
-Morgan, TTsIneer, Cowperthwalte, Walton, -Burroughs', Barlpif- and. Pfelffo w
..-. ,
.Rpriolnte4.tcftc61nraltt6ea4jtoateoha'r!e-uTUileirork .The commission. "wlTl mi
Philadelphia's Councllmanlc committee this week or next Week.
v
KNOX AND WALLING PILE, NOMINATION PAPERS
HARRISBURG, P:i April 1L'. Nom,lna,tlnp pqpers wero filed today by Phil
ander. C. Knox as u candlchte.for United States Senator on the Republican ticket.
Justice Emory A. Wnlllnir filed papers for nomination as candldato for the Stats
Supremo Court. , .
SUIT FOR $925,000 MID VALE ' SALE COMMISSION
Suit to obtuln a commission of $9,25,000 for the pale of the Coatesvillo Rolling
Mills and steel plant of Worth "Brothers to tho MIdvalo Steel and Ordnance
Company was brought this afternoon by Edward B. Smith & Co., okJthls city,
ugalnst William P. Worth and .T. Sharpless Worth, before Judge Flnlotter In
Court of Common Pleas No. 4 Tho salo of th,o properties was consummated In,
October, 1915, and tho price. It is said, was S18.500.Q00.
FORMER GOVERNOR PENNYPACKER GOES TO HOSPITAL;
Former Governor Samuel V. Ponnypacker Is a. patient in the Pennsylvania
Hospital suffering- from a general breakdown. Hq Is be(,ng jittejidedby his physi
cian, Dr. James Tyson, 1506 Spruce street." Doctor'Tyson salt today tho former
'Governor's condition Is not serious. . f T , t ?
. . FIVE MINISTERS NrOWAOUT iQFiGREEKCABINET
ATHENS-(via Romo), April' 12;- In ad3ltlon to M1. Dragoumls four other
Cablnqt". Ministers havo resl'gnpij. 'hejr .successors are not -tq bo members of
Parliament, but are to be appointed by tho King aaja. makeshift, with the object
of averting a ministerial crisis,-which-wpuId-make.M.-Venlzelos'. return to power
Inevitable. ' .. " , . , .
150,000 DEATHS FROM STARVATION IN ALBANIA
PARIS, April 12. William Howard, of New Yofk, secretary of the Albanian
Relief Commission, who has just left Paris on his way to the United States from
Albania, said that 160,000 hud died of starvation In Albatjla In. tho last 18 monthi
ard that 500,000 more were likely to" diq .before .normal conditions were restorjd. '
The famine Is due to crop failure, 'he! said. .Typhus threatens to become an
epidemic.
CRISIS IN SWEDISH CABINET AVERTED
STOCKHOLM, April 13. The threatened Cabinet crisis over the yp.r trad?
bill has been averted by an ugreement which was accepted by nil tho pj-ties. after
a consultation with tha Cabinet. The firm attitude of the Liberate ap.d Socialists
compelled tho Government considerably to modify the bill, which will be read,
tomorrow. The original bill sought to -give the Government ar"oJtrary rights
beyond parliamentary control regarding all arrangements for foelgn trade and
the transit of foreign goods through Sweden, ' ' '
' GERMAN "WAR BABY" PAYS SO PEP CENT.
BERLIN, April 12, The German Arms and Munitions fejhipany. one of th
leading "war babies;" has declared a dividend of 30.jer cut,, aa against 20- per
cent, last year. The Increase was declared despite the. nev war-profits legislation.
The company manufactures smalt arms and cartridges.
EIGHT AERO BATTLES FOUGHT OVPR BRITISH LINES
LONDON. April 12. "Grenade fighting In the crters east of St. Elol has con.
'turned with varying fortune," says the
"We hold three craters, but pot the other two. During eight air flights our ma
chines drove down one of the enemy without sfferlng any loss but one of our
aeroplanes was brought down by gunfire"
. , J.
SWISS SOON WILL GET GERMAN HOWITZERS
BERLIN, April 12. An Instalment of s centimetre 6-Inch howltzera ordered
In, Germany will soon arrive In Switzerland, according to the Zurich Poat, ays
the Overseas Agency. The newspaper, cammants on the fast that German indui
try not only is able to meet the enormbus wants of the German army, but alsa
to supply neutrals.'"
JL
BIGGEST SUBMARINE; TURNED OVER IX) U. S,
BOSTON, April J2. The laryest 'submarine in the United States navy, tht
IM, the first of the beries of syen of that type, has been turned over to h
commander of the Charleston A'avy Yard. The vesael Is 170 feet over nil.
.Instead of the usual rounded tfbw of previous models, has an ordinary 8hlp'1w
which la expected to add materially to
tOndO tubes. She Will be "CmnellMl hw
Mr JTrenctj, MessrlJ. French, GrlsOgrn,.
I- -- T! - 1 . - . 1
meet
2222522532,
$. .''iJt
British orHcal statement Issued last nlght
her speed. Her equipment tnclud lout
nll.Vmrntnir .n.Inu Tlio Bl th.r YkhIA
(
$ Cemtuiued ea P,. oor. Cluou. Tw, the" I"1 ty9 wlU be r?- to dHvf S Jul 1.
Oilier JUt sad iuuod Ait ea lo 17
is now yiiriiiyiKu, -(
consumed wim n- ins joaa u fiv.uvv.
