t
ALBUQUERQUE MORNING J OUKNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
I II IKTY-HKVENTH YEAH.
VOL. I-
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, VV E D N ESD A Y,"'A PRTl 12, 1916,'
STO RY OF tuft's
DEATH CREDITED
BY MIR
im WEATHER
Leather ixhifcast.
Denver. April 11. New .Mexico:
Wednesday fair in south, rain in north
portion ; colder east portion. Thurs
day fair; colder east portion.
at
OTHERS DOUBT
Favorite Ruse of Bandit Chief
in Past Has Been to Have
Himself Reported Wounded
or Dead,
PERSHING TOO BUSY
TO SEND IN REPORT
Columbus No Longer Greatly
Alarmed Over Possibility
That American Communica
tions May Be Cut,
LOCAL WEATIIEU RETORT.
For twenty-four hours, ending
o p. m. yesterday.
Maximum temperature, TO degrees:
minimum, 39 degrees; range, 37 de
grees: temperature at C p. m.. 01 de
grees; west wbjd: partly cloudy.
CITY HAX'K CI.KARIXGS.
Yesterday
$.'5,955.16.
to saber drills in cavalry stations.
The sump truck train brought two
machine guns ami seventy-five rifles
which were captured from the Villa
command n the Guerrero engage
ment. The machine guns were of h
modern model and had heen well
cared for. The rifles, however, were
of assorted sizes and shapes and ap
parently hud had little care.
Plana are being 'made to place the
weapons on exhibition in the center
of the military camp.
PAN-AMERICAN CONGRESS
FAVORS CLOSER UNION
tar MORNINO JOURNAL RMCIAL LtARiO WIRR)
Uucnos Ayres. April 10. The Pan-
Amcxlean congress, which has been
Uit'cfisslng legislation bearing on trade
and commerce, has adopted the fol
lowing conclusions: First, relative to
uniformity of regulations governing
commercial travelers; second, favor
ing thp construction of a Pnn-Ameri-ean
railway connecting nil the repub
lics and with other international rail-
GOOD PROGRESS
IS IDE TOWARD
SOLVING A MOST
IRY MORNING JOURNAL tMCIAL LfAttO W,Rl
Columbus, X. M., April 11. The
leport that Francisco Villa Is dead
of blood poisoning resulting from tho
wi-tind he is supposed to have re
ceived in the fight, with Carranelsta!
at Guerrero, was the chief topic of
Ulscusfcini) in Columbus tonight. There
was milch speculation as to whether
the -fox of the Sierras" had not him
self spread the report In an effort
to throw his pursuers off his trail
Natives Ifc'ltove Story.
Lieutenants 11. A. Pargue and K.
S Gorrell, who brought the report to
Columbus after a 330-inile flight from
San Antonio, a short distance above
Hatevo, said that the natives of
sunt her n Chihuahua placed great
faith In It. Students here of Mexican
warfare, H"d particularly of Villa tac
tics, recalled, however, that, times
without number in previous cam
paigns (he bandit leader has had him
unif mirt,i woundcil in order to
mislead his enmle These pointed Guatemala have aroused public feel
DIFFICULT TASK
Supplies for Pershing's Forces
Are Being Forwarded . to
Private Firms Over Mex
ican Roads,
REPORT OF VILLA'S
DEATH NOT CREDITED
American Soldiers Are Getting
Pay in Mexican Silver;
Little Information at War
Department, i
Dally by Carrier or Mail, 60a
Month. (Single Copies, ft
out that there is a strong possibility
Hint Villa is not wounded, despite the
persistent reports to the contrary.
This possibility Is recognized by the
military authorities as it is supported
by the assertion of the air scouts
Hint they had been told that Villa,
In his flight, made on a Jolting litter,
carried on the shoulders of chosen
followers, refused medical assistance
mid stilt f"f bandages, which he
bound to bis hotly himself.
Pershing Too Busy trt Keixirl.
That General 3. J. Pershing, expe
ditionary commander, who today was
reported to b .rmovimf hi, haad--
martens 1 Sutevo, and the advanced
detachments of ,A murium troops
were still "too busy to report," was
indicated in the lack of dispatches
from the front.
Kxeitcnient in Coltiniiuis us me,
result of rumors current yesterday j
that the town and the American line j
of communication might be attacked!
bad almost completely abated tonight,
the citizens apparently are feeling In- j
Teased confidence in t heir safety.
To allay fears further Ma.l. W. It
Sum pie, commandant of the expedi
tionary base,, directed that the heavy
guard and outposts maintained last
night be continued-
Communication ;nar,lctl.
Everv precaution also was being
taken along the motor supply route
between Columbus and Casus Grandes
because of persistent reports that rov
ing bands of .Mexicans have been col
lecting near It, apparently for tiie
purpose of attacking a motor train.
Ill-Ivors of a train leaving here to
day foe the front were instructed to j
be particularly careful to prevent!
straggling. Lieut. Inues P. Swift,
commander, ordered that the space
between trucks should not le greater
than twenty yards and that when
one truck 'stopped the entire train
must, halt.
Tlie mayor of Columbus today Is
sued a proclamation thanking Maior
Simple for steps taken to protect the
town from attack-
Sabers Are Discarded.
The cavalrymen in the field have
found sabers useless encumbrances
in --the type of warfare being waged
against Villa, and os a result tho
troops are sending these weapons to
Hi, base, Eleven hundred sabers ar
rived from the Eleventh eavalry to
day. .Military men here point out
that the discovery made by the troops
In the field Is Important since here
tofore much attention has been puid
GUATEMALA ABUSES
MEXICAN
IBV MORNtNO JOURNAL RRKCIAL LBAttD Wlftl
Quereturo, Mexico, April 11. Ke
ports of til treatment of Mexicans
hut If not d uctal Funston will make
leprostlitntlons to Iho war depart
ment explaining the necessity for
strengthening the punitive expedition
at the first call from General rer
un in g.
Headquarters officials were frank
In their expressions of amazement
that tleiieral Pershing hud gone us
far as lie has Willi the forces he has.
unil almost hourly have expected
word from him that ho dare not send
further Into ..Mexico ;it. cavalry col
umns now about Pnrral. 4H ' miles
south of the border, unless more
men for the extension of the line of
communication are provided.
In the absence of any news from an
official source. Indicating Villas
death, the routine work Incidental to
the conduct of the punitive expedition
111 Mexico was continued at denair-
niental hcad'iuarteis.
Although heiichiuurlcrs official-,
have not abandoned their hope that
Carrania. will grant the use of the
railroad front Juitrca to Chihuahua to
the Americans, most of them agree
that by Hie end of the week, lit the
latest, arrangements would have to
be made for sending troops to Gen
eral Pershing or to establish a new
huse and a new line of oommunh fi
tions that would be shorter than that
maintained between Columbus and
the front-
If It is decided to send in more
Iroops, officers at Fort Sam Houston
said It would be necessary, or at least
ndvlf-ablc, to bring other troops to
stations along Hie international bor
der before sending Into Mexico any
of those already in Texas.
General IVrshmg now has some
thing less than U'.uon men and h1oii;:
the border are something more, thai!
IS. 000. General Funston does no; I
consider It wie to remove ai.v of I
those now on duty along the border ,
unless tlielr plaits ere taken bv oth-i
ers. There are onlv about 4.00U nth-I
soldiers In the (era aval la hie, it is said, but If It Is i
w ere reoorded in to- .Voided to reinforce iiene,..! !,.,-.
da s official reports from Mexico j hing's armv, it Is believed probable i
and the border. ,hat ,icm.ra Funston will ask fori
Rumors from several sources that ; militia organizations to replace those!
Villa had died of blood poisoning und , n will ,MIU- across the border.
prtss dispatches from Queretaro tell- .-,,w from the region hovond Sa-!
lug of an announcement by the do (PVO vas Peking lodav. Lieutenants I
facto government's war department I Worrell nll() ii-, ,.,, ,u.,-jVed ,V ero-1
Hiat It had reason to believe the ban-! plane from a point ,!:io miles in Mex -(
dlt chief had been killed in action, j ,-o to Columbus, X. M, making ihej
were the occasion of much discus-1 dl.st.i nee In four hours,
sion here. In some quartet there; Vwm theme it was learned that!
"" i.. i irwu in,, ii- , , jener.ii rersntiie, wno is on his way I
KloIUlN I O! ',01'K ""'-they were without official j south from Cusihuiriuhic. was ex t-j
j confirmation and both army officers; 0( to ,llrive tonight at Satevo, forty '
ami state department oillcl.Ms sug- iniha soiilli of Chihuahua.
gcsicii tnnt tney pronaUly hint been
; " j put out by Villa's friends us a ruse.
CARRANZA
MEN
CLAIM TO BELIEVE
VILLA
DEAD
;E
OP
S00
rr mornina journal (Mcial L'AHD wirii
Washington, April 1 1 Marked
progress toward solving the problem
of supplying tJeneral Pershing's col-
linilla u,1 Fiit-tliut. M l, ..r
... V . . . Xi. . eration by Carran?,a
V Y 1 , V. V. i A X T Pursuit of Villa
i.uiii'nMt:.i, i ITU ih iijfi vi tunn n.tii ,1,1-
vocating ownership of the radiograph
stations.
The congress also adopted a motion
moved by Secretary of the Treasury
McAdoo, recommending Mte obliga
tory teaching of English, Spanish and
Portuguese. The Argentine delegate,
Senor Aldao, declared that French
was already taught in all the schools.
Americans Say if Bandit Chief
Is Still Alive He Is Far Into
Durango State and Beyond
Pursuit,
PERSHING MUST HAVE
RAILROADS OR RETURN
Officer Declares There Is No
Possibility of Continuing
Campaign in Present Con
dition of Expedition, I
Bitler Struggle
for Verdun Is
Still Proceeding
(RY MCIRNINR JOURNAL RPlCIAL LRAI1Q WIRI)
Parts, April II (11:1,1 p. m.).
There was a cessation of the tlcrman
Infantry assaults to tho west nf tin
Mens,, today although (he bombard
ment of the French lines between ,c
Molt Homme and CnmloieK contin
ued, according to the official com
munication Issued by the war officii
tonight. A powerful attack, however,
was delivered ngalnst the French
trenches bclween Iouamont mid
Vaux, east of the Mi-use. The Her
mans at this point succeeded In gain
ing a fool hold In sonic of the ad
vanced (rein -lies, but were driven out
by a counter attack.
CROWN
PIC
E
IS
ing in Mexico and the newspapers call
n poii the Carratraa. government to
take action to protect .Mexican citi
zens abroad.
El Pueblo, the official organ of the
government, says:
"Estrada Cabrera (president of
Guatemala) is the sworn enemy of
the constitution. jliat government of
! Mexico. Ife worked against the ln-
I terests of Mexico at the Niagara con
j fere nee and is now imprisoning hikI
I beating our citizens in his realm, in
ways as birbarous as those employed
during the Inquisition, for no greater
crime than being followers of the
constitutionalist .movement. H has
bought the yellow press of America
In order to defame and insult our
country. We call upon our authori
ties to take this matter in hand." .
THE PRESIDENT
ENDORSED FULLY
BY DEMOCRACY
Location I iiknown.
j At. the state and war departments
tonight it was admitted that. Villa's
I exact location was not known and
that absolutely no news regarding:
General Pershing' operations had I
been received for several days. The !
last state department report regard
ing Villa's whereabouts was that lie
was near Parral and headed south.
Officials expressed great satisfac
tion over the results accomplished by
use of the Mexican railway In for
warding supplies through to General
Pershing. Two trainloads were re
ported to have left ,luar,-. recently-
Major General Scott
said tile transportation
much Improved and that the troops
now apparently were being supplied
j abundantly.
j General Funston telegraphed that
ja "satisfactory conference" had been
: held by General Pershing with Gen
I eral Herrera and another with Gen
i eral Gutierrez.
j Asks for Mexican Silver.
The quartermaster general received
the following dispatch dated April
SIX HANS IN
:mw no
WWRaWIIIWWW I II 11 u
iinui nniPfinrnp
! imv rfiiaui'o,
i !
Villi IN IIIM'NG
( IHIH AIM MI.I!Hs
Melo lly. April II. Fritu
t'lst it ilia lias b it I In- inalil
ImhIv ol' Ids command and Is did
i g, alino-t unattended. In Hit'
M.cmiN ' Chihuahua, acturd
ing to hifoi illation given out at
the war clepal Iment today.
'I ho last of hi" leli'ciilluu
force passed through Ibc town
i f Cii-iliiitritK'l k', Chihuahua.
i-lciih. in I bell- flight lovtiirtt
the mountain- They were
i Inst I) pur-mil bv loi'cc of the
dc I'llCll) govcrniitciii. ttlio iiilM
In cap! ore (he hand and locale
I hell' leader.
Inr Ibis purpose, Min I'cin
fiiri cinciits Inn to liccn orilcrcl o
(be si by War linllcr (line-
gon.
The (loops, Including cauiliy
and liil'lnirv. will close in oil four '
sides in Hie region where Ilia Is
said In b,- lildinu'.
The war tlcparlinciit expresses
Kit'nl ht p s of Hie curly capture
of the bandit chief.
the Konora town epposite liouglas
Mnnibiy afteinonii while he w.w there
for a short time to arruuue for piovl
sions and supplies for his column.
Gome. m iiiocd as telling them Hint
he would slart W'-dnesday morning
from his present 1 ase at Colunla Jn
rclos. slxly-fle null s MUilheast of
Agua Prlcl.i.
Tlie ionic of lue Gomez column
will be throuuh Pnlpllo puss, the same
road followed by VIMa's lit it I t iiimv
when It Invaded Solium last lletobel1.
lonie Is limited as a-'iyinir that he
was originally liihtructed by Gen. P.
Kilns Calles, nilijtar governor of So
nora and coiiiinandcr-lii-i hicf of tile
forces stationed in that state, to guard
the mountain pnses and prevent the
entrance of Villa into Sonera.
I "I have become convinced that Villa
,wlll not attempt to enter Smiora and
1 nin lining to Chihuahua to help cap
ture him." General Gome, said.
The new of the proposed troop
I movement lm caused uneasiness here.
!ln view of the non-comiiiitlal attitude
'of Vt nustlaiio Carrailza, head of the
..Mexican de facto government and Ills
Mmplied refusal to allow (he use of
'the railroads in Chihuahua by Hi--jt'nited
SI a I en troops, (lie movement of
this bo,l of cavalrv Is eousiilcred siK-1
FURIOUSLV
assailing me
FRENCH LINES
Column After Column of Ger
man Soldiers, Is Hurled
Against Defenses, Only to
Be Repulsed,
SLIGHT NET GAINS
MADE AT ONE POINT
Struggle Still Rages Arouncf
Dead Man's Iliil; Russians
Aie Progressing
Minor,
in Asia
TRY MtfNNiNR JOURNAL Rf VAL LiARRO tVIRRI
The armies of the tleiiiuin crown
prince around Verdun are still vigor
ously on the offensive against th
French.
Having delivered an attack fdonfr
the line from l,o Mot! Homme to Cu
mieres which netted them a few small
Portions of the Freiu h trenchru ou
tho east of l.e Mort Homme, tha tier
man commanders rested their Infan
try here: but In the region of loiinu-uiont-Vaux,
northeast of Verdun,
threw their men in large number
e
chief of staff., Wounded Men Left at El Valle;::;;::crnt;..iaebr
h,rtX'7r:;::i by Villa; Mmll Attack, but I ':" l?'"?-, , ,,
by
Didn't Know It Was Ameri
can Town, They Assert,
1RV MOANINU JOURNAL 'TII- 1ID WIRI
Kl Paso, Texas, April 11. - The pur
suit of Villa v, ill proba'dy be brought
to a definite conclusion within forty-
iglit hours, according to information
ait
sis
nlfleurit in well-informed circles. "Kalnst Hi., I'rench trenches,
.These troopn will enter chihuahua at 1 "'le Hoy met with success, but
u x i t, t where (he American line of! "My for n short period of time, for
Icoinmuiiiciilioii will. Hi,, advalue of!1'1,, French In u coliuti r-attncU drove
!ihi punitho xpeilltlon, could be sev-l,n hivmleis (roni advanced sections
Jercl tii-lly. it is pointed out. nf trenches they had taptured and in
j An additional cause for npprehen-; the operations took about I 0U Cu rmiiil
slon Is found lu the now Well estah- prisoners.
Mbdied fact that a considerable number j Intense Artillery Hie.
iof cannon and al 1-asl four thousand' While Hie 1 loiiaiiiuont-Vaux attack
(infantry are .stationed In the pavlspe ' Wl's In piogrcss. (he Germiuis had not.
.'rlvcr district of Sonora, and could be J overlooked the line between l.e Mort
! rapidly mobilized m Chihuahua j 1 '"""ue and Ciiinleres, and covered
,tliroiigb Pulplto and I'arietas passes, -the enllie region with Intense nrtll
! The Chine,, residents of the birirer 'cry fire, prolmbly preparing for an
icltlcs of Sonora are to be forced by tbejolher attack by Infantry.
'state government to reside In fpecialj Along the remainder of the front III
(districts, the limits of which will iuj Franco and Hi latum there were only
established by decree. Consul 1 vr., G.I ai't lllery bombardinents. In one of
11. c levler s.ild today. The Chinese wili;'hese north of the Alsne the French
innt lie allowed to , ondi.'ct business oriK'"i caused sicl'lous looses to a strong
I reside outside these specified districts i1 lerinan column on the march.
and will prohahly lie forced to dispose n the Itussilin IhCntCr an atlernlU
of any property holdings outside iif'hy Hie Germans Ui lake the offensive
the limits of "Chinatown" in each eMy. iln the region of tin, Jkskull bridgehead
from General Funston' quartermas
ter at Fort Sam Houston:
"Troops being paid in
I R Y MORNIN4 JOURNAL SPECIAL LKASAO MMRC
Columbus. N. M., April 11. Six
wounded Mexicans, members of Villa's
band, which attacked Columbus a
month ago, were brought to Columbus
i luiiiKHl. i lie iiieii, me insi jMisoueis
the messages rorciicd staled that
jthe report Hint Villa was dead was
i current tin ghout southern Chihua-
I liua and northern Diiritugo and, while
lit was still far from confirmed, It
iwus expected that definite news
would be received within the next
itw'o days
I Two Things Possible.
i Then- are only two possibilities
I which are acc epted here as true In
the present situation: either Pain ho
Villa Is den,) and his pursuit Is unto-
Mr. l.elevler said.
The Chinese of Hermosillo, Cuay
mas. XogalcM and Caniini'.'L will be Hye
ones chiefly uffected by the decree,
which Is expected to be Issued within
the next few weeks.
NEGRO TROOPERS
C
gold and silver shipped from New
Orleans, San Antonio und Kl Paso to
Columbus. Pershing asks for some
funds In Mexican uilver for disburse-
j nients w here American money can
! not be successfully used,
j "From the turt. practieully nil
Convention ' c'f,"ssi's ' 'lU'iftTmaslers' supplies
, na e oecii itvaiiaoiM iiir iui ,,,uimh
jyffrom Columbus.
i " I nwl ,-iieted iiDiirtcrninsterH lo tiro-
Is Significantly Silent as toicre kuppiick without nmu, nu mat-
Anicrieiin 'arriving at the border since Hie raid, i niuticallv ended or he is far to Hit
south lu central luiraugo. ir tlie
latter Is true, army officers say that
the entire plan of campaign of Gen
eral Pershing must he completely re
organized or abandoned ultogel her.
were brought here from l.l aiie lu
! motor trucks and under a heavy
guard, officers accompanying the
train aid they had I en c.ipluied in
the town where they had been a bun-
Oklahoma State
Praises Senator Owen
0 NT C
was stopped . by the . Husehiiis. Thrt
big guns of both sides have ht" ii busy
ai VMiloim poiit elsewhere along thy,
fronl.V
Petiogrud reports that tlie liiiiUins
are loiiUniilng to gain ground against
I the lurks In the region of Krxerum.
I I'liofficl.il udvler me to (he effect
that the Turks have regrouped their
forces and now are resisting stub
bornly the three PusaiIuo iniiitl Hm-M
ltd advance Into their territory.
The Auslilnn.H between the Adigo
and Sugana valley have brought Inl.n
jibe ciimpalgn artillery which Is de
scribed by llonie as new unil very
powerful. The Italian kiiiis. how-
El ever, hiu replied effecllvcly lo their
fire. No Infantry atlacks are repott
jed In this theater of the -war.
Germany and Itumanla have in-
Gore.
MORNINU JOURNAL '1CHI LIARID WIRI
Oklahoma City, April 11. Without
roll call and without a contest that
j was not settled outside the hall, Okla-
,11 convention nere
doned by Villa. In his flight, when the one officer, who has had an active
'American column reached there aev-ipart In the direction of the plans of
jefftl weeks ago. jibe expeditionary force, summed up
I According to reports obtained by j the situation In lhlswnv:
j officers at the field hospital in Kl ; If lillit Is Head Chase i:mls.
' I-..H. ...I. .. ,1.... i i.... I i "tr I'.,,.. l.. (I...,-,, lu .... on.
ivcifie, wieie iiey ,iac oecu ut-aieu; u oe,. ,r ,,,, iio-,,- in,
'until they were aide to travel, the i to be said except to issue an order,
linen were wounded in the .-ortle mude for our soldiers to come back to the
ini-rosu 111.. Inlerreitlmwl line l.e e.-i V: I - I I ' II 1 1 ell Stiltl-S IIS SPecdUv UN possible.
reports coming in tney evidently ear-'.,., ,f.r Mnt tvet T,.miri.,s lm. II. he is not dead, there Is very little!
ried out instructions. mediately following the raid here ! reason to doubt that he Is by (his
"Major Elliott (quartermaster ftt They were carried by Villa until he I time well Into Ihe state of Durango.j
El Paso) reported yesterday succeed-. realized that he must make all possl-jH is simply ridiculous to suppose Hull j
od in getting fifleen cars hay through j (,e haste if he was lo have a chance ;mlr troops can keep, on going soul hi
to Oasaa Grandes. shinned over Mex-ii, uc,.i.., ti... ,-,.i,.i Vi,w-rie.-,n our. i Indefinitely with no railroads buck of!
Uan Northwestern railway by brok- ault.
ers. Kxnect. to rret eighteen cars hay, ! on,. of Hie men is in
luj cura onla nnrt some r.-itlnns ,-nnihi !., urmu tl,i,,,,is h,.,,. mv I other expedition Iroin some
tun iinruer which win enuom iiiem to
Three Mexicans Killed; Brush'
Occurs About Forty Miles;
North of Guerrero; One Am-!
crican Horse Shot, I
tered Into a compact for tin- free ex
portation from one country to the oth
er of home products for (heir own
needs. War material is excepted from
the agreement.
Greece, according (o a Tcml-of f Icial
dispatch from lierlln, has refused a
request of the entente allies to he pre
mllted lo I ring troops from Corfu to
Halouikl through Greek territory, as
sert Inn that cholera irevujla at Corfu.
homa democrats
todav elected delegated to the coming two cars oats nnrl some rations . condition, army suig'ons
democratic natioiiul convention in-1 through today in same manner. . lonly Iwo of them are badly
strncted to vote for the renomlnation "Very hard lo get correct lnl'orma-! one being shot through tli
as president of Woodrow Wilson; ; (ion from the front, but troops are, the other through the Jaw
chose Thomas I- Wade of Marlow, pyrcha.slng supplies of all kinds , icanw were taken immediately to the
as national committeeman, named i w herever obtainable. , i cantonment hospital here, where,
them. The,' will either have to halt
i dangerous '"' arrange for the dispatch of an- F-H
lure i-.ay. M"n' r cxpeuuion irom some pniui o"A,ni
IRy MONNIN4 JOURNAL FACIA, LAAAKU Wl
I'dshing H Camp .it Hie Front. In I
Mexico, April (bj Aeni and Motor
Com lei- to Columbus, N. M., April ll. i
iMllhcnltc details of the light of
1 beiween Col. W. C. Ilrown'a
It I SS TM KM OV
II I Mil, MH Itti nXTIXI"H.
wounded,
legs and
TIP! Mex- I
cut lu behind Villa. I am not a i ' '
proldict but the nio.-.i casual observer j ''"-'"as 'uliiutcs,
should see thai the existing condl- Major IJrown'.
ban, I of Vllllslas at
arrived here toilny.
i troops Mere colored
The Day in Congress
Oklahoma' quota of presidential
electors, and adopted a platform sup
porting without reserve the national
and state administrations.
In addition to commanding Pres
ident Wilson's international, Mexican
and Pan-American policies, the con
vention endorsed I'nited States Sen
ntor Kobert U Owen for any office
in the gift of the nation, advocated
the khlp purchase, rural credits, non
tiartlsui, tariff commission, and Phil
ippine Independence bills, and urged
action looking to tho safeguarding of
American citizens rights under Inter
national law and looking to the pre
vention of floods in the Missouri and
Mississippi valleys.
K.W'SAS DF.MOCH TS
SKTTIaK Dl ITF.KJ Alios
"War field bread is being baked , while Copt. IJicey P.. McAfee was al
and forwarded to troops wherever i lending them, word w as received of
possible to get transportation. I the death of Mrs. McAfee at Fort lit-j
"Candv and tobacco being sent to, ley, Kan. j
front, in large quantities." j The Mexicans admitted thai they j
The war department, had official ; participated in the raid upon Colon, - !
Information that train service, be-j ljul explained thai at the tim
tween Juarez and Casas Grandes huJlthe.v started on the foray they did not,
been oreatlv inri.roved and the run-1 undorsiand il wns an American town
ning time reduced to twenty-four ' they
hours, indicating repairs to bridge
and roadbed.
i cava Iryinen of Ten Hi
I w here he caught Hie
llbolll
! being
The plain
bandits was i
forty miles north of Guerrero,
one of seveinl r,mnll detach-
SiFAATIi
Met at 11 a. m.
Hesumed debate t,n free sugar re
peal resolution.
Sisal Investigation continued in
committee:
"ou.se immigration bill favorattj Hutchinson. Kan.. April 11. Afler
t ported by immigration committee-1,, Htri,L'.rie th.it h.sipd until nightfall
Adopted resolution by Senator ,(he democrat- of Kansas, in heir statu
Ken yon fiskiiiir attorney general for j convention here today, settled all dif
'eport on justice department's Inves-1 f,,renees and elected u national com
tlgaclon of Standard (.ill company's ' niltteeman, four dclegates-at-lurge to
aitivities since It was ordered dis-jti,e national convention of the party
solved, icirticularlv resrulutitisr Kaso-mt St binii unit airreed on resolniions ; tho
iwlnch expressed the sentiment of a
, IttftJOI ic.y OI ine Ui-IPKHWC pirni-ici.
to attach and thai until
they were engaged in the buttle here
did they realize they hud crossed the
international line. So far as could be
b-urned tonight none ,,f the prisoners
is of rank and none of them pro
fessed any knowledge of the- w hereu-j f.,n from his horse, following his be
hoofs of Villa. i lug Wounded hy a bullet. I'll e said
When they were put aboard Incline lee was in had shape, swollen and,
truck trwin, one of them said he lie-i gangrcuous." I
II,..-. ..I !....- I,-...-.. .... ... 1... I I, II. . V I
tremendous difficulties.' " J," . l, " . 7, , V, ' '..V'"'". ".,..
,r,,ui. to " lit.,' a 1 , t 1 1 i i j.i i. l 1 1 in it im ; ii'.-nrnu i,i ,;, 1 c 1 1 jc c, 1 i.in 1 1 i
line prices.
Rejected
With the increased use of the rail
ways and additional motor efliiip
ment for the line of communication,
officials said no consideration was ho.
ing given to transferring the supply
base from Columbus to OJinnga.
Ariov officers said such a change
would involve
in transferring the guard ulonr the
line.
That General Pershing's line of
communication now is at least 3."iU
miles long is indicated by news of
Hie cross-country flight today of avi
ators Uargue ami icorreii to i. oiiini-, of the prison, rs upon
has. General Funston, In reporting ; ni,,j ,.,. received at
fjight, the longest sustained trip .quarters tonight.
tioiis arc impossible of continuance.
HclievcA Mnry True,
The report of VIIIii'k death was ac
cepted as highly probable by General
. . .' , 'u Z ' Y 11 ,, i'o''iilM whic h bus utlempte
j . together by hilling in the
! ...,'7" i i i,,,i 'during tlie Anicrlcau sear,
" r here is on v one doctor in Hie i . .. .
leopintrv where Villa now is."' said j 'mcdKite legicoi.
Mieneral TS.-rlaul. "and If blood pols-! 'V '" "J-r Hrown s
oning has se, In Villa s woiindcl leg. " "'""' 11 ''' l""'' t"wr'1
ins mv iiilormaiion has it, Ibis doctor!'': I'"''' nmunlams. suddenly were
jean do nothing eve,, If he has al1"''''1 "I""1 behind r-cks oli (ho
chance, since h- l-j led onlv Ignorant ! in side, where the Mlhstiis
i i, nil inciiio.-l.-el In lot olioUS i 1 1 -l 01 " -II en oilllllK ,11,11 IUI1CU
drunkard. Witnesses who .aw Villa
I told in e Ills leg was shuttered by ,i
1'eiroKiacl, April 11 fla London.
S:4!l p. in.). The fighting north anil
south of luinsk Is being waged fierce
ly, but still without declslvu advan
tage to either Hide, .Military opinion
hero is inclined to view the situation
jwlththe gi'iatest complacency, alnco
I the main ol Jeet of Hussla's surprise
1 1, Hack on Field Marshal Von Hinden-
i tliv, islon w Idle the Gi
on crdun was in progic
hour. The Aiiiei'icuns oivlcied, mu
force chlil'gillg the rocks, dcsplle tin.
'excellent cover they afforded, while
jiiiiolher went around Ihroiigli a pass
In flank the bandits in case they rc
.trealccl. ( Pile Ano rli an horse was
lsh.it fi'im under his rider aa the rocks
wen- charged. I he VillicliiM mounted
the puriiose of their being Inker, : not niccic than fifiv men wlili him.
north, officers of (he (rain were in j The Vllllsta hand which his iroops
strncted to show" Heir prisoners al i encountered In the .Madera section
each of Hie Mexican tow ns through ! esl rday consisted c.r tu eiitv-throe
w hich Ihej passed. Iinenilieis. of w hom I'ourti c n w , r,
No instructions as to the disposition i taken prisoners. Tile Htirvhni-s, ear-
itictr r
to
Ihree
li,B til
Of
IIS I
military
Senator Weeks' amend
ment to sugar bill to impose higher
lunft lin ,.itri,8 fniitH.
Passed, id to 32. senate substitute
for hous
'ending
1S20.
Adjourned
Wednesday.
sugar repeal resolution, ex-: made in IS 12
The resolutions minuted praised,
President Wilson an I lauded the work
of the party In fulfilling tht pledges;
present sugar
0 p,
at
tariff until
m. to noon
committees
work on national defense
on rivers und
Morsic.
Me' st 11 a. in.
N'aval and military
onilnued
measure.
Debate continued
narirs bill.
Passed. $4ii.inl,,.i)00 rivers and har
uers approp.rlatiim bill by 210 to 133.
General debate begun on agricul
tural Appropriation bill HggreKamiK
2,.ilJ,),0l.
Adjourned st n:2c) p. in- to noon
Wednesday,
Greetings were extended to former
Secretary of State Uryan as follows:
"We send greetings to that peerless
democrat. W. J. Hryon, and
the confident hope that be
again a delegate in the next
democratic convention.''
since the troops eniereu .Mexico, sain: ,
the awiutors brought no official dis- Tryjii r flPFR ATlVrQ
patches from General Pershing. I LA I ILL UI LliAIIVLO
It Is s.dd they started from neari
the extremis end of the present com
munication lines. I
GET BIG WAGE SCALE!
1 1 xstov fxpix'ix n i
Kir.lX'FOlM F, Pl.P.SillING ,
Siarvation in Albania.
Paris, April 11 (11:10 h.
William VVillard Howard, of
Voik. secretary of the Albanian re
lief -oniinittee, who left today for the
I'nited Slates, said that ISO.uiH! per
sons had died of starvation In Albania
during the last eighteen months and
that 500,0(1(1 were likely to die be
fore normal conditions in that coun
try were iticuuieiL
lr MOHNINR JOURNAL RRfcCAL LR WlRHl
Huston. April 11. Wage alliances
u'liieli ..ill i.nl fliu i. u,- ,,.v,lln on.
!......,: i.n.. ln ..n,. .1... C . V.....
i rillrn III lltlli. Ol lljl- IIHII5 in ,.rw
Sun Antonio, Texas. April It. ,'F.ngland and w York state on the
General Funston said todav that I blithest basij, in the history of the
r:nn..rl Pr-rshimr hud mud., no re-! Industry, were announced today.
! quest for additional troops, but his The American Woolen company.
I -a ,h.,i ,.i.,t -,.c r,.or.r,i.,l l.v ''? t " - operatives, i.ss'ied
m. I. I stil'T officers here as due to Ms re-
co ei y l ying tin if wounded
head-j hills.
"Villa'a forces cimis now of only
ja lucre handful," commented I'.ertanl,
i "who will have to tie hunted dow n
like ordinary rsi-aped criminals."
A I ' 1 1 he senilis hal e gom into
i from Cnluinbcis. il was learn
ed litre 1 1 1 i g. 1 1 1 . t.ed bv Pouches, the
caj-lor i f J.-roiiimn. titey Htart.'ci :
nil on top of motor trucks. 1'uch
and rod.- for- Ihe heieht
their nupiber being shot
lb-- Americans pursued.
Thiit baud of Villletas had one ma
chine gun. The. gun Itself was not
captured, but the mule which carried
peel Into (im, the weapon, ulih ils (Tappings, ivies
ll'iiuu hy he flanking force which
rounded the mountains. The Villistas
with fresh burses bad ton good a start
to be overtake--n by the iir. d horses of
the Ame-rlcnns.
e press
will Im
national
A pacbe
W 1,1- lie S
wnr,. sun goggles ii n '1 nrlstj
.(PltO
MI XK nv l ISV
- to i;n i i:u nun aim
I'loiighis. . AriK., April II. i.n. Ar-
notice nr an advance of ten per ,enl."uuo 'eoiiuz. commanding tne ,te tae-
n-u .. t .I' ., ,., .... u.i il. .. m t il,.. 1 1 1. v jc, 1 1, I I'. if,,... ... V ..u .... , I .
New (luttaie to e present a phase -of the it-j,ne (lff ahi.cd Merrimac mills an- -red on the S..nora-ChihUHh,ia bolder
nation that rniKht be corishlei id em-
hariasslng rather than tu nny confi
dence he has in his ability to conduct
the campaign against Villa much
longer with the forces at his com
mand. Additional troops may be sent to
him without him asking 1'jf them.
nounecil an advance to approximately
B.fiMi operatives. It Is understood
similar action will be taken this week
by other manufacturing interests.
Th mills, according to officials, have
been unusually prosperous during the
lust year, due largely to orders fur
the warring naUou.
for the- announced purpose of guard
ing (be mcnudain passes, is quoted by
Mexican friends lu Agua I'll- ta us
having told Hiem that he would en
ter Chihuahua thlx week at the head
of a cavalry detachment of itppioxl
toiilelv two thousand Gomex iiihiIc
rman uttaclc
sh, Is regard
I lo hang tuning noon unfilled,
moitnlaitis ' T1'1 necessity, of defending their
h 'if Ibis oiinsK poslMoiiH Is said lo have npser
tne cuicuiiiiions of ihe German starr.
who had counted on a period of quiet,
along the Itussilin front to enable!
I In-lit to transfer troops to engage lit
the campaign against the French. Th,
mo xpected pressure y the Kussbins.
which made eonsidrrahlu headway
against the German armies at Jacob?
Mailt, pntnvy and like Naroi'a, ac
cording to Ihe prevailing view hern,
not only forced Von H'indoiihurg in
use all his available forces, Includlerl
the reserves on this front, hut neces
slimed the brinKing up of fresh
troops destined for Verdun t,i pre-
vent the possibilit.v of being compelled
to abandon the whole Dvlnsk line.
The opieiallctUM of Hie Ku-sl:H) Ctiu
casian armies, now fighting their way
to TrebUoml, KixinJun an, Jtesopo
(aiiiia, have euilcr, d upon new
phase in which Tin kisri resistance no
longer Is a negligible factor- lly u
direful regrouping of their funis,
(he Turns now :,r- opposing the threw
main lines of tin' Ktissian advanco
with a solid organized resistance,
w hi. h gives w ay only after ni'Ht
ist n iebi'i n fighting.
OI'li'MPir CTADV' According to estimates bv Russian
OUlUIUL O I Uh I I officers, tlo- Turkish lorce haa at
bust been douolod by reinforcement
RIAL OlAAAtrS TO MnRNINa JOCRSAL IMOlll I'.U l' ,f U 11 ICllKC.l, UH' ft I .II, -
Portland, ure., April ! I . .-r-1 j part of which are concentrated near
Ihat the bride of .leis.-ph C. Howard. KlzlUjan, which, despite the imper
ii!,, an or, had committed mi'i-ide in lance of 'J'reblr.ond and th Persisn
Omaha yesterday a roused unusual hi- I opt rutioiis, is a region of the greutcsf.
PORTLAND INTERESTED
teres! here today lei'iiuse of a breach
of promise suit which was htoiicht
against ruin m Porilaiid two months
ago
Howard Was placing 111 a local inii
deyllle (healer when Mrs F.duh i(h
eisiioon brought sun for IMi dilO daiu
nges on the ground Hint be failed lo
keep, a promise to marry her How
ard left inwn without filing an nnsw.-r
to the suit. Mrs. Wlthermioon ch
illis statement to several poopk- in .'tallied judgment March, 2:' for $M33.
value tee the Turks, since it stands m
the way of the itiHitl Caucasian arm
ies, whose ultimate aim is to weep
west wind toward Constantinopl.
Iiidustrlal lxtail to tld mi. '
Peking, China, April 11. Lee
glnson Co. of Boston signed a
tract today for Se,at,t0i i
trial loan to the Chinese gover
and paid 1.06,n(itJ. Thti loan
tilactd at J, i pT -w:t.
t-
