:"*r-."'
a,'-'
I
%:i'"
Y,
If
'V
It
I
lVi'.
-:v
.''• 7' *.','
THIS PAPER issued in
Two Sections 8ection
two—Pages 1 to 8— Lo
cat news, stor es, corre
spondence anc
locals.
Denison
VOL.51
MONDAY'S PRI
NAKY COST $1500
First Presidential Primary Ever Held
in Crawford County a Failure—
Only Small Number Voted
CUMMINS RECEIVED 327 VOTES
For the Democrats Marsh Gets Big
Majority Over Dunn in the State
—Tabulation on Page Four.
The first presidential primary elec
tion was held in Iowa on Monday of
this week and as far as getting the
sentiment of a majority of the voters
of the state it was a" complete failure,
as only a small number of votes were
oast. Here in Crawford county voters
failed to take interest in the primary,
there being only in the neighborhood
of 700 votes cast.
Senator Oummins was the only man
whose name appeared on the fepubli
can ballot for candidate for president,
but notwithstanding this fact, the vot
ers wrote in the names of Hughes.
Kcot and Taft. Cummins received 327
votes in the county, while Wilson re
ceived 320. Justice Hughes polled 11
votes, with a few scattering votes for
Taft and Root. Only four progressive
ballots were cast in the courity, there
being two in Nishnabotny township
and two in West Side. This goes to
sliow that few Crawford county voters
are interested in the progressive cause
and nearly all have returned to the
ranks of the republican party.
In the scrap for control of the dem
ocratic organization the regulars were
winners, Marsh defeating Dunn by a
wide margin. Marsh represented the
democratic machine in the state and
it is claimed that hfc supporters had
also been elected delegates at large
to tho national convention. Marsh re
ceived in this county 250 votes, while
Dunn received but 149. Senator Cas
well supported Marsh and had print
ed instructions at every polling place
urging loyal democrats to vote for W.
W. Marsli for national committeeman
Robert Healy, of Ft. Dodge, and
Paul E. Stillman, of Jefferson, appear
to have won the nomination as district
delegates to the national convention
on the republican, ticket. John Ham
mill, of Britt, was the other candidate
who was defeated. In Crawford coun
ty Stillman- received 282 votes, Ham
tillll 170 and Healy 205.
Delegates to the republican and
democratic county conventions were
elected at the primary, but the list of
these delegates was not obtainable at
the auditor's office yesterday and will
be published in the Review next week.
County Auditor P. 3. Portz estimates
tho cost of holding the presiden­
,:
•MlflWlfal
=', '.'• v.. "V-. •'..., .• /.
tial preference primary in Crawford
county at $1,500. The expense of the
primary will average well above $1.50
for each ballot cast. It would seem
that some plan could be devised to
cut down the cost of these primaries
by doubling up instead of having two
primaries held .within three months of
each other.
Late State Returns.
Scattering Votes for other prominent
republicans than Senator Cummins
who alone was on the ballot for presi
dent, came in yesterday. Justice
Hughes continued to receive the larg
est share of these votes. In Woodbury
county he received 101 votes. Roose
velt ran second with Sherman, Fair
banks, Root and Ford receiving a few
votes here and there. The Iowa dele
gation, of course, will be instructed
for Senator Cummins.
Champ ClaTk, as far as is known,
received the only democratic votes for
president not cast for Wilson. Clark
received a score of votes in Davenport
and probably half a dozen elsewhere
in the state. The delegation will be
instructed for Wilson.
The vote was lighter even than ex
pected, the total republican vote prob
ably being about 50,000 and the demo
cratic vote standing a good chance of
reaching 40,000.
Marsh's Majority Large.
Wilbur W. Marsh's majority over
E. J. Dunn for democratic national
committeeman grew as the returns con
tinued to come in yesterday. With
818 precincts complete the vote stood
Marsh 8,629. Dunn 4,616. All of the
organization set for democratic dele
gates, E. T. Meredith, Maurice Con
nolly, J. .T. Hughes and George Stiv
ers, were elected by majorities ap
proximating that of Marsh.
With 781 precincts complete John
T. Adams has 9,923 votes to 6,806 for
John Olson, his opponent.
E. J. Burkett, of Nebraska, received
the indorsement of the republican vot
ers for vice president. The vote in
this contest with 683 precincts com
plete, ^tood Burkett 8,178, Webster
5,784. x,
Results in Crawford.
The Review is printing in this issue
a table showing the votes received by
the candidates where there was any
opposition.
The fire department was called out
Sunday about one o'clock to extin
guish a fire on the roof of the resi
dence just west of the Presbyterian
Manse. The flames were extinguish
ed without any difficulty arid the dam
age was slight.: It Is believed that a
defective flue was the cause. The
hose cart was badly damaged on the
run from the city hall to the scene of
the blaze. It was hitched onto an.au
tomobile. and going down Main street,
pastltlie opera house, it turned over,
breaking one of the big wheels und
damaging it otherwise.
__
Exquisite New Hats
Our millinery section is crowded with rich cre
ations of Easter hats. After an inspection and
comparison you will agree that you have seen
Denison's greatest display. Avery special of
fering of hats this week at $2.95, $3.95, $4.95.
LAST WEEK OF
DISTRICT COURT
Week Has Been Devoted to Damage
Case of Wright & Kinney vs Gold
heim and Renfro & Lewis.
CASE VIGOROUSLY PROSECUTED
Number of Supreme Court Cases in
Which Crawford Was Interested,
Decided During Week.
The district court is grinding away
on tho last week of the term and will
conclude on Saturday. It is probable
that the judge may return to hold a
session later on to dispose ot' some
cases which will go over the term.
The last week has been devoted to
the trial of the damage case of Wright
& Kinney vs Lawrence Goldheim and
Renfro & Lewis, growing out of the
collapse of the Wright &-Kinney build
ing some time last fall. This case has
attracted considerable attention in
view of the prominence of the parties
concerned in the action. The case is
handled, on the part of the plaintiffs
by Sims & Kuehnle and R. ShawVan
of this place, and the defense is made
by Tinley & Mitchell, of Council
Bluffs, and Conner & Powers, of Deni
son. The case is being vigorously
prosecuted and the parties are vigor
ously defended. It would not do for
a newspaper in mentioning the case
to express any opinion as to what the
final judgment should be in the case.
The probabilities are that the case
will be submitted to the jury by Thurs
day evening.
Last week Crawford county had a
good many cases decided in the su
preme court. We recall some of the
cases as follows: Lehfeldt vs Bach
mann, Sleeper case, the Cook will con
test case, the Dobals will contest, the
divorce case of Bill "vs Bill and the
Boys' Store vs The Standard Oil conv
pauy. Most of these cases were but
recently submitted and it is almost a
surprise that the action of the court
was taken so promptly :'nd indi
cates that the supreme court has its
business well in hand.
Plans are going forward forythe en
tertainment of tlie Mothers' club of
Whittier school, including the fathers
of the school pupils, which will be
held at. the Carnegie club room Thurs
day evening of this week. Addresses
by Prof. F. N. Olry, Supt. C. E.
Humphrey^ and Dr. J. J. Meehan will
be features of the entertainment, as
well as a program by the school chil
dren. The occasion will be a most
pleasant and profitable one and all of
the parents should plan to be present.
for
Special Offerings in Our Dry Goods Department This Week
Featuring summer wash goods, tub silks and remnants at great savings.
Egyptian Tissues. Lot is made up of 500 yards shown in stripes and chcclcs. Regular 25c value
priced for this weetc at 17e a yard.
1500 yards of 36-inch bleached muslin priced at 7c a yard.
31-inch Aurora dress gingham priced atTic a yard.
New face veiling received Monday of this week. 7 different patterns to select from. Priced at Mc,
49c and 59c.
Sale on Remnants for Saturday Only. Again we have gone through our stocks arid put on our rem
nant counter short lengths, drops and discards from all our stocks. We are offering the entire lot for
Saturday only at just one:half the regular price. About 200 pieces to select from.
.,
Denison, has plenty of good material
for a winning team this year, but it is
to be regretted that arrangements
could not be made for week day games.
It is true tiiat the last ball team did
not receive ample support on the part
of the Denison people, but it is prob
able that arrangements could be made
to close up the stores one afternoon a
week to permit business men and
clerks attending the games.
DENISON PAVING STARTED
7
Paving Crew kngaged at Present in
Laying Forme for Curbing—H.
A Norman Inspector.
Mr. Flinn's paving crew, which ar
rived in Denison last week, are busy
putting the curb stone forms in place
in North Denison. The forms, which
are built of lumber, were matle at the
local lumber yard and then pyt in
place on the streets in North Denison
that are to be paved. Enough forms
are used so that the cement mixers
will be in constant operation until all
of the curbing'is laid.
Another gang of men is engaged
in grading the streets to be paved and
getting them leveled up in good shape
Monday morning the grading gang
started in on the -street between the li
brary and the Methodist church, which
is being cut down considerably. A big
tractor is being used to plow up the
streets and teams .with scrapers are
removing the dirt and placing it in
low spots on some of the side streets.
At a recent meeting of the council
Mr.: H. A. Norman w^is solected to act
as one of the inspectors at the cement
mixers. Marshal A. C. Weeks and Mr.
Norman will watch the two cement
mixing machines and see that the
proper amount of cement and gravel
is used. Another inspector, will,be ap
pointed by the council to inspect the
laying of the curb stone.
Pre-Easter Style Exhibit of Wooltex Suits and Coats,
Women who have seen our Wooltex garments know that the styles are both refined and dependable.
In our advanced exhibit for this week the models that will be shown are the equals in style to the best of
those in the fashion centers. For this week we are showing Wooltex models that will be copied later in
the season by other makers of women's garments. You will surely want to see these new Wooltex suits
this week. To wait takes away something of the enjoyment of wearing new styles while they are new.
Thursday, Friday and Saturday of this week we feature one special lot of suits at
$25. There are garments in this lot that would regularly sell as high as $35.00.
Suits at $17.50. There are suits in this lot that Another shipment of beautiful coats just received,
would be marked to retail as high as $25. The Every woman who needs a coat for spring wear
lot is made up of novelty materials, plain serges $w27?o ^Ld
and rancy mixtures.
DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, TOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1916.
HOLD BASEBALL MEETING.
Number of Baseball Boosters Hold a
Meeting at Court House Last Eve
ning to Discuss Plans.
The baseball boys held a meeting at
the court house last evening, which
was well-attended, to discuss the mat
ter of organizing a ball club this seas
on. There has been considerable talk
of playing Sunday ball in Denison, as
many of the local players are so sit
uated that they are unable to leave
work to play ball on week days. The
new athletic park, located on the col
lege campus, wauld.ipt be available for
Sunday baseball so the matter of se
curing-suitable grounds was gone in
to at the meeting. The club has un
der consideration two* different loca
tions and it is believed that arrange
ments will be made this week for one
of the grounds. We are told that $200
has been raised for the purpose of leas
ing the grounds and erecting a grand
stand.
COMPLAIN ABOUT
TRAIN SERVICE
Monthly Meeting of Denison Commer
cial Club Held Friday Night and
Was Well Attended.
BAPTIST COLLEGE MATTER UP
Committee Appointed to Attend Bap
tist Mpeting at Des Moines and
Present Dcnison's Interests
The April business meeting of the
"crttinereial club was held at the club
rooms on Friday evening of last week
with a good attendance. The club is
rapidly gaining in membership and
two additional members were voted
in at the last meeting, they being G.
H. Grau, the new druggist, arid Carl
Caswell. We are glad to say that
nearly every business man in Denison
belongs to the club and if everyone
would plan to attend the regular month
I.v meetings, much permanent good
could be derived from the organiza
tion.
J. h. Lyon, president of the club,
enquired as to the prospects of the
Baptist college being located here. Mr.
H. A. Norman reported that he was
keeping in touch with the special com
mittee which has headquarters in Des
Moines, and who will select the site
of the new college. Mr. Norman stat
ed that the committee would hold a
meeting the last of this month or the
fore part of May, at which time they
would carefully go over the applica
tions made. The club thought it would
be best to have a cotnmittee from
here in attendance at the meeting iu
Des Moines and place Denison's pro
position before them. Mr. Lyon has
appointed Judge Conner, C. L. Voss
and H. A. Norman to attend the meet
ing when it is held.
The matter of passenger train ser
vice in and'out of Denison over the
Chicago and Northwestern road came
up for consideration and was discuss
ed at some length. Denison business
men are complaining bitterly over the
recent changes made on the Boyer
Valley branch art
id they are particu
larly anxious to have the traiu which
formerly went north at 7:05 in the
evening put back in service. A pe
tition containing the signatures of 700
residents of Denison has been sent
iu to the proper Northwestern officials
asking that the change be made. At
the same time the business men are
asking that No. 13 going west at 9:40
at night stop at Dow City. Dow City
people cannot return home after the
three o'clock train- in the afternoon,
and the, stopping of the late train
would bo a great convenience and ap
preciated by many people.
this week at $
19.50.
'(At t' Cm,
NEW
RTHMOl^
WAISTS
It wus reported to the club that the
Germania Opera House has contracted
with the Redpath Lecture course bur
eau to furnish Denison with a cours^
of five numbers for the coming win
ter. The talent engaged by the. Opera
house management of a very high
grade and probably the most expen
sive available. The club has decided
to cooperate with the opera house
people to help make the course pay
out.
The sprinkling committee reported
a balance on hand of $200.00 after pay
ing all expenses of last year's sprink
ling. The committee "will continue to
haVe the streets sprinkled up until
May. 1st. free of charge to the busi
ness men, and whatever balance is
left will be turned over to the club.
ENOC ERICSON MARRIED
Married to Miss Hazel Hanson, of Dun
lap at Harlan, Wednesday—Sur
prise to Their Friends.
Enoc Ericson. who is working in a
meat market at Dunlap, was married
last Wednesday to Miss Hazel Hanson,
a resident of Dunlap, the wedding tak
ing plac6 at Harlan. The wedding
was a surprise to the many friends of
the young people in Dunlap, wl'io did
not suspect that the happy event
would take place so soon.
Enoc was born and reared in Deni
son and received his education in the
public schools of this city. For a num
ber of years he was employed in the
Broadway meat market, working for
A. D. Randall and C. M. Jensen when
son who will wish him success.
Miss Hanson has been employed as
stenographer in the real estate office
of Cadwell & Cadwell at Dunlap for
several years and has a host of friends
in that community.
Seats for "The Birth of a Nation,"
which will be .shown at the Germania
theater next week were placed on sale
at Schlumberger's pharmacy on Mon
day and from present indications all
seats will be sold before the attraction
The entertainment will be given on.
Friday and Saturday, Apr" 21st and
22d. Manager Krauth is to be congrat
ulated upon securing this big fea
ture for Denison, for heretofore it has
only visited the larger cities. An or
chestra of twenty pieces will render
music during the entertainment.
Mrs. J. Phil Jones and Mrs. C. K.
Meyers went down to Dunlap yester
day to attend the convention of the
Woman's Home Missionary society of
the Methodist church. Mrs. J. Phil
Jones is the district superintendent of
the boys' Home Guards and nine boys
accompanied her and rendered special
music at the entertainment yesterday.
Wirthmor it's the recognition of other manufacturers of their absolute superiority. And because of the
tremendous nation-wide demand for the Wirthmor—the large scale on which they are produced, with the
resulting economies—you will always lind in Wirthmor. waists values that arQ unapproached. I"f you
want the best be sure it's a Wirthmor, and always remember that they can be bought in just one good
store in every city.
A dollar is always well spent when it buys a Wirthmor waist.
They are sold here exclusively.
msmmmmsmMmxffsmM-
"jjifwawfe. -aiia-
If you know of any
news kindly hand or
phone the Review News
department.
No. 15
GERMANS KEEP UP
INFANTRY FIGHT
Teutons Gain a Foothold in Advance
on Trenches but Are Driven Out
—Quieter We®t of Meuse.
RUSSIANS ARE STILL ADVANCING
Petrograd Reports Continued Progress
of Russians Against the Turks in
Region of Erzerum.
Lomlon. April 11—The armies of the
German crown prince around Verdun
are still vigorously on the offensive
against the French.
Having delivered an attack along the
line from Le Mort Homme to Cumieres,
west ot the Meuse, which netted them
a few small portions of French trench
es on the east of Le Mort Homme, the
German commanders rested their in
fantry here but on the east side of
the Meuse, iu the region of Douau
mont-Vaux. northeast of Verdun, threw
their men in large numbers against
the French trenches.
Here again they met with success,
but only for a short period of time, for
the French in a counter attack drove
the invaders from advanced sections
of trenche^they had captured and in
the operations took about 100 German
prisoners.
Prepare for Infantry Attack.
While the Douaumont-Vaux attack
they owned the shop. Enoc is a young
man of good character and is a hard was in progress,^tUe Germans ^had^not
worker and has many friends in Deni-
1
,""1
overlooked the lii^e between Le Mort
Homme and Cumieres, and covered
the entire region with an intense ar
tillery fire, probably preparing for an
other attack of infantry.
Along the remainder of the front
in France and Belgium there were
only artillery bombardments. In one
of these, north of Aisne, the French
guns caused serious losses to a strong
German column on the march.
In tho Russian theater an attempt
by the Germans to take the offensive
in the region of the Ikskull bridge
head was stopped by the Russians.
The big guns of both sides have been
busy at various points elsewhere
along tho front.
Russians Still Gaining.
Petrograd reports that the Russians
are continuing to gain ground against
the Turks in the region of Erzerum.
Unofficial advices are to the effect that
the Turks have regrouped their forces
and are now resisting stubbornly the
three Russian main lines of advance
into their territory.
The Austrians between the Adige
and Sugana valley have- brought into
the campaign artillery which is de
scribed by Rome as new and very pow
erful. The Italian guns, however, have
replied effectively to their fire.
Leaders in their industry are
the makers of Wirthmor waists
—and leaders in their respective
cities are the waist departments
wherein the Wirthmor waists
are sold.
So phenomenal has been the sale of Wirthmor
waists iu cities everywhere that it's but natural that'
others will attempt to emulate the Wirthmor plan.
This is the highest tribute than can be paid to the
Vvr|
\,-fw
'fn
V.
§1
.-q
"J
'4
l'f'|
I
1
Wi
