E ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
N INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, AEIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, APRIL 12, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 328
TH
PREVAILING IN
Armies of German Crown
Prince Are Still Vigorous
ly On Offensive Around
Verdun But Rest About
Le Mort Homme
HAVE SUCCESSES
THEN REPULSES
After Meeting- With Suc
cess Germans Are Driven
By French from Ad
vanced Positions and Have
KM) Taken Prisoners
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The armies of the German crown
prince around Verdun are still vigor
ously on the offensive against the
French.
Having delivered an attack along the
line from Le Mort Homme to Cumieres,
which netted them a few small portions
of French trenches on the east of Le
Morte Homme, the German commanders
rested their influence here, but in the
region of Douaumont-Vaux, northeast
of Verdun, threw their men in large
numbers against the French trenches.
Here again they met with success,
but only for a short period of time, for
the French in a counter attack drove
the invaders from advanced sections
of trenches they had captured and in
the operations took about 100 German
prisoners.
While the Douaumont-Vaux attack
was in progress, the Germans had not
overlooked the line between Le Mort
Homme and Cumieres, and covered the
entire region with an intense artillery
fire, probably preparing for another
attack by infantry.
Along the remainder of the front in
France and Belgium there were only
artillery bombardments. In one of
these north of the Aisne the French
guns caused serious losses to a strong
German column on the march.
In the' Russian theater an attempt
by the Germans to take the offensive
in the region of the Ikskull bridgehead
was stopped by the Russians. The big
guns on both sides have been busy at
front. ......
Petrograd reports tiat the Russians
are continuing to gain ground against
the Turks in the region of Ezerum. Un
official advices are to the effect that
the Turks have re-grouped their forces
and now are resisting stubbornly the
three Russian main lines of advance
into their territory.
The Austrians between the Adige and
Suganu valley have brought into the
campaign artillery which is described
by Rome as new and very powerful.
The Belgian guns, however, have replied
effectively to their fire. N'o infantry
nt tacks are reported in this theater of
the war.
Germany and Roumania have entered
into a compact fur the free exportation
from one country to the other of home
products for their own needs. War ma
terial is expected from the agreement.
Greece, according to a semi-official
dispatch from Berlin, has refused a re
quest of the entente allies to be per
mitted to bring troops from Corfu to
t Saloniki through Greek territory, as
serting that cholera prevails at Corfu.
Infantry Assaults Cease
I 'A IUS, April 11. There was a ces
sation of the Uerraati infantry assaults
to the west of the Meuse today, al
though the bombardment of the French
lines between Le Mort 'Homme and
Cumieres continued, according to the
official communication issued by the
war office tonight. A powerful attack,
however, was delivered against the
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', April 11. Ratifica
tion by the Nicaraguan congress of the'
treaty by which the I'nited States ac
quired for $3,000,000 canal route rights
and a coaling station on Fonseca bay
was announced in a dispatch received
here late today from Managua by Gen
eral Chamorro, the Nicaraguan minis
ter. The treaty already has been rati
fied by the United States senate.
Later the state department received
word of the ratification from Minister
Jefferson at .Managua. The final vote
was taken today in the Nicaraguan
house, the senate having acted last
week. It is assumed at the department
that the convention was accepted with
out amendment. If so nothing remains
to be done to put it into operation but
to exchange ratifications in the usual
form here or at Managua.
As the Nicaraguan government is
urgently in need of money, arrange
ments will be made at once for placing
the three million dollars to its credit,
probably in the shape of a warrant
drawn upon the I'nited States treas
ury and deposited with some bank to be
designated by the minister here.
The next step will be to authorize
the navy department to select the site
for the Fonseca naval station. Already
the naval hydrographers have made
fairly accurate surveys of the waters
of the bay, hut no attempt has been
made to find a definite location for the
station, which is expected to be of con
NICARAGUAN CONGRESS HAS
, APPROVED TREATY WITH U. S.
CONSTRUCTIVE PLAN
FOR CO-OPERATION
Shortly after the present management took charge of the Republican
nearly four years ago, this paper announced its support of certain defi
nite policies in connection with the Reclamation project, the most import
ant of which was an extension of the time of payment for the project from
ten to twenty years without interest. In connection with this plan the
Republican conducted correspondence with nearly seventy representative
western newspapers located in the .various projects. The most active sup
port was given this uestion of extension by our congressional delega
tion, and as is well known, the extension has been granted by con
gressional action.
We are face to face with another very important situation in con
nection with the development of this Reclamation project, and again the
Republican has a definite, constructive plan to offer.
The three vital questions now confronting the land owners under the
Salt River Project are as follows: First, the need of coming to some just
arrangement with the United States government at as early a date as
possible regarding the just and proper construction cost to be paid back
by the water users to the government. Second the date on which the
project shall be declared opened and payments on construction cost shall
commence. Third, the desirability of devising promptly some just method
by which the 32,00(1 acres now receiving only temporary water rights,
and the 11,000 acres of school land similarly situated as rapidly as the
same pass into private ownership, shall be given permanent and regular
water rights under the project.
SUGAR TARIFF
BILL DEBATE IS
ON III SENATE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. April 11. The day
in congress:
Senate
Met at 11 a. m.
Resumed debate on free sugar
peal resolution.
re
Sisal investigation continued in
committee.
House imigration bill favorable re
ported by immigration committee.
Adopted resolution by Senator Ken
yon asking Attorney General for re
port on justice departments investi
gation of Standard Oil company's ac
tivities since it was ordered dissolved,
particularly regarding gasoline prices.
Rejected Senator Weeks' amendment
to sugar bill to impose higher tariff
on citrus fruit.
Passed 4a to 32, senate substitute
for house sugar repeal resolution, ex
tending present sugar tariff, until
1920.
Adiourned at 5:40 p. in. to
noon!
Wednesday.
House
p Met at 11 u. m.
Naval and military committees con
tinued work on national defense
measures.
Debate continued on rivers and har
bors bill.
Adjourned at 5:-0 p. m. to noon
Wednesday.
Debate on the sugar tariff bill was
continued in the senate today with
its passage virtually assured. A final
vote was to be taken before adjourn
ment under an agreement reached last
Friday.
Four democrats, Senators Kroussard,
Ransdell, Newlands and Lane, joined
the republicans in voting against the
substitute. They favor the flat re
peal passed by the bouse. A sharp
controversy in conference between two
houses is predicted. Anticipating that
the house world insist noon its reso
lution. Senators Simmons, Stone and
Lodge were named as the senate con
ferees
Unl ;ss a conference agreement
reached ami adopted by .May 1, 'sugar
will go on the free list until such
time ns the repeal or extension of
the duty can be made effective.
Most of the tariff discussion today
did rot touch upon the sugar issue,
which had been talked out yesterday,
but was devoted to an amendment by
Senator Works of California, to in
crease the tariff on lemons and other
citrus fruits t one cent i pound.
(Continued on Page Three)
siderable strategetical importance in
view of of the favorable location for
the use of naval vessels cruising be
tween Panama and San Francisco.
During the consideration of the
treaty both Costa Rico and 'Salvador
filed notice with the state department
that their interests would be adversely
affected by the location of an American
naval station on the bay, and in each
case assurances were given that these,
interests (would be considered and
proper compensation made if justified
after the Nicaragua convention was in
operation. lt is expected that these
claims soon will come under consideration.
Los Angeles Wants Relief
From Indigent Mexicans
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS ANGELF-S, April 11. Los An
geles county oi.icials determined to
day to apepal to the federal immigra
tion authorities for relief from the bur
den of caring for the hundreds of in
digent Mexicans who have become pub
lie charges from causes existing priori
to their entry. Resolutions adopted to
day by the county board of suiiervisors
request that the federal authorities
make a thorough investigation of Mexi
can camps here with a view to deport-
A just solution of these three ques
tions is of immense advantage to the
continued and most prosperous de
velopment of this section, and we
will take up the various features of
this matter in the order presented:
It seems to be generally admitted
by those best posted as to the con
ditions of the project, that it will
not be completed until an adequate
water right has been provided for all
the land which can be safely irri
gated from the known sources of
water supply, and a system com
pleted for delivery of this water to
each quarter section of land fur
nished with water rights within the
project. Among these known sources
of water supply are the flood waters
of the Verde now wasted, although a
most excellent reservoir site, of which
a complete survey has been made for
the government, exists in the Verde
river at a point known as the Horse
shoe Reservoir Site about 'jr, miles
north of the junction of the Verde
and Salt rivers where, according to
careful estimates made by -the en
gineers of the government and the
Water Users' Association, a substan
tial dam can be erected at a cost
of approximately ? i.loo.timi, thereby
securing an annual average storage
of water now wasted of about :;imi,000
acre feet. It is also recognized that
with this additional storage added to
the storage row provided for at the
Roosevelt' reservoir ample water
would be provided for the 17:.ono
acres now entitled to regular water,
as well as for the 32. "On acres which
are now receiving but a temporary
supply, and the ll.ooo acres of school
land now receiving only temporary
water service.
In addition to the need of com
pleting the storage on the Verde as
a. part of the entire Salt River Pro
ject and not as a separate unit, quite
a large amount of work still remain;;
to be done under the regular Salt
River Project as now outlined, so
that in all justice the time has not
rt'et arrived to declare this project
open.
The question of the proper cost to
be charged the water users of the
Salt River Project is still unsettled.
As is well known, the majority of the
Survey Board specially appointed by
the Secretary of the Interior to con
sider the question of cost of the Salt
River Project, reported that in their
judgment the cost should be approx
imately $10.00 per acre. The Central
Cost Review Board, appointed by the
Secretary of the Interior, revised the
! decision of the other board and sug
gested that per acre was the
just and proper cost; while the fig
ure suggested by Mr Morris Bien
j representative of the Reclamation
Commission, but subject to revision.
was $t4.00 per acre.
The third question is the method
by which an adequate and permanent
water supply may be provided for the
use of the water users owning the
32.000 acres of land and the 11,0
acres of school land under the pro
ject, without Infringing on the just
rights of those water users under the
project already furnished with a reg
ular water supply.
On the l'4th of this month a bear
ing on the cost of the project will
be held before the Reclamation Com
mission at which the water users of
this valley will be very ably repre
sented by Judge Jos. H. Kibbey,
counsel of the Water t'sers' Associ
ation. John P. Orme, its president.
and Fred A. Jones, its consulting en
gineer. At the same time or immed
iately thereafter, we understand that
chosen representatives of the owners
of the 32,000 acres are to appear be
fore either the Secretary of the In
terior or the reclamation Commis
sion. asking that they be furnished
regular permanent water rights with
out delay.
It seems to us. that this situation
creates an opportunity to build the
Verde reservoir increasexthe spirit of
unity among all the water users of
the valley, and at the same time ob
tain a very proper and reasonable
extension of the time of opening the
project. Our plan is briefly this
That arrangements be made with the
Secretary of the Interior should the
(Continued on Page Twelve)
ing the indigents.
Many petty offenders and criminals,
it was said, were subject to deportation
under recent constructions of the immi
gration laws. The supervisors on April
3 ordered an investigation to determine
the advisability of calling a conference
of southern California counties to eon
sider methods to stop the influx of
Mexicans and to plan corrective meas
ures. Members of the boards said there
were 75,000 .Mexicans in Los Angeles
county,
I T
DECIDES UPON
FUTURE COURSE
Submarine Issue
Gennanv and
Ret ween
United
States Discussed In All
Phases By President and
His Department Heads
,L AWAITING
GERMANY'S NOTE
It Is Known She AVill Deny
Any German Submarine
Torpedoed Sussex ;wid
Disclaim All Rlame for
Several Other Attacks
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. April 11. The sub
marine issue between Germany and
the I'nited States was discussed in all
its phases today at a meeting of Presi
dent Wilson and his cabinet.
A general outline of the future
course of the American government is
understood to have been agreed upon,
although a final decision was post
poned (ending receipt of the German
note now on its way regarding the
Sussex and other merchant ships which
recently have met disaster and addi
tional evidence in the same cases col
lected by American diplomats and due
here Thursday.
It is known through confidential ad
vices from Ambassador Gerard that the
note from Li rim will deny that any
German submarine torpedoed the Sus
sex and disclaim blame in connection
with other attacks about which the
ambassador has inquired. Conse
quently, in spile of tlie convincing evi
dent e in tlie hands of the state depart
ment any reply that may be sent
probably will not deaf exclusively
with any one case or group of cases.
If such a communication as now con
templated is seal to Germany it will be
designed to preclude the possibility of
further drawn out diplomatic ex
changes and to make it plain that re
iterated assurances and promises thai
international law will he respected
cannot protect the friendly relations
between the two countries if illegal at
tacks upon peaceful merchantmen
carrying Americans are continued. It
probably will include a resume of all
the many vessels attacked from the-
time of the Lusitauia down to the
present.
The stale department already has
begun the collection of evidence cov
ering the whole history of Germany's
submarine operations. One of the
questions discussed at length by cab
inet members today was whether the
I'nited States should include in its list
of vessels attacked neutral ships car
rying no Americans. An argument
against doing this was that such ves
sels carry the flags of sovereign na
tions able to speak for th-mselves, but
the preponderating view was that they
should be included both on the ground
that many were going to or coming
from American ports, and on the
broad ground of humanity.
Colonel E. M. House, the president's
close adviser, came to the White
House today for the fourth time since
he returned from Europe as the
emissary of the president to investi
gate the submarine and other foreign
questions. He was in conference dur-
the day with the president and
other officials. His return at the time
when it was admitted the policy of the
American government was about to be
determined was considered significant.
It is understood that the I'nited
Stales still has much evidence to gath
er before a decisive step is taken.
While the general tenor of the German
note has been anticipated by advices
from Ambassador Gerard, officials
realize that its text may have an im
portant bearing upon the American
policy. The note is understood to re
fer not only to the Sussex, the mint
important of recent cases, but to t'ie
Englishman, Manchester Kngineer.
Kagle Point and Rerwindale.
The cabinet remained in session
more than two hours today and practi
cally the entire time was devoted to a
discussion of the submarine issue.
Later it was said the members stood
as a unit in believing that the recent
accumulation of attacks on vessels
without warning coming after a period
of comparative lull in submarine ac
tivity could not be overlooked.
It was appreciated that much of the
evidence under consideration had come
not from American sources but from
statements made by citizens of na
tions at war with Germany. For that
reason the evidence is Tieing very care
fully examined. It is realized, too that
(Continued on Page Two)
-
SCHILLER FEARS HANGING
WONT RESIST REMOVAL
NEW YORK, April 11. Counsel
for Clarence Hudson, alias Krnest
Schiller, who "captured" the Brit-
ish freighter Matoppa at sea, de- j
cided late today not to resist his j
I client's removal to Delaware to j
! answer a charge of piracy. The j
decision was Itused upon the dis-
cuvery that there were grounds upon
which Hudson could be deported
j to England, where he might be
banged for his exploit. After Hud- !
I son's counsel had abandoned his
j plan of seeking a writ of habeas j
! corpus, Judge Learned Hand signed
a warrant upon which the German
sympathizer will be taken to Del- j
I aware tomorrow.
D n
VILLA, "FOX OF THE SIERRAS"
REPORTED DEAD; SOME SAY
RUMOR STARTED OY HIMSELF
De Facto Troops
And Douglas Is Uneasy
Republican A. P. Leased Wire l
Dul'GLAS, April 11. General Ar-
mtlfo Gomez, commanding the de facto
Mexican troops which have gathered
on the Sonora-Chiiiuahua !order for
the announced purpose of guarding the
mountain passes, is quoted by -Mexican
friends in Agua Prieta as having told
them he would enter Chihuahua this
week at the head of a cavalry detach
ment of -approximately two thousand.
Gomez made ibis statement to several
people in tin- Sonora town opposite
Douglas -Monday afternoon while he
was there for a short lime to arrange
for provisions ajid supplies for his
column. Gomez is quoted as telling
them (hat be would star! Wednesday j
morning from his present base at Co-
Ionia Moreios, sixty-five miles sooth-j
east of Agua Prieta. i
The loute of the Goint z column will j
be through Pulpito pass, the same road I
loilowed by Villa's main army when it I
invaded Sonora last October. i
Come is quoted as stating that he
was original!;, iiistriuted by General!
P. Elias Calks, military governor of j
Soitota and commander-in-chief of the
PERSHING MAY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN .ANTuNIi 1, Tex.. April 11.--General
Funston said todav that Gen
eral Pershing had made no request J
NEED IRE M
. . i
HHEX T 1 f B
for additional troops, but his silence timns and further evidence of co-oper-on
that point was regarded by staff at ion by Crranza soldiers in the pur
officers here as due to his reluctance I suit of Villa were recorded in today's
to present a phase of the situation official reports from Mexico and the
that might be considered embarras
sing rather than to any confidence he
has in his ability to conduct the cam
paign against Villa miub longer with
the forces at his command.
Additional troops may be sent to
him without asking for them, but if
not. General Funston will make rep
resentations to the War department
explaining the necessity for strength
ening the punitive expedition at the
first call from General Pershing.
Headouarters officials were frank in
their expressions of 'amazement that
General Pershing had gone a's far as
he has witii the forces he has. and
almost hourly have expected word
from him that he dare not send fur
ther into Mexico the cavalry columns
now about Parral, 400 miles south of
the border, unless more men for the !
extension of the line if communica
tion are provided.
In the absence of any news from an
(Continued on Page Three)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
IHLI'JIBI'S, X. M.. April 11.-Six
wounded Mexicans, members of Villa's
band, which attacked Columbus a
month ago. were brought to Columbus
tonight. The men, the first prisoners
arri' ing at the border since the rai,d.
were brought here from Kl Valle in
motor trucks and under a heavy
guard. Officers accompanying the
train said they had been captured in
the town where they had been aban
doned by villa in bis flight when the
American column reached there sev
eral weeks ago.
According to reports obtained by
officers at the field hospital in F.l
valle, where they have been treated
until they were able to travel, the
men were wounded in the sortie made
across the international line by cav
alrymen under Major Frank Tompkins
immediately following the raid here.
They were carried by Villa until he
realized that he must make all pos
sible baste if he was to have a chance
to escape the relentless American
pursuit.
None of the men is in a dangerous
condition, army surgeons here say.
Only two of them are badly wounded,
one being shot through the legs and
the other through the jaw. The Mex
icans were taken immediately to the
Cantonment hospital here, where Cap
tain Lacy B. McAfee was attending
them, word was received or the death
of Mrs. McAfee at Fort Riley, Kansas.
The Mexicans admitted that they
participated in the raid upon Colum
bus but explained that at the time
they started on the foray they did not
understand it was an American town
they were to attack and that until
they were engaged in the battle here
the did not realize they had crossed
the international line. So far as could
WOUNDED HERS OFVIlin
BAND BROUGHT TO COLUMBUS
Moving
forces stationed in that state, to guard
the mountain passes and prevent the
entrance of Villa into Sonora.
"I have become convinced that Villa
will not attempt to enter Sonora, and
I am going into Chihuahua to help
capture him." General Gomez said.
At least four thousand infantry are
stationed in the Bavispe river district
of Sonora. and could be lapidly mobi
lized in Chihuahua through Pulpito
and Carrctas passes
The ''hinese residents of the larger
cities of Sonora are to he forced by
ihe stale governor to reside in special
districts, the limits of which will be
established by decree. Consul Ives G. ,
Lelevier said today. The Chinese will
not be allowed to conduct business or
reside outside these specified districts
and will probable be forced to dispose
nf many property holdings outside of
Ihe Pmits of "Chinatown" in each city,
Mr. Lelevier said.
The Chinese of
rmosillo, Guay-
mas. Nogales and Cananea will be the
ones chiefly affeeled .by the decree,
which is expected to be issued within
the next few weeks.
KrlffiS
IH SUPPLYING
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 1 1. Marked
progress toward solving the problem
of supplying General Pershin
col-
bonier.
Rumor from several sources that
Villa had died of blood poisoning, and
nv ' I Viue.e,a... -
nig oi an announcement, nv ine ue
facto government's war department
thai :l had reason to believe the ban
dit chief had been killed in action were
the occasion of much discussion here.
In some quarters there was a disposi
tion to credit the reports, but they
were without official confirmation, and
both army officers and slate depart
ment officials suggested that they
(Continued on Page Three I
VILLA IS IN HIDING
Republican A. P. Leased Wire most unattended, in the Sierra tniran
MEXICo CITY. April II. Fran-i tains of Chihuahua, according to in
cisco Villa has left the main body formation given out at tile war de-
of his command and is hiding, al-
, be learned tonight none of the pris- I infantry- wiU '"loK in on four sidps
oners is of rank and none of theml.'" h? re8io" wh"re Vi,,a ' said l"
professed any knowledge of the
whereabouts of Villa..
When they were put aboard
were put aboard theith i,.,-.,;,
truck train, one of them said he be- i
lieved they were being taken to be;
shot. In allay a rumor tnat this was'
the purpose of their being taken I
north, officers of the train were in-i
structcd to show their prisoners at
each of the Mexican towns through
which they passed.
No instructions as to the disposi-
rion of the prisoners upon their re-
eovery had been received at military
headquarters tonight.
First Details of Fight of
U. S. Troops With Villistas
Republican A. P. Leased Wire (mountain side, where the Villistas had
PERSHING'S CAMP AT THE j ambushed during their" lunch hour. Tho
FRONT IN MEXICO, April S. i By J Americans divided, one force charging
Aeroplane and Motor Courier to Co
lumbus, N. M., April 11.) First authen
tic details of the fight of April '1 be
tween Col. W. C. lirown's command
and a band of Villistas at Agua Cali
entes arrived here today.
Colonel lirown's. troops consisted of
cavalrymen of the Tenth. The place
where he caught the bandits was about
forty miles'north of Guerrero, being one
of several small detachments which has
attempted to hang together by hiding
in the mountains during the American
search of this immediate region.
About lunch time Colonel lirown's
troopers, crossing a wide plain toward
a ridge of mountains, suddenly were
fired upon from behind rocks on the
Word Conies from Various
Sources That Bandit Has
Died of Blood Poisoning
from Wounds Received at
(Juerrero
OTHERS SAY II K ,
IS NOT DEAD
These Point to Time With
out Number When lie
Has Been R e p o r t e d
Wounded In Effort to
Mislead His Pursuers
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CoLFMBUS, X. M., April 11. Th
report that Francisco Villa is dead
j0f blood poisoning resulting from the.
wound he is supposed to have re
ceived in the fight with Carranzistas
at Guerrero, was the chief topic of
discussion in Columbus tonight.
There was much speculation as to
whether the "Fox of the Sierras" had
not himself spread the report in an
effort to throw his pursuers off his
trail.
Lieutenants H. A. Dargue and K. S.
Gorrell, who brought the report to
Columbus after a 33o mile flight from
San Antonio, a short distance above
Satevo, said that the natives of
Southern Chihuahua placed great
faith in it. Students here of Mex
ican warfare, and particularly of Vil
la tactics. recalled however that
time without number in previous
campaigns the bandit leader has had
himself reported wounded in order to
mislead his enemies. These pointed
out that there is a strong possibility
that Villa is not wounded, despito
the persistent reports to the contrao'.
This possibility is recognized by the.
military authorities as it is sup
ported by the assertion of the air
scouts that they had been told that
Villa in his flight, made tin a jolting'
litter, carried on the shoulders o
chosen followers, jefused medical as
sistance and sent for bandages, which
he bound to his body himself.
That General J. J. Pershing, expe
ditionary commander, who today was
reported to be removing his head
quarters to Satevo and the advanced
detachments of American troops weru
still "too busy to report," was iudi-
CJU(, j,, the ,.10k of despiUches from
the front.
Kxcitetnent in Columbus as the re
sult of rumors current yesterday that
the town and the American line of
communication might be attacked
had almost completely abated tonight,
the citizens apparently feeling in
creased confidence in their safety.
To allay fears further. Major W.
R Sample, commandant of the expe-
(Continued on Page Three)
i partment today.
The last of his retreating forces
passed through the town of Cusihir-
jiaehie, Chihuahua yesterday, in their
; flight vtoward the mountains. They
were closely pursued by forces of the
jdefacto government, who hope to cap
iture the band and locate their leader,
j For this purpose, 4.000 reinforce
ments have been ordered to tho
scene by War Minister Obregon.
These troops, including cavalry ami
be hiding
The war department expresses
.great hope of the early
capture ot
Tw0 D)E (N AUxo WRECK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLl'M.Bl'S. Ohio, April 11. Dr.
Charles P. Gilliam, superintendent " of
the Columbus state hospital for the
insane, and Miss Elizabeth Somer
ville. Social worker in the Columbus
j Tuberculosis hospital, were killed to-
night when the automobile in which,
I they were riding, was struck by a
train at a crossing near here.
the rocks, despite the excellent cover
they afforded, while another went
around through a pass to flank the
bandits in case they retreated. One
American horse was shot from under
his rider as the rocks were charged.
The Villistas mounted and rode for the
heights, three of their number being
shot to death as the Americans pur
sued. This band of Villistas had one
machine gun. The gun itself was not
captured, but the mule which carried
the weapon, with its trappings, was
taken by the flanking force which
rounded the mountains. The Villistas,
with fresh horses, had too good a start
to be overtaken by the tired horses of
the Americans.
i
7 -r
ft
