VOL. xxVIII. MANNING, S. C:,-.WSDNEgDAX, APRIL 12, 1916 NO1
GAIN IN DEPOSITS
DURING LAST YEAR
REPORT SHOWS AN INCREASE OP I
ABOUT $8,000,000-IMPORTANT
CHANGES.
DISPATCHES FROM COLUMBIA I
Doings and Happenings That. Mark I
the Progress of South Carolina Pee.
pie, Gathered Around the State
Capitol.
Deposits in state banks exceed by
more than 20 per cent. the total at -'4
this season of last year, although the
number of state and branch banks
has decreased by 10. The gain in de
posits is nearly eight millions of dol- I
larsa._
Rediscounts and bills payable show
a decrease of nearly two millions of
dollars. The loans and discounts and t
total resources show an increase Qf
more than four and one-half millions. 1
Other items ekhibit no important "
changes -
These facts ippear from a consoli- t
dated statement of the 301 state banks i
and trust companies, the two private -1
banks and the 12 branch banke' in
South Carolina, which answered the
call of the state, bank examiner, Ivy
M. Mauldin, of Pickens, for state
ments as of March 7. The compari
son is with the statement of March 7,
1915.
The consolidated statement just
made b- Examiner Mauldin shows
Loans and discounts $54,685,180.70. The
capital stock paid in was $11,601,
590.70, and as urplus fund of $4,685,
713.51. All deposits amounted to
$4,252,753.91, and the total resources
and liabilities were $71,933,002 96.
New Board To Avert Strikes.
- John Adger Law of Spartanburg and
John Lee Davis of Columbia have been
appointe. by Governor Manning as
members of the state board of concili
ation. provided for by an act passed
by the general assembly at its last
sessions. Mr. Law holds office for
six years, Mr. Davis for four. Mr.
Law is appointed as "an employer of
labor in behalf of an incorporated
-company," Mr. Davis as "a member of
a recognized labor union." The third
member to be chosen jointly by the
Messrs. Law and Davis,. is to be
'neither an employer of labor in be
half of an incorporated company nor
an employe of any such company."
Mr. Law is president of the Saxon
mills in Spartanburg county. He is
one of the -best known and most ex
perienced textile operators in the
. Piedmont region and has also had
wide experience in banking. He is
a son of the Rev. Thomas Hart Law,
for 'many years stated clerk of the
Southern Presbyterian general assem
bly. He resides with his family in
the Saxon mill community, takes con
stant personal interest in promoting
the welfare of his employee and has
beeni a strong supporter of the textile
institute nearby, the purpose of which
is to enable mill workers to qualify
themselves for better pay and more
skilful and responsible employment.
e is 47 years -of age.
* Mr. Davis' name was on the list
submlitted to the governor by organ
Iser labor. Born 30 years ago in
Newberry, he has lived in Columbia
during the last ten years and Is at
present a linotype operator in the of
.fce of The State. Mr. Davis has held
:several important positions in the
councils of union craftsmen. He has
been president of the Columbia local
of the International Typographical
union and at present is an organizer
for the American Federation of Labor
ad the South Carolina federation. He
was. minute clerk of the South Care
lna Federation of Labor at its last
convention. During the recent strike
of platform employee of the Columbia
Railway, Gas and Electric Company,
he was a member of the board of me
diation, through which an amicable
~adjustment was effected.
Public Printing Contracts Let.
*The joint committee on printing of
the' house and senate awarded con-'
tracts for about $10,000 worth of state
printing to ten firms. in the state,
these having submitted lowest bids.
The list of successfd bidders fol-'
lows; R. L. Bryan company of Co
lumbia, The State company of Colum
-bia, DuPre Printing -company of Co
2matbia, Carey Printing company of
Columbia, Sloan Printing company of
Columbia, Lutheran Beard of Publi
cation of Columbia, Peace Printing
company of Greenville, Oulla Printing
company of Anderson, Greenwood In
dex Printing company of Greenwood
and the Dillon Herald Printing comn
pony of Dillon.
* Nurses -Elect Officers.
Columbia-Spar'tanlburg was select.
ed as the next conn ntion city by the1
South Carolina Graduate Nurses' Asso
ciation.- New officers uere elected as1
follows: Preident, Miss Mary C. Mc
Kena, superintendent of St. Francis
xavier Infirmary, Charleston; first vige
p~resident, Miss Alice Agnew, superin
Lendent of the Greenville hospItal; see
ond vice president, Miss FannIe J. Ba
low, Char-leoton; secretary, Miss An
tonia Gibson, health service nurse of
the Civic League of Sumter; treasurer,
Miss -Zacle Gulledge, Columbia.
Rememnb
WATION WEAK FOR
LACK OF NITRATE
IENATOR SMITH OF 8. C. D!
CLARES UNITED STATES 18
TOTALLY UNPREPARED.
1OTABLE DAY IN CONGRES
lenator Underwood Said for Lack i
Nitrates a Second Class Power
Could Make Us Surrender.
Washington.-Debte in Congrei
in various proposals for the erectic
>f a government plant for the fixatic
>f atmospheric nitrogen occupied
whole day. The pending amendmeo
was that of Senator Smith of Soul
3rolina to appropriate $15,000 for
lant, site and process to be dote
nined by the war department. TI
urplus capacity over the gover
rent's needs in peace times, undo
he proposal, would go into the man
tcture of fertilizer co be sold by tI
governmeat through the secretary 4
tgriculture.
Senator Hardwick of Georgia a
acked this phase of the amendme
is socialistic. He declared himse
nalterably opposed to embarking t
government on any such ventur
enator Smith said he had frame
he amendment with the purpose
-educing the cost of fertilizer to tV
armer because by a happy circus
stance, the government's milita
eeds and those of the farmer cou
>e met at the same time.
The European war was not an u
nixed evil, said the South CaroliT
senator, as it had convinced the pe
ile that the United States was total
prepared on sea or land to face wh;
nay be before it. He declared th;
he basis of all modern warfare wi
itric acid and yet no step had be(
:aken to Insure an adequate suppl
3ermany's successful resistance, he a
ierted, was due to the fact that a
sad foreseen the need of using atmc
pheric nitrogen and developed a wi
;o procure it.
"This vast expense we are contei
gating for the army and navy," Sen
or Smith said, "will be absolute
seless if we are cut off from our su
ply of nitrates."
Senator Lodge also attacked t
project but addressed himself pa
tally to the amendment offered 1
sentor , Underwood of Alabam
which would provide for a war-depai
nent investigation of the question
water-power sites and the process
ye used.
Senator Underwood asserted th
ifs amendment favored no specific pr
lect but only sought a full investig
Ion of the subject.
"There is not a senator here," as
Senator Underwood, "who does n
ealize the deplorable conditions th
:ountry would be in because of sho:
age of nitrates for explosives If we
ihould be declared against us. A se
md rate power could make us st1
'ender In six months if we had
Irplus of nitrogen and It had plenty
LOST 200,000 AT VERDUN.
trenh War Offiee Says Slaughter
Germans Has Been Gigantic.
Pars.-The German losses befo:
lerdun up to the present have reacht
Stotal of 200,000 men, one of tl
reatest battle losses in the who
ange of .warfare according to son
frical estimates made public here
'the result of careful Inquiry mac
n the highest quarters in which tl
gures have been rigorously check<
md verified."
"Documentary and verbal testimor
rathered and authenticated perrn
e giving of precise details concer
ng the losses suffered by the GE
nans and by us on the Verdun front
lays the semi-official communicatk~
riveni to the Associated Press. Du
n the period from February 21, whi
he battle began, to AprIl 1, It Is know
hat two army corps, namely the Thia
nd the Eighteenth, have been wit
Irawn from the front, having lost
he irst attacks at least one-third
:heir force. They have re-appear
since and have again sufferad 1i1
osses.
"The German reinforcements a:
ractically used up as fast as thi
ire put In line. The total effectives
he Eighteenth Corps have in th~
way lost 17.000 men and the Thii
orps has lost 22.000 men."
World's Largest Tobacco Order.
New York.-Ani order for 20.000,01
pounds of American tobacco for deli
ry to European governments, prin<
pally to France and Italy, was exec
ted here by the firm of Gaston, W
lam and Wigmore. It is said to1
he largest order of Its kind placed:
hiis country.
Child Labor Bill Won't Pass Sooni
Washington. - Senator Overma
inks It will be a long time befoi
he child labor bil can come up
he senate. Now pressing that bod
or consideration are the naval, rur
redits and ship purchase bills, in a
ition to all /the appropriation bil
ad others, including the President
olcy. These will render almost it
ossible any early consideration
'hid labor, and there are chance
at It will go over into the next se
dion. Advocates of the measure as
*rying to have It given consideratio
er Clarendor
METZTS
PRIZES ARE MNY
B IN SCHOOL MEET I
it YOUNG ORATORS AND ATHLETES H
FROM ALL OVER STATE WILL
MEET SOON.
S TO WORK FOR 22 MEDALS 0
rI All Entries For High School Contests G
Must Be in by April 15.-Schools
Are Urged to Come In.
i Columbia.-The state high school
rD oratorical and athletic meet will be cc
n held in Columbia Thursday and Fri- or
a day, April 27 and 28. The prelimi- m
t naries for the oratorical contest will to
b be held Thursday afternoon in the ax
a class rooms and society halls of the bi
r University of South Carolina. The in
Le finals in the oratorical contest will be le
n- held Thursday night in the chapel of m
9 the university. Two gold medals are gc
- Offered for first and second places in fr
18 oratory and a beautiful trophy cup to hi
)i the school whose representative wins or
first place. In 1915 Dakyns Stover of
,t. the Greenville high school won first vi
it place and the Greenville high school in
if holds the trophy cup in oratory. Sec- cc
!e ond place in oratory was won by Ed- th
a. win Quattlebaum of the Columbia hi
d high school. cc
Si The track meet will be held Friday, cc
.u April 28, on the university field, the de
5- preliminaries being held in the m
7 morning and the finals in the after- ye
Id noon. Pickens high school won the in
Sylvan trophy cup in 1915 for scor
n. ing the highest number of points, cl
a while the Greenville nigh .ool was ai
o- a close second. ai
ly Twenty-two medals are offered to ai
at the contestants in track athletics, 11 tr
It gold and 11 bronze medals. Each med- ai
.I al has the State seal upon it with the
) name of the event on the back. Rib- ci
y bons with the name of the associa- 6(
- tion stamped upon them are given to 5
e those wining third place in any track er
e event. Ii
L In addition to all this, S. B. Mc- 01
Master of Columbia is offering a beau- 1
- tiful trophy cup to the boy in the P1
a track meet who wins the highest 1C
1y number of points. . The contestants
P have every incentive to work for
honors.
e The secretary of the association, M.
E- E. Brockman of Greenville, is urging
Y all schools with three high school
a grades to come into the association
t- and will accept an application up to
>A -April 15 from any school desiring to of
x become a member, provided the name III
of the speaker with his subject, age,
it grade, scholarship. together with the w
>- names of the contestants in track in
- with age, grade and scholarship, is
sent to him by the 18th. Letters to G
Id this effect are being mailed to a num
t ber of schols which have not yet be- c
rs come members of the state associa
t- tion. This Is done to encourage
i schools to come in which participate t
c In field days between the 1st and 15th 01
- of April and realize what good material p
0 they have. . h
The University of South Carolina
furnishes free entertainment. The'l
only cost to the schools is railroad a
fare, which is nominal if block ticketsa
iare bought, and even where this can't h
ebe done the cost is low. -o
d ExtendIng "Morris Plan" Banks.r
e Columbia.-Existence of well consid
le ered plans for development in South
' Carolina at an early date of a system
of "Morris plan" banks, headquarters[
le to be in Columbia, transpired incident
e ally through informal discussion at a Itr
ddinner which James A. Hoyt gave at' tr
the Jefferson in honojr of the founder Ia
~of the Morris Industrial loan organiza- n
[tion, Arthur J. Morris, of New York i
l City.
r-' Sketched though it is in principle.
the project remains to be worked out
n In detail. The movement is due to
rinterest aroused in the Piedmont 0
Sthrough th operation of Morris lPlan
n l bak nClmi and Charleston.:f
d Mr. Morris accompanied by Mr. Hoyt,
1left Columbia by invitation for the*
In upcountry to canvass with local pro
fmoters the prospects for such insti-.
dtutions in Spartanbhrg, Greenville and
e Anderson.
e Enlarge Spartanburg Hotels.
7Spartanburg.-W. T. Finch. propri
I tro he Finch hotel, has announc
s ed the purchase of valuable property v
d on East Main street to be utilized in c
erecting ant addition to the present r
Finch hotel to cost between $75.000 c
and $100,000. He has paid $25,000 for di
0the lot to be utilizead and says con- p1
V struction will begin at an early date.
i- This addition to the Spar'tanburg to
U hotels and the building of the Cleve- D
1 land at a cost of $250.000, will give c
the city the most modern facilities in lb
this direction.
A commission has been issuet ts
the Johaistonl Times company of John fc
.n ston, in Edgefield county with a capi
'e tal of $5,000. The petitioners are: J. t
n R. McGhee, James G. Holmes and O- c<
Ly M. McGhee.
l The Carolina Tire Company of Col- c
umbia has been commissioned with a c
.s capital of $1,000. The petitioners are:
's J. M. Chapman and Ashley C. Tobias. Ic
>f A charter has been Issued to.- the T
s Florence Tailoring Company with a
- capi:y.l -. $1.00. The officers are: Ie
ee T. M. Stevenson., president, and M. R re
1. yc i.. secretary and treasurert .i
i's Big Celebrat
AND from Cl
TAPLE SOUTHR
INGHAMSADVNCE
IGHER PRICES ARE BEING PAID
FOR FAST COLORED COTTON
CLOTHS.
UE TO HIGH COST OF DYE
nghams Reaches New High Record.
-Bleached Goods Hignr-Fancy
Goods Active at High Prices.
New York.-Cotton goods market
ntinue strong in price with trading
a smaller scale. There ars still
any orders being booked for goods
be delivered all through this year.
td some instances are reported of
tyers trying to make engagements
to next year. The jobbers are much
ss active in purchases than the
anufactpring trades. Color cotton
ods still continue very firm, and
equent instances are reported of
gher prices being paid for fast col
ed cloths.
Staple Southern ginghams were ad
.nced another quarter of a cent dur
g the past week to a basis of seven
nts a yard, one cent a yard higher
an similar goods ever sold. This
gh price is due largely to the high
st of fast dyes. Bleached goods
ntinue firm with an advancing ten
ncy. Wide sheetings are sold in
any instances to the end of the
ar and many brands ar sold ahead
to September.
Cotton duck rules very firm. Print
oths and convertibles are firm. with
Ivances reported in satec. s, twiils
td some heavy drolls. Fancy goods
e active at higher prices, late. con
acts being placed. Fine yarn goods
e exceedingly high and firm.
Quote prices are as follows: Print
cths. 28-inch 64x64s, 4 cents; 64x
s, 3 7-8 cents; 38 1-2 inch 64x64s,
1-2 cents; brown sheetings, South
n standards, 8 cents; denims, 2.20s,
digo, 18 1-2 cents; tickings, . 8
tnce, 15 cents; standard staple
nghams, 8 cents; standard staple
ints, 6 1-2 cents; dress ginghams
1-2 cents.
MEXICANS OFFER WIRES.
lephone and Telegraph at Service
of American Expedition.
San Antonio; Texas.-The Mexican
ilitary authorities have offered the
nerican punitive expeditiQn jie use]
Mexican telegraph and telephone
es, according to General. Pershing's
port to General Funston. The offer
as made to the aviators who landed
Chihuahua last weeir.
The drivers of the aeroplanes said
ey had been treated courteously by
neral Gutierrez, commanding offi
r, after it was demonstrated that
ey had come as friends. Before'
at a few stones had been thrown at
em and a shot or two fired. No
L was injured.
General Pershing -said some sup
les had been purchas~ed in Chihua
ta but the limited amount made it
most impossible to get provisions.
The excellent work done by the
roplanes has been so marked that
adquarters officials are anxiously
rating reinforcement of that arm
the service. General Pershing's
ports indicate that the five still in
rvice are doing good work in scout
g and carrying dispatches.
French Capture Trenches.
Paris.-The capture by French'
ops of about 175 yards of a German
anch southwest of Douaumont vil
ge, northeast of Verdun, was an
unced by the war office. Progress
communicating trenches south of
e village also was reported.
The Germans* made two hand
enade att~acks on French positions
the Caillette wood, in the Douau
ont region, but both were repulsed.
Wst of the Meuse there was. only
ebe artillery activity.
Nine Killed by Submarine.
Malta. via London.-One engineer
.d eight lascars of the crew of the
amer Chantala, were killed when
e vssel was sunk by a submarine.
Lansing Replies to Protest.
Paris, via London. - Professor
mes Mark Baldwin, American sur
vor of the Sussex disaster, who
bled a protest to President Wilson
garding the destruction of the cross
annel steamer, received at his resi
nce in Wimereux the following re
y from Secretary of State Lansing:
'The President has communicated
me your cable of April 1. The
~partent is giving to the Sussex
se the most serious attention and
e greatest care.
(Signed) "LANSING."
Sumter has just awarded contracts
r $225,000 worth of street paving.
Governor Manning made a motor
ip into Kershaw, Lee and Sumter
unties last week.
Columbia won in the Y. M. C. A.
Lmpaign in which six Southeastern
ties competed.
Gov. Manning has appointed the fo!
wing township assessors for Lee
unty; C. L. Stuckey W. R. DuBose,
.C. PRoberson and A. D. McCoy.
Trustees of the State Colored Col
ge at Orangeburg are planning to
place the dormitories, recently de
royed by fire.
ion to be hel
iarleston w:
HOUSES FOR MILL WORKERS
Judson Management at Greenville
Finds Convenient Plan.-Payment
to Be Made in Six Years.
Greenville.-Believing that home
ownership is one of the essentials for
the happiest citizenry, the Judson mill i
management has decised a plan
whereby employes of that mill may
buy residence lots at a very low fig
ure ahd on easy payments. - Having
bought the lot, the mill management
will undertake to erect for the pur
chaser a house thereon, not to exceed
$1.000 in cost, and to allow the pur
chaser as much as six years to make
all payments. The interest rate will
lie 7 per cent.
A street has been laid off, though
not yet graded, and some 30 lots, 60
by 150 feet, mapped out. Fourteen
of these lots ane been sold.
The location of these lots is near
the Piedmont & Northern line, con
tiguous to the present Judson mill
village. Four houses have been erect
ed already. No house, under the con
tract, can cost less than $650. The
cottages now erected are neat and
homelike.
The mill management is seeking to
Work in conjunction with the em
ployes toward the goal of home own
ership which will certainly mean
more happiness for. all concerned,
more prosperity and stability in' em
ployment. In addition to making this
proposition in regard to the purchase
of lots and the erection of homes, Jud
son mill is now employing two welfare
workers, making arrangements for
various kinds of outdoor sports and
doing other community work, all of
which is of a co-operative nature.
Property Will Be Closely Inspected.
Columbia.-Orders have been issued
from the office of the adjutant general
for the inspection of the National
Guard of this state. Gen. Wm. W.
Moore will be the inspecting officer.
The tour begins April 17 and ends May.
25.
Particular attention will be devoted
to the care and preservation of the
government property by the company
commanders. The books and records
of each company will be carefully in
spected. In addition to the verifica
tion of the goverfment property, the
inspection will include a careful exam
ination of the manner In which the
company affairs are administered, the
examination of the finances of the
companies, extended order drill, fire
discipline and an inspection to deter
mine whether the companies are pre
pared for active service in the field.
Any company failing to have 75 per
c'ent of its enlisted strength present at
inspection will, under the laws of the
state, be disbanded.
Teach Indians Better Way.
Rock Hill.-The committee of wo
-men of the Baptist churches of Rock
Hill, appointed by the district conven
tion of the Baptist Woman's Mission
ry societies at a recent meeting in
this city to aid in securing funds for
the building of a Baptist church on the
reservation of the Catawba Indians,
collected about $125 for this purpose
as a res~ult of the 'tag day" campaign.
This amount added to the sum already
contributed from various sources
amounts to almost half of the $1,000
desiredl for the modest church build
Ing which the Baptists hope to have
erected on the reservation.
Cadets Will Camp at Anderson.
Anderson.-President Riggs of
Clemson College has announced that
the corps of cadets would encamp In
this city during the week beginning
April 24. Commandant Jones has in
spected the proposed site on Green-i
yille street and says it Is ideal for'
the purpose. The entire corps of 750
men will make the trip from the col-~
lege and spend the entire week here.
Charleston Losti n Fight.
.Washington.-Charlestonl lost her
fight in the house for an approlation
of $175,000 for the purpose of deepen
ing the approach -to the navy yard, in,
spite of the fact that Representative
Whaley, supported by Representative
Lever, made an earnest plea and had
the- assistance of several members of
the South Carolina delegation.
Charleston Lost -In Fight.
Washington. - Congressman Rags
dale secured the appointment of Ed
ward B. Wheeler of Marien c>naval
aide to Ambassador Sharp at Paris.
SOUTH CAROLINA NEWS ITEMS.
A. C. Smith, agriculturalist of the
United-States office of farm manage.
ment, has practically completed his
investigation into the cost of produc
Ing cotton in South Carolina and the
report will be filed next week with,
the national department of agriculture.
The investigation has covered a period!
of about 15 months and- much valuable
informtion has been gathered. Ex-'
haustive investigations have beenI
made in Anderson and Orangeburg
counties.
M iutual Company Commissioned.
The Florence Coux'ty Farmers' Mu
tual Fire Insurance Company has been
commissioned by the secretary of state
to.. do a'g eneral fire insurance busi
nes. - The petitioners are: J. WV. Mc
Cown, E. M. Matthews. L. A. McCall,
Jr., F. L. Howard. A. B,. Hamier, R. E.
Cu'rin, J. E..Pettigrewv, J. S. McKen
zie. D. E. Fraser. M. H. Purvis. W. H.
Keith, S. E. Jefford5- and T. I. Burch.
This is the -fourth mutual fire insur
anee :-cmpany to be commissioned
~ic'e the passage of the anti-compact
law by the legislature.
d in Mannin~
11l Furnish M
State Bonds Sold and Payment Made.
Nearly ten millions of dollars was
bhandled one day recently by the state
treasurer, S. T. Carter, in the process
Af refunding the state securities
inown as brown consols. Early in the
lay Mr. Carter was handed a check
for $4,779,037.20 by J. Pope Matthews,
cashier of the Palmetto National
bank, in payment for the entire issue
of refunding bonds which had been
purchased by a syndicate of banks
formed by Mr. Matthews on terms
very advantageous to the state, in
competition with a number of other
bidders.
The new bords had already been
placed in the hands of trustees in
Charleston, Baltimore and New York
and by these they were delivered to
the new owners on receipt of dis
patches from Columbia saying pay
ment had been made. In this way
not a day's interest was lost.
Mr. Carter redeemed during the day
several large batches of the old brown
consols and in doing so had occasion
to write several checks for more than
$1,000,000 each. One lot delivered
through the Palmetto National bank
was taken up with a check for more
than two and a quarter millions.
Mr. Matthews' syndicate is compos
ed of the Palmetto National bank,
Stacy & Braun, the Mercantile Trust
and Deposit company, Townsend Scott
& Son and the Germania Savings
bank. The par value of the securi
ties it bought was $4,731,720. Prem
ium and interest amounted to $47,
317.20, which made the total payment
$4,779,037.20.
The new bonds bear interest at the
rate of 4 per cent, whereas the
brown consols for which they were
exchanged carried 4 1-2 per cent, so
that there will be a large saving to
the state by reason of the refunding.
The bonds are what is known as
"20-40" bonds, .since their term is 40
years, but the state has the option
of taking them up at any time after
the expiration of 20 years.
nsurance A Puzzle to Leaders.
"The insurance commissioner has1
failed in his expectations to provide
relief; the warehouse commissioner
is about to fail in his efforts to secure
the insurance necessary on cotton
stored in state warehouses," said Gov.
Manning in a statement on the insur
ance situation. The governor a few
days ago received a letter from John
L. McLaurin, state warehouse com
missioner, advising him that the 'in
surance on state cotton is intact, but
I do not know how long it may re
main so." Commissioner McLaurin
urged the governor to call a special
session of the legislature to provide
relief in the present emergency.
'I shall without delay use every ef
fort officially and personally to rem
edy the situation," said Gov.'Maning.
Thirteen Companies Stay.
Thirteen of the 93 stock fire insur
ance companies that were authorized
last year to do business in South Car
olina have renewed or given notice of
their intention of renewing their 1i
censes for the ensuing year, according
to information given out from the of
fie of the insurance commissioner.
All the old mutual companies and two
or three more recently chartered will
also continue to transact business.
The new licenses date from April 1
for the succeeding 12 months.
The 13 companies are: Equitable of
Charleston, Palmetto of Sumter, South
Carolina of Columbia, Southern Home
of Charleston, Southern Underwriters
of Greensboro, N. C., Southern Stock1
of Greensboro, Underwriters of
Greensboro, New Brunswick of New
Jersey, New Jersey of Newark, Amer
ican Druggists of CincInnati, Georgia
Home of Columbus, Pacific of New
York, and the Germanla of New
York. The Gerrmania has paid its
license fees but has not signified its
intention of establishing and agen
cies for the writing of business.
New Enterprises Authorized.
A commission was Issued to the
Charleston Cement Products corpo
ration with a capital of $5,000. The
petitioners are: Walter B. Wilbur and
3. J. Murray.
The Finn Jewelry company of Wal
terboro has been chartered with a
capital of $5,000. The officers are:
A. Finn, president, and S. Finn, sec
rtary and treasurer.
Yonce & Co. of Graniteville has
been commissioned with a capital of
$1,000. The petitioners are: G. W.1
Yonce and Mrs. Cora P. Yonce.
The Consolidated Garage .t Char
leston has bee 2 commissioned with a
capital of $10,000. The petitioners
are Hugo Jahnz and E. A. Jahnz, Jr.
The Summerton Drug Company has
been commissioned with a capital of
$2,000. The petitioners are C. V. Dui
Bose and L. WV. Carrigan.
A charter has been issued to the
Fountain Inn -Jersey Bull Association
with* a capital of $1,400. The officers
are: S. L. Sloan, president, and E. J.
Sloan, secretary and treasurer.
Can't Use Mexican Railways.
Queretaro, Me::ico.-The Mexican
government has not given the Ameri
can government permission to use
Mexican railways for any purpose
whatever, said Gen. Candido Aguilar,
Mexican minister of foreign relations
after a meeting of the Carranza cabi-I
net. At the cabinet meeting General
Carranza and his advisers discussed
modifications suggested by the United
States in the recent proposals for an
agrec:no.t for crossing the frontier
be~tween the United States and Mexico1
7 their armed forces.
r-FILD. DA
usic for the
Which -Do You Prefer?
It is important for reasons of. heth and.
practical decohOmy .for every ho eekepe
to ask herself this question: -
"Do I prefer a pure baking powder like
Royal, made of cream of tartar derived from
grapes, or -am I willing to use a baking
powder made of alum or phosphate, both
derived from mineral sources?"
The names of thc ingredients. printed.
on the label show whether the kind yOU
are now using or any brand, new or old,:
that maj be offered is a g e uine cream
of tartar powder, or merely a phoimp.atY
or alum compound.
Royal Baking Powder contains no alum
nor phosphate.
ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO.
New York
FIELD DAY
Friday,!April 14th, 1916, Beginning at 10:30 O'clock.
Following the plan of last year, the county is divided nint th
following.groups 'for the purpose of selecting representastes to
take part in the Declamation contests: also for theatheieticcontest.
Pinewood group, consisting of Pinewood, Paiville,Big Branch,
Home Branch, Silver, Grange Hall and Pineland schools.
Summerton group. consisting of.Summerton. Davis tat o
Oak Grove, Cross Roads, Panola and Jordan schools.
Sardinia group, consisting of Sardina, Enterprise, Harmony,
akda le, New Zion, (consolidated) Barrow, and New Harmony'
Schools.
DTurbeville group, consisting of Turbevile, Coker, :aub -
licks, McFaddin, Barrineau, and Sunny Side schools..
Manning group, consisting of Manning, Alcolu, Trinity ,.
vin, Foreston, Wilson, Baywood, Thigpen, Mission, Gre rSavana,
Deep Creek. Bear Creek. had Line schools.
Each school is entitled tosend a-.boy and a girl represetative
for each classification to the groupeontest event.
Each school group is entiedto-select from those cointtan
two representatives, a boy anta girl, for each classifi to take
part in the Declamation contaets'at the General Field y occasion
The teachers of the schools in 4he easpectiveigrdfps- are-=
pected to confer. abd arrange a dae amore.the: general field day ta
try out" their representatives, ap4bus select one boy and one
girl for each of the following divifion:
Class A-Boys aiid girls undeir2:years of age.
.lass B-Boys andgi 1sfirom2tV1
Class C-Boy agn Is' , l 't#o 18 years of jige.
In order for the schools noP : to lose time from the :egolar
school work, it is suggested that? Saturday be-isedbs al"try out"
event.
The various-school groups may provide prizes for thelwinners
if they so decide.
The winners at the General Field Day will be given appro
riate prizes, some of which will consist of goldanedals.
It will be~ seen that the plan this year causes boys to [compete
with boys, and girls with girls.
ATHLETICS,
The athletic sports will take place immediately-after-the din
er hour. and will consist, forthe Boys. of Running High Jump,
unning Broad Jump, Standing Broad Jump, and racing contests,
0, 75, and 100 yards, according to age as per the declamsttion
ontests
For Girls there will be racing contests,. and -such otjer
features as the committee may determine at the' time. Prizes to be
warded the winners.
LIT.ERARY FEATURES. ' '
Written examinations wil be held at Manning on'Saturds),
pril 8th.. in which each school at largein the coubty will be en.'
itled to ore representative for, each' feature. Examination to be
in at eleve~n o'clock, and close at one o'clock. No pupil permitted
o0 take more than one examination. No one permitted to enter after
2 o'clock.
Spelling, 5th anid 6th grad'es, 50 words from Hunt's Speller,
ook 2.
Spelling, 7th grades and up. 50 or more words, selected main
y from Payne's Common Words Commonly Misspelled.
Arithmetic-Common fractions, planned for 5th and '8th
rades.
Arith emetic-To cover common and decimal fractions, planned
or 7th and 8th grades. -
Algebra-Up to factoring. planned for 7th. and 8th grades. -
Algebra-Factoring and fractions above 8'th grades.
Grammar-Kinard--Withers. Book I, planned for 5th grade -
Grammar-Kinard--Withers,.-Book 2, planned for 6th and 7th
rades.
No contestant capable of the moreadacwokpemtd
o compiete in-the lower subject. Trhe otsasmuteniy
e students in the books specificed.
Compostion work for the more advanced 'pupils on the ques
in of "Preparedness"~-W by or why not should the United States
rovide a large army and navy? Each contestant can take either
side of the question. The best conspositions, two from each school,
bold be sent to the County Superintendent by April 1st. The.
winners will be announced on Field Day, April 14th. Suitable
rizes will-be awarded.
11i case any school in the county- has to close its session before
~ny of the dates specified, the 'teacher should plan to -have the
ellool representented, and the contestants to attend the group
vent. There will be no need for any school to be deprived of any
be advantages offered.
Baseball, Basketball, and other enjoiyments to -complete the -
ay. 'Let all comet preparedto get the most ppssible out of all thp
eatures.
'For any additionai information, Address the County Supern-~
ent of Education.'
Y--on April 14th, -916.
Occasion1
