The Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City and Constitu­
tion-Democrat
is received over
our own leased wire.
"7: ,*
fc-i AiV'.w.-'':-. -"j
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, April 12.—
Ifbe American expedition today is
•nearer the consummation of its ob
J|ect than at any time since the chase
•for Villa started. This was the be
Itief of Major General Frederick Fun
iBton, expressed today in the fact of
•conflicting rumors regarding Villa's
(death and the progress of the expe
Idition. American troops are south of
|Pnrral, some of them believed to be
lover the Durango state line, riding
[hard on Villa's trail. The phantom
iCarranzlsta oolumn reported for days
Ito be waiting south of Parral in a
•wide cordon ready to head off Villa
land force him into a decisive flight,
(has not yet materialized in' reports
|to headquarters. If this Carranzista
force is in the three-cornered game
(behind the curtain of the almost in
faccessible Mexican country Villa's
Iforce is not yet out of immediate dan
[ger, it was believed,' in view of as
surances from Carranzista command
|ers.
Funston was highly optimistic for a
[quick, successful termination of the
I
chase. His messages of the past week
I have repeatedly emphasized the
friendliness and co-operation of Car
ranza commanders. In addition he
has received encouraging reports on
the physical welfare of the expedi
tion. Both men and horses are in
splendid condition, according to ad
vices to headquarters. Funston today
gave unstinted praise to Colonel Dodd
for pushing his pursuit so persistent
ly. Despite the handicaps of chasing
th» bandit in a strange country.
Dodd's cavalry so far has inflicted
one severe defeat and kept fugitive
Mexicans on the jump ever since the
expedition started. Just how near
Villa's force the American cavalry
men are today, was not definitely
known, but it was believed Dodd is
tot far behind.
Rumors of Villa's death were met
*ith derision at headquarters. Offi
cers there regarded them as the re
sult of hysterical talk among the
natives in the Interior which gradual
ly spread and finally found their way
to the border.
Battle is Reported.
[By E. T. Conkle, United Press Staff
Correspondent.
EL PASO, Texas. April 12.—A
battle was reported to have been
fought between Jimenez and Parral,
but on account of the Carranzista
censorship, the forces engaged were
not made known.
A Mexican Central train ran into
the fight, later returning to Jimenez
whence the censored reports were
sent to the border. It Is not known
here whether American forces en
gaged in the fighting. Information
from mining men in Parral placed an
American detachment in that vicinity
and Villista bands alBO were recently
lev
•.
In
LONDON, April 12.—Shifting the
Jttack back to the west bank of the
Meuse, the Germans have oponrd a
lieavy drum-fire on the Dead Man's
pill positions, presaging another ham
™er blow against the French line.
A terrific concentrated Are was
Poured in ail day yesterday on the
Northeastern ridge of Dead Man's hill,
"here a heavy German attack Mon
night gained a foothold on the
Hopes. Having gained this strip on
toe French second line of defenses
crown prince began systematic
Artillery preparation for a renewal of
"le assault, creating a diversion
JjeMwhile by attacking east of the
blow, Mn«f between Doaau-
ftif
5
1
VOL. 122. NO. 88.
Chances for Success of Expedition are Brighter
Today Than Any Time Since Chase
of Bandit Commenced.
OF HIS DEATH ARE DERIDED
Colonel Dodd's Cavalry is Thought Not Far
Behind the Fleeing Outlaws Who are
Scurrying to Safety.
reported thereabouts. Carranza
authorities in Juarez were silent re
garding the battle.
Where Villa himself is, today is a
mystery. The rumors of his death
were believed to have been Inspired
by Mexican sources to bring about
the withdrawal of the American
troops.
However all mining company re
ports tend to show Villa was with a
small column of bandits last reported
near Tepehuanes, Durango.
That the main American cavalry
squadrons are in southwestern Chi
huahua is shown by negotiations be
tween the quartermaster's depart
ment and El Paso dealers for large
shipments of hay and oats to be
shipped ovel- the Mexican Central
railway via Chihuahna" City.
This was another Indication that
American forces in the neighborhood
of Parral and'Jimenez'where a fight
is reported to have occurred.
Fort Bliss headquarters received
an unconfirmed report that an anti
American proclamation was circulat
ed in Chihuahua City last Friday.
Presumably the Carranzista authori
ties suppressed it as all other reportB
told of co-operation from the defacto
government representatives there.
Carloads of Supplies.
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, April
12.—)
(Contlnued on page 2.)
FIERCE STRUGGLE CONTINUES
ON DEAD MAN'S HILL
•Germans Are Preparing for
Another Sledge Hammer
:•Blow at French Lines.
mont and Vaux. was finally beaten
back. The Germans first penetrated
French advanced trenches, but were
driven out by counter attacks of great
violence.
The grand assault begun by the
Germans Saturday and continuing un
til early yesterday, was designed to
break through the French second line
northwest of Verdun, Paris reported
today. The crown prince smashed
heavily against the French center in
the fighting Sunday. During Sunday
night large forces were transferred
to the French right wing and at day
break on Monday the Germans
launched an attempt to roll up the
French flank.
Caught under the combined fire
from Dead Man's hill and Hill 304,
the Germans were beaten back in
their assault against the French cen
ter. On the northeast, they were
shielded by ravines and hills from
the batteries of Hill 304 and gained
their most substantial success of the
three day's battle.
for nil
BERLIN, April 12.—German troops
have advanced at several places in
the fighting in Caillette wood north
east of Verdun, the war office an
nounced this afternoon.
West of Caillette woods, three
French counter attacks In the Pepper
heights region broke down under Ger
man artillery fire.
On the west bank of the Meuse,'
Scthh:t5Z™o7h"?uZuX° ZZ TWO
checked by the Germans,
German troops raided English posi
tions near La Boiselle during the night
taking 29 prisoners.
MORE PEACE TALK.
[By Carl W. Ackerman, United Press
Staff Correspondent.
BERLIN, April 12.—The end of the
war has been brought appreciably
nearer by significant developments of
the last forty-eight hours.
Press reports of Premier AsquJth's
Monday night reply to Chancellor Von
BethmannHoiiweg's speech reached
Berlin today. They created a mild sen
sation. Disregarding certain belliger
ent phnaae*, well-informed Germans in
terpreted Asqulth'B' speech as a frank
hint that the time Is drawing near
when England will be willing to enter
peace discussions.
For the-first time since the begin
ning of the war, the English premier,
as Germans interpret his speech, modi
fied his demand that Prussian militar
ism must be crushed. When he substi
tuted for this the statement that Ger
man "military caste" must not In the
future guide Germany's International
policies, Germans believe that he ex
pected a complete backdown. Ger
mans assert that the so-called military
caste was not in the diplomatic sad
dle before the war and that the chan
cellor's recent victory over the Von
Tirpitz faction Is evidence that the ele
ment Asquith professes to fear has
not gained control of Germany's for
eign policies. The HoHweg's and As
quith statement, together with recent
official uteerances, Indicate peace pros
pects are taking shape along the lines
Indicated In the following sub divis
ions.
Indemnities—Both Germany and
England apparently have abandoned
the Idea of making the enemy pay for
the war.
Belgium—the allies demand restora
tion and complete independence of
Belgium. Germany agrees to this, pro
vided that Belgium does not discrimi
nate against Germany after the war.
Poland—Germany insists that con
quered Polish territory shall not be re
turned to the czar. Russia pledges
autonomy for the Poles.
the face
EL. PASO, Aiprll 12.—A'bout twenty
five carloads of provisions for the
United States soldiers in Mexico were
expected to go forward over Mexican
lines today. The shipments are be
ing handled by El Paso firms. More
than half will go over the Mexican
Central railroad to Chihuahua City future of Poland.
to be transferred there to the south-' Baltic Provinces and other Russian
ern division of the Mexico North-j territory held by the Austro-Germans
western and forwarded to the Amer-i—Germany insists that none of this
ican forces in western Chihuahua, territory shall be surrendered to the
This, the first use of the Central line czar. The allies are silent on this
for the benefit of the United States point.
expedition, is regarded as strong,1 Balkans—The central empires insist
proof of Carranza co-operation. Ithat Russia shall never again dominate
Balkan affairs. Bulgaria will demand
Anxiety at Headquarters. Serbian Macedonia. Premier Asquith
has announced that not only must
Movements of Mexican military Serbia be restored, but that she must
forces in northern Mexico and the receive territorial compensations for
activity of various Mexican political *1ep
leaders are causing anxiety at Gen-! Alsace-Lorraine—Germany has made
eral Funston's headquarters, it was no recent official statement, but im
learned on highest authority here to-! portant suffrage concessions have beerc
day made to the provinces. In Franco the
Army officers and consular agents clamor for the rstoration of Alsace
were perplexed by Carranzista troop Lorraine complete apparently has sub
movements across Chihuahua state sided.
in northern Mexico. These forces! Colonies Germany counts as
in norinern iviexico. mese iuiumi 1 nnnovlne lptter?
were reported moving from east to tain the restoration of her lost colon es hei^ annoying tetters,
west. Though details of the move-i or an equivalent cession of colonial Canfield, Warren, 111.,
ments were not made public, the re- terltory and
ports given out declared General expansion the direction of Bag
Calles conducted a large force of
Car-jdad.
ranzistas past a point southeast of the subject of Germany a colonies.
The ail lea £ve been ..lent on
NEIW YORK, April 12.—Ric'flard
Harding Davis, noted war correspond
ent and author is dead.
Davis dropped dead from heart
failure while talking over the tele
phone in his home at Mount Kisco
last night, it was learned today.
Davis was receiving a telegram
anli Cj3nsttlutton=©Emocrat
KEOKUK, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, APR. 12, '16
EACE RVMOR STIRRING GERMANY
CHINA TO SPUT
BIO TWO PARTS
Southern States With 100,000,
000 Population to Form
Into Separate
Republic.
HAVE SECEDED
Movement la Spreading and President
Yuan Shi KaJ Is Working
to Prevent the
Dissolution.
SHANGHAI, April 12.—The Chin
ese province of Ch© Kiang has seced
ed from the republic, according to
dispatches received here today.
Armistice Arranged.
ORBKHNiGr, April 12.—An armistice
has been arranged for the purpose of
formulating plans between the gov
ernment and the Chinese revolu
tionaries, It was announced today.
Canton as New Capital.
SHlAJNGCHAI, April 12.—Formation!
of a new republic of southern China
with a population of about 100,000,000
may be announced within a few
weeks. Following the lead of the
province of Kwang Tung, the import
ant maritime province of Che Kiang,
on the eastern sea today seceded from
the republic. Emissaries of the rev
olutionists have arrived in-
In an effort to save the republic
from dissolution, President Yuan Shi
Kai has summoned revolutionary
leaders to meet htm in conference at
Peking. The southern rebels have
not yet accepted this Invitation.
PARIS, April 12. Transferring
of German claims, En-.their activities again to the west bank
gland and France are silent on the of the Meuse, the Germans early this
morning attacked French positions
in Caurette wood, on the northeastern
approaches to Dead Man's hill.
Flaming liquids were again em
ployed in the attack which spread
from Dead Man's hill southward to
Cumienes. The war office announced
'repulsed
th®t1th?
Germans
were everywhereinate
The Germans did not return to the,
the
tacks against the French lines
tween Douaumont and Vaux.
Mrs. Angela R.
mayor, Is here
to take an officer back to Warren
with her.
-Advertise in The Gate City.
Richard Harding Davis' Death
Was Sudden and Unexpected
Davis, formerly Bessie McCoy, the Recently he contributed a number of: York's poorer classes,
dancer. He went to the telephone at' articles to magazines on the subject
9:50 and when »he did not return.! of national preparedness.
Mrs. Davis assumed that he had prob-: His present wife wag formerly
ably sat down to read. After con-1 Bessie McCoy, a musical comedy star,
siderable time had elapsed and Davis whom he married after his first wife,
did not respond to calls, Mrs. 'Davis the daughter of a prominent Chicago
and her daughter. Hops, went to la- family^ divorced him four ftni-aift
m:
A
ctfc Cif jj
111 2.—More than
British soldiers were
tsands of others were
unsuccessful attack on
ne8 east of Kut El
urklsh war office re-
BERLIN,
three thousa
killed and
wounded in
the Turkl#
Amara, th
ported toe«a*
The British defeat is the moat dls
astrous since the beginning of the cam
paign to relieve General Townshend's
forces beseiged In Kut-EI-Amara for
more than four months. The fighting
occurred near Felahle, 23 miles east of
Kut-EI-Amana in the bend of#the Tig
ris river.
"Ater an hour and a half of heavy
artillery preparation," said the Turk
ish official statement, "the enemy at
tacked with all his forces, our posl
tlons near Felahle. The battle lasted
six hours. The enemy at the begin
ning penetrated parts of our trenches
but Turkish troops killed all these en
emy forces with the bayonet.
"The remainder of the British troops
were driven off, suffering heavy losses.
In the Turkish trenches and before
them, were oounted 3,000 of the en
emy's dead."
ATHENS, April 12.—Greek news
papers announced today that the Ger
mans have begun an offensive move
ment on the Greek frontier, capturing
the Devetepefortifioations from the
allies.
A violent cannonade has been re-
Canton, sumed along the Lake Dolran-Ghevgh-
which prqbaJbly will be the capital of front, north of Salonika. The allied
the new republic with word that batteries apparently
Hunan, and Kwei-tChow provinces superior.
are about to declare their independ
enoe. The movement Is spreading to
all the provinces sooth, of the Yang
Tse Kiang river.
a
re numerically
LONDON, April 12v—The Swedish
steamer Murjek has been sunk by an
I explosion. The crew was saved.
The Murjek displaced 4,124 tons and
I was 351 feet long. he was built In
1913 and owned at Stockholm.
KEOKUK MEN
ELECTED TO OFFICE
M. Vogler as Grand Orator and
E. M. Majors as Grand Treas
urer of Royal Arcanum.
supreme council representative,!
Iw-
E-
McConnell, Council Bluffs
r^ent- J\R„Pri"'
attack on the east bank of the Meuse. £rand .,v£f regent t. W Eruplcie.
be­'
The Woman Mayor.
CHICAGO, April 12.—Tired of wait
ing for federal officers to come and yeiitlon.
stop the "dirty dozen" from sending
SSK? S, «S? grand regent".
between Document and Vaux. Of-| j. "A. Fairly, Des Moines grand sec
ficial dispatches today confirmed the retary. H. A. Snvder, Waterloo
reports that the •Qermans suffered, ^and
heavily in yesterday afternoon's at
1
treasurer, E. M. Majors, Keo-
kuk grand chaplain. H. C. Asthalter,
Muscatine grand guide, W. C. Ste
wart. Ottumwa grand warden, H. E.
Winn, Cedar Rapids grand sentry,
J. N. Skinner, Ottumwa.
Waterloo was given the 1917 con-
Good Time to Start.
CAIRO, 111.. April 12,-^VIrs. B. F.
Langworthy told the Illinois Congress
of Mothers here that they should
start drees reform on their children
at the age of two, instead of sixteen.
Davis' body was found by Mrs.' to the allied front in southern Serbia. several hundred children of New wrote in the name of Roosevelt on complete.
&-
Whatever course this government
determines upon, it will be decided
very soon—possibly at Friday's cabi
net meeting. It is understood on high
authority that the government is still
MUSCATINE, Iowa, April 12.—The
Royal Arcanum order, in state con
vention here today, announced the
election of the following state offl-, ..
cers: Representative to supreme coun-i ^fady °,E° „ht»ln a show
cil, G. A. Fairly, Des Moinee alter- diplomatic
^relationei to obtain a show
down on the whole submarine ques
tion.
Action, however, it was indicated
today, may take another course. Pres
ident Wilson may show his evidence
to Germany, suggesting that the dis
crepancies in the German and Amer
ican positions may be due to erro
neous reports of German "U boat com
manders, or to other reasons.
This government will then show it
is impossible for Germany to keep
up her present method of boat
warfare without continually Jeopardiz­
vestigate. Davis was then found Davis was educated at Lehigfh and for delegates had been broken, the1 badly split among the Thompson
lying on the floor beside the tele-, Johns Hopkins Universities. During only avowed Roosevelt candidate for Deneen and Brundage factions.
phone, dead. the Spanish-American war he was [delegate at large to the national con-
Davis was born in Philadelphia in correspondent in Cuba for the L/on-1 vention, John M. Harlan, had been
1S"64, and was fifty-two years old at! don Times and the New York Herald., defeated.
the time of his death. Beginning asj He won considerable prominence at Harlan who made his campaign for
a newspaper reporter, he attracted' that time through an altercation with Roosevelt throughout the state, wasjtional lines, Oklahoma democrats,
attention by his magazine writings General Shatter. 110,000 votes behind the eight win-j united in the waning moments of the
and some of his short stories werei (Davis also served as correspondent! ning delegates at large fearly today,! state convention here and unanimous
considered models of Bnglish liter-, in the Turkish-Greek, South African, with the vote of 3 6?5 out of 6,306J( lv elected Tom Ij. Wade of Marlow to
over the telephone when stricken, ature. A number of his works have'and Russo-Japanese wars and was! precincts In the state tabulated. be national committeeman. Ben N.
He died at 9:30 before medical aid• been dramatized. with the American troops at Vera Four uninstructed republican dele-j LaFayette, Marlow's opponent hlmsel!
could be summoned. The author was At the beginning of the war Davis Cruz during the American occupation I gates were elected. Two of them may (made the nomination during a hnsh
about his home throughout yesterday,! -went to Europe. 'He spent several of the Mexican port. be for Roosevelt. In the democratic! in the boisterous demonstration that
apparently feeling fairly well, thougn weeks abroad writing for newspapers! At the time of his marriage to Misa race, all of the delegates elected were marked the meeting. Twelve hundred
•he had been in poor health for two, and magazines and only recently re- MoCoy, Davis instead of the usual pledged to Wilson. delegates voted as a unit for Wade
weeks. turned from another trip, this time honeymoon, provided an outing fof Twlve thousand voters in Chicago (and the convention's harmony was
•v.. Ira&fffiii i- hnf'tfrrfftv
"^W^'vT'yTVK^ir •*. V?*. VW^*"
"WiCATHER
Fair and cooler. Local temp—
7 p. m. 75 7 a. m. 65. ••••$
REACH A DECISION
It is Expected President Wilson and Cabinet
Will Agree on Government's Course
at Friday's Meeting.
EVIDENCE ON HflHO IS NOT COMPLETE
Many Think Germany Has Embarked on New
Reign of Terror, Disregarding Rights
of Neutrals.
[By Robert J. Bender, United Prear
Staff Correspondent.]
WASHINGTON, April 12.—On the
eve of determining a course of ac
tion to pursue with Germany in the
dangerous situations arising out of
recent submarine activities in the
English channel, the question facing
President Wilson and his advisers to
day seems to bo:
"How far can we go with the evi
dence at hand?"
The president and his cabinet are
convinced a German submarine sank
the channel packet Sussex. They are
convinced German submarine com
manders have embarked on a new
reign of terror, in which the safety
and rights of neutrals are being dis
regarded with amazing abandon.
Bur conclusive proof -that a German
submarine sank the Sussex may be
lacking. The German official dis
claimer of all responsibility for the
explosion which wrecked the vessel
was expected today.
The belief that this government's
proof on the Sussex alone is not suffi
ciently strong to convince the world
of the unavoidabillty of severing dip
lomatic relations, administration offi
cials are centering attention on cumu
lative evidence regarding the new
general German boat campaign.
Evidence showing the wilful tor
pedoing and sinking of all kinds of
neutral vessels—Dutch, Norwegian,
Danish—in large numbers regardless
of warning, armament of anj*hing
else is at hand, it is said in volume
to prove the contention that Germany
is not living up to assurances.
•I'l'iiS'lli
•'. 'If
EIGHT PAGES mi
Great Britain contended she had
the right to seize these men though
they were not actually allied with
her enemy's fighting forces and that
in so doing sftie did not violate the
sovereignty of a neutral power.
The note held that the Trent case
in the civil war upon which the Unit
ed States based its protest against
"an unwarranted invasion of the
sovereignty of an American vessel on
the thigh seas," did not square with
the China situation.
The reply called attention to 'bomb
plots and other activities of Eng
land's enemies on neutral soil.
"From reliable Information receiv
ed it has been definitely established,"
said Sir Edward Grey's note, "that
the German residents in Shanghai
have been engaged for some time past
in the collection of arms and ammu-
(Continued on page 2.)
ROOSEVELT DELEGATE WAS
DEFEATED AT THE PRIMARIES
Democrats All for Wilson and
Republicans for Lawrence
Y. Sherman, in Illinois.
Democrats illl ior iisuu
the presidential primary ballot. Many
Among his well known novels were'of these were women. I^ess than a
"Soldiers of Fortune," "Gallagher and thousand wrote in the name of Jus
Other Stories," "A Year !From a Cor-jtice Hughes. Fairly complete figures
respondent's Note Book," "The King's' gave Lawrence Y. Sherman, the "fav
Jackall," "Captain Mackflin," "Ran-jorite son," 75,000 votes.
son's Folly,'* "The Bar Sinister," and In the democratic preferential pri
"Yarfc the Medium," I mat#, aerventy-tive Totem, of whom
IJafnftWjUSk&". jtMaS1
five were women, wrote in tihe name
of Champ Clark. Wilson, according
to
iatest available returns, polled
79,398 votes in Cook county.
Scattering returns from down-state
precincts are not expected to change
the result materially.
Roger Sullivan won control of the
democratic state organization. Early
CHICAGO, April 12.—Incomplete returns showed Carter Harrison,
returns in Illinois' preferential pri-, former mayor of -Chicago, defeated
mary election indicated today that|f0r delegate at large.
while lawrenco Y. Sherman slate| The republican state control i9
Oklahoma Democrat*.
OKLAHOMA CITY, Okla., April 12.
—Following a bitter fight along fac-
All Oklahoma congressmen and
Governor Williams were given un
a if el at to
the national convention were selected
with one-half a vote each. Oklahoma
delegates will have no proxies and
delegates are expected to vote a* a
unit.
iT 3?
M.
"v
#1
isi
,v,«
'i
ing American lives. Assurances of
her desire for continued friendship
can be shown. It could be pointed out:•••••
onlv by her willingness to take steps
that would render further strained.
relations as a result of submarine
warfare as Impossible.
There would be no "dickering" with
Germany, no long discussion, it is da- 7
Glared.
1
.%fp*
Message From Gerard.
BERLIN, April 12..—A lengthy per
sonal message from Ambassador
Gerard is accompanying the German
communication on the Sussex and al
lied oases to Washington.
Gerard forwarded tfhe statement
from the German foreign office at
noon yesterday.
The message lie »w«t with it is a
confidential report on the German at
titude.
England's 'Reply.
^WASHINGTON, April Iffi.—That
Germans seized from the American'
liner China, were engaged in un
neutral service and were shifting
their base of operations from, Shang
hai to Manila, is the contention of
Great Britain in her reply to this
government's protest against their
seizure from an American boat. This
was revealed by the state depart
ment today, making known the Brit
ish reply.
