HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
V m h.i 1 r T i -tiit" l.nivi Ka 1
t , ,, ,, c 4S', t.m Is Mill
rranH i i rrfii "''j Har f.Hw
ilUnlv A HiriH.n in''tloni G-
I I i t v "" '-& ,,fl ra'ns higher
lull firm st m Kh iTiRUlur
VXATIIER FORECAST.
TA rao and west Tmr, fair, colder;
"New Mexico and Arizona, fair, colder.
EL PASO. TEXAS. WEDNESDAY EVENING, APRIL 12, 1916
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COP FIVE CENTS.
DELIVERED ANTWHERE 60 CENTS A MONTH.
16 PAGES TODAY.
FOOD
PERSHI
erman
$MMM"HM IHil luBHsf m Hn ssH H Ml
FOR
J V CJ vEil 1 1 IytL.
RALLY
Heavy "Artillery Duels Being
Fought Along ihe Bans
Of the Medse River.
GAS DRIVES THE
DEFENDERS AWAY
When Germans Tae Aban
doned Trenches, French
Return, Relate Them.
PXR1S. France. April 12. The Ger
man assault on the Verdun front
west of the Meuse was renewed
this morning. -Troops aavanoen on
in ret tea wood, south of Cumleres, the
v ii office announced, using; flame pro
jniuis, but were repulsed.
J.ist of the Meuse in the Douau
iii it-Vatix sector there was only ar
lilii fighting.
The -war office says It has been con
i i mod that the German losses yester-
il.n tie rerv heavy.
Pin tot of the statement follows:
iin the left bank of the lleuae the
-)jrniana thi" morning delivered an
attack on our positions at the Cau- I,
nttes wood Between ut morie-iiorame
aim uinlires, in which they made use
of fi..nitQjc liquids. They were every
v V re rcp'ilsd
n tlir right bank of the river, there
has in in great artillery activity be
t i ii I 'ouiiinioni and Vajux.
Kncmy's Loss Is Henry.
It has been confirmed that the Vto
! n offensive action yesterday atUfi
n.iiTi at 4 odock Th this sector was
id'ui'Kl by us and coat the enemy
lie-i1 losses
J I e night passed relatively quiet
01 tlii" remainder of the trout."
V lule bringing up reinXoTcetneats to
kj-c'jine thrir attack on Le Morte
11. mine, the hill of death," the Ger
iii in. .ire trying to recover the ground
rikdiiud by the French in Callette'
w nods end to the north between Dou
ininiunt and Vaux. The French posi-
-m i q there describe an arc from a i
pi ii vi.n'h of the fort or uouaumont
to the ..liter of the village of Vaux.
.in i tlie front is a little less than two
mile in length.
Three Dais' Heavy Flclitlnir.
T"oi thiee days the onlr actions on
;.,f r,,K hank of the Meuse have been
. tnti red there with the habitual prep
.irdtinn in heavily concentrated artil-
lr fire with a finishing touch of
I Ii. t shilling and (fas projectiles.
fier a bombardment with hish ex-
pl..i. lasting eight hours and the
i i r c.n for another hour or two.
th innnaiis would attack simultaoe
o i-l . n two flanks. There was no
r i i diminution in their courage and
!.!! i.eitner did the French show
: . 'lithie.t fatigue and the conse
iini, i. that the unprecedented car
i of the battle of Verdun goes on.
f,rrmat Mint lleatrn Hack,
Tc-iinlav the whole front, beaten
l -ip jmijeetlles, was overhung by
b .iiom.i cloud of chlorine vapor
I w I i li f cined to be suspended from
tli. iy When the cloud lifted, the
i i Tin int bounded forward, seemingly
i iinffcnnt to the thick death dealing
' itj.ni f fire from the French artll-
1cm M.me of them got through it,
bur . nh to find that the French had
..I mi'ii-ifii the first line trenches to
all i the k"a cloud to dissipate.
-i rman reinforcements were sent up
to f infi the trenches, but before they
ii nhed the line, the French came
!.. K. tilth an irresistible counter at
i 1 mil In a few minutes drove out
tl . i.ciinan from the few points
. i 'e th, . had penetrated the
I ' h. h .
Germans Clslm Gains.
Peril n lipimsnv. Anril 1. (Via
! A Tl
ti.1t. 1 uk i -German troops in the
. i it nun ncHinet Verdun yesterday
ni'i urn K-round in Calllette woods,
i'l. f Kort Iiouaumont, accord
r t il . officii! statement today by
r n headquarter!!.
ON GREEK UKE
Ti ! I nine. April 12. Reicumption
of ioi, in rannonading along the Greek
fi outlet 'iear Gievghell and Doiran is
i'1'p.rtcd in a dispatch from Salomki to
tin Ii.urn.il It is said that the French
artlllet had the advantage. It is also
iipmted that the Germanic allies cap
tured ihe fortified position at Deve
Tepe but this has not been confirmed.
.BRITISH STAMPTAX ON MATCHES
v IS "PUT OYER" WITHOUT FIGHT
I oi di, n, l.ng. April 12 Difficulties
in i miiection with the imposition of
1 1 i n ill h tax hae been overcome and
'in in iMiifac turers have withdrawn
tiiir opposition to the measure They
liixe .iM-uii-d Itexinald McKenna,
' u.ei.ir of the exchequer, that they
vill , mm him in raising th revenue.
I nuii the new taxation plan pro
! .! mauhes are taxed 4d per 1000,
c lin'i i chtlmrted to produce revenue
' I oil' liu ooo.uon
IT
When T. R. Gets In His "Heroic Mood" Will
LLlMILITIA MAY BE C ALLE
GALICIA. TCE1ETER1 IF GERMANS. I
ROSSIANSiUSTRlS, HUNGARiANS
Only Graves Greet the Visitor Who Now Passes Over the
Scenes of the Early Days of the Great War; Przemysl
is Again Itself, Lemberg is Again Gay, Con
trasting With Scenes of Few Months Ago.
111" ITKIlATItlAI. XEWS
T!IK IIAGUK, Holland, April 12.
Lemberg and Przemysl how long
It seems since our thoughts were
concentrated on those two Galician
towns! In reality, it Is but a few short
months. To ride from Lemberg to
Przemysl today Is to ride through one
huge, vast churchyard. Wherever you
look you see graves. There they are
in Ions rows by the railway graves of
the men who defended the railway line.
There they lie in groups in the wil
derness! On some arc transfixed a small gray
cap or Germaji helmet, already rotting.
On others the rough wooden crosses are
sinking Into the ground, as though they
know the plow would soon be there.
Sometimes you see huge graves from
which many colored regimental flags
wave vigorously above the pitiful land
scape. It is almost as if someone were
laughing in the grave below. The only
break in this terrible churchyard is
formed by some blackened, tumbled
ground, once a village.
Such is the country over which the
fury of war has raged three times.
Only the cities liaTe been spared, and
have recuperated with a speed which
would seem almost impossible. Lem
berg Is as gay and 'jusy as ever,
Priemyal is once more the peaceful
provincial town of peace days: The
streets are clean, the hotels are ade
quate and the shop -windows are full.
Chickens. MO Kach.
1 stood gating nto the well filled
windows of a confectioner. And the
thought came to me: "What were
these windows like a year ago"' A jear
sgo horse-fillet was the best that riches
could buy, and only very occasionally
a countryman crept Into the town to
pell a cMeken. for which S10 were
ljjja41iurten. Winter, clothes were not
io oe dm uicu uki rjGB men iu uui
hesitate to walk the streets wrapped in
some woman's castoff mantle.
In this -nar, forts hiive fallen like
ninepins. To Erxemysl alone has fallen
the honor of a long siege. To the gar
rison fell hardships which the siejre of
Paris did not know. In the dead of
winter there was not a window in the
town and no glass could be had. The h
IIITISI JUSTIFY
Assert That Plotters Taken
Off Were About to Com
promise the TJ. S.
Washington. D. C, April 12. Great
Britain's note replying to the American
protests against the seizure of 38 Aus
trians, Germans and Turks from the
American steamer China, near Shang
hai, was made public today by the
state department.
It contends that the seizure was
-justified on the ground that the pris
oners had engaged In plots against
Great Britain and the far east and
wert attempting to return home to
take up arms. ,
Were Compromlalng U. S.
Great Britain alleges that the pris
oner were "engaged for some time
In the collection and transmission of
arms and ammunition for clandestine
tiansmlsslon to India and, if possible,
are arming a ship to play the part or
a far eastern Moewe." The neutral
ity of the United States would have
been compromised, the note contends,
hac: the prisoners performed the sets
they contemplated.
Their acts, it Is contended, deprived
them of protection of the American
flag, under which they were sailing.
The British government argues that
the removals were -Justified and trusts
tat the United States will not feel
further disposed to contend the action.
Incident Xot Cloned.
Secretary Lansing announced late to
day that Great Britain's note on the
seizure of 38 Austrlans,, Germans anil
Turks from the American steamer
China near Shanghai does not close
...v mm; iu me BaiiBiiiciion ui cue
fLnited States
Tiilimilln'x Mnkliig.
A confidential report on the sinking
of the Tubantia was received today by
the state department, but officials re
fused to make it public or give any
indications of Its nature.
BRITISH LOSE 3000 MEN
IN MES0P0TAMIAN BATTLE
Berlin, Germany, April 12. (By Wire
less to Sayville, L. I.) a British Meso
potamlan force, composed of troops
transferred from the Dardanelles, were
repulsed by Turkish troops In a san
guinary battle lasting six hours near
Felahie on April 9, according to a
Turkish headquarters report dated April
11. The statement adds that more than
SOOO dead British were counted after
the battle
FRENCH SHIP PERMITTED JO
CLEAR; GUNS FOR DEFENCE
Washington, D C. April 12. France
has assured the United States that guns
aboard the liners Vulvain and lone nt
New York will not be used for of
fensive tlliriMMM nntl cnllMtnr Malone
today was instructed to clear the shirs 1
1
SEIIVICE COKPOriATIOX.
bombs of Tlusslan aviators had broken
them all Horses were fed on wood
pulp soaked In sweetened water. Some
of the animals throve on it. others lay
down to die.
The One Meeting Ground.
In the Cafe Stieber you can listen for
hours to such details as these. Do not
think the house of Stieber is an ordi
nary cafe. Its history is the history of
Przemysl. Long before Przemysl was
first threatened, this cafe was the great
Eroscenium df the war. The battle of
emberg, the battle of Grodek, and'a
hundred other battles, lights and skir
mishes took place within hearing. Al
most the whole Austro-IIungarian
army passed the windows of the cafe
on then- way east to fight the Russians.
And later, during the first ami second
sieges, Cafe Stieber was the center of
this town. No one wanted to stay at
home with his own dismal thoughts;
guests could not be received; gas there
was none and petroleum must be used
eparingly.
The best thing to do, therefore, was
to stick your two lumps of sugar in
our pocket and grope through the
streets to Cafe Stieber. And then there
was always something to read there.
In the beginning there was even from
time, to time a real newspaper brought
by an aviator. Later there was only
the war bulletin, which was slowly
reduced from ordinary white paper to
the backs of paper bags and finally to
the baclts of menu cards.
$50 for 100 Cigaretl.
Last of all, there was only one copy
and that was on view In toe Cafe Stie
ber. In Jhe last Weeks of the siege
any hit vt paper in the street was
eagerly picked up and usetFav a, cigart
paper. .
.Nor wjiSJWDacco any mojtMiiijHL
February. ISli. 350 was
i Qjzcreo
for 16
cigarels of poor quality. The offer was
refused with contempt.
And if you had tobaeco and cigarets
you could not smoke them where you
would. For that ou had to go to Cafe
Stieber. There a huge log fire burned
night and da. for of wood there waB
plenty, but matches were precious in
deed. The soldiers in the trenches got
two matches a dai for fip men.
1KINC 9 SHIPS
Claim Were Sunk Under the
Rules of War; Sussex Not
a German Victim.
Berlin. Ger.. April 12. (By wireless,
to Sayville, L. I.J The German reply
to the American note concerning the
damaging or sinking of five steam
ships contains the statement that the
steamers Bnglishman, Eagle Point,
Manchester Engineer and Berwinvale
were destroyed by Gerrnan submarines
Evidence Is presented to show that
these vessels were torpedoed legally in
accordance with the rules of war.
The note states that a German sub
marine torpedoed a steamship in the
vicinity of the place at which the cross
channel steamship Sussex was dam
aged by an explosion, but that evi
dence at hand indicates that the ves
sel torpedoed by the submarine was
not the Sussex.
lltint Torpedoed :ot the Sunnex.
In regard to the Sussex, the noto
states that onlv one German submarine
was in the vicinity and that It torpe
doed one steamship. The commander of
the submarine made a sketch at the
time. This sketch has been compared
with the photograph of the Sussex, and
has been found to be quite dissimilar
in build and arrangement of stacks
Therefore, it Is presumed a mine was
responsible for the damage of the Sus
sex In the way of corroboration, it is
stated that German naval forces -Ie-troyed
26 floating mines on that day.
Clnlm lVnrnlngn yt:len.
Regarding the cases of the English
man. Manchester Engineer, Eagle Point
and Berwindvale, It Is stated they were
signaled to halt but disregarded tho
signals. Thereupon warning shots were
fired.
The statement is made that the sub
marine commanders assured, themselves
before sinking the ships tlint their de
struction was justified and that the
-crews were safely in boats.
Sn)H Sllnc Responsible.
A -Swiss passenger on the Sussex as
serted to the Associated Press he is
convinced a mine was responsible and
that he so stated after the disaster. In
vestigating officers, he said, "bully
ragged" him Into changing his State
ment, which he now repudiates.
Note Fnlls to Come.
.Washington. D. C. April 12 As the
state department was closing for the
sy no word had been received from
ambassador Gerard and the German
note was not In sight. It may be re
ceived during the ,iight or tomorrow.
HOLLAND COUNCIL REPORTS
ON SINKING OF TWO SHIPS
Amsterdam. Holland, April 12. Via
London, Lng. The Dutch shipping
council, which was entrusted by tho
government with the official Investi-
(Contlnuea on pace S, Get, 2)
niniiTS
PERSHING MIGHT
TAKE REGULARS
TD
More Tro'ops Required
In Mexico For Service,
Militia Necessary.
WOULD GUARD THE
TOWNS ON BORDER
Gen. Funslon Has But Few
More Troops He Can
Spare For Mexico.
SAN.
for
is :
AN ANTONIO. Tex., April 12. A call
for the militia of some of the states
possible at an early dato unless
Gen. Pershing Is able to effect the cap
ture of Villa and pull out of Mexico, It
Is admitted at the headquarters of Gen.
Frederick Funston.
Gen. Funston announced today that
a change would be mado soon that
would affect the long line of communt
catlos between Columbus and Gen.
Pershing's advanced forces. He de
clined to state what the change would
be, but it was assumed that It had been
decided either to reinforce the line ma
terially or shift It to a shorter route,
probably to OjMags.
A.,BlB.Tak.
Army officers here have regarded
with apprehension tho stretching of
the line of communications and it has
been untlemtoed that Its maintenance
thl Iakct .ts twn rlHA tn thn hone
tbat-CalMaiis&AUUiQUeoiUdsttrar
tWtrjMrt-to BffflVWfflr the-Mnreaas
between Kl Paao and cninuanua. uity.
If Oe plan is to shift the line to a
shorter route. It involves great diffi
culties and some danger to the ad
vanced detachments. It was pointed
out that the removal of thousands of
men now stationed between Columbus
and featevo must be accomplished either
by moving them toward the east or by
returniift them to the United States
and moving them to the new border
base.
Until the line could be reestablished,
the cavalry columns now operating in
the neighborhood of Parral would have
to depend upon their own resources.
1'rrnhlng ?ceds More Men.
Headquarters' officials are frank In
their expressions of amazement that
Gen. Pershing has gone as far as he has
wun tne forces ne has, anu almost
hourlv have expected word from him
that he dare not send further Into
&SS SgTf't-rbr!
unless more men for the extension of
the line of communication are pro
vided. o More llegulnrs.
If it is decided to send In more
troops, officers at Fort Sam Houston
said it would be necessary, or at least
advisable, to bring other troops to sta.
tions along the international boundary
before sending into Mexico any of those
already in Texas.
. Gen Pershing now has something
less than 12,000 men and along the bor
der there are something more than 18,
000. Gen. Funston does not consider
it wise to remove any of those now on
duty along the border unless their
places are taken by others. There are
only about 4000 other available, it is
said, but if it is decided to reinforce
Gen. Pershing's army, it i3 believed
probable that Gen. Funston will ask for
militia organizations to replace those
he will send across 'he border.
The War At a Glance
r
N Caurettes wpods, -Just west of
the Meuse, another attempt to
break the French line defend
ing Verdun was made this morn
ing by German troops. The offi
cial communication from Paris
says that the attack was repulsed.
The official rep -i of ti-Jay from
Berlin says German ttoops yefcter
c.tpv gained some ground In Call
lette wood, sojthcast of Fort Dim
Ttimont and that t e"eral French at
tacks broke down, with heavy
losses.
After a winter of Inactivity along
the Greek frontier, fighting is now
under Way, although apparently it
is still confined principally to ar
tillery. An unconfirmed report
from Saloniki tells of the capture
of a fortified position by the Ger
. manic allies, but so far as Is in
dicated no large bodies of Infantry
haxe been- engaged.
The destruction of British ship
ping, which Is causing concern in
England." continues. The Senator,
a new British 3S00 ton steamship,
has been sent to the bottom. The
ciew is 'believed to have been res
cued Official investigation of the
smklng of the Dutch steamships
Tubantia, and Palembang has re
sulted In a finding that both wero
tcipedoed.
The latest effort of the British
forces in Mesopotamia to reach' the
troops besieged at Kut-el-Amara
is -said by the Turkish war office,
to have cost them heavy losses.
It is stated that more than 30.00
British dead were counted after
the battle, which, according to a
preious official British communi
cation, occurred at Sannayyat, on
the Tigris, below Kut-el-Amai'a.
I
TODDcD ,. ...,
HUMID HARDING DAVIS IS DEI ' ""
jpspaffiiiit. isyniffreTrsaaBTO.iilKWIWW 1 3 I 8 I 8 Tir
1 H.sMfflB'r- - ' -V'CNf I '
SKIiiiHai . ' : m 1
I WE3irWJlasBBBHssssssm. 1 ? - 5:-1 (fi
9 BBBBBBBBflBBSIKinEiiSlBaSHHBp - '' - '"'"ft'lr' B
HICHAXD HARDING DAVIS
i a ji .'iiir ..-. a . : 1 1 w jcnui.'ii. !-33
MOUNT KISCO. J. Y., April 12. Kiehard Harding Davis, author and war
correspondent, died at his home here last 'night from head trouble. His
body was found early this morning and he had apparently been stricken
while at his telephone.
Mr. Davis went into his library to dictate a telegram to a frid in New York
city. His wife assumed, wheB he did not return, that be had seated himself to
read -and did not visit the library until after midnight.
3Ir. Davis had been in failing health for some time and had sought quiet at
his country place, Cross Itoads farm, under the care of his wife, who was Bessie
McCoy, the actress.
Mr. Davis began life as a Xew York reporter, became famous as a war corre
spondent in Central America and Cuba, and then embarked into the field of fietion,
-.vhere he won laurels and a fortune. His "A''Soldier of Fortune,", one of his most
successful books, was dramatized and made a big hit on the stage. He was re
cently in Europe for a syndicate of newspapers covering the- big European war.
He also covered the Russo-Japaneso war and the Jap-Chinese war for newspaper
syndicates. His short stories have been among the most popular in America.
Kiehard Harding Davis was born in Philadelphia, jn 1864. He began news
paper work with the Philadelphia Press, and later served on the New York
Evening Sun.
In 1899 Mr. Davis married Cecile Clark, daughter of T. M. Clark, of Chicago,
and was duorced by her in 1912. A few days later Mr. Davis married Miss
McCoy, who was the famous Yania ama girl m a popular musical comedy. A
daughter, Hope Dai3, was born.
Hemes tdshiletters
Senate Calls For Correspon
dence Daniels Hissed;
Wilson Assailed.
Washington. D. O. April 12 Secre
tary Daniels's refusal to permit rear
admiral Fiske to read a paper before
the Navy League convention here to
day stirred up a wave of denunciation
of the secretary in the meeting and
drew hisses from one part of the lialL
The admiral's paper, previously pub
lished In the Naval Institute, an offi
cial publication of the navy war col
lege, was read by William Mather Lew
is, of Lake Forest, III., w hile the meet
ing cheered.
Calls It nrriT len.
Col. Kobert M. Thompson, president
of the league, read a letter frohi sec
retary Daniels denying a request that
the admiral read a paper and de
clared: "I desire to express nw-sorrow that
the navy department sffould take this
narrow view, so strongly in conflict
with that taken by the war depart
ment. This question involves the con
stitutional right of free speech that an
officer of fifty years' service, acknowl
edged as one of the leaders of his pro
fession, should be denied the right to
say that two and two make four."
Criticise. Wilson.
Col. Thompson's mention of secretary
Daniels's name brought hisses. Henry
Rueterdahl, of New iork. attacked
tTelecrelary POMtTon and KeuterdaM
declared that "the wholesale nagglntr
of navy officers does not come origi-
nally from the navy department, but
originally from the White House."
Sepretary Daniels's letter gave as a
reason for his position, the attitude
that it would be better for civilians to
thednavy an?dhVor0thehnava1iao!fTcee'rs to
continue an unbroken policy of not
trying to influence legislation
"If any here wants to defend the
secretary's position, let him arise."
shouted Beuterdahl. No one arose to
the defence of the secretary.
hennte Tnle If I p.
The controversy between secretary
Daniels and admiral Fiske, who was
former aide for operations, took a new
W. W. Be "Too Proud
AmTBABY DAUGHTER.
turn today when the senate adopted,
without discussion, a resolution by sen
ator Lodge calling for correspondence
which Mr. Daniels declined to produce
before the house committee during
hearings on the naval appropriation
MIL
The resolution describes the letters as
written to the secretary in November.
1914, one by the general board and one
by admiral Fiske. Thev are declared
to contain warnings of the unreadiness
of the navy for war.
Refuses the Letters.
Before the house committee the sec
retary was asked if he had not received
such letters, following his statement
that his difference with admiral Fiske
had not arisen over any preparedness
issue. He said communications with
the general board were confidential,
and would not produce the letter.
He argued that if he knew members
of the board were discussing thess
pnnfidential matters outside the depart
ment he would take steps to change
its personnel. Admiral Fiske told the
same committee he had resigned as aid
for operations because he differed with
(Continued on pajte 5, Col. 5.)
By GEO. H.
-, -r , , -r. ...
AMERICAN TROOPSBEFEATillTS
j -j-iiiiLU iteaunuariers lunttne ijtpedition, eouui oi -amiquipa, cipui
I H J-"0"1! "& troops K.
I unusu wiiii nuisias souin oi nere
I tured 35.
Eight Yillistas wounded in the Columbus fight were found, two who could
not be moved.
Six others were taken to camp to be returned to Columbus.
Senuts rettirnintr from Santa CInm vnllev rhv Pablo Lopez, ilia's second
' na.id wounded at Columbus, has
I1U1ICU CJIB UhlCl BIIU 19 IJUtT I ICllIlg Willi U1S UCCUU CJl UU.
-Among the prisoners taken in the last few days was Gen. Juan Gutierrez,
betrayed by a man whose wife he had stolen in the American raid.
Among the horses picked up by the scouts was the animal ridden by Arthur
McKenney when captured and executed at Bocas Grandes. The horse bore the
brand of the Palomas Cattle company, and was so badly worn out by hard riding
that it was left where found. The condition of the horse indicated the haste ot
the ViUi&la raiders to avoid pursuit.
American Consul At City of
Chihuahua To Expedite
Shipments To Army.
TROUBLE FEARED
ON WEST COAST
Carranza Garrisons Threat
ened Villa's Death Ds-
counted in Washington.
WASHINGTON, D. C April
ls- Gen. Obregon, Cerran
zo's minister of Tfnr, noti
fied the embassy here today that
advices from Gen. Lni, OnHerrez,
n Chihuahua, say that Villa has
Iot most of his followers.
Ttiinnded In the battle of Clrne
gnllla, and has gone to the moun
tains. Ileperts that the Arrleta broth
ers at DuranRo will unite with the
bandit leader Ttere denied.
The state of Oaxaca Trnw'reportrd
quiet Ttitli commercial and lnda-
trlst conditions TrulorrA nnnr
- mab A Felix Diaz re-volution Trim
recently reported there.
WASHINGTON, X. C April 12
Reports of a battle between
troopers of the seventh cavalry
and Villa bandits south of Namlquipa
were not mentioned in the war depart
ment's early dispatches today and there
was no further mention of the reported
death of Villa.
MaJ. Gen. Funston reported the prog
ress of a new plan for sending Supplies
forward to Brig. Gen. Pershing's col
umns. A trial shipment of forage has
been sent over the Mexican Central line,
which has a more direct route to Chi
huahua than the Mexico North West
ern, which heretofore has carried some
shipments. Nine cars of hay and oats
for the cavalrycompose the shipment.
"If this shipment is successful," Gen
Funston reported, "other large ones will
follow. It is hoped the shipment will
reach Gen. Pershing through the Ameri
can consul at Chihuahua."
Trouble Feared nt Mazatlan.
Conditions on the west coast, particu
larly In the vicinity of Mazatlan. an
causing officials here considerable
anxiety.
A dispatch today from the supply sb 1 1
Glacier, off Mazatlan. said there was i
feeling of hostility developing against
Carranza officials there which might
precipitate trouble. Natives In the out
lying districts around Mazatlan weie
said to be threatening the de facto
government forces but so far no demons
tration has been made.
Consular officers at Mazatlan and
nearby points are advising Americans
to return to the United States.
Humors of Vllln.
Rumor from several sources that Villa
had died of blood poisoning and press
dispatches from Queretaro telling of an
announcement by the de facto govern
ment's war department that it had rea
son to believe the bandit chief had
been killed in action were the occasion
of much discussion here.
At the state and war departments it
was admitted that Villa's exact loca
tion was not known.
Gen. Funston telegraphed that "sat
isfactory conferences" had been held by
Gen. Pershing with Gen. Herrera and
Gen. Gutierrez.
The quartermaster general received
a dispatch from Gen. Funston's quarter
master at Fort Sam Houston, saying
that Gen. Pershing asks for some funds
in Mexican silver for disbursements
where American money cannot be suc
cessfully used. .
Uu)lng Supplies derywherr.
"Have instructed quartermasters to
procure supplies without limit, no niat
(Contlnued on page 4. CoL 5.)
CLEMENTS.
.... ... , , - c : 11 A
and M Seventh cavalry, taJ in a
anu mat iney kurai a uuiuto m -r
so nearly recovered that he has abau-
To Fight"?
