Beox»
jf-
VOLUME XXXVII.
URGELOWERING OF
INSURANCE RATES
OWNERS OF PROPERTY SHOULD
UNITE TO BRING DESIRED
RESULTS
PROPOSE RE-RATING OF CITY
ACCORDING TO LOSSES
SUSTAINED
Tlmt frequent fires are conducive to
better -and greater returns for the stock
holders of the fire insurance companies
is the opinion expressed in circulars sent
out by the Property Owners' Federation
of Iowa and Minnesota, formed for the
purpose of reducing the rates charged
JOT fire insurance premiums. It does
not follow, however, that cities or towns,
"where fires are infrequent and the losses
small, enjoy a lower rate than the rest
of the country and it seems that rates
are only reduced when organized effort
on the part of the insured make a re
rating imperative. Tricks of the trade
always enter into the rating of a risk.
A cent added here and there for some
alleged special hazard, a condition or
situation of the building or its contents,
all enter into the rate-making problem
until the insured is confronted by a maze
of statistical figures that make his head
swim and he submits to almost any rate
quoted in disgust.
Distance from other structures is
always one of the first things considered
by the insurance companies, then come
the inflammable character of the -con
tents, the safety appliances provided
against fire, the time the building
actually is occupied, etc.
People who are informed on the subject
are of the opinion that New Ulm -should
not only have a re-rating of fire insurance
rates, but would get it if any kind of an
organized effort were made that
direction. It is urged that a branch of
the Property Owners' Federation be
formed in this city unless the Commercial
Club makes a serious and deteMirined
effort in the matter.
A recently issued bulletin of the
federation says:
"The Federation has established in
dependent rating bureaus covering the
organized towns in Minnesota and Iowa,
reducing the present fire insurance rates
about one-fifth, haying made .arrange-.
i&ettfcs -with •^man%ar*mmcgalfig*'"coni-T
panies to carry the risks at the reduced
rate fixed by the Federation Bureau. In
future years, the rates of the organized
towns will be fixed according to their
own losses. So that if the insuring public
will crystallize a strong sentiment .against
incendiarism and treat the fire bug as
we do the horse thief, safe eraeker, or
any other robber, also abating dangerous
conditions as far as possible, we will soon
reduce the cost of fire insurance to a
satisfactory minimum in the associated
towns.
"The insurance companies employed
in this federation campaign, both "Stock"
and "Mutual" are licensed by, and under
the supervision of the State Insurance
Department. But the federation man
agement favors the "Mutual" companies
as mutual policy holders represent a
vital force of local self interest that is
constantly on guard against fires. Fur
thermore, the "fire bug" usually selects
a stock company that has no local
friends so that the jury is most likely to
conjure a verdict against the company.
These conditions, and also that "Mutual"
companies avoid the company-killing
conflagrations of the large city congested
districts, pave the way to large fire tax
reductions for "Mutual" policy holders.
"The cost of fire insurance for the
smaller cities and towns is in their own
hands, but it requires conservative,
vigorous activity on the part of the fire
tax payers in order to secure early and
most favorable results." As actuary
of the New York legislative committee,
Professor Whitney showed that while
in 1909, the profits of the six largest
American companies had averaged 18.4
per cent in 1908, when the fire loss had
been greater by $35,000,000, their
profits had averaged 2,6.2 per cent. Over
insurance is a large factor in the pro
pagation of "The Red Plague." Over
insurance increases agents' commissions,
and commissions are never .consumed in
the fire. The Albert Lea Tribune, in a
recent editorial under the caption of
"Our Criminal Ash Heap" brings this
burning question forcibly mto the lime
light as follows:
"The annual fire waste in this country
amounts to about one quarter of a billion
dollars, and a large part of this tremend
ous waste, probably more than half,
is due to incendiansm for gain. For this
unruly state of affairs, public sentiment
is largely to blame. When suspicious
looking fires occur, the popular feeling,
often expressed, is "The insurance com
panies should worry. We have paid
them enough let them pay their losses."
A common expression is often heard even
among hard-headed business men—
"another fellow selling out to the in
surance companies." This is a mis
nomer. He is not selling out to the in
surance companies. The fire bug simply
robs the fire tax payers.
Recently a juror, who with his fellow
jurymen had voted to acquit a firebug,
told a deputy fire marshal, "We knew he
was guilty, but if we convicted him, how
could he collect his insurance?" What
a commentary on common sense and
justice!
Lay a hard and fast hold on this fund
amental fact—insurance companies only
collect and distribute the fire tax, and the
stockholders of these companies are
bound to make a profit. The public
Eomeall
ays the fire losses hammer this fact
whenever the fire waste is under
discussion!
Public sentiment should be so strongly
crystallized against incendiarism that
the state fire marshal could have the
active co-operation of every property
owner and the courts, in order to bring
the firebugs to justice.
The main thing that directly concerns
the fire tax payers is the reduction of the
fire waste, and abolishing as far as
possible the "criminal ash heap." The
fire tax can be reduced accordingly and
very readily in the smaller cities and
towns."
PROF. V. M. O'SHEA
Lecturer on Child Study and Training
CAMBRIA FARMER
DROWNS IN RIYER
ATTEMPTS TO CROSS FLOODED
APPROACH TO BRIDGE WITH
TEAM.
HORSES BECOME FRIGHTENED
PRECIPITATE OUTFIT INTO
ICY WATERS.
("=*.~**jlfct*«f#
Another case of drowning was added
to the list of Minnesota river victims
last Saturday evening shortly before 7
o'clock when John C. Walters, a farmer
residing about two and one-half miles
southeast of Cambria lost his life in the
icy flood near the Courtland bridge.
According to eye witnesses of the ac
cident it was due to an unruly team of
horses, which also were drowned.
"Walters and several others had been to
Courtland last Saturday afternoon to
lay in their weekly supply of provisions
and left the village shortly after 6
o'clock. The approach to the Courtland
bridge is covered with several feet of
water, but had been crossed by many of
the farmers of the vicinity of Cambria
during the past week and everything
seemed petfectly safe. Leo Reed, a
young fellow living near Cambria, also
had been to town and was riding horse
back. When the party arrived at the
bridge approach Reed led the way and
was followed by Walters with his team.
Another farmer by the name of Wagner
brought up the rear. When Walters
bad reached a point about 100 feet from
the solid road, one of the horses reared
suddenly, evidently frightened by some
object floating in £he water. When it
tried to regain its leet it slipped off the
lower side of the grade, pulled the other
horse with it and tipped the rig over.
Walters shouted and jumped.
On account of the strong current and
no means to reach the. .drowning man,
no attempt could be made to bring him
to shore by his companions. They
shouted to him to swim towards a bunch
of willows and to hang on until they
could either get a boat or float a rope
down to him. Walters cafied back to
them that he was all right and began to
swim downstream, towards a £ump of
bushes. He had not gone more than
about 100 feet, when he was seen to
throw up both hands and sink /rom
view. The horses and wagon also had
disappeared in the meantime.
Young Reed at once rode to Cambria
and another party went to Courtland
and within a few minutes hundreds of
people from both villages were at the
bank of the river and boats were secured
and the search for the body started.
Fish spears, grappling hooks and fire
hooks were brought down, but it was not
until nearly 11 o'clock Sunday morning
that the body was located by Jens
Knutsen, who was dragging a fire hook
from the rear of his boat.
Although there seemed to be no
question that the drowning was absolute
ly accidental, the authorities thought it
best to make a thorough investigation
and accordingly an inquest was held
Monday forenoon at Courtland. The
coroner of Nicollet county, J. F. Merritt,
Sheriff Olson and County Attorney Geo.
T. Olson, all of St. Peter, arrived upon
the scene Sunday afternoon and ifn
paneled a jury, which on Monday fore
noon returned a verdict of accidental
drowning, without laying the blame in
any manner. It was thought at first
that the condition of the road at that
point would come in for criticism by the
county officials and the jury.
The victim of the accident is a farmer
residing near Cambria and has lived in
that vicinity for a number of years. He
was about forty years of age, was married
and besides the grief-stricken widow
leaves four small children. Funeral
services will be held today from the late
home of the deceased and interment will
be made at the Cambria cemetery.^
-i
'TWILIGHTSLEEP' IS
CENSORED BYMAYOR
CLAIMS PICTURES ARE UNFIT TO
BE SEEN BY PEOPLE OF
NEW ULM.
ARMORY BOARD WILL SEEK TO
RECOVER HEAVY DAMAGES
FROM CITY.
Mayor L. A. Fritsche used his power
and prerogative as chief executive of the
city of New Ulm last Friday afternoon
when he put his foot down on a moving
picture to be shown at the Armory, en
titled "Twilight Sleep" showing a method
now coming mto general use in confine
ment cases. The film, accompanied by
a lecture, was to be shown to an audience
of ladies in the afternoon and evening
and at 9 o'clock to men. Quite a num
ber of ladies had appeared at the Armory
for the afternoon production, but were
turned away after the Mayor had refused
to give his consent to a showing of the
picture even free of charge.
Later in the afternoon, however, the
film was run off at a private exhibition
attended by newspapermen and members
of the Armory board. It was the general
concensus of opinion that the films do
not contain anything of an immoral
character, but it was also agreed that
the attempt to show the pictures to an
audience composed entirely of men was
ill advised. The lecture, which is said
to be very educational was not given at
the private exhibition.
As soon as it became generally known
that the showing of the films had been
prohibited by the Mayor, that official
came in for a good deal of criticism,
especially from the women who had
planned to attend the lecture and see the
pictures. Many of them felt that they
were as good judges of what they should
know and see as the Mayor and they
voiced their opinions in no uncertain
terms.
The lady lecturer who accompanied
the films stated to a representative of
the Review that the federation of women
who hav& charge of the showing of the
pictures in the state of Minnesota would
not pass up the action of the Mayor, but
would start legal proceedings at once to
recover damages and later show the
picturesjn NewJJSOL & thefe cgseJs, sus.
tained by the courts.
authority given him under ordinance No.
3 of the City of New Ulm, which pro-
vides
thagranshall
it
of the ordinance.
CHILD STUDY AND
CONVENTION
A three half-day School of Methods
is one of the strong features of the Con
vention. On Thursday, Friday and
Saturday of the Convention a School
of Methods of four divisions will be con
ducted- Elementary for teachers of
children under 12 years of age, Secon
dary for teachers of boys and girls be
tween 13 and 20 years of age, Adult for
teachers of Men and Women's Bible
Classes and Administrative for Pastors
Superintendents and all officers of the
Sunday school. Experts have been
secured as instructors for each of these
Divisions.
The business end of the Sunday School
has always been neglected in a large
majority of the Sunday Schools of our
State. This year there is a treat in store
for the Administrative officers of our
schools at the State Convention. Mr
N. McEntire of Topeka, Kansas has'
been secured to give four lectures on the
Business End of the Sunday School
Mr McEntire is strictly a business
man, a manufacturer of Topeka, Kansas
and he is secretary of a large Sunday
School. He has placed his Sunday
school on a business basis. It will be
worth any Sunday School officer's time
and money to hear Mr. McEntire. Sun
day Schools could make no better in
vestment than to pay railroad fare and
registration of their Sunday school
Secretary and send him to the State Con
vention.
Andrew Daley has been transferred
from Zumbrota to the Redwood Branch
and will be located at Sleepy Eye for a
time. He was in town for a few days the
past week.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, A^RIL 12, 1916.
DESCRIBES HAVOC
WROUGHT BY WAR
VAST SEA OF GRAVES SIGHT ON
BATTLEFIELDS NEVER TO BE
FORGOTTEN.
HATE GIVES WAY TO RESPECT
AND ADMIRATION ON BOTH
SIDES.
That the present great war of Europe
will be the last in the civilized world is
the opinion of E. J. D. Larson, war
correspondent, who last summer visited
the war zone and spent several months
with the men in the trenches and as long
a period with the French people, making
an investigation of the conditions now
prevalent in that country. He gave an
illustrated lecture at the Armory last
Thursday evening and brought the
horrors of the war to the audience for
inspection.
Oiie would imagine from the news
stories sent out by the several news
agencies that the entire section of the
country from Switzerland to Holland
ism seething mass of soldiery a continu
ous turmoil of battle staff officers gallop
ing along the lines, urging on the men to
greater efforts, and the shrill notes of
the bugle, giving the signal to retreat,
to advance or to charge. Nothing of
the kind is the case and were it not for
the boom of the cannon in the distance
and the bursting of shells with their
trail of smoke, there would be a perfect
calm, yes, even an ominous stillness,
such as precedes the breaking of the day.
Nothing is seen of the millions of soldiers
who are participating in this great con
flict, all have burrowed into the earth
until even the change of reliefs is not
seen by the observer. Trenches zigzag
the entire length of the five hundred
miles of front and back of these are other
lines of trenches, in some instances as
many as a dozen, it all depending upon
the terrain and the probability of attack
in force. In front of the trenches are
fields of barbed wire entanglements and
hardly a stone's throw to the front is a
little ridge marking the line of the
enemies' entrenchments, wherein no
doubt similar conditions obtain.
4B,.it the evidence that fierce battles
havif* been fought along thafe line is not
i&i£6&g. -A -v^rits^Jte sea -©L
marks-the place where the charges have
Mayor Fritsche acted under the been made. Where the name of the
dead can be obtained, it is inscribed
upoIn a rude^ headstone, otherwise only a
beewithinehisy
power
tfo
refuse to licens to giv an kind
a show or exhibition. In order to re- „VV1JWI1W.
cover damages from the city, the plain- of the fact that the bodies are buried
tuTs would have to attack the validity in the exact position in which they were
TRAINING
TOPIC
All parents in Minnesota have the
pioblem of child training in the home
and community. Prof. M. V. O'Shea,
University of Wis., Professor of Educa
tion and International Authority on
Child Study and Training wfll give a
series of four lectures on the subject at
the State Sunday school Convention in
Austin April 26-30.
Prof. O'Shea has written many books
on Child Study and Training and kindred
subjects. He is the recognized authority
on child development in America. This
convention will afford many Sunday
school workers of the State an opportu
nity of getting the last word on the train
ing of boys and girls along right ideals,
character and life.
The need of increased attention to
Child Training is apparent to any one
who is a student of the social and re
ligious life of our State. More than
250,000 boys and girls in Minnesota be
tween the ages of 5 and 21 years of age
are getting no religious training except
what they get in the home. That is,
that number is neither enrolled in the
parochial or Sunday schools of the
various religious organizations.
Jw
^.xx. ,-,WUd^i,,.
r**" jM «d^.vj» », AJ ~^.*a*&*^fiVg$
v»v** iu^MUOvl/llU( 1/l/IiCl VV1DC will cL
colored tablet is placed to designate the
nationality of the fallen soldier. This
sea of graves is everywhere and because
ttIlu
found it is possible to re-enact the battle
and its results. Here and there is found
a huge mound of earth, wherein fifty to a
hundred Germans and French are buried.
There a shell took its toll of death and the
bodies were buried where they fell. The
advance of infantry is clearly defined, by
intervals of open spaces where the men
rested one brief moment—then another
irregular line of graves.
Mr. Larson made a trip of several
hundred miles behind the lines. Village
after village was passed where not a sign
of a living thing appeared. Ruins and
desolation as far as the eye could reach
toward the battle line. The dull roll of
distant artillery fire is never absent
and even twenty and thirty miles to the
rear it reverberates incessantly.
The war had been in progress over a
year when Mr. Larson first arrived and
even then he found that the feeling of
hatred against the enemy was giving
way to a feeling of respect and admira
tion. The men themselves are sick of
the conflict and while now they are
taking things as a matter of course, Mr.
Larson is of the opinion that after peace
is declared there will be such a revulsion
of feeling against everything military
that no nation will ever be able again to
establish a military or even a semi
military government.
The wildest dreams of the war fanatic
have come to realization in thousand
fold worse form and no matter which
nation or set of nations is victorious,
they all will be losers and it will take
them years and many generations to
recuperate from the losses they have
sustained.
MINIATURE BATTLE IS STAGED
AT CAMBRIA.
Barrel staves, neck-yokes and young
telephone poles figured in a miniature
battle staged in Cambria last Friday
evening in front of the Goshen school,
following the production of a home
talent play in the school house.
The breaking of diplomatic relations
came as a result of an aerial attack on
Thursday evening, when one of the
aviators ascended the roof of the school
house and plugged the chimney. A
rehearsal for the home talent play was
going on in the building at the time and
tne amateur actors had to beat a hasty
retreat when the stove refused to draw
and the room becarre filled with smoke.
The secret service was at once requi
sitioned to ferret out the miscreant, but
when the rumor began to circulate that
E. V. Evans, Jr., looked and acted guilty,
his friends and relatives held an indigna
tion meeting. Indignation is right, for
they immediately started to dig in. A
handy neck-yoke wrought havoc among
the enemy, but the attack was not made
without losses, as is evidenced by a num
ber of discolored optics, swollen jaws and
ditto heads. Both parties showed a lack
of preparedness, however, because no one
had thought of providing for a hospital
corps and when several applications of
horse liniment and other handy remedies
failed to reduce the swellings and heal the
**W|J(r«**{ri*s«tft*«'!(}ky
rtmm
bruises, Dr. Vogel was sent for to patch
up the wounded.
There still is considerable bad blood
over the affair in and around Cambria
and it would not be surprising a bit if
warrants were issued for the arrest of
several of the parties implicated in the
scrap.
Ball players are limbering up for spring
practice and it will not be long before
the fans will be able to watch regular
games.
OTTO MEYER
Distinguished American Violinist
NEW DLM TO HAVE
UNIVERSITY WEEK
LECTURES WILL BE HELD DAILY
AT ARMORY FROM MAY 29 TO
JUNE 3.
DISTINGUISHED AMERICAN VIO-
LINIST APPEARS IN CONCERT
NUMBER.
0
.^r^tt^being perfected by-
the local committee for a University Ex
tension week this year in New Ulm be
ginning May 29 and ending June 3.
The necessary funds, something like
$400, have been subscribed by the busi
ness men of the city as a guaranty
should the receipts during the week fall
below that figure. The complete pro
gram for the week is being worked out
by the University Extension division
and probably will be submitted to the
local committee within a week.
The meetings this year will be held in
the Armory, but the matter of the price
of admission and other details have not
yet been decided upon and probably
will be left to a Commercial Club com
mittee. The lectures will be held both
afternoon and evening and possibly on
several occasions in the forenoon.
One of the best numbers of the week
which have so far been decided upon is
the musical number to be given by Otto
Meyer, the distinguished violinist, whose
success as a concert artist and teacher,
both in Europe and this country place
him among the foremost of America's
musical talent.
With Mr. Meyer, as soloist and ac
companist, will appear Marie Meyer
TenBroeck, his sister, a pianist whose
-syss^^aMs,* «^£S£Te
and his sister nave supplemented their
great natural musical gifts have placed
them among the most finished artists
now concertizing in America. Both are
especially notable for their marvelous
tonal and technical proficiency.
Marie Meyer TenBroeck commenced
her piano studies as a child under the well
known teacher, Victor Heinze, in Chicago.
At the early age of sixteen she Was ap
pearing as a highly finished concert
artist. She then went to Europe where
she finished her musical education under
Godowski in Berlin.
Otto Meyer, after much effort to con
vince his father, a merchant prince with
a chain of stores in Indiana and Iowa,
that his talent was genuine, followed his
sisters footsteps, studying in Prague with
Sevcik, (Kubelik's teacher) and with the
great Belgian master Ysaye. Two years
more he spent on concert tours through
central Europe, spending his summers
with Ysaye under whom he prepared his
repertoires. His European successes
were followed by another two years of
concert touring in America under the
management of Haensel & Jones of New
York and later an engagement as soloist
with the Minneapolis Symphony or
chestra. He resigned from the symphony
orchestra to organize with his sister the
Meyer-TenBroeck School of Music in
Minneapolis.
DEMURRAGE CHARGES RAISED
BY ROADS
Because so many cars are being held
in the East, as they cannot be unloaded
into ships, cars are becoming scarce in
the West and as a result the demurrage
bureau has sent out to the various rail
road companies an order regarding new
and higher demurrage charges. Here
after untilJune 15, there will be a higher
charge for those who neglect to unload
their cars after they have been notified
that the cars are waiting for them. The
first day after such notice is given they
will have to pay a demurrage of $2 a day
instead of $1 a day as heretofore.
l-j^-l.jBf ^w#»S0
NUMBER 15
WHOLESALE HOUSE
AN ASSURED FACT
OUTSIDE MONEY MEN READY TO
MAKE THIS A DISTRIBUTING
POINT.
OPTION FOR LEASE IS TAKEN
ON OLD CITIZENS BANK
BUILDING.
That New Ulm's progress and increase
population is being watched by the
moneyed men of the state is proven by
the fact that a party of investors were
here last week and decided that this city
would be an ideal place for a wholesale
grocery house and in order to close the
deal at once made arrangements for the
lease of the old Citizens bank building
on North Minnesota street and also for
the big basement under the Metzinger
store, which is at present not put to any
extensive use
The two gentlemen who are connected
with the new business house are R. W.
Hicks of Sauk Center and H. W. Bockus
of Frazer, Minn. These two are already
interested in several other wholesale
grocery houses in both Northern and
Southern Minnesota which have been
in successful operation for several years.
Mr. Hicks is the practical man of the
business and has had years of experience
both as manager of wholesale houses
and also as salesman on the road. He
knows conditions in Southern Minnesota
by reason of his connection with several
of the large wholesale houses before he
went into business for himself. Mr.
Bockus is the financial end of the firm
and is interested in several ventures of a
like character.
As a rule, outsiders who want to bring
some factory or other institution to the
city ask for a liberal bonus or donation
in the way of stock subscriptions, but
in this respect the men who are behind
this proposition are different from the
rest and ask nothing from the city or
the citizens except their support when
the business is opened and ready to offer
its wares to the merchants.
According to present plans, the former
bank building and second floor will be
used for office purposes and the storing
of the lighter articles handled by whole
sale houses of this kind. The heavier
and bulkier stufLwilLbe stored in the
basement of the old Neumann store,
where easy access can be had from the
alley and on account of its central location
will be a convenient place to do business
from.
Of course these quarters will be only
of a temporary nature and should the
business of the house be such as to assure
the investors that New Ulm and vicinity
will give it the support it is entitled to a
new and modern structure will be
erected.
Messrs. Hicks and Bockus are at
present perfecting their organization and
expect to return to New Ulm within a
few weeks for the purpose of completing
their arrangements. Several local par
ties have become interested in the pro
position within the past few days and
have asked to be permitted to invest in
the proposition. These no doubt will
be given an opportunity later on.
In a letter received yesterday from
Minneapolis Mr. Hicks states that the
men interested with him have decided
to take up the proposition upon his
recommendation and that the house will
be in operation by the first of July. All
the local arrangements as to leases, etc.,
have been completed by wire and by
mail, and all that now remains is the
8 now prominent* before tne ffi£tdThe%t&»l guffi
fixed up to suit th requirements of the
ST. PETER VOTERS OUST
ADMINISTRATION.
1
4
~p
OLD
The largest vote ever cast turned out
Tuesday at St. Peter and ousted the
present members of the council, re
placing them by two newspapermen—
Miller and Loehl—and some new timber..
There seemed to be an emphatic demand
that new men be elected to the council
as the old members made a thorough,
campaign on their records as city officials
and lost out on that alone.
The contract recently made with the
electric light and power company and the
shutting down of the municipal plant
was made one of the campaign issues, the
new candidates taking the stand that the
council acted hastily and unwisely in
closing the contract. Personalities also
cropped out during the contest.
JUDGE OLSEN GRANTS SEPARA
TION.
Judge I. M. Olsen of the district court
filed a decree Tuesday of last week
granting a permanent separation in the
case of Anna Gieseke vs. Albert Gieseke
and giving the custody of the five minor
chddren into the care of the plaintiff.
The decree also provides for payment of
perpetual alimony in the sum of $40 per
month.
This case created considerable interest
at the time and previous to the trial be
cause of the rather sensational charges
made by the plaintiff which were evi
dently found well founded by the court.
The couple were married in Minneapolis
on Aug. 26, 1902, but they have resided
on a farm near Sleepy Eye for a number
of years. They have not been living
together for nearly a year.
The time of the sounding of the fire
whistle for the curfew hour has been
changed from 8 to 9
summer months.
