nrr
3E BARRE DAILY
no
VOL. XX NO. 24.
HAUHK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
71 TfTTCICi
li JilYiL JJiO
i
ATTACK BY FIRE
FAILED TO WIN
AT CUMIERES
The German Columns Used
Flame Projectors as They
Advanced on Caurette's
Wood, on the West Side of
the Meuse River, but the
. French Say Attack Failed
MILFORD, N. II., RILL
RUNS TO MAY, 1920;
STRIKE IS ENDED
ATTACKERS HURLED
BACK BY FRENCH
East of the Meuse, in the
Douaumont-Vaux Sector,
There Was Only Artillery
Fight French War Office
Claims Germans Sustained
Heavy Losses Yesterday
After Conference Which Lasted to Late
in the Evening an Agreement Wai
Reached Whereby the Men .
Will Reaume Work.
Milford, S: 11, April 12. At 10:30
o'clock last niglit, following conference
between committer representing the
striking granite workers ami their' em
ployers, it was announced that aatisfac-
tory agreement had been reached and
the strike that had been in progress since
iwreh 1 was settled.
Some 400 men have been affected by
the strike, and it is Raid that an increase
in wage was agreed upon which will re
milt in a general 10 per cent raise. The
new agreement extends for four years,
or until May, 1020. There was some
argument over tho length of the agree
ment, but it was satisfactorily settled.
The chairman of tho manufacturers'
committee was Samuel A. Lovejoy, and
the head of the strikers delegation was
Frank Gardner.
WAR WRITER
DEAD AT PHONE
Richard Harding Davis Died
Suddenly at His
Home
CONFERENCE AT QUINCY.
Paris, April 12. The German assault
tm the Verdun front west of the Meuse
was renewed this morning. The troops
advanced on Caurettea wood, south of
Cumieres, using flame projectors, but
were repulsed, the war ollice announced,
Kast of the Meuse, m the Douaumoiil
Vaux sector, there was only artillery
lighting. The war ollice says it has been
confirmed that the German losses yester
day were very heavy.
The-Flench" statement last night tell
ing o yesterday's lighting said:
"Fast of the .Mouse, after a very vio
lent artillery preparation, which was
completed by an intensive discharge of
liichryinosal shells; the Germans about 4
o'clock launched a strong attack against
our trendies between Douaumont and
Vaux
"The enemy, who had gained a footing
in some of the advanced sections of our
!;nes, was driven out a little later by a
hi. liter attack by our troops, in llu
e nirse of which about 100 wounded Ger
iimn prisoners, including an officer, were
token."
MEXICAN BANDITS
LOST 70 MEN
IN NEW ATTACK
Assailed Carranza Garrison at Pasaje,
Durango, and Were Routed, After
Which They Fled in Disorder.
Torreun. April 11, via Kl Paso June
.ni. April li The details of a five
U ur buttle between the Carr-nza gar
f son at Pasaje, Durango, and an at
ficking 'live composed of Contrcras and
entire bandits were brought here to-
ilny. I lie outlaws lieu in disorder alter
losing To killed. It is reported that the
de facto government troops lost lour
lead.
Some Progress Was Reported After It
Last Night.
Quincy, Mass., April 12. Committees
representing the locals of the granite
cutters, granite polishers and tool sharp
eners' unions last night held a five-hour
session with the granite manufacturers
at the Board of J rade building in an
effort to settle the dispute that is keep
ing the granite industry here idle. Kvery
thing has been disposed of except the
disagreement between the manufacturers
and the polishers as to whether a lump
er shall be allowed to do hand polishing.
Last night some progress was made.
"Five Men Hold Up Quincy."
The Quincv (Mass.) Patriot of last
night declared that five men were hold
ing up a settlement of the trouble in the
granite industry there. The Patriot
said:
According to lth granite manufac
turers and granite polishers, five men,
representing in wages a small sum, are
keeping the granite industry of the city
HIS. BODY FOUND
THIS MORNING
Davis Had Recently Been
Traveling in
Europe
REARDON CHOSEN
AS CHAIRMAN
ifllp anri thmitmniia of irtpn vihn dtp m
ioualy awaiting the settlement of the I
differences from returning to work. The in iar Tin,,,," -The King's Jackal
Mount Kiseo, Jf. Y., April 12. Richard
Harding Davis, author and war corre
spondent, died at his home here late last
night from heart trouble. His body was
found early this morning. He was ap
parently stricken while at the telephone.
Davis had gone to the telephone to
dictate a telegram to a friend in New
York City. He had lieen in failing health
for some time.
Mr. Davis was born in Philadelphia in
lRfi-J, the son of the late L. Clark and
Rebecca (Harding) Davis, and was mar
ried April 4, 1MH9, in Marion, Mass., to
Cecil, daughter of .1. M. Clark of Chicago.
He served as a war eorresixindent for
the London rimes and New lork Herald
in the Turkish-Greek, Spanish-American,
South African and Russian-Japanese
wars. He was a fellow of the Royal
Geographical society and a member of
the Kxplorers' Club of America.
As an author, Mr. Davis wrote manv
books, including "Soldiers of Fortune,"
Our hnglish. Cousins, " an flibber and
fit hers," "The Rulers of the Mediterrane
an, I hree Griniros in enezuela. Cuba
The
Bar re Man To Be Head of the Democrat
ic State Convention Which Will Be
Held in Burlington May 25. ,
Hurlington, April 12. There were ten
committeemen present at tho meeting of
the Democratic stato convention, called
at the Sherwood house yesterday after
noon bv the state chairman, J. L'. Kenne
dy of Williston. The following counties
were represented: Addison. D. F. Mac-
auley of Shorchamj Benniiigloii, Fred
Martin of Hcnnmgton, proxy for J. II.
Mulligan; Caledonia, A. H. Gleason of
St. Johnsburyj Chittenden, J. J. Kenne
dy j Grand lale, George Tracy of South
Jiero; Franklin, J. J. ihompson ot St.
Albans; Lamoille, C. L. Gates of Morris
ville; Orleans, F. H. Pierce of Orleani:
Orange, II. (). Rixby of Chelsea ; Washing
ton, L. J. Owens of liarre.
Chairman Kennedy presided over the
meeting, which was held in the private
dining room of the hotel. It ti voted
to hold the state convention in Burling
ton on May 25 to elect delegates and al
ternates to the national convention at
St. Louis, and to hold the caucuses on
May 16, the day of the presidential pri
mary. Rev. J. B. Reunion of Barre was
selected as temporary , chairman of the
convention and Harry W. Witters of St.
Johnsbury as secretary, It was voted
that the representation at the conven
tion be appointed according to the last
gubernatorial vote, with one delegate to
each town and an additional delegate for
each 50 votes or major fraction thereof,
which is the usual apportionment. M.
G. Leary of Burlington, Rev. J. Wesley
Miller of Bethel and truest Hitchcock of
1'ittsford were elected as the committee
on resolutions.
ROAD NARROW
AND RUTTED
BARRE MACHINISTS
ASK $3 .MINIMUM
Employers Did Not Seem Disposed Last
Evening to Agree to the New Pjopo
sition to Replace Bill Ex-
piring April 30.
Machinists of Rurre local of .the union
of that name threaten to strike May I
unless their demands for a $.') minimum
are met and if the stand taken bv tho
employe at a conference of the two com
mittces last evening is maintained, tho
union olbcinls say the men will go out.
The present agreement between the ma
chinists and the employes has been in
foiee for the past six years. When it
was signed, it was supposed to continue
indefinitely unless, after a year, either
side should give notice of its desire for
a change. Recently tho machinists met
and voted to go after a .$3 minimum for
eight hours to replace the present mini
mum scale of $2.23 for nine hours.
I'pon the presentation of the demands
'to me employes, tiie latter asked lor a
conference, which took place lust night.
J The employes w ere represented by F'rank
That Northfield street in Montpclier, ! SmillI w- A. Lnue, W. M. Hidden and
neap the K!noh,.rv fnrm vi hern . ..,.. jj. ,., m-, .u.
Was Point Introduced by
Defense in the Rich
Cross Suit
CALLED DANGEROUS
EVEN IF SMOOTH
$10,000 Suit for Death of
Mrs. Rich in Auto Acci
dent Nearly Ended
manufacturers are just as anxious as are Lion Hnd thp cmyorll) "West from
VILLA PUTTING UP BLUFF.
Is Using Lopez' Death as Basis for HU
Own "Demise."
El Paso, April 12. An entirely new
version of the story of Villa's death was
brought here to-day by a Mexican cat
tleman who claimed to have suffered a
visitation from a band of Villa follow
ers on a ranch near Iiachiniba. This
man said that Villa wag neither dead nor
wounded, but that Pablo lyopez, the
bandit's notorious lieutenant, had died
iind that Villa had deliberately used his
death as the basis for a story of his own
finish.
Villa is thought by Mexican officials
in Juarez to be safely hidden away in
the men that the strike should be set
tied, for many of them have orders for
many memorials, which call for delivery
for Memorial day. It is understood that
all of the branches have reached an
agreement with the exception of the pol
ishers, and it only needs be for them to
settle to start the wheels of the indus
try moving again.
I he onlv point upon which the settle
ment of the strike is now held up, is in
regard to lumpers. The manufacturers
want it so arranged that lumpers may
work at hand polishing II hours a week.
i he polishers are willing that its mem
bers should do -some lumpers' work, but
insist their pay shall be the same as
other polishers.
"In brief the situation as it is under
stood is this: The lumpers are paid ?.'! a
day, and the manufacturers desire that
they may work 11 hours during the week
doing hand polishing. As far as can be
ascertained there arc just five lumpers
employed and the pay of each of these
five men would be $18 per week.
"The polishers insist that they shall
be paid the minimum wage of $4 a day
and thus will be allowed to do what
lumping is necessary. In other words,
it means that these men will receive SI
per day more than would otherwise le
allowed, making their wage $24 a week.
"Therefore, summing it up, it is five
men that are now holding up the re
sumption of work."
i. ar window, "H tth Hot H Armies in
South Africa," "Real Soldiers of For
tune," and many others. He also wrote
a number of plavs, "Taming of Helen,"
"Ranson's Folly," "The Dictator," and
"The Galloper.""
CHILDREN KILLED
BY EXPLOSION IN
POWDER TOWN
KILLED BY BLOW
ON HEAD BY BRIDGE
BOY WAS HURLED
AS HE TRIED
TO BOARD TRAIN
William Bocher, 15, Was Struck by Line
of Cars as He Swung Aboard a
Southbound Freight Train
at St. Albans.
St. Albans, April 12. William Bocher,
aged 15, was seriously injured at 11
A DuPont Factory Was Blown Up and
Together with It Most of the Vil
lage Three laves Were Lost.
Roanoke. Ya April 12. The plant of
the Jhil'ont Powder company, eight miles
west of Minefield, W. Va., was destroyed
by an explosion this morning, accord
ing to telephone advices from Blueh'eld.
Three men were killed. The loss is esti
mated at $I50,IMK).
There were four. explosions which not
onlv blew the plant to pieces, but
wrecked the little village of Nemours,
where it was situated. The dead are
one workman and two children. The lat
ter were killed in their home near the
mill.
The principal damage was done by the
first explosion which completely de
stroyed the building in which it or
cuired. The succeeding explosions aro
believed to have cause by flying embers
and were of less intensity. The plant
had been working day and night on war
orders.
Four thousand keg-s of black powder
exjdoded from an unknown cause.
LOST EVERYTHING.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Welch Saved Only
the Clothing On Their Backs.
South lioyalton, April 12. The farm-
o'clock this morning, w hen he attempted I house and all it contents belonging to
to board a Central Vermont freight train Mr. and Mrs. Frank Welch and located
which was moving out of the local vard, in the stage road between Sharon and
southbound. He was taken to the hos- I Strafford were burned late Monday night. Upsides her husband. Mrs. Corev is sur
pital, where an operation was performed ! and Mr. and Mrs. Welch barely escaped Uived bv four sisters. Mrs. Alex Corev of
the Sierra Mad re mountains while thebaic tnis forenoon. 1 lie Hoy said hissing awaweneu ny mcir son, u imam, this city. Mrs. Charles Toney of I.ittl"-
Americnn cavalry pursues the rear guard :m,lno WBS at ratoga Springs, V ., ,and tx-ing aide to snatch only a lew ar- ton, N. H., Mr. Julian Locust of North
band of Villa bandits, whose strategy is!"n''re ins lamer, William ISocher, uasH'ies ot clothing. lAdams, Mass., and Mrs. John Doumat of
Patrick E. Casey, Rutland Railroad Em
ploye, Was Climbing to Top of Car
When Accident Happened.
Middlebury, April 12. With his scalp
torn nearly from his head and suffering
from injuries to bis back, Patrick K.
Casey, employed in the car department
of the Rutland railroad at Rutland, was
found about 4 o'clock yesterday morning
on top of a freight, car at the station in
this village, having been hit apparently
when the train passed under the Main
street bridge. Despite his horrible in
juries, he retained consciousness almo"t
to the time of his deuth. which occurred
at S o clock at a hospital in Burlington
The unfortunate man had been ordereJ
to Alburg to take charge of steam shov
el work.
No one saw- the accident. The man's
groans were heard by Conductor J. W,
iirisiin, in charge oi the freight train
when the train stopped here for or
ders, and to get water. The man'a en
tire acalp wa.tjrn nearly from hi
head. He ,vaa going up the 'ladder to
get on top of the car when the train
came to the bridge and he probably
would have fallen between the cars if his
legs had not caught in the rungs of the
ladder. lie was not able, however, to
give a complete explanation of the acci
dent.
He was taken into the station and Dr,
E. H. Martin was summoned as well as
Father Leonard, pastor of St. Mary's
church, who administered the last rites
of the church. He was taken on the
sleeper to Burlington.
1 ne remains were taken last evening
trom Jiurlington to his home in Rutland.
He was about on years of age and had
been in the employ of the company for
a number of years. He leaves a wife;
four sons, Mark Casey of Middlebury,
who went to Burlington yesterday noon.
Augustus, Patrick and uregory Lasey of
Kutland, and one daughter, Irene, who
lived at home in Rutland. Mrs. Carl O.
Frost of thia village was a niece.
I 'ln1witi :tnt . ltn,ri.il n iiiimi red fur
Croaa automobile accident occurred !astju. ,llai.h,iBts-. in giving their demands
summer, was dangerous because of nar- in detail, the union members asked that
rowness at that point and the existence J all members working for the proposed
f n,i ., n ;.,.,fc v,;i, ! minimum, :!. receive an increase of ,V.)
-- auto 11 win "lie iitucu 1111 u a inn iv 1 r- it
w a iminf. Vimiin-ht nut. hv tun wit. cents per day. 10 an propositions, ic is
liesses for the defense who testified to-1 imported, the employers took the stand
day in Washington county court in theltlliU a" extension ot the wage scale and
WHERE TO PUT
SINKING FUND
Caused No End of Discus
sion at City Council
Meeting
REPLIES FROM BANKS
WERE CONSIDERED
One Institution tT , ,illinff
to Pay Pr V-CRate
of IrVt, 4.76
Seth C. Rich vs. George Cross case,
William Pcrvier and his father, (Tiarlei
Pervier, both of Northfield, told of driv
a decrease in tho hours are impossible at
this tune. erv little time was con
sinned, it is stated, in ascertaining whero
ing along that particular piece of road j both sides stand w ith the result that
the day preceding and the day of the 1 the conference straightway came to a
accident and described the eonmtion of deadlock.
the road. The former said that he had! The machinists hold that nearly all or
noticed the ruts, which were from one tojganized and unorganized labor in Barre
three inches deep, and extended across is working only eight hours and that in a -
the ravine. He had stopped his machine 'chinists all over the country are, getting
DEATH FROM TUBERCULOSIS.
Mrs. Albert Corey Died To-day After
Long Illness.
Mrs. Lens Corey, aged 20, wife of Al
bert Corey, pased away at her home 011
Prospect street this morning at 2 o'clock,
the end following an illness of several
months. Death was due to tuberculosis.
to beguile the pursuers away from the j empioyea as a oonermaker by the Dela
IliiMlltr Til HTM ft f their chief. Mexican fol- ware tt Hudson railroad.
The son was awakened bv a strange
noise and on investigating he found the
lowers say the favorite trick of the lan- Apparently the crew of tram No. 411, 'house to lie atire. He promptly notified
(lit leader is to have the story sprewd ) wlueli the youth tried to board, knew 1 his parent, and bv the time thev had
that he is dead, that the ardor of the
pursuers might be dampened.
SPEAKER SIGNS
WITH CLEVELAND;
SEASON OPENS
Fort Kent, Me. Two brothers also sur
vive. Daniel Romainis of Harre and a
brother residing in Syria.
Mrs. Corey was born Lena Romainis on
Mount Libanus in Syria, 2(1 years ago,
She came to America three years ago
and her marriage to Mr. l orey took place
Terms of Former Boston Star Were Not
Divulged, but He Will Play with the
Indians This Afternoon.
Cleveland, Ohio. April 12. Tristram
Speaker signed a contract with the Cleve
land American league ciub at noon to
3;v and will apN-ar in the line-up this
afternoon hi the opening game. The de
tails of the contract were not divulged.
Speaker's contract is for two years and
it is believed that he will get clos to
.1o.ihsi f,.r Ins two years' work. He had I
-k-d C.o"i lionu-'a, part of the price ! For Two Position with National Life In-
nothing of the accident, but, the boy's left the building, there was 11O cham-e
attempt was seen by Conductor J. K. ! to save the furniture or other house
Ingham of a Rich ford special freight; hold accumulations of many vears. Thcv
train. When the Ikiv tried to swingiwere compelled to stand around in their jn Burlington Dec. 10, 1914. After their
aboard the moving train, he struck a line , incomplete apparel and watch their home j marriage the couple came lo Itarre to
of ears on the middle track and was !go up in smoke. The barn w hich was lo- ' reside. Mrs. Corey w as a memler of
nurien 10 me groiuiu. i oiiuuctor ingalim ; caieu nearny was, fortunately, covered , the Catholic rhnreli and mi ml... red manv
anil v naries r. i.aie, a yanl clerk, went; with an iron rooting so that the sparks
to his assistance and carried him to an from the burning house did not set tiie
office, where Dr. Alan Dai idton, the com- ; to it. The loss is very serious, as Mr.
pany physician, as summoned. l.Hter lnnd Mrs. Welch can icd" only ?StiO insur
the boy was taken to the hospital, where Jance, and the loss over and above that
it was sBid his condition was serious. I will lie 2,500.
Hesides his lather in Saratoga Springs,) For the time lieing. Mr. and Mr,
the boy said he has a sister in Albany. I Welch arc stopping with his sister, Mrs.
N. V. i K. H. Joyce, in this village, and their
The freight train which the boy tried jsen is taking care of the stock at the
to Iniard was in charge of Conductor - farm.
W. L. Wright and Engineer A. A. Parme- I
lee. !
NEW OFFICERS ELECTED.
pa i. to im-ioii run it couM not (x
learned if he obtained it. The official
announcement to-day id airaply:
speaker ha signed a contract. He
veiled it as he wanted it."
DIED AS SHE SEWED.
Hinesburg Woman Found with Her Work
In Her Hands.
Itine!.urg. April 12. Mrs. Josephine
Ijmrene Kelley us found dead by her
husband. Maxem K. Kelley. Upon his
return from ni'k t 7 o'ekxk last even
ing. With mj in her hands he had
fsllen frmn her ihair. Mr. Kfllev left
fom- ear'r -str,Uv morning, hia wife
..;..,,,,,, 1 usual, ail -tU.-m'i
!. I I s.if.rf f at time wn.i
cm tt k. V?h prtit,r Mirrr1 :
I. f..ro ,l,rnr a n- rr-i-araf n had --n
nM'V f-r Iv itwil. Dr. L A- rird'c !
s :"i' n-1 at' I he in t irn rv'tir..i:
s. !. :.. 1 t. W. I' .r -. I, h:t t iiapman
2i lit r.ry . '.f. n.
DENTIST ASSISTANT
HURT BY EXPLOSION
And Lane Opera House Building and Con
tents at Newport Were Damaged
to the Extent of $5,000.
friends in the Syrian colony in Harre.
It is expected that funeral services
will be held in St., Monica 'a church Fri
day, although the hour has not been de
termined. The parish priest, P.ev. P.
M. MiKenna, will officiate and interment
is to le made in the Catholic cemetery on
Rccklev street.
in one instance at that point on meet
ing a machine because he waa afraid to
sg it at that point.
I he road waa barclv wide enough for
auto to meet, he testified on direct ex
amination. On cross-eamination he ad
mitted the ruts could easily be seen bv
anyone exercising ordinary care in driv
ing a machine. He also admitted that
at night with headlights in good working
order that the ruts would be even more
distinct. If the night was foggy the
road could not lie seen aa well and he
testified as to his experience with fog
Rickets.
Charles Pervier said that he considered
the place in question dangerous even if
the road was smooth instead of having
ruts.
Robert Mayo, son of Dr. W. I!. Mayo,
anil Vivian Morton, both of whom were
in a party which had been in Harre on
the night of the accident, told of stop
ping at the place of the accident 011 the
return trip to Northfield and they placed
the time at 11:30 o'clock. They offered
to help Mr. Cross and his party. At that
time Mrs. Rich bad been removed to the
hospital and the only persons there were
Mr. (toss and Mr. Hutehins and a per
son whom they did not know. They did
not notice any indications that Mr. Crojss
was under the influence of liquor.
I heir testimony regwrding the posi
tion of the car relative to the rock in the
field differed with that offered by the
plaintiff, each witness insisting that the
front wheel of the car rested upon the
rock rather than being on one side of it
with the running board straddling it
Manager J. K. Rabidou of the from
Bros., garage told of being summoned
to the scene of the accident by telephone
and he carried, as a passenger from
Northfield, Mr. Rich. Thev stopped but
a few moments at the scene on their way
and then proceeded to the bosj,ital, where
Mrs. llich was takum. Returning, a long
er stop was made and later two em
ployes of the Cross gnnige v.ere carried
to the scene and in-rnicte.I t 1 pull tl'3
lam.iged car back into the ro.id. Mr.
Rabidou described the damage done to
the machine, his description tallying al
most exactly with those offered by wit
nesses for the plaintiff.
Miss Kvelyn Met arthy, who was em
ployed in the Ritch bakery at Northfield,
testified that Mrs. Rich had told her of
her troubles with her husband, and the
witness said that the two were quarrel
ing almost ;ill the time. On cross-exam
ination .Miss Met arthy said that Mr.
Rich had been kind to his wife and ap
parently tried to regain her affections
and to get her to stop going alsuit w itii
Frank Hutehins. Mr. Rich told the wit
ness that she didn't like Mr. Cross, but
would not turn down any invitation
from him to go on automobile rides.
R. L. Sooner of Montpclier testified
that he took a party, including Dr. Hat k-
ness, to the scene ot mo aeeiacnt tne
night it occurred. He said he talked
with Cross at the timq and did not think
Cross was intoxicated. The witness told
of offering to buy the auomobile just
as it stood, and Cross replied that it was
no time to talk about a trade. The wit
ness also described the condition of the
car.
even better than the minimum asked
It is reported that the employers point
to different business conditions as their
reason for refusing the demands. The
machinists say they will not work on the
nine-hour, schedule alter May 1.
TENDERS RESIGNATION.
Rev. Fred McNeill Gave Startling Rea
sons Therefor.
Startling reasons for resigning from
his pastorate were giveu by Rev. Fred
McNeill in severing his connection with
the tJraiiitevilla Presbyterian church
when the hoard oi managers met last
evening. The bourd and session met at
the I'ref byterian manse at the request of
the pastor, who proecedid to outline his
views on the situation in Graniteville.
In tendering his resignation to become
effective April .'10. he gave his reasons in
brief as follows, it is said:
Decause an undivided church is diffi
cult to carry on under the most propi
tious circumstance, whereas a church
divided against itself, s in Graniteville,
according to Mr. McNeill, cannot expect
the minister to do other than to desire
a separation. Categorically, the retiring
pastor referred to other troubles that
have arisen. Factions, he declared bit
terly, fought him from the time he ar
rived in the village, some because he
couldn't use the Gaelic language; others
because he wouldn't preach Socialism;
another because he would deny a certain
woman the privilege of communion after
she had been accused of calling a neigh
lxr a fool. The last faction opposing
him. he said, was the outgrowth of a
I.iw suit in w hich t lie jury saw fit to go
against him.
He will conduct services in the church
for the last time April .'10. when thero
will be communion. The presbytery,
meeting in Lowell, Mhss., next week, will
make future plans for the church and
the retiring pastor. 1 1
ESTIMABLE YOUNG WOMAN.
WILL REOPEN TO-MORROW.
Cobble Hill School Was Closed Merely as
Precautionary Measure.
Dr. I". H. Railey, health officer in Parre
Town, said to-day that the statement in
yesterday's paper purporting to come
from his omce regarding the close of the
Cobble Hill school on aeeuunt of scarlet
fever in the aehod was not correct; that
the school was not closed because of
scarlet ffver in anv family whose ehil-
suranoe Company.
At the quarterly meeting of the direc
tors of the National Life Insurance com
pany yesterday the election of George
H. Young of Newport as counsel and Wil
liam W. Ruell t,f White River Junc
tion a assistant treasurer v in-
It. , . 1 inn ,1, 1 ur - tils?
. The purchase of propertr at .1
, ' . ' ' 1. " vesterdav attermx
mr nirro-r 'l .vaif nr-ri ami estem .
tank. Fred Craaford a fiid.t.t at Tufta 'iay beeau" boy named Winter, at
college, who as assisting Ur. Hamilton, j tending Codtlar.l seminary, had been pre
n rni(iriml in f' ilim. an,! to t -r - ,-nt at a grange meeting in th hall, and
Iv. though not fatally burned. Dr. Ham- h h,ul ,h,,n d agnowd at
iilton. Mia Hamilton and Mrs. i'avw of r5t f""r s" '" h.w, was -hwd
,(.l,.rr escai-ed v .thout iniurv. 1 h ttm : "fly as pr ant i. nary measure. I.
company rer'nded quwklv and in a fehiKv ,,,"t ' " km. ledge tb-rr
Annie Anderson Olson Died Last Evening
After Long Illness.
The death of Mrs. Annie Anderson Ol
son took place last night at 4:45 o'clock
FOUR CARS DERAILED
But Their Contents Were Not Damaged
in Smash.
Passenger trallic over the Rarre branch
ot the Central Vermont railroad was
transferred to the inlerurban line of the
Montpclier iS Wells River road for a
time yesterday afternoon on account of
the derailment ot tour freight c.-irs on
the main line just south of the Williams
town transfer. Hurried summons were
sent in to M. Albans for the wrecking
crew soon alter the derailment occurred
shortly Itefore '2 o'clock and in order that
the passenger service might not be ma
terially affected permission was obtained
at the Montpclier & Wells River offices
to ue the 'Wells River" road in the
emergency. Iheiential Vermont wreck
ing crew arrived in the city around (1
01 lock last night and steps were taken
at once to clear the main line.
Conductor William Pecor and Engineer
Joseph E. Derry were in charge of a way
freight that left the city for Montpclier
Junction soon sifter 1:110 o'clock. Sev
eral rods north of Iter! in street four cars
left the irons without a warning, al
though the trouble was detected liefore
the locomotive bad gathered speed for
Unto tnt., .cry threshold of the dawn
ing day the city fathers, first in alder-
manic, session and afterward at a sitting
of the council, wrestled, or rather, toyed
I with tho problem of placing llarre's $75,
000 sinking fund on deposit with one,
two, three or four of the banks in th
city. Winding up their routine business
at 8 o'clock, the aldermen act tied down
to a protracted meeting that broke up
when the council adjourned soon after
midnight this morning after accomplish
ing next to nothing in the way of "salt
ing" the money for another period of
three years, beginning May 1.
In the meantime the seven men around
the table paused in their deliberations
long enough to send a peddler of road
oil for the Standard Oil Co. (Inc.) on
his way rejoicing at 12:35 a. ni. over the
Central Vermont railroad with an .$875
contract for spreading oil on the streets.
Lewis and Clarke, in their wandering
through the trackless western woods,
never were so far afield as the council
lors found themselves at the witching
hour of midnight. Not unlike the ex
plorers of old, thev groped their wav
through a circumlocution of words, a re
dundancy of phrases and a labryinth of
schoolboy rejoinders and kindergarten
reprisals only to make port in profitless
adjournment when anxious wives called
the turn by using the telephone persist
ently and to excess.
The volte face, in fine French, is whab
the council neatly turned, when, after
arguing the delicate moral question in
volved in opening semi-confidential bids
on the deposit, voted first to stand by
principle, and then decided to satisfy its
curiosity by finding out where the banks
stood on the sinking fund. It. liad been
reasoned that to open bids, which might
be wholly ignored in the end would bo
unfair and when the first test came threa
aldermen were found opposing the mo
tion to examine the four communica
tion. To shift the responsibility, tho.
aldermanic board adjourned and the
council convened in order to permit the
'mayor to break the tie. Mayor Gordon
broke the deadlock by voting with Al
dermen Glysson, Healy and Bruce to
Uo. the proposals sealed. Aldermen
Shurtleff, Reynolds and Rossi balloting
in favor of examining the offers. Just
before adjournment, however, the motion
of Alderman Reynolds to open the com
munications, seconded by Alderman
liruee, was carried without dissent, on a
show of hands.
As was expected, nothing came of thn
reading of the bids. At present, and fop
the past three .years, the city has been
receiving interest of 4.7G on a $ff2.00rt
sinking fund in the Quarry Savings bank.
The term expires May 1, when the fund
will have increased to $75.00(1. To an
inquiry sent out by the clerk, at the. in
stance of the finance committee, askinsr
each of the four banks whether it would
or would not give 4.7fi for the fund re
plies were received as follows: Tha
Quarry Savings hank stated that a rats
of 4.70 could not lie justified at this time
and offered to submit a bid. The Peo
ple's National bank and the Granite Sav
ings bank evaded the question, each hi?
bidding 4.20 for a whole or a part of the
fund. From the Parre Kivings bank
came an offer of 4.7. the rate maintained
for three years past.
Apparently the council split on the
question of dividing the fund among four
banks. Aldcrtrin Healy accused Alder
man Shurtleff of inconsistency in ospous-
ing the policy of division as a measure
of safety unless a high rate could be se
cured lor tlie until to he lumped in a.
single bank. The memlier from ward 2
intimated that his ward 3 colleague wa
straddling the fence. One of Mr. Shurt
leff's rejoinders was to the effect that
the council sho'uld authorize Mr. Healy
to fix a rate to his own satisfaction and
then report his arrangement to the coun
cil. When Alderman Urine failed to ob
tain a second for his motion to split the
fund in four parts and assign a part ti
as manv Iwnks. Mr. Healy ventured the
the intercity run. it is lielieved that a
c nafia Aittrr '! 1 1 icua rAnnn ail,!,! fue t lia ' .. .... .
. ..... ,.., .... jnjumon that no one roulil tell just wliere
derailment. On IsHh sides the track for ,10 council Fto,l on the matter of divid
a distance of I.st yards, according to the j,,,, f,,,,,). Alderman Shurtleff hur
judgment ol Station Master J. If. L. Lied hack with the aue-.-e.tioi. that mn.f.
after an illness ot one year. She WHailarr, tne ground was loin up. All lour i MPrvone appeared willing to vote as hi
the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. O. E. cars were buried to their ltxe in the ; talked, unless an exception be made in
Newport. April 12. -Fire broke out in jdren attend Cobble Hill wh.., and that
the dental ofh.-e of Dr. S. W. f. Ilamil- !,n, w'bool will rco n tomorrow (Thurs
ton in the Ijine opera house hl.H-k at 2:-'i' !li.vl morning.
n. caused bv the ex- ln explaining nia siaiement. Ir. Hailey
t..,..n nl I... . .. 1 i aid that the aeh'iol ma rl,h.,i In.t Kri.
r . 1 ... ,"l"lv-,l V, I lir 1, I, Kll Hill! 1,-ilP'l it . - - -
avenue irom rne ailmmirmtr nf , . -
estate of .loeph A. Ik. 1--T was ratified,
and the company's bn.inf fr th- thr-
month en-ling Mar, h el wa. j
upon.
Anderson of 20 Warren street. Horn ln
Rarre Vt. 2. ISM, she had lived all her
life in P.arre. She was of a gentle dis
position and her friends were many. I'p
until the last she had received many of
her friend, although she suffered intense
ly. She was ever patient, and was al
ways glad when she could be helping
around.
She w a a member of the Scandinavian
Brotherhood of America and was active
in all its affairs, taking deep interest
in all tint pertained to the advamment :
of its rk. Reside ber parents, her J
two nrnwirr", r-u,r ani i-roy, were
r,reetit at her beilide.
The funeral will he held from ber late!
borne, 2:' Warren street, on f-rt.iav at
2:.tO p. m. Interment wi
1 ! I W il am. .1
' lid,
san.f ami any attempt to return tliejMr. Jlealv's (MsP. s anr Aldermen
cars to the irons without the aid of t!ie,oav and (,v.on said thev were readr
wrecking crew was considered futile. ! , p,', record as favoring 'the p.'licv of
Three coal cars laden with paving j dividing the fund. Alderman Reynolds'
blocks from Mill-tone bill and a flit carlmtjnn to open the bids and to 'accept
of rough stock figured in the derailment.; one ,,f them 'in the event that it should
None of the cargoes was dam,i:-el aud;i ,,T..r ,,f the 4.7 rate was linallr
the content of each ear were found to j ( Jlrrj,.,i ,,p ,.nn, i ,ij, , , .e t, j
be in tart, although the granite in thet authors.- the earning mt of the pro
fear car and the paving stoma rc.-cie. ' , j,i.m incnrpor.it-l in the niotn.n.
a terrific shaking.
CIRS0N LAXS0N.
I
j Marriage of Barre Young Teople Occurred !
at Mcntpehcr.
II be in Hot-' Ml" Xr,"n !-",n- -l-'-c'ter of
nlv intimation i"-' M" ,V,-r '-" fi '"nt s
and inv itat i.m.i
NEW BRITISH SHIP SUNK.
The Senator Was cf 35O0 Tens All Her
Men Probably Safe.
Ixn i'.n. April 12. -L!- vd !. n
rt'in-e.l that lie S-iia .r. a rw Rnt-
ih M. nh p f .tl !,.. ... W-, n
-nuk. If S-!. d t at 1; I an.!. W.T---'.!.
I !. ! r 4i .!! 111 W :,.!.-
ininut had the l Ure wnb r control, h it
t .e e; ar. i f urn-l ;!n;- were complete.
Iv dot roved, at, I ejili parii.lir ei-ve'el
ty i'..,rei-.-. Id iwart'r e'Tice r( the
Mctr j-lan l.;e In-urfc?ee eompany
a -nih,it ;.,' I arc! tli- ir-
t k f jiwe A - r.. general mrr-
lU.tl:' .e. van !e! f'l with water. ttl-
a-atvd Ls i "V.
New Burlington Corporation.
Art . r ( axiatin re f-ie. m it h
. .,!'.. . '; 1 I .v. . .1 ."V for t.e I f '!' lepartnwlit M--r-
t.nd t.,t .r-.l but that tl..t was o'!pi , , u. ,,..,.,
r.-grWr.l thr -ks .g ar,. O-ii .f M:....i and V,. in- -t--r'..r-
. ,W .4b-r raw lw. lU.fh patent..,,-, v. .1 ,;. ti.rk. !,v Vf I ,r
the b'a'th ?Hr. are Mu-Ji tt at j i,nct.-n. i.Vd ,.f ;,.!,.',... V
.; ard Kn:in:i. I'-tl, ih, hcuwa in an t nt.,- Lin aa.l IV.ij I n f
qatrt.in tc U-a u&dii iaiant w Votlk t.tj.
Mr.
str-s-t
il.- n. s' n f Mr. .1.
n of H she'l l ifiini'. were married
t fe ',j.-r-cati.tial nr-inage in M 1 ' -p,
i T T :. 't.-n."i by Jiev. v! m
lev I l';.on:M. K'eie arid jr., -u. )
f.f 11;' T. 11 i--! at 1 1 e r, .-'-.-i v . .a-. "
itie ,nte;y t- I'-.oe. m -, r- t' r ar. ft
re V. Arrif rnt-T'.f vl t'e nM
f a a "M-j t n !-.-. r..;.. ft i- ' -,
- t - e I.. r Im '".":-. Mr. 4 n ---!;
r-! a :.,,,-.-:i - . r an I t t -.
U- e 1 I- r -'. .- I ia. .
? t hi y.r !-k.- t.u N,.;'a ra
tnl.
When the -oum-il wan't px-kevin?
with the sinking fund, it g.ive car to a.
I lepres-nt.itive of the ml cfiTi'panv, who)
prepo-e l to sii'i-l itute a l" n f" fnwn
oil vehi-le for the i ll's oil cart. The
agent, who ai-!Hre.J f,,r fhP flrt time
early in the evening. i-Lihi.-1 in de
tid the aHvaeti-e. a .ruing t. the ne
ef a ni.-t rie l. rcure vehii ie that ia
.n i t'i si re i t'e street cd iniji h nyrn
..t is-.i- t 1 1 v l iii I i.e l-e-r-e .th ii
Iiirk!.r. lie eo-t i pn lirg'T. tl
f-t !. t r te oil lrrt! .-1. t th
-! ! t'e m.-etlg t'e -1 r 1 rt a n
a eoT.tr a t .igt-e I 1-T " I ii)'-:i;'i t
ni-Vto t jnre var-i- of r .( -ir.
a -. "i'.e li-nol ns.ui i li t i. t Itart
t 'vr in .y.
-t -T i ' t -i tv fl .1 e rr;;-1 if 'a
To .' .-! ;ic. if t e .tr- ,..'-, 't,.-
-T , e - I .1 -IT nif-m T. '- Y . r,,-n t ' l
'- '.. - - . : .- T ! ' T . m
2 u
t
