VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH- CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 1916. NME~3
All IN R1ADIN[SS
[ORSCHOOL FAIR
Fair will be Held Rain or
Shine.
FIVE THOUSAND
PEOPLE EXPECTED
Contests in All Departments w1l Be
gin at 10 o'clock. Grand Parade will
Form at the School Grounds at 11
O'Clo6k. Unusual Interest in De
claimers.
Barring unpleasant weather, it is
expected that toe crowd to attend the
county school fair Friday will be the
largest since the county school fair
idea vas inaugurated. Jl'his year more
county schools are participating in the
different contests than. at any previ
ous fair, every school in the county
with the exception of two or three,
being represented. The weather bu
reau has predicted higher tempera
tures for the next. few days, so a
pleasant spring day may be expected.
The contests in the different depart
ments will begin at 10 o'clock. Ad
mission to the school building will be
by card as space is limited, but the
athletic events will be open to the
public, as will also the exhibits in
the court house.
The parade will move promptly at
11 o'clock. The schools will march by
township, with trustees marching in
the rear of their respective schools.
Night school scholars will follow the
day school scholars of each school
whore a night school was held. La
dies of the school improvement asso
ciations will bring up the rear of the
line, marching in a body.
Immediately after the parade rib
bons will be awarded and the cere
mony of taking the oath of allegiance
to the United States flag will be gone
through with. After this the picnic
dinner will be held on the grounds.
The trustees association will hold
its meeting at 2 o'clock in the graded
school auditorium.
The high school athletic meet will
be held at 2:30 o'clock on' the school
campus.
The high school oratorical contest
will be held in the graded school au
ditorium at 8:30 o'clock.
Medails and Cups.
In the high school oratorical con
test, the contestant receiving the high
est average mark will be awarded the
Minter medal, provided for in the will
of the late Capt. J. 11. Minter, who
was greatly interested in the ad
vancement of young people during his
life-time. The contestant winning
second honor will receive a medal
provided for by the oratorical asso
clation.
The Fleming cup, given by Fleming
Bros., is awarded annually to the high
school receiving the highest general
average in the athletic contests. This
cupl wvas won for ithe third consecutive
time by the Clinton htigh schtool last
year, so itey were given final posses
sion of it. Thtis year Flenting Bros.
have given gnother cup to be contest
ed for undlef- the same conditions.
Orphans Comting.
Thme rTornwell orphans will be here
again witht their brightt faces. Din
ner will be provided for thtenm by the
ladies of thte community. Those who
htave not yet been ap~proalced on the
subject htave been requested to tele
phone Mr. J. J. Adams, at thte Laurens
National Bank, as to how many lunch
es they will send for them.
Lunch on the Grounds.
The Tennis Club of the graded
school wili sell lunchtes and coffee on
the school grounds. It is said that
some of the tennis club members are
equally at home on the tennis court
or in the kitchen, so it may be safe
ly piredicted that these lunphes will
be "tip to snuff", as The Newberry
Observer would say.
Declamation Contestants.
Unusual interest attaches to the
declamation contests, so the entrants
in this department are given, as fol
lows:
. Primary Ohm1.
Iattrens township, Mary Tinsley,,
Watts Mill; Youtngs, Ida Babb, Youngs
school; Dials, Eugenia Willis, Gray
Court-Owings; Watenioo, Virginia
Lapford, Waterloo; Cross Hill, Mil
drqd Boozer, Pine Grove; Hunter,
Lijella Watts, Mountville; Scuffletown,
Waselle Ilobo, Langston,
TEMPORARY INJUNCTION
L.ANEY-ODOM ACT
Constitution Mleged to have been
Viulated by Cortain Provisions of
Odom-Laney Statute.
On petition of David B. Henderson,
an insurance man of Charleston,
Eugene B. Gary, 'Chief Justice, at Ab
beville, has granted a temporary in
junction against Thomas H. Peeples,
Attorney General, and F. H1. McMas
ter, insurance commissioner, tem
porarily enjoining them from enforc
ing the Odoin-Laney Act, known as
the "anti-compact" law. The defend
ants are directed to show in the
Supreme Court room in Columbia at
10 o'clock of the morning of April 17,
why this injunction should not be
made permanent. The petitioner al
leges that both the spirit and letter
of the Constitution is violated by the
Odom-Laney salute. Both the At
torney General and the Insurance
Commissioner were served with copies
of the petition and the order yesterday
morning. Copies have been received
here.
Mr. Henderson is represented by
Mlordecai & Gadsden & Rutledge, Na
Ihans & Sinkler and Smythe & Visan
ska, law firms of ('harleston.
111. 1). ('. MeLdlI'It!N D1li.t1D.
.\iter an illn'ss of Ofier at Year Passed
Away Sunday. Burled Monday AMier.
110011.
Mrs, Nannie Martin McLaurin, wife
of ). C. McLaurin, of this city, (lied at
the family residence here Sunday
shortly after noon, after a lingering
illness of about a year. The funeral
services were held in the Laurens
cemetery Monday afternoon, being
conducted by Rev. C. F. Rankin. The
following acted as honorary pall bear
ers: Dr. J. H. Teague, Dr. W. D' Fer
guson, Dr. H. K. Aiken, Messrs Brooks
Swygert, J. M. Philpot, D. A. Davis, S.
M. Wilkes, C. M. Miller, H. Terry and
C. W. Tune. The active pall bearers
were Messrs Ernest Easterby, H. D.
Gray, Clyde Fowler, B. M. Wolff, C. M.
Babb, Eugene Hudgens, T. C. Switzer.
Mrs. McLaurin was a member of the
Baptist church, having joined the
Chestnut Ridge Baptist church, near
the place of her birth, in early life.
She was a consecrated Christian wo
man, greatly loved by all of her ac
quaintances. She is survived by her
husband and one small son besides
the following sisters and brothers:
Mrs. Laura M. Easterby, Miss Maggie
Martin, Mrs. A. 1. Hughes, Mrs. U. I).
Gray, Messrs -i. J. and H. It. Martin,
all of this vicinity, and Mrs. C. S. Mc
Laurin, of McColl.
General Election Yesterday.
The general electiQn on the ques
tions of the officers and re-incorpora
tion of the city was held yesterday,
the vote in the primary of several
weeks ago being confirmed. Very lit
tle interest was shown in the election.
123 votes were cast. The returns will
be sent to Columbia today and it is
thlought thlat tile crtil(eate of incor
poration will be sent back tonight. By
tomorrow it ia thlought that the nill
cis wvill be sworn in andl tile city
again resume a corporate existence.
Primlary Boys.
Laurens township, Kirk Ta3'lor,
Watts Mill; Dials, Charles Hoellams,
Gray Court-Owings; Youngs, Victor
Lanford, Lanford; WVaterloo, Robert
Smith, Waterloo; Hunter, Ralph Bar
rowV, Clinton; Scuffletowvn, Maude May
Harris, Lqngston.
Inltermediate3 Girls.
Lau11rens, Gladys Roper, ,aurens;
Youngs, Janie Cox, Lanford; Dials,
Marrie Curry, Gray Court-Owings;
Waterloo, Ale Culbertson, WVater
lee; Coss Hill, JohnellIa Austin, Cross
11111; Hunter, Annie Adair, Clinton;
Scumletown, Ruth Myers, Musgrove.
Intermediate Boys.
TAurens, Martin Toague,. Laurens;
Youngs, John, Fleming, Lanford;
D)Ials, Charles .Johnson, Gray Coulrt
Owings; Waterloo, J1. C. Pinson, Oak
ville; Cross Hill, Frank Gi'egory;
Cross Hill; Hunter, Jim Copoland,
Clinton.
High RekhooI Boys.
Perineati Hunter, Ora: James
Smithl, Waterloo; Lonie Lanford, Lan
ford(; William- Erskino Turner, Cross
Hill; Paul flobo, Gray Court-Owings;
Eugene'Rtehburg, Olinton; T. B. Sim
mons, 1*urens; Curtis Teague,
Mountvilleo; DeVault Ikague, Hiekcory
Tavern;' Scott Geore,. Trinity Ridga.
Julia Claussen Day at
The Coming Chautauqua
#K
> > }{ et< { ' - #
iI
V .Z
photo by Matzene, Chic go.
JULIA CLAUSSEN, EMINENT CONTRALTO OF THE CHICAGO GRAND
OPERA COMPANY.
T Egreat musical climax of the entire Chautauqua program comes a-zaita
this y'ear on the closing night, when Julia Clauassen of the Chiengo (Gr.mnel
Opera Corppany, wvhose successes of the recent opera season have even str
passed her former achievements. will appear in a concert. S1he will be assistei
by Pierre Hlenrotte. concert mneister of the Chicago Grand Opera Comnpany,.
and( Marcel Charlier. also one of the leading condiuctors of Chicago Gra;.d
Opera.
A year ago. When Mass Alice NIelsen toured the Redpath Chautanquns. It
was thent widel stated In te musical journals that the Chautauqua opened a:
new field to the gretest inslint. The fact that another such great tartll as
Julia Chiusser ths beemen tsgaged for tehis eason and that Ihe assistIng artIst l
are also well knownt i thve grnd opera world at once esali shes the fomat tha
the Marc t gi lee ase C utauqas the greatest coud was nt a Ciagmode o;e,
but O Ier.tihiet.
PENSIINS ARE IREAIDY
FOR TIHE VETERANS
Clerk of Court Now Paying Out Cheeks
to Confederate War 'ensloners.
Clerk of Court Power was busy yes
terday making out checks in payment
of pension claims of Confederate vet
erans and widows of veterans. The
amount to be distributed in this coun
ty is $9,066 and this is being paid out
as the applicants present their claims
to Mlr. Power. There are 265, pension
ers in the county against 266 last year.
The pensioners are divided into six
classes. Two classes, with the num
ber in each class and the amount they
receive, are as follows:
Class A-i members---Those who
were totally disabled in the war, re
ceive $96.
Class 13-0 members---'T'hose who
lost a limb receive $72.
('lass C, No. 1-20 members--Those
who were wounded less seriously re
ceive $48.
Class C, No. 2-S0 members-Widows
whose husbands died during the war
receive $29.
Class C, No. :---25 members-T--'Those
who were in the war, but did not re
vive injury, receive $29.
('lass '-i l:. un-mbers ---Widows
whose hutsands have died simti' the
war teceive $29.
'lhe appropriatioil was increased j
this year so That the ('lass (', Nos. I. 2
aini :. and ('lass 1) receive $29. They
received $2S.5o last year.
"('lEAN-l ' . l NT-l , 1(l".1filie
MA VS BETl"l'EII LA 1'i(i'NM (1,1'13
Week of (general House ('leining has
been' Set Aside, Beginning April
20th.
Following the example of all the
progressive cities of the country, Lau
rens will have its "Clean-Up Week".
The movement was inaugurated by the
Better Laurens Club and the week se
lected will be April 20-27. The fol
lowing letter from the club has been
received for publication:
At a meeting of the executive com
mittee of the Better Laurens Club, it
was decided to follow the good exam
ple of the numerous towns through
out the state and have a "Clean-Up
and Paint-Up Week" beginning A pril
20th. We beg the hearty co-operation
of the newspapers, leaders in all
civic, movements, the mayor, board of
aldermen, health department, business
men, always progressive, fire depart
ment, for this is fire provention; the
ministers, associations and the chureb,
for cleanliness is next to Godliness;
the women's clubs, for no great good
is ever acconiplished without the help
of women; the Boy Scouts, Ihe chil.
dren of the schools; in fact, all of
Laurens can well be drafted Into this
itovemeiti. Let us all vork together
to give our town a thorough spring
cleaning, to brighten ip things with
fresh paint. ('an we not get rid of
those unsightly advertisements which
are tacked up on so many of the trees.
Wouldn't. our city be much more at
tractive If waste papers were not fly
l'cry citiz'n will have an oppor
toni ty to show~ ihis ci vie as wetll as
personlal itride in thItis miovemlenlt . If
your i'trem)is(es do not1 need it, helpi
some(one wuhose do. I .et us make is
('amplaign one of alituismn andii good
business- -make this ('ity beautifuil by
making your' home be'autifulI.
D)1N NEIt F'OR TIE 1 VETlE A.
JDaughte'rs of teCneenyWl
(Bie Atnnuail Dinner' On A prkd 22.
Tile Daughters of the Confederacy
have annlounced that (lie annual dinner
dlinner in honor of tie 'Confedlerate Vet
erans of Laurens county will be gieu
on Satr'uday, April 22nd. The dInner
wIll be served in the armory of the
Traynham Ouards and all of the vet
erans in Iaurens county arc cordially
invited to be presenlt for the occasion.
This annual occasion is always a
source of great pleasure to the ladies
and to te eerans and each year a
lagecrw Is tresent to enjoy the
(lay. The soldiers wVIII assemble at
the couty courthouse and at noon
w Ill mlarchi to thle armory for dinlier.
D~eathi of a (Chtild.
The funeral of Elridge Brownlee,
chIld of .\r. andi Mrs. C. C. lBrownlee,
"'as heldl at tro Watts Mills cemetery
Wednesday after'noon, Rev,.TJ. A. Brock
conducting the servIces. The little
child dIed the day before at the hos
Ilital after' an operation which had
been resorted to in the hope of say
ing his life,
CROSS ACBOR FOLKS
WANT A RALROAD
Meeting ' to be Held Next
Tuesday
LAURENS PEOPLE
ARE INVITED
Proposed to Build a Line' from Spar
tatnburg through Cross A1 nelor to
('linton, La urens or New berry and
'I'lTence probabily to Saluda.
The Advertiser is in receipt of a
letter from .\r. T. 1. ''haclstol of
Cedar Springs, calling attention to a
omunient ion of his in Ile Spartan
burg ierald calling a meeting of citi
zents to promote a, rat'road from Spar
tniburg, via Cross Anchor to ILaurens,
Clinton or New berry, "Tihis should in
terest your people" says dir. Thack
ston, "and a strong delegation should
alt end the ('ross Anclor meeting." .\l
details for strtvey, rights-of-way, col
lection of dIata. etc., will he aIrrantged
for at (hat mee ing.
tl' t'llowintg is the ('utnmnflttiealiot
of Mir. TIhaelkston to The Hierald:
'Thie New st,'llroadl.
"I':ditor of, The Hierald: .
For thie past 50 yvar"s ite peoplo
living in the terrhory from Sirtan
burg to Cross Anebor and points in
laturens county have from time to
time agitated the building of a rail-.
road from Spartanburg by Cedar
Springs, Stone, Walnut Grove, liobbys
ville, to Cross Anchor, thence either
to latrens, or to Olinton, or by Cross
Keys and Whitmire to Newberry. Sev
eral surveys have been made, the last
by the C. C. & 0. R'ilroad company;
but those surveys have been made by
outside interests and not by the peo
ple themselves. A movement is now
under way by the people of the terri
tory mentioned to have a careful sur
vey made, to secure rights-of-way, to
collect data about the resources of
the section, its population, industries,
mantfacturling possibilit.ies, and all
other desirable information, and in
corporate in a prospectus of a pro
posed road.
A general meeting has been called
for 'T'itesday afternoon, April 18, at
2:30 o'clock in tho high schtool build
ing at C'ross Anchor, and everyone
who is interested in the territory and
who would be benelited by the con
strection of such a railroad is urged
to atelld. l'y'er'y committtuntity should
be represented by a strong delegation
of citizens. The purpose of the meet
ing will be not. to afford opportunity
for speechmaking, but I. discuss a
purely btusiness proposition and to ar
lange plans for acolplislhing tho
thing desired--the building of the
t'Oilti.
"'The length of the proposed line and
(1to tie severalI term innal Jtoitts to the
soth wilt be applroIximlately as fot-.
lows: Sipar tanbuliirg to Cross Anch(or1
abou111t 2ttl mles; ('loss Attchloi to Ian u
tells abtouit 15 miles. to Clinton abtout
12 mtilesx, antd to1 ('ross Ky('s aboutit t
and( to1 Newbier ry abhottt ;i i liso, or,
itill itntiued ftrotm (litnton to Gr;een
wood, an1 additionlai 25 tiles; ort 1by
ext end intg the line ftromn (Ii nttn itt a
soulthetly (11rectiont to Saludtia. a oils
tance of 30 mniles. Anit nispcelt of a
coutttty map of Soulthi (artol in11 wilt
show that a r'ailroad fromt Spartan
burtg by (Crosn Anchor alndl(' lintoni to
Saludla woutld open up a splenldi see
tion now sadly lacking in transporta.
lion facilities. The lengthl of such a
lino would be about 65 miles. At Sa
ludoa connection would be mlade to Au
gusta, ColumbIa, Charlestotn and Sa
vannah.
"The tetritory thtat wvoutld he travels.,
ed1 in Spatrtanburtg couty is tile gr'eat
cot tonl-producing sect iott of the coutn
ty, and tile sur-faee (onditilts of mo1(st
(If the rote arei ideail for raliro i
constru'ct ion, reotititring little (It 11o
gradintg, simtptly the shap ing ul tp of the
roadbed0( and o the pu1tting downI of thit
(cro(ssties and( thte laying of the rails.
Tihe roadl can be tuil t trelat1.1voly chteal)
andl thte business thtat (canl be developl
ed wvoutld make it a dividenld-payinlg
invesotmentt. The people are' nlow do
ter'minedl to bild this road,. and~ Spar
tanburg shtoutld lend an encoutragt
hand.
"T. 13. Thauckston,.
"Cedar SnrinD. Aniril 8. 1916."
J. W1. DUPIRE IE1..
'rominent. (i.izein of lLurens ('<o unty
Died Fridity.
lIr. Jlasp~er Willingham Dul're a
prominent citizen of Laurens county,
died at his homne at Owings, on the
night of the 7th inst. at twelve o'clock.
The funeral services were held at his
residence at three p. m. April 8th, in
terment at Now Ilarmony Presbyteri
an cemetery near Owings.
Ile was 64 years old at the time of
his death which came very suddenly
as a distinet shock to his many
friends throughout the state.
lie was an elder of the Presbyter
ian church of Owings at which town
he has resided for many years and
figured prominently in the upbuilding
of the business, commercial and mo
ral interest.
Il leaves to mourn his death a
widow who was Miss Carrie Grice, al
so five children by his first wife, Mrs.
May Owings, Mirs. 1). Owings, Dr. Bob,
Dr. John and Claud DuPre.
Iural Policeman Reports.
Andy I. Boyd, one of the county ru
ral policemen, has submitted the fol
lowing report of his year's work from
April 7, 1915 to April 7, 1916:
Fines paid .. .. .. .. .. .. ..$882.65
Days put on chaingang .. .. ..3790
Cases to be tried .. .. .. .. .. ..11
Arrests made .. .. .. .. .. .. ..92
Arrests made for other counties ..5
W. M. U. Meeting.
The quarterly meeting of the W. 11.
U. which was to be held at Itabun the
3rd Saturday, has been changed to 4th
Saturday-April 22, owing to former
date coming so close to school fair.
Get ready and go to Rabun on the
22nd.
Picnic at Warrior Creek.
There will be a pienie in Mr. W. W.
Owens' pasture in the Warrior Creek
comniunity Saturday, April 15. The
public is invited and are asked to
bring basket.
.UliWRS ARE DRAWN.
Coulmon Plens Coir to t'oniene on
the Fourth Monday.
The court of common pleas will :on
vene Mlonday morning, April 2-1th.
Judge John S. WI lsoi is expected to
preside. The court is scheduled to
run for two weeks. The following jur
ors have been drawn for the first
week:
Laurens-L. Nye Owens, J. 11. Walk
er, C. P. Snoddy, J. '. LBrownlec, Jr.,
W. M. Caine, 1,. L. lilakely.
Youngs--F. M. Morris, S. J. Taylor,
PEgbert AM. Riddle, J. '. Edwards, A. R.
Nix.
Dials-D. T. Andrews, R. L. Stod
dard, W. Carlisle Holt, A. C. Nash, L.
A. Armstrong, F. F. llellams.
Sullivan-Hl. O. Walker, J. MI. Sum
erel, A. 1.). Mithell, L. F. Abercromble.
Waterloo-F. B. Boland, J. Wade
Culbertson.
Cross 11111-J. H. Rtudd, L. .1. Walt
kins.
Hunter-F. A. Buchanan, P. C. Work
man, A. J. Milling, 11. M1. Bryson, John
I. Hipp, J. A. Coleman, M. T. Motes,
C. E. Stokes.
Jacks-W. J. Henry.
Scufletown-L. D. Blakely, T. W.
Wesson.
Mr. Wade Pinson Improving.
Mr. Wade Pinson, who has been
very ill at the home of his daughter,
Mrs. W. I. Hamilton near the city,
has improved considerably during the
past several weeks and has been ear
ried back to his home,
PLAY AT TitINiTV-ItlDi)E.
To He UlIven Wei'Anesday, April 12th
for Jienefit of the School.
The play, East Lynn, will be given
by local talent, at Trinity Ridge school
house Wednesday evening, April 12, at
8:30 o'clock. A musical treat in store
for all by Mrs. Roper and Laurens
Quartott. The public is cordially in
vited. Admission 10 and 16 cents.
