pPL more and more, areinl DOLLAR DAY
thtthe mrning paper pre-WA
ments the whole news of the day at a $TOUOUOW $
time when there is the opportunity for Got tomorrow moranin.HRL
full and ui utastd readig. aH. IDan Iowa how uobl a dollar will do
NO. 3657. __WEATHER-FAIL WASHINGTON. D. C.. MON-DAY. OCTOBER 23, 1916. ONE CENT
21 MEET DEATH
IN LAKE WRECK
Captain Alone Saved, After
34 Hours on Raft.
(1y the IaternatieeaI News Service.1
Cleveland. Ohio, Oct. 22.-Another trag
edy of Iake Erie's "black Friday." which
Cost the lives of twenty-one men came
to light today, when a life raft to which
IApt. Walter Grashaw of the whaleback
steamer James B. Colgate had clung
sano she foundered, thirty-four hours
before. was picked up off Rondeau, Can
ada. and taken to Conneaut. Ohio.
Nbneteen men were sucked down to
death when the steamer foundered at 10
4e1oek Friday night off Long Point. op
podite Mia,
Opt. Grashaw's two comPanons on the
lift craft -re washed away just as the
rescue ship, car ferry steamer Mar
quette and Bessemer No. 2 came plowing
through the waves toward them. Gras
haw is the sole survivor of the Colgate's
crew of twenty-two.
The life raft to which Capt. Grashaw,
second engineer Harry Oesmann and a
coal passer clung. was sighted by the
wheelsman of- the Marquette this after
noon. The three figures. rope-entangled,
were prone on it, apparently lifeless.
The ferry steamer quickly directed her
course toward the bit of jetsam. Just
as she rounded to. an unusually large
wave swept over the raft As it receded
only one man remained.
Capt. Grashaw, whose home is in Cleve
land, had been master of the Colgate
only two weeks and neither he nor the
owners, The Standard Transit Company,
of this city, were able to give a list of
the crew.
News of the sinking of the Colgate was
flached to Cleveland and Mrs. Grashaw
'vrried to Conneaut.
She was led to her husbands bedside.
where she dropped to her knees and
obbed incoherently her thanksgiving at
or husband's rescue.
The tolgat.. threshing about In the
waves. 75 miles west of Long Point.
sprung a leak on Friday, the captain
said.
The big whaleback caught in the wal
low, began to fill rapidly and before
'nats could be launched. plunged. Nine
t1-n men were carried down in the mael
strom.
5EN. OZUNA IS SLAIN
IN FIGHT WITH VIlLA
orce of 2,000 CarranZistas Reported
Wiped Out by Rebels.
49y the ....n sse9J New. esvisee.
Snn Antonio. Tex.. Oct. 22.-Gen. Carlos
Izunas. "Onsidered the most loyal of the
Carranza commanders, was killed Friday
m -h- battle between Carranzistas and
Villista. et Palomas. near Chihuahua
f-ity. according to dispatches reaching
Jarez tonight.
The Villa forces were commanded by
Francisco Villa in person, said the Juares
dispatches. Dispatches from Chihuahua
City said Osuna was killed outright and
hi4 force of 2.00 Carranzistas annihilated.
Gen. Ynez Salazar aided materially in
bringing about the anti-Carranza victory
Dy making a successful flank attack.
Despite the claim of Carranzistas offi
als that they won the victory, the VIl
lista outpost near Chihuahua City report
ed that the Ozuna men were cut off in
their retreat to Trevino's capital and
were confined to the vicinity of Santa
Ysabel.
Gen. Jacinto Trevino and a large force
of Carranza troops have trenched them
selves at the Alameda. a suburb just out.
side of Chihuahua capital.
FRENCH "XINg OF AIR"
"GETS" 15TH 'PLANE
kdjt. Dorme Leads Allied Aviators in
Sky Battle.
(By the Isteraatioual News Service.)
Paris, Oct. 22.-Another day of triumph
for the allied aviators on the Somme
front marked the fighting of yesterday.
The day also saw another victim added
to the long list of Adjutant Dorme, the
new French king of the air. Near Bar
leux, this intrepid flier shot down his
fifteenth German aeroplane.
Tn all the fighting, nine German aero
planes were destroyed and nine forced to
descend in a damaged condition. Of
these eight were the victims of French
Aviators and nine of the British. One
was shot to egrth by anti-aircraft bat
tsries.
Against these losses only three ma
-hines--all British--are missing from the
1111ed aerodromes.
French aeroplanes' also carried out a
new raid on the Metz district and exten
live bombing operations against camps
and concentrations behind the Teuton
ines on the Somme.
CZAR PRAISES BULGAR TROOPS.
Sofia (via Berlin and wireless to
Sayville), Oct. 22.-In an audience
granted the special diplomatic repre
sentatives of the central alliance. Czar
Ferdinand declared the military situ
stion extremely favorable.
The monarch attache, great impor
tance to the events now taking place
in the Balkans, and warmly praised
the valor of the Bulgarian troops.
Czar Ferdinand is the picture of
health and is quite optimistic as re
gards the political, econornic and mili
tary situation of the central powers.
Entente Plans Railroad.
Psris, Oct. 22.-An entente railroad
T.,500 miles long, from Bordeaux to
Odessa. is planned to offset the Berlin
Bagdad line after the war, to elimi
nate Germany as the intermediary in
1tussian trade.
WANTED-AUTOS.
USED PORD OARS BOUGHT J03
* a. Urn G. 5. DUVALI, Mar. kals
DeWt., ilsa Gamgs, U3 G st,
There's a want ad for most every
other want in the classlifed ads
nage 3.
Kiss Wedding Starts
WeD; Ends in Court
Special to I'Ia asjhington Herald.
St. Paul. Oct. 22.-What's in a
name?
Not necessarily domestic blles,
according to John Kiss, machinist,
who yesterday brought suit in
District Court for divorce against
Mrs. Mary Kiss.
The Kiss marriage occurred in
October. I90. the husband states
In his complaint which charges de
sertion by Mrs. Kiss in February,
1913.
Helen, 6 years old, and KatIe, 2
years, also were abandoned by the
mother, Kiss charges. He asks
their custody.
TelegraphT
New York. Oct. 22.-Among the arti
cles of women's attire sold at the
SimcoX bankruptcy sale, was a gown
worn at the coronation festivities of
King George V, the original cost of
which was $750. It was made of red
and gold brocade with a stomacher of
Jewels.
New York, Oct. 22-The condition of
William M. Chase, noted portrait
painter, who has been seriously ill for
seversI months at his home, is im
proved. It was said today that he had
passed the critical stage of his ill
ness.
New York, Oct. 2.-Paul Louis de
Giaferri. of Paris, will lecture on fash
ions. covering the period from the fif
teenth century to the present, at the
Ritz Carlton Hotel on October 30 and
31. at a benefit to be given for children
who suffered from infantile paralysis.
New York, Oct. 22.-Following a
general alarm sent out by the police
on Thursday. for Mrs. Annie Rose.
85 years old, of Brooklyn, her body
was found at the bottom of a freight
elevator shaft at No. 62 Orchard street,
Manhattan. Part of the building is
occupied by her son, Morris Rose. head
of the firm of J. Rose & Co.
El Paso. Tex., Oct. 22-A little country
woman has told the International Dry
Farming delegates that they knew more
about raiing hogs than they did about
rearing children; that the government
spent $40.000 to study children diseases
and $90O,0 to study diseases among hogs.
San Francisco. Cal., Oct. 22.-Frst steps
in an attempt to solve the Japanese labor
problem on the Pacific Coast have been
taken, it has been announced here, with
the formation of nine Japanese labor
unions to affiliate in a separate Japanese
labor council. It was announced that the
movement would be extended through
out California, Oregon and Washington.
Winsted. Conn.. Oct. Z.-As an automa
bile containing sportsmen was speeding
along the Wakefield boulevard at High
land Lake two partridges flew direct
into the windshield, breaking their nects.
There were five birds in the covey, but
the others were lost to view in the woods
before the men could bring their weapons
into actiio.
Atlantic City, N. 3.. Oct. 22.-"Butter
milk and le cream are to be recognised
as important influences in solving the
liquor question." said Prof. G. H. Ben
kendorf. of the University of Pennsyl
vania. before the National Association of
Ice Cream Manufacturers at the Royal
Palace Hotel, attended by more than 600
fnembers from every State in the Union.
Winnipeg. Man.. Oct. 22-Flour has ad
vanced 20 cents here, making the price
19.40 a barrel for first patents.
Chicago, Oct 22.-Harry Wieland, 9
years old. is dead of injuries suffered
while playing football two weeks ago.
Northampton, Mass.. Oct. 22.-The total
enrollment of students at Smith College.
just completed, shows there are 1,993. of
these 667 are freshmen, the largest enter
ing class In the history of the college.
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 22.-John J.
Burns, of Harrison. whose neck was
broken by a dive into the Shrewsbury
River at Water WItch July 30, is dead at
the Monmouth Memorial Hospital. Mr.
Burns was in his 21st year.
Newton. N. J.. Oct. 22-For the fret
time in sixty years a bear Invaded the
village of Blakeslee, near here, killed a
calf and brought consternation to village
folk. Farmers are arranging to go gun
ning for the animal and hope at least to
drive him back to the mountains.
Rio Janeiro, Oct. 22.-The long standing
boundary disptue between the state of
Santa Catharina and Parana has been
settled. As a result of efforts made by
President Braz. the presidents of the
states have met and signed an agreement
definIng the boundary.
Birmingham. N. Y.. Oct. 22.-Announce
ment of an eight-hour day, effective No
vember 1, has been posted In the shops
of the International Time Recorder Com
pany. at Endicott. The new schedule af
fects several hundred employes and fol
lows the example of Endicott, Johnson &
Co., shoe manufacturers, whose eight
hour day will take effect on the same
date.
Winnipeg, Man., Oct. 22-The Canadian
Pacic trainmen's executive committee an
nounces that if conductors and trainmen
strike. permits will be Issued to union
men to operate troop and munition trains.
Connellsville. Pa., Oct. 22.-Irwin 3.
Henry, a blacksmith of Herminle. West
moreland County, was found dead In his
shop, his head and shoulders immersed
in a tub of water. It Is believed he suf
fered a stroke and fell Into the tub.
Salontki, Oct. 22-Mines. Cafandaris and
Aravantinos will be sent to the United
States shortly to recruit Greek and Amer
ican volunteers for the national army of
defense now being raised by the follow
ers of former Premier Venizelos.
Bethlehem, Pa.. Oct. 22.-Attacking his
wife with a knife as she lay sleeping in
bed. Nunso Marinillo slashed her in the
neck, cheat and thighs before she ran
sreaming tgom the house. 'Thea he slashed
his wrists, Both will recover.
Lebanon. Pa., Oct. 22-Charles, 9-month
old son of Samuel Little, of this cIty, died
today from burns wlich he suffered last
night in overturning a lighted lamp. whIch,
exploded. The burning oil ignited his
clothing.
Menonminee, Wis., Oct. 22.-Two little
sparrows caused every gas user in Meno
nilnee to go without gas for several hours.
The birds built their nest in the outlet
pipe of the water tank through which the
s is passed and clo==ed the pie.=
WOMEN IN MOVE
TO OUST BAKER
Resignation Demanded by Pa
triotic Societies.
The immediate resignation of Newton
D. Baker as Secretary of War was de
manded in a resolution endorsed by the
officers of eleven nation-wide patriotic
societies of women, at their headquarters
In this city Saturday. Secretary Baker's
utterances in an address, delivered in
Jersey City, on October 16. in which he
is said to have characterised the patriots
who followed Washington from Bunker
Hill to Yorktown as "thieves, church
looters and disreputable chq.racters gen
erally," constitute the resolution declares,
an "odious, unjust and untrue attack
upon the forefathers of America. the
founders of this republic and of the Dec
laration of Independence."
The following societies have endorsed
the resolution:
The National Society of the Daughters
of the American Revolution; National
Society of the Children of the American
Revolution; Daughters of the Founders
and Patriots; United States Daughters of
tI2; Legion of Loyal Women; Women's
Relief Corpe; Dames of the Loyal Legion; 1
National Lineal Society of the Spanish
War; Clara Barton National Memorial
Association; Ladies Union Veteran Le
gion and Society of the Army of the Ten
nessee.
Mrs. Mary S. Lockwood. founder and
chaplain general of the National Society I
of the Daughters of the American Revo
lution, when interviewed last night on
the resolution, said that she could give
out no information as to the circumstan
ces, time, or pace of meeting of the offi
cers of the societies in drawing up and
adopting the resolution, declaring that its
release for publication was hot intended
at this time, and that It had been dis
patched to Chicago for its release through
the offices of the societies there.
There is seen in the resolution a cul
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
SOCIALISTS OF FRANCE
URiE CONTINUING WAR
Resolution Adopted Protesting Against
Premature Peace.
By C. F. BERTELLI.
(Iaternationls News Service.)
Paris, Oct. 2.-Continue the war ener
getically; no premature peace, is the sub
stance of a resolution unanimously adopt
ed today by the radical Socialist pal ty,
the most powtrful group in Parliament,.
at the first meeting held by the party
since the war resolution was affirmed.
The party's Intention of preserving the
sacred political union of France was also
declared and admiration was expressed
for the achievements of the army. The
meeting also paid tribute to the munition
workers and urged the necessity of con
tinuing to enlarge the output of guns and
shells.
"The party rejects as Illusory, harm
ful and likely to lead to another war ,ny
peace which falls to fully re-esta b:kh
the rights of violated small nations.
which fails to restore the territory tory
from France and which fails to affort
this country the guarantees indispensable
to her safety," the resolution read.
TEN-YEAR SENTENCE
FOR BEGAR MINISTER
Member of Cabinet Convicted of
$4,000,000 Swindle.
(By the Internattenal News Service.)
Paris, Oct. 22.-A dispatch from Sofia
states that Former Foreign Minister
Ghenadoff, of Bulgaria has been sen
tenced to imprisonment for ten years at
hard labor following conviction on
charges of being implicated in a eystem
of graft which Involved the huge sum of
four million dollars.
The former minister also was charged
with high treason growing out of a ju
dicial investigation into the conduct of
the foreign office. It was alleged that
he sold out to Austria in his diplomatic
missions abroad.
His arrest on this charge was demand
ed but opposed bA the pro-German ele
ment. Because a he time Bulgaria was
under military control the case was re
ferred to army court.
Following his conviction on the graft
charge, the charge of high treason was
dropped and will not be prosecuted.
AGED SKIPPER SAVES TUG.
With Only Engineer and Cook Brings
Her to Port After Storm.
Detroit, Oct. 22.-Manned only by its
aged captain and two mtnbers of his
crew, the tug Shaun Rhue. of Detroit.
was brought safely to Pelee Island,
Ont.. this forenoon. The vessel was dis
abled in the terrific storm on Lake Erie
last night. When a tug went to the res
cue, early today, it is claimed that five
members of the Shaun Rhue's crew left
their ship and were taken aboard.
Capt. Robert Maines, 75 years of age.
refused to leave, and, according to re
ports received here, his engineer and
cook decided to stay with him. The skip
per steered his ship through the gale to
Pelee Island, while the other tug pro
ceeded to Kingsville, Ont.
GLOVES, PICKPOCKETS "OUEE."
New York. Oct. 22.-In the Morrisiana
Police Court yesterday Magistrate Brough
suspesded sentence in the case of Noah
Berus, 23 years old, a~ pickpocket. Blerus
told the court that the trouble with him
was his record. As soon as he was ar
rested, the police gave the record to
the court, and he was adjudged guilty.
Magistrate Birough, a week ago appoint
ed a probation officer to look into the
case.
Berus promised to wear gloves the rest
of his life to avoid the temptation of
putting his hands Into other people's
pocketa.
uday Outlag te Philadellphia,
$2.50; Chester. $2.25; Wilmington.
$2.00, round trip, Baltimore & Ohio.
7;05 a. mn., Oct. 29. iteturning same
4si.-Adv,
Koenig Pictures
Thrilling Dive
Of Deutschland
'The adanrs t e rst unda menemm.
mAD, Deatedbland, ae fuomed the asmbed t a
book written by hr ntresd -m-ma.,. OaPL
Paul Koenig, oe of the vdapters of whic I
erewith reprdeced by the International New
seris for the fiast dne in Ametia. The book,
.Lid, ha jnet been gubli'hed in Germany, has
:,osd a tremeadcus senation. Ho" the smoma
'ne dived lize a plummet and cased bow-on to
:he floor of the ooen, then tood on ber head
whirling dizaily, while a furious storm lashed the
crisce sd a Britah destroyer seared the sea In
maret of her we. is nwaled ia grapie detail.
By PAUL KOENW.
We were early to learn the im
portance of test submersions and to
find out how infinitely necessary it is
to have the great, heavy boat firmly
in hand, with a keen and constant
eye on all the infiinitesimal details.
I had decided that in the following
night, between the darkest hours, be
tween r and ir o'clock we would
travel submerged with the "E" en
gines.
In the dusk of a long summer day
we plunged downward; there was
only little wind, but the sea surged
high, a sure suggestion that within
a few hours the wind would grow
nto a storm.
About 2 o'clock I gave orders to
rise. As the boat rose to the surface
its movements became wilder and
wilder, which proved to me that the
storm had come and with it a still
higher sea. Occasionally we made
veritable leaps, but we calmly blew
out our "tanks" and got to the sur
race in a quiet orderly manner.
Sea Dances ,Wildly.
As we reached periscope depth, I tried
o look around, but It was still almost
impo.slble to see anything, for every sec
)nd or so the lanky weeds would cut Into
thick water mountains. Then, too, there
was the dawn, which made the waves ap
-ear even more uncanny and bigger
through the periscope as they rolled on
with their crushing force.
Then we came completely up to the
,urface. and I mounted the conning
tower to get a correct view of the wild.
[y dancing sea.
Fine weather this was,
Al laround us. in the misty dawn. was
t witches' cauldron of wavebergs with
roaming crowns, toys of the wind, whickl
blow off their water-dust and sent I1
-izzilng through the air.
The boat worked hard; It was a touplb
tussl. Frequently, nutshell that she was,
4he had to give way before the all-pow
;rful element. The whole deck was
ooded, of course. Every minute the sea
Im.-hed against the tower and, Its force
broken. prickled past me in a dense
-ray-rain. I clung to the rim of the
"bathtub" and searched the horizon-a
"';rious horizon it was, a mass of water
mountains moving stepwise in and oul
ine another.
Gets %igcht of Destroyer.
I was just about to give orders te
put on the oil engines. Alas! What
vas that --that dark stripe over there,
Wasn't that a smoke flag"
But it's already gone, hidden behind
he back of a rising wave rising Inte
:he dawn-gray sky.
I waited and stared through the
Klass till my eyes ached. There it was
again! It was a dark smoke flag. And
there!-look-a mast top, thin as a
ieedle-but I have It In my glass
knd now-now-I bore my eyes intc
he glass. What is it that comes oul
if the veil of waves-that dark thing
>ver there-the smoke above it-four
unnels?
Duennerwetter! It's a destroyer.
With one leap I am back in the tur
'et and have closed the lower hatch.
"Alarm!" "Submerge quickly!" "Flu
en!" "Depth rudder!. "Go to twenty
neters!"
The commands followed one anoth'
'r as in a breath. But their execu
:ion?
With this sea, to submerge headlong
s, according to all experiences, sheet
nsanity. But what will I do?
The destroyer might have seen ui
already.
Down we must go, and in as big a
iurry as possible, too.
Forced to Go Deeper.
Below me, in the "Zentrale," the mer
ire working in feverish, noiseless haste.
rhe rapid-airing vents are opened, the
-ompressed air hisses from the tanks
the sumberging valves are singing in all
keys.
I stand with tightly squeezed lips, gaze
through the conning-tower lookout over
the raging sea all about us, feverishly
looking for the first sign of going deeper.
But I still see our deck. again and
again a wave breaks upwards.
We have not another moment to lose.
"Dive deeper," is my next command,
and "both engines ex'Jeme power ahead."
The whole boat erembles and shakes
mnder the increased engine pressure and
makes a couple of real jumps: it literally
staggers in the wild sea-will it not go
town soon?
With a sudden jerk the Deutschland
larts down below the wave-tide and now,
)ending her bow lower and lower, She
-ap!dly descends into the depths. The
ight of the just dawning day disappears
Irom the turret windows, the manometer
shows in quick succession two-three
six-ten meters. But the bow bends lower
and lower,
Crew Lose Footholds.
We stagger, lean backwards. and slip;
s'e lose all foothold aso the boat Jergt
abruptly downward-I manage to grasp
:he ocular part of the periscope-and
town below in the "zentrale" the mneri
are clinging to the hand-wheels of the
iepth rudder,
A few terrible second. pass.
We have not yet realized our new sit
tation-there is a violent crash, we are
turned to the flgpr, and everything thai
ta not compact or nailed d own is throwrn
.nto a wild pell-mell.
Recovering from the shock we find our
selves In the moet extraordinary posi
Ions: we look at one another, and fot
Smoment there is sulien silence; ther
he first officer, Kr'apohl, aays quite
Iryly:
"Well, so we have a~rived."
That breaks the abominable tension.
But we all bad becong quite pale,
What had happened?
Why this unnatural bendIng of the
boat? and why did the engines above mt
rage so tcrrifically that the whole vesse
roared?
But before any of us could really re
gain his perspective, our little Klees, the
WnaIsram ON PAQ m.W..
RUSS DEFEATED,
TEUTONS CLAIM
Way to Lemberg Partly Open
ed-C7Ar Makes Denial.
(By the Isternatlonal News Service.)
London. Oct. 22-A sweeping victory on
the Halics front, key line to Lemberg
from the southeast, Is claimed tonight by
the German war office.
A fresh success in the effort of Archduke
Charles Francis to turn the Russian left
flank in the Carpathians also is an
nounced.
The blow on the Halics sector in Gali
cia was struck by Grman infantry under
command of General Von Gorok. accord
ing to the Berlin announcement.
After more than a week of thrusts at
the Russian front on the west bank of
the Narayuvka River, the Teutons
launched forward In a general assault on
a line from Svestalaiki to Skolorenhkl on
Saturday. They claim to have captured
the series of wooded heights in that
region and declare the Russians now have
:only a precatious foothold on the west
hank of the river.
Heavy losses were inflicted on the Rus
sians. who attempted a counter-attack. it
I, stated, and almost WO prisoners were
"ken.
A report from Petrograd states that
heavy fighting is still going on in the
sector where the Germans claim their
victory. So intense is the fighting that
positions are changing hands time and
again, the Russian war office declares.
and a decision has not been reached.
Stubborn German attacks are said to
,have been repulsed.
Archduke Charles' success is an
nounced by Berlin to have been the
capture of further passes in the Car
pathians. despite the utmost opposi
tion of the Russians.
The battle on the Narayuvka may
decide the fate of Lemberg. for the
time at least.
ROUMANIA CALLED WEAK
LINK IN AlLIED CHAIN
Entrance Into War Declared to Have
Been Mistake.
By WILLIAM BAYARD HALE.
(Internsatiasl News Service.)
Berlin, Oct. 2 iWireless via Sayville).
It has come to pass that Roumanla. whose
entrance into the war was expected to
strengthen the entente, Is now a chief
source of their weakness.
It was proclaimed around the world that
the entrance of Roumania anant freh
army of half a million valiant troops to
reinforce the entente, and meant, further
more, a tremendous extension of the ftrn1
the central powers were forced to defend.
It wras proclaimed that it meant the Ru,
Mans would over-run the Dobrudja. it
was proclaimed to mean that a source of
invaluatle food supplies was closed to the
central powers.
Within the last week these prophesies
have been brought to naught. The Rou
maniatis are in full retreat before Ven
Falkenhayn's victorious artles. Instead
of aIding the entente, Roumania is now
desperately calling for succor in every
direction.
Still more practical is the prospect of
the opening up of the tremendous supplv
magazines of Roumanla to the central
powers.
TEUTON FOOD SHORTAE
CALLED SOON TO WOMEN
Famous Singer Declares Fair Sex Is
More Slender.
(By the Isternationsal News Servee.1
New York, Oct. 22.-The Norwegia:
liner Bergensfjord arrived here today
with 1.015 passengers, with an unusua
story of the passage. Capt. Irgens said
the weather was so stormy outside Kirk
wall that his ship was unable to go in
side for over twelve hours,
At Kirkwall the .British authorities
held up the ship twelve hours while the)
removed 739 bags of mail, and seven bags
of certified Norwegian parcels post.
Among those on board was Freide
Hempl. the famous colorature soprano o
the Metropolitan Opera Company, whr
is returning from a brief visit to Ger.
niany. Speaking of conditions in that
country she said:
"There is a shortage of food In Ger.
many, but it is very beneficial to the
women, who are becoming thin and ele
gant. Wool cards have now been intro,
duced. My father had to run around al
day to get enough cards to purchase a
pair of trousers.
"Germany wants peace."
200,000 USE DRUGS.
District Attorney of New York
Makes Startling Report.
New York, Oct. 2-More than 20)
persons in New York City are addicted
to drug habits, according to a report is
sued today by the district attorney.
From Jaunary 1 to October 1, of this
year, 1,345 arrests were made for the sale
and use of narcotics.
In the same period, 1.100 were convictet.
Among those arrested were represetnt
atives of wealth and high standing It
the community,
AUSTRIAN LOSSES 4,400,000.
Rome, Oct. 22.--According to a re
port issu~ad today by the Italian gen
er-al staff, up to date the Austriant
Ilave mobilised 7,400.000 nmen betweer
the ages of 18 and 50.
In twenty-six months Austria's loss.
lea in dead and wounded and prisoner;
totals 4,400,000, Austria's present at
my, according to these offcial esti
mates, consist, of not more than 3.000,
000) otlcers a nd men.
KILLE AWAITING MOTHEE.
Bradford, Pa., Oct. 22-Edwin Id
Allen, 29, of Driftwood, employed witi
a brother at Port Alleghany, was kill
ed by a Pennsylvania train here thi:
.evening.
|The two brothers had gone to th'
train to meet thieir mother, who fo
some reason did not arrive. Edwim
IAllen stepped upon the track and wa,
knocked down and killed.
Most Trrible Year
Of War Yet to Come
(BY GEN. G. KALLETEMZZ)
Divisin s- nder Gen. Je911,
in the Ba. of the Msam.
(By Intermutema News se1)
Paris. Oct. 22.-We are only
the beginning of the end of the
war. The antagonism displayed by
the rival forces is such that only
the destruction of one by the other
can be conceived.
France must be prepared for the
third year of the war which will
be more terrible than the first
two. But It will be the last. we
hope. If the allies' effort is guided
by one hand throughout and if
they throw all their forces Into the
preparation for It, they will be able
to deliver the supreme blow.
TO PAY- MILLIONS
Norwegian Bankers Will Ar
range Payment of Sums.
(By the International News service.1
New York. u)t. =.-Four Norwegian
bankers atri iI here today on the Nor
wegian lines lergensfjord to make ar
rangements for t ! payment of huge
aums for niatert. purchased in the
lUnited States. ion Item alonc is M:'0.
000.000 for steamships constructed in
American shipbuilding yards.
These men in their interviews on ar
rival carefully IneLted that they were not
hesr a conmission. but as Ind:, dual.
4.t r I.assen..a. wever. ! -iar-u they
did form a c nomi-n.
The four Norwegian barkers are Knt
Bachke, Emil Sophus Dahl. and Gustav
lKamstrup H-egge. of Christiania. and
Trygve Barth, of Bergen. In discussir.g
the object of their misslon Mr. Dai!
said:
This is not a finan. ial commission. ne-r
do A. represent any bank or ba.ks.
though we are dire-torc of banks. Ve
are rather here individua:ly to better
tinancial arrangements between Norway
and the United States
"There are immense purchases being
made in this country that have to be pa:d
for. and among them is an item of $(.
w0.0C fjr ships alone. While here A
1 will look into general conditions with a
yiew to purcharim; railroad stocks. iron
and steel."
Equally as signincant as the arrival of
thi. commission Aas the presence on
board the Bergensfjord of seven Nor
wegian ste-mship captains They %re here
to take over a large nutmiber of tNr fright
steanwhip's that have been ba:lt in Ameri
can yards for Norwegian concerns
MURDER NOT SIGNIFICANT.
Diplomats Comment on Assassina
tion of Austrian Premier.
The Austr, -Hungarian and Germa.n rm
hassles attached no politl-al s.gnificance
yesterday to the assassination in Vienna
of the Austrian premier. Count Karl
Stuergh. They had no information con
cerning the cause of the killing
it was pointed out that Austria-Hun
gary has three prim miinesters, one for
each kingdom. and one in common for
.oth nations. Count Karl. it was stated.
had no more to do with Austro-H.n
gnrian foreign affairs than would the
Bavarian secretary of state In the Ger
man Empire.
AR.REMT THREE AS STABBERS.
Dying Allen's statement U a. that
Woman Wielded Stiletto.
Chester, Pa-, Oct. 2.--Three arrests
have been made for the stabbing case at
Marcus Hook that resulted in the death
of Peter Geroci in the Chester Hospital.
rnd sensational evidence is in the inds
of J. Borton Weeks, assistant !istrlct
attorney. woi tok the ante-in rrm
statement of the murdered man. Aho was
suffering at the tim from three s!ah
wounds of the neck, three in the abdo
men and two long gashes in the thigh.
In the statement of Geroci it is under
stood he charged Mrs. John Marico. or
Zoumani, with stabbing him while -.r
husband held him. The woman, her hs
band and a susplect are under arrest
$6,000 IN WALNUTS.
Rainstorms shook Them Down on
W. 0. McClintock'. Ranch.
Los Angeles, Ca. Oct 2.---ow tie
rainstorms the la.-t few days shook doAwn
Ko0i for V. 0. McChitok, a well-known
rancher of the walnut district, west of
Pomona. is brought to light in an ac
count of crop prosperity.
McClintock has a walnut orchard lie
has taken special care of the trees and
as a result. when the rain and w!:i
came, they left the ground ben-th th,
tiees cover-d with a thik mat 4f the
nuts.
ie weighed his crop and found that at
the present market price of the nuta he
has 36.000 worth.
COYOTE ATTACKS AUTOIST.
Reno. Nev.. Oct. 2-That a coyote that
will attack the front end of any auto
nbile, traveling thirty miles an hour.
allow himse'f to be run over and then get
up and attack the driver of the car who.
out of curiosity, stopped to see what
dlamage was done, must be mad, is the
opinion of P. Y. Giltaon, who enjoyed this
exp~erience in Lakevlew Hill1, near Car
son,. the other night.
The coyote was game, according to Gill
son, but was so badly cut up that it was
easily driven off with rocks before it bit
aniy one. Gilison was accompanied on
the trip by County Commissioner Hen
rich.
ARMY POST CLOSED.
Lander. Wyo., Oct. 22-Fort Yellow
stone, the post of troops, who, hereto
fore, have policed Yellowstone Park. was
closed as a military post yesterday, and
the 200 F'ederal troops stationed there
were ordered to the border. Thirty Na
tional Park rangers will take the placs
of the troops.
The-change p said to he in line with
the polIcy of the National Park's bureau,
to employ only civil officers to pollee the
park.
Boy, 17, Kills 2N.-Pound Bear.
looumsburg. Pa.. Oct. 2--Freeman
Temple, tC, yester'lay in the Emamona
section killed a miO-pound bear. It is the
j frst big bear of the =ea.o. hereabou~ts.
He *its ae.e. am. . mini - me
HUGHES ACCUSED
AS HYPHEN ALLY
Democrats Say O'lary Or"
ganization Has His Pledge.
(By the Iter"atiemal News senIte.p
New York. Oct -..-The I intoratic Na
tional Committee. in making public offi
cial minutes and proceedings of the Amer
iain Independenoe conference tonight. al
leged;
1. That It is a "secret racial organiza
tion under which Jeremiah A. O'Leary
and Lit assoiates have beeri masking
their nation-wide ampa,n in the inter
ests of (harle s Ehnr Puoi -
2. That a working agre-ement ith Mr.
Hughes and the Repubiea, National
Committee was reached between 8eptem
ter 7 and September S0 The agreement,
it Is charged. was made through a special
committee from the O'LAary organization
at a oonferenas attended by the Republi
can Presidential nominee.
Condition for HNubes.
X That a aondith n rf that -Tlmpact
:s that M. liathes .hte
British .!ba'g.. and , "' i-.- e
*.:hor I arr , 'F ,-;.11 h'- ... I
manI alnd 1,Is 1 ", ., 1, t.o. Gr a
ph.-dgo sup -;:t finm I .an h,
4 Tfat Atl - r 'r-- - ] Chen
Rooseso i ng'.-t 2r.. .
pr-Iit- h. a t - '
a; Irwis.st-n. 'Mt ndi~i
1iedg ! -hat ',I -
r..cl.: in F''i i . 0i
l ka, . r V
nie-ult.ng t r.
Jer niah ('Inry C r ee, !he prn
!,sentmnrt of *,h,. r-,ion
Interlocking Mienueri.;
That an a '-ex . -.
Ald, getral . u r- < h
.1d' ' g, t.-a1 1
-or.fer-.(.'- i, a memTlr if the .erAn
n _ C I or fe re nce N e"uti - : o m m-: t-.
Thit he c Ie- .-e a , r rm d
to dorir at,- -1 ovw"- I a .
re Jreside,-,-' n - m a
* -4cn 0f i e '4 . r .nd or . l it
Anglo- Saxon ir' T
That prese' and a .embe-s
fine erjitned 'o x1 tnd the oat
le--I7ariee to the F r 'rgiation - th-'r
h!ldren and their chl:ren'- .rn -
the oath ",f the vend ,ta
9 Thnt th- 0 Lear-y -, zamin a
stubec: to charter IQ' of -. itved
State, Statuter tov-6digfor the .ity
o. contributions.
CONFIDENCE IN BRITISH
DECLARED ON THE WANE
Report from Switzerland Tells of i.
creasing Bitterness Felt.
41y the Internattonal Neres 'ervie.}
L. -. isti-land. () t ^ -A p-r
i ea- t ho'row wii-mrfo--med of i..
rurr. Tir- in i inner c:re a ' '. Itn'
:ai g sernmen- mf< rma the -Pr'ond
"nt of the Tior-'alh o-n i> -e-pect to
italian and F-rch raittions -th Great
1ritain as f. :1
-ttlsy".o f-ith I- England's -trht i a
tot-aliy tarti-vr 7 >2-n* g it-r 'T *'
re-gaird to tha !!'uat2-n hA,, mIIu I
.-thcial -irc.-a im R- iii to -' amIiO'1 'li
Lope of rsic'an from 1;,-t l,:I tha
and a feeling of iniensee rrml !trent is
nowi breaking out.
-Even the viet of Minister rf War Pi
vid 1.1-yd George v as unst-!a i impro' e
the situation or rr-vIa' be '1' -- the '-.
ruate VI tnry of Englandti
A 'rll , ta'I- of fee;lnr t is Pe
serted. i nnw spreading out n Iravn
TEUTON AT'ACKS FAIL
TO PIERCE SOMME LINE
Pans Reports Defeat of Violent Coun
ter Offensive.
(By the Iternatiemal Neo %ervice.)
Pa-ri . <' t . -A -t 1. ' ---- n
r!do h.-ch-i y :1 - ;e-rma, so-utih of
th, Somm, has reU'-d I'. it the %ar
fice der. as as i dItrus f:a .
A fter a ntht .nd1 fl- noon of ei-rone
firhtiIg the F-'rech he. sa the po
ira owch w'e-. 7I r os:' n a
c-e f the- hem- ir nt batri - r n ,'-, m..
r dInight report .t . - '. ans
v I;,- . -1.d-id in r ,w'ill V- -1
Furro-rd-d i m:. - letem! * d oit
esxert for :' Tisrs.
On the .*,hOt i-e so i:th of the
Somme the (.-rrian. niade no effort to
"xtend the va. Which they claim to
have imale in it- f'.htinc y' terday
ELECTRTC FAN FOR FOWLS.
Ducks Quack with J03 When Water
la 5prayed Olier Themn.
C'alifornia. Mio. Oct 2--The birds on
a poultry pbant there are real high fiera.
They hiii one e- tn' 7' tr, thaot no me-nn
arch enab.ili hae Oe.i yed fifty years ago.
That conv~enien 0 is electrti- fans. The
fajn and nrunilr water have been in
I talled in the larg'- feeding station of
the A- B Cole & S-ons plant.
t'nder the- 'pray -of a fountain in the
feeding station is the favorite htauntt of
the ducIks atnd geese Tie management
has fournd tthe fan end water of econo
mic value, as it iavus the lives of mnany
fowls and makes fatten faste i.
the hont weather.
U. S. NOT TO FlOTFST.
Tie State Dep'artment, omnelals said last
rtht, will not protest against decrees
issued by Gen Carrana and ordering
summary trial and punishment of per-sons
ameused of crime.
A State Department offieial said:
"It ie not within the trovince of this
department to Interfere with the inter
nal administrastion of Mexico-a affairs.
If a casce a-'re-a, h-wer-i r. ii which there
it a mritearriage of justli-e and the rights
of an Amerrican are affected. thmis get
erniment wil Inteest hstat In ..s~ a
