NIGHT
EXTRA
it
ittmtmg
'FINANCIAL EDITION
stra?,
'.
iflttytt
NIGHT
EXTRA
toL.ni. NO. 31
TEUTONS TAKE
CONSTANZA IN
GREAT SWEEP
ipture Big Rumanian Port
v,in Dobrudja and Ap
proach Cernavoda
JT ROAD OF RUSSIANS
zure of Bridge Across Dnn-
f ube Would Open Way to
Hucnnrcst
i( herlin. Oct. 2.
jujeestanxa, Rumania's greatest seaport.
t (fallen beforo Field Marshal MacKen
a's armies. It was officially announced
I. .iinnnnn. Mnckensen's left wine Is
j5 spproachlng Cernavoda, the- "War Of
tie stated.
"capture of Constnnxa Is the greatest
mi r . . , .1... r-.,t-il rirjr
te acnicvemem. iui -.. .. -.-
riumanla entered .the war eight weeks
cl The victory l?Thalled by German
I .... . am nf mnr Imnnrlnnce than
MjWllur men , w. ....-
fen the rains mad' by the Allies slnco the
t gwsfne offensive began. .
Official dispatches from tne uerman nn
.,.i.r. wir omces Indicate that the
rjiwso-numanlans- hao suffered a disas-
ftnqt rout.
k li.. ...ikani ninnir tho Dlack Sea
b'eettt. Mackensen's army occupied first the
8....,i.n nort of Tuila and then swept
kasward' through strongly fortified Ilu-
nlan lines of defense, marcning iweie
f to Constanta In a. llttlo more tnan
a.. Th ranldlty of tho Teutonic
trance Is nccepted as an Indication that
, Russians and liumanians u;iiiTo ...-
llxed and made an extremely aisoruereu
At
On official statement from Sofia earlier In
day, reporting tha capturo or a village
..ii. rrttan!i- nremircd Der-
for news of a great victory. No surprlso
manifested here when it was announced
... . ...... 4V.A
t Uackensen han pusneu on uu i-
of tho old .Trajans wan "
.Htail nnnitonill ItRAlf.
iSnce Ilut)tuiia enterod the war, Russian
oris havo been bringing up Russian
bs, munitions and other war supplies
' the aid of tho Rumanians: Large
its of Russian troops havo arrived In
aula through the port of Constania,
4 capture by the Central Powers ef-
allv- nuta an end to the transportation
i reinforcements via .the Black Sea. .
n thlrtyflVe mile Cortstanxa-Cernavoda,
way, Uading acroaa tha panube, la tho
t .. nt.ly.t. niimanlL him derived
pn duantlty pf her supplies. Tho Teu-
idrlghV wjng W now astride that rall
if'it 'Constanta while Mackensen'a center
Eid' left wing are swinging forward to cap-
ga 11. . lj . aI At a. Hak 1 H?AAtA4
its me remainuer uii.io ivu. i..;-
l is aiming prinej)uuy ui vcmavuuo.
I ih rreat brides of the Danube, capture
' which would open the road to Bucha-
tUSSO-ItlMANIANS CONTINUE
RETIREMENT IN THE DUUKUDJA,
FETROORAD'S REPORT SAYS
PETROQRAD, Oct 23.
i-Th Russo-Rumanians continue their re-
nent In Dobrudja under enemy pres-
' rt, though offering stubborn resistance.
fit was officially announced today.
In the Trotus, Ortuz and Blanto Valleys,
; la Transylvania, the Rumanians attacked
.enemy and compelled a slight Austro-
eraisn retirement. In western Moldavia
Rumanians have been successful In
pHrtsaro fighting.
JFhe fighting on the Qallclan-Volhynla
tU slackening. Austro-Oermnn at-
'to cross the Boldurka, north of
r, were repelled by Russian Are.
IAMANS FALL BACK
r 45-Mm? pnnT. tutt
i TtfATVTJlIV T.TWI?C ITCTifVr
LONDON. Oet.'2S. .
ItR their lines still iA ntact. the' Ru-
i are being rolled back on a forty-
Mi front In Dobrudja under tre-
es. pressure by superior Qerman, Bui
i and Turkish forces.
U M tfce Rumanian capital the situation Is
d as serious, said a Petrograd dli-
i today.
ensen'a advance -ruards 'already
Proached to within less than .ten
t the Constanta-Cernavoda railway.
). carrylnr supplies Into Rumania
M road over which Russian troops
tea to Constanta have been
at Into Rumania, with II. in 7m.'
C, terminate, ts the objective of the
V Rumanian left wln anil rintrr
JMng way. Topralscrand Tutla, the
' -poruii-r porttlons or the Rumanian
fending the seaport of Constanta,
fcwaanian right wlrw, defending the
lly Important Danube bridge at
a, Is beating back enemy attacks.
Uw second time sines the Germans
M'sce Tbtrtewii Clun Tbre
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, OCTOUEU 2.), lf),l5
Corjuant. lBie. st tns rcmo ttneta CoHrtnt
phiob onjb ojbwtp
THE WEATHER
jOVSRNMWT FORECAST
bh Merfrlf mrthtt wind
SB::.':'. 1 .Si-slifc-S! i ri -
WABK! lUVW. TIB CMAK4MM
.( n i hiit H-m be ss-r-r
w (ir.ii us a. ... w t , u.i., 'ii ui r t
- - "- --i,f,fwi r m
wttrsaWTHm At 4ltt HWUK
Ull
l Ml Ul
:juM'
CdUNT KARL STURGKH
Austrlnn Premier, who wits assas
sinated in n Vienna hotel. f
MANY ARRESTED
IN VIENNA; TROOPS
PATROL STREETS
Discovery of Vast Plot Fol
lows Murder of Aus
trian Premier
ADLER SAID TO BE INSANE
orxkva. Oct. :j.
Tho assassination of tho Austrian premier,
Count Karl Slurgkh, has been followed by
tho discovery of a conspiracy against Aus
trla. Tho pollco and military nuthorltles
have already arrested a number of Polish.
Croatian and Bohemian polltlcnl leaders,
says a dispatch from Vienna today.
Vigorous measures hae been taken by
tho Austrlnn military authorities to sup
press disorders In Vienna and Budapest.
Soldiers are patrolling the streets of tho
two capitals.
Trlnce Hohenlohe-Schllllngfurst. Austrian
minister of Interior, who will act ns prem
ier until tho successor of Count Sturgkh Is
appointed, has nlready assumed his new
duties. It Is expected that a new prime
minister will bo appointed this week.
' Dr. Frledrlch Adlcr. Uie ismtn I.
Jail under n heavy guard. Artier defends
tho shooting of Doctor Slurgkh on the
grounds that It "was n political necessity."
There hrtvo long been mutterlngs of re
volt against the Austrian Government
among the Bohemians, Croatian and Poles.
Whether or not Adler will bb brought
to trial Is uncertain. If It Is decided by
the authorities that he Is Insane ho may
be committed to an Institution for life.
Among those prominently mentioned as
Count Sturgkh's successor are Prlnco
Hohenlohe-Schllllngfurst and ex Premier
Count Beck. The Indications are that Ger
many will attempt to take advantage of
the opportunity to strengthen her Influence
over the Austrian Government by having
an adherent of German policies appointed
VIHNNA, Oct. 23. Dr. Frledrlch Adler,
assassin of Premier Sturgkh, was arraigned
before a Magistrate today for preliminary
Investigation and made u statement that he
had no accomplices.
"My act was the logical result of my
pollt!6al convictions," said Adler. "I took
that attitude because of Austria's great
crime In unloosing this terrible war. I did
It with full knowledge of tho responsibility
I assumed. I accept my destiny. So qne
aided me. It is useless to search for Imag
Jnary accomplices. Besides, I have decided
VILLA SURROUNDS
CHIHUAHUA; ROUTS
CARRANZA'S ARMY
De Facto Troops Driven to
Outskirts of Post b'y
Bandits
FIRST CHIEF IMPOTENT
Accused of Pnckinp; Assembly in
Order to Keep His
Sent
Continued on fate Thirteen, Column Tho
EI, PASO. Tex.. Oct. :J. Vllllsta bAn
dlts have surrounded tho western sldo of
Chihuahua City, after drllng the Mexi
can do facto Government troops Into tha
outskirts, and another attack upon the
northern Mexico capital Is believed Im
minent, says a report reaching United States
Government departments hero today.
Verification of thH is lacking and Car
rania olllclnls still Insist that de facto
troops nre driving the bandits toward Santa
Ysabcl.
WASHINGTON, Oct. 13. Reports re
cehed here today that Francisco Villa and
hli army have reached the environs of Chi
huahua have convinced officials that, true
to his word. Villa Ih ngaln ready to attack
that city. When Villa, after having defeat
ed Trovlno's forces and captured Chihuahua
on September 16, Mexican Independence
Day. retreated from the city, ho declared
he would return.
Ills arrival ngaln without molestation at
the floors of Chihuahua has led War De
partment ofllclals to believe that Cnrrnnia's
control of Chihuahua Is entirely gone. For
weeks past relations between Carranta and
General Trcvlno, his Chihuahua commander,
have been at the brenldng point.
U.VABLi: TO STAND.
So strained Indeed have relations been
that Carranta has not trusted Trcvlno suf
ficiently to Is;ue to him the ammunition
needed In his defense of Chihuahua. The
result has been that Villa's forcea have
made repeated attacks on suburban towns
with scarcely a show of defense on the part
of the Cnrrnntlstas.
In view of the weakness of Carranta's
c.-iuso In Northern Mexico It Is not be
lieved that lie personally can much longer
retain tlie reins of government. It had been
believed, up to a few days ago, that Car
ranta had some show of power In Southern
Mexico, but this was dispelled when it was
disclosed, to the dlsconflturt of ih Mexican
commissioners at Atlantic City, that all
Mexico, even the capital, itrclf, was under
martial taw, no rumiessiy is tne military
reglmo' mafnjalncd that men. women and
children are haled beforo firing squads and
shot down without the semblance of a trial.
"PACKING ASSEMBLY"
In the midst of this reign of terror
Mexico, at Carranta'n dictation, yesterday
held a constitutional convention election,
the first attempt at nn election In more
than three years' time.
Dcsplto Its bloody setting, Carranta will
contend that the will of the Mexican peo
ple ngaln has been freely expreiied. As
a matter of fact, no one was permitted
to vote who had ever taken sides against
Carranta's cause. It Is said here.
The feeling persists therefore that Car
ranta has packed the convention which
will meet December I to ratify the various
decrees through which Carranta has en
forced his w'll In the absence of any legis
lative assembly.
Confirmation that Carranta's wife, ac
companied by Senora Arredondo, wife of
the Ambassador-Designate to the United
States, has sought safety In flight Into the
United States "on a sight-seeing tour,"
was taken as probable forerunner of the
abandonment of Mexico by Carranta himself.
g7!3VSaggggW
I. -el Jr wT i&H
fV KmW7 SsflsBBBBV
ggV ' isflggggflUhW
gB gHF
igH v Xftgggsgfei
gBBflL SSFf Bg
gBgRH wigggs
SURGEONS IN CONGRESS
Dr. John R. Denver, of this city
(above), nnd Dr. Chnrlrs II. Mayo,
of Rochester, Minn., will be nmomj:
the prominent speakers. The latter ,
will deliver his address ns rctirinu
president this evening.
CANCER CURABLE
IF NOT DELAYED,
SUR'GEONS AVER
Congress Bulletin Asserts
Early Action Means
Probable Recovery
MANY CLINICS-HELD HERE
West Brownsville Coal Plant Burns
unOWNSVILLU Pa., Oct, 23. Fire to
day destroyed the plant and tipple of the
Diamond Coal and Coke Company near
West Brownsville. Tho loss was SISS.OOO,
ROOSEVELT SAYS BAKER
IS "EXQUISITELY UNFIT"
"By No Means as Astute as Wil
son," Colonel TellB'New
Mexico Audience
BUILDERS FAVOR BOOST
IN SUBURBAN TAX RATE
Discuss Establishment of Parity
Rates 'With Finance Com
mittee Chairman
ALDUQURIlQUn, N M., Oct 23. Colonel
noosoelt fairly ate his way through Al
buquerque, New Mexico's largest city, today
Due 'for a five-hour stop, he was given a
breakfast reception from 8 to :30 and a
noonday banquet after he hod spoken at
10 "a, m. "His speech was "largely devoted
to an attack on Newton D. Baker, Secretary
of War.
"When men occupy an Improper and un
patriotic position and seek to Justify them
selves by precedents from tne past t is
almost impossible for them to aviod mis',
representatlng the facts they desire to quote
In their own favor," the Colonel said.
"President Wilson's po-Uon and action
havo been entirely Justifiable from the
standpoint of those who Juattfy the poaWlowi
and actions of Present BuoJanan. Hut
It la utterly lminl to defeed Hn con
duct of rrssUjMrt Wilson, ae by IhImm
tlally condemning the conduct ot iwh
Presidents as WsfclntOH. Jackson and
Lincoln, If President W1ob'J bahayter
toward tCrmapy. and aaoeclaUr toward
Wetico: If U attitude in bh our ltr
rMtUxwtl and Internal affairs are prsr.
tkn Waaklwrton, Jsckson and Usoohi aU4
tiMlintirrlr In upholding and savin Umt
Union sad defending our position ugalnttt
for4 watWrai by their readiness" and ab4.
Ity to ue wc.
"Mr. ItaWw Ufi reUr
fcMWMi spMct.es U U Wsms Mt,
iutott. Mb) aKort Is to defend Mr. Wit-
sua' attitude toward uarranaa aa urn
uim. haiutits nasrally by alleging that
Washington and l soldUr stood on awaW
kiantuOiy the a - H U a i
-j astute as
r iii
Plans for boosting the suburban realty
tax rate to a parity with the city rate, to
be decided by Councils next month, were
discussed today by Chairman Oaffney, of
the Finance Committee, and a committee
composed of members of the Operat.ve
Builders' Association,. ,
The builders, represented by John II, Mo
Clatchy, Daniel Crawford, Jr., Harry H,
Heist, Harry Urockelhurst and John B.
Mayer, declared themselves a unit In a de
sire to abolish the present suburban rate
of 69 2-3 cents and assess all realty in the
future at the farm and city realty rates
fixed for future years. This plan, they con
tend, would result In an Increase In revenue
from realty taxation that would go far
toward offsetting present high prices for
labor and materials needed by the munici
pality. Chairman Oaffney assured the builders
that their plan for only two classes of realty
taxation meets with the hearty approval ot
Mayor Hmtth and other municipal ftnanclera
and that It would have careful seftsider.
tlon when (he tpiwtlen ot luereaaed revenues
and new methods of taxation are, takwi up
by tha Mayer and. Councils next month.
The builders were told that tha scheme
o auolleil suburban rata has 'long been
under consideration, but (hat H Is only a.
part of the admlnbMraitea plan to revise
present tax methods is ctforoed by the
Hoard of RtvWon of Taxes.
Both side of the conference took up the
question of the neoeaalty Hr fcglsUtlv
enactments before ay material obanaea In
utwssat methods of taxation oaa be na4.j
ad It was urred.tbat remedial meOioddl
eanaot be eororoM eariMr than llll, It
waa virtually agreed Utat any but looklat;
toward tax reviatoa. to ha iatrodueed at ife
winter aeastaa f IsM I OflgsaAwre. with (ha
!
"-.imrm'T
Cancer can becurcd, If .treated In'tlme,
,ThU( announoemcnt. was mnile .Hl the,
Benevue'stratFord " totiay ' in tha'TlrsT bulled
tin Issued with the opening of the sevunth
annual convention of the Clinical Congress
ot Surgeons, which brought 1800 surgeons
from all ports of the continent to this city
today.
The bulletin, which I" the method adopted
by tho comentlon In publishing tha con
sensus of authoritative opinion, urged per
sons who may have cancer to subject them
selves' to an early examination.
"If cancer is operated upon early enough
It can bo cured," It read. "Cancer is a
local not a blood dls'tase,
"Ten years ago seventy-five per cent of
concer sufferers camo too late for treatment
nnd died. Today seenty-flve per cent come
In time, and of these forty per cent are
cured."
Iladlum and X-ray treatment wcro char
acterized as merely accessories to the opera
tion. Women with small lumps on the breast
and men with lumps on the lip or tongue
were urged to undergo exuminat'ons at once.
Small cancers of the stomach often were
wrongly diagnosed as Indigestion, It was
said, and the proper treatment was with
held until It was too late.
CITY QlttSAT MKDICAI CIJNTKIl
The bulletin, which Is the crystallised
opinion of all the surgeons In attendance,
Including the most distinguished practition
ers In ths country, also praised Philadel
phia as one of tho four great medical cen
ters. "People here little realise In what a won.
derful surgical center they lle," It read.
The clinics began toddy In twenty-three
hospitals In the city. They were "show me"
clinics, not "tell me" meetings, actual opera
tlons being carried on by Philadelphia sur
geons before the eyes of the visitors.
Three types of operation for cancer were
demonstrated today. Dr J. It. Jripson and
Dr, John Speese operated for cancer of the
breast and Dr. V. T. Allen and Df, J. S.
Hodman for cancer of tho rectum at the
Presbyterian Hospital. KxcUlon of , tho
tongue was demonstrated by Dr. Francis
T. Stewart at the Jefferson Hospital.
The new president, Dr. Frederick Hates
Lund, of Iloson, will be Inaugurated In the
Continued on I'sse feur, Column Three
CAIl HITS FATKOL-AMBULANCK
Injured Man In Wagon Into Which
Trolley Crashes
A patrol wagon ot tha Fourth street and
Snyder Avenue station containing an Injured
Irian was wre&ed this morning In a collision
with a northbound KleventM street trolley
car,, Tha accident happened at kleventh
and Mimta streets while the patrol was on
Its way 'it StAAgnes's Hospital.
The Injured man was George Wenlclc.
forty-flve years old, of American and Rltner
streets, and employed at the yard of the
Philadelphia Whip Hepalr Company, located
at the feet of MKWn street. White working
la the yard he accidentally fell off a plat
form ana Me face and back were Injured.
Weftlek waa rendered unooaseleue when
the ear crashed Into the patrol. He wee
nlaeed la an automofelte owd by Mat
UafSer, an-awalaer manufacturer. Klfhth
aad MJsttia atreeis, who teoef.iiM o li
swajritaj.,
1W trteer and two r-f'inun vfco
s u fttfeJ escaped iaiewy.
QUICK NEWS
EVEN MONEY ON PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
"NEW YORK, bet. 23. There was n heavy offering of Wilson
money on tho Broad street Curb thN afternoon with tho result that
heltfnjr on tho election switched to oven money late in tho day.
Knrllcr In tho day tho hetllnj; wni ten to eight In favor of Hughes.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Laurel race, maiden 2-ycar-olds, 8 1-2 furlongn Sargou
ir, 105, Ball, ?13.40, 5.50, 1.30, won; Al Hudsou, 110, Byrne,
$0.00, ?3.00, second; Blight Star, 105, J. McTaggart, ?0.20, third.
Time, 1.08.
Second Laurel race, -l-year-olds and up, steeplechase, selling,
about two miles Racebrook, 147, Noc, ?10.00, ?0.20, 93.00, won;
Mesach, 130, Tansey, ?14.10, ?0.50, second; Dlxou Park, 143, Wll!
HaniB, $3.20, third. Time, 3.02.
DECEMBER WHEAT SELLS AT 51.75 A HUSHEL
CHICAGO. Oct. S3. December wheat sold nt J1.75 n bushel and May one-clglrth
of u cent under Unit figure today, luhimcltiK four cents, nmld scenes of excited buy
ing In tho wheat pit. These nro tho highest prices ulnco tho Leltor deal of 1808.
Speculators scrambled to buy In tho belief that Ahe crop nhortngo sltitntlnn Is becom
ing more acute.
DU PONT AND AETNA COMPANIES TO MAKE DYESTllFFS
WASHINGTON, Oct. 23 Tho tlu l'ont Powder Company nnd tho Aetna Kx
plosive Company, two of the largest munitions concerns In tho country, today
announced tho completion of pinna for trnnnformliy; all extra plants Into dyo manu
factories with tho close of tho war. Plans wore perfected with tho assistance of
Dr. V. D. Norton, ile expert ot tho Cummcrco Department, lloth concerns have
built largo au.sllluiy plantH hIiico tho wnr lioKan to meet tho enormous demand for
munitions, '
COTTON SOARS TO NEW HIGH RECORD PRICES
NIJW YORK, Oct. 23. New high prices were recorded again on tho Cotton
KxchaiiKO today by till dcllvrrlen dutinn u wild session. July sold up to 19.19 a
pound, ns advances of more than $3 a bale over Snturday'8 closing prices wero made.
HUGHES STILL 10 TO 8 FAVORITE ON CURB
NHW YORK. Oct. J3. According' to tho betting1 commlssloncm on tho Curb,
tho supporters of Charles K, lluglios want even money, wltllo tho Wilson supporters
uro holding out for 10 to 8. Jlcttlng continues light, only a small sum being placed
this morning on Hughes nt 10 to 8,
ELLIS, WIFE SLAYER, NEAR DEATH IN HOSPITAL
William Howell Kills, who shot and killed bis wife, Mm, Augusta Wllloughby
Kills, In their homo at Hollyhock Farm, Uetblohetn plko near Rannockburn avenuo,
tho night of October 7 and yho then shpt blmsclf, 1b bcllovcd ta bo dying today In
Chestnut Hill Hospital. Dr. J. Murray Kllzoy, tho family physician, who h'ae been
attending him jlnco tho trafiedy, now believes his patient cannot live. Ellis bad
Balned strength and appeared, (9 .boBraduallvlrnpioxlaSioV.that-anilapso.haa
c6mThl clratlT Is expected momentarily, "T " '.
LAKE ERIE STORM DEATH TOLL REACHES FORTY-EIGHT
CLUVULAND, Oct. 23. Probabio toll of liko Krlo'a UlacH Triduy storm Jumped
to forty-olght tot'ny vltli the r-rrlvol In Toledo of tho' steamboat Matthowa with
three boden frcn tho foundered vessel Merldu and a report that four other bodies
from the sumo boat hud been recovered.
EXPRESS COMPANIES' INCOME INCREASED 100 PER CENT
WASHINGTON, Oct. 23. A 400 per cent increase In tho operating Income of
nlno lntcrstato express companies during tho fiscal year of 191G over tho fiscal year
1916 waa reported by the lntcrstato Commorce Commission today. Tho figures wero
$10,660,000, against $2,556,000. A total of $176,000,000 was collected during the year
as express charges.
magistrates
lose control
in Vice cases
Blow to Bondsmen Who
Prey Upon Women
of Streets
CLIQUE OF LAWYERS '
ALSO GETS SETBACK
Municipal Court Held to Be
Proper Place for
Trials
"RUNNERS" LOSE GRAFT
COMMERCE BOARD MAKES FIRST RAILROAD APPRAISALS
WASHINGTON. Oct. 23. Tho Interstate Commerce Commission today an
nounced Its first physical valuation of railroads, placing- the value of tho Texas
Midland Railroad tentatively at $3,382,001, nnd tho Atlanta, Hlrmlngliam nnd Atlan
tic at $22,716,886, TIicfo arc the costH of reproduction Tho Texan Midland, less
depreciation. Is valued at $2,627,417, tho Atlanta, Hlrmlngliam and Atlantic nt
$18,071,960.
NEW CANADIAN CONTINGENT DODGES U-BOAT
IIALU-'AX, N. S., Oct, ;3. Tho Nova Scotia Highland Urlgado and sovcrnl other
Canadian units, totaling 276 olIlccrH and 6629 men, havo arrived safely in England,
It Is officially announced. Tho sailing of tho transport from this port on Octobor
13, five du)s after the German submarine U-63 bad mink five vessels off Nantucket
Island, was a military secret.
STRIKERS FIGHT POLICEMEN; TWO MEN HURT
riTTSIJURGH, Oct. 23. Two men wero Injured in a revojvor Ijattlo between
striking mlnei-H and policemen nt Crclgblon late yesterday, when several hundred
strikers wcie being addressed at an open-ulr meeting by John. I. White, national
president of tho tfnlted Mine Workers. Martin Wallah,' a miner, waa shot In the
neck. Guy Dalloy, a deputy sheriff, while trying to place a miner under arrest,
was knocked down and trampled, Buffering u fractured rib.
JOHN II. McFADDEN BUYS SEVEN MORE OLD PAINTINGS
John H. McFadden, millionaire art collector of Philadelphia, hue purchased
seven moro old masters: in Kngland, nccoidlng to dispatches today from Iondon.
Among the purchases nro "The "Constable," "Tho Dell at Ilelmlnghntn," which wae
the gem pf the Joseph collection, also tho Raeburn portrait of filr Alexander Shaw,
Two Romneys ore among the purchases, the moro Important being the beautiful
portrait of Ijidy Grantham, painted In 1780-81 and bung at the late Ixird Cowper'a
eeat.
STATE'S WHEAT CROP 25,070,500 BUSHELS
HARRIBHUHd, Oct 28. Pennsylvania's wheat, rye, oats and buckwheat crops
failed to bear out early estimates made as to yield, according to a summary of crop
reports Issued by the State Department of Agriculture. The wheat crop la estimated
at 26,070,600 tyuhels, against 24,928,009 last year, llvo la calculated at 4,486,400 bush
els, compared to 4,672,000 last year. The oats crop s estimated o$ 33,671,000, against
43,096,000 last year. Late estimates put the buckwheat at 4,200,000 bushels, Mills
6,640,000 Is the figure for 1915 A rorn crop of 47,600,000 bushels Is predicud,
NAVY OPENS WARSHIP BIDS WEDNESDAY
WASHINOT6N, Oct, 23- Rids will bo opened next Wednesday for the building
of four battleships and, twenty destroyers. Crampe and the NewYork Bhlpfetrtldlng
Company has submitted bide. The plans for these veseeta haye been prepared fa
three months and advertised for sixty day. ,
$700,000 RELIEF SHIP TO GO TO ARMBNIA
NKW YORK. Oct. 28. A cargo of foodstuffs UHd clethlinc' valued at $7M,M4
wWl be sent, probably this week, aboard a United ittattee navy colli to Beirut
Syria, for the relief of refugees, It was, announced here tottit. The tT-?rno9 to.
President Wlleon's proclamation, making Saturday and Sunday Armentan-slyria
relief days, has been generoue,
WORLD'S WIAT CROP DOWN 3f PMR C1NT
HOMIC, Oet 2J. The total whet karveat of the warid 1st sntlmalsd by u
IntswHfttwl ArieuHbrl' Institute a Mveu vr eeut belaw avareun sju
tweato-Uve jmr eesit below that of bat ytser. Toe lt!lute'e reaxirt Ueludea tor Um 1
m. tHM t ere e JPuroon Russjia. wWesj K NVtlMM U be twenty per
UhU w Ms year.
Superior Court DecisioR Mean ,
UufortURntcs Will Be Cared
for by SetlemcRt Workers
t
A smsshlng blow was dealt, to the rilHf '
of profess:onnl bondsmen who for years
have been preying Upon the earnings of
women of the streets, today when Pres4
dent Jujtgo Orlsdy, of the Supreme
Court, ruled that magistrates no lonfer
hao jurisdiction oer women who are ar
rested by tho vice equad. Judge Orlady, ia
his decision, saya that the Municipal Court,
created by the prollons of the act ot June
12, 1913, and the amendatory act ot June
17, 1916, was the proper tribunal before
which street walkers should be arraigned.
Settlement workers said Judge Orlady's
decision meant that "runners" for a certala
clique ot lawyers and professional bonds
men would be unablo to Interview pris
oners. The decision, according to a proba
tionary officer of the Misdemeanants' Court,
also meant that Instead ot Imposing fines
upon street walkers, they will be placed
under the care ot trained settlement
workers.
Heretofore, records show that many
women arrested on the streets, after befng
fined In Central Station would return to the
thoroughfares. When they were arretted
they frequently admitted they Were com
pelled to go back to the streets to settle
with their bondsmen or lawyer.
TEST CASK OP A, WOMAN s
Judge Orlady's opinion was handed down
1n the ciso of Florence y,lson- who had.
been Kentenced to serve nine months In, he
House, ofCorrcctlon by Maclirate Beatoa, i
under the old act ot June 2;M87l."
Counsel for Florence Wilson contindd
that the old act of S7)'wwr repealed "ibjr
Implication when tha Municipal Court est
was passed, together wth the 1916 amend
ment, nnd the case was appealed to fhs
Quarter Sessions Court. Judge Davis sus
tained the nctlon of Magistrate Beaton.
After reciting the provisions of the Mu
nicipal Court. President Judge Orlady sya
that the Municipal Court act and the ltlt
amendment "Is simply one of the many
forward movements In caring for the un
fortunates." Tho Judge also points out that the Legis
lature of 1916 mutt have had In clear
vle&r the, provision of the old act of 1871
and tho Municipal Court act In making
the amendment, as the act of 1B15 Is la
direct and Irreconcilable conflict with the
provisions of the act ot 1871 as to juris
diction, procedure, penalties, places ot de
tention and care of pereona under confine
ment,' a welt as the term of their Imprison
ment, so that the acta cannot stand to
gether, and It was clearly the Intention of
tha legislature ot 1916 to repeal the ofd
act and place exclusive Jurisdiction over .
all such cases In the Municipal Court.
EFFORTS TO AID PRISONERS
The decision of; JudgqOfltdy means that
women of the streets no longer will be ar
raigned In-Central Station, where they have
been tried, following' an order by Director t
of Public Bafoty Wllsqn. In the future '
such women arrested In any part of the oty
will be arraigned in the Municipal Court ,
When arraigned they will be placed In the
care of probationary officers, who will In
vestigate their cases and Instead of Impos
ing prison sentences upon thrm, efforts wlH
be made to secure employment for them.
Former Judge James a ay Oorden and
George Qulntard Horwltx, reprseeatlag the ,
Municipal Court, who haye beea wagta a
legal battle to wrest power from, the magte- '
trates n the cases ot wpmen ot the Mreeta,
contended that It the old system of arraign
ing such women "was continued, ft meant
that the municipality Would continue te ac
cept from them tha price of their wrong in
the shape ot fines. " ' f,
RESCUE WORKER PLDA8KD ""
The Rev. T. W. WcKenty, wfce fer twelve
year Has-been superintendent of tne Men-'
cue Mieelofl at Eighth and Vine JMts and
during that time1 baa helnsd to tonne aboe
treformatlftn of hundreds at warned of
the streets, said todny that tne deeMon f--'-Judge
Orlady would, help a treat dead" ft)'
eliminating the vice evit,
"Net only" whi the datlslaw nf J
Orlady," said tnl Rev, Me. MetUaty,
of greet Jietp to Ike wemew of tan
but'H ateo manna' that tne raven ssfl
certain etfawa 'of lawyar s nnd
WWfl'n'PseJt'Wl 9y We) Wnt WW MnWQ BBsl
lyeeaen of tne street tell ate tnat ttj rap,
sen that nef nteynsd to the ntseeu evfhw
belng.aned or being reUased trm ptimm
wnsibaeauee they wanted to earn nifnslii
mener to par the map." who ballad thew
ot. rrleon anal mots and anas wtu navef
ratotaa a wwsmmi ef the atraat I
araat etoal watt he Mownitltahad as a
mm I
fu
PMteuB IvfMt VittiM Mm
Pi-rnfMUtaUM. Oat, Jl tadwtn Ye
ninetnen rewre aw. lien hare from m
m xm
ZjU&, J.?'
M .w. , j V . A .
mshn
