-r ? . : : ~ W} i I i
i
\ ' .
!!s&! Wc\t jfoertinuSfaf. sum .
'- h" 1 f y ff J y^_J r y 5w?ra Wet Circulation, Month of September.
CLOSING NEW VORK STOCKS PAGE 14, ^ 19,#' D*tl7 Average. 74,820; SnaCay. MACS.
No. 29,48a WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, OCTOBER 23," 1916.?EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE GENT.
BOTH SIDES TRAIN
BIG GUNS ON WEST
Democrats and Republicans
Making Special Effort to
Capture Silent Vote.
IL.
UNCERTAIN ABOUT WOMEN
BY N. C. MESSENGER.
'fill'AGO, October 23.?Big1 guns of
both political parties parked in Chi
<-ago over Sunday are being deployed
today in the surrounding field of batHe.
including Illinois and neighboring
states. Secretary .\lcAdoo. Secretary
liaker. Secretary Houston. Senator
Taggart, Senator Kern. Senator Lewis.
tTiarles Warren Fairbanks, the republi
can canuiuate ior \ ice * resident, aim
Raymond Robbins. the progressive
leader, were here nudv are now departing
upon their respective itineraries.
The democratic spellbinders are very
jubilant. Senators Taggart and Kern
came in from a drive through the industrial
towns of northern Indiana, in
vhioli Secretary M< Adoo and Secretary
Houston also participated.
To The Star's correspondent. Senator
Taggart said that the reception given
all the speakers convinced him that
the republican manager;', wore wrong
in their belief that organization had
out Indiana in the republican column.
Say Tide Turns Toward Wilson.
All day yesterday the democrats were
in conference at their headquarters
here, congratulating each other upon
the big Wilson "swing" and planning
to keep it going. Senator Walsh and
Senator Saulsbury were ;n high feather
and both declared that the "swing"
could not be stopped. Senator Saulsbury
thinks the campaign is all over.
that it is too late to stop the Wilson
drift and he is going east.
The republicans realize the trend to
President Wilson, and a*re not deluding
themselves as to the seriousness of it.
Their view is that the crest of the
Wilson movement has been reached, i
however, and that during the ensuing i
two weeks things will come their way. j
Illinois is .to be fought for by the !
two parties, to the nail. The democrats
insist that they have even chance j
ii this state, where a feu weeks ago
the republicans were claiming it by |
:.no,ijo(t. then 200.000. next 100,000 and
now are talkinr; down to 50,000.
The democrats are basing their hopes
on Illinois flr^t upon the independent!
ote and next upon the woman's vote.
The state has a record for "changing
mind" i?-?liticn 11 v
Courting 0:1 the Women.
i;i 1 S9'J Cleveland carried Illinois by
'.<*00, and in McKlnley swept ft '
:.y Z42.605. lit 19?0 -McKlnley''s plural -1
j > dropped to 92,000, while in 100-1 I
ilooeevelt rolled up more than 300,000;.
in 190s Taft carried it by 179,000, and i
i:: 1912 President Wilson's plurality'
va? 1*,570.
It Is evident that President Wilson
will have to Ret 00 per cent of the
women's vote to overcome, the normal
republican male strength. The demo ratic
managers say that all their reports
show that the suggestion that
vilson kept us out of war is winning
the women by the thousands. The republicans
are concerned, but by no
means dismayed, over the perceptible
drift at the time to President .Wilson.
To repeat, they believe the- crest lias
seen reached md that herd work from
cow on will turn the tide th*- otin .
cay. They do not concede Ken: tor
Yageart's claim i i Indiana, all theninformation
which is of c practical
nature indicating that the state will
be republican.
Ohio continues to worry them and so
does Wisconsin, but tiny are going
into those states for the remainder of
the campaign, with renewed vigor and
will put in their best licks in the re^
-naining days. j
Work in Northwestern States.
[ Afore work is to be done in the
' northwestern states, too. by the republicans.
The 'Star's correspondence two
weeks ago told of the slipping of the
republican campaign in North Dakota,
due to the Scandinavian vote accepting
the claim the President kept the
nation out of war. The republicans arcspeeding
heir campaign in North I>a-ota
and Minnesota, and feel confident
of being able to hold the states.
Michigan is classed as safely republican,
notu ithstaridiug the strong labor
\ote in the automobile section, which
is conceded to the democrats.
What the republicans fear most is,
the "be kept us out of the war" suggestion,
their report from many sections
shewing that it is having its
effect. Tney ur** corn rutting it in
, v? ry way possible. but it is reported
by the men who write ant! come to
t'hlcugo as being a hogged conviction
.ijiio.ng thousands of vot?-rs- lhat argument
seems uT.abie to affect.
The republicans are depending upon
the silent vote as their main bulwark
.#i" strength. The;, believe that throughout
this western country there is a
Kreat thoughtful and conservati ve
elemerit. which docs not lend itself to
political argument, nor allow itself to
be swayed by passion, and that this
element will dissect the Adamson bill.
v the war immunity claim, the tariff
question, the prosperity and contentment
issue, and when election day
comes around vote the straight ticket
for the republican party.
Hearst Papers Support Mann.
"The votes are here." according to
the republican argument. "ho why
vhouldn't we get them?" To which the
democrats' manager, J. K. liingley, responds:
"They were here once, but
President Wilson <,arr?** along and grabbed
them.*'
Represent;*! i ve Mann, the minority
leader of the House, was today indorsed
by the local Hearst newspapers for reelection,
in the same editorial in whicli
Mr. Hearst for the first time came ou1
for /President Wilson.
Mr. Hearst's editorial, while expressing
dissent from President Wilson's foreign
policy, advocated his domestic policies,
especially the legislative record. Then
be l/oosts Mr. Mann and Mr. Medill McCornilck.
who is running for representative
at large.
Speaking of Mr. >fann. he celebrated his
sixtieth birthday last week and pulled
m a nine stunt 01 ma own. He has
twenty acres of land to the southward of
town. in which he has planted a
nursery. In the recess of Congress he
loves to put on overalls and dig around
his garden. It in not a jsise with him,
but the real thing. It its said that there,
while pottering about hi* place, he
h%tche? tip all kinds of trouble for the
democrats. On bin birthday he invited
hia neighbors from far and wide to cotnc
jn and get shrubs and plants from hit
nursery. They responded In numbers,
and all day long Mr. Mann passed out
the plants, many of which were of Intrinsic
value. '
STEAMER MEM !
WRECKED BY GALE
i !
i Not a Man of the Vessel's Crew j
Is Believed to Have Sur- j
vived Disaster.
iSTORM'STOLLON LAKE ERIE |
; It.v the Associated
| CLEVELAND, Ohio, October ?Lo- j
j eal managers of the steamer Merida. j
j owned by the Valley Camp Shipping:
| Company of Midland, ^Ontario, conceded I
I today that the ship was lost in Friday
j night's gale on Lake Erie. The ad- J
I mission came after seven bodies of the
j crew had been picked tip in midlake
j by two other ships. So far as known,
| not a man of the crew of twentyI
three survived the tragedy,
j The loss of the Merida makes four
I lake steamers which went to the bot
I torn or Lake Erie m Friday s storm,
j The total loss of life is fifty. The
i Marshal F. Butters sank with 110 loss
1 of life, all thirteen of her crew being
| saved. The D. F. Filer went dov n
with six of her crew, only the captain
! surviving. The James B. Colgate's
{ crew of twenty-two. with the single
I exception of the captain, perished,
j while every man on the Merida is be1
lieved lost.
Seven Bodies Picked Up.
Three bodies from the Merida were
| picked up by the steamer W. B.
j Mathews in midlake yesterday and
j taken to Toledo today. Four bodies :
; were found, bearing Merida life belts.
by the steamer Charlotte Breitung and
' landed at Detroit. Reports from anj
other ship sent out from a ''an.idian
port to hunt for the Merida today
' were that wreckage had been sighted,
i but no survivors and no other bodies
[ were found.
! The Merida was due at Buffalo Saturj
day with a cargo of pyrites ore. She
i was commanded by t'apt. H. L. Jones
I of Buffalo. The ship was of 5.100 tons
capacity and 360 feet long. She Was
! built in 1693.
Four Taken to Windsor.
DETROIT, Mich., October 23.?The
steamer Charlotte O. Breitung arrived
today at Sandwich. Ontario, with four
bodies of sailors of the steamer Merida.
These bodies were picked up in Rake ,
Erie yesterday, and the crew of the
Breitung felt certain that the Merida '
foundered in the storm last Friday
night. Wreckage, including life belts
with the word "Merida" on them, was j :
seen in Rake Eric, off the Detroit river. I
The bodies were brought from Sand- j
| wich to Windsor, Ontario, for identifi- j
| cation.
When Steamer Was Last Sighted, j
BFFFARO, October 23.?The steamer j
MeTida cleared from Buffalo, but sol'
far as known here her captain, H. L. | ,
Jones, was the only member of the .
S crew from this port.
I Capt. Massey of the steamer Briton,
r the last vessel known to have sighted
j the Merida, reports as follows:
The Merida was rolling so badly and 1
taking over such big seas that I feared ]
she would founder. She was twenty-}
i five miles east of the southeast shoal i
j when I saw her Friday and the gal#* i
; was getting worse. I made Cedar point
and rernair.ded there until Saturday]
J night. If the Merida had gone behind!
Jx>ng point she should have made Buf- I
i falo this morning. J saw nothing of }
! her on the way down, al?hough 1 kept !
i a sharp lookout."
"J
List of Men Believed Lobt.
' The cn-w of the Merida, ail of whom
[.are believed to be lost, follows:
I H. L. Jones, Buffalo; Gideon Fleming,
| Ogdensburg, X. V.; John Anderson,
' Buffalo; Roderick Mac-Donald, Goderich,
Ontario; Angus Graham, Goderich, Or.;
tario; Angus Murray. Goderich, Ontario;
Joseph fi. Pollard, St. Louis:
William Dundas, Ruth, Mich.; Thomas
H. Moore, Chicago; Anton Kurshis,
Cleveland: Joseph Gallagher. Cleveland;
Joseph O'Connor, Chicago; Walter
} Johnson, Rock, Mich.; Wilfred Austen,
i Detroit; John Quigley, Detroit; Wil;
liam Bogie. Sault Ste. Marie. Mich.; I)ai
vid Corbett. Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.;
John Callahan. Bad Axe. Mich.; Martin
it. Brogan. Cleveland; Anton Zimmerman,
Brooklyn, N. Y.; Leo Wagner,
! Sioux City. Iowa: Steward Mclsaao, De|
pere. Wis., and Gordon Hayne, Cievc- :
| land.
CHABGES HE WAS MUTILATED. !
i Accusation Made by German Sailor
Against Canadian Soldiers.
j TOLK1X), Ohio, October 2.*J.?Hans'
! Schmidt, a German sailor, is in a local
i hospital with one of his lingers cut
j off and otherwise mutilated, he says.
' by Canadian soldiers at Port Arthur,
i Ontario.
! Schmidt told his story to polite last
; night after having been found wander- !
' 'trig in the streets. He said he was ad- j
i vised in Hoboken, N. J., to ship on the
' great lakes- He went to Buffalo,
where he was offered employment as
a seaman on the steamer Chellsta,
which carried the British flag. He un- j
derstood the destination of the vessel I
to be Duluth.
At Port Arthur, he declared. he at- |
tempted to pass a guard of soldiers on j
shore and was struck down by one j
with the number "122" on the collar ;
of his uniform. Trying to regain his 1
l*et. the soldier's bayonet was flashed I
and one of the sailor's lingers was ,
vered, he ? laims. Then, de declares,
ne was beaten unconscious and did not j
knew where be was until he awoke in j
Detroit several days later.
MISSION WORKERS TO MEET.
Annual Convention of American
Board Begins Tomorrow in Toledo.
TOL.ElH>. Ohio. October 23.?Delegates
began arriving this morning for the
107th annual meeting of the American
board of commissioners for foreign
missions, which will begin here Tuesday
and continue four days.
Missionaries from all parts of the j
j world, some or them tfrtveri out of the
, | Kuropean countries by the war, are
: J annum the delegates. They are com- 1
ing from '"hina, Armenia. Turkey.
| I South Africa, Peru, northern Africa
: ! and other remote regions. Officers will
be elected Thursday.
I One of the more important questions
! lo ome before the meeting will be the
i proposal of the American mission board
, to enter South America. This question
will be brought up by President King
of Oberlin College, who Was a member
til* Panama conference. 1
J
-1iriliiif'--fin ^--r r --
DEMAND WAR HEAD1
RESIGN FROM OFFICE
!
Officers of Patriotic Societies
Denounce Secretary Baker j
for Alleged Utterances.
ACTION STIRS MEMBERS
A set of resolutions has been signed i
by officers of patriotic societies demanding
the immediate resignation of ,
Newton D. Baker, Secretary of War,
and calling upon President Wilson to ;
repudiate alleged utterances of his War |
Secretary, in which Secretary Baker
compared the soldiers of the revolution
to Villa's followers. Washington wornen,
members of the societies, are all!
stirred up over the action taken. '
Some are protesting that the resolu- ;
tions were signed by individual officers ;
without authority to represent the society
in such matters. Others are pre- i
paring to ratify this action of officers j
rn special meetings within a day or j
two. .
These resolutions set forth thai See- 1
retary Baker, in a speech at Jersey ,
City. October 16, characterized the patriots
who followed Washington from ;
Bunker Hill to Yorktow n as "thieves, .
church looters *and disreputable characters
generally." Secretary Baker has
sine* said that his remarks should not
be given such an interpretation. The
women responsible for the adoption of
the resolutions of protest state positively
that they can prove that Mr.
Baker did say this and that they are
sending out with copies of the resolution
an extract that they say is from
stenographic notes of Secretary Baker's j
speech. These are being mailed today
to every patriotic organization in the !
United States.
The resolutions affirm that in speak- :
ing as quoted above Secretary Baker J
was guilty of "libelous and false state- i
ments" and ignorance of American his- J
tory in likening Washington's soldiers
at Valley Forge to Villa bandits.
Denies Action Is Official.
"Mrs. Frank F. Greenawalt, as vice
chairman of the publicity committee for
the National Society, D. A. R., denied
today that the action of members of the
Daughters of the American Revolution
was official and done with proper authority.
As the Washington represerita- ~
tlve of the only committee authorize^ to j v
give out any information of the policy < n
or actions of the National Society, :
D. A. R.. she said that Mrs. William j s
Cumming Story, president general of the j H
national society, has authorized her to
make the statement that she (Mrs. ^
Story) has been frequently requested "to ^
grant an interview on this subject,
and that she has persistently refused. ^
She said slie had not sanctioned any ^
such action.
ti? ernlninlner the nosition of the Xa- ' *
tlonal Society, D." A. R.( the vice chair- c
man of the publicity committee said that b
nothing can be done officially except
through the national TStS&Tft of managers. $
This board is composed of the president I ^
general of the society, the vice presi- d
dents general from the various states
and the state regents. This is the of- : ^
flcial board which manages all the af- [ d
fairs of the national society when its j
congress is not in session. No meeting | *s
of the national board or of the executive i 1
committee, she said, has been held tince
October and none has been called be- 8
fore the date of the next regular meet- d
ing, the third Wednesday in November, i d
The chairman of the publicity commit- | ^
tee is Miss Fanny ifarnit of Toledo, t;
Ohio. <
Another signer is the Legion of Loyal :
Women, with the names of the presi- ^
dent and vice president appearing. ! v
Some leaders in this organization said ;
today that the legion had not taken j m
official action. A meeting of. the legion j I
is to be held in the Raleigh Hotel to-|
night, when members-said they expect!
that the action of Mrs. Ada H. Weiss, j
the president, in signing the resolutions
will be indorsed.
The indorsement of the District Fed- J 1
oration of Women's Flubs is also ex- j
pected to be given officially tomorrow j
night at a flag presentation ceremony |
in the New Ebbitt House. A silk flag
is to be presented to the Federation by
Lincoln Circle, No. 3. Ladies of the
<J. A. R. Following the presentation
the committee on patriotism of the
federation is expected to ask for the ]
indorsement. Mrs. Alhertine S. Odell, ;j
chairman of this committee, has called
a special meeting of the committee (
previous to federation meeting, when 1
she will recommend that the commit- ;J
tee urge the federation to indorse the I
resolutions censuring Secretary Baker.
Part of Speech Criticised. ?.
The part of Secretary Baker's speech 1
- - ' : < . I
WHICH was oujwub1 uj 13 <xn iuii.jws;
"Some people say tbey cannot understand
the President's Mexican policy,
and I want to tell you why. They have
forgotten our own history and the
Declaration of independence, and the
President lias not forgotten either.
Why are we impatient at the Mexicans?
We say tney do not respect the lives
and property of our people. Perhaps
they don't. W?* say they do not pay
their honest debts They don't. We say !
they are a ragamuffin lot. We say- their !
money is riot any good. That's true. !
it is oni> worth 2 or 3 cents on the !
dollar. We say they do not respect i
church property. That also is true. (
"The amazing thing is that people
never respect these things in a revolution.
We hail a revolution and from
the beginning to the end of that the
conditions in this country were so like
Mexico that it is perfectly astounding
to read.
"Washington's soldiers in the march
to Valley Forge stole everything they
could lay their hands on. They stole
the silver vessels from the churches j
and melted them up to buy drink. They
drove ministers of the gospel and
preachers of churches out. of their
churches and out of the country. The
money of the so-called confederation j]
was so Worthless that when they tried I
to make the merchants take it, the latter
hid their provisions in their eel- J
lars." - j
c Signers to Resolutions. j }
The' resolutions are 'signed as fol- : '
I 1
lows: !
National Society of the Daughters of ! 1
| the American Revolution?Miss Mary J J
J s. I?ckwood, founder and chaplain 1
| general; Miss Grace M. Pierce, registrar
general; Miss Catherine B. Barlow,, .
' curator general; Mrs. George T. Small- j
i wood ex-state regent and ex-vice j .
I president general; Mrs. G. M. Brum- : '
1 baugh, state regent and ex-registrav,! .
j general; Mrs. Charles W. Brown, chapj
ter regent; Mrs. Francis St. Clair, chap- J }
! ter regent; Mrs. Noble N. Potts, chap- i |
; ter regent^ Miss Celynda Ford, chap- j
! ter regent, and Mrs. Celynda Werner j
Ford, chapter treasurer.
| National Society of the Children of !
the American Revolution?Miss Grace ;
M, Pierce, vice president; Miss Catherine
Custis, recording secretary; Mrs.
G. M. Brumbaugh, corresponding secretary;
Mrs. Catherine Custis, registrar;
Mrs. Charles W. Brown, chaplain, and,
Miss Helen Stout, District of Columbia
state director.
Daughters of the Founders and Patriots?Mr*
Francis St. Clair, state
president; Mrs. G. M. Brumbaugh, state
Jt
?
I
f 1
<>?2S>'
?
_ %__
ice
president; Mrs. Charles W. "Brown,
atioriai corresponding secretary.
IJ? S. U. of 181!!?'Mrs. Noble M. Potts, |
tate recording secretary; Mrs. G. M. j
irunibaugh. state registrar. j
Legion of Loyal Women?Mrs. Ada]
I. Weiss, president; Miss Grace M.j
'ierce. vice president.
Woman's Relief Corps?Mrs. Isabel j
PoVrell Ball, national senior vice presient.
Ladies' I'non Veteran Legion?Mrs.!
elynda Werner Ford. past national j
ounselor; Miss Celynda Ford, past!
resident.
frames of the Loyal Legion?Mrs.!
ohn A. Logan. Honorary president;'
Irs. Mary Logan Tucker, acting presient.
Society of the Army of Tennessee?
Irs. Mary Logan Tucker, vice pre stent.
National Lineal Society of the Span- ,
sh War?Mrs. Ally 11 K. Capron, nalonal
president.
Clara Barton National Memorial A?-?J
ociation?Mrs. John A. Logan, present;
Mrs. Ada H. Weiss, vice presi- ;
ent; Mrs. Mary S. Lock wood, director;
iiss Grace M. Pierce, recording secreary,
and Mrs. Mary Logan Tucker,
orresponding secretary.
Society of the Ladies of the G. A. R.?
frs. Jam^K H. Hendryx, past national
ice president.
TEUTONS LAUNCH A NEW
OFFENSIVE IN THE EAST
Attack North of Brody. According to
an Official Announcement
in Petrograd.
PKTKOOKAIh October 23, via London.
2:21 p.m.?Austro-German forces mad^
i new attack yesterday, striking- north
>f Brody, near, the Volhynian-Galician
>order. The war office reports that the
issault was repulsed.
The powerful Austro-German offensive
launched a week ago in the region
south of Dorna-Watra with the intension
of driving a wedge ??etween the
Russian and Rumanian forces, preventng
further Russian assistance to her'
illy and regaining Bukowina, has apparently
broken down before the couri;er
maneuvers of the Russians. The
Russian command, anticipating the
Jermau move, threw a largre body 01
Lroops to this portion of the front,
causing, according to official accounts,
:b<! Austro-Germans to fall back to
heir original positions.
Hi: It I .IN. October 23. by wireless to
>ayville.?A general attack was made
Saturday by ihc Austro-German forces
n Galicia, southeast of Romberg. Thf
war office announces that the Russians
nave been defeated and now hold only
1 small stretch of territory on tHe
vest bank of the Narayuvha river. The
Austrians and Germans inflicted heavy
losses on the Russians and took 755
prisoners.
The total repulse of the Russian
orces from the western bank of the
iiver Mara>uvka, in Galicia, has been
completed, says the official statement
ssued at German army headquarters
odfcy.
GUILTY OF HIGH TREASON.
Former Foreign Minister of Bulgaria
Sentenced to Imprisonment.
AMSTERDAM. October 22. via J.onion,
October 23.?A telegram from
iofia announces that Dr. N. Ghenadietf,
'ormer Bulgarian foreign minister, has
jeen tried for high treason and sentenced
to penal servitude for ten years.
Dr. Ghenadietf in seriously ill of blood
poisoning.
A Sofia dispatch last April reported
he arrest of Dr. Ghenadieff on the
:harge of connection with an intrigue
igainst the Bulgarian government. It
was reported he had accepted a bribe
from a French agent. A later dispatch
3aid the pressure of public opinion
tiau iuiucu uif k<>\ernmeni iu i
ii n. _
TWINE
The school children need
heavy twine and cord to tie
up the large bundles of
newspapers collected for the
playground fund. Save any
you have for them,
\>
ii? :
v5^>>
FAVORS WEEK-END
REST FOR CLERKS
Assistant Secretary of War Indorses
Move for Saturday
Half Holiday.
| MR. LANE TO REPORT SOON
\
! The movement for an all-year Satur[
day half-holirlay for government worki
?-rs received added impetus today.
; William M. lngrahsm, assistant, sec;
retary M' war, and who. in the 'absence
charge oi the military establishment,
;i strongly ii> favor of the proposition
' for a Saturday half-holiday all the year
: round for employes of th<- federal govleinnn
rit. Speaking: on the subjeet to|
day, he said that as Secretary Maker,
| who now is in Joliet. 111., is expected to
| return fo this city Wednesday, he did
i not f**el disposed to act in the matter
in spite of the fact that most of the
bureau chiefs of'the department havereported
in favor of the proposition*
"Mut. speaking personally." added
Air. Ingraharn. "1 am strongly in favor
of the Saturday half holiday for the
employes of the War department, who
are a faithful and hardworking lot. and
if the Secretary asks for my opinion
! on the proposition. 1 shall recommend
i its adoption."
J Secretary Maker is one of the four
; cabinet officers who have not yet sent
their recommendations to the President.
The others arc Secretaries Daniels
and Mane and Postmaster General
I Burleson.
Appeals Direct to President.
i The Retail Merchants' Association
: has sent u^Helegraphic appeal to President
Wilson at Shadow Lawn, asking
him to grant the Saturday half holiday
I for' the government clerks. In the tele'
gram to the President, which is signed
by It. P. Andrews, president, and
J Charles J. Columbus, secretary, it is
j stated:
I "The Retail Merchants* Association
j respectfully renews its appeal of a
i year ago for the Saturday half holiday
' tor government clerks. Jt? in trod uc"j
ticn at this time would he a wonderful
help for the early Christmas shopping
J movement and for business generally
!,.V. , i II I l- tl?.? / nm.lr ... '
. ?n.v..4 v w..w J WUUK1 iip!
preciate."
} T'rior to the Christmas holidays last
j year the association took up the subj
ject of a Saturday half holiday for the
rlerks with the President, but-owing:!
} to an opinion on file in the Department
j of Justice, the President did not see his
j way clear at that time to grant the
I holiday.
1 Report by Secretary Lane Soon.
With the last of the reports of the
j various bureau heads hied at the office j
! of Secretary Pana of the Interior De- '
j partment today, announcement was !
I "made that before the end of the week
the Secretary's report on the subject
would be laid before President Wilson.
No definite statement would be made as
to the nature of the recommendations of
the various bureau heads, it was said,
i but it was ascertained that, while these
! reports had not been unanimously in
iavor of the proposition, a majority of
I them recommended the adoption of the
! week-end rest.
j That the head ot one of the principal |
I bureaus was averse to the proposed!
chang;'- was learned from excellent au- j
thority. His letter to Secretary Pane
opposes the concession of the haif-holi!
day on the grounds that a vast amount
of unfinished work had been inherited
! bv him from his predecessor* in office;
' that he has made considerable' headI
way toward clearing up this undesirable
surplusage, but that until it
should be entirely disposed of he could
not see his way clear to advocate the
IJ1 W|7UiSCU
There is reason for believing-, say
those who are in a position to know,
that Secretary Lane has already arrived
at a decision as to what his recom-*
1
.... . .. . ..... -V -, <;*?. '
sum KILLING
HELD ACT OF CRANK
i :
Vienna^)oesrvt Believe Slaying
of Premier Can Influence
Political Situation.
FRIENDS CONDEMN HIS ACT
I
i ,
; By th^ Associated Pre>s?.
| VIEXXA, October 22. via London. Oe- \
j tober 23.?Governmerft circles here re- r
? gard the killing of Premier JStuergkh
; as an act of a political crank which j
J can in no wise . influence the political ;
! situation or the course of the war.
; This statement was made to the corre
i spondent of the Associated Press in |
j high responsible quarters.
Tt is pointed out that the time which j
! has elapsed since the murder has shown
| that Adler, the assassin, stands alone. )
j His act is disavowed by the socialist j
j party and press and condemned by his !
j father. Victor Adler, socialist member'
of the lower chamber of the reiclis- j
rath. Adler stated to the police that he '
shot Stuergkh because the premier op- j
posed the convening of parliament. It
i is stated officially that Steurgkh had at
| no time done this, and that he could
j not do it. because the convening of
L n#1Q->
V fite^'*fl * V?*ir "'A
^kfp'#:'
*?Vt^ X?o &\
'^>^- / o^>6 A
+K X4 \H
\ X/ /
^ *
mendation to the President will be. At
; the department and in the various bu.
reaus confidence is freely expressed
that this decision is favorable to the
change.
ELEVATED TRAINS STONED.
! Two Passengers Are Injured by
Strikers in New York.
j XEW YOKK. October 23.?Strike ac
tivity in the city's transit situation was
, resumed today when several 3d avenue
i elevated trains were bombarded with
' stones thrown from roof tops in the
Harlem district. Two passengers
. were injured. Policemen were with:
drawn from most of the trains and
! surface cars some days ago, when
[ strikers and sympathizers generally
. abandoned their campaign of violence.
i HARD FIGHTING IN CERNA
IS FAVORABLE TO ALLIES
Counter Attack by Bulgars Repulsed
by Serbians. According to
Paris Report.
PA It IS, October 23.?Desperate tighti
ing in the bend of the Cerna. on the.
i Macedonian front, has resulted favorj
ably to the entente forces, according
j to today's war office announcement.
The Bulgarians counter attacked in
j strong force, but were defeated by the
j Serbians, who inflicted heavy losses on
I the attacking troops.
| SALON IK I, October 23. via London.?
1 Serbian army headquarters gave out
I the following communication today:.
'Octobdr 21 there was nothing of im!
portance on the Serbian front. We have
' identified fresh German units which
j have appeared in the Cerna sector."
,
DESTROYER HIT BY BOMB
FROM GERMAN AEROPLANE
| 1SJ2RL1X, October 23, by wireless to
i ?sayvnur.?a uruisn aesiroyer off the
| Flanders coast was struck by a bomb
1 from a German aeroplane Saturday, the
I admiralty announced today. The state- j
merit follows:
"A German seaplane squadron on
{he afieri.oon of October I'l successfully
attacked with bombs British sea
forces off the Flanders coast. One hit
oif a crest rover was observed. Notwithstanding
heavy shelling, all the
raiders returned unharmed."
| SINGER'S DEATH A MYSTERY.
Chicago Police Hunt Strangler of
Japanese Cabaret Singer.
OHK'AGO, October 23.?Mysterious]
circumstances surrounding the death of
Wanda Tango, a Japanese girl who
came to , Chicago from Hawaii, where1
she was |d.ucated, were being invest!- j
gated by the police today. The girl. '
I whose body was taken from the river]
I yesterday, had been murdered by stranj
gulation. according to the police theory. I
I ...wi ^ beinir m ;i <1 k t>> .. I
chaufreur who was last seen with her.;
I Wanda Tango had been a singer in!
j North Side cabarets. She disappeared 1
about seven weeks ago, after having1
told friends she was going to New |
York.
Sir Joseph Beecham Dies.
LONDON. October 23.?Sir Josej.h i
Beecham. manufacturer of patent medicines.
is dead. He was found lifeless
in bed at Ids home at Hampstead.
Sir Joseph Beecham. well known as
a medicine manufacturer and philanthropist.
tvas born June S. 1S48. He
was the son of the late Thomas
Beec.nain of Southport, Lancashire, who
founded (treat pill manufactories in
Jflurope and the United States. Sir
Joseph was created a knight In 1911,
and was elevated to the baronetage in
1914 He was also a Knight of Russian
Order of St. Stanislaus. He was
tho proprietor ot the Aldwych Theater,
in London, and was three times mayor I
of St. Helens. 1
i
: pari lament was a matter in ine minus i
| of political parties.
? The Austro-Hungariari press brands
! Adler as a vile irresponsible criminal j
| and without exception deplores the
; fact that the art of a crazy man should
disturb the peace of the people. The
i.eity is quiet. The public, while natural.
iy greately interested, regards the
1 murder as a purely private crime.
(
Assassin Awaits Trial.
I>r. Adler is being- held by the police i
; awaiting- trial. He maintains complete
composure. The population of Vienna 1
j is recovering from the shock of the as-i
sassination. Throughout the empTt*ej
; Dr. Adler's act is deplored and looked j
' upon as the deed of a fanatic.
He is known as a very morose man. !
| He has been troubled for a long- time
with heart disease and has been in poor ]
health for many years, so that, al- j
though he is only thirty-seven years!
j old, he gives the Thipres?ion of being an
iaged man. He has two-children. His
1 wife is an invalid.
j After studying chemistry and work!
ing for several years as a chemist. Ad
]er went to Switzerland. lie returned
to Austria shortly before the war. imbued
with extreme Marxian theories,
v:... ^ : 3"
' ' '^
S j
; P ^ r^r^l j
! COUNT KARL STUEHKKH.
which he advanced in a periodical tailed
Das Yolk.
This paper ceased, publication at the
outbreak of the war. Subsequently Dr.
Adler founded Der Kampf, in which he j
i treated social problems in an able,
| scientific manner.
Assassination Purely Political. |
| The assassination was political, since!
! Dr. Adler was entirely unknown to!
] the premier. He recently desired the!
socialists to take certain action against
j the premier, but his proposal was I
j viewed unfavorably by the party. He
I then cut loose from the socialists. He
j continued publication of I>er Kampf
i and shunned all society. Being: - ii?1
dependent l\ wealthy he was able to
follow sueh a course.
fount Stuergkii was little known to
the American public until he became
premier. He was of <juiet and retiring
disposition. His tenure of office
brotight him no great chances, though
some were expected when he became
head of the government.
Thus far i; is unknown who will succeed
Count Stuergkh. but the impression
is that neither the attitude of the
government nor the course of the war
will be influenced by I ?r. Adler's act."
Called Act of Fanatic.
j BERLIN'. October 22. via London. October
23.?All accounts in the morning
papers agree in calling the assassination
of Premier Stuergkii of Austria
the deed of an irresponsible political
fanatic, if not a neurasthenic, whose
| mind lias given way under the strain
j-of the war.
1 Dr. Friedrich Adit r, the assassin, is
i described by acquaintances as a man i
[ of a naturally fanatical temperament
and one in whose family insanity
runs?a sister and a brother are in
an insane asylum. These acquaintances
say that Adler has given the impression
for months of one whose nerves
were stretched to the breaking point
and that his wild deineanvr had caused
much agitation in the Austrian socialist
central committee of which he
was secretary. Young: Adler led u]
small but vehement opposition to the!
policy of the party under his lather's
leadership.
The Yorwaerts. which expresses the
strongest disapproval of Dr. Adler's
deed, declares that he was undoubtedly
demented when he committed the
murder, as nobody in his senses could
have * expected favorable results fro/n
such aa act.
Prohibited Political Meetings.
Premier Stuergkh's last political act
was to prohibit two big meetftigs called
tor today as demonstrations in favor
of the convocation of parliament. He
also designed on the part of the gov- :
ernment to participate in a conference ;
of parliamentary officials tomorrow to
discuss the possibility of the resump- <
tion of sittings of the representatives. ,
It is not thought that the premier's ]
death will have any effect for or .
against Convocation, as he only acted .
as representat.ive of the system in opposition
thereto. There is no dispo- ,
(Continued on Second Page. 7 1
V.. ? ?? X. f-' . ' \
CONSTANZA FORTS
TAKEN BYTEUTONS,
IS BERLIN REPORT
Gives Invaders Possession of
Black Sea Terminus of
Dobrudja Railway.
PRESSING DEFENDERS BACK
By ih?? A^-MKint^d Pr??!>w.
BERLIN", October _>_p via London.
5 :45 p.m.?The Rumanian
fortres.-. of Constanza lias been
captured by the Germans, the \vaoffice
announced today.
Troops of the central powers
have crossed the railway line running
between the Black sea port
of Constanza and the River Dan
ube at a point to the east of Mur
fatlar, the official announcement
says. The fortress of Constanza
was taken bv German and Bulgarian
troops.
Approaching- Tchemavoda.
On the left wins of Field Marshal
von Mackensen*a army, the statement
adds, the Germans and their aHies are
approaching- the Danube town of
Tohernavoda.
Constanza was one of the principal
objectives of Field Marshal von
Mackensen in his campaign in
Dobrudja. It is of particular importance
by reason of the fact that it is
the eastern terminus of the only railroad
between the Black sea and the
Danube, which it crosses at Tchemavoda.
Thence the railroad runs west- .
ward into old Rumania.
Claims Resistance Is Broken.
LONDON". October 23.?The Teutonic
drive at Rumania from the south has
pushed the Russo-Rumanian armies
apparently to almost their last possible
line of resistance south of the Constanza-Tcheriiavoka
railway, leading
into interior Rumania over the Tchernavoda
bridge across the Danube.
Sofia reports the, combined Bulgarian,
Turkish and Austro-Gcrman forces un
der Field Marshal von Mackensen
within approximately six miles of Constanza.
the Black sea terminus of the
railway, where the village of Tekrghiol
has been captured. The entente resistance
in Robrudja is declared to have
been definitely broken.
Petrograd Admits Retreat.
Eight guns and twenty machine puns
were taken by von Macketisen's forces.'
Petrograd admits the continuation of
the Husso-Rumanian retreat in L>ot>rudja,
declaring, however, that th?
Russian and Rumanians are ottering,
stubborn resistance as they fall back
On the north, where Teutonic pressure
is also being: applied in the attempt
to crush Rumania between the
two jaws of the Teutonic military machine.
the success of the operation
seems'less pronounced. The Rumanians,
with Russian help, apparently arernaking
successful stands in the various
pas serf leading from Transylvanian to
Rumanian territory. In some of tlic^?
hilly regions, notably in the Trotus
Oituz and s-lunic valleys. Rumania:,
forces art reported by Petrograd t*>
have driven Gen. von Falkenhayn's
troops' slightly backward.
Sofia Reports Big Victory.
SOFIA, October 22, via London, October
2o.?The Rumanians have been
driven back to within six miles of Constanza,
on the Dobrudja front, according
to an official statement issued" 1>y
the war office. Eight guns, twenty
machine guns and much war material
have fallen into the hands of the Bulgarians.
The text of the statement follows:
"Rumanian front?Near Kiodvo and
Silistria there was a bombardment on
both sides of the river. In the Dobrudja
we definitely broke the enemy's resistance.
Our right wing occupied the
village of Tekrghiol and arrived within
about six miles south of Coitstanza.
Eight guns, twenty machine gur.s and
much war material were captured, in
additiori to 200 more prisoners."
Offer Stubborn Resistance.
PETROGRAD, October 23, via Eondon,
1:10 p.m.^?The Russian and Rumanian
troops in Dobrudja are continuing
to retreat, the war office announced
today. They are offering stubborn
resistance to Field Marshal von
MacWensen's army.
On the Transylvanian front the Rumanians
made attacks yesterday compelling
the Austro-Gernian forces to
retire slightly in the Trotus, Oituz i,nd
Slanic valleys. On the western frontier
of Moldavia the Rumanians are lighting
stubbornly and with success.
Campaign Began October 19.
Von Mackensen's new campaign lit
Dobrudja was begun only last week,
on October 1 y, when an offensive along
the entire line from the Black sea to
the Danube was opened. The earlier
effort of the field marshal was started
soon after Rumania's entrance Into
the war. It was notably successful
in its stveep down the Danube, resulting
in the capture of the fotress of
Turtukai September S and of Silistria
a few days later, but came to a.
halt September 21, when the Ru
manians announced a defeat of thd
forces? of the central powers well to" 9
the. south of the Constanza-TchernavO
da line. .
The opposing armies stood deadlock
ed here for several weeks, while the I
Teutonic offensive under Gen. von Fal
kenhayn in Transylvania was opened
and the Rumanians were driven back
to their northern frontier passes.
Pressure From South Renewed. I
The pressure from the south was I
then renewed, and apparently without I
a check of any account von Macken
sen's armies have forced their way '
northward toward the railroad line, I
finally reaching: it on its easterly end
at Constanza.
Oonstanza lias been notably useful in
affering a seaport and railway entrance JH
for Russian troops and ammunition
sent to the aid of Rumania. Its capture *
cuts off. the most convenient water -jfl
route for Rumanian replenishment. ?specfally
in munitions, of which the Ru- IH
manians have been reported badly in <H
need. Possession of the entire line J fl
would give the Teutonic allies the
1 toilsaSBhtos
