r ,v"W'
f " " " .j v
'J
I
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair tonight and tomorrow.
(Full Report on Page Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NUMBER 90'62.
WASHINGTON, MONDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 23, 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT.
"X T
rl
;t
IT
FQRFSFESG.O.PiVACKENSEN 'S
MAJ0RITY0F10
IN THE HOUSE
Chairman Woods, of Congress
ional Campaign Committee,
Confident of Success.
MUST CHANGE 12 DISTRICTS
Republican Gain in Sixteen
States Now Seems Sure,
Reports Say.
NEW YORK, Oct. 23. That the next
House 1b to be Republican by a small
but comfortable working majority was
the report made to National Chairman
William R. Wilcox by Congressman
Prank P. Woods, of Iowa, head of the
Republican Congressional campaign
committee.
The committees ha been ' conducting
Its own campaign 'for the election of a
Republican House, with offices In this
city, Washington and Chicago. I Con
gressman Woods, who puts In most of
his tlmo In Washington, conferred with
Mr. Wlllcox and with Senator John W.
Weeks of the Senatorial committee, with
which the Congressional committee la
co-operating.
The fight for the next House of Repre
sentatives has bcon exceedingly bitter
in the lost few weeks, and It was ad
mitted by Republicans that the number
of doubtful districts had Increased rath
er than diminished In this time. It Is
the labor centers which aro causing
trouble.
Adamson Eight-Hour Law Argument
Reports received by the, commltteo
show that Samuel Oompers and the
American Federation of Labor are at
work with speakers and literature In
cvory one of these districts trying to
elect Democratic Congressmen, using
the Adamson law as their chief argu
ment.
The political activities of the federn
tlon. according to those in close touch
with this situation, exceed anything
vever seen, and the labor leaders are
making a terrlflo drlvo In many dis
tricts, which ordinarily would be con
sidered safely Republican. The result
of this has been to make prognostica
tions regarding the Congressional elec
tion difficult
The Democratic majority in tho pres
ent House IS Twenty-three. To insure
a Republican House tho Republicans
must carry at least twelve of the
Democratlo districts and hold their
present strength. While Congressman
Woods and his associates are not ready
ns yet to give out any figured, they
havo told Chairman Wlllcox and other
Republicans here that they expect to
win tho House by at least ten seats.
Estimate Ib Conservative.
This Is a most conservative estimate,
however, and is based on conditions as
they aro at tho present time. It Is the
general belief that conditions will Im
prove in tho next two weeks, and some
(Continued on Second Page.)
Asked One Flower
Of Each Mourner
Will of Wiliam H. Beck, Also Stip
ulated That There Be No
Funeral Sermon.
Disposition of an estate valued at
approximately 00,000 Is made in the
wUl of William II .Beck, filed for pro
bate in the District Supreme Court to
day. "I wish no more than ono slnglo
flower from any single person," says the
testator; "no music, and no religious
services other than those of the Grand
Army, but do wish that any of my
friends who have anything to say will
be allowed to do so, as I prefer this to
the perfunctory sermons by clorgymen."
A sum of $1,600 Is devised by the will
to covor the expenses, traveling and
hotel, of threo friends of tho deceased
to the testator's funeral.
Bequesta of 11,000 each are made to
Children's Hospital, the Homo for In
curables, and tho Kplsoopal, Bye, Ear,
and Throat Hospital.
A dozen or more Government em
ployes, friends of the testator during
his life are made beneficiaries ef be
quests ranging from $100 to 11,009 by
the terms of the will. Among theso
beneficiaries are miss mna .-uorse, miss
Mary K. Bates, Miss Isabel Smith,
Navv Department; Miss Queenle Bmlth,
General Land .Oftlco; Mrs. Clara B.
Taylor. Miss Mary R. Wilcox. Bureau
of Indian Affairs, and Mrs. Nellie K.
Fealy, of tho Department of Agrlcul-
Af'ter numerous other similar be
quests, the testator leaves 150,000 to.
Royel C. Beok. a nephew, of Philadel
phia; $20,000 to Harry C. Beok, an
other nephew; $60,000 to Ada B.
Myers; nnd to Mrs. Mary U. McCoy
35,000 and an annuity of $200 a year.
Valeria R. Myers Is left the residue
of the estato and Is named as execu
tor. WAR HAS EFFECT ON
"MILADY'S LINES"
More Exercise And Less Fattening
Food Responsible.
NEW YORK. Oct. 23. War has mado
German women thin and given them
"elegant lines," according to Mme.
Frieda Hcmpel, Just back from Switz
erland. Where they formerly only attended
to their household duties, they are now
doing patriotic tasks, she says, and,
what Is more, tho pinch of food short
age causes them to eat less fattening
foods. . .. .
Germany wants peace, she declared,
and President Wilson has a great op
portunity to be peacemaker, ,.
ROUTS ROUMANIANS,
T A If IMP rnTQTAM7A
,u
invading forces in Dobrudja upture most
Important Roumanian Seaport and Ter
minus of Railroad; Hailed by Berlin as
Greatest Victory of Campaign.
BERLIN. Oct. 23. Constanza, Roumania.'s greatest seaport,
and only commercial outlet to
Field Marshal Mackensen's armies, it was officially announced tnis
afternoon.
Capture of the city is the greatest single achievement for the
central powers since Roumania entered the war eight weeks ago.
The victory is hailed by German military men as of more imp
portance than all the gains made by the allies since the Somme
offensive began.
Official dispatches from the German and Bulgarian war offices
indicate that the Russo-Roumanians have suffered a disastrous rout.
Smashing northward along the Black Sea coast, Mackensen's
army occupied first the Roumanian port of Tuzla and then swept
onward through strongly fortified Roumanian lines of defense,
marching twelve miles to Constanza in a little more than two days.
The rapidity of the Teutonic advance is accepted as an indi
cation that the Russians and Roumanians became demoralized and
made an extremely disordered retreat.
BERLIN EXPECTED VICTORY.
An official statement from Sofia earlier
In the day, reporting the capture of a
village six miles south of Constanza,
prepared Berlin for news of a great vic
tory. No surprise was manifested hero
when It was announced that Mackcnsen
had pushed on through the ruins of tho
old Trajan's wall and had occupied Con
stanza itself.
Since Roumania entered the war, Rus
sian trasports have been bringing Slav
troops, munitions, and other war sup
plies to the aid of the Roumanians.
TWELVE BODIES ARE
TAKEN FROM MINE
Expect Deaths From Explosion
to Reach Probably Twenty
When Rescue Is Over.
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.. Oct. 23,-The
death list resulting from tho gas ox
plosion In tho Marvel mine, thirty-five
miles south of Birmingham, will con
tain fifteen and possibly twenty names,
it became known today, when the
twelfth body was brought out by res
cuers. They reported at least three
more bodies to be recovered, and there
are Ave other men unaccounted for.
Tho rescue is being directed by Gov
ernment mine-rescue men, and State In
spector C H. Nesbitt Thousands of per
sons crowded about the shaft through
out the night
The mines were tested a few hours
previous to the explosion.
Surgeon's Strange
Death Causes Stir
Dr. Alexander A. Uhlc, Philadel
phia, Dies After Injection of
Cocaine for Operation.
PHILADELPHIA, Oct. 23. Medical
circles in this city have been stirred
to a high pitch by the peculiar death
of Dr. Alexander A. Uhlc, one of the
best-known surgeons In this country.
Joseph R. Stulb declared Dr. Uhle
had died after ho permitted Dr. H. F.
Rldpath to give him an Injection of
cocalno Saturday afternon prior to a
minor throat operation.
Both physicians are well-known
socially, as well ns professionally.
Stulb Is Dr. Utile's Itfe-lonir frlond,
and he accompanied him to witness
the operation. Dr. Uhle collaDsed
Immediately after the Injection, and
died In an ambulance going to the
Methodist Hospital. News of the
death was kept aulet until late yes
terday. Physicians at tho hospital
declared It is their belief that Dr.
Utile's heart was weak, and the drug
brought about a reaction that re
sulted In death.
Steel Hits New
High Record Price
NEW YORK, Oct, 23.-Unlted States
Steel, common, set a new high record
price at 121H. making a gain of $2 a
share during a throe - quartera - of - a - mll -
lion-snare-murwiiH un ma aiuun. ba
change today.
Gains of two or three points were
made by many market leaders, while
several specialities mover1 to new high
record prices.
Wheat Harvest of World
Is 25 Per Cent Below 1915
ROME, Oct. 23. The total wheat har
vest of the world Is estimated by the
International Agricultural Institute as 7
per oent below the averago and 25 per
cent below that of last year.
The Institute's report Includes for the
first time the crop or European Russia,
which It estimates to be 20 per cent less
than that of last year.
ARMYSOUTH
the Black Sea, has fallen before
Large bodies of Russian troops havo
arrived in Roumania through tho port
of Constanza, whoso capture by the cen
tral powers effectually puts an end to
the transportation of re-enforcements
via the Black Sea.
Tho thlrty-flvc-mltc Constanza-Cern.a-voda
railway, leading across the Bn
jibe, Is tho carrier over which Roumania
has derived a large quantity of her sup
pl5".,J The Teutonic- right wing Is now
astride that railway at Constanza. while
Mackensen's center and left wing aro
swinging forward to capturo the re
(Contlnued on Second Page.)
MERCHANTS APPEAL
FOR HALF HOLIDAY
Inform President Wilson of
Wishes of Local Business
Men in Telegram.
Tho Retail Merchants' Association to
day wired President Wilson n press
ing appeal on behalf of the business
men of Washington to grnnl tho Sat
urday halMiollday to department
clerks.
The association has always been an
advocate of tho extension of tho Sat
urday half-holiday to tho entire work
ing year. More than a year ago Sec
retary Charles J. Columbus took ud
the matter with tho heads of the de-
fiartmcnts, and the association author
zed that It bo discussed with Prcsl.
aeni nson.
Many conferences were held with
the heads of the executive depart
ments, but. owing to an opinion of
the Attorney General, then on flle. the
President did not see his way clear
to grant the Saturday half-holiday.
On his return to Washington this
morning President R. 1. Andrews di
rected that a telegram be sent to the
President renewing the associations
appeal, and adding the assurance that
the business men of Washington are
In hearty accord with what has come
to bo a unanimity of sentiment
among the heads of the executive de
partments themselves.
The telegram states:
President Wootlrow Wilson,
Shadow Lawn,
Long Branch, N. J.
Tho Retail Merchants' Association
respectfully renews Its appeal of a.
year ago for tho Huturdny half-holiday
for Government clerks. Its Intro
duction at this time would bo a won
derful help for the early Christmas
shopping movement and for business
generally, which certainly the country
would appreciate.
RETAIL MERCHANTS' ASSOCIA
TION, R. P. ANDREWS, President.
CHARLES J. COLUMBUS, Secretary.
Inspector For Gas
Co. Is Found Dead
Frederick R. Law Discovered In
Governor Hole by Fellow
Workers. Frederick
years old,
R. Law, twenty-seven
an inspector for the
Georgetown Gas Company, was found
dead in one of the governor holes of
the company at Thirty-second street
' oday
and Kllnglo road northwest at noon
He was found by Charles Donohuo
and George Jones, employes of the
company, who hurried him to George
town Hospital in a gas company au
tomobile. Dr. C. Leldell. at the hos
pital, pronounced him dead, presum
ably from Inhaling gas.
Law starHed out. this morntilg with
one of the company's automobile,
and when ho had not boen hoard
from by noon, Donohue and Jonns
were sent out to look for him. Tho
governor hies cntaln the apparatus
from which the flow of gas Into the
nouses in ine street is reguiaiea
Law was a son of Policeman James
Law, for ninny years a mounted man
in the Seventh precinct. He lived in
Grant road northwest. Coroner Is In
vestlgatlng the circumstances of his
death.
UNABLEFIRST OF
TO PUT STOP TO
NEGRO
E
Laborers Get Fast State
Guards in Migration to
' North.
300 PASS THROUGH CAPITAL
Reader of Party, During Stop
Here, Tells How Charges
Got Through.
A batch of D00 negro workmen from
Jacksonville, Fin., consigned to East
ern cities, arrived in Washington
Saturday night. The train came over
the Atlantic Coast Line railroad, and
tho negroes havo already been sent
on to tholr destinations.
The tralntoad of negroes was In
charge of a former Washlngtonlan.
well known In this city, who has
mado Jacksonville his homo for some
yours. Ho talked freely about it. tell
ing tho methods of getting the
negroes past tho State guards, and
other details.
He ktfew of no uollllo.nl nut-nose to
thfl AVnnrtntlnn nt ti.ffm.i frnm tliA
South, seeing In it only the economic
fact of tho men going where they
could get higher wages.
Visited Labor Department.
The conductor of the 300 negroes paid
visits to the Department of Labor and
Justice this morning, to see If his ac
tivities had violated any laws or regu
lations. Officials of both departments
were much Interested in his atntcment,
but would mako no comment on It.
It was learned that up to a few
months ago the Department of Labor
had been transporting labor from the
South to Northern points, where It se
cured them employment. It discon
tinued this practice about August of
this year. Several hundred negroes aro.
understood to havo been brought North
b It bcfnro that time. That its opera
tions In Florida were not without fric
tion with tho local authorities was the
statement of a Florida, man. No reason
was asslgntd by l'b department" for
Its cessation of the transport of negroes
North.
Two conflicting views of the move
ment of negroes from the South to
Northern States have been taken by
high officials here. One of those opin
ions Is to tho effect that tho move
ment Is for political purpose, purely
and simply, and that the negroes are
wanted In certain closely contested
border States to vole the Republican
ticket nnd turn tho election.
Another view that has found favor
In the minds qf offlcluls Is that the
movement is solely nn economic one.
Those holding this view point to the
need for labor, skilled nnd unskilled,
on Northern railroads and Industrial
establishments. That these concerns
aro Instrumental In Imumtlng negroes
from tho South to take the places of
Italians. Ruthenlans, Slovaclcs, and
other foreigners who have In the past
been employed Is urged.
Wanted In Trenton.
"When we wero nearly here," he de
clared, "a man entered the train nnd
approached mo, giving his credentials as
a company representative. 'I want
twenty-five educated ncgroe, men who
can read and write, for Trenton. N. J..'
ho told mo. Ho said that ho wanted
them there to take tho place of baggogo
smashers with a transfer company. Ho
,lrl.r.l thnt lnhnr wan a scarce article
In Trenton, as so many foreigners had
returned to Europe to fight In tho war.
"About 100 of the men I brought with
me went to Baltimore. Others went
farther North. Moat of them went
with a certain large Eastern railroad,
which has been clamoring for men for
some time. I understand that other
Eastern roads Intend to adopt the same
methods to get men." ,
The labor agent declared that an
average of $2 per head was paid by
Eastern cmployors to agents bringing
negroes from the South. He described
the difficulty of getting the men out
of the South, and the subtorfuges
employed. .... .
"It Is six months In Jail In Florida
If vnn nrn nitiirht." ho said.
That 10,000 negroes have been
brought North from tho fitnte of Flor
ida alono was tho estimate of The
Times' Informant, who declared that
tho labor market of tho South wns
being sadly depleted by the exodus
of negroes.
THREE ELECTROCUTED
IN BETHLEHEM PLANT
Tragedy Caused By Electricians'
Mistake, Is Charge.
ALLENTOWN.Pa.. Oct. 23.-A search
Ing Investigation Into tho death of three
men, who wero electrocuted at tho mam
of the Bethlohcm Steol Company last
night. Is under way hero today. Tho
men were tho victims of a mistake by
an electrician, It is charged.
Tho victims, nil electricians, wero re
pairing a h'gh-tenslon wire. It Is sold
nnotho rman turned on tho current.
Four others near tho who narrowly es
caped a similar fate.
Express Earnings
Show Big Increase
Four Hundred Per Cent Rise
in Income Is
Shown.
A 400 per cent Increase In operat
ing income of nine Intorstnto express
companlos during tho fiscal year of
1910 over the fiscal year 1013 was
reported by the Interstate Commerco
Commission today. The figures wero
110,580,000, against 2,656,00.
A total of 1176,000,000 was collected
during the year as express cnareei.
xonus
OF RAILROADS IN U. S.
GIVEN OUT BY I. C. C.
WLBEMh Si-. mB
JUDGE C. A. PROUTY.
BAKER WEI
FOR
ROOSEVELT
Secretary of War an "Amiable
Pacifist Unfit for Present
Position' Says Colonel.
ALBUQUERQUE, N. M.. Oct. 23.
Colonel Roosevelt fairly nto his way
through Albuiiucrque. New Mexico's
largest city, today. Due for a flvo
hour stop, ho wns given n breakfast
roceptlon from 8 to 9:30 and a noon
day banquet from 12 to 1:30 after
he hnd spoken at 10 a. in.
Secrotary of War Baker was the
particular target for Roosovelt's cam
pnlgn dnrta today.
It became known today that tho
Colonel probably will answer the ap
peals of West Virginians and stop in
tnat Ntnie wnen lie goes to Haltlmore
to sneak Monday or Tuesday of next
week.
Tho secret of tho unexpectedly long
stop at Gallup, N. M., came out today.
At Gallup tho Colonel got his worst '
tnste of heckling. Tho Roosevelt spe
cial was supposed to stop less than
five minutes. It was held up twenty
flvo minutes. It has since been learned
that somo ono turned a screw which
kept tho brakes tight until every
brake wns examined nnd the trouble
remedied. Rallrond officials havo
started an Investigation. ,
Roosevelt's speech was largely de-'
voted to an attack on Newton D. I
Baker, Secretnry of War. I
"When men occupy an Improper and
unpatriotic position and seek to Justify
themselves by precedents from tho
(Continued on Second Page.)
Fairfax Man Loses
His Life in Wreck
Engineer John R. Francis Loses
Life in Crash Near Per-
ryman, Md.
WILMINGTON, Del,, Oct. 23.-Taklng
a closed switch at a high lato of speed
near ferryman, Md., early this morn
ing, a Baltimore nnd Ohio freight truln
wns derailed nnd wrecked, nnd En
gineer John R. Francis, of Falrfnx, Vu.,
and Fireman B. R. Randall, of Coak
ley, Md., wero Instantly killed.
Whiln tho englno nnd thirteen cars
wero piled up on tho tracks, a light en
glno cnisnca Into the wreckage, Injur
ing fireman Algard, who was removed
to a Baltimore hospital.
Trafllc was dolayed by tho wreck
until 10 o'clock this morning. All trains
being switched over tho Pennsylvania
lines between Bay View and this city.
Flier Drops Flowers
For Mrs. Wilson's Grave
ROME, Ga., Oct. 23.-A wreath of
flowers entwined with an American
flag, was dropped from a height of
1,400 feot by John Green, nn aviator, on
tho cemetery hore In which Mro, Ellon
Wilson, wlfo of tho President, Is burled.
The wreath wns placed on Mrs. Wil
son's grave as Homo's tribute to her
memory.
British Steamer Sunk.
LONDON, Oct. 23. The British steam
er Fortuna has been sunk. Ten of tho
crew were landed today, but It is be
lieved the captain and fifteen others
were drowned.
VALUATIONS
LAKE ERIE STORM
SHAFTSTOLL IS GROWING
Feared Another Steamer Has
Foundered With Its Crew of
Twenty-five Men.
TOLEDO, Ohio, Oct. a. Tho steamer Congress that tho roads of tho United
Matthews. Captain Cunningham, ar- States were overcapitalized and their
rived here early today with tho bodies security Issues badly watered,
of three sailors wearing life belts of tho j p,.i n.it-
steamer Merldo. Tho Mcrida was bound ., 1 uencral
for Buffalo, and was duo last Saturday. I ,Int,.,Vas,8l,vn T8 ' Pnlon of offl-
The Mcrida, owned by James Play- SftL" "' nlh" , ,ntf" C"merco
fair, of Midland. Ontario, sailed from ol?,',l"n y ,' .he. """"J"8
Fort William. Ontario, with a crew of Son nn.,!, n '?"!! '" th C?UniY
twenty-nve. tho middle of last week. .M ?.,, ?!!!' j"""
Th Mri,lA u-n ln.t Hn Frlrtnv morn- cou,d down and that omo
The Mcrida was last seen JTiaay morn-! roatI( -wou,d De round neaViiy orer-
Ing at 10 o'clock by tho Btcamcr Briton capitalized nnd some would not
off tho Southeast shoals. Lake Erie. What tho aggregate for the country
Tlho bodies were picked up by the' W'H show when the valuation U fln
Matthev.s oft Port Stanley, Ontario. Bevoral ye" nce Is specula-
yesterday morning. The tontatlvo valuation figures, as
Tho Mcrldn. bound for Buffalo, was given out today, ascribo to the Texas
under tho command of Cupt. H. 8. Midland, with 111 miles, a value, less
Jones, of Buffalo. Fear wns expressed depreciation, of 2,C27,417.
today tnat to ine long nsi or casuniucs
from tho lake storm will bo added ull of
the crew of tho Mcrida.
Thirty-four dead Is tho known toll now
of tho storm, with twenty-one of the
Merida's crew unaccounted for.
Tho report of Cnpt. Alexander Mc
Donald of tho Harvey Goulder that ho
had found the Inke "full of wrcckago"
which ho could not Identify, caused tho
fear that other steamers ns yet unre
ported may have foundered with loss of
Capt. Walter J. Grashaw. Cleveland
blnn.. irn. tltA nnlv Hlirvlvnt nt thn
whalebark Jamen 13. Colgato s crow of
twenty-five. Ho was picked up from a
rnfY vVntVninv nff fonnoiiut rcpruuucuoii 01 roan ana equipment.
pLfthi Ciinnlnghnm reported tho depreciation Is not taken Into con
bom?, were "frond flY"y iX we.t of ;ldc?"' C0,It reproduction U
Long Point, Ontario. Ho said tho r;!,",,u; , . , .. ... .
freighter Charlotto G. Brlctung also had . ,T o total outstanding capital and lla
plcked UP four bodies In the sumo vl- ! WHtlM of tho company, us of June W.
clnity. believed to havo been from the . !2!4; '", ,vel by tho commission as $54,
Merlda. taking them to Sandwich, On- Lli 6.H.
tiro. The Merida's homo port Is Chi- In addition, thcio were outstanding
iiJo $4,994,(00 of receiver's certificates and
Homo unidentified wrcckago has been certain other paper, whoso liability the
sighted Atlanta company shaicd with a con-
Search was begun today for tho forty- structlon company,
one missing, though llttlo hope was i The road has $3.000,ft common nnd
held out that any would bu found I $lo,000,000 preferred stock, nnd a total
alive ' of WWW mortgogo bonds outstand-
Tho storm was tho most disastrous lng In addition to equipment notes and
Ijko KVlO lias seen since mo ureal
Lakes storm of November, 1013, when
sovontccn vessels weni aown.
Margate England,
Attacked From Air
Man And Woman Slightly Injured
And Hotel Damaged by Bombs
from Zeppelins.
LONDON, Oct. 23. Tho English
watering place of Margate, eighty
mU.es southeast of London, was raid-
od by German air torces inia inurniuK,
and throo bombs dropped, It was offl-
I dally announced thU afternoon.
I The Cllftonvllle Hotel wns slightly
damaged and a man and woman wero
slightly injured
BERLIN (via wireless to Sayvlllo),
Oct. 23. "A German seaplnno squud
ron successfully bombarded llrltlnh
sea forces off the Flanders coast Sat
urday afternoon," It was officially
announced todny. "One hit wns ob
served upon a destroyer. All raiders,
In spite of heavy shelling, returned
unharmed." '
MUCH 'ITER' FOUND
III CAPITAL OFIE
Atlanta, Birmingham and Atlan
tic's, Liabilities Declared to
Exceed Its Worth.
HETTY GREEN ROAD IS 0. K.
Texas Midland Value Placed
High Above Its Capitaliza
tion Subject to Review.
The Interstate Commerce Com
mission tofiay began answering tho
question :
"Are the railroads of America
overcapitalized?"
Tentative valuations of two rail
roads, as made by the physical val
uation division, of which Judge' C.
A. Prouty is the head, were an-'
nounced through the commission.
These roads are the Texas Mid
land, and the Atlanta, Birmingham
and Atlantic, both well-known line
1 nP .t. C...U
FIRST TO BE VALUED.
These aro tho first roads in tho Country
whose valuations havo been tentatively
finished, subject to review by the en
tire commission.
In the caso of tho Texas Midland,
which Is known ns tho Hetty Green
road. It Is found that Its value exceeds
Its capitalization. But in tho caso of
tho Atlanta, Birmingham and Atlantic,
It Is found that tho capital and liabili
ties outstanding are far In excess of
the valuation figures of the commission.
When tho physical valuation law
was passed It was declared freely In
, " mu iui vi reproduction ann
Is exclusive of certain land. The
capital stock and mortgage Indebted
ness Is $2,112,000. Of this, $112,000 Is
capital stock at par.
Value More Than Liabilities.
Comparison of valuation nnd of the
capital and mortgage liability against
tho road shows that Its value exceeds
tho paper ugnlnst It.
The Atlanta, Birmingham, and Atlan
tic, with a llttlo over C33 miles, Is given
a valuation, with depreciation allowed
for, of $18,071,930. This is the cost of
: iotivw" uun-.-i.
Results Now Expected.
Tho fixing of tho tentative valuations
of tho two roads nnmed Indicates that
the operations of the physical valuation
division havo reached a point where
they will show results. Flgures'bn other
roads will bo unuounccd In the near
futuie.
Tho next question Is whether the roads
will be nbto to combat successfully the
figures tentatively sot forth. In tho
announcement by (ho commission to- ,
dny, It Ic stated tho roads will havo
thirty days from November 1 to file
protests to tho commission.
If they make p. showing In protest,
their objections will be heard. Other
wise the commission will order the fig
ures of the physical valuation division
to stand.
Surveys ProRrcsslnR Rapidly.
Such rapid progress has been made In
tho field survey work In valuing the
roads that In round numbors tho survey
of 100,000 of tho iJO,oSo miles of road In
this country has been complotcd.
Tho survey Is going aheud at the rate
of 60,000 miles u year and In threo years
more will be finished.
It will tako a year after that for the
valuation division to complete Its of
fice work and the fixing of prloes.
But In the meantime, prices will be
computed on one road after another a
Bl ROAD
1
