rHE BARKE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 187.
liAMlE, VERMONT, MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
CONSTANZA HAS
FALLEN BEFORE
JOINT ATTACK
Eight guns, 20 machine guns and much
war material 1ms f alU-it into the hands
of the Bulgarians.
Petrograd Admits Retreat.
Petrograd, via London, Oct. 23. Rus
sian and l it mini in n troops in Dobrudja
arc coiitinu in to retreat, the war olliee
announced to-day. They are offering a
stubborn resistance to Field Marshal Yon
Mackonsen'n army.
On the Transyivaninn front, the Ru
imininns made attack yesterday, com
pelling the Austro-Gernians to retire
Germans and Bulgarians SXZtS:
Have Captured One of the bor"'-v, "'m ss- .
1 Austro-Grman forces made a new at-
Most Important Object- tRrk 78tr,r(,',v' Ktrik,inrT nort,h ('f hr"''
1 " near the olhvnian-Galician border. The
ives of Field Marshal Von Vft,r "mre ""J'8 the ait were -
puisca.
ASSASSIN IS
HELD FANATIC
Slayer of Austria's Premier
Maintains Complete
Composure
Mackensen's Offensive in
Dobrudja Region
LATTER'S LEFT WING
NEAR1NG DANUBE
FRENCH CAPTURED
WHOLE OF SPUR NO. 128
Made New Progress in the Neighborhood
of Sailly-Saillisel, Says the
French Statement.
Paris, Oct. 23. French troops in the
8oinrae region have fought their way for
ward in ttie neighborhood of Sailly-Sail-
Constanza IS the Eastern lis,l; capturing the entire spur No. 12S,
nonnwesi, 01 ine village, me war Olliee
Terminus of Only Rail- announces. .
road Between the Black GERMAN PROTEST
Sea and the Danube ON NORWAY EMBARGO
ADLER'S ACT IS DE
PLORED IN AUSTRIA
EVIDENCES OF STRUGGLE.
Man Who Shot Stuergkh
Was Long Held in
Fear
Mackensen's Left Wing
Continues Great Drive
Berlin, via London, Oct. 23. The Ru
manian fort of Constanza has been cap
tured by the Germans, the war oflice an
nounced to-day, and the troops of the cabinet held a meeting and discussed the
Action of Latter Government Concerning
Submarines Is Said to Conflict with
Hague Convention.
Christiania, via London, Oct. 23. The
German minister lias presented to the
Norwegian government a note protesting
against Norway's embargo on the 'sub
marines of belligerent countries. The
central powers have crossed the railway
running between the Black sea port of
Constanza and the river Danube at a
point east of Murfatler, the statement
nayR. The fortress of Constanza was
taken by German and Bulgarian troops.
On the left wing of Von Mackensen's
note, but its decision has not been made
public.
The press unanimously supports the
government in its right to issue such an
ordinance as Sweden has already done.
London, Oct. 23. Or. Alfred Zimtner-
mann, the German under secretary for
foreign affairs, is quoted bv the Nor
wegian correspondent of the Copenhagen
Vienna, via London, Oct. 23. Dr.
Friedrich Adler, the assassin of the Aus
trian premier, who is being held by the
police awaitinf trial, maintains complete
composure, throughout the empire Ad
lcr's act is deplored and is looked upon
as a deed of a fanatic.
Government circles regard the killing
of Stuergkh as the act of a political
crank, which can in nowise influence the
political situation or the course of the
war.
Where Body of Frank Dwinnell Was
Found Near Walpole.
Bellows Falls, Oct. 23. A body, be
lieved to be that of Frank Dwinnell, 55,
of Walpole, N. II., was found by dames
Kane of this place yesterday afternoon
in North Walpole, which lies across the
Connecticut river from Bellows Falls.
The body was found alaiiit 00 feet from
a pathway leading to Tablerock, an ele
vation on Mt. Kilburn, much visited by
local mountain climbers.
Kane notified Police Officer Patrick Ty-
man and the officer and Selectman, Wil
liam J. Corbett of North Walpole, went
to the place where the body was lying.
Selectman Corbett found the body near
the foot of the mountain. 1 he ground
had been torn up, evidently by the strug
gles of the man, and the right hand tight,
ly grasped a piece of wild grape vine.
While Mr. Corbett says he does not
suspect foul play other evidence will not
he made public by the selectmen until
the arrival here of Medical Examiner
Densmoro and Sheriff Lord of Keene, N.
H. The body is in Fenton & Hennessey's
morgue here awaiting the arrival of the
Cheshire county officials.
It is thought death occurred during the
rain storm last Thursday night or early
Friday morning, jlwinnell lived in Wal
pole and had an ajged mother there. He
was of a roving disposition it is said,
and had been a painter by trade.
PROMINENT STOWE MAN.
Albert H. Cheney Was Visiting in
Worcester, Mass.
Stowe, Oct. 23. Albert Henry Cheney,
a well known and prominent resident of
this place, who represented Stowe in the
'gislature of 1802, died suddenly Sunday
English Town Was Attacked mon,in at tlu" ,,omo of ,,is dufe'ht;r at
BOMBS FELL
ON MARGATE
To-day by German
Aeroplane
HOTEL DAMAGED: .
TWO PEOPLE HURT
British Aeroplanes Went in
Pursuit of the
Raider
CHILD VICTIM DEAD.
CALLS ASSASSINATION
OF THE PREMIER
ACT OF FANATIC
Berlin Newspapers are of One Mind in
Declaring that Adler Was Ir
rcsponible When He Killed
Stuergkh.
Berlin, Sunday, via London, Mondav,
Oct. 23. All accounts in the morning pa;
pers agree in calling the assassination of
Premier Stuergkh of Austria as the deed
of an irresponsible political fanatic if
not or a neurasthenic, whose mind was
army, the Germans and their allies are Aftenposten, according to an Exchange (giving way under the strain of the war,
approaching the Danube town of Teher- telegraph despatch, as declaring that the
I ' .. i i . XL. . -v' ...
tifimiin nun u im orweirmn govern
merit
T, ,.Vfllfl
In , (HIP (.'UIIIPTK! 1M1 1110.1
Vnrwav's action nnnfliftH with rmrHm'Bnli
Constanza was one of the principal ob- 13 of Tlp irtJfR convention and is in
ject ives of Field Marshal Von Maeken- compatible with strict neutrality and,
sen In the Dobrudja's campaign. It is of furthermore, that Germany will not
the B,,nnl1'- TO "cn action.
iuring tne continuance or tne negotia
particular importance because it is
eastern terminus of the only railroad be
tween the Black sea and the Danube
GERMANS REPULSED
COMBINED ATTACK
ON THE SOMME
tions, the correspondent, adds, many Ger
man submarines are operating off the
Norwegian coast and are stopping and
examining vessels leaving Norwegian
harbors.
ENTENTE FORCES
WIN NEAR CERNA
Berlin Army Headquarters Announced
That Efforts of French and British
Between Le Sars and Ran
court Were Stopped.
Bulgarians Counter Attacked Vigorously
But Sustained Heavy
Losses.
Pa ris," Oct. 23. Desperate tightins? in
Berlin, via London, Oct. 23. Attacks the bend of the Cerna on the Macedonian
launched by British and French forces front resulted favorably to the entente
against German positions between Le forces, according to the war oflice. The
, bars ana Haitcourt in the somme region Bulgarians counter attacked in strong
were repulsed yesteruay wtin sanguinary force, but were defeated by the .Serbians,
losses, the army Headquarters announces, who inflicted heavy losses on the attack-
On the north bank of the hirnime a tre- era.
mendouB artillery battle continued ves-
terda v.
DRIFTED TWO DAYS ON RAFT.
Sole Survivor of Wreck on Lake Erie; 21
Men Lost.
Cleveland, O., Oct. 23. Storm -swept
laice f.ne yesterday gave ud the story
1 nf iha .lTn..rn:...v f Ol .1 il . 1......
They Also Set Off Two Mines, and the or the" haS JamWTcWa fT The
GERMANS SHELLING
BRITISH LINES
British Promptly Occupied the
Near Lip of the Crater.
London, Oct. 23. ''During the night
there was considerable enemy shelling
against our front between LeSars and
Guedeeourt," says to-day's official an
nouncement; "our troops now occupy the
near lip of two mine craters formed by
the enemy yesterday at the bluffs south
of Ypres and are satisfactorily estab
lishing their positions." '
Twice during Sunday in the morning
and in the .afternoon the Germans
aun.iad vinlonfr. nttanVa aiitiinal Vi o
riewlv-won French positions in the Chaul- '.ne B"rvivr wa "ahle to give a list of
lies wood, south of the Somme river in " crew, owing to tne many changes
France. Both attacks were repulsed, the de, avJl!?al J,,fit .befor.e v'
Germans suffering heavy casualties, gays
Paris. Some of the attackers in the
big steel boat sailed from Buffalo Friday
morning for Fort William with coal. She
sank that night off Long Foint, Canada
Her master, Capt. Walter Grashaw of
this city, drifted on a raft for two nights
and a day before he was rescued by the
ferry steamer Marquette and Bessemer
No. 2 off Rondeau, Canada. Half dead
from exposure, he was brought ashore
late yesterday at Conneaut, O.
Everyone of the crew of 21 perished,
IS when the Colgate foundered in Fri-
lay's storm and two when exhaustion
forced them to relinquish their bold on
the raft that carried their captain. The
morning offense gained a foothold in the
French first line, but were surrounded
and the 150 survivors made prisoners.
Berlin, in admitting that in Saturday's
fighting the British north of the Somme
made gains, characterized the British
losses as a "reckless sacrifice of human
lives." Several trenches between Biaches
and La Maisonnette, south of the Somme,
were recaptured Saturday from the
French, says Berlin.
10,000 ITALIANS
TO BE SENT HOME
BY GERMANY
They Are Said to Be Unfit for Military
Service and Germany Does Not
Wish to Feed Them.
sailed. Of the men shipped at Buffalo,
however, eight are known to have been
from New York state points.
Capt. Grashaw said Ins two compan
ions on the raft were Second F.ngineer
Harry Ossmann of Cleveland and a coal
passer whose name he did not know and
who had shipped at Buffalo just before
the Colgate left there. His story fol
lows: "We were passing Long point at 6 or
7 o'clock Friday night when trouble be
gan. The boat sprang a leak forward.
We all were aft at the time and immedi
ately we could feel her tipping and set
tling at the head.
"I5y 10 o'clock the storm had increased
so that the Colgate didn't, have a chance.
The gale was terrific. We got the life
raft ready just as the boat was so far
down that her decks were awash.
"When she sank everybody jumped
into the water. I went down and when
T came up, by some chance my hand
touched the raft. I grabbed it and pulled
myself on it just as Second Engineer
Harry Ossmann and the coal parser
Lreaehed it. What happened to the others
I don t know. I never saw them again.
They must have been sucked right down
with the ship.
"Then our awful fight began. Twice
)r. Freiedrieh Adler, the assassin, is de
scribed as a man of a naturally fanatic
temperament and one in whose family
insanity runs.
They say that Adler had given the im
pression for-months of one whose nerve
was stretched to the breaking point and
his wild demeanor caused much agitation
in the Austrian Socialist central commit
tee, of which he was secretary! Young
Adler led a small but vehement opposi
tion to the policy of the party under his
fathers leadership.
Vienna, Oct. 23, via Berlin and Say
ville wireless to the Associated Press.
The assassination of the Austrian pre
mier, i. -omit Ian Stuergkh, was purely
political and was induced by his refusal
to convene Parliament, according to the
admission of Dr. Friederick Adler, his
assailant, shortly after his arrest.
Dr.- Adler is an eccentric and super
radical Socialist, sometimes known as
"The Liebknetch of Austria." He is edi
or of Dcr Kampf. At first he declined
to reveal his motives, but after hems
locked-up he broke down.
Dr. Adlcr's arrest ' wa accomplished
only after he wounded two men who
leaped at him after he had fired on Count
Stuergkh. He discharged the two re
maining chambers of his revolver at these
men before Austrian and German offi
cers, with drawn sabres, overpowered
him. The wounded men, who were in-i
jured slightly, are Baron Aehrenthal, j
brother of the late foreign minister, and
the head waiter of the Hotel Meissi Und
Schadii, in which the shooting occurred.
Count Stuergkh arrived at the hotel at
1 : 30 o'clock. With him at luncheon were
Baron Aehrenthal, Count Toggenburg,
governor of Tyrol, Herr K. Jaeubson, a
prominent Vienna musician and an actor
from the Court theatre. At two o'clock
a man unknown to the premier arrived
and took a seat three tables away. He
ate luncheon and lingered at the table.
Shortly after three o'clock he ar(e, ad
vanced rapidly toward the premier and
fired three shots. The first missed. The
next two struck the premier in the head.
Count Stuergkh fell lifeless.
Baron Aehrenthal sprang toward Ad
ler. The head waiter ran up from be
hind the assassin ami grasped the hand
that held the revolver. Adler wrested his
arm free and fired two shots. Baron
Aehranthal was wounded in the foot. The
waiter received only a superficial wound.
Seeing that the struggle was hopeless.
Dr. Adler surrendered to the o dicers who
crowded upon him. Apparently he was
Chicopee Police are Seeking Man on
MeagTe Clues.
Chicopee, Mass., Oct. 23. Aroused by
the brutality of the murder of three-
year-old I.eona Kaezor, citizens and police
of Chicopee are scouring the vicinity in
search of an unknown man, thought to
have committed the crime. The child
died yesterday afternoon at the Mercy
hospital as a result of wounds inflicted
sometime la to Saturday.
The nature of the assault is of such
a revolting nature that Chicopee is
stirred to the highest pitch of excite
ment. The mutilated body of the child
was found hidden under the porch of a
deserted house early Saturday evening.
She was last seen -playinjj in her front
yard. According to a witness, a shabbily
dressed man. apparently a foreigner, had
been seen about thf home of the child.
The little girl wss missing only for
about 30 minutes before being found.
Owing to the meagre clues field by the
police it is feared that the murderer will
not be apprehended,'
London, Oct. 23. A hostile aeroplane
appeared to-dav over Margate, on the
southeastern coast of Lugland, and
dropped three bombs. Slight damage was
caused to a hotel, and one man and one
woman were slightly injured
aeroplanes pursued the raider.
DESTROYER HIT
BY GERMAN BOMB
OFF FLANDERS
DIED AT N0RTHFIELD.
Mrs.
Mass.,
Mary Dwyer of Maiden,
Was Visiting There.
Xorthfield. Oct. 23.- Mrs. Mary (Dono
vain Dwyer, aged tiW, died at the home of
her sister, Mrs. Daniel McCarthy of Slate
avenue, Saturday evening at 0 o'clock,
the end following an illness of long
standing. Death was due to heart trou
ble. Mrs. Dwyer'a home was in Maiden,
Mass., but for the past three months she
una been making her nome with her sis
ter. She leaves two sisters, Mrs. Mc
Carthy and Mrs. W. H. Cuulngham of
Montreal, a brother, John Donovan of
St. Albans, and two nieces, Mrs. Patrick
Mullin and Mrs. John Ha derail of Mon
treal. The funeral will be held in St. John's
church Tuesday morning at 10 o'clock,
the .pastor, Rev. J. A. Lynch, officiating.
Interment will be in St. John's cemetery. .
Berlin Tells of Successful Seaplane Raid
After Which Squadron Returned
Unharmed.
in poor health for some time, but his
death was unexpected. With his wife
and his daughter, Mrs. William L.
Haines, who had been visiting here, ho
went to Worcester only Saturday. The
body will he brought here and services
Will probably be held Wednesday.
Mr. t liency was born in Stowe on Sep
tember 14, '1S5.", and spent practically
all of his life here, with the exception
of two or three years in Waterburv. In
his early lifa he was a farmer and aft
erwards took up the insurance business.
He was a talented musician and taught
singing for many years in this village,
Waterbury, Middlesex and other places,
and for a great many years had been di
rector of the choir of the Congregational
church, of which he was deacon. He sang
at hundreds of funerals.
In 1807 upon his return to Stowe from
Waterbury he, was appointed postmaster
and remained in office until earlv in the
present year. He was a member of Mys
tic lodge, F. & A. M. He held many
British "l('e f trust and was administrator of
many estates, was a library trustee ana
school director.
He first married Florilla Chaplin, who
died in 1001. They bad three children
ho survive; Walter A. Cheney of Mil
ton, Mass., Mrs. W. L. Haines of
Worcester, Mass., and Harold L. Cheney
of Duluth. In 1002 he married Miss
Mary Straw, who survives him.
TWO OF FIVE
WERE KILLED
As Automobile Went Over
a Bank and Overturned
Near St. Johnsbury
BODY RECOVERED.
Berlin (by wireless), Oct. 23. A Ger
man seaplane squadron on Oct. 21 suc
cessfully attacked with bombs the Brit
ish sea forces off the Flanders coast, the
admiralty announced to-dav. One hit. a
destroyer, was observed. All the raiders noon yesterday, just two weeks from the
Earl C. Morrill was Drowned Two Weeks
Ago in Lake Champlain.
Burlington, Oct. 23. The body of Earl
C. Morrill of this city was found about
returned unharmed, notwithstanding the
heavy shelling.
FRENCH AIRSHIPS
HIT BLAST FURNACES
Scored Hits at Stations Near Metz, Ac
cording to Paris Official
Statement.
Paris, Oct. 23. Four tons of projectiles
have been dropped by the French air
squadron of 21 machines on blast fur
naces north of Met!! and on the M-tz and
Thionville stations, the war office an
nounced to-day. Hits were secured on all
objectives, it is declared. Another French
flotilla bombarded factories at Rombach.
AEROPLANE SHOT DOWN.
British Naval Aircraft Resisted One Ger
man Raider.
CALIFORNIA SHAKEN.
Two Earthquake Shocks Were Felt Sun
day Evening.
Fresno, Cal., Oct. 23. According to re
ports received here, two earthquake
shocks were felt throughout southern
California hint night w'nioh were severe at
Bakersfield and in the oil fields in that
district. Power lines between Bakers-
field and Los Angeles were said to have
been damaged ami it was reported that
a Santa Fe railroad ticket office at Te
hachapi was wrecked,
Los Angeles, Oct. 23. Two slight
earthquake shocks were felt here and in
neighboring towns 'early last night.
Chandeliers and pictures on walls were
shaken and crockery was tumbled from
shelves, but no material damage has been
reported. The first shock was felt at
6: 45 o'clock, the second ten minutes later.
Each lasted several seconds.
London, Oct. 23. A Carman aeroplane
appeared yesterday over the fortified sea
port of Sheerneso, at the mouth of the
Thames. Four bombs were dropped. Xo
casualties have been reported officially.
An official communication issued last
night says:
"A hostile seaplane was shot down and
destroyed this afternoon bv one of our
naval aircraft. The enemy machine fell
into the sea. Judging by time, it was
probably the seaplane which visited
Sheerness to day."
The following official account of tha
attack at Sheorness was given out:
"A hostile aeroplane approached Sheer
ness at about 1:45 p. m., flying very
high. Four bombs were dropped, three of
which fell into the harbor. The fourth
fell in the vicinity of a railway sta
tion and damaged several railway carriages.
"British aeroplanes went up and the
raider made off in a northeasterly direc
tion. Xo casualties have been report
ed."
NEW DEMAND ON uREECE
Includes Removal of Greek Troops to
Southern Territory. .
London, Oct. 23. The presentation of
the entente allies of further demands on
Greece, including tho removal of Greek
troops to the southern part of the conn
THREE NEW CASES
time the man met death, on the west
shore of Grand Isle, about seven miles
from the place in the lake between Hog
back island and the long till of the Rut
land railroad, where Mr. Morrill and
John Smith were drowned on Sunday
morning. Oct. R, when thev fell from
motor boat in which they, with four
others, were traveling to the fishing
grounds in Malletts bay. The body of
Smith wag recovered Thursday morning,
Oct. 12.
The body was found bv Louis Law
rence of Grand Isle, who was walking on
cliff which rises about 30 feet above
the rorkv shore upon which the body
was lying. The shore i a part of the
Eastern Fruit Xut Orchard Co. farm
on the west side of the island about a
mile north of Gordon's landing.
Dr. G. H. Branch, health officer of
Grand Isle, was notified, as were the se
lectmen. A. A. Hyde and R. E. Minkler.
When the body was taken from the wa
ter it was u n recognizable as that of Mr.
Morrill, identification being made by cer
tain papers and cheeks found in the
drowned man's bill fold. The body was
taken in charge by W. F. Park-, under
taker at Grand Isle, and removed to his
rooms. Daniel J. Whitton. brother-in-law
of Mr. Morrill, and' other relatives
went to Grand Isle and last evening the
body was brought to the undertaking
rooms of Read Jt Dower in this city.
Mr. Morrill was 33 years of age, born
in Huntington, the son of Nettie (Crane)
and O. H. Morrill. He married Miss
Clara Tah'oft in this city 10 years ago.
Resides his wife he is survived by four
children. Eleanor, Isabel, George and
Earl C. Morrill, jr., all under eight years
of age; his father, and one sister, Mrs.
M. W. Wells of Huntington.
MR. AND MRS. E. MORSE
OF LYNDON DE4D
They Had Spent S' in
Calais and Had -arly
Reached Tie
St. Johnsbury, Oct. 23. Mr. and Mrs.
Edmund C. Morse of Lyndon were in
stantly killed early last evening when
their touring car went through a fence
nd overturned at the foot of the em
bankment near the Maplewood farm
about four miles north of here. Mr.
Morse, a merchant, was 53 years of age
and his wife was 44.
With Mr. and Mrs. Morse were Mis
Amelia Lee, Miss Maud Wetherbee and
Miss Alice Bancroft, all teachers in the
public school of Lyndon. They wera
returning from a trip to Calais, tho home
of Miss Bancroft, and were within three
miles of Lyndon when they struck a
narrow strip of road. There they met
another car, and Mr Morse, evidently
dazed by the bright glare of the lights,
swerved too much to one side and lost
control of the car when it left the road.
The machine dashed through the fence
and turned turtle, pinning all beneath.
i lie three young women were in the
back seat and managed to get out with
out assistance, but Mr. and Mrs. Morse
were caught by the steering wheel and
the back of the front seat and were
crushed so badly that they died instant
ly. The road is much traveled and mo
torists quickly gathered and helped lift
the car from the victims.
Miss Wetherbee suffered slight concus
sions and had to be attended by a physi
cian. Miss Bancroft was somewhat
bruised about one hip. Miss Lee escaped
unhurt.
After the town officials had been noti
fied the bodies were taken to the under
taking rooms of Dodge & Watson at
Lyndonville. The funeral will be held
Wednesday at the Morse home at Lyn
don, with burial at Lyndon Center.
Mr. Morse was a native of Cabot and
had been in business at Lyndon for 15
years, previously having been pnsfnas
ter. His wife was a native of Concord.
They leave one eon, Leslie, 14 years old.
Mr. Morse is survived by five brothers
and two sisters, of whom W. E. Morse, a
jeweler, and Mrs. Alice Robinson live in
Burlington. Mrs. Morse leaves an aged
mother, a brother and three sisters.
ONLY ONE INJURED.
When Automobile Was Thrown
Bank and Overturned.
Over
THE ST. JOHNSBURY GAME
the calmest man in the room. He gave trv and the handing over of Greek war
his name without hesitation and added: supplies, is reported by Renter's Athens
i - -
Paris, Oct. 23. Germany is about to
expatriate 10.000 Italian civilians who
are unfit for military service and who
have been interned in Germany, accord
ing to new despatches from Rome. It is
.-. .... ! . , .. .. ... i. i ,. .1.
ri.Lu nit- minimi auiiiui hico iw a , , r, . . , , .
means of feeding the prisoners and will I"" ra,t V,r",11 n.p,cu-,y oer
end them home via Chiasco. Were. Washe.fI but ' """Ped to
(regain our holds. I must have been un
conscious half the time, for now I cant
remember distinguishing night, from day
while the storm went on and our raft
plunged with lis, never once in sight of a
ship that might rescue us until this
morning.
"Fir-t the coal passer was washed
away. Then hours later O-smann. to
tally exhausted, was mashed to his death.
How I managed to keep on the raft I do
not know."
The Colgate wa built in 1012. of
whaleback construction, 3.3O0 pros tons.
SOS feet long. 38 feet beam and 24 feet
deep. Mie was limy insured and was
RUMANIANS DRIVEN
BACK IN DOBRUDJA
Are Now Within Six Miles of Constanza
and Have Lost Many Guns
and Supplies.
Sofia. Sunday, via London Monday,
CVt. 23. The Rumanians have twen driv
en lack to within six miles of Con-tanza
nn the IVibrudia front, according to an
-official fctatetneoi from the war office, owned in Cleveland.
"If you please, gentlemen, 1 know per
fectly well what I have done. I shall
not resist arrest."
In reply to a question as to the reason
for his act he said at first:
"That I shall have to answer in court."
It was half an hour later that he ad
mitted he had been actuated by political
motives.
Physicians and high police and state
officials arrived within a few minutes.
but found that the premier was lifeless.
Xews of the assassination spread like
wildfire and was received with indigna
tion and sorrow.
The assassin, who is 32 years old, is a
son ot nr. ictor Adler, a Reichsrath
deputy and a Socialist of mild type. By
a coincidence the father was speaking
before the Reichsrath in 1911 when
Count Etuergkh was shot at six times
by the Dalmatian Socialist Vakusch. On
that occasion the count was uninjured.
STRIKE VIOLENCE
IN NEW YORK AGAIN
Sympathizers with Street Car Men Bom
barded Elevated Trains and Two
Passengers Were Injured.
orrespondent.
The Allien despatch, which is dated
Friday, says the demands were presented
to King Constantino by the French mili
tary attache. Greece is required to
transfer the entire milfitary force in
Thesaaly (in the rear of the allied forces
in Macedonia) to Morea (the -peninsula
forming the southern extremity of
Greece!. Delivery to the allies of war
materials destined for the Thessalinn
forces al-so is required. Other demands
were made, the nature of which is unknown.
X'ew York, Oct. 23. Strike activity in
the citv's transit situation was resumed
to-day when several Thir l avenue elevat
ed trains were bombarded wih stones
thrown from roof tops in the Harlem
district. Two passengers were injured.
Policemen were withdrawn from most
of the trains and surface cars several
TALK OF THE TOWN
Miss Jane McXulty of Chicago. 111., is
visiting Miss M. M. McKenna and other
friends in Barre.
Miss Maywood Robertson of Thomas
street has returned to the city after a
viit of several weeks with relatives in
Springfield, Mass., and other Massachu
setts cities.
Frank C. Williams of Xowport. state
examiner of savings banks, was a visitor
in the city Saturday and Sunday. He
was accompanied here bv Mrs. illiams
And One Death from Infantile Paralysis
in Vermont.
Burlington, Oct. 23. Frances Pearl
Webster, aged five years, and the daugh
ter of Mrs. B. Webster of 10Vi Xorth
Winooski avenue, has infantile paralysis.
It is the first case in Burlington this
year.
The mother first noted her child's ill
ness on Wednesday night, but she had
been out of doors with her all day and
Thursday morning the little girl's condi
tion was not so bad but that she was
taken out with her mother. Her condi
tion became worse while she was out
Thursday and it was necessary to take
her home in a cab. Dr. J. H. Dodds was
summoned. He found a slight limp in
the left leg and the child was put to
bed. On Friday evening Or. Dodds, who
suspected infantile paralysis, called Dr.
F. J. Funis, health officer, and Dr. F. W.
Sears in consultation. The paralysis had
become more deep seated. Both verified
his diagnosis and the case was reported
to Dr. C. F. Dalton Friday night as a
positive case of poliomyelitis. The tene
ment in the block where the mother and
daughter live was put under strict quarantine.
This is the 44th case of poliomyelitis
to appear in Vermont this year and only
the third case to appear in this county,
one having been found in Underbill and
another in Essex Center. Of the 44 cases
eight have proved fatal. This death rate
is"verv much less than in Xew York
state. ' Reports from that state give the
death rate as 25 per cent, while Ver
mont's death rate up to the present time
has been about 17 per cent.
One case was discovered in fair Haven
Saturday and another child who died m
Poultnev Saturday is also thought to
have died of infantile paralysis.
St. Johnsbury, Oct. 23. After colliding
with another car the auto owned and
driven by Albert Guver of St. Johns
bury tipped over the bank at the road
side about two miles below Joe's pond,
anded bottom up and pinned the four
men occupants underneath it, and only
one man was slightly injured. One man
was thrown clear of the car as it went
over. Among the men of the party in
the car were, Alfred Dcsrocher and E.
Toussant, also of St. Johnsbury.
Another car in which was Carl Ayles
and John Campbell of St. Johnsbury ar
rived soon after the accident and assist
ed in lifting the car enough to let the
men crawl out.
Mr. Guyer and party were returning
from Barre. and when in a narrow spot
in the road met a Montpelier cur owned
bv a Miss Kelley and driven by hep
chauffeur. Neither car turned quite far
enough and they struck a glancing blow,
the force of which threw the Guyer car
over the bank. The car turned bottom
up and although four were caught be
neath the body none was seriously hurt.
The mud was quite deep underneath the
car and it is thought it saved the men
from greater injury.
The party went to a nearby farm
house until they could find transporta
tion home.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Repeated blasts from the fire whistle
and Mrs. K A Hunt.
Miss Marie Mavo. who has been pass- 'at the glas plant and the clanging of the
ing a vactaion of 10 dav-s with relative bell in the tower at the lire station
in Boston and Xew York, returned to I around 10 o'clock this forenoon were
the citv vesterdav and resumed her du-(charged to the operations of linemen
tiesat lhdej Barre this morning. ! working on the fire alarm system. At
Two petitions in bankruptcy by Barre ;the firt blast regulars at the station
men have been tiled with Clerk F. S. j made ready for a run, but when the
Piatt of the United States court Jedd j toot ing continued at irregular intervals,
O. Beckhv. photographer, who has lia-jthe horses were unhooked and returned
bilities of"$l.20.S2 and assets of $1.0n0. to their stalls. A live wire on Park
and William Monran Hat.h. who has lia-Utreet came in contact with the alarm
days aL'o wlien strikers and sympathizers J bilities of $T'.5 and assets of 100, all system, according to the hremen. and
generally abandoned their campaign of exempt. J. Ward Carver is attorney f-T ' formed the circuit necessary to Sound the
violence. both nu-n. whistle.
Academy Played Hard Against Spauld
ing Despite 21 to 0 Score.
The St. Johnsbury Caledonian de
scribes Spaulding high's 21 to 0 vic
tory over St. Johnsbury academy on the
latter's campus Saturday atternoon as
follow:
"A large crowd on the campus Satur
day witnessed a fast game of football
between Spaulding high school of Barre
and St. Johnsbury academy, which re
sulted in a 21-0 victory for Spaulding.
The Granite citv boys were more skill
ful, but the excellent defense work of
the locals kept them from further scor
ing. Punting was a marked feature of
the game. Farnham was there every
time, punting 40 to ' yards each time.
"Capt. Lougee received the first kick-
off from Spaulding. With scarcely no
interference, he carried the ball some Vi
yards. For two down. St. Johnsbury
i i i. u.. .... -i, ti,;.
gaineu a .n y. o.. ..... ... - .....v. , . , . . , .
mAn a. f.imh a V ith : mn M Trt (Tfl On I T . " '
nuw. m.j.w.v - i 1 ia altoi-n.mn it. ha oil an nF Cfofa xrm
tne touriii .iovm. r, .... ,. .,. ' Mrs. Terea Malnati. charged with sell
marKaoie puny.. .... ...... infj li(,r illegally. A hearing was start
past tne mitii uei .mi-., i i.n.... o, nnu i,f., m;,., ir iv t- :.. :
J .. J .... 41,n,, HLfflnl l,n Sa tl !ri I n IT . . . V . . . ?
UWUIH-U " l.-.. ...... , ,,t -J,; f O .,!.,!-
threw themselves through the line three winiam AVishart rro3ect-
times, and on the fourth punted Bicker . Bm, R A Hoar tfce an(.e for
received the punt and quarterback rushed thp tl,.fn(llnt
the ball for a touch down. The score be- WaJtr m he ,2.vw.oM son f
came 14 to 0. when the goal was kicked. Mf Rm, Mrg jMmAo y, Rizzi of Co.
"With belter interference on the kick- m(w badly bitten by a rab-
off Ricker received and ran lo yards. bu d0, vmpr(,av and'so gerious wa9 the
Maiden was injured in tackling Parker ennfiifi,rpd tIiat a physician was
who had the ball for an end run. At .,,. T., ,,. tod ihP
this point Thompson was substituted for U(,.g ' ,. tPari mt a piPce of
Maiden, and Beatty tor Haiicy. An at- flogh Armando Comolli is said to be the
tempted forward pass failed, so that St. ownor of lhp canin- w.hirn hafl been eon-
J. was again forced to punt. It was a sjdeml A(H.io aml n,.v,.r gayage. All of
critical moment for St. Johnsbury, when the ,,. prw.,,utinnB were taken in
Wilkins received the punt andean down dressing the wound and it is thought
the field, dodging and using the stiff arm that n(J unUnvar(1 circumstances will fol-
so effectively. Great credit is due to j()w
Capt. lugee for stopping this whirlwind Circumstances surrounding the assault
from Barre. on ,j(,bn foHett in Depot square late Fri-
"On a fumble by Gordon. Spaulding d.(V tllt have served to revive the agi-
lost the ball. To the disappointment of .,;:,lntfnr hotter liL-htinc facilities in
the St. J. boys, the period now ended. ti,at neighborhood. A protest against
'St. Johnsbury kicked otf. Ashton got nrH-tiirnal conditions in the square wa
in speedily and tackled the man before registered with the city council some
he had carried the Iwll 10 yards. The months ago, but the petition for more
local boys were now playing t'leir very lights died a natural death in the bands
best so that Spaulding was forced to f the aldermanic lighting committee,
punt. ti,i a-sault on Collett and subsequent
"To begin the last period, Spaulding robbery wa committed on the M. 4 W.
made an incomplete forward pass. Wil- R. station platform, according to the po
lice, hut there was plenty ot darkness for
the dee 1 iiiot anywnere in the square
kins made a fine end run. which would
have resulted in a touchdown had he n.t
slipped on the wet grounds. Here they
were held on downs, due to .am:con
breaking up the plays by circling end.
l.u ker made l.i yard on an end run.
After several plays Farnham was en
liyed 15 yards for hurdling. H as St.
Johnsbury ' ball and tir.sl down when ti.e
time was up."
After eventide, the eqiiare is without il
lumination except tor the lambent flicker
emitted by th g company's lamps and
the reflection of light from Jack's lunch
r.H.m. The entral Vermont station is
dimly lighted, it is claimed, and on tha
nh.de "there is much to encourage foot
pads in the nighttime. -t
