" V
What to Wear
And How to Wear It?On the
Woman's Page Daily
Business Men
Rely on the Real Estate and
Court News in The T.-D.
C6th YEAR
VOLUME ?W
M:MUKit i:?T
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES.
Sr,61E,t ?UNSETTLED
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
So Long as Handful Is Left,
They Will Have Their
Gatherings.
PROPOSAL IS DISMISSED
WITH STORM OF PROTEST
South's Soldiers at Birmingham
Again Renew Allegiance
to Union.
pi.EDGE GOVERNMENT support
Men Who Fought for Confederacy
Given Warm Welcome in
Alabama City.
MINGHAM, ALA., May 16?There
15 * reunion of the old Confed
'lt*' "''idlers as long as there is a
r r'An'lfu' left to reunite. according to
"sntlment expressed at the opening
sslon of the twenty-sixth annual re
? mon of the United Confederate Vet
erans here to-day. The suggestion that
annual gatherings he discontinued
met with loud protests from the au
'J.ence which packed :he Rijou Theater
'?> suffocation
HK.VBW A I. LEG IA tli
TO MTAIIS A.\D STIt IFK.S
Before the speeches of welcome an<l
. %vere wt M launched. General
? Hooper, of Selma. Ala., com
mander of the Alabama Division of vet
eran* presented resolution* pledging
lh- o!d ?*l<ller.s ?.f lhe South to the
g '?ernment of the United States. Thev
v *r.i adopted by a rising vote, amid
e^enes of great enthusiasm, and a c opy
? 'riln?ferred to President Wilson
rhe resolutions were:
We, the I. tilted Confederate Vet
erans, in reunion assembled at Rirm.
InRham, do hereby again renew ar.d de
clare our unfaltering allegiance to the
government of th? I'nlted States in
this, ttr hour of great International
difficulties.
"W'c look "l? arms against the gov
ernment. not as rebels, but to protect
our homes and firesides, to preserve and
maintain the principle* of States'
rights, and, although the arbitrament
of arms was against us. we lust
neither courage. our manhood. nor our
jKatrlotlsm
?To-day the remnant of the armies
the Confederate States of America
does hereby offer ltaelf. its sons and
Its property upon the altar c.f a re
united country, which we love and se^k
t<? serve, protect and defend.
We recommend that everv man
? tlien over sixteen years of age re
siding in the t.'nited States and its ter
ritories be required to make immediate
report to the probate Judgo of his
county or other like ofih-er under
penalty of the law. and there swear
allegiance to this government, pledge
himself to loyally support the govern
ment against any ar.d all foes, whether
internal or foreign, that may attempt
to hinder, impede or destroy the rights,
property or liberty of its people."
General Hooper spoke In place 0f
(icneral John i.i. Smith, ho was ill
MO UK TIIA.V 4,(MM)
OLD SOI.IJI KM S AT DIWER
At the camp on the fHir grounds
more than LO'iO old soldiers were fed
j?t dinner to-day. The menu consisted
, "f roast beef and brown gravy, pota
toes. rice, break and coffee. At the
hospital only sixteen were reported on
the sick list
In the afternoon th? veterans and
visitors heard an address on "The Con
federate Soldier." by John T. Goolrlck,
and a musical program. A get
t'-gether occasion for the old soldiers
when, grouped under State banners,
they exchanged visits in Capitol Park,
was a feature of the first day.
To-night the annual oration of the
veterans by Irviti S. Cobb, the well
known writer; a banquet to the United
Daughters of the Confederacy by tho
local members and the first of the big
balls in compliment to the veterans.
sons, daughters, sponsors and mauls
occupied attention.
HAI.V BRIMiS COMFORT TO
VBTEHA,\S AND VISITORS
Heavy rain during the night had
made the temperature more comforta
ble for the veterans and visitors when
the first session was called to order
to-day. The l.WJou Theater, where the
meetings are being held, was packed
to suffocation when ft. \\\ Massey.
chairman of the local program com
mittee, rapped for order.
The "ylp-yip" of the old war cry
responded to the strains of "Dixie,"
"Old Mack Joe," "Suwanee River" and
other melodies of the South. A group
o; old soldiers of the Korrest Cavalry
singing old airs tso attracted con
siderable attention, and brought tears
to the eyes of many. When a lively
jig was played two old women of
seventy-odd years brought a cheer
when they called on two old soldiers
to Join them in a breakdown dance.
Addresses of welcome by city and
State officials and responses on behalf
of the visitors made up the morning
program, with the address of General j
rwnnett H. Young, commanding general
of veterans, the leading feature. The '
invocation was delivered by Rev. J. w.
Hacliman, of Chattanooga, Tenn., chap- i
Ifiln-gcneral of the organization.' Songs J
by United Confederate choirs also '
formed part of the program.
Tho report of the committee on cre
dentials showed there were nearly ftoo
camps In good standing, with J,760
votes represented in the convention.
It was stated that the annual decrease
in membership due to denth averaged
14 per cent.
YOUNG PAYS TRini'T*:
TO GLORY OF ALAI1AMA
In refpondlng to the welcomes. Gen
eral Young declared it ?ag unneces
sary for the city to go to so much
(Continued on Second Page.) j
He's for Preparedness
? ~ 1
Copyright, L'umlcrwood & Underwood. ;
Thorns* A. RiIUiid, of the >'avnl Ad- '
?iNory Ilonrd, marvhlnjt In the great
prepareilncxH pnrnde In Xew Vork on
Salunlny.
CHURCHES CALLED UPON
TO AID WAR SUFFERERS
It Is Proposed to Set Aside May 28
as Memorial Sunday in
Their Hehalf.
NKEI) GKKAT AND IMMEDIATE
Ajt|K*al Is Sent to 100,000 American
Ministers hy Federated Council of
Churches of Christ in America.
Millions Face Death by Starvation.
NEW YORK. May lf>.?An appeal to
make May 2* a memorial Sunday, when
funds would be raised for war sufferers
throuph collections taken in churches
throughout the country, was mailed to
100.00" American ministers to-day by ?
j the Federated Council of the Churches 1
jo! Christ in America..
j The purpose >>f the council is, not
I only to inaugurate nation-wide efforts
j to assist destitute and starving persons
in Kurope and Asia, hut to begin also
j "a movement that shall prepare our
c hristiun churchns to play the vital ,
part that belongs to them in the period |
of i ^construction and reconciliation;
that must follow the close of the war. !
Funds raised on May "S will be sent [
to i.ie treasurer of the international '
rel.ef committee, which may be desig- !
UHted among th>i various organizations !
lifted in the appeal. These include !
committees which are assisting people
in Belgium, Northern France, Sei^ia, ?
Poland, East Prussia. Armenia. Persia, ,
Syria. Turkey and Montenegro and in
the various prison camps in which
I some work is being done hy the Inter- 1
' national Young Men's Christian Asso- !
I ciatlon.
,'rnis crisis tii avmk.vds
evkx cuincii hulks;
The appeal points out that "some |
churches do not favor special appeals," i
but that a "crisis transcends all ordi- j
1 nary rules, and even church rules."
I The appeal is the fruit of "nine
thoughtful representative conferences ,
among church leaders and of a journey ,
by Rev. Charles S. MacFarland, gen
| ei al secretary of the council, during
which he interviewed many responsible I
men, both in Europe and America."
The co-operation of church federations,
ministerial associations, denominational
boards, religious Journals and kindred
: institutions will he sought, and the
' initial appeal will be followed up "so
i long as necessity may exist."
> The needs for funds are described in
the appeal as "immediate, appalling;
and increasing." Some of these are
classified as follows:
In TIelgium 3.000,000 persons are vir
tually destitute, and $5,000,000 is
needed at once.
in Northern France more, than 2.2D0,
j 000 persons are desperately in need,
t These include 175,000 children who are
' refugees. Tho distress is declared to
] be even more extensive than in Bel
i gium.
In Scrbi3 n.OOfi.OOO persons have been
I "deprived of their living and of a
j chance to make it," and there are thou
j sands of Serbians destitute in France. I
1POI.AM) HAS I I
HO ME Li ICSS PEASANTS !
In Poland there are 11,000.000 home-|
less, wandering peasants, mostly women j
and children, of whom 3.500.000 "are in i
a condition of starvation, with certain
death facing them unless relief comes
j speedily."
In East Prussia thousands have been
| driven from their homes and deprived
I of their livelihood, and the suffering is
! severe.
j In Armenia only relief given by
Americans, it is stated, will thwart the
destruction of a race. There are fiOO,
000 refugees In Armenia and 300,000 j
in Turkey.
"A $1 per member offering for this
ffreat cause would not seem an tin
| reasonable self-sacrifice," says the
, council's appeal, copies of which the
| ministers arc urged to place in the
hands of their church people, "yet su^h
; a total would mean incalculable help
land blessing to many innocent victims
of the war."
TO FORCE PAYMENT!
BY WEST VIRGINIA:
State Will Apply to United
States Supreme Court for Exe
cution of Judgment.
FORMAL NOTICE SERVED
Seeks to Levy on Public Property
to Collect $12,000,000 Due
This Commonwealth.
Proceeding on n new and final tack
to secure the settlement of the ?12,- '
393.929.50 Judgment rendered against
West Virginia In favor of this State
IaHt June, by the United States Supreme
Court, Attorney-General Pollard, by ;
deputy, yesterday served notice In
Charleston. W. Va.. upon Attorney
General A. A. Lilly, of that State, that
he will on June 5 apply to the Supreme
Court for a writ of execution directing
the marshal of that court to levy upon
the property of the State of West Vir
ginia for the satisfaction of the Judg
ment ^
A telegram received by the Attorney
General yesterday from Samuel W.
Bigger, who was detailed to serve the
notice, brought the information that !
?the papers have heeri served, and that
the Attorney-General of West Virginia
is now apprised of the drastic step
that hus been determined upon.
Mi ni noLiir scnnor.Mjs
METHOD OP I'noCEUl'RE !
If the Supreme Court grants the At
torney-General's motion and enters an
order directing a levy on West Vir
ginia's public property to satisfy its
Judgment, the marshal of that court
will be called upon to sell, in the man- ;
ner prescribed by law, enough of the
State's property to make good Vir
ginia s claim. Such a proceeding
would he without parallel in American
history, and would establish a new j
definition of the sovereignty relations
existing between the Federal govern
ment and the constituent States.
The whole proceeding js hedged
about with doubt. Constitutional au
thorities differ as to the power of the ?
Supreme Court to resort to actual levy
and aale of State property to compel
a compliance with its rulings. While
the Constitution makes the Supreme
Court the tribunal for the adjustment
of disputes between States, it nowhere
specifically describes the machinery for
enforcing Its decisions in the event
they are ignored.
COURT HAS POWER TO
ACT. ASSERTS 1'fll.LARD
In the opinion of Attorney-General
I ollard, it is absurd to assume that
the Supreme Court of the United States
has devoted months of hard work to
the consideration of this case merely
for the purpose of rendering an emptv !
decision.
"The question of the court's authority I
to enforce any order it may enter was '
raised nine years ago," said Mr Pol
lard yesterday. "Former United States i
Senator Spooner. then one of the coun
sel for West Virginia, demurred to the
petition of the State of Virginia, rajs- |
itig, among other objections, the point \
thai the Supreme Court is without '
jurisdiction, and could not enforce a !
judgment against West Virginia should ;
an adverse verdict be reached Chief '
Justice Fuller, dismissing the de- i
murrer, replied in effect that the Su- !
preme Court would find a way to en- '
force Its orders. j
"The Supreme Court is designated
by the Constitution to adjust disputes
between States. It is a court, and not
a board of arbitration The right to
adjudicate implies also the power to
enforce its Judgments. Without such
power, the Judgments of the Supreme
Court, would be empty and without ,
meaning."
TOTAL INDIFFERE.VCK
TO VIRGINIA'S CLAIM I
The decision to apply for a writ of
execution was reached a few davs ago i
at the end of a series of conferences
>n Philadelphia and Washington be
tween members of the Virginia Debt
Commission, Attorney-General Pollard
and Attorneys John G. Johnson and
Sanford Robinson, counsel for the
bondholders. '
It became clear to the Virginia au
thorities that West Virginia had en
tered upon a policy total .Indifference
to the claim, and that to expect that
State to take the initiative in bringing
about a satisfaction of the judgment
was futile. There followed the final
conferences of the last few days with
the decision to seek further relief at
the hands of the Supreme Court.
Although It has been almost a year
since the Supreme Court adjudged West
V u ginia to be indebted in the sum of I
more than $12,000,000 to the bond- '
holders represented by the State of
Virginia, the debtor State has taken
no steps looking to the satisfaction of
the Judgment. Its Legislature Ignored
the matter entirely, and its public men
have on numerous occasions expressed
their indifference to Virginias claim
In later weeks letters from the Vir
ginia authorities addressed to West
^ irginia officials in connection with the
debt controversy have not even been
accorded the courtesy of a reply.
JOIXT CO \ F ERE I* C E IM
XEVISIt CALLED TOfiETHER
With the Commonwealth's applica
tion for a writ of execution will be
filed the correspondence that has I
passed between Chairman H. H. Down
ing. of the Virginia Debt Commission
and Governor H. D. Hatfield, of West
Virginia. This covers a period from
October 19, 1915. until December 6
1916, and relates to the proposal of
the West Virginia commission that
another Joint conferonco be hold for
the purpose of discussing the Supreme
Court's Judgment. The conference was
ne^ ?r held. A letter addressed by Mr.
Downing to Governor Hatfield, on De
cember fi. 1915, asking for an earl'y
reply with Information as to the sug
gested conference, was never answered.
The result of the Aew petition to the
Supreme Courl will he watched with
(Continued on Secopd Page.)
Turkish Army in Mesopotamia
May Be Cut Off by Duke
Nicholas.
GERMAN AID IS TOO LATE
Austrians Overwhelm Italians in
Battle on Southern Tyrol
Line.
$
Progress for the Austrians against
the Italian? in Southern Tyrol and on
the lower Isonzo and a continua
tion of the Russian advance through
Kurdistan toward Mosul. the Russian
objective being the Bagdad railway,
are related in the latest official com
munications from Vienna and Petro
grad. In the other theaters there is j
much artillery fighting, but little
activity by the infantry.
The Austrians in the region south
and southeast of Trent, in Southern
Tyrol, are reported by Vienna to have
captured Italian trenches at several
points, taking prisoner 2,56.r> men,
among them sixty-five officers, and to
have captured seven guns and eleven
machine Buns. The entry of Austrians
into Italian trenches east of Monfal
>'on?. near the head of the Golf of
Trieste, and ihe capture here of addi
tional officers and men, also is recorded
by Vienna.
Petrograd reports that the Russian
force which reccntlv drove out the
Turks from the Rowandus region Is
continuing its progress westward to- ,
ward Mosul and the Tigris River region '
and drawing nearer to the Bagdad rail- j
way. To the northwest, around Diar- ,
bekr, the Turks attempted an attack i
on the. Russians, but were repulsed.
On the greater portion of the line
in Belgium and Franc the artillery
of both the Germans and the entente
allies continues active, being especially
vigorous in Belgium in the regions of
Dixmude and St. George and in France,
around the Avocourt wood, hill No. 30-1
and Le Mort Homme, northwest of
Verdun. The Germans have directed
another infantry attack against the
French positions on hill No. S54, for
the possession of which there has been
much sanguinary fighting, but the ma
neuver was again checked by the
French curtain of fire.
The Germans in the lake region be
tween Dvinsk and Vilna attacked and
occupied advanced Russian trenches
near Lake Dolje. The Russians, how
ever, in a counterattack, expelled the
invaders and drove them back to their
former positions. In the lower Strlpa
region of Galicia the Teutons
launched an attack against the Rus
sian trenches, but were repulsed.
POWERFl l, PRESSURE
TIIHOW.V OX TURKISH UK AII I
PETROGRAD, May 16.?With the ad-!
vance of Russians southward from the
Urumiah region toward Mosul, in
Assyria, on the Tigris, which resulted
recently in the occupation of Rowandus,
the Russians are now bringing fresh
pressure of the most powerful sort
upon the rear of the Turkish armies in
Mesopotamia. The hope is now enter
tained in T'etrograd of bringing, not
only Bagdad, the holy city of the
caliphs, but the entire historic coun
try lying between the Tigris and the
Euphrates under Russian dominion.
The only serious obstacle between the
Czar's army and Mosul is the ancient
fortified city of Jezireh-ihn-Omar, on an
island in the Tigris, 1 miles southeast j
of Diarbekr. It is believed that this i
city, with its antiquated defenses, will j
not be able long let delay the Russian
advance. The progress of these forces
already has broken the backbone of the
Turkish communications between Diar
bekr and Mosul.
Some 200 miles southward another
group of Russian forces, drawn up on
the Persian - Turkish border before
Khanlkln. is prepared to strike, through
to Bagdad.
The combined pressure from these
two directions upon the Turkish rear
has placed the entire Turkish army in
Mesopotamia.-estimated at between six
and seven divisions, in the greatest
jeopardy. According to the latest dis
patches, the Turks have been forced
to relax to a grent extent their re
sistance to the. British expeditionary
army and rush troops northward. Thus,
it is believed, the successes which have
been won by the Russians will soon
have an effect upon the fortunes of ihe
British campaign.
It I SSI AN ANNOUNCEMENT IIA \
VEIL IMPORTANT NEWS
LONDON, May 16.?The Russian an
nouncement that the advance on Mosul
continues, probably veils important
news. It is considered not unlikely
that the. Bagdad Railway, which runs
along the left bank of the Tigris, is
already cut.
j The Russian advance in this direc
tion has been swift and silent towards
an easy road which leads to Bagdad
or Nineveh, where the German Bag
dad Railway joins the Tigris.
Germany has hurried!> dispatched
forces, it is believed, to the Turkish
center at Erzlngan. to try to stem the
Russian advance, but apparently these
efforts have come too late
Al'STRIA.VS OVERWHELM
ITALIANS |N IIATTLE
BERLIN, May 16 < by wireless).?
Italian first-line positions in several
sectors have been captured by the Aus
trians. after concentrated artillery
preparation, it was announced to-day
in Vienna. The Austrians took more
than 2,500 prisoners, seven cannon and
eleven machine guns in these, opera
tions. The statement follows:
"Italian front: Southern Tyrol: Aus
tro-Hungarian troops, with the aid -of
an overwhelming artillery fire, cap
tured first-lino enemy positions on the
Armentara ridge. In the southern
Sugana Valley, on the Folgarino
plateau. In the northern Cagnola Val
ley. and south of Rovereto. In these
(Continued on Second Page.)
President Describes
| Troubles in Handling
European Situation
The Difficulty of Deciding
What to Do Kept Him
A wake Nights, He Tells
National Press Club.
WASHINGTON*, May 1 <5.?President
| Wilson to-night made public the frank
j and intimate review of his three years
U'n the White House, and his Impres
1 sions of foreign and domestic "prob
i loins, delivered confidentially last
; night to Washington correspondents
1 gathered at th?* National Press Club.
He spoke of thf difficulties of *he
presidency, and particularly of the
motives which have guided his han
dling of the European situation.
America, the President said, is for
peace because she loves peace and be
lleves the present war has carried the
nations engaged "so far that they can- j
not be held to ordinary standards of
responsibility." Rut, he added, the
L'nlted States has grown to be one of j
the great nations of the world, and
therefore must act "more <>r less from j
the point of view of the rest of the
world.
"If 1 cannot retain my moral in
fluence over a man except, by occasion
ally knocking hirn down," he said. "If
that is the only basis on which he will
I respect me. then for the sake of his
i soul I have got to occasionally knock
(him down."
I The President declared he had been j
kept awake nights considering the!
t European situation, because there j
might come a time when the United
States would have to do what it did j
not desire to do. and "the great burden ?
on my spirits has been that it has I
been tip to me to choose when that j
time came." He added that he did not
conceive that he had been elected
President to do as he pleased. "If I
were, it would have been very much
more Interesting," he said.
tilVKS HIS IMPRESSIONS
OF PUBLIC MKX
Impressions of public men as a class
were given frankly by the President,
with the comment that some grew and
some swelled. Ho also discussed the
relations of the newspapers to the
affairs of the nation, and sounded a j
warning that false information about i
i foreign affairs was more than likely
I to lead to trouble.
The President's remarks as onginal
I ly delivered were, read by him care
j fully before being made public, but
no Important portions were eliminated,
and the wording was not changed sub
stantially.
In beginning his speech, the Presi
dent made reference to his previous
visit to the club and to his statement
at that time that he felt constantly
a personal detachment from the presi
dency.
"I am constantly reminded as I go
about, as 1 do sometimes at the week- j
end," he said in that connection, "of!
the personal inconvenience of being'
President of the United States. If I \
want to know how many people live;
In a small town, all 1 have to do is to j
go there, and they at once line up to
be counted. I might, in a census-taking!
year, save the census-takers a great j
deal of trouble by asking them to ,
accompany m?- and count the people
on the spot. Sometimes, when I am ;
most beset. I seriously think of rent-j
ing a pair of whiskers or of doing |
something else that will furnish me
with an adequate disguise, because T
| am sorry to find that the cut of my
Jib is unmistakable, and that I must
1 fly under false colors if T am going to
sail incognito.
J "Yes. as I have matched my experi
j ence with my anticipations, T, of
| course, have been aware that I was
I taken by surprise hocause of the. prom!-j
S nence of many things to which I had ;
not looked forward." |
Tl'HN OF AHIKKI, OF FOHTPNK
iia iti) to Fir.nti: oi;t
When dealing with domestic affairs, i
he continued, we are dealing with j
things that to Americans are more or
less calculable, but when the fortunes
of the country arc subject to the "In-;
calculable winds of passion that are
blowing through the. other parts of the'
world'" there is no knowing what turn !
of the wheel of fortune may wrest!
control from the guiding hand.
"It makes no difference how deep!
the passion of the nation lies," said the j
President, "that passion may be so.
overborne by the rush of fortune in j
circumstances like those which now j
exist, that you feel the sort of?I had j
almost said resentment that a man !
feels when his own affairs are not j
within his own hands. You can '
imagine the strain upon the feelina
of any man who is trying to interpret
the. spirit of his country when he feels
that that spirit cannot have. Its own j
way beyond a certain point. And one i
of the greatest points of strain upon j
me. if 1 may be permitted to point it
out. was this:
"There are two reasons why the'
chief wish of America is for peace.
One is that they love peace and have
nothing to do with the present quar
rel: and the other is that they believe ;
the present quarrel has carried th.?se ]
engaged in it so far that they cannot '
be held to ordinary standards of re-j
sponslbility. and that, therefore, as
some men have expressed it to me.
since the rest of the world Is mad.
why should we not simply refuse to
have anything to do with the rest of
the world in the ordinary channels of
action? Why not let the storm pass,
and then, when it is all over, have the
reckonings?
PASSION OF AMRHICA
DRCIIH3DI.V FOH Pi; A IK
"Knowing that from both these two ,
points of view the passion of America j
was for peace. I was, nevertheless. ]
aware thai America is one of the na- :
Hons of the world, not only, but cna [
. of the chief tuitions of the world?a
nation that grow* more and more pow
! erful almost in spile of herself: that
! grows morally nmrc and mor^ tnfluen
I tial, fivpn when she is nxt aware of
I it; and that if she is to play the part
j which she covets, it Is necessary that
sh<? should act more or less from the
point of view of the rest of the world.
; "If 1 cannot retain my moral in
fluence over a man except l?y occas
j lonnlly knocking him down?if that is
the only basis upon which he will re
1 spect sue?for the sake of his soul 1
have pot occasionally to knock him
down. You know how we have road
in?Isn't It in Ralph Connor's stories
of Western life in Canada??that all
his successful sky pilots are ready for
a crisis at any time, and how the uPl
mate salvation of the souls of their
parishioners depends upon their using
their fists occasionally. If a man will
not listen to you quietly in a seat,
sit on his neck and make him listen.
Just as l have always maintained, par
ticularly In view of certain experiences )
of mine, that the shortest road to a
boy's moral sense Is throuurh his cuti
cle. There is a direct and. if I may !
be permitted the pun. a fundamental |
connection between the surface of his '
skin and his moral consciousness. You :
arrest his attention first in that way.!
and then get the moral lesson conveyed i
to hlm in milder ways, that i* he. were !
grown up, would be the only ways j
you would use.
.MUillT HAVE TO DO WHAT
\VK DID XOT WANT TO DO
"So 1 say that I have been aware ]
that in order to do the very thing we j
are proudest of the ability to do, there
might come a time when we would
have to do it in a way that we would
prefer not to do it: and the great bur
den on my spirits, gentlemen, has been
that it has been up to me to choose
when that time came. Can you Ima- j
gine a thing more calculated to keep
a man awake at nights than that? Me
cause, just because 1 did not feel that 1
I was the whole thing and was aware I
that my duty was a duty of interpre- ,
tat ion, how could I be sure that 1 had
the right elements of information by
which to interpret truly.
"The people of the United States are
not asking anybody's leave to do their
own thinking, and are not asking any- i
body to tip them off what they ought j
to think. They are thinking for them- |
selves, every man for himself; and you j
do not know, and, the worst of it is. |
since the responsibility is mine, 1 do 1
not know what they are thinking I
about. I have the most imperfect j
means of finding out, and yet f have i
got to act as if I knew. That Is the i
burden of It, and 1 tell you. gentle- j
men. it la a pretty serious burden, par
ticularly if you look upon tho office as i
1 do?that I am not put there to do j
what 1 please. If I were, it would have j
been very much more Interesting that
it has been. 1 am put here to interpret,
to register, to suggest, and, more than
that, and much greater than that, to be t
suggested to."
Referring to the difference in inter-;
preting the thought of America and in
dealing with foreign affairs the speak- ;
er told the newspapermen that was one i
reason he had urged them "not to j
know more than the State Department
knows about foreign affairs." Some
of them, he said, had a singular ?*ange
of omniscience, and be was constant
ly taken by surprise, in regard to de
cisions said to be his own. Continuing,
he said:
POINTS OIT dan<;i-:ks
CAISKIJ IIv lirCMAKKS .
"Now that is pretty dangerous, gen- ,
tlemen. because if happens that re
marks start fires. There Is tinder lying
everywhere, not only on the other side j
of the water, but on this side of the)
water and an American that spreads!
sparks may be made responsible a :
great deal worse than burning a town !
on the .Mexican border. Thoughts may
be invaders. Thoughts may he dis
turbers of international peace, and
when you reflect upon the importance
of this country keeping out of th>?
present war, you will know what tre- t
mendoiiH elements we all are dealing i
with. We are all in the same boat. If'
somebody does not keep the processes ?
of pace going, if somebody docs not !
k*ep their passions disengaged, by!
what impnitial judgment and sngges'- |
t'on is tb* world to be aided in a solu
tion when the whole thing is over? If'
you are in a conference in which you j
know nobody is disinterested, how ar?- \
you going to make a plan? I tell you 1
this, gentlemen, the onlv thing 'hat j
saves the world is the little handful of!
disinterested men ihat are in :t "
The President said he had found <!,s
inferested men and that he tied to'
them as to an anchor. Thev are men .
he said, who would give their lives for'
America, not cariru whether rrvbod- !
heard they had given their lives for u
willing to die in obscurity if onlv tliev i
might serve. " ' ?
>IKN TAKIXf; OI-'KICK t
KITH Kit (allow OH SWKI.I, |
"A friend of mine says that everv I
man who takes otllce in Washington
oil lu-r grows or swells." he continued.
In lighter vein, "and when i give a man 1
an otllce 1 watch him carefully to see
* I.ether he is swelling or growing.1
I he mischief of it is that when thev
swell they do not swell enough to'
burst. If they would only swell to the1
point where you might insert a pin and
let the gases out, it would be a great
nciitflit. But the men who grow, the i
men who think better a year after the\
are put in otllce than they thought
when they were put in otllce. are the I
balance wheel of the whole thing."
"I have come through the fir. since I
1 talked to you last." added the I're.-I- i
dent "Whether thu metal is purer
than it was. Mud only knows, but the
fire has been there, and tile has pene
trated every part of it. and If 1 n.a<
believe my own thoughts, I have less
partisan feeling, more Impatience of |
party nuineuxer. more enthusiasm for
the right thing, no matter whom it i
hurts, than I e\er had before in mv:
life."
Correspondents of papers that "have
not yet heard of modern times." ought, |
he said, to send them as many intlma- <
t Ions of modern movements as they are :
billing to print. I'o illustrate the need ?
for progress if only to keep abreast of
the times, Provident Wilson quoted an
ICnglish writer, who said that if you
want to keep a white post white you
could not let it alone because n would
get black. He riled the experience of
"Alice in Wonderland." who, with the i
(Continued on Second Page.) [
WILLING TO HAVE'
AMERICAN TROOPS
REMAIN IN MEXICO
Meanwhile Carranza Will
Endeavor to Prove Ability
to Control Situation.
i ________
i FINALLY IS CONVINCED
OF KINDLY INTENTIONS
First Chief No Longer Believes
Washington Is Bent on
Intervention.
TANGLE IS CLEARING AWAY
Scott Convinced That Border Trou
ble Has Become I.ess
Critical.
WASHINGTON". May 1H.?An optimis
'ttc view of the Mexican border sltua
? tion n-.is lalrt before President Wilson
; and his Cabinet to-day by Secretary
I of War Baker after a lone conference
i w ith Major-General Scott, chief of staff.
! General Carranza and his advisers now
understand the motives of the War r>?
; partment more fully than ever before,
[as a result of the conference at El Paso
[ between Generals Scott and Funston
and General Obregon. said Mr. Baker,
| and tension along the border has re
| laxed greatly.
I The secretary believes the whole sit
uation less acute than it has been at
any time since the raid on Columbus,
N. M.
OIIRKGOV K.XTKHS Cn\Fi:HENrR
WITH Mil H AIM'RBHKXSIO.V
General Obregon. it is learned, en
tered the conference with much appre
hension as to the real intention of Gen
eral Pershing'f swift march into Mex
ico in pursuit of Villa and his raiders.
To Mexican eyes, he said, it seemed as
if a great force armed with artillery
and all the impediments of war could
not be moving merely in pursuit of one
bandit chieftain and his handful of
followers. Undoubtedly. Obregon re
tlectcd fears felt in Mexico City that
j the expedition was in reality a step
j toward Intervention.
| The Mexican conferees were able to
convince the Mexican War Minister and
through hlni. General Carranza that Its
mission was only as described by Presi
dent Wilson?to disperse or capture the
bandits and return across the line. Tbo
striking accomplishment of Generals
Scott and Funston lay in the fact that
they succeeded In doing this wit*-?vt
making any pledges as to when Ameri
can troops would be recalled.
CIIAXfiK IX Ills VIRUS
IS CMOAUI.V !.\T>ICATRT>
The. change In General Obregon's
views was clearly indicated by prom
ises he made at the conclusion of the
conference?promises approved by Gen
eral Carranza, and which otllcial re
ports indicate he is now carrying out
with promptitude and vigor. 'These
pledges, interpreted as forming an un
written agreement, include the follow
ing:
That 1O.O00 picked troops, under Gen
eral Trevino, th? ablest of the Carranza
fielrj commanders, occupy and police the
territory about Parral. the southern
limit of General Pershing's drive, and
in other districts where there are no
American troops.
That an effective patrol be thrown
about the Mexican side of the E<ig Bend
region of the Texas border to head off
tjiei Glenn Springs and Koqtilllait
ra Iders.
That every effort be made to liberate
.lesse Peemer, the American storekeeper
captured and carried away by the
bandits.
That no troops will be removed
from the forces in I'onora ?tate through
Pulpit Pass to operate in the rear of
General Pershing's forces.
While General Scott clearly stated to
General Obregon that United States
troops would stay iu Mexico until Car
ranza forces bad fully demonstrated
their ability to handle the bandit sit
uation. assurances were given that
American troops would not operate in
parts where Oairanza forces were
active No attempts at co-operative
troop movements will he made unless
it be by arrangements of the local com
manders, American and Mexican.
OH 1)1011 S OK OltltKGO.t
( AimiKH Ol'T
General Scott said to-day that recent
reports of t.'arranza troop movements
in the region s^uth of General Pershing,
In his opinion, showed General Ob
regon's orders wero being carried out
promptly.
General Obregon was In eonslnrit
telegraphic communication with Gen
eral Carranza during the conference,
General Scott said, and there Is no
question but that the de facto govern
ment will attempt to show its ability
to control the hordei situation.
After the Cabinet meeting to-day it.
was announced that there was ri
change in the situation, and that the
question of possible Intervention wa?
not discussed by the President and his
advisers. It was further stated that
reports indicated that slow hut steady
progress was being made by the Car
ranza government in reconstructing the
revolut ion-stricken republic.
It was understood to-nigh* that nego
tiations with Mexico City might be ro
aumed some time to-morrow. F.liseo
Arredondo. Mexican ambassador-desig
nate, has not vet received Instructions
from his ehirf, which is taken to In
dicate that the rtrst chief intends to
await the outcome of r.ftairs on the
suggestion of General ?>bfifeffon that
American troops be allowed t > stay III
Mexico.
