NIGHT
EXTRA
icuenmg
'FINANCIAL EDITION
fteoger
NIGHT
i VOI.. H.-NO. 211
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1910.
CorimortT, 1010, bt the Fdblio Meat CouriKt.
PRICE ONE GEN
IAN FOR TRANSIT CARRIES,
140,345 TO 41,630; GENERAL
IMPROVEMENT BILL PASSES
asure to Raise $67,100,000 For High
fgpeed System and Port Develop
ment Wins by Overwhelming
Majority
ilv Four Wards Against Plans Majority for General
(ft Betterment 94,739 Taylor Praised for Victory
That Assures Realization of Comprehensive
Traction Projects Mayor Jubilant
TRANSIT AND TOUT LOAN VOTE
For' Aftulnat Majority
" 140,345 41,630 98,715
GENERAL IMPROVEMENT LOAN VOTE
KZt' TOT aUKullls' UlUJUIIVy
K t 1.1R.2R1 4:1.522 94.739
K? 'Totals for entire city from unoflkinl police returns give overwhelming
BoriUes to both loans.
K Transit wins again.
.. ai. nnrt inn nnn I !. 1 1. 1 UM1 1... --. ........
-Witn tno passage OI uc fof.iuu.uuu iruus.1. uuu puii, luun uui uy an uvti-
lminir majority yesterday the coterie of political obstructionists who have
n fighting the city's progress went down to defeat, and today Philadelphia
nils unalterably committed to the construction of the Taylor system of transit.
' By a vote of more than three to one the transit qnd the general improvement
, ... - jrr JOtt Ann ...a.... nnnrAirnfl yr inn vnfflra nml Pliilriflnlnbln trulnv
in Din oi 9ii,i.iuuu "' c.i.j.iu.u j ... ........... ...... .....-.., j
tared Upon a new era of municipal development and expansion. Tho victory
for the ?114,525,000 loan bills was acclaimed by former Director Taylor, and
Mayor Smith as tho beginning of a "Greater Philadelphia," with an aggressive
business policy and a definite plan of municipal progress.
' GIVE CREDIT TO TAYLOR.
'Credit for the transit victory was given unreservedly today to ex-Director
.faylor. The Mayor in a tormai Buuemem, puuuuiy uiuimiu mr. .luyuir ior nis
Wk and business organization leaders and all others who have taken part in
li. A- vnr fifht declared that victory was duo wholly to the magnificent
UQ ivui j ,.- --o m i.T
UBDaign of publicity carried on Dy me lur.ner iruiisn, ucparancni ncaa.
The transit loan was
defeated In only
gfcdf wards, ana in meso Dy inwu ""-
Kt. . .
'TOM were the 3d Ward, Select uouncu-
2n Hsrry J. Trainer's ward.
L'6ernth Ward, Select Councilman Charles
ISifW ward.
t Eighth Ward,, Senator Penrose a nome
IWtfi Ward. Senator McNlchol's home
reae
general Improvement loan was ae-
. . inm. unH' ah lour are
lA'fc'McNIchol' strongholds,- Wh'tre orders
M'knlfe" the loans were carried out w.ltn.
Ie( question.
B PULLBACKS' HARD FIQHT.
MuriNl-hnl was able to return a majority
ff only 1000 In his home ward, and the
kJ9rlty In Penrose's ward was less than
fMOO. Seger, who usuany puea up uis '"
Ij&jrltles against loans ho opposes, was able
IKi get only 100O against them, and Trainer's
ward, which usually gives a majority of
tfcfceut 2000 for what is ordered opposea
ifee Jpans by only 700. Clty Solicitor Con
ifilly. nth Ward leader, failed to carry his
Bin, ward against the loans.
LTne most surprising voie in inn euuru
Sty wis cast In tho 20th Ward, Republican
IcU Chairman David H. Lane's strong-
Efcola. Here the transit loan was -victorious
f by 't vote of 23S6 to 2351. As a traction
sitockholder Mr. Lane has consistently op-
llostd the Taylor plan and In the $6,000,000
iilectlon last year the 20th Ward, uy a vote
?jf 1343 for to 187G against, was the only
Lward In the city to give a majority against
tpla transit. The vote yesterday. It was
fcnerally -aid, meant the passing of Lane
u a leader. The gcneinl improvement diu
,H passed hero by a Vote or 3861 to 807.
t Ylctory for tho loan bills was heralded
throughout the city by the leaders as a
Victory for Philadelphia. The Mayor, who
received the returns In tho office of Director
Wilson, Issued a statement thanking former
Director Taylor for his part In the fight.
jCongressman Vare and Finance Committee
fChairman Joseph P. Caffney also Issued
BJUtementa expressing gratification at the
Cage of the loans. State Senator vare
ti a statement- this morning giving
leredlt to Mr. Taylor and to the Mayor for
th victory.
t.MEArS GREATER PHILADELPHIA.
: The Mayor said:
.'The result of tho rnmhlnrrt efforts of
fte newspapers, former Director Taylor,
we all-Phlladelphla Committee and the
Administration is shown In the returns and
men of Philadelphia wilt rejoice with
: !n the overwhelming success of our cam
Hi rn;
The people have put the mark of ap.
EY11 on the plans, on a greater Phlladc).
Er"v i osa who wputd have assassinated
., raovta cny nave Deen relegated to
Wi in-aroused citizenship. .Eyldence of the
IE- warrare waged by unscrup"Ious
ISC COWardlV nnllllcBl nilinin nt nrnvnii
S improvement Ja apparent, but it was
2 .Jpr ,he c"y nd themselves today
W JMjr have accomplished since the sign-
Ki declaration of Independence.
J. aeslre to express my sincere gratl.
ri,ni Ula PePl for the evidence of their
gonaence In my administration which, their
!mS of the loan blllp Indicated, and to
wure them of my earnest desire and In
3S t0 "" conduct the business of the
gjf Mt to Justify a continuance pf that
Htiiator Edwin H. Vare said:
X-DireCtOr TflVlnf nti.t (h. Uo Ar. nhnliM
E'ti'-'f "" cfedt tor the sweepifer victory
E,".1 J08"8- Penros4 and McNIchol, who
IS,?'11 boasting about what they would
uui. jniiuq a respectable snowing
VARES WIN OUT
IN CLOSE FIGHTS
FOR CONGRESS
Downtowners Also Win Con
trol of Legislative Dele-"
gation to Harrisburg
DAIX DEFEATS' CONNER
Continued on l'aie Sir, Column Five
THEWEATHJR
FOltECtA ST
WFor PhilnJ.lnhir. . .,;.:..:t.. ci.
Mr-fjjVtwutd cool tonight and Tht(rt'
WW i aimmUhina jiorthtueat winds.
r
XOST AMD POUND '
Sroifl'n !$ 5Sft.i'I'?n."" P4
tl 'XT' iE" n5ft.vjiVrr.S"' "'
0ljymir"1rwriJ. 1M Chrtatlan it
t XCrI-e'i i uW ur nackoleco. Jlon-
ir V" ": - f- r - .
Jl txAVvwi AJ,W M
CONGRESSIONAL NOMINEES
1st, District
W. S. Vare, It.
Homer H. Hacker, W.
Lawrence E. McCrossin, D. ,
2d District
George S. Graham, R., W.
Thomas E. Shea, D.
3d District
J. Hampton Moore, R.
A. L. Wcinstock, W.
Joseph Hagerty, D.
4th District
George W. Edmonds, R., W.
Patrick II. Lynch, D.
Sth District
Peter E. Costello, R W.
Michael Donohoe, D.
Gth District
George P. Darrow, R., W.
J. NYashlngton Logue, D.
The Varea defeated the Penrose-Mc-Nlchol
forces In the ward factional fights
yesterday. They renominated Congressman
George P. Darrow, In the Qermantown-West
Philadelphia District, gained absolute con
trol of the 'Republican City Committee and
nominated a ticket for the State Legisla
ture which puts them In control of the
Philadelphia delegation to Harrisburg.
AH Blx, of the Philadelphia Congressmen
were renominated. There was little oppo
sition to Vare, Graham, Moore and Ed
monds. The contest between Darrow and
John J. Covle.'who had the support of the
Penrose-McNIchol forces, was close.
Ex-Congressman Michael Donohoe, a
Democrat, polled a surprisingly heavy
vote on the Republican ticket against
Congressman Costello In the Frankford
district. He carried the 25th Ward over
Costello, 3268 to 474. Costello, however,
won the nomination by a vote of 7 to 1.
Donohoe easily won tho Democrats nom
ination. Donohoe had the support of
Penrose (n tho Republican primary.
The Vares and Mayor Smith were de
feated in the 6th Senatorial District, the
Mayor's home district. Augustus F. Dalx,
Jr., with the support of Penrose and Mc
NIchol, was renominated for lhe State Sen.
'ate after one of the most bitter factional
fights of the election over Patrick Conner,
the Vare-SmlthVandldate.
The Vares claim, to have gained cbntrol
in the h. 18th. 23d, 2?th. 32d, 42d and 43d
Wards. They did not lose any that they
crevlously controlled.
County Commissioner Robert J Moore
was defeated In the 4 th Ward by the Vares.
State Senator Samuel W. Salus led the fight
for the Vares in the downtown ward.
Both factions claim victories in the 18th
and 23d Wards. Senator Vare, however,
insisted tha,t his followers controlled a
majority of the ward committees, notwith
standing the fact that the Penrose-Mc
Nlchol forces carried the two wards for the
Penrose State ticket. . ,.,.,,
John tlrdln led the fight for the Vares
In the 18th. James Dorney, City Commit
teeman, and Robert drier are the Penrose
McNIchol leaders In the ward
BITTER FIQIJT IN 23D.
In the !?A William McKlnley and State
Representative James A. punn led the fight
for the Vares to .oVerthrpw David T Hart
Is wird leader The fight in the 33d almost
"ulud that in th.4th Ward, and the
CsattaiJa w PMSaWt Ctlwoa Sw
TAYLOR POINTS OUT VICTORY FOR
. TRANSIT MEANS BUSINESS BOOM
r ' 1
IK &
Yesterday's election has committed
Philadelphia Irrevocably to an ng
grcsstvo business policy and to n
definite plan of municipal develop
ment. The city will gain great and ex
ceptional advantages resultant there
from. These advantages should be widely
advertised throughout the entire coun
try. Far - sighted bualness men and
others will quickly recognize nnd seize
the opportunity to share in the in
evitable expansion of business, of
commerce, and of realty values.
Wo should appreciate tho splendid
fight which the great Philadelphia
newspapers have made for tho com
fort and convenience of tho people
nnd for the proper development of this
city along broad-gauge lines; wo must
urge them to keep up n relentless fight
for the business nnd commercial su
premacy of Greater Philadelphia.
V-
PENROSE SLATE
CARRIES STATE;
SNYDER WINS
Interior Counties Overcome
Ambler's Small Majority
in Philadelphia
NEARLY EVEN SPLIT HERE
Presidential Vote Summary
by Unofficial Returns
Rep. Dcm. Total
Brumbaugh ... 68837 68837
Wilson 15155 15155
Ford 3314 41 3355
Roosevelt 2036 2036
Hughes 509 509
Charlie Chaplin 1
Tho Ponroso Organization carried the
State In tho contest between the two war
ring factions 6f the Republican party yes
terday. Penrose won a majority of the
delegates to the Republican National Con
vention" throughout tho State, and appar
ently has elected nil but one or two of his
slate for delegates-nt-large. '
Charles A. Snyder has been nominated
for Auditor General with a substantial
majority. The Penrose candidates for
Congrcssmen-at-Lnrgo were nominated.
There were contests for only two of tho
four places on the Congress-at-Large ticket,
tho Penrose forces backing Isador Sobel
and Josoph McLaughlin against Daniel F.
Lafean and John R. 'IC Scott.
With BO scattering divisions missing the
results In Philadelphia were:
AUMTOIt GENERAL
Ambler 78,847
Continued on l'aie Tno. Column Two
HUGE AUSTRIAN
GUNS BATTER
ITALIAN LINES
Long - Expected Offensive
Finds General Cadorna
Well Prepared
GERMAN METHOD ADOPTED
ROME, via Tnrls, May 17.
German methods woro adopted by the
Austro-IIungarlnns In their counter offen
sive, which Is now under way over the
greater part of the front. Bombardments
of the most Intense character nro being di
rected against the Italian positions In nn
effort to level the trenches before the In
fantry Is sent forward.
Austrian nlrmen are active all along
tho front, and raids have been carried out
behind tho Italian lines In un effort to
destroy -railway communications nnd dam
age cantonments, but these have had little
or no success. g ? .-,
GIGANTIC GUNS IN ACTION.
Guns of glgariTTc callbro, which tho Aus
trlans havo mounted on the Lavarone Pla
teau, threw shells upon Italian positions
at Aslago, 12 miles away.
On the Ispnzo' front the Austrlans have
delivered a series of strong attacks in the
sector of Monfnlcone, but suffered heavy
losses.
The excellent nlr service of tho Itnllnns
kept Lieutenant General Cadorna fully
posted as to the shifts of Austro-Hungnrlnn
troops, with tho result that the Italian
troops were massed at points where it was
known that attacks would be mude.
Attacking columns of tho Teutons were
thus caught under the combined Are of ar
tillery nnd mnchlne guns and suffered huge
casualties. At some places they were able
to occupy positions which the Italians hnd
Continued on race Six, Column One
HUGHES AND FAIRBANKS
FAVORED BY OLD GUiRD
AS REPUBLICAN CHOICE
Progressives of Party May Write
Platform if They Agree to
Accept Justice and
Indiana Man
HAIL PENROSE VICTORY
Old Guard Leaders
Favor These Men
For President Charles E. Hughes.
For Vice President Charles W.
Fairbanks.
WASHINGTON. May 17. The Progres
sive element in the Republican party can
have things pretty much Its own way when
the time comes to write tho Republican
platform at next month's National Con
vention, according to the plans of Old
Guard Republican leaders that have de
veloped In Washington. Rut the Old
Guard leaders preface the promise to the
Progressives with a large and Imposing
rU"
An effort will be made by supporters of
such candidates as Supreme Court Justice
Hughes and former Senator Ellhu Root to
trade the national platform to the pro
gressives In return for support for the
nomination.
The Old Ouard leaders hope that If they
can satisfy the Progressives with a real
Progressive platform, they can reconcile
the radical wing of the party to Root or
Hughes as the' head of the ticket And
the Old Guard cares .Very little about plat
forms but very much about candidates.
Washington political dopesters today
framed a slate which looks as good as atpr
In, the tangled Republican situation. They
propose:
For President Charles Evans Hughes.
For "Vice President Charles Warren
Fairbanks, of Indiana.
With this ticket the Old Guard would be
more than willing to let the Progressives
write the platform. Only the wildest rad
ical Ideas would be barred from the decla.
ration of faith.
It Is believed that Fairbanks In second
place would add considerable strength to
the ticket, and would help carry Indiana,
where the Republicans are making a fight
for two Senate seats and the Hquse delega
tion. The apparent victory of Senator Penrose
In the Pennsylvania primaries wm greeted
with Joy by the old guard leaders here.
They felt confident that the Penrose dele
.. .,,. r nnlnatruoted. will be avail-
I abla 'for almost any duty that the orssil-
xaUoa may demand at Chlcago,-
h
SPY. THEORY IN DEATH
OF FORMER AUSTRIAN
v SOLDIER DISCOUNTED
Statements of Landlady and Em
ployers of Foreigner Here
Give Little Basis for
Suspicion
NO PROBE IN PROGRESS
Investigation today Into the affairs of
Alexander Debreczenl, a former soldier of
the Austro-IIungarlan army, who was
drowned In the Delaware while canoeing
near Cormvclls on Saturday night, Bhows
little basis for the suspicion that he was
a spy.
Special Chief Agont Todd Daniels, of the
Department of Justice, denied that he was
making any Investigation of Debrecenl's
affairs.
The fact hat a number of blue prints
were found In Debreczenl's room at his
home. In Cornualls, and the quick demand
by Ernest von Peterffy, tho Austro-Hun-garlan
consul, led the authorities to be
lieve that Debreczenl was connected with
some spying mission In the United States.
This suspicion was strengthened by a nunv
ber of letters said to have been found In
his rooms.
Lltle credence was placed In this report
by Mrs. Mary Klnnler, of 1832 Green street.
at whose home Debreczenl boarder for somu
time. KShe said that he blue nrlnts found
in the dead man's room were plans for gas
fixtures. tie was employed by Schutte
and Koertlng, engineers and machinists, of
l?th and Thompson streets, and was con
stantly experimenting In his work.
WAS TO WED NEXT MONTH.
Debreczenl, according: to Mrs. Klnnler.
was open In his manner, and had arranged
V have his wedding from the Klnnler home
next month, when, he expected to marry
Ilonka Behare, who was to pome here from
Budapest- Regarding the hasty action of
the consul In demanding the dead man's
erfectB, Mrs. Klnnler said that this was
due to a suggestion which she had made.
"I realized that Mr- Debreczenl had no
relatives In this country," she said, "and I
thought It well that his effects should be
protected under the circumstances. I noti
fied the consul to get his things. He could
not have done any spying work, because
hla hours of employment were long and he
spent most of his nights quietly at home.
A. report that Debreczenl had once been
arrested In Charleston, S. C, on suspicion,
by the Federal authorities, was doubted by
Mrs. Klnnler, who Bald. he had never been
In that place. "It he were a spy,' she said,
"I would be glad to give any Information
I knew, as we are French and, of course.
In sympathy with the Allies."
Debreczenl went tq board at the Klnnler
QUICK NEWS
U. S. TROOPERS KILL. 6 MEXICAN BANDITS, CAPTURE 70
MARATHON, Tex., May 17. Six Mexican bandits are reported
to have been killed and 70 ore captured by Aerlcan cavalrymen under
Colonel Sibley and Major tanghome on Monday. The clash is report
ed to have occurred near Lnguna Del Fresno, 105 miles south of the
Rio Grande,
AMERICAN KILLED ON WRECKED DUTCH SHIP
LONDON, May 17. An American citizen named Lulgi Mnnchino
was killed when the Dutch steamship Datavler V. was blown up on
Tuesday, It was announced today by the American Embassy. Thete
were at least two other Americans on board but they were saved. They
were Samuel Howard Comstock and John Joseph Paleta.
COLD WEATHER KEEPS PHILLIES IDLE
PITTSBURGH, Pa., May 17. Cold weather caused the postpone
ment of tho game scheduled between the Phillies nnd the Pirates for
this afternoon. Morati and his champions arrived here this morning,
but the rafns of yesterday had Forbes Field in bad condition and the
arctjo weather that prevailed forced the management to call off the
contcs.
PIMLICO RACING RESULTS
First race, 2-year-ods, selling, 411-2 furlongs Yellow Sally, 107,
Anderson, $-1.40, $3.00 and $2.80, won; Tarves, 105, Ball, $8.70 and
$4.10 second; Almce T., 102, Schuttinger, $3.20, third. Time, :5G l-C-Bon
Otis Bcndlct, Burbank, Doc Meals and Lautaua also ran.
P. R.T. CARMEN
PLAN STRIKE IN
WAGE DEMANDS
Meeting Called Tonight to
Prepare for Schedule in
Impending Fight
SHORTER HOURS ASKED
"We Are Going to Get Justice,"
Declares Labor'Leader Com
pany Is Silent
MORE THAN 37,000 TURKS CAPTURED BY RUSSIANS
l'KTUOGRAD, May 17. More thun 37,000 Turkish troops have been captured by
tho advancing foices of Grand Duke Nicholas In Asia Minor during tho lust thrco
weeks. The Russians have also captured vast quantities of munitions which had
been sent from German factories and conveyed to the Ottoman front by prodigious
efforts.
PNEUMATIC TUBE SERVICE IN CITY TO STAY
Tlin nnfiifmnilr. tnbn, Jinrvlee in Philadelphia will be continued for another year
ns a. result ,at p. .dclslom reached by the-Senate Committee on Postofllces nnd Post
Roads today. Dispatches from Washington say that J976.000 Is to bo carried In
tho postofllcq appropriation' bill for tho pndumatlc Hubo service In the New York,
Boston, Philadelphia," Chicago nnd Jjt. Louis) of which Philadelphia Is 'to receive
?1 62,607. The committee also took stops to rid Itself of the railway mail pay quarrel
botwecn the inllroads and tho Postofflco Department by referring the question of
"apace and weight" basis to the Interstate Commcrco Commission.
PENNSYLVANIANS RESERVE ROOMS AT ST. LOUIS
ST LOUIS, May 17. Sixty npnrtments In tho now Plaza Hotel wero reserved
today for Pennsylvania's delegation to the Democratic National Convention.
BRANDEIS VOTE IN COMMITTEE NEXT WEDNESDAY
WASHINGTON, May 17. The Senate Judiciary Committee today decided to voto
next Wednesday on Its report on the President's appointment ot Louis D. Brandels
to be an Associate Justice of tho Supremo Court.
BLAST WRECKS GEORGIA PLANT AIDING DU PONTS
ATLANTA. Ga., May 17. A terilllc explosion this morning destroyed the plant
of the Georgia Fibre Company here. Tho plant was engaged In bleaching cotton
Hntqrs for the du Pont Powder Company for manufacture Into guncotton. The causa
of the explosion Is unknown. No one was killed.
NORWEGIAN FOURTH OF JULY CELEBRATED HERE
Today Is tho Norwegian Fourth of July-rtho 101st anniversary of tho adoption
of tho Norwegian Constitution, which sepaiated Norway from Denmark, In all sec
tions of the city Norwegians are celebrating the day. All the Norwegian vessels In
port are gaily decked with (lags and the sailors are enjoying a holiday.
Contlamdoa Pm bit. Csliuaa v
THREE AMERICANS ON CANADIAN SHIP SUNK BY MINE
WASHINGTON, May 17. Three Americans wero aboard the Canadian steam
ship Eritrea, which has been sunk, according to a cablegram from the United States
Consul nt La Rochclle, France, today. While Lloyds yesterdny reported tho steam
ship torpedoed, the Consul said she was sunk Friday, "presumably by a mine," and
that no member of her crew was Injured.
BIG ORDER FOR LUMBER FOR MOTOR SPEEDWAY
The Philadelphia Motor Speedway Association has Just placed what Is probably
the largest single order for lumber ever placed by any Philadelphia concern. It
Is for 1,700,000 feet of longleaf southern pine, which will be used In tho construc
tion of tho association's speedway nt Willow Grove. It Is enough lumber to build a
boardwalk from hero to Atlantic City. Tho order culls for immediate delivery, for
such care has to b taken In building a track capable of carrying automobiles
which mako two miles a mtnuto that the management decided to start tho con
struction right away,
MME. BERNHARDT REGAINS CITIZENSHIP IN FRANCE
FARJS, May 17. Sarah Bernhardt, who, as a result of her marriage with
Jacques Damala, a Greek member of her company, in 1882, became a Greek subject,
has resumed her French nationality by special decree of President Polncare. Damala
died in 1889.
PANAMA CANAL GUARDED; DYNAMITERS FEARED
PANAMA, May 17. The canal authorities aro taking especial precautions to
safeguard the canal locks, owing to rumors that attempts might bo made to dyna
mite them. The American steamship San Itamon, bound from San Francisco and
Mazatlan, Mex., for New York, was searched prior to passing through the waterway.
All of her crew were Americans. . The vessel carried a cargo of dyewood. She
arrived at Cristobal yesterday,
CHATEAU FRONTENAC, QUEBEC, DAMAGED BY FIRE
QUEBEC, Que.. May 17. Tha famous Chateau Frontenac hotel was threatened
With destruction by Are during Monday night. Flames were discovered under the
copper roof of the kitchen section. Firemen fought the blaze until 7 o'clock In tho
morning and, prevented It from spreading to the guests' apartments. The loss is
estimated at $25,000.- ,
$2,500,000 FOR EPISCOPAL CLERGY PENSION
Pledges have been received for J2.500.009. one-halt the J5.000.000 which must be
In hand as a reserve fund to start the plan to pension the. retiring clergy of the
Protestant Episcopal Church. The campaign to raise this money constitutes the
largest single enterprise ever undertaken by the Episcopal Church. Jt was formally
Started on March 1. and It will continue for one year. It Is expected that on March
I 1917. the full reserve fund will have been subscribed, and tho plan will then be
1-ut Into effect- Some 713 clergymen will then b eligible for lmmeaiate retirement.
The plan contemplates that each of the 58QQ clergy Jn the church will be eligible
for retirement at J years ot axe upon a minimum annuity of 1690 a year,
a
I
A demand for 36 cents an hour, full
recognition of their union and abolition of
the so called "swing" runs will be made
tomorrow on tho Phlaldclphla Rapid Tran
sit Company by the Philadelphia Branch
of tho Amalgamated Association of Car
Workers of America.
In the event of tho company's failure or
refusal to treat with tho .ien, tho latter
declare, 1000 motormen ani conductors now
In the employ of tho Transit Company will
stop work forthwith. This announcement
was made today by Harry F. Flynn, presi
dent of tho Philadelphia Branch of th
Amalgamated Association.
A meeting of tho carmen will bo held to
night at tho local headquarters of the asso
ciation, 232 North 0th street. It will open
nt 8:30 o'clock and continue all night until
8:30 o'clock tomorrow morning. Thus, all
crews nnd shifts will havo an opportunity
to attend and voice their views. A com
mittee will be nppolntcd nt tho meeting to
call upon Thomas E. Mltton, president of
tho Philadelphia Transit Company, and lay
before him the demands of the men.
COMPANY SILENT.
I.1-... rttA,i nf ihn T Tt. n Com-
pany. was nt tho executive ofllces of the
......,.,.,,. inrinv Tfn (mid he had "no com-
mont to make on tho statement of Harry
ftp., Flynn." .
ti In Miitllnn ttin f-HAVnnCf.fi Of lllm
self and his associates, said:
"Wo are going to get Justice from the
Phlldaelphla Rapid Transit Company or
wo will stop every car In Philadelphia, We
mean business nnd wo will be able to en
force our demands because we are stronger
now than wo havo been for several years.
"The conductors In Philadelphia are tak
ing In $10 more n day than the conductors
In Chicago, yet the conductors In Chicago
receive 36 cents an hour on a straight live
cent fare basis. In Cleveland on a 3-cent
fare the motormen nnd conductors start at
32 ccntB nnd Increase to 3B cents after two
years' service.
WANT BETTER RUNS.
"We want straight runs. We are not
going to have our men work 16 hours to
complete a nine-hour workday. "".?,''
the present system of swing runs, Phila
delphia carmen start work at 6 a. m.( maKO
thrce runs, thcn'lny oft for .three hours,
thon go to work again, rcroalnlPR n Wy
until 8 or ,c,oclt at nlgM'. Unr th,2
Hystcm they see little of their families,, ana
get llttlo opportunity for homo life.
itVe will demand 35 cents an hour. W
will demand the abolishment of the so
called Mitten Co-oporntlve Plan. This Ms
proved a farce, and has been harmful to
the carmen of Philadelphia. The Grlevahco
Committee, under the co-operatlva plan,
renders decisions always In favor of the
company. Under the Mitten Bystemjjne
force of carmen has been cut down dffRng
tho last five years' from 7200 and 0200.
SCORN SMALL INCREASE.
"A few weeks ago we were granted an
Increase of ono cent an hour, making a
maximum of 31 cents. This so-called In
crease was a Job, because the company fol
lowed It up by chopping oft a minute from
the running time and a mtn ute from our
luy-qyers. thus Increasing the speedlng-uP
nystem of the company.
"The public has suffered as badly In this
mnttcr as tho carmen. The Mitten system
has brought the crowded car evil upon Phil
adelphia." ,
Speakers expected to address the mass
meeting tonight Include members of the
Organization Committee of the Central
Labor Union. Edward Keenan. president of
tho Central Labor Union; Joseph M.
Ritchie, organizer of the, American Federa
tion of Labor; John Thomns, president of
tho Textile Council ; Harry C. Parker, man
ager of tha Allied Trades Council; John
A. Phillips, recording secretary of the Cen
tral Labor ' Union ; Alexander Magulre.
business agent of the Taxi Drivers' Union:
Thomas Bell, vice president of the Central
Union, nnd William B. Fitzgerald, of the
International Executive Board, American
Federation of Labor.
Trouble has been brewing among tha
carmen for some time. It is said that th
recently announced large Increase In tha
surplus of the company prompted the de
mand for higher wages.
INCREASES GRANTED.
On May 1 last the Philadelphia Rapid
Transit Company, through Its Co-operative
Committee, put Into operation an Increase
in wages of one cent an hour to all mptor
monand conductors. This move, which af
fected about 6200 men. was announced
April 20, coincident wtth activity ot the
Carmen's Union, which sent out letters sev
eral weeks previous urging conductors and
motormen to organize preparatory to votlnj?
down the co-operative plan and seeking a
higher schedule of wages through the pre
sure of organized labor.
When tho Stotesburg management tooK
hold of tho company the maximum wag
was 2J cents an hour. Apprentices now
start at 26 cents, the rate gradually at
taining Us 31 cents maximum at the, end
of five years. The increase la provided out
of the "22 per cent, fund," which consists
of 22 cents out of every dollar taken In
fares, and is laid aside to provide higher
wages, benefits nnd pensions for the men.
Seventy-five per cent, of Its carmen, the
company's statements Bhow, or more than
3500, receive the 31ent rate, and In a
few months an additional five per cent- will
share It. Indicating the general satlsfac.
tlon of tho men under the co-operative Phuu.
the records Bhow that In the five years up to
1911. when the plan was put Into ecect. an
average of 369 men per month either were
discharged or left the service. In tha last
five years this average, has fallen to 83
men per month.
In May, 1909, Jrecedlng the six-day strike
which ended June 4. of that year, a raise
from 21 to 23 cents an hour, beginning July
t .....a mnAH ThlEf WAR flllA Of th& rCSUltS
sit popular protest against the management
at inai imw. dukv " -.w.ft,vj-f...$.
control of the property the adoption of tha
co-operative plan ijnd other measures hava
added to the wage scale.
Of tho 6pQ0 men voting upon tha continue
ance ot the pUn yearly, the necessary ma
jority to effect Its overthrow has paver bean
obtained. In July, 191 J, tha votes stood.
4320 for to 20p8 against, and while thU
favorable majority was somewhat reduca4
last July, tha plan found endorsement from
more than one-half of thosa affected by Ita
prov 13.0118.
Tha call for a meeting ot the trolleymaa.
was issued yeaterflay by tha committee at
the central Labor Union, which for tAMty
months has bent avery-effort tKect no qf
Aa.tkji.Usa at tin P. K. T. gRaftaia.
J
s -
