Stilt
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Rain to-day, with easterly gales ; to-morrow,
fair.
Highest temperature yesterday, 57; lowest, 44.
Dotalled weather, mall and m.itinc reports on page til.
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 2G0.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1916. Copvrlght, 101C. by the Sun Printing and PublUMng A$oclatlon.
BORDER POLICY
WILL STAND ON
SCOTT'SADVICE
Cabinet. Impressed by the
General's Report of Understanding.
(JKX. I'EHSHIXG MOVES
KR03E SAX ANTONIO
President Wilson and his Cabinet de
cided jrstenl.iy that there would bo no
change In the Mexican policy -at pres
ent with respect to tho liorder situa
tion. line stroll rpunrlKil that- nlttinnc.1i nn
sgrcemeni was signc.i nr. ins comer- ,
nice with On. Obregon, they had a j
tacit understanding on tho protection
of the border from b.mdlta.
Arizona li.au nppcale-d to Senator
Ahur.t to send troops to guard 200
mues of the State's liorder, where
: jOO residents tire said to bo In peril,
American troops havo
I
advanced
north from San Antonio, Mexico, and
Camilla troops have taken their
place.
TO WORK IN HARMONY
DRIVING OUT BANDITS
Urn. Sent! lit rrn iialatna Will
Mil Anicrlrilli".
Wasiiinuto.n, May 10. Exceedingly
op mistlc reports brought back fiuni the
bonier by tici'. Scott led the Cabinet
to-day to decide that there would be
tn i-hange of jiolicy at present with rt-i-pec:
to opetatlnns of the troops in Mex
uo and along the border. !en. Scott
tus lontlrmed the impreshiou of olllclala
hre that while thu former's conferences
with lien, uuiigou did not tcsult In any
formal agreement, there exists an un
written unilcrhtondlng between tho two
men that, pending a demonstration b
liie Carr-anz.i forces of their ability to
titan up the bandits In northern Me.lco, i
tlie Carralizlstus nie to work In liar
mod with tlie commanders of the two
.Viare an punitive expeditions.
lieu. Scott lepurted that ill seeking to
im-iits-. lien. Obrigou with the fact tint
i.,e I lilted .Slatet, has nu other purpoM'
in it'jrtiiern Mexico than to stamp out
mo -irlgandagt! and safeguard Its own
territory, ho likewise convinced thu Mox
kati Minister of War that the American
lui vit would not bo U'ttlidiaw.i until tho
lamltis an' exterminated.
t' -numcd for his own part that !en.
0'jrer' m Is acting ill good faith. Cell.
ii i-viueed the opinion io-u.is nun
the situation Is decidedly moic favorable,
than It lias been at
lllj nine siltvis u: ,
Colurn.iu; raid.
lo.iioo Iii liunril lllu llruil.
liei Ubregun. Scott says. gau ordeiu ,
l jie l.-avlng Ju.n eis to tleii. Trevlno.
ake tlie field In the districts mound 1
al unit (.mill of the lllg lU'iid sec-
if Teiiui with 10.U0U of the most
u a' le Carranzlstii troops to prosecute a
. t is campaign against tho bandits,
lie! Scolt added that the Mexican
.. M n ster bad specillcally directed
u T eMiiu to make eveiy effolt to 111
P -pi tie bandits who raided tllenn
! n .'s and H'nUill.es and to release. If
I -'I , .1 Deeim-r, the American store--
v.- wlmm the baiulltB cupluicd at
lr'l i' IS
1" iler to prevent cl&shes oecurrliw
I-'Him tin. Mexican and American
fn iicn. t'cott said. It was agreed
I'.it tin- foices (.liould not operate at
l Irin in tile him'4 localities.
Si ott tegardti as further evidence
M nn obregiinH good faith tlie fact;
' a' i le la'ler has halted all movements
ef v 1 1 i'iux i troops from the State of,
h'lti ,i ttiruugii IHilpit Pass into the re- ,
B' m ! ' 'IiititiotiiirV, noitli of (leu. Pensh-
i us I . Possibility that these troops
n ' m 1, tn cut lien. Pershing's line of
' in in, I mons ha been a matter of '
ff rii i army offlccm hem and on,
bmler '
'" S.utt reirted that he had a-
-hi ijen obregon that th" American
r '' rointimiders for their i.irt
id l.i eerythlng tKisslble in the
i'i pimi of their foir-i's to prevent em
t'.i so.eniM to the I'arrnnza nutli-irl- 1
tlis i nil uimlil ulin ulrom-tlieii the lior.
,l"' -'in I as murh as tiosslble to prevent !
m n trom the Mexican tide.
llelleves
lllll llruil.
is saol that Gen. Obregon 1
'I'lgh It
i '
r.i n
i ge i as an argument In favor j
ii iw .1 of the American fore-es, he i
s, i ii is his personal opinion that
. d-id '
1 earlier stages of the confeiences .
"ii task of Gen Scott and Gen.
' o convince Gen. fibregon that'
!' n
I u 4
i ,t
s i
l4,, r
tl'H
1' IS
'ling e,,.,tuon was not Intended
ep preliminary lo intervention.
" egon, t i said, was Insistent at
ii isk ng why the American army
'is nc a i-aiuum !o eliasn a rabbit."
M i nil, av oi ed to impress Gen. Soitt
,l ' e idea that the Mexican people
Men- a. -i loss to understand why It
" in" essai ) for tho American Govern
f ' ' send a whole army in pursuit
''' nig of liighwaMuen.
i.e s. .at, on the other hand, while
" 4 g ' p'a n that nothing further
' ' a- sufipres'slnii of the bandit leader
' 1 ' s foil. .wors wiifi contemplated,
' iqual'v plain that tho United
!" ' 'md If idled the limit of Its
ii with iigard lo the lsirder raid
' d tt.ih determined in put a Mop
t ' o- urMics in iot-H the bonier.
ii rr I, ope Before I'.lren t Ion.
" elfoit is being made by the Slate
I 'ti.i mi nt to Mud out why the aiitliorl-
' ''llthuahiia have failed lo execute
I'a io Lopez, Villa's principal lieutenant,
wiei u.ih capiiiied several weeks ago,
' oi il I.eieher has reported that the
n' a has been due apparently to the
ili-v m of lhn Mexicans to euro Lopez
''' 1 wounds before killing him, Al
' igh oflli nil lepoits at lhn time plared
I i'iz ui command nf the bandits who
m il me eighteen Americans at
f-i 'a Isabel on January Hi litul also
'a l that he jru tlelpaled 111 lhn raid
"' i "lumbus, Sei'ielHry Lansing said
' irii-rnoon that the Slato Depart
1 .ui no deilnltn proofs lo show
I ' ' w as Hie rase,
!' her the Slate nor Navy Depart-
Cotifimicef os Thlrtl Page.
WILSON ADMITS HE FELT
LIKE FIGHTING IN CRISIS;
NOT SURE OF PUBLIC MIND
President Declares Moral Force Sometimes Requires
Use of Physical Men Grow or Swell in Office
, Veiled Praise of Col. House.
Wash incito.v. Slay 16. In a speech !
Iwforo the Natlon.il PnM rtm. i.t ndrht '
President Wilson told how tie felt diirlns
the crisis through which he has recently
been called to pilot this Government.
Tho entire speech was devoted to an
Intimate recital of tho President's men-
tal experiences and observations since he
l ..I... ,.,, i
entered tho Vv hlte House. Three years I
k no made a similar speech to the I that I must sail under false colors If I
National Club, the only dlffereneo being I m" KolK tn ,:11 Incognito,
that ho wn tlii.ii ... it,. ,i..i,i i . "Vet, as I have matched my expert
mat no w then .n the threshold of I (.nl.c wm, my anticipations. I of course
his administration, w-hereas lust night ho ,.,v,. been aware that I was taken by
was looking backward and giving the surprise becanso of the prominence of
newspaper correspondents the benefit of ' man-v things 1 '' p' looked forword
bl. ,1..,,- VA-ii-. Art i
his three years of reflection.
VnMrnl Wlls0u tolJ how ,lp (omc.
times longed to dissociate himself from
the ollloe and even to put on a set of
uiijB wiusKers so mat ne miglil tie freed
from the attention that his ottlcl.il char
acter attracts. He told of the Intellectual
contempt he had for somo men who
, tried to tell him how to run the Govern
ment contempt because he knew In ad
vanco that he was talking "In vacuo."
i t- ,it . ...
iisl.ii ju.su 'n'-uoo wiini was re-
garded as a reference to hl relation" to
Col. K. M. House when he said that
he had been able to find two or three
disinterested men to whom he clung
as advisers. Tha President talked In
timately of the foreign situation, and at
one point In his speech, referring to our
foreign relations, he said:
"Jf I cannot retain my moral Influ
ence over u man except by occasionally
knocking him down, then for the sake
of his soul I have got to knock him
down occasionally."
Tlir President' Sprrch.
Here Is the text of the President's
speech lis revised nnd made public by
the White House to-night:
"I was thinking as I was looking for
ward to coming hero this evening of
j that other occasion when I stood very
! nearly at the threshold of the duties 1
have since been called upon to perform
I and I was going over III my mind the
i Impressions that 1 then had by way of
forecast of the duties of President and
comparing them with tho experiences
1 that have followed. I must say that
' the forecast has been very largely veri
fied and that the Impressions 1 bad then
, have been deepened rather than weak-
ened.
You may recall that I said then that
I felt constantly u personal detachment
from the Presidency ; that one thing
' that 1 resented when 1 was not per
forming the duties of the olllce was
being reminded that 1 was tho President
of the Pnlted States. I felt toward It
as ii man feels toward a great function
whlth In working hours he Is obliged
to pi-rfciim but which out of working
l,nn, 1... 1 ..I ..I ,n .... ..(-. rum :illil
almost foiget and resume the quiet
. course of lu own thoughts.
I "I am constantly reminded as I go
about, as 1 do sometimes at the week
priil. of the nersonal Inconvenience of
being President of tlie United States
l( j w.lMt to know how my people live
lM n mall tow ;,H I ,.lVB to !lO IS to
) go there and they at once line up to lie
counted. 1 migni, in a census insing
year, save the census takers a great
2,500 IN PERIL, SEND OS
TROOPS, ARIZONA PLEA
200 Miles of Itorder Without
a (Suiird Appeals to Sena
tor Ashnrst.
Washington'. May IB A telegram
wns re-celved to-day by Senutor II. F
Ashurst of Arizona, appealing for troops
to guard the '.'00 mile stretch from No
gules to Yuma. The mush.ige Insisted
that the calling out of the Arizona Na
tional Guard for service with the Fed
eral forces, has left 2.sn defenceless
men and women living along the Arizona
border at the mercy of Mexican out
la ws.
A copy of the telegram was sent by
uannii.r Ashurst to SeiTetary of War
tinker, who directed that It
be for-
whatever
warded to Gen. Flint-ton,
for
action the
latter count
take.
Tho telegram.
which came from the.
le-n.miiM nf Commerce of Tucson, e-om-
i iHuoiiiiH in.4 - :
, Ignored a similar appeal made
plaining tuai i.eu. . " ; ........ .
1 "I'"' " follo"a
Kntlie souiliern Arizona noiiier
west of Nosales and east of Yuma
now without protection. Twenty-live
hundred defenceless men and women
In that section appealing for protec
tion. Arizona National Guard now In
Federal service with result that State
and county can do nothing to help
thon.
We appealed to Gen. Funston on the
U'th, but received no reply. Their Is
not a single soldier on the Pima
county border to-day.
Arlvaca, Sasahe, Las Guljas and
other settlements In section should
be looked after. We appeal to you to
see that sufficient force Is stnlloned
them. Please advlsu at earliest op
porlillilty. Have wired other Repre
sentatives. Tucson Chamber of Commerce4,
A. P. Maiitin, president.
Appieclallng the dllllcully of attempt
ing to patrol the entile border effectively
with the limited number of Hoops at
his disposal, Sen. Funslon has p-com-
i ii. the War Den.irtineiit Ihe no.
i.tlon of ii corps of forty-eight motor -
I..'.,' im win, thirty iniidcm outllts
i.M.i eighteen single niachlms.
li Is hs purpose io niauu r.i i
iso
tho baso or operations lor mo minor
cycle scouts who, with tlie facilities for
e-eivcring ground quickly, will enable
the olllcers along tho border lo ke-i. n
more constant touch with Isolated see
Hons along the International boundary,
Seciotarv Baker has approved the ice
omniendatlon and the machines will be
usseinbled at once4.
Canneries Hill tu lie Vetoed.
Al.tiANT, May 1. The opposition to
the Argetslnger bill, which would give
canneries tho right lo employ women
twelve bonis a d:o dining the nHi
(.eafon Is so great that Goi. Whitman
will veto It
tlcnl of trouble hy nsklng them to ac-
minp.inr nie ami count tho people on
tlie spot.
onus for n macular.
"Sometimes when 1 am most beset 1
seriously think of renting a pair of
whiskers or of doing something else that ,
wl" U""M mc, wl,h nn n( 'em'M. ',
guise, iit-uuust, i urn rurry ii. linn mat, ;
c, ot mv iii, i, unmlstakabl nnd .
IO- vv lien tve lire iiciiiiutf Willi oomesiie:
nfTl.u itn.illnninll ten u r.i . In-ill.. ...1,1. I
'.l,r,,L.M'nT-.t tn lis ns Amerlrnna , r
or less calculable.
There Is a singular variety among our I
cJtlienshlp, It is true, a greater variety I
even than l had anticipated : but after
atl, we are all steeped In the samo at
mosphere, we are all surrounded by the 1
same environment: we are all more or
less nffected by the s.mio traditions, and,
moreover, we are working out something
that lias to bo worked out among our
selves, and the elements nre there to be '
dealt with at first hand.
"Rut when the fortunes of vnur nwn
.i.imirv nre. n tn a.iv. anlileet' in ii.nl
i ... V. I., . w-liul- ,7.
" " -
blow nir tlirnutzt. other nrts nf Hia '
world, then the strain Is of a singular
and unprecedented kind because you do
not know by what turn of the wheel of i
fortune the control of thlnirs Is enlnv
to be taken out of your hands. j
"It makes no difference how deen tV.o '
passion of the nation lies, that passion,
may be so merborne by the rush of for-
tune in circumstances like those whlcli I
now exist that you feel the
9 Sl.rt Of- I I
almost said resei.tmcnt that a man feels I
when his own affairs are not within hlu ;
own hands.
"Vou can Imagine the strain on the
feeling of any man who Is trying to In
tel pi et the spirit of his country when
he feels that that spirit cannot have Its
own way be)ond a certain point. And
one of tli.. greatest points of stialn on
me, If 1 may bo permitted to lilnt It out, I
w.i this. Then- are two reasons why the
chief wish of Americans Is for peace. j
"one Is that they loe peace and have I
notlii'-g to do with the present quartrl,
and the other Is that they believe tho
present quarrel has cnrrlnl thoe en
gaged In It so far that they cannot be
held to ot dinar) standards of responsl-
blllty and that therefote, as some men '
have expiessed it I" me, since tin ret of
the world Is mad, why should we not
simply r4fui to have anything to iln
with the reit of the world In the ordinary
channels of iictlon'.' Why not let tb
storm pass and then whtu It is all .over
have the teckoniiigs? ;
Knowing that from both these two
points of view the passion of America
was for peace, I was nevertheless aware,
that America Is one of the nations of
the world not only, but one of the chief
nations of the world a nation that
grows more nnd more powerful almost In
spile of herself, that grows morally
mine and more mtltientlal even when
she is not aware of It. and that If she
I'miti'iurl on Fourth Pngr.
SAYS DEMOCRACY OF
ALLIES BLOCKS PEACE
(iermaii Paper Asserts Kaiser
Is Willinr Denies
Cluirtres hy (Jrey.
-prci'll I'ahle PtiMlrh tn Tlie Stv
I.o.stmiv, May lfi. The Koelnlnrhr
rifiini; puhllsles angry comment on the
interview of Sir Kd weird Grey with the
lorrespondeiit of tlie Chicago Diity
.Veics The German paper sajs that It
readily b'lleves that a confereneo to set
tle the. difficulties of the Kuri"ieau na
tions long before I he war would have
been congenial tei Sir IMward Grey, ns
Austria and Germany would have been
outvoted iiii.l Sir IMwnrd Grey would
have obtained peacefully what he has
up to this time not attained by war nor
'can ever attain while a single German
I bieathes.
I Tho newspaper stiles that Kir IMwnrd
i Grey's denial of the existence of a co.ill
I tlon against Germany befoio thu war Is
a deliberate falsehood
Precisely what has become bankrupt
, ,hl .. 1(. Z(j,mi, ,., dc,
Imoi'rac), according to tho taste of As
qulth, Giey mill Polncaio. If Franco
Iliad had a king all perhaps would have
happened dlfferentl) In July, I It 1 4. Tho
that his Government shows a teailiiiess
for peine, but Hie bankrupt democrats,
of London and Paris cannot. We will
continue to light for the victory Hint Is
the only answer Germany will give Sir
Kdwaid Grey."
PEACE RUMORS HEARD.
Wnsblnuloii Mi-1 Ii- v i' Luteal Report
la Hue lo liermniis. ,
AslllNiiTON, May Hi Another peace
trpoit was current In Wiihhltsiloii to-
la). Inspired, It is iiuuerhtoiui n i;iiio. i
received
piaii advice said lo have been
bv ii diplomat here repieseiilliig one of
(he Fiiropean neutrals.
It was to tin4 effect that tlie ree ent peace
pioposals made by the Pope bad been
lollowed by suggestions from other quar
tern that might lead tn tiinglbb4 results.
In fart it was said that the peace move
ment wan beginning to attain some head-
1 way and that
I made Unit In a
suggestions had been
preliminary peace con
I lirence Gi
tent liillaln would be retire-
I l-cnicii ny i.orn nnrniim, normally ny
I'linci! von Buiiow and France by ex-
Ptemler Boui'jols.
However, tills latest peace repot t was
not credited by oillclals of the Washling.
Ion Government and was given no rein
slderiitlon at fo-day's Cabinet meeting, In
fact, there Is a dbposlllon among ofll
elals tn nllrlbulo tho latest pence rumor
lo Geimnu lulluences.
Siilillilirllir I. -I I l.lllincbril,
Ql'ISi'r, Mass., May lfl, The sub
mm Ine fleet nf the United States re.
reived a powerful addition lo-dav when
llin L-ll was launched heir. The new
craft Is 17" feet long nnd has a cru'slng
rndliis nf moie Hunt Tt.Mn miles it Is
on oUthe largest In the navy,
LEADERS BELIEVE
HUGHES WILL WIN
Prediction That He Will He
Nominated on Second or
Third Ballot.
BOOM GROWING RAPIDLY
"Favorite Son'' Confcrenec
Leads Sherman Managers
to (.renter Hopes.
Wamiixoton', May 16. The conviction
Is steadily growing nirlong political lead-
ers In Washington that Justice Hughe
will b nominated an tho Republican '
Presidential candidate after the Chlcugo
convention has gone through the for-,
mallty of casting complimentary votes j
for favorite sons.
Tn-n ttrntlhllcltl. ono ft
deleK.iln at 1
. - ... .. ... u
Stite and tin'
" V 5. IL- ',o v..,r., '
State, nreillctid to-day that Justice
h,,,.i,,.. ni,i t.e jimnltiateil on the we-
n,i nr third ballot. The first ltepubli-
can, who is known to favor icooseveit, I
was asked : "Who will be chosen at fill-1
cago7" I
"Why discuss the obvious?" he re-
plied. "Hughes will be nominated."
The second Republican, who would,
rather lose with lloosexelt than win '
with him, was usked the t-ame question,
"As you know, my Statu has a candl- i
date," he replied, "and I will Btand by
. ' . .' i ..i I
L .I ) : r
.Neverilieil'SS, ill Illy uiiliuiin nil- "Mil I
n.. .'.. n,..., i. i,..l
,,,. ,iu,t In the minds of Republicans
that Justice Hughes will nccept the nom-!
lnatlon If It Is tendered. In my opinion
i, ...m i. i,,.v., m ih. ililr.l imllnt."
" 1
l-nlrlinnka r.ir Vlee-I'realdrnt.
, . ., . , , , ,..,,,,, i
Information was obtained to- la that a ,
prominent middle Western senator "no,
' inl. I..
SiaiCIlieill II .1 I'" ii.i, m ,. nit,, ii.
will advocate the nomination of Justice
Hughes, declaring that the logic of the
situation calls for Ills sele lion.
The Hughes sentiment is growing so
rapidly in Washington. In fact, that a
boom was launched here to-day to make
Charles W Fairbanks of Indiana the
VI Preside!. tla! candidate Mr Fair
banks Is one of the group of favorite
sons and has forty delegates already
pledged to htm for first place4, and ex
pects to have more before the convention
Is called to order.
The drift of Republican sentiment
toward Justlie Hughes Is pronounced
ntnong what ar known as the "(Md
Guardsmen." This element of the party
started out several months ago In an
endeavor to "stop" Theodore Roosevelt.
In their opinion, they aci-omptlshed this
purpose, and then they tried to eliminate
Hughes.
The old time lwlltlclans sre frank In
the admissions .Unit Hir-Hirs sentiment
has grown steadily Instead of declining,
and that many of the delegates who
were "hand picked" for delivery to one
nr the other of the favorite sons have
given notice that after the required com
pllmeiitary votes they Intend to get
IHiind Hughes. Advices of this char
acter have come from tlie West, from
New llugland and from the Soutr, where
the leaders are hungry for the return
of a Republican President.
Kn.eirltr Hun lli.mtirr
I mifrr.
Publication of tlie fact tli.it maiiagcitt
of favorite son candidates met here Sun
day and dlscis-sed was and means to
elbow Justice Hughes out of the race
has stlrie-d up a lot of bad feeling The
obvious conclusion drawn from this was
that tlie favorite sons would be able to
tuindle their delegates Just as they chose.
One of the managers who took part In
Sunday'. conference was Granville
Mooiie), who is looking out for Theo
, dure II. Burton's Interests, .Mr Moonej
has been advir-ed by some Ohio leaders
! that lie would better contltie bis efforts
to getting more delegates mid holding
what he has, and not enter into any
agreements that lie may not be able to
' keep.
In a statement Issued at Sherman
. headquartets to-day theie is all liitlma
' tlon that at Sunday's conference an
agreement was reached with a view to
iimttllig over one of tlie favorites. Tho
statement says In part
"Following conference )n Washington
last Sunday the managers nf the Slier
I man candidacy have strong reasons for
' the belief that the Republican Presiden
tial nomination will go to the middle
West, and If that proves to 1m so the
particularly availability of the Illinois
i candidate Is counted on tn make the
r ho Ice strongly Incllni-il tow-.-ml the fa
vorite son of the State Hint gave Lincoln
nnd Grant to the Union. The managers of
i the Sheiman candidacy are gnatl,v
I pleased with the headway the Sherman
I movement has madi, In the l-;ast and
other sections of the country during the
I last week.
Senator Sherman will make a number
of addresses In the K.ist In the next few
weeks, On May 2 he will speak at the
fiftieth anniversary banquet of the Na
tional Association nf File Underwriters'
at New York On Ihe following day he.
will make an address to the Vermont,
Republican Stale convention tit Mont-;
peller. On May 3d he will deliver the.
Memorial Day address at Grant's Tomb
In New York.
STRAW VOTE DEMANDS HUGHES.
Itrrrlvea .i.O.i'i of .1,1 B7 Votes,
I House-veil 1.NS7.
met
BiTl'Al.o. -i i)' 16. A Presidential
I preference) pi ll.tr'. enllilllctod b tlie
Buffalo l-Uprtox during the Inst ten du)s,
i closed to. nig it. Tlie vole came princi
pally finm the nine counties of western
i 4N'1'"' Vork. with a few scattering voles
IIOIO III" ..iiin.i mm .-ni-iriii L I Ml II I ICS
ami Peiins.i Ivanhi.
The vole, which was rrstilcted to
affiliated voters, icsillleil: Hughes,
Roosovell, I.M'", Root, 9I! ; llcnrv
Ford, till' La Follelte, ,11; Sherman, S3,
Knox, U-. Burton, Hi; l''.-iirhatiks, 1.1;
Boinh, f. ; Mrl'all, 2; Weeks,
WILSON INSISTS ON RUBLEE,
Aaka Srnnliir llollla l I rue Itrroii.
aldrriitlon of Voir,
Wasiiin'otvin4, May I G, President
Wilson has usked Senator llollls lo en-1 disadvantage when It conies to the ex
ter the motion in die Senate to teciiii. ; ptesslon of the preferential choice of
slder the Vole for tho nomination of ; the Republicans of this State for a can-1
George Rublee to Ihe Federal Trade Com- dhlalo for President. Fxperlence shows ,
mission, anil will press tho conllrmn- that It Is almost Impossible for voters.
tlon, btinu'ing whalever power ho can on to write lu ti e-anuiiiatc's name to the ex
ilic Deniocrallc Senators, who voted1 tent necessary to Insure his choice, The
against Rublen yestetdny. ! candidate whose niiino Is pt luted on ths
The President, Il Is t-nld, reallies that ' ballot thus has an enorrr.ous advantage.
the conllimoll'in of Brandels for Asso
elate Justice 's lied up In Hie fate ol
Rublee.
The olltconia will he watched tillh
great Interest because of th President's
personal Interest in tne -me.
1
BOTH SIDES CLAIM
KEYSTONE VICTORY
Penrose nnd IIrumbaurli Fac
tions in Close Hare for Hc
piililiciin Delegates.
PALM Kit AN EASY WINNER-
Philadelphia Loans of $111,
000,000 Opposed by Pen
rose Are Approved.
I'lllLApei.i'lllA, May 17 (Wednesday).
At an early hour this morning the
result of yestcrda.v's statewide Republi
can primaries npp'ars to be much In
doubt, llolh the Penrose and Brum
biUKh fHctlcins assert with conlldenco
that they have elrrted their slate for
delegates to the Republican national
convention.
i lie. xorm .inirriciin says
"U Is estimated tll.lt the Hnlmb.lUgh
ticket has a lead of 15,000 votes 111
Philadelphia, and leputs from Allegheny
- ounty gio It a had of J.OOO. Returns
from the up-State counties are i.nusualty
slow4 In coming In, n t half of the sixty
seven counties r.avlng reported at mid
night. Whether the Pentose ticket can
upset the lead gained by Its opposition
In Philadelphia and Allegheny counties
is considered doubtful.
"Of the twleve delegates at large to
tho Republican 'onveiitloti, It Is llkel)
there will ! n split between tnc pen-
rose and llrumbaugli elements,
tlie lal-
ter nrobablv Calnlng eight delegates
' 4 , , , . , ,I,.,.
Tlie Public l.riliicr sass: Willi in-
. complete returns at 1 n clock the results
point tothe election of eleven delegates
Mo the Republican national cnnw-ntloti,
Iiemlril be Senator Penrose and bailied
by his fartlnti. The twelfth delegatu I
doubtless will be (iov. llrumbaugli.
There Is a bate jiiiHslblllty of -Mayor
, , ()f ,.,,,,,.,. .iisplaclng one of
. ., ,,,ndldat.s, ' owing to the
fact that Smith ran many thousands
! uhi ad of his ticket
I "In the preferential column for Pres.
I blent honors are N'lng divided between
'Gov llnimlviucli. Henry Ford and Col.
Roo.evelt In the order named
"Three-font ths of tne dlstiict di borates
to the national Republican convention
will lie those favored by the Penrose-
Oliver wim; ami will go to the convention ,
unltistructed. '
"Candidates for State offices who 1
favored the Penrose faction have won.
based on returns teieived itji to 1 o'clock, j
The Prr, on the other hand, asserts ,
that the renroe Taction nns won a ,
faction has won
notable victory, and will send the ma
jority of delegates to the national con
vention. The Ford backers admit that the'r
candidate has no chance," It continues,
"ilth'iugh he did cut Into the vote In
tlie light between Penrose and the llrum
baugli faction. The vote was light on
account eif the weather Senator Pen-
te.se said at 1 A
M. that his state f''r
. ... I ..- 1...., ......I.... ,I.A ..!,. 1
Itail.m.ll ii.-ieni.-.- in... ,..- .....
of Philadelphia It
al-o estimated
that Sn.vder. the Penrose candidate for
Auditor-General had defeated Ambler,
the Ilitimbaugli choice In this f.ty the
estimated majorltv for Sn dcr was placed
' at :0.00a
Both i.enuiits ill the Itepilb.n'an part)
had united 111 supporting Philander C
I Knox for United States Senator to sue
md George T Oliver, and. a Mr. Knox
1 has no opposition. Ids noinlnat.un was
I assured.
Tlie Philade lphia transit and gem ral
Iniprovenii tit loins, totalling $111,000,
tuio, which met with opposition from
Penrose, were carried
With A. Mitchell Palmer leading as
'a candidate for tieluclloii to his p.ut.v's
national committee, the Palmer-.McCor-miek
admlmstiatloir Democrats, or "te
organlers." as they were formerly
called, seem to have made a primal)
cleanup in the Male. Congressman
Michael l.lebel of Kile, with twin ma
chine backing and liquor support, was
Palmer s opponent.
, The Palmetiles iiomlnalid Samuel It.
, I'lillsou of Somerset county over James
M. Cramer of Witmureland e-otiuiy for
Stale Tteasurer. and James II Murriti of
I.-ickaw anna county over John F. Lenny
of I Hla wan cismty for Auditor General
Aipaiently tlie I 'aimer element has cap
tured tli majority of the national del
egates at latge, Isit the slain may be
clacked In a few plans The In. 11; of
the delegation will In- with Palmer In
the national couvitition
The Democratic part) was the only
party to elect a national committeeman
at the prlmailes, the niles of other
parti" tiiovldlie,' for different methods
,,r election
VERMONT FOR HUGHES.
I'vtn to line liter lloosev ell, Willi
Oct I, ess Vntea Thnn Wilson,
Ri'Tl.AN'n. VI . Ma.v li". --Vermont's
new
primary law was given Its
first
I tryout to-day
when the
voters
had an .
oppoitunlty lo express their preference
for Hie Presidency. lass than a sixth
of the normal vote was cast
At a late hour to-night incomplete
letuins Indicated that Justice Hughes
led Theodore Roosevelt about 2 lo 1 for
the Republican nomination,
ran a very poor lourlh and
l-Illhll Boot
i few scat -
triing votes weie cast for Wciks. Dil
Pont and l'onl
Tho vote cast for President Wilson
was considerably smaller than that le
celved by Hughes, but was much larger
than Hie Roosevelt vote.
To-day's voting was simply an ex
pression on the part of the voters, and
the tesiilts nie not binding under Hie law
on Ihe delegates l the national conven
tion. FIGHT HUGHES WITH CUMMINS.
IIOIISI44. ril t.-.ll...l.-lllis ill iirrniin
llihorlril lit Support luvvnn.
' PonTt.ANP. Ore, May lfi Roosevelt 1
j Republicans m (iiegou'are urged by T. '
'Albert B. 'unimlns for President lu Ihe, '"'' " "..'. i,,., -,.,,, ,i,; ;.r: . ',r :'nm s l" lw 1,r'K
Iprlmar) Flhlav The name of Justice arr ,Cl V -n , 'i, . ,1s, r mvi b-C f. r ' (i,'n' ","U'1 -M ! 1 t . . , hy Ins former as
iWugl.es appears on the Republican bal- .,,'', ' )' ' "I ' .".v'atcs In theSevcn.h Regimen- of the
lot. llegisteri'il progressives are iirgen
to vote for Roosevelt for President, and
Illrani W. Jnlinsnn for Vice. I'tesldenl.
Neuhaiiseii in a statement to Pre.gies
she voters sas "Col. Roosevelt s 1
name Is not printed lu the Republican I
ballot In Oiegon, He Is at an extreme
That nemg a rccngiureii ran, it mis neen
dinned the best course for Roosevelt '
supporters In tho Republican parly lo
. throw their support to i'liinmliis as a i
I tribute4, to his prngrnitslvo trcoid ns4
champion of people'- rights." J
CABINET AT ODDS OVER
CALLING OF ENGLAND TO
TASK ON THE BLOCKADE
Some of the President's Advisers Urge Against Vigor
ous Action, While Others See Political
Gain in "Sharp Notes."
U ASiii4.i,io.., .luy 10. --Following the
Cabinet meeting to-day there wcr In
dications that the President's official
advisers nro at odds over the course tho
United States should pursue In the dip
lomatic controversies now pending with
Ureat llrltaln.
Stale Department olllilala having pub-
llcly said that thev would not permit
4 I
tJennany to force tlie United States to
proceed vigorously against the British
naval blockade utid that treaty obliga
tions limited this fiovernmenl's action
to diplomatic protests, nie In favor of
continuing the Rrltlsh negotiations on
an even keel.
They nre convinced that all Injuries
surfered by Americans will be ndjusted
fairly and In due couise mid se no
teason for unduly pressing for Immedi
ate decisions, or for using sharp Ian
guage In the diplomatic correspondence
between tlie two governments.
Rut other of the Piesideiil's adviser
are appaiently becoming concerned
about the political effect which the pur
suance of this policy may have, espe
cially with regard to the pro-Oerman
and Irish vote.
They point out that the President has
an excellent opportunity to deal with tho
Rrltlsh questlen now from the viewpoint
of "home consumption." A sharp note
to (ireat Britain, they add, would doubt
less find much suppoit, es-x. dally In the
South and West, where the Rrltlsh Killcy
has been the cause of great financial
losses.
Tnkr lllfTereiil Positions.
There Is already a wide divergence be
tween tlie position which Secretary Lan
sing has assumed on the general subject
of the Rrltlsh negotiations and the. posi
tion wnieii other udvlsers believe this
Government should assume. From the
I State Mepartment the hews comes that
i the United States will continue the nego
1 tlatlons less vigoiously and less expe
, ilitlously than If Germany bad nut at-
tempted to make vigorous action a condl
tlon upon which will test continuance of
the abandonment of Illegal submarine
warfate.
From other olllcial pouters, howi.ver,
come statements that the United States
will act with great vigor against Great
llrltaln nnd that the President is Plan
ning sharp action in connection with the
Rrltlsh blockade
Published statements that the United
States proposed to send a vigorous de
mand upon Great llrltaln within tho
next twenty hours on the question of
mail seizures by th.. Rrltlsh naval
authorities btouglit Sir Cecil Spring-lllce.
,.lHv
me iirmsii Ambassador, to the Slate I)e-
T,, 1,,, ,,.,,,. ., ,11Pnrl...l ,n
4 - .
. . 4 4
. ..... ...... .... iniiii .ri.uirn 11..11
been prepated ami that there was little
prospect of any communication op this
subject going to (ireat llrltaln4 this week.
LEVI P. MORTON, 92,
CELEBRATES BIRTHDAY'
Out
(illl
hrivinir Oespiic liiiin:
to I'p-Stntc Farm for
Summer To-daj .
Levi Parsons Moiton. Vlce-Piesldent
of the United States lSS5-'.'3. celebrated
).stefilay tho ninety-second anniversary
of Ins bit th. He spent the day quietly
j at his home, lf'0 Park avenue, sur
rounded by inembeis of his immediate
, family, and despite the rain he went out
j for two drives. In the morning and lu the
afternoon
Before retlritig at R o'clock lat night
I Mr. Moiton has long believed In going
'.Ii bed earl) lie said that lie had had "a
jveiy happy birthday." He was partlcu-
larly anxious in get a good night's rest,
1 as he Intends to go to-day to Ids country
I estate. F.lletslie. lib iiccllff-on-tlie-llud-1
son. to spend the4 slimline, lie will be ac-
iTmpanled by Mrs. Moiton. Thu v
1 ib.e statesman and banker Is veiy
'tier
fond of Hllershe, which embraces l.nuO acres,
and has bun ciguly looking forward to
Ins summer stay there4.
Mr. Motion Is In good health and gets
a keen zest out of living. Mrs. Morton
his companion lor forty-three ci-rs Is
also well.
Mr Mutton Is a Green Mountain boy
who fought ills wa.v to the top of fame
in business and politics He was born at
Slioiei am, Vt . on May Hi, Is'Jt. He
had ictiied from active pnlltlc.il llle
1 when in l"x lie nicepieu me uiuiiiiiaiiuii
' as Benjamin llairlson's running mate.
Two i-ars aner in4 leaseu io oe . n-e-Pi.sliient
he became Governor of N'ew
York llsOr.-Olll. He served as Minister
to France, issi-v,'i
COMPULSION BILL PASSED.
I'oiiinions
Volra
;,ll
lo lift. In
inr of Hie
"ile'naiirr.
fpmnl Vnlilt titiUri f" Tin: Ms
Iis-nov. May IS The compulsion lilll
liassed Us third reading in tlie House of
i ..,,,',...,, in.dnv bv a Vote of 2r.ll to 3
The compulsion bill was Introduced by
Premier Asqultli In the House of Com
mons on May 11 last It becomes effec
tive a month after lis passage. The
'" ,;.,',,', ,.i ,.ri, i., ..i.ii. n.1 f........
for Industrial work to which Hie Govern
ment may assign as many men us Indus
trial conditions demand.
WHITE STAR EARNINGS JUMP.
Illvldrnila of tin Per Cent. Branmril
flrr n Slump.
iprcml t'nhlr ltiatch tu Till (r
Lo.s4pon4, May hi. The While Slnr
Line, whose profits slumped lu 191 1 I
owing to the win from a dividend of'
fiti per cent, to MA per rent, shared the I
shipping prosperity of inn
The dividend Is again lifi, with a stir-,
plus of ti, tins, :sri iii.rii,:,'i). noiwiih-
standing that half thu excess piotlts
were taken by the Government, other
special chnigri met and the Arabic lost,
He was Informed that the United States!
regarded this Issue as Independent of the
blockade and that It was a matter of
special Importance to American business .
Interests that It should be satisfactorily
adjusted. I
To Slnkr i oncrsalona.
The Ambassador explained to Couu-
wllor Vok lmt 'J10 ,lr',l8h ""verrmient
Wrw resdv to tn.-ikn everv concession in
favor of American Interests that would
not Involve permitting (Jermany to use.
the malls fiaudulently for sending of
supplies or contraband or for other
Illegal nurnoses. Sir Cecil believes that
the two Governments will have no elllll- j
culty in reaching an agreement on this
matter.
The position which Secretary I.anslti5
run taken with legard to the Rrltlsh
controversies Is admittedly radically dif
ferent from this Governments position
with tegaul tu Germany's submarine
warfare.
Mr. Lniwlng believes that pending
Rrltlsh questions can bo settled after thu ,
war He believes that the German Issue 1
Involving AmeilcHii lives on the high 1
seas must be settled now No amount of
arbitration or monetary remuneration
will bring hack American lives rncrlllced
en the high seas, lie contends. Losses lu
commerce can be made up financially nnd
tlieio Is no reason to believe that Amei
leans who have siifered such losses will
not be fully compensated.
It Is explained that tho United States
does not Intend to let claims against
Great Btltnln go by default, simply be
cause Germany attempted to force the
hand of this Government In Its ileal
ings with tlie Entente. Such a pioccilure
would be nbsurd, State Department offl-1
rials explain.
Infringement of American commerce 1
tights In Hie naval blockade and all
other qiie-tlons Involving American'
rlcbts nr.4 to be pressed by the United 1
UtHlA. tai-'iliiwf rlrnfit llrllnln n. rinv
other belligerent that violates tlietri.
Hut they nre not to bo pressed to the
point of threatening to back them either
by force or by reprisals. Both these
eontlngcrrles are eliminated by the
Bryan t eaty with flrent Britain, ac
cording tn Secretary Lansing.
Secretary Lansing's statement that
treaty obligations pri-cluded anything
but diplomatic discussion eir possible ar
bitration on questions Involving the
United States and Great Britain lias
admittedly mule it difficult for the
United State" to benefit politically .'it
home In Its British negotiations. Sharp
words with nothing behind them would
be useless. It is explained, and would
not tend to Increase tlie concession which
this Government hopes to get from 5re.it
Britain.
Nevertheless th-ie are several of the
President's advisers who believe that tho
next eommiinlestlnn which the President
sends to Great Britain should be
couched in as vigorous language as
diplomat!, usage will stand. Secretary
Lansing, however I understood not to
Indorse tins procedure
WOULD BAR GADSKI'S
GERMAN SONG AT YALE
Ihiti-h" Piirter. K-Piteher.
Protests Itpi'iitise Her Ilu
hiiiiil Was Indicted.
Waller 1' Carter. Dutch Carter, the
fonuer Vale pitcher, is making a -strong
protest against the engagement of Mine.
Gadskl to slug In tlie opera "Dio Wnl
kuere" In the Yale Bowl on June T. He
began b) writing a letter about It to
tin4 I'or lull; .Vrirs, printed at New
Haven je-terday afternoon, and wound
up by adding a little lo Tug St'.s last
cvoniiitr.
"Mine. Gadski's husband is under In
dictment us a German t-py." sild he,
"ajid under the circumstance i don't
think It light that she xing at Yale
Yale Is n national Institution. That
is the point. Furtlicrmoie, Mine. Had
ski has lu en talking lu the nowspapcts
"Peisonallv I ilont care a whoop if
I'm alone In my filling, hut fiom
what I've beatd to-day I don't HiUil:
1 ii tn I ivanl.d the Yale fellows lo
know how I "Hi. and now they do know.
Theie ate othcri like me on Hie cam
pu "
Mr Carter Is a luoihet. in-law- of ,lu.
ticn Hughes o the United Slates Su
preme Cunt In his note to the IVifc
lliiily Si H's lie said .
"1 undeisl.iud that Mine
going to sing a German oi
adskl is
ra
in tlie
bowl. Iler liiisbauil Is iiml
ment as a Geim.in sp, and
r iudiet
s a Yale
iniiii and especially as an Aineili.ui 1
i want to ptotest against liei engagrmetit
to sing at a Yale function.
"Yale Is a national institution, but
I the recent utterances of Serietary Stokes
'and Prof Phelps ,-uiil the engagement of
Mine. Gadskl made me t-ore.
"1 don't suppose you will publish tills
becaiii-e it Is loo direct, but I lion.,
I )ou will.'
RAISE FUND FOR APPLET0N.
1'rlenils or llrluniller-l.cnerill
seek
sum nf sillll.uilll,
It
became known last m.jhi thu
'x',"OM'" mud. in winch he
helved ns
i 1 1 uiiii'i lor mote than n quarter of a
I century Gm. Applt ton gave up bis
i whole tune lo the icgimenl, sacrificing
for it bis Interest in the publishing
I hiill-e of D Appleton A- Co ,
j Sun i his I etiiement some of hl-i
friends in his old conimnnd have stalled
1 il fund for his U'lielll. The sum nf
I Jii.iino, it is said, bus ahead) hem talsed
liy one giiiup or men, ami the leiiialniler i
Is expected to follow quickly
I'orltiunl -Not In vlllra' Piicl.
f)rrlil I'iiiV i.vitci fii Tnr Si s.
l.i.M'.iN, May 1 1'. Ill teply lo a qin.
Ho, i in the House of Commons to-day
Mi Kd ti a id Ore, Foirlgii Secretar.v,
said Dial Portugal had not Mgn.d tlie
agreement not in make a separate peace
CASEMENT IS IN
TEARS AT TRIAL;
KEARCOLLAPSE
Weeps Over Testimony
That Tells of Death of
His Associates.
FAUMKUPLTPOLICIO
OX PliOTTKll'S TRAIL
Konnd His Daughter, Aged
Playing With Pistols
Invaders Dropped.
IM'SSrAX KIFLKS
SKXT 1Y G Ell 31 ANY
( YnvvnV
M'" "
Evidence Nearly
All In; End of Jlearing
Expected To-day.
Ijruf Ctihlf litipiitfh tn Tur .stv
Lonpo.v, May 11. Dramatic Incidents
followed one another In rapid succession
at tho hecond day's proceedings In the
hearing of Sir Roger Casement and
Daniel Italic)4 In Row street polke court
on the charge of high treason. Again
the court room was filled to Its capacity,
and again a curious crowd thronged the
stieet to catch a glimpse of the pris
oners. j 1,1 the point of pathos the second day
1 of the trial even surpassed the first.
Sir Roger at one e-tage of the sesi'jn
, was completely abandoned b his usual
Jaunty, unconcerned air, breaking Into
convulsive sobs. Thioughout the hear
, line he showed signs ot extreme nervuus
t Hess. Public intere-ht bad Incre.ued
, rather than dlmlulslied. Curioeliy diew
' to tlie court room suili notables as Sir
Arthur Wing linero, l.oul Mein-.v and
, Mis. Alice Sophia. Green, w.dow of the
, hbtoil.ill.
. Step by step the ptosecution lei-day
I tract d i.'asemeiit's actions fiom the time
1 lie landed until lie was broiuht to the
Tower of London. Two children figured
prominently In the d.i)'s. prt.t ediniis,
one a scven-.vc.ir-oid girl into whose
hands fill Ihlee of toe seve .i' thou
sand weapons that had bet , d -i.ued lo
"free Ireland." Ihe other a lweiii...ii.ar
old In.) who 111 the Wltlle-s ho Identified
Casement and whose Uiildlil.e manner
added a totii h of humor i i me li.-.nlng.
I eliciting a .iicerful laugli inn ti nu tne
j pruiotirrs
runner Implied I iim-ii I,
The father of the g:i I, a f ii ou r iiaim d
, M'l'aith). ihe da) s llrst wi nes,, to.il
a sti.r wiilili pioved him to le- the man
re. ill) responsible for I'a.-cineiit s cap
ture through the tiacng o' f iotniints
on the sands whetc rieuiinis tol
' lap'ilile boat had been lo -ed by tho
waves
I'ven fiom the bottom of the sea cai.iia
unpoi-'aiit threads of the web "f evnleii -.
aitfully stunt about the a u--eil by the
Goveriiiui ut's counsel A il ui tc Uhed
to his visit to the wreij of tin Utile
German ship And, eighteen falluni,- "be
low." wheie lie found arms, some eif
Russian make, piumlcd fm the ii iel.
Some of these weapons ho bad poked
up and he produced them in court
A l.vple.il Irlh in. i.d .lb-4 .l.ied a
part in tlie Government's ease as a wit
ness, plentlf) lug Cas. nstil
Thus, m orderly i-hionologi. al prog es
sioii, the Crown built up its t.tse of high
Reason. Little mole evnleii. e lelll.lllK
to be lie.ird The heiu ,ng iiinloilbledly
will be llnlshfil to. motion
I'll so in r ii I Nriir e iilltipse.
Inning one peiioil of tlie inoi-i n,g
stsjon S:i Rouer i 'aseim ' sceined tm
the verge of a nerv oils i-oi ,i pse i'he oc
casion was tpe testluiotit hy Selgi Mll-le-r.
Ro.val Irish e'onstabiil.ti-.v . who -ve.M-d
Sir Roger Iniiii Tt.ilee to Dtihl n
h. train At Klllaitiev, the wimess us.
tilled, the i llle f colislal.le put hi- Head
In the train window and asi.nl
"Did ou beat' what h.ippmid i.i those
liovs at Puck'.' The) were , night lu
Ihe tide and drowned
V llfle later, iiei-oidiiiir in the wd-ni-ss.
i 'a-eoii-nl, upon In ,i.g told that
Puck was near I'asllenian Hay. sud
denly began to soli violenil) lie burst
Into i.-at s, s;ij inu
"1 am soil) for those two men It
was on in) account that tint i anie.
Thev wire two good llislllliei. '
Tlie tecltal of tills Im nl. in had an
Immediate effect upon Casement Tears
otirtlowiil Ins o)cs and Ins whole Imdv
shook wlih i nervous p. iro sin llediew
hN handkeniilef and held l b.selv
to his face, but In his net vmi-ne-s li..
inltlrted a long si ralch upon li s nose
Willi Ills right band he st.,,-4e, n. wrltn
feveilshl), lllllng sevetal Pagi s i fools
cap with a trembling hand
VVhcie the tin hhoii, up t 4 over
the coriespondent of Till' Si'4- mm sat
close by the prisoner's disk , oul-i e isi,
seo tlie cap'ion. "G rmaii 'l"'l Wiiat
Casement was wilting wis et ...ntlv .1
denial that his motive was n m ,
starts the l)n .In on ill.' .
The attack of nert oil4-) - ' ed
through the test nl Ihe ninii g sum
lltnl tt lieu lie let! ill. d". U '.;'- ail e
I was In n pllialilt .li.iU. ii It
wasiid:i upon whii'i 'lie ,1 ,,..n.. ,isic
, of Casement's tempi anient bad 111 '
til.lt lie elll.-td Ho ! I- w i '-.
usual Jaillilinesi'. n4 1 i-m i t4 : i' p si I I, -j
pi licit to a nearhv ii'ili.-eiiian ' -'ei'-p-emng
and lllllled toiw.Uil to i. i ,i .
leslimoiiv.
The Hist witness was a f n o . i i red
McCaith), who dlsiovi led tie , v
ble boat off Senium t, and won li'ig' -Iii'.
" r.i I old, was found pl,i ne it , i
tlu.e loaded Mauser vis'"'" " ' u' 4
Call'4)' who. lu It lie Sheil'ii., Il 'linii
tislll.lll. ll'lll Hilled l'e I 111 re si !,-, I
fisiipiinis oil the hands and i ! '.ed
police, thus causing c isi-mei.i s ,ith .
at Mi l. nua's l-'ort.
Mit'.irlh.t's tesiinioiit wa-- .I'ln.'s, i
audible Casement, like ntnrrr. w-
obhgid to usn I, s hand as nr ear Hum
pet When McCntliy. iinsimilns anu
lug a question n- lo his ilaugliiii s age,
ai.swereil "V bundled v nils li"in th
houn s ' Cisiiiiellt laughed 'u-.ilt 't
Tlie pr si nr maintained Ins oteicst
In the pi ii'ivilitigs during Ihe testimony
of Vlar) lb tinin, a fariuei's sir ant,
