THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
Anvwan IJLVJL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAH
1 1 PAGES
ITHUfiwix, 2iivxzX)NA, WEDNESDAY MORXIXC. MAY 17. 191G
14 PAGES
VOL. XX VL NO. 365
OPTIMISM GROWS AFTER SCOTT MAKES REPORT
? J& J& & & T & j& j&
President Reviews His Three Years in the White Housel
MOTIVE OF 0, S.
MAKES PUC
AUSTRIANS PROGRESS
AGAINST ITALIANS IN
TYROL AND ONISONZO
BOND ISSUES
IS THEME FOR
'FOUR CAVALRYMEN IN
BATTLE WITHMEXICA NS
I UNDERSTOOD
WW V
I
T
U PRESS CLUB
n
speaks t' Difficulties of
Presideilev and particu
larly of Motives Which
Have Guided His Hand-,
ling of European Situation
AMERICA FOR PEACE
BECAUSE LOVES PEAC
Save United States lias
Irown to Be hie of Great i
Nations and .Must Act!
from Viewpoint of Rest
of World
CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTORS
HAVE HARD SLEDDING
UONDOX, May lti. "Conscien
tious objectors" Whose objections
to military service have been over
ruled by the military tribunals,
are having liard time of it A
score of them left Rhyl, Wales,
todav for different prisons to un
dergo varying degree.: of punish
ment, as a result of their court
martial on charges of refusing to
obey military orders. Several
were semenced to two years at
hard labor. Some if them hud
refused to put on khaki or snave
ana all refused to drill.
Report Also ( !omes of ( !on
tinuation of Russian Ad
vance Through Kurdistan
To Wariclti, Objective
Being Bagdad Railway
WORKERS
COMES II
E
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May lti. President
Wilson tonight made public a frank
and intimate reViow of his three
veals in the White House and his
impressions of foreign and domestic
problems. delivered confidentially
last night before Washington corre
spondents gathered at the National
Press club. He spoke of the diffi
culties of the presidency and partic
ularly of the motives which have
guided his handling of the European
situation.
"America.'' the president said, "in
for peace liecuuse she loves peace,
nnd believes the present war has cur
ried the nations engaged so far that
they cannot be held to ordinary
standards of responsibility."
onion y
I T
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. May 1 6. Envoys of
the Congressional union for women's
suffrage brought their 10,000 miles
tour of the country to a climax tonight
with a final plea to about 50 reprosrn-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Progress against the Italians in !
Southern Tyrol and on the Lower lson- 1
zo and a continuation of the Russian
advance through Kurdistan to Wari- ,
chi, the Russian objective being the j
Bagdad railway, are related in the lat
eat oficial communications from Vien- 1
na and Petrograd. In the other thea-
ters there Is much artillery fighting t
I but little activity by the infantry.
n I The Austrians in the region south
ranA southeast of Tren t insf Ol 11 and t
Vienna reports capturing Italian j
trenches and 8,650 men, among them
(S officers and captured seven guns
and eleven machine guns. The entry
of Austrians into Italian trenches east
of Monfalcone. near the head of the j
gulf of Triest 'and the capture of ad- ,
ditlonal men.
Petrograd reports that the Russian i
force which recently drove out the 1
Turks from the Rowanduz region is j
continuing in progress westward to-
ward Mosul and the Tigris river region,
ana is drawing nearer the Bagdad rail
way. To the northwest around Diarbkr
the Turks were attacked.
On the greater portion of the line in
Belgium and France the artillery of
both the Germans and entente allies
are active, especially around Hill 304
northwest of Verdun.
The Oermans have directed another
Arizona Good Roads Asso
ciation Closes Annual
Meeting With Re-election
of Dwight l. Hoard As Its
Presiding Officer
MARICOPA COUNTY
LEARNS OK BONDS
information of Much Prac
tical Ose Secured In Dis-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire vicinity to send their families to Ha-
DOUGLAS, Ariz.. May 1G. Four chita Saturday it is stated. The civil U
troopers of the Twelfth cavalry are population of Hachita, frightened by I
reported in local military circles to stories brought by the ranchers,
have -engaged a small but superior armed themselves and sat up all
force of Mexicans Saturday morning night, ready to aid the soldiers sta
and exchanged a number of shots tioned there to repel any raid which
with them, killing one and driving might be made.
the others off. The duel occurred ; A telephone message from arn la. I
on the New Mexico border a few night says that arrivals there today
miles southeast of Culberson ranch report that the city officials of Can-
liiear Antelope Wells, it is stated. anea summoned prominent American
The report says that the Mexicans i residents to come to the city hall,
opened fire on the patrol while its about the middle of last week. The
i members were riding along the bor- ' Americans were asked if it were true
uer. 1 ne Americans replied, atter dis- that all American women and chil
mounting and taking cover. For sev-jdren were to be sent to Arizona and
eal minutes the exchange of shots ; that the Cananea Consolidated Cop
continued until one of the Mexicans per company might close down,
fell apparently dead. His eompan- They' replied in the negative. The
ions then rode away.' The American mayor then stated that he would de
soldiers did not know what Mexican port any American or other foreigner
faction the attackers belonged to. Who was proved to have spread false
This was the basis for a Mexican rumors and anv Mev
CUSSion By DpleLtales! attack scare which caused a number as a rumor monger would he sum-
Feneral Scott Says Carranza
and His Advisers Have
Better Idea of Purposes
of United States Than
Before
SITUATION IS
XOW LESS ACUTE
Obregon Entered Confer
ence With Apprehension
But Departed Satisfied
Expedition Was for Pur
pose As First Stated
t 1 4.:.. . i l.. r i or
i nun t ouuiies .Aiicriuv is
suing Highway Bonds
of the Antelope Wells marily shot
tatives and senators gathered in the ; infantry attack against the French po
rotunda of the capitol for passage of . sitions west of Hill 304 for the posses
the Susan B. Anthony suffrage amend- sion of which thepe has been much
I ment at this session of congress. A sanguinary fighting but the manuever
But he added, the-United States has i dozen suffragettes, including several j was again checked by the French cur-
grown to he one of the great nations representatives of states in which wo- i tain of fire. The Germans in the lake
of the world and therefore must
act. "more or less from the point of
view of the rest of the world."
"If I cannot retain my moral influ
ence over a man except by occas
ionally knocking him down." he said,
"if that is the only basis on which
be will respect me, then for the sake
of his soul, I have got to occasionally
knock him down."
The president declured he had been
kept awake nights considering the
European situatiofi because there
might come a time when the I'nited
States would have to do what I did
not desire to do. and "the great bur
den of my spirits has been that it
has lieeri up to me to choose when
that time came." He added that he
did not conceive that he hail been
elected president to do s he pleased.
If I were, it would have been very
much more interesting." he said.
Impressions of public men as a
class were given frankly by. the pres
men are enfranchised urged their cause i region between Dvinsk and Vilna at
and hinted broadly that this would lie ! tacked and occupied Russian trenches
a good year for both democrats and re- I near Lake Dolje. The Russians, how
publicans to get on the suffrage band j ever, in a counter attack expelled the
wagon. invaders, and drove them back to their
As many spectators as could crowd former position. In the lower Stripa
into the rotunda listened to the i region of Galicia the Teutons launched
speeches, and hundreds stood in the ' an attack against the Russian trenches
plaza outside to applaud the suffra
gists, who marched on the capitol in a
body to the air of "The Marseillaise."
Four hours previously the "suffrage
special" bearing the envoys rolled into Austrian air raiders on Monday at
but were repulsed.
Air Attack Fails
HOME. May 16. It is reported that
t he railway station to lie received by
a large local delegation of women-
tempted to attack a train on win. .
were Queen Helena and the children
OFFICERS OF ARIZONA
GOOD ROADS ASSOCIATION
President. Dwight B. Heard.
Vice-president, Gustav Becker.
Secretary, Harry Welch.
Treasurer. A. .1. Chandler.
Vice-presidents
Hon. Geo. W. I'. Hunt. Governor
of Arizona.
A. L. Cunstetler. Nogales.
Harold Steinfeld, Tucson.
M. .1. Cunningham, Bisbee.
A. J. Eddy. Yuma.
Rev. Cyprus Vavle, Flagstaff.
Pat Rose, Globe.
Tom Campbell, Preacott.
Directors
W. Y. Price. Pinal.
.1. .1. Bower. Cochise.
.1. W. Francis. Coconino.
Wm. Stephens. Yavapai
F. T. Colter, Apache.
L. H Manning, Pima.
Ceo. A. F. Fotte. Graham.
Sam Abraham. Greenlee.
W H. Keegan, Globe.
.1. E. Perry, Mohave.
Warren Peterson. Maricopa.
Allen T. Bird. Santa Cruz.
A. B. Wing. Yuma.
W. R. Wood, Navajo.
ARIZONA GUARD MEXICO MID
TOBEMUSTERED : TEXAS QN HAND
III IN FEW DAYS TO RE SHORN IN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS. Ariz.. Muy 16. Although
it had previously been stated by offi-
rRepi.blican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Texas. May 16.
umerous minor alterations in
the
that the vario
Arizona National Guard; personnel of the list of ofifcers jus;
organizations had made by state authorities delayed to-
been mustered into the federal service j day the mustering in of the Texas
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. May 16. An opti
mistic view of the Mexican border sit
uation was laid before President Wil
son and his cabinet today by Secre
tary Baker, after a long conference
with Majct General Scott, chief o!'
staff. Generai Carranza and his ad
visers now understood the motives of
the Washington government more full
than ever before, as a result of the
conferer.ee at El Paso between Gen
eral Scott and General Funston and
iencial Obregon. Mr. Baker was able
to teil the cabinet, and tension along
the international line has greatly re
laxed. lereral Scott believes that the whol
situation is less acute than it has been
it nrv time since the raid on Colum-
I bus X. M.
General Obregon, it is learned, en
tered the conference w ith much appre
hension, as to the real purpose of Gen
eral Pershing's swift march deep int..
Mexico in pursuit of Villa and his
Saturday. Captain Berkeley Enochs, militia now encamped here. Four rajrirrs j Mexico, he said, it seemed
Eleventh infantry appointed as chiel companies wi re sworn in. and it is
mustering officer by General T. F. ! expected ail will be taken into the reg
Davis. stated today that but two of the ! ular establishment tomorrow. Gen
regiment had been mustered in. These j oral Funston announced that their as
are the quartermaster. Captain A. C. , slgnment to border stations would be
Taylor, and the adjutant, Lieut. Clyde made by the end of the week.
Pickett whose duties made this step The plan for the reorganization of
imperative. The remainder of the the border patrol was completed today.
re,;imenl will be mustered in within
workers. There followed a luncheon at of the royal household. The attack
which about three hundred persons failed and the air raiders were put to
were seated and an "experience meet- flight by Italian airships.
ing" during which most of the envoys
spoke. Then the envoys were borne I" Premiums Reduced
the east steps of the capitol in motor LONDON, May 17. The reduced
cars for a triumphal march into the number of British ships sunk by sub
building, marines during the last fortnight, anil
The steps weer crowded with suffra- the German note to the United States
gettes garbed in white dresses and the ; to sink no more steamers without
the next few days as soon as Captain
Enochs can complete the preliminary
details.
Captain S. J. Morris, medical corps,
Maricopa county delegates at the chief medical officer and sanitary in
closing session of the Arizona Good spector of the guardsmen, stated to-
j Roads association meeting yesterday day that he will innoculate men for
sai r.u drank in huge masses of in- I typhoid fever and vaccinate tnem lor
formation concerning county bond is- smallpox in a few days,
sues, to them, by far the most inter- The guardsmen are being drilled
esting topic discussed at either ses- whenever possible and are making dis
sicn. So intent were they upon learn- i tinct advances in the manual of arms,
ing how nine other counties had Many of the privates are men of
i.asseri bond issues for roads, and .wealth or high standing, social or
how some of Ine work I. ad been done, politically in their home communities
ident with the comment that some Purple, gold and white sashes of the j warning has caused the underwriters
organization and carrying flags of the j to reduce the premium on war risks
same color. Five little girls preceded by one-half of one per cent.
grew and some swelled. He also .lis
cussed the relations of the newspap- .
crs to the affairs of the nation and
sounded a warning that false infor
Btation about foreign affairs was
more than likely to lead to trouble.
The president's remarks as origi- I
nalfy delivered, were read by him
carefully before being made public
but no important portions were ellm- '
inutcd und the wording was not
changed substantially.
The president said:
"I am both glad und sorry to be I
here; glad because I am always hap-
py to be with you. and know and like
so many of you: and sorry because
I have to make a speech. One of the
leading faults or yuu gentlemen of
the press is your inordinate-desire to
hear other men talk, to dRw them
out upon all occasions, whether they
wish to le drawn out or not. I re
memlier being in this press club once
before making many iinptemediated
disclosures of myself, and then hav
ing you with your singular instinct
for publicity Insist that I should give
it away to everybody else.
"1 was thinking as I was looking
forward to coming here this evening
of that other occasion when I stood
very nearly ut the threshold of the
duties that I have since been called
(Continued on Page Seven)
(Continued on i'age Three I
UNIFICATION OF METHODISM
mink Tumnn rnmcnniiiiiiiiTiniUi
muKLJ mmu uu uummn ui
that they scarcely entered into the There are several memDers oi me siaie
discus.-ion. except to precipitate ad- legislature among them some of the
iitional debate bv the interjection of prosecuting attorneys and otnei oui
questions.
r..;,,ti.,.,. (......ri,,.. n. o n ;,i .Ll. i as w
kJ.l KOI .. ....... I I....-
.,;.. ,..,! , ,,, i chine gun platoon and regimental band
. I ! . . 1. 1 .111.1 .' i...i"ir- in ii u.v
Indian appropriation bill, were in- !
clii led in the approved report of the
resolutions committee.
Touched upon lightly in several ad- j
but no announcement of its detail
was made. Orders were issued for
seven companies of coast artillery now i
here to move at once to Del Rio, from
where thev will be -distributed west
ward alon the Southern Pacific,
guarding bridges and garrisoning
l.anglry and Sanderson.
as though a great force armed with
cannon and all the impedimenta o1
war could not be moving merely in
pursuit of one bandit chieftain and his
handful of followers. Undoubtedlv .
Obregon reflected fears felt in Mex
ico Cit that the expedition was in
reality a step towaid intervention by
the United States.
The American conferees were able
to convince the Mexican war minis-
ter. and through him General Car
! ranza that President Wilson's an
! nouncement of the purpose of the ex
j pedition told the whole story; that its
mission was only as described, to pur-
regimental units, i
army and of the
ine new p.u, ..as -er.. umue "o,t.ue or CHplure lhe bandits and return
the idea of maintaining so far as pos- ,ha ,,. rT.,, cfii,i
plishmer.t of Generals Scott and Fun
ston lay in the fact that they succeed
ed in doing this without making any
ole.lges as to when American troops
.vould be recalled.
The change in General Obregon's
sil le the entity of
both of the regular
militia.
Reports today from General Perh- j
ing and from Colonel Sibley indited j
no unusual developments.
"Camp Wilson" is the name given'
to the militia camp near Fort Sam
j Houston by George Armistead. post-
ials. They are earnest and patriotic I master oi fan Antonio, wnen ne es-
ell as anxious to learn. tnbllsned tr.ere today a branch ottice.
The second and third battalions, ma-
New Mexico on Hand
with cheers and applause
NGS N. Y.. May bishop. Earl Cranston, who presided j their experiences with road bonds. A
i of American while the action was taken and -T- Eddy of Yuma told about tin
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SARATOGA SPR1M
!6. The unification
Methodism was advanced another step Bishop E. R. Hendrix, senior member
toward consumation today when, by of the board of the bishops of the
a vote that was virtually unanimous south clasped hands on the platform
the SS0 delegates to the general con- and wept with emotion,
ference of the Methodist .Episcopal "This is the supreme moment of my
church adopted the report of the life." cried Bishop Cranston. "A mar
sjiecial committee on unification, pav- velous result has been achieved."
ing the way to an amalgamation with .'.ishop Hendrix said. I pray that
the Methodist Episcopal church, the whole Methodist church through
South, and the Methodist Protestant out the world, may more and more,
burch. see, eye to eye, and .Bishop Cranston
The adoption of the report, which and myself may live to stand jointly
was the most important und far over the United General conference of
reaching legislation that has been united Methodism in America."
acted by u Methodist general confer- A terrific outburst of applause
ence in many years was attended bv quickly gave way to song, as the
:. tremendous demonstration of en- delegates joined in the hymn, "Praise
tliusiasm. The great auditorium rang God, from whom all blessings flow."
and then took up the strains of
lest be the tie that Binds."
n the platform with Bishop Cran-
on and Bishop Hendrix was one
clergyman who attended the historic
general conference- of 1S44 ;it New-
York, the last in which the southern
hurch was represented before Meth
odism was split over the question of
slavery. He is the Rev. Dr. Thomp- j
son H. Eandon. of Bordciitown, N. .1. i
Today's action does not unite the I
two branches of the Methodist de-
pinion nominations but continues the nego
tiations f r a reunion.
"The points of agreement are many; j
and the points of disagreement are!
Bishop Hendrix said.
It Is generally believed that the
the way of unification
dresses during the morning session,
bond issues became the real tonic only
when the afternoon session had prog
ressed thriugh several warm discus-
Mons ot legislative matters. i-resi-dent
Dwight B. Heard opened the dis
cussion by lolling upon representa -the
airei! tives of other counties to recount
of the Fourteenth infantry. Colonel R.
H. Wilson, commanding, went int:j
camp today and before night fall had
cleared the raesquitc brush from the
campsite, erected their tents and taken
si. me steps looking toward personal
comfort. ,
The Mexican situation showed no
new developments today, except that
Americans arriving from the north
COLUMBUS, N. M May 16.
i battery of artillery will form the ini
tial unit of the New Mexico National
Guard to be mustered into the I'nited
States service, it was announced here
tonight. Physical examination of the
men began today.
Truck service between Columbus and
the front again is practically normal.
reported increasing tension of feeling the redisposition of the expeditionary
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Six)
ho
method pusucd in that division, whet
.1 plan of two parallel roads had been j
fixed upon Imfore the bonds were
voted. He also mentioned an error i
Yuma county had fallen into, when it
authorized the construction of a mile
and a half of the highway toward 1
I'h enix. in the vicinity of the Gila .
river. The river had moved over and !
taken possession of that land, and :
no1, the road must be moved to the
Mesa. A point on which greit stress
was laid, was tin. light up by Allen T.
Bird of Santa Cuz. who from the full
ness of experience said "Your ad
visory committee shocld be given
SIBLEY'S TRBDPS HAVE CAUGHT
in iin-rii i iiminniinn rnnnr
Ui" ilu LM
views was clearly indicated by prom
ts he made at the conclusion of the
conferences, promises approved b
General Carranza, and which he is now
earning out with promptitude ami
I vigor, according to official reports
from army officers and consular offi-
' I -.cil in Mevicn It ii these tilrwlfrni
whfeh are interpreted as forming an
unwritten agreement. They include
the following:
That 10,000 picked troops under Gen
eral Trevino, the ablest of the Car
ranza field commanders occupy and
police the territory around Parral,
where tiiere a.e no American troops.
That an effective patrol be thrown
about the Mexican side of the Big
Bend region of the Texas border to
head off the Glenn Springs and Bo
qiiillas raiders; that every effort be
made tu liberate J. Deemer, the Amer
ican storekeeper, captured and car
ried away by the bandits, and
That no troops will be moved from
the forces in Sonora state through
I Pulpita pass to operate in the rear of
Ig-
neral Pershing's force.
To Know Today Whether Must !:
Stand Trial for Treason
W . ..1.
'he prisoners shall be held foi
, v ill be given late tomorrow .
trial (
1 Republican A. P. Leased Wire
London, Maj i. sir Bote
' asemcnl and Daniel J. Uallcy, who l egal experts who are followin
for two days past have been under- the case expressed toniaht the o
going a prelimmaiv "xaminatain in that there Has some small doubt that
the Bow street police court on the Sir Roger and Bailey would reserve
charge of high treason in connection their defense for the higher court.
witn tue recent insn revolt p;ooaoi rnus far, counsl for the prisoners ha i
ii. i . . . . " ...... ...ui .i , . .
v. hi K.un in in. u i oo i. uviiiri me nil. ii.ii.eii er ie.v questions m cross ex
be placed on trial lor tneir lives in animation apparently being satisfied obstacles in
.. ..... . .ou.i. ... ,e. inings lane tneir own course i have been overcome and that two
rre attorneys for the crown vir- nuring the preliminaries. Neither 1 years hence the general conference
tua'ly concluded the introduction of Casement no- Hailey has appeared of the Methodist church South, will
testimony today and unless the de- much worried over the case. Sir Roger accept the plan for reunion which the
'ense has some surprise in store, it is in particular maintaining notable self northern church hopes to bring lo fi-
i iievco ine owsrwiK wu c coin imiet. t possession and cheerfulness lhe great- I nal fulfilment
and the magistrate's decision whether or ;ar; of the time. j eaoe in 1920,
'iier.il confer-
(Continued on Page Three)
0
Caplan Jury is
Unable to Agree
Is Discharged
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I.OS ANGELES, May 16. David
Carhufs trial for murder in connec
tion with the destruction of the Los
Angeles Times building, ended today
when the jury repotted hopeless dis
agreement and was discharged. Tin
jury had been out 72 hours.
Jurors said the vote was seven for
conviction and five for acquittal. The
trial lasted a month and a day.
Immediately after discharging the
iury from further service. Judge
Frank K Willis, in superior court,
iipon motion of the prosecution, set
June 15 as the date for motions to
re-set the case for trial,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MARATHON, Tex.. May 16 Colonel
Sible and troops of the Fourteenth
cavalry, bringing Up the rear of the
second punitive expedition, have
caught ui. with Major Langhorne.
whose two troops of the Eighth cav
alry were leading the way into Mex-
iuto Mexico a short distance east of
Presidio.
A detachment ..f the Fourteenth
cavalry, accompanied by rangers, was
sent from bevc to intercept the band,
'providing it had not yet crossed the
river, or to discover where it may
have crossed. The matter was also
taken up with the commandant of
j ico and have halted, according to in- i the Mexican garrison at Ojinaga. It
formation brought here last night. . is expected be will detail sold'crs to
j The expeditionary column has tray- j take up the trail of Mexicans.
I eled eighty miles into the interior in "
its object of rescuing from Mexican
I bandits th" American ram
I Jesse Deemer. John Wood
Ballsworth and Monroe Payre. Noth
in-; has been heard from these men
' since the bandits took them into
Mexico.
A rumor was current yesterday that
Major Langhi rne's troops engaged in
a brush with bandits and that one
i:iericau trooper was wounded, but
the report iacks confirmation.
While General Scott, for his part,
made no piomises as to withdrawal,
and very clearly stated to General
Obregon that United States troops
would stay in Mexico until Cananz:.
forces had fully demonstrated their
ability to handle the bandit situation
assurances were given that American
troops would not operate in parts
where Carranza forces were active.
This will be done to avoid the possi
bility of flashes, and for the same
reason no attempt to co-operate the
(Continued on Page Three)
zfSalazar and " Army " of Three
Raid Santa Domingo Ranch
Bandits Stef.i Horses
PRESIDIO. Tex.. May 16. A
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j to a member of General Bell's staff.
El. PASO, Tex.. May IC General I said t';at the army of General Sala
Jose Salazar, a former Orozeo chief zar small as it was, was far from
who fled from EI Paso across the being tlassed as able bodied. One of
! Mexican line some weeks ago with the the Salazaristas possessed only one
1 avowed purpose of starting a revolu- ! eye another was a cripple and the
band tion of 'his own, last Sunday night third deaf and dumb. After seizing
thought to be composed of Mexicans,
stole ten head of horses from Poole's
ranch, eleven miles east of Shatter.
Texas about thirty miles from here
en lasl Sunday night. Texas rangers
followed the trail far enough to as
certain that the stolen horses wer
I eing taken south, probably crossing
attacked the banto Domingo ranch, i the flour in '. ranch house, the reve
thirty miles east of Ojo Calient Chi - i lutionists took to flight,
huahua. with a force of three men. j It was reported through Mexican
and stole several bags of flour, ac-I sources last week that General Sala
rording to a report brought to El zar had notified General Gutierrez.
Paso today oy an American working j commander of the constitutionalist
at Santo Domingo. j forces in Chihuahua that he was wil-
The ranchman, who told the news ling to consider terms of surrender,
