1
J
THE LEDGER In rtrtiMatoff
; medium thnt brings remits. Onr
rale nro consistent nlth clrcn. J
lulliin. Ilonki open to Inspection,
.J.
4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4
,! Wfdnmjr Flr and- OooK 4
! j j j j j j
"AXKLr KKIVJILtCAS'ltT
fiAILT rVMLIC J.lWilliR- JIM
MAY8VILLE, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1910.
ONE COPY-ONE CENT.
7"
A-
INSURE YOUR
AUTOMOBILES
WITH
MARSHALL & HALL
206 Court Street Phone 177
-r.
WONDERFUL AFFECTS IN
WALL 1'APEB
aro now bolng shown by us.
Our stock coraprlscB heavy
Japanoso lcathora and me
tallic effects with lacquered
finish. Appropriate for din
ing rooms, halls, vestibules,
etc. We also havo quality
paper in wide assortment ot
good styles and colors. It
certainly will be worth your
while to visit our store.
HENDRICKSON'S
Wall Paper Paints Rugs
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
G-ood Order For
Spring
Parts and
plies
Gars For
Sup-Hire
GOODYEAR
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rlio-Cuti by- the No-Rta-Cnt feature.
BlowouU by Iho "On-Alt" cure.
LoaiTrrda liv ninny robber rlvcH.
Iruecurilr by I'M braided i-Uno wire
Punctures and Skidding by tlio double-
thick AU-woaiiwr ireaa.
THE DOOIS.S IX YOUJt HOME
can ho as handsome as you choose
wi.'ipiit goiiu id any groat expcp.Be.
V . show :i variety of mill made doors
in various designs and flnlshes, the
prices for which will astonish you by
their moderation. In fact you couldn't
buy the plainest handmade door far
Ihss money. If ours cost no more why
not havo them?
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner LlmcMoue and Sccoud Streets.
IMmlif r.10.
V A. llH.aiiirliHii. L. II. liehait
KENTUCKYJEDERATION
Of Ionian's Clubs llrtrlns Twenty.
Second Annual Meeting Here
Today.
HEM) TO flllANl) .IIUY
Orant rimmbcrs. colored. wn trlmi
'before before I'ollce Judgo John h.
vmiaKer Tuesday afternoon on a
charge of cutting and wounding nn
other with Intent to hill, lie wns held
over to the Grand Jury and his bond
was placed nt $300, In default of
which ho wns committed to Jail.
Tho twenty-second annual meeting
of tho Kentucky Federation of Wo-j
...n.'M rVtt.f.n liAnlna n llirnfl itflVU aftC'
slon hero today. Each Incoming train' reflection on nniicr, looks
brines In moro delegates, who nre met 00(I- " nw n e NIp.
at the depots by tho Reception Coin- flft iii"rrr
Tho' program Includes many of the UtltA I 111 I til CO I !
most prominent speakers of the stnte ,
and tho women are expecting a fenit .... .,
of good things Intellectually. sl,u,vn ' i,,,lc liiKH-.Uany Con.
Today's program follows: i wrslmit Last Mglif. 1
Afternoon, O'clock, First l'rrsl))lri-, ,
lail ( Mlirell lnHHlhln till) must I.Hllinolnollr. .nr..
Pcf,trat.,on:u 1. lcu ot 1,10 Veuo11 Meeting wna heldi
1. What Is tho most Interesllng work ,.l8t ,Kht when bclwccn irco ,,
your Club Is doing nt tho present? fol1. Jumilml daidrcn from tho pub-
2. Vlint arc tho Cluba nsklmr of the gcho08 tt0re pra8t.llt- A pai.a('0 of
Federation? umin inn.rin utnr,..,i t,-.,n, .1... mi. 1
3. How to Interest young girls In the hjIl0'ol nldnK ullll mrciicil t0 lll0
ATTEXTIOX AUTOMOIIILE OW.VEIIS
As a part of the entcrnlnment for
tho State Convention of Federated Wo
men's Club, nnd wnntlng to sco tho
beautiful country in nnd around M.iva.
vine, wo want to respectfully urge, nil
ownors of automobiles to lend us their
assistance In providing enrs for n
short trip consuming about one hour
on Thursday afternoon of this week,
While thoro Is a committee out secur
ing Iho names of thosu who will nut
their enrs Into this trip, wo would llko
to urge nil nutomobllo owners to vol
unteer their services in this event by
cnlllng phono 62 nnd advising their
name, mid tho capacity of their car.
All cars for this trip Bhould lino up Miss llessle Osborne has returned Mrs. Joseph Kins hag rctiirnod fa
headed West from tho First Presbyter- hrr home In Lexington, Ky after her homo In Covington, Ky after a
lan Church East on Third street, ata visit with relative and friends In lslt with Mrs. Thomas Hoycc of Kast
STRAWBERRIES
Arc coming in fine now. Let us have your ordor for
the best in this market.
Also
The best lot of Vegetables handled by any one in
Maysvillc.
I
S Dinger Bras.,
1D7 W. Becand St. E
Fhano 2D. 5
IMMIlMIIHHMMimW
Clubs?
Orowoi-8 whero those front the Fifth
G. City Waste Disposal ............ Iltl Sxl(l Wnr,,H wcru , waltliiK. A
;, V,TB- r . Z" ,2 B mni-cli through the building
Meeting of Executlvo Committee bought these young people to thu beuts
, , ,..fEV. .1 . -rt reserved for them. Class yells nnd
Invlslblo Peril Wnshlngtnn Theater-- piUrlotc aongs worc n,iK0(1 wlth
mrs. ij.ee jiuriiiiuii i. considerable spirit. Superintendent
Eicnlng, 8 O'clorl , ....Mn,.,,,. .,mL-.i l i. .. r... 1
Formal Opening of the Tr-on'v-seeniid lon.fcrllB Ia, BlaU!(J lllut .... WI1H ,..,,.
Annual Meeting or t ie Koiunr-Kv to 8CU tll(J tmc w,lo.wo Were Mot
Fc.leratlon of Womnn s Cliilw. Cnll U,U11,K , m. .ieiioininailoiml lines to
to Order by President
iu un.i . Ilt.cp s ipa,. ji,. tiiought the Ini-
invocaiion ...... iu-v. juiiii i...... uui portant tiling today was character.
.UUOJVj (i, i,nilll.r In Whlcll thn nlill.lpnn
Sing, Smile. Slumber... Oounod Krec(e(, 1.1.,. sll0W8 .,. ,..., ..,- nf
. , i . thu schools toward him. Many of the
Violin Ohllgnto. Miss I.ulu Hates minlini-ii of il. dtv n,.. i,M
Organ-Scherzoso In n Minor lt! .,.,,,- ...,,. ,.,..., ',, ,..H
Mr" i t rH reBrcteil that all could not be given a
Miss N'ollle G. Wlnrnid
Danville Woman's Club
Address of Welcome
Mrs. George Iongnccker. President
Maysvillc Woman's Club.
Ilesponso
Mrs. W. T. I-afferty, First Vice-Presi
dent of K. F. W. r.
Iteport of Civil Service Itcfonii De
partment.
Address
Mrs. Frederick II. Colo, of Omaha,
Nebraska,
General Federation Chairman
Nominating ballots distributed
Adjournment
part In the service,
Mr. Ycuoll, the evangelist found It
neccssnry to direct his attention to
tho younger people at times but in
tho main Ills address was to tho older
pupils and persons present. He saw
as ho began the invitation that thoro
was a desire on tho part of some of
tho pupils to do some personal work
among their friends mid class mates
and ho therefore prolonged the invltn
. tlon. There were twenty-two who re
'spomled. These expressed themselves
jas desiring to unite with different
churches in tho city.
4:15 Thursday afternoon. Wo want! this city.
to urge that everybody give their at
tention to this matter so that we will
have a rousing llnc-uti of cars and
prove to our visitors how the loyal
Mnysvlllc people can co-opcrato to cn-
lonam me visitors to our city. Don't R
stand hack and wait for an Invitation K
to pui your car on the line, but plcnsc K
cnll tho Chamber of Commerco Odlce IS
and ."DO IT NOW FOIt MAYSVILLB." 5
THOMAS P. UOONE.
Secretary and Manager. 3
1 2
At tho reception, given by Mrs. '2
James III ley Tuesday afternoon music n
was furnished by the Edison Diamond &
Dire Phonograph. This Instrument -was
Ejected because of Its natural-H
tones. J T. Kackloy Is agent. It
Second street,
Nothing Nicer far a
Eraduatinn Present
" Than a Grind
Fountain Fen
See Dur Line. All Prices.
M
1
m
M
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY S
n
U. Wattle Jones of Ashland Is vls
Itiiu. friends In this c 1 1 y .
The Moysvlllo Itegulars Haso Ilallf Mr. L. T. Martin of Mt. Gllead, last
Team will open the season at Ripley. week purchased from the Central Gnr
Ohlo. Sunday age a new Ford Touring carv
THE HOME OF QUALITY CLOTHES
A ImnnHriil vlntv tf V.ukt.ilir. , i
Reception In honor of Stnte Federation j , Klvon , lnovln pic,iri!,'t()
, v..... ... j nil- inn-rest ami profit or the otingur
m ..... I nri.votit Timet ulnt ..... o...l'
miis. MrmtAY iirniiAHi) to visit- ";,,,",", "
little longer than
crowd of nearly
a thousand stayed to tho close. One
IS. MI'IIHAY lirnilAIM) TO VISIT; ,.' "Viod c
AIHia Whfch usual, but the great
. fl t III UtO'i till bt'i frul ti
Mrs. Murray Hubbard of Atlanta.
will be with her parents. Mr. and Mrs. r ' "&'rT "'v J, u Z . "u
Abncr Herd during the Federation, v.a ..Somo whpn Q V(;,co s ,
meeting. Mrs. Hubbard Is am itor of wonlR wpn w , , f
the Kentucky Federation of Women s v..i,nii
Clubs nnd Vice Campaign Chnrrmun of .,.,. .... ...ni,,., .,., ..Tl,
the Kentucky Equal Rights Assocla- l)ov wh(lt ,.rcacllc8. ,t
tlon. Her work nt Frankfort during ...... ...,,, ... ,, , ,
the last session of the General Assem- ovalIKC8t doc8 belloVt. ,,,
bly called forth tho commendation dcv Tno t , b , '
and praise of veterans In tho Suffrage en-tlilrty
cause. Mrs. Hubbard wns among the!
loremosi ot tnc suuragu worm-ra in
Kentucky and her removal to Atlanta 1
Is greatly regretted by her colleagues
In this State. Hut they aro comforted I
with tho thought that tho cause of I
Woman Suffrage In Georgia will bcl
greatly advanced by Mrs. Hubbard's
residence in that State.
you need some new clothes and want a stylish suit at
moderate price and must have material that's sure to
wear together with a good selection of patterns to choose
from -and you've decided to pay from $15 to $30, but you
must itisin on it being better than other makes at the same
pricecome in at once and trv on some of our new models.
You'll gn away with a new suit and a new knowledge of
value.
3D. IHO XXlSrC3-3ER. &, CO.
S
For Sale
Ford Roadster
In First Class Condition
New Tires
Thoroughly Overhauled
$240
METHODIST CHURCHES
AGREE TO UNITE
General Methodist Conference In
dorses UnlllcHilon Plans Way
I'tucd For Final Action Hy
Southern Conference.
TO JtECEIVE YISITOHS
MIKE BROWN
'"THE SQUARE DEAL MlV"
O.N ACCOUM' OF THE VEHY KlUIt l'JUCB AT fllESEMT, WE HAVE
LIMITED THE l'KEMIUMS TO THK V.IHIOUB 1'IECES WE HAYE IN
STOCK.
WE-ABE, JtECKlVLVd DAILY THK YEKY MUEST
'eHMxva to raws. '
STK-IWJJKMKIEB
Pkint 48.
Saratoga, Springs, N. Y May 16
The imincatlcm of tho Methodist Epis
copal church and the Methodist Epis
copal Church South was Indorsed al
most unanimously by the Methodist
General Conference today. The con
ference adopted the report of tho Com
mittee on Unification which provides
for further negotiations with the
Southern church, paving tho way for
final action by tho general conference
of tho Sonuthcm church in 1918 nnd
by tliQ Northern church's general con
ference iu 1020.
Tho report recommends the amalga
mation of tho branches of American
Methodism with tho general confer
ence as the supremo governing body
of the church and with separate con
ferences and episcopal supervision for
tho negro churches. Tho report was
adopted amid scenes of unbounded en
thusiasm. Only one speech was made
tn fnvnr nf tbn nnllnn nnil linnn In
nnnnaltlnn. Rev John P. Gouehor liecopilon tommittce or tlio
' ' T.-.. .I.a.lf.n Tl ' . rt,..l. ...1.1,.
tirfvo ilont omor lim nf rinnnlinr nl olr uuci aiiuu ui iiwiiiuiiu liuum kiiiuii
,....... - '-o-'
nnltimorc. Ma., In moving tho adop
tion ot tho report, emphasized tho fact
that tho proposed amalgamation would
bo a federated union that would pro
tect all tho varied Intorests just as tho
Fedora 1 Oovornmont protects tlio in
terests of the separate States, but In
the coso of Federated oMthodism, tho
world and not the nation would be un
der ecumenical control.
At tho cnll for affirmative votes, vir
tually the entiro convention rose, and
when tho opposition was called for,
only 0110 or two scattered dologates
Btood up. Renowod cheering and ap
plauso greeted tho announcement that
tho report had boon adopted, nnd as
Ilishop B. R Ilendrlx ot tho Methodist
Episcopal Church South stepped to
tho speaker's desk nnd clasped hands
with Ilishop Cranston, tho presiding
officer, the convention spontaneously
bogan singing "Pralso God from
Whom All niesslngs Flow" nnd follow
ed with "nest Ho Tlo That Hinds."
Illehop Cranston was grently affect
ed by the demonstration. Wiping
away tho tears that streamed down his
face, lie said: "This is tho supremo
moment of my life. You might havo
continued mo in a 11 effectlvo rotation
for eight years long if you had so
willed, but you could not have given
mo tho gratification of soul I feel to
day." Ilishop Houdrlx said: "As senior
bishop of American Mothodlsm, I be
llovo that by our action today wo
have accomplished mora for the good
of mankind, thanreulted from the
Have You Profited
By our sale of Women's and Misses' Suits? Don't wait until the selection is limited, come in today
while ample varioty awaits you. Prices $1 1.25 to $26.25.
Lovely New Cotton. Dress Goods
Many new and beautiful dress cottons have made their appearance during the past week. Indeed, the
variety is greater than ever before and prices are no higher than in previous seasons, notwithstanding that
all cotton dress goods have been advanced by the manufacturers for future delivery. This, in itself, con
stitutes a good reason for buying now.
It is easy to say we have the greatest stock of cotton dress goods ever shown in Maysvillc but it would
be difficult to prove it, if facts didn't support the claim. Shop everywhere, shop thoroughly, then come here
end make your own decision.
Voile, organdy, marquisette, chiffon cloth, 40 and 42 inches wide, 25c to 50c yard. A wonderful
Assortment.
Cheaper wash goods, pretty and serviceable, 10c and 15c.
Y "jr r y TCT " "8"'
vim JL oAae t( wS.
St-;
rtt
916
begins a three days' session hero to
day, has selected the following gon-
tlcmen to meet tho tralus, reccivo tlio James 11
visitors nnd conduct thorn to their 'Kirk. Thomas
boarding houses 'George L. Devine.
,t .1-. fl ri...,i...lrw. ft 1.4 1-W..!I, I r. K ri..,..tlltnn Cl,A.tnnn AvM
(. IV W. V Wll(lllllll-l 'V L-., Civil 111!, , li. V Ulllllll HV.V Ulll I1IUI ...,
.Ill mi. u II 1 1 n 1 1 Vnon llpmlir I' B f' V lnn,u -iml Mnvnr T WpslfV
P. Dooiio and Dr I Lee.
"W B L C O M E
Federation of Women's Clubs
Come in and make yourself at home at Maysville's Mammoth Dry
Goods Store. This is the store where the Federation of Women of
Mason and surrounding Counties do their shopping.
As a compliment to the ladies we are offering some radical reduc
tions on Ladies and Misses Tailored Suits this week. Also some
special prices on some Fisk's Tailored Hats.
1
JS - T
Si
00
fjattioontiamioga.
,y.v
.,1
