Chick ash a Daily Expres
Newt By Wire Daily
from the United Pren
Association.
VOLUME SEVENTEEN.
CHICKASHA. OKLAHOMA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1916.
NUMBER 113
You will Find All the
Local New Every Day
; in the Daily Express. j
BANQUET IS
SERVED TO
150 GUESTS
President Austin Entertains OcM Fellows'
and Visiting Ladies at College;
Fine Flow of Oratory Follows
Superb "Feed"
DEPARTMENTS OF
INSTITUTION VISITED
A. Rose Officiates as Toastmaster; All
Speakers Sing Praises of 0; C. W.;
Judge Robertson Gives Strong
Approval to School
President Austin of the Oklahoma
College for Women boosted his al
ready high batting average as an en
tertainer when he played the part of
host at a banquet which he tendered
Tuesday evening to the Odd Fellowi
and their ladies who were attending 1
the grand encampment here. Plates 811 end IaHt "'e'1' wnen tllB niembers
were provided for 160 guests and!0' tne order, with satisfied gastrono
there were no vacant places at the J "! '""Kings, following the reception
tables.
street cars conveyed the visitors to
n. . ...
the college, leaving the down-town
district at 6 p. m. Mr. Austin greeted
his guests on their arrival and when ,
they had gathered In the auditorium '
of the Administration building, be Dody- . '
gave them an informal talk, thorough-1 l" regular order the following offi
iy explaining 'the purposes and work'cerB ele loted: R. IF. Scofield
of the -Institution, following which
came a "personally conducted" tour
of Investigation of all departments of h: H Kerr' Enid, grand senior war
the school. Class rooms, laboratoj de: w- E. Ward, Antlers, grand W
dles, library, domestic science and
fine arts rooms all were Included In
tho trip, and then the Invaders ad- grand treasurer; L. W. Wiley, Roose
vanced upon Nellie Sparks hall where, VBlt- grand marshal; Dr. C. P.
the president told them, at the sound Hughes, Lawton, grand inside senti
of a bell, they were to proceed to-ne,i ,l- E- Knelsley, Checotalj, grand
"play the game." outside guard; W. A. Madara, Perry,
At 7, o'clock the feasting began af- trustee for three years; Ed Fishback,
tor Mr. Austin had returned thanks Hartlesviile, trustee one year,
to tho Deity. Early in the action the i Wires of regret were received and
college quartet was Introduced and pal frm number of grand offi
delighted the crowd with a splendid 'ers tla were unable to'attend this
vocal number. The menu, skilfully ' meeting ot the grand encampment,
prepared and served by young ladies. Among those wiring regrets were E.
was sufficient to satisfy the demands Norvelle, of Wynnewood, grand
of even the most exacting. One of master; Den F. LaFayette of Chcco
the visitors couldn't wait till the la; w- M- Elmore, past grand palri-speech-making
program was begun, ri'h. f'OHS- "i others. W. M. Ed
but voluntarily arose to declare that ' monson is one of the oldest members
ho had dined over a greater pa"rt of ' of, the order iu Oklahoma. In his wire
the country "but nowhere had he seen h stated that this is the first en
such a fine banquet as the college was ' eafnpment be hus failed to attend In
giving. i twenty years and greatly regretted
J. A. Rose, of this city, past grand ' U'""B health prevented his attend
master of the order or Odd Fellows, ' nve.
presided as toastmaster. Mr. Rose Among the prominent members ot
Introduced the college as the chief ( ll,e order present at the encampment
topic of conversation and the rest of whose names did not appear on the
the speakers, for the ruost part, stuck , Published " yesterday are Rev.
to the text. From President Austin. Jnies J. H. Reedy, of Tulsa, and J.
who opened, to Judge J. B. A. Rob- Montforte, past grand partiarch,
ertson, who closed the argument, there ai"0 ot Tulsa.
w as "one clear note In divers strains" At the executive business meeting
and that note was "college, college, ' this afternoon all resolutions intro
college." duced at the last grand encampment
Judge Robertson spoke at some'nd carried over for action to the
length regarding the school, saying present encampment, were again
that he had placed his daughter here i passed. This was done in order that
as a student after satisfying himself the Sovereign Grand lodge, which will
that she would receive the protec- meet In September, may complete all
tion that he desired for her and that
she would have educational advantag
es equal to the best. Careful inquiry
Into the work of the school made
since his daughter became a student,
here conviiK-ed him that he made no
mistake. Judge Robertson said he
favored the most liberal appropria
tions .for the development of the O.
C. W.
Brief talks were made by the fol
lowing: Grand Patriarch Frank
Plato for
grand encampment.
Past Grand Patriarch H. N. Pope,
of Lawton.
Grand Secretary G. W. Bruce of
Gulhrio. for grand lodge.:
Noble Grand B, B. Barefoot for sub
ordinate lodges.
Past Grand Representative Clar
ence Lyons of Oklahoma City.
Past Grand Representative William
Noble of McAlester.
Grand High Priest R. N. Scofield,
of Muskogee.
Past Grand Representative J. C.
Monforte, of Tulsa.
PaBt Grand Patriarch W. R. Fry of
Perry. ' ,
Mayor Coffman was called upon
for a speech but was not present. Mr.
Barefoo'., who was pressed into
. vice In his place, made an impromptu
address which fully, measured Up to
tli a mayor's high standard of elo-
quo nee.
A p'easing part of the program was
a humorous reading given by Miss
Olive Robertson, who was compelle
to respond to an encore. A ununi
r.ious vote or thanks was given to
Provident Austin and the young ladies
b the fcuests. The program ended at
8:?.. o'clock.
BUSINESS
SESSIONS
ARE HELD
Crand Encampment of Odd Fellows Elects
Officers; Messages of Regret Received;
Guthrie is Chosen as Next
Meeting Place r 1
The grand encampment of OklahO'
ma Odd Fellows have finished up all
play and all sight seeing and all de
gree work, and are getting down to
work, hard work, and plenty of It, to
day.
The "enjoyment" sessions came to
al me u. j. w., assemoiea hi me uuu
r- 1 1 .. i. 1 1 , . 1 .... ....... i
"uu"" u" "u "ciw
, boe9 of Kood cigars.
Tlli8 niorning the election of grand
officers for the ensuing year occupied
tlie greater part of the time of the
Muskogee, grand patriarch; C. F.
Kncdler, Kaw City, grand high priest;
or warden; H. A. Herwig, Gutbric,
grand scribe; C. P. Arnold. Blackwell,
work of remodeling the taws of the
organization before the resolutions re
ceive the final consideration.
Among those upon whom was con
ferred the Royal Purple degree yes
terday were James F. Dillon, J. R.
Riley, J. L. Ketchell, Geo. F. Martin,
W. G. Feeks, John Pritchett, E. B.
Spreisterbach, Oscar Simpson, all of
Chickasha, and F. D. Clarke, of Still
water. It was voted to hold the next meet-
;lg of the Encampment at Guthrie.
v vuuiuiiiicru ci.ii t itiiiniiiiD
was appointed by the grand patriarch
to confer with the committeee of five
members appointed by the. Sovereign
Grand Lodge In regard to the needs
and welfare of the Encampment
branch of the order, and relative to
the needs and upbuilding of this
branch. The committee was compos
ed of the following: G. W. Bruce,
grand secretary; W. R. Fry, P. G. P.;
R. A. Brown, P. D. C; Fred L.
Strough. P. G. P.; A. S. J. Shaw. G.
R. P.; H. A. Herwig, G. S.; H. N.'
Pope. P. G. P.; L. H. Kerr, G. J. W.;
Logan Hawkins. G. W.; J C. Mon
forte. P. G. P.; J. J. Griffith, P. G. P.
The officers of the Grand Encamp
ment of Odd Fellows, adjourning to-
ser-'day, has conferred the Decoration of
SOCIETIES
0FC.H.S.
IN CONTEST
Athenians Go Strong in First Events but
Lose to Philomath-ans when Debate
is Staged; Final Score
' 1 40 to 30
LOVING CUP REWARD
OF WINNING SIDE
Essays, Stories, Orations, .Piano" Solos
and Arguments are Grounds for
Battle; Patrons Pack Audito
rium of High School
The inter-society contest held last
night in the high school auditorium
resulted in a victory for th Philoma
theans, by a score of 40 to 30.
The contest consisted of original
essays, stories and orations, piano
solos and readings, and a debate. The
winner In each event received ten
points, except in the debate, which
counted twenty, making the total
number of points 70.
uiatre woodson, Athenian, won
over Dewey Neal, Philomathean, with
an original essay. Misses Marjotie
Cochran, Athenian, and Gladys Wil
son, Phiiomatbean, were the musical
contestants, with Miss Wilson win
ning. In presenting original stories,
Miss Nellie 'Wendt, Philomathean,
won over Miss Esther Williams,
Athenian, and in delivering original
orations, Miss Clarice Tatraan, Athen-
ion, won over Norman Duncan. Philo
mathean. In the reading contest.
Misses Zullii Stoddard, Athenian, and
Thelma Rose, Philomathean, were op
ponents, Miss Stoddard winning. "
Up to the time of the debate the
score stood 30 to 2u in favor of the
Athenians, and the excitement was
intense. The question chosen was.
Resolved, That the Philippines
hould be granted their independence
In four years," with HarVy Hulen and
Miss Hallie Grimsley, Athenians, on
the affirmative, and" Miss Lucile West-
fall, and Joe McClelland. Philoma-
theans, taking the negative side. The
judges' decision was rendered in- fa.
or of the negative, giving the con
test as a whole to the Philomatheans.
This society was then presented b
loving cup by the members' of .last
ear's debating team.
Misses Carson, Wylie and Tully
acted as musical judges, Miss O'Neill
as judge, in the reading contest, and
Rev. G. Lyle Smith and Misses Wheel
er and O'Neill were the judges for
the debate and other contests.
Misses Graham and Byers were fac-
Ity advisers for the Philomatheans
nd Miss Newby and Mr. Reeds for
the Athenians.
The auditorium was packed with
enthusiastic listeners, during the spir
ited contest.
CRUISER IN
HEAVY GALE
By United Presa,
Boston, May 17. The U. S. cruiser
San Francisco was driven ashore on
the Nantuckt shoals by a gale this
morning.
The warship was floated unassisted
a few hours later. Reports concern
ing dead and injured, received early
in the day, proved to erroneous.
WEATHER FORECAST.
For Oklahoma, ,
Toufght, generally- fair;
Thursday, fair, warmer.
Local Temperature.
"buring 24 hours ending 8
a. m. today:
Maximum, 7S; minimum, 30.
Chivalry upon the following ladies,
wives of patriarchy and chevaliers.
Mesdames Avis Fry and Maggie Kite,
of Perry; Mesdames Fannie Hubbard.
Bertha Holland, Stella Hollingsworth,
all of Chickasha; Mrs. Mollie Boyer,
Sapulpa; Mrs. Ophelia WeRter, Bur
neyvllle; Mrs. Viola Crisler, McAles
ter: Mrs. Helen Taccart. Tulsa.
AMERICAN TRENCHES AT BOCA GRANDE
p.
,
These trenches at Buca Grande,
negro troops,.
DIPLOMAS
ARE. SENT
TO PUPILS
Eighth Graders in Rural Schools Receive
m Tokens of Progress; Results of
Second Evaminatioo Will
Be Known Soon
Ninety-seven diplomas for those
who successfully passed the first
eighth grade examination some weeks
oko, were received iu the office of
the county superintendent this morn
ing and will be at once mailed out to
rural schooypupils. '
The diplomas, numerically, are di- j
videcj as follows among the different '
schools of Grady county: Chicka
sha.'lO; Rush Springs, 12; Minco,' 4;
Pocasset, 10; Alex, f Acme, 2; Nin
nekah, 5; Tuttle, lfe; Verden, 12; Ag
awam, I; Bailey, 2; Bridge Creek, 1;
Mlddleburg,. 1; Rocky Ford, 1; Brad
ley, 5; Verden, 3; Marlow, 3. (The
diplomas, going to Marlow are for
Grady county pupils, living In Grady
county, attending the count' schools,
but having their post office address
at Marlow.)
Superintendent Shepard stated this
niorning that the work of grading the
papers of the last eighth grade exam
ination, conducted here last week,
was nearing completion ;that he had
six teachers aiding in grading the pa-
pers and that the papers, as soon as
the work of grading shall be complet
ed, will be forwarded" to the stale
board of education for final action
and the diplomas for the successful
ones returned.
There are, iu round numbers, 400
papers in the last examination, each
paper being divided into sixteen purts,
or subjects, aud each subject carry
ing ten questions, making a total of
6,400 questions and answers to be
considered by the local board now
working on the papers.
The teachers who f re passing upon
the papers stated this morning that
many of the pupils handled their ex
aminations carefully, while some of
the others showed an unfortunate
amount ot carelessness interspersed
with their questions. This careless
ness might, it was stated, keep some
from passing who would otherwise be
entitled to diplomas.
FRED WARNER IN JAIL.
Fred Warner was arrested yester
day afternoon by Sheriff Bailey on
charges of having transported liquor
from Verden to Chickasha. Deputy
Castleman and County Attorney Ven
able took the prisoner to Verden,
where the railway agent identified
him as the man who had receipted for
certain express packages later found
in Warner's possession and' Baid to
have contained Intoxicants.
CADDO COMMISSIONER HERE.
M. F. Ottmayer, one -of the commis
sioners of Caddo county, was a visi
tor In Chickasha yesterday. Com
missioner Ottmayer was entertained,
while here, and escorted about the
city and over some of the fine Grady
county, roads by Commissioner Jim
Robinson and Commissioner W. A.
Bryant.
'eft
1
Mexico, were dug and are occupied by
INVENTORY
FOR ARMY
AND NAVY
Colby in Charge of 'Large Territory in
State in Taking Census for Industrial
Preparedness; Work Starts
at Once
E. E. Colby, county highway engi
neer, is in receipt of a letter ot In
structions from Harold V. Bozell, of
Norman, chairman of the board of di
rectors for the state of Oklahoma of
the Organization for Industrial. Pre
paredness. Tha letter advises Mr. Colby that
the work of entering the field and be
ginning the actual making of com
plete Inventories of all manufactur
ing concerns. In the interest of the
naval consulting board in the matter
of "industrial preparedness," will now
begin.
Mr. Colby will have charge of a
large portion of thij work, embraced
by all that territory in the southwest
section of the state and bounded on
the east by the Rock Island railway.
This work is being done in order
that the army and the navy depart
ments may be advised of the equip
ment of every manufacturing estab
lishment of every kind in the United
States. The object is that, should it
become necessary, the different man
ufacturers of the country could be
called upon to turn their plants into
factories for making munitions of
war.
In this , connection President Wil
son has addressed a letter to every
business man in the United States in
which he bespeaks their "cordial co
operation in the patriotic service un
dertaken by the engineers and chem
ists of the country, . under the direc
tion ot the industrial preparedness
committee of the naval consulting
board of the United States."
The inventory to be returned to
the board, through the engineers will
be considered strictly confidential by
the government and will be used ex
clusively for the benefit of the war
and navy departments in the organi
zation of ail industrial resources for
the public service in national defense.
The American Society of Civil En
gineers, the American Institute of
Mining Engineers, the American So
ciety, of Mechanical Engineers, the
American Institute of Electrical En
gineers and the American Chemical
Society are all gratuitously assisting
the naval consulting board in the
matter. '
The idea leading to the securing of
the data originated with Lloyd
George, minister pf munitions of Eng
land. It is stated that when Lloyd
George became minister the supply
of available munitions was so low
that English gunners were being lim
ited to three aud four rounds of am
munition per day.
No sooner was Lloyd-George named
minister of munitions than he took
an "industrial census;" scarcely was
this census finished before the man
ufacturer was urged to utilize his
equipment for the army and navy.
In commenting upon this action up
on the minister's part the Richmond
News-Leader says: "The results in
some cases would have been amus
ing had they not been eloquent with
a peculiar heroism. A glazier began
to stamp out cartridge clips; a man
ufacturer of niUHic rolls used his
equipment to make guages; a concern
engaged before the war in the manu
acture of infants' food Is now deliver
ing thousands of plugs for shells; an
advertising agency is manufacturing
shell adapters; watch makers are ad
justing fuses; a manuacturer of bak
ing machinery has become an expert
contractor for 6-inch high explosive
sheila; a jeolry house is devoting
its attention exclusively to peri
scopes; a phonograph concern is
sending millions of delicate shell parts
to the assembling stations; a concern
which made nothing but sheep shear
ing machinery is turning out shell
cases; a cream separator company Is
at. work on shell primers while the
largest sewing machine manufactur
ing company in the kingdom la man
ufacturing guns."
RANCHER IS
RESCUED BY
SOLDIERS
Troops Dash Into Town, Surprising Mexi
cans; Chinese Merchants are Re
ported Slain by Bandits, Follow
ing Change of U.S. Base
By United Press.
Marathon, Tex., May 17. Ameri
can troops dashed into EI Pino, a
small town one hundred and twenty
five miles south of the border, sur
prising the Mexicans, who fled, and
rescuing Jesse E. Deemer, a rancher,
and Monroe Payne, a negro,, who
were captured in the Glenn Springs
raid by Mexicans. No fighting -ia re
ported, the Mexicans having abandon
ed) their prisoners In a precipitate
flight. The raiders had left the two
Americans with a Mexican family.
By Ignited Press.
Columbus, N. M.,May 17. Accord
ing to the report of truck drivers ar
riving here, bandit bands, apparently
awaiting the withdrawal of American
troops, slaughtered twelve Chinese
merchants at San Antonio, Mexico, as
soon as the advance base was with
drawn. Many natives have withdrawn
from here, fearing death or reprisal
for having aided tho Americans.
Soldiers arq shunning Casas Gran
des, near Dublin, on account of rumor
of ' outbreak of incipient typhus
plague. No expeditiouers are report
ed affected.
Won't Press Request.
By United Press
Washington, May 17. According to
the official view here. Carranza will
not press his request for withdrawal
of the U. S. troops for some time un
less popular demand compels him.
By the working agreement made by
Scott and Obregon, the withdrawal of
the troops as soon as banditry is
squelched is pledged.
SUNK WITH
AMERICANS
ONBOARD
By United Presa.
Washington, May 17 The Amer.
lean consul at La Rochelle, France,
has cabled that three Americans were
aboard the Canadian steamer, Eritria.
whicll has been sunk. It is reported
that the vessel struck a miue.
Replies to Peace Letter.
By United Prese.
Washington, May 17. It has been
learned that President Wilson has
dispatched a reply to the Pope's
peace letter. It is understood that
this reply was handed, to Monsignor
Bouseno on Monday.
Brief Sea Battle.
By United Press.
London. May 17. British destroy
ers and monitors yesterday fought a
short battle with German destroyers
off the Belgian coast, the Germans
withdrawing. There were no British
casualties.
TO WIDEN
SCOPE OF
SCHOOLS
In Letter to Boards and City Superintend;
ents, Wilson Lays Stress on Voca
tional Training and Teaching
of Thrift
"AGGIE" INSTRUCTION
IN SUMMER IS URGED
Suggests that Children Be Kept Busy c
Gardens During Juue, July and
August; Enid and Tulsa
Blaze Way
Oklahoma City, May 17. Stressing
the importance of vocational training
and thrift teaching and suggesting
that teachers of agriculture itt city;
schools be employed throughout tha
summer, State Supt. Wilson, in a let
ter addressed to all city superintend
ents and boards of education, writesi
as follows: ..
"Within the last few years, voctn
tional training has become entrenched
In the course of study offered by thei
public schools. Especially is . this
true in cities. One of the greateslj
problems in connection with our em
tire school system today Is the teach
ing of thrift. The introduction of vrx
cational instruction has helped a great
deal in this respect.
"In the older cities school saving
banks have been established, and a
a result the school children " hava
saved many thousands of dollars tha(
otherwise would have been spent M.
something of no particular value toj
the children or tor something; actm
ally detrimental. 11
"The schools ought to do their parC
in securing positions tor worthy boyst
and girls who have no one to assist
them in securing positions and who
must necessarily work during vaca
tion in order to earn money with
which to pay their expenses during
the next school year. The time will
come in a few years when the teach
ers in the schools will give especial
attention to securing positions for
worthy boys and girls who want work
during vacation.
"We have asked our schools this?
year to do something along the line!
of thrift teaching. Many have re
sponged. In some cases tho school
savings bank has been established.
In others clubs have been organized
and students have discussed the pious
for making money or spending money,
judiciously and have even made In
vestments. "In all high schools the subject of
agriculture is being taught not be
cause It is required by the constitu
tion and the statutes but because It is
the , one Industry upon -which, thisi
country depends for its prosperity
In discussing this subject in a number;
of cities during last winter I suggest
ed that the teacher of agriculture tit
the high school should be employed
for the full year and it given a vaca
tion it should be given during tha
months of December and January and!
that he should by all means be on.'
duty during the. months of June, July,
and August. Two cities, Enid and
Tulsa, are taking up this work this!
year. These agriculturalists will su
pervise school gardens, supervise thai
work done by boys on vacant lots and
truck patches, and look after the
trees, shrubbery and flowers on thai
school grounds. It is my candid opin
ion that every agricultural teacher1
ought to be employed by these schoolsi
during the summer months and thei
boys who want to make money should
be given a chance to cultivate vacant
lots and truck patches about thai
cities, thus making tho city more at
tractive, giving the boys employment
and a chance to make some moneys
The citizens of the town'should en
courage these boys to cultivate thei
vacant lots and truck patches and
should give them first consideration
when buying produce. In the event
more produce is raised than can'bcj
consumed a market should be secur
ed for it. In larger cities where there
are a great many boys to work and a
great deal of vacant property, if a
few enterprising citizens would sup
port the boys, they could establish a
(Continued on Page Two.).
' t
