\vn*ef
N
VOLUME XXXVII.
I
60YERN0R ATTENDS
ARMORY DEDICATION
BOOM OF 21 GUNS GREETING TO
CHIEF EXECUTIVE UPON
ARRIVAL
DEDICATION OF NEW ARMORY
LARGELY ATTENDED BY
LOCAL PEOPLE
As Governor L. A. A. Burnquist step
ped from the cars at the Northwestern
depot yesterday afternoon on his first
visit to the city as the chief executive
of the State of Minnesota the boom of
21 guns fired by a squad of Burg's
Battery was the city's official greeting.
This also opened the official dedication
of the new Armory of the local guard
companies delayed since last winter out
of respect to the memory of the late
Gov. Hammond. Gold braid was in
evidence and it is estimated that at
least 75 of the militia officers and those
interested in affairs military arrived
with the Governor. Others came earlier
in the day over the M. & St. L. and still
others, members of the National Guard
companies west on the Northwestern ar
rived later in the afternoon. All told
there were about a hundred strangers in
the city.
Governor Burnquist was taken to the
VDakota House where he received a
number of his personal and political
friends for a few minutes before depart
ing for the Armory where the dedicatory
exercises were held.
The program yesterday afternoon at
the Armory was largely attended by the
citizens generally. Previous to the time
set for the first number of the program
the structure was thrown open for the
inspection of the public, members of the
two infantry companies acting as guides
and explaining the uses each room is put
to. Everything was spick and span for
the occasion. „_
Beginning at 3 o'clock the following
program was carried out:
Selection by Second Regiment band.
Address of welcome by Mayor L. A.
Fritsche.
Mayor Fritsche also acted as the pre
siding officer for the afternoon and in
troduced Governor L. A. A. Burnquist,
who delivered the principal address of
the afternoon.
Song by Miss Frances Krook.
Address by General Fred B. Wood,
adjutant general of the State of Minne
sota.
Song by Edward Stoll.
Address by Gen. A. W. Wright of
Austin, brigade commander of the mili
tary forces of the state.
Selection by the band.
Last evening from 8 until 9 a recep
tion was held in honor of Governor
Burnquist, followed by a band concert
by the Second Regiment band from 9:30
until 10, at which time the grand mili
tary ball was opened.
SIGNING UP FOR WHITE WAY
TO DEPOTS
About $1,800.00 has been subscribed
thus far by the interested property
owners for the proposed "white way" to
the two railroad stations along Second
North and First South Streets. While
the committee expects to arrange for sev
eral hundred dollars more within a few
days, it is expected that the council
will be asked to make up a deficiency of
approximately $500.00, particularly in
view of the fact that city parks are lo
cated along both routes.
Both of the railroad companies could
afford to contribute very liberally to
the undertaking as a well illuminated
approach to the stations will be a great
convenience to travellers arriving or de
parting during the night. It has been
suggested that the railroad companies be
asked to extended the white way along
the depot grounds.
Otto Oswald of the New Ulm Steam
Laundry is seriously considering a new
I departure in the dry cleaning line by
providing a waiting room in his estab
lishment for people who want their
suits cleaned in a hurry. The idea came
to him as the result of an experiment made
upon an unsuspecting newspaperman
last week to whom he made the propo
sition of cleaning his suit before break
fast. The cleaner made good, delivering
the suit cleaned, pressed and packed
luff. within an hour and thirty minutes after
it had been taken from the house. The
best part of the transaction, from the
standpoint of the newspaperman, was
that he received a receipted bill for the
job in the morning's mail.
NEW ULM GIRL TAKES PART
IN TERCENTENARY.
The tercentenary of Shakespeare's death
was the occasion for a magnificent
pageant in Milwaukee last week. More
than 800 performers took part in a series
of tableaux, pantomimes, and proces
sions. The best of artistic and dramatic
skill worked together and made it appear
like a far-flung enchanted tapestry on
which were woven three pictures of
Shakespeare's life, and scenes from nine
of his plays, Henry V. Midsummer
Night's Dream, Merchant of Venice,
Twelfth Night, Julius Caesar, Hamlet,
Macbeth, As you like It, Tempest.
A New Ulm girl, Miss Esther Reim,
took part in the casket scene from the
Merchant of Venice. Miss Reim who
graduated from the New Ulm High
School last year, is now a student in the
National German-American Teachers'
Seminary, a normal school that has
gained a national reputation for training
teachers of German.
The Evening Wisconsin comments
thus: "Then appeared the stateliness
and color of Venice in her prime, when
the prince of Morocco and his train, the
prince of Arragon and his followers, the
good Bassanio and his friends, all came
wooing the fair Portia. The stage was
filled with a marvel of color, and the
scene was given in eloquent pantomime
by fifty students of the National Ger
man-American Teachers' Seminary. For
richness of understanding humor and for
deftness of presentation this was ex
ceeded by no other group."
MISS ESTHER REIM
ALL OBSTACLES REMOVED
Council Accepts Agreement With
Heating Corporattion And
Grants Franchise.
At an adjourned meeting last Thurs
day evening the city council by un
animous vote granted the New Ulm
Heating Company a franchise to operate
upon the streets and alleys of the city
and install a complete heating system
in connection with the electric light and
water works plant. Attorney Somsen
appeared for the company and G. A.
Ottomeyer and Ferd. Crone were persent
in their capacity as officers of the com
pany. Only a few minor changes were
made in the franchise as prepeard by the
city attorney and the attorney for the
corporation, finally being adopted as
published in full in another column of
this issue.
An agreement also was entered into
between the officers of the corporation
and the city, whereby the former agrees
to turn over to the city the entire plant
after its completion and operation at
cost and interest on the investment of
6 per cent per annum.
Only one bid for the construction of
sidewalks and crosswalks was received,
the bidder being Aug. Puhlmann, to
whom the contract was awarded. Cross
walks and sidewalks will be constructed
upon order of the city council where and
when needed.
The city clerk was instructed to ad
verise for bids for the furnishing of coal
for the municipal plant for the coming
year.
County Commissioner Graff appeared
before the council and stated that the
board of commissioners would make the
the necessary repairs on the Bentzin
bridge and pay for them out of the road
and bridge fund as required by the state
law. The street committee was instruct
ed to act jointly with a committee from
the board in deciding upon the repairs.
Upon request of Commossioiner Graff
the board was granted permission to
use the new street roller on the county
road between Sleepy Eye and Springfield
as soon as the roller is idle.
Carl Stone appeared before the council
and applied for the position of operator
of the street roller and he probably
will be engaged as such.
ANOTHER VICTIM
OF DEADLY RIFLE
YOUNG MAN OF WEST NEWTON
IS ACCIDENTALLY KILLED
ON FIELD.
DETAILS OF SHOOTING VEILED
IN MYSTERY AS NO ONE WAS
WITNESS.
Careless handling of firearms claimed
another victim last Thursday afternoon
on the farm of Mathias Walser of West
Newton, when the 18-year-old son was
accidentally shot and killed with a rifle
in his own hands. Although no one
actually witnessed the accident, it is
evident that the young man came to
his untimely death by the accidental
discharge of the rifle which he had taken
out to the field with him while discing.
The theory of suicide seems out of the
question, as there can be found no
reason for such an act, nor do the cir
cumstances point to a substantiation of
such a theory.
Young Walser had gone out to the
field shortly after dinner, taking his .22
rifle with him to shoot gophers which
are said to be numerous in that vicinity.
Shortly after 3 o'clock Mrs. John Volz,
whose farm adjoins the field Walser was
working in, saw the young man topple
from his seat and fall to the ground.
At the same time the horses started to
run away, but stopped after they had
gone a short distance. Mrs. Volz
hurried across the field to see what was
the matter and found young Walser un
conscious on the ground. Her first
thought was that the young man had
fainted, because there was no evidence
of an injury. When Mrs. Volz assisted
by her son started to carry the man to
their home, however, the wound was
noticed and the Walser family at once
notified by telephone of the tragedy. A
doctor was at once summoned but the
wounded man never regained conscious
ness, expiring about two hours after the
accident.
The time of the shooting is fixed at
about 3:30 by Mrs. Volz, as it was
nearly 4 o'clock when she telephoned the
Walser family. The bullet penetrated
the young man's breast a few inches be
low the heart and would have been fatal,
no matter how quickly medical aid
could have been summoned.
Benjamin Walser was born in West
Newton April 15, 1898. He was re
garded as an unusually bright boy of a
jovial disposition among a large circle of
friends and comrades of his neighbor
hood. After finishing the West Newton
rural schools the young man entered the
commercial department of St. Thomas'
College at St. Paul a year ago and had
intended to resume and complete his
course this year. He was a member of
the St. George Catholic congregation
and of the Young Men's Sodality of that
church.
He was a son of Mr. and Mrs. Mathias
Walser and besides his bereaved parents
leaves two brothers and three sisters:
Arthur, Florian, Estella and Eleanora,
still living at home and Mrs. Henry
Biebl of West Newton.
Largely attended funeral services were
held at the St. George Catholic church
Saturday morning at 10 o'clock and in
terment was made at the church ceme
tery.
The open season on dogs began last
Monday when, according to the state
law, all dogs found unmuzzled or un
licensed may be picked up by the dog
catcher. Dog licenses are now due and
payable. It is to be hoped New Ulm's
official dog catcher will keep his eyes
open for the dozens of useless pups that
roam the streets of this man's town.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1916.
New Ulm Armory, Dedicated Tuesday, May 16, 1916.
SWAN LAKE TO BE
BIG MUD PUDDLE
MECCA OF HUNTERS IN DUCK
SEASON DESIRED FOR FARM
LAND.
PROTEST WILL BE ENTERED AT
MEETING TO BE HELD AT
BRIGHTON.
Draining Swan Lake and destroying
the finest breeding ground of water fowl
in the state is to be started this summer
if plans of the farmers owning land ad
joining the lake are carried out. The
move has already gained considerable
proportions as at a meeting at the Brigh
ton school house Wednesday evening of
last week the Swan Lake Drainage Asso
ciation was formed and the initial steps
taken to drain the lake by means of digging
an outlet ditch to the Minnesota River.
While the draining of the lake would
mean the reclamation of about 26 sections
of land, which would be divided among
the farmers whose lands adjoin the lake
there is going to be opposition to the
scheme not only by other land owners
in the vicinity of the lake, but from the
sportsmen throughout the state. State
Game Warden Avery may be appealed
to in the matter and if peaceful efforts
fail the courts will be resorted to and the
farmers enjoined from carrying out their
plans.
A public meeting of the recently form
ed drainage association will be held at
the Brighton school house, Wednesday,
June 7th, at which time those desiring
to enter protest will be given a hearing.
The plan of draining Swan Lake is not
a new one by any means. As long as
thirty years ago a ditch was constructed
at the eastern end of the lake and the
water lowered to such an extent that
for several years it was nothing but a big
mud puddle. Before that time the lake was
a fine body of water and hunters from
all over the country made it a point to
put in a few days hunting there. When
the*farmers saw what little they had
gained in additional land and that the
wild fowl were no more making the lake
their summer resting place, the outlet
was partly filled up again, but the lake
never regained its former beauty and
size. Several large islands have formed
and several of them have been inhabited
by trappers[the year round for upwards of
twenty years. Legal lights contend that
inasmuch as these men have gained a
homestead under squatters' rights, they
alone may be the beneficiaries in case
the lake is drained. Should this be the
case the adjoining farmers will of course
oppose draining the lake most strenuous
ly.
Swan lake is very shallow, in fact the
section of country where it is located
is flat and has but little natural drainage.
A difference of 20 feet between the top
of the banks and the bottom of the lake
is a conservative estimate. Drainage
can be easily accomplished, however,
as there is an outlet to the Minnesota
River east of Nicollet station which can
be deepened at no great expense.
It was explained to the farmers attend
ing the meeting last Wednesday that
draining of the lake would mean the re
clamation of approximatelyl6,500 acres of
the best land in Nicollet county, an area
equal to nearly one-third of the entire
county.
The Chicago & Northwestern Railway
Co. last week signed an agreement where
by the wages of machinists, boiler
makers and their apprentices, helpers
carmen will receive increases in their
wages of from one to five cents per
hour. The wages of at least 11,500 men
wiU be increased by this agreement, and
the increase will add the sum of $600,000
to the annual pay roll.
BLUE EARTH BOY ON WAY TO
WILD WEST
Herbert Quartz, a fifteen-year-old
boy, was picked up by Policeman Herzog
last Saturday night in a barn near the
vinegar works, where he was going to
make his bed for the night. Neighbors
had seen the boy enter the barn and
notified the police. Investigation and
questioning proved that the young
ster was a run-away from the parental
home at Blue Earth, where he had left
last Wednesday. The parents were
called up on the long distance and at
their request the boy was held at the
county jail until Monday, when
Deputy Sheriff Wm. Stevener of Fari
bault County arrived and took the young
fellow back home.
The boy stated that he had tired of
going to school and had decided to see
something of the world, especially the
wild and woolly West he had seen so
much of in the moving pictures in his
home town. He jumped a freight train
and got as far as Lake Crystal Thursday,
the next day to St. James and on Satur
day to New Ulm. By the time he reach
ed this city he was tired and hungry and
was glad to go along with the officer in
order to sleep between blankets and get
a square meal. He is now ready to go
back to school and has made up his mind
that the West is not as grand as depicted
in the movies.
Among those attending the Armory
dedication yesterday were Major and
Mrs. O. J. Quane, St. Peter and Lieut.
Col. Mead of Mankato.
GOVERNOR J. A. A. BURNQUIST
JURY COULD NOT AGREE.
Men Accused of Illegal Fishing
Stoutly Deny Allegation of Game
Warden.
Upon complaint of Game Warden
Mather two alleged violators of the
state game and fish laws, Fred Christen
sen and Fred Kappelmann, were served
with warrants last Wednesday afternoon
by Constable Baltrusch. The com
plaint alleged that the two had at
tempted to catch fish illegally by using
a seine.
When the two appeared before Justice
Henningsen, they demanded and were
given a jury trial which was held in the
district court room Thursday and Friday,
the taking of testimony occupying the
entire afternoon and the pleadings of
the attorneys for the state and defense
several hours Friday morning.
The state attempted to show through
its witnesses that the two defendants
had fished with a seine Friday evening
of the previous week just below the
Bentzin mill dam in the Cottonwood.
Game Warden Mather and Constable
Baltrusch testified that they appeared
upon the scene shortly after dark and
had watched the operation from the
opposite shore. Several small boys testi
fied that they had received fish from
the two defendants and that a sack of
fish as well as the net had been concealed
just before the officers arrived upon
the scene.
Witnesses for the defense, among
them the two defendants, testified that
they had been seining for minnows, but
that no large seine had been used. The
line of testimony of the defense was that
the two officers had seen others seining
on the opposite shore and that it was a
case of mistaken identity so far as the
defendants were concerned.
The jury retired about 10:30 Friday
morning and at 4 o'clock in the afternoon
reported to the justice that there seemed
no chance for an agreement, they being
hopelessly divided four for conviction
and seven for acquittal. The following
composed the jury: Hubert Berg, fore
man, H. D. Beussmann, Jos. Bianchi,
Frank Eckert, W. B. Greig, Otto Hart
mann, Herman Hem,' Jos. Hofmeister
Geo. Hogen, Wm. James and Alb. Gag.
NUMBER 20
LITTLE GRIST FOR
MILL OF JUSTICE
DISPOSITION OF CIVIL CASES
EXPECTED TO TAKE LESS
THAN WEEK.
GRAND JURY URGES REPAIR FOR
INTERIOR OF JAIL AND
COURT HOUSE
From present indications the May
term of the District Court in and for
Brown County will be of short duration
and it would not be at all surprising if
all the civil cases had been disposed of by
the end of the week or even sooner.
Promptly at 11 o'clock Monday morning
Sheriff W. J. Julius announced the
opening of the May term. One of the
grand jurors, Angus McMasters of
Sleepy Eye, was excused from serving
because he is chief of the Sleepy Eye
Fire Department. Michael Lehrer was
appointed foreman of the grand jury and
upon retiring they elected J. M. Meyer
to act as clerk. There are no criminal
cases pending and it is doubtful if the
grand jury will have any matters brought
to their attention. If not, they will be
due to complete their labors by to-day
and be discharged from further at
tendance at this term of Court. John
Schapekahm is once more acting as
.bailiff of the grand jury. The other
bailiffs are Charles Brust, Sr. and Alwin
Harmening. George Hogen is acting
as Deputy Clerk of Court. Upon the
preliminary call of the calendar the
following disposition was made of the
civil cases that had been noticed for
trial:
Settled and Dismissed.
Albert Hesse vs. Chicago & North
western Railway Company. This case
it was reported was settled by the rail
road company paying the plaintiff
$250.00 damages.
,-—Continued.
Hattie Walter vs. William L. Walter.
This is a court case. State of Minnesota
vs. Alex Deinken. This is a bastardy
proceeding. Albert A. Paffrath vs. Her
man F. Wenzel.
For Argument on Demurrer.
George Guggisberg vs. William H.
Boettger and Edward F. Berkner vs.
Julius Krueger.
Court Cases.
State Bank of New Ulm vs. Minne
sota Flint Rock Co. This was set for
trial before the Court on May 25th.
Jury Cases.
N. C. Hoffmann vs. S. A. Wooldrick.
August Petrich vs. George Foster, Fran
ceska Sellner vs. Mary Conley. Farmers
Seed & Nursery Co. vs. Springfield Far
mers' Elevator Co. Henry Schriefer vs.
Ferdinand Hofschild.
In the session Monday afternoon the
demurrers were argued and the appli
cations for citizenship heard. The fol
lowing were granted their second papers:
Simon Hempel, Peter Jos. Beckins,
George Gimpl and Anton Lamecker.
Tuesday morning the petit jurors, 30
in number, reported for duty.
County Attorney Adolph Frederick
son and Aug. G. Erickson of Springfield
and George T. Olsen of St. Peter, L. G.
Davis and Albert Hauser of Sleepy Eye
were outside attorneys who were present
on the first day of the term.
Grand Jury Is Dismissed
The grand jurors reported to Judge
Olsen at 10 o'clock Tuesday morning
and through the foreman reported that
they had completed their labors, where
upon they were excused from further
duty at this term of court.
In the written report filed with the
court the grand jury reported that it
had investigated 'the assault charge
against John A. Van Gordon, but that
the evidence did not warrant an indict
ment.
Of their visit to the several county
buildings the report says: "Our visit
to the jail was made May 15 and we
found the place neat, clean and properly
conducted, so far as those in charge of
the prison can keep the same. We re
commend that the inside of the cells be
repainted in a light color, because it is
impossible to make it look cheerful in
the present condition, however clean
it may be kept.
"In the basement where the court
house janitor resides, the plastering has
fallen off in some places and this should
be repaired and repainted."
The report further states that the
members of the grand jury had visited
the several county offices and had found
the officials attentive to their duties and
the county property kept in good
condition.
'1
