THE BARKE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 54.
BARRE, VERMONT WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 191G.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
FLEETS MET
OFF BELGIUM
German and British War
ships of Smaller Type
in Engagement
LONDON REPORTS
NO CASUALTIES
German Attack on French
Positions Was Again
.Turned Aside
London, May 17. A naval engagement
occurred yesterday off the Belgian roast
between small German and British war
ships. There were no British casualties.
The encounter took place between
tome Britisher destroyer and monitors
and some German destroyers. The en
gagement waa short. ,
RECTOR WILSON
FLATLY DENIES
MAKING LOVE
The Defendant in Miss Johnson' $20,000
Breach of Promise Suit Testified He
Never Kissed Her, Never Embraced
Her; Never Asked Her to Be Hii
Wife Other Men Tell of Kiss
ing Miss Johnson,
Boston, Way 17. The $20,000 breach
of promise suit of Miss Laura Johnson
vs. Rev. C. C. Wilson was resumed in the
federal court yesterday, the principal
witness being Mr. Wilson, the defendant,
who denied every allegation made by the
Johnson girl. He declared he never took
her anywhere, never kissed her and never
tried to, never embraced her and never
showed affection for her, never asked her
to be his wife, never promised to marry
her and never made a declaration of love
to her. Several Burlington young men
declared that they had kissed the girl
during the period when, she alleges, she
was under the impression that she and
U.S. CRUISER
HITS GROUND
The San Francisco Was
Floated. After Several
Hours' Imprisonment
Faris, May 17. The Germans attacked
French positions in the vicinity of Dead
Man's Hill with grenades last night but
the. effort failed, says the official report
to-day. East of the Meuse, along the
V erdun ftont, there was continuous can
nonading on both sides, especially at
Haudremont wood and Vans pond
French air men made several raids dur
ing the night and bombs were thrown
on the Gentian camp at Damvillers and
Metz, Frescati and Brieulles railway sta
tlons.
DUTCH STEAMER
WAS BLOWN UP
IN NORTH SEA
Four of the Crew Were Lost and the Re
mainder Were Landed at Great Yar
mouth She Was En Route
to London.
London, May 17. A dispatch to Lloyds
from Great Yarmouth says that the
Dutch steamer Batavier V of 1,500 tons
has been blown up in the North sea. Four
of the crew were lost and the remainder
landed at Great Yarmouth. The Batavier
was en route to London from Rotterdam.
ITALIANS LOSE HEAVILY.
Austrian Offensive Seized 2500 Prisoners
and Many Guns. -
London, May 17. Austria's long ex
pected effort to drive the Italians out
of her territory has begun with heavy
simultaneous attacks on the southern
Tyrolean front and in the Isonzo river
region near the Adriatic sea. In both
directions substantial gains are reported
bv lenna.
Recent Italian successes In the capture
of mountain positions have endangered
the approaches to Rovereto, and the city
of Trent, both from the east and west.
The Italian advance in this difficult
country has been slow but. steady, unt
the pressure has evidently become intol
era hie.
Vienna announces the storming of Ital
ian first line positions in five different
localities, after concentrated artillery
preparations, and the capture of more
than 2,;00 prisoners, seven cannon aad 11
macnine guns.
RUTLAND VETERANS' BANQUET.
About 50 Gathered Last Evening Bran
don Man New Commander.
Rutland, May 17. About fifty veter
ans were present at the annual meeting
and banquet last night of the department
of Vermont, Spanish war veterans, held
in the armory of Go. A, 1st Vermont in
fantry. Dinner was served at the Hotel
Berwick, officers were elected from the
department and later in the evening
meeting at Camp Harold S. Foyles was
eeld when officers were chosen.
The following officers of the state de
partment were elected: Department com
mander, K. B. Hyde of Brandon; senior
vice-commander, h. H. Holden of Ben
nington; junior vice-commander, B. S.
Hyiand of Rutland; inspector, Charles
Bashaw of Burlington; surgeon, Dr. T. J.
Hagan of Pittsford; judge advocate, J
(!. Henkel of Brattleboro; chaplain, W
L. Towne of Middletown Springs, and
marshal, A. L. Stevens of St. Johnsbury
The moeting was presided over by the
retiring commander, Captain E. X. Miller
of Brandon.
B. & M. STRIKE BEGINS.
About 1,400 Track Workers and Foremen
Went Out Last Night.
Boston, May 17. Approximately 1,400
track workers and foremen employed on
the lines of the Boston & Maine railroad
went out on strike last night for a wage
increase of 20 cents a day and a Satur
day half holiday, according to officers of
the International Brotherhood of Main
tenance of Way Employes.
A strike call was issued by A. E. Bar
ker of Detroit, international vice-president,
who will direct the strike from this
city with the assistance of M. J. Powers,
also international vice-president, ami T.
J. FiioSerty of Lawrence, general chair
man. The- officers will be aided by 25
members of the brotherhood, who are as
signed to various divisions of the rail
road.
Mr. Wilson were to be married. The case
will probably go to the Jury to-day.
the first witness yesterday was airs.
Liln Woodbury Lane of Boston, who tes
tified to having had charge of the house
on College street where Miss Johnson
and her friend, Miss Mabie, roomed. She
said she went with the two girls to Fort
.Ktflan Allen to a iew l ear's ball, but
denied that Mr. Wilson had accompanied
tJipm
Sho testified that they had met Mr.
Wilson at the fort and that she and the
two girls had danced with him. She
gave the court to understand that the
party .was not a carousal. She testified
that those who returned to the city in
eluded Mr. Wilson and a Mr. Hicks. The
witness denied having seen Mr. Wilson
carry Miss Johnson from the pung. Mr.
Wilson called about once a week at the
College street house and not always on
Miss Johnson
Roy D. Sawyer of Burlington testified
that in company with "Opie" Murdock,
he escorted the plaintiff home from a re
ceptwn at !t. 1'aul a parish house in
June, 1913, and had remninded at tho
Hortons' house where the girl was stay
ing for about two houra and that during
that time he and Murdock kissed Miss
Johnson several times.
Louis F. Dow testified to similar ac
tions on his part and on the part of the
plaintiff, during the three times he had
called on her, twice with Douglas Rob
erts and once alone. He testified that
these visits were in May or June, 1913.
Joseph J. Curley of Boston testified
that he had called on Miss Johnson and
that once he had gone driving with her.
He admitted having kissed her and said
that after the ride mentioned he had in
ferred from what she said that the do-1
fendant was her choice.
Mrs. Theresa Donovan, a witness fori
the plaintiff and the woman w ith w hom
Miss Johnson stayed m Arlington, Mass;
testified to having seen Mr. Wilson call
on Miss Johnson
The next witness called was Douglas
J. Roberts, who said that he had called
on Mit,s Johnson twice in company with
Louis Dow in May or June, 1913, and
once on February 2, 1915. He said he
took the plaintiff to a moving picture
show and from there went home with
her, where he stayed for about two
hours, lie testified also to kissing the
girl,
All the young men denied that they
had ever been suitors for Miss Johnson's
hand.
Miss Jessie Cilley of Winooski test!
fied to having been on a boat ride,
Miss Johnson and Benjamin Van Braker
of Baltimore, Md., son of Rev. James b.
Braker of Burlington, also being pres
ent. She told how Braker and Miss John
son had been together throughout the
ride, which was on July 4, 191.1. She tes
tified to having attended services at Wi
nooski, but denied having seen Mr. Wil
son and Miss Johnson together there.
The deposition of Benjamin Braker cor
roborated Miss Cilley' statements and
included statements to the effect that he
had kissed Miss Johnson. He also said
that he had taken Miss Johnson out to
different entertainments.
Miss Amelia Vira Homeister of Wi
nooski told of attending social gatherings
at which the plaintiff and defendant had
been present, but she denied ever having
seen them together. She told of a dance
which the, plaintiff and defendant at
tended and said that Mr. Wilson left be
fore the dance was completed. She added
that Miss Johnson continually danced
with one Seth Johnson, a student in the
University of Vermont.
The next to take the stand was the
defendant. Rev. Charles Chase Wilson,
who first testified to the number of calls
he had made as assistant rector. He said
that he had called on Miss Johnson four
times in Januarv, 1913, and three times
n February, 1913. His parish calls some
times ran as li it'll as 128 a month as in
May 1913. About 60 were made in Jan
nary and about 60 in February.
Referring to the party at rnrt r.tfian
Allen, Mr. ilson said he did not re
turn from the post with Miss Johnson
but stayed there over night as the guest
of (Vtptiin Odin. He denied he ever tooK
lie girl anywhere. He declare! he never
kissed Miss .lohnon. never attempted to
kiss her, never embraced her, never dem
onstrated affection towards her in any
way, never asked her to be his wife and
never promised to marry her. He de
nied he ever declared his love for her.
EIGHT MEN IN BOAT
REPORTED MISSING
The Ship Was Laying Mines
in Nantucket Sound When
It Was Driven Ashore
Boston, May 17. The United States
cruiser San Francisco, which is serving
as a mine laying ship, was aground on a
shoal in Nantucket sound for several
hours early this morning in a gale, and
a whale boat containing eight men is re
ported as missing. Messages that the
men were lost were received at two sta
tions, but the Charlestown navy yard
said they had received no word of men
being lost.
The cruiser ran aground early in the
morning and the commander sent a wire
less for immediate assistance. The calls
were heard by the battleship New Hamp
shire and the coast guard cutters Acush
net and Gresham and the submarine ten
der Melville; but before they arrived a
wkeless was received stating that the
San Francisco had floated off and was at
anchor. It is reported that she was not
greatly damaged.
GRAND PATRIARCH
W.D.WILSON, JR.,
VETERANS OF '98
MERRY DESPITE RAIN
They Held Their Annual Observance of
Anniversary of Mustering Into U. S.
Service at Caledonia Park and
Also Elected Officers. '
Picnic conditions that were not exactly
meai prevailed yesterday while the Spanish-American
war veterans of Washing
ton county were going through their an
nual specialty of observing their muster-ing-in
anniversary at Caledonia nark.
dust ia years ago yesterday, the volun
teers of Vermont were mustered into the
service of the United States. It was a
fair day, but in the neur-seore years in- Vermont Republicans Are
tervening, the records of the county as-1
sociation show that only two of the an
nual outings have been blessed with pro
pitious weather. 'J here were forty vet
erans at the park, representing circles
of former guardsmen in Barre, Montpcl-
ler and ivorthneicl.
At noon a shore dinner was served in
the park pavilion, which is about as far
away from the shore as it can be and
yet remain in what i known as New
England. Yet the piece de resistance and
the fixings that constituted the big din
ner conformed pretty. well to what the
veterans would expect for shore lay-out
f they were over on the wa board ready j
to embark for the-Philippines. Those
who prepared the dinner came in for a
nice brace of encomiums from a very hun
gry set of men. ..Music and informal
pecchmaking continued from the point I Tn Vow I io-hi TWal Vnfn
there the dining left off and all in all, 10 V "IS HI AtHdl VOU,
the soldiers rounded out a full noon-hour.
Officers elected at the business meeting
are the ones who served so efficiently last
year, they are: President, O. D. Clark
of Montpelier; vice-presidents, Frank
Howe of Northneld, W. A. Fattee of
Montpelier, William Wishart and T. J.
Mercer of Barre, secretary, A. G. Eaton
ot Montpelier; treasurer, h. II. Prouty
of Montpelier. Fred C. Eaton and E. S.
Meigs generously turned over to the as
sociation a purse -of money to be appro
priated to Clan Gordon for a purpose at I
It was voted
FAVOR
HUGHES
2 TO 1
Strongly for the Man Who
Has Refused to Announce
Himself Candidate for the
Presidential Nomination,
Despite Great Pressure
WILSON THE CHOICE
OF DEMOCRATS
Cast, Theodore Roosevelt
Ran Second to Hughes,
and AH Others Received
Only Slight Support from
Any Quarter
Up to noon to-day Secretary ot State
the picnic next summer.
to hold the annual fall banquet sometime Bailey has received official primary re
in October or iNovember, the date and .,. frnm . .. . . ...
flf? ?T AT R A N5 P'ae to be decided by the executive com- " 'v " "u
Hinit-t;. XJJi.il liir UHiOJfiiro ii.iWi.JJJg n w-a i j uu uvb . J'- v . iv h U U'JY VI Ul
adjourned sine die.
A qtioiting competition between A. L.
Ooneo and F. C, Eaton formed the cynos
ure for many eyes until, the call to base
ly, ll l, ,, ..!, ii-a. Aa.
clared a draw and the veterans hurried ' xuuowing nay. unora
away to don their togs.
Grand Encampment of Odd Fellows at
St. Albans Elected Officers To-day
Barre Canton Won Com
petitive Drill.
returns before Friday. The vote on the
presidential preference has to be in his
office by Monday, May 22, and it will be
printing the ballots. As a total of 385
valid votes were cast, it will be seen that
each vote cost the city about half a dol
lar.
The votes were epread out as follows:
Republican. Democratic Frogreaiive.
Kooae-
Hutrhes. valt. Wilton. Roosevelt.
Ward 1., 80 8 24 10
Ward t.. 37 7 89 12
Ward .. 29 7 85 4
Ward 4.. 14 I 87
Ward 5., 6 1 IK 2
Ward S.. 11 0 18 . t
Totals. .128 24 166 83
REFUSE SALE
OF OLD SCHOOL
There were many scattering votes, as
toiiowsi Kepublican, Boot 5. Weeks 1,
Ford 2, MeCali 1, Uges 1 (evidently some
voter wrote in his own name) : Democrat
ic, Clark 2; Progressive, H. Johnson 1,
Hughes Z; Prohibition, Chafin 1. '
City Council Turns Down
Prospective Purchaser, of
Church St. Property
NO INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN.
12 APRIL DEATHS,
HALF, TUBERCULOSIS
Word Received That Street
Department Truck Is '
on the Roa''
Barre Republicans and Democrats Left
Choice to Delegates' Judgment.
The Republican and Democratic cau
cuses in Barre last evening were very
harmonious gatherings and in neither one I
of them were instructions given to tho
delegates elected to the state conventions.
Some thirty Republicans gathered in
the city council chamber for their cau
cus, being called to order by M. 8.
Rounds of the eitv oommit.t.ep. who later I
was elected secretary while F. G. How- while the ' o" chamber was occupied
land was elected chairman. Delegates to by the Rcpu .cans in caucus. When tho
uie state election were nominated from
Temporary quar vC , the city clerk's
office were prov' .iVor the city,' council
at its fortni' Q session last evening
the floor, and it wag evident that no slate
had been prepared. The seven delegates
are Alexander Gordon, H. G. Woodruff,
U K. Hutchinson, Thomas Nichols, Wil
liam Wishart, F. L. Small and John Bish
op. Ihey were empowered to choose
their own alternates. ,
city fathers were not engaged in tran
sacting the small budget of routine bus
iness that had accumulated through the
week, they were serutinizinz a detail
map of the proposed building line on tho
easterly side of North Main street, a
map which was prepared by City En-
a .., u :n K,mu -. j-to umiuc m me corn-
i new uij-y t:ujiiiutfcj.rJ3 JS J-VUBLIbULCU J.. T ...
as follows: Ward 1, F. G. Howland; 2, JV TiLZ D,"?1 r0'
S. Rounds; 3, T. H. Cave, jr.; 4, W. "7, "? , ".'."-
, Calder; 5. A. M. Rossij 6, L. C. Beck; .,mPale? n lDe P'M
lanre V C ttlvsson pending the decision of the council to
O pLi rS whether th de.. ?.rant hin? Pmit, lingered in vain for
M.
t riA wt iiniuinji I nH..IAl... A .. a
egstes to the stat, convention should be w,t 12 VSrfU "ttorou
requested to follow the presidential pref
erence as revealed by the primary, after
hich W. H. Meeser moved that the dele
gates be given no instructions whatever,
his motion being seconded by John W,
Gordon. The motion prevailed unani
mously. Later William Wishart, a del
egate, asked if the caucus wished to give
instructions as to 'support of possible lo
examination, but action was deferred and
for the time-being, at least, Mr. Tomasi's
extension plans remain in the air.
Three callers waited on the council as
the members were assigned to. seats.
O. H. Hale appeared with a request that
the council reconsider its order for the
removal of wooden sheds in front of the
City Auction market. Mr. Hale, in his.
convention; and that matter was left to
the discretion of the delegation.
N. B. Ballard, speaking of the financial
f M H,ij rjf f lid Jitw MmmHtta eatA tliat
. T . , I ' ! o I vat urn a . . '
ipi. .job iv. w- the 1312 campaign ended with a deficit
cal or county candidates for the national renmrk8i out' tu. ji8tincion
tween sheds and roof covers for the pro
tection of auction foods. After he had
gone, the council decided to stand by its
original order to have the alleged sheds
removed. E. A. Prindle complained on
Walter Emery, an Elm street man. who.
t Krt nfim nlainu n etala1 uoa ', n
was self-supporting and, in addition, all h.nhouge in the rear 'of hia rMidffnc,
of $112, because of failure to receive ex
pected subscriptions; the 1014 campaign
out. io remaining ran im w cam- that gave every promise of being a nui
pai&m was wiped out, while a balance of , tk ul.uu .
. v . ioi,. iuo iiraii.il in, in mil, litk mx
$4.70 remained in the treasury.
That quested to look into the complaint.
A man who said he was a missionary
of the Church of Jesus Christ and Latter
BIG GRANITE CONTRACT.
Sullivan, Me., Will Take on New Lease
of Life.
Sullivan. Me.. May IT. The gloom
spread over this town bv the dullness
in the granite industry has been suddenly
lifted hy th cluing of the largest con
tract for granite ever handled here. A
contract ban lwfn received for nearly
TO miles of granite ctirbinf, through a
Botn firm, an fnirr which will mean
rushing businens and pr"rrity for the
ton for a knc time.
1 Ve war -! whiri has hen in en
tmversy for ame tins1 haa ln et t ir I
at nrmmum rate of rents an h"ur
jr ruttisg.
Burlington, May 17. At the annual Jackson s team entered the held bearing of the state indicated that Charles E,
session of the grand encampment. I. O. the Carswell cup, donated last vear by
f V oft.rnnnr. U" n Witcnn I t t I"---., II ; f li..r
s i ., xji r; m'ic nciiiumi ,. i. .....-"'it, i i . ir-ija .inj,ru ,! iiicnii'i j 'i ,,., i . ...
r.. of .St. Albans was elected crand husband. But the triumph of 1915 was Fu .v. F.
patriarch, E. E. Jenne of New port grand not to be continued by Dr. Jackson's out- idential candidate, leading Theodore
high priest, J. M. Jewell of Proctorsville fit, for after five innings of the hardest Roosevelt by two to one. while Woodrow
grand senior warden and I. c. Maples kind of playing, the game went to l apt. Wilson was nearly the unanimous choice left a present deficit of $10.30. There
of Urattleboro grand treasurer. 1 here rat tee's team by the score of 12 to 1 . . D,mocr.ti, candidate "P two hats were passed around the
are ii encampments in tne jurisdiction, t. Meigs acted as umpire, ami wnue . caucus and $10.05 was dumped in. Chair- rw .:., 7' . ul j
with a membership of 1,749. he was freely scored for alleged lapses ! Pe ngiaaa canaiaaies Howland aeain dipped Into his pock- "i,:" .J C u 'tT i. 1. ?
A niriHa xF thn ilrir.'h M i lit Jl nt I ..f t In , .r of iha in, lii-atir for tha Bontlhlica n nnm ni( n. (.r.A , , ... . , . j v'" " v..c v.i.,,ijnci:i., jIB rniu.
. . ---..-v.. j,...v ..,.u... -r- "".. ws ennreiy cie.reu that Mormon meetings had Wn nrn.
that the new committee might be- ...iui i nin.r .;;- .ui,u i, V.,i
e 1916 campaign with a clean slate. th..n iven tj j.Maj u. .,.,
v llnA'. I 11 f 1 11 1 .1 1 fl IT V ll 1 - mf I . , - 1 t t II I O - w
i'lntui m, ..... . . , , . . . i i riA ijfmoCTtii onuptifi was ne.ia in ine i il. . . a-
si a T;n-rt w. uoiUv wmkb or me uitie Bute recemiiff out a " t i were sancnonea m
i? a Kiwlr aArol .nm. if rw.k -f. r- .11 a u hV - nituiJI frrfirtn tit rhm iurftr VAt. riiot : I I ,7 ; , i narre. i ne council iook a tolerant fitand
...vi ' v-- . f ...v.. 111, J 'J I IT I l via v. .7 . " I"" "J va-b. TiAfrAT HAr DV l-tAOrtTA IV . I rOrUlHIl. & mt'lll" I J A.J it. - "
mandintr of the Patriarchs MiliUnt. eon- r Ih Snlliv.n If. Wishart n. Tilden 3b. ,-, VnrA ..,.tt 1 n l " , .l' t.. . u. K'"lou nsionary permission
ferred the degree of the grand declara- iscais cf, Wilbur 2b, Eaton s, Dole rf. h d .imnortera arnnn th r.r. and Mr. Gorman was elected chairman
win. v.. i. t r.. ,l. ... . of the caucus. G. Herbert Pape was
mua uul icuutciv lew. n i ill i ijir urw
,,, .. ... .. elected to serve as secretary.
"rea n01 Ty weli 'r. ln On the motion of A. C. Moore, the cha
names of only three men being taken se- appointed three men to retire and pres
riously by any considerable number of ent the names' of eight men to serve as
voters. Those three names were Hmrhe. delegates to the Democratic state con
a 4. Ka IiaU at lliirlinfrfnn in la
AVVvaTlk buu JJ uavili A lie AUVKCll
A paraae or me rairmrcns ;iuiianiv ot jmlgnient, ine noiuer oi me inuicaior tor uio jcepuoucaa nomination larea Pt ar
yesterday afternoon was followed by a emerged from the shuffle unscathed. The rather badly, Gov, S. W. McCall of Mas- up so
competitive drill by teams from four teams lined up as followsi C.pt Pattee Mchu(eMr.,rJ U. S. Senator John W. gin th
cantons represented in the parade, and e. Goneo p, Mercer n. Gladding 2b, , - , . The
Canton Vinton, No. 0, of Barre won.
tion of chivalry upon Col. W. J. Cain of
Brattleboro, retired, and the degree of
declaration of chivalry upon Mrs. Angie
C. Endress of Bennington, president of
the Rebekah assembly, w ith impressive I Montpelier Republican Voters
ceremonies before a large audience in the Send Him to Convention.
upper hall of the armory last evening.
The conferring of the deirreea was fol- Only 44.1 Montpelier
H. J. M. JONES ENDORSED.
Would
25. A. C. Moore, A. J. Loranger and Jo
voters took
lowed by the grand ball of the Patriarch, enougn mtrrcK .n - r . ..-a , - vote w divided utwettt tne Republic4n l . N , appointed and present
ifl nfh.K u a in fha nioirt I 11181 VPiieniJIV 111 IP1- lC irvillH iv I . , .
a 111 I mi li T l li. is nno i it v iti aiiuxi .
hall of the armory, with more than 200 tween 12 ociock noon ana o ociock
couples in attendance. Music tor tne en- "'"Z-SV.-j.rv.lZ' J' " . . Patrick Brown. Arthur E. Campbell, John
tire evening was furnished bv the Odd presioeni. i.n; m u ,,r,u v . ..." me Dauoi try means ot sticuers. n'lnrv Herman L Camnbell and Har
Fellows' orchestra under the "leadership o'clock in the city council chamber and A yery hght vote wg jn both the P. .'iiVhiw wm we rati
f n rvactnn 4i,i. i.;iv Th finnr board of trade room drew out a lair
n tn IF I I ' I VI . 1 . , i' I .1' '
- 3 i L . .... . ... I ., ,, . ., - -L I
.:, -- ---- . ,,k, ,i ...,ri ;,, auinllinir the to. "lies ana me igwns, nue io ine newness ne a oy me caucus nu it was mucu
committee in charge of the arrangements number 8nd 7ipd J" ''nK h..l f tttm nrimant ' tn mM that each delegate have the power of
ClMMtflinK HIS UWU Hliri la t-c in K.a nx. v sis
GIFT TO PARSONAGE.
Made by Mrs. Lestina D. Mack for Derby
Line Church.
St. Albans. May 17 Mrs. Itina D.
Mack of Derby Line hat turned oter a
trift of $2. to Rr. t.corge F. Kortier
f this city, superintendent of I'nivcrsal-
t churches, to If ej for a parson-
g for the I'niversaltst prih at Derby
Line. The conditions of the gift are that
be parsonage liall be deeded in trust lo
the I'niversiliH convention of Vermont
and Province ot Quebec and thst it shall
be free from all inrunilranre of any nrt.
The Universalis r-arinh at Wet Ier
hv Ka votpd to bold preaching seri,-e
diiring the coming summer. Among other
upplir. it is r p te-1 that F,-v. F. W.
Miilcr. I. D., paf.r of the Vorlian
I'niversa'ist chim-h. 'liicac, 1IU
mpply fr aeteral ,itn.ia . Ir. Miller
a pt'r of the Wuft IVrliy church'
lien it was built.
for the ball was composed of Gen. It. A.
Stocker, Col. Alexander Duncan, C. .
McGaffey, Harry W. Chase, R, C. Smith
and Frederick Brainerd.
Col. Alexander Duncan of Barre pre
sided at the session of the Patriarchs
Militant held yesterday morning at Odd
Fellows' hall. There was no election of
officers this year, as their term of office
is two years, but the usual annual re
ports were read and accepted. I he com
manding general of the Patriarchs Mili
tant, K. A. Stacker of Miamisburg, ti.
delivered the principal address at this
meeting and complimented those pre
ent npon the flourishing condition of the
order of Odd Fellows in ermont.
The parade of the Patriarchs Militant
formed at Z ociock at the armory. J he
parade was headed by a platoon of po
lice, followed by Sherman s Military
band, after which came the first regi
ment of Vermont Patriarchs Militant,
with Col. Alexander Duncan of Barre in
command. Among the officers on Col.
Duncans staff were Lieut. Col. W . Jv
Frank of Bennington, Past (V1. W. T
Haieh of Brattleboro. Past Col. W. .1
Cain of Brattleboro, Past Col. Frank W.
Jackson of Barre. Tho cantons repre
sented in the parade were Burlington
Barre, St. Johnsbury and Rutland. The
marchers were not a whit disheartened
at having to tramp through muddy
streets as the result of the rain, which
fell early in the day. and moved along
with military- step and bearing.
The exercises in the evening were at-l
tended by an unusually large and inter
ested audience.
J. M. Boutwell read the following result weather. Probably not more than 15 per
cent ot tne state s normal vote was cast. f:11Pa w riorm.n was re-elected to
1M cnicr Koosevelt strength seems to serve for two years as committeeman
have been developed in the northern part at-Iarge for the city committee; Angus
of the state, there being many towns (, '" ' '"
. . . .. ' ' l . . from ward 1; T. J. Denning from ward
lno naa a ma- 2 : A. J. Loramrer from ward 3 ; J. J. Har
iority over Huehes. On the western side tiin from ward 4: M. D. Keefe from
to about SO interested persons who
stayed in the hall until the ballots were
counted: Democratic ticket, Woodrow
Wilson 161, Koosevelt 2; Republican
ticket, Charles E. Hughes 172, Theodore
Roosevelt 56, Elihu Boot 14, John W.
Weeks 3; Progressive ticket, Roosevelt
nn u 1 n 1 1 . V-A 1
-if, MUg..r .'." J .v.. v....,, v ... ..ZrA a J 1. ' .Tncluicin from ward
The following delegates were elected "s"" vy i" ju -----
to the Republican state convention, to be greater strength, but in some southeast- No inatnictrons were given to the del-
held at Montpelier May 26: H. J. M. ern sections Roosevelt ran ahead. Mc-
Jones, Fred A. Howland, J. M. Boutwell, . lhnrB,, mnm. -t.tll ,B r.i.nm.
W. A. Ird, J. G. Brown, Fred L. Uird. ' " "
TV v. V. Steele. H. M. Fari.ham and county, especially in Lyndon, the native
W. X. Theriault. The alternates: F. H. town of Mrs. MCUUL where the Massa
Tracy. M. L. Wood. George O. Stralton. chusetta governor got 110 votes, against Waterbury Republicans Wish to Send
F. T. Parsons, Henry Holt, E. If. Deavitt. L H.,i... ,n ?i , b...u Townsman to Chicago Convention.
(ieorge V. Jlailcy, .Maurice iwwey, rrea
I egates.
was 3o.
The attendance at the caucus
FAVOR G. E. MOODY.
E. Gleason.
The caucus, by a resolution Introduced
by A. G. Eaton, endorsed H. J. M. Jones
as a delegate from Vermont to the na
tional convention at Chicago and thei
delegates were instructed to back him.
Mr. Jones was asked to make a tew re
marks "on the situation" and responded
bv saving that the Republican party
must nominate a man who will heal the.
wounds of the past. He paid that, if
sent to Chicago, he would represent the
state to the best of his ability and use
every effort to have such a man nominat
ed.
A vote of thanks was given Henry
Hughe:
Washington County Vote.
Hughes. Wilton. Roooevelt. Scat.
Barra City ..
Berr Town
Berlin
Cabot
Calais
Duxbury ...
E. Montpelier
Faystnn . . . .
MarehAeld ..
Middlesex ..
Montpelier ..
Moretown
Northneld ..
Plainftcld ...
Rot bury ...
WaitaAeld . .
Warren ....
Worceater
IN POOR HEALTH FOR YEARS.
Harriet Newell Reed Died To-day at Her
Home on French Street.
Mis Harriet Newell Reed, for nearly
a half -century engaged as a nurse and
for 2.5 yean a follower of that profession
in Barre, passed away at her home. 7
French afreet, this forenoon at 10:.TO
o'clock. Miss Reed bad been in declining
health for several vears and latterly ber
condition had grown unusually feeble,
although it was not until live week ago
that she was eonHned to her bed. She i.
survived by ber eiter, Mrs. Solomon
Bartlett of Fla infield, and bv several
nephews and niets. A MH-orid iter died
in girlhood and two older nters. Mr.
Cortland Perrv and Mrs. Henry Batchel-
ler. are deceased.
Had she lived until ti-morrovr Mis
Reed would have reached ber T3d birth
day. She w-as born in Platnfirld and a
a young iihimd of 1 she entered the
nursing profeion. Thereafter she en
gaged in nursing in ber hwie town until
a quarter of a century air. hen slie
ca me to Barre. M i Reed wa a member
of the Method.st church and was held in
h'gh esteem hr many w hewrt aHe had
eerved in ber long and faithful career.
Waterbury
Holt for his faithful and efficient work Woodbury
chairman of the city committee for
several vears and a new committee was
elected upon the recommendation of a
nomination committee. Before adjourn
ment the caucus went on reci.rd as heart
ily endorsing Frank L. Martin aa the
party candidate for probate judge, Mr.
Howland calling attention to the fact
that it would be the only opportunity
for so expressing themselves as a body.
Ruhard H. Stanlin preticieit ana
James Ford acted ecretarv at the
IVmocratic caucus, the following dele
gates and alternate" to the state conven
tion at Burlington May 2.i being elected:
T. K. Callahan. H. ". Sburtleff. F. M.
Bryan. L. C. River. M. J. Klannery. I,, B
Brooks. H. T. Krenier. R. If. Standish
Daniel M.-Govern and I. S. IToweo; al
ternates. James Ford. Herbert Brem. P.
H. Rvan. IVrt Brown. . A. J. Sihlw.
Georgi I -a. key. V. N. Woo,. J. .1. f;!i
nev, J. E. Flngan and George Alkin.
1? 1 6T 17
U 14 7 2
18 14 2
20 IS 4 4
2i i '
IS 7 6
20 It 1
US t
12 SI 11
174 161 87 IS
7 9 S
is i '
17 II 1 1
4 21 IS 1
i io i
Caledonia County.
Hushe. W llon. Rooaevelt Scat.
Birnrt 2 14 S 9
Burke 7 7 S 14
Danville It 12 .. 211
Groton IS .. I
Hardwirk 4 2 SS
K irby S 2
Lyndon S 21 21 110
Newark 10 4 IS
Pear bam .... 21 7 14
Rycaate 2 IS 1 14
Sheffield t 2 S S
St. Jntinabury 1)2 4 V 1 SS
Stannard .- ..
Sutton 7 2 H
Walden .. ..
W'aterford ... IS 4 1
Vtherlurk t 7 ..
THE BARRE PRIMARY.
Vote
FIVE REGlrfEKTS ENLIST.
For the Summer Military Training Camp
At Plattsborg.
New York. May 17. Rornrta sufficient
to form fie regiment f in'aniry at ar
Iretsgih liae rnri'ei (r tSe i)nif!i.-r
nditary training -arrp at I'lt ? Knrj.
X. V it u ann;r-el tmliv. F.rl.tt-
mrnla U.as far t-ajpl t,t"j-
Wilson Led in a Very Light
Hughes Was Second.
17 rr rent of Barre's vote was
in the rrr iVnt ial rrimarv; and
Only
rar-t
Waterbury, May 17. Waterbury 's five
delegates to the Republican state conven
tion were instructed yesterday to "use
all honorable rueans" to secure the elec
tion of G. E. Moody of Waterbury as del
egate from ermont to the national con
vention in Chicago. Mr. Moody is a new
candidate in the Held. The delegates to
the state convention are H. C. White
hall. V. L. Perkins. T. C. O'Xeil. E. A.
Xeweomb and M. E. Hutching. Otherwise,
they were uninstructed.
Tho Waterbury delegates to the Dem
ocratic convention, chosen yesterday, are
Richard Demerritt, G. B. Evans and tar-
roll Robinson. They were not instruct
ed.
Waterbury's primary resulted as fol
lows: Hughes 64, Wilson 23, Roosevelt
2S (13 Republican and lo Progressive!.
Watson I.
The Duxburv delegates to the Repub
lican state convention are K. B. Demer
ritt and Philip Shonio, and to the IVmo
cratic state convention John Dillon anl
J. K. Breen. The Duxburv primary vote
was: Hughes 2". Wilson 3. R xiscvelt 8
(3 Republican and S Progressive).
Barre Town Vote.
The Barre Town primary vote was as
follows: Hughes 24, Wilson 34, Roose
velt 7, Hoot 2.
GUILTY OF PERJURY.
Lillian Robinson Pleaded Guilty and Was
Put on Probation.
In Washington county court this fore-
Woodrow Vil.m. barring two votes for!n"'n Mr. Lillian Robinson of Rarre
It lump Hark, w. fh unanimou, choice I Plo,''','(, l" ' perjury
, -i . r. a t..-i. i- , - i ll"
had a romnnnding lead in the Republican
e, t ln. I iieolore tvooeTelt ! third
with a rmh;rel trength of 57 vote a
PepuMKan and rri:rei.
li.e primary o-l me rny nearly IVrrett
an! in addition the t-tate jaid the cost cf t-ted.
to preach on Depot square one night in
each week, with the restriction that Sat
urday nights be omitted from the sched
ule of outdoor services. On the question
of granting the request, the council ap
peared to be divided. When an oral vote
was called for. Aldermen Glysson, Healy
and Bruce were found in opposition to
the idea of permitting the missionary to
speak in the public thoroughfare, while
Aldermen Shurtlcff, Rossi and Reynolds
were for granting the request. Mayor
Gordon broke the tie by voting in favor
of the street preaching.
Then the fourth visitor, in the person
of E. M. Tobin, appeared. Representing,
the clean-up committe recently appoint
ed by the Barre Board of Trade, Mr.
Tobin sought the council's co-operation
in the clean-up project contemplated by
the Board. The council allowed that the
Board of Trade could have the ,.t0 of
fered aa its contribution to last year's
campaign. 1 Tie contribution, it was stat
ed, was never paid in to the city treas
ury. At the same time the health com
mittee was instructed to enforce the
ordinances relating to a general cleanup.
Alderman Shurtleff sank his plummet
into medieval history when he asked if
anything had ever been done in the way
of negotiating for the disposal of tho
hurch street schoolhouse. The member
from ward 3 intimated that a purchaser.
contemplating the use of the building a
a residence, could be named. On the mo-
ion of. Alderman Rossi it was voted not
to sell the edifice.
Fifty per cent of the deaths in April
were due to consumption, according to
the monthly report of the citv health
fTVer, Dr. .1. W. Stewart, who ascribed
the 12 deaths of the month to the follow,
ing causes: Tuberculosis 6, accidents 2,
isease of the. heart, scarlet fever, old
age and pneumonia, 1 each. Eight cases
of infectious .diseases were classified a
follows: Scarlet fever fi. measles and
kicken pox, 1 each. Eleven burial and
one transit permits were granted. The
report ws accepted for filing.
That the police department is in a fair
ay to have its deputy chief was evi
nced in a rejiort brought in bv the leg-
Jative committee, in which the city
ordinance, rhnpter 2i. o amended as
to legalize the introduction of such an
flii-ial and to set forth his duties. The
report was accepted and the proposed
niendmrnt was passed to a second resd-
ng.
(iood new from the Middle Wet was
received in the form of a telegram deliv
ered Monday to the Vermont Trucking A.
Sales Co. In substance, the mesa
stated that the Jeffrey truck, purchased
for the ftrect department in March, was
shipped from the factory May 15 siijI
that a tracer has been dispatched on tho
trail of the big motor. It is sail that
the street department, digging down into
it appropriation already. ill have t"
uncoer a new alibi, if the truck arrives
in any season at all.
Wiring permits were granted the fol
lowing applicants on the favorable rec
ommendation of Inspector D. M. ;i!!crt-
nn: IVarre Hospitl association, to wire
for lights and motor at nurse' home off
Washington street; Met "oil Si Ahsre. for
two motors in Bunthame meadow; .
i!Ia, for electrical fixtures at 2i Berlin
street: Montpelier A Uarre l.iphtins A
months and not more than eeren months
in the boirse of correction, after whiih
sfte wa pia-e-i on pronation. j Power Co.. for 1 motors; j. Musoo,
Two Barre divorre iac were alsolf,,r 1.hts and motors at 62 Xorth Ma n
; heard, l.wwg.a Moo-!y siicd Wilbam H. Street; lr. H. S. Carver, for Uglt at
jMonly and Margaret Bennett sued I 'asern avenue; Mrr 4 tiordnn. for m-t-
t .
IV-th n. s were u'l-on-
.Ontinutd on fourth S' )
