* 44
XAMMN SAN AY6
VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, MAY 1,1916
STATE CONY[NTION
ME[TS THIS MORNMIG
Election of Delegates Cen
ter of Interest.
MAY NOT SEND
SEN. TILLMAN
Thos. ]I. Cothran, W. P. Pollock and
N. B. Din Suggested as Permanent
President. Campaign Circus to
'Come In for Lively Discussion.
John Gary E~vans, of Spartanburg,
chairman of the State Democratic ex
excutive committee, Wednesday at
noon will call the State Democratic
convention to order in the hall of the
house of representatives at the state
house. The principal order of busi
ness will be the election of two dele
gates from each of the seven congres
:lonal districts of the state and four
at large to attend the national con
vention of the party to be held at St.
Louis, beginning on June 1-1. There
are 338 delegates accredited to the
slate eon vention from 15 counties or
the ate.
Fighit for Tenipiorary ('hairman.
Th1( first business of the convention
w!ill be the election of the temporary
ciiairn ua, and the probabilities arc
tlkt there will be a tight on this, as it
i.1 learned that the lIlease faction will
1, 1d a complete "slate" of otlicials.
Who will be designated by them for
this position is not known at this time
but a candidate for this as well as
the other positions in the convention
will be decided in a caucus of llease
delegates to be held in Columbia
Tuesday night. Neither the Manning
nor Cooper followers have made any
mention of contesting for temporary
president, but it is thought the prob
abilities are that they will do so, par
ticularly if the Blease peogle carry
out their. present intention.
Following the election of temporary
president, the convention will be or
ganized and permanent officials will
be gelected by a vote 'nf the delegates.
They will consist of a president,'a vice
President from each of the congres
sIonal districts, two secretaries and a
treasurer. 'Thomas H. Cothran, of
Greenville, and W. P. Pollock of Che
raw, have been mentioned as 'possi
ble candidates for permanent presi
dent. It is thought that a hard tight
will be made for leadership in tlhe
body.
"Big Four" May Surprise.
- There is much speculation as to
who will be the "big four" to the St.
Louis coiveition. The names of Sena
ator Tillman, Senator Smith, lover
nor Manning and W. P. l'ollock have
been advanced as probable choice for
delegates at large. it is understood,
however, that a concerted fight. by a
certain element will be made on the
election of Senator Tillman, who has
gone to the national conventions since
1890, ad also the probablilities are
that objections will be raised to Sen
ator Smith, think those that are fa
miliar' with the political com plex ion
of thme conventlon. Senator Smith was
not sent to the state convention by
hIs home county-Lee-and thIs Is giv
en as an indlicatlon of what wIll hap
Pen Wednesdiay. Another possibilitly
as delegate-at-large lately has been
suggestedi in the person of N. hi. D~ial,
-of Laurens. R. Gloodwin Rhlect, of
Char'leston; L. J. Brownuing, of IUnion;
Bight WVlliamnson, of Darlington; D.
C. Ileyward, of Columbia, andl others
not so well known.
Ther'e.has been an agitation in some
quarters for sending only those to the
n'toa convention that are not state4
or federal o cials or candidates for
state or federal ofilces. Hlow far this
has taken hold of the imaginations of
the delegates, is not known at this
time, but there are those that think
the coming gathering 1yi11 be filled
with surprises for the politicians.
May Bounce lien Ti~nman.
Another Interesting fight presaged
for Wednesday will be the election of
the state national - committeeman,
which, according to thie now ,,rules,
must .be done by thme state convention
V and not by the state exectuivo corn
mittee, 'as formerly. Senator Tillmnan
hap held this position for many years
and it' Ia known that an .effort will be
* ~ iade to Oust him,
Bhould John Gary IilIans be a candi
date for reelection aschalrmnan of the
state exeoutive committee, ho will
tud opposition in the person of Gon.
UAPTISTS CALL PASTOR.
Richmond Divine Extended Cail tX
Pastorate of First Baptist Church.
Rev. Samuel Ii. Trempleman, .D. D.,
for the past seven years pastor of the
Northside Baptist church, Richmond,
Va., has been extended a call to the
pastorate of the First Baptist church
of this city, which has been without
a pastor since Rev. M. L. Lawson re
signed several months ago. In case
Dr.~ Templeman accepts the call, he
will come to Laurens within several
months.
)r. Tenpleman is a comparatively
young man, having been out of the
seminary only. eight years. -e0 is a
graduate of Richmond College and
Colgate Seminary and has taken post
graduate work at Columbia University.
At present, in addition to his minis
terial duties, he holds the chair of DIi
ble in Richmond College. lie is con
sidered one of the most promising
young men of the BIaptist church in
fihe south. lie is married and has two
children.
Wilie .oines, of Columbia, who was
chairman for many years prior to .\lr.
1'vans' encumnbency. The IBlease fac
tion openly aLnounce that they will
select Gen. .Jones for the position in
their Tuesday night caucus.
The only contest known is that
from heaufort county, where the
Christensen and the Tolbert factions
-.\Ianning and ilcase, respectively
each elected a set of delegates. The
light in Beaufort was the outcome of
the effort to reach Mayor Danner, of
that city, and bitterness continually
brewed until it caused the split in the
county convention there on May 1,
when the Tolbert fatcion walked out
and held a convention of its own.
Another interesting matter to be
brought up at the state convention
will be tpie probable consideration of
the resolution passed at the recent
meeting of the State Warehouse asso
ciation which requested one hour's
time be given to Joht L. McLaurin,
state warelhouse commissioner, at
each of the county meetings for can
didates in the pre-primary canvass.
Senator McLaurin stated at the ware
house meeting that, should this time
be refused, he would then go into the
race for lieutenant governor. Those
familiar with political conditions in
this state are of the opinion that the
former United States senator will
have to make good his words and
make a campaign for second place, for
they think it Very unlikely that. the
vnireho'uscmen's request will be
granted.
Others May Waut Time.
It has been said that should the
Warehouse commissioner be given tle
time, then the state convention will
be requested by the lire insurance
people to allow one of their spokes
men an hour in which to expose the
"fallacies" of the Loney-Odom "anti
compact" law. Also it has been sug
gested(l that the Confederate veterans
might leire an honur in which to tell
lhe People that increaised pnsionis
-are neeed, and that thle prohibit ion
ists and the liquor interests might also
dlemandl their hour to tell of the evils
and the joys of conviviality, respec
tively.
".f belv, in a comnpliance wilth the
rules ofthe Democratic party," statedi
Forme~r Glovernor TBlcaso yesterday ini
dli~susing the impirobabJility of the
qtate convention allowing any nion
(andidlate to take up the time of the
county-to-county canvass, "and, there
fore, I am very much opposed to any
man that is not a canididate being al
lowed to speak in the campaign
meetings, and I am also strongly op
posed to any candidate being allowed
any mere time than his opponent for
t~he same office."
The former governor stated that ho
would do everything in his power to
prevent the state convention from al
lowing a departure from the rules in
conducting thme county-to-county can
vess. ie said, however, that lie
could see no objections to any man,
candiidate or not, sp~eaking prior to and
after the regular meetings, if it la
possible for hiiki to get, the crowds.
Other politicians are of the same opin
ion as ox-Governor Blecase, but they
have not exp~ressedl themselves so
strenuously as lie has. It is thought
that these expressions wvill be given
voice from the floor of theo conven
tion should the warehouse resolution
be introduced which some are so bold
as to assert will not be.-Columbia
Raecord.
PLAY AT UItAY COURT-0WINVS.
Laurens Dramatic Club to Stage
"Among the Breakers" for School
Improvement Association.
After a successful season of two
night in Laurens, one at the opera
house and the other at tle Laurens
Mill school, the Laurens Dramatic
Club will open Its season on the road
at the Gray Court-Owirngs school build
ing Thursday evening with a repeti
tion of its popular play "Among the
Breakers" in which appear some very
talented amateurs of the city. The
chief attraction in this play is the uip
ronrous comedy strain, which is ab
solutely irresistable, keeping the audi
ence in a continuous spirit of good
humor from beginning to end, indeed,
those who are enjoying a grouch, are
possessed of the blues, disappointed in
love, are affected with head-ache,
heart-ache, ear-ache or any other all
mnt or pain, are downcast, lonely
and dejected are invited to be on hand,
bringing the troubles along, for they
will be "rolled away like the clouds
of the morning". Tile dramatic critic
of this paper was given the license to
"spread it on" very thick in regard to
this play, as it was thought that notl
ing he could say would possibly do it
full juslice, but he will refrain fromt
further encomiums here until the
plaudits and praises of the Gray
Courtiers justify what. he has already
said. Comedy, however, will not dis
place love, pathos and even tragedy
in their claim upon the audience, for
all of these are so entwined in and
around the plot as to make a direct
appeal to- every emotion. But, get
ting lown to the more practical side
of this business, the price of admission
will be 15 and 25 cents and an ice
cream festival will be held after the
show, for which all are expected to
come prepared in pocket and purse.
Cast of Characters.
David Murray, Keeper of Fairpoint
light house .1. M. Fewell
Larry Divine, hig assistant, Allie Lee
lion. Bruce Hunter. W. It. Richey, Jr.
Clarence Hunter, His Ward
Charles Fleming
Peter Paragraph, a Newspaper
Reporter ... ... Dr. It. E. Ilughes
Scud, Hunter's colored servant
W. E.: Meng
Minnie Daze, Hunter's Niece
Miss Annie Simpson
Bess Starbright, cast up liy the
waves Mrs. Albert Dial
".\other Carey', a replted For
tune Teller Miss Iebecca Dial
Biddy Bean, a Maid
Miss Lu~eIa Simipson
ME:MORti.tL, EXERC(ISES
il.'I) SIJN)AV AFT"'EiRXOt)\
('ol. Ii. '. Simpson Makes Short 'hut
Eloquent Address.
Exercises in memory of the Confed
crate dead were held at the Laurens
cemetery Sunday afternoon, presided
over by Col. II. V. Simpson, a mn1eml
her of the Sons of Veterans. The ex
ercises were opened with a song by
thle children of the gr'adedl school, a f
ter' which an.lnvoaction was aSked( by
Rev. J1. R. TI. Major.
C (ol .i Simlpso1n made a shor1t 1but elo
qulent addr'ess, in wichl lhe paid a
tribute to the brave soldihers of the
'Copfederacy andl charged his hearers,
as a matter' of love and dutly, to cheiriih
their memor'y o the state's heroes and
to dlefendl the prInciples for which they
fought.
The litonor' Roll' of the Confederate
dcadl was read and the exercises were
brought to an end when the school
chiildr'en and Daughters of the Confed
eracy laed floral wreaths on their
gr'aves, not forgetting the few graves
of Union soldiers wvho rest there.
iJhrksdtde Schoeol Ciostes.
The annual school picnic of Barks
dlae school will be held Friday, May
10th, in the gr'ove at Blarksdale sta
lion. Scoeral proingnnt men will ad
dress patr'ons and children. The pub
li scrially invitedl to come and
briing woli fillied baskets.
Mrissinary Ta'ilked.
Mr's, .1. 11. Gr'aham, a gr'eturlnedl mi -
sionary from China, spoke twice at
the Firs5t Prlesbyterlian (church- Sunday,
in the after'noon andi in the evening.
In both addrlmesses Mrs. Grahamn uphld
the cause of foreign mission, point
ing out that the bible made no dis
tInction between home and foreign
missioujs. Mrs. Graham' in a very en
tertaining and convincing speaker and
makes a strong presentation of the
cause of foreign minsinna
BELOVED YOUNG LADY
DIED) AWAY FROM HOME
Miss Mary Posey Succumbs to Uraenic
Poison While in Virginia.
Miss .Mary Posey, only daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. 1. F. Posey, fuccumbed
to an acute attack of gly-cosuria while
visiting relatives at Martinsville, Va.,
Saturday evening. She had been con
plaining of feeling unwell for several
days and Saturday morning her con
dition became so serious that a wire
was sent for her father to come to her
bedside. He left on the mid-day train
Saturday, but by 7 o'clock the same
evening she had passed away. The
news was received in Laurens with
profound sorrow, as the young lady
was of noble character, possessed
of a bright mind and beautiful dispo
sition, and beloved by all with whom
she was associated.
Miss Posey had been away from
home for some time. Shortly after
Easter she went to Randolph-Macon
College, where she graduated last.
year, to attend a sitid(ent celebrat ion.
She visited friends for sone time and
then went to Martinsville to visit rel
atives. The attack came on while she
was at Martinsville.
The body was brolght home for
burial Monday morning, .\londay ev
(ening at ( o'clock the funeral services
were held at the Posey home on outh
harper stiret. and immediately after
ward the body was carried to Ile Lau
reni; celetery for interment. 1Rev. .1.
IR. T. Major, her pastor, conducted the
services. Classmates of her graded
school (lays and members of the Sun
(lay School class which she taught
marched in the funeral procession
bearing many beautiful flowers. The
pall bearers were:
Active--Messrs E~arle Owings, Clyde
Fowler, Phil Iluff, Rice Nickels, Henry
Franks and Moore Dial; Honorary
Messrs. Calvin Owings, W. L. Gray,
John A. Franks, Ralph Terry, W. It.
McCuen, R. T. Dunlap, C. .. Barksdale,
0. 13. Simmons, C. W. Tune, C. D.
Moseley, Dr. W. H. Dial and Dr. J. 11.
Teague.
A S('IIOOL COrMENCEMENT
OF LAUIRENS COUNTY
Children of Seventh Grade Awarded
D iplomnas Entitling ''henm to Enter
High School.
Friday evening, at the city graded
school building, was held tlie first so
called "Laurtens County School Coi
imencement", which is a part of the
plan inaugurated by the department of
education this year to standardize the
work of the schools and to secuec
higher elliciency. 'I' wenty-eight schools
parliilpated in the commencement,
each school having had one or more
Itipils to pass an examination drawn
up by the department. of edueation.
Each pupIl was awarded a diiloma
carrying vith it. the right to enter any
high school in tie county witliont fur
tier examination. Sloie very fine pa
pers were submitted and the following
received the highest miarks:
Annie 0. M latton, (linton, 97 1-2.
Aldine lilakely, ('linton, 97 1-2.
hlayinond Gaston, Watits .\ ills, 92.
Cioiigh Farraru, M1ou ntvilleI, P1.
I~awr'ence Cuiirry, (Gray (onurt-(Av
ings, 90.
.\lr . . II. SulIiivan oresidled over the
exercises of the evening. State Super
initend~ent of Educat ion J1. E. Sweari n
gen) andl Prof. W. K. Tate, of Peabody
College, made add~resses, the former
dliseussinig some phases of the coim
imunity school sytmand the latter
"'The .\odern Educated Mamn".
Annual Jones' PiCenic.
Invitations have been sent out to
heannlual Jones' Picnic, held at
Jones high school, near WVare 8Shoals,
every 3er.r. In addition to thme school
programn, addresses will be made by
'Col. J. iI. WVharton, Dr. D). M. Rlamsay
and Gov. Rt. I. Manning. As in the
past, a large crowd is expmectedl to at-.
W~ILL~ ADDIIESS iioY SCOUTrS,
Pub~ic Ini fed to Attendl Meethig ini
Sc'ouit lIaiJ Next Siuny.
There will lie several addresses
madle before thme Boy Scouts of Lail
i'ens inl thoir hall ovei' Solomon's
Jewelry store next Sunday after'noon
'at fouri o'clock. Several prominent cit
izens have been invited to asidress the
troo4 and a very interesting afternoon
ts promised those who attend. The
public, and especially the parents of
Scouts, are cdrdially invited to be
present tn he the addresses.
LA'iENS M1SICIAN
iII(.11LY CO31PLIME NTED'l
Mrs. W. U. Luens and Other Noted l u
sictis Eniterinin Club Federation
in Anderson.
Mirs. W' E. Lucas has returned ionie
after spending several days in Ander
son attending the Fine Arts Session
of Federation of Women's Clubs. Mrs.
Lucas took a leading part in the musi
cal program and added much to her
already nation-wide reputation as a
musician of the highest talent. The
following clippings from the Ander
son papers will be read with Interest
by her Laurens friends:
,"'he chairman of music, \rs.
Thomt as l)otterer, of 'Charleston,
spoke beautifully of the influence and
importance of music in ler report.
l'Demonstrating her knowledge of
music, she selected the best musicians
of the state to give the program for
this evening. MIrs. A. G. 1lloteky, of
Spartanburg, has sung with artists.
and indeed she has the right to, for
she is an artist, herself. l ier accom
anyist. is also a gifted musician who
has been connected withI the music
department. of Converse college for
iniy years, Mirs lary IlIart L.aw. An
other young girl wIto shows unmis
takable talent. is the violinist, .\liss
.Marie I-::aoln, also of Spartanburg.
.\notlier talent1ed wonmn is LMrs. W. lP
I'ncas. of laiiret;. She has played
at. inany g;hori:ga all over the
lnited State.; -and her faitme is na
tional. AlI of the players were en
cored, and generally gave other niu
bers."
In speaking of the musical program
during the sessions, The Anderson In
telligenec' had this to say int regard
to the playing of Mrs. Lucas:
"This interesting program was con
eluded with a brilliant instrumental
selection by Mrs. W. E. Lucas of Lau
rens, one of the most attractive and
talented delegates attending the con
vention."
PLEASED WITH LAUBtENS.
Rev. J. L. Birowi'lee Visiting his
Daughter, Mrs. A. C. Todd, on West
Main Street..
Rev. J. L. Brownlee, pastor for sev
eral years of the Madison (Ga.) Pres
byterian church, is spending awhile
in the city with his daughter, Mrs. A.
C. Todd, and Mr. Todd. Sunday morn
ing he preached an inspiring sermon
to an attentive congregation at. the
Firstl.resbyteria clurb, where he
was heard with much interest. Rev.
1r. [lrownlee hap recently accepted a
call to tile I'reshyterian church at
I.enatohioa, Miss., one of te largest
churches of northern .isiipiand
is taking a match needed rest l efore
taking up his (liielks there.
Ir. I1rowilee will also visit )ue
West l't'fore going to .\lipsissippi, his
son being a student at Etrskine col
lege, and also Anderson, where his
hrotier, Mr. S. ). Itrownlee lives. Ie
lopes also to visit MouitvtIle, where'
hte a ughtI schootil a ftr hiItis graduttion
fr'omt college. Mrl . Ittro wntlee sieaik s int
very hIgh termits oft Laurien.< and ot its
people, saying Itiat It. is always a
ileasure;' to vlsitI here.
(Gary ILontg. I te youn g wit ite umant
contvicted at the Sepltember)'i term1 of
('outt. of' breakinig itto theo Bank of
WVateriloo, htas bieen 1paroled duiiritng
goodl behtavlir by3 Gov. Manintg. It is
uniderstood thtat a ipetitiont signeod by
tneat'ly till th itrtespontsibl c)(it izens of
Waterloo besides ttany eole of oth
er parts of thte counity was pt'esentedl
to the govertnotr itn thte youtng man's
behtalf.
Plete at Baitey's Schtool.
'here will lie a pienic at Balley's
solocol next Friday, May 19th. DurIng
the (lay tere wvIll be exercises by the
children antd add resses by well-known
spteaker's. 'IThe litblic is cordially in
vited.
Pteit lemoinig School.
F'leing school will have a piettle
in thte gi'ove at Mi'. C. D). Robertson's
otn SEaturtday, May 20th. The publIc
Is cordially' inv~ited to attenid and
brting well 1111l(d baskets.
To) PreabhI Next Sunday.
Rlev. L. M. Ropter, D). D,., of Peters
burtg, Va., will occupy the pulpit of
the Firiist Baptist church next Sunday
morning and evening. Dr.~ Roper Is
a. native of this county and always at
tracts large congregations whenever
lie nrnnehes hare.
'IlGH 808O0L tOS[8
FRIDAY, MAY 26TH
Two Adresses b) Distin.
guished Divines.
CLASS NUMBERS
34 MEMBERS
Hlacalaureate Sermon to be Preached
by lev. E. 0. Watson and iLiterary
Address ivi:' be Delivered by Dr. J.
S. M1offaltt..
The invitations to the commence
ment exerc iscs of the Laurens Il 'ii
School have just been Issued by t hi
memhers 1 the graduating class. All
of the exercises this year will be held
in the auditorium of the graded school.
The following is the conmencemilent
jirog ra Im:
Vednesday evening, May 21th, S::+
o'clockl.-- Coninencement sermon by
lRev. E. 0. Watson, )enmark, S. C.
Thursday evening, .May 25t h, S:::0
('1 clk.---(lass exercises.
Friday evening, .\ay 2th. S::
o(c k.---L.iterary addriess, by ):-.
Jat:':cs '-tron \!otfaitl, P~resident of'
isrskcin" ('ollege, I)tte \\'est, S. ('. I) ..
livcry of Diplomas.
Thile f'ollowing is the class rol: Di
l lonia' P pils - -I larry .\leAlister, C'oyle
NIonre, 'harlies H. 'Tho:-.ipson. 1elto
lBirns, Blanche C. Veoche, Frances
Myers, Rebecca .1. 1.1 ke, Mat tie Lee
Riddle, Virginia Sullivan IElizabetI
Young; Certilleate Pupils-Frank E.
Armstrong, Ilen r Y. Bennett, It.
Thornwell Dunlap, Thomas It. Easter
by, James I. Fleming, Charles M.
iit.ts, A. Eugene Power, Truman 11.
Roper, W. Piclkens Shealy, 0. B. Sit
mons, lla-rry 10. Wilkes, Fred Wingo,
Leona Adams, Alpha Bolt, Mary L.
Burns, Margaret Dial, Kate Ellen
lMchelberger, Caroline Fleming, Leori;
M. Powers, Mary E. Reid, Cecelia L.
Taylor, Irene \I. Wallace, Amy R.
Wolff, Myra Rt. WofTord.
The class colors are yellow and
white; the class flower is the daisy
and the motto is "Per Aspera Ad
Astra". The officers of the graduating
class a-re: Elizabeth Young, president;
Alpha Bolt, Vice-lresident; Thornwell
Dunlap, Treasurer; Frank Armstrong,
Secretary.
3111 A S, I 01TON il'I El.
1.aid to Rest Friday Evening. luneral
Conducted by Rev. J1. It. T. .Mijor.
.\Mrs. \'irginia (:rilton, wife of l)r. 11
1;. (Iritton, whose death at lri', Pa.,
was announced last week, was buriel
at the ILaurens (e ietery Friday even
ing with a Iarge numiber of itieople in
attendance. The services were con
(111c1e by Rev. .1. It. T. .\lajor, I asto'
of the \l ethod1st chnt-h. Many beau
tiful flowers were laid on the grave
after the services were ended.
The l'ollowlug gentlemen acted a
l1l1lo hareis: Active---Reeder \','ork
mani, 'ow ler ('hildlress, lBrooks ('hil
dress5, Idwin ILucas, TI. I. Swygert, .,.
I olt , JIr., .\iarvini \Vol ft, elienry Irbhy;
Iliioary--(. W. TIunew,.1),r. W. Ii. F'er
gluson , IDr. W. ('. Irbhy, .1. T1. (' rews, J.
I". I licks, WV. P., Chibiress. J. Warr len
lHol t, 10. II. I ludgens, W. L. t(lray, Ii.
TIerry, A ug. IIluif, W. A. WantIs, D r. ii.
K. Alkeni, Dr. R. E. ilughes, C. I).
llaiksdale, Jl. D). Wats, 10. IP. .\liniter,
l0. II. Wilkes.
PRISON ERS TRY TiO ES('AtlE.
Ralpth Martin and Tomt Scott, Whtite
Prisoners, Try to Escape fromh ('oun.,
ty Ja..
Ralph Martin and Tomi Scott, two
prisoners in the county jail awaitingt.
trial for felonies, attempted to escape
from tihe jail Thurs'day night by re-.
moving the brick from the fire-place
of the cell in wyhichi they were incar
ecented. .\lrs. Ow'ings, the j;Vilor's
wife, hcarid thle commiliotioni, however,
and1( gave thle alarm ini time to pre venit
their escape.
in making the repairs a fter thle at
tempilted deliveiy, SherIff Watts toolC
thle oppiortunfity to give thle jail a.
miluchi needled cleaning up. A great
dea11 of' dIrt and1( tiuth wer'e remloved!
andl a few conveniences ini the waLy of'
washing utensIls were added. Al
though much scrubbing was done, M\r.
Watts states that It would be. an im
possible task to bring the jail up ta
any groat degreo of comfort or clean
linnaas
