What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY, march 10. 1916.
NUMBER 3
Big Meeting Will
Discuss Fair Plan
Chamber Of Commerce Will Give Sup
port But Wants Everybody Inter
ested Supervisors Favor Idea.
Next Thursday will probably see
the formal launching of the Maui
County Fair proposition. At 2 o'
clock that afternoon It is expected
that representatives of many organi
zations, and individuals from differ
ent parts of the county, who are i
terested in the matter, will meet in
the district court room in Wailuku
and appoint an executive committee
to have general charge of the under
taking. At this time also some gen
eral idea of the scope of the prop
osition will probably be decided up
on. Secretary Case, of the chamber
of commerce, this week sent out let
ters to various territorial and federal
departments interested in agricult
ure, to the homestead associations
and other farming organizations
known on Maul, to various members
of the chamber and other individuals
In different parts of the county, in
viting them to be represented at
this meeting, and to pass the word
along to others interested. These
notices were sent out In accordance
with the resolution adopted by the
chamber at its meeting held last
Saturday afternoon.
In spite of a terrific downpour of
rain, the meeting last Saturday was
attended by some thirty members
and others, and while no attempt
was made to organize, it was clear
that sentiment was very strongly
in favor of the fair Idea. It was
thought best that the chamber avoid
any appearance of wishing to monop
olize the undertaking, and for that
reason a general public meeting was
decided upon, and set for next Thurs
day. At this time it is hoped that
the fair may be definitely launched,
Independently of the chamber,
though with its active approval and
backing.
The secretary was also instructed
to communicate with the board of
supervisors, and as a result, that
body has given the matter favorable
consideration at its meeting this
week.
Prof. Clowes Gives Suggestions
Prof. Fred A. Clowes, of Lahalna
luna, but who was formerly in
charge of the Glenwood(Hawaii) sub
station of the Hawaii experiment sta
tion, and who is given the credit of
having in large measure teineered
the first Hawaii county fair to suc
cess, a year ago, told of the work In
this connection, and of the success
attending it, and predicted that Maui
could do fully as well. The Hawaii
fair, Mr. Clowes stated had been fc -cessful
from a financial standpoint
in that it did not wind up in debt
and had not had to call upon any
individual or organization to should
er any financial debt. His talk was
eminently optimistic in tone, and
most encouraging to the proposed
undertaking. Success was to be ex
pected, he indicated, through the co
operation of everybody in the work.
F. F. Baldwin favored the idea, but
thought that expressions should be
bad from persons outside of the
chamber, which organization should
avoid if possible, any suggestion that
i the fair was not to be a truly repre
sentative one. It was on his motion,
that the meeting next Thursday was
decided upon.
Hana Wants Steamer
Wharf Very Soon
Before the next legislature meets,
Hana people want it understood that
they propose demanding a real
wharf, or rather the extension of the
present structure to where the Clau
tiine can berth along side. This it is
claimed can be done for not to ex
ceed 125,000.
The present wharf, which was
nearly demolished by the January
Btorm, has been put back into shape
by the public works department, but
it. is likely to collapse should another
storm of equal severity strike It.
Police Break Up
Big Chefa Game
Three Japanese Held Under Big
Bail Claimed Evidence Is Conclu
siveBooks And Tickets Secured.
In the arrest, on Wednesday after
noon, of three Japanese, Miyano.Mat
sumoto, and Nakahara, in Kahului, the
police believe that they have broken
up che fa on Maul. According to Dep
uty Sheriff Ferreira the ring-leaders
of the game have been caught. The
bank was raided while the trio were
at work, and tickets, books, money,
and even the lucky word for the draw
ing were secured.
After spending one night in jail, the
trio succeeded in giving the $500
bond demanded for each, and were re
leased. They demanded a jury trial,
and the case will be tried in the cir
cuit court within the next few weeks.
The bondsman for the alleged bankers
is J. Onishi, the Kahului merchant.
National Guard To
Have Socker Teams
Every Company Will Probably Be Rep
resented Interest Growing In
Target Pratice.
Capt. Chillingworth, athletic officer
of the 3rd regiment, Is organizing a
number of association football teams
In the guard, it being the plan to
have a team for each company before
long. Socker has never been played
on Maul, but it is believed, that a
good deal of enthuslasm in the game
may be worked up.
Much interest is being manifested
in the target practice which has been
made possible with the partial com
pletion of the rifle range below Wai
luku, in the sand hills. One double
target has been in place at the 200
yard range for several weeks, and
it is on this that the boys of the na
tional guard are practising just at
present. Pits for the 600- and 1000
yard ranges are dug, and the targets
which have just arrived, will be
placed in position immediately.
Last Sunday four members spent
several hours at the butts, firing two
sets each. The scores were: W. S.
Chillingworth, 4646; G. N. Weight,
3940; F. A. Lufkin, 4241; D.
Townsend, 3435.
Socker soon
Children Delight With
Pretty Entertainment
The entertainment given at the
Wailuku Orpheum on Thursday eve
ning under the auspices of the new
church building committee of St. An
thony's church, was an exceptionally
pleasant affair. The program con
sisted of little comedy features,
drills, etc., all given by the children.
Among those who took part were:
Maggie Marks, Eva Dickens, Rosalie
Enos, Eddie Durlem, Ray Harry, Jo
DRego, Lowery DoRego, Joe Silva
Joaquin Reis, Rose Marie Silva, Anna
Correa, Virginia Correa, Violet Me
deiros, Rose DoRego, Maggie Medel
ros, Irene DoRego, Kate Abreu, May
Reis, Marian Correa, Gussie Silvia,
Mary Silva, Rotsalie Correa, Lilian
Dicketoa, Helen Flores, ,Tony Reis,
Richard Silva, Maggie Marks, Nettie
Moura, Lucy DoRego, Bella Paresa,
Pearl Medeiros, Bella Costa, and
Lucy Coelho.
LUMBER GOING UP
Tho price of norwest lumber was
advanced 50 per thousand feet the
first of this month by the Kahului
Railroad Company. This is the third
advance since the first of the year,
and dealers say It is by no means the
last. Lumber is said to be advanc
ing on the coast, and the difficulty in
getting vessels to carry lumber car
goes, owing to the war is adding to
the scarcity of the product in the islands.
School Boys Are To
BuildOwnWorkshop
Supervisors Authorize Structure That
Will Test Ability Lunches Now
Being Served In Wailuku School.
The boys of the Wailuku public
school have begun work on the con
struction of their own work-shop, a
building 22x32 feet In size. The sills
were laid this week, and Vocational
Instruc ro Bowman states that practically-all
the work will be done by
the pupils. The county authorized
the building some time ago but delay
in getting started induced by regular
builders, suggested the work as prac
tice for the class.
LUNCHES NOW BEING SERVED.
During the last few weeks the
Wailuku school has been serving
lunches to the children through Its
domestic science department, under
direction of Miss Kau. These lunch
es consist for example of potato salad
and bread and butter sandwiches for
a nickel, while another five cents
will buy sherbet and cake.
0-
Stage Is All Set
For Queen Esther
Brilliant Musical Treat Promised In
Sacred Cantata By Choral Club
Beautiful Scenery.
Owing to a severe cold.D. C.
Lindsay will be unable to sing in
the production of "Queen Esther", at
the Pala Community House tomor
row evening, and the important cha
racter, "Haman" willl therefore be
taken by the Rev. Mr. Pleasant, of
Kahului. It was hoped until the last
day or two that Mr. Lindsay would be
able to appear, but he finally decided
that this would be impossible. Mr.
Pleasant, who has been reheaslng
the part for some time, is expected
to do full credit to it.
The Choral Club members have
been working over-time during the
past week with reheasals, and Di
rector Baldwin is well pleased with
the results. Special scenery cos
tumes have been prepared for the
cantata. Mrs. C. G. White, as scenic
artist, is responsible for the throne
room scene, while Miss Alexa von
Tempsky, assisted by Miss Aiken,
have produced a striking oriental
back-drop. F. C. Cameron is stage
carpenter. Mrs. E. C. Hayward is
accompanist.
The principal roles will be as fol
lows. ''Esther'', Mrs. LI C. Jones;
"King Ahasuerus", H. W. Baldwin;
"Haman", Rev. Mr. Pleasant; "Mor
Princess", Lois Murdoch; Median
decai", David Rattray; "Zerish",Mrs.
A. C. Rattray; "High Priest' and
"Beggar", H. D. Sloggett; "Persian
Princess", Mrs. Cameron; Mordecai's
sister, Mrs. W. S. Nlcoll; maids of
bonor.Mlss Rosecrans and Miss Roe;
prophetess. Miss Pearson. Hegai,
Alvin Robinson. In addition there
will be many pages, guards and other
court attendants.
Date Fixed For Dig
Suffrage Convention
The long heralded Suffrage Con
vention will be held in the Wailuku
Town Hall on Friday evening, April 7
under the auspices of the Women's
Aid Society of the Wailuku Union
Church.
For the first time in the history of
Maui a suffrage convention will be
held here and the novelty of the
thing should strongly appeal to the
public. We can safely promise there
will be no lack of fun and excitement.
At tho close of the convention,
which will undoubtedly be a Btormy
one, the Maui people will be afforded
the pleasure of dancing with the
suffragettes. Adv.
W. O. Aiken of Paia, is on Hawaii
this week attending a meeting of
the Hawaii promotion committee, of
which he is a member.
Championship Will
Be Hotly Contested
Saints And Waikapus Will Begin Clos
ing Series Sunday Fans Say Saints
Have Been Resting For Big Fight.
Next Sunday's baseball game will
open the championship series of the
winter league. The teams trying for
this honor are the St. Anthonys and
the Waikapus, the former having
won in the first series of games, and
the later In the second series just
ended. The game should be a good
one, for though the Saints have not
been showing much force in the re
cent series, the faus believe they
have been saving themselves for the
present championship contest Cer
tain it is that Blackle Kuehu, their
best pitcher, has not been on the
diamond much lately, but he will be
on the mound next Sunday. The
Waikapus have been doing some
good, consistent ball playing, for the
most part, and with a considerable
portion of the fans they are favor
ites in the coming series.
The two games last Sunday were
again of the raw order, the first be
ing won by the Saints from the
Chinese by the score of 18 to 8, while
the Waikapus put it over the Asahis
to the tune of 9 to 2.
This Doard Wants
Frequent Audits
The board of supervisors has de
cided that all county accounts should
be checked up at least every six
months, and accordingly It has adopt
ed a resolution to this effect. The
resolution implies that the board
Btands ready to help out in any ex
pense incurred in doing this audit
ing. It was the lack of such cooper
ation on the part of previous boards
that prevented frequent auditings in
the past, according to the county
auditor, in explanation of the fact
that the books of the second circuit
court had not been audited for three
or four years at the time that Ed
mund Hart's alleged shortage came
to light. Since that time checking
has been started in county accounts
in, Lahaina and other places.
Pioneer Store Has
Deen Incorporated
Pioneer
The Pioneer Store, of Wailuku, has
been incorporated with paid in
capital stock of $25,000. Of this a
mount $20, 000. oo Is fresh capital,
which it is expected will enable
this concern, to make many
improvements and start off with a
clean slate. About half of the stock
is held by the Enos family, the rest
having been qujckly subscribed by
local citizens. C. D. Lufkin was
prime mover in the reorganization,
and is one of the principal stockhold
ers. The Pioneer Store, formerly known
as the A. Enos store, has been one of
the successful mercantile enterprises
on Maui. It is at present under the
management of Augustine Enos, son
of the founder of the business, who
recently took charge, and who con
templates many Improvements.
LENTEN SERVICES.
Wednesday, March 8th, being Ash
Wednesday, special services were
held at the Church of th Good Shep
herd, in the morning a 10.30.
A celebration of the Holy Commun
ion was preceded by the Litany, and
Ash-Wednesday penitential office. In
a brief address, the Rev. J C. Villiers
said that the object of Lent was not
for us to proclaim ourselves worse
than we are. but to save us from a re
ligion which exists only on the sur
face; to remind us afresh of the
great elemental and essential things
of our Christian faith; to recall the
soul to the note of conviction, and to
emphasize the fact thatin the last an
alysis, spiritual things are the things
of first importance In human life.
A special service with a brief ad
dress, will be held in the Church,
each Wednesday evcning,at 7.30, dur
ing Lent.
PORTUGAL NOW LISTED
AS ENEMY0F GERMANY
Teutons Declare War On Republic On Account Of
Seizure Of Ships-Verdun Struggle Still Unde
cidedAmerican Troops May Cross
Mexican Border.
HONOLULU, March 10 Department staff of army in Hawaii is
being reorganized. By first of August personnel of headquarters will
be entirely new. Transfers which began in January being conducted by
orders from headquarters.
Lt. Col. Waldo Ayer, popular army officer, died at Fort Shaftcr
hospital yesterday, after a long illncs.
Governor refuses to call extra session of legislature upon talk alone.
Insists that supervisors present reasons for proposed session in writing.
Demands consideration for garrison of Oahu. Tells city fathers
that county plans must include soldiers and sailors.
WASHINGTON, March 10 Official at capital pleased with Gen.
Slocum's work against Villa bandits. Lansing hopes that Carranza will
not object to American troops crossing border. Free hand to be given
army in rounding up outlaws. United States troop will probably be sent
into Mexico, as Carranza is helpless to prevent disorders. Another
planned raid reported near Ilachita. Men citizens arming and women
and children placed in safe places.
LONDON, March 10 Teutons repulsed at Verdun line. Paris re
ports officially o f french successes, despite contrary claims from Berlin.
In Corbeaux wood, Germans claim to have cleared off all French.
Gallics are reported to be forging slowly ahead. French making con
tinuous advances in western battle line.
Germany declares war upon Portugal. Seizure of Teuton ships
leads to formal announcement that hostilities will begin. Step not un
expected. BERLIN, March 10 French losses at Verdun heavy. Have lost
between 70,000 and 80,000 of which 20,000 were taken prisoners.
PHILADELPHIA, March 10 Idle refinery will resume opera
tions. Franklin refinery to be put to work again, employing 800 men at
start. Plant has been idle 25 years. Will now take Cuban sugar.
BERLIN, March 10 Statement by Overseas News Agency says
since February 1915 French and British aerial guns have killed 1043
civilians, many being women and children. Last month aerial bombs
killed 17 women and 15 children. 47 women and 21 children wounded.
ODESSA, March 10 Report reaches here from neutral sources
saying Germany has declared no peace negotiations will be made with
entente powers which do not include compensation for Turkey.
WASHINGTON, March 10 Provision to prevent foreigners from
holding office in diplomatic service of consular corps, was written into
diplomatc bill not pending. Eighty-two foreigners now so employed.
(Continued on Page Five.)
Admits Theft But Will
Not Dig Up The Cash
Ah Chong, who runs a coffee shop
at Hana, is mourning the loss of f 150
and although he knows the man
who took the money, and the thief
in jail, it is still doubtful whether he
will ever see his savings again.
Teo Filo, a Filipino arrested for the
crime, admits his guilt and showed
the police how he entered the room
of Ah Chong and carried out the
trunk which contained the treasure,
and later broke the receptacle open
and obtained the cash. He refused
to tell what he did with the money,
however, probably intending to serve
a prison sentence and then have the
cash to enjoy lite on.
Heavy Rain But
Damage Not Great
With a kona wind blowing during
the latter part of last and the first of
the present week, Maui experienced
another heavy rainfall in almost all
sections. Iao stream for a short time
was almost as high as it was during
the disastrous flood of two months
ago, but this time there was no dam
age reported. The county suffered
from road washouts in a number of
places, particularly on tho Lahaina
side, but generally the rain was bene
ficial to growing crops. According to
reports, Uie storm was genera
lhroughout the territory.
The government rain gage at the
St. Anthony's school in Wailuku.ln
charge of Brother Frank, showed the
following precipitation:
Mar. 4, 1.01 inches
" 5, 2.82 "
" 6, .00 "
" 7, 2.22 "
Total 6.05 "
Highest Temperature on the 5th,. .85
Lowest Temperature on the 9th, 58
A record of over 6 inches was also
recorded at Olowaluand other points
on the leeward side of the island
pera
SHRINERS PLANNING FOR BIG
TIME.
A number of Maui Shrlners are
making their plans to go to Honolulu
on the 31st Inst for tho purpose of
meeting Imperial Potentate J. Put
nam Stevens who will arrive that
morning by the Great Northern with
a party of mainland shriners. As
the distinguished visitor is accompa
nied by his wife and has other ladies
in his party, wives of local members
of the order will probably accompany
their husbands to the big gathering.
LENTEN SERVICES.
Lenten services at the Church of
the Good Shepherd will be held on
Wednesday and Friday evenings at
7:30 o'clock. A children's service
on Monday afternoons at 2:30 o'
clock. Sunday services as usual;
Holy Communion at 8 A. M., Morning
Prayers and sermon at 11 A. M.
Strangers and Friends are invited to
all services.
CIRCUIT COURT NEXT WEEK.
The second circuit court grand
jury willmeet next Wednesday for
the opening of the March term of
court. The Hart case will probably
be the principal matter to be consid
ered in a criminal lino, although
there Is the usual batch of minor
criminal matters from the lower
courts to be disposed of. The trial
jury will not be required to report
until tho following Monday.March 20.
HONOLULU HAS NEW
AUTO SUPPLY FIRM.
The Firm of Smoot & Steinhauser
has opened a store at the corner of
Alakea and Merchant Streets, Hono
lulu, to engage in wholesale and re
tail business in auto sundries and
tires.
The new firm has been made dis
tributor for the Firestone Tire and
Rubber Company of Akron, Ohio, and
will handle their products for all
the islands. Firestone agencies are
notified of this change, the new firm
having taken over all the stock of
the former distributor.
Attention is drawn to the adver
isement that apears in this paper.
