"'.
PRICE TWO CENTS
VOL. LVin-NQ. 60
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1916
FOURTEEN PAGES
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Doublo That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in .Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
Particularly Violent Attacks by Germans Around
Douaumont Availed Nothing
TEUTONS CHARGED IN SOLID FORMATION
Gained the Foot of the Slopes of the Ridge Dominating Fort
Vaux, But Were Driven Back by the French With
"Enormous Losses" French Have Continued the Of
fensive in the Corbeaux Wood, and Have Driven the
Germans From That Position Several Fights in the Air
Have Occurred in the Neighborhood of Verdun Ger
many's Declaration of War on Portugal Brings the
Thirteenth Nation Into the Struggle Russians at Vari
ous Points Have Taken the Offensive.
Cabled Paragraphs
British .Mercantile Tonnage.
London, March 9, 7.18 p. m. The
total net Eritlsh mercantile tonnage
on register at the end of 1916 was
12,416,408 tons, as compared -with 12,
119,891 at the end of 1913.
Subscriptions to Gorman War Loan.
Berlin, March 9 (by wireless to Say
vllle). Further subscriptions of 65,
000,000 marks to the fourth war loan
were announced hy the Overseas News
agency today. The Coloeme Savings
bank took 28,000,000 marks, the Pro
vincial Bank of Westphalia 25.000,000
and the War Leather Society, Ltd.,
20,000,000.
BRITISH MINERS NOT
AVOIDING MILITARY SERVICE
President Smillie of Miners' Federa
tion Says Nearly 250,0C0 Have Join
ed Army.
London, March 9, 8.42 p. m. Robert
Smillie. president of the coal min
ers' federation, rectified tonigh the
widespread report that many thous
ands of men are flocking Into mine
work in order to avoid military serv
ice, as underground mining is an ex
empted trade.
"Nearly :'..0 .000 skilled miners," said
President Smillie, "have joined the
army since the ou'bre-k of the war.
Their departure ca-is"d a crisis in the
Railroad MenVota
ForjghtS'ourOay
ALSO DEMAND TIME AND ONE
HALF FOR OVERTIME
400,000 MEN CONCERNED
Germany has declared war on Por- j
tugal. Thus thirteen countries are
now engaged in the international
struggle.
The declaration of war was made
by Germany chiefly on account of the
recent seizure of German merchant
men interned in Portuguese ports and
Portugal's refusal to rescind this ac
tion and once more place the ships
Under the German flag. A long series
of alleged breaches of neutrality by
the Portugunese government, such as
permitting British troops to pass
through Mozambique, the use of Por
tuguese ports as bases for British
Warships and insults to the German
nation by members o the Portuguese
parliament, also were contributing
factors.
Fighting between the French and the
Germans northwest and north of Ver
dun has not slackened. Particularly
violent have been the attacks of the
Germans north of Verdun, around
Douaumont, the villa are of Vaux and
Fort Xaux, but according to Paris the
went for naught.
Germans in Solid Formation.
The Germans were thrown in solid
formation against trenches of the
French bordering the foot of the slopes
' of the r-rtdge dominating FOrf Vaux
which the latest German oSicial re
port said the Germans had captured,
but the French brought their curtain
of fire into play and drove back the
attacking forces with "enormous
losses."
Northeast of the fort the Germans
ssayed an assault against the vilHge
of Vaux, from which they hnd pre
viously been driven by the French,
but here also they were repulsed with
casualties. An attack on the outskirts
of the village of Douaumont was sim
ilarly put down by the French artil
lery and infantry fire.
French Offensive in Corbeaux Wood.
West of the Meuse, midway between
Bethincourt and the river, the French
have continued on the offensive
against the Germans in the. Corbeaux
Wood and are officially reported to
have driven the Germans from almost
all of that important salient.
East and southeast of Verdun only
Intermittent bombardments of oppos
ing positions have taken place. Sev
eral fishts in the air between French
and German aviators have occurred in
the neighborhood of Verdun.
In Champagne the French have cap
tured a trench near Maisons de Cham
pagne and are shelling the German
positions r.ear Navarin, the Butte du
Mesnil and Massiges. In upper Al
sace a section of a German trench
east of Seppois has been taken by the
French.
Russians Not Idle:
In the eastern theatre the Russians
at various points have taken the of
fensive against German advanced po
sitions but Berlin declares they no
where met with success. In the Aus
tro-Italian zone the bad weather
again almost has stopped operations.
The Russians on the Black Sea coast
continue to press on toward Turkey's
principal port of Trebizond and also
are making process trg-flnst the Ot-
tcmans in the Persian sector.
The Russian forei.'-'n office categori
cally denies that Turkey has made
peace proposals of any kind, the chief
of the department of the east saying
Ao overttirei. official or semi-offi-ciil.
direct c indirect, have been re
ceived." A despatch from Rome says Aus
trian warships in the Adriatic are
preparing to attempt a dash through
the Dardanelles to the Black sea tc
aid the Turkish navy against the Rus
sians. This may account for the re
ported removal of the mines in the
Dardanelles.
This Vote Does Not Mean a Strike
for Enforcement of Demands Mere
ly That They be Presented to Rail
way Officials.
Chicago, March 9. It was officially
announced here tonight that the vote
ot 400,000 engineers, firemen, conduc
tors and trainmen of American rail
roads overwhelmingly favored author
izing union heads to enter Into nego
tiations with railroads for an e.gnt
hour day.
The following statement was issued:
Overwhelmingly in Favor.
"While returns firm members of
Condensed Telegrams
Senator Pomeren's bill for a uniform
till of lading: passed the senate.
Hawaii's 1915 sugar production was
646,000 tons.
King Victor Emmanuel of Italy, re
turned to Home from the front.
Fire in the Crowell lumber yard at
Newark, N. J., caused $45,000 damage.
Not one of the 53 sugar beet fac
tories in Kusdian Poland is now in op
eration. The Northern Pacific Railroad Is re
ported to be in the market lor l.OuO
light box cars.
Newton D. Baker left Cleveland foi
Wa.shiliKoli iu uuL.es as
Secn-iaiy of War.
Under-Secretary of War Tennant
announced that there are 13.2S1 Ger
man prisoners in Kngland.
Portions of a Zeppelin pro pel I or were
picked up In Kent. England, and turn
ed over to tho military autlio.lt.es.
Great Britain is asking Scottish
manufacturers for tenus for more
than 1,000,000 yards of double can van.
The British steamship Hypathia
New York lor Cap-? 'iown, put in at
Hurban, Natal, in a leaking condition.
thrse four oriiint7m ion arp not enm-
coal production which threatened to ; pit tc. it is evident tiiat the vote is
l '"''.' '." ,. H overwneiming.y in lavor oi presenting Dcmandino a 20 ner cent, waae in
j agn oi me munitions ouipui. .u.nny . tu the railway companies of tiie!r. ina, iinii in .Pvvnl ml
housands or e der.y nrn, formerly fniied Stales the reiuoots for the!.., i.- i,n i... i .
......v, .. . ...... . . ... j t-ijiL-uvtii uaj ttii.i num uiiu one-nan :
have now returned to the pits simply . tor overtime. Conseuuentiv the move-
from a patriotic desire to help the ment with that obioct in view will he
carried forward in its regular course
Has No Strike Significance.
"The present vote lias no significance
except as an indication of the desire of
country to win the war, while the re
mainder of the ICO.ono new hands em-
ploved nre mainly boys.
Should only twenty or thirty thous-
and more skilled miners be taken
away for military service, great in
dustrial difficulties may aripe from an
insufficiency of coal production."
Croat Britain will not conduct an
investigation of the sinking of the
British liner I'er.la in the Mediter
ranean.
Mme. Hetoise Ranc, who has been
MEXICAN QUESTION
DISCUSSED IN CONGRESS.
the men rKit Ihi. nultnr .ho. .1.1 k neiu ny t ne mmigration aut nonties at
pressed to a conclusion and all renorts i K'iis Ind for about two weeks, was
ilnit ir h:.si Ki"ninr.iiion utHL-n 1 released.
I
I I
Fall of New Mexico i "" " r.i o. uei noou oi irouve . , . . . i
t he had prepared a firemen ana tnginemen. and w u. . . V " , i., ViV i
authorize recruiting of i '-ee, presicent oi tne lirotnernood or ; " . ". ..'., .
- recruiting o i Sea Lord, attended a Cabinet meeting!
SUO.OOO to Intervene in "allway liammen. k.. in,.i..nM
Senator Fall of New Mexico Wants
Army of 5CO;C03 to Intervene.
Washington, March 9. The Mexican
question broke out in congress late
today. Senator
announced tha
resolution to
an army of
Mexico and aid the existing authorities
In stamping out brigandage, while ni
the house Representative Mondell, re
publican, of Wyoming, started debase
with a epeech attacking the adminis
tration's Mexican policy.
Mr. Mondell declared the govern
ment was not attempting to protect
American citizens and property in
Mexico..
Representative Foster, democrat, of
Illinois, replied vigorously, saying the
president was doing everything possi
ble under the circumstances.
"Do you know that our troops today
have crossed the Mexican line and
that the president has asked the Mex
ican government's permission to send
more troops .in there V asked Repre
sentative Bennet, republican, of New
York.
"If President Wilson has done
that," replied Mr. Foster, 'it is be
cause he is convinced that the time has
come when that ouht to be done."
Mr. Foster told the house that he
was tired of tho talk about involving
the possible loss of thousands of
American young men and millions of
dollars of expense in sending troops
into Mexico to defend the property of
some man who stays back at home and
neither goes to Mexico nor wants his
sons to go.
vote r.re ciTnnc'.iM and misleading. In
the imr.vd.i't - future the requests will
he pre -cisced to thj railway manage
ment and th" iic. esary steps taken to
make tin? xarnc c.lVotive."
Tiie s'.:!ii iwnt was s:gned by W. S.
K:ono, sranJ chief of the Brotherhood
of I.eomotive Kn-ineers: A. I!, (lar
retson, president of t!i" Order of Rail
way Conductors: W. S. Carter, presi-
Dr. Joseph Blake, American surgeon
has been appointed to tho command of
six military hospitals by the French
Government.
A lone robber, unmasked, entered
tho Security State Bank at St. I'aul,
stole $1.00u at the point of a revolver,
and escaped.
U.S.T
m
ROOPS NOW
WTO MEXICO
In Pursuit of Band of Villa Bandits Which Raided
Columbus, N. M.f Yesterday
REPORT OF ACTION 15 MILES SOUTH OF BORDER
Reliably Stated That the Army Will be Given Free Rein to
Catch the Bandits if Possible Latest Report Says Seven
U. S. SolJiers Were Killed, Two Officers and Five Men
Injured Villa's Losses Placed at 100 Killed and 200
Wounded During the Raid of Columbus at Least 16
Americans Were Killed and Many BuQuings Were Fired
250 Troopers of the Thirteenth U. S. Cavalry Followed
the Villa Band Into Mexico Harrowing Experience of
Mrs. Maud Kawk Wright, Who Was Forced to Ac
company Bandits After They Had Killed Her Husband
in Mexico.
Washington. March 9. Washington
stands s.piarely behinj Colonel JSlocum J
if Fi-an.-B.-n Vill. nnri his . .
U. S. Troops en Mexican Soft.
Shocked indignation occasioned by
MYSTERIOUS AIRSHIP OVER
SCOVILLE PLANT, WATERBURY
Created a Sensation at Midnight
Brilliant Light Turned Earthward.
"WTaterbury, Conn., March 9. Flying
high over the plant of the Scoville
Manufacturing company, with its
black bulk outlined against the sky
and with a brilliant light trained to
earthward, a miysterious iaircra?t,
seen by numerous persons about the
Scoville plant, created a sensation just
before midnight tonight. The air
craft sailed peacefully to the east
ward, with the bright light burning
visibly until It became a tiny speck in
the distance.
Guards around the Scoville plant
were thrown into a turmoil. When the
aircraft was first discovered, it seem
ed to he hovering directly above the
Scoville factory. "While the guards
and workmen were standing open
mouthed, glancing skyward, the big
shape was soen to move slowly anij
then more raipidly across the heaverjr,
disappearing finally.
Several of the guards reported they
had jieen the aircraft, which trained
Its I'lrhts down on the factories in the
Nauiatuck valley, but could not dis
tinguish without glasses whether the
prowling craft was a balloon or a
dirigible or a heavier-than-air ma
chine of monoplane type.
The first appearance of the aircraft
Indicated that It had coursed from the
Westward over the lorjre manufactur
ing plants of the city, casting it
bright lights downward, moved more
flowly over the plants than when it
bad cleared the Scoville property to
the eastward.
The watchman at the main gate of
he Scoville plant was the discoverer
it the mysterious draft. He immedi
ately spread the alarm and guards
libout the factory were informed of
Ihe aircraft hoverimr over the factor.
tes. They could easily distinguish the
Jgnts on trie raovm? craft rnd watch
W It until the light faded into the
(est They corroborate the watchman
lully.
U. S. WANTS COPY OF
BRITISH INSTRUCTIONS
To Commanders of British Merchant
Vessels Request Sent.
"Washington, March 9. The United
States has asked Great Eritain for a
copy of the confidential Instructions
to commanders of British merchant
vessels, which Germany claims prove
that merchantmen armed ostensibly
for defensive purposes, have orders to
act offensively against German and
Austrian submarines. The request is
understood to have been made today
throush .Sir Cii Spring-Rice, the
British ambassador.
This is the ii.st step the United
States has taken since administration
officials began studying the complete
memorandum, in which Germany an
nounced its intention to treat as war
ships armed merchantmen the entente
allies, ita appendices, and the subse
quent memoranda on the subject sub
mitted by Count Von Bernstorff, the
German ambassador.
There were strong intimations to
night that the British government
later would be given an opportunity
to answer all the German charges
and to comment upon the twentv in
cidents where Germany claims defen
sively armed ships have acted offen
sively toward submarines of the cen
tral European powers.
g to .lr. Stone, returns not
in cannot possibly affect the result.
The demands in a few days will be
presented to the railroads, and they
will have thirty days in which to make
reply.
Roads Intend to Fight.
Tho roads havo mado it plain that
they intend ot fight the proposed con
ditions. Upon their refusal to accede
to the ree.ue.sts, which is taken as a
foregone conclusion, committees reprc-
Fred Oakley, universally known as
"Slivers" the dean of American clowns,
committed silcide in a New York the
atrical boarding house.
The United Ststss gunboat Marietta
arrived at Vera Cruz. On rntcring
port she fired a slute, which was re
turned by Mexican batteries.
Four hundred officers and sailor of
seuLing rem Biues wi.i De appointea ; the four German steamers szed at
to negotiate a settlement If possible ! Ixuirenco Marques. l'ortugues East
The railroads, it is said, will insist
upon arbitration under the Erdman
act If the private negotiations faiL
GEN.
CALLES TO SUPERVISE
CAMPAGIN AGAINST VILLA.
To Remain Near Border Until Villa is
Killed or Driven to Other Fields.
East Africa, have been interned.
The Union Steamship Co.' steamer
Oamosun. which ran aground on T ghy
Island, U. C li expected to be a total
loss. Her passengers were saved.
In pursuit
band of outlaws Xkfco raided Columbus.
N. M.. today, murdering American
soldiers and citizens nad firing the
town.
Secretary Lansing tonight Informed
the de facto government of Mexico,
through i:ii:--eo 'ArrcUondo, Its am
bassador here, that he trusted no ob
jection would be made to the action
of the American troops, they having
followed what is known In military
circles as a "hot trail." No orders
have been Issued for tho return of tha
soldiers, and it is not probable any
wiil bo issued for the present.
meceeded by undisguised satisfaction
in official and congressional circles
over the knowledge that after thre
years of patient forbearance United
States troo; actually were on Mexi
can soil to avenge the death of their
comrades and to bring; to Justice the
outlaws whoM depredations have ter
rorized Americana on both side of the
border.
Nothing Heard from Troop.
Reports that the American troooers
kwere in action tonight probably li
(Continued on Page Eight)
ABSENCE OF MACHINE GUNS
TO MEET THE VILLA ATTACK
Held Responsible for the Escape of
tha Kanrtif. Wi-h I
.... .... (
El Paso, Texas. March S. Failure 'o:
the machine guns to work at the be
ginning of the fight between the Vilia
bandits and the Thirteenth Cavalry
at Columbus early this morning wa
TO BAR FOREIGNERS FROM
THE DIPLOMATIC SERVICE.
One of the Provisions, in Consular Ser-
v..- bin bcfe- Jh -,3us.
Douglas, Ariz., March 9. General P.
El;a3 Cailes, military governor of So-
nora who nrrivpd at nta Priptn ihA
-Mexican town opposite here, late to- i luniut-u
One American citizen and seven
British subjects from the German de- j responsible for the ewvipe of the Vill i
tentlon camp at llnh'i ben. arrived at ! bar.dits across the border and also fur
Rotterdam, on their way to England, j the. relativfly smill lo-s of life smnn;
I Hi-m. according to I'rivate Thomas
Earl Curzon cf Kedleston, IjOri oflilarton. of the hospital corps. w:ii.
the Privy Seal, is con'ined to Us home; with Private E. M. Johnson, brought
CONGRESSMAN TILSON TO
REPRESENT CONNECTICUT.
Germany gives formal
assurance to turkey.
frtat She Win Not Make Peace With
out Compensation to Turkey.
Odessa, via London. March 9, 6. 35
L xnv It Is reported here that Ger
many has given formal assurance to
Purkey that she will not "make a
(sace without compensation to Tur
jey and that Turkey has consented to
pnd Turkish troops to assist the Ger
Bans on the western front. Sever
p engineering1 regiments have been
withdrawn from Asia Minor to Con-itantlnople.
Snow SqualTs Prevented Trials.
Rockland, Me., March. 9. .Snow
nualle again today prevented tho com
etlon of the torpedo boat destroyer
orterB standardization trials which
ere Interrupted by a storm yesterday,
id a third attempt will be made to
oxroiw. , - .
i
SENATE TAKES UP
TILLMAN'S ARMOR BILL
To Provide for a Government Armor
Plate Plant.
"Washington. March 9. The senate
today voted, 55 to 10, to take up Sen
ator' Tillman's bill to provide for the
purchase or construction of a govern
ment armor plate plant.
Unanimous consent to vote on the
bill on March 21 was secured after a
heated colloquy between Senators Gal-
linger and Swanson Senator Gallin
ger threatened to filibuster against the
bill to delay a vote until the return of
Senator Lodge, a member of the nav
al committee who, he said, had ex
pected to speak In opposition and who
would be absent on Important business
ten days more.
On the 1916 Republican Congressional
Campaign Committee.
Washington. March 9. Republican
senators and representatives at a
conference tonieht in the house cham
ber agreed on the membership of the
1916 congressional campaign commit
tee and discussed informally what
Btepc should be taken t oregaln con
trol of congress at the November elec
tions. It was understood after the meet
ing adioumed that Representative
Frank P. Woods of Iowa would be re
elected chairman of the . committee
when it meets in a day or two to
organize and that Representative
William B. McKinley of Illinois, a
former chairman, would be made head
of an executive sub-committee. This
arrangement, it was s:ud. had been
arcepted as satisfactory by both
wings of the party.
The Connecticut representative on
the committee is Congressman J. Q.
Tilson of New Haven.
SCANDINAVIAN COUNTRIES
HOLD A CONFERENCE
For Genera
day, :aid he had come to supervise the
campaign against t ranclsco Viila and
his forces should they enter Sonora.
"I will remain until Villa has been
killed, captured or driven into some
other part of Mexico," he declared to
night. "I have plenty of troops to
protect the Sonora border and the min
ing camps wlthi nthe state. I have
nothing to say about what the de facto
government will do If the United
States troops neter Mexico. That is a
matter which rests entirely with Gen
eral Carranza."
General Calles said he had ordered
the garrison at Huachinera. Ravtepe
and Bacer.-.c. Sonora. on the Chihuahua
state border, to mobilize Immediately
and make every nedeavor to cut off
Villa's- retreat into the mountain re
gions. He said 600 cavalrymen were
available for that purpose.
PASQUAL ZUPPA WAS
HANGED AT WETHERSFIELD
For the Murder of Antonio Corsi at
Guilford Last Fall.
left elbow, the result of an accident.
Frederick Beck & Co.. dealers in wall
paper, filed a voluntary petition in
bankruptcy yesterday, giving liabilities
at about $500,000 and assets at about
$200,000.
A report received at coast guard
headquarters states that the schooner
Edwad Stewart has gone on the rocks
off Northeast Harbor, Jle, and Is
breaking up.
The sixth annual distribution of
bonuses to Its employes was made by
the Yonngstown Sheet & Tube Co..
more than $;."OOno being divided
among 5,000 employes.
Discussion of
cial Difficulties.
Comr
EXPLOSIONS IN COLLIERY
NEARWILKESBARRE.
Soveral Men Killed Second Explosion
Caught Rescuing Party.
Copenhagen, March 9, via London.
The premiers and foreign ministers of
Norway and Sweden arrived here to
day to attend the conference of the
foreign ministers of Scandinavian
countries which was suggested bv the
king of Sweden. The first meeting
with the Danish minister was held at
the palace, after an audience with
King Christian.
The purpose of the conference Is a
general discussion of the commercial
difficulties which the war has brought
to the Scandinavian nations, and also
to obtain concerted action In dealing
with the belligerent powers.
The press comment on the confer
ence agrees that there is nothing acute
In the relations of the northern coun
tries with the warring powers, but
that the deliberations are likely to
have widespread effect.
Wllkcsharre, Pa., March 9. Several
men were killed In two explosions at
the Hollenback. Lehigh and
barre Coal company colliery here late
today. The second explosion caught a
rescuing party. One body has been
brought out.
The accident occurred In the first
deep gangway in No. 6 Red Ash slope
of Hollenback No. 2 colilerv, about
8,000 feet from tha foot of the shaft.
An official said at lo o'clock that six
men lost their lives. The cause of
the accident has not yet been deter-
minea., Mngton.
- j ------
WAR SECRETAY BAKER
HAS TAKEN OFFICE,
Oath of Administration and Introduc
tions Made to Staff Officers.
"Washington, March 91 Newton D.
Baker -was sworn In today as secretary
of war. The oath was administered
by John Randolph, assistant chief
who has been with the department
for nearly nrty years, and has admin
istered the oath to many of Mr.
Baker's predecessors.
Mr. Baker was accompanied to the
department by Secretary Daniels, who
Introduced him to the staff officers
there and to Gen. Scott, chief of staff
who had been secretary of war ad
interim since tne resignation of Sec.
retary Garrison, on February 10.
Soon after taking- the oath. Secre
tary Baker held an informal reception
at Ms office, where he met most of
"WethcrsfioUl, Conn.. March 10. Pas
quale Zuppa of Guilford was hanged
in the state prison here early this (Fri
day) morning for the murder of An
tonio Corsi last fall.
Zupna killed his friend Antonio Cor
si at Gni!ford on the morning of Sep;
tember 6. 1!MR for the purpose of rob
bery. He waylaid him. struck htm
upon he head with a sto"e and then
sabbed him mmv times with a knife.
Faillnc- to f.nd the money he had ex
pected. Znnna became enraeed. It was
charged snd mutilated the bodv.
After the crime Znnna went to New
TIaven. where he wao nrresfed. A
sreedv trial followed fld unon h'n
eonvlction Jndce William L. TIenneTt
of the snnerior court sentenced him to
be hanered
J'liTirn wps n vein old and h-d few
known frirndi. TT1s fnthr and mother
are living in Italy. D-irlng his con
finement In rr1on no on came to see
him. other h.m a priest.
Private William Tunks, of the Lei
cestershire regiment, now In FVanft
hs aked the liritish government for
an tnrrcawd war allowance due to the
arrival of triplets to his home.
Mayor Curley of Boston announced
'hat he will baek former Mavnr John
T. Fitzgerald, his old po'it'cal oppon
ent, as candidate for United States
Senator to succeed Senator Lodge.
The qi'nntity of whut held in Jn-
live wounded soldiers and one otliter
to El i'.i'-o this afternoon.
According to the men. the attack
!eg;-.n near the edge of Columbus.
There were no guns or weapons of
any kind in the hospital. Johnson
said he killed one Viila bandit wi h
an axe which he threw ns th fle-in ;
Mexican .ased the hospital shouiin;-,:
"Vila Villa."
Johnson also said the body of Pat-lo
Ixipez. Villa's lieutenant, who directed
the massacre of the eighteen Ameri
cans nt S-int Ysabel. two months ago.
was Identified. He exhibited what he
said were Lopez's legins.
Private James Venner, Troop K. who
was shot through the chest, says he
killed four Mexicans and was raising
his rifle to fire at another when, a
bullet struck him down. He says miny
of the guns used by the bandits were
22-calibre rifles and others were of
ancient models. The Villa men. l-.e
said, were without machine guns.
A WIFE-E EATING PHYSICIAN
HORSEWHIPPED BY MOB.
Summary Justice Dealt Dr. C. W.
Kemery of Allenville, III.
Decatur. Ill, March 9. A party of
Washington. March . Provisions in
bar all foreigners from the diplomatic
and consular service In any position
whatever was written Into the dlplc-
i mat:c and consular bill today by the
nouse foreign affairs committee. With
another provision that the president
may designate any ranking secretary
o fan cm Massy as counsellor, to rank
with foreign diplomatic officials, the
bill, carrying $5,000,000. was ordered
favorably reported to the house.
Under the new provisions foreigners
could be employed as vice consuls, as
now is the custom, only until Ameri
can citizens could be found for the
posts.
There are now JI foreigners employ
ed as vice consuls of the L'nlted States.
The new policy received the sanction
of the state department.
AN ADDITIONAL VICE
PRESIDENT OF N. H. ROAD.
terior mills and rlcv.Vors In the ' masked men dragged Dr. C. W. Kemery
rrom h.s home in Allenville today, tied
him to a pole and horsewhipped him.
The physician. It was alleged, had
beaten his sick wife. She is suffering
from pneumonia and Is in a critical
condition.
Kemery was arrested and charged
with attempted murder.
United S'a'es on March 1st was near
ly twice that held n ye:ir aco, accord
ing to a report yesterday by the nu
reau of crop estlrea'es. The total Is
estimated at iri.911.ono bushels. I.ast
yenr It wn 5.9SS 000 and two years
ago 92. SSI.oon bushels.
MANHATTAN LIMITED TRAIN
CRASHED INTO FREIGHT WRECK.
$30,000 CONTRIBUTION
TO CONSCIENCE FUND.
Received Todav by Treasury Depart
ment In Registered Package.
"Warhlnp-ton. March 9. A thlrtv-
thousnnd-doliar contribution to tie
treasury's conscience fund, the
tnrp-est ever received, came by to
davs mall in a registered package
mr!'ed yesterday morning In New
York. Under separate cover ram a
eter unslemed. dated Philadelphia
hut mMled In New York, which an
nounced the sending of the $30,000, and
exp'ained that the sender had restored
to the government SO.OOO In all.
The money came In a strong linen
envelope and was wrapped In a layer
of thick brown paner. There wr
eifhty-flve $100 M1W. twenty-one S500
hills, and eleven $l,ono Mils. Most of
them were gold certificates.
Fifty Miles West of Harrisburg
Every Car Derailed Engineer and
Fireman Buried Under Debris.
Altoona. Ta.. March 9. The Man
hattan I.fmitcdi train r.f the Pennsyl
vania railroad, bo-.ind from New York
to Chleairo. crashed in'o a freicht
wreck near Port Royal, fiftv miles
west of Harrihtirg. tonisrht. derailing
every car of the passereer train and
hurl'ng the loeomotive down an em
bankment. The enriner and fireman
of the limited were buried tinder their
engine ar.d ore believed to have been
killed. AH the passengers were bad
ly Fhaken up and several slightly in
jured but so far as can be ascertain
ed none was seriously hurt.
PUSH BUTTON AT EVERY SEAT
ON NEW PRE-PAYMENT TROLLEY
GRAND OPERA TO FEATURE
YALE COMMENCEMENT.
Metropolitan Opera Company to Pre
sent "Die Walkyrie" in the Bowl.
Catholic Priests Transferred.
Hartford. Conn., March 9. The fol
lowing oIEclal appointments were an
nounced tonight by Bishop John J.
Nllan of tho Roman Cathollo diocese
of Hartford: Rev. Stanislaus Blaze
Jowskl of St. Stanislaus' church, Mer
lden, to the Church of the Sacred
Heart. Suffield: Rev. George Bartlewskl
the army officers stationed In Wash- of Sacred Heart church, Suffleld, to SL
. Stanislaus church, Mertden.
JCew Haven. Conn., March 9. An
nouncement was made tonight that
during commencement week at Yale
this June the Metropolitan Opera com
pany of New York will present Wag
ner's opera "Die Walkyrie" in the Yale
bowl.
SPAIN HAS SEIZED
THE WHEAT SUPPLY
Government la to Sell Grain at Fair
Prices Move to 8top Food Riots.
Madrid. Spain. March 9, yia Paris,
11.25 a. m. The government has or
dered the seizue of all the wheat stock
In Spain, and the resale of the grain
at lair prices, as a measure to allay
the agitations and disorders In various
parts ot tne country.
Decided Upon After Conference With
Utilities Commission.
Hartford. Conn.,. March 9. At a
conference with the public utilities
commission today, Supt. John K. Pun
dorforJ of the Connecticut company
agreed to equip the new pre-paymem
trolley cars which are in use at New
Haven. Bridgeport and Hartford with
push buttons at every seat. Pending
this outfitting, straps at each scat will
connetc with the bell rope.
E. J. Pearson, Formerly of the T. & P.
Railroad, Appointed.
New York. March 9. The appoint
ment of E. J. Pearson, formerly of the
lexas and Pari lie railroad. M an ad
ditional vice president of the New
lorle, .ew Haven and Hartford rail
road, was announced at the New Ha
ven offices here today. He will be gen
eral assistant to President Howard
Elliott, with headquarters In Boston,
and will have charge of matters relat
ing to construction, operation and
maintenance.
ESTABLISHMENT OF A
NITRIC ACID PLANT
Is Proposed in a Bill Introduced by
Senator Myers.
Washington. March 9. Establish
ment of a nitric a-id plant for the nse
of the government Is making explo
sives was proposed In a bill today by
Ser.ator Myers. A commission would
investigate whether the fl ithead power
project near Poison. Mont., is suitable
for production of cheap hydro-electric
rower to operate an atmospheric nitro
gen p'ant.
The plant would be operated In tlmo
of peace principally for the production
of fertilizer.
THIRTY CARRANZA SOLDIERS
EXECUTED BY BANDITS
Commanded by Colonel Torreon
Throe Days Ago Near Torreon.
Laredo, Texas, March . Thirty or
more Carranza soldiers, including a
number of officers, were executed by
bandits thro days ago near Torreon.
according to authentic Information re
ceived here tonight. The bandits
were reported to be adherents of Gen
eral Villa and commanded by Colone'i
Chacon.
Movements of Steamships.
FayaL March 8. Arrived: Steamer
Glueppe Verdi, New York for Genoa.
Liverpool. March 8. Arrived:
Steamer Tuscania, New York for
Glasgow.
Falmouth March 9. Arrived:
Steamer Nleu Amsterdam. Xew York
for Rotterdam.
Xew York. March 9. Signalled:
Steamer Csarttza, Kola Bay via aHl-
irar ror ew lone, ojock g.3o a. m.
Friday.
Naples, March 9. Sailed: Steamer
Casertn, New lorlc
NATIONAL HOUSEWIVES
TO BOYCOTT SUGAR.
Communication Sent Out to All
Branches of the League.
Cincinnati! Ohio. March 9. The
VnMcnal Housewives' Cooperattivo
eagiie at a meefi-e here lodir de
'ared a "boycott" on suear and sent
''iit communications to all branches of
he league as well as to other women's
-wit-tie urging cooperation In this
movement. The league claims that
housewives nse ninety per cent, of the
sugnr consumed In the United State
nd obiect to the higher price that
hev now have to pay for this commodity.
OBITUARY.
Samuel 8. Greeley.
Chicago. March 9. Samuel S. Gree
ley. 92 years old. said to have been the
oldest alumnus of Harvard university,
died at the home of his daughter here
early today. Mr. Greeley, a civil en
gineer, was graduated from Harvard in
the class of 1844, and was one of four
men who organized the Harvard club
of Chicago In 1857.
To Probo Army Aviation Service.
Washington, March 9. The senate
'oday passed the Robinson resolution
or a congressional Investigation of
fhe aviation service of the army aris
ing from charges against the condur-t
if the aviation station at San Diego.
Calif. The resolution now goes to the j
houe. . '
.JArril..'tHfriii
