GERMANS SMASH AT ANOTHER VERDUN FORT
WEATHER Clair to-nlflht and 8turdy. ColuV
EDITtON
" Circulation Books Open to AJ1."
" Circulation Hooka Open to All."
PRICE ONE CENT. M& WVZXr"' NEW YORK, FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1916.
20 PAGES PRICE ONE CENT.
MMML
M
V
it
VILLA DEAD OR ALIVE,
AS U. S. TROOPS ENT
IS ORDER
EXICO
ER
BERLIN ADITS DX FORT
IS NOW IN FRENCH HANDS;
NEVER TAKEN, PARIS ASSERTS:
Verdun Lines Hold and Situation Is
Unchanged, Says Paris Report
German Aeroplanes Destroyed in
Fights Over Two Battlefields.
HKHI.IN. March l (a l-ondou) Capture- of tlic- Aliluln Wood wo
announce! to-lay by Ucrmun Army Headquarters. It wan BtatuU that the
J'rencli bud ruKatned a foothold lu tbo fort ot Vaux.
f Ablalu St. Nazalro la In the Lens repion, near the northerly end of tho
fiattlci lino In FTanco.
The announcement also saya that Gennnn troop havu advanced south'
can of D.iiiilouii, cloHiiiR In on Fort do Vavann-?. east of Verdun
"ill; ilir ,,is'ern Kins of I'm
M it. hi! iiit; the i im. mi;
Curl km ii wood nnt 'iini:
t rendu h m llolbincourt, w tout;
kii nf fliers, GS1 men and II can
non. "A lila in wood and tho rldim
wst nf Uiiuaumont worn tuKi'ti
f i "in ii my after ntiibborn
flSMtin; In the Woen- plain
u- .ii.s,, iiuliril toiwftid niir lino
niri'iiKli ilif voi..i'il Kii-tor to Ui
southeast or D.unloup.
"Tin; Prnni'li delivered . NlrmiB
counter nttiu-ks against our new
front oast and south of tho vIIIoro
of Vnux mil In the nelshlMirhood
of tho fort. TIim Prcneh suc
ceeded ii ncaln iilitaiuini: .1 firm
looliiiK m tlm armoro'l fort itself.
Otherwise Uioir attacks wi ro re
ptllm d vith he.ivv losses"
"Onr battle .ivi.it" s bhot ilium ti' i
Jlrlttnh neroplutie: - n r.ncly. one mon
oplane near WytKchaetc. niiitli nf
Tyres, and one blpl.nn' to t.nc north
east of I .a Hansen. Tho occupant uf
he first ncrnplano was foun.l dead.
"In the month of February 'he .'
tlvlty of our nlr units, .in reK.irds .0
tackH and the number of then- fir
onachlnB fiutiiioii nni? motui ti.il
f-qU.lrtroll expeditions Imhitld ill"
my front, was considerably uro ilei
than before.
"Tllt following Kchedlllc ilui nhlv
BfpUn proven our superiority, hut auto
j of ute.- tho assertion beloved by our
opponents that our losses In aerial
ivarfaro nro ho small becuu.ni our
aeroplanes do not duro to tly over
enemy lined, German loss's on tbe
ivnBtern front Uiirlnu tin' month nf
J-'cbruary amount in nniir In iiilal
Inttlci, UOIK' l) lull.' 'lint I'm il 111''
ground, tux iiiihmmu; in. i . T.h
I'rcnoh and Unioli li.ui- hut IS m
frial hattlts, C b heum hlvt f'uiii
oartli, 3 by forced LuiiIIiik within our
4tnes; total, 31.
"It mttst bu observed that we have
halted our ilfrurea only on nun-bines
which have fallen Into out bunds or
""hlch have been ol.i-.-, c ct t( f.ill In
flames, find nut mi nuiuirnii.s nihi'i
nitichlncs -lim ln n L. Inn I :hi' i in'
my llnr."
VERDUS LINKS HOLD
AFTER NIGHT RATTLES,
SAYS FRENCH REPORT.
PARIH (via London). M.uvh in.
Theru wan no ebanice m the (iltuii
tlon before Vi rdun. ntl.i ':.
vent of thu M line, ii- ml.tr t" .
ruml'Ofriil.'il nf. n n i
l.f re thlH .ii'te. in ' T ii 1 ' ' '
mcnt addti i li.t ihe ,- 1 '
ment contlnuea on hnth n n1 "
Oontlnued on Fourth face.)
BRITAIN'S FOES KILL
3,153 NON-COMBATANTS
Premier Asquith Makes Public Loss
if I ife in Air anJ Co.tbt Raids
;iinl on Steamship?.
l.oSIKiN. March 10 -Tae num'ir
i'f nun riniiti Viits hilled by llieit
Iti il;i ! h'h cnr. nf b '.inco t h" bi'Slnnri.;
of llif ..u .icKteeatPM 3.151, l'reniir
Atqulili irotu in ! pl I" a ro'imvit
for luferinutlon by Major Iluntor.
rortj-nlno men, 39 women and 39
children were killed In coast bom
Imrdtnents; 127 men, 9: women and
." elilldren were killed In air raids.
Approximate 2,750 tion-contbatuntn
lost their liven en llntish nieri haiu '
and IIhIiiiir vo.iel.i hot ween Auk. 1.,
19H. and M.ucli 1, isn,, but di talloj i
llRUres it" mil a lliillln I
PRESERVED FRUITS
BARRED FROM ENGLAND
LONDON, March lO.-ln tho I'rlvy
I'ooinil : -.l.iy Klnu neorsn aisneil
thi . -ji- 'id jiro. I. mi. it. on piohilntlnj;
lt"l'"rt. f .f i i v.. I frin w
AMERICAN SAILORS
CLASH WITH GERMANS
IN CONSTANTINOPLE
IWDO.V, March 10. Tho Athens
correspondent or tho UxchuiiKu Tele.
Kraph cabled to. day that it wa re.
pnned there ripeateil Htrect flchtu
hml iH'cuiieil licfni'n t!i, A mi fieri n i
r.mniiMt v .ii i '"iv , i ttui.,n
lAmi'tii in ni, I t ' . n 1 1 : .1 1 -ruin' .
; riots in ulogm:
OVER YERIHjS LOSSES,
IS HOLLAND REPORT
u&X'"MVl&m SENDS GEN. FIINST0N
ACROSS BORDER AFTER BANDIT
Cabinet Quickly Decides to Order Punitive Invasion of
Not Less Than 8,000 U. S. Soldiers as Result of
Columbus Massacre Action Without Carranza's
Consent, but No Intervention Is Intended.
(Special to The Evonlnu World.)
WASHINGTON, March 10 "Villa dead or alive" is the policy of the United States
Government in relation to the Columbus, N. A., massacre.
The following statement was issued at the White House:
"An adequate force will be sent at once in pursuit of Villa with the
single object of capturing him and putting a stop to his forays.
"This can be done and will be done in entirely friendly aid of the constituted
authorities in Mexico, and with scrupulous respect for the sovereignty of
that republic."
Following a mcctini; of the Cabinet at which it was''
FRCpdRiuf
t.'.i i ' l' f il'-rlcl. I'linitnn is the youngfsi major fienral In
n I nitnl Si. i, is ,inn. lie wa-s a newspaper man In Washington
bi fo.'o lie entered tl.c army for the Spanish American War and tho
Filipino liiNttrtectlou. lie explored Al.inku for the Department of
Agriculture and was an olPetr In tlm Cuban Insurgent army. He
went to tbo Philippines as commander ot thu Twentieth Kaunas
Volunteers and li.stt!Wilhel himself by lending his command across
tlie Kin Clrninle lllor nt (.'alunipit under firo and by the capture of
llmllm AkUln ildo. chief of the. relx l'.i mlM"ti very like ttiat on
ivhn h Ii s t . -. 1 1 . llif home is nt lol i, Kan. lie i, a li'tlr ovei
flfti . .If n!.l.
AMSTMItDAM f in london), March
10. Tho TebRraaf 'it.it es that it hns
receheil riiiirls of serious noting In,
i'oliKtll. nil TllSi.l I 11,1 HI I mm .
in- ii' i'
' "'I'- "
II 1M'S ,
III t ill- I
.st I .1 ;, I
I i ,1' .1 i
I,l
III'!.' '
1 , !,,
.Vl'l il '
'' Ii I 111
I'll' I II
ll . (lilt
I' I' e I III ll,"
I lie i I nn ils.
I
GERMAN CASUALTIES
2,B67,372!SAYS LONDON
Total Hsiires for the War Sakt to
Have Hccn Made l!p 1-rom
Oiiui.il I.n .
lNION. VI ii V ill nc I't
nllii ill 1 1' rin.ia i . ." ! n w li.i h
'1 ,M re ii "'il I It l"H I1" 'i't '! 'f 'i"i -n
an ca-U'ltiiM f" I i I'fii.in wi.s
SS. IKS Tins I. rings ni' ttn total for
tho w.it, a.- howu in I in -i hfcis, to
2.667,7i.
WILSON A CANDIDATE
IN BAY STATE PRIMARIES
I'u'-i.ti'iii Wiro . i.M 'i in si ite
( "niivitit"; in !hi' I ' e ni Mi
Name In IJeles w-.
HOSTt)N, March la.-I'n.sldent Wll
un in a telegram to-day to ieere
tary of ritato A. P. Laim'try utithor
l7.ed the use of his n.ime In the Miui.
sachu.snttH PreHldentlal primaries on
April 1'5. Tho message was in re
Hpnnse t. ono ."tent yci.n-1 d.'t li S i -r.
tn r I..itiKtr callniL attention to n
t . . i.uije in lie iiirn.ii" l.iw
v . i . 1 1 ii 1 1 u 1 1 e, I i"il I ill . i s til He
I il nil in in '.I'll lie II..
,i 1 1 i i in- I 'i i .iji'iit Wil-nii -leh
ui'am s i. as fnll'iws.
"While I am entirol) unwilllin; to
enter Into ati mutest for the Presi
dential nomination of tho Democrntlo
Party, 1 am wIIHijk to permit tho u.so
of any namn that tho Democrats of
Massachusetts may mako known
their in'i ferinees lu tejr.iril to that
nomln.it .nn. I hereliv 'nn.eni, tliern-
nre, I" t In U.'.e ot Hi , II. Ill ' .im a
, , null'!. it I'T Pis -el
I I ' , . i U i i i
.'1.1 i.
TRAFFIC INTO MEXICO
HALTED BY SOLDIERS
Extra Guards of Regular Troops
Guard Bridges I-'rom El Paso
to Juaav.
111. PA.so, fox., Miucli 10. tiuards
at the International bridRes ln'o
Jti.ire, IntMi been heavily ttn riMSi d,
and to-dny thrco companies are under
arms at tho camp ot tho Sixteenth
Infantry.
Hlrcot car traflc bntweon Kl Paao
anu Juarez was stopped last night at
tr.o miKKeation of (Jen. PershliiK', who
has taken additional precautions here
ncalust the possibility ot an attack oy
Villa.
A spuilal ti.nn ot Mnniiiins fr-.-n
tho i'.i.s.ik lir.nides dlstiir: of i In
huatiiia ,s due to-ilm as a result
warnlni; lanied hy hpe, ;,i iiii. ,.
Kr. The were warned that il
llstan in i hue threat t extormln e
all Americans, mlKht reiieat (hi
Columbus massacro at Casus (irand';
Thero wero 500 Mormons in thu ro.
Blun, which Is only 100 mllen from
Columbus.
unanimously decided that the Columbus massacre must be
avenged nnd Villa must be removed as a factor for evil along
the Rio Cirande, President Wilson issued an order to the War
Department to send a punitive expedition of 8,000 men or
more under the command of Gen. Fredericlv l-'unslon into
Mexico without delay.
Gen. Hugh L. Scott, Chief of Staff, with members of the
General Staff and Secretary of War Baker, spent the after
noon in preparing plans for the expedition. While the War
College has worked out minute pluns for an invasion of
Mexico in the event of war the plan of sending in a punitive
expedition for the sole purpose of capturing Villa and elimi
nating brigandage in northern Mexico brought up an
entirely new problem.
In the event that Villa, by appealing to the ignorant
I
INJUNCTION
MAY SIOP PARADE
ON PATRICK'S DAY
i
in
i. i. .
1 1.
.ni.
FRENCH A ERO PLANES
UOMUARD RAILROA US
CARRYING MUNITIONS
,MSTh:i:tM (vi. i l...iidiitn, Mor. i
In HIS I I 'li ll -n 1 ni' n.i'.'. r.li'P'il tin
i , iv , !,. . i i h" v
ii.ii. iii I. i , . ; .i ; ii 'n.
! ui , e . i I'" ' P I , I .1. ...
Mi ml ' i T.. I i ' . .i ....lii.j '
,n .' ' t le I ' Ii I .t.i I. 'I in
droppi i niiii humus nul mused ex.
tuiiblvo damage. All returned safely.
Li.ii.
,1 lll,i nel
RECORD DEMAND FOR STEEL
( iiriioriitloii nnoniiee I ' (1 1 1 ! Or.
iters for s, nils, mill Tims on
.Inn, ttl, HIM.
The I'nlied Mnii.i Steel I'orpnrntlon
isi ii''iil ,i -i it in ti ' II nt tlii'i'p
ill, n iMO'l. lull 'I lllttill.''! n',(MH
i .r i. i., ini. i- Hit Itrn" i
h n i ,'i -I ... 'Ii i - i . r !,, j
. i i
VI ' ' -' 'i" ' . i 'i . ,v ii
i 'i it...-. i .!',: i , i, ni-.
Mi ) .in I r . 'n
hi' line I nl iij held h th
msteiiii til nt Pi n 3i. 1313, which
lUtcd 1, 3I5.S71 Loam
SKEETERS SHUN HIM;
AGAINST WAR ON 'EM
A. C. ks Sav.s Salt W.uei Mn
quitoes Aie Harmless 1-iglib
Jamaica Hay Appropriation.
Archibald C. Weeks rntnatod to
tho Iloanl of Kstlmato BK.ilnst the
exriendlturo of llio.nrio im- rnerniulto
nxtermlnatlnii, partli-ularly m the i
suit marshes of Junuiie.i !.i '
' S.I It W.lti'l no.VUlt'H,s lie pi r
!' i ilv i:,i ml. . nl i . i .
.,h .t nil ii'inin i .i. .ir lie". i iw'h'iir
ivindnw si H ens ,in,l they never Ijntti-
up d 111" 1 1 .ill '
"MuMliiltoirt are afraJd of snrnn
people," commt'iitisl Alderman l)ol
lmr. Thv 5160.000 wiih iiiproinatei.
nntifit
tSfrniun lUst
Ailtiinee In
Afrlrn,
I.OS'DO.V. Mnreh 10 -l.lmitntiint
Oneral Jan I'linntlan .Smiitc, eom
nmnd.iiK P;i i vi illilnn iiiralt'-i !
nine I'Ih.,1 Nfrh ii, Ini. re,orte( the
. , i ii,it i n d I 'i i ' .i. nnl ii t in ,,r
Si a t, , 11 fl v l-ff, il!, H 11 Hull ri ,J
I I, I ii ' i. I lli. nn
his ri.it i lit ii.s ro u ii.ii nil i,imi;s
.ill r -1114 I I I4la ti i 'i -,ll.'A. .'.'A.
n. 111 nj lt.r4iur 41 'I lit Sr.-lH Tintl iluitl.
tli, fullucr llVuM) ll'Mlrt, MU3 Tut
factions .Can't Aprec Sixty
ninth Won't Turn Out
Unless There Is Harmony.
., had been fe,ind b '.'insc dejlr
,np h.irnnmy al tlm tiroposi d inrade
nn Ht. I'atrlek's Day o ti" rotopllea.
Men came on the miiiic to. day.
I.iwyvr J. Power Donnollan nf No.
110 Nassau Htrect, actmB for Hod
1 1 ,ok .T. Kennedy, ot from Supreme
r.irt .lusttce Pinch .1 miindamus to
,.'Mie Commissioner Won'l- 'n nhnw
.'. why he should not nivi r"
l.i ml to the "ii'KuIni An ln l"i'
.f Hibernians," of which h medy 1.1
Piesident.
At the samo time Juntiro Kiium
signed an injunction for Donnellan
e.illlnK on Coroner Timothy llealy.
(,T,-ind mursbal-elect of the 1st. Pat
rlrk'H Day parade, and the "An.nint
Order of Hibernians, New Vorlt t'oun
ty," to show ruuse wh.v 'he slnninl
noi he est 1,1 1 11 i I fron pnfldtiiK
tin 'An' ei( I) ler n l l.f n'.i'iM "
rins .iiU'in niivti, tli' nai'ie
pi. 1 ns .1 1 . v ! i.i a 11 1 li 1 . I
ier 1 1 nin 1 .11 d mil 1 .11 .1" tli
Weir. lieiiPii l.ui'dn ,i'id M"
ft tb MbiUAtora. When Mr. Dun-
nfllnn't attention was onlhsl to the
Matemont that Ciirdlnal l-'nrlny had
endeavored to sot both ddes to
Kethor, he nald:
j "Neither '11 nil nnl Porley nor Mr
1 l-ivelln van ulTcti tlm poll, los of 1 1.
I older. D duesn t matter what iin
1 bud sayi.- wn Know we aie rlcht
and we Intend them shall Im no
, parndo unions It is under tho auspices
of tho reKUtar organization. 1 don't
hnow whether wo will win out or
not all 1 know Is this that If tho
lloalylles parade iliero will not Im
700 in Hue."
KilRPUft I I I mil -.ml John II.
d'ConnuM ivou'd iiinesent him and
I'nioner llnh ..i 1 h. I.i.uinir
I U'l 'nniiell 11 iida- '11 A 1 1 1 tit ic l'it,
bif wired he would ulutn tn the city
at once. Mi. I'lood said tin move
was not unexpected, and that he felt
neither motion would be upheld.
Corporation Counsel Hardy will
represent Politu CnuuulsHlnner
Wood.
Iloth motions will lie heird befnte
.lustlco luei;,in on Monday mnrnliiK,
Mr. Donnellnii ni.tiiiiim ed
Mxr. I.a 1 lie said h' w .is astntilslii'd
al the lie wi lov ind c nil I imt .n ti
11111I1 rptiiii'l it
Several d i" .ipi, it uiih li.iined, 1 .1
jC.irdinal lhieateimd to iein.ni' nil tin
liratich and county ehnidnins of both
contestants unless they Kol toKnther.
Just what attitude will bo taken
now nobody would say. It was ad
mitted at the Cathedral reet,orv that
Kennedy had been Klvmi a verbal
promise that he would bo permit toil
I in iiuilii n is uimiiif," stand at ihe C'a.
ill'. I1.1I. Tins a deluded for IkiIIi
I -Ides tn-ioM ,Vn ,i.iii' w ll bn erei leij
,,ii I'll- 1 'at le i ,1 1 unless t hi re I u
I mil ll'll lllll 'I'll'
populace of northern Alcxico to join him bv representing
that the hated Gringoes are imading the country on an
errand of conquest, a considerable part of the Atlantic fleet
nill bo dispatched to Mexican waters for the purpose of
protiding quid, transportation to points where out Ian. s
max seek to promote rcoltition against the Cnrauza govern
ment .
Unless Villa and his band are speedily overtaken the
bund It leader will be able to increase the strength of his
forces. Tentative pluns are already under way to send a
force of from 30,000 to 40,000 men into Mexico should the
necessity arise.
Hoth Hou?f. of C.fingresi were boiling fur jciinn when the ine to
aa, but the party leader-; counselled restraint until the President and the
Cabinet had a dunce in act. It was stated this afternoon that the Presi
dent will not ask tor the approval ot Congress in this crisis as he did whin
he .sent the navy to era Cruz. Congressmen and Senators agree that
he has the right to send an army into Mexico after an outlaw.
The President has stated that he keenly regrets the necessity for
sending troops iutn Mexico, because he tully realizes that the action of
the United Stales may be misconstrued in that country and unforeseen
.iiiiipli.iii'm. m.i he developed. However, he lake- Ihe tand which
is pi.iciic.ilb iii'i.iuiiiioihh shared by the Congressthat ill.t has placed
hiniN-Ml outside the vale ot civilization and must Iv deployed. As the
Carrana ( ioveiiimcnt is limbic to handle ilia and Villa has declared
wai on the United States, it is up to our Government to remove Mm.
VNAIILE TO GET WORD FROM CARRANXA.
All efforts to communicate with Carranza had failed up to late this'
afternoon. His representative in Washington said he had been unable, to
reach the l-ir t Cliiel. but lie fell sure President i-irrana would not
ibicct loam s ,ii ui ,111 evpediti u against ill,t.
Reports Ind leached Washington that Carraii. .1 is either dead or in
prisnii as the result nt a new revolution. It was agreed that what Car
ran..! thinks about the situation is ot little ettect, tor he has shown himself
utterly unable to handle the bandit ilia. The feeling in the Cabinet, the
Senate and the House was so strongly in favor of immediate pursuit of
Villa and his crew that any attempt to bring about delay in order that
( ',irrau.a might Iv consulted would have been quickh smothered.
Gen. .Voti -daied a! I o'clock lint the euvdiiioiiap, lorce uiil con
iM ol nut 'e- than n.i .n men. I ii.it munlvi is available right nuw,
Keiniorcemenis can Iv scut alier the main hod) in a short time.
Gen. Prederick l-'unston, who is in command on the border, will
lead the expedition into .Mexico. He requested permission to do so last
night, and action was deferred solely to give the Cabinet a chance to de
liberate on the question of proceeding without Carranza's formal per
mission. lu a alcinent i-siud mm the While Hotie President Wilson made
t'laiti ''" 1c oi'iM of ilv Invjsiiri nf Mev'.' is to capture ilia and '
! .v Pre i.'ciu il c:i
c'l.iiiciv. ami this niva
lin 1 si, in 1- ii"i in t!v nature ot intervention. W hen the iimecr nt th extv.
many law. and uh it absent 'here I , , . . ....
would b a pJui' without a iltunlsu uiuvu 1: aiv-viiiyiuutu, wiicu unauus iuvc uccu ucaita uui oi OIUlClll
Th
. ,d' I ".
I' . r nlf
t'n li,l'
Sli 111
r
fe.t' 1.1 ,
IP Kl in 1,
t 1
nl
1 iu' .11 i"! i' i i..tii, li'e a.i'is 1 I
, tit tic 1 . deal t. nil .mi.i u'.'.uie ill.- ( .a. -.t 1 1
is,in i- ii"i in the nature ot intervention.
J3w
