VOL. 11, No. 44. SKM1-VV
ARMY GIVEN
( FREE RANGE p
Administration Stands Squarely ^
Behind Sending Cavalry to
Mexico. y
. t
wag not known officially "just 1
where they were or just what r
account they had given of them- '
selves.
While no formal word of the 1
policy of the administration was
out. it was reliably stated that
the army would be given free f
rein to catch the bandits if possible.
It was not considered in
administration circles that Col. '
Slocum's act in any sense con- ,
stituted an invasion of Mexico. '
a policy which the administration
has opposed in the past, and
will continue to oppose.
The state department at first ,(
had planned to ask permission 1
of the Carranza government to!
send troops across the border in !
pursuit of the outlaw band.
Then came official word that the '
cavalry had already crossed. La-1
ter Mr. Arredondo called upon
Secretay Lansing, expressed regret
for the Villa raid and was j'
infomed of the attitude of the i
United States. Mr. Arredondo
said he would communicate with
Gen. Carranza immediately.
tc The Mexican Question Flares Up
in Congress.
Washington. March 9.?The j
Mexican question broke out in
Congress late to-day. Senator
Fall, of New Mexico, announced
to-day that he had prepared a '
resolution to authorize recruit- '
/-vf n nwwii* AA AAA 4
JUJ4 i/j n nimy ui nuv,vvu tu intervene
in Mexico and authoriz- 1
ing authorities to stamp out
brigandage, while in the House,
Representative Mondell, repub- 1
lican, of Wyoming, started a debate
with a speech attacking the
Administration's Mexican policy. 1
MORE WEST POINT CADETS
Proposed In Bill Introduced by ]
Senator Chamberlain.
Washington, March 9.?More
cadets at West Point, by having
the president appoint enlisted
men, are proposed by a bill in-1
troduced to-day by Chairman
Chamberjain, one of the senate
military committee. One would
be chosen for each regiment of
the mobile army and the equiv j
alent unit of other organiza-|
tions.
EEKLY. LANCAfc:
ARllAN'ZA'S C()VKH\ME\T * w
REt;RETS UAI1) ifV v i lla jyjj jjV|
oreign Minister !), ?%:ilo?- Asks
Americans t?? Remember Villa t
is an C ltlaw. .4|
Mexico City, March 9, "M\ .* '
overnment sincerely regrets
lis affair and asks the Ameriui
people to be patient," said yra JT'IPri
[arcelino Davalos, foreign min- SJI I g\l j
iter of the Cabinet, in a state-,
lent to the Associated Press to- j ? a*
ay.
"The government asks the
.merican people to remember
iat Villa is a commonenemy,"
e continued, "and an outlaw to
e hunted down by all men. The -lyr-pv-rp a twc<
lexican government will use the |
lost vigorous means to run this STRUCT,
lan to earth and avenge his CEED F(
orrible acts. DEARLY
It is stated unofficially that
ren. Trevino, with a large force, Columbus, I
Iready is in pursuit of Villa. ! Francisco Villi
Senor Davalos said he had j can bandit, rai
omnumicated by telegraph with territory to-da
!en. Carranza and that the gen- lv> attacked C
ral later would make a full;least 16 Amei
tatement to the American peo- many buildinj
le. 'driven back a
t ional border.
FIELD DAY NOTES. Not less thi
'the Thirteen!
lutes for the Riddance of Con- Cavalry follow
tcstant. i into Mexico.
All committees will appear in j siocum, co
mi- m-.m issue in i in ijinn.ctsier troops
'Jews. Re sue to watch the pn-jto-dav st ?tod t
,er for information. a stamflomih
Map drawing paper 12xl8-in. |^er where spi
o be furnished each each con-|sue(j in this.
eslnnL . . . - ,, TT ? I named private
Any contestant for the U. R 'c'apt George
medals may get information of th'p of the T
>r help from the teacher, but wac WOunded.
he final writing of essay must
>e done without help in the pres- The small de
ince of teacher. under Mf
Robinson-Lathan company is kins .an(' Elm
?oing to present to the rural jn? dismounte
ichool scoring the greatest num- *ned stand ag
5er of points, "Held Day", a Vil,a attack a
leautiful Sterling Silver Cup. were holding
ret and the honor of winning The ra^ 0
such a trophy will be well worth tory proved c.
he effort of any community, chieftain. Th
rhe winner of this cup means dits, including
hat you are the banner rural or,d hi comma
school of the county for 1916. ered and burn
The points to be counted are troopers repoi
is follows: ined number
Classes A, R, and C spelling in the brush.
>. 4 and 3 respectively. under the slo;
Classes A, B and C map draw- "Death to
ng 5, 4 and 3 respectively. Villa's follow.
Classes A, B and C upper and fip^npration
ower sections, 5. 4. 3 and 2 re- ^ crept *al
^Classes A. R and C upper and c-^ntV'-md "ru
ower sections, 5, 4, 3 and 2 re- t?W(1 nrinfr i
spectively. The first v
Classes /\ ana i* composition, orjCan troope
S and 4 respectively. stant action.
Class C story telling 3. the raiders en
Class A domestic art contests others began
I and 4. Three points each and and shooting
contests 2 and 3 two points each. who venturer
Class B domestic art contest jnifS. Lights
I, three points and contests 2, 3!|jc building ii
iind 4. two points each. targets for sn
Class C contests 1 and 2; 3
ind 2 points respectively. la s direction
Household Science: creeping clo
Class A each contest 2 points, homes, entice
Class B contest 1, 3 points; 2 vilians into t
and 3 each 2 points. Jiah sP?^e" \V
Class C each contest 2 points ber of fatalu
Manual Training: to this ruse.
Class A axe handle 3 points, Stores wer
other contests 2 each. poured upon
Class B each contest 2 points. an(i the mat<
Class C each contest 2 points, j other bandit?
U. I). C. gold medal 10 points; was raided, 1
silver medal 5 points. jbut the lootei
Exhibits: jsmall registei
Best Rural, 10 points; best The casual'
town. 7 points. teenth Cavali
All other exhibits are to at Columbus
count from 1 to 5 points, graded an(j six wouni
by exhibit committee. AH who V;iin'? tnta'
win second place in any contest j 'wprp e.
bwic wuc jiuuii, iui tnt'ir scnooi. i A
Declamations and Recitation: !?* 1" ! ,
Classes A, R and C count 5, 4' wounded. Ir
and 3 respectively. 'n^ Mexico,
Athletics: 2 ? clock, wa
Relay and half-mile races 4 accounted for
points each. lcans k,lled a
100-yard dash for girls and the The Ameri
75 yard dashes for boys and run- Mexican side
ning high jump, each 3 points, slain when A
The 2 50-yard dashes, base-1 heavy guad 1
ball throw, botft runing and suing Americ
standing brocd jumps and apple; Of the eig
race, each 2 points. lians slain he
Upon the above rating will be Miller, of All
given a beautiful "banner" toij. II. Hart,
the school of the county making burned to de*
highest score (open to all destroyed the
schools). As the "trophy cup' ! The body 1
goes to the banner rural school a Sunday sell
so the "banner" will go to the gate, from F
banner county school. .was shot to
V. A. I ingle, Richie, propr
C. S. VI also was inch
i
ISNO
PERMISSION ASKED ?
d
Troops Cross Border in Pursuit
of Outlaw Band. ^
Washington, March 9.?Wash- ^
ington stands squarely behind ^
Col. Slocum in sending cavalry,**
into Mexico in pursuit of Fran-1 "
cisco Villa and his band of out- n
laws, who raided Columbus, N. "
M., to-day, murdering American ;"
soldiers and citizens and firing I
the town.
Secretary Lansing to-night a
informed the de facto Government
of Mexico, through E. Ar- ?|
redondo, its ambassador desig- ^
nate here, that he trusted no ob- e
Tir/tul/1 1\a nin/ln 4/\ f n^
? ? V/ v? I' I I /v_~ IIKIUV, Ul UIC <lv,
tion of the American troops,
they having followed what is
known in military circles as a
"hot trail." No orders have
been issued J'or the return of *
the sold ers, and it is not proba.
hie any will be issued for th'j
present.
Shocked indignation occasioned
hv news of Villa's outrage
was quickly succeeded by undisguised
satisfaction in official and
congressional circles over the
knowledge that, after three
>years of patient forbearance,;
United States troops actually
were on Mexican soil to avenge
the death of their comrades and
bring to justice the outlaws
whose depredations have terror-j
ized Americans on both sides of
the border.
Reports that the American
troopers were in action to-night
probably fifteen miles south of
the border against a much larg-i
er force of bandits were heard
with anxious interest in official
circles. Five troops of cavalry
crossed the border early in the s
dav. At a late hour to-nicht it
CASTER
1TKK, S. C. MAUUli 30. 1U1G.
II CAN TO WN I
1jl5 i
> STATES TROOPS j
D ATTACK MEXICANS .!
i
num nnnnrn
KJVCiii DUMJLK
c
\ ON MISSION OF DEATH AND DE j
[ON POUNCE UPON TOWN AND SUC
)R MOMENT IN EFFORT BUT PAY
FOR WILD D EEDS. t
"J. M., March 0.? The Mexicans set the hotel on s
a, outlawed Mexi- fire, together with a number of }
ided United States' other buildings and posted snip- ,
iv. With 500 men ers to pick off Americans as .
olumbus, killed at1 fhev fled. (
*icam? and fired Mrs. M. James was shot and (
*s before he was kil-ed in the doorway of another ,
cross the interna- hotel from which she was running
with her s'ster. Mrs. James s
in 250 troopers of /ell dying over the body of C. C. e
h United States M:ller, who had been driven from f
ted the Villa band !) drug store across the street. ]
Reports to Col. H. ' lister, a child not yet in her ,
mmanding United teens escaped the fusillade with- ji
at this point, late oul :i scratch. Mrs. James' hus- j,
hat Villa had made; ljulul was wounded. _ ,
is south of the bor- Mrs. S. 1. Ryan, wife ol the
rited fighting en- captain of troop E, and Capt. Ru- n
engagement an un- dolph Smyser of troop II. with t
e was killed and Mrs. Smyser and her little child- t
Williams, adjutant ren had narrow escapes from the b
'hirteenth Cavalry, j bandits. The Ryan house fionts v
j regimental headquarters and the t
. . .. t ditch up along which Villa troops
tachment ol troop- came was riddled with bul- n
ijor hrank romp- jets 11
ler Linsley, tight- Mrs. Ryan was in bed in line t
d, made a determ- Wjtb a front window facing the r
ainst the nenewed ditch in which Villa opened the r
incl at last reports attack. Bullets shattered the r
their ground. glass and struck through
n American tern- ber clothing arranged on a chair
Dstly to the bandit near the bed.
e bodies of 18 ban- r*r/.- -/ rrl1
. t 1 vTxnjiu, private oi i\ t
' ^ k!, .k" troop was on sentry duty and ,
nd had been srath- , , fire ?? a ytv ofyMex^
ed before noon and can3 attacki tl t, (|Ual.ters ()f ^
-ted an underterm- Ueut John P I.ucas' command. V
of dead still lying ing the machine gun troop of c
Led to the attack the Thirteenth cavalry. Griffin v
Ean: fell mortally wounded under a rj
the Americans," volley of bullets, but killed two p
era fought with Mexicans and then crawled to j.
Just before dawn the side ot the Ryan home. Mrs.'
ong ditches skill Ryan, arising, ran around the t
id States cavalry side ot the house under fire of ^
shed the sleeping Mexicans to an adobe gar- )<
leavil.v. age. A party of bandits was
olley brought Am- standing about Griffin. She j
rs into almost in- opened the garage when a MexiWhile
a portion of can grasped her arm and de- v
igaged the cavalry, nianded where she was going. c
applying the torch answered calmly that she ;]
American civilians u'as going into the building to j
I from the build- J?et a motor car. The Mexican j
in homes and pub. jet her go and during the fight ^
nmediately became 'n the camp she remained in the x
ipers posted at Vil- automobile unhurt. j
Every piece of furniture in the .
i. Other bandits Ryan home was riddled. I
ise to American The Smyser home, north of i
id a 11 umbei of oi- the track, was surrounded in j
he open with Rng- |ront and both sides by bandits <
ivitations. A num- before a shot was fied. Captain
ties are attributed Smyser heard someone tell the !
i Mexicans that an American ar- j
e looted, oil was m.v officer and his family, .
frame structures, gathering his wife and children j
oh applied by still he emerged from the back door
;. The postoffice reached the barn just as the j
furniture smashed, bandits broke in the front door.
1 I _. Tho Lon/litc l/\/\f /\/l 4 Uo. U.v.i,. . -
~s secured tuny one i ,,v "F"in' L,,e unuw |
cd package. ; arid were preparing to set fire
ties of the Thir-'to the barn when the American
ry in the fighting forces opened fire. Leaving j
were several killed 1 Mrs. Smyaer nothing but the,
led. nightgown in which she escap-1
,, ., i * , ed, Capt. Smyaer managed to
1 losses in the da> j()jn ^js troop in time to partici- 4
stimated in excess pate jn battle in which the
and twice as many, Mexicans finally wee driven
le Ameican pursuit from the town
which ended about Capt F G Turner and hjs
s reported to have ewere jn an Hdobe house just
more than 75 Mex- norGl Df railroad tracks.,*
nd wounded. Mexicans pointed out his dwell- *
can losses on the ing as a house occupied by an
was one corporal American army officer. They j
/"ilia threw out k remained inside until the troops !{
to engage the pur- in camp got into action and scat- j
:an troopers. tered the bandits,
ht American civil- Villa dropped his personal pa-,,
re. Churles Dewitt pers as he went with his fleeing '
buquerque and Dr. men back into Mexico. A note!
of El Paso, were found among these, evidently a '
ith in the fire that transcript of an order issued just !
! Commercial hotel, before the attack read "kill all
of Walton Walker, before a shot was fired. Captain 1
ool convention dele- gringoes."'
Mayas, N. M., who Villa's presence is accepted!
death with W. T. here as discrediting his recent (
ictor of the hotel, asset ions that he was not respon- ,
aerated. (Continued on Page H)
" $i.5o a vi:au.
mn
liatlle Paging as Yioicntb a- PrT^lltlP f^F"OiiI fO
Ever, i ..mans M.I,ins Fierce btl Nb HCoULlO
Hut I n-iiecvssuM Attacks.
Germany has declared war ???.
Portugal. Thus 13 countries s-<" ?n<-'e Over a Front <?
low are engaged in the interna- Nearly i em Miles.
ional struggle.
Declaration of war was made UjS() , (>ST (;UOLTM)
)y tiermany chiefly on account
>f the recent seizure of Gentian
nerchantmen interned in Portu- On Another Part of the Line
?ese ports and Portugal's refus- French Drove Teutons Out of
il to rescind this action and once t'aptured Wood,
nore place the ships under the Fighting of great violence bejerinan
flag. A long series of tween the French and German
illeged breaches of neutrality by infantry has been in progress
he Portugese government also from Bethincourt nothvvest of
vere contributing factors. i Verdun, to the Meuse, and east
Fighting between the French:of the Meuse from the southern
ind the Germans northwest and slopes of the Cote de Talou to
lorth of Verdun has in no wise j the Douaumont region?battle
dackened. Particularly violent fronts aggregating about 10
lave bee nthe attacks of the Ger-! miles in length. Spirited artilnans
to the north of Verdun, lery duels continued along the
iround Dauaumont. the village remainder of the front about
>f Vuux and Fort Vaux. but ac- Verdun.
:ord:ng to Paris, thev went :'or A continuation of the German
taught. drive northwest of Verdun is deThe
Germans were thrown in ci;u*ed by Berlin to have netted
olid formation against trench- the German's French positions
s of the French bordering the over a front of nearly four miles
dot of the ridge dominating id virtaahy two miles in depth
"ort Vaux which the latest Ger .. id en. bled them to capture uS
nan report said the Germans inkers and .*>.277 men. The villad
captured the French border- h.ges of Forges and Regnevil-e,
ng the foot of the forces with the heights ol" Ruben and tho
mormons losses.' Cumieres woods fell into the
Northeast of the fort the Ger- hands of the Gemans.
nails essayed an assault against The French did not give up
he village of Vaux from which these positions without strong
hey previously had been driven resistance and suffered heavy
y the French but here also they casualties, especially along the
/ere repulsed with heavy casual- southern fringe of the Cumieres
ies. wood.
To the west of the Meuse, In the Corbeaux wood, which
lidway between Bethincourt and was occupied recently bv the Gerhe
river the French have con- mans, the French launched a
inuevl on the offensive in the, heavy counter-attack and drove
'orbeaux wood and are officially j the Germans out of the erreater
eported to have driven the Ger- part of the position. A German
nans from almost all of that attack with heavv effectives
* ? a. ... 1: ? *
i iii tt1111 smiic'iil. ! against tlie French Bethincourt
In the Eastern theatre the'lines was renulsed.
tussians at various points have East of the Mouse the Geraken
the offensive against Ger-imans have captured the Hardaunan
advanced positions but Bel- mont redoubt, over which there
in declared they nowhere met has been such heavy fighting,
vith success. and ir. the line-straightening maThe
Russians on the Black nenver have made progress on
lea coast continue to piv<s to- a front of about five miles,
card Turkey's principal port,,along the southern slope of the
"rebizond, and also are making Cote de Talou and the Cote lu
irogress against the Ottomans Poiviv and in the Douaumont
n the Persian sector. legion.
The Russian foreign office ca- In the Woevre district southegorically
denies that T ?'kc" east of Verdun the Germans
las made peace proposals oi any hav< forced the French to loose
:ind. their hold on outlying positions
they held in the village of Fres*residing
Elder Browne Is Dead. nes. Here the Germans assert
Columbia, March 8.?News they captured 700 prisoners. In
cas received in Columbia yester- the Meuse hills the French arlay
of the death in Kingstree. tillery is counter-shelling the
it 2:10 o'clock yesterday morn- guns of the Germans,
ng of the death of Rev. H. B. Trenches captured by the
Irowne, presiding elder of the French in upper Alsace .destrucdethodist
Episcopal church. He tive bombadments of German povould
have been 64 years old had sitions at several points north
te lived until July. The funeral of the Aisne and the shelling in
ind interment will take place at the forest of the Argonne are
Florence at 11 o'clock. Mr. tola of in the French official
Jrowne was for 30 years a mem- mimnnkat'on. Sixteen French
ii. ^ - *
ifi m uic .-oum ? arolina con- uvronlancs have dropped largo
Vrence. for 11 years a presiding* numbers of shells on the Metz?lder.
for 10 years on station- Sal h?r* -tation.
ind for 1> years on the circuit.
le was a leader in the missioniry
work of the church and ac- '' ^JHiS WERE LEI) %
ive in its educational interests. \1LLA HIMSELF
A widow and two sons survive
1,m- Prisoners State Outlaw Chief.
IIAKEK IS SWORN IN t,Mn Voweri Death to All AmAS
NEW WAR < HI El encans.
v\ ashington, March 0.?A disN'ew
Secretary Holds Informal Oen. Pershing forReception.
Meeting Officer- to the ?']' department
Stationed in Washington. '"e t0-Ja> Re,n- FunsWashington.
March 9.?New- <? >. ^"ted definitely that the
on D. Baker was sworn in to- *'ex'fn <!ers were command.
lav as Secretary of War. Thei<d> Vtlta pemonally
,ath was administered hy John; $*? Pershing s report says:
Randolph. assistant chief clerk , Lw'T?r.T
rearly fifty years in the service. 1. ''Sks me to repeat that Villa
Mr. Baker was introduced by|nimse11 charge through
Secretary Daniels to the officers t'amP a force estimated at
ind to Gen. Scott, chief of staff. I wGrn. ' *? men. Eleven
Secretary Baker held an in. Mexicans were killed in camp
'ormal reception, meeting most * twenty-three altogether so
>f the armv officers stationed If*
iere. Four enlisted men killed and
one officer and seven men
VTFadden Nominated hv Wilson. Prisoners state that
Washington. March 8?Pres,- Y1"" ? W bltt<'r' vowmg
lent. Wilson this afternoon sent v. nteticans, \ ilia reto
the Senate the nomination of .!, ! " tne nills southeast.
V. Brown Md'adder. for n.?t- ? o a "?T ,n
master at Rook Hill. '//.k/''/ orH.f? ?? K>
more than two miles beyond the
to in ii.t> iv\< kim> Hoist;... border. Slocum thinks he has
Go-envllle. S. C stare,. S.-A ?'tuat ion and "
novemeni ties uet-n htuns-neti nein foi f con mends that <. avalry be sent
ho oatahll?hniont of a ptokimc house any number ^of troops are to
?n p rather hip roaltv go after Villa/'
