a jr ?.-- 3 r-i
FINANCIAL EDITION
rtiarr
NIGHT
EXTRA
ifamtm
MIGHT
EXTRA
. c-
' V0L.n.-NO.158
rniLADEIiPUIA, tflllDAY, 1U ALIO II 10, 191G.
CoriRioiir, 1010, t laa Pdblio Lidoie Co i( hn i.
PIIIOB O-TJS GENT
Tn"?- '
jflk Wfa, i5 pr
f:
PRESIDENT WILSON ORDERS U. S. INVASION
OF MEXICO TO GET VILLA AND HIS OUTLAWS
FOLLOWING LOOT AND MURDER ON BORDER
Secretary of War Baker Hastens Prep-
arations for Punitive Expedition,
Authorized After Quick
Action by Cabinet
Bandits, in Detached Forces, Eenew Attacks on Villages
1 and Ranches Villa Reported Now Headed
for Columbus With 2000 Men
for New Assault
EL PASO, Texas, March 10. A
Villa soldiers and of Villa moving to
this afternoon by J. B. Blair, of Columbus. According to Blair, the Villistas
raided an American ranch house west of Columbus early today and murdered
in American named IIopps.
The telephone message was followed by a telegram from Columbus
laying that great clouds of dust could be seen to the west indicating the
approach of a heavy force of raiders.
, President Wilson, following a meeting with his Cabinet, today ordered
in expedition into Mexico to put nn end to outrages by General Francisco
Villa and his band of outlaws.
Secretnry of War Baker at once began preparations for the invasion,
which is entirely punitive, and which, it is said, will be in accord with the
constituted authorities of Mexico.
General Villa, with a large force, is again movitjg on Columbus, N. M.,
from the west, according to telephone advices received nt El Paso.
Mexican bandit forces, numbering approximately 5000 armed men, under
the personal direction of Francisco Villa, today are reported engaged in
a concerted move against American border towns all along the line from
Nogales, Ari., to El Paso, Tex. , '
This movement is in pursuance of Villa threats to force American inter
vention, begun with the attack yesterday on Columbus, N. M., in which
American soldiers and civilians, estimated variously from sixteen to twenty,
ftcrc killed.
United States troops, 19,000 strong, have been hurriedly dispatched in re
arranged details, to patrol the border and protect the endangered towns
and ranches. They are under the command of General Frederick Funston.
The American forces, which yesterday pursued Villa and his outlaws
five miles into Mexico, have returned io Columbus, after being checked by
a determined stand of the Villistas. They report more than 100 additional
dead among the raiders.
'
J will send Forces
WASHINGTON, March 10. President "Wilson today ordered General Fran
.Cisco Villa, murderer of Americans, captured or killed at any cost. Tho United
States' army will undeitnko the task. A punltlvo cxpeditjon, the make-up of
which now Is being considered by tho Wnr Department, will go into Mexico as
toon as possible to get Villa.
This action was decided on at a two hours' session of the Cabinet today.
There waB a unanimity of opinion among tho members picsent that there could
be no further tenipoilzlnf. with tho situation, Villa's action In murdering and
outraging Americans at will had onraged Congress to such un extent that the
President and his advisers decided that ho must be removed as a menace to the
peace of the country. Tho following statement was issud by Secretary to tho
President Tumulty:
"An adequate force will be sent at once In pursuit of Villa with the single
object of capturing him and putting a stop to his forays. This can and will
be done In entirely friendly aid of the constituted authorities in Mexico1, and
with scrupulous respect for the sovereignty of that republic."
SECRKTAltY OF WAR ACTS AT ONCE.
Secretary of AVar Baker went directly from tho Cabinet meeting to his olllco,
where he directed General Scott to preparo the orders for the movement of the
troopsr. It was accepted that the expedition would be a cavalry one, with Infantry
upport, and if the recommendations of the officers familiar with the general
tltuatlon are followed not less than 5000 men will be sent. It vvbh pointed out
at the. War Department that the situation would be peculiarly difficult, and that
postlbly 20,000, and even 50,000 men might yet be needed.
General Frederick Funston, commanding on tho border, has been desig
nated as the conunnnder-ln-chlef of the expedition. At the same time, orders
were telegraphed to all units of the regular army in the United States to bo
ready to move at n moment's notice Tho quartermaster's corps was directed
to arrange for transportation and the like.
The coast artillery will be utilized as infantry it necessary. This will give
IJ.OOOj additional men for tho work on tho border and In old Mexico.
President "Wilson called Senator Stono, chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Commlttoe, on tho telephone, nnd told him what had been done. The
Senator gave his unqualified support, and ngreed to father any legislation that
might be necessary. At the samo tlmo, Representative Flood, chalimau of
the liouse Foreign Affairs Committee, was sent for by Secretary Lansing to
confer, with him on the subject.
EXPEDITION IN ACCORD WITH CARRANZA GOVERNMENT.
Officials were careful to emphasize that the expedition was intended in
Mery day tq uphold tho hands of tho Carranza Government as recognized by
the United Btates. It was admitted that a grave doubt existed, however, ns
to how (he Mexicans would look upon tho matter.
The 111 feeling against the United States has constantly been growing
'throughout Mexico, and there were many officials and military experts who
Relieved that the Carranzlstas and Villistas would unlto to opposo the United
States; troops. The men holding these viows and they Included some of the
leading statesmen here Insisted that they were convinced that the United
Btates would have to pacify all Mexico and create a government there that
Wild be upheld.
General Scott, who knows Villa and tho Mexicans well, made no secret of
Ms fears that the action of the United States might be misunderstood. He
declared that no chances could be taken with the troops that are sent after
Villa, but that they must be supported by artillery and Infantry, bo that If the
'orst comes to tho worst they wlllVbe able to maintain their positions until an
equate, force can be thrown Into the field.
FLEET ORDERED TO BE IN READINESS.
Although every effort was made to keep the matter secret, It was learned
that both the Atlantic and Pacific fleets had been ordered to be ready for any
contingency,
At least 5000 troops will form the original force that will match Into Mexico,
It was stated at the War Denartment. The force which nrobablv will bs needed
1 set General Villa will number approximately 8000 men. The expedition will
onsUt chiefly of Infantry, There -will be, however, at least 1000 to 2000 cavalry.
ATTACK PLANNED ALL
U PAfin H. fnmli 1A FTha An,lln
, ,, 4B.( MlftlWH V. HH ... ..V ...-. V.IVMU A..S....C DCCUP
Vm M'h mllltary activity today, a reported move on the part of Francisco
ilia to attack towns and ranches all along the boundary calling forth hurried
("patch of American troops to meet the Invaders.
tf" Bltua"on today follows the attack yesterday on Columbus, N. M., where,
and 8Corc ot Amerlca18- civilians and soldiers, were killed by the ViUistaa,
M bo themselves lost approximately 200 men. J
Headquarters here received messages that outlaw forces had crossed the
' at several points -jfnd were movlns against the. small and unprotected
I HI ill. !
Caatlaued n Fax 3fw Oilman Oe
report of nn American murdered by
rcattack Columbus was received here
to take villa.
ALONG BORDER.
lma,Wn.Mvlmin fpnnMan la aa.I.
Rapid-Fire Preparation
For Mexican Invasion
President nnd Cabinet directed
the nrmy to enter Mexico nnd kill
or capture Villa and his bandits.
Specific announcement mnde that
this action in no way affects the
sovereignty of Mexico.
No authority will bo asked from
Congress unless Carranza inter
feres with the punitive expedition.
Mnjor General Frederick Fun
ston, of Kansas, was designated as
the commander - in - chief of the
punitive expedition.
At least 13,000 members of tho
coast artillery have been ordered
prepared for service ns infantry if
needed.
All troops in the continental
United States under orders to be
ready for border service at a
moment's notice.
If necessary, the President will
ask authority from Congress to
raise n volunteer nrmy.
All transcontinental railroads
ordered to hold trains rendy for
any emergency that may nrfso in
connection with troop movements.
Scnntor Stone dcclnrcs that there
arc plenty of precedents for send
ing expedition into Mexico.
Atlantic nnd Pacific fleets ready
for any emergency that may arise.
'use grapeshot;
says ashhurst of
mexican attack
"Shoot Them on Spot," Cry
in Senate Plea for
Armed Force
BRING THEM BACK HERE'
liu a BtaJT Correspondent
WASHINGTON, March 10. "Wo
should now uso grapeshot Instead of
grape Julco," shouted Senator Ashurst,
of Arlzonn, at the top of his volco today.
While urging ihc Senate to adopt a reso
lution' authorizing the rrcsldent to uso
the armed forces of tho United States to
pursuo nnd capture the Mexicans respon
sible for the outrngo nt Columbus, N. M.,
yeBterday.
Senator Ashurst Jumped to his feet to
discuss tho latest Mexican atrocity. whcnV1
the resolution authorizing the uso of Amer
lean troops to pursuo Villa had been In
troduced by Senator McCumber, ot Noitli
Dnkotn.
"I realize," said Senator Ashurst, ''that
this is a time for prudent and temperate
speech, although I have not been In the
habit of dipping my words In diplomatic
antiseptic before allowing them to escape
from my lips.
"KEEP THOOPS ON" nOUDKK "
"I haven't been one of those to criticise
the Administration, yet I would bo false
to my constituents, false to tho American
people and false to the Senate If I did
not speak now. For moro than live months
I hao been urging tho AVnr llepaitment
to keep troops on the bolder Instead of
withdrawing them to maneuver with the
National Guard.
"Despite my expostulation, less th.m
five days ngo tho department was plan
ning to withdraw tioops from tho border.
Instead of our trouble with Mexico
being over, it Is Just beginning.
"It Is tho duty of tho Senate to au
thorize the uso of any force nccessuiy
to hunt out those bloodthirsty cut
throats, bring them back to Columbus,
where they mado a funeral pjro of Amer
ican citizens and shoot them on the
spot."
McCUMUnrt,'.H RESOLUTION.
Senator McCiimher's lesolutlon, after
telling of the attitude of tho United States
and reciting the fresh outbreaks In Mexico,
concludes:
Vheicas, these brutalities, culmi
nating in tho invasion of our own
soil and tho massacte of our people
can no longer bo borni;
Now, therefore, bo ft resolved by
the Congress of the United States that
tho President be, und ho Is hereby di
rected to immediately sent Into Mex
ico a sutllclent force to hunt down and
destroy these murdering bands und
punish all those guilty of theso at roc
Jtlea against our citizens, whereever
they may be found. And tho Presi
dent la authorized to use force neces
sary to carry Into effect this purpose
or to overcome any opposition from
any source in Mexico to prevent its
accomplishment
ACTION POSTPONED.
Chairman Stone, representing tha Ad
ministration, and Senator Fall, Its bitter
critic on the Mexican policy, Joined in
asking the Senate to suspend action until
the military had completed Its activity
and until fuller information of the outrage
was received.
McCumber's resolution was put over,
and Full, after also Introducing a resolu
tion, asked for Its reference until further
information was obtained.
"Every Senator feels as resentful over
this brutal and bloody outrage as does
the Senator from ArUona," Bald Senator
Stone.
"But the Executive Is using now every
bit of force at his command. The Cabinet
at this moment is considering the situa
tion In consultation with the military,
Until the Senate is Informed an to all the
facts-ras it will very booii it seems to
me that It will better befit our position
to wait a tew hours at least." '
French Four-Master Sinks; Tho Lost
NEW YORK, March 10. The French
four-masted steel sailing -vessel VUIe de
Havre has been sunk with a loss of two
lives. Twenty-six members of the crew
were saved. The Ville de Havre displaced
$109 tons and was owned at Nantes. She
was built In 1899.
Fight Promoter Dead
S vnAlt'SK. NT. March 10 William
dlkwo nutwi fUl't .promoter, died very iud
dMbr today In frFu,J.n,,r,'? ". "r1
orU&ulU from Hook Und. Ill . and liter
JlVSl UAlUWrt. Olbaon w 53 years
lt. U" ws MWMt el Jim Co-ey.
FRENCH REGAIN
FORT DE VAUX,
BERLIN ADMITS
Germans Push Lines Near
Verdun in Woevre Plain,
Near Damloup
SHOOT DOWN AEROPLANE
Teutons Report Progress in
Corbeaux Forest, West of
Mouse River
HEIILIN, March 10.
The German Wnr Olllco In nn official
statement today admitted that the French
have regained a firm foothold In Fort De
Vaux. northeuRt of Verdun, which was ro
ported captured by tho Germans yester
day. West of the Mouse lllvor, while clenrlm?
tho French from Corbeaux Wood and tho
position at Hothlncotirt, tho Germans rap
tured six officers, 6S1 men nnd 11 can
non. More ground has been gained by tho
GermntiB on tho Woevro plain, southeast
of Damloup.
Twb moro allied aeroplanes havo been
shot down by tho Germans
Tho following Is tho text ot tho offi
cial Gemian report:
"On tho west bank of the Mouse, whllo
clearing tho French from Corbenux for
est nnd their trenches at llcthlncourt, wo
took six officers and 6S1 men prisoners
and captured 11 cannon.
"Wo nave captured the wood on Ablaln
ridge, west of Douaumont.
"In tho Woevie region wo pushed our
HneB forwaid hi the wood southeast ot
Damloup.
"The French counter-attacked our front
cost nnd south of tho village of Vaux and
tho Fort De Vaux. They succeeded In ob
taining n firm foothold In tho fort, but
were elsewhere repulsed.
"Wo shot down an English monoplane
at Wytschele (Belgium) and a biplane
northeast of La Uassoo. The occupant ot
tho monoplano was dead."
(Damloup Is three miles cast of Verdun
and two miles nnd ono-half south of Dou
aumont.) PARIS, March 10.
Night operations on tho Verdun front
cast and west of tho Mcuso River mado
no chango in tho situation, tho French
War Ofllco announced this afternoon. Tho
official communlnuo states that tho enemy
launched no Infantry attacks, but both
sides have continued their bombardments.
Dispatches from tho Vordun front to
day repeated tho statement that tho Ger
mans who entered tho vlllago of Vnux
were driven out, and denlod tho German
claim that Fort de Vnux and adjoining
posltlona were captured.
Violent artillery actions continued on
both banks ot the Mcuso throughout the
night, but there was no Important In
fantry engagements, It was stated.
DENY GERMAN CLAIM
"Tho German claim,, circulated by wire-
Iaou llinf f!rrYian trnnun nnlitltril l"nrf
do Vaux and tho villngo of Vaux constl-
tuto an Insult to tho intelligence, of neu-
trals," said this afternoon's ofllclal state
ment. "The same may bo said of the
report spread by tho Germans In Spain
nnd Rumania that the French started the
Verdun oftenslve."
Tho text of the official communlnuo fol
lows: "In the Argonne our artillery has shell
ed enemy convoys observed on tho Mont-faucon-Avoncourt
road
"West nnd east of tho Mcuse tho situ-
Continued on Pace Tour. Column Tm
TWO WARSHIPS
OF BRITISH SUNK
BY FOITS MINES
Admiralty Reports De
stroyer and Torpedoboat
and 45 Men Lost
FRENCH LOSE STEAMSHIP
LONDON". Mai ch 10.
The Jlrltish destroyer Coquette and tor
pedoboat No. 11 have been sunk by mines
tho Admiralty announced today. Four
ofllcera and 41 men are missing, and It is
believed they perished.
The Coquette, a ship of 353 tons, was
armed with one 12-pounder and five 6.
pounders. She carried a crew of CU men
und was commanded by Lieutenant Fred,
erlck A. Warner.
Tho torpedoboat No. 11 was aimed with
two 3-lnch guns and three 18-lnoh torpedo
tubes. She carried a crew of 35 men.
The torpedoboat displaced 253 tons and
was built In 1906.
Those are the first ships of the British
navy sunk nlnce the reports that German
ships had mined the North Sea
While bound from an American port to
Havre, the French steamship l.oulslano
was torpedoed and sunk bi a submarine
Thursday la the Atlantic Ocean off the
French coast. The crew vvus rescued.
The ship sailed from Now Orleans on Kcb.
ruary 11 vvitl? a corgo of American goods
for the French Government. On Februaiy
17 It arrived at Newport News. Va., and
continued Its vojngo from that port the
nex day.
The, Uoulslane was one of a great fleet
of liners owned by the French General
Transatlantic Company and registered at
Havre. She had been In servlco between
French and American poits.
A Tteuter dispatch from Maiinoe says
the Swedish steamship Martha struck two
mines within Swedish waters oft FaUterbo.
The crew was saved. The Norwegian
steamship Nordkyn, from Ilaltlmore to
Copenhagen, with a cargo of grain, has
been taken Into Kirkwall.
'The French steamship Ville du Havre,
6026 tons, has been sunk, presumably by,
a submarine. Two members of the crew
were lost. Twenty-six others were saved.
The vessel was bound from New York to
Marseilles. It left New Vork on March s.
Measles Epidemic Closes Schools
ALtiENTOWN. Pa . March 10 Dr J
Trelchler Butz, county health officer, lias
ordered the schools of Mountulnvllle
closed Ninety of ITS pupils have the
measles. He also directed that children be
barred1 from the Mountaimlll Sunday
school, '
f. '
GUNMEN KILL
MILL CASHIER;
GET $3400; FLEE
Assistant at the Germania
Worsted Mill, Kensington,
Also Dying
HOLD-UP OVER IN A FLASH
Bandits Grab Satchel and
Freight Train Cuts Off
Pursuit of Them
MAN KILLED BY BANDITS
Herman Kustcnine;, paymaster of
the Germania Worsted Mills, was
shot to death by two gunmen, who
robbed him of $2310. His wife,
Sophia Kasteninc;, is shown below.
Two desperate gunmen shot and killed
a paymaster and mortally wounded nn-othcr-hT7i"iJarkltaHmiy'o.fntwnJernMnla
Worsted Mills, Indiana avenue and A
Btrcet, Kensington, shortly bcfoie noon
today.
Tho bandits escaped with $3100 in cash,
contained in a satchel which they wrenched
from tho hands ot tho head paymaster
nnd cashier as ho was dying nnd from
the hands of his wounded companion.
The dead man:
Herman Kiihtenlnir, 3K mrs old, Al'fl
North Knlrhlll tre et ; xhnt near heart.
The dying man:
Walter llntipt, 15 .venri old, lift lpkl
l.lpplm-ntt ntrret; Mounds In nlHlomen,
arm nnd hot li less; ut tlii Kplncopal Hos
pital. Tho desperadoes shook off pursuit
screened behind a passing freight tinln
Contlnuril on rnce 'Hirer, Column Thrrr
HOME ELECTRIC
LIGHT RATE TO BE
CUT 25 PER CENT.
Reductions of Prices to
City and Business Plants
Also Announced
FURTHER CUTS LIKELY
What Electric Rate
Cuts Mean to Home,
City and Business
Ited tuitions aggregating $1,230,
000 from the present rates.
Residence lighting rate reduction
from 9.811 cents to new rate of 7.37
cents a 25 per cent, decrease.
City to receive refund of 5150,000
on 1915 arc lighting contract und
permunent reduction of $10 on each
lamp.
Reduction of 20 per cent, on
rates for commercial lighting, or
chango from 10 to 5 cent rnngo to
one of 8 to -1 cents.
Reduction of 20 per cent, for
small commercial power consumers,
or change from 10,i to C-cent
rate to ono of 8 to 4U cents.
No change for hwge commercial
power consumers nnd to railroads
and traction companies.
The new rate schedule which the Phil
adelphia Klec-tilo Company expects to
establish in this city on April 1 will mean
an approximate reduction of 25 per cent.
In the price chaiged for residence lighting,
a 20 per cent, reduction In the rate charged
for commercial lighting und about a 12
per oent reduction In the rata charged to
the mutitclpallt. accnidlng to the general
understanding which exists today between
both factions participating In the rate case
light
The reductions to be made by the com
pany will total $1,250,000 yearly The
announcement of the proposed change of
bChedule came at the closing session of
the Philadelphia Electric Company rate
caia before (he Public Servlco Commis
sion. Frederick W Fleitz, chief counsel for
the dereiu. Untitled that un agreement
had been reached by the oppoulng fac
tions as to what a proper reduction would
be
Tha new schedule will be compiled by
the company and submlud to tha Public
Service Commission within a short time.
CtsUaucd a la Ulsht, leliuua Tw
iU ; f
I I
QUICK
:!:;. VfUfTD TO HAVE KEEN StftN IN FLIGHT
Two men nnswering descilntlons of Kensington gunmen were
seen 15 minutes after tho shooting by Michael Toley, caretaker, B and
Tioga blreetfi, all they eroded an ash dump at that place. They wore
hurryinp weot toward tho Pennsylvania Kallroad tracks. A bloody
handkerchief wati found by Detcctlvo fJednottl In Kosehill street, tha
routo of tho pursuit.
FRANKLIN SUGAR REFINERY TO BE REOPENED
The old Franklin Sugar Tleflnery, nt Delaware uvcnuo nnd Balnbrldgo
stieet, will be put Into operation In a. period of six weeks, It was nnnounccd by
offlclnls of tho company today. Tho plant has not been In operation for 25
years. About 800 men will bo employed, nnd it Is expected to produco 3000 granu
Intcd pounds of sugnr n day. The now plant Is made necessary by tho Increase
in tho business ot tho company since tho beginning of the war.
BERLIN SAYS NO NEW PROPOSALS WERE OFFERED U. S.
UERLIN; March 10. An ofllclal statement Issued nt tho Foreign Office
toddy stated that no new proposals on submarine warfare had been rmido by
Germany In the memorandum recently presented to tho American Government
by Ambassador von HcrnstorfT. "Tho memorandum," says tho statement, "gives
n history of the question and negotiations, but contains no now proposals."
KRUSEN NAMES ASSISTANT BACTERIOLOGIST
Dr. John V. Ucthcl, of 1825 Fnlrmount avenue, was today appointed by
Diicctor Kruscn, of tho Department ot Health and Charities, to the position of
Hist assistant bactcilologlst In the Bureau of Health, at n halary of $2000 a year
City Solicitor Connolly has nnmed Miss Zulcna N. Leslie n clerk In the Depart
ment of T.aw, nt a salary of $1200 n year. She fills the vacancy caused by the
death of F. C. Torkington.
PORTUGAL CALLS RESERVES TO COLORS
LISBON, Mnrcli 10. All Portuguese reservists, military and naval, were
called to the colors today. Germany's declaration of war caused no excitement
in the republic. Gcneinl sympathy has been with tho Allies ever slnco the
European struggle began. s
It Is expected that Poituguese tioops will take an active part in military,
opciations.
AUSTRIAN DREADNOUGHTS MAY MAKE DASH TO SEA
HOME, Mmch 10. It is reported hero that two of tho most powerfuj and
fastest Austrian dreadnoughts are held in readiness for a dash through tho
Adriatic in an attmpt to evade tho Italian blqgkadeand enter tho -Dardanelles
sJrnlt, wheie the Turks are now removing tho mine fields. If the Austrian
warships nre successful in emulating the feat of tho Gorman ships lircslau and
Goeben, which are both now disabled, the Turks hope to be able to resist tho
advance of the Russian nrmics In Armenia, which Is due in largo part to Jtlie cc
petntlon of the Rubslan Black Sea fleet.
FIREMAN KILLED IN WRECK OF MANHATTAN LIMITED
Fireman S. I. Shope was killed and Engineer Trout was iujuied last night
when their tiaiti, the Manhattan Limited, out of Broad Street Station for tho
West nt 7:02 p. m., ''lan into a freight wreck at Port Itoyal, 43 miles beyond
Hariisburg, at 10:38. The locomotive rolled over an embankment. Many pas
sengers were thrown from their berths, hut not injured. The steel car con
struction saved them.
TWO SHIP LINES PUT EMBARGO ON FREIGHT
The embargoes on steamship freight affecting tills port have been put into
effect by the Clyde Steamship Company nnd the Merchants and Miners' Trans
portation Company. In the flint embargo the usual less than carload local
freight to und fiom New York for pier delivery 4S hours after arrival will be
accepted, as will carloads under special agreement and lots routed over the
Clyde-Morgan line beyond New York. The "M and M" embaigo, coming from
Savannah, is for all shipments to this city except perishable goods. Th
freight (.ougestlju lieie Is given ns the cause.
DR. ADLER PREDICTS INFLUX OF JEWISH STUDENTS
An influx if Jewish students to this country after the war is the prediction
of Dr. Cyrus Adler, president of DropMo College for Hebrew and Cognate Learn
ing. This will bo caused by the destruction ot the synagogues, houses of
leninlng nnd valuable books und parchments in eastern Europe and pnrts of
Asiu. wheie the war has raged, ho said. This country will bo expected to
furnish Intellectual opportunity as well as material icgoneratlon. Doctor Adler
spoke at tho Founder's Day exercises last night.
STATE BOARD TO STUDY FEEBLE-MINDEDNESS
A State commission to study feeble-mlndedness nnd to determine methods
of ti eating It will bo nppointed by Governor Brumbaugh, according to a letter
from him to Dr. Walter S. Cornell, director of medical Inspection in the public
schools. The Governor', letter vvns lead by Dr. Charles II. Frazler, president
U tho, Public Charities Association of Pennsylvania, at tho annual meeting ot
the association at tho Uellevue-Stratford last night. The commission will work
in co-operation with the association. The fceble-mindedncss exhibit, recently
shown In the "Widener Building, will bo shown throughout tho State.
.'5133 BRITISH CIVILIANS KILLED IN WAR
LONDON. March 10. That 31S3 civilian men, women and children have been
Killed by tho enemies of England since the war started, not counting noncom
batnnts who were purposely executed, Is tho assertion made in u Parliamentary
paper issued by Premier Asqulth today. Forty-nine men, 39 women and 39 chiU
then were killed In bombardments, while U'7 men, 92 women and 57 children
lost their lives tu nlr raids. From August 4, 19H, to Maich 8, 1916, approxN
matcly 2760 persons lost their lives on British merchant ships and fishing vessels,
NORTHCLIFFE'S VALET FINED AS SLACKER
LONDON. March 10. "William Stephen Blown, Loul Not thcllffe's vulet, has
been sentenced to iay J100 fine or serve 41 dajs in Jail at Bow , street for
corruptly offering 5 to Dr. Joseph Revllle McDonnell, n medical officer on the
recruiting staff, as an inducement to reject him as physically unlit for military
service. On behalf of Lord Northcllffe It was declared tha valet had represented
that he had been twice rejected from the army. Otherwise, it was saldV his lord
ship would not have taken Brown Into his service.
LONDON LOOKS FOR PEACE MOVE BY TURKS
LONDON, Match 10. The Foreign Office has received no official advices
that Turkey Is seking"peace. However, the impression prevails, from what Is
known of conditions In Turkey, that there is a strong probability of an early move
n that direction.
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Generally fair tonight and Saturday;
colder in the early viorntng and on
Saturday; ttrong westerly winds.
for $9tUl8 86t page 17,
NEWS
XOST AND POUND
iACiSU37'l,P., ?'-nd n4 MPoht..
OulbU bracelet. PrlJay evening-, MrVS;"
between RltUnhoui la au-ra and lUti-tUrl
ton.
n. uuiain tr aiamoivas and tt ii.ii
ipphlre. mounted iu cUUnuni. WUerJl, -rU
If returnTta f It fl 1 TTT
a
BUB Chlnut it
BAR VIS It. Tueeday tnlne -rli 7 in
Caxt 1Alg-len. it giaoiona uud nUutnura br
pin. about 3 lnUua lung UUrul reward nj
no qutadon- aiked If rttur.,.-4 te lit V ti
HuNUltti. SUtU aoJ GUard n
Other -t -- -4 A kb rt I
jaaatfateii.n '"-' if i-
