Official
Newspaper of
Olympla
VOL. LV. NO. 5 1
OHIO MAN NAMED
SECRETARY OF WAR
NEWTON D. BAKER, FORMER
MAYOR OF CLEVELAND, IS
CHOSEN BY WILSON.
Newton D. Baker, former mayor of
Cleveland, Ohio, and recognized as
one of the big men of that state, is the
man selected by President Wilson for
secretary of war. His nomination
went to the senate Tuesday and was
confirmed the same day so the new
secretary could tike charge of the
war department's plans for army in
creases and reorganization.
Unanimous commendation of Mr.
Baker'B appointment was expressed
by cabinet members, while Gen. Hugh
L. Scott, secretary of war ad interim,
told the president the nomination hfd
been very favorably received among
army officers.
Mr. Baker is a lawyer, and as a
leader among Ohio Democrats has
been a warm supporter of the Wilson
policies since the pre-convention cam-,
paign In 1912. He has been a close
personal friend of Mr. Wilson since
the latter was his instructor years ago
at Johns Hopkins university, and was
offered the post of secretary of the
interior in the original Wilson cab
inet, but declined because he then
was mayor. He is understood to be
In thorough accord with the presi
dent on the preparedness program
and foreign questions.
Is 44 Tears Old.
Mr. Baker is 44 years old. He was
born In Martinsburg, W. Va., and at
the age of 25 was appointed private
secretary to Postmaster General. Wil
son in President Cleveland's cabinet.
In 1897 he began the practice of law
at Martinsburg, but not long there
after moved to Cleveland, where he
became city solicitor in 1902. He
held that dßlce for 10 years until his
election as mayor.
Mr. Baker has received degrees
from Johns Hopkins and Washington
and Lee universities. He is a mem
ber of the Phi Oamma Delta frater
nity and served as its national presi
dent nntil Jnst recently.
Original Wilson Man.
At the Baltimore convention four
years ago, when President Wilson
was nominated, Mr. Baker was prom
inently mentioned for the vice presi
dency because of the light he made
in support of Mr. Wilson. He went
to the convention as a Wilson sup
porter and fought successfully
against the application of the unit
rule to the Ohio delegation.
Mr. Baker is highly regarded by
the president as a lawyer. Mr. Wil
son wanted the place filled by an
attorney because of legal questions
constantly arising in the administra
tion of the war department's affairs.
To Decide West Charges.
Action on the report submitted at
the last meeting by the special com
mittee which heard the trial of Ar
thur G. West of Brighton Park on
charges preferred by former County
Agent O. C. Van Houten, will be the
feature of the March meeting of the
Thurston County Pomona Orange,
which is to be held at the South Bay
Orange hall, Tuesday, March 2 V The
committee in charge of transportation
for the meeting Is composed of N. C.
Christensen of Mud Bay, Travis Ayer
of Chambers' Prairie and E. T.
Palmer of Pleasant Olade.
Potato Club Meets Saturday.
Considerable interest is attached to
the meeting of the Olympla Potato
club at the Chamber of Commerce at
1 o'clock Saturday afternoon, when
papers on "Seed and Preparation of
Soils for Planting" are to be read by
John Rogers of Pleasant Olade, vice
president of the club, and H. P.
Brlggs of Chambers' Prairie.
W. R. Roy Resigns.
Asking to be relieved of his duties
because of ill health, W. R. Roy,
state highway commissioner since his
appointment by Governor Lister in
December, 1913, handed in his res
ignation Wednesday and it was ac
cepted. His successor will be ap
pointed within the next few days, the
governor said, and James Allen, chief
engineer of the department, who has
made an excellent record in that po
sition, is considered the most prob
able nominee.
WasliiiMtM
ESTABLISHED NOV. 17, 1860 OLYMPIA, WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1916
START SHINGLE CAMPAIGN.
First Gun Fired in National Publicity
When 40,000 pamphlets were
mailed this week all over the United
States, the first gun waß fired by 36
shingle manufacturers in Western
Washington, Oregon and British Co
lumbia in their big national adver
tising campaign, designed to reach
millions of builders in all parts of the
United States, and to boost the red
cedar shingle, advertised under the
trade-mark "Rite-Grade."
Incidentally, lumbermen declare,
the start of this publicity work marks
the beginning of a new era in the
shingle industry in this territory—
an era in which the manufacturers,
perhaps for the first time in the his
tory of the business, are co-operating
shoulder to shoulder in an effort to
market their product.
DAIRY ORGANIZER
COMING NEXT WEEK
HOPES TO SPEND SEVERAL DAYS
IN COUNTY—TO ATTEND BIG
MEETING MARCH 18.
All preparations have been made
for the big dairy meeting to be held
in this city Saturday, March 18, un
der the auspices of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Thurston County
Dairymen's association, when C. L.
("Farmer") Smith, agriculturist of
the Union Pacific system, bis eon,
Lou S. Smith, and E. O. Oibson, rep
resentative of the federal department
of agriculture, who is at work assist
ing in the organization of cow-test
ing associations and other co-opera
tive organizations of farmers in
Western Washington, will be the
speakers.
Mr. Gibson writes L. R. Campbell,
president of the Dairyman's associa
tion, that be will be in Olympia with
out doubt March 18, and may reach
here earlier next week, to organise a
cow-teating association in this county.
He is working in Mount Vernon and
is scheduled tb go to Lynden Friday
to organise a co-operative cheese fac
tory there, but if he is able to arrange
his work to come here about the
middle of next week, as he hopea to,
he believes he will be able to effect
an organization in this county be
fore he has to return to the north
western part of the state the first of
the following week.
There have been no changes in the
program announced last week for the
two days' visit here March 17 and 18
of "Farmer" Smith and his son, who
Is an expert milk tester. Friday af
ternoon he will talk to the pupils of
the high school, Friday evening he is
to address a meeting of local busi
ness men, and Saturday he will join
in the big dairy meeting. During
their stay here the railroad experts
will lay especial stress on corn-grow
ing and will also feature cow-testing,
making free tests of milk for any
farmer who brings samples.
They will inaugurate here a cam
paign for corn-growing and dairying
throughout Southwest Washington
and will visit practically every city
In this section. They will go from
here to Tenlno, where they held
meetings last year. Several farmers
in that part of the county who grew
corn at their suggestion and under
their direction, will report on the re
sults of their first year's work.
Initiatives Temporarily Enjoined.
Arguments will be heard next
Tuesday by Superior Judge D. P.
Wright in the suit brought by various
companies and business firms of the
state to permanently enjoin the circu
lation of petitions for the first aid
and the fish Bills, two Initiative meas
ures recently filed by the Joint Legis
lative committee, on the ground that
the bills contain arguments and that
the title of the first aid bill Is insuf
ficient. The plaintiffs contend that
the arguments were Incorporated in
the measures so the initiators could
[avoid paying the fee for including
them in the Initiative pamphlets.
Judge Wright heard the preliminary
arguments last Monday, and granted
la temporary injunction until next
Tuesday.
This week has been celebrated
through the United States as "Better
Babies Week."
Plan of Northwest Mills.
"Hew to the Line, Let the Chips Fall Where they May."
OPENING 60NS OF STATE CAMPAIGN ARE FIRED
HAY DECLARES LISTER'S PROMISES OF ECONOMY NOT KEPT
GOVERNOR, REPLYING, POINTS OUT GLARING ERROR IN PRE
DECESSOR'S FIGURES, CALLS ATTENTION TO OTHER MISTAKES
AND MISREPRESENTATIONS AND GIVES REVIEW OF STATE
FINANCES.
What is put forth by Republicans as the opening gun of the guberna
torial campaign in this state was fired by former Governor M. E. Hay in
a statement published with considerable flourish and much trumpeting in
many of the Republican newspapers throughout the state last Sunday
attacking Governor Lister on the ground that his campaign promises of
economy had not been kept, but that on the other hand his administration
had been far more costly than Hays'. Governor Lister replied to Hay,
Wednesday, the letter being given out for publication Thursday afternoon.
It is a detailed discussion and comparison of state finances. The two letters
follow:
What Hay Said.
Hon Ernest Lister, Olympla.
Dear Sir: For some time I have
noticed articles in the press dealing
with state finances and making claims
of great savings by your administra
tion as compared with the record of
the previous administration. While
these articles were evidently inspired
from the same source, no one was
quoted as authority for the alleged
facts presented, and I did not feel
called upon to challenge the mis
leading statements until you ap
proved and repeated them in a
speech recently made at a Democratic
luncheon in thjs city.
I feel that regard for the truth and
in justice to the people of this state,
as well as to myself, the misconcep
tion under which you evidently are
laboring should be cleared away by
presenting the facts in order that
others may not be misled as you have
been.
Says Taxes Jump $7,081,372.
Figures without explanation often
lead to mistaken conceptions. Tou
fall into this error when you point to
the overdraft of $450,000 at the time
you' took office, and the balance now
In the treasury of $1,115,000, then
by adding these figures claim a saving
of $1,565,000 in three years.
If we consider that In the last
three years of my administration the
people were called upon to pay 915,-
802,542, while in the first three years
of your adminstration they had to dig
up (24,483,914 in taxes, or 97,881,•
372 more In the same length of time,
can't you see, dear governor, that
your administration has been more
costly, not more economical, than
mine?
When I entered upon the duties of
chief executive I found the adminis
tration with very little cash in the
treasury confronting a bonded in
debtedness of 91.200,000, which was
a legacy from the Rogers adminis
tration of which you claimed to be
an important member. When I left
office in January, 1913, this bonded
debt had been fully discharged, but
the general fund account was tempo
rarily overdrawn 9450,000.
Explains His Financing.
In addition to paying off the bond
ed debt of the state, we loaned to the
capitol building fund 9376,000 for
building the Temple of Justice, ex
pecting to return this amount to the
general fund from moneys derived
from the sale of capitol building fund
bonds, as directed by the legislature.
(See sees. 4 and 5, ch. 59, Session
Laws, 1911). Owing to the low rate
of interest these bonds were to bear
and a decision of the supreme court
that the money from the permanent
funds could not be Invested in this
class of bonds, the bonds could not
be sold except at a sacrifice, and we
considered it better business to leave
the overdraft than to sacrifice the
bonds. >
In a paid advertisement in the
Spokesman-Review of November 3,
1912, you made the following prom
ise: "Ernest Lister pledges a reduc
tion of at least $1,000,000 annually
and the people know that Lister
means business, for he has been tried
and found true as steel."
Takes "Charitable" View.
This was a campaign document and
I did not then believe that you were
so ignorant of the state government
as to think that by your individual
efforts you could effect such a saving.
I do not now charge you with bad
faith in giving currency to statements
purporting to show that you have
saved large sums over the previous
administration. I am charitable
enough to believe that you fail now,
as you did before election, to compre
hend the facts. I prefer to believe
that you voice misleading assertions
through inability to understand flg-
Continued on Page Five.
Lister's Answer.
March 8, 1916.
Honorable M. E. Hay,
Spokane, Washington.
Dear Sir: I have before me your
letter of the 3rd instant. As the let
ter is largely devoted to a comparison
of the financial management of the
state during the last three years you
were its acting chief executive and
the first three years of my adminis
tration, naturally to your credit as a
financier, I cannot refrain from call
ing your attention to a $1,000,000
error in simple subtraction in the fig
ures quoted in your letter. In the
fourth paragraph you deduct $15,-
802,542 from $24,483,914 and make
the difference $7,681,372. I submit
ted the problem to my 12-year-old boy
and he made the difference $8,681,-
372. Any 12-year-old boy could do
the same.
Shall this $1,000,000 error, made
in a letter wherein you are endeavor
ing to show your great ability as a
financier, be taken as evidence that
during your administration of state
affairs an "error" of this magnitude
meant nothing "among friends?" May
not errors such as this have caused
the taxpayers of the Btate, on that day
■o firmly fixed in your mind—Novem
ber Ith, 1912—t0 have decided by
their 'votes that a change in the posi
tion then occupied by you would be
to their benefit?
J. F. Leghorn, a member of the
State Bureau of Inspection, In the
March'sth issue of an Olympia paper,
Is given the credit of having furnished
you the figures used in your letter.
If this be the case you can probably
escape responsibility for the "error"
by placing it upon his shoulders. But
in justice to those who may have read
your letter, as published in the news
papers of this and adjoining states,
ought you not at least to have gone
to the trouble of checking over the
figures, and thus maintain—at least
to yourself—the high standard yon
| place upon your ability as a financier?
Discusses Tax Levies.
In studying your letter I find one
paragraph In it to refer to tax levies
for all purposes during the last three
year period of your administration
and also during the first three years
of the present administration, while
the balance of the letter is devoted
largely to a discussion of the general
fund of the state, covering the same
periods. So that these may not be
confused I will first take up the gen
eral fund, which covers the running
expenses of the state government and
Its institutions, other than educa
tional, while the balance of the tax
levies are made to raise funds for the
common schools, state institutions of
higher education, state militia and
highways.
First, may I call your attention to
the fact that taxes levied by the State
Board of Equalization at its meetings
held in September of each year are
not collected until the following year,
and are intended to cover current ex-
penses incurred during the year in
which the collections are made. I
And that in making your comparisons
you take the tax lovies made in Sep
tember, 1910, 1911 and 1912, appar
ently for the purpose of leaving the
impression that the current expenses
for the years 1910, 1911 and 1912
were paid from theße levies.
Is it not true that the levy for gen
eral fund purposes fixed in Septem
ber, 1909, and which was 3 mills, was
j collected In 1910 for paying the 1910
current expenses? Is it not equally
! true that the levy made in September,
1912, which was 1.23 mills, was not
collected until 1913, and was for the
purpose of meeting the current ex
penses of 1913, the first year of the
present administration? If a truthful
reply be given to these questions, then
j in making your comparison covering
| Continued on Page Five.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
FIR TREE RAISES WAGES.
30 Per Cent Increase for All Employes
I of Mill, Effective March 15.
A 10 per cent increase in wages to
all employes has been granted by the
Fir Tree Lumber company, according
to J. G. Startup, vice president and
general manager of the firm, who has
charge of the Tacoma office of the
mill. The increase will become effec
tive March 16. Similar increases have
been made by other mills in this vicin
ity.
The Fir Tree Lumber company's
mill is located at Gregory's Spur, in
the southeastern part of the county,
and has a capacity of about 80,*000
feet a day. It has been operating 10
hours a day for some time past. The
increase in wages was granted be
cause of the improvement in the lum
ber business and the desire of the
company to have its employes share
in the increased business that has
been coming in of late.
GILLIES IS GIVEN
41-2-YEAR SENTENCE
NEW TRIAL IN FIRST CASE DE
NIED, COURT FIXES MINI.
MUM TERM.
His motion for a new trial denied,
J. F. Gillies, former claim agent of
the Industrial insurance commission,
was sentenced to a minimum of four
and one-half years in the Walla Walla
penitentiary by Superior Judge John
R. Mitchell Thursday morning, on
the first verdict against him, that of
guilty of forgery in connection with
the industrial insurance frauds.
Gillies will appear Friday after
noon before Superior Judge D. F.
Wright, who heard the second case
against him In which he was convict
ed of grand larceny, and the motion
for a new trial of that case will be
argued then. It Is expected that it
also will be denied and that a sen
tence similar to the one in the first
case will he Imposed. The maximum
of the sentence Is fixed at 20 years
by statute.
Expected to Appeal.
Gillies' counsel, Thomas M. Vance
and Parr 4fc Marts made, made strong
arguments In his behalf before Judge
Mitchell Thursday morning, while
Gillies himself, when asked if he had
anything to say, still Insisted to the
court that he was not guilty. He is
| expected to appeal the case, but he
probably will be taken to Walla Walla
Immediately after the case before
Judge Wright Is disposed of.
| Shortly after the Gillies' hearing
was ended, Frank Stone, who in the
Gillies' trial confessed his part in the
frauds, was brought before the court
and former Prosecuting Attorney T.
L. O'Leary was appointed as his coun
sel by Judge Mitchell. When origi
nally arraigned shortly after his ar
rest Stone pleaded not guilty to the
charge of forgery and retained At
torneys Vance and Parr & Marts as
his counsel. They withdrew when he
later confessed. Stone will be brought
before the court again in a few days,
to change his plea to guilty and re
ceive his sentence.
Kearns Asks Dismissal.
I Wednesday afternoon Vance, as at
torney for Oene Kearns, the local sa
loonkeeper charged with complicity
in the frauds, filed a motion to dis
miss the charge on the ground that
Kearns had not been brought to trial
within the statutory limit of 60 days.
This will not be contested by the
state, it is understood, but, as the
charge Is a felony and such a course
is permissible under the statute, a
second information. It Is reported,
will be filed against Kearns later,
probably after the trial of Arthur
("Monk") Toung, the Tacoma sa
loonkeeper similarly involved, is com
pleted.
Townsend R«v Elected Director.
In an election marked by but little
excitement, E. C. Townsend was re
elected a director of the Olympia
school district last Saturday by a vote
of 494 to 174 for his opponent, Fred
H. Sylvester, a local Socialist. Con
siderable electioneering was done
throughout the day by the friends of
both candidates, but less than a third
of the city's normal vote was cast.
Published
Continuously
| For 55 Years
WHOLE NUMBER 2896
CONGRESS STANDS BY
WILSON TWO TO ONE
PRESIDENT WINS DECISIVE VIC
TORY IN FIGHT OVER WARN
ING RESOLUTION.
After seven hours of a tense, tor
bulent session, which the Associated
Press described as the most nniir
tional congressional spectacle ot a
decade, probably unequalled since
the declaration of war with Spain,
President Wilson Tuesday complete
ly and decisively won his long fight
to compel congress to acknowledge
that it stands behind him in the sub
marine negotiations with Germany.
The vote was 276 to 140, or practi
cally two to one, in support of the
president.
To the rallying cries of "Stand by
the president," and "Is It Lansing
and Wilson or Von Bernstorff and the
kaiser?" a big Democratic majority
and nearly half the Republicans lft
the house rolled up overwhelming
votes against the movement to warn
Americans otf armed ships of the En
ropean belligerents, a movement
championed by William Jennings
Bryan, former secretary of state.
Resolution Is Killed.
The celebrated McLemore resolu- x
tion, around which the anti-admlnle
tration forces centered their fight,
was tabled—in other words, killed—
Just as was the Gore resolution for a
similar purpose in the senate last
week.
Prom the very outset of the fight
the president's supporters, without
regard to party, swept over the oppo
sition. It was a personal victory for
him as well as a victory tor his ad
ministration, as* it meant the defeat
of the Bryan element in his party In
the first clash over a vital question.
President Wilson, calm ahd confi
dent. heard the early results of the
voting in the cabinet room at the
White House with some of the cabi
net grouped about him. He told
them he waa much gratified with the
support of congryw.
Released from the bonds of embar
rassment forced upon him by the die*
sensfons In congress, which have been
represented In foreign capitals as it*
dlcating that he was making his de
mands on Germany In direct opposi
tion to the sentiment of the eleeted
representatives of the people. Presi
dent Wilson immodiately resumsd the
submarine negotiations with the ess
tral powers.
Answers Berlin Reports.
The president and his advisers re
gard the action of congress as a suffi
cient answer to reports circulated In
Berlin, sent from Washington, that
congress stood two to one against
him In the crisis.
"Stand by the president and do net
embarrass him in his diplomatic ne
gotiations with foreign countries,"
was the whole burden of the argu
ment of the adminatration leaders.
To a man they Insisted the president
did not want war. No one attempt
ed, as was the case in the senate last
week, to say that anything the presi
dent had said indicated that he ex
pected war.
"It Is charged that the president
wanta war," said Acting Chairman
Pou of the rules committee, who
opened the debate. "All the imps of
hell never devised a more infamotw
charge. No man since Abraham Lin
coln has gone through such a teat a*
the president in the last six month*
to avoid war. He has tried to pre
serve peace. He would not sacrifice
a single life to make himself presi
dent for his lifetime."
In the final vote, 182 Democrats,
93 Republicans and 1 Progressive
voted with the president. Of the del
egation from , this state, Congress
men Dill, Democrat, and Johnson,
Humphrey and Hadley, Republicans,
voted with the president, and Con
gressman LaFollette on the other
side.
K earns* Verdict "Not Guilty."
After deliberating for four hour*,
a Jury in the local superior court re
turned a verdict of "not guilty" late
Tuesday night, in the case brought
against Gene Kearns, former local
saloonkeeper, on the charge of hav
ing received stolen goods from one
Harold Leinnan, who robbed a Taeo
ma store. The trial started last Sat
urday.
