V
WEATHER FORECAST:
Partly, Cloudy; Colder
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
NUMBER 8835.
WASHINGTON, FRIDAY EVENING-, MAECH l, 1016.
PBICE ONE CENT.
4
'
WILSON ORDERS TROOPS
TO MEXICO TO GET VILLA
CLERKS' UNION
ASKS HOUSE TO
DEFEAT RIDER
Condemns Borland Amendment
as Inimical to Interests of
Government Employes.
ACTION MAY BE DELAYED
Condemning the Borland rider
as unnecessary, uneconomic, and
inimical to the interests of Gov
ernment employes in general, Fed
eral Civil Service Employes'
Union, No. 150007, A. F. of L.,
made its first formal .plea to
the members of Congress.
A resolution setting forth these
facts was "presented by a com
mittee of five members to Speaker
Clark and Ouurmnn Fi'teewnlrl. nf'ro keeping n closo watch on thelr,i
0.., .
the Committee on Appropriations.
Thus thejabor union formed by.
tho emnloves of the fJnvftrnmnnt
m . . .....
ucuaiuucnis as a result 01 ino in-
traduction of the Borland amend
ment introduced itself as ai.'
organization purposed to work
actively for the interests of the
department clerk.
NOW HAS AUTHORITY.
While only a temporary organization
has yet been formed, tho Clerks' Union
lias secured the necessary authority
from the American Federation of Labor
through the affiliation of Individual
memtxra with tho Federation, and has
been designated as Federal Civil Service
Employes' Union, No. 16007.
Tho resolution presented to the
House today was authorized by the
Unanimous vntn nf nu mnnv H.n.i4MnH,'
clerks as could be crowded Into Typo-i
(Continued on Page Fifteen.)
Mexican Envoy Arredondo, in
Statement, Thinks Villa
Courts Intervention.
Ellseo Arredondo, ambassador desig
nate from Mexico, commenting on tho
Assault of Villa and his band of ma
rauders on Columbus, N. M"., said today
that he was deeply moved by the In
cident and regretted that the garrison
In Columbus may have been so small
m to encourage Villa to make tho
assault. ,
This act of VHa. he declares, clearly
shows his Intention to provoke a con
flict between the two countrios by ex
citing sentiment to tho extent of caus
ing his prosecution across the bound
ary line.
Mr. Arredondo said :
"I called on Mr. Lansing to ascertain
the truth and from him I learned that
American troops had crossed the linn
In pursuit of Villa. This Information I
communicated to my government In the
tarns terms In which It was given to me
In the department, and. up to this mo
ment I have received lib Instructions or
any details from Mexico.
'Thorofore. thero Is absolutely no
foundation for any statements pub
lished that I hud npproved or even
glcn nn opinion on tho Incident."
Mr. Arredondo Is Just In receipt of a
telegram from the border advising him
that the constitutionalist consul In Co
lumbus Is among the missing, nnd It la
believed that he was either killed or
taken prisoner by tho Vlllistas,
Body of Wealthy Society
Leader Is Found in River
MOBILE. Ala.. March lO.-Thn body
of Henry W. .Shields, Jr., wealthy so
ciety lender, was found Moating last
night lir tho Alabamu ilvcr. His pockets
vwie lilted with rocks.
Nlilelds disappeared February ZY.
Huslnepii cares are bellovcd to huvo been
responsible for his death.
Finn:;
WEAKNESS
OFCOLUMBUSGUARD
MEXICAN
OUTLAWS
MING RAIDS
Bandits Cross Border During
Night and Early Morning and
Attack Ranchers.
TROOPS ARE SPREAD OUT
COLUMBUS. March lO.-norcicr raids
on American rnnchera and farmers con-;
tlnucd today.
Again Invading the United States. VII
llsta bands thin mfornlng and last night
crossed tho border at several points be
tween Columbus and Huchltu, looting
, ranch houses, driving olf stock, and de
stroying bulldlnga.
"inero were no Americans murdered,
according to telephone advices re'ie'vid
hero toduy.
Rports to Colonel Ploeiim dated tho
Villa raiders had been c mpletely clear
ed from American . . II before noon.
United Statu boldlers on patrol duty
reported largo buru.s cf Mexicans narnp
ed close to tho borJer at Bevcral points
Just beforo daylight several bands
which llgurcd in the mlda today re
croiHcd to the Mexican side.
4,000 Bandits There.
Vlllistas, esflmati'd now at 4,000, wore
believed to bo lurkluc within a few
miles of the International boundary.
Wherever visible, the Amorlcan tatrols
movements. -mere was n. indication
STS? -$?M 10meoh2S
.re'ement, frem Vdtt Bis.-R.vtf
readied Victor. N. m where the inhab-
Hants weoi' in terror, tearing the Villa
anacx
The Drat battalion of tho
Twentieth Infantry detralne at shortly I
after 7 a. m. and pitched their camp at i
i no cage oi me town close to the bor
der. Bands of Vlllistas wer within a mile,
of Vlctorio early today, but made no at
tempt to attack the hamlet.
Whllo cowboys. State mllltlamon and
alt citizens capable of bearing arms
were coming to the protection of tho
border towns, extensive troop move
ments were taking placo today along
the border.
Two companies of the Sixth United
States Infantry went to Ran Bernard
ino, N. M., -to ro-enforce the patrol
there.
A battalion of tho Eleventh United
States Infantry icllcvcd a avalry de
tachment nt Hachlta. leaving the
mounted troops'frse to act as a, mobile
flelrl fnr
Tho infuntry troops at Douglas were
temporarily attached to tho Second
cnvairy ungado under command of
Col. George A. Dodd.
Douglas citizens placed their automo
Mles at tho dlsptsai of the army.
Tho largo Mexican quarter u.t Bl Paso
was under heavy guard last night
whllo double Dalrols guarded the Inter
national brldgo and were posted along
the river.
. ,T.nS rea80n more Americans were not
iho X-'i"8,10.8 toQt'nsr. S. II. Burch
field, robbed by a squad of Mexicans,
escaped while they were arguing over
tho division of tho spoils.
ino Mexicans abandoned a part
of
(Continued on Second Page.)
Refuse to Discuss
Discipline Report
War Officials Have No Confirma
tion of Charges Against
Officers at Columbus.
Secretary of War Baker and Oeneral
hcott, chief of staff, refused today to
discuss reports that officers nt Colum
bus may be disciplined for leaving the
town practically umlulnndcd. or that
tho michlno gun fallo3 to work.
No report corroborating either rumor
has been recoived by the department
and officials refused to discuss them
until official advices are received from
Oeneral Funston.
War Dopartmont officials, while re
fusing t obo quutc,d, wer strong In
their support of acneral FunHton's re
quest for permission to send troons
ncross tho border to capture Villa.
Ueneral Funston 3 expected to send
a full report Into Udny,
American Eagle Flies
Off White House Pole
In the midst of the Mexican
excitement last night trie
American eagle flew off the
flag-pole at the White House.
The flight, however, was due to
a sudden gust of wind.
Now the etgle is being gilded
in the basement of the White
House.
ON AMERICAN SOIL
Jf "C- '. 5 - IL''vSlsillllillllllW
ir ftttaJAiiiskdtfvv HiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiHliiiiHliiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH
HHHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH i J l"i WTi ..I t 1 1 iiMBBIUM
HHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBllllllllllllllllllllllllllllw THi2tfiBlllllll(ilillilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli.
r r CiwIiIIILIIIIIIBMWmBIIHBIIBBIiIIIIBB
rsiiiiSPl" V'iU3i"rBHPBBBBHMBflBHBsilBi&!?!rSiiiiiiiiB
Tr" jw vHPZssHIiIIIIiHHiIiHhuiIIIIIIIH
GENERAL
Senators
Voice Pleas
The feeling of Indignation which has
been aroused over the country by tho
Columbus massacro broke out In the
Senate this afternoon.
Senator Ashurst In a speech voiced
his own Indignation and the resent
ment of his constituents.
Senator MtCumber of North Dakota
end Senator Fall of New Mexico, offer
ed resolutions for the purposes of deal
ing with the situation.
Tho MoCumbcr resolution authorized
and directed the President to send a
punitive expedition Into Mexico to hunt
down Villa and other bandits.
For Half Million Men.
Tho Fall resolution authorizes and di
rects tho President to use the land and
naval forces and call for 600.000 volun
teers to protoct lives nnd proicrty of
Americans In Mexico and restore or
derly government.
riy Kuvcrnrncni. i
Senator Stone, chairman of Foreign
Helntions pleaded with Senators to ro-
fraln from discussion until the Presi
dent and Cabinet had time to act.
Counsels Patience.
I think every Senator of the United
Stntcs," said Senator Stone, "feels oh j
Indignant nnd resentful over this brutal
and bloody outrage as does tho Senator
from Arizona. The Cabinet Is In "e
slon. Tho President nnd Cabinet are
In rnnaultatlnn with thn military au
thorities. Until tho Senate Is InformeJ
as to the facts and the entlro sltuat'on,
It seems to mo It will comport better
with the dignity nnd responsibility of
Rrnntnrn to wait for a few hours."
Senator McCumber's resolution recites
tho fact that murder of American men,
women, nnd children bv Mexican bandlta
has continued more man two yen una
thnt 'acts or robbery and or ncnaisn
tinitalltv towards American citizens"
havo been of weekly occurrence; that
this Government has exhausted efforts
to provont recurrnnco of atrocities by
peaceful means; that American terri
tory liaH actually been Invaded by Villa:
that thero Is no covernment In Mexico.
capablo of punishing the atrocious nets
commuted anu tnat sucn a situation
can no longer bo borne.
Directs President.
It then provides that tho President
be directed Immediately to send to
Mexico a sufficient forco to hunt down
and destroy tho murdering bands nnd
punish nil thoso guilty of theso atroci
ties wherever thoy may bo found.
The President is authorized to use
whatever forco Is necessary to meet op
position from any sourco In Mexico.
, That tho President be authorized
nnd directed to use the land and naval
forces, and to cnll Into servlco 600,000
volunteers to protoct tho lives and
property of Americans In Mexico, nnd
to open nnd mantnln all rail and other
lines of communclntlon between tho
city or siexico nnd tho seaports of Mex
po
the
Ico, ns well as with tho American
border.
Further. It provides for the prompt
establishment of p. constitutional gov
ernment In Mexico wlU sufficient aun-
FUNSTON.
Indignant,
for Action
port to enable tho Mexicans themselvea
to aisarm an bandits and murderers.
and restore order and peace.
It continues:
"Herfiilved further. That we declare
our miipos.a not to be thn
acquisition or nnnoirntlnn nf tan-Hnrv
tho overthrow of luws, customs, or con-
nuiiuion, ino maxing or war upon tho
Mexican people, or interference with tho
Mexicans in tho government of their
country, and wo declare our further
purpose to be the withdrawal of all our
uriueu torccs jrom Mexican territory
Immediately upon tho accomplishment
of the objects herein set forth, and
to these ends we Invite tho co-operation
' mu Mexican people.
Tillman's Views.
"We'll have to go In there and WU
off thoso thieves, robbers, bandits, and
murderers," sold Senator Tillman to
day. "That's all they are. Our troops
-.nuiu an wiejr arc. uur iraops
ought to be moving now I never heard
o fa more wanton and unprovoked at
tack. Villa's object seems to be to
embroil us, tut I can't understand what
good that will do him."
Senator Ashhurst of Arizona charred
that tho State and War Departments
had plnnned not more thnn five davs
n?o to icmove troops from th Mexican
border and that for more than .1v
months, despite Incessant entreaties,
they have refined to regard tho border
rltuntlon as dangerous. Senator Ash-
nurst llrcialmed any enmity toward
Administration alms nnd th Mexican
v KPiierauy, wnicn ni
upported,
rur nve montns I nave been a con
htimt visitor of tho War and State
departments," he said. "Time after
lime I havo placed boforo them the
most earnest pleading for adequate
protection for Amoricnn border towns.
The catastrophe of two nights ago
was forecast to those departments as
nearly as human event can be fore
cast. Reads Telegrams.
"Vet they wero so suro that nothing
would happen that, not only did they
refuse to increase their forces but they
proposed to remove many of them dos-
slbly to maneuccr or to train with Na
tional uunrnsmen at some safe placo In
the States."
Ashurst read a number of telegrams
from his constituents tmoklnir bin .Ha.
gallons and urging posslblo danger to
Arizona towns.
llo said ho agreed fullv with the posi
tion taken by Senator Stone,
Senator Ashurst. on tho other hand,
demanded Immediate nrllnn nn h
resolutions.
llo was defeated under a Hennte n..
ltamontary rule.
War Council Meets.
PARIS, March 10. The war council
of the allies met nt Glyseo Palace this
morning.
Only $10.75 To Jacksonville. Flo..
and return March Mth via Atlantlo Coo:
Line. Good for twenty-one days. vAUvt
FUNSTON ORDERED
TO PUT HIS FORGES
IN FIELD AT ONCE
Action Taken By President Following Meeting of
Cabinet, Without Consent of Carranzista Gov
ernment But No Objection Is Looked For.
"An adequate force will be sent at once in pursuit of Villa with'
the single object of capturing him and putting a stop to his forays. This
can and will be done in entirely friendly aid of the constituted author
ities in Mexico and with scrupulous respect for the sovereignty of that
republic."
This statement was issued at the White House today following a
meeting of the Cabinet. It was personally dictated by the President. It
represents the unshaken determination of "the Presidentto- capture
Villa dead or live in punishment of his attack early yesterday morning
on the American town of Columbus, N. M
Already 100 Mexicans have paid with their lives for the invasion of
American territory. But Villa must be taken.
This was the order sent to General Funston this afternoon.
The orders were dispatched by Secretary of War Baker. It is
understood that General Funston has been given discretion as to the
number of troops he will employ.
It is understood that efforts are being made by the State Depart
ment to get Carranza troops to operate from the south in order to keep
Villa within striking distance from the border.
To this extent only is any co-operation to be looked for.
While it is believed by the Administration that, the action of the
American Government will not arouse the active antagonism of the
Carranza forces, it is supposed to have been taken with a full apprecia
tion of possible eventualities leading to a general invasion of the trou
bled area.
Inasmuch as Villa himself and his entire band have been publicly
proclaimed by Carranza as beyond the pale of the law it is thought that
Carranza will find a means of acquiescing in the American action and ac
cept it as assistance in the task of crushing a man who has menaced the
peace of Mexico as well as that of the United States.
Before issuing the orders to General Funston, PresMent Wilson
conferred over the telephone with Chairman Stone of the Senate For
eign Relations Committee, and advised him of the course he was about
to pursue. The Senator concurred heartily in the decision.
A "flying column" of about 2,000 men, according to tentative plans of high!
army officers, will constitute the probing force to which will be delegated the
most active work of searching out Villa. This force probably will concentrate
at or near Columbus within twenty-four hours.
From points west and east of Columbus the remainder of the expeditionary
army will be hurried across with supplies and munitions sufficient to last
them until they'have gone far enough south into Mexican territory to turn to
ward each other, thereby surrounding Villa forces if they are able to make a
junction.
"Carranza Has Failed,"
De la Barra Declares
NEW YOHK, March W. "Ueneral
Carranza Iwb failed utterly to restore
peace In Mexico."
Thin wns tho statement of Krariclsco
do la Uarra, former Mexican foreign
minister and Provisional President, nnd
now an exllo from Moxlco, today, fol
lowing tho Villa raid on Columbus.
Tie la Harm snld the nttack came
frrm a state governed by I'urranza for
nine years, and proved I'arranza's In
ability to pacify the, country.
ENTIRE DIVISI ON ORDERED.
The War Department probably will send an entire di
vision of cavalry into Mexico to carry out President Wil
son's orders for the capture of General Villa.
This division will be divided so that three regiments
may surround the Villa force and drive him to bay.
Secretary of War Baker left the Cabinet meeting early
and went to the War Department to discuss arrangements
with staff officers. Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff
