Till: PF.LM'AX.
A rnro old bird Ir tho pelican,
Ills bill will hold more than his
bcllccan;
Ho enn hold In his benk
Enough for n week,
Yet, 1 don't bco how In tho hcllccnn.
MAYSMCK (Jim, TO ROVER.
I'rof. C. K. Damcron hns resigned
his position as principal of the Dover
school and returned to htfl homo at
Aberdeen, O. Miss Hattlo Forman of
Maysllck, has been secured to com
plete the term, and assumed her now
duties Wednesday hiornlng. Dover
News.
Como out tonight to tho operetta.
"The Posey nod" will bo given by a
large bevy of grndo children. The
jllberettn and lyrics nro by Allco Riley,
;muslc by Jessie Gaynor. You will be
Idelightcd with the costumes and sing
ling of the children. Admission 25 and
35 cents.
Mrs. W. J. Williams of Macon, Oa.,
niece of the late Hon. 11. D. Lovel,
will arrive today to vlBit Mrs. II. B.
Lovel and H. E. Leo Lovel and family.
SKCONl) CHAPTER OF "THE IRON
cii aw" to in: shows at
I'ASTIMi: TODAY.
No one can afford to miss tho splen
did program that tho Pastlmo offers
Its patrons today, both afternoon and
evening. Tho arcond rplsodo of "Tho
Iron Claw" will bo projected. This is
without n doubt one of tho best serials
over produced. The first chapter was
grcnt and tho second chaptor to bo
presented today will be more Interest
ing than tho first and that Is saying a
whole lot. In connection with "The
Iron Clnw" Edna Mayo and Darwin
Karr will bo seen In "A nit of Lace,"
a three-reel Essnnay feature. "Suits,"
nnd "Tho Midnight Prowler," two VI
tagraph comedies, will bo shown
This Is n vnrlcty program that should
please every one.
UO-YKAR-OLI) Vt'O.HAX DIES WHHX
KNITTIMl.
Ashland, Ky., March 10. Mrs. Lou
Ann Moore, 110 years old, died at her
homo at Princess, a few miles from
this city, where sho had lived for near
ly n hundred years. Sho was busy
knitting her grandson of Louisville, a
pair of yarn Bocks, when tho summons
camp.
Time was when children wcro taken
on excursions to see the monkeys at
tho zoo. Now they tako them to sec
tho -Kentucky Legislature. Sam True
In tho Dover News.
Held lly Mason County Woman's Hnf
frnRO Lrngno Thursday
At Library.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Cars For Hire
GoodKar
iir AKRON.OHIO
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED ACAINST
Rim-CuU br (lie No-RIm-Cut feature.
Blowout. by the "On-Air" cure.
LooaTre!i by many rubber rivets.
Imeturitr by 120 braklcd piano wires.
Puncture and Sldddim by tile double-
WICK AU-tvcaucr ircau.
FROM FOREST TO OUR YARD
the lumber that reaches here Is
matter of skilled selection. Only the
stralghtest and soundest trees nro se
lected for our stock and only tho most
perfect planks, etc., from them are SO'
lected as good enough to And n place
here. Consequently to buy lumber
here Is to buy tho best. Wo havo no
other kind.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets,
Phone 510.
A. A. McLaughlin. L. If. Ilchan
Ml
I
Plowing Time I
i Will Be Here, Just As Soon As 5
5 7
i the Sun Shines Hot
g so, be ready, Farmers, to take advantage
g ot the first pretty days. We are ready
! for 7ow, with a splendid line of Plows, both
Oliver and Sycrause, Points, Handles,
Shares, Mouldboards, etc. Just phone us
your wants.
5 Tf vnn nfifH n. nnnd Rn,lc TTnfl. ATnl-
J D 7 7
took, Ax, Fork, or, in fact, any tool needed
on the farm, just tell it to us. We have
good ones in stock, at the right prices.
Just received, a shipment of the neat
est Wheelbarrows you ever saw. Need
one?
Yours, for good Plowing Weather,
soon.
NUKE BROWN I
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
! 1MMMHWWHI!
OLAM CHOWDEE
Finnan Haddock, Bloaters, Herrluff, Codfish, Shrimp, Lobsters, Crabs,
Fish Flakes, Tuna FJ.1l Fat Mackerel, Auckorinei la Oil, Caralr, Oysters,
8rlut. Seasonable rlgfct ew mi Hw tuaWy flue. Soud us your or4r.
At a well attended meeting of .the
Mason County Woman's Suffrage
Lcaguo held Thursday nftornoon at
the Public Library, an unusually large
amount of business was attended to,
owing perhaps to tho stimulus given
tho meeting by tho news from Frnnk
fort that tho woman's suffrago amend
ment bill hnd passed tho Scnnto on
Wednesday,
On Saturday an effort will bo made
to get the bill to a voto In tho Houso
nnd tho leaders at Frankfort want
as many women wearing suffrage
badges In Frankfort on that day as
can get there.
It will bo especially convenient for
Mason county women to go, since on
Saturday an excursion goes from
Maysvlllo to Frankfort nt $1.50 the
round trip, leaving Maysvlllo at 5:35
n. m. and returning at 8:30 that night.
Dinner nt tho Capitol Hotel will cost
75 cents and street cor faro to the
capltol nnd back will bo 10 cents. The
cntlro trip can be made In comfort for
$2.35. Every Mason county woman who
believes in woman suffrage nnd who
wants as soon as possiblo to end the
struggle for the enfranchlsmcnt of
Kentucky women, should go to Frank
fort Snturday ,cvcn at the cost of some
sacrlflco and Inconvenience to herself,
remembering that she Is thus holping
to savo and to mnkc effective the la
bor nnd expense of many years of
work on tho part of these women.
Among tho Interesting plans for the
spring work It was determined at the
meeting Thursday to have a salo of
cakes, candies, salads, and all kinds
of delicacies for tho table on Sat'
urday before Easter.
Every voting precinct In the state
must bo reached with tho suffrage pica
and organized to win In tho general
election or for a renowed effort at the
next session of tho Gencrnl Assembly
If the House falls to pass the bill be
fore the close of this session, nnd mon
ey must be raised to meet tho cost.
It la a time for greater activity on
the part of the county leagues all over
tho state and tho Mason County
League will not bo satisfied not to be
well to the foro with tho other leagues.
MOTORMAX 11I1KAKS A KM.
Motorman Pearl McDonald of the
Maysvlllo Street Railway Company,
while on his second trip going east
Friday morning, met with a painful
accident. Ho had reached the car
barn nnd left his car to go to hja
home across the street to get his
breakfast. In the street was a hoop
His feet caught In the hoop and
tripped him, causing him to fall on
his left side and shoulder. Ho board
ed the westbound car nnd came down
to Dr. A. O. Quigley's office, where
the hurt was examined. Although it
seems to bo In tho left shoulder joint,
It will tako an X-ray examination to
definitely locate It. Pearl is ono of
tho best men running on tho cars and
tho Injury will keep him off duty for
Bomp time.
JVKW MISSIONARY SOCIETY.
A now missionary society, tho
Standard Bearers, was organized at
tho Third Street M. E. church Thurs
day night by Miss Annn Galllmorc,
formerly missionary to India. Tho so
ciety Is composed of young ladles of
tho ago of 12 to 20, with young men
of tho same ago as honorary mem
bers. Tho organization was perfect
ed by tho election of tho following of
ficers:
President Miss Flossie Jones.
Vice President Miss Lillian Muso.
Corresponding Secretary Miss Fro
dn Nauman.
Treasurer Miss Helen Nauman.
OFF TO FRANKFORT.
The nnnounceincnt Hint fllshop An
derson Is to honor Maysvlllo with n
visit In tho nenr future has created
much Interest In church circles. The
visit of n Methodist bishop to Mays
vlllo has always been an occasion of
great Interest. Thoy never fall to
draw largo crowds. A bishop Is chos
en not only for his preaching ability,
but ho must bo a man of wldo experi
ence, deeply religious, n parliamen
tarian second to nouo, nnd n man with
a world vision, IlccnuHo of these qual
ifications demanded by tho church, n
preacher who Is olovated to tills high
office at once becomes a man much
sought after.
In Dishop Anderson will be seen all
these essentia! elements that make a
true bishop. From tho Inquiries con
cerning him slnco tho first announce
ment of his coming, ho will bo greeted
by ono of the largest crowds ever In
tho Third Street Methodist church.
Keep In mind tho date Thursday,
March 23, at 7:30 p. m. Tho big chorus
choir will give some excellent music
also at this service.
RKD MUX ACTIVE.
Elsewhere will bo found n commu
nlcntlon from tho Woman's Club In
reforenco to tho garbngo question In
Maysvlllo. It Is worth reading and It
would bo well to preserve It. Our
streets should bo so clenn that the
children could play In them with the
utmost freedom. At present most
I streets In most oltlcs nro only chan
nels for trnvol and tho refuse of every
j description. Let's make Maysvlllo's
streets nnd nlleys so clenn thnt they
will not bs brecdors of disease.
TO FRANKFORT,
Tho Loulsvlllo & Nashville Railroad
will boII round trip tickets to Frank-
fnr. On..H.1n.. lf..l. . 1 ,
tun ouiuiuu;, iuitiuu ij, iur regular
train, $5:35 n. m., at $1.50 for adults
nnd 7Bc for children. Extra coaches
will bo furnished through to Frank
fort. m9-10
When It comes to "going some," the
local tribe of Red Men Is Just nbout It
at tho present time. Palefaces are be
ing captured and conducted over the
warpath at every meeting night. The
degree team Is Into It tip to their cars,
so to speak. At tlio next regular
meeting, next Tuesdny night, there
will bo four candidates for tho adop
tion degree, and several for tho war
rior and chief degrees. There will be
lively times around tho wigwam. The
tribe cordially Invites all Red Men
who may bo scouting- around these
hunting grounds to visit the tribe and
enjoy the work.
QUARTERLY MEETIXC'.
LIMESTONE HUILMNd
TIOX
ASSOHA.
Opens,. Spring series Saturdny,
.March 4, 30 cents per shnro, never
pays under 5 per cent. You enn ensh
your book, borrow part or full value
nt any time. Money to loan.
If. C. SHARPE, Secretary.
Euchro at Eagl's Hall tonight.
I LIGHTHOUSE CLEANSER f
Lightens Housework
m Will Do the Work Any Other Cleanser Will 5
Do. Same Size Can. Only 5c Per Can. 9
1DZ W. Bunnd St. B
S Dinger Bras.,
Phone 2D.
SMART AND ATTRACTIVE KLW
WALLPAPER IIKSKINS AT HEX.
RRICKSOX'S.
Secretary T P. Iloono ot tho Cham
ber of Commerce, aa transacting busl-
JneBs In Frankfort, (
mini
WANT TO GET FAT?
USE
s
ITonoline Tablets!
We Have Them
S M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY s
-PHONE 91-
m
All tho latest patterns In wallpaper
nt CRANE & SHAFER'S.
Schwartz's Meat Market Is head
quarters for tho latest In flsk.
Rev. E. R. Ovcrley, district supcrln-j
tendent, wll( conduct quarterly moot
ing services nt tho Third Street M. K,
church ono week from next Sunday.'
March in. This will bp tho second
quarterly meeting for the year.
M A I L ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices nro right. Order
today. Poyntz Dros., Covington. Ky.
Miss Sudlo Shcpard was a business
visitor In Cincinnati Thursday.
THE HDME DF QUALITY CLOTHES
It Won't Be Long Now
WHEN THE $15 SALE OP MEN'S CLOTHES WILL BE PAST HISTORY WE ADVISE
YOU NOT TO PUT OFF COMING ANY LONGER.
JUST NOW WE ARE SELLING OUR $18 AND $20 SUITS AT $15. SUCH FAMOUS
MAKES AS R. B. FASHION, SOCIETY BRAND, HIRSH-WICKWIRE, STEIN-BLOCH AND
MICHAELS, STERN & CO.
MONEY WELL INVESTED TO BUY AT THIS PRICE, FOR NEXT WINTER BIG AD
VANCES WILL BE ASKED ON ALL CLOTHES; CAN'T BE HELPED, BECAUSE EVERY
THING THAT GOES INTO THEIR MAKING HAS GONE WAY UP.
WE HAVE THE BIGGEST AND BEST LINE OF BOY'S SHOES IN TOWN. EVERY
PAIR GUARANTEED TO GIVE REASONABLE SATISFACTION.
ccetsaa
Rich Silks That Can Be Used in Countless Ways
mouses, dancing frocks, graceful gowns for afternoon parties, dressy suits for church, for calling, for matlncos.
Not to mention the charming negligees many of tho silks will make.
Resides black, white and cream, thero are tho exquisite pastel shades called mist, primrose, Iris, horizon, spray, tea rose, sunset,
estal blossom nnd mermaid. Some, but by no means all our silks are listed below:
Poplins, 40 Inches wide, brown, green, nnvy, king's blue, gray and biscuit, $1 and $1.& yard.
Georgette crepes, 40 inches wide, white, black, navy, pink and light blue, $1.75 yard.
Cold and silk lnce, l'5c to $2 yard.
Tan and white foulnrd, ilesh, sand and gray messalinp, 29c yard Quantity limited.
Striped, brocaded and figured silks In broad color assortment, 49c yard.
Figured silks in charming color combinations and monotone effectn nt 75c yard.
Checks, stripes and plain wcaveB In taffeta and niessallno. lllack, white and nil popular colors. $t to $2 yard.
Tho excursion to Frankfort will
leave tho L. & N. station at 5:36 Sat
urday morning, and for tho benefit of
thoso who live some dlstnnco from the
station, a car will leavo the barn and
ono will leavo tho west end loop at
5:10, mooting at the station.
POLICE COURT.
Enuls Travis, colored barber, was
boforo Judgo Whltaker Thursday on
the charge ot unlawfully Bolting In
toxicating liquors In local option ter
ritory. He was fined $100 and ton
days In Jail, Travis says ho will ap
peal tho caso.
COUNTY COURT.
At Thursday's session of Mason
County Court, Judgo W, II, Rico pre
siding, It was ordored that W. W. Robb
bo appointed guardian ot Surah M
Plpor, who qualified as suoh.wlth W
II. Robb as surety on bond. Oath
taken.
Ml. William Hancock U Improving
T7'S leie I
One Hundred Different Suits
That was yesterday's count. Tomorrow's may bo greater. New suits are coming in dally. But it gives ono an Idea of the compre
hensiveness of our SERVICE In tho matter of women's suits nlono.
How can any woman fall to find a suit sho likes at the price sho wants to pay? Prices $15 to $33. Designs aro Individual and now,
styles you aro sure to like.
New York Neckwear
Each collar is now nnd charming. Wo wish wo could dcscrlbo them, but tho variety is so great you will havo to sco tho lino to do
justice to It. Prices grnduato from 25c to $1.
IS52
Our prico this week for buttcrfat,
3G cents, Maysvlllo.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
Onr now Spring wallpapers aro
ready for your Inspection. Como in.
CRANE & SIIAFER.
Superintendent J. V. Hopkins and Southern Life Insuranco Company, aro
Assistant Superintendent Randolph of In Manchester, O., holding an agents'
tho local staff of tho Western and meeting.
t
RUGS FOR EVERY ROOM
You will find here in our exceptionally large assortment, a
rug for every style of room, whether it be a dining room, parlor,
bed room, sitting room, bath room or hall.
We cannot attempt to take any special orders for rugs at the
prices we are selling same in stock. Our prices are low, yes,
very low, and you will find here very few rugs that are marked
higher than last year.
We have a few axminster and velvet rugs that are slightly
imperfect, which you can buy at BARGAIN prices. You would
never know they were imperfect if we would not show you.
Better buy one of those pretty Bath Mats in blue at 98c.
m
:
41
OlIfJEL A JeOOMtAn I PMM
lawly t hr bom In Cincinnati
