7 m
' ' ' ; 'V
J E-v-.:..
1 . v
V
i' ' . : i v- ;.;)- --,( t -X, ...r.
' '! !' ;
''It r. ' ' '
.: . ' "
Li
' hi-
; -i.' A - J i '-i E 1 ' 1 i-.-.-.
Ik t
f 1
V)
t-, ; i .,t 1 J c !
r
v
r. ? i ? i. , n
!..-...' r ' -;
wd ikiS LJ fcuAi.:v t '.-i
n
n
n
::
j;
ritOSl'EIUTY TALK
KvprlMd)' ptohjut In OkUhoma.
Thin ii trim even of tli Itutik roll
bfr. Kvry lime hunk in mltWU
tfrKl huiiilrid dullam and tme
llntt'H thuuMimU ot dollar nre
olttniiifd. KviTy liody mkfn uionujr.
WEATHER REPORT
KOHKCAST Oklahiinm : Thursday
fair, wanner: Friday fair.
Tl'LSA, March H. Tha tpinpfra
tnre: Maxiimiiu 52, ntiniiumu 'Jtl,
NurtlifBHt windK and cluudy.
J0 X)308 l3J01U
VJJ 2LJ J
VOL. XI, NO. 150
TULSA, OKLAHOMA, KIM DAY, M AIM II 10, ID 10
T H N l' A (J E S
I'll riJK FIVE CENTS
:: j:
J
u s Air x32i
Five Troops of Cavalry Cross Border and
Engage Bandits to Avenge American Lives
1.500 BEUH8 ATTACK
SLEEPING CITY, KILLING
MY MEN AND WOMEN
COLUMBUS, N. M., March 9. Francisco Villa, outlawed Mex
ican bandit, raided United States territory today. With five hun
dred men he attacked Columbus, killed at least sixteen Americans
and fired many buildings before he was driven back across the in
ternational border.
At least 250 troopers of the Thirteenth United States cavalry
followed the Villa band into Mexico. Reports late today to Colonel
H. J. Slocum, commanding, stated
fifteen miles south of the border
In this engagement an unnamed
George Williams, adjutant of the Thirteenth cavalry, was wounded.
The small detachment of troopers under Majors Frank Tomp
kins and Elmer Lindsley, fighting dismounted, made a determined
stand against the renewed Villa attack and at last reports were
holding their ground.
The raid on American territory proved costly to the bandit
chieftain. The bodies of eixhteen Mexican bandits, including Pablo
Lopez, second in command, had been gathered and burned before
noon and troopers reported an undetermined number of dead still
lying in the brush. , -
'Led to the attack under the slogan, "death to the Americans,"
Villa's followers fought with desperation. Just before dawn they
crept along ditches skirting the United States cavalry camp and
dashed into the sleeping town, firing heavily.
Applies Torch to Buildings;
Snipers Kill Americans
The first volley brought American troopers into almost instant
action. While a portion of the raiders engaged the cavalrymen
others detailed by the bandit chieftain began applying the torch
and shooting American civilians who ventured from the buildings.
Lights in homes and public buildings immediately became targets
for snipers posted at Villa's direction. Other bandits creeping
dose to American homes enticed a number of civilians into the
open with English spoken invitations. A number of fatalities are
attributed to this ruse.
Stores were looted and oil was poured upon frame structures
and the match applied by still other bandits. The postoffice was
raided and the furniture smashed, but the looters secured only one
snail registered package.
Many civilians barricaded themselves in their homes and fired
at the Mexicans as they darted through the streets. The fighting
in the town ended almost as suddenly as it began. Less than two
hoars after the first shot was heard Villa's buglers sounded the
retreat and the raiders began a disordered flight, followed closely
by American troopers.
Villa's Losses Estimated at
One Hundred Killed
"Three troops of cavalry were posted on the boundary tonight.
A battalion of infantry and a squadron of the Eighth cavalry from
Fort Bliss left El Paso late today to reinforce the troops here. With
these forces Colonel Slocum said he could handle any further attack
Villa in desperation might decide to make."
The casualties of the Thirteenth cavalry in the fighting at Col
umbus were seven killed and five wounded.
Villa's total losses in the day's fighting were estimated in excess
of one hundred killed and twice as many wounded. The American
pursuit into Mexico, which ended when the fleeing bandits made
a stand about 2 o'clock, was reported to have accounted for more
than seventy-five Mexicans killed and wounded.
The American losses on the Mexican side of the border were one
corporal slain, when Villa threw out a heavy guard to engage the
pursuing American troopers
Villa Kales Ity 1'car.
Mrs. Maud Hawk Wrisht, an Amer
ican woman who said she was held
captive by Villa for nine days and
was liberated In the midst of today's
flKhtiinr, declared late today that Villa
announced March 1 his intention to
attack Columbus and proceeded north
under forced marches to carry out hi?
purpose.
Ills men, with scant supplies of
water and meat, suffered severely,
she said, nnd many dropped from
their horses on the march to Hoca
Grande.
Villa, she declared, ruled them by
ear and his officers, with the Hats of
their swords heat the soldiers Into
animation sufficient to reach thnt
point where they tested and prepared
lor the laid,
Tuesday, Mis. WriKht related, Villa
bandits attacked employes of the
I'alomiis r-.nch emtuged In rounding
up cattle, and killed four Americans,
Mrs. V rlKht said her husband. Ed
ward J' hn WriKht. formerly of Hous
ton, Texas, and Frank Hayden, a
youth employed at the La Hooker
suwmll were tuken from the WriKht
ranch March 1 and presumably were
killed. When she was taken pris
oner and forced to ride away with a
detachment of Villa's men under
Colonel Nicholas Servantes, she said
bandit ordered her to give her baby
to a Mexican family.
Story of Capture.
Mrs. VVrlnht was cared for today
at the home of Mrs. Slocum, wife of
Colonel H. Slocum. There she told
the .ory of her capture and experi
ence from the time she was taken
tram th ftnch at Colon ia Hernan
that Villa had made a stand
where spirited fighting ensued.
private was killed and Captain
dez, west of Pearson, where the de
facto Mexican government wus re
ported to have maintained a heavy
garrison for the protection of Ameri
cans. I'p to yesterday, she suld. Villa
wore civilian clothes, a queer little
round straw hat and rode a small
mule, but Just before the fight this
morning1 ho appeared clad in the
trim military uniform he used to wear
at Juarez nnd rode one of three hand
some sorrel chargers which had not
been ridden during the long march.
Mrs. Wright said Villa led learly fif
teen hundred men upon the sleeping
American town at which Acre quar
tered less than three hundred Ameri
can troops.
She said that some of the men de
tailed to guard her during the March
north told her that Villa and three
thousand men nnd six thousand
horses. ,
"It appeared to me as If ha hud
twice that many men and horses," she
added.
ltald Mormon Settlement.
Just before she and her husband
were taken prisoners with the Jtuv
den hoy. Mrs. Wright said, the Villa
men told her they had raided Colonla
Juarez, an American Mormon settle
ment west of Pearson, looted all
stores of flour and provisions and had
killed some of the foreigners, She
naa learned nothing further -in cor
roboration of this story, she said.
"Servantes with 12 men came to
the ranch the night of March 1." Mrs.
Wright said. "They pretended to be
(Continued an Page Two.)
Machine
Guns Fail
to Shoot
Ef. IMSiO, March 9. Kailuro of the
midline suns to work at the
crucial time, when most needed, at the
hcKinnliiK of the fit;ht between the
Villa bandits anil the Thirteenth cav
alry at Columbus early this inorniiiK
Is the cause attributed fur the escape
of the Villa band across the border
and also for the relatively small loss
of life nmoiiK them, according to l'rl
vate Thomas Hurton of the hospital
corps, who, with Private K. M. John
son, brouuhl five wounded soldiers
land' one wounded officer to i:i rao
whs aiiernoon.
According to men the attack bepan
near the edtre of Columbus. There
were no Runs or weapons of any kind
In the hospilal. .Iidmson said he
killed one Vlllu bandit with an ax,
which he threw as the fleeing Mexi
can passed through the hospital shout
ing "vivu Villa."
Johnson also said the body of I'ablo
Lopez, who directed the massacre of
the 18 Americans ut Santa Vsabel two
months ao, was -Identified. He ex
hibited what he said were Lopez' 'icr
Klncs.. l'rivate .lamed Venuer, Troop K.
Who was Hhot IhfAliifh the chest, sidd
he killed four Mexicans nnd was rais
ins his rifle to fire at another when
a bullet laid him low. He said many
of the Kims used by the Villlstas
were 2'1 caliber rifles and others were
of ancient models. The Villa men,
lie said, were without machine guns.
GERMANY DECLARES
WAR ON PORTUGAL
Thirteen Countries Are Now
Engaged in European
Struggle.
SEIZED HER SHIPS
Uef'usal to lielease Vessels
Resulted in Kaiser's
Ultimatum.
Germany has declared war on
Portugal. Thus 13 countries are en
gaged in the International struggle.
The declaration of war was made
by Germany chiefly on account of
he recent seizure of German mer
chantmen Interned in Portuguese
ports and Portugal's refusal to rescind
their action and once more place the
ships tinder the German flag. A
long scries of alleged breaches of neu
trality by the Portuguese government
also were contributing factors.
Fighting between the French and
the Germans northwest and north of
crdun has In no wiso slackened,
Particularly violent have been the at
tacks of the Germans to the north of
erdun around Douauniont, the vil
lage of Vaux and Fort Vaux, but ac
cording to Paris they went for
naught.
Genua as ltcpulseil
The Germans were thrown in solid
formation against trenches of the
French bordering the foot of the ridge
dominating Fort Vaux, which the lat
est German official lepoit sai( the
Germans had captured but the French
drove buck the attacking forces with
"enormous losses."
Northeast of the fort the Germans
essayed an assault against the village
of Vaux. from which they previously
had been driven by the French, but
here also they were repulsed with
heavy losses.
To the west of the Meuse midway
between Hethincourt and the river the
French have continued on the offen
sive In the Corlieaux wood and are
officially reported to havo driven the
Germans from that Important salient.
In the eastern theater the Uusslans
at various points have tuken the of
fensive against Oerman advance po
sitions but Merlin declares they no
where met with success.
The ItiiwdatiH on the Dlack sea
coast continue to press toward Tur
key's principal port, Trebizond and
also are making progress against the
ottoman positions in the Persia sec
tor. The Russian foreign office categor
leally denies that Turkey has made
peace proposals of any kind.
Passes the Senate.
WASHINGTON. March 9. Senator
(Pomerene's bill for a uniform bill ofj
lading passed the senate today.
Burden of the
Mexican Crisis
Weighs on Him
K$ JfPk
A. t r m
BIKER..
XKWTOX l. ItAKKIl
Xcwfoti I), linker, former mayor of
Cleveland, who took tlx- oaih of l
fice as secretary of war yesterday,
succeeding I.imllcy M. Garrison, re.
signed.
President Wil-on signed the palters
giving linker the position anil lie took
I ln oatli of oi l Ice immediately, following-
the hilling of Americans in
Mexico by revolutionary iKimlits led
Ii V Gen. l Yniu Isco Villa.
Without eMrieiiee in this ilep:m
mint ,SeTetnry Maker finds I lie
l ulled Slates lacing one ol the most
acute idrses hi recent years.
KENDALL CITIZENS
NOMINATE TICKET
Spirited Meeting Was Held
in Incorporated Town
Last Night.
The citizens of the incorporated
town of Kendall, during a spirited
meeting held last night, nominated a
complete ticket for town officers for
the coining election. Those nom
inated follow:
Trustees, K. I. liavis. John llui
reughs and .1. A. Wilson; jiihtice !
the peace, i L. Gent; city clerk,
Clarence Hale; city treasurer, C. V.
YoUng; city marshal, W. N. Sliue.
MANY POSITIONS
ARE FILLED HERE
Tulsa Office of the Slate Free
ploymeiit Iliircau Is Mill
Leading.
I m-
Dave Kasterly's Tulsa branch of the
state free employment hureau led ull
i other
offices of Oklahoma last
month, which was nothing out of the
ordinary, inasmuch as the local fig
ures have eclipsed those of the Ok
lahoma City, F.nid and Muskogee of
tices for several months.
During the 29 days there were 20G
applications fur help at the office and
1G6 of these positions wero satisfac
torily filled, something which Is con
sidered remarkable.
Quits Auditor's OIIK o.
8pil to The World.
OKLAHOMA CITY, March .--Hen
H. lavls, who has been assistant state
auditor slnoo L. It. Howard was
elected state auditor, resigned today
to enter private business here. Walter
Witt, a clerk In the office, was made
assistant.
Turks Want Peace.
LONDON, March 9. (6 p. m.)
The foreign office has received no
official advices that Turkey is seek
ing peace. However, the impression
prevails from what Is known of con
ditions in Turkey that there Is a
strong probability of an early move In
that direction.
More Men
on Border
to Battle
Di ilGLAR. Ariz., March H. With
I'nitcd States troopers stationed
along the border east of here en
trenched for the purpose of repelling
a possible night attack by Mexican
bandits ami other infantrymen en
training to move eastward for guard
dntv along the New Mexican border,
the situation here assumed a warlike
aspect late today.
i ne battalion of the Klcvculh
I'nitcd States infantry departed late
today on a special train ell route to
llacbita, N. M., to assume border
guard duty. This movement was for
the purpose of leaving I lie American
cavalry detachment at that place free
to net as a mobile field force in case
of an attack from the Mexican side
of the international boundary.
Two companies of the Sixth Infan
try lert late III the day for San Ber
nardino, elghten miles east of here.
Travel In Automobiles.
The infantry contingent remaining
at Douglas was temporarily attached
to tho Second cavalry brigade under
command of Colonel George A. Dodd,
with headquarters here. I'elegrains
were sent to Washington, it was un
derstood, urging tli.it Colonel Jiodd
be placed ill command of an expedi
tionary force, should one be sent from
from here Into Mexico in pursuit of
the .Mexican bandits. He is familiar
with the section the forces supposed
to lie Villa troops are traversing, it
was stated, because of his participa
tion in the campaign against the
Apache Indians.
A volunteer automobile company
was formed by citizens here today and
a large number of machines were
placed at the disposal of army offi
cers for use In transporting soldiers
to any point if (hey were desired.
BANK CLEARINGS
ARE STILL HIGH
I or
I'mirth Conseciillve Week Tulsa
Clearings House Figures
i:xcel.
Clearings of the Tulsa Clearing
House association during I lie week
ended yesterday totalled $1), 370,8(19.
whic h was an increase of 171.3 per
cent over a corresponding period last
year, it wus the fourth consecutive
week that the clearings of Tulsa
banks have eclipsed those of all oth
er cities of the I'nitcd States, anil
Indications now are that the record
will be greatly extended.
The figures are conclusive evidence
of the considerable business which
daily is being transacted in Tulsa, and
are bound to attract attention 111 fi
nancial and Industrial circles through
out the country.
i:pki:si:tativi: gof.s iiomi:.
Ilocowrs After Several Weeks' Illness
From SmalliMix.
SnM'inl to Til World.
OKLAHOMA CITY, March 9. -ft.
G. Itollins, of Madill, representative
Marshall county In Hie lower house
of the legislature, was released today
from the hospital, and immediately
left for his Ii i,i Itcpresentatlve
Itollins was taken to the hospital suf
fering with smallpox about a week
before the special session of the leg
islature adjourned. When the senate
and house locked on the emergency
on the registration bill it was thought
for a time that members would try
to bring Representative Itollins to the
assembly room on a col so that he
could vote, but this was finally not
necessary.
IIF.AK M.WOAMIS MAIM'll 1(1.
Action Against Kansas Ctilllics Com
mission Climes I'p Smiii.
TOPKKA, Kan., March 9. An or
der by the state supreme court today
set Match 1 i as the date for hearing
the mandamus suit against (he Kan
sas public utilities commission to
compel that body to permit the Is
suance of $70,000,0110 of securities by
the Kansas City, Mexico & Orient
railroad. The securities are to be Is
sued, according to the road's plan for
Its refinancing and new construction,
to include an extension from Wichita,
Kan., to Kansas City, Mo.
The utilities commission has refused
to sanction the issue on a finding that
such capitalization would ho too high
for tho road to pay dividends.
Much Wheat Is Held.
WASHINGTON. March 9. The
quantity of wheat held in interior mills
and elevator In tho I'nitcd States on
March I was nearly twice that h?ld
a year ago, according to a report to
day by (ho bureau of crop estimates.
The totul Is climated at 1GI.911.0OO
bushels. Tho figures do not Include
Vlsllilo stocks at Points of larea an.
1 cumulation..
COL. SLOCUM AND MEN
ENGAGED ItJ BIG BATTLE
15 MILES IN THE INTERIOR
BULLETIN
BISBEE, Ariz,, March 9. The Tenth United States cav
airy stationed at Fort Huachuca, Ariz., ten miles west of here,
has been ordered to Douglas, Ariz., to reinforce the Mexican
border patrol, it was stated tonight.
The cavalrymen will leave here tonight on a special train.
WASHINGTON, March 9. Washington stands squarely behind
Colonel Slocum in sending his cavalrymen into Mexico in pursuit of
Francisco Villa and his band of outlaws who raided Columbus,
N. M., today murdering American soldiers and citizens and firing
the town.
Secretary Lansing tonight informed the de facto government
of Mexico through Elisco Arredondo, its ambassador-designate here,
that he trusted no objection would be made to the action of the
American troops, they having followed what is known in military
circles as a "hot trail." No orders have been issued for the return
of the soldiers and it is not probable any will be issued for the
present.
Shocked indignation occasioned by news of Villa's outrage was
quickly succeeded by undisguised satisfaction in official and con
gressional circles over the knowledge that after three years of
patient forbearance United States troops actually were on Mexican
soil to avenge the death of their comrades and bring to justice the
outlaws whose depredations have terrorized Americans on both
sides of the border.
Engaged in Battle With a
Much Larger Force
Reports that the American troopers were in action tonight prob
ably fifteen miles south of the border against a much larger force
of bandits were heard with anxious interest in official circles. Five
troops of cavalry crossed the border early in the day. At a late
hour tonight it was not known officially just where they were, or
just what account they had given of themselves.
While no formal word of the policy of the administration was
given out it was reliably stated that the army would be given free
rein to catch the bandits if possible. It was not considered in ad
ministration circles that Colonel Slocum 's act in any sense consti
tuted an invasion of Mexico, a policy which the administration has
opposed in the past and will continue to oppose.
The state department at first had planned to ask permission of
the Carranza government to send troops across the border in pur
suit of the outlaw band. Then came official word that the cavalry
already had crossed. Later Mr. Arredondo called upon Secretary
Lansing, expressed regret for the Villa raid, and was informed of
the attitude of the United States. Mr. Arredondo said he would
communicate with General Carranza immediately.
Prepared to Meet Any
Objections by Carranza
On expressing the hope that the Carranza government would not
object to the crossing of the troops the state department was said
to fully realize that there might be objections and it was fully pre
pared to meet them should they arise. Persons who talked to Mr.
Arredondo, however, gathered the impression that he at least seems
to believe the Carranza government might not object, it being un
derstood that the American troops were simply hunting down
bandits whose depredations have long been a soiirce of trouble not
only to the United States but to the de facto go'vernment.
Formally there is no authority for the presence of the American
troops in Mexico. In fact the patrols along the border have from
the beginning of disorders there been under orders not to cross
under any consideration. If the provocation had not been so great
the officers responsible for the action today would face court
martial. Suggestions that Colonel Slocum, in command at Colum
bus, might be court-martialed, however, were scouted by some of
ficials, while at the war department itself the subject was not dis
cussed. No Order Issued to Recall
Colonel Slocum
Newton D. Baker, who became secretary of war today, con
ferred over the situation with President Wilson tonight. Three
hours later Mr. Baker said no orders had been sent for the recall of
the American soldiers.
Major-General Scott, chief of staff, telegraphed General Funston
at Fort Sam Houston, in command of the border forces for all de
tails available. He said the policy of the government would not be
outlined until General Funston 's reply had been received.
S.NT Fi; IS MAKING MOXFY I AM I :itl( A WINS Mltl-X CASK
Atlornc) General Says Present lta(cs
Arc Compensatory.
SppciHl t-o The World.
OKLAHOMA CITY, March 9. Attorney-General
Freellng today filed
his answer In the federal court as to
the Atchison. Topcka Santa Fe and
the Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe In
the 2 cent faro and freight rate cases.
The freight rates In question were es
tablished by the corporation commis
sion, and It is alleged In the attorney
general's answer that no application
had been tnnde by the railroad com
pany for a modification of tho rates,
as is provided. It Is the contention
of the attorney-general that both the
passenger and freight rate are com
pensatory, and that t lie railroads
have reaped enormous profits from
the traffic In Oklahoma.
Ilrltish Publication Admits Llttelliitf
of llclroit Citizen.
LONDON, March 9. An unusual
sensation was caused in the court of
the king's bench today by the ap
pearance of Viscount French, the
former commander-in-chief of the
Hrltish army in I'Yance, as a wltnesa
In the libel action brought by George
Gordon Moore of letroit, ' against
llultnn and company, publishers of
the Manchester Kvening Chronicle.
The libel complained of consisted
of an article accusing Mr. Moore of
betraying Hrltish military secrets to,
Count von Hcrnstorff which he had
learned tiirough his Intimacy with
Lord French. After evidence had been
given on behalf of Mr. Moore tho de
fendants Uithilrew nit chiinrnM nmt
apologized. ""
