I:
H Today's Metal Prices I Tlfv A ift iv QL4 V mY VX 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
1 jtztes'ti, U 1 1 P U 7 11 U K I l 2JLcL I LU cLL IJ JL?M. I
ll B611V '?,W.90awd; 8l0elte?!,Vnort CLIF V CL L f 7" V V V"? W'V 'V WEATHER-Utah: Tonight and H
SI'. quoted; copper, steady; electro ytlo. r M V S ' , . , fcl . .. , , ' H
t nearby $28.00$28.50; June and later C Z, " , Saturday Fair; Not Much Change In H
I I ,' S27.2527.50. ,. - Temperature. H
jj I j L HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. ' M
HI Forty-slxth Year-No. 60. Price: Mvc Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, MARCH 10, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah. fl
U1 , . . . H
1 1 American Troops Ordered to Enter I
I Mexico in Pursuit of Villa Bandits I
I t, .. . . H
1 i ' " Mml
1 1 1 President Wilson and Cabinet unanimously agree Villa and his followers must be taken, dead or alive. Five thousand soldiers immediately available to invade Mexico
1 1 and run down the bandits who raided Columbus, New Mexico. Gen. Funston, who captured Aguinaldo, to be in supreme command of troops. Villa will be followed I
I wherever he may go. I
j PRESIDENT WILSON DETERMINED TO
STOP BANDIT FORAYS AT BORDER
; De Facto President Carranza Notified of Action of Govern
ment and That U. S. Has No Intention of Violating
Sovereignty of Mexico Both Houses of Congress
Approve President's Course No Orders Yet
j ) Sent to Navy More Troops to Be
Sent to Border.
'
San Antonio, Texas, March 1 0. Major-General Funston
will personally command the expedition which 'will invade
Mexico and capture Villa, unless the war department orders
otherwise.
; General Funston is at Fort Sam Houston here awaiting
explicit instructions. 'A preliminary concentration of border
l troops already is under way.
j ' Washington, March 1 0. 7-Late today an expression of re
gret from General Carranza for the Columbus massacre was
;; received by the state department. No offer of co-operation
with American troops for hunting down the Villa bandits was
made but if one does come, it was said that it hardly could be
i refused.
I
, Washington, March 10. The Mexican embassy got a
1 telegram from General Carranza late today saying that 5000
7 troops from various garrisons to the south had been ordered
' ! to move upon the Villa bands. No mention, was made of the
: ; proposal of the United States to send forces.
j ; Mexico City, March 1 0. General Carranza does not care
I;' to make a statement in regard to the situation resulting from
1 1 the raid on Columbus, N. M. A rigid censorship has been
1 5 : imposed. Newspapers are printing nothing of the raid and the
public has not been advised of it.
M I Washington, March 10. President I
M I Wilson today ordered American troops i
tl I over the Moxican border to capture or
fijf kill the Villa bandits who yesterday :
fa raided Columbus, N. M.
ft Major-General Scott, chief or staff
l of the army, announced that the ex-
Mf pedltlon -would consist of not less than
III five thousand men, all of which are
Br available on the border under Major-
lli General Funston.
JVtt As Secretary Lansing left the cabi
Mjk net meeting he indicated further re
iki presentations, probably giving notice
MM of the decision would be sent to the
Ml Carranza government Immediately.
m In Its present stage the president's
Ml order does not mean armed intorven
Mi tlon in Mexico. It provides for a puni
Jil, tlve expedition to deal with lawless
Mk, forces over which the Carranza gov
Jt: ernment has no control.
II White House Statement.
MM The following statement was issued
M ' at the White House; '
M ' "An adequate force will be sent at
M I once in pursuit of Villa with the single
M b- object of capturing him. aud putting a
M $ stop to his forays.
2 "This can be done, and will be dono.
3 .in entirely friendly aid of the constl
I ;i tuted authorities in Mexico and with
' scrupulous respect for the sovereignty
m I of that republic."
-gl I It was declared that -the United
. States will not consider the punitive
1 expedition an invasion of Mexico and
will continue to deal with the Car
ranza government. The American
am - government la still opposed to armed
Intervention in Mexico, but has decid
gl f ed that the peace of both Mexico and
gt '1 the United Statos Is imperiled by the
e 1 continued activities of Francisco Villa,
xM Cabinet Is Unanimous.
? The cabinet was unanimous in de
mi i elding that Villa must bo caught.
dS '! It was said at the White House that
3m the American government wants Villa,
M i dead or alive, and that no steps will
-s be neglected to carry out that object.
M It was said tho pursuit of Villa would
be undertaken in a comprehensive
H ablnet members and army officials
51 ' regarded the decision to go after Villa
m with troops with undisguised SRtlafac-
tion. A general feeling of relief that
j the administraUon had finally decided
ii to take the step was apparent
President Is Determined.
Q i The president himself is represent-
I ed as being as determined to ousi
J Villa as ho was to oust Victoriano
? Tho announcement of the intention
'1 of the president to send troops into
f Mexico was accompanied by scenes
not equalled by thoso at the White
I House since tho determination to
' send tho Atlantic fleet to Vera Cruz,
I in 1914.
Hi Officials hoped General Carranza
Wm), would realize the spirit in which the
Hb American troops were being sent aft-
B er Villa.
H' Carranza to Be Notified.
IH : Carranza will bo notified immedl-
m "
ately that the United States has no
intention of taking any Mexican terri
tory whatever, and respects fully the
sovereignty of that nation,
American officials realize that Car
ranza may have difficulty in consent
ing to the presence of American sol
diers on Moxlcan soil because of popu
lar feeling in his country.
At tho cabinet meeting, the discus
sion of the situation was brief and
to the point. The cabinet unanimous
ly agreed that tho only thing to do
was to send troops.
Baker Told to Issue Orders.
President Wilson took the samo
position and at once Instructed Sec
retary Baker to Issue tho necessary
orders. He also instructed Secretary
Lansing to inform General Carranza
of the attitude of the American gov
ernment. Both of Houses Notified.
Leaders of both houses of congress
1 were Immediately notified from tho
White House of the president's action.
They approved his course.
Before deciding finally to send the
troops aftor Villa, the president con
ferred over the telephone with Chair
man Stone of the senate foreign rela
tions conimlttco, who told him he be
lieved tho sentiment of congress
would solidly support his action
President to Go Before Congress.
It was considered possible that with
in a few days President WilBon might
go before congress to recite tho series
of acts by Villa which led up to the
ordering of troops to effect his cap
ture. Tho president desires to movo
with the entire co-operation of (Con
gress. No orders had been issued to the
navy this afternoon, but it was con
sidered probable that some of the At
lantic 'fleet might be placed in Mexi
can waters to bo near if Americans In
coast towns wore endangered by anti
American demonstrations. The gov
ernment is reluctant to mako any
naval demonstration that might be
construed as against General Car
ranza. i General Scott said today that the
. necessity of providing even a stronger
force for tho border than it now has,
; while the American troops are oper
i atlng In Mexico, would necossltate
uslng some troops not now thero for
the punitive expedition. They prob
- ably will be ordered from other poBtfl.
c No plans have been made so far as is
) known for use of the national guard.
No move will be mado by the navy
i for the present. Practically tho ,en-
tiro Atlantic fleet, howevor, Is within
s two days' sail of the Mexican coast
3 and should Carranza's forces be un
3 able to protect Americans or other
i foreign subjects in caB of riots the
navy will bo presBOd into service im
x mediately. This was stated authori-
2 datively today at tho navy department.
Troops All Along Road.
Columbus, N. M.t March 10. Train
I- No. 8, EL Paso Southwestern, east-
bound, reached here at 9 a. m. with
crew and most of the passengers
heavily armed. Tho train crewj re
ported all quiet at Hachlta and Vlc
torlp where American cavalry and In
fantry are posted.
Troops are scattered all along the
road from Hachlta to Columbus.
Authorities Favor Action.
Columbus, N. M.f March 10. Civil
and military authorities along the bor
der here today gave unanimous ex
pression in favor of immediate pur
suit of Villa by American troops when
the contents of Villa's correspondence
became known.
This sentiment was expressed prior
to the announcement that American
troops had been ordered to enter Mex
ico in pursuit of Villa.
Carranza authorities, according to
officials from Juarez, would not ob
jeet to the entry of American troops
Into Mexico to attack Villa. In fact
messages have been received here
stating that Carranza cavalry had left
Guzman to attack the bandit chief In
the rear with the expectation that
American troops, whom thoy supposed
t3 have already crossed the border,
would attack him.
Baker Calls Staff.
Washington, March 10. This after
noon Secretary Baker called tho gen
eral staff in session to perfect plans
for the expedition. General Funston
was asked for any recommendations.
It was indicated that movements
would be mado from several points on
the border at the same time.
uu
FRESH AGITATION
STIRS CONGRESS
Senators Fall and McCumber
Offer Resolutions Proposing
Armed Action by United
States.
STONE COUNSELS SENATE
During Speech Making and
Discussion President's Ac
tion Is Telephoned
Democrats and Repub
licans Satisfied.
Washington, March 10. While the
president and tho cabinet were decid
ing to send tho troops over the bord
er, the agitation had broken out afresh
In congress.
Senator McCumber and Senator Fall
both Republicans, introduced resolu
tions proposing armed action In dif
ferent ways. Both resolutions wore
referred to tho foreign relations com
mittee while Chairman Stono counsel
ed his colleagues to let the executive
departments of the government han
dle the situation.
Senate Is Notified.
While the senate was talking and
some desultory speeches wero being
made in tho house, the president In
structed that congress be notified
quickly by telophone from tho White
House and the word passed around.
It spread quickly but both house and
senate received it as cooly as ari an
nouncement of the passage of a rou
tine bill.
The Democrats generally expressed
the opinion that tho president's action
was wholly justified and the Republi
cans who have been urging action,
expressed satisfaction that It had
been taken. Thero was no sign of
dissension.
When tho Atlantic fleet went to
Vera Cruz In 1914, Congress, at the
president's request passed a resolu
tion authorizing him to use the armed
forces of tho United States, such ac
tion is considered unnecessary in the
situation at this stage.
Tho administration holds that the
president Is fully vested with author
ity to repel invasion.
Applause Greets News.
Applause greotcd a statemont In the
house that troops bo sent across the
bordor.
"Tho government should tako this
matter in hand at once" said Repre
sentative Smith-of Texas, "send troops
after the assassins and pursue them
until they are captured. They should
bo brought back alive or dead. If
they are captured allvo they should
bo brought to Columbus and hanged.
I would put no limit on tho number
of miles our troops might have to go
into Mexico to do this. To Carranza
I would say that we are only doing
our duty.
Stone Blocks Resolutions.
Senator Ashurst, Democrat of Arl-
zona, sought immediate consideration
of the McCumber resolution, but it
. was blocked on objection by Senator
Stone. Mr. Ashurst declared that from
his own Information of conditions on
i the border of his state he knew that
, troubles In Mexico instead of nearing
ANTI-PREPAREDNESS
LEADER IN CONGRESS
John R. Connelly.
Congressman John R. Connelly or
Kansas, recognized as one of the
ablest foes of preparedness in the
lower house, is the author of a plan
of strategy for use in invasion from
either coast. The population of the
Atlantic seaboard is to retire behind
tho Alleghanicsj' the population of
the Pacific coast is to retire east ofv
the Sierras, and thenceforth dwell in
peace, prosperity, and security, un
vexed by any foe.
an end were only beginning.
"It is the duty of the senate," he
said, 'to vote authority to send troops
after those redhanded cut throats,
bring them back to Columbus where
they mado a funeral pyre out of
American citizens and shoot them on
the spot. That is, I would give them
grapeshot instead of grapejulco."
At the cabinet meeting the possi
bility was considered that some Car
ranza followers would join Villa on tho
assumption that the United States
was invading Mexico, but the presi
dent felt convinced that Carranza and
the Moxlcan people could bo made to
understand that the United States had
no Idea of Impairing the sovereignty
of their country.
Secretary Baker Favors Pursuit.
Secretary Baker, It is said, was one
of tho most enthusiastic in favor of
pursuing Villa.
Some officials suggested offering a
reward for Villa's capture, but it was
decided at once that the United StateB
had better face the situation squarely
and send troops to catch him.
Search May Be Long.
The administration realizes that the
search for Villa may be long and dif
ficult. Major-General Funston, how
ever, who probably will direct the ex
pedition, if he does not actually lead
It, estahliBhed himself as a successful
catcher of outlaws in tho Philippines
when he took Aguinaldo single hand
ed. Thero Is little expectation that Villa
and his bandits will fight In the open.
Guerrilla warfare Is almost certain to
result, but the American soldiers will
have orders to follow Villa no mattor
where ho goes.
Representative Hornandes of New
Mexico, evoked enthusiasm in the
house by urging that Carranza either
be forced to restore normal condi
tions, or United States troops be sent
into the country.
Patience No Longer Virtue.
"In tho light of this most recent out
rage, patience has ceased to be a vir
tue with us," he shouted. "If the Car
ranza regime is uuable to restore
peace, this country should take action
at once. Tho people of New Mexico
havo a good militia and they doubt
less would affiliate with the federal
authorities In capturing the assassins.
"We assume that Villa's object is
to force intervention In Mexico, but,
whatever his object is, wo cannot
longer stand for such raids as the
ono just committed."
Majority Leader Kltchln who heard
whllo Representative Harnandez was
speaking that the cabinet had decided
to send troops Into Mexico, said the
president would probably ask for some
congressional action.
The president Is reported as very
regretful over the necessity of send
ing troops Into Mexico.
Representative Miller, Republican
of Minnesota, told tho house ho ques
tioned whether tho Villa raiders could
simply be regarded as marauders and
whether the attack on Columbus did
not assume proportions of almost a
national Incursion.
"Is it not equal indignity to the
United States whetho there were
three hundred or three thousand of
tho marauding savage Indians?" inter
jected Representative Slaydcn of Tex
as. "Tho conditions are such," he said,
"that it is impossible to get definite
Information as to the number of ban
dits that same to Columbus. Condi
tions in Mexico are very peculiar.
Loyalty fluctuates. It goes from ono
side to the other, and whether thoy be
Carranza thieves and murderers or
Villa thieves and murderers make no
difference.
"Most of those people there dislike
the people of the United States. These
Ignorant Indians cheerfully cut each
other's throats. On occasions they
will stop that work to indulge in the
more delectable pastime of cutting
American throats and It does not
make a particle of difference whose
uniform they wear."
VILLA'S PAPERS
REVEAL PLANS
Makes Agreement With Mexi
can Residents to Oust Ameri
cans and Confiscate Their
Property.
CITIZENS FURNISH ARMS
Slocum With .840 Men Pre
pared pared to Meet Any
Further Advances by
Gen. Villa.
Columbus, N. M., March 10. Papers
found on the battlefield opposite here
yesterday revealed that Francisco Vil
la decided last October to wage war
fare against Americans. This step, ac
cording to Villa's personal documents,
was taken Immediately following rec
ognition by the United States of tho
Carranza de facto government and
began with the institution of Villa's
campaign In Sonora, which ended dis
astrously at Agua Prieta, on Novem
ber 20. Among the papers found was
what purported to be an agreement
between Villa and Mexican residents
of Colonla Morelos. near El TIgre, So
nora, pledging mutual support In an
effort to oust Mormons and other
Americans, confiscate their property
and operate their mines and farms.
The citizens, according to the al
leged agreement, promised to take up
arms with Villa to gain this end. Vil
la was to furnish the Mexicans ot
the district with livestock, to bo de
livered by April, 1916, "after he had
overcomo Carranza and established
himself as supreme chief In Mexico.'
Hostage Money Receipt.
Another of the papers acknowl
edged receipt of $25,000 In gold from
tho Consolidated Cannnea Copper
company at Naco, Sonora, shortly aft
er Villa's retreat from Agua Prieta.
The receipt credited the money to ex
port duties on copper ores from Can
anea, but a notation showed that the
money really was paid for the lives of
three Americans held as prisoners and
who all the time wero reported to
havo been marked for execution.
The troopers under Majors Tomp
kins pyid Lludsley that pursued Villa
into 'lexico returned Into yesterday
and aided in patrollug the bordor dur
ing the night.
840 Men With Slocum.
With tho first battalion of tho Twen
tieth infantry, stationed at Victoria
early today, Colonel Slocum has
about 840 men under his command,
prepared to meet any further ad
vances by Villa on American soil.
"It he" comes again, we will give
him a worse whipping than we gave
him yesterday," said Colonel Slocum.
Early today no signs of Villa's re
turn from the hills was apparent.
Armed civilians kept guard at the
school house where their wives and
daughters spent the night. The Mox
lcan quarter was closely guarded by
patrols. The town was quiet and
dark except for the glowing embers
of tho ruins of the hotel.
The commanding officer of the
Seventh cavalry, patrollng tho border
west of here, near Gibson's ranch,
was notified to watch for any attempt
by Mexicans to cross the border at
points leading to Doming, N. M., a
town about forty mlleB north of the
international line.
An invitation to General Emlliano
Zapata to march north and join In an
attack on the United States was sent
by Francisco Villa in January, ac
cording to a copy of a letter found
nmong Villa's captured papers. The
letter was dated San Geronlmo, Chi
huahua, January 6, 1916.
"I shall not expend another shell
on brother Mexicans" Villa wrote In
the letter, "but will prepare and or
ganize to attack the Americans on
their own soil and let them know that
Mexico is a land of the freo and the
tomb of thornlcss crowns and trait
ors." Joint Movement Urged.
Villa proposed that the joint move
ment with Zapata against the United
(Continued on Page 7.)
I
VIOLENT BOMBARDMENT CONTINUES I
ON BOTH SIDES OE MEUSE RIVER I
No Change in Verdun Situation Both French and Germans 1H
Keeping Up Desperate Artillery Fighting in Argonne IH
District and Verdun Region French Batteries De- H
aiolish German Trenches in Alsace Both H
Sides Suffer Heavy Losses Fighting. H
Lisbon, Portugal, March 5, Via Paris, 10:40 p.' m., (de- IH
layed in transmission). An official decree was placarded to- H
night summoning all naval reserves to join their ships im- IH
mediately. H
Paris, March 10, via London, 10:07
a. m. Thero was no change in the sit
uation before Verdun either east or
west of tho Mouse, according to a
semi-official announcement made here
this afternoon.
The announcement adds that the
violent bombardment continues on
both sides of the Meuse but there has
been no infantry attacks by the Ger
mans. Violent Bombardment Continues.
The text of tho announcement given
out by the French war office this af
ternoon reads:
"In the Argonne district our artil
lery has bombarded certain convoys
of the enemy moving along the road
from Montfaucon to Avoncourt.
"There has been no change in the
situation west or east of the river
Meuse. The night passed without the
enemy making any infantry attack
against our positions. The bombard
ment, however, has continued, both
sides taking part, along our front. It
has been violent on the left and right
banks of the river Meuse and inter
mittent in the Woevre district
Batteries Demolish Trenches.
"In Alsace our batteries have de
molished the Gorman trenches at Hill
No. 425, which Is east of Thann.
"The night passed quietly on the
remainder of the front,
"During the day of March 8, French
airmen delivered a number of attacks
most of them over tho lines of tho
enemy. During one of these engage
ments at Erlennes fifteen German air
men were forced to flee. Later ten of
them wero seen to bo descending ver
tically In the direction of their own
lines. ' , ,
"In addition to this, Information
has been received that two German
aviators, one in a Folker machine,
had been overcome in the Champagno
district and three others vanquished
In the region of Verdun. Tho ma
chines of these five aviators came to
tho ground within the German lines.
Germans Capture Wood.
Berlin, March 10, via London, 4:-0
p m Capture of the Ablain wood
was announced today by German
army headquarters. It was stated
that the French had regained a foot
hold In the fort of Vaux.
The statement follows:
"On the eastern bank of the Meuse,
during the clearing of Corbeaux wood,
and enemy trenches at Bethincourt.
wo took six officers, 681 men and 11
cannon.
Abiain Wood Captured.
"Ablain wood and the ridge west of
Douaumont were taken from the en
emy after stubborn fighting. In tho
Woevre plain we also pushed forward
our line through the wooded sector
southeast of Damloup.
"The French delivered strong coun
ter attacks against our new front east
and south of Vaux and in the neigh
borhood of the fort. The French sue
ceeded in again obtaining a firm foot
ing in the armored fort Itself Other
wise their attacks wore repulsed with
heavv losses.
"Our battle aviators shot down two
British aeroplanes; namely, one mono
piano near Wytschaote; south of
Ypres, and ono biplane northeast of
La Basse. The occupant of the first
aeroplane was dead." .
Review of War Situation.
A momentary let up in the desper
ate infantry fighting around Verdun
is reported today from Paris The
Germans havo not again attacked on
either bank of tho Meuse, it is an
nounced, but violent bombardment of
the defenses continues.
An official statement from Pans
today, emphatically contradicts tho
Georman claim to the capture of the
fort and village of Vaux.
Similarly Paris declares tho greater
part of Corbeaux wood remains in
French handB, despite the German in
timation to the contrary.
Russians and Germans Active.
There are signs of renewed activity
on tho eastern front as tho spring
approaches. Tho Russians and Ger
mans havo been feeling out each oth
er's lines at various points.
Reports from Salonlkl say it is bo-.
lleved the allied forces there are pre- fmm
paring to launch a great offensive H
movement about May first ,'H
The British admiralty admits the sH
loss of the torpedo boat destroyer Co- H
quette and tho torpedo boat No. 11 PH
with forty-five casualties. H
Sinking of the French line steamer H
Loulsalne of 5,109 tons presumably by B H
a submarine operating off the French 111
coast, is announced from Paris. No H
lives were lost f H
m
Holy War Proclaimed.
Berlin, March 10, Wireless to Say- .
vllle. "Bagdad papers state that the iH
Emir Ibnalrashio of Resht, Persia, has f!H
proclaimed a hoi' war- in- all cities 7 JjH
and villages of his territory," tho H
Overseas News Agency announces to- fH
H
Resht is 14 miles southeast of En- MW
geli on the Caspian sea. Mu
00 fH
DEEP CONCERN IS 1
FELT IN LISBON I
Lisbon, Portugal, March 9, via Paris, fH
March 10, 10:46 a. m. Herr Rosen, M
the German minister, late this after- H
nooD, presented personally to the for- H
eigu minister the ultimatum of the
German government. The public is H
deeply concerned because this action
Is supposed to mean war. IH
In view of the naval measures tak- H
en by the government, the Germans JM
still remaining here are arranging to H
depart tonight. A special train is held H
In waiting for German diplomatic and H
consular officials. H
Berlin dispatches of yesterday said JH
Germany declared war on Portugal 011 IH
Wednesday afternoon. Apparently jH
this was unknown in Lisbon yesterday jMm
which may be due to delay in trans ,H
mission of official messages between Mm
Bctlin and Lisbon. H
00 Jl
CARRANZATROOPS I
ALTER BANDITS I
5oldiers Carry Black and White fl
Flags to Notify Americans M
of Their Identity. M
iH
Columbus, N. M., March 10. The H
Carranza troops in pursuit of bandits, H
It was stated, carried a black and H
white flag to notify tho American UM
troops of their identity. General H
Cavlera, commanding at Juarez, has H
tho bandits escape to the eastward H
blocked and official information from H
Agua Prieta was to tho effect that fH
Military Governor P. Ellas Calles has MM
disposed troops in tho last twenty- 'MM
four hours to cut Villa off from enter- jH
Ing Sonora. General Guiterrez was re- lumm
ported watching tho south. H
Advices today from tho west stated "H
that tho entire Seventh cavalry, under jjH
Colonel Erwln, had left Hachlta for jjBH
Culbertson's ranch on the border. 'Wm
A troop of cavalry was reported il
en route from Douglas, Ariz., to ijM
Hachlta. One troop" of the Seventh UfoM
cavalry was sent to Alamo Hueco, ten HH
mllec south of Hachlta. There were JmuM
American cavalrymen also at Dog mWM
Springs, guarding all routes across H
the boundary in that section of New BH
Mexico. HH
U. S. Troops Moving.
Other United States troops were H
dispersed today as follows: gH
First battalion, Twentieth infantrj, W
at Victoria, 32 miles east; Troop G, H
Thirteenth cavalry, at the border gate H
three miles south of Columbus S
troops, Thirteenth cavalry In camp JH
with riiachine gun platoon at Colum !
bus Heavy patrols wero stationed all !
along railroad lino rom Hachlta to IB
Columbus. fl
