I.
Forpcast Saturday ia i r.
Temperature nt 7 n. ni., Hfi; at 1 p. m., 64.
THE OKLAHOMA TIMES
HOME
EDITION
ASSOCIATED PRESS
LEASED WIRE REPORT
(Published by The Oklahoma Publishing Co.)
VOL XXVII. NO. 28:5.
OKLAHOMA CITY. FRIDAY, MARCH 10, liUO.
pntee one cbnt
ON TRAIN, FIVE CENT
'l' IP Hi
twin
iiico
ILVillLo A u2J. J vy
President Orders Troops to Capture or Kill Villa Bandits and End
Forever Border Forays; Sen. Fall Would Recruit 500,000
Volunteers; Carranza Expected to Cooperate With U. S.
.- " . .
WASHINGTON, March 10. President Wilson has ordered American troops over the Mexican border
to capture or kill the Villa bandits who Thursday raided Columbus, N. M.
In its present stage the president's order does not mean armed intervention in Mexico. It provides for
a punitive expedition to deal with the lawless forces over which the Carranza government has no control.
It was said at the White House that the American government wants Villa dead or alive and that no
steps will be neglected to carry out that object. '
Senator Fall today introduced his resolution providing for the recruiting of 500,000 volunteers.
WASHINGTON, March 10. The following statement was issued at the White House:
"An adequate force will be sent at once in pursuit of Villa with the single object of capturing him and putting a stop to his forays.
This can be done and will be done in entirely friendly aid of the constituted authorities in Mexico and with scrupulous respect for the
sovereignty of that republic."
Major General Scott, chief of staff of the army, announced that the expedition would consist of not less than 5,000 men, all of which
are available on the border under Major General Funston.
PARIS FLATLY
DENIES FALL
OF FORT VAUX
Infantry Attacks All Along j
French Border Suspended
for Time Being.
BUT VIOLENT ARTILLERY !
BOMBARDMENT KEEPS UP,
On Both Banks of the Mcuse
Fighting Is Reported
Most Severe.
PARIS. Mnn h in.-An official not ha
been Issued i nt- Km i nll .linMitg the
atRtciiiciit insde lit llie lierniBii nf:.. ml
eonimuiili Hlmn of Match '.) lint " Hinge
nil armored f' i! "f Vims ": enptured
in the lillfht ail. I, hv I'""" le
ft. te rr K llM'-lit H iir.ili-i tin- lea. let -
hip llueiskt ! nil r ' This Rvt
Imu, the n-ilc mi", l-. In i-iett wt
fa lac.
"It hs linen icui.itkcd sai" III"
Ki on-li notr, That nine the tnliute ol
the Verdun offcnsltr. tic m m offlclnl
-i i mm u n lia t Ion j nie (nil nl lui'c slnt'
mcnt. Th notr rienle other ki n I tiii-nt inn
tnlnctl In recent liertnnn off l In I nun
niunlcntlmiR. Thar w mi rhngc In Ihr lliinll"n
at Verdun either est or wot according
to Ih drml-iiffli 'nl elntrnifnt until pnb
llr here today.
The announcement ndd tint llir vln
lent bnmhRitlment i-oriiinnea nn luth
hank nf I h Mnirtr Imt that thru, ha
b"n tin inlnntn rittneka hy ihn tier
man. PAItIS, Muri'li Id -Tim llinnlnii nl
Verdun la rcp-nnled n mnrli lietter from
tlm Kronen viewpoint. h a reanlt of
Thuradm fighting. Notwltlixmidliig an
annrnioii ejpendllurc of ammunition nml
unallnteil ncrlflce nf life, the Herman
nave failed to In-nil, imirh les break
the blue Una.
Khauatel liy three tlaa of violent f
fnrla. the aaeallanta railed a half-day
, reel I" renlenleh the depleted ranKa of
Infantry The Krenrh took advimtnge of
tha rplt to aweep nut nearly nil the
Wermana remaining In the t'nrheam
wood.
Tint renawnl of heavy flihtlnc euat nf
III Meune, attended liv a rlc of
a nil on Ik-itinumnnl hna reulereil once
tnor on Mil portion nf I tic front
In the Wnevre the Herman did nut
attempt to puraue their notion further
Trench Advanc. Ordered
Not ofleil In the lung liattl hay the
Krenrh Infantrymen had the order to ad
vance, hut they received uch an order
ednrily and ThlirHly (In Tucdny
night the (lermitna held vlrtuallv I he
whole of the fin-beaux wood and nn ad
vane ivoelt hd crnsaed the road Into
t'umlerea wood To prevent the Her
man from cm I Inn the coinmiiulcnlliin
(('flttaued m I'm Twt
(MM '( it I 1 ! I '
HOUBORS' COULD THIS
SUSPICION BE POSSIBLE?
I'm- mlr of ni nl nnr rhlM
one iiml. one .-jtt . one whI-Ii.
one jmh kethook. two .'hoi-p. two
mh;,, one i'oIImi. our tic. ino'
. Unit', one hoiili- oiM-iifr on i-ip'
4iil one i iKnr Filch h the f i nil
vlon iiffnci nt the atlcmpt-
I'd In arrcl Will Mudieml III a
loom lit III... West "HllfiM lll.l
. .num. lute Tlmi eily lllnlit.
e Midt.ion I h porter Mt tl1
ItriunluiM iVntini hotel. n open
. w linliov nhowed llv cup h they
iiinlilnl lo. ute I hill prrv Win I her
nl lint the tnK nhlne w oic .1 11 1 1 1 1 n ic
I'l !l.lltle liMlllMluelltM When
. he 1, . , ihionKli the nllm in I1I.1
! ! .1 iii hi- tor hiilne lind ;fetv In
I" "''1 1 " 11 '. lull lln In inllil'iliK
ili'i ' He llilll the lHldke ulill llil.l
line ml. Mini lis lir inctrd
t 'in t it 1 Ihkii il 10 u"iime tlmi
the iiuiiii m toiiiiiiiK the 5llceli
of the , hi ,i hi mhiielle
M i ,1 1 1 t s 1 . i t i . . 1 i ,.
PORTUGAL CALLS
FIGHTING FORCE
Llizo Arrendondo, General Crranz.'i ambassador here, received the news of the pre-1
j ident's decision with the statement that he could make no comment and would at once notify
I ; General Carranza. Friday he declared it was his own opinion that such action would not
be resented.
General Scott said today that the necessity of providing even a stronger force for the
' border than it now has, while the American troops are operating in Mexico, would necessitate
. using some troop not now there for the punitive expedition. They probably will be ordered
V from other posts. No plans have been made so far as is known for use of the National Guard.
! CONGRESS EXPRESSES SATISFACTION.
Congress received the news of the decision to go after Villa with troops with undisguised i
satisfaction. Army officers voiced unanimous approval. A general feeling of relief that the j
. administration had finally decided to take the step was apparent.
The president, himself, is firmly convinced of the necessity of eliminating Villa from the
THE WEATHER.
I.ui'IL KtihKi'AST Den.rnlU fnlr
weather lonlpht and Salunlni . some
Ahni mlder tiinittht
Okl.MI'l.M Tiniitht and .'ivlunlo
lan weather.
1 VILLA'S MURDERS
WRECK PEACE IN
HOURLY TEMPERATURE.
CANTON THINKS OKLAHOMA NATIONAL GUARD
MAY BE USED TO PATROL MEXICAN BORDER
Tlmi llir attidiiic liy I'reiidrtit WiUon of I tilled Slnlt I roups into Mcviro lo rapt lire uVail nr alivt ilia and
I he Im i nl I It who nn Thttrrhi.v raltlrd (nlunihiix, Nen Mexico, mat iillimntel) re-.ult In Inlert itlon ws Ihr hrllcf
of Adjutant lietieml (anion of ihr Oklahmna Nallntwl (.unrd. when nmt ill hi office tit I aflernrMMi hy a rrft
rrrnlallr nf llir Time after aiiitntittrenintl had hren nuwlr nf Ihr nrn from Uaahlnirtmi.
(eiteral ( anion hrllrtra Carrama may ttrrlnnaly ohjrrt lo thr pmwnrr f I nllrd Stale troop In .Mrxir"
anil Ilia! rlahm may arise, perhaH without aiilhoriiatltm, hetwmi (arranilnt and Ameriran forcen, which
would rrxtilt In actual Intervention.
The (hlahtmia National dtianl. helleien (ieneral ( anion. In quite likely to he ordered to patrol the Mexican
iMinler and prevent ln anion of .American territory, pending the time when the regular army ran he hmurht to
Mar Ireiiieth.
He helieen thai the arlnal rnnquet of Mexico wnn'tl take from 2M),(MM) to .lOfl.OOO troop and thai no action
will Ite taken hj Ihr dcinrtnictit of war an regards order lite, out the National (iiutrd iinlll emigres has acted upon
hills now being argued. ,
( t i m
1: p m
I a ni
I m
! t m
S in
in n. in
1 I'niHin
II p in
I in
: h ni
i in
a
II h
1 I'
Oklahoma City Women Loss
I'l Brothers by Ruthless
Hand of Bandit.
SWEDEN TO REMOVE MIE FIELD
KTiMMlnl.M. M.in h I" i l.t l."inl"n
4" in I Thi..--i di-li innn nl Inis
.liK ldi d to rei m Hi" inn ri mine
field off f"l.-terlio ,1.enil liesiper
d'-clnre lh.it the i J. iiiiso "hin t In the
IhiIiik of tin c mine Is In prevent nil
truffle between the lliilllc nd Hie Nocih
TREBlNDlUE
TO CAPITULATE
H. M. HART. FORMER U. S.
OFFICIAL HERE, SLAIf.
Mrs. Jno. W. Choate and Mrs.
A. C. Andrews Mourning
Relatives' Passing.
PARIS. March 10 The Portu
guese legation announce that a date
of war xliti between the Portu
out republic and the German em.
pir at from 6 o'clock Thurtday
night.
I.ISWIN, Mmih 5-tVin rniln. Mulch
I", in u in dchijnl I An ofliclnl rte.
iree m i. plienrdid lonlaht eiiiniiimlii
nil naval te-ervc to Join Iheli nhlp lin-
Ilied'Htel
llerr Ito.en, the ileiniiin mlnleler lte
l lldlll pienenteil the ullliuntliint of the
ietntnn Rovei iimeiit The public la
deepK coni'iirui'd hecnunc thin nctlon I
.uplHiei'd to inenn wni. The ileinnin
H1I teiunlhlii nrc inklii; nn nnRetnenla
lo depllll loillll
PALLBEARER ARRESTED
W II.MINilTON
hum ll.imlshtr.
I'el. Munh lit.-WII-
Ameilinn tumps ere lielna enl after
Vllin. t'HiimiKti Hill he notified Inline
dlRlely Hint thr l ulled State ha nn In
Iteiitlnn nf tnklnR u Meilen teirltoiv
iirlmlrxer mid resiecte fully the nv
i lelgnl) nf thnt nllon
ON CHARGE OF MURDER Carr.n,. Arabia to ln...,.
American uffhinl tellie that t rrii-
may have illlllrulty In eonsentlni; to
the mesence of Amerhan anldler on
rrrted I'rlday i Meilean ll hcCnime ot popular feellim
chiiiRed with the murder of Percy i 1 In 111 counliy. t'nrrnnRn hlmaelf. how
Mumon. iiki'iI :in llandsher him i ded ever, la believed In he no eRer for II
wlth III- Mulleo., .in.l , . .,!,. ;l c.ptum Hint he my co.operle llh
. , ... I the AmcrliHit troop,
bearer t Mntlaon fiinerl. Ill r-
. ., At the ehlnet meetlni the dlcuslnn
re.t fnllowen n rliiteinent hy Mr. , (hr ,,,, ,,rlM ,rt ,u
Mattnon. hn nld lluniUher ndmllted I point The cabinet unanimously agreed
lnt Monday nlaht Ihnt he hml alii ket) 1 that the only thin to do waa to unit
her hualiniid, cnrrleil hi uiiconaciinin ! troop I'resldent VIIon took th nm
fotm to the river nnd held the heml poelllon nd nt oni Inntrurted Beeratary
uhmrraed until he waa ante Mnttanii linker to lue I he neceary order, lln
waa dead. The victim body wn fnund julmi Instructed Berretnry ljnlti to lu
lu the river Tueadny form (lenernl Orrnnin of the attitude
Mr. Malleoli elated, accnnllna lo the I of the American government.
IKiiice, Ihnt llnndalier had kept her under
Mexican situation. He is represented as determined to oust Villa as he was to oust Victoriano
Huerta.
I he announcement of the intention of the president to send troops into Mexico
W iQm 'iKMipe Ii.im" lulidril on the lll.uk ee.i cnael
companied by scenes not equaled by those at the White House since the declaration to ni aiu Iiukh . .i h itip.n
the Atlantic fleet to Vera Crui in 1914.
No 1111110 will lie mailt1 liy the iihvv fur the present. l'tHi'th-nlly the rutin- AiIhiiiIc flr- hnever. 1 wltlilu tn
ilni' -nil of lln- Alrxti'Nli cincl Hinl nIiiiiiIiI t rrnii7.M fm it'H lie uiiiilile In roleit Atnerli HiiM or other fnrclmi nub
Jrrtn III eHie nf lluti the IIHVJ will lie priwottl Into servlif lllilliiHlliitely. Till- a- flMlnl Hiltlinrttntlvelv Krldiv nl the
inivy ilepnrlinetit.
I'alna were taken by nfflcUln to punt t hy Villa which h-d up to the 01 - In the prenent altunlinn l tin tge
out their hope ihnt tlrnernl I'nrinnan j derlng nf troop to eflect bin cnplin e. ! The n lnilnlm mi Ion hi Id that the pre.l-
woulil realize the ..pllrl In which Hi' I Sanat Defeat Cut Short. d-nt la (nl veateil In the ci-nniltullon
I To i ikl.ihnnin I'm hitmen are 1,-
iiiiiniimm n u tenlt of the tnhl by
Villon h. nn In. ni nn i oh, mime, N. M ,
' eurli 'I hnieiUi niiiimiiK when aiiiaar)
Ainetii nn wen- kil!d nml a ninny mora
wnuinle.1 'the hoiiie Hie llltue of Mra,
SIIINi;T".V M.u.h I'l ltui.iit Jnliii W li... it.-. :m Wei Klghteenlh
viieei ii ml Mi. r Andrew. Sir
e.t Setroih ireet iioih of whom hmt
liioihere iiul-.uii" killed In the fiahllnc.
f Trebiminl - iniiinneot. ni'i-nl-lli'H to ir ( f,,,4ir w,r,. of John W ( hoal.
ilieput. h leceued I ridnv ft oin the un nnrirnev in iiianonia lty who la
1 luti. nn n bual-
i 'nn itlni.nle ' "
neNa nnLlnn mum mil uK.r.. of Hi. iluih
' , of her brothel
While the president and the rjhlnrt I ,, ,iiiitv , r,,,. m,n ,,,,1 hll
Allierh-Hli 1 nili-i"
Hie iie nepniiiiien. u.-- " n.. ,)f h,r )r , ,..r K iiBr, a.n.
Ihnt the inerican 1 01. "ill nl 'l iehliond npector for (he I S Iniienii of anlmnt
li it il i.L 1.1 -he nr. hue or it..- li.-r . ' " " ni.-i 111 r.i laav
11. no coi.-llte tb.-ie The ioiiomii con. I
ul lin let!
hi iniwer Hiid h wn nfruld to tell of
the crime until after the funeral.
BAKKet DECLARES BANKRUPTCV.
Sninuel It. Mi-t'omiai k, nierchanillln
Imker nml confectioner nf eatherlor.t,
t'lieli'i eoiiiit), hna fllr.l voluntnry
pilltlon In bniikruilcy In the office nf
the federal dltrlcl conn clerk. Ill -m-i
ie given nt 1 .013. IS of which linn
I claimed n i.mpt, and hi llnhllltle
nt l.'.mi. Mmiy of the firm llntmt hp
debloi are located In Oklahoma I'lly
but the Individual account are mll.
Preddent Conferred Flrat With Congr.
1-Rilei of both hnueeff of congie
were Immediately notified from the, White
II. line of the preldent' action. They
approved hi rnurae.
tie f nr deciding finally to eend the
trfiep fter Villa, the prealdent conferred
over the telephone with Chairman Stone
tf the ente foreign relation committee,
w-liii I old him he believed th fentlnient
of rnngie would xilldly mpport hi ac
tion. It w considered poMihle tht within
n few dv I're.hlrnt Wilson might go
before ryngiee to rerltn the Mrlei of
aere deciding to end the troop ovei
the border the null a t Ion hit. I broken out
nfie.h In congie.
Senator Mci 'uinl.ei nnd Sennlor l- ll.
both refitilihrnri. tntroiluceil resolution
pinpoilng rmcd net Inn In different way
Moth t-nliitlnn were referred In the
foreign telutlnnn committee while f'hRlr
mnn Stone coiinpelled hi colleninieji to
lit the ekcciitlve ileiartnient of the
gciveinnicnt handle tin sltuntlon
While the ennle wits talking Rnd onie , tl ey
deultiiry speeches weie heliiK tnniln In
the limn..- the president ncled. nnd the
leader, notified ipi.-kl by telephone
from the White llnuee pnsseil ttie word
Rrnund It apread otilckly. hut
houne nd ente received It ni roolly
a an announcement of the passage of
a routine bill.
lln -re are ample ptecedents In Intern
tbnal law r..r htn linn e..peeilly In
the dealing of Hie I nii'd Stales with
.Mexico.
Applause R-eeie, a .-tint -..I In the
limine tlmi troops 1-e icnt inioss the
border
'The gnveiiimeni .honlrl lake ihls met.
tei In hnml nt once.' .hl Itepiesenia
llve Smith of Tetas, ' seit r ps fte-
tne m'i.miii nd pnr.iie theni until
me captineil Thei ahnuld lie
brought bik alive or dead If thev ,re , ,
captured alii, thev should be l.roosht j 3,1 53 NON-COMBATANTS
- .mi., nun iim.iiiiii. 1 wiiiiKi inn no 1
limit on th number of mile our troop '
liNlniN M..h I'1 I;i.ei:i is icil.
lug pi . pain l.-na M n" the ie.-intl .ip
lined hnib.'r ..I Hm . n nvl base fm
the .ltie. 1. 11 I " hi'.' I'd tii-ci wliti h
It I thirty five nu'-e diiunl. 11. . nrdlnr
to I'elri.Rnid ill'pil l.e the lln..!!--row
entov colli pi' I e mnslen !li Itn- H.i k
!- lid 'C k'-'plPg ....Sell-" Vigil OH
the lti..i.. ns
KILLED AMONG ALLIES
both might hare to an Into .Meiieo tn d.i Ihls
To i-rrhi I wnuld aav that we i ' " "
only lining our duly" ' UiNHoN, Mi.li In II" '.'1 ml
Pratenl Strength on Lln. The number of noii-miuhntanta killed b
4H,ilreat Itntnln s enemies slin e the be-
temocrt Reiiernllv etnreesed the
opinion thai the president' iietlnn w Approiiniately U.nftn troop with
wholly juttKled 11 inl the lepubllcun who ."mnntnin natterlea and flel.l gun Rr on ,lm,mg of the nr aggr.-gHte :t 11 1 rue
Ittenlt v.n men l.lneli .
third of Hi. I force I cavalry and all could '""'" '" rvr" ' I'lie,, . er,
lie aaienibled t ny point between the I killed In lr iald Aptuminintelv .1,7 ,11
. . Ih. k.,rl.i I... . . .. li..l. Wl.. ...
nave neen urging acuon xpressii grail- 1 ""- . ..,,.ain.. . imiIjrj ,n,
ricntinn mat It nnd been tiiK'-n Thnial'-' ' 1 n-ne more
waa no Irii of ill venihin
If President Wilson appenrn liefore
congre within the net! few day It
probably will be tn Inform that body tal
ly and nrriclnllv of the alule of affair
In northern Melco which led up to th
two pnaltlnn within two di.
The caalry and a hat-tallon of moun
tain artillery with 12 mountain guns es
pecially ilealgneri for the character of
ni.n-romhalnt lost their lives on hoard
Hi It led merchant -el
COUNTY SfCAITAmfS NAMED.
in. III. In w ih he
'tevus 111.nl liifiu meil bv The Time
l firl ahe ws iclii.lt nt lo hellevn
Hi. lepott of In di-Hih ii carried In tha
11.11.1I11 lis! In the s.klnted Preaa
iii d .e. I.ne.l i,,ir r. either heraelf noi"
tier lein'iien I. . , l he. n infornieil of tha
leinlse of lor Imulier
ll'iionr she In.ine.lhtielv aenl Hies,
since to lo-r relatives tu 1 oliiinbiia, Ulilo;
In lln- Km .-rninenl huiesii In KI I'hsa
nml m 1 nl 111 1 I ' 1- t , seeking con
flt nut -1.111 nf ihr lurss dispatch telllnar
of lis mule ii-apecini'a death Hha
aim i.nlille.l her h.isti-iiul
Hart Burned to Oaath.
Xci Hiding to the atnri carried hy 'h
As.n. isie.i I'resn. II. M Mart waa burned
to ibath In the fire of the oinmarclsl
hotel. 10 which the torch waa t hy tba
11. lets 1 Tunis lieWItt Miller of Al
l.ii.uei..ie. N M . a traveling man, alao
met iti-nth at the same time. It tg ga
sutned that Hart wn In t'ntumbu on
business connected with the bureau nf
Ntttinnl Industry
the ilenil ttimi 1 well known to hun
dreds nf resident of Oklahoma t'lly and
the mte of tikhihoma He wag bar fne
ilnee tear, during 1 T. lung and 1M.
with the In. nl huretiu of animal, In.
dustry. field dlvlalon. He waa 11 yaara
of tige. and when b eame tn iMtlahoami
1 lit from hi hum In t 'nlumhu. tihlo.
wheie he wa lairn and raeoivad th
greater pact of hi education, b
on til firnt gnverrimeutNl "aaatgnmant "
Ills duty was tn travel thrmifhoajt that
ending of American forci and to take I "thllng which the punitive expedition ! .
eongrea fully Into hi confidence ' could be trnihlcd within I tltiv P lliumn of Mtu. fnimer meni-
Pcsld.nl Amolt- Vaslarf Iwentv-fnur hnlll . ; .r of the slate .eniile, Inl. l--.lt i
When the Atlantic- fleet went tn Ve..LThP V"- Seventh. Klglill. and!''"1"''''. ,i.,.h.'1"' 'l""'' "n"! ! -'-' t pert cattle dc.rted for Oh.a-
1-.. 111 ...nu. n.r p. ...rini ninnn nia ' ,
bonier between lunulas and KI 1'st.i " elect Ion board H. I.
The Klevenlh Klghteenth anil Twenty. 1 M'-'laugltey of. Ms. In. hs be.-n p
second lnfnlr, th Klulh Held ttll!eii !l'"""l se.tet.rv nf the Stephen mnn-
nt iiisaiti Hiiti I r. 111 rtriiiiitii ni Mtiur
(Cealuiw rag Tw. ' He, aectrtaty nf tlx !igau cutiul board. trits aa ra Two.)
fill In lull, emigres at the president I
reipiet. passed a resolution authorl- !
leg- hlin lo use the armed force of th
I n led Stele
No uili nctlon I loruildcied nceary
ment t other state and to enforce gen. .
etnllt iiiHiantlne regulation. He WSS
n rapHble, praiehed. brilliant genUenj)gn
r. W. rtrnwat, in rhrgrT tha (Irld
I'l
