THE RONAN PIONEER
The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Entered as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
office at Ronan. Montana, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VI. NO. 46. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, MARCH 10. 1916. $2.00 Per Year
TEST BETWEEN
WILSON AND FOES
Washington, March 7.-On the eve
of what friends of the administration
have planned as the final fight to end
agitation in the house over the ques
tion of armed merchant ships, debate
on the subject broke out on the house
floor and continued hotly for more
than an hour.
When it was over there seemed tc
be more of a partisan alignment than
at anytime since the issue arose.
Representative Mann of Illinois, the
Republican leader, and Representative
Lenroot of Wisconsin, Republican
member of the rules committee, gave
notice that they would oppose the
rule under which it is proposed to ta.
ble the McLemore warning resolution
after ninety minutes of debate on the
rule and four hours' discussion of the
resolution itself.
Flood in Patriotic Plea.
On the other hand, Chairman Flood
of the foreign affairs committee, whc
has been understood personally to fa
vor a warning resolution, voiced an
appeal to all patriotic congressmen tc
stand by the president.
There will be formidable opposition,
both in and out of the party, however,
and the influence of William Jennings
Bryan is being taken into account as
a big factor to be dealt with.
Fourteen representatives and two
senators met at lunch with Mr. Bryan
in the private dining room of a hotel
near the Capitol and discussed affairs
generally.
What transpired there remained a
secret, except that Representative
Bailey of Pennsylvania, who was the
host, said no general agreement was
reached on what action should be tak"
en on the armed ship question. Repre
sentative Van Dyke of Minnesota was
among those present.
Resolution on Calendar.
The first step toward getting the
Mrkemore resolution before the house
was taken by Representative Foss of
Illinois, a Republican, at the request
of the. Democratic members of the
iules committee, it is said. He askerl
that it be placed on the calendar, and
it was done without debate.
But Mr. Gardner did not wait. The
house was in the committee of the
whole considering a homestead bill
when he heard of the report, and ob
taining time for a speech, he launch
ed into a vigorous attack on the rules
committee, declaring that its failure
to report a straight warning resolu.
tion could be attributed only to parti
sanship and fear of the result of such
a vote.
As Mr. Gardner finished speaking, a
score of representatives, who have
been nursing warning resolution
speeches for days, sprang to their fee
and pleaded with the leaders in charg
of the homestead bill for a chance tc
talk. Representative Mann took the
first opportunity on the Republican
side to talk himself.
Mann Heartily Cheered.
The galleries seemed to fill by magic
and representatives rushed in from
cloakrooms. His opening words, de
claring that Mr. Gardner spoke for
no one but himself, were greeted with
applause and thenceforth until the con
clusion of his speech, which lasted
about fifteen minutes, he frequently
was interrupted by shouts of approval.
"I dare say," said Mr. Mann, "there
are few members of the house who
would say that the McLemore resolu
tion, so called, expressed his senti
ment or his position, and I undertake
to say that a majority of the members
of this house, if they expressed their
opinion. are of the opinion that Ameri
can citiens at this time ought not to
ccmplicate the situation by traveling
in armed merchant vessels."
SENDS LETTER TO BISHOPS
Rome, March 7.-Pope Benedict,
in a Lenton letter to bishops, protests
against the continuance of the war,
which he alludes to as the "suicide
of civilized Europe."
The letter recalls the pope's pre
vious efforts to establish peace and
sets forth this proposal, made by him
several months ago:
Each belligerent should clearly state
his desires, but should be ready to
make necessary sacrifices of pride and
particular interests, thus ending the
monstrous conflict in accordance with
justice and re-establishing peace; ad
vantageous to neither side, but profit.
able to all, and therefore a just and
lasting peace.
The pope recommends that alms be
given for child victims of the war,
Such almsgiving is suggested as apm
propriats for the Lenten season In
neutral countries.
You can still join the swearing off
ranks if you have not already done so.
Stop talking war.
MILES CITY SHIPS STOCK
Sends More Animals Out of the State
Than Any Other Town.
Miles City ships more horses out of
Montana than any other city in the
state, according to notification re
ceived by the sheriff's office there. The
report is that of the live stock inspec
tors and sheriffs of the state, which
is made out annually and sent to all
officials of the state.
The report shows that the total of
horses shipped was 50,221 and of these
Miles City shipped 29,444, of which
645 were inspected by the sheriffs
office and the remainder by the stock
inspector. The next place to Miles
City was Billings, which shipped 4,979
head.
These are simply the horses inspect
ed and shipped. When the number of
horses sold at the Miles City yards to
nearby dealers who trade among
themselves or who buy at the sales
and take them out into the country is
considered it may easily be surmised
that the total will run to- 40,000 or
more for the year.
CITIZENS ARE AIDING WORK
Chancellor Elliott Says Friendliness
and Co-Operation Exist.
"The most encouraging and grati
fying sign to me that the people of
Montana take a deep and real inter
est in the affairs of the University
of Montana is the spirit of friendli
ness toward the new plan of adminis
tering the state educational institu
tions and the desire to co-operate
manifested in the communities where
the institutions are located,' said )'r.
Edward C. Elliott, chancellor in charge
of these schools.
"This spirit is most refreshing and
has been manifested not only individ
ually, but collectively. It is one of the
biggest and most potent assets the
higher institutions of learning possess.
Without it effective and constructive
work would be made most difficult;
with it nothing can hinder the insti
tutions from going forward and doing
greater good for the young men and
women and for Montana as a whole.'
MANTLE NOT A CANDIDATE
Refuses to Allow His Name to Be Used
for Senatorial Nomination.
Former Senator Lee Mantle of Butte
will not be a candidate for the United
States senatorial nomination on the
Republican ticket this year.
Leon Shaw, chairman of the Repub
lican central committee of Sweet
Grass county, has received a letter
from Hon. Lee Mantle of Butte, in re
sponse to a direct inquiry by Mr.
Shaw, saying that he will not be a
candidate for the United States sen
ate to succeed Hon. Henry L. Myers,
Democrat.
Mr. Mantle says he has received
similar inilmiries from many friends in
the state and has given the matter
careful consideration, but that upon
the advice of his physician, who in
forms him that a senatorial campaign
would be perilous, h~e will not enter
the race.
QUALITY OF WATER IS GOOD
Helena System Stands Test From San
itary Standpoint.
"The survey shows, on the whole,
that the water being supplied the wa
ter system of the city is fairly satis
I factory from a sanitary standpoint."
This is the gist of a synopsis made
to the Helena city board of health of
the recent sanitary survey undertaken
by the state board of health there.
The synopsis was filed with the city
council. As an additional safeguard
of the city's health the city board rec
ommends the installation of a liquid
chlorine plant at the intake of the
Ten Mile system.
Invents New Bomb.
An appliance to deaden the sound
of exploding bombs and a new incen
diary bomb are the devices on which
Whit Terrell of Wibaux seeks patent.
He has offered both to the United
States government. They have re
ceived commendation from the war
department.
INDIAN COMMITTEE SAYS
$150,000 FOR FLATHEAD
The senate committee on Indian ait
fairs on Tuesday adopted as an amend
ment to the Indian appropriation bill
an item carrying $750,000 for continu
ing work on the Flathead irrigation
project.
Missoula Meeting Postponed
On account of the condition of the
roads and the bad weather prevailing
at this time, the railroad meeting ar
ranged for tonight at Missoula, has
been postponed. The date of the
I meeting will now be announced later.
W. A. CLRAKMAY AID
RESERVATION ROAD
According to a man who has taken
an active part in the work for a rail
road from Missoula to Poison, W. A.
Clark has been approached on the sub
ject of subscribing for a half interest
in the stock of the proposed road and
the former senator has asked for data
as to the amount of tonnage available
for such a road, if built. It is esti
mated the electric railway from Mis
soula to the little town on Flathead
lake will cost about $1,000,000. The
road if built, would act as a feeder
from the valley for the transcontinent
al lines which reach Missoula, the Mil
waukee and the Northern Pacific.
At a meeting to be held in Missoula
Friday, delegates from Ronan, which
has taken an especially active part in
the flight for a railroad,and other res
ervation towns will have the data
showing what the empire can annually
produce in the way of railroad tonnage.
The building of a 'road would add
materially to the wealth of the Flat
head reservation. Bankers and busi
ness men have interested themselves in
the project.
"This railroad talk has passed the
hot air stage and the people of that
section of Western Montana are ready
to do sometning to get the road in there
and think that Montana capital can
well be invested in a railroad from
Hellgane to Poison. It would do wonder
ful things for a country that is as rich
as any in Montana." said the booster
who was in Butte yesterday with the
news that W. A. Clark was ready to
consider the facts regarding the pro
posed road.--Anaconda Standard.
PROMINENT ATTORNEYS ARE
OPPOSED TO MR. BRANDEIS
It is too early to make a definate pre
diction regarding the action of the Sen
ate on the nomination of Louis D.
Brandeis for Justice of the Supreme
Court. Mr, Brandeis' unfitness for
that high office has, however, been con
clusively proven, according to reports
from Washington. Massachnsetts law
yers of the highest reputation and
standing have testified to that, Albert
E. Pillsbury, one of the oldest and most
respected lawyers at the Boston bar
and a former Attorney-General of Mass
achusetts, testified, regarding Brandeis:
"He is an active, adroit and successful
business lawyer, a man of unbounded
audacity, a man of duplicity and double
dealing, a man who works under cover,
so that one never knows where he is or
what he is about." Edward W. Hutch
ins, another old and highly respected
lawyer of Boston, said of Brandeis:
"He is a lawyer of great ability, but
not straightforward." These expres
sions are indicative of a mass of testi
mony given the investigating commit
tee so that if the Senate votes to con
firm him it will be simply because
Senators dare not oppose the President,
even though they regard Brandeis as
unfit to be a Supreme Court Justice.
President Broke Faith
A Washington correspondent writes:
"That President Wilson is solely to
blame for the strained relations be
tweeen the United States and Germany
is the belief of a majority of the Dem
ocrats in Congress and the conviction
of practically all the Republicans. By
offering, in return for a disavowal by
Germany of the Lusitania sinking, to
propose to the allied powers the dis
armament of all merchant ships, with
the alternative that those armed may
be torpedoed without warning, and by
conveying to the German Ambassador
the impression that this Government
would approve of such a policy as Ger
many has adopted. Trusting the good
faith of President Wilson, the German
Admiralty openly proclaimed its pur
pose to sink all armed merchantmen
without warning, so that now it can
alter its purpose only with humiliation,
while the German people will seriously
blame their government as vacillating
and supine. It is only fair to Mr. Wil
son to say that all in close touch with
the situation beleive he meant to carry
out his trade with Germany and would
have done so had it not been for Senator
Root's speech, and for the Sterling res
olution, which exposed the fact that on
two distinct occasions Mr. Wilson had
taken officially a diametrically opposed
position. r
PERTINENT FACTS
ABOUT A RAILROAD
Just at the present time, any thing
about a railroad attracts unusual atten
tion. This is absolutely true for the
reason that it is the one thing the peo
i pie of the Flathead desire above all
others. It is the one thing which
would be of greatest value to the com
mercial prosperity of this section.
That is the reason why any meeting
called to discuss the building of a road
always attracts so large an attendance.
It is not only those who live in the
towns who are interested, but the
farmers show'a greater interest than
those who live and do business in the
towns. This is especially true for the
reason that the farmers are the ones
who are injured the most by lack of
transportation facilities. It costs the
farmers double what it should to mar
ket their crops after it is harvested,
and threshed than it would with a rail
road close to their homes. Thefarmer
is compelled to pay for this disregard
of this situation in two ways, first in
the added cost to him in getting his
products to market, and second,
by having to pay increased costs of
wagon freight from the railroad to his
local merchant for the goods he buys.
It cuts both ways with the farmer.
That is the great big reason why so
many, if not all of them, are showing
such deep interest in the present ag
gitation looking toward building an
electric line from PoIson to Missoula by
way of Ronan and St. Ignatius.
Those not acquainted with the con
dition and the darwbacks connected
with farming operations on the Flat
head cannot conceive how vital it is to
our people. It is even so important
thpt not only one but numerous farm
ers have signified their willingness to
put on teams to do the grading and
take their pay in stock of a company
should one be started. Others have
said that they would take stock in the
company for a right of way across their
lands, should it be located so as tQ
cross the same. This shows that they
are in earnest and they will help in
every way possible to get the road
under way and finally built.
It has been stated and there is no
doubt about the truth of the statement
that the added cost to every farmer
who now hauls his grain to the railroad,
would in seven years pay for the build
ing of the road from Poison to Dixon.
To this cost must be added the ad
ditional it would take to build to Mis
soula, but it is thought that the com
petion two railroads at Missoula would
afford would amply repay for the cost
of extending the line on to Missoula.
To merely build to Dixon would still
give the Northern Pacific a cinch on all
the traffic of the Flathead, as that
road now enjoys much to our detriment
and discomfort. and with it built to
Missoula would be a strong competitor
for the tonnage.
But even so badly as a railroad is
needed at the present time, to accom
plish this result, will require much
capital, and that capital must come in
the main from outside sources. That
is why the meeting to be held tonight
at Missoula has been called, to endeav
or to enlist the aid of men with money
to join with the people here and start
the construction. It is thought that a
start will surely spell success in the
end. A little money subscribed by lo
cal men, to provide for a survey and
estimate of cost, to secure a right of
way, and other incidentals would at
tract the attention of eastern men
with money to invest and result in ac
complishing the desired end.
The effort is worth striving for and
with everyone interested wholeheartedly
working for the success of the project
it may result in something being ac
complished.
Two Resign
S. C. Swigart, manager of the irriga
tion and maintenance department of'
the Flathead reclamation project, with
headquarters at the Mission, has re
signed his office to take effect in 30
days.
He has been identified with the Flat
head project for the last three years.
He intends to enter private engineering
practice in Missoula in the near future.
D. I. Bosworth, who also has been
connected with the Flathead project,
has sent his resignation to the local
headquarters. He had been on leave,
visiting his home in Fort Collins, Colo.
While there he purchased several tracts
of ranch land. He forwarded his res
ignation from Fort Collins.
LEGAL BANQUET AT BUTTE
Governor, Judges and Attorneys At
tend Notable Session.
The largest and most successful
banquet yet held by the Silver Bow
Bar association was that which took
place at the Thornton hotel at Butte.
The president of the association, Carl
J. Christian. presided and introduced
the various speakers. The menu was
a fine one and during the time it was
being served an orchestra furnished
patriotic and popular airs.
Judge W. L. Holloway of the su
preme court was the first speaker. He
made a very interesting address, in
which he discussed the mode of pro
cedure of the highest court of the
state and suggested wherein reforms
might be inaugurated with advantage.
Attorney 1. M. Lamb next spoke on
"The Opportunities of the Law," while
A. N. \Whitiock, dean of the law de
partinent of the University of Mon
tana, spoke on "Legal Education."
Governor S. V. Stewart spoke on
the work accomplished by the lawyer
and Chief .Justice iirantly delivered an
address on "Legal Ethics."
There were also addresses by Judge
J. J. Lynch, W. 13. Rodgers and
Thomas J. Walker.
REISER GIVEN LONG TERM
Judge Says Verdict Should Have Been
First Degree Murder.
Joseph Reisor, recently convicted
at Bozeman of murder in the
second degree, was sentenced to a
tern of not less than forty years or
more than fifty in the state peniten
tiary at Deer Lodge. His victim, Jo
seph Fink, was found Dec. 24, mutilat
ed and dead in the cellar of a lonely
cabin near Bozeman.
In pronouncing sentence the judge
told Reiser that he should have been
found guilty of first degree murder,
because the condition of Fink's body,
his own flight to Dickinson, N. D., and
his attempt to cash a certificate of de
posit for $240 which lie had taken
from the body of Fink, had convinced
the court that Reiser's motive in com
mitting the crime was robbery.
Reiser showed no emotion when
sentence was pronounced, but main
tained that he fought Fink In self-de
fense.
NEWLON SECURES POSITION
Great Falls Man Is Secretary of Bank
ers' Association.
Edgar A. Newlon, cashier of the
Great Falls National bank, has re
ceived a telegram from C. W. Butler,
president of the Montana Bankers'
association, informing him that he had
been appointed secretary of the state
association in place of H. V. Alward.
former cashier of the Great Falls
Commercial National bank, who has
resigned his office in the bankers' as
sociation and departed for Tacoma.
Mr. Newlon is well known through
out the state, especially in banking
circles.
Mr. Newlon has accepted the ap
pointment and this maintains the
place of Great Falls among the offi
cers of the bankers of Montana.
r 312,694 ACRES FOR ENTRY
President Restores Land in Wyoming,
Utah and Montana.
President Wilson has just restored
to entry 113,348 acres of public land
in Western Wyoming, 188,358 acres in
Eastern Utah and 10,988 acres in
- West Central Montana.
The Wyoming and Montana lands
t had been reserved for phosphate de
posits, which they later were found
not to contain, and those in Utah had
been Included in a coal land with.
drawal.
Cutbank a Growing Terminal.
The Great Northern's roundhouse at
Cutbank will be doubled in size. Ten
new stalls, 160 feet long, capable of
housing two of the largest mountain
I engines tandem, will be provided. The
stalls in the present structure are
eighty feet long. The importance of
- the Cutbank terminal makes the ex
tension necessary. Officials say the
roundhous11s there will be one of the
largest on the Great Northern main
line. The Great Northern hotel and
dormitory will also be remodeled.
County Attorney H. W. Ilunston of
Big Horn county has been disbarred
and ousted from office by a decision of
the state supreme court at Helena. lie
cannot even practice law in the state
- within one year's time.
Evidence brought before the court
showed that Ilunston used his office
as a means to make money. It was
shown that he threatened persons with
arrest who owed bills.
The name of Dunston was stricken
from the roll of attorneys in this state.
Norway Is up against it, It is up to
her to find somebody to award the
Nobel peace prize to.
TEUTONS MAKE 4
FURTHER GAINS
Paris, March 7.-Flirther advances
I by the Germans--in the Verdun region
and in Champagne-are told of in the
latest French official communication,
which, however, also records suc
cesses in repelling a German attempt
to debouch further from a captured
position and the driving of the Teu
tons out of a trench they had taken,
- after the hammering with the French
big guns of German organizations.
After having vigorously shelled the
region between 13ethincourt and the
Meuse, the Germans, in a strong in
fantry attack, captured the village of
Forges, about nine miles northwest of
Verdun.
Not satisfied with the gains, they
several times essayed to debouch from
the village against Cote de 'Oie, but
the French, in counter attacks,- forced
them back into the village and held
them there.
In Champagne the right and left
thinks of the. French were attacked by
the Germans in the region between
Mont Tetu and Maisons de Charn:
pagne. At the former point the
Frinchl tire kept the Germans in their
trenches, but near Maisons de Chan
ta gne titey suiceeded in occupying a
sumall section of a French trench.
French Recover Trenches.
In the Argonne the French blew up,
near Courts Chausseus, a German post
with a mine and captured a portion of
the crater. Near Haute Chavauchee
the Gernians sprang two mines and
later entered the French trenches at
several points. Counter attacks, how
ever, drove them out, and the French
also occupied a portion of the mine
crater.
Except for the Infantry attacks at
Forges, the guns on both sides in the
Verdun region have been doing all the
work. To the southwest of Metz, near
Pout-a-Mousson, the French artillery
had damaged German positions.
The Rfussiano, under cover of the
fire of their fleet, at least, have been
nile to make a landing on the Black
sea coast to the east of Trebizond,
capturing the towns of Atina and Ma
prava and driving off the Turks, who
oposed them. Two officers and 280
men were taken, prisoners and two
guns and a quantity of munitions were
captured.
Considerable lighting between the
Russians and the Germans has taken
place in northwest Russia, the Rus
sian artillery smashing German
trenches in the Rega sector and dis
persing scouting parties in the vi
cinity of Friedrichstad.
Owing to the heavy rains and ava
lanches fighting has almost ceased on
the Austro-Italian front,
(leneva, Switzerland, March 7.
Eight hundred Austrian soldiers in
barracks were killed or wounded in
the raid made by Italian aeroplanes
Feb. 19 on the city of Laibach, accord
ing to information received here.
Two high officers of the staff of
Archduke Eugener commander-in-chief
of the Austrian forces operating
against Italy, are said to have been
killed. One of the Italian aeroplanes
was destroyed.
AUSTRIA HAS SMALL ENEMY
Considers Herself at War With San
Marino Republic.
Rome, March 7.-Austria considers
herself at war with the republic of
San Marino, is the message conveyed
by Frederick C. Penfleld, American
ambassador to Austria-Hungary, to
the regent of the smallest state in the
world, who had applied through him
to have their citizens interned in Aus
tria released. Austria justified her
refusal with the statement San Ma
rino has committed a serious breach
of neutrality.
The republic of San Marino, in
Northern Italy, fourteen miles south
west of Rimini, is twenty-two square
miles in area and has a population of
9,500. The supreme power of the re
public resides in the general assembly
and it is governed by two regents se
lected twice a year from her sixty
life members of the great council.
The available armed force of the
republic forms a total of about 1,200
men, all citizens able to bear arms be
ing technically obliged to do so from
the age of sixteen to sixty years. This
little state has had an existence of
about 1,000 years.
Sisters Die; Uncle Suicide.
Clarksburg, W. Va., March 7.-The
two little daughters of Michael Rader
were found dead in their home at
Clay Creek, Nicholson county. An
uncle, John Neal, was missing, and
a posse with bloodhounds set out to
search for him. 'His dead body was
found In the wood's. He had shot him
self.
