-V,
Stye JKartfW
DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF ALL THE PEOPLE OF OHIO COUNTY
Fine Job Work.
Subscription $1 per Yar
HARTFORD, OHIO COUNTY, KY., FRIDAY, MARCH 10; 1916.
s IS
VOL. XXVIII.
No. 36
fkmtMcan.
"
.-
:-e
a
VILLA BANDITS
SLAY AlEKICANS
HIDE INTO TOWN fiOO STRONG
SHOOT, KIIjIj AND LOOT
WITHOUT MKHUY.
r
CRISIS NOW
'REACHED
V. 8. Troopers Killed In flattie With
JUcxIcnnN AiiuflmiiB HuiikcU
And Bodies Burned.
i
u;
Columbus, N. M March 9. Flvo
hundred Villa bandits attacked this
point at- 4:30 this morning, filled a
number of civilians, men und women,
and held possession of tho town for
nn hour ami a half. Driven off by
tlirco troops of tho Thirteenth Cav-
nlry, they relrcalod at C o'clock, Ichv-.'nV"B wft8 wounded and his wife,
ing part of tho town In names. M"c ll' rn slated.
A largo number ot Mexicans wero1 Tho bandits attacked the town
killed. Their bodies dotted Btrects shortly after midnight, according to
where thoy hud been posted picking railroad mclnl8 ,,d 8ot flr to ronany
off Americans as thoy emerged poll- lwlMI"K". American soldiers fired
mell out of dwellings and hotels., "I them and tho battlo followed.
.There appeared to bo no wounded.' "' fragmentary details came to
Several guests wore burned to death , Paso of the fighting.
In tho Central Hotel, jhlc1i was one Jt before daylight a long distance
of tho first buildings Urcd by Villa's telephone messago to the M Paso po-
. Hco from Doming said the 'bandits
Mexican bandits standing otsldeN' attacked the depot at Columbus
tho flaming building shot down A. ami that.Unlted States soldiers , w ire
L. Ritchie, proprietor of the hotel, "eating them off with machine gun
nnd W. R. Walker, a guest, ns they flre- , I
attempted a dash out of the door. I Iter a telephone message came
Both were dead when picked up from Conductor Lumley, of an ex tra
freight train on tho El Paso & South-'
11 a C. Miller, owner of a drug store.' tern railroad, who telephoned to
was shot us ho tried tb enter tho door .o genera superintendent hat he
of tho Hoover Hotel, nn abode struc- 8''- ml es c8' Columbus and
Ure. whoso mud walls protected a afraid to take the train into the town
score ot' cowering women and cllll. because of tho fighting He reported
dren who remained In the rooms. "" o Balers ha, 1 at opp dhU
while a howling mqb of bandits sure- ro,n wlth ho dcc,a,r h" J "f
cd through tho surrounding streets, "6 ", '"?.!,
TJiey first attacked tho. camp of annd 'f T, n n Pv wn tn
tho Thirteenth Cavalry. ThoVamp The sold loro told him they wero In
Itself suffered little, but n number "l r rrlii(orconiontB.
r a ,,,... i.ii.,r. wpr killed and , A. Danlcy. cMcf clerk, ordered tho
,.. i.. ,..,.
WOUIUIUIl, 11I1U II "iimuvi u. --..-".j
horses ridden off by tho Mexicans
ns they ilcd back toward Mexico alt
er daylight.
Mr. and Mrs. Milton James nnd J.
Dean, merchant, wero later added to " l0Z0' .
tho list of Americans killed. ! " Shallenberg r. ado
The attack was a complete surprise, Ocn. J. J. Perah .Inir. received Jn-
Villa deceiving all tho authorities by formation that Mexican bandits dur-
dlspatchlng a telegram to Ilaehttn. In " nifilt ntItncked " ral1:
N. M.. last night, saying that ho was " Pot Columbus, and burned
at tie Nocule. ranch In thlhnuhua. depot and coal shutes. and when
near the border, at least forty-four "red upon by American soldiers , ad
nil- from here. This telegram as returned the fire Lieut. Sha len
slgued ostensibly by the American rger wa. , inclined to doubt that. the
J retaker of the ranch, and stated American troops were in need of re-
tbat Villa personally was at the tnforcements. and thought the two
' ' uoldlers who talked to Conductor
Ml thoU while, however, the Mex- Lumley wc unduly excited There
lean bandit leader was making his f11 f nt (Th rteenth Cav-
W from Bosques Crandes ranch, nlry) .at Columbus under command
about twenty-ftve miles southwest ot f Col. Slocum. The regiment has
. four machine guns.
' . , , ,,, I Lieut. Shalienberger said plenty
A Mexican scout gave an Intl- nvnflhi ftt-vrt nnss
matlon oMhls. .Ho reported late
Ia3t night that he saw two parlies
of Villa's men moving eastward from
Bosquo Grand es ranch toward Pdlo
mns, nn abandoned Carrauza outpost,
six miles diroctlylsouth below' here.
Col. H. J. Slocum, commanding "o
Thirteenth cavalry, has heavy patrols having his first conference with New
out and two troops of cavalry at Qlb- ton D. Baker, the new Secretary of
son's ranch, fifteen miles west
Carranza customs guards at tho
border gates three miles south of
Columbus, Und dug a few rlflo pits
for tho fifty Carrniua aoldlors, who
fled Plonms when Villa appeared in
tho vicinity several days ago. bandits, somo omciais ueciareu 10-
Lleutenunt Gastlcman, officer of day that It was' u grave question
tho day, turned out all tho. men re- whothor such a raid aB that on Co
malnlng In tho camp. Shrieking bat- lumbua was not sufficient evidence of
tie cries, tho Mexicans in overwhelm- tho Inability of tho Carranza govern
ing numbers, rushed 'savagely into rnont to deal with tho situation, to
the town north of tho railroad tracks, warrant sondlug Amorlcan troops
A courier was sent to Mujqr Llmlsloy over tho lino, -
nt Gibbons ranch, fifteen miles cast, The raid started a new agitation
to bring up tho troops posted there. In Congr.ess, where thoso who. have
Tho first volley of rifles volco all tho opposed the administration's Mexican '
townspeople
Vllla la said to havo been seen by tack yras proof of their ropeatod
Bovcrul Americans directing bis raonr declaration that tho Carranza gov
Ho cut tho telegraph wires cast to eminent was unable to deal with
El Pasb to prevent any call for Am- the situation and a fulfljimont of their
erican troops stationed there. Tho predictions that another outrage like
telephones also wont out ot comnits- tho recent Oust massacre, In which
Btolu - J slxtepn or more Americans wero klll-
J." J. Moore, a merchant on a ranch ed by Villa bandits when th'ey held
one mile west, was killed. lup a train, was only a question of
a riiiiuffmir driving an automobllo time.
-roith nn rci Pnftn license, name un-I
knowu, was killed and body burned,
nnlonel Slocum announced that
four American soldiers had been kill-
ed and seven wounded.
Fourteen
, !
dend Mexicans wero wounded near
tho army camp. (
Villa's men apparently camo over
tho lino at tlila point, and the Car
man goldlcrs wgro reported to have
Joined llirtn, deploying In open ord-,
er. Villa fcent them up a deep ditch
runnlnft'up from thohord'T and par
alleling tho road skirting tho United
Slates army cump, tho custom house
mid tho railroad station.
Tho fight liegnn horc In town and
II.a rnmlllnii .! A T. Yltrrrra tiainma
officer, nnd that of L. Jager, station
accnt oi mo El i'aso a tsouinern rau-
road, wero In tho midst of It, but no
mcr ot ellllcr wns , hu M
- ""' " """ """" """ "" "
mo nana.
Five Soldiers Killed.
El Paso, Tex., March 9. Five
American soldiers were killed In the
battlo at Columbus, N. M., with Mex
ican banditti according to a messago '
received early today nt tho general
olllces of Hie El Paso and Southwest
ern railroad In El -Paso.
Tho pumper for tho railroad at CO-
- conductor to cut the train In two and
proceed on thq locomotive to Colum
bus,' or aa near as he could without
endangering hlmsolf and crew, to as--certain
further facts. The train crew
' '
IU UV Ol-Mb l I.VVUVU.
Serious Aspect.
Washington, March 9. First re
ports of the Mixlcan raid on Colum
bus, N. M., were rccolved at the White
IloufiO while PresMent Vllson was
War. OIllcialB admitted that tho raid
put a very serious aspect on tho Mex
ican situation.
AVhllo the policy of tho adminis
tration so fur has been to look to the
Carranza forces to deal with tho
Policy oponiy cnargeu uiai mo ai-
Itod Top.
The beat grade of Red Top Seed
on, the market.
W. B- ELLIS ft BRO.
-i -
BERLIN WILLING
TO FOLLOW LAW
BERNBTORFF SAYS GERMANY
WILL MODIFY IF ALLIES '
. WILL DO SO.
PRESENTS MEMORANDUM
Setting Forth German Position And
Hopes Americans Will Ap
' predate Position.
Washington, March 8. Germany
today made a further explanation to
the United States of the position it
has taken In regard to armed mer
chant vessels of the Entente Allies.
Count von Bcrnstorff handed Sec
retary Lansing a formal memoran
dum which, after reviewing the
events leading up to Germany's re
cent decision to treat armed mer
chant ships as auxiliary cruisers,
conceded that existing international
law does not regulate the use of sub-
marines, indicated a willingness 10 ;Bnor taik by Mr Travis, Miss M. E. ' agentt w, w. Browder, and believing
conduct undersea warfare in accord-1 Sweeney made a-, -forty-five minute that wnen the farmers as a class are
ance with the law prevailing at the talk on "Home Management." She benefited the whole county is bene
outbreak of the -war providing Great 'dwelt very forcibly upon the need of flted therefore be it
Britain and her allies would regard Domestic Science in our public school. Resolved, that we hereby petition
me same laws, aim exprcaaeu ju,
hope that the people of the United
States, remembering the long-existing
friendship relations between the
two nations would appreciate the
German position.
The memorandum was submitted'
to President Wilson shortly after ltd
receipt. It will be considered, to
gether with other documents from
the German Government, In deter
mining what shall be the next step
ot the United States In the submarine
negotiations. There was every Indi
cation that the Administration would,
be In no hurry to announce a stand
as to the new policy ot thq Central
European Powers, or to pass finally
upon Germany's latest proposal for
a settlement of the Lusltanla case.
Echoes of President Wilson's vlc-
tory In the fight to end agitation In
Congress over the armed ship ques
tlon was heard to-day on both sides
ot the capltol. In the Senate, Sena
tor Stone, chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee, made a state
ment, after a conference with the
President, announcing that because
of the chance that his remarks might
be mlconstrued abroad, he would not
make a speech he had prepared for
delivery to-morrow. He referred to
the difficulties 1y which the Execu
tive was besot, and declared that
President Wilson's supreme vlsh was
to avoid the calamity of war.
On tho House side several members
asked leave to extend In the record
their remarks of yesterday, on the
tabling of tho McLemore armed ship
resolution and Minority Leader Mann
took occasion to suggest that some
had voted on both sides of the ques
tion on the last ballots so they could
explain their positions to constitu
ents on cither side. Representative
Fess, ot Ohio, began a reply, but Mr.
Mann shut off further argument by
a point of order,
From both tho White House and
the State Department there came
during the day emphatic denials ot a
rumor that tho Administration ltse.lt
Intended to warn American citizens
oft armed ships. At the State De
partment It was explained that it was
for the citizens themselves who took
passage on armed ships not entering
American waters to determine wheth
er they were boarding vessels armed
defensively or offensively and the
nrtturo of the lustructlous under
which ship captains W'ould act In the
presence ot a submarine. An offen
sively armed ship which enters Amer
ican waters, it was said, would be re
garded as a war vessel and would
not be allowed to remain more than
twenty-four hours. In foreign wa
ters, however, It Is no concern ot this
Government how ships are armed.
To My Customers,
Having formed' a partnership with
R. L. Altord, for the conduct ot the
grocery business, It becomes impera
tive that all outstanding accounts be
settled at once, therefore In order
to clean up the books, I urgently re
quest that you, who know yourselves
to be Indebted to me call and settle
not later than March 1st.
Yours respectfully)
E. D. (PUP) THOMAS.
CHAUTAUQUA IS
' GREAT SUCCESS
FARMERS MEETING AT DEAVER
DAM KOTII INTERESTING
AND , INSTRUCTIVE
TWO HUNDRED ATTEND
Adopt Resolution TliAhkirig Jno- H.
Ilnrncs and Endorsing Work of
Demonstrator Browder.
Beaver Dam, Ky., March 3. Tho
Ohio County Farmers Chautauqua
held here yesterday was one of the
most interesting and in many respects
tho most beneficial, that ever conven
ed in this section. The 200 farmers
who attended seemed to- take great
interest in all tho proceedings, and
the promoters of this work were well
pleased. I
The meeting was called to order
by .President W. E. Travis at 10:00
a. m., Thursday, March 2d. After a
- From 11:15 t0 11:45, Mr. M. U.
Hughes spoke on the "Use, Growth
and Benefit of Crimson Clover," after
which the President appointed the
following committee on resolutions:
W. A. Casebler, S. L. Stevens, Dr. P. i
T. (WUlls. Noon.
At l:00p. m. Mr. Elliot gave
qulte an Instructive talk on "Growth, bers present.
Culture and Use of Apples," which At 1:15 Mr. M. O. Hughes spoke
was followed by questions from the for one hour on "Farming as a Bus
farmers and answers. by Mr. Elliot, lness," and "Diversity of Crops on
At 1:45 Miss M. E. Sweeney talked the Farm." At 2:20 reading by Miss
for 30 minutes on the "Needs ot the Geneva Taylor. At 2:25 W. W.
Housewife on the Farm," and tried Browder spoke for thirty minutes on
torshow and explain to the farmers "Organization 'and Self-Helps tor the
how-easy it would be and with how Farmer." This was followed by
little expense to place many conven- short talks by Messrs. Henry Plrtle,
lences In their homes for their A. M. Smith and others, after which
wives. She said the average flftyacre Mr. S. L. Stevens announced that the
farmer has $585 worth of labor-
saving machinery on the farm, while
his wife had a sewing machine. 2:15
vocal goto by Mrs. W. C. Frank, read
ing by Mrs. W. E. Travis. 2:30 to
3:20, Mr. E. S. Good, spoke on "Feed
ing Beef Cattle by the Most Improv
ed M thods." The sum and sub
stance of his talk was that the real
pay In fattening beef cattle was in
the manure for fertilizing purposes.
At 3:20 Mr. M. O. Hughes spoke for
45 minutes on "Fattening Cattle and
"Drainage." As to fattening cattle
,W...MQW. WW . I
he agreed almost verbatim with Mr.
Good. On drainage, he, told us that
the land of Ohio county war very
much undervalued; that It was as
good land as he had seen sell In the
State of Ohio for from $100 to $300
A.-- 1 . l.l It...
per acre, m- umcicuco uciug iuab.m curu imrues, uuu uiucu iuau un
we must get the water out of our jury make a through investigation.
land: 4:00 p. m., adjourned to meet
at 10:00 a. m. Friday, March 3rd.
Friday, March 3d, 10:00 a. m., Mr;
Elliot In a one hour's talk on 'Insect
and Fungus Pests of the Fruits,"
went into a very minute and scienti
fic explanation of all these pests, tell
ing how they worked on the trees
and how to get rid of them. He said
to make ap orchard pay It ought to
have three sprayings during the sea
son. 11:00 a. va., Mr. A. S. Good
entertained us for 50 minutes upon
"Scientific Methods of Feeding Hogs"
nsertlng that experiments showed
that hogs must be fed a balanced ra
tion, and not corn altogether. Noon.
1:,00 p. m., Committee on resolu
tions reported as follows:
We, jyour committee on resolu
tlons, beg to submit the following
report:
1st. Wherea3, tho -members of
this club and the farmers In general
throughout this county are much in
need ot information concerning soils,
crops, stocks and fruits;
2nd, Whereas, the health, happi
ness and comfort ot our homes de
pend so much upcn knowledge of
domestic science and the Installation
of homo conveniences;
3d. Whereas, good music and re
citations so throughly quality the
mind for the reception of needed
Ideas and solid facts, and
4th. Whereas, wo so much need
ed a suitable pjice In 'which to hold
thla mld-wlnter Chautauqua, there
fore be It
Resolved, 1st, that we are under
deep and lasting obligations to the
talented speakers who have so ably
I
nnd clearly pointed tho way for much
hotter soils, crops, stocks and fruits
land who have Inspired us to greater
atalnments In agricultural pursuits.
I 2nd. Thnt wo appreciate and recog
nize Miss Sweeney, as an able teacher
of Domestic Science which we rec
ommend being taught In our graded
schools and as a splendid suggestor
for much needed home conveniences
which we hope will bo placed in each
home at the earliest possible time.
3d. That we heartily' thank the
ladies for, tho good music, songs and
reclatlona which we have enjoyed,
and
4th. . That we hereby acknowledge
the kindness of Mr. Jno. H. Barnes
for the use of his commodious opera
house during this session, and ap
preciate the interest he has taken in
behalf of the farmers ot this com
munity. ..Respectfully submitted,
W. A. CASEBIER,
S. L. STEVENS,
P. T. WILLIS,
Committee.'
Resolutions adopted as submitted
in addition, the following resolution
was offered:
Whereas, we feel that the farmers
of 0hlo county, Kentucky, have been f
greatly benefited by and through the'
tfnowledee and work of our county i
fhn nhln Cniintr FIsnal Court to nav
the entire sum of $600 necessary to
8ecure the services ot the said county
agent for the year 1916, out of the
COunty levy. I
Resolutions adopted without a
dissenting vojee and at this time
there were by actual count 125 mem-
A. S. of E. would meet at Hartford
on Friday and Saturday, March 10th
and 11th
Adjourned.
SOCD7.TY GAMBLING
Night Riding' 'and Princeton Lynh
lng Party Referred to '
Princeton, Ky., March 7. The
largest crowd ever assembled on the
opening day of circuit court in this
county greeted Judge Carl Henderson '
nf Mnrlnn whn fnr thn first tlmfi nlncn I
MWW, .,w ... v.w ... . .. .
his election last November is holding
court here. Judge Henderson's in
structions to the grand jury called
special attention to all kinds of gam
ing, especially society gambling,
where women play for valuable prizes
I i J .1 .! 1.J 41. ... .l
"Night riding" also was scored by
Judge Henderson. He declared that
the conditions In Caldwell would In
the near future be similar to those
existing in Mexico unless the grand
juries ferreted out the lawmakers
and those guilty were convicted.
The jurors were reminded ot and
Instructed to make an Investigation
of tho mob that took from the county
jail last year a negro and hanged him.
The jailer ot the county and tho po- (
llcemen of Princeton were also
scored In this connection.
1
CHURCH TO GIVE AWAY
1,(500 LOAVES OF BREAD
Chicago, March 4. Ono thousand
loaves ot bread will bo gl von, away at
the services ot Immanuel Baptist
church here to-morrow as part ot an
adyertlslng campaign to attract peo
ple to the church, the Rev Johnstone
Myers, the pastor, announced to-day.
Dr. Myers said tho following blblcal
quotation will be printed on a label
attached to each:
"Jesus said unto them I am the
bread ot lite; he that cometh unto
mo shall never hunger."
'
Your Chance To Bur Groceries.
Other business interests requiring
my attention, I am offering my en
tiro stock ot groceries to the public
at actual cost. Sale now In full
swing and it you tall to drop In and
take advantage ot this opportunity
you are punishing your pocket book.
Everything , goes tor cash,
U, S. CARSON,
Hartford Ky.
tu..
ASH STANLEY TO
STAND BY THEM
MINERS OF WESTERN KENTUCKY"
MEET OBSTACLES IN THE
LEGISLATURE.
CONVENE AT LOUISVILLE
Senator Leach Says Operators fav
Control Bearer Dam Mea
on Committee.
Louisville, Ky., MaTrch 8. The mi
ners of Western Kentucky, In con
vention here, this afternoon decided
to call on Governor Stanley to aid
them In getting through the Leglsla
ture two bills In which they are es
pecially Interested. This decision
was reached after the miners had
heard of the difficulties ot getting
legislation beneficial to miners'
through the present Legislature.
Senator J. A. Leach, of Ohio coun
ty, said the operators had such a
grip on the Legislature that it was
Impossible to make any progress
with legislation favored by the
miners.
W. O. Smith, an international or
ganizer, said the miners are weary
of seeing the Legislature legislate In
the Interests of canary birds, black
birds and cattle, forgetting legisla
tion In the Interest of human be
ings. Reference was made to the weigh
ing bill and the guard bills which the
miners are advocating, and the as
sertion was made that Gov. Stanley
could use his Influence to put these
bills through.
Smith asked for a resolution call
ing the Governor to aid the miners la
theirefforts to secure this legislation,
Mr. Smith recalled the fact that when
Mr. Stanley was In Congress he oftea
expressed wllllngncs's to come 'to Ken-4
tucky to help any miner. Mr. Smith
said ho now had an opportunity to
help thousands of Kentucky miners.
J. R. Jarvls, George Baker and
Wes Ames were named on the com
mittee to draft the resolution.
One Is a Democrat, one a Repub
lican and one a Socialist.
The bills favored by the miners
are Senate bills 76, 94 and 114. One
provides that the ' coal operators
shall report to the State Commis
sioner of Mines each month the quan
tity of coal they have mined and the
amount paid the miners. The other
bills provide for safety appliances.
- The most Important work of yes
terday's meeting was the. selection
of a Wage Scale Committee to con
fer, at some later date, with tho coal
operators to agree upon a, wage scale
for the coming year. The commit
tee selected consists of the four of
ficers ot the association Robert Pol
lock, president; H. H. Vincent, sec
retary; W. W. Duncan, vice presi
dent, and George Baker, Internation
al board member.and John T. Maine,
ot Beaver Dam; Richard Baker, of
Beaver Dam; W. C. Hopgood, ot Hen
derson; John Render, of Graham,
and Wes Ames, of Dekoven. As soon,
as the New York conference is con
cluded the committee will nsk for a
conference with the mine operators.
It, Is hoped that this conference may
tako place the last of this week or the
first of next wee,k.
TWO MEN KILLED IN
FIGHT WITH WHALE
New Bedford, Mass., March 5.
Two men ot the whaling bark Alice
Knowles, of this city, were killed la
an encountor with a whale off the
coast of Africa, according to advices
rqcelved here today.
A private dispatch from St. Hele
na says that the bark has put Into,
that Island to recruit ship, having
lost the mate, Antonio T. Plna, and a
sailor. Fldlly Cecelia.
The men were in a small boat pur
suing a whale that had been harpoon
ed, when tho quarry turned and at
tacked them. The mate and Cecelia
were crushed by a blow from the
whale's flukes. Other men In the
boat hero hurled Into the sea, but
wore rescued by the crew ot another
boat.
For Sale.
Five horse power Stlckney Gasoline
Engine, good as new. Highest grade
engine made. Will sell cheap.
D, O. YOUNO,
35t4 f. Beaver Dam, Ky,
u. ,
