i " i in.- i inrr .. a.ak. .., um, -i m f i man w i n i.n i... i.. i.. , . --ytti niiir.. - i i imhii .in., i . n irir i n i i i -nrir "a. j-UU'ij.
j
'if
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1916.
NUMBER 10
of
,y,
lie
,n-
at
ll.-
or-in-im-
It
ore
18t"
c!y
inr-
TWO SONS WILL
BECOME PARTNERS
April 1st, James R., and Wingate
Join Forces With "Dad" in
Lumber Business
On April first, James R. Moore
head will become co-partner with
his two sons, James R. Jr., and
Wingate in the management of
the lumber business established
by himself thirty years ago. The
name of the new firm will be the
James R. Moorehead Lumber
Company.
Thirty years ago last Saturday
Mr. Morehead began the busi
ness which will continue under
the manage nt of his two sons.
"Get it at Mom-'-d's" has been
a familiar sign for more than a I After his time expired as post
DEATH OF II. W. TURNER
Former Citizen and Postmaster
of Lexington Dies in Al
buquerque. A telegram was received here
Sunday morning announcing the
death of H. W. Turner at his
home in Albuquereque, New
Mexico, Saturday. His death
was due to apoplexy.
Mr. Turner was born in Wil
ton, England, and was seventy
four years of age. He came to
this country with his parents
when eight years of age. He had
served as city marshal of this
city, and later appointed post
master in vi'VnrVi mrw r?fv Tioi
served eight years 1876-1884.
BUSY SESSION FOR
CITY DADS
CORDER DEFEATED
BY LARGE SCORF
quarter of a century along the
master, he moved to Kansas City
highways leading to Lexington, j where he lived for twelve years
and approved by a steadily grow-Eight vears aS he moved to A1
ing clientele who ner failed to ; buquerque.
recei-'- honest st-ment re- Besides his wife, who was for
garding their purchases. ,merly Miss Fleta Carroll of this
The "Boys" are chips from the,city he is survived by one son,
old block. Both have had some Carroll, of Albuquerque ; two sis
experience in lumber from thejters- Mrs- Emma Taubman of
stump to the yard, and will, nothis citv5 Mrs- Josephine Swit
doubt with their youth and en-jzer of Kansas City and one
thusiasm push the business to j brother, Edwin Turner of Kan
a still greater height. We have;sas City,
faith that they will do so. The funeral was held in Al-
James T. Kinkead who has ouquerque luesciay
been connected with the yard for
the past eight years, will retire
April 1st. Mr. Kinkead's ser
vices will b nissed by the new
Appointed Judges and Clerks for
Election... Other Important
Business Transacted
The council met Monday night
in regular session with all the
councilmen present and Mayor
Taubman presiding. The follow
ing matters were acted upon:'
The Methodist Church through
E. J. McGrew petitioned the
council for permission to change
the curb line of the sidewalk
area on the Southwest corner of
their church property. The curb
line will be drawn in Sl- feet,
and will eliminate the most dan-
Showed Exellent Teamwork and
Basket Shooting Welch
and Hays Starred
The boys' basketball five of
Lexington High School met the
Corder five Thursday night and
"snowed them under" by
the enormous score of 58 to 25.
The local lads started off like
a flash, sweeping down the field
with the ball and throwing sev
eral field goals before the bal'
was ever in Corder territory.
At no period in the contest was
the score of the youngsters from
the eastern part of the county
KELLY POOL
W. M. A. CLOSES SEASON
WITH A VICTORY
Candidate For Secretary of State
of Missouri
Kelly Pool, candidate for the
Democratic nomination for sec
retary of State of Missouri is in
Lexington today in the interest
..1. i. J1. . 1 i mi
gerous corner in Lexington. Per-!cwse 10 ine nome aeienciers. me
mission was granted, and the !first half ended with the red and
work will be done at their own iquintet on top: figures 20
expense supervised by II. C. Rog- to
ers The entire Lexington team
An ordinance was passed re- gave a classy exhibition of the
garding the erection and main-!indoorPastlmebutthetwostars
tainine of bill boards. The or-:cf the 2ame were the two flashy
dinance reads as follows: That
no person, partnership or cor-
i
A
i
'
..
poration shall hereafter erect or
forwards, Welch and Hays I
Welch especially starred for the of his candidacy. Mr. Pool is a
High School. He tossed 14 most capable and deserving
Candidate for Sheriff
Manoah Edwards of Higgins-
maintain or cause to be erected field ad 3 free throws, gentleman, worthy of the sup
or maintained any public bill'scorimorethaalf the point- port of every Democratic voter.
ior nis team, several oi his pinun uu huiiuiwuuii uji ou
field goals were of the sensation- j overwhelming majority, and
al variety and were applaudec'jtnen his election with votes to
Main street in the Citv of Lex-!vodferiouslv bv the School sPare.
jington between the east line 0fistudents- as was almost every,
the intersection of Highland 1 6U"U "a limuc lue "omt, council rroceeaings
board or bill boards within thirty
feet of the property line on any
ipart of any property adjoining
Avenue with Main street and the
ville, announces in this issue of west line of the intersection of
team.
Much credit
management as he was a most-phe Intelligencer his candidacy (Twentieth
obliging and efficient employee. , for the nomination for sheriff of street.
His many friends hope that heLafayette County, subject to the
will engare in other business 1 action of the voters at the Demo.
that will keep him in Lexington. cratic primary, Tuesday, August
il, 1916.
i The city council met Wednes-
Is due Coach
"Horse Doctors" Beaten By
Large Score In Final
Game
! The Wentworth Basketball
jteam closed the 1916 season Sat
urday nignt witn a sweeping
victory over the Kansas City
Veterinary College. Having lost
both games played on their re
cent road trip, the soldier boys
were back in the form they dis
played when they defeated Kem
per a few weeks ago, and the
city lads had no chance against
the excellent team work and bas
ket shooting of the locals.
W. M. A. started off like a
flash and tossed a field goal un
expectedly after the game be
gan, the visitors soon tied the
score; the home team then left
them in the rear and at the end
of the first half, they were lead
ing 15 to 7.
After the regular five had
cinched the game for Went
worth, subs replaced all of the
regulars, except Captain Mur
phy, whose stellar work in shoot
ing goals added many points to
the local score column. Mur
phy, Dick and Gardner tossed
the majority of Wentworth's
goals. The only part of the
game that the Vets outclassed
the local boys was in making
free throws. And at the last of
"II ! . ! . 1 I w
street with Mainmens ior rounding tne Doyr !of city Engineer Swift for re-!
mto tneir present lorm. for ir , pairing the washout on 17th St. the game they seemed to lose
The following judges and lne nrst games of the seasorAt a previous meeting a report their accuracy in that line for
clerks were appointed for the, U1U ,JUL lldve uie teamworK. by the city engineer was reject-1 several were missed
city election to be held Tuesday, 11 throwing accuracy and thr ied, as the estimate made was not
April 4, 1916. . "gnung spirit mat tney produc- found on improvements of a per-
Fined for Assault
Earl Corum, who lives near
the summit mine, was taken be
fore Justice Clyde Wright Fri
day afternoon on a charge of
attempt to assault his wifeV
niece, who is only thirteen years
old. The act occured Saturday
night at Corum's home where
the little girl was employed. She
returned to her home in the
South Side Addition and report
ed Corum to her parents who
f wore out a warrant for Corum's
i.uest. Corum was fined $f 0
and cost.
The final result of the contest
was: Wentworth, 47; Vets, 22.
With the closing of the Basket-
Rev. R. N. Allen left yester
day for Marshfield, Mo., where
he will conduct the funeral ser
vices of Miss May King at that
place.
Mr. Edwards' democracy wai First Ward: Judges Eol"ert,ecl on 5ne court "day night. manent nature. The estimate
"bred in the bone." He has lived Johnson. J. W. Coulter. Peter I numerous iouis on Doth side : submitted Wednesday covers a Ihnli eann i,4 Wllnwi, w.
in this County for the pastlMallot, Sr., Martin Colins, jr., I marked the contest, about 15 'concrete retaining wall and fill, I are now turning their attention
thirty-five years and voted reg- Chas. Phillips, C. A. Bledsoe. be,n2 made by both sides. Joe and upon this the council order jto the one great game, the Na
ularly for the good of the cause, j Clerks H. L. Starkebaum, !IIowe officiated at the game to the work to be done as soon asjtional pastime,' baseball. It is
He possesses the essential qual- Thomas Rosewell, M. E. Easter, the satisfaction of all concerned the weather will permit. j a that W M A has some irood
ifications demanded for the prop-'John McNamara. 1 'material in that line and it is
er performance of the duties of ' Second Ward: Judges G. C. Announces For Sheriff J- A. Scarlett entered upon his honed thev will nrodurp a siivP
hentt together with the deter-, Schawe, Harry Blee, br., L. A. jn another column of this is- (luties Monday in the men s
mination to perform them. Mr. :Golladay, 0. W. Wilcoxon, W. F. sue 0f the Intpllitrpnrpr fW in. department of Ladeson and
Edwards solicits the support of iWeis, J. D. Thompson. nears the formal announopmpnt v'einstein. Mr. Scarlett enjoys
the Democratic voters, and as- Clerks T. W. Willis, Roy At- 0f Robert T Sim nf T pvino-tnn a vde acquaintance in and about
sures them that if nominated terbury, Lewis Galle, Mike Elee. 'as a candidate for Sheriff sub- ex'n&ton' and no doubt. will
?.nd elected he will not be found! Third Ward: Judges Pierre Iject to the action of the Demo-!prove a valuable addition to the
wanting in conducting the af- Mavel, Fred Jenkins,, John Bur-cratic party at the primary, isales forces of this popular store,
fairs of the office. 'ris, Chas. Barron, D. T. Bogie Tuesday, August 1, 1916. '
Lawrence Fuhr. j Mr. Sims needs no introduc-i
Clerks George W. Carter, W.,tion to the people of Lexington!
winner.
Mrs. Chas. G. Russell of Clin
ton, Mo., is the guest of Mr.
Russell's mother, Mrs. Sallie D.
Russell, south of town.
Albert Kimmick went to Kan
sas City Sunday morning to seejV. Curtis, Milt Price, Earl Wal-
his father, Leo Kimmick, who is lace.
Mary's Hospital for
in the St.
treatment.
Fourth Ward: Judges Leon
and in the neighboordhood of
Mayview and Odessa; but to j
Democrats living in other parts i
msmssssmttsstssw
II ... rjyr "'i t-t
I IT SURE IS TOUGH
H ti
j-b to buy bill of lumber for some permanent improve-
fl ment, 4-'i
i j, i ...
Roy, James Short, Sr., George 01 ine county, we wish to say
!W. Simons. James Rosewall. inat Mr- ims 1S a "fe-long
... ,
! George Gaffin, John Rosewall.
Clerks John A Mosby, Chas. .
jGuilue, John W. Fox, Fred How-i
ell. i
The voting place in the Third i
Ward will be in Chas. Barron's j
'grocery store, instead of the i
iLoomis Drug Store.
Democrat and in every way'
qualified to discharge the im-'
portant duties of this important :
office. He has lived in Lexing-'
ton for the past fourteen years, '
moving here from a farm near !
Odessa. He respectfully re- j
quests a careful consideration of
his candidacy, assuring the
On motion of Mr. Neet a side-jvoters that if nominated he will
walk was ordered to be put down (0 whatever he can for the !
on Eleventh Street from Utt ; election of the entire ticket, and
Brothers to the Booker resi-!jf elected, discharge the duties!
dence- of the office without fear or fav- i
On motion of Mr. Buellens, Jas. or. j
R. Moorehead was granted per- j
mi.s.siun io repaii ruauueu u , Lexington to Vote on Local Op
ley in rear of his lumber yard, at 1
to buy bill of lumber for some permanent improvement,
.i and then make the discovery, after one has begun con
s' ? struction, and that by the exercise of a little more painstaking
1 care a little further investigation he could have bought
- decidedly better material, at no preater cost.
if you would avoid this disheartening experience, come
here for your lumber.
It is ever our aim to Rive each customer such qualified
satisfaction that there will be not the ghost of
"The Yard that Saves and Satisfies."
; LAMBERT UIMKEU COMPANY
i? JOHN J.PRICE, Manager. i
li is
4 i- 4- iii 4-4$ 4"-M4"44- -W4-4 s(,- w4
his own expense, provided there
were no objections from other
property owners in the alley.
On motion of Mr. Steele, a fire
plug was ordered for the Price
addition.
On motion of Mr. Howard two
lights were ordered to be placed
on Sixth Street.
On motion of Mr. Howard, the
city engineer was ordered to sur
vey and estimate the cost of a
retaining wall and fill on Seven
teenth street.
Council adjourned to meet
Wednesday, March 8, 19 1G.
A' petition is being circulated
in Lexington which will be pre
sented to the city council asking
for a local option election some
time in the early summer. As
only 140 signers are required,
the election may be considered
a certainty.
John Warder left Sunday morn
ing for Kansas City, where he
has accepted a position with the
Loose-Wiles Biscuit Company.
A. J. Nolting went to Sedalia
Monday to spend the day on
business.
Spring Fashions
ARE CLEVERLY PORTRAYED IN THE NEW WOOLTEX
SUITS AND COATS
They are now on display in our Ready-to-Wear Department
and until you see them, you cannot realize how distinctively
new and charming they really are.
WOOLTEX GARMENTS, embody Skillful variations 0: the
season's principle style features.
Then, too, their designers have added just the right ornamentation,
Embroidered Silk or linen col
lars, touches of braid and silk
trimmings, all so artistic and
harmonious.
HARMONY OF DESIGN
is but ONE of the many pl.?asing
features of those famous gar
ments. WE HAVE A SPLENDID COL
LECTION OF DESIRABLE
MODELS, ALL OF WHICH
CORRECTLY PORTRAY THE
NEW MODES.
REMEMBER
if 7)
ill
y 66-J0
TJirrTi --.i..: a.
Only pure wool and pure Silk
Fabrics enter into the making of
Wooltex Garments in spite of
the scarcity of unadulterated
fabrics.
YOU
Be one of the first to see these
Garments.
