LOTG GRAPHIC
Demiiig Air
100 peret. Pure
Breathing Text
LWmg Water
M.t Pun
Ooveraa't Teat
A LFVK PAPER IN A LIVK TOWN"
73
BE
VOLIME XIV, NTMBE3 XXVTH.
1 5 AMEffiCANS KILLED AND 9 WOUNDED WHEN 1 000
MEXIC&3 UNDER GEN. VILLA MAKE EARLY MORN
INQ RiilD ON BORDER TOWN; 100 MEXICANS KILLED
y.KGnc.
FIERCE BATT1E l.7-.ff 0C
Mexicans Loot Store and Bun tf! JLdt bpubtd With Great
Lou for Raider; U. S. Acnm Border
Into Mexico; Mmap Kwcn
BOLD ATTEMPT TO LOOT fUJLC2 WAS A FAILURE
U.
S. Cavalrymen Awakend fan Ebj CfMi Courage and
Fine Marlumanship AfMMl CVwt;t-sJ Rsmched
Their Equipment tI CcSct
Twenty-four Americana wen t3
led or wounded when m band af MMt
1 tioo Mexican raiders under the peflatuid net escspe the beck wujf, fenth-
i.nnl command il' tlen. Fmneiaeo
el Ice fell iihiii hendpuurtera eamp ot
i lu 1 hirtff nt li I'. K. Cuvalry and the
village of Columbus at which the
tuwp is located two milei from the
international border, end thirty-two
miles almost due south of Dealing.-j
A- near us could be estimated ItutX
nielli, about 100 Mexicans had been
killed or wounded in ihe treet ofced and the Mexican from the hik
Columbus und in the running ngtti ter af tha aid grade were ousted a n.l
that carried the American soldier they begun to engage the Mexii-aiis
I Helve miles into Mexico. The Amer-. who had entered tha town from the
icaii dend are: tt. But before organising, the sol-
C. C. Miller. dniKpst : J. T. Deaii.ldleni had a Brut for their lives bc
KTneer: T. Ritchie, hotel proprie.fn they could aecure their eiuip
tor: Mrs. M. .lames, wire of South- nunt, from which they were separ
vc stern puiuM-r; .1. J. Moore, farmer; ' ated by roving bands of Mexicans,
three iinidentiHed quests at the hotel: Then wen no guns .and ammunition
Sen-emu Mark A. Ibibbs, Machine in the quartan and the ma'ehine guns
tiu'n I'luliain; Corporal Harry Win- wen out off ky the Mexicans. The
well. Troop (1: Private John Butler, aoldien, howerer made a break under
Troop F; John T. Kindvall, Troop K fire for their, equipment and, nwin
Corporal Paul Simon. Bund: Sergeant to good luck nnd the ignorance of
John Nieverfeell, Rnud: Private Fred tha enemy, eaenred it without nerious
A (Iriflln, Troop K. Umm. Tha Brat machine gun brouuht
The wounded are: . Mtion -jwide the railroad track
Mrs. 0. S. Park, wife of editoa of t here that the ma-
Coluiubua Courier and telephone op- M f" WP "t their men. The
eralor; J. J. Moore. Southwestern Mexloana retwnUdup and over the
pumper: A. D. Frost, merchant : lieut. biU lo tha west where their horses
C. C. Benson: Cor,)oral Mieheal Bar- piekeUd on the parade ground,
maxel, Machine Oun Platoon: Private The first light of day wae just break
Jesse P. Tavlnr. Troop F; Private tog ad ho aoldien advancing saw
James Vernier. Troop M; Private John f"niy forming. They opened up
Yannwgh, Troop K: Private Theo-1 witb'inachine guns and rifles at Will
.lore Katrorke. Tr.s.p I.. No miaainft yd.fnd the tangle of dead horses,
so far as can I aseertaiid. Hare oqiiir-nt, and dead and dying men,
not lieen checked up h. yet. ! teatiled after tha battle to the deadly
The battle oened alM.ul 435 0'. of the Americans. The Mexi.ans
dock vestenlav morning when tha hegan a rapid, though orderly retreat.
Mexicans had lake, up poaitione a-i throwing out a nar guard. Fro...
long Ihe old grade road that paeaea then on the Bght was a mnniii one.
throuuh Columbus just west of tha TompUiia with two Inw-ps
station, and Ihe cavalry headquart- following- the niden cloaely. 1 .
ers and another party in the atnet trail to tha hordar wa. marked b
in from of the Hoover llouae, being dead hones, rules of equipment, ann
the main street ,.r the vilalge. The loot from tha atone which the ra.d
Mexicans hod crossed the intern. ,crs had packed on hones,
tional. boundary just west of the gate Tha Mexican got the surprise of
where troops are always stationeo. their Una, when IJeut. Benson, who
they had practically surrounded the was stationed at the international
village before the outposts and sen- gats with a troop, took them on th.
trys wen alarmed. In a few oiin- flank. Tha lieutenant heard the Hi
ntes following the killing of two of the ing and goewaing its cause, deploye.i
sentries, the Mexican were iu every his men aa skirmishers along ihe
part of the town and eamp. It waa border. He held bis Are until the en
a complete surprise. From the di- emy wen almost on b'm when his n
reetion of the Hoover House Ihe Mex- poured la a deadly fln. Eight, en
iean advanced in force, shooting as , dead wen counted at this point, or
they came. From the west, the rid- coarse the Mexicans carried off us
era in the shelter of Ihe old grade, many of their wonnded as they could,
embankment poured a heavy fire into Than wen fonr collision with the
the ramp with, machine guna and a raiders after crossing the internal-pound
rnd Are gun. The Mexi- ttonai ' line, and the dead Mexicans
cans advancing from the east found wen found heaped up after even-
no opposition: the v entered Ihe stores
thev found. They gathered in front
r th Commercial Hotel and ordered 1
'avecyM . of the Hjuildiug. The
nronrietot end such of kin guests iin
end a4he top of the entrenee steps.
The men to be. pejtj.were, owlert d
to advanee. they, were hot down
ae aooa aa they reached ; (be. at reel,
and Um hotel tu aoon in flames.
With the hotel, went five other small
buildings near it in the heart nl'
the town.
Meanwhile the eoldiem had advau-
que of them. The Mexicans drifted
tepidly south, letting a rear gunm
avtion, until the earns to some flat
DKMINQ, LUNA COUNTY, NEW
, f.:n,i ry. where I hoy deployed in j The iiiirteriiiulcr wiijcoiim were busy rcireni begun. The two men dret nl Columbus, tli.xsirh it was person
t -u '. Major TouiikiilH saw the I'iiI- : hauling Innd of dend outride ihe Ingflhci'. nl lint more limn ten paces ' m i fccllv safe, j i nnlv because of
' I v nl' folnwiug Ihein further nnd he; camp and town where n great fun. in tilt- uiieertiiiii light of eurly dawn, ii' dil ti ik-c I'mm the border. Maid
ilrcw off to ii defensive position on I enil pyre was kindled. Altoin forty liul the Ainerietin was first. 1 ,-r- would hot dure tu pi mo fur
Illicit ground. Major Tompkins re- Mexicans were ereiiiiited in I hi-, tire. .Mr. nnd Mrs. .1. I., I recti w I :hiii their ret reals in the hills of
liuncd In emiip. The mesipiitc fiitl-idc I lie town iiml sin-ceded nl nn early hour in getting Mi xicn, where the Washington gov-
At Ihe lime the light oiened Ihcre ; nnd lo nnd licmss the border was still elenr nl' the town in their ear and eri.iiienl holds that they have asylum,
wer purls of four troop nnd the ma-; slreHii ilh Mexican dead and uniting in llciuing safely. Mr. j The soil of Mexico i indeed sacred.
eli:nc gun platoon in camp. Two of j wounded. Several of (he wounded (liccnwoo.l retimed to I'lilumlni-, 'VIum will Washington do and hiiv
' the t i onpn under Major Lindsley were I were t'ouiul, but ihhih of lliem made u iili the Iteming militia and volun- 'o? Will they still eonteud that
in emiip ut Moore's ranch on the line' n move or uttered a jitiuiid In dis- tee is. reports from tin iHirder ore un-
I'niir mile from Columbus-. These I ci se their locution. The eoynles will A. I). Frost was wounded in the irue? It is extreme tu miv that
two I roups were not engaged, in fuel I offieiule at the fn lie nil services of ehol while getting his wife ami i ;i ii.iui is 11 jingo when he and bis
did not know of Ihe fltclit until met 1 nil ny of tllelil. Ky luek lioiil o (the yomm hiiby into his ear mid iiwaio J family are threateiied with death in
by a parly of volunteers from ieiniuR! Auierieailk were killed or serionl in the arm jus) as he got the iniieli- , luir Im iU by foreiuu invaders.
I who had lieeu sent south short!)' af-1 wounded after the 'first fiht in the ine under way. lie arrived in Pern-; Yes, there was a pind little ficlit
ter ln I'kIiI by t'nl. Sloeuiu. Theuf-'eanip and town. The Mexican iim in u fainliiiK eoiiditinn. His ft t 'olundiii, thouh it was not s?r
lieer of the day wus the only eom-1 im.rksiuniisliip wan exeeedihuly poor. Hounds are mil fatal. snmdly eonducted by a president of
missioned ol'lleer in en nip, tile other tbtir fire Iwiujc direeted too liiuli. Terror struck thmuuh the hearts tie I'nited States, as some others
oflU'ers livinu in eotlniffs in nnd a-i Had it been otherwise, Villa certainly ' of men, wnmen, and cdiildren when lime been. Amerii'iui troops were
b.tiil I'olumhiis with their families, would have sueeeiled iu inakiie.' his the ritle shots mid hoarse eries in h kitiK for Villa nnd Villa was look-
. The ollleers joined their eoininiinilK as! tin eat good to kilt every man, worn- Spanish ranu throuuh the sln'cts. .uii; for a nVht. 1'hey both pot a
rapidly as possible. The men ot lite j an and ehild in Ihe (won. Il'ph fir- In the lulls of the firiiiv.' shouts of i chance at what they wanted. The
lirteeiith, however, knew thai it wus
hand n hand work, and with whet
led appetites at the tlrst siithl of blond
ivenl at the killing with keen relish.
No for a moment did they hesiulet or
fuller, and it is to their determined
resistance and ureal conniife.
...a. ii.e maKe o , uummus .mi ...
l........red eiliaena owe their exist-
i e. Olticers of the Thirteenth be-
.1 .1 . -ii -6 t- I i ;. . .
- . .1 . fMI -....I I .1
nee iiiiii tiua mieuneu nun every j
man, Homan and child in the villaKCj
-lii.iild he killed. Ihe bank and stoics
'"l"'1- "J" """"""ITT, B,,,li'""-i'l" i -Is the s,
Ilinr c.,i.ipn.e..t secured. ilia "gnt u ( 1lirri,il w ,, lmlk(.
away w.th only a very small part l ,l(Uiero.,in.n I urn over iu his grave!
ol his program ..ml bis losses will ,.,,... .,.,. i. . !
mcke Iiiiii conside,' well annthcr nl-
lack mi a minis d town. 1
II U believed (hat Villa relrealcd'
for I lie Itoca tlrau.le river and moun-;
tains southeast of the border. This
is a wild, wooded, ami well watered
country, and In dislodge hi... will be a
eon .idct'iihle iiliib rlakiug.
No! hint; wit, known lust niullt as lo
wl al mi'jlit follow as ii coiiseipieuce
In vesler.lav's buttle. At least no
prc'pa rat inns fnr an advance had been
made at a late hour al Cnlunthus. Il
is imw up In Washington. There are
, ,, i i i
hardlv gb troops on the liorder,
', n- .- i. . -.i.
to iiinke an cflectivc advance, with
., .... ... i , l f
Ihe possihililv ol having both fac-
.,.,.'
linns In Hull).
Mni iv T ni.i Lin irn vi.iuni 10 liliacR n garrisoned Aiiicri'.il. ' m iiiinci enu nniei, was ine gnie
J . "'"I1"" i',.,. she summon, d aid ami emitin- ,i. tntM,t , i.i.i .;L.i,i i,i .,... Ois ..lw...t tl.
ng in.lll loinwing me rc.miiing
raiders, he was sphhI ut Ihe infir-! ,;, ,,. ,,,.,. ,, pn,M.(, S.
I "' t,"' ''J- 'nrrnn trH.,.s. I ,,f. piv.nce of mind unl to
They said the Americans had no rich) Hl,n ,,,, ,, ,,. ,illv. office
in Mexico, and they denied that tin , nv f . j,,,,,,!,.,.,!,
C.rranwi garris..n at Palomas. fnr!of i,,,,,,. fi , . ,ri.,.
""h "f ""' ri-r, had any- She il wa Ilia got in touch
"' 1 i,h ,h' rH,l T,,,,rpiwitli Cnpt. A. W. Bmck nf Cnmpanv
wer.. is.ss.bly forty Corranxa men at , w.ih , ,,,, A, iV rK)M.k ,., v,,.i..g.
II. c gate. Major Tompkins found .!; . wpr(. ,.. v,.n. (.( ,,,
...i tl.nd of .piickly over'omi.ie ny;thl. 01Ui( , re , ,,, tl,lu. ,,
wish .... the part of the Carranu of-'
tleer ... detain the relurnimr American
' r""l's-
The hyn hud its ludicrous ide as
II .. .1. .. . ... nl. . . . .
T' " Tav:"y- 'T . "
. .n.,r nnu iniiiTn .ougi.i ill
ralhcr cunniis uniforms. Here was
an officer in pajamas giving orders
to a gmup of men in every stage ol
.r-hal.ihe. M..si of the men hud on
"'"'' "I,,"r P"" ''-
I'. rta Ihev were wl.ollv or nsrtlv in-
. .ecu ll 2l, bisTas we"
..... . . ,t. liul tin j lo. ht jusl as aeu.
Tbe slrecls at an early hour yes-
I iilav nn, ruing were strewn with the
d.-iid and wounded Mexicans. The
i ..i .....i j i i :
" "" ""' we
P-st collcclcd. Then the hospital
. r sent alter Ihe Mexican wound-
cl . ad Ihe ground around the Hob
pilal was s i covered wilh mangled
and bleeding men. The most ot
them were Yaipii Indians and, no
mntier hnw bndly wnnnded, not a
groan coaled their feverish Hps.
MEXICO, FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1016.
L
r
inu at close rani;.- is-lhe fault oi
those that (hi not understand the
cienee of ranuil; findinu and -iuhl
selling'. '
The raiders killed J. J. Moore on
the pni cl of his house about a mil.
outsMe of rol,.mbus and wnunded
,js wjV j,, ,he , sl,. WJ
, , ,,w .j,.,, ,V All.ri,.lln Mtlll.
. , ',. , ,
' IM-
j, jr j,,,,,,. wif,. r ,, ,-iiilMn !
,.. I; i,.,.
. . .:., ,.. , ,
I
"' :
.-' i
r"""". 'T V '
tor oi I tie i oiiimmis i oiincr. re-
minds us that American women an-
slill the diiUKhlers an.l pnrlucr. -t
the indomitable pioneer-
Mr,
niiKs was in ine nine wo.ui ex.
.-limine office near Ihe Hoover lloii-c
in the street where the fulil iu Ihe
,,,"J '"rt ;,r ,h" vil.l" '!"
niisnami was on ineir nnmciea.i in
Ihe eimulry. Willi her baby ch.s.,l
... i i . i i ... ,i :...l
in hit i.it'iisi sni- i-niliu in - smii-n
Iwnrd, even while the blond from
cuts caused bv I .nnr glu-s was
, ., .
ma user liullels wire tearing Inmugl.
i .i . . , ..,
I lie iiiiii weni iicrnnurniiig oi nic oi
,.,, , ;... .!., ... H.,,,,1,,..
. Vlwt,.rnill. ,...,., ., ln
"Z""
nun nmvwi inm ron nm
liss, th.. ugh
aim reiMirled thnl n hiillnlimi of
infantry and sipiadron of cnvnlv
. ... .
,'."r,""' . " -,u"-
nicy will Be dlsMed along 11 r-
der before reaching Cnlumbus.
TllrnoP wa with his wile
,, rhi,, in B ponp, in I0 ,.
hiirN of ,h Utwn wp,, nt 4U1I,,1W
direellv in the nnth ..f the Villi. ...I-
' o ... .
" H"ly ' f
f hH, ,ommnm nP blirr,eade.l
his house, but the builds that splint-
ered its walls caused him to abandon
,,ny thought of resisting there. With
. . . .
n s laiuiiy ann inr wue oi a noil- -
coiimissiniied officer that happened ;
to be in the house he made a dash
foi he railroad embankment under
fire. None was hit by the flyii
bullets. The officer's heaviest arm
was a shn gun loaded with bird shot,
hut with th's he killed a Mexican
flanker that threatened him as the
0
(i
0
" ;va ilia, "Viva Mejieo, and
"Malarlos Lrrini;o.," could be heard.
When ihe snakinu ruins of the '
burred huililiims first came into
ticw from the ouriishiiiir aiKoum-1
biles of the Dcniiii); militiamen mi
''" v..r the Tres Ilennnnns ,
lke, the Homes in the outskirts oi
the nn fortunate town seemed wholly bniblint n fine road In Colitmhn.
.h-erled. A few soldiers could liel.. nili Kinhl n v.uwt -..n.l to ....n-
- ,
. " 1 . ' ' .
"all -ilresscil parties nl men coulil lie !
seen returning from Ihe varioui
points wliere tiulil'tiir had licen go-.
ini: on. Only the fraeli.ui of one, tl,i fr f tlutl : Vmi cnu nl
iroup was in camp, and then' wa nays -care up a bunch ,.f lVmin?
a uctiuine lllile nl welcome on the ..it,,..., ,.n,l ....wlinvs fi i tlio ran.
''' "' reirulars as llicy greeted
'' troops and volunteers.
"" l,"r,llv Mu'r' n",, ""'
l""' "' '' ''ld have been
.....li. ....il...n..l .....I ir......,.M...l
T. v.".lniHWr. man' of then.
ltiH.r , c.mipanyl wen- soon
'r joined by Sheriff W. C. Simpson and
hi(( Together thev took up i.
.....i... lir(irM f". ,-,.i sh
cum to ad as support of Major
Tnmpkin
MllMV Ue 1)it).r ,.nimrN in
,,iril.r ,, ,.,,, for .
government thai is failing in its
I , , , , ,
d.:ty In protect American life and
properly ;n and mil of the I'nited
States. That Mexicans should dure
. .1. .. ! 1 .
iniissiii-rc shows the contempt with I t reels ofter the hut tie. The body
which ihe various Mexican fiietiosii'is -apposed to he that of a surveyor
view the American government. , I'miu Kl I'nso. His charred aulo-
The llciii'ng men Itturned late I an bile stood ut (he curb,
yesterday iil'ternnnn, many of the! Knur Xloicaii prisoners arc in the
cars being decorated with the troph-i .card h e. One of them is siip-
ics of the fight. .o.h.I to have been the spy that
Il seems that Villa intended to lie-: ,i,,te. nut Ihe homes occupied by
gin the battle just as the flohlen ! .fficers und dlher Americans. The
Stale Limited pulh d into Columbus. .tos.rt:nn of dead and wounded tc-
I'l... I .. . ... l. . . . ..I I M ..
. , , " "T V
,'v' -PPl.cd With the much- ;
needed cash. Through the ignorance
ot Ins followers, however, they
oN.ned tire on a tram of loaded coal
cars thai was running social just
llh,., ,.f ,. jn,i,w lrilin. The
,.n(filliPr ,,u,.koi, ,,, rnjl, , inmii.
dintclv though the bullet Were plav
jM.; a ,,, hj(, ,aU ' t
iv ,1(LiM) a ..(1oan rt-awav"
li..v .'ii.l.l in . n.rn ,wi,...l I...
. -","'- .. ....
menl. ,s demonstrated that
.he A.ner border is practically
defenseless. What of the village,
and isolated farms and ranches?
When two Ichiim were at the Moore
. . ..
ranch, on Ihe line not more than i
fie miles from Columbus and with-
.nit communication, what can be ex-
isetcd of the miles of unguarded
Imrdcrside f Mexican raiders ride it
ut will.
Ijist night Coniiany I patroled the
streets of IVming. Stragglers from
the Villa force wem'sighted north of
FIVE CENTS THB COPY
nn
D uuu
Aiuerieaii soldiers did splendidly.
It is intcTe-lint' In note thai Maior
Ti-mpkins ny hie sixty nsn in bin
siiindrou when he i-rossi-d into Mex
ico and only thirty-five iu his main
hmly when the Mexican, deployed to
mnke a .land iu fnree.
The l.uiui Count' Road Board it
ueet lis with the I lilted States, so
. penile can leave ranidlv when
necessary for thcui to Kct tip and
of Mexican territorv
,.H. 1 1 1 it f il li-hl when crowded,
r , r if Ihe weather is cloudv.
The
Heining men got to Columbus
niiutitv ipiiek uhei. the call for as--islancc
came.
A wounded American prisoner
says that I'nhlo l,os-7., siiposed to
have been in command of the Villn
bandits when the eighteen American
uiiuiii!: men were murdered, at Santa
V atiel. I hi., h.is lmt down just
nfisidc of Columbu-. The prisoner
chiims to hae been holding the
leader's horse nnd to have seen th"
o.'.i. ni. -sen in. i.r ioii.scrs.
' 1
i ..i.. ..:..i ...i .... i... ..n
'I he s'ghl of n charred bodv in
the ring of fire rhout the-niins ot
.1 J ' I L ..I
:M ""' ,m,"'""' "r ""rninrlc
, 1.,,, went n in the hours of dark-
eess that precedisl the dawn.
,w f , kil.
tw M(,x:Mlls f(r, hp hn(, boon
shot through the stiniach. Though
.lying he crawled around a house to
s- .nt the top of Ihe head from his
own slayer and kill another raider.
Merchants sweeping the glass from
inside nnd ontside their stores made
. . . ... . " "
,, ,ooK ,h( ,own bM t,, rixit-
P() ,,y ass.ne.tmying hail atorm.
Others were Wking over their dam-
..j ,, jpj ttork The bullet
it(, ,M jj, the hri(,k u
., ,l ,.: .trt
'ne mam si reel.
V;lla did not mi:ke a clean sweep
-f the stocks of the stores, a he
evident I v intended to do. Many ot
the dwellings were also looted.
The officers of Ihe Thirteenth V. 8.
Cavalry that took part in the fip'it
arc
C.l. C. II. Slocum, Major Cwr,
A
Continued on page eiht
