The Ecko has a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sona who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 10
THE TAX ASSESSOR AND
FRUIT TREE STATISTICS
Orchard Owners Can Help Him to Ob
tain Valuable Statistical
information
Mr. Jay Buttles began this week
taking the 1916 tax valuations. He
remarked incidentally that orchard own
er* could greatly facilitate his work and
incidentally save themselves much
time by making an approximate sched
ule of their fruit tree acreage, the age
of the trees and the variety of apples or
other fruit trees. He is required not
only to take the acreage of each owner,
but also the ages of the trees and the
variety of the fruit. This not only reg
ulates the value of the fruit acreage,
but at once establishes just how many
trees are in the bearing stage and how
many of each variety there are in the
county.
This will be valuable statistical in
formation and useful to the sellers and
buyers of apples and other varieties of
fruit, and may have much to do with
regulating the price. In other words,
a crop estimate can thus be arrived at
with a much greater degree of cer
tainty. Thus: After the assessment is
completed the number of acres of
bearing trees in Chelan county will
then not be based on guess work.
Knowing the number of bearing trees,
and their age, it will then be possible
to make a very close estimate of the
total box yield. The importance of
this information should be evident to
orchard owners, and by working in har
mony with the assessor they can help
to make it reasonably accurate. Make
a list of the varieties of your trees, their
age and the number of each variety.
Cady Pass Mining Company In
corporates
Articles of incorporation of the Cady
Pass Mining and Milling Co. were filed
in Wenatchee last week. The capital
tock is placed at one million dollars
divided into one million shares. The
officers and incorporators are F. T.
Motteler, J. F. Buttles and R. F.
Tjftylor ol this place and C. E. Buttles
and T, D. Rafter of Wenatchee. The
mining property of the company is
located at Cady pass on the head of the
north fork of the Skikomish river,
and lies on the western slope ol
the Cascades. It is the intention of
the owners to do considerable develop
ment work the coming summer. A
number of specimens of ore from the
property were exhibited here last sum
mer and attracted much attention on
account of their apparent riciiness.
The rock contains gold, silver and
copper. C. E. Buttles is president,
J. F. Buttles vice president and R. F.
Taylor, secretary and treasurer.
Patriotism
Do you stand for Patriotism?
If you do, you will be interested to
know that The Outlook has just issued
in pamphlet form a little four-page cir
cular containing a brief address on Pa
triotism by Lyman Abbott, "The Salute
to the Flag," and several stanzas of
"America" and "The Star Spangled
Banner."
This leaflet is intended for general
distribution among the people of the
United States in an endeavor to stimu
late their enthusiasm and interest in
their country, its present welfare and
itt future. It may be used in the
schools, in the churches, inserted in
yonr daily mail, given to your friends —
in any way that will serve to bring it to
the attention of the American public.
A pound package containing about
250 will be sent upon request, postage
prepaid, to anyone upon receipt of 25
cents to cover the actual cost. Single
copies free on postcard request.
Send order, with remittance, to Ar
thur M. Morse, 381 Fourth avenue,
New York City.
"Aecniacyis our bobby." Wheeler's
Drug Store. #8
tlbe Xeavenwortb Sc'oo
Huge Earnings of the Standard
Oil Co.
The Standard Oil company of In
diana in 1915 earned 53.32 per cent
sn its outstanding $30,000,000 stock,
as compared with 21.96 per cent in
1914. This was revealed at the stock
holders' meeting held at Whiting, Ind.
The company paid $3,600,000 divi
dends, besides which the surplus was
increased $12,398,376, making the
total 826,793,040.
Another subsidiary company of the
Standard Oil Co., with a capitalization
of five million dollars earned last year
a profit of twenty million dollars. The
profits on gasoline paid a large part of
this huge loot, it can be called nothing
else.
WILL THE RAILROAD OP
ICICLE RIVER BE BUILT
Parties Are Now in the East Trying to
Arrange for its Construction
This Summer
Answering the interrogation in the
caption it can only be said that the
owners of the mining property on the
head of the Icicle river are now in the
east endeavoring to arrange for the
building of the road. On the best of
authority we can say that Mr. Van Epps
with other parties left Seattle last week
for New York and hopes to arrange for
the building of the road before they
return. On account of the unusually
severe winter nothing can De done in
the mountains before the last of May
or first of June. By that time Mr. Van
Epps expects to return and will be in a
position to give out definite news as to
the plans of the mining company.
A SHIP LOAD Of APPLES
FOR ENGLAND THIS TALL
Washington, Oregon, Idaho and Califor
nia in Scheme—Cost 33 cts. Box
as Against $1 by Rail
An Oregon man is responsible for
the movement to charter a ship to
carry a cargo of apples from the Pacific
coast direct to England the coming
fall. In the sale of western apples
why should the western apple grower
pay one dollar per box to get them on
the foreign market by rail shipment to
New York when the water route at 33
cents is open to them? If a refrigera
tor ship is available why should the ex
periment not be tried out by the wes
tern grower?
Cooperation of the fruit men of four
states to charter a ship to take a cargo
of fruit to England this fall is the aim
of E. L. Goodsell, who is here to lay
his plan before Governor Withycombe.
He has already obtained the endorse
ment of Governor Lister and Governor
Alexander of Idaho and will put the
suggestion before Governor JohDson, of
California.
Goodsell's plan contemplates the
chartering of a refrigerator ship with a
carrying capacity of 300,000 cubic
feet, at a cost which he estimates
would approximate $50,000, the ex
pense to be pro-rated among the ship
pers. The charges on a full cargo of
apples would thus cost from seaboard
to destination about 33 and one-third
cents a box, he believes, as against
one dollar a box, the overland freight
rate thru to England last year.
Texas on Preparedness
Recently a Texas newspaper took an
informal preferential vote on the ques
tion of preparedness. Out of 16,732
votes cast, 15,911 were for and 821
against preparedness. This, it is be
lieved, will influence the action of its
delegation in congiess.
If you love music, go to the concert
at the Scenic tomorrow night. The
last of the Kumtux series of concerts.
Curtain up 8:45. 10*
The Cascade Lumber Co. camp at
Mt. Solo, near North Yakima, is to re
sume with higher wages than last year.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, March 10, 1916
A Word With the Office Seeker
Every mail brings to our desk from one to a dozen letters, most of
them under a one-cent postal privilege (unsealed) some with a polite
request for publicity, others with an inferential intimation that publicity
would be acceptable. If this paper printed one tenth, yes, one-twentieth
of the matter received each week from those seeking publicity at the
expense of the rjublisher The Echo would have to double its size, and
then there would be no room for local news and paid for advertising.
From all this only one inference can be drawn. Some publishers must
fall for the palaver. Else why such continued add endless waste of
stamps and eneryg. Any other conclusion would lead to the belief that
desire for publicity outruns discretion.
Not one in a hundred of the letters here referred to contains one
particle of news value to the readers of this paper. To print the stuff
would be to crowd out something else that did have interest for the
reader. If any man seeking office can convince this paper by indubita
ble evidence that the salvation of the county, state or nation depends
on him, and him alons, then and in that event, his communication at
once possesses news value and will be printed gratis. The publisher of
this weekly newspaper has enough interest in the salvation of the
government to make a vicarious financial sacrifice for the public
good. Under any other consideration why should the publisher crowd
good news matter or paying advertisements ofl the page to make room
for the blandiloquence of one seeker after publicity more than another,
when the qualifications and fitness of all are unknown to him?
There is but one safe rule for the publisher of any country newspa
per to follow. To preserve his self respect and conserve his resources,
he must put political, and in truth, every kind of publicity that is in
tended to benefit any person, company or community, on a business
basis. If the publication has any value as a means to publicity it has a
price, like everything else. If it has no value it is a nuisance and like
other nuisances should be suppressed.
$8,000 APPROPRIATED
FOR BLEWETT ROAD
Action Taken by Commissioners Make
Certain the Improvement of
Our Mountain Road
Among other business transacted by
the county commissioners this week
was the setting aside of $8000 to be
used in improving the Blewett road to
Cle Elum and Roslyn, in Kittitas coun
ty. The money will come out of the
road and bridge fund. The western
part of the county has always been in
terested in the improvement of this
highway. Work will begin as early in
the spring as possible. By agreement
with the commissioners of Kittitas
county, entered into last summer, the
Kittitas side of the mountain will be
improved and this route made as good
as any mountain crossing in the state.
Last Basket Ball of Season
In a spectacular game on the home
court last Friday night the local high
school defeated the Wenatchee high
school by a score of IS to 45 and won
the undisputed championship of the
valley. The Wenatchee boys were
completely outclassed at all stages of
the game. Time and again the Leav
enworth guards would take the ball
from center and a clever forward shift
would give Wunder or Fitzpatrick an
open shot before Wenatchee would real
ize that the play had started. W. Wun
der and Andresen played a great game
at guard and allowed the Wenatchee
forwards only four goals. Wunder is
without doubt the best defense man
playing high school ball in the valley.
Andresen was moved from forward to
guard this year and played a strong de
fensive game as well as working the
floor well in the offensive play. Capt.
McNett, playing the pivot position,
has been the star center of all the high
school games. In fact, Gellatly was
the only man able to take the tip-off
from him. Roswell thinks that there
should be a law prohibiting a man of
Gellatly's height from playing center
anyway. McNett hopes to continue
his athletics in college and we hope to
hear from him later. Fitzpatrick, play
ing his first seasoa as a regular, showed
great speed and cleverness. With his
speed and natural basket-shooting abil
ity Joe should develop into a really
greit forward. L. Wunder, the midget
forward, was the star point-getter of the
team. Leonard can always be depend
ed on to play a strong game against
any opponent and at any time. He is
a dead shot at the basket and will slip
away from the best of guards for a
number of baskets in every game.
This game closed the most success
ful season the high school has ever
had. The schedule has been a very
heavy one. The team has not played
high schools alone, but has been
matched against all comers, and has
proved a worthy opponent for the best
of them.
Goals —Gruenberg 1, Fitzpatrick 5,
Leavers 2, L. Wunder 11, McNett 4,
Andresen 2. Fouls—McKittrick 7,
Fitzpatrick 3.
LtAVENWORTH LUMBER CO.
STARTS MILL IN TWO WOKS
Large Demand for Lumber Anticipated —
Shortage in Cars May Delay
Movement
Mr. F. S. Jacobsen, manager of the
company, returned last Sunday even
ing from a five week's trip spent in
Utah and Colorado, where he says the
demand for lumber and boxes is active.
He is quite well satisfied with his trip
and expects to start his mill in about
two weeks.
The unprecedented movement of
freight, both east and west, has caused
a shortage of cars which threatens to
become more acute before the trouble
is overcome by the addition of new
rolling stock on the part of the rail
roads.
Having carried on logging last fall
and early winter, before the excessive
snow fall came, he is pretty well sup
plied with logs and intends to add to
his stock of logs by resuming logging
operations as quick as conditions will
permit.
Mr. J. B. Adams returned Wednes
day afternoon from Wenatcnee, where
he attended the protracted meeting of
the fruit growers of the lower valley.
He says a basis of co-operation was
finally agreed on and believes that in
the future the fruit growers of the val
ley will not only get better prices for
fruit by the elimination of the consign
ment methods of shipping apples, I
which has always had such a demoraliz
ing effect on the market, but hopes
that in the future, by the adopttion of
the cash method of selling apples, the
grower will be very substantially bene
fitted.
Mrs. A. McPheters, an old resident
of Leavenwortb, for the past ten years
a resident of Seattle, made her first
trip back to the haunts that knew her
once the first of this week and is the
guest of Mrs. F. A. Losekamp. She
says she found the town much changed
but still met some old familiar faces
and altogether is enjoying her visit.
G. N. Section Men Get Raise
Beginning the first of this month the
wages of section men on all the roads
entering Spokane have been raised
from 15 cents per hour to 16/ i and
17?2 cents. The Great Northern
raised the wages of its section men
from 15 to 1734. The scarcity of
labor and increased earnings of the
roads since business revived are given
out as the reasons on the part of rail
! roads for the action.
This will affect a large number of
men in and near Leavenworth, at least
so long as the snow continues to be a
factor in the operation of the road.
The number of section men employed
during the winter in a mountain region
is always larger, and this winter has
been unusually large. In the past two
months as many as two hundred extra
men have been employed in the shovel
gangs between here and Tye.
FRUIT GROWERS MAKE
PLANS AT WENATCHEE
Growers League Weas favored—Will Or
ganize in Small Units—Taboo
on Consignments
After spending all last week and
Monday ol this week in conference
with three government representatives
it was finally agreed on to affiliate with
the Growers League for the purpose of
general organization. The league to
be composed of units of approximately
twenty-five fruit growers each. Each
unit to finance itself, arrange for the
storage ol its fruit and control its own
affairs in a general way. Each unit will
be represented by one of its members.
The league officers will have charge of
the inspection of all fruit and is to co
operate with the units in selling apples,
but will not control the sale further
than to see that no apples are shipt on
consignment.
Arrangements have already been
made with the banks to furnish what
money is necessary to take care of and
pack and put the fruit on;the market.
The first money received- to go to the
banks to repay loans. The grower to
have the right to sell his fruit thru any
selling agency he pleases.
The one point on which all are
agreed is that hereafter no apples are
to be shipt on consignment. When
any kind of fruit leaves the shipping
point the price is definitely fixed and
payment must be arranged for. All
fruit will be guaranteed as to grade and
quality by the growers league.
Lots of Accidents in February
The monthly statement of the indus
trial insurance commission, issued "the
2nd of March, shows during February
there were 1,152 accidents in the haz
ardous industries of the state, of which
thirteen resulted in death. The total
number of injuries reported since Octo
ber, 1911. is 62,621.
Dryden
A big baby boy was born to Mr. and
Mrs. Harry Baker on March Ist.
Mrs. Clement is up from Wenatchee
visiting with her daughter, Mrs. Baker.
Dryden districts held elections last
Saturday. South Dryden re-elected
Loren Bland. North Dryden re-elected
Herschel James.
Next Wednesday, March 15, the
Woman's Club will hold their meeting
in Sherman's hall.
Edith Cade of South Dryden school,
12-year-old daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
L. Cade, took eighth-grade examina
tions in January and received her
diploma.
Lloyd Unger is visiting in Wenatchee
this week.
The Tumwater Light & Water Co. is
[ making some changes in the arrange
ment of its office and salesroom. The
two front rooms are being thrown into
one by the removal of a partition, with
j the purpose of adding to the stock of
i light and electric fixtures and to make
' a better display in the future.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
Higk Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to tliis office.
$1.50 Per Year
UNOFFICIAL PRIMARY
MARCH 18 TO 23
To Determine Presidential Preference
and Preparedness Sentiment
in This Vicinity
The ballots will indicate the voters'
first and second choice for president
and vice-president. For and opposed
to preparedness. For and against uni
versal military service on Swiss or Aus
tralian plan.
Every legal voter will be allowed to
cast one ballot. After filling the blanks
indicating his preference on either or
all of the propositions he should sign
his or her name. This is to prevent
duplication and indicate the good faith
of each voter.
The ballot box will be placed at
some prominent place convenient to
the public, in charge of a reputable
citizen. Three responsible citizens
will at the end of the voting period
open the ballot box, count the votes
and announce the result, which will be
printed in The Echo of March 24th.
The voting will open on the morn
ing of Saturday, March 18, and con
tinue during business hours until 6
o'clock p. m., Thursday, March 23.
Wenatchce Valley Northern to
Discontinue
An Olympia dispatch of March 3rd
states that a petition was filed with the
public service commission today by
the Wenatchee Valley & Northern rail
way company, which operates north
from Leavenworth, agring leave to dis
continue as a common carrier and to
act in the future merely as a private
road. Income from freight and pas
sengers was insufficient to warrant con
tinuing the road in the capacity of
common carrier, the petition says.
It is understood that negotiations are
under way for the sale of the road and
the buyer would not sign up unless it
was relieved from the common carrier
class. The commission probably will
grant the petition and cancel tariffs.
Tour-Day Interruption in Mail
Service
Since Monday last thru passenger
aDd mail service on the Great Northern
was discontinued until today. The
road was not blocked all the time and
freight trains were moved east and west
with slight interruption. But on ac
count of the immense amount of snow
in the canyon and the severe storm the
first five days in the month the man
agement thought it the safer course to
detour all mail and passenger trains by
way of the Northern Pacific. Regular
service was resumed this morning on
the G. N. and from now on no serious
trouble is anticipated.
Millinery Store Open March 15
Miss Beulah M. White of Seattle
will open an up-to-date stock of the
latest in millinery creations in Leaven
worth about March 15. Wait for this
opening.
Charles Rollins, who went down to
Bend, Oregon, three weeks ago, re
turned home Saturday. Mr. Rollins
was well impressed with the develop
ment and prospects of that locality and
expects to make a second visit soon,
with the intention of remaining indefin
itely. He remarked that several of
our former citizens who have recently
located at Bend seemed to be pros
pering.
The third mud slide this week, all
practically in the same place, two miles
east of town, delayed No. 43 yesterday
evening over two hours. A few weeks
ago it was snow slides and now it is
mud slides that makes the "winter of
our discontent" in Leaven worth one
continuous round of pleasure.
Curtain up at Scenic tomorrow night.
Business houses close at 8:45. Very
fine musical entertainment. Do not
regret that you failed to hear it. 10"
