idSTHif o K K W\\ J[ 4 JI9HBVIVHHP 1
[J Vr txjt (I
v \ FWw&SsMM&v tirK Tii ■ i 11
Bvkntii -i ear. .\o.
W HINTS FOU IRRIGATORS.
order to answer the many inqtti-
are made to this office con-
the proper size of flumes and
to use in extending (lie distrlh-
system to the farm units, the fol
information and data is sub-
Hm
!>&■ g«’ii.-ritl the distribution system
|||Hbe built to the margin of each 40
trait or legal subdivision at the
|» point, or at sufficient elevation to
tin high point as far as practic
|S The land owner must build liis
BHili.-tr lion within the farm unit.
t|ti:intity of water allowed is
tit to cover the land to a dcptli
Hi - feet in an irrigation season of
Hn I'M 1 ' The system lias sufficient
to cover the land lo a dcptli
JBl-2 inches in one month. This rate
the maximum summer de-
for one month, say, and is equiv-
to one second foot for each 1(10
or nearly one-half a miner's
per acre.
capacity of the distribution sys
built by the district and that to
on the farm units must lie
larger than that rate would indi
on account of the necessity of
for tile rotation method of
t very of water by the continuous
method means that water is de-
to the farm units at a uniform
that will give the required depth
■ 11’ feet in the five months. This
■t the rate of one second foot for
■i per acre. This method lias been
hy experience to be entirely im-
for small tracts and is
wasteful of water.
hy the "rotation method’’
■ms that each farm unit is given ail
■ water that can be handled effec-
Bly for :i few days each month. On
project the "rotation heads" adopt
Bcir 10 acres, 0.5 second foot (25
inches.)
■or 20 acres, 1.0 second foot, (50
inches.)
inches.)
in acres. 2.0 second feet, (100
incites.)
a landowner with ten acres
|Huld provide capacity in liis farm
system for 0.5 second foot
minor's inchest; a tract of 40 acres
provide for a capacity of 2.00
feet, for tracts larger than 40
no additional capacity is requir-
Hup to 200 acres.
this method of delivery an owner
2n at res would have 1.00 second
of water for as many days as rc-
to give him the depth desired
of the year. The rota-
Hli heads gi\en above will cover the
of acres given to a depth of
!Bb foot per day, hence, during Aug-
Bt. if he wishes to cover liis tract to
?Btlepth of 1-2 foot, he would run the
live days. This means, of course,
(Bit water will have to be cared for
|S night. Irrigators should make all
beforehand so as to be
Uple to care for the water night and
when it comes to his tract.
I* The types of flame recommended are
of 1 l-l inch rough pine for the
and bottom, with 3x4 inch posts
collars, spaced eight feet apart.
the side boards to the bottom
with I6d nails, 16 inches apart
spike the sides and bottoms to the
sills and side posts with I6d nails,
for posts. Use 3x6 inch one-fool
for footing blocks. These should
Be dipped in coal tar or creosote,
A 12x12 inch flume, that is. with
Hk h side boards, will carry two second
Beet if built with a fall of 5 inches per
■btl feci. A 12x10 inch flume, bottom
boards, will carry 2.0 second feet.
Hi 12x8 inch flume will carry 2.00
Becond feet on a grade of 24 inches
Buine wil carry 1.0 second feet on a
Btradc of 10 inches per 100 feet; a 10x8
Bitch flume wil carry 0.50 second feet
Bin a grade of 2 1-2 inches per 100 feet:
Bn Bx6 inch flume will carry 0.50 second
on a grade of 17 inches per 100
Beet.
r The smallest flume used by the dis
jtrict is 12x8 inches and on farm units
pto flume smaller than Bx6 inches
phould be used. The grades given above
[are the minimum falls at which the
flumes will carry the quantity indi
[cated.
J. C. STEVENS,
Engineer in charge of the West Oka
nogan Valley Irrigation District.
Carpenters are making a sweeping
transformation in the front of the
Frank Building, on Main street. New
display windows are to be put in and
arranged for a regular store front. The
room will be occupied as soon as the
work in band is completed by the
Oroville Pharmacy.
TOWN COUNCIL.
Minutes of the meeting of the town
council of Ofoville, Washington, Mar.
6, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilmen
Beale, Frlls and Smith.
Minutes of the previous meeting read
and approved as read.
The monthly report of Town Treas
urer was read and placed on file. In
vitation of the Farmer’s Union to a
meeting to consider the matter of or
ganizing a district fair association was
read and at request of the council
Mayor Samson was asked to attend
this meeting.
On the recommendation of the health
committee the outhouse in the rear of
the Peerless hotel property was de
clared a nuisance and ordered remov
ed at once, and the marshal was in
structed to notify the owner or agent
of this action.
The bill of Hughes & Co., was laid
on the table for adjustment. On motion
the following bills were allowed and
ordered paid.
E. R. Hoose, salary and supplies,
$104.60; E. J. Wilson, salary, $75.00;
C. H. Neal, salary, $25.00; E. E. Efner,
salary, $15.00; E. A. McMahan, salary,
$2.41; H. J. Desmond, supplies for
water works, $5.05; Similkameen Pow
er Co., light, power, $128.80; Morris
Walmer, street work, $1.50; John Col
lins, labor, water works, $2.40; W. S.
Nott Co., supplies tire dept., $3.00; J.
S. Campbell, hauling manure, $1,50.
On motion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
BASKET BALL AVERAGE.
Prof. Davis hands in the following
on the subject of basket ball average
for the season:
In the county series Oroville has
played seven games, three on her own
floor and four on her opponents floors,
and has won four out of the seven,
giving her ’>7 1-7 per cent. Okanogan
has played six games, thre on her own
floor and three on her opponents floor,
and has won three out of the six, giv
ing her 50 per cent. Conconully has
played three games, tw r o on her own
floor and on* on he*-opponent'*-floor,
and has won two out of the three, giv
ing her 6(> 2-3 per cent. Although Con
conully has the best percentage, her
schedule is so narrow that she has not
a very clear title to the championship.
If Concnnully has the best team in the
county as her record indicates, she
should meet Oroville on the local floor
and make her title clear. The follow
ing is suggested as an all-county bas
ket ball team: Bains, Conconully, for
ward; McMahan, Oroville, forward;
Robinson, Conconully, center; Shearer
Okanogan, guard; Cole, Oroville,
guard. Subs —Herrick, Conconully, for
ward; Graham, Okanogan, guard.
CHA3TOE I>' PRICES.
Geo. Bartell, county agent for the
Studebaker cars, has received notice
from the factory of an advance in
prices since the first of March. Under
the new price list four cylinder tour
ing ears, 7 passenger, have been ad
vanced from $845 to $875; roadsters,
3 passengers, from $825 to SBSO. Six
cylinder touring cars, 7 passenger,
from SIOSO to $1085; roadsters, 3 pas
senger from $1025 to SIO6O. This ad
vance has been made necessary by a
sharp advance in the price of materials
entering into the construction of the
cars. There were two courses open to
the manufacturer, to meet this advance
by slightly increasing the price of the
car, or reduce the quality of the car.
The Studebakers are strictly for qual
ity, and decided it would be more sat
isfactory to the investing public to re
tain the quality and make the small
advance in original cost, lienee the
c hange of prices at this time.
DEAL.
On March 6th Fred T. Neal turned
over to Seattle parties the Standard
mining claims, located six miles south
west of Tonasket. This property has
had considerable prominence on ac
count of the chief metal contained be
ing tungsten. While very little devel
opment work has ben done, the surface
indications and outcroppings show ev
ery indication of a strong body of ore.
The property was examined by Prof.
F. M. Handy, assistant professor of
geology at Washington state college,
during the summer of 1915, and is the
subject of an article contained in bule
tin No. 100. entitled "An Investigation
of the Meneral Deposits of Northern
Okanogan County.”
While Mr. Neal did not divulge the
terms of the contract, he stated that
the contracting parties had started
work and would continue until they
had demonstrated fully the extent and
value of the deposits.
Riley Hurlbert returned to his home
at Tonasket after being in St. Jos
eph's hospital only some ten days after
an operation for appendicitis. His rap
id recovery was remarkable.
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON, MARCH 1 10, 1910
COMMERCIAL CLUB MEETING.
It was another very enjoyable, in
teresting session that the Commercial
t luh held lust Thursday evening in the
dining room of the Hotel tie Grubb, at
which a luncheon was the attraction
that drew out fully as large a crowd
•is attended the initial luncheon at
tue same place just two weeks before.
On account of the very unfavorable
weather a small attendance was ex
pt ( ted, but our citizens demonstrated
their growing interest in the Ciub
meetings by braving the storm. In a
(lawn of this size, when between 70
and 80 of the residents turn out to a
pt.bilc meeting of this kind it can be
depended upon that about every busi
ness interest in the place is represent
ed. Such was the case last Thursday
evi ning, and seldom has a happier or
better pleased lot of citizens gathered
to "gather in Oroville.
According to the program as arrang
ed prior to the giving of these lun
cheons the Uadbourne hotel was "e
--lectcd, and the selection was made by
lot, for the second luncheon, but owing
to some accident to the water supply
at the Radbourno the luncheon at that
place had to he canceled. E, N. Grubb
was not notified until late Thursday
ihat he would be expected to provide
the evening meal, but he was equal
to Ihe emergency, and an excellent
and bountiful luncheon was supplied.
Again the orchestra of six pieces, that
made such a favorable hit on the oc
casion of its first appearance, was
present, and the musical feature could
not have been excelled.
During the evening interesting ad-
dresses v ere delivered by Rev. W. W.
St rite, of the M. E. church, Rufus
Woods, manager of the Wenatchee
World and Thos. N. O’N’ell, who is so
actively engaged in boosting for a dis
trict fair.
Some routine business was trans*
acted and work was assigned to sev
eral committees. Funds are to be rais
ed to send a representative to Wash
ington if found neecssary, to urge the
passage of a bill pending in congress
providing for an appropriation to be
applied to paying a just proportion of
♦he expense of- < oiistrncinvg the- West-
Okanogan Valley Irrigation system for
lands held in the Indian allotments
tinder the project. The duty of collect
ing the amount required was referred
to the finance committee. On motion
the president was instructed to ap
point a committee to represent the
Club at the fair meeting to be held in
the Odd Fellows hall Saturday of this
week. The entertainment committee
reported that plans are being made
tor an entertainment to be given in
the Orpheum during the present month
and that the next luncheon would be
held at the Radbourne hotel. A sug
gestion was made and favorably con
sidered that if the U. S. land office is
to be moved to Okanogan countv an
effort should be made to se -ure the
same for Oroville. A motion prevailed
mat the ministers of the town be .n
--x.; cil to join the club, and were to bn
adm'lied to membership without
charge. Prof. Davis asked the support
of the club in securing the county in
terscholastic athletic meet for this
year, and the matter was referred to
a committee with power to act.
I’.V.ME ELECTION.
The school election Saturday was
one of tile tamest that has ever been
held in Oroville. When you look back
over the past you can recall schopl
elections that were more exciting than
presidential elections, when feeling
ran sky high and strenuous efforts
made to got out every vote in the dis
trict, legal or otherwise. One would
have thought front the agitation that
the very life of the nation depended
upon the election of certain candidates
for an office that most men would run
their legs off trying to escape. Satur
day a holy calm brooded over the
school house, where the election was
held. Few bucked the hill to exercise
their franchise. Apathy ruled supreme.
1c is not known exactly how many
votes were cast, eleven or seventeen,
according to the variations in the re
ports reaching this office. So far as
the number is concerned is a matter
of indifference, however, as they all
went one way, and Tom Collier was
tin; victim, being chosen to succeed
himself. The result indicates that
the public is satisfied with Mr. Coll
ier's record in the office.
Marvin Chase reports to the We
natchee World that he has at last se
cured sufficcnt backing to carry out
the irrigation project that will water
Whitestone Flat. It is pleasing news to
report, for the project Mr. Chase is
behind has for its object the watering
of very desirable lands a short dist
ance east of Loomis, and some ten
miles southeast of Oroville. The coun
try now is unoccupied and unproduc
tive, but with the addition of water it
can be made one of the garden spots
of the stale.
MISSIONARY WORK.
L. L. Work, of this place, does much
traveling over the country on business
bent, and he never loses an opportuni
ty to got in a good word for the Oka
nogan Country. Mr. Work has been
more active in spreading the gospel of
Okanogan titan any other one resident
of the cxmnty, largely owing to the op
portunities lie lias had, hut it is pleas
ing to bote that he is so loyal to the
country In which he lias made his
home for so many years. Saturday
there Was a large meeting of farmers
and dairymen held at Bellingham, at
which Prof. Thomas Shaw was the
chief speaker. Among others deliver
ing addresses was Mr. Work, and lie
expatiated upon the big irrigation sys
tem just about completed in Okanogan
county, and invited all who wished to
secure! homes to come over and inves
tigate,; It la getting out among farmers
and dgirytnen and letting them know
what there is here in the way of land
and opportunity that will help fill up
the country. Mr. Work also spoke be
fore tfae Chamber of Commerce of Bel
lingham, and the Dally Herald thus
mentions the address briefly:
"L. L. Work, the accredited repre
sentative of the Okanogan Irrigation
district, was present and spoke. Mr.
Work told the meeting that it was the
intention of the Okanogan farmers to
make Bellingham their water terminus
and his purpose in coming to Belling
ham was to acquaint Bellingham mer
chants and business men of this fact
in order that a stronger bond of com
mon interest might be cemented.”
SOCIALIST MEETINGS.
Local socialists claim they are go
ing to cut "some ice" in the presiden
tial campaign this year. They are not
waiting until the usual “open season"
for politics to begin, but announce that
arrangements have already been made
with the state lecture bureau of their
party for two educational lectures to
be given in a couple of months. The
first lecture will be on “Socialism, the
Hppp of the World,” by Mrs. G. H.
LdeKwood, of Kalamazoo, Michigan.
i-M fa t .ockwood Or one of the principals
of the Lockwood Art School, of Kala
mazoo. and for many years was asso
rted with her husband in the publica
tion of a humorous illustrate ! maga
zine called the “Billy Goat.” She is to
speak in the library building on Sun
day, March 12, at V p. m. About two
months later L. E. Kattlefield, state
secretary and national committeeman
of the socialist party of Washington,
will lecture here on “The Dawn of
Plenty.” Mr. Katterfleld was for three
years manager of the National Social
ist Lyceum Bureau, in Chicago, and is
considered an authority in socialistic
circles. These two lectures arc a part
of a state wide educational campaign
with which the socialists claim they
are going to reach practically every
town and hamlet in the state before
the other parties even got started.
VIOLENT EXPLOSION.
Early last Friday morning many ot
the residents of Oroville were awaken
ed by a terriffic explosion, but as
there was no further alarm the mo
mentary excitement subsided and
there was much speculation as to the
cause. Upon investigation it was ascer
tained that an acetylene generator at
tached to one of the passenger cars
on the Oroville-VVenatchee train had
exploded. It appears that Win. Colillo,
an Italian section hand filled the gene
rator with carbides, as is his practice,
but in this instance he forgot to turn
on the stopcock connecting the gene
rator with the storage tank. In conse
quence of this neglect the accumulat
ed gas burst the generator, causing
the terriffic explosion. Colillo was
propelled some distance by the force
of the explosion and was considerably
bruised and shaken up. A physician
was at once called, and on examina
tion it was found that Colillo had es
caped without serious injury and was
laid up for only a few days. Little
damage was done to the car.
M lilt A 111 A VS ItKPOKT.
Libararian's report for February,
1916; Number of books borrowed, 109;
number of applications, 16; fines col
lected, 2.‘) cents; donations, by L. 1,.
Work, XI volume thirteenth census ut
IT. S., 1910; volumes I, 11, 111, IV popu
lation; volumes V, VI, VII agricultur
al; VIII, IX, X manufacture; XI
mines and quarries. Thirteenth census
of the United States abstract with
supplement for Washington, 1910; re
port of the chief of the weather bureau
1912-13; commerce and navigation ot
the United States 1913; II volume of
wealth and debt and taxation, 1913; a
century of population growth, 1790-
1900; Indian population of the United
States and Alaska.
The library is open every Tuesday
and Saturday afternoon from 2:30 to
4:30. Saturday evening from 7 until 9.
SCOOPED.
The local high school basket ball
team met its Waterloo at Okanogan
last Friday night when Okanogan
scuttled the vlstors by a score of 42
to 28, It was the largest score of the
season, taken all around, and conse
quently the poorest game. Oroville has
defeated Okanogan twice, and Oka
nogan has turned the tables on Oro
ville twice, so honors are even. Both
teams won their games on their home
floor. The Okanogan floor space is
much larger than that of Oroville. The
Oroville boys w’ere lost when it came
to covering more territory than they
arc used to. Taking the season
through, counting all the games play
ed and won, the Oroville boys are far
la the lead over all opponents. They
have won two each from Republic,
Molson and Okanogan, and dropped
two to Okanogan, and Conconully flim
flammed them out of another. Taken
all in all the record for the season is
a very creditable one.
H. A. Stafford, who is connected with
the Woodbury Lumber company at
this place, is a skillful and thorough
musician. For some time he has been
filling the position of leader of the
local band, and under his direction
that organization has made marked
progress toward proficiency. Recently
orders were received to transfer Mr.
Stafford to Okanogan. The band boys
were dismayed at the prospect of los
ing such a valuable member, and they
appealed to the Commercial Club for
assistance in securing Mr. Stafford’s
retention at Oroville. A telegram was
sent to tlie Woodbury headquarters at
Spokane in the name of the Commer
cial Club, asking that the order re
quiring Mr. Stafford's transfer be re
scinded. It is a satisfaction to report
that the Woodbury company has grant
ed the request and no change will be
made. Besides being such a valuable
member of the band Mr. Stafford is a
very pleasant and likeable young gen
tleman personally, and all who know
him. within or outside of the band
membership, will be pleased to learn
that he will continue a resident of
Oroville.
A gehtleihan recently in Oroville,
who is familiar with the experience of
other irrigation districts in Eastern
Washington, declares that the people
living under the local system are more
favorable situated than those under
any other project that he knows of.
The reason he gives is on account of
the light fall of snow in this part of
the valley every winter. He was sur
prised that any one should feel that
the snow fall was heavy here this win
ter. Only a few inches were on the
ground at any one time and now the
ground is bare, while in other irriga
tion districts snow (all has been meas
ured by feet, and it still lingers to a
considerable depth. Other districts
suffer grevious damage from snow
every winter, while danger from that
source is almost wholly eliminated
under the West Okanogan Valley Irri
gation system. This gentleman de
clared that the climate of this locality
was ideal for the cheap mentainance
of an irrigation system. All of which
was very pleasant information to lis
ten to.
A most charming and delightful In
fantile party took place Saturday af
ternoon at the home of Mr. and Mrs. S.
B. Starrett, at which Mrs. L. F. Pour
tales assisted. Saturday was the natal
day of little Miss Florence Pourtales,
and the birthday anniversary of little
Miss Geraldine Starrett fell upon Sun
day, so It was decided by the parents
to give a double birthday party on Sat
urday for both children. It was a most
pleasing and happy gathering of little
folks that swarmed about the home of
the Starretts on this occasion, enjoyed
as much by the adults present as by
the merry little people. The favors
distributed were pretty paper caps.
Those present were Geraldine Starrett,
Florence Pourtales, Gene Murray, Lu
gene Taylor. Gladys Hoskyn, Elizabeth
Hoskyn, Luella DeGero, Bonnie Ander
son, Bernice Anderson, Louise Sand
erson, Ethel Gene Sanderson, Grace
Mitchell and Sidney Mitchell.
The pancake supper given by the
ladles of Trinity Guild Tuesday even
ing in the libary building was gener
ously patronized and every patron re
ceived full value on his Investment in
the shape of a lucious brand of the
cake that makes the boy happy, and
that even the adult goes up against
with a great deal of pleasure. No par
taker was turned away empty, because
under the rules of the game every
diner was entitled to all he or she
could store away.
One of the heavist snow storms of
the winter threw a mantle of white
ness over the valley last Thursday
night, and the immaculate lingered for
a number of days, with an adldtional
supply falling Sunday night. While
the storm was on snow fell like a
blanket. The weather was not disa
greeably cold, but the untimely visi
tation was anything but pleasant.
luimna
DISTRICT PAIR Ml IT I NO.
The meeting called to eonalder and ar
range for the holding of a dlatrict (air at
Orovllle next fall will take place la Odd
Kelowa hall to morrow (Saturday) after
noon at 1 o’clock. Thle (air will be carried
out to a euccestful flnieh, becauae those
behind the movement are enthusiastically
In earnest, and will recognise no such
word as fall. The Farmer’s union was the
primary mover in the proposition, and all
other organisations are invited to co-oper
ate In carrying out the plans. If weather
conditions are at all favorable a large at
tendance Is expected. While delegates will
represent various organisations and the
school districts, the meeting is open to the
public, and all who can do so should be
on hand, if not to take an active part In
the proceedings at least to lend every en
couragement by their presence. This es
pecially applies to the residents and busi
ness men of the town. President Lewis
of the Commercial Club appointed as a
committee to represent the club at the
meeting, W. O. Hamlsch, Roy Vincent and
.1. A. Hlat kler. While these gentlemen are
the official and accredited representatives
of the Commercial club, as many other
members of the organisation as can do
so should make it a point to be there, as
the club Is In a position as an organisa
tion, to lend very material help In aiding
the project.
WOODCRAFT KNTgRTAINS.
At a regular meeting of the Women of
Woodcraft, held In Odd Fellowa hall
Tuesday evening, a large class was Initia
ted. After the ceremonies numerous guests
were admitted and the following pro
gram was rendered:
Recitation—"An Old Charter,”
Mrs. K. E. Truax
Address on Fraternity
..District Organiser Mary A. Anderson
Instrumental Solo Mrs. Wauch
Recitation—"Silent Thoughts,"
Jessie Mitchell
Song Hermenie Orleger
Vocal Duet
Helen Hamlsch and Elisabeth Orathwold
Recitation —“Be a Booster,”
Jeanette Stoits
Song Constantine Orelger
Instrumental Solo Mrs. Wauch
Closing Music by Orchestra
The hall was beautifully decorated with
the colors of the order, and tables In the
banquet hall were decorated with flowers,
colors and good things to eat. After the
banquet dancing formed the feature of
the evening's entertainment until 2 o'clock
In the morning. All returned to their
homes voting the Women of Woodcra:t
Ideal hostesses, and well pleased that they
had been so fortunate as to be numbered
among the participants.
District Organiser Anderson leaves this
week to resume work In another Held.
While we regret her departure we appre
ciate the work she accomplished during
her visit, and wish her God speed. We
trust she will come again. The lessons of
fraternity that she practiced among us I
trust will remain with many through
life.
MAGGIE SPENCER,
Guardian Neighbor, Circle No.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
(Rev. G. H. Severance, Vicar.)
Services held every first and third
Sundays at 11 a. m. There will be no
services on next Sunday. Sunday
school as usual at 12 o’clock. Have you
seen our Sunday school? It Is rapidly
increasing because it is based on mod
ern pedagogical methods. Everybody
Is Invited.
M. E. CHURCH SERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching
services at 11 a. m. by Bro. A. J. Spencer,
Bpworth League at 6:30 p. m. Topic, “The
Urgency of a Great Task.” Neh. 8:3 Luke
2:49; 9:52: 12:35-37; Matt. 16-22. Miss
Miller, leader. Preaching service at 7:20.
Subject of sermon, “The Price of a Soul."
Revival services now going on. This is the
time to get right with God. Everybody
welcome; everybody invited; everybody
come. The homelike church and the
stranger’s friend. W. W. STRITE.
Pastor.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Preaching morning and evening. Morn
ing service at 11 o’clock, subject of ser
mon, “A Personal Question.' Evening
service 7:30, subject of sermon, “Win
there be few or many saved?"
Sunday school at 10 o’clock. We have a
live, growing school. Mr. Judson Murray
will lead the adult bible class. This class
gives a tine opportunity for impres
sion and expression. Come and study the
Book of Books.
We give you a hearty Invitation to all
our services. A. W. BOND, Pastor.
STRONG BILL AT THE LYRIC.
Manager Geo. Stultx this week has pro
vided some thing different In the way of
amusement for his patrons, having book
for Saturday and Sunday “The Fighting
Hope/' in which Laura Hope Crews is
the star around which revolves a most
.complicated plot. The story tells of the life
drama of a noble wife who strives to
prove the Innocence of her unworthy con
vict husband, and the outcome is start
ling. to say the least. It Is a story of faith,
hope and trust and the reward that goes
to the brave.
Quite a number of the friends and
neighbors of Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Gregg
foregathered at Dr. Masters residence
i uesday evening and spent the evening
playing five hundred and whist. It was the
occasion of the tenth anniversary of the
marriage of Mr. and Mrs. Gregg. All pres
ent enjoyed an exceedingly pleasant even
ing. Mrs. L. D. Oliver was awarded the
lady's prize for the greatest number of
progressions, and O. L. Armstrong carried
away the gentlemen's prise. Bet it was
honestly coming to him.
SIXTY-DAYS SUMMONS.
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, in and for the county of
Okanogan.
Louis Oppenstein, Plaintiff,
vs.
Peerless Hotel Co., a Corporation, and
Harry Kosenhaupt, Trustee, Defendants.
The State of Washington to the Peerless
Hotel Company, defendant:
You are hereby summoned to appear
within sixty days after the first publica
tion of this summons, to-wlt: within siztv
days after the Uth day of February, 19X4,
and defend the above entitled action In the
court aforesaid and answer the complaint
of the plaintiff, and serve a copy of your
answer on the undersigned, attorneys (or
plaintiff, at their address below given; and
In case of your failure so to do. Judgment
will be rendered against you according to
the demand of said complaint; which com
plaint has been filed with the clerk of said
court.
The object of said action is to obtain
judgment quieting plaintiffs title In and
to the South 12 1-2 feet of Lot 2 and all of
Lots 3, 4, 6, and 6 in Block II of the Town
of Orovllle. Okanogan county, Washing
ton, and adjudging him to be the owner
thereof In fee and restraining the defend
ants from asserting any right or title
therein.
TOLMAN * KINO.
Attorneys for Plaintiff. Address: 1112
Old National Bank Building, Spokane,
Washington. 2-11 M
