HOME EDITION
t.
r
TODAY'S PRICES
I xiran bank notea (tate bills) 8011
Mexican pes" 44 Ncionales 5
nrranr currency 3 Bar ""i'r'
f IXandA & Harmon quotations) 66
Coptw J2 00 28 60 Grains hither
Ll.Hto'-k steady Stocks lower.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
American Troops Hear With
Joy News Of Decision io
Fully Punish Villa.
THREE CARRANZA
LEADERS IN FIELD
Expect lo Attack Villa From
Flanks and Rear While
U.S. Hits Him in Front.
COLLMUUS, N. M.. March 10. Mili
tary authorities alone the border
here today were unanimously In
favor of Immediate pursuit and pun
ishment of Franclsca Villa. Joy was
manifested when It became known the
president bad ordered a punitive ex
pedition to go after Villa.
Carrnnclstaa Expect Cooperation.
MaMgea have be'en received here
statnfthat"Cirran4 cavalry had left
Tetnanr -to attack the bandit cWef Iir
the rear with the expectation that
Mnerlcan troops, whom they supposed
i have already crotsed the border,
would attack him in front.
The Carranza troops, it was stated,
'ai iled a black and white flag to notify
iln American troops of their identity,
uen. Gavira. commanding at Juarez, has
the bandit's escape to the eastward
blocked and official information from
Agua Prieta was to the effect that
military Gov. P. Ellas Calles had dis
posed troops in the last 24 hours to cut
"Villa off from entry Into Sonora.
Seventh Cavalry Ltun Ilnchlta.
dvlces from the west stated that
he cntlro Seventh cavalry under CoL
I i win had left Hachlta for Culberson's
mnili on the border.
A troop of cavalry Is reported en
toute from Douglas. Ariz., to Hachlta.
r.e troop of tho Seventh cavalry was
s nt to Alamo Hueco ten miles from
the border, south of Hachlta. Ameri-
-n cavalrymen at Dog Springs are
guarding all routes across the boun
dary in tbat section of New Mexico.
Disposition of Troopa.
Other United States troops were dis
posed today as follows:
First battalion, 20th Infantry, at Vic
toria, 22 miles east; troops G. 13th
ravalry, three miles south of Colum
bus six troops 11th cavalry in camp
with machine guns platoon at Colum
'ius, heavy patrols all alone railroad
lino from Hachlta to Columbus.
The disposition of the troops of the
Carranza government In the state of
"hihuahua and Sonora, within the last
it hours, indicated that a concerted
effort had been started to corner Villa
in ino huiuiwim; pari, ui minuanua.
C'allea Guards Mountain Puaae.
Gen. Calles at Agua Prieta opposite
T'ouglas, Ariz, said he had disposed of
his forces along the railroad south
of Nacozarl to the border placing his
men In squads of SO to 160 to guard the
mountain passes througli which Villa
and his forces might be expected -to
pag westward Into Sonora.
Gen. Luis Gutierrez is reported ad
Tanclng from the south to complete
hemming In Villa.
Vllllstna lteportcvl Sear Border.
Army border patrols and armed
civilians today maintained a close
natch for the reappearance of Mex
nan bandits along the border. A
report that armed Mexicans had ap
peared opposite Gibson's ranch, IB miles
west, was being investigated by mili
tary authorities. Immediately on re-
eipt "t this report, a considerable
boilv of rullians left here in automo
biles. Unconfirmed rumors that Mexi
cans were near Victoria were received.
Train Crew Heavily Armed.
Train No 8 -)f the El Paso & South
western railroad, castbound, reached
here at 9 a. m with the crew and most
passengers heavily armed. The train
crew reported all quiet at Hachlta and
Victoria, where American cavalry and
In ran try were posted.
Troops are scattered all along the
road from Hachlta to Columbus
75 Mexican Bead ricked Up.
Soldiers and citizens divided atten
tion to the vigil along the international
boundary with the work of clearing
Tl ursday's battle field of Mexican dead.
EiHv in the day approximately 75
Mix lean dead had been found on the
American side and were either buried
or burned They were pointed to by
Mm-rican officials as an evidence of
the effectiveness of the fire of the
vmfnean troops.
MaJ Tompkins, who jesterday after
noon returned to Columbus with troop
c rs that followed Villa Into Mexico.
estimated the Mexican dead In the
battle with Villa's rear at fully 100.
Several A onnded Mexicans Found.
several wounded Mexicans, who had
lain out all night, were found In the
brush and taken to the army hospital.
(nmmnnleatlon Equipment Locking.
Lack of field telegraph and telephone
equipment, it was learned, was respon
sible for the delay in the arrival of
two troops of cavalry from the station
1 All Honor
SINGLE COPr
CRUCES MAN
MM
TROOPS
JHE CLOSE GALL FBI CAPTURE
Small Band of American Soldiers, Ahead of Main Body
in Pursuit of Villa, Com e Near Being Captured by
the Villa Bandits Five Miles Over the Border
in Mexico; Their Horses Are Shot Down.
COLUMBUS, JT. M., March 10 Only
by the sheorest good fortune did
MaJ. Frank Tompkins and 35
troopers of the 13th United States cav
alry escape with their lives from Mex
ico Thursday afternoon. One corporal
of his command was reported killed.
After chasing the Villa bandits all
day and five miles over the border Into
Mexico, the major and his small band
of followers got so far in advance of
the other pursuing American troops
that the Mexicans turned for the first
time during the daj-'s running fight
and opened fire on their pursuers; not
only that, but the Mexicans seeing
the small party of American soldiers
unsupported by reinforcements, turned
and charged at them.
Ma Tompkins was shot through the
hat during the fighting, his horse was
shot through the head and it was nec
essary for him to abandon It Two
other ho-f-es of the command .were
wcunded and had to be abandoned, al
though no American soldiers were shot.
75 Mexican Killed.
MaJ. Tompkins stated that there
were 76 Mexicans killed during the
tunnlncJlght-whloh ifollpwed the ap
proach oi the mounted United States
troops to those of Villa. The fighting
was a running one on horse back most
of the day, the U. S troops keeping
under cover of the foothills and sand
dunes as they advanced until MaJ.
Tompkins's command reached tho open
country.
The fighting was done by villa
troops on the defensive until the open
country was reached when, upon see
ing how few MaJ. Tompkins's troops
were, they turned and started a des
perate action which might have exter
minated the little band of troops had
It not been for a daring pistol cavalry
at" the Gibson's ranch. Word of the
Columbus fighting was not received
there until 8 oclock. Although MaJ.
Elmer Llndsley started Immediately it
was almost two hours later before he
reached Columbus with his two troops.
Lopez Had Kvana'a I'ocketbook.
The pocketbook of T M Evans, one
of the IS Americans massacred January
10, at Santa Ysabel. Chihuahua, was
found on the body of tho Mexican offi
cer. Identified as Pablo Lopez, second
In command to Villa. Wounded Mexi
cans said it was generally stated
among Villa troops that while Lopez
led in the massacre, he acted without
order from Villa.
Gen. Garcia Tiles.
Two Mexicans wounded died at the
American army hospital here during
the night One of these was a Villa
general named Garcia.
More Troopa Pntrot Border.
Federal troops In Increased numbers
today patrolcd the Mexican border near
Columbus as a precaution against
further invasions of American territory
... C....I..K villa's bandit army, which
Thursday in a surprise attack upon this
town, killed American citizens and sol
diers wounded many, burned buildings
and looted stores before being- driven
back Into Mexico by American troops.
Villa, at the head of the main body
of bandits, was last reported 15 miles
south of the International line by
American troops who, in a running
fight pursued the attackers.
B w ci-not Fires Are Seen.
Signal fires of Villa's force last night
were seen along the border for several
miles and the possibility of an attempt
at further invasion of American terri
tory was admitted in military circles
20o Infantry Battalion Arrives.
The first reinforcement arrived early
this morning, when the first battalion
of 20th infantry, 250 men, under MaJ.
W It Sample, arrived from Fort Bliss
on a special train. The battalion, after
receiving a fresh supply of ammuni
tion, was dispatched by CoL II J. Slo
cum, commanding tho troops here to
Victoria. 32 miles west
Other troops were reported to have
been dispatched at various points along
the border
Citizens and Militia Aid Patrol.
Before the arrival of reinforcements,
armed civilians, state militiamen and
cowboys were cooperating with the fed
eral authorities in maintaining a bor
der patrol
The pusult of Villa and his men
by 260 American soldiers under MaJ.
Frank Tompkins and MaJ. Elmer Llnds
ley consisted of a running fight which
ended when the Villa forces took a de
termined stand, after reaching a series
of hills IE miles south of the border.
The casualties to the American forces
during this battle consisted of Ithe
death of a corporal and the wounding
of Cant George Williams, who sus
tained a bullet wound in the hand. The
Mexican casualties in the engagement
were reported at from 76 to 100 Killed.
100 Jlexlcnns Killed) 200 Wounded
The attempt of Villa to carry out his
threat "to kill all Americans" proved
disastrous to his numbers. It is esti
mated that more than 100 Mexicans
were killed and twice that number
wounded in the assault upon Columbus
In addition to the 16 killed by Villa's
men In Columbus several others are be
lieved to have been executed bv the
bandit chieftain, before the American
To the 13tb, Which Took the Bit In Its Teeth and Scorched 'Em
FIVE CENTSL
RILL HI 75
charge by Capt Jens Stedje, who was
in command of another detachment of
tho troops advancing toward the Villa
command and which arrived juat in
time.
Brilliant Charge.
This pistol charge was a brilliant
one, according to the other command
ers, and the cavalrymen did much ex
ecution with their automatic pistols
which they reloaded with clips a num
ber of times. This charge served to
cover the. retreat of MaJ. Tompkins and
his command and It was during this
sharp engagement that MaJ Tompkins's
hat was punctured and his horse killed.
He took another trooper's horse and
brought the trooper back with him.
2Vo Prisoners Taken.
No Mexican prisoners were taken by
the U. S. troops, according to the re
turning troopers No effort was made
to relieve the wounded Mexicans. One
soldier of Uncle Sam was killed in
this pursuit of Villa and two of
the troopers" horses were killed In ad
dition to that of MaJ. -Tompkins.
Feeling- Illfih.
The feeling In Columbus Thursday
night was tense. It was reported by
long distance phone. The civilians were
armed and were walking guard In the
streets. Many strangers were in town
and were armed and the eavalry pa
trols were everywhere. The array of
ficers were of the general opinion that.
If they were permitted to take suffi
cient troops and supplies across the
line. Villa could be captured with his
entire band. The offlcors say they
know where Tie is, but that it will
take a good sized force to capture him.
It was learned last .night that J. J.
Moore, the merchant who was killed
at his ranch home, was mutilated after
being shot, his head being pounded in
and his bodr cut with sabers. His
wife is in a serious condition.
invasion. Arthur McKinney. Wm. Cor
bett and James O'Neill, employes of the
Palomas Land and Cattle company,
which property was raided on March 1.
were taken prisoner and no trace of
them has since been found. Edward
John Wright and Edward Hayden,
taken prisoner near Pearson Chihua
hua, recently, are also believed to have
been killed
Mrs. Wright Itelenseil.
Mrs. Maud Hawk Wright wife of John
Edward Wright was taken prisoner with
her husband, and after nine days In
captlvltly, was released yesterday dur
ing the height of the battle before Co
lumbus. Her baby, Bhe said, was taken
from her and she was told, given to a
Mexican family.
Spies Vlalled Colnmbns.
Mrs. Wrlcht told how she learned
Villa had premeditated the attack on
Columbus and of the privations en
dured by the bandits in their overland
Journey to their objective.
In carrying out his plans for the at
tack. Villa sent spies in advance to
study the situation and report the
strength of the American forces sta
tioned at Columbus. In connection with
this alleged method, Lebardo Marquez,
a Mexican resident was arrested Thurs
day, and charged with having given in
formation to Villa's spies, and to have
pointed out to the marauders the home
in which prominent Americans lived.
Search Mexican Ilomea for Arms.
a aenrrh of Mexican homes for" arms
was also made by the" federal authori
ties It is believed here Villa depended
upon tho assistance of resident Mexi
cans In carrying out his massacre.
A telegram ostensibly from the man
ager of the Palomas Cattle company,
received here Thursday, is now believed
to have been sent bv Villa himself as
ruse to cloak his movements Accord
ingly, when Villa was thought many
miles from Columbus, he crept on the
city and In darkness opened fire and
applied the torch. ..,.,,,,
Cnaa Grnndea Colonlata Attacked.
Mrs. Wright who Is being cared for
by the wife of CoL Slocum. is Improv
ing slowly from her experience with the
Mexican raiders She expressed the be
lief that colonists at Casas Grandes, 100
miles below Columbus, have suffered at
the hands of Villa's men. No definite
reports from Casas Grandes have been
received, but rumors have been circu
lated that two persons were killed when
Villa passed through the district
Ilrndy to Whip lIHn Again.
With the first battalion of the SOth
Infantry stationed at Victoria early to
day CoL Slocum has about 810 men un
der'his command, prepared to meet any
further advances by Villa on American
"if he comes again, we will give him
a worse whipping than we gave him
yesterdav," said Col. Slocum.
Early today no signs of Villa's return
from the hills was apparent
Women and Children In School House.
Armed civilians during the night were
on guard at the school house, where
their wives and daughters spent the
night The Mexican quarter was closely
guarded bv patrols. The town was quiet
and dark, except for the glowing em
bers of the ruins of the hotel.
Tho commanding officer of the Sev
enth cavalry, patrollng the border west
of here near Gibson's ranch was noti
fied to watch for any attempt ! Mxl
cans to cross the border it points b ad
(Contlnaed on page 5, Col. 4.)
' aj w as '
EL PASO. TEXAS. FRIDAY EVENING. MARCH 10
VILLA
C. 0. MILLER, B
STflTE ENGINEER.
un
Was a Graduate Of New
Mexico A.&M. College
At Mesilla Park.
MASTER OF MASONS
ATTULAROSAtN.M.
Drove lo Columbus on Land
Deal Wednesday; Left
Wife In Rincon.
BY means of a S2nd degree Masonic
ring with the rame "C DeWItf"
engraved on the Inside of the gold
band, the body of Charles De Witt
Miller, former state engineer of New
Mexico and a brother of J. O. Miller
of Las Cruces, N. M, was Identified
after being taken from the ruins of
" commercial notei In Columbus Fri
day mcrning.
Mr. Miller had gone to Columbus
Wednesday In an automobile ho had
bought In EI Paso oarller In the week
ter eaamwio- 60.008 acres of-laia near
there which he. expected to sell to east
ern men He, had luncheon with his
brother J. O Miller at Las Cruces Wed
nesday at noon and drove to Columbus
In the afternoon, taking a room at the
Commercial that evening.
Saw King.
When tho unidentified body was re
moved from the ruin3 of the hotel the
Masonic ring was rectgnlzed by a Mason
in the rescue party and It was found
to be engraved on the inside with
Miller's name. He was master of the
Tularota, N. M., Masonic lodge and a
membet of the Santa Fe Scottish Rite
lodge.
A. . 31. Graduate.
He graduated from the A. & M. col
lege at State College In 1906 while his
brother J. O. Miller, was registrar.
After graduation he became assistant
territorial engineer and was appointed
state engineer when Vernon Sullivan
resigned and held this office until
governor McDonald was elected when
he retired from oftico and engaged In
the land business with headquarters
at Tularosa.
Mrs. Miller at Illncon.
Mrs. Miller stopped at Iilncon, N. M-,
with the family of her brotherlnlaw,
Leo F. Elliott while Mr. Miller drove
on to Columbus. The body will be
brought here Saturday morning by J.
O. Miller, who drove to Columbus Fri
day afternoon with H. B. Holt and W.
A. Sutherland. The body will I a tak
en to Las Cruces Saturday for burlaL
He was 27 years old and his father R.
J. Miller lives at the Kane hotel In
Denver A sister,. Miss Pearl Miller Is
a teacher at the A. & M. college.
Ill rnao Trumpeter Killed.
Capt Walter Jenkins, of the local
militia company, received a message
from Col. H. J. Slocum Thursday night
saying that W. A. Davidson, of company
K, Texas national I guard, had been
killed during the fight at Columbus.
Davidson was a trumpeter In company
K and had been a resident of El Paso
for six years. Prior to coming here he
(Continued on rage 2, Col. 3)
KCVISHD CASUALTY LIST
OF FIGIITIG AT COLUMBCS
Of the IS Americana killed nt Co
Inmbua and the. fighting In Mexico
which followed, nine were civilians
nnd nine aoldlera. The revised cas
nnlty list followat
KILLED.
"W. C. Illtchle, hotel proprietor.
W. It. AValker. cnatoma rider.
C. C. Miller, druggist.
Mrs. Milton Jniuc, wife of E. P.
A. S. W. pumper.
J. S. Denn.
J. J. Moore.
Dr. Ilnrry Hart, 111 I'nso.
W. A. Davlditun, III 1'nso.
Chnrlea Dcvvltt Miller, Albuquer
que. . M.
Ilnrry IVIswnld. corporal troop G.
I'rnnk T. Kendvnll, horse shoer
troop K.
Corp. Paul Simon.
John INelvergelt, bnnd sergrnnt.
I'red A. Griffin, prtvnte troop K.
Serg. Mars A. Dobs, machine gun
troop.
Thomas F. Ilntler. troop F.
I nnniued corporal.
Jraae P. Tnvlor, troop F, wounded,
died nt Fort nils.
wou'NDnn.
Milton James.
M. Pnclie.
lira. J. J. Moore.
Lieut. C. C. Benaon, troop G.
Theodore Knliorke, troop I,.
Mlchnel Bnrmnzel, machine gnn
Iroop.
John Ynrhorough, troop K.
Jnmes tenner, troop VI.
John Keough, troop G.
Cnpt. George William, regimrntnl
ndjutnnt.
Jnnicn Veeder, private troop If.
All the VTOonded nre expected ts
recov er.
ILEDJ
DELIVERED
VICTIM
All Movements Of
Villisias Are Watched
Movement of nil Vllllstna In Kl
l'aao nre being watched by the po
lice and the first Indication that
they are Retting Into communication
with Villa or showing any active
sympathy with hi movement, -will
result In action by the police. It la
declared. Every movement of the
former Villa leader or frlenda of
the Villa fnmlly la being watched
by the police.
SEi WOMEN ID
Columbus Citizens Sending
Their Families to El
Paso; Scare Friday.
Columbus, K M.. March 10. All wom
en and children are being sent to El
Paso to prevent any recurrence of the
tragedy of Thursday morning. All of
the women were placed on board the
Golden State limited this morning for
El Paso.
On the same train went Milton James,
who was wounded, and he will be placed
In ther hospital there for treatment. His
wife was killed. H was tho South
western pumper.
A scare occurred at noon today when
a clouo. of dust and troops were seen
moving near the border south of Co
lumbus A lieutenant of the 13th cavalry rode
out to investigate and discovered that
the dust was caused by two troops of
the 13th cavalry scouting.
Excitement Increase.
It had not been learned here that the
United States had ordered a punitive
expedition to pursue Villa into Mexico
until The Herald's long distance tele
phone message was received. This In
creased the excitement here.
It was reported that a German ranch
er named Hoppe had been killed at his
ranch eight miles west of Columbus, on
the American slide of the line but this
was later denied.
The body df W. C. Richie, proprietor
of the Commercial hotel, who was shot
and his body thrown Into the flames,
was sent to El Paso today for burial.
No more wounded were sent there.
Seventy citizens from Columbus
reached El Paso Friday afternoon at
2:05 on the Golden State lllmted. There
were 25 women, 15 children and 10
men.
The body of W. C. Richie, who was
killed and his body thrown In the ho
tel when it was burred, was brought
here or. this train and will be burled
at Evergreen cemetery. The body was
accompanied by Mrs. Richie, the widow,
and by Miss Edna Richie and Mrs. M.
English, daughters of the dead man,
and W N. Meek, the soninlavv.
Mrs. Richie, who was in the hotel at
the time of tho raid, had her rings,
which were stolen from her by a Vlllis
ta. returned to her before she left Fri
day morning for El Paso. The man
was wounded and dying. Mrs. Richie
said, and he sent the rings back to
her with a note In Spanish saying that
he was sorry he took them. The rings
Included a diamond, a turquoise and
a small silver ring.
Mrs. Maud Hawk Wright who was
made a prisoner of Villa down In Mex
ico and liberated when he attacked
Columbus, arrived on this train. Villa
killed her husband and gave her baby
to a Mexican woman
12,000 TROOPS
OJOROEII
48 Mountain Batteries and
Field Guns Between El
Paso and Douglas.
Washington, D C. March 10. Ap
proximately 12,000 troops with 4S
mountain batteries and field guns are
on the border between Douglas, Ariz.,
and EI Paso, Tex. A little more than
one-third of that force Is cavalry and
all could be assembled at any point
between the two towns within two
days The cavalry and a battalion of
mountain artillery with 12 mountain
guns, especially designed for the char
acter of fighting which the punitive
expedition will wage, could be assem
bled within 2 hours
The 13th, Seventh, Eighth and Tenth
cavalry are scattered along the border
between Douglas and El Paso. The
11th. ISth and 22d Infantry, the Sixth
field artillery and a battalion of the
fourth mountain artillery are at Doug
las. At El Paso are four regiments of
infantrv. the Sixth. Seventh, 16th and
20th The 12th infantry Is at Nogales,
between Columbus and Douglas,
CUi H
ANYWHERB CENTS A MONTH.
Expedition is to Be Merely Punitive and Not to Con
stitute Intervention; TJ. S. Relations With Carranza
Are Friendly and Movement is to Be One of Car
ranza and United States Against Common Foe.
SAN ANTONIO. Tex., March 10. Maj. Gen. Frederick Furuton will
personally command the expedition which will invade Mexico and capture
Villa, unless the war department orders otherwise.
Gen. Funston is at Fort Sam Houston here awaiting explicit instructions.
A preliminary concentration of border troops already is under way.
EXICO CITY, Mex., March
make a statement ji regard ta
v.oiumous, ix. ivi. a ngia censorsnip nas Dcen imposed. lewspapers
are printing nothing of the raid and the public has not been advised of it
AiSHINGTON, D. C, March 10. This afternoon secretary of war
Baker called the army general staff in session to perfect plans for the
expedition of 5000 men against Gen. Villa ordered by president Wil
son today. Gen. Funston was asked for any recommendations. It was indi
cated that movements would be made from several points on the border at the
same time.
The punitive expedition, it was announced today by the war department,
is to go into Mexico with one purpose only, and that is to take Francisco Villa
"dead or alive" as punishment for the attack on Columbus, N. M.
The Mexican embassy received a telegram from Gen. Carranza late
today saying that 5000 troops from various garrisons to the south had been
ordered to move upon the Villa bands. No mention was made of the pro
posal of the United States to send forces.
DOES NOT MEAN INTERVENTION.
In its present stage the president's order does not mean armed intervention
in Mexico. It provides for an expedition to deal with lawless forces over which
the Carranza government has no control.
Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff, announced first details of the
expedition following a conference with secretary of war Baker who had just
learned the iew of president Wilson. The expedition was unanimously
approved at the cabinet session today.
Gen. Scott said today that the necessity of providing even a stronger
force for the border than it now has, while the American troops are operating
in Mexico, would necessitate using some troops not now there for the punitive
expedition. They probably will be ordered from other posts. No plans have
been made so far as is known for use of the national guard.
WHITE HOUSE STATEMENT.
The following statement was issued at the white house:
"An adequate force will be sent at once in pursuit df Villa with the single
object of capturing him and putting a stop to his forays.
"This can be done and done in entirely friendly aid of the constituted
authorities in Mexico and scrupulous respect f6r the sovereignty of that re
public." "VILLA DEAD OR ALIVE."
It was said at the white house that the American government want
Villa dead or alive and that no steps will be neglected to carry out that object.
NAVY TO PROTECT AMERICANS.
No orders had been issued to the navy this afternoon, but it was considered
probable that some of the Atlantic fleet might be placed in Mexican waters to
be near if Americans in coast towns were endangered by anti-American demon-
strations. The government is reluctant
might be construed as against Gen. Carranza.
CARRANZA WON'T RESENT.
Eliseo Arredondo, Gen. Carranza's ambassador here, received the news
of the president's decision with the statement that he could make no comment
and would at once notify Gen. Carranza. Yesterday he declared it was his
own opinion that such action would not be resented.
lamnet I l nnnlmou.
Tt was deolared tho United States
will carry on negotiations with the
Carranza government It was decided
that the peace of both Mexico and the
United States is Imperilled by the con
tinued activities of Fran-lsoo Villa. The
cabinet was unanimous in deciding that
Villa must be caught
Resolution! Introduced.
Senator McCumber. Republican, of
North Dakota, introduced a resolution
In the senate today, providing that
congress shall direct the president to
immediately send an armed force into
Mexico "to hunt and destroy" murder
ing bands guilty of atrocities against
American citizens.
Senator Fall Introduced his resolu
tion providing for the recruiting of
500,000 volunteers to police Mexico
Approve Mocum' vt.
Administration officials, far from
WEATHER rORKCAST.
KI rao and nct Trxai, fair;
Mezlco nml Arizona, fair.
SIXTEEN PAGES TODAY.
10. Gen. Carranza dees not care to
the JttuUion.nlaalpftg-Jjora the raid of
to make any naval demonstration that
disapproving the pursuit of the Amer
ican troops. In following Villa Thurs
day praised their action and expressed
regret that Villa himself had not been
taken.
The return of the American troops
from Mexico complicated the- situation
somewhat because the United States
now Is confronted with the necessity of
issuing orders if they go in again.
Officials openly said they had hoped
the troops once having crossed on a
good pretext would remain until Villa
and his band were disposed of.
Call Villa Scoundrel.
Cabinet members generally expressed
Indignation over the act of the bandits.
Villa was characterm d as "that scoun
drel" bj one usn illv conservative mem
ber At the s itn time- tit cabinet mem
(Coatinaed on page & Col. 1.)
