«»
VOLUME XXVIII
TWO MEN CLAIM
I SAME THREE PIGS
ono Charged With Larceny, the
other With Carrying Concealed
Weapons Court Business
Booms
Justice Geo. Henry's court In the
Flatiron building was the scene of
unusual activity this week as a re
sult of a well defined argument be
tween J. W. Hampton, a Whelan
farmer, and J. E. Sherfey, a Pull
man blacksmith, over the ownership
of three aristocratic pigs, and, while
the main court event is not sched
uled until tomorrow the court is al
ready $25 better off as a result of
the preliminaries, and Judge Henry
is holding in trust a wicked looking
but valuable Colt's automatic, pend
ing a more peaceable frame of mind
by its owner.
The fireworks started when Sher
fey, who recently sold his farm
equipment and moved to Pullman,
purchasing the Pearson & Leuty
blacksmith shop, journeyed to the
farm home of Hampton, his former
neighbor, last Monday afternoon,
loaded three pigs which he claimed
as his own into his wagon and drove
back to Pullman. He was closely
followed by the irate Hampton, who
also claimed the porkers, and who
informed against Sherfey, alleging
larceny, and demanded the issuance
of a warrant for the latter's arrest.
The warrant was forthcoming, but
upon the assumption that the case
should be a civil one, involving only
j the ownership of the pigs, service of
\ the papers was delayed pending ad
! vice from the prosecuting attorney's
' office.
The public prosecutor ruled that
the case should go to trial and Slier
fey will be given a preliminary hear
ing tomorrow In Judge Henry's
court.
In the meantime the feeling be
tween the erstwhile neighbors was
at a fever heat, and an unnatural
bulge in the side pocket of Hampton
aroused the suspicions of police of
ficers, with the result that the in
formant in the first case was im
mediately made the defendant in a
second, in which carrying concealed
weapons was charged. Upon a plea
of guilty, Hampton was fined $20
and costs, amounting to $25, which
he paid. The defendant is said to
have stated that he was carrying the
weapon because he was fearful of
trouble with Sherfey, whom he said
was a larger man than himself.
A mild furore was occasioned in
the court room when Chief of Police
Wagner, upon being assured that
the only shells in the weapon were
in the magazine, which had been re
moved, pressed the trigger and sent
a bullet crashing into the wall.
Both the parties to the contro
versy are well known and the case is
attracting unusual attention. The
story told by Sherfey, which he will
Probably reiterate on the stand to
morrow, is that at the time he sold
his farm requisites he retained a
thoroughbred sow, which was soon
to farrow, and intrusted her to the
Care of Hampton, leaving feed and
entering into a verbal agreement
wit the latter that each would take
roe-half th litter, Shwfey to retain
title to the sow.
He states that recently he went
or the sow and his share of the
JW, but that Hampton permitted
«*» J take only the mother, claim
»* the entire litter himself. Sher
«>- sought legal counsel in the mat
thad states that he was advised
anii. the Pigs were his property
J he could get them without un
£S*C— 6 ' he wou,d be within his
gnu, in taking them. Hampton de
th« n hat Sherfey nad any right to
_ml.„ ' and Claims that the Mack
tookV omniitted ***** When he
NEW REALTY FIRM
with „fa. h° mas Realty company.
Pullma " &tIU Grand Btreet' is
Th« an 8 late*' ,niß'ness enterprise.
Prank o Th Pany ' Whlch i 8 headed **
dad a fhomas, recently from Trlni
cialtv „anf„ CoUnty ' wIU make a BPe-
PanvV Phoenix Lumber com
ity C_n°„ er ,and 9in Stevena
tasurai',, I! kfndß °f real estate and
" business will be handled.
The Pullman Herald
Devoted to the best ii.tere.t_ of Pullman and the best farming community in the Northwest surrounding it.
i.vwt.i 'cation i:.\i;i:< isi:s
The college is anxious to have the
assistance of the people of Pullman
in making the Inauguration of Presi
dent Holland .March 23 and 2 I a
truly notable even! in the history of
i he institution.
The main event will, of course, lie
the' inaugural exercises which occur
at 10:00 o'clock Friday morning,
March _i. and to this the people of
Pullman are especially invited.
in view of the large number of
delegates, guests and visitors in addi
tion to our own students who will be
in attendance, careful arrangements
must he made' in advance to provide
adequate seating capacity in the au
ditorium. For this reason, while no
charge will be made, admission will
be by non-transferrable ticket exclu
sively, if Pullman people who desire
tickets for the adult members of their
family (children will not he admit
ted) will address the Inaugural Com
mittee, College Station, giving the
names of persons for whom they de
sire tickets and enclosing stamped,
addressed envelope for reply, such
requests will receive attention and
tickets will he mailed Friday even
ing, March 17. It will probably he
impossible to consider applications
received after that date.
ASKS $1064 EOR
PERSONAL INJURIES
Mis. A. I). Brunhain Files Claim
Against City lor Alleged Injuries
Sustained in Fall on Slippery
Walks
Claiming that she suffered a frac
tured left ankle at the joint, together
with numerous and diverse other ail
ments mentioned In medical terms
which were too much for the report
er, in a fall mi Kamiaken street the
evening of February 1, Mrs. A. 1).
Branhan has filed a claim for dam
ages with the city authorities which
asks the payment of $1064. The
claimant alleges that the fall was due
to the "dangerous and unsafe condi
tion of the street and sidewalk, oc
casioned by the alleged negligence of
the city in not removing the snow
and Ice therefrom. The claim was
referred to the- city attorney.
The claimant asks $:',. r. as relief
for payments made' for medical
service and an additional $20 for
probable further medical attention.
Five dollars is asked as payment for
crutches, while the item for nursing
and care for two months, at $1 per
day, is $60. Sixty-six dollars is the
amount claimed for loss of earnings
as a dressmaker, at $3'per day. up
to the time the claim was filed, and
the claimant estimates that she will
be incapacitated for an additional
26 days, amounting to $78. She
asks $800 additional damages on ac
count of the pain and suffering in
cidental to the accident.
ASSFSSOKS ACTIVE;
PROPERTY SLUMPS
The annual spring slump in prop
erty valuations, incidental to the
commencement of activities by the
field deputy assessors, is on in earn
est, and the assessors can vouch for
the fact that Pullman is the home
of as many talented pervaricators in
regard to valuations as any town its
size in the county (Colfax excepted).
Many a property holder has cut the
estimated value of his property in
two during the past week, and some
are even bold enough to offer to sell
to the much abused assessors at
their valuation. According to the
stories told the assessors there isn't
enough furniture in Pullman each
spring to stock a good sized furni
ture store. Verily the people of the
Artesian town are in a bad way.
EMERT CLAIM WITHDRAWN
James Emert. who recently filed
with the city a claim for damages in
the amount of $2330 for injuries re
ceived in a fall through an open trap
door on the east side of the Flatiron
building, has withdrawn his claim
against the city, recompense for the
injuries having been given by
Squires and Gaddis, owners of J the
building.
PULLMAN. WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, MARCH 10. 1916
REDUCTION OF $8,000 IN CITY
DEBT DURING YEAR OF 110
Good Management Results in Marked Im
provement in Financial Condition of
City of Pullman
The total indebtedness of the City of Pullman on January 1, 1916, was
approximately $67,000, about $8000 less than the debt on January i. 10 15.
The heaviest item in this total of $67,000 is represented by water bonds,
aggregating $31,000. One issue of $11,000 was made in 1012, and the pro
ceeds used to take up warrants outstanding against the water system. An
other issue of $20,000 was made in 1014 to improve and extend the water
system. The next largest item is represented by old general fund warrants
issued in the early nineties and drawing eight tier cent interest. The
amount of these warrants still outstanding is $6626.97 and the interest on
them aggregates about one and three-fourths times the amount of the prin
cipal, or approximately $1 1,600. The other items included in the Indebted
ness are $6596.78 in water fund warrants and $12,874.80 in current ex
pense fund warrants. From the total of these Items should be deducted
i the sum of $2086.15, cash on hand in the several funds.
The following figures taken from the annual report of the city treasurer
show the condition of the two most important funds:
Water Fund
Balance January 1, 1915 $ 465.25
Received from rents during the year 10,210.16
Received for pipe ; 80.76
Received from special water fund i 29.87
Received on account of error last year 5.20
Received for meters and fittings 142.20
Received from meter fund 63.1 5
Paid warrants during the. year 10,387.94
Paid Interest 459.68
Balance January 1, 1918 $ 267.83
$ 267.83
Current Expense Fund
Balance January 1, 1915 .* $ 131.72
Received from taxes 10,603.52
Received from local improvement districts ". . 8,041.07
Received for repairing walks . 83.60
Received for license 374.00
Received for weighing 89.20
Received lor interest em deposits , 228.14
Received for miscellaneous items 120.74
Received front 0.-W. R. at N. Co. for removing point of hill. . . 300.00
Received for telephone franchise 200.00
Received for plumbing permits 127.50
Received for dog tax I 14.00
Received for fines 67.00
Received from filing fees 38.00
(Continued on last page)
Belter Fed Herds Best Producers
Completion of Year's Test in County
Cow Testing Association Shows
tirade Jersey Pest Producers
4
That the better fed herds pro
duced the greatest profit to the own
ers was one of the most valuable
points proved by the first year's
records of the Whitman County Cow
Testing association, which closed the
first of March. A total of 388 cows
in 12 herds were on test during the
12-month period, and 230 cows in
10 herds completed the entire year's
test, tabulations on which have been
completed by A. J. Lashbrook, in
charge of dairy extension work for
the State College, co-operating with
the United States department of ag
riculture. J. C. Graham of Palouse
has the distinction of owning the
best butter-fat producing cow of the
entire association, his grade Jersey,
.Mermaid, having a record of 565.6
pounds of butter-fat for the 12
months. To C. ii. Barclay of Pull
man goes the honor of having the
best milk producer in Jose, a grade
Holstein, which produced 14,043
pounds of milk during the year, over
38 pounds per day. The cow with
the highest percentage of butter-fat
Pounds Aye. Pounds
Name of Cow Breed Owner and Address Milk Test B-fat
Mermaid, G. Jersey, J. C. Graham of Palouse 11,408 5.0% 566.6
Lady, G. Jersey, L. N. Chase of Palouse 0,030 5.3 492.4
Jose. Q. Holstein, C. 11. Barclay of Pullman 14,043 8.6 480.
Mandy, G.Jersey, A. G. Woodward of Fairbanks. . 0,138 5.9 473.9
Topsy, Jersey, A. O. Woodward of Fairbanks. . 9,086 5.3 462.4
Pink, G. Jersey, A. G. Woodward of Fairbanks... 9,321 4.8 451.6
Rinda's Orinda, P. B. Jersey, H. H. Curtis of Pullman 7,240 6.8 440.6
Potlatch, G. Holstein, J. C. Graham of Palouse. ... 10,003 4.6 447.0
Natty Sunshine, G. Holstein, J. C. Graham, Palouse . 1 1,986 3.6 432.0
Beauty, G. Jersey, J. C. Graham of Palouse 9,920 4.8 423.8
Blue, G. Holstein. J. C, Graham of Palouse 11,641 3.8 422.7
Betty, G. Holstein, J. C. Graham of Palouse.. 12,231 3.5 419.3
Jenny, G. Holstein, C. 11. Barclay of Pullman 10,301 4.0 411.0
No. 10, P. B. Jersey. E. E. Flood of Rosalia. 7,848 5.3 407.9
Aggie Alta
Llscomb Poach, P. B. Holstein. I. C. Graham, i'alouse 1 2,178 3.3 407.C
Gretchen, G. Holstein, C. H. Barclay of Pullman... 11,292 3.6 407.6
Goldie, G. Jersey. A. G. Woodward. Fairbanks..... 7.407 5.0 403.7
Golden Queen, P. B. Holst'u, Chris Wurgler, Pullman 9,788 4.1 403.6
was Hindu's Orinda, a pure bred
Jersey of the 11. li. Curtis herd,
near Pullman.
The average milk production per
row was 6771 pounds and the but
ter-fat production was 200.1 pounds.
The average cost of feed per cow
was $60.46. Dairymen will do well
to note this figure. One herd had
an average feed cost of $34.33 per
cow and another as high as $82.34
per cow, but the records disclosed
the fact that the herds with the
higher cost of feed were not only the
heaviest producing herds, but also
the ones showing the greatest net
profit per cow. In other words, it
pays to feed grain to good cows.
One herd averaged 351.1 pounds
of butter-fat per cow for the year
and another 235.6 pounds. The
highest producing cow made 11,408
pounds of milk and 565.6 pounds of
butter-fat, making a good profit to
her owner; and the lowest cow pro
duced 120.8 pounds of butter-fat
and was kept at a lofs. That some
of the members profited by the test
was shown by the fact that 26 cows
were sold to the butcher as unprofit
able in the dairy, during the year.
Following are the highest records
made during the year:
PKOTF.STS AGAIN Aft
TEAMS IN sn:i:i is
It. Lannlng on Tuesday evening
entered a vigorous protest again.st
the alleged action of Councilman
i'"i anh Burnett In feeding hi i deliv
ery teams and customer's teams
from the wagons on the street- when
the' bam is full, stating that the
wagons obstructed traffic and that
an unsanitary condition is promoted.
a motion was offered by Councilman
Hammond, seconded by Councilman
Burnett himself, prohibiting feeding
or hitcihng teams on any paved
stteet, but the motion was with
drawn to permit investigation.
WHEAT PRICKS SI I, \l>\
Wheat prices have remained al
most stationary during the week,
yesterday's quotations being as fol
lows:
Red wheat 80c
Club wheat 82c
Fortyfold wheat 83c
oats, per cwt $1.00
Barley, per cwt $ 1.25
The farmers refuse to sell at these
prices and no ileitis of any conse
quence have been consummated dur
ing the week.
MARTIN WILL FEED
HUNDREDS TOMORROW
Big Auction Sale and Barbecue Will
Attract .Many From AH Parts of
County —Col. Hicks to Wield
Hammer
Hundreds of people, including
men, women and children, will be
guests of T. C. Martin, that Imple
ment man, at the biggest barbecue
ever held In Pullman tomorrow.
Beef, barbecued In huge chunks, will'
const it the main at I rail ion on the
bill of fare, while baked beans,
pickles, coffee and doughnuts will be
on hand in large quantities. The
main display room of the big Martin
establishment resembles the' center
of a big Fourth of July picnic as a
result of the preliminary prepara
tions made this week. A huge square
counter has been Installed, draped in
the national colors, and the feed will
be served cafeteria style, the hungry
sale patrons to pass around tin'
counter and be served with the vari
ous eatables as they go,
The sale proper will be held on
the paved street, Grand street, from
Main'to Olson, will he pressed into
service for the occasion. Under the
enticing hammer of Col. J. B. Hicks
over 40 pieces of Studebaker rolling
stock, including buggies, wagons,
hacks, phaetons, buckboards, carts,
etc., etc., will be sold, the total stock
to go under the hammer represent
ing a value exceeding $4000. Mr.
Martin states that everything placed
on sale will go, regardless of the
price bid. All sums under $25 must
be paid in cash, according to the
terras announced, but on sums over
that amount bankable paper will be
accepted, due October 1, 1916, at 10
per cent interest.
PARK COMMISSION NAMED
Mayor Harley Jackson has ap
pointed a park commission of six
members, which will have general
supervision of the city parks, all ex
penditures of money for improve
ments or care to be subject to the
approval of the council. John
Squires and Mrs. William Swain
were appointed to serve three years
each, while Mrs. Ira I). Cardiff and
William Goodyear are two-year
members. Mrs. E. Maguire and V.
V. Westgate were appointed to serve
one year. The park fund contained
nearly $600 when this money was
transferred by resolution, to the
current expense fund, but 'hat
amount, under the terms of the reso
lution, is still available for park pur
poses.
HAT-iBY BUYS FARM
Bert Hatley has closed a deal
whereby he becomes the owner of
the Ed R. Young farm of 160 acres
10 miles southwest of Pullman. Mr.
Young, who has recently returned
from a trip to Canada, will farm the
M. L. Baxter place, ,
NUMBER 21
COUNCIL TAKES STEP
TO WAIVE PHONE TAX
.1. X. Sett Only Dissenting Council
man on Motion to Prepaid Amend
ment Cancelling Franchise
Tax
The Initial step toward granting
the- Pacific State's Telephone & Tele
graph company free franchise priv
ileges during the remainder of the
life of its present franchise was
taken by the city council Tuesday
evening, when, with only Councilman
J. N. Scott dissenting, the city fath
ers adopted the following motion,
offered by Councilman Kruegel and
seconded by Councilman Burnett
"That the city attorney be In
structed to prepare an amendment to
the Pacific States Telephone & Tele
graph ordinance cancelling the fran
chise tax after the year 1016, and
providing that should the said com
pany or any other company In which
the Pacific States Telephone' & Tele
graph company holds stock again
enter due local field that the tax be
again in lull force and effect;
further that the said company, be*
tore beginning operations again,
agrees to pay all franchise tax ar
rearages beginning with the year
10 17."
Councilmen Swain, Burnett, Ham
mond, Kruegel and Duthle voted In
favor of the motion, Councilman
Scott voicing his disapproval, and
Councilman Nye being absent.
This action by the council was the
outgrowth of the informal meeting
held last week, when, after a con
ference with telephone officials, the
city lathers agreed to take steps to
waive the franchise tax which would
accrue during the remaining six
years of the Hell franchise. In ease
the- amendment Is adopted by the
council and made a part of the fran
chin', the Bell company will con
tinue its long distance service with
out tax and the Inland Co-operative
company, now alone in the local ex
change field by reason of its pur
chase of the Hell local lines and busi
iii" lust summer, will continue to
operate under its free franchise,
which has 11 years yet to run.
The Bell company objected strenu
ously to paying the tax for doing a
long distance business only, and the'
Inland company in turn refused to
accept and operate under the Hell
franchise when its own privilege-,
granted when the company catered
only to farmer trade, carries no tax
whatever. Believing that the Bell
company might withdraw from the
field entirely rather than pay $300
per year for long distance service
only and that the Inland company
acts only within its rights in refus
ing to accept the Bell franchise,
carrying the tax provision, the coun
cil has evidently decided to make the
best of a bad muddle and give both
companies free rights, sacrificing
$1700 of perfectly good money to
the city exchequer.
PAVING CAMPAIGN OPENED
That the city council plans to con
tinue its paving campaign during the
year 1016 is indicated by its action
on Tuesday evening, when the city
fathers adopted a preliminary reso
lution declaring its intention to pave
the road leading east from town,
commencing at the new concrete
bridge and continuing to the city
limits at the east line of College
Park addition. A hearing on the
resolution is set for April I. at
8:00 p. m.
BECK SELLS INTEREST
a deal was closed Wednesday
evening by which George Stephen
son becomes sole proprietor of the
Theatorltun. having bought out the
; interest of his partner. H. M Beck.
Mr. Beck will continue to manage
the amusement house for the pres
ent, but later expects to devote his
entire attention to his bakery busi
ness.
MAYOR IS POUCH JUDGE
Mayor Harley Jackson will, for
ii,, remainder of the year, serve in
the dual capacity of city head and
police Judge, the latter position hav
ing been wished upon him by the
council Tuesday evening.
