iciriTrTnr!inifiiiiii!iiiiimtTiniriiiirif!Kni
'1
fnfBEBEiaXEQEC
INA D
OCRAT
CELINA
1 ONE paper
THE RESERVOIR CITY THE
BIQQEST LITTLE TOWN ON
EARTH THE HUB OF THE UNI
VERSE, In the HOME It worth a don In
the byway, and Just nmimbir THE
DEMOCRAT la tha noma papar of
Mercer County. a a a
Iit.bli.h.d Miil.llll
EnlaraS l thCllna, ' 'do. pott-cfflu m Moond-cIsM all nttt.
Volume 20, Number 48
Carlin & Carlin, Publithert
Celina, Ohio, March 10, 1916
THE CEJ
EM
LIVE
Business Organization Quietly
and Unostentiously
LAUNCHED BY HALF A HUNDRED
HUSTLERS GOOD ROADS CIVIC
AND COMMERCIAL BOOSTERS
The Celina Business Association, an or
gunlzullon of more tliun hulf a hundred
l" '""" prominent uusineas men oi
this city, la new corporation, which for
the past month him been working quietly
on several good roads movements and fac
tory propositions for this city.
The organization wus first formed early
In January for thu purpose of pushing the
good roads movement In and adjacent to
this city. The Instigators worked quiet'
ly, but effectively and the membership
Brew, until on February 4, last It wua
merged Into a capitalized corporation.
chartered under tho laws of the state of
Ohio.
The flrut set of olllcers chosen to loo
after tho association's welfare are:
J. W. Desch. president.
J. Jl. Wilikeljolian, llrst vice president
A. M. Klley, second vice president.
Mark Hcckman. secretary.
O. Rentzsch, treasurer.
The association was formed for the pur
pose of promoting and advancing In ev
ery way the social, civic and commercial
Interests of Celina and Mercer County,
Ohio, and to secure the active co-opera
tion of all classes of citizens of Celina
and Mercer County, Ohio In the accom
plishment of said purpose.
HARDWARE AND IMPLEMENT
DEALERS HAVE MEETING
Kvery hardware and Implement con-
cern In the county were represented at a
meeting of County hardware and Imple-
ment dealers held at the city hall X
terduy afternoon with members of the
Auglaize County Hardware and Imple-
ment Dealer's Club. The meeting was ad-
.i ..j .., t..,,, -.-,, u rthinl""" -""ia. vwipuKonein, ni. niarys, ,ew
"'""" "
mute naruwure Association, uy aevciaiiuve teams
members of the Auglaize club and by sev-
erl representatives of,lmplumcnt manu
facturers
Mr. Zura Riley, of the Riley & Nickel
Hardware Compuny, of this city, one of
the local live wires said last evening that
the purpose of such a club as was or
ganized In Auglaize county, and which he
hoped to see orgnized In this county In
the very near future was not a price
raising movement, or a plan to hold up
buyers of hardware and farmer's Imple
ments, but an organization to promote the
Interest of and to secure the freindly co
operation of retail hardware and Imple
ments. The orgnlzatlon meetings would
permit of closer relation
of dealers, val-
uable addresses from hardwre nd Imple-
. t .... i i. .....i. .,.,,;
idi.us between the dealers. The guther-
Ings. Mr. Riley said, would be some thing
on the order of farmer's Institutes and I
should be of aa much value to .dealers in I
the county and the community In general.
Ameeting will likely 0 neia in tins
city in the near future looking towards
the forming of a club In this county.
The establishment of a Joint county or
ganization will be considered.
FORMER FT. RECOVERY
BOY HONORED BY OEMS
Jacob F. Denney ,of Portland, Demo
a cratic candidate for congress from the
8th Indiana district, was nominated on
last Tuesday by a vote of 3000 majority
over his opponent, Frank P. Foster.
Congressman J. A. M. Adair, of Port
land, easily won the democratic nomina
tion for governor. At nine o'clock Thurs
day morning the official vote had not
been learned, owing to late returns, but
Adair seemed to be a favorite through
out the state. ' i
' As we go to press Thursday forenoon
the Jay county vote has not been olllclal-
ly announced hut will oe ns ronows: j.
A. M. Adair, 1817; Leonard It. (More,
1668; Frank P. Foster, 28Y Ft. ReCovery
Tribune-Journal.
PERSONAL
. Mrs. C. P. Myersf of Sedttl'a, jvas the
guests this week of her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. J. J. Leifeld, coming particularly to
attend the wedding or ner iormer ncum,
Miss Lenora Hattery.
Misses Elvira and Dorothea Studer were
last Sunday guests of their uncle, John
Lechlelter and family at Lima.
Mrs. J. V. Desch went to Tiffin yes
terday to spend the week end with her
daughter, Miss Ruth, who is a pupil at
the ursuline college in mat city.
Miss N'ta Townsend, of Sturges. Mich.
I sthe guest of Miss Margaret Dysert, S.
Walnut street.
Mrs. Lewis Anchutz, of Cleveland, und
Mrs. Frederick Frahm, of Toledo, visited
this week with Mrs. P. F. Callen, East
Market street.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Hanselman. of
Por.Uind' 9n "fl18 ,t".t,he..for-
Llmn. East Livingston street.
"
Mesdames Chas. Frank and Ed White-
man, Ft. Wayne, Ind., visited the first of
the week with Mis. John Pumphrey.
Mr. and Mrs. Earl Well, of -ituncle, Ind
were guests this week of Mr. and Mn
Wesley Fennlg, East Livingston street.
j. v. smitn, oi tne nnn ui o.. ...... a
tho" Chattanooga tin and pump dealers,
una umr.r.0- tnir hliMinesH CaHei'S. SatUr- I
day.
. ,. . ... . ,
Henry Bomholt, o Chickasaw, made
4V.U nriA ,, i.ir ll n,l.il. 1 tnwn on r,
Wednesday looking after some business a
matters.
Henry Bock, who has been dredging at
of water, In that territory, dropped into
Th. Iien.ocrat oIIIcb Saturday, long
enough to pay a year's subscription for
a n mn .t i ..ur. i,i
"' ...,
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Carroll, who have
heen residents of Oils city for several
years past, left last Saturday for Marion,
Ind., where Mr. Carroll will take up farm
ing. During their residence here Mr. Car
roll was connected with the I. E. Cramp
ton Canning & Packing Co.
AUTOMOBILE BARGAIN
o,.lek action will mean a bargain for
unmnmia who haDDens to. be in the mar- i
ket for an exceptional good car. This
machlne is a Cadillac, purchased 2 years
ago, and has been run very little in that
time. K Is in fine running order and In
good condition throughout. This car cost
$2,700 new and party will sacrifice for
$900. II you mean business see jonn c.
Carlin at tbi ornc.
CLAIMS EGO RECORD
Mrs. Philip Gardner, of Osgood noticed
tho big egg production of Mrs. Miller's
bans In thi'HH columns an copied from the
Ft. Recovery Ti Ibune recently, mid thinks
she has the right to the rllihon now. She
says: "I think I i-iin bent tht. us from
Jiinury 12 to February 12 I got JJ47 egg
irom n nens. i tinm I Iiiivm quite tun
third as riuinv hens mm Urn Miller hud.
44. If J would have hud uh many htm us
hIu- did 1 should gotten eggs to her
or., in witt same proportion.
Wo are always glud to receve reports
or thiH kind mid tuke pleasure In publish
ing them for tho pcrauul of our reader.
vvno next Versailles Policy.
JUSTICE STUBBS IN NEW QUARTERS
Jum! Ire of thu Pence C. A. Stuhhs had
lilted up neat law offices In thu Union
lllock, rooniH 12 and 111, ut the head of the
Minim, second, floor, Carroll Iiiim been
with Senator Johnson for the pu.st year
,,, )UHlm,ss romieet.
Willi the Justice
",l)u "ude him feel that private quur
ters were necessary.
OLD-TIMERS
And a Sprinkling of Young
sters Will Make Up Team
TO REPRESENT CELINA THIS SEA
SON ON BALL DIAMOND READY
TO ARRANGE GAMES
t a meeting of the base ball enthus
iasts held last Monday evening an organ
ization was affected by local players to be
known as the Celina fiuse Hull Club, with
Heal Estate Agent V. O. Borman, an old
time twlrler and Htill active exponent of
the national sport, being selected to look
after tho preliminary financial and book
ing end of the game, while Kx-deputy
.Sheriff George Betz, the hard-hitting first
sucker, was chosen as field captain.
All the old-time players have been lined
up. Including lorniun, Betz, Charles Kills,
George, Charles and Joe Myers, Kahl Mc
Comb, Joe Fredericks Rich Karch and
Chick Horger. .Severul youngsters are al
I so on the slab and others wishing to try
I out are requested to get In touch with
Captain Hetz.
I The boys have leased from Mr. Hrandls
SnWiffit K th"
diamond in tip-top shape with the open-
l iiik up ui spring.
Manager Horman Is anxious to secure
early bookings and hopes to get in touch
Hremen. Versailles and all other prospec
FARMERS
MAKE DISCOVERY THAT SOME CORN
GROWN LAST YEAR DOES
NOT GERMINATE
Many farmers of northwestern Ohio and
other parts of statu where corn is rais
ed, report that a very large percentage of
the corn laid up for seed will not germl-
t
The Commerce Club's Agricul-
u.buiuiiiuii
is starting a campaign to induce every
ru i v,.iv,i, u.,tt.,.n nhin i i,iu
. ,. ... , ','
.."..o. o-.iui.if,
sample seea lesier o every canker una
elevator ownor. Large posters warning
of the condition of seed corn and advis
ing the farmers to call on the bankers
and elevator men, see testers and learn
where they can he had for a few cents
each, will he posted in every village, town
and neighborhood settlements. The
bankers will be glad to order the testers
and give them to tho farmers.
MANAGERS OF THE LONG
COMPANIES MEET HERE
The managers of the J. A. Long Pack
ing Huuses met with manager J. B. Head-
lngtoit in this city last Friday and after
a soclul meeting at the olllces of the Long
packing house enjoyed a sumptuous ban
quet. Those present were: I'resident J.
A. Long and Charles Ashcraft, of Port
land. Ind., Charles Snyder of Red Key,
Ind.; J. M. Stewart, of Ridgeville, Ind.;
Nathan Rickner, of Winchester, Ind.; T.
A. Herryhill, of Lynn, Ind.; Julius Erb,
of Parker, Ind.; G. M. Wall and George
Sonick. of Union City, ind.; u. vv. Asii-
craft, of Hellefountaine; W. H. Hawkins
of New Bremen; Lafe Cottemeyer, of St.
Marys; Louis Smith, of Coldwater, and
George Curtis, of Ft. Recovery.
TOWNTOPICS
Nearly forty couples enjoyed a calico
and overalls dance at Mercelina last
Monday evening.
H. L. Leininger. of Liberty township.
was among our business callers, Tuesduy,
having bills printed for a sale, which he
will hold on Tuesday, March n.
The ladios aid society of the M. E.
church will be entertuine dat the church
parlors this atternoon by Mesdames W.
w. Lance, rank winans anu a. ai. ros
ter.
Dr. W. C. Boring accompanied Wil
liam Ungerer to Dayton last Tuesday
momlnir. where the latter underwent an
operation at the St. Elizabeth hospital. He
Is in a critical condition.
The Are department was called to the
Richard May home, on C on street, In the
Citizens addition, last saturaay aternoon,
when a burning flue set the roof of the
house on fire. The flames were extin-
gulshed before the department arrived.
W. IT. Roettger was called to New Bre
men Tuesdav to see his mother, rs. Wil
liam F. Roettger. 80 years of age, who
oU.i...,a .1 r..ll 1.... , ....! -r o-..tn Inln u-
broken hlo. Because of her advneed
age the mishap is a very serious one
r
Gatus N. Betz, of Wabash, who has
been enjoying phenomenal success In the
manufacture and sale of his famous Jones
. j ' " 4 '
business call Monday leaving another
?.r,d-L??rPrLntln.,to l,e "lied P. D. Q.
' success, we believe, is well deserved.
& ; f ,Vuri"5rst the county Jail last
Sunday listened to a short prayer and
so" ?euVJci" ?2-a ,mrm?n hY "'IX- sha"
fer, of the Presbyterian church. The ser-
vices were arranged for with Sheriff
Pumphrey by the Missionary committee
o f the Christian Endeavor Kocletv.
members of which attended the services
and distributed missionary literature to
tne prisoners.
The twostory brick house on north
Main street occupied for so many years
iiv ine late auuiuji- i. v. iou veue ana i
f.:n I- Lalnu- nrn a-aruv In .
ti. Z .ni h.i w. i. i.Z
man Is Dimming to make one of the show
aces of this handsome resldencei section,
The old dwelling house was built by Jas.
Watson Riley, father of James Kiley, the
founder of Celina, and it was occupied by
him as a dwelling house for a number of
years. It Is one mong the last of the
old landmarks to be moved away to make
wy ror modern Duuaing improvements. l
teainowa.
AL ,
Accident Befalls Well Known
Washington Tp. Farmer
SJPPOSED TO HAVE FA.LEN FROM
ATTIC, DISCHARGING SHOT-GUN
STANDING NEAR STEPS
Jacob Loshe, aged 48 years, residing In
Washington township, Just east of Mace
don, was accidentally killed by the dls
charge of it shot gun about eight o'clock
la "l Tuesday morning.
.Mr. Leslie, his wife and the latter'
brother, Alliert Horns, of ncua St. Peter,
were working In the barn, when the for
mer left to go Into the house for a screen
to clean some oats.
It is presumed he went Into the attic
after tliu screen and was descending the
ttuir when he fell, in some manner dls
charging thu gun, which wus kept stand
Ing on the stairway.
.Mrs. Ixishe and Mr. Horns heard the
shot nnd ran to the house, where they
found Mr. l,oshe at the foot of the
stairs, with u gapping gunshot wound In
the left side of his breast Just below the
heart. The gun luy on the floor a few
feet from the body, as did the screen,
which he went to the house to obtain. A
physician was hurriedly summoned but to
no avail, the injured man passing away an
hour later, without regaining conscious
ness.
Justice of the Peace James Jeffries was
called us acting coroner and pronounced
death due to accidental shooting.
Mr. Loshe is survived by his wife and
a number of relatives. Misses Carrie and
Josephine Horns, sisters-in-law, employed
us domestics In this city, where upprlsed
of the death and went to their home near
ftlf. -tedy to .tleni Ih. fn
al services which were held at St. Peter's
Catholic Church at nine o'clock yesterday
morning.
TO THE WORKS
AT DAYTON CO A COUPLE OF LOCAL
CHARACTERS FOR SMALL
THEFTS ABOUT TOWN
William Schulte and Wm. "Ginger"
Sellers, well known characters about town
were arrested by Oflicers Duncan and
Heistun last Saturday on a charge- of
stealing a lawn mower, garden rake, hoe
trunk und other articles from a garage
on the Wlnkeljohan place. West Fayette
street, formerly occupied by William
I'rlmivlsu, and to whom the stolen goods
helrine-ed
mh . lvou i.u,.,, int.. the
-t ,"' ' j.n
gouus siuien iuai rim nigm. umra
Heistan discovered that part of the things
had been disposed of at the T. J. Hlake
second hand store by'Schulie and Sellers
and they were arrested.
They plead guilty ana were eacn nnea
$25 and costs and sentenced to 'JO days
In the Dayton work-house. They were
taken to Dayton last Wednesday.
Hefore being taken away Schulte was
permitted to visit his father. Henry
Schulte. an Inmate at the Inlirmary, who
died yesterday morning. Sellers has been
in this city for several months. His par
ents are well-to-do people of Lebanon.
DAN CUPID VICTIMS
One of the prettiest of the season's nup
tial events occurred at the beautiful res-
ldunce of Dr and Mrs j E Hattery,
on Fast Market street last Saturday mor
ning when the youngest dughter of the
household, Miss Lenore Bernice, was unit
ed in marriage to Mr. Clarence L. Allis
of W'ooster, Rev. Lance of the M. E.
church olllciatlng, with the ring cere
mony. The attendants were John West,
of Wooster, and the bride's sister, Miss
Florence Hattery.
The groom is an electrical engineer,
son of Mrs. Dora Allls, of Wooster. He
Is a young man of wealth and social
prominence, being sole owner of the
Wooster electric light pint
The bride Is the youngest daughter of
Dr. and Hrs. Hattery. fche Is one of Ce
lina's most accomplished girls, and has a
pleasing personality. She Is a graduate
of the Celina schools and after finishing a
university course at Wooster, taught In
the public schools of this city,
lmmedltely after the ceremony a sump
tuous wedding dinner was served to rela
tives and out of town triends and mem
bers of the Tri Psl Club, of which the
bride was a member.
Mr. and Mrs. Allis left Saturday after
noon for a several weeks trip through the
east, visiting New York and ninny other
points of Interest. The out of town
guests at the wedding were: Mrs. Dora
Allls and Miss i'Jmlly Hard, or wooster,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Jackson, Pa.; Dr.
and Mrs. John R. Hattery. of Columbus
Mrs. j. t: Nelson ana aaugnter, miss
Lois, of Vaughnsvllle; Mrs. Ella Mont
gomery and Mrs. Rosa Palmer, of Van
Wert and Mrs. c y. Meyers, or seuana.
Paul J. Lewis and Miss Ina M. Houts,
well known young people of Center town
ship, were united In marriage at the home
of the bride's parents, last Saturday noon,
Rev. Daniel Eckert officiating. The at
tendants were Mr. and Mrs. Vern Chap
man. '
Immediately after the ceremony a sum-
ptuous wedding was served to a large
LmW n, ,,,, frion,t Tho
the br-)(ie ft a daughter 'of Mr. and1
iMth. Alhert Houts. The young couple
will reside on the Lewis farm
MARRIAGE LICENSES ISSUED
Paul J. Lewis. 26. armer. Center town-
hip, son of Joseph Lewis, and Ina M.
Houts. 18. housekeeper. Center township.
daughter of Albert Houts. Rev. Eck
ert. Will Hesser. 36, laborer, Rookford. son
of Lewis Hesser, and Hester Boroff, 25,
housekeeper, CeJIna, daughter of John
Boroff. Rev. Reitz,
,-. .n oi 1 wr .,..
V . arei.ee 1,. Jlllis, ., c.is....-., i.uupici,
Rn of John M. Allls. and Lenore Hattery,
:''' . . t ' ' '
tery. Rev. Lance.
Henrv Goslee. 30 trainman. Waoako-
.,' !. , u ee r?.,a 5
D,eltch. 27, .bookkeeper, Celina, daughter
or 1 . w. Deltsch. Rev. Reltz.
county son of Charles Alger, and Mabel
Kampf, 21, housekeeper, daughter of
vvuis Kampr. Rev. uauders.
FAT
RAISE FLOWERS
If you want to Increase the value
your property make It look better. lr
it up. Read "The llmne IteiiotHiil" ml
(If III thin Issue of The Dcmucrul.
SCORED HIT AT THE FORT
"Mis. Temple's Telegram" a comedy
farce 111 three m is, was presented at tl
opera house, Tliuisdnv nilit by the I'l
liella Kaoiia f raternity, of Celina. T!
play scored a big hit and many compll
nieuls were heard Irom those Who w
ere
present. Ft. Recovery Tribune-Journal
GHOST SOCIAL AT ERASTUS
The men of the Trinity M. K. church at
Krustus are planning to give a ghost so
rial Friday evening, March 17, In the
town hall. The price of admission will
be ten cents.
A supper will be served Nnd a good so
cinl t n Is anticipated. A cordial in
vltatlon Is exlundcd to all to utlend.
DATE NAMED
FOR ORGANIZATION OF BOYS
GIRLS JUNIOR COUNTY
CONTEST CLUB
AND
On the 2:nd day of April, llllfi. at 1
o'clock a.m., the boys and girls who
have entered the corn contests and do
mestlc science contests ill each county
will assemble ut the county sent In u room
provided by the County Commissioner
to organize a county Hoys and (Jills Jun
lor contest club under the uusplces of the
Hureau of Junior Contests of the State
Hoard of Agriculture.
In addition to the boys and girls who
have entered these contests for the yea
UHC.-all persons who have pledged them
slves to one or more trips to Washing
ton in the autumn of l'J16, and the pre-
presiding olllcers of all . organizations
who have pledged funds for one or more
trips to Washington shall be eligible to
membership in this county club. The of
llccrs of this county association shall be
president, secretary, treasurer, and
three members of the executive commit
tee.
No one shall be eligible to be elected
president, secietury or treasurer of this
organization but boys or girls who have
entered the 1U16 contests. When a boy
or girl withdraws from the contests or
ceases to do work therein, then such boy
or girl is dropped automatically from
this County Club,
Persons who have offered trips, or pre
siding olllcers of organizations who have
pledged trips, may be elected members
of the executive committee.
Any county agent or superintendent of
schools who solicits und procures one or
more trips to Washington, in the 1916
contests, shall be eligible to membership
in this organization and shall be eligible
to election us member of the executive
ommittee,
The president, secretary, treasurer anu
three members of the executive column
tee shall constitute the board of direc
tors of this county club and shall act
for it in the absence of any directors of
ine association proper.
Tile object for which this asosciation
shull exist is as follows:
To study all civic, economic and social
questions relating to the farm and the
in rni Home, particularly to the Corn and
Domestic ocience subjects.
lo promulgate and promote all con
tests and trips that will be conducted un-
er tne direction oi the liureuu oi Junior
ontests ot the State Department o- Ag-
lculture of Ohio
To create and promote local contests
among boys and girls.
to solicit trie tunas lor local and county-wide
trips.
To encourage and to take Dart in all
locul und county corn and domestic scien
ce shows and County und Slate fairs of
1U1I).
lo disseminate the different literature
issued by the state and national depart
ments upon all subjects relating to the
farm lite.
To conduct local contests and exhib-
ts In Class L of the school exhibits at
the State Fair in 1916.
lo receive and distribute rules, entry
blanks and all literatur econcerning the
xhibits contests and different trips that
e sent out by the Bureau ot Junior con
tests.
Last but not least, this organization
shall elect from among the contestants
two boys, no two of whom shall be from
the same township, excepting only when
one township in any county shall have
contestants therein, who shull be brought
to the State Fair of lulu for a whole
week at the expense of the Board of Agri
culture of the State of Ohio.
The election of the two boys to attend
the State Fair for one whole week at the
expense of the site board of Agriculture
will occurr at 10 o'clock a. m. on the
10th day of July, 1916.
The Bureau of Junior Contests of the
Stute Hoard of Agriculture of the State
of Ohio will award cash prizes for the
first best, second best, third bes, fourth
best and fifth best essays on -ne subject
"The Uses of Corn." These essays will
be determined upon by the Board of Di
rectors of this county club organization
which may appoint a committee of three
or live to select the best essay offered in
tlv
county. men trie oest essay in each
county shall be forwarded to the Bureau
of Junior Contests, Columbus, Ohio, cure
of the Stute Board of Agriculture, and
from the best eighty-eiglit essays in the
state the best five will be selected by the
committee uppointed by the Bureuu of
Junior Contests The essuy in each coun
ty to be presented to the county organi
zation on the third Sunday of July, 1916.
Local contests may be conducted by the
schools, granges, or any organization to
determine which Is the best to send up
from each township, village, or other di
vision to the County Contest.
At the July meeting of the organization.
tho County Club will announce a commit
tee of five appointed to select the best
essay from all those present from the
different parts of the county This com
mittee will report to the county organi
zation at its meeting on the third Satur
day of August and the secretary of the
county organization will then forward
the best essay from each county to the
Bureau of Junior Contests.
Address all communications to J.
Clarke, Director of Junior Contests, Co
lumbus, Ohio.
COURT MATTERS
The Jury hearing the case of David Hll-
yard et al vs. L. E. Sternberg returned
a verdict at 2:15 last Friday afternoon of
no cause of action," after deliberating
and hour and forty-five minutes.
Sternberg was the contractor on the
Beaver ditch along which stream Hilyard
owned a farm. Hilyarct sued for damages
in the sum of (1,000, claiming defendants
dredge darned up the stream and caused
the water to over-llow plalntltrs land.
Sternberg filed a cross petition asking
damages for $1,100.
Judge Miller last Monday confirmed the
report of ths commissioners in the par
tition action of Charles I. older vs.
Raymon O. Golder. No one electing to
the property at the appraisement sale
was ordered and has been fixed for April
18. The property in question is a house
and lot in th enorth end pf Ft. Recov
ery.
QUARTERLY CONFERENCE
The third quarterly- conference of the
Coldwater Circuit M. E. churches will be
held Sunday and Monday, March 26 and
27. Sunday 2fith, at 2 p.m., Rev. M. M.
Flgley. the district superintendent will
preach. Monday 27th. at 10:45 a.m. a bus-
lawns session will b hald.
llfflS
Claim They Were Misrepre
sented in Public Prints
AS TO PART THEY PLAYED IN SEN-
SATIONAL SHOOTING AFFRAY
AT ROCKFORD LAST WEEK
The old adage of there being two sides
to every question seems to be upheld
again in connection with the shooting
scrape In Rot kford, a week ago lust Wed
uesday, resulting In the arrest of ona.
Charles Mullow, a charge of shooting with
Intent to kill being llled against him by
A. J. Hawk.
Mr. Hawk, Jr., made The Democrat a
call on Saturday, very hot under the col
lar regarding the story given to this pa
per lust wetjt.
Ills side of the uffulr runs us follows
The Hawks and Mallow sometime ugo
had some land transactions and uftt-r all
deals had been closed. It seems Mallow
was not satisfied with the trade. After
thinking over the matter for some time
he decided to obtain the papers binding
the bargain. Under this impulse he went
to a business man In Rockford, intrusted
with the notes in the case, und asked to
see thorn. Upon being shown tho notes
he grabbed them and started to the oll.ee
of A. J. Hawk, to obtain the signed con
tracts In the same munner. Mr. Hawk,
however, not handing over the contracts,
for inspection, as requested. Mallow drew
revolver and fired several shots at
lluwks son-in-law, Wm. Berry, who not
lirVJ.lK 11. 0 WUa U. UCI.lg SI1UI HI, UUUflCCU
unon Mn low iin.I thrower! h m tn tho
lloor. Holding him there until the gun wus
..live.. 1IU.11 111....
Mr. Hawk claims Mallow purchased the
revolver that same day and he feels that
he case was a premeditated murder on
the part of Mallow.
In lust week's Issue you have Mallow
version of the affair. Here ou have
what Hawk and Son have to say. Draw
our own conclusions.
FALLOW PLEAS NOT GUILTY
TO FOUR SEPARATE CHARGES
Churles Mallow, arrested in conectlon
with th shooting uffray In the office of
A. J. Hawk at Rockford last Thursday,
appeared before Justice of the Peace C.
Stubbs, of till sclty, yesterday and
plead not guilty to four separate affa-
avits filed aglnst him.
Bond was fixed
at $1000 and was given
Malow is charged In one affidavit by
ufus Hawk of carrying concealed weap
ons, and another with threatening to kill.
The other affadavits are with threaten
lg to kill, one being filed by C. E. Hawk
nd the other by W. A. Beiry.
HE GRIM REAPER
Word was received here Wednesday ev-
ning announcing the sudden death of
rank Millikan, a former resident of this
ity and a brother in law of George nd
illinm Knhlhnrur at Detroit Mich nt
llliam KOIUhorst, at Detroit Mien., at
five o'clock Wednesday atternoon. Mr.
Millikan whs an onertor at the L. E. &
V rllwHv Bttion in this citv for severl telling war stories nnd slnfrimr national
v. rnway sttion in mis city ror seven H Uttte Carl nnd Pauline Smith ren
years and served for a year as assessor dered some of their favorite duets on the
the third wrd. piano. At 4 o'colck Mrs. Louise smitn
A vear or so aim he, moved to Detroit regaled the party with a tempting lunch
A year or so abo no movea to utirou , th .,,,, ,,.ish tn thank her
here he secured employment in the Cad-
Mac automobile factory and where he
orkert until enrlv in th -, winter when nn
orK(;d until early tn tr-.a winter wnen an
acciueiit iiecessiLuicu me miiiiuutuuu v.
s right hand
He and his wife visited
here for several , weeks after the acci
dent. He contracted pneumonia a week
ago and this is supposed to have caused
his death.
Mrs. Millikan, who alone survives him,
wired relatives here yesterday that she
would bring the body of her husband to
tills city, arriving sometime this morning.
The remains will be taken to her brother
George's at the Logn street house. Fun
eral services will likely be held Sunday.
MRS. JESSE FAST, AGED 58
Mrs. Jesse Fast, aged 58 years, died
at ten o'clock last Monday morning at
her home on East Fulton street, follow
ing an Illness of only a few days' dura
tion.
Deceased was born October 31, 1857 and
died March 6th, aged 58 years, two month"
and five days. She leaves to mourn their
loss, her husband,, three sons, William,
Francis, Harvey, one daughter Goldie, 9
grandchildren, one brother, John Webb,
a half brother, William and a host of
friends.
Funeral services were held at the M.
E. church Wednesday morning, with Cir
cuit M. E. pastor A. H. Roebuck In
charge.
DAVID E. CROUCH, AGED 75
David E. Crouch, aged 75 years, a Civil
War veteran, died last Friday at his home
in Lake View addition, in the east end
of town following a lingering illness.
Deceased was a native of New York
state, but came, with his parents, to this sman, Mary and Bobble Sacher, Florence
county, when a small boy, where he re- Mabel Katheryn Richard nd Thelm Cyir
.t u ..ih. r k.. nr. rr. Llllie nnd T.eta Duncan, . ivlnn Wolfe,
the years' spnt In fighVlng durlnV the
,:IV'i arP "t6 '"h?L0t1
G. A. R. Post. Surviving are his wife,
one son, Frank, at home; two sisters,
Mrs. Robert Mosier, of St. Marys and Mrs.
Willis Pifer, East Market street; and one
sister, Mrs. Mary Goggln, West Livings
ton street. Funeral services were held at
Swamp College last Monday.
LEONARD BYERS. AGED 76
Leonard Byers, aged 76 years, died last
Saturday night at his home in Liberty
township, following an illness of pneu
monia. The remains were taken to Knox,
Ind., where funeral services were held
lust Tuesday afternoon.
JOSEPH MAURER, AGED 87
Joseph Maurer, aged 87 years, who for
several years past has been living with
his daughter, Mrs. Albert Metzner, north-
west of this city, died at the Metzner
home about one o'clock yesterday after- I
(Continued on Eighth Pag)
PENNY 60CIAL
A Penny Knclal will b given ut the
McMiirray home, t east or ( eiuiu, nut
Tuesdav. March 14. bv the Royal Clans,
fur the bene it of the West Oldlown um
ted Brethren Church. Everyone Is invit
ed to attend.
KING OF SPAIN BUYS AN OVERLAND
In u recent shipment from the Willys
Overland Company's Toledo plant, par'
tlcular Interest uttuched Itself to a stout
packing box marked as follows:
Per S. S. Antonio Ixipex
Compunia
Comuarila Transatlantic
S.
M. El Rey Don Alfonso XIII.
Pulucto Reui, Madrid.
This case contained a Model 84 Wil
lys-Knight stock touring car, such as
can te seen on locul streets any day in
the yeur, yet this particular car Is sin
gled out to be the first American made
Knight Motored automobile actually
purchased for personal use by an Eu
ropean crowned head and the honor
falls to the Willys-Overland company.
The motor used on this cur Is of the
Knight type,
a sleeve valve motor that
is exceedingly popular ubroad and used
In practically nil of the fine cars of
Kuropcun manulucture.
Curs of this sort sell for several
thousand dollars In Europe and with clos-
d bodies as high as $8000.
HEEL AND TOEING
IT
ACROSS CONTINENT WALKING
BACKWARD, TO WIN GOOD
SIZED WAGER
John M. Hale of Center township, while
in town last Saturday attending a meet
'ng of the Deputy State Supervisors of
Elections, of which he Is chief, gave us
a pleasant cull and told of his Interview
at Neptune on last Friday with Patrick
Harmon, and his traveling companion, the
former of whom Is walking backwards
from San Francisco to New York City.
From Neptune Harmon pursude his way
to St. Marys. He walks ty means of a
lonkint' class fastened in front of him
I which enables him to see the path lw-
lt.l .... l..t, L'.nl..,.n A.
r Illir. t, ,.,,,.i tl.u tv.lltu ,,f 1 1 111 rti
I v. nil a scneuuie in i; nines i-r uuv in.
trip is to be completed in 260 days. liar
mon says the easiest part of his Journey
I 1 'tn (lit, lileht.t mnnnl i. I.itf
having been passed with the Rockies.
SOCIAL GOSSIP
Friday was the twentieth birthday anni
versary of Albert Volz and in honor of
the event twenty friends gathered at the
Volz home giving him a complete sur
prise. Progressive games were played In
the first part of the evening. Miss Agatha
Sanner winning the first prize and Victor
Velten the booby. Following this was a
delicious lunch, games and music. The
guests were Misses Clara. Ella and Marie
Schlndk-r, Elsie and Cora Whitesell,
Frances, Mary and Agatha Sanner, Clara
Scheld, Eva Schneider, Marie Gleason,
Alvlra Velten. Nevo May, Joyce Hedrlck,
Edith Kleinhenz, Ethel Johnson, Leona
Anthony and Dora Roessner, Victor Vel
ten and Lawrence Conghlin Ft. Recov-
ery Tnhune-journai.
Edward Koch's 42nd birthday was duly
remembered by a group, of his friends.
who came In unawares Wednesday night
tn celebrate the event. The evening wis
nent in nlnylng Five Hundred, after
which a delicious lunch was cerved.
Those present were: Mr. and Mrs. tn
Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Leo Hildbold. Mr.
and Mrs. Ceo. lyennhnrd. Mr. and Mrs. CI.
A. Reuter. Mr. and Mrs. Fred Pansch, Mr.
nd Mrs. W. E. Wilson. Mr. nnd Mrs. Ho
mer Holmes. Dr and Mrs. W. C. Robe
son, Mrs. W. R. Tavlor and Maurice Tay
lor. Ft. Recovery Tribune-Journal.
Samuel Schwartz, who Is making his
home with his daughter, Mrs. Louis Smith
was pleasantly surprised by a number of
his old comrades last Tuesday afternoon,
the occasion being his 79th brthday anni
versary. Mr. Schwartz served four years
in rhe civil war and was orderly sergeant
in Company C. The ages of those present
ranged from 73 to 84 and included 'Squire
J- Kuhn, John McQueen, Henry Tnney,
nnnp, u-m TTnttel. fi Moore. Geo.
Koester and Henry Snider, all civil war
veterans The afternoon was spent In
fnr 'hPr hosnltalitv. The old soldiers par-
ticlpating in tho affair are all enjoying
rainy KOOQ neaun ami are unanimous in
nr-.i. thla nt tllo nps). rpn(nns
in their long careers. I neir nosr was ai-
so greatly pleased to have his old com
rades witn mm on nis uirtnaay. i oiawa
ter Chronicle.
A happy pre-lenten affair was the cele
bration of the birthday of Miss Helen
Schunck at the Infirmary last Sunday
evening. The big rooms at the Infirmary
were en fete for the party with elabor
ate garnlturei of green grlands, bloom
hyacinths, ferns and shamrock. Mrs.
Schunck and Miss Mary aided In enter
taining and the latter presented each
guest with St. Patrcik dy favors upon
their arrival. Contests of various kinds
provided the evening amusement, with
honors sroing to Beatrice nnd Wiro Puls-
ksniD. Viola Heckmnn and Raymond ruis-
knmp, Margrot Wels and Dr. Schlenker,
Lucille Grotnjnn ana oran Lanais.
Entertaining their husbands with a
sumptuous six o'clock dinner and card
party the G. and I. club last Tuesday ev
enlng celebrated their twentieth nnniver-
sry at the C. J. Hemmert home on North
Main street. Following the banquet came
round of progressive euchre with the
ladies prizes going to Mrs. John W. Desch
Mrs. Joe Schmitt, Mrs. Herman Pulskamp
and the consolation to Miss Felecla Geble.
The gentlemen's prizes were awarded to
John Gnrnler, ofSprlngfleld, a guest, John
Pulskamp. Pete Schunck and the booby
offering to Philip Linn.
Mesdmes Ora Rosier Rosier and Leonard
Gray gave a pretty surprise party at
the former's home last Monday in honor
of their respective daughters' Arburtus
nnd Nellie fifth birthday anniversary.
The youngsters In attendance were:
Leonard and Forest Suhr, Ruth Caven-
der, arcella nd Rlchrd Sprtsgs, Ruth Mer
TVith Stole Evelyn1 BumughV
MEy EUen Bez ' Ncl l o , A d ve r al on d
Paul May, Otto Grim, Clarence and Ade
line Sengplel, Mnxne Miller, Edward
ounger. Lavonne Peterman. Mnrv Pum-
nhrey. Herbert and Bernadine Pumnhrev
and Arnold Schunck.
Mrs .Bertha Merkle, of West Fayette
street was tendered a pleasant surprise
by the Idles aid society of the Bethny
Evangelical church last Monday evening,
prior to her leaving for Piqua, where
she will make he future home. Mrs.
Merkle served as president of the aid
society for several years and as an appre
ciation of her work th eladies present-
ea ner witn a linen tauie cloth. The ev
ening was spent In a social wy. Those
present were: Mrs. E. Roettger, Mrs.
Reuben Baken, Mrs. Charlotte Hays. Mrs.
Carrie Bollenbacher, Mrs. Ernest Smith,
fllrs - Heiwartn, Airs. Jiwjn Wagner.
(Continued on Eighth Page)
HE
Road Improvements Ordered
By Board Commissioners
THREE OF ROADS PETITIONED FOR
IN CENTER TOWNSHIP CHANGES
MADE ON DITCH ASSESSMENT
The Board ordered the following road
Improvements made:
The Stahl roud Improvement, petitioned
for by Henry Stahl et kl., the route of
which Is us follows: Beginning at th
northeast corner of Section 17, Granvlne
township; thence west one mile on and
along a public roud between Sections 17
and 8; thence north 1 mile between Sec
tions 7 and 8, Granville and Butler town
ships lo the northwest corner of Section
Butler township and there terminate.
Th Schmuckers road Improvement, pe
titioned for by G. H. Schmuckers et al..
the route of which Is as follows: Begin
ning at the northwest corner of Section
17, Granville township; thence south on
and along a public road between Sections
17 and 18 to the Mader & Voss pike, nnd
there terminate.
The Snavely road improvement, petition
ed for by L. U. Snavely et al, the route of
which is us follows: Commencing at the
southwest corner of Section 19, Center
township; thence east following a pub
lic road to the southeast corner of said
section 19, thence north following a pub
lic road to the northeast corner of said
Suction 19; thence west following said
public road to the northwest corner cf
Section 19, and there terminate.
The Raudubaugh road Improvement pe
titioned for by Albert Raudubaugh et al..
the route of which Is as follows: Beginn
ing ut the southeast corner of the south
west quarter of Section 21, Center town
ship; thence north following said public
highway through Section 21, and into Sec
tion 16, where said road crosses a public
highway running east and west, and the
same being at the corner of the northeast
quarter ot the northwest Quarter, of said
section and there terminate.
The Mler.su road improvement, petition
ed for by Margaret Miesse et al., the route
of which is as ollows: Beginning at a part
in the public highway ut the southeast
corner of the southwest quarter of Sec-
lion 21, Center township; thence west fol
lowing the public road between Sections
li and 2S and between Sectons 20 and 29
to a point where said road intersects the
.Mention pike, or in other words to the
southeast corner of the southwest quarter
of Section 20, same township, and there
terminate.
The Board meeting on the hearing of
the engineer's report on the Smalley ditch
after examining said report, made the fol
lowing changes and their confirmed the
assessments: Orlando Streete from 80 to
$50, J J. Shellaberger from S70 to $17,
Oscar Williams from $90 to J50, S. M.
Dysert from $75 to 60.
The Board ordered 16.000 transferred
from the Auditor's fee fund to the coun
ty fund.
I lie following bills were allowed last
Friday and are now payable:
P. A. Ellis, salary humane officer. .28 00
Delia Brown, cleaning surveyor's of
fice 6 26
Fetch Dustdown Co.. dustdown. . . 3 75
Celina El. Light Co., light 21 00
Kelley Coal Co.. coal 29 91
Barret Bros., blanks 2 70
'oluinbus B. B. Co., supplies .... 6 60
W. and L. E. Gurley, repairs 6 98
George Feters, repairs 6 60
S. A. Huffman, repairing culbert . . 6 78
Frank 11. Springer, inspector on
Springer Pike 8 00
Henry 1'renge, asst eng 2 00
P. E. Kenm y. astt. pros. atty. state
vs. Sohaller 100 00
Gabon Iron Works, sewer pipe.. .. 23 80
POLITICAL
Judge S. S. Scranton has announced
himself a candidate for State Senator
from the 3ind district, comprising Mer
cer, Auglaize, Allen Van Wert, Paulding,
Defiance and Williams.
Judge Scranton made a clean and able
fight for the port two years ago and waa
defeated by Editor William Behne, of
Bryan, Williams county. ,
There is no reason why the plum should
not be shifted from Williams, the ex
treme north end of the district, to Mer
cer the extreme south end. Senator
Behne is up this year for re-nomlnatlon,
but as there are two senators rom this
district to elect this year Judge Scranton
is going to get back into the ray.
B. F. Smith, one of the best known Re
publicans of Hopewell township, and
Treasurer of the Mercer County Mutual
Telephone Co., made It known a few days
since while at this oir.ee that he would
be a candidate for County Commissioner
at the August primary. He is the first
Republican, we believe, to toss his hat In
to the ring for a county office.
In advance of going to Tiffln on Wash
ington's birthday, Gov. Willis prepared a
speech which was given to the newspa
pers for publication. In this article the
governor took elaborate pains to show
that Thomas Jefferson was a secret trait
or to General Wshington while a member
of his cabinet and hired a Journalist nam
ed ireneau to lampoon and libel him.
When he got to Tiffin he found that he
was to address the faculty and student
body of Heidelberg college. Thereupon
he took the platform and delivered a
speech in which no reference was made
to Jefferson. The explanation is easy.
He knew that his intelligent and eduated
auditors would have quickly exposed bis '
meanness. But he was not manlv enough
to have his prepared speech withdrawn
rrom tne onio papers, it is one of tne
governor's constant complaints that the
newspapers do not tell the truth about
him. After this performance he should
forever hold his peuce.
AMONG OUR FRIENDS
N. N. Boise, of Coldwater, Route 1.
made this olllce a friendly call while In
town. Tuesday, enrolling as a new reader
of The Democrat.
J. W. Wright, of Rockford Route S, and
D. H. Morrison, of Wlllshlre Route 1,
were among our business callers TuesCay.
Joining our big family of readers.
Our old friend H. M. Brock, of Ft. Re
covery, accompanied by his son, made
this office a brief call while In town Sat
urday looking after some business matters
leaving an annual renewal.
Lawrence Elchler. who recently moved
to the Mowry farm, east of this city; Fred
Schere, of Route 8, and G. W. Becher, of
Chattanooga, were among our old friends
to drop in Saturday and make annual re
newals. G. F. Kendall, of Rockford; W. H. Bas-
tinn It..,,., ? C- T. A,111.m.
tezuma and Chas. Herrman, of Rockford,
Route 3, were among our business call
ers last Friday. Ail made the printer's
heart glad with annual renewals.
