ct"
?
4
1
If
X
it
81
Co
un
V
1
VOLUME XIV.
REPUBLICAN MASS -CONVENTION.
Pursuant to a call, a mass meet
ing of. the party was held "in the
court room Monday. Chairman
W. H. Stone called the meeting
to order and stated the object was
to elect delegates to to state and
.congressional conventions. Ev
ery thing was arranged that
morning and P. H. Thrasher wa3
nominated for chairman and John
Swaim for secretary. ' . ,
The names of the committee
on resolution was handed to
Thrasher who appointed the same
with Chas. Dunaway as chair
man. By motion, the convention se
lected the delegates instead of
being selected by a committee.
The committee on resolutions
Boon returned with a carbon copy
of resolutions furnished them by
F. S. Elgin representing the big
four who had divided out the na
tional committeman, chairman of
the state committee and the four
delegates at large. Some objec
tions were made and some of the
recommendations were ' elimina
ted and the balance , endorsed,
but no one knew just what was
or was not adopted. But enough
was passed to show that the ca
bal maneuvered by Frank Elgin
of the Republican (?) county of
' Shelby prevailed, and of course
he was endorsed for delegate for
' for state at large together with
the. three others agreed upon in
the noted conference at Nashville
a few days Ego. ' ;
A long list of delegates were
named to go to the conventions
and vote as the resolutions di
rected. The republican party in former
days would meet in the county
convention and take such steps
as their patriotism dictated, but
now it is all cut and dried, and
office is what the leaders are af
ter. They have no idea or desire
to carry the state but hope to
reach the federal pie counter via
the delegate route if the party
succeeds in getting into national
power. y
Candidates Selected.
The Republican Executive Commit
tee Monday nominated the following
ticket: ,'
For Sheriff, J. W. Gray; he had no
' opponent. After several ballots Simp
son Plunk was nominated for Tax' As
sessor; Frank Hamilton for Trustee
and. Prof. H. J, Cox for county super
intendent. .
The, Democratic Executive Commit
tee alao made the - following select-
ions: " ,; ' - :V ,":
For Sheriff A. H. Jopling; Tax A
; sessor C. L. McCullar; Trustee Elmer
Robinson, and County Superintendent
Prof. A. H. Grantham.
, All the nominees are good men and
while only half will be elected," the
defeated ones willliave the consolation
' of knowing it was a man's job to do
it. - "
Hon. Dudley Porter ' v
The political pot is beginning to
boil in the 8th Congressional District.
Dudley Porter of Paris, who is a can
dftate for Congress, was in Linden
Tuesday looking over the situation
here. He says while he failed to win
the race in the last fight, that he has
not become discouraged and fully be
lieves he is going to win this ; fight.
. He farther says that that time he
was running against Mr. Sims, but
now Mr. Sims is running against him,
for Mr. Sims has abandoned the of
fice of Congressman and pitched his
tent upon higher grounds, and was
running among the big On's and while
Mr. Sims was thus running he an
nounced for Congress, and that now
Mr. Sims was running against him.
- Mr. Porter is a deserving young
man, and has many friends in , this
county, and he is the only opponent
that Mr. Sims has ever had, that has
really made it interesting for Mr,
Sims in this county. If Mr. Porter's
old friends still believe in . him, and
rally around him as of old, he will
make a very creditable race in this
c unty. -Editorial in Perry County
'ew8s " 4 (adv.)
J NEW YORK
5 LETTER j
Editor Independent:
In a recent communication I spoke
of the immensity of the visible uni
verse, aa revealed by modern science.
No article could give ; more than
hint of what has been done by workers
in astronomy. It ia sufficient to say
that their work, carried on at many
stations in different countries, yields
results tallying so closely that there
is practically no doubt as to their cor
rectness. , , ..
The most powerful of modern tele
scopes are great tubes, a couple of
hundred feet long, and about six feet
in diameter, lying flat in the building,
as it would be impossible to mount
such a tube as the ordinary instru
ments are arranged. The light of
the star or portion of the heavens to
be studied is reflected through tubes
upca a highly polished ' mirror which
moves so as to keep up with the ce
lestial motion, and thus its object can
be studied through the great lenses
placed in the horizontal tube. Photo
graphs are taken with these instru
ments, and these, when again
magnified, show stars that were
invisible before. Double stars, one
waltzing around the other, have been
discovered in large number, and there
are some whose suddenly, varying
lights give rise to all sorts of theories
as to what they are doing. There
are also dark start, or inns, whose
fires went out ages and ages ago, and
whose cold orbs are now wandering
in space like derelict ships on the
ocean. Some of them are millions of
miles across, but their presence is
made known only by the attraction
which their mass exerts upon other
heavenly bodies. 1
You may ask how astronomers
learn the distances of these stars from
our earth. This is a very technical
matter, much beyond my own under
standing, but a rough outline of the
method ia this; An observation of
the star is taken, say January 1, and
its exact place in the heavens is noted.
Six months latar, July 1, another ob
servation of the same star is made.
At that time the earth is 186,000,000
of miles from where it was six months
before. Note is made of the inclina
tion of those two lines of observation
toward oach other, so as to figure
out how far they would have to ex
tend Into space before they came
together. This is called the parallax.
For a long time it was impossible to
work this method or the fixed stars,
although it was easy enough with the
planets of our own system. In that
way, also, the diameter of the star or
planet was determined. To give some
notion of the degree of skill with
which these observations are made, it
is enough to say that the two moons
of Mars, only about seven miles in
diameter, discovered by Professor
Hall, at a distance of 110 millions of
miles, are like apples seen oa a tree
iu Chicago by an observer in New
York; . . ; . ' V.
If the millions of suns now visible
to us, 'and the far greater number
which exist that we have not seen
and never will see, are each surround
ed by worlds like our own solar sys
tem, the thought rises: What is this
earth and its sorrows ano! sins, its joys
and virtues, compared with that num
berless host beyond, and -why should
a Redeemer have been sent to our
little speck in the sky by the Maker
of all, and that Redeemer the .only
son of that Maker? The answer of
some wise men to this is, that our
earth is the only one in the universe
that is cursed with sin; that every
thing else moves in perfect accord
and harmony with the Divine will. It
is certainly true that sin itself is mis
directed energy and ' opposition to
order, and no one can look at the
magnificent movements of the heaven
ly machinery without being impressed
with its perfect order and harmony
with the Almighty power, which made
and keeps it all. So it seems that
man, supposedly the wisest, is also
the worst of creatures. Everything
else that lives obeys the Divine law.
The German poet, Gothe, in his im
mortal "Faust," has the devil to taunt
the Lord by saying: "Thou has given
man the light of heaven, in order that
he might be more beastly than an
SELMER. McNAIRY
beast:" "Um thierischer als jedes
Thier zu sein 'But what man has
done in finding out the works of the
Almighty shows that he has the Di
vine spark in his soul, and that in the
ages to come, he will ' grow better.
Science proves to us that man has
been on the earth at least four bun
dred thousand years. Maybe that
much more time here will banish wars
and bring man in full accord with the
will of God. There are signs to indi
cate that this great war will be f ol
lowed by many . ..advances toward a
better, understanding among the
nations. The great empire of RuBsia,
for example, which 6 such an unknown
country to us, is reaching out to us
for a better understanding and closer
commercial relations. Classes for
studying the Russian language are
being formed in this city and in Wash'
ington, and the Russians , themselves
are said to regard our nation very
highly.
The mysteries of the smaller things
are as great as those of the heavens.
Ik now held by scientists- that the
smallest known particles of matter
are composed of atoms whirling
around and not touching' each other
at all. This is hard to believe, but
the proof is said to be certain. In
other words, the smallest things in
nature are like the largest; the atoms
are like planets and suns revolving
around other bodies, but none of tbem
in contact. This gives an insight in
to eternity and order such as nothing
else can.. In one human body there
are about a million of millions of cells.
Each cell is a body itself, built up of
millions of atoms whirling, but not
touching. Life holds them in place;
death disperses them so that they can
assume new forms, the body is mor
tal; the atoms are immortal. Neither
time, fire nor cold nor any violence
can hurt them; they can only be dis
persed, to be assembled in some new
form. ' Many believe these ultimate
particles to be nothing more than the
atoins of electricity, called electrons.
In order to give an idea as to the
minuteness of electrons, Sir Oliver
Lodge, the great British scientist,
says that if a molecule of hydrogen
gas we're' as large as St Paul's Cathe
dral, an electron would be aa a grain
of sand upon the floor of that building.
And a molecule of hydrogen could be
compared to a gram of sand- in size
as a grain of sand to the whole earth.
The electron , is capable of going
through most substance! like water
through a sieve, and it travels - along
a copper, wire at a rate of 180,000
miles per second. Many believe that
it is the basis of all substance, and
that the eighty-odd elements which
compose all known matter, are but
different manifestations of the same
thing,, ;Thia ia the theory of monism,
as advanced by Spinoza, Haeckel and
other famous thinkers. So that the
electricity which destroys life at Sing
Sing prison in this state, is the basis
of all life and motion. It is with a
feeling of awe that I 'look at the dead
ly third Vail in the "subway in this city,
which furnishes the current to run
the thousand or more trains daily,
strong enough to kijl, instantly, ten
thousand elephants. . It is covered
with a plank all along,, and the cur
rent is taken with what is called the
shoe, a flat piece of steel reaching out
from under the" car and rubbing along
the rail. To touch it means instant
death, and there are . many fatalities
among the track tan, in spite of all
care taken. ' ,v
All that science has done has. been
merely to scratch the, surf ace of na
ture. Nobody knows what makes the
molecules of copper hold so firmly to
gether that their cohesive power is
said to equal the propelling strength,
in a copper cent, to carry a train of
cars around ' the earth. Nobody
knows why men, trees, and everything
else that grows, attains only a certain
height or size and shape, nor why an
orange tree, strychnine tree and pep
per plant and sugar cane will grow
side by side, with the same soil and
air, and yet produce their own proi
nets without fail, so different in their
quality. Nobody knows why we are
here. Calm, trusting, unquestioning
confidence in' the kind purposes of the
Almighty is better than to try to
know it all, or we can never do it.
Lindsay S. Perkins.
Legal blanks at this office.
COUNTY. TENN.. FRIDAY. MARCH 10. IQI6.
Uses and Abuses of Fertilizers
By Prof. R. J. . D8 Loach, Director of Georgia Experiment SUtlen.
1. THE USE OF COMMERCIAL FERTILIZERS) HISTORY. ,
The First of a Series of Six Article.
We would not be disposed to try to give a complete history of the use of
commercial fertilizers, but only to show how this great Industry began and
grew In the Southern United States. Generally speaking, the farmers of this
generaUon Inherited the habit of applying fertilisers to soils, but hare not
uju laugui mo underlying principles of the Industry.
The use of some kind of manures on soils with crops for the purpose of in
creasing the yields goes back to ancient times. We know that many ncient
people applied animal manures to their soils for this purpose. The Chinese,
wsmunes ago, applied manures of various kinds to their soils and gardens and
with phenomenal results. In Von Tshudi's Travels in Peru we And that as
early as the middle of the last century notes were being taken on the actual
value of Guano by the Peruvians. - .
. Bouslngault speaks of seeing fields in Peru on which wheat grew every
year for two centuries, and the yield still high and the growers prosperous.
The practice of using mineral fertilizers was introduced direct from Pe
ru to the United States In the year 1848, and was based on such reports
as we find above. It had already been used In England before it found its
way into the United States, but Peru seems to be the country in which the
application vof minerals to soils as . plant food originated. jWi do not
know this is true, but all evidence points to this. It is 'of greater interest
to us therefore that we know about the customs In Peru.
V The First Use of Peruvian Guano. .. .
the first man Jn the Southern States to use this Peruvian guano was David
Dickson, of Sparta, Ga., who saw an advertisement of it In the old Ameri
can Farmer-published In Baltimore. The South has perhaps never had a
more successful farmer than David Dixon, who made many millions of
dollars farming, and who was" a pioneer in many other lines as well as in
the use of mineral fertilizers. In the year 1846, the year after It was intro
duced into the United States, he bought three sacks and used it, and on find
ing that it paid him, bought it in increasing quantities till th yr lE5
sd 1856, -R-hcn he "Weni into it fully." As la suggested above this is 'no
doubt the first Instance of the use of a concentrated mineral fertilizer on
cotton in the United States.
The universal success with which Mr. Dickson met in the use of this Pe
ruvian guano led many other prominent farmers to follow his example,
and in every reported case, success followed its use. We are constrained
to believe that the application of this mineral fertiliser to the
cotton and other crops in the South could not possibly have been an acci
dent. Its success was unquestionably based on the actual needs of the soiL
A quickly available manure was what the crop needed, and when this was
once applied results were evident
After a ttae It was found that the Peruvian guano, which contained prin
cipally nitrogen, produced too much stalk and not much increase in the
yield of fruit, and hefice its use was somewhat discouraged for a season.
The First Use of German Potash.
About this time the war between the States began, and at the same
time the discovery of the potash bads of Germany, also, the offering, on the
market of various kinds of mineral fertilizers resulting from the teach
ings of Von Liebig of Germany, who was at that time the greatest cham
pion in the world of agriculture and its possibilities. Aa a result the pop
ularity of Peruvian guano subsided and more study was given to the gen
eral question of the use of mineral manures, both by farmers themselves
and the students of agriculture.
Two great contributing factors to the rise of the fertiliser trade in the
South are first the abolition of slavery, and second, the rise of agricul
tural education. Before the war the question of land was secondary. If
rowing farm crops in the South "wore the land out," there were plenty of
slaves to "take in more land." It was cheaper to take in land than to nay
for any artificial manure. In 1862, the Morrill Bill passed Congress,
creating agricultural colleges in the various states, after which there "be
gan a campaign lor improving methods in agriculture. Experiments at
public expense were begun on a small scale, and the public was induced to
make greater use of plant foods of all kinds, as well as to improv aethsds
-i tiUsss. This, or course, caused an immediate increase in the use of min
eral plant foods, and out of which grew demands for great quantities of
fertilizers. From this great demand there sprang up fertiliser factories in
all parts of the country. All kinds of materials were tried out, some was
good, and some was not, but much of both kinds used. The factories had
no restrictions and many of them palmed off on the tanners anything that
would smell strong and that could be put in sacks. This condition on ac
count of state laws did not last long. We begin the next article by giving a
resume of the part taken in the rise - of the trade by the states themselves.
STATEMENT OF THE CONDITOIN OF
HOME BANKING CO.,
located at Finger, Tenn.,
at the close of business, Feb. 28, I9I6
RESOURCES
Loans and discounts..'.
I ,95?.17
2,000.00
. . 800.00
Banking house..
Furniture and fixtures.......
Actual cash on hand $1,616.20
Due from banks and
bunker (on demand) 31,296.71
33,913.01
Totiil.;
444,670.08
LIABILITIES
Capital stock '
paid in.. ...'....
8,000.00
500.00
418.35 $8,918.35
Surplus fund T
Undivided prof
its less expens
es and taxes pd.
Individual dep.
subject to ck.
..82,418.1
Demand certifl- .
cates of deposit
Cashier's C'ks...
3.998.56.
v 334.29
Total demand deposits.,
Totals.
..$ 35.751 73
, $ 44,670.08
State or Tennessee, McNalry County
I, L. A. Weaver, cashier of the above
named bank, do solemnly swear that the
above statement is true, ami give the
actual condition of Said bank as shown
by the books on file in said bank. .
L. A. WEAVER, Cashier.
Subscribed and sworn to this 8th day
of March, 1916.
W. P. MASSEY, Notary Public
Correct Attest:
J. R. Harris, Director.
H. L. Hodges, Director.
J. S. Lain, Director.
Card of Thanks.
We wish to say to our. friends
theough the Independent, that we ap
preciate their kindness to us daring
the sickness and death of oar sister
and aunt, Mrs. Jane Andrews, not
only for this time, but for all their
goodness to us during the last few
years. .-We hope that your lives may
be free from the afflictions which
hare been our lot -
Miss Sallik Dixon.
' James Paschal.
Acton News.
Harris Hardin, of the Corinth post-
office, attended services here Sunday.
Miss Myrtle Gann, of near Corinth,
was the guest pf her sister, Mrs. Leo
Atkins, recently.:
W.6. Bryce attended church at
Corinth Sunday and brought Bro. N.
B. Hardeman back ia his car. The
latter preached an eloquent sermon
here Sunday evening.
Dr. Aber'nathy and Prof. Plunk vis
ited Selmer Monday. r
,.. Mr. and Mrs. Gene Atkins, of near
Corinth, spent Sunday with the form
er's mother, Mrs. Dora Atkins. ; .
J Mrs. Ella Mills visited her father,
Jas. Marlar, at Kendrick this week.
Rev. Whittaker, of Corinth, and
Miss Esther Springer, of Tula, were
married Sunday by Bro. Hardeman.
A large crowd attended the cele
bration of Washington's birthday at
the schoolhouse. The door receipts
amounted to $20.80.
Bro. J. Madison Wright spent last
week in this vicinity, preaching. in
a number of homes.
Another Old Citizen Dead.
Mrs. Jane Andrews, aged 86 years,
died Friday. She was an invalid for
many months, and fell a few days be
fore ber death and broke her hip,
which hastened her death.
She was one of the six Dixon sis
ters, all deceased except one. Mrs.
Andrews was a member of the Baptist
church, and was well known and loved
by all the old citizens of the county.
Funeral services were held at her late
home by Revs. Curry and Carnell. Interment-was
made beside her sisters
in the family lot at Oakhill cemetery.
- Marriage Licenses
A. C Maxedon to Ella Maxedon.
A. C. Meeks to Hattie Newell.
Henry Phillips to Leona Watts.
Hurshell Walker to Maggie Ether
idge. Napolean Fowler to Mae L Rucker.
J. L. Bash am to Zadie Naylor.
J, F. Dillon to Mrs. B. D. Sanders.
IN THE BASEMENT STORE AT
we offer 1,000
pairs of ?
MEH'S S2.00 and S2.50
Corduroy
I
at 98c
at regular wholesale are fuiiy $18
and $24 the dozen.
we also
about
n
1,000 pairs of Men's Casimere and
Worsted Pants at $1.45 and $1.45
worth double. It is the greatest
Pant Sale we have had in 10 years
Chas.
Corinth, AIlss.
Something
To jret started with you we make; you the following
offer: Seud us $1.60 for 1,000 Frost Proof Cabbage
Plants, grown in the open air and will stand freezing,
grown from the Celebrated Seed of Bolgina & Son and -Thorbom
& Co., and I will sand you 1,000 Cabbage
Plant additional Free, and you can repeat the order
as many times aa you like. Twill give you special -prices
on Potato Seed and Potato Plants later. We
want the account of close buyers, large and small.
Wecansupply aU. ,t
I t CENTS will bring you for FOUR months as a trial subscription
111 the South's greatest poultry journal. It has more practical ar
I V tides in one month than others have in six. A paper that la
worth something to every farmer and beginner in the poultry
business. It is a paper that every poultry club member should get.
oeuu mrect to me Mississippi rouiirymaD, box , mpeio, MIS8.
J , I. . 1 . I -p J .. JIMWHi 1 . 1 . 01 1
" . . 2)
It is free it tells how you can have ?
local and long distance telephone ser-(
vice in your home at very small cost !
Send for it today. Write nearest Bell Tele
phone Manager, or
FARMERS' LINE
anri TAiPcrrjinti rnmnaiw
INCORPORATED. ,
"-:LI:,vJ.v- BOX 2X7, JACKSON, TENN, J. Z
NUMBER 35
Pants
the pair
offer
H. Gish
for Nothing
Youngs Island, S. C.
ATLANTIC COAST PLANT: CO
This
Book -,!
DEPARTMENT
'A
r
