THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 305..
HAKKK. VERMONT, FJUDAY, MAIICII 10, 1910.
ritlCK. OXK CKXT.
'1
5,000 AMERICAN TROOPS
ARE ORDERED TO MEXICO
Have Been Sent By President Wilson
To Cross Line In Pursuit of the Villa
Bandits Who Attacked Columbus,
New Mexico, And Murdered 16
Americans
VILLA'S CAPTURE OR DEATH
IS THE CHIEF OBJECT
FORMER NORWICH MAN
IS PURSUING VILLA
Fntnk Tompkins, who is report
ed to be at t he head of tlio Amer
ican troop which invaded Mexico
yesterday in purHuit of Villa, is
well known in Vermont, having
heen commandant at Norwich uni
versity from iniO-1013. He in the
son of Brigadier General Charles
If. Tompkins, V. S. A., retired,
who commanded the first Vermont
cavalry six months in the Civil
war. General Tompkins at that
time whs a major in the regular
army. He is still living and re
sides in Washington.
MAKES REQUEST OF BRITAIN
U. S. Government Does Not Consider
the Expedition As An Invasion of t
Mexico And Will Continue to Treat
With Carranza Government Gen
eral Funston In Charge
For Copy of Confidential Instructions to
Ship Commanders.
Washington, I). C, March 10. The
United States has asked (ireat Britain
for a cony of the confidential instruc
tions to commanders of British merchant
esscls, which Gerlnanv claims prove
that merchantmen armed ostensibly for
defensive purposes have orders to act of
fensively against German and Austrian
submarines. The request is understood
to have lieen made yesterday through
Sir Ceijl Spring-Rice, the British ambas
sador. This is the first step the United States
has taken since administration officials
begun studying the complete memoran
dum, in which Germany announced its
Washincton D C. March 10. President Wilson to-day ordered intention to treat as warships armed
Hmi . , v , , ! merchantmen of the entente allies, its sp-
Amencan troops over me lviexican uumci iu mmic m
TWO WARSHIPS
FALL VICTIMS.
BEFORE MINES
British Lose Torpedo Boa
Destroyer Coquette and
Torpedo Boat No. 11, Ac
cording to an Official An
nouncement Made ir Lon
don To-day
TOTAL CASUALTIES
AMOUNTED TO 45
Large French Line Steam
ship Louisiana, Which
Sailed from New Orleans
Is Sunk by German Sub
marine off French Coast
No Casualties
London, March 10. The British tor
pedo boat destroyer Coquette and the
torpedo boat Ho. 11 Have been sunk by
mines, with 45 casualties, it was official
ly announced this afternoon.
pemlices, and the subsequent memoranda
on the subject submitted by Count Von
BernstorfT, the German ambassador.
Pending receipt of the copy of the in
structions asked for, the state depart
ment, it was said, will not consider the
question of whether the British govern
ment, as charged by Germany, has vio
lated the assurances given during the
early days of the war in regard to the
peaceful character which would 1 as
sumed bv British merchantmen.
ENORMOUS GERMAN LOSSES.
Villa bandits who yesterday raided Columbus, New Mexico. Major
General Scott, chief of staff, of the army, announced that the expe-
rlitioTi would consist of not less than 5,000 men, all of whom are
available on the border under Major-General Funston.
,; In its present stage, the president's order does not mean armed
intervention in Mexico. It provides for a punitive expedition to
deal with the lawless forces over which the Carranza government
has no control.
The following statement was issued at the White House:
"An adequate force will be sent at once in pursuit of Villa, with
the single object of capturing him and putting a stop to his forays.
This can be done and will be done in entirely friendly aid of the
constituted authorities in Mexico and with scrupulous respect for
the sovereignty of that republic." " .
It was said at the White House that the American government
wants Villa dead or alive, and that no steps will be neglected to
carry out that project. It was declared that the United States will
not consider thepunitive expedition an invasion of Mexico and will
continue to deal with the Carranza government. The American
government is still opposed to armed intervention in Mexico, but
has decided that the peace of both Mexico and the United States
is imperiled by the continued activities of Villa. The cabinet was
united in its decision that Villa must be caught.
There are more than 4,000 cavalry and
a battalion of the 4th Mountain artil- Cum's report, as given out by General
lery with 12 mountain guns in the ter- Eunston at Fort Sam Houston:
ritory, between Douglas, Ariz., and Kl "When Villa troops fell back just be-
Paso, Tex. They could be assembled at fore daylight, we followed them with a
any point within 24 hours. In the same dismounted line. At the same time 1 attack was broken by our infantry and
territory are eight regiments of infan- set Major Tompkins with three troops artillery fire. Furious assaults against
try. the tith held artillery, making an mounted to attack. Tompkins followed the vil'lage of Vaux likewise were re-
auuutonai ioree oi approximately ,u for about five miles into Mexico, having pulsed with heavy losses for the enc
:..rn..(.,n. n.t nt i:..ia . i ..... .. ..... ... 1
...i.ii.i. j mm o'f n, iu ouu minimum mree running ngtits witn tnem, and they
puns which will be gathered within two finally made a stand with their entire
days, force and stopped Tompkins' advance
The mountain battery is designed es- mu te returned here. We hud one es
pecially for fighting of the character poral killed in the pursuit. The Mexi
that the troops will encounter when ,.an8 dronncd considerable material and
they continue further the pursuit of the i(K,t that they had gotten in town. I
bandits. The guns are transported on 8IU r'liablv informed it was Villa who
juules and accompanied by an ammuni- made the attack with l.r.OO men, leaving
tion train which will permit tliem to about 1,000 on the river east of Boca
operate with the cavalry in the hills. Grande. From' his spies in Columbus,
In addition the 13th cavalry, the 7th, he wa(t informed that there were but four
8th and Kith regiments are scattered troops here with three machine guns,
along the border in the territory de- Three of our troops being out he took
scribed. The fith, 7th, Kith and 20th in- this opportunity to attack,
fantry are at Kl Paso, 00 miles from Co-1 "He intended capturing the town, loot
luinhns; the 12th infantry is at Xogales, jnjf the bank and killing all American,
between Columbus and Douglas; tho. 11th Our casualties were five wounded, seven
18th and 22d infantry are at Douglas killed. Lieut. Benson was shot in the
with the fith field artillery and the 1st arm. Captain Williams, adjutant, re-
battalion of the 4th mountain artillery, i ceived a slight wound in the hand. Eight
Were Sustained Before French "Curtain
of Fire."
Paris, March 10. Further progress for!
the French in the Corbeaux wood is re
ported in the official statement issued ! Boulogne and Havre and whVh tor
FRENCH STEAMSHIP
FROM NEW ORLEANS
LOST OFF FRANCE
The Louisiana Was Sunk By Submarine
But All Her Crew Were Saved
The Boat Carried No Pas
sengers. Paris, March 10. A Havaa dispatch
from Havre eavs that the British line
steamship Louisiana Dank last night.
Her crew were saved. There were no
passengers aboard
It is presumed that the Tessel wm
sunk by the same submarine that has
been operating along tlje coast between
APPROVE ISSUE
'250,000 STOCK
The Vermont Public Service
Commission Grants Right
to Montpelier & Barre Co.
CAUGHT IN SWEEP
OF PASSING TRAIN
AND KILLED
CONVERT BONDS INTO
PREFERRED STOCK
Brief Hearing on Applica
tion Was Held at Mont
pelier To-day
by the war office last night, as well as a
German repulse along the front from
Douaumont.
"In Belgium our artillery has displayed
activity against the enemy positions to
the south of Loinbaertzyde.
In Champagne we effectively bombard
ed the defensive organizations of the en
emy to the west of Navamn, to the east
of the Hutte Du Mesnil, and in the region
of Massiges.
"To the west of the Meusc our troops
continued to make progress during tin? I
course of the dav in the Bois Des Cor
beaux, almost the whole of which we
hold.
"To the east of the Meuse the Germans
directed several attacks against our front
from Douaumont as far as aux. At the
outskirts of the village of Douaumont an
pedoed the steamer Ilermatriee. The
l.auisiana bad arrived from Xew Or
leans. Xo details of the loss of the ship
were given out.
GERMANS REPORT CAPTURE.
State They Have Seized Ablate Wood-
Admit Loss at Vauz Fort.
Berlin, via London, March 10 The cap
ture of Ablain wood was announced to
day by the German army headquarters
It was stated that the French had re
gained a foothold in the fort of Vaux.
"Finally, the German launched against
our trenches bordering the foot of the
slopes of the ridge dominating Fort
Vaux violent attacks in solid formations
! which were driven back, the Germans
suffering from our curtain of fire enor
mous losses.
"The artillery activity to the west and
east of the Meusc has been very violent
on both sides."
VERMONT ENGINEERS MEET.
H. M. Mcintosh of Burlington Elected
President.
Burlington, March 10. The fourth an
nual meeting of the Vermont Society of
Kngineers was held at the Hotel Vermont
VIOLENT ARTILLERY
FIRING KEPT UP,
i BUT NO INFANTRY
46 Mexicans Killed.
Major-Gcneral Funston sent this tele-!
gram to General Scott last night: !
"The only information that 1 have of
our troopg having crossed the border is
newspaper reports. Reports from Col
onel Slocum most meagre, in spite of tel- j
rgram to him this morning for full par-!
ticulars.. I w ired him this afternoon ft I
full report. Will forward further details I
i as soon as i can gei tnem
"Latest renort from Co
41 Mexican soldiers killed. Seven '
yesterday, the president, A. C. Grover of
civilians were killed in the town, includ-' Rutland, presiding over morn.ng.-after
imr one woman. We have alrea.lv buried ""v" "ml ".-iinig sessions,
twenty-seven Mexican soldiers, most of
them killed in the camp, some near the
bank and there are many other dead
Mexicans on Villa's line of retreat about
one mile west not yet collected."
MACHINE GUNS FAILED.
Explanation Why Villa Bandits Got Off
"Latest report from Colonel Slocum &0 ""V 41 -oiumous.
says 4i .Mexican soldiers killed. Seven! aso, lex., .vjarcn in. failure oi
seriously wounded now in camp. We had the machine guns to work at the moment
seven killed, two ollicers and five men wnen mev were most needed at me ic-
w uindcd. They will recover."
200 MEXICANS DEAD
IN FIRST BATTLE
The annual
dinner was served at the hotel at 3:30
o'clock, about 40 covers being laid.
The morning session opened at ten
o'edoek and took the form of the an
nual business meeting. The first business
transacted was the election of officers to
serve the ensuing year, which resulted as
follows: President, II. M. Mcintosh of
Burlington; vice presidents, 1J. M. Hay
wood of Montpelier and ". H. Vorce,
who bold over
French Semi-Official Report States That
the Situation Before Verdun on
Both Sides of River Meuse
Is Unchanged.
Paris, via London, March 10. There
is no change in the situation before Ver
dun either east or west of the river
Meuse, according to a serai-official an
nouncement this afternoon. The an
nouncement adds that a violent bom
bardment continues on both banks of the
river but there were no infantry attacks
bv tiie Germans.
The petition of the Montpelier
Barre Light A, Power company, now des
ignated as the Montpelier & Barre eom
pany, for the approval of the issue of
stock to the amount of $250,000, was
granted by the Vermont public service
commission following a brief hearing at
Montpelier to-day and the formal order
will be made at once. The hearing start
ed at 9 o'clock in the supreme court
chamber at the State House, all of the
members of the commission being pre
put. Attorney Fred K. Gleason, Howard
Sands of Boston and Manager II. D.
Larrabee of Montpelier appeared for the
petitioning company and II. C. Conant
represented the state.
The hearing was completed within
half hour, the financial situation of the
company being fully explained by an
affidavit signed by Mr. Sands and read
to the commission by Attorney Gleason
The petition, which is in reality a se
quel to the one granted Feb. 18 to allow
the issue of bonds amounting to $195,
000, the money used in acquiring the
Waterbury Light &' Power company,
reads in substance as follows:
"The authorized capital stock of the
Montpelier & Barre company is $4,810,-
000 divided into 38,000 shares of 6 per
cent cumulative preferred stock and 1V
000 shares of common stock of par value
of $100, of which authorized stock there
now outstanding $2,310,000 par value
preferred and $1,000,000 par value of
common stock. On Oct. 1, 1914, the
Montpelier & Barre company made a
mortgage of property, etc., to the Amer
ican Truat company of Boston to secure
an authorized issue of $2,500,000, 30
year, 5 per cent convertible gold bonds.
"The holders of the bonds so issued
were given an option on and after March
I, 1010, to convert the same into the
company's 8 per cent cumulative stock
at par,
"In order that it may lawfully meet
its obligations with respect to the con
version of said $i")0,000 bonds into pre
ferred stock, the company asks that the
commission approve the issue of $'250,000
par value of its cumulative stock, the
same to be used solely for the purpose
of accomplishing the conversion.
For each $100 face value of such of
said $250,000 bonds as are presented and
surrendered, the Montpelier & Barre
company may issue $100 par value of
preferred stock."
Washington County Farm
ers Will Have County
Agent
DECISION REACHED
AT BARRE MEETING
Engineer W. C. Campbell of St. Albans
Waa Standing Between Tracks Re
pairing Leak in Engine Tank
His Body Was Carried
Quarter of a Mile
to Bethel
Bethel, March 10. When the nortl
bound mail train over the Central Ver
mont railway pulled into the station a
few minutes lata yesterday afternoon,
somebody noticed a human body bauiy
mangled, beneath the mail car. Dr. O.
I). Greene and A. Leo Cady were sum
moned nnd with the aid of 1-ewia II.
Whitney and some of the railroad men,
they carefuUy removed the lifeless re
mains of V. C. Campbell of St. AIban,
engineer of a northlsmnd freight tram,
which had Wen waiting on a sidetrack
for the arrival of the mail train.
Conductor Hanson of the freight train
said that he and Kngineer Campbell were
standing near together between tho
tracks, repairing a leak in the tank of
their engine when the mail train whizzed
by Ana he suddenly became conscious
that he was alone. Apparently Mr.
Campliell was so near the main line that
ne was caugi.t and drawn neneam w.o e a y ttf,nutllril, aont to l)0
ii til ii, iiu wan rm uni a uuni hi
TO BOOM FARM
INTERESTS
Three Candidates Appeared
Decision Rese J
Till Next Wp A
Washington count ?" rmers, member
of the agricultural .iciation organized
in Barre last ycr n-t in Howland hall
yesterday and J unanimously to en-
mile or more and death must have been
nearly instantaneous.
The physicians and undertaker found
the body very Istdly mangled, one arm
and one leg being severed and the head
partly severed. The body was prepared
for burial in time to be carried to St.
Albans on the express train which left
about o:30 p. m.
The funeral waa held there this after
noon and the body will be taken to-night
to Brunswick, Me., for burial
The engineer was known bv some of
the railroad men here and hail leen em-
plaved about, eight rears on this division
He is said to have had a wife and two
or three children, and to have been about
34 years of age.
DEATH OF JOHN FORBES.
Was a Granite Cutter in Barre Granite
Belt Nearly 30 Years.
John Forbes, for nearly 30 years a
Barre granite cutter and for 18 years an
employe of Barclay Bros., passed away
at his home, 2d Merchant street, Thurs
day afternoon, the end following a pro
tracted illness. Two vears ago Mr.
gin his duties April 1 or as soon there
after as possible. Thus it appears that
Washington county is Boon to join tho
majority of her sister counties in Ver
mont in having a paid adviser who shall
devote his whole time to agricultural
problems within his constituency. Three
candidates for the position were -examined
yesterday and others arc to appear
lx'fore the farmers at an adjourned meet
ing of the assoication to be held in How
land hall Thursday afternoon, March Iff,
at 1 :3(l o'clock.
Although the association on the occa
sion ot its organization in February,
1015, gave its unqualified indorsement to
the county agent plan and went so far
as to organize permanently with a chair
man, a secretary and an executive com
mittee composed of a member from each
town in the county, difficulties were en
countered in obtaining the necessary
support from the towns. Xow, however.
legislative amendment has eliminated
the necessity fur obtaining aid by in
serting a special article in the town
warnings, the amendment making assist
ance mandatory on the basis of a ry
rata grand list assessment. Where in
the past the county associations hail to
go to the several town meetings for the
Forbes suffered a fracture of one of the
lower limbs, from which he never fully assistance, act.Xo. 120 of the public acts
covered, i ntu a week ago lie was anio lot wis now compels the towns to par
to be about the house. He is survived their pro rata assessment annually be-
by his wife; a (laughter, Mrs. George i fore the first of September. Moreover, -White
of Barre: and three sons. Thomas I there is a provision wherehv the Ktnt
Forbes, William Forbes and .lohn Forbes, tax commissioner shall annually, before
all of whom reside in this city. Mr.
Forbes also leaves a sistei', Mrs. Donald
son of Midmair, Scotland, and three,
brothers, William Forbes, Ihmcan Forbes
and Thomas Forbes, who reside in Aber
deen, Scotland. j
The deceased was born in Aberdeen
Oct. 31, 18fi5, and cmne to America as a
vtving man. For two vears lw was em-
July 1, notify the chairman of the se
lectmen or the mayor of each town of
the proportional part of $1,200 due the
association under the act. The assess
ment is obedient only to the provision
that the association shall have in its em
ploy a county agent.
Yesterday's gathering van verv repre
sentative of the fanning population in
ploved in Maine and came afterward to Washington county and much entbusi-
Barre. He has resided in this city and asm was manifested over the prospect of
MAY LOSE MARKET.
FRENCH HOLDING
VAUX VILLAGE
AND ALSO FORT
Official Note Was Issued To-day Denying
Claim in German Official Report
By Posen Reserve
Regiment.
Paris, March 10. An official note has
been issued, categorically denying the
statement in the German official an-
secretary, G. A. Reed of j nouncement yesterday that the village
For Vermont Prison-made Goods Con
ference is Held.
Burlington, March 10. A conference
was held at the Hotel Vermont yesterday
between Gov. C. W. Gates and the mem
bers of the Vermont penal board on a
subject of vital importance to the penal
institutions of the state, a promised fed
eral law which would forbid the sale of
goods manufactured by inmates of tho
house of correction or state s prison out
side the state.
There are now before Congress, in the
House and Senate, five bills which have
for their object the abolishment in all
states of manufactures of the class men
tioned by tarring the products from in
terstate, commerce.
Such a law as contemplated by the
framers of these measures," said Judge
Weeks, chairman of the penal board, to
a reporter, "would put us out of busi
ness." While those present at the conference
would give nothing out for publication,
it was stated that the object of the
meeting was to consider the advisability
of sending a representative from Ver
mont to appear before the proper com
mittees at Washington against the pro
posed legislation and such a representa
tive will undoubtedly be appointed.
Those present were (Jovernor Gates
Fast Barre for the past 30 years. He
was a member of fclan Gordon, Xo. 12,
O. S. C, and also Isdonged to Granite
City ramp, M. W. of A. Mr. Forbes was
well "known among his fellows in the
granite cutters' union and by them held
in high esteem. He was an adherent of
the Presbyterian church.
Funeral services are to he held at the
house Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
having an agent by early spring. Thom
as Bradlee of the extension service of the
State College of Agriculture was present
and after addressing the meeting, aided
very materially in getting under way
tangible plans for action. Frank C. Ban
croft of Barre Town acted as chairman
and F. G. Howland of this city as secre
tary. Among the towns represented,
notwithstanding the inclemency of the
Rev. Edgar Crossland, pastor of the First j weather, were the following: Marshfield
Presbyterian church, will probably be
the officiating clergyman, and interment
will be made in Hope cemetery.
IN DARKEST DEPOT SQUARE
Calst 3, East Montpelier 7, Water-
bury 1, Barre Town 10, Berlin 4, Plain
field I, Barre City 3.
For the most part it was an open
forum affair with everyone present priv
ileged to speak his mind as freely as ho
chose. Without an exception, the meet
ing went on record as favoring the im
mediate execution of the plan. One
farmer said he had belonged to the
Orange county association for some time
and even though he had derived much
Bane Police Ran Up Against Two Al
leged Unruly Men.
In darkest Depot square this morning
at 2:3(1 o'clock, Ollicers David Henderson
uni .lnhn W Diiipfin IimiI in pvfptiil fli,.in-
selves mightily in rounding up a pair of I !H',,p,t fro, his affiliation, ho "'as anx-
alleged disturbers, whose nocturnal am ;"l't""" w" '
operations are said to have had a dia- 1)18 own county. It developed that the
quieting effect on tenants of the flat!8""' of $--200 advanced by the federal
over the oflice of the gas company. Pet- j government, providing a hke sum is pro
er Hcndrickson and Andrew Kope'la wore ! vuled by the county, wil 1m- available
arrested after en exciting chase and i b.v I,.,1' 11 The sum of $200 generously
lodged in cells at police headquarters. P.'sed by the Barre Savings Hank &
When arraigned before Magistrate H. W. Tni8t hic was f,no of t'iepnme
Scott in city court to-dav, each pleaded ; movm ,n the d.rect.on ol employing an
not guilty to an intoxication charge. Bail .wou1,1 he aval able as soon as an
of $50, asked of each respondent, will bo nJmt cured, and a sum offered by
....... . . . tlia ataf.i mi 1 1 htai ii- ill a lurk lui a -a ila Ttln
furnished if the young men can obtain
security by to-morrow. Hearings were
set for Wednesday morning, March 15.
within a short time.
Three young men who said they would
It is alleged that Hcndrickson andjjilkp to.lr vnsidered as candidates for
Kopela are responsible for a door-breaking
incident at the entrance to the sec
ond floor of the big wooden block just
east of the Central Vermont station. A
the position were given each an individ
ual hearing. H. F. Johnson of Burling
ton, a 101 4 graduate of the State College
of Agriculture, was the first to be heard.
ginning of the fight between the Villa
bandits and the 13th cavalry at Colum
bus early vesterday mornine was the rectors. The Isiard of (rovernin.nt is im
Montpelier; treasurer, Prof. A. E. Wins-;and armored fort of Vaux had been cap
low of Xorthfield; director for three :tured in a glorious night attack by a
years, F. W. Denison of St. Albans, C. F. Posen regiment. This assertion, the note
1'nrinton and Prof. J. W. otey of tnia;says, is in every way false. The note
city holding over on the board of di- jalso denies other recent claims to sue-
,Tudge.!ohn h. eeks of Middlebury, and h. of Finnish ,., leavinir 'ti !Mr. Johnson told of bis connection with
11. 1. mmwin ot yyens Kiver. i lie third , ... . . -, . , - . .the state eoll,g
member of the board, E. T. Davis
Chester, was not able to be here.
REWARD DIVIDED BETWEEN TWO.
cause attributed for the escape of the
bandits across the border and also for
(the relatively small loss of life among
;tliem, according to Private I humus Bar
U. S. Army Officers Estimated That Vil- ton of the hospital corps, who, wth Pri
vate K. M. Johnson brought five wounded
soldier and one oilicer to El Paso yes
terday afternoon.
According to the men the attack be
gan near the edge of Columbus. There
Columbus. N. M.. March 10. Annroxi- wpr no r weapons of any kind
niately 2o Mexicans were kilh'd in the in hospital. Johnson said be killed I
la's Forces Were Badly Decimated
After Clash with U. S.
Troops.
posed of the directors and the two latest
past presidents.
GERMAN OFFENSIVE
IN EAST HALTED
lees-es in the fighting around Verdun.
battle willi I'nited SUte soldiers yes
terday after the raid in which sixteen
one Villa tandit with an axe which he'
threw as the fleeing Mexican passed
i, American civilians and soldiers lot their the T'"' h,uting
hve, according to estimates of army olli
vers to-day. Army patrols and civilians
j-dsy maintained a close watch f re
appearing Knuiits along the border.
VILLA HALTED THE PURSUIT.
Made a Stand and U. S. Troops Turned
About
Viva Villa!
Johnson also aid the liody of Pablo
Ls'jei. Villa's lieutenant, who directed '
the massacre of the IS Americans at
Santa Ysabel two months ago,
identified. He exhibited what he said
were Ixqwi' leggings.
Irivat .lani.-s Venner, troop K. who!
was shot thrmigH the cbet. ssv-he killed i
.four Mexicans and was raiiii! his rirle
San Antonio. Tei Msrch 10. .H to fire at another when a bull.-t Mrurk
peaceful a summer mominff at this hint. He sys many of tl-e gi:n u-e-1
wnting." u the way (Inl- n, I sj.rum bv the bandit were 22 calibre r iles an-1
dem-ribed the situation in Columbus lapt others w-reof ancient models. Th Villa
tuc'-t- j men. be said, were witle-ut uuciiiua
Following Is the text f Ccael S-lo-iin.
There are signs of renewed ac
tivity to the eastern front, where
the Russians and Germans have
been feeling out each other's linos
at various points, with resulting
isolated engagements. The most
important move on the northern
end of the line semis to have been
the German effort to cross the
Dvina river above Dvink. A con
siderable German force engaged in
this effort was dipcred by Rus
sian tire, Pctrogra t claims.
In Turkish Armenia the R'tf
sian advance a?aint the Tmk
continue, further progre sloti
the I'Jai-k sea mast toward Treb
rond 1 ing reported. I!iisin suc-res-e
in Armenia are ibilaritl tT
the I'riti-h r- to make a fusi
bility of a Turkish attik on the
Suer canal vrrv remote.
CALLED TO ARMS.
AH Portuguese Naval Reserves Ordered
to Report.
Lisbon, March 5. via Paris, March 10
(delayed.) An oflicial decree was pla
carded to-night, summoning all naval re'
serves to join their ships immediately.
$1,000 Was Offered for Capture of John
H. Wren.
Keene, X. H., March 10. The an
nouncement of the division of the re
ward for the capture of John H. Wren
was received by Clerk of Court L. W.
Holmes, front Judge Chamberlain yester
uay. Milton Snowden, a colored porter at
the North station in Boston, is to re- 'neveral vears airo
2 olrwk train Are said to have fwcii
o 4i,. d.t;n 1,,- ii.iP;,.i.-Cr,n o.,,i 'with
Kopela. who are alleged to have commit
ted misdemeanors after the train de
pa rted.
The police believe that the ill-lighted
nnn.lili.in nf Tl. . it an , , a r A h 1 irt, , A -An.
-.li-rf t once experiment station
MAIL ROBBERY CHARGED.
ge after gradu?on and
the extension service. John W.
Bartlctt of New Brunswick, N. J., alo
a 1014 graduate of the slate college, was
the next to appear. Mr. Bartlett is a
native of Granville, X. V., and has seen
I considerable Service in the Xew Jersey
F. C. Shaw of Man
chester Center, a 1013 graduate of the
Cornell university agricultural school,
was the last to be given a hearing. Mr.
3,153 NON-COMBATANT
BRITISH HAVE BEEN SILLED
r
-
London. March 10. The number
of non-contestants killed by Great
Britain's enemy since the N-gin-nine
of the war aggregate 3.1.V1.
Premier Aquith wr;te in reply to
a request for information by Su
jor Hunter. Forty-nine men. 3!)
women and ."!! children were killed
in 1 bomlairdments; 127 men
!' women and S7 children were
kdicd in air raids; and approxi
mately C.T-V non -combatant hwt
their live aboard Bnti-h mer
rhant and tishing rl. Jjf v.
Shaw, since his graduation, has been
John F, Blake Says He Was Trying to j(,m,m.t0,i jtl, the Farming Trade school
Intercept Letter to His Wife. on Thompson's island, near Boston. AH
Rutland. March lO.-John F. Blake, j fin- were asked to name the sslary
who caused considerable of a sensation ; would eve t.
hen he h"t a man ! neiore adjournment inc cnairman ari l
ceive H0 and Francis Hanrahan of Hah- !k ... ...i.i.i.,. i , n, ,.r ,,,! south secretary were instructed to draft a con-
fax, X. S., a detective, who aiTested 0f ti1P cjty was arrested vest crd v afler- : stitution trt be submitted at the ad
Wren, is to receive the balance of ('ss. 'n,M,n f)y ivrmtr I'nited 'states Marshal journed meeting n. xt Thursday. If the
In February, 1913. J. Steward Hamil- Edward S. Wluttaker on a charge of ex- ; draft meet with the approval of the a-
ton. a wslking boss for the Holbrook. r.tim from the mails a letter ad-, social ion. u win i.ruoamv oe rauneu aa
Cabot & Rollins corporation, w hich was ' ,lr.-sed to bis w ife. Mrs. Emma P. Wake,
constructing a railroad at Hinsdale, w'as jtiake was picked tip by "Uicer T. C. Ei
killed, and the corporation offered $ l.'""! , worth and later in the day he was ar
for the appreh ension and delivery of the.raigned Iwfore I nited state ( ommis
mnrderer to the Xew Hamphire"author- ;jin,-r Jam- A. Merrill, when bail was
that time.
LOOKS LIKE A BEAR.
itie.
fixed at .!"".
Wren wa sentenced to life imprison-1 f.lakc wa in-li-ts at a ro-rrit (
ment for the crjme and sev-n claimant in of the f.-.lersl grand jury at l!ur
came forward for all or part of the re-;lmt:tn and he i charged with taking
ward. Hie company which offered the the letter frmn the i-t';!;re at IKddcn
reward asked the court to divide where in the town of bittenden. tli county,
it should go. and a bearing on the mat- ' Althoiight IhUc ma le no statement, it
But, Then. It
May Be
Calf.
Only a Freaic
Stowe. Mar.h 10 .V fre.vk -lf of a
few da" .ld in the held of H.-rl ei t
Pace on Edson I. ill. is said to show
Mnkirii: re-emblance to a hear. It i
ab"bt two feet high. It lr are shaipi-J
ter was held in Kerne before Judire is tinlerstsl that he practically admit l.ke that ol a t--r. and although it ha
ChamWlain. early in February. 'taking the letter, but iaims , a i- I, ,.,. it walk tank iin its ien ,la
The other five claimant were Frank ' tetn; t ing to gt i idenee against . !.k a lar. It ha a t!k. smooth t;ir
O'Brien of I-Mon. Iavi,l S. (nn-w ( bi.-f te. w)o, be said, was rmiiir inonr v an I it e,rs and ti.e -!ars ot it
of Toll, ,eon?e Wilson and Ra'jli Ki.k- j'roiii ot her tr.n. It ut said be will tUim . a 1 aie l.ke t..- if a l sr. W '.en up
wmd of Rrtttlcbnro and Ii-iii Brand jo the I. tt--r be m!er,i jded c-ot.U.nrd a lipra, . e i su.lktiiy, it wit a tl ite
of LLndiC. b.SL i. t.
