y
TWENTY-FOURTH TEAR.
CARLSBAD, NEW MEXICO, FBI DAT, MARCH 10, Itll.
NUMBER
ÍS1
DDICiimUDO DIIDMCn IM P DAcn
UNFORTUNATES CAUGHT IN
OAS-KILLED DEATH TRAP
EXPIRE IN FEARFUL AGONY.
Frightful Aftermath af Attempt to
Admlniater Sanitary Bath to Of
fender and Suspects Detained In
El Paao Municipal Prison. Nk
ed and Screaming With Pain Vic-
tima of Gasoline, Explosion Are
Taken From Inferno by Heroic
fj - o vr ii . a. i
rirvmani ocvrrai jirir irrain in
Iloapitala.
Sixteen prisoners ara dead, and
about twenty more are seriously bum-
ad as rosult of an explosion of gas
olina in tha old collroom of the city jail
while the men were taking a hath tn
the gasoline and vinegar solution to
f-tiard airalnst tvnhus-csrrvinir lice
i
, yesterday afternoon at 3:1)0 o'clock,
Of the sixteen dead at 12:4ft o'clock
thia morning, four were unidentified. I
.. Five the seriously burned were expect-I
d to die before morning. The catas-
tropha la said to have been the worst
in the history of El Paso. A rigid
Investigation will be amde Into the
disaster by city and county officials.
Tha flash of flama was only of a td ironwork floor, hopelessly burning
second duration, but during that tha prisoner who had been locked in
brief instant, tha oil-soaked bodies of the celia.
a dosen prisoners wno had taken w. B. Atterbury, bookkeeper for tha
their baths, . and tha nude bodies of Yellow Paint Company, who was
thirteen others who were exposed to standing in front of the city hall when
ha flama which enveloped the jail, the explosion occurred, ran next door
Igniting tha bedding In tha cells and crying, "fire", and turned In tha alarm,
setting Are to tha two tubs of gaao- Then ha returned to assist in tha rel
lene which made a furnace to cook eue work.
tha partially burned prisoners in the. prisoners Run Wildly From Inferno.
- tipper tier of calls. I The prisoners, several of them with-
Firemen Were Ileroca. out clothing, ran wildly from the jail,
The cxolosion forced open tha door shrieking, waving their arms and leap-
of tha emergency hospital, burned ing In the air in their misery. One
tha woodwork at tha office in tha nuda prisoner climbed the bare wall
jail entrance, and nearly included about 20 feet high back of the Jail by
' Dr. O. B. Calnan, city physician; meana of a water drain pipe and was
Frank Scotten, day jailer, and Alex,
Gomales, police court clerk, in the
Hat of victims. The quick and heroic
work of Fire Chief Wray and hla fire-
man in extinguishing the blaxe, and
In rescuing the Imprisoned victims,
probably was responsible for keeping less funning of flames by excited spec
all prisoners from being cieflioted. tutors. Chemicals thrown over tha
Immedlatel yafter the blast, Scot- bodies by firemen assisted in putting
ten opened the cell doors and allowed out the fire on the burning bodies,
some of the frantic men to reach the One white man, about 40 years old.
outside. Two nude Mexicans rushed rushed out, the blood gushing from
into tha alley, screaming from the his burning nose and from his burned-
!, ..iiuj in. thai, humlni, ft it u U
and disappeared down South Stan-!
ton street. Both crossed the river
:st Into Mexico.
Climbed Water pipe,
One Mexican, with head and body
burned, cllmbea tne frail waterpipe compact.
on tha outside of the 25-foot high I "Mátame," whispered another, con
building in tha rear of tha Jail and vulsively moving his arm about in
, was rescued several minutes later by paroxysms of pain.
flremea from the hook and ladder Firemen Prove Heroes,
company. Other nude -prisoners phy.icians, policemen, civilians and
creaming, praying, and cursing, ran fl,emrn ruilhed to the scene of the
wildly into the alley, begging for impriaoned men, the firemen first pull
death to and their Buffering. ln)r the two burning tubs from the
Moved by tha sight of one of the building. Then the helpless and fatal
v ctim'j agony, a woman spectator . y burned men were carried from the
S leaded with one of the physician two compartments. Some were left
administer chloroform to tha In- jn th emergency hospital, others were
jurav man. uns iiiisuiirr, nvnuy
nude, was found sitting by the side
of tha street near tha Douglas school,
La,, half a mile from tha scene of tha
catastrophe. About six prisoners
escaped.
Wtara Sairaa Man. t.lvM.
The heroic work of Miss Carmola
Alonsa, trained nurse, and Jack La
fiin, policeman, probably saved tha
ives of mist of the less seriously in-
lured. Lpin aispaicnea several men or the juil when the report or the ex
for olive oil upon reaching tha scene 1 plosion was heard, r.nd was one of the
of the accident, and Misa Alonzo ap-1 first to reach the scene. Her quick
plied tha oil to tha seard flesh a , wit in knowing what to do may have
quickly aa tha burned men were been the meana of saving several of
brought Into tha emergency hospital. 1 the prisoners, as she dispatched sev
Dr. G. B. Calnan directed the work I eral men to the nearest store to get
of rescue and flrat aid, assisted by 1 some olive oil, sent others for sheets
Dr. H. E. Stephenson and several and administered to tha needs of some
other physicians. of tho burning prisoners until the
The explosion was caused by II. M. sheets and oil arrived. Enrique Agu
Cross, a drug fiend whose pleading rre, who conducts a printing office on
for a match resulted in obtaining it, South Oregon street, assisted in ad
aither from another prisoner.or from ministering first aid to the prisoners,
finding it on the floor. All day long I)r. Calnan, whose injuries consist
he had been asking for a match, ie- ed of singed eyebrows and eyelashes,
pita ihe police officials' persistent directed the rescue work. Injections
warning that no matches be lighted
while the batha were being admin-
isle red. Cross wat ona of tha first
to die.
Ask to be Killed.
A many of the prisoners were vatr-
rants who had been kept in closa
confinement to break them of tha
drug habit, their agonized cries for
"lust one shot of dope." mingled with
the emotional call for "Mother", at
the County and Providence hospitals
and .tha Hotel Dleu, where 87 of tha
Injured man were taken after tha
accident.
Several Mexicans
cans. In their dying
agony, erted repeatedly, -ror u os.
mátame!" (tor the lova or Uod, Kill
ma.) Othera reiterated tha namea or
their loved ones and a few curaed
hoarsely aa they writhed In pain. It
was necessary to give several of tha
patient aa much a fifteen graina of
morphine enough to kill the av
erage person before . they ceased
their cries.
Dr,
Dewey
Bagl
tie,
lna
viaoUna. vinegar and kerosene, aa a
H. M. Croaa Struck Match. tion of morphine which ha rninht hav acted, and there will la no hitch, couple of year and live In the east. .,ra i r. nvi,.,.ir ... ,i ,w .,. . rB 1 .? " r, 1 " .... .. ' .
, O. B. Calnan, city physician; secreted in his clothing. As the pris- from experience gained by Compuny , She came her Thursday. Tha other -.a.,..! ,,,dv thev asked tho club la-1 ' L . . ' 1 1 ... t,.r
Johnson, a negro trustyj H. r . oner along tha eastern tier of ceils "U" officers and men In attending rirle I two are Monte, tha only .on, and tha dicg t0 Btt ñ pettion signed by the , i". i..Ln .,.l,l,. 1 had nenct rated
ey and Marry Moma, wniia trua-; were chiefly drug fiends on half ra- competitions, both state and national, . naby gin. i neima. wr. uoweu was housewives that they would get their ; i, ii,.n
war engaged in ma tasa or nam- tlons and wara unfit for labor on tha at Laa Vegas, Denting, Lamp Perry, ona or tna leading men or Artesia, or(jurl n by that timo, and tha com- . .
tha nrlaonera la th solution of chain arantr. moat of tha worst burned Ohio, and Jacksonville. Flu., avarv fea. ' running a grocery atora and a bakery m.. ,i ,i., t..iu .in, .m n .u mis ,k. ...
precaution against typhus-tarrying About twenty prisoners on tha chain
ilea. i gang, who were not due to arrive
Twelve of th prisoners bad bean at tha jail for another hour, ascap
tripped and their clothing wa being 4.
washed In th aolutlon. Then II. M. , Bleehoae Alda In Reseña.
Croa, a young man who had bean ar- John E. Bischoas, a contractor In
rested on a charca of ragrancy. lit-1 tha First National Bank building,
nored orders from officer and lighted wat driving by tha jail In hla automo
a match in ona of tha rear celia in bile whan tha explosion occurred. Ha
tha north and of tha lower tier. aided in tha rescua work, and took
There was a muffled report and two carloads of tha burned men to tha
flash of light, which enveloped the county hospital.
entire eastern half of the fall and 1 "Ai I drove alón almost aa fart
the office of the jailer outside the
entrance In tha rear of tha jail. Air- ;
screams from tha prisoners,
omzea
i ii . '
Krllr -ni-aii attirl ormni rama from
the Jail. Dr. Calnan, Ales Gonzales. . "One young man, who did not look
clerk of the corporation court, and to be 80 years old, sat near me on the
Frank Scotton, dny jailor, reached the way to the hospital, persistently ask
door in time to esrana the volume of inir me to hurry. He was badly burn-
flame. ThenScotten brayed the smoke
mi heat, to reach the upper tier or
cells whore most of tha Injured men
had hn untranned. and tha frantic
horda of burning men madly rushed
down the stairs.
Flamea Spread Upward. j
The lower corridor door was also
opened to allow a few of those who
had been bathed in the oil to reach I
the outside. The two tubs of burning i
liquid were sending their flames to the i
uDDer tier of cells, through the lattic
rescued by firemen by means or a lad
der,
Another ran down tha alley and i
was found half an hour later near the 1
Douglas school. Several who were :
running aimlessly about tne alley were
made more miserable by the thought
. u
"Por Dins, mátame" (For the love
of God, kill me), cried several Mexi-1
jean who had staggered to the alley I
only to fall exhausted to the pavement
their crisp skin falling away with the I
i taken to the County hospital, I'luvi
denle hospital or Hotel Dieu in auto
mobiles, ambulances and o .er con
veyances. One of the heroines of the explosion
was Miss Cannula Alcnzo, a nurse of
I the Rolaton hospital, who was waiting
In the courtroom for the trial or a
' reckless driving case in which she was
tho complaining witness. She rushed
own the jail staira into the interior
of morphine were given to the injured
men to relieve their agony. Aj fast.
as the men could be wrapped in sheets i
snd covered with the oil they wero
'rushed to a hospital. I
Negro First to Die. -
; The first prisoner to die was a negro j
youth, who had been nearest one of the
burning tubs after taking his bath. Ho ,
died as he was boinu- assisted to Ine I
emergency hospital aeveral feet from
the jail entrance.
of h .i.iv or mora nrln.neri who
were in the jail about six made their
escape, and about ten, chiefly trusties,
I who were either assisting In the dlsin.
fecUnt baths or were In the woman's
compartment, were uninjured.
( According to jail attendants.
tha
accident waa caused by the striking
or a match by n. m. Cross, a drug
fiend, who occupied one of tha cells
In the north end of the jail. It is
supposed ha either lighted the match
to amok cigarette or to heat a
men were in thia section of tha fail.
spoonful of water to make an Iniec- imr. etc.. fn rthi match have been tier- , tranuell, wno has been married l!i .,.u n,. i,i .lii,,.. i i. iiio . ,, 1 ,, ,
aa poaiiihle, the men would cry out:
" "f or God's sake, drive Taut; I don t
want to die,' and 'Drive fasterj I can't
liVaV
ed about the body and head.
"the most glaring inun mm is io no
found In the accident Is with the police
for not having a big supply of olive
"il In the emervency hospital, and with
the Are department for not having ,
plenty of blankets for just such emer-
gencies," Mr. Ilischost, said. "It was
several minutes before something
could be thrown alut a few of (he
men. I started to throw my coat ar-
ound one pr the burning men, nut ,
realized it would not be sufficient to
do him any good." I proposal to settle the I.usitania case.
Washington, March 8. Senator
BROKEN CAR. 'Stone, of Missouri, chairman of tha
George Williams and family, while dforeign rlationa committee, declar
out riding Sunday went as far as Ale- ed In tha senate today, after a con
Millian dam and after a picnic lunch fere nee with President Wilson"that so
Mr. Wiliiama drove over a couple of far from the president desiring to in
mile tu the east where he has a vulva this country in this disastrous
laf.lt Drtai fiBatiira) A f f r ipnintr a
far as he liked, they decided to turn
and ccme home. In making the turn
tha wheel dropped into a cattle trail
and fell off. They were turning slow
ly and hardly felt the jolt. The one
unpleasant feature of it was, they had
to walk about five miles to Oriental
Tha children made the trip alright and
on reaching Oriental they phoned in
for a car which soon cama out and
brought them home. Mr. Williams
took the rnlves out yesterday and is
repairing the car at the samo time.
it seemed to be an old brean and wnno
no one was hurt, it was almost too
windy to enjoy the walk.
FOR TIIE PARTICULAR SMOKER
"LA LUCBANA"
A GENUINE IMPORTED MANILA CIGAR
Something Different But Just Right
Sold only at the
EDDY DRUG STORE
PENSLAIt
RIFLE COMPETITION HERE
NINETEENTH OF MARCH.
Two Roawell Teams Will Shoot Hera
Against Carlsbad Trama Sunday,
March Nineteenth.
Arrangements have been perfected
for a return match with the two riHe
teams from Roswell on March lth,
on tha Company "Ii" rile range. The
same Carlsbad team that won from
Roswell with high score a few weeks
ago will compete agninst the Roswell-
ites, and also a new team organized
by Captain Dean from Company "U", , "y y rushed off with tho load
especially for this match. 1 towurd the plains.
The' two Carlsbad teams will pro , ,, ... ,.,. .
out next Sunday for tho lust pra-- DEATH Or LP. S. HOW ELL.
tice before tho big match, and will
shoot the course over uno time in this I Ed. S. Howell was found dead In bed
practice. On lust Sundny the two l his home in Artesln Sunday morn
teams shot over tho course one time, "g caused from a fall sustained the
using one target only, in less than six
hours, and for the big mutch, the four
teams will use two targets, and it is
expected to shoot the entire match;
with the four teams using tha two
targets In live or six hours time.
The line-up of the two teams will be
as follows, subject to change, how -
' ever
First feam: West. Craig, Hun -
sick, Fredrick and Wilkinson. Second In one place and about a half a pint
team: Richey, Dean, Haumbach, Col- of blood was found on tha brain. A
lina and Hammond. lonr distance message wis put In for
The public generally are cordially Carlsbad, a their only on, Monte,
Invited to attend the match, for at ) wa here with hi friend, Ervln lllg
least a part of tha day. Shooting will gin, at tha Palace hotel. Monta left
begin promptly at eight o'clock In tha ' at once for hla home, going with Mra.
morning, and last until one or two in Joe Jarobson in their car. Mr. Howell
the afternoon. Every detail for th
management, running targets, scor
tura of tha shooting gar.1 ha been
learned and tha Koswellite will pro. -bably
learn something about running Hank Harrison and son, Earnest,
a "shouting match", even though tha wara her yesterday from their ranch
visitor may show tha Carlsbad boy on Black river.
j aoma real marksmanship thla tima.
Newa received privately from tha
I Institute team lait week Indicate
that they ara coming down determined
to win, and with nothing lea than
"bulUeyei" In each bullet
Tod Barber vislUd In Carlsbad
Wednesday and Thursday from hia
home In Las Crucea. Tod atill owna
hia home here and will probably oc
cupy it again soma day. Ha la atill
projecting for a ranch and may And
one toauit some where between here
and El Paso.
M'LEMORE RESOLUTION
TABLED BY THE HOUSE.
Washington, March 8. With roñ
ar romm tmlinir anunraalv hehirrl him.
proaident Wilson was props red toduy
to an hiH iriih ih iilmin i inr ,
gotiations with the Central powers. I
After an all-ilny contest, the houso
' ....
last bight answered the president's
demand for an expression of con-
giessional sentiment on the armei
ship issue. Ily a vote of 271 to 1 1-,
the house tallied tlio Mcl.emorc reto
lution to wiirn Americans olf armed
ships.
This action, together with that in
the senate in killing a similar resolu
tion, has freed the president from
the lionds of embarrassment forced
upon him by thu dissensions in con
gress. The president s next step probably
w bo to answer Germany a lral
fuMn... m. v ainrama, wiah la Irt
avoid that calamity."
OTIS MINSTREL TO LOVING.
The Minstrel was solicited by the
church ladies of I-oving to play there
last Saturday night, which they did
to a good crowd. They realised about
$.10 and many said it was better than
at Otis, nossibly other numburs were
added, for what they had at Otis
could not have been better. After the
Minstrel closed all that assisted with
the entertainment were inviten to .urs
T. t). Wynian'a home and beautifully :
entertuined with music, games and I
Mesdames Hughes, Rose and Wyman
' served sandwiches, pickles, cake, hot
coffee and cocoa.
BIG AUTO TRUCK.
The big auto truck with Frank
Misei and Gray Coggin aboard, loaded
out for Lovington yesterday. This
truck is ho long it hurts the eye to
I uc s Its length and with tho ulg
, lU'ine land the many othor items of
freight it was loaded with, some one
, suggested that it looked citihVd whilu
, another suggested it looked scarry
evening bciore, ny lulling over a truck
i" the ware room, striking his head,
Mr. Howell grew wor3 in the night
and a physician was called. He then
seemed to get rulicf und dropped olf
to sleep. When Mrs. Howell woke
In the morning she found her husband
! was dead. On looking into tha causa
: of hia death tha skull was raised
leaves a wife and three children, one
ui wnicn is a married uaugnier, rars.
in connection.
VILLA KIM:
í , i
COMPANY "B" INSPECTION.
Annual Federal Inspection Nest Wed
nesday. Dance for Militia Boya
Afterward.
Everv effort Is being made by Com
pany "B" officers and men to make
! seventh annunl inspection of tiie
Company the best yet, and to do this
wnl require an almost perfect record,
as the insnertion a year airo scored
very near the top notch.
Last year fifty-four men were pre-
" om. " "
I . I i . I a 1 .. P. á it
hoped to have at least fifty-five pres.
ent this time. The equipment will be
In snn'e-pie order, nnd the rifles ab
solutely beyond reproach; the latter
I'-ing personally looked after by Lieut
West, who knows a rifle and how to
use it; and the equipment now being
in churire or the new quartermaster
sergeant, n. li. Klchey, who has had
two year's experience as Q. M. Ser
l'cnnt in the Guard in another state.
The erlistment of the Company Is just
nbout up to standard, and the recent
drills have showed tho men to be up
to form.
With tho new Armory now going
up, provided for by the State, the
State authorities are expecting much
of Company "Ii", and this Company
has never failed to "deliver the goods '
and will maintain its previous good
record on this occasion without a
doubt.
Every indication leads to the belief
that the present Congress will provide
for federalizing the National Guard,
and putting the militiamen on pay dir
ect from the National government.
This has been advocated by the
Guardsmen for years past, and tho
sentiment here is without doubt very
much infavor of the pay bill, which
will give the lowest ranking member
of the Guard pay at the rate of ubnut
one H- lliir for each drill attended.
With the new Armory, with its
msnv featuies devoted exclusively to
tha members of the duard, anil t'ie
Py bill in effect, there is little doubt
but that a company one hundred
strong, can lie m?iini:iincu note. :i'"i
.nn n ilnirt tme put into excel
lent shape for service, if needed.
COMPANY "II" WINS FIRST
PRIZES FOR M ARKSM NSII1P
For the second tmie in the past two
years. Company "It" has raptured first
prizes for marksmanship; the first
lime for indoor shooting, und this
timo for marksmanship of the com
pany as a whole on the range, season
of 1015.
This time the Company is awarded
first prize of $15 in rash, and ('apt.
Dean a gold medal, as Captain of the
highest shooting company in the stute.
Tha medal Is simple in design, with a
miniature of the great seal of the
Slate of New Mexico in the center of
a larger gold medallion, this suspend- i
oil from a plain gold bar, the wordini; 1
on front being "First Prize, for com- I
puny muí ksniansliiir' and on reverse ,
''fnmnunv B. 1015, Captain W. W.
I lean'1.
t'rnddoi'k Rulo was awarded (list
prize of aVi.OO in cash as highest .
shooting enlisted man in the state.
With half a doen crack shots Ju.-t
now joining thu Company, there is ,
little, doubt but that season of l'.Mii ,
will see Company "It" bring in all .
the State trophies for the year tu '
grace the new Armory. Heretofore
theCompany not having suitublo ouur- ,
ters, the trophies have not been con- ,
tested for, but they expect to go after
everything In sight this season.
WOMAN'S CLUB.
On account of Tuesday being the :
day for election of o Ulcers tho ladies '
were kept very busy from three In
the afternoon until live. Thisserre
tary lieing absent, Mrs. Leon Hurhnni
filled tho chair. Mesdames Day nnd
MrCollum wero appointed tellers. A
number of names placed before tho
club for the president's chair, laoug
with Mrs. Snow, were withdrawn as
the ladles positively refused to nc
rept the honor.
I'he following officers wero clcel.-d: i
Mrs. Clnrence Hell, president.
Mrs. J. F. Kurc-v, flrt vice presl
dent.
Mrs. F. G. Snow, second vico presl- '
dent.
Mrs. Will Kocher, recording secre
tary. Mrs. T. I. Duy, corresponding sec
retary. .Miss Westawny, treasurer.
Mrs, Wm. II. Mullane, press re
porter. A committee consisting of Mesdam
es Hemenway, Durham, and Miss
Westaway, were appointed to docldo
on the question of by-laws.
Tha two quilts the ladies were mak
ing for the room at the Eddy county
hospital were reported finished and
the different ladies donated sheet i,
iprCadgi blankets, pillowcases, etc.
Th .a, i,i ., n,,..v,unla
one exception, willingly signed th
petition.
Tha bill board that Col. A. J. Mus
ty donated for tha benefit of tha club
brought them tha neat litt'a sum of
WITH FROM 800 TO 1.000 MEN.THK
BANDIT LEADER SWtKIPSt
DOWN UPON THE I.ITTLEi
BORDER TOWN AND LEAVES;
A TRAIL OF DEATH AND DES.
OLATION BEHIND HIM. s
Eight Other Americans are Wounded
by the Búllela of Murderous Out
laa, Whose list tie Cry la "Deaths
lo the Gringoes." Detachment
of Thirteenth Cavalry Finally'
Succeeds in Driving Mexican Out
ln Arrima Line and Some Guer
illns Are Found Iead. ,
Yesterday's Roswell Evening News.
t olumhu, N. M.. March 9 A band
of .Mexican bandits, numbering from
Mill to l.i'iiu, suH)edly under the per
sonal command of francisco Villa,
raided United Slatea territory early,
liMlay. I hey II, u ked tolumhus, kill-
ed Americans milinns who exposed
themselves, and set lire to several
buildings. For nearly two hour
lighting rontinued in Ihe sírcete.
Colonel II. J. Movum brought the
thirteenth cavalry into action and
shortly after 6 o'clock drove the raid
era bark serias the border.
Eight civilians and seven United
Slatea troopera were Ihe known dead
early in Ihe day.
Information that Francisco Villa
and his chief lieutenant, Pablo Lopez,
were in personal command of the raid, -was
given Colonel Slocum by a Mexi
can rancher, captured by the bandita
last Sunday, and who escaped during
tho fighting. This Mexican told of
the hanging of American ranchers,
McKinney, Corbctt and O'Ncil. Ha
added that a fourth American, whose
name he did not know, had been hang
ed at the same time. Tha Mexican
said Villa attacked with from H0O to
1,000 men and a machine gun platoon.
"Traveling north, Villa and bis band
crossed the boundary west of Colum
bus." said the Mexican, "und entered
the town by a ditch running past tho
cavalry camp.. Villa was in personal
charge, and ileclaied he whs going to)
kill eveiy American becau-e thcAiner
iiiin eiiwiiiincnt did nut tieuul hint
right. "
I lie Mexican, who prayed that his
name be not used, continued a report
previously iriven out by Curranza of
liciaU that before leaving the Santa
Ana district, in western Chihuahua,
Villa hud fieely stated that ho intend
ed to lorce intervention by the United
States by ruiding American territory
and killing everybody in sight.
Lieutenant Clyde Ely, with twenty
men of the Now Mexican national
guard, arrived from Iteming today
and joined the federal troops.
Thu attack began early in tha morn
ing, after Villa had entered tha town
from the we t, unknown to anyone.
He first attacked tho camp of tho
thirteenth cavalry, but it suffered lit
tle. Several buildings were fired and
snipers po-ted at several places in
the town.
Inhabitants weie aroused by tha
sound ol li;ing ill the streets, anil,
rushini; outside, were met by fusil
lades from thu Mcxuiin invaders.
Shrieking battle yells rung out as tha
Mexieun e ni i led through thu streeta
llriuir ul everyone, In sight. Villa i
said to have been seen by several
1 Americans urging hU men on. Tha
telephn-ie wire east to F.I I 'a so was
' cut to pi event uppeals for reinforce
1 mi nts. Lieutenant Custeman, otllcer
I of the day at the Ct.iunihus garrison,
' summoned the United States soldiers,
and then the lighting became gun
' erul Houses throughout the town
! Were riddled with bullets,
j Snipers fired ul the fleeing Anierl-
cans us they sought piucos of shelter,
I while tha torch siiuad hurried from
I building to building. Some of tho
bandits sought to entire the Ameri
cans fro nilheir homes by calling to
them in English. J. S. I lean was
cuughl in this ay. Pean emerged
fiom his doorway and was met with
"viva Villa." "1 don't know who he
is, but I have some of him left he it)
scattered in the street," pointing to
the In dies of -everal dead Mexicans.
Hut Villa was not among them. Ho
appiucinly li.id left when Colonel Sin.
corn's tronpeis licúan liiint' al tha
sniper.
t olonel Sloi'um's revolver was :i;i l
from his liiiiid in the tiirhting.
Major Flunk Tompkins, with two
' lumps of the thirteenth cavalry, .
suhl to have cros sed the border 1:1
pin .nil of the retreuting Mexican ,
Mhi tied admit t o'clock.
, I ' 1 1 1 1 1 o Lope., second in command to
Villa, was killed.
j Twenty-four bodies of Mexican ruiil
I ers hud been gulheied anil hume I
, before noon, and nllicials reportfl
scores more were in the brush.
Mujor l.indsley, stalioned at Gibson
ranch, sent three troops of cavali
across tho border to reinforce Major
Tompkins, who went in pursuit of the
raldeu.
Mayor Hoover sent 4 telegram t'
Washington asking what tho govern
ment was going to do.
Culumbus, N. M , March !. Amerl-
pansa of a hose, water, and a man to
look after tha ground and water waa
fJtl.50.
Tha Woman's club I aver ready to
alng th praise of th helping hand.
