affcooli Mew
PART 1
OFFICIAL PAPER OF NAVAJO COUNTY
Vol. 7. No. 45.
HOLBROOK, NAVAJO COUNTY, ARIZONA, FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1916.
G. M. BRAXTON, Proprietor.
1C
COURT DOCKET CLEARED
Jury Session of Superior Court
Closed Tuesday Evening. A
Number of Cases Reached
a Verdict.
Tne jury term of the superior
court of Navajo countv closed
Tuesday evening after being- in
session since Feb. 28. The
docket was cleared of all cases in
which a jury was asked for, both
in civil and criminal suits.
The last case tried was that
of the state against Wm. Charles
of Winslow, charg-ed with in
troducing intoxicating liquor in
to the state. The prosecution
was represented by County At
torney Jordan, the defendant by
Attorneys E. P. Conwell of Wins
low and J. E. Jones of Flagstaff.
The trial was by jury. The de
fendant's attorneys proved to
the satisfaction of the jury that
the liquor was brought into the
state for the personal use of
Charles and a verdict of acquittal
was rendered.
Tuesday morning Judge Sapp
sentenced Ray Merrill, who had
previously pleaded guilty to
burglarizing a store in Snowflake,
to servé two years in the state
penitentiary, and suspended the
sentence.
Mrs. Mattie Peters, who had
been convicted of aggravated
battery by a jury several days
before and sentenced by Judge;
Sapp to a vear in she penitent
iary and fined $200.00, paid the
fine Tuesday. Her sentence in
prison was suspended. She re
turned to her home in Winslow
Wednesday evening.
A. Lopez. C. Carrillo and S.
Romero pleaded guilty to battery
and were given jail sentences by
Judge bapp. these cases grew
out of a drunken brawl on the
south side of the river a few
weeks ago.
The case of Peter Rouse versus
F. T. La Prade tried by a jury
resulted in a verdict for the de
fendant. Attorney Tnorwald
Larson represented the plaintiff,
and Attorney X. N. Steeves the
defendant.
The trial of the case of Chas.
Daze versus Joe Hunter resulted
in a verdict for the plaintiff. At
torney C. H. Jordan represented
the plaintiff and Attorney X. N.
Steeves the defendant.
The sentence of Chas. Quayle,
convicted last week of rape, was
not pronounced by the court
Thursday as had been arranged.
By agreement between Judge
Ellis and the attorneys in the
case, the date for imposing sen
tence has been postponed to
March 18. It is understood that
Quayle will appeal to the su
preme court and will give bond.
Ladies' Tailoring
The undersigned is the local
representative of the Ideal Ladies
Tailoring Company of Chicago.
The line of spring and summer
samples is now here and contains
all of the late novelties. An in
spection by all ladies interested
is cordially invited.
Miss Jo McCIanahan,
Central Hotel.
Teachers' Examination
An examination for second
grade teachers' certificates was
held Monday and Tuesday by
Superintendent Peterson in his
office in the court house. Four
young ladies from Winslow took
the examination. They were
Misses Leorena Shipley, Margue
rite Day, Marguerite Drumm and
Gladys Fouts.
Save money by buying
your furniture now at Wetzler's.
Qualifications for Voters
Below is printed a communica
tion sent to the Holbrook school
board by Attorney C. H. Jordan.
(The school board asked Mr.
Jordan for an opinion as to the
qualifications necessary to vote
at the election which will be held
tomorrow, to determine the loca
tion of the new school building
Mr. Jordan's letter follows:
Gentlemen:
As regarding persons who are
entitled to vote in the election to
be held in vour district in the
near future. I beg to submit the
following, to-wit:
Every person, male or female,
of the age of twenty-one years
or over, who is a citizen of the
United States, and who is and
has been a resident of the State
of Arizona for one year, and of
the school district for thirty days
immediately preceding the dav
of election, and who is the par
ent or guardian of a minor child
residing in the district, or who
has paid a state or county tax,
exclusive of poll, road, or school
tax, during the preceding year,
shall be entitled to vote at any
school district election. Everv
woman offering to vote at such
election, who is otherwise quali
fied, and whose husband or fath
er is a citizen of the United
States, shaJl be treated as a citi
zen for the purpose of voting at
such election.
Every woman whose husband
is a tax-payer on community pro
perty, and who is otherwise
qualified to vote in school elec
tions, shall be considered a quali
fied elector for the purpose of
voting at such elections.
Most every resident of the
district is entirely lamihar with
the requirements for voting in
school elections, except there
may be some dispute or misun
derstanding as regards voters
possessing the qualifications not
ed in the paragraph immediately
preceding this one. The autho
rity for this opinion, and for the
statements contained in above
mentioned paragraph, will be
found in Section 2730, Civil Code.
1913.
Respectfully submitted,
C. H. Jordan.
County Attorney.
Field Notes from the Office of the
County Engineer
Contracts for a large amount
of road work will be awarded
within the next week. These
cover sections in all parts of the
county.
Flood waters from the melting
snows in the mountains still con
tinue to delay necessary bridge
and road work in the southern
part. Temporary road conditions
in other parts are excellent.
With the facilities of the new
road equipment ordered purchas
ed at the March meeting of the
board of supervisors the engi
neer is anticipating improve
ments in road construction which
could never before be realized.
The ownership of a latest im
proved "45"-All-Caterpillar-
Tractor and a double blade heavy
road machine with road roller
attached, places Navajo County
in the front rank with the coun
ties of the State who have here
tofore been the leaders in econo
mical road work.
The State concrete bridge
across the Little Colorado River
five miles east of Holbrook will
be ready to carry travel during
the first part of April. This is
the best, probably the longest
Lutin arch in the State, and,
like all work done by the state
forces, although expensive, is of
a permanence and solidity out
little adopted in county work and
is good for all time to come.
If your road trouble matters
are adressed directly to this office
they will receive prompt atten
tion. Charles E. Perkins,
County Engineer.
Supervisors in Session
The regular monthly meeting
of the board of supervisors was
held last Monday in the board
room in Holbrook. Outside of
the routine business considerable
business of importance was trans
acted, a night session being
necessary to finish it.
The county engineer was
authorized to purchase road
machinery from the companies
that had submitted lowest bids
in response to the published in
vitation for bids. The details of
these purchases are given in
another column under the head
ing of notes from the county
engineer's office.
The clerk of the board was
authorized to advertise for sale
the $63, C00 worth of bonds re
cently voted for bridge purposes.
This advertisement appears in
another column of this paper.
J. J. Shumway was granted
a franchise to erect and operate
an electric light and power plant
for supplying ght and power to
the towns of Snowflake, Taylor
and Shumway.
Distinction Without A Difference
In the issue of The News of
February 25, under the head of
"Business in Justice Court", the
statement was made that "Sam
Smith plead guilty to the chargt
of petty larcency and was sen
tenced to 15 days in jail, the
complaining witness being Wm.
Wooster. Judge Boyer suspend
ed the sentence."
Mr. Smith asks that the state
ment that he plead guilty be cor
rected. The record of the court
shows that he did not plead guil
ty; he was -adjudged guilty by
the court upon evidence submitt
ed. Otherwise the published ac
count of the proceeding is cor
rect. Dodge Cars Used By Police
The police department of
Rochester. N. Y., has put the
Dodge Brothers motor cars in
service for general use in the
department. The choice of cars
was made after exhaustive tests
extending over several weeks in
which careful records were kept
of the maintenance costs and al
so of the general performance
of the cars. Others are to be
added to the fleet.
The cars are in use at the
various poliee stations 24 hours
each day. each car has three
drivers, who work in eight hour
shifts. They are used by the
detectives in answering hurry
calls, racing to fires, etc.
Rank Foolishness.
You occasionally see it stated
that colds do not result from cold
weather. That is rank foolish
ness. Were it true colds would
be as prevalent in midsummer as
in midwinter. The microbe that
causes colds flourishes in damp,
cold weather. To get rid of a
cold take Chamberlain's Cough
Remedy. It is effectual and it is
highly recommended by peoele
who have used it for many years
as occasion required, and know
its real value. Obtainable every
where. Big Land Selections
The Arizona Republican states
that the largest selection of land
ever made by the state land de
partment in cne day was filed on
Tuesday. The selections com
prise in all 100,753.74 acres, and
is mostly in the Altar valley, in
Pima county. The filing fees
alone amounted to $636.
The land is bounded by the
newly set aside Papago reserva
tion on the east. It will be rent
ed for a period of five years, at
the rate of three cents per acre
per annum. After that time has
passed, the land will be sold and
the money applied to the follow
ing grants: University, legisla
tive, executive, judicial, peniten
tiary, insane asylum, asylum for
i deaf and dumb, normal schools.
charitable, penal and reform in
stitutions, agricultural and me
chanical schools, mining school
and military institutes.
The money to be derived from
the sale of 2.880 acres will go to
Cochise, Maricopa and Graham
counties to be applied on the
payment of bonds.
Julius Wetzler has a force
of men at work laying ce
ment walks in the west part
of town. Mr. Wetzler is
having walks laid in front of
some of his own property,
and is contracting for work
from others. Walks have
been laid for L. Cadwell, J.
W. Richards and Cyrus Mc
Cleve. J. S. Hulet and Geo.
W. Hennessey have also
made contracts for walks.
Good work is being done and
the price is very reasonable.
Many other property owners
will probably take advant
age of the opportunity to
have walks put in while Mr.
Wetzler's outfit is on the job.
R. E. Putney arrived in
Holbrook last Saturday even-!
Ín2f from his home in Albu-
n .
qUerqUC Mr. Putney OWnS
fl-io T "R Pnnan Or, nrVinlo
UIlC Ji. . rUUlC.V VjU. WilUlC-
sale grocery establishment,
and is president of the Hol
brook Mercantile Co., retail
dealers in general merchand
ise, rle expressd himseli as
being well satisfied with the
busineas being done by his
local houses, and he predicts
a prosperous year for both
the wholesale and retail esta
blishments. Monday Mr.
Putney left with W. E.
Chamberlain,
the wholesale
trip through
territory.
Judge and
manager of
house, for a
the southern
Mrs. Sidney
Sapp will leave Holbrook to
morrow evening for Tucson
to attend the meeting of the
Masonic grand lodge, which
will be held in that city next
week. The Eastern Star al
so meets there during the
week, and Mrs. Sapp will re
present the Winslow lodge
of that order. L. C. Henn
ing, master of the local lodge
of Masons, will leave here
Sunday to attend the grand
lodge meeting.
The regular monthly meet
ing of the local lodge of
Masons will be held tomor
row night. At this meeting
bids upon the construction of
the new temple in Holbrook
will be considered.
Albert Warren, the tailor,
has been confined to his home
this week by an attack of
measles.
See the latest designs in
ladies' hats at Wetzler's.
No fancy prices.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENCE
Six delegates to represent Arizona at the national democratic convention
in St. Louis next June, were chosen by the state central committee, which
met in Phosnlx last Saturday, and instructed to vote as a unit for Woodrow
Wilson. Resolutions endorsing the national administration, pledging the
support of the delegates to Wilson and pronouncing Thomas P. Marshal: the
choice of the party in Arizona for vice-president, were adopted unanimously.
After a fight the resolutions committee was instructed to deal with only
national af'airs and not to mention the situation within the state.
Fred T. Coltsr, of Apache county, was made national committeeman.
He defeated Reese M. Ling, who has been national committeeman for the
last four years, by a vote of 39 to 28.
The state was divided into six districts. The state committeemen
from each district selected a delegate and an alternate, who were later ap
proved by the entire committee. Following is the complete :ist of delegates
ana alternates: Apacne. Navajo, Coconino: George Babbitt, Flagstaff: R.
C. Cressweli, Winslow, alternate. Maricopa, Pinal: M. J. Dougherty, Mesa;
Tom Wills, Florence, alternate. Mohave. Yavapai: J. J. Hawkins, Prescott;
I. M. George. Kingman, alternate. Cochise: J. S. Doug'as, Douglas; Mrs.
H. E. Fletcher, Hereford, alternate. Pima, Santa Cruz. Yuma: George
Michelsen. Yuma; H. W. Purdy. Nogales, alternate. Greenlee, Graham,
Gila: F. B. Lane Clifton; John F. Weber. Safford, alternate.
Fifteen Arizona members of the National Equal Suffrage Union appeared
before the committee and secured the adoption of a resolution endorsing the
Susan B. Anthony constitutional amendment for the total enfranchisement
of women.
Instructions to initiate a number of laws to make Arizona even "dryer"
'hn it is were given the executive committee of the Arizona Temperance
federation at the annual meeting of that organization, held in Phoenix. The
luestlon of whether a constitutional amendment prohibiting the persona'
use of liouor should be initfated was left with the committee. I was quite
evident that the delegates were widely divided on the advisability of attempt
ing to secure the adontion of such a rigid amendment.
The laws the committee was directed to initiate are for the following
purposes:
Prohibiting the intra-state shipment of intoxicants.
Reouiring the destruction of liquor seized bv peace officers.
Making possession of a government liquor license prima facie evidence
of law violation.
Declaring any place where liquor is sold or given away a pub'ic nuisance
and closlne It for one year.
Prohibiting liquor advertising in newspapers and moving picture shows
or by any other medium.
Memorials were adooted asking congress to amend the Webb-Kenyon
act so as to make it illegal to ship liouor into any dry territory, and to nasa
nending bills making the District of Columbia and Hawaiian islands prohibi
tion territory.
Resolutions were adopted praising Arizona offlcprs for their efforts to
enforce prohibition, censurin federal officers for failure to prosecute per
sons who have sold 'lquor without government licenses, and demanding that
the next legislature enact any laws that may be necessary to make prohibi
tion effective.
The followine officers were elected for the ensuing year: President,
Thomas K. Marshall. Tucson: vice-president, B. W. Getsinger, Phoenix;
treasurer, J. O. Sexson. Phoenix: ten eral secretary, C. J. Banks, Phoenix;
field secretary Grady Gammage. Tucson.
The executive committee: Dr. John Wix Thomas. J. W. Martin. Dr.
W. W. Wilkinson. Miss Marion Camobell. Rev. Ray C. Harker. L. W. Cog
gins, D. F. Jantzen. E. D. Raley. Harry Blair, Dr. H. A. Hughes, Mrs.
Imogene LaCbance. Phoenix: J. W. LfiSueur. M"sa- Peter T. Robertson.
Yuma: B. Brttton Oottsbereer Miami- Dav'd K. TJdall. St. Johns: Rudolph r
"Ctich'er, Glendale: Mose Drachman, Tucson.
On the same day that the Temperance, federation met, attorneys for all
railroads doing business In Arizona gathered 'n Phoenix to discuss the "per-,
sonal use" decision of the supreme court. The representatives nf the three
railroad systems that carv interstate fre'eht into Arizona decided that Honor
shipments for points w'thin this state would not be accepted. They agreed
that such transportation would be legal but In each case the transporting
; road mlsrht have to prove that the consienee intended to use the liquor for
; no Illegal purpose. Even If the consienee s'ened an affidavit that he did
not intend to transgress the law, the ra-'lroad would not be protected In case
ne utilized the 'touor for other than persona1 use.
rn, TTTllo TT'ni.n P.r..ici, nnmnon.r lo elll rofncin tn Vii-Tir Hntmr In
1 11' , , i . 1 : o i ui i-i i ..i ui in.; ..i;,,) i; u I
Full line of fresh vege
tables due Saturday at Wet
zler's. A. Blum, of the A. & B.
Schuster Co. , returned Tues
day from a business trip to
Springerville.
This county was well re
presented at the stockmen's
convention in Albuquerque
this week. Geo. W. Hen
nessey, Frank Wallace, Em
mett Wallace, James Dono
hoe and Judge D. J. Thomas
were among those present.
Judge Thomas and Mr. Hen
nessey returned home Thurs
day morning. The others
are not expected until to
morrow. Judge Thomas in
forms The News that the
convention was largely at
tended and that he met many
of his old friends from Texas.
El Paso was chosen as the
place for next year's convention.
Arizona but has not announced what its permanent attitude will be. It is
expected, however, that the express company will follow the lead of the
railroads.
Members of the "initiation association," a new organization composed of
persons interested in the return of the saloon under rigid restrictions, met
in Phoenix and decided to Initiate an amendment to carry out their ideas.
The exact form of the amendment wi'l be decided at a future meeting. It
is not their plan to conduct any campaign for its adoption.
Little interest was taken in the Phoenix city primary election. Only 4900
voters took the trouble to register and only 3K60 went to the Tolls. The
nominees for mayor are Peter Corpstein and George V. Young, incumbent.
Corpstein receiving 1479 votes to Young'? 1021. Frank Woods was elected
to the commission as he received more than half the votes cast at the pri
maries. Claude W. Cisney and James A. Jones were nominated for the
other commisslonership.
The plan of the board of control to erect a building on the capítol
grounds for the accommodation of the supreme court and attorney general
has been abandoned, as Attorney General Wiley Jones says that there is no
fund avail ab"e for that purpose.
Jones has also advised the board that there is no law under which Wil
liam Faltin can be removed from the asylum for 'the insane to the peniten
tiary. Faltin was convicted of murder in Maricopa county but his execu
tion was halted when a jury in the Pinal county superior court pronounced
him insane . The superintendent of the asylum is afraid that he will escape
from that Institution, which has no barred cells, and wanted to send him
back to the penitentiary for safe keeping. Three extra guards axe em
ployed to watch him night and day. The board has advised the superin
tendent to put up an iron cage and take any other steps necessary to prevent
Fal tin's escape.
FROM THE STATE CAPITAL
j " i u 1 1 . i ,,.uu... i ' ' ....... ..uuw, .u
C. A. Redmond, of Los
Angeles, district passenger
agent for the Salt Lake
Route, spent Tuesday in Hol
brook looking after business
for his company. The Salt
Lake road gets a large a
mount of passenger business
each year out of this county;
it is the most direct route to
Salt Lake city, and its service
is first-class in every respect.
Grover Brown, formerly
owner of the St. Johns Ob
server, now assistant cashier
in a bank in Globe, was in
Holbrook Tuesday night.
He was enroute from Globe
to St. Johns, here he will
visit relatives.
Miss Ruth Wallace has
been absent from her duties
in the Merchants & Stock -growers
bank this week be
cause of illness.
Additional Local News in Part 2
