FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
fir
fSip! :f liiifillt
A
mbtM
A II
rfiT
II! II II
i i
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
- -R .
VERDUN BOE IS AT
Experts Say Germany Is Ready to Make Unequalled Sacri
. fices to Capture Great Fort-Stakes All and If Unsuc
cessful the Blow Will Be Irreparable Hurricane of
Shell Fire and Ferocious Infantry Charges Feature of
' Battle-Each 1000 Yards Gain Cost 25,000 Lives
By William Phillip Simms
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Paris, March 10. With a blasting hurricane of shell
fire and furious infantry fighting the battle of Verdun is
entering its third and possible final phase.
The Germans are throwing massed battalions against
the French center around Fort De Vaux, and assailing
the French left repeatedly. There is a continuous roar of
artillery southeast of Verdun as far as Fresnes.
Experts are uniied in their belief "that Germany is
prepared to make unequalled sacrifices to capture Ver
dun. The French commanders show no semblance of fear
regarding the outcome. Colonel Rousett, a retired
French officer, declared Germany had planned a mighty
blow against Verdun. If it fails, he said, the check will
be irreparable.
Tlio first -phase 0 the battle must
have disappointed the German, it is
believed. They captured only advanced
positions, which were first blown to
pieces by lavish shelling. Then they
were checked and mowed down attack
ing the bulwarks to which the defend
eis retired.
The second phase was one of prepara
tion. Evidently the erown prince re-arranged
his plans as well as his artil
Jery. Now the third phase is developing
with heavy attacks on both wings, and
:i battering at the renter. Present
operations are seemingly preliminary to
a grand assault in which all will br
staked on one fierce rush from three
.sides.
From a French viewpoint even the
rupture of Verdun would now lie a hol
low victory. Borne time ago I was al
lowed to inspect the forts between Ver
dun and l'nris. An almost solid mass
of barbeil wire entanglements and
eai Ihvvorks will greet the Germans if
they smashed through Verdun.
General .Toffre rs conserving his men
against just such an emergency. De
spite reports to the contrary, Paris is
wcrenely confident. A neutral expert
told' me Germany was paying 23.PIM
men for oa.-h advance of 1.000 yards.
Exports, declare General .Toffre is able
to spare a few miles at that price.
l'aris. Mar. 10. It was officially an
nounced today that mst night's fight
ing around Verdun resulted in no
rh'inge. The situation on both bunks
of the Meuse is the same.
The statement reiterated nil Germans
bad been driven out of Vaux village
and denied the Germans claim thai
Vore De Vaux and adjoining positions
had been captured.
Violent artillery fighting continued
all night on both banks of the Meuse.
There were no infnntrty operations.
In addition to hotly denying report
ed German successes Hround Verdun.
It Aba Earth !
-.
Mrs. I.cm Spry has four daughter'
three married an' one urgly. Th' uc
fashioned girl who used t' scrub an'
sweep now has a daughter who take.
arm development by mail.
saw Wm J
LEaAiR, Willi I'
A I A
the official communique said: "The
German claim that Germans captured
the fortress and village of Vaux is an
insult to tho injustice of .neutrals. The
same thing may be said with regard to
the report spread by Germans that the
battle of Verdun was started by an at
tempted French offensive.
Many Aeroplanes Crippled.
Paris, Mar. 10. Two German aero
planes, including one of the famous
Fokkors, have been destroyed, and 13
others have dropped apparently dam
aged behind the German lines, during a
series of air battles around Verdun and
in the Champagne, dispatches declared
today.
Liner Torpedoed, Crew Saved.
Tnris, Mar. 10 The trans-Atlantic
(Continued on Page Four.)
RURAL CREDITS WILL
BE SUBMITTED ALONE
CONFERENCE IS OVER
The Irrigation, Drainage and Rural
Credits conference adjourned shortly
after noon today after passing a reso
lution to place three avowed anti-irriga-tiouists
on the committee to draft the
proposed constitutional amendment
along with two irrigationists and one
drainage man. This means that the
rural credit's nniendment to the state
constitution will come to the voters as
an amendment separate and apart from
the proposed amendment to vote bonds
for irrigation purposes, also it sounds
the ilentli knell to the irrigation meas
ure as this is a sectional controversy
and is favored by ouly the residents
of the dry land sections of eastern
Oregon while the rural credits measure
is finding favor throughout the state.
The dove of peace fluttered about the
capitol dome a few times only to be
frightened away by the noise of unre
strained oratory und its present address
is unknown.
The conference today was sharply di
vided on the question of separate
amendments for a rural credit amend
ment and another for irrigation and
drainage. The eastern Oregon irriga
tionists lead one faction which favored
placing both amendments on the ballot
as one measure and the farmers, labor
ers and western Oregon delegations
were united in opposition to this
scheme anil favored a rural credits
amendment as a separate measure.
Chairman Mills was called away on
business and 1.. E. Bean, of Eugene
served as chairman for the remuindei
of the session.
A War of Language.
I. X. Day, of Portland, and W, I.nir
Thompson, of I.rikcview, were the lead
ers of the irrigationists and A. F. ."hum
way. of Milton, a member of the Farm
ers' union delegation, lead the other
faction. The war of words started when
a resolution wns introduced to appoint
n committee of seven to take s'eps to
draft amendments an.l to conduct a
campnign of education for the voters to
secure the passage of the proposed
amendments.
' Mr. Shumway offered an amendment
SALEM
innrnnuiA iiiitii
!
E!
About 1,700 Men In State
Who Can Be Called Into
Service If Necessary
The only subject upon which the del
egates to the Irrigation, Drainage And
Rural Credits conference appeared to
he united was the Mexican situation
and a burst of applause followed the
announcement that President Wilson
lid ordered I'nited States troops into
Mexico to capture Villa.
In reply to inquiries as to the num
ber of trooos which Oregon could con
tribute at once, should intervention in
Mexico occur, anil tho national guard
be called upon, Governor Withycombe
issued the following statement:
"I have gone over the matter thor
oughly with Adjutant General White
and find that the following units cm
be counted upon at once:
"I regiment of infantry.
"8 coin panics of coast artillery.
' 1 battery of field artillery.
"1 troop of cavalry.
"Sanitary detachments.
"The pc.ice strength of the above em
braces about 1700 men, and raised to
war strength they would include ap
proximately three thousand men. Our
militia is today in a high state of effi
ciency and General White has assured
nie th.it it would be ready promptly in
accordance with the mobilization plans
outlined by the war department."
When asked if he believed the militia
would be called upon in the near future,
Governor Withycombe said:
"I do not think so, as I am inclined
to believe the regular troops should be
able to bring1 the Mexicans under Villi
to justice. However, the situation has
become very acute and it is possible at
any time for new developments to re
quire the calling out of at least a part
of the militia. If so, T am very glad to
s.iy that Oregon is ready and anxious to
do its share, and so f ir as I am con
ccrned, the adiutant general and his
organization will have my most entnu
siastic assistance and co-oper.uion in
any steps which may prove necessary."
SMALLPOX AT MOSCOW
Moscow, Idaho. Mar. 10. Several
fraternity houses are quarantined, ind
social functions or all kinds are pro
hibited today because practically the
entire University or Idaho has been ex
posed to smallpox.
to this resolution to the effect that two
I committees of three each be appointed
: to serve on this committee with the at-
I torney general to draft the measures
j and in his amendment was named ( . h.
Spence, master of the state grange; .1,
j D. Brown, president of the Fanners'
union, and T. II. Burchnrd, of the ted
1 oration of labor.
j The irrigationists hotly opposed this
amendment and ob erred to their In
being drawn up by its opponents. W.
I,. Powers, of Corvnllis, a member of
the drainage delegation, offered a'l
j amendment that one of the other three
I members o'f the committee be a drain
age member, and this amendment car
ried. After an extended discussion, pre
and con, with considerable con. a mo
tion was made to nlfow the chairman
of the conference to appoint the com
mittee to represent the irrigationist
and drainage men. This wns put to a
I vote and carried 20 to 29 and the Shum
way 's resolution came to a vote and
carried with onlv a few scattering
"nays."
! This served to convince the irriga
tionists that they were beaten in any
attempt to hang an irrigation measure
ns a rider to the rural credits measure
It was talked about the conference that
the irrigation bill wns doomed if
came up alone before the voters of the
state but that there was an excellent
rhnnce for the passage of a rural cred
its bill, hence the stir right to Incor-
1 porate the two in one measure as the
only salvation of the irrigationists.
All Kinds of Suggestions.
i Floods of orntory were unloosened
and ideas and "my opinions" ran riot
at today's session. Tho various' mem
bers proposed all sorts of legislation
though all were united on rural credits
or cheaper money for the farmer. How
ever, a great many of the delegates
were opposed to bonding the credit of
the state for rural credits anil it was
the prevailing belief that the commun
ity system of voting bonds would meet
with more favor with the rank and file
(Continued oo Fag Two )
OREGON, FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1916"
SEVENTEEN DEAD
AT COLUMBUS ARE
CHARGED 10 VILLA
Story of Cowardly Attack of
Murderous Bandit Told
In Detail
100 DEAD BANDITS LEFT
ALONG LINE OF FLIGHT
American Soldiers Asleep
When Attack Began, But
Got to Work Quickly
LEAD ADD SEVENTEEN DEAD ..
I'VE ONLY BEGUN
FIGHTING SAYS VILLA
Columbus, X. M., Mar. 10.
"Americana will suffer for
Mr. Wibon's act in recogniz-
s(c ing he-whiskered Carranza," s):
General Francisco Villa stated
after the Columbus fighting to
Julio Garcia, Mexican cowboy
who arrived here today.
" I have only started my cam-
paign against 'gringoes.' Wait;
they will yet hear from Fran-
cisco Villa ' am going to in-
vade the C'nited States, burn
cities and kill every 'gringo' I
can find men, women and
children." s
Garcia said he met Villa 20
miles south of the border, and
camped for a while with him.
sjc
Columbus, N. M., Mar. 10. -Villista
raids over the border into American
territory continued today.
The state of .New Mexico was in
vaded at sevenl points. Between Co
lumbus and llachitn bandits this morn
ing and last night dashed across the
line, looteit rancli houses, drove away
cattle, horses anil wigous, wrecked
farm machinery and destroyed build
ings. Telephone advices said there were no
additional murders. Colonel Slocum's
report announced all raiders were clear
ed from American soil before noon.
Patrols sent word of lirgo bands en
camped close to the boundary at many
places. Just before daylight several
mounted bandits, carrying loot, were
seen crossing back to the Mexican sule.
Villistas now estimated to number
4.000 are believed lurking within x
few miles of the bonier. Wherever
they are visible, patrols watch their
movements closely.
Soldiers from Fort Bliss have reach
ed Victoria where they found the in
habitants had been in terror all night,
fearing an attack. The first batallion,
twentieth infantiy, detrained at 7:13
i. m. today and pitched camp on the
edge ' town. Villistas were reported
on American soil early today within a
mile of Victoria, which is four miles
north of the border, but they did not
attempt an attack.
The first battalion, eleventh infantry
arrived at llachiti at H a. in. Troop A
of the Seventh cavalry was immediate
ly sent southward to watch movements
of a large band of outlaws reported
near the border.
Like Old Indian Days.
Wierd sigiuls were flashed along the
bonier during the night. They were
presumably seat by Villistas. Here and
there on the vast plains and on the
slopes of the desert hills lights flared,
fires blazed briskly for n moment ami
then died. Ranchers watched the sig
nals in fear, then gathered tiieir fam
ilies in tiie strongest houses mil mar
shalled the men together with rifles
ready, prepared to repel expected at
tacks. These tense scenes recalled stories of
frontier davs when hostile Indians
threatened settlers. Mexicans were j
seen in every shadow and false alarms
were numerous. Occasion illy a child
cried with fright, but for the most parti
they kept silent, and the bravery ot
the women was widely commented on
when daylight returned.
South of the bonier, where the Amer
icans must tight Villa if they invade,
the country is desert like and barren.
Water is s'-aree, roads are few ami In
bid repair. The district is practically
empty. Toward the Sierra Madres, to
which Villa may eventually retire, the
landscape grows rougher. It is over
grown with cactus and desert vegeta
tion, an.l the mountains arc grim and
forbidding.
Funston Wants to Pursue.
Washington. Mar. 10. Authority foi
American troops to invade Mexico ami
(Continued on i'aje Seven.)
E
TELLS STORY OF FALL
Dead Silence Prevails As Girl
Tells of Her Relations
with Preacher
Oroville, Cal., Mar. 10. Gertrude
I.amson, fifteen-year-old school girl,
faced the supreme ordeal of her young
life today.
Attorney's for Rev. Madison Slaugh
ter, whom she accused of attacking
her, began cross examining her in an ef
fort to discredit the story she told on
the witness stand in the minister's
trial. As she answered their sharp
questions, Slaughter stared fixedly at
her, and friends and neighbors whom
she had known for years, listened eag
erly. The girl's direct exnmiuation was re
sumed when court convened today. In
her first moments on the .stand, she tes
tified that she understood the nature
of the charges against Slaughter and
swore she had had alleged improper re
lations with him. Then the district at
torney demanded when theso alleged
relations began. Defense counsel stren
uously objected. A lengthy debate be
gan. The judge expected to mnke known
his decision during the morning.
As the little girl tove her testimony
the silence was intense. Every catch
in her voice, the slightest faltering,
could be distinctly heard.
Mrs. I.amson, her mother, nearly
fainted on the witness 'stand. Her tes
timony'consisted of an admission that
Slaughter from the very beginning de
nied the truth of Gertrude's allegations.
Other witnesses testified in support of
Mrs. Thomas Whiddcn's assertion that
Slaughter and the girl spent long per
iods alone together in an almond or
chard. -Mrs. Whiddrn grew hysterical
under cross examination and cried ex
citedly that she was telling the truth,
"and nothing but the truth," when de
fense lawyers seemed to insinuate other
wise. Stio!is to Her Story.
Oroville, Cal., Mar. 10. On the wit
ness stand todny Gertrude Lamson, 13
years old, who accuses Rev. Madison
Slaughter of a statutory offense swore
the minister had attacked her repeat
edly. (Questioned by the district attorney,
she repeated in detail the story she had
tohl the authorities. Siie alleged that
Slaughter had said to her:
"Gertrude, I have been jsked to cor
rect you about a friend you are going
with, and this is the only way I can get
your confidence."
After tho alleged attacks, Miss Lam
son testified Slaughter told her he
would send her to the penitentiary if
she made charges ag.iinst him, as he,
she said, was a minister and n o I io,lv
would believe her unsupported word
against his.
Cross examined, Gertrude acknowl
edged she had always had an aversion
for Slaughter. She admitted she dis
liked him from the first that she feared
him and believed him unkind. The girl
said she was afraid to resist him.
The Only Solution Says
: General Pershing
El Paso, Texas, Mar. 10. Brigadier
General John J. Pershing, in cominnud
of border troops here, today praised
President Wilson for his detcrmi nation
to punish Geuernl Francisco Villa.
"The president is to be highly com
mended on his attitude," said General
Pershing. "It is the only solution of
the situation. I told Carranza repre
sentatives yesterday that if Villa was
permitted to continue his lawlessness,
his murders of foreigners and his de
struction of property, the death knell
of the Carranza faction would be
sounded.
"I urged the Cnrranzistas to ask
American assistance in running down
the murderer anil bandit, Villa, und his
followers." I
Salem Boy Ordered
- To Mexico with Troops
Bishec, Ariz., Mar. !l The Tenth Tin
ted States cavalry stationed at Fort
lluacliuca, Ariz., 10 miles west of here,
has been ordered to Douglas, Ariz., to
reinforce the Mexican border patrol, it j
was wtnted tonight. The cavalrymen j
will leave here tonight on a special
t ru in.
Second Lieutenant I,. A. Walton, the
youngest brother of Cashier Walton, of
the l.add & Bush bank, of this city, is a
member of the Tenth cavalry. He was
graduated from West Point Inst year
and has already seen considerable ac
tive service along the border.
FIGHT WITH GERMAN SAILORS
T.ondnn, Mar. 10 Germ in and Amer
ican sailors have engaged in repeated
street fights before tiie American em
bassy at Constantinople, according to a
censored cable received by the ex
change Telegraph, comp my today.
nornm Twn
PRICE TWO
liICO HflD jjllLi
CHASE TO BEGIN AT ONCE
Army of 8,000 Will At Once Invade Mexican Territory and
. Not Leave It Until Villa Is Eliminated and Mexicans
Taught To Respect Rights of Americans and Other
Foreigners This Will Be Done In Friendly Spirit To
ward Mexico, But It Will Be Thoroughly Done
Washington, March 10. Eight thousand American
soldiers will invade Mexico immediately.
They will go with the single purpose of capturing
General rFancisco Villa and exterminating his band of
followers who raided Columbus, New Mexico.
This was announced this afternoon by President Wil
son in the following statement:
"An adequate force will be sent into Mexico at once
in pursuit of Villa with the single object of capturing him
and putting a stop to his forays. This can and will be
done entirely in friendly aid of the constituted authorities
in Mexico, and with scrupulous respect for that republic's
sovereignty." . .
The president's declaration indicated Provisional
President Carranza had informed this government he
was willing Americans cooperate with him in ending
Villa's banditry.
Secretary of War Baker refused a statement as to the
war department's plan of action. He indicated he might
issue a statement later.
While it wns not announced, it is
probable that President Wilson will
send a message to congress within a
few days outlining his rensnus for to
day's orders. He ncieo! similarly in or
dering the fleet to Vera Cruz. Congress
then immediately passed a resolution of
approval.
2,000 Cavalry With Army.
The American expedition will consist
chiefly of infantry with at least 2,000
cavalry, a detachment of field artillery
and several batteries of mountain guns
on pnek mules. The mountain guns
are especially adapted to the guerilla
fighting which is anticipated south of
the Rio Grande.
A "flying column" o'f 2,000 men,!
mostly cavalry, will constitute the au
vance force which is to do the active
work of searching out Villa and making
tentative plans for the campaign.
The Americans probably will concen
trate at or near Columbus within 21
hours. From points cast and west of
Columbus the remainder of the expedi
tion will be hurried toward Mexico un
til they have gone southward fur
enough to turn toward each other,
tncreiiy surrouuiling ma ir possum-.
General Scott, chief of staff, is in ac- j
tivo charge at the war department. I
Secretary Maker lias decided to leave
matters to Scott, being unfamiliar with
tin' crisis himself. Scott was acting sec
retary of war after Garrison resigned.
Representations to Mexico thus far
have consisted only of advising Flisen
Arrendondo. Mexican representative, of
the situation, nnd expressing a hope
that Carranza will not object to the
pursuit of Villa on Mexican soil.
"Get Villa Dead or Alive."
When the cabinet met, several mem
bers were committed to the belief that
America's first action should be to
"get Villa, dead or alive." Meanwhile
tension increased. Senators Stone nnd
Fall poined in usking the senate to sus
pend action until the troops hnd com
pleted their present operations, nnd un
til further information of the Colum
bus outrage had been received.
Stone was obviously angered elenr
through. lie referred to the Villista
invaders ns "murdering whelps" and
intimated lie might icnd an organized
demand for aggressive action.
Senator McCuinber introduced a reso
lution demanding that something be
done. It declared that, for two years,
murders of Americans and acts of
fiendish brutality hud been weekly oc
currences, that the government had ex
hausted every effort to keep from intor-
, ' ni . I t 1
veiling, ami mat an einnts uu rn
worse than fruitless. The resolution
said the American attitude only em
boldened the bandits commit furth-J
er atrocities. McCuinber s measure wns
referred to the senate foreign commit
tee. The senate met with the air of a man
whose finger is on the trigger but who
is not rpiite ready to fire. Senator
Gnllinger was ready to introduce a flat
declaration of war on Mexico. Senator
Fall had ready a resolution calling for
an invading force of fin.OOD men.
Nearly nil incmhcres had telegrams
hotly demanding summary action. Most
of them were disposed to see what the
military branches of the government
would do before risking a senate outbreak.
fcwTa on trains and nkwb
CENTS stands five cent
The Official Beport.
Wa-shington, Mar. 10. -Colonel Slo
cum's official account of tho fightinff
around Columbus, N. M., as given out
by tho war department today, follows:
"When Villa's troops fell buck front
Columbus, we followed them with an
extended line At the saino time I sent
Major Thompkins with threo mounted
troops to attack Thompkins followed
the enemy about 'five miles into Mex
ico, having three bloody fights wit1
them. Finally the enemy mndo a stand
with i,t eiitiTO force. That halted
Thompkins' advance.
"We had a corporal killod In the pur
nuit. The Mexicans as they fled drop
ped considerable material and loot they
had stolen in the town.
"I nm reliably informed it was Villa
himself who attacked with fifteen hun
dred men, leaving about 1,000 on the
river east of Boca Grande.
"From his spies in Columbus, Villa
was informed that them were but four
troops here with threo machine gun
crews. He intended to enpturo the town,
loot the bank nnd kill all Americans.
"Our casualties -rre five wounded
and Rcven killed. Lieutenant Benson,
was shot in tho arm. and Captain Wil
liams, adjutant, slightly wounded in tho
hand.
"Eight civilians were killed in town,
including a woman. Wo have burned
tlin bodies of 27 Mexican soldiers. Most
of them were killed in town, some near
tho bank. Many other dead Mexicans
lio on Villa's line of retreat about a
milo west of here. They have not yet
been collected.
"Mexican troops under Villa's per
sonal command, by his orders, made a.
chnrge through our camp. Our troops
turned out quickly nnd drovo back the.
Mexicans, killing 17 in or about camp
and about 10 or 12 in town."
Crush Villa the Slogan.
Washington, Mar. 10. "Crush Vil
la" is tho new American slogan, suc
ceeding the former administration pol
icy o'f "Huerta must go."
A complete cleanup campaign against
Mexico border bandits especially Villa,
is promised, with fighting for uu in
definite length of time by an Amer
ican border army of about 19,000
men.
According to present administration
(Continued on Pago Eiaht.)
TIIE WEATHER
CIHP WEATHER)
Oregon: Un
settled tonight
Saturday, south
erly winds.
