THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; warmer to
morrow; gentle variable winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 75; lowest, 63.
Retailed wenther, mall nnd marine reports on page lu.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXX1V. NO. 10.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1916. Copyright, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
54 PAGES. '
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
RUMANIANS WIN W's quit halicz .
ah in rnnnirpn' AS RUSSIANS TAKE FORTS
un iwju r nun io,
FOE IN RETREAT
Army of New Ally Gains in
Transylvania and North
eastern Serbia.
1M SSIAXS TUHX TIDE
I V mini iwiiitvt i
J. llll'i JRUml IMA
,
Teutons May He Driven
Vl'nlll Tlltv.'ll.-llll nml Ot1lnl
J101ll 1 Utiaivail ailtl UtllCl
...
UmUired TOWnS. , ,
SIX PLACES TAKEN
FK03ETI1E AUST1UAXS '
Advance of 30 Miles Made
Tnto Province Teutons
Lose Ports.
t.oxpo.v, Sept. 9. Important Hu
:nar.!ari fcticceiVes on all fronts aro
reported to-night. In southeastern
P.mnanln, In Transylvania and In
northeastern S'crbln, which tho Ru
manians are reported to have entered,
tlio Teutons and their allies nro re
trejting. Tlv Kusslans have turned the title In
the Dobrudjn. where the Hermans nnd
llulgurx licgatj their Invasion a few
dtyt ago. Russians and Rumanians,
according to an otllclal ttatement ls
sud at Hucharcst, have driven the In
siders out of Dobrlc (R.uardjik), Ilf
tten miles nortli of the Bulgarian bor
der lu southeastern Rumania. It Is
expected that the Teutons soon will be
driven from Tutrakan and other cap
tured Rumnnlan towns back to Bui
garb, whenco they came.
In nortnern Transylvania the Ru
manians haxe taken Olah Toplltza and
flvu other towns from tho Austrian,
This Is an advance of ne.irlv fhlsA mlta
hlrtV mltei
Ir.to Transylvania, and another step In
,, . 1
the Rumanian campaign to squeeze the
Auvtrlans out of the ul.olc province. J
j
Ilnllnny I Thrrntrnrd. 1
The llerlln.('oiiKiiiiiiliii.iii n.iitunv I. '
threatened by n new Rumanian advance
reported In an unconfirmed despatch
fr'ini Athens. To cut this railway would
he virtually to separate Germany nnd
utr a from Turkey and Itulgnrla, an
mportaiit aim of allied strategy and a
Mroko which
uhlch would promise highly !m-!
.,..r,.re. '
consilience. . .
portarlt
Aeeonllllg to the despatch the nu-
manlans have crossed the Panubo and'
o-rtipied the Serbian town of Negotln. '
,, , , . . ,
n miles Inside tho border and forty 1
11 1( - south of Orsova. Negotln Is on j
railroad, and f-om It the Rumanians '
-01.M have two routes for a slash at th 1
. ... . . . . 1
Oi.ctit Railroad. They might go thirty-
:i niu-s to .ayetcliar nnd then forty- '
fi e miles to Paratchm, which Is on the
r.i Iroad, or from Zavetchar they might
10 s.xty miles to .v'ts'n through which
:a.lrn:id also runs. The latter routo
more likely, though longer.
T'ie te. apturc of IiasiinlJIk bv the Ru
in ii.,ans shows tho strength of the Itus
j'.an army that stnrtid south through
' umanlu as soon 11s lluni'inia declared
sr .mil has now arrived 011 the Held 111
he n ei. of time to turn the Teutonic In-'.I-
')ii into a letreat,
r.vldeidly this ltuslnn army, de
' ne. pi l'ctrograd despatches as very
riing, already hat forced a Teutonic
re' renient from many of tho positions
.ikeit in Rumania and will forco a rc
t.rcinct.t from other posts.
Teutons Give Ui Port.
It certain that the Germans and Bui
nr, have had to glvo up tho Black Sea
.ort nf Kavarii.i and Kail Akra. which
! north of BisardJIk. These points aro
v Teutonic right flank. News that
havo been forced out of Aflatar,
"ie more than ten mlbs south of the
'tjiianlan fortress of Slllstria, Is ex-
t,,l at atiy time.
T' ts drliuig back of the Teutonic right
' ' - and centre Is almost certain to bo
fr!Ioied t,y a withdrawal of thn left j
which rests a little north of cap-1
urd Tutrakan. Ilasardllk, the recap
tared elty Is south of a line drawn
'ru.ght east from Tutrakan, and If the 1
T ui .rn In Tutrakan do not withdraw
"a- will ho caught with tho Russians
111 Rumanians in front of them und tho I
1'.' ij'ie nnd Rumania behind. I
The result will be that the Russo-1
'in nlan plan of u Invasion of liulga
r'.rrl. .l I
. 1
from the DobrtniJa will lio
"Jt, .1 ii witli greater chance of success
ii" 1' the Teutons never had Invaded
lln in .1, Together with the reported
lln in an advance Into Serbia, this
Mniii I cut off the Bulgarian and Teuton
f 11 the Balkans and pin them be-
'"" GUI, S.irrall'H army at Salonlca
1 Hie RusAo-liumanlan armies to the
1.111
Ilerlln Una flihrr Report.
The official announcement of thn Ru
1 -iin.n, War Office lo-nlght that Basard
J 1 1 hat been retaken discounts tho des
Nitines of German correspondents tell
of an advance fifty miles Into Ru
le in, 1 by Hit) German troops, who lost
' ' 1 iy, only fifteen ml lex from tho
bonier
'It man despatches filed before the an
"r' t inent of the recapture of Biisard
: tj that thn Bulgarians show no re
Ijcv.iko to light their quondam friends
' ' K'i-M.iiim, nnd Ibat two battalions of
' 11 i.ivalry cut to pieces a Russian
'"allou
Premier Ratloilavof of 'Bulgaiia Is
'in, nl in the Cologne Gaxtttr as Maying
' ' 'in victories over Rumania show
t'ie en Imslasjtii anil conlbleneo of Bill
1 and that her delay In declaring
was duo to strategic reasons, not
Cont(nudjm Uscvni rag.
Czar's Troops Hold Left Bank of Dniester Retreating
Teutons Blow Up Great Bridge Across River
Will Open Way to Lemberg.
London-, Sept. 9. Tho Austrlars arei
evacuating Halicz, tho key to Lemberg,
Mini tt... .1 4 '
uiu jvuKHiiiiiB Iiava nrriinlftd ntn nfi
the Hallpx rnrt. tu ' ......t I
11 indium yiusirinns
blotting- u others. Russian troops hold
I the left bank of the Dniester opttoslte '
! Halicz. but the Austrlans have blown
' un tho ur.m i.ri.i ..... .. .
up the. great bridge across tho river.
0 "uslnns are reported
to buvo taken tho, railroad station of
Halicz and to bo bombarding tho Aus-
man troops
retreating from Halloa
'across tho river. They have wrecked
two troop trains, according to despatch
tfrom th0 corrcspondcnt of the Russky
u,ul ,lcul r.B
! Tho fall of Hales will Ihmt. i ......
tots open to a lluSS.m advance from .
tho southeast. The fall of Halicz In
It'll wax followed by the ItiTsxlan
tutc of Lemberg, and Halicz. an Impor- of Lemberg, was beaten back. Ucrlln which met here to-day. fact that he iiM Mv.nuirrf.Trm numbers of tho tralllc oiiuad. Tho re
tnnt railway Junction on ihn Dni..i. sjv. ....... . .. ' ... i .7 1 ..Inc .UT."- .".a perform ......
lw.n. h :i m i .a. .i ,.: . '
Lemberg. the Gallc.an fo, tress and'eap-
Will Oprft lloail to I.rinbrrs;.
Gsn. Von Kothmer'H army north of
Halicz along the Gnlla Llpa und Its
tributary, the N'arlmka, will be forced
to retire as soon as Halicz Is taken, as
tho ltuislans at Halicz would turn the
tlank of this entire position. Thus the
road to Lemberg would be opened.
Lemberg Is expected to make a
stronger defence than In 1914 to the Itus-
sian attacks. The urmy thaf defended
Jlallcz h i n J mn
on the twentv.ilve .nll fr . ,', h ,T.
has been strongly revnforced by Her
mans and Turks, while In 19U It was an
Austrian nrmy only. Alo, the defences
to the city undoubtedly have been greatly
strengthened.
PRESIDENT AND WIFE I
AT SHADOW LAWN
Motor Aloiw Beach and the:
Crowds Kail to Hccog
nizc Tliem.
I.oNU llKANcif, Sept. 9. I'rcsldent and
Mrs. Wilson arrived at Shadow liwn
at 1 o'clock this afternoon. From At.
lantlo City they motored for a hundred
mllan along the ocean front. They passed
couutless bathers and other vucatlunisls,
oui were not recognized
This afternoon the l'resldcnt visile!
his daughter. Mrs. William G. Mo.VIju.
wh'1 ,ri.-coerliig from an attack of
m.V'w, .? , , 1"V,RUl
be and Mrs. Wilson attended a perfoim-
ance of "John W. Illake." u new play
by Rol Cooper Megrue and Irvln S. Cobh,
at the Uroadway Theatre, Long Hranch.
The President and Secretary McAdoo
discussed tlie campaign for a short tlmo
yjn .iiniiiju .ir. iisuii win ue
gin planning the speeches he is to make
from the porch of Shado.v Lawn. He
will have a series of conferences with
Democratic National chairman McCor
inick, starting early In the week.
Fifteen clerks and secretaries from
the White House are on hand to estab-
sh executive cilices In Asbury l'ark on
Monday. The President will see all his
vj,Uor, al .siaj0w Lawn nnd will spend
little time at the offices. Soon after his
arrival to-day he learned by telephone
f'"m tl'o White House that nothing of
Importance had como up since hia de-
pjrjmv,
.Many curious persons flocked I" I
Shadow Lawn as soon as they heard
,n,,t ,l,c urm JS'tS,
service men and polloo keiit them 01T the
j,rernlsea.
PRESIDENT'S SISTER ILL.
I Mm. Annie K. Hone Reported
to
lie In Hrrloua Condition.
Rai.ti.mokb, Sept. P. Mrs. Annie II.
Howe, only sister of President Wilson,
Is seriously III In a hotel In New Iin
doii. Conn., according to a telegram
received hero to-day by Joseph It. Wll
I nun. a brother. Mr. Wilson suld Ills
I sister had been In declining health for 1
1 some time and bad been spending the.
summer lu New wngiutiu. iv r nonie, is
in Philadelphia.
Mrs. Howe, the
President and their
brother hero comprlso tho Wilson gen
eration. LOST ZEP CAPTAIN IDENTIFIED. ;
He Wiim a Prussian Who Had Bern
Decorated (or Balds.
KfttJEita, Denmark, Sept. !) (via Lon
don). Tho Courier of Hanover, Ger
many, sayH the commander of tho air
ship which was brought down In Eng
land during tho raid of n week ago
was Capl. Schramm, a native of Hameln,
Prussia,
The Captnin had received tne iron
Cross of the First Class for various
raids over tancy. nunains nnu liniwuu.
CANADA'S NEW WAR LOAN.
It Will He for 100,000,000 and
Will Hon 10 Yrara.
fiTTiw. Out.. Sent. 9, Canada's new
war loan will bn for J100.000.000 nt 971.4.
bearliur Interest at r. tier cent, and run
ning for llfteeu years. It was announced
here to-dny. The subscription books will
be opened 011 Tuesday, It was stated.
The Dominion's last war loan was
$50,000,000, but twice that amount wus
subscribed,
Tho exact dale when the new bonds
will mature Is October 1, 1&31, with prin
cipal untl Interest payable In gold, tho
fnnner at the several oltlccs of tho As
sistant Rcciivers-Gonetul throughout
Canada and l.he Interest at any Do
minion branch of the chartered banks.
Through the latter Institutions the
subscriptions may bo made In the Instal
ments extending over October, Novcm
her and December. The lists will bo
closed not later than September 23.
HI K II Ida 'In German Loan.
Beiii.i.v, .Sept. 9 by wireless), Among
subset Iptlons to tho fifth German war
loan received to-day were three aggre
gating 3Ii.000.000 marks. Thn Branden
burg Agricultural Bank subscribed for
ir,,000,ooo marks, while tho (Irrmnula
Assurance Company nml tho Jthelnlsh
Province Titlo and Assurance Company
each to 3k 10,000,000 marks of thn loan,
DAILY THROU1IH TRAINK HOUTII AMI
NOUTHWKMT vis Heathern Hallway. N. Y,
OSlco Ztt fifth Av. 'moil Mad. uk. nm.
Halicz linil been put in a sack by Hus-
slnn "''varices nortli, south nntl eait, ami I
tvirrlrMHiiriV In Hia Inat ttw iluva hv thn.
" "
wo driven forward nortli of It
nml .
...... . ....... 1 il. r, . . .. t . . ..
Tho '
lighting In Its defence, however, has been
mo,t bloody ami the retirement sloweri
th"n t' cnrfl nK' . I
or Iour " 8 "u ntgnis me. nussians
haVo i,Ccii attacking the Teutonic,
trenches Incessantly and throwing a
heavy torrent of shells Into them nnd
1,1,0 ,he t0WI1'
Take 1,000 Prisoner.
lie juntisn rciniorccments inrewiiacK
Russian attackn on tho front north of
Halicz yesterday, according to a German '
()1Ilclal FtlltP111Pnl llmt rcachMl hw. Th0.
Turks drove tlin Illusions from Turkish
tenches they had entered nnd took I.OUO ,
prisoner. A ltu-lan nttack .-ast of
Zlochoff. fortv miles almost dlreeitv mi
... .u. . . I
more ' advances In 'Vhe.V' attempt to nKh?
inrougn me wooaru anu rocKy mountain
IienkH nml rnvnnn rlnirn iinnn H.n ..UIm.
'"""" uuys" u',u" P'a'n"
... .iiiiiK.tr. iney arc now so near ine
Hungarian boundary lino that at uny I
lime iney are cxpctcilto cross it.
South of llarouoff tho Iltisslans car
ried a series of heights held by the
Austrian-) and took 500 prisoners. They
also captured five machine guns and a
whole mountain battery which the Aus
trl.ms had thrown Into a ravine to save
from capture.
The German official statement admits
thl the Teutonic forces In this region
"or,n.,Vf s' "f Kapul ylrtd.,1 before the
iiu-Mian ai-.acKs. Host aim south oi
Hhypot and near lorna Valra tho Teu
tons Ik Id llrm against attacks. A little
south of this region the Russians and
Rumanians havo Joined and arc attack
ing. VILLA BEARS US NO
GRUDGE, HE ASSERTS
"All I Am After Is Killing
Traitors and Carrnnza
I Have Plenty of Huns.'
Rt. 1'aso, Tex., Sept. 9. News from
Chihuahua clly to-day was that after
a conference of Generals In that city
It had been decided to concentrate all
available Carrnnza troops wott of Chi
huuhua city with all artillery inisslble
and make 11 supieme effort to lente al'd
capture lyanclson Villa and his bandit.
It N believed Villa ts still In thu Santa
Clara Canyon.
American officials at the border con
tinue to deny that American forces
have c!ahed' with Villa or any of his
command as far as they know.
Villa bears no aplmoslty toward
American", he declated lu 11 haraneue to
tho populace of Satevo, following his
capture of that town a few i!.i.h ago,
"You see before you Pancho Villa,
bandit; but you nlso see that 1 pay my
soldiers In silver," began the chieftain,
according to one. of his auditors, who
reached Juarez to-day. "You can see
lh! silver on them. Walt a while and
you shall sec me come with a big army
1 have plenty of guns and ammunition.
Tho (iringoes could not i-ipturc urn when
1 was half dead. They tight harder
than the Carrnnzlstas, but I bear them
no grudge. All that I am after Is killing
traitors and Carranza,"
CAMP WILSON TO REMAIN.
I'uiiston Oirrrnlrd In Changing
.Natnr to Cecil A. Lynn.
Sa.v Antonio, Sept. 9. Camp WIIon
thu tented city which shelters the thou
sands of National Guardsmen stationed
here, will remain Camp Wilson, .Major
Gen. Funston said to-day. The War De
partment has ruled to that effect.
M'L .1.. ...... ,1.. I
I1VII lll'J kU'IIUpjiiii .tin. kiiiiii'ii-ii
here Postmaster Armlstead j.amej tho
mobilization site "Camp Wilson." nfter
II. r. 1r.lil.nt V i.ek nun Cor,, l'nn.
siun aiiiiiiuiiicii 111. 11 loiiii.iij t..inii-,
1... i.r....,..,a, .tin.. u
UOU.-l ,tl ...I' ... , ,. r,
could only be named after dead persons
and changed the designation to "Camp
uccll A. Lyon:
.....I..... , ...n,..t..l .1.. II.. D.
Olllco Department nt Washlugloii
against the change. The protest was
carried to tho War Department, which
upheld tho Postmaster.
U. S. PROBE INTO BREAD PRICES.
I District Attnrnrr dyne nt Chicago
Sera. Trust Law Violation,
C'iiicaoo, Sept. 9. Federal Investiga
tion of tho National Association of Mas
ter Bakers' plan to make the prlco of
small loaves of bread six cents Itmtead
of five was started here to-day,
Charles F. Clyne. United States Dis
trict Attorney, said the plan for ono
baker In a community to advance tho
prlco and then havo tho others follow
would constitute a violation of tho antl
tuist laws.
The plan to advance the price was
announced ut a meeting of tho execullvo
committee of tho Bakers Association
here yesterday. This step was necesary,
it was declared, because of the sharp
Increaso In the price of materials.
DlliMlNUMAM, Ala., Sept, 11. The lo
cal bakers' association announced to-dny
that beginning Monday 10 cents would
bo tho piico of u twenty ounco loaf of
bread.
TRAPPED BY FLAMES, DIES.
Victim T ylnn to llracun Paprra
Loira Life in Fire.
Goorgo Bandores, a Greek fruit dealer
at 131 Rast Forty-second street, wan
bnrned to death yesterday In a flro
which Blurted becaiiso a neighbor tried
to heat paraflln oil over a Htove. Ban
dores had been warned of the tinmen and
had left his store, hut apparently recol
lected somo business papers ho had left
behind him. Bark Into tho store ho
went and there thu flames trapped him.
John J. Daley, manager of it trucking
llrm at 133 Rust Forl -second street,
was heating tho nil when tho container
burst, sputtering tho blazing fluid over
tho of lice. H and Goorgo Moretes, it
clerk for Bandores, fought tho tire, and
then, Ncelng they could not quench It,
sent In an alarm.
NK.tV YOHK TO CIIATTANOOtlA ft RE
TllKN 1.M. Account Orsnit Lodge I. O.
O. K.. vl stonthrra Railway, Tlcksts on lo
Kept. U-U. Nt Y. Otllc : ruth Ave.
FARMERS LIFT MILK
PRICE CENT A QUART
t
Those Who Supply City Fix
New Scale for Distribu
ting Concerns.
. ... ,,,
100 MILK ZONE LAID OUT
'
Dairymen IlCliCVC Cost to tllC
Consumer Should Not
He Increased.
Alhant, Sept. 9, The farmers supply-'
ing New York city with milk arc to rc-!
celve nearly a cent Increaso n quart ,
.
"1C ulf "1IK distributing companies
agree to pay Stato Commissioner of ,
Vooit nm, Mnrkeu j0 3
.... ... ...... ...
''r';,0 or m"" " ncu U1'" 11
nrtt "lx by the executive
for tho I
coin-
mllleo of the Stale Dairymen's Lcacue.
nuo none or tno representative, far-
mc "ho ndca the meeting "' 1
iuo:u as to ine prooauic price to
.1.. . ..... .. ..
ino consumer that would result from,
,, .... ,
th nnlntnn i Vi-it li a ,tlFtkniln
pame. even under ,.,!. incren!e. would 1
receive tho milk at a price which would
render It 'unnecessary to raise the pres. 1
cut cost to the consumer .
tin cosi to tno consumer. i
...ii.k going into .-sew iorK city rrom
the S'.ntefl of New York, New Jersey,
! Ivanla. Connecticut and Massa-'
chusctts. within
a zone of 100 miles of
Is to ue furnished by I
New York city.
tho fanners through Commissioner 1111-
i .i i . 1
lon to the dbtilbutlng comp.inlrs lit the Two With Thrlr Charges Ar
followlt.g prices for g-ade It milk te.f rr.ted by Federal Inspector.
Ing :t per cent, butter fat for tho text .. .
six munil;n:
Old l'rle i
New 1'rlen
Per loi l.ti,
... UV'
Menlh.
OiluU r
NoierrlH-r.
Pir Id) l.h, i
II :n
I II
i :n
i.e.
t j
liiivmln-r r.c.
.iHiumo' r ir,
r.hrtiir r 1)
Minh ZV'i
There Is to be addeil to the price
cents per 190 pounds of milk for each
one-tenth point Increase 111 butter fat.
Increase for Other tirades.
The liuiren In lb.-- pries r.f jh.- ether
grades of. milk as determined by the
executive committee of thn Dairymen's
League to-day Is In the same proportion
ns tho Increase In the price for trade H.
which Jacob S. Hrlll. president of l'ougli
quog farms, stated was tho standard
adopted for the Increase In the price for
ull grades of milk.
Milk going Into New York city from
greater distances outside the 100 nilloi
zone will bo sold by the fanners to the
I..IIL- lldfrll.ii,lt.v ..A,.,,,.. !..., tl.tw.n.'l. .
rommls.lowHrsi't in 'cents less
per 100 pounds than the prices fixed for lr , "lends irom tno insults 01 tnreo
milk shipped from within the 100 mile ""llans yesterday inornlnc. Meyer krae
zono to New York. , '". 21. a clerk, of 1M Madison street.
Neither the fanners nor the Dairy- r"" Ft'nt to iMh ,r'lvi ,Iu''l,t:' n
men's League trc;.t with the Hotden nnd "rrlouH condition with two stab wounds
other distributing companies upon tho ' breast.
ipiart basis, and the executive committee According to the story told the police,
was not able to state the exact Increase Kraemer was entering his home when
In tho price per ouart which would te- "be girls ran to him and complained that
suit from the schedule of prices for Italians loafing near by had made
each 100 pounds of milk llMd to-day. 'Insulting remarks to thnn. Kraemer
During the same months last ,n I called two friends from a store and ap-
the farmers received about 4 rents a pro.iched the Italian-, demanding an
uuart for milk, and to-day's schedule of apology. Instead of apologizing, how
prlces will give them an Increaso of ,i'eer. the others drew knives and at
trlllc less than a cent a ipiart. ! lacked him. No duo has been found
I to the Identity of tho assailants.
The l.rnsor Grnvlnir. '
When the agitation for an Increase In
the price of milk was started a few
weeks ago then; were H.OOO farmer'
inembeis of the Dairymen's League, own-'
ing r.'O.WHi cows, but Independent fann
ers lire flocking to the league's standard,
"Wo are having a latge Increase In tho
membership of the league," said Presi
dent Brill to-night, "Letters are coming
in from nil sections from farmers desir
ing admission to membership and re-;
(lucstlug that organizers be sent Into
their sections to organize the farmers
Into local leagues.
"Tho executive committee to-day fixed
tho prices of nil grades of milk to be
sold In New orK city uurlng tne si
. .. ... 1
co'nmencing . -"t ctob, 'r '
Comml-soner V Ho 1 ill, I- do H to
'' l"u "" "
. , , , ,1. i v ... v.t.
100 iiiiee;. iia-ii ... ,l 1.,-.,.... ...... ....
! miuuiemeii now uiiri..LoiH 111 ...-
. At .. ........I..... t...
same as heretofore, except that they
must pay the fanners their price Instead
of telllns the farmers what price they
I shall receive.
and the 1 Dairymen's.
1 no laiin.i
League are only Interested lu securing
a living prlco ror tno tarnicr inr 111s
milk. Our Interest does not go beyond
that. Tho action wo have taken to-day
was taken without ooncern as to tho
prlco to be charged to the consumer, an
that Is a ipitstlun between tho consumer
and the milk distributing company with
which ho deals."
MILKMEN MAY STRIKE.
Wagon Ilrlvera Charge Companies
With Violating Agreement.
Tho milk delivery system of New York
Is llk'iy to be tied up by a strike of 0,000
milk wagon drivers which Is expected to
be called to-morrow or Tuesday. Chair
man Michael C.ishel of tho local council
of the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters declared yesterday that every
thing Is ready for the drivers to walk
out unless tho distributing companies
accede to demands made upon them.
A t,....n.l stiiko was contemnlate.l re-
: . ,, , .. , ..
ceutly, but the companies avoided It by
effecting an agreement satisfactory to
the men. This agreement has been vio
lated, tho men claim, and the companies
are discharging emplojees who are prom
inent union men. Now a general demand
for $t a week Increuse InfSvages has been
Indorsed. Chairman Cashel said yester-
,day that all'other branches of tho union
niti In sympathy anu tne ni.uou team
sters In other lines will support the strlko
to the limit.
It Is nlso planned lo have the grocery
drivers start 11 sympathetic strlko In the
Interest of grocery clerks who recently
walked out demanding higher pay.
DUTCH WRECK GERMAN AERO.
t-tnldlera Shoot Down Monoplane
and Intern Aviator.
Amsterdam, via London, Sept. 9. Ac
cording to the Maastricht -' Souvellrs
a German monoplane, after being lilt
In the wings, and petrol tank by bullets
by Dutch soldiers whllo flying over
Dutch territory, lauded In the Dutch
vlllago of Roosterln. Tho aviator, who
was uninjured, und his machine, were
Interned.
The newspaper saya the aviator prob
ably lost his way while oft a reconnaissance.
1ST, 2D AND 3D AVE. CARMEN STRIKE;
TIEUPS IN BRONX AND WESTCHESTER;
FIGHT TO FINISH AGAINST INTERBORO
DR. BIGGS TO UNDERGO
CANCER OPERATION
State Health Commissioner
Off To-morrow for Mayo Hos
pital at Hochester, Minn.
- ,
Dr Hermann M. Biggs, State Com-'
'"''"loner of Health, will leave ' for
iii.. ... ....... .
;""w"-r, .,unn., on .nonaay 10 unucrgo
" 7,!raii"" r ;ancer ot the stomach
" onemtloiT wIh'"ih. I r
. .l .." .,nH operalloli will be per-
formed the latter part of this week.
, un "'figs has not been In good health
. "T .' nT..1'a't'.uu.1 Iew I'.1""0"" ."
"e operation is looked uton as Indlcat-
1'
arc rx0CtP, i)r m,,., ...mi ... n.r0m.
. . l V ."r. lJlKKS Mill OO BCCOm-
panled by his famllv.
,,r ,n,.u ., . . .. j......
(TraduS
gulshed medical career.
'nJL"s: H??
Hospital. Ho was appointed State ' personal responsibility and freely apply
Health Commissioner about two years the Gt.lden Rule.
aKO- He Is a director of tho Rockefeller "Pedestrians should do their part.
. ...... . . .1ti,v .i,.,.,i.i iu .i.... .,i..
inniiiuiu iur .ueuicui uesrurcn aim a
member and otllcer In half a dozen
prominent medical soclitlcs In this coun-
try and Great Urltaln
CAUGHT SMUGGLING CHINESE.
niTMij), epl. !. .iier a cnase in
a motor loat In lluffalo harbor early
to-day, t'nlted States Insiwctor Samuel
1. Dud ds and an aid arrested William
' Riley and Andrew Thompson on a
charge of attempting to smuggle Chi-
, nese Into the I'nlted States from Can-
i ada. Two Chinese were taken with the
prisoners. Inspector Uodds sa'.d.
Federal authorities lecalled that Itlley
I was Involved In an attempt seven years
ago to bring several boatloads of Chinese
trotn Canada. The boats were caught ,
' in a gale a; the breakwater and several j
Chinese were drowned, llllev served
y served a i
cording to I
ear in the penitentiary, aic
rwierai recorus nere. inspector uouuh
plan nnd lay in wait several hours.
i GIRLS CHAMPION STABBED.
.
Hrc'l-it Tm Wound. From Men
Who lnaallrd Yuans Women.
. ,."'!:n.u,, Interfered to proiv-w
KILLED WALKING IN SLEEP.
Actor I'liiiiges Off Ledge, Thongh
I'ollcrman Wnrna lllm.
Walking in his sleep caused the death
of William Fogarty, an actor, living
at tho Hotel Somerset In West Forty
seventh street, early yesterday. Police
man Werthelmer of the West Forty
seventh street station, passing on hN
beat, saw Fogarty, in white sleeping gar
ments, open tho window of his apart
ment on the seventh floor of the hulldlng
and step on the ledge. The policeman
shouted, but the sleeping man paid no
.1 urn 1 lull. I f
,. landing only 1
w,.rl.mer tc
lttentlon. He stepped off the ledge.
few feet from where
nod.
l..,.rt.. i.n.i 1...... i.,.i .,!..
mo-mlT His wlVe. wlm wic g 'only" 1
a few feet fton, the wln-.ow where her;
husband Jumpetl, knew nothing about It I
lint uwakenetl iv the nolle,..
IlKr.i.tN, via Loiitlon, Stpt, 1". Kaiser
TIP WTTT.TQ WTtlSPQ tWTP ! Wllheltn and King Ferdinand of Bui
1W. JUJJJb MlbSLb bHIP. I KMl ari( (() t,(mfol. ut tlu, 1m,M T,,HtoMlu
Falls on Train Connections and on'
Ilia Trip to Rnropr.
The Rev Newell Dwlght 1 Hills, pas
tor of Plymouth Church. Brooklyn, who
was 10 nave saueti ror Liverpool yes
terday 011 the American liner Phlladcl
. phlii, fulled to mako train connections
1 and misted the ship. One of the passnu
j gers was John Barrett, director general
of the Pan-American t.'nlnn, who was
1 going abroad on business connected with
I the union.
, others on the ship were John I'nmp
bell White, son of Henry White, e-Am- 1
bassador to France, who has been ap-'
pointed secretary to the American Lega-1
'.Ion at Athens; Mrs. Mary R. Spurgeon
und Miss Mary W. Spurgeon. I
Dr.
7,arhrllfn Killed In
Battle.
Hr.iu.iN, Sept. 9 (bv wireless to Sav-
vllle). Dr. Walter Zurhetlon, formerly
an assistant director of tho National As.
tionomlcal Observatory at Santiago.
l ""l " C". """""s re-
I 11,11. 1. .I&.1.I ..u .. .....I. ... .
ceiveu 011 me niiuiencin.
1
I - .
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS.
AS FOLLOWS:
Pages
FIRST General Newi, Auto.
motjilei. Real Ette . . 2
SECOND Sporting, Kenntli . , 8
THIRD -Newi of the Ruorti,
Schooli, Fuhioni, Car
dem. Drama .... 8
FOURTH -Pictorial Magazine . . 8
FIFTH Special Feature Section . 10
SIXTH Editorial, Foreign, Book,
Queriti, Financial, Prob
lemi, Cheat .... 8
Total
54
Rtcitis or ntvuitalert who Jo not n
rere 0 0 that ittthm ulll (onftr a
fotor tn "Tht Sun" ly notifyint the Puh.
licathn Dtfitrtmtnt at onc iy tht phone
(1200 Bttijiitn) tni miulnt ttcllom
Kill h promptly jWayraU If pmlUt.
WOODS ASKS HELP
IN TRAFFIC PATROL
Seeks Cooperation of All When
Force Is Small Dun to
Car Strike.
Calling the nttcntlon of the public to
the unusual heavy tralllc conditions In
. . .. .. ....
ino streets anu naning tnc puuues as
slstance during the time tralllc policemen
"ro 0,1 B,rlko dut'- Commissioner Wood
,
ut Headiiuartcrs yesterday made the fol-
lowing statement:
"The strike has made tts reduce the
"u11 " oern. ycHieniny niui lo-oay, mat
'""'.l nl mov,n "s Smoo,h,' Bs U
""""
. . .
in tho intirest of uii, operators of
norse ..raw,,: shouhi bochuS crupu"
. .titi''. T,
. ....... .... "i,hi' thn A mu iramntni A uunpml inn
crossings.
"i believe that most operators at
vehicles will cordially and sincerely co.
operate. Kxperirncc has shown us. how-
kiy'anV'semshirX
ru "heir'crrsf with wim'naT'Siwifan!
for the safety of other-.
"In order to himlle this class ofi
dri.r properly the situation has been
explained to Chief City .Magistrate Mc
Adoo, who has assured me that offenders
of this das when brought Into Magis
trates' courts will feel the full rigor of
the law."
MEMPHIS DEAD IN WASHINGTON
Military funeral To-mnrrnrr
far
Klr of Warship's Victims.
Washington-, Sept. The hospital
,1,1,, st(la,n arrived at the Washington
ny vani to-dny with the bo,, s of
,. nf n. .i,.,!,,,- ,,f ,h nrinnrrd
1 cruiser Memphis, which was wrecked In
Santo Domingo harbor by a lioplcal
storm.
Five of the dead will be burled at Ar
lington with military honors on Monday.
They are, A. It. Porter of Parkers Land
ing. Penn. : R. J. (julnn of Ilrooklyn,
H. Tonnsend of Wilmington, Del.; L, U
i'roler of Mnrriemille, l'n and ouo tin-
,rt,r5WT-t'mtJ.i
The other dead. ('. W.
Heed. W Copius, A. J. Anderson nnd
W. I.. Planck, will ! taken to their
homes for burial by relatives.
Among tho one bundled sick and in
jured on the Solace are eighty-eight who
weie uiiteil tn me iiti.ti mipmii iit'
for treatment. The list Includes Lieut 4.
L. J. Kerby. '. A. Jones and T. T. Wit
ters, and Lletit.-l'id. L. 11. Moses, who
was a passenger on the Solace.
PANAMA YIELDS TO BRITAIN.
(Inters llrportnllun of Propagandist
of Indian Itrvoll.
ipttial Val.lt ntiV'ilfli tu Tun St X.
Panama. Sept '.. The Government or
Panama has ordered the importation of
II. Priam, whom the British M. ulster ac
cusis of soliciting funds lu Panama to
foment n 1 evolution in India. The Min
ister as-erts Priam addr'sscd a public 1
meeting and di pounced the British iule
In India tis tyrannical, calling 011 all Mast
Indians to aid lu a revolt. He sas
Priam is a Turk and has no right uiub r
the exclusion laws to asylum In Panama.
Priam arrived heie front tne I'nlted
States eight weeks ago. He admit that
he i a propagandist, but assert ho I
in InHi.it, riti.l i.U.t 1m enlllle.l to freetltfl.
of speech, lie lefuse. to tlepart und has ! '' ,tb- older employ, c who have re
engaged lawcrs to light bis case. I "tallied faithful and whatever recruits
. apply for work."
Tht f.illuie of mapy of the union men
VaTCVU Tfl CTT nrnTtTWaTUTl
-Z7 '
lllBBrlan KlB nd , Trince
. .
1 irrnay ni nrsui usrirn,
J litatbiu.irters on the eateru front. An
official statement Issued Here says mat
Ferdinand, tho Clown Prince and the
chief of the Buigar Cabinet already havo
.." nV"'.: .,.,..
t front he plans to go to Sothi to confer
the order "Pour lo Merlte" iiiou the
liulgar and German commanders of the
army that enptund tho RumaiF'un fort
ress of Tutrakan In the liobrudja, no.
cording to tin Rxehango Telegraph Com
pany despatch from Amsterdam,
CITIZEN SAILORS ARE HOME.
Hundred and Fifty Hack I'roni
I Crnllt' on Rnttlealilp Maine.
Sun bronzed from their cruise, 1 r.O
civilian sailors disembarked from the
'battleship Maine at the Bronkln Navy
urd, discharged as physically anil
mentally lit for service lu tho I'tiltcd
States Navy In tlmo of war.
(July half a dozen tiad received any
Injury In burning their new emergency
trade, and the rest were evidently better
conditioned than when they starttil. In
leaving tho men expressed their thanks
to Capt. Taylor, Commander Block,
Lieut. Furquhar and the rest of the
commissioned anil tiDii-ctniimlsslo 1
stuff of tho battleship for tho Instruc
tion of tho cruise.
GRAND CENTRAL IMPROVED.
Quernshoro Transfer I'aaaenarra No
Longer Will Walk tn Street.
New connections between the Grand
Central Terminal, the Grand Central sub
way station and tho Qurcnsrnro sub
way, making It potslblt) for passengers
to reach these points without ascending
to the street, will be opened to-morrow
at noon, the Public Service Commission
announced yesterday.
This ha been effected by lengthening
tho platform of the Queensborn tube
.1 on feet westward from the previous ter
minal on Forty-second street to a point
near the Junction of Park menue nnd
Forty-second street. From this platform
twin elevutors tiscend to a passageway
under tho street connecting Into the Grnnd
central station .ana the Grand Central
subway station. The coat waa 1500,009,
Manhattan, Bronx, Yonkers, Mount
Vernon and New Rochelle
Workers Vote to Stay Out
Until I. R. T. Yields.
NONUNION LIEUTENANT SHOT
Firemen in Power Houses Ordered Out 35,000
Longshoremen Plan Boycott on Traction
Fuel Police Guard Increased
Tkjup of the surface lines
The Bronx and Westchester at
a strike vote the carmen of the
and the First avenue lines ran
pledged themselves to remain OUt during the progress of the
hnttlo linrrnn ni fVio Inrnrhnvmurli nml tho Vow VnrU- W-iilwivc
Oattie UCgUn 00 tne HUerDOrOUgll Untl tile INCW 10IK KUHttUVS
.i. . . ... ... . .....
- r -j - - - - .
Mayor Mitchel and Oscar Straus, chairman of the Public
. . ,
Service Commission, strove to head oft the strike. They met the
union leaders in the Bar Association last night. Before the
conference ended the men of the Second ruul First avenue lines
the blue car men took the situation in their own hands. The
. . . .. . . .
Third avenue men followed a few minutes after this news was
announced.
Four Outside Systems Are Involved.
Tho strike order includer.. In addi
tion to the Manhattan lines, the I'nlcin
line In The Uronx, the Yonkers, Mount
Vornon and New Rochelle trolley sys
tems. AH these lines were allied In the
strlkith.it ended Inst month.
Wiiii.mi 5i. ritsscra'.;!, unlit; or
ganizer, who Is leader of tho tucscnt
strike. Issued a statement last night
in which lie wild tlV light will bo
rouglil to a nnisn. ine general ueiip.
In his opinion, will force the traction
operators tn the union terms.
.strike Ilreukrr' LlriKrnuut Shot,
Tho tnot sei'lou ex" of violence wa
the a-s.iult upon Mkhnel Giannlii, ti
lieutenant of strike bi takers lu the em
ploy of the Intfrlioroiigli, who was -!iot
in tho abdomen at th" car barn. 177th
street and Li Fontaine avenue. The
Bronx
Ills asf.iilam ee.ipud. and lilan-
nini wn temoveil to 1 oidhatn llosiiitil
In a serious condition. He Hie at CD!
Rust P.olth stret, The Bionx.
Charles SchiKiiler. a furrier of 321
Kasl lll'th street, was bit In the face
by a brick whlcn was burled through
the window of an elevated tram fiom .1
roof a it passed sixty-seventh street
The police se.uclied the roofs, but found
no one.
Thomas An-lcro of tlrt Ra-t U'.'th
street. The Bronx, a strike breaker work.
Ing us .1 guard on the elevated, was ar
restee at the Bronx Park station when
Patrolman Zupke found the man had .1
six Inch Iron bolt In his pocket. AlKero
said in the night court that he c.irrlid
the bill for protection, but the .Magis
trate dismissed the cac on the ground
tint the hi tide did not cine under Un
law gov. ruing contented weapons.
Piesldent Shouts of th New York
Railways announced last night that the
green cars will he operated to-day with
out the ue of strike breakers.
"The Use of stt.ke breakers." ho ex
plained, "! one of tho surest w.is of
' inciting lolillce. The C.IIS Will be Mill
I" '" anaiua.'e 01 me aniniMiy e.
'1 ",y TT r V'!!' , 'I7
"ot "be mSo,? ' 'itv''r vh'v'.',!
; J 1 .. . ..i .1.. , 1 . . . .1 V ,1V
,,...1 . ... ......
to rejoin were 11 -.i u 1 1 tt near the car
barn. Threats to kill them wire made,
said Shouts, If they forsook the Amalga
mated. Mechanic lo He Called Ont.
A goieral strike tu the mechanical
trades allbd il rectly with the traction
' lint In nil llkelilioad will be divided
upon ut a meeting of the ottieeis of the
Central Fedt rated I'nloti this afternoon
! Refei emltim have been sent tit hy
the Tide Water Boat men's I'tiion in
anticipation of this order. The Station
ary Circuit 11 -which gathers in the tail
way power house workers already ha
decided in 11 strike, and the Long-dmr
men's I'nlon Is expected to act to-day.
' Samuel tioinper., pusldcnt of tho Alin-r-
. lean Federal Ion of Labor, will preside
; at to-d.o 's meeting,
Th met hanical trades that will be
( called to support the car strike at this
afternoon's nuetlng hive n total mem
beiship of shO.MOii men. Their walkout
would Intllct deep injury imt oiil 011
the traction lines ng.tlnt which their
stiiko Is to be alined but Umn the whole
, clly of New York.
llrnest llolun, secretary of the C. P. I'.,
' said ostcril.i .
"It Is pilniipally designed that all
men In the mechanical departments of
the tr.inlt systems be called on strike
1 and that the power houses bo com-
1 pletely crippled. If necessary other
trades will 1 ailed out also whenever
sympathetic action can he of aid to the
utrikeis.
"Our aim Is to give the strike leaders
Hie personal .aid and advice of Piesldent
Gnnipers nt the result may be quick
ened, A conuiiltten of live, appointed by
tlie C. F. I'., will cooperate with the
strlko leaders lu running the car strike,
ami It will be the business of this com
tnlllcn to .'also funds whenever neces
sary." I'lnn to Cripple I'oivrr llnnir.
Tho main object of attack Is the power
system of the railway lines. The leaders
believe that If this branch could be tin-
paired through luck of ivoikmeu the
opetatlon of tlm Interborough and Hie
"I," trains would come to an instant halt.
In prospect of harm 1efulllng Its
power, thn Interlinrnugli 11 .ve.ir und 11
half ago made arrangements to hitch lis,
eleclrlo lines up to Independent connec
tions. This can bo dono within a space
of twenty minutes. It Is because of Oils
luciiuy ine cuiiro iriiues wrucn mignt no
jot future assistance to tho rallwayArej
became general in Manhattan,
10 o'clock last night, when after
Third avenue, the Second avenue
their cars into the barns
They
nl Vtfrinf- irmlwiM Mnin .ifnns
to walk out, If the confereii''
so de rce
to-day.
In cxpivfitloti of the T ,rd Aenne
strike the police guird late nigh'
weie diMilbiited along the loutes of the
lilies of that .vsteni.
I Fiecbr!ck W. Wlmrnlce, president o
the Tnlid Avenue, .oteid-o n t.m 11 o
1 hi' fulillmcnt of the ngr.einut of Au
I KW. notilleii Atavor .t"i 1 n.m
I appnnt(d Lliidh y M. Gni- .( , fn mci ly
I Secretary of War, as Hie 11m ,ian s aibl
I trator for setilemcui of dliTen ncin with
t the men.
"i ai; ou to b g.d enotmh," wrot
' Whit ridge, "as undeiniite'' of thn eon-
ttact, t have the men nominate ihei
arbitrator forthwith anil also to ll soino
date within the next N.w ilas when. If
the men shall imt have 11 mini Uir
aibilraly;juu.!ii.iUi " J "' d
1.. cot.s!ilerl'c that tlie in , w - 1 t
abrogate t..:it I' O.lract I v . 00
'very car fto n Gettv S.iin to 1 'one
Island or In some o:lnr w;,
Miitcliicnl h I nlon Lender.
l'llrqerald g.i.. out ti . iwlng
tatement linmedl.it ly af i I . sti ,e
li.-came Ofectiv That 1 1.1 ip of till
Urns Is p.itt'if the oflen-.X' f jr iinuie
of organized labor I Hide I , hi ap
peal to .dl to stand b tl on ! It
Is assumed trom this thai 1 ie 11 i.i-ik il
tr.ub's will take ,1,11011 at the inii'tn g or
the Central lVderated Prion t . al'ei
noon :
"The sue Is now i lean . it. ,n I w
.ue pflfectly satl-tle.l with tne s,-nation,
The iitiestlou Is. Shall the -luet men
of (iieater New "irU and i, . 1 1 1 1 tie per-
inmeii me iig.'it 10 organ. .e, me ame
other men and women h ive onti rinnelled
,1111 not inietitreii witli on 1 u
heartless and gicetly tt-.i ' -n
ti.., ,1. ..
pa ' of
1 1. a
'liver 1 'tti.iitjti en- in,.i tWi ug. ,iit tin
I'nlted State and Canada hue tills
privilege, and uhj .hould t ' i- 1 ,111.
ferent In tills gnat ineii.iiol . w ilmut
a violent propst coming t'loio the people,
whose llionel Is beeomlliu- ptrt ,l,il par.
eel of the traction pr. pt i'n- Mil In
fact the tnoiie of the .i me 1 Hint
Un y are t tiileavnrlng tn tln i , cf the
right of ftetsloni .mil org.iii'.ati.m s
Invest, il In tht-e propel 1 lev ,n
gte.lt l-ll r-tl. ll of Use uwt , f th s strlko
forced upon the union, will b m 10 ho
luil'iie by Hie t.ii.i cl. if win h the
are la 1 go portion.
"The violation of agr. ,.,.. , ,, ,
part of thesf traction til new
matter to the people of th f, , , , t,
Words Ut id tint li,. ep I t,, ! p, .
pie of New Y01I; to he.tl out m it t,,i,,
int nt. i:perleiint ha taught tin m that
It Is so Little regard d d tn. have fur
the s.icied ,igi cement , nit n il Into on
August 1; .mil 11 in ie rw r 1 1 1 1 1 1 In Mayor
Mllt'hel ami 1 ii.ili ui.m st-.m ,.f thi
Public Service Coiinnlssii.,, ., 1 wu,
the) have treated .is a s i,ii ot paper
"The ti.nlit unions. 1 it .t1 n e of
(iie.iter New Yolk but of il nMr
1'iillid States ami iVn.nii. .,te ,tcr
esteil lu this light, realizing th.-i If the
fraction li.tensts of th.- ..'., ,ne sue.
ecfill 111 forcing upon the n , 1, tlje In.
dividual cimlrat't it will .-tali' h a prec
edent ami an excuse for line cut porn
Cons tn take .iih.mtage ol' ihl- rne'hod
of dealing vviih their t nploju-
I'len tn llrminleil l.iilinr,
"III tint lntere.-t of th, r gh' of free
assemblage an I the tight of men In or
gaulre wc ask org.uiie, labor ami all
II III il of Illiel t.v anil jiptl.e tn stnnr
by the stieet car 111,11 ,n th s tight, for
if tint traction lutertiu ,ne ,d,l, 1,1 force
upon them tills sMc f nullv .tin il
.igiteinent tint libert.v an,l freedom th.i
all men have cnj!icd In lb. . ,11111 n
lliec it hecanif .1 i. pulill,- I-. 1 nil ingeie!
ami inn be taken ,iw iy fimi then
through this metbotl of coere on ami lu.
t lniltl.it Ion.
"Theie will be accusations and t barge
mailt! of bail f 111I1 against tin street enr
men upon lint other t lu 'he litterbin
otlgll llllil the New iii Rii'w.n- C
p.in , thnt ngreenient li im In en violated
on our p.ilt. To this 1 sa.v we ,11, iw 11
nnd bale ,ten t . n- snnie 1 that ih, n
I ,1 collusion nml an utiib rtatiiling n.
tweeti the traction nteresi of th
great city to i cen tly wtuk In harmony
10 destiny tlm null hi of Hi,, Mt,,.t cat
men, Tho oiilv nin tii-i t thev havt
not declared war openly upon tho mei
of the oilier s sterns, is liee iu-o they I r
been waiting for a more nppoi lun'e 1 me
tn cru-h tho unions of die other sys't m
Hugh Frayue, one of the nrgumvi - ,.
I III' a l til I., s.llil t lele Wll. 1111 inon
,.,,. ntenlon cm Hie part of tlie in,
miuillinte their urliiti.ttnr His rena l
w,i cnnstiucil as an intent on In call
strike regardless of tho mining of u,n
rlsnn
Thn cnnfeiencc for peace wa . held
the Bar Association rnnni. lu Fnr.i
fourth street, but tnoro of thn cunfcicc
wern lu :i watllko mood 1 olberwisi
before they even itpprnachid ihe sul jeei
The Mayor anil usear Straus were 1
hand euily, as were Law) cm Loub ! d
