THE ARIZONA. REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
24 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 10, 1916
24 PAGES
VOL. XXVIL, NO. 114
milk
&
WATERS
INVADE
PHD
yLEMDALE
GRANQANDMARIGDPAGAnALS
CIIBLEIENIDEIlET
FRILSTO REHEVE PRESSURE
Austrians Blow Up Forts Rather Than Surrender Them
Glendale Has Four
Feet of Water in
DoivnTownStreets
Cave Creek's flood waters took a sudden turn late last night and with
in two hours had invaded Phoenix. Fire and police department went into
the northwest section of the city at midnight and began notifyinq the peo
ple, shiftinq tr.n-.e who w --' 'eied in danger and doing what they
could to check the advance of the. W irst flood in many years.
Not since the famous Cuvt ,-k flood twenty years aqo. when the
water was waist deep in the state house grounds, has there been such a
flood in the vallev.
At two o'clock, no material damaqe had been reported, thouqh the
water was advancing down Grand avenue and the Yuma road. At mid
nioht, it had passed the fair grounds and was flowinq swiftly south and
east alonq the streets, filling the literals and backing up against 'the
town ditch, which parallels the Yuma road.
Unless there is a rapid drop in Cave Creek, the water will reach Five
Points by daylight.
At eleven thhty, tho water had
been flowing lu to 15 indies deep
over the J. C. Norton ranch, north of
the fair grounds. The unexpected. ,
break in the Grand and Maricopa
canals had let the water down be-1
tween the old Black Canyon road ami)
the New, and it rapidly spread over
the tit-Ma. It's course seemed to bet
direct for the fair grounds, which
were engulfed at a little after ll:;!n.
Six Points became a "est of oily yel
low water. Prom there, it spread
south and east tnrough the resident
ial section toward Five Foints.
At about this time, the Hlice began
warning people by phone and h'
means of parties of men who drove
through the flooded streeta.
, It hacked up against llitj Santx Fe
tracks ami was turned back direct
Into the city. The town ditch was
holding the flood out of the Capitol
Addition at 1 o'clock.
Glendale Flood Hiqher
At midnight, telephone calls for
help were bein.T received from ma
rooned parties between Phoenix and
(Herniate The latter city repor'ed that
the water had fallen two inches and;
then roe again, and was still rising.
A note of hopefulness was injected
into the moist gloom by a phoned re
port from a zanjern on the Arizona
canal near laterel 16 to the offcot that
Cave Creel;, draining both through
tilendale and toward Phoenix, was
losing its power and volume. -
The break. In tlie Santa.. Fe tracks.;
dug by citiVth"of (TIeiidalo to let
some of the water flow southward,
had widened tinder the erosive action
of the flood to fifteen feet. Although
a torrent was pushing through tho
pap. it did not seem to lower the
flood appreciably.
Sarla Fe freight and passenger
trains were held at Glendale, for the
break in the tracks was too serious
to permit them to proceed.
Trainmen coming in from the north
reported :i party eight motorists
had stopped both a freight and later
n passenger train two miles north
west of I'.card.sley, seeking transport
ation to town. A large machine was
i ngulfed in New Paver, and although
the water had subsided somewha
around it. the mud showed it had re
cently covered it entirely.
Glendale was making its way about
bv means of Improvised rafls. and
the population either roosted on tables
or sloshed around In hit boots.
The ice factor,' went out of com
mission when two feet of water in
vaded its ground floor.
From Dnrtwripht came r.ews that
the flood had reached that point at
1 o'clock. This meant that the water
had pierced the embankment of the
Santa Fe tracks and was pursuing an
almost uninterrupted wav to the Salt
river bed.
In half a dozerr places, th .Santa Fe
line was rendered unsafe in the
opinion of trainmen, ami all traffic
was suspended.
WILL VIGOROUSLY PROTECT TRADE SECRETS ONALLFROflTS
BRYAN ON
HIS
WAY TO ARIZONA
(Special to The Republican)
GLENDALE, Sept. St. Following a
break in the south side of the Ari
7ona canal, the whole town of Glen
dale was flooded bust night to a
depth of four fen. The first water
made itself apparent at 7:4:1, and by
ten minutes after nine, there was not
a t!r spot left in the town. The
sheet of watur extends a mile west
of the town, and a huh' mile east.
Owners of stores in the down town
district, had been looking tor the
flood to come, and through the herok
efforts of their forces, had managed
to move their stocks from the cellars,
to the first floors. It was soon seen
though, after the water started to
come in. that unless tne goods were
placed high'-r. great damage would
result, and counters and boxes were
pressed into use. Little damage wa:
done to the stocks.
Track Is Out
Some relief was gained when a cu;
was made under the Santa Fe track.).
The cutting of the cultett. will prob
ably result in the washing out of the
trucks at this point, but i was neces-
sarv to eive the water some outlet, or
it would have become uangerotisi
high.
A largo theater crowd, emerged
fro mthe olav bouse only to find that
the stree's hid been converted into
livers. Kveryone took it good na
turtdlv. rolled up clothes arid Marten
to wade 0ut. Automobiles were pin
out of commission, and every down
lov.n street has its share of marooned
machines-.
Several store owners saved then
cellars bv building dykes around the
buildings.
The bridge across Lateral No. 1 1
was washed out. and there is a twen-
tv-foot break In lateral No. 17. The
Arizona canal has a big break on the
southern side.
Washout. Hera
The heavy rains
slate ye-teidav and
softened tie ballast
And There
throughout th
the ad befof
oeds on m;i.n
ALBUQUERQUE. M. M.. Sept.
P. William J. Bryan reviewed the
record of democratic performance j
tinder President Wilson before a j
large crowd here this afternoon.
President W ilson bad the advan-
I tage of having been tried, he said.
adding that he was pleased with )
i tne emphasis Charles K. Hughes ;
hau placed upon replating a tried
j rt publican office holder, lie also j
criticized the attitude of Hughes
I on the income tax while governor
1 of New York. Mr. Hryan said be ;
I was taking his vacation. He will i
i begin the campaign f.ctively Sep-
I tember 21. He departed in an I
' automobile for Pelen. X. .!.. to t
! take a train for Tucson, Ariz. I
-
n
MAINE CLOSES
UN WITH
II SPEECHES
1ST NOT USE
INFORMATION
FROM 0. S. Ml
ASKS SUFFRAGISTS
TO SUPPORT HUGHES
quite a
delaying
few m.nor
trains ail
SUCCESSFULLY SHELL TOWN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN. Sept. 9. (via London)
The admiialtv made the following an
nouncement todav: "One of our sub
marines successfully snolled Mangalia
on the itumanian Black Sea coast."
tracks, causing
washouts and
through Arizona
The worst washojt reported so far
oociirrtsi jesterday morning on the
Buckeye branch of the Arizona Last
el n. The high water softened the
road bed and gradually undermine.1
a considerable portion of the track,
re, Hiring several hours' work to re
pair it, and delaying the train about
ihree hours. However, now the track
is again In good condition, and in
sction failed to reveal damage to
any other point.
Another large wa::hout was report
ed yesterday afternoon between
Winkelman and Phoenix. The con
tinued soaking from the rain mad"
the gioumi around the tracks :o soft
that the ties had no support and ,i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PORTLAND, Me., Sept. 9 The stat
campaign closed tonight alter a totaii
of set speeches had been crowded ;
into the final 2 hours, one hundred1
meetings were addressed by men,
whose national prominence assured a
pHckad house. Supplementing this'
unprecedented volume of oratory .
were brass bands, red fire, organized :
cheering and H revival of old lime, ,
torch light parading.
Charles K. Hughes at Rockland, J
t'nited States Senator William K.
I'.orah of Idaho, at August t; former
United States Senator Theodore I'.ur
ton of. Ohio, at Madison, and Medil!
Mccormick, progressive of Chicago, at
liooth I!av Harbor, appeared on the
concluding republican program. I
Prominent men sharing in the dem
icratin wlndup included William C.
Uedfield, secretary of .commerce, at
Gardiner: Franklin I. P.oosevelt. aa
ustart secretary of t tie navy, at East
xirt: Judge John W. Westcott. attor
ney general of New Jersey, who I
nlaced President Wilson in nomina-1
"ion, at Rockland and Hainhrtdge Col- ,
by, former national chairman of t he j
irogresslve party in this city.
Tonight, hoth sides claimed the dec
;lon -the democrats bv a plunillt
0"o iiid the reiiubllcans bv ll.OiKI.
Not before in recent years, has so
determined an effort been made to
make a showing .at the polls, which is
expected to indicate th" political puise
if the nation. Local speakers em
MiHBized state issues and tho person -llties
of candidates, but the big guns
'rom other Mates either have been
rained on Washington or employed
n the defense of the administration
f the onlv democrat to receive tho
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 9. Any proot
that Great Britain pi using trade in
tormatbAi secured from intercepted
neutral mail in her struggle for com
mercial supremacy probably will be
followed by vigorous steps by the
American government to secure
abandonment of the policy.
A statement was made during a
tariff debate in parliament recently by
David 1 loyd George, the Utilise war
necretary, that such Information prop
erly could be put to "any public an. I
national use."
Discussion of the subject brought
out the suggestion that although the
I'helan amendment denying the use of
American nnil. table, telegraph und
express privileges to citizens of for
eign countries interfering with AiiTT
lean mails, was sliiekcn out of the
retaliatory legislation recently passed
by congress, the measure contains
authorizations which might be con
strued as broad enough to allow the
president to retaliate against unfair
use of the censorship.
.Manv officials believe that if it can'
be shown that England has taken an
unfair advantage over American firms
because of legislation passed as a re
sult of information gained illegallt
from the cer.soi ship the president
coald forbid Importation to this coun
try of the products of whatever in
dustries are affected. As the disputed
liberal use of the censorship looked to
tho raising of a tariff wall against
neutral commerce and this wall would
le laid by industries ra'her thin n
individual companies. American retail.
Rtion, it is argued, could be pushed af
far ns desired. Ketaliation will no!
tt senouslv contemplated it is oe-
, lieved. until a thorough investigatior
of Lloyd George's purpose has beer,
mad" and then only if there ar'
.proofs that the trade infoimation act
ually is being pat to the uses h
suggested
No sm orise was felt here today at
the statement of Lord llobert Cecil
liiltish minister of trade, that "!t Is
not likely that Great L'ritain wil
change h'-r blacklist nolle v at the re
ptiest of the United States." official!
did not expect enactment of the re.
Oitaliatorv legislation to le met by ant
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY. N. J., Sept. 9.
A direct appeal to the woman's suf-
i agists of the country to suppoit the
republican candidate for president in
return for the service he has rendered
the oau.-e of eoual right, was made
by Herbert Parsons, republican na
tional committeeman from New York
at the night session of the National
Woman Suffrage convention. When
Ir. Parsons had concluded Dr. Anna
Howard Shaw, v ho presided, rose and
said:
"The one non-partisan thing I can
say is that which ever party brings
us success, of that parly we will not
be unmindful."
Mr. Parsons was one of several
speakers, including Raymond Rollins,
f Chicago, chairman of th last pro
gressive national convention, who
stror.ly urged votes for women.
'I cane from New York to pay
tribute to the women of America, who
are fighting for the greatest issue
before the country today," said Mr.
Parsons. "I have read your resolu
tion that you are non-partisan. I
have observed tiie work of suffragists
New York at elections, and know
that thev arc- not for those who are
atrain-t them. The are non-partisan
one way. but partisan for suffrage."
Mr. Parsons spoke for a few
moments on preparedness and hoped
hat the result in the 12 suffrage
states this autumn would show that
the suffragists stand for that policy.
The convention in Its final business
i to i on a
LOSING HOI
session today adopted a declaration
of principles in which it reiterated its
adherence to the policies of non-partisanship.
Adherence or hostility to
any party, the declaration said, is to
be condemned.
The most significant result of the
recent work of the association, the
declaration says, is that every politi
cal partv has put woman suffrage in
its platform and that every presi
dential candidate has expressed him
self in favor of it.
One of tae resolutions accompany
ing the declaration of principles, all
of which were adopted, felicitates the
suffragists "that for the first time a
president of the I'nited States has
publicly declared his belief in woman
suffrage." Delegates questioned the
accuracy of this statement and asked
if John (Juiney Adams. Abraham
Linclon and Theodore P.oosevelt had
not endorsed suffrage, but the his
torians among the delegates agreed
that the made no such public en-dorserre-n's
whilo they were president.
fHher rosolutoins urged upon the
democratic and republican parties,
that inasmuch as their platforms en
dorse, suffrage, they pass through
congress the federal amendment and
also support suffrage legislation in
the states. The association also urg
ed the passage by congress and tho
states of thorough and comprehensive
corrupt practice acts.
Portland. Oregon, asked that the
fiftieth annual meeting oi the associa
lion be held in that city in 191S.
SIXTTINTO
GUARD TRAIN
TO CHIHUAHUA
(Continued on Page Nine)
ELEVATED STRIKE IN NEW YORK
EXTE15T0 SURFACE LINES
rrtep.ihMcsn A. P. Leased Wire i the stationary' firemen. A program
NEW YORK, Sept. 9 The strike of which culls for a strike of all traction
unionized employes In the Hubway and employes in the metropolitan district,
on the elevated railway lines and on suspension of work on all subway con-
mirface cars of the New York Railways tracts in which the Interborough Rapid
company, which began three da,ys ago, Transit company may be interested,
spread tonight to the car lines of the: and a strike of the longshoremen who
Second Avenue Railway company and
the Third Avenue company. Thene
companies operate virtually all of the
mirface cars in Manhattan and the
P.ronx, and the strike, if successful,
will completely tie up surface car
traffic in the two boroughs.
Tonight the first serious indication
of violence, occurred when Michael
Giannini, 27 years old, a strike-breaker
on the Interborough Hapid Transit
lines, was shot and probably metrtally
wounded by an unidentified assailant.
The police reported minor attempts at
violence during the day and several
arrests were made.
Although officials of the New York
Railways company had promised to
restore normal traffic on their surface
tar lines tonight, the police asserted
at 7:30 p. m. that virtually all the cars
had been sent to the barns. Service
in the subway and on the elevated rail
way lines of the Interbeirough Rapid !
Transit company, however, was about
normal.
Samuel Oompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, is ex
jieoted here from P.oston tomorrow to
take charge of the strike. The move
ment, it was said, will cease to be the
affair of the Amalgamated Association
of Street and Klectrlc Railway Em
ployes and will become the fight of the
American Federation of Labor.
Mr. Gompers will confer with a com
mittee of the Central Federated Union,
representing tho striking street car
men, the Longshoremen's Union, and
handle coal and other supplies will be
aisoiissea.
This may he followed, union officials
asserted, by a suspension of work for
at lea-st 24 hours in all trades aff dated
with the American Federation of Labor
in New York. These trades. It is esti
mated, employ 750,001) workers.
mnonncement of concession bv Great
Hrilain but rather bv a mollification
here and a slight change there till
the whole trade administration tfa'
been softened to remove the most
threatening of America's objections.
ANOTHER TRY AT TREATY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COPF.NHAGF.N, Sept. 9. (Via Ixm-
, linn. toe f;oeiMiiieijL n ill iili-hit
Icctoral vote of the Pine Tiee stale 1)t1(.r attempt to have the treaty for
since Franklin Pierce whs elected lnH (,., f the Danish West Indies to
president in ISS2. the I'nited States agreed to and in-
An eleventh hour development whs tends to submit a bill to the rigsdag
the shifting of the republican's at- j Tuesday based upon the proposal made
lack from the administration's foreign . this week by the conservative party.
Policy In particular to the tarltrs.
over which manv battles have been
waged in this stale. At the opening
nf the campaign r.peakera of the re
publicans notably Theodore Roosevelt,
bitterly assailed the president's con
duct of international affairs. Demo
cratic leaders. Josephus Daniels, sec
ret are of the navy; Newton D. Paker,
ecretary of war; William P.. Wilson,
wcrc'tnry of labor, and Thomas W.
Gregory, tie attorney general, gen
erally stood '"pat" on the accomplish
ment of the administration and knit
-ll'vgys to the front the present pros
perity end their claim that tho pres
ident had kept the country out of war.
Upon his arrival. In th state, Mr.
Hughes added to his demand for the
protection of American lives and
.property, protection for American in
dustries and asserteil that tne latter
were in grave danger under the pres
ent laws from abnormil competition
with Europe- after the war Is ende.l.
Today he launched an attack on the
administration's shipping bill, which
he described as a menace to Ameri
can sMpplnp. Maine always brs been
a protection tdate and' her shipping
interests are great.
There was n disposition in not h
(Continued on Page Ten)
The conservatives suggested that with
the formation of a coalition cabinet, a
IKirliamentary committee be appointed
to examine into the negotiations for
the sale of the Islands and to make a
report thereon within a lilnited time
It was proposed that after the making
of the report a plebesette be held, prob
ably about the middle of October.
o
NO TRACE OF ROBBERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO. Tex., Sept. 9. A military
escort of sixty men was placed today
on a train leaving Juarez for Chihua
hua City by order of General Francisco
Gonzales, as the result of a holdup of
a train by Villistas last Thursday
night near Villa Ahumada. The Vil
listas. who were only a small baud,
did not disturb the passengers, but
merely searched the train for food.
Reports received at the American
army headquarters in Kl Paso today to
he effect that a band of about 300
.Mexican freebooters had been seen at
t point sixty miles below Ojinaga, pre
sumably making their way westward
toward the Santa Clara canyon, where
Villa is now making his headquarters.
Col. Edward Vollbrath, of Bucyrus,
Ohio, commanding the Eighth Ohio
Infantry eticVtmped here, sustained a
roken arm in an automobile accident
this evening. Two cars collided at a
rossing, pitching the officer to the
pavement. His right arm was snapped
above the elbow by the fall. He re
used to go to the base hospital and re
turned to his camp for duty with bis
arm in splints.
Hughes Says Shipping Bill
Directed Against Industry
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ROCKLAND, Me., Sept. 9. Charles
E. Hughes ended his ' campaign in
Maine here tonight after a whirlwind
trip from Jtangor, during which he
spoke briefly in Beveral towns. To his
assaults on the administration he ad
ded a bitter attack on the shipping bill,
characterizing it as being directed
against the shipping interests of the
nation, "a direct blow at the shipping
industry of Maine," "a measure to meet
a temporary exigency, almost ludic
rous," and "a menace to the shipping
Interests of our country."
"It is a direct blow at the shipping
Interests of the United States. Why
mmuiu loreign-ount ships acquire, as
provided in this act, admission to the
privileges of coastwise trade, reversing
I
the historic policy of this country for
the protection of its own shipping in
terests'? It Is proposed that rates be
regulated. If rates are exhorbitant
they can be controlled. Monopoly can
be H evented. Let us correct any pos
sible abuses we have in this country,
but let us have opportunities for
American enterprise to succeed.
"I sec no reason for bringing the gov
ernment as a competitor into this In
dustry. I see no reason for destroy
ing for that is what it would mean
as it seems to me, if this measure were
carried out nccording to its terms the
shipping industry of this country.
"The one thing that we cannot af
ford to do is to abandon American in
terests to destructive competition,
either in shipbuilding or ship owning,
or ship operating, or in any other way."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MARTINS FERRY. Ohio, Sept. 9
No trace has been found up to latr
tonight of the two men who toda
held up an automobile in a lonely
spot near this city, shot and killer1
S. Iee Rankin, superintendent and
paymaster of the Youghiogheny and
Ohio Coal Company, and fled wit!
fK,070, which thev took from Rankin
Mrs. Farl P.rown. of Glenns Run
driving a horse and buggy through
the narrow cut stopped thirty feet
trom the automobile and was an eve
witness of the robbery. She furnish
ed the police with a description of thf
robbers and declared thev looked like
foreigners between 30 and 85 years old.
Dr. Murphy Dead
Field Hospital in
English Hands
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Sept. 9. The American
flag which had been flying for siy
months lust a few miles back of the
liritlsh fighting lino "Some Where In
France"' has been hauled down. It
had marked the large general fiel
hospital of the Rritish expeditionary
force, presided over by an American
staff of doctors and nurses the Chi
cngo Medical Unit. This unit was
organized bv Dr. J. B. Murphy, th
Chicago surgeon who died a few
weeks nsjo.
There was some thought of con
tinning the unit, notwithstanding Dr.
Murphy's death, but it was decided
to disband. A few days ago tho bos
uital was turned over to an English
staff The unit won the royal Red
Cross medal and twice was "men
tinned in dispatches" for effective
work.
GERMANS ADMIT
ALLIES MAKING
S01E SUCCESS
Twelve Days Armistice
MEXICO CITY. Sept. 9. General
tblo Gonzales, it Is understood, has
concluded negotiations for a twelve
lays armistice with General Dominguez
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITH THE GERMAN ARMY ON
THE r.AUPAUME Front in France,
Sept 7; (via P.etrlin to London. Seyt.
in.) German officers with whom The
Associated Press correspondent con
versed during the present three day's
visit to this front, admit freeily that
the Anglo-French armides have gain
ed successes in their Somme offen
sive and that it Is " not impossible
that they will crush back the Ger
man front a few more miles in spots,
by a continuation of the stupendous
hammering with artillery and human
flesh But they declare that these
successes are without effect on the
ultimate result of the war.
On the other hand, they express
themselves as convinced that the
German army is enormously super
ior to the hastily risen British levies.
The French army they consider well
officered and well trained.
The artillery preparation for the
great allied attack on Sunday and
Monday is described as the most
stupendous of the campaign On the
hills for four or five miles behind the
front it was necessary to shout at
the top of the voice in order to con
duct .a conversation.
Of the detailed movements of the
offensive it is -lifrienlt to form n-n
estimate, but the view is held here'
that the French has attacked with
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
British troops have been engaged in
desperate fighting along a three and
one-half mile front on the Somme, ex
tending from High wood to Deuze
wood and have captured Ginchv and all
the ground between Ginchv and Leuze
wood. On a front of more than a
quarter mile, the British gained 300
yards east of High wood, and north
east of Pozieres captured 600 yards of
German trenches. German casualties,
according to the British were extreme
ly heavy.
Likewise, the Ffench. forcing the
attack in the Verdun sector, captured
a whole section of German trenches
east of Fleury.
t lghting on three fronts, the Ru
manians have dealt hard blows at the
armies of the central powers. In the
southeastern part of Rumania. Ru
manian troops and Russian troops
have driven the Bulgarians from the
fortified town of Bazardjik. The Bul
garians also were forced to evacuate
another town in Dobrudja.
in northern Transylvania, the Ru
manians have occupied Ola Toplitza
and a number of other towns. Buchar
est records the repulse of an Austrian
attack south of Mehada on the Danube.
The fall of Halicz. southeast of Lem
berg, in Galicia appears imminent.
Austrians are reported to be blowing
up the forts in Halicz and Russians
are said to have occupied some of
them. . It is unofficially reported that
the Russians on the left bank of the
Dniester are bombarding the retreat
ing Austrians.
Russians in the Carpathians are
pressing closer to Hungary. Berlin
admits a retirement northwest of Ka
pul and this may mean Russians again
have entered Hungary. Petrograd
says the Russians have stormed
heights south of Baranoff and have
captured 500 prisoners.
Turkish troops are aiding Attstro
Gerrnan forces around Halicz, and in
the Carpathians. Violent fighting con
tinues between the Zlota Lipa and the
Dniester below Halicz. Berlin records
the driving out of Russian detach
ments from German trenches and the
capture by the Turks of 1,000 Rus
sians. Petrograd says Austro-German
attacks were repulsed in this region
and that stubborn fighting continues.
The French war office says 7.700
Germans have been captured since
September 3.
Berlin reports the failure of attacks
against German-Bulgarian lines in
Southeastern Rumania.
West of Lake Ostrovo. the Serbians,
after a violent engagement, captured a
height. On the rest of the front, only
artillery engagements have taken
place.
In an attack on the Trentino. Aus
trian forces broke through the Italian
trenches, but a counter-attack, Rome
says, recovered a great part of the
lost ground. An Austrian attack in
the Tofana zone was repulsed by Italians.
(Continued on Page Two;
VEnTPARTSUFlSCONSIII
INVADED BV PROHIBITIONISTS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
REEDSBURG, Wis., Sept. 9. Some
very wet sections of lWsconsin were
nvaded today bv the coast to coast
prohibition special campaign train,
hut In all of them the speakers re-
elved friendly receptions. They left
:ere late tonight for Minneapolis
where they will spend Sunday.
Only two slight "wet" demonstra
tions occurred during the day. At
Milwaukee man in passing the plal
orm from which Dr. Ira l.andrith.
he vice presidential candidate was
ipeakiiig, raised a can of beer and
inked the speaker to have some. He
'id it in such a low voice, however,
'hat few persons noticed it and J-rfind.
ith paid no heed to the interruption.
Again at Madison four young men
.lightly interrupted Landrith bv leav
ng tho meeting, showing disapproval
and later honked their automobik-
horn.
President Wilson's remarks at At-
'antic City last night were commented
ipon frankly by both J. Frank Hanly
he party's candidate for president.
ind Ijindvith during the day. Hanly
'aid that the president had fallen Into
Ine with the suffragists and thereby
'tilled suffrage ns an issue. landrith
vsscrted that If the prohibitionists
nad been as threatening in their de
nanus upon- the two big parties ns
he mffragistR were, both would have
written drv planks into their fiatform
ontr ago.
"President AVilsnn has now told the
uiffragists in their own convention
mid Ijiudrith, "that no matter what
restrictions were made bv his conven
tion, he fights with the women. Who,
that can think two thoughts the same
day, doubts that both parties would
be sitting on the water wagon singing
like Carrie Nation if the friends of
prohibition had united in the same
threatening demand."
Hanly charged Charles . fair-
banks, republican vice presidential
noniii.ee, with attacking liquor in lo
ronto and then refusing to sign a
remonstrance against liquor in his
own ward.
An Important Phase
PETROGRAD. Sept. 9. (Via Lon
don.) The desperate fighting develop
ing around Halicz and along a 25-mile
front northward, as far as the source
of the Zlota Lipa, represents one of the
most important phases of the campaign
against Lemberg.
Gradually driven back from its stub
bornly defended position, General
Count von Bothmer's army in the last
ten days has had to retire five miles
westward from the Zlota Lipa line to
positions along the Gnila Lipa and its
tributary, the Narayuvka. The Aus
trian retirement left Halicz in a crit
ical position. It was surrounded on
three sides and was saved from imme
diate capitulation only by the excellent
natural defense afforded by the high
right bank of the Dniester, on which it
is located.
According to some reports the rail
way station of Halicz, on the left bank
of the river opposite the town, has
fallen into Russian hands. But the
Russians look for a hard struggle be
fore they can force the Dniester and
take Halicz itself. The importance of
such a stroke was demonstrated in
August, 1914, when, during the first
Russian advance in Galicia the Aus
trian loss of Halicz and defeat on the
Gnila Lipa soon brought the surrender
of Lemberg. Austrians now, however,
are aided by Germans and Turks, hav
ing greatly improved the fortifications
defending the approach to the city,
presumably can offer a much stronger
(Continued on Page Two
American Commissioners
Seeking Plan For Peace
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
NEW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 9.
American members of the joint com
mission considering relations lietween
the United iStates and Mexico are
fin ling some difficulty in devising a
satisfactory plan to insure peace
along the international boundary. The
full commission was not in session
tonight but Secretary Lane and Judge
Gray, of the American commission
decided to summon expert military
judgment to their assistance. For
that purpose, they asked that Major
General Tasker II. Bliss, assistant
chief of staff of the army, be sent to
New London to confer with them. Ho
is expe"ted to arrive Monday when
the commission resumes its sittings.
The commission has not attempted
to go beyond the immediate problem
of the border. It is indicated that a
comprehensive scheme is being sought
under which each section of the line
will be treated in the way best suited
to its physical peculiarities. It Is in
this connection that General Bliss'
opinion will be sought. The wider
scope of the commission sought by
th Washington government will be
reached later
It was stated authoritatively today
that the subject of possible loans to
the Carranza government had not
been mentioned and that there was
nothing to indicate such a project
would come up.
It is expected long sessions will be
held every day next week and that
a border plan will have been virtually
completed in that time, ready for sub
mission to the Washington and Mex- .
ico City governments for ratification.
