is
(Tribune.
mil-
THIRTIETH YEAR.
NORTH PLATTE, NEB,, JANUARY 14, 1916.
No. 104.
t
t
FlltST NATIONAL HANK IIUI'S
ADJOINING JIUltKE lMtOl'MtTl'.
The annual meeting of tho stock
lioltlers of the First National Bank
was held Tuesday afternoon and tho
former directors as well as former
officers of the institution were re
elected. At this meeting deflnlto action was
taken on a proposition that had been
under consideration for somo time,
namely, tho purchase of tho Burke
building which ndjoliiH .the bank
building on the north. This property
was purchased Tuesday, tho sale being
made through Bratt & Goodman.
The acquisition of this property
means that beforo'tho end of tho pres
ent year tho First National will have
a banking room commensurate with
its present and future needs, for It is
tho intention to remodel both build
ings and have quarters Just double
those of tho present. "Within sixty
days architects, wlio specialize on
ba-k buildings, will bo hero to look
over tho buildings, learn the needs
of the Institution, formulate plans for
tho remodeling and present them to
the bank officers for approval.
"When the present bank building
was erected twenty-five years ago, it
was adequate for tho needs at that $.
nme. Not so, now, however, for the, ?20 00 Ladlo. Coats now $9 50
business of tho Institution has since rr,TTR pAotTTnN mmp
more than trebled and there has beenj xutu 1 AamuN &nui-
no lncrenso in working space. It is Tho dramatic club of the Yeoman
apparent to all that tho employes arCjlodgo has In course of preparation a
handicapped by cramped working, play that will bo given before long,
space; and that customers do not al- Tho title of the production will be
ways have the privacy in the transac-' "Her Gloves." The cast selected in
tlon of their business that they desire. sures an excellent rendition.
WlVh eJV KpCHnnni8hP romnvPd'l Tlie county commissioners have
While a t tW? tta? ln SCSSi0n 'tMs amon
w ? nrni.itpM rnnv nvnlvn In othcr transaction liave allowed a
,? $t&M?KlnZ of hundred claims principally
to predict that the plans will call for ths,? ad dlstrlcte. The- pro
one possessing every modern conven- ceedings will be published Tuesday,
ienco and facility for the transaction j The billiard tournament nt tho Elks'
of business, every accommodation for club is progressing rather slowly,
the customer both for his personal only a few of tho opposing players
comfort and the safe-guarding of his ; having so far run their scores'. Stew
securities, and that It will not only, arcl Smith will begin prodding tho pro
be for tho needs of today but for the crastinatlng players tho early part of
demands of the future. next week.
A questlo71hat0is"7o7 perturbing' JJ iShl?eara"" Slllc
some people Is whether or not a sue- S("s Monduj Morning.
tssor to Commissioner Herming- Clty Engineer McNaimara, of this
ausen is to bo elected this fall. Un- city( wlu be one of thc speakers at tho
-1-r the law passed two years ago, Mr. convenu0n of tho Nebraska League of
Hermlnghausen became, a hold-over, Municipalities which will be held in
as did also Commissioner White. The Kearney February 9th and 10th. Mr.
term of the latter expires next Jan- McNamara's address will be on street
uary and his successor must be elect- paving and road improvement,
oil tills fnll. Tf TTermincrhiiiiSP.n's r .
term also expires there will bo two' $7-50 all Silk Kimottas, Remodeling
commissioners to elect, while tho law Sale Price $3.50.
really provides for the election of but THE FASHION SHOP,
one. J "A Pair of Sixes" was presented to
Miss Flo Stamp expects to leave a large audience at tho Keith lust ev
shortly for Kansas City where she ening and proved an exceptionally
will visit her sister Mrs. Ross Kessler. clever and laughable play. Each one
Mr. and Mrs. Gus Stegman returned in the cast was good, Oscar Flgman
yesterday from a pleasant visit of two appearing at his best. The music by
weeks in Iowa with relatives. Miss the orchestra was a feature of the cv
Ella, who accompanied them, will re- ening.
main for some time. , It lg probable that the frame build-
Dr. F. J. Wurtele, who spent the ,ng occupie(i yy the Brodbcck & Son
past week in Rochester, Minn., with ,neat marnet will be removed next
Mr. E. F. Seebergor at the Mayo Bros. sprlnK ami a brick building erected,
hospital, is expected to return .tomor- TUlg bullding i,!ls not been condemn
row. j e,l uy the fire commissioner by rea-
Tho Leader's lllg Clearance Sale son of the contemplated removal with
Marts Hominy Horning. j in the next few months.
The new electric lighting system Regular $3.50 Wool Skirts, in all
at tho lbcal Lincoln Highway garage shades, and every one of them this
was put into commission for ,tho first! fall's model, are now going at $1.98 at
time Tuesday night. Owing to tho BLOCK'S Mid-Winter Clean Sweep
non-arrival of the husky engine or- Sale:
dered, a smaller ono was lmctieu up
for temporary service. Quito natural
ly, Manager-Hoatson and his force are
somewhat elated at tho change to a
modern, more convenient and safer
lighting' system. Sutherland Free
Lance.
Mrs. Harry Lawson formerly of this
city, has returned here to make her
home, Mr. Lawson having resumed
rharge of Harry's Shoo Shop.
TSk TP &W ,3
mew miects
We are showing an extremely large line of New York Mid-Winter styles, such
as Havana Brown, Silk Velours, Blue and Bronze Boots, in Cypsy patterns;
Spanish boots, Napoleon boots, and all the new Military lace boots. All sizes
and widths. Our prices are
CITY AND COUNTY NEWS.
Cakes, pies, doughnuts, baked beans,
etc., for sale in the Howe & Maloney
window tomorrow by the Tilllkum
Girls.
The domestic science department of
the Twentieth Century club will meet
with Mrs. M. E. Scott Moiday after
noon. Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Jeter returned
Wednesday from California whorothey
visited their daughter. Mr JetoV had
been absent a month, Ills wife a some
what longer period.
A wire received from Mrs. B. F.
Seeborger at Rochester, Minn., last
evening announced that Mr. Seeborger
was considered out of danger follow
ing tlio operation Monday.
At a meeting of the Order of Eastern
Star last ovening seven now members
wero initiated and Inter a suppcr'was
served the members by Mrs. James
Hart at the Gem confectionery.
Trains from tho east this morning
wero not quite so late as yesterday
and "Wednesday, No. 13 arriving at
9:30 and No. 19 at 11:00. Tho "sand
hill flyer waited for the arrival of No,
petition is bolnc circulated for a
division of Hlnman precinct and the
creation of a now precinct. At pres
ent voters residing in Graceland ad
dition and other territory just out
side the city limits are required to go
to tho Baker school houso to vote. Tho
distance Is about four miles, and is so
great that it practically disfranchises
those voters. Tills fault should in
somo way be corrected.
and
tfm CUSTOM
SPECIALSMen's 4 buckle 1st quality Arctics $2.23.
Same in 1 buckle $1.45.
HARRY'S SHOE SHO
FIRST DOOR SOUTH
The Sale That You Have Waited For
The Sale that sets the standard of Bargains in Lincoln County, No Ordinary Sale but an absolute straight
Reduction of 20 per cent, 25 per cent, 33 per cent, 50 per cent, on everything in the stock, nothing Reserved
all go on sale that
v The Barker-Haycock Co.
The Barker-Haycock Co. of Denver, have undertaken the clearance of the stock. You all know Mr.
Barker, it's the third time Jhc has come here to give the people Bargains and at this sale, notwithstanding the
fact that all merchandise is much higher and scarcer, yet the Bargains will be bigger and better than ever
IF
V
Store Closed Today,
for details.
CITY AND COUNTY NEWS.
Wanted Girl for general house
work. Mrs. J. S. Simms, Phono 38.
Tho Club Nevita wil bo cntortalned
by Mrs. Ella Huxoll Wednesday after
noon. Mrs. Herman LcDioyt will entertain
tho Catholic ladies at her homo Thurs
day afternoon.
Mrs. John Bratt, who has been vis
iting Omaha relatives for two weeks,
will return this evening.
The Lender's Big Clearance Sale
Starts Monday Horning.
Harry York will leave Sunday for
Omaha where ho expects to transact
business for a week or longer.
iMiss Vaunita Hayes has been off
duty at the local telephone office for
several lays on account of illness.
Herman Sluder, who was called to
Grand Island recently by tho illness
of a relative, has returned.
C. M. Trotter has accepted tho agen
cy for the Studebaker automobiles and
will receive a carload within the next
week.
Mrs. N. E. Buckley, of Omaha, is ex
pected hero this evening to visit her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Bratt, for
a short time.
George troup, of tho Payno Invest
ment Co., of Omaha, formerly of this
city, arrived here this morning to
spend a fow days.
Mrs. ndrow Yost is enjoying a visit
from her sisters, Miss Carrio Aboo and
Mrs. E. R. Nutter, of Mankotn, Kans.,
who arrived a few days ago.
Miss Elsio Langford, who has been
visiting her slstor Mrs. Fred Barrett
in Salt Lake City for several weeks,
will return homo tho ilrst of next
week.
The general meeting of tho Twenti
eth Century club was called off Tues
day ovening on account of tho storm.
It will bo held somo ovening in tho
near future.
inter
GRADES $3.46
OF KEITH THEATRE
STARTS MONDAY
inter
busy Clerks are now arranging the stock and marking down prices. See big circular
JULIUS PIZER, Prop.
Tho woman or miss who Is yet to
buy her winter coat, dress, Bklrt or
furs cannot afford to miss tho big
Mid-Winter Clean Sweep Salo now
going on at BLOCK'S.
A dance and box social will bo giv
en by the Knights of Columbus as a
benefit for tho now Catholic school
building at tho Masonic hall Wednes
day evening, January 19th. Dance
tickets fifty cents.
Tlio Lender's Big Clearance Sale
Sturls Holiday Homing.
rVhn VnvnHv liYiiir rnlnrf nlnmonf itn.
" i
poned on account of tho late arrival
of the train on which tho members of
tlui company were passengors. This
was one of tho numbors of tho lec
ture course.
Weather forecast for North Platto
and vAclnlty: Increasing cloudiness
and warmer tonight and Saturday, with:
probably snow tonight; Saturday!
snow. Highest temperature yesterday
5, a year ago 40; lowest last night 0, 1
a year ago 14. I
200 Dresses In wool or silk mater-'
luls, somo fur or braid trimmed, nowi
going nt loss than Half Price during
tills great mhHwlntor clean sweep
sale now In full swing at BLOCK'S, j
Union Pacific ice Iioubcs Nos. 1 and
2 are being filled with ico from Lara-I
into for tho uso of passenger trains.!
The houses have a capacity of 15,000
tons and fourteen cars arrlvo hero
dally. For this work fifty extra men
are employed.
: :o::
Christian Church Notes
Tho regular blblo school and morn
ing services will bo conducted in the
court houso Sundny a. m. at tho usual
hour, 9:45. Mr. Knowles will preach'
at 11:00 a. m.
Tho evening preaching services will
be conducted in the Kolth theatre
Sunday. This will bo tho last timo
for four weeks that tho pastor will bo
hero. Everybody boost for a largo at
tendance nt all services. Now Is tho,
timo for concerted effort. Wil you be
steadfast?
Footwear
I
Seller
earance
EADE
Ten Thousand
School Children
Where is the Boy
or girl who would not appreciate the pos
session of a steadily growing bank account?
Besides developing habits of Thrift, of value
to-them in later life, it will provide each
one with the money of his very own to spend
lor the many things every young person de
sires. The Thrift Christmas Club
offers young people opportunities for -saving
in n way that has never before been pos
sible. There are sixteen easy plans in this Club,
any one of which will mean success to those
adopting them. Accounts may be started
with as little as one cent. The small week
ly deposits can be easily kept up by anyone.
LUGE YOUR CHILDREN TO SAVE
START A THRIFT ACCOUNT FOR THEM
Til E Y WILL KEEP IT GROWING
CAHRS ISSUER EVERY DAY
Mcdonald state
Iff M M
jffli ib i iu u hi
ME)! SAVINGS CtAJE3s7
TRADE MAHK
HEALTH HINTS
In case of poisoning. First send for a physician; second
duce vomiting by tickling throat with leather or finger
lots of water, or strong mustard and water; swallow-sweclM
or white of egg. Acids are antidotes for alkalies and vice verJn
in the city of Los Angeles now have money
in the Banks.
One boy has saved nearly $1200 during tho
past six years, by laying away regularly the
small sums he received each week, and in
vesting his money" properly.
ANK
NORTH PLATTE,
NEBRASKA.
$)
are discovered every
Day. We keep abreast
with the Progress of Sci
once and our Stock contains
some of thc very newest
Drugs and Sundries. Besides
wo put Brains into our work,
HonestyLinto our Material
and keep Faith with our
Customers. "If it's a Drug
we have it or we'll make it."
J. H. STONE
ifl
ASK FOR TRADING STAMPS
