What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
- VOLUME XXII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY, JANUARY 14. 1916.
NUMBER 47.
Unusual Storm
Sweeps All Islands
House Washed Away At Olowalu
Roads Blocked by Water and
Washouts Damage Light.
Torrential downpours of rain, high
Bcas that Interfered seriously with
shipping, and fierce winds in some
sections, together with thunder and
lightning of unusual violence, were
Borne of the features of one of the
most severe storms on record, that
swept these islands during the latter
part of last and the first of this week.
All parts of the Territory Buffered,
and Maui came in for its full share.
The rain which began on Friday night
continued almost incessantly until
Tuesday, and in many places the pre
cipitation was unprecedented.
During Saturday and Sunday travel
was interrupted in most sections of
this island. The Lahaina road was
Impassable for three days to vehicle
trafllc, owing to the flooding of the
flats between Olowalu and the foot
of the pall, and by a washout some
20 feet wide and about 10 feet deep
near the Olowalu schoolhouse.
Water covered the road between
Kahului and Pala during Sunday and
Monday, in places to such a depth
that automobiles were unable to
traverse them. Makawao was cut off
by torrents which flooded the roads
In a number of places.
The Claudine from Honolulu was
unable to land passengers or freight
at Kahului on Saturday, and mails
were carried around to Lahaina
where they were later brought over
land by automobiles and wagons
which transferred their loads at im
passable places. Although the Claud
ine returned to Kahului and re
mained outside until Sunday, It was
found Impossible to effect a landing
on account of the great seas which
swept Into the harbor, and the ves
sel returned to Honolulu. The American-Hawaiian
freighter Minnesotan.
which had been taking on sugar at
Kahului earlier in the week, was com
'pelled to put to sea on Wednesday,
and although an attempt was made
to return later, was again obliged to
seek refuge outside the breakwater.
The waves at Kahului ran so high
that a great quantity of stones were
carried upon the beach road, blocking
traffic a number of times before they
could be cleared off by the prison
gang.
Hana Wharf Wrecked.
The wharf at Hana was partially
wrecked by the terriflic waves which
rolled into the harbor. It is reported
that the sea was probably higher than
had ever been known before at that
point However, but little other dam
. age was done save to the wharf, at
Uiat end of the island. A rainfall of
over 8 inches was recorded there,
lao Bridge Goes Out.
The bridge in lao valley, just below
the Field place was carried out, and
considerable damage was done to gar
dens along the stream. The cost of
replacing the bridge will amount to
$1000 or 11500. Below the Wailuku
nyil the water flooded a number of
houses and did some damage. E. A.
Kreuger lost quite a number of chick'
ens which were swept away by the
flood.
Tremendous Rainfall.
The rainfall at Wailuku last Satur
day, as - recorded by Brother Frank,
representative of the weather bureau,
was 4.02 inches, and for the week
ending on Tuesday of this week, 7.97
inches At Waihee nearly nine inches
fell.
In the Lahaina district records were
broken. At Olowalu mill 17.2 inches
of rain fell between 8 o'clock on Fri
day night and the following Monday
morning. At Honolua ranch about 18
inches fell. At Hana there was 8.89
inches. At Haiku a total of 7.11
inches was recorded
' Family Has Narrow Escape.
The terrific rains In the mountains
. back of Olowalu washed out he
flume supplying water to the generat
ing plant of the Olowalu Company,
' and as a consequence the plantation
, has been without light ever since,
- and the mill has been compelled to
suspend grinding. The damage will
"probably be repaired today or tomor
row. ,
The house of Nahooikalkl, the ditch
tender of Olowalu, was washed away
by the torrent on Saturday evening,
aand the family had barely time to
escape with their lives, bo suddenly
did the water rise.
Damage Comparatively Light.
In spite of the severity of the storm
the damage appears to have been com
paratively light on this island. Coun-
ty Engineer Cox states that the coun
ty got off comparatively easy in the
matter of damage, the greatest prob-
.ably being the washing out of the lao
bridge an d the washout on the La
haina road. The roads were not ser
iously injured in other places. The
wind uprooted a good man y trees at
different points, and some work was
required to clear these from the roads
across which they had fallen.
On Other Islands.
The bay at Hilo was so rough that
the Matsonia was obliged to iut to
sea, as was also the tanker Lansing,
and even on Tuesday the sea was
Btill considered too rough to permit
the Great Northern to approach the
wharf at the Crescent City. On Oahu
Vincent Sued For
$10,000 Damages
Japanese Cited For Contempt New
Phases in Now Celebrated Yip Lan
Case End Nowhere In Sight.
As an outgrowth of the celebrated
Yip Lan case a suit was instituted
in (he Second circuit court yesterday
by Toyosakl Kiyamoto against Enos
Vincent for $10,000 damages. The
complaint alleges that Vincent, who
was attorney for the Yip Lan con
tingent in the Kula leasehold contro
versy, unlawfully tried to take pos
session of the property by force, with
the aid of nine Chinese, and that he
broke down the door to the house in
which the petitioner was living, and
caused him to be roughly handled.
The incident in question was the
attempt of the Yip Lan contestants
to take possession of the property,
following a decree of the court in
the matter. Another phase of the
same controversy was the citing for
contempt of Toyosakl Kiyamoto, it
being charged that he had harvested
some of the crops upon the land in
question, contrary to the court's in
junction A motion of Kiyamoto's at
torney, Eugene Murphy, to quash,
was denied by Judge Edings yester
day, and the case has been continued
till next Wednesday. Following the
injunction granted by Judge Edings,
Pia Cockett was appointed administra
tor of the property, with instructions
to care for such crops as might need
attention. Kiyamoto is charged with
having harvested some of these with
out Cockett's knowledge.
Z-
Noted Sportsman Likes
Maui Game Fishing
F. K. Burnham, a prominent sports
man of Martinez, California, who ar
rived on Maui on Wednesday evening,
to try the game fishing of Maui
waters, got his first strike yesterday
morning, off Molokini, where he spent
several hours with H. Gooding Field.
Although a heavy rain storm fright
ened the .Japanese Bampan man into
Insisting on running for shelter, with
in two hours after the fishing grounds
were reached Mr. Burnham was amply
satisfied that Maui fishing had not
been overrated. As a result of the
short trip he and Mr. Field brought
home two 4-foot dolphin and a G-foot
ono. and a number of smaller fish, to
taling about 80 pounds in all, besides
the head of a big aki. This was all
that the anglers were able to save
from the greedy jaws of a big shark
which followed the hooked fish right
up to the gunwale of the boat.
Mr. Burnham is accompanied by his
wife, and is stopping at the Maui Ho
tel. Both he and Mrs. Burnham have
enviable reputations as big game
hunters. They have hunted and fished
practically all over North America,
and but recently spent some weeks in
one of the most remote sections of
the Canadian Rockies hunting grizzly
bear. Mr. Burnham is also the owner
of the famous Beries of "Dixie" motor
speed boats, which made such mar
velous records a few years ago. He
is particularly interested in game fish
ing, however, and is out again today
to try his luck. It is his expressed
intention to send for his big $11,000
Italian motor car, which he left in Ho
nolulu, and to spend some time on
Maui.
Promotionists Will
Arrive Here Tonight
It has been arranged for the Pro
motion Committee members to meet
with Maul citizens, at the Wailuku
court house, at 2 o'clock, tomorrow
afternoon. Everybody "interested in
promotion work in any phase, is urged
to be present.
According to last reports from Ho
nolulu, the full membership of the
Hawaii Promotion Committee will ar
rive tonight for its first meeting on
this island. L. A. Thurston, who is
in Hilo, and G. H. Vicars, the Hawaii
member, are expected to arrive by the
Mauna Kea, while E. A. Iierndt
chairman, George Angus, A. F Wall
Ben Hollinger, Ed Towse, D. P. It.
Isenberg, and Secretary A. I'. Taylor
will come up on the Claudine. All
will land at Lahaina and come to Wai
luku tomorrow morning.
It is planned to have the members
make the ascent of Haleakala this af
ternoon or tomorrow, under the guid
ance of W. O. Aiken, the Maul mem
ber of the committee, and a meeting
with Wailuku citizens will probably
with Wailuku citizens will be held
tomorrow afternoon. It is planned to
give a dinner on Monday evening at
the Maui Hotel before the party
leaves for Lahaina to take the Mauna
Kea back to Honolulu.
the flood did much damage in Hono-
lulu and the wind unroofed a number
of houses. On Kauai the new con-
crete piered wharf at Nawiliwili was
partly destroyed.
Big Row May Come
Over County Policy
Makawao Waterworks Again In Storm
Center County Engineer May Re
sign Or Get Fired.
Beneath the more or less placid sur
face of routine business of the board
of supervisors this week, there is
every indication that things are siz
zling, and that an eruption of some
sort Is due before the pressure can
bo relieved.
When the expected eruption is over
the county may or may not have a
county engineer.
It may or may not have adopted
a progressive policy with regard to
the management of the Makawao
waterworks. George Copp may or may
not have been appointed to the posi
tion of superintendent of the Maka
wao waterworks svstem.
It Is understood that County En
gineer Cox has made it clear that he
will not hold his position unlets his
duties and responsibilities arc defin
itely defined, but thus far in the ses
sion none of these matters have more
than been touched upon. There Is a
a possibility that a compromise will
be arrived at, whereby the county
engineer will be given authority over
the waterworks systems of the
county, but will be considered merely
as a "consulting engineer" in road
work, with no responsibility as to how
such work is executed.
It has been currently reported for
several weeks that George Copp, was
to resign his position as district over
seer, and accept the place of super
intendent of the Makawao water
works. Copp has been present at the
board meeting during the past two
days, but he has not yet resigned the
job he now holds, nor has he been ap
ppointed to the waterworks job. If
Copp takes the new position it is un
derstood that it will be upon the as
surance that real steps be taken to
rehabilitate the run down system, to
wards which end the supervisors are
asked to appropriate $12,000 for use
in the next six months.
Working On Appropriations.
The board was in session until
midnight last night on discussions of
matters of more or less importance,
among which was that of the Maka
wao pipeline, and it seemed practical
ly decided at adjounmen t that '.his
work, as recommended by the com
mittee of Investigation, some time
ago, be undertaken. This afternoon
it is expected that the semi-annual
appropriation ordinance will be under
consideration, and this may not be
completed until tomorrow. It will pro
bably not be until tomorrow that the
several matters of vital importance in
the policy of the county, as before
mentioned, will have been settled.
Kawahara, Japanese
Convict, Is In Wailuku
r
In order that he might appear in
the case which he has brought against
his sister-in-law, Sada Kuwahara, for
the possession of certain property
claimed by him in Wailuku. Rinsa
bura Kuwahara, a Japanese murderer
who is serving a sentence of 35 years
In the Oahu Prison, was brought to
Wailuku on Wednesday evening, in
custody of Deputy Warden NielBen,
and is now in the County jail. Kuwa
hara, who was a tinsmith in Wailuku,
stabbed his brother to death some 7
years ago in a dispute over the same
property for which he is now bring
ing suit in the circuit court.
His return has been the occasion
of a considerable demonstration on
the part of the local Japanese, among
whom the convict numbers many
friends, and the jail has been besieg
ed by many visitors ever since his ar
rival. He is represented in the case
by E. It. Eevins, as his attorney.
Loan Fund Board Calls
For Kuiaha Tenders
At a meeting of the Maui loan fund
commissioners, held last Friday
night, the contract for the labor and
construction of the kitchen and din
ing room building and the Ice plant
and cold storage room structure at
the Kula Sanitarium, was let to Hugh
Howell and Paul F. Lada, at their bid
of $2185. Time CO days. The tenders
for this work was very close. J. C.
Foss, Jr., biddings $2000, or but $15
more than the successful bidders,
while J. A. Aheong offered to do the
jol) for $2300.
The board also called for tender
for the macadamizing of the home
stead road through the Kuiaha home
steads, for which $35,000 was appro
priated, and these tenders are to be
opened at 7:30 p. m., January 28.
Work has already been started by
Howell and Lada on their contract
for constructing the Kihei home
stead road, which was awarded them
several weeks ago. Fortunately they
had not made much progress on the
work, or the storm of last Saturday
and Sunday would probably have un
done most of it.
Sanitarium School
Plan Is Approved
Supervisors Will Ask Sanction Of
School Department Board Also
Approves Plans Of Management.
The Kula Sanitarium is to have a
school of its own, provided the de
partment of public instruction will
sanction it. The matter was passed
upon by the board of supervisors, this
morning, and approved. Dr. Hurney
superintendent of the institution. Sen
ator H. A. Baldwin, and Dr. W. F. lie
Conkey, representing the managing
committee of the sanitarium, were
pres-ent at this morning session and
brought this and other matters to the
attention of the board. At the present
lime there are 8 children in the sani
tarium that should have school faci
lities, and the committee reported
that twenty or more pretubercular
children in the district, now in the re
gular public schools, should be taken
into the new school provided it is esta
blished. The supervisors also approved the
recommendation that a business and
outside superintendent be appointed
as assistant to Dr. Durney, who, with
the growth of the institution is unable
to devote sudlcient time to the mul
titudinous duties h els now called Up
on to perform. The appointment will
be made later.
Managing Committee To Be Enlarged.
In order that the work of combat
ting tuberculosis may be made more
effective, through keeping the people
of Maul in closer touch with what" is
being done, it was also decided to in
crease the managing committee of the
sanitarium from 5 to 9 members. Two
of the four new members are to be
ladies. The naming of these addition
al members will probably be made
this afternoon or tomorrow.
-it-
Big Storm Claims One
Victim at Hana
Caught by the heavy sea breaking
at the foot of the main street in
Hana, at an early .hour last Sunday
morning, D. K. Uaiwa, a blacksmith
cf Hana, was swept out into the bay
and drowned. His dead body was
found on the beach at the far side of
the harbor on Sunday afternoon.
Considerable mystery surrounded
the drowning, and at first there was
a suspicion of foul play, from the fact
that laiwa had been drinking with a
crowd of acquaintances on Saturday
evening at a house out on the point
at the west side of the harbor, and it
was known that the party had been
a boisterous one. Sheriff Crowell went
over to Hana on Tuesday to look into
the matter, and satisfied himself that
the man, in attempting to pass around
the warehouse at the foot of the street
had fallen Into the heavy surf which
was running at the time, and been
swept to hia death. This was the ver-
diict of the coroner's jury which sat
on the case.
The deceased was 32 years of age,
and leaves a wife and seven children.
Polo Season Soon To
Open On New Field
Maui polo games this season will
doubtless be played all on the new
Kailua field, near Keahua, instead of
at Sunnyside, as in the past. Practice
will probably commence on the new
grounds within a few weeks. The
new ground has been plowed, levelled,
and rolled, and now lias a fine manle-
nie turf. Two attendants' cottages
have been constructed, and a stable
with accommodations for 40 horses is
about completed. This last named
structures has a big over-hang of roof
all around it, beneath which it will
be possible to walk the ponies when
they come in from play.
At the present time there are
dozen or more horses at the-round
in charge of J. A. Tiernan, an expert
horseman.
Seaman of Melrose
Drowned at Kahului
John Gregerson, a sailor aboard the
lumber schooner Melrose, was drown
ed in Kahului harbor shortly before 7
o clock last evening. Vp to time of
going to press this afternoon, the
body had not been recovered. The man
had been drinking during the day, and
as he was walking near the side of the
vessel, on the deck load of lumber
he either staggered over the side or
tripped, and fell into the water.
Other members of the crew witnes
sed th e accident, and a rope was tos-
Bed to him, but although he rose to
the surface once, he sank again im
mediately and was Been no more. I
is said that the drowned man was
poor swimmer, and almost drowne 1 a
year or two ago in Honolulu harbor
when he accidentally fell overboard
He was a Swede, and his age was 41
years.
TEXAS SEETHING OVER
MEXICAN ATROCITIES
Demand On Washington For Intervention Carranza
Promises Punishment Of Murderers Monte
negro About To Succumb To Austrians
HONOLULU, January
EL PASO, January 14. " 'Remember tlic Altno!' Did we watch
and wait then? 'Remember Cushi!' Shall we watch and wait now?"
,50,000 cards hearing these words, have been distributed here as a part
of the anti-American outbreak which has turned city into a great riot
with Americans hunting Mexicans and driving them out of the city,
for safety. Martial law declared by Gen. Pershing. Greasers attack
id wherecver found.
HONOLULU, January 14. Soldiers from 9th Cavalry, a colored
regiment, passing through, make raid on Iwilei district, and cause riot
when white women of the district draw color line. Martial law de
clared, and troops sent from Fort
were looted and women were beaten up by the men. 500 colored sol
diers were engaged in the fracas.
Hundreds of Chinese and Caucasians visited the first steamer of
the new enterprise. Three more
Mail service.
WASHINGTON, January 14.
armv plan and raps promoters.
esult of panic, and asks congress
llliss approves plan to create great
Gen. Iluerta ends life as result
us nte. lie was under indictment
States.
NEW YORK, January 14.
ton from Galveston, was attacked
while oil British coast. Vessel was
NEW YORK, January 14.
ably be Lord Chelmsford, governor
TOKIO, January 14. The Mikado is planning to send an envoy
to King George to cement more
and to discuss plans for dispatching
ASHING 1 ON, January 14.
will be hunted down and shot. Representative of defacto president in
Washington assures a cleasing.
deplored, and promises ot reprisal
change warnings, both houses of
stant intervention.
WASHINGTON, January 13.
American, has been officially reported in dispatches sent to Washing
ton by Collector of Customs Cobb, of El l'aso. Kramer was shot by
Mexican bandits, near Guierra. State Department is further informed
that at the massacre on Tuesday
Villa colonels were in command.
LONDON, January 13. According to dispatches from Rome, the
Kaiser's illness has become so serious that his sister, Queen Sophia
of Greece has been summoned by
Ouccn Sophia is making preparations to start immediately.
Allies have landed food supplies
in order to avert threatened famine
parts of the Balkans.
PARIS, January 13. Cetinje,
e virtually impregnable, will soon
king and his people. The Austrian
riatic sea coast that the capital is already doomed. Austrian troops
including strong artillery force from Catarro and Budua reached Ric
hiez, 5 miles from Anrivari. The latter town is now under bombard
ment from long range guns, which the Austrians have with them. Only
a matter of time before Antivari will fall.
LONDON, January 13. Athens has lodged a formal protest with
the entente powers against their occupation of the Greek island of
Corfu. Allies are using it for military purposes.
EL PASO, January 13. Texas public sentiment against further
delay in securing prompt retribution for killing of Americans in Mexico,
has grown so high here that a petition is beng circulated asking that Col.
Roosevelt use his lntluence with
government which ha shcretofore
to protect American lives and property abroad. Americans m Chihua
hua are reported today to be lighting against a band led by Gen. Jose
Rodrigues, who was in command of the Villa force which killed the
mining men on Tuesday.
HONOLULU, January 13. Judge Wilder keeps up his fight
against the Governor, by publishing an open letter in reply to remarks
of Governor in cable to Washington, reflecting on "figment of imagina
tion." Josh Tucker returned to his office yesterday for the first time
since the first of the year. He may be ousted before his term expires.
Los Angeles is taking steps to establish trade with Hawaii.
Annual inspection of the Hawaii militia has been ordered. Cap
tan Lincoln in charge.
EL PASO, January 13. Public wrath increasing over murders
of Americans by Villa's troops. The crime was work of demons and
public fury on mainland increases as details arrive. One of the victims
was beheaded.
WASHINGTON, January 13. "Carranza will lie given a fair
trial," said Senator Stone last night, "to show that he is willing and
able to protect foreigners. If he fails, armed intervention will follow
to restore order." Steps are to be taken in both houses to force hand of
administration.
LOS ANGELES, January 13. Schmidt, ,on conviction of dyna
mite plotting, was given life sentence, and time to make apcal.
LONDON, January 13. Petrograd reports a general lull along
the Bukowina front. Austrians and Germans have ceased counter at
tack, because of great Iosm-s sustained.
Vienna reorts that Russians have attempted in vain an offensive.
TOKIO, January 13. While Count Okunia was returning from a
reception to the Russian ambassador, an unidentified man stepped from
shadow of a wall and threw two bombs at his automobile. Neither
struck him, and while the machine and roadway were torn to smithers,
(Continued
14.-Supr, $92.60.
Shafter to protect citizens Houses
vessels are wanted for the Chinese
Jane Aadams is opposed to great
Mie says preparedness demand is a
to delay conference while Gen.
army of volunteers.
of operation which failed to save
as a plotter against me unncu
British steamer Iluronian, with cot
by a submarine on December 29,
crippled but not sunk.
The new viceroy for India will prob
of New South Wales.
firmly the English-Japanese alliance,
more Japanese troops to the war.
Larranza says that Villa outlaws
Murder of American citizens is
are made. While diplomats ex-"
congress ring with demands for in
'
The ki'ling of Karl Kramer, an
of IS American mining men, two
telegraph to bedside of her brother.
for 150,000 Serbians in Albania,
of the Serbian refugees in various
capital of Montenegro, believed to
be no longer in the hands of the
advance is so rapid from the Ad
congress to change the olicy of the
refused to exercise its paternal duty
on Page Five.)
