K"jr "-s&'-ixFfii
gnrvr--- - "-' vol MitUf.iinmsyKf$
FINANCIAL EDITION
&f4F for
Urttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
trc:
r-VOt. H-KO. 105
PHILADELPHIA, If III DAY, JANUARY 14, 1010.
ConmouTa 1010, Bt tub Fcsua LRrotn CoiirANt.
ritlOB ONE CENT
wwsv?
sfm
In
FOUR GERMAN SAILORS SEIZED BY U. S.
AGENTS NEAR DU PONT WORKS AND ON
GOVERNMENT DREDGE CLOSE TO FORT
'echnical Charge
A train st Them Is
1 1 Breach of the Immi-
i gration Laws
VIT
&jeW Is Held, However, That
k Federal ucpartment ui l,b
'' LiVmilrl Not Take Trouble
:.i ? Uim Men Down if There
Kwor,c Not "More to It"
lI'L i .- .Atmnn t-pril'Rti nt tho
F0or ucnuttii o.n't .-;- -- --- --
En "today they arrived In Amerl-
R""",. t..i.. i 10H ulilr.1i linnnpnprt
5b tho ilny of tlio outbrcnk or the
SLropcan nr. were nrrestcd last night
it WUmlnKton, Del., nnd given a henr
ta today before the United States Im
knlrratlon Bonrtl nt Gloucester, X. .1.
liTho men came to tills country on mcr
'Vkinl vessels, nml profess not to know
If!' . .... i.n1.n llm (iml!?r.Tilrm l.iwfl
Ik leaving their ships without giving i
ifkelr lobs on hoard their ships nnd np
(jylnB for admission to the country ns
lleimlRrants. , ,
l.i. i. ,,ni rnn.otilereil n serious offense.
IWinrMni to Government officials, but
a... .... u..t 1ia iiiri nlifiiltmil work. In
WO jaCV rum- "' " ; "-
Inzs about tho countr, two of them In
i.factory ovcnuumiiK ntu ti.n,ini;.i w.
.. . .... .,.,, PntiTc Wnrlf.q nt Wllnilnc.
on Del.j and two of them on a Govern
'merit dredge, which haH been at work off
Tort du i'oiu aim omer iniieu fuuun uu
femes In tho Dflawnie Itlvor, led to
lint SUSPIC 1011 tnai iney mm ciiuhcii worn
.1.. A,trl hour liflu tliplr Knthnrlnnri
gill WWUiii .J...- ....... - .-
f9;the event that they hoped to servo it
.iBUff l IHIH i-uuuiij
The men ucscriiicu incn.Bc.vcs aa 101-
i
MYSTERIOUS FEATURES IN CAPTURE
OF GERMANS NEAR DU PONT WORKS
Four interned Gcrmnn sailors, who had broken parole, arrested by
United States agents in Wilmington.
Two had positions in plant overlooking du Pont powder works.
Two had jobs on Government dredge at work in river opposite Fort
du Pont.
Sailors come from German merchant vessels docking at Wilmington,
N. C and Baltimore. July 29, 1914. They went ashore, without permission
of Government immigration officials, to get jobs.
Held on theory that they may know whereabouts of missing members
of crew of Prinz Eitol Fricdrich nnd Konprinz Friedrich Wilhelm, Ger
man cruisers interned nt Norfolk.
Du Pont works engaged in filling gigantic powder order for the Allies.
Rumors afloat in powder towns that German spies were nt work nnd
that plants would bo wiped out mysteriously.
All Germans reported discharged from du Pout's.
Series of mysterious explosions nt du Pont works since the arrival
of the Prinz Eitel Fricdericn on March 10. Ship was interned April 9.
First and second ofllccrs und "certain members of crew" reported missing.
Tho du Pont explosions and fires since April 30:
April SO Powder mixer. Carney's Point, N. J. Six hurt.
May 15 Powder still-house, Carney's Point. Six killed.
June 2G Powder mill. Wayne, N. J.
July 13 Part of powder plant. Carney's Point. One killed, three hurt.
August 10 Part of plant at Wilmington.
August 29 Part of plant at Wilmington, Del. Two killed.
September 29 Part of plant at Haskell, N. J. Four killed.
October 1 Part of plant at Pompton, N. .T. One killed.
October 12 Part of plant at Pompton, N. J. Seven burned.
November 13 Powder mill, Rising Sun, Del.
November 30 Greatest explosion in history of company, at Hnglcy
Yard plnnt, near Wilmington. Thirty killed, seven hurt.
January 10 Scries of three explosions: Drying house, Carney's
Point: three killed. Pellet mill, Upper Haglcy yard; one hurt. Furnishing
mill, Upper Hngley.
Government investigation, directed by President Wilson nnd Attorney
General Gregory, followed the last three explosions, in co-operation with
the du Pont police officials.
GERMAN CHANCELLOR OFFICIALLY
DENIES KAISER IS GRA VELY ILL
NEW YORK, Jnn. 14.
In response to nn inquiry nddressed to him regarding the Kaiser's
condition, tho Imperial Chancellor today sent tho following wireless
message:
(CopyrlRht, 1018, by tho United n-fos.)
"The United Press:
"BERLIN (via wireless), Jan. 14. His Majesty receives
guests everv evening. He receives in audience his Ministers of
Stnto and officers of nigh rank for daily conferences. Tho Kaiser
takes walks in the palace gardens when weather permits. He has
never been confined to his bed and will very shortly resume his
customary activities. VON DETHMANN-HOLLWEG."
The Chancellor's message was in reply to the following Inquiry sent
by wireless:
"America flooded with varying reports Kaiser's illness.
Will you kindly favor us with authoritative statement of nature
and seriousness of illness."
UOTTLE SUCCEEDS HATTLE
Veteran Arrested for Intoxication
Says Drink Is His Only Friend
An old Civil War veteran who fouRht
through tho IiIb battles of the war on
the Northern sldo stood before Magis
trate Collins today accused of licliiK In
toxicated. He Rave his name as Wlltliun
I.lttlc and said ho had no home. His
clothing was tattered nnd ho was hut
less. Tlio crutches on which he stood, be
causo of rheumatism, looked ns if thoy
would minp und tlirow him to tho ltoor.
"Wliv do you drink so much, you know
It will' kill ouT said tho maKlstrato.
"All my friends and relatives are dead,"
replied Little. "Drink Is my only remain
ing comfort nnd friend."
Mttlp said ho didn't Intend to stay In
Philadelphia, and ho was released on his
promise to leave the city.
$230,000 High School for Lancaster
JANCASTi:n. Pa., .tan. II. The city
school board approved plans for tho
building of a new Hoys' High School at n
co3t of approximately $250,0W.
All IN SENATE
TO END WILSON
MEXICAN PLAN
Senator Works Wishes Con
gress to Take Situation
in Hand
BRITAIN ASKS FOR FACTS
GERMAN SAILORS OF TYPE CAPTURED AT DU PONT PLANT
' rrt A V" 1" i n ra ntil
JiKU AJjki)Wt1 3nFi ..., y ...... .x-v.
- ... tMininn rtn tlm ftolcht RlpntnM
i'ueru'ui'J n.i. ....... -;,-, . " ; t..i;.
r. WH, which la now voluntarily Internet
. htn.
BXMlt KUVPPSTin.V. Ki. or Urcmen. Ger-
w many, neiwnn o m in..
JKAHTj BnOlIMAV 2". ot Ilerlln. wamnn on
of llnmbure.
Hlllll
ihi Klthl.
'nm'.Diiici! KHu;ii:n
HI. of nromen. coa-
l.UH!lJt Ji liu.'r.ii. .it. ii .iiuuiviii phi
nun on the frcUlit Rtramslilii uni-ln, arrl-
t tiattiitmri. to!. "II 1111 1 nt.it nmu n1
qntailly Internal there
KtWO. AIIUKSTBD ON V. H. DRUDGE.
W Altnian and Klappstcln wcro taken into
ii custody byjmmlgrntlou Inspector William
''( iJ, Crlnwrtuis while worklifg on the Govern-
I't.worklng oft Fort pupout. Tho other two
tVmtlnucil orj 1'nce Viiur, Cnliunn One
MIITALIANIEISERBI
JN DlrisSA )i SCUTAK1
RRoma Si Vede Ancora la Pos-
tsibilita' di Andare in Aiuto
I Ar TVTrti4-nninr,l
ileleEramml da Roma dlcono chc cola'
lit ttteuao die II re Nicola del Monte-
pMtfcr, vipto ornial ed Imposslbllitnto a
Friater plu" oltro alle forzo austrlacho
imwo volte superiorl alio sua in numero e
T'ewto volte plu' beno armato o plU'
ntorpllB dl munlzlonl, si arrenda comple-
L 4.Aef.4. T-1t l.n ,Hn flerrtntn .in nrmla.
ttu'o con il comandanto delle forzo aus
trhche o si dice cho lo truttatlvo per la
'Mce saranno inflate nresto coslcche
Lj;Ptaixio essera terminate per la line del
'JMt corrente.
mo' at fa intravedcre ancora la nos-
tMblllta.' dl un'azlono dl forze itnliane n
irbe attraverso l'Albnnl.a settentrlonale
Ifntio il llontenegro, Sara' posslblle una
iHlon elmllo so si aglra presto o se l'ar
'wbtlilo contlnuera' do. nualche temno.
Rtlieche' esso niontro immoblllzza lo forzo
...u-iacna cne sono nei iMomenegro non
Un.edlaco certamente che ell ttallanl sbar-
ftWno a San Nlcolo' o San Giovanni e
(WTClno verso Scutari.
Bt Bl ootra salvaro Scutari snra cla
tflgrande solllevo, nncbo se non si riu
irtr ad attaccare efllcacemeute II Lov
U-t? Cattaro. Contro Cattaro deve agire
rt con II blocco la ftotta Itallana, spe-
iimema. ae e' vera la notlzla die II
iww della flotta austriaca si e' con-
gwtrata pella Bocche.
ruerBr In 15a paslna le ultima e plu'
rttigiiate notlzla sulla cuerra, in
ElUllano.)
THE WEATHER
f "Well, if we can't havA n lltttn sunEhlna
Jj'and then there are apparently several
,-- . uu ing weuiner vauuevino pro-
9WQ Cleatlnfid in oIva nnttRfnrtlnn Tt'n
5JT co!4 right now outdoors, but It la
r "Jigei colder. Yesterday at 8 a. in.
temperature - was G3 degrees; this
Jjwaar at the same hour the mercury
2"H' " aegreea. iiualnesa of counting
Pgfl. To that's 10, to 33 thafa 10
PJJ-V a from 33 that's I more. 10 and 10
dl ,2t'" :l' 2-degree drop In 24-houra.
JJJ-' Thafa funny!" Dut If you will
prf"-" tho tax o( mercurial meandertnga
'SSij r tolamn you will notice that
-.-'. been consistent, reaching the
kill., . - T.w.., M .v.j mtuauai a.Mo
IU. ' and "e Prospect la for vrx
"jMttUng; developments aa the hours
ISiT- The Elmera and the- Penrods
ItSu . re,t of tha kld3 are having all
ItW o tunny feellnes un nnrt rinwn tha
n. While the fellow nrlth tho fur "nut
ai'il fur nnlu an .... (-.. ..II.. i
IS1 ls Kttlntr ready to stuff a newa
S r wo under hla vest.
amr"rt-rr-rr-rr.rr.i-r..i.i
wL FORECAST
kW Philadelphia and vicinity
wwntand Saturday; colder to
F tA lowest about IS degrees;
- nortjwest vnnds.
tOHT AND FOUND
l tfi&IS.!? Si M-n-""'".? ..No. . l.-HT In
ITT 4 C H Uell hnvlnv hn Inut nn.
Ur ery ElVtn that Qi.nlli-.nln.i h.i. keen
"" . new ctxtiacaw.
-i. C. II. BELL.
?Trf": Sunday. Januarv D a ininll old
h,V'"3a Court. Gcrm4.atown, and re-
ec?nidJU5.,,I-u5tJr'n terrier, from
til, LT1 and Chestnut u.. brown.
mi if iiVTf.. green collar, unauera iu
;j2T-skss iteari4. vi: stoKea.
V tteen Phtlarf..tTM .n.rnh.lnul
tetueea PhlladtliibU an.lCheatnut
7UQW tan. nln In .I.1.,..l.lnii.i1
3c4iit ti9 "wal'11 'f rt'-r"'l -123
Matthf ? ir 'm tnotor at opera on Tu
KkS?fc.il Bold wrlat watch bUt-k
S'fw.
tSSsssse &" "
Odwrri-,.'! ! m rase, if o. i.
Carranza Pledges Redress
for Murder of A mcricans
WASHINGTON, Jnn. 14. Gen.
Vcnustlano Cnrrnnza, head of tho
do facto Government of Mexico, to
day pledged that the murderers of
tho 17 Americans nenr Chihuahua
would be brouRht to justice. He
wired Kulosio Arrendondo, his Am
bassador here, to make this an
nouncement: "The attack on the passenger
train near Chihuahua was mado by
the only remaining band of out
laws in that region. This band is
being actively pursued by my
troops to insure its capture, when
condign punishment, which their
crime deserves, will be meted out
to every guilty participant.
"Troops of the Constitutionalist
Government have been instructed
to establish n complete patrol of
the entire railway from end to end
in order to forefend against similar
outrages. You will mako this
declaration to the press of the
United States.
"VENUSTJANO CARRANZA."
Theso are members of the auxiliary cruiser Prinz Eitel, which was interned at Norfolk last year. Some of
them have since escaped. The picture shows tho nervy, clean-cut looking type of men who have mado
the Geripnn navy synonymous with dnring.
WOMAN'S NERVE
AIDS IN ROUND-UP
OF BLACKMAILERS
Two Suspects Now Held in
Widespread Scheme of
Extortion
MRS. WINPENNY'S STAND
Work of Blackmailers
Throughout the East
Gang said- to include 10 or 12
men and women.
Sums obtained from wealthy men
and women in the East aggregate
$200,000, according to Federal
Agent Garbarino.
Method of extortion To threat
en "exposure" for alleged breaches
of the Mann white slave law.
Prominent Philadelphian scared
into paying $20,000 to avoid scan
dal, though innocent. Up-State
Judge paid ?2500. Woman in
western Pennsylvania paid $40,000.
Congressman also caught in net.
Many others paid from ?100 to
$1000.
First person with t ourage to
brave gossips found in this city,
when Mrs. Susan G. Winpenny
agreed to accuse men who had de
manded $8000 on threat of arrest
ing her son on charge or "white
slavery."
The arrest of all the meml trs of the
moat darlne aid carefully organized gang
of blackmailers that has operated In this
country In a generation la expected by
Federal agents In this city, following the
arrest of William Butler In I'hlladelphla
and of Dan Collins In New York, and
the accuaatlou made against the former
by Mrs. Susan G. Winpenny.
The Department of Justice detectives
are now looking fop women who were
members of the gang, and who helped
the blackmailers In some cases to pre
pare "evidence" against prominent and
wealthy men.
The Mann white slave law was used
by the gang to compel victims to pay
large sums or run the risk of being pub
llchr suspected of having taken girls
from one State to another for Immoral
PTheye3poaed as Government inspectors
or marshals, displayed fake badges and
SJeald to have obtained in all J200.0W
from wealthy persons In the big cities of
the East and to have obtained and dlv-
BRAVE WOMAN RESISTS
ATTACK BY AN ARMED
NEGRO, WHO IS CAUGHT
Dodges Blows With Knife, Es
capes From House After
Struggle and Gives
Alarm
ASSAILANT UNDER BAIL
Continued on Vase lite. Column Four.
Swears When Fined for Swearing
W1LMINGTQN, Del.. Jan. . - When
Robert McCloskey, jr.. a mu w
costs today for using Improper language,
.ii.nr trouble at the saloon of hU
father last night, he swore at tho Judge.
McCtoskey was ordered locked "P until
tomorrow mornuw . - . w
iharsed with, contempt of court.
Rrnvory and presence of mind saved
Mrs. Kmlly McOlnty, of I0SS Warren
street, from probabi. death nt tho hands
of a negro niRpIcker, who attacked her
with knife nt her homo. Her assailant
was captured nnd held todays In heavy
hall.
Tho negro, who said his name wan
Pleasant Atkins, entered the woman's
homo yesterday while she was asleep.
She awoke as he wild nbuut to attack
her. Tho man then drew a knife, which
he obtained on the tlrst floor, and warned
the woman ho would kill hor If she mado
an outcry. Sho dodged Jils blows, and
after a struggle, reached the lower floor
and escaped to the street.
Mrs. McGlnley then went to a neurby
store, where her son was employed, and
she informed him of tlje attack. Ho
notified tho police of the 83th street and
Lancaster avenue station,
Lieutenant Savage sent a squad of
police to search the neighborhood. The
woman gave a good description of her
assailant and tho police concluded that
he was Atkins.
Several polljmen entered hla home at
1037 Wallace street nnd found clothing
and other,artlcles, which. It Is said, were
stolen frdm the residence of Mrs. Mc
Olnty. Atkins had got word of their com
ing and ran from the rear of the house,
tie was captured after a chase of several
blocks.
At a hearing before Magistrate Steven
son the woman positively Identified the
negro as her assailant. He attempted a
denial, but finally declared that Mrs.
McGlnty called him Into tho house to buy
a rug, which she wanted to sell.
Magistrate Stevenson held Atklna In
J15Q0 ball for court.
A. ASHTON WORK,
BANKER, COMMITS
SUICIDE AT HOME
Dies in Hands of Doctor
Who Was Attending
Sick Daughter
ACCOUNTS IN GOOD SHAPE
DR. CHARLES S. THOJIAS
DIKS AFTER LONG ILLNESS
Ilad Large Practice and Formerly
Was Dean of Hahnemann College
Dr. Charles S. Thomas, a widely known
physician who enjoyed one of the largest
practices in Philadelphia, and who was
formerly dean of Hahnemann Medical
College, died early today at hla country
resldehce In West Chester after a linger
ing Illness of two years. He was 67 years
old and. until RU retirement three years
ago, maintained an office at 1823 Chestnut
street.
Dr. Thomas was an eminent authority
upon surgery and ophthalmology, and a
member of the American Institute of
Homeopathy, and the State and County
Homeopathic Societies. He. was bom In
Watertown. N. Y., May 3, 1349, educated
at the Philadelphia Central High School
and Hahnemann College, followed by
courses In surgery in European universi
ties. He Is ouryived by a widow and
three daughters. Arrangements for pta
funeral have, not yet been maul.
A. Ashton Work, sciretury-trensurer of
the Northern Trust Company, at 6th and
Spring Garden streets, committed buI
clde vurly today, according to tho po
lice, at his homo, 1102 Duncaunon ave
nue, by shooting himself through the
heart, while hla wife and physician were
In a nearby room attending his sick
daughter.
Worry over 111 health Is said to have
caused him to kill himself. His ac
counts are "scrupulously correct," It was
Bald at the Northern Trust Company,
The shot rang out at 3;30 o'clock this
morning fron Mr. Work's bedroom.
Down the hall. In another room, his
daughter, Miss Katherino Work, who as
sisted in the unveiling of the Poinsett
Memorial Monument October 30. last, lay
111, with Dr. George Lewis Smith, or
5S3S Wayne avenue, and Mrs. ork at
her bedside. In a mem adjoining Mr.
Work's was Miss Elizabeth Rlegnold, a
sister of the banker's wife, asleep.
The shot, coming In the dead of night,
startled the household, waking up those
sleeping. Miss Rlegnold was the tlrst to
rush Into tho room. She found Mr. Work
sprawled on the bed. A revolver, with
smoka curling from the barrel, was on
the floor.
Doctor Smith was tho second to reach"
the room. He made a hasty examina
tion, finding a fatal wound In the bank
official's left side. He attempted to re
vive Mr. Work, but death came In a few
moments.
Entire confidence a to the correctness
of Mr. Work's accounts was expressed
by officials of the trust company, A pre
liminary investigation by the German
town police established that worry over
heart trouble caused him to end his life.
W, Frederick Snyder, president of the
company, said:
"We all very greatly regret the fact of
Mr. Work's suicide. Jt haa resulted In
no way from any shortage or deficiency
In his accounts with the company, not
one dollar of Its money having been lost
through or by him, hla accounts being en
tirely correct,
"It so happens that aa late as Decem
ber, In the ordinary course of his exam
ination, the bank examiner examined the
accounts and found them In all respecta
correct. In addition to this, we know
from our own annual examination, made
Continued on Page Two, Column Two
Philadelphian Is New Navy Chaplain
A former Philadelphian was recently
appointed to office of chaplain ot the
United Statea Navy. The appointment
dates from December 21, but the duty
to which he will be assigned has not yet
been dealgnated. The new chaplain's
name la the Rev. B, A. Duff, of St.
Mary's Catholic Church, Greenville, a. o.
He la a native of JhU city.
Direct intimation from England
of her interest in the recent Mexican
outrages, determination of President
Wilson not to change his purpose of
giving General Carranza a chance to
provo himself, and word from Car
ranza declaring in efTcct that ho could
and would handle the situation and a
proposal that Congress take tho mat
ter into its own hands were the high
points in the day's Mexican develop
ments. These things happened:
Tho British Embassy arranged for a
conference with the State Department
regarding Mexico.
President Carranza of Mexico wired
a message telling his purpose to mete
out "condign punishment" to the ban-,
dits who murdered Americans in Chi
liunhun. General Rodriguez, Villa's chief
tain, reported executed by Carranzls
tas at Madera.
The President discussed the situa
tion with Senator Stone, who later,
warmly defended tho Administration's
course in a Senate speech.
Tho White House let it bo known
that no United States troops would be
sent across the border for the pres
ent at least.
Tho Cabinet, in regular session,
backed up the President in deferring
action.
Senator Works, by resolution, pro
posed that Congress take tho matter
out of the hands of the President and
intervene.
WASHINGTON, Jan. H.-"For Ood'a
sake, glvo Carranza a chance."
With his voice trembling with emotion,
and with pleading gestures, Senator
Stone, of MUsourl, this afternoon thus
i.et forth the Administration's Mexican
policy amid a storm of lierco demands
for linmedlnto Intervention In the Penatp.
The veteran Democratic leader had re
turned from a long conference with tho
President to tind the Senate in a state ot
excitement. A resolution authorizing and
directing the President to Intervene in
Mexico renewed the battle on the Mexi
can situation In the Senate today.
Senator Works declared he had always
shared with the President that the policy
of natchful waiting would win. but that
now he had come to a realization that
such a hope no longer has any founda
tion. "The responsibility for solving the Mex
ican problem is too great for the Presi
dent to bear alone," he said. "Congress
alone has the power to declare war.
"Intereventlon means war, but Con
gress must assume Its responsibility
courageously and without delay," he
added.
Senator 'Works opposed appealing to
the Pan-American countries for co-operation
because the responsibility was en
tirely our own.
The resolution beside desiring inter
vention asks the President to make use of
the land and naval forces of the United
Statea and to maintain them in Mexico
until a stable and etltclent Government Is
established.
Senator Lodge, of Massachusetts, In
asking his resolution of April 21, 1911.
directing Intervention, be reprinted In the
record, made a sarcastic attack upon the
Administration.
"Our war with Mexico has been brought
to a successful conclusion because our
enemy. Genera Huerta, haa died in Jail,"
be ald.
Senator Stone, Administration leader.
Continued en Vfe Setcn. Cvhunn On
QUICK NEWS
MARTIAL LAW FOLLOWS HONOLULU RIOT
HONOLULU. Jnn. M. Part of this city was under martial
law today as n result of the raiding; of tho tenderloin district last
night .by 500 colored tioopers, members of the Oth United States
Cavalry. Many buildings were wtecked nnd looted. The police
wcio poweilcss, nnd It was not until United States Infantrymen
charged the mob of troopers with fixed bayonets that they wcro
dispel setl.
PARKWAY SITE FOR CONVENTION HALL
A itc for the ptoposcd Conviction Hall, at Slat, iiZd nnd Cal
lowhill sticcts nnd the Parkway, was selected by Mnyor Smith today
after n trip of iubpectiou. He will recommend it to Couuclls prob
ably on Thuifidny. "It la the best bite that has been oupscstcl,"
the Mayor paid.
AUSTRIA TO PROTEST AGAINST SAILING OF VERDI
WASHINGTON, Jan. II. Tho Bnlllnp; front Now Yorlr, with tho consent
of tho State Department, of the Italian liner Glusoppo Vcrdl with guns mounted
on her drits probably will result in a protest from tho .Austrian Government,
It wns Intimated today nt the Austrian Kmbnnny. HnronKwlodlnelc, tho Aus
trian Chnrp;e, todny rnbletl his Government details of the case, nnd will await,
a reply beforo tnltlng action.
MISSISSIPPI FLOOD CAUSES MUCH SUFFERING
MEMPHIS. Tenn.. Jan. 14. With the weather near the zero mark today
nml IiIkIi water covering every foot of land unprotected by the lovee system,
reports In tho upper ami lower river bends told of considerable suffering
among the poor. On Cut Island hundreds of heiul of stock uro standing In
water fccveml foot deep. In sonio plnaccs where backwater was created with
out il river out rent resctio parties were forced to out lco from uround their
stock to get them out. The river threatens to reuch the 1913 stage, tho high
est ever known.
VATICAN POLITICS NOT TO FIGURE IN PEACE CONGRESS
ROMi;. Jim. 14. Political afTnlrs of the Vatican will play no part In tho
pcare conference when tho wnr emli, ny tho Corrlero d'ltalla In un urtlcle
attributed to n semlofllciul source. Denial Is tnnilo of recent reports that the
Kaiser has offered Pope Hcnrdiet XV the presidency of tho I'eaco Congress. "Up
to dntc," say tho Corrlero d'ltalla, "the Holy See 1ms never directly or Indirectly
sought to secure the support of either group of belligerents In return for partici
pation In the pence parley. Tho Pope's only desire Is to nllevlato humanity's
sufferings (lining the present critical hour."
ALABAMA BANK SAFE ROBBED OF $25,000
CLAYTON, Ala., Jim. U. Tho safe of the Hank of Clayton was cracked
early today and $25,000 stolen. A posse with bloodhounds was organized to
run down tho robbers.
$12,000 JEWEL ROBBERY IN NEW YORK
NKW YORK, Jnn. 14. A $12,000 jewel robbery was reported to tho police
today by Mrs. Rose Tovnn. of 640 Riverside drive. Mrs. Tovun told tho police
that on Wednesday afternoon sho went to a matinee, leaving her apartments
In ehnrgo of u young man who had been Blck nnd whom she had been nursing
back to health. Whan sho returned both tho young man and tho Jewels yvero
missing. Mrs. Tevan refused to give tho man's name or toll miything nboutlllni.
HARRIS RECOMMENDED FOR CHIEF OF YARDS
Secretary of tho Nuvy Daniels today sent tho nnmo of Lieutenant Com
mander Frederic It. Harris, of tho Philadelphia Nnvy Yard, to President "Wilson,
to bo Chief of Yards and Docks, succeeding Rear Admiral Standford, whose
term expires today.
SENATE GETS ADMIRAL FLETCHER'S REPORT
WASHINGTON. Jim. 14. The report of Admiral Fletcher, showing tha
failure of tho defending llect to resist nu invasion in last summer's Atlantic
lleet maneuvers, was submitted to tho Senate today by Secretary of Iho Navy
Daniels. At tho request of Senator Lodge, who originally naked for tho report.
It was decided to print It and refer It to tho Naval Affairs Committee.
U. S. SOLDIER DETAINED BY BRITISH AT KINGSTON
NKW YORK, Jan. 14. An American soldier In uniform was removed from
the' United States steamship Santa Murta at Kingston, Jamaica, despito the
fact that tho United States Hag was flying over the ship at tho time, accord
ing to information brought to port today by tho Santa Marta.
Tho American soldier was Albert Clark, of the 5th United States Infantry,
who was returning to the United States to report to tho Adjutant General In
Washington. Clark had completed 19 months' nctivo service In tho Canal Zone.
When the Santa Marta reached Kingston a British olllcer went on board nnd
began questioning tho passengers. Clark said ho was born In Vienna, but
had taken out naturalization papers. Ho was taken nshoro and held for soma,
time. Later he was returned to the ship, but no apology wus made.
TURKS ENTER PERSIAN CITY OF KERMANSHAH
CONSTANTINOPLE, Jan. 14. Turkish troops have entered the Impor
tant city of Kermunshah, according to unofficial reports received hero today.
Kermnnshuh, noted for Its rugs, is a Persian trading centre of about 30,000,
situated 70 miles west of Hnmadnn, where a Russian force Is operating.
BRITISH SHIP ASHORE AT CAPE HENRY
NORFOLK. Viu. Jan. 14. Tho Hrltlsh bte.-imshlp Priestlleld went ashore
eurly today near the Cupe Henry Llfo Saving Station. On account of the high
seas running, the life-savers have been unable to reach tho vessel, but she.
Is In no danger. Threo tugs today endeavored to pull the British steamship
Oilfield off a bar in Hampton Roads, where she ran aground.
GERMAN DASH ON SUEZ ONLY DELAYED
ROME, Jan. 14. The Turco. German expedition against, Egypt has been de
layed, but has not been abandoned. A'uthoritatlvo reports received here are
to the effect that tho railroad from Jerusalem has been carried across1 the
Slnal desert to a point only 50 miles from the Suez Canal, Supplies of water
and provisions have been accumulated along the route the expedition Is to follow.
The delay In the attack on the canal Is probably due to the fact that tho
railroad Is not yet completed, since tho Germans are convinced t,hat military
operations In the. desert are Impossible unless the railroad extends as far as the
neighborhood of Ismalllyeh (on the canal, 48 miles from Pprt Said).
SEIZED MAIL REVEALS SPY PLOT, SAY BRITISH
LONDON, Jan. 14. The discovery of an organization 'of spies In Great
Iirltuln operating with a branch In America has been made by censoring Amer
ican mall. Tho British otllclals state that the local German cpy. organization
has been using American malls to transmit information to Its-branch In' the
United States, which forwards It to Germany by de.yl.ous routes, pf .which, one
of the principal leads through Holland. The plot la said to be widespread.
FRENCH GOVERNMENT TO AID SHIPOWNERS
PARIS, Jan. 14. The French Government, because of Jhe shortage of marl
time shipping facilities, has dacldad to ask thoChamber of Deputies to authorize
the advance of 100.000,000 francs (t20,000,000)tcnhipowner for the Increase ot
their fleets by the purchase of allied or neutral vessels. The bill empowers the
Treasury to mako advances up tp tho sum mentioned for the acquisition ot
ships. The funds will be lent at, the interest rate prevailing in the Bank ot
France for advances oil securities,
US. MAIL TO SWEDEN CUT OFF 11 DAYS
STOCKHOLM. Jan. 14. No American mall has been received here sine
January 3. "Chla fact has caused speculation on the part of the newspapem
whether the sonrecelpt ot mall Is due to Uu seizure by Great Britain or to a
new American arrangement to send letter post only by Scandinavian nteam;h!ps.
Great Brltolu's note regarding; the stopping In transit by the Swedish Gov
ernment ot parcel post for England and Russia, has been received, but will not
be published.
fl
!
i
i
w
