.V.':
o o,
tf1
JEST CAEUD SUGAR QUOTATIONS
V.. J :'" - , Crnt bvllar
M, Centrlfoeal N. T. , pw lb r to
rrtce, tiawaiiaa au : .B3 S92.B0
' ' 1 " i i i -
Lent previous quote- ' ;
tloa ............. 4.49 189 80
, , i . . . i if . , i i ' . . . i i - . , .ii
VOL.-' IX, NO, ' 4 , : ; Vj ; .'f -y "' Y , , , -HONOLULU.-HAWAII TERRITORY, , FRIDAY. JANUARY 14; 1916SEMt-WEfeKCY.
.WHOLE NUMBER 4195
S: T(SPSER:CUSI!'
mx lii!
7
XAN
IIIEI SCEOE
OF BIS MOT:
SOLDIERS MOB
inioor
THEIR HOUSES
Colored Troopers of Ninth' Cav
alry En Route To Manila, In-
, vade District About Five Hun
dred Strong, and Proceed To
. 'Clean It . ? Ufe' Thoroughly
POLICE AND PROVCIST J
GUARD POWERLESS AND '
"SHAFFER SENDS TROOPS
Enraged At Racfal Line Drawn.
. Visiting Cavalrymen ; Batter
s Down DoorsV Stone and Beat
Women and Destroy property
' Jri Their Frenzied Onslaught
OrT,TC-hnnilxf(J 'eolofteWffiuiiMti-aB -a feOaral f dree.eeubl be
diers of the Ninth Cavalry,
on leave from ,. the .' tramrport
' febtridan , a. tacked ' the- nouses ot
' toe: women of . Iwilei ' ahortly ' af
ter seven o'clock last night, . awl
before troopa - from crt Shaftcr,
-aummoned te cope with the riot by the
powerless police, eonld intervene,, had
wrecked ; fully half of the fifty odd
houses and looted practically all of
them. Two of the d.nixena of the dis
trict were- painfully . injured - by the
rioters, and nearly , all of them loet
money jewed, y and other- valuables
Which they had hidden in various nooks
.and eranfea of the' houses.
When the" 8econd- Battalion of the
Second Infantry reached the district,
after thd.riot call had been issued the
sons was declared 'under martial law
and a line ot white soldiers, with fixed
bayonets, was set to guad the prison
road and the approaches to Asia Park.
Not aa arrest was made, but mili
tary offie:als said that a strict investi
gation of the affair would be mada to
day and the ring leaders, 'in what is
t elleved te have been a carefully plan
ned plot to wreck the whole die r-et,
'punished. , . . v.
, As soon ae news of the outbreak
reached 'Nrmy . headquarters, orders
; were iriued doubling the provost guard
ia other districts of the city, and di
recting that every memter of the Ninth
Cavalry be arrested on sight and taken
to the transport Sheridan, undqr guard.
Trouble Start la Afternoon
." The trouble starts) yesterJay after
noon when ; mem! a s of the Cavalry
regiment, in the city on its way to
Manila,' visited the district of Iwilai
and attempted to forre their attentions
upon the whits inmates of tbe various
houses. . With the exception, of threa
' or four of the houses, the women re
fused' te allow-' the men inside their
- bouses. Reports of this attitude on
" the part of the wh'tc women spread to
tin other' Ninth Cava'ry soldiers, who
' were siyht-seeinf all over town. It got
' to" the dance given to the members of
. the Ninth by the Twenty fifth regi
ment, at the national guard ' armory,
and stirred up a Ka'e of wrath among
; the visiting so'diers. Later, it is said,
. three-or four men, members ex d fferent
companiea, organ ted a gang . of fifty
or sixty- cavalrymen,' who bad been
visiting the saloons in different parts
of the eity .and proceeded to march
on Iwllel.1' ' V",-: i
As the little . band went along it
5rew in number, until by the, 1 line the
istrict waa reaahed more tlmu four
hundred' colored soldiers, among wh im
it was said, were some members of ths
Twenty-fifth regiment, all of them more
or letn under the influence of liq ior
and anger, and prime for trouble, we-e
in me gang. : , . ; ,
.It was shortly after seven o'clock,
aeco,rding to tbe statement of members
of the provost guard stationed in the
district, when the dl.turbauee; a'artd
with an attark on the house ke:t by
Lena tftelu. The r'.oters 'were armed
with brickbats - snd dubs,' an 1 ficy
used s'ones from tho stroetj and gar
dens as "mlse'le.
A Iriek th-o-gh the winlow of the
t ; (Continued On Toge S)
AflE ADDAW1S RAPS
li
Woman Peace Advocate Tells So
. Ions" Preparedness Demand '
: Result of Pario , v v
ASKS CONGRESS FOR DELAY
General Bliss Approves Proposal
To Create Great Army of ;'
; v .' Volunteers ' ' Y;--
(AtsooUW Ttm by ridml Wlnlass.) .
WASHINOTON, Janaary 14.- 'Tho
whole demand for prepared ia do
solely to panic," according to J
Addania, ; who appearad : baforo .' tha
houra eommlttee on military affairs
yiiterdajr to nrge that tbera ba no in
ereaao ia tha army authorized until
after tha end of the war in Europe. .-'
Mini Addania auggeated that it would
ba in the national interest if eongreaa
were to appoint a rommiasion to atudy
the facta ai to the - preaant efficiency
of the army ai"d the navy and to la
veitigate the motiTea and the interests
of those who; today are advocating
military and naval increases. "-
Major General Bliss of the ' general
staff, also appeared before the commit
tee'as a witness.. 'He told the commit
tee that be was in favor of the aag
gestion of the secretary of war for the
creation of a continental army of vol
unteers, being unable- to Me any meth
od through 'i wbib - the emiloyment of
the present State National Guard or-
brought about. " i ,- y
General Bliss advocated the adding
of a sufficient number of Infantry Iregt
ments to the present regular army or
ganisation to complete the - skeleton
formations of the three infantry divi
sions contemplated.
In the matter of aeronautics, the
witness announced that tha American
plants have been equipped now to such
an extent that" they are able:-to build
two hundred aeroplanes a month. '
TEUTON DIVER ATTACKS
But Steamer Gets Away Although
Hit By Torpedo .
(AssoeUUd Press try racers! WlrslsM.)
NEW YORK, January 14. The Brit
ish steamer Huronian, with cotton from
Galveston, was attacked by a aubma
rine on December 29, off the Irish coast,
according to word which has junt reach
ed uere.
The Huronian was crippled but not
sunk. The news, of the reappearance of
German submarine in Irish waters was
conveyed by a cable yesterday from the
London agent of the International Mer
cantile Marine, who notified the local
agenta that the Huronian, having been
injured by a torpedo, la returning to a
British port in tow.
The wording of this cable indicates
that the steamer had discharged her
cargo and waa on her return voyage
to (he ynited States.
MIDDLE WEST IN GRIP
;v v OF FIERCE STORM KING
(Associate rrsss y Tsdsral Wirslsss.)
CHICAGO,- January 13 The aevere
storms in- the Middle Wet and Canada
are continuing today. The tempera
tures are falling even lower and there
are many report of high winds. Tbe
enrw ia s U falling aad in several
places is deeper than for many years.
Temperatures rsngiag from twenty to
flftv decrees below mrn ra rnn.rted
at various pdint. , Th t jlegriph wires
or a large part of the country are out
. i -
of loirm'asion.
NEW VICEROY OF INDIA
MAY BE AN AUSTRALIAN
(Atseoisted rress by Tini Wtrslsas.) .
LONDON, January M.The Times
annouacea tljat the. aew ' Viceroy of
India will "probably be Lord, CbeUnn
ford, the-' present .governor of New
South Wales. Lord Chelmsford baa
beeu in publia life since 1802, prior to
being appointed to the New Boutb
Wales governorship having aerved in a
like position iu Queeuslaud.
BIGGER ARMY PLA
GEHERAL HUERTA
EL
Soldier, Scientist and Provisional
. President, He Ends An Exile :
; ; , From Mexico
OPERATION FAILED 1 TO SAVE
Grim Old Indian ; Fighter Under
Indictment As Plotter Against
' United States" . '
I; AssosUlt4 Press t Mml Wlretsss.)
EL PASO, January 14. Gen. Victor
lano Hnerta, former provisional, presi
dent of Mejleo, held, here under arrest
by federal authority.', and indicted
Wednesday' for violation of American
neutrality Jaws; died last . night after
an illness of several weeks. : An od-
oration was performed some timo ago
. . ..
in me nopes ex arresung u aliment
from which the exiled Mexican leader
suffered, and another operation was pro
posed. - ; 'a",::'t!'
-.General Hnerta was .a professional
soldier, and a aueh he had, np to the
overthrow of I'realdent .Franoisco, Ma
dero, been known for hie loyal sup
port of the existing governments. He
fought loyally; tor President Porfiro
Dias until lii fall, and when Pia war
a longer ; chief executive, r Huert
, .. 5 ' .
fought for Francisco de la. Barra. be
provisional 'president. After Francisco
Madero Was elected Huerta found It to
be his dutjr to support on who had so
ln fouht-ea rebel iili ioyalry-;
was pot challenge nntii the Felix Djk
revolution in Mexldo City in February,
1913, when the Mader government was
completely overthrown and Huert -himself
elevated to the presidency - i
CbOM MUtary Career - -
Huerta devoted himself to the 'mili
tary career at a vr-rr early kge. ' Bora
at Chihuahua in 1854, he entered the
military academy of Chapultepee at the
age of seventeen' and passed thrragh
the full conrse to graduation in 1878,
when h was commissioned 'second lieu
tenant of engineers. During , his aea
demie taint he waa known for hi pre 11
lection for scientific - studies, particu
larly astronomy and mathematics. .' , '
When Porflrio Diaa began hi reor
gan'tation of the Mexican army, Huer
ta ws promoted captain of engineer
and while holding thi rank devised
the plan for a Mexican general staff
corps, ' He waa an aetive member of
the military, map commission, created
to draft a staff map. of Mexico on a
large scale and he had charge of all
the astronomical work of the commis
sions leading exploring and surveying
parties ever the wildest region of the
republic. '','' ;': :'"
bur ng the ensuing year Huerta saw
much active service. In 1901 be left
the staff and took command of the in.
fantry in the campaign against th
Yaqui Indiana. He participated- in
su I sequent Ya qui campaigns and also
. in the campaign in Yucatan against the
Maya, Indians. As a reward fer al
Indian aqrvice Huerta waa given the
rank of brigadier-genera!-., and once
more detailed to the general staff.
Failed To Support Madera .
In th second Felix Dias revolution,
whic,h resulted in the overthrow of .the
Madero government Huerta. was imme
diately called to active command as the
senior ranking general then in the cap
ital. H escorted Madero from Cbapul
topoc Castle to the Palace on the first
of the ten days' fighting aad was plac
ed in entire command of the force, of
the government, lie directed the gov
ernment troops during all th subse
quent fighting, and the conduct of these
operation .led to sever criticism on
the part of Madero 's friends. It was
eharged that he did not carry out the
operation with any spirit, that be dis
obeyed the commands of President Ma
dero, and that before General Blanquet
entered th city it was this conference
which sealed tbe fate of the- Madero.
i consummation of the plot that resulted
-w. -!""' v
,u lne senure, oi ins person oi rresiueni
. u..i. ..41.1. k..tv.. n.ui....
Madero and his brother Gustavo.
, The assassination of President Ma
dero and his brother followed and in
the meantime Huerta; with the mllitay
behind him, had been recognised aa the
provisional president.. His . government
failed td . Win American recognition,
however, and the pronounced hostility
of President Wilson led to his over
throw, with Carrania, Villa and Zapata
in tbe Held agaiust him. ' ,
He fled to Euroiie. returning a few
DIES
AO
mouths ago to th United States. Hare,
according to charge against him, he
plotted a return to Mexico and was ar
rested, with a number of other alleged
plotters.
- :i '''''. I i . '
$ays Governor tf Philippines Still
? Actuated By High Motives
;'v V ".-In Work ' v'-
ADMINISTRATION . EFFECTIVE
Both Houses of Insular Legisla
ture Cooperating In Carrying
; Out Policies
(Asssclstse Press t Tsaersl Wlrstses.)
WASHINGTON, Jayuary 14." The
high motive which prompted Burtoo
Harrison to accept the post of governor
general of the Philippines baa guided
his conduct in the earryihg,eut of the
duties of his position,' says Brigadier
i General Frank Miclntyre, chief of the
b"r?u,';, ?i?P . .
..rnent, in bin report to the President and
tonr. baafld on bit recent tersoaal
igress.
study of conditions in the Fhilmpin
General Mclntyre, in his report,
praises the administration of Governor
General Harrison, mad states' that the
two bouea of the present insular gov
ernment at Manila ar ee-operating for
the carrying, out. f his advanced poli
cies. The treatment ef, the Moro tribes
and the noa-CIUistiaa . inhabitants of
the provinces is mora liberal now than
it has ever been in ' the Philippines,
( showing that tbe extension of power to
Uhe ' by
I no misgiving a to the treatment of the
n0-Votin ionulation. r -
Politics in tha Philifjoiaes ia not al
lowed to enter into? le eivir service,
savs the Insular bureau, chief, who- also
report thai thethree Jwlitical parties
aifs tlie'TUipluusWii iu .A-altbig'
t he.4 passage 'f tb'measore new ,jbe
fore congress enlarging - the. autonomy
of th. isianyta. Tho least powerful f
tbe three parties is the only bine which
Is insistent on the measure naming the
date upon "which full independence to
the Philippine is to be" granted. ..-'.
1 A majority of the American M idents
of ' the Philippines favor, the passage
of the bill, he state, .provided there
is no promise contained a the measure
of ultimate independence..: : ' . ( ,
;; i . . . :
ARE REPORTED KILjD
Despatches From Hongkorjg Tell
of Bloody Fighting:
' I ASMMlsts rrsss by TimJ Wireless.)
LONDO.y, Janaary 13-Maay revo
lutionists were. kill, d oa iaiiuary 0 and
7 in bloody cnagemeni in the die
trlcts of Tarn: ul, Potonga Ycntieuwo
ai.J Polo, .according . despatch to
Renter 's Telegram Agency from Hong
kong. The revolutionists were routed.
The telegraph 'sew a'ove,' 1 obscure.
Apiarentlyit refers to Chinese rebel
lion but Tamsui is a city of Formosa,
which i undw Japanese military and
civil rule. Potonga Is ia Kwangtung,
according to local Chinese. It is hard
ly, likely that Chinese federal troop
have been in Forniqsa, nor i it likely
that there ha beea a revolt ia Japan-ese,-govt,rned
Formosa. - , - ,
MIKADO PLANS SENDING
; ENVOY TO KING GEORGE
(tpeeUt Osblscraia to Bawstt galnpo.)
TOKIO, January 14.Th Mikado
fomally announced yesterday; that he
plans sending a special, envoy to King
George of England. The misson 6f this
amtiaauHnv - will he. It 'Waa an Id. . to
will 'be, it -was said,
! cement mora firmly the Anglo-Japan-
Jese alliance, anu-io uiucusa pians or
sending Japanee troops t take part ia
tbe war in- Europe next pring.rV '
MEMBERS "oFPERMANENT
PEACE BOARD HAM ED
fiUnelu Vrsss bf ?4ml Wrralitu.) .-
' THK HAGUE, January 14 William
J. Bryan, Henrv- Ford, JancAddamt,
Dr. Aked aal Mn. Joseph' Fel were
elected as peace coinnlisloaers on the
1 permanfal pcaes board, which ii be-
in i
g organise ty th !mmiera of tb
Ford peace ' party here. . It was an
nounced that Dr. Aked is prepared to
rta'ga his church in Han Frncieo if
rewar" in order to be free to, erve
oa th boaro; ....
mm
T
111 BE HUNTED
fl
Representative of De Facto Pres
ident of Mexico In Washington
Assures Mr. Lansing Murder,
; 'of ; Americans Is Deplored
MEXICAN GOVERNMENT, , .
X ' PROMISES REPRISALS
While Diplomats Exchange Warn
ings and Regrets Both Houses
of. Congress Ring With .De
mands For Instant Intervention
: (AssoeUM rss y rsdaral WUtbrt.)
WA8HINOT0N, Janaary 1.
Wlta the anbonncement that
General Villa baa begun a cam
paign of extermination against Amer
ican' reeident la Northern Mexico,' in
revenge Xor the Ameriraa recognition
of Carransa, come an official announce
ment through th Mexican agency hare,
that an Immediate campaign against the
Tilllsta bandits baa been began, with
the OarruuM leader ordered to hunt
down aad kill VUllata wherever they
may ba found, -v .'-' V .- .
-Acting under these order, General
Bodrlguea, who la now said to hare been
In control of the T acquis who murdere
lghteen - Americana -at CuaUiulrarchlc,
abusing them befor execution and-muti-
Utlng their corps, baa been captured
aaaVwiu , executed probablv - tolay,
WitHMitm Was captured Ge&erai Al
melaa, who waa shot without a trial,
and a number Of other Villa leaders, ,
, HUNTIirO DOWN MXTEDEKEBS v
' Doctor Arredondo, the Carranaa rep
rcscutlv her,' yesterday gave sol
emn aMurrancea to Secretary ef Stats
Lansing . that the Carransa- aokUer
have been ordered to bunt down the
murderer ef the American at dual and
kill thent without mercy. Secretary
Lansing, repaying to these aasurranrea,
notified the Mexican represents tlv that
unleM ab United State can be given
6m aatiafactorr nroof tht tha nnu
I guilty of; the murder are ponlshed a
solemn crlsla may arise.
In presenting the promlM of the Mex
ican government that full Justice will
be meted out and -that every precau
tion will be taken to safeguard Ameri
cana and other foreigners, Doctor Ar
redondo aald: ,
"Th Carransa government ; deeply
deplore tha dastardly action of th
Villa forces, and energetic action wiij
be taken ah once to bring the murderers
to Justice." . .
LANSING IS8TJE8 WAENTNQS
Prior to th aasurancea of th Car
ransa snvoy, Secretary I,awlng larmsd
a new warning to American in the Mex
ican revolutionary son, urging them to
leave Mexico. He coupled this warning
to Americana with a statement address
ed to the de facto government in Mex
ico, saying that If final, proper steps
are not taken to safeguard life and
property throughout Mexico there U a
giave possibility of aa Issue arising be
tween the United States and Carrania.
' While the diplomat wer exchanging
warnings and promises, congress hum
med with indignation and calls ftr act
ion; Senator J, Ham Lewis of Chicago.
Introduced a resolution the purpose of
which la to empower th President to
ua th force of th Army aad Navy
to res-tor 'order in Mexico through arm-
ad intervention, along the lines employ
ed by th United State to suppress th
revolutions in) Nicaragua and Haytt,
where Amerlcaa llf and property were
threatened. ' : ; :
ACTION NOW NXCESSAEY
. In the bona of representative. Con
gressman Slayden of Texas spoke on
tha Mexican ousetlon, declaring that
tha time ha arrived when the Fan
American' Union, -led. by tha United
States, abottld take action ta restore
peace in the Mexican Republic, Ba ad
vocated military action. -.-.' , , '
' Th Texan stated that ha was a ejp
torter of th action of President Wil
son in th recognition- of th Carrania
government, .that .recognition having
tog beea earned. Having recognized
Carrania as the de facto Frsddsut,
Ah time had now coma to assist In
stamping out the outlawry and th
4andit:sm that prevented a return to
nettled conditions. '
The killing of Carl Kramer, aa Amer
lean, has been officially reported In de
spatches sent to Washington by Col
lector or Customs Cobb of El Paso.
Kramer was shot by Mexican baadita
near uularra.
The state dspartment la further In.
formed that at the maasacr on Tubs
day of eighteen American mining-men
two Villa colonel were In command.
OW
AND SHOT
Soldiers and
of El Paso Start War;
In Anti-Mexican Riots ?
Greasers ' Are1 Attacked Wherever Found and Fierce
Fights Force General Pershing to Declare Martial
; ' Law In Order to Prevent Great Bloodshed
Fresh Grimes Reported
(Asaociated Press by
EL PASO, January 14. "Reriember the Alamo. Did we Watch
nd Wait Then?"
I V "Remember Cusi I Shall we Watch and Wa:.i Now?"
Fifty thousand cards, carrying the above, have been distributed
here as part of the anti-Mexican outbreak which has turned this city
into a great ;rioti with Americans hunting Mexicans and driving
them out of the' city for safety. .
- American soldiers, defying their officers, have been taking part
in the anti-Mexican demonstrations and riots, while the streej
crowds ace shouting for immediate war with Mexico to avenge the
deaths of the eighteen miners at Cusihuirachic Tuesday. . TherO
have been score or more street fights in some of which Mexican:!
did not hesitate to use their knives, and as a result the doctors and'
the ambulances have been kept busy almost all day."':.' .;
'", MARTIAL LAW IS DECLARED i -."v; : :
; Early this afternoon fht police reserves Were called out., but
goon these proved unable to .restore evert a semblance of order, and .
General Persmg,'' commanding thir;department, declared the town
under, martial Jaw, and issutd the strictist "instructions against '
rioting,: doubling; the guards' at
patrol through the rest of the city.
fcven this step uid no put a full stopto. the.disturbances. Which,
continued at interv-Js during the evening, and until late at night
Four American oldiers attacked a band of Mexicans in a Mexican .
saloon and cleaned ' out' the place. - Another band of about fifty. ,
paraded the streets of the city looking for Mexicans and, vowing to
kill any they found...'. ' V' v'V-''',' '-;''': : :
The city authorities have advised all Mexicans living here td
leave the city at once, and have jailed or deported every one of the .:
Villistas Iraders who fled across the border after the defeat of their:
chief by the Carranza forces some months ago. .. ;V
Among these last was former Foreign Minister. Lombardo and
Generals Randa and Prieto, all of whom have been compelled to ;.
leave El Paso. V, ; ;, I. ',:';.;'''''
FEELING jRUNS HIGH AGAINST CONSUL '- .;-''.' ::'-1.
The feeling against Consul Edwards, American representative -at
Juarez, has grown more intense and yesterday a petition signed
by more than twenty thousand names was forwarded to Washing- ,
ton, demanding his withdrawal from his present post '
In a statement made in answer to this protest, Consul Edwards
said: ( ', .. , '. , ,--..., .;,'
"I regret that my countrymen feel about this matter aa they
do, but as for me, I have merely done what I believed to have been ';
my duty. I have warned Americans of the danger of attempting
to enter Mexico and have frequently refused to grant passports. In 4
short, I have obeyed the instructions I received fom Washington."
The petition declared that Edwards has shown a "supine in
difference in reference to the repeated wrongs suffered by his coun- "
trymen in Mexico," and has listened with "apparent, indifference" '
to the tales of outrages against American lives and property,;.1
"He has been either too indolent," the protest goes on to state, y
"or too grossly indifferent to his manifest duties in his own district
to afford aid and prospection to American rights and interests which
his oath of office compelled." ' '--"''r'- '-
FRESH OUTRAGE REPORTED DAILY -
Intense as the feelings here against Mexico and things Mexican
became when the wonton slaughter of eighteen Americans by Villa
colonels last Tuesday, reached here, it has been fanned to greate
heat by the daily and almost hourly reports of fresh outrages against
American lives and property across the border, . Texas, never slow ,
in catching fire, is flarning with indignation, and yesterday reached
the point of proposing armed intervention on the part of her ewnt
citizens if the government at Washington refuses to act The plan
that was openly discussed on all sides yesterday called for a punitive
expedition by regiment of men from the mining camps and ranches,
who can be gathered in. this city.
The plan evolved by the leaders of the movement is to forrrj
a regiment of a thousand mining men, arm and, equip thejn for a
stay in the field, .and 'enter' Mexico with the avowed purpose ofi
capturing the bandits responsible for the massacre of eighteen Am
ericans on Tuesday.'.:.'-;'
An unconfirmed report reached here today that ten American
and two English women had beep slain at Madera by a lawless band
calling themselves Villistas. One of the two English women re
ported killed is said. to have been the wife of Captain John Left
bridge, a retired English army officer living at Madera. '
TWO OTHER. MINERS UNACCOUNTED FOR
Members of the party conveying the bodies of the mining-men
killed Tuesday now fear that two others, who are unaccounted for,
' ' (Additional Wireless On Tag S) ,
Citizens
Federal Wirelesi)
Ithe international bridge and the.
V
1 1
