? BOL ? everybody who ?s really interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reads
Tne Herald. The HERALD ave.ages more than
30.000 paid circulation daily, which covers most of the
best homes in Washington.
AS fir?t announced Januar) 1. 1916. The Herald
guarantees full moeey j worth to foe pur
chasers of article? adverti*ed in the displa> column*
of this paper by any Wellington merchant.
(Circular Fu'Aiihea ? pot Retraes!)
-,
NO. 3377.
WEATHER: Colder; pai-tfy cloudy.
WASHINGTON, D. C. FRIDAY, ?JANUARY 14, 191 fi.
OSE ( ???.
? ? IK ?ebtng tna ??,? Pe'nt? ?MVart??a
Thereto II ?KM Hit!? TWO ( F %T+
SEND GEN. WOOD
TO MEXICO WITH
ARMY-URGEST.R.
Coionel Says Intervention Is
More justifiable Than It
Was in Cviban Trouble.
HITS WILSON'S POLICY
Says Watchful Waiting May
Result in European Power
Getting Mexico Later.
SCORES LANSING'S WARNING
Declare? Evil Day of Reckoning Is
Ahead for U. S. Unless "Crimi
nal Negligence" Ceases.
By JAMES J. MONTAGUE.
New York. Jan. 13.?Theodor? Roose
velt'? solution of the Mexican cristi Is
to ?end Oen. Wood with an army into
Mexico forthwith to restore order, exactly
as he -eetored order la Cuba after the
Spanish war. And there can be no doubt
that were Roosevelt President of the
felted State?. Wood, at the iMad of an
array, and backed by a fleet, would now
be on hla way.
In CoL Roosevelt'? Tlew. there ? a
h*indr?sd tlm??*? as much reason for armed
tr,t?*-feren??e tn Mexico as there was for
armed Interference tn (Tube.
H? beBeves that only by auch mean?
can the repetition of such outrages as
that of Monday be prevented.
He used short and ugly words In dis
cussing the administration's European
policy, which he said ls very likely to
restait ta the taking over of Mexico by
?im or more of the belligerents when
peace is restored.
Incidentally he hetd Mr. Wllaf?. re
sponsible for the struggle that his Demo
cratic associates. Bryan, Hay and Kitch
en, are making to defeat the popular de
termination to be prepared against ag
gression.
"This '.-?* '.'?? outrage)," he began, "Is
only an Inevitable oetcome of the policy
that has been followed in Mexico ? for
the past flve years and above all for
th? last three years.
Hits ? a..-?. '-,? n.iii.i
"The policy of watchful watting, the
policy of not Interfering; with "blood
spilling.* the policy of asking South
and Central American republics to
take from us the responsibilities that
we were too --tir? Id to take, has born
Its fruits."
Mr. Roosevelt paused, and glared
Into the roaring open fire for a minute.
Then he got Into his stride.
"Tn the past," he salii,- "Carransa.
whom President Wilson has recognised
as forming the government of Mexico,
has done to our people Just exactly such
things as these VlllUtas have done. It
ts not a year since Mr. Wilson sent Gen.
Scott down to the border to make a
treaty wtth VtUa, who had already com
mitted outrages of this kind, and out
rages not only against men but against
?romiti. President Wilson has permitted
these factions to get from us the arms
wtth which they have killed Americas
private citizens and American soldiers,
and the husbands and fathers of the
women whom they have outraged.
There Is a hundred times more Justi
fication for Interference In Mexico than
there was for Interference In Cuba. We
should have Interfered years ago. Wa
should act through th? regular army, for
this kind of work Is not the work torn
volunteers.
Kiaeks ? ?? Proad te Ki?h ? *
"But In noting the effect of watchful
waiting In Mexico don't forget the effect
in the world war of our policy of being
too proud to fight.
"The its-patches from Washington In
dicate tliat the pressure of the Knglish
fleet has caused Germany and Austria to
believe tt unsafe to carry on further sub
marine warfare against helpless passen
ger ships. The dispatches Indicate that
having thus forced the British navy to
abandon the practices of wholesale mur
der of aon-combatants? women and chil
dren?on the high ?seas, they Intend to
make believe they abandon It at Prsst
OOSTTNCrD O!? PAOB TWO
NO PARTY QUARRELS IN
FRANCE, HE MAINTAINS
M Deschanel Declares Germans Are
Spreading Rumors to Divert At
tention from Their Diftculties.
By CHARLES F.- BERTELLI.
Paria Jan. li?A plea for unity was d.?
llvered in the chamber of deputies today
by Paul Deschanel. who ha? been re
eleetad president of that body.
"Germany in order to divert the
world's sttentton from her increasing
difficulties. Is trying to repr?*?t your
1-gitlmate discussions as party quar
rels. * said M. Deschanel. "Tou will avoid
giving the enemy any ground for such
charges In the future. I am sure. Tou
never have attempted to mix yourse'.ve?
with military operations or diplomacy.
The government has had complete eonfl
dt?n4** tn three discussions.
"France can say today that strength,
like matter Is perishable, but Justice.
Like the genius of Francs, is Immortal '
VERDI SAILS
WITH 2 GUNS
Italian Liner Permitted to
Leave on Promise Guns
Are for Defense Only.
ASSURANCES FROM EMBASSY
MAKE A DISPUTE UNLIKELY
Rules May Be Revised So as to Pro
hibit Armed Ships from
Leaving in Future.
Srssctal to Tlie Ws*bln?ton Herald
New York, Jan. 13.?The Italian steam
er Gulseppl Verdi sailed for Genoa today
twenty-four hours 1st? because of delay
In receiving permission from Secretary
McAdoo to leave port with two three
Inch ?runs mounted on her stern.
It la understood permission finally ws?
given on the promise of the Italian Am
bassador that the run, would be used
for defensive purposes only.
The White Star liner Adriatic sailed
for Liverpool with 130 passengers and
nearly 18,000 Ions of war munition.*
The permission of the department
srraanted In the case of the Verdi fa not
to be taken as laying down a principle
for the guidance of other vessels, accord
ing to department officials. It was given
In the Verdi case only upon receipt of
assurances tn writing from the Italian
Ambassador.
N-misaiirr No? Vlalatara*.
Under the circumstances It Is obvious
ly assumed by the authorities of the
State Department that its aclon is suf
ficient to comply with the obligations im
posed upon this glvernment by Its decla
ration of neutrality. The assurance thst
the guns mounted on the Verdi ?rtll not be
used to attack a submarine while being
warned eliminates the most likely cause
of controversy.
Although granting permission for the
Qulseppe Verdi to sail under the pledge
given, the State Department, ofrlolals say,
still has under consideration the advis
ability of revising Its rules so as to
permit no v?asete csrryfng guns to leave
American ports In Urna of war between
other nations: and to propose to the
belligerent powers a complete disarm
ament of all their passenger liner* sail
ing the hlarri sess.
This considers tiran has srlsen from a
realization on the part of th* depart
merit that the appearance of the sub
marine has so altered naval warfare aa
to make It practically Impossible to draw
a just distinction between armament on
merrnant vessels that la Intended for de
fense and that Intended for offense.
Austrian Fleet Concentrates.
Rome, Jsn. IS.?The entire AusVrlan
fleet. Includine three Dresdnoughts.
hsve been concentrated ln tha Gulf of
Cattro.
Maids Boycott "Slacken."
Parts. Jan. 13.?The young unmarried
women of Brittany have formed an asso
ciation to boycott all bachelors who fall
to enlist
HUERTA GALLED
BY DEATH SAYS
"I FORGIVE ALL"
Mexico's Former Dictator
Breathes Last at Daugh
ter's El Paso Home.
ROBLES BLAMES THE U. S.
Secretary to General Says
Condition Result of His
Incarceration.
HAD BEFRIENDED AMERICANS
Last Rites Adminis'tered by Catholic
Priest and His Will Signed After
Unction Is Given.
Sprtrial tn The Waahlnstoo Herald.
El Paso, Jan. 13.?Gen. Victoriano
Huerta, former dictator and Pro
visional President of Mexico, died at
S.3B o'clock this evening at his daugh
ter's home here.
His death had momentarily been ex
pected ?tnce yesterday afternoon.
A Catholic priest hsd been ln the
house three dsys to give absolution
Gen. Huerta's **wlll was signed last
night aTter the administration of the
last rite?.
He asked for a lawyer to say that
he had forgiven his enemies.
Gen. Aleseso Robles, private secre
tary to the general, issued the fol
lowing ststement tonight:
"In the actual moment of gravity of
Gen. Huerta's condition, I wish to
state, regarding the unjust and cruel
treatment given by the United States
government, that the treatment is re
sponsible for his present condition.
"When he was President of Mexico,
he gave all guarantees to Americans
and regardless of the many difficulties
he had met within his administration.
When in thla country he was thrown
Into Jail like a common criminal and
his health was speedily broken down,
causing his death.
??????? "????" BLAST.
Oa Poat Plant at Portland Shaken.
Arrest at KUinn
Portland. Maine, Jan. 13.?An explosion
that it was felt five miles sway occurred
today ln the Newhall plant of tha du
Pont Powder Company.
Elkton, Md., Jan. U?Ernest Peske,
who claims to be a German, has been
arrested here ln connection with the re
cent explosions In the du Pont Powder
Works. Ms'. Sylvester, chief of the du
Pont secret service force, questiona
Peske. The suspect was not employed
ln the du Pont plant
Civic Bodies Back Plan to
Pension Police and Firemen
Commissioner Brownlow, President Moran, of Chamber of
Commerce, and President Colladay, of Citizens Federa
tion, Pledge Union for Retirement Idea.
The support of the Chamber of Com- !
merce, the District Commissioner?, and
the Federation of Citizens* Associations
was pledged last night to legislation pro- ?
vldiit?; for an equitable and just pension
for police and firemen by speakers at
the fourteenth annual installation of of
ficer? of the Policemen's Association of
the District at Pythian Temple,
"I think there ts an excellent chance I
of legislation at this session, providing
for an adequate and Just pension fund,"
said Commissioner Louis Brownlow. "I
am proud to be the civilian head of what
1 think Is the Very best police depart
ment in the country. The Commission
ers are in favor of a pension law that
will enable the payment of 100 cents on \
the dollar. We also desire, the elimina
tion of the Police Court fines from the
fund." ?
< It Ism? Go on Record.
P. T. Moran, president of the Chamber
of Commerce, said that pension legisla
tion would receive the support of that
?body. Mr. Gude and myself can almost \
promise you that the Chamber of Com- j
mere? will back the pension legislation 1
unanimously." he said.
"AH the citizens' associations of the I
District are In favor of adequate pensions!
for police and firemen," said E. V. Colla-1
day. president of the Federation of CltM
tens' Associations. They have frone on j
record for the project and now we must;
work to have the legislation enacted.'
Repreeentatlve Henry T. Helgesen, of
North Dakota, MaJ. Raymdiid ?*T. Pull
man, and George W. Sollers, also spoke.
William S. Shelby, of the Fourth Pre-]
clnct, presided as chstrman, and hsd
charge of the Installation of officers. At
the lianquet ?A'hlch followed, he wa? toast
' master.
The prostrimi of entertainment Included
selection? by Hie Lafayette Olee <*lub;
chalk talk by Richard H. Mansfield, of the
Sixth Prerln't; and vocal solos by Wil
son Oliver, of the Washington Klre De
partment.
?Smith F.lrrted Preside?*!.
Klghteen new members were elected
snd fifty three reinstated. The presest
membership Is over 4Ct>
The new uftlcers are C. E. Smith, of
the Tenth Precinct, president: "Walsh'
Sanford. of the Ninth Precinct, vice presi
dent; William J. Mshoney. at the Sixth
Precinct, second vice president; William
Soliera, of the Fourth Precinct, recording
secretary; J. E. Wilson, _*>f the Third
Prea'lnet, financial secretary; and I.leut.
C. P. M. Lord, of the Tenth Precinct,
treasurer.
The committee whirl] had charge of
the Iranquet and entertainment last night
consisted of George Soliere, chairman:
'J. K. Thompson, J R. Hood. J U Bill
man, J. C Mahoney, E. H. Seaman. Sam
Edwards. K. R Peterson, and C. B.
, Bhowalter.
Ben Johnson Enlists in Crusade
Against * 'Fake* ' ^Advertising
-
Chairman of House District Committee Displays Intense
Interest in Merchants' Crusade?Will Present Bill to
Congress After Making It More Drastic.
Th? rampa',?., of the Ratall Merchants'I
Association ?against fak* advertising, |
fakt? aurt;oneera, and worthless check?.
was given additional Impetus yesterday
when Chairman Ben Johnson, of the
House District Committee, gave the cru
sade his personal and whole-hearted In
dorsement.
Three bills, designed to rectify the
three evils of which the merchants com
plain, werV considered by Representative
Johnson ln detail for more than an
hour and a half at a conference with
a delegation from the Retail Merchants'
Association.
Mr: Johnson not only displaced In
tense Interest In the campaign against
fakers, but ofTered numerous suggestiona
for the amendment of the proposed billa
so as to make them even more drastic
In .natrar?. These bills were left with I
Chairman Johnson an-I wii* he i-ed rafted1
Immediately tn eliminate certain weak-j
nesees and Increase the effectiveness of
the measures.
The delegation that railed on Repre
sentative Johnson was composed of Ross
? Andrews, president of the Retell Mer
chant?' Association; Chss-les J. Colum
bus, s-scretary; M. D. ftosetberc?, ren
erai counsel; and Roger J. WhlteNxrd.
sssistant corporstion counsel. Mr. White
ford has co-operated with the merchants
In the drafting of the propose?! legisla
tlon. The bill aimed at fake auctioneers
was drafted jointly by Mr. Whlteford and !
Mr. Rosenberg.
The chairmen of the committees ap
pointed b? the retail merchants to push
the three campaigns are: Jeseph Berbe
rlch, false advertising; Gerson Nordllnger,
fake aurtlonwrs; and M D Rosenberg,
worthless checks.
Mr. Andrews, president nf the fissoci?
tlon, was ?snthusiastlc last night over tht
Interest taken In the campaign by Repre
sentative Johnson.
"The cordiality and Interest that
Chairman Johnson accorded the me??
chants was more than gratifying." he
said. "We certainly had a practical
demonstration of Mr. Johnsons interest
In the District. He is thoroughly Inter
ested tn our plans for legislation cover
ing the uttering and tendering of bao
checks, the holding? of fake suctions and
the printing of false advertising- H*
made very valuable suggestions for I
changes In the hills that the merchants;
presented, pointing out weaknesses and
opportunities for Increasing the en*ectl*r?
tiess of th,e measurea
"The bills were left In Mr. Johnson'?
care and will be amended by him and
?resented to Congress st a very early
date. We were thoroughly impressed
with Mr. Johnson's capacity as a law
maker through the Inequalities and
shortcomings that he readily found In the
hills as drafted, one of which Is a meas
ure of ustionai interest.
"I am sure thst the members of the
association, and the people of Washing
ton generaly, are Indebted to Mr John
son for the thorough and businesslike
manner in which he took up this legisla
tion. It is pleasant to contemplate that
those who know Mr. Johnson best realise
that when he goes into a movement ht
stlckn until there Is a definite and satis
factory conclusion."
Chinese Revolutionists Routed.
Shanghai. Jan. U.-^After a th risa-da y
battle in the districts of Tamsui, Pcsjong.
Yentsuwo and Poklo, the Chinese rovo
lutionista have been routed with severe
losses. Numerous prisoners w?;re taken.
Government leaders claim to be making
rapid progress in quenching the anti
monarchist lires in southern China.
Three Hurt in Wreck.
Milwaukee, Wie., Jan. 13? Three per
sons were probably fatally hurt when a
Chicago-bound passenger train on the:
North western Railroad crashea Into the|
rear ofva Madison train at Allis, a sub
urban station More than a dozen other
persons were seriously Injured.
OM..V G-? HOIRS T<? HA* AV*.
Atlantic foe* Une. "Plori?!? A *?4?-?t Indian
Limited." All Fiori?]? retet-i? react???! ti Us?as
?toll?/. ?? ?. T. A??. W. W.-aa?.
THE HERALD FIRST WITH THE NEWS
decides half FISCAL BOARD REPORT
!&???'%0 repudiates districts
hACf-And-half plan
?grears^Repo^Ior?D.
?-Mat ion. -^?
EMPHASIZES L\V INTEREST
IN THE CAPITALS WELFAJtt
Present Tax Rate and Assessment Methods
Upheld by Joint Select (Committee?Lib
eral Treatment^ Capital Is.Urged
Finding?. It I? ?Said, Will Be Sub
mitted to Congress Not Later
Than January 10.
By JO*lTJ*H F. ??????.
A practically unanimous report, ellm
tnating the half-and-half provision of
the District'* organic act from exist
ing law. but containing a strong pro
nouncement of the Federal govern
ment's vital responsibility for the de
velopment of the National Capital.
STAND FORECASTED BY HERALD
Under Proposed System Federal Government Would
Pay Difference Between Local Revenues and Es
timates Prepared by Commissioners.
has virtually basen decided upon by the
Joint select committee created to re
port on the fiscal relations between
?*.he District and the Federal govern
ment, according to information from a
usually reliable source.
The report ?rill be made not later
than January 10, under an agreement
reached between Senator Chllton,
chairman of the select committee, and
House leaders yesterday. Except, for
the annotation of certain references
to testimony, tile report Is now ready
for printing.
The committee report, in recom
mending the elimination of the half- !
and-half feature of the present law, I
takes the position urged by the two!
civilian Commissioners, that the half
and-half provision ts a constant source
ot Irritation, and that It results In a
much less favorable attitude on the
part of Congreas toward the District
thsn would be the case if Federal con
trlbution to the maintenance of the
District aa-as on an indeterminate
basis.
The report, ln addition to urging the
By JOSEPH P. AN*il>.
Repudiating the half-and-half provision of the organic act
of 1878, except as it applies to the payment of interest on the
funded debt of the Dstrict, upholding as just and equitable the
present tax rate and methods of assessment in the District, and
replete with ringing pronouncements of the responsibility of the
Federal government for the maintenance and development of the
National Capital along lines of municipal grandeur, the unani
mous report of the Joint Select Committee on the fiscal relations
between the Federal government and the District -was submitted
to Congress yesterday.
The Washington Herald was the only newspaper to forecast
accurately, not only the general tenor of the report?the most
important District document in more than thirty years?but the
'principal findings of fact as
well. December 18 The Herald
informed its readers that the
above conclusions had been
Federal government to aid In the de
velopment of the National Capital, I
takes the position . that the present
rate of taxation should not be changed !
pending a thorough Investigation by
a governmental agency with a view
reached by the committee, and
that the report probably -would
r.?pon.iilrility which devolves upon the| less than In other comparable cities." ? be Unanimous.
to determining whether the actual
burden of taxation here Is greater or
Rosad-Up of Mexicans
Canse? El Paso Rieb
BULLETIN
El Pi?, Jaa. 13?Martial
law hai been declared ia thii
city a> result of the race riot?.
Hl??**???! to The *i?k?tihist?? Heral4 ,
El Paso, Jan. 13.?Rioting be
tween Americans and Mexicans
broke out here tonight during
the round-up of Mexicans who
had been associated with Villa.
8y 10 o'clock a number of en
counters were in progress be
tween American soldiers and
Mexicans. Knives were' being
used freely. Every ambulance
in the city was calieri into requi
sition, and surgeons were
answering calls in every quar
ter.
Shortly before 10 o'clock
about fifty soldiers started out
through the main thoroughfare.
Police reserves were called
out and orders were to keep all
pedestrians on the move.
VILLA CHIEFS
ARE CAPTURED
Gen. Rodriguez Reported
Taken by Carranza Troops.
Gen. Almeida Shot.
15,000 CARRANZISTAS READY
TO RUN VILLA'S ARMY DOWN
?re -?? ? Tbe '-'?XJtv r.r at rteram.
El Paso. Jan. IS.?G?sn. Jose Rodriguez
Gen. Almeida, and several other Villa
chieftains have been ?raptured. Almeida
was shot Immediately. Tbe summary
executlat of Rodrigues has been ordered
This news from authoritative ?oxircas
was r??c??T?*-d bere tonight. It was for
ward?-?] at once to the State Department
at Wsshington. The captures were mads
by 4~*arransa forctss near Madera. De
tail? thus far are lacking The execu
tions were ordered by Qen. Gavlra. com
mahdlng the garrison at Juar-ex Rod
rigues Is Villa? iM. ?nd atcotrt tr.
ronunand. First reports put on Rod
-ig?es direct re* pon sibil it y for the ,-?-.p;?
Ysabe! massacre This was m?>dtfled
later by stories thst Reyna. Lopes, ?and
Beltran were tn direct command at tbe
time.
Fifteen thousand Carransa cavalrymen
are being moboUsed at Tonlchl, Sonora,
to run to earth the ragged remnants e?f
Villa's army. This announcement was
mede today by Tver O. Uelever. Mexican
consul at Douglas, Aria
Krcllaa a? White Heat.
Villa ls reported In the Madera district
of Western Chihuahua on the North
western Railway. Public feeling was
kept at white heat all ?lay by rumors :
of their murders and the arrival of the
bodies of the eighteen victims from Santa I
Ysbel. Confirmation was received of the
killing of Oeorge E. Parsons, at Babrl
cora ranch, and Bart Kramer and
Peter Kean. They alao met their ?loathe
at the hands of Villa's bandita
A special train chartered by El Paso
cttlsens la bringing out of Chihuahua
every man, woman and child of Ameri- '
can origin.
A movement ls afoot to organlxs a regi- ?
ment of 1.00O Americans' to avenge tbe I
murders of theV fellow cltlxens. Its I
organisers say they will seek Carrancas ;
approval.
All Mexicans In El Paso known to have
been allied with the Villa ckusc are be- ?
Ijig rounded up and Jailed Among the ?
prisoners Is Miguel Dias Lombardo
?.a's minister of foreign relations
he bodies of the Americans slaught- '?
I at Santa ? sabe! reached El Pas? |
kmomlng- The head? of many of the ?
? na were almost blosrn off. F ?. !
I ?enson, seeretsry of the Mining As- j
. ..atlon of Chihuahua, which organised
the r?scu? party, aald:
m "The victims were stripped before be
ing dragged out of thm cars and killed *
Parsons, one of three mes whose de?*hi?
were conflrmed by the day's dlspst-he?
was prospecting near Babrlco ran? h
F tsars are tm\t tor dwellers In the Mor
mon colony tn the Casas Grande district
There are more than fifty Mormon fami
lle In the community, all AmerTean?
They have been advised to come tt? the
l'nited States at onci?.
CALL KAISER'S SISTER
AND PRINCE TO BERLIN
Tageblatt Insists That the Em
peror Is Suffering Only
from a ".Boil."
IiOndon. Jan. IS.? Although rumor* hav*
been circulated again declaring that the
illness of Kaiser Wilhelm is ao serious
aa to cause aia/m, there seem? to be no
basis for them, and the aesuraJice that
the Emperor is suffering merely from a
'boll*' were reiterated In the Berlin
Tageblatt today. This n**e In the Tare
Watt ls the only direct information con
cerning the Kaiser"? illneas. Bot ?igniti
canee is attached in varita? circles to
the reports that th* Crown Prinoe has
been summoned to Berlin to dtecuss Im- I
portaat matters tn the evert of the Em
peror's lllne-s* being proloncvd Accord
ing to a Rome dispatch the Qu-et-n of
Greeet, a sister of the Kaiser, has be-e?
summoned to hi? bedside -and ?be will
leaye Athen? at eoo*
WILSON STILL CLINGS
TO WATCHFUL WAITING
PROGRAM IN MEXICO
Lansing Holds .Nothing Can Be Done Unti'
Carranza's Responsibility Is Established.
Warns Americans to Leave.
Despite the -rfood of appeals fof action from all parts of the cmi*****?
and the storm of indignation in Ccmgress as the result of the massaac
of seventeen or more Americans in Mexico, the administration yester
day gave no sign of changing its Mexican policy. s
There wete^developments aplenty, som? of them as nmMtiirrf M
any that stirred Washington .on Wednesday," but nowhere could there
be found last night an administration official who would venture the
opinion that the murder of the Americans would call forth anything
more severe than the ''request*' already sent to Gen. Carranra fcr the
punishment of those who ctrnimjiled the crime.
From the State I>epartment came an Amerscaaa. ? ? inulti?? ami ts? aakeal If
outline of it* poalUor Aoeordln*? to th* ina-e?jtl*-attor pro?**? ?a ha* u-?vS asasars
department ? slew nothing car be de- ; reaaonable aatort to attera them pco????
trrmlned until Carranza ? re?jsoanB,i?H| tsora. tba Stata Dein 11 a? ?all Is
I? as;?? ??bed If ? ts shown thst Car- ?
rani? wa* lax In hi? ?floa-ts to prssa.?"x-t ?BMrnrH U> OS" r*o? TWO
"The Straw That Broke
the Camel9s Back"
The Addition
of the
FOUR-COLOR
MAGAZINE SECTION
TO THE NEW
ONE-GENT
SUNDAY HERALD
Beginning Next Sunday
OFFERS 4SQLJTER-A TTRACTION
0P1P;AIOR MERIT
R^VER Y FEA TURE OF
THE OTHEJr SUND A Y PAPERS
FOR WHICH YOU PA Y
5 CENTS
WHAT CAN
( YOU GET
- ' FOR THE,
OTHER 4 CENTS
In the Other -\
Sunday Morning Newspapers ?
See Page 4?Today's Herald
?
?
You might just as well fill in and mail th? coupon belo*?', or
phone Mam 3300 RIGHT NOW. It will save you turning baca
to this page
You can get a home delivery of the Sunday HEaRALD every
week for ONE CENT?or the Dailv and Sundav every day for
JO CE.KTS A MONTH.
Daily, lc??Sunday, lc
SEND IN YOUR ORDEk NOW.
NAME .'.
ADDRESS .:.?
