El
ym t mm
GREATEST CITY STILL RURAL.
Free common for cows on Manhattan
Island and the financial district at night
show a city of marvellous contrasts.
IN THE SUN NEXT SUNDAY.
"I
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and colder to-day; fair, continued ;'
cold, to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, ft; lowesfcjf!.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pace II.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 136.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Printing and Publishing AetocMlon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
Jstm.
MONTENEGRO IS
OUTOFTHEWAR,
LONDON HEARS
Armixliee Reported
llnvc Been Arranged
AVith Austria.
to
1)1! I VK OX SALOX1 C A
LACKS CONFIRMATION
French Tell. However, of
JMowinjr Ip Bridges
Near Frontier.
fpn ial Inble Tf patch to Tnr. Sex
1,.im-:. .Ian, 14. London learned last
right tl.it Austria nml Alontenegro have
mrrce.l to an nrmltlce. thus practically
endirg the little kingdom's part In the
Th" Aii'lrlnns have taken NJegusI,
f.ie mills northwest of the capital. The
litter hits been evucunteil, according to
Scutari advices, the Montenegrin Oov
rtnnieiit having been moved probably to
Prtttarl. The latter city Is threatened
also liv a tlulgnrlan Invasion. Uurario
nnl Avloun, the chief Adriatic coast
titles "f Albania, are menaed by the
mitre ninl left wing of the Bulgarian
Invading nrmy
The fortified Montenegrin city of
Atitlvarl, near the coast and due west I
ct S utarl. Is under lire by Austrian long
... -. i , . , , -
""r "n" w ui nr-
tiller and the scarcity of supplies and
food the Montenegrins nre not believed
to Ih able to hold out any w here.
Tne Viinrs sae ;
"Italy's interests In Montenegro are
s Important as Kngland's In the open
ing of tin Datdanellc.. The prospective '
annihilation of Montenegro will hve
fur Tenoning maritime consequences In
the eastern Mediterranean."
FOE NEAR CETTINJE.
Humor Maya MnntrnrKrlna tre ot
Iteslstlnir iitrluii.
$ptcial Cable DttnUck to Tai So.
rtniu:, Jan. 13. It Is rumored that
the Austrlane are only six miles 'from ,
'Cettlnje, tho Montenegrin capital, and
' C. : Vr .'r'"' . r : ,..".. ""
' ' '"VE "i
evIdenUy I. withheld and the silence Is
ominous. In the ot.lnlon of mllltnr
ominous. In the opinion of mllltarv ob
lervers.
Kitmora are to the effect that thj
Montenegrins are helpless, have lost hore
ni are not resisting the Austrian In
vasion. The attack uiwn Mount Lovcen,
combined with tho land and sea attack
I.. CAAAA l...l.l.. V... . . 1 ul .
I.. uu.UUi, uii.en .no
.Montetiegt Ins from their best strategical
loxttlons, while three Austrian dread-1
riiiiKiiis in mo ccnc, in vaiiaro ana l
fcir cruisers In the Hay of Trieste (an
cpen bight in the Adriatic a little south
it of Cattaro) simultaneously bom
Vanled Iivcen.
U Ik retiotted on apparently good au
thority that previous to the attack Ger
many warned Alontcnegro and offered
a reparate peace, which
Kmc Nicholas. Prince von
ormer Imperial Oennan Chancellor, who
"ae on an extended visit to Switzerland
e.en'i . nart neen eliirustect with effort '
for an "apptoachment" with Alonta-.
nesro.
Au--tri.i, It Is believed, may be satis- '
Tied with the poswsalnn of Mount Ivcen I
rn condition that the Montenegrins trans-
fer their capital to Nlkelo Instead of
Scutari, thui. facilitating a future attack
on the latter city. i
I'alian newspapers apical to the Allies, i
foi .:r.:tiedlnte Intervention to wure Alon
ter.egro ftom tho fate of Serbia. King
.WVjlaa of Alontenegro Is quoted as
yig
'tiv.en is the Olympus of our race,
the . t.kii, of tho dynasty, the stronghold
l u t-sistfd the Invivslon of the Turks,
vn when they reached the walls of
V!r"-n l.ovcen Is tnon precious than
if it were ,1 col'insal dlutnond."
T' K tig's hurried return from the
Italmi front after an eight months ab
HT.f t inn Home was caused by alarm
ing reprnts of the progress of the Aus
tria 't.vaslon, said to have been sent
'o i u ineeii Helemi. Upon reachlnc
ttnrtv Ins Majesty at once sent for Baron
Si.tiii. the Foreign Allnlster, with
h" n in was In conference until early
to-rid' .
The Montenegrin Crown Prince, Dan
ll ex.indrm. and the Crown Princess
Ju . naraed Home from Cettlnje a few
r.i 'i s i.f'iie the King arrived from the
'r.r They vlsltml Haron Sonnlno nnd
crp pi audience by the Klnf,
to ttn ii tnej presentnl n personal ap
I.' f-'-n the aged .Montenegrin King for
hslp
' wuji teiorted to-day that Queen
ii i daughter of tho Alontenegrln
r i'r i .in .iriti'iit svrnmitlilzer with
if
pie. Ik playing a leading role In
'..tenies that may cause a star
.ing, in affairs In the Halkans.
tr. .
t.,,.,4 ,
BRIDGES BLOWN UP.
Allies In (ireeer Take Step to Hin
der Teuton Drive,
krraii Cable Vttpatch o T
! m. Jan 13. The first battle on
Oik .., : between the Franco-Ilrltlsh
'" es intrenched around Salonlca and
the linn armies, Austro-Oorman, flul
Kar ' ' Turk, reported to be sweeping
tlo'Ati ),, the Allies Is believed to be
'nrnlt em While to-day brought no offl
dal 'onilrm.itlon of the Athens reporta
thm th. Teuton drive has begun, the
Yifr.r-r-, War Otllce referred for the first
thru. M.veral weeks to the army of tho
O'l'tiL The statement saya:
Army of the Orient There Ii noth
ing to report from the Greek front.
ur Plan of defence made It necessary
'"i u to blow up the railroad bridges
t Denilr Hlnsar and Klllndlr.
Hep Is believed to have been
'"'en prtparatoiy to meeting the re
ported onrush of the Invader. Both
P.KCfs mentioned are itritegieally Im
portant. Demlr HUiar, on the River
MruniH, represent the furthermost
northeastern rw.lnt of tlie allied Una In
U'l-ece it la the northernmost! station
Continued fourth Pap).
Ex-Dictator Huerta Dies
Forgiving His Enemies'
General's Secretary Blames
This Government for
Causing His Death.
PRIEST ADMINISTERS
FINAL ABSOLFTIOX
Had Been in House Three
Days to Console the
Sufferer.
F.I. Paso, Tex., Jan. 1 3. Cirri. Vic
torlano Huerta, former dictator and pro
visional President of Mexico, died at
8 :3S o'clock this evening nt his daugh
ter's home here. IIU death had mo
mentarily been expected since yesterday
afternoon. A Catholic priest had been
In the house three days to gle absolu
tion. Gen. lluerta's will wins signed last
night after the administration nf the
last rites. He asked his lawyer to say
that he hod forgiven his enemies. Gen.
Alesso Itobles, private secretary to the
General, Issued the following statement
this afternoon:
"In the actual moment of gravity In
(Jen. Huerta'a condition I only wish to
state regarding the unjust and cruel
treatment given to him by the United
States Government that the treatment
Is responsible for Ills present condition.
"When he was President of Mexico !i
gave all guarantees to Americans re
gardless of die many difficulties he had
met with in Iilc administration.
. .'.',n hl" country he was thrown Into
1 1 II ll 1 I I Ll.
jui, i.ni u t w M 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 v 1 1 1 . i M i ii I niii, iil
nlth wna completely broken down
I causing his death."
HUERTA, AN INDIAN,
ROSE FROM PEONAGE
Itrlenlle.a Warrliir nnd t'nllril '
the Mrilcnn aplrnn. I
lluerta's friends have euloslied hlin .
laud declared that he whs the Napoleon '
of Mexico; his enemies h.we denounced
him as the most unscrupulous dictator
Latin America ever knew, as the mur
derer of President Mudero, a traitor to
his country, as a man become rich by
despoiling his nations treusury. I
Hut this has boen conceded by ene
mies and friends alike that he was one
of the. strongest men that Mexico has
seen in recant years.
Hli strength was armed strength: an
. VT1"." "' "l.l?' "" "l'"t was unable to capture Zapata.
beon assailed by his opponents, but his I
.m,f. h.t. r.r.tin,.i .t,, ,.u uK. 1
,
eolutely neceisary to Instil peace In Alex-
lco- . ... ,
Hut for seventeen months Huerta. as
provisional President of .Mexico, held .
hla power In a country torn by Internal
ntrtfe. Dllrlnff that time lie lluirrantlv .
. .. . .. .. .. . ... .. . . .1
insuiien me uniieo stales, wmcn nan
refused to recognize him. When he
nnallv left Alexlco he was reputed to
be worth from IC.000.ono to 115.000.000. '
A Pull III). oiled Indian.
Ills rise was all the more startling In
view of his early upbringing. Victoriano
Huerta woo a full blooded Indian He t
was bom in Cototlan, State of Jalisco,
waa refused by I on .P10 ..f r " ' . ,,'-olo",a" wns an other canipalgn asaln't Zata. Huerta he won'.l hold her to a strict ac.-ount-on
Huelow. tne I In"lan vla. and Huerta. s parents nd Zapata kept up u running tight, Ith ability If she ank the! ships. ICIght
were P0"" 01 lne w'"t c'i"afr J,e
boy' dressed In a cheati cotton tunic.
'" ... "'.
thousands of Indian noys in .Mexico,
playing In the dirt, and living chiefly
on beans.
However, the village priest taught him
t read and write, and It wan this fact
which gave Huerta his chance to enter
the army.
When he was IS ears old Gen. Do-
nata "iuerra passen mrnugii woicuiau
on Ills way id quell a small reoeuion.
I He needed the services of a clerk nnd
Huerta got the Job. Thrown Into close
j relations with Guerra the boy told the
NEW INTERESTS PAY
CDRTISS $8,500,000;
Gets 85,000,000 in Cnsh
United Aero Companies In
corporated nt Albany.
The Curtlss Aeroplane and Alotor
Corporation of Buffalo, which was
formed a few weeks ago after a syndi
cate headed by William Alorrls Imbrle
& Co. of 61 Hroadway had bought con
trol of the old Curtlss Aeroplane Com
liany and the Curtlss Alotor Company,
was Incorporated In Albany yesterday.
With the news of the Incorporation
the true figures of what Glenn Curtlss,
. - . ..I . II,.., I,..r. ru l.lu
t for h7s noWIni i n the old
companies were disclosed. The first Item
In the payment was $5,000,000 In rash,
He also .receiveii. ii w s- ...
of the 7 per cent, cumulative preferred
stock and "5,000 shares of common
stock having no par value. The shares
are underwritten by the syndicate,
which l composed of muny of the
strong banks and business houses. The
capitalization of the old companies was
13,000,000, The business In the past
year was In excess of 15,000,000, and
orders and contracts have been received
which amount to between $13,000,000
and $15,000,000 and which. It Is ex
pected, will show a profit of between
$C,000,000 and $7,000,000.
Mr. Curtlss and James Imbrle have
been elected trustees, which means that
the control of the stock for the next five
yeans has been placed In their hands.
A third trustee, It Is expected, will be
named in a few dans. The directors
of the new corporation are Olenn H.
Curtlss, Monroe Wheeler, Kenneth n.
McDonald and Harry C. Oenun of Huf
falo; O. Ry Hall of Hammondsport,
and James Imbrle, C. Horace Conner,
Murray W. Dodge, George Q. Palmer
and Hormon S. Oraves of New York.
The capitalisation of the corporation
la as follows i $3,000,000 In serial 6
per cent, notes, 6,000,00(1 $1 shares of will undountedly lie credited lo Pitts
7 per cent, cumulative preferred stock burg, hut there Is no Indication he will
and 150,000 shares of no par value I chance his residence from Valley Forge
common stock. I n eastern Pennsylvania.
'pggfjggg
V&fs 'gflgggf
"SgggV
K3
Copyright b)' t'ndrrwnod JL I'nderwood
Victoriano Huerta.
ttellrr.it fh.tt I, -,.. lit., .imt.ltlim I., liln
the army, Gucrr'ii took him to Mexico
city and prevailed upon President Diaz
to appoint Huerta to the Chapultepec
Military Academy In 18 7G Huerta was I
graduated with honors.
Fur tho next twentv e.irs he led the :
life of an army officer, with little nc-1
live sen Ire to !erforni except an occa
slou.il excursion against brigands. In
IS !0 he was promoted to a l'olnnrlc
and recalled Ui Mi'.xico city, where be
1 1'iniiined lor ten cars with the General
Staff, being In charge of the topographi
cal and astronomical departments. In
1P01 he quelled a rebellion of the Yaqtil
Indians, and us a reward for this he
was maun a llrigadlcr-Gener.il.
,,,r..M ,..
This made him one of the military
heroes j: Mexico, although President
liai mistrusted him exceeding!. llax
kept him Iii.iciUb In Mexico cltv. and
ill I!i07. when Huerta thouKht he would
.e"'l- acn ii see Important service, he
ol"lned three car Icivc of iUciu?
I lis siH-nt it In Monterey, helping. In the
capacity of civil engineer, to build up
MontereV lighting and street railway
system. There were stories at the tlmei
of large sums he was charged with hav
ing extracted from the contractors, but
nothing ever came of them.
In 1910 he repotted back to the army
and a year later when assigned to the
tusk of directing the c.imptlgn against
I.mllland Zapata, who had revolted and
was s.lllaglng towns in the south. .
Hnertu cenduwed strong campaign
.,mnili,ii 1
. . . ' -Vi o e f tt, e'.,llor
. V m .' ". "f V" leaillng
ininiiiry ngures or .Mexico, although his
faI,. h, tlnt Mir through the world
When President Diaz abdicated In the
M,rnK of 1911 ie asked Huerta to take
,-,.mman I of the tull'tary escort of the
train which was to tnk,. him to Vera
i.t,n l., .n...i,.i ....
... v.
olutlonlsts. and tile two old eoldlert
sought side by side. The revolutionists
were driven off.
I'ntorlte of lie In llnrrn.
When I.lceuciado Francisco I,, de la
Ilarra became provisional President
lluerta's star rose fast Senor de la
Ilarra trusted Huerta, and at once as-
(.1 trtieil ill!.,, Ii. fi tl.atr nP ,An.ln..lli.n nn
Zapata always two Jumps ahead, and
Huerta failed to rapture him. In spite
i.uiure 01 ims campaign jtuerta
btvame the military heio of Mexlc.
Then Kinnchvo Mudero became Presl-
dent. Mudero did not trust Huerta; the
General wns recalled from his campaign,
anil for a jear remained Inactive In
Alexlco city.
Then the revolution of Orozco grew to
proportions which were alarming to Ala-.
dero. The Federal troops met Orozco's to the State Department's assertion to
army and were badly defeato-1. The day that It had wanted Americans to
.Modern government was tottering, keeii out of Alexlco. In this respect
,
CoiiSlinird on ''rcoail 'nor.
EX-SECRETARY KNOX .
A SENATE CANDIDATE
Will Seek Popular Election on
Ilcpiililican and Hull
Moose Tickets.
PlTTsnrnn. .Tan. 1 .t. ni.ltnn.1er
O.
.....
.xnox lonua.i, nnnounceo himself to-
nigh, as Itepnlillcan candidate for the
United State. Senate. Mr. Knox seeks
to succeed Senator George T. Oliver of
Plttshttrg. whose term expires .March 4.
101"
and who will not he a niotlitnte
, ., -
for reelection.
.Mr. Knox will be unopposed In the
Itepubllcun primaries next May, and It
I "'"--""1 'mdldate of the
j Progressives, a belief strengthened by
this declaration made to-night by Will-
' lam Filnn of the Progressive Natloml
Committee ;
"Pennsylvania Is to be congratuLiteJ
upon having a man of the high calibre
of P. C Knox to put forward for the
United States Senate."
In his am'ouncein.'nt .Mr. Knox says:
"I havo been persuaded tn this course
by prominent men throughout the State,
representing nil dhades of supposed dif
ference In the party council, but all be
lieving In the fundamental principles of
the Itepubllcan parly."
After serving under two President as
Attorney-General and about seven years
as Senator from Pennsylvania and then
as Secretary of State under President
Taft Air. Knox will go before the people
for their votes for the first time. Ho
has told friends that he expects to cam
paign the entire State, and welcomes tho
opportunity.
At the dose of the Taft Administra
tion Mr. Knox returned to littsbunr
ana openeu a inw ortice. He has since
appeared at his office off and on, but
not at the local bar. As a candidate he
MASSACRE WILSON'S
T,SAYST.R.'
Send (It'll. Wood Into Mexico
J and Knd Murders. He
t'rpps.
iSKKS POLITICAL MOTIVE
! Fulled fo Protect Americans
! on Sens, and Let Teutons
1 Run Wild.
Tneodoie Hoosevelt arraigns President
j Wilson as being responsible for the mas
sacr In Mexico, owing to what he terms
la vaolllatln-r policy and accuses him of
playing politic In 'his most recent denl
iliifm with the Teutonic Powers.
These charge are nmde In a state
ment Issued at Oyster Hoy List nlRht.
which sa:
'This dreadful outrage Is merely an
Inevitable outcome of the policies that
have been followed In Mexico for the
last Hie jrars and above all the last
three, years. The. policy c.f watchful
waiting, the oollcy of not Interfering I ScliatOl' SInVfloil Aflltl illlS
wlth -blood snlllln.' the policy of ask-, " OIH.MItll. .1(1111111 IS-
' with 'blood spilling, the policy of ask
Ing the South and Central American re-
publics to take from us the responsl-1
I blllty that wo were too timid to take
"orne Its legitimate fruits.
"In the past the Carranzlstas, whom1
.r,ient Wilson has recognised as
, , ..., m.i
forming the Government of Mexico.
have done to our people Just exactly
such things us these Vllllstns have done.
Arms Shipment H'ron.
It Is but a year since President
Wtlinn sent Gen. Scott down to tlie ' anil empowering tne rresuieni "to oraer
border to make a treaty with Villa, who the army or any necessary part thereof"
had then ulready committed outrages of; ,, Msxlc0 for the vrotectlon of the lives
v&ys? y "ib,Vb" "rf,,",5' of Am'rlMns-The M
"President Wilson has permitted those t re-olutlon Mo authorUed the President
different bandit factions to get from to use the military and naval forces of
us. or with our permission, the arms tt). United States "to the same extent as
with which they have killed American , ., ... , .. ,
prlv.it.. citizen-. American soldiers. tle I now by law permitted the navy in lUtl
husbands ami fathers of American , Ur- '' protection of American rights.'
women whivn they have outragid There The resolution provides further that
Is a hundred times the Justification fur .... ,-,- ,, ,.arhii. Mexico nuv "co-
Interfering Ii, .Mexico tlial there was for
Interferlnt- In fuli.i.
"We should have Interfered ) ears ago. 1 which to the Ptesldent shall seem m
We should act through the regular proprLite" In attaining the objects of the
orrn. foi this kind ..f pollc- work Is lm,rventlon as authorized by the resolu
not the vkork for volunteers. We should
act with the name elllciency and the
same dlslntrrestedties. we showed In, T.ils lesolutlon was Introduced by
Cuba, and the man to do the Job Is Gen. Senator Ia-wIs soon after he lkid called
Wood, the man who did the Job In tuch at the White House, but the President's
line hape In Cuba. advisers immediately made It known
Hut in noting the effect of watchful
waiting In Mexico do not forget the
."'"" "y.
""'N i."'U OKI!.. .or unimu nr.
from Washington Indicate that the ptes
sure of the Kngllsh fleet ln mused Ger
many and Uistr a t lielbue u iiiK.ife
to c..rr on 'urtner their piibm.irinc war
fare HEiiins' hlples tias.eiiger ship".
Tlie ilmpatche" Hdl. ate that having thu
leen fenced by the lliltish navy to aban
don the pricttee of the wholesale murder
of non-conibatjitit men, women and chil
dren mi the high seas they intend to
mike believe to alMhdon It at President
Wilson's request with, as a Uirgilu in
return, renewed iresure by President
Wilson upon Great Ilrltaln
"Some of the professional German
American lenders have announced If this
were done ami the bargain carried out
President Wilson would gain the entire
German American ote. As n matter
of finct, eloven months have cone by since
ll..l.l...t .I'M..... Hn.l.t...! ......... .1. ..
months have rone by since the Falnha
Bnd later the I.usltanl.i were sunk. Ship
after ship has been sunk until the total
of lives lost exceeds 2,200. and Presl.
dent Wilson has done nothing except to
write notes, each being followed by a
freh outrage.
Our WnrnluKa Futile,
"It Is worth while calling attention
President vt llson Is copying tne ex-1
ample of Ainbajvndor Itcrnstotff when
he warned the Americans to keep off
I tin- I.usltimla. which warning was foi-
lowed by murder. Hut It l at least to
, be said of th" German Ambavadoi that
' the murders of which lie Rave warning
wete of citizens of a foreign land. In
President WINon's cae the warning
was followed !y mutder of citizens of
our own land.
"We did nothing when our citizens
were murdered on the high seas by
""'.T""5' y?,MrP,l',1l,,' weJn.,Pml '? ''"
rw.MilMir ntv.iit tltA y,ltlvArMt fhiit litive Iiaiiii
munlerivl by Alexlco nnd remember that
ITesldent Wilson had recognized the
Mexican Government, which neveithe-
, less ne so a sinwieu ' ' "Ur
.citizens that at the peril ..f their lives
I they must not stay In .Mexico.
' "Meanwhile for tnree ye,ars our nrmy
.... ..... . !,... ,tlr!n.i.a t,na II ,
' - " "',"''" ;
JVA
ng one another as to which can most
successfully obstruct the purwso of the
American people to preiwire for Its own
' "
seii peisouany r.sionsiuic lor me raci
that dining the eighteen months since
( the great war Ix-gun not one step In
preparedness has been taken.
"When the great war censfs we shall
have earned tlie contemptuous dislike
of every combatant, and If we don't do
our duty In .Mexico one or nil or them
will surely seize Alexlco themselves.
'Thanks to this Administration, our
k...i .
prop!.! Iimj lime ,iit-io wi iiiviii n niiwi
evil day of reckoning when the warring
Powers are again free to turn their
attention to u.. I say may. hut as a
matter of fact 1 believe that the evil
day will surely come unless our Gov-
.,... ulvinilnna Its nttltlnlo r.f nrlm.
inni fuinitv recur,! both ..reimreri.
ness and International duty."
CUPID TAXES THE ALPHABET.
... . ,
M-ry llrbanon lc. llecome. Wa.lly -
slavr (iuriisailoiTaklixk's Ilrlilr.
iubsaic J j ju iimi r.rv
Urpanowir-z became "the brMerl.yi
Wadlyslaw- OurtiBzdowsklzxk. Tho cere-
Krrowo'r'stjoI'V'Vo
tthni e Church '
nn"n .a,eVwl.Ul
'VJi. "Lelf1""'" 00111,1 W"h ,h" "U
or tne courts
vi ..u.... . .
uTk.KlnVMi BJi'.'r'.'fr.V.'vS:.
Ittie. tiraboard Air Use Hy., 1114 Broadway.
WILSON FIGHTS ARMED INTERVENTION;
KEEP OUT OF MEXICO, LANSING WARNS;
BANDIT CHIEF
SEND ARMY TO
MEXICO, PLEA
IN CONGRESS
Two Resolutions Entered
for Intervention to Pro
tect Citizens.
LEWIS SEES WILSON,
THEN OFFERS ONE
t ration Man. Warns of
Trouhle on Bonier.
WAsittxciTON', .Ion. 13. Two more
resolutions relating to the Mexican sit
uation were Introduced In Congress to
day. Senator James Ham Lewis of Illinois,
a Democrat, Introduced one authorizing
' operate with any forces there existing
that the I "resident had nothing to do
with the resolution.
ala for InterTrntlnn -i -
In the Houe Iteprescntatlve AIos of
Writ Virginia, Hepulillcnti, Introduced a
involution declaring It to be the eerie
of Congress th.it the I'nlted States
should intervene In Mexico. After
iely criticising the altitude of the Ad-
ministration toward Alexin) and express.
Ing doubt us to the ability of C.irranza
to proteit American lives the Aloss reso
lution hays:
Now therefore lie It resolved that
It if the sense of the Home of Repre
sentatives, the Senate concurring, that
the Governuunt of the I'nlted States
'hall forthwith deste.h to .Mexico
surh part of Its army and navy as
shall I necessary to Immediately cap
tuie nnd bring to JuHlce the perpetra
tor of this latent mitragc upon Ameri
can citizens and to offer sittllcient pro
tection t i Anierlc.in oltlzens In Alexlco
so a to jirevent any repetition of such
outrage, nnd that to accomplish this
object the United States army shall
rios the Nirder and gu Into .Mexico,
and the i'nlted States n-ivy shall oo
cup: the waters adjacent to the coast
of .Mexico, and bth remain there until
such time as It shall be dearly nji
piirent to the Government of the
I'nlted States that the right of Its
citizens In their possession and prop
erty shall be secure.
norder Conditions Bail.
One of the mot notable events
of
the day In Congress was a speech riy
Hepweiitntlve SCayden of Texas, a
Democratic leader, warning O.'ngress
and the Admlnlsti atlon that conditions
on the Is.rder are dangerous and that
the people- on this side of the line will
not tolerate further outrages tiin Amer-
lean life and property
Mi SInyden Is a strong Wilson sup-
pnrtcr and lias the reputation In Con
Bie of being a conservative, temperate
thlnk'-r. Ills wotds of warning made
a deep Impression. Air. SInyden said
In part :
think the conference oetneen tne
Secietarv of State and the diplomatic
representatives or six Mianisn American
Governments Old wen to mivise tne
, ' L nZ ,W in I
whatever i.oietnment exists In AIlxIco
and that the rresiueni niu ine proper
7.. ' . ' ... ..Vki.
ami u me . ...e ...... B
111 lldntltltln tills MUggCStlotV
"SUux. the enforced retirement of
has beet, the bloody
theatre of contendltsg factions, doing all
rt of crimen from assauitji on ' "m"
, m,1"c, j,, Jo,' '
i
, d. ...
Some One Hespoiislhle.
"It was an intoieraiue condition anil
o, one had to be recognized. Some-
wheie and on some one the responsl-
blllty had to lodge, Choice lay between
car I ansa and Villa, the utmpeakable,
"Since thise troubles neg.in I nave
tried to do my duty as a citizen and a
tepre.sentatlve In Congress by keeilng
...',1. ii.,.,in.iiii,.hi. m.ii., inih.
.line, un.i ,v.,,,..n .- -
hands of the President and his Secretary
, of State. I have been silent even when
I thought serious mistakes were being
.made,
I "I am not on my feet to-day for the
nUMIOse Of Criticising Hill' Otle
I nni
venturing to speak a few wotds to-day
because I feel U Is a duty I owe my
State, the people of the border and my
constituents. It Is n duty I owe the
' ",lolc country, for I shall venture a
VVarillllrt w II 111 ll iicrurti 11111; uuiu
I trouble for lite people nf M.ilne nn well
1 ou people of Texas, Arizona and
iCallfoinla.
"Horrors In -Mexico are cumulative,
' uSVitoAXSK the
""S?"? V "he Ci Imbn Si' w1 en
m"n! womeTSnrl Sin were
'0. ,'urn,'d n,ul ttomi by a bandit.
"", wor"e k"ow" '""
of ou may have forgotten that
()l( particular thief and murderer who
.executed this horror fled to the United
w,"re WBS n""M -
Continued1 en Second Pagt,
BANDITS TO BE
WITH, SAYS ARREDONDO
FJV'l.s7.V(f"'O.V, .Ian. 13. Mrrtrnn Ambannadnr ftcntpnatc Atretlona'o,
aclcnnwlcdtrlng receipt of Srcrctarn Laming' communication to
Varrama demanding the capture and punihmcnt of the ViUitta bandits,
sent the following reply:
I have the honor to acknowl- to remedy the situation in the
edge the receipt of your Excel- State of Durango.
lency's note of this date with its , Thl,8 ,att" mattr h l,ready
... ... . been brought to the attention of
enclosure relative to the murder Mr Carranlll) and whlle i feel
by Villa forces of sixteen Amcri- certain that he will omit no effort
can gentlemen near the city of to bring the murderers of the
Chihuahua and of the situation in above mentioned American gen
the State of Durango. tlemen to justice on his own ini-
Your Excellency may feel as- tiative, I have, nevertheless, com
sured that my Government and municated with him by wire on
myself deeply deptorc the das- the subject.
tardly action of the Villa forces Renewing to your Excellency
and that efficient action will be the assurance of my profound re
taken to bring the murderers to grct for the occurrence,
justice, and that my Government E. ARREDONDO,
will also take the necessary steps Ambassador Designate,
Two More Americans Are
Slain by Mexican Bandits
Intense Excitement Prevails Along the Border Following
Reports of New Outrages Victims of Santa
Ysabel Massacre Are Recovered.
BODIES FOUND MUTILATED AND PILED UP
Ki. Paso. Jan, 13. The arrival early
this morning of the guarded train bear
tug the bodies of the victims of Mon
day's Mexican bandit outrages near
Santa Ysabel, In the State of Chihuahua,
waa followed by open manifestations of
Indignation on the part of Americans
here nnd at Juarez and excited reports
of other murders.
Intense excitement prevails along the
border. In addition to the eighteen
Americans who were murdered on Alon
day two more victims were added to-dBT-
Ttte killing of George F. Pear
son, on American prospector, and llert
Kramer, a ranchman.
The details of the killing of the two
additional Americans, Pearson and
Ktanier, ure as follows:
Pearson, whose wife lives in Califor
nia, wus caught out alone In western
Chihuahua yesterday and murdered. He
started nut a few months ago to pros.
jieiot close to the Hearst ranch. He had
little money with him. Gen. Itodrlguez.
whoe captute wa reorted but not
olll.ially believed. Is said to have per
sonally killed Pearson.
Kramer had lived In Ab-xico for many
years. He was taken from his home
and shot last Friday, supposedly by the
same bandits who made the attack on
the American miners on Aionuay Hearst Interests at Hablcora, who hail
Kramer's death was confirmed by ad- with him 12." Americans and n few sol
vices ftom Chihuahua city, as was al" dler.
the death of Pearson. iilld.il aniiouncement was made List
The eighteen tw.dles, which leached iilsht that Gen. P. Kllas Calles, Car
Ill Pas. i to-day without mishap, were ranza's commander tn Sonora. was pre
recoveied at 7 o'clock on Tuesday night paring to send o.nnn men from Sonora
in miomtter , i ne rescue party irom
Chihuahua reached the scene of the
massacre three hours earlier, but Be
cause the bandits were still in the
vicinity they returned to Santa Ysabel.
There the picked up n machine gun
anil, aided by soldiers, proceeded back
to Kilometer 68,
Unities Mutilated.
The bodies of the victims were found
stripped, robbed and mutilated with
Anirirentlv the bandits tired Into
Ues after tin. m.m'were ,lea!
shots.
the bodies
Thirteen were piled one on another
against the railroad bunk w lie re the
coach had stopped
riLcKe'd ring Tile
I'watsoiJ'and Woo
live others were
river Tii'n nf the.,,
ween Ivlliff on th river hunk u'llli tlielr
feet In the water. 1 Another paper circulated In F.l Thro
So fearful were the rescuers of at- '"-day was addressed tn Col, Hoose
tack by the bandits that they took only velt. asking him to use "his American
thlrtv minutes tn nlaee the bodies nn
tlie train. The train then went back
lo Chihuahua, where coffins had been
'"'' r' ' friends of the victims
.ne.-lal train heart.,- tlie e,
Then a special train bearing the cof-
fins and guarded by twenty or twenty-
, .ohllers and a dozen
o.e . ain.iiA.. ni'inifin i.ni,
Americans heavily arnie.l permission
f 'Mn HiorUes left for 1.1
ext,lt(1( (rowiI 0'r several' hundred
frVnds and relatives of the mutdered
men gathered at the Santa Fe station to
ineei tne train inis inormng. i lie comns
wrre transferred to auto trucks, piled
two nnd three h ell. covered with
tarpaulin nnd taken to the morgue.
Ti,tr ..rrlvni In the eliv w:.s the si.pii.il
nnn.iie mlv. for Indtansnt denmnstra.
tlons against the Mexicans who me living
here and against the Administration
Consul lldnarda Attacked,
..,.,.. ,, ,
I nlted States Consul IMwards nt
. ..t,l. ,t.- p ...
J"r V". rfnf.y "f, 'I
crowd. He was Jli
tlio lobby of the Hotel t,heldon and was
comnelled to flee hatless.
' "Villa Consul!" they shouted nt him.
and hooted as he fled. Others called
after him: ".Men like you have brought
about the murder of the Americans
whose bodies are here now
The resentment against Kd wards was
precipitated by his aiinouiicenieiit that
he had been assured absolutely tin- the
mining party which fell Into the bandits'
nanus noun. in.,., n..., sui.i-
ntileed by Carranza's soldiers. This as-1
surance, he said, had come from Gen.
Gabriel Gavler.i, Carranza's commander
In Juarez. Gavlera had said tint the
district through which the party would
pass would be completely dominated by
Carranza forces.
As soon as this account spread around
the city Kdwards was attacked In the,
hotel lobby, while the crowds loudly de-
pounced the Administration. Kdwards
tried to argue with them, but was driven
Into the street,
The resentment against former Villa
leaders now In HI Paso and Juarez
grew to Hiich an extent that pence offi -
ccrs are locking most of them up on
SLAIN, ONE CAPTIVE
DEALT
technical charges, .Miguel Diaz Loin
bardo. Villa's former Secretary of For
eign Affairs and one of the few Stcxl
cans still loyal to Villa, was among those
locked up.
At the sam time a mob of enragd
mining men sought to find Gen. Jose
Ynez Salazar, a former .Mexican army
leader, but the iollce hurried him out
of the city while the mob was gather
ing for an attack on his hotel.
Following the arrival of the bodies In
this city alarming reports gained cre
dence everywhere. It was reported once,
but later authentically denied, that
twelve more Americans. Including two
women, nan oeen murdered by Alexlran
bandits.
Another report was to tlie effect that
Gen. Joe Rodriguez, 0 villa chler, who
is alleged to have Instigated Alonday's
massacre, had l.en captured near -Madera
In Chihuahua. The message em
anating from Alndera stated that Ameri
cans had captured him and killed sev
eral of his pirty In a pitched battle.
This story later was discredited, as
the number nf Americans In and about
Al.idera Is not large, and few of those
known to be In that klnlty are believed
to lie of the sort to undertake to rapture
bandits.
Furthermore, Itodrlguez lould hardly
have had time to get bark to Aladera
from the scene of the execution, The
report of his capture persisted, howevet,
with the added details that the success
ful Americans had been led by Alnxt.
mlano Alarquez. an employee nf the
Into Chihuahua to help exterminate (.en.
Villa and Ills bandits operating there.
Villa Held lle.ponsll.le.
It Is believed here that Villa Is pet-
onally back of an organized campaign
lo "wipe out Americans In Chihuahua,
Null out of revenue nnd to break up the
Carranza Government.
Indignation along the border ran high
nil day, especially among the Americana
wl1" l,-,vn elhenil hete from Alexlco
A ""el,n.,r h.fld . pla2" frt
on . . " uiKHino- "o "Hfni'.iii n-.i.in
for the avowed purpose of going into
Mh " .her.,n;aVne
"'! !rculu.ed a petition calling
fr tile r.-Cl.ll of Consul IMWHrdS,
mnnlino.i to Ho what lie coum to se-
cur,e 'h Protection of American citizen,
nni1 tn,r rights In Alexlco.
in guaril against violence agimst
leaning .Mexicans, nen. .Manuel Manila
"" twelve other prominent former Ml-
""la officers wen
put Into Jail to-day. '
" V,;. "tl'JrV. A me ic-ins t . i n - ! Afi,,ln -(lllV was emplia-
An,ecans to Dmh,,,, ,iy J
Among those arrested besides those al-' State Department oftlclals that the
ready mentioned was Gen. Jose Prloto. Americans who were murdered at
who mine to 151 Pasa. about fifteen days ( Chihuahua had been warned not tn
. urii. .....o...-. .... . run,,
mnncriy Minis rain oi sinii, onm or
whom are suspected of having taken
part In the murder of Americans In
Alexlco.
TUtt Gen Villa deliberately sent his
family to Cuba to relleie himself of
concern on their behalf. Is said to be itlie
opinion of the State Department at
Washington and Its local representatives
here.
Mlnliia Men In Peril.
Villa Is believed to have men maretiinw
to the Parral district ami is reported to
have dispatched forces to wipe outt the
Alvumdn Milliner l.'oinminv's men inul
others found in the district.'
,, of )ho mrl, wh Kuardel the
eighteen bodies on the trip from Chi-
,. ,,,, , ,., ,, ,WM,r)P(, ,lllvl .
beet, taken with eight others herore Gen.
a, (5Uerrero
vn,a ,v.ls , u .rr,ie rage," he said.
l..I I .,.. ,,H nil lisfure ll 111 IVI IllAil n
fotetluger nt each of us and shouted
'Will you leave Alexlco?' Viclnusness,
bitterness and bate showed In his face.
That was on December 31."
Anxiety for the hundreds of Ameri
cans remaining In the State of Chihua
hua, especially now In Hie Parral dis
trict, has led to a plan to bring every
t;ei States citizen out to this side of
t,e boundary. Three-quarters of the
mining Industry In the State of Chlhua-
htia, represented by American nwne-.
ship anil control, will be immediately
.dosed down. It was decided this after-
noon to rush out every American and
1 Dritlsh miner In the employ of Atnerl-
can companies.
Rodriquez Reported Cap
tured and Ordered
to Be Shot.
LAWLESS CONDITION
CONTNUES TO EXIST
Lansing to Instruct Con
suls to Get All Out of
Bandit Areas.
MUST KSE THEIR
OWN DISCRETION
Admits Relatives of Mur
dered Men 3Iay Never
Get Reparation.
WASIII.VOTO.V, Jse. 13 "1 wonlit
again urge Amsrlrsn In keep mil nf all
ertlnns of Alrxlro where lawless condi
tions still exist. If Americans go lain
och territory they take their rhanres."
Thus Secretary of Htnto Lnnslni; Is
sued another warning tlila afternoon
to Americans to get out nnd stay out
of lawless sections of Alexlco.
The warning wan issued followltu
the receipt of official confirmation of
the killing of another American citizen
by Vllllstii bandits eighty miles ue.u
of Sant? Ysalxd, where Atondio's
massacre occurred, nnd likewise, fol
lowing n renewal of assurances to the
Secretary of Kll.'eo Arredondo, Car
ranza's Ambassador designate to tl
Unltfsl States, that the Cnrratiza (lo
ernment will live up to Its Bssurantes
given at tho time of Its recognition.
The Stato Department received
word to-night that two of Villa's Gen
erals who nre supposed tn liavn been
Implicated in the massacre, nf tli
eighteen Amerlcnns netr ('hlliu.ilnia
have been taken, one of them allvt.
and the other dead, with numbct of
their companions.
linrlrlRiirr a Prisoner.
The State Department despatch,
which onme from HI Paxo, said Unit
Gen. Jose Itodrlguez had been cap
tured and Gen. Almeida killed by Cut-,
mnza's troops. Gen. G.nira, In obarse
of the Constitutionalists', lias ordered
the ..xeciitlon of Itodrlguez
The desp.it. it to the State Depart
ment did not Indicate the part ninth
these two Generals are supposed to
have taken in the murdering of th
Americans, but in .Mexican quart!
here It was learned that they arc the
two Villa lenders who were In cont'o!
of the territory In which the murders
ttiok place. The despatch to the Suite
Department did not say how m.inv
nt the followers of the two General.
. wero raptured.
I Tho two weir taken at Atadera,
I which Is more than lou miles from
thl "cenp murders.
I Late despatched from the border laai
1 night said that no l ontlmmtion of the i.
Port of Gen. Itodrlguez's death hail lieen
received It was added that tho repo-t
I Is officially discredited. The ojilnlon w:t
that the report of his death was sprci.l
by Carrairalstas lo allay American n,.
MaMl"n 1
wtuie reeling in ongrc.s over the
..... M....in ,.,,.,., ,,,,,, ....
'-n.lty. the Pn,
n"'"l , ' '? '""'""C
Idem
rmltuitlon to
deal with the situation through the
Cn r ran xa Oo v e rn me 1 1 1 .
At both the White House and the
Statu Department It wus apparent
that everything possible wan being
done to stand off any action which
would force the Government into
armed Intervention.
Victims Hail lleen Warned.
, ,.nt,.r .Mexico.
Resolutions were ngain Introduced
In Congress looking toward nrmed In
tervention and speeches wero deliv
ered Indicating deep feeljng.
Secretary Landing said ho would ad
dress n new sci of Instructions tn
American Consuls In .Mexico, reitetat
Ing those of last October which di
rected the Consuls to employ riders if
necessary to carry to Americans In
1 dangerous ureas the warning to is
turn to the I'nlted States,.
Tho Secretnry did not specify in his
warning the, pool Ions whrte "lawless
conditions" still exist. He tutd Amer
icans must UHi. their own common
.sense. In the mntter. The Department,
however, tins received word 'hat be
sides the area In western Chihuahua
where the recent murders occurred
tho States of Durango and Sonora are
also In the danger zone.
Ambassador Arredondo in a .stale
ment Issued to-night from the .Mexican
Kmba.isy referred to the killing of th
' Amrrlcins us "regTettnble," "deplor
able" and "atrocious," hut, as was. the
riiso with Secretary Lansing, hn
placed blame on tlu victims for failing
I to heed the warnings to keep out of
1 dangerous territory
Air. Arredondo adinltte.1 subsequent
l, however, that thee Americana, hel.'
permits from the Carranza military an
thontles for use within the c.irratu.
lines, hut added that these penults had
j been asked for by the Individual! and
ii1'
m
