O TV JET A THE?
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Jan. r '
22.60.
WOT s
I20NA Generally
temperature ' urv
nged.
7
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18 NO. 197.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, JANUARY 14, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
w mm
f I mm m fl
OH
RESULT OF
Mining Companies Issue Or
ders for their Men to Leave
the Northern Mexican State
and Also from Durango.
EL PASO INCENSED
OVER THE OUTRAGE
Villa Adherents in Texas Me-
tropolis Being Rounded Up
- and Ordered to Leave. Twoj
Arrested for Vagrancy. j
i
EL PASO, Jan. 13. The receipt of
details of the massacre of Americans
and other foreigners by Villa bandits
culminated in the issuance of orders
for a general exodus of mining com
pany employes " from Chihuahua and
Durango. Mine officials here issued
urgent orders on receipt of a request
from the State Department at Wash
ington. Negotiations were begun witu
Carranza officinls to provide special
tirs and protection.
The arrest of two leaders of the for
ner Villa organization; protests a
TPinst the foreign policy of the nation
al administration; the action of tbe lo
cal police to .drive Villa adherents from
El Paso and tbe petition to Wilson
urging the removal of Tbomas Ed
wards, American consul at Juarez, for
his alleged indifference to American
Interests in Mexico, indicated the ten
sion "6f the public mind.
An appeal from the State Depart
ment to Andreas Garcia, the Mexican
consnl.'for adeouate protection for for
e'en live, and property, met with the
announcement that Carranza forces
were being sent to western Chihuahua.
' Confirmation of the execution of
three other Americans was received in
j-d vices from western Chihuahua. Geo.
F. Parsons was killed near the Babri
ccra Ranch where Peter Keane was
killed several weeks ago. Bart Kram
er was killed in the Guerrero district.
There was no definite action Qn the
Proposal to organize a thousand Amer
ican mining men to run down the Villa
bandits, guilty of the massacre of the
eighteen foreigners at Sapta Ysabel.1
The sanction of the Carranza officials
is sought, according t0 an announce
ment. The capture of the former Villa
general, Jose Rodriguez by Americans
and Carranza soldiers, is confirmed by
the Mexican consulate here. Advices
reporting that Rodriguez band were
killed or captured was contained in a
request from Americans for aid. Early
reports connected Rodriguez with the
Santa Ysabel massacre. Later, pas
sengers on tbe train said General
Reyna, Colonels Lopez and Beltran per
sonally directed the execution. The de
feat of thirty-five hundred ' Carranza
troops yesterday near Escaion, by Gen
eral Benjamin Argumendo was brought
' l.y a messenger said to have arrived
at tbe home of General Huerta. The
messenger stated Argumendo's five
thousand troops were gathered in Ox
aca by Blanquet, Mondragon and Ag
ui'ar, former Huerta generals. .
The proposed telegram to Roosevelt
urging vthat he use his influence with
Congress to secure a "change of poli
cy of this government" towards Mexi
co, was not sent. Efforts to confine
signatures to persons without property
in Mexico were abandoned.
Miguel Diaz Lombardo, former min
ister of foreign affairs in the Villa cab
inet, and General Jose Prieto were ar
rested on charges of vagrancy and
held in $1000 bond. The police say
the Villa leaders will be run out of El
Paso. A double funeral of E. L. Robin
son and Maurice Anderson, Santa Ysa
bel victims, wa? held this afternoon.
The services of the others will be held
later. Some of the bodies will be ship
ped to their homes in other cities.
"CLEAN UP EL PASO"
EL PASO, Jan. 13. A squad of
bout fifty soldiers, aiding the police
started through one of the main streets
according to their own statements,
"looking for Mexicans." Later they
declared they had "cleaned up El Paso
street." Earlier, four soldiers had dis
persed the patrons of a Mexican saloon
The rounding up and Jailing of suspect
ed Villa adherents continued.
Street brawls between American
(Continued on Page Two.)
E
CHIHUAHUA
MASSACRE
FOR COY'S BODY
W. A. Schwartz and James L.
"Red" Gannon, on behalf of the
Bisbee lodge of the B. P. O. E.
left last evening on the east
bound train for El Paso in an
effort to secure the body of Jack
P. Coy, one of the 17 Americans
-wh was killed i nthe bandit
ral near Santa Ysabel, last
Monday.
It is the plan of the local Elks
to bring the body to Bisbee for
interment, which, if it is return-
ed in time, will take place Sun-
day afternoon. Last night,
however, the lodge was unable
to say whether the body had ar-
rived in the Texirn town.
HUERTA IS DEAD
EL PASO, Jan. 13. General
Huerta died tonight. Sclerosis of
the liver was the cause of his
death. He was surrounded by his
family and servants when the end
came. The funeral arrangements
will be made tomorrow. It is be
lieved an effort will be mad; o
arrange for the burial in Mexico.
ihdoiuh: h
0I0 HOT TAKE
mm
Charles Wall, who was Sup
posed to . Have Left with
Americans who were Killed
is Safe in Chihuahua City.
The following telegram, receiv
ed by the sheriff, may result In
the uncovering of the daughter
of one of the unfortunate Ameri
cans who were murdered In the
state of Chihuahua last Monday.
- El Paso. Texas. Jan. 13, 191fi.
Sheriff, Cochise County, Arizona.
' Please advise married daughter
of Tom Johnson of his ' murder
together with seventeen other
Americans in Chihuahua on the
tenth. Body now here. ; Please
advise disposition . of remains.
Body Identified by Manning and
Flipper. Answer 614 Mills Build-'
ing. CAMPHIUS & RIVERS.
TOMBSTONE, Jan. 13. (Special)
A telegram was received from El Paso
this afternoon from Chief of Police
Don Johnson, stating that Chas. Wall
j of this city, was not of the party at
the time of the massacre but went
down from El Paso to Chihuahua, but
for some reason stayed in Chihuahua
and was now in that city. This-was
pleasing news for his friends who bad
thought he was with the party.
The entire party was known to a
number of men now here in the em
ploy of the Bunker - Hill Company.
James Campbell, J. H. Fitzpatrick and
Harry Bratt all worked In that section
and were well acquainted with Wat
son. Wallace. Holmes. Coy and the
others. Bratt was eneineer on the
train that ran from Chihuahua down
to San Ysabel and other points for a
number of years. He states that the
noint where the holdup occurred is
lust out of that city and in the foot
hills and that a party could get Into
he mountains from there In short
time. While he was in that section he
wso held no eight times in eizht days.
Campbell was working in that sec
tion for a number of years as was Fitz-
strick and they both had worked un
der Watson.
Wolcott left tonight for El Paso to
Join his wife and daughter up to a
late hour this afternoon he had not re
ceived any word from El Paso as to
whett"r or not the body of his son-in-law,
W. J. Wallace, has arrived there.
He was expecting a telegram from bis
folks there as soon as the body ar
rived. Holmes, the man who escaped, is
quite well known' in this section and
was in the county during the holidays
on a visit to friends In Bisbee.
Mr. Wolcott received several mes
sages from the parents of Mr. Wallace
now in Salt Lake, asking for full par
ticulars of the killing and inquiring as
to whether or not the body had been
brought out from Mexico.
There was considerable feeling ex
pressed on the streets here last night
and today over the killing, although no
demonstrations were made. Some act
ion may be taken and a request sent
to Washington that decisive action be
taken by the government in the matter
Full particulars of the killing are
awaited In order to ascertain definitely
just bow the affair occurred and who
were killed.
TnMnPTni r
Mil
III
AM STAND
TAKEN BY
THE U S.
Generals Rodriguez and Al
mieda Said to Have Been
Captured by Carranza Sol
diers in West Chihuahua.
ARRENDONDO ASSURES
STATE DEPARTMENT
Murderers Must Be Punished
Says Lansing, Otherwise
An Issue Might Arise. Offi
' cials Waiting Details.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 13. The news
of the capture of General Rodriguez.!
General Almieda and seeral 'other j
Villa chieftains, by Carraiza troops!
near Madera wa3 made known in dis-(
patches from El Paso to the State
Department and to the Mexican em-';
bassy. The embassy massages said ;
Almieda was shot and Hhe execution j
of Rodriguez ordered by General Gavi-'
ra, commanding the Juarez garrison.!
Eliseo Arredondo, ambassador de-l
i signate from the Carranza govern- j
j ment, called at the State Depart- i
ment and assured Lansing that Car-!
j ranza troops had been dispatches to!
j western Chihuahua with orders to!
kill or capture the bandits -concerned !
in the slaying of the Americans. He ;
said every Carranza soldier in Mexi-j
co would be pressed into service, if
necessary. . i I
In a letter statement, Arredondo de-j
clared the men killed had attempted j
to reach their place of business be-!
fore a complete control of the region i
was accomplished (by Carranza.
During the day '", Wilson '-conferred
with Lansing on -the. Mexican situa
tion and discussed it with callers. Hei
is understood to have told some otj
the latter that the Chihuahua mice i
employes had been especially, warned
not; to go into Mexico. During the I
Llav T oiiatn. n,.Aa It Ha A I
; uuj Kiuui.ift iiiuui . l v i v t. . 1 1 i .11111
rican government would demand from
Carranza evidence that the murderers
had been punished, otherwise an is
sue might arise
The statement is considered signi
ficant of the determination of the
United States to enforce the protec
tion of its citizens in Mexico. Lan
sing added another warning to Ame
ricans in Mexico to leave where there
is revolutionary trouble. As to the
responsibility of Carranza. Lansing
j.j .v i.i v.- j.
uetmi cu liuiuuiK vtuuiu ue ueitM uiiuru
until the facts are ascertained. He
agreed with the President that the
facts would be gathered from every
reliable source.
Intense indignation was again
re" j
neciea in congress. senator iis;ed jn tne speciai report Dy Brigadier;
introduced a resolution to authorize: o,oI r,v m.-i-tv, ,f f in.!
the sending of an. armed force to
protect American citizens and proper
ty. At his request, it was laid over
without action for the present. Rep
resentative Slayden, of Texas, made
a speech declaring it was time for
j Pan-American action to restore peace
in Mexico. He insisted tbe execution
of the murderers would satisfy . the
people of the border states. Repre
sentative Moss introduced a resolu
tion proposing the sending of an army
force to capture the bandits and tollman in the PasI- He is
disDatcb warships to Mexican waters i instituting schools and sanitary work
to co-operate with the army and re-l
main until the persons and property
of Americans were safe.
Lansing stated that hhls confer
ences with the President concerned
Lmostly the problem of obtaining ac
curate information. No American
consults were near the scene of theand cooperation between the, two hons !
massacre. The secretary indicated
tbe possibility that all American con
suls might be withdrawn from the
states of Durango, Chihuahua and
Sonora until order should be restored.
It was decided at the conference that
information be taken from every re
liable source, including Carra iza offi
cials. Lansing made it clear that I
there Is nothing to Indicate that Car-j
ranza authorities are not doing every-j
thing in their power to apprehend thei
bandits. It is indicated that these
steps appeared to be satisfactory.
Lansing said the United States would
expect the. bandits to be punished and
evidence of such punishment be forth
coming. Developments will shape the
action of the United States.
There is said to be no proof that
Villa made threats against all Ame
ricans, although some information to
this effect has reached the depart
ment. As .to responsibility. Lansing
feels the question of facts remains
to be established. The department
must know under what circumstances
the Americans went Into the district
(Continued on Page Two.)
WHERE BLOODY YOUNCSTOWN RIOT STARTED;
i .r.: j; x
I
Top. nurth bridge in East Youngstown where strike riot started: bottom, ruins of Gaston's saloon, barnod by
strikers. - ,
These pictures were taken in East Youngstown, O., "Saturday, following the fire started by rioting stTiVers
tvhii h laid a larjje part of the town in ruins. The Younjrstown Sheet & Tube Go's plant is seen at tho extreme
left ol the top picture. This company kept armed truardd on the bridge. According to the strikers, nnd a
sUiU-mcnt issued by Mayor Cunningham, the trouble began when the guards on the bridge fired into a crowd of
strikers This infuriated the strikers and they started in to destroy tho town.
EH Oft
LLIPP1 ES
PRAISED
Governor Harrison's Admin
istration of the Islands Sub
ject of Commendation in
Report by Gen. Mclntyre.
.WASHINGTON, Jan. 13. High
praise for Governor General Harrisons
Philippine administration was contain'
sular Affairs, who made a study lastj
fall. .The report was submitted to thei
President and Congress. He declares
progress was made in the schools andj
finances Qf tbe islands. j
He says of Harrison: "He has lab-i
ored unceasingly and gained the ad
miration and respect of the people in
the islands. As a consequence, law
and order are prevailing in the Chris
tian provinces and is better -assured
in portions inhabited by the wild peo-J
pie which was beyond the most san-
guine expectations two years ago. The
condition in the existing legislature.
which resulted in the failure for three
years to pass an appropriation bill, j
was replaced by a spirit of good will .
The report says the island govern- j
nn t .. tH 1 .nnJilin. Knannlallu '
Tent is in good condition financially
in view of the public work undertaken.
He declares financially the difficulties
j are all temporary. Mclntyre asserts
i three parties favored the passage of
! the pending Philippine bill.
CLAIM YAQUI VICTORY
NOG ALES, Jan. 13. An unconfirm
ed report says that General Dieiruez
Carranza force was defeated by Ynqui
Indians under General Urbnlejo. The
latter were supposed to De aiding Die-jand the worst piece of road was en
Kuez to restore order, according to! countered at Silver Creek, in Arizona.'
Mexican officials at Nogales. Otherwise the trip wss a decided suc-
' cess from every standpoint. I
FEARS FOR SAFETY Tonight the Arizonans are the guests!
EY
PASO, Jan. 13. Messages from
Douglas, saying that General Alberto
Garcia and 6(K men were operating in 1
the Sahuripa district. led to fears fori
the safety 0f James Lord, manager of. scheduled tor 8 o'clock in Uie moruini. eminent would re-try five of the for
the Monte Chrls'o Mining Co.. a hun-( Three machines from El Paso were In nier New Haven directors over bose
dred miles south of Nacozari. Lord's! Deming to meet th travelers and will suilt and innocence the federal Jury
two daughters are with him. 'pilot the autos to the Tass City. .disagreed.
PitlvJ; . i J ff.f fc-l lv ... ,
--;.
a. r
MURDER IN DOUGLAS.
DOVGLAS, Jan. 13.-nYoung
Davis, formerly constable in Plr
tlevilla, and a well known local
character was shot and killed
this evening by a man by the
name of Mike Connor.
Connor entered the Waldorf
pool room and shot Davis with
out uttering a word. No reason
is assigned for the killing. Con
nor was immediately arrested
and is in the branch county Jail.
Seventeen Cars with Sixty
People Reach New Mexico
Metropolis. Leave There
Today for EI Paso.
(Special Correspondence by Mountain
States Telephone & Telegraph
Co.,
Deming. New Mexico. Jan. 13.)
Seventeen automobiles, representing
the Warren District, Douglas. Tucson
and. in short, the state ef Arizona, ar -
rived in Deming late this afternoon on
their way to El Paso, where thev and
their occupants, numbering about six-
ty people, will introduce the Arizona
. . . . I .
Drar.n or s-inrnine ana prosperity to
the Cute City people
The first car to leave the Warren
District was that driven by J. J. Pow
en. president of the Warren District
Commercial Club. It was the pilot ma
chine and remained in Harhita until
every car had pm-.sed through that
place.
The dsv was cool but not in. ir.ld
It was brisk but throueh that, made
the trip most pleasant for the Arizona
motorists. Theje were no accidents
o fthe Deming Chamber of Commerce
at a reception given at the Adelphix,
Club.
The departure of tie motorcade is
MOTORCADE
DEBTOR
NIGHT
SOME OF THE RUINS
r'c.r
Tucsonian Asks That Federa
tionists Write the Supreme
Court for Present Construe-
: C A-J
civil wi uiicuui
That a generally circulated letter
from a man In Tucson, signing himself
I II II II I I II I 1111111 I
rnuu run uuun
! sPIIRNFfl
IU Ul UIII1L.U
LOCALLY
as T. iv. .Marsball. is receiving scant ; quences in the Mediterranean.
support in Bisbee and in Cochise, eouo-,
ty from, prominent-members of the, SUNK WiTHOUT WARNING.
Temperance Federation of ;Arizona LONDON. Jan. 13. The British
was indicated yesterday.- Marshall s j steamer tilengyle. sunk in the Medi
proposal that members of the Federa- j terranean Jan. 2. was torpedoed with
tion petition the state supreme court out warning. The stemer Tafna. ar
to construe the prohibition amendment ; rived at Marseilles from Phillippe
along the present lines met, in one in-i ville, escaped a second time from the
stance, with the answer that the peo-' submarine by speed and clever maneu
ple of Arizona were entirely willing ; verlag.
for the tribunal to pass upon the meas-! Dispatches state that Captain Ches
ure from a standpoint of la- and not i er. of the Glyengle. snfl twenty or
sentiment. th rrew were picked up by the
h. rf h. lotr.r it -nutH 1 steamer Mossoul. Three English-
appear that Marshall, who is neither!
: known in Cochise county nor is he con
nected in any prominent capacity with
I the Temperance Federation, is writing
! H of the members of that body and
' requesting them to address the state
1 supreme court asking that tribunat to
I construe the law in such a manner as;
t0 prohibit, as at present, the introduc
t'0" of intoxicants for mechanical, sac-
ramental or personal purposes.
' fl . . V. . 1 .1 1 I I At,.
i v. mt uinun m un r-
eration. In speaking of tbe subject yes-
jterday. declared that it was bad poliry
o attempt to make politics out of the
amendment and that a speedy decision
on tbe matter would aid in its final
beneficial application.
"The people of the state and parti
cularly of Cochise county." declared
the Federal ionist.' "Are confident the
supreme court will render a decision
on the matter. according to law and
needs no prodding from either side.
The ardent prohibitionist, in address
ing the supreme court, are playing di
rectly into tho hands of tne wet forces
in their actions and are not. as they
claim to be, working for temperance."
WILL RETRY FIVE
j WASHINGTON. Jan. 11. Attorney j
General Gregory announced the gov-
ITALY FACES
CUM
Ifl LAST
CRISIS
Balkan Situation Assumes
Most Threatening Aspect
Since Inception of Austro
German Invasion.
(AUSTRIAN NAVY AS
SEMBLES NEAR SCENE
Italy's Action in Recent De
velopments is Disappoint
ment to Her Allies; Monte
negrin Annihilation Grave.
LONDON. Jan. 13 Another decisive
I stage of the Balkan situation was
j reached with Montenegro following
j Servia In virtual absorption by tbe
; invaders. It is learned that Austria
I and Montenegro have agreed to an
i armistice, this being construed at the
j last act of the little country after the
' capital was dominated by the Autrl
! ans' capture of Mont Lovcen. Wheth
er King Nicholas will continue the
struggle is considered doubtful in
London in view that Montenegro is
j virtually under Austrian control. The
I' chief significance in Montenegro's
Adriatic front is along the sUle of the
Austrian main offensive naval station
at Cattaro. where dispatches announce
that tbe entire Austrian fleet, includ
ing three dreadnaughts, is assembled.
The recent naval raid acain.n tbe
Italians to relieve Serbia was made
from Cattaro. Further extension of
Austria's front Is viewed as further
ing Austria's object of raaVing the
Adriatic an Austrian sea. checking
Italy's ambition to make Is an Italian
sea. Italy has so much at stake that
officials and diplomats awaited steps
! that Italy would take to relieve Mon
tenegro and at tbe same time avert
; Austrian extension on the Adriatic.
They know that Italy had , prevented
Austria from gaining territory from
Montenegro by objecting to the trea-
i ty of 1912.
J It was believed that Italy would
i make a supreme effort to assist Mou
I tenegro as Kink Nicholas' daughter
! is the wife of the Italia-i King but
help has not arrived. The Italian ex-
i pedition landed further south in A!
i bania. The London Times asserts
Ithat Italy's Interests in
Monteiiegro
are as important es England's in the
Dardanelles opening. The prospec
tive annihilation of Montenegro Is
far reaching in its maritime conse-
man in the crew and seve'i Chinese
were lost. The sinking of the Glengyle
was reported in a dispatch. Jan. 2.
when it was said that 120 persons
were aboard. It it not believed any
Americans were aboard. The Gle
gyle was bound from Shanehai for
London.
TO AID SHIPPING.
PARIS. Jan. 13. To meet the
transportation crisis resulting from
shortage of maritime shipping facili
ties the government has asked Parlia
ment to authorize the treasury to ad
vance hundred million francs to ship
owners to enable them to Increase
their fleets by purchasing of allied
and neutral vessels.
WANTED IN SEATTLE
VANCOUVER. Jan. 13 Clad in a
uniform of the Hundred and Twenty
Fifth Irish Fusiliers. W. P. Freund. or
Seattle, was arrested in New West
minster Barracks. He was taken be
fore the extradition commissioner on
a warrant requesting bim to appear
in Seattle on a charge of forgery. He
was granted until Monday to retain
counsel and contest the extradition.
BOUT POSTPONED
NEW YORK. Jan. 13. The propos
ed ten round bout between Willard and
Moran in March w ill probably b post
poned until Memorial Day and staged
in the open.
