II Today's Metal Prices t lA flffif ftXl wl 51Y VfTiV '". 4 P-M. CITY EDITION I
!"! New York, JaSMvcr, 56 7: CLf V 7V ' (7 VV'V T aTlrS ' H
lead, 55.90; spelter, $17.50; copper, ffll feS Tonight or Saturday; Not Much H
I 524.0024.25. Change in Temperature.- J
I - FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER Mf l 1 H
I Fortysixth Year-No. 12. - Price: Five Cents. - QGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, JANUARY 14, 1916, h Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffice, Qgden, Utah.
i it
I Carranza Promises Summary Vengeance
II Will Be Meted Out To Villa Outlaws
I f . e
I TROOPS ARE IN FULL PURSUIT OF
1 MURDERERS OF AMERICAN CITIZENS
II
II Patrols From End to End of Railroad Line Ordered to Prepare
Ir Against Further Outrages in Northern Mexico Villa
II: Soldiers Continue Outlawry Rolling Stock and
11 1; Bridges Destroyed and Citizens in Suburb of
11 J ; Torreon Executed and Bodies Left in
II ! i Streets Special Train Is Sent From
II ; Juarez to Bring Out All Ameri-
a J' cans or Other Foreigners
sa ; Desiring to Come.
hel-i '
M Washington, Jan. 1 4. All Americans at Madeira, Mexi-
W: co are reported safe in official dispatches today to the state
l department which specifically deny the report of the murder
onl ; ' of ten Americans and two English women. The colony there
lm ' was attacked by bandits who were routed.
dsfl j !
n-J
M Washington, Jan. 14. General Car-
rxM I rauza today telegraphed his ambassa-
TtfJ' ' dor as follows fr0m his headquarters
m '' aL Queretaro:
ictm "The murderous attack on the pas-
inM J secger train, near Chihuahua "vas
: made by the only remaining band of
5f ' : outlaws! This band is pursued by
)Ua my troops v.'ith a view to insure its
'e4J capture whereupon punishment, which
lnM ' their crime deserves, will be applied
elJ j to every guilty participant.
nsB "Troops of the constitutionalist gov-
m. i ornment have been ordered to estab-
lish patrols from end to end of the
lailroad line in order to prepare
V: ' against similar outrages."
I General Carranza's dispatches was
m : the first direct assurance that he will
,v comply with the urgent representa-
M tions of the United States govern-
fll raent. Upon, the success of the steps
m ;. he takes the next move in the Mexi-
Ty can situation seems to depend.
ajS-t' After Chairman Stone, of the sen-
MT ate foreMgnrelatlohs' "commUCee, liad
lM '-1 discussed the situation with the pres-
" ' ident, he returned to the senate cham-
rM 1 - ber and again expressed the view that
cm:' the United States should not move
tM ' : toward armed intervention until the
hlM Carranza government had dcraonstrat-
Wi ed whether it was capable of control-
M ' . ling the country. .
W: - Senator Works, Republican, intro-
in! ' duccd a resolution proposing armed
rf; ; Intei vention and declared that cou-
T: k gross should share with the president
M; ; the responsibility for whatever is
'dml ' done
State department dispatches added
am virtually nothing new to the situation
Bi in Mexico.
iej I El Paso, Texas. Jan. 14. United
vj ' States army patrols were withdrawn
,? - trom the business district today. Tran-
M ' quillty prevailed where last night riot-
fl oufl scenes were enacted, attributed to
W ; resentment against the killing of
M' Americans at Santa Ysabcl, Chlhua-
ax ; hua. When the disorders passed be
a ' ! yond control of the local police, army
toB ' I patrols were sent to assist local of fi-
i cers In quelling the disturbances
fl i A call was circulated today for a
aej j mass meeting to protest against the
edM- "massacre of Santa Ysabel."
)VfM I : Mayor Tom Lea. however, stopped
o the circulation of the call and forbade
fli! the meeting until Americans now in
JB ? Mexico could be brought to the bord-
!i : er.
9p ; Generals Are Executed.
flf Generals Jose Ridrlguoz and Almc-
H , Ida were executed at Madeira shortly
H after their arrest, according to a dis-
Sjl patch received by the Moxican con-
H sul from General Jacinto Trevino to-
S( Andreas G. Garcia, Mexican consul
; declared toaay in answer u u. iuhu.vi
' Inquiry, that no armed expeditionary
Ht force of Americans would be pormit
B ted to enter Mexico to run down Villa
K and his bandits.
Special Bringing Foreigners.
1 A long special train left Chihuahua
at 8:30 o'clock this morning for Juar
H ql bearing, it was said, all foreigners
f to the border that could be persuaded
I1 to leave the district They Included
all emploves of the American Smelt
ing and R'efining company.' A special
train left Juarez early today for Par-
Hi ral, western Chihuahua, to bring out
H ; ' about two hundred foreigners in the
H ( camps there. There has been no tele-
M , graphic communication with Parral
H since January 10.
H i American Consul Edwards in Juarez
B i ' received orders from Secretary of
H State Lanalng to nottfy American con-
m suls and consular agents In Moxioo, m-
fl eluding those at Torreon and Chihua,-
: hua, to urge their nationals to leave
1 : northern Mexico and to communicate
jH tills order to the foreign consuls in
B : this cit5
w Mexicans Hato Americans.
;: A United Stales official sent toJu-
! arez to report upon stories of irri-
D'' tation there as the result of the Tiot-
H . : ins here last night, was stopped by a
S ' . Mexican who asked:
'i "What do thgrse gringoes mean by
H ; f killing Mexicans over tiere?"
,; Tbe official Tepiied that be had
1 ' ; heard nothing of it.
.B;r "They better ook out" retorted the
H ' Mexican.
it A report that three Mexicans bad
; been killed during the disorders In
El Pa30 Avaa denied by officials.
SE1 Paso, Texas, Jan. H- Slail ad
vices from Torreon Tecclveil today
, brought details of the occupation of
lMr Gomez Palado by Villa torces. These
nSB
.
t m
A,
. advices state that on January G, Villa
troops occupied Lerdo and Gomez
Palacio, suburbs of Torreon, that de
facto government forces retiring to
the latter city.
Mexican Outlawry Continues.
The Villa troops led by Calexico
Contras, Canuto Reyes and Pedro
Moreno destroyed rolling stock and
bridges and executed a number of
Mexicans leaving the bodies in the
streets of Gomez Palazio, a Torreon
suburb. The Carranza troops were
heard cannonading San Carlos to the
west and late January 7 they re-entered
Gomez Palacio executing drunken
Villa troopers. On January S the Vil
la troops withdrew from Lerdo and
nothing further was heard of them.
While in Gomez Palacio the Villa
troops declared the Carranza forces
were carrying the war to the peaceful
Mexicans and women and children in
the Laguna district, burning and loot
ing little native towns and killing
"without trial. General - ATgumedO,
leading a former Huerta force, was
reported to be at Picadias, south of,
and close to Torreon.
Boise, Ida., Jan. 14. Mining cir
cles in southern Idaho, are greatly
stirred over the murder by Mexican
bandits of Charles R Watson, and
Charles A. Pringle, both of whom
were well known in this part of the
state. Watson managed the Edna
mine near Idaho City, until six years
ago, when he took over the manager
of the Cusi property in Chihuahua.
Pringle was manager of the Yama
Copper company's mine at Bingham
Canyon, Utah, when he went to Mex
ico two years ago
oo
SENATOR STONE
DEFENDS WILSON
Chairman of Foreign Relations
Outlines Mexican Situation
Carranza Must Act.
POOR TIME FOR WAR
De Facto Government Must
Be Given Chance to Punish
Murderers of American
Citizens.
Washington, Jan. 14. Chairman
Stone of the senate foreign relations'
committee, conferred on the Mexi
can situation early today with Presi
dent Wilson. He said he was gath
ering information of the administra
tion's attitude with which to meet at
tacks In the senate. Senator Stone
said after his conference that he did
not expect American troops would be
sent into Mexico unless thore were
further developments to force it. He
considered it that the Villa element,
enraged by the recognition of Car
ranza, were determined to attack
Americans to force intervention. He
plainly indicated that the administra
tion will look to Carranza to control
the situation and punish bandits.
Senator Stone said there was no
present intention of calling a meet
ing of the foreign relations commit
tee to consider the pending resolu
tions proposing interference in Mex
ico. White House officials indicated
thai the resolution of Senator Lewis
of Illinois, the Democratic whip, au
thorizing the president to use armed
forces war, introduced without their
knowledge.
Monstrous to Go to War.
"It would be monstrous for the
United States to go to war with Mex
ico at such a time as this," declared
Senator Stone after his return to the
capital. "I was the original war man
in the senate -vhen there was no or
ganized government recognized by
thic. country. But now wc have rec
ognized a. government and It would be
absurd to rush in without giving that
government a chance to suppress and
punish the bandit bands that have
murdered American citizens.
Bandits Seeking Revenge.
"We know the3o bandits are seek
ing blood of Americans for revenge.
'I think that Americana who venture
i
into such places and Americans who
venture forth on belligerent ships in
to war zones are committing a crime
against the government whose pro
tection they seek. Of course, we must
try to protect them. We have a
technical legal right to go into such
dangerous places, but wc should not
do it, If possible to avoid it, and
thus embarrass the "United States.
"I am not convinced that it will
not be necessary to go into Mexico,
but this is an absurd time to talk of
war."
Ambassador Suggests Plan.
General Carranza's ambassador here
today suggested to his government
that" all Americans in dangerous dis
tricts be compelled to come into gar
risoned places where Carranza troops
can protect them.
Secretary Lansing asked Mr. Arre
dondo to request General Carranza to
provide at once trains and guards
for the removal of Americans who
wished to leave endangered localities.
Mr. Arredondo forwarded the re
quest with his endorsement and his
own suggestion that Americans in
danger be compelled to go into a safe
ty zone if it be necessary to force
them to do so.
on
CARS OF BUTTER
SENT TO RUSSIA
Chicago Rushes Twenty-five
Carloads to New York to
Be Sent Out in Single
Consignment.
New York, Jan. 14. As showing
the heavy shipments of food supplies
now being made from this port to
Russia, it was stated today that a
special train of twenty-five cars load
ed with butter, was rushed here from
Chicago within forty-eight hours in
order to be shipped on board the
steamer Czaritza, another vessel leav
ing yesterday for Russia. The amount
of this shipment is understood to
have exceeded all records for a sin
gle consignment. This is believed to
ba .tS first American-made butter,
ever stripped to Russia.
Dealers say that America has but
ter to spare and that they are anxious
to extend their exports as the hold
ings of storage butter in refrigerating
plants throughout the country are
heavier than a year ago.
The report of the Associated Ware
houses on January 1 showed there
uere in forty-five leading houses, 35,
338,000 pounds of butter in storage,
an increase of nearly ten million
pounds over the supply stored one
year ago
oo
FRENCH ARREST
Last Functionary of Embassy
in Paris in Custody Wife
and Daughter Interned.
Paris, Jan. 13. As repnsauls for
the internment of the French subject
in Turkey, the French authorities to
day arested Salil Bey archivist of the
Turkish embassy and the last func
tionary of the embassy remaining on
duty here. His wife and daughter al
so will be placed in confinement.
Salil Bey figured promlnontly in a
double tragedy that occurred on Jan
uary 14, 1914, at the Paris residence of
his Tather-in-law, General Mehmed
Cherif Pasha, one of the chiefs of the
radical Turkish party. A strange
Turk who called to see the Ottoman
politician shot and killed a valet who
refused him admission. The assassin
wns Immediately killed by Salil Bey
who was In the house.
MISSION WORKER
LOST ON PERSIA
Rev. Homer R. Salisbury.
Among1 the American reported to
have lost their lives in the sinking of
the steamer Persia in the mediter
ranean was Homer L. Salisbury, the
head of the Seventh Day Adventist
missions service in Persia.
COLD AND HUNGER
PINCHING POOR
Third Day of Intense Cold
Brings Overwhelming Num
ber of Calls for Aid.
MANY ACCIDENTS OCCUR
Railroads Resuming Traffic
'Weather " Bureau Predicts
Break in Low Temper
tures. Kansas City, Mo., Jan. 14 Pass
ing of the high pressure area to the
upper Mississippi valley and Great
Lakes region today is bringing relief
to the southwest from the cold wave.
The mercury rose from four to nine
degrees in Missouri over night, a lit
tle more in Kansas and Oklahoma,
while in northern and western Texas
the readings reported to the local
weather bureau generally were ten
degrees higher than yesterday.
Slowly rising temperatures with in
creasing cloudiness that may bring
snow in Missouri, Kansas and the
northern part of Oklahoma were pre
dicted At Kansas City the mercury stood
at 7 1-2 degrees below zero at 6
o'clock this morning. Four and one
half hours later it had risen to the
zero mark.
Des Moines, la., reported 1G degrees
below zero at 7 a. m. Omaha ex
perienced 12 below; St. Joseph ten
below; Concordia, Kan., S below;
Dodge City, 2 above; Fort Smith,
Ark., 1G above and Corpus ChristI,
Tex., 24 above.
Wiro conditions were much im
proved and trains were resuming nor
mal schedules.
Kansas City, Mo., Jan. 14. The
third day of the cold wave in the
southwest dawned today with no pros
pect of Immodiate relief. The tem
perature officially recorded here at 2
a. m. today was minus 7 As a result
the poor of many cities were faced
with tho likelihood of cold and hun
ger. Charity organizations were over
whelmed with calls for aid.
While slightly moderating tempera
tures were predicted ror today there
was no expectation of general relief
from the cold before tho end of the
week. Iowa, Nebraska, Kansas; Mis
souri and Oklahoma slept last night
v.'ith the mercury still below the zero
mark the many housewives in the nat
ural gas territory awoke to the neces
sity of boiling the morning coffee on
improvised heaters because the gas
supply was weak, due to the abnormal
.demands.
Numerous acidents were ascribed
indirectly to the cold in the explosion
of frozen water heaters lighted be
fore they were thawed, or the over
heating of stoves so as to cause fires.
The Missouri river was frozen over
near Leavenworth, Kansas, for the
first time in three years.
St. Paul, Minn., Jan. 14. Gradually
rising temperatures throughout the
central northwest states today brought
relief from the intense cold of the last
two days and enabled railroads to re
sume normal service. In the twin
cities the temperature was 17 de
grees below early today as compared
with 23 below two hours previously.
Chicago, Jan. 14. The cold weather
which has prevailed in the middle
west for the last 3G hours continued
today but the weather bureau predict
ed higher temperatures before night.
In this morning at 7 a. m. street
thermometers in the downtown dis
trict registered four degrees below
zero.
Railroad traffic west of Chicago is
still far from normal, although re
ports from Iowa and Minnesota where
the most serious trouble was encount
ered from the storm, state that condi
tions are improving.
uu
Hill SNUWulUKM
Southern Pacific Trains Stop
ped Western Pacific Rout
ing Trains Through Fea
i ther River Canyon.
Sacramento. Cal., Jan 14 A heavy
snowstorm sweeping the Sierra Ne
vadas stopped passenger and freight
traffic over the mountains by way
of the Southern Pacific Railway com
pany today.
The Western Pacific is still routing
trains through the Feather river can
jon where a big storm is raging.
Weather Moderating.
Denver, Colo., Jan. 14. With low
pressure aroa west of tho Continental
Divide, moderate temperatures were
reported today by the weather bureau
in New Mexico, Colorado. Utah, New
Mexico, Arizona, Idaho and Nevada.
Warmer temperature was predicted
for Colorado tonight although the low
est temperatures in the last twenty
four hours were above zero.
oo
Dikes Burst and People Flee
for Lives Greater Part of
North Holland Facing
Disaster.
Amsterdam, Jan. 14, via London.
Tho Telegraaf reports that the Zuyder
Zee dike at Katwoudc has burst and
that Zuid Polner has been flooded.
The inhabitants of that place were
obliged to abandon it and have fled to
Edam, which is partly flooded, the
newspaper adds.
A later message from Edam says
that the dike protecting Polderezee
vang Is in danger and that if it breaks
the result will be the flooding of the
greater part of north Holland.
uu
St. Louis, Mo . Jan. 14. Three hun
dred thousand muskrat furs were to
be sold hero today at the fur auction
which has attracted buyers from all
over tho world. Seventy thousand op
possum skins and 51,000 skunk skins
also were to be auctioned off.
I LATEST BRITISH BATTLESHIP TO BE SUNK BY GERMAN MINE
Battleship King Edward VII.
Another pang to the British public was caused by the announcement of the loss of the battleship King
Edward VII, which was blown up by a mine. The entire crew was saved. The displacement of the King Ed
ward VII was 16,350 tons. She carried four 12-inch puns, four 9.2-inch, ten G-inch, twelve 12-poundcrs and
itwelve S-pounders.
ENTENTE ALLIES LANDING TROOPS
IN LARGE NUMBERS AT SALONIKI I
Officers Believe They Can Make a Second Ypres of Saloniki H
Czar Nicholas Declares There Can Be No Peace Without H
Decisive Victory Austro-Montenegrin Armistice H
Is Reported Invasion of Montenegro Grave
Menace to Italians Fierce Artillery Fights
in Progress Along Austro- M
Italian Front. . . H
London, Jan. 14. The Dutch steamer Princess Juliana H
arrived at Gravesend today, bringing the body of the captain H
and seven members of the crew of the Dutch steamer Maas H
Haven, which was abandoned on fire after striking a mine. H
A Lloyd's dispatch from Rotterdam says the-other mem- H
bers of the crew were saved. H
Vienna, Jan. 14, via London, 2:50 a. m. The capture H
of Cettinje capital of Montenegro, was announced by the war H
office.
The official announcement states: lfl
"The capital of Montenegro is in our hands. Our troops H
pursuing the beaten enemy yesterday afternoon entered Cet- H
tinje. The residences of the Montenegrins and the town are H
undamaged. The population is calm." " ' -"""TM
Berlin, Jan. 14, by wireless to Say-
ville. Dispatches from Sofia says
th?t Information has been brought
there by a person who left Saloniki
January S that the allies continue to
lauo. forces on a considerably in
creased scale at Saloniki and at Or
fano bay. No purpose of taking the
offensive has yet been displaj'ed on
the part of the allies who, according
to this information, have completed
their second line of defense.
The allies at Saloniki are said to
have grown exceedingly optimistic
and their officers express the belief
that they can make a second Ypres
of Saloniki.
Furious Fighting on Italian Front.
Rome, via London, Jan. 13, 959 p.
m. The following official communi
cation was issued today:
"Along tho whole front artillery ac
tions continue aided by aeroplanes.
The enemy's batteries hurls incen
diary projectiles on our positions
around Altissimo and in the valley of
Terragno-Le and on the Borgo, with
out damage.
"Our artillery destroyed enemy
shelter oast of Oregonie pass at Vis
end o and dispersed troops and rovic
tuolling columns on the march in the
Roder valley and Seebach. In the
sector of Javornik in the Plezzo bas
in and San Martino Dalcarso, we re
pulsed enemy attacks.
"On the lower Isonso the enemy
artillery fired on Gradisca Sagrado
and Monfalcone. Our artillery re
sponded bombarding Devataki and Op
pachiasella On Tuesday one of our
aeroplanes dropped bombs on bar
racks in the Breguzzo zone in the val
ley of the Giudicaria, returning un
harmed." No Peace Without Victory.
London. Jan. 14. Reuter's Petro
grad correspondent says that Emperor
Nicholas, in an imperial order to the
Russian army and navy on the occa
sion of the Russian New Year's day,
proclaimed that there can be no
peace without victory.
Ihe order said:
"On the threshold of the year 191G,
I send to you my greetings, my brave
warriors. In heart and thought I am
vith vou while you battle in the
trenches, imploring the aid of the
most high on your work, your valor
and your courage. Remember this:
Our beloved Russia cannot be assured
of her independence and her rights;
cannot enjoy the fruits of her labors
or develop her resources unless a de
cisive victory Ms gained over the eu
emy." Austrians Expel Montenegrins.
Berlin, Jan. 13, by wireless to Say
ville. The Austrian official commu
nication received here today, says:
"Austro-Hungarian detachments ad
vancing on the Adriatic have expelled
the Montenegrins from Budua (a for
tified port in Southern Dalmatia) and
occupied Mont Maim Vrh north of the
town, detachment in the Lovcen dis
trict yesterday evening were fighting
six kilometers (about 3 3-4 miles)
from Cettinje.
"Engagements near Grahovo also
were favorable for the Austro-Hungar-ians.
who advanced into the valley
of the Austro-Hungarian frontier dis
trict south of Avtovac (Herzegovina)
and suppressed the enemy who was
expelled from his high positions.
""On the East Galicia and Bessara
bian fronts there have been only iso
lated artillery duels. The Austro
Hungarians, contrary lo the assertion
of the Russians, still occupy the same
positions east of the Strlpa east of
the Bessarabiau front as from the
Christinas offensive the only excep
tion being the section o : one batta
lion, which was taken back 200
P!l"ietalian artillery has shelled the
towns of Crete and Por in Giudicaria
and Nago, east of Riva.
"Enemy aviatois threw bombs on
Koncone without doing any damage.
The Austro-Hungarian artillery fired
upon the Italian camp and barracks
south of Pontafel and set them on
fire
"On the coastal front,, there have
been artillery duels In the Tolmino
and Doberdo sections."
Review of War Situation.
London, Jan. 14. 11:50 a. in. It Is
.-uthoritatively announced today that
the reported offensive of the Teutonic
allies did not occur. The rumors that H
the attack had begun against the for- M
ce3 of the allies, apparently origiuat- H
ed in the activity of the French in M
blowing up the bridges connecting H
Saloniki with the road over which H
the attackers would normally travel. . H
Bridges were destroyed by tbo H
French not only at Demir Hissar on M
the Struma, near Serres but also at M
Kilindir, south of Doiran. All the M
bridges .destroyed were in Greek ter- J
Austro-Montenegrin Armistice. -
Tho rumors that Austria and Mon- H
tencgro have suspended hostilities for H
the purpose of discussing arrange- JM
ments whereby further -warfare on lfl
Montenegrin soil should he stopped,
may be based simply on the face of M
the Austrian advance in Montenegro H
has become so slow that suspicion M
of a suspension of hostilities is nat- H
urally aroused Military critics, bow- "
ever, are of the. opinion that Mon- H
tenegro is now in such a position that jH
somo form of arrangements with her IH
adversary has become imperative. M
Attitude of Italy. H
Somo speculation is rife as lo the H
attitude which Italy has adopted with H
regard to the invasion of Montenegro IH
by tho Austrians which constitutes a H
grave menace to Italian interests. 1
The' fact that Italy's super-fleet did. jH
not prevent an Austrian squadron -H
fiom assisting in the reduction of H
Mount Lovcen which dominated the H
harbor of Cattaro Is being comment- "H
ed upon, though experts admit that IH
there is not a sufficient basis of in- 'H
formation from which to draw deduc- IH
tions in the matter and they suggest H
that Italy's action in the" present H
juncture should be awaited before H
judgment is passed, and that action. jH
thev point out would naturally be H
kept secret as long as possible. tM
News of the developments in the H
military operations in Galicia and JM
Bessarabia is awaited with much in- H
terest here and it Is observed that Jm
both sides are unusually reticent with H
regard to tho operations. Austria H
usually sends out the first informa- VM
tion on the military activities in that H
region, but beyond a general review H
of the Russian offensive movement jH
she gives today but little light on the m
happenings on her eastern front. The m
Austrian military authorities affirm m
that the solo result of the Russian of- H
fenstve to date has been the pushing H
back of one Austrian battalion for a m
few hundred yards. H
OFFICERS ARE ELECTED. H
Pocatello, Ida., Jan. 13 The Fed- m
eral union, a branch of the American . IH
Federation of Labor, met and elected jH
officers last night as follows: G. R. H
Fish, president; Andrew Smith, vice H
president; Edward Walsh, financial JM
secretary Edward Farley, recording m
secretary; C M Hawes. treasurer. m
and J. S. Dorsey, guide. jM
-oo H
Read the Classified Ads. J
-oo- 1
GETS THE BRITISH
OFF TURKISH SOIL H
- General SirrfW..K.Birdw?od H
