THE RONAN PIONEER e
matter May 12, 1910, at the post- The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
office at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1879.
VOL. VI. NO. 38. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, JANUARY 14, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
SENATE CONFIRMS
RONAN OFFICIAL
Last week the senate confirmed the
appointment of Joseph A. Lemire as
postmaster at Ronan. Just before the
holidays his appointment was an
nounced by the president and sent to
the senate, where matters were hung
up over the holiday recess. There was
no opposition to his confirmation and
when the matter was called up im
mediately after the senate convened
after the holidays, it went through in
regular order.
The term of the present postmaster,
Mr. A. M. Sterling, expires January
16th, but Mr. Lemire states that the
change will not occur until February 1.
The postoffice has been in excellent
hands ever since Mr. Sterling took
charge, some seven or eight years ago,
and it is good to know that his suc
cessor will be equally obliging and
competent. The whirl of politics is en
tirely responsible for the change in
postmastership.
Mr. Lemire announces that the of
fice will be moved to a new building
now under construction adjoining the
store of Lemire Bros, on the east. The
new home will be 20x30 feet in size,
with a lobby 20x20 feet.
It will be ao arranged that the lobby
will be open at all hours of the day,
allowing patrons of the office having
lock boxes to procure their mail at any:
time, whether the postmaster is there
or not. This will be a great improve
ment and convenience, especially on
Sundays and holidays when the office
is closed except upon the arrival and
departure of the mails.
Mr. Lemire's confirmation by the
senate closed a spirited postoffice fight
in Ronan, the main issue being the
location. In the melee Mr. Lemire
came out an easy winner, with Con
gressman John M. Evans the greatest
loser. So far as the selection ofMr.
Lemire as postmaster is concerned,
there has been little real objection and.
the contest between the aspirants has
been a friendly one. All the trouble
has been caused by the slippery con
gressman from Western Montana. He
has tried to play both ends of the
string from the middle and has made a
complete failure of the job. He prom
ised everything to everybody, knowing
at the time the promise would not be
kept. Had he come out in the start,
and told the people his selection had
been made, afd been honest as to the
location, he would still have a few
friends in Ronan. But instead of this
he encouraged all of the aspirants to
get into the race, stating that nothing
had been settled and that they had as
good a chance as anybody else, while
at the very time he was telling them
he knew that the position had been
pledged to another for the past two or
three years. He was equally as de
ceptive about the location, promising
one thing to one faction, something
else to another, and so on down the
line. His line of political play might
be expected from a ward heeler in the
slums of New York or some other
large city, but hardly from a man sup- r
posed to be equal to the job of repre
senting a great state like Montana in
the halls of congress. The fruits of
his labor will undoubtedly show up
well at the coming November harvest. r
But aside from all this, Ronan is go
ing to have a new postmaster. Ronan
is going to have a good new postmaster
to take the place of the good retiring t
postmaster. The patrons of the office s
will be satisfied with future service as,
they have been with the service of theb
past, and the change in location and
officials will be made without inconven- 1
lence and without the least animosity
on the part of one contending faction,
against the other. A truce has been
declared and the dove of peace perches:
on the town of Ronan. In1
RESERVATION CORN
WINS AT Si. PAUL
The reservation country won two
more prizes at the St. Paul corn show,
that closed recently, according to F.
M. Lawrence, secretary of the Mis
soula county fair. The first prizes an
nounced were awarded Robert Bennett,
Jr,, and Albert Sattley, both of Leon,
and now comes the awards given H. A.
Newton and W. H. Sabin, of St. Ig
natius, the former winning first prize
and the latter second price.
The winning of these prizes should
convince the farmers of this valley
that they can raise corn and will prob
ably be the means of inducing others
to make an effort in corn production.
STATE POPULATION GROWS
School Cý,nsus Indicates There Are
Over 500,000 People.
In spite of figures sent to Montana
by a Washington news bureau which
claims it had them from the govern
ment bureau of census that the popu
lation of this state is 475,000, school
statistics collected in the office of
State Superintendent H. A. Davee
it Helena show that there are 559,000.
The figures of the Washington
news bureau give Montana an increase
of only 81,000 people over the cen
sus of 1910, which is regarded as a
ridiculously low estimate, In view of
i the great number of new settlers who
have filed on homesteads during that
time, not to mention the numbers of
people who have been attracted to the
state by the unusual prosperity here.
It is the claim of the news bureau
that the growth this year was only
13,000.
In 1910, when the government cen
sus was taken, Montana had a popu
lation of 376,053. The census of the
school children the same year showed
there were 88,805 pupils attending the
public schools. This would be an
average of 4.3 members in every fam
ily in the state.
While the figures on the school cen
sus have not been received at the
state superintendent's office a suf
ficient number of counties have filed
their school census figures to indicate
that there were 130,000 pupils in
Montana's schools during 1915.
If the same ratio of 4.3 members
to each family holds true this year as
in 1910 the population at present
would be 559,000, or an increase in
five years of nearly 200,000.
LOUIS NEWMAN RE-ELECTED
Business Men of Great Falls Want
Him to Lead Another Year.
Louis Newman was accorded a sig
nal honor by members of the Great
Falls Commercial club when he was
unanimously re-elected president. It
has been the practice to elect a new
president each year. Andrew Thisted
and J. H. Irwin were re-elected vice
presidents and W. A. Brown treasurer.
The reports showed a membership of
476, compared to 122 a year ago, when
Newman became president. Contribu
tions of $12,700 were made, compared
to $6,200, the previous high mark. The
club has landed a $1,000,000 beet sugar
factory which will be operated by
1917.
a MILLING COMPANY EXPANDS
Will Build More Elevators-Opens a
Branch at Great Falls.
In order to handle its business in
Northern and Eastern Montana the
Gallatin Valley Milling company,
which is the grain department of the
Fisher Flouring Mill company of Seat
s tIe, Wash., has opened a branch office
0 at Great Falls. The company handled
3,000,000 bushels of wheat out of the
Great Falls territory from the time
threshing started until Dec. 31 and it
proposes to work the territory much
more closely next year. It has an
nounced it has sites for more than a
dczen new elevators which will be con
structed next year.
Woman Accused of Murder.
Mrs. Geomgiana Steele, thirty-two
years old, of St. Paul, has been ar
rested by the St. Paul police and held
at headquarters there pending the ar
rival from Glendive, Mont., of Sheriff
George Tribbell, who wired that Mrs.
Steele is wanted on a charge of mur
der. Alexander Steele, husband of
Mrs. Steele, was shot and killed Feb.
16, 1913, on the Yellowstone bridge
near Glendive.
Fire Destroys Darby Stores.
The business section of Darby, in
the western part of the state, was de
stroyed by fire, five business buildings
and two dwellings being consumed.
The loss is $25,000. The high school
building at Laurel also was gutted by
fire, causing an estimated loss of
5301.000.
Exam. for Rural Carrier
The United States Civil Service Com
I mission has announced an examination
for the county of Missoula, Montana,
to be held at St. Ignatius on February
5, 1916, to fill the position of rural car
rier at Ronan and vacancies that may
later occur on rural routes from other
post offices in the above mentioned
county. The examination will be open
only to male citizens who are actually
domiciled in the territory. Applications
should be forwarded to the commission
at Washington at the earliest practic
able date.
Fixing the Family
Congressman John M. Evans has
named his brother as postmaster at
Bozeman, and his brother-in-law, John
W. Lister, as postmaster at Missoula.
The Hon. John M. believes in making
hay while the sun shines, and the fu
ture political career of the Hon. John
M. has every indication of being a
cloudy one.
WITHOUT MOVING THE HAT.
-Harding in Brooklyn Eagle.
LUSITANIA CASE
NEARING FINISH
Washington, Jan. 11.-Dntficulty in
agreeing upon details is holding up a
final settlement of the Lusitania con
troversy.
Count von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador, and Secretary Lansing
had another conference and it was
said later that no final agreement had
been reached, although the outlook is
encouraging.
While the United States and Ger
many virtually have agreed on the es
sential principles involved it was
learned that until a method of ex
pressing these principles satisfactory
to both sides is found announcement
of a settlement will be withheld.
Count Bernstorff was informed in ef
fect by Secretary Lansing that the
wording of the tentative proposal sub
mitted last week by Germany, and
since considered by President Wilson,
is inadequate in certain respects.
A feeling of optimism regarding the
ultimate outcome of the negotiations
apparently prevails both in official and
Teutonic diplomatic circles.
It is freely predicted that a settle
ment acceptable to both governments
should be reached by next Monday, un
less unforeseen events intervene.
By Monday Count von Bernstorfi
should receive a reply to a dispatch
prepared for the Berlin foreign office.
This is believed to contain the re
sults of his latest efforts and sugges
tions regarding certain desires of the
United States to be embodied in the
final settlement.
New Restrictions Announced.
Washington, Jan. 11.-Restrictions
to govern the emigration of British
subjects of military age from Eng
land, Scotland, Ireland or Wales are
contained in new regulations announc
ed to the state department by Sir Ce
cil Spring-Rice, the British ambas
sador.
Submarine Stranded; Crew Dies.
London, Jan. 11.-A German subma
rine, evidently bound for the Mediter
ranean, stranded thirty miles south
east of Cadiz and her crew of thirty
asphyxiated, according to advices
brought by the Spanish steamer Vald
mar, arriving from Cadiz,
Two British Airmen Killed.
Eastbourns, Eng., Jan. 11.-An aero
plane, In which Lieutenant Gordon
Duke and Warrant Officer Fraser were
flying, fell and both men were killed.
FAMILY KILLED. BY TRAIN
Ohioan, Wife and Two Children Meet I
Instant Death.
Greenwich, 0., Jan. 11-Arthur 1
France, his wife and two children,
Harold and Helen, aged two and ten
respectively, were killed instantly
when a buggy, In which they were
driving across the Big Four railroad a
tracks, was struck by a passenger
train. C
The side curtains of the buggy were t
down, preventing a view of the tracks. t
MAKE GAINS AT
I SEVERAL POINTS
n London, Jan. 11.-While the Russian
a front has been quiet during the past
1. twenty-four hours there has.~been se
vere fighting in the other war thea
n ters.
g On the Montenegrin front the Aus
trians have been generally successful.
d They have advanced their positions at
several important points despite the
handicap of snow waistdoep, and are
showing themselves just as adept as
the Montenegrins in mountain fight
ing, which heretofore has been re
garded as the particular specialty of
the Montenegrin soldiers.
In Champagne the French have re
pulsed four German attacks. The Ger
mans, however, have retained a foot
hold at two places in the French ad
vanced trenches. In Persia, British
1 reinforcements on their way to the
relief of Kut-el-Amara have met Turk
ish forces which were compelled to
retire after some heavy fighting. f
The Petrograd official commn nica- i
tion says the calm on the Czernowitz I
front is due to the huge losses and re- I
suiting demoralization of the Austro
Hungarian army. That there is some t
basis for this statement is evident
from the estimate of the Hungarian
newspaper Pester Lloyd, that the
losses on both sides of the Bessara- e
hian battles so far exceeded 17:,000, t
or more than the total British losses
in the whole Dardanelles campaign. t
Another Hungarian newspaper a
states on the authority of a staff rep
resentative that the fighting on this
front has been the bitterest and 4
bloodiest In the history of the war, *l
both sides sacrificing men in a man- d
nor without parallel. "
The Saloniki front is chiefly notable *1
in the dispatches as the scene of the "1
almost continued aeroplane skirm- 4
ishes, one of which continued for tewo I
hours. The Germans have thus far "I
lost six aeroplanes in this region. 4
In the Balkans reports persist that 4
the GermanI are cencentrating at 4
Monastir preparatory to an attack on 4
Saloniki, but the interest in the Mace- 4
donian campaign has become see- 4
ondary to the operations of the Aus- 4
trians In Montenegro. 4
RUNCIMAN WINS APPLAUSE 2
Says Allies Must Prevent Germany 4
Waging Trade War.
London, Jan. 11.-Walter Runci- 8
man, president of the board of trade,
won tremendous applause from the
house of commons with a speech in G
which he declared that the entente 1i
allies must take steps to see that Ger- a
many Is unable to carry on a trade it
war against them after peace is signed. 1
"There are signs," he said, "that at a
last Germany is beginning to feel the 10
economic pressure of our blockade.
Her food supplies are becoming de- re
pleted, while ours are increasing. la
"Although our exports have fallen e
and our imports have risen there is
no doubt that the economic strength th
of Great Britain is so well founded th
that we can stand the strain far bet- se
ter than the central powers. ti
"We must make it clear, however,
that when peace comes we will not
permit the outbreak of the economic
war which Germany would wage
against ourselves and our allies."
PRAISES BRITISH ACTION
Premier Asquith Refers to Withdraw
ing From Turkey.
London, Jan. 11.-The British retire
ment from the Dardanelles was re
ferred to by Premier Asquith in ad
dressing the house of commons.
"The house will learn with extreme
gratification of the retirement of the
force at Cape Helles (at the tip of the
Gallipoli peninsula), without the loss
of a single life," the premier said.
"Of eleven guns left behind ten
were worn out fifteen-pounders, ren
dered unfit for further service before
they were abandoned. -
"All stores of reserve ammunition
which could not be removed were set
afire before the retirement. The
whole retirement was conducted with
minimum losses.
"These operations, taken in conjunc
tion with the earlier ones from Sivla
and Anzac, are, I believe, without
parallel in military or naval history."
Suffragists Oppose Conscription.
London, .1an. 11.--Suffragists held a
demonstration in Ilyde park to pro
test against the compulsion bill. Ad
Iresses were made by numerous
speakers, women and men, from five
platforms, around which large crowds
gathered.
Krupp Plant Damaged by Fire.
Amsterdam, Jan. 11.-Fire destroy
ed the wheel works plant at the Krupp
gun works at Essen and also damaged
other plants, according to advices
from Berlin.
TRAIN HITS CAR; FOUR DEAD
Twenty Injured When Big Four
Freight Collides With Trolley.
Springlield, O., Ian. 11.--Four per
sons were killed and twenty injured,
many of them seriously, when a
freight train on the Big Four railroad
struck a street car here. Most of the
victims of the accident were factory
employes returning from work.
The street car was carried forty
feet down the track on the front of the
-em~gine.
CITIES MAY LIMIT SMOKE
Supreme Court Rules in Case Arising
From Des Moines,
Washington, Jan. 11.--The power of
cities to enact ordinances against the
emission of smoke of a certain degree
of density for a certain length of
time, was upheld by the supreme court
in pronouncing valid the iDes Moines
smoke ordinance, attacked by a laun
dry in that city.
Drug Amendment Upheld.
Washington, Ian. 11.-The Sherley
amendment of 1902 to the federal pure
food law, declaring drugs misbranded
if the package or label bears or con
tains false and fraudulent statements
regarding the curative or therapeutic
effects thereof, was upheld as consti
tutional by the supreme court.
Strikers Return to Work.
New York, Jan. 11.--Seven hundred
and fifty men, who struck last week at
the Jersey City plant of the Crucible
Steel Company of America, returned
to work on the promise of the man
agement to consider tl4dr demands.
+..........I...++++. +.+..+...+...
+ +
+ SAYS ALL COWS LOOK ALIKE + I
+ AT NIGHT. + t
.. --- + t
+ Miles CityMonl.,Jan.8.-That "I"
+ all cows look alike at night + l
"I" and that in the darkness he "*"
+ could not tell whether he was + v
+ slaughtering one of his own + I
+ or one of his neighbor's, was 1+
+ the plea advanced by M. E. ""
+ Bailey, a dairyman living near " s
+ this city, as his reason for the + a
+ alleged butchering of a cow be- +
+ longing to a neighbor, Richard +I
+ Eacock. Bailey was held to +
+ district court in the sum of +
+ $750, which was furnished. +
I" The charge is grand larceny. + P
*1 +
+++++++I+++++++++ o
BRITAIN SHORT OF COTTON e
New York, Jan. 9.-Reports from
Galveston that the British government 0
has fixed a cotton freight rate of $2 w
a hundred pounds, coupled with the b
information that Great Britain is fac- h
ing a serious cotton shortage, caused w
an advance of several points on the p
local exchange.
The reports in regard to the freight t]
rate were afterward denied from Dal
las, where it was stated that the rate o
was firm at $3. a
The denial, however, did not shake ls
the confidence of cotton brokers that
the British government was planning o1
some steps to increase the importa- h,
tion of cotton. a
"BUFFALO" JOE
SAYS IT'S A CINO
"Buffalo" Joe Hainebach-everybody
knows "Buffalo"-landed in Missoula
the other day from the coast, where he
1- has been peddling hot air and Navejo
rugs to the visitors at the big fair. He
e had no more than landed in Missoula
e until he opened business in the hot air
s line and selected a reporter on the
Missoulian for his first victim.
n "The Northern Pacific is going to
i- build its Flathead branch line during
e the coming season without a question
of doubt," said "Buffalo." "I got
my information from one of the traffic
t officials of the road in Seattle, and it
came in such a way that I cannot doubt
it. He said that the allotments for
1916 improvements include the special
z item for the building of the Flathead
t line and that plans are being made al
ready to get the work started early in
the spring."
Commenting on the above interview,
I Sunday's Missoulian says;
"It may be that Mr. Hainebach has
the right "dope" about the plans of
the Northern Pacific. From several
sources the same story has reached
Missoula recently. Only a few days
ago Assistant General Manager Rapel
je gave out a statement in Livingston
to the effect that his company was
planning considerable construction in
Montana this year and that a large
number of men would be used. He re
fused to go into details, but what he
said in a general way seems to lend`
color to the Flathead branch story."
r
Democratic Club Meeting
To the members of the Ronan Dem
a ocratic Club:
(I On account of the cold, the meeting
C held Jan. 11th was not wall attended,
y and no business was transacted. It
was adjourned to Jan. 18 at 8 p. m., to
e be held in the assembly room of the
new school house in.Iionan. Important
business relating to the welfare of the
party will come before the meeting, A
full attendance is requested.
g Notice is also given that the regular
annual meeting of said club will be
held at J. N. Bailey's office in Ronan
2 on Feb. 24, at 8:00 p. m., for the
election of officers and the transaction
t of any business which may come before
t it.
Also, at said last mentioned time and
place, the followimg amendment to the
constitution of said club will be pre
sented for action, viz:
By inserting after the first word in
sixth line of Article III of said con
stitution, the following: "Provided,
That women electors, otherwise eligi
ble, may become active members of
this club, upon application to the sec
retary, without the payment of dues.
Dated Jan. 12, 1916.
J. N. Bailey, Pres.
A. Sutherland, Sec'y.
CHANGE OF SENTIMENT
CAUSED BY EXPERIENCE
At the annual meeting of the incor
.- ated Farmers' Society of Equity of
*' Missoula county, held at Missoula
8 Monday, the attendance was large and
* the session was full of interest. While
the business clone during the past
year was considered, on the whole,
l" satisfactory, plans of improvement
were discussed and a committee was
appointed to formulate them.
The new officers elected were:
President, Harrison Danforth, Mis
soula; vice president, H. C. B. Colvill,
Missoula; secretary, W. H. Sabin, St.
Ignatius; treasurer, F. H. Lee, Leon.
In addition to much routine business,
the following resolution, submitted by
A. J. Newton of St. Ignatius, was
passed:
"Be it resolved, That it is the sense
of the Missoula County Society of
Equity, incorporated, that Missoula
county have an agricultural agent.
"Be it further resolved, That the
objections made to the agent last year
were made because the work was just
being started and that many farmers
had formed opinions without knowing
what the work of an agricultural agent
properly was and what assistance they
might get from him; but now many of
these have learned more of the work
of last year and will give their co-oper
ation, while last year they learned too
late to be helped.
"Be it further resolved, That a copy
of these resolutions be placed in the
hands of the county commissioners and
a copy handed to the press,
