.1916 jH
f
" I If ADVERTISING fTW aOSa,
Y CAN DO ALMOST ANYTHING UNDER THE SUN, BUT IT ft( I feffWaBStl 5s x4ki H
MUST HE APPLIED RIGHT. A DISSATISFIED SHARE. W I I STB IIT tTMk SS&'lll "Hi 'Wtl ..H
HOLDER IN THE ROCK ISLAND RAILROAD ..BEING ICON Ilk. " v I I IrrtQllSjEsSft I I I I -H
il INCBD THAT THE DIRECTORS OF THE ROAD WERE JJI&- 9USSlV 1ILIL Jl 1L H
X WRECKERS, STARTED A NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING CAM- Srr T S?-" gsV T H
X PAIGN TO RALLY DISSATISFIED SHAREHOLDERS AND POLITIPAI I Y RFPIIRIinAM H
-1 l! IN A SHORT TIME HAD A SUFFICIENT NUMBER OF PROX- , rULI I IOALLY, Hh.PUBL.ICAN. H
' Y IES TO DRIVE THE LOOTERS FROM THE PROPERTY. Entered ns Boond-Class Matter. Juno I. 11H, atjhe Po.tofrice nt Price. Utah. Under the Act of Mnrrh 3 1879 M
X r VOLUME 1; NUMBER 33. EVERY FRIDAY JANUARY 14 1918 H
t DECIDED TINE IN
I ! CUTTLE MARKET
,o v dvanci: or nrajia to thiii
8 , tv.kivi: cknth in phicim.
c
Y Hotelier Cnttlu Hold Steady nnd
Stocki rn nnd Fcetlcr Were Strong
Hog Market Advanced Twenty to
& Thirty Cent Lnt Week Sheep mid
t Lamb Open Weak, Cloe Strong.
8 orrcspondenco The Hun.
KANSAS CITV, Mo. Jan. 10 A
" X decided Improvement In tho tono of
the beef cnttlo market wan noted Innt
t week, and an advance of fifteen to
X olrty-flvo cent In prices. The small
spply Thursday was quickly sold,
Meera on tho Mocker order being ta-
- X ".en Bt strong prlre hy klllcru, which
" hey would hnvo scoffed nt tho first
4c t tho Meek. Mockers and feeders
X ld ten to fifteen cents higher tho
losing da) of tho week ltecelpts
iday aro fourteen thousand hcadt
c X """' early sales of steers nt IT CO to
18 1" 0 wero called strong, packers
wanting stock with which to licKln op
X ' rations In their plants for the day
Later steer sales developed weakness
v. The Inter mnrket vvn steadt to tin
icnts lower Hutcher cnttto sold
i Kleady and stoekers nnd feeders were
Ironic Host native steers hroiiKht
IS CO todn), highest price paid this
month, nnd hulk or the steers hrliiK
17 00 to IS 26 Iterelpts Included
evernl shipments of fed Westerns
from Northern Colorado, which found
sain nt 17 00 to 17 7' l'nnhnndlo
attlo sales Included feeders nt 17 76.
Mockers nt 17 26 nnd heef steers at
t. 17 OS Not ns many lown nnd Mln-
ursota cnttlo wore hero ns usual, ar-
rivals from thoso sections finding n
uulck sale nt firm prices, stock steers
nt 10.60 to 17.00. Blocker nnd feeder
V H trade U cxperlenrlnic tho usual Jnnu-
I Mary boost In prices, due to tho pnaslnir
? ZMt the halfway post of winter, nnd the
I IHuiual stimulation In nil lines of buil-
I Huess followInK the npenlnft of the now
i fJLi Hvear Fancy slock steers aro sclllnjr
Uh Hup to 11.00 nnd feeders mostly nt
"Vi ' Bh.76 to 17.(0, and n few heavy fleshy
i Hfeeders around ft 00
, H Tho hog market advanced twenty
Hto thirty cents last week, ulthouRh
( combined receipts ut tho markets was
Hnlose to n. record number for any one
Hweek. The supply today Is ngnln
heavy at Chliaxo nnd Northern mar
Hkets. but only fairly liberal here, nt
Mnaventeen thourand head, which num-
ber Includes thlrty-flvo hundred
iu. H brought In by packers for slaughter
in tho plants here. Tho Chicago mar
ket broku badly, nnd locnl prices were
ten to fifteen cents lower Top 16,10,
bulk 16.46 to 16,76 Tnckers take
tho heavy supplies greedily, nnd any
drop In tho supply would result In an
Immediate advance In prices.
Hheep nnd lambs opened weak to
day, but cloned strong, receipts thlr
r me. teen thousand head, Tho Into top on
lambs wns 110.06, und sale nt l.90
t to 110.00 wero common, lmlf-fat
IV vvn lambs selling nt 19.36 to 19.60, some
':'.,: flfty-flvo pound feeding lambs from
f ,., , n!!' B iu VMy nt 7B Wo,h-
. nr Vhl " hrought 16.90, owes 10.36. oar-
IV. p lings 18.40. Nona of these of highest
i.in.i. n. aualUy Salesmen have withstood nil
"'",,;"," recent efforts to depress prices, nnd
',!, ho Improvement toduy Is romarkablo
nunni. ,n (iW ((f ,ower re,,rtB from other
Vou0 t-lnu.
Ti.in Hh'M diimtxo or Hin:i:r
ill" sum" H 1K xo TO ,u: ':QU,:,
brought' V ArUonn ,m definitely nbandoned
iv nft.r B"" ' "f reciulrlng it second dip
ibovo en "lnR r u,nh "hw" "' cross the
t lotl to ,,n" to Krnf0 ,n th"t ,n,r' "rcor'lln
ilid costs H ,0 '''',' lniiunt'',mont '' A A. Cal
aber and K 'Ul,r secretary of tho stntn board of
by tilaln- '''', eommliuloners. Tho move
Juli A n mtni which wns started b wool
August Bro,'r'' " ArUonu on tho Ornnd
uslve at U ,,,n,m strln, wns reputed to be a
. ' of move on their pnrt to keep Utah wool
ont will Krovverii from letting their flocks
irdlnir to B looso nernss the line The move wns
t A J M isnted In this state. Inasmuch as
ace 1 I "", n,,eu ',,,ro m1 nlready been dip
laintirra H "l1 ""'It the direction of tho statu
K)ard. nnd a second dipping In Arl
7 196 H ,ona unu''' vvork u hardship on tho
' jfl Oorkiunsters,
' "" Thomas W Jones, chairman of the
I 162, Ftate board of sheep commissioners,
. wns In I.os Angeles recently nnd from
there he made n special trip to the
"wfllJ Xrlnon capital to discuss the matter
O vlth tho governor. CullUtnr has re-
2 elved a letter from Jonei. vvho was
J. given nuurnnco by thn governor of
3 ArUona that the northern woolgrow-
2J (t had withdrawn their request for
u regulation against Utah sheep, nnd
J" that nothing further would bo done In
iJ the matter
dorricinis nihcovnu .tust
ONK TiON'i: HOCUS DOIJiAlt
Thomas V Cnllaghan. who Is em
tdojod b Uno'.o Sam to make the
' uslness of eounterfeltlng both un
irofitable und unhenlthrul In this
....... 'ectlon, has returned to Zlon from
ningham, where he went to raid a
;ood ' rounterfelt plant that was reported
Tj,0 1 1 be In operation there Over tho
the ) '. H telephone ho was Informed that coun
aro Hterfelt dollars were putting In nn np
ndle ' ' onranco there In considerable num
Bet. " H hers, nnd that more woio being made
'end '.' M ecompanled by Sheriff John 8 Cor
' ' I A 1rM '10 'iurr,,id to ningham, but n
- ' ftre'u tonfoh only revealed one
) ' H ' ounterfelt dollar, wdrn down from a
. . onttant circulation for two or three
... arM The plant also fulled to mu-
terlnllie
ABANDONED.
flWHSIBJjMKKID
Ktrlrken With llenrt l'nllurv While
VNItlng 1'rleuds.
llrlcf mention of the denth of A. C.
Jones, n former resident of 1'rlce, nt
Iong llench, Cain., was made In a
rucont Issue, of Tho Huh. From tho
Iong lleach (Calo.) Dally Telegram
Is taken this more extended nccount
"Addison CIdo Jones, chorister of
the Trinity Methodist church, who
had planned to present u special pro
gram of Christmas muilc nt the
church Bunilay night, dropped dead
while visiting at tho homo of friends
In the afternoon, stricken with heart
fulluru to which ho had been sub
ject. "Members nnd others who gnthered
at tho church In tho evening were
shocked to lourn of tho demise of the
popular choirmaster, who had been
very active In tho vvork of tho church.
Tho muslinl program which Mr
Jones had planned for the evening
was not presented.
"Tho chorister's death occurred nt
tho homo of Mr and Mrs. Ah In II.
Newell, nldtlmo friends, who had In
vited Mr. und Mrs. Jones and children
to their residence to dine nnd spend
the afternoon. Thn members of tho
little party wero sitting In tho living
room chatting nt 3 30 o'clock when
the fatal stroke came.
"Mr. Jones was u native of Kansas
He tamo to Ixing Ileuih from Utah
two und n half jours ago und engnged
In the poultrj business Me leaves n
widow und three children, the oldest,
Olenn, Is n boy of 16 enrs, while
there Is a daughter 11 and n ear old
babe
"funeral services were hold from
Trinity Methodist church, Itev A. J.
Hughes, pastor, offlulutlug. Bpvclal
music wns rendered by tho choir of
wMoh Mr Jones hud been tho beloved
leader, ulso a solo, "I.ead Kindly
Light." by V J. Patterson. Floral of
ferings wero tunny nnd beautiful.
"Mr. Jones wus born In Ilurllngtun,
Kan, June 37, 1878. Ho engaged In
mercantile business for six jears In
1'rlce, Utah, until two ears ngu, with
his family, ho moved to Iing Heuch.
where he engaged In tho poultry busi
ness "Those left to mourn his death nro
his widow, n duughter, Margaret, two
sons, Glenn und Rldon, his mother,
Mrs Virginia Perry of Silver I.uke.
I ml , two brothers, O W Jones of
Wichita, Kun , und 11, I) Jones of,
Marlon, I ml , two sisters, Mrs A. O
Justko of Osage City, Kan , nnd Mrs.
J J I.luyd ut Price. Utah"
IIUI.HOAD MAX SYh THT
COAIi 'lltAITIC IS HllWVJ
Tho coal mines or the Curbon coun
tj district nie loading between three
nnd four hundred enrs dally nnd have
nn ample supply of cars uvallahle for
nil Immediate demands, according to
It C Ten Kjekof Helper, superin
tendent or tlie Ori-"i?ii Itlwr division of
the Denver nnd JtloNlrande. Super
intendent yen Kk caruo to Salt Iike
City jesterijay on one oft his periodical
visits to conrer with oVneral Super
Intedent AMI Appersoi, sa)s Satur-j
duyB Tribune, ,
Although the snavvfall has been,
heavy on same partirof his division, I
Ten Kvck said that It had not seri
ously Interfered with the movement
of traffic. The heuvlest snowfall has
been In the vicinity of, Orand Juno-tlnn.
The January Issue of the Carbon Is
now In the hands of thn printer and
will Issue ubi'it next Friday
U BffilM SHWUK
Prliv Coiniiirrtlnl nnd Savings Hunk
MnkeN Ouoc.1 HrHrt.
ntacwhoro In this Impression of The
Sun appears tho report of tho Price
Commercial nnd Havings bank to the
state bnnk commissioner nt tho close
of business December 29, 1916. Tho
Institution Is to be congratulated up
on Its excellent showing Tho liberal
patronnge It enJo)s combined with Its
conservative management has made It
a profitable Investment to Its stock
holders. Hut not nil of Its earnings
have been distributed In dividends, as
Is evidenced by tho accumulation of
surplus, undivided profits nnd re
serve for taxes, which, with tho capi
tal of 160,000. Its stockholders' llabll
Ity of 160,000, makes It n bulwark of
strength
Its mora than 1160,000 of commer
cial deposits comes, not from well
filled public treasuries subject to rap
id fluctuations, but from six hundred
depositors In ever. walk of life Its
savings deposits nnd time certificates
of 1110,000 speak for the thrift und
Industry or those who have chosen
this good Institution to safely guard
that fund which they ure accumula
ting for the "rainy day" or anticipated
Investment
The natlonnl thrift campaign being
waged by the National Kducutlon ns
sodutlou nnd the American Hankers'
association will, no doubt, Increase
their deposits In 1916 This )ear Is
tho hundredth anniversary of the es
tablishment of the first savings In
stitution Kut) person who has not
nlready u savings uceouut Is urged to
stnrt It with the earnings of the extra
day Februury wilt have because of
Imp ear.
The elimination of overdrafts Is re
ceiving tho commendation of the
bank commissioner and patrons, who
feel grcuter safety with such a condi
tion und greater satisfaction when
they know that there ure no privil
eged fovv for whoso benefit the Insti
tution Is run. More thun 167,000 of
reserve In dun form banks and insh
In the vaults Is attractive to patrons
The Institution has the well wishes
of Tho Bun, whose many readers hope
for it greater things In 1910 than
came to It In 1910
THREE nUSKSKHTD
Soldier ('iim)oii Itoiite Designated II)
hluto Itiwul CommUhloii,
Tho state road commission Monduv
doslguuted three state roads, one of
which was the contested roud (end
ing from Kmery county to Sanpete
I county This road will run rrom Or
.ungovllle to Kphralm, according to
the decision of the. road commission
Residents of Huntington desired that
the roud shiaild bit designated be
tween that towi and Fnlrvlevv In Ban
pete county Wato Treasurer Jesso
D Jewkes, who ftrulso a member of
the road commission, went over both
roads last week and made u report to
tho commission, recommending the
Orangevllle road
Another road dcslgnattd will run
from Price east to Soldier Cunvon,
and a third will run from Hrlgham
City to Colllnston and thence, to the
Cache county line
Mrs. Frank I liucklo gave a dinner
party Sunday In honor of her two
children, Oretohen and Charles, that
day being their birthday. In the of
ternoon n number of little tots were
Invited In to help celebrate the c.rcu
slon, at which time they were treattd
to several good things to eat.
COMMISSIONER IN SESSION
Small Amount of llu.lnewi Trnnonclcd
At Tucxlu)' Meeting.
At tho regular meeting of the coun
ty commissioners held last Tuesday
there wns ver little buslnnss trans
acted and nothing of nn Important
nature came before the board, unless
thn matter or reeding the county pris
oners would be iiiiisldervd a father
hefty one. The talk of tho different
members of the board seemed to In
dicate that tho contract for feeding
rhould be let on competitive bids nnd
the matter was referred to the county
attorney for his opinion.
John T Howie) of Bprlng Olnn wns
present nnd asked for an ndjustment
In regurd to the county road going
through his land and also to a ditch
destro)ed In making the road. Tho
mater wns referred to the, county sur
matter was referred to the county sur
next meeting
Application of Blevo Dlumentl for n
wholesale ll'iuor license ut Hlnck
Hawk was laid over for Investigation
by Commissioner Sharp Application
for renewal of u Ihiuor license by
Frank Dollnsky at Kenllworth was
grunted. Same by Ike Olailer fur re
newal of twu'lluuor llcensis nt Sun
njslile. granted on thn rround that
he mnkn proper uppllcutlou
The Judgment, In favor of N. H.
Nellson ugnlust Carbon county was
brought up for discussion, Mr. Nell
son being present, tho Judgment and
Interest to data aimiuntlru' to 119,
260 61. The treasurer repotted f 18,
220 61 on hand and Nellsou was given
US, 220 80. leaving u balance of II,
036 71 on the Judgment
Chrk wus Instructed to send out
stntements to different counties In
debted to Carbon county for grating
permits.
Commissioner Hamilton wns named
us n delegate to attend u meeting ut
Suit Iuko CM) )esterda) for tho or
ganization or the Utah Chumber or
Commerce
M II. l,euto wus appointed eon
stolili of Helper precinct to fill the
vucimc) cuused li the removul from
the precinct of ISIiner llroeker, for
mer constable
Adjournment wus taken until the
IStn of this month
Fill M Willi 'IHHOAT CITl
Sl'ICIDP IS 'I UK HKI.IHF
Samuel Helkkula, n until, e of Fin
land, wus found Sunda) near Kenll
worth with his throat out. It Is pre
sumed he committed solilde A razor
was found close l llelkknlu had
been 111 for some time He had no
relatives ut Kenllvvorth, where he had
been working ut odd Jobs From pa
lters found on his body he had a bro
ther nt Dlamondvllle, W)u Thu
count) attoruo) und officers ut Ken
llworth nrter viewing the bod) cxtme
to the conclusion that he committed
suicide Ills remains were burled ut
the Pi Ice cemeter)
KMOOr 1111,1, OPPOSI'.I)
IIV SKCHHTAItV lfcXK
WVSIIINQTON, 5J C. Jun 8
Heoritury I.ane has submitted to the
senate public lands committee nn ud
verst report on Senator Smoot's bill
to grant n million aerca or land to
Utah to reeompenso the state for
I suppressing Indian outbreaks The
secretary contends that grants of
' piblle lands for purposes stated b)
the bill ure not In aoeord with good
policy, as the public lands should be
held for uotual Metiers and for the
conservation of power nnd reservoir1
sites, oil, coal and phosphutes for
general use
MYTON TO FACE
MURDIMflGE
haiku: or oi.imtauv man-
KhU'CIITKIl IS KINOHKO.
Dlrtrlet Attorney I,eitllicrMKd lllrs
An Information Charging SeeHind
DegTrv or Crime, Ignorln I'lndlngs
of the Junllev U 11. Mnrtlnenu, Jr.,
t the l'n llinliinr) Hearing.
Though the Justice court nt Salt
t-nko City bound Major II P M)ton
over to the district court on n charge
of voluntar) manslaughter, for the
killing of Hoy Norton, the district nt
torne) K O I.entherwood, has filed
nn Information In tho district court
barging Major My ton with murder
In tho second degree He wilt go to
trial on this offense This offenne Is
l.nllable nnd Mnjor M)ton Is still out
c f i iiMod) nn the IhiiiiIs he furnished
nft.r having been bound over on n
i huge of voluntar) manslaughter
Lciitheruiiod explains that he Is not
bound b) the action or thn Justice
i jurt necessarily nnd enn rile nn In
formation ehnrglng nn) degree of
rime he ma) think fit ns long ns
that degree Is Included within tho
crime on which the neeused tins had
his prelimlnnr) . hearing "On the
face of the evidence adduced nt thn
preliminary hearing." hh)s leather
wood 'the rlme committed by Ma
jor M)ton nppenrs to me to be second
degree murder"
The i otniflnlnt Issued b) the count)
ntt iruev ngnlnst Major M)ton chnrg
ed murder In the first degree nnd he
wns given n preliminary hearing nn
this charge Thn Justice of tho peace,
I It Martlnrnti, Jr , considered that
the evidence showed voluntary man
slaughter nnd ordered the defendant
bound over on that charge. The Jus
tice ordered that the county attorney
Issue a complaint charging man
slaughter, and that thn defendant bo
taken Into court on this new com
plaint. Thn district attorney objected
on the ground that tho raso could not
be tried on n note complaint Issued by
the county attorney without n new
preliminary hearing nnd ho was sus
tained by the court.
Tho Justice Indorsed the first de
cree murder complaint, stntlng that
the defendant had received n pre
liminary hearing on that charge and
had been bound over on tho lesser de
gree of voluntary manslaughter, Ma
jor M)tun, who was several )cnrs ago
Indian agout for tho Utes nt White
llo-ks ngenry on tho former Ulntnh
reservation, has many friends nt
Price nnd elsewhere who are watch
ing his case with much Interest They
will not believe him guilty of murder
In tho second or uny other degree un
til the courts nnd Jury have so said
MAY SHIP W PRODUCT
Deal Made to Finance the Pnlomn
Mining Company.
T.irough the taking over of n hun
dred thousand shurrs of treasury
stock by M. P llruffet urn Salt Uike
Clt) nnd Denver ussovlates, for 112,
600, the Puloma mining company was
Monday placed In good financial con
dition und ull Its cbllgulloua Were
Mken earn of. Tho deal wan trade
ufter llruffet hud made u careful ex
amination of tho proper!) with his
engineer
Samples taken by A. T Hurtou,
who was retalmd by llruffet to In
spect the strike recently made on tho
Palomn property, busted In the Star
district of Heaver county, wero re
ceived from the nssa)er Monday, Tho
shipping oro rnn 162 48 to the ton,
with the values In copper sliver und
lead A sample taken ueross tho fuce
of the limestone hanging wall near
the bottom of the shaft for u width
of six feet and four Inches ran 111 06
to the ton, with the values In topper,
lead und sliver
The sample taken In the bottom of
the shaft across it distance of two
und one-half feet returned 121.78 to
thn ton, with the values In copper,
lend nnd silver. This was a sample
taken of the monzonlte und Zlon of
ficials nre of the opinion that the en
tire bottom of the shaft will puy to
ship The values ure apparently
growing larger us greater depth Is
attained In the shaft
Thn mnln shaft which Is un Incline,
Is being sunk under contract to thn
five hundred foot point It Is now
down a distance of about four hun
dred feel. Considerable discussion has
nrlsen In mining circles regarding the
future of the proper!) since tho dis
cover) was made that the copper Is
wittered through the mnnronlto,
which Also carries a heavy percentage
or lead und silver values Conserva
tive engineer are of the opinion that
tho monzonlte footwall U the lode
proper and that the main shaft Is Just
reaching the point where u large ore
body of commercial grade should be
encountered The shaft Is being sunk
on the contact between Hie lime
stone and the monzonlte with the
limestone ns tho hanging wull nnd
thu monzonlte us the footwall
The town board of llliiwatha met
Januar) 10th, with the following of
fleers for the ensuing two jenrs U
Fantsohl, president! Clonrge I). Ha)
mond. T. W. Lewis, Gun Opodurt nnd
Dr. J. 13. Dowd, trustees'. Kdwlft K.
Ilurke clerk, C J. Schu'tz, treasurer,
and D D Houtz, attorne)
ANNOUNCE PLANS
TO OPENJP MINE
Ni:W CONCKHN TO HTAHT Ol'KK- jH
A1IONN IN THIS COUNTY. H
Crjutnl Cont Contiiniiy Complete Ar- H
rnugeiiients For Work Near Helper H
Dcelnn.il to Ik) One or the Clrrat- LAfl
est Fields In the Hlnle Will llev
glu Glxrntlon In ICarly Spring.
OODKN. Jnn 9 Plans for the H
early development of what Is doctored H
to be one of tho greatest eonl fields or H
the stntn were announced here today H
when officers of thn Costal Coal H
oompnny completed final arrange- H
ments for starting Improvement work H
as soon ns weather will permit In the H
spring Tho field to be developed H
Includes four hundred nnd forty ncre H
of eonl land In the Castle Onto district H
and the tract Is situated between the H
Cnst Onto nnd Spring Cnn)on prop H
rrtles. nhoul two miles from Helper. H
Aerordlng to the officers of the H
compnn). most of whom nre Ogden H
nnd Morgan men. arrangements have H
been completed for disposing of ft H
hundred nnd flft) thousand dollnrs H
worth nr bonds to ICnslern capitalists, H
this mono to be expended In (level- H
oping tho property It Is planned to H
complete thn mining equipment In H
seven months nnd put coal on the H
mnrket next rail It wns announced H
todn) that W M Hostpah of Suit 1
Irftke Clt) nnd other engineers had H
Just completed n new survey of the H
patented claims purchased from thn H
government four )cnrs ago nt n cost H
of nbout slxt) thousand dollars. H
Tho officers of tho company nro H
W I Norton, Ogden, President; C. It. H
Ousting, Ogden, vice president, Joseph 1
Williams, Ogden, second vice pros!- B
dent, C M Croft, Morgan, secretary;
Frank Filigree. Coalville, treasurer. 1
These with O S llelner nnd Oeorge H
Tnggart of Morgan and II P. Crltch- H
low nnd Dcvld Tracy of Ogden com- 1
prise tho directorate, Messrs. Nor-
ton, Tracy, Crltchlow nnd Gosling H
were thn original locators of tho coal
property four )eara ago. They paid H
tho government about sixty thousand H
dollars in cash for tho tract. Tho
average prlecp&ld won a hundred nnd H
fifty dollars nn ncre, nnd It Is ettl- H
mated that the property contains M
from twenty to forty million tons of H
It Is estimated that virtually the H
entire hundred nnd fifty thousand gH
dollar to be raised by bonding will bo H
expended In tho development of the
property One of the principal lm- H
provements will be nn electric tram
2.C9 miles In length and the longest
tram or Its kind In the state. The H
equipment throughout will be the
most modern apparatus known to
coal mining. The coal I easy of nc-
cess, necordlng to the officer of the
company, every pound of which will
be transported down hill to n branch
linn or the Denver and Hlo Grande
"We have been working constantly H
on this proposition for tho past four H
)enrs nnd tho time now seems nt hand 1
when wo will have this eonl on the
market," sn)s Norton "Kver thing H
Is arranged to start vvork on the B
equipment curly next spring. There
seems to bo no reason wh) we cannot H
get thn coal on tho market next fall, H
Tho itiallt) of tho coal, which we- H
consider to lm the best grade In Utalii 1
should find It n ready market." .jrf -
TlllltD ANNUAIj IIKCKITIO.V '", H
or Piticirs sohosih ciamiii- H
The third annual reception of thn
Snrosis Literary club wns held nt the H
home of Mrs. Thomas Pouts on Sat-
urduy afternoon and wus easily the
most suocessful or any or the open H
house entertainments )et given by H
Hint orgnnlzatlon The excellent lit-
entry nnd mmlcnl program, produced H
b) the respective members nnd their H
friends, was especially fine, ns nlso H
tho light refreshments, whloh was In- H
deed nn Innovation, since the regulul H
meetings of tho club hnve no such B
diversion. All the club members were IBpJ
present und the guests inaluded Mes- HBpJ
chimes G K. Nelms, S A Hnlllnger, HBpJ
I' K. Chamberlain, C II Stevenson, BjjhB
J II Huberts. J M Whltmore. J. A". J
Crockett. It 11 Walters. D 1). Lewis,
J Hex Miller. U A Jones. Olive Mil-, M
ler, Pnttee, Hums, Jessie Sanford, nnd
the Misses Williams, Strlnghnm, New1- J
huuse, Sutton and Peterson. The fol-
lowing program wus most creditably J
BVJ
Cull to order by tho chairman. B
Paper b) the president. HBpJ
ltoll end nnsunred by original HBIJ
J
l'lnuo Selection Mrs C. It, Steven- HBVJ
son HBVJ
Vocal Selection Mesdumoa Mid-
dletnn, Thomas and Green.
Heudlng Miss Peterson VSpJ
Violin Suleetlon Mrs. I A. Jones HBpJ
Song Mrs. J. H Mlddleton.
Piano Selection Mrs. K. F. Cham- HBpJ
berlnln pBpJ
Song Miss New house. HBVJ
Flnalcv Mr TluimasKcjuls.
Mr und Mrs Warren Peacock en--
tertalned u few friends last Haturduj
evevilng ut u "DulohV lupah. Tli H
evening wus mrjflliilciiBantly speiit, H
Those attending Mre Judge nnd Mrs) gH
P K Woods, Mjund Mrs. W. IS. An- ' M
derson, Mrs. Alberta .'Sorensen, Mrt" H
and Mrs, Joe jtenoVrLoln, lonard of H
Huntington. Lultr-tiiid Ii, rxgnard, H
Mildred Hamilton, Huiolcfr lleonarcir B
Albert Horsloj Holly McDonald und H
Llo)d Woods BH
.1 M
