OFFICIAL PAPER OF CITY AND COUNTY
Pioneer Business Man Honored.
The Cresco Commercial Club tender
ed a banquet at "The Cresco" Thurs
day evening of last week in honor of
P. P. O'Malley, who recently retired
from an active business career in Cres
co of nearly half a century. The gath
ering was the largest the Club had had
for nearly two years, every member
feeling deeply sensible of the appropri
ateness of signifying their apprecia
tion and regard for one who fjpr so
-many years had been one of its most
reliable business men, and, as Dr. Kes
sel, the toastmaster, aptly remarked,
"a man who never needed to add
"square dealer" to his. name in his
business announcements, for that fact
was universally recognized all over this
territory."
The banquet, a five-course affair, was
prepared by Mr. Freeburn, and its
serving was in charge of James Gra
ham as head waiter, assisted by seve
ral capable young ladies. The ban
quet, both in viands and serving, was
fully up to the standard of banquets
served in larger cities on pretentious
occasions.
Following the banquet the gathering
was called to order by J. J. Sobolik,
president of the Club, who introduced
as toastmaster Dr. Kessel who pre
sided in his usual happy manner, pay
ing a beautiful tribute to the personal
and business career of the guest of the
evening.
L. P. Barth gave a very interesting
history of Mr. O'Malley's business ca
reer in Cresco, commencing with the
firm of Geo. W. Piatt & Co. of which
O'Malley was a member, which com
menced business in 1866 in a frame
building, on the site of the present
O'Malley block, the material for the
building and the stock of goods having
been hauled from Conover. He also
spoke of Mr. O'Malley's work in build
ing up the creamery interests of the
county, and touched upon some per
sonal recollections of Mr. O'Malley's
kindness which time had not dimmed
or obliterated.
Dr. Connolly's address dealt chiefly
with the place in the business world oc
cupied by the retail dealer.
S. A. Sonverse was calledr upon to
but was detained at home by illness.
Mr. Converse responded very accept
ably with some personal experiences
during the pioneer days at New Oregon
and Cresco in its infancy.
All $30 00 Cloaks must go at $15.00.
AH $27.50 Cloaks must go at $13.75.
All $25.00 Cloaks must go at $12.50.
Cresco
Others were called upon for im
promptu remarks. D. A. Lyons furn
ished a hearty laugh by his story of
the sign "Piatt & O'Malley" which he
hastily read as "Pat O'Malley," on his
first visit to Cresco.
T. J. Lomas gave an interesting ac
count of his first visit to Cresco, when
he and his brother Henry chanced to
overhear complimentary remarks of the
new and thriving town of Cresco. The
point made that a good word for Cresco
spoken then brought investors to Cres
co, is just as true now as then.
John Farnsworth gave an indication
of the troubles of Mr. O'Malley and
the other pioneer business men of the
town in financing their business so as
to accommodate their customers and at
the same time maintain their existence
by relating an incident of the applica
tion made by a Cresco man to the old
firm of Kimball & Farnsworth for a
loan of $35.00 which he understood was
to be paid into the bank by a Riceville
man $35.00 was a big amount those
days, when money was so scarce.
Mayor Barker made a neat little
talk, relating his first meeting as a boy
with Mr. O'Malley, and referring to
the floral decorations on the table, com
mended the giving of flowers and com
pliments to the living instead of wait
ing till our friends are gone and scat
tering flowers upon their graves and
speaking words of eulogy to the living.
Dr. Kessel called upon Mr. O'Malley
who returned his thanks for the testi
monial given him, and stated that al
though he had ceased from active busi
ness, hew 11 still retain a lively interest
in Cresco and its Commercial Club and
will be found working for and with
them in the future as in the past.
The gathering was a generous and
sincere testimonial to Mr. O'Malley's
worth as a citizen, business man and
as an example which the young busi
ness men should emulate if they would
secure and retain a hold upon the af
fections of the community such as
has Mr. O'Malley.
Grace Episcopal Church.
Services Sunday, January 16th, at
10:45 a. m. and 7:30 p. m., Kenneth D.
Martin officiating. The public cordially
EpsifW
Far Sale! -ici
Pure bred Chester White Boars—good
length and heavy bone. 6tf
H. J. WEBBER,
three miies Southeast of Cresco, la.
A Great Big 50 per cent. Discount on Ladies' Cloaks for
next week. Think what that means.
-Sv.
VOL. LVII. NO. 21 CRESCO, HOWARD COUNTY, IOWA, FRIDAY. JANUARY 14, 1916
A Golden Wedding Anniversary.
On January 9th, 1866, Mr. Thomas
Walsh and Miss Mary Curran were
united in marriage at Whitewater,
Wisconsin, and on January 9th, 1916,
the relatives gathered at their home to
celebrate their Golden Wedding.
A bountiful dinner was served and
Mr. and Mrs. Walsh were presented
with a purse of gold to show the love
and appreciation of their children and
relatives.
Those who were present are Rev. T.
J. Murtagh and the children of Mr. and
Mrs. Walsh: Mr. and Mrs. Fleming,
Mr. and Mrs. Bigley, Mr. and Mrs. D.
J. Ferrie, Nora and Ida, who with the
many grandchildren helped make the
day a memorable one. Two others of
the family, Mrs. E. J. Young, of Min
neapolis, and John, of Chicago, were
unable to attend.
I. 0. 0. F.
The subordinate lodge, I. O. O. F. on
Monday installed the following officers,
W. H. Miller, D. D. G. M., acting as
installing officer.
N. G.-W. H. Tillson.
V. G.—Max Thuerk.
Secy. —George Story.
Treas.—H. W. Young.
W.—Elmer James.
Con.—L. P. Barth.
R. S. N. G.-O. W. Clark.
L. S. N. G.-Fred Mitchell.
R, S. V. G.-E. J. Taft.
L. S. V. G.—H. E. Morgan.
I. G.—A. B. Converse.
O. G.—L. E. Emmons.
Chap. W. R. Mitchell.
Has Faith in Cresco Property.
Curtis Miller has closed the deal for
the purchase of another Cresco business
property. This time the D. Amundson
building on Elm street, occupied by
Clark Bros., at a consideration of $7800.
Mr. Miller is a firm believer in Cresco's
future and prefers to invest his money
here rather than in Canada or Western
land. Had others been of like mind,
thousands of dollars made in this vicin
ity would have brought as great re
sults and would moreover have remain
ed to help build up the town and farms
In this vicinity.
Fine 120 acres, good soil, level land.
Up-to-date buildings, located 14 miles
from Cresco, 6} miles to Fort Atkinson.
Good references required. Address,
Luers Land Co. Cresco, Iowa. 21-lt
All $22.50 Cloaks must go at $11.25
All $20.00 Cloaks must go at $10.00
All $15.00 Cloaks must go at $ 7.50
a1' "t .» wV'
PLUCK, Pito TRESS, PERSEVERANCE AND PATRIOTISM IN POLITICS
Election of Directors Commercial Club.
The regular annual meeting of the
Cresco Commercial Club will be held
in the M. W. A. hall over Zender's
next Wednesday evening, Jan. 19th at
8 o'clock.
Fifteen directors will be elected at
this meeting, important matters will
come up for action by the members.
The nominating committee appointed
by President Sobobik, as provided in
our by-laws, submit the following list
of nominations as directors for the en
suing year.
J. J. Sobolik, W. H. Tillson, J. C.
Webster, J. F. Zbornik, F. A. Huber,
A. L. Peterson, H. D» Petersen, A. B.
Converse, C. W. Reed, E. P. Farns
worth, O, J. McHugh, H. G. Addie,
O. W. Clark, F. B. Lomas, J. W. Mott.
The by-laws provide that any twelve
members may by written statement
signed by them and filed with the sec
retary nominate one or more directors
to be voted on at this meeting.
All voting shall be by ballot.
Come out to this meeting and help to
make this the banner year in the work
of the club for a greater and better
Cresco.
W. H. TILLSON, Secy.
Rev. Kirwin at Decorah.
Rev. Will Kirwin is at Decorah this
week assisting Rev. Lackland in holding
evangelistic services in the M. E.
Church. Of Rev. Kerwin's work the
Decorah Public Opihion writes as fol
lows:
"Rev. Kerwin of Cresco, is proving
himself to be a master of evangelistic
method. He is not sensational but his
earnestness appeals instantly to his
hearers. Frills have little place in his
speaking but with a sympathetic broad
insight into human nature he soon has
his auditors feeling that he is their
friend."
Congregational Church.
The pulpit will be supplied again next
Sunday by Rev. G. H. Hancock, of
Hart, Mich. All who are interested in
this church are invited to come and
fcear him.
The •™1"1 bniim— meating of the
church and society will bis held nut
Tuesday evening, Jan. 18, at 8 o'clock.
Reports, election of officers and other
business, will come before this meeting,
and all members and friends are urged
to be present.
THE BIG CLOTHING SALE
AT THE NICHOLS CLOTHING COMPANY'S BIG STORE
still continues to please many people as well as to save them many dollars on their purchases. We are more than pleased at the results of our
efforts so far, but we are going to make a Special Effort to make next week the biggest week of all. Just reaathe pnees on the different
articles listed below and see what it will mean to you in real Dollars and Cents to visit our store next week and partake of the many bargains
to be found there.
Extra Big Special on Boys' Knee Pant Suits for Wednesday, January 19th
We have too many Boys' Suits on hand and must make room for our Spring Stock. So, regardless of cost, our Boys* Suite must go.
Every mother and father should see that their boys are supplied with new suits at these prices, as you have never bought Boys buits as cheap
in Cresco before. No blue serge suits included at these prices.
Every Boy's $6.50 Knee Pant Suit will be sold at $4.25. Every Boy's $5.00 Knee Pant Suit will be sold at $3.00. Every Boy's $4.00
Knee Pant Suit will be sold at $2.50.
Don't forget the Big Discount on Ladies', Misses and Children's Shoes for next week. Everybody can have New Shoes at the prices we
are malting. Buy your Overshoes and Rubbers next week and save a big 10 per cent, discount.
THE NICHOLS CLOTHING COMPANY
CRESCO, IOWA
2""
•A",
Men's $25.00 Suits and Overcoats $16.50.
Men's $22.50 Suits and Overcoats $14.50.
Dealer
Sudden Death of Andrew Stinger.
Almost without warning, Andrew
Stinger passed away Wednesday after
noon at his home on the Vernon road.
Although he has been troubled for
some time with hardening of the arter
ies, he has been working constantly at
his trade, and on the day of his death
was doing some carpenter work in the
restauiant conducted by his son
Orlando. He quit work about four
o'clock and went home, sat down and
listened to the reading, by his wife, of
a letter just received from his son
Arthur, when he was taken ill and re
marked. "I feel all in." and passed
away immediately.
The funeral will be held Saturday at
tha German Lutheran Church at 1:30.
Worst Storm of the Winter.
This locality was favored with an old
fashioned blizzard Wednesday, with
various thermometers registering from
28 to 34 below zero on Thursday morn
ing. But one of the Cresco carriers,
Joe Patterson, made his entire route.
W. G. Fish started with his auto Wed
nesday morning but was snowed in at
H. A. Moldenhauer's, remained in the
country all night and got to the post
office just before noon Thursday. The
Saratoga mail carrier was compelled to
abandon his auto about four miles west
of Cresco and toted his mail to Sara
toga on a handsled on Thursday morn
ing, making no attempt to make a trip
to Cresco that day. All mail trains are
from one to three hours late.
Dad is no Scholar.
A certain chief justice run his buggy
so that a small sapling came between
the wheel and the box and he called to
a farmer to bring' his ax and cut it
down. "You d'm fool," said the farm
er, "back up your horse."
It was said when Dad was a boy that
the first wagon passing through North
ern New York was followed 20 miles by
doctors and lawyers, to see if the hind
wheels would overtake the front ones.
P. S. Dad would write a few short
articles on "Why the South Side is the
Farmers' Side," if the P. D. would
stand for it, «Uv„-
Hides Waited.
Hides wanted of all kinds and will
pay the highest market price. Phone
Davis Corners 16.
19tf JOHN KOLIHA.
Look, Look, Look at these Prices on Men's Suits and
Overcoats for Next Week, and then stop and think
of the dollars you will save.
mmmfa
BY MEAD PUBLISHING COMPANY
The groom wore the conventional
black and was unattenden.
Mr. Smith is a prosperous young
farmer of Glenburn, S. D., where he
has a large circle of friends, and is a
bright young man well worthy the bride
he has wone.
••A
Married in Montana.
On January 5th,
Mrs. Smith is a former Chesco girl,
having spent the greater part of her
life here and with her grandmother,
Mrs. E. S. Millington, just east of'
town.
Mr. and Mrs. Smith, after a short
honeymoon spent in Montana, will be
at home to their friends at Glenburn,
S. D., after Jan. 15. That their mar
ried life may be filled with sunshine
and roses is the wish of their friends.
New Passenger Rates Effective Saturday
The new passenger tariffs which pro
vide for an increase from 2 to 2.4 cents
a mile on interstate rates have been re*
ceived at Cresco. The tariffs are to
become effective on next Saturday.
The new tariffs are only effective on in
terstate rates and the present rate of
2 cents per mile in Iowa is still effec
tive.
Under the new tariffs the fare to
Minneapolis, now $3.10, will be $3.70
to Chicago, now L$6.25, $7.37 to Le
Roy, now 50c, 58c to Austin, now
$1.05, $1.22.
The passenger rates between any two
points in Iowa will remain on the basis
of 2 cents a mile.
There is only one way by which the
traveler can avoid the new increased
rates. It is to take a train to the first
station over the state boundary, and
there purchase another ticket for the
a a
EvufeHcal Ckarch Notes.
There ^ill
be
Men's $20.00 Suits and Overcoats $12.50
Men's $15.00 Suits and Overcoats $10.00
& s.
l:
$1.00 PER YEAF
1916,
at Glasgow,
Mont., occurred the marriage of Misa
Goldie E. Millington, only daughter of
Mrs. Estella Millington and Mr.
Laniski L. Smith, son of Mr. and Mrs.
T. L. Smith, all of Glenburn, N. D.
The bride wore a beautiful dress of
light blue crepe du chien trimmed in
gold colored lace and was attended by
Mesdames F. Roberts and M. White.
preaching tervice in
W'fcfiJgew.y fVangetka!
CKwefc,
Sunday, Jan. 16th,' at 11 a. m., also In
the Florenceville Evangelical Church at
7:30 p. m. Everybody invited to at
tend these services.
W. A. Scholer, Pastor.
.-i:
A
I
"r
I
-J
