Tke Echo Has a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
LeivenwortK. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 2
CITY WATER SYSTEM
REPAIRED IN 10 DAYS
In the Meantime There Will Be an Ade
quate Supply from Other Sources
to Relieve the Situation
When it comes to an alcoholic prop
osition Leavenworth is very, very dry,
and three or four days this week on
water the town was also very, very shy.
About ten days ago there were slight
signs of a slackness in the city's water
pressure. Last Saturday Mayor Day
suggested to Water Commissioner Tol
bert that an investigation of the intake
might point a way to relief. Two men
were sent up foui miles west of town to
to take a look at the intake. They
looked and forthwith returned with the
information that the intake had intaxen
an excessive amount of mush ice and
was gradually refusing to take in water.
The next day Mr. Tolbert boarded a
pair of skees and made the trip himself.
The mush ice was found to be mushier
than ever, the intake was choked up,
and the main conveying pipe, where it
is elevated on trestles for about a thou
sand feet, was frozen in places.
Sunday afternoon the city system
absolutely failed to produce and all that
lection of town north of the railroad,
where two-thirds of the population are
domiciled, was waterless, and driven
to the snowdrifts for necessary moisture.
The pipes on the south side still yield
ed water, but the supply came from
another source and was strictly limited.
This situation prevailed until yesterday
morning. In the meantime Tolbert,
with several assistants, was endeavoring
to remedy the trouble, but without re
sults. At the council meeting it was
decided, after due and ponderous de
liberation, that the only solution of the
problem lay in purchasing new piping
to substitute for that which is now filled
with ice. City Clerk Brown was in
itracted to purchase 1030 feet of pipe
at 36 cents per foot, and 200 feet of
high-pressure pipe at 44 cents per foot.
What isn't needed for the present
emergency will be held in reserve for
a future day of trouble. Three hun
dred feet of pipe were found to be
on hand and this was hauled out Wed
nesday morning with a crew of men to
get into immediate action on the pro
cess of substitutioc.
Last year when the system broke
down the Lamb-Davis Lumber Co.
came to the rescue and for the
consideration of J225 per month fur
nished sufficient water to get along on
until the municipal plant was again
running. It was hoped that this ser
vice could be repeated, but Mr. W. W.
Wilder, representing the company, ex
plained to the council Tuesday night
that this was impossible, owing to the
fact that the millpond, from which the
supply had been pumped, was drained
last fall and now contained only four
(eet of snow. As a last resort Mayor
Day employed Taylor Yocum, Lee
Howerton and Charley Fox, each with
■ team, to procure spring water and
deliver a limited supply each day to
northside residents. This arrangement
was started yesterday morning, but was
halted within an hour when water was
discovered in the hydrants. Here's
where we pin the medal on Sam Daly.
Mr. Daly is in the employ of the
Tumwater Light & Water Co. as an all
round mechanical expert. He harbored
an idea that there was some fault with
the Joint water system of the Great
Northern railway and the Lamb-Davis
Co., which for some time has been run
ning a short supply, and that the fault
might be remedied. He took a trip
up the line and confirmed his idea.
With Roundhouse Foreman Bob Smith
and a roundhouse machinist, Mr. Daly
borrowed a locomotive from the rail
road officials and rode up the canyon
Wednesday evening to within one hun
dred yards of the Great Northern power
house and turned a valve wide open in
the water pipe. The valve had been
only one-fourth open. This explains
the presence of water in the northside
hydrants yesterday morning. The sup
Zhe Xeavenwoctb £cbo
ply may not be adequate for every pur
pose, but by restricting the use to ouly
what is absolutely needed, it will be
enough to tide the town over for the
next ten days when it is believed the
town system will be repaired. No for
mal understanding between the city
officials and those in control of this
supply has yet been reached, but no
doubt this will be done in a day or two.
The 1200 feet of new pipe is expect
ed to reach here Monday and will be
hauled at once where it is needed.
As many men will be employed on the
job as can be used effectively and the
work rushed as rapidly as possible.
The cost of this undertaking, includ
ing the price of material, it is estimated
will run between $800 and 81000, and
that is not all. During the summer
something must be done to prevent a
repetition of the trouble or anything
of a similar nature. It is too expen
sive, to say nothing of the inconven
ience, and the risk of fire during a
water famine is too great.
One of the results of the situation
was the loss of a great quantity of baby
fish at the hatchery, their liberation be
ing made imperative on account of a
scarcity of water. Another was the
partial suspension of school work for
the first half of the week.
CONTRACT LEI; WORK BEGUN
ON INVESTMENT COS. BLOCK
Hartman & McKenzie Lowest Bidders-
Began Work Monday Morning and
Will be Rushed to Completion
The contract for the rebuilding of
the Investment & Co's Block, adjoin
ing The Echo building, burned Dec.
26th, was let last Saturday afternoon.
Hartman & McKenzie were awarded
the contract on the lowest bid, $3235,
against L. F. Speidel and Beasley &
Ruth, who also had bids in.
The contractors began work Monday
morning and will rush the work as
much as weather conditions will per
mit. The quarters adjoining The
Echo will,again be occupied by the
postoffice and this room will be fin
ished first.
With this evidence of confidence in
the future on the part of the Leaven
worth Investment Company timerous
souls ought to be impressed and take
heart.
By the first of April some of the
buildings vacated by the saloons will
be occupied. Two or three new busi
ness ventures are under consideration
and before the summer is half over
every vacant building will be occupied.
Score One for the Marine
Corps Humorist
Fearing the government did not pro
vide sufficiently warm clothing for her
favorite grandson serving in the United
States Marine Corps, an elderly lady
brought a fleecy, handworked comforta
ble to the local recruiting station of
ihe sea soldiers and requested Sergeant
George S. Fynmore to forward it to
him.
"Poor Fred may be shaking and
shivering with cold just like the soldiers
in Europe," she told Fynmore, "and
this comfortable will be just the thing.
You'll send it to him, won't you?"
Sergeant Fynmore assured the old
grandmother that it would be a privil
ege and a pleasure to do so. But
when he forwarded the package to Port
au-Prince, Haiti, where the grandson is
now serving, he enclosed a note ex
plaining that the old lady had worked
hard in an endeavor to have the com
fortable finished in time to come as a
Christmas present and that he didn't
have the heart to disillusion her about
the need for such things in Haiti.
"But." he added in the note, just
by way of encouragement, "sometime
when you're serving in Alaska I'll get
her to send you a cake of ice."
The meeting and annual election of
officers of the Gun Club, scheduled for
Wednesday evening, failed to material
ize, and will probably not take place
until next month.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, January 14, 1916
ELECTION Of OFFICERS
BY BAR ASSOCIATION
L J. Nelson Made President—Election
Followed by a Banquet and a
General Good Time
The regular annual meeting of the
Chelan County Bar Association was
held in the banquet room of the Hotel
Elman at Wenatchee, Thursday even
ing, Jan. 6.
After partaking of a bounteous spread
the meeting was called to order by
President Kemp, who then read an
able exposition of the relations of the
lawyer to society.
Mr. Louis J. Crollard read a paper
entitled "The Rights of a Purchaser
Under a Real Estate Contract." When
Mr. Crollard finished the purchaser
didn't have a leg left to stand on.
After these solid papers had been
read the meeting was turned into a
humorous channel. Sam R. Sumner
was introduced by Mr. Kemp as "Mr.
Cloud-on-Title Sumner" and responded
to the toast, "Protecting the Indian."
Mr. Sumner convulsed his hearers with
his response, which was particularly
humorous from the fact that he has
been involved in a great many cases
where the title was clouded thru In
dian claimants.
Mr. Charles R. Connor answered to
the toast, "My Impressions of the
Members of the Chelan County Bar."
He poured a good-humored broadside
into the members who had been the
first to greet him in Chelan county.
Mr. Connor is going to avoid the dark
alleys for some time hereafter.
N. A. Pearson of Leavenworth, re
sponded to the toast, "Conditions at
Leavenworth as Afiected by the Law of
Judicial Notice as Laid down by the
Supreme Court in Ex rel Gottstein."
Mr. Pearson seemed to think a great
hardship would be worked by this law
upon the Wenatchee lawyers, who used
to come to Leavenworth on every con
ceivable matter of business. He told a
few good siories on J. B. Adams and
Col. Fox, who stood for them without
a murmur.
Fred M. Crollard responded to a
toast and Hon. Frank Reeves told an
amusing story of conditions in the early
days of Wenatchee and trial procedure
at that time.
W. 0. Parr responded to the toast,
"The Working Tools of the Lawyer,"
and gave the bar the benefit of his
ripe experience in the choice of books
and other material.
The election of officers for the ensu
ing year resulted in the unanimous
election of L. J. Nelson to the presi
dency, G. G. Hannan as vice-president,
and D. A. Shiner as secretary-treasurer.
Mr. Nelson made a fitting speech
of acceptance in which he thanked the
members for the honor conferred upon
him, after which the meeting adjourned
sine die.
Grant Reynolds Guilty of Assault
After being out 30 minutes the iury
in the case of the State vs. Grant Rey
nolds, in the superior court at Wenat
chee, returned a verdict, Wednesday,
of guilty of assault in the third degree.
Sentence has not yet been passed.
The maximum penalty is a year in jail,
or a fine of $500. or both. Reynolds
shot a man named Ridgely in a free
for-all shooting match at Blewett on
the 20th of last November. Ridgely,
on the same occasion, shot and slightly
wounded a man by the name of Ho
vedsgaard. His trial is now going on
at Wenatchee.
Keep your skin in a healthy condi
tion, free from chaps, roughness, etc.,
by using some appropriate lotion or
cream. Tell us about your skin trou
bles and we will suggsst the best rem
edy for your skin. When we recom
mend it we guarantee it, which means
you can bring it back if it's not satis
factory. That's fair, don't you think
so? Koerner's Drug Store. 2*
Two sawmills at Granite Falls have
resumed operations.
Feed the Feathered Tribe
We know of two women in this town
who have been feeding the birds the
past few weeks. Did you ever think
how hard it is for birds to get enough
to eat to keep them from freezing this
winter? The extraordinary amount of
snow makes it very difficult for the
birds this winter. Spread a few crumbs
on a window sill or a board laid on the
snow, and watch how eagerly they will
pick up every little particle. One
woman feeds over twenty birds every
day and finds pleasure and diversion
n watching them.
WEATHER RECORDS IN
THIS STATE BROKEN
Wind, Snow and Low Temperature Mon
day and Tuesday—24 Below
Zero at Waterville
With the local conditions about nor
mal for this period —about 6 degrees
below zero Monday night and 9 below
Tuesday night —other points in the
state suffered from record-breaking low
temperature, snowfall or high winds.
A blizzard struck Mansfield Sunday
night and continued for three days,
with the wind blowing at times as high
as 75 miles an hour and temperature as
low as IS below. Great Northern train
was buried in a 10-foot drift and all
wires were put out of business. A
rotary left Leavenworth on Monday to
dig the train out.
The official weather man at Ellens
burg reported 20 below. At Chelan a
stiff wind, with snow and 11 below,
made everybody hug the stove. The
lowest temperature figures came from
Waterville, ranging from 24 below at
night to 8 below with the sun shining.
Wenatchee thermometers indicated 8
below, and many water pipes were
frozen.
With zero temperature a blizzard
swept over the flat country around Eph
rata last Monday. The school had to
close, and the mail stage to rural points
was compelled to turn back for shelter.
Two children had their hands and faces
more or less frozen. At Hartline and
Colville the snow was accompanied by
a gale, the rate estimated at from 25
to 40 miles an hour. Snowdrifts at
Hartline were five and six feet deep,
wagon roads were impassable and trains
were stalled for several hours.
All the harbors on the coast and
sound felt the effects of the windstorm,
which caused the highest tide known
for many years, and damaged shipping
to a considerable extent.
Peshastin School House Burns
Peshastin experienced its first fire
Thursday night at about 12 o'clock,
when the school house was completely
destroyed, nothing being left but the
brick walls, which will probably have
to be rebuilt.
The fire was first noticed in the at
tic and on the roof and there seemed
to be no way to extinguish the blaze
as there was neither water nor hose in
in the building. Had there been the
fire could easily have been conquered
by the early arrivals on the scene.
How the fire started is not known.
It may have been caused by defective
wiring or by a crack in the chimney
resulting from the heavy snow and ice
on the roof.
The building was constructed about
five years ago at a cost of $12,000 and
was a credit to the community. It
was insured for about $9000. Ar
rangements have been made to hold
school for the balance of the term in
the old school house across the river
and the M. £. church, which is also
located there.
A divorce suit involving prominent
Leavenworth persons was filed Wednes
day in the superior court. May Bren
der is suing Frederick L. Brender, i
pioneer rancher of the Chumstick can
yon, for an absolute divorce, custody of
the boy, aged two, and asks for $60 a
month alimony and provision for the
keep of the son. —Wenatchee World.
TAKE PRECAUTIONS
FOR FIRE OUTBREAK
An Ounce of Prevention is Worth a
Pound of Cure—Examine the
Chimneys and Pipes
Mr. Householder, here is some grat
uitous advice. The scarcity and un
certainty of water on account of frozen
pipes during the cold weather makes
reliance on that source of protection
none too certain. Take all the pre
cautions possible against an outbreak.
Watch your chimneys —see that there
is no accumulation of soot in them that
might take fire some morning when
you start a big fire to warm the house.
There is more danger on this account
in the early morning. A stove pipe
run thru a wooden partition, or thru the
ceiling and roof is a constant source of
danger, eyeD tho it is surrounded by
one of those thin sheets of iron. It
simply ought not to be permitted in a
house where there are women and
children. Experience has shown that
it is too dangerous to be permitted. It
is a constant menace to the inmates
and surrounding property holders. Do
not rely on it because it has existed for
two or three years and you have never
had a fire. This very fact makes it
even more dangerous.. Rust will de
tract from the protection it was jup
posed to give when it was new.
Mrs. Householder: If any of these
conditions exist about your home call
your husband's attention to it. Insist
that you and the children are entitled
to all the protection from fire that is
possible. Do not rest until things are
made as safe as circumstances will per
mit. It will be too late after you have
had a fire. Do it now.
Never leave clothing or anything in
flammable about the stove. When you
go out be sure that there can be no
outbreak in your absence. Only a
short time ago a man and his wife in
eastern Washington went out one even
ing and left three children locked up
in the house. The house caught fire
and the children were burned up.
Keep this matter of fire in mind and
do not get careless because you never
had a fire. This is the danger time.
It is doubly dangerous because of a
lack of sufficient water. Without an
abundance of water during this cold
weather, and the difficulty of getting to
the fire with the apparatus on account
of the depth of the snow, an ordinary
residence will burn up before the water
can be gotten on it. This has hap
pened here a number of times.
Once more. Put the ounce of pre
vention in force right now.
Yesterday's fire
The fire alarm yesterday afternoon at
4:45 brought the volunteers out on the
jump and within three minutes the
chemical engine, mounted on a sled,
was on its way to the blaze, a small
dwelling north of the round house. By
the time the crew reached the place a
hose from the roundhouse was throwing
water on the flames, which were soon
extinguished. Everything in the way
of furniture and personal effects were
saved. The house, which was almost
totally destroyed, was owned and occu
pied by Wm. Yake, a G. N. engineer,
whose loss is covered by insurance.
Basket Ball Last Night
The advertisement of a double
header attracted an unusually large
number to the schoolhouse last even
ing, and they were amply rewarded
Both games were fast and aroused the
keenest enthusiasm. The umpire was
from Cashmere and in the contest with
the team from that burg showed, ac
cording to our reporter, an unfair pref
erence for his old home town. The
score was:
Cashmere Athletics, 37.
Leavenworth High, No. 1, 28.
Leavenworth High, No. 2, 22.
Monitor, 8.
Orting has completed a $4000 high
school building.
'T Printing
i wash
ul^.». . i* com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
A Delightful Stag Party
Last Friday evening Mr. O. S. Samp
son observed a custom he inaugu
rated several years ago of entertaining
a number of his gentlemen friends at
his home immediately following the
holiday season. The early part of the
evening was spent in social intercourse,
followed by cards and smoke ad libi
tum. At eleven the party, consisting
of an even dozen, including the host,
sat down to a most delightful repast
and spent two hours at the table enjoy
ing the viands and telling each what he
considered the best story in his reper
toire. Had Mr. Sampson chosen to
do so he might have refreshed his
guests with the cup that cheers, since
the attorney general has decided that
it is no violation for a man to do so at
his home. His health, happiness and
prosperity was pledged, however, in
water.
The wives of the assembled guests
were entertained very handsomely at
the home of Mrs. B. C. Rutherford.
Following were the guests at the
home of Mr. Sampson: G. A. Hamil
ton, Geo. Stirling, R. B. Field, Deed
H. Mayar, F. S. Jacobsen, A. A. Pinch,
B. C. Rutherford, M. A. Marley, E. H.
Fox, Butler Sampson, N. V. Day.
THE 1916 INDUSTRIAL
VIEW IN WASHINGTON
Highway Construction One of the Big
Movements—Mining Boomed by
High Price of Metal
Half of all the shipping from United
States ports on the Pacific coast is done
from Puget Sonnd ports. With the
tremendous increase that is sure to be
gin :hio year and grow every following
year this factor alone will build ud a
mighty city on Puget Sound. The
tremendous advance in the values of
copper, zinc, lead and silver gives an
impulse to mining, lumbering is on
the upward bound with a golden trail
of prosperity behind it.
Public utilities are in better business
condition than they were a year ago,
and a more friendly public sentiment
exists on the part of labor and business
men. This change has not yet reached
officialdom.
The recent order of the Public Utili
ties Commission, placing the proper
ties of the Pacific Power & Light Co.
upon a basis of earning five and six
tenths per cent on invested capital,
allows no room for expansion by invit
ing new capital.
A state so largely under the neces
sity of securing irrigation of its lands on
a large scale is seriously hampered by
the contentions of the department of
the interior in enforcing water laws.
Highway construction on modern
lines continues to be the fixed policy
of state and counties, and as a whole
the commonwealth is making industrial
progress and has turned the tide of
radicalism.
The Puget Sound district, southwest
ern Washington, and the great interior
and valley regions planted to fruit,
have a substantial future before them,
and will undergo rapid development.
Some of the brewing plants have
been transformed into dairy and fruit
products factories, and one is to manu
facture near beer. The great Rainier
brewing olant is closed, and the com
pany has built a large brewery in Cali
fornia where it will supply beer to
Oregon and Washington people under
their peculiar laws favoring foreign in
dustry.
The dance given by the members of
the Diz Club, Monday evening at the
Masonic temple, was a very enjoyable
event to the thirty-five couples present.
Mr. and Mrs. Herman Franklin and
children left on No. 43 yesterday for
Everett to visit with Mrs. Franklin's
parents.
Dick Simons returned yesterday from
Chicago whither be went some three
weeks ago on a pleasure jaunt.
Miss Mildred Adams has returned to
her studies in Seattle, after spending
three weeks at home.
