'
OUR MOTT O BOOST AND HELP THE OTHER FELLOW.
THI
A
MME
R
Volume 2
-Educational Department-
Houston, MissJ, Jan. 14, 1916.
Number 34
Ceo Education
County School Board. County
Superintendent, President
Bent 1. P W Shell. Secy, Houston
s. a JOi)'iw)i: sr. Houston Ul nouston scnoo tin d mi
3 .1 M Haley, OkoJona.
4. J L Smith, McCondy
" 5, W B Lewis, Woodland
Board of Examiners
George I) Riley, County
tendent, Houston
Mrs Theresa Gavin, Okolona
Miss Fairy Goza, Houston
County Teacher Association
Geo D Riley, President, Houston
J B Burns, Vice-President, Thorn
Miss Mary Ausley, Secretary
Houston, RT D 1.
TEACHERS ASSOCIATION
The Chickasaw County Teachers
Association met in the auditorium
in (J nn
O
Saturday, Dec, 18th. Music was
furnished by. Misses Walterene
Beasley, Mae Lorene Ford and
Lucile Collins.
At the request of the president
Superin-1 Mr VVeaver, Mr L B Reid discussed
the question of School Management
Mr Reid suggested the idea that one
of the strongest factors of the teach
er making for' good discipline is
hroad and accurate scholarship.
Mr J B Burns discussed the
qtj' stion of grading in the Runl
schools and rullprl aiionn,,., f,, ,.,..
trns department will endeavor to of the difficulties of this question
furnish, from time to lime, items of for the average rural ,.hn,i
teachers, patrons and' Miss Alice Campbell also respond
hope to make it inst.ru- ed to this nnestion nu linvo a
ctive as w. II as interesting, and statement of the standards to be re-
ueieoy sojkh uie assistance ol every cognized in
teactier m the county.
Houston's Opportunity to Hear
MisJjHadley and Young
interest to
pupils. W
a correct system of
grading.
RememlH r the Teachers Meeting ! 0fficers for the association was
at Houston, Saturday, January 22 elected as follows: President, Geo.
Your attendance may be an index I D' Riley; Vice-President. J B Burns;
to the latere-1 you feel in the woik iSe"etay- MfoMary Ausley
Come prepared to discuss some of ! lhe fuh turday in each
the subjects, imonth was fe!ec,ed aa the rellar
i w.m, ui iiitcuuy iui uiR session 01
Chickasaw county hasthe largest, 1915 and 1916.
school enrolment, and the greatest i Tne "'ting for the FOURTH
per centage attendance in its history 'SATURDAY in January will be
vVe believe that this is a fine testi- i neid Houston and the following
moay to increased interest end a!proram be re"deipd:
better school spirit. j ! Arrangements for the Annual
w r. . Cou,lty Field Day. General Discus-
..w ..v., itjtiiiing a uiaiwiliuil
v
r .'t H t r ' J
, i ?iv H , ,
s j ,5
k?f n - '
K , v " ;
v ,V t W
' d r 1
One of the most notable musical events of the season
will be the appearance of Misses 1
" '"VJ MUM JJI1
zabeth Young, both of Boston an 1 also. of the music facul
ty of Blue Mountain C.illee, on January 21st at the Hteh
o
ial ageiicy, but three of our teachers '2'
rlidays! Wnat could we do if'we : n'otY Discussnrled
School Auditorium at 7:30
Both these talented young w.mien are graduates of
the New England Conservatory of Music, and both have
had experience in teaching and concert work. They are
artists of recognized ability.
Miss Hadley is possessed of rich, sympathetic so
prano voice of rare duality and v. ale ram'e Her
will be extensive iiKduumg grand opera and modern songs.
Miss Hadley s piquant
DEM0MSTRAT0R MITCHELL
.... ORGANIZES CORN CLUB
At the Bethe! School last Friday, R S Mitchell organ
ized three schools, Pearsall, Midway and Bethel into an
enthusiastic corn club. Miss Mary Ausley is the principal
at Bethel, Prof Tom L Blizzard of Pearsall and Prnf Wnnl-
d ridge of Mid wav. All t h
- - - - j vr 1 1., Lit v u ui iniuvi aim
Mr Mitchell outlined the plans for the future work in rais
ing fine corn . The boys and girls took special interest in
the meeting and it ishought that sometime soon they will
organize a poultry club so every girl can be induced in the
movement for better living at borne.This is Mr Mitchell's
first club in the county and he will later organize others
in every town and community. It is a great and good
movement and we are happy to see the hoys and girls take
an interest in the club work. What this movement will
accomplish after becoming organized all over the county
is impossible to estimate. That it will spell PROGRESS in
in capital letters is a certainty. That it will put money
in pockets and educate young people to LIVE right is also
a resultant possibility. All over the state similar clubs
are in force and being organized and at last Old Miss i
coming into her own. Hooray for the corn, poultry and
tomato clubs, for they are marching on to victory.
Miss Mary Ausley is the teacher who won a prize with
her pupils at Bethel when they gave a real GROWN IN
MISSISSIPPI dinner last year. We hope such dinners
will happen again and all the clubs strive to win over the
others.
Tne Hummer hrn Is the good word to Demonstrator
Mitchell for his immediate activity in this organization
and also in his readings tn HF1.P thp far mora in 1.11,
rendering o thf h'fhtpr tliindc io .1 u:, ,:.. . i: ., ...
dAiidhrf.,1 aQ h u.,,;,, 5 ;; , J ,J ua u"u m,'u- ,eu,UiSIU8- u,vers"yin8. harvesting, land pre-
Is it time to work for Consol-
Jiscussnf
M Hufli
vertised? and W M Hull an.
P..,,....!!,!.,,,.,,, on,, Ti-at.cnntatinn ' 6. MettloUS aim AK1S .or
1 juiiouuuuu yji 0111 i--" 1 ' "
ure two different things, but
Mr K S Mitchell,
i hariie of tiie Farm
Secur-
h tt ing Rural School Libraries. J J
Wpaucr I. M .bines. Misses Km ma
ate Hiihty 6.od ... their places. : Qh&mp md Evylyn Uavis
Watch this department for some- 4 How to Teach the Relation
itiing on this subject. between Fractions, Decimals and
Local Agent in Percentage. L B i eid, Mr, wary
n m ,. ,,...fi,, Peden and W M Cox.
Uemoii.,tiation , , . 4uen(laIlce of the
Vork in Chickasaw comity, will . Teachers uduii the C)unty Associa-
f.pend Saturdays in the county tiou and Summer Normals influence
;.iiperinteadei,!'s oflice, aiternaiing the superintendent in the fixing of
between Houston and Okulona, : Salaries? (jeneral Discussion.
MISS LENA RAY FOSTER DIES
Miss Lena Ray Foster, daughter of Mrs. W. E. Parker,
d'.ed at the home of her grandfather, Mr. I. U. Paulk, last
londay night at six o'clock. She was 20 years old and a
v ;ry, very lovable ciarajter. She joins:! the Methodist
C lurch at an early aje aa J live! a Christian life in strict
: 'card a nee w ith the Master's admonition to his people.
I-, i?nnur riTuinctpH thft funeral services first at the
i ethodist Church then at 2:30 at the cemetery, where she
as laid to rest by her father We, with a host of friends,
c fer our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family.
Miss Young is not only a car hle performer on the
but a talented one a well. He '.uVlllfi show? wnrrrfh nf
ji - -" O - ui null j i
feeling and fineness of expression .Besides being a piano
so,f'f Miss Young is ,;,u t ! .'Vsi'.'il or-omnanis,
Houston is to coiii .iiua5'T-.,;--' - -
musical way, in the appearanc Jf fl.se two brilliant per
formers. The music lovers are looking hirward witn an
anticipation of much pleasure to their appearance.
We not only feel confident that die whole public will
be highly entertained but that the rrusic students will be
greatly benefited by the coming of t hese two artists .for
this reason, special seats will be reserved for all must;
students of the town with no extra charges.
Tickets can be purchased at both drug stores
25 and 50 cents.
paration and Inoculation.
County Road Workers
Chickasaw
The Supervisors have chosen the foiowing'en i
4 -P E Griffin. Beat 5-C n Nelson.
The in. n selected we are sure will tarrasacarry out
every part of their work that will be an honor to them and
a great progress to the county. They are reliable men
and all of them understand road making. The outgoing
Supervisors have left the roads in better shape than any
Board in the history of the county and it was caused by
the new system of FIXING a bad place at the right TIME.
It was an especially noticed fact that autos could go over
Prices j every road easily up to Christmas Day a record unknown
for several years. Congratulations to both bupervisors
and road workers.We Believe IN Your Ability.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
H. Ashkeneze is going out
ij of business. Everything
jmust be sold in 30 days.
Watch this paper for the date
ind bargains. Look for our cir
mlars. Don't miss it.
Special Notice.
H. ASHKENAZE
DRY GOODS. HOULKA, MISS.
CIRCUIT CLERK HILLER GILF0Y
DIES THURSDAY MORNING
After a Ions' illness of pneumonia, the great and good
man Hiller Gilfoy, died at his homo Thursday morning at
7:30 o'clock. Mr. Gilfoy was 3 years old, having been
born at Woodland in 1881 He was the only son of Mr and
Mrs J R Gilfoy. A few years ago h i was happily marnea
to Miss Corinza Davis, a most estimable and refined young
ladv onlv one child blessed this home of ideal happiness.
ITA- rii)t ;nur Mr Hiifnv had fone thru a siege of
few short weeks ago everybody thought he was well on the
road to complete recovery. He was gaining flesh ana was
nhln to dfit about better and better every day. All the
doctors thought he would soon be able to take up his re
gular duties in the office of Circuit Clerk, the position ne
worked so hard and faithful to get by the popular vote of
the people. During the campaign last summer he made
one of the most remarkable races for a sick man ever re
corded in Chickasaw history. Over five or six strong op
ponent he won the honor in the second primary. It looks
hard to think that after fighting month after month for his
health Rnd then winning a county honor, and then be
stricken right in the beginning'oY Ir.is duty. But the Mas
ter who knoweth best said con and the Christian spirit
went happily into the Great P.eyi.nd.
If he had a real enemy we don't know it, for he lived
the gentle-man the clean man the good man the faith
ful man. A devoted husband and father he always loved
to make his home the ideal as laid down in the great Book
of Books. Friends and relatives by the hundreds mourn
his death and the shock will be felt tor many, many days.
His body was interred in the V?6odland Cemetery Friday
Jan. 14th at 1:30 o'clock.
The Hummer, with sincere thought, sympathizes with
the sorrowing family, for they have lost a father and hus
band who loved them and we have lost a friend
PLEASE FORGIVE US
We want to humbly beg the pardon of W. A. Dendy
for the error last week in leaving his name out of the front
page list of newly installed officers. With exceeding hum
bleness we ask forgiveness. Honest, it was NOT intention-,
al for we are happy to say that Tax Assessor Dendy is our
good friend and the error has hurt us more than any mis
take we ever made. Mr Dendy, again we ask your for
giveness and make this public confession of our error.
'IE!'.'
lEftR
GREETINGS
TO
Olid
FRIENDS
Al
PATRONS
We heartily appreciate the liberal patronage you
have extended us during the past year, and with the
earnest desire ever i mind to be more deserving of
your future favors, we extend to you and yours our
most sincere wishes for a Prosperous New Year and
continued good health.
W. A. BASKIN
JT. M. Blade, Salesman
HOULKA, MISSISSIPPI
ill.
' V..I..J1. v , i J . , ... . ...
T 1
