Oflf] 11 fl. wiiingfiiMiß ByigaK™
J nF/®MMWaWBwSv vT
I i£7\\ I |'Tt w Y |
iEVKNTH YEAR, NO. 30.
MOKE CHOICE OBE.
jHuhus. Kline, who u> about as famil
with the various mining properties
over the north part of the
as any man in the country, was
H town Saturday with a large chunk
H sulphide ore that made those at all
Hleresicil :u mines and mining set up
take notice, it was as fine looking
Hiutiu rating ore as lias been seen in
His place for a lo>ig time. The big
Br in.eu >va.- thoroughly mineralized,
Hid us weight indicated the presence
■ mineral iu good quantities. The
Hrlklng of litis ore so soon after the
He strike on the ivanhoe, and In the
Him- locality, by-ihe-way, creates
Hole of a sensation than if it were a
Hero isolated case of a new find.
I The cutting of tills ledge is an illus-
Batton of the irony of fate, the uuccr-
Hiuty that is always connected with
Hining operations. Mr Klino is doing
He assessment work for residents of
Banvlllo, West Virginia. Those people
Bcqutred what Is known as the Chus.
Bernard group. The claims are located
Hi the summit of Palmer mountain,
Bentiguous to and in the same mineral
lone with the Copper World. Copper
World extension, .ludge group, Plnna
he, Ivanhoe and other claims with less
Heal reputation. The claims were orlg-
Haliy located many years ago by Chas.
■erhard, now a prosperous resident of
Honasket and proprietor of the Hotel
Be Bonaparte. If any man over earned
i reward for earnest perseverance
ind gruelling hard work, he was this
ame Charlie Gerhard, but it never
;ame to him through mining. For
ears he pul up with all kinds of hard
hips and privation s working those
ilalms, most of the time handling the
taiumer and drill all by his lonesome,
lust so long as he could scrape togeth
er enough to live on Mr- Gerhard
worked his head off. When broke he
would go on the outside, rustle for
work, find a Job, and living with pain
ful frugality save up a stake. As soon
»s ho had accumulated enough to in
sure a grub supply for a few months
back he would trail to his claims and
go to digging again. The claims are
pockmarked with prospect holes.
There Is a shaft down to considerable
depth, and a tunnel in some distance.
Mr. Gerhard got ore that carried high
values, hut was never able to pick up
the ledge In place. At, last becoming
discouraged, and getting along In
years, too, with rather a gloomy out
look for the future, Mr. Gerhard sold
his interests, realizing only some
II ,500, which did not reimburse him
for the money spent to say nothing of
his time- Me quit mining as a snaii;
and delusion and embarked in busi
ness, making a success of his under
taking.
Now conies an important strike on
the very same ground that Mr. Gerhard
climbed over so long a time. When
Mr. Kline worked his way through
deep snow to the claims, preparatory
to doing the annual assessment, he
found that in order to be at all com
fortable it was necessary to get in
out of the weather. Usually annual
representation work is done by goug
ing out open cuts, as that is the eas
iest way of getting over the amount of
work required by law. In this instance
an open cut would have had to com
mence at the bottom of a heavy bank
of snow, so Mr. Kline decided to do the
work in the old tunnel. Hence the
strike was very much in the nature of
au aclcdent. The very first round of
holes in the old tunnel opened up a
two foot vein of solid sulphide ore,
with several Inches of talc on each
side of the ledge Just think of It. The
old owner quit with what looks like a
fortune within reach of a few more
hour’s work. That thing has happened
in mining districts before, but is none
the less remarkable on that account.
Mr. Kline will finish the assessment
by following the ledge he has discov
ered. The sample of ore that he had
In the office has been forwarded to
the owners o flhe claim at Danville.
W. Va., and it 1s not at all Improbable
that, upon receiving Mr. Kline’s report
ami the specimen, the West Virginia
people will decide upon doing extens
ive development. The strike would Jus
tify that course.
«•>-
ONE OF GREAT FAITH.
The announcement of the recent dis
covery of ore in the workings of the
old Ivanhoc mine have been followed
by a great many requests for copies
of the Gazette. Among the correspond
ents is F. T. Western, of Spokane,
who invested money In the mine a
quarter of a century ago. Mr- West
erns faith has beep enduring, tor in
the face of years luring which the
property remained idle, and the natu
ral discouragement of hopes deferred,
he lias held on to the belief that even
tually the Ivauhoe would prove to he
a winner, it is a pleasure to know
that his long wait has every prospect
of being rewarded by tile realization
of liis hopes , and we trust that he(
will live long to enjoy a handsome
competency from tiie output of the old
mine. In his leter to the Gazette Mr.
Western says:
“I have been waiting over twenty
five years for this news, so you can
easily figure that it looks good to me.
1 still retain sufficient interest in the
mine to fix me tolerably well for some
time to come. I never will forget what
poor Alt'. Cowherd said to me. He
said: Fred, the time will come when
the old Ivanhoe will pull this country
out of the hole-' It then sounded pro
phetic to me, and you see it has come
to pass, for this strike on the Ivanhoe
will certainly start things in Okanogan
county. 1 bought a half interest in the
Ivanhoe in 1888, and have stood by it
ever since, with the firmest faith that
sometime it would make a mine.”
oboville winners.
Last Friday ever lug the Oroville
high school basket, ball team trimmed
the Republic high school team, at the
gym of the local high school, to the
tune of 36 to 16, before a large and
interested crowd of spectators. The
game was never at any time close
enough to be exciting. The visitors
were outplayed at every point, with the
exception of shooting baskets on fouls.
At that stunt Republic had tar the best
of the locals, iu the eagerness of play
that at times bordered on Grecio-
Romau wrestling, fouls were numer
ous and a majority of Republic’s points
were accumulated from that source,
while Oroville continually failed to ne
gotiate baskets on fouls. The locals
were able to keep the ball out of Re
public territory, and the vLltoro had
few chances to try lor the net- The
game was very interesting, notwith
standing the one sided score. With
more practice the Republic team will
make formidable opponents, and the
result may be reversed when Oroville
goes to Republic for tiie return game
a few weeks hence.
SCHOOL ENTERTAINMENT.
A large and delighted audience as
sembled at the Orpheum Wednesday
evening on the occasion of the enter
tainment given by ».he ympils of the
public school. It was a most unfavor
able evening for people to get out,
otherwise the hall would have been
crowded to the limit. In the past the
school has given a number of
performances, but in no instance has
any of them equaled the one of Wed
nesday night. The young people were
perfectly at home on the stage, had
their several parts perfectly, and did
better titan many of the professional
traveling companies. The comedy skits
kept the audience in a roar, and the
musical numbers were well rendered.
Every one of the young ladies and gen
tlemen taking part deserves special
mention. At this late day in the week
it is impossible to give the entertain
ment that full mention that it de
serves, and the Gazette can only con
gratulate those takir.g part on the ex
cellency of the performance.
WORK RENEWED,
Word was received from W. B. Ches
ney this week that work had com
menced again at tb i Ivanhoe mine
after a suspension of two weks on ac
count of the holidays. An engineer was
at the mine several days conferring
with Mr. McChesney upon plans for the
treatment plant that the company con
templates building and equipping in
the spring. This plant will be on the
shore of Palmer lake, directly below
the tunnel site at a distance of only a
few hundred yards. It is the purpose of
Manager McChesney to continue work
steadily, blocking c jt and removing
ore- Mr. McChesney will give out more
information henceforth than he cared
to do so long as his enterprise was in
the nature of an experiment, and the
Gazette will be able to mention pro
gress made at the property in the way
of ore extraction, underground devel
opment and construction, from time to
time. While this publicity is not sought
by the company, it is felt that any suc
cess that may be met with at the Ivan
hoe will benefit the country and en
courage others to inaugurate work on
properties In the district.
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON, JANUARY 14, 1916.
LJfFAIR TREATMENT.
For some reason that cannot be ex
plained mining men of Spokane have
lost no opportunity in the past to
tiirow cold water on mining operations
in Okanogan county, or to put in a lick
that would do the country the most
harm. They have looked upon mining
iu this part of the slate as a joke, or at
least have on all occasions made it ap
pear as a joke. At the same time they
boost for the mining interests just
across the line iu British Columbia,
overlooking the fact that only an im
aginary line divides the territory on
the boundary, and that it is preposter
ous that an imaginary line should di
vide the mineral bearing zone. This
altitude has been so general and mark
ed as to become extremely offensive,
and has been carried at times to the
verge of insult when the subject has
been mentioned iu that city in the
presence of residents of the Okanogan
country. These knockers have not tak
en the trouble to investigate, and have
accepted without question the state
menis of any Irresponsible persons.
These self constituted critics have
never taken into consideration that
mining has never been conducted in
this vicinity under expert direction, or
in tiie manner that has made paying
mines in other districts. Ignorant of
conditions they have depreciated all
mining operations, making no distinc
tion between honest effort and wild cat
promoting, and whenever and where
ver possible have black-eyed this coun
try This action has created a strong
feeling of resentment in the Okanogan,
and lias done much to eliminate friend
ship for Spokane that should exist in
a large territory neutrally tributary
to that city.
Tltis unfriendliness to Okanogan
mining is not confined to individual
residents of Spokane, but is displayed
by the dally papers of that city. At the
time of the marvelous strike recently
made in the Ivanhoe mine, a fairly
I'uK account whs sent In to the Spokes
man-Review, and that account was
blue penciled to a few inconspicuous
lines. It is perfectly safe to say If such
an ore body had been cut in the Coeur
d’Alenes, Republic, or any other dis
trict within touch of Spokane, the
S.-K., would have devoted columns
to the remarkable discovery, for there
lias been no strike equal to it, In ex
tent of ore deposit and values carried,
in the northwest for years.
As an indication of the feeling that
prevails in this county over the atti
tude of tiie residents of Spokane we
publish the following extract from a
letter received at this office during the
past week:
"Will you kindly mail to me at the
Pacific hotel in Spokane, two copies of
the Gazette giving an account of the
great strike at the Ivanhoe mine. Such
news sounds good to an old timer who
has held down the country for thirty
years, hoping against hope that some
day our predictions would come true.
It begins to look now as if Okanogan
may soon take its place as a mining
country 1 can now go to Spokane and
when registering at a hotel not feel
ashamed to say that 1 am from Oka
nogan. I shall take pleasure in rubbing
knockers, who never say a good word
for Okanogan, or our section of the
state.”
ANOTHER RIG STRIKE.
Following the recent big strike of
ore in the ivanhoe mine, news has been
received that Mr. John Killian has Just
opened a large deposit, of schist that
averages SIB.OO iu gold to the ton
the whole width of the shaft at the
bottom. The assays were made by the
Washington Slate College at Pullman,
Washington, and the samples were
taken by one of the most conservative
mining men in Oro-llle. This belt of
schist is over 50 feet wide and It will
probably develope that the entire mass
Is tine ore This property is two miles
south of town and near Mr. Killian’s
residence. Until the visit of Prof. F.
M. Handy of Pullman college last sum
mer no one had ever thought of look
ing for gold in the schists and slates
in this section. Mr. Handy’s visit to
this section was one of the results of
the organization of the Northwest
Mining Association at Orovllle.
-<•»-
EPISCOPAL nirßl’H
Services will bo held next Sunday
morning. Services and sermon at 11
A. M Sunday school at 12. Evening
services and sermon, 7:30 P. M.
REV. G. W. SEVERANCE,
Vlcar^
VALUABLE PUBLICITY-
The j?ortland Oregonian got out an
Immense new year edition, it was pro
fusely and beautifully illustrated, and
contained articles covering almost the
entire northwest. The Oregonian is
one of the most influential daily pa
pers in the United States, and enjoys
a very large circulation. Statements
made by or through the Oregonian
carry weight and conviction with its
readers. Probably in no publication on
the coast could greater or more valu
able publicity be secured for any sec
tion desiring or requiring public no
tice, than through the Oregonian and
that is more especially the case iu an
edition of the character of this new
year’s publication, which goes Into
thousands of homes besides those of
the regular subscribers.
The West Okanogan Valley irriga
tion district and the town of Orovllle
and Tonasket received valuable adver
tising through the medium of the Ore
gonian special edition. W. F. Graham,
immigration agent of the Great Nor
thern railway, who has done and is
doing, yoemun service in his efforts
to attract settlers to the rare oppor
tunities to be met with in northern
Okanogan county under the irrigation
system, furnished the article that ap
peared; in the Oregonian, and it is so
well worth repeating that It Is here
given In Its entirety. We can only add
that the enterprise that Mr Graham
raentlohs is so far along in the way of
construction that It will require only
u few weeks In the spring to finish it,
and v/ater will he turned on In ample
time for irrigation next summer. The
proposition Is one that every seeaer
after a location should Investigate af
ter reading what the press has to say
about It:
“Utilization of the waters of the
Simllkamoen river, a tributary of
the Okanogan, which iu turn is an im
portant tributary of the Columbia
river, v 111 reclaim ten thousand acres
of leiiT.e land in Northern Okanogan
county, Wash. Construction work
is far advanced, being about 75 per
cent completed, with the assurance of
completion of the entire system be
fore the 1916 irrigation season begins.
This project, the largest of its kind
in Washington or Oregon, under active
construction at the present time, is
the West Okanogan Valley Irrigation
district project, the headquarters of
which are at the town of Orovllle in
Northern Okanogan county. The lands
embraced in the project form a narrow
strip on either side of the Okanogan
river and the Great Northern rail
way’s Wenatchee branch road, begin
ning at the international boundary
line and extending south to below the
town of Tonasket, about 20 miles.
Wiiter is derived by gravity from
tlie Similkameea "iver, sometimes call
ed the “Smiling Simllkamecn" from
its picturesqueness, flowing as it does
through the beautiful British Columbia
valley of that name. The intake with
massive steel gates, is near the town
of Nighthawk, about 11 miles above
Oroville. The entire system embraces
69 miles of canal, flume, pipe and
syphon construction- There are 39
miles of open canal, 24 miles of flume
and six miles of pipe and syphons.
Passengers on passing trains can see
almost the entire system, as the canal
and flumes winds its way around the
hillsides of the Simllkameen and the
Okanogan valleys. The main flume is
of substantial wooden construction,
eight feet wide, and a team and wagon
could be driven through it for miles.
McDougall & Co., whose western head
quarters are in Portland, are the con
tractors. and D. C. Henney, Irrigation
engineer of Portland, is constructing
engineer of the project.
The contract was awarded on July
7th last an dprellminary work only was
done during July and August- In Sep
tember the contractors got started in
earnest and since then have had about
500 men and 200 teams and a steam
shovel actively engaged. Six million
feet of lumber, comprising over 200
car loads, was resulred, and this had
to be cut and shipped In.
it is a genuine co-operative develop
ment project, there being no largo
land ownership interested. Local resi
dents and owners of land under the
proposed project, formed themselves
into an Irrigation district under the
state law. Officers were chosen and
surveys made, and after engineers had
reported favorably on the project an
election was held and a bond issue of
$600,000 was voted, which covers the
contract price and engineering and
other expenses. The contractors ar
ranged to take the bonds in payment
for the building of the complete sys
tem. It Is the only large irrigation pro
ject in the state or the northwest for
that matter, that has been successfully
financed and undertaken under the
district irrigation laws.
“Surplus holdings of local laud own
ers have been pledged to the district
officers with a 40-acre Individual unit
maximum at prices ranging from S4O
to about SBS an acre on easy terms, so
that speculation will ho eliminated and
an inducement offered to actual new
settlors. The water right price is $63
an acre, payable in installments dur
ing the last halt of a 20-year period.
No part of the principal is required to
be paid for the first ten years.
The altitude of the lands is between
900 and 1000 feet, being anly about 300
feet higher than the famous We
natchee valley. A rich volcanic ash
soil, air drainage, Immunity from
frost and a long and warm growing
season make the project lands highly
adaptable to the growing of apples,
and fruits of ail kinds At the same
time, the prices for land and water are
so moderate us to be attractive from
an alfalfa, swine, dairying and diver
sified farming standpoint as well.
Transportation and shipping facilities
are unexcelled. Four railroad stations
serve the land, some one of which are
not over a three mile haul from any
part of the lands.
Oroville and Tonasket are two of the
livliest towns along the Okanogan
branch, with exceptionally bright
prospects for future growth. Oroville
has the lest hotel in North Central
Washington, a three-story, modern
brick, costing $75,000.
FIERCE FRIGIDITY.
The banana belt got it good and hard
this week, and it' any bananas happen
ed to be out of doors escaped, the fact
has not yet been discovered. An unu
sual winter was nu de more unusual
by a very unusually penetrating cold
wave that swept down from the north
pole Sunday niglrt, ami kept it up for
about 32 hours. Sun lay was about as
pleasant a winter day as one could
desire to experience. Snow fell, it is
true, but the temperature was mild,
and th snow, such as it was, was a
pleasure to be out in. The change came
suddenly about 9 of the clock Sunday
evening. At first a gentle zephyr from
the north gave the falling snow a
southward slant, bu 1 in a few minutes
the gentle zephyr had become a howl
ing blizzard with a rapidly falling tem
perature. A north wind in this valley
is anything but conducive to conuort
at any season of the year, but when
it is howling out o (the Arctic circle
in the middle of winter the discom
forture is beyond description- The wind
fairly shrieked and rocked the habita
tions of man all night, whipping the
snow' through the ait and piling it up
in heavy drills. Wind has the unpleas
ant habit of banging on when it once
starts in this valley, and the storm
started Sunday night did not blow it
self out until early Tuesday morning.
Monday was one of the most unendur
able days experienc'd here for years.
The mercury moved down to zero and
below and the wind eever let up for a
minute. Only when it was absolutely
necessary did people stick their noses
out of doors. The cold was insistent,
keen and bitter. Water pipes froze al
most everywhere, and even steam heat
ed buildings could not be kept com
fortable. Blinding snow whirled and
eddied through the valley, sifting into
every crack, crevice and cranny. Few
children were enabled to attend school
and they only the oldest. The railroad
especially suffered- The Spokane train
did get through both ways with a great
deal of difficulty, but no train got
through Monday on the Wenatchee
branch. This chilly experience made
mcterological history that will stand
for comparisons in future years when
the old inhabitant is expaciating upon
weather conditions.
SEIU ASSOCIATION.
The farmers of th>s part of the val
ley arc in earnest in the movement to
organize a Seed Grower's association.
Some of the best known and most ener
getic land owners in this vicinity have
expressed their intentions to try the
experiment, and are interesting their
neighbors in the preposition. It is re
alized that if commercial seed growing
can be made a success here it will
prove one of the most profitable indus
tries farmers can engage in, meaning
large and quick returns. Another meet
ing of those interested in the subject
is to be held in the town hall Saturday
afternoon. January 21, and all land
owners are invited to be present.
ACCIDENTALLY SHOT.
Tuesday evening while Arthur
Brady was In the saloon at Brldesvllle
B C„ the bar tender, whose name
could not be learned removed all the
cartridges from a revolver, as he sup
posed, and was giving an Illustration
as how Jessie James, and other wes
tern hard nuts, manipulated a gun.
With his linger In the guard he gave
the pistol a whirl, pointing It at Bra
dy, and the gun that he did not know
was loaded went off, the ball striking
Brady in the right breast, and passing
through the right lung lodged In the
right arm. Brady was brought down
to St. Joseph’s hospital Wednesday
evening, where Dr. Lewis extracted
the bullet. The wounded man has very
little chance for recovery. Brady re
cently sold his farm near Molson. He
is well known here. He has been drink
ing hard recently, or for a long time
for that matter and as he Is 57 years
of age, It will be little short of a mira
cle If he pulls through. Both men were
under the Influence of liquor Is Is al
leged when the shooting occurred, but
there Is no reason to believe that It
was anything more than an accident-
W ILL HE REPEAT I
Pat Kearney was In town last week
on his way to his home near Tonasket
from the Chesaw neighborhood, where
he has been working on a promising
claim for some time. Mr, Kearney had
a handsome specimen of copper ore
that he left on exhibit at the First Nat
ional bank. Mr. Kearney thinks that he
has a world beater, and he sure has
it there is any quantity of ore such as
the sample he brought in. Mining is
not a new experiment for Pat Kear
ney. He worked one of the first ship
ping and paying mlies in this north
country, the Old Dominion, located
near Colville. That was away back in
the early ’Bos. The mine was discover
ed by Al- Benolst, who was working
with Will and Pat Kearney. The rich
est ore laid In kidneys, and the boys
were loaded with money from ore ship
ments at a time when the balance of
the population of Spokane Falla were
fingering empty pockets. It would be
somewhat strange it Mr. Kearney
would again make a stake out of min
ing after being out of the game for
so long a time. We knew him when he
was on the top wave of prosperity be
fore, and here’s wishing that he may
strike another such comber.
CIVIC LEAGUE LUNCHEON.
The ladies of the Civic League will
serve luncheon in the library building
tomorrow between the hours of 12 and
2 o’clock, to which everybody is In
vited. It is not specifically a merchant’s
lunch, but for everybody, merchants,
working men, ladies, children or any
one who wishes to partake- And it will
be well worth partaking, as the ladles’
have won a reputation for serving de
licious public feeds. This one will be
equal in every respect to those that
the ladies have provided In the past.
The proceeds are to be applied to the
library fund, and for that reason, If
tor no other, every person In town who
can possibly be present should patron
ize the luncheon tomorrow. Just In
order to whet your appetite the menu
Is here given:
Vegetable Soup
Meat Loaf with tomato sauce
Mashed Potatoes with gravy
Corn Pudding
Pickles
( OUX’IL PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the meeting of the town
council of Oroville, Washington, Jan
uary 10, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councllmeu
Frits, Bartell and Peterson.
Minutes of the previous meeting read
and approved as read. The ordinance
committee were Instructed to try and
have a meeting with the town attorney
and have the liquor ordinance read tor
final passage at next meeting.
At this time Mayor Samson appoint
ed B. J- Wilson as marshal and street
commissioner and asked the council to
approve the appointment. The appoint
ment was approved bv the council. Mo
tion was made by Councilman Bartell,
seconded by Councilman Frlls that the
town treasurer be authorized and in
structed to issue to holders of yearly
dray licenses a temporary license to
be used in case of emergency, the price
to be 15 cents per day or 75c per week.
Motion carried.
On motion council adjourned.
E. R, HOOSE, Clerk.
11.60 PER TEAR
