NA D
OCRAT
iaaro3CoiC3E
3CE1
ONE paperfl
10 Pages To-Day
In the HOME It worth a dozen In
tha byway, and Juat ra mam bar THI
DEMOCRAT la tha noma pa par of
Marcer County, a a a
Kubluhd Mm V 1191
Volume 20, Number 40
Carlin & Carlin, Publishers
Celina, Ohio, January 14, 1916
THE
CELI
EM
mer
Of David Beery, East of Town,
Is Again Recalled
lly Amul of Two lornier (Vlimt
;lr, SoiimiI Ion Willi I. Illli' Meat
Stir Community
to
at
Considerable excitement was caus
ed here the (Irttt of th week, when
InforniHllou leaked out that Alma
Sweltster and Marie Howard-Lutz
daughters of M. L. Merlon, formerly
owner of the Heoond-hunil store of
Hob Landfalr's on South Main street,
were being held In Jail here UR ac
complices In the murder of David
Heery, the old man, whone mutilat
ed body was found on Wednesday
night, April 3, 1912. In the little
Western Ohio waiting station at the
NIckerHon club house, a couple of
mileR euHt of thin City.
The girls were arreHted hint Sat
urday night by olDcers Duncan and
MelHtan on a charge of loitering.
It was rumored that they were en
ticed here so they could be gotten
hold of and this Btory gained firmer
foundation Monday morning when
Mayor Scranton continued their castas
after arraignment, and they were
lodged In the county Jail where they
are still being held.
The girls claim they were brought
to this city from Portland, Ind., by
Willis Shirk and Clyde Burrls, both
of this city. The fact that these fel
lows were not arrested and held, as
well a sthe girls, lent more color to
the fact that they were being held,
as rumored, in connection with the
murder of Beery.
Marshal Duncan and Sheriff Pum
phrey spent yesterday at Portland
Reeking more Information on the al
leged story, but undoubtedly were
not very successful, as no arrests
resulted from the visit, although the
olllcers visited the eMrlca home.
The report that the mother of the
girls had died In a Ft. Wayne hospi
tal and in ,a death-bed statement
mde certain accusations, porved
be flse, s she is alive and well
Portland.
The girls seem to be of a rather
hardened sort and have told some
mixed up tales. Yesterday they re-
Quested to see Mayor Scranton and
wantd him to have them released
lie said last night that he would re
lease them from custody to-day un
less Prisecutor Myers filed other
charges on which to hold them.
Where the alleged story originated
which caused the detention of the
two girls we have been unable
solve, and all the information given
out by the officers is that there is
nothing ot the rumors afloat and the
story as gahered, which Is as follows
Is purely rot:
The rumor is that a quarrel be
tween the girls caused one of them
to let out information to the effect
that hey had een inimate biwth Berry
while living here and had found out
that he always carried considerable
money on his person. Ths informa.
tion was imparted to the husband
of one of the girls, the couple at
that time were living together as
common law .partners. The trio
agreed that the girls would entice
Beery to the rear of the .second-hand
store building on South Main street
and there secure his money. The
old man didn't play into' their hands
as readily as expected and they at
tempted to rob him. In the scuffle,
which to kplace in the darkened re
cesses of the rear part of the burld
ing Beery was struck a couple of
hard blows by the man, with a blunt
Instrument which he had picked up
during the melee.
When the trio realized they had
killed the old man they placed the
body in an old wagon and took it to
the waiting station where it was
found by members of tne Nickerson
club.
The story is certainly a good one
but the deuce of the matter is to
prove any of it.
That's what is confronting Prose
cutor Myers and his assistants.
REPEATING A MISTAKE
It take n very limit Hint) for some peo
to learn from pkpm iciue. Alnut tor
Iv year niin, I In' .stale of Tuxiia nave
three iiillllun in n nf limit in u Kngllsn
ri.rioiiili..ii In exchange lor it Htale capi
lol building. Tim building him liat-n
leiioiating In value ever since. The
IiiihI, however, him I.. , ii in, reusing in
Vllllll', Originally It Was estimated lit fill
ccius mi in in. 1 .11 mi year h'K I linn iiiui'
Ililnl of II was solil lor t,7.'tl'i.tmii, 'l'lii
other I wii-II.ii.Ih Ih Mill Imlil by llm Cor
poration. W'ltS II I'lt'lir CUM! of Ht'HlllK
HlM llll-tlirlMllt Of ill people, for H lllt'M
of pottage, anil a very poor quality oi
pottage al Hint.
Ilul now itif news mines tlmt this
Miiini' hlnli' of Texas, In utter disn-gaid
of this experience, In iihotit to Hell h loth
lion uhil h half acres of school hinds.
Onro again private Individual are to it'
Klvrii thH chance to grow rich by ap
propi latiug values created tiy tin people
of Texas. (Hun ii Knl ii oiiorlnnlt Ira for
InlKir. Unit plight Ih lescl vril for Ihe poo-
;ilo are to I'liHH iintltir control of specu
uloiM. And once again u possible source
of relief lor the lini'liipliycd Is to In- clos
ed. What In the miiilcr with Tcxus?
RENTZSCH
Elected President Pro Tem.
of Council
ROAD BILL PROPOSED
Initial Mci'llnu, Tuesday lr,hl-
Ouly Mailers if .Minor (iiihii
lame I'liino I'p
Tlu ii ii 1 1 m ii 1 1 ii l clubs of Ohio through
tlir state A utoinolilln Asam-lnllon, will
lr to luivi' ii enuipllsnry road malntou
tr.v (o have h compulsory rond nialnlcn
The 1'in.a hill which went Inlo elicit In
September, provides that counties mu'
establish roud patrol systems, hut docs
not innke It obligatory, Sandusky coun
ty Ih thii only county in the state to es
tablish voluntary such a Htciu. There
the county engineer has provided itn au
to truck ami trailer, linn furnished a
lli'll' for it Mini keeps the out lit Kolnx
nil the time during Hiiltalile weather.
Certain section of highway are taken
at a time unci whenever a had place Ih
found It Ih repaired at once, niatcrialH
mi dtoolH of nil kind Im-hik rl lit at hand.
The undcriakiuu la hiKhly HUrreKMlul.
NOTABLE CHURCH MEETING
The first regular meting of the
newly cli'ded couni'll wits ! l I lust
liaytoti, O., .Iiinuiiiy 12. Luyiiun of
1 i t -i t :i 1 1 1 ChiiicheH throughout weHtern
1 ili'Kilay Itiglit Willi all liieiubers Ohio wll Iconvene In iaton, IVhrii.try !i
piosont and Mayor Sri anion presld- to iIIscuhh nil phuxcM of church workuml
lllg. the ii billon of Hie clnirch to coninuinity
TollowInK a few bilf remarks bv i" Idenw.
the now ex0lltlv tlio council elected A H.-or ..f -.m-II.IMh and rellKiouH
cxiieltH Will llddreHH the pllhllc IlleetlllK.H
uentzscii as presiueiu pro tem. t m,.,,,,,, ii liulldiiiK. lurluuiuii William
Mr. Keilt.sch of the building Colli- l-Imlur Oell. the llrxt white man to ex-
mlttce, of the old council reported i''"'e "l" myst'-riouM chitiiHe Wall and
!... i. i. i r. . ii -, i i w 1 1 o iiiho iieam inu tn.-iiiiriion oi uihciom-
iiiiii low iiiiiuoiu oir un v.u. uau . . ., , . t
i n if iim true IUc exlHtence of a MiioiiOMedlv
West Pnyrtte street jrweler, and one oi h""-"-niiy "PP"eu wnn tueir agree- fuhuloin. race of pymnkH in the hc.it of
the most successful l.uniticMi women In 1 11 ' city to be releaseil
thiH part of the tate, died at her home from their contract, and council act-
ou Went Warren street, alxmt eleven ,l 'ccm'ilinolv
Several oonimunicatlons of minor
importance were taken up and re
ferred to the proper committees, and
MRS. H. I. SCIIUNCK
. DIES LAST NIGHT
Mrs. II. I. Scliuiick, the well known
o'clock last night, following few days
illness of pneumonia.
Funeral services will proliably lie held
bunilay.
HIGH SP
OTS
Afr.rit. W. K. lunlity. train lfjil r. d
iiciiliuiuil Ht-rietary of (he laitviiit-fi'M Min-
ihary Movfincnt mid author, will b out
Of I lit H.HMlkt'l M.
(Mht-r tiotii.h-H will liHiiHl. iiarry V .
Ward, Hca-jal HrrvU't) proftrSMor at Boston
I iiiv! wil , and oih of thi int.Ht widely
konwn nu n In that IL-H1
li. H. KlshT of Nw mk City, han ar
rivt'd in la ton to Ikuii arrunucnifiit
coi)Hi(ltrable time whs fiixnit In talk- for thv ronvVniion wiikh in txp.-ctt-d t
iriK limy it'"" niyna-n un'ini'r inr nm
SEVERAL
Cases on January Common
Pleas Docket Settled
NEPTUNE FARMERS' INSTITUTE
I.nrue 1. 1st of Assignment .Made and
.Miiny Cases I'mlei' Advisement
liy Judge Miller
!ng over the looal sanitary sewer con
tract sit ua t Ion, uetlnlte action on
which may probably be taken at the
next meeting.
The stockholders of the Commer
cial Hank Company lust Monday re
elected the followln directors: C. IJ.
Hierliolzer, J. B. Pulskamp, A. M.
Klley, I-:. J. Hierholzer and J. A.
Koemer. The director! Immediately
re-organized for the ensuing year by
ii'ii'iii'i' and conHidcratioii ol ouestion
I't'ti-rtiUK all lii-itnchn.s ol church work and
liirir application to the prohleuiH of Ih
MlliiKe, rli'. Ktate, nation ami worm.
LuirhiK the courHe ol the convention
nuiiilier of denominational meeiinM will
he held to COUHlder co-operation Willi th
larger la ineii k uiovenielil lino u II evan
Ileal churi-he.1 In western Ohio are uru
eil to provide for representation ul the
ronveiition.
TOWN TOPICS
ST. HENRY
John Kemper who was employed in
the Twentieth Century shops has
purcahsed a location at Russia, 0.,
and moved there.
Clarence Sacher, who has been
employed here for the past five years
but whose mother lives in Celina and
Mrs. Anna Sunderhaus from here
were published Sunday for the first
time as matrimonial candidates)
B. J. Lammers was at Celina, Fri
day on business.
Teacher Louis Huelsman and fam
ily Casella, were the guests of his
brother-in-law Herbert Ronier and
family, Sunday.
Geo. Studer is able to be about
again afte ra siege with the mumps
and grippe.
Herbert Romer has moved Into the
Pulskamp residence, east Main street
lately vacated by John Kemper.
Joe Brinkman, west of town, suff
ered a paraletlc stroke Tuesday but
this writing Js improving.
Will Bhrens was at Celina, Wed
nesday on business,
FROM EX. GOVERNOR COX'S JACK
SON DAY SPEECH AT DAYTON
The Cox iiihnlni. trillion expended
$.1.2fU,k:i3 for new huildinits und land
for our univei-Hitie.'t, normal Rchools, hos
pitals mid correctional institution. Tin
Willis liilinliiUtnillon has not paid hut
one dollar for permanent ininrovcuicntri
n the wuy of lands or liulldiim.s. and yet re-electing the following omcers: Mr. and Mrs. John K. Mendenhall
lis cost to the people for the year President, C. L). Hierholzer: vice are the Droud parents of a baby girl
M-'ti.sxi more than In 914. nroslrlont I Tt Pululiumn- runnier e.,.lo
1 ask any man In Ohio to ra se ti s ' ' " . u iii, uuimuj.
voice now and point to one Hinnie run- A. M. Riley; assistant cashiers, E. J. Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Reinhard, of
nnui Ml I. ui .ne IIIIS UUIIIII1ISII it- I . ,.. , . I ...
ion!" Jiieritotzer. Mt. uueaa, rormeriy well known
Our administration was cussed hut in keenini? with the distinction nnd nii.,,, oe0r,u
never laUKhed nt. It was a trairedy to " J""6 i'i"r, ii.
ertaln Interests in the state hut a Joke honor Of the bank, beine the first nf n Imhv danirhter linrn lust Tups.
Kyi ii . i , , , . . . . ...., 1 .
According to Cam ( ate W i s there "' uiuui iiiianciai insuiuuoil in UaV.
: , e o, s't; o" r ; , trSX Mercer coy- belDS established in Mrs. Maro Johnson, of Rutherford
as Ooveilior Willis he found not only the January 1. 1870. fortV-six years aKO. I Vew Jersev u hn has heen the pnest
,.....uuui, , ,.f . .i.fi. i.. ,.ii.... i.i.t i..i. . - - - , -
treasury to erect a state liulldint; with." ule ooaru of uireetors iransierrea for several weeks of hr paernts
day1or!e;,f,,se;;r'ir'od, to th rPl fund- making sheriff and Mrs. Wm. Pumphrey, has
state, of plans KoitiK forward for the 1s t- that fund 50,000.00 thus placing returned home
terimr of industriiil reliitimis. anil Im-
provement in prison methods, and the the bank the first In Mercer county The ladles' aid society of the M
educHtion-we read only now .if the on the Toll of honor' banks, by ahv- K. church will.be entertained this
brandishing of the politii-Hl war axe." Ing its surplus fund equal to its cap- afternoon at the church parlors by
"The Willis retime lias been desiuna-
ted as the Kieat Do Nothing administra- uanzauon. Mesdames Ford Lewis, Reuben Wag-
Mmirt Tne rePrt t0 the stockholders ner and John Bedell.
hut in hix)Hh and H-hims and niethod.s snoweu the business for 1915 the Former Editor A. C. F. Gilbere
of accomplishment. Never 1ms warrior most satisfactory in tue nistory or 0f the Observer has been appointed
I.OIU Tiuencneu, in larger measure nis tne bank, both as to profits and In
thirst for blood than the leader of the
present trilnj of head hunters in the state crease in deposits, which is Convinc
nouse.
Few people will ever know the tre
menduous effort made by the administra
tion of Krank It. Willis to wreck, und
crush the compulsory workmen s com
pensation law.
"it has been said that the Cox admin
istration was defeated liecause it passed
too many Kood laws for hasty assimila
tion ,and that it was criticised because
the full force of authority centered in
the Governor was exercised. In an an
alysis of that contention, let us submit
this observation: If It is the desire of
the people ol Ohio not to have construc
tive legislation passed when it is needed.
and if their wish be certain that bark-
bone depart from executive organism,
then It Is my recommendation that Frank
by Governor Willis as the Republi
can member of .the Mercer County
ing evidence of the excellent condi- Lionor License commission to suc
tion of affairs of the institution, n- Ceed R. L. Mattingly.
suing surety to the depositors, and jjj c. Thomas this week sold the
the popularity and efficiency of the Fayette restaurant business, West
present managing o'llcers of the Fayette street, next door to the Ash
bank. ipv -Untol tn T-T n Peed and T A
Rivett, of Ft. Wayne, Ind. The new
proprietors took Immediate posses
A MILITARISTIC
Ry Savoyard
PIPE DREAM
S. C,
A scheduled meeting of the local
ANOTHER
In The Columbia,
State
ot all the crazy visions even the ores'
unl !'... l.ou ....... I. ,1.A 1.1...:..... .....1
most destructive ol " human history, the board of health for last night at the
H. Willis be eelcted Governor ol Ohio tor dullest. It would uppear that the belli- Vfnvnr's nltlre didn't materialise
life. He meets ill fullest measure these kerent powers over yonder have notliim; lVlay01 8 0,nce materialize
specilications." in particular in the way of malice apainst and Mayor Scranton, who had been
"When I was Governor, the members one another. Our Uncle Samuel is the . , .
of the Agricultural Commission and the limn they are after, dn his lands, tene- requested 10 De present, tell me 01-
Governor himself paid their ways Into inents ana hereditaments, goods and h s f1(.p after waiting for nlmnut an hnnr
the State Fair, and when thousands of chattels, riKhts and privileges, are to be- "Ce' atUr walunS ror almost an hour
persons were admitted on pass without come the spoil ot embattled l-jurope, that for the members to ShOW Up.
riirm or reason me nasi year, tnose re- i is now oierciv m iraiuinu to iick us. as
sponsible lor it were, in the moral scale your Fitzsiiiunonses und Jack Johnsons
at least, as KUilty as if they had looted Bet in trim for a prize fight. Here is this
the cash box at the irate." Pipe dream:
"If we are to recognize the element of "limit Britain Is to occupy New Eng
simple Justice in the affairs of govern- land. Maryland. ViiKinu, North and South
ment. then its burdens must be euually Carolina, Ueortria and Florida.
distributed und taxation Is the only "France is to get the French parts of
means ot nils accomplishment, inai eastern c anaua, aim tne stales ot l.oui
was a militant policy of the Cox adminis- siana, Mississippi, Alabama, Arkansas,
tratlon. liecause of It the chance wag lennessee und Kentucky.
made that the authority of the state was "Germany is to occupy the states of
exceeded and the bit; stick. , so called, Aevv lorn, 1'ennsylvanla, Ohio, Indiana,
was used to keep down taxrates. To Michigan, Illinois, Missouri, Iowa, Wis-
the last named count 1 Ulead guilty, and consul and Minnesota.
If the interests of constructive progress- "Japan is to take the Pacific canst, the
ive government should ever call me bacK slate ot Oregon, upper and lower Cull
to oil. rial station. 1 shall take that same fornia.
elllclcnt Implement along." "Mexico is to be compensated for low-
"Tlie conclusion Is irresistible mal at- it l anioinia iy ceding lo It Arlzonia,
ter Ihe Willis administration nad gone iM'w iwexico and part ot Texas.
on for a tew months. Its active head liussla will receive Alaska.
knew full well that the wrath ot the peo- "'I he I'anama canal will be declared
ule would be upon him. and prudence free, w hile the western states. North and
suggested that he hide under the coat South Jakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Okla-
tails of a candidate for President. Pur- noma, Washington. Montana. Wyoming.
.,n in Ihi.t III, n, .1,1 Him Uiilwultt bill 1,1'tllO. Utah MMil I iliirn i li 1 will be ,,tnw,il-
was passed destroying the separate bal- iclated into an imperial clown domain of months has broken all sales records for
lot. Mr. Willis odublless argued that he the German empire.
fooled the people in 1 til 4 by mlsrepre- Well, they leave Uncle Sam the Dis-
sentation and that they would be fooled trict ol Columbia. That helps some
n 1II1C because they couldn t nnd him on
1:
the ticket."
Red net ion in the l'rice of the Over
land Startling New Year
.Announcement
A reduction of $5!i in the price of the
$700 Overland is the most startling New
Year's announcemetn made by John N.
Willys, President of the Willys-Overland
Company, of Toledo.
This Is the model which in the last six
Overland cars. Since June more than
OO, 000 of them have been sold in all parts
Ibis pipe dream appeared In the news of the world.
Judge Miller last Monday heard
the case of Casper Reler vs. James
Madison Ilirt and the matter was ta
ken under advisement.
The case of Carrie Plageman vs
Frank Harris et al was submitted
last Friday on motion for a new
trial. The motion was overruled
A motion in the case of Iiowe &
Johnson vs. Joseph Tlngley et al was
argued last Wednesday. The court
sustained the motion In part and ov
erruled it In part.
The partition case of Francis Kis
er vs. Aimlra McDonnell et al was
submitted last Friday. Deed to iJo
ra Taylor, party defendant, upheld
Title to lot deeded to her quieted
against plaintiff and co-defendants
Partition of remaining real estate
ordered: Sherman Lemunyon, John
H. Maurer and George Banter ap
pointed commissioners in partltoln.
Costs on contest of deed to be paid
by plaintiff and such defendants as
entered Into the contest, excepting
the defendant, Dora Taylor.
In the replevin action of Fred II.
Strofer et al vs. J. W. Knous, the
court last Tuesday found right of
possession of property in defendant.
Motion for a new trial overruled.
The case of Fred Winner vs. Ar
thur Brandewine et al was submitted
last Wedensday. Defendints were
given 30 days to pay money, with in
terest, and deliver chattel property
designated in answer and cross-peti
tion to the plaintiff.
Attorney I'. E. Kenney was ap
pointed b ythe court to defend Alon
zo Kelley, charged with abandoning
legitimate children.
Frank Meyers, indicted for forgery
was arrainged before Judge Miller,
last Wednesday. He plead not guil
ty and his case assigned for trial.
Attorney John Kramer was appoint
ed to defend him. Bond aws fixed
$500. Unable to furnish bond he
was remanded to jail.
The best Institute ever held In tl
county will be held at Neptune on Wed
nrHiliiy and Thursday Februury I and 3
The aepakera will lie C. K. Wagner,
daya; J. W. Hammond, 1 day and Or
Mary 10. Anderson, 1 day.
i' y ui ul I !. i act; our pro'i'ii
send name and uddress to Arlalid Cope
hind, aecretary, It. 1). 10, Celina. Ohio.
Full progium will be published later.
The following cases on the Janu
ary docket or the common Pleas
Court have been settled:
Frank Bruns et al vs. Frank Ben-
ke, as treasurer.
Sophia Crockett vs. John Desch et
al.
Nettie Heffner vs. August Heffner.
Jacob Carman vs. Adam Alt.
Frank Dabbelt vs. Chas. Meiner-
ding.
Senator Jamea D. Johnson, of Celina
has announced himself aa a Democratic
candidate for the Appellate Court nomi
nation in this district, a va 'ancv being
left in the court by the resignation nf
Judge Ansberry, and whose auccesaor
must be chosen at Ihe general eleclioi
next lull. e are out pei onai!y i
riininted with eSnator Johnson, but he
has u state reputation oi- his Democracy
und is considered on of tin Hide 'mi 'itm
of the Htutfy ,wlth u ripe exeriencH. He
no doubt will make a strong cundldate
Napoleon North-West News.
IJ. 10. Mott, one of the best known
young Democrats of Gibson township,
made this olllce a friendly call while In
town Monday circulating umong liia
friends und letting them understund lie
would be a cundldate lor County Audi
tor at the August primary. One thing
is certain, with such men as Mr. Molt
contesting for nomination, there will be
a ceian cumpulgn and the winner will
deserve to Will.
From the PImuu leader Dispatch: Per
sous who tlnd their taxes higher this
year than lust year must remenilMr that
the rate Is Sl.li'i on every thousand in
advance of what It was last year. The
higher rale was necessary to provide the
required revenue as the duplicate shrunk
Mbout I70H.0IIU In the county." It might
have added eulightment to the situation
had the editor pointed out the fact that
the Willis patronage dispenser for re
tral western Ohio Is a resident of Phjua
und the Kepiiijitcan dictator or Miami
county.
Mercer county Democrats announce the
candidacy of lion. James D. Johnson, of
Cellnu, Ohio as a cundldate for Judge of
the Court of Appeals lo take the pla.ru of
ex-Congressman Ansberrv who resigned
from the bench. Mr. Johnson Is one of
the leading attorneys of Western Ohio.
There in no doubt but what he will urge
his candidacy with vigor. He has many
acquaintances among the members of the
liar throughout the District. putnuin
County Sentinel.
Following the endorsement of Wilson
for president and Cox for governor in
Van Wert and Butler counties, the com
mittees of Madison county formed a Wil
son club last week and actlne- with the
county committees endorsed Wilson for
jresident, Cox lor governor, adn gave
louorable mention to John L. Zimmer
man for vice-president. Compliment was
paid also to cnester uryan as a candi
date for state treasurer.
J. B Mauer informs us that he will be
a caudidute for County Recorder at the
primary election to be held In August.
Mr. .Maurer made the race tour years
ago and run exceedingly well. We think
it is not putting it too strongly to suy
that lie Is one of the best busines men
of the county, and thoroughly trusted by
His numerous friends hereabouts
hope to see him land the most eltluient
kind of an olllcial. Mendon Herald.
F.x-Senator J. D. Johnson, of Celina.
has unonunced his candidacy for the De
mocratic onmination for appellate Judge
to tie submitted to the Democratic voters
at the next August primary. Senator
Johnson has a number of warm friends
in Puuldlng county. Paulding Democrat.
NOTED
Pioneer People Called Acrcss
ths Great Divide
Among; Them the Venerable Mn
Mary ('opcluiid ant Samuel lintok
hurt Mrs. Morrill Itaadl
Mrs. Mary Perkins Copeland, aged
91 years, widow of the late Wesley
Copeland, died at the borne of her
daughter, Mrs. I. II. Mallck, east of
this city, at seven o'clock last Mon
day evening, following a brief Uness.
Slie had suffered from a cold but It
was not thought serious until pneu
monia developed Sunday morning,
and death ensued the day following.
She is survived by six children, her
husband having preceded her in
death seven years ago. Since bis
death she had lived with ber three
children In this county, S. K. and W.
T. Copeland and Mrs. I. H. Mallck,
where her death occurred. Mrs.
Copeland had been a resident of this
county since her marriage which oc
curred In 1853.
Funeral services were held Wed
nesday afternoon.
Mr. and Mrs. C. C. DIdier and fa
mily, of Chicago, 111., and Charles and
Chris Meyer, of Alexandria, Ind.,
were called here by the death of
their sister, Mrs. Ida Morrill.
The remarkably low price is made pos
sible only through u combination of cir
cumstances which have placed the Over-
Spelling school champions are the
heroes and heroines of the day in
Mercer county. Miss Zedna Boice,
teacher at the Landfair school, lays
claim to the Liberty township cham
columns of a Washington paper one Sun-
duy morning ana I doubt it its like ever
was printed belore. London and Berlin
carls and V teniiu, Petrograu and Con-
thinking of a conquest of the Cited l!'"a Co'''P""y a, Position where it can
unci- inure mr lur h?hs inuiiy man pruu1
ably any other concern in the industry.
Due to the fore.slirht and keen business
acumen ot Mr. Wilivs, the materials us-
I . . A i ...j ...,.. i,.... , -l.
4,. ,!. ,.c Ti ru in vvi iuiiu til a kiio yvm wcic uuuKiit
ui",., .. r ..'i: before the war sent prices soaring. To
' . .. . iriilii HoiuH
States than they are of a military expe
dition ugainst the planet Jupiter.
tt may be deduced Horn tne idiocy ot
tne conception mat some teiiow mac n
ed the stuff and put it in the paper hop
ing lo promoio the cause oi prepared
less. i. iitti. in iiiveiv, iui uui Kioi luua I ,....i ......... u i i i..
lo f,,ll F tnllr ,!, l.ullo,o Ir, V,o ,. t " 1 " "" IHC.-C BUVU1RS, 11. IS
.....1 ...it,. !... tv,in,.o rj.a l., sinceu initi uie coinpa.o.v lias ueen uiae
and witches and things. Heie we have tn a.lvn ... 5nn ' -llminl,m i,,e
8 ter, and Callus she cares not a continen- ,aFrod' ct on caoacltv has lumoed to a
" .1:.'!;.. ".FiL I'i.'L8!"! thou'san'cmsTdayf and8 OveXd offl-
pion in the person of a ten year Old of the great divide, though Mexico will "5 W'-'JL " ' "f-v'n
FnelHii.l w not effected by such a tremenduous output
-r-, . ,nt,u u I'm unah on r n inurAc rno nc 0
i..i ii. j..t, p if ue anoweu 10 rcgum l exa unu some
Bin, mo uou6.un an. mm other states round aliout
Andy Bauer, who recently came out hitrs rwiiiys-overiand Com
elling match not rine off the seas. .She wants New Eng- iBnto,l 'hU ?
land and the south end ot our Atlantic ,," " - -iT Vii..i.t A TCVT' .r-Ji
victorious in a spelli
only against the school but when pit
ted against the teachers of other
schools.
The spelling contests are full of
interest and every township is lay
ing claim to a champion. The Dem
ocrat will be glad to print all spell
Ing-bee reports.
seaboard. France is not after Alsace
moraine. She covets 1- rench Canada and
that Dart of the United States Thomas
Jefferson bought of Napoleon Bonaparte.
Kussia is perfectly mumerent aboul
Constantinople; her aim is to regain
Alaska, which she sold to William H.
Seward at an enormous price as the
trade was then estimated bv the public.
Japan Is to put up with our Pacific slope,
and other far wester nchlps and whet
stores laying about loose in Uncle Sam's
reserve the right to advance the price
should the cost of materials continue to
rise.
MONTEZUMA
EiA MOSAUNT-,isle.
-Be Cigar, mfg. by Stan
PHILOTHEA
Henry Steggeman Is on the sick lint
ay
Mrs. Itoy Knouse and children, of
backyard are to be gobbled up and made Lima, Ohio, have returned home af
ter spending a few days with rela
tives here.
Harry Neal and wife have moved
to Lima.
John Klosterman spent Saturday
nigth and Sunday with his mother.
of Chickasaw.
into an imperial crown domain for the
Kaiser.
This Is the most extravagant and the
stupidest crazy dream that the war has
produced, so tar as my observation goes.
Mrs. George Weber, East Livings
ton street, narrowly escaped the loss
ivmhis , (im? 'n Vi t i mlH!ortun ,,?1 of her right eye In a peculiar acci- Mrs. Dalph Frank and children, of
last week, but is now heniimr niceiv. dent last Saturday. She was using Lima, e
The daughter of Frank lleininelgurn ,,n!i fllo nnd In nttpmntine- tn hrush rents, '.
nd wife was very 111 the ilrst of the a naU me ana m attempting to Drusn
'k- .a n . v.1 ., , her hair away from her eye, the file n..
Bernard Osterholt sold a valuable cow
spent a few days with her pa-
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Wade, of
ace.
Orville Stoner. of Iowa, has re-
Tuesday, struck and cut the eye ball, bhe suf- turned home after spedning a few
MHffikTilirWit hSiM! e lntense Pain and Sunday it days with his brother. M. B .Stoner
entine and Kdward. Frank Nieherilinir ,ua tTmncrVit uhn wn-ilrl hnva tn ha ana Wire.
accompanied him for an indefinite stay. , ,. TT .... Miss Gladys Preston spent Sunday
'1 ne nanus oi matrimony tor toward i.aeu tu a Mpuciciiini. oci uuuuuiuu, with Amanda Heavlin
v iiiiiiiui.il iu ....v. yum ...mi. woi o .- a miinh ImnmvoH Mnn
nnounced here lust Sunday for the lirst
time. Who's next?
The pews rented In our church on Jan.
brought the neut little sum of $1945.
Last Sunday evening Henry Re ntzind
family entertulned a large party of neigh
bors and friends In honor of Henry Brown
In appreciation of his four years of faith
ful service In their employ.
The sick of the village are slowly
day and it is now believed she will improving.
get along all right and not loose the an l- "I comnsspent
... Monday with Mrs. C, P. Heavlin and
BlKht- mother.
Da MOSAUNT Clear. Sold bv the best Thlrtv Minutes honest smoke t. a
dealers everywhere. MOSAUNT Cigar.
The following assignment of court
cases was made by Common Pleas
Judge Miller this wek:
January 20 Willshire Carpenter
vs. Mabel Carpenter.
January 24 W. H. Beery vs. the
County Commissioners.
January 25 ;Harry VanKirk vs.
the Village of Ft. Recovery.
January 26 Chas. Hornlclc vs.
same.
January 26 Mary B. LeBlond vs.
same.
January 27 Motions in the five
cases of Bernard Rose, Lawrence
Frank, Bernard Ronier, Henry Nie
porte and Frank B. Romer vs. Chap
man Bros.
February 16 A motion in the
case of Dennis Dwyer vs. Frank
Benke, as treasurer.
The following jury cases were al
so assigned:
January 31 State of Ohio vs. Al-
onzo Kelley.
February 1 State of Ohio vs.
Frank Meyers.
February 2 J. J. Weller vs. I. E.
Crampton et al.
. February 4 Isaac Putnam et al
vs. Board of County Commissioners.
February 10 David M. Hillyeard
vs. L. E. Sternberg.
J. R. Redmon, living west of this
city, went to Saginaw, Mich., last
Tuesday on business and expects to
be gone several weeks. His wife
and children went to Mendon to visit
relatives while Mr. Redmon is at
Saginaw.
BASIS OF UNITY
Ohio State Journal. Republican.
President Wilson's address to the Pan
American congress was one of his best.
All through It was breathed the spirit of
unity, friendship and peace. His idea
is that the United States and the South
American nations should get together for
mutual defense and development. The
basis of this fellowship Is thus declared
by the president:
united in guaranteeing to each
other absolute political independence
and territorial integrity.
Agree to settle all pending boundry
disputes as soon as possible by ami
cable process.
Agree to handle all disputes arising
among them by patient, impartial in
vestigatioln, and to settle them by
arbitration.
Agree that no revolutionary expe
dition shall be outfitted against or
supplies lor revolutionists snipped to
neighboring state.
That Is practically what the neaoe lea
gue proposes for the confederacy of na
tions and a new statement of internation
al law. If the president would make a
similar utterance to the world, as thla
nation's idea of what would banish war
from our civilization, it would be the
greatest act of his life. There is no fine
haired diplomacy that should make this
natioin hesitate to proclaim these ideas
to all nations and to appeal to them to
embrace them, and got together for the
glory of humanity. The spirit of this
declaration is grand and It will unite the
nations of the world, it is urged.
"Hev! You
MOSAUNT.
Smokers," buy the La
Candidates ror the appellate court
nch are appearing in ihe tield. Former
Senutor James i. Johnson, of Celina, is
the latest one to steu into the battle.
and his name will be up before the pri
maries to be held next August. He is
well known throughout tne state
and Is strongly indorsed in Mercer coun
ty. He is ulso an able lawyer and has a
wide experience in handling questions of
law. Other men have been mentioned
as posibllities, but none of thein have
been actually put before the voters in
this district by their own personal state
ments. Lima Dally News.
SENSATIONAL EXPOSURE
DISCLOSED AT ST. MARYS
St. Marys Leader
Disregard of professional confi
dence is evident in the publication of
a news story in a Wapakoneta paper
Wednesday concerning an investiga
tion into the deaths of Louise and
Blanche Halter, little daughters of
Mr. and Mrs. Lee J. Halter, South
Wayne street, St. Marys. The inves
tigation hsa been in progress since
the first of the week and has been a
matter of detailed knowledge with
The Leader from the beginning.
Acting on request of Sheriff Shockey
and Attorney L. C. Brodbeck, who de
clared the subject was not sufficient
ly advanced for publication and that
publicity might hinder a successful
solution of the problem, the Leader
refrained from mention. Anyway a
few of the items of the case were
given publicity. Testimony Includes
that of a mentally afflicted daughter
of Henry Schwepe who is quoted as
saying she gave poison to the Halter
children because she did not wish to
shave a piano which Mr. Schwepe
was considering selling to Mr. Halter
as a Christmas gift to the Halter
family. On account of the Schwepe's
girl's unfortunate mental affliction
her testimony in the absence of cor
roborative evidence is naturally of
little weight. That is about the ex
tent of the facts. Since the matter
Is made public property in spite of
official prohibition, the Investigation
will likely suffer no further setback
by the statement that Mr. Halter has
volunteered hs consent for the ex
huming of the remains fo his daugh
ter Louise who was the second of the
children to be taken sick with pois
oning but was the first to die indi
catng that the poison in her case was
of larger volume or of greater
strength. Messrs. Shockey and Brod-
have not fully decided whether or
not to take up the body. Evidence
as to where the poison was secured
and how administered remains a
mystery.
Mrs. Ida Morrill, aged S4 years, a
sister of Clothing Merchant Joe Mey-
r, died at the joint tuberculosis hos
pital at Lima at six o'clock Thursday
evening, January 6, following an ill
ness which began last June.
Deceased was born at Rockford,
September 22, 1861, and has been
a resident of Mercer County almost
all her life. At the age of 19 she
was united in marriage to Rolla Mor
rill, who preceded her In death 21
years ago. Two daughters, Estella
and Ertna, also preceded the mother
In death.
She is survived by two daughters.
Mrs. C. C. Diddier, of Chicago, 111.,
and Mrs. Clifford Winklejohan, and
an adopted son, Linus Schwartz, of
this city. Three brothers Joe Mey
er, of this city and Charles and Chris
Meyer, of Alexandria, Ind., also sur
vive.
The remains were brought to this
city last Friday morning and taken
to her brother's home on East Mar
ket street
Funeral services were held at the
Catholic church last Monday morn
ing, Rev. Hefele saying the Requiem
Mass and Rev. Hlndelang preaching
the sermon. A largo concorse of
friends attended the services.
Charles King and Horace B. Solo-
man last Tuesday purchased fo Mah
lon Redman the Rex Moiton Picture
house, at the corner of Main and
Warren streets, taking immediate
possession. For several months past
Mr. Soloman has bee namnaging the
show house for Mr. Redman and he
will continue to do so under the new
firm.
Bleeding stopped by Hanford'a Balaam.
Samuel Brookhart, aged 86 years,
a pioneer resident of Hopewell town
ship, died at his home last Monday
night.
The Wednesday previous he sus
tained a fall, and had been bedfast
since that time. Funeral services
were held yesterday morning at ten
o'clock from Copp's church, with the
Rev. Roebuck in charge.
Mr. Brokhart's wife died 22 years
ago and his daughter, Mrs. William
Brush and family resided with him.
H. M. Grubbs, aged 56 years, sen
ior member of the dry cleaning firm
of Grubbs & Bear, just south of the
Ellis Hotel, died last Monday morn
ing at half past three at his home
above the Ashcraft restaurant, next
door to the Ellis House. Last Fri
day he developed a bad cold which
developed into pneumonia.
Deceased was born at New Castle,
Ind. He moved from Rochester,
Ind., to Coldwater several years ago
where he had charge of a dry clean
ing plant run by Bill Aller, of thla
city. A couple of months ago he
and Stanley Bear, also of Coldwater,
purchased the Aller shop here, and
moved to this city.
He is survived by his wife and
four small children, who are left in
destitute circumstances.
Funeral services were held at the
M. E. Church Wednesday afternoon.
Interment at North Grove cemetery.
Mrs. W. H. Bretz was called to
Dayton last Monday to attend the fu
neral of her aunt, Mrs. Mary Mc
Sherry, who died there last Satur
day. Deceased was a sister of the
late Dr. J. N. Hetzler, Mrs. Breti's
father, and was known to a number
of Celina people, having visited here
many times.
LUTHERAN CHUKC1I
Sunday-school, 8:45 a. m.
English service, 10:00 a. m."
English Vesper Service, 7 p. m.
Installation of the newly elected
members of the church council at the
fornoon service.
HOPEWELL
Sunday-school, 1:00 p. m.
English Service, 2:00 p. m.
Installation of the newly elected
members of th church council In con
nction with the service.
Earl Wagner and daughter. Miss
Irene, went to Cincinnati last Tues
day to meet the former's father and
his two brothers and their families,
of Summer, 111., who were in the
Queen City enroute to Jacksonville,
Fla., to spent the remainder of the
winter.
Mr. and Mrs. Charls Kelley, West
Fayette street are the pround par
ents of a baby girl born last Monday.
Hanford'a Balsam has btwn auomuia.
fully used since U46 for man and beast.
