.-
HOME EDITION
y
a-
f
I r
.
TODAY'S PRICES
Kexican hank notes state bills) 9H
Mexican pesos 42 Nacionales bills 17
-Carraoza currency 4 Bar silver
fKanj & H lrmon quotations) 57
Copper tl 2 l. rains lower Livestock
st "-cms Stocks higher.
WEATHER FORECAST.
1 Fao and wet Texas cloudy, warmers
New 3fexlco and Arizona cloadj; north
ern Arizona, snow.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FtYE CENTS.
EL PASO. TEXAS, FRIDAY EVENING. JANUARY 14, 1916.
DELIVERED ANrWHERE CENTS A MONTH.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
ARRA
1
1
liJLdJnk tDJt 1 m
MURDERE
uez
AMERICA
RS PURSUED
NS TO GET OUT OF MEXICO
-
Consul Garcia Says Carranza
Has Veterans Enough To
Suppress Lawlessness.
RODRIGUEZ IS
REPORTED DEAD
Gen. Trevino Says His Fate
Will Be the Fate Of All
Ulher Bandits Caught.
THAT Jose Rodriguez, former Villa
commander and supposed leader
of the Mexican band which mur
dered IS Americans west of Chihuahua
city Monday, has been executed, is the
statement received at the local Car
ranza consulate in El Paso
The bandits who did the slaying may
f,nbee,n ? pa f tbe -BodrlsW com
mand, it Is admitted, and the crime
may have been committed on his or
?,erA ritfi his tan knowledge? but
it le not believed that he could have
been present at Santa Ysabel on "ion?
??V.personnd have been captured
at Madera on Thursday.
One or the Other Wrong.
The argument is that if Rodriguez
SS gref ent at the execuUon. as re
ported, he has not been killed: If he
has been captured and killed at Ma-
?,ra' ? v?vas. not P"sent at the slaugh
ter of the Ameripan. it ....-i-...,
"J:he sub-chiefs. Reyna. Lopez, and '
Spe .u'L w1re in- "nmediate command I
of the band at Santa YsabeL
.A,tra?n sala to e bearing the body I
. ..ouc, .cj.4. aaoora mis morning
for Juarez. The body is being brought
to the. border, it is said. In order that
Americans' and Mexicans alike can see
MHoam-wn.
The telegram claiming that Rodri
guez had been executed came from
Gen. Jacinto Trevino. military com
mander of CarranEi fnrrw. m,ri...
h'ja city, in answer to a telegram sent
tc him hv consul Andres Garrla in El
Paso, asking what punishment is to
be meted out to the Chihuahua bandits
when and if apprehended by the Car
ranza government.- His telegram un
der date of Friday morning was as fol
lows "The punishment to be adiministered
to the culprits In the Santa Ysabel
massacre of Americans. I inform you.
will be. identical with that meted out
to Rodriguez and Carlos Almeida, who
were made prisoners and shot to
death."
Need No American Troops.
The Carranza government will not
permit entry of a United States force
into northern Mexico to help wipe out
armed banditry in the state of Chi
huahua, it was announced officially
Friday afternoon.
Definite reply to an Inquiry to Mexi
can consul Andres G. Garcia Friday at
4 oclock In the morning, brought im
mediate response to that effect
The inquiry Mr. Garcia received is as
follows:
"Tour courtesy being known to us,
we beg to ask you to beseech Mr. Car
ranza in our behalf to answer by wire
what Is his attitude regarding events
transpired at Santa Tsabel: and If.
in case president Wilson should ask
his permission to send American troops
into Mexican territory to cooperate In
the capture of the Santa Ysabel cul
prits, would he permit It?"
Garcln's Response.
Consul Garua's response was as fol
lows. "The American government knows
that Mr Carranza's government has
enough veteran troops familiar with
the country in the state of Chlhimhua
to exterminate the few bands of brig
ands which still infest the district X
doubt whether the government at
Washington will make such a reoii ;
which in tne remote .case of being
granted should have as a result the
transforming of today's small bands of
outlaws into an armed movement of
Importance Nevertheless, I am trans
mitting to Mr Carranza your Inquiry."
The consul added in reply to verbal
Inquirj Fridav forenoon that any force
of expeditionanes, whether of a mili
tary or civilian nature, would be re
fused permission to hunt down the
Mexican bandits in Chihuahua state, to
the best of bis knowledge and belief
ELPASOISCMOFFIEIS;
EBDAIIMS BURIED
i
Friends Attend All Services, "Where Police Are Neces
sary to Handle Crowds; Thousands ViewKemains at
Local Undertaking Parlors; Charlie Watson's
Funeral Saturday; Bodies Shipped to Homes.
0. s. CONSULS!
E'
L PASO has been a city of funerals
and dead since the arrival of the
"death special" from Chihuahua
earlv Thursday morning with the vic
tims of the massacre at Santa Ysabel
Mcnday.
Following the double funeral of
Maurice Anderson and E. L. Robinson,
Thursday afternoon, funeral service
for Thomas M. Evans was held at 2
oclock Friday afternoon at the J. J.
Kaster Undertaking company chapel
The funeral service was in charge of
Rev. Henry Easter, of the church of
St Clement, who said the simple service
for the dead. The chapel was crowded.
and the street in front of the place
overflowing- with friends of the dead
man. The burial was in Eve-green
cemetery. Fnends of the dead man
acted as pall bearers.
Funeral For Romero,
Funeral services for M. B. Romero,
company auditor or the Cusi Mining
company, were held Friday afternoon
at 3:30 oclock at the Immaculate Con
ception Cathedral. The decedent is
survived by a wife and two sisters.
Mrs. M. R. Lucero, and Mrs. C. Padilla,
of Santa Fe, N. M-
Arrangements have not yet been
completed for the funeral of Charles
R.. Watson, the general manager of the
Cusi. Mining Co. It win probably be
held here Saturday although no defi
nite announcement has yet been made.
The Shrine will probably be in charge
and the burial will be in El Paso.
Bodies Shipped.
While funerals were being held in
the local churches and undertaking
parlors auto hearses were moving back
and forth between the parlors and the
union station where the bodies were
shipped to their homes in the "states."
A. H. Conch's body was shipped to
Barnhart Texas. Thursday night over
the G. H. & S. A. The funeral will be
held there.
The remains of Charles Wadlelgh
were shipped to Buffalo, X. Y Thurs
day night where the relatives of the
dead man live.
Jasper Pearce. a brother of W. D.
Pearce, arrived here from Los Angeles
and accompanied the body back. He
came from Santa Rita, X. M.
Prlngle to San Francisco.
Charles A. Prlngle's body was
shipped to San Francisco Thursday
night for burlaL His brothers are
prominent merchants of that city.
H. C Hase was shipped to Kansas
City, 11a, Thursday evening for bunaL
The body of George W. Newman was
shipped to Keene, N H., Thursday af
ternoon on the Golden State limited af
ter services were held Thursday morn
ing from the Kaster Undertaking com
pany's parlors.
Mellatton Funeral Here.
The arrangements for the funeral of
Richard McHatton have not been com
pleted but will probably be held Sun
day In El Paso and will be In charge of
the Elks, of which he was a member.
The burial will be here. His brother,
Edsoll McHatton is here from Los An
geles to attend the funeral, and his
father is expected this afternoon.
(Continued on page 3, Col. 1.)
TDLD TO URGE
AN EXODUS. '
A'
Secretary Lansing Wires
Consul Edwards To Notify
All In His District.
specialYrain TO '
BRING MANY OUT
Effort Is Made To Get 125
Americans Out of "Parrot
By Train.
f TNITED STATES -nnn1 T r w.
U wards. In Juarez Friday morn- I? nX , under tn command of Lieut
w ,..i . . , . F a Rsers arrived at the police sta-
Ing, received instructions from I tion at double quick time. This de
secretary of state Lansing to endeavor I tachment of soldiers was scattered up
to get all Americans out of northern ' f down .verland, st"t, between El
M, ,rffTO ., . . , ,, paso aBd Campbelt Several minutes
Mexican territory and to Inform all . later other companies from the Sixth
sections including Chihuahua, Torron, J and 16th Infantries to the number of
and the foreign consuls In El P-iso cf i f n a" "Ported to their superior
CII STMTS IT 0 BROADWAY;
D SOLDIERS
Fight Between a Soldier and a Mexican on Broadway
Starts Near-Riot, Which Starts Toward Mexican
Quarter When Sheriff, Police Captain and Four
Officers Stop Them With Drawn Pistols.
DFFIGERS AN
STOP IT
T the point of drawn revolvers
In the hands of Capt L. L. Hall,
of the police department, and
sheriff Peyton F. Edwards, strength
ened by four other officers, a crowd
of between 800 and 1000 men, was
stopped on Broadway, between Over
land and Second street at 9:15 last
night, and determinedly pushed north
to San Antonio street
Troops Ordered Ont.
In the meantime word had been
phoned to Gen. J. J. Pershing of the
condition that existed in town and
orders, were sent out to have all
soldiers report to their camps at once.
ai . a company from the 16th In
JUSTRISTIE
GETTIKIT!
GRAITSUER
GOTO RATE
Railroad Commission Issues
Order Granting Increases
in Freight Rates.
Austin. Tex., Jan. 14. Eff ectlv e Feb
ruary E, the railroad commission today
announced numerous changes In com
modity tariffs, all giving increases in
freight rates. No class tariffs were
touched. Flour and grain may be
raised next week.
The changes allowed today, growing
ont of the recent hearing on the ap
plication of the railroads for an in
crease were:
Minimum weight on cartridges
raised to 30,000 pounds. The rates of
40 and 45 cents respectively, from
Houston and Galveston, are cancelled
and a straight minimum of 60 cents
is to apply for both places.
The minimum weight on the ferti
lizer tariff is increased to 30.000 pounds.
with no change in the tariff rates. " l0".l?J,i 7"""'i 'Si" manager McQuatters. uh.ch iV,i ,T
- . - . m.ii3i. iiih rriiurirn nnriisivi- ul luc .a. gu i .- . . .
increased rates are allowed on cannea .. ,-',., Kainiki aid not ager nawKins nolds, giving Hawkins
Montenegrin Capital is Cap
tured; Armistice, Pend
ing Peace, is Reported.
Vienna, Austria, Jan. 14. The cap
ture of Cettinje, capital of Montenegro,
was announced by the war office.
The Austrlans three days ago were
within ten miles of th,e capital and It
was reported from enemy sources that
the Montenegrin government would
abandon the capital.
Armistice Reported.
London. Entr Jan. 14. A wireless
dispatch from Rome reiterating the re
port of an armistice between Austria
the order. The wire received by consul
Edwards is as follows:
"Washington, D. C, Jan. 13. 1316.
"American consul, Cludad Juarez,
Mexico.
"In view of recent occurrences in
the state of Chihuahua and great
danger from attack by bandits in the
outlying mountainous district of Chi
huahua and Durango, the department
reiterates 'its advice to all Americans
to leave ;sucb districts fdr well gar
risoned centers along the main lice, of
railway, from which points they can
more readily reach the border, should
danger threaten them.
"Inform all Americans known to bo
In such districts: repeat to Torreon and
JJurango for similar action, and foe
itc cumqi weans persona; guidance.
Ktr cvoy IO ioreic-n rnnsmw In Fl T-
Jsitheirlnffu-mtit!dn, and -to Letcher
ana coba. ' -
Signed) - "Lansing."
Special Train Prom Chlhnahna.
A long train bringing out all the
mining men in the Chihuahua city.dis
trict under the charge of W. J. Quigley,
started for the border at 8:30 Friday
morning. Word from Quigley himself
was received oy E. S. Plumb, of the El
Potosi company, in EI Paso, telling of
me start of the refugee special. All
Americans m Chihuahua city and vi
cinity were asked to come out with the
mining men.
To Bring 123 From Parrat.
( J. Y. Baskin took a special train down
for ParraL leaving Juarez at six oclock.
He Is expected to reach the Parral dis
trict close to midnight tonight. His or
ders are to bring every one of the 120
officers at the police station and were
assigned to guard duty.
MaJ. nines Commands.
MaJ. J. L. Hines, adjutant general of
Gen. Pershing's staff, arrived upon the
scene shortly after the company under
Lieut Rogers began duty on Overland
street and personalty took charge of
the latrol problem. Additional soldiers
passed along San Anton-.? street bgund
fo- South El Paso and na tney passed
along the crowded sidewalks were
cneered excitedly by the ,-row.ls
gon streets, where the crowd was
large, and started a "fusee" burning to
make sufficient light to take moving
pictures of the crowd. This caused, an
other gathering of civilians and sol
diers at the downtown corner, but
there was no other disturbances than
the coyote yelp of a peanut seller, the
call of the newsboy and the good na
tured jostling of the crowd.
The picture of the crowd lining San
Antonio and Oregon streets in all four
directions, the street cars and autos
stalled and the provost guards, and the
mounted police riding through the
crowd, made a spectacular sight which
should give good "action" to the movie
man's films.
A little later a crowd of soldiers
on "shoreleave" downtown from the
fort were rounded up and placed upon
Fort Bliss street cars by the provost
guards. This ended the disturbances
for the night
Many Fights.
Although there were a large num
ber of small impromptu fights report
ed to the police, only two Mexicans
were brought to the emergency hospi
tal for treatment from the lower sec
tion of the city Jose Sanchez had a
bad cut in the head, the result of be
ing struck by either a club or pistol,
while Juan Garcia was severely beaten
about the head and face Both stated
that they had encountered small groups
of soldiers and civilians who. after
chasing them for some distance, beat
them about the head and face.
10 Arrests.
Nineteen arrests of men 'supposed to
have been agitators of the trouble at
First Chief Says Precautions
Will Be Taken To Pre- ,
vent Similar. Outrages.
NO INTERBENTION
PLANNED BY U. 5.
Senator Stone Confers With
President; Intervention
Bills Unconsidered.
The riluirrii- tra. r.initit k . ! Overland and Broadway were made and
soldiers knocking two Mexicans from ' ?!aceo. .,B ?e city Jail, on charges of
goods, coal and lignite: the canned
goods minimum weight was increased
to 30.000 pounds and a maximum rate
01 3i cents was reacnea . -" u;".
Increases were allowed on lime,
brick and hollow and drain tile.
The asphaltum maximum rate was
increased to 20 cents with a maximum
weight of 30,000 pounds.
iVnife anil fuel netroleum were given
a maximum rate of 15 cents, reached at
3S0 miles, against a present maximum
of 10 1-2 cents at 250 miles. The rail
roads asked for 17 maximum rate at
750 miles. The minimum rate for tank
cars was fixed at full gallonage capa
city, with a two percent outage.
In following the Dath of the soldiers
and the civilians who had joined them
Bleeding Mexicans lined the route. It
was estimated that not less than 25
Mexicans were beaten up and assaulted
by the soldier mob: and many of these
came or were brought to the police
emergency hospital for treatment
though the majorit) were hastened to
their homes by friends.
Xntional Guard.
Not only was the police forced to
the limit but every provost guard
that could be thrown into the field
was placed b Lieut M C Shallenber
ger. The national guard company, un
der the command of Capt Walter Jen
kins, was detailed upon special duty
at the police station, fear being en
tertained by the police that an effort
would be made to get the -23 Villa
generals and politicians ImDrisoned in
occur. The reports that the attack had ' discretionary orders in all matters, even the. "a""- , . . . '
begun against the forces of the allies the most urgent It is believed that the A number, of civilians refused to
apparently originated In the activity of tale of the massacre of last Monday will moTe on "nder their instructions, and
AiniiTprosed essaon? ffatd toh ?h? traVh'olne! t
at0lSntg,1aisSepIrkhtetpeea1celrP0Se f neSU" "? S23?! ,t0 $ OTeoatttJ-pEr!
alin?.a sfP?S.'e,JB.'acel j ,. ral district Is the order from nr,l
the sidewalk at Broadway ni.il Son An
tonio streets. A number of fist fights
occurred in saloons between Americans,
mostly soldiers and Mexicans.
The attack upon the two Mexicans at
San Antonio and Broadway was the
"SenrtnzramWsr or VnirMri. tS I
augmented to 25. Then began a general
slugging match. No Mexican whom
they encountered escaped their blows.
Down Broadway they passed, then over
to South El Paso, The cry was, "Let's
get down and clean them out"
Follow Crowd.
The police under CaDt Hall, and
sheriff Edwards and his deputies took
disturbing the peace. This does not in- I
elude the number that were taken into
custody on charges of refusing to move
I
on when ordered to do so by the officer. I
but who were not placed in jaiL The
names of those arrested for disturbing
JSjSateSri
a peace axa m fnlteWi .TmoSPThIe
ZFCMerf R. Qnflerrezt P; LabraOo. A.
Domineuex. L. Carina, L. Torres, E.
Chavez. G Romo, R. Robinson. M. Luna.
G. C Christie, G Moreckert F. Schumtz.
A. W. Place, John Jones. Bob Weidraan.
G. E. Webster and M. Henry.
Bayonet Found.
Numerous persons were searched In
an attempt to find concealed weapons.
WASHINGTON, D. C, Jan. 14.
At today's cabinet meet
ing it was decided that the
present policy would be main
tained and Gen. Carranza would be
depended upon to punish the Villa
bandits who killed American citi
zens In Chlhnahna.
Gen. Carranza today telesnphed
his ambassador as follows from hls
headquarters at Qaeretaro:
"The murderous attack on the
passenger train near Chihuahua
was made by the only remaining;
hand of outlaws. This band is be
ing pursued by my troops with a
view to insure Its capture; where
upon punishment, which, the crime
deserves, will be applied to every
guilty participant. Troops: of the
Constitutionalist sroverament have
l.,.lien j. ordered- tspcstaMislrpntroI
J- -xrom-end toTeniTStVtae railroad line
in order to prepare against similar
outrages.
and four Mexicans in whose possession
up the trail. There was no difficulty pIto1? ,and kntves were Xound were
the French In blowing up the bridges vvm Hawkins pver without hesitation. ,, A , u ";
connecting Saloniki with the road over ! and the big Alverado nlant mat, , .,,., I clUDDea and
wVt,t, ,Y.a ntlonlr... .fl,Y WftflTlaH, 1 flftYim OT,lt,nt.t nla.nl. ... . .. I T
nuiw. .uc aviaA.0 ..vw.. .. .., ,..-.. n.t..vu. uw.t.ug VUV anQ tnft
ARMED I IQtJI BAND IS
SEEN .VGAIt TUCSON, ARIZ.
Tucson. Ariz., Jan. 14 A county
ranger has reported to sheriff A. w.
Forbes having seen a band of 12 armed
and mounted Yaqui Indians near Twin
Buttes. Every man had a rifle and
two belts of ammunition, but no depre
dations were reported State and mili
tary authorities all through the coun
try south of Tucson have been notified
to be on the watch for the band. The
Indians are supposed to have come from
Scnora
AMBASSADOR OF
CHILE RESIGNS
Washington. D. C Jan. 14. Eduardo
Suarez Mujica. Chilean ambassador to
the United States, has resigned and
will leave his post here in March or
April to return to Chile.
DltAZII. HEDCCES DUTIES
OX SOSIE V. S. PRODUCTS
Rio Janiero, Brazil. Jan. 14. The
president has signed a decree reducing
the Import duty on a number of North
American products. The new duties,
which are in effect from January 1
of the present year, show reductions
from the tariffs now in force on flour,
condensed milk, articles of rubber and
many other articles.
ALPINE II IS S
LAIN IN RIS ROE
ALPINE. Texas. Jan 14 a D.
Beach a sewing machine lagent
of Alpine, was shot and instantly
i nled at his home here last night at 8
O lock by an unknown assassin.
II r Bearh was sitting at the table.
hi the fire playing dominoes with his
wife and children when a bullet fired
- -' t- .w,v window, struck him
in the back of the neck and severed
the spinal cord
So far the sheriff has been unable
to obtain any evidence warranting an
arrest for the crime.
Beach had been here several yearsi
was a law-abiding citizen and is not
known to have any enemies.
The funeral took place this after
noon "
travel. Brideres were destroyed by the
French not only at Demir Hissar, on
the Strum, near Zerres, but also at Ki
llndir, south of Doiran All the bridges
destroyed were in Greek territory.
Montenegro May Have to Yield.
The rumors that Austria and Monte
negro have suspended hostilities for
the purpose of discussing arrangements
whereby further warfare on Montene
grin soil should be stopped, may be
based simply on the fact that the Aus
trian advance In Montenegro has be
come so slow that suspicion of a sus
pension of hostilities is naturally
aroused Military critics, however, are
of the opinion that Montenegro is now
In such a position that some form of
arrangements with her adverasry has
become imperative.
Little News From East Front
News of the developments In the
military operations in Gallcia and Bes
sarabia is awaited with much Interest
here and it is observed that both
sides are unusually reticent with re
gard to the operations.
The Austrian military authorities af
firm that the sole result of the Rus
sian offensive to date has been the
pushing back of one Austrian battal
ion for a few hundred yards.
-I
AUSTRIA-IIUXGARr LACKS
COAL, LIGHTS .VXD G.VS
Zurich. Switzerland, Jan. 14. Cook
ing with gas has been forbidden In
Vienna, Austria-Hungary. A large part
of the nation is suffering from lack of
coal. In Budapest, electric lighting of
the streets has been suspended and in
dividuals have been notified they might
soon expect the cutting off of their
electric supply.
FORMER STRIKER ADSIITS
BEING TRESCXT AT FIGHT
Castle Rock. Colo.. Jan. 14. William
Hulsey, a former striking coal miner,
and one of 72 Indicted by the county
jury in connection with the killing of
MaJ. P. P. Lester, testified for the pros
ecution today at the trial of four form
er strikers charged with murder in
connection with the killing of the mi
litia officer during the battle or the
Hog Back.
Hulsey said he was a member of a
party of about 75 armed strikers en-
ircntneu ueiuiia me HOg Back dur.
part of the battle.
result a number of them were
placed under arrest
Trouble Brewinc
While the actual mob disorder be
gan with the attack upon the two
Mexicans at San Antonio and Broad
way, the disturbance had been brew
ing all through the afternoon-and the
evening. A fight had taken place be
fore tne Majestic theater on Broadway
and the patrol wagon had begun mak
ing runs as early as 7 oclock. return
ing to the stations with Mexicans that
had been attacked and civilians who
had entered into the disturbances
It was not until after 9 oclock, how
ever, that the trouble started.
Capt. IlnlTs Statement.
"We were determined that the sol
dier should not lead the mob down
into the lower part of the city," said
Capt Hall. "They were determined
that they would get down there ami
clean it up.
wasting of an instant
Baskin May Be Delayed.
The main difficulty In the path of
Baskin is said to be the reported falling
back of Carranza troops before Argu
medo's reported advancing Tnnm.nt
lup from Escalon. and the congestion
rttiiipau equipment, ana tracks at the
Escalon junction may hold Baskin up
Coming out on Quigleys special, due
to arrive in Juarez tonight are the
employes, all of them, of the American
Smelting and Refining company, the
El Totosl company, the Buena Tierra
company and every other corporation
and indiivdual mining concern in that
uisirict.
Will Be Rushed Across Hirer
United States federal officers In El
Paso Friday morning started negotia
tions with Gen. Gabriel Gavira. across
the river, to 'have the mining men's
special brought across the Rio Grande
to El Paso for unloading, and switch
engines from the El Paso yards will
be sent to Juarez to bring them over
quickly.
Baskin's train from the Parral dis
trict is looked for here by Sunday
night
Wires to Parral Down.
Communication with Parral has not
been had from El Paso since last Mon
day. Wires rushed into the district
from here have brought no response.
It Is known here that Carranza offi
cials have held up messages on the
way to the border from Chihuahua city
and below, and a suppression of the
news and American telegrams from
Parral and Chihuahua city to El Paso
is charged.
GENS. CALLES AND DIEGUEZ
ARE REPORTED QUARRELING
Douglas, Ariz.. Jan. 14. Arrivals
from Nogales, Son- report a serious
misunderstanding between Gen p
Elias Calles. military governor of
Sonora, and Gem-M. M. Dieguez, who
IS in command OI me lurces cam
paigning against the Yaqui Indians.
ti,a ......, i i. eaM tn have reached a
Starr uhorn n break In their relations I fino iclmlnm fnr h
Is regarded as imminent I through all these distressing and har-
Troops ander jtrincisco ijo aim rowing experiences." said the mayor,
Jose Trujlllo, Yaqui leaders, which -now "and I hope that we shall not lose our
form a part of Gen. Dieguez-s forces. ' beads at this late hour."
are said to be discontented over al- Movie Man Busy.
leged depreciation in Carranza money I a moving picture operator appeared
ai tne corner oi Ban Antonio and Ore-
placed in jaiL P. Labrado. A. Domin-
guez and L. Camilla, were docketed on
charges of carryir- pistols, while Ro
man Gutierrez was taken into custody
with a bayonet from a Mauser rifle on
his person.
Several hundred people packed the
streets at Overland and Broadway at
7:45 oclock when A. Fisher, became em
broiled In a fight with a Mexican la
borer. The crowd was dispersed with
considerable difficulty by the officers,
Fisher being taken to the city jail.
Juarez Troops Wanted to Cross River.
The Juarez garrison at one time Fri
day night threatened to cross the Ro
Grande into the south end of EI Paso,
to protect the lives of Mexicans here
Thi? is the report from one of the of
ficials in the railroad employ in Juarez.
The movement agitated among the
troops was one which had its origin in
accounts carried over trie river telling
of rioting and attacks aga'nst Mexicans
here. Reports of killing Mexicans were
WASHINGTON. D. C, Jan. 14.
There la no present intention
of the administration to inter
vene in Mexico as a result of the mur
der of American raining men in Chi
huahua by Mexican bandits. This was
made fairly definite today following a.
conference between president Wilson
and chairman Stone of the senate for
eign relations committee. It is indi
cated that only acute developments will
bring about a change in the attitude
of the Washington government.
Chairman Stone, after conferring
with president Wilson, said he was
gathering Information of the adminis
tration's attitude with which to meet
attacks in the senate.
No Intervention. Unless Forced.
Senator Stone said, after his confer
ence, he did not expect American troops
would be sent into Mexico unless there
were further developments to force it
He considered that the. Villa element,
enraged by the recognition of Carranza,
was determined to attack Americans to
force intervention. He plainly indi
cated that the administration will look
to Carranza to control the situation and
punish bandits.
Senator Stone saw there was no pres-
oironiiitMi m inaroT -imnno rh trrwn ent intention of calling a meeting of tb
and although Gen. Gavira had nothing foreign relations committee to consider
to do with it feeling ran so strong that
arrangements were begun to get the
arms in the cuartel and start for El
Paso.
BISBEE FEARS FOR THREE
AMERICANS WHO LEFT THERE
Bisbee friends of Charles Townsend,
Nicholas Donovan and John Met calf,
who are said to have left that city
with the announced intention of join
ing the party of Americans In El Paso
to leave for Cusihuiriaehic, fear for
their fate also. Nothing is known of
these men having joined the party here,
in fact it is generally understood that
all men who left El Paso in the Cusi
party have been accounted for all of
- -. w " .. ...-. .. "-r l uinii um uui wut a ne uiauee men
oome iurn nappeueu nuu . xta.y nave leit lor Chihuahua later, but
the crowd began moving northward.
When we got them going Into San An
tonio street we knew that the night
was saved. By that time the first
company arrived from the 16th infan
try camp."
Mayor Arrives.
At 10 oclock mayor Tom Lea In his
automobile and Capt L. L. Hall in an
other made an auto tour of East El
Paso and the southern part of the city.
Everything was quiet The Mexican
population had withdrawn to their
homes. Only in a few homes did lights
burn. If any groups were gathered In
the lower part of the city these groups
were In front of the home doors.
Mayor Lea was acquainted with the
tense situation while at the home of
Gen. Huerta. He got into his machine
and hurried to the police station where
he was told of the circumstances of
the mob and how it had been quieted.
He then rode up to San Antonio and
Oregon street, where he got out of his
car and talked with a number of per
sonal friends, urging them to go home
"Keep lour Heads."
"There Is no need to make a talk
now that the people are in order." said
the mayor, "but it was my full inten
tion to appeal to them to maintain or
der had I found conditions as I feared
thev were before I got down town.
We have been patient and shown a
past five years
nothing appears to be known of it if
they did.
the pending resolutions proposing in
ference in Mexico. White house of
ficials indicated, that the resolution of
senator Lewis, of Illinois, the Demo
cratic whip, authorizing the president
to use the armed forces, was introduced
without their knowledge.
"Monstrous to Intervene."
"It would be monstrous for the
United States to go to war in Mexico,
at such a time as this," declared
senator Stone after his return to the
capital. "I was the original war man
in the senate when there was no or
ganized government recognized by this
country. But now we hare recognized
a government and it would be absurd
if we were to rush in without giving
that government a chance to suppress
and punish the bandit bands which.
have murdered American citizens.
"We know these bandits are seek
(Cantinaeir m rage 3. Cot 1).
with which they are being paid.
No Mass Meeting;
Arrangements Called Off
rTT HERE will be no mass meeting in El Paso today to discuss and
denounce the killing of the 18 Americans at Santa Ysabel.
Those who had proposed the meeting decided that it would
be better not to hold it at this time, in view of the tension now existing.
This decision met with the support and approval of the mayor and city
council, who had proposed a conservative course.
Instead, the, meeting decided to bend its efforts towards getting
Americans out of Mexico, and special trains to bring them to the bor
der will be arranged for at once.
Chas. F. Hunt, ex-governor George Curry, of New Mexico; R.
Burt Qmdorff, president of the chamber of commerce; Harm Walthall,
and R. M. Dudley were appointed a committee to act with other
Americans in El Paso who are working to get Americans out of Mexico.
This committee conferred with mayor Lea shortly before noon and
assured him that the meeting would not be held. The committee will
take steps to call the mass meeting at some future date, if it is deemed
advisable.
Imprisonment Caused the Death of Huerta; Who Accepts the Responsibility?
t
.iddk
