Ti
MON
ETT
1MB
JJL
An Advertisement m the Times Brings Results
Weekly Edition Vol. 17, No. 19
MONETT, MISSOURI. ,' F3TDAY, JANUARY 14, 191G
i
Daily Edition Vol. 8, No. 164
E
i.
a
.f;
ft;;
m i '
i
)
;!.."
i
SAYS PEACE WAITS
ON UNITED STATES
Conference Assured if America Con
" sents, Mis Addams Avers
Washington, Jan. 11. Speakers
for the Woman's Peace Party, headed
by Miss Jane Addams of Chicago,
pleaded with the Senate and House
committees on foreign relations today
to enlist the strength of the United
States to help end the European war.
' Miss Addams told the committees
all Europe was-ready for peace, the
- belligerent nations most of all, II it
could be gained for them without sac
rifice of dignity and standing. Five
. European neutrals Holland, Switaer-
.land, Norway, Sweden and Denmark
had assured her, she said, they would
participate in a peace conference of
, . neutral nations if called by the United
States, and two of them promised to
. call such a conference if assured that
the United States would participate.
Beside Miss Addams, Mfes Sophron
icka Breckrenridge of Chicago, Mrs.
Crystal Eastman Benedict, Mrs . Lucia
Ames Mead and Miss Zona Gale ad
dressed the , House committee in the
; morning and repeated " their ' ' state-1
; ments to the senators in the afternoon,
v They urged adoption of a joint re-
solution introduced by Representative
j Curry which woulS empower the Pres
v idcnt to invite all nations to send dele
... gates to a convention to provide for
SLAYING Of AMERI
CANS STARTS AGAIN
TALK INTERVENTION
Lopez and Reyna, Villa Generals, Led
Attack. ' Congress Discussing
Intervention
THE GOVERNMENT REST-. PARCEL POST USED MAYOR ANNOUNCES
ED IN MENACE CASE!'
FOR MARKETING HE'LL BE CANDIDATE
Judge Van Valkenburgh's Rulings On
Two Points Favorable to Pros-ecution
Washington, D. C, Jan. 13. The Governor Says He Will Seek Demo
farmer who wishes to sell his products I cratic Nomination for Vice Presi- -
by parcel post, and the housewife who I
dent or Senator
El Paso, Tex., Jan. 12. Pablo Lo
pez, a Yaqui chief, and General Reyr
na, both Villa generals, led the men
who assassinated a group
pan miners on Monday near Santa
Ysabel, Mexico, and the massacre was
...VJ wishes to use this method of securing!
' Joplin, Jan. 13. The government country produce for her table, will find '
case against the Menace Publishing i nianJr useful points in Farmers' Bulle
Company and W. F. Pjielps, Bruca! tion 703, "Suggestions for Parcel Post
Phelps, Marvin Brown and Theodore J Marketing." This bulletin, in addi-
of Ameri-; C. lVa!ker, or sending alleged QU-' t,on to explaining the postal rates and
scene matter through United States, : measurement limits for parcel post
Washington, D. C, Jan. 11. Gov.
Elliott W. Major of Missouri author-
APPORTIONMENT OF
$334,188.31 MADE
Barry County Schools to Receive Ad
dtional $2,291.12.. Cassville and
Purdy Schooh $97.93 Each
State Superintendent Howard A.
j Gass has sent to County Clerk Jeffries
ized the announcement today that he j and Superintendent Hankins the sup-
would be a candidate either for the
Democratic nomination for Vice Pres
ilent at the St. Louis convention next
mails, was completed in United States matter, discusses- in some 'detail the ! June' or for Unitel States Senator.
committed close in the wake of a Car-' district court here yesterday '.'.after-1 types of containers which are most j The Govcrnor did not 8ay whether
ranza troop train, according to infor- j noon. The government scored heavily,, .successful and the methods of grading 1 he would P0Se for re-nomina-
mation of the affair gathered tonight, j during the day against the defendants; and packing produce, so that it will J tlon if he failed win second place
Statements made by J. Guadelup Gar- j gaining two distinct advantages in i reach the consumer in good condition,
dena, conductor of a train bearng the jrulings of Judge Arba S. Van Valken- j an(t be attractive in quality and ap
Americans, and Thomas B. Holmes, 1 burgh. , jpearace. In treating standards for
the only known survivor of the Ameri- j Judge Van Vallcenburgh defined and : parcel post shipments, the bulletin
can party, indicate that the murder of restricted sections of newspapers an((l , tes bow to select, handle and pack
the United States citizens was delib- books that ere alleged to be obscene in ' 1 poultry, and how to grade and pack
erate. j part, and with a pencil definitely out- the various fruits and vegetables
It also was learned that the total lined the parts that might be read to ' which the average farmer is likely to
number of foreigners slain numbered the jury. j market through-the post office,
nineteen. The bodies are on the way j As they were read, the sections were ! The bulletin points out that one of
to El Paso from Chihuahua, west of, more extended than those quoted in I tlle common obstacles to establishing
which city the massacre took place. the indictment against the five per-! Pal'cel post communication between
Conductor Gardena; in an official af-! sons and interests, but they fell, far j farmer and consumer is that the farm
fidavit given to the British consul at short in most instances of being the er mav be unwilling to offer goods at j
Chihuahua, said the train bearing the , complete copies of the newspapers or a price which attracts the customer, or
Americans was stopped by a derailed books, or of being complete copies of j tna the consumer may offer a price
train in a cut. This train is said to the articles in which the alleged ob-1 lower than the farmer can obtain at a
on the Democratic national ticket. He
piementary liyt of school moneys ap
portioned from the $334,189.31 which
the Supreme Court has ordered turned
back to the school fund of the state!
According to the apportionment
made out by Mr. Gass, Barry county
school districts are to receive as their
share of this money, $2,291.12.' This
have been part of the equipment? bear
ing Carranza troops. The conductor
scene reading matters appear. " ' ,
The government also won a point
local market.
"Not only
To quote, the bulletin:
must the farmer have
said that General Reyna held' the , when Judge Van Valkenburgh i refused , something additional to the usual
disarmament, create an international j trainmen under guard while the Amer- .. to admit as evidence other books or price to compensate him for the extra
legislature, court, army and police, j cans were robbed and shot to death, f papers or testimony concerning other j wrk, container, and postage required,
ROB OKLAHOMA BANK OF $3,500
Those who were wounded in the first books that might be used to establish I Dut tfle consumer must also have
Two Unmasked Bandits Locked Three
" in a Vault at Keileyville
a degree of obscenity by which the something to attract him to market
alleged obscene passages cited in the I 'nK by parcel post. In determining
fusillade later were shot dead.
Details obtained tonight were to the
effect that a score of Mexican armed indictment could be judged by o the ; wnat the price shall be, both the farm
men attacked the train . which was
bearing the mining men to mines
jurors.
There was a bit. (jf "sunshine, how-
price and the retail price paid by the
consumer when he markets in the ordi
nary way should be taken into consid
eration. The consun er must receive
; Sapulpa,". Ok., Jari; 11. Two un
masked bandits entered the bank, of owned by the estate of Potter. Palmer ever, in the proceeding's fbrthe.'.Men
KSaiw4?ll8 thlJtrnJu 'and Qr4..,r7-j8 ThoieWere some 200 ; ace four, 'for considerable . testimony
the cashier, P, P. Harvey, to put up other bandits, grouped "as i a reserve j Vas placed before the jury concewSifl".' either-a better articie. at the usual rc
his hands, and while one guarded the; force along the right of way of the the activities of Roman-Catholics to- j tail priie or an article of the gia le
prisoner, his companion swept all the ; railroad. . Jward having prosecution started , usually purchased at some concession
available currency in a sack. ! All of the bodies are' expected to ! against the Menace. in price.
did say, however, that he proposed to does not include $97.93 each addition-
run for one or the other office. al fund to the Cassville and Purdy
As the State nominating primaries j schools and $48.99 conditionally to
in Missouri will not be held until Au-! Wheaton.
gust it will be possible for the Gov- j The apportionment is dated from
ernor to try for both places. His the State Superintendent's office, De
friends here, however, believe he will ' cember 28, 1915.
center his efforts on one office. Which j The county court will now have to
one, they do not attempt to predict, j make a requisition for the money. As
Folk returned yesterday from a fly-j the court meets the first Monday in
ing visit to St. Louis and Chicago on : February that will be as soon as the
business of the commission. Today : requisition can now be made. The
rumors reached Missourians that the money will be received and apportion
Folk contingent back home was pre-ed here among the school districts
paring to offer him-as a candidate for j about the middle or perhaps about the
Vice President, if they could not in
duce him to run for Governor.
No statement of any kind was forth
coming from Folk. He indicated in
terest when told of Gov. Major's state
ment, but did not comment.
R. G. SALYER RETIRES
20th of February. Cassville Republican.
Hon. R. G. Salyer, president of the
Barry County Bank of Cassville, after tured by J
twenty years in the banking business 1 Etcher of bank robbers and criminals
Lionel Hulsey and Cleo Northcutt
were quietly married by Squire Hul
sey, father of the groom, at B. P.
Northcutt's home, father of the bride.
The young couple intended to give
their friends and folks the sb'p and be
quietly married but they were ?ap-
C. Fawver, the famous
in Barry County, retired the first of
the new year. ;
Mr. Salyer is one of the best known
and ' mast highly esteemed men of
Barry county, a true-blue Democrat
and quietly marched back home where
they were obliged to face a crowd of
waiting friends and relatives. The
young folks are both at good families
and highly respected and can each
Two customers, J. H. Romine and; reach E1 Paso about midnight tonight.
M. D. Lobe, entered the door just as : According to reports, each of the bod
the bandits were about to leave and ies bears a buI,et wound in the fore
they with the cashier were locked in! head' in addition to other wounds.
the vault. The robbers made their' Jt was authoritatively stated here
ARNOLD CHAPEL
getaway on horseback
$3,500 and $3,600.
with between 'ae today that the troops which at
' tacked the train and murdered the
j foreigners were in charge of General
COLDEST WEATHER OF WINTER Pablo Lopez, a Yaqui chieftain closely
Wednesday night the temperature allied with General Francisco Villa.
I "It is probable that the point which
will make the strongest appeal to the
j average consumer is that he can se-
To the miny friends everywhere j cure by parcel post a fresher, bright
and also our good neighbors, who so er more attractive,- and thus possibly
kindly rendered us such valuable aYid i a better product than he can obtain
kindly assistance both during and '. otherwise.
since our house burned, we wish to ex-j "Tlie average-producer, as a rule,
press our deepest heartfelt gratitude : ('0s not realize the importance of ap
Not only are we profoundly grateful pearance as a factor in scllirg goods
i i ii j. i, -.. , i
uw puny ana me state ; congratulate themselves on the choice
in the Missouri legislature.
The state of his health and the fact .
that he is 70 years of age, are the rea
sons for his retirement.
The proprietor of
pleased to number Mr.
of his warm personal
friends.
the Times is ;
Salyer as one ;
and political '
they have made. Many friends wish
them a happy journey down the river
of life. Seligman Item in Cassville
Republican.
MEN
dropped to 4 below zero by the tested About twenty bandits attacked the for material assistance; money, bod- anl frequqently is careless and indif-
ding, clothing but the loving kindly : ferent in preparing produce for mar
spirit in which all seemed to havej6- Tlie consumer, on the other
been done increases our appreciation ! hand, relies very largely upon ap
and gratitude beyond our powers of j pearance in selecting food supplies,
expression We shall carry in our hearts j a"d unattractive articles are passed
the precious memory of your kindness ! by promptly.
thermometers. Other thermometers train, it was said, while two hundred
went as low as 8 below7. Water pipes were grouped as a reserve to one side
in many houses are frozen or bursted f the right of way.
If not why not trade at the C. & C
Grocery. Phone 400.
i When you need good shoes to with
stand wear conic in and let Gulick's
fit your feet and purse. Longest shoe
stock in town. tf
so the plumbers will be busy for a few
days.
E. E. Meador is a member of the
Federal petit jury at Joplin this week.
Thomas B. Holmes, the only for
eign survivor of the massacre, reach
ed the bder here about noon today.
He was in a state of nervous and near
mental collapse. .,',..
while we live.
Rev. P. M. Shipley and Family.
CONDENSED OFFICIAL STATEMENT -
OF THE CONDITION OF THE
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
Monett, Missouri
At the close of Business, December 31, 1915 '
RESOURCES
Loans and Discounts ;.... $322, 475. 92
U. S. Bond s 50.0W.00
Other Bonds.
Banking House......
Other Real Estate
Stock in Federal Reserve Bank.
Due from U. S. Treasury .
Cash and Doe from other banks
7,960.00
.. 23,190.00
2,755.00
1,800 00
2,500 00
133,903 18
$544,674.10
LIABILITIES
Capital Surplus . . .........$ 60,240.04
National Banking Currency ... 50,000.00
Due Depositors 434 434 06
$544,674.10
Stockholders Additional Liabilities 50,000.00
$594,674.10
I "A personal acquaintance should be
established between producer and con
sumer, when they come into business
I contact. This will help a great deal
j in furthering parcel post marketing,
j and also ill eliminate many of the
(misunderstandings, which 'may occur
from time to time. A definite under
j standing should exist as to the duties :
of each in regard to remittances,
. claims for damaged or spoiled pro-
j duce, and the preservation and return
of containers." j
l"SS..
State of Missouri, ) '
County op Barry, Is
I, Willis W. Lehnhard, Cashier of the above named bank, do solemnly swear that above
statement is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
I ; , " Wilus W. Lehnhard, Cashier
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 10th day of January, 1916. "
'.- : Sig Solomon, Notary Public.
I SEAL , My Commission expires January 11th. 1917.
. C. C. Mills j 1
, V O.H. Hudson K Directors.
Carl W. Lehnhard
STORM DAMAGES
TELEPHONE LINES
The ice 'and sleet has done much
damage to the telephone lines. In
Monett there are 100 telephones out
of order. The toll lines are all out of
use except a line to Peirce City and
one to Aurora. No message has been
able to get from Monett to Joplin or
Springfield since Wednesday morning.
The rural lines with a few exceptions,
are in good condition.
m
feT. t JSysC-i- r '- .
"FUNERAL SERVICES THURSDAY
Funeral services for Alvey Mulkey,
who died at his home north of Monett,
Wednesday morning, were held at Lib
erty church Thursday' afternoon. Rev.
L. A. Smith had charge of the services.
Mr. Mulkey was 30 years old and
leaves a family. He had been ill for
a long time with glandular tubercu
NEW 1916 PATTERNS
in baby carriages now on display at this store.
This line is unusually large and extensive
, and includes many hew patterns in su kies.
folding go-carts and reed carriages.
' Payments may be arranged.
We welcome your inspection.
losis. . v .' '.
