THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 257.
RARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 191C.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
CETTINJE HAS
BEEN CAPTURED
BY AUSTRIANS
Capital of Montenegro Is
Now in the Hands of Aus
tria and the Whole Nation
Appears to Have Fallen a
Victyn to Teutonic Rush
VIENNA REPORTS
IMPORTANT CONQUEST
Austrian Fleet Said to Have
Been Brought Before Cat
taro and Complete Doml
nation of Adriatic Sea Ap
pears to Be the Purpose
of Vienna Government
Vienna, via London, Tatf 14. The cap
ture of Cettinje, the capital of Monte
negro, was announced to-day by the war
office.
London, Jan. 14. It was authoritative
ly announced to-day that the reported
offensive of the Teutonic allies against
Saloniki did not occur. The rumor that
the attack had been begun against the
allies forces apparently originated in the
activity of the French in blowing up the
bridges connecting Saloniki with the road
over which the attackers would normally
(travel.
Speculation is rife as to the attitude
Italy is adopting with regard to the in
vasion of Montenegro by Austria, which
constitutes a gTave menace to Italian interests.
News of the development of operations
in Galida and Bessarabia is awaited with
much interest.
. On the western front ram storms have
interfered with the operations and only
isolated artillery, hand grenade and mine
engagements have taken place, according
to Berlin.
Ixmdon, Jan. 14. A wireless from
Rome reiterating the report of an armis
' tice between Austria and Montenegro
states that it was Austria which pro
posed the cessation of hostilities with
the purpose of negotiating a separate
peace.
Whether King Nicholas will continue
the unequal struggle is considered doubt
ful here, but the accepted view among
the best posted men in London is that
Montenegro has virtually passed under
Austrian control. The chief significance
of -this does not lie in the small terri
torial acquisition, which is less than
Serbia, but in Montenegro's Adriatic
front, lying alongside the Austrian main
offensive naval staion of Cattaro, where
HUERTA, EX-DICTATOR
OF MEXICO, DEAD
He Died at 1 Paso, Texas, Last Night
He Was Surrounded by Members
of His Family Cause of
Schlerosis of the Liver. ,
El Paso, Tex., Jan. 14. Victorii.no
Huerta, former dictator of Mexico, died
here lust night.
General Huerta, who succeeded Gen
eral Franciitco I. Madero in executive
power in Mexico City and later left
Mexico, died of schlerosis of the liver.
Ho was surrounded by his family when
the etui came. His death was not un
exiected. General Yictoriano Huerta was a pro
fessional soldier, and as such he had, up
to the overthrow of President Francisco
Madero, been known for his loyal sup
port of the existing governments. He
fought loyally for President I'orfuio Dial
until his fall, and when Diaz was no
longer chief executive, Huerta fought
for Francinco de la Barra, the provisional
president. After Francisco Madero was
elected, Huerta found it not to be his
duty to support one who had so long
fought as a rebel. His loyalty was not
challenged until the Felix Vim revolu
tion in Mexico City in February, 1913,
when the Madera government was com-
pletly overthrown and Huerta himself
elevated to the presidency.
Huerta devoted himself to the military
career at a very early age. Born at Chi
huahua in 1854, he entered the military
academy of Chapultepec at the age of 17
and passed through the full course to
graduation in 1875, when he was com
missioned second lieutenant of engineers.
During his academic term he was known
for his prediction for scientific studies,
particularly astronomy and mathematics.
When Porfirio Diaz begun his reorgan
STRUCK MINE,
SET ON FIRE
Dutch Steamer Maashaven
Sank and Part of Crew
Were Killed
BODIES OF EIGHT
MEMBERS ARRIVE
A Despatch to Lloyds Says
That Others Were
Saved
London, Jan. 14. The Dutch steam
ship Princess Juliana arrived at Graves
end to-dav, bringing the bodies of the
captain and seven members of the crew
of the Dutch steamer Maashaven which
was abandoned on tire after striking a
mine. A Lloyd's dispatch from Rotter
dam says the other members of the
crew were saved.
The Downs, that portion of the North
sea off the east coast of Kent between
Kamsgate and South Foreland, is filled
with ships bound for Rotterdam which
have not been permitted to proceed on
their voyages, British ships are forbid
den to continue their voyage to Hol
land and neutral vessels are not being
given the course by the admiralty.
J n official circles it is said that toe
stoppage is due to the danger of Gcr
izatton of the Mexican army, Huerta was
:.. --.I ..,1.!1
H,U U Hl.. ... "'""'I,,,,,,, ,(lin(,8 Whil.h thp a,(0 J,ave heen
holding this rank devised the plan for i . . . f, , .
a 1avii n nnnnral atuff mrm Via Wil ! . '
juvj ii iii iui Dvnu v.i a a j .
an active member of the military map
commission created to draft a staff map
of Mexico on a large scale and he had
charge of all the astronomical work of
the commission, lending exploring par
ties over the wildest regions of the
wildest regions of the republic.
During the ensuing" years Huerta saw
much active service. In 1001 he left the
staff and took command of the infantry
in the campaign against the laqui In
dians. After this campaign he was again
put in charge of the general staff s topo
graphical work in Sonora. He partici
pated in subsequent laqui campaigns
and also in the campaign in liicatan
against the Maya Indians. As a reward
for his Indian service Huerta was given
the rank of brigadier-general and once
more detailed to the general staff.
Huerta commanded all the detached
government forces in the state of Guer
rero at the beginning of the Mndero rev
olution. When Madero acceded to the
presidency, General Huerta was sent
back into Morelos with a force to put
down the Zapata rebellion. As a result
of ill-feeling growing out of this cam
psign Huerta was recalled. Subsequent
ly he led the army sent against Orozeo
and was in command at the battle of
Bachimba. -For this service he was pro
moted to major-general. He was then
recalled to the capital and given leave
of absence because of an affection of
the eyes, and thus did not take part in
the suppression of the first uprising led
by General Felix Diaz in October, 1912.
In the second Felix Diaz revolution,
which resulted in the overthrow of the
Madero government, Huerta was imme
diately called to active command as the
senior ranking general, then in the capi
tal. He escorted Madero from Chapul
tepeo castle to the palace on the first
tire Austrian fleet, including three dread
noughts, is assembled, and from which
the recent naval raid was made against
Italian transports going to the relief of
.Serbia.
This further extension of Austria's
Adriatic front with the dominating na
val center of Cattaro is viewed as fur
ther tending toward the realization of
Austria's object of making the Adriatic
an Austrian sea and thus checking Italy's
ambition to make it an Italian sea.
Italy had so much at stake that offi
cials and diplomats had been waiting
anxiously for the steps Italy would take
to relieve Montenegro and at the same
time avert another Austrian extension
on the Adriatic. They were aware that
Italy had once before prevented Austria
from gaining territorial concessions irom
Montenegro near Cattaro by emphatical
ly objecting to the treaty made in 1012.
As Italy was then a member of the triple
alliance, Austria reluctantly yielded to
the Italian objection.
It was believed that dynastic reasons
would play a part in Italy's assistance
of Montenegro, an King Nicholas' daugh
ter is the wife of the king of Italy, but
help from that quarter did not arrive,
as the Italian expedition was landed
further south, in Albania, and has not
been heard from since.
The London Times asserts that Italy's
interests in Montenegro are as important
as England's in the opening of the Dar
danelles and that the prospective anni
hilation of Montenegro will have far
yesterday's dispatches announced the en-.of the ten days'. lighting and was placed
in entire command of the forces of the
government. He directed the govern
ment troops during all the subsequent
fighting, and the conduct of these opera
tions led to severe criticism on the part
of Madero's friends. It was ( charged
that he did not carry out the operations
with any spirit, that he disobeyed the
commands of President Madero, and that
before General Blanquet entered the city
it was this conference which sealed the
fate of the Maderos.
Huerta was the moving spirit in the
consumption of the plot that resulted in
the seizure of the person of President
Madero and his brother, Uustave.
The assassination of President Madero
and hia brother followed and in the
'meantime Huerta, with the military be-
mnd mm, had been recognized as the
provisional president.
the vessels will not be allowed to pro
ceed until the mines have been swept
up.
Among the detained ships are several
belonging to the commission for the re
lief of Belgium,, and it is feared that
if they are delayed much longer there
will be a shortage of Belgian relief food.
CATHEDRAL BURNED
FROM FALLING CANDLE
Building In Sora, Italy, Was Occupied by
People, Who Were Holding a Memorial
Service No One Was Injured.
DAIRYMEN TO WATCH
VERMONT SOLONS
H. K. Brooks of St. Albans Was Elected
President of Association at Final
Session of Convention in
Burlington.
Burlington, Jan. 14. At the closing
session of the 4ttfh annual convention of
the Vermont Dairymen's association late
yesterday If. K. Brooks of St. Albans
was elected president for the ensuing
year. Other ollicers elected are as fol
lows: First vice-president," O. L. Martin
of Plainficld j second vice-president, H.
13. I urtis of St. Albans; secretary, F. H.
Hick lord or JSradiord; treasurer, SI. A.
Adams of Derby auditor, F. L. Davis of
Hartford.
Resolutions Adopted.
The resolutions as presented bv the
committee, Dean J. L. JHIls, A. T. Curtis
and Benjamin Tucker, were unanimous
ly adopted. They referred to the deaths
of James K. Curtis, late of Georgia, who
was for several yeat during the '!0s
secretary of the association, and of Mel
vin II. Miller, late of Randolph, who was
the eldest son of a pioneei" in the work
of the association, and himself an active
member as long as his health permitted
Acknowledgement was made of the
courtesies extended by the hotels, rail
roads, press and citizens of the city of
Burlington.
Note was made of the working of the
federal enactments in regard to oleomar
garine, which seems to be progressing
well from the point of view of the dairy-
en. ,
Pleasure was expressed at the news of
the coming of the national dairy show
to the hast, bringing to Springfield,
Mass., the exhibition of the best in dairy-
ng, and moral support to the show, as
well ns to the national dairy council in
its advancement of the cause of dairying
in America, was pledged and the prop
osition that the state dairy association
affiliate with it in its endeavors was
AMERICANS
. ARE ALL SAFE
BOARD OF TRADE WORK
CLEARLY OUTLINED
Those in Mexico City Get a
Report to State Department
SECOND MASSACRE
IS FIRMLY DENIED
Professor Alfred(I. Smith of Tuck School,
Dartmouth College, Addressed Barra
Board of Trade at Vincitia Club
Last Evening.
Essentials in the successful pursuit of
civic, commercial, industrial and agri
cultural development were expounded in
luminous fashion by Professor Alfred I.
Smith of the Tuck school of admitiistra
tion and finance, Dartmouth college, be
fore a gathering of more than 100 mem
bers of the Barre Board of Trade and
their guests in the rooms of the Vincitia
club last evening. While the speaker
stood up and clearly indicated some of
U.S. MARINE
WAS DETAINED,
BY BRITISH
vr Do4i'fc? Ailrn1-aA tne avenues through which success may
Mexican JjanuUS AliaCKeu be attained in co-operative community
Colony but Were
Beaten Off .
Washington, D. C, Jan. 14. All Amer
icans at Mexico City are reported safe in
official dispatches to-day to the state de
partment which specifically deny the
reported murder of 10 Americans and
two English women. The colony was
attacked by bandits, who were routed.
General Almeida Shot.
The capture of General Jose Rodriguez,
General Almeida, and several other Villa
chieftains by Carranza forces near Ma
dera, was announced last night in dis
patches from El Paso to the state de
partment and the Mexican embassy. Al-
effort, the first step in the rejuvenation
of the local organization was being ao
complished, for the audience listened
most attentively and Bfter J'rotessor
Smith had concluded his remarks, there
seemed to 1ms a general feeling that the
very excellent suggestions received are
well worth using.
The smoke talk, for such it was, and
wholly informal, too, served to bring to
gether some of the men who have been
the wheel horses in the Board of Trade
movement hereabouts in the past. Then,
too, the message brought by the speaker
had the effect of reawakening interest in
the organization among people who prob
obly never realized its latent possibili
ties in the past. If. G. Woodruff intro
duced the speaker and after the latter
had finished, an open forum was declared
and queries concerning board of trade
methods were freely made. Cigars were
meida was shot immediately the mes
sage to the embassy said, and summary passed around during the evening and
execution of Rodriguez had been ordered aner me smoKe iaiK, a suosianiiai uiu
bv General Gaviera. commandinc the fet luncheon was served.
garrison at Juarez, I Professor Smith, prctaced Ins remarks
Carranza to-Hav telerranhcd li is am- a onei description oi meuious em
bassador here eavlnir: "The murderous ployed in large chambers of commerce,
committed to the executive committee, attack on a passenger train near Chi- citing several cities where community
with power to act. i huahua was made bv the only remaining organizations are successfully carried on
Yl. - ... ll f II . . . . ' . .
i up cornmiir.ee on agriculture oi me band of outlaws in that region
Albert Clark of the Fifth'
U. S. Infantry Removed
from the Steamship Santa
Maria at Jamaica and
Held During a Rigid In
vestigation
ALL PASSENGERS V
WERE QUESr;. ED
Private Clark Arrived in
New York To-day, and He
Will Make Full Report to
the War Department of
the Occurrence, Which Is
Held to Be Serious
Rome, Jan. 14. The cathedral at Sora
was destroyed by fire yesterday while
services were in progress throughout
Italy commemorating the earthquake at
Avezzano Sora a year ago. Thn fire de
stroyed the statue of Saint Rcstitua,
Sora 's protecting saint, which was al
most the only object in the church
which had escaped uninjured in the
earthquake lust year.
During the service yesterday a candle
fell ami set fire to the altar and the
whole building was consumed.
TO RE-OPEN QUARRIES.
New Capital is Going Into Marble Bus
iness on West Side.
EDITH CA YELL'S
BETRAYER WAS
ASSASSINATED
The Body of Belgian Spy, Cels, Was
Found in Street with Two Bullet
Wounds in It.
London, Jan. 14. A dispatch to the
Daily Express from Amsterdam says:
"The Belgian spy, Cels, who denounced
Edith Cavell, the English nurse who was
executed at Brussels some time ago,
reaching maritime consequences in the ; , rm.. .3..;0j ,...,.
FRENCH REPRISAL
AGAINST TURKEY
Consists of Arrest cf Last Member of
the Turkish Embassy in Paris
His Wife and Daughter to
Be Interned.
Paris, .tan. 14. As a reprisal of the
internment of French subjects in Turk
ey, the French authorities yesterday ar
retted Said Bey, archivist of the Turk
ish embassy and the last functionary of
the embassy on duty here. His wife and
day. His body was found in a street? of
Schaerbrew near Brussels with two bul
let wounds in it.
GOVERNOR GATES TO ATTEND
Older Boys' Conference, Which Opens in
- Rutland To-night.
Rutland. Jan. 14. Over 411 delegates
already have arrived for the Older Boys'
conference, which upens here to-night,
(lovernor (Jates will be present at the
supper, which is the opening feature, to
give an address. The st tendance will
exceed 5S1.
Rutland, Jan. 14 New capital, which
will mean a great boom to the Green
Mountain Marble company and the ex
tension of this concern through the ac
quisition of marble quarries in this sec
tion, are in sight according to marble
men who are now on the inside of the
affairs of the company and although the
oflicials refuse to discuss the situation
s known that negotiations are prac
tically completed for the transfer of the
old Boardman quarry on Boardman hill
from the hands of I harles Boardman of
-'alifornia, Micajah' Odell and his son,
George II. Odell, the present owners, to
P. R. Eaton of Fitehburg, Mass., presi
dent of the marble company.
It was admitted by YV. F. See, mana
ger ot the tureen .Mountain company,
that several deals of considerable mag
nitude are pending but just what these
are he refused to say. When asked
whether or not the company was plan
ning to buy the Boardman quarry he
said the only way he could answer the
question was by saying "yes or no."
The Boardman hill quarry is situated
on Boardman hill, about a mile south
of the village of West Rutland, and it
is located on the Sutherland rails vein,
the vein worked too successfully by tile
Vermont Marble company. The quarry
was opened about 40 years ago, worked
for a year or more anil abandoned. A
man by the name of Hyatt, who was
also interested in the Manhattan works
in West Rutland, was instrumental in
opening the quarry. The marble from
this hole is white with blue markings.
New York, Jan. 14. Albert Clark, a.
private in the Fifth L'nitcd States In
fantry, was removed from the steam
ship Santa Maria at Jamaica by a Brit
ish neutrality officer, according to pas
sengers who arrived ou the Santa Maria
to-dav. After being detained ashore for
This In every town, he said, there are those several hours' he was allowed to return
Boston Chamber of Commerce was con- bund is beinir nursned bv mv trooDs with w'10 are ready to point the finger of to the ship and proceed here.
gratulated on its prestation of the a view to capture and punishment." scorn at a board of trade, but if its Clark had served seventeen months in
X'-... 1 - 1 I 1 1 1 " i l I - - I I. . 7 . . .. .1 ......
ew r.lliMllu mutt snipping situation. I c , , T a ' I mrinut-iB air pcmim-rni, mm biihc t-ai - j
The ollicers of the association were "w""l" n,M u. iiCmi. nestly to follow well-denned- lines or
empowered to appoint a committee to I Senator Works of California to-day action, the organization will soon be con-
co-operate with a like committee from introduced a resolution in the Senate I sidered as an active, dignified community j
the state grange, looking towards unified authorizing the president to intervene in asset. Confidence will not be long in
action in connection with legislative mat- Mexico to establish and maintain - the coming to it.
government there until it is safe it with- 1 here are three essentials, he said, to
draw. the success of a board of trade. The
El Paso More Quiet. first is the character of the city, not the
. ... ....... i
EI Paso. Tex.. .Ian. 14 Viwiroim ao- character ot its scenery, its industrial
tion bv the police, aided by United complexion, nor yet its commercial insti-
States soldiers, had to-dav restored or- tutions; but rather, the character ot its
.ler after thre rfava turmoil orowinir People. 1. e., its civic pride. The ldej
England states and that the expenditure out of the massacre of IS fori(n,Prs. that the individual owes everything to
of the association funds, within reason- mostly Americans, by bandit! in western"' ro"P 18 one of t,,e Daslc principles
able limits, in the interests of such a Chihuahua last Monday. To-day sen- of society. A community can be swayed
movement would be advisable. It was tries were stationed on all the principal easily as a mob and any community
resolved that, "whereas, diversity of en- streets to prevent a recurrence of the organization will do well to mould pub-
jealousies must be eliminated. Members!
should have the proper point of view
and clinging ever to the motto, "We can
accomplish anything in this town if it is I
worth while.
Officers of the board of trade must not
ecept office solely because a certain
ters. Instead of susrsdic effort.
Belief was expressed that a more per
manent committee in regard to unified
action in connection with legislative
matters affecting dairymen should be con
stituted" with the especial duty of watch
ing legislation in the three southern Newl
actment tends to distract and unity to fighting.
josier uairy interests, a oeiegote con
ference representative of the dairymen's
associations of the several states should
lie held at an early date, that the in
coming executive committee appoint the
legislative committee and report the
names at the evening banquet, this com
HURLED TO SIDEWALK.
0. D. Scribner of Montpelier Was Thrown
Out of Sleigh by Runaway Horse
W1tn liia ImrttA ficAmA f n'irhtcnirt ami
mitfee to act as delegates to the pro-jraa away, O. D. Scribner of Montpelier amount of honor attaches to a position,
poned conference of the several states! was thrown from his sleiirh on Elm nor '""'! committee members accept
and that the executive committee enrre- Utrt Mnntrwlior tn.rlnv n,l u-m .
spond with the other New England asso- dered unconscious for a time. It is not merely figureheads. Prompt payment of
ciations, asking them to appoint dele- thouuht. however, that he sustained se- dues an(1 'el?'lar attendance at meetings
gaics ro bucii a conicrencc; mat l"e I ions injury.
same committee seek the co-operation of The. horse hauled the oleii against
the agricultural committee of the Boston a poe beside the road and Mr. Scribner
vimmoer vommerce 10 onng soniii wa8 thrown heavily to the sidewalk
such a conterence, especially with a view Ridents of the vicinity, who saw the
k. iiriMgiiig consumers or mux pronucis accident, telephoned to the police sta
tion and the police, in turn, secured
Health Officer Lindsay and went to the
scene. .Mr. scribner was unconscious but
recovered consciousness before being re
to the meeting so as to, as far as pos
sible, harmonize differences; the confer
ence to be held preferably in Boston.
Banquet Last Evening.
1 he lth annual banquet of the asso
ciation, which was held in the large din
trior mmn n-f tUa Van Vaaa hnnaa lnat
evening, was a fitting climax to one of f,peed' havi,,8 irvei iUeU frora the
the most successful meetings ever hel3. 1? ' ., ..'.
Over 4(10 .niests enjoyed the excellent Mr- Scnbner about 70 years of age
meal and the speeches which followed. Bnd wa8 formerly in the mercantile bus.
The banquet hall had been attractively ne8 ln Montreller
decorated for the occasion and Lessor's
are worthy, but thev are not as impor
tant as enthusiasm and loyalty. In
dividual desires must be subordinated to
the desire of the group and members
should lie able to judge returns from
their organizations in something besides
dollars and cents. Better business con
ditions, better living conditions and bet
ter group conditions are results that
cannot be measured by the dollar sign
the canal zone and was proceeding to
Washington under orders to report to
the adjutant general and was in full
uniform when taken from the vessel
which flies the American flag. . This is
said to be the first time a United States
soldier has been removed under similar
conditions since the War of 1812.
When the Santa Maria was stopped at
Jamaica en route to New York, a British
neutrality officer boarded the vessel and
closely questioned all the passengers
as to their nationality. Private Clark
told the oflicer he was born in Vienna,
but had taken out his first American
citizenship papers some time ago. Later
he was taken ashore to the concentra
tion camp and closely questioned by the
commanding officer who released him.
I'rivate Clark said to-day that he would
make a full report to the war depart
ment. -
PRECAUTIONS TAKEN
.9 IKIUB IC- , .. , ,, ...
moved to his home on Main street, where -I' "'" "e ,-roper ,.-
h. n. trout...!. The hnrap !...! luuc HV -...ul-.tl, i..t..,,, .,u-
its owner and arrived at the barn at
orchestra of six pieces pleased the diners
with their excellent music. Seated at
the speakers' tables were Judge Frank
L. Fish of Vergennes, Governor Charles
W. Gates of Franklin, Joe Mitchell Chap
pie, Dr. John M. Thomas, president of
.Middleburv college; Kev. and Mrs. C. J.
tutes an important second essential
A firmly fixed policy is the third es
sential, said Professor Smith. No organ
ization can be successful with a hit or
miss policy any more than a vast mer
cantile concern in New York or Chicago
can successfully pursue the policy used
by the proprietor of a cross-roads gro
cery. In the first place the scope of the
board of trade should be bisr enouch. but
Fred L Laird and Fred B. Thomas Sued not too big. Development along civic
Charles H. Heaton Et Al. Ilines, in commercial, industrial and agri
cultural circles would be consistently
sought. Sectarianism and endeavors for
ATTORNEYS' SUIT SETTLED.
The two cases brought in Washington
countv court by Attorneys Fred L. Laird
- ' ...... -! , , rrl....- i. -ii T tr I yitv
maples oi iwriington, air. ana iirs. uoo - '." studiously avoided. Co-operative civic
Seeds of Birmingham, Pa., Dcsn J. L. ,e"ton e recover fees for services lk CHnnot br0ok neglect. It is a prime
Hills of the College of Agriculture of " counsel during the trials of the Heat- f gnf, ,, membw on ,ffiifatiii
the mtversity of Vermont; J. G. Turn- y. with a oommunity organization, should
to aeiermine in. u sposu.on , certain dt tfc .. for nd tlierefore
a u-nra Into -P a T Vil 1J V B I tuTl! fltn Hid. I . 1 . ...
' - " j - " v I a 11 for encli" flrtif iii e I he work- of fl
And Case of Scarlet Fever at Seminary
Is Isolated. -
A mild case of scarlet fever has been,
discovered at Goddard seminary and as
every precaution has been taken to keep
the case isolated, there is little fear of
an epidemic and unless the unexpected
happens the school will not be quaran
tined. Miss Frieda Hassan of East
Hardwick, who returned to school about
10 days ago, has been ill with the disease
since Wednesday. Her illness was defi
nitely diagnosed yesterday, after she had
already been removed to an infirmary
room in the new building. Health Officer
J. W. Stewart, who van called to the
seminary last night, approved of the pre
cautionary measures adopted by the
school authorities and said that quaran
tine will probably not be necessary.
Miss Hassan is only mildly affected
and her early recovery is anticipated.
Just where she contracted the malady
cannot be determined, although at the
school there are those who incline to the
belief that she may have been exposed
before returning to the seminary after
the Christmas vacation. Students who
contemplated attending the production
of "The.. Only Girl" at the opera house
have been asked to cancel their seat res-
C0ASTED INTO POLE.
bull, former president of the association;
.Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Brooks. Mr. and Mrs.
F. H. Bickford, Professor Thomas Bnrd
lee of the University of Vermont, Miss
Gladys S. Smith, official stenographer of
the association, and Howard L. Hindlev,
editor of the Jutland Herald. The bless
ing w
this ci
one group alone, for example, should lie I ervations and other measures of precau
tion have been enforced. Classes are
held regularly, however, and the pres
ence of the fever in light form will not
he allowed to interfere with the usual
tenor of school life.
i continued. Those concerned in the cases
board of trade should be continuous and
To meet monthly and do
. . .-1 . . .1 . .. ).... ...... i , t i i u"n
SHIU VO-UHV IHHV Bt-l fcU-llirilL I1HU OCCIII A
. . a. rt-1. l I
encctea out oi court, me sums namea ,,,, ,..; .i.i i.
call tlir nviiv II V uiic Hill 1111 nuuiu isvi
tv oai a 4 1 a tuviv nniiontirin ef 4- Vj
Counsel for the petitioner in the Fos- . f ;t J Tf 0i,i.i
as asked by Rev. C. J. Staples of tpr divorce case had not finished putting ju'st Rg continuou, ' a 8tore a ik
it.V. n tneai tliw forenoon. Among those of nn jnfmran(.e omoe.
particularly In New England in fighting
legislation inimical to the best interests
of the dairymen: J. G. Turnbull of Or
leans, E. S. Brigham of St. Albans and
George H. Chaffee of Rutland.
CASES ARE DISCONTINUED.
Had
Charles
The ladies and pastor's union of the
Hedding Methodist church held their
daughter also will be placed in confine- annual !usine meeting yesterday after-
ment. noon. The reports 1hv.1 a very uc-
eetsful year' work. The following ofii-
Icem -were elected for the
TO ANSWER IN MASCH.
Young Man Got Broken Hip; Girl an In
jury to Spine.
Rutland, Jan. 14. Two Rutland i-oung
people, James Creed, jr., and Miss Paul
ine Grace, whose parents live in Fowler,
were taken to the Rutland hospital last
night following a coasting accident on
South Main street when a big traverse
controlled by young Creed, who is the
son of Mr. and Mrs. Jam.- E. Creed of
No. 3r East street, collided with a tele
graph pole. Creed was taken to the
hospital in the Spencer & Canty am
bulance, where he was attended by Dr.
B. C. Powers, while Miss Grace was
taken to the hospital in Dr. Kay E. eating the judgments in each case and
Smith's automobile, she being attended i permitting each to t; scontinued. Act
by this physician. ing on the court' suggestion. State's
The traverse contained eight or nine Attorney B. E. Cole entered nole
young people aud it was being guided : prosequi in each case. This disposition
by treed. Miss Grace sitting next to (was induced by the favorable conclu
him on the bobs. The hill was a aiieet I sions reached bv Marvelle C. Webber of
of ice and the sled had gone but a short ; Rutland as commissioner, whose report
distance when it gained gresf speed and
started slewwjr mra one side of the
road to the other.
All members of the roasting party
hung
President II. X. nrookn announce the max lesimeu jesierimy arm io-uay were T?f; ,f, f A. T.
appointment oi the toiiowmg legislative I1""5 "- ."" -.., -.!"- "" fessor Smith advocated a $10 minimum
committee, which will co-operate with tm? petitioner, a young lady who was at f tow of Iiarre.g Bize with ?5
similar committees from dairymen's as- Pne im? T , emPloJ ?' 1,r' tPr "J assessment as inost preferable. It looks
sociatiotis uirougiiout the country and "."""'" i'" ",m big, he conceded. but what can one ex-
MET TOGETHER IN INSTALLATION.
SIX YEARS IN PRISON.
pect for $. or $S. he asked. Time and
energy and loyalty are of primary im
portance, he concluded, but money is
highly important, nevertheless.
First, last and all the time a board of
trade should be co-operative, and its
success is measured greatly by the ac
tivity of its committees. Professor
Been Brought Against
Batchelder, Attorney.
Woodstock, Jan. 14. Windsor county
court has made final disposition of the
cases in which Charles Batchelder was
involved, and which arose in 1 fl 3. bv va-
being brought to the attention of the
judges, shows that Mr. Batchelder's eon
duct has in the past two years been ex
emplary and such as to inspire the belief
abid-
tne cominir ver: Ming on, inn ine iront lei Headed lor,1" e win eoniinue a sober, la
i President. Mr. E. (,y.on; hrt vice's telephone le after it had readied a ! 'Sf eitiren.
New Hampshire to Make Reply to Ver
mont's Boundary Dispute.
pretident, Mrs. D. H. Mre; second vice
! presiucm, .mis. nar i-s rven.-rson ; sec re -jtarv,
lr. C I- Bughee; treasurer. Mrs.
Concord. N. IL, Jan. 14. The state of T. H. Cave, jr.: also the following r!,ir-
Ner Hampshire has accepted as proper '. men of committees; ex-ntiie. Mrs. R.ijureL
lepal H"-tice the bill filed by Vermont infW. Hmker: flower. Mrs. MnH.sk Pat-1 Creed had a !n.ken right hip ami he
the suit brought in the supreme court ' tersnn ; entertainment. Mrs. K. M. ' t severely bruised. Mi ( .rnce has a
t determine the boundary line between 'l.j on: refreshment. Mrs. If. 1 !... r: !j"ili!e injury to the f up and site
the two states. membership. Mrs. H. . S.-..M : H h n I ' u;r. rim seer.-lv lst n'trl.t from the
New IUn-pt'ire will file 0 answer lit.-hen. Mrs. Walter Perkins; Kk and ! k. It e,.il,l ri.'.t lie as.Tttaine-1 w hcth
wim tiai la March, BeeJy, Mis. Walter l'dliai, r vr nvt tLe was injuicd iiiternallj-,
Sentence Imposed on John Donah for
Horse Stealing.
Middleburv. Jan. 14. The December
term of Addison county court adjourned Smith was a warm advocate of noonday
yesterday, the only business transacted lunches r 6:30 o'clock suppers for a
being the sentencing of John Donah, who board of trade. He emphasized the get
on Wednesday pleaded guilty to steal- together spirit created bv such assent
ing two horses in Short-ham in July last, blies and cited St. Johns'bury and Bel
State's Attorney Sturtevant asked for lows Falls as towns where the plan has
a heavy sentence, stating that there were worked out well. Business should be
other criminal matters in which Donah abandoned, in a sense, on these occasions,
was alleged to be involved. Robert W. although reports of achievement ilons
McCuen, representing the respondent, any line should be welcomed always. He
suggested that the other cases had noth- advised securing outside speakers to dis-
ing to do with the case under consider- cuss topics of immediate interest to a
ation and he thought that a light sen- board of trade or to ileal with national
tence would be sufficient. The prisoner and world-wide issues,
said that he had nothing to say for him- Before closing his address, the speaker
self. He was sentenced to serve not pointed out the value of having auxiliary
less than six nor more than seven years units in each board of trade, units de-
in the state's prison.
FORD PACIFISTS ORGANIZE.
point opposite tlovrr street and Creed The report shows that Mr. Batchelder
was not able to st.yr to one side or t !.e enjoy the confidence and respect of the!
other. The sleds trashed into the pole
nd the first two were most severely in-
de-ent citirens ol the community
w hich he lies in me-ird d.-grec.
Mrs. A. G. Whitcher of East Montpel
ier is spending the week-end with her
si-ter, Mr. ,lim V.ylie. in this citv.
Bryan, Ford and Others Elect Perma
nent Pesos Board.
The Hague, via Londan, Jan. 14. The
Ford peace eXedition has elected the
following A met ican members of the per
manent pea.-e board to sit in Europe in
definitely with the purpose of using all
efforts to settle the war: William Jen !
voted to the welfare of commercial, mer
cantile and other lines. "When the
members of any community organization
hae grown thoroughly loyal, when their
organization is sub-tsnt ially established
and grounded in the fundamentals of
board of trade work, then en.-e-s is two
thirds won and after that only one nire
factor is needed and that i a paid jw-c-retary."
said lrnfesr Smith in bringing
his remarks to an end.
Odd Fellows and Rebekahs Held Session
Last Evening.
Hiawatha lodge. No. 20, I. O. O. F.,
and Bright Star Rcbekah lodge, No. IS,
held their joint installation of officers
last evening in the Odd Fellows' hall.
A banquet was served at the close of
the ceremony, over 12."i covers being laid.
The officers for Hiawatha lodge were
as follows: Noble grand, Warner B.
Wheeler; vice grand. Ernest M. Hous
ton; secretary, S. W. Scott; treasurer,
Del V. Stone; warden. Elmer J. Clark;
conductor, Ray C. Waterman; chaplain,
Clarence G. Carr: right supporter of
noble grand, Joseph Iloyt; left support
er of noble grand, I.ysle Hurnham; right
supporter ot" vice grand, Frank Adams;
left supporter of vice grand, C. L. Web
ster; right scene supporter, George
Thompson; left scene supporter, AlWt
II. Saunders; inside guardian, Fred D.
Beck ley; outside guardian, E. A. Wil
liams.
the following were the olhcers in
stalled by the Rcbekah lodge: Xobl
grand, Mrs. Josie IVnmore; vice grand,
Mr. Allie I'ydlw-rg: secretary. Mrs.
Flora Clark: warden. Mrs. Lillian Dun
can; conductor. Miss Mildred Cook: right
supporter of noble grand. Mrs. Mabel
Carr; b it supporter of nntde grand. Mrs.
Grai-e Waterman; right supjKirter of view
grand. Mrs. Elen Houston; left sup
porter of vi-e grand. Mrs. I.ln.lvs (lark;
inide guardian. Mrs. Adelia Nelson: out
side guardian. O. K. Philbru-k; chaplain,
Mr. Kst-lle Phi'bri.-k.
DIED AT RUTLAND.
Mrs. Joseph Seely Weeks, Mother af
Late Rev. William Farrar Weeks.
Rutland. Jan. It. Mr. Joseph SeeUa
Weeks, nmtlier f the late Itiohcn t
! a !:! William f arrar We-k. died here
morning. Mte was l4 jr of ac
Mr. a:i4 Mrs. torge H.e are cpt-nd- jnings l'rn. Harry For.!. Mis Jane Ai- Mrs. !iff..rt .. !! of Wet tr-etjnl a nute of M. ,sJ!.n. where
ir;g s week at the home of .1. i. Ilubbins .lams, the hcv. t harl.-s F. Aked and Mrs. !a r -turned Ix.rue. sit. r pas.jnj tett-ral I he tui.rrsl wiil !.e held at -t Lukes
Joseph Pels of Philadelphia, tiaj s with friends in Uvston. .Uutli Satnf.laj- noon.
in the East Montpelier load.
