" winirr MrimmiminniTnr "" " '"--"" "'-M -- ' -- - - - --' -i."." -. r - "B
Hk 1 H H H B Hh h b 1 1 3 bl BlH 1 H Ik 1 1
Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 25, 1916 No. -2Q0 H
At Rest AtLast
C O the long waiting Is over. The wearyl'ife is
at an end. Francis Joseph was born to a
throne. Those about him imbued him with the be
lief that his was a divine life, that he carried with
it something which was denied the ordinary chil
dren of man. To him, was extended manifold
gifts. He was to ibe surrounded with kingly
courtiers, fair ladies, and all that beauty, all that
wealth e'er gave. What he wanted he was to de
mand. Those whom he would, he exalted. Those
whom he would, he debased. Armies fought at his
command. Whenever he appeared he was thrilled
witli the affectionate greetings of his ipeople. He
knew every day that he was a concernment of all
the nations, and that perhaps more effectively,
than any other mortal, his will was being execut
ed, his friendship sought and then Fate began to
play, tricks upon him. Those whom he loved be
gan'to be taken from him, and he was not long in
the learning, that despite his divine rights, there
was j no agency through which he could retain at
his side, one of his own household, and it was
not long until he learned that there was not much
left, the possession of which he very much de
sired. He found out that the world was full of
sorrows and that the majesty of kings and courts
carried no balm for them. He learned further
that to support and maintain peace among dis
cordant tribes, was a work that was filled with
vexation, that indeed, had it been the intention
of Fate, to exhaust him with the cares heaped up
on him, things would not have 'been much changed.
Then, when his frame was well-nigh worn out,
when he had reached that ago, that what he most
coveted was rest, he suddenly saw his native land
overwhelmed by the mightiest war of the ages;
for two years and more he has been listening to
the calling of the death roll of the millions of his
people who have died, and without any defined
hope of the future in the sorrows of the present,
it must have 'been a welcome summons to him
that ibore his soul away, from hefore the mighty
upheaval around him, and to cause him to wel
come at last the rest which he has been seeking
for more than three score years and ten.
A Why Do Not The I. W. W's Celebrate?
, W7 HAT is the matter with the I. W. W.'s that
they do not issue a call for a jubilee to bo
held in this city or Ogden to celebrate their re
cent overwhelming victory?
Such a call should surely be called, and the
President of the United States, and Justice Bran
deis of the supreme court should have special in
vitations, with a guarantee that their expenses
should be paid and testimonial presented to them.
A brutal murderer was arrested, arraigned,
fairly tried, convicted and sentenced to death.
His case was appealed; the supreme court gave
it careful hearing and unanimously affirmed the
judgment of the lower court. During the trial
threatening letters were sent by a sinister organ
ization called the I. W. W.'s to the judge trying the
case. After the conviction other letters more
wonounced in their murderous threats came to
the governor and supreme court of the vengance
f
I
'mu
U .. ,
that. would follow in case of the murderer's exe
cution. The same organization induced the President
of the United States to interpose and ask for a
re-hearing for the murderer, the letter ibeing when'
fairly construed a reproach to our courts and peo
ple. Another letter more pronounced in its insults
come from an obscure but locally notorious judge
named Brandeis. In the east this Brandeis is
known as "Shifty Louie."
One more hearing was held, all the facts were
canvassed, nothing was found to change the ver
dict and the culprit was executed. The first re
sponse to that was the warning by the President
of this same' "Shifty Louie" as a justice of the
supremo court of the United States; that place
made hallowed by the names of Marshall, Jay,
Storey, Piccney and a long list of follow immortals.-
The second response has come from the people
of Utah. In the most potential way, through their
ballots, by an overwhelming majority they have
directed that the president and "Shifty Louie"
and the would-be assassins who sent threatening
letters were right, that the governor, the district
judge who presided at the trial, that the supreme
court that affirmed the decision, were all wrong
if not depraved.
Why should not the I. W. Wj.'s hold a grand ju
bilee celebration here in honor of their endorse
ment by the people of Utah ?
No one would dare protest against such a cele
bration for has not the direct endorsement of
an unheard of majority of the people, men and
women, of Utah behind them?
Villa might also 'be appropriately invited for
has he not honestly earned the reputation of heing
a first-class assassin and have not the majority of
the voters of Utah, men and women, directly in
dorsed him?
Apostle Francis G. Lyman
V NE of " 5 strongest apostles was Francis G.
Lymai What he believed he believed, and
when compiomises were suggested in the settle
ment of difficulties or differences, it was a half
instinct with him to look upon such settlements,
as a compromise with crime. He was born with
that old-fashioned integrity, which attached to the
Pilgrim fathers, and there was so much of the old
Puritan in him, that it would not have been dif
ficult to make him believe that there being but
one true religion, no one but the true believer
should be saved. He had splendid administrative
ability.
In the business in which he was engaged with
his ibrother apostles in the church from the first,
he not only insisted that the whole business
should be on the square but it must be so mani
festly so that there must never be any question
about its correctness. There was a great deal of
the martyr in his nature. He would have gone
tp the stake without the quiver of an eyelash, and
sitting as a judge, our idea of him is that he would
.hayq .been swayed by absolute justice, and not
very much mellowed hy mercy. Whatever he ex
pected of others he never expected from any, of H
them, as much as he exacted from himself. He H
was apparently determined from childhood that H
an accounting of his life should be made every H
day, that it must be, indeed, in order for him to H
sleep at night. He was a superior man among H
men. He followed his duty as God gave him to H
see his duty, and in pursuit of that duty ho count-
ed not to whether his path led up to fortune and
to fame, or down to loss and, sorrow. H
He was an Invincible worker, wearing his har- H
ness to the very last. A stong and able man in M
all the walks of life. H
The Blatherskite M
rT",HIS man Beiderwolf is beginning to get on- ev-
erybody's nerves. He has made himself a pub-
lie nuisance and he should be dealt with accord-
ingly by the proper authorities. H
It is all very well to be engaged in the busi-
ness of saving souls, provided one is honest about
it and plays the game according to the well-estab- H
lished rules. But even then it will sometimes pay H
the gullible to take the stuif some of these sky- H
pilots hand out with several grains of salt before
they venture out on the sawdust trail to heaven. H
It is sufficiently nerve-racking to be continu- H
ally subjected to the whims and wiles of the red- H
eyed moral reformers we have right here at home, H
but when an itinerant evangelist comes to town H
and begins to take potshots at everybody and H
everything in sight it's time to call a halt. H
Who is this blunderbuss anyway? From where H
does he hail? What business is it of his how wo
conduct ourselves in this city? What license has M
he to criticize our churches and our schools and H
show houses? Is he above the law that he can BB
openly libel respectable people and legitimate M
business enterprises? Who commissioned him to M
come in our midst and preach the Sodom and M
Gomorrah stuff to weak-minded individuals who M
are silly enough to sit and listen to him slop over H
night after night? H
This city is entirely capable of placing its own M
house in order. It has also, a full sense of its M
responsibility in the matter of the preservation of M
public decency and resents being railed at by M
some rank outsider. The people of this -state M
have some rather pointed ideas concerning public H
and private morality and to date have succeeded H
admirably in the solution of these perplexing prob- H
lems. Moreover, the vast majority of our people H
have shown a disposition to attend to their own H
affairs and this attribute in itself is the very be-
ginning of public decency. H
There are many things in the city and state, H
it is true, that do not exactly suit us. The com- H
munity would be at a standstill if we all thought H
alike. But we dispose of our differences from H
time to time as best we can, and each move wo H
make is designed for the mutual benefit and up- H
lift of each other. This being the case, there
seems to be no necessity for being bothered H
longer by this howling phariseo Bledorwolf. H
TIiq people of this city are far-famed for their H
cordial hospitality to strangers but it strikes us- H
that it is time to draw the lino in this instance. H
Tonight when Biederwolf starts his tirade we
