~~L~~~hP&AL M__ _ ALAMR_ _
AW~ ~ RAT.T Pgs h
ue s eource
thE meet 'USEFUL advert ng
for botS merchant and aop-.
NO. 360. WEAIB-FIMI Am COmL WASHINGTON, D. -.. SATURDAY, NO "ER 25, 1916. ONE CENT
BRDER PEACE
PLAN ADOPTED
BY CONFERENCE
U. S. May Withdraw Pershing
Forces Within Next
Forty Days.
SUBJECT TO APPROVAL
End of Troubles in Mezico Seen if
Governments Ratify Ten-.
tative Pact.
(By th'e Intesarntlbal News servtea)
Atlantic City, N. J.. Nov. 3L-An agree
ment was reached between the American
and Mexican delegates to the joint con
ferences here today. It provide.:
1. For the withdrawal from Mexico of
the Pershirt punitive expedition within
forty days of the approval of both gov
ernments of the agreement. The provis
ion is mqide that the time may be extend
ed if conditions in Northern Mexico are
such as to constitute a menace to United
States soil. The details of the withdrawal
are ift to Gen. Pershing.
'. Tiat United States troops thereafter
%hall patrol their side of the border and
%lexican troops theirs in order t. guard
asgainst raids. to-operation between both
tu, cts in cases of necessity is proided.
A stLiement was given out by the com
m; on. It sas. in part:
The commnission has come to an agree
n-eet a.. to withdrawal of American troops
In Mexico and border co:trol which is to
to by M1. Pani to M.exico. If it is a:
meptable the conferenc- wvill be resumed
a tilI two weeks. The troops are to
I* withdrawn by Gen. Pershing within
f t 4 dJs of the appr val of the a;;ree
Ut. but in su#h ranner as will permt
.ie 1.i-n troops to occupy the evac
tied territory, which the Mexicans have
igreed to do.
3ay Disperse Marauders.
"Should the northern section of Chihua
hua be in a stat- of turmoil such am to
th: eaten our border the American troops
npy alone or In conjun-tion with the
}lN-xcan troops diapers- the marauders,
.'..d tIhe time for withdrawal shall he
'xt-nded by the time necessary for such
a ork.
"The Mexican commander is to'have
7u-Ittol of the plan by which occupation
of Northern Chihuahua is effected. and
Gen. Pershing is to have control of the
Ian of withdrawal and the right to use
i.L- railread to Juarez if ha so desIres.
"The agreement distinctly states that
P-h side is to care for its own side of
th' border. but that this shall not pre
ind- co-operagon between the two
forves to preserve peace upon the bor
der." + '
The. American commissioners told their
Mexican colleagues that as a matter of
national necessity the policy of this gov
ernment must be to reserve the right to
Pursue ma uders coming from Mexico
into the T' hates so long as condi
tions in I rn Mexico are in their
preent abn al state.
Such pursuit is not, however, to be re
m rded by Mexico ,. in any way hostile
to the Carranza government, for the ma
iaid-rs are our common enemies.
ALLEGED WIFE SLAYER
LAUGHINfi AT INQUEST
Award Cook, Accused of Murder. Ap
parently Unafraid.
e' ail to Thie Wxahiastno ierald.
Bordentown. N. J.. Nov. 2I.-Nonrhal
antly smoking a cigarette and laughing
at remarks from the crowd. Edward
Cook..29 years 01d. accused of murdering
his young wife. Bertha Cook. at their
home here last Sunday afternoon, ap
peared to have no appreciation of his
serious situation as he was led from the
court room in City Hall this afternoon,
After a coroner's jury had listened to
three alleged confessions from the pris
oner and an intimation of a fourth, which
th- 1stt did not present.
Cook, who at first said his wife had
shot herself while fooling with bin gun,
a dmitted in his second and third confes
sions. pre-ented by the Mate today. first
that he had shot her accidentally as he
was reaching for the gun case, later that
he had stumbled as he was coming Irom
the dining-room into the kitchen and
that the gun was discharged as he fell,
the charge blowing out his wife's braina
COURTNG COSTS SCARE CUPM.
New York. Nov. 24.-Dan Cupid has no
fear of the cost of living. But the high
Lost of courting-well, that's different.
Young men apparently have found it
cheaper to support a wife than to enter
tain a "best girl," according to the sta
tistics of the marriage license bureau.
The number of licenses issued has jumped
from an average of 100 a week to 1* a
week during the last two weeks.
$500,000,000 FIGT.
New York. Nov. 24-The fight to over
turn the Appellate Court's decision tiat
New York State's moving picture houses
must clos on Sunday will be led and
financed by film men representing a capi
talistion of over N00,000,00, according to
prominent motio, theater owners of this
city. A eaR bas been sent out for a meet
ing in New York on Thanksgiving Day to
a Liscuss the fight details.
LOSE NY IGEORANCE.
The Department of Agriculture yester
day announced that cotton growers lost
over seven and one-half nsinlien dolls. in
1-4, because grade. were not properly
tahem into account in the primary sale.
A hbfletin issued by the departiment
peints out that the producers can wipe
out this lose by becoming fasmliae witia
the diferent grades and by proper
gining, adequate haling and covering of
the cotton.
- drninmi nkiy Niplainea.
'3 L enden. Nov. Kt-A wirelee ss y
received from Bertha todey states that
S as the British ship Britannic, raeet
sunk. "bere the distingeishing amrks et
a bempital ship naturafly there can be
so question et a submarine in cenneeties
wits the aking *" This is held to be a
etelhal e3s==ea &.ve==e
COIL= cau DIVORCE.
Pretty Demegal Basmaid leresponde
eat In Wale Case.
Phuaelphla, Nov. IL-A pretty Irish
barmaid fromtDonegal County. Ireland,
was the cause of a divore between Capt.
John E. Walsh and ie wife Margaret,
of Ewingville, N. J., aooording to teeti
mony offered before Via* Chanoeflr
Lomming In tite Camden Court of Chan
cery today.
The diverce was granted ad the bus
band was ordered to pay 0la& week main-I
tenance to his wife. Mrs. Walsh in her
petition also afleged cruel and inhuman
treatment on the part of her huband.
But the elimax came, she said, when on
one of his trips to wee his pasents in Ire
land her husband brought back the girl
whom he described as Ellen Walsh. a
niece. Mrs.. Walsh mid that the girl
bore no relation whatever to Walsh, and
furthermore was a barmaid.
[PR'OBE ENLARGED'
"Flogging" Committee Seeks
Data in Forty-eighi States.
A nation-wide Investigation to deter
mine If Inmates of reform- schools are
whipped as a means of punishment was;
begun yesterday by Col. John Capers.
chairman of the committee of the Cham
ber. of Commerce whicp Is probing con-'
ditions at the National Training School
for Boys.
Letters to the governors of the forty
eight States were sent out asking two
questions:
First. Are children between 9 and 15
years whipped for violating rules?
Second. If so, to what extent is this
practiced and what Is used to punisn
them?
Col. Capers stated the committee had
decided to do this before visiting the
school to Investigate conditions first
bhnd.
Another develdpment .of yesterday in
connection with the probe was a request
of William M. Shuster. chairman of the!
board of trustees of the National Train
ing School. for a subcommittee from
the committee of the Chamber of Com
merce to visit the school personally and I
make a ful and impartial investigation
of affairs.
In a -letter to the District Commis
sioner last September. when the matter I
first came to be discussed, Chairman
Shuster is said to have stated that boys
were whipped at the school, but only in
extreme cases.
He Is also mid to have made the I
statement that corporal punishment is
practiced in all reformatory institutions
in the United States.
Iffr SISTERS EXECUTED!
BY CARBAN SOLDIERS
ITheir Maid Also Loees Life-Planned
to Slay Official. Is Charge.
By EDMUND BElH.
4 luternatiemal News service.)
Field headquarters punitive expedition
in Mexico. Nov. 23, via radio to Colum-'
bus. N. Mex.. Nov. 24.-Three women,
two sisters and their servant girl, were
executed yesterday at El Vale by the
CarranSists, garrison.
The offictal charge was conspiracy to
assassinate Col. Gonzales Dias. com
mander of the El Valle garrison. Thei
actual crime, however, was tseachery to
the Carranza government which had em- I
ployed them 'as spies. They 'double,
crossed" the Carransistas and sold them
selves to Pancho Villa.
Margarita Acosta, elder of the two'
sisters, communicated with a lieutenant'
to whom her sister had confided news
of an impending train robbery. She pro
posed to him the assassination of Col.
Dias and a re-olt of the garrison la'
favor of Villa.
The lieutenant pretended to fall In with
her plans but reported the conspiracy to
his commanding officer.
LOUIS P. SHOEMAKER
REALTY BROKER, DIES
Head of Brightwood Citizens' Associa
tioq, Succumbs to Acute Indigestion.
Louis P. Shoemaker, prominent Wash
ington real estate dealer, died yesterday
afternoon in the Emergency Hospital
from an attack of acute Indigestion. He
was one of the pioneer citizens of Wash
ington. having been born in 1956 in the
old Shoemaker homestead at Pierce's
Mill in Rock Creek Park. His father.
Pierce Shoemaker, was owner of most of
the land which now comprises the park.
Mr. Shoemaker was, prominently Identi
Bed with the real estate business of this
City, having been frequently called by
the government and private parties to
testify as an expert on real estate valua
tions in court proceedings.
He was a member of the board of di
rectors of the Washington ' Loan and
Trust Company and the board of direc
tors of the Columbia National Bank. He
was a member of the University Club,
and was president of the Brightwood
Citizens' Association.
DEVIL TO GRi' NO REST.
Boston, Nov. K-.-Butly Sunday emuphat
loally delled today that he Intended to re
tire next year from revival work.
"Not on your lifle," sbouted the evange
list In emaktig reply .to the query. "I
shall preach as long as the Lod lets
me keep my voice and my less are strong
efogh to prep me up. I Pray the Lord
will let me keep on Ating the devil an
til the very heer whem he says' 'lhats
enough, Biny, qn up- --
WED GRAWNTEUR; NoW su,
Long emel, CaL, Nov. 34-Mrg P'annie
U. Folger, formerly .Mrs. Dexter Am
Han, Bo-aon sdty ~ .wosate
3,aroeety by ims~ her chat
feu, Carss . Folger, N~ed sut
for divoree.
Mbe allegns that after the Iret year
of their marriage her heithad baen te
drink, gamble and dimpat,1 ad refusned
to work.
Ulsekest gea to ahSenee
Every Heur on -le fleer, slnser..
hio, 1.75 emi tuip,
READY TO. RAISE
LABORERS'WAGE
CapitolSuperintendent Awaits
New Standard.
Elliott Woods, superintendent of the
Capitol buildings and grounds,. declared
Yesterday that he was willing to increase
the pay of the laborers. in and around
the Capitol Building provided the other
departments made a similar advance and
raised the standard of pay for unskilled
labor. The Capitol laborers now receive
Dnly $1.50 to $1.75 a day.
Mr. Woods' announcement, coupled
with the fact that Secretary of Com
merce Redfeld will make strong reoom
mendations for an increase in salaries.
both in Washington and in the field, and
the news that Representative Nolan. of
California, has arrived in the city to
press his fight for the $3 a day minimum
wage bill for the government employes,
nade the proponents of larger salaries
feel thpt their cause had made real
progress.
The three large trade bodies of the
city have all fippointed committees to
Consider the question of wage increases
for the Federal workers. Chairman
isaac Gans. of the Board of Trade com
rnittee. declared yesterday that some
definite recommendation In the matter
would be made before Congress convenes.
PreEident I'. T. Moran. of the Chamber
3f Comimerce,. declared that organization
was working on the question, and the
ietail Merchants' Association commit
tee is busy. There Is talk of combining
the findings of the three bodies and hav
in them pre-nited by a joint committee.
,Superintendent Woods. at the Capitol,
admitted that the salaries paid laborers
ire extremely low. lie said that the ap
propriatIon for his branch of the service
'omes from the Department of the In
terior and that the pay of the laborers
was computed at the standard figure in
arriving at the total amount.
'The average pay of the laborers would
he about $1.83.' volunteered one of the
superintendent's assistants. Informed that
T1%UlED ON PAGE TWO.
SECOND HOSPITAL SHIP
SUNK IN AEGEAN SEA
Braemar Castle Victim of Mine or U
Boat-No Lives Lost.
Ily the I"teratilemal Mews aerviee.)
London. Nov. 24-The British hospi
I ship Braemar Castle has been sunk
ly a mine or torpedo in the Aegean
5ea.
She was the second hospital ship to
)e sunk in the Aegean this week, the
Britannic having been destroyed on
ruesday.
(ficial announcement of the loss of
he Braemar Castle was made today.
%o lives were lost.
The Braemar Castle was on her way
'rom Malta to Saloniki when she was
munk in the Mykoni Channel of the
kegean.
"All on hoard the vessel are safe,"
,ay. the admiralty statement.
The Braemsr Castle was owned by
he Utnion Castle line, but had been
aken over by the British government
lor war service. She displaced 6.318'
ons. She had taken a consignment of
wounded British soldiers to the British
iaval base at Malta and was on her
way to Saloniki to take on board an
>ther batch when she was sunk.
CONFESS $61,000 ROBBERY.
New York, Nov. 24.-Full confessions
ave been made by Orville and Arthur P.
Daggett. brothers, that they stole 65i,5M0
worth of jewels from Mrs. E. H. Harri
nan, according to the 'New York police,
all of the gems taken, with the exception
if a platinum chaif and diamonds val
jed at $10,000, have now been recovered.
rhe $40000 ruby forming part of the orig
nal pendant, was found, the poll de
!lare, In the pocket of an old pair of
rousers in the room of Arthur Daggett.
CONFER ON BELOIAN "SLAVES."
Berlin. Nov. 24.-Another conference was
ield today between American Charge
3rew and Chancellor von Bethmann-Holl
Pseg relative to the amelioration of cer
ain conditions under which Belgian work
men have been compilsorily employed
)y the German goternment. Informal
mggestions, it is understood, were made
for betterment of their situation. The
ipanish Ambassador, who also is acting
ror Belgium, held a conference with the
:ancellor.
PRIESTS MUST TAKE PLEDGE.
Chicago. Nov. 24.-Every priest ordained
In his diocese will be compelled to take
L five years' abstinence pledge, according
to Archbishop 0. W. Mundeloin, of the
Roman Catholic Church, today. Already
Ie has put that rule into effect, he said.
"I would not be trtie to my position and
my convictions if I did not take a stand
In favor of total abstinence," said the
archbishop.
ARCHBOID RERE BZTTM
New York, Nov. 2k-John D. Archbold,
president of tIg Standard Oil Company
sf New Jersey. was operated on for ap
pendicitis at his home in Tarrytown ts
sight.
News of the operatlon was given out
at tle ofiloes of the Standard Oil Comn
sany today.
Mr. Archbold poase a Comfortabie
sight and his condition is reaseuring.
BRIBERY GEGED CAUSE WTIR,
Charleston, W. Ya., Nov. 24-The
souse investiganting eommittee today be-.
a a probe Into charges that hags sums
,f money were oured and passed to
mebr of the lowgr legislative bodie.
b return for their Votes aemiast Pending
Outgetng trains welesded with legis
ators, lobbyIsta other prson.
U-30AT EENBEED Chl'EUED,
Miban. -Jbb eM
msia Sem todaw nt that a la3 sb
martue has besgwu by alts
mayal terms. A na uise
u.Uty lnded ebess ad two
Ssset, noimemn
plaomits i ~ # n
Rmeevel in Revot;
Cihaua Gets News
Siscial to 'lb Warhinton licrald.
El Paso. Tex., Nov. 2.-Roose
voit has started a revolution
against President Wilson, accord
Ig to a dispatch printed in "El
Democrata." of Chihuahua City.
The dispatch. under a Mexico
CRy date, reads as follow,:
"Alarming lutors have been cir
culating in this city which say that
Col. Theodore Roosevelt heads a
revolution that has broken out in
several States of the American
Union with the object of over
throwing President Wilson, who,
Roosevelt claims, authorized vari
one electoral frauds in order to
triumph in the past election.
"High offcials In this city and
some diplomats state with con
fidence that this rumor is a canard
of the American yellow press,
which Is hostile to Wilson. The
American Ambassador has tele
graphed to Washington to inform
himself as to the truth of the re
port."
| Telegraph Tips
San FrancIsco, Cal.. Nov. 24.-Queen
Liloukalani. recently ill, is much im
proved, according to passengers arriving
here from Honolulu. She now takes daily
drives and receives guests.
Duluth, Minn.. Nov. 7.-The es'ate of
Chester A. Congdon, Itr,-ubiican national
committeeman from Minnesota, who died
Monday, has been estimated at $23.000.O0.
Mr. Congdon was one of the wealthiest
men in linnesota.
Chicago, Ill., Nov. 24.-An increase of
30 per Sent on all s-her iles and estimates
on printing and bltti: aftar December
I was agreed on by, tok, job and per
odical printers of t'hiago and Northern
Illinois at a meeting here.
Los Angeles. Nov. 24.-Rapid recovery
and a Quick and conpete restoration of
health has been predicted for Mrs. Inez
Milholland Boissevain. the Puffrage lead
, r. v.ho lids been seriouslv Ill at the Ho
vital of the Good Samaritan for more than
a month.
Winsted. 'onn., Nov. 24.-An automo
bile containing Charles Andrews and Will.
lam Dunn. traveling salesnkareo. New
Haven, was struck by a New York boond
passenger train on a grade crossing at
Torrington and both men had remarkable
escapes from deati.
Greenwich. Conn., Nov. 24.-Papers in
an aetlon for-lIVorce and Alimony begun
by 4rs.1J - IlIusted, of DAnbury. Conn..
agaInst MilA Htusted, Yale law student,
together with an attachment of the de
fendant's ir<perty, have been left at Mr.
Htusted's home here.
St. Thomas. 1). W. I.. Nov. 24.-Capt.
Theodore De BoOy, of the American In
dian Miseun. New York. has discovered
here an Indian burial mound and much
valuable evidence of aboriginal life. He
i still working successfully on this dis
covery. the first ever made here.
Berlir. Nov. 21.-Deposits in the sav
Ings bank.3 of Vienna now amount to 100,
(00.000 kroner (829.t00,00)4 more than on the
corresponding date or last year. says-the
Overseas News Agency, and deposited in
other banks are 60.000.000 kroner ($120,000,
In() more than last year.
New Orleans. La., Nov. 24-A contract
for construction of four $250.000 steel tank
steamshil for the Mexican Petroleum
Compary. of New York, has been closed
by the A;lbama-New Orleans Transporta
tion Conp-any, which will begin work on
the vesls at its yard. near here, next
month.
London. Nov. 24.-The Right Hon.
Charles Booth. chairman of the Booth
Steamstilp C'ompany, is dead here today.
Iesides being identified prominently with
ta igo shipping interests, Mr. Booth was a
noted sociologist.
Amsterdam. Nov. 21-Charges that the
Germans are dismantling all machinery in
Belgium for the copper on them are print
ed today by the newspaper Neuvelles de
Maestricht.
Winsted. Conn.. Nov. 24-Raymond J.
Spow. of 9tis; William Winters. of West
Stockbridge. and Newton Frost. of Lee,
shot and killed a deer apiece in Berkshire
County. The combination, together with
to-night's gnle, leads citizens to believe
that winter is here. Mr. Snow and Mr.
Frost eacti got a buck, while Mr. Win
ters killed a doe.
LAST
To Sen<
Thanksgiv
$7.50, $5.
Given to Washington womnen
menus to The Washington Herald
Here's a Jban1ce for Wash
culinary skili. Plan a dinnar fg
Thanksgiving Day-end send you,
Washington Herald.
The best meenu, in the op.
awarded $7.50. The second he
third $2.50.
== = ===RU)
Plam year ame her
sde of thipaper ei; a
Editor, Wuastme Bawdi.
The threewn.5mg
sumted thm wE be pui
Mdsy and Tese -em opgb
RU ANIAN ARMY
TEUTON TRAP,
F of Orsova and Turnu-Sev
irin Believed Death Blow.
(my the Internatsna. Xsews Service.)
London. Nov. 2t.-Orsova and Turnu
Severin. the two principal cities adjacent
to the iron gate of the Danube just in
side the Rumanian frontier today fell
to Gen. Von Falkenhayn. and with their
capture the doom of an entire-Russo-!;
Rumanian army was sealed. An yet,
there is no news of what happened to
It. but it is believed that it abandoned
the two cities in face of the overwhelming
Teuton manpower and artillery and Bed
into the hills to the northwest.
By an ironic trick of fate. ftusia=s and
Rumanians who some few mouths ago set
out to overrun the Hungarian plain, are
now driven in that direction by Falken
hayn whose strategic masterstrokes
turned the tables on Rumania and out
flanked the would-be invaders.
The two other events forecast yester
day were reported as actual happenings
in today's official war bulletins. One isi
Falk-ht0:,yn's advance from Cralova to
l12r1.ana' western "railway barrier." the
Rothetihurm Pars-Corabia road. The
second is the crossing of the Danube by
the forces of Field Marshal Von Mack
ensen, ushering in the final chapter of
the Rumanlan campaign, the joint drive
on Bucharest.
The Rumanian war office admits the
withdrawal of King Ferdinand's troops"
from the left bank of the Oltets River.'
in W Oltenle Valley. This means that
Falkenhayn has approached to the gates
of Slatina and i, about to seize control
of the entire railway running from the
Transylvanian Alps down to the Danube.
The fall of P'iatra. where this road con
verges with the 'raiova-Campulung Rail
road is believed to be a matter of hours
as Is that of Silatins.
How rapid is the eastward advance
from Craiova is shown by the fact that
the German w ar ofice this afternoon an
nounced "we an approaching the Alt
Valley." wliil. tonight's ofilcial bulletin
said. "we hax e reached the Alt Valley."'(
"FEED AMERICA FIRST"
LAB8R'S NEW SLOiAN
A. F. of L Convention Adopts Reso
lution Calling for Embargo.
(By the Interntlonal News service.) ]
Haltimore. Md.. Nov. 24.-"Feed America
first' was the slogan sounded in the eon
ventlon of the Anricaun 'ederation of
Labor today when ft voted unanimously
to demand an emabargo upon shipments of
wheat and other foodstuffs from this
countrny.
iDebate brought out the charge that
wheat speculators are trying to turn pub
lie attention to a prosecution of the
baker,. when in fact tihe cost of all -le
tments In the production of a loaf of bread
have advanced to such an extent within
the past year that no court would hold
the bakers to blame for raising their
prices.
A resolution demanding a probe by the
Department of Justice Into the "con
spiracy" through which the cost of print
paper has been doubled and in some cases
trebled within the past year was also
adopted.
Old-ace pensions for the workers wvere
proposed, but this measure was sent to a
special committee for study and report a
year hence.
U-BOATS SINK TWO SHIPS
London, Nov. 24.-The British steamr
Erneston. ".PM tons, has been sunk by a
German submarine, according to Lloyds
dispatches. Twelve members of the crew
were landed, but the captain and several
men have been unheard of since taking to
en open boat.
London. Nov. 24.-The Swedish steam
ship Arthur. 1.3i0 tons, has been sunk;:
by a submarine. says a Reuter dispatch:
from Gothenburg today. The crew was
landed by a trawler.
THIETY HURT D WRECK.
New York. Nov. 24.-Between twenty
five and thirty persons were injured this
afternoon when a northbound Nostrand.
avenue street car plunged twenty feet to
the bottom,of a new subway excavation,
tr Erasumus street. Brooklyn. The pas
sengers were all piled In a heap in the
lower end of the car, but only one, irs.
Elizabeth Grace, B, was hurt seriously.
DAY
I In Your
ing Menu
00, $2.50
who send in the best Thanhsgiving
Menu Editor before Sunday.
Ditonl housewive to show their
the great Americaa feast day
nernu to the.Mheing Editor of The
ion of the Menu Editor, will be
et will be awarded$5 and the
see peeple; winem. .
ieus ettes t hse me
tenames of the woenwho
bed 1.Th Hrd Wmnw.J
bl,
KI a"d Fear Pe Out as kedtsee
Current + Eaters Man's 3euth.
Philadelphia, Nov. 24.--Get 'em pull.
id electrically.
Walter Layton. :9 years old, of Cam.
len, did last ight, and he didn't have
0 pay a dentist to do the job either.
Layton was walking in the rain
storm at Ninth and Spruce streets
amdens.ls attention diverted by try
ng to balance an umbrella agaianst the
rale. There was a sagging electric
wire ahead of him, but Layton didn'i
see it. The wire was full of "kick.'
which Layton realized when it grase<
rgainst his mouth and sent two hun.
Ired or more volts of electricity cours.
ng about his jaws. Four teeth popped
>ut of their cockets like the "jack out
if a box." Layton hiked home. thank.
'ul it was only his teeth he had lest.
MILL MISS GAME
Cold Prevents President See
ing Army-Navy Contest.
President Wilson will not attend the
trmy and Navy football game in New
rork today. due to the severe cold con
racted sine returning from Shadow
,awn. He wil: be represented by Seere
ary of the Navy Daniels and Secretary
if War Baker. Nutnerous ether groups at
he game representing the army and navy
actions htre will Include practically all
nembers of the official set.
The President's decision to remain at
he White Hou.e and nurse his cold was
nnounced in the following telegram for
rarded by Secretary Joseph Tumulty te
'oiice Commissioner Arthur Woods int
ew York last nt-h:
"On the advice (of is phyrician the
"rcsident has eaneled hIs trip to New
cork tomorrow'-. Whil-* lie is recovering
rmm his cold. Dr. Grayson does not think
t advisable for him to sit in the open for
o long and thus possibly take fresh
old."
Dr. Grayson and Secretary Tumulty
oth gave assurare last night that there
s nothing alaringnt in the President's
ondition. With tl:e exception of the
'abine-t meeting, at which working con
litions for department employes were dis
ussed to the exclusion of all other mat
ers, the Chief Executive did not perform
ny olfcial business 3erterday.
Among the notable persons who will at
end the fotball game are: MaL Gen.
nd Mrs. Hugh L. Scott, Maj. Gen. and
irs. (corge Barnett. Rear Admiral and
lis. Seaton Schroeder. Col. and Mrs.
tobert M. Thompson. Rear Admiral and
frs. James H. Glennon. Lieut. Gen. and
4rs. S. B. Young. Secretary of State and
irs. Lanssig left for New York last
ight and expect to remain there until
donday.
EMlRE OF ERLEi
EXDTED AT 11IAI
"hotograph of Woman's Nether Ex
tremity Shows Bruises.
Iecdsl to or" Wsshigtion Hermid.
New York. Nov. 4.-A photograph of a
roman's leg, marked with bruises, was
thown this afternoon at the hearing ir
ew York City of a double divorce actior
>riginating in New Jerrey and tried by
in advisory master of the Court of Chat
,ry of New Jersey. The occasion was
he examination of New York witnesses
n the suit and countersuit for divorce
irought by the Rev. J. Edwin Triplett
oastor of the First Presbyterian Churci
if Woodbury, N. J., and by Mrs. Dor
,thy A. Triplett, now of No. :42 Wads
korth avenue.
Mr. Triplett alleges desertion and un
aithfulness to marriage vows. Mrs. Trip
ett alleges cruelty.
The photographic print pictures a
roman's nether extremity from the fool
o above the knee, with bruises upon it
nd the purpose of having It taken was
o show that Mrs. Triplett suffere
iruises while fighting to shield hersell
tom an attack in the hotel, to which she
lieges she was lured under pretense o1
ransacting a real estate trade.
Testimony was brought out in the at
empt to show that Mrs. Triplett had %is
ted several cafes and ohtels in company
ith a man not her husband. Righballs
aire alleged to have been drunk and
heaters visited.
IARKNESS HEIRS SUED
FOR $11,716,852 TAXES
,entucky Revenue Agent Would Col
lect Huge Sum in Courts.
By the Iaternatioal News Service.l
i t xington. Ky.. Nov. 24.-Asserting that
he defendants acknowledged homes in
'ayette County. Ky.. according to in
ome tax reports made to the govern
nent. Walton S. Byars. a revenue agent
or the State-at-large, of Louisville. to.
lay filed suit here against Mrs. Myrtle
1. Macomber, of California. for the cot
ection of taxes amounting to S',74,01
or five years, and against Mrs. Loto H
Cdwards, of Pittsburgh, for $5.742.80 for
he same time.
Both defendants are daughters of the
ate Ti V. Harkness, whose home i said
o be here and who died in February of
hIs year. It is also stated that Byari
sas a suit now pending against the L. V
larkness estate for the collection ei
axes on M.O,O.ML
Newport, R. I., Nov. !4.-..overmsani
lie-savers took four persoms from the
large Newark today after an al-igid~
pattle with a heavy sea The reemeen:
'apt. and Mr's. A. C, Anderson, of 3m'
my City, Beniamin Foley, of gmsta., and
'aul voight, of Jersey City. Ther iner'
n a we.aeed Coadition freC ezpase
mnd were hurried to a hospitaL.
WOUD JMWR JTNG 0511.
New York,, Nov. S.-How Uncle Sam
nay take a hand ia pailag down the hg
oat of living was eapilen today bs
'atrick Q. Foy, a State foed emprt. whe
devooate the ehartering ot Mared Geae
nan stamenist ia the p- et New Y.,t
or the transportation of beef tream Ar,
tentino and foodstuffe feom the Pa'
:ailc Coast,
.aM't New York
laNismer. ande Ohio, 13 la, rnm. i
HOOK DECISION
TO FACE TEST
Ra&load Agree to We Kan=a
City Ruling Reach Su-w
prme Curt.
The raliroads and the government have
rome to an agreemenit in the matter at
,Carrying the fight over the eight-howe
law to the Supreme Court. They have
decided to use the case decided by Judge
Ifook in Kansa City last Weolfsdep
as the vehicle for all their argemeute
for and against the law's castitution
ailty.
The agreenwnt to this effect we*
reached at Kansas City yesterday bV
repreaentatives of the a4 emary commit
tee of the railroad systee and the as
sistants of the attermey generals ooe.
IUnder the terms of this agreement bota
sides will appear before the Uuprease
Court when It reconvenes here on Decem
ber 4 and join In a plea to have the
case advanced so that there may be a
speedy decision.
In the meantime no moro suits attack
ing the law v.il bc begun by the rail
ways. and th- goternment will inatsttut
no prosecntions for failure to coMpTly
with the law until the decision of the
court is rendered.
Other Cases to masg Fler.
It is further agreed that the railways
will take no further action In any of the
cases now pending in the courts. and at
the same tire they will p!eparc fo, a de
cislon upholding, the in. Iy so arran2ing
their accounts that they may be abhe to
meet the demands for increased pay ments
to their employes provildcd for under the
law in the event that the Supreme Court's
decision is favorable to the government.
The agreement r-ea'-hed yesterday Is in
accordance with the terms of the stipula
tion entered into Thursday betacer the
Attorney General's office and the r.i -l
attorneys who have been h-t' in Int11r
ence over the uits. This tiulbtoi,a in
eluded nearly all the m.tter. v , ch .
in the agreement sianed yesterdea . I
the exception that the selecion e1 :
case to be used as a test was left to t1,0
railroad attorneys In Kansas I'ity a r
the understanding that if theyI fou1.
the Missouri. Oklahoma And G. lf :. -
way case, decided by Judt' Ho-: -
tained all the elements refsr- L
thorough preserntation of thec a
should be selected for the appe-i:
Supreme Court.
The selection teof the issour -ase a.
concession on the part of the ilwai I r.
the government's desire for a rye.u'
hearing before the Suprere Court t t et
the law's validity.
Pretgfef "aeger tiod.
The fralways preferred some - tIh - -1
involving larger interests. longer mileagr
and a greater diversity of eontra-ts s' I
had suggested that the Santa Fe or i'rn,
Pacific cases now pending in a .a -
before Judge Pollock would hc hroader -t
,scope and more suitable to a gen-il -
tack upon the law. It is und -ri 1- - -
ever that the agreement rea- h, d ie'
day will permit the rail -ti tu fle t-'
arguments in such manner a- to i", 1t1
all the objections to the law ard thee
will not be confined to the statemenite f
fact in the case heard by .Judge l1oo
Attorney General Gregorn was lensey'
pleased over the outcome ef the confer
ence between railway law:.ers and the a
'istnts of his ofice and realhilned lie
belief that it nill be possible ton obtain
a decision from the Supreme Cour' before
the first of the year.
It is the purpose of the Attorney Gen
cral's offe to allow all the other cases
now ,ending in the Federal court ;:
which the l1w is attacked to remain i
ptatu quo pending action by the 4uoremi
Court in the Missouri Oklahoma and Gut
came.
AUTO TRUCK KILLS
I MRS. A. C. CHAMBERS
Woman Knocked Down by Vehicle at
Tenth and K Streets.
Mrs. Anna C. Chambers. t years n!i.
living at 1101 K street northwest. w
knocked down and killed by an automohie
truck last night. Mrs. Chambers. who
as the wdow of W ater ,t Chambet .
Was crossing Tenth street at K s're I
nhen she was struck.
The front wheel of the truk paasse-1
over her body and the rear vcheel sto'e-d
while Fhe nas unde, it he wa! ;_ r-.moe-l.
in a passing automobile to Emiergen
?Hospital. where she died a f,-% momenta
after being placed on th, operat, g tabc.
Death was due to henoirhag. It was
found that ill the rib. on her right side
had heetn crushed.
Mrs. Chamber' vas the daughtcr of
Mr. and Mrs. William T. Turtin. for
many years residents if Washington.
The driver of the truck. Samuer
Brevato. 5 years old, Is being held by 11
police for investigation. Coroner Nevilt
will hold an inquest today to Inquire 4n:n
the cause of the accident.
I. W. W. AGITATOR FREED.
Paterson. N. J.. Nov. 2.-Patrick Quin
lan. the 1. W. W. agitator, who was sen
tenced to serve from 6 to 7 years in the
State penitentiary for maing an baam
mstory speech during the silk workes,'
strike hess sev-eral years ago, was freed
today W court order. The baaneof
his msenc was ranitted, and a fie
was paid by public suberptien.
AFFECTIOU WOETE $15,000.
Cleveland. Ohio, New. Si.-A jury in
Common Pleas Ceart late today awarded
Mrs. Mloree Lemt. Sturtevat, feemear
chamnpion matsr et Obie, .E dames
against J-ame= W. Startevamt sad wife.
bar parents-in-law, for "M-- et the
eettios o et e bes. -me W.
Ibreht. i. Mese e
33W IUE Umm.
e-a-en Wee. 3S,-A Petreweng esa
teday stated that Oe.. Tseg 4 kgm
ende Russian stemer. mm
1-ew Sermer who bnmwe
~aa---ls-. The abng in the
~ip is se to he e a
frthe Mberal dmat 9
Ik. em..et of the m...re a. k..
edieurmed amt Demeer S.
Te, 2:0 . so o
auit;,eMew TaQ Q40
