luii^wipimyiswiii^^ ^ in
' ^ Fair ton, continued if ^ ^ L^TLlf r\ X-jf "From Pre** to Homo
cold temperature M A yA jfl Im A A ? ^ ? 4 >Al/ R )i( fl
moderMe "winds. I I Ml/ { * 1/lTTlT tflf | lYV' MSB Within the JfoOT*
'Wi-e^aT4h?pT m.f yl Ir 71 I I r I I I I I I I I rl I *=
. IfiriJV / l/VI IM 1
^ S V- \?/ 1?1?, Dally A re race. TUlli Inlay. Hart.
No. 29,513. WASHINGTON, D. C., SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
GERMANS SQUEEZE
RUMANIA'S ARMIES
* AT VARIOUS POINTSj
Cross Alt and Apparently Have
Turned This Strong Line
of Defense.
VON MACKENSEN FORCES
CROSSING THE DANUBE
I
Within Seventy Miles of Bucharest, i
Villages Seized Below Rothenthurm
Pass.
By the Associated Press.
The process of squeezing- Rumania between
the jaws of ihe Teutonic military
machine is proceeding with notable rapidity.
Pushing eastward after their capture
of Craiova and the conquest of Little
k Wallachia. Gen. von Falkenhayn's troops
" have broken Rumanian resistance in the
valley of the lower Alt and apparently
already have turned this supposedly
strong line of defense across western Rumania.
to which the Rumanians had retreated.
A crossing of the Alt in this
^ region is reported by Berlin.
Concurrently. Field Marshal von Mackensen.
operating the ot??er jaw of the
nutcracker, has forced a passage of the
Danube near Zimnitza. giving him a footing
on Rumanian soil twenty-five miles in
the rear of the Danube end of the Alt
line, which touches the river near TumuMagurele.
The landing at Zimnitza also
places von Mackensen but seventy miles
from Bucharest to the northeast.
Several Villages Captured.
On the northern end of the Alt line,
where the Teutonic armies have been
pressing down from Rothenthurm pass,
further inroads on the Rumanian de
fenses have been effected, according to
Berlin, which records the capture of
several villages, despite a strong effort
by the Rumanians to retain them.
The Petrograd statement admits a Rumanian
retreat here. On the frontier
of Moldavia the Germans report the
repUi e o. a Russo-Rumanian offensive
movement in Gyergyo mountains.
T?.e Rumanian forces which were
I operating in the Orsova region evidently
have retreated into the mountains
rMtr.hean o Tu. nu Severin, as Berlin
reports Rumanian battalions there
"cut off from the main army." They
a.e still making stubborn resistance,
the German statement says, but apparently
they have no recourse but
ultimate surrender to escape extinction.
V Rumanian Battalions
in Turnu Severin Region
o.a r\tt
UUl UN, Del III I MVcl o
By the Associated Press.
BERLIN, November 25, by wireless to
Sayville.?The German official statement
reads:
"Front of Archduke Joseph:^ In the
Gyergo mountains a hostile attack on J
Batcane Jagra was sanguinarily re- !
pulsed.
"South of the Alt pass through the I
Transylvania All s. several towns were
captured by German and Austro-ilun- i
garian troops, despite the tenacious re- (
sistance of the Romanians. Three offi
cers and S?>0 men were made prisoner. ;
"The enemy s resistance in the low- j
lands of the lower Alt was broken. We i
have crossed the river there.
"On the western frontier of Rumania :
in the wooded mountain^ northeast of i
Turnu Severin, Rumanian battalions cut I
off from the main army are stiil offering
' tenacious resistance.
"Front of Field Marshal Maekensen
?Dobrudja?: There has been reciprocal;
artillery firing. I
"The forces of the allied central pow
ers, after crossing the I>anube from 'he \
south, gained a footing on Rumanian
p soil. Near Racovitza civilian natives
again participated in the fighting against
our troops."
Advance of Germans
Over Danube Checked,
Is Claim of Bucharest I
BUCHAREST. November 25. via London,
-1 p.m.?The war office announces
that the advanc. of German troops which
crossed th?- l?anube river has been arrested.
A crossing of the Danube was effected
at Isiaez, r.t ar the mouth of the river
Alt, as well as at Zimnitza.
In the OUeriic valley, the statement
adds, the Rumanians have withdrawn
from the left hank of the Oltetz river.
Islands in the Danube
Occupied by Bulgarians,
Says Sofia War Office
t By the A?*j< PreH.
SOFIA, November 25. ? Bulgarian
troops have or cupied islands In the
Danube southeast of Craiova, according
to an official statement issued by
the war office today. The statement
follows:
\ "In the Dobrudja enemy detachments
in r uperior numbers approached our
positions, but were repulsed by our artillery
fire. A!"iig the Danube near
Sllistria. Turtukai and Rustchuk there
was artillery fighting. Near Glgen,
Orehovo. Lomand and Vadin detachments
of our troops occupied islands In
the Danube."
Rumanian Force Cut Off Is Small.
AMSTERDAM, Holland, November 25,
via London. ? A telegram from the
Rumanian front to the Cologne Volkszeitung,
dated Wednesday, November
22, says the Rumanian battalions at
Orsova, cut off from retreat to Craiova,
constituted comparatively a small
force.
WILLIAM HABEIS DIES.
Often Was Styled "Dean of Thear
trical Managers.''
NEW YORK, November 25.?Wllliain
Harris, one of New York's best
known theatrical producers, died today
at his home at Bayside, Long Island.
0 He was seventy-one years old.
Mr. Harris was often referred to as
the "dean of theatrical managers." His
eon, Henry B. Harris, was lost in the
^ffltaalo disaster*
!VILU BEATEN OFF
AGAIN BY TREVINO
I _____
Third Day's Attack by Bandits.
on Chihuahua Said to
Have Failed.
LOSSES SAID TO BE HEAVY:
By the Associated Press.
JUAREZ. Mexico. November L'5.?The i
Villa bandits again were repulsed early j
today by the Carranza forces defend- j
ins Chihuahua City, according to a j
message received at military head- j
quarters here.
The message said the repulse was,
even more decisive than those of yesterday
and Thursday, the bandits being
driven clear of the suburbs after desperate
efforts to penetrate to the heart j
of the city and take it by storm.
Bandits Attack at Daybreak.
JUAREZ. Mex., November 25.?Francisco
Villa and his bandit forces resumed
the attack on Chihuahua City.
Mex., at daybreak today, according to
dispatches from the Chihuahua capital
to Carranza officials here, marking the
opening of the third day's fighting in
Villa's effort to tvrest the capital from
Gen. Jacinto B. Trevino's constitutionalist
forces.
The bandit army lost heavily in the
attacks made on Thursday and Friday,
a Carranza officer declared, adding that
the government troops had remained
loyal
Villa's attack yesterday continued
intil 9 o'clock last night, the of
ficials said. Gen. Ozuna, commanding
government forces late yesterday, was
said to have pursued a bandit column
for some distance outside the city. In
4he meantime another body of Villa
followers appeared from another quarter
and attacked. Later it was stated
Ozuna returned to the city with his
command. There was nothing to indicate
that the fighting was on a large
scale.
Might Win From North.
High hills are located immediately
east, west and south of Chihuahua
City. Santa Rosa hill has been fortified,
and the repeated efforts of the |
bandits to take this stronghold are said
to have been unsuccessful. North of
the city an open plain stretches for
several miles, and it was from this
quarter that Villa made his raid September
16. The possibility exists. Carranza
officials said, that Villa might
invade Chihuahua City from the north,
and they maintained that it would be
impossible for him to hold the'town
against Gen. Trevino's artillery mounted
on Santa Rosa hill.
It is said Villa's apparent retreat
early yesterday afternoon was a mili- j
tary ruse. After Gen. Ozuna pursued
a force of the bandits for some distance
another large body of bandits appeared
in another quarter and again attacked
the city.
Attack Along Dry Wash. i
The fighting yesterday, as far as can
be learned from the brief military messages
which have come over the federal
wire and from the more amplified Asso- 1
eiated Press dispatches, was centered
around the eastern sector of the defen ive
wApbe Prnminf alnne a rlrv wash from
the direction of Santa Eulalia. to the ea t
o* capital, the bandits opened their
attack at 6 a.m. upon the infantry inr
oiched behind breastworks extending
along the plains to the ea?t. Upon being
repulsed with rifle, machine gun and
hrapnel fire the bandits made a wide detour
and swung off to the northwest on
their cow ponies. This attack co itinu d 1
until after 9 o'clock and followed an ear y
morning attempt of the bandjts to capture
Santa Rosa hill to the southeast of
the town and obtain possession of the ,
-annon upon the crown of this hill.
Other fighting was reported during the
lay from the northwest, in the vicinity
of La.a Escobas ranch, and to the south. :
where Gen. Apolonio Trevino. with his
cavalry, made an effort to cut off the I
Villa bandits from their trains, which
were left between Mapula and Horcasitas
on the Mexican Central line.
Villa General Is Killed.
Gen. Julio Acosta, one of Villa's
chiefs, was killed in a cavalry charge
on the first day's fighting Wednesday,
and Villa's private secretary, Andres
Sada, also was killed. Villa's losses
are variously estimated at from 500 to
800 dead and as many more wounded.
Among the wounded yesterday was
Gov. Francis Trevino, brother of Gen.
Trevino, who was shot in the hand.
Two officers of Gen. Trevino's general
staff have been killed. The body of J
Gen. Julio Acosta was found to the ;
west of the city, as was the body of j
Andres Sada, Villa's secretary,
j (Jen. Acosta was killed in action by .
' Col. Cadera of the Carranza cavalry
column. Gen. Trevino. though wounded
Wednesday, was again in persona!
i command yesterday and made an in|
spection of the fortifications with his ;
I staff.
An American merchant here received j
a telegram from his brother in Chihuahua
yesterday, saying:
"We are all well and everything here
1 is O. K."
?
STEAMER POWHATAN AFIRE.
Blaze in Hold Subdued Eefore Sum
moned Help Arrives.
BOSTON, November 25.?The steamer I
Powhatan, of the Merchants and Miners j
line, which left Boston last niKht for j
Baltimore with sixteen passengers and |
a general carxo. caught lire early today I
; off Block island. She immediately sent !
j out a call for help, but before coast '
gruard cutters had reached the scene '
C'apt. Chase had reported the fire, which j
was In the forward hold, was under j
control, and that the vessel had an
I chored in Block Island harbor.
r\ tuaai u urn n "ill llic .\cv\
Shoreham station went aboard of the
Powhatan and reported that the Are
had been confined to a part of the
curgo No attempt was made to remove
the passengers, as it was believed they
I a ere at no time in danger.
Conservation
of Paper
Every citizen is called upon to sec
that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
school children's playground fund.
Call Main 6036 and ask for the
nearest public school to your home
and the old papers will b? sent for.
VEXING PROBLEM
UP TO CONGRESS
Proposed Embargo on Foodstuffs
to Reduce the
Cost of Living.
DIVISION OF SENTIMENT
"Feed America first."
This is to be the slogan of the proponents
of the embargo on foodstuffs
to reduce the cost of the necessaries of '
life, which is alleged to be unwarrantably
excessive. The sentiment promises
to be very attractive to some elements
of the population and highly objectionable
to others.
By way of illustration: The National
Grange, meeting in this city, yesterday
adopted resolutions deprecating the
proposed embargo, and in the very
same hour the American Federation of i
Labor, in session in Baltimore, heartily
indorsed It.
Commercial and exporting interests
in the eastern cities are already lining
up with the farmers to resist the embargo.
The labor unions, having an i
organization, will fight the battle for
the rank and file of small-salaried people
who may be in sympathy with the
embargo or for anything that will
bring their daily bread within approximate
reach of their incomes.
Problem for Congress.
Congress will find itself between the
upper and nether millstones of these
conflicting interests. On Capitol Hill
it is intimated that perhaps Congress
will wriggle from under the pressure
by ordering an "investigation" of coldstorage
methods, of reported hoarding
of sunnlios for hicher nrices and of
possible conspiracies to hoist prices. )
The "investigation" is a time-honored
expedient of Congress to "side-step" a
crisis and frequently resorted to when
the national legislative body found
itself between two fires or in a state
of uncertainty itself.
A new angle of the situation has
been presented by the claim that the
alleged shortage in food, upon which
the increased prices are blamed, is not
due to exports to the warring nations
of Europe. A New York city bank,
which maintains an extensive statistical
bureau, presided over by Oscar P.
Austin, formerly statistician of the
Treasury Department in Washington,
has given out a statement which insists
that in point of fact the exports i
for the month of September, 1916, were
less than the exports for the corresponding
mor.th in 1915.
Whe.it Cited as Example.
Taking the .staple of wheat as the first
illustration, it was shown that the exports
for last September were 13,108.000
bushels against 21.526,000 in September.
1915, while for the nine months ending in
September the exports were 113.312,000 in
1916 and 161.761,000 the previous nine
months.
Statistics of other staples included in
the table were as follows:
Staples. 1916. 1015.
Fresh beef (lbs.) 6.676.000 18,468.000
Pickled beef (lbs.) 2.481.000 4.022.000
Hams and shoultb-rs (lbs.>. 17,424,000 17,762.000
P.ekled pork (lbs.) . 3.715,000 6,580.000
Potatoes (bushels) ......... 429,000 720.00U
Dried apples (lbs.) 10,143,000 27,466.000
lireen apples (barrels) 604,000 1,286,000
Inference Drawn.
The obvious inference to be drawn
rom this table, it is contended, is that
he present crisis is not due to exports.
out is attributable to some domestic
ondition. There have been reports
.I'om many sections that farmers are
withholding their wheat and potatoes
. orn market. waiting- for higher prices,
xnd there is said to be unquestioned
evidence that cold storage plants in all
.?e !u.fge Cities uie packed with perishable
commodities. In New York city
t.ie olhcials are now making an inquiry
and have at the outset developed that
here is no shortage of staples.
By this time the story is well known
>i one man in Chica.ro who has 72,-00,000
eggs in cold storage and snaps
lis fingers at the Department of Justice
the while he openly announces his
intention to "make the public pay his
price.'
New York commercial Interests, in
heir fight against an embargo on foodstuffs,
which would injure their foreign
^rade, are now asking why an embargo
should not he iaiu on leather, to lower
.he cost of shoes, or on cotton to bring
iown the price of many lines of manufacturers
entering Into tne daily ana
necessary use of the people; or on
metal, which is soaring also.
Farmers Issue Statement.
The farmers, through their National
Grange in session here, yesterday gave
out a statement designed to exculpate
the agriculturists from blame for the
high cost of food products. Nine principal
heads of subjects were included
in the "farmers' brier* in explanation
of the increased cost of foot! supplies.
The first was a claim of shortage of
crops due to unfavorable climatic conditions.
The second plea in bar was that the
farmer himself feels the higher cost
of living in that he has to pay more
for his fertilizer, his farm machinery,
his labor and ail the supplies that he
buys, even including flour and In many
cases meat.
The tnira count charges tne dwellers
in the city with extravagance, due to
their living in cramped quarters, cooking
in kitchenettes and buying their
supplies out of cartons and tins, which
necessarily increases the cost, the same
as when coal is bought by the bushel
instead of by the ton.
The economic waste of the European
war is set down as a fourtli cause of
high prices here, while for the fifth
count the "brief" falls back upon the
old cry of restriction by the trusts and
the monopolies. Other excuses are:
Increase of farm pests destroying the
crops, speculation in food products, insufficient
number of storage warehouses
under the control of the farmers
arid Jack of market facilities in cities.
Another Angle Presented.
And here is still another angle to the
vexing problem. Comes Mr. Thorn,
general counsel for the Southern railway.
before the Newlands senatorial
committee yesterday, and suggests that
inadequate transportation facilities add
to the high cost of commodities of
daily consumption. There are not
enough railroads to transport the
kindly fruits of the earth, for which
?V>.. .. 1, ?? nil 1 cinnn It A criven
The American Fede.ation of Labor,
meeting In Baltimore yesterday, did not
attempt any psychological study of
causes, but struck directly at etrecta
and adopted a short and crisp resolution.
putting it up to President Wilson
and Congress to clap on an embargo
untjj America is fed first.
The resolution recited the fact that
flour is higher than at any time sinethe
civil war, while all other food
staples are increasing so rapidly as to
iOMrtiMti on Second Pago?>
I
s
- -=r- \
? ??-A o ^
-- \ o V*
" \
A ***V7 ?
?? <fgsr^
^ 2^bss.o?5^
^ 11^.
\ tkNWV<. ^
S0 f\
<^^<^?'> 2> *?''X
^5^s&?
N
D. C. MEN ON BORDER
EXPECT EARLY MH
In National Capital by Christmas,
Is View Taken by More
Optimistic.
by j. crosby McCarthy,
Staff Correspondent.
CAMP WILSON, District of Co- \
lumbia National Guard Camp, San
Antonio, Tex., November 24.?The
signing- of the protocol by the American
and Mexican conferees and
its probable effect on the removal of
militia troops from the border country
is foremost In the minds of the soldiers
from the District of Columbia today.
Hopes of getting home by Christmas
have been revived by the latest developments
in the Atlantic City conference.
By Christmas, Say Optimists.
The District militiamen now believe
that a general homeward movement of
the militia will be started within the
next few days if the provisions of the
protocol are approved and it becomes
effective. They feel that before the
withdrawal of Gen. Pershing's column
is begun the militia regiments will receive
their orders to start home.
Many are confident that December 25
will see them back in Washington, but
there are others who feel that if the
first come, first go policy is followed
ri sending the regiments back home, it
nay be New Year before they see the
National Capital again. The problem of
rapaportation will make it impossible
to get all the militia units back before
.hat time, they believe.
Theater Folk Entertained.
Officers of the 3d Regiment entertained
a party of actors and actresses at !
noon mess yesterday, and showed the
itage folks something of army life.
Last night they were the guests of
he theatrical people at a supper on the
stage following the performance.
The District militiamen are looking
forward with great interest to a foot
ball game to be played this afternoon
between teams of the 3d Regiment and
the 2d West Virginia. Practically the
whole District re giment is expected to
turn out In a body and attend the conest,
which will be staged on the field ;
at Fort Sam Houston.
. I
HOPE TO PREVENT HANGING, j
Kansans Object to Execution of Ne-:
gro Soldier by United States.
TOPEKA, Kan.. November 25.?A cam- j
paign headed by Gov. Arthur Capper was j
started here today to prevent the hanging
of William White, a negro soldier, at the
federal prison in Leavenworth on November
30. White was convicted of killing
another negro in Fort Leavenworth and
now is under sentence of death in the
county jail here.
There has not been a legal federal
hanging in Kansas in twenty-five years
and it has been nearly fifty years since
the state has had a legal execution. State
laws now forbid capital punishment and a
plea is to be made to President Wilson
that a hanging on the government reservation,
although legal, will conflict with
the sentiment throughout the state.
Andrew Carnegie Eighty-One Today.
NEW YORK, November 25.?Andrew
Carnegie is eighty-one years old today.
He planned to spend the day 1
with his family at his home here, to '
receive a few friends in the afternoon j
and to partake of a birthday dinner !
tonight. Mr. Carnegie's friends say he
Is in good health.
Mn. Boissevain's Condition.
LOS ANGELES, Cal., November 25.?
Renewed effort to improve by blood
transfusion the condition of Mrs. Inez
Millholland Boissevain of New York
resulted in no change during the night,
according to physicians today. Mrs.
Boissevain has been ill with anemia
several week*.
\ gets KNNK*
tA \NvtwoviT ^ETVVV^GV^^;^ ^ "
""*u
?sfS?ij^
[ORE WATCHFUL WAITING
STRONGLY URGE WORKERS1!
. TO OBTAIN 8-HOUR DAY
A. F. of L. Committee, in Report,
Wants All to Make Effort.
r- j
President Wilson Commended. j
BALTIMORE, November 25.?All !
workers, organized and unorganized, ' i
were strongly urged to concentrate j <
their efforts to procure an eight-hour j i
work day at the earliest possible time j
in a committee report adopted by the i <
American Federation of Labor convention
today. The report pledged "the ! |
unswerving support of the American j
labor movement to the eight-hour prin- j ?
cfple." It recommended that a special ,
committee be appointed to confer on : ;
the subject with the organized em- j ,
ployes of the transportation companies j ,
and report not later than four weeks i <
before the next annual convention of j (
the federation. j.
Three resolutions for a universal I <
eight-hour day by both industrial and |
legislative action had been referred to j <
the resolutions committee, whose re- |
pert was submitted as a substitute. ( ?
Mayor-elect Thomas Van 1 ?>ar of j ?
Minneapolis, Minn., an international or- j
-anize. or the machinists' union, in j
urging that the convention commit it- j
self to legislative action, declared that j
"the President of the United States has I .
sensed the feeling of the workers better
than we have." In adopting the 1
committee's report, he added, the con- <
vention would be "sidestepping the (
backing up of the President."
Election of officers and the selection '
of next year's meeting place was set ]
for this afternoon. Port Worth, Tex.;
Buffalo. Rochester and Norfolk. Va., are
contestants for the 1917 convention.
W. Hays, secretary of the Interna- : ;
tfonnl Typo^crnphical Union, has an- :
nounced his candidacy, in opposition to j
Frank Morrfron, the present secretary
of tlie federation. i ,
___________________________________________________ j i
1
| TOMORROW
"THANKSGIVING PROCLAMATIONS"
?Unci"! Sam has originals of many ,
famous ones, including those of the
revolution, of the civil war and 1
Lincoln's proclamation after the j
battle of Gettysburg. I j '
"TIME?AND THE WIND-UP," a story 1
cf" < oM^elling interest, by MARY i ,
8YN0N.
"THANKSGIVING DAY WITH OUR ! I
TOGO'S ON THE BORDER"?Real I
Thanksgiving dinners will be pro- j ,
vided. with sixteen ounces of tur- j
key for each man.
"HOW I HELPED MY HUSBAND"?A I ;
number of letters which tell the
story of woman's supreme struggle |
and achievement. | J
"SHE LOOKS AFTER THE RIGHTS j
OF INDIAN HEIRS"?A woman
examines all Indian wills and sees 1
that justice is done the lawful j ]
heirs. j : <
"TiftRR nv wab " nhotoeraphs of these I i <
faithful, fearless friends of man at I j
the front in Europe. ; j ,
' "PROPOSED KINGDOM OF ARABIA , J
SEEKS ADMISSION AS A MOHAMMEDAN
MEMBER OF THE FAMILY
OF NATIONS," by CHARLES j
M. PEPPER. 1
' THE FEMALE BANDIT OF BURRO
FLATS." an exciting story, by j '
AUSTIN GILL. 1
"DESCENDANTS OF THE WILD TUR- ' 5
RJlY IN THE UNITED STATES"? I | <
A number of interesting facts about j
your Thanksgiving day bird, by j 1 i
JAMIS B. MORROW. ,
"WHY HAS MY STOCK DECLINED?"
by ALBERT W. ATWOOD.
"8IMPLE STREET FROCKS AND
GORGEOUS EVENING GOWNS."
by ANNE RITTENHOUSE.
"THE RAMBLER WRITES OF OLD
HOMES AND TOMBSTONES."
"CHRISTIANIZING THE INDIANS '
AND ESKIMOS OF ALASKA." by ^
I RANK G. CARPENTER. t
"PLAN FOR A COMPLETE RENAISSANCE
IN FRANCE AFTER THE
WAR." by 8TERLING HEILIG. 1
"GIVE YOUR SECOND WIND A
8H0W." and "SURGERY'S 8PLEN- I
Din HOUR." and "THE WAY TO 1
WIN AND LOSE IN BUSINESS."
and "A BASKET FOR POVERTY !
LANE." by HERBERT KAUFMAN.
IN THE
SUNDAY STAR ]
IIJ
ip>'
7
^ "'Vr/^/rV"*"* ?' *s%*'r /C<
, j
GAS LIGHT VALUATIONS
ANNOUNCED BY BOARD
Utilities Commission Has Tentative
Reports for Washington and
Georgetown Companies.
Tentative valuations were announced
Loday by the public utilities commission
for the Washington and Georgetown
Gas Light companies.
Contained in the reports of Dr. Edward
W. Bemis, director of the valuation
bureau of the commission, the
findings are as follows:
Washington Gas Light Company?
rotal value, as shown by books of the
company, $13,277,213.28: engineer's report
as to cost of reproducing new the
existing physical property of the com- j
pany in the District, $10,479,196.44. and !
2ost of reproduction new, less depre-;
?iat!on, $8,347,560.17.
Georgetown Gas Light Company?
rotal value, as shown by books of the!
"ompany. $1,477,812.31; engineer's re-,
port as to cost of reproducing new the!
existing physical property of the corn-I
pany in the District. $977,472.13. and
;ost of reproduction new, less depreciation,
$806,946.89.
For Plant and Equipment.
The oceounting report shows the
amount expended in plant 'and equipment
of the Washington Gas Light
Company to be $5,411,299.54, exclusive!
of property sold, scrapped and aban-j
Joned, and of any extraordinary ex- j
penses, patent rights, etc., as well as of ,
franchise values and any increases in >
value due to certain appraisals in !
1903 and 1909. The excluded items
Amount* to $7,865,913.74.
In the case of the Georgetown company
the accounting report shows that
the amount expended in plant and
squipment was $644,346.22, which does
lot include property sold, scrapped and
Abandoned, the amount charged to
plant and equipment to meet stock
jividends, nor any increase in value;
if the plant and equipment due to ap-j
praisals. These excluded items amount!
to $833,466.09.
Copies of the reports were sent by j
the commission today to the two com-i
panies. Hearing on the Washington;
Cas Light Company valuation lias been
set for February 1, and on the Georgetown
valuation February 5.
PLEA FOR EARLY SHIPPING.
Express Companies Expect Record 1
Holiday Business This Year.
NiCW YORK, November 25.?"The
'finer;! 1 nrnsneritv ^
r ? .vj V1. (.lie (.UU1UI)' pi'UIIIises
to make the coming Christmas the !
most commercially active the country
has ever known," says a plea issued by
express companies today for "early
Christmas shipping."
"Although this crisis arises every
tear as regularly as the holidays come
ilong," the notice reads, "the extraor- i
iinary conditions of transportation pre- j
/ailing at the present time accentuate !
.ho need for early shipping this year, j
"The railroads already are'working
ander pressure, but it is believed that
with the holiday shipping season
stretched over the entire month of De:ember
more adequate service can be
given than if the entire Christmas
movement is jammed into the week irn
neuiateiy preceding: Christmas.
Road Suspends for Want of Cars.
KEYSER, W. Va., November 25.?The 1
rwin Mountain and Potomac railroad
mspended operations for two days this
veek owing to lack of coal for the lo- i
:omotives caused by a shortage in cars
snd Inability on the part of operators
n the Fairmont district to fill the
danding orders of the line. The raiload
operates between Keyser and Ilurington.
Closes Early for Thanksgiving.
The War Department will close at 1
j'clock next Wednesday, Thanksgiving
sve. and all the employes will receive
:he balance of their month's pay before
Aqj^houa
/
WANTS STANDARD
SET FOR CARRIERS
A. P. Thorn Tells Congressional
Committee U. S. Should
Regulate Efficiency.
AID TO NATIONAL DEFENSE
Adequate transportation facilities as
a part of a system of national defense
can be had only by an Improvement
in methods of railway regulation in
this country, A. P. Thorn, general
counsel of the railway executives' advisory
committee, today told the Newlands
joint congressional committee
investigating the whole subject of
transportation.
Mr. Thorn argued that it is the duty
of the federal government to establish
a standard of efficiency in transportation
and commerce from the standpoint
of national defense. He strongly urged
upon the committee the necessity of
concentrating authority over the railroads
in the hands of the federal gov
eminent, on the ground that each state
has a right to be protected by the Impartial
regulation of interstate carriers
by the government against the differing
views of other states.
The lessons taught by the Europeaji
war, he said, show that transportation
lies at the very base of national efficiency.
He contended that as the duty
of national defense is imposed upon
the national government it is illogical
and inefficient to keep from the national
government the authority to establish
a standard of efficiency in transportation.
Must Be Efficient, He Says.
"We must be efficient as a nation if
we are to deal successfully with our
national emergencies," Mr. Thorn said,
"and we must appreciate that efficient
transportation is an essential condition
of national efficiency. If we are
to halt and weaken our transportation
system by state lines, by the permanent
imposition of burdens by unwise
regulation, we will make national
efficiency impossible.
"Js it wise/' he asked, "for us to subject
a matter of such universal concern
and such great national importance
to the uncertain policies and
inadequate outlook of the states? The
progress of events and the growth of
the nation emphasize *he wisdom and
necessity of reposing the power of
commercial regulation, which so essentially
involves the rational interest
and national efficiency in the hands
of the authority which is alone responsible
to all the people for the
preservation of our national liberty."
Mr. Thorn contended that the regulation
of interstate commerce by the federal
government would be "no violation
of the rights of the states, no invasion
of their prerogatives, and in no sense
in derogation of their *eserved sovereignty.
but in reality is merely the
specific performance of the "ontract
which each state bargained fo when
it subscribed to the Constitution.
"It is the covenanted right of each of
them, as well as in their highest interest,"
he said, "that the commerce in
which each is interested and the Instrumentalities
on which successful
national defense depends shall be regulated
by the fair and impartial authority
which alone springs from and is
responsible to them all."
State Commigpions Useful.
It is no Dart of the nurnose of nnv
suggestion of the railroads, he said, to
inaugurate a policy of abolition or obstruction
of state commissions. On the
contrary, a large field of usefulness
must in any event be presented to them.
Nor would there by any contention,
he said, that a mere simplification of a
system of regulation would be a complete
remedy for the difficulties of the
present situation, but it would be a step
in the direction of a solution, because
it would concentrate responsibility at
'he same time it concentrated power. It
would make regulation more businesslike
by removing it from the influence
of local policies and politics.
"It would furnish a surer basis for
the confidence of the investing public,'*
.Mr. Thorn said, "because more reliance
could be put upon the judgment of the
whole nation as affecting a matter of
nation-wide consequence than could be
placed in the varying judgment of different
local authorities, but it will be
necessary to go much further than
merely simplifying and concentrating
regulation. It will be necessary to introduce
into the system of regulation
by the national government those elements
of constructiveness and helpfulness
which are essential to the continued
growth and efficiency of the instrumentalities
of commerce."
Mr. Thorn then presented the suggestions
as to the principles which the
railroads believe should be included in
any just system of regulation. The
principal features of the plan ar<j:
Points for Regulation.
1. The entire power and duty of regulation
should be iir the hands of the national
government except as to matters
so essentially local and incidental that
they cannot be used to interfere with the
efficiency of the service or the just rights
of the carriers.
9 As one of the means of accomplish
ing this a system of federal incorporation
should be adopted "into which should be
brought all railroad corporations engaged
in interstate or foreign commerce.
3. Reorganization of the interstate commerce
commission and the creation of a
new federal railroad commission and regional
commissions subordinated to it.
4. Interstate commerce commission
should he given power to prescribe minimum
rates.
o. The power of the commission to suspend
rates should be confined to sixty
days from the time the tariff is filed, instead
of ten months, as at present.
6. The federal government should have
the exclusive governmental power to
supervise the issuance of securities by
interstate carriers.
To Take Stand Monday.
Mr. Thorn ended the opening statement
before the committee for the railroads.
rie Win gu "ic ?>lo.j?u again ?*ivxiday,
however, subject to examination
by the members of the committee.
Before concluding? his remarks today
Mr. Thorn said that the railroads would
not introduce the subject of their relations
with labor at this time.
"It may be that Congress will have to
confront and deal with this question,
either before this committee or some
other committee, but it ought to be met
when it arises, not now.
$150,000 Fire in Indianapolis.
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind., November 25.?
The Capital Paper Company, 115 South
Pennsylvania street, was destroyed by
Are early today, the loss being: estimated
at 1150,000. The Are was spectacular
and the firemen were hindered
?>y falling walls. Two men were ^lightly
hurt. _ _
4t
FEAR HAIf HOUDAY
PROiECT MAY FAIC
Opposition Evinced in Cabinet
Causes Apprehension Among
Government Workers.
OFFICIALS ARE RETICENT
Apprehension was felt among gov.
ernment employes In Washington today
that because of the opposition
developed In the cabinet meeting yesterday
to an all-the-year Saturday
holiday the movement favoring each
an order from the White House may
be considerably delayed and possibly
defeated.'
Cabinet members today were decidedly
reticent about wliat took place on
the subject In tho cabinet meeting
They fell back upon the rule that eubjects
discussed In the cabinet are not
tv uu Munvu wi u LOiuv.
Regarded as Significant.
There were intimations that If th#
President had received favorable re*
ports from all his cabinet officer* he
would have promptly Issued an executive
order granting the half holiday.
Under the circumstances It Is
feared that he will hesitate at this
time. His policy for four years has
been to withhold his approval of any
ma'ter before the administration until
bis cabinet officers joined heartily with
him. Personally he is known to favor
a half holiday, but he Is said to feel
that he would not like to Issue an
order if some of the department chiefs
believed that the government's business
would be crippled or Interfered
with by the loss of time of half a day
for nine months in the year.
The exact line-up of the cabinet Is
not definitely known, although at least
six members have, through interviews
or otherwise, put themselves on record
as favoring the half-holiday. These
are Secretaries McAdoo, Lansing, Baker.
Redfleld, Wilson and Attorney General
Gregory. Messrs. Gregory and Baker
take the position that the long-exist
ing law manes every saturaay a Holiday
after 12 o'clock.
Postmaster General Is Opposed.
Postmaster General Burleson has
been recorded for some time as emphatically
opposed, mainly upon tlfe
! ground that the business of the country
would not take kindly to the delays it
is claimed would result to mail deliveries
and dispatch with a Saturday
half-holiday.
Secretary Daniels has been put down
first as favoring and then opposing the
; proposition, principally owing to the
ihuge amount of extra work entailed
j throughout all branches of his department
by the recent preparedness legislation.
Secretaries Houston and Lane have
stated that they did not c?r<Tto discuss
the subject while their reports upon it
were before the President* and have
declined to indicate how they stand, although
it has long been understood
that Mr. Lane was strongly favorable
to giving government employes the half
holiday.
SCHOOLS HERE FACING
COAL SHORTAGE AGAIN
May Be Forced to Close if Cold
j Weather Continues Into Next
Week, It Is Said.
With the present cold snap, the pubI
lie schools here are again threatened
j with having to close because of a shortage
in coal. Persons in close touch
with the situation today denied published
reports to the effect that the
schools "have a fairly plentiful supply
of coal." An effort to use hard coal has
not been entirely successful for two
reasons?first, it is not possible to get
much more hard coal than soft, and,
secondly, because hard coal cannot be
used in some of the larger buildings,
including new Central High, McKinley
Manual Training, Armstrong Manual
Training and Dunbar High Schools.
The situation, so far as can be learned,
is still characterized as a "hand10-mouth"
one. For today and tomorrow
the schools are in no difficulties,
nasmuch as the schools are closed and
the fires "banked." If the cold snap
continues over next week, however,
particularly in the event that a strong
wind should blow, the schools are like
iy to De piacea in n preaicameuu
NERATOFF IS APPOINTED
RUSS FOREIGN MINISTER
LONDON, November 25.?The appoint*
ment of M. Neratoff, assistant Russian
! minister for foreign affaire, as foreign
j minister, is reported by neuter's Petroi
grad correspondent. M. Neratoff re;
places Boris Sturmer, who held the for*
! eign portfolio as well as the premiez*
ship.
The change in the Russian premier*
ship has been received here with ths
keenest interest. The Daily News says:
"The most important fact in the whols
| matter is that the pro-German agitai
tion which has lately been going on in
i Russia has now been finally crushed."
A somewhat similar position is taken
! by the Chronicle, which says: "The fall
of Premier Sturmer was due to criticism
on two grounds. First, the disorgani*
zation of the Russian food supply; seo*.
' ond. the alleged attempt to promote &
I patched-up peace.
"Regarding the latter criticism, wo
j can only say that, whatever the facts
j may have been, the history of the past
j ten days has shown that the duma and
the army are entirety again^i ouca ?
peace, and have the same conviction re?
garding the need of a decisive vlctorjg
as England and France."
SAYS BALLOTS WERE ST0LE5,
Candidate Presents Unique Issne to
West Virginia Court.
CHARLESTON. W. Va.. November
25.?The West Virginia supreme court of
appeals has been asked to determine
whether county courts acting as canvassers
of election returns have the right or
may be compelled to take evidence and
determine from it the returns from a
precinct the ballots from which havo
been destroyed.
The question came up in connection
with a petition filed by Herbert Sanders*
candidate for sheriff in Wyoming county,
who charged that the ballots from ono
precinct were stolen and destroyed, tha
