... , .ttlf. - m I
THE WEATHER FORECAST. "
t ' Mr and colder to-day; to-morrow fair,
with slowly: riting temperature.
Higher tempcratvra yesterday, 53 ; lowttt, 35.
Detailed weather, mail and marine report on page II.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO, 86.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER ?5, 1916. CopirlpDf. 111, y Printing and PutlMUng Aseoctattoa,
"IMP riTTixTm la Greater New Yrk, I Elsewhere
UINEj lfjiNl Jrraer Cltr sad Newark. TWO CENTS.
MEXICAN PEACE
PACT SIGNED tit
THE CONFEREES
Pershing to Come Out in 40
Days if the Bonier Is
Safe From Raids.
U.S. HOLDS RIGHT TO
ENTER AFTER BANDITS
Aid of the American Gov
ernment Promised in Up
building of Nation.
PROTOCOL ON WAY
TO CHIEF CARRANZA
Commission Will Take Up
Other Matters if Terms
Are Agreed On.
Atlantic Citt, N. J.. Nov. 24. With
elaborate ceremony a protocol provid
ing for tho withdrawal of the American
troops from Mexico if conditions there
grow favorable and for tho military
control of the border wait signed at
1:4S this afternoon in the Hotel Tray
more by the delegates to the Mexican
American joint commission.
A supplemental memorandum in
wnlch the American Government re
served the right to chase into Mexico
any bandits that come nrom Mexican
territory to commit raids on the United
(States also waa signed.
The document, made in duplicate for
the contracting Governments, was
written In both English and Spanish
and both the Kngllsh and tho Spanish
renderings were signed by the commis
sioners. Each document waa tied with
red and green ribbons the red repre
sntinir the American Government, the
green tfcit Mexican Government and-J
staled..
One of the documents was handed at
enrc to Alberto J. Panl, one of the Mexi
can commissioners, who left hero at 4:45
th afternoon for New York, where he
will board a private car to-morrow
afternoon to hurry to Queretaro. He
wilt lay tho agreement before Carranza,
will set forth a history of the confer
ences, and It la hoped that the protocol
will receive- the approval of the First
Chief and become effective, thus opening
the way for further negotiations be
tween the commissioners on other points
pertaining to the upbuilding of Mexico.
To Ilrroaveae Decaber 8.
Should the protocol bo ratified by both
Governments the Joint commission wilt
teeonveiie on December S at a place not
yet designated to work out other policies
for the benefit of Mexico and foreign
countries having Interests there. The
flsnlngoMhe protocol followed'a mem
urandum presented to the Mexican com
n.!ialon.ers .last Tuesday, outlining the
jxillcy nf the American Government and
ItisiMJng upon agreements being signed.
The attitude which tho American com
mlMleners assumed, after almost three
inorth of discussion and considerable
backing and Ailing by the Mexican dele
catmj seems to be fairly well Indicated
in on sentence in a statement given out
by Chairman Franklin K. Lane of the
American delegation after the signing
o: the nrotocol. That sentence eald:
"Mexico will either "do right with out
t.tlp or without It."
That statement waa made In ennnre
lion 'with the- announcement of the
American commissioners' plan to be of
the greatest help possible to Mexico in
building up the country. ,
Four Chief Points.
The protocol and the memorandum
'lined this afternoon had four chief
point.
The first l: The American troops
now In .Mexico under Gen. John J.
Pershing are to bo withdrawn within
forty days from the date of the ratlflca
Hon of the protocol, provided that at
the time the State of Chihuahua It not
In a condition to endanger the American
border. Under such. conditions the time
l to be extended and. If necessary, the
American troops are to be used, either
lone or In cooperation with carranxiata
troops, to drive out the marauders.
Second: The Mexican army i to pa
trol the Mexican side of the border and
the American army will pitrol ' the
American side, but If cooperation be
teen the two armies Is possible an ar
rangement to that effect may be made.
Third: The commanders of both
rmles are to have authority to enter
ny arrancement for cooperation In
quelling bandits.
Pourlh: The American Government
t'wves the right to pursue nto Mexico
marauders comlnc from Mexico Into the
United .'Hates, ro Ions as the. conditions
In northern Mexico are In their present
abnormal condition.
ISO Proposals Slade
The agreement signed this afternoon
I" the result of 150 different proposals
mde. during the conferencea by both
m American and Mexrcan cwnmission
r. It Is not what the Mexicans wanted.
In fact, while the Mexican commission
1 a agreed to the conditions of the pro
'"'ol they sought permission to lay
urytlilng before Carranza before algn
l"f It. The American commissioners In
tM upon, signatures and the laying
Mors the First Chief of a protocol bear
ing the names of the six commissioner.
Th Mexicans asked for a rece.s of
Mveral days. It waa learned to-day, al
moit Immediately after the virtual ul
timatum was presented lo them by
Chairman Imh of the American delega
tion. While the wording of the protocol
ah nut made public, tbe, purported dl
l of the agreement waa given out by
tiie commission this afternoon. It fol
lows "The commission baa coma to an
ireement aa to withdrawal of Aaterl
tin trootM la, IlesUe 'avd.tBWsafer.'.asJt-
.VH
I ROOF ONLY PLACE LEFT
JN HOTELS FOR GUESTS
Cots Put in Ballrooms 12
' Pittsburgers Sleep In One
Louis XVII. Suite.
Persona alternating to act rooms lait
night In New York hotel ninny timed
were given this reply In all seriousness:
"I'm aorry, air, the only thing we have
left la on the roof."
Managera of the leading tiotela could
not recall a time when the congestion
had been so great. It was practically
impossioie to get a room or any aort,
The annual Influx of ahonner. the rein
vention' of hotel men, the Yale-Harvard
game at New Haven and ttu Army and
Navy content here are reiDonslble.
At the Majeatlc twelve men. employees
of a Plttaburg firm, here to aee the
Army-Navy game, alept In the Louis
XVH. aulte. The Brand ballroom fell
from Its magnificent eatate and, curtained
off, made three steeping rooms.
George C. IJoldt of the Waldorf gave
up his private library and dlnlnf room
to patrons. Forty-nine pages of the
reservation book contained names of
persons who had wired or written for
rooms, but who had been told that
everything waa filled up. After the
Twentieth Century arrived yesterday
more than 400 persons were waiting to
be assigned rooms. Cots were placed In
every available room In the hotel, out'
side rooms were, secured for regular cua
tomers. It was necessary to send some
as far away as Newark.
The Aator clerk was kept busy telling
old patrons that he couldn't promise
them anything for the next two or three
days. The same conditions prevailed at
the'McAlpln. Blltmarc. Vanderbllt, and.
In fact, all of the hotels of the city.
COUNT IN 5TH AVE.
SHOWSMOTORJAM
"Sun" Reporters Sec 5,106
Vehicles Pass Forty-second
St. in Three Honrs.
The congestion of Fifth avenue, as ob
served by Sex reporters, at Fifth ave
nue and Forty-second street yesterday
afternoon between the hours of three
and six showed that S.10B vehicles
passed that central point. The' bulk
of this traffic waa of pleasure cars, one -
..u.-v. .v.. ..,,.,
tenth of which had only the driver.
The average 'number of persons to a
car. exclusive of buses, waa about two
and a half, Including the drivers,
The count revealed that the avenue.
still holds many horse drawn hansom
eat.-fflost of them of the cruising
vi.e. seeklna- fares In the town's busiest !
re
s.
y
tnorougnrare. ureaifr in numoar wuo
empty taxlcabs. most of which had de
r41 thlr Htnnris In search of stray
naxaencera I
' ir .
fio errori was niauo to wine mo couni
under extraordinary circumstances, u.
anything, the number observed was be
low the normal, due to the weather con
ditions that kept the trafllc confined In
the main to closed vehicles.
In the time 2.409 vehicles of all hinds.
Including automobiles, taxlcabs, motor
trucks and buses, motor cycles, moll
wagons, horse drawn trucks. Tiansom
cabs and victorias with two horses,
passed the southwest corner of Fifth
uvenue ana Koriy-secona sireei. ;
Of tho
2.409. 2.191 were automobiles.
and buses. Of the 2.194. -jj
, one occupant each. Of the
ilcles, 215 were drawn by horses
taxlcabs
had only
2.409 vehicles,
nr were In the miscellaneous class. I
Half Without Fares.
out or
&J$Z??
- - " . . . !...
than half of tho hansoms were without
. . ....--1..-
The tota number ff persons
aowui.iw.1 .. uu.mw-.,..
eifliislve of buses, for one hour between
S:25 and 4:23 P. M. were 1,715. The
total number of uutos and taxlcabs go
Ing touth within that period was 701
Thi made an average of 2 and one
half persons for each uutomobtle and
taxlcab.
The total number of vehicles passing
north In Fifth avenue at Forty-second
street between 3 and 6 P. M. yesterday
afternoon .was 2.697. Of this number
2,474 were automobiles and 220 were
horse drawn vehicles. There was one
bicycle, one autoped and one tally-ho.
Of the automobiles 394 were occupied
only by the driver.
Tho number of automobiles exclusive
of Fifth avenue buses was 2.311 and the
total number of persons riding In them
was .0f4, or an average of about 2 2-3
persons to each car. Many of the auto
mobiles occupied only by the driver were
taxlcabs. where the drivers were solicit
ing fares, and a large proportion of the
horse drawn vehicles were empty cabs.
Allowing an average length of 11 feet
lo each motor driven vehicle the 2.474
that travelled north In the threo hours
of observation. If put front fender
against rear mudguard, would make a
total length of more than five and one
sixth miles. Were this single lino to bo
halted for the whole time It would ex-
tend from waaningion Ann id imn
street. The southbound stream in tho
same calculation would make a total of
24,134 feet, knocking a half mile off the
length. . ... ,
Giving each car an average width of
Ave feef. were tho two streams that
passed the point of observation to be
parked together on Fifth avenue, radia
tors against the curb, the line would
reach from the arch almost to 100th
street. . ,,
Mayor Mltchel's wnvnlng about Uie
situation at the Fifth Avenue Association
dinner last Wednesday night, following
Tit Hun's exposition of conditions,
evoked yesterday morning the following
expression In the editorial columns of
the World:
Problem Ulgaallr.
"Mayor Mltchcl In his address to the
Fifth" Avenue Association did not over
state the urgency of tho question of
traffic relief for the city's great thor
oughfare. The congestion has become
literally 'a fearful congestion.' and the
problem it baa created 'a glgantlo prob-
""Whatever remedy Is found, If tt la to
oe mdre than temporarily effective. It
must involve a radical readjustment. To
attempt a atrlcter police control will
serve only to make matter worse : the
resources of that form of regulation
have been exhausted. .What I; needed s
relief not more restraint, end adequate
1" . ",m.n.nt relief can come only
from a compute reorganisation of traffic
commons.
COST OF LIVING IS
GEM THIEF'S PLEA
Bank Employee Who Stole
Harriman $60,000 Necklace
Couldn't Pay Bills.
SAYS HE FOUND JEWELS
Daggett, His Brother, and
" Jeweller Arc Held
1 ffor Trial. '
Arthur Daggett, trusted manager of
the safe deposit vaults of the Farmers
Loan and Trust Company, gave the
high cost of living yesterday as the ex
planatlon for taking Mrs. E. H. Harrl
man's fSO.000 necklace. He had han
dled valuables for years': he had found
them lying loosely In his vault and re
turned them, he was Impregnated with
the rigid formalities of bank discipline,
but suddenly his desperate need for
money made him forget his training
and he became a thief,
Daggett, his brother Orvllle and
Max Manne, a Jeweller, were held yester
day for examination In the Jefferson
Market police court, where the atory was
told to Judge flwann and the police.
The difficulty of Daggett living up to
his Larchmont neighbors waa "told
quietly In answer to a question. His
salary waa $1,7(0 a year. He Is 4
years old and wears a look of com
fortable prosperity.
Daggett had waited on Mrs. Harriman
many times when she went to the vaults
with her valuables and still claims he
did not take the Jewelry from the box.
He toys he found the Jewels lying on
the vault floor and for the remainder of
the day carried them as he went about
his duties.
Pot 800 In Vae.lt.
It Is Interesting- to note that Daeaett
took th SSOO he- received for tfte dia
mond back to the vault and put It in a
box he kept for his own use. taking out
a little now and them to pay his' bills.
Two of the gems the police have
round. The large ruby, valued at 140,
000. wan found among aome nails and
other odds and ends In a pocket of
. . LrChmont home. The
diamond was located In the store of a
( Fifth avenue Jewelry concern three da,) s
'" jced through many hands to
!x Manne. the Jeweller, of 30S West
street, to whom Daggett sold It. The
second ruby, the smaller one, has not
yet been found by the police but they
are confident they know where It Is.
A Mh.ln u 1,1. .hl... .... .1 1 . J I
. to which the larger Jewels were
penaed. was found tossed In a bureau
h' c I
. Jut"nff'
a"c,eVk.'uT the aS, epartmenT
the International Mercantile Marine and
l',V 'V. V.:. ulnf. ,"" nrpoklyn.
He, Is 41. When detectives went looking
f- i.i. .I... .....,! i ti.. ...... .1
"w .uui juj ..uij
Arthur Daggett told his brother he
had found the diamond on the floor
and did not mention the other gems.
Once before he had found a watch
studded with diamonds and told hi
brother he had returned It and was re
warded by the owner with another
watch. He persuaded Orvllle to dispose
of the ruby for him, and Orvllle gave It
to a man In the freight department nf
the International Mercantile Marine to
J e, The bo. nnd gave Orvllle
$450, half of which was given to Arthur
Daggett,
I
Police Itrllevr Pari of Story.
The police are Inclined to believe the 1
concerning the way In which the Jewelry ,
nao iuiiiiu, lien 111; mos nan i
, portfi, by Mr Brrlman he ,oId
Police she generally left her Ikjx to be
locked by the manager, and. lacking
j any other c ues, they began the r nves
I .. ,. . ,, ,. .
tlgatlon In the vault Itself. By a process
of elimination they decided that Daggett
wan the only man likely to lie alone In
the vault nt any time, and then found
that the day before Mrs. llnrrlnian re
ported her loss Daggett bad told the
trust company officials that something
was the matter with the combination on
MVs. llnrrlnian'H box. The box whs
.1
.Mil, n. .......
The case holding the Jewels was
.rP?ry'?:.
.he was positive
h mtwr. The bae which had eon.
.oin,l tho lewelrv was also tied In
.llffereiii from that In which she... .. . ,
usual ly tied It. and the police came in
"he conclusion that the box had 0t
been locked after she left, but that It
had been opened again and some of the
Jewelry taken out.
When tho police traced the diamond
to Max Manne, the Jeweller wns profuse
In his protestations rttat ho had marie
exhaustive Inquiries of Daggett before
he bought tho stone, and that ho would
not have done It even then If he had not
remembered Daggett as ,o man who
once worked In tho neighborhood. Ho
know Daggett as Malcolm, when Dag
gett went with him and showed him the
stone Maiiiio osked Daggett for his
card and he gave the card of a sales
man who had visited him a snort time
before. Manne offered Daggett $500 for
the diamond and then had Daggett sign
a receipt for $1,000. He was asked by
Judge Swann why he did that.
Got 1,000 necrlpt.
"Well, your Honor." said Manne,
"after I bought that stone of Mr. Mal
colm I went down town ami had It
valued. It was a large stone nnd I
wasn't used to that size goods. I took
It down town and they told me the stone
was worth between $00 and $1,000.
Then I said. 'The atone Is worth $l,000
and In case It Is lost or stolen, give me a
bill for $1,000 for Insurance.'" Manne
sold the diamond, he said, for $1,000 to
Jacob Schoen, a Jeweller of 6 Maiden
lane.
The police have found out little about
Daggett except what he has told them.
He lives In a small house, for which he
pays only $35 a month, with his wife
and two children. He apparently lived
modestly and had no outside Interests
that would have required considerable
money. Taking the Jewelry, he said,
waa a case of necessity. He was In debt
'and still Is, und when Judge Swann
ask.d him bow he got In debt he said :
"Why, I guess the high cost of liv
ing, living in very modest way. My
salary was not sufficient'
Magistrate Marsh held the Daggett
brothers In $5,00- ball yesterday aft.r
nooa for sn examination to-day, and
Max Mann was new in: me same can.
Maaa attorney said In court that
I, saw saseww wa uiron
LET U. S. ACT
PEA CE, SCHIFF DECLA RES;
WA R NA TIONS SEND VIE WS
Financier Would Have America Take Urgent Measures at
Once Before One Side or the Other
i Is Exhausted.
William II. Tatt, as president of the
League to Enforce Peace and chairman
at the dinner of the league, held In the
Hotel Astor last night, made It clear to
the men and women who filled the grand
ballroom to capacity that the object of
the league Is not to seek to end the pres
ent war, but to see to it that once Eu
rope shall have stopped fighting the
world's nations hereafter settle their dif
ferences without lighting.
Jacob H. Schlff. however. In one of
the lengthiest and most forceful ad
dresses of the evening, said he believed
one of the chief duties of America
working In the Interest of peace was to
step In right now and try to stop the
war.
"Is It really the Intention.", aaked Mr.
Schlff, "to sit still and await the mo
ment when, of the Powers now facing
each other, one side or the other shall
have become completely exhausted and
vanquished, forced Into acceptance or
whatever terms the victors may deem
well to grant, before the proposed
League to Enforce Peace shall through
America's, Initiative be brought Into ex
istence? Illa-lt Time to Act."
" 'America has become the trustee of
the Interests of humanity,' It has re
cently been said. This Is a truism we
thoroughly believe, and If this be so, Is
It not high time that as n Rood trustee
America should take courage and Initiate
steps which will result In the protection
of the Interests of humanity? This con
flict, as the situation has shaped Itself, Is
not likely to end very toon, nnd w"J
continue until some powerful factor
notwithstanding the discouragements
this may at first receive steps between
these belligerents and persists, until both
sides name terms on which peace may
be dlicussed. so that gradually a basis
for negotiations may thus be evolved."
Mr. Taft outlined the objects of the
league and Insisted that where force
was necessary to uphold the rights of
nations the league was thoroughly In
favor of force although aiming of
course first and last to settle disputes
without resorting to arms.
Meiuiri From nelllarrents.
Hamilton Holt read messages from
Count von Bernstorff, who quoted from
a recent speech of Von Uethmann-Holl-weg
to show that his Government was In
favor of the objects of the league : from
Sir Edward Qrey, Iord Hryce, Ambas
sador Jusserand, who Included a mes
ap-l"J trom M' Uland. and other proml
-
"" " "jv ....
Viscount Bryce cabled:
"Those working here on your line.
jTTt
uh"' tnr mlr ,easuc 8 "' .
M JulaniI fcm le following
"Wasiiinoton. 1.o, Nov. 21, 19K.
"At the Mine time as your letter '
received this morning one from our
Prime Minister. Mr. Ilrland. destined
mT'
,...,,11 7,ir..tr ii r,,ni,nV. ih,
avail ourself to Its oonten s nt the
forthcoming banquet of the l.easue to
r.niurr irair. jl rnbn,,ii.
Mr. Ilrland's Inlter follows:
"Paiiis. Oct. 21. 1916.
"I have the honor to acknowledge the
receipt of our communication, tlip con
tents nf which I have noted with lively
Interest. Ill baling your etfort on tho 1
P. 0. PROBERS HERE
PK UK TO NEW HEAD'
I
Administration Wants Iaciisc.
Hpforp Morgan Is Ousted
for Democrat.
Washington, Nov. 21. A committee Washington, Nov, "l. Reltcinted re
of experts. It was learned here to-day, I l,nrts that 11 crisis Is npprnachliig in the
....
, is nt work Investigating conditions pre-
I vailing in th. New York post office,
confmlsslon was appointed by Post-
1 master-General Burleson and Is neaiicu
nil... !,,iinn l.lef Insneelnr at.,.
"" l' 11 ulh"" "u,n -"""marine activity, but 1 think they come
days ago. from sources In this country."
1 Although It nns said at the Depart-. Male Department ofllc lals wrm have
ment to-day that this committee w,,,'
appointed In accordance with the usual ,ut abroad, declared to-day that there
custom of Investigating Presidential post was nothing in the way nf nmclal nil
ofllccs once a year, It Is regarded ns vices to Indicate that Germany Is about
having dec,, significance nt Ihls llmc In
view of the situation that has arisen In . kK a,j the sul.mailne situation was
connection with a successor to I M ward not more serious than It had been In the
M Morgan lm8t ,,"'', nr tour wf,ekl'-
' Suggestions havo core from Admlnls- ! Information obtained at the Slate De
lation circles lately that the New York partment and from sources close to the
post office was not being conducted as l.ermaii Lmbassy Indicate that Germany
eftlclcntly as It might be. It Is believed 1 Proposes to live up to Its conception of
that tho Investigation at this time has the pledge given l ie I'lilted States. It
been planned with a view of brliwlng ls "lp "Pinion f otticlals of this Govern
r.rt. whtei, wmilil Instlfv the in. I ment that If there have been any viola-
polutment of u man In Mr. Morgan's
place.
Thevname of Henntor Robert F. Wag
ner Ih still beforo the Senate committee
for confirmation as Mr. Morgan's sue
censor, despite Senator Wagner's declina
tion. While the Postmaster-General In-
slsts that lie lias not cnangeii nm niinii
legardlng Joseph Johnson, who has all
along been his candidate, It is believed
that at the end of the Investigation the
name of a new man will be decided
upon,
Postmaster Morgan hud little comment
to mako on the Washington reports last
night, and nothing ut all to say about
the search for a successor to him.
"The Inspectors are at work now,'1 he
said, "and have been for the last week.
I know nothing about any special sig
nificance to this year's visit, and I can't
say anything about it,"
WILSON DECLINES TO FLY.
Watches Ills fMettosjrapher Circle
Over White Iloase.
Wasiiinoton, Nov. 24. President Wil
son watched his confidential stenog.
rspher, Charles L Swem, circle over the
White House to'day In an airplane which
bucked a high wind.
The President smiled and shook' his
head. He had declined the Invitation to
NOW FOR
fundamental principle of respect for the
rights and wishes of the various peoples
of the world, you are certain of being
on common ground with the countries
who In the present conflict are giving
their blood and their resources, without
counting the cost, to save the Indepen
dence qf the nations.
"Please receive. Mr. Chairman, the
assurances of my high consideration.
"A. HMAND."
The German View.
Count von llernstorff wrote:
"Washington. D. C Nov. 16.
"I nm glad to be able to Inform you
that the Chancellor of the German Em
pire has authorized me to transmit to
you the following extracts of the speech
which his Excellency delivered on the
9lh Inst, before the Committee on ways
and Means of the German Parliament:
" 'We have never concealed our doubts
with regard to the question whether
peace could be permanently guaranteed
by such International organisations as
arbitration courts. I shall, however, at
this place not discuss the theoretical
nsnects of the problem, but we must now
and at the time of the -conclusion of
peace from the point of view of facta
define our position with regard to this
question. When at and after tlje end
of the war the world will become fully
conscious of its horrifying destruction
of life and property then through the
whole of mankind will ring a cry for
peaceful arrangements and understand
ings, which, so fur im Ilea in human
power, ahnll avoid the return of such a
monstrous catastrophe.
" "This cry will be so powerful and so
Justified that It must lead to some re
suit. Germany will honestly cooitorate
In the examination of every endeavor
to find a practical solution of the ques
tlon. and will collaborate to make It 1
realization possible. Tnis an me more, i
If the war. lis we expect and trust, will
create political conditions which do full ,
Justice to the free development of all i
nations, the small ones ns well as the
great nations.
" "Then It will be poxslble to realize!
the principles of Justice and free de
velopment on land nnd of the freedom of
the was. The Mint condition for eolr
tlon of International relations by way of In any way to help Germany. A thou
arbitration and iieareful compromise of.sund of them who fled to England re-
conlllrtlng Interests should lie that no
more ncgresslve coalitions nre formed
In the future. Germany will tit all times
be ready to enter n league for the pur
loso of restraining the disturbers of
peace.'
"The above official declaration of the
Uermnn Government Is so explicit that 1
would only spoil Its effect by nddlnK
anything to It on my own part, with the
exception nf the wish that the hoc8'Of
the Imperial Chancellor may soon be
realized. lltnNHTQRrr."
Ilrltnln'. VlriT. (
The following cablegram was received
from Vim-mint Itrev. Minister nf V-nrrlffn
Affalm of Great Britain:
"1 mink i.ul.llo iniAr.M. m.ii.i
1 already nmiln it clear that I sincerely de-
, c H )raKUO (lf alollM formed
,lla(,. efTectUc to H.-cure future .e.ice
Ii
regard thlx as the best. If not the only,
t f .,reM.rvlnB lren,,. um, of
' ' r ' ,...""... "l
----
U-BOAT CRISIS IS
vmiw n LANS NU
Socretnry HpIIpvps That t lie
Alarminjr Stories Have
Their Origin Here.
, -tlll(1, -,,,.. ...... .,
'. ',""',
"wa
1 for onirlal denial nt the state Depart-
""'
Secretary Lansing said: "I don't
"""" uie origin nr uiese s'.orles of sul-
- M
lion or i no incline reparation win ne
made by the German Government.
The two rases most serious upon the
basis of facts nnd affidavits so far re
ceived me those of the Marina and the
Arabia, These are, now receiving atten
tion. Much of the alarm that has been cre
ated has been due to press despatches
finni Germany which have obviously
been passed by the censor, What pur
pose might be achieved by this practice
Is not clear. The suggestion was forth
coining nt the State Department to-day
that these reports might have been given
out In response to suggestions from this
side of the water.
BUFFALO PAPERS RAISE PRICE.
Advance to SI Cent Will Be An
nounced To-day.
BuryAi.0, Nov. 24, Announcement will
be made to-morrow by five Buffalo news
papers of an advance In subscription nnd
street sale prices beginning December 1,
The .Vrtrs, Titnes and Ktioiilrer, after
noon papers, and the Courier and Kx
press, morning, win cost ic n year.
Street prices will be two cents a copy.
The C'oiamemal, afternoon, haa been
selling at two cents for several years.
PP4RHUBBT HOT gUI AND (lOLP LINKS)
now opt n. mq. .oe.ru Air L.in,iier war,
sv.
Ill ears to come. If there Ih any doubt e is wining to allow tne ileporla-, lence line 11 uecijrauuu ... ii,lnelirnii town at the,
about my sentiments In the matter. I . tlons to continue without a protest. All have been a noble and courageous act ""jVu-s f tho) inul.o tint III naiil
hope this cablegram in reply to our own Ids friends cabled replies saying that In comparison to what happened In Iron (.. les of thecal tub. that Ilumanla
will remove It. Gni:r." I they are doing all In their power to Greece: but Mich action would have W hi Id as the om 1 rlze left of 1 er
All the messages were addressed to arouse public Indignation In America, , necessitated Itlers and the l.ntente 'J- ' vt.; TurMU.ScvHrn
be da ' Sa'rmC reCfC ' thC'r 1 MM W
BELGIUM IN DESPAIR,
LOOKS TO AMERICA
Exiled Leaders Hope Protest
Against German Action
Will Be Hade.
ARE "PROTEGES OF U. S.,!
Viscount Davignon Says That
"Question of Slavery" Must
Interest This Nation.
.Special Cable Detpateh to Tns Scs.
London, Nov, 24. Leading members
of the great Belgian colony In London
are appalled by the reports of the Ger
man deportations In Belgium. The In
formation about them Is meagre as the
Belgians are not allowed to communi
cate with their relatives In England
Belgian headquarters receives dally hun-
dreds of pathetic letters begging news of
relatives and friends In Belgium whose
fate Is unknown.
Viscount Davignon, son of the late
Belgian Minister of Foreign Affairs,
said to the correspondent of The St'N;
"All Belgium looks te America to stop
these deportations. America already
has hetned Belgium Immensely. In a
sense, America has fed the Belgians,
and they are really American proteges,
German Methods Clever.
"The German methods are very clever.
They nre urging the Belgians to sign a
paper promising them good pay for
work In Germany. If the Belgians re
fuse to sign they are taken to Germany
ns prisoners and made to work at Ver
dun and on the Homme.
'The war has produced great patriot-
Ism among the Belgians, whose I in
lions nnd schools 'It Is lmposlbl
whose Imtltu-
to
rs.rnmnlie. Other nations have tried In I
tj,e Jiatx to do this, but they have
failed. Germany has failed also,
"Belgian men taken to Germany have
not been heard from by their relatives,
who do not know If they ore alive or
dead. Already 60.000 have been taken,
principally from the military xone.
"The question of slavery touches
America deeply. The Belgians nre not
lazy, but they are unwilling to work
turned to Belgium on Germany's promise 1
that they be treated fairly. Now they
have all beep deported.
"Cardinal Merrier nays: 'American
public opinion Is the only thing that will
help Belgium now.'
Imisoulnle to Explain."
"The German atrocities In Belgium
at fhe beginning of the war were per
haps explainable ns the acts of soldiers
excited by resistance. The deportations
nre Impossible to explain. There ha
I been nothlnir like this In history since i
the dark nces.'
Dueheas Dursel said :
"My people nre suffering terribly.
i They already know horrors, but this Inst
I 1. ih. ...nr.t ..r n kmmri i, u . .inn.
so much to help that we ho
1 come forward now. sternly
' against Herman barbarism."
hope she will
protesting
Edouard Carton I)e Wlart. brother of1
the Belgian Minister of .lutlce. has sent
I twenty-five letters to friends In America
' ..kln what a.i wilt .In . nnn
... ...
hail gained Dutch soil.
The situation Is considered hopeless
ny iieiginns nere, unless .merica Brings
strong procure upon Germany.
FINES RUIN BELGIANS.
fiennana Innio.r llent -Punishment
for Trivial Offence.
Sprrial Cable pnpalen lo Tilt SrN from He
, , .
l..,ndoa T,m.
ixjnpon. ,ov, in iie course or his
ic-ond article, under tho title "The
Agony of Belgium," In the ninrs, 11
neutral orrespondent writes:
"Rich nnd poor nre persecuted anil
rnl.ltArl anil ai'.f ,n. t l...itti- ln.1,.,.,1 1...
.. . .
tne alitnorltv in necunatlnti nr it, p nn
-
territory. The announcement that the
! aldrnnen nnd city councillors of Urus-
sels and Antwerp were arrested nnd
fined for not obeying the order of the
German Governor-Genernl Indicates the
extremes to which the oppressors will
go In their campaign of terrorism.
"This arbitrary proceeding had a dou
ble ohje t. Ostensibly Its Intention was
to obtain a list of poor Belgians of mil
iary nge with the view of deportation,
but cMnrtlon nf money from richer citi
zens of nny ago was also alined nt, The
Germans are determined to extract the
life blood of the country to the very last
drop.
l ine s.riiltrrll- Imposed.
"Since the Burgomaster of Brussels,
Adnlphe Max. wan carried off to orison
In llnnover the dulleH nf the first mag
istrate have been discharged by Xlaurlcc
Leninnnler. the senior sheriff, M. Le-
inonnler'H wife received n short time ago
a notification that she had been lined
ftO ($200). No pnrtlriilir.s of the of
fenro were given. In these clrcum-stan.-en
she refused to pay, whereupon
furniture and ornaments to the value
of C4S ($240) wcro taken from tho
house.
"Not until after they had been sold
wns Mine, l.emonnler Informed that she
had been condemned for being In pos-t-esslon
of a forbidden publication. Some
spy In the city had supplied the evi
dence. She vv-.is not allowed the oppor
tunity of refuting the accusation.
"In the early days of the war millions
of francs were demanded from each
town as It was entered. This campaign
of plunder has been carried on ever
since. The town of Tournal has Just
been called upon to pay 10.000 ($50,000)
for refusing to furnish a list of unem
ployed. There Is hardly a commune
within the occupied territory that has
not had Its exchequer depleted by Iniqui
tous fines. Brussels, Antwerp and Ghent
have been drained dry. A few weeks
ago Courtral was fined 2.100 ($10,500)
because a telegraph wire had been
broken In a storm.
Woman la Fined f KOO.
"Tradesmen and private Individuals
are now lielng picked out for extortion,
A merchant whs lined fd.OOO $$0,000)
for some offenco In connection with 'the
sale of sugar. Several Antwerp Arms
have been fined 1,000 ($5,000) each,
CoHflnued on Second I'age.
EDISON TOO BUSY TO
GO TO HIS OWN PARTY
Friends Gather to Present
$7,000 Cabinet, but Inventor
Disappoints Them.
Thomas A. Edison was too -busy yes
terdsy to show up at his own party.
His business associates and employees
had arranged a little surprise for him In
the ballroom at the Itltx-Carlton, at
which they were Intending to give him a
hand carved cabinet worth probably
IMOO or 17,000, whose original dates
back to the reign of Louis XII. of
France and Is priceless.
At 4 o'clock he had not appeared. At
4 :30 flie 200 or 300 of his employees and
other friends who had been wandering
aimlessly about the ballroom began to
get anxious. One of those In charge
called up the Edison plant at West
Orange and got the Inventor on the tele
phone. "We're all ready for you. Mr. Edison,
and there's a perfectly good presentation
speech going to waste," he was told.
But the Inventor sent back this charac
terlster reply:
"I'm too busy to come over there.
Send It over here to me." There was a
click which the man on this end of the
line knew meant Mr. Edison had hung
up the receiver and gone back to work.
B. E. B. Fuller, chief supervisor for
Mr. Edison, who was to make the presen
tation speech, Is hoping to work It off
to-day at the plant.
The cabinet Is an exact reproduction
of a famous piece of wood carving which
Mr. Edison admired when on a trip to
Paris a few years ago. Knowing of his
admiration for the cabinet, bis friends
obtained the services of an expert wood
carver nnd sent him to Paris to make the
reproduction. It Is 9 feet high and the
two principal panels are richly carved.
The finishing touches on the cabinet were
put on at the Edison plant, where a
phonograph and a system of electric
lighting were Installed.
ALLIES THREATEN
TO ATTACK GREEKS
Sarrail Warns Athens When
Royalist Troops Refuse
"to Obey Order.
London. Nov. 24. The Greek royal-
st troops have refused to evacuate Kat-
erlna. as deminded by the Entente au
thorities. Gen. Sarrail, In command of
the Entente forces, has warned the Gov
ernment at Athens that unless an order
for tmmedlato evacuation Is given he
will proceed to use force, says an Ex
change Telegraph Company despatch
from Athens to-day.
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 24. Com
menting on tho expulsion of the Min
isters of Ihe Central Powers from
Greece the Berliner Tngeblatt Is quoted
by the Overseas News Agency as say-
I tic :
"Thus n situation Is created which
otherwise would be possible only In an
enemy's land or In vase of n rupture of
,1 1 nt o Ti i :i M r relntloiis. The Entente cares
not ine leasi inr me law ui uauuiit, or
the international customs 01 me civiuzeo
unri.i ov r.r the pood will of neutral
states. The creation of guarantees
against tne nruianzaiion 01 ncuirais m-
lonns to the league of nations stilt sleep-,
Inc In the lan of the future. Open vlo -
. i. .i r
JUilH A. UflllYttl U uuwn,
Prominent Corporation l,nnrr In-
Jurrd nnd a Chauffeur Arrested.
John A tlarver, a prominent corpora-
' !. ". ''c'..,,sti,.? ,... .! v.n
.,1., -:. -
eterday morning nt Fifth avenue and
, "'''"''
fractured.
..1lU.
Forty-seventh street, iwn rins were
He was taken to the Poly-
ospltal.
Ernest titahy of Kv onset. L. I., chauf
feur of the car, which Is owned by A. J.
RafeUou of 200 West tilth street,
leaped from bis sent and ran away when
the accident happened. An hour and a
half later he appeared In the West
Forty-seventh street illce station nnd
i cave lilnielf mi. He was taken to York-
"... . . - ....j ...
V lie court, wnerc in- w;is nriii in t.,vuu
ball, charged with felonious assault. .
...... ,.nl.l IIHIPflTU.
.1" l.c?,' V'P "I1 !;tlie Rumanian main army la Intrenched
son, Mr. (iarver was pinnen unuer tne
machine and they were unable to get him
out until Deputy Fire Commissioner Fay
came along with an automobile. He bad
some Jacks with him. The car was lifted
and Mr. Garver released.
Mr. Garver Is 02 years old and lives at
.11., .Mau.hnii nrilil.-. lie l-. u niriiiitci ui
the law firm of Sherman & Stirling.
."ir Mndleoii nventle. lie Is a member of
Mr. Beck. The firm represents many
hanks and cniporiitlnns, Including the
Consolidated Gas Company.
OPEN WAY FOR DECISION.
llol h sides III N Hour Mllirntlna
Ilemovr Obstacles,
KsXSA ("ITT. M, Nov. '.'I,- All pre
llnilnary obstacles to a decision by the
Supreme) Court of the fulled States on
tho Adamsoti law were wiped out to.
day. The only possible hitch in the
proceedings now lien In the question
whether the highest court will advance
the case and can lender H decision by
January 1. when the law Is scheduled to
go Into effect
The case, of the Santa Fc and other
railroads which had applied to Judge
John C Pollock In the fulled States
District Court at Kansas City, Kan.,
were by agreement of counsel for the
Government and railroads postponed un
til after a decision by the Supremo Court.
An announcement was miido by Frank
llagermaii, special assistant to the Attorney-General,
and Walter 1). Illnes.
chairman of the committee of railroad
counsel, that similar postponements
would be requested In oil courts of the
country whero Injunction suits have been
Hied.
The oiso which goes to the upper tri
bunal Is that of the Missouri, Oklahoma
nnd Gulf Railroad, heard hurriedly here
Wednesday by Judge William c, Hook
who hehl that thn law- was. unconstltu
tional.
Priests Take Pledge fur D Year..
Ciiicaoo, Nov. 21. Kvrry priest or-
dalned In the Chicago archdiocese
pledges himself tn total abstinence for
flvn venrs. Archblshon G. W. Munrle.
jln Mated to-day. "If tho priests keep
the total abstinence pledge for rivn
yearn." he fcald. "they are likely to con-
ttnue the practice for the rest of their
lives," xmu,
TEOTONS CROSS
DANUBE.HEADED
FOR BUCHAREST
Muckensen Only 50 Miles
From Capital and in Rear,
of Rumanians. j
" 4
TURNU-SEVERIN
AND ORSOVA FAUi
Control of Great River ft
Xow Fully in Hands of j
the Invaders. r
ALL WALLACHIA IS ' "J
BELIEVED TO BE LOS!?
London Admits That Situa
tion of Latest Ally Is
Desperate.
London, Nov. 24. German and Bui.
garlnn troops havo forced a crossing
of tho Dnnubo at several places, th
German War Offlco Announces. Thfg
Midden stroke of Von Mackcnsen,
places In extreme peril the greater part
of the Rumanian armies nnd Bucharest,
the capital. The capture by another
Teuton army of Orsova and- Turnu
Severln places full control of tho
Danube In the hands of tho Invaders.
It Is tollevcd that Von Mackensen
crossed Into Rumania at a point not
more than fifty mllen southeast of
Bucharest. He Is utrikliiK in tho rear
the whole of the new lino that th
hard pressed KiimmIiihh nnd Rumanians
had Just formed cast of thn Alt. Tho
armies defending the passes nnd foot
hills of the Trnnsylvanlan Alps also
are threatened.
' Cnnafht In a Trap.
RumaiiIai.altuatlon Is desperate. Rha
seems 10 be caught in a great German
trap, sprung with masterly precision
from north, west and south. Only tre
mendous reenforremcnts from Russia
and aid from the other Allies or a
brilliant counter stroke can eavo tho
eastern half of the country. The fat
of the western half, iintl with It tho
capital, nnd the lich wheat nnd oil
.mi-, nn . r
.......j .-...i- .. -v j
for Itumanln since she entered the war
, three months ago and began her In-
, T'T'" ,""' , ' "C
he namil.e. I.i yri every finnt except
, the Dobrudja. It was a day of Rumanian
, .., lho western corner of Riiuuiil.i
I (the Tuniu-Sevcrln region) hostile re-
slstancf has lu-en broken," iayt the Ger
man statement to-day.
Nen f Army l.ncUlne,
I Them Is no new of the Rumanian
army 111
rmy that liehl orsuva, ami was cut off
from the main iiiniy by the capture of
Craiova. Ilerliu announces no captures
of troops. A despatch from tin front
to the Knrliilsric l'oU.s:el(t(ni7, dated
Wednesday. say tho army was com
paratively siiiall.
Tu-dny's ltus.il.in statement sas that
"In tin- region um thrust of Tumu-Sev-eilti
small Runialilaii detachments at
tacked the enemy forces and dispersed
tlietn, capturing three cannon," There
i ,rl
seems to 1! no Rumanian force of niiv
, . . ,. wlinli. Inunn ui.
! K imJ t. . inr aVK
for ii stand to save the capital.
Von r.ilkenhnyn's army has iraehed
the Alt from Crulovn. Tho Germ. m War
Ofllco Issued to-night number of tho
hrlef bulletins In which lately It has
been announcing tin' ci-iisliing of Ru
mania, "We have i cached tho River
: ...
J Were the Ruinanl-iiis m,
e picparing a
rong line of defence based in, nil Hie
river, which Iterlln despatches admit Is
n really formidable military obsincle,
swift in lis upper rem lies, broad near
the mouth, German airplanes are lmmh
ing the Rumanian comiiiuiilcatlnus with
Bucharest, ninety miles tu the east.
Mnckcilscn's I 'mii Serious,
nut this Alt line which the Rumanians
bad Imped would prove scure Is taken
In rear or at least In 11, ml, by the doss
ing of the Danube by Von Mackcnsen.
Tho German War oilU-c docs not an
nounce where the .riisxini; has lu-i-n
made. It sa.vs simply that Von Mack
ensen got Irm.ps across nl "scwral
points." It Is believed here, however,
that the Teutons and Ilulgars crosKcd In
the "5 mile stretch of the river between
the Rumanian tonux of luinltzcii nnd
Olrenltza, opposite the Bulgarian towns
of Siistnva and TiitraKan.
To-day's Rumanian htatenient says the
Teutons tried to land, apparently trom
boats', nt Xlmiiltze.t, Thn Rumanians
announced jcslerday a violent Ismibard
ment of the, Danube between Zlmnitzc.-t
nnd Olteultza. Teuton ttnops crossing
the river nnd M-lzing either of these
places would hold railroads leading to
Uucharest.
In the Dobrudja, north nf this region,
a desperate effort Is evidently being,
made by Gen. SaMioroff to smash Von
MnrUeusen's lines und throw him back,
creating a diversion and threatening the
troops who have crossed the lunuhe,
Advance In DoliruilJn,
The Ruffians mid Rumanians ad.
valued along the wliolo front tii.ilay,
und did Indeed make sum.' pi ogress and
begin at last to strike Von MacKensen's
main positions. They crossed the River
Kartnl nnd leached Lake TaMi.inc,
about fifteen miles north of the Cnn.
slanza-Ceriiavoda line, nnd tonic sevetal
towns on high ground in Um mime
locality, near the Black Sea,
Not only in the manner In which iir
armies are being encircled by Teuton
rovn.
!1
Ii
1
Si
.my
