f 'i
STRA?
NIGHT
EXTRA
iteftger
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituemn
h0h. HI. NO. 63
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1916
Coriitant, 1010 t tn restto I.tMtn Counm
PRICE ONE CENT
.
IT W
c
KUTON TROOPS
CROSS ALT AND
DANUBE RIVERS
Ijjfalkenhayn and Mackensen
manian Capital
fSSAIL CENTER PORTS
Annans Tnko Several Towns
and AttaCK z-iairn aim
Slatina
i
BETtLIN, Nov. 25.
(ktutro-aerman forces In tho interior of
jfcrninia have crossed the Alt river, one
Lf the ohtef natural barriere defending
fcaeharest on tho western aide. Tho news
St tho troops of von Falkcnhayn had
(Seed a crossing of tho Alt was contained
ff., nfflelal etntement of the War Oftlco
JB "
lau.
WtmJ'
Tl had been expeoted that the Kumanlans
Tould mako their most desporato stand
jScl4fcMO of the Ilumanlan capital on
St" Alt.
South of Alt pass In the Transylvanlan
Upl the Germans and Austro-Hungarlans
St driven forward, capturing several
Sore towns and more than 800 additional
"ffiionerB.
The official report sayB that tho German
1(3 under von Mackensen that forced
irosstnga over tho Danube havo Rained a
Klld foothold on the -western bank (In old
Kumanlu) dosplto furious resistance by tho
Kusso-numanlan armies. Mackcnsen's
forces have crossed tho Danubo nt Bacovlta
t In moro concrete manner tho situation
Mllumanlft la as followa:
triple drtvo on Bucharost, tho Itu-
jSnlan capital, Is being carried out by the
cops of Falkcnhayn and Field Marshal
Km Mackensen.
flinging back tho Russians and Ruma
nians ihat tried to bar his progress, von
Bkckensen has pushed across tho Danube
from the Dobrudja sldo nnd Is moving on
Bucharest from the east. From tho -west
the lesions of von Falkcnhayn arc pressing
toward Bucharest from tho Craiova sector
toother great nrmy Is fighting Ha -way
toward the Rumanian capital from tho Tran-
lylrjnlan Alps.
W jnai ursova anu Turnu aoverin navo
fit'en, all of western Rumania apparently
Vu at (be mercy of tho Teutons. Austro-
German troops nro also attacking the de-
,enn of tho town of Platra nnd Slatina,
jjjje try important strongholds in north-
Jjwestern Rumania, east of Tolgcs Pass.
jiPIatra Ilea at tho Junction of two stra-
'jUrle railways. Ono of these lines runs
wjaiwara irom Bucharest Into Hungary.
Tkother runs northward from tho Danubo
Wo Hungarian torrltory. Tho character
e these two centers would enable tho Aus
tropermans to adVanco agalhst Fltishtl,
gt.eff tho retreat of the Russian and Ru-
HS?nlln torcos defending Campolung and
eorapel the evacuation of that city.
JPIatra Is about ninety miles from Bu
siest.
SOFU, Nov. 25. Capture of four Islands
fea Danubo River was announced by tho
jgalga'rlan War Olllca today.
ITne Islands aro near Cigen. VIdln. Ge-
yo and Lomand.
Dobrudja, tho report saya. liostllo de-
Jfigwents In euporlor numbers tried to ap
fwach the German allies' position, but
!2 driven off by artillery fire. On tho
Barnibe near Ruatchuk, Slllstrla and Tut
san, there have been artillery duels.
BUCHAREST. Nov. 2B.
anding of cnomy trobps at Islar. Ru-
l&Sla. aftfir PrnflRlnf- thn rtnmilm hit. etnn
Of their advance from Zlmnlr.i CRIm.
ES? northward, was reported In today's
Kaai statement.
KX I
SIR RABINDRANATII TAGORE
MEXICAN.PEACE PACT
PROSPECTS BRIGHTEN
Carranza Expected to Sign Wil
son's Proposed Agreement for
Border Patrol
TAG0RE;P0ET,HERE
TO PREACH PEACE
Oriental Robes Make Strik
ing Figure Speaks at
Ogontz Tonight
POEMS STARTLED WORLD
Bcngalese, Foe of War, Says,
"God Made Man to Bo
Human"
tQGIUD AD5IITS CROSSING
OF DANUBE BY GERMANS
AND REVERSE ON ALT LINE
PETROOTlAn Vno K
omljjion that th Tnillnnln fnrx In
Balkan have croased the Danube near
Wltia was made In tnilnv'a Wni. nfflra
nept It also aald the Rumanians had
ui - c uy ma enemy in me
Valley eoUth of ICMImnnsaht nnrl xri.
Jfflaht
LONDON. Nov. JS".
i9Sh British military experts will
4alt that Tlltmnntn la ,lnnmAl In tl.a
fte as nelglum and Serbia, predlc-
ap t a gloomy character were made to.
j ne Dally Mall declared emphatically
it- the mll!fni.w ai(i.niiK ,,.. i,i
., .f n(muwn iuf iinj silica
flmanla , critical.
the 8ledire-hAlTim! tilnwn nt vnn
nhayn imi , ., ......
&r - , wAVKViiaeft win turn
apK Ferdinand to sue for peace before
ST""T l completely overrun la the
Ujy- uiajirea in a aispatch from
t, aaylng that RuBala baa recalled
mer to Rumania. Apparently the
CmUauedoa Pa Four, Celumn Three
THE WEATHER
FOREtlA ST
m Phihdtlphia and vicinituFair
Mntnued cold tonight, with lowest
rMur tonight about twenty
P or thirty degrees; Sunday fa,ir
a?mwnar. warmer; fresh westerly
YWVt M n . .
W4SB RIVEB TIDE CHANGES
B.ir l.nn l Ulh water, ljap-m.
t-r ai a.m. 1 Ijiw irat.r . Bill n.m.
S mATVUm AT BACH HODS
ft, nig, ff jiiT-i t- -
VILLA HAY INTERFERE
"WASHINGTON, Nov. 25. Only General
Carranza and General Villa stood today as
possible obstacles to fruition of tho Atlantic
City peace conference agroement for wlth-
L drawal of General Pershlns'B forces from
Mexico In tho next forty days.
Tl:o United States Government Itself is
prepared to ratify the protocol; Inasmuch
as It linn shaped upon terms President
Wilson himself npproed.
What General Carranza will do 1i a prob
lem, though tho Administration is con
vinced that ho will stsn It, even though It
may bo distasteful bocauso of inclusion of
provisions that tho United States troops
may follow a hot trail Into Mexico at any
time.
Tho other obstacle Villa probably will
be eliminated by tho Chihuahua battle,
military men say. But they do not over
look the disastrous situation that would
follow a Villa' victory at this strategic
point.
Villa Is an element In the situation from
the fact that the withdrawal la, conditional
upon conditions remaining satisfactory dur
ing tho next forty days.
IN FUNSTON'S HANDS
If Carranza signs tha agreement, as
hoped, arrangement for wlthdrawlnc Gen
eral Pershing's forces will be lefOln Gen
eral Funston'a hands,
Pershing has between 13,000 and 15,000
men at Colonla Dublin, about one hundred
miles below tho border. These men prob
ably will be assigned to border sorvlce,
while three times that number of Guards
men and perhaps many moro will bo re
leased from patrol service.
A Villa victory now would upset with
drawal plans' and create intolerable northern
Mexican conditions, experts eay, Yet, 'the
single hope of vlctoryfor him, as they see It,
Is that an Internal revolution In Chihuahua
City might Blvo him an advantage which
Uls natural sitohkiii uubs hoi unoru.
Carranza himself will probably acquiesce,
It Is thought here, In the light of what his
representatives havo been told, During the
last week the American members of the com
mission have been bluntly frank In inform
ing tha Mexican group of what consequences
It may expect If It does not meet American
terms.
LAN? TO MAKB OFKDIf
Chairman Jjine, bad: In town, was slated
to present the protocol early, though the
President's Illness seemed likely to pre
clude a conference today.
Tho protocol In brief provides for with
drawal of American troops in forty days
( northern Mexican conditions are unal
tered; for American pursuit of bonJits f
occasion arises; for separate patroTOf tho
border by eacn nation, un co-operation If
possible, to be arrange1 between the re
spective commanders; for discussion of
Internal problems upon reconvening; Decem
ber 8.
Secretary Lane holds the latter to be tha
most vital, and Insists significantly that
reforms. Including protection pf American
rights, lives and property, must.be apcora.
pllshed by Mexico either or Her own In
itiative or with American help otherwise,
evidently. Interference.
, .., -
Keep Your Eye. on the Iceman
There will soon be an Increase in the
nriee of ice throughout the eastern and
middle States, said J U Hlrcher. president
at the Eastern Ice AsocIation, Who left
this city today for Buffalo. N. Y , to attend
a joint session of the Eastern and Middle
State Producers' AssoeiaUon. Mr. Blrcber
saft that it U forty per ent mew to
Efta m too njaaufaetw&g P'o it H4
JgSwi mm m i Mt4
From thft I had atHtfl pctscp, onfj; to find
inrir.
Sow I (nm( brorfl te help me to don my
ormor;
l,tt hard blow of trouble alrike fire Into mb
Ltt mi hrart oral In pain- bentlna flie ilniiu
of tfiy Hclorv
Hi) JinniM tlmll bo utterly empttnl to tofc up
thu trumpet.
Toqoto.
A fine old man, reminding one partly of
a benign Banta Ctaus and partly nf a
sagacloui patriarch, arrived In Uroail Street
Station thta nftnrnoon
Ho l" Sir rtnblndrnmith Tngore. ItenRnll
poet, nbout whoeo visit to America o cry
body Is talking, whoso poems nearly every
ono has rend nnd whoAs talk at the Ogontx
School tonight nil thoso fortunate enough
to hnvo been Invited are engcrly awaiting.
The genius of Sir nnblndrnnath startled
the world. Ono year ho wan entirely tin
known to the Occident ; tho next ho had been
discovered, his poemi translated and ho
himself awarded tho Nobel prize for litera
ture. In his long flowing Orlentat robes he
made a striking nppenranco today as ho
walked down tho tralnshed, and, contrasted
with the men who surrounded him In their
conventional costume, he mado n rare pic
ture. Peaco H the subject dearest to his heart,
and ho misses no opportunity to arraign
westorn civilisation, which li responsible, in
hli opinion, for the world war.
"God," said Tngore, "mado man to bo
human, but under tho hard-cut finish of the
manufacturo now known ns man It Is illlll
cult to discern the spirit Our psychology
la now that of fighting elements, not of
co-operation. It Is that which mnkci tho
struggle botwecn man nnd woman. In
tho unceasing war for BUccesstho thread
that bound man to woman is broken.
"Ands look at the anarchists. Seeing the
power "mado In the political laboratory,
seeing fortunes out of all proportion nnd
greed which has no limit, seeing that suc
cess Is tho ono end of tho machine of your
westorn nationalism, seolng tho contests
that rise out of tho bloody mucl: of Interna
tional diplomacy. Is It any wonder that
their strikes and protests nil your papcra7"
Tagoro said that he had recently como
from Japan, whore ho tried to warn tho
people against western-nationalism, but was
rowarded by having tho papers say that his
speeches were "poetlo with the poetry of
a defeated people "
"You now seo Japan mado over In your
image," ho said, "but you do not exclaim,
It Is good I' No. you seo In this new Japan
one moro reason for preparedness. Ah, you
of tho west, you think you are freo, but
you are bending your backs under the bur
don of nationalism. Your nations, with tho
endless bull fights of politics, with the
blasphemous prayers In churches, nro mere
machines. Or rather they are llko huge
giraffes, with greedy heads, having exag
gerated dental development, cropping tho
tops of the foliage, but with bad digestion
and hearts empty of blood.
"And this great war In Hurope Is tho
fifth act of the unreal. I hope that the
tyranny of the nations may never bo re
stored. In this war tho west Is face to face
with her new creations "
Tagoro Is typically the man of medita
tion. In ills conversation ho seems for the
most part almost unconscloui of his listen
er, and appears to bo rather reducing his
Ideas to tho clearest posilblo Kngllsh for
his own benefit. And when the audience
Is ended, and with gracious courtesy ho has
taken leave of his visitor, he seems to sink,
almost Instantly, quietly back Into tha re
cesses of his own profound meditations
QUAKERS MEET
SOUTHERN TEAM
r r-- '
West Virginia "Wesleyan
Tackles Penn Eleven on.
Franklin Field
VISITORS AN ENIGMA
Three Red and Blue Regulars,
Mathews, Bell and Little,
Out of Game
Pomewhero between the Ynle-Itnrvnrd
brawl, tho Army-Nay melee, tho Lafnette
l.chlgh quarrel nnd the Swarthmore-Haver-ford
muss, llob Folwoll'M crotl nnd West
Virginia Wesleyan Inserted a gridiron con
test on Franklin Field today. This nurprls
Ing bit of liens In not based on rumor, but
Is ouched for by Mr. Folwcll himself and
Conch Nealo, of tho visitors
In tho hurricane of nig league stuff this
zephyr of a practice gaum mado little Im
pression. lIowriNcr, It In a serious prob
lem for tho Qunker coaches not because
of a. possibility of West Vlrgtnla winning,
(or It apparently hasn't any moro
chance than u teal fighter has of rotting
n match with a champion, but bcrauso of
the effect tho game may have on tho wear
ers of tho Ked and Blue on the eve of the
Cornell gnmo.
Penn's mntlnco opponents are more or
less of a football mystery. No one lias
anything to do with football nt tho West
Philadelphia Institution known Just how
strong tho southerners aro. The fact that
they beat Hethnny by a larger rcore than
did cither Klato or Pitt may or mny not
bo significant Comparative Rcores aro no
moro tellablo than tho weatherman.
Tho Quakers entered tho game without
thrco or their regular players. Tho miss
lng three wore Captain Mathews. Ilcrt
Bell and I.ou Utile. The Penn leader is
In poor physical condition as tho result
of successive Injuries In tho Pitt, Dart
mouth ami Michigan games, nnd tho
coaches gao him permission to attend the
Hnrvard-Yalo gnmc Bell Is still Buffering
from a bruised thigh sustained In tho con
test with tho Wohorlncs, and Llttlo Is un
der suspension.
TItzol, tho Pltsburgh youth, was soon
In Little's position. Jimmy Bryant, whose
mechanical work against Dartmouth was
a revelation, directed tho team from the
quarterback position and Wagoner played.
In Captain .Mathews s place.
All of tho other regulars started the
game. The Quaker coaches are not under
rating tho visitors and Folwell declared
that he would keep his first-string men
until tho game was won beyond a shadow
of doubt.
DEATH DOOM FOR AS1IBRID6E
Slnyer of Actrcss"and Jail GUnrd Sen
tenced in Camden to Dio Week
of December 31
The death sentenco on Wilson Ashbridge,
convicted slayer of Elizabeth Dunbar, an
nctrcss, wns uronounced today by Justice.
Garrison, of tho Now Jersey Supreme Court,
nt Camden. Ho will bo. electrocuted during"
the week beginning December 31.
At tho samo tlmo George B. Thompson,
Ashbrldgo's accomplice In tho sensational
Camden County Jail-breaking of July 17, in
which a keeper was killed, was sentenced
to servo from five to thirty years In tho
penitentiary. The two prisoners wero taken
to Trenton In charge of Sheriff Hewitt,
Ashbridge, who Is twonty-two years old,
henrd tho sentenco with his characteristic
cool demeanor and mado no comment In
direct contrast was Thompson's behavior.
Ho was plainly relieved.
"I guess the Judge had flno eggs nnd
Java for breakfast," ho smiled Jnuntlly ns
ho wns led to his coll. "If he'd had tho
cold-slorago variety. mabc It would have
gone hard with me "
Miss Dunbar was murdered January 22.
Besides killing her, Ashbrldgo admitted that
ha fired tho shots Hint killed Keeper Isaac
Hlbbs nnd wounded Keeper Joseph Hills In
tho Jall-breaklng
QUICK NEWS
TODAY'S FOOTBALL SCORES
HARVARD 3 o ' "
VALE o G
ARMY iq .
NAVY q
SVMRTHMORE. . O
HAVERKORD 0
LEHIGH 7
LA PAYETTE O n
PUNN O 16 .-, .
W, VA. WESLEYAN OO?"
f".
ENDS LIFE IN SALOON! SAID HE WAS BOLAND'S BROTHER
A limn who snicl he wns William Bolnntl, biotnoi' of Eclwnul Uo
Imul, slnln by Ellla D. FHgar In rnirmotml Pntlc, followed this dcclnv
ultou today by committing suicide In Kelly's saloon, Thirteenth nnd
l'nrrislt btrcetn, by UtooUng- lilmsolf with revolver. A few minutcti
befaie lie htul been reading nn account of ycstculny'a hcnilii, in
which Trigar wns released in bail.
OLNEY URGES FEDERAL CONTROL OF RAILROADS
WASHINGTON, Nov. 35. Hlchniil Oley, oT Uoston, -former
Sectetaiy of Stnte in tho Cleveland Cabinet and ono of the roiemoht
eonutttulIou.il lavyeis in tho cotmtiy, tills afternoon btupiiscd tho
joint Congicstiloiiul ltnlfiond Committee by advocating lcvolutlotmry
laws inovldlntj for direct lTcdcral coutiol of all nationnl ralhoads to
rcjilnco Ihu picsent dual Stato and Tcderal supervision systom. Mr.
Olucy's arguments wco pic&entcd in tho foim of a memorandum
by A. 1. Thorn aa tho climax to hi& three-day plea iu behalf of the
ralhonds gcucially.
PLEADS FOR CENTRAL
CONTROL OF RAILROADS
More Power for Federal Com
mission Urged by Counsel
Before Probers
CONDUIT WIRE FALLS CAUSING SHORT CIRCUIT
Ufticcs nnd factoilcs in the suction of Uhiladulpliia botween Mat
hot and 'Chcatnut qml Seventh nnd 1'iftU streets-wcie pranged into
dnrlcness shortly after 1 o'clock this attcnioon, bticct cms weio titallcd
am" traffic blocked for twenty minutes when n conduit wire fell, caus
ing a. short circuit and wca'Tteninjr of tho electric current In that
section of tho city.
PRESIDENT WILL ATTEND SERVICE FOR DEAD RULER
WASHINGTON, Nov. 20, Tho ricaldout and Mia. WllbOii, mem
bers of tho United States Supremo Couit, lcndeis in Congreaa and all
Ambassadoia and Ministeia of nations allied with the Ccntrnf Powers
uu.il of neutral nations vAU attend tin elaborate memorial scrvico to
ba hold at St. ratrick's Wednesday niornlurr In honor of the lato
rroncla' Joseph, Cardinal Gibbons wKT preside.
CARNEGIE CELEBRATES EIGHTY-FIRST BIRTHDAY QUIETLY
NEW YORK, Nov. 25. Andrew Carnegie celebrated his eighty-first birthday
qulotly at ills homo in East Ninety-second otroet. Tho condition of tho aged
financier'!) health is such that nothing; elaborate was permitted. Scores of tele
Kiams fiorn nil parts of the country poured into tho homo during tho day.
REDFIELD HEADS PROBE
OF COST OF LIVING
MEANS NATION'S DEFENSE
WASHINGTON. Nov.- 25. Alfred I.
Thorn, counsel for the railway executives,
today pointed to lessons learned from rigid
regulation of railroads by Huropean bellig
erents as proof that "transportation lies
at tho base" of an efficient system of na
tional defense.
Thorn mado tha declaration before the
Joint Coneresslonal Committee Investigating
publlo utilities. His chief plea was for
greater centralization of regulation of rail
roads. Ho reiterated his declaration that
much of the power held by Stato commis
sions should be given to a centralized Federal
body, but Insisted ha did not believe State
commissions should be abolished, slnco thcy
must be depended upon to protect State In
terests, Ho suggested the following "chief
features" which tha railroads believe should
bo Incorporated Into any system of regula
tion adopted by tha Government;
Tha entire power and duty of regula
tion should be In the hands ot the na
ftlonal Government except us to mat
ters esesnttally local and incidental.
As one of tho means of accomplish
ing this a system gf Federal Incorpora
tion should be adopted. Into which
should be brought 'all railroad cor
porations engaged In Interstate or for
eign commerce.
Reorganization of Hie Interstate
Commerce Commission and creation of
a new Federal railroad commission and
regional commissions subordinated
The Interstate Commerce Commis
sion should be given power to pre
scribe minimum rates.
Tho poaer of tho commission to sus- ,
pend rate should be confined to sixty
days from the time the tariff Is tiled in
stead of ten months as at present.
The Federal Quvernment should nave
Exclusive governmental power to su
pervise issuance of securities by inter
state, carriers.
Sir. Thorn probably will contlau oU ar
aiment Jra th WBgroteHagw Juo it re
A
How to Increase Production and
Improve Distribution Ob
jects of Study
EMBARGO NOT PLANNED
Government Regulation of Prices Not
Contemplated
HARRIS, THEATRICAL MAGNATE, DEAD
IlAYSIDi:, N. Y.. Nov. 25. William Han iff, theatrical magnato, died at his
homo lioro today. At ono tlmo Harris controlled nineteen theaters In New York,
lioston nnd Chicago, but In Intor yearn relinquished some of his holdings. Hit son,
Henry II. Harris, also a producer, perished on tho Titanic.
CRAMPS DENY PLAN TO BUY NEWPORT NEWS YARDS
Henry S. Groves, president of the William Cramp & Sons Ship and Englno
IJulldlng Company, today denied a roport emanating from Wall Street that Ills
company is negotiating for tho control of tho Nowport News Shipbuilding nnd
Drydocklns Company. "I have no knowledge of such u morger," ho said, "and
do not believe tho roport is true."
JAGOW NAMED LIFE MEMBER OF UPPER HOUSE
AMSTERDAM, Nov. 25. Appointment of former Foreign Minister Gottlieb
von Jagoiv aa a llfo member of tho upper house of tho Relchstug und selection
of William von Stumm nnd Uaron von Dem Ilusch to net Jointly ns under-secro-tarles
of the Foreign Ofllce were reported in Uerlln ndvlces hero today.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 25.
How,to Increase and, If possible, mora
equitably distribute the nation's food sup
ply nnd thereby combat rising prices, was
subjected to Got eminent Btudy today when
the Commerce Department, under personal
supervision of Secretary lledfleld, began
preliminary work on this question that
affects every Inhabitant of the country
It Is the belief of Administration officials
that the chief reason for high prices now
Ilea in the fact that food production dur
ing tho last year was below normal, while
exportatlons have greatly Increased,
It is held by Administration officials and
others very close to the Tresldent that the
food problem Is one demanding closest and
most careful study, not only from local
angles, but also "from the viewpoint of the
entire world, and that It cannot, under such
conditions, be handled as a purely domestic
Issue,
In this connection officials said much an
noyance has been caused by "irresponsible
exploitation" of the so-called "AdminUtra.
tlon views" on the food situation In this
country, Reports that the President has
silently approved proposals for a foodstuffs
embargo were denounced as "fabrications
without foundation."
It was also explained tha there la no in.
tendon of establishing a Government regu
lation of food distribution "even in any way
remotely approaching" the food dictator
ship systems now instituted In almost all
belligerent nations abroad.
Ex-SoMier Found Shot in Head
WIIMINGTON. Del.. Nov. 25, Alpnzo
I Drake, a soldier formerly at Fort du, Pont,
who has been at work in a projectile plant
at New Castle, is In a dangerpus condition
at Delaware tiospiiai. no was found in a
ditch near tbe p4aot with u bullet wound
talis h& and tfu autb.orjtii xprea the
telle Wt be trt t Ml niraU,r
BRAESIER CASTLE TORPEDOED, GREEKS DECLARE
LONDON, Nov, 25. Tho Evening Star's Athens correspondent today declared
that Greek authorities at Tliioa Islo havo reported that tho British hospital nhlp
Braemer Castle, sunk yesterday, was toriedoed while carrying -100 Uritish wounded.
$50,000,000 IN BRITISH GOLD COMING TO UNITED STATES
NEW YORK, Nov. 25. Another stream of British gold, probably totaling about
150,000.000 worth, will begin to pour into the United States Monday to offset the
new British loan being sought horo today through bond sales. Four hundred nnd
seventy millions in gold havo poured Into tho United States In tho last four mouths.,
EIGnT-HOUR LAAY APPEAL REACHES SUPREME COURT
WASHINGTON, Nov, 25, The question of the constitutionality of tho Adorn
son eight-hour law Is up to the United States Supreme Court today. Formal flHng
of pupera Jn the case Is expected by Monday or Tuesday, at the latest. Whether
the highest tribunal will be able or willing to speed Us praveibially alow-moving
Judicial machinery Jn order to act finally on. the case by January X still temuins a
question, although belief still Is strong that It will bo several weeks after New
Year's before this is done.
GREAT DEMAND FOR FEMALE LABOR IN GERMANY
BERLIN, Nov. 25, Employment agencies throughput the empire report that
thero la a great demand for female labor In Germany, Women now employed are
demanding that their wages be raised tq at least ten cents oil hour. Unskilled
female labor In the leather and metal goods trades la In apeolal demand, nnd
already thousands of women have taken the places of the men called away to
the war,
MANY FOOTBALL
CONTESTS SLATED
THIS AFTERNOON
Harvard - Yale and Army
Navy Most Important
Struggles on List
EXPECT RECORD CROWD
Seven Uig Games on
Today's Gridiron Card
sIMfnriAril. nt Neir llartn. . .
Armr-Nnvy. nt I'olo (Jronml, New York.
Intrrrnrd-Hn-iirtlimore. at llaTtrtord.
l-nfnrttr-l-rlilih..nt I'matnn.
lVnn-H'ent MrelnU Vtnlerun. nt ITrnnk
lln I Md.
Ohio Nlnle-N'orlhiTfftlrrn, nt Colpmoii". .
Nnrtlieniil Hlili-Mrnl rhlluili-lphlp lllxh.
nt Nortlifant Jfltld, Tvrnt-nlnlh anil Homer
Art streets.
By ROBERT W. MAXWELL
Sports Killtor Kte.m0 I.ritttn
This Is tho blgccBt football day America
has seen for many year. Six contests are
scheduled, each of which is of major Im
portance, nomo In Ita own locality and
others throughout tho entire country. It
thn crowds could bo accommodated, at least
200,000 would witness theso games, but lack
of seating facilities will keep the total at
tendanco down to n paltry 150,000.
Yalo will meet Harvard in tha Bowl, and
this, perhaps, is tho most Important battle
of tho day. Tickets havo been sold to
77,000 persons, making It tho largest crowd
that over witnessed a gnmo In tho United
States. Tho Army and Navy will clash on
tho Poto Grounds, nnd somo CO, 000 will pass
through tho gates. Lehigh and Lafayette
will draw 10,000 at Bnnton. pad the Haver-ford-Swarthmoro
nrguincut. which la the
fcaturo In thin section, should attract a
llko number. Out nt Franklin Field Penn
will play a practice game with West Vlr
glnlo. 'Wesleyan, but this Is not so Im
portant, nnd last, but not least to usa
an original expression those who crave
BcholaRtlo football can wander out to
Twenty-ninth and Cambria streets and
watch Northeast and West Phtlllo put on
their act.
Yale's sudden reversal of form and the
remarkable gamo ngalnat Princeton has
added interest to tho Harvard combat, and
tho majority of tho crowd will push Its way
Into tho Bowl to seo Harvard get trimmed
for tho flttit time In many years. The
wlso ones figure that Old Ell Is due to
triumph ovor thq Crimson, but thoy have
been thinking
that very thlnjf
as long an wo
can remember,
Harvard always'
has tho edge, nnd
she has it today
before the gams
begins. Tho play
ers know more
football, thoy
havo a powerful
attack and their
dcfemilvo game
cannot be im
proved upon.
Then thoy have
prepared espe
cially for the
Valo game, allow
ing Brown to
win rather than
tako a chance on
stars injured. Also,
opportunity to see
that the uue
Haughton
IJLAC1C. Yale
NEW SUPER-ZEPPELIN REPORTED WRECKED IN GALE
AMSTERDAM, Nov. 26. Travelers from Munloh arriving today reported that
a new German super-Zeppelin was wrecked In Tuesday's gaje between Friedrlchs
haven and 'Wilhelmshaven. Twenty-seven are said to have perished In tha accident,
only one being rescued.
NAVY BUDGET FOR 1918 ESTIMATED AT $400,000,000
WASHINGTON, Nov. 25. Tbe I8U naval appropriation bill probably will be
one ot tbe first groat supply bills ready for consideration In the House when Con
gress convenes next month, It will c&rry a toal p$ nearly 4100,00,008, Rapid
proOTtsu ha been made by the Hpu navt subsmHta engaged la preHnUaMif
wetfc An tb measure. r
4 - - -
getting any of tho
Harvard has had an
Ynlo In action, something
cannot say nbout the Crimson,
and seven of his players saw the Princeton
gamo last week and have an Idea of what
10 expect, this gives tuem a Dig advan
tage, Tho news that four of Yale's regulars'
wero In tho hospital with tonsllltls was re
ceived with alarm by the adherents of Old
Hli, but It is safe to say that they will be
among those present when Nate . Tufts
blows the whistle this afternoon. Both.
vurslly ends, with-Captain Black and Quar
terback Smith, wore reported to be on the
sick list und removed to tha Infirmary, but
this was only a precaution to prevent the
men from taking cold. Tho other members
of tho team aro In good shape.
Harry La Gore and Jim Uradcn are Tad
Jones's hopes in the backfleld. The former
Is a wonder In the open field, pan punt and
hurl the forward pass and lias few equals
when It cornea to
running around
the ends. Ills In
dividual play has
won several ot
tha earlier games.
Uradcn, who
started the scor
Ing against
Prince ton last
week when ho
booted a goat
from field. Is a
terrlflo line plung
er, a good drop
kicker and a won
der on the de
fense. Captain
Black Is better
than iny man on
the Harvard line
anu "'""" 1.15 UORE, Tale
can hold their .
own. The only weakness la team play
and In thin department Harvard shines.
Eddie Casey la the Crimson star who !
expected to rip through, around and over
tho Bue rush line for substantial gains.
Eddie is a former pupil or Taj Jonea and
will use the knowledge Imparted by Jones
to defeat his recent tutor. Casey is a
nara man to1 stop
in tho ope.n Held,
as ha squirms out.
of the way of th
tuuklerq , and
twUta and turns
a few yards more
after he appar
ently has been
stopped. HorwHii,
another member
ot the backfleld.
also Is a good
player. U punt
and dropkjoks
well and ia m
power on the a.
tense. This pair
seems to havo tha
edge on LeGor
an4 Braden, Dick;
Harte, of Phlla.
dclchla, will tiIiy
one ot the ends.
After looking at the game frpm all
angles. Harvard seem to hay the better
team and should win,
Tho Army and Navy smtygle abte ma
easy to pu, but yew. wr e Wt Qm.
orta, tha Seyp W m itef,
wife ' Mi
HtN i
JIA1VFH, lrtry'4
.A
.'"t S8f"'SlBBpWWlfc,-
