Mmln
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Nov. 22, 31.92.
WEATHER
Arizona: Saturday and
Sunday fair; not much
change in temoerature.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VNOZIdV XIN30Hd
x 4juj.iri iujjoiux r FIVE CENTS
VOL. 19. NO. 146.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 25, 1916.
VILLA LEADS HIS
FORLORN HOPE
CHIHUAHUA
Machine Guns Rake Ranks of Bandits Who Tried to Creep
Up Under Cover of Arroyo Dead and Wounded Are
Left on Battlefield After Comrades Fled in Disorder
Bodies of General Julio Acosta and Secretary Andres
Sada Found.
!
(By Review
JUAREZ. Nov. 24. Francisco Yill
outside of Chihuahua City, after retu
tack which lasted until 9 o'clock last
tonight by Carranza liere.
It is said that Villa's apparent rei
tary ruse. After General Ozuma purs
other large body of bandits appeared
tacked. Ozuma, It is stated, returned
Telegraphis communication betw
mained open tonight.
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Nov. 24. (via
El Paso Junction) Another attack by
the Villa bandits from the east was
begun at six o'clock today and was re
pulsed, as were the other attacks by
the bandits, with heavy losses to the
attacking forces.
The machine guns again did deadly
execution in the ranks of the bandits,
who crept up from the east under cover
of a deep arroyo or dry wash. These
rapid firers cut down the advancing
thin linen of hand its like a. mower in :
a field of standing grain. The dead
ami wnunrieri were left on th hnttie-.
field, as was done In the previous as
saults. The enemy finally broke and ran in
disorder, the heavy artillery taking up
the thread of the fighting when the
machine euns were out-raneed. Oen- i
eral Ozuna, commander of General
Trevino's cavalry fbrces pursued the ; attention or we i.arranza iorces is oe
bandits and completed the rout of the ! inS turned to burying the 'dead and
forces which had attempted to gain an j succoring the wounded both bandit
entrance to the city by way of the i and government soldiers who were
arroyo and slaughter house. J left on the battle field after today's
The Villa force's fled toward the j Cfih ting, official reports from Chihua
northwest and are now believed f! bejhua City Bay. The Carranza geneial
out of touch with the remaining Villa reported killed is said to be General
commands.
Among the wounded today was Gov
ernor Francisco Trevino, brother of
General Trevino, who was shot in the
hand. Twt officers of General Trevi
no's general staff have been killed dur
ing the two days of fighting. The body
of General Julio Acosta, one of Villa's
commanders, was found to the west of
the city, as was the body of Andres
Sada, Villa's secretary. General Acos-'
to was killed in action by Colonel
Cadera of the Carranza cavalry col-
umn, during the cavalry engagement
yesterday. . .
General Trevino's wound, received
yesterday, has been attended to by
Colonel Martinez, of the army medical
corps and the fever resulting from the
wound has abated. He was again in
personal command today and made an
t
inspection f the
his staff.
fortifications with j
An effort was made during the early",
hours of the morning to storm Santa !
Rosa Hill and capture the artillery
General Gonzales Cuellar's infantry re
mained quiet and allowed the bandits
to approach within easy rifle range be-
fore opening fire upon the advancing j
ranks, when they poured a murderous
fire into the first files f the bandits
and followed this with volleys at in-; their trains which were left between
tervals of one minute. The result was ! Mapula and Horcasitas. on the Mex
another retreat, which started at 2:30 llcan Central line. Villa was reported
a. m. and prevented the Villa bandits! late today to have fled to his old
(Continued on Page Seven) (Continued on Page Three)
'SF
GUILT FOR HIGH COST
,By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. Nov. 24. In de
fense of the farm, the national grange
in annual session here, issued a state-
ment tonight analyzing the high cost,
of living and attributing, the rising j
prices oi larm products to poor crops i
and tne increasing cost or what the i crops.
farmer has to buy. If embareos are I "it must be borne in mind that the
to be placed to help the situation, the nlirh prices have struck the farmer in
statement says, they should be on j whatever he buys, as much as it has
manufactured products, particularly thp cty consumer. Farm labor is
munitions of war. Prohibition of i 8carcer and higher than ever. Every
gambling in food stuffs and provision j thing the farmer buvs. whether ma-
of more storage bouses under control j chinery. fertilizer, clothing or the ne- by the supreme court and announce
of the farmers themselves also are cessaries of life, have increased in ' ment was made by Frank Haccrman,
suggested. A statement, drafted by a
special committee under instructions .
from the grange said in part:
"In many countries with cheap lab-1
or and high priced lands the yield per
acre exceeds that of the United
States. The American farmer with
cheap lands and high priced labor
produces many times as murh per
man as does the farmer of any coun
try in the world.
"The high price of farm products is
due to several causes. The climatic
FORGES IN
ATTACK UPON
GITY; VANQUISHED
Leased Wire.)
a and his troops are encamped tonight
rning this afternoon to renew an at
night. This announcement was made
treat early this afternoon was a mili
ued a column for some distance, an-
iti another quarter again and au-
with his forces to the city,
een Juarez and Chihuahua City re-
Villa, Defeated, '
Seeks Safety In
Mountain Haunts
(By Review Leased Wire.)
JUAREZ, Nov. 24. Francisco Villa5
uas laueu iu ui icinrakcu iruui us iu
capture Chihuahua City from the de
facto forces, high Carranza officials
here who are in constant touch
with the developments in the state
capital, declared emphatically tonight. :
After two days of almost continuous I
fighting. Villa has been driven from
the vicinity of the city and has left
for the northwest with the remnants
01 his command, they say. ith the
reported withdrawal tf the enemy, the (
Gandara, a former follower of Villa,
who received amnesty.
The fighting today as yesterday's as ! it necessary, was signed here today
far as can be learned from the typical- by the members of the Mexican-Am-ly
brief military messages which hav I erican joint commission,
come over the federal wire and from I One of the official copies was taken
the more amplified. Associated Press
dispatches, was centered around the
! east sector of the defensive wtirks.
Creeping along a pebbly, dry wasl in
the direction of Santa Eulalia, to the
east of the capital, the bandits opened
their attack in unision at 6 a, m.
upon the infantry entrenched behind
breastworks extending along the plains
to the east. Upon being" repulsed
with rifle, machine gun and shrapnel
fire the bandits made a wide detour
land swung off to the northwest on
! their diminutive cow ponies. This at-
tack continued until after nine o'clock
and followed an early morning at-
. v ' j . wit ma uauuiis hj tapiuic
Santa Rosa Hill to the southeast of i
the town and obtain possession of the
cannon which crown this hilL
Other fighting was reported during,
the day from the northwest in the
vicinity of Las Escobas ranch and to
the south where General Apolonio
Trevino, with his cavalry, made an
effort to cut off the Villa bandits from
conditions of this country during the
past year were perhaps one of the(
leading causes of crop shortage. For
example, the wheat In the northwest
wa a crop failure; the corn crop was
in many sections a partial failure, as
we P8 (ne potato
and vegetable
prjce by leaps and bounds. This is
ai0 true of taxation, the increase be-
ine in manv sections fiftv nercent or
morp, during the last five years.
"
"The fact that nearly one-half of the
civilized world has left the field of
production and entered upon the
work of destruction has increased the
demand for all kinds of products and
goods. We believe that prices will
KUM
LI
be high for several years, especially, Wednesday by Judge Hook, who held members of his cabinet in his study, cording to the laws of the interna
for manufactured goods. As to the that the law was unconstitutional, h'jwever, and was said to be better to- tional swimming federation, officials
(Continued on Page Three.) The appeal was immediately taken, j night. of which supervised the swim.
FALL OF MON ASTIR NOT DECISIVE BLOW
That the fall of Monastir to
armies is the opinion of in.::U y expo; .-, 't ;s p'--it o;it Hat tlie Hula.ian general staff is second only to
that of Germany, and that Uui;,ui- ro. isi.w.' vviil stiffen iliier than wcuken from now on. t
Protocol Providing Terms
For Permanent Peace With
Mexico On Way to Carranza
(By Review Leased Wire.)
ATLANTIC CITY, Nov. 24. A proc-1 in Chihuahua shall be withdrawn with
tocol providing for the conditional j in 30 days from ths approval of the
withdrawal of the American troops I proctocol by the respective govern
now in Chihuahua, Mexico, and fori ments, provided that within that time
the military control of the border, j the conditions in that part of Mexico
but the supplemental stipulation that
United States troops shall be sent in
to Mexico in pursuit of bandits at any
time the American government deems
by Alberto J. Pani, of the Mexican
commission, who left here tonight for
New York whence he will start Mon
day for Mexico to submit it to Gener
al Venustiano Carranza for his ap
proval. The other copy will be deliv
ered to the American government by
Secretary Franklin K. Lane, chairman
of the American commission, who
left here late today for Washington.
If the proctoccl is ratified by the
two governments, the commission will
re-convene on December 8 to resume
the discussion of other questions of
life and property of Americans and
other foreigners in Mexico. If rati-
"cation by either government is with-
held, the work of the conference will
be declared at an end.
Where the adjourned session of the ;
commission will be held was not de
termined when the conference was
finished. The question was left to
Secretary of State Lansing and Ambassador-designate
Arredondo. Fol
lowing is a paraphrase of the agree
ment to which the last signature was
affixed at 3:49 o'clock this afternoon:
AdamsonLawCase
Races Against Time
To Supreme Court
(By Review Leased Wire.)
KANSAS CITY, Nov. 24. All pre
liminary obstacles to a decision by
the supreme court of the United
States on the Adamson law were
wiped out' today. The on'y possible
hitch in the proceedings now lies in
the question whether the highest
court will advance the case and c:.n
render a decision by January 1, when
i tlif law is scheduled to co into effct.
Tie case of the Atch'son, Topeka
and S)nta Fe and of other f Iwpvs
which had applied to Judge Pollock's
in the United States district court t
Kansas City, Kansas, were by agree
ment postponed until after decision
special, assistant to the atfrni-y gen
eral in Adamson law cases pnd Wal
ker D. Hines. chairman of tne com-1
,
miuee oi ranroaa counsel i-ia' simi
nr postponements would be request
ed in all courts of the country where
in Injunction suits have been filed.
The case which goes to the upper
trit.unal is that of the Missouri. Okla-hoi-a
and Gulf, heard hurriedly here
A 41 . .23
x --,2 i?J
View of Mf nastir. showing Cerna rive
the French and Serbian forces is not a
"FIRST--The American troops now
have rot become such as to endanger
the American border. In such event
the time shall be -'Ttinded.
"SECOND The American army
shall patrol the American side of the
border and the Mexican army hall
patrol the Mexican side, but this shall
not preclude cooperation between the
two forces to preserve peace on the
border.
"THIRD It shall be left to the com
nianding officers of the armies on the
border of both nations to enter Into
such p.rrangements for cooperation in
operations against bandits whenever
it is possible."
The right of the American govern-
ment to send troops across the border
: . l. .:... ... . I I
in iiurHuu ui uuuujis was uui iiiuui-
porated in the proctocol but was made
the subject of a supplemental memo
randum. The Mexicans had contended
earnestly against signing any agree-1
ment in which they appeared to sanc
tion what they termed the violation
of their territory. It was the agree
rnent of the Americans finally to con-
tent themselves with stating the atti
tude of the United States in separate
memorandums that induced the Mexi
cans to sign.
It became known today that the
first request of the Mexicans for a
recess was made several days ago.
. in j ucsut-u iu ouiiuii "i v. . ... . .
Carranza all the facts in the case and
20,000 U. S. TROOPS
STAGE SHAM BATTLE.
BROWNSVILLE, Nov. 24. A
sham battle today between the
invading "browns" and defending
"whites" near here concluded the
war, nine days of maneuvers.
Twentv thousand men narticlDat-
ed and Brigadier General James i
Parker, commanding, expressed
satisfaction with results shown.
Tonight the national guard
forces . of Indiana, Minnesota, I
Nebraska, South Dakota. North '
Dakota, Louisiana and Oklahoma
camped in Brownsville. Tomor-
row on the Palo Alto battlefield. ,
they, witli ..lie regulars who parti-
cipated in the war game, will be
reviewed by General Parker.
Army surgeons report that of
the 20.000 nu-u in the field, fewer
than 400 were reported sick and
that a majority of these returned
to their duty within a short time.
WILSON'S GOT IT, TOO.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 24. President
.!. ,gniio,i hi. .i,n
, llflll bUlllf.111 ..IHVittH 1110 1UUW
' for going to New York tomorrow to
attend the Army-Navy football game
, because of a cold from which he has
been suffering for several days. His
condition is not considered serious.
The President saw no culleis today
and remained indoors. He met with
TO BULGAR HOPES
r
decisive blow to the Bulear-Teuton
! to obtain from him advice as to the
course they should take. The Ameri
cans opposed such action, contending
that further delay was inadvisable.
Yesterday the insistence of the Mexi
cans resulted in a consideration of the
suggestion and today's session was re
sumed with all members of the com
mission present.
The Mexican were not yet willing
to sign, but the Americans succeeded
in convincing them that inasmuch as
the correspondence which had led to
the occasion of the commission pro
vided for the submission of the agree
ment to their representative govern
ments for approval, time could be
saved by taking the signed proctocol
to Carranza.
The clause providing for the with
drawal of General Pershing's forces
states that should the bandits in Chi
huahua appear near the border in
such force as to prove a menace, the
American troops, acting Independent
ly or in conjunction with the Mexican
forces, may disperse them. In such j
case the time for their withdrawal I
shall be extended to such time as is
made necessary by the developments, i
The Mexican commissioners agreed i
that, as the American troops are -withdrawn,
Mexican troops shall be
moved forward to occupy the terri- j
tory evacuated. The disposition of I
the Mexican troops shall be left to the j
Mexican commander. General Persh-1
in?, is to have charge of the plan of
withdrawal and the right to use the !
railroad to Juarez for the transporta-!
nun ui 1119 uuuya uuu 1 11 iiiu triutrub
(Continued on Page Seven)
Wrong Man Held j
As Jean Crones,
(By Review Leased Wire.) i
SPALDING, Neb., Nov. 24. The i
f'suspect held here is not Jean Crones.
ilhe alleged Chicago poisoner. . This I
was the decision tonight of a Chicago
police officer and four newspaper men
from that city. The man was releas
ed tonight following the failure of a'
CHcago detective, the steward of the ,
University Club of Chicago, and four
newspaper men of that city, to Identi
fy him. i
-WELSH OUTPOINTED I
BY EDDIE WALLACE
MONTREAL, Nov. 24. Eddie Wal
lace of Brooklyn and Freddie Welsh, '
i lisheweight chamrion of the world, j
; engaged in a fast 10 round bout here i
; tonight. Official decisions are illegal ;
, in this city but sporting writers award '
I ed the victory to Wallace on points. 1
' Uotn wc,Klied in at 133 pounds.
STANFORD SWIMMER
MAKES WORLD RECORD:
SAN FRANCISCO. Nov. 24 Nor-,
man Rose of Stanford University I
swam 220 yards tonight at the Olyin-'
pic Club in two minutes twenty-one '
and three-fifths seconds and thereby
established a new world's record, ae
CHANCELLORS OE THREE GREAT
WARRING POWERS SUBSCRIBE
TO AIERICAN PEACE PUB
Respective Leaders of France, Germany and England Pledge
Their Support After Present Conflict to Principles of
League to Enforce Peace Which Call for Arbitration of
International Disputes German Premier Is Doubtful
However of Permanent Benefits.
(By Review
NEW YORK. Nov. 24. Messages of
j good will from the chancellories ot
tnree or turope s warring power?
read at a dinner given here tonight
by the League to Enforce Peace. The
t purpose of the banquet was to consider
!a program tor a permanent league of
nations at the close of the great con
flict. 1 Approval of the principles proposed
was given by Aristide Briand. premiei
! of France; Chancellor von Bethmann
Hollweg, of Germany, and Viscount
Grey. Great Britain's secretary ol
state for foreign affairs.
Mr. Briand's message said:
"I have the h'jnor to acknowledge
I the receipt of your communication.
the contents of which I have noted
with lively interest. In basing youi
effort on the fundamental principles
of respect for the rights and wishet
of the various peoples of the worlb
you are certain "of being on common
ground with the countries, who in the
present conflict, are giving their blood
and their resources, without countiug i
the cost to save the independence of
the nations."
From Viscount Grey the following
message was received:
"I think public utterances must
have already made it clear that 1 1 a rerutation or the claim that treaty
sincerely desire to see a league of ' obligations cannot be relied upon to
nations formed and made effective to : make such a league as this practica
secure future peace of the world after ble.
this war is over. I regard this as the 1
best, if not the only prospect of pre-.
serving treaties and of saving the !
world from aggressive wars in years
to come. If there Is any doubt about j
my sentiments in the matter. I hope '
this telegram in reply to your own!
will remove it."
i nanceuor von tseinmann-nouweg
sent as his message the following:
"We have not concealed our doubts
with regard to the question whether
peace could be permanently guar
anteed by such international Organiza
tions as arbitration courts.
"I shall not discuss the theoretical
aspects of the problem but we must
know and at the time of the conclusion
of peace, from the point of view of
(acts, our position with regard to this
question. When at and after the ed
of the war the world will become fuciy
conscious of its horrifying destruction
ot life and property, when through the
whole of mankind will ring a cry for
peaceful arrangements and understand
ing which as far as lies in human
power, shall avoid the return Vf such
a monstrous catastrophe. This cer
tainly will be bo powerful and so
justified that it must load to some re
sult. "Germany will honestly co-operate
in the examination of every endeavor
to find a peaceful conclusion of the
question and will collaborate to make
its realization possible. This will be
the more attainable if the war, as we
expect and trust, will create political
conditions which do full justice to the
free development of all nations, the
small ones as weil as the great natfrns.
Then it will be possible to realize
HEMES IMBED UP CASE
AGAINST
(By Lawrsnce Dean Clark)
ST. JOSEPH. Nov. 21. Motivos of
the prosecution were attacked in the
cri inal court here today in t!i" open
in? statement of the defense in the
trial of Prosecutor Oscar D. Mc Dan
iel, who is chartc'l wit'i bavin- "or
dered his wife. The lec!aration In
behalf of the acrnsod man, ma!e by
one of the dol'rrse at'orneys. et forth
also that no motive had been shown
that would cause Mi-Daniel to kill the
"noblest, happiest soul almost that
ever lived."
"No motive has been shown wy be
snou'd hnve killed her," the attorney
sa'd to the jury, "but we win nrove
to you by the evidence in this case
that the motive behind his prosecu
tion is b'ichted nnd pervrtei ambi
tion and Jealousy, counlod wi'h the
greed of go!d tnnt nia!:s the pal s
of detectives itch."
The accused man sat among bis
relatives giving almost no sien of
amotion except when his attorney told
in low tones of how the prosecutor
bad returned home after answering
Leased Wire.)
the principles of Justice and free de
velopment on land and freedom of the
seas, The first condition for evolution '
of international relations by way of
arbitration and peaceful compromise
of conflicting Interests should be that
no more aggressive coalitions are
formed in the future. Germany will
at all times be ready to enter a league
for the purpose of restraining the
disturbers of peace."
Lord Bryce. former British ambas
sador to the United States, al t) sent
to former President Taft, president of
the league, who presided at the din
ner the following telegram:
"Those working here on your lines
send heartiest sympathy with and
best wishes for your league's efforts."
NFW YORK. Nov. 2. Referring to
te approving messages received from
'u'onean stutesTien. Wm H. Taft,
president of the league, said:
"These statements tend to show
fst what we are proposing is not a
dream, but in its general lines com
mends itself to practical statesmen.
"The action of France, England and
Germany in fulfilling their obligations
in this war. in respect to an issue in
which they had not direct concern, is
"I don't think it too much to say
that when the war is over. Europe
will be ripe for the acceptance of a
plan like ours."
ARMY ANO NAVY MEN
BY THOUSANDS SEE GAME
NEW YORK. Nov. 24. Bringing be-
(ween 5.000 and 6.000 officers and
bluejackets to see the army-navy foot
ball game here tomorrow, seven great
battleships of the Atlantic fleet steam
ed into New York harbor tonight and
anchored in the Hudson River. Shore
leave will be granted tomorrow to as
many of the officers and men as pos
sible to permit them to see the annu
al contest between the army and navy
elevens. For those detained on board
the progress of the game will be re
ported by wireless.
FIRE TRAPS HUNDREDS
IN OHIO Y": ALL ESCAPE
COLUMBUS. O.. Nov. 25. More
than one hundred railroad men nar
rowly escaped death early this morn
ing when first broke out in the rail
way Y. M. C. A. building. Rapid
spread of the flames through the
building cut off the means ot exit
from the upper floors where the men
were sleeping. Three persons were
sJicht'y hurt. The damage to the
buliding was small
To take advantage of high price of
wheat in United States Balfour. Guth
rie & Co.. of San Francisco, will ship
large quentitics of cereal from Austra
lia, where, it is said, this year's crops
have been unusually heavy.
: a decoy telephone call to find his wife
f-ttacked and MreJing. on th floor of
her bedroom. Then tears started in
' Is eyes aiid his hand went to his
face.
P?ri M. Lockwsod. special prose
.'Hor. nho yr vcrVed up the case
-rin3 the arcus-d rr.an. was attack--d
by Attorney Lewis Gabbert of the
. defense.
"Mr I ockwood tins resented the on
i ward st. lie of this ambitious and
' splendid young man." the defender
i said, "and it has ever rankled in his
j h-.irt."
! G-bb-rt dramatically related the
! '.'f-ns-'s version of the incident the
nit Mrs McDar.iel was murdered,
av! concloded:
"They found him in bis borne bath
, 'n Ms wife's blood away. Before
: she died, this man. charged here with
! v ivin? murdered h.T. who was In a
' s'ate of collapse, and who collapsed
; s state's witnesses have testified.
I bent over and put a kiss upon her
lips the last he ever was to sive
I her."
filLS, CHARGED
t
