E ABIZOMA BEPXJBL
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
twent v-si-: v knti i ykau
10 PAGES rWXTIX. AlilZONA,
SATURDAY JtlOKNINO, NOVEMBER 25, 1910.
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVI f., NO. 190
. ,
TH
EUROPE'S 1095
ALL DESIRE TO
El
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YOKK, Nov. 24. Messages of
pood will from (In; chancellories of
three nf Kurope's warring powers were
read at u dinner giver here tonight by
the League to Enforce l'eace. The
purpose of the banquet was to con
sider a program for a permanent league
of nations at the close of the great
conflict. i
Approval of the principle proposed !
was ffiven by Arisiide liriand. premier
of France: Chancellor von Bethman- I
lloilueg of Ciermany. and Viscount1
Giey, Great liriiain's secretary- of state
for foreign affairs.
I'rernier Priand's message said: i
"1 have the honor to acknoweldge the
Receipt of your communication, the
contents ofswhich I have noted with j
lively interest. In basing your effort i
on the fundamental principles of re- :
sped for the rights and wishes of the I
Various peoples of the world, you are ;
certain of being on common ground i
with the countries, who in the present 1
conflict, are giving their blood, and,
their lesouxces. without counting the !
cost, to save the indepmdence of the
nations." I
From Viscount Grey the following j
message was received: ,
"I think public utterances must have j
already made it clear that I sincerely
desire to see a league of nations form-
ed and made effective to secure future j
peace of the world after this war is
over. I regard this as the best, if not
the only prospect of preserving treaties
a-rd of saving the world from agri-s
tive wars in years to come. If there Is i
any doubt about my sentiments in the
matter, 1 hope this telegram In reply to j
jour own will remove it." j
Chancellor von liethmann-Hollweg
sent as his message, extracts from a ;
speech he delivered on November 9 be- j
fore the committee on ways and means '
of the German reichstag. which follows: I
"We have never concealed our doubts ;
with regard to the question whether,
peace could be permanently guaranteed j
by such international organisations a-s !
tirbitration rourts. 1 shall, however, at '
this place not discuss the theoretical
aspects of the problem", hut we must 1
know, and at the time conclusion of
peace, from the sint of view of facts, '
define our position with regard to this ;
question. Vhen, atand after the end '
of the war, the world will become fully '
urisi.-ous of its horrifying destruction
of life and property, then through the
whole of mankind will ring a cry for
peaceful arrangements and understand- j
ings which, is far as lies in human I
power shall avoid the return of such J
a nujHUioiiTOtiMtrophe. This cer
tainly will be no powerful and so jus- J
tified that it must lead to some result. ;
"Germany will honestly co-operate
in the examination of every endeavor
to find a peaceful solution of the ques
tion, and wiil collaborate to make its
realization possible. This all the more j
liner tne war, as we expect and trust,
.will t reats political conditions which !
ilo full justice to the free development j
on land and freedom of the seas. The
first condition for evolution of inter
national relations by way of arbitra-!
lion and peaceful compromise of con- j
flu ting interests should be that no more
aggressive coalitions are formed in the!
future. Germany will at all times be!
ready to enter a league for the purpose!
erf restraining the disturbers of peace."
Lord liryce, former Hritish ambas
Fador to the I'nited States, also sent
to former President William Howard
Taft, president of the league, who pre
sided at the dinner,-the follow ing:
- "Those working here on your lines
send heartiest sympathy with and best
wishes for your league's efforts."
Referring to the approving messages
received from European statesmen.
William II. Taft. president of the
league, said tonight:
"These statements tend to show that
what we are proposing is not a dream,
but In its general lines commends itself
to practical statesmen.
"The action of France, England and
Germany in fulfilling their obligations
in this war, in respect to an issue in
which they had no direct concern, is a
refutation of the claim that treaty ob
ligations cannot be relied upon to make
Bin h a league as this practicable.
"I don't think it too much1 to say ttjat
when the war is over.' Europe will be
rip for the acceptance of a plan like
ours.''
o
MEXICAN WOMEN MEET
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 24. A well
nttended cohgress of Mexican women
to discuss educational and social ques
tions is in session at Merida, Yucatan,
according to Mexican advices reaching
here today. Most of those present are
from the states of Yucatan and (,'an
peche. The conJtress was called by
Governor Alvarado of Yucatan, to con
tinue the work of a similar meeting held
last January. Sessions will xentinue
until December 2.
o
Republican A. P. Leased WI--1
Hit iVVNr.VII.LE, Texas. Nov. 24. A
r'liam battle todav between the invad
ing "browns" and defending "whites,'
near here concluded the war nine days
of maneuvers. Twenty thousand-men
jiart-clpated and Brigadier General
James Parker, commanding, expressed
atiKfriction with results shown.
Toriltrht he national guard forces of
Indiana, Minnesota, Nebraska,, South
Jikola, Oklahoma and Louisiana
guardsmen camped In Prownsvllle
'lomorrow on the T'alo Alto battle
field, thev, v.ith the regular who
participated ir. the war game, will be
reviewed bv General Parker.
Army nngeons report that of the
2n.(i0'l men in the field, fewer than
four hundred reported sick and that a
majority of these returned to di.t;.
within -i siiort time.
IRK FOR PEACE
CLOSE OF MIMIC
BORDER WARFARE
BEATEN BANDIT FLEES
FROM CHIHUAHUA, CAN'T
BA TTER DOWN. DEFENSE
-
VILLA RETURNS
I Francisco Villa and his troops
j are encamped tonight outside of
I Chihuahua City, after returning
this afternoon to renew an attack
which lasted until 9 e'clock tonight,
i This announcement was made to-
I night by Carranza officials here. )
It' is said that Villa's apparent (
i retreat early this afternoon was a
1 military ruse. After General
i Ozuna pursued a column for some
I distance, another large body of )
bandits appeared in another quarter !
i again and attacked. Ozuna, it is
stated, returned with his forces to
I the city.
I Telegraphic communication be-
I tween Juarez and Chihuahua City i
1 remained open tonight. 1
D- - : L'
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.H AKEZ, Mex., Nov. 24. Francisco
Villa has failed in his repeated efforts
to ca it tire Chihuahua City from the de
facto forces, high Carranza officials
here who are in constant touch with
the developments in the state capital,
declared emphatically tonight.
After two days of almost continuous
fiirhtimr VilLi haa l.u,,i-i ,rie.n from
the vicinity of the'eity and has left fori""'" heavy, and are variously estimated
the northwest wit.i the remnants of
his command, they say. With the re
ported withdrawal of the enemy, the
attention of the Carraiyta forces is be
ing turned to burying the dead and
succoring the wounded both bandit
and government -soldiers who were
left on the ljattlefield after today's
fighting, ofucial reports from Chihua-
hua City say. The Carranza general i
reported killed is said to be General
Candara, a former follower of Villa,
who received amnesty.
The fighting today, as far as can be
learned from the typically brief mili
tary messages which have oome over
the federal wire and from the more am
plified Associated I'ress dispatches,
was centered around the eastern sec
tor of the defensive Works. Creeping
along a pebbhr. dry wash from, the di
rection of Santa Eulalia, to the east of
the capital, the bandits opened their
attack in unison at 6 a. m. upon the in
fantry entrenched behind breastworks
extending along the plains to the east.
'd V
gun and schrapnel fire, the bandits
made a wide detour and swung off to
the northwest n their diminutive cow
ponies. This attack continued until
after o'clock and followed an early ,
murr in. uttnm lI ut lha V 11 . ..n.ln.
t i capture Santa Kosa hill to the south-
e.,,, o, ..,e in an,, oota.n possession Arn.mtf the wounded todav was
of the cannon which crowns his hill. (?v,-rn. r Francisco Trevino. brother
Other fighting was reported durlnglrr i4enereT Tevlno. who was shot in
the day from the northwest m'the v.-i hu,, rV( ,,,,.,. lWt4.il
entity of Las KsroU. ranch, and to ( TreMno s general staff have been kill.
w,e ..,,., ,. . ie uene.ai Apoionio ire-
vino, with his cava lev, .mode an effort
to cut ort tne Mlla bandits from their
iiains. won ii were
i-ere betwe. Mapula
on the Mexican Central
and Morcasitas
line. Villa was reported late today to
taiiious Ouerrero district with the re-
niainder of his men. abandoning his 1
trains, but this was not verified In I
Juarez. I
The whereabouts of Ccin-ral
Jlur-
Dl
ROSECUTION IS
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire.l
ST. JOSEPH. Mo., Nov. 24. Motives
of the prosecution were attacked in the
criminal court here today in the open
ing statement of the defense in the trial
of Prosecutor Oscar D. Meltoniel, who
is charged with having murdered his
wife. The declaration in behalf of the
accused man made by one of the de
fense's attorneys, set forth also that
no mfitlve had been shown that would
cause McDaniel to kill the "noblest,
happiest soul almost that ever lived."
"No 'motive has been shown why he
should have killed lr," the attorney
said to the Jury, "but we will yrove to
you by the evidence in thin case that
the motive behind the prosecution Is
blighted and perverted ambition and
jealousy, coupled with the greed of
gold that makes the palms of detec
tives itch."
The uccused man sat among his rel
atives giving almost no sign of emotion
except when his attorney told in low
tones of how the prosecfitor had re
turned home after answering a decoy
telephone call to find his wife, attacked
and bleeding, on the floor of her bed
room. Then tears started In his eyes
nd his hand went to his face.
Bart M. Lockwood, special prose
cutor, who has worked up the case
against the accused man, was attached
by Attorney Lewis Gabbert of the de
fense. "Mr. Lockwood has resented the on
ward stride of this ambitious and
splendid young man," the defender
said, "and it has ever rankled in his
heart."
Gabbert dramatically related the de
fense's version of the Incident the
IRKED OVER BY
M'QIELS ITTf
Gompers Don i t Like Lawyers
(Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
BALTIMORE, Nov. 24. The. American Federation of Labor today de
feated a resolution providing establishment of a legal department to serve
as a central bureau for all legal matters affecting the interests of labor.
"When we have educated the lawyers to labor's way of thinking out
the applicability of the law. thty may be of some help to us," said Presi
dent Gompers.
"Their idea now is to look back upon precedents, and orsanized
labor's fight must be against them and . their precedents and old
concepts."
The wages of postoffice clerks, railway mall clerks, and city letter
carriers that were fixed (n 1907, w?rc declared in an adopted resolution
to tie Inadequate, indorsement wai Kiven the attempts of postal workers
affiliated with the federation, to s;cure from congress a higher wage
scale and the minimizing of night work. Another adopted resolution en
dorsed the efforts of affiliated civil service bodies to secure "a satisfac
tory retirement law for superannuated clerks."
gula's division, which has been ad
vancing toward Chihuahua City from
the south, remains as much of a mys
tery tonight as it was yesterday when
General Murguia was expected to re
inforce General Tievino. '
A theory advanced by military offi
cers here is that bandit scouts informed
Villi, of the approach of the Murguia
column und he abandoned the attack
oh the .city, and sought safety in flight
to the Sierras.
The Carrarrza, forces under feneral
Trevino remain in cuiitrof of the city
after two days of hard fighting, and
General Trevino .and his staff claim the
complete rout of the bandit forces. At
4 o'clock this afternoon the cavalry
columns were still pursuing Villa and
his men.
As far atit is definitely known, Gen
eral Trevlnu's losses have been com
paratively jonall, due in a large measure
to the, artillery fire which kept the
bandits out of rifle range. One general
and two colonels of the de facto forces
have been killed during the fighting.
Governor Francisco Trevino was
wounded in the head.
General Julio AcAsta, one of Villa's
chiefs, was killed during a cavalry
charge on the first day's fighting, on
Wednesday, and Villa's private secre
tary, Andres- Sada, was also killed.
Villa's losses are believed here to have
at from too to SOU dead and as many
more wounded.
Villa's Loss Heavy
CHIHl'AHl'A CJTV. Mex.. Nov. 24.
("ia El 1'aso Junction.) Another
attack by the Villa bandits from the
east was begun ati o'clock today and
was repulsed, as were the other attacks
me imnuus, wun neavy losses to tne
attacking forces.
The mnchine guns again did deadly
execution in the ranks of the bandits
who creot up from the , cast nude:
cover of a de?p army a, or dry wash.
Those rapid firers cut down the ad
vancing thin Ur?ps of bandits like a
mower in i field of Handing grain.
The dead and woind-d were left on
the Rattle field, as was done in the
previous assaults.
The enemy finally broke and ran In
disoider. the heavy artillery taking
up toe thread o" the fighting when
the ma'.l'.ine guns v.eie iUlrangeiT.
General f.ijsura. commander of General
clpleted routed the
forces which had attempted to gain an
entrance to the city li way of the
nrroyo and slaughter " house. The
af :lre ww' l)fli,.v,t,- t
....
Mia forces fled toward the northwest
out of
torch with the remaining Villa com-
mund.
,l,!Tml; ,n.. Uv ,1V f f1Khtlg
The iyiv of nt-ral Julio Acosta. vnr
Acosta, one
, Mia s commanders, v.a
found to
the we-t of the el'v as was the body
(of Ar.d-c Sada. Villa's secretary.
i ijerierai Acosta was killed in action
''V i'olcnel CuiiTl of thi. 'Mrr:M7-t
cavarlv column, Uurlrg tiie cavalry
engagement wstor.lay. ,
lcue,,-, Tu vlnos wound, received
(Continued on Tape Two!
ILL OBSTACLES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY. Nov. 24. "All pre
liminary ob-itacles to a decision by
the supreme court of the I'nited
States' on the Adanon 4avv were
wiped out today. The only possible
hitch in the preccdirxs now lies in
the question whether the highest
court will advnnce Jbe case and can
render a decision by January 1, when
thf- li:w Is scheduled to go Into effect.
The cause of the Atichisun. Tnjieka
and Santa Fe and of other railroad
which applied lo Judge Pullock In the
Vnlud Suites district court at Kansas
City. Kansas, were hy agreement post
poned unt'l alter decision by the su
preme court and announcement iwas
made bv Frank llagerman. special
assistant to the attorney general in
Adamson, !-!tv casea. and Walker I.
Mines chairman of the committee ot
railmad counsel that similar postpone
ment would be requested In all court
of the country where injunction suits
have been flletl.
The case wrtfch goes to the tipper
tribunal Is that of the Missouri,
Oklahoma and clulf, heard hurriedly
here Wednesday by Judgo Hook, who
held that the Ijw sva unconstitu
tional The appeal was immediately
taken. "
night Mrs. McDanlel wus murdered.
,'ind concluded;
"They found him In his home bath
itiK his wife's blood, away. Before she
died, this man, charged here with hav
ing murdered her, who was in a state
of collapse- ajid who collapsed, as
state's witnesses have testified, bent
over and put a kiss upon "her Hps the
last he ever was to give her.",
SR; APPEAL
AD1S0N CASE
TEUTDNSMENACE JOINT COBSSI
IIUWI fRl
ALL DIRECTIONS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Forces of the central powers are
driving on Bucharest from three direc
tions. To the west the troops of Gen
eral von Falkenhayn have reached the
Alt river; to the north the Germans
and Austro-Hungarlans are pressing
southward, and somewhere along the
Danube the forces of Field Marshal
von Muckensen are crossing the river.
Western Wallachla apparently is in
the hands of the Teutonic allies. Some
Huninniuns remain in tlie'rear around I
i irsova, ,but that town, as well as!
Turno-Severin, has been occupied by j
the Teutonic troops.
Violent fighting was renewed in Doh
rudja. Buchurest says that an attempt I
by the Germans to cross the Danube i
at Zimnitza, seventy miles southwest of
Bucharest, failed. Fighting has been j
reported In the region of Sllistria and j
it may lie that- the German crossings'
of the river were made between the
Chernavoda and Giurgevo.
The Russians and Rumanians have
taken the-offensive in ltaihrudja north
of the Tchernavoda-Coristanza railway, 1
Bucharest and Petrograd assert, iilie '
Rumanians advanced on the whole '
front and occupU-d fiv towns fifteen
miles north of the railway line. The
Russians progressed to twelve miles j
north of the railway. Berlin declares
the Russian offensive in Dobnidja was
thrown back. '
Serbian troops have occupied Papesh,
east of Monastir. North of Sohudol
the Serbians put a German force to
flight.
There haa been no important infan
try activity in France. Artillery bom
bardments by both sides nortK and
south of the Somme have Increased.
In the eajitem and Austro-Italian
theaters there has been little activity.
In Armenia. Constantinople says the
Turkish "troops have advanced their
right wing twenty miles against the
Russians.
Republlcan A. P. Leased Wire
OAKLAND Ca!., Nov. 24. The body
of Jack 1-ndon, the author, who died
sudden! Wednesday tiighc. was ere.
mntc d nere today auu tne ashes, in
mvordiiiM-e with, his wishM. will be
wattcifH1 over his (ilen Kh-n ranch. I
wnlch he mad I'.nww r. to his reader::
as. The Valley of the Moon.
Mrs. fhurminn Imdon, the author's
wife. ai tin,' lie through illnesX to
attend the funeral services, but his
fir t wile .Mis. Ilessle Mailderr Lon
don and the ir two daughters. Joan and
Pes.' were present, as was his aged
mother. Mi-:. 1"Pt-i lyutdoii.
The services v.-ti- strictly tuxulur In
comi'Minie with London's esprwsed
wuslti-s.
liefore the body was confirm! to tli
flames. N. Nakulo. for many, years
London's loilv "ervant. laid on the
casket a slip ot paper, on .clych he
b.-id perciled:
"Your voids were silver.- Vout
silence now Is golden."
SIR HIRAM MAXIM DIES
P'piiblkan A. P. Leated Wire
LONi IN. Nov. 24 Sir Hiram Max
im, Inventor of the automatic system of
firearms, died ut his home here early
this morning.
Sir Hiram Maxim was born in San
gerville. Maine, in 1S40.-. His Inven
tions included the Maxim autoinntlc
g in. a heavier than air flying machine,
smokeless powder, an electric locomo
tive headlight and other appliances.
He was a chevalier of the legion of
honor, and a baronet, a rank he re
ceived from Queen Victoria after as
suming F.nglisli citizenship.-
MEXICAN OFFICIAL STATEMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MF.XICO CITY. Nov. 24. Minister
of War Obregon unnounced tonight
that the fight Thursday south of Chi
huahua between "constitutionalist forces
and Francisco Villa's men resulted in a
victory for the constitutionalists. The
Villa forces were driven off with a loss
of fifty men killed and many wounded.
The minister said Villa floi westward.
IT WAS A TURK SUB
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Nov. 24. A dispatch to
the Exchange Telegraph from Amster
dam says:
"According to an official P.erlin tel
egram the German admiralty denies
that a tierman submarine sank the
lirltlsh hospital ship Britannia.
"The vessel is believed to have been
sunk by One of the Turkish submarines
recently sold by Germany to the Turk
ish admiralty."
Jordan Satisfied
California Vote
Goes for Wilson
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
SACIJICMKNTO. Cal.. Nov. 24 Pos
sibility tint certification of tile vote
for presidential electors In Pal. mlgh:.
e delayed disappeared today vhen
Secretary- of Stale Frank C. Jordan
received further data from Orange
county, where semi-official figures
from one precinct had been declared
unsatisfactory, fn case of Yuba coun
ty, where the electoral vole tor one
presidential elrclcr In one precinct was
mlaslng, investln.itton convinced mem.
hers of the democratic state central
committee that no action need be
taken iw there waH no official proof
that votes had been cast for the
candidate. Inasmuch as the final re
liit in the slate wua in no way af
fected bv the omission,- It was decided
jiot to demand a reoiiening of
ballot boxes. '
JACK LONDON'S'
BODY CREMATED!
the
PROTOCOL,
CARRANZA FOR SETTLEMENT
n : n
i PRESIDENT CHANGES PLANS j
j WASHINGTON, Nov. 24. Pres
I ident Wilson tonight cancelled his
I plans for going to New York to
' morrow to attend tho Army-Navy j
I football game because of -a cold '
I from which he has been suffering '
j for several days. His condition is J
i not considered serious. The presi- '
i Lent saw no callers today and re- I
mained indoors. He met with J
I members of his cabinet in his
I study, however, and was said to be i
I k..n. --.L.4
STATE'S RIGHTS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. 24. A haw
turn lo the argument that states'
rights would I invaded if the federal
government had sole power to regu
late and' control interstate carmvs
was given today before the Joint con
gressional committee Investigating 1
transportation problems, bv A. i.
1 num. counsel for the railway exec,
utives' advisorv corrtmittee.
Mr. Thorn declared that the vesting
of such exclusive power in the hands 1
r
iniEu.s.1
'CONTROLS ROADS
i
of :i federal regulating body would A statement, drafted by a special
protect the rights of states, lie based commission under instructions lroai
His conclusion on many instances in"'e Rrango said in part:
which the elfect of actions by sti'.e , "'n many countries with cheap la
railHay conimN'ions has been to in-l''or high pi iced lands the -yield
lerfen- with commerce in neighboring I Per acre exceeds that of the United
states. Kmpha-sis was Hi Id upon the I Slates. The . American farmer with
situation which has followed tho I cheap lands, and high priced labor.
recent interstate commerce commis-1 1 rodui es many times as much per lermined when the conference was fin
i.iui older for a re-alignment of rates 'man as dots the farmer of any i-oun- ished. The question was left to Sec
throughout the southeast under ihe j ,rv ln t' woi Id. retary ofState Lansing and Ambassa-
'ng end short haul clause of the I "The high price of farm products is dor-designate Arredondo. Following is
railroad Tate law. The effectiveness due to several causes. The climatic paraphrase of the agreentt nt. to
of these orders lias been suspended. ' conditions of this c ountry during the which the last signature was affixed at
.Mr Thorn sr.id. while the Georgia last year were perhaps one oi tiie : 49 o'clock thU atternoon:
state railroad commission ha for six leading cause of crop rhortage. For' "First The American troops now in
months examined them, and the ben-;
. fits ihe commission expected to ex-I
tend to that entire section of the
country has bee n held In : bevance. ;
He spoke also of the Shr report, La.,
rate case ns one of the most cc!c-i
I brated of those to be decided by the
interstate commerce commission in
volvintr a clash hi-teeen the federal
c-ommi-s;i'n ami the Texas state, com-.
mission ov r ititcr.itate and
1
constitution rave the rinht to r gul He
commerce among the states lo con
gress becao'-e the history of the colo
1 ies s! owed that unwise, unfair ami
even danirerous measures res-ult"d
fn-m attempts to encourage the com
r erre of indivhUial colonies at the
exoense of neighbors.
S caking i f the difficulties of finan.
ling the railroads, Mr. Thorn dwelt
upon how difficult it mnv be for a
larrle.- tc. get monev even v hen Wie
mark' ts are fc.vorable If it Is peee.c
sary to have security issues passed
unon by one or more state commis
sions. NARROW ESCAPE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COIA'MP.l'S. Nov. 25. More than
one hundred railroad men narrowly es
caped death early this morning, when
fire broke out in the railway Y. M. P.
A. building. Kapid spread of the
flames through Ihe building cut off the
means of exit from the upper floors
where the men were sleeping.
RIVAL III A FIGHT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Hl'NTSV II.I.K. Ala.. Nov. 24. Pro
bate Judge William T. I-rwlcr, whose
boi'v was found in the Tennessee
river last June, was Uilled by laid
P. Overton, his political rival. Over
tin testified here today in his trial on
a chiirn-c of murder" that he shot the
lodge self defense.
Tiie killing. Overton swore.' was the
ioislt "f a fight precipitated by Lnvv
ler. who he s:wd attacked him with a
knife when he refused to Join a plan
to delav a report of the Madison
.o-.'iuy grand jury.
Overton declared he drove Lawler
'o the Yc'hitesburs: bridge in his buggy
it Lawicr's suggestion to discuss their
political difficulties. The judge at
tacked him with a knife, he declared.
when be i-'Ti'sca to tiikc lmmeniate
-i
steps to deiav any action by the grand
lurv. After a desperate fight, he
:.-:ild; he killed his antagonist but hail
t"thing to do with tho disposition of
the body, found three days later
weighted down In the river.
lie informed Sh-riff Hubert Phillips
of the tracedv the night it Qc.oured.
Overton ssld, and when he saw Phil
lips the next day the sheriff told him
'he "botlv had . not been brought to
town and that no one could find It."
Sheriff Phillips committed suicide
the next wee'.c, leaving word he could
not near lh" suspicion he believed
was directed against him. Three days
earlier, Shelbv Pleasants, a Hunrsville
attorney, committed suicide.
Or. (J. V. Williams of Chattanooga,
who treated Overton's wounds in that
ity last June, was the last witness
for the defense which rested its case
late today. He described what he
said was a serious cut on Overton's
neck, near the jugular vein, it In
POLITICIAr. ADMITS
KILLING
POLITICAL
expected the case will go to the Jury
by noon tomorrow.
ONERS
NOW UP
MEXICANS HATED
Nat'l Grange Says
Farmers Not Cause
High Cost Living
Republican A.
WASHINGTON.
P. Leased Wire
Nov. 24. In de-
fcn,e of tho farm th, National Grange
in annual session nere, issued a slafv
ment tonight analyzing the high cost
f lhiii',' anil attributing the ri-smi?
I rices oi lurrn products lo poor crops'
ot furrn
and tiie increasing cost of wnat tiie
farmer ha to U'iy.
If any embargoes are to be placed
to help the situatioi. the' statement
fa's, tney
h..uld be on manufactured
products.
particularly m tuitions ot
war. Prohibition of gambling in food
Muffs and provisions yf more stora
houses under control
f the
farmc rs
themselves also are suggested
example, i.ie wneat in cue normwesc
"as a crop laiiure; tne corn crop was
in many sections a partial lauure, as
weii as trie poiato and
crops.
vegetable!
"it must lie borne in mind that tho
high prices have struck the' farmer
iu whatever ho buys, as much as H
has the city consumer. Farm labor is
scarcer ana higher than ever. F.very-
AIRICANS PERSUADED THE! IT
WAS PROPER MOVE; PAHI LEAVES
inlrastate1 thing the farmer buys, whether ma
i "finery, fertilizer, fencing, clothing, or
in price by leaps anil bounds. This is
also true of taxation, the Increase
being in many sections fitty ter cent
or more, di ring the last five years.
"The fact that nearly one half of
the civilized world has left the field of
production and ehtered upon the woii;
of destruction has increased the dc
. We believe that ' .XT wil,
high or several years, especiilly for'
C t 1 1 K t tlm i
I'litllliliix V 1 1 I t. x I Kwwim. iw in- -sv-
ihK'ts .f th- urm, the fixing of pri.-
is mainly by the Inw of viMy mtvI
ileum nd n thn market of the world.
l elieve that in some instances
pr'diU't ion has been restricted by
ti-ns'tu .in.i tiiiini-itii l iiu Tli iu iu nar-
ticulail'v truV of the meat situatioi.
. 1
n m:m.. i.r trie viuaties towns ana
cities in many sections are not per
mitted to kill their own meats because
of the unfair competition from the
packing interests. We further believe
that while the crops have been shon
vet there s tilentv lor 3 1 in tblS
country n,nd some to sell. Hut at the:
same time economy should be pr:i -
ticed along n'l line's. The high price
of potatoes and vegetables this year
'oes not mean the same price will
prevail next year. Ky taking a len!
vear average' the produc er is not ;
getting a living; price and under pres-'
out conditions we are getting only
a fair price. At present prices of
some articles, uch as milk, taking In- J
(Continued on Page Two)
E
FALLS A VICTIM TO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKYV YORK. Nov. 24. liehind the
f,0,(ui0 Ilarriman jewel robery, brought
to solution today by police investi
gators, lies a story of a middle aged
and trusted employe who succumbed
to tpnimnt nil accord nsr to his con-
fusion' uliilc'-struir-dincr to meet the
cost of' .iving in a fashionable suburb,
too expensive for nls means. As a
I too ex
result be is under arrest charged with
grand larceny together v-ilh his
brothor, who is held on a similar
chargct, accused of having disposed of
part of the proceeds of the robbery.
Arthur P. Paggett, 42 years old. and
married, who was guardian of the
trust companv vault where Mrs. K. H.
Ilarrim-.n. widow of the rallroati-
Ue'pt her jewelry, found them
ipist.
one ilav on tne tloor ot mesaie de
posit, ho told the Police inspector
Fanrot, Joday.
"Tiie opportunity presented itself as
I was in debt to the extent of $70(1,"
the inspector quoted Daggett as say
ing, "lh salary was not a large one.
I was getting only f 1,700 a year and
I found it hard to live on that amount
and keep up with the living at ltrch
mont. 1 wa tempted many times to
put the jewelry buck but I held it for
some time waiting to see who owned
it and when no one put In a claim
that it was lost, 1 decided to get u
loan on some of it."
TRUSTED
fLOiE
HIGH LIVING
COT
SIGN
TO
TO DO IT BUT
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., Nov. 24. A
protocol providing for the conditional
I withdrawal of the American troops
j now in Chihuahua, Mexico, and for the
I military control of the border, but tliu
' supplemental stipulation that I'nited
States troops shall be sent into Mexic i
i in' pursuit of bandits at any time the
j American government deems it neces
sary, was signed here today by tiie
members of the Mexican-American
I Joint commission.
i ""pan, T'the MeS
i commission, who left here tonight for
New York whence he will start .Mon
day for Mexico to submit it to General
Venustiano Carranza for his approvaL
The other copy will be delivered to the
American government by Secretary of
the' Interior Franklin K. Lane, chair
man of the American commission, who
left here late today for Washington.
If the protocol is ratified by the two
governments, the commi.scion will re
convene December 8 to resume tne dis-
cussion if other questions affecting the
two countries especially those related
to the protection of the jife and proper
ty of Anrf-ricans and other foreigners
in Mexico. If ratification by either
governments, the commission will re
t lie conference will be declared at an
end.
Where the adjourned .sessions df the
commission will be held was not rte-
i c'nihuahua shall be withdrawn within
,40 days, from the approval of the
pro-
tocol bv the respective
eoverntnenrs
provided) that within that time the con
ditions in that part of Mexico have not
become such as to endanger the Amer
ican border. In such event the time
'shall be extended.
1 "Secdnd The American army shall
patrol the American side of the border
and the Mexican army the Mexican
side, but this sliail not nreciude co
operation between the two forces to
preserve peace upon the border.
. "Third It shall be left to the com-
mantling officers of the nrmies on the
1 border of lioth nations to enter into
such arrangements for cooperation in
operations against bandits whenever it
' I is possible."
The right of the American govern-
. -der
I IstIvU 111
bandits was not mcor-
1 1 -"rated in the protocol. 1 ut was made
ithe subject of a supplemental memor
anihim. The Mexi .tin had contended
earnestly against signing any agree
. ment In which they appeared to sanc
tion what they termed the violation of
J their national territory. It was the
.agreement of the Americans finally to
rniitf.nl tnemel-e w-lth i.iiihit i Iia i t
V- : o
titujle or the I nited States in a sep
1 urate memorandum that induced the
1 Mexicans to sign the agreement. .
It became known today that the first
i request of the Mexicans for a recess
wan inane seceiai Clays ago. J lie)
sired to submit to General Carranza
all the facts in the case and to obtain
from him advice as to the course they
should take. The Americans opposed
such action, contending that further
delay was inadvisable. Yesterday the
insistence of the Mexicans resulted in
a consideration of the suggestion and
today the discussion was resumed with
all members of the commission resent,
The Mexicans were not .yet willing to
(Continued on Page Two)
FOOD TEST GOES OH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Nov. 24. The twelve
members of Health Commissioner
Robertson's "diet stptnd" who are en
imared in a two weeks' test to riemon-
sciaie uiai Boou unci ii'-aiuuui loo.t
I 'an be served for forty cents a day.
j despite high prices, were reported to
be in excellent condition late today
he third of the test The combined
gain in weight announced by those in
charge was eleven pounds.
Table talk at the three meals served
today, was confined for the most part
to the bull ;jiven tonight by the health
department at a loop hotel. F-ach of
the .six men and women rlf the "diet
si mad" carried out their intention to
j "look hi on the dance." but none of
them partook of the supper that was
served.
.The menu for tomorrow will be:
Breakfast
Stewetl (.runes; rolled oats; butter
ed toast; postum or coffee.
Luncheon
Jjtmb friensse with dumplings; Wal
dorf salads; bread and butter; tea.
Dinner
Split pea soup: roast' veal; boiled
rice; cold slaw; bread pudding; tea.
"When the first test is over the
grocery and meat bills for the food
purchased will be open to the public,"
Dr. John I. Kobertsop said.
SNOR
i
DIETING 001 Iff
GOOD CONDITIOAI AS
