l Today's Metal Prices J'lT ffl .T' -i-. . A . . : . 4PM CITY EDITION I
I vo l IT I fnlltl 5vTHTi 1 1 ri I fl twenty-eight pages I
! New York, Nov. 25,-Sllver, 73 Me; " T JmLE J ILl JV W 1 W f? "V -4,
lead 07.30; spelter, $12,625 t 'V Li T W V vy
j 12.375; copper, $31.00 to $33.00. C V L Sunday Increasing Cloudiness; Warm-
I 'j ' - er Tonight.
I j . FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. H
I ' OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 25, 1916. Entered a, Sccond-da.. Matter ,t th e Postofflce, OQden, UUhT
I Villa Opens Third Day of Chihuahua I
I I Battle at Daybreak - Furious Fight on I
I Rumanians Being Squeezed
II Between Jaws of Powerful
I German Military Machines
16
Resistance Broken Down by Von Mackensen and
j Yon Falkenhayns Steady, Unrelenting Pres-
l sure-Rumanian Forces in Retreat.
i
:i
v The process of. squeezing Rumania
j between th'e jaws of the Teutonic mil-
i itary machine is proceeding with not-
; able rapidity. Pushing eastward after
J their capture of Craiova and the con-
.' quest of Little Wallachia, General von
'i Falkenhayn's troops have broken Hu-
) manlan resistance in the valley of the
'; lower Alt and apparently already
have turned this supposedly strong
line of defense across western Ru
mania, to which the Rumanians had
i retreated. A crossing of the Alt' in
1 this region is reported by Berlin.
Concurrently, Field Marshal von
Mackensen, "operating the other jaw
i of the nut cracker haa forced a pass-
age of the Qanube near Zimltza, giv-
ing him a footing o nRumanian soil
25 miles in the rear of the Danube
I end of the Alt line, which touches the
river near Turnu Magurele. The
j landing at Zlmnitza also placed von
Mackensen but 70 miles from Buchar-
j est to the northeast.
' Germans Make Further Inroads.
On the northren end of the Alt line
j where the Teutonic armies have been
pressing down from Rothenthurm
j pass, further inroads on the Rumanian
i defenses have been effected, nccord-
3 ing to Berlin, which records the cap-
ture of several villages.
3 The Petrograd statement admits a
ft Rumanian retreat here. On the fro.n-
f tier of Moldavia the Germans report
the repulse of a Russo-Rumanian of-
' fensive movement in the Gyergyo
(i mountains.
i; The Rumanian forces which were
."j operating in the Orsova region evi-
dently have retreated into the moun-
I tains northeast of Turnu Severin, as
' Berlin reports Rumanian battalion
i there "cut off from the main army."
i They are still making stubborn re-
i sistance, the German statement says,
1 but apparently they have no recourse
but ultimate surrender to escape ex-
l tinction.
The entente advance in Macedonia
i shows signs of halting. Paris reports
further progress for the Italians west
ij of Monastir but announces that gen-
; , erally the operations have been slow-
ed up by fog and rain.
i The official statements from Lon-
. oun, I'ans ana .uenin agruu iu repun
I :; ing quiet on the Franco-Belgian front
H i
H i Russo-Rumanlans Repulsed.
m i Berlin, Nov. 25. (By wireless to Say-
L- ville.) Attacks of the Russo-Ruma-W
i' nIan forces in the Gyergyo mountains
'9 ;i on the Moldavian front were repulsed
m .;i yesterday by the Teutonic forces with
fl :! heavy losses to the attackers, the war
v '. office announces.
Several towns in Rumania, south
of the Alt pass, have been captured
fl i by the Ausiro-German invaders. The
-fl I resistance of the Rumanians in the
H lowlands of the lower Alt has been
tfl broken. Austro-German troops have
fl crossed the river Alt.
fl 5 Forces of Field Marshal von Mack-
fl i ensen have crossed the Danube and
fl ) again a footing on Rumanian soil.
fl ( Violent Fighting on Serb Front,
fl '. London, Nov. 25, IS: 55 a. m. VIo-
fl i lent fighting occurred on the whole
fl i Serbian front yesterday, according to
fl t a Serbian official statement. The
fl i statement says there was no impor-
fl i tant change in the situation.
'fl '
(' Allied Attacks Repulsed.
lfll Sofia, Nov. 25, via London, 10:60
fl ? a. m. The repulse of repeated allied
attacks on the Macedonian front is
,fl ;j reported In an official statement is-
ifl sued today. The text follows:
fl "0n Friday between Lakes Orchrlda
'fl : and Presba we repulsed strong enemy
,9 detachments. Between Lake Prsba
.fl and the Cerna there were lively ar-
ffl i tlllery duels. East of tho Cerna bond
'fl r' we repulsed threo night attacks, the
9 enemy suffering bloody losses. There
ifl l is nothing of importance to report on
ifl the other fronts."
S Sofia, Nov. 25, via London, 10:40
fl ; a. m. Bulgarian troops have occupied
fl v islands in tho Danube southeast of
fl ? Craiova, tho war office announced to-
fl -. day.
fl The statement follows:
tfl "In tho Dobrudja enemy detach-
fl i! ments In superior numbers approach-
ifli- ed our positions but were repulsed
19 ri by our artillery fire. Along the Dan-
lm l ube near Sillstria, Turtulcal and Rust-
'9 f chuk there was artillery fighting.
9 ' Near Grehovo Lomand and Vadin de-
fl 1 tachraents of our troops occupied isl-
ands in the Danube."
9? Norwegian Crew Landed.
BLr London. Nov. 25, 11:35 a. m.
91 Lloyd's Shipping genoy announces
I Ithat the Greek steawer ThetiB has
handed tho crew of the Norwegian,
steamer Dansted, sunk by a German
submarine.
No Norwegian steamer Dansted is
listed in available records. There is
a Danish steamer of that name of 1.
492 tons gross, last reported as having
arrived at Ayr, Scotland, on Novem
ber 3 from Bilbac.
Bucharest, Nov. 25, via London, 3
p. m. The war office announces that
the advance of German troops which
crossed the Danube river has been
arrested.
London, Nov. 25, 11:50 a. in. "From
tho front in France there is nothing
to report," says the official statement
issued by tho war office today. "It
is raining heavily."
Germans Cross the Danube.
Petrograd, Nov. 25, via London, 1:47
p. m. The war office announces that
the Germans have made a crossing of
the Danube near Zlminitza, 70 miles
southwest of Bucharest.
The statement says the Rumanians
have been pushed back toward the
south of, Tzalimanechu, on the Tiver
Alt south of Rothenthurm pass and
of Maldarachti, twenty miles rest of
the Alt.
Greeke Will Resist.
London, Nov. 25, 11:55 a. m. Rou
ter's Athens correspondent says it is
stated in circles close to the Greek
court that any attempt of the en
tente allies to obtain possession of
Greek arms and ammunition as de
manded by Vice Admiral du Fournet,
commander of the allied squadron,
will meet with resistance.
Swedes Order Investigation.
London, Nov. 25, 9:25 a. m. The
Swedish government has ordered its
charge d'affairs at Berlin to investi
gate the sinking of the steamer Ar
thur, according to a Stockholm dis
patch to Reuter's. The crew of the
Arthur waB landed at Gothenburg,
Sweden, yesterday by a trawler. The
steamer measured 1350 tons.
no
GERMANS TAKE
SEVERALTOWNS
Berlin, Nov. 25. The German offi
cial war statement reads:
"Front of Archduke Joseph: In the
Gyergo mountains a hostile attack on
Batcane Jagra was sanguinarily re
pulsed. "South of the Alt pass through the
Transylvania Alps several towns were
captured by German and Austro-Hun-garlan
troops despite the tenacious
resistance of the Rumanians. Three
officers and eight hundred soldiers
were made prisoners.
"Tho enemy's resistance in the law
lands of tho lower Alt was broken.
"We have crossed the river there.
"On the western frontior of Ru
mania in the wooded mountains north
east of Turnu Soverln, Rumanian bat
talions cut off from the main army,
are still offering tenacious resistance.
"Front of Field Marshal von Mack
ensen: (Dobrudja) There has been
reciprocal artillery firing.
"The forces of the allied central
powers after crossing the Danube from
the south gained a footing on Ruman
ian soil. Near Racovltza civilian na
tives again participated In tho fight
ing against our troops."
oo
Tho German state railroads for the
second year of the war report freight
receipts of $5G1,250,000 compared with
$465,750,000, In tho first year of hos
tilities, and $556,500,000 in the last
year of peace. Passenger receipts de.
creased 32 per cent. In tho first year
of the war, and 21 per cent, in the
Becond year of the war.
nn
Dr. J. M. Hirsch, dye expert, as
serts that the coagulated blood of cat
tle provides all the material necessary
to tho manufacture of artificial dye
stuffs that are now obtainable from
coal tar, and that ho had produced
every known color from coal tar, and
that he has produced every known
color from stockyard products. He
says dyes can bo made as low as 8
cents a pound. "
VILLA RESUMES
CHIHUAHUA FIGHT
Starts Third Day's Battle at
Early Hour in Effort to
Take City.
. .
DESPERATE STRUGGLE
General Murguia's Cavalry
Advancing Carranza Of
ficers Hoping to Cap
ture Villa.
Juarez, Mexico, Nov. 25. The Villa
bandits again were repulsed today by
the Carranza forces defending Chihua
hua City, according to a message re
ceived at military headquarters here,
the message said the bandits were
driven clear of the suburbs after des
perate efforts to take the city by
storm.
Juarez, Mexico, Nov. 25 Francisco
Villa and his bandit forces resumed
the attack on Chihuahua City. Mex
ico, at daybreak today, according to
Carranza officials, mancing the open
ing of the third days' fighting in Vil
la's effort to wrest the Chihuahua
capital from General Jacinto B. Trc
vlno's constitutionalist forces. Com
munication with Chihuahua City was
still unimpaired, indioating the attack
was directed from the southeast and
southwest of the city.
Murguia Cavalry Advancing.
General Murguia's cavalry is( ad
vancing overland from tfie vicinity of
Santa Rosalia in an effort to relieve
General Trevino's tired troops, accord
ing to General Gonzales, commanding
the Garranza garrison hero. General
Murguia ordered the cavalry to pro
ceed by the shortest trail, leaving the
main column at the railroad, accord
ing to a wireless message received by
General Trovino at Chihuahua and
transmitted here by telegraph.
Carranza officers here are elated at
the prospect of Murguia's men reach
ing tho scene of the battle before Vil
la and his chiefs will be captured in
the general drive.
Battle In Progress.
The battle, which opened at 4
o'clock this morning, still Is in prog
ress, but communication with tho bor
der continues uninterrupted. General
Trevino, after sending a message tell
ing of tie resumption of the fighting
took the field in person.
No details of the attack had been
received at military headquarters here
up to 10 o'clock today.
Trevino Reports Fight.
El Paso, Texas, Nor. 25. Soriano
Bravo, Mexican consul, today received
a message from General Jacinto B.
Trevino, commanding at Chihuahua
City, saying Villa renewed his attack
at four o'clock this morning and giv
ing the names of the following de
facto government officers included in
the casualty list:
Killed: Lieutenant-Colonel Ulyses
Mler, General M. Gandara, Second
Captain Rudulpho Cabello and Lieu
tenant Elphidio Garza, the latter two
officers of General Trevino's staff.
Colonel Borquez was wounded.
oo
ALL RAILROADS
TO RETURN CARS
Action Taken to Relieve Car
Shortage and Facilitate
Shipments of Perishable
Goods.
"Washington, Nov. 24. Continuing
its efforts to reduce the car shortage
the railway conference committee on
car efficiency today ordered all rail- ,
roads to return to their homo lines all
fruit refrigerator cars. That action
was taken in the interest of those
sections where largo shipments of
perishable freight originate
Tho rallroadB were ordered to re- ;
port to the committee by telegraph
the number of its own freight cars on :
its linos, number of cars on other i
roads It was using and percentage of i
shippers' orders for cars which have
been filled.
nn
ROAD CONTROVERSY District i
Forester Leon F. Kneipp returned last
night from Salt Lake City, where he
again discussed the proposed federal .
aid roads with the state officials.
MOUNTAIN IN THEIR WAY; ITALIANS BLOW IT TO PIECES
55" Monte Novegno and Priafora. Dotted line shows dimensions of mountain before top was blown off.
' The Italians in their operations against the Austrians found a mountain very much in their way. So they
nsed dynamite and blew the entire top off. The decapitated mountain is shown in this official Italian photo
graph, which has just reached this country.
FEDERATION OF
EIGHT-HOUR DAY
AH' Workers Strongly Urged
to Unswervingly Support
Movement for Shorter
Working Day.
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 25. All work
ers, organized and unorganized, were
strongly urged to concentrate their
efforts to secure an eight-hour work
day at the earliest possible time, in
a committee report adopted by the
American Federation of Labor con
vention today. Tho report pledged
the unswerving support of the Ameri
can labor movement to the eighwiour
principal." It recommended that a
special committee be appointed to con
fer on tho subject with the organized
mployes of the transportation com
panies and report not later than four
weeks before the next annual conven
tion of the federation.
nn
RAWLINS FOR THE
APPELLATE BENCH
Salt Lake, Nov. 25. Joseph L. Raw.
lins, former United States senator, is
being boomed by Democratic leaders
of Utah for judge of the United States
circuit court of appeals, Eighth judi
cial district, to succeed Judge Elmer
B. Adams of St, Louis, who died sev
eral weeks ago.
The boom was started yesterday by
Senator-elect William H. King upon
ascertaining that Sonator Rawlins
would consider the appointment fav
orably. During the day Senator King
sent telegrams to President Wilson
and Attorney General T. W. Gregory
asking them to withhold the appoint
ment of Judge Adams's successor until
Utah Democrats could present the
qualifications of Senator Rawlins for
the position. He also wrote a score or
more of letters to cabinet officers
and United States senators from west
ern states asking them to Indorse
Mr. Rawlins.
Other Indorsements.
Telegrams and letters Indorsing tho
Utah candidate will bo sent to Wash
ington today by James H. Moyle, Dem
ocratic national committeeman from
Utah; Mathonihah ThomaH, Demo
cratic state chafruan; Congressman
James H. Mays and Congressman-elect
Milton H. Welling. Prominent mem
bers of the legal fraternity will take
up at once the cause of Mr. Rawlins
with members of the Utah Bar asso
ciation with a vlw to obtaining a
strong indorsement from that organ
ization. Although rather late in entering the
race and opposed by two strong candi
dates, Senator King believes that the
Utah candidate stands an excellent
chance of winning the appointment.
Mssouri has a candidate in the person
of the son of United States Senator.
William J. Stone and Colorado Is
represented In the race by Samuel N.
Wheeler of Grand Junction, who was
recently elected to the supreme bench
of Colorado. Supporters of both these
candidates have been actlvo for tho
past two or three weeks.
ESTATE TRANSACTION Return
of sale of real estate and a petition
for confirmation of salefi wero filed in
the county clerk's office today by tho
administrator of the estate of the late
Harry K. Durland,
CONSPIRACY IN
INDIAPJT DOWN
The Inhabitants " Are Now
Fighting for the Cause
of Great Britain.
(Copyright 1916 by the Associated
Pres."?.)
Simla, India, Oct. 2. (From staff
correspondent to the Associated
Press.) The great Indian province of
the Punjab, with its twenty-five mil
lion inhabitants, today is peacefully
pursuing its affairs; the sturdy men of
this vast district, the Spartans among
the many races of the peninsula, are
either bearing arms under the British
flag or are carrying on their agricul
tural work and business at home, and
there is no outward sign that they
were put to a crucial test of loyalty to
Great Britain only a few months ago
as the result of the elaborate revolu
tionary plot which had its conception
among the Indians on the Pacific coast
of America.
This anti-British conspiracy which
is said to have been the most preten
tious sinco the never to be forgotten
mutiny of 1857, failed because of lack
of support in India, and many of the
arch schemers have been punished.
At a time when this country was cir
tually denuded of troops, whioh had
been sent to the various theatres of
war, tho Punjab ship of state, with Sir
Michael O'Dwyer, tho British lieuten
ant governor, at the helm, safely
weathered a storm that might have
swept all India had tho conspirators
met with tho sympathy which they
had expected among their people. Tho
story of the plan of revolt, which has
hitherto been told only in brief offi
cial paragraphs, was related to a rep
resentative of the Associated Press
by Sir Thomas Michael O'Dwyer.
"The history of this conspiracy is
one of the most remarkable in the
annals of India, and It is a history
with a moral," began Sir Michael. "It
demonstrates that while there are po
litical, aspirations in India, a3 there
are and must be in any country which
allows freedom of thought and liberty
of action, yet tho vast majority of the
people have no sympathy with revolu
tionary ideas. Tho failure of the plot
is an answer to the many stories
which have been published abroad to
the effect that the powder train was
laid m India and needed only the ap
plication of firo to set it off.
"Tho conspiracy in a question had as
its two main centers San Francisco
and Vancouver, tho former city ulti
mately eclipsing the latter. The plot
goes back to the beginning of 1913
when one Bhagwan Singh, a notorious
Indian seditlonlst, went to Vancouver
and began to lecture among the In
dians there, most of them ignorant
men who had lost touch with their re
ligion and traditions and fell easy prey
to specious agitators and sedition
mongers, against the British govern
ment In India. Tho grievances of the
Indians, real or imaginary, in regard
to the immigration regulations had
prepared the ground. After a short
time Bhagwan Singh was deported,
but ho had sown the -seed of sedition
before he left.
In San Francisco.
"There also arrived in San l-rancis-co
about tho same time a seditlonlst
by tho name of Hardial, tho real
brains of the conspiracy which was
developed. Hardial. who, by the way,
Is now believed to bo In Germany, is
(Continued on Page 14) , j
GERMAN TORPEDO
BOATS JN RAID
Six Destroyers Attack English
Coast Fire Dozen Rounds
and Steam Away.
London, Nov. 25. 4:1Q p. m. A raid
by German torpedo boat destroyers
on the English coast which took
place on Thursday night, was an
nounced in an official statement to
day. The raid was ineffective, ac
cording to the statement which de
clares that the six German destroy
ers participating in it steamed away
quickly after firing a dozen rounds,
one shell striking a small vessel, but
causing small damage and no injury
to the members of tho crew.
oo
An extensive area in New Zealand
which was devastated by a volcano a
quarter of a century ago is being re
forested with larch trees.
oo '
Patents have been granted to a
Maryland inventor for a gasoline
cartridge forbreaking up farm soil in
the same way that dynamite is used.
' OO ;
LAUNCH CUT IN I
TWO BYSTEAMER I
Boat Crowded With Sailors
Returning From Shore Leave
One Man Decapitated.
San Francisco, Nov, 25. One man
was decapitated, one reported miss- fll
ing, and half a score suffered injuries il
today when a launch crowded with fll
sailors returning from shore leave to nl
the United States supply ship Glacier SH
was swept by the tide beneath the fH
paddies of the Southern Pacific stern
wheel river boat Apache and cut in
The accident occurred a block
south of the Ferry building, well
known to tourists. The Glacier lay at
Man O'War anchonage still further IH
south and the launch, going to and
from shore, had to cross the path of
the big Sacramento river stern wheel-
ers which arrive and depart early in IH
the day.
oo
GREAT INFLOW OF
GOLD INTO COUNTRY I
Washington, Nov. 25. Tho great in
flow of gold into the country during
the past fiscal year increased the
treasury holdings of the precious met
al to 1,S03,493,933 on June 30 last, an
increase of $420,533,943 over the pre
vlous year, according to the United
States treasurer's ar 'al report made
public today. Gold ii jorts were ?494,
099,301 and exports 90,249,548.
Monoy in circulation in tho United
States at the close of the fiscal year
aggregated ?4024,097,762, an increase
of ?454,87S,188 over the previous year.
There was a remarkable growth in
the gold coin and certificates in clrcu
lation, the increase being $388,091,123.
The government's ordinary receipts,
totaling $778,664,552, were an increase
of 87.180,107 over those of 1915;,ordi
nary disbursements, 724,492,999, were
5,610,593 less than the preceding
year and the surplus on ordinary
transactions 55,171,554.
on
WAR DECLARED I
ON BULGARIA I
provisional government of Greece
formed by supporters of former Pre
mler Venizelos has formally declared
war on Bulgaria, says an Athens dis
patch to the Exchange Telegraph com
pany today.
j Turkey Contest Great Success j I
Mrs. John Bothwell, 2966 Adams Ave., Wins the Turkey for H
Contest No. 1.
CONTEST NO. 2, TUESDAY CONTEST NO. 3, WEDNESDAY
The judges last night, after going over approximately three hun- jH
dred answers to the Turkey Contest decided that Mrs. John Bothwell,
2966 Adams Ave., Ogden, Utah, will win the turkey.
Although a great number of replies were sent in, very few could
be considered as artistic because in answering the puzzle they but jH
merely pasted the picture of Mayor Heywood together and let it go
at that.
Those deserving honorable .mention are-; jH
Miss Alice Huckins. 1 W' m-v
Virginia Bingham. $ H
Mrs. J. W. Lund. ' H
v ', . Herman Alexander. vty
:;( Mrs. M. Cashmore. H
Kenneth L. Farr. jH
' Master George Tribe. . . f -
Heber M.Lund. -'w '.
Mrs. Grover Page. jH
Mrs. E. L. Howes.
Miss Josephine Hickenlooper. JH
All of the above were artistic and original, some using fancy
borders, others making up the puzzle into calendars, etc.
Monday night will appear Contest No. 2. This contest wilj be
based upon the most original answer. Special attention will be given
to the manner in which the small pieces of paper are cut and put to- iH
gether. Also on neatness.
Answers must be in the Standard office by 12 o'clock Wednesday f
noon, so the winning contestants may be able to get their turkey tor
Thanksgiving.
Special attention must be paid to the advertisers. Each advertis- H
ing firrruname must appear on answer sent in. Also the number or the
advertisement must be placed somewhere on the answer.
1
