WE DO FINE
BOOK and JOB PRINTING
TRY US!
VOLUME lII—No. 48
EHPEROR FRANZ
JOSEF IS DEAD
Aged Ruler Succumbs to Catarrhal Illness;
Archduke Charles Heir.
LONDON, Nov. 22.—Emperor Franz Josef died last night at
9 o'clock at Schoenbrunn castle, according to a Reuter dispatch
from Vienna.
A Geneva dispatch said the sacrament was administered to
the aged Emperor Saturday.
The first intimation received here that Emperor Franz Josef's
health was again the subject of solicitation was contained in a
dispatch dated November 12, emanating from a Vienna news
agency, which reported that the emperor had been suffering for
some days with a slight catarrhal affection. Subsequent reports
from various sources, more or less conflicting, represented that his
condition was becoming worse, but none of them indicated that
his illness threatened to reach a critical stage, and from Vienna
came assurances that he was still able to give audiences to one or
more ministers daily.
What gave some credence to the suspicion that his condition
was much graver than official bulletins indicated was the report,
which still lacks official confirmation, that it had been decided to
associate the heir to the throne, Arch Duke Charles Francis, in the
government of the country and that he was to assume the posi
tion December 2, the sixty-eighth anniversary of the Emperor's
ascension to the throne.
So far as is known here, Archduke Charles is still at the front
in command of the army.
Charles Francis is aged 27 and is a son of Archduke Charles
Otto, Fanz Josef's brother.
The death of Franz Josef is a remarkable climax to the long
list of tragedies in the Hapsburg family—a list unparalleled in any
other reigning house in Europe. He died in the midst of the
world's greatest war, which he himself largely brought about by
his determination to avenge the assassination of his heir, Arch
duke Francis Ferdinand, as the result of an alleged Serbian con
spiracy, while on a visit to Bosnia, June 28, 1914.
MANY FOREIGN SPEEDERS
AT UNIONTOWN
UNIONTOWN, PA., Nov. 23.
v-It will be a polyglot bunch of
drivers who will compete for the
$4,250 in prizes and Universal
Film trophy in the inaugural
meet Thanksgiving Day of the
Uniontown Speedway associa
tion. Many nationalities are
represented, with the foreign
talent predominating. This lat
ter fact is pronounced by Direc
tor of Contests Whalen to be un
precedented in the annals of
American motordom. More na
tionalities are represented than
in any big speedway meet ever
held. All of the entrants in the
big international contest have
followers among their country
men in this locality and enthusi
asm is now running high.
Following is a list of the driv
ers, their nationality and car, in
cluding relief drivers and me
chanicians :
Hughie Hughes, English, Hos
kins Special; Ira Vail, American
J. J. R. Special; John DePalma,
Italian, J. R. Special; Arthur
Klein, German-American, Craw
ford; Barney Newgard, Danish,
Crawford; Frank Galvin, Irish,
Premier; Dave Lewis, English,
Premier; Charley Devlin, Amer
ican, Deusenberg; Jimmy Bene
dict, American, Blue Bird; Bert
Watson, Sweedish, Olsen; Milt
Mcßride, Scotch-American, Ol
sen ; George Buzane, Greek, Due
senberg; Ralph DePalma, Ital
ian, Mercedes; George Adams,
American, Adams Special; Jas.
Myers, American, Pugh Special
Louis Chevrolet, Franco-Swiss
Frontenac; Otto Henning, Ger
man, Ogren; Hugh Ogren, Swed
ish, Ogren; Jack Gable, Pennsyl
vania Dutch, Erbes Special; Wil
bur Monahan (entered in deal
ers race) Irish, Packard Grey
hound.
Frank Galvin and Dave Lewis
arrived here yesterday after
noon. Their cars are en route to
Uniontown.
THE PA TRIOT
Tuning up the racing cars for
the Thanksgiving speeders will
commence Friday.
The $3,000 Universal trophy
is expected to arrive in Union
town today from New York and
will be placed on exhibition.
The latest entries are the two
Ogren models. They will be driv
en by Hugo Ogren, designer of
the machines, and Otto Henning
of Chicago.
YOUNG MURDERER SAWS
BARS OF JAIL CELL
PUNXSUTAWNEY, Pa., Nov.
23.—Henry W. Mottern, aged 17
who was convicted of killing
William Haines of Sprankles
Mills, March 22 and was sentenc
ed to be electrocuted Jan. 22,
sawed his way to liberty from
the Jefferson county jail late to
day. Immediately after his es
cape had been discovered, poss
es were organized and a search
begun, but no trace of the fugi
tive has been found. *
With Mottern was George
Graham, aged 18, who was
awaiting sentence to the peni
tentiary for aggravated assault
and battery with intent to kill.
After leaving their cells, both
opened a skylight above the cor
ridor and crawled onto the roof.
By means of a rope made of
blankets they dropped 15 feet to
the ground.
JACK LONDON IS DEAD
IN CALIFORNIA HOME
SANTA ROSA, CAL., Nov. 23
—Uraemi was the cause of the
death of Jack London, the nov
elist, according to a statement
issued today by the physician
who attended him. He ate a
hearty dinner Tuesday night
and was found unconscious yes
terday by a Japanese servant.
Death occurred at 7:45 o'clock
last night after he had been un
conscious several hours.
Published Weekly b>- the Patriot Publishing Company
INDIANA, PA. SATURDAY, NOV 1916
v Jo ' bsl
COPYRIGHT MUTUAL FILM CORP.
Villa Defeated in Assault Upon First Line
Trench of Defenses Chihuahua City
EL PASO, TEX., Nov. 23.
Francesco Villa withdrew his
surviving forces in defeat from
Chihuahua City at 6:15 o'clock
tonight after a battle of seven
hours during which he made
fruitless attempts to carry Gen.
Trevino's protecting works by
assault, according to reports
from Juarez.
CREEKSIDE LADY PAYS BILL AFTER 11 YEARS.
"The faith of F. B. Curter & Bros., Conemaugh merchants, in
their fellow beings took a decided rise when they received the fol
lowing communication together with a check for $4.71," says the
Johnstown Democrat:
Creekside, Pa., Nov. 20, 1916.
"Gentlemen:—ln looking over old papers last August, I found the
enclosed statement, which shows there is owing you a balance of
$3.91.
Enclosed you will find a check for $4.71, being principal and
interest compounded for 11 years.
Yours very truly,
MRS. JOHN E. HART
McINTYRE MAN STOLE THE FUNDS OF POLISH SOCIETY
Stanley Saraman, of Mclntyre, is in the county jail, awaiting
action by the court, after having pleaded guilty before Justice of
the Peace, J. A. Crossman to the theft of funds belonging to a
Polish society of that place. Saraman was the buddy and room
mate of Stanley Popik, treasurer of the organization. When Po
pik went to work in the mines on Sunday he secreted the society's
tunds in his room at the lodging house. Saraman is alleged to
have taken them and then to have come to Indiana in an automo
bile. When Popik returned from work at noon he discovered the
theft and with Sam Maruco came to town to hunt Saraman. They
found him in a local restaurant and notified Sheriff Harry Boggs,
who placed the man in jail after securing $49 from him. When
taken before Justice of the Peace Crossman Monday morning,
Saraman entered a plea of guilty.
MAHONING SCHOOL HOUSE IS DESTROYED BY FIRE
The Mahoning school in East Mahoning township was de
stroyed by fire \\ ednesday. The blaze originiated through a de
tective flue. The teacher, Prof. Snyder, had built a fire in the
stove and a few minutes later discovered the building was ablaze.
AUTOS FOR RURAL CARRIERS
Instructions have been issued by the United States Postoffice
Department intended to cover the use of automobiles for rural
routes. The postoffice regulations specifically state that nothing
pertaining to horsedrawn vehicles shall be considered to be pro
hibitive of the use of motor vehicles on rural mail routes.
Gen Trevino repulsed a fourth
massed attack by Villa forces
late today, the bondits being
driven from their temporary en
trenchments with heavy losses,
it was announced tonight. The
de facto troops are now pursu
ing the bandits toward the south
the same report from Chihauhau
City stated.
CAPTURE OF ORSOVA
NOW PREDICTED
Berlin Also Claims Allied Advance North
of Monastir Has Been Checked.
BERLIN, Nov. 23.—The re
treat of the Rumanian garrison
at Orsova, estimated at an army
corps in strength, has been cut
off by the Austro-German army
of General von Falkenhayn.
Dispatches from the Ruman
ian front today indicated that
the capture of Orsova and its
Rumanian garrison would be the
next big victory announced in
that theatre of war.
While the Germans and Aus
tro-Hungarians have been cut
ting deep into the heart of Ru
j mania, the German allies have
also succeeded in halting the ad
vance of the entente forces near
Monastir in Macedonia. How
ever, the big battle which de
veloped along the new line of the
German and Bulgarian forces,
north, west and east of Monastir
continues with unabated fury.
Aid for Rumanians.
Russian reinforcements have
TENTATIVE MOVEMENT *
FOR PEACE STARTED
WASHINGTON, Nov. 22.
First unofficial moves toward
concerted peace efforts headed
by the United States are now
under way, it was learned today
on high official authority. Am
erican diplomatic representa
tives in the belligerent capitals
of Europe are "feeling out" the
temper of those countries to as
certain how such a movement
would be received. The aid of
the important neutral countries
of Europe and South America is
enlisted, it was stated.
The death of the Austrian em
peror has halted the movement
for the present. The new ruler
of the dual monarchy is under
stood, however, to look favorab
ly upon any scheme to bring
"peace with honor" to the cen
tral allies. It is stated by offi
cials here, that unless positive
guarantees are given informally
that all of the countries now at
war will look favorably upon a
peace proposal from the United
States, the proposal will be with
held until later.
The administration has also
received several reports from
Americans recently returned
from the warring nations. It is
understood that the suggestion
when made will take the form of
a mediation conference.
ALLEGED MOONSHINER IS CAUGHT AT WILMERDING
What the arresting officers claim is a moonshine camp was
raided last Tuesday night on the bank of Turtle creek, Wilmerd
ing, and George Miksk, 38 years old, taken into custody by Deputy
United States Marshall Frank C. Beatty and a squad of Federal
agents. The arrest followed an investigation to leam where
foreigners of the district secured a supply of white corn whiskey.
Miksk occupied a two-story frame dwelling and the officers say
they confiscated an old-fashioned still and two kegs, one containing
10 gallons and the other five gallons of com whiskey. Miksk was
placed under $5,000 bail for a hearing before United States Com
missioner Roger Knox next Tuesday.
WAGNER DEAD MARCH
STARTS RIOT IN ROME
ROME, Nov. 22.—An attempt
to introduce some of Wagner's
music into a concert conducted
by Toscanini resulted in an up
roar which brought the per
formance to a premature conclu
sion. The orchestra had com
CIRCULATION
BOOKS OPEN TO ALL
ADVERTISERS
just reached the Rumanian the
atre of war to help the Ruman
ian attempt to stem the Austro-
German conquest of the king
dom. News of the arrival of
these new troops was contained
in a war office statement today.
Artillery firing is reported
from Drobudja.
Clearing weather is giving
rise to more intense artillery ac
tivity on the eastern front. The
German war office in an official
announcement today says that
big guns are in action all the
way from the Baltic to the Car
pathians.
Entente troops, operating east
of Ochrida lake, have been de
feated by the Bulgar-German
forces, and put to flight, says a
war office statement today on
Macedonian operations. Strong
attacks by the allied troops east
of Paralove were repulsed.
GEE, BUT IT WILL BE COLD
IN PITTSBURGH THAT
WEEK
Mayor Joseph G. Armstrong
today received a telegram from
Thomas A. Dunn, who is attend
ing a convention of ice manu
facturers in Buffalo, N. Y., stat
ing that three ice men's organi
zations had voted to hold their
conventions in Pittsburgh in
1917. The conventions will draw
about 500 delegates from all ov
er the United States in addition
to many cold storage and ware
house men and representatives
of associated interests. The
telegram was turned over to
President Robert Garland, of
the Chamber of Commerce.
BRUMBAUGH KEEPS
OUT OF PROBE
HARRISBURG, Nov. 23.
Gov. Brumbaugh this morning
in a statement to newspaper
men concerning his attitude on
the insurance investigations be
ing conducted by State Insur
ance Commissioner J. D. O'Neil,
said: "These investigations are
purely and entirely matters of
the department. They have not
come to me nor do I expect them
to reach me. The matter will
be adjusted in the department
according to the law and the
equities in the case."
menced the funeral march from
"Gotterdammerung" when there
were loud shouts of "It is for the
victims of Padua." A storm of
imprecations against Wagner
and Germany came from all
parts of the great auditorium
and the concert had to be aban
doned.
FIVE CENTS
