PL A. JL
FAIR
VOLUME XI .V.
ST 10. G13NEVIKVE. MTSSOUliT, SATURDAY. NOVEMBER 2.1. 11)1(5.
9b
HEWS OF THEWEEK
F
WORLD
HAPPENINGS IN OUR OWN AND
OTHER COUNTRIES HERE
ARE BRIEFLY TOLD.
SHORT ITEMS FOR BUSY MEN
Condensation of Week'a News Re
viewed Without Comment All
Natlons'Fnd Something to
Edify and Instruct.
Arthur D. Glbson'B only comment
on the fact that a hard-hearted New
York highwayman took his falso teeth
along with his other valuables was,
"I hope they blto him."
Bald pates aro worth $1,000 apiece,
At least, that Is what Jacob Dacr of
Cleveland asks as damages for an ac
cldcnt which gave him a bald pate.
Beer at 6 cents a "schooner" or tho
changing of "schooners" to "skiffs" Is
threatened by tho brewers In Cincin
nati. ...
Tho Northern Pacific Hallroad Co.
announced a 5 per cent Increase In
salaries of Its employes who receive
less tlriin $200 a month.
Harold Talbott, 13 years old, was
killed and his brother Ralph of Long
Point, 111., was hurt when their auto
mobllo turned over.
Mrs. Roso Leavltt has lost 10 per
Xectly good pounds. That's why she
is suing for divorce. Sho blamc3 tho
odor of her husband's tannery in New
York.
.
Henry Tucrke, 20 months old, who
was pronounced cured in New York
following tho serum treatment for in
fantile paralysis last summer, is dy
ing in Baltimore from a second at
tack.
Peter Globls' hobby of keeping his
debts paid manifested itself on his
deathbed at Chicago. Ho caused to be
inserted in his will tho following: "I
owe Eupllus Wilkus $50. Don't forget
to pay him." '
PLAN TO PROSPECT
Macon Commercial ClubWants
to Know the County's Under
ground Resources.
TO EXAMINE EACH TOWNSHIP
Reports of Agents Will Be Tabulated
and Most Promising Will Be
Further Investigated.
Announcement of tho bethrothal of I
Miss Nancy Langhorno 1'erklns of
Greenwood, Pn to Henry Field,,
younger brother of Marshall Field III,
was mado In Richmond, Va.
Bringing a story of how her 229
passengers sang and danced whllo
tho ship raced for Fayal with fire In
her bunkers, the French liner Chicago
at rived from Bordeaux.
A man believed to bo Elmer Hick-
son of Laura, 111., was found frozen
to death in a shed at Peoria, 111.
Miss Huby Smith, 19, who was shot
by her fiance, Jesso Hamilton, on Uio
street at Springfield, VjMo., several
months ago, died of hcrjwound. Ham
ilton killed hlmBelf. M?
Mrs. Armln'ad Jlrmagian of Chi
cago mue. i tj . fino of $100 becauso
sho stratched tho bottom of tho feet
of her son, 9 years old, with needles
when ho stayed out lato at night.
It took Gunman Johnny Smith's
bullet nine years to kill Detectlvo Ser
geant Walter Thompson of New York.
Smith shot Thompson In tho back in.
1907.
Robert Hastings, suffering from am
nesia, wandered from his homo in
Cleveland. Ho found his memory and
himself fighting in France, a letter
from tho Somme said.
Biro caused damago estimated at
$150,00 and destroyed about .a million
feet of moving picture film In n
building in tho downtown district of
Chicago.
...
A number of Madros Hindus, In
detailing their plans to assist tho al
lies, stato that "Lakhs of prayers with Ported tho existence of graphite, used
flowers will bo burnt, and multitudes ln making lead pencils and lubricants.
of people will ba fed." A lakh is Near Elmer good coal prospects have
100,000. I been discovered. To the south of Ma-
con, near Cox postofflce, residents re-
Kansas cnoso 151 women onco hold- port a tunnel in which there were in
crs at the recent election. i dications of lead'and zinc. Over about
New Cambria there Is a ledge 130 feet
Alex Snyder has Just picked four below tho surface containing minerals
baskets of ripo strawberries from hlj of various sorts, some of which have
garden at Long Meadow, Mass. i been pronounced valuable. In tho same
i vicinity aro fino beds of clay which
A band of 300 Mexican bandits is tested out excellently in tho manu
said to bo en route for tho outposU facture of brick and tiling. Over a
of Pershing's column, A warm wel- big bed of thick coal near Macon is
come awaits them. . an Immense body of shale, tho sort
used in making vitrified brick.
STUDENTS WERE SHAKEN UP
Seventeen Boys From William Jewell
College Bruised In Kansas City
Elevator Accident.
Tho underground resources of Ma
con County aro to be Investigated in
a systematic manner, extending into
every township. Tho plan has been
worked out and will be under tho di
rection of tho Macon Commercial
Club.
In each township two or more
agents wilt bo selected to make local
investigations and theso agents will
report to tho club. Tho reports will
be tabulated and those which aro the
most promising Till bo Investigated
by committees from tho club, aided by
the local agents. If a prospect is found
worthy of development tho club will
cither tako up that work or Interest
outsldo investors
Tho plan was suggested by frequent
voluntary reports bciftg mado to the
club about discoveries In the various
townships. Near Callao one man re
ported that whllo sinking a well ho
had struck a largo flow of gas. An
other farmer, living somewhat to the
south, run across Indications of oil.
Up on tho Santa Fo farmers havo ro-
Tho real reason for W. J. Bryan's
visit to Now York Is to havo bis por
trait painted for tho department of
state building at Washington.
Rover's sleepy whines or growls as
ho lies curled up before tho flro mere
ly Bhow his imagination at work, R.
Waito Joslyn, scientist, asserts.
Harold and Lynn Lovelace, boys 12
and 11 years old, respectively, were
acquitted of a charge of murder for
the killing of Prof. F. T. HamiU at
Twin Falls, Idaho.
A dispatch from Padua, Italy, says
tho total number of persons killed or
wounded by a single bomb dropped by
an Austrian aviator totaled 32.
Ordered by bis landlady to take a
bath, Jacob Micheler of Chicago, 74,
shot himself through tho head rather
than comply,
Cosmo Penniz, despondent from
lack of employment, plunged under
an eight-car train on tho Long Island
railroad. Two cars passed over him,
the train stopped and Penniz emerged
unmarked.
.
Oscar Heilman of Cackle, N. 1).,
placed a stick of dynamite on his
chest when lying ln bed, touched it
off and neighbors, seeing tho roof
blown off, found Hellman's body scat
tered throughout th'e bedroom.
'
Becauso he is too short to Join tho
United States army, Vlly Pelech, a
Gallcian, who obtained his naturaliza
tion papers recently, has returned Ills
papers.
...
A London baker found a purso con
taining notes valued at $575, somo
gold and a check for $215, and upon
returning it to tho owner was given
25 cents as a reward.
While tho Melvlllo (I.a.) town mar
shal was absent from tho Jail, getting
handcuffs for James Grant, a negro, a
mob of 20 men broke In, removed the
prisoner and hanged him to a trestle,
F. O. Freeman of Timpson, Tex., has
started a movement to ralso a fund of
hal fa million dollars to build a granite
shaft 1,000 feet high at some point In
Kansas ln honor of the women of the
West who voed for Wilson.
Tho Washington pollco held up ono
election bet payment when Munn
Cannon,- George Washington Univer
sity student, rolling a peanut with a
toothpick, held, in his teeth, blocked
tho traffic on Pennsylvania avenue,
Aeroplane mall routes are planned
between Chicago, Detroit and New
York by Glenn Muftly of tho Aero
Club of America.
Poter Rcevo of Chicago has a wood
en leg. It got caught ln a crack whllo
ho, was crawling out the window of
k saloon ho bad Just tobbed. Tho po
llco oorao and took him to Jail.
Forty-four thousand German naval
prisoners are held by tho British juid
81,000 British naval prisoners aro hold
by tho Germans.
Life is hard for the co-eds at Obcr
Hn College. They even have tho col
lege barber shop denied them now. It
was tho only place they could get
their shoes shlned.
Dr. Pcrcival Lowell, world famous
Ishot a Merwln Doctor.
Dr. J. M. Martin, a physician and
druggist of Merwln, was shot and
dangerously Injured by T. W. Holds-
worth, station agent for the Kansa3
City Southern Railway. Tho shoot-
astronomer, head of tho observatory Ing was ln tho rear of tho Hank of
nt Flagstaff,
polexy.
Nearly 5,000,000 yards of mosquito
nets for, the use of tho troops In
Mesopotamia and Saloniki have been
ordered from Nottingham lace curtain School Association of Missouri nt tho
manufacturers. session of tho stato convention at
, , Mexico. R. A. Long of Kansas City
1UV tvoUlCUS iraOO Union LCaeilO .-..., .rfr,MA vlp.nriul,ln ntimr
oi uuicago nas. purchased eight tick- officers elected are: Recording see
ms ior iuo unicago grand opera sea- rctary. Garrett Tanborry of St. Louis
Ariz., is dead of au-
Merwin, of which Doctor Martin is
president.
Heads S. S. Association
William S. Danforth of St. Louis
was re-elected president of the Sunday
son and the working girl will be fur
ther elevated.
Carranza's men at the Joint confer
ence have agreed not to confiscate
treasurer, Lansing F. Smith, St. Louis,
Eighteen men, most of them stu
dents of William Jowell College at
Liberty, escaped serious Injury when
an elevator ln tho Kansas City Rail
ways Building, in which they were
passengers, plunged two stories to
tho basement. Although all were
shaken up, bruised or slightly cut,
not ono sustained any broken bones,
officials of tho company stated. A
sprained ankle wns tho most serious
injury received by any of tho stu
dents, it was said.
For nearly an hour after tho acci
dent occurred the. men wero hold pris
oners ln tho elevator at tho bottom
nf tho shaft, as thero Is no outlot
from tho lift at tho basement. Ef
forts to ralso the machine and men
to the door of tho floor abovo by tho
uso of cables wero In vain, and tho
passengers wero forced to remain in
their dark and uncomfortable posi
tion until the top of tho elevator was
removed. A Indder was then lowered
and each climbed out. All walked to
tho floor above, whero they were
given treatment.
Seventeen of the men woro, William
Jowell students and the other was tho
operator. Tho students wero making
a tour of inspection-of tho building
and had just finished listening to a
talk by Philip J. Kcaly, president of
tho railways company.. Thoy were on
tho way out of the building when tho
accident happened.
It is belioved that tho falluro of a
clutch to work caused tlio lift to fall.
Tho studcntB ln tho party were:
Julian T. Vanllook, Cassvllle, Mo.;
Herbert H. Schwamb, Golden, Col.;
David M. Davl's, DcKalb, Mo.; James
H. Idleheart, Elizabcthtown, Ky.;
Ernest S. Jones, Jelllco, Tcnn.; Man
ford V. Kern, Excelsior Springs, Mo.;
Clarence F. Kerr, St. Joseph, Mo.;
Samuel S. Major, Windsor, Mo.;
Robert L. Ralston, Burlington, Kas,;
Lloyd S. Waterman, Breckinridge,
Mo.; Chester A. Miles, Sholblna, Mo.;
John J. Swlnney, H. C. Scarborough,
G. C. Schwartz, C. F. Gill. B. B.
Thomas and Ralph E. Merrltt of Lib
erty, Mo.
tone Hisioiy or 1 hanksaMiiq
7
President Washington established the
custom officially in the United States, but
men have fervently thanked their Gods
for blessings in all ages and every clime
w1 xir- goddess or me icomnn Harvest was ueres, ner lesuvm
( 'Ri ill Mus ct'lo,,r"t,-tI "tmually mid was called Cernlla. It wns a day
V qtt. ' II Xh ot worsn'l' and rustic sports. Men nu women formed pro-SzflM-il
! cessions and went to tho fields with music. A'lrgll refers to this
'1
KILLED WHILE AT HIS DESK
Winthrop Bartender Shoots One Mem
ber of Liquor Firm and Fatal
ly Wounds Another.
Strikers Act at Springfield.
In keeping with a threat made some
, lii,n ncn fiv utrllflnir nm iilnvnnn nf flip
American mining property if the c',.i.,.fini.i T,nMim r,m,nnv n nnr.
same Is being operated by Jan.
This is tho second extension of tho Gas nnu Klectilc Company, a petition
L1U1U 11IU11.
asking for a special election on u
municipal lighting plant has been
filed with the city commissioners.
Early in tho strike tho company was
given a certain day to settle tho dif
ficulties; tho strikers threatened to
circulate the lighting plant petition
Frank Dcon, tax collector of Dud. if this was not done.
ley, Mass., shot and killed his son
Mrs. Edith Mason, wife of former
United States Senator William E. Ma
son, was attacked by an armed bur
glar, who choked her and left her
insensible.
his daughter-in-law, and attemptpd
suicide. He was drunk.
Orlando Piper, 45, of Peoria. Ill-
despondent over Hughes' defeat,
Jumped ln a 45-foot well. Tho water
was too cold for him, and he yelled
im rescued.
Missouri Boy a Football Victim.
Hiram Cole, 19 years old, student
in Central College, Fayette, who was
Injured in a football game with Mis
souri Military Academy, Is dead at tho
Mexico Hospital without regaining
consciousness. Colo was the son of
C. D. Colo, residing near Hardin.
Dies at Steering Wheel.
M. S. Kalmach, farmer and bank
director, died at tho steering wheel of
his automobilo near Centralla re
cently. Tho car went Into the ditch
and Kalmach's body wa3 hurled
England contemplates calling all un- through tho windsUeld. Ills wife.
employed men under 31 years of ago who wbb with him, oxstrlcatod tho
to tho colors. body from under the car.
Mr, and Mrs. Oscar Wolf of Foos-
land, 111., wero killed at a grado cross
ing by a Wabash freight train. Miss
Ruth Short suffered tho loss of one
leg.
Postofflce clerks havo mado a pro
test to thol president against working
inoro than eight hours a day.
Farmer Killed Near Columbia.
Leslio Toalson, a farmer ton miles
from Columbia, was fatally Injured ro-
nnntlv In n rtinnwnv. I?n w-nn Rlinvnl.
Secretary Lansing has presented i,,E corn nt tho back end of tho wagon,
all tho data on foreign questions to when tho mules bolted, throwing lilm
I resident Wilson for his action. against a corner of the barn.
Walter Jennings, bartender for the
Parsons & Dyer liquor firm of Win
throp, Mo., near St. Joseph, shot and
killed Trought Smith, a member of
tho firm, and probably fatally wound
ed Otto Smith, brother of tho dead
man, In the saloon, tho other night.
Mystory surrounds the cause of tho
shooting, Jennings refusing to make
a statement, and relatives of his vic
tims professing Ignorance of any
trouble. ;
When Jennings finished work at 8
o'clock, ho hung up his apron and
walked into tho company's office,
where Trought Smith was seated at
his desk. Without a word, Jennings
fired twice at Smith, killing him in
stantly. Before anyone could Inter
fere ho walked into the saloon, which .
was crowded, and fired once at Otto .
Smith, who was sitting in a chair, .
just as Emll Smith, another brother,
seized him. Jennings wns arrested by
a deputy bheriff, who was in tho
saloon, and was taken to tho jail at 1
St. Joseph. I
To Vote on a Compromise.
A special election at which voters
of St. Clair county will pass upon d
bond Issuo of $030,000 as a compro
mise payment of a $4,000,000 judg
ment with Interest against the county
on amount ot tho promotion ot tho
old Tebo & Neosho "Railroad, which
was abandoned during tho panic ot
1873, will bo held December 12.
Won for Legislature; Dead.
Joseph E. Lawton, 72 years old,
who was elected to the stato' legisla
ture as a Republican from tho Sixth
District ot St. Louis, is dead from a
complication of diseases. Ho was
president of tho Lawton-Byrne-Bruner
lnsuranco agency there.
CM
Austrian aviators Jn a recent raid School Teacher Badly Burned,
on Wcadora, Italy, demolished a Miss Alice V. Held, a teacher of
building whero many women and cull- Now Homo School, north of Sweet
drcn had taken refuge. Sixty fatalt- Springs, was seriously burned re-
tles resulted. ccntly. She was at tho home of A.
F Nole screams attracted members
Tho city of Saloniki, Greece, which 0f ih family to her room. Her cloth
had donated a talaco to tho king, took np wns on flro. A lighted lamp and
it back because of tho monarch's 'in- uncorked bottle of gasoline were on
gratitude.' tll0 ,rcB3ei. nmi aro thought to havo
caused tho fire. The flames wero ex
Mrs. James Kearney of Scranton, tlngulshcd by wrapping bedclothes
Pa., gavo birth to quadruplets, two nr0und her body.
uun uuu iwu irs.
Many cabinet changes aro promised
next March. Vanco McCormick is
said to bo slated for ono ot tho vac
ant portfolios
Jamaica's foreign trado Is $480,000
on tho bad sldo of tho ledger, owing
'to the tropical hurricanes which
swept tho island and destroyed crops.
Uourke Cockran, tho famous law
yer of New York, haa undertaken tho
defenso of tho bomb-throwers who
Blow 10 at San Francisco during a
preparedness parade,
Lorraine, 9-year-old daughter ot Mr.
and Mrs. J. L. Roynolds, was killed
at Carthage whei. sho was struck ,by
n motor car driven by 'Tom Shelton,
a mino operator. Tho accident oc
curred as tho girl was on tho way
homo from school.
Announcement was mado at Seda
lla by tho secretary ot tho Leagno ot
Missouri Municipalities Its convention
which was to be held at Joplln, No
voinber 15-1G, has been postponed to
a later date, which will bo determin
ed bj tho executive committee.
McDanlel Lost by 2,754.
Oscar D. McDanlel, prosecuting at
torney at St. Joseph," charged ot mur
dering his wife, was defeated for re
election by his Republican opponent,
whoso plurality in elghty-ono out of
eighty-seven precincts was 2,754. Mc
Danlel got 0,458 votes and Bothwell
9,212.
College Buildings Burned.
Tho Liberal Arts Building of the
Missouri Wesleyan College at Cam
eron and tho president's resldonco
wero destroyed by fife recently. Tho
loss Is $Ci,O00, insured for $10,000.
Tho school Is conducted by tho Meth
odist Episcopal Church, Tho board
of trustees will at onco nrrangc to
rebuild. Tho students formed a
bucket brigade and saved tho other
buildings of tlio college group.
festival. Ho mentions tho sacrifices that wero offered in the
temples, nnd nlludes to the joyousncs") of tho occasion. But
Roman thanksgiving days were not confined to this nimual
celebration of tho festival of Ceralln. Sometimes they were
held in commemoration of victorious martial campaigns. Plu
tarch tells us of the emperor who to conceal his defeat ordered
a thanksgiving, which wus observed. Then when the facts of
I l.ln iltIn.H,.i... n.,l.i nn.n,. 1... ,i.,..i Iwi nYPIIGlIf!
himself on the ground that ho did not "wish to deprive tho people of n day
of enjoyment."
In one way or another, a thanksgiving day has been observed in
Christian Europe for centuries before Its celebration In New England. On
the continent, and for n time in Englnnd, it occurred at Martinmas, which
was a day nf feasting nnd drinking. Occasionally, too, civil authorities recom
mended the observance of some fixed day. To celebrate the victory of King
Henry V of Englnnd, nt Aglncourt, October S.", I41C, a public thanksgiving
wns held on Sunday, the feast of St. Edward, tho King and Confessor. Such
n day, too, wns observed In Leyden, Holland, October 3, ir7f, the first anni
versary ot that city from the siege by the Spaniards.
Many Instances of n thanksgiving day can bo pointed out ln England
during the sixteenth nnd seventeenth centuries. In IfwO, the second year of
Elizabeth's reign, Thanksgiving day entered Rogation day. Then It wns
ordered that thanks should bo given to Almighty God "for the Incrense nnd
abundance of his fruits upon the earth." In this reign, too, there was a
great national thanksgiving day that is worthy of note. This occurred
Tuesday, November 1'.), irp."8, and was ln commemoration of the great victory
over the "Invincible Annnda."
One legal nnd annual thanksgiving day, because of tho long time It wns
such, deserves speclnl mention. After the traitors in tho Gunpowder plot
had been tried and punished In 1G05, it was ordered that because of their
deliverance the English people should keep the fifth of November every year
"as a public thanksgiving day to Almighty God; that unfeigned thankfulness
may never be forgotten, nnd that all nga to come may yield praises to God's
divine majesty for the same." The "fifth of November" continued a legnl
thanksgiving day for more than two centuries; but In later years It fell Into
disuse, and ln 1S3H was abolished by parliament.
Long before tho advent of tho Pilgrims in Massachusetts, all rituals
rnntnlncd expressions of gratitude to God for his mercies. In that of the
Church of England, special prayers wero provided for tho Sunday service.
This service, however, must be carefully distinguished from the Thanksgiv
ing day of the Pilgrim fathers. Failure to make this distinction has led to
the groundless claim that tho Popham colonists were "tho first to keep
Thanksgiving day" In America. The service nt Monliegan, on which this
claim Is based, was the regular Sunday service of tho Church of England;
and while It had nn element of thanksgiving, the day can In nowise be re
garded as a thanksgiving day as that term Is understood."
The record mado ln his "Breeches Bible" by William White, who came
over In tho Mayflower, has far more significance In determining tho origin
of our American Thanksgiving day than tho event at Monhegan. The record
read: "William White married on ye 3rd day of March, 1020, to Susannah
Tilly, Peregrine White born on board yo Mayflower ln Cape Cod Harbor.
Sonne bnrn to Susannah White l!)th ye six o'clock morning. Next dny we .
meet for prayer and thanksgiving." This meeting "for prayer nnd thanks- .
giving" wns not on Sunday, but on Tuesday. The fact that It was not n part -.
of the regular Sunday service makes It more nearly accord with our Idea '
of Thanksgiving day than does the Monhegan event.
Tho prototype of our present Thanksgiving day is found In the harvest
festival at Plymouth In 1021. The long winter that followed the establish
ment of tho colony had been so severe that less than half the settlers had
survived It. "At one time during tho winter only Brewster, Standlsh, and
five other hardy ones wore well enough to get about." In the spring and
Slimmer that followed, their fortunes improved, and by autumn they lind
cleared 20 acres and made It ready for cultivation. This Industry, too, had
been rewarded by a bounteous harvest. Now food and fuel sufficient for
the needs of the approaching winter wero laid in. Then Governor 'Bradford
ordered a thanksgiving the first In America.
The first thanksgiving was not for a day only. It continued n week.
In n letter to n friend ln England. Edward Wlnslow has given us a brief
account of the festivities. This letter bears date of December 11, nnd In It
Wlnslow wrote: "Our hnrvest being gotten In, our Governor sent four men
on fowling that so we might after special mnnner rejoice together nfter wo
bad gathered the fruits of our labors. They killed ns much fowl ns with
a little help beside served the company about n week. At which times
among other recreations we exercise our arms, many of the Indians coming
amongst us, and among the rest their greatest king, Mnssasoyt, with some
ninety men, whom for three days wo entertained and feasted, and they went
out and killed five deer which they brought nnd bestowed on onr Governor
and upon the captains nnd otliers.
The records make no mention of n thanksgiving day In tho next year,
but In the year following, 1023, such a day wns held. This, however, wns not
In tho autumn, but In July on the arrival of provisions from England. Nearly
50 years pass before we hoar of another thanksgiving day at Plymonth.
There was one In 100S. and another for the nccession of tho Orange Stuarts,
William and Mary, in 10SO. An autumnal thanksgiving was held fn 1G0O, the
Inst In the history of Plymouth colony,
Independently of Plymouth, Massachusetts Bay colony had occasionally
Us own thanksgiving days. There was such a day for the "safe nrrlval of
slims" lulv 8. 1030; and again the next February, when the provision ship.
Ambrose, arrived, in jim--, uio p-m-mi ....!-. iuhiiiiic urnnKs-
giving day In recognition of the "m'ey of God vouchsafed to the churches
of Goil ln Germany and the Pallatlnnte." Tho next year the court, because
of tho bountiful harvest, appointed October 10 ns a thanksgiving dny the
first hnrvest festival In the history of the colony. By 1CS0 the nntnmnal
thanksgiving had become an annual festival. No doubt In Its games nnd
sports It took the place of the English Christmas, for until comparatively
recent date all that savored of Rome and tho episcopacy was held In dis
favor In Massachusetts. . , ,
During the Revolution Thanksgiving day became national. All through
tho war congress annually sot apart a day for thanksgiving; but after the
"Thanksgiving for Peace" In 17S3, there woro no more until Washington
beenme president In 17S9. On October 3 of this year nt New York he Issued
a proclamation nsklng tho observance of Thursday. November 20, ns n dny
for national thanksgiving. This was the beginning of the orthodox "Inst
Thursday" that has since boon named In presidential proclamations, Bj
thls time the festival hud general official recognition throughout Now Eng.
land, nnd In ibis year, 178!). tho Protestant Episcopal prayer books recognized
tho authority of civil government In the appointing of thanksgiving days.
The chief differences between tho two was tho want of ceremony at Ply
mouth that characterized tho EngUMi festival. In somo parts of England
tho iiierry-maklng was around tho "noddlngshenf," or "kern baby;" and In
ninny places the lust load of the harvest was drawn to the bnrn In u wagon
called tho "boch cart." In front went pipe and tnbor. and mound It gath
ered tho reapers, malo and female, singing Joyously ns thoy proceeded. At
Plymouth there was no ceremony.
1
w
mi
A. H. T. A. to Meet.
Tho 4-stnto conferenco of tho Anti
Horse Thief Association will bo hold
at Gnlenn, Kas,, November 20. Rep
resentatives from Missouri, Kansas,
Oklahoma and ArkanaaB will meet to
dlscuBS legislation needed to protect
tho property ot thu association mem
bers. Boy Dies of Gunhhot Wounds.
Lo Roy Turner, 17 years old, la
dead at Mobcrly from wounds sustain
ed at his homo ln Brunswick when
ho accldontly shot himself.
His Only Hope.
"Tell uio," spake the easy mark,
"what sort of u girl should I propose
to?"
"Sho should bu rich," rejoined the
female fortune teller, "nnd If you ex
pect her to accept you, she must also
bo foolish,"
Opinions Differ.
"Men are like wagons," remarked
tho man who dispenses nphorlsms.
mnko tho most noise wuen
"They
empty." , , .,
"Your trolley is oft the wire," re
joined tho contrary person. "A man
makes tho most noise when he Is full."
Advice That Failed.
Rich Uncle What I Broke again?
You ought to take Solomon's advice to
the sluggard about going to tho ant
for
Nephew (Interrupting) So 1 did,
uncle, but hunt says sIiq la In Uio somo
deplorable condition.
m
