"THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1909
A Democratic journat, devoted to Local and 6cneral Ncws, Litcrature, Science, lgriculturct, tc.
VOL LXI COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1916 NUMBER 6
JolN OURCHR A 3ANKING LUB
-o> CA SPLAN OF THE CLUB
The Plan is Simple: Yob begin with a certain amount, le, 2c, 5c or 10c,
and increase your deposit the same amount each week. Or you can begin with
IT a certain amount, 50c, $1.00, $5.00, or any amount, and deposit the sane amoet
each week.
HOW TO JOIN
Look at the different Clubs in the table below and select the one you wish to
join, the le, 2c, 5c, 10c, 50c, $1;00, $5.00, or any of the clubs; then come to our
ank with the first weekly payment. We will make you a member of the Club
Sand give you a Christmas Banking Club Book showing the Club you have joined.
EVERYBODY CAN JOIN---Men and Women. Boys and Girls, Little Chiikfren, The Baby
You can take out memberships for your family and your friends An employer can take out memberships for his employes We will welcome everyom
WHAT THE DIFFERENT CLUBS WILL PAY YOU:
ic Club 2c Club 5c Club 10c Club 50c Club $1.00 Club $5.00 Club X Club
PAYMENTS PAYMENTS PAYMENTS PAYMENTS PAYMENTS PAYMENTS PAYMENTS
1st Week Ic............lc 1st Week ............2c 1st Week ..........5c 1st Week ...........10c 1st Week ...........50c lsi Week.........SLO00 1st Week.........$5.00 FOR
2nd Week. 2c 2nd Week ............4 2nd Week ..........10c 2nd Week ...........20c 2nd Week...........50c 2nd Week........$1.00 2nd Week .......$5.00
3rd Week ........... 3c 3rd Week ............6c 3rd Week ...........15c 3rd Weck ......... 3rd Week ...........50c 3rd Week .......$1.00 3rd Week ........$5.00
Increase 1s every week Increase 2c every week Increase 5c every week Increase 10c every week Deposit 50c every week Deposit $1 every week Deosit $5 every week
Total in 50 weeks Total in 50 weeks Total in 50 weeks Total in 50 weeks Total in 50 weeks Total in 50 weeks Total in 50 weeks
$12.75 $25.50 $63.75 $127.50 $25.00 ' $50.00 $250.00 or any amiount
YOU CAN BEGIN WITH THE LARGEST PAYMENT FIRST AND DECREASE YOUR PAYMENTS EACH WEEK
The Reasons for the Club For Old and Young eing for all t to dto irto ~ r
. .,. i Christuma Bsaking Cl ubrid lpit every hmemb
To provide a way for those of moderate and small means to bank their money. their family into it. This will teach them the value of money and how to bak and HAVE
To provide a way for those of moderate and small means to ank their money. MONEY. Maybe this little start you give them now may some day set them up ia bmsiss
To teach "the saving habit" to those who have never learned it. or boy them a home.
It makes your pennies, nickels and dimes, often foolishly spent grow into How often have you wished that your parents had taught y early in life the vl
dollars; dollars grow into a fortune. Start your fortune to-day. of banking your money. You would be welly to-day. Don't make the same mistake
To give you a Bank connection and show how our Bank can be of service to yeou. with YOUR children.
WE PAY 4 PER CENT INTEREST IN OUR CHRISTMAS BANKING CLUB
BANK ( (A Y Capital Stock - 25 - ,
Surplus and Profits, - $2250(
The Newspaper Holdup.
The American-Press has pub
lished a news article which states
that the federal trade commis
sion has ascertained that, while
the price of newsprint has climb
ed in a year from less than two
dollars per hundred pounds to
three dollars, three apd a half
dollars and as high as seven dol
lars, accordhig to the acuteness
of the unfortuna'e purchaser's
need, the cost price of producing
newsprint has been $1.65 per
hundred pounds, or below the
average cost for the past three
years.
According to the Louisville
Courier-Journal, the paper trust
not only is in complete control
of the situation, but will press
its advantage relentlessly. It
quotes the president of the Inter
national Paper Company, the big
gest factor in the paper business,
as saying:
"The contract price of paper
for 1917, which has not yet been
fixed, will not be less than three
Seats at the mill."
This means either that many
publishers will have to make tre
mendous increases in the price
of subscriptions and advertising,
or some of them will have to go
out of business. While the In
ternational Paper Company don't
control the entire supply, this
company is "some trust" and
does furnish paper to avery large
number of the publishers of this
countr y. There seems little
doubt that such an understand
ing exists among the paper man
ufacturers that the president of
the International gaper Company
knows exactly what he is saying
when he gives notice that even
the heaviest buyers must pre
pare to pay nearly double the
price at which paper sold a )ear
ago.
The American-Press uses ap
proximately 125 tons of paper ,a
year and such an advance as is
expected will add $3000 to $4000
a year to its expense. It is not
only paper that has advanced in
price either. Ink which is a con
siderable expense item costs $18
a barrel more than it did six
months ago; linotype metal, with
which the type lines are cast each
day, has increased $120 per ton
since the war began and while it
can be recast every day, some of
it disappears or is lost at each
recasting, and in fact every item
of material used has increased in
price. In such conditions news
papers everywhere are finding
that increases in subscription and
advertising rates, or both, are in
evitable.-Lake Charles Ameri
can-Press.
Now Lookout.
When a cold hangs on as often hap
pens, or when you have hardly .gotten
over one cold before you contract an
other, lookout for you are liable to
contract some very serious disease.
This succession of colrs weakens the
system and lowers the %itality so that
you are mucn more liable ,to contract
chronic catarrh, pnetimo4ia or con
sumption. Cure yocr col4 while you
can. Chamberlains CoughRemedy has
a great reputation. It is relied unon
by thousands of people and never dis
appoints them. Try it. It only costs
a quarter. Obtainable everywere.
Adv.
Proelamation of Election.
Colfax, La., Nov. 21, 1916.
The Board of Supervisors of Grant
Parish Road District No. 8 met at the
court house in Colfax. La., at 1 o'clock
p. m. The members of this board are
as follows: W. A. Brownlee, police ju
ror for ward one; C. W. Calhoun, police
juror for ward six; G. C. Purvis, plice
juror for ward seven; J. If. McNeely,
school board member for ward one; N.
S. Roberts, school board member for
ward six; M. E. Jackson, school board
member for ward seven; and H. L.
Brian, appointed by the police jury.
All the members were present except
N. S. Roberts.
W. A. Brownlee was nominated and
elected to be president of the Board of
Supervisors of Road District No. &
H. L. Brian was nominaled and elect
ed to be secretary.
J. H. MeNeely was nominated and
elected to be treasurer.
On motion duly seconded the follow
ing ordinance was unhimoausly adopted:
AN ORDINANCE
Calling a special election for the pur
pose of submittinj t4 the property
taxpayers of Grant Parish Road Dis
trict No. 8, Grant parish, Louisiana,
who are authorized to vote at such
election, under the constitutioa sad
laws of the State of Louisiana, the
followtng propositioa, b-wit
Whereas it is tht voluntary will of
the Board of Supervisors of Grant Par
ish Road District No. 8, Grant parish,
La., to call an election of the property
taxpayers of Road District No. 8 eligi
bleto vote in a tax election in the said
road district, for the purpose of sub
mitting to the property taxpayers of
said Road District No. 8, who are auo
thorized to vote at such election under
the constitution and laws of the State
of Louisiana, the
PROPOSITION to incur debt and is
sue negotiable bonds therefor of the
said Grant Parish Road District No. 8
in the sum of one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000) for the
PURPOSE of constructing and gray
eling the following publie roads, to
gether with bridges and other neces
sary equipment, within the limits of
said district, titleto which shall vest in
the public, viz:
(1) A graveled road from Verda to
Colfax, a distance of twelve miles, at a
cost not to exceed two thousand dollars
($2,000) per mile;
(2) The graveling of the Verda-I(ont
gomery reod, a distance of eight les
at a cost not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000) per mile;
(3) The building and graveling of two
spurs to the Jefferson Highway in ward
six, a distance of four miles, at a cost
not to exceed two thousand dollars
(2,000) per mile;
(4) A graveled road from eMrame
to the Boyce ferry, ai taee of three
and one-half miles, at a met mot to is
eeed two thousand dollars ($23,00) pet
mile;
(5) A graveled road from the Wia
parish line, near Crews, to the Rapies
perish line, by way of Momtgamey,r
Colfax and Bagdad, the amw belg
known as the Jeferson Highway, ad1.
tance of about thirty-three miles;
All of the above roads, eocept th
Jefersoa Highway, to be builIt by ths
Board with labor and teams, home ia.
bor to be given the preferencea
The amid bonds to ram for a peeod of
thirty years and to bear interest at the
rate of five per ent per anuma, pay,
able semi-anumally: and
Whereas Article 281 of the Comestitu
tion of 1888, as amended by Act lIt at
the Legislature of 1912 adopted by the
people in November, 1912, and Act 396
of the Legislature of 1910 as ameadmed
by Act 218 of 1912 and Act 190 of 1911,
declares the Board of Supervisers ef
Grant Parish Road District No. 8 to be
the governing authority tewhk
said district may incur debt an eo e
negotiable bonds for such petpose
when so authorised at as electlem held
is said district; and
Whereas the asessed vahoetis t
taxable property in said Reed D~usti
S Comised em meaod am .
