c HTEIlsMD
HOME EDITION
ME Mil
WEATHER TOBECASTS.
EI fw and wt Texas, fair, warmer.
Jlrrleo, fair, warmer. Arizona,
fall
ilr. warmer.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS. single copt five cent
EL PASO, TEXAS. SATURDAY EVENING. NOVEMBER 25. 1916.
32 PAGES. 3 SECTIONS. TODAY.
DELIVERED ANTWHERB t. A MOKTH
rmy Foo
ef eats The Navy J j
TODAY'S PRICES
llexi-.an bank oi.- cuff WU 19
1 pesos, 6ic, Mexican sold 49 .
narionale. lCc, bar stiver, II a. H quo-
utton 73Sc; topper. 1! JOfR M
srirs lower, livestock steady, etocks
Afcl
"
Great Army Player Over
whelms Middies; Scores
In Opening Periods.
NAVY'S DEFENCE
IS INADEQUATE
Secretaries of War and Naoy
Cheer the Rival Service
Teams To Victory.
POLO GROUNDS. New York. Nor.
25. The Army met the Navy In
their annual football contest here
today in an amphitheater filled by
Yprobably 50,000 spectators.
The Army team won the game "by a
B ire of 15 to 7.
Fifteen minutes before the. time eet
for the call of the frame, the West
Point cadets marched on the field.
They were followed by the Middles.
Secretary of the navy Jbsephus Dan-
'e!s occupied .a field box below the
TCavy rooters; secretary of war New-
on D. Baker being on the opposite
fc.de neat the cadet rooters.
TIi at IfttalfTI'
,RMt POSITION NAVY I
sss?!
r.ujK-ui, .....i..x. vj. .......... Keiiei
McEwan 'C.... C. Goodstein.,
Bu'ier ....... r7t Oarke i
um. ...... .. I. . lillman
(- ader .......R..E. IscVsnn
rhardt........Q.K. Whelehel
FhiCt UH. ...Roberts
pbant RH. Ingraham
a' FT.B. Terry
.. . Army Scores Klrat.
lliphant caught the klckoff on his
w ' 1 e yard line and carried it to
i a Jw five yard line before he was
fc.wned by Ingraham. Two more plavs
arrled the ball over Oliphant missed
the goal
Score Army, 6, Navy. 0.
ArmT JlDBS lira. Il'f.k f?
OJIphant. after an exchange of kicks, '
Bcored again with a -olacement net 1
froBi the
20 yard mark. Army 9;
Nay 0
in the second period. Vidal scbred
a tourhd wn for them army, Oliphant
-...-.. .5. ... 6. -cvrt. Army 15:
Jvavy 0
How It IVaa Sane.
The army's second ! nnt.,.. --
tl5i 1?.w i the opening of the
firtri .. . r; . t - "- it 1 j--. August io, uio, auu jne reorgan
XoaT lLP onnhlnx Xi yards ? .V1! ixed !t the Third Pennsylvania field
? kick the SS Th, Lln v.fa,Ie5 ' arU"ery. under the call of the presi
t? kick tne goaL The Navy line braced dent of June 18 ltlS The Third
5S Sff-Hr- asrHraSsr-hsSS?
(Continned on face z. CoL U. Camp Stewart. El Paso, October S.
- -.-. nubu uciiiiiriii Kn.ir
llEDEFElTSIRlDRmfl
81 PEDP
Casey, Legore and Horween Are Three Stars in Great
Intercollegiate Classic; Punts Are Prominent Fea
ture of the Game; Yale Forwards Display Ability
to Crash Through the Harvard Line
.V
ALE BOWL, New Haven
(Tfinn .
. , ,
id Harvard I
2 in their
Nov 25. Tale defeated
" by a score of 6 to
nual football game here today.
Clear skies, crisp atmosphere and a
sterly wind with energy enough In
o influence the punting side of the
je were the weather conditions.
crowd hegan to pour into the city
st before breakfast time.
"ty thousand persons, lacking a
uucu. consuerea themselves
:ae in having obtained seats from
r tte 100 006 who had applied for
at ons within the bowL
1 neup
I'oslflon: Harvard:
y L. E....C A. Cjolidgs
' T. Wheeler
C L. G Dadmun(C
I"" C Harris
... R G Sncm-I
ee ..... R T nm.r
r-ri R E. Hart-.
lie Q. B Robinson.
T. II T hnAl.AI
-R H.. ......... .Casev i
.F. B. Horween
A. Tufts. Brown: um-
1 Fultz, Brown.
I judge W. N. Morice, Pennsyi-
tman: Dr. Carl Williams. I
lari a. i
ier Jds. 15 minutes each. I
Harvard WIn Tun.
won the toss and Dadmun
tiorth goal Comerford's
f jmbled b Casey but re-
1'admun on the IS yard
bit left tackle for five,
he next nlsv and IT.ir-
d Lal.oJie returning to-
Ke) the tackles for two
jr1- -v f rl. d a forward pass
F.ded Legore punted and
udge
Is Colonel Of Neu)
Artillery Command
QaHHHHHH f
i
'lafa-B-E-SS
. jHHHH i "as
iHHHTc
1 BB3hSm
(BBKr' - . -$
L'&3&fcii i ,9HI
lSg; "rallffiiSaf' IHj
t sesfe-. ,jKr v? j3Ke
USE', ? slPHi i
?ssiHaSi5SKBElS8El
naderer tndta, TUV4 & 'EI Cao.
f OI ASnEB jnNER -Third Penn-
I . sylvanla, f elf d artillery, enljsted In
-- --- ....... 4
lp cgrporal dnrlny.Jha.fla
5 ,, . , -r .,.. I
unuoB"1 '"""J - "" ""' '
ucuLcuauM .uij a, Aooi, duu V4AVMU11,
July 21. 1S88. He resigned his commls- lands or the lower Air nas oeen oroKcp.
-i itoft n -in I Austro-German troops have crossed the
sion In 1890, (Oct. 101. 1 rjver jm i
He was appointed colonel and gen- Forces of field marshal von'Macken
eral Inspector of rifle- practice on the" i sen Tiave crossed the Danube and
staff of governor Daniel H. Hastings. gained 'a footing1 qn Rumanian soIL
May 2L. 1895. In 1898 he organized and Bnlgara Setter Danube Islands,
was elected colonel of the Seventh i T.m, -vx- s niiimrun
ACUUCUb UL lUlItJ. ... X. f4. WU1V11
AIn.nn .... "V- T t-l-l.
n-o .,.l XX... .. .1, T- .!.
Spanish-American war. In 1839 he re
signed as general Inspector of rifle
practice.
In ISO" he was unanimously invited
to accept the colonelcy of the Ninth
; inrantry, r. G f, and continued in
I command of the regiment until the ex
i'Pirauon of his commission
in 1912. f
when the regiment ranked at the head
or the state.
In April. 1916. he -sa again appoint
ed colonel of the Ninth infantry. N.
G. P. which regiment was ordered to
mobilize for U. a service at Mt. Gretna,
FliiT
LE SEE RSRB
PnMn.An - - Ji.l !.- t
.ww.uow., nos Ulipcu UII IX1C .riIHSOn
flve yard line Hjrween's return punt
went to Yae's 25 yard mark and Le-
mark. Horween kicked again on the
third down. La Roche being downed on
his 21-yard mark.
Harvard eorea Three.
Three jards were gained through
"Wheeler, then Legore punted out of
bounds at his 38 yard line. Harvard
lost 15 yards for holding. Horween
kicked high for 25 yards and Thacher
recovered Laroche's fumble A delayed
pass gained five, then Robinson drop
kicked a goal from the 21 yard mark.
Score: Harvard S. Tale 0.
Casey a?ain fumbled the kickoff but
the ball bounded into Robinson's ha nils
An exchange of punts marked the end
of the period. Harvard having the bail
on Tale's 41 vard line.
Caey Touchdown'' Kall-
Second period
Neville intercepted a forward pass at
the start of the period on his 22 yard
line. A fumble stopped Tale's attack
and Legore punted to Harvard's 30
vard lln Pascv hrnlcA thriiich thn
line and dodged all thp war rtnwn thu
field for a mpm1n? tnliphdnwn hut tri
nlay was recalled and Harvard was
penalized 16 yards for holding. The
r.n!tani nunr wnt rttili' ninu ..n.l
I hut nfter lin tattnelrR fnllA,! TTa,.a1
blocked a forward pass and Neville
kicked short on an attemnted field enaL
It's a Puntlns name.
Harvard made the Initial first down
of the game, starting from the 20 yard
( mark and then was forced to punt, i
la'es anacK . ialleu again and Iegore
nnntpri Cokv mimin, h -,... I
Comerford and Horween raced for thei
ball, the Harvard man .retting .t on v.i
tv vard mrt ll. t rTnti .i
urocne made a fair catch on the 45
nfnt Soj n,i l-VXlZ ?...? a plaCKV r,ous nolnts ne that e embody : ous Texas libraries to Andrew Carnegie,
ment goal and kicked into the upright. ,eemed to realize Hi. importance of congratulating him on the Slst anni
IContinned on Face z Column 21 ' making eonne-fions with the world. 1 ersar of his birth.
. - - .
a City According To Their Own Associates and The Life
(GREEK REBELS
DECLARE I
Followers of Venizelos to
Fight Bulgaria; Entente
Demands Arms at Once.
-X
London. Ens1.. NoZ 25. The provi
sional government of Greece formed by
supporters of former premier Venizelos,
formally declared war on Bulgaria
ays an Athens dispatch to the Bi
raose Telegraph company today. The
Venizelos government was formed In
protestNigalnst the attitude of king
Constantino in refusing to Join the
entente all's in war against Bulgaria.
Another Athens dispatch, sent under
Friday's date says the entente allies
delivered an Ailtlmatum to Greece,
meaning the government of king Con
stantino requiring the immediate de
livery of the Greek arms and guns de
manded recently.
Reply had already been made to the
demand that the Greek government
could not consider giving up Its arms
and ammunition, leaving the govern
ment helpless to cope with such situa
tions as might necessitate measures of
defence.
teutons: S1EEP
Berlin, Germany. Nov. 25j (By wire
less t Sayville.) Attacks ot the
Rnsso-Bumanian forces In the Gyergyo
mountains on the- Moldavian front were
repqised Friday by-Jho Teutonic forces
ttiul atwtfM;-w piiy "
It
-1 . , v .m. I
tie Austro-uerman invaaers. xne re- j
SISianCe OX IDe ftUUiailliUIZS 1U wn luw- I
. A,M,.. .w.. -" " Z
.nn 1.aa .-.nMnnIf.1
islands In the
ll4 ... X-i-.U
Danube southeast of Craiova, the war
office announced today.
The statement follows
"In the Dobrudja. enemy detachments
in superior numbers approacned our
positions but were repulsed by..our
.ltT. 1 Hah, h TlO FMhi.TlftT .
itrLlilCrj- .lit nt"b "- - " J" .i"
Slllstria. Turtukai ana liusicon. iuw
pst sTtlllerr ftcWIns N .S'SSf;
fZr.lnvn Tnrnanti and V&"d1n. detaCtl'
ments of our troops occupied Islands
in the Danube."
Rosebury Says England
Is Fighting For the U. S.
London, Eng. Nov. 25. Arguing in a
speech at Edinburgh against a peace
which would restore the situation as It
was before the war, lord Rosebury
said: .
"We are righting tor every neuirai
nation. "We are fighting for one that ;
we were vanquished in the war which
Heaven forbid' the United States .
would be the next to suffer from the
aggressive and unscrupulous power of
rrussla."
SUPER-ZEPPELIN WRECKED
BY STORM, FALLS IN WOODS
London. England, Nov. 25 The
wrecking of a super-Zeppelin In a
storm Tuesday, is reported by travelers
reaching Amsterdam from Munich.
sas an Exchange Telegraph dispatch
from Amsterdam. They report there
was only one survivor of the crew of
28.
The Zeppelin is said to ha'e been
on the na; from Friedrlchshaven to
Wilhelmshaven on its first voyage
when it was blown out of its course
and fell in the woodx near Mainz.
GERMAN TORPEDO BOATS
RAID ON ENGLISH COAST
London, Eng.. Nov 25. A raid by six
German torpedo boat destroyers on the
English coast, which took place on
Thursday night, was announced in an
official statement today. The raid was
Ineffective, according to the statement,
which declares that the six German de
stroyers participating in it steamed
away quickly after firing a dozen
rounds, one shell striking a small ves
sel, but causing little damage and no
Injury.
M. XEIt VTOKK I ArrOI-NTKIl
m-'SMV.N FOUKIG MI.M.STEIt
London. Eng., Nov 25. The appoint-
ment of M. ?eratofr. assistant Russian
minister for foreign affairs, as forei
minister, is reported by Reuters Pet
rograd correspondent, M. Neratoff re
places Boris Sturmer. who held the for
eign portfolio as well as the premier
ship. KERNAN GOES OVER THREE
PROPOSED. TEXAS HIGHWAYS
Austin. Tex Nov. 25 E. J. Hernan.
assistant director general of the Na
tional Highwajs association, has re
turned to Austin after a month's ab
sence holding meetings along the routes
of three proposed highways. These
highways are the Fort Worth-Brady-
Pan Antonio State highway, the Fort
Worth - El Paso air line, and that part
of the Southern National from El Paso
to San Antonio, through v an Horn. Fort
Stockton. Sonora. Menard and Mason,
'rom which place the road follows the
Great Plains route to Austin and Ilous-
ton Mr Hernan said he found consid- ,
ciauirj iiiicirni utiiik iiih niiesiru ai a- i
, .. r, f;wii " "1rw?r"li;5'j
.. - Tau !,- .
miBii,jco-jiue- Ana) -pass, inrre tjeen-ea-pyar.&c, y 1 Derz
THREE ARE DEffl
II INJURED
3
IN CB
United Stales Seamen, In a
Launch, Caught kinder
Paddte of Steamer.
BLADE SHEARS
LAUNCH IN TWO
Coxswain TaJes Chance In
Attempting To Steer In
Narrow Channel.
SAN FRANCISCO. Califs Nov. 23.
Three United States sailors met
death here today and half a score
were injured when a. launch carrying
35 men of the supply ship Glacier's
crew was swept under the paddle blades
of the stern wheel river steamer
Apache.
The dead: R. E. "Wiley and Grover
Campbell, both seamen, carried down
Jn he launch, and tVm.' Helberger, chief
machinist's mate, Glendale, Calif., in
ternally hurt, int A!ed of submersion.
The relatives of all were notified by
the navy -department. "Wiley's mother.
i jrv "Blta.- Wiley, Jives at McKinney,
Itr9
'CStepbeffismothr, Mrs. -Nancy Camp-
. f. .
ro at jviiauieauon?.jf. -a-
er nas a sisier. Airs, xouisc ecncci-
at Arvada, Colo.
A pulmotor crew from the city fire
department worked over Helberger for
two hours, with no success. He was
picked up half a mile from shore, too
exhausted to recuperate.
The big steel paddle blade sheared
off the stem of tjief launch, which sank
like a stone - and every han aboard
fended for himself.
One man; Fred "Wright, was taken to
the harbor emergency hospital. All the
others went to the Glacier.
The launch In charge of Bob Roberts,
X? "T At"?'!. w
coxswaln..jut out from the snip De-
h naai barge No. .5. At Bier i6 was
tll. ..., ,i dtmir. Th. nare 1i.
" '', J -- - c- -
tween was small but Roberts consid
ered it ample and headed the launch
midway between the two biff boats.
Tide SneDt Launch to Destruction.
As the launch ran out from the pro
tecting piers, the tide caught It and
swept it Against the stern of the river
steamer The Apache's wheel was re
versed, and revolving slowly. Before
Roberts could twist his wheel, the
launeh was directly under the great
steel blade.
The navy men suffered, water front
men say. from lack of knowledge that
the Aptache's wheel frequently Is kept
( coing for some time after she docks.
I This keeps her in position. The Apache
makes the night run from Sacramento
to San Francisco, about 110 miles.
M.'ciri Wnn'f Fill Bill
rV UZUTl YV UTl I r iy, DUl
Watches Stenographer
Circle the While House
Washington. D. C Nov. 2i. Presi
dent Wilson watched his confidential
stenographer, Charles L. Swan, circle
over the white house today in an air
plane which buckea a high wind. The
president smiled and shook his head.
He had declined the invitation to fly
The president, accompanied by Mrs.
"Wilson, will leave here tonight on a
special train to attend the Army-Navy
football game in New York tomorrow.
He will return tomorrow night.
ALL WORKERS ARE URGED
TO SECURE EIGHT HOUR DAY
Baltimore, Md , Nov. 25. All workers. !
organized and unorganized. were
strongly urged to concentrate their ef
forts to secure an eight hour work j
aay ai me earnest possioie time, in a
committee report adorted by the
American reueratlon of Labor conven
tion today. The report pledged "the
,
der.
unswerving support of the American ' time for their withdrawal shall be ex
labor movement to the eight hour ' tended to such timo as made necessary
principle." I by the developments.
It recommended that a special com- J Mexicans t Oeenpy Kvacualed
mlttee be appointed to confer on the ' Territory,
subject with the organized employes I Tnc Mexrv n commissioners agreed
of the transportation companies and tfcat as American troops are with
report not later than four weeks be-,Jrann- Mexican troops shall be moved
fore the next annual convention of the
federation.
FOUR ALLEGED MEXICAN
RAIDERS FILE AN APPEAL
Austin, Tex . Nov. 25. An appeal was
filed toda in the court of crjmlnal ap
peals by four Mexicans, alleged to be
Carranzistas. who were given the death
penalty in the district court of Webb
county. The Mexicans are Jose An
tonio Arce, Vlncento Lira, Pablo San
chez and Jesus Cerda.
The record discloses that they raided
the Texas border at San Ignacio last
June and were met by a detachment of
United States soldiers, which resulted
in the killing of eight Mexicans and
the capture of these four. One U. S.
soldier was killed. The four Mexicans
were turned over to the civil authori
ties and given the death penalty.
THY. VS
IIIIlAItli:.s SK.MI
31Essa:i:s to car.nkgie
ustin, Texas, rov. 2o. A shower of
mcenoiua ad ccjil luuav uv iriH van-
PBOTQCQLTAKENTOCAHfiflNZA;
BOTH MM 1ST RATI FY IT
Pani Starts for Mexico and Lane Takes Document to
President Wilson; Plan for Withdrawing Forces of;
Gen. Pershing and for Patrolling Border is Pro.-
vided; Lane Explains IT. S. Government Policy.
BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
j TUiNTIC CITY, N. J-Nov. 25.
L Alberto J. Pani, a member of the
Mexican commission, which has
been: discussing border control matters
with the American commission here. Is
ioday? In New York whence he will
start on Monday for Queretaro. Mex
ico, to lay before Gen. Carranza, the
protocol signed by the American and
Mexican commissioners Friday. The
protocol, to be effective, must be rati
fied by both the United States and
Mexico. Secretary of the Interior lane
is on his way to Washington to lay
the protocol before president Wilson
for his approval.
If the Drotocol is ratified by the
two governments, the commission will j
,nnvTM erireniber- S to resume ithe.
dlscussIon'-Sof other questions affecJJpg'
the twolcountries, especially those re
lated to the protection of life and
property of Americans and other for
eigners in Mexico. If ratification by
either government is withheld.- the,
work of the taraference will be 'declared
at an end.
?C."Tk. A,n.A ..i,,. e !.
commission will be heia was not de- here. Mr- and Mrs. 3gnaclo Bonillas '",ar1-- The-erash oCj-incaSefar aay
termined when the conference was: fin. I and.taelr daughters, wnt leave. forsNerw. preafc'markedrthe oneiiln'?-t.'t.x.kI-
lshed. The question was Jaft to- seere;
taryjof state) Lansing ana amnassaaosi
aeeisnaie rreaunao.
Xf?5 Details of Jtsveement.
iffoilowlng Is "a fcaTaphrase f pia
agreement to which the last signature
was., affixed at J,a uckxws -axioaj: jw,
erno'on: First The American troops now In
Chihuahua shall be withdrawn within
40 days from the approval of the pro
tocol by the respective governments,
provided that within, that time the con
ditions in that part of Mexico have not
become such as to endanger the Amer
ican border. In such event the time
shall be extended.
Second The American army shall
patrol the American side of the border
and the Mexican army the Mexican
side, but this shall not preclude co
operation between the two forces to
-preserve peace upon the border.
Third It shall be left to the com
manding officers of the armies on the
border of both nations to enter Into
such arrangements of cooperation in
operations against bandits whenever It
is possible.
"Pursuit Aeros Border.
The right of the American govern
ment to send troops across the border
in pursuit of bandits was not Jncor
porated in the protocol but was made
the subject of a supplemental mem
orandum. The Mexicans had contended
earnestly against signing any agree
ment in which they appeared to sanc
tion what they termed the violation
of their national territory. It was th
agreement of the Americans finally, to
content themselves with stating ,-the
attitude of the United States In asep
arate memorandum that induced the
Mexicans to sign the agreement
It became known Friday that the
first request of the Mexicans for a
recess was made several days' ago. They
desired to submit to Gen. Carranza all
the facts in the case and to obtain
from him advice as to which course
they should take. The Americans op-
posea sucn action, contending tnat fur
ther delay was inadvisable. Thursday
the insistence of the Mexicans resulted
in a consideration of the suggestion
and Friday the discussion was resumed
with all members of the commission
present.
Mexicans Induced to Sign. ,
The Mexicans were not yet willing
to slgn but the Americans succeeded
in convincing them that inasmuch as
the correspondence which had led to
the creation of the commission pro
vided for the submission of the agree
ment to their respective goternments
for approval, valuable time could be
saved by taking the signed protocol to
Carranza.
The clause providing for the with
drawal of Gen. J J. Pershing's forces
states that should the bandits in Chi
huahua appear near the border In such
force as to prove a menace, the Amer
ican troops, acting Independently or in
conjunction witn tne Mexican torces,
may disperse them. In such case the
forward to occupy tne territory evacu
ated. The disposition of the Mexican
troops shall be left to the Mexican
commander. Gen. Pershing is to have
charge of the plan of withdrawal and
the right to use the railroad to Juarez
for the transportation of his troops and
the movement of his supplies, if he
desires.
Mexican Infclnted ou Limitations.
The Mexicans contended earnestly
for the Incorporation in the protocol
of a clause providing that if troops
were sent across the line in pursuit
of bandits they should be moied only
to certain distances: that they should
comprise only certain arms of service
and include only a specified number
of men: that they should be kept in
the country only a certain time and
that they must be moved only In cer
tain regions. To all these arguments
the Americans were firm in their in
sistence that there must be no limita
tions. Neutral Zone Plan Rejected.
The article providing for the mili
tary control of the border was con
densed from elaborate and intricate
plans whose consideration has taken
much of the time of the commission.
The Mexican-, have been insistent that i
there should be defined a neutral zone;
In which the armies of the two gov
ernments mignt ODerate. out since con
sideration of that point invariable.
brought the commissioners back to the);
question of limited pursuit. It was def-J
miieiy rejected oy me Americana as
was the suggestion for cooperation !&
which American troops might find
memseives commanded by Mexican of
ficers. Throughout the conference- that be
gan on September , the Mexicans have
juBisieu ure iirsi cniel ana his orriclal
family would not agree to any viola
tion of Mexican territory. If the agree
ment Is ratified there will begin a
Ions consideration of the remaining
uwuuiw iuai. uie American govern
ment reg.rds as vital to the full re
storation of friendly relations with
Mexico. These include taxes, threats
to confiscate property and sanltarv
conditions and claims. Such problems
aid CL-arcm n-v -AmpnMn. am aa.an
tlally basic and wwuarr tn n nn.
Lderstandlng.
wunin a. few minutes after the pro-
tpcol was signed the exodus, of commls-
sioners and attaches began. All ih
American commissioners were on drains
ruK aero oeiore aarK ana Mr. pani
was on hi wav bv nlfpfir -f, ri
U.7 ZTj'ZSii T"i ZJ.,,"!?, :S?-""
W.t ftn hi v K., ..I. , n.i
J lork and perhaps Boston in, a fewdays
Ma -a-uis vaDrexa. chairman 'of the -
jpiiiicvinniis5on, wii? spend his
SStfeSS?1 Kevw or&rlc and
3K?hJ?5r . .p Pani expects to ar-
rive at Queretaro within six days, go
ing by Wav Of St. T.onl Snn Jntnni. '
and. Laredo, .m.-
Lane Approve of Carranza.
After the protocol was signed, sec- '
IF1?1" .Lao. Issued a statement de
fining the policy of the United States
In general toward Mexico. H tato.l
that he believed Gen. Carranza a stronir
man and that he should be given a I ra,ThIrd Day's Attack Surprise,
full chance" adding that "Mexico will ; Villas attack Saturday was rathe
JH5r. "li51,' without our help or a surprise, for a message from Gen
W,J ,l- Tnis ,s her choice." j Trevino, received late Friday de-
The statement follows, tn part: I scribed the bandits as completely dls-
.."'fj1 P?y "J 'he United States. ' organized and fleeing In all directions
with reference to Mexico, is not to be frn Chihuahua City, with de facte
stated in a phrase or in any protocol sovernment cavalry in pursuit.
or series of protocols. We are to come i enrnn., nrn.r. win j
yut of Mexico Just as soon as we can . Jl V 5.nc,rr" K,I,ed
'decently anj in order" and because we ' , InS?ssf fr.om G,en- Trevino to Mex
have other use for our troops who are -"?n officials Saturday gave the names
there. But this is only a beginning of some ?f tbe Carranza officers killed
of a policy which will make a Mexico ' V .7ioun2.t? ia ,he ttTst two days of
that we can live with. I battle. They are.
Border Trouble. Oniv Srontom.. I SeP- 1L GaaOara. killed.
mmMmmmm
iervexUVfnsrweors1 Kll"
StVJnt't'.'rJ.'d.,1- StrnSe" P"S'ble ' cWJSptUa.e,
Revolution Sliwt ot Mean Vnarchv ?Z1 L?f tn Dor1r " the engine an
"We will heln hw tn t" i!I tj ""f caT returned here at 2 SO a. tt
shapV if shehcanhundte0rs!aendnthkfwe Lsald"! ?1S " V,10
mean to be our friend. The world Jn ,hi.a ? . '"JJ?8 no significance
wants a new Mexico whrVth Vi , th,s as the railroad was short Oi
and ignorant will have a better oh,Pn ' 'Promotives and the train returned t .
To- this wenT the worid Is wit t TlJe teraiinal here to get addlUonat c.s
revolution! .The wlrWh no, Empathy ?Lb3l ?r Ch,ihnthUa C,t.!" leaT,ns
with exploiters, but It haYCTt resr.ee t he remainder of the equipment a'
for rights that are vested anT we shall ' JIoctel!uraa " " morning in ord
go along with the S in n..t,nr to Prevent making the trip from Moite-
mean anarchy st not i 1 ilia bandits were reported to be t ,
'Cafra'nza's'aVt SLTh 1 MtJSlHf ft ".SSrfrgW
HIsr?ernowsSthatSandanhis fS SwI Whtn..0,e traJn ' that carrld at
ers admire him to a St" of'eSSe. SS",'" a"d "T!XJ?- Trevln0'
' is ine man to oe given a full chance
onrt n.- eh, ii n.i,.ij u r. u" - .
slhle ne tho .l.itt. .i .. . .;-
ii., . ... mkuw.m .tin, n nir ia sen- 1
other nations. Mexico will either do ' J.'iVi. thfu Mex'can 'eral wire south
right without our help or with Tit? This r,Y,Ua AhBmaV reports of the battle
is her choice Friday were suddenly cut off It was
The purpose for which this com- ! u?OBIlw?. the "wire trouble' was
mission was formed was to exert one i nt considered serious A report C
last effort toward making Mexico a Daniyts cutting the telegraph lines
possible neighbor under tho Constltu- i nortb ot Chihuahua City was denied
tionalist government. We- do not wish I r tne Carranza government,
to be forced into intervention or any I Should it develop the federal wire
other course until this opportunity has 1 was CBt by the bandit forees operat
been exhausted To thl on, . ... ' ing around Chihuahua Citv tht
pass from the border matters of Irrita- would indicate an attack upon the city
tion and concern to conditions in Mex- Irom the north. The fact that the tele
Ico which affect the lives and prop-' sraph line had been working con
erty of our nationals. These must be stantly since the attack opened Thurs
made secure, as secure as is possible day morning was taken- In Juarez as
in a country where among the masses Proof that the Villa attacks had been
of the people, there Is a deep distrust i confined to the south, west and east
of us. Then we ask that, with our help ' of the state capltal and that the ban
or without It, Mexico feed herself and ! Sits who were formerly operating along
drive out disease. There will be lit- the Mexican Central railroad were re
tle banditry if Mexico gets to work. J called to participate in the general at-
... AI! "fx,eo L sufferlnr. tack, as trains had not been stopped
"The miseries of Mexico must be as- and the telegraph lines had remainet
suaged. Her poor, naked, starving, dy- intact.
Ing peons call out for help. They do -
Tr cln'thofSe8raplop1traraeI,ac?SaV?nlMART1NEZ BECOMES ATTORNEY
the war. but all are suffering- w , RFNFRAI. OP rUIHAUTTA. ctitp
cannot maintain nnr self ,, .... x-
true to the highest dictates of humanity
and see these people suffer as they do
wCTuiF ,. .,; uua mat nas come
from civil war.
"This country is pacific but is not
pacifist. It will fight willingly when
it can fight for something worth while
and must fight. It is our business to
make the occasion impossible, to raako
the duty unnecessary if this may be."
Let the Boy Earn His
Way Into the Y. M. C. A.'
THRIFT and industry should be encouraged in the early life of tie boys.
If they haien't it, you can culture it.
Xo bettor way can be found to develop industry intbe boy than to
let mm work for or earn something he desires.
. J'T.1'1 raso IIera'J offers a job to any boy who wants a nteabershiti m
.-.- -. -.. .... .. ,..,(,t iui ii .a tail
Herald, will get the job.
nnrnn un
rntoolnb
ATTACK
Repulse Is Most Severe. Of
The Series f, Carranza
Officials Assert.
GEN. GANDARA IS
AMONG THE SLAIN
Bandits. Mae Desperate Ef
forts to Penetrate to the
Heart of it)e City.
I :
I TjAACISCO VHXA and. his forces
r" resumed the attack on- Chihuahua
-1- city. Hex. at i m.v c,.i
.Tj, - - oclock Saturday
oa&ma were repulsed. accordln
'" ""icxaiaispatches frtrn Chihuahua
iT- . - viuiuuya
ji .- T -- T
"-r received by Carranxa-efHrG.? c
' Say- of' battI-J&a3""t. ' "
' 35?1" -v
'w" vne rejraiss wav
even more decisive than those. -of -Fjr
day ano-ThTMa---,....-
driven clear of the suburbs after -des
perate efforts to penetrate to the hear
of the city and take It by storm.
After Preliminary sklrmishlnir
fighting- developed Into a general as
sauit. Heavy losses are M tn h
been Inflicted on the hanr!lt
. if, , r. 1 .
Telegraph service Int
Telegraph service Interrupted.
I Uecause of interruptions in the ser
wn. OiHIG
Notification of his appointment as a
torney general of the state of Chihua
hua was received Saturday morning b"
Lie. Rafael D. Martinez, district Judges
at Juarez. "
Judge Martinez will assume his new
duties at Chihuahua City early In De
cember. He will be succeeded at Juarez
by Lie. Abelardo Medina y Diaz, of
(Continued on Page 2, Column. .
on ;. rru. cud
circulation manager of The
They Lea
