0Hto STATE
UNIVERSITY
flOV 2 81916
LIBRARY
u,
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
m v
f-'f"'"-
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, NOVEMBER 25, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 32
One Dollar a Year
Kroger, the Enemy of Labor
Has Made a Fortune Out of Their Patronage of His Grocery Stores. Now He is Their
Druggist, By Controlling the Dow Drug Company. Still He Will Not Pay Living
Wages or Give Good Working Conditions to the Unfortunates Who Toil For Him While
He Loafs in Florida.
Mr. Kroner, please answer.
How do ou expect the clerks wlio
work for ou at $l!i a week to support
a family at the present price of food
stuffs as sold by ou in jour HM stores'
How do vou expect a girl clerk, at fi
(who takes the place of a man at $10),
to pay her room rent and cat at the
prices j on sell groceries?
Stofr mid think!
'I hesc sbves are forced to toil from
ten to fifteen hours a day for hardh
enough to keep body and soul together,
and are naturally dissatisfied.
In these da.vs of good pa and the
eight-hour day, it seems like going a
step back to encourage a man' with votir
patronage who has so little considera
tion for those who work for him
Hvcr thing that Kroger ever touched
became ?. labor-crushing dcice. I he ,
street car men quit patroni.ing him long I
ago, and so have other labor organiza
tions ; and it the general public under
stood the conditions they might take
their patronage where they do not have
to give ou tin pans to sell you gro
cei ps. - -.-
Kroger, whom we understood came
from the working classes himself,
should stop and think that the gods
have been good to him and in turn
he should try to help the unfortunates
who are forced to work for him, by
making their burden as light as possi
ble. The clerks are helpless, but the dm
ers belong to the teamsters' union and
are demanding better conditions and
more money. At present they work
12 to 13 hours a day and receive from
$!) to $1(1 per week and they deserve the
support of every housewife in Cinciu
uati.
The fact that a couple of business
agents were hot-headed and became
involved with the police, because they
wanted to get even with Kroger should
not cut any figure with the big. broad
principle of what is right and iust.
The drivers are underpaid and over
worked.
When the Dow Drug Co. took over
the business of Miss Cora Dow one of
the first things they did was to re
duce the wages of the cigar clerks and
raise the pi ice of cigarettes.
Kroger's clerks are now telling ciis
lomcrs that they will give them one dol
lar's worth of goods for '.): cents pro
viding they carry it home themselves,
which shows that Kroger will give up
5 per cent of his business before he will
hire a few extra drivers or allow his
present drivers a few hours at home
with their families
Kroger is a philanthropist, and all
union men should give him their money
to keep in the Provident Hank, except
what they spend in the Dow Drug Co
or his grocery stores, and, if they are
lucky, they get enough of his tiading
.stamps to secure a coffin.
SKTTMOI) 275 IMKIM'THS.
Baltimore. In an address to the an
nual convention of the American Feder
ation of Labor, William li. Wilson, e
.secrctary of the United Mine Woikers'
union and the present scctetary of la
bor, sa'd that of the IIOO disputes be
tween laborers and capitalist, that had
come before his department, !iT." have
been adjusted in a manner satisfactorily
to both sides and before a strike had
been i cached.
"The greatest of all the functions of
the department of labor," he said, "is
that of having the hopes, aspirations and
philosophy of the wage-workers of our
country come into the councils of the
president of the United States"
Secretary Wilson made it clear to the
delegates that he is the same old rugged
trade unionist as of yoie, and has not
wavered in his faith in organized labor
because he happens to be a member of
the president's official family He saiil
lie was present "for the purpose of
showing which side he is on "
The Staff
M&UKmfvil Jh7MMM -5lll
i HHHHL , flM
i '
CtCTCliUU! i'T V j
I
i,o.(i woiiKi.NU norits
Blamed Ity Witness For Intemper
ance Among Switchmen.
Xcvv York, N'ov. Hi. Long woiking
hours of switchmen emplo.ved in the
Buffalo yards of the Xcw York Central
are responsible to a large extent for in
temperance among the men, according
to F. L. Kggleston, jard conductor, who
resumed his testimoii todaj before the
Board of Aihitration appointed to settle
the controversy between .Villi) men of
the switchmen's union and i:i railroads.
Fggleslon declared in his opinion
many of the switchmen arc led to drink
through fatigue, or because the do not
get the recreation thej might enjoy with
shorter hours, and thus seek sociability
in saloons, lie said an eight-hour day
would decrease the evil.
George Baxter, of Scranton, a switch
man for the Delaware, Lackawanna &
Western Raihoad, asset ted few of the
men in the Scranton yard make over
time. They usuallv finish work in 10
hours, he said and only in exceptional
cases is there overtime. Baxter said the
eight-hour period would be woikable if
certain changes were made.
The hearing will be continued tomorrow
of Life
' '
NATIONAL COMMITTEE
Krred in tin Conduct of the Ohio
Campaign.
The Republican National Committee
proved helpless in the face of these
conditions. Now here was the Repub
lican campaign more feebly managed
than' in Ohio. The Republican man
agers started to send Roosevelt into
Ohio and then suddenly sidetracked
bun from fear of angering the Gvrman
Ameriean Democrats. They started out
to campaign against the Adamsoii law
and then abandoned the argument be
cause all but one Republican congress
man in the State voted for the bill.
The State Committee ignored Hughes
almost completely. Derrick and Willis
"pussyfooted" through the campaign
boosting themselves and treating the
Hughes candidacy as an unmentionable
topic of conversation. Their friends
thought they would "pull through"
even if "poor Hughes" should lose the
State. Both Heriick and Willis were
defeated. The Progressives were dis
gruntled by their treatment by Herrick,
Willis, I larding and other old-line Re
publicans, and this contributed to the
general disorganization of the opposi
tion to Wilson.
The Building Trades Council
Will Strike All Jobs Now Under Construction bv Richard
1
Meiken Until He Lives Up to His Agreement. Jos.
Kennedy, Boss Painter, Announces That He Will Sign
Up With Painters Union Before January First.
Regular Meeting Largely
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order by
President Jos. Cullcu.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted
A communication from the Ohio
State Building Trades Council, stating
that the Ohio Blower Company, of
Cleveland, had been put on the "We
Don't Patronize List," was read and
concurred in.
rMimttos 'of!ie Board of 'TUisliiess'
Agents vvps read and concurred in. ,
The business agent read his report,
in which he stated that Joseph Ken
nedv, the boss painter, had agreed to
sign up with the Painters' District
Council and use union men exclusive!
before the first of January.
Bro. Phil Fischer announced that he
ami Bro. Tweedy, of the Plumber,
were on ?. committee to visit Columbus
next Monda.v in an effort to have the
State Civil Service Commission adopt
the union scale of wages. Fischer pre
sented the proposition in the form of a
I resolution, ami it was indorsed unaiu-
moiisl
Joseph . Cullcu, president of the
Council, was selected to represent the
Council at the meeting with the State
KILX.MK.V KKiaSIC "KAISK"
or lO IVrOnl Bemuse ol' "Strings"
Attached To It.
Fast Liverpool. Ohio. The Kiln
nien's Union, of the National Broth
erhood of Operative Potters, have noti
fied the officers of the United States
Potters' ssociation they would not
accept the recent advance of 10 per cent
in wages because it was attended by
certain condition- which the union
designated as "strings."
The association decided to adhere to
the. agreement, and it was said the kiln
men would answer with the customary
two weeks' strike notice.
The advance was given in the Rope
of increasing efficiency in the kiln sheds,
one provision being that men who neg
lected their work and by unnecessary
absence reduced the capacity of the
plant should not share in the advance
for the two weeks' period affected by
their offense. A strike of kilniuen
would affect all the general ware pot
teries in Hastern Ohio. West Virginia
and Western Pennsylvania.
CO.MIMOXSATIOX KFFl'SICK.
Harrisburg, Pa. The State Compen
sation Board, in a decision by Com
missioner Leech, in the case of Moore
City against William Henderson & Co.,
Philadelphia, refuses to allow a claim,
and makes the following ruling:
"An employe injured on the premises
occupied by or under the control of the
employer during the lunch hour, or
when on his way home, or at any time
or place when not actually engaged in
furthering the employer's business or
affairs, is not entitled to compensation,
unless the accident was caused by the
condition of the premises or the opera
tion of the employer's business
Attended.
Civil Service Commission Fischer and
Frank Twcedie will represent the Ohio
State Association of the United sso
ciation of Steamfittcrs and Helpers at
the session.
President Cullen said emploes of citv
institutions throughout the State, b or
dinances passed by City Council, are
paid union wages, and organized labor
was desirous that the State do like
wise. '.'Wq arc not requesting union men be
emplo.ved, but"'ve think the wage paid
should be equal to or more than the
union sale," he added.
All trades reported business brisk
Richard Meiken, a member of the
Building Kmplo.vers' Association, who
have a working agreement with the
Building Trades Council, has repeatedl.v
broken his obligation by having bums
and sc?bs do work wherever he can
The Council adopted a resolution in
structing the Board of Business gents
to strike the Bethcsda Hospital, the
Scarlet Oaks, the lliumefeld building,
and all other jobs now under course of
construction b Meiken, until he lives
up to his agreement with the Council
and the other contractors in Cincinnati
There being no other business, the
meeting adjourned
MAY STRUCK IX TIIKKH STATICS
Potters Will Xot Accept Terms of
Operatives.
Hast Liverpool, O., Xov. 10 The
kilnmen's union of the National Broth
erhood of Operative Potters toda.v no
tified the officers of the United States
Potters' Association that they would not
accept the recent advance of 10 per cent
in wages because it was attended bv cer
tain conditions, which the union desig
nated as "strings " The association de
tided to adhere to the agreement and it
was said the kilnmen would answer with
the customary two week's strike notice
The advance was given in the hope of
increasing efficiency in the kiln sheds
one provision being that men who neg
lected their work and by unuecessarv
absence reduced the capacitv of the
plant, should not share in the advance
for the two weeks' period affected b.v
their offense. A strike of kilnmen would
affect all the general ware potteries m
Hastern Ohio, West Virginia and est
em Pennsylvania.
WAOH BOOST AXXOIW'CKI).
, Providence. R. 1. Cotton manuiact
urers throughout the State, with a few
exceptions, have announced a wage ad
vancc averaging 10 per cent 1 Inrtv
thousand operatives will be affected bv
tlie increase, which becomes effectivt.
December 4. The mills are now paying
the highest wages in the histor of the
iudustrv in this State.
WON Til KM! DK.MAXDS.
Jersey City, X. J. The "strike and
win" slogan " with which S00 emploes
of the Crucible Steel Companv walked
out prevailed against the corporation's
efforts to break the strike. In three da.s
they returned to work, having gained
their demand for 10 per cent more wag-
1 es and the removal of an objectionable
foreman
