ryYTV w WT VTVarTV' m
LiAiAiAlAIAlAAAlAIAii
THE BUGLES ARE SOUNDING! THE BATTLE IS ON!
Men and Women of The Menace Firing Line in J Member, of the Free Prew Defentc Ijpue. the plen
did victories achieved in many place at the bit election are glowing promise of the nation-wide tktory that will
be our four years hence, if w e consecrate our live to this pteat cause, and unite, crjj",tzs, eJutate, a J tt!el!t$rnt!t
frtittentij anJ earnestly artiste from today until the poll close four ) ear from now.
The Menace wishes to hear from ever)' patriot who is ready to unite ia a m'rhty f -.t-jrj m?e:eit j njtkn
xcUe tducat'nr.at catrtfaien th?.t shall appeal to the rrann and mt the fjsthnt, and that shall lone eery thinking
American to ee and know the fundamental issues inulved in this great struggle to preserve fundamental de
mocracy from Roman Catholic autocracy.
XXXXXXXXXJXXCO v
This It Number 292
EIMONACE
NovoanWer 2, lftl
Awe, MIimiH
THK ROMAN CATHOLIC POLITICAL MACHINH: Till- DiiADLII-ST .M KNACK TO FRKK INSTITUTIONS AND LIBKRTY!
ts I i
ft
fJ
3
T01V1 WATSON'S PERSECUTION
TO BE RESUMED NEXT MONDAY
Eminent Publicist and Enemy of Vice, Immorality and Roman
Intrigue, Who Was Indicted for Publishing Portions of Rome's
Approved Theology in Latin Prepares to Meet Further Per
secution on Charge of Obscenity
SIMILAR I!IDICTMENTwAS FORMERLY QUASHED
But Rome Went Into Action and Second Indictment )Vas Secured on Prac
tically Same ChargesOne Mistrial Has Been Had On Second Indictment
With Ten Jurors Standing for AcquittalCatholic Federation Boasted it
Was Responsible for the Prosecution
X a few short dsvt one of It riot, a mlinUr, anl a gentleman
Amprira'i ninyt diinpiiMicl! in tin bett anl truest menning of
TI
id
ml most devoted patriots
will a?ain appear ia court t
defend himself apain.t the rrri.f'
int persecutinn cf the L'omiih In
quiuiion. Tlio latest, and let us
hope the last, trial of Tlio. K. Wat
aon, on the trumped-up charge of
obscenity, is act for Not. 27.
For more than five years Home's
ravenous wolves have pursued this
man with a hatred intensified hv
repeated defeats and exposures. All
the maliec of Home's njrents and
dupes, which wss concentrated upon
Thk M i:ai E 1cm than a year ajro.
is now turned apainst this Rrilctl
veteran of (Jeorjria, this statesman,
historian and scholar whom Home
hates and fears more than any other
ono man on earth.
At the moment a million sympa
thetic eyes are scanning these line
the intended victim of Home's rape
ia quietly and gently busy, prepar
ing to meet tho renewed onslaught
of a powerful and relentless enemy.
You men and women, who stood
gallantly by The Mfvack in it
hours of greatest need know well
who that enemy is. You have seen
that implacable foe of progress show
.
its fanga many times in recent years.
Down at the little hamlet of
Thomson, Ua. "Tom" Watson, with
the snows of sixty winters upon his
head and the fire of invincible cour
age in his heart- is once more organ
izing his defense agitinst Komitdi
calumny and persecution. He is
getting ready to fujht your lottlf,
and to win another victory for free
dom if such a victory is possible.
We regard that victory as not
only possible, but as more than
probable. When such a sham as the
eo-called Roman Catholic church
meets an honest man like Watson
in the presence of an American jury,
bluster, unlimited wealth, and ar
rogant pride suffer a sweeping dis
count. The intellectual strength
and moral uprightness of tfie de
fendant will count for more than n
horde of Jesuits, skilled though
j they are in the mesmeric tricks of
I the black art
If But you can help. You can make
f fht load easier for the patriot who
. bears it all upon his tired
V llders. Give him a word of cn-
fSgcmcnt. Drop him a line just
A sy that you are with him in
V though perhaps many miles
1 in person, licmimi him of
i pinions wno Know ana leel the
, Talue of his work. Cire him the in-
fpiration he would feel if you were
1 j throb of this michty movement for
f .-liis comfort in affliction and for the
!7 fortifying of his mighty spirit. You
feel like doing this, -fa do it that re
, eU may rejoice in the victory il trill
i turtly help to tnn.
Tut yourself for a moment . in
Wataon a place, and realize, as you
1 ; must, how he must feci. Here is a
(gentleman of genuine refinement: a
V . - V,... I.'i. u l.
iienda him to tho best people of
.Julian. a . v l V4 muri lev lie
las served his state and his coun
try with distinction and success in
the rreatest legislative bodv of th
world. His home life is so far above
reproach that an intimation to the
contrary would awaken the resent
ment of erery neighbor and fellow
citizen. lie is clean, wholesome and
'a militant warrior against Tice im-
morality and all that polute and
r corrupt old and young alite A pa-1
And this man is charged
with-ihscviiity.
The mountain clearly labored
to bring forth a mouse when the
filthy mind of Home's Inquisitors
finally fixed upon this cowardly
calumny as their chosen weapon.
Obscenity from such a man as Thcs.
K. Watson? It would lie ridiculous
were it not so vile. Watson may lie
aggressive; he n;ay Ik? vigorous, and
he may bo austere to roughness in
his treatment of rascality ami im
morality; lf to link obcrniti v. ilh
hi mum is tnoiijh to damn the oc
cu.ifr through time and all ttfrnihj.
And- believe me, Watson feels it.
This K)ioncd arrow wounds most
those who least deserve it Such
venom is most virulent to innocence.
Like the blow of a rattlesnake- this
attack from cover strikes deeper
than anything an artful enemy
coulJ deviM'. None know better
than Home the otTrn t to the victim
of such a wound to moral pride. If
just judgment for malicious prose
cution were rendered against th
papal system for this injury, there
is not enough wealth in the coffers
and in the property of this world
wide corporation to compensate thii-
! H po"' for hst the agents of the
Ififln&l tfelnm kafii mftiAiul amnn K .
'I,aPal .vstom have ""icted upon him
But Home doesn't care. Rome ii
stmggling desperately to escape just
censure; and cares not whom it may
wound or how. Watson is the sole
remaining victim of the pope's de
stroying agents in America. The
rest have escajed or have been de
stroyed. Too many have suffered
the fate of William Black; and n
few have come through the ordeal.
It remains to lie men whether thi
fsriial prosecution of Thos. K
Watson can go on for years to come
or whether it is to bo fully and
finally ended at the coming trial.
The history of this persecution
abounds with instructive facts and
incidents. When Mr. Watson took
up the defense of American insti
tutions and American morals against
the aggressive inroads of popery
Rome's fir.-t reply was a boycott
against his publications. Had he
not been made of sterner stuff thai'
the average publisher, this stroki
from Rome's favorite and most ef
fective weapon would have silence"'
him; but Rome misjudged the tern
per of its adversary.
Like Martin Luther, and the vcr
few in centuries who have dared de
fy thia arrogant power, Watson be
gan to fight only when he realized
by personal experience the real na
ture of the thing he had irritated
But Watson fought fair from the
beginning. All he did and all he
said was .put forth in plain black
and white for the world to see anil
pass upon. So far as he was con
cerned, there was no hiding behind
a district attorney, no attempt to
induce government to so much as
punish the boycotters of his legiti
mate business.
Like one armed in a just cause
he came out into the open to take his
own part and let the people judgv
between him and his opponent
Hut Home dot not fight that ua,
Its pretense cannot be mainlaine-'
by appeal to factt and calm judg
ment. Frightened st the inevitable
outcome of free and open discussion
it rushed to the politicians who wen
beholden to the papist vote, and de
manded that all auch publications
be barred from the mails. Our
readers are too familiar with all
that to repeat it here.
But when the postoffice department
cat h trnn
and congress both
refused to do
Heme's Lidding,
the next thing wa
a fifty-tliotihand-dollar
appropria
tion by the
Knights of Co-
IlltliliUS, plus ho
one knows how
murh, for the
pretended purNtM
j'f cumbatUiig "religious prejudice."
inc world now knows how the an-
nouniemcnt of this appropriation
was hut part of the declaration that
court pnx-eedmgs had already ix-cn
brought against a certain anti-papal
publn ation.
Homo had gono to the courts to
get what could not be obtained by
other means already tried. It was
a failure so far as Tiik Mf.vacr is
concerned ; ond it has been a failure
so f-r as Mr. Watson is concerned,
with ti e exception that at the form
er trial there were two jurors who
voted for conviction, thus nuking
another trial possible.
As long ago as June 1, 1912. sc
ion was brought against Mr. Wat
on; and the pupist press was jubi
unt in anticipation of what it hoped
WHO WAS MISLED, MACE OR COUNCIL?
Prediction That Hierarchy Wanted McArthur Proves Correct Papal Ticket
Appeared After Council Had Been Caught Off Guard and Had
Opposed Lafferty While Telling Menace Readers Through
the Local Press That -We Had Been Misled
1STAKF.S will bspprn, rrn in
hii oi ail rara auu rauiino, auu
THK MtNAct a well aa any
ollirr force or iniliviitnal that iin
(lrnakra to viKilantlv push a vii
orout motrmrnt of any uniinual ropor
lion baa inaJe ila quota of errota.
As to tba elrctioa artivitii-a in Port
land, Orrgim, however, a with to di
laini any thare in th fatal ni intake
hnb tlionh ilnoo ia all probability
ri!h tho lirat of iutt-Dts and purpoara,
iindouble-lly miaiod thounandi of patnota
mfamiliar with the true rondiliont, and
bird waa nothing more or Iraa than the
me move Rom mot Jwircd to to ma'lc
That miatake waa the ont that rplit tlw
i nt not 'a vote in l'ortland aud gave to
JoArtbur a arat in rongn-aa for tin? neit
.wo jeara, while it Srllod defeat lor
ifferty, the brat man to defiantly ami
uly throw the gauntlet ia the fac of
(one and the pupal contingent. We atoinJ
ociiksI of having Imh-o nualrad and had
wea warned that we were arbitrarily giv
ing too murh advire ia the latter days
of the campaign. We were told that
Mr. McArthur had quietly pledged his
upport of the Lindbergh resolution and
nanjr other things were whispered which
indicated that JeauitiraJ tricks had been
m ployed to mialead those ia charge of
nd influencing the Council, by aome
orce too au title and cunning to be read
ly diarerned by them. We were not in
illed by a motive to arbitrarily adviat
or to dictate to our readers what to o,
'at rather desired to aave the patriot's
from the folly of the Council' judg
ment, when in Mckacc No. 289 we
rotated out tar not him g ramld pUase
Komt as murh at f ' aaeil Is (cere
Ijifferlj' warn of of Bullrttn So. t.
We also pointed out, that, if for no other
lewaon, Home desired the election of Mc
Arthur becauee it would mean the de
feat of the firat man to make the Lin J
'rgh reeolutioa port .on of hia plat
orm.
We felt that the patriotic force, e
ieially thoa intimately identified with
aid ardent friend of the Free Preta De
fence League aad Th Mt xaca owed aa
lirlJed aliegiaace to the man who had
tearleaaly aad openly pledged himaelf to
aupport the League ia ita effot to ob
Uia iareatigmtioa of political Bona a ism
on the charge aa contained ia the reso
lution -introduced into rongreaa by Mr.
Lindbergh. We weald hare been wo th
ing more or leea than traitor had we
failed to eaampioa the cans ef A. W.
Laffeny U the last aaawaa aad to the
kjH A if
HON. THOMAS E. WATSON
u
might huicn. There was delay
after delay due to one cause and
another, principally liecaue those
baik of the prosecution realized thei
d.lh.ulty of getting through with
what they had attempted. '
TI ii principal eharge was hvane
of certain lmssagi-s which the
I'ml.ini had mirynltii tram l.nmf n
theoloijiral V'vrl'.s in the oriijinnl
lAilin Inngitnie. The stuff printed
was bad enough to be sure; and the
prosecutor were o sfraid of it that
they failed to q.ioto it In their
i liar ires or in the indictment they
had tecuretl by iieuns best known
to themselres.
Considerably more than a year
after the indictment had been d
tained it was fjuakhed in ccn court
by order of Judge- Foster; hut Rome
last Jitrb after h ttsil so unqualifle.lly
rinaM oimwii on a inmn irc on mnirn
we aad en-n lcl aimb t (Tort, and on
which our must atdciit supporters
throughnut the rounttr are ei-niling
every effort to auch an eitenl as to
make the program or promotion of this
resolution not ouly all the more desir
a Me for (be league, hut necruatji at a
malttr of Ivy alt f to thrte aadnne aorl
rrt. We knew that Rome did not want the
iatcstintion. Neither did she want any
man in congres who would frnrlraslv
tand on tho floor of the house and lead
a tilit, if neril be, for the rcvilution.
We fully rca'iKKl tLat any person too
row.ir.llT to make an open iis juration oa
thr rtrt platform dmniitrd fc thf
loiiititminff of kit (fulrict is a man of
n a a killer re ia tkt prrttnt grave
crwf. l;ome ton, rralircd, if she knew
anything alKiut JtcArihur's pltdge at all
that a silent letge Carrie no conviction
and tin weight, home realited aa did we,
that in many case such pledge have
Ini-b made in an effort to get on the
'bandwagon" without making a noise
or attracting vadue notice. It ia aot un
likely that home remrmbered Mi Arthur's
attitude tow-aid re-tam forces which
were opposing the 'Kidnapping Juvenile
Court Uill (so pleasing to papal Coo
g rrt mii an Johnson and the Roman con
tingent) when that hill waa on the floor
of the bouse in the felth congress.
llo many of the -eopl who voted for
McAnhur know that be made a pledge
to the Council to aofport the Lindbergh
Resotutionf We do not KNOW that be
did. but we were told by responsible
(.art'rs claiming familiarity with the
Council 'a affairs that McArthur had
made the pledge during the t me that
effort were being made to check our
unswerving aupport of Lafferty. Such
efforts, however, only sirred to make our
coins.- mure e'eady and more careful, for
we "--re fully aware that if the pat eitic
forces of any commonwealth are going:
to allow the men who fearlessly dix-lare
themselves on measure auch a nay True
American should be glad to champion, to
go down in defeat aiwiply becauee brewj
opponent "pussy-foot ' to the back
door and make "on the quiet" pledge,
that the time will eos w coca when a can
didate cannot b fooad wh will voic hi
eeatimeate or take fearless stand. If
Uie patrioti morrmrnt ned anything it
need fearleaa eaadulate and to obtain
them it most nopport them.
' W desired to ae the patrioU w Or
i :
RECENT CAFilPAlGN RESULTS
IN MANY PATRIOTIC VICTORIES
Splendid Triumphs for American Principles Achieved in Open
Battle for Complete Restoration and Maintenance of Funda
mental Democracy of Our Republic and for the Prevention
of Further Advancement of the Papal Program
CEASELESS WAR TO DrIvTrOMEOUTOF POLITICS
l
was too furious to
l satisfied with
this just and
proper outcome.
The indictment
machine a as ngum
-. I in motion with1
he lmpcs ap'lt
" :riushing the
ootivc power.
and a second in-
j dutmcnt was w ur.-d on pnu ti. aily
the same charges but iimtc clearly
: i if,,,! ,n the Snrins of 1911.
..... .. , . , ,
Ib.s t,n,e he Ut.n text from th.
Wr,,l,,;s of lVns '''T'. "t'''
hich
was ho grievous, though it had b"en
. . -1 . . i , .
1 . . . '
'
in me iniiH tiueni ; ana i!ie ae
went to trial afti r nutnerotis dilms
on Xov. 5(5, of the same year, tin
Hec. 1, the case resulted in mistrial
due to failure of aijreemet t of the
jury. Ten f the jury were for a--qmttal
and iwo for conviction.
Tliis trial Mixed t' lirlns out
several f.u f ery th-arly which tin
crseeutor were tr)inc; to axoid oi
(Continued on I'uge 2, Column 6)
gon do f dil the patriots of Mafa-hii
wrvt. I ongrciwnian clcrt Miller a 0M-n
Man. I on sectarian appropriatiuii anil
other UK-aaun-s, though no stronger thnu
! the stand of Mr. Lafferty, gained for him
the iw.liv i.le.l supHirt nf J'ss- hiisctt
patriots and they spnred no i llort to in
sure hia election. They triumphed as
would the patriots nf I'urtlan-I had tl,r
same unswerving, clear and undhiJcd
course, been pursued.
We know that our Oregon friends de
sire to be as loyal to tbc men deserving
of their suport as the citizens ef any
other Commonwealth. Knowing this, w
lid not undertake to adviso our readers!
to do anyth.ng more thnn tbey would
have been glad to do had tbey "been as
well informed and in as advantageous a
Miition to watch operation on every sidi
as were we, and had anything like a neat
approach to giving LalTnty the snpr
to winch be was entitled been indicate,
we would not have asserted our poMtue
so strongly, but it seems that the Council
though unfamiliar with some phases ot
the rae in all probability, resented th
action of Thk Menace when in i-aue No.
" it ad vised its readers to rally to the
supMiit of l-affcrty and ass.s't Capt
IVrry in hi ecrtiona in behalf of Laf
ferty 'a election.
Those who read that article rememhei
that we warned our l'ortland readers tha
Lafferty 'a name would probably U
omitted from Bulletin Xo. S and' that
in that event, whatever tho motive of the
Council, the McArthur machine would
have succeeded ia doing just what the
Koman Catholic hierarchy most ardentlv
wished to see accomplished. Ia the face
of this fact, we a?ked our readers to drop
their business, drop everything and make
Captain Terry a office their headquarter
and enlist in a militant way for the elee
tion of the first congressional candidate
who dared to fling the gauntlet ia the
fiice of Rome, and we also stated that
oulv by thus worki g could the aims ol
Home be defeated.
When thi articl.. reached Portland.
Captain Perry, whj had offered hi co
operation in advance, had already taken
tep to comply with the request of Thi
Minacs, bat tboe who wer responsible
for the fatal mistake reseated in a
marked degree the desire of Tn Mas
act to deliver them from their own follr
They resented It ia fact, to aa najnsti
table eitent; for they further played in-
.(CoBtiane4 oa Fag- 2, Coluoa 2)
I )
Effort to Drive the Roman Octopus Out of Politics Makes Notable Progress
and Rome's Attempts to Deny Freedom of Speech, Press and AsscrrJbly
and Disregard for Constitutional Provision for Divorce of Church and
State Will Be Vigorously Opposed
II K remit election witneel
a nuruUr cf signal triumph
for tho patriotic fonts who
arc tatiiiu to trci'rve in,
Hi inlocjrifv the fundaini'iital do
in.H M. v of" our FKDKItAli t'OX
MlTl'TKlN whi.li txditiral
l'siastit-al li'otnaiiism N ojn-uly and
tivrrtly hoi'kitiR to overturn.
' This i-ar for tho first time the
tnot fonrs were aide to do in a
ituasiiro whut Itoinc ihrotiRlt her
Kiii'litit of I'uluinhii.s has Ihm n tvi
ti'itiatiruily doin for ninny ycari.
and though a y t tlie patriotic fonrs
are fur infrriur in xint of orani
atioti, in jniwer for romrrtcd ac
tion, und in financial rcsuune to
the orgnnized oncinie of our free
demticracy represent in;; t!ie Konutii
utholic political machine, yet the
.iitorie uchirved are so numerous
and so significant that tlicv sliould
jhnll w ith ciithusiitrm and fill with
ivnewed dcWmination every lover
f our free, hut iuiMri!cd, institu
tions throughout the land.
Xow, in never before. Iihh tin
:ifty-yiar ranipain of the Jesuits
ii America heen i-hallened in a
mhv that will compel full and free
liseusfion of the funilinnenhil t.
Mf tiitorcif which are as vital to
the restoration and maintenance of
our lihcral democracy as they are
fatal to the subversive aud undemoc
ratic papal Fystem.
Patriotic Triumph In Florida
Kloriila furnishes an illustration of the
result that will follow all over the coun
try when statesmen have the moral cour
age to brnu-ly stand for the fundamental
principles for ahieh Washington, Jeffer
son, Jacksiin, I. inn. In, (irant and (iar
fiYld boldly stood. Here the line of cleav
crage was clearly drawn.
At the opening of the campaign, the
Kb ..at of Columbus who had been quiet
ly gaming n controlling grip on the iVnv
ociatic marliiue nf tho tate, undertook
to eiclude from the iH-mocratic primaries
the thousands of fundamental I'cmocrati
of the atate who belonged to the sec n't
'ir'uiration that are combatting the
Knigbt or lulumbut attempt to delivei
the
republic to the p al sovereign
Tbo faithful subjecta of the pope had
found in Senator Uryan a man alter tlx ir
own hearts. To them he wan ai useful as
was ltobinson Crusoo'a man Friday to
(he ms'.x.ne.J sudor, and with Ins aid.
am! tbit of men of his ilk it was believed
'".r 'e"1'' C'n a atrangle hold on tb
Tate. 1 he infamous attempt, honeer
io eiclude from the Drnioirstic councils
ihe ts-st m.-n of the state bocauao they
Vlonged to the (iuardians of I.ilterty an.'
ther patriotic orguuuationa, met will,
signal failmr.
Angered at the defeat nf his friends
sena'or llryan look the stump, lie strong
i defended the Knights aud viciously as
sa.led the 'oiardiars. On the other ham-
iuiernor Trammel who hnd entered thr
oldest against Kei.atr liryaii, rrpro-s-nted
ihe American. The issue was
l.srly drawn.
In the race for governor thero were
several candidates, one of these, Rev.
Sidney t atte. came out boldly and flung
he gauntlet in the face of political Ro
manikin, (landing squarely for the fun
lamental democracy which is responsible
for the wonderful advance in civilisation
which ha marked nil the liberal Prote
tant Ian. la, and against which Rome has
Wkged a eeasclesa warfare. Rev. Sydney
'alia' leading opponent waa W. V. Knott
prominent Methodist, but a man fai
more acceptable to Rome and the lemo
eratie machine than tbe fearless eham
pioa and upholder of fundamental democ
racy Mr. Catta. The latter, however
wa the choice of tbe Florida electorate
at the primary but waa deprived of a
place on the iK-morratie ticket by a court
ruling.
Mr. Catta then ran on a Citizen's
tickst and was also endorsed by the Pro
hibitionists. AU tbe power of Rome, all
the power of machiu democracy, all the
power of every reactionary interest that
i working against the fundamental guar
antee of freedom for the citizens and
eatir divorc of church aad state were
marshalled ia support of Knott, while the
ratnotie order rallied to the aid of Rev.
ydney Catta. The latter waa elected by
10 000 majority. Here tha Use of die-
tiMtioa iu clMity draws. Xan the tght
wa a battle lietween the upholder of our
fundamental democracy and the apologist
for tbe pal system. The result waa a
weeping victory for the patriot, giving
them a I'nited State senator and the
governor of the commonwealth.
The Defeat of Bomaniat Bark
Another victory scarcely les inportant
was the defeat nf Hon. John liurk whu
had formerly been governor of North
Uakota, and waa often called the mot
popular man in the state." He waa one
of Ihe numerous brood of aspiring Ro
manists to receive aa immrtant govern
mental positum a a part of the Knight
of Columbua' systematic effort to man
the government with Romanists, but hi
loyalty to bis papal aore.eign waa amply
proved iu hi recent attack upon the pa
triotic press. In our edition of October
21st we tbua singled out Mr. Murk" a,
one of the prominent papist who ought
not to be elected :
Burks l an sM.ot KnlcM of Col umbo
sue Komanlst of ihs rv eunslderW to hs
iroils dinnmi to frsa nwh, frs prM
bH awmblr, and ths nHnrlplsa fovsht fo
snd Ulmad la hr Ths Mstiaca Irlsaaa. Mr.
Hurts a sltort tlm sco snsda a kittar attack
pun thasa prlnrliilrc. Tharafor r il
l eslna Aatrtni a sarvlr to Mr.
Murk in the rank o( (how who "also ran
llurke and hia friend cultivated the
Kepiiblicana almost a ardently ae they
did tho Democrats. All influence possi
ble were brought to bear in the attempt
to elect him to the t'uited States senate,
but Thk MtA'Aft warning wa heeded,
and though President Wilson carried
North Dakota Mr. llurke fell outaide tho
breastwork.
Illinois' Fine Record
In Hlinoi tho Guardian of Liberty
were letter organised than in mutt states
and they contributed an important er.
ice to the cause of free institution b
conducting a thorough investigation of
the candidates and making a report on the
ame. Tlta Urxna published the Guar
diana' list in the issue before the election
and thia brought It before the attention of
the patriots throughout the atate. A a
reult of this active and co-operative cam
paign about 70 jw-rcent of the candidate
endorsed by the Guardian were Ciected,
and when it ia rememliered that these
endorsements embraced randidatea oa all
tickets, the percentage cf those elected
s otrcmety large. In a letter to u the
Slate Recorder, Mr. Abrams, Kivinga re
port of tbe result of tbe election, writes:
We all fl vary innus to think that
",r weeuilul. hut raiu that ths
l.lsndid strlorr lnd would not hava baaa
wMibl vara it not for lit aasisiaae ra
lvt fmro Tho Monaco.
Tho Iso olsrtioa siunhsrs Issusd f llnrhaj
hirs In. this stale (or tha patriot Ml poupl.
..ne livo Tho Monaco.
lius aiortioa asoro than orr brines so a
orr forriblr (ho sooouity of haiina a pow.
rful national orssn swb aa Th Monaca to
proad tho irusial ef patrlntlara. Wo maal
II mafco a systomatle tllort to Ineroaaa tha
Irrulatlua from mom oa as that Roma will
iovr aeain attempt to "make A tunica
SI nolle. "
In bohslf if tho Ststo Court of MsmfconM
r tho ;uardians of Liberty In taa Mats (
'llinol. I want to ravond oar pmfoana thsaks
'or jriiue bo1 la tho rsront fight.
In the city of Chicago where official
Humanism bp Uen offensively ia eri-
li-uce durieg recent vears, especially ia
tho attempted emasculation of the publi
h'sd system, the result of tbo election
wa most significant and encouraging.
Were, out of I sen lynx raajitiofr. foe
Chicago and Cook eoasfy ony font Bo
manxttt were tlrtttd. Thia result is also)
a fitting rebuke to Rome for her mani
festation of hatred for our FKDERAli
CONSTITUTION -S guarantee, of free
dom of epeech and assembly which waa
in evidence laet March when a priest-led
mob broke tip the meeting of Dr. Slat
tcry who was spcaiin under the auspice
of the Guardians of Liberty in a Masoaie
hall in Chicago.
Governor Dunne was overwhelmingly
defeated, hi opponent receiving some
thing like 111,000 majority. Tbe result
was very largely due to the fact that th
PmteMnt lemocratie majority of II
linoia who hold to the principle of lib
eral democracy and are not ready to stir
render the government to the papal rv
tem have become alarmed and diagusted
with the war political Romanism ha
flourished under the administration oi
thia papist.
Other Papal Candidates Defeated
Other defeated Romanists who aspired
to th governorship are Thomas P.
Dwyet of Minnesota, Thomaa F. Camp
bell of Arizona, and Frederick W. Mans
field of Massachusetts. Ia fact, accord
ing to the Catholtt Ctue of Wisconsin,
the only Romanist running for go vera a
at the last election who waa auoeeaafal
was E. C DeBaca of New Mexico. From
JL
