The St. Joseph Observer
I
BTVLr
VOLUME X.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 191G
NUMBER 8
'
y
r
R
j(T '
ijnoi
I
AND IT REALLY
IS ALL OVER NOW
For Hughes Has at Last Sent
That Long Deferred But Not
Awaited Message
AS THE PEOPLE ALREADY
KNEW THE RESULT
After Sixteen Days In Which to Make
Up His Mind That the People of the
United States Did Not Desire He
and Teddy the Noisy to be their
Bosses for the Next Four Years,
Hughes Before It Was Everlastingly
Too Late to Save His Face Grud
glngly Wires Woodrow Wilson That
He Has Given Up His Last Longing
Hope
Well! Its all over now shouting
nnd all for the last token has been'
given and Woodrow Wilson will now
succeed himself according to the high
est authority in the Republican party
the man who tried with the help of
Teddy the Noisy, Penrose, Snioot,
Crane, Morgan, Rockefeller, Root et
al, to defeat him Charles Evans
Hughes.
It needed or rather required six
teen long days for Hughes to make
up his mind that he was licked while
the whole of America and the world
in general knew the real truth no
later than the second day after the
battle of ballots. Why! even our own
Charley Morris who does not feel
good over it yet and Is still affected
was bile on the stomach, knew and
admitted It on Friday morning after
the battle although on the front page
of his Gazette on Wednesday morn
ing he carried a select coterie of
Hughes doodle-do roosters.
Now Hughes 'Fesses' Up
After thinking It all over for
teen days, on the sixteenth day Mr.
Hughes felt constrained to believe
that the jig was up, so he sits down'
and wires Mr. Wilson as follows: I
Because of the closeness of the
vote, I have awaited the official count
In California, and now that it has been
virtually completed, permit me to ex-
tend to you my congratulations upon
your re-election. I desire also to ex-'
press my best wishes for a success
ful administration."
President Wilson did not take the
time limit of fifteen days, but fifteen
minutes after he had received Mr.
Hughes' message he had this one on
the way in reply:
"I am sincerely obliged to you for
,.,r nBnM nf .nn.rnlnhllnn Al.
vrnr mpRn7P nf rnnemtnlatinn. Al
low me to assure you of my good brato Thanksgiving in a proper man
wishes for the years to come." ner. Even while President Wilson has
Willie Rebecca Willcox, who had decreed Thursday. Nov. 30th as the
charge of the Republican national day, there are hundreds of people here
campaign is still a little in doubt who do not understand how the day
In fact he Is In the middle of Teddy's originated and why it s observed. For
famous River of Doubt and cannot thelr benefit It might be stated that in
swim, for he sent this schoolboy tele- riiioi ,i.. it ....... ,,.,.,.... .
. .
telegram mat uugnes sent i-resiueni
Wilson.
He says:
He Dies Hard
-Si "Having conferred by telephone dur -
ig the day and late yesterday after -
nlttee and the Republican national , Quently various days in Nocembei ge( back ,mo power at the last elec.
lommltteeman in California, I am In- were recommended by president and tJon and lf by deiaying beneficial
onned that the official canvass of the governor until In 1863, the regular ob- inii..tinn ... the next recular session
,& .iTcbS yazrt e ot -"r1 Thv,n :?TZiX SS"totS
V'W precincts not counted In the re-lday was Instituted through a procla- nelp thelr caU8e they nl0St certainly
Hums thus far compiled. matlon of President Lincoln. The j would do so The hope and aim of th.
1 "This means that the majority for. president'" proclamation does not Democratic p-irty Is to put through
uLesTomabroloSSOvXa11 make It a national holiday. It applies necded and further renle(yal ,egisla.
rMhlaSJrSlt legally only to the District of Colum-ftlon as soon aB p08lillIe Bfter the
l-auvass for which we have been wait-, Ma and the territories. It is the gov- gavel fans Dec. 4th, starting the mem
Ing. So far as any recount is con- ernor's proclamations that affect the Der8 0 tue present congress to work,
corned, the national committee Is not 8tate8. w fc that we have a maJorlty
Sini ,?mi.u u5SS- K Th day ? ?bse7ed :n, a" 8trr? and - d not kn as yei ,f we wm
Jjon .. but In some It Is not a statutory holl- t,ave one alter March 4, 1917.
Of course no one ,or nobody, or no day. Thursday was originally selected' Great Results Accomplished
person, or no organlration, Intends or by the Puritans probably because, be-j xo congress in the history of
even Intended to contest the Callfor- Ing near the middle of the week, it American government ever accom
nla result for It was and la too raanl-J gave opportunity for the scattered pushed so much good for the people
f est therefore we will all go to members of the family to come to-0f the United States, as did the one
Washington, D. C, March 1st and gether and to return without descrat- J which sat all through the hot summer
pend the next few days there at- Jng the Sabbath by the month when, of this year and only closed after Its
tending the ceremonies Incidental to the fall harvests were all gathered, members had worked through nine
the inauguration of President Wilson, other countries' have TLtnksglvlng long months and passed remedial and
and four more years of peace and
plenty.
j No More Nepotism Goes
With the entire Democratic state
ticket elected, except John P. Gordon,
tlr-J Inference la plain that Missouri
Dviaoiruts are strongly antagonistic
to nepotism. The remarkable thing
ulout It Is that Mr. Gordon was given
a remarkable lead over his opponents
In the state primaries, and then wns
di 'tblvely defeated at the November
election by his own party. The les-
BJ, clven officials Is that when a Btate
Iff leer is elected It does not follow
thct his family Is elected with him.
Glasgow MIssourlan.
THE McDANIEL CASE
The Prosecution Rests Its Case and
the Defense Will Now Hava
an Inning i
At 4 o'clock Thursday afternoon
with the taking of the testimony ot
Miss Allene Moss, sister of the dead
woman, on the part of the prosecu
tion, the state rested Its case, after
five days of strenuous activity. Dur
ing those five days many local repu
tations had been made and lost
principally lost.
All of the evidence that the state
nt that time cared to Introduce was
in, and then special prosecutor Lock
wood announced that the prosecution
would rest. After a consultation
among the attorneys and Judge Kyan
the latter ordered a recess until 2
o'clock Friday afternoon, nfter first
admonishing the attorneys that he
wanted them, If possible, to get
through with the case in time for the
Jurors to dine on Thanksgiving with
their families and friends.
It Is the consensus of opinion
among those who profess to under
stand matters that the state made a
poor case If any at all.
SOME HEAD ARTIST
The Way That Editor Whlttaker of
the Henry Co. Democrat Told
of the Result
Editor Whlttaker of the Henry
County Democrat of Clinton is come
Democrat he Is also some celebrater.
And also Is some headline artist. This
is the way (but in big letters) that he
announced the Wilson victory:
WE CROW1
Come Listen to the Doodle Do of All
Our Lusty Crowers,
Come Hear the Democratic Shouts as
Wilson's Vote Still Soars;
Our Birds Have Flopped against Their
Coop, but now We've Turned 'em
Out
fif-.To Join In Joyous Chorus with the
Democratic Shout
Happy Dayl
Happy Day!
When Woodrow's Hosts
All Say "Horrayl"
..., . .. . ...,
ORIGIN OF THANKSGIVING
With It Close at Hand Many People
Are Yet Ignorant of Its
Inception
On next Thursday if you are lucky
enough to have the price or are still
more fortunate In havlni? n frlpnil whn
,,,, ,. , ,. , ,,, . ,
had the PrlCe- 0U maV helP t( Cele-
.. ..,. r f..i .. ,.! ,
,U,UI. viujo '"b "' ci..ih. "
prayer, or thanksgiving, when nubile.
events seemed to arrant this recognl-! t0 do and whlch we know
tlon. In 1.89 Washington ordered a,.. . .. wT,Q ,.,i nrvo, if
. day of thanksgiving for the adoption
', the Fetleral constitutlon Subse -
days for special occasions, such as
success in battle or the deliverance
of the people from a national calamity,
but the fixed annual Thanksgiving day,
Is a custom belonging to America'
alone. i
Another Wilton Prosperity Item j
Al Miller, who lives four miles north
of Tracy, had a stock reduction sale
last week, Nov. 9. He sold over $2,000
...
worth of stock, und the singular part,1
It was a strictly cash sale, and not a:
single noto was offered or ' given
though Mr, Miller would have, gladly,
accepted a banka)(e note. This is a
good argument ln-favor of the Wilson
iii
1 prosperity. IMatte County Landmark.
CONGRESSMAN BQOHER 10 LEAVE
FOR HIS POST OF DUTY THURSDAY
Democratic Legislation for the Whole
People's Good to be Pushed
at Short Session
Nothing to be Left to the Chance of a
Possibly Divided Assemblage
the Coming Year
"There will be nothing left undone
the coming session of congress to put
on the federal statute books all good
legislation that the country needs,"
declared Congressman Charles F.
Booher yesterday. "The fact that the
Democrats are In control of all gov
ernment machinery now, and may not
be after March 4, 1917," he declared,
"behooves us that while we are In
power we should improve every mo
ment and not wait until we have v hat
saaaBasS?cnaaaw
jjnvL r$ ' fmiwiii? &
CONGRESSMAN CHARLES F. BOOHER
may be a 'mixed congress to put
., ,, .,I,,, f., ,U hnn..flf n,
I ii nt iho ni'imln whli'h the l)i mocrats
,. .in ,, Wnll 8treet ,ntere8t8
1 y , V .u. .
progressive measures the like of
which had never found their way to
' the statute books of any nation, old or
new. The members of that congress
I ....... . . .
realized tnat tney were living anu
representing an epoch making period
In the history of the world and no
sacrifice was too great for them to
endure, that the future welfare and
prosperity of this, the greatest natl
on earth, should be fostered and ptr-
petuated. To our great president,
Woodrow Wilson's wise counsel and
great desire for the good of tho ua-
tlon, much of the success of that me-
morablO Session IS Ulie anu ll nil '111-
uured to the benefit of the American
( people.'
Asked as to what he thought of the
probable complexion of the congress
to follow the coming short session, Mr.
Booher aid:
"As to that we are now all at sea.
No one seems so far to be able to tell
what may result from the contests
which are now looming up, but it has
the appearance of being a trifle mixed.'
Of course, I hope that out of the sea
of doubt will emerge a Democratic
house, for with the senate assured, our
progress with a house In full sympa
th would mean so much more cer
Uvinty for the one hundred millions of
Americans."
Will Leave Thursday
Congressman Booher will leave
Thursday night for his field of labor
In Washington. He will be In St. Jo-
ijcph on Monday and Tuesday to see
all who desire to meet him prior to his
depaiture and to take with him their
needs and wants.
He does not expect to return home
during the Christmas holidays, as he
has much work before him, and as he
Is known as one of the hardest work
ing members of that body, he does not
anticipate that his duties will be such
as to enable him to come home during
the holiday season.
Many Congratulatory Messages
Since his re-election by one of the
i.nfii. umjuuutti oer eiveu mm in
a year where there was no division, 351.9S accordlng to a statement of chlcaco 111 Nov -1 -Women are
Mr. Booher has received many con- expen8e flled by chaIrman charles s.'s as clerks and fudges of el
gratiilatory mes-sages on his sixth Hatfield of the executive committee fa,lures a8 f'erKS ana 3u,Ufes 0I el
successive election One nf thosn ""V1 'U l executne committee Uon accordlng to a statement by
successive election, one or those wth the gecretary of state. Frank A Avers assistant comoration
which he prizes the most highly Is Myron T HerrIck defeated candl- , I mi , corpora"on
'rom qectetarv of the interior PnnW. MTon k' "erricK. ueieateu canui- coUnsei who Is aiding In supervising
roin bictetar of the Interior Frank date ,or the Unked states genat re. election The
lln K. Lane, a warm personal friend nortcd t798o70 SDeat I lne canas ol ae recnJ election. ne
of the concTessman with whom h Is porlcu 7'S8-7U sPent- ' county, he said, will be obliged to
or tne congressman with whom he Is The Democratic state organization SDend 8eVeral hundred dollars to un
continuously thrown In business rela- Thlirs(Hv flied a statement shnwlne P . 8eyeral Dunar uollars l0 n
tion durlnc the sessions of enmrres 1" ? statement showing tangle mlxup8 cauged by women o(fl.
i .i u v . .u I v 7. T
nnd which but further shows the high
. . ....
personal esteem in wmen Mr. Booher
Is held by the departments at the
capital city. Secretary Lane's mes-
sago follows:
The Secretary of the Interior,
Washington, Nov. 13, 1916.
H n Charles F. Booher,
My Dear j(jr. Booher,
vnnnnh. Mo.
Lct rae ndd my congratulations to
the many you are receiving. It was a
splendid victory and it Is good to know
v "r n4 ir juui cijj in liiuj
lnK on tho ?d T,'
vuiuiiui juuib,
FIANKL1N K. LANE.
AS TO HEALTH INSURANCE
The New York Commercial Has a
Most Interesting Editorial on
That Propaganda
More or less mystery surrounds the
propaganda now being assiduously
disseminated favoring compulsory
health insurance. The propaganda
first made Its appearance over the
signature of the American Association
for Labor Legislation and it was gen
erally assumed that the proposal had
the support of the organized labor of
the country. This, as It now appears,
is not the case and the responsibility
Is variously charged to the medical
associations and to the so-named labor
association which It is declared Is
comprised of college professors, social
workers and public officials holding
custodial sinecures, and Interested In
the extension of the already overdone
paternalism Into which we have fallen.
The oracular duties of the propa
ganda has for the most part been as
signed to the professional element,
and upon the foundation of irresponsi
bility which Is the peculiar attribute
of our democratic schools, they are
proceeding to erect an Ideal social
structure composed of words. Their
notorious lack of practicality, it Is
said, has led them to Indorse with all
the fanfare of authority an altogether
un-American
and impracticable
scheme by which It Is proposed to
bring surcease of all the ills of every
man w,0 earns less than $100 per
month. Why they assume that only
persons earning less than $100 per
month need benevolence in the time
of Illness Is not disclosed. The fact
that they do exclude those who earn
more Is an Immaterial evidence of
their lack of knowledge of actual con
ditions among the people of the coun
try. That the propaganda has proceeded
to the point where It commands seri
ous consideration without attracting
the attention of the responsible citi
zenship of the country is another evl-
dence of that serious American fault prolonged 'strenuosity,' to borrovs.
of leaving everything not of direct and' Teddy's word. We can borrow any
immediate interest to our personal af-j thing of Teddy's now; something tells
fairs until we are knocked on the me he won-t need nothing no more
head. It appears that somebody from j -Hypocrite,' 'coward' a.d liar' all
somewhere is spending a good deal have a to jet. slgn on jhem, so lf yoa.
of money on the propagnnda-oi theican uge any of the3e fie,e lpmis jt.aV
faddists and that there is serious dan-'nep yprsejf
ger that some of our legislatures will i
get the notion that the thing s de
sired by the labor interests and sad
dle us with something that neither we1
nor those who advocate It know any
thing about.
The political liberties of the coun
try, such as they are, and the indt-j
nnnnnnna rT inn Aniprirnn AVMrKriiMii
ought to be the average income of that
important class, our doctors.
As it Is represented the hodge -
podge of European laws offered for
enactment by our legislatures seem
to have left these phases of the mat -
ter entirely out of consideration. If
we must have compulsory health In -
surance we should have a form of It
that will harmonize with our institu -
tlons, and to that end we should pass
the question on for the consideration
of practical men before we rush Into
It. New York Commercial.
WHAT THEY SPENT
t s Not to Be Wondered at That
-rney Made Rome Howl in
. Qhlo
'
Columbus. O., Nov. 23. The Repub-
ncan cainpalgn In Ohio cost J373.
Jo'.&oo expenuea on tne Democratic
campaign.
WHEN COL. GATES RAN FOR .
OFFICE
The following taken from the 'iForty
Years Ago" column of the Kansas City'
Times, will recall to the older resi
dents of St. Joseph memories of two
Brat Mlssourlans:
"Oenaral Marmaduke, running for
railroad comralssione-, leads the
unuutmuy iiunak lii JuuADtiii luuih,
l',th a, vot.e. 5'49S' a?d C.0,0J11
uiiu d( iur Dime 11 niBUin, luuuws iiiu
closely with 5,097."
; . ., , . .!, i us snobs and snoberines, who are too
Is of vastly more Importance to those
of us who still desire to live In the Droud t0 f& l fea"f think his elo
atmosphere ot democracy than is the " mi lnsP're Quee? Lil " bf
question of an automobillous living' tle for ber lost lhrone: hers is the
wage for the doctor of the country, : onlr country l ean thlnk of- outsIao r
however desirable that might be. We'thl3' where he couId "surrect to his
must consider the effect of such legis-! heart's content, and still keep his skin
lation as is proposed upon the Institu- Perfectly safe. With a squadron or
tlons of the country first and if we Aehting suckers, recruited from the
find that the innovation is compatible River of Doubt (which Brother
with our ideals we will then be at lib- Hughes swam as blithely as Leander
erty to take up the question of what frm the Hellespont, coo-cooing to his
A
T DAY IN
LIU 0L' NEW YORK
When It Was Found That
Woodrow Wilson Was Again
to Head the Government
AND THAT FOUR YEARS
OF PEACE WERE CERTAIN
A St. Joseph Attache of the Demo
cratic National Committee Who
Went Through the Great Battlr
From the First Shot on the Skirmish
Line Until the Joy Bells Rang Out
the Peals of Victory Tells in Graphic
Language of the Stirring Scenes and
Striking Situations
St. Joseph has an attache of the Na
tional Democratic committee, who
has been with that organization at
national headquarters all through the
strenuous campaign waged which has
placed Wilson In the White House for
the next four years. This attache
writes as ff'lows to a friend In Savan
nah, and u is certainly "interestia
readln."
Here is the letter:
"I wisht I was a little rock
A-settin' on a hill;
A-doln' nothing all day long
But Just a-slttln' still.
1 wouldn't eat, 1 wouldn't drink,
I wouldn't even wash;
I'd set and set a thousand years
And rest myself, by gosh!"
New York, November 14.
Dear
"Well s'all over, and here It is, an
whole week after the Large Event!
"The above little poem, while not
original, is quite expressive of the
lassitude which naturally follows a
Too Tame for Teddy
"I expect this ungrateful country
will prove too tame for a guy that's
too humble to live in peace and pros
perity. Much as I should hate to see
Teddy-The-Terrible expatriate himself.
It's a shame that such sterling militar
ism should go a-begging amongst all
Hero on the far side), he ought to
j make a gallant and convincing crusa-
;der. The fact that Queen Lll doesn't
want the old throne, and Is well satis-
fled with her three squares a day, need
'not, of course, deter the old boy or
dampen his ardor for a minute.
, "It was made perfectly plain to
everybody on November 7th (for a
1 coupla hours), that the rank and file
of law-abiding boobs (such as cast
their vote for Woodrow), don't knov.-
what's good for them, anyway, and It
takes Teddy to point out their destiny;
in fact. I think he will be recorded as
(Continued on Page Eight)
FAILURES AS JUDGES
Can Remember What Other Women
Wore But Not What They
Put on Books
eiajs
I "The women who were called bo-
.fore the election board probably
could remember how other women
! Judges or clerks were dressed, but
they utterly failed to remember what
they had written on tally sheets, even
though given their sheets to refresh
their memory," Ayers said.
THE BEST REASON EVER
Jack Sprat could eat no fat,
HU wtfe could eat no lean,
Becausp. you see, the prlees are
The highest ever seen.
UREA
