nn
VOL XX NO. 216.
BAIUIK, VERMONT, SATURDAY, XOVKMHKlt
191G.
P1UCE, OXE CEXT.
THE BARRE
DAILY
IMBS
PART OF GREECE
DECLARES WAR
ON BULGARIA
The provisional Government
Which Was Formed by
the Supporters of Former
Premier Venizelos Makes
Formal Declaration, Ac
cording to Despatch Re
ceived in London
GREEK KING WILL
RESIST THE ALLIES
It Is Stated in Circles Close
to the Throne That At-
tempts to Seize Arms and
Ammunition, as Hinted by
the Entente Forces, Will
Meet with Resistance
London, Nov. 25. The provisional gov
ernmcnt of Greece, which was formed by
the supporter of former Premier Vent
r.clos, has formally declared war on Bul
garia, says an Athens dispatch to the Ex
change Telegraph company to-day.
Greek Royalists Will Refuse Arms.
London, Nov. 25. Renter's Athen cor
respondence gays it is Btated in circles
close to the Greek court that any at
tempt of the entente allies to obtain pos
session of Greek arms and ammunition,
as demanded by Vice-Admiral De Four
net of the allied" squadron, will meet with
resistance.
WATE1UWRY
Herbert Huntley, Herbert Pierce,
Maurice Irish and Fred Wilcox of West
ford are guests of Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Irish.
The following officers have been elected
bv the grammar school: president, Aus
tin Coolcv: vice-president, Geraldine
Lyon; secretary, Healey Randall; treas
urer tihzp! Phase. The committee on
motto are Herman Chase, Corrina Somer
ville and Harold Lease; committee on
colors, Dalton O'Brien, Richard Swasey,
Ruth Stanley; committee on pins, vien
nard Turner, Gilbert Nutbrown and Ruth
Moody.
The following are the officers-elect for
Dillingham grange: Master, Otis Colton;
overseer, Fred Ravlin; lecturer, Mrs. El
sie Colton; steward, lark Eastman;
chaplain, Mrs. Anna Deavitt; secretary,
Mrs. Inda Donovan; treasurer, Mrs. Ella
West ; assistant and lady assistant stew
ard. Mr. and Mrs. Jester Hills; gntekoep.
er, Eav Davis; Pomona. Pluebe Good
heart; 'Flora, Elsie Deavitt; Ceres, Mrs.
Shonio.
T. E. Hopkins' state's attorney tor
Chittenden county, hag been at the Dux
bury town clerk's office t'lis week look
ing up titles on the land which the state
expects to purchase to add to the Cam
el's Hump tract, already owned by the
state.
At a recent meeting of the Athletic as
sociation of the high school, the follow
ing committee was elected to make ar
rangements for a play to be given for the
benefit of the association: Prof. P. H.
Aldrich, J. Burleigh Lyford and Robert
E. Luce. Don .1. Grout, Lestina Bidwell
wnd Stella Griffith are a committee from
the class to arrange for tha senior class
play.
The Dillingham grange has purchased
a piano, which has been placed in the
hall at Duxbury.
On Tuesday evening at the Congrega
tional church, Miss Marion Hertha
Clarke, impersonator, will present "Dad
dy Long Legs." Local talent will fur
nish the musio. Organ and piano duets
will be furnished by Mrs. E. F. Palmer
and Mrs. W. L. Boicourt. Vocal solos
will be rendered by Miss Mildred Breenc;
a six-hand piano number by Mrs. Max
Ayers, Miss 1-cna Wallace and Mrs. Boicourt,-
and the ladies' chorus will sing.
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Gerniino enter
tained 18 of their friend Thursday even
ing at their home with a venison dinner,
Mr. Germino having been one of the
lucky hunters.
The subject of Rev. William L. Boi
court's sermon to-morrow morning will
be, "The Spirit of Thanksgiving in This
Year of Our Lord." There will be appro
priate music for the Thanksgiving serv
ice. The evening service will be led by
Mr. Chaffee, discussing the fourth chapter
of "Pilgrim Deeds and Duties."
"The Modern Trend in Christian
Thought; Is Our Christianity Growing
Better or Worse!" will be discussed by
Rev. V. L. Smith at the morning service
at the Methodist Episcopal church Sun
day. On Monday evening the men's brother
hood of the Methodist church have a
treat in store, when Col. Ira L. Reeves
will speak to them on "Experiences on
the Mexican Border."
Services at St. Andrew's church as
Usual.
TWO HUGE CROWDS
SEE FOOTBALL GAMES
Yale-Harvard in New Haven and Army-
Navy in New York President Wil
ton Couldn't Attend Latter
Because of Cold.
New Haven, Conn., Nov. 23. Clear
skies, crisp atmosphere and a slight west-
erly wind were the weather conditions
for the Yale-Harvard football classic
to-day. The crowds who were to wit
ness the game began to pour into the
city last night, and during the fore
noon a steady stream of humanity flowed
in over the railroad lines, by automobiles
and in other ways. Eighty thousand
people, lacking a few hundred, witnessed
the game, gome confident of a Crim
son victory and others equally sure that
the Blue would be able to turn the ta
hleg and win decisively enough to off
set the defeats of the past few years.
New York, Nov. 25. One of the larg
est crowds that ever attended an athletic
event In this citv sought the Polo
grounds to-day to witness the. annual
football contest between Annapolis and
West Point. President Wilson was un
able to attend because of a cold but
members of the cabinet and other high
officials, in addition to many prominent
representatives of both branches of the
service, aimed to the bnllancy ot tne
assemblage. Secretary of War Baker
headed the list of notables in the army
section, while Secretary of the Navy
Daniels occupied a similar position with
the navy supporters.
TEUTONS ARE
CLOSING IN
PEACE PLANS APPROVED.
Bucharest Is Being Endan
gered from the North,
South and West
VON MACKENSEN
GAINS A FOOTING
Russian Assistance on Mol
davian Front Isof No
Avail Thus Far
NABBED IN VERMONT.
Two Alleged Deserters from British
Army Taken Back to Canada.
St. Albans, Nov. 25. Ruben Cooper
and Louis Hartzburg, w ho were taken in
charge by United States Immigration of
ficers in this city, were deported to Can
ada by Officer E. H. Tohey yesterday as
undesirable aliens. I hey were turned
over to J. A. Demars, Canadian officer, at
the Canadian line, to be turned over to
the British authorities in Montreal. Jo
seph Roberts, who was with Cooper and
Hartzburg, was released on proving that
he was a citizen of the United States.
The men who are said to be members of
the British army, wishing to come to this
country, took measures by means of
which they were placed on the British
steamship Manchester Shipper, which
was short-handed, working their pas
sage to Canada. After landing at Quebee
they deserted and came through Rich
ford to St. Albans.
I in her loss of speech. Her condition is
not considered critical.
Judge Frank L. Fish left this fore
noon for his home in Vergennes to spend
the week end. As chancellor he heart
ycterday the case of City of Montpelier
vs. Barre & Montpelier Traction com
pany, the orator seeking to have an or-
Adolph Lane of this citv and F. Ellen- ider made compelling the traction coin-
wood of South Barre left last night for ! pany to furnish a tlO.OoO bond aoeord
Smngglers' Notch, where they will spend jing to terms of the franchise. The city
MONTPELIER
Dr. C H. Burr waa High Gun at Shoot
Friday Afternoon.
Dr. C. H. Burr of Montpelier was high
individual gun at the shoot at Curtis
park yesterday afternoon between the
Montpelier, St. Albans and Morriaville
teams for the Tauquahunga trophy, a
silver cup won last year by the local
team. Montpelier won again yesterday
and must win but once more to obtain
permanent possession of the cup. Dr
Burr had a score of 03 without a handi
cap, breaking tne last oz oi tne iw
birds without a miss, his performance be
ing exceptionally tine because of the
brisk wind. George E. Mcgrath of Mont
pelier w'as second with 91, a score of 64
and a handicap of 27. Maurice of Mor
riaville and Adams of Montpelier were
tied for third, the latter securing an 88
score without a handicap and Maurice
having 29 added to his total. The team
scares were as follows: Montpelier 38";
Morrisville 293; St. Albans 348.
Among the Montpelier persons who
left last evening for New Haven, Conn.,
to attend the Yale-Harvard football con
test in the Yale bowl are Fred A. J low
land, E. A. Field, James Ford, Fred
Yeaton, Fred E. Gleason, G. C. Bailey,
and D. R. Campbell.
Howard Almon, son of Mr. and Mrs.
George A. Almon, is able to be out after
an attack of appendicitis. An operation
will probably be averted for the time being.
Don Fellows, who has been employed
by the state at the arsenal since his re
turn from Forth Ethan Allen, left yes
terday for his former, home, Charlestown,
N. H., to visit relatives.
Funeral services for Harry M. Wheel
er, whose death occurred Wednesday
evening, were held at 2 o'clock yester
day afternoon at his late home on Town
hill. Rev. J. W. Barnett, pastor of the
Congregational church of Barre, officiat
ed. The bearers were his son, Albert M.
Wheeler, a nephew, Leo Bresett and
brother-in-law, Harry Gamble, both of
Barre, Frank Sawyer of Moretown and
L, E. Doten and L. L. Cutler from Mont
pelier. Burial was made in Green Mount
cemetery.
In probate court to-day the will of
Sophia Maxham, late of Northfield,
was presented for probate-
Berlin, by wireless, Nov, 25. The at
tacks of the Russo-Rumanian force in
the Gyersyo mountain on the Moldavian
front were repulsed yesterday by Teu
tonic forces, with heavy losses to the at
tacks, the war office announces.
Several towns in Rumania, south of
Alt puss, have been captured by the Aus-tro-Gernuin
invader and the resistance
of the Rumanians in the lowlands of the
lower Alt ia broken. Austro-German
troops have crossed the Alt and the
forces of Field Marshal Von Mackensen
have crossed the Danube and gained a
footing on Rumanian aoil.
PetrogTad, via London. Nov.- 25. The
war office announces that the Germans
have made a crossing of the Danube near
Zimmtza, 70 miles southwest of Bucharest.
GREAT ZEPPELIN
WAS DESTROYED
Only One of Its Crew of 28 Survived as
Huge Airship Was Blown Out of
Its Course and Into Some
Woods.
London, Nov. 25. The wrecking of a
super-Zeppelin in a storm on Tuesday
was reported by travelers reaching Am
sterdam from Munich, says an Exchange
Telegraph dispatch from Amsterdam.
Thev report onlv one survivor of a crew
of 28. The Zeppelin is said to have been
on the way from Friedrichaven to Wil-
helmshaven on its first voyage when it
was blown out of its course and fell into
the woods near Mainz.
BULGARIANS SEIZE LSLAND.
Have Taken Land in the Danube South
east of Craiova.
Sofia, via Ixindon, Nov. 25. Bulgarian
troops have occupied an island in the
Danube southeast of Craiova, according
to official statement of the war office to
BULGARIANS SEIZE ISLAND.
Sunk by German Submarine and Her
Crew Landed By Greek Steamer.
London, Nov. 25. Llovd's announces
that the Greek steamer Thetis has land
ed the crew of the Norwegian steamer
Dansted, which was sunk by a German
submarine.
Statesmen of Warring Nations Send
Message to New York Meeting.
New York, Nov. 25. Messages of good
will from the chancellors of three of Eu
rope's warring powers were rend at a
dinner given here last night by the
League to Enforce Peace. The purpose
of the banquet wag to consider a program
for a permanent league of nutions at
the close of the great conflict.
Approval of the principle proposed was
given by Aristide Briand, premier of
France, Chancellor von Bcthmaiin-Holl-weg
of German and Viscount Grey, Great
Britain's secretary of state for foreign
affairs.
Premier Briand'g message read:
"You are certain of being on common
ground with the countries who, in the
present conflict, are giving their blood
and their resources, without counting the
costs, to save the independence of the
nations.''
From Viscount Grey the following
message was received:
"I think public utterances must have
already made it clear that I sincerely
desire to see a league of nations formed
and made effective to ecuruture peace
of the world after this war fs over. I
regard this as the best, if not the only.
prospect of preserving treaties ..ltd of
saving the world from aggressive wars
in vears to come."
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg sent
as hi message extracts from a speech
he delivered on Nov. 9, before the com
mittee on ways and means of the Ger
man Reichstag: .
Germany will honestly co-operate in
the. examination of every endeavor to
find" a practical solution of the ques
tion, and will collaborate to make its
realization possible. This all the more,
if the war, as we expect and trust, will
create political conditions, which do full
justice to the free development of all na
tions, the email ones as well as the
great nations. Then it will be possible
to realize the principles of justict. and
free development on land and of the free
dom of the seas. Thtf first condition for
evolution of international relations by
way of arbitration and peaceful compro
mise of conflicting interests should be
that no more aggressive coalitions are
formed in the fiitum Germany will at
all times be ready to enter a league for
the purpose of restraining the disturbers
of peace."
Lord Brvce, former British ambassa
dor to the United States, also sent to
former President William H. Taft, pres
ident of the the league, who presided at
the dinner, the fallowing:
Those working here on vour lines
send heartiest sympathy with, and best
wishes for vour league's efforts."
Among the speakers were Senator Wil
liam J. Stone of Missouri, chairman ot
the Senate committee on foreign affairs,
and Jacob H. Schiff, the banker.
Referring to the approving message
received from European statesmen. Wil
liam H. Taft, president of the league,
said:
"The action of France, England and
Germany in fulfilling their obligations
in this war in respect to an issue in
which thev had no direct concern is a
refutation of the claim that treaty obli
gations cannot be relied upon to make
such ii league as this practicable.
"I don't think it too much to say that
when the war is over, when the awful
consequences more and more impress
themselves upon the suffering belliger
ents, Europe will be ripe for the accep
tance a plan like ours for it consider
ation, discussion, amendment and adoption."
THIRD ATTACK
IN THREE DAYS
Villa and His Bandit Force
Again Try to Capture
Chihuahua City
GENERAL TREVINO
RESISTS STRONGLY
The Attackers Are Said to
Have Lost Heavily in the
Other Two Assaults
Juarez, Mex., Nov. 25. Francisco Villa
and his bandit forces resumed the at
tack on Chihuahua City at duybreak to
day, according to the dispatches to the
Carranza officials here, making the third
day's fighting in Villa's ellorts to wrest I
the capital of Chihuahua from General
Trevinu's constitutionalist forces.
VILLA DEFEATED.
tat ion of his troops and the movement
ol his supplies if ho desires.
The Mexicans contended earnestly for
t he incorporation .in the protocol of
clause providing that if troops were sent
across the line in pursuit of Imtmit
thev should be moved only to certain
distances, that they should comprise only
of certain arms of service and ineliul
onlv n specified number of men: that
they should be kept in the country only
a certain time and that they -must be
moved only in certain region. To all
these arguments the Americans were
firm in their insistence that there nuiht
be no limitations.
Tie article providing for the military
control of the border was condensed from
elaborate and intricate plana whose con
Hiilcration has taken much oi the time
of the commission. The Mexicans have
been insistent that there should be de
fined a neutral zone in which the ar
niies of the two governments might
operate, but since the consideration of
that point invariably brought the com
missioners back to the question ot Inn
ited pursuit it was definitely rejected
by the Americans, as was the suggestion
for co-operation in which American
troops might find themselves commanded
bv Mexican ofheers.
If the agreement is ratified there will
begin n Jong consideration of the re
niaining questions that the American
government regards as vital to the full
i restoration of friendly relations with
Mexico. These include taxes, threats to
confiscate property, sanitary conditions
ami claims. Such problems are regarded
by the Americans as essentially basic
and necessary to an understanding
In His Attack on Chihuahua City After
Losing Many Men.
Juarez, Mex.,' Nov. 25. Francisco Villa
has failed in his repeated efforts to
capture Chihuahua City from the de
facto forces, high Carranza officials here
who were in cunstant touch with devel
opments in the state capital declared em
phatically last night.
After two days of almost continuous
fighting, Villa has left for the north
west with the remnants of his command,
they say. With the reported withdraw
al of the enemy, the attention of the
Carranza forces is being turned to bury
DEMOCRATS CELEBRATED.
Held Enthusiastic Assembly in Montpe
lier Friday Evening.
Montpelier Democrats, augmented bv a
number of the same political affiliation
from surrounding towns, held an enthu
siastic celebration of the. Wilson and
Brooks victory at the polls Nov. 7 last
evening, a redfire parade, with music by
the Montpelier Military band, being sue
ceeded by speechmaking at the city hall
and a public dance.
The parade formed in front of the city
hall at 7:30 o'clock and headed bv the
mounted marshals ami the police force
ins the dead and carina for the wounded ;the victorious Democrats, many carrying
both bandit and government soldiers Maimers with such quips as "V ho s Ho
who were left on the battlefield after Ninon; ttlioi Hughes Ex-Judge,"
VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES.
Advance of Germans Arrested.
Bucharest, via London, Nov. 25. The
war office announce that the advance of
the Germans, who crossed the Danube,
has been arrested.
TALK OF THE TOWN
William Murray of Graniteville passed
through the city this morning while on
his way to Burlington for a week-end
visit.
George Aitken left the city this morn
ing for Hardwick, where he has secured
employment in the plant of the Wood
bury Granite Co.
Joseph Aja, a Spanish butcher, achieved
signal success in matching a steer with
his delivery horse yesterday, although
pedestrians along North Main street who
saw the pair meandering down the thor
oughfare were aware that there were
ambling together for the first time.
Somewhere on Prospect street Mr. Aja
negotiated the hitch, and the steer, an
animal of superior mental attainments
for a bovine, behaved like a veteran
while in the traces. The horse, accus
tomed to having it own way in the har
ness, was a bit more nervous, but the
driver's gentle urging, being punctuated
with threatening flourishes of the whip,
soon composed the animal's feelings.
Thirty-five friends of Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Mitchell gathered at their home,
353 North Main street, a few evenings
ago to help them celebrate the 25th anni
versary of their marriage. The event
was a complete surprise to the host and
hostess, but it developed into an evening
of much pleasure. There were solos by
Joseph Will, Mrs. Will and Alex Ander
son and then Mr. Will presented Mr. and
Mrs. Mitchell a silver tea service, in behalf
Involuntary Petition Against Alexander
and Tony Corey of Barre.
Rutland, Nov. 25. An tnvolu.ttary pe
tition in bankruptcy was filed yesterday
in the office in this city of Clerk K. S.
Piatt of the United States court against
Alexander Corey and Tony Corey of
Barre, doing business under the name
New American Clothing company. The
petitioners and the amount of their
claims follow: Samuel Golberg, New
York, $291.33; Otto Weiss, New York,
$187.95; Novasky Bros., New York,
$320.75. J. Ward Carver of Barre is' at
torney for the petitioners. Preference of
certain creditorsis the ground on which
the proceedings are brought. There is a
prayer for appointment of a receiver.
An involuntary petition was also
brought against the Clark L McMaster
Piano company of Rutland, whose doors
have been closed for two Weeks on the
foreclosure of a mortgage held by the
Clement National bank. The petition
ing creditors are Charles H. Keith, trus
tee in bankruptcy of the National Piano
company of Boston, with a claim of $10,
441.18; the American Fiano Supply com
pany of New York City, with a'eiaim of
$4,420, and the Wissell, Nickel and Gross
company of New York, with a claim of
$705. Lawrence, Lawrence A Stafford
appear for the petitioning creditors and
the preterence of certain creditors is
given as the act in bankruptcy.
yesterday's fighting, official reports frrnii
Chihuahua City say. The Carranza gen
eral reported killed is said to be General
(iandara, a former follower of ilia, who
received amnesty.
The whereabouts of General Murgiiiit's
division, which has been advancing to
ward Chihuahua City from the south, is
as much a mystery as it was Thursday
when Mtirguia was expected to reinforce
General Trevino. A theory advanced by
military officers is that bandit scouts in
formed Villa of the approach of the Mur
guia column and he abandoned the at
tack on the city and sought safety in
flight to the Sierras. Villa's looses are
believed here to have been heavy, and
are variously estimated at 500 to 800
dead and as many more wounded.
and all carrying redlire torches, marched
up Main street, across Spring and down
Elm street to the Pavilion, where Hon
T. J. Bovnton of Boston was escorted to
the city hall. Speeches were made by
Rev. Arthur W. Hewitt of Plainfield,
Rev. J. H. Keardon of liarre, Representative-elect
L. B. Brooks and T. J. Bovn
ton, former Montpelier representative
and ex-attorney general of Massachusetts.
TALK OF THE TOWN
PROVISIONAL PACT
v HAS BEEN SIGNED
Arranges for Withdrawal of American
Troops Now in Chihuahua, But Per
mits Pursuit of Bandits
Into Mexico.
TALK OF THE TOWN
The Sunday evening service at the Con
gregational church will be a stereopticon
lecture on Pilgrim Shrines."
The report circulating that the Fen
wick butchering business has been sold
w ....'.,i k.. m- i- M v., .,-;.. i-
The Thanksgiving service this "year will thi " P eo-operation
be in the Conventional church ttvdnes- ! between the two forces to preserve peace
day evening. Rev. J. B. Reardon will de-
Mrs. Edward P. Richardson suffered iof their friends, George Taylor making
a slight shock at her home, 11 Liberty! the presentation speech. Both Mr. and
street, yesterday afternoon, resulting j Mrs. Mitchell responded. Refreshments
Atlantic City, N. J., Nov.. 25. A proto
col providing for the conditional with
drawal of the American troops now in
Chihuahua, Mexico, and for the military
control of the herder, but with the sup
plemental stipulation that United States
troops shall be sent into Mexico in pur
suit of bandits at any time the American
government deems it necessary, was
signed here yesterday by the members
of the Mexican-American joint commission.
One of the official copies was taken by
Alberto J. Pani of the Mexican com
mission, who left here last night for
New York, whence he will start Monday
for Quertaro, where he will submit it to
tieneral Venustiano Carranza for his ap
proval. The other copy will be delivered
to the American government by Secre
tary of the Interior Franklin K. Lane,
chairman of the American commission,
who left here late yesterday for Wash
ington.
If the protocol is ratified by the two
governments the commission will convene
again on Dec. 8 to resume the discus
sion of other questions affecting the two
countries. If ratification by either gov
ernment is withheld the work of the
conference will be declared at an end.
Following is a paraphrase of the agree
ment to which the last signature was
affixed at 5:49 o'clock yesterday after
noon :
First The American troops now in
Chihuahua, commanded by Gen. John
J. Pershing, shall be withdrawn with
in forty days from the approval of the
protocol by the respective governments
provided that within that time the con
ditions in that part of Mexico have not
become such as to endanger the Ameri
can border. In such event the time shall
be extendeii.
Second The Mexican army shall pat
rol the Mexican side of the border and
the American army the American side
Dr. J. W. Stewart of West street is
absent from the city on a brief hunting
trip.
Antonio Colletti went this forenoon to
Northfield for a week-end visit with rela
tives. Mrs. A. W. Benttie returned to Barre
hist evening from a business trip in
Northfield.
Harley Doyle returned to his home in
Bethel this morning, after visiting
friends in the city for several days.
Perley Kifoirl of Church street, until
recently an employe of the Eastman gro
eery, has commenced work as a conduc
tor on the electric cars.
Mr. and Mrs. A. G. Nelson and two
daughters, who have been passing several
months at Woodbury pond, have re
turned to the city and are residing at 73
Hill street for the winter.
Joseph Krontiui of Foss street has re
turned to the city from Burlington,
where he has been passing a few days
with his son, John Froiitini, who is mak
ing a steady recovery from an operation
to which he submitted a fortnight ago.
The company playing "Common Clay"
at matinee and evening performances in
the Barre opera house, to-day, arrived in
the city this forenoon from Berlin, N. H.
A 60-foot baggage ear was attached to
the regular train arriving at 11 :50 o'clock.
William Martin, jr., of Prospect street,
who was incorrectly reported to have
purchased mileage for Maine, stated to
day that he was on his way to the Green
mountains for a hunting trip before pro
ceeding to Boston, where he has secured
employment with the Atlantic Shipping
Co.
Under the direction of Master Mechan
ic John Whalen, trainmen aboard one of
the quarry liners successfully brought to
the city Friday afternoon the 52-font
spire taken from Jones Bros.' quarry.
Two cars were required for the haul and
a swivel attachment which guided the
big shaft around the curves performed its
task admirably. Arriving in the south
end of the M. & W. R. freight yard, the
cavalcade halted for a few moments and
then the trip to Jones Bros; cutting
plant was completed without event. Cut-
ters,are at work on the monolith, which
the manufacturers expect to ship to
ai- it ,.... x- ...i.t,:
MiMMlinwii evincing, .irw iuii, wimifi
three weeks.
The members of the Vermont Poultry
SENT S.O.S. BUT
PUT OUT FIRE
Steamer Powhatan, Which
Left Boston Last Night,
Was in;' Al
16 PASSEN' ?RS
WERE 30ARD HER
Coast GcScd Cutters An
swered Call but Were
Not Needed
Boston, Nov. 25. The steamer Pow
hatan of the Merchants & Miners' line
which left here last night for Baltimore
with 10 passengers and a general acrgo,
caught fire early this morning off Block
island. The ship immediately sent out
call for help but before the coast
guard cutters had reached the scene Cap
tain tliase reported that the fire, which
was in the forward hold, was under con
trol and that the vessel was anchored oft
Biock island harbor.
The extent of the damage was not
learned at the company's office here, al
though it was stated that the Powhatan
would continue her voyage after an ex
amination of her machinery. No at
tempt was made to take oft the passen
gers, although the coast guard crew from
New Shoreham, Block islund, station
went alioard'and it is believed that the
passengers were at no time in danger.
Later Captain Chase reported that the
damage was considerable and that ha
would land the passengers at Providence.
PIONEER IN GRANITE WORKING.
Eugene Sullivan Died This Morning at
His Home on Park Street.
Eugene Sullivan, a well known granite
manufacturer and for many years a
prominent figure in Barre. passed away
at his home, 114 Park street, this morn
ing at 5:50 o'clock. Mr. Sullivan had
been in failing health for nearly a year
and during the past few months he was.
unable to spend much time at the plant
of Eugene Sullivan & Son in Depot
quare. He leaves his wife and two sons.
James Sullivan of Barre, with whom he
was associated in business, and Joseph
ullivan. a aailor -aboard the U. S. S.
New York, and a daughter, Mrs. Mary
O'Connel! of this city. Surviving also
are five brothers and six sisters.
The deceased wag born in Cork, Ire
land. April 1, 1S40. At the age of 16 he
emigrated to America, locating in Wes
terly, R. I., in ISO,). There, in a time
when Barre granite had scarcely been
heard of, he learned the granite cutter's
trade. Tliirtv-five years ago he came to
this city and worked at the banker for
several vears in the stoneshed of Wet-
more & Morse. In 1SH2 he established a
manufacturing business near Depot
square and some years later he formed
partnership with his son. from its
infancy, Mr. Sullivan watched the prog
ress ot t lie Marre granite industry ami
as a part of its growth. He was one of
a few pioneer manufacturers who are in
business to-day. Almost from the outset
he took an active interest in the welfare
of his adopted city and his was a promi
nent figure in many city meetings.
The funeral arrangements have not
been completed.
C. L. U. COMMITTEES
Were Announced at Regular Meeting of
Organization Last Evening.
Committees for the ensuing period of
six months were named at the regular
meeting of the Central Labor union of
Barre anil vicinity last evening. There
was a large attendance of delegates and
after the appointment of committees had
been ratified, attention was turned to
routine atfairs. The committees are giv
en below.
Credential committee Angus Mc-Don-ald
of the granite cutters. E. L. House of
the barbers, Cyrus R, Hall of the carpen
ters. Wesley Hoffman of the cigarmakcrs,
S. N. Parker of the musicians.
Lultcl and unionizing committee Fred
W. Suitor of the lumpers and boxers, E.
N. Philbriek of the carpenters, D. C. Riz
zi of the retail clerks, for Barre, John
Donald of the paving cutters and Arthi
Pousse of the engineers, for Granite
ville. Organizing committee Harry Dale of
the polishers, L. A. Carpenter of the ty
pographical union. William Halvosa of
the plumbers, for Barre. and George Rock
and George Mearns, for East Barre and
feveral days encamped among the hills,
while on the trail of dcr.
Harding and Paul Cate. brothers of
Weton and Miss Esther Cate. formerly
etudents at Ooddard seminary, arrive! in
seeks to have the bond filed so as to in
sure payment of the transportation com
pany's fart of the cost of construction
of the bridge on State street.
A letter was received this morning
the city to day. They will remain as the -by Louis Rivers from Jacob Galansky of
puestsof Principal and Mrs. O. K. Hnl- ! Allentown, Pa., who left Montpelier over
lister of Merchant street for several 20 year ago. asking for information
week. The hoys came to the city from 'about his brother, Abraham Galansky,
Montreal. P. Q.. where they arrived ye-jthe well known hackman. The brothers
terday after the transcontinental trip have not corresponded since the Allen-
were served and the guests departed with
best wishes for future anniversaries of
their host and hostess.
For the benefit of parents who are anx
ious that their children shall obey the
rules laid down by the council for coast
ing, a list of streets reserved for the win
ter pastime is. printed below. At a spe
cial meeting of the city council a week
ago. the council discussed briefly the pro
posal to reserve hill streets for coasting
and acted favorably on the suggestion
that streets where coasting was permit
ted last winter be set aside for that pur
pose. A perusal of the records indicate
that coasting, therefore, is restricted to
the following street: Batchelder, Camp,
Eat. Long and Warren streets, upper
Granite street, Tark street southerly
from the Tremont street intersection.
Beckley street. John. Fotcr and Acad
emy Mreets. Parents are asked to co-
liver the sermon.
Manuel Campo of Berlin street left
this morning for a week-end visit in St.
Johns-bury. Before returning to Barre he
will make a business visit in Burlington.
Friends of Arthur Macdonald. former
ly of this city and a late graduate of
New York university, are In receipt of a
letter frnm him statin!? that h liad ac-
cepted a position in Dallas, Tex. Mr. it"'" protocol, nut was msoe wie suujeei
xtn,i,,nuM -;n t-onroaer . ,. i,..ia i.. ', "f a supplemental memorandum. The
house in Dallae and will act as a travel
Third It shall be left to the com
manding officers of the armies on the
border of both nations to enter into such
arrangements for co-operation in oper
ation against bandits whenever it is pos-
Slide.
The right of the American government
to send troops across the border in pur-
uit of bandits was not in corporated lit
inc salesman.
Students of the class of 1!17 at ' pea red to sanction what they termed the
Spaulding high school enjoved an in-j ' i"ht ion of their national territory. It
formal dancing assembly in" the school ! the agr.-ement of the Amefreans final
auditorium last evening! A number of I ly to content themselves with stating
th faculty members were present anljthe attitude of the United States in a
Just before" the affair ended at 10 o'clock, 'separate memorandum tha? induced the
daintv refreshments were screed. 'Mexicans to sign the agreement.
At "Clan Gordon hall this evenins. the I The Mexican commissioners agreed that
plications for admission.
A treacherous hole in the highway on
P.oyr.ton street, near Barclay Bros.' plant,
ly engulfed a lmrsp owned by the New
England (Jrnnite Tool Co. and driven by
one of the company's solocitors, James
Mexicans had contended earnestly against ! k. ( outts, lute Friday afternoon. The
signing any agreement In which they ap- l,or-e was hitched to a light delivery
najiin and its sudden drop into ncarlv
four feet of Bontoti street mire came
without warning. Mr. ( outt. as he saw
association held an enthusiastic meeting i ebstcrville.
last evening in making preparation for Kducation coininittee-T. J. M.Mahon
the coming poultry show which is to beof t)10 machinists, John McAulev of the
held here in Barre on Dec. 2ti, 27 and '-'. quarrvworkers, A. J. Young of 'the tool
Special effort will lie made among the i Pharpcncrs. H. E. Towers of the carpen
mcinbers of the association to interest 1 tcrs.
others to enter the association. The j prPs8 committee President! secre
committees in charge have the premium I jarv
list nearly ready for publication and! Resolution committee Alexander Moir
everything points to one of the nio-t sue- nf tnt rji nite cutters, W.0. Averill of
cessfnl poultry shows ever held by thei,no patera. Arthur Edwards of the
association since it was formed about, 1 ; teamsters. Lawrence Wilson of the bak
years ago. Within the pa-t few weeks Lr , MpUstus M. Rossi of the musi
manv local people have joined the asso- Liana
ciation and manv others are getting ap-
the earth closing in on the horse, had a i
fleeting vision of cabling Fuchii. China.!
to put the comity mandarin on his guard '
for signs of the niising equine. It '
after hours for stonecutters, but
MERRILL CHALMERS.
Barre People United in Marriage by Rer.
B. G. Lipsky.
A quiet wedding tm'k place to day at
i7 Avrs street, when C. L. Merrill and
Mrs. Minnie J. ( halmers were united In
msrriige by Rev. U. Ii. l.ipsky. After a
-hort trip to Burlington and Rutland,
thev will reside on upper Camp street.
CARNEGIE 81 TO-DAY.
from Vancouver. B. C They left the.town man left h re and thev have ten 'orerate with the citv fathers and police ' ru-od for the annual banouet
Pacific cst last" Monday, after tb sailiunaware of the whereabouts of each oth- l.y cautioning their children to slide on BiKhsn folk, w hit h is to be held Ute
cTt frcui their horn in Tokio, Japan, cf. the street designated. Icceiiiber or in Januarjr.
t
Glenugie club will hold its annual meet-las the American troops are withdrawn j workmen hurrying home witnessed the
ing. Officers will be elected and the re- i Mexican troops (.hsl! be moved forward . accident and hastened to the s. Siiitor's
port of the auditing committee, which. t o.-cupy the territory evacuate!. The j assistance. Flnnks were procured an I it
has been closing the club's lsk for the :dispoition of the Mexican troops shall, was with a good deal of diffi.-ulty th.t
rear, will be received. Plans will lie di- 'J M"t to the Mexican commander. ien-the !((.re was extri. st'-d. Appar-n!'y it
the Ural Pershing s to have charge o; th!was badly bruis.il and a pp ion il
in plan of withdrawal and the right to use msn who examined it ee it hi- o; I r-
tbe rfilroa-l to Juarei fvT the uauspor- Jon that serious results mibt follow.
His Friends Say that His Health is Ex
i cellent.
! New York. Nov. 2.. Andrew Carnegie
j. H year old to-day. He planned to
sp.nl the ilar with his family and to
re. cixe a 1 w friend in the afternoon. He
w ii! srT.iki of a birthday dinner to
ii'tht. Hi fr;en!s say that Mr. Car
negie's Lsa'U) i (x j.
ft
