an9.-' .m gon bl----ow
-- ..... ... rta'.'
a.. .. ' -'. n e.i
...o.. . One Cent
NO. 3523. WsAThER: LOCAL SOO WASINiGTON, D. C., SUNDAY, JU 1, 191. ONEC .
HHUGHES
COLO)
HUGHES VICTORY
ASSURED BEFORE
BALLOT IS CAST
Sherman's Withdrawal From Fight
Starts Stampede of Delegations
To Ri*er Votes for Jurist.
FAIRBANKS TRIUMPHS EASILY
Convention Makes Nominations Unanimous.
Senator Harding to Head Hughes
Notification Committee.
By E. C. HILL
(S- ew.. ........)
Chicao, June 10.-For President-Charles Evans Hughes, of New York.
For Vice President-Charles Warren Fairbanks, of Indiana.
With this ticket, nominated this afternoon after the collapse of peace
negotiations with the Progressive party, the Republicans enter the cam
paign of 1916.
Justice Hughes was named on the third balot, the only one taken
today,. receiving -90/9 vda. Col. Roo.wiet receied 18V2. Lode 7. do
%4t 5. Weeks 3.,and La Fellette 3.
Ai GM 663 VT&
Forewif e '6; fa ik was chown on the Art baot for
Vice President. receiving 863 votes. Former Senator Burkett. of Nebraska.
received 106, Senator Berah, of Idaho 7, Gov. Johnson, of California 2,
and William Grant Webster 2.
Just before the convention adjourned at 2 o'clock the nominations
were made unanimous.
Mr. Hughes' managers found their victory waiting at the breakfast
table. Illinois, recognizing the upavailability of any one in the list except
Hughes, had caucused and had deferred to the request of Senator Sherman
that, when the roll call of States was made today, the vote of the State
should be cast for the Associate Justice.
RALTTING NEKE FORMALTrY.
It was certain thereupon that Hughes would be named, and long before
the convention assembled the leaders of almost every State delegation agreed
to throw their strength to the obvious winner. The balloting, therefore, was
a mere formality.
The sweep to Hughes was manifest before the secretary of the con
00NTrINIED oN PAGE 1VE.
Text of Hughes' Statement
Accepting the Nomination
Justice Hughes accepted the Republican nomination for the Presi
dency in the following message to Chairman Harding, of the convention:
Mr. Chairman and delegates:
"I have not desired the nomination. I have wished to remain on the
bench. But in this critical period in our national history, I recognize that
it is your right to summon and that it is my paramount duty to respond.
1ou speak at a time of national exigency, transcending merely parti
san considerations.
"You voice the demand for a dominant, thoroughgoing Americanism,
with firm, protective, upbuilding policies essential to your peace and se
curity; and to that call, in this crisis, I cannot fail to answer with the
pledge of all that is in me to the service of our country.
"Therefore I accept the nomination.
"I stand for the nrm and unflinching maintenance of all the rights of
American citizens on land and sea.
"I neither impugn motives nor underestimate difficulties. But it is
most regretably true that in our foreign relations we have suffered in
calculably from the weak and vaccillating course which has been taken
with regard to Mexico, a course lamentably wrong with regard to both our
rights and our duties.
"We interferred with consistency; and, while seeking to dictate when
we were not concerned we utterly failed to appreciate and discharge our
plain duty tp our own citizens.
"At the outset of the administration the high responsibilities of our
diplomatic intercourse with foreign nations were subordinated to a con
ception of partisan requirements, and we presented to the world a humil
iating spetacle of ineptitude.
'Belted efforts have not availed to recover the influence and pres
tige so unfortunately ,sacrificed,; and brave words have been stripped of
their force by indecision.
"I desire to see our diplomacy restored to its best standards, and to
have these advanced; to have no sacrifices of national interests to parti
san expediency; to have the first ability of the country always at its com
mand,. here and abroad, in its diplomatic .intercourses; to maintain firmly
our rnghts under international law, insisting steadfastly upon all of our
rights as neutrals and fully performing- our international obligations; and
bethe clear, correctness and justiae of our positions, and our manifest
ability and disposition to sustain them, to dignify our place among the na
tions.
'"I stand for an Americanism which knows no ulterior purpose; for a
ntriotism which is single and complete. Whether native, or naturalized,
~fwhatever race or creed, we have but one country, and we do not for
an iustant tolerate any division of allepianice..
"I believe in makin prompt provision to assure absolutely our na
tional security. I believe in preparedness, not .only entirely adequate for
our defense with respect to numbers and equipment, in bothi army and
navy, bet with all thoroughness to the end that i3 each branch of the
sericebe the utmost efficiency under the most competent ad-~
W..sedevoted to the ideals of honrle peace. We wish to po
ute al wieand practical eares for the just settlement'of internation~al
disputes.
"In view of our abiding ideals, there is no danger of- mlitarsismn in
this costs
A -'e~aam
TOLEADG
N[ELM QUITS If
CHARLES EVANS HUGHES, of New York, who yesterday resigned as A--ociate Juice of the
Supreme Court of the United States, and accepted nominsain as tif Republic an.idote for
the Presidency. -
0
-Comrtant. Eant4s & E.s.
Striking Statements of Dominating
Figures in . 0. P. Political Situation
Former Justice Hughes: "I stand for an Aneri- Col. Roosevelt: "If Mr. Hughes' statements
cans, that knows no ulterior purpose; for a pa- - satisfy the committee that it is for the interest of
triotism which is single and complete. * ** We the country that he be elected, they can act ac
have but one country, and we do not, for an instant cordingly and beat my refusa] as deinitely accepted."
tolerate any division of alegiance." * * * * * * *
"I Am Out of Politics," Says Roosevelt,
Crestfallen, Leaving Unanswered the
Query Whether He Will Support Hughes
(ny the Sun News sorvie.) many hours of sleepless night@ spent in moment$ the Colonel stood silent. The
Oyster Bay, N. Y., June 10.-"No. no! his gun room at the other end of a long- correspondents wefe silent. There was
No pictures. I am out of politics." distance wire that ran to Chicago. He an awkward puse. Finally, the Colonel
Col. Roosevelt, his eyes red from lack did not show any of his old-time buoy- broke the silence by ofering to tell them
of sleep and his bronzed face wrinkled ancy a cbeerinsx. none of his im- what he had said over the long distance
from the strain he has undergone, stood petna spirit. As he waved a final telephone to the Progressive Nationat
on the veranda of his home on Sagamore good-bye the reporters and Stoppe committee.
Hill tonight, and uttered those emphatic a Moment to look down toward the bay. Standing with one hand in his pocket
words with a tinge of regret in his tone he gave the impression that he was i ual sort Of way. with no emphatic
He wore khaki breeches, heavy golf through fighting. hut, then the beet of gestu, and no rising Intonation in hib
stockiudgs, low tan shoes and a- Norfolk Col. Roobevets friends know that if voice, he gave a brief of his message
jacket of khaki. The corresponAents the opportunity ofers he Is likely to swing to the Progressives He told of hie con
stood on the lawn, and camera men were back Ito the fight; d if not for him- dtioa e
begging for a pose, but the Colonel, who sl th fr ex nde
had just bidden good-bye to the reporters Ntigt uhs ttmnadlthmko
telling them there was no need of their "hthv o osy eakdwehrte on tstsatr.H
remaining In Oyster Bay sny longer, rw efoeerpreshdacac oridta ftecnlso ftePo
fused to pose. pu-h eto "ohi taL10h
"I am out of polities," he repeated. lg.j
The olonl vsibl wastird aer h s gun milm atie other nd for sea ng- O PG SX
- Hampshire Nina Victii.tnc S wirethara tCaKgo. He 000Xac o Dfne
Londn, Jno 0.-I ha bee esancy andchchererN. YssJuoene.ofhhireatm
limed hattheanier ainehie. hoetiia 5pirit. HAv e wtave a atroi eosrtinee inse
ene, ws snk y amin. i wa an Ng aod-y 'i.. th e 1 outrtend 1.1 ttpp d ywhneal1000erosnrh
nouned odayby he alraty. 56 a tment trksw load wthe bay, ouhteprnia sreeinam
hlie gav the puimeso eptiot he moa rpsdns prs
Freck hu. se te cpoturedty ofesice s uiker tapin
Athens. ea. i~reeas ~ obeeV intoa rfigt; ad in o r Tp reSu
occupied tbe TsiaaL~q~ elfsthennfor soebd else.aeds.u.1.-h wdihbr
re Nroetivdheng to ay.
popuatin I.me~ygre~. eewit a arge nuber f bndit. imoaent the Cle san ntorth Siet. The
pm e ~ Sofar s euIGbe oamu hro o respdentas ee Thlent c re of aos
15 vl~d or rturntbrokoeNU.theio silesyfrig to tell he m
deipia ~ .e~- what hou. had 5 saidovrthe lond dsane
UUwithtelephon I er t Ohio Prgesve Nati on
Stanin wi one S ha nd hipcke
'nac4u.sr o a. ihn epai
gestre,- and norsn -noaini i
'OLITICS
NOMINEE OPENS
1916 CAMPAIGN
WITH BROADSIDE
Jurist's Acceptance Statement Makes
Unequivocal Declaration f r Pre
paredness and Americanism.
ROOSEVELT NO LONGER FACTOR
Progressive Party's Future Problematical in
Face of Chief's Statement---Wicker
sham Off to Oyster Bay.
Roosevelt States His Position
In Declining Nomination
Col. Roosevelt stated his position on the questions of his own
and Mr. Hughes' nominations by their respective conventiou
the following telegram to the Progressive convention chairmas:
"The ProgressiveeConvention: I am very grateful for the hoeor
you confer upon me by nominating me as President. I cannot se
cept it at this time. I do not know the attitude of the ===iaate of
the Republican party toward the vital questions of the day. There
fore, if you desire an immediate decision. I must decline the nomi
nation. But if you prefer it, I suggest that my conditional refusal
to run be placed in the hands of the Progressive National Committee.
"If Mr. Hughes' statements, when he makes them, shall satisfy
the committee that it is for the interest of the country that he be
elected, they can act accordingly and treat my refusal as definitely
accepted. If they are not satisfied they can notify the Progressive
party and at the same time they can confer with me and then deter
mine on whatever action we may severally deem appropriate to meet
the needs of the country. (Signed) THEODORE ROOSEVELT."
The national campaign of 1916 is on.
Charles Evans Hughes, former Supreme Court jurist, is the standard
bearer of the Republican party.
Theodore Roosevelt, defeated in the G. 0. P. convention, is iout of
politics"-to quote his own words-and with hun the Progressive party
I ceases to exist as a factor in national affairs.
Mr. Hughes. nominated on the first ballot of the day yesterday at
Chicago, immediately resigned his seat on the bench and accepted the nom
ination in a telegram to Chairman Harding, of the convention. replete with
ringing expressions on Americanism, preparedness and the Republican plat
form.
PROGRESSIVES ACCOXPLISH NOTHING.
When the Progressive convention adjourned, it had made a record
for noisy demonstrations and nominated Roosevelt for the Presidency. The
I Colonel declined the nomination, and the convention had accomplished
nothing-except to blast the political future of the former President.
The notice from Col. Roosevelt stated that he would not accept until
he had been able to learn the views of the Republican nominee, and that
unless the Progressive convention would hold his nomination at the dis
posal of the Progressive National Committee pending such information, CoL
Roosevelt would be forced to decline the nomination. The Progressives
adopted the course suggested.
George W. Wickersham, former Attorney General, and one of the
leaders in the Hughes pre-convention movement, left Washington on the
Congressional Limited yesterday afternoon, and immediately upon reaching
New York caught a train for Oyster Bay.
HUGHES' STATEMENT UNEQUIVOCAL.
Mr. Hughes' statement. without detracting with "buts," "ifs" or "ands
from the sturdy Republicanism of his position. met every issue which has
been raised by Col. Roosevelt. and yielded nothing in strength or convic.
I tion to the Colonel's utterances on Americanism. preparedness, or the grave
national crisis which they both insist confronts the nation as a result of the
Democratic administration's policy with respect to Mexico and the Eusropean
war.
"I stand for Americanism which knows no ulterior purpose," declared
Mr. Hughes in his telegram to Chairman Harding and the convention, "for
a patriotism which is single and complete. Whether native or naturalized,
of whatever race or creed, we have but one country, and we do not for am
instant tolerate any division of allegiance."
Church Robber Sentenced. British ld Up Cargoes.
Paterson. N. J7., June 10-Wiliam KuP- Berlin (via Bayvilie wIreless). June 16.
fer. B years old, has been sentencied to Several Dutch steamere bound for Ga
from four to fourteen years in the State Dutch Indies. have been held up by the
Prisoa by Judge Abram Kieinert, in Spe- British and forced to unload their car
cia~l Sessions, after he had confessed to goes of analine dye. iays the Oversaas
robbing- ffteen churches in Brooklyn. News Agencey. The intorsnation is at.
New York. Jersey City. Hoboken and tributed to the Dutch paper NH=aasa.
Paterson. __________
* sTe te st. 5.4te and Setea=, o te naPa PSeW7, saa ms
'Baittmore and Ohio. June 10 to 13. b'Eg em Bete
Valid for return until 21th. Convenienut Cmooaud and
serice 0 cse euent: ac- Balimore aiad hi.5.1a
trica~ a Ubted,~egeat.....tJue 1,..ta.~~~
