' THE WEATHER FORECAST. "
Showers to-day and to-morrow; variable
winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 60; lowest, 51.
Dclnltcd wenther, mull and inailnc reports on page I'.'.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 285.
4
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, JUNE 11, 1916. Copyright, 19 10, by the Sim Printing and Publishing Ataoclatlon.
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
HUGHES AND FAIRBANKS NOMINATED; ROOSEVELT IS NAMED
BY BULL MOOSE; WITHHOLDS ACCEPTANCE; JUSTICE RESIGNS;
DECLARES ALL AMERICAN RIGHTS MUST BE MAINTAINED
HUGHES GETS THE NEWS
OF HIS NOMINATION IN
PRIVACY OF HIS FAMILY
Secrecy Is Maintained by the Household Regarding
Character of the Reception Jurist, Smiling,
Greets Newspaper Men, Resigns Quickly
From the Bench and Sets to Work
on His New Task.
Justice Hughes's Resignation
and President's Acceptance
JUSTICE HUGHES'S rcsip-nation from the Supreme Court was ten
dered as follows :
"TO THE PRESIDENT:
"I hereby resign the office of Associate Justice of the Supreme
Court of the United States. I am, sir, respectfully yours,
"CHARLES EVANS HUGHES."
The President accepted Justice Hughes's resignation as follows:
"DEAR MR. JUSTICE HUGHES: I am in receipt of your letter
of resignation and feel constrained to yield to your desire. I, there
fore, accept your resignation as Justice of the Supreme Court of
the United States to tnkc effect at once. Sincerely yours,
"WOODROW WILSON."
COLONEL "OUT
OF POLITICS,"
HE SAYS SADLY
Hoosevelt. Worn by the
Campaign, Admits Deci
sion Is Not Final.
SILENT AS TO HUGHES;
WAITS PARTY'S ACTION
wasIIIMITun. June If. Associate Jus
Ixi I Inched, who received the announce
inent of his nomination at his homo,
promptly n-nt to the President his reslg
Hal Ion as a member of the Supreme
Court and MHin afterward In a message
to Chairman Harding of the cimvcnilnn
announced Ins acceptance with n state
ment of the principles upon whliih he
stands as a candidate.
Hi letter of resignation j brief.
In h.s message to Chairman Harding
thj jut ist declared that he hail nut di
stud the nomination and that he had
Killed to remain on the bench. He
then set forth his stand on American
!n:, preparedness and other questions
ul policy
The eventful afternoon in the Hughes
l:uusehold began as quietly an any other
to all outward appearancis. Justice
Hughes, who hi'd persistently lefifed to
tee newspaper men since the attention
ol the co'.'ntiy had been centred upun
i.ini as a rresldenti.il possibility. iu- ,
nulned with the members of his family
or. the upper floors of the house on Six
teenth street.
In the library on the lower lloor were
i doien newspaper men and the Jus
lies secietary, who received over the
tilephonc from the otllccs of the press
a- eolations bulletins on the progress
cf the voting. These were brought to
Justice Hughes as rapidly as they came
.ii
What went on within the- Hughes
f mlly circle when early reports were
i.'-elved Indicating the crumbling away
cf the oppostltlon to his nomination and
Ut withdrawn! of the favorite sons omy
tl-. members of the family themselves
1, ,nw. Up to that moment Justice
Hughes remained Isolated and uncom
municative. News of the Nomlnntlon.
When the bulletins came In stating
that the voting was under way. and
ftmlly that the nomination was clinched
with New Jersey's vote. Iwrence Hreen,
the Justice's private secretary, bolted
upstairs.
He returned almost Immediately, fol
lowing him came Justice Hughe, smll
inr but as calm and self-contained as
any one of the group that met him with
outstretched hands at the foot of the
ttalruay,
"1 only know." he said, "what you
ftntlemen have told me. There Is noth
ing '0 be said now. I shall havo a
statement for you at 3 o'clock."
Tim brief appearance, before the new.s.
l-aper men Indicated that the Republican
ennillilate bad already abandoned the
J-j'l ial attitude. He promptly took
rhiirce of the Munition, went at the task
lr skly but quietly. The same demeanor
a apparent when be saw about forty
n.-ttspaper men who gathetecl at his
house later on to rcce've his statement.
The. announcement of the nomination
0? Justice Hughes appeared to be the
Hgnst for the dispelling of the calm
which had hitherto prevailed In the
M' . of the ied brick bouse on S.
"eiith s.reet. Justice Hughes's neighbor
rosi the street unfurled two laige Hags
from his windows.
I'a ."Ing automobiles stopped at the
owner or made a dolour to pass the
doorway
' Tne announcement of the nomination
as received at the Hughes home at
1 2 j Seven minutes later the first
mi -enger boy arrived with a telegram,
t'ie llrst of what became afterwaid an
Ii" stream, rrom that time on the
mail group of curious persons gathered
f. the corner grew Into a crowd and the
ft 'a n of congratulatory messages be
"ii a deluge.
I ifii' ii Himhes gave out the text of
'Message to Chairman Harding with
on' jtnment. but with an apology for
hi. tid facilities for making copies
' mini afforded. It was made clear,
" ei that his reslgnitlou had been
" i i the White House lefnre cognl
ia i,id been taketi of the net of the
1 T i convention.
' it Hughes's letter of resignation
was despatched to the White House by
n essenger and handed to Mr. Tumulty,
the President's secretary
, The President was with Mrs. Wilson
In the White House when Mr. Tumulty
handed him the resignation. He dis
played no surprise when he received It
and Immediately summoned his stenog
rapher to dictate the acceptance, which
was despatched to Justice Hughes's rest
deuce by a messenger.
o Comment at While House.
None of the White House official
would make any comment on the Jus
llie's nomination or his resignation from
the Supreir.e bench. It Is known, how
ever, that the President has had cordial
relations with Mr. Hughes throughout
the present Administration.
Mr. Wilson remained In the White
House throughout the day. Contrary
to his usual custom of making Saturday
a holiday, he received two iHHtlnr callers:
These were Senator Walsh of Montuni,
who Is writing the planks of the St.
louls platform dealing with domestic
legislation, and Senator OIHe James of
Kentucky, who Is to act as permanent
chairman at St. Louis.
Senator Walsh read over the tentative
draft of that part of the platform en
trusted to him and Senator James read
the Democratic campaign speech to be
delivered by him when he accepts the
gavel of the Democratic convention from
the hands of Temporary Chairman Mar
tin H. Glynn. During the day the Presi
dent had been In touch with the situa
tion at Chicago and Oyster Hay through
frequent bulletins received by telegraph
at the White House.
The President's first public utterance
after the Chicago convention will be his
speech to the graduating class of the
United States Military Academy at West
Point on Tuesday. Officials are of the
opinion that the President In that ad
dress will at least give general consid
eration to the statement made by Jus
tice Hughes.
The President Is preparing an address
on Americanism, to be delivered In
Washington on Flag Day, June 14, when
he will march as a private citizen in a
preparedness parade.
Some of the Conurntulatlons.
Telegrams of congratulation poured
In upon Justice Hughes from the de
fenled favorite sons, from Hoosevelt
delegates to the convention and from
old time Republicans, among them ex
Senator CJeorgc K. lMniunds of Vermont
Among the messages received were
the following.
"I congratulate you oil a testimonial
to your standing as a statesman, citizen
and patriot unique and unexampled In
the history of American politics and I
felicitate the country on an opportunity
it will certainly embrace. William JI.
Tuft."
"I most heartily congratulate you upon
your selection as thu leader or the lie
publican party In the present nntional
te-M. Charles v. PalibankB."
"Hearty -ongratulatlons and best
wishes. 111 hu Root"
"Vou have my sincere corgi alula
tlon. I Kiall do my utmost to aid you
lining campaign and during jour. term
is President, which will follow. John
W. Weeks."
"I congratulate jou most heartily
upon your nomination and confidently
predict your ttlumplianl election. rneo
dore K. Hurton."
"Congratulations and assurances of
earnest and cordial support. P. C.
Knox."
"The undersigned delegates from Colo
nido who supported Col. Roosevelt for
the nomination cordially congratulate
you and assure you of our earnest sup.
noi l.- -P. II. Stewart. K. C, Schuyler,
A. M. Stevenson. R. W. Snltli, Daniel
Tailor. J. K. Hllng."
"I congratulate the country with nil my
heart nnd earnestly beg you to accept
In which case feel mornll certain you
will win by a gicat majority. CJeorgc P.
I-'ilniunds."
"I congratulate you heartily on your
nomination and shall do nil In my power
lo further nur election. uenry i
.Stlnison."
FIPST
SFXQS'f)
THIRD
FOURTH
ni m
SlW
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS:
Paso..
GerrINew . J) 20
'Spon.ng. Kenncli. Automobile! ,i
-Society, Drima, Faihiorit, SchooW, Rcwrti . . . . . .12
Pictorial Mgiine 8
Special leature, Uooki. QuerieJ. Chen . .12
Foreign. Real Eitale, Gardtm. Poultry, Financial. Probltmi . , 8
Tola!
60
Rtadtn or ntictJealm ich Jo not rtctto all of thai itcthnt uill tonftr a Jatot
"ii "The Sun" try nitlfytnt the PuhlkaUon Dtpattment at omi hy the phont
(UOO Beekman) ani i ufnf ttcUont velll hi promptly fotteatiti if pottlUe.
OrsTKii Hat, June 10. "No, no! No
pictures ! I am out of politics."
Theodore Roosevelt, his eyes red from
lack of aleep and his bronzed face
wrinkled from the strain lie has under
gone, stood on the veranda of his home
on Sagamore Hill this evening and
uttered those emphatic words with a
tinge of regret In his tone. He wore
khaki breeches, heavy golf stockings,
low tan shoes and a Norfolk Jacket of
khaki. The newspaper correspondents
stood on the lawn and camera men were
begging for n pose, but the Colonel, who '
had just bidden good-by to the reporters, I
telling them there) was no need of their
remaining In Oyster Hay any longer, ,
refused to pose.
"I am out of politics," he repeated.
Col. Roosevelt visibly was tired after i
the many hours of sleepless nights spent I
In his gunroom at the other end of a :
long distance telephone wire that ran to '
Chicago. He did not show any of his '
old time buoyancy and cheerlness, none
of his Impetuous spirit.
They Kind a I'hmiKril Man.
As he waved a final good-by to the '
reporters and stopped a moment to look t
down toward the bay he (save the lm-J
presslon that he waw through lighting ;
but then, the best of Col. Roosevelt's I
friends knew that if the opportunity i
offers he Is likely to swing back Into the
tight, and If not for himself, then for
un..lw..l.. all- I
fU.ll ,VM i t .... .
Timt was the parting scene. When
the. correspondents trooped up to Saga
more Hilt at 0 o'clock in accordance
with word received at Oyster Hay they
found the Colonel much changed from
yesterday They knew of the mesage 1
which he had sent to the Progressive
convention saying he could not accept
the Progressive nomination at this time
and suggesting that his conditional re
fusal be placed In the hands of the Pro
gressive committee. They felt that he
naturally could not be pleased with the
day's events nt Chicago, but as they
ooked at him and 'noted the wearieii
expression on his face they realized that '
he had taken the situation more poign
antly than ho cared to show. Col, (
Roosevelt looked nt the correspondents
and grinned not the grin of yesterday j
nut a gnosl or it,
"What have 1 got to say?" he asked
beforo the reporters had a ehanre to put
the question. "Nothing at nil. Nothing"
Tells of 111 Decision.
The sinlle died away and for several '
moments Col. Roosevelt stood silent. The
correspondents also were silent. There .
was an awkward pause-. The reporters i
looked at the Colonel Incredulously and I
waited. Finally he broke the silence
by offering to tell them what he had
said over the long distance telephone to
the Progressive National Committee.
Sinmllnz with one hand In his pocket In
a casual sort of way. with no emphatic
gesture and no rising Intonation In his
voice, ho gave a brief resume of his
message to the Progressives.
Col. Roosevelt told of his conditional
refusal and explained he had told the
committee to consider Justice HuKhcs'tt
statement nnd let him know whether
they found It satisfactory. He said that
If the conclusion of the lYogresslve com
mittee was Hittafdctory to him, then the
rondltlonnl iefus.il would become ah-,
solute.
'.f l.i.n I. ... .Iia T.q.li' tn flaililn " ho '
I Hair h . luc ,. j w ub.uv. ..-
said. I
"Then jour decision l not final yetf'j
"No, my decision Is not final yet." he i
said In a hopeless sort of way. as if he !
tie retieatlng something somebody else
had Fiild rather than n sentiment of his
f.wn. Then, strnkhtenltig up a little, he
said with a show of vigor:
"I am not going to yield iay gravel."
"And will you eay nothlrsr about Jus
tice Hughes's statement?" he was asked.
Will Have othlnit .More to Say.
No, he would say nothing. Asked If
ho had nny Idea as to when the Pro
gressive committee would communicate
with him, he said he had none, He
pointed nut Hint his suggestion of Sen
ntor Lodge ns a compromise candidate
had been presented to the Republican
convention before the final ballot had
been taken. Ho explained Unit at 4
o'clock this morning over the telephone
he talked with two of the Progressive
mid two of the Republican conferees
mid that then he had made the com
pinmlse suggestion, At the time, said
Col, Roosevelt, the suggestion seemed
to be Just what the Republican conferees
wanted, but later the same confercea
.went back to the convention and Joined
In the nomination of Justice Hughes.
"And now, gentlemen," he said,
rousing himself, "I'll say good-by,
There's no use of you coming up here
again or staying In town." He stepped
forward, holding out his hand to the
nearest newspaper man. "I'll have noth
ing lo say,"
Leaves It lo III Partr.
"Hut you'll have something to aay
when tl)e Progressive committee report
to you?" he win asked.
"Maybe, but that news will come from
them, fluod-by."
Then began a series of vlgoroua handshakings.
"I hate lo see you go for you add
to the scenic features of fiter Jlay,"
He followed the conesndents out
of the porch, stooel -there as they trooped
1
Convention Relapses Into Apathy as Results
Are Announced-Old Guard, Unable to Con
trol Delegates, Surrenders for the Sake
of Harmony Within the Party.
SELECTION OF HEAD OF TICKET
CREATES WHITMAN N. Y. LEADER
'Former Vice-President From Indiana Chosen to Run
, Again on First Ballot Colorado Leads Jump to
Hughes Choice Assured When Missouri
. Casts Her Vote.
Wl
Cup;, right to Harrit A Cwlnc
CHARLES EVANS HUGHES.
'", riKht by llrltzman.
CHARLES WARREN FAIRBANKS.
JUSTICE HUGHES'S ACCEPTANCE.
ItTJNOALOK TEA (JU)HlriEI).
Now bttttr than aver lie. W.Atv.
MR. CHAIRMAN AND DKl.KCiATKS: I have not
eleslred the nomination. I have wished to
remain on the bench, but In this critical
perlixl of our nntlonnl history I recognize that It 1
your right to summon and that It l my paramount duty
to respond.
You speult at u time of national exigency transcend
ing merely partisan consideration. You voice the de
mand for n dominant, thnroughgolnfr Americanism with
firm prote-ctlve- upbuilding policies essential to your
peace and security; and to that call In this crisis I can
nut fall to answer with the pletlge eif all that Is in me
to the service of our country. Therefore I ccet the
nomination.
Our Weakness in Maslco.
1 stand for the firm and unflnchlng mntiilcnance of
nil the rights of American citizens on land anil sen.
I neither Impugn meitlves nor underestimate difficul
ties. Hut It Is most regrettably true that in our foreign
relations we havo suffered incalculably from the weal;
nnd vacillating course- which has been taken with re
garel to Mexico, a course lamentably wrong with re
gard to both our rights and our duties.
We Interfered without consistency, nnd while seek
ing to dictate when w wito not concerned wo utterly
failed to miprcclnte and discharge our plain duty to
our own citizens. At the outset of the Administration
the Ugh responsibilities of our diplomatic Intercourse
with foreign nations were subordinated to a concep
tion of partisan tveiulrements and we presented to the
world a humiliating spectacle, of Ineptitude. Related
efforts have nut availed to recover the Influence and
prestige so unfortunately sacrificed, and brnve words
have not Ixen stripped of their force by Indecision.
I desire to see our diplomacy restored to Its best
stnndnrtls nnd tn have these advanced; to have no
sacrifices of national Interests to partisan expediency,
to have the first ability of the country always nt its
command, here nnd abroad, in diplomatic Intercourse;
to maintain firmly our rights under International law,
Insisting steadfastly upon all our rights as neutrals,
and fully performing our International obligations; and
by the clear correctness and Justice of our position and
our manifest ability nnd disposition to sustain them
to dignify our place among the nations.
I stand for an Amerlcnnlsm which knows no ulterior
purpose, for a patriotism which Is single and complete.
Whether native or naturalized, of whatever nice or
creed, we have but erne country nnd we do not for tin
instant tolerate nny division of ulleulanci'.
"Atturc Absolutely Our Security."
I believe In making prompt provision to assure abso
lutely our nntional security. I believe In preparedness,
not only entirely nde(unte for our defence with respect
to numbers and equipment, In both nrmy unci navy,
hut with all thoroughness to the end that In each branch
of the service there may bo the utmost efficiency under
the most competent administrative heads. W are.
devoted to the ideals of honorable peace. We wish to
promote nil wisp and practical measures for tho Just
settlement of International peace. In view of our abid
ing ideals, there Is no dangvr of militarism In this coun
try. We huve no policies if aggression; no lust for
territory; no real for strife. It is in this spirit that
we demand adequate provision for national defence,
and we condemn the Inexcusable neglect that lias been
shown in this matter of first national Importance. We
must have the strength which self-respect demands,
the strength of nn efficient nation ready for every
emergency.
Our preparation must be Industrial and economic us
well as military. Our severest test will come after the
war is over. Wo must make a fair and wise readjust
ment of the tariff, In nccordnne-e with sound protective
principle, to Insure our economic Importance and to
maintain American standards of living. We must con
serve the best Interests of labor, realizing that In de
uocracy patriotlum and national' strength must be
rooted lu even handed Justle-e. In preventing, as we
must, unjust discrimination nnd monopolistic practices
wc must still be zealous to assure the foundations of
honest business. Particularly should wo seek the ex
pansion of foreign trade.
Wo must not throttle enterprise here, or abroad, but
lather promote It and take pride In honorable achieve
ment. We must take up the serious problems of trans
portation, of Interstate and foreign commerce In a
sensible and candid manner and provide an enduring
basis for prosperity by the Intelligent use of the con
stitutional isjwers of Congress so ns adequately to pro
tect the public on the one hand and on the other to
conserve the essential Instrumentalities of progress.
The Whole Platform Approved.
I stand for the principles of our civil service laws.
In every department of government the highest effi
ciency must Ik Insisted upon, l'or nil laws nnd pro
grammes are vain without efficient and lmpurtlnl ad
ministration. I cannot within the limits of this statement speak
upon nil the subjects that will require attention. I
can only say that I fully Indorse the platform you have
ailoped,
I deeply appreciate the responsibility you impose. I
should have been glad to have that responsibility placed
upon another. Hut 1 shall undertake to meet It, grate
ful for the confidence you exprrss. I sincerely trust
thnt ull former dlfferene'es may In forgotten and that
we may have unlti'd effort In n patriotic realization of
our national need and opportunity.
I have resigned my Judicial tiffin and I am ready
to devote mself unreservedly to the iNimpulgn.
CllAKLi:S K. HUOIIKS.
Washington, .luno 10.
CHICAGO, June 10. l'or President, Charles Evans Hughes of New
Vork.
( For Vice-President, Charles Warren Fairbanks of Indiana.
With this ticket nominated this afternoon after the collapse of peace
, negotiations with the Progressive party the Republicans enter the cam
paign or 1910.
Justice Hughes was named on the third ballot, the first and only one
taken to-day, receiving 1)4014 votes. Col. Rousevelt received 18V4, Sena
tor Lodge 7, Gen. du Pont 5, Senator Weeks .! and Senator La Follctte .?.
. Former Vice-President Fairbanks was chosen on the first ballot for
. .cc.ucm, it-ci-iving ouj votes. cornier Senntor Burkctt of
, Nebraska received 108. Senator Borah of Idaho 7. Gov. Johnson of Cali
forma 2 and William Grant Webster '1.
An appearance of harmony within the party was presented when,
just before the convention adjourned nt '2. P. M., the nominations were
made unanimous. It was acciamr.tion without heartiness, without zest
without enthusiasm.
Having made Justice Hughes their candidate solely because thev
i were unable to concentrate on any other man the leaders remained gluni
when the choice was registered and the delegates relapsed into apathv.
They had completed the business suggested by the logic of the situation,
but they were r inspired to cheer.
Hie iiistuni all . ape of meeting the'.
i l'rngr..,VMM ,.., .?.L - ,.rd d1 ' ci
i '""-reel the ' nl "j j tlZZ
Hughe was inevitable T-ie dominant . vt.nitn were made to oisaiilze
linen In the party, the .so-culied "Old i!"'1?' urou"J the hall, but the dele.
I iT.I." could control the dogates to a I ulT k ll'n!,lAm fi"' "'"
certain i,ol. ,.t. ..... .u ..... 1 " V" "' .nciu ivas a little
. uini jiuuii. iuiu rjniiuuif ini'i-njii;, ti
ROOSEVELT'S REPLY TO THE PROGRESSIVES.
Here Is the message sent by Col. Roosevelt
to the Progressive convention conditionally declin
ing the nomination:
"To the Progressive Convention :
"I am very grateful for the honor you confer
upon me by nominating me as President. I cannot
accept it at this time. I do not know the attitude of
tho candidate of the Republican party toward the
vital questions of the day.
"Therefore, if you desire an immediate de
cision, I must decline the nomination. Iiut if you
prefer it, I suggest that my conditional refusal to
run be placed in the hands of the Progressive Na
tional Committee.
"If Mr. Hughes's statements when he makes
them shall satisfy the Progressive National Com
mittee that it is for the interest of the country that
he be elected, they can act accordingly and treat
my refusal as definitely accepted.
"If not satisfied, they can so notify the Progres
sive party and at the same time they can confer
with me and then determine on whatever action we
may severally deem appropriate to meet the needs of
tho country.
"THEODORE ROOSEVELT."
"en leached. The deleca'es. with lit.
II- enthusiasm for Justice 1 Inches per
ein.ill . had become convinced that he
s the only man ttl n unco of
eating the I'lesidvnt They would
have taken orders and voted for fa
Mrite sons for a number ifr ballots, but
eventually they would hac turned to
Justice Hughes, since tin leaders
...... i.i .
uui ueiiver tnelf votes to any i
single favorite son they saved time and
temper bj voliintat lly breaking tin
Jam.
Hefoie they yielded, though, they had
tried to unite th.-lr strength on almost
everybody lu the field as agilnst Jus.
tlce Hughes. They did not want him
ns the party nominee-, but they found
they were uuible to deliver their dele-gate?
Mr Hushes'
loiinii their victory waiting
bmikfiust table Illinois, recognising
the unawiilabllity f any one In the list
except Justice Hushes, had caucused
and had deferred to th. reiimxt of
Senator Shermiu thnt when the toll
e'.ill of States was mad., to-day the vote
of the State should lx- cast for the A.s
soclate Justice. It was certain there
upon that Justice Hughes would bo
named nnd long before the roinentlon
! assi milled the leaders of almost even-
hl.tte delegation ayived to throw their I
strength to tin obvious winner Tho I
balloting therefore wis lt men. f1Pr. i
inallly. j
The sweep to Justice Hughes w.us j
manifest before the secietary of tho 1
convention had flung his call to half a
dozen Stales s iap!dl a.- their States
nt it ...in.,, i.,
"ml gusts and got nowhere. Kor' the
newt, pnrt the ma-.s of delegai. - t,.,l
ill the aisles
or upon their chairs, look-
volunteer managers
1 " eee wnat otiiiis were do
ing and l.c.-imK ,lxtl,.t themse Res
.-oim. of ii,,.,,, .-t .K-l th. ir .'hitis in a
perplexed it f way Manv h,.,j K
troubled look In their e,... Nowhere
was perceptible imv of tli- slambam.
downright enthusiasm wnlcn often iv.
lows in the nomln.itioii ,,f ,, landldne
I d' I 'I evident
Possibly the ilisiiulf tint: news that
Ihe Progte.s,iv..s had nominated Col.
I.ooevelt had something t.. do with l!ie
depression and pesinilni inaiilfest.il
cry where upon the Hour After its
few brief moments of eirement the
enly real and actual thrill developed bv
the national Itepiibiu-nii convention was
Friday afternoon when the name of
Col. Itoi.-evelt was wildly entered for
forty-five minutes th,. convention
slumped luil, into the mental state of
Wednesda. the opening day. It is
doubtful If a candidate was ever notni-
at the ,1!lt',l such
ilritles fashion. It
is iioiiutful if ti e end of an imp.utan
convention hmi- illsplnwd meh heaviness-
It was the on, thlnu. which
le.illy stood on; when the i onv eiumn
(nine to a close VUitor- ruinmetitiil
on It llepuhhcan leader w,.re
tin-bed bv I;, iiltl.inign they liad
rather expected the delegates to wak
up at the last moment and they were
amazed and perturbed when the wait
nig up failed to inatei lalle
sill-prlsi fur the Deleunles.
down the. Mel and It was then that
the photographer asKCit nun to pose aim
got the reply:
"No, no! No pictures. I am out of
politics."
As the men turned down the road I hey
saw Cnl. Hoosevelt walk slowly back
Into the house, leaving unanswered the
Uestlon as to whether ho would sup
port Justice Hughes,
According to word received here to
night eieorge W. Wlekersli.ini, formeily
Altorney-denetal, left New Vork on tho
train due at Oynter Hay nt 10 152 P. M.
It was reported that ha was coming ns
an emlssaty from Justice Hughes to be
seech Col. Hoonevelt's support for the
Republican nominee, but when the train
arrived Mr. Wlckersham was not in
board. I-yforts were made to discover If
tie had left the train at dome station on
the way to Oyster Hoy to complete the
journey by automobile, hut at a late hour
nothing definite had ben learned.
ROOT PRAISES HUGHES.
competent to deal with the seilou.t cuu
dltluns confronting the GovernincMit of
our country "
llile, Hiperlencrri, CournKenu
mill Amerlenn lo Core," He n. :
Utii!a, N. V., June 10. Vnril of the i
nomination of Justice Hughes leached Cnrlt Mnkrbuletrr Una It If Three
$500,000 TO BET 0'. WILSON.
ex. Senator Kllhu Hoot at his summer
-rtfLf. 4r In L'la.1.1
home on College Hill, Clinton. Mr. Hoot ... .
made this statement to-night: 1 liftrr 1 Iminpsein. ns stakeholder on
"It Ih plain that Mr. Ilunhes has "' ''V!,1!' ,1 ,my "l ."morrow more.
Iknrt.i iitiiiil i.i.t,..! l.nnllHo pfeut liliiMM nf "'ll -
the rank and file of the Republican
party, tho constituents of the delegates,
considered him tho best man and wanted
him for their candidate. Ho is able,
experienced, courageous, high minded
nnd American tn tho core, He will be
Io.mi1 to the platform upon which ho
has been nominated, and with which,
I am sure, be agrees.
"I am coundeiit that he will be elected
and will be President of high (jusllty,
imijimii won and lost on the, uoml.
nations,
He re-perls that If both Hughes ami
Hoosevelt accept the nominations of the
(1. tl. P, and the Progiesslves he has
been nsked to act as stakeholder of
I.IOO.OOO on Wilson to be elected at odds
of .r. to 3
PA IS "si FIKKWORK
Inr lli Fnurth
UIIDKIl EAR1.T.
It I'srk Piic. ieV.
Tile 'ili.il ,n, ). j., .n,i, rom
synijitilllis of interest ills.jl.'e veil bv the
I delegates I'll- llgi.t n.is all ovei In
.then, lint i lei, gate, didn't know ii.
They came tumping into the I'ub-. inn ut
I II A M . null ilieeie.i In the first sim-
light that i'h,. ago ha I nn.irdiil in t
week, ami seemed i,, l under tlie iru-pl'-s-jon
that l'n- tlgln Has Mill oi.
ill the smia . of Ihlnss the filial bal
i lui takei .ii light b.nl ,efi the ., ec.
i linn r.f tin. , ..tuli.l!.!., i .,..,,1 i .u..
were reached the managers for tin fa-' majority nf the il.-h gale ,.,',. ,,. ,,t
vorlte sons withdrew the names of '"" "nvlnml that Mi Hughes would )..
their candidates. Senator Weeks f XT , t "Zl
Massachusetts speaking fi-r tllmcf, an -Moose and t i ... i lie i.it, .nl i.in ,nn,-it
unusual p.oce.-dlng. Ileptes-.i.ativ. j l,,.!hn .'t, s,,""v """,wr "J
'1 ' "i lliiosei.l .No- ime man nut ,,f
Hodeiiberg withdrawing Senator Slier-, tnenti m tne who. .issemblaj,- nf
man, National Committeeman Steten-: "'''irl " 'l1"";""1 knew thnt the r.oui
- ,, , , , , , , , ihlitmii o' C.i.ules '''.ins Hughes nils
son of olorado giving Ins handful of ngned. n-aled and r,..h f, d.-luerv
Hoosevelt votes Injustice Hughes and They might have gu.-..sed t fioui th-1
llnv, Willis of Ohio tnkliiiT Mr. Fnlr-'iniie fail .if I". auk IlitchisickV jaunty
bnnks out of the race ind Sen itor I be.iiuig .Mr lilt, In.., U. ilrst In ih"
Wadsworth of New Vork fllmlnatlnc l'"1'1. "r 'ii.iii.ikhh of th..
Mr Hoot i Hughes iiioietnetii, the til -t iitaelt. a"
No obstacle leniaitied aft-r the w,t. . i,"'!;;;;,;' t
druwal of these gentlemen had been . n,,,,, (,r tll(. , omentum engaged in th.
accomplished ns griieefull, as possible, agi.e.it.le business of livening coi.gml
Tlie mass was in ponderous motion and illations Men who haven't bnthneil ti
nil surging one way n was impres- : speai in .u huciicik k ioi- tour t.ii-.
slve but cold, Interesting but not In tho
lenst inspiring. As great blocks nf
delegate were thrown to Justice
Hughes tlie convention, with every op
portunity t" take tire, remained frigid.
Ilntliiislnsm Mill Uisent.
or more jiiiiugneii inioilgn Hie throng nl
delegates to grasp his li.iml and te'l Inui
what a gie.it man In- was, him ms,.
how astute. mw faiseeing
Men who iiaie been ih.uglng up ,,e,,
down .Madison avenue i nlletillng the la
bors nf Mr llitchi-oik w,-te frantliwllt
eager to assure hint that all njuug tin v
Mnklng tho be-.st of a .situation which had been coinin.eil of a Hughes Uciiu-y
was obviously disagreeable the men -i"d of his, llitih.nek s. exceii.nt iN,ii
who had controlled the convention up ,'"0'1 "r ll;l,""rJ bniite...-.i i .,.
,o the point of the Hug. tomlnatlon ,1 'ili-TId' .Z'M
tried to stir the delegates tn Home Inill- xllVH) a hiui.lsh.iKei , he gvx
cation of gratification, nr at lemt of g,ip fl. K,,,. ,t U,,-.,. w.is rath r n
satisfaction. A great point was mailn.hatlrie.il gleam in lu- 1 ght ecs, the
over tlie si-lection of Senator Warren suspicion or a ilmin h. tiun i.ppm
(1 Harding of Ohio, chairman of the muuili and the suggestion of .i-v.-u..
convention, ns lif-nd of the t-otnmilli. ; ". M" mil stialght llgtue
to inform ...nst.ee Hughes f ,,,h ,, - nr rj
nation and of tin. apiioinliiM-ui of r-eni- r ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,, w lr M ,,. ,.,
tor William K, lt'irnh of Idaho as head ,. , , ,.,. , ,vu .,i ea e
Of Ihe committee tn notify Mr Fair- n me mu ik lie w.io.eil '. n l- 1
banks, oHt neither delegates nor vial, nominating - e is j '! a
1.
