WE 4 THE R
MARXE 16
MEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
June 7, 27.25.
I20N A Generally
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19, NO. 13.
EISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, JUNE 11, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
mi
iSat0JP
Ufci ,WPs3P Sift
I R. REFUSES
Hill
Bf BULL
MOOSE
Five Minutes After Progress
ives Nominate Him He
Turns Them Down And
They Adjourn Leader less
FOLLOWERS DUMB
FOUNDED BY ACTION
Rcosevelt May Back Hughes,
But Third Party Men Are
Divided; Squelched, They
Fcld Tents And Steal Away
CHICAGO. June 10 The Progres
sive national committee elected and j
executive committee tonight and di- j
cided unanimously to hold another j
meeting June Z in Chicago. i nat
another meeting is to be held vas
taken as an indication that no settle
ment had been reached as to whether
Colonel Roosevelt's name woijld re
main on the ticket.
AUDITORIUM, CHICAGO, June
10 Colonel Roosevelt was nomi
nated today by the Progressive na- .
tional convention after four days
of uproar and tumult 'in which
the delegates never wavered in
allegiance or cast a passing
glance upon another man.
Three minutes before the con
vention adjourned until another
time. Chairmon Raymond Robins
read to them a brief message from
Oyster Bay in which Mr. Roose
velt declined to accept the nomi
nation at this time. Few of the -thousands
in the vast Auditorium,
some of whom had seen the Colo
nel named in an even w'lder burst
of enthusiasm four years aqo
realized when Robins rapped his
gavel at 5:48 and declared the
convention adjourned sine die that
in a few hours or a few weeks
they might be party without the
one leader to" whom they had
come to Chicago to give the pledge
of loyalty and faith.
The significance of Colonel Roose
velt's message with Its announcement
that if the Progressive national com
mittee found the subsequent statement
of Char'es Evans Hughes the Repub
lican standard bearer, to its liking,
his non-acceptance of the Progressive
nomination should stand, his last
word, was lost in that tired throng,
worn oil) by its own enthusiasm, by
long delavs over peace parleys with
the Republicans and by the discus
sion of a platform on which it must
go into the field, if at all against,
ro'h the forces of Democracy and
Republicanism.
None of the feeling that they had
them later betrayed, when they had j
opportunity to digest the Colonel's
ststeT.ent had time to flare out when
the gavel feH. They trooped out into
Chicago's streets for home while the
band played faintly and the flags that
had flaunted so proudly through all
the so stormy sessions were folded
and the banners put away.
Pefore they left the hall the dele
rates remembered one of the essen
tials of a campaign. In response to
the spur of the leaders they promised
more than J80.000 to carry on the
fight. It was pledged in enthusiasm
and the contributions tumbled in al
most as fast as they could be re
corded. The only protest of the day came a
few minutes before the leaflets read
the announcement from Colonel Roos
evelt when William Flynn of I'iltsburg
proposed the adoption of a rule which
permits the national committee to fill
the vacancies on the ticket. There
was a chorus of "noes" from the hall
but it was lost in the explanations of
those who stood upon the platform
that this was but a perfunctory thing
done at all national conventions to
provide for "death or other casual
ties." It was adopted then imme
diately. The communication from Oyster
Hay, known to ali leaders for at least
an hour before it was presented was
read to the convention in a moment of
tense dramatic silence. The gavel
fell with a last bank, -almost as il
was finished.
y Elect New Officers
CHICAGO. June 10. After a stormy
session lasting over three hours the
ganized tonieht by re-electing Victor
Murdoik of Kansas chairman and O.
K. Davis, secretary. Mathew Hale of
Massachusetts was chosen vice chair
man and E. H. Hooker of New York
treasurer.
The new executive committeemen
are Geo. W. Perkins of New York,
Wm. Flynn of Pennsylvania; Mathew
Hale of Massachusetts: Harold L.
Ickes of Illinois: Wm. Allen White of
Kansas; Pearl Wight of Louisiana;
Chester H. Rowell of California: Ev--ret
Colby of New Jersey and C. IX
Polk of Michigan.
HUGHES STEPS H 8ENGH
ID ACCEPTS I1IT1
V
COURT SAYS 0. 0.
T
. . 7 j I f ' .
Decision JI rederal Court
Compels Railways To Haul
I c . n j j
IntO Otate Liquors Urdered
For Personal Use
(By Review Leased Wirei
KANSAS CITY, Mo, June 10.
The federal court today ordered
the transportation companies to
deliver beer and whiskey ordered
from Schiller Brothers for per
sonal use."
This message was received last
(evening bv the Review and if true, it
, , - ,
clears up a great amount of adver-
tising done by the Kansas ( uy liquor
firm and much other speculation in
dulged in during the past few weeks
in every section of the state of Arizona.
-rauTVl I
H r ; t l i
w I - I 1
1 'vt jf 4-' ft
IS
BOOZE INTO
ARIZONA
Judging from the brief message, re- President Wilson accepted the resigna
ceived from Kansas City, the deeis- ,, . nlv nlmnst ., hr,,,f
ion will effect all shipments of linuor narf,ntiy Vr. ITuphes' letter was
for personal use intb the stale. The franled so thp.t the President miuht
complaining company, some weeks bP snved the embarrassment of ex
ago. advertised for business in the prPBsinc rrpr.t or nuking more than
state of Arizona and guaranteed dc- eirrinl reply.
livery. They at once mandamused the j ..j hprpr,v erii"n the office or no
transportation companies and. accord- Fr,rint. tustf'-e rf the Simrwrn court
ing to the telegram, the federal court 0r the T'pitpd State." he wrote, to
granted the application. . j which the President renlied:
If the decision is as broad as it Ffertive at 'Once,
promises to be the transportation com- " am jn rerplnt of voit letter or
panies will have some definite court reslonntl'in and feel constntined to
action to base their acceptance of yield to your deire. I therefore fc
liquor tor delivery in the state. The pent your resignation si InstW or the
Santa Fe orficials, recently in Pres-; .unreme rourt of the Pnitcd States to
cott. declared their line would not ac- tave' effect at once."
cept liquor until the federal court had j ' No plans hpve been made hv the
decided the matter. r'im'nee for the summer. Whether
Detailed information as to th efft Mr. Hughes will rn on th" ft'imn or
of the decision is eajerly awaited 'who will murage h's campoicn are
throughout the state. questions that have not been con-
v'v i '
.3
-fi
if
$pt yr:.;
8$
1 1
y
?
In Maiden Speech Candidate
Flays Mexican And Foreign
Policy In Sizzling Words.
Soon Starts Campaigning
(By Review Leased Wire
i WASHINGTON'. June 10. Charles
1 Evans Hughes stepped down today
fi'om the supreme bench and again a
private citizen, accepted the Repub-
lican nomination for President. In a
' telegram ringing with denunciation of
' the administration's foreign policy
and declaring for a dominant, thor
ough going Americanism, he s.ave his
acceptance to Chairman. Harding of
the Republican national committee-
and brolie tne lon" "''pne which had
kePt tne Ieal"rs of his partv in tie
dark as to his attitude toward the
great issue of the day.
: "I have not desired the nomination,"
said the telegram. "I have asked to
; remain on the bench. But In this
', critical period of our national history
. I recognize that it is your rir;ht to
sunimVm and that it is my paramount
. duty to respond."
j Resignation Curt.
1 Within an hour after Chairman
! Harding had notified him of his
nomination Mr. Hughes had accepted
tDP ra"- M,s resignation, a scan two
1111.- It tit I WllIIlUIl H PMIJCI IIU-MI71
wor(J wag on jts wy tft t, wh)e
ow fronl tne Wwh nonle bpfore
the nominee had dispatcher the ms
saee of acceptance and called the
waiting group Jf newspanermrn into
his ftturiv tn tell them of hia decision
OGRATICilTS HUGHES
Eyes 0 Na-ion Turn Now
Upon St. Louis, Where Ad
vancing Hosts Gather To
Name Standard Bearer
WILSON AND MARSHALL
SLATED TO RETURN
Will Name Them Friday Or :
Saturday, After President.
Wilson's Fiatform Is Adopt ,
ed By Convention I
'Bv Review 'eESe1 Wlre.l
ST. LOUIS, June 10. Out of
the echo of the -Chicago conven
tions tonight come the sound of
advancing hosts of Democracy
that are to meet here next week
to name the standard bearers of
their party fcr the presidential
campaign. The advance guard of
delegates came in scattered
f.-oups from Michigan and llli
tois and their number will be
augmented by heavier reinforce
ments from all over the country
tomorrow.
All interest and discussion anion
i the antional conniiitteemen and dele
gates centered tonight on the outcome!
j at Chicago and what bearing they ,
j would have in the campaign. Xatftraa: J
i Chairman McCombs agreed that no
i nit tter what slate had been selected 1
! Lnh,kf r z jl' r j?1:
iplan of the Democrats to rename,
i President YHlson and Vice President ,
I Marshall. The renaming jf llson
iand Marshall after .le 1.002 dele
.! gates have B-.ioit-d - .-'ttomi which
' in the main lias .-ketched t
! President Wilson is' expected to be
j carried through Itliout a hitch late
i Friday night or early Saturday morn
ting. To Oppose Marshall.
I The names of 'one or possibly two
lor three other candidates besides that
; of Mr. Marshall might be presented
j m me cuiiveiiimu lur n-tr ii ciurin
l but are expected to be withdrawn be-
j fore the first roll call is drawn.
I The national Committee has before
jit a contest from Texas in which a
t ti,t litllA flraht te nrnniioiul Thnni;ia
!..- . H. .....,v ... aisiricis.
I Love, formerly of Missouri, is contest-. In 8omo quarters, there was a ten
, ing the election Mf Mr. Poindexter as doncv to atta(.h sinister importance to
j national committeemen. ; tnp ltnpXpe(.ted orders from the Mexi-
I A private telephone wire has been , f an mIjtary hea,i for the meeting,
(installed between, the White House j eomln9 a8 it did. on the heels of re
iand the headquarters of the national : ports of continued anti-Americau dem
committee .here and President Wilson ; onstration8 in several states and the
j will be constantly informed 'of every rprent cavira-Pershing conference,
.move until the convention closes. j ,n Juare7 tonif.,lt per8on9 friendly
umml" mav r-resiae.
The national
CiiiinniLieeiiieu iiero
I are on a nne .use oi pecian.-y
ed
i AMaililif, lilt- o uiraLiiiii iiiii K i rai
j dent Wilson as to who he would like
: .. . pioycs in Mexico,
'national committee. If the President;1 ' .....
' names a member of the committee it
........ , , An vein limn v u in ua una i-j
is rt'.irted that Homer Cummins of . . , " .
.! . ... .i .u....k among whom were a few refugees to-
Conneticut will be the man, though, , . . . . . .. .
Chairman McCombs said tonight thatjf- """J Parade of school clnldren
no intimation had been made by landed as a protest against the
President Wilson as to his choice. j "ce or the American troops in
Mexico was held there yesterday and
i another mass meeting is to be held
i sidered so far.
! For Preparedness.
On his telegram of acceptance Mr. '
j Hughes announced his stand "i'Jr the
j firm and unflinching maintenance of
! all the rights or American citizens on ;
land and sea:" for "an Americanism,
j that knows no ulterior purpose, for
a patriotism that is single and Jii:-
inl.te"- unit for nrennre.lne not .
onlv entirely adequate for our de-'
fense with resnect tn numbers anil
'eonipment in both crmv and raw, but "' rumors current in El Paso that
' with all thoroughness to the end that General Jacinto Trevino. Carranza
I in each branch .ir the service there ' commander at Chihuahua City, had in
imav be the utmost efficiency under fnrniHl the Itritish consul there, who
i the moot competent executive heads." ' handling the affairs of the United
Scores Mexican Policv. States government in the absence in
i What he thinks or the adminlstra-1 Washington of Consul Marion Letcher.
! tion's foreign policy was told in part that he would protect all foreigner
las folws: "I neither impugn motives iid their Interests, excepting only
jor underestimate difficulties but it Is i Americans. Another rumor current
most regrettably true that in our here, hut generally discredited by per
! foreign relations we have suffered sons closely in4touch with the situa-
incalculnhly from the weak and vacil ;tion was that a motor train in General
at"g course which has been taken j Pershing"s rear guard had been at-
with recard to Mexico a course lacked hv Carranzistas near San An
' lamentably Nt with regard to both ' tonio. Chihuahua.
cur rights and our duties.
Foreion Policy Weak.
At the verv outset, of the adniin-
istration the hich responsibilities of absence. General Francisco Gonzales
our dininiatic intercourse with for-1 will command the frontier district,
el-n nations were subordinated to a i while Colonel Gonzales will be In
conception of nsrtian r"q'iiremento 'charge or the Juarez garrison,
und we presened to the world a
humilatinp- snctacle or inant'tude. j things would move swiftly and that
rt(.td efrn-ts have not availed to re- j night would find the Republican con
co'or the influence and prestige thus vention adjourned. Its work ended.
troriinatelv sacrificed and brave Hut few of the candidate closest
wnrdo have been strjpppd or their frineds believed that the day s devel
forre hv indecision " ; opment would crowd his resignation
Events transpired with dramatic ; from the bench, his acceptance of ihe
suddenness at the Hurhes home to-1 nomiuation and his declaration of prin
dav o a climax to mnrntnnnn weeks i ciples into the space of little more
of wniling. It has been thought that than an hour.
ROOT
PRAISES HUGHES
i X.
ITTK'A. X. Y June 10.
Kliliu Root, commenting to
night on the nomination of Mr. .
Hughes, said:
"It is plain that Mr. Hughes
has been nominated because a
great mass of the rank and file
of the Republican party, the
constituents of t.he delegates,
considered him the best man,
and wanted him for their can
didate. He is able, experienced
courageous, high minded, and
Anieriian to the core."
CALL of mm
f ' Many Believe Juarez Gener
al's Trip To Mexico City
Portends Gravest Conse
quence To Americans
think obregon is
HATCHING UP PLOT
Tension Increases, So Do Anti-American
Demoristra
tiens In Mexico. Even Mex
ican Children Take Part
i By Review Leaseo Wlre.t
EL PASO, June 10. General Gavira.
: Orranza comnrinder of Nortnem
(.'hlhualitia left Juarez tonight aboard
a special train bound for OMexico City,
, ostcnsioiy Tor tne purrKise oi conier-
rjns wltn General Alvaro Obregon,
: minister of war. on border conditions.
anrt on the temper of the peoples on
j botj, aides of the line in the frontier
,
f Americans sDoke of the im-
pending ebnference with obvious de-
, preflsion lining !nen in K, Paso
manifested Increasing apprehension
for the safety of their American em
Children Protest.
: i . r- i.i,;i,.,.i,... rii.
1 there Sunday, they said. Other re-
ports told of a continued spreading o
' ami-American literature and the call
ing of mass meetings, in protest, in
several cities of the state. Thus far,
however, according to all available re
ports here, the authorities of the de
'facto government have been able to
control the demonstrators, the only
violence manifested in Chihuahua be-
1ne Chihuahua City.
Carranza authorities in Juarez de-
! General Gavira expected to reach
j Mexico City over the Mexican Na
tional railway in eicht days. In his
SOUTH HAS BAD
LOOK TO
U.S.
run
YNOZIMY
ntinoraira;
TEAM UNANIMOUSLY
ELECTED 0HEARLY BALLOT
Favorite Son Combination And Roosevelt Influence Swept By
The Boards And Justice Rides Into Hohored Place On
High Tide Of Enthusiasm. Lodge And Weeks, His
Strongest Rivals, Quit Field Amid Great Applause
NO TAINT OF BOSSISM ENTERS CONVENTION;
SELECTION WAS POPULAR CHOICE OF DELEGATES
Rocsrvelt Scorned By Party He Once Sought To Tear Asun
der. His Plea For Lodge Falls On Deaf Ears. Even The
Cheerinsr Was Srmll For Him. Hughes Gets Congratu
lations From All Over Country; Accepts Nomination
CHICAGO, June 10. Charles Evans Hughes, former
governor of New York, and until today Justice of the Supreme
Court of the United States, was today nominated for the pres
idency by the Republicans. Fairbanks of Indiana who was
elected vice-president with Thsodore Roosevelt in 1904. was
again chosen for second place on the Republican ticket.
Both nominations, made by overwhelming majorities on
the first ballot of the day the third ballot of the convention
were by acclamation made unanimous. Senator Lodge of
Massachusetts, presented by Roosevelt as a compromise can
didate, received seven votes. Col. Roosevelt himself received
eighre
een and one-half scattered
The nominating ballot showed this count:
Hughes, 940 1-2; Roosevelt. 18 1-2; Lodge. 7; Du Pont
5; Lafolette, 3; Weeks. 3: Absent I. Total 987.
Despite the fact that Frank H. Hitchcock, leader of the
Hughe
ies supporters, let it be known while the presidential bal
loting was in progress that the Hughes men wanted Burton
for second place. Ohio withdrew Burton's name, leaving the
field to Mr. Fairbanks and former Senator Burkett of Nebras
ka. The ballot for vice-president showed this count: : '
Fairbanks, 863: Burkett, I08-; Borah, 8; Burtcn. 1 ?
Johnson, 1 : absent, 3 : scattering and not votinz. 6. Total 987L
Mr. Huehes will be notified of his nomination officially at
a date to be fixed later by a committee headed by Senator War
ren G. Harding of Ohio, chaiiman of the convention.
Mr. Fairbanks will be notified by a committee headed by
Senator Wm. E. Borah of Idaho.
At 2:01 p.. m. the convention adjourned. There were
expressions of harmony from all the leaders among the dele
gates. Favorite Sons Flop. ,
The nomination of Mr. Hughes was la stamp-de to Colonel Roosevelt it
made possible so soon by a nover- wns dissin-Jted at once by every out
night breakup' of the allied favorite j ward indication that aboni the only
sons who early this morning released I message from Colonel Roosevelt thai
their delegates. When the conven- could have roused the delegalions to
tion begun business shortly berooe anv srent drree of enthus'asm would
noon the withdrawal or the favorite i hp'-e teen his acreptam-e of Irishes,
sons was announced one after another With that the roll ca'l of states be
am! voles began flopping into the ran.
Il'ighes column in solid Mocks so
rapidly that the nomination nlair.ly
was assured before the roll call had
cone five states. When it go to Colo- of all the favorite oons considered a
rado the drift was so apparent that f-vemost possibility, was receire
a proposal to make it unanimius or with a tumultuous applause when he
nominate him by acclamation was r ade a statement releasing his d!e
mnde. but Chairman Hardin.? ruled gates. Senator I.odze. known to all
that balloting should take its regular men in politics as a close personal
course. The votes piled up until New i triend of the ln!'8. got a reoep
Jersey carried at last the required tion aoproachin an ovation when he
number. ' nnde Ms sneer-h seconding Hughes.
Then Senator Weeks and Penator- All For Fairbanks.
jdge pledged loyalty to riie nominee.;
Hughes Accepts.
Although the convention when -it
nominated Mr. Hughes had no word
that he would accept and no state-, former Senator Pnrton and there wan
ment o fhis position, one came along ; some serprise when Governor WliUs
after the convention had adjourned. ' 0f Withdrew Purtons name nd cast
The former justice had kent to his'the woe block of Ohio votes for
room to await word on his behalf, to Fairbanks. That left Burkett as the
make no new announcement or his po-; ontv candidate nith anv plcU-t!
sltion on issues and to say nortitnv ' strength and he was uraed upon the
which miebt be construed as becom-' eonvention as meeting the call of the
ing a candidate while he wore the robe
or a justice in the worlds greatest tj.p roli rail proceeded whole
court. - hlocks of votes tiled in for Fairbanks
Conference Failed. aril his nomination vs such a fore-
Berore the ballot was taken toda cone conclusion among the delegates
Senator Sn.oot or Ctah announced the that they beaan leavins the hall ami
report o Mie latst meeting or the causing such confusion that the bal
Repnfclican conferees with the con-, toting w?s heard with difficulty,
ferees disclosing that Republicans Convention Adjourns.
had presented the name or Mr Hughes After Chairman Harding had ofM
for consideration as a candidate. II ciallv announced the nomination of
also read the reply or the Proaressive Mr. Fairbanks resolutions were passed
conferees which merely was an ac- tbankins the ofri'-ers t:f the conven
knowledgenient of the pronosnl. Then tion and the entertainment provided
he read Colonel Roosevelt's telegram for the delegates bv ihe citv of Chi
to the Progressive convention, which cago. so-e national committee select-ad
been brought to the coliseum by lions were made and ratified and the
John McGraih. the Colonel's secret- convention adiourned. The conven.
ry. suggesting Lodge. tion was notable in political historv
P.efore he had rinished the reading ror trany things. A ni"n who stead
word came and was onnounced in fustly had refused to seek the nomi
the Coliseum that the Progressive con- nation had been chosen: it left a new
vention itself bad not onlv tabled the mile stone in the paths of both the
Republican proposal of Mr Hushes Republican and Progressive parties
but had tabled Colonel Roosevelt's II was the first Rf-nuhliran convention
own proposal of Senator Lodge as since 1SSS which had been forced to
well.
No Cry For T. R.
There was a gallery demonstration
not so prolonged as vsterdny's at the tr?l ions but despite the fact in po-nan-e
of Colonel Roosevelt and his litical nroeeedines It solely and
proposition but the delegation sec
tion by its silence plainly showed its
Indifference and If any of the Reptib
licans entertained the least fear ot
'XIN30HJ
over twelve states.
Senator Weeks, who came to tf.
convention with the greatest number
of instructed delegates and h was
With the end of the balloting foe
the presidential nomination and
agreement by Chairman Harding the
bal'oting for vice president bean. Mr.
Hitchcock, expressed preference for
west ror repres.-nta'ion on the ticket.
take more than one ballot to jtgre
: u:vn a candidate and it had been
marked bv a 'nek of riotous denmn-
decidedly 'nnbossed.' it moved with
a precision and quietness which baa
not been equalled since the Mi Kinlcy
convention at Philadelphia.
