ALBUQUERQUE M0I1NING JOURNAL
CITY
CITY
EDITION
EDITION
Tirntn-sKVKXTn tkar.
Sixteen Pages
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Sunday, June 11, .1916
Sixteen Pages
Dully by Currit-r ur Mall, We
ft Month. Slndo Copies), Is
VOL. H"
f hub u moose mi
MS;
Third Ballot Virtually
Unanimous for Justice
tinny, but despite Hi fact lluit In po
Hiic.il vernacular i( was wholly ami
decidedly "unlniKHfil," it moved with
ii precision and iu iit ikks which has (
not been equal!' d since live .MeKlulcy
convention tu Philadelphia.
IMIOnK.VF.I.T
IS ( HOSKN
n ACCLAMATION
r
mm AiiiitnAn
PROGRESSIVE NOMINATION
CONDITIONED UPON HIS
RIVAL'S VITAL POLICIES
Auditorium, Chicago. June 10.
Colonel Uooseviit was nominated to
day bythe progressive national con
vention after four il:i.. of uproar and
tumult. Is which the dole gates hewr
wavered In I'lli girtiii i' or cast 'a puss
ing glance upon another man.
Three minutes h -fore tin- tonven
tlon adjourned utnil another time.
Chairman Raymond Rubins read i)
thoni a brief message from oyster
liny In which Mi'. Kooseoit declined
to accept the nomination lit this time.
Few of the thousands 11 the vast Au-
not so prolonged us yesterdays (it dltoiium, some if whom had seen the
the announcement of Colonel House- ; colonel named In an even wilder burnt
velt's proposition, but the delegation of enthusiasm four years ago, real
section by Its silence plainly showed i.ej when ftobius nipiied his gavel lit
Us Indifference and If Hiiy of the re-j 4:58 and declared the convention nd
puhllcan manurer entertained t lit journed glue (lie that In a few week
rive eonvelilion, which had been'
brought to the Coliseum by John Me j
Grain., the colonel' secretary, sug-1
treating Senator Lodge.
Before he had finished the reading'
Word came and was announced In the!
Coliseum that the progressive eon-;
vrntl'iti Itself hud not only tabled the1
republican proposal of Air. Hughes,
but had tubled Colonel Itoosevelt's
own proposal of .Senator Lodge us1
well. ;
There was a gallery demonstration
CHAS. W. FAIRBANKS IS
CHOSEN TO MAKE G. 0. P.
VICE PRESIDENTIAL RACE
John M. Parker, of New Orleans, Named Running Mate to
Seer of Oyster Bay, Who Tells Convention He Cannot
Take Leadership Against Republican Nominee Before
Knowing Latter's Attitude on Big Issues; if Hughes'
Principles Are Satisfactory, Roosevelt Will Not Make
Race; Justice Outlines His Policies in Telegram of Ac
ceptance; Stands for Firm Maintenance of American
Rights and Consistent Course of Procedure Jn Mexico;
Desires to See Diplomacy Restored to Best Standards.
least fear of a stampede to Colonel
Roosevelt It whs dlssipatvd at once by
every outward indication that about
the only message from Colonel ftoose
Velt that could have roused the dele
gations to any degree of enthusiasm
would huve been his acceptance of
Hughes.
With that the roll cull of states he-'
gan and there never was a moment's
doubt of the result from the time the
clerk began.
Senator Week, who cume to the
convention with the greatest number
of instructed delegates and who was
of all the favorite sons considered a
loremost possibility, was received
with tumultuous applause when he
made a statement releasing his dele j
Kates.
Senator Iiodge. known to all men!
in polities ns a close personal friend'
they might be a party without the
one leader to whom they had tome
to Chicago to give the pledge of loy
alty and fa Mb.
The si6'nlflunce of Colonel Roose
elt's message with Its announcement
that If the progressive national com
mittee found the uhseipint state
ments of Charles Kvans Hushes, the
republican standard hearer, to Its lik
ing his non-acceptance of the progres
sive nomination should stand as his
last word, wis lost in that tired
throng, worn out by its own enthus
iasm, by long delays over peace par
leys with the republicans and by the
discussion of a platform on which it
must bo into the field. If at sli.
against both the forces of democracy
and republicanism.
None of the feo'ing that some of
them later betrayed when they had
. .. (Ej Moittiug Journal Special Leased Wire!)
Chicago, June 10. The republican (eighteen and one-hull",
national convention today nominuted
Charles Kv&nti Hughes of New York,
und Charles W. Fairbanks of Indiana
an the candidates of their parly for
president and vice president.
Almost at the same moment Theb
ilore Roosevelt was nominated by the
national progressive convention and
later in the day John M. Parker of
Louisiana was named us his running
mate.
The republican nomination re
tiuiivd a ballot, the third of the con
vention, while the progressive nomi
nation was made by acclamation.
ilr. Roosevelt's provisional declina
tion to accept the progressive nomi
nation is believed by the politically
'lee to leave the door alar, if not
'We open, for eventual withdrawal of
the third ticket, in the event Mr.
Hughes' position on what the progres
sives feel to be the vital issues of the
campaign meets their approval. To
tills extent at least, the leaders In
botb parties feel that the efforts at
harmony, ,.Von ( 1)0 directly fruitful
of result, may yet bo realized.
thle
1-2;
3;
H.
ni(.iii:s IS XAMKIl
OX TIHIil) I1AM.OT
Chicago, June 10. Charles Kvans
, Hughes, former governor of New
York and until today justice of the
supreme court of the United State,
"U8 today nominated for the p resi
liency by the republican national con
convention. Charles Warren Fairbanks of Indi
a"a, elected vice president with
Theodore, Roosevelt in 1004, again
as chosen for second place on the
epulillcu, ticket.
Both nominations, made by over
whelming majorities on the first bal
lot of the day the third ballot of the
convention, were by acclamation
nisele unanimous.
Sfimtor Lodge of Massachusetts,
presented by Koosevelt as a compro
mise candidate-, received seven votes.
(olont-1 Kosevcll: himself received
THE WEATHER
TUE WEATHER FORECAST.
Denver, Colo., Juno 8. New Mex
': Saturday and Sunday fair; soine
whiU cooler Sunday.
UiCM, WEATHER REPORT.
For twenty-four hours, ending at
P. m. yesterday:
n,i """ temperature. 92
""num. 4 degrees; range,
' ; temperature at 6 p. m
"; southwest wind; clear.
CITY
degrees;
43 de
., So de-
BAVK CXKARING8.
145,231.39.
( learlngs for the Week.
3S6,7S3.28.
Day in Congress
SKXATK.
't at noon.
Ueiirned at 12:25 to noon Tues-
It
fift at
fat
1 1 a. m
flni,'.N!r'1 ., ills tablishins 1-isson vol-
i-Sii. '"""'"al bark in the Sierra .-
. miinnta
J'1'1"1' w'ashinston wlHte cession of
w..- w Jurisdiction nver Mount it.
. "'ionai park.
Hont'y.'" llt 211 P- m- to 13
Htlered over
twelve slates.
The noiiiiiuttiiiK ballot showed
count:
Hughes, !)40 1-2: Koosexelt, l.S
Lodge, 7; l)u I'ont, 5: IKullcttc
Weeks, 3: ubsent, 1. Total, il 7 .
Uesplte the fact, that Frank
Hitchcock, bailer of the Hughes sup
porters, let it be known while the
presidential balloting was in progress
that the Hushes men wunted Huitoii
for second place, Ohio withdrew liur
ton's name, leaving the field to Mr.
Fairbanks and former Senator l;ur
kett of Nebraska.
Kaii-bunks, Sli:;, rtiirketi, JOS; lio
rah, S; lliirton, 1; Johnson, 1. Absent,
scattering and not volinir. 6. Total,
ax 7.
Mr. Hughes will be notified of his
nomination officially at a a date to be
fixed later by a committee headed by
Senator Warren 0. Harding of Ohio,
chairman of the convention.
Mr. Fairbanks will be notified by a
committee headed by Senator William
K, Uorah of Idaho.
At 2:01 p. m. the convention ad
journed. There Were expressions of
harmony from all the leaders among
the delegates.
The nomination of Mr. Hughes was
mailt! possible so soon by an overnight
break-up of the allied favorite sons
combination, which early this morn
ing released its delegates.
When tho convention be:in busi
ness) shortly before noon, the with
drawal of the favorite sons was an
nounced from the platform one after
another and votes began flopping
into tho Hughes column In solid
blocks so rapidly that the nomination
was plainly assured before the roll
call had gone five states. When it got
to Colorado the drift was so appar
ent that a proposal to make it unani
mous or nominate, him by acclamation
was made, but Chairman Harding
ruled that the bulloting should take
Its regular course. The votes piled
up until New Jersey carried it. past the
record, 494.
In rapid succession as the voting
went on Da Pont was withdrawn by
Delaware, Illinois withdrew Sherman,
(thio withdrew Burton, Iowa with
drew Cummins. New York withdrew
Root, Massachusetts withdrew Weeks.
Then Senator Weeks and Senator
Lodge pledged loyalty to tho nominee.
The final analysis of the nominat
ing ballot showed that Hughes hro
drawn his vote from every stute in
the union and every territory; that
itoosevelt's had been scattered over
twelve states; that Ihi Font's five hud
come from South Carolina; Lodge's
seven from North Carolina, and the
final three for Senator Weeks had
come from Massachusetts and Mis
souri. Although the convention when it
nominated Mr. Hugheg had no word
that he would accept and no state
ment of his position, one came along
after the convention had adjourned.
The former Justice had kept to his
determination to utter no word In his
own behalf, to make no new an
nouncmeiit of his position on Issues,
and to ay nothing which might be
construed as becoming a candidate
while he wore the robe of a Justice
in the world's greatest court.
Before the ballot wns taken today
Senator Smoot of I'tah announced the
report of the latest meeting of the re
publican conferees with the conferees
of the progressive convention, dis
closing that the republicans had pre
sented the name of Mr. Hughe for
their consideration as a candidate on
wbili both conventions could unite.
He also read a reply of the progres
sive conferees which merely was an
acknowledgment of receipt of tho
proposal. Then h read Colonel
Koosevelt s tele&tam lo the progie-(
iiwu munwBPiiMwiiupjsiinni i iiwuam n miumm iu iiksiliiii
(iui(j(ifc4fcj. "fijv
i 3FSss;t- M
I . " "if " " - VV - 'l -U:
' J ' y ' . V x' r If-
: i fx . ' y V H" I
!'.' '
4 ? tH : & . " V i
:i i' ' f -ii 1
, 1- "i.w, - i :,?:,' , f - It;
f-F fc ' i i n
; I 3 ' ' ' f !k
If r 1 f ' r. ' ' i
,4 l : ! I- if:
'I V ; - . f a-. ? , )h
-1 " us i i "' 1 i-1
1 f k: i ' : - 4
Sill ! ihv.'- irt Ir-i
!nDDcrniii.pMiiDii I
llllir ImII 111 Ims II II I I I II
ill iii y nn inn
hcct hp nnrrn
lyiLLIIiyU LUUULU
UPON AS ii
SINISTER IMPORT
and to be moving on Sallna Cruis,
the road's Pacific terminal.
In northern Mexico, the bandit
(leader de la Itosa Is said to be ac
! tlve in tile I virion of Mazatlan. Since
jiim m.-t hkmi Ol linn H-iloiT pillt.eu.
I him near the border, officials are at
a loss to account tor bl-i reported
activities in the west const territory.
Secretary Lansing said the dis
turbances ho far had nol been called
to the attention of tJenerul Curranza.
Officials generally think the present
slate of affairs will be set forth In
the note being prepared In reply to
CnrruiiKu's recent communication do
manding the withdrawal of American
troops from Mexico.
vm..N7. hii;f
PISOMISKK PHOTIXTION
Conference of Mexican Chiefs
Regarded as Bad Omen in
American Outbreaks.
ALARMING RUMORS
Brownsville, Tex., June 10. The
Mexican constitutionalist commander
guarantees protection on the border
- ,i m i , I i ,i in mm viciuiiy, nun miy imnuun no
OOnneCtlOn Willi A lltl- tempting to invade the lTnited Btates
will first have to contend with Car
ranz.t troops, tho Carrataa con. ml hen
told Col. Jiimes Haiker, American
border commander today. He said he
was Instructed to convey this infor
mation to the Amerlcun commander
ARC PlRflll ATIWH11' J- K- Quintlnalla, Mexican
nnt wlnwyUM I IIVU i commander lit Matiunoros.
In a communication to the Mexican
consul, Qulntlnnlla denied that Luis
de la Itosa had a bond of bandits near
the border, declaring he Is in the In
terior of Taniaulipas, where he Is
closely watched.
One Report Has It Trevino
Promises to Protect All For
eigners Save United States
Citizens,
imr MuNNiHa jouhnal iricdi. Lt4 wirii
L'l Paso, Tex., June 111. flen. flab
rle (Juvira, Curranza commander of
northern Chihuahua, lett Juare. to-
SUFFRAGISTS PLAN
BIG DEMONSTRATION
.V MOMNINdl JOUNNAU BrlCIAk LKASID Wintl
St. Louis, Jane in. For their dem
onstration during the democratic na-
niirht aboard a special train bound for ;tlonal convention here, suffragists
Mexico Cltv, ostensibly for the pur- have adopted as their slogan: "A
pose of conferring with Hen, Alvuro woman in linn is worth ton petitions
ohregon, Mexican miiiU'ter of war, in the waste basket."
on border conditions and the temper I 'I'he first day of the convention,
of the peoples on both sides of the jAVednesdny, Juno 14, will be Suffru
inie in the frontier districts. i gists' day.
In some ijuarters here there was ii A "golden lane," twelve blocks in
tendency to attach sinister importance 'length will be formed at 1(1 u, in.
to the unexpected orders from the ! Lines of women wearing
Mexican military head for the
head for the meet
ing, coming as they did, on the heels
of reports of continued tintl-Ainerlcnn
demonstrations in several suites and
the recent Uavini-Pershliig confer
ence. A p irclicnsioii ( . row s.
In Juarez tonight persons friendly
lo the Americans spoke of tne impend
ing conference with obvious depres
sion, while mining men in Fl Paso
manifested Increasing apprehension
for the sufeiy of th"r American em
ployes In Mexico.
Arrivals Irom Mexico City, among
yi How rind
white sashes will he seated on camp
Stools along both edKes of the side
Walks, llehlnd them will he a line of
women standing. The women seated
will carry closed yellow suffrage par
asols across their laps, mid there
r.landlnv: will carry theirs open, to pro
tect themselves and their seated com
panons from the sun. The women
will change places every fifteen min
utes, When the noon whistles IsUi to
blow thi linen will break. rmim-di-utely
alter, members of the Habv Wi I-
Ifare association, the Veiling Nurses'
as ;
i the American troops
I lii-Id there yesterday,
whom were a. few refugees, todav said (association amr otner organizst ions
a parade of school children, intended j interested In baby welfare, will be hos-
protost iwinst the presence of (lenses in lunciieon.
in Mexico, was! I'lom ,, in . iiiiiiiik ine same aner
and another '""on (he women's council will give an
hoiks nieellni.- Is lo he held there Sun- entertainment.
I (I i v, they said. Other reports told of At :.')() p. m. the Town club will
la continued spreading of nntl-.Xmcr- give a dinner at which visiting surra-,
lean llleralnre and the calling of masslglHis will be speakers. At p. m, the
! meetings. In protest. In several cities I Huslneiw Women's K(ual Suffrage
lof the slate. Thus far. however, ac- I league win taKe charge or a great
cording to all available
the authorities of the
eminent have been alie
demonstrators, the only
repori-4 here,
de facto gov
lo control the
violence mini-
iijiissliiiisitMliiiMBH mtmiue'rvimiammam
CIIAKIJ'IK Hl'i.lll.S.
of the colonel's, got a reception up
P Touching an ovation when ho inadf
his speech seconding Hughes.
With the end of the balloting
the presidential nomination una the.
official announcement by Chairman
Harding, the ballotinif for vice presi
dent began. In view of Mr. Hitch
cock's expressed preference for for
mer Senator liurton there was some
surprise when Governor Willis, of
Ohio, withdrew Burton's name and cast
tne wholo block of Ohio votes for
Falrlwinks. That left Burkett as the
only candidatD with any pledged
strength and he was urged upon the
convention as meeting the call of the
west for representation on the ticket.
As tho roll call proceeded, whole
blocks of votes piled In for Fairbanks i
opportunity to digest the colonel's
statement had time to flare out when
tho gavel fell. They trooped out into
for I Chicago's glreels for home while the
band played faintly and the flags that
festcd In Chihuahua being in Chihua
hua city.
I'glj ltiimor Denied.
Cairahza aulhoritles in Juarez de
nied minors current in F.I 1'i.so that
Hen. .l.tcinlo Trevino, Oarranza com
mander at Chihuahua city, had In
formed the British consul there, who
is handling the affairs of the 1'nlted
I Stales government In the absence In
(Washington of Consul Marlon Letcher,
Mint he would protect nil foreigners
land their Interests', excepting only
i Americans. Another rumor current
here, but generally discredited by
(persons closely in touch with the it
j nation, was that u motor train In ilen
ieral Pershing's rear guard had been
attacked by OarranclstaK near Van An
tonio, Chihuahua.
General Gavii'a expected to reach
Mexico ('My over the Mexican Nation
al railway in eight days. In his ab
sence, (Jen. Francisco Gonzales will
command the frontier district, while
Col. Samuel Gonzales will be In
charge of the Juarez garrison.
Crisis at Hand.
The report brought by arrivals from
Chihuahua City of a mass meeting
scheduled there for tomorrow after
noon, has caused officials in El Pbjfo
to express the opinion that the crisis
in the Mexican situation Is fit hand.
Chihuahua City is all important. In
their view, as the headquarters of
i demount rat ion on one of (lie princi
pal St. Louis streets. Ituslness and
professional women und all those
whoso vocations prevent them from
having a place in the golden lane will
take part.
According to SI. Louis leaders, the
day as a whole will be a huge demon
stration of the solidarity of women for
women's interests.
hart flMimt..,! u,, nrniidlv thnniiii nil General 'Irevlno, commanding the
the stormy sessions were folded and army of the north. If Sunday passes
the banners put awav. without the population getting out of
Before they left the hall the dele-!liand, the present excitement may
gates remembered one of the cssen-(have, they say, a chance to calm
tlals of a campaign. In rsponsc to the down.
spur of the leaders they promised I The notice for tomorrow's meeting
more than $80,000 to carry on the isunimons every male Mexican in Chl-
fight. It was pledged in enthusiasm
and tho contributions tumbled In al
most as fust us they could bo record
ed. The only protest of the day came a
few minutes before the leaders reud
the announcement from Colonel
and his nomination was such a fore-!;."';' VP", wn'' V'"11"1", !""","'
gone conclusion among the delegates
themselves that they began leaving
the, hall and causing such confusion
that the balloting was heard wtih dif
ficulty. After Chairman Harding had offici
ally announced tho nomination of Mr.
Fairbanks, resolutions were passed j xtml
manning me omcers 01 me conven
tion and the entertainment provided
for delegates by the city of Chicago:
sumo national committee selections
were announced and ratified by the
convention; Chairman Hlllcs called a
meeting of the new national commit
tee for organisation, and tho conven
tion adjourned.
The convention was notable in po
litical history for many things. A
man who steadfastly, had refused to
seek the nomination had been chosen:
Pittsburgh proposed the adoption of a
rule which permits the national com
mittee, to fill the vacancies on the
ticket. There was a chorus of "noes"
from over the hall but it was lost In
the explanations of those who stood
upon the platform that this was but
a perfunctory thing done ut all na-
convenlions to provide for
"death or other casualties." It was
adopted then Immediately.
The communication from Oyster
Bay known to all leaders for at least
an hour before It was presented, wus
read to the convention In a moment of
tense dramatic silence. The gavel
fell with a last bang, almost as it was
finished.
huahua. and vicinity to unite In a
protect against 'he continued pres
eiicu of the punitive force. Considera
ble apprehension is felt by the twenty
Americans who have remained in
I ho clly for business reasons, accord
ing to the refugees.
WASHINGTON Oltltl I'D
OVER .MEXICAN XUOl BEE
WIIUIAXKS SUS
UK Wll.
ACCEPT
it left o, new milestone In the paths iminapolis, Ind., June J0.
of both the republican and pro res-1 Charles Warren Fairbanks, in a state
sive parlies. It was the tirst ripub- m(MU gv,.n ut n,.r toninht, accepted
IIchii convention since lsss winch had :th(1 nomination for vice president,
been forced to take more than one rt t . r(,l..lhll(,. .,i(1I1,,i ,.,,.
t to agree upon a candidate, and v,.nli,. ,,, ,.,,:,... .,...
niont follows:
ball
it had been marked Ia' a lack of riot-i
Ant ilfiiHirml r! ion mill nervous en-i
thuslasm which hitherto had been I
feature of such gatherings. '
It did not touch any of the exist-1
intf records for sustained detiioiibUii-'
) "I was not a candidate for the vice
presidential humiliation and requested
the chairman of the Indiana delcga-
Washington, June 10. Administra
tion officials have been unable as
yet to determine the extent of the
uuti-Ameiican agitation in northern
Mexico, but they are making no ef
fort to conceal their uneasiness. The!
demonstrations against retention of
American troops in Mexico have been I
widely separated geogra phiou 11 V. but i
hale oci'Lirred, some officials think,
with significantly close relations to
each othi r in time. They believe it
possible a definite campaign has been
! Inaugurated by moitio ageacy to pro
f voke an armed clash between Ameri
can and Mexican forces. It is not
known, however, that any definite
indication of such an organized move
ment has been received.
The Rtnte department had no con
firmation tonight or current rumors
that the' American consulate at Du
rango had been burned or that Gen
eral Pershing's forces hud been at
tacked near Niimlqtiipa.
Tho Camilla government is facing
renewed disorders in tho south along
the line of th Tehuanlepec railway,
today's advices said. Itebels are re
ported to liavu csptured Tehuantepec
SUBMARINES SINK
ITALIAN TRANSPORT
IBV MORNINQ JOUftNAI. CIA1. LlAftO WIMI
Probably as a preliminary to a re
newal of iheir assault on the defenses
of Verdun from the northeast, the
Germans are using their-heavy guns
freely In pounding the French trench
es In (hat sector.
The Italians huve suffered a prob
able heavy loss In men in the sinking
of the Italian transport Principle Vm
herto In an ultaek by two Austrian
submarines In the lower Adriatic. II
Is believed that fully half the lurge
number of troops on board perished.
HAMPSHIRE WAS
SUNK BY MINE
imt wrNih journal artciAL liaiko wirii
London, June 10 (4:40 p. in.) The
British cruiser Hampshire on which
Field Marshal Karl Kitchener mid
j members of his staff were lost, was
sunn us the riisuit or strlKing a mine,
it was officially announced today.
All hope, has been abandoned for all
save the twelve men who were washed
ashore on a raft, the statement says.
WARSPITE COMMANDER
DESCRIBES ESCAPE
IBV MOMNINd JOUftNAl SPCCIAL LIAIID Wlftl
London, June 10 (4:30 p. m.) In
proof of the statement of the British
admiralty that the dreadnaught War-
spite arrived safely in port after the
North sea bailie, tin commander of
tho warship himself received an Asso
ciated Press correspondent today find
described his vessel's miraculous es
cape from the concentrated German
fire.
HUGHES RESIGNS
Willi LACQNISM
WHICH MATCHES
JULIUS CAESAR'S
Brevity and Formality of Note
Said to Have Been Design
ed to Save President Em
barrassment, NOMINEE SCORES'
WILSON'S POLICY
In Telegram to' Convention,
Jurist Terms Administra
tion's Handling of Mexico
"Weak and Vacillating." .
RUSSIANS CAPTURE
5,500 MORE MEN
ikV MOIINiNa JOUHNAl PtCIAI. L.KAMD Wlftll
Petrograd. June 10 (via London.)
The war office announced today that, ;
continuing their succe ses In Volhynla
and Galicla, the Ulisslans have cap
tured ninety-s veil officers and 5,500
men in addition to the total previous
ly announced. Hleven more cannon
have been taken.
W ushington, Juno 10. Charles
FvanB Hughes stepped down today
from the supreme bench, und again a
private citizen, accepted the republi
can nomination for president. In a
telegram ringing with denunciation of
the administration's foreign policy,
and declining for dominant,
thoroughgoing Americanism, he gave
his decision to Chairman Harding of
the republican national convention,
and broke the lonfr silence which had
kept tho leaders of his party In the
dark as to his attitude toward the
great Issues of the day.
"I have not deslrsd the nomltia
tlon," said the telegram. "I have
wished to remain on the bench. But
In this critical period of our national
history I recognise that It Is your
rlaht to summon and that It Is my
Paramount duty to respond."
Resignation laconic.
Wlihlu mi hour after Chairman
Harding had notified him of his wniv
inutioit Mid Hushes -had1 acceptefl'rTIOi K
call, .'lis resignation, a scant, two
llne wll hunt a superfluous word, was
on its way to the While House from
tho Hughes home before the nominee
had dispatched tho message of ac
ceptance, and called tho waiting group
of newspaper men Into his study to
tell them of his decision. President
Wilson accepted the resignation in a, .
reply almost as brief. Apparently Mr.
Hughes' letter was framed so that tho
president might be saved the em
barrassment of expressing regret or
making more than a formal reply,
"I hereby resign the office of as
sociate Justice of the supreme court
of tho I'nited States," ho wrote. To
which the president replied: "1 nm
in receipt of your letter of resigna
tion and feel constrained to yield to
your desire. 1 therefore accept your
resignation as Justice of the supreme
court of the United Slates to take ef
fect at once."
Takes His Constitutional.
When copies of both telegrams to
Chicago and the letter of resignation
hnd been mude public, Mr. Hughe
h ft his home for his customary after
noon walk Soon after his roturn
Lawrence Green, his private secretary,
tedd him of Colonel Roosevelt's con
ditional declination of the progressive
nomination. Mr. Hughes sent word
to Inquirers that ho had nothing to
say concernlnsr 1'. Ills friends, how
ever, were outspoken in their satis
faction over Colonel Roosevelt's atti
tude. No plans have been made by tha
nominee for the summer. The family
had practically dismantled the Six
teenth resldenea here with tho inten
tion of returning to Maine for the hot
months, but those plans had been
abandoned. Whether Mr. Hughes will
go on the stump or who he will select
to manage his campaign are questions
that have not bceu given considera
tion so far.
Outlines His Policy.
In his telegram of acceptance Mr.
Hughes announced his stand "for the
firm and unflinching maintenance of
all the rights of American citizens on
land and sea"; for "an Americanism
that knows no ulterior purpose, for a
patriotism that Is single and com
plete"; and for "preparedness, not
only entirely adequate for our defense
with respect to numbers and equip
ment In both army and navy, but with
all thoroughness to the end that in
each branch of the service there may
bo the utmost efficiency under the
most competent administrative
heads."
What he thinks of the administra
tion's foreign policy was told ltl part
as follows:
Score Mexican Policy.
I "I neither impugn motives or un
derestimate difficulties; but It Is most
regrettably true that In our foreign
relations we huve suffered incalcul
ably from the weak and vacillating
course which has been taken with re
gard to Mexico a course lamentahly
long und with regard to both our
rights and our dutlcR.
"At the outset of the administration
the high responsibility of our diplo
matic intercourse with foreign nations
were subordinated to a conception of
(artisan requirements and we pre
sented to the world a humiliating
spectacle of Ineptitude. Belated ef
forts have not availed to recover tho
Influence and prestige thus unfor
Innately sacrificed and brave words
have been stripped of their force by
Indecision."
Dramatic Touches.
KventH occurred with drumatie nud
Gel aid Xdmits One Interview. ! demies ut the Hughes home today
Washington. June la. -Ambassador M a climax to monotonous weeks of
Gerard at Berlin cabled the state de-j waiting. It had been thought that
partment today admitting the aiithen- things would move swiftly and thut
tieily of an Interview with him on .night would find the republican con
peace published by a Munich newspa- (vention adjourned, its work ended,
per, two weeks ago, but denouncing j hut few of the candidate's closest
as spurious a somewhat similar state- i friends believed that the day'i devel-,
ment credited to Mm by the Berlin J opment would crowd his resignation
Evening National Kritung, June 3, from the bench, hl acceptance of the
i
