V- 'x'tS; 'nZ'V
PK""
v i&g$py'? ' vv .; y,,
WEATHER FORECAST:
Probably Showr
s(Full Report on Psga Two.)
IftelBtafom Wimt0
Sunday Evening
Edition
NUMBEB 8029.
WASHINGTON, SUNDAY EVENING, JUNE 11, 1916.
PBICE ONE CENT.
COMMON BATTLE CRY, "BEAT WILSON,"
DRAWS G.O.P. AND MOOSE TOGETHER
ST. LOUIS QUIET BREAK
DEMOCRATIC WITH
CLANS GATHER BORDER
.Wilton Unopposed and Soant
f Interest Taken in Nomina
tlon of Vice President.
MAJOR AND SULLIVAN OUT
N E A R ttSS Drive Crushes A ustrians
Advance 22 Miles in Two Days
MEXICO
HEARS
Gavlra Summoned to Mexico
City for What Is Believed to
Be War Council.
Brusiloff Breaks Teuton Front
at Three Places, Capturing
85,000 Prisoners.
THREATENS GERMAN FLANKS
ARTILLERY READY IN EL PASO
Delegas and Leaders Jubilarit
Over 'Split at Chloago Pre
dlot Victory.
By THEODORE TILLER.
' ST. LOUIS, Mo., June II. The
Democratic clans are gathering
here today for the Wilson renomi
nition festival. There is not an
other Presidential boom in sight.
After the call of the Moose and
the G. O. P. elephant in Chicago
this .'town seemsabout as quiet as
Rock .Creek Park at midnight,
.e'have Vith us two -Vice-Presidential
booms,' and they are both
tn 'need of the pulm'o'tor.
' The Democrats, who are piling
into town today say thfe nomina
tion by the Republicans of Hughes
and Fairbanks clinches the renomf-
nation of Marshall as Vice Presi
dent, alth6ug(i Mr. Marshall has
had the call all along.
There are two Senators to be
elected in Indiana this fall and the
St. Louis convention wouldn't think
of slapping the Hoosier Democ
racy in the face by turning down
Thomas Riley Marshall. Besides,
the President is understood to want
Marshall. ,
TWO BOOMS NURSED.
One needn't be at all surprised If that
should have some weight in thla con
vention. Neverthete8. alnca the Vice Presi
dency la about the only thing to get ex
cited about this year, St. Louis har
bors today the booms of Roger Sullivan,
of Illlnola. and Gov. E. W. Major, of
Missouri. The 8ulllvan boom for sec
ond place on the ticket was brought
Into town early today by a car full of
Illinois booatera. They showed aome en
thualasm. about the aama amount as
one would expect from a fellow with a
pair of queens In an eight-hand poker
game.
Governor Major and his booatera were
on the scene earlier. They reported
progress.
Chairman McComba la one of the
chieftains already about Democratic
headquarters. Moat of the "big fel
lows" are not expected until tonight or
tomorrow.
Senator Ollle James and the Washing
ton contingent ahould get In tomorrow.
Plcturea of the big, bald-headed Ken
tucklan are carried In the Bt. Louis
?apers today with the suggestion that
here will be "aome oratory" at the
convention when Jamea keynotes. The
other keynoter Is Oovernon Glenn, of
New Tork.
JubUant Over Split.
Mr, McCombs sees nothing but har
mony ahead, of the party and appears
Jubilant over the Chicago split, on
the whole the arriving; Democrats a,ro
full of confidence and predictions of
victory. Inability of the Moosera and
the Republicans to ?et together on,
one tlchet. the anger of the Mooso,
over the ievelopmcatp of yeatorday
and ihe belief that Kughea cannot
win, even If Roosevelt supports him,
causes the Democrats here today to
go About the Hotels congratulating
one another.
"Thero lan't a cloud In sight" said
Mr. McComba. "The convention la
going to be harmony til through and
victory Is ahead. There are no con
vention troublos with the possible ex
ception of contests from the District
of Columbia and Hawaii and thiy
will be speedily disposed of tomorrow
or next day"
Bryan in Press Gallery.
The Democratic reasoning Is that the
nomination of Marshall will dispose of
Fairbanks In Indiana, and that Presi
dent Wilson will carry the ticket
through In other pivotal Stater.
William Jennings Bryan, having fin
ished hla job reporting the Chicago con
vention, will get here tonight and call
for a preaa badge admtttlnr him to the
Democratic convention. That la the only
(Continued on Second Page.)
Retreating Force, Demoralized
by Loss of 200,000 Men,
Flees Westward.
E PASO, June 11. Anti-Amer
ican demonstrations are threaten
ed this afternoon in practically all
the larger cities of the states of
Chihuahua, Coahuila and Duran-
go, according to information re
ceived here by State Department
officials and army officers.
Grave fears are entertained for
the American residents in the
three states.
State Department officials here
have received information that
there are but twelve Americans in
Chihuahua City.. These are anxi
ous to leave the country, but fear
they will be massacred.
Gen. Gabriel Gavira, command
er of. the, de facto troops in north
ern MeIc6, left Juarez last night
on a special train. It was an
nounced he had been called to the
Mexican capital to confer with Car
ranza leaders "regarding anti
American outbreaks in northern
Mexico."
TALK OF WAR COUNCIL.
Sensational, but well founded, reports
followed the departure of the Mexican
general from Juarez. One report,
credited by officials In El Paao, Is that
a council of war has been called by
the Mexican army officers preliminary
to ajt attack on General Pershing's
column.
It has been known for the past
twenty-four hours that the breaking
point between the Carranza forces and
the United Statea troopa In Mexico Jia
been reached.
Open hostilities are expected momen.
tartly, and th Mexican forces are giv
ing more Indlcaton of the impending
(Continued on Ninth Page.)
DISTRICT
G. 0. P.
LEFT OFF
E
MUTE
Hughes Probably Will Be Con
suited Before Naming Suc
cessor to Chapin Brown.
V IKW9-tBY7fBaBBBBBBBBBBBm. I ii-i&
, aBBWX?,EiaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBm '! '"f'fW.
J9P?lBfiBIBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBm 7 4 ' "
JP'I'tSwJrftlMBP'aaaBBBBBBBBBBBBK A A
t ' -' . lnZBaBBBBBBBBBBBBm t i
I MV " 5 "!. viBaBBBBIBBBBBBBBM i ( i
1 I ' 1 ' I ' 4 f S-JBaBBBBIBBBBBBl .. ti -' i
' I 'r5T-!&'"-f 2i'''i'JaaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBl V KXF
I I Wj"'ipv( ?W XBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBaKab. teK3
X . I ffc"K(r-W-'- "Mf'SBaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBIBm - sttt
4 i SJvkwvVfew ww " m'9 A&pS9jBSBSBSBSBSBSBSBPjPjPj Vvl
SsaaaaA MM WIH
ill sjajTVBjassr.r 4 ainBWlKMstjBJl BjajfajajajajajajajajajajajajajSL.
I i xBm tBIBBBBBBVPr ''if I'jnBaBKBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB&WaBliaKLTBaB
limmmmmir iMiMWg&
sirapuMT '-siTL, -saar xsi.v, j m vt-v,''S- O'.iBKi nit ii
mas ?J?iYi m.fimv . - - ssmi icsmijar
PC5iSii m & !a i wpi J&mwjrm
pvK&a3;w 'ftf i ,4u. ?f wm
"--; Altai'. r . aaa i. IE t m. . i'A . '. r . yar ajaj -Jra
aJfJjBBlBBHMaBaMajifala?a?aWsiaSBsaaiaaaBlijillMWaBBBMBHBMMa
BREACH CAUSED BY
ROOSEVELT DEFEAT
ALREADY IS HEALING
Colonel's Refusal To Accept Third Party
Nomination Taken As Act of Patriotism
and Republican and Progressive Rally
To Hughes' Standard.
f
By WILLIAM PHILIP SIMMS.
PETROOIIAD. June lO.-Sweeplng
westward with Irreslstlbln force, 'Gen
eral Bruslloff'a great fighting machine
has broken the Austrian front at three
places ana threatens the capture or
annihilation of several Austrian divis
ions. Russian victories along the whole
front are announced.
. Thft Austran line has been broken at
Olyka, on the northern wing of Brusll-
offe armies. The Slavs advanced
twenty-two miles In two days In this
region, one of the most remarkable
feats of anv attacMnc army since
trench warfare became n. factor In the
world combat
Teuton losses since the drive began
GENERAL BRUSILOFF, leader of the great Russian drive.
are placed at 200.000. With the onward
rush of the Gear's forcea, Lemberg la
now threatened.
The Austrian front has again broken
In front of Btanlslau. where Ruaalana
drove forward fourteen miles. Near
Csernowlta another Slav force ruptured
the enemy line, capturing poaltlona
along the railway.
Slavs Take Railway Center.
The Auatrian railway town of 'llucxacz,
twenty-two mllea northeaat of Stanlalau
and the village of Sclanka, were cap
tured by the Russians yesterday, It Is
officially announced, the Slavs taking
about 6.600 srlaohera
Citizen Hughes , Waits
For Formal Word of
Nomination by G. O. P.
CHICAGO, June U. The Dlatrlot of
Columbia, which had no representa
tion In the Republican convention, be
cause all the contesting delegates
were thrown out, now has no national
committeeman. The term of Chapin
Brown expired with the lapse of the
old national committee.
Keen Interest la felt among District
politicians who have been here the
past week aa to who the new national
committeeman will be.
The national committee at Its meeting
lost night left the selection to the exe
cutive committee.
The executive committee, it was aald
todav, would not be In a hurry to pick
a man.
Jutslce Hurhea will brobably be con;
suited before a selection la announced.
Several names are mentioned, among
them that of Frank J. Hogan. Mr.
Hogan, though a former Roosevelt man,
will work for the election of Hushes.
Girl Bather Finds Herself
In School of Porpoises
REDONDO BEACH, Cal June It
When Miss Mary Hlgglns, a young Ten
nessee visitor, swam out to the end of
the raft, located several hundred feet
from the shore here, she was sur
prised tr Mm! shu had Innded In tho
center of a school of porpoises.
Misa Hlgglns, who had never before
seen a porpoise, hovan to shout for
help, and. believing she had been seised
rescue and brought her to shore.
with a cramp, & lifeguard went to her
Charles Evans Hughea, plain citizen
again. Is awaiting official notification
of his nomination as ReDUbllcan candt-
On the northern end of th MJU-mile datA for Piftdrient hnfnrn nlnnnlnn- his
battlefront the Russians crossed the campaign.
Klver Htyr both above and below thei The committee headed by Senator
fortress of Utik. Illardlnglng, which was named to
In Oallcla, heavy fighting is going on I notify the Justice, Is expected to
norH,.eft! of Tarnopol, in the reglona , come to Washington thla week. Mean
while. Mr. Hucrhea la alearlnar un all
private business In preparation for
the campaign.
The two most Important problems
now facing Mr. Hughes nre tho naming
of a campaign manager nnd decision us
to the character of camrtalRn he will
conduct.
There la a feeling In certain quarters
that Frank H. Hitchcock will be named
chairman of the Republican national
committee to manage the Hujrhes cam
paign. Others bellovo Hllles will be
retained. There also Is wldo diversity
ot opinion among Republican political
of Oiladka and Brorr. for the posses
sion or strongly fortified heights. On
the Htrypa, itusslan troops have oc
cupied positions on the eastern bank.
Ihe Austrian retreat In many places
Is becoming demorallced, at the blavs
(Continued on Ninth Page.)
Hughes Birthplace
Had Parade and Red Fire
OLENN FALLS. N. Y June ll.-Thta
town, the birthplace of Justice Hughes,
turned Itself Inside out when word of
Hughes nomination was received.
Flaga were displayed everywhere, and
all the factory whistles In town tooted.
Last night tho town gave Itself over to
an old-fashioned demonstration with
bands and red II ro as side light to a
non-partisan parado.
"Justice and Just Ice,"
Democratic War Cry
ST. LOUIS, June 11. 'Hughes and
Fairbanks Justice and Just Ice," Is
what the Democrats aasembled here for
the national convention are calling the
Republican ticket,
Tho slogan, which waa thought out by
Albert E. Hoyt, assistant socretary of
the national committee, immediately be
came the catch word around town.
leaders as to the character of campaign
Mr. Hughes should put up.
Want Him to Take Stump.
One school of politicians Insists that
he should take the stump and make a
vigorous campaign to offsot tho speak
Ink campaign President Wilson la ex
pected to make. They arguo that Hughes
would outshine Wilson on the stump,
pointing to his Portsmouth. Ohio,
speech for Taft, a classic of tho 1912
Campaign, and his speeches whan a
candlduto for governor of Now York,
as evidence of his ability as a campaigner.
Other political leaders, taking stock
of the psychological features of the
Hughes candidacy. Insist that he should
continue the golden silence that on
him a nomlnntlon.
Hughes was the snhynx during the
pre-conventlon fight when all the other
candidates wore sending forth verbal
and written broadsides dally. The
strongest Hughes supporters admit that
the people probably know less about
Hughes, in a pensonal sense, than
they know about any other leader In
political j ite.
If tho demand from the. people for
Hughes was so strong as to give him
the nomination for an office for which
he waa not a candidate, and against the
nctlvo opposition of a dozen candidates,
theer Is no need for Hughes to court
runner popularity, tncy say.
Effectiveness of Statement..
Those holding this view believe Mr.
Hughes should Issuo a few statements
during the campaign, continuing to hold
himself aloof from the people. They be
lieve this plan should be followed at
least for the present until the Demo
cratic campaign plans arc more fully
outlined.
Tho sizzling statement issued by Mr.
Hughos yeatorday In accepting the nom
of th
Mr. Hughs "took the hide off" Presl-
Inatlqn for President is pointed to as an
evidence or the etiectlveness
prepared statement.
of the
dent Wilson's European and Mexican
policies more effectively In his letter of
acceptance, Republican leadera believe,
than he could navo done In a score of
campaign speeches.
His statement that he wa for n
"dominant, thnroiigh-golng American
Ism" was accepted as n bid lor sup
port from the Itooevelt following, and
from the preparedness advocates who
liavo placed International Issues to the
front In the coming campilcn.
Tho subcommittee named by the Re
publican national committee yesterday
to confer with Mr, Huhcs Is expected
to coinu to Washington sonn. This sub.
commltteo will commit with Mr. HiikIich
over the appointment of on executlvo
committee, which In turn will select a
chairman and other ofitcors for tho
campaign.
Within an hour after he received the
(Continued on Second Pace.)
CHICAGO, June fi. A common battle cry and a
common cause already are operating to bring Republicans
and Progressives into close alliance and to heal the breach .
caused by the failure of the Bull Moose plan of putting
Teddy across.
The common battle cry is "Wilson must be defeated."
Both Republicans and Progressives freely admit today
that this is the important thing and now that the bitterness
of factional strife is becoming less apparent there is every
indication -lhat practically all the Republicans and a very
large percentage of the Bull Moosers will rally to the com
mon cause and follow the flag of Charles E. Hughes.
Overnight it has become, plain thatRoosevejt's refusal
to accept the third party nomination is being accepted as an
act of patriotism. There is little doubt here but that Roose
velt, heading a third party, would have made a remarkably
fine run, but would have so split the anti-Wilson vote as to
insure Democratic victory.
Roosevelt s supporters wanted him to run the more
radical would not consider any other proposition. Their
entire polincal interest was bound up in the Colonel, who, in
their eyes, represented everything they stood for. The
Colonel could have had the nomination on the first day of
the convention just as well as on the last day.
NOT WORKING SOLELY FOR NOMINATION.
Developments have shown, however, that the Colonel
was not working solely and alone for a nomination for Presi
dent. Had both parties nominated him he would have ac
cepted wilh alacrity and entered the campaign with zest,
shouting the common battle cry.
A nomination which merely meant a split in the ranks
of the opposition had no attraction for him and from the
very first day of the convention those in his confidence
realized that he had meant it when he said that he was first
of all an American citizen who desired his country to be
"put right" through the elimination from the White House
of a man he considered to have failed on his job.
This is. the patriotic view which is now being ascribed
to Roosevelt by leading Republicans as well as by the Bull
Moosers who are in his confidence. They early realized that
Roosevelt would not accept a nomination against a Repub
lican of the standing of Hughes and they were not surprised
by the receipt of his telegram of refusal.
They confidently predict that he will lend his material
aid to the accomplishment of the common purpose of "beat
ing Wilson."
EXPECT TO BE SWEPT INTO OFFICE.
But will Hughes win against Wilson?
It expressions of Republican leadera
today are to be relied on aa Innermost
sentiments, their ticket will be swept
into office In November. Many of them
are predicting a landslide to Hughes,
and forecasting Republican control of
the Government the next four yean,, In
cluding control of House, and even of
Senate.
It Is the belief of most leaders In the
Republican camp that Colonel Roose
velt will do much more than give the
ticket a perfunctory support. They be
lieve that consistent with his declar
ations for harmony, to the end that the
present Administration may be deposed
and a great national cause De served,
he will take off his coat and get out and
make & real fight for the Republican
cket.
He will not only be Invited to tour
achieve harmony between the Repub
licans and tho Progressive party, will
have a talk with Roouevelt soon
The Republican leadera for the most
part fianKly recognlzo that many vote
aie going to hang on the coun-e takn
by Colonel Hooievolu A few belliger
ents declaro Hiighrs could win regard
leaa f Roosnolt, even regardless of
whether he should hoar n third ticket.
he will take off his coat and get out sjid
ticket
the country for Hughes next fall but his
na counsel
as anticipated, he finally declines the
tj
advice and counse
the Republican campal
third party nomination, following un his
...T .. .." " . "
conamoniu aecunaiion ot yesteraay.
will be sought b:
inalgn managers 1
rilgrlmages to Oyster Bay In the near
future will be made -by some of the
Republican leaders close to the Colonel.
Senator Borah, who played a Mrge
part In bringing about the nomination
of Hughss and who worked hard to
but the great majority don't fed that
way about It.
The Colonel Is Quoted an saying he
is "out of politics," but It U a per
fectly safe prediction that Ovutm- Bay
Isn't yet marked oft tho I oTltlcat map.
If the Republican chiefs realize that
the old of Roosevelt In the campaign
will be valuable and expect to win with
his support and the backing of a re
united party, they do not, on the other
hand, as a rule underestimate the fact
that Wilson Is going to be n strong
candidate; that he la stronger than hla
party la generally conceded.
Furthermore, It la fully underatood
that In the White House and In Con
gress the Democratic forcea will leave
no stones unturned In the way of politi
cal maneuvering, and that the Presi
dent and the men about him havo
plenty of political machinery at their
command.
No doubt Is entertained In Repub
lican quarters that the Democratic cam-
(Continued on Second Page.)
i
v
v
V"l
A
t
