UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
U
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, SUNDAY, JUNE 11, 1916
SIX PAGES
NUMBER 243
ri
'I; t
I .
Mil, CORPS HONORED
run I fit InlnU 1 1 IVI t
Military Schcol Is Designated
as One of Ten Best by
War Department.
WILL GET NEW GUNS
President Hill to Reccmmend
A. W. Roffe, Honor Grad
uate, for Commission.
IrciI'iit A. Kos Hill received jes
terdav a telegram jesterdaj from the
adjutant-general of the War Ilepart
rai'iit, Washington. 1) C, announcing
that the Militarj School of tln Uni
versitj of .Missouri again hail been
designated as one of the ten "dis
tinguish! d institutions."
This entitle-, the Universitj to name
a second lieutenant in the United
States arm The honor graduates
that is recommended must pass only
the phjsical eanimatiou to get the
commission, and he is put on an equal
States armj The honor graduate
President I Iill will recommend A.
Worrell lloffe, who received an LL. B.
degree last week from the Universitj-.
Mr Roffe was hrst lieutenant of Com
liaii) a in 1913-H, Captain of Com
pany F in l!)H-l."i and major of the
first battalion this last jear. While
Colonel Gibson was acting cominan-
dant, Koffe acted as colonel of the regi
ment. He has not jet decided whether
!., will accept the commission
For winnmg a distinguished place
three consecutive tunes, the Univer
sity cadets will turn in their old
Krag-Jorgenson rifles for the new
Model Springfield army rifles.
I-ast J ear the following ten land
grant colleges won the distinguished
places University of California, Cor
nell, Umiversitv of Illinois, Kansas
State Agricultural College. University
of Minnesota, University of Missouri,
Texas Agricultural and Mechanical
College, University of Vermont, Uni
versity of Wisconsin and the Virginia
.Milita'-v institute.
hkmh KMuirrs ffneru. held
Fallter of Mrs. Cnj lliinielt, ('.or.
Range Line, Buried Here esterdaj.
The funeral of Henry Kneclit. "!
ears old, was held at :! o'clock jes
terday afternoon at the home of his
daughter, Mrs Guv Burnett, C0.1 Range
line.
The funeral services were conduct
ed by the Rev. A. B. Coffman of the
Wilkes Boulevard Methodist Church,
llurial was in the Columbia Cemetery.
The pallbearers were J. F. Leebrick,
William Head, Kdwin 1-tncaster, J. T.
Wingo, F. Ixiuis Douglas and William
Roberts.
Mr. Knecht was born in Heiden
berg, Germany, in lS.'.S. He came to
America thirty-five ears ago and had
lived in Indiana until recently.
Mr. Kneclit is survived bj his wife,
Mrs. Iiouise Knecht of St. Louis, four
daughters, Mrs. Guy Iiurnctt of Co
lumbia, .Mrs. Ida Thorn, Mrs. Ollie
Roberts and Mrs. Andrew- Dennis, and
one son, Richard Iiurnctt, all of St.
Louis.
JII.SS U:RLEA .MTUHBIN IS "ELL
M. T. .Student Nils .Mtelitl) Injured in
('. A. A. Railroad Vceident.
Miss Verlea McCubbin. the Univer
sity student who was injured In a
rcck on the Chicago &. Alton Rail
road Wednesday, was dismissed from
Parker Memorial Hospital jesterday.
W. H Ixigan of Vandalia, who is in
the hospital with injuries sustained
at the same time, is improving.
-Miss McCubbin and Mr. Ijogan were
among the 23 passengers who were in
jured when a broken rail caused the
train to jump the track cast of Fran
cis, Mo., Wednesday morning. No one
as seriously injured.
Hariutt-Riiriis Wedding Tnilaj.
-Miss Mary Harnett and Sjlvester
Burns were married at the home of
the bride's parents. Mr. and Mrs. Wil
liam Harnett, on Alton avenue, at t
oVlock this afternoon. Mr. Burns is
a barber at the Athens Barber Shop.
The Rev A. II. Coffman will be the of
ficiating pastor.
Orritk Hell Represented Herp.
Orrick, a town in Ray County with
about 300 inhabitants, is probably bet
ter represented in tiie Summer Session
than any other town of its size on the
state. Fourteen students from this
town are enrolled.
THE HEATHER
(Itrimrl UsiifiI Sniurila Morninir.)
I'or ('iluinlili .uni vkinitj: fiisettleil
ne.iuicr uim tliiiiiilerslioners Sumliy: not
in i ii.uir in leiniHT.iiure.
.V"i;S:;iSSL"iSs"1,,s-rt,""",: 'ii'"' '
Weather Condition...
Tin- like ilMiirluiice Ins .r.i. IIimIIv ilis
.iH..iri'il .is .i siurm, Imt still lingers" .ls a
s Inlli.u ileprcssluii Tli.- i:,,kj .Muiiut iln
.li-t url. in,-,., in, ti t.r , ,iit i, !s In.
in.is,.,! in (hit):. :m.l is snmculiit far
tlnr istu.iril. Imlnj .il t n-ji lu-,1 t In
pi tins .li-lrii t As .i result. slu.Hirs v.m-
Ink fniiii ll-M to l l.T.it,. hive f.illrn In
tlie HppiT plilns, Imt in tin- Iiiwit plains
tlms rir tlie.v Inve filk-n only in limit,-. 1
.iri-is in (ikl iliniiii .mil K.insis
During tin- list tw.'iitj four hours rains
wire more or l.-ss general wit the north-.isti-rn
s,s lion of the imintrj.
TrniiMTitiiri's now more ne rl .tpproxl
init,. the mmv.ii norm il
1'iis. tth-il .mil -In.uirj ueitlier will pre
vail in Ml ...uri ilnrlii the next two or
thus ,1 ijs.
BASER ILL RESULTS
National League.
Xew York 1, Chicago o.
St. louis ", Brookljn 2(11 innings).
(Mnt inuati-Ilostou (rain).
rittshiirgh-IMiiladelphia (rain).
American League.
New York-Detroit (rain).
Chicago 2. Washington 1.
llostou 4, St. Louis 2 (10 innings).
Cleveland 10, Philadelphia 1.
A nierieaii A ssociat ion.
Minneapolis 9, Indianapolis 1.
Milwaukee , Columbus 1.
Ijiuisville S, St. Paul 7,
Kansas Cit.v-Toledo (rain).
BROWNS GQJO PARIS
Bryant and Hill Form the
Columbia Batter' New
Material Added.
Hattery for todaj : Brjant and
Hill!
The Columbia Browins left at S
o'clock this morning for I'aris.
George Taj lor, manager of the Co
lumbia Drowns, announced yesterday
that Brjant, the Tiger pitcher, would
remain with the local club through
out the season. New material for the
contest today consists of Mason, for
mer Western league man, and l'rice,
former manager of the Kind, Okla..
team. 1'iice is mow attending the
Slimmer Session. He will divide the
receiving end with Hill.
Following is the line up for today:
Taj lor if. Slushcr, cf; Brjant, p; Dip
loid, rf; Davis, lib; Vogt. Ss; Hill, e,
.Mason, lb; Foster. 2b; MtClish, util
ity. The battery for I'aris today will be
Threlkeld and Dewey. Some changes
have been made in the Fans line-up.
Cadigan of Moberly will umpire to
day's game.
The llrovvns will plaj Moberly here
next Sunday.
MISS KATIIRY CENTRV MARRIED
Former M. V. .Student Metis (
A.
Clark tit Uncles' home.
Miss Kathrjn Sneed Gentrj-, a
former student in the Universit.v, the
adopted daughter of Mr. and Mrs. M.
K. Gentry of Sedalia, and Charles
Armstrong Clark, son of Mr. and Mrs.
C. T. Clark of Xeosho, Mo , w ere mar
ried last Tuesday at the home of the
bride's uncles, W. S. Sneed and G. V.
Sneed, three miles east of Sedalia.
Miss Gentry was a member of the
Kappa Alpha Theta sororitj while in
the Universitj-. For the last three
j ears she has been in charge of the
Swinney Branch of the Kansas City
Public Library. Mr. Clark is a civil
engineer. They will make their home
in Danville, 111.
SEATTLE MARCHES FOR DEFENSE
Preparedness Parade of i.'.OIIO Civil
ians Lasts Three Hours.
Ily Uulted Press
SEATTLE, Wash . June 10. Seattle
today marched for preparedness. A
three-hour procession of 25,000 civil
ians tramped down Pike street in mili
tary formation.
The parade was conducted along the
same lines as that in Xew- York May
13.
There were no gay banners, floats,
gaudy decorations or uniforms. Ev
ery marcher carried a flag. There
were men from every walk of life, and
several columns of women and chil
dren. Members of the G. A. R. and
the ladies of the G. A. R. rode in au
tomobiles. Student Volunteer Rand to Meet.
The student volunteer band will hold
its first regular meeting of the sum
mer session at 7 o'clock Thursday
night. June IT., ?t I.owry Hall. Blanche
Gale is leader.
RECORD ENROLLMENT
REACHESJpl MURK
Probably 100 More to Sign
Monday, Scys Frank
Chambers, Registrar.
GAIN OF 24 PER CENT
Second Day Closes Ahead of
the Last Summer Ses
sion Total.
Kiev en hundred and sixty-five stu
dentsa record-breaking number
ire now enrolled in the Summer Ses
sion of the Universitj. This was the
statement givcm out jesterday after
noon, at the close of the third da's
registration, by Frauic Chambers, Uni
versity registrar.
But these are not all. "We expect
at least 100 more to register Monday,"
said .Mr. Chambers. "Our accommoda
tions for signing up have been chang
ed. Xew instructions as to the pro
cedure can be obtained Mondaj hi tn
front corridor of Academic Hall."
Forty-two persons enrolled jester
day, as compared with forty-three on
the third day last .vear. The com
plete registration now stands 2"."
ahead of the first three days of last
jear, which is a gain of close to 21
per cent.
Fiidaj's recorJ, announced as an
even 1,100 at :!::!0 o'clock, climbed to
1,12.! before the closing hour. In so
doing, it shattered the record of last
jear, when the final list of students
numbered 1,114.
L. w
RUM VS. JIL, HFR1ED HERE
Ifev.
H. H. Elwnug Conducts Funeral
of Columbia Contractor.
The funeral services of L. W. Du
mas, Jr , president of the Dumas Con
struction Company of this city, who
died from tumor of the spinal cord at
the Xew Baptist Sanitarium in St.
I.ouis Thur.sdav night, was held at the
Prcbvterinai Church at 10 o'clock jes
terday morning Dr. W. W. Elwang
conducted the services.
The pallbearers were C. v. Fuit-
nev, J. I'. Meltaine, Bovle G. Clark. S.
F Conlej-, C C Bowling, I. T. G. Stone,
T. K. Catron and C L Torbitt. Burial
was in the Columbia Cemeterj-.
ITALY'S CABINET OUT
Chamber of Deputies Votes
a Lack of Confidence
in the Government.
ISy Unlliil Press.
ROMH. June 10. The Chamber of
Deputies tonight voted a lack of confi
dence in the government. The cabinet
is expected f icdgn immediate' v.
Salandra 3Iaj Head Nevv Cabinet.
Ily United Press.
ROMH, June 10. Premier Salandra
goes to the front tonight to confer
with King Victor Emmanuel. The
King, it is believed, will urge Salan
dra to retain office at the head of a
mew cabinet including socialists and
radicals.
Rl'SS TAKE 2 VFSTRIAN TOWNS
Rueee ami Seianke Willi r,C00 Pris-
ers Captured li) Slavs.
Ily I'nlteil Press.
PETROGRAD, June 10. The Aus
trian town of Buc7ec, near Stanislau,
and the village of Seianke have been
captured bj- the Russians, it was of
ficially announced tonight. The Slavs
have taken Ti.fiOO prisoners. There
have been Russian victories along the
whole front, it was announced.
Russians Force Auslriniis Rack.
I! United Press.
VIEXXA. June 10. The war office
tonight admitted the Russian attacks
have driven the Austrians across the
lower Strypa.
Thomas (.'raj Is Improving.
Thomas Graj, who has been sick as
the result of drinking carbolic acid.
was much improved last night. Mem
bers of his familj- say that he will
probably be up in a few dajs. The idea
of suicide is scouted by Gray and the
familj-.
To Hold Revival at Hartslmrg.
The Rev. A. II. Coffman, pastor of
the Wilkes Boulevard Methodist
Church, will leave tomorrow to hold
a revival meeting at Hartsburg. Mr.
Coffmaai plans to be gone for two
w eeks.
With Husband to Japan
p in F
Sir. Oscar E. Riiej.
R. II. ll'R.NER SVILS FOR JM'AN
X. F. Alminiiis Is Acrniiipaiiietl Ipj Mr.
and .Mrs. Oscar Rilej.
Ralph IL Turner of Bartlesville,
Okla, who was graduated from the
School of Joiirua'i&m this n.onth, and
.Mr. and Mrs. Oscar H. Riley of St.
lxjuis sailed jesterday from San Fran
cisco for Tokio. Japan, where Turner
and Rilej-, who is also a giaduate of
the School of Journalism, will be em
plojed on the Japan Advertiser, the
principal newspaper of the island em
pire published in the English lan
guage. Mr. Rilej was married about
two months ago to Miss Catherine
Armory Palmer of Xew York City. Mr.
Rilej- has been emplojed on the St
I ouis Globe-Democrat.
Prof, and Mrs Charles G. Ross and
children and Miss Margaret Murphy
will sail Tuesday from San Francisco
for Australia, where Professor Ross
will be cniplnjetl on the Melbourne
Herald during his j ear's leave of ab
sence from the Universitj-.
E. B. CAUTHORN LEAVES
C. 11. S. Principal Will
Head Dallas, Tex., School
at Increased Salary.
V. B. Cauthorn, II. S. in C. E. '91 and
B. S. in Ed '1."., principal of the Colum
bia High School for almost (nineteen
j'ears, has accepted the position of
principal of the new Forest Avenue
High School in Dallas, Tex., at a sal
arj of $2,.i00, almost twice as much as
he is getting in his present position.
The Forest Avenue High School, one
of the four in Dallas, is being built
this summer under the plans of W. B.
Ittner of St. Louis, who also planned
Columbia High School. The Dallas
school will cost S 100,000.
The board was unanimous in its
choice of Mr. Cauthorn. The school
will have 1,000 pupils and :.- teachers.
Mr. Cauthorn was the holder of the
Rollins scholarship in engineering
when a student here. He is a member
of the Tau Beta Pi, an honorary en
gineering societj- He taught mathe
matics in the Universitj- and is a mem
ber of Phi Delta Kappa, am honorary
educational fraternitj- and of the
American Societj- of Civil Engineers.
Mr. Cauthorn was citj- engineer of Co
lumbia from 1101 to I!U0 and planned
the first street paving work done In
Columbia. He was also emplojed bj
the Ivouisiana Exposition Company
aaid laid out the Louisiana Exposition
roads, bridges and paths.
Xo successor to Mr. Cauthorn will
be elected this jear. Superintendent
J. E. McPherson will have charge of
the Columbia High School for the
present.
(JIVES SUM) TO STUDENT UNION'
J. S. Brown, '()!, Contributes .Second
Donation to New Plan.
J. S. Brown, who was graduated
from the School of liw in 190fl and is
now practicing law in Chicago, has
written J. (!. Babb, ecretarj- of the
Universitj-, informing him that he will
contiibute flOO to the Missouri Student-Alumni
Union. This is the sec
ond pledge whirh has been received,
C. B. Rollins of Columbia being the
first contributor, with $1,000.
UNION' SERVICES THIS EVENING
The Rev. .Madison A. Hart Hill Talk
at Rroatlwaj .Methodist Church.
Union services will be held at the
Broadway Methodist Church at 7:45
o'clock tonight. The Rev. Madison A.
Hart of the Christian Church will
speak on "Are We a Nation or a Jum
ble of Nationalities'''
T.R. WILL STAY OUT
ON CONDITION; MAY
STUMP FOR HUGHES
"ROME OEFE.NSE, IIVRMO.W
AM) lU'CIIES," is SLOGi.N
ISy Unlti'il Press.
CHICAGO, June 10. "Home
Defense, Harmony and Hughes"
is the Republican slogan for the
coming presidential campaign.
Hughes' statement that he is
Tor undivided allegiance, his
views on preparedness and the
tariff as expressed this after
noon are considered cminently
satisfactory by the leaders here.
These three issues will be para
mount in the coming campaign.
Roosevelt's non-acceptance of
the Progressive nomination is
believed tonight to have ce
mented the two parties together
.MOOSE .MAY .OMI.ATE AGAIN
Leaders Mould Accept T. R. Refusal,
Rut I f-ailicnls Sa) Vo.
I!v Unlti'il Press.
CHICAGO, June 10 Some of the
.Moose leaders tonight ravored the ac
ceptance of Roosevelt's tentative re
fusal as a definite rejection of the
nomination and the part.v. Others be
lieved he could be persuaded to run.
The most radical of the Progressives
are determined to continue the party
at anj- cost and are ready to nominate
another presidmtial csjidltlate. Gov
ernor Hiram Johnson of California
said the fight would be kept up.
Others aIo pledged to fight for con
tinuation. HILL RE NO IIEMOCRVTIC SPLIT
Chairman McComlis Sins Rrvan Can't
Talk Hitlniiit Delegates' Consent,
r.y Uiilteil Pns
nil , Mill. T trt III !!.- i
' '"-', J""" !" uiipossiuie.
Chairman McCombs of the Democratic ' I;, x-I,it ,i Press
Xational Committee said tonight when) "wASIIIXGTOX, June 10. Hughes
told that Victor .M unlock had told the , refused to comment tonight on the
Progressive delegates in Chicago that Koosevelt refusal to accept the Pro
there would be a Democratic partj-' Kressive nomination.
split. Mt Combs said that Brjan was)
not a delegate to the St. I.ouis conven- i Fairbanks Probablj Will Accept.
titi .mil tlio nnlv lint- lio nnlllfl lnt n i 'V ' Hill '1 I ress.
voice in the proceedings was bj- the
consent of all the delegates on the
floor.
Tuft Mil Stump for Hughes.
I!v Fulfill Press.
PHILADELPHIA, June 10. William
Howard Taft will take the stump for
Hughes, he practically admitted to
night.
Ililtlifmk Maj Read Committee.
Ilv United Press
CHICAGO, June 10. Steps are be
ing taken here tonight to name Frank
Hitchcock chairman of the Republican
National Committee when it meets to
elrct officers.
COLUMBIA GIRL WE0S;i;;
Miss Mittie V. Robnett Be -
fOITieS Bride of Dr. Elbert
r t? 1
Li. opence Ol rlllton.
.Miss Mittie V. Robnett, daughter of cd IV delegates sprang from their
Mr. and Mrs. D. A. Robnett, was mar- seats with wild jells and marc!i?d
ried at the Christian Church last night about the hall.
to Dr. Elbert L. Spence, former in- iiirlanks was nominated f.ir v in
structor in bacteriology and pre- iretUent a short time afterward, re
ventive medicine in the University and ct.'.ng SO.', votes. Burkett rc.-vived
now assistant phjsician and patholo- lo?, Webster, 2; Johnson. 2: Siralor
gist at the State Hospital at Fulton.
Doctor Spence is the son of Judge and
Mrs. J. D. Spence of Kennctt, Mo.
The Rev. Madison A. Hart officiated.
The bride was attended by her sister,
Miss Helen Robnett, who was maid
of honor, by Mrs. J. M. Estcs. another
sister, who was matron of honor, and Hughes' statement said that he in
by Miss Virginia Estes, flower girl., dorses every plank in the Republican
Alec Denny Estes was ring bearer. platform; doesn't desire the nomtna-
Dr. R. J. Kerner of the History De- tion but consideres it his duty to ac
partment of the University was best 'tept; urges the maintenance of Ameri
man. The groomsmen were Dudley can rights under international law;
Robnett'and C. R. Rollins, Jr., of Co-, believes in no divided allegiance (the
lumbia, Bennett Clark of Bowling pjp'scn uuestlon); wants JnnoraM"
Green. Elliott Major, Jr., of Jefferson peace, but preparedness of commer-Citj-,
and Dr. O. M. Biggs of Fulton. cial resources as well as war-like
The wedding march was plajed by preparedness.
Mrs. Martin Hamilton of Fulton, In the Progressive convention,
cousin of the bride. .1. M. Estes sang. Roosevelt's name was put ',ef-.-f the
The bride is a graduate of the Uni- '!lcs?:?. end three minjtes later e
versity and of Christian College. She was nominated by acclamation. Chair
is a member of the Phi Beta Kappa, man Robins lashed the delegates to
the academic honor societj", and of the
Pi Beta Phi sororitj-. Doctor Spence
is a graduate of Tulane University.
An informal supper was served
after the wedding at the home of the wanted Governor Johnson to run. but
bride's parents. The couple will be he flatly refused, saying that Rnose
at home at Fulton after Julj Ivelt was the man for the place.
Colonel Refuses the Moose
Nomination Temporarily,
Putting Matter Up to the
Republican Candidate and
the Progressive Committee.
WOULD HAVE JUDGE
DENOUNCE GERMANS
l!y I'nlUiI Press.
OI.S'IEK BIY, S. June 10. If
Hughes will denounce Hie ('ernian
Anierlcaii Alliance bj name. Roose
velt will accept hint and take the
slit nip with the Republicans In an ef
fort to defeat Wilson next falL
'I his statement was made cnnfl
dentiailj tonight, although Roosevelt
would issue no statement for publica
tion. 11 United Press.
CHICAGO, June 10. Colonel Roose
velt in a message to the Progressive
Party tonight said he cannot accept
the nomination at this time. He stated
that he desired that his conditional
refusal be placed in the hands of the
Progressive Xational Committee while
the committee went over Hughes
statements. Roosevelt asks that the
committee decide whether it is best
for the country for Hughes to be
elected, and if the committee so holds
to treat the Colonel's refusal as fi
nal.
John M. Parker of Louisiana was
named late this afternoon as the Pro
gressive vico-nresideiitial nnmliien.
' Krev,ne
Governor Hiram Johnson of California
refused to run for the vicc-presidencj-.
, .v i1.fllvnv f r..n,.,,n,.
I INDIANAPOLIS. Intl.. June 10.
Fairbanks has not jet accepted the
Republican vice-presidential noinina-
tion. He is expected to, however.
j Fairbanks wired congratulations to
i Hughes tonight.
THIRD RALLOI' NUIES HUGHES
Roosevelt Is Choice of Progressives (
a Unanimous Vote.
Charles E. Hughes was nominated
as the Republican candidate for Presi
dent on the first ballot at Chicago j-es-tertlaj
the third of the convention
with :l!'i. votes. Roosevelt ran a
poor second, with lS'i. The other
men who received votes were Lodge,
7; Dupont, .".; Weeks, '.'.; UiFollettc,
The Missouri delegation cast thlr-
-four votes for Hughes and two for
,e3k.s The Illinois delegation voted
solidly for Hughes.
Just as the roll call for the nomiiia-
' tion started, the news that the Pro-
srcsives had nominated Roosevelt by
acclamation was received, and the
convention hall was a scune of sulcni-
'nitv, but when the result was anrounc-
Borah, 7. Four delegates did rot vote.
Hughes resigned his position as
justice of the United States Supreme
Court, and his message accepting the
nomination was read at 1 o'clock in
the afternoon. The convention then
adjourned.
Roosevelt by suspending rules. This
created some cpjestion as to the regu-
Ilarity of the procedure.
Some of the Insurgent Progressives
, !
