ftotttttg
MIGHT
EXTRA
iX -J " --IJPv?!
NIGH
"r ;-tt,'- Ii
EXTRA
YOli. H.-NO. 192
PHILADELPHIA., TUESDAY, .APRIL 25, 191G.
Constants 1810, i inn rcuo Linorj Coutxirt.
PBIOfl ONE OJDOT
h
.REVOLUTION GRIPS IRELAND;
. BRITISH ROUT GERMAN FLEET
QUICK-MEWS
WW
fe?r"
OK
si
m r'
KAISER'S WARSHIPS FLEE,
PURSUED feY BRITONS, AFTER
BATTLE IN THE NORTH SEA
jprerman Squadron De
feated in Sharp Com
bat, After Bombard-
. ment of Suffolk Coast
Powerful Squadron .Shells
Lowestoft, Killing Five Per
sona Two English Cruisers
and One Destroyer Hit, Ad-
'i m n A
N mirnity Jttoporc Announces
LONDON, Aprlt 26.
': A German naval squadron was defeated
by n British squadron In tho North Sea
today.
An official statement was issued by the
Admiralty shortly after noon, stating that
tho' German warships wero In flight, being
pursuod by tho British men-of-war.
,. The squadrons consisted of battle crul
& ocra, light crutfcors and destroyers.
' Tho battle was fought so close to tho
.shore that persons on land could hear the
Toar of tho guns and see tho shells drop
ping Into the sea.
3?lrlng-was, first heard about 4 o'clock.
Bellowing Is tho text of the Admiralty
tatembnt: I
At 4:30 this' morning a German bat
, tie cfulser squadron,, accompanied by
i light cruisers nnd destroyers, tip- ,
peared off Lowestoft.
Local naval forces engaged tho ene
my and 20 minutes later the Germans
returned to Germany chased by light
crutsors and deBtroyors.
" On shore two men. one -woman and
a child were killed. Tho material
damage was Insignificant.
Two British, cruisers and one de
stroyer wero hit,, but, nono was Blink.
THo . German ships had been able to
jierietrato, the' British patrol lines In the
darkness and naval "officers were not cer
tain, tqhe'thor tho Germans had' come- out
to gf'He battlo'on to bojnbard tho English
coast , .
TrftvloW to the naval engagement the
German ." ships had shelled the English
.coast; at powestqft, .killing two men., a
yJ?"""" .,S L'vr- -'w'- "i -s-";1-
wan. Blight , . ,, ..; , ' - ,
From tho Admiralty announcement -of
the. presence .of the aerrtian Warships in
SiSngllsh'watorii.'was not Known until they
jvrere'wlthln range of Bhore. Through the
.darkness' tho raiders made their way to
the Suffolk coast and thorl". opened fire.
Tho fact that two of the Zeppelins
which raided the east coast last night
passed .over Suffolk County, not far from
f that section of Suffolk which' was shelled,
led' to a theory that the squadron had
been guided across the North Sea by tho,
balloons.'
This was the second time since tho war
started, that German warships' have boen
- able to get within range of tho English
coast. In December, 1914, Scarborough
was shelled by a flotilla.
Just before the Admiralty issued Its of
ficial statement on the naval battle a
press dispatch had been received from
Amsterdam that British warships, while
patrolling tho Belgium coast off Zeebrugge
came upon three German destroyers. Tho
English men-of-war opened Are, some ot
the projectiles taking effect.
This morning's Tald by German war
ships, the first- since tho bombardment- of'
' Scarborough and Hartlepool, pn Decem
ber 10, 1914, was at once connected In
me puoua mina wrin air Jioger casement's-
attempted landing on the Irish
coast and last night's midnight Zeppelin
raid.
The popular guess was that the1 Ger
mans planned a three-angled campaign
of terrorism, counting upon first starting
an uprising in Ireland and then descend
ing, upon the east coast with cruisers and
Zeppelins.
"Whether the German cruisers emerged
from the; submarine base at Zeebrugge,
Belgium, where the several light vessels
capable of serving as auxiliary cruisers
are reported to have been lying, or whether
they descended from the Heligoland naval
base la not yet known. All the raiding
warships were described as of exceptional
speed,
FAY AND HIS ASSOCIATES'
ON TRIAL FOR CONSPIRACY
-' Arraigned on Charge of Attempt to
Blow Up Munition Ships
NEW Y0IIK, April 25. Accused of
conspiring to blow up munition- ships,
H Lieut. Robert Fay and his two accom
plices, waiter Bcnuuz. and Paul Droche,
were placed on trial before Federal Judge
Howe today. The Government will call
35 witnesses and the trial is expected to
last two weeks. If convicted, the defend
anta may receive a sentence ot 10 years'
imprisonment .
A 4-foot model of the stern of a single-
- eorew steamship, showing the. method Of
auacains comes to me ruaaer, will be one
of the Government's exhibits. Explosives,
bombs and letters, alleged to have been
found in Fays quarters, also will be
produced.
TUB WEATHER
t
FORECAST -
For Philadelphia and vieinily
Glwdv and vntttled tonight and
We$mhVi with probably showers;
not much change in temperature
moderate variable winds..
fyf details -set page IS.
in ' '
JS2 AND TOTTNB
Mt, brown terrier, whit mdat an
ljrsf 110 re war J. JUturn to 23S Uoweq
M, Maunt Airy.
aOUi. .JJBACBLBt. .WATCH imt.
laUlala
rw'd.
It, wr.; wuira k rtiMm un, uta,
ltO(r-LJrit. large nd Chaw Chow do, mi ilur.
. Vtra, Ibwr, Aprtl 2. BtWB t
Mt wit Xqmi Aii m Push 15 sd JS
Aberdeehx
dimmer
.'
J
. tfjogger j
LOWttTcrr
c-
S
"-'
RAIDED BY GERMAN. SHIPS
Lowestoft, a fishing, town of 35,
000 people, was shelled by a Ger
, man squadron, which was aftcr
' ward engaged by British wor
ships. This followed a Zeppelin
raid a few hours, earlier on the
coast of Norfolk.
BERLIN BEGINS
DJRAFT OF REPLY
IN HOPEFUL MOOD
Guided. By Pesire to: -Avert'
Breatf With U.,S,aoii
'-..' U;BqIslje?J:: 7
-MAY. ..ANSyjJlLtfHIS WEEK-
BERLIN. Afcrll 25.
The International News Service fa per
mitted to Btiitotlmt the Ge'rmanFbrelgn
Otnce la exceedingly hopeful of averting
a break between Germany and the "United
Sttftoa ovor tho submarine Issue. Work'
on the preliminary draft of a'reply to .the
recent American note was begun this
morning after a conference between
Chancellor von Bethmann-Hollweg and
iForelgn "Minister von Jagow. When com
pleted It wilt be submitted to the .Chan
cellor for his approval and then be trans
mitted to Emperor 'William at army head
quarters. It Is hoped at the Foreign Office that
the reply may be started to America
Thursday evening, or within 24 hours of
that time, at the very latest.
Ambassador Gerard declined today to
make any comment on the situation, but
the optimism at the Imperial Foreign Of
fice was reflected at the American
Embassy.
WASHINGTON. Aprjl 26, That Ger
many has decided to meet the views of
thp United States regarding her future
conduct, of submarine warfare was the
general belief In diplomatic circles to
day., This opinion was reflected In sources
close to Count von Bernstorff, German
Ambassador, who ever since the sinking
of tho Lusltanla, almost a year ago, has
been .working night- and day to maintain
amicable relations betwe'en hla home
Government and that ot the United
States. "
The Ambassador himself was supposed
to be en route to Washington from New
York. At the Embassy It was stated he
had sent no word as to when he could
be expected and that he had been Joined
In New York last night by Prlnca von
Hatzfeldt-Tracfttenberg, counselor of the
Embassy. But there was an apparent
feeling of optimism In German circles to
day which has been absent during the
last few days. v
Secretary of State Lanalne, In the ab
sence of President Wilson, declined to"
comment on tho situation. Itegardlng
certain dispatches sent from Washington
which were supposed, to give the "exact
facts' aa to the reports received from
Ambassador Gerard, on. the German attitude-,
especially to outline the language
Continued on Va.fi: Tour, Column Two
I, W. W. MOB THHEATEtfS MINERS
Thirty-flve Arresfed After Demon
stration a Colliery
PITTSTON, Pa., April 26. A raoh of
J. W. W. members, armed with guns and
clubs, surrounded th Fernwood colliery
of the Erie Coal Cqmpapy here thfa morn
ing, threatening ylolerice to tha working
men, A sqUad of State Constabulary, sheriff's
deputies and company jantcers rushed to
tha scene and made a round-up. Thlrty
tlve arrests were- made and the men were
brought to Flttston and shipped in larga
autotrucks to the county Jail.
Two, Injured on Streets
Meyer Thomas, 8 year old, of 925
Fulrinount avenue, and Mrs, Mary tic.
Cormiclc, 68 yeaw'old, of HH Chestnut
street, were taken' to the Hahnemann Hos
pital last night as tha result of being
knocked down by traftlc la the centra) part
of the city. Both were suSerlngsfram con-,
tuslona and shock. Thomas was lilt while
a( Broad and Race streets by a' motorcar
driven by Isaac Cohen, of the St James
Hotel. Cohen was held under t ioa bail In
the nlsht court to await the rcaultf of
the boy' !nurta. Mr McCormlck -was.
hit while at Broad and Chestnut streets
by o vnWe&tifleil HOf.gfi a Meyl.i.'
v mRFOL'fiJj
Dover' i "
SP.rstiV Jns
r
U. S. COLUMN HOT
ON VILLA'S TRAIL;
0BREG0N FEARED
Outlaw Chieftain Reported
Near Nohoava, in Chi
huahua State
HOPE OP EARLY CAPTURE
Dispatches from tho Mexican bor
der today said a now dash for Pnncho
Villa had been niado in the direction
of Nononvn, whero ho has been re
ported. A small cavalry force is on
tho march. ""
It is intimated that General Obre
gon, Carrnnza War Minister, when ho
confors with Chief of Staff Scott, will
demand that tho United States rccog-
nizc him as tlip head of the Mexican
Government. It is said he and Car
rnnza have broken and that Obrcgon
now is tho real power. '
It is said Obrcgon will demand this
recognition as tho prlco of permitting
unmolested continuance of tho expe
dition to get Villa.
Rcdisposition of the American
forces now in Mexico is under way,
consisting Inrgely of withdrawal to
ward and concentration vat Namiquipa,
General Pershing's present headquar
ters. New troops continue to arrive at
Columbus, and arc being sent to points
along tho lines of communication.
CAVALRY IN DASH FOR VILLA,
REPORTED NEAR N0N0AVA
. COLUMBUS, N. M April 25, A new
dash for ,VilIa was reported today to have
been started by an American detachment
while tho main' expeditionary forces wero
being concentrated at Nnmlqutpa- nnd
.Colonla Dublari.
A. column; of cavalrv Wns said tn he
driving, swiftly toward 'VIllo-''' Iasli ro
oorta'd' "hldlnc Dlac In .the -ChlhuMuin.
Ji.rMneaJoaYa,4aflu4irr'?
moyornqni ,'werej ooiainaujo nere, xwo-
.""' . :"-"".;.'?" ,-- o ...v..r ,.,.,
tests "at the ipear camp were, expected to
fjqln Htf qhaso. '
Tho. lost , of. ,the 2300 reinforcements
ordered nearly a week' ngo were expected
here today. One troop of-the 10th Cav
alry, has arrived vand"will immediately
Join Us regiment In Mexico.
WASHINGTON. April 25. Benewed
hope ot Vlllay capture arose today in
army circles upon .receipt of official dis
patches from Consul Letcher,' at Chihua
hua City, reliably locating: the bandit
chieftain 60 miles southwest of Sntevo and
west of Parral.
Nonoava. mentioned earlier today In
border dispatches aa being" tho' objective
of the dash for Villa, Is about 60 mites
southwest of Satevo and almost due west
Continued on Tate Four, Column One
WRITES TO CORONER,
"GET MY DEAD B0DY
THEN KILLS HIMSELF
Joseph Freeman, 6Q6 Diamond
St., Makes Careful Prepara
tions for Death, Even to Pay--ing
for Inconvenience
ASKS FOR CREMATION
Registered letter No. 44,360 lay In the
middle of the stack of .mall on Coroner
Knight's desk In City Hall this morning.
The Coroner leisurely went through
the sack, opening- envelope after envelope
It was a very ordinary day In the Cor
oner's office, and the opening of the morn
ing mall was merely a matter of dreary
routine.
But suddenly the steady rustling' ceased.
The Coroner, half way through the biff
stack of mall, had opened registered letter
No. 41,360. It was addressed. In a Bteady
hand, to the Coroner of Philadelphia, and
.had been mailed last night. The back
of. the 'envelope contained the return nam!
and' address of Joseph Freeman, 606 Dia
mond street.
But that Is not what puzzled the
Coroner, The letter contained money.
FINDS THE MONEY.
The envelope had yielded two pieces
ot paper, one blue and the other white.
The one was a money order for MS and
tha other an prder for 1171 in favor ot
Joseph Freeman from Klemm & Keen,
1326 Walnut street, to t the lUUenhousa
Trust Company. '
Coroner Knight studied them. Why
had any one sent htm 31867 ' fie, peered
into the envelope and pulled out a piece
of folded" paper. It rea45
' . THE ISTTER,
. . April 24. me.
To the Coroner of Philadelphia: ,
Dear Sir! Enclosed you will And
money order for the balanco of my
cash, 116, and an order from Klemni
& Keen, 1336 Walnut street, to the
JUUeohouse Trust Company, for the
gum ot 1111.33, in my favor.
J bee you to Inquire Immediately in
riiy residence, f06 Diamond street, and
remove my dead body.
I desire to be cremated, Avoid all '
unnecessary expense, and remit to
A. B. SpecHer, 606 Diamond street, the
sum pf 135 for the unpleasant occur
rence. There will be left a fair bal
ence, which you. will kindly apply for
tha most needy fellow men. For In
stance, a poor man )a discharged from
a hospital without mean and Is too
weak to wprk. I wish, yoij to give,
fastiacsd jiir Cliaj.Siw
DUBLIN CENTRE OF REVOLT;
MAIN PART OF IRISH CAPITAL
WON BY INSURRECTIONARY
Ppstoffice Recaptured in Second Up
rising Casement Conspiracy Part
of Ceneral Movement Tele
graph Communication Cut
LONDON, April 25.
Irish revolutionists are in possession of four or five parts of tho city of
Dublin after 24 hours of most serious rioting, Augustine Blrrcll, Chief Secre
tary for Ireland, announced in tho House of Commons this afternoon.
Blrrcll announced that arrests have been made, but said he was unablo
at this time to give any names.
Telegraphic communication with Dublin has been cut ofT, indicating that
the prlncipnl portion of the city is held by the Irish.
Rioting broke out afresh after soldiers arriving from Currngh put down
tho first rising. Secretary Birrell first announced to Commons that tho riots
had been quelled and that the soldiers had recaptured the Dublin postoffico,
which was taken in tho first outburst of yesterday.
Twelve persons were killed in tho first battle, but because of the inter
ruption of telegraphic communication the Government has no estimate, on
the total number of casualties. '
DR. WHITE'S BRAIN
WILL BE STUDIED
BY PATHOLOGISTS
Surgeon Often Expressed
Wish That Science Should
Benefit Thus
NO FUNERAL SERVICES
The. brain ot Dr. J. William "JVhlte,
surgeoa of International Teputp, who died I
"Jfe-sps JSiasRSsass.
will' bo femoveif" somec" Urge today, ,by
will' hft ntmnAl aoitim ttmA tadhv hv
sylvanla for tho1 purpose of" study.
The quick removal iVan decided on be
cauao no definite date for the funeral
arrangements had been made. The family
announced that no public or religious
services would bo held over the body, as
Dr. White had never professed Christian
ity. Tho removal, of the brain of Doctor
White was' In" accordance with hl ex
pressed wishes. Together with other pro
fessional leaders, he always said he
wanted his brain turned over to scientist
scientists.
Out In the laboratory of tho Wlstar
Institute, where there nro brains of such
meh as Dr. Joseph Leldy, General iBanc
J. Wlstar and Dr. William Pepper, will
probahly be placed the gray matter that
made Dr. White a great man.
, It la .not known definitely whether the
brain will go to the Wlstar Institute or
tho Baugh Institute, although It is be
lieved that the former will be the re
cipient. The American Anthropometric
Society will be .the probnble custodian,
na has been the case with similar In
stances In former years.
A comparison ot the surgeon's brain
with other men of high note will follow.
Peculiarities In formation will be studied.
"It (the comparison) Is not a question of
a few minutes, but a- lifetime," said one
of tho physicians who attended Doctor
White during his illness.
With the brain removed, the body of
the surgeon will be cremated and the
ashes deposited In Woodland Cemetery.
Doctor White, although not a member
of any Christian church, was not an ag
nostlo or atheist. An Intimate friend,
In making this clear this afternoon,
added i
"While Doctor, White was a many-sided
man and generally willing to talk upon
any subject which might come up In
course of conversation, he was averse to
discussing religious topics, whether appli
cable to others or to himself. He did not
seem to be an agnostic or an atheist, but
so far as I know, he never embraced any
of ttfe various creeds. He once told tne
that he did not discuss religions because
his views of the subject were not in ac-.
cordance with present-day views, but-that
in a century from now, his beliefs, would
be" generally accepted and approved."
Many telegrams, and lettera of sympathy
were received today at the White resi
dence, among them a notice from the Ath
letic Association 'of the University ex.
pressing its grief at the loss, the University
had sustained through the death of "Its
most ardent, devoted and splendidly ef
ficient member and iriena,"
The communication, which was signed
by President Geyelln, praised the surgeon,
and urged Pennsyrania men to emulate
hlra If they would -advance the University
to a higher place than jit now possesses.
Doctor White grew weaker early last
evening. He called members of his fam
ily to hla bedside In the afternoon and
Continued on Pale JFour( Columni Three
NEW JUDGE FOR R. J. & P, CASE
Louis C, Krautfioflf's Petition for Fore
closure Transferred by Jurist
CHICAGO, April 25. Judge Carpenter,
at the United States District Court, today
passed the petition of Louis C. Krauthoff,
attorney for the Peabody Stockhodlers'
Committee, for the foreclosure of the Chi
cago, Rock Island and Paclllo Railway, to
Judge Gelger. Judge Carpenter's action
was due to the fact that he had a Jury
trial upder way.
Mr. Krauthoff presented citations sup
porting his claim .that, having requested
th,e trustees to bring foreclosure proceed.
lags without result, the bondholders had
the privilege ot taking action.
Attornyjt Lee, representing Trustees
Francis, eatsl that Mr. KrautbAffs bin aid
ncsijatfli-ipwaajtoreelase, , . 4
CASEMENT REVOLUTION CHIBF.
Tho outburst of rioting. It Is considered
certain, was p'art of a Well-organized Ger
man attempt to stir up a great revolution
In Ireland. Tho abortive attempt by Sir
Roger Casement nnd a strong force of
Gorman sailors, all of whom wero cap
tured, to land on the Irish coast, un
doubtedly was part of tho scheme.
It Is bolloved here that the Germans,
using Sir Ilogor Casement as a tool, care
fully planned In advance a revolution,
counting- upon Sir Roger's dramatic ap
pearance at tho head of a German force
to sweep tho country.
For .several weeks small Irish news
papers have, been appearing, carrying
articles opposing any participation In tho
War on the part of the Irishmen. The
organization known ns the Irish Volun
teers has. held parades ns counter-demon-Ing
ngents, despite the 'Strong stand for
tho Government taken by John Redmond
nnd .other 'Irish party leaders.,
GERMANY- FURNISHES FUNDs'
h.. ' II ...1. .j-V'". '
xjiq .niiuttiiuu. ,iiaa, oeen "Krpwinp
papers,
I .vlnlimf "In ihntr-'n'o-lfntrnn ,Jrtin.,"A,uf--
.'Violent In their agitation arfhlnst 'recruit
Irtg,' wr'o suppressed. -, ,'
It has beo'11 known to the'Gorernmcnt
that this propaganda wp.b carrledsoh with
the encouragement "pf German agents. If
not with tho aid of German money. -The
Capture of Sir Roger Casement and his
band of Germans off tho coast of Ireland
gave the authorities concrete evidence of
the part Germany Is playing In the at
tempts to stir up a revolution In Ire
land. The Dublin General Postofllce, which
was seized by the rioters In the first at
tack, Is an imposing stone structure sit
uated on Sackvlllo street, a wide Dublin
boulevard. It Is admirably built to servo
as a fortress If properly maned by guns.
Dublin, tho capital of Ireland, has a
population of about. 500,000 nnd Is situated
near the entrance to Dublin Bay, on the
Irish Sea, 66 miles west of Holyhead and
133 miles west of Liverpool.
It British troops are embarked for Ire
land, to put down what now appears to bo
a terlous rebellion, they probably will
board transports at Liverpool, It is pos
sible that one of the-reasons why larger
British forces have not been dispatched to
the western front In France was the fear
of an outbreak In Ireland.
Dublin Is a modern city, with broad,
well-paved Btreets and a number of' Im
posing buildings, among them the general
postofflce mentioned In today's dispatches
rrom London. Phoenix Park, at the west
ern end of the city, is one of the finest
parks In the world, and contains a mili
tary hospital, zoological garden and the
residence of the vlceregent. -
The city Is flanked .north and south by
tha Royal and Grand" Canals, and Is sur
rounded by a circular highway. Tho
River' Liffey passes through the town and
Is crossed by numerous bridges.
The University of Dublin, the Museum
of Natural History, the Royal University
of Ireland, the Catholic University, the
National Art Gallery- and the new Science
and Arts Museums are among the Instl.
tutions pointed out to visitors. The city
is also tho Beat of a Catholic and an
Anglican archbishop.
Dublin has been held by he English
since It was conquered from the Danes
In the ninth century. The. city was the
birthplace ot Swift, Steele, Sheridan,
Thomas Moore and the Duke of Welling
ton. I10GEII QASEMENT SEIZED
M VESSEL CARRYING ARMS
FOR REVOLT IN IRELAND
LONDON, April 2B, Sir Roger Case
ment, the Irish knight, who was captured
while trying to land arms in Ireland on
the night of April 2Q.J1, for us'Jq rebel
lion, has been broilght to London' and is
now being detained, presumably In tho
Tower, awaiting military trial on the
Charge of treason. -?'
Official 'announcement of the fact that
Sir Roger had been brought' here from
Ireland wasmade by the Press Bureau
today in the following statement:
Sir Roger Casement, who was, ar
rested In an abortive attempt to land
arms In Irelaiyl from a'German ves
sel, was brought to Jnijon on Sun
day morning. lie wasmet at Huston
Station by officers from Scotland
Yard ano is nqw being detained In
custody" of the military authorities
Continue J oa t' Two. Column Iwo
Falla Dead on His Wedding Day
t LEBANON, Pa., April SS. Hersbell- R.
Ounsted felt dead ncre from shock
resulting froniVwhat was t first thought
to. be a trivial accident, when he was
struck over the heart by the lever pf a
machine lie was operating at the Amerl
can Iron and Steel Works, Olmsted was
to have been married last night to Hiss
Roan Sblvea. of this city, and was visit lsw-
ia tUuce whea -na coiiapssa.
PRESIDENT CASTS BALLOT AT PRINCETON
PRINCETON, N", J. April 85. President "Wilson arrived nt
Princeton early this nfternoon, went direct to the polls and voted for
the delegates who will support him In the national convention nt St,
Louis. The President -was met, at the station by n company of the
New Jersey National Guard. Secret service men also nccompnnled
hlirias ho made his way through town with Governor Fielder. A large
crowd, including many women, braved the raw dny to greet the Pres
ident and Mrs. Wilson.
MASSACHUSETTS NAVAL BRIGADE TOLD' TO BE READY
BOSTON, April 25. It became known today that secret orders
had been issued to the officers of the Massachusetts naval brigade to
be ready to board the battleship Kearsage, which is now In dry dook
at tho Navy Yard, nt an hour's notice with their commands. Tho
Kearsngo is ordered to be in readiness for service by Mny'15.
78,000 TELEGRAMS URGING PEACE
WASHINGTON, April 25. The facilities of the telegraph com
panies of the country nro taxed to tho utmost today, in handling tele
grams addressed. to the White House and to individual members of'
Congress. These messages deal entirely with the German submarine
situation and the general tenor of them is a plea to the President nnd
membrs of Congress to do everything possible to Jnvoid war. It is
understood that 78,000 night letters reached here last night, and
that the complete total Was not received owiug.'to the necessity to
interrupt the messages to handle urgent business.'
BRITISH WARSHIP TAKES MAIL FROM DANISH VESSEL
BERLIN, April 25. A dlBpatch from Copenhagen states that a British war"
ship halted the Danish steamship Gultfosa while en routol?rom 'Iceland to Dcn
mark and took off all the ilrst-clnss mall, matter sent by parcel post and the
passengers' baggage. Tho message says this act was denounced nt Copenhagen
as tho most flagrant violation of Jnternatlonol law yet committed by. the British.
U-BOATS SINK MORE SH1P.S
LONDON, April 25. Tho Dutch steamship Berkelstrom, bound from
Amsterdam, was ahollcd and sunk Sunday by two German submarines,- which
gave the crew IB minutes to take, to
I "
MAY NAME A COMMANDER
Rumors seemingly With good foundation Bay that Secretary Daniels expects?
to nppoiilt Commander Leigh Cnrlylo Palmer, now executive officer of the Hew
York,- to tho position now occupied by Rear Admiral Victor Bluo as chief ,of
the Bureau of Navigation. Hitherto this position has beeen occupied by expe
rienced officers of nt least tho rank of captain. It Is understood there wlh be
much dl3Hatlsfactlon If Palmer, who Is but -13, is appointed. The position of
chief of thevBureau of Navigation carries With It the rank nnd ealary of a Rear
.Admiral. s
STUMBLES INTO, DELAWARE AND IS DROWNED
The body of an unidentified middle-aged man was recovered from thta Dela
ware River this morning by tho crew of tho police boat Ashbrldge after the man
accidentally fell Into tho river near Chestnut street. The. body Is at tho Morgue.
At 2 o'clock this morning tho driver of a. bakery 'wagon saw tho man stumblo
and fall Into the water. George Necl, a ticket agent at the Reading ferries,
succeeded In holding up the body by means of a boat hook until tho police boat
arrived.
LQOK OUT! BOGUS TEN-DOLLAR BILLS ARE ABROAD
Warning against accepting b6gus $10 bills Is Issued today by the Secret
Service Department In the Federal Building as a result of the experience of New.
Yorkers, who have been "hit" by a. J10 counterfeit campaign. The counterfeits
are of Federal reserve bank notes. "Experts, who Issue the warning, declare ttfey. ,
are somewhat smaller than the Government notes and nro a trifle Btiffer and
thicker than the original.
RUMANIA AND TURKEY SEEK TRADE RACT
BERLIN, April 25. Progress Is being made' In tho negotiations between
the Turkish Government and a Rumanian delegation with regard .toa conv'en?
tlon similar to the ngreement recently concluded between Germany and Rumania,
says a dispatch from Constantinople to the Overseas News Agency. According:
to the Turkish newspapers, "both sides are showing good will and a desire Jto
reach an understanding which will strengthen the cordial relations existing be
tween theTtwo countries."
BRITISH ADVANCE 35 MILES IN AFRICA
LONDON, April 25, Continuing their advance In German East Africa, the
British expeditionary forces have occupied the town of Kondoa, In tha district ot
IrangI, "Telegraphing on Sunday," says the official statement, "General Smuts'
reports that troops under General Vanderventer, after defeating the enemy
before Kondoa, IrangI, on April 16, occupied that place. Prisoners were taken
and, a considerable number of casualties Inflicted oh the German forces, which
retired in the direction ot the Central Railway," Kondoa Is about S5 miles' south
of Umbugwe, occupation of which was reported on Saturday, This Is the.furtheqt,
point In the Interior which has been reached by the British expedition, which ap
parently is being pushed forward rapidly.
BRITISH CRUISER HALTS U. S. SCHOONER -
MOBILE, Ala., April 25. A British cruiser halted the American .schooner
Flora A. Kimball, off the bar of Mobile Bay last night, and later, disguised an
a passenger vessel, overhauled the British steamship Lcngscar, holding" her until
satisfied of her identity. Pilots up from the Oulf say that the cruiser came 'close,
alongside their vesse late In the' afternoon and that the decks were ..cleared for
action. . a j& j,
PRESIDENT HERE ENROUTE TO PRINCETON TOJVOTE
i President Wilson jaccorapanled by Mrs. Wilson, passed through uie West
'Philadelphia Station in the President's private car Superb at ;22jelock this
morning en route to Princeton, where the President will vote todayjja the New
Jersey primaries. The train, which arrived in West Philadelphia about SO mhu
utes late, remained n the station for eight minutes, -purlngr tfi& time Mrs.
Wilson played solitaire, while tho President sat' beside be"r. head.Kaniog upw)
his hand. Few persons were In the station at the time. .''
I , ,l.,u
KING AND CZAR "CERTAIN" OP VIPTQRY
LONDON, AjrU 25 King George sent the following telegram on JEasttr Bay
to Emperor Nicholas: "Today, when tiy happy coincidence our tw natlonJV
celebrating Baxter, and we are commemorating gt. George. I cannot refraf a roR
sending you congratulations in wnewsd confidence In the victory or the All!!
armies. I followed with delight ihe recent victorfauijachlevements of your Jsal
lant army." Emperor Nicholas replied: "Warmest tbpks foe your aatw KtmU
ings and good wishes, 3 entirely share your conjSteace ta tha ultimate n-imem
Hot-pw:0106" "t -
A
the boats'.- The,'aptaln,apa crew hav.e'
' ' ' ' . -
TO REAR ADMIRAL'S foicik
h
.':
I
t
