j m, ia P.yiii.iTVr"fC' aM
THREE BRITISH WARSHIPS HIT IN COAST BATTLE
Weather Showers Probable To-Nlght and Wednesday
EDITION
I "Circulation Books Open to All" I
Ht" Circulation Books Open to AU."
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copjrlditi 11)111. by Tlif I'rnt I'aMlihlnl
C.i. (Hie w Vurk World).
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 1916.
18 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
mi
''JOeM
1
mmi
jjl EDITION
MOW,
WW
IRISH IN DUBLIN RISE IN REVOLT;
REBELS STILL HOLD PARTS OF CITY
GERMAN SQUADRON DASHES
ACROSS NORTH SEATO BRITAIN;
DRIVEN BACK AFTER BATTLE
i
r. e. xxl lcivo uuwcLUii., l unuwiiigi
a Raid by Zeppelins British Fleet
and Air Squadron Bombard Ger
mans on Belgian Coast.
LONDON, April 2. Raids by war squadrons by both the Ger
mans and the British the first in many months marked to-day's de
velopment of the operations on the British and Belgian coasts. In each
case the warships were accompanied by air I leek.
A squadron of German battle cruisers and lis-ht cruisers raided the
I:nglih east coast under cover of darkness at ! o'clock A. M. to-day, but
was driven otf in a siiarp engagement with British cruisers and destroyers.
The announcement of this raid wa made b the BritK-h Admiral.).
News of a llritish raid on the lift -
ill. ill pos.tiolls im tiip Helglali roast i
come from Amsterdam. The de-
np."ilches fay the (ierman naval hie'
lit Zee brugge ttil other towns wei. '
subjected In .i lemtlc bombardment
from tin fu white an .up squauron
threw down shells on tin- (.Jcrnnn
batteries.
The (ii'iiii.tns bombarded the Brit
ish seaside report of lAiwcstuft, 100
miles northeast of London, at long
lange, killing two men. a woman anil
n child lu tlieir beds. The bombard -nicnt
did no great il.iin.icc.
Kngngcd li llritish fores In n hot
twenty-minute flu-tit, the liYrmuu
tnnde their c.ic.ipo In the darkness.
Two llritish light cruisers and out
destroyer wi re lilt, luit none of Iho
warships was sunk.
The Herman cruiser squadron ap
peared oft' I,owrstoft five hours after
three Zeppelins appeared off the coxst
on a bomb dropping expedition. The
Xopplitif. dropped rcvent) Incendiary
bombs, Injuilng one man, but doing
no great damage. At about the same
time uh th" emmer raid llvu Herman
warplanes attacked the Krcneh port of
Dunkirk nrross the channel, killing u
woman and wounding three, men.
Tho olllclal nnnouneenu'iit of the
raid of the Uorman squadron, Issuod
by the Admiralty, Is as follows:
"At about 4.30 o'clock this morn
ing tho rierman cruiser squadron,
accompanied by light cruisers and
destroyers, appeared off Lowes
toft. Tho local naval forces en
gaged It, and In about twcnlv
minutes It return" d to llerniMiy,
chased b our lifilit cruisers and
destroyers.
"On shore two men, ono woman
and a child wero killed. Tho ma
terial damns" M'cms to have been
Insignificant, so far as is Known at
prudent. Two lltltlsh light cruihcrs
and a destroyer wero lilt, but none
wen sunk."
Tho despatch describing tin- bom
bardment f the (lernian position,! on
tho Hclglnii i-oii't .-.us:
"Several llritbh warships, uc- .
companled by destroyers ami other
vessels, vcsleidu.v bombaiilod Zee
brut'fc'o nail the liermait batteries
off lle6t, Ul.inKeiibei'Kho and
Kuocke The b.Jiiib.iriliuinl was
ono of the hrawest shue the be
Rlnnum of tin- war, and also of thu
longest iluiail'm.
"The damaM'' dune at rhrtiKRii
Is s;ili lo hae In en i iiurinous.
Tho haibor and nocks vce hit
several times mid m'iiih .-hipM weio
sunk. Hrltlsh mrciatt ali-o ihrcw
bombs on Uenniui batterlua."
' PARIS. April (iennnn
war planes raided ttn I'm uiIi coast
town ot Dunklili this moinint;, diop
ping six bombs. line un.ii.ui .ia
klllad nnd three men oiiixli-.l. Tho
WtfOfflce announced that only alight
Uxnjn im dqiw
E
I
SHIP'S BEST CABIN
'Stonemason's Wife Y;.j Placed
in De Luxe Suite on Hoard
the Stockholm.
David HJorkman of No. 1639 Hallon
Strent, Chlcaso, will be mighty proud
of his storm-born baby when he hears
that she and her mother occupied the
cabin cle luxe of tho Swedish-American
liner .Stockholm
Tim mother biKan the vojano it
CJotlu nberK, len, in tho steeraRo
of the .ship, expeetliiK to Ret homo to
her husband before the expected ar
rival mado Ha appearance. Hut tho
ship was held up by tho Hrltlsh for
three days nt Kirkwall and the next
day tho storm came and then the
baby.
Mrs. liertha HJorkman had a com
fortablo room In tho third cabin of
tho ship, but when a stewardess, who
Is alw n trained nurse, told Pr.
1'inlicr l.inibknK, the ship .sur;con,
that on Incream lu tho pimsenBer
list was nlmo.st immediately Inevit
able, It was decided thnt tho occasion
required that something handsome ne
done.
So. dipt. Ilakansoii was consulted
and It was decided to take the ex
pectant mother up to tho cabin do
luxe on tiie Miloon deck.
There fin forty flrVst cabin pas
sengers on board mid about six hun
dred others on tho Stockholm and
word was passed amour them that
luxury was belni; kIvi u to the e.
poot.int in-rival. At the dinner hour
on I'lilm Sunila, A pi ll Pi, )r.
l.lndsliog was summoned ait.iiu.
When h" leached the cabin de ln n
baby slrl had already nrrhed.
Un tin- Stockholm were seen nl.
tors of Swedlhli in-w su.iper.s in the
l.'nitcd Sl.iti s who h.ie becji ii
, ,i ulolb'iin six ueel1 trip U Swdi-T
viHltinu Hie KlIlB and belli;; .'iu--.l
inl uinid by their mmii.un,,', in
llmir i.itie i-liind. They 1 r I-I4-. J nub
' si'i'ipllon fu,- the new baby, nnd '.'n'l.
, llnkans.iii bd oil' with ami t.io'mi
(wliliii is nearly a liundii-J lo;lni
in the ll.iliir of tin tun ' i ..n - u
li.ibv I l.i il llollulid. MloRe i "
kronin w,i I'ai.ud and pitaMitvd v
the uother,
POOR BABY CAM
IN STORm AND GO
CAVALRY RUSHED
INTO MOUNTAINS
ON VILLA'S TRAIL
Report Locating Bandit South
west of Salevo and West
of Parral Credited.
VIATORS
TO ASSIST.
Hope for Outlaw's Capture
Renewed Funston Will Go
to Meet Obregon.
C'OM'.MUrS, X. M., April 23. A
filial dath after Villa was reported to
day to have been started by an Amer
ican detachment, while the main ex
peditionary forces were beinu con
continted at Xamiquipa and Colonlu
Diiblan.
A column of cavalty was said to be
driving swiftly toward Villa's last
reported hiding place In the Chlhua.
hua Sierras, near Nnnoava. So de
tails of tho movement were obtainable
here.
Two new aeroplanes underpolnB
their fini.l tests at the local camp
were expected to join the chaie.
I'onsul I-rf'tcher nt Chihuahua City
has sent despat-hes "reliably" locat
Inc the bandit chieftain sixty miles
southwest of Satcvo and west ot
Piural. This tits tho situation of
Nononva. where other reports have
located Villa.
Army of fleets, with hopo for tho
bandit's captuto renewed, pointed out
.hat it these reports prove true, Villa
has stopped his dash southward to
ward Durango and Is doubling on his
tracks sliKhtly northward and west
ward toward tho mountainous region
botween the State of Chihuahua nnd
Sonora.
Army officers also explained that
If Villa has turned In tho direction In
dicated it will work directly Into tho
plans for a shortening ot tho Ameri
can lino of communication, since the
most advanced columns can turn
back northward in their pursuit.
It was Indicated that practically the
same lluo of communication will be
maintained, but that tho lino will bo
shortened.
FUNSTON AND SCOTT
BOTH WILL CONFER
WITH GEN. OBREGON.
SAX ANTONIO, Tex., April :..
Otn. Funston will accompany CJen.
Hugh I.. Scott to the conference with
(!en. Alvaro Obregon, C'arratua Min
ister of War, nt Kl 'af,o or .luarez.
It was announced at Department
Headquarters to-day.
AsMirances that the de facto Gov
ernment Is prepared to cope wltn
Villa bands In Northern Chihuahua
are expected to be made by (Jen.
Obiegou at the conference. Ilo will
reveal his plans tor policing the coun
tr;. . Should they be deemed adequate
by Ren. Seott, who will report to
Washington, the dc facto liovcrnmem
will renew Its requ it that American
troops bo wltlidrnwn from Mexico.
The general belief, however, is that
Scott will deolan: the Am'.rlcan troops
must i emain until Villa Is dead or
dipt in I'd.
Tho conference is llkolj to begin
Thursdiij or l-'rlla.
That sevf'i.il wiek-i t lcut will
elapse belorn Ml' Hoops all. vsith-
IL'ontiuued on Kourtli I'.iro.)
.- .- .
l.llmiitl's I illilli'tiull stum!,
Al.H.N. A pi H Tim
I .lie in i "nwi'.ing Urn ii n . Oib-uij
it viand Ini'-em f n uinerting tne
1 tln.Duo csfit' of Mi liwsi'ii.'i Men.
. ...I. Sir.il.', lor wn . death he was
..iu' trad "il a mill fli.'iipe, in,.
ll ll Igl i-.illi l 'I'll Mil'.', ,.
iitia b Ult l.uuil ul XpptMib todi.
O'Connell Street, Dublin; General
Post Office Seized by the Rebels
S.. i.t.i i lJ. J.;.;. J..,-.J. J.jJ, .i,., j
. 1 .r.
The building en the left to which the arrow points it the aentral poit office. The itatue in the fore
ground ia that of Daniel O'Connell, affectionately known in Ireland at "The Liberator." The monument back
of it it a column erected In honor of Lord Nelson, the great EngJitH Admiral.
PRESIDENT AT PRINCETON;
VOTES IN THE PRIMARY
Mrs. Wilson Makes Trip Wan
Him Many Women Om to
Greet Them.
PRINCETON, N. J., April 15.
President Wilson arrived at Prince
ton early this nt ternoon, went din ct
to tho polls and vote I for the dele
gates who will support him In the
National Convention nt St Louis.
Tho President was met at the sta
tion by :i company of the New ,Ierse
National (iuanl. Secret servlco men
also accompanied him an lie made his
way through town with .lnv. I'lehler.
A large crowd, Including many
women, braved the raw day to greet
the President anil Mr- Wilson. This
was Mrs. Wilson's llrsi trip lo Prince
ton hIiuc nor marriage. Sho did not
leave tlm private, car with tin- Piesl
dent, but later motoied uptown.
After voting tlm President planted
a treo on tho border of the Lincoln
Highwn.i flov. Kielder planted one
in honor of Pi-e.-ddi nl Wilson.
Speak' is leieniid to Lincoln and WIN
Min as tin. "two bit: den be.uers of tho
nation."
I FACES 45-YEAR TERM.
I I outlet Im I ; fi -! I'roni liilmrii
luimlit atiil seof Hack,
lohn l.-rov li.ivKm imnty-lhr veiu
old. who p"d 1 1 'im Auburn Pinl-
ti ilium en M'iri Ii ..I ii. (I wn- i. i ip.
tui'id ben- Im'1 I-'iIin. .i it 1 1 ii igiit'i)
I i.l ... . Jidli I'riiiu In 'iirieirtl !!., n,
io-iny on no imlletmeiii ilmrK.ng viola
lion of tin- Milliiriii Liw. utter enmli.
linn nl ii i linn-. The pel. nil' for ln
offi i.- ... em Ii ' I i. Hi lonrteen jr,i.
I.. i kin .if bi'Hiiinini; ii tliiiM-
. i. t. ii i 1 1 im iiigtiwii' inbliiiv
Wll'll In . . p. M li .la. .Li.. b.k lu
Aubaru.
HURRY-UP NOTE BERLIN
CONSIDERED 1 WASHINGTON
Wilson Not in Favor of Long Delay in Making
Reply Warning Given of
Over-Confidence.
WASHINGTON, April 25. Indica
tions arc that Ambassador (lerard
will bo asked to ixpedltn Germain's
reply, If It Is not forthcoming soon.
This intimation Is given out by
high authority lu connection with u
warning against overconfldence m the
oiitcomu of the ponding; negotiations.
Hope of a f.uorable .o ttlenmnt lias
been tempered somewhat by official
word that Germany faces n very dlf
llcult task of convincing ItH own peo
ple of the Justice of tlm President's
demands.
There is no question the Govern-
iiwnt of Germany wishes to avoid n
break, if German editorial loiuilieiit
I u huh lias bien given President WIN
j son is tin Indication, otllrlal d
Ispaleh'S on the other .and suggest
! Unit lb' Mlllllcnilcf.S lllHt foile of tll'i
Pieiiiik-iit's note has brought the Im
penal Government favc to l.u n with
the lieci HMl ut quick lirllon nt It time
wlun it nppuam dlillcult to cgnvlueu
the Geiman people of its necessity.
It Ii ocliiiM'il th.s eounttv may
l.n in the norm in position within a
v 'ion nun. prooaoU- io-nigtit
ur lo-wurrow. Wlna U Vraaidaui
left to-day Mr Pl'liiieton to vote, ho
"quested that any news of linpor
laiicn rectiv-Ml liming tho day from
iXinlussinlor Geiard bo forwardud to
ti i in at once
The Piesldeiii l.s familiar with the
dilflcultle.s facing tlm German Go
eitiiiieiit, but he feels that this coun
try has done Its part and thorn will
bo no relaxation lu the purpose to
stop I'-boat watf.uo pending adup.
Hon of methods moetlng Amerlcri
approval.
1 1 has been reported if oclal cir
cles that German olliclals hnvo as
Mired Ambassador Gerurd Unit Gur
inaiiy l.s ti-ady to make toneesslons.
Whuthir or not such assurances will
bo nccoptiiblii t i tlio I jilted states
can only be '1' li i iiiliii'd aftt'i' Ger
many has hailed Imi present sub.
lil.-ii-liii campaign .luring a t'cadjliM
iiieiit. Il is now si'iiii'ulli lie. ti, woid
already Inns gone mn lo siiliuuiriiia
couiinaiiilers r.ii' a i'uipoiiir cessa
tion of activity against lonimurcti
i ii k wuui.li iii.wt.i. iiriic.wj
c ti: I'u.air W r. li llui..ui.',
ii iu l'r i;.. . eii.
1 1 &r. r.M'ridt. li.. .in l i.h til (I,-.
tri'i'l l i'm l i" o 4 1 4ii I it i Vtiifr.'iii
Itrlm.ilii Mint UtJUiv 4I..I iti el iu..k rvom
virtu dir 4!! uiiljl I'unll.rt' ui. tail wour
BtdtCt IM Uit, I.ll(V9a UmJuu iOuQ.jUllt,
17 KILLED IN FIRST CLASH
OF SOLDIERS AND REBELS
ON THE STREETS OF DUBLIN
Post Office Seized, but Is Recaptured
by Trodps Revolution Planned
to Begin as Casement, Aided by
Germans, Landed Arms.
SECOND UPRISING AFTER
THE FIRST IS QUELLED
i-
LONDON i April 25. A revolution In ireland, planned by
the German Government, brought aboiit a terrific riot in
Dublin yesterday in which twelve cltlietu were killed by
British soldiers and four or five soldleen were killed by the
rioters.
Mr. Rirrell, Chief Secretary for Ireland, made the an
nouncement to-day in the House of Commons..
Air. Uirrell admitted that the revolutionists had control
of four or five sections of Dublin and that telegraph and
cable communication had been extromcly difficult. No
' information has reached London from Dublin to-day as far
as the public knows.
l-'rom the best information obtainable it appears that the rioting pre
vailed tor twenty-tour hours or more. Hundreds must have been injured.
Mr. Uirrell's scant information Indicates that there were two distinct out
i breaks, each attended by great violence and considerable loss of life,
j Whether there has been rintiiij,' in other parts of Ireland Mr. Dirrtt
'did not si. Hut there is no doubt that the Dublin riot was part of a
I carefully thought out plan to plunge Ireland into a revolution in connec
tion with the arrival in Ireland of a German expedition bearing arms and
ammunition under the leadership of Sir Roger Casement.
NEWS ABOUT CASEMENT HELD BACK.
' The tact that Sir Roger's expedition was headed off by British war
ships, that he was captured and that his ship was sunk at a point off the
Irish coast did not become public until to-day. It was not known in
Ireland until this morning that the Cateinent attempt to invade the coun
try had proved abortive.
In Ignorance of the failure of the German attempt to land troops
and arms and munitions by sea the conspirators evidently went ahead
. with their plans in Dublin. The) counted on Sir Roger sweeping through
, the country, gathering up revolutionists ..ud arming them as he went.
It Ih known that tho Dublin revolutionists assembled so quietly and
I quickly thnt the constabulary and tint normal military cstnblMunent worn
I taken by surprise. Imtm dlutcly .ifti r organizing tho revolutionists stezed
the Dublin Post Office, which Is tlm centre, of telegraph and communication
1 throughout Ireland mid cable communication with Englnnd.
(.'tiblo coinmuitlcatlon was at onro suspended. Telegraph wires were
, coiiimiindeori'd for tho uso of the revolntIonIts and toV a ttuie they appeared
i to have ciitlro control of thu sltuattou. It Is bellfivVd, from Information
coming from other than official sources, that tlm revolutionists attempted
to slezc Dublin Castlo. Urggur's Iluah Uarracks probably at tho time prac
tically emptied of troops and othur
I'ndotibtcdly the levolutlonlsts woro !
in complete control of thu situation for
u time The local authorities were
compelkil to send for In lp to the Cur
rairh of Klldiire. wheie there Is an
liniii' use niilii.it camp supposed to be
I compose. I of about W.uou soldi, rs,
(iriiiiunly tlm t'liiriigh Is a short
j journey from Dublin--a matter of n
i couple of hours. Soldiers were put (Hi
mi.i.iih and t-ent from the Curragh to
Diihlin to quell the rioting, but thu
priigriHs nf Hie train or trains was
I tii i-.'SHiirlly slow. It Is Ill-Unveil that
I I Im i i volu' loitlHi.i. anticipating this
j ironp movement took c.iro to disable
, thu railway lines
i In time the troops arrived, nd
i there was bloody lighting In many
parts ot Dublin, particularly In the
I wide iti etch of OVonnell Htrent, In
fiont of the post ulllcc, wheru the
iiuuij wero Kathoroil la force. Tae
public bulldlnirn.
first force to reach Dublin succeeded
In regaining tho post otlleu nnd driv
ing the mob from tho main part of
the city.
SECOND UPRISING FOLLOWS
QUELLING OF THE FIRST.
It would npix-ar that this furcn was
Insultl' lent to protscive order, for Mr.
Hlrrell In his statement to tho House
of Commons, said thut thero was a
second uprising, now far ttiU pro
gressed btfo.e It was subdued la not
known. Mr. Ulrroll admitted that thu
revolutionists were lu control of my
ereal sections of Dublin at 7 o'clock
last night. In view of Um fact Uutt
thin hour was the Uteat he mentloud
it was auumcd in th Houso ttuU be
had received no newi from DubU
to-day.
Mr. Hlrrell said thai rainy arrwrta
had been mad. He tu unable to
4
I
