Randolph One
Will Put You in Quick. Touch
With The T-D Want Ad Man
36th YEAR
VKLl'MK Ofl
M'MUr.U 115
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 1916.?TWELVE PAGES
PASjBr"KB ?CLOUDY
Dr. Brady's Talks
Don t Miss rhem?Something
Interesting Every Day
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
POWERFUL GERMAN |
INFLUENCES WORK
: TO AVERT BREAK;
Oppose Any Action Which
Might Lead to Severance
ol Relations With U. S.
SOCIALISTS AND LABOR
LEADERS USE INFLUENCE
Confidential Dispatches Received
by State Department From
Ambassador Gerard.
CONKKRB WITH CHANCKl
Von Iletlunnnii-Holhveg to Sep ISni
peror A pa In li<'fore Kcplylnii
to American Note.
WASHINGTON. April ? Indications
that powerful influences in German
politics are opposed to any action by
the Berlin government which might
lead to the severance of diplomatic re
lation? with t he United States are un
derstood to ho contained in confidential
dlspatche<5 received to-day hy the .State
Deps?rtmcnt from Ambassador Gerard.
Socialists and labor leader* are report
ed an being particularly adverse to any
such move.
r?ther dispatches from Mr. Gerard
were said to contain strong intimations
that the Berlin government would
make some concessions to the United
States in reply t" the note demanding
the immediate abandonment of present
methods of HHbmarine warfare. It 1*
still uncertain, however, whether the?e
will be sufficiently broad to meet the
American demand".
Officials allowed it to become known
that Ambassador Gerard's dispatcher
Indicated that Germany would bo to
great lengths to preserve friendly re
lations wllh the United States. Mr.
Gerard Is understood to have pained
his views during conversations with
Berlin officials., including Foreign Min
ister von Jagoiv.
K M I'll A S I'/.E DIFFICULTIES
C ON FltONT!Xti (iOVKIIN MK> T
H;s dispatches are suid to emphasize
the difficultIcm by which the German
government is confronted In endeavor
ing to meet the demands of the United
States without arousing: the element
which insists upon a relentless sub
marine v arfare apainst jjie shipping
of the entente allies.
The Slate Department \>ae awaiting
a dleplatch from Mr. Gerard reporting
the rt.-sults of a lengthy conference late
to-day with Dr. \ on Rethmann-Ifoll
iveg, Imperial German Chancellor. Press
dispatches announcing that the con
ference had taken place were closely
read. Officials ??xpressed a particularly
keen Interest in that part of the press
reports which Indicated that the reply
to the American note would not be
made, until after the Chancellor has
another opportunity to confer with the
Emperor, who is at the front. The fact
that the conference lasted more than
an hour was regarded ns being a hope
ful sign: It heinc pointed out that If
the German government was disposed
not to meet the American demands. It
was improbable there would have been
a discussion of such length. A report
front .Ambassador Gerard is expected
to-morrow.
All of the ambassador's dispatcher
received since the present crisis h-gati
arii held by high officials to be of
highly . onfidentlal nature. Conse
quently. only meager details of the
contents are available.
CKRAfin CALLED TO PALACR
OP IMPERIAL ClIA.YCELLOn
BKHLIX. April 24 (via London).?
The American ambassador was called
by telephone to the Imperial Chancel
lor's palace this inorninn. He went
Immediately, and the conference with
Dr. von Bet hmann-Holhveg lasted an
hour and ten minutes.
When he came from the conference
Ambassador Gerard declined to give
any information as to the nature of the
discussion, and would not answer a
question as to whether any one else
was present.
Or. \ on nethmann-ilollweg devoted
the afternoon conferences on the sub
marine question with Admiral von Halt
zendorff, chief of the admiralty staff.
(Continued on Second rage.)
j Sir Roger Casement
Is British Prisoner
??- ...
Captured From German Ship ;
Which Attempts to Land
Arms in Ireland.
LONDON, April 24.?S!r Roger Case
; ment hasi been captured from a German
ehip whith attempted to !:? n?J arms in j
I Ireland ami was sunk. This official
announcement was made to-night as
! follows:
"During tho period between the. af-j
tcrnoon of April 20 ami the afternoon
of April 21, nrt attempt to land arms)
ami ainm'inition In Ireland w.?s made
; by a vessel tiuder Hie gulae of a non
j tral merchant ship, but which in reality
i was a German auxiliary in connection I
with <4. German submarine.
'"I he auxiliary sattlt and several prls- j
oners .made,, among whom was Sir
j Roger Casement."
Sir Roger Casement, before the out- !
! break of the European war was in the j
Rritish consular service, having held
positions In Portuguese West Africa
Mi- i'ohko Free State. Haiti. San Do
i mingo ami Uia/.il.
In November, iriM, it was reported
that Sir r:ouer. who was the leader of
?lie separatist faction in Ireland, had
gone to Berlin and conferred with the
German imperial authorities, his inten
tion. it was said, being to open ne- -
j gotiations between the German govern-i
inent and the antially element in Ire
land.
Assurances wre Riven to Sir Roger
that should German troops land in
, Ireland nil native institutions would |
rally t<> their aid. The report*of his
: activities In Germany created a sen
j sat Ion in England, and in February.;
J 1!*1.>, Sir Edward Grey announced in
I the House of Commons that Sir Roger's
pension as a member of the consular
corps had f??n suspended, pending an
investigation of charges of disloyalty
j against him.
Sir Roper was created a knight in
lf?M. He fifty.two years old
I? was Sir Ropers who. in
j while consul-ceneral at Rln Janeiro!)
made a report on the torturing and
I hilling of natives ->f Brazil l)v em
ployees of the British company" oper
ating the Putumayo rubber fields. As
a result of his report, a Firitlch rovjil !
commission headed by him investigated
tiie situation and brought about the
reforms in the treatment of men em
; ployed in the Industry
NOT TO CUT WORKING HOURS j
Si?vrnfy-S|z Metal Manufacturing Com.
pnnlc* In IMltnliurRli Dlnirlet U>nr
Slipned Stntrmcnt.
PITTSBURGH. April 24.?Seventy.?lx
: metal manufacturing companies whose
plants are located in Pittsburgh and
the. surrounding boroughs announced i
' through a signed statement to-dav that.
| "after due consldetation," they would
not reduce the working hours in their
respective shops
I he companies, said to employ a total I
of almost 10'.000 men. considered the
? eight-hour question at a series of meet- ,
ing.< held last week after tho employees:
j of a number of shops had demanded
an eight-hour day and it had hecome
j known that other demands were in
: preparation.
? Included in the list are the Westing-!
, house Electric and Manufacturing Com-i
pany, where approximately 13.000 men
are already on strike, and the Union
.Switch and Signal Company, the West-:
inghouse. Machine and the Westlng
. house Air Prako Company, whoro ef
forts are being made by tho electrical |
strikers to bring out the men.
JURY TO TRY MRS. ROGERS
Its Selection nnrt Presentation of State'* :
r??e Completed In I,r?M Than
I-'OTir FTonrn.
NEW YORK, April 24.?The selection
; of a jury and the presentation of tho
l State s case against Mra. Ida Sniffen
Walters Rogers, on trial here for the
j murder of her two children on De
| cember 20, 1I?14. were completed in less
than four hours to-day, after which1
former Meutenant-Governor Chanler, i
representing the accused woman, an-i
I nounced that insanity would be the;
; main contention of the defense.
Several witnesses, most of them;
I neighbors of airs. Rogers, described her !
great love for her children, and told j
' of alleged Irrational acts of the woman,
j Mr. Chanler announced he would call
a prominent alienist as a witness-for,
, Mrs. Rogers on to-morrow, and intl-'
mated that the case probably would go!
I to the Jury on to-morrow.
Buy-Right Hints for
the Thrifty Housewife
There is not a city in the
country its size, nor many even
larger, that can boast of better,
bigger or more beautiful drug
stores.
They are live-wire institu
tions. these drug scores, anrl
their splendid stocks embrace
every drug and toilet article
the farthest limitations of the
catalog includes.
The modern drug store has
long since transcended the
orthodoxy of the old-time
"apothecary shop," that looked
dismal, and doled out drugs in
a dismal way; for the more
progressive and pretentious are
regular department stores
now-a-days. that not onlv han
Richmond is Pre-eminent
As a Drug Store Center
die the great miscellany of
drugs #ind advertised remedies,
but carry extensive affiliated
lines. There is probably no
business of any kind that car
ries a larger variety of articles
than the modern drug store.
The advertising of these mod
ern drug stores in The Times
Dispatch is the greatest econ
omy news now going the
rounds. You should never
think of buying drugs or toilet
articles, or a thousand and one
other things they sell, without
first "spying" out their store
news in The Times-Dispatch,
thereby saving a tidy sum in
the purchases you wish to
make.
NOTT" Tl'f Tlmt(i-!)Hpa<fh sunrantees n njHrki't] Mv<ng on rxrr-r pnrrhm
made 1a Richmond store* that a<lvcx<U?e their lowest yrlccs lu these yajjes.
BANKS CONFESSES
STARTING OF FIRES
Negro Admits- Setting Fifteen
Buildings to Burning to
Sec Apparatus.
CAUSED $80,000 IN DAMAGES
Telephones False Alarm When
Pile of Waste He Had Ig
nited Goes Out.
Confessing to having started fifteen
fires in Richmond since April T. 1011
flairrarions which i? is estimated con
servatively ?li<1 at least JPO.OOf* dam
iikc and which it cost the city In tho
neighborhood of ?2,nno to extinguish,
Howard Banks, alias I'crcy Christian,
an eighteen-year-old neeru arrested by
Major Werner and Policeman Warriner
Sunday night while in the act of pre
paring to start a lire in the rear of
the Virginia. Hondo,| Warehouse, is be
tnir held by the police on fifteen charges
of arson for arraignment in the Police
f'nur! to-day.
flanks was takerr into the Po|ic?
Court vrslerday as a suspicious char
acter suspected of attempting to lire
the vacant building behind thp ware
house, and his case was continued un
til Saturday Major Werner, Detective
Serceant Atkinson. Detective Gordon
Smith and Policeman Warriner took the
netrro to headquarters soon after he
had beer, released from court .and. after
several hours of close questioning,
wrung the confession from him.
Once the officers had succeeded in
started Hanks to talking. he recounted
enthusiastically and graphically how
he had started th? fires so that he could
???<? the apparatus dash through the
streets and the excitement at the
scenes of the conflagrations. With his
thick Hps cracked in a hideous grin
and his large staring eyes shining
brightly. Hanks informed the officers
that he had been arrested too soon to
allow him to fire the nuilding in the
rear of the warehouse, but that he had
had one good time watching the en
gines and the flames at the other flres.
M? AI.AIIM IX THIIITl HULKS
rOl.l.OWTXi AltllKST OK XKtiltO
-\t i'lre Headquarters early this
morning it was pointed out that not a
*inglc alarm had been sounded during
the thirty hours which had elapsed
since the arrest of Banks.
Shortly after he had been taken back
to the City Jail from the Police Court
yesterday, Banks was Interviewed by
Major Werner, the detectives and Po
liceman Warriner. After some time
had elapsed, the officers succeeded In
starting the negro to talking, and Cap
tain Pollock was summoned to make a
stenographic record of his confession.
Concisely, but with due regard to de
tail, Ranks told how he had fired any i
number of buildings, and offered to '
take the offierrs to the various loca
lions, as he did not know the names of1
the street?.
Major "Werner's car was ordered, and
the officers started on the trip with
Banks. The negro directed the chauf
feur over a route which it required
more than an hour to pass. At each
place the car was stopped, and Banks
told the officers how he had entered
the building and how he had gathered
paper under a flight of steps or in an
alcove and lighted the pile. He related
how he had beat a hasty retreat to the
street and awaited the sounding of the
alarm and the arrival of the. fire en- |
glnes.
XO HKSriMTlOX AS TO
I.OCATIOX or I IHKS
Not once during the trip did Banks
hesitate as to locations. He calmly
told the chauffeur to turn a corner
hero or to co up that street a couple
of blocks and, even before the exact
house was rcached. was able to desig
nate which of the buildings he had
crept Into and fired.
While all of the flres had been
thought to have been located in the!
First District. Banks pointed out two
places in the Second District which he
had set tire to. However, in neither
of those cases did the pile of debris i
he had collected ignite anything else '
and burned themselves out without!
starting a conflagration.
Banks expressed disappointment at
the results of his efforts while he was
recounting these details. In another)
Instance he started a flro at Second and;
Byrd Streets, and when this died out
without the engines responding Ranks
tvent to a telephone and phoned n !
false alarm. The apparatus responded'
to this false alarm, and the negro;
stood on the cofner and laughed glee '
fully as the engines flashed by him. \
He expressed disappointment also in
the results of his efforts at,the house
in the rear of Nos. 0 and 11 North
Fourth Street, -where he said the Fire
Department arrived too quickly and
prevontcd him seeing much fire.
HXJOVKI) KICKING HXGI.VKS
HASH TO nntss!
Banks said that in each of his other
attempts at arson he was successful, |
and that he enjoyed hugely standing!
on a near-by corner and watching the]
arrival of the engines and ladder:
trucks and the efforts of the firemen:
to extinguish the blaze. He was able i
lo recognize a woman who 'saw him i
leaving one of the houses he flred nnd
pointed her out. to the officers yester- !
day. although -she was unable, to state'
positively that he was the negro she'
had seen. Ho told also how he had!
seen several of the detectives, whom he j
faced yesterday at the flres, but that ho;
did not know them then.
Tho most serious fire of which Banka
was the cause was that at Twelfth and
Main Streets Sunday afternoon, when1
damage to the extent of $15,000 was!
done to the building formerly occupied
hy W. H. Adams. 11.13 North Twelfth
Streets and daniago ostimated at $40,000
was done to the stock of Frank Miller.
1202 Hast Main Street. The building
occupied hy Miller is owned by tho
(Continued oii aecon(O/ag o;,)
SCOTT PLANS TO DISCUSS
SITUATION WITH OBREGON
Mexican and American Officers Confer
Consultation at brigade headquarters, Casas Grande, between American chief of staff and officers of the Car
ran7.a forces. Seated in the foreground, Lieutenant-Colouel Trefigo Davila, chief of arms at Casas Graude garrison
of the Carranza forces; Colonel Cabell, chief of staff at Casas Grande, and Lieutenant Ijeopoldo Coronado, aide
to Davila. These two Mexican officers visited the camp to consult with the chief of staff on plans for capturing
Villa.
NUBS NOT TO DIRECT
NEXT WILSON CAMPAIGN
Chairman of Democratic National
Committee Will Retire After
St Ixmis Convention.
fcORMS XKW liAW PARTNERSHIP
President Writes Appreciative letter
i of Regrets?l-Ved H. Lynch, of
j Minnesota, Expected to lie Chosen
as Successor.
WASHINGTON*, April 24 ? Willtajn F.
McCombs. chairman of the Democrat to
! National Committee, to-day notified
President Wilson that he will be un
able to continue in his present position
after the national convention nnd will
be unable to direct the campaign of Mr.
"Wilson for re-election.
Replying to Mr. McCombs's letter, the
1'resldent expressed regret. Fred B.
l.ynch. National Committeeman from J
\ Minnesota, is expected to succeed Mr. j
MH'ombs and conduct the campaign. I
NEW I,AW I'A ItTXICItSHI!'
rOHCUS HIS ItRTIIlK.MKVT |
Mr. Mci'ombs wrote this letter to the 1
1 "resident:
??I have just formed a new partner- j
ship for the practice of law, which will ?
become effective on the iirst of May.
The eh a UK" will necessitate my clevot
inj; substantially all my time to my !
profession. My political activities must |
be largely curtailed. My arrangement,
however, will justify my proceeding
through to the end of the convention at
St. l.ouls.
"In view of the party precedent that
the nominee for President is requested
to indicate his preference for the chair- |
uianship of the National Committee, j
and in view of the unity of sentiment i
for your renomination, 1 am writing ,
you at the earliest moment to let you !
know that I could not under any cir- !
rurastances assume the leadership of |
the coming Democratic campaign. I |
ain happy in the thought, however, that
there are hosts of able and true men
who can very readily take my place.
"The Doniocraths organization t? i
loyal to your policies and purposes We
all feel assured of a triumphant result j
for you and for the party nominees
throughout the country in November.
"For live years now 1 have been in
the activo service of the party, and It
Is with a keen feeling of regret that i
1 am forced to conclude that my activi- I
lies are of necessity to ho more limited. I
If within the limit of my time I can ho j
of assistance, he assured that 1 am .il- i
ways available."
The. President ropliert as followi; j
"1 have your letter of April 20 ap
prising me of jour Inability to retain
the chairmanship of the Democratic
National Committee for the approach
ing campaign.
"1 fully appreciate the necessity you
feel yourself to he under to lesion afti-r (
the convention shall have beoTulield in
Juiia; I know that you would not
havo reached such a decision had not
votir now business obligations made It
unnvoldnblc. I do not feel at liberty, j
(ConB"nuca~on-Third Page.) j
i V.W?f. A ' V ?'
1 W -i'i . v.'.
ONLY ARTILLERY ACTIVE '
IN FRANCE AND BELGIUM i
Le Mort Homme Region and Argonne !
Forest Scenes of Fiercest
Bombardments.
AI It ATTACK MADK ON THIKSTI3 j
.Nine Civilians Killed and Five!
Wounded in ltaid on Sunday, j
British Continue Forward Move
in German West Africa.
Incendiary Bomb:
Dropped by Zeppelins j
LONDON, April 24.?Three Zeppe
lins TiMltrd the ruNtrrn counties on
lost nlK-ht, dropping Incendiary
h omits, according to the official nn
uouneenient.
"The condition* Wfrp Ideal for the
Zeppelin raiiler*. Tlie night ?vni?
tlurk uud nlniONphfrr clenr. Tlirrf |
unK n light southwest wind, which
luiU Rrnrrnlly Item roniildrrril un- ;
favorable fnr Zi'pprllu*, hut It wax
little miirf tliun a mild liree/V, und
nnj threat of tt storm uhli'h l(
?nighI ordinarily have pretmeed wns
lesKcned l?y tlie barometers.
"Tlie raldem appeared a lion t the
customary hour, find seemed a little
tuieertalu an to their loeatlon, as the
rarly reports showed tlint only In
cendiary liomlis urre heliiK drop
ped."
Artillery bombardments alone are!
taking' place on the French and Bel
gian fronts, the scenes of the greatest
activity being the region of I.e Mort
Homme ami in the Argonne forest, with
the Germans the aggressors iu the for
mer and the Frtnch in the latter sec
tor.
French aviators in squadron forma
tion have oropped large numbers of
shells on German positions at bonguyon
and Montfaucoii. The fighting he- !
twetn the. Germans and the Russians j
and the Austrian* along the Isuir/.o 1
fronl continues at various points.
Vicuna reports an attack on Faster !
Sunday by seven ltalia/i aeroplanes on
the city of Trieste, In which nine
civilians, five of them children, were
killed anrl five wounded. The report
says that because of this attack "the
enemy forfeited every right to have his
towns spared."
The. British in German West Africa
are continuing their forward move
against the Germans. Considerable
casualties were inflicted on the Ger
mans.
Tho British also have been successful
in an operation near Duidar, Rgypt,
repulsing with heavy casualties a Turk
ish attack. In an engagement near
Quita village, however, the British
wero forced to retreat after an engage
ment with a Turkish column of supe
rior numbers. The town of Kanuayat
(ConUmsotTon tfcooud l\igo.)
OFFICE OF VON IGEL NOT
GERMAN EMBASSY BRANCH
He Swore Before Xotary That. Rooms
Were to Tie Used by Htm as
Advertising Agent.
KKAL KSTATK AtJKXT TKSTIP1KS I
Assistant Attorney Wood Confident '
That Art-used Man Will Have to
Stand Trial, and That Seized
Papers Will Not He Returned.
XKW TOPIC. April 24.?Evidence pre
sented here to-day before the Federal
grand jury investigating tho alleged
plot to destroy the Wolland Cana}. es
tablished. according to Federal authori
ties, that Captain Franz von Papen's
former office, at fiO Wall Street, was not
a branch of the German embassy when
Wolf von Itfol was arrested there on
April IS, and papers claimed by the
German embassy seized.
The papers wore sent to the Depart
ment of Justice in Washington at the
request of the State Department, after
Ambassador Hernstorff's demand for
their return on the ground that they ;
were seized on German territory. The I
State Department announced that the '
return of the papers rested on this:
point.
Assistant United States Attorney j
Wood, in charge of the prosecution, is !
understood to bo confident that, as a I
result of to-day's testimony, Von Igel
will have to stand trial, anil that the ?
papers will not bo returned, ills be- ,
lief is based, it was learned, on' the j
story tohl the ?rand jurors by Arthur;
A. llassell, of Plnintleld, X. .1., employed i
by a real estate firm as the an en l fori
(SO Wall Street.
AS "AI>Vi;HTISl\CS AtfKN'T"
AND FOll NO OTIUOH PI'.IM'OSK j
Ifassell. it was said, identified thej
leases for Von Pnpen's office. On the!
lease, dated Juno 24, 1015. to expire <<n |
May 1, next, at an annual rental of!
$2,300 was t he signature of Wolf von I
lirel as lessee. Swearlnn before .i !
notary public. Von 1 vce 1 stated in the |
document that tin- rooms are to be
used by him a.s an "advertising accent |
and for no other purpose." <
Von If?el's own juvorn statement, j
Federal officers here assert, denies tho I
claim of the German ambassador that
Von Igel was a member of bis staff,
and that the rooms wore a part of tho i
German embassy. The information re-?
gardinK the lease, it was said, already
is in the possession of tho Statr De- I
partment.
O. F. Hummel, of Chicago, connected
with the "Friends of Peace" and the
"Teutonic Sous of America," and Henri
Rogowski, a New York printer, also
appeared before the grand iury to-day.
They testified, It was reported, regnrd
inpc certain activities of leaders of I
l.abor's National Peace Council, who
are charged with promotliiR strikes in
munition plants.
Apents of the Department of Justice
(Continued oil Third rage.)
CARRANZA AGREES
10 CONFERENCE
WITHU10FFICER
Other Developments Await
Outcome of This Per
sonal Discussion.
DE FACTO HEAD WANTS
EARLY REPLY FROM U. S.
Lansing Anxious for Advisers of
Two Governments to Confer
Before Sending Answer.
EACH TO EXPLAIN ATTITUDE
Funstou Kemljustinp: His Line, So a.s
In Make Position Serine for
Stay of Any Leugth.
WASHINGTON, April 21? Further
development a in the pursuit of \ Ilia
anil the relations between the Lnlteu
States and the de facto government of
Mcxleo now await personal discussion
of these subjects by the senior military
advisers of the two governments.
A conference between Major-General
Pcot.. chief of stuff, and General Obre
Minister of War of the de facto
government, was arranged late to-day
to take place probably in Juaress. C!en
eral Scott is now in San Antonio, Texas,
and General Obregon is thoucht to bo
already on his way north from Mex
ico City. They may meet to-morrow or
next day.
Announcement that General Carranza
bad agreed to the conference was made
by Rllseo Arredondo, Mexican ambas
sador-designate, who paid a visit to
Secretary Lansing to-day to communi
cate the fact. Secretary Baker was
promptly informed, and the informa
tion transmitted to General Sc.ott.
Mr. Arredondo visited the State De
partment first to ask the State Depart
ment for ?!) far!;.* reply to the dc facto
government's note of April 12 in regard
to the withdrawal or American troops
In Mexico. At tlint time Mr. Arredondo
could only say that negotiations for
the conference between the two gen
erals were in progress in Mexico, and
he was hopeful that It could be ar
ranged. Secretary Lansing Is under
stood to have made it plain that the
Washington government was anxious
that General Scott talk the situation
over with General Obregon before a
formal answer was prepared. On his
return to the embassy. Mr. Arredondo
found a message announcing that Gen
eral Obregon would go to the bonier.
Tt was said that while no word had
come that Genernl Obregon was on his
way to the border, there was reason to
believe he had leTt Mexico City,
PI,AN FAVOHBI* IIOTIf 111
WAll AM) STATK OKKICIAI?S
The mooting was suggested first after
General Scott had started to the border
on his mission which resulted in the
authorization for the redispositlon of
tho American troops In Mexico. The
plan was favored by both War and
State Department ofllcials, and Special
Agent Rodsers was asked to present it
to General Carranza. Because of tho
latter'a alleged jealousy of his War
Minister, some officers doubted that tho
conference could be arranged. The
subject apparently provoked consid
erable discussion In Mexico City bo
foro it was decided that General Obre
gon should go to the border.
General Scott has an enviable and
unusual record for conducting friendly
negotiations. The arrangements of a
neutral zone at Naco, Sonora. during
fighting between Carranza and Villa
troops, a later conference with Villa,
which resulted in the release of Amer
ican good* detained by him and the
(inciting of an uprising of Piute In
dians in L'tah are recent examples of
Ids skill as a diplomat, lie is known
to have believed that ai greater degree
of co-operation could be secured from
the Carranza forces If a personal con
ference with any of tho leading com
manders could be arranged.
General Scott will he able to present
to General Obregon the reasons behind
every move that has been made and
give him personal assurances that
President Wilson and his advisers
have no thought of doing anything
more than protect American Interests
along lite border from Mexican bandit
operations. In return it is expected
General Obregon will be able to throw
much light (?n tho problems that face
the de facto government.
Pending the forthcoming conference
General Funstou will carry out his
plans for readjusting his lines in
Mexico so as to make the position of
his troops secure for a stay of any
length. Secretary Baker reiterated to
day that General Funston lias full dis
cretion. and the department here may
not be Informed as to Ju;t what points*
?oic chosen for assembling the forces
until after the troop movements had
been ordered.
.HOST Ol-' A Ml.rtH A \ TltOOP.H
IN CAN AS ?.ltANl)i:S VICINITY
Most of the American troope aro
now in the vicinity of Casas Grandea,
10/> miles south of the border and 300
miles north of General Pershing's most
advanced column near Parral It Is re
ported that this camp is now located
at Adela, a small village not far from
Parral. Officers here would not he Bur
prised If the redisposition saw all then?
outlying commands brought northwar?l
to the Casas Grande;* region, where thoy
