THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
AN
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PIIOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, APRIL 25, 191G
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 341
GE11SH
AID NOTE
LACKS CUBITY
Mann's Monkeywrench
Thrown In Machinery
Headed Off Army Bill
DAY IN CONGRESS
WASHINGTON, April 24. Sen-
riw, Tl.n- V;,wl A T..n I ate: General debate began on
I ill. 11 1 ill A' lllVt VUl -1 1 1
ciselv What President
Wilson Wants Thev Will
Let Kim Know What They
Will Do
NO LIMITATIONS
ON SUBMARINES
Berlin Is Willing to Put
Former Pledges In Other
Language But Will Con
cede Nothing More to
Avoid a Break
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, April 24, 11 a. m. (Via
I-ondon, 10:28 p. m. delayed) The
outcome f the present crisis depends
on what lYesident Wilson and the
American government want. The
general view of the present situation
.is gleineil from conversation with a
number of persons close to official
circles 1.4 abo:it as follows:
' If President Wilson and the Amer
ican government are urguing that
earlier concessions by Germany have
not lieen adhered to and insist that
the submarine campaign be conducted
without deviation from within the
limits of G?:man assurances and
pledges in former notes, then a set
Dement probably can be arranged
notwithstanding what is considered
the "sharp and unfriendly tone-' of
the American note.
rural credits bill. I
Judiciary committee met but I
failed to vote on Brandeis nomina-
tion. I
j Committee meeting called for
Thursday to consider Japan's pro-
test to immigration bill provision.
House: Democratic leaders de- j
cii'ed to report a rule to send the j
army bill to conference over the
protests of Minority Leader Mann.
Discusion of agrieulaural appro-
priation bill was resumed.
Adjourned at G:f0 p. m. to noon
Tuesday.
House:
Ranking committee favorably
reported bill to create system of
land mortgage banks.
Republican Leader Mann again
prevented democratic leaders from
sending army hill to conference.
Naval sub-committe agreed on I
! draft of Naval appropriation bill
I carrying 217,0H0,Ou0.
Adjourned at 5:58 p. m. to 11 I
I a. m. Tuesday I
I
First Appearance
Of The Naval Bill
From Committee
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 24. A draft
of thp nnvnl nnnrnnHatinn hill 1Ytn
The Pledges I second Of ths n,lminilrli,m'a irnu.1
probably can bo re-stated, if need be, DreDarednM. mH!1,lrM .na n,irfert
and definitely formulated anew, so bv the snh-emmitt t,i...v tr. the
that there can be no possibility of er- houMe naval committee, which next
ror or question or respcnsimnty. Thursday will beein consideration of
u. nowever. ine Lnuea states, in- the construction section.
- - ..., ii i .... . . . ... I
" i"ri.ier mimauon oi uie suo- Present indications are that the
marine war cgainst commerce, then I proposed five year building program
there apears to be little chance of 1 will be approved, but that the first
agreement .or a satisfactory settle- year's allotment of new 5-hips will be
ment and it Is considered that a. increased from two dreadnaughts and
breach of diplomatic relations, if it two battle cruisers as proposed by
ioum come, would in all robability Secretary Daniels, to two dread
be. only a temjiorary status and Boon naughts and four battle cruisers.
would develop into an actual state The measure as submitted by the
or war. I appropriations sub-committee carries
This view Is not official or author- I a total of $217,652,174 for the coming
itative. but repiesents the opinion of 1 year on the basis of the secretary's
persons who are in a position to be 1 recommendation of four capital ships.
well informed. These persons care- I This is an increase of $70,000,000 over
fully refrainei from making definite I last year's figures. The subcommittee
ir authoritative predictions, and spec- I did not attempt to pass upon the
ified that they were stating only their building program, that task always
own opinions but these may possibly I being left to the full committee. If
be straws showing which way the j two more battle cruisers are added, it
wind is Mowing. I will increase the total appropriation
ine request or Dr. von Bethmann- aDout ;u,unu,uuy as the first years
Hollweg for a conference with m- I provision for these ships.
nassaaor lierard tonight is thought -lie suu-committee presented i
to have been Inspired by the desire of I memorandum summarizing the rec
the imperial chancellor to find out I ommendations of various naval offi
.vim I'resident Wilson's intentions cers who were examined upon the
actually are. 1 question of building. They also are
at variance with each other.
The bill framed by the sub-corn
mittee grants nearly all fortification
asked for by Secretary Daniels.
o
CRIME OF A BOY
Special Rule, Though, Will
Be Brought into tne
House Today Which Will
Let the Measure (Jo to
Conference
Republican A. P. Leased WlreJ
WASHINGTON, April 24. Aroused
by Minority Leader Manns success
on two occaslors today in keeping the
army bill as amended by the senate
from going to conference, the house
democratic leaders declared tonight
that without further deiay they would
force their legislative program
through with the aid of special rules.
A rule to discharge the military
committee from further consideration
of the army bill and to permit the
speaker to appoint house conferees
after a debate on one motion to re
commit will be reported by the rules
committee tomorrow. A majority of
the memhers of the committee will
suggest an hour's debate on the mo
tion but if this is not agreeable to
the republican minority, the debate
will be limited to twenty minutes on
each side.
Following the disposal of the agri
cultural appropriation measure the
democrats also decided today that the
Philippines, the Porto Ricon and the
shipping bills will be brought up for
:issage in the onler named.
This course was agreed upon de-
pite the protests of republicans that
some preparedness or appropriation
measures should receive immediate
consideration. Drastic rules to pro-
ide for limited 'debate will accom
pany nil of these three administration
measures with the view or Having
them enacted Into law before the con-
entions if possible, on the Philip
pine measure lor instance, n now i
T
FINDS GULLEY
FIHTU GUILTY
Orders His Dismissal from
the Service, But Govern
or Commutes It to An
Honorable Dijsqharge
ith Same Rank
Palavering To Resume
A Meeting At El Paso
On Withdrawal Question
Pending the Outcome of It
American Troops Being
Brought Back from the
Extreme South Will Be
"Redisposed"
New Conference With Kaiser
liKKLIN, April 24, 3 p. m. (Via
London) It Is understood that the
German reply to the American note
vill not be delivered before the im
perial chancellor has another oppor
tunity of conferring with the em
peror. Dr. von Betl.mann-Hollweg devoted
the afternoon to conferences on the
pubmarine question with Admiral von
Hol'zendorff, chief of the admiralty
staff. Several of the higher officials
participated.
Silence of Mr. Gerard
RERUN. April 24., 12:30 p. m. (Via
London 12:02 p. m.) The American
ambassador was called by telephone
to the imperial chancellor's palace
tills morning. He went Immediately
and the conference with Dr. von
Bethmann Hollweg lasted an hour and
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SEATTLE., April 24. Joseph Burke,
a 12 year old. boy, confessed to the
police today that he shot Frank
Bealer, aged 58, a mill worker, who
died today of a pistol wound Inflicted
last night.
"I did it the way they do It in the
shoots," the boy told the police.
put a handkerchief over my face and
when he got close enough I shot him.
I'm going to take my medicine like
a man."
The boy is in the fifth grade In
school and as far as known, never
had been In serious trouble before.
When taken to police headquarters
the boy apparently did not realize
ten minutes.
When he came from the conference. lthe seriousness of his offense,
Mr. Gerard declined to give any In.
formation as to the nature of the
discussion and would not answer a
question as to whether any one else
was present.
German Papers Talk of War
BERLIN, April 24. (Via London.
10:20 p. m.) The Sussex either was
or was not torpedoed by the Ger
mans," gays the Frankfurter Zeitung
in Its comment on the American note.
"For the present we assume that the
statement of the commander was right
nnd President Wilson's wrong. But
Americans must be convinced by
striking proofs of the falseness of
their assertions."
The paper believes, In the absence
(Continued on Page Two)
By General Order number three
Capt. Clarence V. Gulley of the Ari
zona National Guard ceases to be
come connected with that organiza
tion.
The order is issued to put into ef
feet the findings of the court martial
which tried him on eight counts and
specifications a month ago. The ver
dict of the court found him guilty of
four of the eight counts and specifi
cations and not guilty of the other
four. The sentence was dishonorable
dismissal from the service. The gov
ernor after a lengthy perusal of the
testimony in the case, commuted the
sentence to an honorable discharge,
without loss of rank or impairment
of his ability to earn and hold future
commissions.
In his review of the testimony, at
tached to the verdict passed out yes
terday afternoon by Adjutant General
Harris, the governor takes an oppor
tunity to guess at the possible
sources of information, to which the
Republican has access in its first ex
pose of National Guard conditions
The governor absolves the war de
partment, anil his own office from
creating the leak, and in a vague
manner suggests that either Capt
Cromwell Stacey or M. H. McLain of
Clifton could have divulged the mat
ters. The governor says in speaking
of Mr. McLain that ' While the de
fendant in testifying did not state the
and property in the Olifton-Morenci
district.
it is my honest opinion that the
planned to limit the general debate connect ion of Mr. McLain of Clifton
to five hours.
Democrats were greatly disappoint
ed late this afternoon when Seaker
Clark sustained a point of order
rained by Mr. Mann on a rule de
igned to send the urmy bill to con
ference without an intervening mo-
ion. Immediately after the speak
er's ruling. Representative Garrett of
Tennessee, souglit to have the rule
that the committee will report tomor
row adopted by unanimous consent
but again Mr. Mann objected, ending
the debate on the proposition for today.
Mr. Mann is objecting to the bill
going to conference, it is understood
n the hope that he will be aide U
obtain a vote to instruct the house
conferees on the provisions to provide
a regular army of 2".00(i and the fed
eral volunteer army system and ni
trate plant proposals. His objections
are not believed to be connected with
the "filibuster" which, democrats
charged the republicans are conduct
Ing for the purpose of delaying con
slderatlon ot the administration legis-
lntive program.
Leaders de?Ided tonight to call
caucus on the Philippine bill but set
no dale for it. This decision was
reached after Representative Jone.?,
chairman of the insular affairs com
mittee, who' introduced the measure
in the house "iad sounded enough re
publicans and democrats on the bill
to convince himself that it had a good
chance of passage. It still is con
sidered doubtful, however, that it will
be Indorsed by the caucus.
ILLEGAL TO TEACH NEGROES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla., April 24
To test the new state law making it
Illegal for white persons to teach ne
groes, three nuns from St. Joseph
convent today were placed under Tie
larres here. They were allowed thei
freedom on their recognizance Th
charges were brought by several ne
groes who declared the case would be
carried to the supreme court of the
United States.
SIR ROGER CASEMENT GAPTUHED
TRAITOR ID CRM BRITAIN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 24. Further
developments in the pursuit of Villa
and the relations between the United
States and the de facto government
of Mexico now await personal discus
sion of these subjects by the senior
military advisors of the two govern
ments.
A conference between Major Gen
eral Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of
the United States army and General
Obregon, minister of war of the de
facto government was arranged late
today to take place probably in Juar
ez. General Scott is now in San An
tonio, Texas, and General Obregon is
thought to be already on his way
north from Mexico City. They may
meet tomorrow or next day.
Announcement that Gen. Carranza
has agreed to the conference was
made by Eliseo Arredondo Mexican
ambassador-designate, who paid a
second visit to Secretary Lansing to
day to communicate the fact. Secre
tary Baker was promptly informed
and the information transmitted to
General Scott.
Mr. Arredondo called at the state
department first to say that his gov
ernment asked that some reply be
made to the note of April 12 sug
gesting that the American troops be
withdrawn from Mexico. A similar re
quest was transmitted by Special
Agent Rodgers at Mexico City. At
that time Mr. Arredondo could only
sv tht nefrot i:i t iona fur the pimfur. !
ence between the two generals were
in progress In Mexico City and he
was hopeful it could be arranged.
The ambassador was informed that
no reply could be made to General
C'arranza's note at present, Secretary
Lansing is understood to have made
it plain that the Washington govern
ment was anxious thut General Scott
be given chance to talk the situa
tion over with General Obregon be
fore a formal answer was prepared.
On his return to the embassy, Mr. Ar-
VILLISTAS MUST DIE
FOR COLUMBUS MURDER
DEM ING, N. M., April 24 The
seven Villistas who were cap-
tured after the raid on Columbus
and convicted of murder in the
first degree were condemned to
I death today by Judge Edward L.
I Medler. The date of the execu
I tion was set for May 19. The
I prisoners pleaded that they were
j ignorant of where they were go-
ing at the time of the raid and
that they were forced to follow
I Villa under penalty of death.
I Six of the bandits listened un-
moved to the sentence of death,
I but the seventh, Jose Range, who
had been wounded in the raid,
and was carried into court on a
Icot, cried piteously for mercy.
Judge Medler ordered the pris
oners sent to the Santa Fe pen-
itentiary for safe keeping. Only
I a few persons were present when
sentence was pronounced and
I there was no demonstration.
I The names of the six other VII
I listas who were sentenced to
death are Juan Sanchez, Eusebio
I Renteria, Taurino Garcia, Jose
Rodriguez, Francisco Alvarez and
Juan Castillo.
1
Mexicans Are Sure
The Sun Of Villa
Has Set For Ever
BOMBARDMENTS
FEATURE DAY
IT I
T
French and Italian Aerial
Attacks Upon Teutonic
Allies. Another Fleet of
Zeppelin's Invaded Eng
land Last Night
RUSSIAN DEFEAT
IN THE CAUCASUS
In Spite of Late Reverses
In Mesopotamia, Bri
tish Persist In the Move
ment to Relieve General
Townshend
nor divulge the manner in which this
person came into possession of of
ficial information that concerned him
n no proper way, a reasonable as-
umplion on which to base a careful
nalysis of the charges preferred
gainst the said Capt. C. V. Gulley
that the defendant in this portion
f his testimony referred to the Mr.
McLain who is connected with the
Detroit Copper company, and who
im.ieieioioie oer.i u.i-.,.,. ., redon,lo fmmd a meSsage announcing
criticism ot ine service renuereu uy
the National Guard in protecting life
that General Obregon would go to
the border.
Details of the meeting were left to
General Scott by administration offi-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, April 24. Information
received here today by an American
mining concern with large interests
in the Guerrero district stated- that
the majority of the American troops
were now concentrated near Nami
quipa. Two weeks ago, according to
the same sources there were 2,000
United States troops camped at San
Antonio, sixty-five miles southeast of
Namiquipa, with a very large quan
tity of supplies. It is said that at
present there are not more than 300
troops at San Antonio, the remainder
together with most of the supplies
having been withdrawn north.
According to the most reliable in
formation obtainable here General
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Artillery bombardments alone are
taking place on the French and Bel
gian fronts, the scene of the greatest
activity being the region of Le Mort
Homme and in the Argonne forest, with
the Germans the aggressors in the for
mer and the French in the latter sector.
French aviators in squadron forma
tions have dropped large numbers of
shells on German positions at Longu
yon, Stenay, Dun and near Monte
Faucon.
The fighting between the Russians
and the Germans and Austrians along
the eastern front continues at various
points, but no important changes in
position are reported. The same is true
of the Austro-ltalian zone.
Vienna reports an attack Easter Sun
day by seven Italian aeroplanes on the
city of Triest, in which nine civilians,
five of them children, were kiled and
five wounded. The report says that
because of this attack the "Enemy for
feited every right to have his towns
spared."
The British in German East Africa
are continuing their forward move
ment against the Germans, having now
occupied the town of Kondoa in the
Irangi region. Considerable casualties
were inflicted on the Germans.
The British also have been successful
in an operation near Deuidar, Egypt,
repulsing with heavy casualties, a
Turkish attack. In an engagement
Pershing has concentrated his forces
at Namiquipa and Colonia Dublan near Quatia village, however, the Brit
with heavy detachments guarding the
much -shortened line of communica
This movement has caused con
riiils. At Uip Mexican emlttissv how-I t ion
rut tvi-i, iinutiilkte niuiri'eu of nreKS in I .. ... ....... .
1 I ever, it was salil that while no worn : sidernnle nismav to thp intprventmn-
formation named by the defendant (K, flo, ,,,, .:., i,.M .h ,
are negligible in these proceedings as
icing official sources from which
the newspaper statements would very
improbably be derived. So far as
the remaining two sources are con
cerned, I have no disposition to draw
conclusions beyond that point where
on his way to the border, there was for a speedy withdrawal of the expe-
reason to believe he had already left dition if satisfactory arrangements
Mexico City. As the two officers are are made with the de facto govern-
of equal military rank and as Gen- ' ment at the forthcoming conference
eral ( ibregon is a cabinet officer in here between General Scott and Gen
addition, it was assumed at the em- ' eral f (bregon.
bassv that hp would siure'pKt thnt : The, news of thp fnmini R,ntt
they would so extenuate the offense n-r him , T0, ; fo . i,.j .:tu
committed as to justify a mitigation in ut.pnrd.,nr- .. rirPorton h ! i,vmii ffti h. th. At-io
military custom although the sue- officials at Juarez. They professed
ceeding meetings, it was said, prob- confidence that it meant an early re
ably would take place across the bor- ' call of the American troops from
der in El Paso because of the better j Mexico.
accommodations there. "The purpose of the American expe-
The meeting was suggested first dition has been accomplished," said
of the sentence imposed upon the de
fendant by the court."
The governor is inclined to be of
the opinion that Gulley was the tool
of some one higher in his alleged at
tacks against the adjutant general
and himself.
Guilty and Not Guilty
The court found Gulley guilty of
the first charge a "Violation of Par
graph 6, section 77, Military Code
of Arizona." Of specification two of
the first charge, wherein Gulley
charged with .making incendiary re-
ish were forced to retreat after an en
gagement with a Turkish column su
perior in numbers.
In the Kut-El-Amara region of Mes
opotamia, despite their recent defeat,
the British are keeping up their efforts
to lift the siege of Kut-El-Amara. The
town of Sannayyat is still under the
bombardment of the British guns.
Constantinople, reporting on the repulse
of the British at Felapie last week, say
the British losses were more than
3,000, about 2,000 being killed.
A defeat of the Russians on the cen
ter of the Turk line in the Caucasus re
gion is recorded by Constantinople, but
the Russian war office announces that
Turkish attempts to advance were
frustrated.
Sir Robert Casement, leader of the
in Mexico now being worked out by
General Funston. The plan was fav
ored by both war and state depart
ment officials nnd Snecinl Aypnt
inns lu mn,im-, in i..r ku.hu hi Kodgers was asked to present it to
ine armory, lie is iuuiiu gui'iy.
Of charge two, wherein Gulley is
accused of violating paragraph 8
section 77, of the military code, the
Court decided that Not Guilty was the
proper verdict. The same verdict was
after General Scott had started to j one official. "Villa's power has been ! Irish Separatist party, who is reported
to nave negotiate", witn uermany con
cerning an invasion of Ireland, has been
captured from a German ship sunk
while attempting to land arms in Ire
land. England has received another visita
tion from Zeppelins, three of the air-
Mexico and ' shiDS having dropped incendiary bombs
on ine eastern counties.
the border on his mission which re- j broken, his followers are scattered in
sulted in the authorization for the 1 to small bands with whom our troops
re-disposition of the American troops , will have no difficulty in dealing and
the bandit's prestige is lost forever.
I presume that President Wilson
wishes to receive formal assurances
that we are in a position to com
pletely restore order in
General Carranza. Because of the protect the border from anv further
latter's alleged jealousy of his war ' regrettable incidents like that at Co-
rendered in specification one of
charge two, In that Gulley instructed
minister, some officers doubted that
the conference could be arranged.
Rending the conference and any ef
fect it may have on the situation.
lumbus. General Obregon will be
able to give General Scott every as
surance of this kind and I feel cer
tain the conference will end in the
Tribute to the Brave
LONDON, April 24 "Anzac Day,"
the anniversary of the landing of the
Australians and New Zealanders on
General Funston will carry out his I establishment of a friendly agree- .'"P011 Peninsula, win De celebrated
nlans for re-ailiustinir his IIiipm in ' ment httrn th. t, n,,t .t " ""'w a marcn oi z.uuu Austra-
Sgt. Duncan of his company that Mexlc0 so as to nlake the position of i the withdrawal of the American sol
there would be no more drills of his his troops secure for a sUy (lf anyjdiers.
company. length. Secretarv Baker reiterated ! Nn nv ,,f unir ,iioionD i
is the verdict for charge today that the authorization under 1 Mexico of anv kind has reached the
Republican A. P. Leaied Wire ternoon of April 20 and the afternoon
LONDON, April 24. 10:25 p.' m. of April 21. an attempt to land arms
Sir Roger Casement has been captured and ammunition in Ireland was made
from a German ship which tried to
land arms In Ireland and was sunk.
This official announcement was made
tonight as follows:
During the period between the af-
Presentation Of Evidence To
Determine Von Igel's Status
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, April 24. Evidence
presented here today before the fed
eral grand Jury Investigating the al
leged plot to destroy the Welland canal,
established, according to federal au
thorities, that Captavn Franz von Pa
pen's former office at 60 Wall street
was not a branch of the German em
bassy when Wolfe von Igel was arrested
there on April 18, and the papers
claimed by the German ambassador
seized.
The papers now are Hi the custody of
the department of Justice In Washing
ton. They were sent to the capital by 1915,
United States Attorney Marshall at the
request of the state department, after
Ambassador von Bernstorffs demand
for their return on the ground that they
were seized on German territory. .
Attorney General Gregory and the
local prosecuting officers insisted that
the former office of von Papen was not
German territory. The state depart
ment announced that the return of the
papers rested on this point. It also
had an important bearing, it was said,
on the status of von Igen, whose re
lease the German ambassador demand
ed, representing that he became a mem
ber of the embassy staff In December,
by a vessel under the guise of a neu
tral merchant ship, but which in re
ality was a German auxiliary on con
Junction with a German submarine.
The auxiliary sank and a number of
prisoners were made, amongst whom
was Sir Roger Casement
Sir Roger Casement before the out
break of the European war was in
the British consular service, having
held posts in Portugal, West Africa,
the Congo Free State, Haiti, San Do
mingo and Brazil.
In November, 1914, it was reported
that Sir Roger, who was the leader j
of the separatist faction in Ireland had
gone to Berlin and conferred with the
German Imperial authorities,, his in-
tention, it was said being to open ne
gotiations between the German gov
ernment and the Anti-English party
in Ireland.
Assurances were said to have been
given to Sir Roger that should th3
German troops land in Ireland all na
tive Institutions would be respected by
them. Sir Roger's followers In Ire
land were, according to the report,
to give every aid to the Germans. The
"Guilty
three, a "violation of paragraph 14,
section 77, Military Code." On the
first specification of the third charge,
the court found Gulley not guilty. On
specification two of the third charge
Gulley was found guilty. On the
third specification, wherein Gulley is
accused of making false statements
in regard to the political attitude of
Col. Harris, he was found not guilty.
The governor's comment on the
proceedings of the trial, and his or
der in the case is as follows:
The record and the findings of the
Court-Martial having been forwarded
to the governor as reviewing officer,
the following are his orders thereon:
State House, Phoenix,
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on rage Two)
THE PR1NHRIES THATWERE
AHMED
ilians to a service in Westminster Ab
" bey. Similar services will be held
.throughout the empire.
The king has sent the following tele
grams to several generals :
"Tell my people that I am joining
them in this solemn tribute to the
many of their heroes who died in Gal
lipoli. Their valor and forti
tude have shed fresh lustre on the
British army. May those mourning
their loss find comfort in the conviction
j that they did not die in vain, but that
j their sacrifice has drawn our peoples
j more closely together and added
strength and glory to the empire.."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OMAHA, April 24. With the count
of the vote cast at the state presi
dential preference primary nearly
April 18, 1916. 1 complete Senator Albert B. Cummins
On reviewing the testimony taken of Iowa is leading Henry Ford of De-
during the trial by court-martial of troit for the republican presidential
Captain Clarence V. Gulley, charged nomination by 1300 votes.
with several modes of conduct unbe- The republican delegation to the
coming a military officer and a gen- national convention it is said will
tleman, all of which are specified in cast a majority of votes for Justice
the record of the case, I find ample Charles E. Hughes for president.
evidence to sustain ine coun in aa-1 Democratic delegates at large to
judging the defendant guilty on three the national convention will be about
of the charges specified. equally divided between supporters of
Beyond any reasonable doubt, the W. J. .Bryan and President Wilson.
said Captain Clarence V Gulley has
New Zeppelin Visitation
T AVnAV DC T-..ll.: v
est in New Jersey's presidential pri- Th '.11"
Z n t , df,, tS, Ih,ere there! bombs, according to the official an
are contests for district delegates to nouncement
the republican national convention, i The conditions were ideal for the
In these districts one set of candi- . Zeppelin raiders. The night was dark
dates favors the nomination of The- ; aml the atmosphere clear. There was a
odore Roosevelt and the other set is liffht southwest wind which had been
unpledged. There are only four can- ; considered unfavorable for Zeppelins
didates for the four places as dele- ; but it was only a breeze, and any threat
gates at large to the Chicago con- of a storm which it might have pres-
.ci.i.oi. u u.i ui mem are running . aged, was lessened by a favorable
been proved guilty of such unsol
dierly activities as were subversive of
discipline and tended directly to
wards .the demoralization of the Na
tional Guard of Arizona at a time so
critical as to render his conduct es
pecially reprehensible and 'devoid of
that patriotism which Is justly ex
pected from a member of any mili
tary organization maintained for pur
poses of national defense and state
protection.
In my judgment, however, it be
comes evident from the record of
proceedings that the defendant herein
named did not, in all probability, con
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Six)
The Ohio Fight
COLUMBUS, Ohio, April 24 The
fate of Governor Frank B. Willis and
Former Governor James M. Cox in
tomorrow's presidential preference
primaries over Ohio, was the subject.
of much speculation in political cir
cles tonight. Both are candidates for
delegates at large, Mr. Willis on the
republican and Mr. Cox on the dem
ocratic ticket. Both are considered
rival candidates for the governorship
at the November election and each
has enemies within his party.
without designation.
t barometer.
Stronger Rule Laid Down
Against Dishonest Advertisers
New Jersey Primaries
TRENTON, N. J., April 24. Inter-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, D. C, April 24
In defining today more clearly
than ever before what constitutes
dishonest advertising through the
mails the supreme court held in ef
fect that advertisers, even though they
give purchasers value received for their
cials declare the decision will pave the
Way to scores of prosecutions and make
posible the enforcement of a much more
stringent federal supervision of mail
advertising.
The opinion was announced by Jus
tice McKenna, reversing the district
court in southern Florida which quash-
money, are guilty of fraud if by "exag- i ed an Indictment against officials of
gerated advertising propaganda they the New South Farm and Home Corn
have led clients to expect more. Offi- pany.
I
