5
The Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City and Constitu­
tion-Democrat
5-V.
"4, fSri.
is received over
our own leased wire.
VOL. 122. NO. 99.
German Squadron Driven Off After Twenty
Minute Battle on East Coast After
Killing Several.
Two men, one "woman and one
child were killed during the bombard
ment. The material damage done by
the Germans was Insignificant, the
admiralty stated.
The German squadron consisted of
light cruisers.
Two British light cruisers and one
destroyer drove off the Germans.
None of the warships were sunk. The
engagement lasted twenty minutes.
The Germans bombarded tiie sea
side resort of Lowestoft, 100 miles
northeast of London, at long range,
killing two men, a woman and a child
In their beds. The bombardment did
no great damage.
Engaged by British forces in a hot
twenty minute tight, the Germans
made their escape In the darkness.
Two British light cruisers and one
destroyer were hit, but none of the
war ships was sunk.
The German cruiser squadron ap
peared off l^owestoft five hours after
three Zeppelins dropped seventy in
cendiary bombs, injuring one man,
but did no great damage. At about
the same time as the cruiser raid,
Ave German war planes attacked the
French port of Dunkirk across the
channel, killing a woman and wound
ing three men.
This morning'B raid by German war
ships, the first since the bombard
ment of Scarborough and Hartlepool
on December 16, 1914, was at once
This is Germany's Present
S Problem in Considering
the American Protest.
WASHINGTON, April 25.—Warn
ing against over-confidence in the
tending negotiations with Germany
"was given by officials today. Await
ing receipt of an official outline of
•the German reply to President Wil
fison's final note on boat warfare,
1
lope of a favorable settlement has
"been tempered somewhat by official
'Vord that Germany faces a very difll
~*cult task of convincing Its own people
'of the Justice of the president's de
mands.
There is no question the govern
ment of Germany wishes to vaold a
break if possible, if German editorial
comment which has been given Presi
dent Wilson is an Indication. Official
dispatches on the other hand, sug
gest that the suddenness and force of
the president's note has brought the
Imperial government face to face with
the necessity of quick action at a
time when it appears difficult to con
vince the people of its necessity.
It is believed this country may
anow the German position within' a
very short time—probably tonight or
MADE RAID WITH BOMBS
First Time Since December 1914 That Attempt
Has Been" Made to Terrorize Britains
From the Sea.
.LONDON, April 25.—A
iquadron appeared off Lowestoft at
four a. m. today, but was driven off,
the admiralty announced this after
noon.
The raid followed by about Ave
hours the appearance of Zeppelins off
the county of Norfolk, & few miles
north of Lowestoft and la presumed
to have been part of an attempt to
terrorize the east coast by simultane
ous attacks. The results of the Zep
pelin raid have not yet been an
nounced, though the first reports
said a number of Incendiary bombs
were dropped.
The Germans were engaged 'by the
British naval forces and driven off
by British cruisers and destroyers.
German connected in the public mind with
Sir Roger Casement's attempted
landing on the Irish coast and last
night's midnight Zeppelin raid. The
popular guess was that the Germans
planned a three angled campaign of
terrorism, counting upon first .starting
an uprising in Ireland and then de
scending upon1 the east coast with
cruisers and Zeppelins.
Whether the German cruisers
emerged from the submarine base at
Zeebruge, Belgium, where the several
light vessels capable of serving as
auxiliary cruisers are reported to
have been lying, or whether they de
scended from the Heligoland naval
base is not yet known. All the raid
ing war ships were described of ex
ceptional speed.
The raid by the German warships
was preceded by about twenty hours
by a similar raid by British warships
and destroyers on Zeebrugge and Bel
gian coast towns held by the Ger
mans, according to a News Agency
dispatch from Amsterdam. The Brit
ish bombarded Zeebrugge for some
time, damaging the harbor and docks
and sinking some small ships, the dis
patches said.
No Great Damage Done. jn the raid, the war office announced,
LONDON, April 25.—A squadron of (but only two succeeded in penetrat
German light cruisers raided the Eng
lish east coast under cover of dark
ness at four a. m. today, but was
driven off in a sharp engagement with
British cruisers and destroyers.
Four or five Zeppelins participated
ing to Norfolk and Suffolk counties.
[This is the first time a German
squadron has appeared off the English
east coast since the bombardment of
Scarborough and other English east
coast towns December 16, 1914.
Txrw-ftstoft lies about 100 miles
northeast of London in the oounty of Ppeached
Shakespeare and Bacon.
CHICAGO, April 25.—So that Chi
cago will not be in contempt of a
court decision crediting Bacon, not
Shakespeare, with Hamlet, et el, an
ordinance has been proposed chang
ing the name of Shakespeare avenue
to Bacon street.
HOW TO AVOID A BREAK
WITHOUT AROUSING PEOPLE
TILsrs IrElS
difficulties lacing uie uerman
wnrfnre
A
t0 mafce
ment. but he feels that this country,]
has done its part and there will be was part of this scheme,
no relaxing in the purpose to stop
nnlv be determined after
It
fs now
Germany
LONDON, April 25.—Following a
brief open session, parliament met
behind closed doors this afternoon to
learn the decision of the cabinet on
the Issue of general conscription.
The government was expected to bare
the military reasons behind Its action.
It was really a secret sessaion, un
like the executive sessions of the
United 8tates senate. Before the
doora were closed, the cellars and
ventilators were searched and the
press and public were excluded from
the lobbies and corridors. A force of
guards Insured the strictest secrecy.
The press was warned that any
newspaper publishing the slightest
reference to the proceedings or In
dulging In any speculation, beyond
the official statement, would be con
fiscated.
SOCIALISTS WANT PEACE.
SALFORD, England, April 25.—
After the secession of thirty dele
gates who protested against the anti
war policy, the British socialist
party, in conference here, adopted
resolutions favoring the speedy ter
mination of the war.
8HELLEO AND SUNK.
LONDON, April 25.—The Dutch
steamer Berkelstrom, bound from Am
sterdam was shelled and sunk Sunday
by two German submarines which
gav« the crew fifteen minutes to take
to the boats. The captain and crew
have been landed.
The steamer Rose has been sunk.
Eleven of her crew were picked up.
TREACHERY IN IRELAND.
LONDON, April 25.—Sir Roger
Casement, whose capture off the
Irish coast spelled a reckless at
tempt to foment disorder In Ireland,
probably will escape execution, it
was said today.
Officials are said to be convinced
that Sir Roger has been mentally un
balanced for the last three years. De
spite his traitorous conduct, after
long years In the service of his coun
try, he probably will be confined In
the
Suffolk It is city ot about 35,0001 untecrs.
and Is noted chiefly as a fashionable The government expects to prove
bathing resort and as a fishing town, that German money at the bottom
The older part of the town lies on|of many of these disturbances and
a cliff overlooking the sea. There is 1 that Sir Roger Casenfent has directed
a lighthouse on the cliff and at it®| the activities of some
base is another lighthouse which oc
cupies a plot of ground at the east
em most coast of England. Lxvw-j
estoft has ship building facilities andj
its fishing smacks operate through-1
out the North sea.]
camDaien during a readjustment. Irishmen. The organization known
generally believed word as the Irish Volunteers has
has already gone out to submarine parades as counter demonstrations to
commander^ for a temporary cessa- the efforts ting|80na
tinn of activity against commerce, [agents and despite the strong
ate foreign relations committee on
the international, situation. It is be
lieved Stone desires to know what
the president's course of action would
be should Germany send an unfavor
able reply and what would be consid
ered an unfavorable reply.
Serious Uprisii
IjONDON,
land, announced in the house of com
mons this afternoon.
The rioters seized the Dublin post
office. Soldiers arriving from Cur
ragh, guelled the rioters after a
street battle, in which twelve per
sons were lfllled. The situation is
When the president left (now under control of the authorities,jnow
tomorrow.
today for Princeton to vote, he re- Birrell announced.
quested that any news of importance The outburst of rioting, it is con-|
received during the day from Ambas- sidered certain, was part of a well'
sad or Gerard be forwarded to him at organized German attempt to stirrup
Bo^ern onK thfi Irish coast, undoubtedly
II
concessions. Whether [country.
[•*."
»W
an& Con$tttutton-3Beraocrat
some Institution and closely guarded pedition provided for the first time suf
for the remainder of hla life.
No Incident in several weeks has
so stirred the English public as the
brief announcement of the once bril
liant Irishman's capture. The morn
ing newspapers gave the most promi
nent display to the admiralty an
nouncement and speculated briefly
upon the Identity of the German
auxiliary sunk by British patrols
while trying to land Sir Roger and a
strong force of sailors.
The capture of Sir Roger and his
German accomplices is expected to tlons covered two days and that only
have a wholesome effect upor» the)one vessel was employed, suggests
situation in certain parts of Ireland only a limited amount of material was
where sedition has been openly landed. When this is expended, it is
difficult to determine where other im
portant supplies can be obtained un
less the troops quartered in Ireland
mutiny. The most advantageous con
sequence of the Irish uprising for Ger
many will probably be the permanent
detention within Great Britain of large
bodies of troops that otherwise would
be sent to the France-Belgium front.
so-called Irish vo
of the Irish
(Continued on page 2.)
llas
or not such assurances will he ac-1 For several weeks some Irifrti news-Idlers arriving from Curragh put down dent of the vice fegent.
eentablo to the United States can (papers have been appearing carrying! the first rebellion. Birrell first an-
seditious articles opposing any par-. nounced to commons that the riots
has halted her present submarine ticipation in the war on the part of foeen quelled and that the soldiers rn-«
The president will return tonight for tihe government taken by -'ohn!graphic communication, the govern-.
and tomorrow faces a busy day of Redmond and other Irish party lead-1
conferences with members of con- ere.
££ss Tomorrow evening he will con- The situation has been growing
fer wit hChairman Stone of the sen- ^Sr11of iSTpers^hkh "be-! 7astt8e'ze,d
had
KEOKUK, IOWA, TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 1916
REVOLVTION STARTED IN IRELAND
MM 01 EM
WELL ORGANIZED
England Has Grave Problem
on Her Hands to Pat
Down the Re
bellion.
GERMANY BEHIND
Rebels Were Art Ready to 9
Minute They Were Ab'
Secure Guns and—
ig in Ireland
in
1-eld whlch was teken
hrgt
s|and hecause Qf
i1
_i
camo particularly violent in their the first attack, is anjmposing stone
agitation against recruiting,
suppressed.
It has been known to the govern
ment that this propaganda was car
ried on witk the encouragement of
FRAN
i.
/. 6*
the
Bullets.
if By J. W. T. Mason, Written for the
United Press.]
NEW YOUK, April 25.—There can
no longer be any doubt but that a
grave situation of rebellion now exists
in Ireland. The frustration of Sir
Roger Casement's efforts at gun run
ning, has been only partly successful
and it Is practically certain that his
expedition landed munitions on the
.frish coast before the British naval
forces intervened.
More disquieting than Casement's
exploit, for the British government, is
the fact that a well organized move
ment was ready in Ireland to make in
stant use of the arms Imported from
Germany. The "grave riots" announc
ed in the house of commons this after
noon, are undoubtedly the work of pro
German agitators in Ireland whose
propaganda the Dublin castle authori
ties have been unable to put down.
For many months there have been
indications that a Irreconcilable part
of Ireland's population has been pre
paring for a seditious uprising. The
difficulty of getting proper war equip
ment, has been very great, owing to
the stringent regulations of the Brit
ish government. The Casement ex-
is Pc
irt of German Scheme
PARIS, April 25.—Using liquid Are,
the Germans made three most violent
attacks agalnat the newly gained
French positions on Dead Man's hill
,5, night
The war office announced that all
p* ires attacks were stopped by cur
.ain fire from the French Infantry.
The Germans were driven back to
their old lines, suffering very heavy
losses.
Intense artlHery bombardment oc
curred during the night In the region
of Avocourt, northwest of Verdun.
On the east bank of the Me tree, the
bombardment was rather violent.
Grenade fighting occurred last
night in the Apremont woods, south
east of Verdun.
MORE RUSSIANS ARRIVE.
PARIS, April 25.—A second convoy
of Russian troops arrived at Marseil
les aboard transports today.
DUNKIRK RAIDED.
PARIS, April 25.—Five German war
planes raided the French coast town
of Dunkirk this morning, dropping
six bombs. One woman was killed
and three men wounded. The war of
fice announced that only alight dam
age was done.
April 2.5.—Grave riots German agents, if not with the aid been made, but said he was unablo at ence between Chief of Staff Hueh L.
broke out in Ireland yesterday, Aug- of German money. this time to give any names. Scott and General Obregon in their
•usiine Birrell, chief secretary for Ire- The capture of Sir Roger Casement meeting at the border, it. was expect
and his band of Germans off the' [Dublin, the capital of Ireland, has ed today. Scott will not leave for the
coast of Ireland, gave the authorities!a population of about 500,000 and is border until the latter part of the
concrete evidence of the part Ger-i situatpd near the entrance to Dublin week when it is expected Obregon
many is playing in the attempts to I bay, on the Irish sea, sixty-six miles will appear at the international line,
stir up revolt in Ireland. west of Holy Head and 133 miles ready to discuss the expedition.
Sir Roger, it was learned today, j.
been brought to London and is'
custody of the military
authorities, waiting trial.
Rebellion Continue*.
IvONDON, April 25.—Irish rebels
are In possession of four or
It Is believed here, that the Ger-jfetary for Ireland announced in the! imposing buildings, among them the
nendine adontlon of! mans using Sir Roger Casement as I house of commons this afternoon. general postofflce mentioned in to
meeting^ Am^ican approval a tool carefully planned In advance, Telegraphic communication with day's dispatches from London. Phoe
has been reported in official circles a revolution, counting upon Sir Riog-| Dublin has been cut ofr, indicating nix Park, at the western end of 'he
that German officials have assured ier's dramatic appearance at the head! that the principal porUon of the city city, is one of the finest parks In
Ambassador Gerard that Germany is lof a German force to sweep the is held by the rebels. the world and contains a military ho-
outburst yesterday. Twelve per- b/Wses.
were
t^o interruption of tele-
haa no egtimate on
number of casualties.
The Dublin general POSUCfiC3
by
Brlt,(,h
BERLIN, April 25.—Several waves
of French attacks against German
positions on Dead Man's hill last
night, broke down under German fire, qulpa to Columbus, N. M.
the war office announced this after
noon.
Northeast of Avocourt, grenade at
tacks developed throughout the
night.
Near Tahure, two French aero
planes were brought down.
State Auditor Married.
I OHIOAGtD, April 25.—State Auditor
flcient munitions to influence the Irish James J. Brady was married to Miss
leaders into ordering an uprising. Katherine Koch of Springfield, 111., a
rt Is highly probable that the Ger-, stenographer, at St. Petersburg. Fla.,
to advices re­
mans ordered today's naval raid on
the British coast for the purpose of
encouraging the Irish and throwing
the British government into added
confusion. How sweeping may be
come the Irish rebellion depends large
ly on the quantity of munitions that
Sir Roger Casement was able to get
ashore. The British government's ail
nouncement that Casement's opera-
yesterday according
ceived here today.
One on His Rival.
TRENTON, N. J., April 25.—Ed
ward Malkowski, 18, confessed to the
police that he shot himself and faked
a story about being waylaid in order
to put his rival in love in Jail.
in the night court and disturbed the
Recovered.
improved today from her recent ill-1
ness that she was planning to
sume her work at the settlement.
troops are embarked for'
pears to bo a very serious rebellion,
they probflbly will board transports
at.
Liverpool.
the
It is possible that one
iiri
of
jz
twenty-four hours of most serious miblln is a modern city with brorvl
rioting, Augustine Birrell, chief sec-jWeil paved streets and a numhrv or
Rioting broke out afresh after sol-! P,tal- zoological garden and the rt si-
reasons why larger British
forces have not been dispatched to
was the I
Tlle
TS^
Clly ,s
the
T?.nyal
in
built to serve as a fortress if properly
1
flanked north and south
j°^al grand canaw arid
is
a
clrculnf.
highway.
recaptured the Dublin postofftce, nv«r Tiffey passes through the „nizing industrially for natTonal de-
by the rebels in the!anl's "^sed by numerous
xhe
killed In the first tight, but, 'h.e a.Ss o? the co
u™vefs,,' *he ^ath-
total, JJT
.the
r.io,er®
museum are among the institutions
pointed out to visitors. The city is
also the seat of a Roman Catholic and
an Anglican arch bishop.
Dublin has been held by the Eng-
were! structure situated on Sackville street, ]jsh since It was conquered from the! manufacturers in making war sup
ja wide boulevard. It is admirably
])anes
js the birthplace of Swift, Steele,
manned by guns. Sheridan. Thomas Moore and the
Birrell announced that arrests have!duke of WellingtonJ
While the conference between Obre
gon and Scott was announced for El
Paso or Juarez, It Is rumored that the
meeting may be held at Eaglo Pass.
Juarez has never been friendly to
Obregon. As travel over Mexican
railways Is very uncertain, Obregon
is not expected to reach the border
before next week. It Is believed here
that Obregon will come as virtual dic
tator of Mexico with military power
to enforce any agreement he makes
with Scott regarding withdrawal
4.the
f"ture
"°r ." !?,?• to prevent Carrnnzistas in northern
NEJY^ YORK, April 2o.—James! Mexjco fr0m hindering supply ship
Long became weary while a spectator
menta
....
conduct of the expedition in
Mexlco
Firm Measures.
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, April 25.—
Firm measures were expected today
to American troops when Gen-
oraj
magistrate with snoring. Long General Pershing to meet the situa
ten days to rest. ^on i'ho expeditionary forces have
suffered severely as a result of Car-
m.?
Kunston dispatched messages to
ranza
CHICAGO, April _a. Miss Jane railroad consignments. General Fun
Addams, of Hull House, was so much
and
re"
commanders having seized
ston 8ai(j.
Food supplies for the men
carloads of fodder for the cavalry
horses have been hold up and in some
cases taken over by Carranzista com
manders, ostensibly under orders
from Carranza himself, it was stated.
Funston's move to prevent further
seizures was not made public, but it
was stated at headquarters that the
I
American officials resent the action
of the Carranza commanders nnd will
take "firm measures" to safeguard
the delivery of shipments both by rail
land motor truck.
The supply situation will be
thoroughly discussed in the confer-
Open Letter From President
Wilson Asks Co-operation
of the Citizens.
NEW YORK, April 25.—In an open
letter, made public today by the
oommitteo ou industrial preparedness
of the naval consulting board, Presi-
dent Wilson asks the co-operation of
(. bu3ineBS men 0f
university of Dublin, work will start May first when
America in or-
agents of the committee will start a
national inventory of factories and
shops with a view to finding out just
what their equipment Is and just
what their capacity would be for pro
ducing war supplies.
In addition to taking the inventory,
the committee proposes to instruct
in the ninth century. The city plies and to organize to keep ekilled
workmen on the joo of war by the
formation of an industrial reserve.
Thn president's letter follows:
JMP'SuiXflEiCfti' .i. ':'i
THE WEATHER
Partly cloudy. Cooler, Local
temp—7 p. m. 57 7 a. m. 45.
Fifteen Thousand American Soldiers Hold the
Line While Search for Villa Halts
for the Present.
CONFERENCE TP BE HELD ON BORDER
War Minister Obregon is Regarded as Virtual
Dictator of Mexico, With Power as ,)]
Great as Carranza's. a
[By E. T. Conkle. United Press Staff
Correspondent.]
EL PASO. Texaa, April 25.—The
border meeting arranged between
General Scott and War Minister
Obregon is believed here to indicate
practical acceptance of Carranza's
ablest military leader as the chief
factor in Mexico. The conference Is
not expected today to open in less
than a week.
In the meantime 15,000 United
States soldiers under General Per
shing will hold the line from Nami-
Tliey will
be heavily entrenched at Colon la Dub
Ian and Namlqulpa, not because thero
are 35,000 Carranza soldiers In Chi
huahua state, but as a precautionary
safety measure.
EIGHT PAGES
Headquarters did not know
conference will be held, bat Jaarex
was deemed a likely meeting pl&oa.
Final Dash Reported. 'J|
COLTJMBUS, N. M„ AprU JS.—A
final dash after Villa was reported
today to hare been started by an
American detachment while the main
expeditionary forces were being con*
centrated at Namlqulpa and Colonic
Dublan.
A column at cavalry was said to be
driving swiftly toward Villa's last re
ported hiding place in the Chflmaht
Sierras near Nonoava. No details of
the movement was obtainable here.
Two new aeroplanes undergoing their
final test at the local camp, were ex
pected to join the chase for scouting
In the rough country where the ban
dit leader is believed to be resting
and regatherlng his followers.
The last of the 2,300 reinforce-•
ments ordered nearly a week ago,
were expected here today. One troop
of the Tenth cavalry has arrived and
will Immediately join its regiment in
Mexico. 5 "Jjt
Villa Doubling Back. 'M
WASHINGTON. April S5.—Non
cava, mentioned earlier today In bor
der despatches as being the objective
of a final dash of a cavalry column
for Villa, is about sixty miles south
west of Satevo and almost due west
from Parral in the foothills of the
Chihuahua Sierras.
Confirmation of the United Press
despatch from Columbus that a re
newed Villa dash is In progress, was
given by General Tasker H. Bliss,
acting chief of staff today. He said
troops undoubtedly would be dis
patched to the Noncava region on the
strength of such reports of VQla's
whereabouts.
Army officers, upon hearing of the
reports from the border and from
Consul Letcher, pointed out that it:.
they prove true, it indicates Villa haa'd
stopped his dash southward toward
Durango. is doubling on his tracks
seemingly northward and westward
toward the mountainous region be
tween the states of Chihuahua and
Sonora.
Army officers also explained that
If Villa has turned in the direction
indicated, It will work directly Into
the plans for a shortening of the line
of communications, since the most ad
vanced columns can turn back north
ward in their pursuit
At the war department, the reports
were said to be the first received
since the Villa pursuit started, tell-
(Continued on page 2.)
PREPAREDNESS INVOICE
OF AMERICAN FACTORIES
'To the Business Men of America:
11 bespeak your cordial co-operation
in the patriotic service undertaken
Dy the engineers and chemists of thid
country under the direction of thfl
Industrial Preparedness commlttea
of the Naval Consulting board of thfi
United States.
"The confidential industrial inven
tory you are asked to supply is In
tended for the exclusive benefit ol
the war and navy department and
will he used In organizing the indu*
trial resources for the public service
in the national defense.
"At my request, the American
Society of Civil Engineers, the
American Institute of Electrical Bin
glneers and the American Chemica'
society are gratuitously assisting th
naval consulting board in the work
collecting this data and confident!
ask your earnest support In the 1
terest of the people and the gove
ment of the United States."
The naval military heads at W
ington, the chamber of commerce
the United States and the assoc
advertising clubs of the world
backing the work.
