HE BARRE- DAILY TIMES
rm
' VOL. XX NO. 35.
IjAKRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, APRIL 25, 1910.
PRICE,. ONE CENT.
MORE RUSSIAN
TROOPS LANDED
AT MARSEILLES
Second Contingent Soon Fol
lowed First "Arrival Last
Week to Aid the French,
British and Belgians in
Their Stubborn Resistance
to German Invasion ',
A FRENCH POSITION
' THRICE ASSAULTED
Paris Official Report Says
That the First Two Moves
Against Dead Man's Hill
Failed Completely, and the
Third, Aided by the Use
of Gas, Broke Down
Bombs Dropped on Dunkirk
SCOTT AND OBREGON
TO HAVE CONFERENCE
Marseilles, France, April 25. Another
contingent of Russian troops arrived here
to-day,
Paris, April 25. Three successive at
tacks were made by the Germans last
night on a new French position in the
region of Dead Man's hill on the Verdun
front.
A war office announcement tins atter
noon says: '
"The first two assaults failed com
pletely and the third attack, al
though assisted by the use of gas,
also broke down. The Germans sus
4iined heavy losses. German troops
also attempted last night to carry
the advanced post at the redoubt of
Avocourt, but were unable to achieve
their object. On the Verdun front
east of the Meuse there was less
activity. Fighting with gTenadea oc
curred" this morning in the Apre
niont forest.
"Six bombs were dropped this
morning on Dunkirk. One woman
was killed and three men were
wounded."
American Chief of Staff Will Meet Car
ranza's Minister of War, Probably in
Juarez, to Discuss Mexican
Situation.
Washington, I). C, April 25 Further
developments in the pursuit of Villa and
the relutions between the United Slates
and the do facto government of Mexico
now await personal discussion of these
subjects by the senior military advisors
of the two governments.
A conference between Major General
Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of the
American army, and General Alvaro Ob
regon, minister of war of the de facto
government, was arranged late yester
day to take place- probably in Juarez.
General Scott is now in San Antonio,
lex., and General Obregon is thought to
be already on his way north from Mexi
co City.
I he announcement that General C ar-
ranza had agreed to the conference was
made by Ehsco Arredomlo, Mexican am
bassador designate, who paid a seconJ
visit to Secretary Lansing yesterday to
communicate the fact, Secretary Baker
was promptly informed and the infor
mation transmitted to General Scott. Mr.
Arredondo called at the state depart
ment first to say that his government
asked that some reply be made to the
note of April 12, suggesting that Amer
ican troops be withdrawn from Mexico.
similar request was transmitted by
Special Agent Kodgers at Mexico Ciiy.
At that time Mr. Arredondo could only
say that negotiations for the conference
between the two generals were in prog-
ess in Mexico City and he was hopeiul
t could be arranged.
L
SHARP
AVA
CLASH
l Fleet of German Battle
Cruisers Made a Dash on
North Coast of England
and Were Engaged by
British Light Cruisers and
Shore Batteries of Lowe
stoft
it waa said, Wing to open negotiation
between the German government and the
anti-English party in Ireland.
Assurances' were said to have been
triven to Sir Roger tliHt should the Ger
man troops land in Ireland all native
institutions would be respected by them
Sir Roper's followers, in Ireland were.
according to the report, to give every
aid to the Germans. The report of his
activities in Germany created a sensa
tion in England and in February, 1913,
Sir Edward Grey announced in the House
of Commons that Sir Roger's pension a
a former member of the consular corps
had been suspended pending an mvesti
gat ion of charges of disloyalty against
him.
Sir Roger was created a knight in
1911. lie is 52 years old.
VILLA WEST OF PARRAL.
BULGARIAN LOSSES
ARE ABOUT 137,000
SINCE WAR STARTED
Of That Number 87,000 Were Killed and
50,000 Were Wounded or Are
Missing, According to Bul
garian Newspapers.
Athens, via Paris, April 25. Losses by
Bulgarians during the war are est
mated by Bulgarian newspapers received
here at 87,(100 killed and 50,000 wounded
or missing.
BLOOD SPILLED
IN DUBLIN RIOT;
POSTOFFICE SEIZED
Arrival of Troops from Carcagh Was All
That Averted a Worse Outbreak
and the Soldiers Now Con
trol Situation.
London, April 25. Augustine Birrell,
chief secretary for Ireland, announced in
the House of Commons to-day that grave
disturbances broke out in Dublin yester
day. He added that troops have been
sent to the Irish capital and the situa
tion is now well in hand. Birrell said
that 12 persons were killed before the
disturbance was quelled.
Birrell made the announcement in re
ply to a question by Commoner Craig.
He said that the postoffice was forcibly
taken possession of and the telegraph
was cut. In the course of the day, how
ever, troops arrived from Carrgh and
are now in control of the situation.
Four or five soldiers were killed.
Bandit Said to Have Been Discovered,
Pershing Reports.
San Antonio, Texas, April 25 Report.'
from General Pershing yesterday indi
cated that Francisco Villa had been lo
cated again, this time west of I'arral,
in the mountains of western Chihuahua.
He was last reported at Monoava, So
miles southwest of Satevo. The reports
indicated that Villa was wounded, but
only slightly, and that he was far from
being lneaiweitated. General runston
regarded the information that General
Pershing hud secured as authentic. No
troops have been sent in pursuit bceadse
it was said such a campaign would be
successfully conducted only after many
mote troops had been sent into Mexico.
Unofficial reports yesterday indicated
that General Carranza had sent gradual
ly into the north an army much larger
than that of the American forces, and
that a great part of it is in a position
to conduct a pursuit of ilia and his
scattered organizations.
G'eneral Filiiston sent to General Persh
ing preliminary orders for the. reconcen
tration of his troops along the lines he
had recommended and which had been
approved. Already General Pershing has
begun drawing in the mobile forces that
have been operating in advance of tho
southern terminus of his long line of
communication and the line itself will
be shortened. His headquarters will be
moved from Xamiquipa to Colonia l)u
blan and stronger units will be grouped
along the shortened line from Columbus
to a point nearer the border.
This new disposition of troops, pend
ing diplomatic developments, it is ex
pected, will serve the purpose not, only
of defense, but will enable General
Pershing to make rapid and offensive
moves in any direction in case of necessity.
THREE BRITISH SHIPS
HIT, BUT NONE SANK
After Twenty Minutes' Can
nonading, German Fleet
Retired, Having Killed
Two Men, One Woman
and One Child, but No
Having Done Much Mate
rial Damage
London, April 25. German battle
ships appeared off Lowestoft to-day
and opened fire on the coast. They were
engaged by the local aaval forces and
British light cruisers and retired in 20
minutes. In the engagement two British
light cruisers and a destroyer were hit,
but none was sunk. On shore two men.
one woman and a child were killed, but
the material damage apparently was
small. The Germans first appeared about
4:30. Announcement of the engagement
was made in an official statement.
The raiding squadron was composed of
battle cruisers, light cruisers and de
stroyers.
Lowestoft ia on the Xorth sea coast
about 100 miles northeast of London and
almost opposite The Hague.
COLUMBUS RAIDERS SENTENCED.
One Begged for Mercy and Six Remained
Stolid at Trial.
Deming. X. M., April 25. The seven
Villa followers who were captured after
the raid on Columbus and convicted of
murder in the first degree were con
demned yesterday to die May 19, by
Judge Edward L. Medler.
Tho prisoners pleaded that they were
ignorant of where they were going at the
time of the raid and that they were
forced to follow Villa under penalty of
death.
Six of the bandits listened unmoved to
the sentence of death, bitt the seventh.
lose Range, who had been wonnded in
the raid and was carried into court on &
cot, cried for mercy.
Judge Medler ordered the prisoners to
the Santa Fe penitentiary for safe keep
ing.
GERMAN BASE
BADLY BATTERED
BY THE BRITISH
WILLIAMST0WN.
SALONIKI OBJECT OF
ATTACK BY AIRMEN
German Aviators Are Flying Over the
Allies' Camp and Are Dropping
Bomb at Various Points,
Paris, April 25. A squadron of Ger
man aeroplanes has delivered another at
tack on the entrenched camp of the en
tente ailic at Saloniki. according to a
Haws dispatch from Salmtiki to-day.
The airmen are Hying over the camp
from all directions and dropping bomb
at various points. Little d.image ha
lt-n dope by the raiders, according to
the dispatch. Aside from aerial activity
there was calm ahng the from.
BOMBS SCATTERED ENEMY.
British Aviators Raided Hostile Camp
Near Sues CanaL
IxMnlon, April 25. Fight Pritish aero
planes homlxirdi-d ltiie ramps at (Jm
tia in Fgypt. near the Nix-, it was an
nounced .!:, lany to iiy. 1 he ramp wa
UVst roved mi. I the hostile trrmp. t
aiiatots rejmrted. apparent'v l-ci-an to
withdraw from t'i" dtrnt.
ELEVEN OF CREW SAVED.
As Brittja Steamship of i,63 Toot Was
Sank.
I.orid.-i. Apnl 25. Tie l'; t -h ta ui-
-1 tji i;m h t b :ik.
L' -.' n re"il'i I ii-r rift were sved.
The Odd Fellow will observe their an-
niversarv on Wednesday evening. April
20. All Odd Fellows and Rebekahs are
desired to present. '
Miss Ethel C. Wade, R. V.. was in
town last Friday as the guest f Miss
Bertha Cross. Miss Wade is well known
in town, having been called here several
times in her professional rapacity as
nurse, attached to the staff of Heaton
hospital, Montpelicr. She is now con
valescent from a long illness, and will
resume her duties whenever occasion
may demand.
Mrs. Etta Fuller baa returned to Rarre
after visiting a day or two with her
niece, Mrs. Maggie X. Coffin.
(hi Friday evening, April 21. at R
o'clock in the Methodist church, a recep
tion will W held to welcome the new
pa-tor. Everyone is cordially invited
to lie liri-sent.
The current issue of the Vermonter
contains an interesting and instruct!
article on WilUatnstoun, written bv Per
cy ,1. .letlords. who i a descendant of
one of the enrly -HWs of the town.
Reproductions of photographs of the rulf
and village scene are also shown in this
issue.
Glen McAllister has move.l from one
of the upper tenement in the K.Noii
Mock, where he ha lived f"r about four
vears rmt. to the house in the resr i f
Fleet of Warships, Accompanied By
Smaller Vessels, Poured a Rain of
Metal on Belgian Coast The
Heaviest Attack There
Since War Started.
London, April 25. An attack on Ger
man positions on the Belgian coast by
British warships is reported in an Ex
change Telegraph dispatch from Amster
dam. The report say the following mes
sage haa been received at Amsterdam
from Flushing:
"Severs! British' warships, ac
companied by destroyers and other
vessels) yesterday bombarded Zee
brugge and the German batteries off
lleyst, Blankenberghe and Knocke.
The bombardment was one of the
heaviest and longest duration since
the beginning of the war. The dam
age at Zeebrugge m said to have
been enormous. The harbor and
docks were hit several times and
some ships were sunk. British air
craft also threw bombs on the Ger
man butteries."
ZEPPELIN RAID
NOT EFFECTIVE;
70 BOMBS FALL
British Official Report Says That One
Man Was Injured as Result of
Airship Attack on East
ern Counties.
London, April 25. Seventy bombs
were dropped during lasi-night's Zeppe
lin raid on th eastern counties. One
man waa injured. Four or five Zeppelins
participated, the ollicial press bureau
says.
I he conditions were ideal for the Zcp
pelin raiders. The night waa fcrk and
the atmosphere clear. There waa a light
southwest wind, which had generally
been considered unfavorable for Zeppe
lins, but it wag litths more than a mild
hreeze and any threat of a storm which
it might liave ordinarily presaged waa
lessened by a favorable barometer.
The raiders appeared at about the cus
tomary hour and seemed a little uncer
tain as to their -location, as the early
reports showed that only incendiary
bombs were being dropped.
SEVERAL SHOTS FIRED.
-Two
In Strike Riot at East Pittsburg
Men Injured.
Pittsburg, April 25. The first serious
rioting in the strike of 13,000 employes
of the Westinghouse Electric and Manu
facturing company in East Pittsburg oc
curred last night. Several shots were
tired and an unidentified striker and a
detective were injured. v.The trouble was
the climax of a day of disorder during
which deputy sheriffs and railroad de
tectives frequently used their-eUibs.
intern hundred strikers were return
ing to East Pittsburg after breaking up
meeting of shell maker in YA ilmerd-
ing, an adjoining borough, when the clash
last night occurred. When the marchers
reached the Cable avenue bridge at the
Westimnouse plant the strikers, it is
laimed, charged past deputy sheriffs and
mill guards stationed at that point and
tarted across the bridge towards the
plant. -,
I liable to check. thMmah, the guards
grabbed riot guns from shed on the
bridge, but this failed to intimidate the
strikers. In the fight that followed one
f the guards discharged a revolver.
As the strikers nearcd the plant.
guarJs turned a stream of hot water
rom a fire hose-on them. The strikers
retreated, throwing stones as they ran.
The strikers were finally compelled to
scatter and order waa restored.
In Wilmerding late yesterday strikers
broke down the doors and forcibly en-
teted a building in which 1!HKJ shell mak
ers were holding a meeting. The strik
ers appeared lust as a resolution was
bout to be adopted., it is claimed, pro-
idmg for the men to Return to work
to-day. The strikers overpowered the
leaders and threw them out of the build
ing and then held a meeting of their
own. presided over by J. H. Hall, whose
ischarge is said to have been the indi
rect cause of the strike.
AMBUSHED
AND STABBED
Brattleboro Man May Have
Received Fatal Injury
in the Abdomen
EIGHT LAWYERS ON CASE.
TWO MEN SPRANG
ON HIM FROM BUSHES
Albert G. Venott Says He
Was Previously Threatened
by One of His Assailants
Brattleboro, April 25. Albert G. Ve
nott. ared 22. an emnlove of the White
Kiver Chair company, was stabbed and
perhaps tat-ally wounded while on ins
way to work this morning. He was
walking along a pathway near Morning
side cemetery when Xicholas Spinglla. and
rrank Legordon sprang from the busnes
on either side and one of them sank
knife into Venott'a abdomen. Both the
assailants fled to New Hampshire and
the officers are on the trail.
Venott was found bv other emnloves
and was sent to the hospital in West
Brattleboro. He told Dr. Edward K.
Lynch thtit he had words with one of his
assailants Saturday and the latter ex
claimed: "I will get vou yet."
v enott a condition is serious. 1 he ab
dominal cavity is filled with blood.
GERARD WAS CALLED
BY CHANCELLOR FOR
A CONFERENCE
American Ambassador at Berlin Spent
Over an Hour with Hollweg After
Latter's Return from a
Berlin, 12:30 a. m., via London, 1:30
. nr., April 25. The American ambassa
dor was called by telephone to the im
perial chancellor's palace yesterday
morning. He went immediately and the
conference with Dr. Von Bcthmann Holl
weg lasted an hour and ten minutes.
When he came from the conference he
declined to give any information as to
the nature of the discussion, and would
not answer a question as to whether
any one ele was present.
It is understood that the German re
ply to the American note will not be de-!
livered before the imperial chancellor
has another opportunity of conferring
with the emperor. """ i
Dr. Von Bethmann-Hnllweg devoted
the afternoon to conferences on the sub
marine question with Admiral Von Holt
zendorff, chief of the admiralty staff.
Several of the higher diplomatic officials
participated.
Phslps-Utley Alienation Suit from Cabot
Begins in County Court.
With eight attorneys involved, four
for the pluintiff and a like number for
tne defendant, the trial of tho case of
Frank C. Phelps vs. Charles L'tley in
Washington county court promise much
in tho way of interest, the plaintiff al
leging the alienation of affections of his
wife, by the defendant and asking dam
ages of $10,000. Both parties are resi
dents of Cabot and it is expected that
a goodly number of citizens if that vil
lage will appear on the stand during the
progress of the suit. The plaintiff asked
and obtained permission to file addition
al counts this forenoon, the defendant's
counsel not offering any real objection
but asking that their defense be al
lowed on the general issue.
Lined up on the aide of Mr. Phelps
are Attorneys J. Ward Carver of Barre,
I red L. Laird and William Lord of Mont-
pcller, and A. 1). Kimball of Hardwick,
and on the other side the legal talent
consists of Ex-Attorney General Refua
E. Brown of Burlington, Y. A. Dutton
and M. E. Morse of Hardwick, and Wil
liam X. Theriault of Montpelier. Mr.
Lord was not present in court this fore
noon when the jury was drawn, being j
detained at his home because of illness.
Two suits were filed in court this fore
noon, returned at the September term
Charles A. Milliken of Augusta, Me., and
Gustavus A. Towle of Lowell, Mass., and
the Northfield Savings bank being the
defendants in an action of general as
sumpsit brought by Charles C. Brill of
llion, Ji. Y I be amount named is ?H,-
000, Frank Plumley appearing for the
plaintiff. Milliken is a stockholder ot
the Vermont Black Slate company of
Northfield.
II. F. Cutler of Barre, through his at
torney, E. R. Davis, has brought suit
against Elizabeth W., W. L., and uuy
A. Hebard, all of Randolph, for
March Wilson appears for the defend
ants.
DESPONDENT
OVER ILLNESS
Walter Dean, Groton Farm
er, Killed Himself with
a Shotgun To-day
HAD ATTACK OF GRIP
EARLY IN WINTER
Had Partly Completed Mov
ing to Bath, N. H., Where
He Had Bought a Farm
TALK OF THE TOWN
GAVE MANY NAMES.
ATTACKED BY TWO SUBMARINES.
Dutch Steamer Was Shelled and Sunk
After Crew Fled.
London. April 25. The Dutch steam
er Berkelstroom of 700 t( n. bound from
Amsterdam with a ceueral carffo. vas
sunk Sunday by two German subma
rines. The crew was given 25 minutes
to leave the ship and the submarines
then shelled it with their guns for four
hours. The captain and crew of 22 men
were picked up.
GERMAN EXPEDITION
IN IRELAND FAILS
the I'nivrrsalist church, which le lateh fl""
bought ( i.iiv r. .Martin.
A fori of nu n nd team are draw in;
jrravrl from tne tutnk near the station
t-i SutH lm Miert ner Mr-Waldo's.
Attempt to Land Arms and Ammunition
Thwarted and Sir Roger Casement
Was Captured, Says British
Announcement.
Im.iii. April 25.- Sir Roger Casement
has licen captured from a German ship
which attempted to land arms in Ire
land and was sunk. This oliicial an
iK uiii-f infiit wa ina'Ie last nig! t.
"During the fM-riini Ix tween the after
noon of April 20 and the forenoon of
April 21 sn attempt 1j land arms and
ammunition in lrchind made by a
vese under the guise of a neutral lm r
cbant ship, but which in realty was a
German auxiliary, in conjunction with a
(erman submarine.
"The auxiliary Mnk and a numlier of
i-ners mire nis!?. among-! whom was;
lon-'er Casement." j
Perhaps Because He Was Dosed with
Veronal.
Burlington, April 25. A man""who has
been known in this vicinity as White,
nd who has claimed when visiting here
fore that be had charge of men who
ere in the business of taking orders
for enlarging pictures, was found at the
mon station yesterday morning in a
semi-conscious condition, the result of
taking an ov.:riiose of veronal, which is
used to some extent as a sleeping po
tion. He was in a bad condition when
the police ambulance waa telephoned for
and was taken to the police office, where
Dr. F. W. Baylies attended him, loiter
he was taken to Pitcher's hotel, where it
will take two or three days for him to
sleep off the effects of the drug.
White seemed partially to realize what
was going on alsuit him and at first said
his name waa L. !. White, later I. .1.
Meek, later L. S. White and later L. S.
Meek. Finally he said his name wa
Swart 7.. In his rambling talk be told the
police that he had taken numerous tab
lets of veronal which when figured up
were found to have contained 15 grains
of that drug. Veronal is not included in
t tie federal law which prohibits sale of
morphine, opium, cocaine, etc. The man
appeared to realize his condition and had
attempted to walk it off. He telegraphed
to his sister for money and an order
was received at the Western Union office
f..r twenty dollarr.
He was dressed fairly well and bad
with him two suit cases in which were
other clothes. He gave his home as
Hridgeport, Conn., and said that that
was where he Ixuight the ronal. He
alsn claimed to have had about fiftv dol
lars taken from him while on the way
here, but his condition would not war
rant that he knew what be was talking
about.
WOULDN'T GIVE UP PAPERS.
Attorney General Gregory Advises State
Department on Von Igel Seizure.
Washington, D. C, April 25 The state
department yesterday received from At
torney General Gregory advice against
giving to Ambassador Bernstorff the
papers seized from Wolf Von Igel, sec
retary to Captain Von Papen:
Jlie recommendation is not final, it is
said." Gregory has offered to subordinate
his opinion to any "larger question," but
the attorney general and officers under
him are said to be opposed to being ham-
ered in any way by making use of the
papers.
that tne state department is viewing
the situation growing out of the seizure
with added seriousness was admitted.
MONTPELIER
The e.nnn tts. f.f t' e L. A.. A. O. II..
wish it linier-to ttjt only th n!-!n
ohm w 1m tok part in U;e JsV i-f
are intitc to (tr cornphmcn
Smile"
tarv cUn ! I riv n in K. f ". 11)
s!a.-iay nsjrrt! Th" younger t were
nitcrta .ncJ revntlv.
r Rojer Casement bffore the out-
f. t .j',re.k of th European war wa in the
;i.niin consular wMn-e, navir.j neia
jM in lVrtiurne. Wf-t Africa, the
icicn Fre Slate, Hs.ti, n I iu!rg
and Brazil.
In November, ITH, it wa rrporGd
C-at Sir K-'grr. w ho wa !! trader of
the ofrt.st faction in lrlanL had pn
t'i rerl.a and conferral with the Ikt-
MAY INCREASE SHIP QUOTA.
Naval Appropriation Bill Has Been
Drafted By Sub-Commit tee.
Washington. I). ('.. April 2.V A draft
of the naval appropriation hill, the sec
ond of the administration' Vrrat pre-
wre1ncs measure, wa reported by a
suh committee ieterdar t- the House
naal mm mil t1. which next Thursday
will bf ir n coii-Mcration of ti e construc
tion seition.
Clerk F. S. Piatt is Holding Naturaliza
tion Court.
Clerk Fred S. Piatt of Rutland ar
rived in the city this morning and this
afternoon is conducting a session of na
turalization court in the I'nited States
court room in the federal building for
the purpose of granting first papers and
receiving applicants for the seconds. A
number of applicants appeared at tho
court room this forenoon and bv even
ing it is expected that a large number
will have taken steps toward becoming
American citizens.
Eastern avenue, the highway leading
from State street to Court street on land
belonging to the state, has been closed
to traffic, men engaged in preparing for
the laying ot the Inundation for the new
building having boarded up each end
of the road.
Mrs. F'red J. Robar and daughter,
l hyllis, of JIurlington, arrived in the
city last evening for a visit with the
former s mother. Mrs. Edw in Hiit hins.
Miss Clara Williams returned las
evening to i'roetor, where she la em
ployed in the office of the Vermont Mar
ble company, after a several days' visit
in toe city with friends.
In probate court to-day, Samuel W.
Benjamin settled his accounts as ad
ministrator, de bonis non, of the estate
Bramtree Station Wa Robbed.
r.raintrc April 2.V The Crnirel Ver
mont raur'-ad ptatmn hre m robbed
!at nizht, four dollar bating )- n tsV
'n from th '-": drwr hr a r .', r who
gairwsi enlran.-e lr hrraliri-r a window in
Eri Whitcomb of Marshfield was
among the business visitors in the city
to-day.
A large oak case to be used for firing
railroad timetables has been placed in
he lobby at Hotel Barre.
O. E. Xelson has returned to his home
n Worcester, after passing several days
n the city on business.
Mis Alice Clancy returned to her home
Xorthfield last night, after visiting
friends in Barre and Montpelier for a
few dnvs.
Miss Pauline Onnon, who has been
isiting Misa Kathleen Miles of West
street for a few days, returned this
morning to her home in Burlington.
Mr. and Mrs. Onn L. Hughes are in
Burlington, where they were called to at-
end the funeral of Mrs. Hughes' brother,
whose death occurred in Jsew lork.
Mrs. Linus Wortben. aped 84 years,
who lives alone at the Worthen farm in
arre Town, was found unconscious on
the floor yesterday afternoon and was
brought to the City hospital for treat
ment.
Misa Marion Murray, who has been
spending several days at the home of
Mrs. William Brown of Grant avenue
and with other friends in Barre and vi
cinity, has returned to her home in Provi
dence, R. I.
Harry Levin, who has been passing a
vacation of ten days with his parent,
Mr. and Mrs. Myer S. Levin of Mer
chant street, returned this morning to
Syracuse, X Y., where he is attending
college.
Around six hundred granitecuttera
gathered in tho opera house last night
for the first meeting of the local since
the spring of 1915. It was called as
a regular meeting anu little business
othdr than that of a routine "character
was transacted.
A deed was registered yesterday trans
ferring the farm in Williamstown owner
by the estate of David M. Smith to
W. J. Clapp of Washington street, the
title being given bv Alvin M. Smith, ad
ministrator of the estate. The farm con
sist-s of 140 acres, includes a house, bams
and outbuildings and is located on th
west hill. Judge CIspp purchases th
property for the purpose of developing
a fine timber tract on the farm.
A woman appeared at police headquar
tors last night with a blackened eve and
a deep gash running across her forehea
and told the officers that she had emerged
second best in a fracas w ith her husband.
It was .alleged by the complainant that
the man attacked her in their home on
Willey street, where she was forced into
window with such violence that the
window frame, falling, indicted a painful
wound on the scalp. Grand Juror W ll
liam W'ishart was asked to investigate
the complaint.
The license commissioners met in the
council chamber at city hall last evening
and formally awarded the licenses to the
applicants designated at the meeting Fri
day night. To those applicants who have
not received the license issued by the
board as soon as received from the see
retary of state, it is announced that the
same may be procured from the city
clerk. The only transfers considered by
the commissioners were those which were
advertised in the newspaper Saturday.
Neither of the two remaining applicants
whose locations were the same as others,
applied for transfers.
When the board of aldermen meet at
city hall to-night, it is possible that the
much mooted question of depositing tne
sinking fund will x reconsidered, al
Groton, April 25. While temnnrarl'
deranged because of illness, Walter vc
fcuieu nmiseii io-aay, sending a
of shot into his left breast. 1
early part of the winter he v at
tack of the grip and bad not'; recov.
ered from the effects, being in a despond
ent frame of mind. The members of his
family had, of course, noticed his mental
depression but they had no ansnie.ion. ifc
13 said, that he intended to take his life.
Ho left the house shortly before 0
o'clock this morning, taking a shotgun,
with him. He went to the garden back
of the barn and, putting the muzzle of
the weapon against his heart, pulled tha
trigger. The members of hi family, as
well as some of the neighbors, heard thn
report and, rushing to the garden, found
Mr, Dean lying on the ground with a,
terrible wound in the breast. H w
just alive and lived but a few seconds
after their arrival. No reason is known
for his act except desoondenev over his
health. His family relations are said tn
have been pleasant. He leaves his wifn
and two children, Mary, aged 15 years,
and Harvey,, aged 12 years; also his
mother, who is in advanced Tears and
who resided with her son. The latter
was 60 years old.
Mr. Dean resided for 15 years on a.
farm in the north part of the town.' and
last fall he sold that place and moved
to this village. Later he bought a large
farm in Bath, X. II., and he had partially
completed moving his household goods to
that place when he killed himself to-dav.
The arrangements for the funeral hav
not been completed.
N. E, 0. P. RECEPTION.
though numerous routine matter are to
oe discussed orrore anv time can is- or
Was Held in Burlington Prior to SUta
Convention Opening. .
Burlington, April 25. A reception waa
given by Vermont lodge, Xo. 36, New
England Order of Protection, of this city
at the rooms of the Order of Eastern
Star in the Masonic temple last evening
for the members of Vermont lodge and
visiting delegates to the meeting of the
grand lodge which opened at 9 o'clock
this morning. There was a good at
tendance at the reception and entertain
ment, among the more noted guests be
ing F. I). Fillmore of Bennington, grand
warden of the grand lodge of Vermont,
and F. D. Willis, supreme warden of
the supreme -lodge of Xew England. Tho
supreme secretary and treasurer were ex
pected to be present at to-day's meeting.
1 he following program waa given. E.
W". Cranncll presiding: Piano solo, Miss
Ruth Buxton; address of welcome, J.
D. Tousley, warden of Vermont lodge;
response, t. V. tillmore, grand warden;
song, Jasper Tousley, with Miss Cilley
at the piano; reading, Mrs. John Piper;
address. Supreme W'arden Willis; pian3
solo, Miss Buxton; song Mr. Tousley;
reading, Mrs. Piper. Following the pro
gram refreshments were served and a
social hour enjoyed.
RECEIVED STOLEN GOODS.
Must Pay $100 Fine and Was Put on
Probation as to Prison. Term.
St. Albans, April 25. When Franklin
county court convened yesterday after
noon, the Hon. Leighton P. Slack of St.
Johnsbury presiding, after a recess since
March 30, Jack Tress pleaded not guilty
to an information filed by State's Attor
ney S. S. Cushing charging him with re
viving stolen goods in connection witn
the larceny of hides from the Central
Vermont Railway company last Novem
ber. After a consultation the respond
ent entered a plea of guilty and was sen
tenced to pay a fine of $100 and serve no
less than a year and a half nor mora
than two years at hard labor in the state,
prison. ' The latter part of the sentence
was suspended. After the jury had been
drawn those not serving on tha panel
were excused for the term.
TALK OF THE TOWN
iiia iaprial autbonli-s, inlctiva, the rear of the build g.
I). Backus of Waterhurv wa. arwont.-i vot a resumption of the d-bate on
..i,;..:., ..f !.- V :u;. the fund. Probablv the aldcrmamc com-
7 ". ' ' "' """"' - ' n,itte of the whole will report on it
muck u, tare oi .viontpener. I. ... .. ... ...
v. -I i . i . li.. i i- I investigation of the r.t street exten-
Funeral services for (narles W. Guern-1 - 5 ... ..,..). u. v
.u. .l.r. A t j... nmrwRi,. ism. .i
, now- i " . " "iui ll'l .iiunimt lilt, I II- I , , . , , ..,,, Mill
,, .,. , ..I 111 ia V. anil l lir poric- n-iiiir......
mg. win oe neia at nis late nome. o. H it made in prmid-
Loomis street, at 2.-30 o clock to mr- ! ., ' . . . . ith, ,,,
row allernoon. i . . '. . . . i,.r i. nnt ,!,
Superintendent of School Sherburn C. k...i. ... .nLt out a real session, the
Hutchinson left this forenoon tor liur- ,,- lri,)lc , a ,liseuinn
lington and other points on the west U;r the w ater meters
Among the visitors in the ci!v xester
,ne rcmama ... r. r.inora 1,. , Uv th fkwinR p.
H,.U-h,non, w-fe of Frank F; Hutch...- . K. Mav. M, Flh-n May and
on of this city whose death occurred M,v ot Ma'r.hfieM. P. T. Franklin
last week, arrived in the city on an early nf M johnsburv. .1. R. R-cd of Burling
morning train. The body , xrn to ; ,n M M Yn,mg of ! rlean. A. K. rrk
Yolholm's undertaking rooms and later nf v,kki!!, X. V., E. G. Mackav of
t. Worcester, whrre burial was rtu..!ski,(,i. I n J. i;. Ihomt.n of
committal service Uemjr hcUI. A broth- ' Rurlmctnn. W. H. K'xkwcll of I"utc! l. ' visit to New York.
er. Horace L. Brady, and Mr. Hufhinson. i .-. jf. Mwer of P.iirhngt'Mi. C. P. .Among the Wal p-rle who attended
accompanied the lly from Mr iro-e, i y larv of St. Alhan. W. H. Mnna and ' the . E. O. P. fran l Voify nwting in
Ma., where the funeral was brlj M-m If. f. "hecbr of Hurlincton, O. !. Trary j Burlmcton today were Mr. .arle
lay. ,f Chclw. Mis I.yle iracy ff r-t-m, I skmwr. Mr. Linme Steven, Mr. Arch
The condition of far! Iload'ey. !m K. H. Cutting of AttMsro. Ma-.. Mr. j Taft. Mr. C. S. wr of F-t Barre.
un irrwent an operation fr artTTii c t and Mrs. 1 ' rvnnev of l.o. k H ! Mr. i ' -n f-TnM of Crn tert'V
at Heat n hospital Saturday, continues n. Me., and It. Sxh'sfer of ooiIm iiier' I -arV Sjssai. F. G. Howland and H. W.
t iarprove. X. 1L , Kott. ...
Mrs. George Curtis of Berlin was at
visitor in the city to-day.
Fred Willard of the Fast Montpelier
road was a business visitor in Burling
ton to-day.
Mrs. II. J. LaRoe of W ellingtnn street
returned yesterday from a week-end vis
it in Burlington.
Marv E. Weafer. little daughter or
Mr. and Mrs. .IWpli E. Weafer of East
treet. is quite erioiily ill.
T. .1. Beach returned SunrMT to hi
work in St. Alhan after spending a fer
davs with his family in this city.
Mr. D. C Jarvia and daughter. STlvia,
f Orange street returned yestarday from
week-end visit with relatives in liur-
ircton.
Th voung ladies of tha Sodality of
he Hlessed Virgin are requested to mwt
th vestry of St. Monica s church at 7
'clock this evening.
Some of the art exhibits displared it
How land ball lat w eek under the auw
pice of the Barr Woman" club are t"
jw wn in B. W. Hooker A Co.'s window.
I. L. I. Martin returned yesterday
from a wefk'a visit to New York an!
Miildb-town, Conn. Hi son. Raymond
Martin, who i attendinff role at Mid-
dhtown. acroninanii-d Dr. Martin on bi
