FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGiT
EXTRA
icuenm
X
c
PHIOJ3 ONUJ OfllBl
I
W VOli. 1I.-NO. 135
PHILADELPHIA, tfKIDAY, ITEBRUAltr 18, llfi.
CortmniiT. 11)1(1, si hie Pcuu emk CoxrAMt.
-yTSjfiO QfC3r's?j T T j-;grTKST1" rfeVpl.Hy ,
H
I
U. S. INSISTS GERMANS KEEP
PLEDGES IN LUSITANIA CAS
DESPITE ARMED LINER EDICT
r Fu r t h e r Negotiations
Held Up Pending:
Outcome of Subma
rine Campaign
Efforts of Berlin Clique Iluin-
per Von Bcrnstorll in Obtain
ing Concessions Demanded
by Secretary Lansing at
Conference
W The United States will not ask Ger-
K" many to postpone its Minmnrinc Cain
s' nalen against tinned liners, wiucn ner-
K lln nasi announced will go Into effect
K. r.i, i tint will tntv iitwiti llin
a On iuu ., '. ..... . -.., -
Ml -,A mnrln III till' Lllsltailill HOtc.
W a insist that they bo observed.
jtl Should Gcrmnny attack a liner armed
ft". fr lofpnse. ns nrovldnd for by Inter.
BfM .. ., ...... .....t lluta .In ImIii; tn i.n
; national lll, tutu I..IU" u" ...J....T . ....
American citizen, tlio United States
W must tako nctlon. In tlio meantime,
h Washington will cniitlnuu its cfiorts
,-.' to Induce tlio rmtcmo lilies in uisariii
, merchant ships.
' . .. .. n .... m .. n 1in4...nn.. I)tnu ilnnT
At a CUlUfll lllii- iv;v 1.V--11 J v--.T...ifc
Wilson and Secretary Lansing today
t was decided to ask Great Britain
to dcflno Its nttltudo In regard to armed
merchant ships.
That Germany lias mndo great prep
aration's for tlio revival of lier subma
rine campaign is rovcaled by dis
patches from Geneva, stntlng that 100
new U-boats of immense slzo havo Just
been compacted.
Recent reports from Germany said
that the shipyards there wero able to
complete a submarine In three months'
time, and although 100 submarines Is
a largo addition to the Kaiser tlcets, It
Is possible- that during tho last year
by rush work at several plants they
wero able to do this.
Concerted effort on tho part of n
certain political clique, beaded :y
Doctor Rolf, the German Colonial Sec
retary, to discredit Ambassador von
Bernstorff by opposing bis requests for
concessions to tlio United States, Is
reported from Scandinavian sources.
Senator Lodge, of Massachusetts, and
I Senator Sterling, of South Dakota. In
speeches In the Senate today, sounded
warning that tlio UnUed StSLguj
Co drawn Into war If It hUuius !y ucr-
Mmf nimin1 ItitntiHnn nf fnrnptlnlnir
tlttmtt u'lfnltin1 ntmm1 nnPIIIV TllfP-
f chant ships after February 20.
"Tho German Admiralty's Intention."
Senator Lodgo said, "Is revolting to
every Instinct of humanity, to overy
Kprlnclplo of law and justice."
Br LONDON, Feb. IS.
Court Intrlsuo at Herlln has arisen to
f Mako more serious tho situation between
tho United States and Germany. Tlio In
formation concerning tho Inner jealousies
of tho Berlin court comes in a dispatch
Vto tho London Times from a Scandinavian
f correspondent.
Tho correspondent says mat uoctor
Solf, the Colonial Secretary, has ambition
to succeed to tho Foreign Ofllco after tlio
i war. Ho fluds In Count J. H. von Ueru-
ilorlT. tlio ucrman Ainoassauor at vt asn-
1 1ngton. his rbief rival.
Out of this situation tho dimctiltlcs of
Continued on Toco I'our, Column Two
Cold Wnvo Coming-
Two storm warnings wero Issued by
the Government today, informing ship
pers of a northwest storm from Capo
Henry to Boston, nnd of n northeast
itorm north of Boston. The northwestbr
) now over the Great Lakes, moving
eastward and southeastward.
A cold wave, with temperatures below
freezing, was predicted today at the
Weather Bureau.
The forecast Is unsettled, with probably
fain tonight; fair and much colder to
morrow. Tha lowest temperature will
tome In the carlv morning, when tho mer-
itury Is expected to go ns low as "0 dc
ipees. Tlio gentle, variable winds are
.veering toward the northwest and arc be
tomlng stronger.
I THE WEATHER
I' The coming, not very many days off
SBoif, of the season when one goes wlth
out an overcoat. Is a blessing not un-
roea with pain. I' or an overcoat covers
multitude of well, :ut It this way,
yurtaliy. An overcoat tends to hide nnd
condone the fact that many of us have
bllt nnn uiit. -. ...... U.- ........ .. .l...n ..
C" ",w -"iv I' uuinun, .null) u unto juu
Ithat Is, we) p ,t on an overcoat when we
uuineea to, without reasoning out why.
J.acoincloi)3ly we Beek protection not only
-Kalnst an unexpected chill, but also
JWinat a subtle feeling Hint strnngers In
! streets will guess tho secreta of our
: carelessness, or slovenliness, or genteel
Poverty, More probably .slovenliness,
JlOWOVer. fnm. fAallt- innr man haua in ViftVA
JVfo suits to hide the fact that they ura
mja the springtime, l( one can go Jauntily
-.u6 m a new sun, unovercoaieu, win
LOUT heart wnrma . Ih. alni'anlu nnsa nt
P-U they usually have high thoughts nnd
Pgye vanity Mid material aggression.
l- TO DA HnVnnlv la nt Iftnctt tt ha .rtlra.'n.l-
ir . a-talnst the error of waxing one's
i-.iM.acne,
K PUtcaJAi3T
t. ?,fr Philadelphia and vicinity Un
Re , '"; w,t' wabably rain tonight;
fcr ruay jair ana much colaer; gen'
F'W variable winds becomina northwest
K'W itrong late tonight and Satur-
W'h. , . ..
vr aeiaw ste page 17,
LOST AND FOUND
iCSESl'PVn. .... Z. 7.. --. .-.
i i!iimV rin UM, piaiinum una uoiu
Sn 'I-Jf?'1" diamond: number Uaipe4 on
i VSttJ?, ..""l reward. H. J. llerta,
!a?1,r1. ! below Cfawtuut. .
a! i!?" ttho --- th photorttha from
TBi,.'at w,n of lndpndenc Hall on
iutJz oraltnt will roturn tarn Immt-
$si th ee'lm w"' not " '!
ivi?" ' '"'IE pUtlnum ettln"Tot
"lie4av t.fning la ur near I!IU- u-Klrut
it JL wr ii rnurua to J B. C.Uwsll
n - 11 J i hl.lii.it . t
- -- - ".'
c lot una jfuuad Ada ou i'nj. IT
Germans Have 100 New
Submarines Heady
London, Kcb. 18. It is reported
hero in dispatches from Geneva
that Germany 1ms built 100 sub
marines of a new and larger typo
and is prcpnrini; to renew her sub
marine campaign with increased
vigor. It is reported Unit these
U-boats were virtually submersible
monitors nnd carry jjuns of a
heavy calibre in addition to a bat
tery of torpedo tubes.
SENATORS WARN
OF WAR IF U. S.
BACKSU-BOATS
Lodge and Sterling See
Peril in Attacking Armed
Merchant Ships
LIVELY DEBATE FOLLOWS
WASHINGTON', Kcb. lS.-Solomn warn
ings that the United Stated may bo drawn
Into tho war If it acquiesces In tlio CSer
man Admiralty's newly announced sub
marine imlley wero delivered on tho Sen
ate lloor today by Senator Lodge, of .Mns
saoliusetts, ranking Republican member
of tho Foreign Relations Committee, and
Senator Sterling, of South Dakota.
Senator Lodge urged tho Administration
to "stand llrm In Us determination to up
hold tho principle of tho right of mer
chantmen to arm for defensive purposes."
Senator Sterling chargod that the new
ueiiniin submarine policy was "encour
aged. If not Invited, by the memorandum
of our Stato Department to tho Kntciitu
Towers."
Sharp debate on tho floor of tbe Scant"
followed the attacks on the Administra
tion's foreign policy by tho two Senators.
Senator Thomas rend Into tho record
tho more recent reports that no upproval
of attacks on armed skips was Intended.
Ilo then charged the attacks had been
mndo for political effect anil not based
on facts or a sincere desire to better tho
nation's International relations.
Tho German Admiralty's avowed Inten
tion to torpedo without warning armed
enemy morcliunt vessels after February
20 is "revolting to every Instinct of hu
manity, to every principle of lnw and Jus
tice," Senator Lodgo declared.
. - "I cannoUholloya. UiafcMhoiiAlmi!ila.rn
tlon thinks for a moment of altering tlio
well-defined position which It took nt tho
:utflct of tho Kuropean war, and I bcllovo
that It mii!t stand as firmly on this ques
tion ns It has on tho question of em
bargo," continued tho Massachusetts Sen
ator. "Should it act otlicnviso It would accept
a humiliation and incur a danger of war,
from which oven tho boldest and the most
Continued mi I'iiko 1'mir, Column I'our
'GET-RfCHQUICirLURE
WARNED OF IN SPEECH
ON LEGITIMATE PROFIT
Frcas B. Snyder, Banker, Ex
poses Wildcat Schemes in
Address at Business Sci
ence Club Luncheon
CLASSES OF INTERESTS
Money Interest Scale
' and Its Significance
This classification of interest on
investment accounts is made, by
Freas B. Snyder, banker:
Five per cent, on investment a
safe, certain return on the money.
Six per cent, rate on money in
vested safe, but not so certain.
Seven per cent., as a general
rule, puts investment in class with
slightly risky.
Eight per cent, is speculative in
vesting nnd risky.
Nine per cent, a plain gamble.
Ten per cent, usually gained only
at cost of worry nnd sleepless
nights.
How to stay oft the "get-rlch-qulck, easy
mark" list was explained to-day to mem
bers of the Business Science Club at the
weekly luncheon at tho St. James Hotel,
by Freas H. Snyder, assistant cashier of
tho First National Bank of Philadelphia.
"Ear Marks of a Wild Cat Scheme
was what Mr. Snyder called his advice.
Ho laid down rules for Investment and
told why risks Increase with Interest rates,
and where the points of danger begin.
"Look out." said Mr. Snyder, "when
the proposition offers big returns on your
money. Have a care If It claims a
monopoly In Its field as a safeguard for
Investors. Think twice should the pros,
pectus declare no salemen are needed and
operating expenses are negligible.
"Beware of the too-florid, gold-tinted
language of the prospectus." he continued.
"Watch tho company that wants to put
Its stock In the hands of all classes.
Look out U tho company wants to 'beat
tig business' By leaving out the bank
ers "
sir Snyder recalled tho assertion that
a member of a well-known fish variety
Is bom every minute. "More often Its
twins." he said, "and there's always a
Get-Blch-Qulck-Walllngford' pulling hla
Continued on Ve TUree, Column Turee
Two Automobiles Stolen
A I1S85 automobile belonging to Norman
S Sherwood, a real state broker. 0M716
Lelner street, Frankford, was taken from
nf ttmt It his ottlces. at HU Walnut
Street, last night, according to a report
to the police today. Another machine,
valued at 11000. was stolen In front of
the bom of the owner. KarounJ II. P.
Bead, of fl "for road-
I -&. mm
1 l
BOYS DIE IN DAltlJY CHEEK
John Carpenter, 8 yenrs old, of
Clifton Heights (below), and" An
drew Sural), of Oak View, who
broke through the ice and drown
ed, the father of Andrew Sural)
nlso losing- his life in an cllfort
to rescue them.
FATHER DIES FOR SON,
SON DIES FOR FATHER,
ON TREACHEROUS ICE
Mill Laborer Rescues Child,
Then Himself Drowns as Boy
Leaps Hack Into
Darby Creek
COMPANION ALSO LOST
A father gave his llfo for his smi In
the ley wntei'H nf Darby Creek; the llttlo
boy, safe on shore, saw bis futher drown
ing, nnd without incnun of helping tho
man, leaped In iirulii and died with him.
Anhth'-r boy died with them. This Is I bo
bitter memory of a score if porsomt who
saw the tragedy yesterday afternoon nt
Clifton Heights.
. -Androw-Surub "wis.ln.C)iiIll laborer of
"Oak View. Ho hail worked hard all day
yesterday. Before going homo to suppor
ho went to tho creek to seo his boy nt
play. The boy, ID years old, was skating
with his friend, John Carpenter. 8 yenrs
old, of Clifton Heights. The latter was
the son of a trolley ear conductor.
With tho dash anil vigor of boys used
to nn outdoor life the playmates went
llylng about tbe tblu Ice of tlio creek
shouting to each other and playing "lag."
Tlio father of Andrew, tired out with tho
day's toll, sat down on the bank to watch
them. Ho woro heavy rubber boots. Ho
was a man of 10, of strong build mid with
tho muscles of one trained in tho school
of manual labor.
Tho man looked about the clear, still
landscape enjoying tho last of tlio sunset
glow. Ho heard the voice of bis son
crying out to his companion "I daro you
to!" Ho looked up quickly; what wero
tho lads going to do? And a moment
later the Carpenter boy cried back that
bo accepted the dure. Sural saw them
stint to play "tlckley bender," a game
In which olio dares his opponent to skate
across thin ieo; when ho has followed
suit, tho other dares him to ska to over
still thinner Ice, nnd tho ono who dares
tn skato over tho thinnest Ice, without
tho other daring to follow, wins.
Tho man on tho bank rose In nlarm as
ho saw tho nature of the game. But.
ho thought, the creek Is not deep enough
to drown In, Then ho saw tho boya plunge
through the Ico nnd disappear In a spneo
of clear water that a moment before had
been Ico so thin as merely to continue
tho surfnee.
Aa tho .boys sank In, the broken Ice,
Continued oil I'ngo Twfc, Column Vimr
Judge Willson on the Bench
Ttobert N. Wlllson, former president
Judge of Court of Common 1'lens No. i,
occupied a scat on the bench with Judgo
Audenrlecl In Boom Q today, ami evinced
ns keen nn Interest as over In tho trial
of tho different damages, cases. Judge
Wlllson, who Is now In his 77th year, has
good health and faculties, except his im
paired vision. Sinco his retirement from
actual judicial services tho noted Jurist
still keeps in touch with legal procedure
by frequent visits to his old court.
DENIES COWARDICE
IN PARK DROWNING
Women's Charges Start Investi
gation Into Death of Mor
ris Brodsky
Charges of covnrdlce made against two
Park guards by several women automo
blllsts la connection with tho drowning
ot 9-year-old Morris Brodsky, of S52
North Patton street, are being investi
gated today by Captain Duncan, of the
Park guards,
The names of wltnoss are being sought
by Captain Duncan, who expressed his
confluence In the guards, Patrick J. Corr
and Thomas I'. Dollarq.
''I have conclusive proof that the men
did enter Uie water," ul4 Csntaln. Dun
can, '"phey wore exhausted uud soaking
wet when they were brought to -the guard
house in an automobile. . According to
their written report, the chauffeur, who.
It wa said, was the only person to enter
thofiwater, was nirawn irwiuuwi uy mem,
when he became numbed by tho cold
water.
Captain Punoan praised Corr. especially
for hla knowledge of water and his abil
ity to gwlm.
"Corr 1 the man who dived from the
Pennsylvania Railroad biidge st Pvlalr
two years ago and uavid three men from
drowning. ' said Major Uarilu, kecreury
of the Purk Cemmbjsion.
FALL OF ERZERUM TO ADD
RUMANIANS TO ALLIES; BIG
SPRING OFFENSIVE IN BALKANS
Fall of Erzcrnm to Bring
Rumania Into the War
HOME, Feb. 18. The urcat lUis
sian victory in the Caucasus 1ms
decided wavering Rumania to en
ter the war on the side of tho
Entente Allies. According to ad
vices received here u great of
fensive in the Rnlkans is scheduled
for the early spring. In this Rus
sia will co-operate with the Anglo
French from Salonicu. Concentra
tion of hostile armies about Ru
mania already is under way.
HANS SCHMIDT
DIES FOR MURDER
OF SWEETHEART
Wan Who Killed Anna Au-
muller Electrocuted at
Sing Sing
MET HIS DEATH BRAVELY
OSStXIXCl, X. Y.. Feb. IS. Hans
Schmidt Is dead. Tho man who mur
dered his sweetheart. Anna Auniuller, was
put to death In tho electric chair ill Slug
Sing prison shortly before B o'clock this
morning. To the very last ho protested
Ills Innocence.
"I send a hearty good-by to my mother.
My hist thought Is of her. Ciood-by, all
friends."
Those wero Schmidt's last words. Ho
was one of the bravest men ever executed
In the ol-etrle chair. With a llrm step
we walked to bis death. On Ills way tn
the chair he asked forgiveness; from all
ho had "olTendrd or scandalized" and In
turn forgave all who bad offended him.
Scarcely bail ho repeated his hist words
when Fre'd Ditnier. principal keeper at tho
prison, who wns In cbnrgo of the execu
tion, due to tho absence of Warden Kirch
wey, gave tho signal to the electrician.
There was a hissing sound, linns
Schmidt's body suddenly stiffened and
strnined forward against tho straps that
held him tn tbe chair.
Three shocks were nccessnry. The first
current was turned on nt r:."i2 o'clock.
For 1 minute and 12 seconds tho elec
tricity surged through Schmidt's body.
Then the current was turned oft. To till
npueaianeeft tho'itlnyei wan 'dead?- Jut;'
after it' hasty examination by '.Hoctor
Mcreness, tho prison physlclnn. tho cur
rent was again turned on tills tlmo for
six seconds.
After a second examination a third
shock was given, lasting llvo seconds.
Doctor Mcreness then pronounced Schmidt
dead.
It was liiHO o'clock when tlio 17 wit
nesses doctors and newspapermen
assembled in the olllre of Warden Klrcli
woy; lOlcvcu minutes later principal
Keeper Dorner led the march to tho death
chamber. Silently tho witnesses took
their seats. Five minutes passed in omin
ous silence. Suddenly u red door on tho
right of the chamber was thrown open
and from It Ihsued tho volco of Hans
Schmidt. Ho was calling good-by to hla
fellow prisoners In a loud volco. Thcro
wero la Inmates in tho death house.
"Oood-by, everybody; good-by, all. espe
cially Watson," were tho words that
floated through tho llttlo donr Into tho
death chamber. WatBon will bo the next
Inmate of tho death houso to bo executed.
Schmidt then stepped through tho door
Conllnurd nn I'nBt SU. Column Two
"HAD MAN" HELD FOR TRIAL
Tolice Accuso Him of Robbing a
Downtown Druggist
James Mason, 16 yenrs old, of South
Opal street, who Is referred to by the
police as tho "bad man with a knife."
was committed to prison today by Magis
trate Beaton at tho Central rolleo Sta
tion, when Dr. 'William Droibelbls, a
phnrninclst, Idcntllled Mason as tho man
who held him up with a revolver In his
drug store at -Oth and orter streets on
Tuesday .night.
Although tho prisoner asserts he had
nothing to do with the robbory, tho po
lice are confident that they hnve not made
a mistake, as a lettor received yoster
day, signed "A Drug Fiend," and men
tioning details of the holdup, Is In hand
writing similar to that of Mason.
Doctor Drelbelbls, In telling of tho rob
bery todny, said Mason escaped from him
and his brother after a fray In which the
man had beep overcome. Mason was ar
rested later on a dump nt Broad street
and Pennsylvania avenue.
u
E' 0RMAI ASSICURAT0
Con l'Entrata in Campagna
della Rumania gli Alleati At-
taccheranno da Salonicco
Telegramm) da Roma dlcono che la Ru
mania sta per Intervenlre nella guerra a
flanco degll alleatU Ncll'Utesso momento
che la Rumania dlchlarera' la guerra gli
alleati tnlzleranno la loro offensive, da
Salonicco. La cadutu, dl Krzerum ha nvuto
II suo buon effetto sul governo rutueno.
Net circoll umolall rumen! si dice che net
prosslmo mese dl marzo si avia' un forte
concentramento dl truppe ruaso nella
Bessarabia alio scopo dl permettere al
rumenl dl attaccare la Bulgaria. Truppe
montencgrlne, serbe cd albanesl vengono
rapldamente trasforlte a Salonicco per
farle parteclpare alia grande offenslva,
11 generate Caqoma lia annunciate che
le fottw Itallano operant! sul Monte Horn,
bon hanno contrattaccato un reffglmemo
auatriaco che tentava un attacco dl sor
preaa ed hanno fatto prlgloniero II com
andante del regglinento stoseo. Le batterle
Italians hanno anche rldotto al silenzlo
le artlgUerie austrlache nella zona dl
OelavU e nolle Immediate vlclnauze ill
Uorlzta. Inoltre un aeroplane Itallano ha
gettato boinbe u Nabreslna, che e' a
loche miglitt da Trieste
(Legere in 6a paglna le ultlme e plu'
detiagllate notuie nulla, guerra, in luli-
Bucharest Hesitation
Past, According to
Advices From Rome.
Ready for War
Victorious Slav Army Driving
on Turkish Black Sea Base of
Trebizontl Hostile Forces
Gather for Grand Clash.
Teutons Entrench in Bul
garia The moral effect of the capture nf
Krzeruni by Oram! Dultn Nicholas linn
been tn turn litimniitii inward Hie cause
of the Allies. Heports fruin Itoiue
state that the Inst of the Balkan king
doms tn enter the war Is ready to inuki'i
the plunge shortly. A grand offensive
will open in March to awe-op tho Teu
tons from tho Itulkuns. Hussln Is pre
paring to concentrate u vast force In
I'essnrabla. Already the Teulona nnd
Itulgur.4 havo mussed 1100,000 men
across the KuiikiiiIhm frontier.
Tim captiiro of Krzerum with ninny
Ihousanil Turks nnd more than a thou
sand guns, followed by the announce
ment Hint Hie Franco-British forces
have overrun the Kamoriiii nnd that
the British have administered punish
ment to the riertnuiiH In Knst Africa,
taken In conjunction with the encour
nglng reports from tlio Franco-British
western front, lias inspired tho feeling
In l'nrlH, Loudon uuil Pctrogrnd that
the war hns nt last begun to turn In
favor of the Allies.
Tlio victorious Slavs t.ro advancing
on Trelilzond, the Moslem naval base
on tho Black Sea. Possession of this
Ntrnteglo port will bring Cirnnd Duke
Nicholas within !W miles of Batuiu, tho
great Itiisslan port on the Cnaplan.
Unolllelal reports .stato that the Bus
slaps havo reached Bnlburt, snmo GO
miles northwest of Krzcnini, on tho
road to Troblzond.
IID.MK, Feb. 18.
Itumanla is about to enter tho war on
tho sldo nf tho Hntcnto Allies.
Simultaneously with tho Intervention of
Bumnntn, a great offenslvo will bo un
dertnlccni by the Alllea-fram SaronJeavT-':;
Itepnrts from Biieharcst announce that
tho captiiro of Krzerum by tlio Bussliiiis
will hasten Bumanln's decision to Inter
vene at un early date.
In lluiuanlan olllclul dries It la stntcd
that during March thcro will bo a con
centration of Busisaii forces ou the lless
nrabliin frontier. Tho purpose will bo to
permit Itumanla to transfer troops to the
Bulgarian frontier.
Massing of )0,f00 Bulgnr and Teuton
Coul I'liird on I'Hgr Tour, Column One
UNDERWOOD HOBNOBS
WITH KINGS OF FINANCE
AT DINNER OF BILLIONS
Democratic Senator From Ala
bama Guest of Thomas F.
Ryan, Meeting Corporation
Heads of Country
LIKE THE GARY AFFAIR
OSCAR W. UNDERWOOD
NEW YORK, Feb. IS Oscar W. Un
derwood, United States Senator from Al
abama, was Thomas F. Ryan's guest last
night at a private dinner given In the tat
ter's home, S5S 5th avenue. Ills fellow
guesta were representatives of corpora
tions whose combine, capitalization
mounts Into the billions.
Efforts to reach Mr. Ryan proved fu
tile. . V. McGlone. secretary for Mr. Ryan,
emphatically denied that any significance
of a political character was to be at
tached to tho gathering. Rut men of
prominence tn public life and men of af
fairs In the city to whom the list ot tbe
guests was read remarked upon (he mag
nitude of the ilnanclal Interests represent
ed, and upon tho numter of ''conserva
tive" Democrats Included.
"This dinner." td Secretary Mcdlone
last night, "U, I aasure you, purely a
social affair: there U nothing unuiuaL
Mr. Ryan has simply Invited a, number
of friends to pas a. pleasant evening to
gether. There U absolutely no political
or any other Ignitteance to be attached
Continued on l'te live, Column Ouo
QUICK
FIVE OVERCOME DY GAS IN BOARDING HOUSE
Four women nnd a man were overcome by gas today in a board
ing house operated by Mrs. Mary Butcholtz, 30 years old, of 453
North Franklin street. The victims, who wero revived at the Roose
velt Hospital, were Mrs. Dutcholtz, Dorn Datt, a boarder, 21 yenrs
old; Charles Stein, 27 years old. a boarder: Ethel .Jones and Dor
othy Allen both negro women employed nB maids.
NUNS ESCAPE FROM FIRE IN CONVENT
Fifteen nuns marched quietly from the convent of the Sisters
of Perpetual Adoration, 22d and Orccn streets, when fire was stAited
by a defect in n steam pipe n the basement today. When tho
flames threatened to destroy the ehnyicl the Rev. Joseph F. O'Kecfo
pastor, and the assistant rectors, the ltcv. . A. Kcclmi, Joseph M.
Gallu and N. J. Lynch, entered the stiucture nnd removed the Blessed
Sacrament to a place of safety.
TERRIFIC STORMS RAGE OVER NORTH SEA
COPKN'IIAOKN', Feb. IS. Terrlllc storms nrc raging over the North Sea.
Shipping has been badly damaged. An unknown schooner annk off tho coast
of Norway. There Is no truce of her crew.
COAL WORKERS WIN 7 PER CENT. WAGE INCREASE
I'lTTSIU'lU'ill, Full. IS.--Nine hundred miners employed by tho Ford
Colliers Company, at Curtlsvllle, near here, havo won their demand for a
wage Increase, amounting to 7 per cent.
WOMEN SEEK ADMISSION TO NEW JERSEY BAR
TIIHNTON, Feb. IS. Four women uro nt the Htnto House today taking tho
bar examinations in the largest class Hint has ever been received at ono tlmo
In this Stnte. There are 70 cnnillilutes for counselor papers anil !)8 for httorncy-ol-law.
Tv,u of the young women want to bo attorneys. They nro Miss Lillian
K. Brick, of Piiterson, nnd Miss Kdlth W. Hosecruns. of lilnlrstown. Tho other
two ore seeking the privilege of netlng ns counselors. They uro Mrs. Mary N.
Sutton, of lied Bunk, nnd MIkm Paula l.nddy, of Newark.
HARVESTER CO. ACCUSED OF AIDING MEXICAN REBELS
WASHINGTON. Fob. IS.- I.evl Mayer, of Chicago, counsel for American
hankers who finance Yucatan henlp growers, today charged that tho Interna
tional Harvester Company furnished money for tho Ortiez-Argumedo revolution
against the Cnrranza Government In Yuen tan last year.
ROOSEVELT, IN WEST INDIES, MUM ON POLITICS
ST. THOMAS. U. W. I., Feb. 18. Colonel Theodore Roosevelt arrived
here todny on the steamship Guiana. Ho was welcomed by tho Governor's
secretary, the Incentive being away. The Colonel went on a sightseeing trip
after lunclieoii. He ileellncd to talk polities.
CHICAGO WOMEN START A TRUST COMPANY
CHICAGO. Feb. 18. Tho Women's Trust Company of America has been
Incorporated by Chicago women. It will havo a capital of $1,GOO,000 and do
a trust business, but no banking.
VARE GETS CONTRACT ON FRANKFORD "L"
William S. Twining, Director of tho Department of Transit, today approved
a contract to Kdwln H. Vnro for $LM,000. It wns signed later by Mayor Smith.
Tho eontriict willrt-for the- construction, of column foundations for thoJa,nk
foTdofijvalcd railway" on Frankford nvonu"'fro'rn't3"nKy-toDyre"8treo't. The
money crimes from tho $fi,000,000 transit loan.
NEW HAVEN OPENS FIGHT TO HOLD SHIP LINES
NKW YORK, Feb. IS. Tho New lluvontflnilwny's efforts to retain control
of its various iiteumshlp lines under tlio Panama net today camo up before
the Interstate Commerce Commission. Hearings wero begun before Judson
C. ClemcutH, u member of the Commission, In tho rooms of tho Merchants'
Association. A vast array of counsel appeared for both sides, and the Boston
Chamber of Commerce, tho Now York Merchants' Association nnd several
of tho steamship lines were represented by counsel.
ROOT WOULD BE PREMIER UNDER COLONEL, IS REPORT
WASHINGTON, Feb. IS. Kllhii Boot docs not wnnlyto bo a candidate for
President. He wnnts to bo Secretary of Stato again. Ho wnnts to bo Roose
velt's Secretary of State, at that. This statement Nvns made by a nationally
prominent politician today on his return from Now York, where ho had been
pow-wowlng with New York leaders. Tho Information fltrt well with state
ments made a few days ago by Georgo AV. Perkins nnd not heretofore pub
lished. Perkins said ho would like to seo Boot In Roosevelt's Cabinet as Sec
retary of State, and expressed tho belief that Root would like it.
KING GEORGE CONGRATULATES CZAR ON SLAV VICTORY
LONDON, Feb, IS. Hearty congratulations on tho achievement of the
Russians in capturing Krzerum, the Turkish fortress tn Armenia, were con
veyed to Cznr Nicholas today by King Georgo, England's ruler sent the
following telegram:
"My heartiest congratulations upon the splendid vachlevement of your
gallant troops In tlio enpturo of Krzerum after such hard lighting, which I
trust will huo fnr-renehlng results."
PRUSSIA TO SPEND $78,250,000 ON RAILROADS
HRRLIN. Feb. 18. The Prussian railroad bill calls for an expenditure
of $7S,L'EO,000 for tho construction of now tracks, tho completion of Baveral
lines and tho building of branch lines.
HINDU TROOPS MUTINY IN EGYPT, BERLIN SAYS
BERLIN, Feb. 18. Mutiny against England nmong tho Hindu troops In
Egypt wns reported today in a dispatch from Cairo. Tho trouble arose, says
the newspaper, when Captain Brown, nn Australian, shot two 'Mohammedan
servants for petty mistakes. Two Hindus who saw the incident killed the
captain with bayonets, and then tho whole regiment mutinied'. Twelve olllcers.
Including the regimental commander nnd a major, wero said to have been
killed. Other Hindus sent to quell the mutiny refused to lire on their brothers.
GERMAN PHOTO PATROL .JOTTED BY FRENCH AIRMAN
SALONICA, Feb. IS. After being caught photographing French lines at
Knrasull, a German aviator wus pursued by n French machine, nnd in the
battle that ensued the German machine was compelled to descend and ita
olllcer made prisoner. When tho German, ofllcer was seen makinff the photo,
graphs tho French aviator Immediately gave battle, For over a distance
of 2000 yards the two aeroplanes .fought. Tho Oerman machine was llnally
forced to descend. Its olllcer was badly wounded, but tho pilot escaped. He
was pursued by mounted men, and in the flight discarded hla clothing and
boots. The French neroplane was not injured.
ALSATIAN DIET DGLARES AGAINST FRENCH RULE
RERUN. Feb. 18. "The 'Diet of Lower Alsace has passed a resolution In
which greetings und good wishes are extended to the Alsatians lighting on
both the eastern and western fronts," soya the Overseas News Agency. "The
Diet protests expressly against French declarations that the amalgamation of
Alsace and Lorraine is tho main object of France In the war. The Diet declares
that Alsace-Lorraine in 45 years of peace has become a part of German busi
ness life and that it can only avoid harm by remaining a part of Germany,"
ALLIES COMPLETE CONQUEST OF KAMERUN
LONDON, Feb, IS. The following omclaj communication,, referring to tan
operations In the Kamerun region ot Africa, has been Issued here:
"A telogtam dated February 16 from General Doboll, French commander In
Kamerun, states that he has received information from General Aymerlea
that the French have closed the fontlar up to Ngoa and all east thereof.
The Cumpo region column has a few uilleu to traverse to close the line from
the sea. Active operations are now virtually ended, and tbe conquest of
Kamerun is complete, with the exception of the isolated position of Mom
Hill. The German commandant, Zimmerman, succeeded tn making his (scape)
Into Spanish territory."
NEWS
