HOLDS FIRST PRIZE OF KENTUCKY PRESS ASSOCIATION AS BEST EIGHT-PAGE WEEKLY IN KENTUCKY.
Your llaalth
HEALTH
"Past FtrtY ....
Is better maintained
by the nil-food
, - nourishment in
Scott's Emulsion
. 1 1 1 ,
The true food-tonic
. without alcohol,
' or harmful drufta. '
. I hi. .,
tUf Trad
Mark
on epery
fcoff or"
EmuUion
It Stands for
Purity, Richness,
ritrength.
Aut inveniam viam, aut faciam.
Volume .XXXI. Numbw 25.
LOUISA, LAWRENCE COUNTY, KENTUCKY, FEBRUARY 18, 1916.
M. F. CONLEY, Publish.
B
Sandy
news.
.if
T OF
MM NUPTIALS
TRAC'OY OCCURRED ON ASH
LAND-HUNTINGTON TRACT;.
N.
MISS JEANNE ADAMS AND
WM. McDYER THE
- PRINCIPALS.
MR.
"Ojime urban I ho clock la striking
iaht.
To a . valentine purl y and learn
' your fate.
Tell, not a soul the secret plot.
Uut come prepared to learn a lot."
Thus read (he rhymed Invlutlon to
wtut the NEWS la safe In euylng Waa
en of the ewellnst functlona that Lou
ie ha een in many a day. Wore than
two score of Invitation hnd been la
ad and precious few were not an
sae or rd In person. 'The night, after the
aloiuiely cold weather uf the past few
day a, waa quite Inviting, a nearly
full-orbed mism awung . high In the
heaven making the night almost aa
aright aa day, the tinge left by Jink
Yual permeated the air. The brll
nancy of the eveninii waa eclipsed by
ttM beoAty of the Interior of the hos
pitable home nf the hostess, Mlsa Opal'
H. Spencer, who gnve the entcrlHln
Mia.: lOHit (VimjiI, aged 23 ' 'v.irn,
daughter i f It, F. Wood, a West II. tit
liiKti'ii 'time men-hunt, wi:s shot and
ulmaot lmitii,.lly killed short h before
noon WedrieHduy on u !Ij...:,.v t.i-Ash-land
strei-t cur bi Mrs. L.,!u Defoe,
aged 26 years, wlfo of I.lnd rf Defoe,
a Huntington int-ut fuller. w.ih whom
the wife thought the younger woman
waa elopliiK to f ntlcltshurg. Mrs. De
foe alao attempted to shoot and kill her
husband, hut the Kun fallod to lire and
the revolver waa taken away from her
by her husband and other pasaengera
on the cur.
The tragedy occurred near the eaat
approach of . the Four 1'ole bridge ut
the old Miirkln dairy.
According to the abatement of Mra.
Defoe, ahe thought that her hUNliund
and the Wood girl, who la Maid to have
been unusually pretty, and with whom
Mra. Defoe claim her huaband had
been friendly alnce Christmas, had
eloped to Catlettahurg. Hhe hoarded the
car at the lower end of Huntington and
Started to overtake them. At the Mar
kln atop Defoe and the Klrl tot on the
car and ere they notlred Mra. Defoe,
the girl nut down In the aeat directly
In front of her. Before the husband
could be aeated, the wife Jumped up
pulled a revolver from a achool aatchel
BIG DEALS MADE IN DAIHRON DIES
LOUISAJHIS WEEK
8NYDER HARDWARE COMPANY THE MAN WHO KILLED VICTOR
AND J. P. GARTIN SELL
THEIR 8T0RES.
made n Loulnn for muny yeara. Sir.
which ahe had hid under her coat, and F. II. Yutea, real eatate agent, conduct-
E. E. Shannon ho purchased the
Snyder Hardware Company'a stock of
merchandtae, except the wagons, ma
chinery, and the undertaking line. Al
so, he haa bought the brick building
occupied by the Hnyder company and
the vacant 'corner lot extending back
alMiut half way of the square, on a
line with the lot which go with the
brick hulldlnga.' Thia gives Mr. Shan
nnn the entire frontage from Lnar's
etore to the corner, aa he already own
ed the third room of the brick build
ing, formerly the property of IV J.
Burchett, and will give him commod
ious quartern when , he builda on the
vacant lot. -.
Mr. Shannon haa aold hi undertakera
stock to the Snyder company.
The property will change hunda next
week. Thia la probably the InrgeHl deal
Mrs. Julia Leslie, well known and high
ly respected of like county. The
NbV H Will let the TnHniutiilai1( ,..11 , K
I,, IV., m m m . , . . . . , , . i. vui.
WIIH Hl kIIIIT V lM,,'miilntll'r of the story:
iMIO nil DUUlU Ull Columbu B. Keith, of Alva, Okla
homa, and Mrs. Julia Leslie, of Pike
vllle, were united In marriage at the
home or Ueorge B. Clay, on Thursday
evening at 6 o'clock in the presence of
Airs. Kenneth Prichard, of Ashland,
Mrs.. George p. Clay, Raymond Clay,
Agnes Clay and Mrs. B. M. Keith, of
this city. Rev. B. AJ. Keith, pastor of
f h a It- fut IX ir . k- fi . i
Durlne n .1,..... ....... o.. . j I " -"". ooum.
.T,::.; U . . ."'" DU,lua' mote relatives of the groom, was the
officiating minister. The wedding was
CAPERTON IN LOljlSA IS
8H0T.
aaeut In honor ot her friend, Mia fired at the girl, The -bullet atruck her . ed the negotiations which resulted
Jesnn Adama, of tli.s city, whose Minder the left ahoulder blude and came ' rh'.a trade. ..
aanlng merruifa to Mr. Wm. McDyer. ' out under the chin, severing the Jugu-1 ' - -
f Frankfort, was ..announced. The lar vein. The young woman fell to the GARTIN SELLS STORE
ouu oi me nignrwa roricottrn in meinour and died within a few minutes.
warmth ar.d hospitable autiosphere if, After shooting the girl, M
ano occasion; . TaV cnstcr.u a w rn by
In
morning at Red Jacket, a mining town
near Matewan, eight miles from here,
jonn uumron, a well known miner
of this section, waa shot and Instantly
killed. Clarence I-e: of Huntington.
and tluy Beavers, fit English,0 both
young men scarcely out of their teens,
are held In custody in the county jail
in mis city charged with the murder. .
The killing caused a wave of excite
ment throughout this locality, as all of
the participants .were well known lo
cally and the mysterious manner In
which the shots were fired has lent a
aeeper air to the situation.
It Is brought to light by Investiga
tion that booze seems to have started
it alL John Damron, Charles and Ben
Isaacs, in company with three women,
left Matewan about eleven o'clock on
their vay home. It being pay day
night; they had evidently indulged in
the use of Intoxicants and were feeling
their e!.':ng effects. As they were walk
ing, across the railroad bridge a short
(llHUiiice below the Red Jacket postof-
7
laving i.een i.m.le Mi- lally f. r wrested the revolver from her hand and I Urv """"""''erneM whlrh It will pay
titiM feminize pi.:lo.i of ilil.i j. . i. .1 1
enmpaiiy were mom elaborate and
tw the styii uf full ev, n.ng dress thri-i
la nam')" - otii in l'.uiw;, nmny of tite
gowtis
thia occ,:!u;i. .Miss AUmns loi Ked v
'well Iniltcd lo her l.oroiiung iown, of
fellow. Hn fur were the claims of f.mli
lon followed Unit ai.nie ! the men -re
arrayeo .n e.s.'iii g c.iiies. Thr wna
U eibuarraasinent of richns which
make It dlftlcult to tell where to be
gin and when to leave off In descrlb-
itig this aaaeniblnge.
'Mualc rose with Its voluptuous swell.
And -all Went merry aa a marriage
bell" of which Indeed It waa a forrrun
er. The piano, saxophone and the
voice, representative of the beat of
Louisa a - vocal and Instrumental tal
Mity made the rooms resonant with lb
concord of a wee t sounds. Miaa Oisil
Spencer and Mr. , Rowland Horton
vuked sweet tones from the piano and
axophona. Mlas Kate Freeae and Mr.
Umtleet sang soloa In their moat de
hghtful way which la saying much for
ttiara. Keldom, If aver, waa the mual
oal schema of a private entertainment
. In Lsiulsa quite ao well presented. This
fur the mualo.
It would not have been well for a
; dyspeptic to. have been present on this
f ; auspicious occasion for the tempting
Lad course so skillfully concocted and
tb cream, cake and coffee would have
;- tipted any on so atllrted beyond en
. -durance. Apropos of Valentin and
tbe ongagement which waa so cunning
ly announced later on. the Ice cream
and cake were molded In heart shape.
, They were served temptingly and were
I partaken of In great gusto.
The decorations were very elaborate,
. and tasteful festoons of red hearts
reached from. the chandeliers to the
,1 cirri era of the rooms, while portieres
V nf lb same typical material hung at
d i Mint and windows. Muny lovers and
PhUtpr ,,f the game "6U0" were prea
Hit and for their convenience four
rooms were uaed with the reiilalte
umber of tables, and a number of
warmly contested gamea were played
before those who engaged in them
were satisfied.
There waa also a guessing Contest
which. In the language of the times.
wa very "cute. It was after this fush
lon: Questions were aaked. auswers
r to each to end In "ring," as for In-
atanoe: ' "What hah Is In the aea?"
V Herring. A prise waa offered to the
It veoritestant who could give the moat an
.' f iwec ending In this manner and Mlas
I' Uoldle Bylngton waa succeasful. The
. ,. , i J. I . (jartln hu aold his gents fur- "' uu Beavers passed tbem. It
l loe i . . ... . . . .1 1 i,. . ,
aimed the revolver at her husband and "" " msnKensnip. wno) - v..... wmi .x e maue a remark that
imllrd the trigger, but for rnme reason 1"'"" r"rmM'1 Parti ef' ..f ho. ,n th war. luvei-hea. J by Dainron. who In a
it failed to exiibsl... Before .he ettM I . """ " air. n.uosensinp .,. n u. joung weavers
i.'t.T !.t f. fire ie if.i, passengers s-d t-n"rfr "f hf " "
with hm fist, knocking him down. It Is
suld that at this moincm that the two
men who were with Dumron drew their
threw Jt out the window, where It fell
on the Ice in Four I'ole creek.
There were half a hundred or more
pussenKera on the car and the shoot
ing created great excitement. i
I in I K.l. lie Is a substantial citizen um
a reliable business man.
Mr. (iurtln hue not announced nis
plans for the future.
16-YEAR-OLD BOY TAKES
HIS OWN LIFE.
.Meivin, son or Mrl Humans, near
Ferguson station In Wayne-co West
Vii., suicided a few days ago by tak
ing pans green. He waa It years old.
pris consisted of a box sealed with
red hearts, which upon being opened
showed a heart on which waa a legend
written backwards that could be read
ily by holding It In front of a. mirror
when there were revealed the names
U the happy couple, which constituted
she solution of the puzzle. The bride
-t la Mlas Jeanne Adams, only child
. Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Adams, of this
y. She Is a handsome and accom-
i rthad young lady, an adept In mu
. -, skilled In the arts and mysteries
housekeeping, and a very popular
L A little bird chirped It to the
VH that her trousseau la largely
work of her own hands and much
x home outfit came from the same
re. The NEWS will not say too
h about her now, reserving some
c for th future. Mr. McDyer Is
dered by all who know Miss Ad
to be a very fortunate young man.
i the son of the late John McDyer,
formerly represented the counties
lerence and Boyd In the Kentucky
uture and made an enviable name
uiaelf by his Intelligence and In-
'. Mr. Wm. McDyer holds a re
bie position with the Good Roads
nKlneerlng department of the
f Kentucky, and Is In every way
hy young man, being Intelligent,
ind 4t man of exceptionally good
He and Miss Grace Wvllmnu,
lettshtirg, Mr. Jackson, of Ash
nd Mr. Clnggctt, of I'lkevtlle.
otuble out-of-town guests. The
by-the., by, were a happy com-
of both slnglo and married
something of an tnnnva
a departure. In entcrtaliig
was very pleasant Indeed.
, scarcely ' night o'clock
My when the guests began to
It wns creeping along to
il, m. Wednesday whim they
begun to depurt.-
A NEA3 FIRE.
An alarm of fire about 10:15 last
Saturday night brought a crowd to
the store of Mr. Jeff Davis, on upper
Mudiaon-at., next door to the Louisa
Baking company, plant, and adjacent
Hi mind had been allghtly affected for fo ,n residence of T. B. Blllups. . Mr.
everyone to road. .Mr. Bl-iniiei.shlp ro- j Patois and ti nim-inded 1-e to keep
cently completed a nl new home In t "till. As soon aa Beavers could regain
his feet again both he and Lee fled to
theclub hoube where they were board
ing ; ''.'";:
Arming themselves with a couple of
revolvers ttiey retraced their steps, ev
a complete surprise to friends in the
city. Mrs. Leslie came down . from
flkevllle Wednesday morning seem
ingly for the purpose of visiting rela
tives and friends here, but she had not
been In the city very long Until she ask
ed a friend to go shopping with her.
The friend soon learned that she waa
completing her wedding trousseau.
Mr. Keith Just reached the city from
the west about two hours before the
time for the wedding. : He la a native
of the Big Sandy valley, being a son of
Rev. William Keith, a highly honored
and much respected pioneer Methodist
preacher -of this section. He has been
in the west about forty years and has
been successful in business. He is at
this time a very prominent nurseryman
and farmer. He and his wife had
known each other from childhood, and
it seems he greatly admires the ladles
of the mountains of Eaatern Kentucky,
as this Is the second bride he has
claimed from this valley.
Mra. Keith is a member of the Clay
family of Bike county. She is a sister
of George B. Clay of this city1. She is
a most excellent lady, -and we predict
for them a happy and prosperous life.
They left on an early train Frldav
morning for their home in (he west.
WELL KNOWN SUNDAY
SCHOOL WORKER HERE.
some time and he ended his life in
fit of despondency.
W. J. Vaughan, the well known Sun
day school worker, engaged in work
ldently with the Intention of going to throughout Kentucky, was In the city
Matewan, wty re the boys spend the ye"terday, calling on friends. He Is en
greater part of their time. At a short route to Louisville, where the Interna-
distance below the club house they en- "onaI Sunday.-School Committee as
countered Damron and the Isaac boys the International Fourth DIs-
again. Lee Is said to have sunken trlct committee meet. Ho reports there
pleasantly to Charlie Isaac, who reoiled are 10o.00 more in Sunday school this
in a like tone. When opposite Damron, year than last 3'ear '-in 'he State of
who waa a few feet behind, pistol shots Kentucky'Independent-
TWO LOUISA
CAPTURED BY CUPID
APPRECIATIVE YOUNG MEN FROM
ELSEWHERE CARRY "
BRIDES AWAY,
CELEBRATED HER
NINETIETH BIRTHDAY
Blllups discovered the blaze, which
I came from a small oil of woiwt on th
second floor. Entrance to the store wness is reported to
waa effected by Mr. Blllups In time to "av? Blulea that the tiring waa begun
prevent any serious damage. It waa ""n, inree ehole were Bred In
evidently the work of an lncendlnrv. ' uuul succession, loUowed closely by
The State Flex Marshal wa. rw.tin.rt two others.. Scarcely had the echoes of
and Mr. Butler Thompson., an assls-1 Ulea ""oU receded when two more
taut, arrived In Louisa Monday. He has "uu "nt toa ertect in Dam-
conducted a quiet Investigation until ron baCK' ns-'n from hia right kid
Thursday, when he held a court of In- n'y nd Penetrating his heart. He ex-
qulry In the county attorney's office. I m abut thru and thru.'
MRS. DORCAS 8NYDER AND FIVE The nWlr)ri)r WBJ, not publlc mni only When picked up a few seconds later he
SONS ENJOY A RARE
EVENT.
. .
I one witness was admitted at a time. I waM eua-
I The result haa not been given out. I Th peculiar manner in 'which the
The result of a fir In that locality I outlet took effect promises to lend a
I would prove very disastrous, and un- I peculiar aspect to the Question - ir th.
Idee favorable conditions there Is no shot waa fired by Lee it would, from the
A very notable and delightful affair telling where the flames would have I location that he claims, have gone aJ-
NATIVE BIC SANDIAN
DIES IN ILLINOIS
GEORGE BUCHANAN, AGE 87,
VICTIM OF PNEUMONIA.
the celebration of th 0th annl- stopped.
versary of the birth of Mrs. Dorcas
Snyder, at th home of her son, Aug-I . PENSIONERS ARE DYING. ,
a U.. .,... ,1,1. 1... u. 1.... I
Frankfort. Kt r.hnii.r ltTh.
most directly through hia body. Lee
Louisa, Ky Feb. 14. 191.
Editor of Big Sandy News:
"t""ll w RnUTU UJ llir r,.nM.r.l. 11.1 I. J.
presence of her five stalwart a..na Aug- Lj at ,ne ra,e of one pengloner a day
ustua and T. J. Hnyder, of Louisa, J. I There. hv. ,.w n-n.i...
admit that he tired several K. cnuuren aent me copy
...... t . . " or tne uncoln, (111..) Courier-Herald
WHasnTTn. ",r .u ""containing account of death of Mr.
dork h ThIT 77, Georgt Buchanan, of that city.
I" U.h" ?A betn . tuUy tenn: , enclo8e you cUDDln, trom
C. Snyder, of Irnnton, Ohio, David S.
Snyder, of I'fc Pleasant, W. Va, and
Ben F. Hnyder, of Kappsburg, O., and
the members of the Immediate family
of the host. Good cheer prevailed and
was abundant, the host and hostess
deeming nothing too good for "Mother
Snyder." A prominent feature of the
01 nner table was an unusually largelQpe-,nup-,p
ivKP, orismeueu uy me very large
number of ninety burning candles The
day was spent pleasantly and happily,
the aged mother seeming to enjoy the
occasion greatly
Mrs. Dorcas Snyder Is a remarkable
woman. Notwithstanding her great age
she retains all her mental faculties to
an unusual degree and Is able to get
around with very much ease for one
of her age. Her sight is wonderfully
preserved, she hears well. Is very fond
of reading, takea a great Interest in
passing eventa and keep right up with
the times.
She was born In Lawrence county.
Ohio, not fnr from the place where
she now lives and haa lived ever since
she went to housekeeping which was COMMITTEE ACTING FOR THE M
saya that Damron flred first.
one
waa
inea who started the firing. . Lee and
Beavers claim that all the men In the
There have been pensions granted to I lnB ma '
J.43J. of which 443 have died. During Wd..We"? "TT1 ven shots
wm, ii it nave ujeu. .'urilig I i.,,i , . .
. . v distinctly heard by various Dersona.
were I
Lee and Beavers returned to the club I
house but refused . to commit them-
shortly after her marriage.
She has been a widow 39 year. The
descendants are seven children. The
daughters are Mrs. J. R. Hull, of Pmc
torvllle. O., and Mrs. 1. 8. Roark, Mid
dlesboro, Ky. There are also 20 grand
children and 17 great grandchildren.
Her seven children are living, the old
est being 67 and the youngest 65 years
of age.
good for many another year and It- Is I
enclose you clipping from said pa
per. He waa a cousin of Mrs. Ed Fer
guson of our city and closely related
to the Chambers family living near
Louisa. Away back In the flftlea and
first half of the sixties of the last cen-
. ?7 WhJ "Ola' he "and V we" SSJ
4 for Pete-h.,e; v- . .TL,. "."Tfriend8- w hav occasionally corres-
w ri.ivH ,i.Z k" "T. " Ponded wlth ach otl"-r- his last letter
aA Ci,.-. u.1., : . ' I l" ",B oeiiig jusi oerore taat Christ
...CIU, . , caugni hnu and In whieh .v.,
UO with them unH nluiH I . T ' ""i
- . ' ' uiiuci he aa M T u i 11
,. t-i jm. ...... , . i w i iixj univ uving -cnum
; r;;: ot w -ood day, i
Mr. G. W. Castle, who was appoint- - ln ,. ", " all that is said of him by the
ed to settle with the Sheriff, reports PHmin.rV hi I courier-Herald, and can add much
that Mr. Stone has paid all the balance , . more. He waa a true, dear friend of
"".to o, rii-muwn lam-1 mine, a ungnt intellect stirred his mas-
ily in Huntington and Beavers Is from Is! ve brain, and a nobler, kinder heart
i'ry rora ana related to some of our I never beat in human breast.
most prominent citizens, being a ne-1 Vour and the Big Sandy News old
mrw oi ex-oemyor J. t: Heavers, ot 1 friend, - R, T. BURNS.
niaiewan. uamriin was from Maben
and had had a checkered career. He
had served In the United States army
and four years ago killed Vlck Cuper-
ton at Louisa, Ky. He waa married
but separated from his wife, who lives
at Ashland, Ky. Williamson News.
Damron's remains were brought to
Louisa, and on Tuesday deposited in
line Hllr cemetery, after aoDrouriate
run era I services conducted by the Rev.
L. M. Copley at the residence of Char
ley Hogg, a brother-in-law of the de-
r...!. u..H TV. ?
. ..... . 4 Ulliui IUIIBIQ . 1 1 11 1 1 1 WU I nnl nn -.f V I I i .
the Inst month 62 names have been
dropped from th list.
The new pensions granted today were:
Mary I-wis. EUlottCco.; R. At Lowe,
Covington. W. D. Malone, Carter-co.:
Murtha 8. Meek, Lawrence-co.; Kllza
beth Moore, Lee-co.: Jane Lyons,
8HERIFF STONE PAYS UP.
due the county. He did this the next
day after th report of Mr. Castle was
filed.
SITE SELECTED FOR
THE NEW CHURCH
George Buchanan, an aged and high
ly "resiiected resident of Lincoln, died
I of senile pneumonia, at his home, 218
I Pekin-st., at 7:00 o'clock Saturday
morning, Feb. 5. He became ill with
I grip two weeks ago. Pneumonia de
veloped Friday morning and the aged
lnan's strength gradually waned. Mr.
Buchanan was aged 87 years, 10 months
and 13 days.
Wss a Lover of Books. .
Mr. Buchanan Is accorded the die
man waa I ttnetinn ,f v,. ...... t.aAn ., - ,.
n-1 ., i i . . . . . I li bill! f 32 venra nlH init I o. , p.-l .....I kw L. .......
iiw iiieeiiiiK i it i ii il lilt, l r. i nurLn I ' ... .... j mniw nno nitiio, n,.,,. , , n nu , v.
South last rYiday night to discuss a ". ou, one hut, nis ramer patron of the public llbrarv. He was
site for the proposed new church build- ana mother having died several years a deep student of history and had a
lug was largely attended. It was 'tl- M170' I wonderful power of retaining what he
,if. 1 1 u .1....! ... 1..,. ... . ..i ... ... .. I t n k. , Vi I .4 T..I.. in, A T . I 1 1 . i i .... .,
Xlra Rnvilne l,w,ka If aha mlirht ti I " ' u,i.i7. w . " " "i"j. ci, t'luiiiiiii u iu. no liuu an exiraoramary
jhts. "yaer 'wise as tr sne migni ,,,,, composed of nine men, sev- shot and killed Victor Caperton in this knowledge of the Bible. For manv veara
en of whom were appointed at the last I city, for which he was tried and acquit-I he spent neary every afternoon in
Married, in this city at the home of
the bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. W.
If. Adams, their daughter, Jettie, to Mr.
1 1 1, -if L. T .. ... I 1 r . t.
...u,jr.,j. urnio, ui VUIUIIIUUH, W., XeV.
Olus Hamilton performed the marriage
ceremony which occurred Wednesday.
The happy pair left on N. & W. No. 16
fdr Columbus where they will reside.
The bride, who is a very attractive
and popular girl, will be missed ln the '
home circle, but will make a very de-.
slrabie addition to her home In the
Buckeye State. .
. Frazir-8taiar
On Febrjary 14, 1816, at ll:0v m
Miss Nada Frazier, of Louisa, and Mr.
Fred G. Staker; of Ironton. O.. were
united in holy matrimony. Rev. Olua
Hamilton officiating.'
The bride wore a gown of hand-em-'
broidered silk voile and carried pink;
and' white carnations and white kid.
gloves. The groom wore the conven
tional suit of dark blue.
Miss Audrey Brooks Chapman, of
Charley,' Ky was bridesmaid, and Mr.
James W. Presfon, of Richardson, Ky,
was best man..
The brides-maid wore a gown of
white serge and shadow lace with a
touci of , blue, and a bouquet of pink
and White .carnations, while the best.
man wore dark blue.
Quite a number df guests were pres
ent and many presents were given. Im
mediately after the ceremony dinner
was served. The wedding cake was
baked by, Elizabeth Dimple Austln.who
studied Domestic Science at Concord
Normal School, Athens, W. Va.. and it
was very delicious. :
The bride was the eldest daughter
of Dr.. and Mrs. S. Z. Frazier, and is a
beautiful, accomplished young teach
er and the groom is a handsome young
telegraph, operator. They are both
estimable young people and their many
friends wish them a happy future. X
The happy young couple left Tues- .
day on the N. & W. for Columbus and
other points in Ohio. They will make
their future home. at Kermit where th .
groom has employment.
V ONE WHO WAS THERE,
DEATH OF A CHILD.
Davldrthe 3-year-old son of Mr. and
Mrs, Jof Merchant, formerly of thia
city,' died at their home at Ferguson.
Wayne-tfo., February 9, of diphtheria.
He was a very bright lad. and hia un
timely death brought sorrow to the
hearts of many relatives and friends.
Four children, two boys and two girls.
survive. Miss Lou Vinson, an aunt of
the dead boy, attended the funeral.
, ' COUNTY AGENT YOUNG.
County Farm Agent, Mr. A.-1 C.
Young, is here ready for business. He
has his office and headquarters at he .
Brunswick hotel, where he will be glad
to meet all who may wish to see him.
professionaly or otherwise. In fact, Mr.
r oung Is desirous to meet and to know -
our people.
CLOSED ON ATTACHMENT.
A few of the creditors of J. Isralaky
have closed his store under attachment.
Thia will probably result In bankruptcy
proceedings.
BIG REVIVAL AT PAINTSVILliE
The anion revival at PaJntsvllle
closed Sunday with 131 conversions. It
continued for one month and all church
es took part.
rV' '---ll?
E. CHURCH 80UTH DECIDES
. UPON LOCATION.
hoped Hhe may live to celbrate her I -tlWA,v nfttt tk. t- ain k k... , u 1-... - ...
PAnfiannlnl 1 vhbih.. Miiniuuiuv, i - -. iniic una umi uriTitiiuu; at hid uuiai j.
TAKES A BRIDE.
Proprietor of Hotel Conley at Paints-
villa, Wall Known Miniatar,
Married Mrs. Edna J. Kirk.
I with the two additions, waa aa follows: I very little.
Augustus Snyder, M. S. Burns, F. H.
I Yates, R. L. Vinson, F. T. D. Wallace,
ISr, Dr. T. D. Burgess, J. H. iTeston,
U. W. Castle, M. F. Conley, with Rev.
IL. IS. McEldowney to preside.
MARRIAGE OF CLOUMBUS
KEITH AND MRS. LESLIE
During the twist few munthn Ihn
Monday evening was appointed for NEWS has once or twice noted the
the meeting of thia committee and all visits of Mr. Columbus H. Keith, of
were present. Alter an in available Oklahoma to this cltv.. On one nf hi.
sites were placed before the meeting visits he went to Pike rotintv to vIhI
Rev. II. B. Conley, a prominent min-1 there was considerable discussion. Some friends and relatives of his father thnru
later of the Free Will Baptist church of th places regurded aa desirable were it will also be recollected that he was
in Eaatern Kentucky, and proprietor of eliminated by obstacles that could not a son of Rev. W, Keith, pioneer Meth-
tbe Conley Hotel ln Palntsvllle, and be removed by the committee. With odlat preacher, Well km wn up and
Mra. Kdna J. Kirk, widow of a proml- hut few exceptions the prices aaked for down the Snndv vnllev tin his Inst
nent attorney of Johnson-co and clerk property were considered unreason- visit during a call on a feminine rri.ui.)
nf the Kentucky house of delegates, ably high. It was llnully decided to I n Louisa he was asked bv her if he
were married in Portsmouth Friday, ac- accept the proposition of Bolt & VIn- ever thouirht of getting married attain
cording to word received here yestor- son, provided the title is found to be Mr. Keith "'fessed un" and until tht ii
day. perfect.. A committee was appointed to found It rather lnnesnms living in r.
The couple enme to Huntington to Investigate and report to the uuiii'tet ly .,rr 'Oklnlmma without some one from
he married but the groom would not conference Friday night. The price is the Sandy valley as a life partner. Me
afllrm thnt the bride was a resident S4A00, The locution is at the corner nim1 !! hia friend that he hml nlrnnHu
f Main CroMS and Perry atreets. selected th futur Atra. Keith and in
diagonally ncrtiss from the Savoy Ho- . short time expected to meet her In
tel. The alao of the lot Is suld to l Oatlettshurg and thra they would be
104x104 feet. married. The ladv ln the e..-..
of Ciibrll-co,, rather thai, da which he
went to Portsmouth.
The couple will rcld In I'ulnts-
vlllo. '
George Buchanan was born In Law
rence county, Kentucky, March 23, 1829
the son of William Wiley Buchanan
and Emmallne Hampton Buchanan.
He was married to Miss Christina
Rouse at Greenup county, Kentucky,
Feb. S. 1857. His wife died in 1895.
Retired in 1893. .
Mr. and Mrs. Buchanan moved to
Illinois ln 1865, settling near ML Pu
laski where Hiey remained on a farm
until 1893, when Mr. Buchanan retired
from active work and tnhved to Lin
coln. Mr. Buchanan was a member of
the Flrat Methodist Kpeacopnl church
nf thia city, to which denomination he
had belonged since childhood.
The deceased Is survived by three
(laughters and two sous: Theodosla.
of Lincoln; George H of St. Louis,
Mo.: Sue R, M. Carolyn and Mado E
of Lincoln. ,
Funeral services at the home at 10:00
o'clock Monday morning, Rev. T.v H.
Tnll, pastor of the M. K. Church, in
charge. Burial In Mt. Pulaski ceme
WALKER CASTLE DIES
AT SEDALIA.
NATIVE OF BIG SANDY PASSES
AWAY AT HIS WESTERN
HOME.
'1 :
On Saturday last Mr. G. W. Castle,'
of this city -received a telegram from
Sedalia, Mo., informing . him of th
dangerous illness of his brother, S. W.
Castle, better known here as Walker
Castle., Early next morning another
message was received announcing the
sad intelligence that his brother was
dead. Walker Castle was the son of
James C. Castle, who also, with hia
family at one time lived In Louisa, He
was born in Johnson county and waa
the first of eight brothers to die. He
came to Louisa in 1870 and remained
here until 1874. when he went to Se
dalia and engaged ln business. He was
successful and amassed quite a for-.
tune. Me married . In that city and is ,
survived by a widow, one son and three '
daughters. He was about 8 years of
age. During Mr. Castles residence In
this city he was well known and iinn-ayx- 4J ,
Ular, being a man of genial. Jolly dls- ' '
position, liked by everybody who knew : '
mm. lie and uncle ,11m, us his father
was popularly culled, were staunch'
democrats, as were all the other broth
ers. At the last Cleveland election the "
Castle family cast nine votes for the '
Democratic candidate.
.-Mr. Castle had been l about a year
preceding his denth.
V. S. Engineer H. E. Fryo and fam
ily are hoiiBckeepItu; In the residence ot
Mrs. Carrie Adams.
;:- a-
I: .
. If
