J$tttt
THE WEATHER FORE
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
Overcast to-day and to-morrirtri
to-morrow,
Highest temperature yeite
Detailed weather, mall and ma:
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 171.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1916. CepyrlsAI. 19l. bv Ihe Bun Printing rind Pubtithing Aitociallon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
NO NEW PLEDGE
Shonts Visited Gaymor
to Fight City Ownership;
Towns Got $5,000 for Trip
In n nnnnnnnmA J
BARNES GOING
129 AMERICANS KILLED IN
MEXICO, LANSING REPORTS;
WILSON WITHHOLDS DETAILS
FROM BERLIN,
LANSING TOLD
I'M
tMMrTs
.
WESTTOWORK
FOR ROOT BOOM
Effort Will Be Made to Kill
AIL the Roosevelt and
Hughes Sentiment.
AID SWEDEN IN
PROTEST PLAN
Appeal for Action Against
England on Seizures of
Mail Rejected.
Bornstorff Warns Secretary
After the Lusitania Case
Is Blocked.
WARXIXG DEMANDED
FOR AHMED VESSELS
German Envoy Says Dis-
armament Proposal In
duced U Boat Decree.
SKCKKTAKY UPHOLDS
DEFENSIVE ARMING
Another Crisis Feared as
the Result of the De
velopments. ifrruit CMr I'ttpatth lo Tut Sr-.
r.KVKVA, ill London. . IT Tba
jHrrol de l.fntif" Mir thsl (iermaay
la. built 100 submarine, of a new type aad
W preparing to renew- her Mbmarlae eara
palio with Increased rigor.
W'a.I!IM.ton. Feb. IT. Secretary
Unilng refused to-day to accept Uer
Eir.y'3 latest proposals for a settlement
t! the Lutltania controversy.
He laid Count von Uernstorff that the
I'a.tet States could not accept these
tropotal.-, cither In whole or In part,
until Germany squares her recently pro
cUlmeJ submarine decree with her past
iMurances to the United States re-
urdlr.g lie r conduct of submarine war-
Un.
Tie Secretary subsequently charac
terized as absurd all afternoon stury
t-r.t cut from Washington that he had .
acctf.ed the I'.crinuti proposals on the
tit'.i of amends for what was past, but
ould n serve for separate consideration
iht question of future submarine war
Ur. The Lusltanla controversy, the Sec-
rttiry made plain, cannot be divorced
from the whole question of Uerman sub
mirme warfare. The demands of the
Cited States In this controversy, he
ti.d. wen- not intended merely to obtain
iMtWictlon for the single Injury sua-1
ttlned ty the attack on the Lusltanla
bill to exja from Ucrmany pledges
uhlcli would for the rest of the war
juartntfe observance by her of the
rait? of humanity and clvlllied naval
arfdrr Htfore a settlement Is pos-
We, he (lf.l.irtit. these pledges must
I. made tn stand out clear cut and
.thout possibility of misunderstand-
A Hernial Probable.
'j-rnuny, the. Ambassador clearly In-
Inut-d t., .Mr. Lansing, wilt probably
K('jv.- ir. give unqualified assurances
tut Herman submarines will not attack
rtwl memy merchant ships without
smim.k Alrhotigh careful to explain
tUie stcr-tary that he could not speak
.'jthorltatiMily tor bis (iovernment with
out further Instructions from Berlin, ho
Mliresr-d the 1,-hef that even though
lis ia eminent might assure the United
suits again that Uerman submarines
ill not attack unarmed ships without
larr.lw;, the Berlin Foreign Offlee
m'A iMi.ler no circumstances promise
ttiit submarines will warn armed ships
Were attacking them unless the United
tf:ts b dhle to obtain from the En
'lite ivmers a pledge that the guns on
nch rfrlpa will not be used against sub
sunr.es, Atnbaasidor von llernstoiff did not
l-itati to Inform Mr. Lansing that the
f fifrni.in submarine decree, warn
li neutrals that armed enemy mr-cranunt-u
are to be treated as warships
r.i attack! d without warning, would
Mer hao been Issued except for the
nemoMiidum which the Secretary of
.-tits sent to the Knteute Powers pro
loslt.g a modus vlvendl under which
fi-r. umjM , A Eeneral disarmament
of nil in-reliant fcliliti of belligerent
l'(cr!..
Th Aiiib.t.ss.idor reminded Mr. Ian
k'rt! th.ii in iioiiiin-- that armed mer-tluj.'tr-'i
ere to- regardeal as auxil
iary mii.eis tli Herman iovernment
I'd.iu , arely on the position
Hen th, ,erret took In his memo
undum ! t do llntente Allies.
ei lltrhangea Probable.
rVnn now on. It Is authoritatively
'Un, rhe netri.tiatlona are likely to re
Irio h "-cries of new exchanges not
".ly rirtn the United States and
Ormany hut between the United State
''d the Knicnte powers. Meantime, It
to "Id. It is ixuslble thai flermany may
yiiperd pulling Into operation on and
ifler I'oliriur,. hj n.nlv f.rriplulmeil
rrticy f attacking all Hrineil enemy
-"-'linaiiTinsn wnnoui warninK.
Cc-'jni von Bertutorff hns already sent
I He.rlm a rejrt on his conference
to-day lth Mr laiiislnt'. A reply Is
"ot expend before nxt Tuesday, Thl
itiswtr, it is eiected In Uerman circle,
fll Intirij'-t the Ambassador to Wiform
American Government that under
"o clrwimstaiiee? can German submu
fin's undertake to warn armed enemy
"return ve.els in advance and assume
the ebligutioiu. of vhtit and search unless
t)rd that tlie (runs on the merchant
'n lll not be used against the sub
marine. The rejvly t If suggeated, may be
fnwif the means by which Mr. Lansing
'Ither renew his disarmament pro
wain to the Kntente Allies or obtain
from hem the guarantees which Oer
"My isoiild require.
" the Kntente Allies agree to either
Of 1hi.e proposals', a prospect admittedly
"wubtfiii, t t, fXp,clwj that eba whole
oiittoersy could be speedily ended.
wthtrwiiP t S apprehended that the
lh.tc4 Stale. Ht fnoe the prospect
Jlt.ier of pressing Uermany for a settle
'nt en this country's term or of flnd
J" Ititlf t any Haiti confronted with
t and graver crisis growing out of
ConKiintrt on Third Vagt.
Interborough Head Went to
Attitude of Company Toward Rival Subway
Plans Earned $290,000 in Single Year.
DEFENDS BONUS AND
Theodore P. Shonts. president of the
Interborough ttapld Transit Company,
testified before the Thompson legislative
commute yesterday that he visited the
late Mayor Uaynor at his home In St.
James. L. I., shortly after the Mayor
took office In 1M0 to lay before him
the attitude of the Interborough com
pany toward the municipal ownership
of rapid transit lines.
He testified that on that occasion he
was accompanied by Mlrabeau L. Towns,
one of the lawyers employed by the
company during the subway negotia
tions, and that the Introduction to the
Mayor given by Mr, Towns, who was
for years a warm friend of Mr, Uaynor,
was .- part, at least, of the services for
which the Interborough paid the lawyer
15.000.
Mr. Shonts also testified that Imme
diately after this visit to Mr. Uaynor
he made a metnorat.dum of what he told
the Mayor and submitted It either In
whole or In resume to J. J Morgan,
the present head of J. l Morgan & Co.
The recital of what transpired at SI.
James was given by Mr. Shonts with
some diffidence. He suggested that his
memorandum had never been submitted
to Mayor Uaynor and be wondered If It
'Would be quite ethical to make It a
public record. Mr. Colby, counsel to the
committee, got around this by reading
only such parts of the memorandum as
he thought were germane to the present
Inquiry.
The fact that there was such a visit
to Si. James came out very suddenly.
Mr. Shonts. when asked what the ner
vlces rendered by Mr. Towns were, gave
the Impression that he didn't even re
member the lawyer. He called him
"Town" and repeated the name "Mlra
beau" with an inflection that carried to
the minds of his auditors the Impression
that he was recalling the Identity of
Mr. Towns only with difficulty.
When It was Nucleated to him later
that It was curious il. at he should liavo
engaged
lawyer he hardly knew to
undertake with him such an Important
mission Mr. Shonts dented that he had
sought to convey the impression that
he did not remember Mr. Town.. He
said he remembered htm well enough.
bu' couldn't remember what services he
performed until Mr. Colby brouKht out
the fact of the St. James trip.
yaritrtard h- the Bona..
This trip, the bonuses which he re
te'veii from the Inte-hnrougli because
of his extraordinary services ami the
fees paid to lawyers employed by the
Interborough were the thief subjects
upon which Mr. Shouts testified. With
respect to bonuses. Mr. Shunts said he
had been agreeably surprised that tlm
directors should have thought so well of
H'm services, and he quoted President
Taft In support of his recommendation
that Ittchard Held llogers, general coun
sel for the company, should also be re
warded. He testified that he Invested
HELEN F. HEARS DIES
SUDDENLY IN STUDIO!
Noted Sculptor's Body Sent to
Morsue for Autopsy by
Coroner.
Heten Famsworth Mears. sculptor.
dldenTL., evenln. In her studio
. . - - I
.- ... . . . . 1. uw..
at IS waantncion square s5uin. on-.
was wltli her sister, Mary, a writer, and
" , ' " . '.A ',
a friend, whose name could not h
learned, when she became 111. Jler sl -
ter rMi to get help, but when she re-1
turned Miss Meant was dead.
Coronrr Reardon's physician. Dr.
Schwaitz, looked at the body and or
dered It to the morgue for an autopsy.
He said that he could get no satisfac
tory Information at the house tegardlng
Uhe circumstances of the sculptor's death.
Tlss Coroner's office received notification
of Miss Mears's death from a Miss tan
ning, who gave her address as 4R Wash
ington Square. Reporters who went
to the house found Miss Mears's studio
on the second floor full of friends, some
of thein hysterical, from whom little
oould be learned.
Miss Mears, although only 3 years
old was a sculptor of recognized stand
ing. She studlert unoer -aim. uannrns,
who recommended her a- one of th. ,
strongest pupils he ever bad when lie
gent her to Frederick Macmonnlea In
ParU She was particularly known for
her portrait busts. Her memorial siaiue
to Frances B. Wlllard In the Capllol
at Washington was the first statue of n
woman by a woman fdaced In that
building. , . ,
in 1911 her design was accepted for
a statue for the new Wisconsin Rtsfe
House. Before that sho had done much
-ark of note. Including the MacDowell
bas-reliefs, familiar to visitors at the
Metropolitan Museum ana at me aisc
Dowell Club; a "Fountain of Life,"
which won a prise at Ihe St. Louis ex
position , ,
Her early years were passed In Osh
kosh. Wis., where she began her art
work as a child by carving a life slse
portrait of her sister from a block of
solid plaster. One nf her sisters. Ixiulse,
became a painter: the other, Mary. Is
an author. Her mother, under the name
r Vfiile Wlldwood, wrote, plays and
stories which were popular a generation l
ago
AUSTRIA HEEDS "EVERY MAN.
Order Civil OMHals, IIHaerlo Kx-e-Mpt,
Kaaaslned for Army.
fptrial Cle ritipate lo Tnr f,
VirNNA, via .urlch and laindoti, Feb.
t An ofnrlBl decree nas peep isMie.i
ordering civil officials hitherto exempt
from military service to undergo exami
nation Immediately to determine their
fitness for the army.
The decree states that Ihe protracUon
'of th war Imperatively necessitate (he
jcalllPi; ' every gvuuaoie man.
Mayor at St James to Tell
OTHER POSITIONS
his first bonus of $125,000 stocks
and that he believed that charging this
amount to what the city paid the In
terborough for preliminary expenses In
connection with the new subways was
a perfectly proper thing to do.
As for the fees allowed to outside
counsel, notwithstanding the recommen
datlon of a bonus to Mr. Kogers because
he had saved Die company much money
by conducting all the negotiations In
connection with the dual system con
tracts, Mr, Shonts said these fees were
proper payments and according to cus
tom, the work of Mr. Kogers being con
fined to the routine labors of getting
the contracts signed.
Among the "outside" lawyers who
received fees was Mr. Towns. In the
tables showing that $116,000 was paid
by the Interborough to "outs'de" law
ers appeared the Item of a payment
of fS.000 to him. The bill submitted
by Mr. Towns gave no details as to
the nature of his services. In the audi
tor's distribution of the charge It waa
piacea 10 -ouier suspense' and "pro.
posed subway routes."
"What did Mlrabeau L. Towns dor
asked Mr. Colby.
"Kr. Mlrabeau Town? Did he get
some too?"
"He got some too. Do you know Mr.
rowns r
"I think I have seen him."
"When did you last see him?"
"I haven't seen h'm In years."
"Do you remember any sendees per
formed by him In connection with the
subway contracts?
"If there Is a voucher there It will
show.
Illarara a Poor Measary.
"How did you come to meet him?
"Oh. !.ord, I don't know. Mr. Counsel.
I meet so many people that I would be
afraid to guess any date, and my mem
ory for names and faces Is not the best.
I remember Mr. Town and that I met
him.
"His name, Mr. Shonts, Is Towns,'
not Town.
.Miraoeau, jou sa. .Miraneau 1
Towns?1 I ought to remember. I admit.
,LL an,
mere a no attempt noi to remem-'
was'lhe'-" yU VM ,hat ,5,C-
Vh.r. i. an ..t.mnt nnt .
remlmbe'rahlii "in cl, Uh I
the Interborough."
The other counsel specified their ser-.
vices and assisted the auditor In the
"ssiste.1 in. auditor m ine
distribution or payments to the various
accounts. Why was that not done In
Ibis ease?"
"I Know nothing about that Mr. Uay
nor, the aud'tor, can tell you, or per
!iap Mr. Rogers, our general counsel,"
"How did Mr. Uaynor know to what
account to distribute this payment?"
"Some one must have told him. Per
haps I did. I don't remember It now."
"How about the payment to Kdward
M. Uroiit? The voucher shows he re
ceived $15.00(1. to you remember that?"
Mr. Shonts ;.IH h. rmn.hered verv I
ConMniirtf on .ml rape.
MAYOR MUFFLES GUNS
IN CITY WAR ON DRINK
! . . .
Modifies Some of Kincr.son's
Plans for "Water Wagon
Week."
Mayor Mltchel. Health Commissioner j
Kmerson and City Chamberlain Hruere
Itv Chnmha-tnln .
ii) namnenain liruere
. :
at a .nnS.ronAA ....l.. J . . I J . J ..I
- .,,., nmuro toieven so, mere wouio nave in-en upon
n,0,lf" f"""reF,of ,,,e !,eH"h r,",'h commitment the blight ot autago-
Partmenfs educational campaign agnln'i nhun nnd party dissension,
overindulgence In Intoxicants which Is I Mr. Hoot recognized the danger and
o commence next Sunday. .declined to permit a show down In the
inojeci 01 srnuing temperance
literature to clubi and hotels has been
:, "' '" -" ...ni.vv,,,,,, j
I ' 1 " ' lu nnri Di.l. 11,112, lieitl- I
lag innqihletr. on the drjnk question.
These tracts, however, will he dlstrlb-
uted In ferry houses and lodging houses.
hut the text will undergo a slight re
vision. Mr. Hruere said thai Ihe Mayor was
looking over all the antl-aloohot litera
ture and that Its tone was to be very
conservative. He said that the Mayor
Intended to put the Health Pepartment's
crusade on a strictly health basis.
With this tn view it was decided
to change parts of the leaflets so the
assertion could not be made that tho
Health leprluieiit was engaged In n
prohibition movement. As an example.
nr pmpuiP the sentence, "Nntliln'i
Is sate that la short of total abstinence
is lo be preceded In new Issues by Ihe
phrase, "For many persons."
Tho slides to be shown on Washing
Ion's Hlrthday are tu he altered corra
spondlngly, and during the week, tvhleh
was at tlrst called "water wagon week,"
residents of Ihe rlly will not sec a
street sprinkler bearing Inire ntm-urdu
tlsmt the use or stimulants traversing
the tboroughfarr.i. The expectation wa
thai this water wagon would be sent
through the Tenderloin district most lie-
quently, but the Idea han been nb.tn
iloited. The rest of the programnie for th.
week remains unchaiige.!. The question
of temperance will tlrst be brough
prominently before ihe public In tlm
churches on February 20,
FARMERS' LOT MADE HARDER.
Mall by Motor Cornea In JVIarht
Mostly! Corlnslly Can't Walt.
Washington, Feb. 17. Motor cars on
rural mail mutes do not make a hit with
fanners, according to Representative
Uray of Indiana, who made a vlgorou
kick against the Innovation In the House
to-day,
"The barking of Ihe farm doa- In Ihe
, middle of the right Instead of the crow
lis; of the cctii Is now the signs! that
the postman bus arrived," Mr. Uray said
indignantly, "and the poor farmer In
forced tn go out with a lantern tu see
what has happened to his mall box,"
COMr.tHTMKNT (.'ARM TO FLORID...
Heuhourd Florida Ltd., ii.M P. U. Wul.-kMI.
best equipped Florida train. Inq. UMO'wiy,
Aiv.
BURTON OF OHIO TO
GET SECOND PLACE
Mr. Itarnes Is going West.
The miscarriage of his plan to commit
the Republican State convention to an
Indorsement of Ellhu Hoot for the Presi
dency did not daunt this Implacable
enemy of Theodore Roosevelt and all
Progressive Influences.
He Is going West to strangle, If he
csn. all sentiment for Roosevelt, for
Hughes, for any candidate who does not
represent everything that the Old Ouard
fought for In Chicago In 1912.
He goes, after many weekly confer
ences with Senator Penrose of Pennsyl
vania, with Charles D. Illlles, chairman
of the National Committee, and with
other stalwarts of old time Republican
ism, to spread the doctrine that the Ideal
selections as candidate for President and
candidate for Vice-President would be
nilhu Root of New 1'ork and Theodore
L. Hurton of Ohio. Root and llurton la
to be the slogan.
Plaaalag for .Maay Weeks.
The plan has been In the making for
many weeks. Its details have been
worked out by Mr. Rimes and Senator
Penrosv at Innumerable conferences in
Senator Penrose's suite at 'the Waldorf-
Astoria and at the Republican Club.
Neither Mr. Harnes nor Senator Pen
rose revealed the scope of the scheme,
naturally: but each made confidants, and
the story was too blk', too Interesting fur
the confidants to keep lo-'ktd within
their booms.
The flareup In Massachusetts caused
by the pronouncement of Representative
Augustus P. Gardner, supported by other
Republican leaders, that Col. Roosevelt
and no one ele must be the Republican
onary excursion nf Mr. Humes ot ,
Alb.mv. It was taken at Its face value
as a symptom of disaster for the Re-
publican Irreconcllables. There were I
'n "frt mlr to laugh It down. ,
Bul 11 craa n atmosphere of fear.
"'nd others' oV thdVntfment ''" I
f I . J? t. 'heir sentiment in
l"J?rL" " J" " ' '
.".a .1 uT..Ti..; ,
......m H.strov the.e nrnmlslnir blnoni. nf .
n,ir,,.... ..niiV,.r.i 1
Roosevelt entlment.
The situation as so obviously critical
that quick work by the antl-Ro.isevelt.
antl-Pronre-elve elements was Impera
tive. It was recfignlzftl bv Mr Hainc.
by Nicholas Murray lliitler, by Henry
U Sllmson and hv "their upstate allies
'
that the first effort agaln-t ltnnsfelt.
which means. In the l.uger ens,-.
Hughes also, must be made In the New
York State eomention. Their cnnfei-
ences produced the resolutlnn to Indortx
V.Wm Hoot. Whether or not the) sin-
1 cerely tiellt-vt thi
that Mr. Koot Has avail-
able in the sense thai lie could lie eleeted
Is of small conntiuence. 'such an eventuality, and well aware "f
tin dancer fur the future If these rules.
To Control Mate lleleicnlea. , nhlch are of Infinite worth to civilization
Their purpose was t.. bind Ihe eiKhtv- as a whole, are not preserved, desires
seven delegates from New York to an hetcwlth to make a renewed representa
atreplable ratidldate, lo it candidate who thin to your 1-Jxit llcncy In this respect,
could lie relinquished, if necessary. In
favor of another almost as accnptnlile. Hall Truffle Violated.
The big thing was In ",ew up" Hie New ,.Mf .. lh ,,rl.h ..uthnrltle- have
York delegation so that the srIIc Colonel ,
1 -ni.1,1 h.. n li.ni... ,.i.,..i.. i,
0rri,o,rameytoP?he wnrMVVS ",c
I Tlt M'h.nip fnllnil It f.illn.l l,.o..UA
I the partisans of Unv. Whitman, who are
i.unlr.il 'iiit.i M- ti. titl.iIMr IS
not nearly so much for Whitman as thev roiai t onveiiuoii u iicvt-riueicss sr.-m-lure
against Hisil. threatened to turn the to Ills Maje-ty's Uovernint nt that the
l convention Into a riot If the committee Hrltlslr procedure. In the form and eten-
'on resolutions dared report an Indorse. '
m,nt of Iln?'-, " Pcdmble that I
1U '. r i'!' . .. ."T I
,,n,,,rn "uiii int.- iinvril Hie tllMH
,nrsement through the convention; but
il. i cinrilt illli'UKII llie cimve llllll
. . ...
tomnuiiee. v 1111 mo rnilure r tl,c
scheme went the whole gramme of
.- .. '.
..... .,. ,. ,.. .. .., n r,
great availability or Hoot. w, ,,e fact '"1r'K"V ,2 .. , . t ." v Is
that New York State had taken Ihe lead t,,c n""'- "f " Un. , 11 V1"1
In declaring for Hoot, with the notb.n n""ry particularly o point ou how
that New York's pronouncement plus the 1 contrary thi" practice Is to the stlpula
great convention speech of Mr. Hoofs i Hons In the above mentioned Hague con
would have a tremendous effect upon ' vtntiou. vvhlch stipulations or rules must
the voters at the primaries all over Ihe I be c.insldcied to have been In existence
country. even before the promulgation of this
Hulked here, Mr. Ilarnes attempted the I convention.
. ...... .L.I... . - ..!...!.. , ... ... I
neat tirnt iiiihk m iiniiiiii ironi me mree
New York delegates at large. Senator
wadswnrth. Mate ( halrnmn Tanner and
Senate Leader Klon It, Drown, tlerliirii
tlr.ii that Ihey, as the iniijorll) of the
Hlg Pour, definitely Indorsed Hoot, tint
Whitman was not tn be i onsiihe.l. He
could come In If be anted to, hul no
body cared much whether he .11.1 or mil.
Stale Chairman Tanner breathed coldly
upon this supplementary plan, foies.-elag
the rumpus II would make. (In Wednes
day night Mr. Tanner, like Senator
Wadsworlh, was saying that ihe secret
conference or the three delegates al large,
which started out at the llepubllcau Club
tn attempt to do vthal Ihe convention
Imd failed to do, would meet auain. with
"ov. nnin inii ."'V, '. .; """
press n preference." Then catin: the Unv. 1
ernor's tint statement that he would b
willing en. Mich lo meet with ,o. 1
leagues or tlie wr Kour either here ni
di Albany, bul nolhlug could shake hint
from bis support of Hughes
Tanner Issnes n Mnlenirnl.
Whether or not this li.id Ihe efTe.-i of
further chilling Mr, Tanner's enthiielnM..
ror lloot Is not apparent further liiaui,, ,,ip,.ioeheuient are progressing favor-
last night be Kitve out this statement ; ",,,;." riling to persistent minors
iiierr nas ii.ru in. .iKreruieni on tlie
part of Senator .idswortli, Senator
Hrown and myseir 10 pieoge ourselves to
any ciindldale. o far as I inn person-
ally concerned I expect to so to the
Chicago convention uupledgnl.
Hut that doesn't Imllcate hy any inc. ins
thai Mr. Barnes, supported by Senalor
Watlsworth. Mr. Brown nnd nil of the
Influences opfieed lo Itoosevrlt and
Htighen, is ready to ipill, ll indicates
merely that they will work under coyer 1 en -e In Paul Allien llesunrd. head of
rather than In the open ami thai by the tm French Academy, at the Villa Medl
time the Chicago convention assembles ,1s, M. Heennnl has been painting a nor
Ihey will have practically all in' the New .mill nr Canlinal Mercler.
York delegates ready to tote for Hoot on '
the first ballot and on as many succeed.
Ing ballots an circumstances Justliv.
In other words they will spend tlm time
between now ami June 7 In sewing up
the delegation so llwhlly that nobody
Continued on fourth l'og$,
S
LANSING STANDS BY
TRADITIONAL POLICY
Washington, Feb. 17. The Ameri
can (Iovernment hns rejected a proposal
from Sweden that the United States
cnll a conference of neutral Powers for
the purpose of Joint protest against the
violations of International law by tlrcat
llrltaln.
Secretary Lansing gave the reply of
the United States In the course of an
Informal tnlk wdth the Swedish Minis
ter. Although a formal note from the
Swedish (iovernment has been before
the Department for nearly two weeks
Secretary Lansing admitted to-night
that he had not seen It.
In rejecting the verbal proposal the
Secretary Informed the Minister that
It was against the traditional policy of
the United States to Join with foreign
Powers In dealing with foreign ques
tions and that In respect to the Brit
ish xlnlatloiis, as well as all other vio
lations of International law by tho bel
ligerents In the present war, the Ameri
can Uovernnient preferred to act Inde
pendently. It was learned to-night the Swedish
Minister at London has been In confer
ence wltli Col. K. M. Houe,- for the pur-
i.ise of settltic forth the altitude of
Sw.ilen mi all pending disputes with
I Si-c.it Hrltaln.
The Swedish note to Mr. Lansing
cliarces that tlreat llrltaln. despite re
iMtte.i nroti'sts bv the neutral Powers,
has steadllv Increased her violations of
International law and .her unlawful stric
tures on neutral trade. Paitlcul.ir stress
is laid on the llrltlsh seizures of mails
eu mute between the United States and
Sweden, and it Is said that Sweden tval
lies "Us resKMisiblllty not to omit any
measure" n jirevcnt Ureat Hrltaln from
disregarding the last remaining tenets
of international law.
The Mvrrdlah 'ote.
The of the Swedish Uovemment's
JX iiciSinryUn.Ing follow. :
..The lllynl (ipveriinient during the
l're""t -r " ''; P"'"
.,,,, ,,, yollr Kxcellency that thtough
cooperation It be sought to maintain and
present certain Important rules of Inter-
I'r"rr'
national law which concern protection in
11. lit 1 al ciiininerce and navigation and
which are
being violated by Ure.it
Hrltaln.
"The violation of existing rule of ,n
t ruatloiial law li.f. reg.inll-ss nf pro-
tet. Inert as.. I. until lit present only a
. .. -..1 - ....I..., ... I....,d.llllll til lll
few rules, .ervlrnt ,i- priitectlun to neu
tral tiimiift-rclitl liiten-ourse, are oln-erxed
by Ureat llrltaln. and It l feared that
niso thci-c remaining ftw will be vio
lated. "Ills MaVMj's Uovcrnment. which Is
lerply conuIou of Its rt -ponslblllty not
in omit any uieaMirc tending to prevent
,. '. .... ... !, . t., ..
M.ii.iic.i ii i,tii II..IH'. i"1
'-" 1 1,1 "r"u" h:
MIll'lllS 1,1. I't-l.lS. i lr.,. i",...
pot Is " protected through the Hague
elveuct practised, would ne invalid ev en
w
with tej-ard to ordinary express goods,
Ill-.aUll Vlllll I III- s-riup ., itv I I., " ,1'tciii
when the siliure of parcel post Is ill-
recti il against a means of conveyance
under guarantee of sovereign Powers.
II, sides, gleat personal Inconvenience Is
connected with seizure of this kind.
However, llngliiltde present practice
f ,.0H)rK ,,o tlrst class mall -rut bv
,.,,, x(.,..is frni ore rieiiiial eountty
tin another is an evtn greater violation
.... !.-.. .-.I. ..I II . .. t...
Appeal to I'nlted Mate.
"The Hnal Unv eminent tlurefore now
app.als to the ( iovei nnient of the l.'nlted
Suites for c.siper.ttloi( for the purpose of
seeking to bring about a discontinuance.
I' the violations of lnteinatioii.il law, at
ltat o fai as Ihe same concerns tlrst
class mall, an.) it solicits as early an
answer as possible, whether your Excel
lency Is willing o lake appropriate ac
lion In cooperation with the Hoyal Uov-
eminent, anil eventually the Uovern
nieiils of nil" I neutral c.ninttli s, for the
pm-pnM- of Insisting that the rule which
,,c oueatlon involves, and which is one
I ..f tii,u,,i..i,i.,t xtltmhulona of linei.
I n:tlouil lv, !.- ol.K.rvitl."
FRANCE CLOSER TO VATICAN.
Itntnnrs of Conilna llapproyht
menl Cttrrrnl In Home.
.xjie.Vn (o'.e Vetptilrh to Tnr Srs
Homk, Feb. 17, Negotiations lielweeii
. l-... 1 llm V.'itli'Hii InnUfiii! tniviir.l
M.P, these rumors lieconilng generally
, cm rent In spite nf Hie leliceuce of the
I Vatican.
pope Hent-dlct gave an audience last
. evening lo Canlinal Mercler, Primate of
Helglnm, 'Ihe audience, which lasted
two hours, was not announced officially,
since It was cnuneiied with Cardinal
Mercler's conference with Premier
llrland of France.
This morning the pope gave an audi-
Cuba In Kit 11 llallrnada.
preiil talitt Ufumlfli lo Tub Sl
Havana, Feb. 17.- Prcxldent Menocil
bus ippolniril a voniiiilsslnii to prepare
.1.... e.. .. . " ,..'.-
..,r tn. svti..i..n. -wnernnip 01
railroads.
TOLL OF THE MEXICAN REVOLT
IN AMERICAN LIVES IN 3 YEARS
7ASIHNGTON, Feb. 17. The Americans who have been lost In
vv Mexico from 1913 to 1915 inclusive were divided by Secretary
Lansing as follows:
Total Americans killed from causes directly connected with revo
lution, 18.
Total who have disappeared (probably killed), 6.
Killed by bandits, 10.
Killed by Indians, 12.
Deaths due to miscellaneous criminal causes, 30.
Total, 76.
American civilians killed on American territory by border
trouble, 20.
American soldiers killed on American territory by border
troubles, 16.
Total Americans killed in years 1913-1915, 112.
LIST OF AMERICANS KILLED
IN MEXICO IN FIVE YEARS
Secretary Lansing Draws Comparison Between Figures
of Wilson Administration and the Preceding One
in His Report to Congress.
Washington, Feb. 17. The report of t'UHA.v, r.nHAHl. murdered in Soiiom
.. ,t. ......a .tnt.v'-(-v- Kl'WAIU) 1.. stabbed la death .1
mviTllll J 1 i 14" ! I d 111- . -
of Americans killed In Mexico during the
years 1M3, 1914 and 1015 as
"In this connection," says the leport.
"it may be stated that when the murder i
of American citizens was reported, the
Department of Stat made rej.reenta-
tlorut thrnutrh its repreientatlvtw for the
apprehension and
unlhhmeiit of the ns-
nnnnilii', null ill nunc tnt-n i
nittde such
imriimiii n rtrin-ciu..ii.,.- ........ r
repreentatlons to tne avpropriaie oi-,
tlclals on their own Initiative."
The following Is the list of American)
killed In Mexico from canst that can be
attributed directly to the revolution :
Killed In I II lit.
AI.AMIA. JOHN It.. h.inKC'l a"
Hln Ilr.lV'i. Taniaullpat
TIIUMAS, JOHN IIKNIIV aiialnaleil by
Keileral .nMlers iti .Madera, Clilliiihii.i.
HAVKS. i:t.lt!NI). arsarlnatril by eauie
PtnJ.
ltOHUltTSii.v. w ii.i.ia.m miirueren
n rr vtimiiiini-i 111 jiutHii.u uii-n,.
llnaloa.
I.ANIIKt. 1-OltKfHIO. stabbed in death
hi Nueto ltre.to.
Si:i!ili:ilS0N. fll.MU.K.-'. artldentally shot
In Wi k st .luaret.
MAHTINK.. IVt-IANO. kl.letl In battle
while ,t prl-.inr lit Tainpl.'n 'dUlrlet
SASCIIi:. IM'.VHN Clov. ir.ur.l-reit b
Metli-an Kt-dirH. itliiinlj, m! Mexbali
VALENCIA, JISIm lliurdered l anie
plat f
KIMetl In I IM I.
SMITH. l'llNK, klll.il b ri'drr.ils at
ThiiipIio,
SAWYlIlt. UL'V S. fttall) Miiundtd durlns-j
nn ull.u-k mi Mnnle-e by t'onsttlu- J
tln'la l-ts I
KKI.I.V, nil. v: K., killed by Indian
il.llr. tn StHir.i. ,
t'lfAl-K.L, y i'.. killed by Jlfxlian ...lill-r '
hi .Vop.ii , Sunora
Kllle.l In Itll.'..
.MeMANfK JOHN II, killed by Zip.it', -a.
Ill Mrxi n !' while iLfi'ndlnir 111- home
HEinst .i-.iiii(
ELY, ISAAC IU. accidentally shot b Vllils-
tan, laiiipl n.
HKNNLTT, I N.. shot h VllliMaa while,
Tan.pl?..
f.Tlt-r'.1 :.TtT .m,V .V ' ! " " hV ,h' V""U
H liSred a, raerto Cllo..
. .. ....
Ainerieana neiieven sum.
'
I JhJXXti IV
He V llll.lt,...
COMl'TO.V. 1 1 A 1 1 1 1 V. dbapp, nred and W
noted to have been eH'uiel .it Chi
huahua. MI LI ON, I'll A II LIIS, reported murdered
In band of ItU' rt.i for.i.er In sonora.
coV. Jt'AN. dl-apprHred during attack on
Monclnva
DALKVMI'LK. CIIAltMIS S. In 1?15, last
,.rn In prt.on al Vlcioila
SCOTT. I'KTHIt, reported killed near
Norales, Sonera
Killed bj nnntllla.
tiol'.ovv
Iiolllt-. kllle.l Li bandits
in
Tepl .
Hum:. MIlS. I'll Vll!.l K , .iln known .i
Wlttv liln. murdered by .MmxIciu wlio
were ctugh' rohblnR her Inline ,u Chi
li u.huit.
HooT. MAI 'tic-. C . sttlii.e.l to draih
wlille re.l.lltu: robb-r). M..tllan
VDIKIAIIH . Cl.r.MUNTI'.. killed III lie
dl'.c. Wlir.ts
IH'llWI'.I.L. VHlToN. killed al OJUlU
aula bv order of n federal olflr-er
HOAIIMIV. C II.. reported killed with
llrltlsh stibJeriM In raid, on mines In ;
ISil.idula.1ara dlstrlel
PAUMIlN'TIJIi. JOHN liLUNN, murdered
b bandit- at tiiladala tara
vi:lli:s. r.iiWAiiu pkuiiman. Killed
when train whs att.t-ked near Vera
Crur
.IACOIIV. ,1AM US. murdered al i iilhiiahua.
TAVUMI, JAMi:s T., fatally wounded
while re.lslliiB rubbery at his home
m ir Vera Crur
I Killed by Indian.. I
lll.N Ii:il. lll'WAHK I., near Oax.tia
' l'. III! i:i.l.. TOM. ambu.Iied In Ibrmosiiln
dl.ll'l.'l
SOI'I Hl. o A. I,, kllle.l al La Colorado '
WILLIAMS. JOHN' killed III s.iin.r.i.
'AM KHA, in'illisi:. miirdired at L-nchl
Muflmi Soli'.r.i
HIIOWN, C. M . killed In Maiatlan .1ltr.-t. I
WIICHV JOHN 1'. kllle.l at Lsp-ranr.a,
bom.ra
DONOVAN. I J same ,
KAS, .lOSLI'H. i. -ar San lilts Slnalna ;
KAY. W A . il I'lstieraus i, Sonora. I
llOI.OSllolloliill, lilAIILIlS. In I'uerle
dlslrli'1. Mnaloa
VV'IMHIA.M. ' S . al tjulmlehls Itanche. J
Tf pli.
tllscellnnenna Killings
llrtKAi'K litANK miirdrred at Coal.
ITtANK murdered
VAN ir.Nlo-'il. WALTI',11. murdered b
Mevhaii cli III in at liiiraniro
WAItltllN. JAMKS o, inurdered b) Mrx-
I. ..11 Milan al Tainnlco
l.iwit KN "t: ! ALllK.ltr ll . same
COHftlK. WILLIAM, reporl.d inurdcrrd b
t-lilrf nf I'lillc. i 11 iv 111a r
I Kl.i:.wy- -'''l''' .'lnr ,,. ,,vl
,.H' '.1 . ! 'i,, iVlhu ah,i.. ' ' "
ni'ltTON, HIlNin li.Vn.V, mur.lned bv
Cnnsiltutbiualbl toldl.-rs al s..n(a llo
'alia.
KAIT. VICTOIt
W , murdered 111 Cain-
pe.,ie.
KDSON, JOHN, inurdered at
".I Wnado,
tiila.Ula.lara
13DSON, MIIS.. fatally wounded at nine
nlace.
rilDF.USON, PKDIJII. niurdere.l In Vria I
Crur..
Killed In Cnmhre Tnnnel,
II1LM AllTIN, M. J.
S.-lHll'ir.l,i. III'.IINARD
W-KUSTHII. JOHN P.
McCHTi'HKON, ll. J
MOIU1IS. .1. I
WILLIAMS. I.lli:
KI'lLLUV. THOMAS
MAIir.lllS, II I'
Murdered In Ihe I III,-.,
HAllMON. K M., I'Mliuahua ell).
I al.I.KN. UUUAH. I'lllllll.lllU. 0111-
p ; tjfniip, j.vMUS. murdertd In tra
I cru.
i'anioli n.
ATWATKH. IIKHIIKUT, fatally subbed,
Vera frti.
MrtNTOSH, WAI.TKtt, found murdered at
T.tnipltn
liltlJAI.VA. IIKVKS. shot by Mexican po
liceman at Nfiiuler
llVlttJ. W M JK.. suminnrlly execute.!
near Tamplin on charge of rtealliiK
TKJ.U oiuiKllT. killed In San tails
J'oiotl.
Killed IIUO In tniit.
,i- iiii.iiwiiik r-lf'tli'! Kllietl in in- r--
'Public In IS10 from nilsieltanous criminal
ii.iim. - s not cunn-ele.l with the revolution.
nr,i nuin nm si-n
CL'MMI.MiH. (IH1:1:N. lll.'liltKM. LOCK-
A HT. .Mel.At'tilll.lN. MA.WVKI.I,. PAIt-
XS. I'KNMXOTUN, KANtlAI.I,.
lti:ili. JA.Mi:s M.. shot by pullceman In
Ity of Me -tli ). '
I'owi.Klt. WII.I.IAM K. murdered by
pi'tnii. In 'era Cruz In 1U.
CltfTCIII'MM.U. (iKuUCK, murdered In
Wr.t Vrui
UotiMAN, ItoY M., murdered by bjrid
ne.tr Aeipnlrn.
IIIUV. SA.MI IJI.. murdered by robbers, San
t.US J'ntifl
POI.U. ln.nmtT. killed In Xw.r Cali
fornia while l-.idlns a raid.
CAItHOI.l.. JiiH.v n. i murdered at
AUtno h Mexican Federals.
! KOSTKlt. till. Al.l.UN 1.. same place and
iini.
lSI.KX.vns PATftfCK. Ktme.
WILMS, .MILTON K., shot In quirrel,
l.i f'tl-fornla.
l'KLHA.M. OSCAIl M. killed near me.
I'.iiliiic i . c.iu.e doubtful.
Mlsi'ellllneotia KlltlllK, I fill.
I WAITi: V II . In Vera firm, murdered.
I Vot'NTAINi;. THOMAS A. J., murdered
ri.-.ir t iiiniMiuit bv orozco rebels,
rp.f.MI.nv. HAItttV. ti.-ar Mlchoacan. by
,..rvtit
AYHKx. IIOM'A.V. 'murdered by robb-rt.
snit' plac
HltooKS, JOHN J., killed by ebels In
riLlls'l'irVtv Klt.vr.ST s. murdered by
M-vlraii rltliun at I'achura.
nmmiALt:'" "msHoi': .'LAllK. r.,,. -
i.i.tti: joxks, lvwton, lksheu.
MeCI.I'.M.A.VIl.
SWA.AY I IS II V
uoir.it, miui r-
MUerllniit-itns KllllnH', IOI..
AIM MS . lU-i'KKIIKIKK. fltAWToUD.
HAI.lMlll. HAIIVHV. MKTITII, HKTKIt -
.MAN. sTKVKNS, TIIO.M l'fJX,
, K ' s. ".
,; '-l-eul deputy killed In a conflict
, Uhniiie.,,, -rT
r,:'.1-."- Ar" . ."a'"e not given, du.' to
. . ""'' ."" ine i.orner.
il.i 1.1 ,.1.1 M. .ll'A.N. iXPIIt.l hv rr
.ll'A.N. r-cute. by or-
,.r.,ra.'Snr,al!iis1,retr""' '
Tev.i. n.,:,Bcr nid Annrlean rlter truird
killed tiy lundl-. ti. ir I'elarla, Mevirp
VronVV..?!.',
tan r.-ihieri. mi tialn.
An .vnnric.in tra'.iinun xiik.i near Juares
bv M.-klt.,
tddlera
IHIll'llltT.
iKlllllli: A., killed by ,l,nt
ai ri-s bor.l.-r at Juarez.
An Aaieiliuii nam- not slven. nt Douglas,
Arl.
noi.LV. lli:il.S.MIi. klll.-d near
tnoudvill'. Mi.taiunrts ilUtrl.-f.
ll.i).
Ill l.N A VI l;.
l,i In. lid.
HONi:r.VIO. killed near
AO-TIN. A I., killed at home by ban-
.III-, repiirte.i by ChiimiI at Matanioras.
AC-TIN CIIAItl.KS. same
.ILVSLN. CHAIH.KS, I. Ilk 1 watch.
man at l.yr.ir.l k 1 1 . M itamoras
DON VI.DSON II i:.. and J. T SMITH.
murdered al rr..r.o. trark. Mat.tmor.ia
Ml.MiAI.L, i n si ii.-r, killed by bandits In
train r.d.l.. rj near HioHnsvllle.
American soldiers killed In American
teiiltni on account of Mexican border
roubles
1911 Tun soldier.
Niioi. Ill Anuust.
unnamed, killed at
1!I i -VYAItWIt'K, WtLLtAM S,. killed by
.hot' ili.'.i across tho bot.Ur durlnK bat
lie nf .Iti ire,;
MM-iirtiii:. onop.oi: it, ktied in skir.
inl.h with Mexican bandits, Alice ro.id,
Texas
VMMillvr- I.P.o i , killed In .klrmlsli
wlili Mexli-an bandit raiding pari. .Mr.
Wll.l.vtAN. JOHN killed hv lira from
Mexican slit, at rroreso 1 err)
K It A IT AN I Hon v. killed lii skirmish
wltli M .lean bandit rub Hue part) al
F(I.5lNKV,,,'-M,,',hulT:r; sk.rml,., wlih
Mex 1 i.aii.lii raiding party .11 Lo.
lli.lnUl.iii.il. Texas
,STI'lllll.i:ru:i.H IlllS'ltV. killed In HI-
Vr"K"''" v"n ",nc" hy M'N'"'n
Mi'l'lKK1" VI 1 1 1 : It r T. k.llrd b) Mevlii
ban. Ill raldlinr ptrl) during holdup near
llrow nst Hie Tex
line t.aro at 0111 di Anna, T
iovei! .MXItTIN s. killed b Vlcxliall
rablll.,: pa.ll al Ol.i lie ARila. Tex
M" ...Will. I. Illllllllllt 1, kllle.l by Me.x
. 111 nil. III. 11 piri. Olo do Aeu.i. Tex
-- . "T , r 1 rI . 11 '"' 'i"'
r"" ",r,,'r during attack nn Aku.i
! ' Ma
I -l''S 11-. I l!1t .1. killed b tiring aero..
1 burin r din . 111: attack nil Aglla Prlela
, l.rjTl.i:. .-TI'.VIl.V killed b5 Cirran.. men
1 "!,"!'!,,., ,""""klns 'he coiiip.111) for part)
of VIIII.ISH
The total number of American soldiers
kllle.l In Ihe above list Is sixteen
MARQUIS GAVE AN I. 0. U.
Lord hrrdren Without
I'll lids
When epnrated From Ills Wile,
Piiu.Aiii'.i.riiM. Feb. 17 The Marquis
land Marchioness of Aliei.leen canin Inlo
'Philadelphia this aiternoou nnd Loi.l
I Aberdeen told how lie and Ills wile got
' sepainteil at Jiirksnliville, I'la , he gel-
ting on the Atlantic CnaM express and
she nn Ihe sealioaid .Mi Line.
"Fiiiliiuatclv," he said, "Ihe tialns inn
plclty ch.sr. toeaih olhei and wlau we
got In s-avaiinali nut pally came In-
uclher again "
Lcild Micl'ileeii hlmstlf dldn t tell that
he bad In give (be dining car slcwaiil
an I. ". I' for Ills liuu hi on 1iec,ni.'
Lady Aberdeen had lln luinls. 'Pli.it
newe cdin Irani vaoueiiKei,
1
Secretary Gives Senate Five
Year History of Watch-
fill Waiting.
3IANY OF PAllTlCULAltS
ASKED ABE KEPT OUT
Nothing Said Almnt "Death
Warrant"' Orders at
Vera Cruz.
INCOMPATIBLE WITH
PUBLIC 1NTEKEST"
Beport Approves Carranza
Bule Compares Toll
With Former Years.
Washington, I'eb. 17. At least
ninety-three Americans have been
killed In Me.lco since President Wil
son entered the White Hoiihe.
A statement submltteti to thn Sennit
to-day by Secretary Laiislim in re
sponse to a resolution gives a list f
seventy-six Americans who lost tltrir
Uvea In tho southern republic In Hie
. ..... .... , -.. , .
i '". 'it nun .'i.
course, does not Include the scvent en
Americans massacre.' by Villa bandits
early in January, so that the known
list now totjds ninety-three.
In uddltlon to this Secretary l.an
aliiK discloses that twenty eHilliu
Americans In those three e.trn -ind
slxti't-n American soltlleis were ll d
on American sol. us the result of
border troubles. Thus thn total nf
Americans who were officially . -kliowledKcd
to have perished it, 12'J.
The statement siibmltttil by Mr
Ionising to the Senate to-day Is tin
til-si list that the Wilson Admliilsii-.i.
tion ever hn.t made public of tin- i-i.-s
of American life III .Me.Mcu. The )
llltion which called forth tn-iiav ma
clusurc was Introduced by ft in.tor
i l'all tif New .Mexico, Itcliillilic.in
...
i In uddltlon to the list of iiuni" S''0-
'tary Lansing sent i,( th,. Scii.tiu a
. long stlitemi nt In reply In ntlier ill-
1 f"..atl,.n calltd for by the Pal. ,,-,u.
union. inn- M-civiaiy i.aiisin. me;
the demands nl tin- Senate 111 Millie
pal lleiilars. his leport as a whole u.ih
regal deil n more untiilile fur what it
I failed to dlsc!i.e tlllill for the nift.i .
,,.., ,.. ,i,.., ,, ..,..,i
! "i'1111"' thai II t niitailleil
Wilson HlocLa llt-talU.
Many especttd ,i lull ami fi,tiA
stateinent nf the entile .Mexii.tn sii
uatloii In 'in the Ailinliilstrall.iti. buv
, -Mr- LailMllg. .ictlllu on the I'r.'sitli Ill's
"ri1 ." '" -
encial vn anil replied that inileli of
, ll t. detalli'd matter called fur could
I- lun.isM.,1 because It would la.l
i be "cniii.,itili!c with lint public uil'-i -
est" tn u.
Among the stcnitic.ini oin.r.siins n the
icjiort wcic the naval unlets which
Senator F.ill inists were Issued to the
1'ulte.l State marines who laud.. I u
Vtr.t Cruz. Senator Fall has i..-t r.lictl
the-e .mlcrs ,i.s "de.tUi wairante " iLi
tnnteiKlcil that the ..r.l.rs picvcntci h,.
1 1 1 .t it 1 1 - fiiini tir ne iip"n the Mi s. .ic-
untll alt.-r lhc li.nl I. ell 111. '.I up !,u
in th. latici c.i-c liny were, iw i
in.il.'.l. in it piTinltti.l tn in.. I., tin i III'.'
tieuiT.it. but tu locate the ,Mcl... ". Ii
tired th- Him
Another iini. .!.! oinls-loii w.i ' ,.
l...-..in.l.'iue wliiclt . .!.--.. I I.eUMiii the
liiazilian Amli.irs.idni u Mexnn i ty
wli.le be was tcpicM iiiini; the I'm ,1
St.ilci an. I the Si.ne (icparinienl
Senator Call i iillt.'li.l.-il tll.it if lire nr
1 1 sponilcnce weie plnilllceil ll wnul'l i.pen
the eyes of the American puiple tn wi n
li.i. I been going on in Mexno m mi.-i. h
way as In lorcc action b the iltn.-ni
tncnl.
Approves ihe I'lrsl Itlef.
Ml' leinsliiK in Irs i ..nun j i . . . .1
hi
speaks approv inuly of t he i '.c 1 .111 i-
fin lit .mil st.vs that in P. -e. fry
wlll. li il rniitlole I 'r. .tllol Ii "le.,.. ei.
" ""l'-; Pnie-tlon .0 ,h. live ..,
laop- 'ly of Amel leans.
Set 1 1 1 a ry Llll-lllg sue.- fimlitr ,1,1
suggests, that In the lulls nl Mtxnnit'
.ontrolleil hv bantlUs I'lrlher nn.
"I"'!' Ill'' anil pinpeit) in.iv b. exp. - I. .
'He tnnleiid- lli.il Cnr.iii.i . .mniit p
down b.iiidil'i y Imnn-ti.itiiv mil lit 1 1
Seel. din) l,.ilsing seel,- In i niKloni a
leeni'il ol Aiiiii'ican livis lo-l in Mi x
-nice l ! l :i bv ciimpaiiin; n wnh o .i'. of
the picvinus Inree v ear peiu.l In i'-
perlml ti'oni 1'in to IM- lint ' -seven
Amel lean livre weie l.isl, bill Mr. Uiti-lit:
niids by vvav nf suppnrllng I he Ismi
Adiiiluistralion thai In these three 5e.n1
the 1 ..lilt! 1 i was inll.il lies tiirblileiil lb in
in the llific vein's lioni l!'l" in Ji.
when r.-teiiD-s x Anicrlcitis peri1ied
The txpe. t.itiim 11 Washington in-.ji.
is that the Lansing report w .11 serve in
sl.r up i.ilhei than to allay Hie dehc
Ui the Sen. lie mer Mexico, i hi l.nlure
nl' the Admin stratum to meet lull; i 10
demand of ihe Fall icsoltitlon vv II ,o-ve.
as one ground nf attack, while Ihe ;en.
ii.il lone of the 1..H' '" coiiinut 'catlnil,
which seeks tn mlnuuin the I.isk uf
1str.1l1.mV ret --r.1 by glossing 1 vet .!
1 lads will b- bitterly nttuiin'il
Sc. 1 fl,tr Lansing's stntcini t 1 follows
"The lesilutmn .nlnple.l b.v the I'nlted
j Stale- Senate mi .l.iini.iiy il. iniC. te.
'questing to be furnished, If not in.-oin
p.ttihlc with the public mliusls. win
....-iiiiiints, lriei, icpmt- 1 ,tc
tclatlng In nn .Mexitau I 1 I1.1v
ng been rciei'mi n.v you f 1 ic p
ptrtmenl nf Mat. fm 11 pint. I ivc ill
ii nf In s lie afn 1 1 trues 11 solera
t no 11 the leqllC I I III. I g I Of .'Ull't.
null I- 1 r I ii put uiei.l I.. 1 g-ru ti'
uubjutt lur a. pcuuii vl scvtul aj- ttul
