THE RONAN PIONEER
Tom1 the Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
Enteod as second-class matter May 12, 1910, at the post
offier at Ronan. Montana, under the Act of March 3, 1S79.
VOL. VI. NO. 43. RONANr, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, FEBRUARY 18, 1916. $2.00 Per Year
OOIENAI lIMES
ON BBOWER CASE
The Kootenai Times, published at
Libby, the county seat of Lincoln coun
ty, where Mr. Brower was taken to
answer the charge of violating the
game laws of the state of Montana,
under the caption, "Brower Case Is
Dismissed-Circumstances Show Mis
soula Senator's Arrest Due to Political
Spite Work," prints the following:
The much advertised preliminary
hearing of Senator A. J. Brower and
his business associate, W. S. Hollings
worth, both prominent gentlemen of
Ronan, the former state senator from
Missoula county, was heard in Libby
Saturday afternoon before A. L. Mor
ris, Justice of the Peace. It was a
lively little hearing, as preliminary
hearings go, as long as it lasted, but it
lasted pretty quickly.
The case against A. J. Brower was
called first, B. F. Maiden representing
defendant, and at the conclusion of the
state's testimony the county attorney
moved the court that the action be dis
missed without prejudice. This on
account of the failure of evidence on
the part of the state's witnesses. John
Backus, one of the witnesses of the
state, on advice of counsel, refused to
testify. He was represented in court
by Montgomery G. Rice. The other
testimony that the state had introduced
was of practically no consequence, so
the state was left without any evidence
at the end or their case. What Backus
might or might not have testified to,
he alone knows at this time. He exer
cised his constitutional privilege of re
fusing to testify and there the matter
rested.
Senator Brower has received some
rather unpleasant publicity and notor
iety by reason of his arrest and trial
in this case and the way some of the
Democratic papers in Flathead county,
notably the Kalispell Bee, have been
parading their venom against the hon
orable state senator from Missoula
county simply because he happened to
be a republican shows somewhat the
'nigger in the woodpile," and plainly
there is a "nigger in the woodpile" in
this entire matter. At the last ses
sion of the legislature Senator Brower
led the fight in an effort to have the
state game warden's office done away
with and the business of protecting
game placed in the hands of the sher
iff's office of the several counties,
urging it as an economical measure.
Failing that, he endeavored to have a
law Ipassed whereby the state game
warden's office would stand the ex
pense of the prosecution at trials of
people charged with violation of the
game laws. In that, too, he was un
successful by reason of the large ma
jority of democrats in the senate who,
stood by their governor and governor's
satelite in maintaining this political
machine which parades under the name
of the state game warden's office or
department at the expense of the peo
ple.
The prosecution against Senator
Brower was largely fathered and
pushed by the deputy state game war
den of Missoula county. It has cost
Lincoln county $250 or $300. It has
placed tha county attorney's office of
Lincold county in an embarrassing
situation. The complaint was filed and
warrant issued during the absence of
Mr. Blackford and doubtless if he had
been here personally at the time and.
had personal charge of the matter and
known of the flimsiness of the testi
mony that the game warden's depart
inent really had against Senator
Brower, the warrant never would have
been issued. Of course all this special'
activity on the part of the state game
warden and deputies from outside of
this county with regard to matters
in Lincoln county is a further slam at
the local game warden, Herman Bock
man, Sr.. who was required to sign the
formal complaint in the matter and as
sume part of the burden in the matter
of conducting a. losing fight that was
framed up by one or two of his asso
ciates in the game warden's office. The
protection of the game in our county
and state is a seriaus matter that all
public-spirited, law-abiding people are,
interested in. The violations of the
game laws are often the result of a
thoughtless holiday spirit that pervades
hunting camps where good fellowship
and a good time tend to induce in some
people a slight regard for the law
where otherwise they are unquestion
ably substantial, law-abiding citizens.
There is absolutely no testimony pro
duecd in this case tending to show that
Senator Brower or W. S. Hollings
worth committed any unlawful act of
any kind while on their hunting trip in
the Wolf creek country in Lincoln
county last fall and if the administra
tion of the game laws, here in our coun
ty had been left to the initiative of our
own capable local officers there would
have been no unnecessary expense of
$200 or $300 saddled upon Lincoln
county in this exhibition of political
venom that apparently actuated the
prosecution of Senator Brower and Mr.
Hollingsworth by the game warden's
department.
We do not at all believe or subscribe
to the old-time theory that prevailed
in Libby a few years ago that the
statutes of Montana, especially with
regard to the game laws, did not apply
west of Wolf creek and we do want to
see the game laws properly and rigidly
enforced but the sort of exhibition that
the outside officers of the game ward
en's department made in their perse
cution of Senator Brower from Mis
soula county does not assist at all in
creating a proper sentiment and sup
port of the game laws and further pro
tection of the game in our county."
The Pioneer believes in a square deal
and therefore gives its readers the
privilege of reading the deductions of
a newspaper man who attended the
hearing of Senator Brower and who is
personally acquainted with all the ins
and outs of the case. Every man has his
enemies and every man has his friends.
Senator Brower has enemies who
would like to see him convicted whether
guilty or not. Some of these men have
censured the Pioneer for not "going
after" Mr. Brower, and even gone so
far as to assert that the paper, or the
publisher, or both, is under the control
of that gentleman. And others, almost
on the same day, asserted that another
business man owned the paper, pub
lisher and all. The fact of the matter
is, certain of Ronan people would like
to use the newspaper to get even with
some one, and if they can't do it, then
the other fellow owns the editor. But
just as a gentle hint, once and for all,
we state positively that E. H. Rath
bone is running the Pioneer and that
no man on earth can dictate its policy
or use it for the purpose of "getting
even', with some one against whom he
has a personal spite.
Since the last issue of the Pioneer it
has been announced in the daily press
that a charge of conspiracy will now
be brought against Mr. Brower. Fail
ing in the first case, another may be
attempted, but we doubt it. In case
another charge is made and Mr. Brower
is hauled into court, the Pioneer will
publish the facts, but it will not
knowingly be used to besmirch the
name and character of any citizen of
our community to gratify the wishes
or desires of any individual or political
machine.
COMPLETE STATE TICKET
WILL OPPOSE MACHINE
It is announced from Helena that an
organized fight to a finish within the
party will be made on the Democratic
administration in this state, according
to Joseph Kirschwing, of Great Falls,
and Miles Romney of Hamilton, both
prominent for many years in Demo
cratic councils in Montana. Mr. Kirsch
wing served two terms in the lower
house from Cascade county, and Mr.
Romney served as state senator from
Ravalli county, and was one of the
chief factors in the People's Power
League, which was responsible for
placing the initiative laws now in force
on the statute books.
Incidentally, Mr. Kirschwing admit
ted he will be a candidate for the nom
ination on the Democratic ticket for
United States senator to succeed H. L.
Myers. Months ago Mr. Romney an
nounced his candidacy for the Demo
crttic nomination for governor in oppo
sition to Governor S. V. Stewart.
Dixon For Roosevelt
Senator Joseph M. Dixon, editor of
the Missoulian, announces that he will
be a candidate for delegate to the com
ing republican national convention.
He says: "In order that no misunder
standing may arise to the effect that I
might be acting with the knowledge or
consent of Theodore Roosevelt or other
real or alleged leaders, in either state
or union, I will say that I am taking
this step on my own personal respons
ibility." Again he says: "I will now
state that my own judgement is that
the best solution of the situation is that
both conventions (republican and pro
gressive) unite in the nomination of
Theodore Roosevelt as the candidate of
a reunited, and, I believe, a triumpnant
republican party."
The primary for the election of dele
gates to the national convention will be
held on April 21st.
NIERICAPAYS MOMAGIE ~TO
llR FIRST PRESIDIENT
SEAR~CH in the plains I
here flashed the
sword of Washington.
What find you there?
Tombs ? No; you find a
world. Washington has
left behind him the United
States as a trophy of his
battlefields.-Chateaubri
and.____
POLICE UNEARTH
ANARCHIST PLOT
Chicago, Feb. 15.-Captain Nicholas
Hunt of the detective bureau, who is
directing the search for Jean Crones,
the missing assistant chef, who is sus
pected of having poisoned the soup
served at a banquet to Archbishop
Mundelein here last Thursday, said
the search has developed the exist
ence of a gang of fifteen anarchists
whose grudge lay principally against
the church aid churchmen.
Captain Hunt said he had the names
of most of the members and that de
tectives have been instructed to search
for them.
Captain Hunt named Frank Alie
grini, in whose rooms anarchistic let
ters and literature were found, a's one
of the men. The names of the alleged
anarchists are said to have been tak
en from these letters. They were
written in 1913 and are said to dis
close a widespread plot, extending to
Rome, Italy, to destroy churches and
church property of all creeds.
According to Detective Sergeanl
Paul Rissio, who aided in translatine
the letters from the Italian in which
they were written, the lieadquirters
of the society was in Rome. Efforts
were made, it is said, to organize
branches of the society all over the
world.
Most Letters Unsigned.
In the United States public building
were to receive the attention of tie
anarchists, in addition to the churches.
Most of the letters were without ci
nature.
The first of the letters, unaddressed
and unsigned, goes into details of a
lomb invented by the writer,
"This," says the letter, "will be a
fine thing to throw among a lot of
religious people when they go out
dressed in their best clothes on tie
boulevards to talk the sermon over."
The second letter mentioned the re
ceipt of a letter from Allegrini.
"I read your letter and am glad you
are taking interest," it said. "Hut I
will recommend you to be careful with
your pals, because there may be some
traitors among them who cannot tell
a lie to fool justice."
The most of the letters were not
made public. All, it was said, showed
blank spaces which apparently were
understood by the correspondents.
Several maps and drawings were
found. They were said to indicate
that the plotters had designs on the
People's Gas Light and Coke building
of Chicago and other costly strue
tares.
Major Newell, Midget, Dead.
New York, Feb. 13.-Relatives of
Edmund Newell, Jr., a midget who
was widely known in the circus and
theatrical world as Major Newell,
have received news of his death in
Liverpool. He was the son of Mrs.
Ssarih E. Newell of Newark, N. J.
TALENTINE PARTY
SOCIAL SUCCESS
The Valentine party given in Scearce
hall last Monday evening by Ross Le
mire was admittedly the social event
of the season. One hundred and twen
ty-five invitations were issued, the
major portion of which included two
people, and easily two-thirds of the re
cipients responded by their presence,
making it the largest party of its kind
ever given in Ronan.
The dancing hall and three other
rooms on the second floor of the Scearce
block used for the occasion were beau
tifully and artistically decorated, all in
harmony with Valentine's day, Ross
Holloway had charge of the decor
ations, ably assisted by Miss Azelie
Savage, Miss Barbara Kain, Mrs. Put
ney, Lloyd Wallace and Charley Allen.
The decorations were elaborate and
elicited the unstinted praise of every
guest.
A ladies' reception committee com
posed of Mesdames Broughton, Ster
ling, Sheen, Foster, Putney, Miss Sav
age and Ross Lemire, and a men's com
mittee composed of Messrs. Sterling,
Broughton. Wallace, Holloway, Stans
bury and J. A. Lemire, welcomed and
cared for the guests.
Punch bowls presided over by the
Misses Alice Sheen, Evelyn Grant and
Gertrude Lemire were numerous and
always well filled.
Excellent music was furnished by the
Ronan orchestra of five pieces and
Lloyd Wallace and Ross Holloway as
floor committee, did their work admir
ably and to the entire satisfaction and
pleasure of the many dancers. Inter
spersed with the dancing, many pleas
ing stunts were pulled off to the amuse
ment of all.
Lunch was served from 11:30 until
1:30 under the efficient direction of the
Misses Azelie Savage, Hilda Marsh,
Barbara Kain, Anna Rafferty, Celina
Carron and Winnie Brown, the re
freshments being provided by the
ladies of Ronan.
A prize waltz was one of the features
of the evening and the honor was
awarded to Miss Savage of Ronan and
R. N. Shannon of Missoula, and each
drew a kewpie to horde up among other
treasures.
The party was given in honor of the
St. Ignatius Dancing club and that it
was appreciated by the members was
attested by the attendance and un
questionable good time all gave evi
dence of enjoying from 9 o'clock until
3 o'clock in the morning.
The out-of-town invited guests were:
St. Ignatius--Messrs. and Mesdames
E. F. Tabor, G. H. Beckwith, M. H.
Meglasson, L. K. Doty, George and
Joe Buckhouse, Harry Caden, S. G.
Swigart, R. M. Lincoln, Floyd McCall,
H. P. Matson, V. G. Evans, A. P.
Morse, Leon Gentil, Fred Watson, E.
A. Chilson, A. W. Nelson, Joel E.
Cushing, the Misses Grace Saner, Grace
Lorentz, and Ruth Johnson, and
Messrs. Andrew Beckwith, A. K.Lusk,
Thomas Payne, Ray and Lee Bigger
staff, Brown, Cox, Peter Beebe, Chas.
Walkenstein, Forest Johnson, E. T.
Decker, Dr. Mathews, H, S. Tooper,
F. C. Crosby, Tom Meod, J. M. Aiken,
M. C. Christopher, and D. I. Bosworth.
Ravalli-Mr. and Mrs. Roscoe Hull,
Mr. and Mrs. G. D. Pendray, Mr. and
Mrs. J. E. Broom, Miss Lottie Fowler,
Messrs. Louis Thomas aud Caska
Allen.
Leon-Mr. and Mrs. Robert Bennett
and Miss Cordelia Bennett.
Poison-Mr. and Mrs. M. A. Myhre.
Missoula----Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Ken
nedy, Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Thibodeau,
Mr. and Mrs. G. Deschamps, Jr.,
Misses Helen McLeod, Edith Herwig,
Mildred Maloy, Loretta, Edmee and
Julietta Deschamps, Adine Cyr and R.
N. Shannon.
Sloan- -Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Mahoney.
ENTIRE WESTERN
FRONT IS ACTIVE
London, Feb. 15.-The whole west
ern fighting front is the scene of en
gagements.
At some points the guns have been
roaring incessantly for days, the in
fantry has been engaged in hand to
hand struggles; grenade fighting and
mining operations have played a prom
inent part in the battles, while airmen
have fought each other above the
lines and have been cannonaded from
below by aircraft guns.
The Germans followed up their re
cent success In Champagne by the
capture of an additional half mile of
French trenches around Taliure, in
that district, and the artillery bom
bardments in the neighborhood of Mas
siges and Navarin have been answer
ed in kind by the French,
In upper Alsace the Germans turned
loose their guns on trenches , the
French had captured from them, but
the French during the night had evac
uated them and the shelling did no
other damage than to shatter the em
placements.
Seventeen fights in the air is the
record of Sunday, reported officially
by the British along their lines in
Flanders.
In addition there has been great ac
tivity south of Labasse canal, where
the Germans exploded seven mines.
Heavy bombardments and an infan
try attack in that section also is re
ported, the Germans succeeding in en
tering a British trench. They were
driven out almost immediately.
STRICTER BLOCKADE URGED
London Meeting Asks That Navy Be
Given More Power.
London, Feb. 15.-A largely attend
ed meeting 10 urge the government to
establish a more effectual blockade
against the 'entral powers was held
in London. laron Devonport, chair
man of the port authority of London,
presided.
The discussion hinged on the follow
ing resolution:
"That this meeting of citizens of
London, viewing with grave alarm the
enormous quantity of commodities
reaching the enemy through the North
sea, calls on his majesty's government
to give our navy freedom to exercise
fuller and more effective use of our
sea power In the war."
AMERICAN GIFT TO FRANCE
Two Wealthy Citizens Give Goveru
ment Hospital Train.
Paris, Feb. 15--A hospital train of
thirteen cars, the gift of two wealthy
Americans, was presented to the
French government.
Laurence V. Genet, former member
of the chamber of commerce in Paris,
made the presentation address.
Justin Godart. under secretary of
state for sanitary service, accepted the
gift.
He declared that the friendship of
Americans for France is traditional.
England to Vote Credit.
London, Feb. 15.--ht is expected the
next vote of credit will be introduced
soon after parliament reassembles.
The statement is made unofficially
that the vote will be for £250,000,000,
ringing up the total of war credits
to £1,912,01)0,000.
Roumanian Army Ready.
Paris, Feb. 1:,.--lHoumanian's inobi
libation is now complete, said an ohil- 1
cial statement given out lure. Thi
western and Danubian defenses havi
been finished.
RESERVATION~
MIS~OVLA LINE
At last there has been a movement
inaugurated that has all the appearance
of success in securing the long desired
transportation for the lower Flathead
country.
The present highly prosperous con
dition of this wonderfully productive
valley has brought the men of the re
spective reservation towns to the real
ization that factional and local jeal
ousies and interests must be submerged,
and there is now a marked tendenby
for efficient cooperation in the securing
of the much needed railroad facilities.
The situation is unique as regards the
attitude of the trans-continental rail
roads toward this productive area. The
roads crossing the continent were,
without exception, built at a time when
the available traffic was but a modicum
of that relatively high production of
the lower Flathead valley, and yet we
are told by the three trans-continental
systems most interested that the pres
ent available traffic of this country in
question is of insufficient quantity to
warrant the building of a short branch
line that will stimulate development
five hundred fold in five years.
From the financial standpoint of the
corporations controlling the economic.
development of rich regions thickly
peopled, the above argument may be
well and good, but here it is different.
The traffic of this section of the coun
try, such as it is, will eventually reach
their lines of transportation, so why go
further? This is the attitude.
But at last the people of the reser
vation towns and country, and of their
nearest sister city, Missoula, and of
that more remote but nevertheless
potent factor, Spokane, are stirring to
action. There is already a very strong
movement backed by men of means
and experience that will soon begin to
bear fruit in tangible results.
The financial returhe to be secured -
from a properly located line to Mis
soula are easily observed to be mn
questionable as compared with any
other possible line. It is particularly
pleasing that a corporation should pass
the woad to the best inland city in Mon
tana that it would not build a line with
in one and one-half miles of its present
site, and thereby put a quietus on all
investments and improvements for a
long period of time. It is furthermore
especially fortunate that the same cor
poration should arrest development in
the best lake city in Montana by show
ing upon its maps and laying down in
its surveys that the probable line, if
built at all, would traverse several
miles to the east of the Niagara Falls
city of the west.
With the above facts in mind and
wearying of the "watchful waiting"
policy, the business and professional
men of Ronan have called a meeting of
the "live wires" of the reservation to
be held in Ronan on Saturday evening,
February 19th, for the purpose of dis
cussing ways and means of effecting an
organization for active work of begin
ning surveys and securing rights-of
way, and otherwise making available
the engineering and financial data nec
essary to accurate estimates of cost,
traffic and returns from the investment.
About a month ago Ronan parties
interested started the ball rolling by
securing the interest of a traction mag
nate in the state of Washington, and
received from him substantial offers of
assistance. Engineer Earl D. Covell
of Ronan, has discussed the matter
with financial interests and with mem
bers of the chamber of commerce of
Missoula, presenting engineering data
of importance which tends to show the
absolute practicability of the proposi
tion from an engineering standpoint.
"We Want a Million" Harbert of
Poison, in his usual virile way, has
been promulgating t he rapid organiza
tion of resources, and the fact that
Harbert is coming to the Ronan meet
ing speaks volumes for the merit of
the project. Attorney Walter Childs
of Poison, has gathered considerable
data relative to the proposed line and
it is expected his presence at the Ro
nan meeting will do much to present in
an intelligent manner the features to
be solved. The business men of St.
Ignatius have signified their interest
in the matter and are ready to take
substantial action that will give St.
Ignatius its only chance for a railroad.
Attend the meeting Saturday night
and lend your assistance to the pro
ject if by no other means than your
presence and good will.
Turkish Batteries Silenced.
Petrograd, Feb. 15.-The Russian
Black sea fleet silenced a portion of
the Turkish shore batteries near Nletz
during a heavy bombardment, it was
oflicially announced here.
