B iH
I inciiuasia Tin: nnitoMioN. JfSSSS? yr -rZZ et-?- g,, P 99
I vjlc-ti,ingdoc a supreme service for mankind U hrMM IN. bM.hu. fjfV S -ftlS'F234fc?i ul 91
I wlts of the public It Instructs as to t,unlli) and prke ilZct!!'.'?! jfvlll I rl?l3EAxff KS52SV v tfv A. A. B
I Ire and promotes satisfaction between customer and mi"nt "" ll II I HI II JLm&MWF? SfcSkml Ml liKlll I JH
I 'Arsons who habitually rend the ndxtrtl,ementi In tK ' nBn4 w. vfc " . 1 I lt mWSffiVf ggm I I 1 II I'M
n reUg their education h to merclmndl,e Thk, fe n athr wBJJ V J!L lilrJ (SSV 11 11 11 IL I'M
mm anMearnlnir how to bu The learn how to get thTwwih P ?P'a jT" r"gfcj' 'l!5k' ife' T I'Bfll
I knd8the advertisements In The Sun n. an educaUon a, a , war POLITICALLY, REPUBLICAN. I 1
to learn how to tun o mone) """" T Kntercd on Second Claw Matter June I 1916 at tho 1 t t ffl e at Prl e t tnh t noer the Act of Mnr h 3 U7 ft 11
I g VOLUME 1; NUM11ER 38 EVERY ntlDAV I'DHRUAUY 18, 1916 fill
I BUYERS SEEKING
I ONLY THE CHOICE
vrriiiM 'sl IN riiii: vi
B Ml. SMISI'MNO.
B kirrp mid IjiiiiIh Sold UfUtn to
I Tnrnl) nt Higher tlm I I ml or
B ilio Wctk t Mlwiurl Itlvcr Miir.
kcl- l'rliv t I'olnt Where) I'ailirr
B nn)im l" Ut coming Mot Irltlinl
I i rrM mlcnce Tht Hun
B KVNSvHCITY Mo. Teh 1 1 The
B f er market wn uiisnllsfattor) lust
Trk I tit there In n recovery toda)
ith sale strong to ten eentii higher
B J iijfr wanted mmc Rood to choltt
Hj ittle toda) lul top was 18 CO liclng
H h'lil down l Inck of flnlali In the of
IB brings. omo plain cattle of Rood
llit sold nt 17 10 to 7.7S todn),
B thli tin gelling the leant ndtnntc
B fmr of the shippers here Inst week
1 int thrlr tattle to other mnrket In
I the hoe of getting more mono, but
vtn I t forwarded lout inone) b) the
Titration 1iiwtn ranged from flft
- a hundred and flfl) dollar n car
j h r initio held up firm lust witk
f J art troti tda Cnttlemen !
i re with Mtl-frtdloti tin tn ml of
n I rl rit both klllerit ntul breedi ri
- f .T ifler all the urn Ik the IuikIh of
i i ittle trade ItertlptK toda are
r' r tin tiMnd hrnd and tmde wan
ti fr mi the Mart Market cftlb d
nu t ten cenln lilnlur In all de-
funtnt Home roiiKli WeMini pulp
i i-li to wiIkIiIiik I '30 poundM Willi
kilt n fit 17 78. nnd pulp fid bull
Kht IT 00 to it SO A Htrlmr of
I rid) urlliiKH mid tw' mild at
rot $7 o fle or xlx load at the
fl wlim wiiiic vtntiRtli In rtoik
It M nt of tho ft.dtm brltiK
" t 17 25 Home liltdltim to
mi ti iiuarinllne utecm Nold nt
' 10 1 1 10 tit and Mime plain Oklii-
h m tattle broiiRht IS 70 to $7 U
Tr .ctit rl n are mat) rlall) hlalier
n a i ar hko nt thU time
II K-i tin id ti the numlir of
' III tic tu I Iliad nit4 kiIik wire
K'l rteiul I'mkirx trlid to bii)
' m hem i r durlmc the flmt half of
f i I ut flnall) iHtld KtrmiK
' I 18 05 Hulk of wil
M . 1 1 l oo n Ipti at iiiont of tin
j rktU trran ontlmaten heiue tin
j mll t I U ihenpir but a Rood
HJ 1 r i ink demand with the prob
j i t II r llRhtir hiipi Hih latir In the
j rk laii tine the attempt to tit -
irlm and iHilmind the late
I arkit I Ik Ihim Ikiii III xlroiiR ilt
j nldtrliiKthi uut wiek, hiIIIiik at
j I 7rf t) 17x0 Hoxh are pretty IiIkIi
j In U of tin lurRo rieelpti but
j I bt tH iredltt a IiIr aiUami bi-
' ii a u and mimmer.
j Hheii and liuiil woltl (Kit in to
j tnt triitn hlKlur toda), lamlm k-
v t III 10 and i ucm to 17 60 Hulk
' the Riotl IhiiiIih III 00 ItidlllR
mUh ui rldii ut 110 30 and todu
I0'0 Itttelptu win tltMll
H ".Hi I t ida) Tin toliil uppl In
' iminR inoilerntt lrlitn are at a
ut when piukir bu)irn (irt lit Id to
J t a i untnblllt) for poor dn lim
j r lunto henu the) wntdi ilontl)
H fin ih and itmllt)
AROUND THE COFFEE URN.
m Sir 4Wvw J "Ir
hlbltliiR ii Idaho The mr turrlwt
mimple of varloun KMideK of wool
with nit IiohcI of llvi rheep to uliow
tliow himiU an they m mr oh Hip
nheepM bat k
H ft IhIUU HifompHMylHK the tar
are rhoMliiK tin Rrower tlwt It to
hi aihantaRe to Kratle wool for him
h If mt that he ttut), mII untlervtMiid
IiikI) and km w on what gradea In ran
make thr tn wt profit and breed at
lordliiKl) It I hIvh made plain to
Krowem who nu it.it know that the
market value of a flew meanuretl
b Hk won nil or whoIimI wpixht and
llitj ilwratter of the ftln-r
Tin Xuatralliu nytem now belim
MlireMTMlly ImIAmIih etl Into thin route
tr larxelr tliroliKli the effortu of J
IC I imitrirr of Halt Uke t'lty how
the ailtiinlHRe It la Mtltl of ImNliiK
tht RradlnK tlune In Ihe cliHrliik,
allvtla. h) whit h methotl the Wool f
Rradetl
Kiinii (It) Mnrkit
KNHSllT Mil 1'eb 17 at
tie ItwellilH, 2040 trolli? I'rlmi fed
uteint, 18 10 to tti US, tlniHMtl lo-ef
Hleim 7 00ol4IO Wenlern utetrn,
16 00 ti X 31 ttlmkern ami feetlera
16 00 to 17 76 lillbi It It to l7S.
tnHt 6I0 to 111 00
Hliwi KiH Iptu SOOtt (eitil)
Ijtinlw 110 30 to III 00 enrllnit
U It to 110 00, wetherii. 17 71 to
18 31 i we 17 1 to 17 7
Oiilllllil I hi MlKk.
OM Ml .Neb. I'eb 17 tattle
lleitiptn, 1300, marki t utead) .Nil
tli ilia. 16 31 to fR 76. eowa and
hilfim. I 3 to 16 21. Wmlvrn uttira,
16 00 to 7 7t, Texan nltfim It 70 to
1 16 70 clot ki rn anil feeder It 3t to
7 78
Hhup lit i lipid 00. miirkit
Ltiad) iirlliiKn 18 00 to 19 61
welhirn I73tto800 lamlm 110 40
to 111 00
I SHEEPMEN THOUSANDS OE DOLLARS
I AHEAD SINCE CHANCE OF WEATHER
It In estlmntetl that nt least a hundred thousand dollars has
JWi Racd sheepmen of Utah by the break In the weather In the
'1st ten days. The warmer temperatures hae tnken tho snows
from the winter ranges nnd not more thnn 25 per cent of the hay
I urchnsed for winter feeding has been used
A C. H. Stewart, secretnry of the UtnhStntoWoolKiowers nsso-
t'ntlon, has received letters from practically eery sheepralsltiK
fPctlon of tho state in tho last ten days and favorable conditions
pic reported from every iwint. . ,
B The break In the weather has not only saed tho sheepmen
thousands of dollars on the feed expense, but also has prevented
a heavy loss of animals from cold.
f.osi i s sin ,. 1N ir, t
B ut: ai ii is- iini: siii'i:
'HAM) JUNCTION, Colo, lib 12
7 V'0 riporl that aheep wiro dlnR
kQ !n I tah hai ltd mun to wondrr In
m not condition nre tint flocka owned
m 'r Mesa count) and Inquiry ha re-
fJHed In the Information that tho
oltn flocka which aro wintered
mi of T,,mpiioni aro In good con
union and the Ions In no moro than
normal it has been mceiiuty to
reed n few of the weak heep iiut
there haa been plenty of feed for the
'then There Ih nbout two feet of
now In that aectlon A ear ago the
na) fall of mow occurred eouth of
the l)ner and Illo Orande nnd thU
ar It U north of the line and thU l
where tho sheep are feeling the hard
winter
'M UN MUST WtlOIi OVH
ui: iirui: this month
Tltft wool demonHtratlon inr of the
department of agriculture, and In
which the agricultural college of the
etern Blaten are eopeulall) Inter-1
itcd, In expected In thU itate the lat
ter part of the month It U now ex-
MANY DtOS KILLED
Murrii) orrlduN lllkldl) Unfon Iiib
Ortlluiimv.
4. -f -l
4 MUltltAY, Feb 16 One hun-
4- drtd tlogx have been killed In
(Ills clt) the pant three weeka on
ordera of Dr. W II Itothwell,
ult) health officer, who U rigidly
onforcliw the licensing ordln-
l,ice s . .. ... X
Mujor MolIenr and I)r lloth-
well are co-operating with the,
itate board of health In meamirea
to prevent poaalble apread of the
rabliK , ,
Or Itothwell announce n that
aunltary lawa will be atrlctly en-
fort-td
4. 4. 4-
The locul loe crop la pretty well
hariealid At excellent quality, an
a whole has been atored
Gmoko Elk Pride Cigar. Tel 163
DENVER MAN WANTS
TO BUY COAL LANDS
With u lew of opcniiiK up coal properties In Utah and making
an Initial lnostment of at least a hundred nnd fifty thousnnd dol
lars, a representative of the Carbonado Coal company of Colorado
was in Salt bike City last Monday. J. II. Hutchinson of Denver,
Colo , one of tln principal officers of the company, stopped off on
his way to Denver from Ixs AiiKoles. to confer with J. E. Pettlt,
state coal mine inspector. The visit follow etl correspondence that
the company has had with I'ettit.
Two properties in Utah are bcliiK considered, according to
Hutchinson. One is n total of thirteen bundled nnd twenty acres
of patented land in the coal belt near Castle Gale. The other is a
tiact alwut one mile from the Denver and Ilio Grande. Other
tracts may bo considered nfter a pcisonul inspection.
Since the mine inspector wns not in Clou, Hutchinson pro
ceeded to Denver nnd will letuiii within u few weeks when he and
I'ettit will likely make a personal Inspection. "We will Invest n
bundled and fifty thousand dollars as an initial sum but, of course,
would expect to be tnkhiK out coal by that time." Hnld the Denver
man.
MODERN FIRE FIGHTING APPARATUS;
PAVED STREETS BEING CONSIDERED
Viator lloruli) and J II Mannon
tin Kpetlut tiimmlttii appoint! il b)
the ill) it until til InxentUati fire
flKhtlng aplMraiiJji luiltahln to the
iieitln of I'rlit, U purl A I to the ro un
til at a met ting lyjil VVidiiewlu) tun
ing flu gentlemen lulled Halt Uike
I'll) Murni), Sand) and l'urk Clt),
and Mililled, run full) the fire equip
ment of each plate All the townn
outnlde of Salt t-ukt- Clt) have hoiih
Kood Hpilinuut, but nil art willing
to tllnpiHie of It uml kel aoinethlng
more up Di dati Tho rommlllio
tin refore reeommi iuIihI to tho conn
til tin purthaHo of a niodtrn fire
fighting Hiulpment, a thrte-unlt au
tomobllo miuhlnu mull aa In In mr
vice In Hugar lloune dlntrlet of the
Hull Iike Clt) dtpartmeut Thla ma
thlipt eoinlilnm three featurea oliem
lial inglnt. nut Hon pump and liooo
and Itidtlir trutk and la the Vcr)
latent Idea In fin fighting npiuirutun
VV bile the font U eonnlderable, all
uumlern of eouncll ft It that It would
In a wine Invent infill Count II voted
mi bib Mm
Vim II. VV. MllllMim Kntirtnliin lor
Ilio I'lttrxru
Mm II VV Mlllburn havo a birth
day part) lunt rurda at her nlwa)
hoapltable home on Slain atreet In
honor of the nlnet) flmt blrthda) of
Jinn I'eternen father jlf Mra J a
Callow a) of I'rbe Cither plontera
Invited and present were Mm Jen
I'eternen, Mm Ljtjlft Mead, Hamuel
Hornle) nnd IjenO Mathln all of
them pant 80-ymrn of age Uongn
were nung ntorlea told and remlnln
cencea of the early dujs gono over,
An excellent dinner, lutli only an
Mra Mlllburn la tapablo of preparing
and nerving wn a feature Plcturen
of theHe mt III joung 'old folk' wero
taken luonduy wua nUo the eighth
blrthda) of Mr and Mm Mlllburn a
nun llerlert nnd thla wua also fitting
ly nbfcrvid Mrs Mlllburn alwni
enttrtalni he I'eternens on thla day
tied and white carnatlona were
glvin tach gueat prenont I-ater In
the day Mr Mlllburn'u guenta were
taken home In alelghn, whluh wan
greatly enJo)ed Mr II C Hmlth and
Mr. Mary Morrison aaiUted Mrs Mil-
to niieit the nport of the tommllteo
and I'rlte tlilien will noon ate In
nlitlleil it mm hint of the above t)n
The tlt linn made nrmngemt nle
with Sheriff llfiir) for tlio cure nnd
ft filing of til) prlnomr nt tho coun
l Jail nt a font of Hivent)-fli lillln
pir peraon ptr tlu) The old tlty
JmII wlili Ii haa lot 11 un i)eort to the
publlo for man) )iurn, will now be
ul uililouetl uml will probubl) le until
11 a a tool and nloro houne
Ma) or llornlt) In an eiithunlnnt on
the atrett paving retention, und If hi
will In the matter tsirrlen w muy we
the bunlpiaa ntretta pavid I ffore the
)enr In out Of lourne thin la entire
I) n matter at the dlntntlon of the
taxpu)irn, but tin ma)or nnd council
are might) nlrong advoiutia of Dili
luiprovemeiit
Counell voted to do ome necensur)
houne 1 If lining ut Clt) Hull uml up
lolntid a tommlttee of thrto of lla
memlera to take tharge of the work
The Interior will be painted through
out, whlih It la bntll) In ntul of
bum In the eutertulnnunt of Inr
bum In the entertainment
SECOND Mill COMINd
It. V, Slieiutr Again Doing Thlnpt In
oktrlto 1 ronton nl,
Colton ma) get an oxokerlle milling
plant, nccordlng to ndvlccs received
In Halt I.ake City b) aiaoclate of U
V Hhcarer who la now Lust on u
buslneas trip A tract of Miren hun
dred and eighty acres of the mineral
wax bearing land near Colton which
formerly was o vned by M V. Draff et,
II F. Caffey and C VV, fihorcs, re-
'cently panned Into Shearer a control,
and he has Indicated hi Intention to
construct there a mill nlmllur to the
one now I elng built by tho company
ut Boidler Hummlt
Tilt. Soldier Summit plunt will be
In operation nbout April 1st, It In
wild, and will have a capacity of three,
thousand pound of refined ozokerite
a tlu It will be equipped with ma
chlncr) designed b) It VV, nnd O J
Salisbury of Halt Iako Clt), who aro
said (o have solved the problem of re
fining the mineral wax on an econom-
lltal basis.
CRIMINAL CALENDAR fl
IS SMALL THIS TERM 1 1
Judge Christcnson Finishes Up Work of Emery f I
County Session and Comes to Price
On Monday Next. t m
Judge Albert it ChrlsleniHiti ion-
veiled dlntrltt itiurl for Hiner) ttulnt)
nl Canlle Dnli Innt Vlondn) nnd nt
noon Wedneadn) had eoneluded the
bimlneaH for Hie term There were bill
two trlmlnnl etifoa on the docket, that
of J Newman charged with ndulter)
nnd Andrew I'eleraon, perjur) Tlw
latter en no was dlemlMtd I) District
Attornt) Clnrr) for InnuffliUnt tvl
di nee to prosecute Newman pleaded
guilt) nnd wnn given nn Indettrmln
1U1 aentenie, which under Ihe atntutv
taunt I e for more than Ihne )enra In
state a prison Several prol nle and
tit II matters were illnpomd of, while
11 iniiiilur of ill II mm a went over to
the in xt term Judge Chrlnlennnu ar
rived In I'rlei VVidnendii) evening
nnd laltr left for bin houn at Mnnll
Vln Salt Ijike Clt)
Nt M Vlondn) Ftibrtmr) Slat Judge
( hrlniinnon returna to I'rlte and eon
vi ma tin Jauuar) term for Carbon
niiinl) TlUre aro four erlmlnul ennea
on the dm Ret Anna lllnnchnrd la
itoirK'ti nun iitiniiir), 1110 inno 01 log
I'ontlniiid from the last term n In
nlno the one of misdemeanor ngnlnnt
Vriiold MtKwnn Irn (inborn will
answir to the thnrgo of former) and
Jink l.ulher to burglar) III thu eel
mil degree The criminal ontniulur In
unite the smallest for it connldcrahl
lime In Carbon count)
,,'rheri an fort) -eight law and mo
tion tnre to In illnpond of b) the
court na llnti tl upon the enlemlnr and
a total of light probate times Tut it
t -tlirt r forilgntra are lelltlonlng the
court to becomo American iltUenn,
liiiludlng almost ivir) lintlnnulll) on
tin fin e of the globe HeVi nil of these
pt tltlntin come otr from pant It ruin
ill In expettid Judge Clirllcnon will flj
be here the greatt r part of two week h Bl
' he Jun nt for thlt term nre expect- J- BJ
etl to be In tourt on VV'ednesda), Feb- ' DflJ
ruary 3ld nt3oii.uk Tursda) being rfllBJ
a holldn) Washlngton'a llrthda). I IB1
mvionjiiiii on
two Wllui-et Till or the Killing of PUBJ
Hoy .1. Ilortoii fiBBJ
Trial of tin ease of the state of tfBfll
I'tnh ngnlnnt Major II I. M)ton, iBJ
1 barged with murder In the second MBJ
degne for the killing of It J Itorton, UBJ
nn lnduntrlal Worker of the World , MB
lender, bignn In the dlnlrlet tourt nt BBJ
Stilt Ijikt Clt yontiTtbi) Judge Jun- BBJ
tlu I) Cnll or Hrlghntn I'll) Is prenld- -M
lug exelmtiKlng with Judge Charles UflB
W Morse of whime nmrt Vlnjor M- VBBJ
ton was lailllff for tpilte awhile after ttBBl
lent lug the formi r Ululnti reserttt BBBJ
Hon iMiuutn nnd loi-ittliig nt the slute mBB
mplt.il In view of I la long nttiinlll- 6BB1
talire with tin ncrtised limn Judge IflBI
Mome itnittlilfrt it lilmnt ir illntiunlirieil fiHHiH
to presldi at the trial noil the other cflBi
loral Jlldgea did not wish In hear Illo BBB
time Mnor Myton wnn orlglnall) ne- HH
1 unetl or mtirtli r In the flmt degree, HH
and he wua IhiuiiiI over to tin dlnlrlet BBB
enurt by U It Martliieati Jr on A jHH
ehnrge of voluntnr) mnnnlnughter. BBB
Thin howivir did not prevint DI- BBB
trlit Attortit) U-atturwood from fit- 9BI
lug nn luforiniiljon thnrglng it higher
drgrei of homicide Ia ntlii rwood HH
ulmrgid the tit ft nilnlit with murder
in the nit ond drgrte In tlio Inform J- HH
Hon fllid In the district eourl several
weeka 11 go A Jur) wn seturetl )es- HH
tirda) morning nnd nt tin adjourn- BBB
mint of court Inst night two witnesses HHH
li tb shooting had hi en examined HH
Tho evlden c was tint damnglng lo HH
Mnjor M)lou BBB
DENVER AND RIO GRANDE TO BUILD
FROM COLTON TRRDUGR TO VERNAL
HHHiiH
Conntriiitlou of n riillrond Into tho
rintith Iliinln mil) devilop Into a ruco
letwun tlu Dtuvir und Illo (lrnude
and Ilio Halt Uike llouti, iiitonllng to
n stntemi nt made at Salt Uike Clt)
b) II I' Mmlgt, pnsldint of the
Denver and Illo Orunde and Infer
ime ilrnwn from declaration by A
U Mohlrr, prisldetit of the Union I'n
tlfli n fit in lloth riillroiul heads are
In Salt IJike Clt) Mutlgo stated dt f
nltel) that tho Denver nnd Illo
Orunde would build Into tho Ilasln,
and would tndeuvor to beat nn) other
line thin Mohbr Intimated thut
thu Salt I-ukn Itnute Intended tn un
dertake the construction at once
President Mohler la directly from ln
Angilon where lm held n tonferriitt)
till wiek with II C Nutt geutral
manager or the Halt Uike lloute, and
at which he Implied )oterday, the
mutter or the propostd line Into the
Uintah Ilasln wa dlscussid From
hi statements though they wire not
direct, It la Inferrid that the Suit
Iuku lloute or which tho UnlonPa
elf Id own SO per tent of the stock,
1 Xpert shortl) to login building n
I ninth President Mutlgti I here en
route from Dutver to tho Puclflu
Count lie stopped In Suit Ijiko Clt)
lo tonfer with representntlve of hi
tompun) He deulured thut what
ever other road goe Into the Ulntuh
vountr) will bo preceded b) the Den
ver nnd Illo Q ramie.
Will In nt Tin in To It.
'We nlrendy have mado our nur
vo) and have made many right of
way filing,' said Mudgt, 'and we arc
ready to get on tho Job with brief no
the If the Salt Iiko lloute or the
Union Patlflo xturl a road Into the
Ilasln, It will find us In there long
before they reach It We expeot to
build tho road, and wa expect to be
tho first company operating In tho
valle) " On Mohler urrlvul at 7lon
he was asked concerning the activity
of the Union Puclflo In the proposed
road building whlth II S Lovett,
chairman of the board or directum or
that oompan) n few months ago said
wns under contemplation President
Mohler responded that the mutter Is
In the bunds of the Suit Lake lloute,
and he suggested that II C Nutt
generul manager of thut road would
be able to mako a statement If he
could be reached In Los Angeles
'That Is now entirely up to the Salt
Lake lloute, ' said Mohler ' I talked
with II C Nutt about It this week,
and he would be uble, If ou can get
In loiuli with him to give jou a state- BBB
ment thut will bo Interesting to the BBB
people till clt) BBB
Will llulld I'niiu H
The Denver and Illo flrandn will BBl
build from Colton said Mudge. ' Our BBB
Mirt)n wero made from there, and BBB
from that point the road tan be put BBB
through with tho Itnst oxponse .It BBB
la the shortest route ulso Our Inten- BBB
Hon Is to run to Vermil, touching both HH
Duchesne and llooaevelt and probably BBB
M)tou Our surte) are made, and
many of tho flllnge on rights of wu
Wo do not expect to permit unvjoiher MHH
line to get tlu re before wo do nighty
mile I the luigtli of our proponed BBJ
talks wmwi H
Dintir noil Illo (.ninth' Hncluctr BBBJ
VMla llnlnli Iliinln BB
J (I (Iw)iin, thief tnglnetr of tho BBlkll
Di uver and Illo Ortiiult wa out In BBBJ
tint I'lntuh Ilasln ti untr last week BBB
Ho talked vir) encouragingly to the BBBJ
biinlnesa men und otlu rs of a branelt BBB
line or railroad to tup that country In BBB
tho ver) near future probuhly next BBBJ
)tnr Of thu visit of the rullroud of- BBBJ
flclul Vernal a Ilxpres of the lOtlt
su)a ' Ho mine In from Muik Tues-
du), but did nut urrlte In Vernal until BBB
Wednesdu) morning nl out tho time BBB
the cotka genernll) announce the HHH
break of da) Wednesdu) he went BBB
over to the camp and on the way HH
back the automobile 1 rokn down and BBB
tie with Lnglneer Milton, had to walk
In, about tlkht miles Ow)nnlathor-
ought) convinced that Vernal need HH
a railroad and we trust he can con- BBB
vlnco the directors of the company
ulso He states however, that he be- UH
Holes the) nro alrvudy convinced, and HHH
I Intend to build the branch to Vernal.
Thursduy Owynn and Mlttou drove
around town nnd out south to look
over the routo that the survey will BBB
I probabl) follow Into Vernal This Is
not hi first visit, at ho was hero
I twlco latt summer '
Legal blunka and loose leaf devices BBB
of every descrlt lion Tho Sun'a place BBB
, of business Is the former location of
the Advocate, next to Price Commer-
Icfal and Saving bank. Mall order
VgU en prompt attention Address, The HH
,8un, Price, Utah Advt BBB
BBB
