jvnwwwuwiwMtt "rprmir TTOTOlliUBIIWW IHiagim
in-
"
Largest Weekly Circulation in
Northern Arizona
A Modern Printery
:
: : :
(l)c (Civcuniim Jnn
tock Paper of Northern
zona
Fine Loaftiercial Printing
i-
- K
VOLUME XXXIII
FLAGSTAFF, ARIZONA, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1916
Number 15
V
j- t- - jm,
gfete ; ; -'.
f J? '
I?
r
SUPREME COURT HOLDS THAT LIQUOR
MAY BE SHIPPED III FOR PERSONAL USE
Holds That It Is. No Crime to Drink or Posses-Liquor,
Consequently Unconstitutional to Prohibit Introduction.
Court Warns Introducers Relative to Bringing '
Liquor In for Other Purposes.
The Supreme Court of the state
handed down a lengthy decision Sa
turday, in which they say unanimous
ly, that liquor may be shipped into the
state of Arizona for personal use only.
The decision was rendered in the case
of V. J. Steurgeon of Yuma who
brought a bottle of wine with him to
Yuma from California. He was ar
rested, tried and convicted in Superior
Judge Baxter's court, where the plea
was made that the wine brought in
was for personal use. The evidnece
U offered that it was for personal use,
S4 ' was relected bv the court. The case
was remanded for new trial on the
ground that the personal use plea was
denied. If the case is re-tried, it will
be to show whether or not the liquor
introduced was for personal use or
not.
The opinion continues:
"It being settled that traffic in in
toxicating liquor in this state is a
crime, it follows that the shipment,
transportation or introduction of in
toxicating liquor into the state with
the intention to sell, barter, exchange,
give away, or dispose of, divests, un
der the Webb-Kenyon act, such intoxi
cating liquor of its interstate com
merce character and leaves the state
free in the exercise of its police pow
ers to denounce such introduction as a
crime and to prescribe penalties for
its commission. In other words, one
who introduces intoxicating liquor in
to the state with the purpose and in
tention of violating the laws of the
state by disposing of the same may not
now interpose the defense that he is
engaged in interstate commerce, for
the reason that the article that he is
handling has been invested of its
interstate character by the Webb-Kenyon
act. Intoxicating liquor, in the
' I aspect of being 'received, possessed,
i" " i..i f -- .... ..i :. A
ur Kept, ur in burnt: wuy uncu 111 a
manner prohibited by the laws of the
state to which it is to be, or is in fact,
imported," is an outlaw and divested
of its interstate character and with
drawn from interstate protection at
the hands of the federal government."
Coming to the chief issue in the
case, the court says:
"The appellant sought to show, by
evidence, that the liquor with which
he was charged with introducing into
the state was for his personal use.upon
the theory that the prohibition amend
ment to the constitution does not .de
nounce or define personal use of in
toxicating liquors as a crime. He con
tends that it is not unlawful in this
state to have in possession or to drink
intoxicating liquors; that the Webb
Kenyon act does not divest or attempt
to divest intoxicating liquors of their
Interstate character when shipped,
transported or introduced into the
state from without the state to 'be
possesed or used for a lawful pur
pose. "Search the prohibition amendment
as you will, there is no suggestion or
intimation in any form contained
therein, prohibiting the possession or
individual consumption of intoxicating
liquors in Arizona. Indeed, it was
freely admitted upon the argument by
counsel who appeared as amici curio
that it is not a crime to possess or
drink intoxicating liquors in Arizona,
and while the attoreny general, as
least in his brief, insists that the use
or possesion is a crime, he fails to cite
us to a single instance where a pro
secution has been begun in any coun
ty of the state against any person for
drinking intoxicating liquors or hav
ing it in his possession.
The records of the courts through
out the state evidence many prosecu
tions for the sale of intoxicating li
quors since the prohibition amend
ment went into effect. It is common
knowledge that personal use has been
more or less prevalent throughout the
stale and the effort has been not to
punish the user ,but the seller there
of. The bootlegger and not his pa
trons have had the attention of the
prosecuting officers of the state.
"We think it is the consensus of
opinion, not only of 'the legal profes
'k Bion, but of the general public, that it
, " I' is not a crime to possess or drink in
toxicating liquors in this state. This
universal, and, no doubt, correct con
struction of the prohibition amend
ment may easily account for the lack
of effort upon the part of the prose
cuting officers of the state to punish
for the mere drinking or possession of
intoxicating liquors. So far as the
enforcement of the prohibitory law is
j concerned, that this has been the gene
'ral usage and practical construction
' ef tl.A lnitr r ly n01j.Avo nf 4liin mini
may not be gainsaid and is so admit
ted by the attorney general. If it had
been made a crime to use and possess
intoxicating liquors in this state, its
introduction for that purpose would
relieve it of its interstate character,
so that its denouncement as n crime
would fall within the police power of
the state. Like sale and barter, then
use and possession would be in viola
tion of the laws of the state."
In the case of the Adams Express
company vs. Kentucky, the court of
appeals of that state held that there
had been no violation of the Webb
Kenyon law by the introduction of
liquor for personal use into "dry" ter
ritory. That view was sustained by the
United States supreme court in this
language:
"It therefore follows that, inasmuch
as the facts of this case show that the
liquor was not to be used in violation
of the laws of the state of Kentucky,
as such laws are construed by the
highest court of that state, the Webb
Kenyon law has no application and no
effect to change the general rule that
the states may not regulate commerce
wholly interstate."
Concerning the utterance, the opin
ion continues:
"In so far as the decision in Adams
Express company vs. Kentucky has
influenced our determination, we wish
it to be understood that it was not the
announcement of the law of the high
est court of Kentucky, but of the su
preme court of the United States to
which we have given most credence.
Upon the stipulation in that case the
liquor was shipped into Kentucky for
the personal use of the consignees,
and, such use not being a crime under
the laws of Kentucky, neither that
court nor the supreme court of the
United States could have reached a
different conclusion. It was upon the
ascertained fact that the liquor im
ported into Kentucky was to be put
to a use recognized as lawful that the
prohibition of the Webb-Kenyon act
did not apply and the decision by the
Kentucky court is in accord with and
influenced by repeated adjudications
on the subject by the federal court."
The constitutionality of the Webb
Kenyon act is not discussed, as that
matter had not been raised in the
court below.
After passing upon other phases of
the trial in the lower court, the su
preme court adds the following, rather
for the guidance of those who may
hasten to avail themselves of the pri
vilege of bringing liquor in for person
al use:
"From what has been said, it must
not be understood that the mere claim
that intoxicating liquor has been
brought in by one for his personal use
renders such a person immune from
prosecution. Any one bringing intoxi
cating liquor into Arizona from out
side the limits of the state does so at
his peril. Whether he subjects him
self to punishment or not depends on
the use to which the intoxicating
liquor is intended to be put.
The guilt or innocence of a person
charged would become a question of
fact in each case, to be determined as
other disputed questions of fact are
determined under law.
ZANE GREY, NOTEO AUTHOR TO
MIKE MOVIES ON THE
PAINTEOJESEBT .
Al Doyle received a card from the
noted author, Zane Grey, from down
in Florida where he has been spend
ing the winter, advising him that he
will be back in Flagstaff next May
and expects to bring with him a
movie picture outfit with a company
of actors to produce some scenarios
on the Painted Desert.
Mr. Grey is the author of "The
Riders of the Purple Sage" and other
popular books, the scenes of which
arc laid in the Indian country of
Northern Arizona, where he has been
taken by Al Doyle for several years
past.
The moving picture company will
make scenarios taken from his popu
lar books published during the past
two or three years.
..'...
FLAGSTAFF MAY HAVE
A MOVIE STAR ACTOR
Miss Katherine Bader, Flag
staff, has entered the "Beauty
and Brains" contest being con
ducted by the Photoplay Maga
zine. The propsoition is to send ele
ven young women to the World
Film Corporation studios at Fort
Lee, New Jersey'across the river
from New York City, where they
will be given a thorough tryout
as film actresses. All of their
expenses will be paid on this trip
and if they show any talent they
will be given contracts for a pe
riod less than one year at re
gular salaries paid to stars.
No effort will be spared to
make film stars of these young
women. Miss Lillian Russell and
William A. Brady are among the
judges of the contest. Their ex
perience and reputation alone
assures contestants of every pos
sible consideration based solely
upon ability.
JOHN HENRY KILLED, BOB BABBICK MAY
DIE, AL LARSON BADLY HURT BY TRAIN
The Three Stepped Out of the Way of No. 3 on to the
East Bound Track in front of .Freight Train
Monday Night East of Cliffs Station.
John Henry, night watchman on the
steam loader at the Greenlaw logging
camp, Bob Babbick who had just been
engaged as camp cook and Al Larson
a brakeman on the logging train, were
struck by a freight train just cast of
Cliff station near the Big Fill Monday
night between 9 and 10 o'clock.
Henry died a short time after being
taken to the Milton hospital at about
12 o'clock; Babbick was badly cut and
bruised, with several ribs broken and
possible internal injuries. Larson was
cut about the head and was injured in'
the abdomen by being thrown from
the track. He was conscious and in
his injured condition made his way
back to the Greenlaw mill to report
the accident.
Henry and Babbick were brought in
on a freight train and Larson was
brought to the hospital in a buggy
arriving an hour before the others
arrived. Larson was so badly dazed
and shaken by the accident that he
was unable to give any account of the
accident except that a freight train
struck them as they stepped out of
the way of the limited. They had
gone to Cliffs on No. 10 leaving here
at 8:15, arriving at Cliffs they started
clown the track for the logging camp
which is about three miles cast of
Cliffs station. The accident happened
at what is known as the Big Fill
about half way to the logging camp.
The death of John Henry is a par
ticularly sad one as he leaves a wife
and little .baby a couple years old. He
was an honest conscientious, indus
trious young man about 35 years of
age. Illness and adversity during the
past year had made conditions hard
for him, but he was struggling man
fully to bring about better times and
his death will leave his wife and lit
tle one in rather straightened circum
stances. Bob Babbick is a young man about
22 years of age and a cook by occu
pation, having worked at the county
hospital for L. E. Johnson for some
time while Johnson was in charge of
that institution. He had been making
his home with C. C. Compton until
employed Saturday to cook at the
Greenlaw logging camp. JHe has no
relatives here, but is said to have a
sister in Los Angeles.
Al Larson is a well known lumber
jack, having worked in the different
logging camps in this section for
years. He was the only one of the
three that regained consciousness
after the accident happened.
The remains of John Henry will be
shipped to his old home at Eldorado,
Oklahoma, for burial.
Last reports received from the Mil
ton hospital late yesterday relative to
the condition of Babbick do not seem
to favor his recovery, though it is be
lieved if he can pull through the night
there will be a chance of his recovery.
One leg was amputated .below the
knee and a couple ribs were broken
which punctured his lung, aside from
the shock and many minor bruises
and cuts.
John Henry's skull was crushed in,
one leg badly broken with other inju
ries. He did not regain consciousness
though he spoke several times on his
way into town, asking to get up. He
.;. .. .;. .;. .;. .. .j. .. .j. .;. jr. .j. .;. .?. j. .. ..
NEW BOOST BOOKLET
OF COCONINO COUNTY
County Immigration Commis
sioner F. 0. Allen is hard at work
on a comprehensive booklet which
will contain all the available in
formation concerning the wealth,
enterprises and scenery of Coco
nino county, including the many
inducements offered people to
settle in Coconino county.
The Chamber of Commerce of
Flagstaff will have a story rela
tive to the advantages surround
ing Flagstaff, points of interest
and business enterprises while
the chamber of commerce at Wil
liams will be given a similar
amount of space to detail the ad
vantages offered in the west end
of the county.
The booklet will be for general
distribution to all persons wish
ing information concerning Coco
nino county, brief and to the
point, in order that information
seekers may secure the informa
tion desired without wading
through columns of descriptive
matter.
died before an examination could be
made of his condition after reaching
the hospital.
Larson because of his powerful phy
sique withstood the shock though bad
ly cut and bruised, he did not know
until a day or two afterward that he
had gone back to Cliffs after help. He
will undoubtedly recover from his in
juries. A good substantial purse was made
up among friends for the relief of
Mrs. Henry and his body will be
shipped back to his'old home.
A coroners jury was empanelled by
Judge Harrington to investigate the
accident, but owing to the delay in
securing the train crews as witnesses
it is probable that no verdict will be
reached by them until late sometime
today.
OR. LOWELL AND C.B. WILSON
WILL ADDRESS MEN'S CLUB
Two meetings of general public in
terest are to be conducted within the
coming week under the auspices of
the Men's club of the Federated
church. Sunday evening at 7:30
o'clock Mr. C. B. Wilson will speak at
a Washington memorial service, upon
the subject "George Washington."
Theer will be special music by, the
Federated choir. The Masons are in
vited to attend this meeting in a
body, as a mark of respect to Ame
rica's most noted and noblest Mason,
"The Father of His Country."
The following Tuesday evening at
8:00 o'clock, 'Dr. Lowell, world-known
scholar and astronomer, will give an
address on the subject of "Immigra
tion versus the United States." The
public are cordially invited to come
to the Federated church Tuesday night
to enjoy this treat
Word ,has been received from Dr.
Von Kleinsmidt of the state universi
ty, accepting the invitation of the
Men's club to speak here in the near
future. Dr. Von Kleinsmidt is said
to be one of the finest orators on the
American continent today. Plan to
hear him.
SECOND SPRING FROST
APPEARS ON MARS
Lowell Observatory. What appears
to be a spring frost on Mars, the
second for this season, has just been
detected by the astronomers of the
Lowell Observatory in latitude 54 de
grees and longtitude 285 degrees.
The north cap itself is in active
process of melting, a circular rift
having appeared half way through it
which a widening and which is con-'
nected with the border by radial tri
butary rifts. The cap is surrounded
by a clear blue band unlike the tint)
of the vegetative dark markings.
Rear Admiral Grant says at least
two hundred new submarines are
needed for coast defenses.
A bitter fight is being made before
the senate committee against the con
firmation of Brandeis as supreme
judge. The result is much in doubt.
INDIAN WAR DANCES AND SINGS
Serious Trouble at Tuba Has Thus Far Been Avoided-
Renegade Indians Failed to Secure
Sufficient Following.
The threatened trouble from a
bunch of renegade Navajo Indians at
Tuba has so far failed to materialize,
though notwithstanding the "Indian
uprising stories" printed far and
wide, there .was serious trouble em
pending among the local followers of
Taddy Tin, the dead Indian killed by
the white policeman, when he resisted
arrest and attempted to shoot the
white offiers.
Washington authorities have sent
out the report that Taddy Tin was
mentally unsound and the whole scare
was a myth. He may have been of
unsound mind, but the seriousness of
the trouble in the locality over which
he held sway, was no myth and the
white population of Tuba were fully
aware how serious were the intentions
of that particular bunch of renegade
Indians, for they received word first
hand from the friendly Indians at the
post. There was every effort on the
part of the few friends of the dead
Indian to secure a sufficient force to
wipe out the Tuba settlement. There
was delay and "big talks" to enduce
a sufficient number to join them and
much discussion over the terms of set
tlement they would demand of Supt
Runke in reparation for the dead lead
er. United States Marshall Dillon and
Supt. Thackery arrived there while
the "big talk" was still going on. It
was probably their first intimation
that the outside world and Uncle Sam
had heard of their intentions. The
three white policemen were nominally
placed under arrest pending an in -
vestigation of the affair. gun plays and otherwise acting queer-
U. S. Marshal Dillon returned Sat- ly.
urday and U. S. Attoreny Flynn went I He was tried before Judge Perkins
north with Supt. Thackery to the ho-. in'the superior court Wednesday and
gan fifty miles north of Tuba where , his testimony alone would seem suffi
the killing took place to investigate cient to convince any one of his in
the whole affair more fully. sanity.
The arrest of the white men, Wil-' Gatin 5s an 0,(1 t5mcr in this section
son, Robinson and Nash was made, it of the 8tate having run horses on the
is understood to comply with one of ranc south of Winslow and last year
the demands of the Indians. Thev did i was at Grand Canyon with teams. He
not want them on the reservation as Sot into trouble there and has been in
their work seemed too strenuous for Flagstaff the greater part of the time
the warlike bunch. since.
Many employees at Tuba feel that
there will be no guaranteed safety for ' PROMINENT BUSINESS FIRM
whites there until this narticular1 DISOLVES PARTNERSHIP
bunch of Indians are made to feel the
strong hand of Uncle Sam and thor- of the prominent grocery and hard
oughly convinced that they must abide I ware firms of the city will be here
by his rules and regulations. I after owned and controlled by Jos.
It is thought that this specific case ' Crawford the senior member of the
will be amicablv settled by the author-' firm. Mr. Borum has retired from the
ities sent into the country temporarily, business after having been connected
but a strong hand will be required to ' with it the past three years,
bring them to subjection permanently. The nn" has built up a splendid
There was no need of the big, "In- business during the past few years
dian uprising" scare, but so far as and both members of the firm were
Tuba and its population of forty or popular with the general public,
fifty unarmed whites was concerned, Mr- Borum has not announced what
it was a serious question. That seemed business he intends entering into.
to be the opinion of old timers as well '
as those well acquainted with Indians ' Potatoes Keep Best in Crates
and their characteristics. j Fred Hensing was delighted Mon-
The demand under discussion among j day to find that the graded potatoes
the renegade band, was over the terms i he had put up in crates last fall were
of settlement. The renegade sym- j " ""c condition when opened in the
pathizers were for demanding $200 cellars where stored. Many potatoes
for the Taddy Tin, the dead Indian, i n sacks 5" ocr basements were
$200 for the hogan, which, under the sprouting badly, were soft and many
ceremonial rites must be burned, the frozen. He is advocating this as an
tuming over the gun with which he ' otl,er reason why ranchers should
was killed and the arrest and expul- j ffrade and crate their potatoes in the
sion from the reservation of the white j fall, thus secure the highest market
men connected with the killing. ' Pce for them.
Friendly Indians kept the whites I
posted as to the doings of the rene
gades and were none too sure that
they might secure a large enough i terest of Lee bmith in the Majestic
bunch of Indians to carry out their Theatre and the. movie shows will
purpose. i hereafter be run under Mr. Costigan's
An additional scare that made the , so,e management The new theatre in
whites feel for a time that trouble had j the Babbitt building will be opened
arrived, was the fact that two horses March 1st as the Empress Theatre,
belonging to Robinson came back to j The Majestic will be continued at the
Tuba the day after Robinson left for'McMillon hall by Mr. Costigan.
the hostile country, with nothing but '
a rope tied to them. It was thought i Floods Bad in Arkansas
certain then that Robinson had been I R- L- Webb arrived in Flagstaff
killed by Indians and his horses sent
back into Tuba as a warning. How
ever, Robinson came into camp on
foot in the evening-and explained that
his horses had broken away while
watering them. He had only one rope j
with him and had tied them together. I
Something frightened them and he
was afoot miles from his camp. I
An old Indian service employee '
says that he was informed by a friend-1
ly Indian that the reason for their '
asking for $200 for the killing of
Taddy Tin, was .based on information J
some of the Indians had received
several years ago when a young In- (
dian was killed by a Santa Fe train
and that amount was recovered from
HAVE FAILED IN DESIRED RESULTS
the railroad company for damages.
They had not learned previously that
a dead Indian had any special value.
The demand for the gun with which
the Indian was killed is an ancient
custom. The weapon was not to be
used in retaliation, but to be kept for
years and years, then taken out and
hidden amoung the rocks where it was
reasonably certain it never could be
found again.
Despite all reports, it was a wise
thing to investigate conditions' and
look into the affair. The general im
pression is that lives has been saved
by prompt action in the matter.
Ashley Wilson, Ed Nash and D. M.
Robinson the policemen who attempt
ed the arrest of Taddy Tin when the
billing occurred, were placed under ar
rest by orders of the Indian depart
ment by warants sworn out by U. S.
Attorney Flynn and were given a
hearing before U. S. Commissioner
George Fleming Saturday. They
waived preliminary examination and
were placed under $1000 bonds each
awaiting the action of the next feder
al grand jury at Prescott
It is thought this action was taken
to placate the Indians and without
serious intentions of prosecution.
Al Gartin Declared Insane
Al Gartin was arrested in the old
saloon building across the track Tues
day for shooting through the floor
from the up-stairs room into the room
below, narrowly missing Jim Rodri
guez, the proprietor of the place. He
j has had a mania lately for making
i The firm of Crawford & Borum, one
Change of Moie Management
J. J. Costigan has purchased the in-
Thursday on No. 7 from a visit with
relatives in Louisiana and Arkansas.
He says that the big floods are the
worst in history and the damage done
by the high waters will run into mil-
lions of dollars. Mr. Webb says that
be much prefers the snow to the
flooded southern states.
Tbe Lusitania case has at last been
settled. Germany has accepted the
wording of the American note,
State Engineer Cobb will endeavor
to pour the Gila river under the state
bridge at Florence instead of building
a new bridge. He will endeavor to
turn the river back into the old
channel.
I. "A -. -'L&i&J&lMk&4Jm& MyMftA'&a4.'X
U . J vf ' ,1 i
t&XteM&idiftA
"V&M
eMSK I
V !taMlnffPfcVWTOF -Lwr . .
t w t. jr-r--vwi iim im ii yMg
x vTsr
"
p ,- , i"4wMaw' a imwv '.?; mmmamummMtiammgiai
Wlfi-A'X -.'V WWgKHHMKB&JC 4K
... - ( . f -!.- F.v.d- -W agj.Mr'j iA. .. Jr -ii. , a rfi '" - 'hS( ,.Tt-1. - -, 'tiZtlti an . rtw Annnfaiianrmtr irriMtlrTMrtittafl-l " f,,,'"r t nt MMiaMjraa.tw8w.fna t t iaa.lwmMi iiWPj fcWUf Vy
- ww-" '" , ' 3
