OFFICIAL PAPER OF CITY AND COUNTY
Seed Corn That is Good
#^UTSIDE
Far Sale.
Seven good cows for sale on farm
known as the C. P. Nash farm, 3 miles
due north of Bonair, 5 miles east and
one mile north of Lime Springs, Iowa.
Terms—Cash, or one years time
on bankable paper drawing 8 per cent.
Cows are supposed to calve in spring
of 1916 in good season. Most of the
cows are of good size and not old.
Tenant] on farm will show you the
cows, and your offer must be for cash
or one year's time as stated above.
Write to Mrs. C. P. Nash, 3337 First
Ave. S., Minneapolis, Minn. 26t2
'fci,'
of Home Grown Corn our seed is the only seed offered
^\j for sale in this vicinity that can furnish absolute proof as to
where it was grown. That fact is just as important for you to
know as to know about its growing qualities.
For reference write to Charles Erickson, president of the First
National Bank, of Inwood, Lyon Co., Iowa. He will tell you that I was
there several weeks selecting and shipping corn grown north of Inwood.
Also Mr. E. S. Fyler, a graduate of Ames, can and will gladly verify
this fact, as he was with me and assisted in selecting and testing.
To set aside any doubt as to this corn maturing in Howard County,
on January 8,1916, I wrote to Ames, asking them regarding this point.
Copy of my letter to Ames follows:
MAWRUSS
Cresco, Iowa, January 8, 1916.
Mr. Clyde McKee, Asst. Prof, of Farm Crops,
Ames, Iowa.
My Dear Sir:—In Lyon County, Iowa, I selected a car of 1914 corn
and am now selling same here for seed. Tests made of this corn here
by different farmers show a very strong germination, namely 93 to 100
per cent. What is your opinion with reference to Lyon county corn ma
turing in this locality? The variety we have is a medium yellow dent
averaging about 120 ears to the bushel. For this information I will be
greatly obliged. I also thank you for your letter of Dec. 26, 1915.
Very truly, M. M. GRAF.
(Exact copy of reply from Ames follows:)
Ames, Iowa, February 2, 1916.
Mr. M. M. Graf, Cresco, Iowa.
Dear Sir:
Your letter of January 8th was received in due time but owing to
the rush of work at the close of our semester, reply has been delayed
until this time.
I note what you have to say regarding the 1914 seed corn in Lyon
County. Since Lyon County is in the same tier of counties as your own
it would seem to me it would make very little difference in the time of
maturing. I take it'that there is practically no difference in the lati
tude between the two counties, and since they are both on about the
same line, we would expect little, if any, difference in the length of
time required to mature.
1 am glad to note the interest that you are taking in the way of
securing good seed for your farmers, and hope that you will be entirely
successful in supplying the amount of seed that will be needed. I think
you are particularly fortunate in securing seed which gives as strong
germination as that which you report.
If at any time we can be of service to you I will be glad to hear from
you. Very truly yours,
CLYDE MCKEE,
Note The Prices
v. '•'ft-
Asst. Prof, of Farm Crops.
Price for this seed is $5.00 per bushel. Variety medium yellow dent.
All seed on ear. Your note at 6 per cent, will answer, if you wiah.
Youlhave the privilege of testing for 30 days. Do not wait till you
need seed and then buy anything, not knowing where or who raised it.
Have some Flint for early feeding at $3.50 per bushel. Every farm
er should plant at least one bushel.
Phone, Write, or Call on
M. M. GRAF, Cresco, Iowa.
For Sale.
Nearly new 8 room two story dwel
ling and 3 acres of land, well located,
near city water and sewer system, a
desirable and new modern house, well,
cistern, and well located. Will be sold
at a less price than you can now build
same for. Call on or address LRERS
LAND Co., Cresco, la. 26t4
For Sale
The Ridlington house and lots in Cres
co, Iowa. Inquire of N. S. Durgin or
B. F. Davis. 26-tf
't i*
-o
mm*?
VOL. LVII. NO. 26 CRESCO, HOWARD COUNTY, IOWA, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1916
The gathering was called to order by
Tim Donovan, district committeeman,
who introduced Dr. J. W. Reynolds, of
Creston, state chairman, who stated
the objfects of the gathering and who
at the request of Mr. Donovan presid
ed throughout the session.
Short talks on the needs of party or
ganization were made by several, in
cluding D. D. Murphv, of Elkader, M.
X. Geske and Senator Quigley, of Mc
Gregsr, Frank O'Connor of New Hamp
ton, ex-state chairman Reed of Ottum
wa, and U. S. Marshal E. R. Moore, of
Dubuque, the two last named gentle
men explaining the organization of the
Iowa Democratic Club and its plans for
financing the campaigns of the future.
A committee composed of one person
from each county in the district was
designated to report to the convention
suitable persons to be placed upon the
presidential primary ballot as delegates
and alternate delegates from the 4th
District. After due consideration, the
committee reported the following se
lections:
Delegates—Tim Donovan, of New
Hampton and Frank Olson, of Clear
Lake
Alternate Delegates—M. X. Geske,
of McGregor and J. W. Dwyer, of
West Union.
Nomination papers for the above will
be circulated throughout the district,
but this procedure will not—and was
not intended to—prevent any other
democrats from filing if they so desire,
but was done so that there would be no
failure to make nominations for the
imperfectly understood presidential
primary.
Following the work of the conven
tion, the postmasters of the district
met and selected delegates to the state
postmaster's convention held at Des
Moines the day following. Postmaster
Killmer, of Mason City was the chair
man of .the delegation and the only one
T^e gmthering w«s the last' and
largest Of a series of such meetings
called in each of the congressiona1 dis
tricts of the state, yd demonstrated
that the democrats of the Fourth Dis
trict are wide-awake and aggressive
and will do their full shate in the work
of carrying Iowa for the democracy
next November.
Howard county was represented at
the conference by D. E. Horton, of
Lime Springs, John E. Dargan, of Rice
ville, J. W. Cannon and Jerry Conway,
of Elma, James McGourty, of Acme
and F. A. Miller and F. D. Mead, of
Cresco.
For Sale.
Good guest bed room suite complete,
also rugs, clock, lounge, center table,
kitchen cabinet, sewing machine and
refrigerator. LYNN STRAYER.
For Sale.
Good six-room house and large lot
close to German Catholic church and
school. Price right. Inquire of E. R.
Thompson. 26-tf
1-
PLUCK, PitO J^ESS, PERSEVERANCE AND PATRIOTISM IN POLITICS
Democrats Meet at New Hampton.
A conference of the democrats of the
Fourth Congressional District met at
New Hampton last Thursday and was
attended by over one hundred enthus
iastic democrats, representing every
county in the district. The Chickasaw
county democrats swelled the total at-!
tendance to nearly 200.
Married
On February 8th occurred a very
pretty wedding at the St. Joseph's
Church at 8:30, o'clock, Rev. Father
Wagner, officiating. The contracting
parties were Miss Emma Steffens of
this place and Mr. Joseph Billmeyer of
Dyersville. Miss Carrie Bierner, of
Dyersville and Mr. Paul Billmeyer,
brother of the groom of Red Wing,
Minn., were the attendants. The bride
was beautifully attired in white em
broidered voil trimmed with baby Irish
lace.' ijfhe wore a veil in cap fashion
and carried white roses. The brides
maid wore a dress of pale blue crepe
de chine with pink rose bud trimming
and carried pink carnations.
The wedding breakfast was served
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. B. J.
Weber, brother-in-law and sister of the
bride and the reception at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Milz, cousin of the
bride. The dining room and table was
beautifully decorated in pink and
orange with a large bell hanging at
the center of the table. The decorat
ing was done by Miss Emma DeGreve
of Cresco. The table waiters consist
ed of young men. The bridal couple
received many beautiful and costly
presents.
The bride is a daughter of John Stef
fen, of Dyersville and is a charming
young lady possessed of sweet woman
ly qualities. The groom is a son of
Mr. and Mrs. Joe Billmeyer of Dyers
ville and is one of the thrifty and high
ly respected young men of that com
munity. After spending a week with
relatives and friends, they left on Tues
day for Dyersville where the happy
couple will reside on a farm which the
groom has recently purchased, and be
gin their married life with the best
wishes of numerous friends for con
tinued happiness and prosperity.
Seat Sale for Potash and Perlmutter.
Potash and Perlmutter, the most fa
mous cloak and suit laughmakers in the
world, have left their quarters in the
Cohen Theatre, New York City, after
two remarkable seasons and are mak
ing a tour of the couutry to display
their goods to millions of patrons who
could not get to New York to see them.
They will open up shop at the "Cresco"
is limited to one night bnly therefore
it is advisable to put in orders in ad
vance. To accomodate the rush of
buyer the sale of seats will open 8 a.
m., Thursday, Feb. 24th at Lomas
Drug store. A. H. Woods who put
the boys into business, is sending along
with them not.only all their original de
signs but in fact their entire staff, in
cluding designers, models, cutters,
pressors, salesmen, lawyer and even
their friends and family. Their tour
so far has been a triumphant one for
Abe and Morris are known everywhere
by reputation as fine fellows, as lova
ble as they are laughable—keen busi
ness men, but with hearts of gold.
Their visit will be a notable event and
it is only regretable that their Stay is
necessarily limited to one night.
Fresh Fish.
I am now prepared to handle all kinds
of fresh fish and deliver all orders.
You will find fish here every day in the
year. Phone 593.
25-tf J. W. WENTWORTH,
CRESCO OPERA HOUSE
Saturday Night, Feb. 26th—Engagement Extraordinary
.The Same Big Company and Production That Just Played Chicago
POTASH & PERLMUTTER
Designed from the Famous Stories of Montague Glass
CHICAC»0,^NNE^P0US
S O N E S E A A E A N O E
Market Street.
AANDSST.
Get your orders in early if you want to be with the crowd. Seat sale opens Thursday, Feb. 24th, at 8 a. m- at Lomas' Pharmacy
NOTE:—We Absolutely Guarantee this Attraction. CRESCO OPERA HOUSE CO.
PAUL
Community Club Session.
The people living in the vicinity of
Schley have filled a void in our social
life by forming an organization known
as the "Community Club," for the pur
pose of mutual protection against the
common winter enemy—ennui.
Always loyal, they haye all flocked
to the standard, and demonstrated
their glQom-dispelling power on the
evening of February eleventh at a leap
year social given at the hospitable home
of Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Frank.
It is superfluous to add that joy reigned
unconfined the fame of the genial host
and hostess having assured that before
hand.
Uplifting songs were sung, and musi
cal numbers rendered by Katie Fravel,
Minnie May Frank, Ruth and Anna
Woodard, interspersed by oratorical se
lections by Cornelia Barnes, the talent
ed and popular teacher of the Schley
school, gave the club members assurance
of many similar delightful meetings of
the Community Club to be participated
in throughout the year. The repast
was a fitting culmination to a happily
spent evening.
The officers af the club are as follows
President, Mrs. Gordon Stander, Vice
President, Mrs. Chas. Frank Secretary
and Treasurer, Mrs. Arch White.
Meetings of the club are held the first
and third Thursdays of each month, the
next one being slated at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Herman Gassett on Thurs
day next, February seventeenth. As
four new candidates will be initiated
into the mysteries, a large attendance
a certainty. E. A. W.
A TEXAS STEER.
At the opera house on Monday, Feb.
21st, 'A Texas Steer,' the latest Selig
Red Seal Play, in five reels, will be
shown. This comedy is based upon the
Hoyt play, which was so successful on
the speaking stage, and is filled with
laugh getting situations and action of a
legitimate nfeture. It is one of those
rare gems of the photoplay world which
is a sure-fire laugh-getter without in
troducing any of the time-worn slap
stick features. Tyrone Power, the
wonderful actor who renounced the
speaking stage to become a member of
the titie nto
mond, as Bony Maverick, daughter of
the man who was nicknamed "A Texas
Steer."
Legal Holiday Next Taesday.
Next Tuesday, February 22nd, being
Washington's Birthday, a legal holiday,
the Cresco postoffice will give the usual
holiday service. The general delivery
windows will be open from 9:30 to 10:30
a. m. and from 6:00 to 7:00 p. m. No
money orders will be issued, but regis
try window will be open during the
above hours. There will be no rural
mail delivery that day, but city car
riers will make one complete delivery
in the forenoon. F. D. MEAD, P. M.
Recomafdrd By a Coapetitor.
The One and Only "Hub" speaks a
good word for a rival firm
"I am glad Potash & Perlmutter are
coming to Cresco I saw them in
Chicago where they delivered the goods
to a packed house. I can recommend
them to my friends and guarantee satis
faction. HUB EDMONSON.
™PWW lifiiifMP"""!! Iff
BY MEAD PUBLISHING COMPANY
r^
B?
$1.00 PER YEAR
M. X. Geske for Congress.
Friends all over the district are bringk
ing out the name of M. X. Geske,- of
McGregor, as a candidate for the Con
gressional nomination in this district
and although Mr. Geske at "ths
New Hampton conference last week,
stated that he was not a candidate" fdr
any office, yet it is generally felt that
Mr. Geske will heed and obey the-1"party
if it calls upon him to lead the fight in.
this district. Mr. Geske made an excel
lent impression upon his hearers by his
vigorous talk at New Hampton, and
everywhere coul'd be heard the opinion
expressed that he had the personality
and ability that would make him a most
successful candidate should he be called
upon to go before the people of the dis
trict in the capacity of the Denurcr4ti8
congressional nominee.
Evangelical Church Notes.
There will be preaching service and
Sunday school in the Ridgeway Evan
gelical church Sunday, Feb. 20th, at
10:30 also in the Florenceville Evan
gelical church Sunday evening at 7:30
Everybody invited to attend these serv
ices. Monday, Feb. 21, at 3 p. m„ will
be held in the Florenceville church the
last quarterly conference business ses
sion of the conference year. Preaching
services followed by business meeting,
Rev. H. J. Faust of Waterloo, Iowa",
conducting same.
W. A.
Baptist Church.
Regular services will be held next
Sunday at the Baptist church. Morn
ing theme, "Divine Slavery." Even
ing subject, "Weights and Sins." The
pastor's IBitye^j.^ass was entertained
ftjhe pa
bers, and have' a wide-awake class.
Come and study with us.
J. A. PETTIT, Pastor.
Congregational Church.
Rev. E. F. Bell of Fremont, Mick*
will occupy the pulpit of the Congrega*.
tional church next Sunday morning and
evening as a candidate. All members
and friends of the church are cordially
invited to attend these services.
Adreatitf Charch Notes.
The public is cordially invited to tin
Sabbath school (Saturday,) at 1:90 p.
m. preaching 2:30 p. m., and 7:30 p. m.
Sunday topic, "The origin of the Bibl^
how to study that we may understand**
Roller Slutiag.
Roller skating under the Nichola
Clothing store every evening and ala%
on Saturday afternoon.
26t3 A. G. DAWS, Prop.
Hoases for Reat
I have two new modern houses for rent
25-t3 A. E. BARKER.
50c, $1.00, $1.50
ftfe:. ferJtgy.-
,*
$
*.t*- .*•
-r-
^4
A
*1
1
it
SCHOLEK,
The fourth tind last of the series of
special sermons based on the letters
from the business men will be the top
ic, Is the Work of the Church a
Man's Job," and will be given next
Sunday night at 7:30. All are cordial
ly invited. The pastor will preach Sun
day morning at 10:30 on the topie,
"Christ and the Decalogue on the Sab
bath." Sunday school at 11:45, Junior
League at 3 p. m., and the Epworth
League at 6:45. Keep in mind Bishop
Quayle's coming on March 1st.
rl
Pastor,
Methodist Notes.
1
.1
1-
I
3
