The Echo ha» a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
«mi who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 7
FOUR MEN KILLED IN SNOW
SLIDE WEDNESDAY-TEN HURT
Three Seriously—Were Shoveling Out One Slide When Another
frme Overwhelming fifty Men
OCCURRLD ONE AND A HALF MILES WEST Of LEAVENWORTH
Kitted and Injured Were all Greeks and Japanese—Seven Greeks Swept Into
Wenatchee River—One Believed to be Drowned—Two Buried
In Snow— One Japanese Body Recovered
Wednesday was the warmest day
since last summer and was preceded
by an unusually warm night. Just the
kind of weather that develops slides in
the mountains. Anticipating trouble,
the railroad company sent their rotary
plows up the canyon in the morning.
By noon a small slide was reported one
and a half miles up the road and 50
men, Greeks and Japanese, in charge !
of Robert Ehrensberger, left the rail-1
road yards about one o'clock to shovel
out the slide. Between 3 and 3:30
o'clock another slide developed right
in the track ol the first, and before the
men could get out of the way they
were overwhelmed in the slide and
eight or ten swept into the Wenatchee
river and others covered up in snow,
rock and tree trunks. Foreman Ehrens
berger and some ten or fifteen of those
who were lucky enough to get out of
the way, some hit but not injured, and
able to help get others less fortunate
out of the snow, immediately went to
work. Ehrensberger seeing some of
the men in the water went to their as
sistance first and himself dragged five
or six men out of the icy water, himself
getting into the swift water to help the
maimed and injured to land. It is be
lieved that at least one was badly in
jured and was carried downstream,
while three more are known to be
buried under the snow and ice. The
first body taken out was that of a Jap- [
anese, Komura Gutaro. Ten of the in
jured were Drought to Leavenworth and
are now in the hospital. One has a
broken leg and is otherwise injured,
and believed to be in a dangerous con
dition. Another has several ribs frac
tured and is otherwise bruised, besides
being chilled from his bath in the icy
water. Another is cut and bruised all
over and said to have an arm broken.
The others are all more or less injured
and suffering from the shock and being
in the water.
Robert Ehrensberger, after getting
the men out of the river, brought the
news of the disaster to town. The rail
road company immediately sent an en
gine with Dr. G. W. Hoxsey, the rail
road physician, and stretchers to bring
the injured to town. Shoveling gangs
were also sent to the scene to bunt for
the buried men. A representative of
this paper went to the scene of the dis
aster on one of the first trains. Only
four or five men appeared to be hunt
ing for the bodies of the buried men.
The shoveling crew sent there by the
railroad company seemed to be afraid
to work in the snow, evidently fearing
another slide, which fear was not ill
founded. To see the immense amount
of snow on the sides of the steep walls
of the canyon is enough to convince
anyone that a slide is liable to take
place anywhere and any time. Right
where the slide occurred there is still
enough snow to cause another slide if
the warm weather continues.
Where the slide occurred, two hun
dred yards west of the Tumwater Light
& Water Co's power house, the track
tuns at the foot of a steep mountain,
about one hundred feet above and three
hundred feet away from the bed of the
Wenatcbee river. The slide is about
two hundred yards wide and from ten
to thirty feet deep on the track. Be
tween where the accident occurred and
TLhe Xeavenwortb TEgbo
the town there have been numerous
slides in the past few weeks. Snow
banks on both sides of the track show
that they were from ten to thirty feet
deep. Inevitably there will be further
slides, as since they were plowed out
some six feet of new snow has fallen.
Every foot of the canyon is dangerous
for pedestrians at this time. Not only
because of the danger of slides, but be
j cause in most places it is almost im
| possible to get oat of the way of pass
ing trains. There ij no snow plow
here, all of them having been sent up
the canyon before the first slide oc
curred where the men were buried.
That there are monster slides farther
up the canyon, many of them —perhaps
fifty or a hundred —is quite probable.
Everybody knows that the snow is
there to cause slides, in quantities
never before known. All that is neces
sary to bring it down is a warm day
such as was Wednesday. One would
be reckless to guess when the danger
from slides is over. It all depends on
the temperature. Warm weather or a
rain, which is not unusual, will be fol
lowed by further slides, perhaps larger
than any that have yet occured.
The name of the Japanese who was
taken out of the slide dead is Komura
Gutaro. The Japanese consul is ex
pected hers today or tomorrow from
Seattle and will make an investigation
of the cause of death.
The names of the Greeks who lost
their lives in the slide are John Jafiro
poulos, Tom Miler and John Thocas.
Miler's body was found yesterday morn
ing in the water under a log, where it
it was wedged with ice. Late yester
day afternoan it was released and
brought to town. The injured who
were brought to the hospital Wednes
day are Rick Stannes, Anest Poulos,
Nick Bertsos, Gust Rigas, George Car
ros, George Kollies, Pete Babbettas,
James Hamilos, John Stannos, Agel Ne
otis. All these men, who only suffered
slight injury, are Greeks, left on the
early morning train yesterday for Spo
kane where, if it is necessary, they will
go to a hospital. Pitter Rapples, a
Greek, and Y. Okagawa, a Japanese,
are still in the Leavenworth hospital
and in a fair way to early recovery.
John Jafiropoules and John Thocas,
whose bodies had not been recovered
up to last night, are either in the We
natchee river or buried under the
slide. The latter named, it is said,
was surely washed down the river and
the body may not be recovered before
next summer.
All the Greeks who had been em
ployed shoveling snow refused to work
in the canyon and left for Spokane this
morning. The Japanese also refused
to work yesterday.
Two Women Crushed by Falling Cornices
Last Friday two women were se
verely injured in Spokane by the falling
into the street of one of those over
hanging cornices that you often see on
buildings. The brick, mortar and gal
vanized iron came down while the
streets were crowded.
Spokane—The B. H. Stanton Co.
plans to erect a $175,000 storage plant
which will employ 250 men.
The Fairfield Creamery will install
an ice plant.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, February 18, 1916
Death of S. J. Martin
Mr. Martin came here in September
last from Lincoln, Nebraska, and made
his home with his daughter, Mrs. W.
A. Cline, wife of engineer Cline. He
was 72 years of age and had been
in poor health and it was hoped that
the change to this climate would do
him good. The severe weather of the
past winter taxed his strength and he
took a slight cold the past week which,
with other complications, caused his
death Monday morning at 9:45. The
remains were embalmed and prepared
for shipment to his old home as soon
as regular service on the railroads is
established.
HEAVY SNOW BELIEVED
WILL REDUCE THE CROP
Upper Wenatchee Valley Apple Trees
Will be Seriously Injured by
the Deep Snow
The unusually heavy snow fall this
winter has covered all the young trees
and limbs of bearing trees five to seven
years old. As the snow settles it will
carry the limbs down and split them
from the tree. Many orchard owners
are shoveling out their trees, but as
this is a big job where there is a large
orchard, some will nc doubt neglect to
do this.
Only those who are directly inter
ested in orchards and fruit raising are
aware of the extent of the damage that
will be done to the fruit bearing trees.
About the end of December, when
the snow began to cover the younger
trees efforts were made in some of the
orchards to dig them out and tie the
limbs together to keep them from be
ing broken off the parent stem. Since
that time the snowfall has been so
great that not only are the young trees
completely covered up, but six to eight
year old trees in full bearing are al
most entirely under the snow. No
matter how slow the snow melts the
damage to the trees will be consider
able. Should, however, a thaw set in
followed by rain the trees will be so
broken and shattered that it will take
years to bring them again to their
present condition. This applies to or
chards from Cashmere to Leavenworth,
and young trees will suffer all the way
to Wenatchee. A Leavenworth man
who has a large orchard in the valley
stated that he expected his apple crop
this year to be reduced one-third by
the damage to his trees.
Women's Activities
Cora Stewart Wilson, president of
the Kentucky Illiteracy Commission,
was founder of the night schools which
opened in Rowan county, Ky., in
1911. Educators were very skeptical
of her plans at first, but became very
enthusiastic when the country folks be
tween the ages of eighteen and eighty
came twelve hundred strong. The
second year the enrollment was sixteen
and by the end of the third year illit
eracy was exterminated in Rowan coun
ty. The schools have extended to
every county in the state and is fast
spreading all over the United States.
Mrs. Charlotte Rhodus, of Chicago,
supported by the club women of that
city, has commenced a national cam
paign for three cent elecwicity, five
cent gas and penny telephones.
The women of Ogontz, Perm., be
lieve in military preparedness. They
have formed a regiment and are being
drilled in the military tactics by Col.D.
T. Lauden, U. S. A.
The thirteenth bi-ennial convention
of the General Federation of Women's
Clubs will be held in New York City
this spring and twenty thousand club
women are preparing to attend. Two
million club women will be repre
sented. Several hundred women from
the state of Washington will attend the
convention and there will be at least
two from Chelan Co.
Butter Wrappers at the Echo Office.
LINCOLN DAY BANQUET
WENATCHEC SATURDAY
Many Republicans Gathered to Honor
Birthday of Great Emancipator
The Lincoln Day banquet, last Sat
urday evening, drew a large crowd to
Wenatchee Hotel. Ed. S. Russel pre
sided over the meeting in a very felic
itous manner, and numerous short
talks, in response to Mr. Russel, were
made. The first, by Mr. Geo. R.
Fisher, referred to the ancestry of
Abraham Lincoln, which is gradually
being cleared up by his many admir
ers and shows that among his ances
tors were several who had achieved
distinction.
After many talks, toward the close of
the meet. Lew Bowman was called on
and to the great delight of some, and
the discomfiture of others, laid bare
some of the early political history of
Chelan county. He told how in the
old days of conventions and caucuses
things were fixed, and sometimes un
fixed, and deplored the passing of
those good old times. The primary
law he would like to see repealed. As
a bit of history, throwing light on how
things were done then, his talk was
entertaining, which probably accounted
for the tumultuous applause that greet
ed his talk, which was the longest
made at the meeting. He was' fol
lowed by Mr. Rufus Wood, of the
World, who closed the talkfest. Among
other things he stated that he would
Dot be a candidate for congress, but
was highly pleased to learn that many
others beside himself thought him fitted
for so high and honorable a position.
Thruout the meeting, which was
really a republican gathering, with a
number of the brand known as pro'
gressive republicans present, the get
together feeling was evident. The
forgive and forget spirit came to the
surface in several of the talks made.
GREAT NORTHERN TIED
UP BY BRIDGE TROUBLE
Slides Have Been Ploughed Out—Bridge
Torn Out by Slide Repaired by
Last of Week
Last Sunday a small wooden bridge
across Crab creek, a short distance
west of Wilson creek, some seventy
miles east of Leavenworth, held up 43,
our only daily train since the 31st of
January, twelve hours last Sunday.
The train is due here at 4:30 p. m.,
but was delayed until 4:30 Monday
morning.
The company is working heroically
to open the road but natural causes
have so far prevented the operation of
trains thru the mountains to the west
since January 31st. For a few hours
February 3rd the road was free of
slides and two trains succeeded in get
ting thru, but with those exceptions
no trains have gotten over the Cascade
mountains since the first of the present
month.
Questions to Ask Would Be Law
Makers
In some counties the granges and
farmers' unions are asking would be
candidates for the legislature very
pointed questions:
Will you, if elected, impose new tax
burdens on the people, and create new
! offices, boards, etc.?
Will you use your position to create
commissions or new jobs, and then get
one for yourself?
Will you help create new judgeships
to make more lucrative places for law
yers?
Will you enact more freak laws aDd
experimental legislation to hamper in
| dustries and keep capital from invest
j me?
The republican state convention will
meet in Yakima, Friday, May 5 th. A
great time is expected and already ho
-1 tel reservations have been made.
Aeroplane Mail Service
Washington advices are to the effect
that plans are being perfected to es
tablish aeroplane mail service in differ
ent parts of the United States. It will
be tried out in Alaska, where there are
few roads and widely scattered settle
ments. Routes will also be established
in the United States. The trial will be
made with the double purpose of de
terminine the practicability of carrying
mail by this method and at the same
time train several hundred men to the
use of air machines so that they may
become available in the service of the
government should the country ever
become involved in war. The Euro
pean war has determined their useful
ness in war, in truth their indispen
sable \»se if the country means to keep
pace with the development of war ac
cessories.
EXAMPLE FOR APPLE
GROWERS TO EMULATE
What Was Done for the Berry Growers
of Puyallup Can Be Done for
Wenatchee Valley fruit
The annual report ot the Puyallup
and Sumner Fruit Growers Association,
certified by public accountants, is a
very flattering document. It shows
that the association did a business dur
ine the past year amounting to over
one million, six hundred thousand dol
lars. The report does not show when
the association started business, but it
does show that the original capital in
vested was $2678, and that on the first
of this year it had on hand $40,861.38
in cash, and assets in excess of all lia
bilities 8105,350.46. The net earn
ings "for 1915 were *16,894.61.
The Puyallup Fruit Frowers Associa
tion is a shining example of what can
be done by co-operation on the part of
fruit growers when acting together.
Some years ago the berry growers of
the Puyallup valley were in much the
same fix as the apple growers of the
Wenatchee valley. They got together.
That is what the apple growers of this
valley should do. They made a start
in the right direction last year. The
fruit growers league made a very cred
itable showing for the first year. The
organization should be made stronger
and its activities broadet-ed. What
was done in the Puyallup valley can be
repeated here. The idea that all ex
cept the highest grade apples should
be converted into some form of by
product must be rigidly adhered to. In
this way the keeping quality is en
hanced and the condensed form will
stand a higher freight rate in getting
the stuff to market.
Sixteen Operators Laid Off
There is some criticism of the rail
road company. It appears that some
sixteen station operators between here
and Tye, mostly women, have been
laid off because there was nothing for
them to do while the G. N. is tied up
by slides. Mrs. Doris Dillon, stationed
at Nason Creek, walked to Leavenworth
last night, coming down the track and
making her way over one slide near
Drury that was 50 feet deep and 300
yards long, which she did not dread so
much as the one near town where the
four men were killed Wednesday. She
said that Mrs. Barrett, who was sta
tioned at Chiwaukum, started to walk
to Tye in the hope that she would find
a way of getting to Everett, where she
has friends. All the railroad employes
want to get out of the canyon, feeling
that the danger from slides is by no
means over. It is not believed that
the company is wilfully negligent of
the welfare of its employes. It simply
does not know of the danger and dis
comfort of the operators, else it would
have found a way of getting them out.
The business of the Lewis county
creamery for the past year amounted
to $72,576.99.
Leap year has not stimulated the
marriage industry. It takei payroll!
and good wages.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. If you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to tKis office.
$1.50 Per Year
RAILROAD IN ALASKA
INDUCING EMIGRATION
Valuable Timber and Large Areas of Rich
Agricultural Land Awaiting
Development
A recent number of the U. of W,
News Letter contains the following:
Alaskan national forests are being
populated rather rapidly as a result of
the development of the new govern
ment railroad, many homesteaders en
tering them the moment construction
of the line was assured. Word of this
movement was brought to the campus
a few days ago by W. G. Weigle, su
pervisor of national forests in Alaska.
The two reserves comprise close to
20,000,000 acres, much of it valuable
for agriculture, but sawmills are very
scarce. The few that are operating
average only about 40,000 feet each
10-hour day. Transportation is limited
to water in the reserves and the forest
rangers are compelled to operate six
boats for inspection purposes.
School Notes
Miss Plainer —Ernest, what is a tor
nado?
Ernest —Oh, a tornado is worse than
a hurricane.
First student: What happens to a
candle flame when you blow it out?
Second student: Yes, what happens
to your fist when you open up your
hand?
Teacher —What are the kinds of
thermometer scales?
Pupil —Fahrenheit, Reaumwr and
Centiped.
The new sewing machine fot the
Home Economics department arrived
Monday and was put to a practical use
at once.
Within the last week the High school
has become a veritable workshop.
Three distinct divisions are working
in opposition to each other, athletics,
dramatic and musical. Result —the
once harmonious faculty has almost
become discordant. Open waT has
been averted however, by the following
arrangement: the athletics have right
of way to the lower floor, the dramatic
aspirants the first floor and the warblers
the upper floor. From seven-thirty
a. m. until ten-fifteen p. m. if you
should happen to be in the hall oh the
main floor, you might hear the groans
of the piano and the warblings of grand
opera singers from above, the sound
of dramatic oratory near by. and the
shouts of the ball players and referee's
whistle from below. If it happens
that a poor indurtrious student, who is
searching for a quiet corner where he
may concentrate his mind on Latin or
algebra, finds his way to one of the
class rooms, he is told by some over
worked member of the faculty that the
assembly hall is the place to study.
Such are the conditions in the High
school. But what about those poor
students who are wanted in all three
places at once? It has been suggested
that the school board put in an elevator
system to save time running up and
down stairs.
Liability of School Directors
A recent decision of the state su
preme court holds that school directors
are directly liable for accidents to chil
dren from swings, slides, bars and other
recreation devices on school grounds,
and that in any action for damage suits
the district becomes the defendant.
Shipping Salts From Orovifle
An industry that is giving employ
ment to twenty teams and a considera
ble number of men at Orovile, Oka
nogan county, is being developed by
the Stewart-Calvert Co., a Seattle firm.
It appears, according to the Gazette,
that an inexhaustible deposit of salts
has been discovered near that town in
shallow lakes that are covered with
water in the summer. The deposit is
taken out in solid blocks, hauled to
Oroviile and ground up, sacked and
shipt east.
