LEVENTH YEAR. No. 35,
EARING COMPLETION
INETY PER CENT OF THE BIG IR
RIGATION DITCH FINISHED
TER TURNED ON IN SPRING
Yet Very Little of the Land in the
Talley Under the Ditch Is Prepared
For Water.
I. C. Stevens, engineer in charge of
i West Okanogan Valley Irrigation
trlct's big irrigation project, has
on us the following data on the pro
se of construction work to date:
ixcnvation, to complete, 390,000 cu
yards. Completed Feb. 1, 1916, 367,-
cublc yards. Per cent completed,
Diverts to complete, 1,200 lin. ft.
npleted, Feb. 1,1916, 1,200 lin feet.
cent completed, 100.
'inme surface prepared' to com
ic, 145,000 lin ft. Completed, Feb.
.916, 140,270 lin ft. Per cent corn
ed, 96.
umber in place, 7,740,000 F. B. M.
ipleted, February 1, 1916, 6,510,000
1. M. Per cent completed, 84.
endwarks, to compelte, $15,000,
ipelted Feb. 1,1916, $15,000, Per
; completed, 100.
iphons, to complete, $60,000. Coin
ed Feb. 1, 1916, $51,700. Per rent
ipleted, 86.
istribution, to complete, $15,000.
ipleted Feb. 1, 1916, none. Per cent
pleted, none.
iscellaneous, to complete, $9,910.
ipleted Feb. 1, 1916, $6,600. Per
t completed, 67.
cmtractor’s bid to complete, $511,-
Completed Feb. 1, 1916, $463,000.
cent completed, 90.
will be noted that the project as a
do is 90 per cent ctrnipreiea ana
t the only portion on which no con
iction work has been done is the
ribution system.
r. Stevens says that the project
be completed and ready for ac
tance by the district by June Ist,
that water will be delivered on
le of the lands by the Ist of April,
all events water will be here in
pie time for the 1916 crop season.
Mans for the distribution system
! nearly completed. All the maps
iwing the distribution laterals and
points at which water will be de
;rod to the lands have been placed
file in Secretary Riste’s office. All
sc whose lands are affected are
;cd to call at the secretary’s office
d examine these maps and famil
ize themselves with the points of
livery for their respective tracts,
may be that certain changes can
made to the advantage of the land
ner, and where such changes are
ictlcable and do not Involve addl
nal expense they will gladly be
de, provided that the secretary is
vised at once.
The distribution system ‘is 'being
signed to provide for delivery of
iter at. the highest point, or at suf
ient elevation *o reach the highest
lat of each 40 acre subdivision,
my of the laterals will not be re
lied at the present time and it is
e intention to construct only those
»t will be used during the coming
nson.
Mr. Stevens also called attention
rcibly to the fact that little or no
w lands have been prepared for the
ceptlon of irrigation water. Under
ch conditions it would be folly to
nstrnct distribution flumes and
pe lines that will not be used ns they
mid rapidly deteriorate.
in: aiiTitl ore.
Chas .T .Peterson, who has been
asking in the Gold Bar mine for sev
al weeks Saturday brought in nam
es of ore that he Is taking out of the
ift in which he is working and
hlch follows the ledge. The ore is in
e nature of a heavily mineralized
■artz, and as choice samples as have
len seen here for a long time, at
ari ing much attention from those
iterested in mining. The most favor
ble feature of tlys ore deposit is that
lere is considerable of It in sight.
The Gold Bar group of claims are
ituated near the west end of the rall
oad tunenl, a short distance above
he falls of the Simllkameen and only
few miles from Oroville. The work
:ig shaft situated right along side
f the railroad and ore could be loaded
n the cars directly from the mine. A
roperty of this kind could not be
lore favorably located as regards
ransportation. The company has been
low for a number of years :n purli
ng developments, presumably from
»ck of funds, for there is no other
eason why the workings should not
e so far advanced to either make it
shipper or satisfy the promoters that
here is nothing in it. Rarely
as a property with such favorable
howlngs been permit'.ed to remain
uiescent for so long n time. Govern
icnt patent for the ground has been
PP’ied for, and after advertising,
‘hlch will coramenca next week, the
M kH nrTSjWfeJllr/YmxZnl /©} \vAVwiV£h vr txw ((
n EJL wMJ *
securing of title will follow in tho
course of time. To what extent tho
company will conduct work after the
issuance of the patent is not known,
yet it seems like shortsightedness, if
the mine is to remain idle, considering
the ruling prices of silver, copper and
lead.
The ledge on the Gold Bar was cur
by workmen excavating for the rail
road tunnel. Mr. Peterson located the
claims and a company was formed.
Considerable money was spent sinking
and drifting, and the result was most
satisfactory in the way of ore expo
sure. Lack of means has stood In the
way of steady, continuous work. Con
sidering the showing there should be
a strong effort on the part of those
interested to raise sufficient cash to
push investigations. The Rich Bar is
now so near being a mine that It has
ceased to be a gamble, and should the
present promise of an extensive ore
body be fulfilled the Investors would
soon have their money returned to
them many fold.
Word was received at this office
Wednesday evening of the death of W.
H. Bohannan. The sad news was slow
in reaching here, as death occurred on
the 6th of January, at San Diego, Cal.
The deceased had a number of ac
quaintances in Orovilie who will read
of his death with feelings of regret, al
though it will not be a surprise, for
when here last his appearance indicat
ed that his days on earth were about
numbered.
Mr. Bohannan came to Orovilie first
some two years, ago last December
looking over the country, and while
here assisted in getting out a holiday
issue of the Gazette. He returned to
Orovilie from Chase, B. C., about the
first of December of last year, with
the object of remaining permanently
and going into the realestate business.
At that time his health was very much
broken and he seemed in a serious
condition, but he was in good spirits,
hopeful and optimistic. To all appear
ances he was in the last stages of con
sumption. Cold weather coming on, he
decided to go to the home of his moth
er at San Diago, Cal., believing that a
change of climate would prove bene
ficial, and firm in his intention to re
turn to Orovilie in the spring. He
survived the change jeaa than a month.
Mr. Bohannan was a practical prin
ter and a journalist of more than or
dinary ability. He was one of the best
hustlers we have ever met in the news
paper business. He published papers
for a number of years on the coast, in
Montana, California, Washington and
British Columbia. Personally he was
a man of high principles and integ
rity, with one of those genial and lov
able disposition that attracts and
holds friendships. Those who knew
him best admired him for his sterling
qualities.
Mr. Bohannan was married at Chase,
B. C., some two years ago. He leaves a
wife, mother, brother and'a multitude
of friends all over the coast to mourn
his untimely death.
Talk about the longest way around
being the shortest way there, the
Great Northern certainly had an ex
perience this week that would verify
mt old saw. Monday, a large work
train, loaded with bridge builders, la
borers and material, arrived here from
Spokane, going on to Wenatchee and
from that point back to Wilson Creek
for the purpose of repairing washed
out bridges and track. The circuitous
route became necessary as the result
of the thaw of last week. Crab creek
and Wilson creek went on a rampage,
tearing out railroad and county
bridges and erasings almost the entire
right-of-way for a long distance. In
the summer time, these streames are
dry gashes through (he barren and un
inviting scenery; in the spring they
are roaring and devouring torrents.
The first break of winter has filled the
streams and considerable more, the
surplus spreading over the adjacent
country, doing a vast amount of dam
age. and this at the first and most
modest kick of spring. What it will bo
later when the accumulated snow com
mences to disappear in earnest the im
agination is unable to picture. No
trains can get over the main line be
tween Spokane and Wenatchee, and
in order to reach the west side of the
break it was necessary to make the
wide detour by the way of Oroville
and the south branch. The clerk of the
weather has handed Uncle Jimmie Hill
a bunch of hard luck this winter, and
the end is not yet. The company Is do
ing everythoing in human power to
keep the roads open, but human power
dwarfs and is helpless before the
power of the elements.
Now that the fire alarm has been
installed arrangements have been
made at the central telephone office
for pmergency calls after working
hours at night. Calls for a doctor or
in case of fires will be responded to.
In this connection it is especially re
quested that patrons of the service do
not ring in calls after closing hours
at night for frivelous purposes. If
such a practice prevails the office will
have to be closed altogether. The man
agement of the telephone system de
sires to lend every aid to perfect the
alarm system, or to accomodate those
who are compelled to call a physician,
and that courtesy should not be abus
ed.
DEATH OF W. H. BOHANNAN.
A LONG WAY ABOUND.
NOTICE TO PHONE USERS.
OK OF THOSE 0100 WOIEOS TOUT HU i COUP 101 BRASS HOOKE)
1
RECREANT MEMORY LEADS THE AVERAGE HUMAN TO RELIEVE THAT PREVAILING WEATHER, IF AH
NORMAL, NEVER HAD A COUNTERPART IN THE ANNALS OF COUNTRY.
|
SOME PERSONAL EXPERIENCES ON AN OCCASION WHEN THE WINTER WAS A TRIFLE TOUGH
Tied Up in a Blockade on the 0. R. & N, Hallway, Nearly a Tflrd of a Centnry Ago, when Man was Helpless In the
Face of the Elements, and Some of the Hardships that Befell those Caught In the Trap
an Held There fot Days,
>
t
This is a hard winter story, with
some personal experience attached
thereto, which lias kept that winter
pretty fresh in memory, although near
ly a third of a century has elapsed
since it had the land in its icy grip.
Memory is prone to be treacherous
when comparing one season with an
other, and the average human Is rather
inclined to feel that any especial dis
"comforture from abnormal metero
logical conditions is the worst ever.
The present winter is liable to be
remembered for some time for its un
kindliness, and when you come to
think about it, it has been some win
ter, both as to duration and to sever
ity. Yet, this winter of 1915-16 is not
the only shred of scrap iron in the
heap. There have been others scattered
along the march of time that earned an
unenviable reputation for heavy snow
fall, low temperature and general dis
agreeableness. Let us hark back to the
winter of 1884-5, of unpleasant memory
as a basis of comparison. That is quite
far away in the heretofore, but even to
this day those who went through the
rough of it have a touch of cold shiv
ers when recalling the occasion. Our
memory of the eventful period was
considerably stimulated this week
from reading an article from the Port
land Oregonian bearing upon an inci
dent that occurred during the unnre
cedented blockade on the O. R. & N.,
railroad, in which we took quite an
active part, much to our physical mis
ery.
In the fall of 1884, when we were
publishing a daily paper at Spokane
Falls, the head of the household, ac
companied by three infants, left for
California on a visit. In December
word was received that the family
would return by the way of Portland
about the holidays. A few days before
Christmas we left Spokane Falls for
Portland, expecting to be absent not
more than three days. Up to that time
the winter had been comparatively
mild in eastern Washington, without
an unusual amount of snowfall, and
railroad people anticipated no diffi
culty in keeping the roads open.
The next day, when The Dalles was
reached, a general change had come
over the face of nature. If there had
been little snow in far eastern Wash
ington, there certainly had been no
shortage of the beautiful around The
Dalles, and from that point westward.
At that place, and immediately In the
town, the train ran through parallel
snow banks as high as the tops of the
windows of the coaches. Considerable
delay was experienced. The train crew
waited some hours for orders, and it
became a question whether that train
could get through to Portland at all.
At last, the train, made up of an ex
press and bagage car, a day coach, a
sleeper and a second day coach in the
rear, loaded with immigrants on the
way to the coast, pulled out.
Progress was very slow and about
half way between The Dalles and Cas
cade Locks the train came to a stand
still. The snow was very deep, and a
small slide had blocked the road. A
number of passengers formed them
selves into a shovel brigade, dug the
snow out from around the engine and
cleared the track for a short distance.
Everybody was cheerful and in good
spirits, thinking that the trouble was
ut an end. At the sonorous call of “all
aboard", by Conductor Ed. Lyons, who
proved himself a prince of a good fel
low in the awkward predicament that
followed, the merry crowd swarmed in
to the coaches, little thinking what was
in store for them. Hardly had the en
gine started again when an avalanche
swept down the hill, almost completely
burying the engine, mail and express
cars. Then the situation took on a ser
ious aspect. Miles from anywhere that
assistance could be expected, fuel
short, without provisions of any kind,
with a large number of passengers, In
cluding women and children, snow
falling like a blanket, and the supply
apparently inexhaustable.
The next day, after being without
food for 24 hours. Conductor Lyons re
ported that there were several cans
of fresh oysters, a quarter of beet and
two dressed sheep in the express car
which the passengers were welcome to.
The raw oysters and a few threads of
beef were doled out to the occupants
of the sleeper, and the sheep and the
residue of the beef turned over to the
passengers in the Immigrant car. Here
la where the improvidence of some peo
ple was conspicuously illustrated.
There was no inclination to conserve
resources among the immigrants. Con
servation of resources is something
that has since come into prominence
In the world. Holes were dug down
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON, FEBRUARY 18, 1916
through the snow, huge- fires lighted
and the meat barbecued In a rough and
ready fashion. The bones of the sheep
were picked clean and the quarter of
beef entirely consumed at a single
meal.
As there was no provisions for
cooking the occupants of the sleeper
managed to dull the edge of appetite
with a few raw, frozen oysters. We
have always a weakness tor this
succulent bivalve, hut it was long
after this enforced raw oyster diet be
fore our friendship for the salt water
luxury returned, and even to this day,
the boneless, slippery, flabby mollusk,
in Its natural state, reminds us of the
time when our stomach felt It was be
ing imposed upon in trying to sustain
Its functions on straight oyster pad
ding, a trifle more frigid than stone
cold. x
As another night passed and day
dawned without relief the situation
grew more serious and alarming. Peo
ple commenced recalling grewsome
stories of shipwrecked mariners, when
lot decided who was to supply sustin
ance for survivors. But a resort to the
last extremely was happily averted by
the appearance of a of men
looming up out of the snow with packs
on their backs. This was a relief party
from Cascade Locks, where the gov
priuuont . r.Mu
sive Improvements. Mpst 'of these men
were strapping, husky Swedes, and
some Idea of the fearful condition of
the weather, and the difficulty of travel
can be understood when it is stated
that these men struggled for hours to
make a distance of about ten miles in
order to reach the marooned passen
gers, and could carry ony 20 pounds
of provisions strapped to their backs.
Moreover, two members of this rescue
party fell In the snow, utterly exhaust
ed, when within sight of the train, and
we were with the party of passengers
that went out and assisted the exhaus
ted men to warmth and shelter. All of
the party were completely fagged out
by the tramp. This relief was timely,
and as hand sleds containing provision
were hauled to the train from The
Dalles all fears of starvation were re
moved.
But the storm continued and there
was no prospect of the blockade being
raised. At a general conference of the
passengers It was decided in order to
reduce the number of people to be fed
that all the able bodied men should
walk to Cascade Locks. As few were
prepared in the way of raiment or foot
wear to encounter such weather Con
ductor Lyons gave those passengers
who were to make the hike permission
to cut up blankets in the sleeper for
footcoverings, and even the bell rope
was used to fasten the coverings to the
feet. On the third or fourth morning
after the train was stalled a large num
ber of anything but cheerful pilgrims
left the train and started on the hard
tramp, which proved to be more se
vere than any man in the party had
ever experienced up to that time. A
big, powerful foreigner took the lead,
breaking a path through the snow
followed by a long, straggling proces
sion, single file. The snow was up to
the waste of an ordinary sized man. It
was floundering and not walking, and
often members of the party fell and
had to be pulled out of the snow by
the nearest companion. At last, one
young man, of light physique, became
entirely exhausted, and sitting down
on a fallen tree refused to make fur
ther effort. That was not a heartless or
selfish collection of men, bent solely
upon their own salvation. Against his
protest the young man was taken be
tween two of his companions and half
led and half carried. When they be
came exhausted, others came to their
relief. At dark, after indiscribable la
bor, the lights of Cascade Locks, the
houses almost burled in snow, came
in view, and no storm tossed mariner
was ever more devoutly thankful for
a glimpse of a beacon light guiding him
to safety than that crowd was to see
the dully illuminated windows at the
Locks.
Anxiety for our family at Portland
determined us to walk to that city, a
distance, if our memory is not at fault,
of 55 miles. Expressing our Intention
of going on, three of the passengers, a
young man from Portland, on his way
home, whom, we afterwards under
stood, died from the effects of the ex
posure on that fearful trip, a genial
Irishman from Pendleton, and a stock
man living near The Dalles, expressed
their determination to make the jour
ney.
The cold was Intense, the wind
reaching the very marrow, fine snow
cut the face like flying particles of
steel. Not ouly was the suuw of great
depth, hut sleet had made the surface
a glare of lee, and walking was ex
tremely difficult. Some conception can
be formed of the depth of the snow on
the railroad track when it is stated
• that in many places we clung to the
• telegraph wires while slowly and
i painfully moving along.
i A rather amusing, if somewhat sur
i prising and exceedingly unpleasant
; accident occurred to us the second day
out, well along toward evening. The
party had taken to the ice on the Co
, lumbta river as easier going than on
, the land, or -where the land ought to
i be. We were in the lead. Suddenly the
ice gave way and we took an invol
untary bath. We were able to scram
ble out, with the assistance of our
companions, very much surprised and
decidedly moist. Our clothing was
frozen stiff the moment we regained
our feet. Further travel was out of the
question. After considerable search, a
stovepipe was discovered sticking out
of the snow, and upon investigation
a tunnel was found leading into a
track walker's cabin. There were but
two rooms and a small lean-to to
accomodate the family, but the hos
pitable native gave us a cordial wel
come. That night the four travelers
slept In one bed in the lean to, retlr
-nlnt nil. tdlflfii ill
eluded, and awoke in the morning
with the bed and the inside of the
shack completely covered with new
fallen snow.
The entire trip was a repetition of
adventures, but two incidents in par
ticular may be mentioned in order to
convey some idea of the hardships of
that long tramp. In many places the
snow, a glare of ice from sleet, ex
tended from the bill top at an acute
angle down to the river, which was
generally open along the shore.
Crossing these slides was dangerous
and delicate work, for in places a fly
could not have retained a foothold,
and a misstep meant shooting the to
boggan into the river. There was no
way of getting around above, and the
open water at the foot could be passed
only by swimming. At one place we
came to a stretch of this icy barrier
that there seemed no possible way
of passing. The distance across to the
softer snow was not great, probably
15 or 18 feet, but it might as well
have been a mile. The party stood on
the edge of that icy slide trying to
figure out what to do, until the mem
bers were almost frozen stiff. We no
ticed a small branch of a tree, a foot
long and some two inches in dlam
ater, protruding from the ice about
half way across the chasm and lower
down than where we were standing.
We figured out if one could make a
sliding Jump and grasp the projecting
root ho could swing on across to
safety. It was a desperate expedient,
foi If the jumper missed the stick, or
if the stick broke, nothing could save
him from a watery grave. However,
it, was make the attempt or freeze to
death. We made the dive, the stick
held and drawing ourself up on it to
a standing position, another lunge car
ried us safely across. The Portland
and Pendleton men were equally as
successful. The cattleman carried con
siderable flesh, and ho hesitated long
before taking the chance. The others
of the party walked out along the
waters edge as far as they dared in
order to catch their companion in
case he failed to connect with the
snag. At last he summoned up cour
age to make the attempt. He caught
the stick all right, but ills weight
snapped it off, and with a shriek he
shot downward. The impetus of his
lunge carried him far enough over so
that his companlone caught him be
fore he hit the water. We have often
wondered what would have become of
the residue of the party had the cat
tleman made the first attempt.
At another place we came to an ice
slide fully 100 feet wide, and this was
an absolute stall. A man cutting wood
was passed a few minutes before. He
was Induced to bring his ax and cut
notches in the ice by which means the
slide was negotiated. crossing
was made at least 100 feet above the
open water, with the searching wind
blowing almost a gale. The least mis
step, the loss of balance would have
been followed by a lightening like
passage down the smooth declivity
into the river, from which there was
little chance of rescue. Few mountain
travelers have ever taken more des
perate chances than did that quartet
of pilgrims on the memorable occas
ion during the hard, very hard, win
ter of 1884-5.
Why protract the narrative. Enough
lias been written to convince the pub
lic that the winter of 1915-16 Is not
the only hard one on record. A few
more lines. That tramp was one that
few men would have cared to take.
Along the entire route the railroad
was buried deep iu snow and Ice. A
dozen locomotives, equipped with the
old fashioned snow plow, were wreck
ed within the distance traveled. The
tramp consumed four days of the most
trying exertion. Possibly a fifth day
would have been required, but within
a few miles of Portland a farmer, for
a healthy consideration, agreed to take
us to the city in a sled. When dicker
ing over the compensation demanded,
the travelers thought that they had
met up with a highwayman, but after
that drive, even If It was only a few
miles, they were satisfied that the
granger p assessed a large and kindly
heart, and was exceedingly modest In
his figures.
This has been some winter, and rail
roads have had their burden of trouble
hut no railroad lu this upper country
has ever had the experience that the
O. R. a N., passed through the la*ter
part of December and January of
SBB4-5. It was three weeks to a day
from the time the train was snow
hound between The Dalles and Cas
cade Locks until it finally reached
Portland. Portland was then and Is
now a delightful city to visit, but there
was little pleasure in our enforced
slay at that time. We left Portland on
the very first train headed east, and
when we reached home our intended
three days’ trip had stretched out to
a full month.
ONE OF THE VETERANS.
Guy Waring, of Wlnthrop, was reg
istered at the Hotel tie Grubb last
Friday night. He came in on the be
lated Wenatchee train, and left for
Spokane Saturday morning. Guy War
ing is one of the oldest residents of
Okanogan county, and probably one
of the beat educated and most intelli
gent. He is the son of Col. Geo. B.
Waring, of New York city, in his time
one of the most prominent sanitary
engineers in the United States. Mr.
Waring came to Spokane in the early
80's, It was there we first met him,
and then the acquaintance was con
fined to merely a casual meeting. As
far as can be recalled we met him
on only one other occasion, and that
>.;/s iu 1888, at the present town of
Loomis. In those days Mr. Waring was
associated with the late J. A. Loomis,
after whom the camp was named. Mes
sers Loomis and Waring were con
ducting a store in a log cabin on the
bank of Sinlahckin creek, adjoining
Loomis to the west, and the old cabin
still stands. From that place Mr. War
ing went to the Methow valley where
he has since resided and where he is
engaged in the mercantile business.
Growing to manhood in the great me
tropolis of the country, possessed of a
brilliant mind, intelluctually for above
the average man, with a wide acquain
tainship among the prominent people
of the east capable of filling any po
sition in public or private life, Mr.
Waring elected to come west and set
tle down in this remote section, at that
time sparcely settled, difficult of ac
cess. with few features, if any, to ap
peal to a man iu his station of life. He
has stuck steadfastly to the land of
his selection. He has seen Okanogan
county develop from a wilderness to a
well settled and important subdivision
of the state, and has done his share
manfully iu bringing about that
change in conditions. It is regretted
that owing to his brief stay in Oroville
we did not have an opportunity to
meet him while he was here, a pleas
ure that wo have long hoped to enjoy
before the end of life’s chapter.
ItASKKT BALL TONIGHT.
This evening the Okanogan and
Oroville high school basket ball teams
meet In what will probably be the last
game of the season In Oroville. The
game will be called at 8 o’clock sharp.
The great interest in this contest
hinges on its settling the champion
ship of the county. Oroville has played
and won more games than any other
team in the county this season, but
some of them do not count in the
championship series, as they were
with teams outside of the schools en
tered for the struggle for this honor.
To repeat a stereotyped phase, it will
be a battle royal, as the teams are so
equally matched. Let it be a fair and
square contest. No favors should bo
asked or expected from the referee. If
our boys cannot win on pure merit, far
better lose the game. It would be far
better to lose every game played than
to boast the doubtful honor of winning
by any partiality on the part of the
man who rules over the game. Clean
sport Is honest sport, and in school
athletics especially the sports should
be conducted in a manner where there
could be no question as to honesty.
Whoever is referee tonight let him
tote fair, showing no favoritism, let
the hoys play their best, but eshew all
questionable tactics. Then whether the
game is lost or won they will have
nothing to be ashamed of.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Good music and gospel preaching
morning and evening. Morning service
at 11 o’clock. Subject of sermon:
“Shams and Imitators.” Evening ser
vice at 7:30. Subject of sermon;
"Afraid of the truth.” Wo shall have
special music at both services.
Sunday school at 10 o’clock. We
most heartily invite you to come and
enjoy all our services.
A. W. BOND, Pastor.
MIES OF IlIiE
MANY SUBSTANCES OF VALUE
STORED IN MOUNTAINS
SOME OF THE RECENT FINDS
Some Recent Discoveries Showing that
There Is a Ureal Opening for
Scientific Investigation
This Is a country of mysterious and
wonderful possibilities. Nature has
been kind la planting the Ingredients
in and upon the earth, which are only
waiting enterprise and capital to util
ize and turn into commercial use for
the benefit and enrichment of man
kind. It is a great field for the scientist
and if a flock of the right kind can
ever be induced to prospect around
and experiment there is no telling
what the result may be In the enrich
ments of the products of the county.
C. W. Smith Is very much of an as
sayer, and dabbles extensively Into
chemistry. He has an investigating
turn of mind, and is constantly prying
around in the hills, knocking samples
of rock off the surface here and there,
delving into earth deposits, and in the
privacy of his laboratory searching out
their various constituencies. He has
made some surprising discoveries, and
if he goes on in the way that he has
been going this winter there Is no tell
ing what he may uncover. Why, the
country may look forward to this part
of Okanogan county for its future
supply of many of the medlcants, dyes
1 and pharmacons of daily use. Some of
the discoveries he has made are really
remarkable, and, moreover, he baa the
goods to prove that he is laboring un
der no hallucination.
So far what Mr. Smith baa succeed
ed in in extracting or formulating
from the native roots that rib the near
by hills, and soils adjacent to town,
is confined to a few articles, and that
in small quantities, but there is great
importance even in these discoveries,
«ith a promise of more from where
these samples came from. He la do
ing his work on a small scale, be
cause his means of doing are limited.
The fact that he secures results on a
small scale is convincing evidence
that the same results would follow ef
fort on a larger scale, much to the
profit of those making the effort.
Among the various samples of sub
stances he has extracted or concocted
are crome, amonia and potassium
alum, bluestone, copperas and salt
petre. The alum is the pure quill, all
right as a taste will convince the most
skeptical. The bluestone is as perfect
as any sold on the market. The “villan
ous saltpetre,” which he "digged out
of the bowels ot the harmless earth,”
and to which he has added a trifle of
innocent charcoal, produces an explo
sive powder. It looks like the gun
powder of commerce, and a lighted
match gives an optical demonstration
that it has a kick. Mr. Smith has also
compounded dyes from material found
iu the adjacent country that will dye
and the color remains as permanently
as the “damned spot” that all the wa
ters of the ocean would not wash out.
Mr. Smith says that not one-hun
dredth ot what nature has stored away
in the mountains of this country in the
way of chemicals is known, and the
possibilities that would follow rea
search and investigation are beyond
the bounds of imagination. He has
only skimmed the surface, and a very
limited surface at that, and yet, what
he has succeeded in discovering is suf
ficient to make the public sit up and
take notice. He is very enthusiastic
over what has rewarded his investiga
tions, and he does not pretend to be an
expert in the mysteries of chemical
research. He feels confident that the
materials are at hand in inexhaustible
quantities out of which many sub
stances can be made that are now
largely imported, w’hlch have a high
value and enter largely into dally
consumption. Mr. Smith believes firm
ly that the day will come when these
resources will be handled on a large
scale and made a profitable source ot
revenue, besides contributing to the
building up of industries in this place.
MASQUBEADE BALL.
The Odd Fellows of Loomis are pre
paring to give the big dance of the
season In that camp on Friday evening
February 25, which Is to be In the na
ture of a mask ball. Whatever the Odd
Fellows of Loomis undertake to do,
they do It right, and the forthcoming
dance undoubtedly will be the most
largely attended and most enjoyable
that has been held in the old camp for
years. The Orovllle orchestra is to
supply the music. That is enough said
for that feature. The King's Daughters
are to furnish the supper, and no or
ganization can put up a better feed.
There will be representatives present
from all the surrounding country, and
it the weather is at all favorable for
traveling a large number of Orovllle
people will participate In the festivi
ties.
$1.60 PER YEAR
