THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 287.
ISAKKK, VERMONT, Fit I DAY, FKHKUAUV 18, 1010.
1'JtlCi:, OXK CKXT.
I
GREAT LOANS
TOKEEPUPWARD
Great Britain Will Be Asked
for $2,000,000,000
More
SWEDEN SEEKS AID
TO FREE THE SEA
MAKING TOTAL WAR
LOAN $10,310,000,000
Austria Has Just Secured a
Loan of German Bank
, ing Houses
London, Feb. IS.---New vote of credit
amounting to approximately A4tMHi,
000 will be asked by Premier Asquith of
the House of Commons Monday. This
will bring the total war appropriation to
2,0(12,000,000.
Berlin, via wireless, Feb. 18. Tbe Hun
garian minister of finance lias concluded
arrangements with a group of German
banks for a loan of 150,000,000 marks.
HINDU REGIMENT
REPORTED IN REVOLT
According to German Newspaper the
Soldiers Killed Twelve Officers and
Fought Two Hours Before
Being Subdued.
Berlin, Feb. 18. A minority of Hindu
troops in Egypt is reported by the Co
logne Volkszeitung. As quoted by the
Overseas News agency, it is said that an
entire regiment mutinied, killing twelve
officers, including the major, and other
Hindu troops went over to the mutineers.
After a battle of two hours the mutinous
troops were routed.
This newspaper also says that Major
(Jeneral Sir John Maxwell, commander of
the British forces in Egypt, has ordered
the withdrawal of Mohammedan troops
from the Suez canal and their transfer to
another war theatre, where they will not
Asks United States' Cooperation Partic
ularly Against Great Britain Be
cause of Detention of
Mail
Washington, I). C, Feb. 18. Another
note fitmi .Sweden has been addressed to
the statu depart ment through Min
ister Ekengren, appealing to the United
States for cooperation with the Swedish
government and other neutral nations to
maintain the preservation of rules of in
ternational law concerning the protec
tion of neutral commerce and navigation.
Action is promised particularly against
Great Britain, becauso of the detention
of mail by that country and other ag
gressions against trade regarded by Swe
den as unwarranted.
Secretary Lansing informed the min
ister, it was learned yesterday that he
could not answer the note until the con
troversy with Germany over the Lusita
nia case was settled. This latest com
munication addressed to Secretary Lans
ing and signed by Mr. Ekengren, was
presented recently after such a proposal
had been advanced and discussed from
timo to time, but until yesterday the
fact did not become known. The note
eays in part:
ABANDONMENT
OF NEUTRALITY
If United States Should Al
ter Its Well-Defined Pol
icy, Says Lodge
MIGHT LEAD TO WAR
WITH GREAT BRITAIN
Senator Endeavors to Stiff
en Pres. Wilson's
Backbone
HARVESTER CO. IS AC
CUSED OF FURNISHING
CASH FOR REVOLUTION
Levy Mayer Told Before Senate Agricul
tural Committee That Movement
Against Carranza Was
Financed by Amer
ican Concern.
Washington, 1). C, Feb. 18. Charges
that the International Harvester com
pany furnished money for arms and am
munition for the Ortez-Argimedo revo
lution against the Carranza government j tion of an embargo. Should it act other
in Yucatan, Mexico, were made to-day i wise, it would accept humiliation and in
Washington, . C, Feb. 18. Senator
Lodge, the ranking minority member of
the foreign relations committee, made a
long speech in the Senate to-day, declar
ing that the abandonment by the United
States at this time of the principle that
ports bo open to, and its citizens free to
travel iiMin merchantmen of belligerent
nations armed solely for defensive pur
poses would be an unneuftal act and a
step toward war. He said it would make
the United States an ally of the bellig
erents whose merchant marine had been
swept from the seas.
"1 cannot believe that the administra
tion thinks for a moment of altering the
well-defined position which it took at tiio
outset of the war," said Senator Lodge;
ami 1 believe it must stand as firmly
on this question as it has on the ques-
BRANDON EPIDEMIC
CAUGHT FROM WIGS
Or It ii Possible That Rented Costumes
Developed Spinal Meningitii Which,
Already Has Caused Two
Deaths.
Brandon, Feb. IS. What appears to be
a severo rpiJemia of spinal meningitis
began here last rnday afternoon, when
the sudden death of Zeno Hopkins oc
curred. The aamo afternoon Miss Fanny
l'eabody, daughter of James 1'eabody,
was taken suddenly 111, and shortly aft
erward Mr. l'eabody was stricken with
the same disease. He died Wednesday
afternoon. Miss Pvabody is in a serious
condition and it is not expected she will
live. A consultation of physicians from
Burlington and Ticonderoga was held and
the disease pronounced spinal meningi
tis. Charles V. Noedham is also serious
ly ill with the same disease.
As all who have contracted the dis
ease were in a phiv given at the town
hall last week rdnesday evening, it is
thought that they may have got the dis
ease from some of the costumes or wigs
rented from a Boston firm. Both Miss
l'eabody and young Hopkins were mem
bcrs of the high school and as a precau
tion it was thought best to close the
whole school for the remainder of the
week. r. Caverly, president of the state
board of health, was in Brandon yester
day, but did not think it necessary to
postpone any of the public entertain
ments unless a further spread of the dis
ease was evident, i
TOOK DEATH
WILLINGLY
FOR MURDER
Hans Schmidt, Standing Be
fore Death Chair at Sing
Sing Prison, Declared He
Forgave All Who Had In
jured Him and Asked For
giveness from Those He
Had Injured
STATS BEE KEEPERS.
G. C. Spencer Re-elected President at 41st
Annual Meeting.
Middleburv, Feb. 18. The 41st annual
convention of the Vermont Bee Keepers'
association was held at the Addison house
Ivestcrdav. The meet in if was called to
order at 10 o'clock Jn the forenoon by
President (1. C. Spencer of Vergennea. Re
ports of the secre
hp E. Crane
CALLS HIS EXECUTION
-JUST RETRIBUTION
Former Assistant Priest in
a New York Church Had
Confessed to Murder of
Anna Aumuller, Although
He Later Declared That
the Girl Died from an
Operation
by Levy Mayer of Chicago in the Senate
agricultural committee's investigation
into an alleged monopoly for the con
trol of the sisal market.
BARREL FACTORY BURNED.
Incendiary is Suggested at Rochester, N.
H., Blase.
Rochester, J. H., Fell. 18. Fire last
night destroyed the large barrel factory
association to bt in a good condition. The
j - ,1 i .........
cur danger of war from which even the . l,r,'8KU'"1 8 u uc..eu n
boldes'
shrink
- . . e . i. j! - I 1 T
boldest and most u.iscr.mnlo.. would JH"m8 " '"teres, lo vie nee itF..
A REPUBLICAN SCRAP.
New Slate for Delegates Presented in
Massachusetts.
PVTHIANS READY
FOR NATION'S CALL
ta
Ossining, X. Y., Feb. 18. Hans Schmidt
wrctary and treasurer, Phil- , was electrocuted at Sing Sing prison to
of Midijlebury, showed thc;day for tne nira,.r of Anna Aumuller in
New York on September '2, 1913. Schmidt rightfully belonged to the other speaker,
went quietly to the death chamber and but expressed his pleasure at being in
vited and told briefly ot Ins work:
throughout the state.
Declared Supreme, Representative Frank
M. Beckford of Mew Hampshire
Province in Addressing Barre
Pythlam and Guests.
The .Ud anniversary of the founding of
the order of Knights of Pythias was ob
served last evening by the local lodge,
Vincitia lodge, Xo. 10, at its castle hall
in the Blauchard block. A has become
customary on such occasions, each knight
was accompanied by his lady and in
many rase by one or more friends. The
program was arranged in three distinct
sections, a banquet held in the, Masonic
rooms at 7 o'clock, an address by Judge
Frank M. Beckford, supremo rcpresenta-
ive of .New Hampshire, lield in t lie lodge
riHims, and a dance held afterward in the
Masonic hall.
A committee of officers had charge of
the banquet ami aranged a repast which
suited the most critical connoisseur.
Three tables, each running the entire
cngth of the hall, were hardly sulhcient
to seat the guests and a few of those
who aided in serving at the tables were
n turn served after the guests had left
he hall, (hie hundred and seventy cov
ers were laid and there was no lack of
food for the most ravenous appetite. Car
roll's orchestra of four pieces furnished
continuous performance during the ban
quet and later the same quartet of nmsi-
tuns played for- the dancing.
At 9:1 j 1 oast master Paul I). Leavitt
gave t-ho signal and all guests and mem
bers of tho order proceeded to the lodge
rooms below to listen to the address by
uilge Beckford. It was just before tlic
ddresff that Chancellor Commander
Leavitt sprung his little surprise, for, in
stead of one speaker, two were intro-
uced. I he other was Grand Chancellor
A. Whit taker of Bellow s Falls, who
apiiened to be in this locality on busi
ness to-day and was persuaded to go out
his way a few miles to attend the an-
iversary. Mr. Whittaker declined to
ke up much of the tune which he said
ONLYONE NAME
FOR AN OFFICE
Barre Citizens' Caucus Was
an Unusually Ouiet
Affair'
5?
LANGLEY VY , NAMED
FOR V OR AGAIN
And Down Through List the
Present Officers Were
Renominated
K. Cram of Bridgewater talked on "The (before taking his seat in the death chair
Seeret of Securing a Good Crop of Oomb addressed the witnesses, saying:
Honey," followed br a general discus
sion on "The Spraying of Fruit Trees
While in Blossom." i
At 1:30 p. m. reports of several com
mittees were given followed by the elec
tion of officers, whicji resulted as fol
lows: President, tJ. C. Spencer of Ver
gennes: vice presidents, C. Davis of
Grand Isle, M. F. Craw of Bridgewater
"Gentlemen, I ask forgiveness of all
those I have injured or scandalized; I
forgive all who have injured me. My last
wish is to say good bye to my dear old
mother."
Through his attorney, Alphonse G.
Koelble, Schmidt last night issued a
said there have been frequent desertions large amount of other property. The loss ' maries April 23 for the four delegates- Bnu treasurer. F. Manchester of Middle-
among these troops. on buildings, stock and machinery will : at-large from this .state to the Rcpubli-: bury. P. E. Crane of Middlebury spoke
total more than $45,000, partially covered I ran national convention. The candidate. "Cooperation;" U. C Spencer of Ver-
T?TTTAN7A INTT INF! by insurance. ' would be unpledged, he said. . . .gennes discussed "Feeding Back to FiH
RUMANIA INCLINES
TOWARD ALLIES
Boston, Feb. IS. Gov. Samuel W. Mc
Call announced last night that he and
Senators Henry Cabot Lodge, John W.
on Orchard street ow ned bv Proctor I Weeks and former Senator U Mnrrav
fight against other Mohammendans. It is i Brothers of Xashua, and threatened a! Crane would be candidates at the pri- and R. H. Holmes of Saoreham ; secretary : statement declaring he was "fully recon-
..i.iiiurair, y. lcd to die and willingly accepted death
as retribution for his frailties." He as
serted, however, that his execution would
be due to "lying and not for murder" be
cause Miss Aumuller's death resulted
from an operation. He added that he
felt "morally responsible" for the girl's
death and could not "in honor" drag those
to ruin who took part in the operation
at my solicitation."
Portions of Anna Aumuller'. body were
found in the Hudson river but the head
never was found. In Schmidt's flat the
police found a Iong-bladed butcher knife
and other evidence that the murder was
committed there. Schmidt later con
fessed, and his sole defence was that it
was a blood sacrifice murder. At that
time Schmidt was an assistant priest at
an uptown church.
Victory of Russians at Erzerum Seems
to Have Weighed Heavily in Favor
of Intervention By That
Nation.
London, Feb. 18. Dispatches from Bu
charest state that the capture of Erzer
um by the Russians is crystallising the
decision of Rumania to intervene at an
early date, says the Rome correspondent
of the Exchange Telegraph company.
The dispatch says that in Rumania
official circles are m sympathy with the
entente. It is stated that in March
there will lie a concentration of Russian
troops in Bessarabia for the purpose of
permitting Rumania to transfer troops
to the Bulgarian frontier. This transfer
already is in progress.
In the meantime the allies are hasten
ing the transportation to Saloniki of
Serbian. Albanian and Montenegrin arm
ies which, with the French and British
troops, will make an offensive simulta
neously with the intervention of Rumania.
french line quiet,
British Active
German Official Report Says Latter At
tempted in Vain to Retake Position
South of Ypres Captured ,
By Germans.
Paris, Feb. IS. The following official
statement was issued this afternoon
"The night was calm along the entire
front,"
Delay in Tinging in the fire alarms and
the failure of hydrants to work for sev
eral minutes gave the flames a big start.
A large number of hands are thrown
out of work. Tbe factory consisted of
a twxi-story wooden building, 140 feet
long and 00 feet wide. Several sheds and
the boiler house were saved. The fire
burned for five hours and sparks flew in
all directions.
The damage on machinery is estimated
at $30,000, on the building $15,000, stock
$2,500.
The fire was discovered by Joseph Lit
tle, an employe, who heard a crackling
noise in the dryroom and then gave the
alarm.
In trying to fight the fire alone until
the arrival of the department, Mr. Lit
tle in breaking a window seriously cut
his hand.
The fire is believed to have been of in
cendiary origin.
Gov. McCall said the plan was put for- nhnislied factions; ana i. i a ana
ward in the interest of harmony in the I J- ane ot '.MiudieDiiry on me
party and in the belief that it would slty for an'1 Growth of Interest in hweet
unite the action of the delegates. j Clover." The inspectors also gave an in-
FOR FREE SUGAR REPEAL.
It was said that former Lieutenant
Governor Louis A. Frotbingharo and for
mer Congressman Butler Ames had been
asked to be candidates for alternatcs-at-large.
The slate announced yesterday will be
opposed at the primaries by one com
posed of Congressman A. P. Gardner, for
mer Lieutenant Governor Grafton i).
dishing, Charles Sumner Bird and State
Senator Robert M. Washburn, who have
declared themselves desirous of going to
the national convention as delegates-at-large,
pledged to the support of Theo
dore Roosevelt for the presidency.
teresting talk on "The Foul Brood Sit
uation.
LITIGATION OVER GRANITE PLANT.
SPECIAL TERM ENDS.
Democrats Hope to Save $40,000,000 An
nual Income.
Washington, D. C, Feb. 18. Repeal of
the free sugar clause of the L'nderwood
tariff law was approved as a party meas
ure late yesterday by the House Demo
cratic CaUCUS. Mie VOW Was 4 tO M, lorir,llan f rover m-Gon to renoi-..r for
As the law now stands, sugar would lH: flI.llm,hil Wistnrs the. TilnintilT
. i. . i : i it t 1
f ii tut; iiw iittt limy i, wiiu con
sequent estimated revenue loss at the
Supreme Court Concludes Sessions at
Brattleboro.
Brattlcboro, Feb. 18. The special term
of the supreme court which has been in
session here since Tuesday morning, came
to a close yesterday afternoon. Several
cases were submitted on briefs.
The case of Manlev Brothers, garage
proprietors, against the Boston & Maine
railroad and the Crystal Spring Ice Co.,
Berlin, via London, Feb. 18. The Brit
ish have made a new attempt to retake
a position in south of Ypres,, Belgium,
recently captured by the Germans but
were driven off with heavy losses, it was
officially announced to-day.
PEREMPTORY STRIKE ORDER
Issued By Mob Which Poured Into Mills
at Ansonia, Conn.
Ansonia, Conn.. Feb. 18. The city of
Ansonia is in the throes of its largest
ami mnut niiranrifinflpv luK.tr 4r,iKla
The peculiarities of the strike which
closed all the mills here of the American
Bras company are that the strikers,
about 4.5UI in number, are mostly of
foreign birth, are unskilled, and although
speaking a dozen Kuropean languages,
have been secretly welded into one or
ganization without the assistance of an
officer of organized labor unions.
The mill officials, who were taken com
pletely by surprise, have as yet been
unable to rind the agency through which
the great body of men was suddenly
moved into action.
Yesterday afternoon, suddenly, hun
dreds of men swept through the w ire
mill of the company, making everyone
stop work, not permitting men to dis-
kiw of molten metal that thev bad in
bottles or even to change their working
clot be.
rate of $40,000,000 annually. The repeal,
which is expected to pass both Houses
before May 1, is provided for in a bill
prepared by Majority Leader Kitchin.
Mr. Kitchin told the caucus yesterday
tuat the preparedness program was go
ing to cost the government a great deal
of money and that the expense will have
to be met with as little burden upon and
annoyance to the people as possible. He
said that while the committee has not
formed any conclusions be thought the
majority sentiment favored meeting the
preparedness expenditures mainly from
the income tax and by resort to an excise
tax on special articles and munition man
ufacturers,
HOUSTON'S CHOICE
SEEMS LIKELY
Washington, D. C Feh. 1.
The impreinn grew in ofTx-ml cir
cles to-day that Secretary Hous
ton will be transferred to Cm- wtf
d-rfliyTent to ucrd Garriixni.
SrTetry Hout smilingly re-fue-i
to !er questions on the
object.
NOT UNDULY INFLUENCED.
Although He Was of Unsound Mind
When He Made $160,000 Will.
Boston, Feb. 18. A jury last night
declared that illiam H. Storev of Flym
outh, N. H., was not of sound mind when
he made his will disposing of $160,000,
A decision was returned, however, that
no undue influence was used by others
in connection with the making of the
will. The jury was out nine hours.
Storey s eccentricities were the subject
of much of the testimony during a four
weeks' hearing of the case, in the course
of which witnesses told of two fale eves
which he had obtained to take the place
of one he had lost. It was brought out
that Storey had a blue eye and a black
ye, made especiallv for him, and wore
either to match his costume.
Four cousins of the dead man contest
ed the will. Mm-t of the property was
eft to charitable and religious institii
tion.
THE SUBMARINE SITUATION.
Pres. Wilson Discussed It with Lansing
and Then with Full Cabinet.
Washington. I). 0 Feb. RThe sub
marine situation with its developments
was diseuswd at to-day's cabinet meet
ing. Secretary of Stste I-ninff went to
tbe White Hnue before the cabinet as
sembled and .liKiiwd the qution with
ITeident V itaon at some lenrth. It was
indicated to-dsy that Austria too would
be notified of aiutirance which the
t"it-d i ak.iir for tbe future, mi that
th potH of this gmrrnment mar he
fully and uniformly kna V the rr
Man allies.
claims were not delivered, was submit
ted on briefs.
The case of Leslie E. Stratton of Wil
liamsville against Holden & Martin of
Brattleboro, involving a lumber deal in
which the county court gave judgment
for the plaintiff in the sum of $740.13,
was argued this morning.
The arguments in the case of Dana H.
Oilman, administrator, against the Hoo
sac Tunnel &. Wilmington roalroad, were
niadit This has to do with the death of
Roberto Doniencini, a section hand on the
defendant railroad, who was killed by a
fall of rock. A verdict against the com
pany for $2,000 was given last Septem
ber by a jury in the county -ourt.
Barre Savings Bank Gets Injunction
Against Ossola & DunghL
A bill of compla'int has been filed in
county court by the Barre Savings Bank
&. Trust company vs. Joseph Ossola ana
h. Dunghl and the defendants have hied
answer to the orators allegations. Ac
cording to the orator's specifications, the
defendants, were indebted to F. G. How--land
of Barre on Aug. 24, 1911, in the
sum of $11,000 and, being unable to make
a satisfactory payment when due, prop
erty consisting of a granite plant on the
Montpelier road wa turned over to the
orator a year ago. The orator avers
that the defendants agreed to transfer
the property but since that time have
interfered with the owners and occu
pants. Judge Frank L. Fish has issued,
following a hearing, an injunction re
straining the defendants from interfer
ing with the possession of the property.
Other cases entered ,in the county
clerk's office are as follows: Ernest A.
Hewlett vs. Clara E. Hewlett, divorce;
Lydia Smith vs. Clarence Smith, divorce;
Pearl-Peacocks Kerr vs. Granite City
Coal Yard, M. M. Wilson for the plain
tiff, an action of general assumpsit;
Dennis Pocket vs. George H. Almon et
aux, remanded from supreme court;
Alice R. Phillips vs. Harry Cutler, also
remanded for trial from' supreme court.
FIRST EXECUTION
HELD IN 23 YEARS
Oscar J. Comery Wis Hanged at New
Hampshire State' Prison at Cpncord
for Murder of His Wife.
CHORUS BRIDE JOINS HUSBAND.
VERMONT VETERANS' ASS'N.
Of Boston and Vicinity Held 28th An
nual Banquet.
Boston, Feb. 18. The Vermont Vet
erans' association of Boston and vicinity
held its 28th annual banquet and ladies'
night at Young's hotel last night with
about 40 members and guests present.
Owing to sickness several of the expect
ed guests and several prominent mem
bers were unable to attend.
In the absence of Pres. William C.
Vorris of Nashua, w ho is sick, Vice-Pres.
Felix W. McGettrk of Boston was
toastmaster. The guests and speakers
were George P. Martin, commander of
the department of Vermont. G. A. R.,
who represented Gov. Gates of Vermont;
Hon. Thomas .1. Boynton, who repre
sented Masnarlmi'etts; V.. .1. Matterv,
representing Mayor Curley and Rev. R.
Ferrv Hush of Incises.
Besides the speaking there was sincinjr
by Prof. H. I . Mark and Mrs. Ma. k of
fWtnn. Prof. Slack is a son of Col. W.
IL H. Mack of Hcmiington. Yt, a mem
ber of the association.
Jennie Chik Goes to Bangor, Whither
Her Husband Was Ordered Home.
Brattleboro, Feb. 18. Jennie Chik, s
she was known with the Bob Oft show,
Jennie Ossiledchik as she was before her
marriage in Burlington Jan. 28 to Harold
j Kugene Joijes of Bangor, Me., left the
company here yesterday and started for
Hangor to join her husband. Jones, after
his marriage to the girl, was forced to
leave her in Burlington and journey back
to his Bangor home on eremptorv or
ders from his father. His girl wife was
obliged to remain with the company two
weeks until her successor could be "brok
en in. She played her last performance
Wednesday night and was- the center of
all eves.
FUNERAL OF J. W. McDONALD.
STRIKERS ACCEPT COMPROMISE.
Central Vermont Freight Handlers Take
Two Cent Increase.
New Indon. Conn.. Feb. H. The
trtke of 175 freight handler on the
entral ermont railroad, w hich has been
in proj-res a wrrk. was settled lst
Held at Congregational Church and Was
Largely Attended.
The funeral of John W. McDonald,
prominent in the Barre granite industry
and a former alderman, who died at his
home, 69 Hill street Monday morning,
after an illness of five weeks, was held
at the Congregational church Thursday
afternoon at 2 o'clock. Previously a brief
prayer service was held at the bouse. Rev.
I. W . Barnett, pai-tor of the church, was
the officiating clergyman and the bearers
were: James Maokay, Alexander Dun
can, V. K. Avers, Kenneth Nicholson,
James K. Pirie and Alexander Young.
Masonic bodies, with which Mr. Mc
Donald was affiliated for many years,
were largely represented and the Mssonic
ervii-e was ued at the church. I'shers
for tbe service at the church were sup- j
plied from a detail of M Aldemar com-j
mandery Knipht Templar. Pro-esion- 1
I and re.ionl mnic was played hr
Concord. X. H., Feb. 18. Oscar J. Com
erv, wife murderer, was hanged in th
state prison here this morning, shortly
after midnight.
The trap was sprung at 12:32, and he
was legally dead at 12:45.
The execution was the first in the state
in 23 vears. Since the hanging of Frank
C. Aliny, in 1893, for the murder of
Christie Warden, and the subsequent
amending of the statutes to place upon
the jury the burden of imposing the ex
treme penalty, no jury had made this
recommendation until Comery was con
victed.
Comery pleaded guilty. His wife died
at her home 111 Manchester on Nov. 29
1914. The physician's certificate gave
acute indigestion as the cause of death
and the body was buried without inves
tigation.
Ihiring the next month, however, the
authorities learned from a clergyman in
whom "Mrs. Comery had confided, and
who conducted her funeral, that there
were suspicious circumstances attending
her illness. The body was exhumed and
analysis of the stomach by the state
chemist showecr that the woman bad died
from poisoning.
Comery was arrested on Jan. 1, 1915,
and later confessed that he had poisoned
his wife.
ON HIS OWN RECOGNIZANCE.
Herbert Smith Wss Again Arraigned To-
Herbert Smith, a Graniteville man, who
has been detained at police headquar
ters since Wednesday in default of fur
nishing $1,000 bail, was arraigned in city
court again this morning and allowed to
go on his own recognizance, the case be
ing continued by Magistrate H. W. Scott
until Feb. 25. Smith was arrested by
Deputy Sheriff IVnnis Donahue on a com
plaint made to the state's attorney
charging that he assaulted one Alex Sart
well on the Graniteville road one dark
nijrht in the autumn of 1915. Tbe com
plaint also alleged that it was Smith's
purpow to rob Sartwell. Smith's defense
is said to be an alibi. He has retained
Attorney A. A. Sargent.
At the close of Mr. Whittaker's re
marks Judge Beckford was introduced.
His talk was primarily an effort to instill
into the hearers some of the enthusiasm
for Pythianism which he himself feels
after some twenty-five years of service
as a member and officer of the lodge. He
dwelt chielly on the patriotic spirit which
should fill every true knight. "No matter
what vonr politics are, said the judge,
"your duty now is to support President
Wilson and to do all in-yoiir power to
keep this country from becoming em
broiled 111 a war. If, however, war
should become necessary to uphold the
honor of the country the speaker stated
that the order was prepared to furnish
several thousand nwn from the -Uniform
rank who are trained in the tactics of
the United States government and are
bound by oath to take their places at
the front if necessity demands. He also
told of the spirit of friendship which it
is the object of the order to toster and
cited instances where the mere fact that
a man was a member of the order had
secured him immediate aid in trouble or
illness and had kept his family from
want in case of his decease. A pica for
increased enthusiasm in securing new
members and in keeping up the interest
of the old ended diis speech.
Following the address those of the
party who had the inclination and the
ability to follow the rhythm of the mu
sic with nimble feet betook themselves
again to the hall upstairs, where dancing
was enjoyed until midnight. Old dances
were the rule and, encouraged by this,
couple after couple glided onto the floor
until the hall was almost too crowded for
the best individual efforts. For those
who did not care to dance, card tables
were set out1 in the lodge rooms and
whist and ".500" were played.
Through the courtesy of the mcitia
club the club rooms on the third floor
were opened for the reception of the la
dies and guests before the banquet and
the smoking rooms were accessible to
the centlemen throughout the evening.
The thanks of the officers are extended
to the younir ladies' and gentlemen who
so ably assisted in the serving of the
banquet. Lnconiaged by the marked
success of the affair last night it is like
ly that other informal ladies' nights will
be held by the lodge during the present
season, aside from smokers open to lodge
members only.
A complete slate of nominees for the
March elections was named 'at the citi
zens' eauciM in the opera house last even
ing without the semblance of any opiKwi
tion to the names presented and con
firmed by oral vote. Owing to the cle
ment of apathy that has settled down
over the political situation in Barre to
date, at least, the attendance was small
and within 15 minutes after M. S.
Rounds, chairman of the Republican city
committee, had called the caucus to order
a motion to adjourn was carried and
some 200 voters were leaving the hall.
Mayor F. E. Langley, who is complet
ing his first term in the city executive
chair, was given a renomination and the
remainder of the citizens ticket was rat
ified as follows, a renomination being
the order in each instance: For city clerk
and treasurer, James Mackay; first con
stable, George L. Morns; second con
stable, George W'. Parks; auditors, I). J.
Sullivan, William B. ,Mnrrion and Wil
liam Stephen; directors of French's Barre
library, John W. Gordon, R. S. Currier
and F. G. Howland; assessor for three
years, Augustus M. Rossi.
Consonance of opinion seemingly
marked tho nomination of every candi
date. On the question of selecting nom
inees for sevefciil offices a harmonious
concert of opinion seemed to. prevail
where in most years there have been
good-natured but oftentimes exciting
contests. Not a ballot was cast and brief
nominating speeches awoke none of the
enthusiasm that is usually manifested
when a -contest is on. Frank G. How
land was chosen chairman after the call
had been read and James Mackav was
elected to serve as clerk.
The name of Mr. Langley was put in
nomination by William McDonald of Ad
dison place. James Mackay was nom
inated for tho office of city clerk by
Stephen Ri.zi and for the treasurership
by S. E. Perry. M. S. Rounds presented
the name of George L. Moiris as a nom
inee for the office of first constable and
his understudy in the constable business,
Mr. Parks, was nominated by O. J.
Howes. When it became evident that
the customary contest over the second
constableship was to be waived, those
who were looking for a forensic brush to
enliven the occasion gave up hope.
Henry Alexander nominated the three
candidates for the auditing offices and the
present directors of French's Barre li
brary were nominated by F. E. Langley,
C. W. Melcher placed in nomination the
name of Mr. Rosi for the assessorship
and when the chairman had done with
what had'developed into the formality of
I putting the question to a vote by ac
clamation, the caucus adjourned.
TAYLOR 0. PARKER.
Native of Woodbury but for Many Years
a Resident of Barre.
After a period of ill health covering
several years following a shock, Taylor
O. Parker, a well known Barre man,
Othir Caucuses To-night.
Ward "caucuses for the nomination of
candidates to go before the voters on
the citizens' ticket in March are to he
held this evening at 7:30 o'clock. In
ward two voters will meet at Spaulding
school to nominate an aldermanie candi
date. Ward four voters will meet at the
Brook street school to nominate an al
dermanie candidate and in ward five, at
the Woodchuck Knoll school, a school
commissioner is to be nominated. Ward
six voters, who are to meet in the city
courtroom at citv hall, are to nominate
candidates for the offices of alderman.
and school commissioners.
Socialists are to hare their city cau
cus in the Granite street auditorium this
evening at 7 o'clock and at 8:.10 o'clock
the Socialist ward caucuses will be held,
in places to be designated at the city
caucus.
KNOCK GRANITE BALUSTRADE OFF
And Other Slight Changes Made Kelly
Bid for State Building Acceptable.
There w ill lie slightly less Barre gran
ite in the new state building in Montpe-
passed away at the home of his daugh- Her than originally specified because the
er. Mrs. Charles C. Kenyon, on Sheridan state commission nan 1. 1 eliminate
granixe oaniNirHuc u mr , u .,.v..
the proposed structure, together with an
elevator and certain interior decorations,
amounting m all to nearly fiu.mai, 111
BURIAL AT RANDOLPH.
night, when the strikers aree.tl a com- j Mrs. E. 4. Bat. he Her. The services railed
promise offer of two rents an hour In- j farther a very representative father
rreae in wpe. Many of the striker ' ine of m-n bo are at present er in times
relumed to work Ut iifH. and all t-ie'pji.t hate been interested in the develop
trike bresk-rs left the city. About 4-,m-ut of the pTsnite inHi-trT of I'-aire.
freight ear. wbi-h have l-en tn-d up in 1 The remain of Mr. M-lknald were
Mrs. Jane E. Dutton Died at Greenfield,
Mass.
Greenfield, Mas.. F.h. 18. Mrs. Jane
E. Putton. 7. died yesterdar at the
home of her daughter. Mr. Frank O.
Wells, on GrinneP street, after an illne
of three wk. She was native of
Fraintree. Vt.. and the body m dl be
tsk. n to Randolph. t, for burial.
Funeral k-m -- be held at t!te
home Siindav afternoon, w it h Fev. John
street last evening at 5:30 o'clock, death
being due to heart trouble which was
ggravated by the grip. He was able to
be out doors as late as last Saturday,
nd shortly after being taken sick he
as removed to the home of Mrs. Ken-
on because or uine in 111s o n rimue
t 110 South Main street.
Taylor Orleans Parker ws born in
Wuodburv on (Vt. 29, lstti. the son of
is.nh and Sallv (Ormsbeel Parker.
When he was a child his parents moved
. Marshlield and there he resided until
May. 1KH4, when be removed to Barre.
Since that time he had resided in Barre.
being engnged at various times in the
wood business, then as superintendent of
road construction and more recently as a
teamster. While residing in Marshfield
he was engaged in farming.
Xfr. Parker ws first married to Irene
Lamberti'n of Marshlield. their marriage
oecurrinif Nov. 17. 19. She di.-d in
June 177. In l"4 Mr. Parker married
Ia belle .1. Hawkins of Marhhrl I. and she
order to brinjr the lowest of the 21 bids
recently submitted within the $14IMM(
appropriation for the unfurnished build
ing. Those eliminations in the plan
having been effected, the general build
ing contract has been awarded to George
T. Kellv of Yonkcrs. N. Y., whose orig
inal bid was 1.1!I.4SS. The steamtitting
bid at the same time was awarded t
Isaac Collin Co. of Hoston at $H.W9 and
the electric wiring contract to the Lord
Electric Co. of Boston at $.l.990.
The bid of Msrr A Gordon for the con
tract to furnish the granite for the struc
ture wss .."i."iO. and ti l-" amount was
included in the complete mtraet price.
Msrr & Gonion were notified of the defi
nite award and it i" expected tlt the
wotk of getting out tie stsk will l
nislicd at once. The Mope i to finii"
from the Wet more A Morse l.ranite ( o.'s
quarries. Mr. Kellv. the Min-essful bid
der for the main contract, was fie twill. I-
the jmrJs Le, w.U be m -ted t day. flawed ia tl t- asb at Llaiwood cemetery. B. W. Iy of All Souls' church oi tatiag. onr.t flower.
survives him, together with two children jer of Montpelier new- tnh school hiul1
of the first marriage, Mrs. Ocorge K. . ir,g and in Cut woi k lie gave general
Bond and Mrs. K. W. Pea roe. both of satisfaction. 1 "hp new ttc building "ill
Itarre. and s daughter by the second he brxtei on Mute IxtmI south of th
msrrisge. Mrs. ( bsrles C. Kenyon. lo 'State lou-e and next to the Pavilion
of Barre. j rofr-1 proierty on stste stre. t.
The funeral service wi.I I hrl.J st 110
South Main street Saturday m.,rnir-g at
10:3U o'rbsk. Rev. J. B. Kcar-Ioti cfjriat-
ing. and the ffim Ins will he tiVen .i !
Marshal! for f i.risl in t'.e ItwineM ,t 4v t't Mr. A
cetfetery. A rcr servue ill te Idd h.- a ati; nl.
t the grue. Friend rr re-me-te l tj-sxth s ir I m ti
Witl Be a Candidate
, of H. ' TV
r enounce 1
v.ir r la- c -.- !
r i :iTii.4n fro-Ti tije
citiens eaiiru to-
