" .... t
tee wosso time
PAGES 1 TO 8
"OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVII
OWOSSO, MICHIGAN. FEB. 18. 1916.
NO. 47
",4
i
Lincoln School Reception.
The public is Invited to visit the new
Lincoln school. Friday evening. An
informal program will be given.
Postal Orders to Greeoe.
Postal monev orders may now be
drawn on Greece. For some time per
sons desiring to send money to Greece
hftvft been unable to do so. as a result
of the conditions arising from the war
These conditions have been so remedied
as to make the transfer of money to the
old country safe. Bat three countries
Turkey, Austria and Belgium are now
cnt off from United States postal order
business.
Mrs. Perrv Unwilling.
Judge Miner has refused to annul the
divorce decree given Mrs. Myrtella
Perry of Perry, recently. E. O. Perry,
the husband, claimed a reconcilliation
had been effected but the wife, after
acreeincr to it. claimed she was sick
and had been over-persuaded but ad
mltted that she might again change her
mind later but preferred to be free for
the present. The husband claimed that
daughters bv a former husband had
made the trouble.
Bankers Dlsouss Business
"Group 7" branch of the Michigan
State Bankers' Association held a meet
ing at Durand, Saturday, with forty in
attendance. The meeting proved in
teresting and instructive. Vernon
Tourje welcomed the visitors and J. A.
McAlvay of Lansing, responded. John
H. Johnson, president of the Peninsular
State bank of Detroit, gave an able ad
dress on "The Trust Department for a
State Bank," which was followed by
a discussion, after which remarks were
made by James Martin of Flint, L. P.
Van Winkle of Howell, and B. P. Hlc'.'s
of Durand.
, Dinner and supper were served in the
Congregational church.
King's Daughters Incorporate
The Owosso Circle of King's Daugh
ters has been incorporated and the fol
lowing compose the board which will
' have charge of the Dorcaa home: Mrs.
F. M. Crowe, chairman; Mrs. T. M.
Euler, assistant chairman; Mrs. Wm.
Vreeland, secretary; Mrs. F. E. Kohler,
treasurer; Mrs. T. M. Wiley, enrollment
secretary;' Mrs. Nlles Wiggins, pur
chasing agent; Mesdatnes XL E. Payne,
H. H. Allen and R. H. Thomas, mem
ber of the ways and means committee.
The following were elected to the
offices named under the new constltu
tion: Mrs. T. O. Christian, third vice
president; Mrs. L. L. Conn, correspond
ing secretary and Mrs. C. V. Page,
financial secretary.
W.C.T. U. Election."
The W. C. T. U. met at the hptne of
. Mrs. Luther Opdyke Friday afternoon,
and the following officers were elected:
. President Mrs. Elizabeth Hale
f - Vice Pres at-large Louisa Coon
' tcrtary Nina . Hook. ; )
, Treasurer lnaSidoian.
Asst. treasurer Laura Chapman.
: First Vice Pres Kate Sherwood.
ry cjecona vice rres riora onuits.
: Third Vice Pres Laura Getman.
OjV; Fourth Vice Pres Matilda Bowers.
, 1 JTif th Vice Pres Maggie Young.
Sixth Vice Pres Ella McKenzte.
:Saft. of FIcwjr Mission Rose Bailey
Supt.' of Evangelization Julia John
aony ", ' A
; 9...T. I. Mattibelle Getman. .
'NarcoticsSarah Rathbun.
Sabbath Observances Elizabeth Col
by- V '
Press Ina SIdman.
' 8upt. of Mother's . Meetings Jane
.Finch.-' - ,
V' 'Sf , Memorial Services. ,
" ' .Quacienbush Post G:A U. and the
"' 'W. R. Cfr held memorial services Satur-
day at theG. A. R. hall on Main street
in1nemory, cf members who had passed
i'." away in the last year.
' ':j.fltv, O?- H., Hanks spoke on "Our
Memorial Day" paying tribute to those
V: vrho had di&f in 1915. :. :
Rev. HJ1 A W?dte gave a tine address
on ''Abraham Lincoln."
y Informal tlks were made by several
' Veterans and ladlcsi.nd Comrade C. C.
. Duff sang a patriotic song. '
- . After the . qxerclses at the hall the
. xnembers raised a new , flag over the
;:nfTy, a beautiful six by nine, foot
mblefc a gift from the Post. ,' i '.
v Those wA6 taye passed away duting
M the year4were Kills W. Ott, Asa' Lacey,
iV7ilUam'Halad' Myron Nye, Eugene
V" ju n g, 'Joel- Potter, Win. Harrf sJ en
Tne" Parks, ngusta B. Davie, Cathe-
iSe Moyses, LucyVWicklng, Emma
. -proe-. Josephine Dyer, fioutse Mon
h on. T)ATy A chair was
?e& DanleleJ
. n ' Kotlor of
Rev.'. Thomas
vl 'n horvrary jneniber of the ton of Midland and Hyatt Hutton of ent?, Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Geeck, Ada the evealng.eewlng and sociability were' living.. Good pleaded not. gniUy . when ed that she be placed la the mental .' '
" ' ' I Colby, Wis., also survive. . a Utrect. enjoyed.,. . ' r. -. . stralgped' before Justice Frlegel.".' Tward fofobseryation. - ::." r
, - -e.. " v- ' ' ' - j .' . ' .,t , ; ' V .y. ;' . s- . . .. "..-;.'-
Travelers' Club.
' The Travelers' club was entertained
at the home of Mrs. Chas. Harnack,
Mulberry street, Thursday afternoon.
After a short study period the after
noon was spent socially in honor of St.
Valentine.
Demurrer Overruled.
Judge Peter F. Dodds who heard the
argument for a demurrer in the case of
H. McDonald vs. L. C. Hall and others
in the $20 000 damage suit, has over
ruled the motion and the case is now
ready for trial. The cause of the suit
is an alleged unwarranted prosecution.
Files Bankruptcy Petition.
Harry Neeley has filed a petition in
bankruptcy claiming assets of $411.38
and liabilities of $921.63, being the re
mainder of his stock of groceries at
Kerby, Mich. The creditors are whole
sale grocers. Mr. Neeley claims that
he did a large business at first but that
sales in larger towns and cities spoiled
the business.
Mr. Neeley has gone to Detroit to
work and his wife and daughter are in
Corunna for the balance of the school
yeor.
Woman's Club.
An especially interesting meeting of
the Woman's club was held at the
library building Feb. 10, Mrs. F. J.
McDannel being in charge of the sub
ject "American Music and Musicians."
Mr. McDannel presented a paper coy
ering the history of American music,
the talk being illustrated by produc
tions of American composers by Mrs.
S. Q. Pulver and Miss Gladys Reineke,
and songs by Miss Lillian Vogel and
Rhea Buckley. Mrs. McDannel ren
dered a fine banjo selection.
PETITION TO MORTGAGE FILED
If Granted Owosso Opera House
Will Be Remodeled.
Eugene Brewer, trustee of the Salis
bury property known as the Owosso
opera house, has filed a petition for per
mission to mortgage the. property for
$5,000 and if It is granted, will, with
Dr. G N. Finch, remodel the theatre
into A ground floor theatre with mod
ern seating, lighting, stage and en
trance. By arrangement with David
Salisbury the other heirs have planned
so that the buildings, which are pecu
liarly owned and occupied, will be in
shape to give the city a real theatre
and the public will be pleased if it be
comes a realty.
Clinton County Republican Club Ban
quet.
The annnal meeting of the Clinton
County Republican Club will be held at
the St. Johns National Bank hall at 6
o'clock, p. m., February 24th. The club
Is planning for the biggest banquet ever
held. The . following speakers have
definitely promised to be present and
speak:
Former Vice President and United
States Senator Charles W. Fairbanks of
Indiana, who is one of the Republican
candidates for President of the United
at the present time; Congressman Jo
seph W. Fordneyi Former Congress
man Garritt J. Dlekema, Lieutenant
Governor Luren D. Dickinson, Former
State Treasurer Albert E. Sleeper.
Former Secretary , of State and Con
gressman Washington Gardner.
It is just possible that Senator Wil
liam Alden Smith may also be present,
and if he is the club will have two good,
real live candidates for President, beside
four announced candidates for governor.
It is hoped that a number of Shiawas
see county Republicans will arrange to
attend the banquet. Tickets can be
obtained of Milo R. VacDeusen, St.
Johns.
Death of Mrs. Maria Halstead.
Mrs. Maria Halstead, aged 71 years,
died Saturday at the ' home of her
daughter near St. Johns. The remains
were brought to Owosso and placed in
the vault at Oak Hill cemetery, a brief
prayer service being read by Rey. J.
Hartley Canefield.
Miss Maria Uutton was born In New
York state, coming to Michigan in in
fancy. She was married to Addison
Porter and to them one child, a daugh
ter, was born. , After Mr. Porter's death
she married Newton Wiley of St. Johns,
who also passed away. Fourteen years
ago she was married to Wm. II. Hal
stead of Owosso, who was killed by an
interurban car near Bennington four
months ago. Mrs. Halstead, who had
been in ill health for several years,
then went to live with her daughter,
Mrs Alfred Palmer in St. John, where
she passed away. She is also survived
by one sister Mrs. O. F. IlAlstead, who?e
usband Is a brother of the late Mr.
Halstead. Two brothers. Charles Hut-
Pioneers to Meet in Corunna Wash
ington's Birthday.
The annual meeting of the Shiawas
see County Pioneer Society will be held
at the court house, Tuesday, Feb. 22,
the morning session being called to
order at tl o'clock. The meeting is al
ways the occasion for a large gathering
of the older residents of tne county, and
the program includes the recounting of
interesting stories of the pioneer days.
Joint Studio Recital.
Miss Mabel Ferry and Miss Merle
Lemon presented the following pupils
in a joint studio recital at the home of
Miss Ferry, Adams street, Tuesday
afternoon at four o'clock: Reatha
Hale, Gustin Greenwald, Emll Raatz.
Don Besley, Emily Osmer, George
Wiley Campbell, Kenneth Osmer, Es
ther Boutell, Joyce Terry, Loraine
Dawson, Margaret Reineke and Esther
Finch. The pupils delighted the listen
ers and showed the excellence of their
training.
Farmer Alleged Bootlegger.
William Howd, who has a small farm
near Vernon, was arraigoed before
Justice Nichols in Corunna, Wednes
day charged with violation of the local
option law by storing liquor in a place
other than his home. It is claimed he
kept It at the Vernon hotel. Howd de
manded an examination, which was set
for February 23 and furnished a bond
of $300 for his appearance at that time.
The sheriff says he has evidence that
Howd has been bootlegging in Vernon.
Masquerade Enjoyed.
Several hundred people enjoyed the
masquerade ball at the Odd Fellows
temple Monday eyenlng. Oyer fifty
couples in costumes both beautiful and
funny kept the crowded gallery guess
ing as to their identity until the close
of the grand march when all unmasked
and with additional dancers from the
gallerya enjoyed the party until mid
night. The room was cleverly decor
ated nnder direction of Ernest Hay
ward. The proceeds, $100, were given
to Christ Episcopal church.
- Death of Mrs." W. B. Servlss "
Mrs. Warren B. Servisa died at her
home in Saginaw, Monday. She had
been in poor health for a long time, and
an attack of pneumonia proved fatal.
Short funeral services were held at
Sginaw, Tuesday and the remains tak
en to Greenville for interment.
Mrs. Servisa lived in Owosso for seve
ral years, her husband haning been con
struction superintendent for the Union
Telephone Co. nntil he became manager
of the Saginaw Valley Telephone Co.
School Officers.
The annual meeting of echo ol officers!
of the county was held In the court j
room at Corunna, Wednesday, with a
large attendance from all parts of the
county.
Geo. N. Otwell deputy superinten
dent of public Instruction presided and
made several good talks in answer to
many questions and he explained
changes in the school law. He stated
that after July 1, 1016, It will be neces
sary to have had at least six weeks
normal training or five months teaching
experience in order to be elegible to a
position.
Hon. Fred L., Wood worth,
senator
of the Uuron-Sanillac district for four
years, and previously for the same
length of time a member of the house
spent a couple of days this week in the
county in the interest of the candidacy
of Hon. A. E. Sleeper one of the aspir
ants for the Republican nomination for
Governor. Sen. Woodworth was rec
ognized during his service in the legis
lature as one of the dependable men
who could always be counted upon to
do what he believed to be right and for
that reason has many warm friends
throughout the state
pleased to meet him
who are both ,
and inclined to
giye more than a passsng though to any
subject in which he may be interested.
His advocacy of Mr. Sleeper as the most
available candidate for governor is
quite convincing.
The State Fira Marshal the past few
months has received many complaints
regarding smokinir in crarairn. Hmnk
ing in a very dangerous practice in a
garage under any and all circumstances
acd must be strictly prohibited. A
lighted cigar or cigaret or a spark from 1
a pipe in a garage where many gallons
of gasoline are stored In machines may
cause the loss of human lives and thou- j
sands of dollars of valuable praperty.
The proprfttor of each and every garage
In Michigan should at once post "NO ,
SMOKING" signs in and about the
building and should eject customer or
employee violating tne regulation. j
Mrs. Glen Danley and children of St-
Johns, are guests of the former's par
Pay Up Week.
The movement for a National Pay
Up Week to be observed February 21-26
is being heartily commended. The
American people will need a little
memory jogging' along this line. Too
many have the habit of laying bills one
side for a "more convenient season."
Not every one who lets his bills go
unpaid is indifferent about it. Many
people would gladly pay what all they
owe could they collect the debts due
them. A large percentage of the busi
ness failures are of people who would
be perfectly solvent if they could collect
their bills. But with some people, the
more easily they could pay the less
readily they do It.
It Is surprising how quickly a dollar
will run around a town. When tht
long standing bill due the merchant is
paid, he can Immediately satisfy the
mechanics he owes. The mechanics in
town can settle with the butcher. The
latter can pay the farmer. The farmer
then can call on the doctor. So it goes
the rounds.
The net result is a new feeling ot
confidence and good will. If a general
debt paying custom could be started
during Pay-Up Week a great many
people would feel a new courage about
their business future. They would buy
more freely. A wave of new business
would spread over the country. Let
everybody do what they can towards it.
Death of M. P. VanCamp.
Fenton, Feb. 15 Martin P. Van
Camp died Sunday evening at his home
in this place after a few weeks illness.
He became ill three weeks ago with an
attack of heart trouble and was recover
ing slowly when one week ago Sunday
he suffered a stroke of paralysis.
Mr. VanCamp was born in Oceola,
Feb. 20, 1841, and was the son of Mr.
and Mrs John Van Camp. His early
life was spent in Oceola and about 50
years ago he was married to Miss Emla
Coder. Fo! r several years they resided
on a farm n Hartland and nine years
ago came to Fenton to live. Besides
his wife he leaves one son, John Van
Camp, ot Owosso, deputy state- bank
examiner. He also lea yes two sisters,
Mrs. Katherine Cornell cf Reed City
and Mrs. Marcia Bradley of Indian
River. He was a member of Fenton F.
& A. M. lodge. The funeral was held
Wednesday morning at his Jate resi
dence and the remains were taken to
Parshallville for burial.
Both Mr. and Mrs. J. C. VanCamp
had been in Fenton a good portion of
the time recently assisting in the care
of Mr. VanCamp and attended the
funeral. The deceased had been a fre
quent visitor in Owosso and was quite
well known and respected here.
The meeting of the Child Life Chap-
t)r has been postponed for one week.
Mrs. James Oliver Curwood will
entertain friends Friday afternoon at
her home on Williams street.
The Rickman Construction Co. has
been awarded a contract to build a
$11,000 school house at Lansing.
The marriage of Miss Oa Norton and
Sidney Willett, both of this city, wll
be solemnized March 5.
In the case of Ira H. Whittemore vs.
Lewis Walter, Tuesday was set as the
day for settling the bill of exceptions in
the circuit court.
The Wangh class of the Asbury Sun
day school was pleasantly entertained
Monday evening at the home of C. C,
Kline in Bennington.
The mothers' meeting of the first
ward will be held Friday afternoon at
2 o'clock at the home of Mrs. C. 1'.
Matthews, 003 N. Water street. A
good attendance is desired.
Mrs. John Schaar and Mrs. George
Jenney, of Corunna, have been called
10 t nai Dy ine ver" serious illness or
ineir sister, iurs. inanes uoan, ar.,
formerly of Corunna. She is not ex
pected to recover.
The divorce case of Amanda vs. He
man Preston of Morrice, has been dis
continued. The defendant is a Civil
war veteran who spends part of his
time at the Soldiers' home in Grand
Rapids, and part at the residence of his
wife In Mcrrlce.
W. J. Melchers, L. L. Conn and E. O.
Dewey were in St. Johns. Wednesday ;
afternoon to attend a meeting of the
directors of the Union Telephone Co.
Hresident Babcock delightfully enter-
tained those present together with a
few St. Johns gentlemen at a six o'clock
dinner. !
The lady clerks of Osbnrn 6s Sons'
atore were pleasantly entertained at a
fl o'clock dinner Tnepdav evening b
Mrs. Slellft Bartrem in .honor of the
hostess anniversary. Three courses
were served to the eighteen guests. In
! Safety First.
The following article taken from Roy
K. Moulton'a column of the Grand Rap
Ids News is a very pointed illustration
or tne cauje of the great fire waste of
thia and other states
A Safety First Sermou that is goin g
the rounds:
WHO AM It
I am more powerful than the
blued armies of the world.
com
I am more deadly than bullet?, and I
have wrecked more homes than the
mightiest of siege guns.
I steal in the United States alone over
$300,000 000 each year.
I spare no one, and find my victims
among the rich and poor alike; the
young and old; the strong and the weak;
widows and orphans know me.
I uiasnucre thousands upon thousands
of wage-earners in a year.
I lurk in unseen places, and do most
of my work silently. Yon are warned
against me, but you heed not,
I am relentless. I am ever where; In
the home, on the street, in the factory,
at railroad crossings and on the sea.
I bring eickneaa. degradation and
death, and yet few seek to avoid me.
I destroy, crush and maim; I giye
nothing, but take all.
I am your worst enemy.
I AM CARELESSNESS.
Death of J. B. Kimmell.
John B. Kimmell, aged sixty years
died Wednesday morning at 9:30 at
his home at 627 Woodlawn avenue.
Mr. Kimmell had been in poor health
for some time and had failed rapidly
the past few days. The funeral will
be held Friday afternoon at 1:30 at
the home, Rev. E. W. Foster of the
Corunna Avenue M. E. church offici
ating. Interment will be made in
Oak Hill cemetery.
Mr. Kimmell was born in Hancock
county, Ohio, and came to Michigan
when he was fourteen. At the age
of twenty-six, he was united In mar
riage to Miss Ella Osman, who sur
vives him. The deceased lived in
Perry for twenty-five years, coming
to Owosso about four years ago. Be
s tf e s , Ih e . w 1 th a. Jollo-w I n g--. ae v en
children survive: Mrs. Frank Har
vey, Mrs. Floyd Harvey, Mrs. Albert
Schlaack and Fred, Louis, Frank and
Newell Kimmell all of this city.
Mrs S. S. Miner was hostess for the
Octo bridge club Wednesday.
Mrs. W. F. Gallagher is in Detroit
for a few days' visit with relatives.
Attorney N. R. Walsh was in Farm
iogton and Detroit on business, Wed
nesday. H. J. Davies left Tuesday evening ou
a business trip to Unicago, ill., and
Minneapolis, Minn.
Miss Louise Haupt will go to Crystal
Falls, Mont., this week to work during
the spring millinery season.
Joe Purvis has bought the Charles
Gree'nwald residence at 31? East Mason
street, and will move there soon.
Misses Libby Byrnes and Bessie Riley
entertained Wednesday evening at a
miscellaneous shower in honor of MIhs
Bertha Setzer whose marriage to Al
bert Diamond will take place Friday
at the home of the bride's mother,
North Water street.
A junior vesper service- will be held
at the Young Women's Christian Asso
ciation rooms, Sunday afternoon, Feb.
20, at four o'clock. This set vice Es
pecially for girls from 12 to IS yeats of
age. Mrs. B G. Mattson will spca
and there will be special music features.
The loseis in the recent Ladies' Aux
iliary to O of R. C. contest gave the
winners a banquet in the Woodman
hall, Tuesday evening. Places were ar
ranged for 20 and two courses were
served. The tables were prettily deco
rated with the organization's colore,
red, whHe and green. Smilax and llow
ers centered the tables and there wtre
favors and place cards. Short tails
were given after the banquet.
At the Woman's Congress, which
will be held in the Congregational
church next Satarday, Mrs. Frank Mc
Daunel will render a banjo solo, Misses
Lillian and Esther Vogel will sing a
duet, and the ladies' octette will render
a selection. Mrs. Allen Goodall will
give a reading and Mrs. George Fauth
will discuss Mrs. C. L. Barbour's paper
on home nursing. All laiies of
the
county and city are invited.
Mrs. Amy Good made complaint
against her husband William H. Good,
Wednesday morning and he was locked
up charged with non-support. Good
published a notice that he would not be
responsible for debts contracted by his
wife. The wife considered this a joke
without a point a) he had not even
furnished food and clothes for berand
their six year old child and she was
compelled td seek, employment lo get a
Federalization of the National Guard.
Washington. Feb. 15. The National
Guard has filed its answer to the charge
the t the militia cannot be federalized
and made a dependable factor In the
nation's program for defense. Thi by
the testimony of its representatives who
appeared before the committees of Con
gress, and even more effectively by the
preparation of a bill which presents
their recommendations in concrete form.
This bill was prepared at the request of
the Senate committee on military affairs
and has been submitted to Senator
Chamberlain. With Mr. Garrison and
hiscontinflntal army idea out of the
cabinet it is believed this bill will be
made the basis of legislation.
This legislation which is now proposed
by the executive committee of the 'Na
tional Guard association of the United
States Is something more than a mere
"pay bill." It is a complete militia
code and presents the most comprehen
sive plan which has as yet been offered
from any source for the training of the
citizenry of the country under the
volunteer system.
The provisions of the bill are likely to
commend it to popular favor. Tha
President and Chairman Hay of the
House committee on military affairs
have both declared themselves opposed
to the principle of compulsory military
service, and in this they no doubt re
flect the yiews of the mass of the
American people. Those who have been
closely observing developments at
Washington are now practically agreed
that the federalization of the militia
under an improved and uniform system
is the only plan likely to receive the
favorable consideration of Congress.
The bill offered by the representa
tives of the National Guard deals in de
tail with the four functions of federal
control recognized under the constitu
tion, viz: Organization, armament, dis
cipline, which includes training and
government. It is believed to provide
the means for overcoming all of the
objections which have been urged at
the War Department against the pre
sent military system, and includes- a ,
uniform method for the selection and
appointment of commissioned officers; a
standard of physical and professional
qualification for them, and a method
for eliminating the unfit; it fixes the
tenure of commissioned office and term
of enlistment; makes provision fur a
reserve system; specifies the quota of
troops to be furnished by each state
within a given number of years, and -
gives the President the right to draft
and organize the militia in any state
which may fail to raise a volunteer
force, if he deems it proper to do so.
The bill establishes a uniform system
of court martial for the National Guard
and makes that force subiect to the
articles of war; it denies to any state
the right to maintain troops other than
as organized under the proposed act, or
to disband any unit of the militia which
has been armed and equipped and en
joyed the benefits of federal support
except with the consent of the Presi
dent. The bill provides for the abolishment
of the national militia board, and would
create a militia section of the general
staff, to be appointed by the President
by and with the adyice and consent of
the Senate, to be composed of National
Guard officers whose duty it shall be to
recommend to the Secretary of War
policies for the improvement and de
velopement of the National Guard.
More extended periods of field training
and more than double the requirements
of existing law as to indoor or armory
instruction is called for.
MRK FOOTE.
Congressman Fordney is of the be
lief that some provision should be
inserted in the proposed bill to assist in
meeting the expense of maintaining all
State armories and will propose such a
plan to the proper committee. x
The Y. M. C. A. member bad an un
usually pleasant evening Tuesday at an
"1800"' party. Old time games and
custouies furnished amusement and a
delicious lunch was served.
The children of the late Mr. and Mrs.
Ebeu P. Bliss, deceased, late of Rush,
were in the probate court, Monday,
arranging for the partition of the prop
erty. The heirs present were, Arthur,
Jesse and Eben Bliss of Rush, and
Lemuel BH9 of Oakley. Two other
sons, Asa of North Dakota, and Elmer
of Montana, were not in court.
Supervisor Floyd Durham of Durand,
appeared in the probate court Tuesday
aod applied for the admission of Miss
Ethel Davis of Darand, to the psycho
puthic ward at the .University hospital
at Ann Arbor. The girl, who is with
put means and whose father ts dead,
hxk been in the hospital for sprue time
lot illness and it has beeu recommend-
, .r-.tr M-i..r..-MMI.I - .11 I '' " 1 , , I - ...
