H
.flr H 7 B .IB U H B lH
f A bH ( , -
V P .fl. -fli- tfiMHBflh flHfe.tt gdi BRafe A' A V ifl ...flaw 1 H ! flHHM HHH
B B B B B B B B BbBb B B fl B LB B HiA, I BF 1
Bt 1 fl B 11 B B I tKE fl B H lk H' b r 1 1 B ar B
a B B B B B A B Bi B B fl 1 B h L BL B n fl w 1
M
I Vol.26 8ALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 12, 1916 No 9 B
, I..,
! An Independent Paper Published Under
I :: the Management of J. T. Goodwin ::
-i
EDITORIALS B Y JUDGE C. C. GOOD WIN
The Great Anniversary
TODAY is the anniversary of the birth of Abra
lmm Lincoln.
We call it the great anniversary because the
life of Lincoln was a notice, served upon the
youth of the United States that there is a no
bility of mankind which does not depend upon
fortune, birth, education, or any of the usual
means which help him to gain name and station,
but which despite all the means on which ordi
nary men rely for preference, could still assert
itself and make the world stand abashed in its
august presence. Lincoln had three overmaster
ing qualities. He had the foremost brain of his
age; he had a heart big enough to take in all
suffering humanity; he had an integrity that was
incorporated into the very fiber of his life. Said
Douglas: "He was the honestest man I ever
saw."
One of the most brilliant men who ever came
to the west coast was Senator James Y. Mc
Dougal. He went to California from Illinois,
where he had known Lincoln for years.
One day in Sacramento a discussion arose
among the members of the bar of that city con
cerning what seemed to them a wonderfully logi
cal speech that had been delivered that day in the
court house. Finally McDougal said: "I heard it; it
was a good speech, but if you want to read the
most logical speech I ever read, go to the state
library in the capitol, turn to page of the
volume of the Congressional Globe and read the
speech there, delivered by Abe Lincoln of Illin
ois." And who is Abe Lincoln? was asked him
to which he answered: "He is a country lawyer
in Illinois. He would be about six feet three, if
he would straighten up, raw boned, jolly, story
telling careless man, with the homeliest, saddest
I face you ever looked in, but he knows more than
' fa anybody. He never had more than a smattering of
elementary education, but he did not need it, he
was born with more sense than all of us can
I over acquire."
Jim Green, a great St. Louis lawyer, and a
pronounced Southerner went over to Illinois to
hear the Douglas-Lincoln debate at Freoport. Re
turning to St. Louis his friends gathered around
him and one said: "The little giant is getting
away with the railsplitter easy enough, is he
not?" To which Green replied: "No, he is not,
nobody can. All you can do is to say you'll be
d d if you stand it."
. General Carl Schurz returned from Chancel-
lorsville and was imprudent enough to write Mr.
Lincoln a letter criticising his conduct of the war,
Lincoln replied to it and that finished General
Schurz until the end of the war.
' Seward, as secretary of state, thought to con-
' trol the course of the administration.
At a most critical time when we were in im-
f
1,
minent danger of a war with Great Britain and
France, Seward wrote to the British premier and
incidentally mentioned what he had done, "Let me
see the letter please?" said Lincoln. It was
given him. He sat down, read the letter, ex
punged here a word and there a line, added here
a word and there a line, then pushed it over to
Seward and said: "Have it copied that way and
send it." Seward read it through and then was
great enough to say: "Mr. President, as correct
ed, that is a most able state paper." Horace
Greely, in his Tribune had more than once crit
icised the administration sharply. Greely was
a most gifted man, his paper had grown so great
that he believed it should influence the nation's
course, but Greely never had level judgment.
When the Gettysburg cemetery was to be
dedicated, one of the foremost orators of all the
world was called to make the address. He spoke
two hours. Mr. Lincoln followed him. His
speech lasted only six minutes. They were both
published in the Tribune next morning and speak
ing of them Mr. Greely wrote: "Who will say that
there was not more in the six minutes than in
the two hours' speech?"
But at that time Mr. Lincoln's work was near
ly finished, and the invisable wireless must even
then have begun to bring him messages from that
station in the stars where the deeds of men are
passed upon. Another great address came when
the last inaugural of the much-tried man was de
livered. It was radiant with divine flashes.
A little later came the end and when his soul
fled, through the ether men saw how white it
was and bowed before it.
London Punch had been deriding Mr. Lincoln
every week for four years, deriding him in bitter
est and most scornful words and embellishing its
pages with contemptuous caricatures. The editor
of Punch must have caught a glimpse of the radi
ance of that soul for in its next issue Punch, fig
uratively, fairly went upon its knees in confession
of its guilt and in cries for pardon.
Some people say the manner of his taking off
added to Mr. Lincoln's fame. That is not true.
It drew immediate and universal attention to him,
but had it been different as men would have
read the story of his life the final verdict would
have been, as it now is, that the life he lived fin
ally revealed perhaps the most wonderful char
acter the world ever produced, leaving the most
majestic memory of all the ages.
Our New Responsibilities
IN one of his middle west state speeches last
week President Wilson said in substance that
our nation had suddenly been thrust to the fore
front of the nations in the conduct of the world's
business. If this is true how are we meeting the
new and fearful responsibilities that have been
thrust upon us?
Which of the outside nations has withdrawn
its bank account from abroad and obtained a
check book with which to open an account with
us? It is said that Great Britain has been doing
a wonderful business, especially with Latin
America ever since the war opened. What have
wo done with any of them except to warn all
Americans and other foreigners to get out of Mex- H
ico because we can no longer protect them? Aro B
Brazil and Argentine looking to us for supplies or 2
for a market for their rubber, sugar, coffee and B
other products which ey desire to export? Tho B
report is that the Wyoming Indians are selling B
their ponies to tho agents of the allies and buying IB
automobiles with the money. Now there is some ll
style about that. Can our government boast of B
an advance comparable with that which has come B
through the war? H
Is the flag of the United States a familiar spec- B
tacle in any foreign port in the world? How aro fl
we meeting this new, august, and auspicious re- B
sponsibility that has been thrust upon us? H
At home we can neither protect our little jfl
farmers down on the Rio Grande, nor avenge B
their murders when they are killed. Abroad, all fl
we are sending away by our own conveyances is lfl
the lamentable cry that Boston and the Charles- B
ton navy yard are in imminent danger of being B
bombarded from sixteen miles out at sea by the fl
entire British navy, massed for that purpose. fl
Even as the old histories told how when the fl
Bunker Hill fight was on, a British sloop of war fl
wore around and raked the flimsy redoubt from fl
end to end, so we are said to be helpless to pre- jfl
vent the invasion of Massachusetts. How are we fl
meeting our great new responsibilities? fl
Our Navy M
SECRETARY DANIELS is reported as having H
said that the navy was never before so well H
officered and manned as at present. That is com- H
forting. One instinctively thinks of Paul Jones, fl
Hull, Lawrence, Bainbridge, Perry, Porter, Preb- H
ble, Ducater, Farragut, Winslow, Craven, Jouet, H
Jenkins, Dewey, Chaderick, Coghlan, Samson,- H
Schley, Clarke, Taylor, Evans, and the others, and jB
of that wild Irish gunner on the Olympic, who M
asked what the matter was when the fight lulled H
on that hot morning in Manila Bay, and when told B
that it was for breakfast cried out "To hell with B
breakfast, let us finish this job." B
It gives us an assurance that after our navy M
shall have been destroyed, and our Atlantic coast H
cities are all captured and looted, those engaged B
in that performance will know that they have jH
had some real exercise. B
Further, it brings to mind the fact that all H
foreign governments know the traditions of our B
navy as well as we do and have a wholesome re- B
spect for those floating forts that are keeping H
watch over our exposed coasts, and should the B
time ever come for them to awaken their thund- H
ers, there would be something doing so sure as H
the world. B
Their numbers should be steadily increased, so H
should be the numbers of those little assassins
called submarines and premiums should be offered M
for more effective air craft tho navy of the M
clouds. There should be no excitement, no hys-
teria about it but just steady work for there is B
no probability, hardly, a possibility, of any power
that has a navy attacking us, for years to come. B
In the meantime the Hague Tribunal should be
kept in session, for the present war has demon-
