The intelligent, common sense
workingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—Gom­
pers.
VOL., 23 NO. 26
Senate
Opposition Of
pointment Really Bas*.
"V-
His Virtues.
FEAR GREAT LAWYER
IS FAR TOO HONEST
Senator Knute Nelson of Minne­
sota Is One of His Most
Bitter Opponents.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 10.—The
charges against Louis D. Brandies, on
which the special privilege senators
rely to oppose his confirmation as
justice of the supreme court, are
learned on good authority to be sub­
stantially these:
1. That Brandies has spoken dis
respectfully of constitutions and flip
pantly of the mental attitude of the I
courts.
2. That he has been on both sides
of the shoe machinery trust, first as
counsel for the trust and then in op
position to it.
3. That he lost the public's case
against increased freight rates be
fore the interstate commerce com
mission by admitting that the rail
roads needed more revenues.
4. That he did something in the
famous Ballinger-Pinchot investiga
tion which members of the senate will
try to characterize as "unprofessional
conduct."
Fear Virtues, Not Faults.
The basis of the first charge is
Brandies' public statements that
many courts do not view modern
economic problems in a contempor­
aneous way that they are benighted
and uninformed as to industrial con­
ditions, and that the constitutions are
made to serve and not to bind a
people. To 90 per cent of the people
this attitude is one of the strongest
reasons why Brandies ought to go
on the court.
The second charge amounts to this:
That Brandies is honest. Finding
that the shoe machinery trust was a
menace to the public, he resigned as
its counsel and afterward did not
hesitate to denounce its monopolistic
practices.
The charge that he lost the case
against increased freight rates rests
on a.personal.feud between Brandeis
and Clifford Thome. Brandeis dis­
agreed with Thome in the last rate
-"case and agreed that the railroads
needed more revenue, but lie said they
ought to get it in some other way
than by taxing the people in addi­
tional rates. This is an insincere
charge.
Exposed President Taft.
The fourth charge is instigated by
Senator Knute Nelson, who was chair­
man of the joint committee which in­
vestigated the Ballinger matter. Nel­
son early demonstrated his bias in
favor of Ballinger. The great offense
of which Brandeis is guilty in Nelson's
-eye was the exposure of the fact that
President Taft had not told the truth
when he said that he (Taft) had per­
sonally considered and passed upon
all the evidence and had himself writ­
ten the letter of exoneration of Sec­
retary Ballinger.
The fact/3, as they finally were
brought to light, showed that the Bal­
linger exoneration, which appeared
over Taft's signature, had, in fact,
been largely dictated by Oscar Law
ler, Ballinger's subordinate, in Secre­
tary Ballinger's private office, and had
been gone over by Ballinger himself
before Taft saw it.
The document was known in the
case as the "Lawler memorandum."
Frantic efforts were made by Ballin­
ger and his friends to prevent its in­
troduction into the hearing. In re­
sponse to calls made by Brandeis for
it, officials of the department denied
in writing that any such document ex­
isted.
Brandeis Proved Case.
Finally, the stenographer who took
Continued on Page 2.
By ALEXANDER FRAZER.
A fear has arisen in the minds of
many people that the present war will
deplete the vitality of the various na­
tions engaged in it because only the
healthy men are chosen to do .the
fighting, while the physically unfit are
thus "selected" to propogate the spe­
cies. Here we have a specimen of
those popular fallacies which take pos­
session of the human mind because
they obtain the sanction of plausibil­
ity, but have no basis in fact. For
quite a time the inverse argument
held good, namely, that war supplied
an excellent method for the disposal of
our tramps.
FoUy of ShaUow Thought.
Little as our experience with war
has been, it was sufficient to put the
quietus upon that contention in point
of fact, the many delusions to which
the unsophisticated mind becomes
subject and to which it will adhere
with dogged tenacity can be traced
to just this superficial mode of think­
ing. A very little analysis would suf­
fice to dispel many of the miscon­
ceptions by which we are enslaved, but
are too indolent to put forth the effort
necessary to overcome that mental in
ertia which blocks our way to an un­
derstanding of even the most simple
and self-evident propositions.
If we accept the premise that war.
I
Washington Correspondent De­
clares He Has Chance to Be­
come Immortal.
OPPORTUNITY TO
4
SAVE SUPREME COURT
Can Prevent It From Becoming
Auction Block of American
Office Brokerage.
In the capitol in Washington there
sits a man who seems merely to be oc­
cupying a seat on tlie supreme bench
of the United States or studying the
law of certain great cases which he is
to assist in deciding, or writing opin­
ions in cases which have been decided,
writes Herbert Quick.
As a matter of fact, however, he has
been taken up the mountain and of­
fered the greatest kingdom on earth,
if he will only fall down and worship
the satan of political ambition.
Man on Trial.
The man is Justice Charles E.
Hughes—a man on trial. On trial in
the court of conscience before the su­
preme tribunal of posterity.
A great political party seeking
power believes that it could win it if
Hughes would only take the nomina­
tion for President. He is under con­
stant solicitation, if not under con­
stant temptation, to accept the offer
and allow his name to be used.
These solicitations—if not these
temptations—will continue and grow
stronger and stronger until the Re­
publican national convention has met,
and probably will culminate in the
greatest crisis in the life of Mr.
Huglles after the convention is ac­
tually in session.
Won't Defile Supreme Court.
Well, say the unthinking, why
should he not accept the nomination
if it is offered him?
Because that by so doing lie will
transform the supreme court from
what it is and always has been into a
rostrum from which its members may
electioneer for presidency.
We have found many faults with
the supreme court, but we have never
had any reason to suspect that its
members have sought favor of powers
influential in politics in the hope of
political promotion.
If Hughes accepts this nomination
he will thereby change that court ah-
Continued on Page
UWSMlEP
President Kansas Bar Association
Tells Lawyers to Keep Up
to-Date.
TOPEKA, Kan., Feb. 10.—In his
opening address to the Kansas Bar
association, President Kagey said:
"The administration of law has failed
to keep step with the onward march
of science and civics and have clung to
tradition and precedent until it has
come to look with suspicion and even
disfavor on any innovation, however
wholesome, economical or expeditions.
And this applies with equal force to
criminal as well as to civil procedure."
President Kagey made this declara­
tion in connection with his demand
for public defenders. He said this
theory is gaining ground and that it
is correct, from a moral standpoint,
as the state owes it to the poor, who
are unable to employ counsel, to pro­
vide a competent public defender, to
pay him for his services, to give him
the same inquisitorial and other
powers as the prosecutor, and, in ad­
dition to this, the state should pro­
vide pay for witnesses for the defense
in all criminal cases.
WILL PRESENT WAR DEPLETE VITALITY OF
saps the vitality of a nation and carry
it to tis logical conclusion, war« means
the progressive deterioration ,of the
race, and this ought to constitute a
sufficient deterrent to our engaging in
aU wars. But war is not deterred be­
cause of logical deductions any more
than it is guided by moral precepts.
From the moment that we engage in
the conflict our ethical concepts be­
come subordinated to abysmal forces.
Religious dogma is distorted and per­
verted and becomes the pliant tool of
the gods of war. Reason is dethroned
when a man reaches the stage where
he can plunge a bayonet into the quiv­
ering flesh of a fellow-being, see the
red blood rush forth and the life ebb
awayfl. He becomes a prey to those
dormant elemental passions which be­
tray the beast and leave behind an
imperishable imprint:
Woman's Great Part.
It seems remarkable that when we
discuss this question of the preserva­
tion of the race we entirely overlook
one factor, and by all odds the most
important, namely, the part played by
woman. Necessary as the function
may be which man performs, he con­
tributes very little to the propagation
of the species. How strange that We
should ignore the glaring fact that all
out- heredity, tendencies are trans­
mitted thrbugh the'woman. All the
The ordinance authorizing the sale of the old armory
building and property to the Shriners is going to the
people. There is nothing 4hat can stop it but the courts,
and we have every reason to believe they will uphold the
petitions of more than 10 per cent of the qualified elec­
tors who have asked that the people be permitted to
say whether or not their property shall be sold.
City Attorney Samuelson has ruled that the words
"qualified electors" in the city charter mean the same as
"qualified registered electors." He has held that no per­
son can legally sign a referendum petition unless he re­
gistered at the last municipal election.
City Clerk Borgen made a hurried check of the pe­
titions filed with him last Friday afternoon without
verifying whether or not petitioners who had moved
from the address at which they were registered to their
present address. He found a few more than 400 not re­
gistered in the districts in which they now claim legal
residence. He then assumed that the petition was insuf­
ficient and he forthwith notified the person who filed
the petition with him to that effect. The notification
was mailed Saturday afternoon, but was not received
until Monday morning. There was therefore as a result
of this method of notification a loss of two days time of
the 10 days permitted to make up the alleged deficiency.
This strange haste is characteristic of the commit
slop's attitude in all its dealings on the armory proposi­
tion. The ordinance was introduced and passed in one
week without giving the opponents of the sale an op­
portunity to be heard. The city attorney's opinion wa,s
rendered in a few minutes. The city clerk was urged
to hurry with his. check of the petition, and the cards
were pretty well stacked to head off a referendum elec­
tion.
A well known lawyer said to a friend Monday:
"There are forces in Duluth who will see to it that no
referendum election will be held." Developments since
then indicate that this lawyer had a pretty good tip.
"But the best laid plans of mice and men gang aft*
aglee." We will learn in due time something more about
these "forces."
It is said that the Shriners are paying a good price
for the armory. One commissioner declared to us dur­
ing the week that the building was worth only $2,000,
and the land $25,000. That is the total value amounts
to about $27,000. They would lead us to believe that
the Shriners were being soaked for $23,000 on their
bargain.
But the Shriners, it seems, are willing to be "soaked.''
^5^ ?ttwrney potentate has threatened to go into
court and force the commissioners to close the deal, so
anxious are they to contribute to the city $23,000 over
and above the true value of the armory building and
property. And it is this sort of argument and conduct
I
Operators Begin Campaign to Op­
pose Demands of United
Mine Workers.
NEW YORK, Feb. 10.—The anthra­
cite coal operators will fight the de­
mand of the anthracite mine workers
for an increase in wages. This was
decided by a unanimous vote of the
operators.
The United Mine Workers of Amer­
ica ask for a 20 per cent increase in
wages, recognition of the union, an
eight-hour day, a working agreement
for two years and changes in the
method of fixing wages.
The operators begin their fight with
a series of four-column advertise­
ments in all the leading daily papers
of the country.
Appeal for Sympathy.
In this advertisement an appeal is
made for public sympathy and the
powerful anthracite trust whose prof­
accumulations of the past, which
either advance or retard us in our
progress to a higher plane, are nur­
tured in the womb of the woman and
carried forward by her. The only
function which the male performs is
the act of impregnation by which the
seed is fertilized and from that time
on he is, from a biological point of
view, as good as non-existent. The
father may die in the trenches, but the
child will come into being almost be­
yond peradventure. The important
role here played by a woman would be
accorded its true value were it not
that we are so obsessed with a sense
of our own superiority that we are as
blind as moles to the most palpable
facts.
Man's False Position.
One of the objections urged against
woman suffrage was that the woman
should be debarred from exercising
the franchise because she does not
take her part in the fight on the field
of battle.' This appeared to be a
clincher. In View of the foregoing,
try to imagine under what a different
aspect we should be obliged to view
the matter if we reversed the process
and sent the women into the trenches
instead of the men. The complexion
of the case would then undergo a
change so complete that we might well
consider whether war were .not a fac­
SHRINERS SEEM MORE, THAN WILLING TO
BE "SOAKED" FOR 01D ARMORY PROPERTY
m*J|
ip
its have been the wonder of many in­
vestigating committees, complain that
"mining, although conducted by the
most scientific methods, yields an ex­
ceedingly small return upon the capi­
tal invested."
The operators wish to retain the
present method of settling disputes by
means of the conciliation board that
was forced upon the miners by the
Roosevelt "settlement" of the great
anthracite strike 13 years ago. The
miners claim that this board is so con­
trolled that it is impossible for the
men to secure any concessions.
DRESSMAKERS GIVE
BOSSES HARD BATTLE
NEW YORK, Feb. 10.—Several
thousand children's dressmakers, af­
filiated with the International Ladies'
Garmen Workers' union, are on strike
because employers refuse to arbitrate
the following demands: Wages for
cutting, $22 a week men pressers,
$18 women pressers, $15 minimum
of SO cents an hour sanitary condi­
tions 49-hour week and shop chair­
man and price committees in all
shops.
The pickets are wearing a white
card with these instructions: "Don't
argue with an officer. Try by peace­
ful means to persuade all workers to
join your ranks. Avoid disputes."
tor in the deterioration of the race.
Thus, it follows that, where reason
fails, instinct steps in to keep the
women out aof the trenches. For un­
mitigated, undilated stupidity, the
antis carry the palm.
Any nation .that is long engaged in
warfare must in the end succumb to
moral degeneracy, unless the conflict
be waged for a noble cause, and who
is to be the judge of that? Even then
the original objective may be lost
sight of, if the struggle become a pro­
tracted one.
Experience of the Past.
But what proof is there that war has
a tendency to lower the standard of
vitality of nation? Of Sparta the
contrary was true, and even the de­
cline of Rome could not be cited as a
case in point. Where is the evidence
to show, for instance, that "Napoleon
lopped a cubit off the statute of the
Frenchman?" This is but a sample of
those glib sayings which' pass from
mouth to mouth without question and
paralyze any incentive to discover the
real explanation* At the time of the
Boer war, England was obliged to
lower the standard in order to secure
a sufficient .number of Soldiers of the
required height. If the jacts could be
ascertained, we should find beyond a
doubt that this condition is duplicated
every European country.: This
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC BfBFORM £NP POLITICAL PROGRESS.
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, FEBRUARY 12,1916. TWO CENTS.
|hat is awakening the people to the fact that there is
Something unusually strange behind the whole proceed­
ings.
I
In the meantime the signing of new petitions goes
merrily on. Citizens are volunteering their services to
Circulate them, and many voters are going out of their
ay to find petitions to sign.
The referendum itself is as much an issue as is the
tie of the armory The city attorney, who is a most
comodating legal adviser to the commissioners, has
put such a strict construction on the language of the
charter provisions relating to the initiative and refer­
endum that if his opinions are upheld there will be no
cbance in the future for other than big interests to use
instruments. He has practically outlawed the
people.
About the only saving democratic features of com­
mission government are the initiative and referendum.
Tfipe them out or even put stringent limitations on their
u|e, and commission gbvernment surrenders its right to
a|
place among American institutions. Such a govern
m(ent without an easy workable initiative' and referen­
dum does not belong to the United States its proper
ajode is in Russia or Turkey.
I There never was the remotest chance for a commis­
sion government charter to be adopted in Duluth with­
out the assurance that it contained a simple and work­
able initiative, referendum and recall chapter. The gov­
ernment itself is autocratic in its structure and its ten­
dencies. The only excuse for adopting it was that it
presented greater possibilities for promoting
afc£ economy in transacting public business than did
the old form of government. It is only the initiative,
referendum and recall that can keep this kind of gov
ernment clost to the people.
•)Yhen the people voted to entrust their affairs and
their local rights to fiv6 men instead of many men as
formerly^ they reserved unto themselves the power to.
initiate ordinances upon which, their commissioners
might refuse to act to veto such ordinances as dis­
pleased them, or to recall such officers who failed to
properly serve them. They can do this for any reason
otf^or no reason. It is their right, for it is still their
government.
,^|f 10 per cent of the people want the referendum,—
tomote a familiar phrase of the Herald's—that's their
busfiiess. Mayor Prince only received 3,000 votes to
getVftis office and he has only one-fifth say in the .city
commission. Surely half as many voters ought to be
entitled to at least one-tenth say about whether or not
the| title to a piece of the people's property should re-
th©
ci$p decide the question they simply put the people's
veto machinery in motion. That is all there is to it.
The proposed referendum election will not cost the
city any money. It can only delay or stop the sale of the
armory. Why fear the people?
efficiency
name of the city. One-tenttt of the voters
FOR LITEM TEST
Congressman Burnett Declares
Plan Would Prevent Deplor­
able Labor Conditions.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 10.—Adoption
of the literacy test for immigrants will
in normal times keep out each year
more than 200,000 foreigners. Chair­
man Burnett of the house immigra­
tion committee said in the majority
report on the Burnett immigration bill
filed last week.
The report scores the "gross lawless­
ness" of transportation companies in
making up for the slump in immigra­
tion since the war began by bringing
over defectives and other foreigners
unfit to pass the present immigration
standards.
In the last year more than 20,000 de­
fectives were deported. Heavier fines
imposed by the bill are expected to
keep steamship companies within the
law.
downward tendency cannot be ascribed
to war as far as England is con­
cerned, because she had not been en­
gaged in any war of large proportions
for more than a century.
The point upon Which I wish to lay
emphasis is, that there is an actual
and steady physical deterioration go­
ing on, bpt this Is altogether outside
of the agency of war. Slowly and im­
perceptibly it is doing its work with
all the fatality of a blind impulse. It
is only after a long period of time
that we are able to perceive las effect.
Saps Away Our Strength.
When any section of the population
becomes dwarfed and stunted, the
cause must be found in some agency
more subtle than war. The inroads
must be so continuous and conspicuous
as to become solidified as a part of
our social existence.
Clearly, then, this effect must find
its source in the external basis of life.
Leaving the present war out of con­
sideration, the larger portion of the
British- army heretofore has been re­
cruited from the poorest social
stratum. Tommy Atkins is not held
in the highest esteem, despite the lit­
erary contortions of Kipling, and the
reason is not far to seek. The army
to him is the last stand, just as the
pqorhouse is to the poor. For a long
period of time this element the
ki&J:
Frightful Toll of Human Life
Declared by Walsh to Be
Unnecessary.
KILLS AND INJURES
5,000,000 ANNUALLY
Preventable Mortality Greater
Here Than On Europe's Field
Of Slaughter.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 10.—Charging
that preventable industrial mortality
in the United States each year is
greater than the combined toll of the
war, the committee on industrial re­
lations issued an appeal to the public
to help it create better living condi­
tions in the working districts of the
country. The chairman of the com­
mittee is Frank P. Walsh, former
head of the federal commission on
industrial relations,
The committee asserts that 250,000
men women and children are killed
in industries each year, while 4,700,
000 are wounded. It also declares
that 500,000 children die anniially in
the congested working districts of the
country, 100,000 of whom are killed
by poverty before they reach their
first birthday.
Half of Deaths Preventable.
Surgeon General Rupert Blue of the
public health service is quoted by the
committee to the effect that 50 per
cent of these deaths. could be pre­
vented. Surgeon General Gorgas of
the army, the man who cleaned up
Panama, in commenting upon its
statement, said:
"The preventable mortality iii this
country is greater than the mortality
caused by the European war. Science
knows that the chief cause, of disease
is poverty that disease can never be
eliminated so long as people are com­
pelled to live poorly and close to­
gether."
Following are portions of the appeal
indicting the industrial centers of the
country:
The
Babies Survive in Rich Districts.
Vln Brookline, Mass., live the well
to-do and the rich of Boston. Babies
die in Brookline at the rate of 76 per
1,000. In South Bethlehem, where
live the steel workers, whose brawn
and brain produce the wealth that has
glutted Wall street banks and the
coffers-of Broadway wine., merchants,
babies die at the rate of 233 per
1,000. •. ...
bemojtefli
by th&work'
terest of the workers,
be dominated by the
E
To Take Longer Step Than Min­
nesota Provides for State
Insurance.
LOUISVILLE, Ky.. Feb, 12.—A
commission has finally agreed on a
proposed workmen's compensation
act and
will
submit it to the state
legislature, now in session. An elec­
tive system of compensation is pro­
vided for, and employers may carry
stock-company insurance, carry
their own risk upon proof of solv­
ency,
or insure in a state) mutual
similar to the. Massachusetts and
Texas plans. The maximum weekly
benefit to be paid injured workers
is placed at $12, and the maximum
for death or total disability is $4,000.
The last legislature passed a com­
pensation act, but this was declared
illegal by Judge Dorsey on the
ground that the state constitution
prohibits a limit being placed on the
amount of damages to be paid in caise
of death. Advocates of compensation
held that this made it impossible for
any relief under the preseht constitu­
tion, and the court of appeals modi­
fied Judge Dorsey's opinion.
population suffered with a hopeless
resignation from the extremes of
want. Century upon century has piled
up its encrustations of "hunger, pov­
erty and dirt." We can only account
for their survival by the marvelous re­
cuperative and sustaining power of
the human body. The application of
the laws of biological development to
the improvement of the human species
possesses an important educational
value, but, until our social organiza­
tion reaches the point where the
preservation and progress of the race
become the paramount issue, it is
hopeless to look for a marked or
permanent change.
Are We Free From This Virus?
One naturally asks the question: Are
we of the United States free from this
virus which eats its way to the human
vitals? We are obliged to confess that
the same evil is stealthily finding its
W»y to our midst. Here we are con­
fronted with a strange contradiction.
A new country, with boundless, re­
sources, much of which is still un­
tapped, yet every year we hear, the
cry. of the children for bread. fQur
school tea,chers in some sections of
Greater New York could supply abun­
dant testimony to the deplorable fact'
that many of the children go to school
in such a condition thatthey are phys
conducted
Pin the lri
It" will not
so-called in
tellectaals or butters-in.—Gompers.
KOF
1i
Fqur Months' Struggle Gains In­
creased Wages and Im
proved Conditions.
GOV. W. P. HUNT HERO
OF BITTER CONTEST
Hated By Mine Owners, He
Stands Pat and Forces
Them to Settle.
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 10.—A ma­
terial increase in wages, improved1
working conditions, with no discrim-,
ination against the union, are pro-i
vided in the agreement which termin-1
ated the strike of the copper miners'
of the Cilton-Morenci. district, in Ari-,
zona, according to a statement issued
by Charles Tanner, general organizer1
for the Western Federation of Miners,
who has been in San Francisco for
some time raising funds for the*
miners and their families.
Tanner says that the men have re-,
turned to work at an increase In wage*
of from $1 to $1.50 per day, improved'
working conditions and witli the as­
surance of the employers that they
will not discriminate against union
men when employing miners.
Tanner say that the agreement!
reached, while not all that the miners
would have, liked, it is a big victor#:'
for the union and is the best that'
could be hoped for under the cir­
cumstances.
Not a Single Arrest Made.
Perhaps the most remarkable mine
strike in recent labor history was the'
Arizona trouble just ended, as reported
in the above dispatch. For four,
months an entire mining community
was on strike, and not a single arrest
was made. Though the people were!
actually in dire want, many of them
starving, there was no disorder.
Gov. George W. P. Hunt of Ari-i
zona, probably incurred the undying
hatred of the mining interests of hia.
state by his behavior In the strike. Re-1
membering Colorado, Michigan and I
West Virginia, Governor Hunt issued
a. proclamation advising the nation of
the miners? distress, promising the®!
imtnunity froth the attacks of gunmen
1
and hired strikebreakers.
The, miners of the Clifton andMo-
renci districts were unorganized and!
the victims of dozens of abuses and
poor wages. Federal Investigators
found that the companies were rob
•bing their men of their full pay that
the men were cheated out of part off
their weights that Mexicans in the
shafts were discriminated against, and
that many other abuses existed.
When the miners struck in spontar
neous revolt the mine owners fled on
a train, leaving the towns in posses­
sion of the strikers, at the same time
attempting to inflame the public mind
against them by vivid portrayals of
depredations and violence. They ap- I
pealed to Governor Hunt to send thei
militia into the struck regions todrive
the strikers back to work. 1
Governor Bans Scabs.
But Governor Hunt wasn't that kind
of a man. Instead, he sent an agent
into Clifton to investigate, learned the
truth, and, by judicious use of the
state militia, kept the strikebreakers
out of the trouble zone. Militia
deputy sheriffs kept order, distributed
food and helped maintain order.
Federal mediation, instigated by
Governor Hunt failed, because the
mine operators refused to compromise.
Because the governor had recognized
the professional strikebreaker as a!
menace to the community and had
used the authority of the state to keep
order, attempts were made to have
him unseated, and petitions for his re
call were circulated. They failed, be­
cause Hunt, by his fair methods, had
won the ready sympathy of the people.
cation which our public school system
supplies.
What is being done to ameliorate
these conditions? So far as can be
observed, practically nothing. In his
tirade against race suicide Theodore
Roosevelt displays a wonderful solici­
tude for the children yet unborn, but,
as a practical statesman, he formu­
lates no plan for the conservation of
the life which we have already with
us. The fact that thousands of chil
dfen are starving before our eyes
passes without command, and what ia
true of New York is true in varying
proportions of every large American
city.
America's Great Problem.
We are familiar with the usual
stereotyped objections urged against
the feeding of the children, namely,
that it is paternalistic, degrading, de
structive of Initiative and so on ad
nauseam but we may be sure that a"
phenomenon so universal in extent is
social in Character and can only be
adequately dealt with by society it~_
self. .. y'
"Facta are chisels that winna ding.**
For-the: preseht we may flatter our*',
selves that we are immune,. but It is
beyond controversy that we shall
finally be obliged to grapple wftb the"
in such a condition thatthey are phys- problem of the physic&l deterioratidfe.
ically incapable of abftprblng the edu^f therace, .Tv
Vt
-di a TV-
1
•J
