HAILS
Frw Ca Fram
r
rrC?W
I Sierra, Feb. 14.
c
."or tan Franelaca:
I Chlyo Marn. Feb. 15.
From Vancouver:.
Vakvra, Feb. 2S.
1
ror Vancouver?
Klarara, March 3.
Evening Bulletin. Eat 1882, No. 6396
Hawaiian Star, VoL XXIII. No. 7437
24 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 191624 PAGES
PRICE FIVE CENTO
nnrTn
rfT? K?
SGARE
SIB
ganab
mm
CE IOHED OUT
; liJ QUICK OBDER
House Plans to Pass Kitchin's
' ; Repeat Bill Six Days After
Introduction, Which is to Be
X Next Mongay. r '
DISGRUNTLEMENT AMONG
. DEMOCRATS IS POSSIBLE
r Louisiana Growers Want Re
' peal Made Permanent While
; Other Bourbons Apprehend
Political Boomerang
- V (Spatial Sta-BUatin Cabla
r WASHINGTON, O. C Feb 1-
Representative Claude Kltchln, chair
man it tha Houaa Committee on
.Ways and Means, will Introduce next
' Monday the Democratic auger icgiwa
tion In the form of a bill revoking the
Dlaclna f euoar.on the "free list" on
: Miv 1. ae waa ' provided In the
Underwood-Slmmona tariff bill.
I It Is Intended to take the final vote
I In the houie on this on Saturday, Feb-
risary . ine sugar iegiiun
stands alone. .
C S. ALBERT.
V Supplementing Mr. Alberta cable-;
tram today la the following corre-
, ' spondence on the Washington- situa
tion as' It looked it tie Beginning oi
Tebruary: ' -,r ;"
WABHINGTON. D. C, Feb. 1.
1 Sugar will take the center of the leg-
-Islatlve stage two weeks hence, ac-
cording to plans carefully worked out
ty the Democratic leaders.- It will
'"come - along la the form of a brief
measure; repealing ttyat feature of. the
Undenrood-Simmons. tariff act. which
' "places rarar on the free lt beginning
AMsy 1, lElff. K ia desired thatcon-
'j terr.rUtti action shall stand alone
and t;ot be coupled with extensloha of J
the centum ptloa .tax, or anj' other
matters' slated to come before Con-rgfr--'
' -'-'i tx-j"?tat session
.l'-ers . have.: been
: : i -.-rdlag the' best
acre'.
Etethcl cr txtc-iirg the one-cent per
" ptun3 duty ca refined sugar after
May 1. , Their original Idea waa to
. postpone ' the entire matter until
March 15 trd'then come forward
;with'a kurr&h' and press the little
till slon-. The president's, sugges
tion Itat. everything-e moved up a
1( n. 5 that Congress prepare for
acj: un::-;est not later than June 20,
. ca :3 a re-ttlng for augax a month
tarl r tttz EstlcipatedU
Quite a rc r pec table sprinkling of
leaders Insisted that the sugar repeal
clause be coupled, with the consump
tion. tax tc-tl2uatlon. .This propoet
. tlon has a rLch better standing when
the periol cf action waa fixed for
March , 15 i With the date advanced
an vca cc-lh .s, large proportion of
those responsible for the well-being
of legislation reached "the conclusion
thai cs.r should atep forward alone.
- The ctinloa is expressed that this
' plan will result in creating the degree
of c;po&ition. Antagonism from the
lteputlicana is not expected or feared.
They will merely seek to go farther
than Is desired by the majority, and
restore the Payne-Aldrich rates all the
way ttro'Jh and across. It is Demo
cratic dlsircaUement the leaders, are
preparing to combat Some of this
comes . straight from the cane grow-
Ung.'stite of Louisiana. , It Is sought
dowa there to have the repeal made
permanent, so grvwers may resume
the production oi cane. Otherwise
they cannot afford to make temporary
Investments and will derive no bene
fit whatever from the extension un
til conditions become normal.
Ot,her Democrata also oppose , the
plan because oC apprehension as to
' the .popsifcle IU effects which may fall
upon many of tnem in a political way.
Hating proclaimed free sugar as a
Democratic boca to the poor man's
breakfast, cup they dread a reversal
of. the lever. ;
FINE FOR SOLDIER
V; Vj 0 KfjlFED CARTER
' . Convltd of having assaulted Henry
Carteiywith a knife on ' Christmas
nightJohn K, Stewart, an enlisted
msa; as fined $150 in Circuit Judge
Asnroms court today, the costs being
remitted, - Mittimus waa atayed until 2
o'clock next Tuesday afternoon and
the defendant released oa his own rec
ognizance until that time. Carter- be
came engaged in A drunken brawl at
Fort.-and Beretania streets and re
ceived a stab over the eye and a 15-
inch slash acrofis the . abdomen.
Lorrin Andrews and Fred Petersen,
.engaged as attorneys this morning by
Joseph QunV charged with trying to
evade payment of alimonyr asked a
continuance of the case until Friday.
Quni Ja out on bond pending triaL
FOR SALE
A 5-passenger car and road
ster la rood condition. Tel. 3230.
Nation Reveres
Lincoln; Public
Exercises Held
In Many Cities Private as Wei
as runiic business is aus
pended for Ceremonies o
Commemoration , j l
W X M X . S K
NO NEW YORK STOCKS.
M NEW YORK. N. Y Feb. 12. X
X The New York stock exchange
K hpirf ha BfiRgion today.' adjourn-
X lne out of resject to the memory
. of Lincoln. 5
f k' X H S f K X ? . a 5
WASHINGTON, D. C, Feb.; 12-
All over the country today the birth
day of Abraham Lincoln was generally
observed, public business being. sus
pended and much private business
also. ,
In i number of cities public exer
cises and other ceremonies were held.
In Washington today Congress ad
journed after an hour's session of each
house. In both nouses the time. was
given over to speeches in eulogy' of
the martyred executive. '
'it
7
SPRINGFIELD, Mase, Feb. 12.
The citv today was given over to pub
lic exercises in honor of Lincoln's
birthdy.
SUSPECT POISON
' TAjsacUtad PraaabyTsAwsl WlralaaiJ
"'CHICAGO, 11L, Feb. 12.--What is bo
le ived "by, the "manager of the Univer
sity Club? to be a deliberate attempt
at poisoning mad a hundred - sues (a
oi ine ciuo in ai a oanquei on inurs
day in- honor of the Installation j of
Archbishop Mundelein. The club man
ager announces that he believes . the
poison waa placed in the soup by a
kitchen employe. The name of the
man was not divulged, but he is de-
i scribed as a fanatic ; - " ' - r
- The police are seeking Jean Crones,
an assistant cook, who prepared, the
soup. 6 A person of 'Identical descrlp-,
lion was rouna; in crones' room. Tne
man is a linguist, and . appears to be
well educated. "
FIRST AIR MAIL
TRIED BY U. S.
AnocUtad rraas ty raderal Wlralasj '
WASHINGTON, D. C Feb. ,12.
The first aerial mall service Is in con
templation by the United States gov
ernment between Isolated points in
Alaska and Massachusetts. . ,.v "-.
Bids will soon be called for on aer
ial services on eight routes,: seven of
them in Alaska. -The longest is from
Valdea to Fairbanks, 35S miles, r
In the event that the experiment is
successful,' gradual expansion will be
made. The Alaskan mail delirerlea
which , now take .. six weeks to make
will be given in two days, it is be
lieved. - . .
T DOOR OF
taaaoeUtad Praaa y radaral Wlralasa
CHICAGO, IU, Feb. 12 Will Orput,
iunior la the Unlvrs!tv wiiMtn.
sin. was today charged with murder
"in conaectlon .with the polsoalng of
Marion Lamber, a girl' of 18. whose
body was recently found in the woods.
Orput declares his Innocence, but
admitted he had a tryst with the girl
near where the Oody was found, r He
told her he intended marrying another.
A deaf mute has reported that he saw
the man press a bottle to the girl's
lips. x ':
HUGE STAMP ROBBERY "
BEING TRACED DOWN BY
POLICE AND U. S. SLEUTHS
aiaoctatad Praia ay Tadarai Wlralasa '. .'
CHICAGO, Feb. 12. One of five
men arrested, together with several
women, for the theft of a fortune la
Internal revenue stamps on January
6, has confessed to the robbery of the,
stamps. More than , $500,000 worth of
the stamps hare beea recovered. .
HUNDRED GUESTS
AT BAWQDET ILL-
SERVICETOBE
ilROEROFGIRIi
LAID A
GVEUPFli
GAHB ER i L
PUT 'Bl IN JAIL HI
(City Attorney!s Office ,:. and
Judge Monsarrat Adopt New
v Policy to Stop Evil
MAKE TEST CASE OF 34
MEN SENTENCED TODAY
Old Scheme of Fines of $5 and
Costs and Low Bail Will Be
Definitely Abandoned " i ;
Palmy days for gamblers In Hono
lulu are a. thing of the past, if the J
circuit ' court will sustain the decls
ion rendered this morning by Judge J.
M." Monsarrat, who sentenced 34 con-'
vlcted gamblers to two days in Jail
each. c-;' ' : . y
This morning's sentence marks the
inauguration of a new policy on the ;
part tjf the city and county attorney's!
office-a new policy concurred in by i
Judge Monsarrat whereby gamblers
will no longer be let out on light bail'
or. after conviction, be let off with a
penalty of a $5 fine add SI costs.
In future, says Deputy City Attor.
hey ' Charles F. Chllllngworth, ball "in
gambling cases will be made high, and
the city attorney's office will ask for
jail sentences in all gambling cases
all cases, that is, save those which i
few acquaintances foregather to play)
for small atakes. These "friendly
gamesters will be merely fined. ,
Judge Monsarrat, in sentencing the
34 men to Jail today. Indicated that he
would adopt the course outlined by
the prosecuting attorney.
Fines Found of No Avail. : -r-
"Fines have failed to stop Oriental
gambling , here," said .Chllllngworth,
"and we will now see, with the assist
ance of Judge Monsarrat, whether we
can put. an. end to it by straight jail
sentencea." ;- ' , :
fly tire dftcislon of Judge Monsarrat.
f fen'deWd '(his morning, in the case of
Ah wing and 33 other Chinese charg
ed with being in an organized gamb
ling place, eacn or.the.34 men win
s.nend.two days In the city Jail, with
out top alternative of a fine, and all
gamblers arrested hereafter in an or
ganlsetf game In a place - thought to
be devoted to gambling, tor f where
gambling is of frequent occurrence:
or" in ia place with barricaded doors.
win be sent to jail instead of having
the privilege of paying s fine, i
The' 34 men who were sentenced
this morning in the police court to
two , days " in v jail , each were taken
about 'a week aro in a room over a
Chinese drag store on Maunakea
street,- where the prosecution contend
ed this morning regular gambllnc: is
tarried on. v..
W.. T. Rawlina, representing the
Chinese, , said there was no evidence
the toen ; were , gambling, although
they, were In a room together late at
night iwlth gambling paraphernalia
around them. After sentence he not
ed . an appeaL : ' .
Mist Ef fie Louise Craig and Miss
Clare . Jordan, Hoaolula nurses who
are now serving with the Allies' lines
In France, each received individual
mention in despatches sent from the
front by Sir John French, the British
commander. ' ,':.r,
' News of this signal honor for the
Hoaolulu young women was received
ia a letter from Miss Craig, which
reached here in yesterday's mail.
. "We both received special mention
in Sir John French's despatches," says
the letter, "in connection with our Ser
vices at Receiving Station No. 3 dur
ing the very heavy - fighting of last
spring. We did our best at that time,
but had no idea we were to be singled
out for. praise : v
. Miss, Craig's letter was written on
January 9; and was mailed at London.
TAaaocUtad Praaa ay FadarU Wiralasil
SAN FRANCISCO, CaL. Feb. 12.A
cablegram received today by the Chi
nese . Republic 'Association ; says that
more military successes have "been
gained ; by the revolutionists in the
provlace of Hunaa. .
Ypen Chow was captured easily ow
ing to the defection of the govern
ment troops. It is reported that the
governor-general la southern Hunan,
who was ordered to raise an army ta
resist the. revolutionists, : was unable
to muster ' any material number of
troops. ; . .
liMIIIRSES
ARE PRAISED BY
SliiJOi FRENCH
mSrow
President OW Yacht
Considers W
-, Li-- - j. j-'-- i . ? ?
. . ..
Frank
I Associated Press. Service
WASHINGTON, D. C.; Feb. 12.-Presldent Wilson is today giving. his
'attention to be matter of a selection of a successor for Secretary ' of rWar
Garrison, whose sudden resignation ia still the principal topic of coaversa
tlon in Washmgton circles. . , . -t . . : : a-
. . ' t . . . n . . M i . 1 J . B' LI.
Accompaniea uy roBimasier-generKi ouriesun, regaraea aaoas u uia
close advisers. Mr.. Wilson Is taking; a trip dowa the Pobomac oa the ,presl-dentlal-yacht
yflower and has put aside less pressing business ')agA that
of, Mr. Garrison's successor. ' " I. ' ' . ''
- - n ia believed generally in .Washington that he will make ' hla . selec
tion from Secretary of the Interior
or Frank U Polk, who succeeded Robert Lansing as counsellor , of the stale
department when Mr. Lansing became
Sales Total 22,227: Shares,
With General Advances AH
- Along 'Change List i
All records for the last 12 months
ia number of sales ) were brokea to
day on change, when 22,227 shares of
sugar-Btocka changed bands, and all
at prices steadily oa the rise; or show
ing material advances over yesterday's
closing quotations.- '
The feeling of security as to bene
ficial tariff legislation, coupled with
the expectation of the disbursement of
some of the immense cash reserves of
the plantations once the tariff ques
tion is settled, is resulting In a verit
able flood of buying ordersorders to
"buy at the market," which are send
ing prices up. ; . r.
Olaa closed with the last sale at
$16. Last Saturday It closed $13 bid.
McBryde last Saturday closed at 10;
today $13 was bid, with so offerings
below $14.25.
Ewa sold today at $31; one week
ago It changed handa at $28.25. Wal
alua, today bid for at 35, was bid
at 29 VI - last Saturday at the close.
Pioneer sold today at $41.50, a gain of
$5 a share in one week.. Onomea, last
week to be had at $47.75, sold today
at $51.50. Oahu. Sugar has gained
$4.75 this week, closing at last sale
at $35.50. y
Among the higher priced stocks, Ko-
loa registered a gain of $15 a share
since last Saturday selling at $170
today.. Honokaa, a stock not widely
dealt In, has jumped, from $6 to $9
in the week. - - ' v- ' '
NARROWLY ESCAPES'
DEATH WHEN HORSE
DROWNS UNDER HIM
..' His horse drowned under him in a
raging torrent he attempted to ride
through near the- bottom of Molaa
Gulch, Kauai. District Magistrate Wil
liam Huddy of Hanalei narrowiy es
caped. deathWednesday, according to
a letfer received today by. Attorney
C H. Dicey from his son; Judge Lyle
A. Dickey of the fifth circuit, court,
KauaL v ''
-The district, magistrate of Hana
lei was almost drowned going to his
home, near the bottom of vMoloaa
Gulch, says the letter in part.1 "There
was a - freshet and his horse was
drowned, but he escaped.-
9 aa ' -,'
The strike of S00 mechanics at the
Davis & ' Furber plants at Lawrence,
Mass ended, the employes accepting
a 10 per, cent wage Increase... : .
Ml HIGH LEVEL
ACHIEVED TODAY
r. v-,t s.-s .....
Lr Polk
by Federal Wireless ; v -
Lane, Secretary of Agriculture Houston
secretary, of state. ; ... :. '. , '.-f
BOARD TRIES TO
Dr. Ciemmens Charges Com
petent Operators are De-
liberatefy Riinked
Claiming that discrimination ; has
been made against them by. the terri
torial , examining board . for dentists.
Dr. M. Gold water and Dr, JLF. Steele
have appealed to Governor Pinkham.
Both Steele and Gold water failed to
(Continued oa
page two)
ln the presence of 100 Honolulans,
including representative Contractors,
navy men, Inter-Isiand officials, and
other visitors, the big steel Vtank,
which has been built at Pearl Har
bor for the purpose of carrying, the,
concrete segments ' of . the ..big . navy
drydock there; to their permanent lo
cation from the temporary drydock
where they are formed, waa launched
BUccessruHy at 11:45 thia morning at
Pearl Harbor, at the drydock slip.
-I F. B. Smkh, superintendent of dry
dock construction fo rthe San : Fran
cisco Bridge Compaay, , the drydock
contractors, presided at the launch
ing. ' The big tank went into ? the
yater without a hitch.. It is 152 feet
fong, 0 wide and 38 feet high, and
hjpa een feadv for launching lor a
month. The temporary drydock on
vthich the segments will rest until
ready to be moved, was completed
only a few days ago. ... '"V -- -
Rear Admiral Cllfrora Boush,
commandant at Pearl Harbor; Joseph
E. Sheedy, general ' ' superintendent,
and Alec Lyle. drydock superinten
dent, both cf the Inter-Island; Wal
ter F. and H. G. Dillingham , of the
Hawaiian -. Dredging Company, handl
ing the work for the contractors; and
many others were present., fjom. this
city, going In a spedaLjtraU ovet the
Dah.i Rillwar .u , v . , 1 a
Concrete pouring t$i the drydock
Segments will begin soon ' Each seg
ment will be 152 feetldx, 0 feet
wide and 14 feet 9 Inches high. The
tank: will float the segments into po
sition, actins as a bfs pc-t?rn.
KEEP BI D E
atpSlharbor
mtm mi of mm &
MEID: RUSSIAN MEIWI
MEJIED OjmLIGIA W
ONE OF MOST IIMP0RTANT MOVEMENTS OF YEAR DEVEL
OPS TO HOLD GERMANS ON EAST FRENCH IN FIERCE
FIGHT GAIN 2C0 YARDS AT MASSIGES GERMAN STEAM
SHIP INTERNED IN BRAZILIAN PORT HELD BY CANN0I.-..
Associated Press Service by Federal Wireless. 1 .
NIAGARA FALLS, New York, Feb. 12. Despite the strict cens
orship exercised by the Canadian government, information has come
fiom reliable sources that last night the Canadians across the river j
from Niagara Falls were stirred by an extraordinary scare regard-
ing a supposed invasion of Germans from the American side. ,
According to this information, which Canadian authorities re
fuse to discuss in any manner Niagara Falls, Ontario, heard a
sensational report that Germans would try jto cross from the Amer
ican side and attack bridges and buildings. . ::rj '
"Acting on this report, a force of 500 men, armed-with three
machine guns, were placed on guard around the power plants which
cluster near the falls, and at the Canadian end of the i international
bridges. The men slept last night under arms. T , V
' The scare Was apparently unfounded, as nothing happened. It
had been reported that Buffalo was to be the base of operations for
the Germans, s ' - ; ' . : ' "
Russians By Of f ensive Move in
Galicia Hold Germans on East
c PETROGRAD, Russia, Feb. 12. One of the most important
movements of the year on the east front is the big Russian offensive
maturing along, the entire Galician front. ' " " -
; The Germans are on , the defensive on the Sereth, Pruth and
Dneister rivers and at Usceczko, where they are" firmly entrenched.
The Russian movement, has interrupted one, of the. most important
lines of communication. between the armies of General Pflanzer aml
.Gen. yqiv.Bothmer. rr " " ,:;r -:" ; - " - r v
:' " A third important Russian advance is being made'neac.Zale and
Szcyky. The Hungarian. v troops' attemptinjg to check, tire SUys heiu.
are said t be demoralized and: to have retreateil' foW'anlTea, Itir,
admitted that this movement; has "no immediate strategic value, but- '
it has prevented the Germans - from withdrawing vtr6ops for use"
against other lines of the Allies. .
Fired on Vhen Speed; For Opsn Sea
; RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil, Feb. 12. What appeared to be a '
bold attempt at escape by an interned German steamship was foiled
today only when the steamer was put under cannon-fire.
, The German steamship r Asuncion, which has been interned at
Para for many months, requested permission to leave her. moorings,
approach the wharf and take on water. Under cover of a fog which
drifted over the harbor, the GeVman steamer turned and instead of
going to the wharf headed for sea at speed. T , '' .
The Brazilian cruiser Republica under, orders to stop the speed
ing vessel, fired blanks from her; guns but the steamer would not
ttop. . Th6 cniiser then fired projectiles across the Asuncion's bows
and the German craft thereupon stopped and returned to the har
bor. Called upon for an explanation, her captain declared that, he
had no intention of escaping. The Brazilian authorities are making .
an investigation. . t .'., " . , ' -f. .
;.' ';;-;: ' - ::- '; "S ;. '.. '-. .
Austrians NumberiDg 30,000 Tlove )
Along Albania Coast to Durozzo
PARIS, France, Febi 12. A Rome despatch declares that the
strength of the Austrian army-marching along the Albanian coast to
attack Durazzo is estimated at 30,000. The remainder of the strong
Austrian force invading Albania is engaged in guarding the couny 1
behind the advance. ' , - .
Heavy Fighting on Vest; French Gain
PARIS, France, Feb. 12. Further heavy fighting in the Cham
pagne district has resulted in the capture of German trenches. '
: BERLIN, Germany, Feb. 12. The war office announced today -that
after a violent artillery preparation carried out along the greater
part of the western line in Champagne, the French had penetrated
200 yards into German positions at'Massiges. x ; '
German
Prince
Joachim
LONDON, Eng., Feb. 12. An Amsterdam despatch says that
the Kaiser, has announced his decision that the marriage of his sixth
son Prince Joachim, to Princess Marie Augustine shall be solemnized
iX Potsdam on March 11. Prince Joachim; is 26 years of age. A ,
V The following' cablegrams from official German sources have
been received ' " " ;'
"GERMAN HEADQUARTERS, " Feb. 'II. Northwest of Vimy
the French, after several hours artillery . preparation tried four
times to take back their lost trenches . but all attacks .failed. Also
south of the Somme the French have been unable to take back any
parts of the position lost there.! In the Aisne and Champagne dis
tricts there are isolated but lively artillery duels. '
'A German captive balloon without inmates got lost and drifted
near Vailley over the enemy's lines. - u ' , ' ' ' . : '; .
" 'On the east front, north of Drysvyaty lake the advance of
strong Russian detachment was repulsed." -' '
'OFFICIAL REPORT OF THE
9. German aeroplanes dropped rrjmercr.s borr'en V.
factories cf Tn-':
to
Many
"-
GERMAN ADMIHALTY, Feb.
