ftTPf -Wmr-nr
I TWtfT T-fTT
f-rt -. -viirw , mttiii,ujmipimu'iimi)..vmiy"
iErttger
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. H.-NO. 130
ituenm
NIGHT
EXTRA
;A
W
i
r
n
a-
HOUSTON MAY
BE APPOINTED
TO WAR POST
Leads Among Those Men
tioned to Succeed Gar
I rison in Cabinet
ELECTION BY TOMORROW
president, It Is Believed, Will
Pick the Man While on
I Yachting Trip
WASHINGTON, rob. 12. President
Wilson will bring bnck the namo or his
hew Scctetnry ot War when he returns
to WBBhlnqlon tomorrow, It la liollcvcit
hy official Washington today. The Presi
dent and Mrs. Wilson nro enjoying ft river
trip on tlio Mnjlliiwcr.
MIIiourIi there Ib strong belief that a
I "dark horse" will bo the President's
choice. It Is known that when ho left
Washington lust night two men stood
foremost In bis consideration for War
Secretary- These were Secietailes Hous
ton and Lane, present members of bis
Cabinet, both regarded very highly by
tho President, both headB of Important
Departments of tho Government nnd
familiar with departmental work and
both In Immediate, touch with what Iiiih
paused over (be Cabinet tabic since tho
President took office.
Of theso two Houston scorns to bo men
tioned most prominently today. Qcrinnn
Amerlcnti opposition to I.nno has been
voiced since It became known that ho Is
of Canadian birth.
Houston comes from Mlssouil, regarded
by the Administration ns a Wilson State;
he Is In Intimate touch with farming In
terests nnd might bo In a position to
reconcile those Interests to n prepared
ness program. Abovo all, ho has had tho
departmental experience which the Pres
ident Is snid to feel absolutely necessary
lntho present emergency.
Thero hns been considerable talk of
General Goethnls being offered tho place,
bat It wns stntcd on high authority that
I thus far Oocthals "has not been con
sidered." Goetlmli talk bad Its Incep
tion In n bint dropped by a Cnblnct ofll-
cer, Immediately followed by Indications
In the Senate that bis namo was being
discussed as a possible successor.
It haB not been tho practice to appoint
military men permanently as Secretary
f War. Precedent, therefore, may bo
Continued on 1'atre Five, Column l'he
LOSESHIS PRETTY HAIR
IN RESCUING POODLES
)mM
ohn McMenamin Injured in
Fire arffis'Horne !Blind
1 Brother Barely Saved
An attempt to rescue two white French
poodles that were whining nnd yelping
In.the cellur cost John McMenamin large
sections of his proudest possession bis
flne.'bushy hair when fire damaged tho
house of his father, Thomas McMena
min. 1817 South ISth street, this afternoon.
When the young man opened tho cellar
door to make a dash Into tho smoke-filled
depths, llttlo tongues of llamos leaped
out and licked his crown bare in spots.
One of the dogs Is dead and the other
had his white body charred and tho wool
patches burned bald.
Tho tiro Is thought to have started from
defective flue, ft spread through the
whole house, floors nnd ceilings of which
soon gave way. Thomas Burns. 70 years
Old, a blind brother of Mrs. McMenamin,
narrowly escaped. He wns rescued by
Joseph rtyan, 23 years old, who lives
across the stieet. He was one of the
first on the scene, nnd rushed tin the
( stairs to try to get out some of tho fur
niture.
He found the blind man nearly ex
hausted In the smoke as ho tapped with
his. cane nnd stumbled hnltindv toward
I the stairs, ltyan picked him up bodily
and carried him down.
Sirs. McMenamin was rescued by her
on and had to be given first nld on the
street. The damage was $1G00.
Strike at Graphophone "Works
BRIDGEPORT, Conn., Feb. 13. - Bo.
cause their demand for double tlmo for
Lincoln's Birthday was refused, nearly
all the employes of the American Grapho.
Phone Company, numbering about 2000,
truck today.
THE .WEATHER
The great mistake of our lives Is now
PParent. We should have specialized In
flectrlclty. Here Is Mr. Edison predict
ing that prohibition, suffrage, victory for
1 Allies and safety for the United
mates are all sure to come. He evidently
ran, read the future at a glance, whereas
?" continually forced to read our
suit) Hating errors In cold print, having
ireoicted rain on the sunniest day of the
J ' To be Intimate with electricity
im It? was la evidently to have Insight
" I"18 General scheme of things and the
program, of the universe. Why It should
:;' Jlw not. But It Is generally con
a that success In any line gives a
""nee to prophesy, If you have made
"ons m soap, we would like very much
w .ww.hat yu Predict about the fu
"J 'f China. If you have Invented an
12 fcP' ? w,u respectfully listen to what
u ioui Bay about tne ,mnlortallty ot
foactua,,5r' ,f yu know how to write
you "ewPaPer, people will believe what
u Bay about the weather.
FORECAST
CkI. Phi!?d'elPhfo and vicinity
Si aH unsettled tonight and
ffly T' Probably rain; not much
mnd. UmVerature; gentle easterly
for details see page 5,
, 10ST AND FOUND
wIm ISXS& S?'?. r ne return of dla-
WtJy. Prhr.Ti, " """""" eilin, lost
!"" lfoti iKA at or """ xb Winder.
oformitlon1 r ; fr5l, "ward for authentic
t&m chtJJiwl"n lo " recovery. M 033.
saoocTETi
wtto sf Me.?f" bJ?ocb. SsrlngBold St.,
r--i. -- . lloltaad. aiort rhutnm .
Slit I ' , ' w y .. .
ltto5m ?5ir,?1nd "PPhlre bar pin. et fa
h "m uvr JitM cummtng.. Aldlo Hotel.
J1" Uit "Bd lounj Ad on l'aio 1J
app and Birsky
KANSAS EXCHANGES FLAGS WITH PENNSYLVANIA AT INDEPENDENCE HALL
Battle flags exchanged between the
AGED PAIR SLAIN;
JERSEY POSSE IN
HUNT; MAY LYNCH
Farmer and His House
keeper Are the Victims of
Wertsville Crime
ROBBERY THE MOTIVE
TRENTOX, Feb. 12. A posse of men,
bent on lynching, Is.ttaoldng a man, who,
Into yesterday afternoon, with nx nnd
bullet, killed Itlchnrd Dyckoff. 7.', years
old, n. farmer living ne.tr Wertsville, llo
miles north of Hopowcll, and his house
keeper. Miss (fathertno Fisher, also 75
years old, fof tho purpose. It Is believed,
of robbing tho li'dtisc. """
Tho man's body lay In the kitchen nnd
on tho porch nearby wns n bloodstnined
nx, tho weapon used by the slayer. His
bead was deeply gashed and his throat
cut from car to car.
The body of the housekeeper was found
In the barn, covered with straw. Her
head was crushed. On the second floor
of tho house was found a sharp Iron in
strument with which, It Is believed. Mio
wns killed, although thero was also a.
bullet wound In her head.
Tho double crime was discovered by
William II. Wyckoff. n friend of tho
Wyckoffs, who also lives near Wertsville.
Wyckoff visited the Wyckoff homestead
once every week to seo how the aged
couplo wcro getting along, and It wns
while on such a visit yesterday afternoon,
about 5 o'clock, that ho found tho two
bodies.
It Is supposed that the farmer wns mur
dered while his friend was driving to tho
homestead, -nnd that tne killing of the
woman In the barn nccurred while ho
was In the house.
The authorities bellevo the double mur
der the work of one man. Footprints of
only ono person could be found In tho
snow, nnd theso led from tho houso to the
bam nnd thence to a nearby woods,
through which tho slayer evidently
escaped.
A posse started out to follow tho
tracks late last rrlght. With Increased
numbers the posto this morning continued
tho man hunt, determined to lynch tho
murderer if bo Is caught.
Sheriff Sharp and County Detective
Hann are working on the case. They
believe the motive was robbery. Every
bureau drawer In tho house was ransack
ed and Its contents strewn on the floor.
All places where valuables would likely
bo kept were torn open. It Is believed
that only about 5100 was stolen.
Wyckoff was a man of moderate means,
but never kept a largo sum of money In
the house. Only n small amount of
change wasfound after tho murder.
In the barn, near tho body of tho wom
an, was a basket of fruit that was taken
from the cellar. Concealed beneath tho
fruit was a revolver, containing one
empty cell. It ,1s believed this weapon
was used to make certain the death of
Miss Fisher. It is supposed that tho
woman went to tho barn to feed the live
stock, when she was attacked.
Wyckoff was an invalid, and, It Is be
lieved, ho was lying on the couch In his
kitchen when the slayer entered the room.
His body was found near the couch.
Wyckoff was n bachelor. Ho hnd only
ono relative, a niece, living at Sklllmnn.
He employed no farm hnnds at this sea
son of the year.
RUMANIA E BULGARIA
VICINEALLAGUERRA
II Governo Rumeno Chiede
Spiegazioni Per lo Sconiina-
mento di Truppe Bulgare
L'n dlspacclo da Bucarest ad un glornale
dl Qenevra dice che 11 governo rumeno
ha domandato alia Bulgaria dl spl;gare
J'lncldente delle truppe bulgare che pas
sarono in territorio rumeno e furono at
taccate dalle truppe rumene. Nel clrcoll
diplomatic! dl noma si ritiene che a Ru
mania trovera' Insodlsfacentl le spiega
zioni che le saranno date dal governo
Dulsaro, e percio' le rclazlonl tra I due
paell bilcanlcl saranno troncate seni'a 1
tro Da queato alia dichlarazlone dl
uuerra 11 passe- satu' breve.
aeggere In ia pagina le ultlme e plu'
dettaellate notizle sulla Kuerra, In
Itallano.)
Discuss Prison
PnLLADELPUIA, SATURDAY, PEBKUALIY 12, 191G.
two States were raised at noon today
BOYS HONOR DEAD CHUM
Gaze at Child Whoso Christmas Toys
Lay Untouched
Small friends from tho neighborhood,
too young to realize tho fate that hntl
overtaken their chum, filed In hushed
nnd awed silence today into tho house
at (121 North ISth street, vvlieio tlve
, ear-old "IJlik" Dcvlue lay dead The
Christmas tree that hud delighted him
hns not been taken down. Ills ( hilit
mas toys nro beside It. there he askod
his mother to put them when he became
111 on New Year's l)a.
PANAMANS ROB
U. S. OF MILLIONS,
GOETHALS SAYS
Governor of. Canal Zone As-
.-sails Award of Claims -""
by Commission
FEAST FOR "SQUATTERS"
WASHIXGTOX. Feb. 12. The United
States Is bolng "robbed" of between ?1G,
000,00 nnd $17,000,000 through n too lib
eral attitude of tho Panama-United States
Joint land commission, according to Gen
eral Georgo W. Goethals, Governor of the
Cannl Zone. Enormous, extravagant pay
ments are being allowed privato owners
of laud needed for canal purposes, Goe
thals told the House Commorce Commit
tee. Much of this money Is going to
"squatters" with no legal title to the
land, in his opinion, nnd ho suggested
legislation thnt will compel payments
only on tho vnluo of the land, an in 190:1,
when the Canat Zono was acquired. He
also has asked tho Houso Commerce Com
mittee to push through a bill terminating
tho activity of the joint commission with
in six months.
"It Is ratlicr hard to stuy there nnd seo
our Government robbed tho way it has
been in the past, snld Goethnls to the
committee. 'If tho commission and we
had several were held down to tho valu
ations placed on tho lands in 1903, they
would havo paid claims hardly ag
gregating 51,000,000, but tho claims paid
now nggrcgate something llko JU.OOO.OCrt
or $13,000,000. Tho commission has taken
tho ground that wo are a big republic
nnd thut tho Panamuns are rather
poor and thut we should pay liberally
for theso londs."
"ABOVE AI,L REASON."
"They are nbovo all reasun; they ure
an international court."
Goethals gavo tho commission instances
where tho commission awarded claimants
"3000 or -1000 per cent," over tho valuo
of lauds In 1903. He declared that claim
ants who bad ulrendy agreed to turn their
lands over to tho Government at moder
ate figures later repudiated their gree
menta nnd wcro "awarded enormously
larger amounts."
Chairman Adamson said that while on
the Isthmus last November he had been
told that one piece of land which sold
originally for $1500 and later for $1500 wns
finally valued nt J3C0.O0O by tho commls
mission, and asked whether this wns an
authentic case.
"yes," replied General Goethnls, "and
there were other cases. In that very
si mo vicinity another piece of land has
been valued at $S000 a square metre and
we are fighting it."
Goethals told of another Instance where
the United States had agreed to pay $5
a hectare for land bought in 1903 for $1
a hectare. The commission no has
awarded $2a a hectare, he said. Through
the operations of squatters, he said, the
commission would pay several times for
the same piece of land.
"And tho Joint land commission is Ig
noring and treating the agreements that
were made by the original owners as mere
scraps of paper," asked Representative
Sims.
"That is right; yes, sir."
"And the treaty?"
"Yes. sir."
"EXPUNGED FROM REPORT."
Genoral Goethals told the committee
that his opinions that the Joint Land
Committee had exceeded ita authority
and had violated laws and treaties pro
visions had been set forth in a portion
of his annual report, which had been
"expunged," either by the War Depart
ment or the State Department. He agreed
to submit the suppressed part of the re
port to the committee.
"I am called before the committee for
my views on the joint Land Commission,"
he said, "and my conscience is clear,"
Reform and Warden Osborne in Their Inimitable
on the anniversary of Lincoln's birth,
POSSE HUNTS RAIDING WOLF
Animal Works Havoc in Montgomery
Roosts nnd Piggeries
A wolf Is nt largo In Montgomery
County nnd thnt part of Philadelphia this
sldo of Southampton. It has killed num
bers of pigs and chickens somo of the
pigs wcro pedigreed pigs and a big loss
and posses of farmers' employes are bunt
ing It down. Its tracks havo been teen
In the nnnw nnd havo been followed, but
tho tt nil hns alwnys been lost In wooded
sections,
rumaniaInters
protest against
BDLGAR INVASION
Ready to Plunge Into War
'-jfeC-bn-Sifle of Allies, Is
Swiss Rumor
500,000 MEN UNDER ARMS
AMSTERDAM. Feb. 12. The Bul
garian Czar Ferdinand, after a con
ference with the Kaiser, is now con
ferring with the Austrian General
Staff regarding Rumania's threats to
enter the war with the Allies, accord
ing to dispatches received here today.
Meanwhile, Austrian troops are be
ing concentrated along the Bukowina
border to meet the heavy Russian at
tacks and at the same time to be
ready to check any sudden movement
by the Rumanians. The increasing
activity norlh of Czernowitz is attrib
uted to the desire by both Russia and
Austria to impress Rumania by a show
of strength.
Gn.N'RVA, Feb. 12. Rumania Is reported
in n dispatch from Bucharest to havo
demanded an explanation from Bulgaria
of tho action of Bulgarian troops in
crossing the Rumanian frontier.
Advices from Italian soutccs nre to
tlin effect that Rumania will find the ex
planation "unacceptable," and that diplo
matic relations between the two countries
will be broken off.
LONDON, Feb. 13. Tho Neue Zurlcher
Zeltung, which Is pro-German and has
Influential friends nt Berlin, warns Ger
many that Rumania is rapidly drifting
Into the war on tho side of the Allies, ac
cording tn Milan dispatches today.
The Rumanian Government has asked
larger credits for military purposes, and
tho present preparations aro far In excess
of what Is needed for nrmed neutrality,
the Swiss paper asserts. Tho Buchatest
correspondent of the Zeltung wired that
military preparations are being made
openly, which leave no doubt of Ruma
ula's Intentions.
GEORGE R. VAN DIISEN DEAD;
PROMINENT 3IE31HER OF IJAR
Was Member of Board of Law Exam
iners Skilled Lawyer
George R. Van Dusen, a prominent mem
ber of the Bar, died today at his home,
240 West Kvergreen avenue. Chestnut
Hill. Mr. Van Dusen was born in Phil
adelphia, February 18, 1857, received his
primary education at private bchools and
was graduated from Princeton University
In the Class of 187T. He was a student-at-law
In the offlce of the late K. Spencer
Miller, was graduated from the Law
School of the University of Pennsylvania
In 1879, apd since his admission to the
Bar has been actively engaged In general
practice or tne law.
Mr. Van Dusen enjoyed the confidence
ot the Court, and by appointment of the
Judges, served as a member of the Board
ot Law Examiners and as a Special Ex
aminer In the Orphans' Court and also as
an offlcer of the Law Association. He
was an excellent type of a conservative,
careful and skilful Philadelphia lawyer.
Mr. Van Dusen married, in 1891, Katht
arlne Pitney, daughter of Vice-Chancellor
Henry C, Pitney, of New Jersey, and a
sister of Justice Mahlon Pitney, of the
United States Supreme Court. He is sur
vived by his widow and a daughter. Kath
arine, now a student at Vassar, and a son,
Henry Pitney Van Dusen, now a student
at Princeton.
"" "" i
t
in the irescnci! of many veterans.
FRENCH SMASH
GERMANS' LINE
IN CHAMPAGNE
Berlin Admits Foes Cap
tured 200 Yards of
Trenches Near
Massiges
TEUTONS TAKE CRATER
BERLIN, Feb. 12.
A great bnttlo Is now raging in Chum
pngno, ns well as tn Artols, and It Is ad
mitted by tho German War Olllco that tho
French havo mado gains there. Northeast
ot Mnsslgnes tho French penetrated Gcr
mnn positions over a front ot 2C0 yards. "
The text of the olllclal statement Issued
by the Wor Ofllce today follows:
"Following a violent nrtlllory bombard
ment of our front in Champagne tho
French attacked Inst night cast of tho
Farm of Maison de Champagne, northeast
of Massiges. Tho enemy succeeded In pen
etrating our position over a front of 200
ynrds. Wo occupied the edges of tho
crater mado by a mlno explosion on Com-
bres Hill. The mlno had been set off by
tho French In front of our trenches."
PARIS. Feb. 12.
Tho capture of TM yards of German
trenches in Champagne Is announced by
the French War Olllco. A counter-attack
by tho Gormans wus repulsed. Hltty
flve prlsonors, ono of them an olllcer, wns
captured.
Following Is the text of nn ofllclal com
munique given out at the War Olllco to
day: "Latest rcpoits show that the latest at
tacks mado by hand grenades carried out
by tho Fiench yesterday In tho region
northeast of tho Iiutte Du Mesnll (Cham
pagne) following a sovero bombardment,
gave tin the possession of about 3"0 yaids
of the enemy's trenches.
"A violent counter-attack by tho enemy
wns completely repulsed. Sixty-live pris
oners, one of them nn ofllccr, wcro cap
tured. There Is nothing to repoit fiom
tho rest of tho front."
BOY'S SPINE BADLY
INJURED AFTER DIVE
IN SWIMMING POOL
"Tom" England, Haverford
School Lad, Taken in Para
lyzed Condition to
Hospital
FIGHTS HARD FOR LIFE
"Tom" England, one of tho most
popular students in the Haverfoid School,
Is in a critical condition In the llryn
Mawr Hospital, paralyzed ns the lesult
ot Injuring his spine when he was diving,
with a few other companions. In tho
swimming pool of tho school. Young
Kngland, whose full name Is Thomas Y.
England, la the 10-yeai-old son of Mrs.
James W. Ihigland, of St. David's.
Although tho boy Is unable to move
any part ot his body below the armpits,
he is conscious and cheerful, und his grit
Is described by the hospital attendants
as remarkable.
Two surgeons and a physician are
watching over the lad every minute. An
X-ray examination has shown thut there
is no break In the vertebrae, nlthough it
Is believed that tho spine has been
seriously Injured near the base of the
head.
Tho accident occurred at S o'clock
Thursday afternoon. England, In com
pany with a few other students at tho
school was taking a late swim. The
pool was nearly deserted. Several of the
boys were diving fiom the diving board
at the deep end ot the pool, when Kng-
Continued on Vuite Two, Column Thq
REVISE BRAZIL CONSTITUTION
Modeled After U. S. Document, Now
Called "Antiquated"
RIO DK JANEIRO. Fob, 12. Because It
is "antiquated and unsulted to the neods
of modern democracy," the Federal Con
gress of Brazil has named a committee to
revise the Constitution.
Brazil's Constitution is copied almost
verbatim from tht of the United States.
CoptmoiiT, 1010, m the Vvtue l.r.Dam Cohpant.
QUICK
INTERNED GERMAN SHIP ATTEMPTS TO ESCAPE
KIO DE JANEIRO, Teh. 12. An attempt by the Interned Ger
in. ai iierelir.iit nhp Asuncion to escape fiom t!v hnvbor nt Para has
! i i frustrated by Brpzlllnn warships. The German nhtp tried to
tnkr inlvriiTrxge of ton to slip out to reft but returned when fli-d upon.
RUSSIANS AIM HEAVY ATTACK ON TARNOPOL LINE
PJCTKOGRAD, Feb. 12. The whole southwestern Russian front,
from Volhyiin, southward to Bessarabia, is now the scene of violent
rijjhtiug;. General Ivanoff Is directing a heavy attack against the Aus
trian positions west of laruopol.
CROWN PRINCE REPORTED RELIEVED OF COMMAND
THE HAGUE, Feb. 12,-Crown Prince Frederick William of Gor
ninuy has been virtually deposed from command of his army corps and
will be assigned to nominal command of the German air corps, accord
lug to leports from Bulgluiu. This action wnb taken by the Kaiser,
the icportii state, becuusu the Ciown Prince has manifested incompetence.
ARGENTINA AND BOLIVIA NEAR DIPLOMATIC BREAK
RIO DE JANIERO, Feb. 12. Diplomatic relations between tho republic of
Argentina and Bolivia nro Boverely strained, it Is persistently rumored hero,
over the old boundary dispute. The reports, however, nro met with ofllclal
denials from both Governments. Argentina is said to have lost patience with
Bolivia for tho latter's fnlluro to complete lier part of tho international rail
way, tho "Estrnda do Ferre do la Qulacn,"
SWISS EXPEL AUSTRIAN CONSULATE ATTACHE
LONDON, Feb. 12. Ex-Secretary Thausslg, of tho Austrian Consulate
nt Geneva, has been expelled from Switzerland, on tho ground that lie in a
spy, according" to Berne dlspatchCH todny. Tho Swiss authorities nro also
considering tho expulsion of n group of Turks, accused of hatching; a con
spiracy for n world-wide Moslem uprising.
BERLIN AND AUSTRIA TO REPAIR EACH OTHER'S CITIES
VIENNA, Feb. 12. Tho Mayor of Vienna at a meeting of tho Municipal
Council today stated that Germany would take sponsorship of ono Austro
Hungarlan city damaged by tho war, while Austria and Hungary would each
tako sponsorship for ono Germnn city. Germany chose Gorlzia; Austria chose
Ortelsburs and Hungary, Gordaucn.
CANADA WILL CENSOR AMERICAN NEWSPAPERS
BUFFALO, N. Y Feb. 12. Local newspaper offices today were authorized
to stato that every edition of tho American papers would bo rigidly examined
by officers of the Canadian militia, acting on orders of tho Dominion War De
partment, and the circulation stopped In every Instnnco whero stories were
carried "detrimental to the welfare of Canada." Newspaper men, assigned
to Investigate now movements of troops nlonjr tho frontier last night, wer
turned back at the bridge.
AVARNS OF WATER WASTE IN SOUTH PHILADELPHIA
Carelessness nnd wastago of water in South Philadelphia homes is causing
n loss of hundreds of thousands of gallons daily, said Carloton E. Davis, chief
of tho Water Bureau, today, and a dangerous situation is being created thereby.
Next week Mr. Davis will send notices to all property owners and renters
who llvo south of Walnut street, requiring that they stop the waste. Tha
worst offenders are in the neighborhood of Oregon avenue. It is said as
much water is being used now as In midsummer.
BRITAIN MASSES MIGHTY ARMY IN EGYPT
LONDON, Feb. 12. A mighty army is being massed In Egypt by Kngland.
Tho 1st South African Infantry Brigade, which arrived in Egypt a fortnight
ago, has now been Kent to the Suez Canal district. It Is believed that n
heavy proportion of the British troops withdrawn from tho Dardanelles are
now in Egypt. Reports that Lord Kitchener will be sent to Egypt to take
command will not down.
The steady stream of reinforcements that has been pouring Into Egypt
for tho last six months bus Increased the strength of the British forces there
to approximately 300,000 men.
ATTACKED BY U-BOAT, CALLS FOR HELP
ROME, Feb. 12. A wireless dispatch to tho Messaggero from Syracuse
states that the steamship Porto Smyrna received an "S. O. S." call today from
u French vessel which was being attacked by a German submarine.
RUSSIANS BAG ZEPPELIN AND SIX AEROPLANES
PETROGRAD, Feb. 12. It la announced that during the last three weeks
battles in the air have resulted in the destruction of six German aeroplanes and
a Zeppelin without tho loss of a single Russian machine. Two air machines
a day aro now being constructed and are being manned by carefully trained
crews.
VIENNA DENIES DESTRUCTION OF SKODA PLANT
nERLIN, Feb. 12. Reports circulated by the Havas Agency that the great
Skoda works at Pilsen had been destroyed by an explosion are categorically
denied by the Vienna authorities. "No explosion has occurred in the Skoda,
works," says a dispatch from Vienna. "Work is proceeding undisturbed. The
Havas Agency report Is a pure invention,"
FIRST G. O. P. DELEGATES UNINSTRUCTED
ELCELSIOR SPRINGS, Mo.-, Feb. 12. The first two delegates selected, to
the Republican National Convention at Chicago In June go uninstructed. That
was the 'decision today ot the 3d Missouri Congressional District Convention,
In session here.
TO DEFER FILIPINO INDEPENDENCE, LEADERS AGREE
WASHINGTON, Feb. 12. -Postponement of Philippine Independence sev
eral years was the compromise plan before Congress today. Following confer
ences between President Wilson, Chairman Jones, of the House Indular Com
mittee, and Democratic Leader Kitchin it became known today that the Smuits
bill providing for Filipino independence In four yearn will be amended by tho
House Committee to stave oft action for 10 years.
Way on Page 12
PRICE OlSTE CENT
NEWS
of This Edition
jiiiratawarwwtji - --- r---
