WEATHER
fflARKETb
NEW YORK CITY
week ending Feb. 9
25.87.
Arizona Fair
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL.18, NO. 222.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 12, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
MY FRONTS
TELL TALES
ENGLISH CALL HER
"WOMAN WHO DARED"
WH I CH
Reports from Scenes of Battle
Contain Much Conriicting
Information, Petrograd Says
Ru3c.ia.ns Progress.
CONSTANTINOPLE SAYS
BRITISH ARE HELD
London Denies Berlin's Claims
of Naval Success; Belgian
London Legation Denies a
Rumor of Peace. '
LONDON, Feb. 11. Except for the
Artois region France, Volhynia, East
Galician sectior'v Russia inactivity
continues on Oe war fronts. The
Italians and Austrians continue artil
lery duels despite heavy snows in the
moutnains. with occasional infantry
attacks without appreciable results.
The Austrians have occupied a posi
tion dominating the heights in the
region of the port of Durazzo, Albania.
Petrograd says the Russians continue
to make progress against the Turks.
They assert the Ottomans' attempt to
assume the offensive is being chacked
by the Russians. The bombardment
of Turkish positions in the Black Sea
is being"eontinued by Russian torpedo
craft.
Constantinople asserts there is fight
ing between the Turks and British in
Mesopotamia. TbP British attempted
to advance fjoni the right bank of
the Tigris but were compelled to re
treat to tlivir old positions. Hard
fighting is still in progress around
Vimy where the French are endea
oring to recapture the positions the j
Germans recently took. I
Berlin reports four French attacks
in this region were repulsed and also
a similar offensive with like puroose
south of Somme resulted in failure.
The French have been active with ar
tillery at various points and caused
considerable damatre to German po
rtions. In the Riea section of the
Russian front, artillery duels have
been in progress. The Russians werei
repulsed in a Teutonic 'counter-attack
at Volyhyn'a. In the northwest of
Tarnanol held the strategic heights
desnife an attack by numerically su
perior forces of Austrians, according
to Petrograd.
fi $ Liii
1 if i
(MM ill
t i. . . i
1 ' W V W W I
ri 1 Krr 1.1
.;-
rkt I I I
1 t .
I I .rV M
' l miJJ
JOHN PUTNAM!
NOTED BAIL I
JUMPER I
( SENATOR WORKS FAVORS SINGLE TAX FOR THE NATION'S CAPITAL
So Say Fostoffice Inspectors ,
Who Seek Him for Mining j
Stock Frauds; Identified as.
Dr. John Grant Ly man
LATTER REFUGEE .
FROM HAND OF LAW:
Mrs. St. a air Stobert.
Mrs. St. Clair Stobert was sen
tenced to be shot as a spy by Ger
man authorities in Belgium. She es
caped to Serbia last year end suffer
ed the horrors of typhus. She
cheated death a third time during
the great Serbian retreat, and is now
planning a trip to some new scene
where she may be of service to her
country.
; STAB I LSZ N G F
LAND VALUES
THE RESULT
Rudolph Kuchler, Prominent
. Resident of Salt River Val
ley, Paints Great Future for
Maricopa.
I Said to Have Been Friend of j
Wealthy Pasadena Woman; ;
Lyman Under $20CGO Bail; j
; May Have Fled to Europe, j
i
NEW YORK, Feb. 11 John Put
jnani, who is being sought by post of-!
f fif-e inGnoi-lnra In nnnfttnn vIMi the
conspiracy to defraud investors in :
j mining stocks by alleged use of the ;
mans, was laenimea oy omciats wno
declare he was Dr. John Grant Lyman,'
convicted in 1914 in Los Angeles forj
mail swindles, and sentenced to two
years but who jumped his bail. j
Lyman, 'who operated in thlH cityj
under the name df John Putnam &
Company, escaped arrest yesterdey j
and is believed to have sailed for;
Europe on the steamship Baitic. Louis'
Thornet, who acted as manager of the1
company, was arrested on a charge of
being concerned with Lyman in con
spiracy to defraud. He will be ar
raigned tomorrow.
Paul Schenk, attorney for John Ly
man, said the friends of the promoter
informed him last night that Lyman
would communicate with him within
the next twenty two hours. 'This is
the first 'word Schenck has had con-
-"..... "
V I :r . .v V'
A : V JOMN U .'
rZZ-'.& iw
' 35 VtMs-Vs-ivSL
3
i
.-'.jr.-, tr
-
j
ARMGNYNQVJ
D
s
TO DEFEND
' Garrison's Resignation Ap
! pears to Have Cleared Way
j for Closer 'Union Between
President and Congress.
! WILSON'S CONFIDENCE -I
INSPIRES LAWMAKERS
I cevning Lyman since January 1914
j when the promoter, under sentence
! for mail fraud in connection with 'the ,
I sale of Panama lands, declared him-
j self a pauper and unable to j ap the I
costs of an appeal. Schenck said he
is convinced Lyman is in this country
instead of Europe. The lawyer added
the last information said Lyman was
inSwitzerland preferring to "go into
the trenches."
Lyman is under $2(1,000 bail, perd-l
Ping the outcome of his appeal to the;
United States Circuit Court of Ap- .
peals. Among bis sureties is a bond
ing company said to have been en
gaged by a wealthy young woman
who formerly lived in Pasadena.
i Pennsylvania Avenue, showing antiquated structures between Treasury Building and New Wiilard Hotel.
S
! A report favoring a single tax) Heretofore the expenses cf the i costly government buildings and fine
or. land for the city of Washing- district have been paid half by con- hotels.
ton has been filed by Senator Works Igresa and half by the local taxpay- Singlctaxers who appeared before
of California, as a member of the ; ers. besides thU, many improve-: the committee argued that an ade
ioint select committee which has jments have been installed by special quate tax on land would induce thoe
been deliberatin.? on the finance and j congressional appropriation. unprogressive owners to improve
administration of the nation's cap- j Low taxes have made it easy for their lots or sell them, while the re
ntal. Senator Works favors abolish-. unprogressive !aiid owners to hold mission of taxes on buildings would
iig the district, but extending the valuable lots pr;ctk-a!'y out of use. encourage building,
city limits, to the present district Thui Ptnnsylvaniv. avenue, one' of ! Senator Works gives las approval
limits. -Ha would have congress rule the world's famous streets, harbors to these arguments and contends that
:t!.e capita! city, but give the latter an army of one-story shacks and j single tax would be xuoh easier to
representation in congress. 'ancient residences, interspersed "villi administer.
Phoenix and the Salt . iver Valley
and all of the many smaller commu-
' London Officially denied the Berlin J nities of the section will be stabilized
claf mthat German torpedo boats sank! by the recent decision of the cost re-
ot Dogger Eank a British cruiser and
also torpedoed another boat of the
name class. British denials indicated
it was one of four mine sweeoing
vessels which was sunk. The Belgian
letration In London brands as untrue a
renort that Belgium rerently made
peoce proposals to (iermany.
ninrr
iiihiio DLurr
SAT ENGLISH
PLUMM P
ULn!
EDITORS
Teutonic Memorandum on Fu
ture Treatment of Armed
Merchantmen Riles British
Editors to Increased Rancor.
LONDON, Feb. 11. Evening news
papers commenting on the German
memorandum regarding future treat
ment by Germany of armed merchant
men allude to it as "piracy and bluff."
The. Pall Mall Gazette says: "The
Gerran Admiralty is horrified at the
spectacle of merchant shipping carry
ing puns for its own defense. It is an
outrage of international moment that
they should try to inflict so much as
a scratch upon the rubmarines which
torpedo them and drown passengers
and crews and shell crowded lifeboats.
' Therefore Germany claims the right to
sink more Lusitanias on the ground
that they wickedly and feloniously
have taken measures to av-rt from
themselves the fate of the first."
The Westminster Gazette says:
"The German intimation about sub
TnarineR is, we imagine, put forward
at this momonl to convince the Gar
man public that nothing of any conse
quence has been conceded in the set
tlement with the Tnited Slates about
the Lusitania."
COMPLIANCE
WILSON LEAVES!;
I
I.
:
i.:-
i
i
Aboard Mayflower Chief Ex-
ecutive will Study Problem
of Garrison's Successor; Ac- j
companied by Bride. ; I ,
,
it. f- .
NINE HUNDRED
FOR SECLUDED
STUDY
:
t
ACCORD
, HONOR
WASHINGTON, Feb. 11. The pres
ident and Mrs. Wilson left on a cruise;
j down the Potomac on the naval yacht
j Mayflower, during which he will con
sider the selection of a successor to !
Garrison. He expects to return Sun
! day night or Monday morning. Ad
I visors said the president wanted to
I reach a decision quickly. Probably
I he will send his nomination to the
; senate early next week. It is unlikely
view board, and will emerge from the
recent stagnation much better and
richer than could have, been expected,
is ihe opinion of Rudolph ' Kuchler,
president of the State Taxpayers' As
socialion. nresident of the Farmers
Union of the Salt River Valley and 1 So Says Lansing in Statement i a successor to Assistant Secretary
for German Publication : Beck,nrIde win b tiame(l unt" the
Concerning U. S. Demands ."J TZtZTZLe of seJ
of Germany. Iretaries Lane and Houston and Coun-
' t selor Polk of the State Department j
CLIFTON, Feb. 11 Nine hun
dred employes of the Detroit
Copper Company of Morentl
quit when two unionists were
discharged on complaint pf two
non-union men who safd.tlvey .
had been threatened if they, en- :
tered the mines until they had
secured union cards.
The non-union men reported
the affair to the company super-
intendent who immediately ais-
charged the two alleged to have
made the threats. A delegation
from the union workmen called
upon the superintendent and
demanded reinstatement of the
discharged men. The demand
was refused and immediately '
the entire union force was call-
ed out , i
Desired Number of ' Recruits
May be Obtainable Under
Fending Legislation; Op
posing Elements Pacified.
I WASHINGTON, 'Feb. 11. A new
j note of harmony and co-operation .on
; national defense problems was struck
; in the House. Military Committee a a
, direct result or the resignation of
Secretary Garrison. It found expres
t sion in the adoption of a resolution
'declaring the committee's apprecla
j tlon of the confidence the President
had reposed in it and in the Senate
j committee as disclosed in his corres
I pondence with Secretary of War Gar
; rison. The non-partisan character feel-
Uig is emphasized by the fact that
1 the resolution was offered by Kahn
' of California, ranking Republican
member of the committee.
Members of both congressional com-
mittees declared the war secretary's
i withdrawal brought out sharply the
! President's desire that Congress
should work out its army problems In
, light of its own best judgment, U"-
spite his personal, preference for th
: continental army scheme advocated
; by Garrison and the war college. The
i next result they added was the clari
; fk-ation of the congressional atmos
; phere and assurance of support for
: LilU that will be drafted from ele
' nients on both sides that heretofore
s bad been counted against the fea
; sure.
In substance, it is believed, the bills
Honor Goes to Floyd Smith will represent an effort to make ef
Who Ascends 9.C00 Feet in I fwtive virtually all plans of the War
II. , IJJ.4,. ; Department with the exception of the
Huge Military Hyaroplane, ,Xr..al. . vational Guard
to be sought as a substitute for the
Continental Army plan. The House
bill Is expected to provide payment of
National Guardsmen ho comply with
all regulations laid down by Cougress
on a basis sufficiently liberal to in
sure recruiting of approximately 400.
t0 men, the ultimate size of the
'""i ALTITUDE. IRK
IS AGAIN
MB
Passengers Enjoy Trip.
one of the most prominent residents
of Maricopa county.
Kuchler, accompanied by Ii. M.
Fennemore, the attorney for the Tax
payers' Association and one of Phoe
nix's leading legal lights, is visiting
WASHINGTON. Feb. 11. The state- J More than twenty others have been
Bisbee for a couple of days. Both ment of Secretary Lansing secured by suggested to the president, including'
are enthusiatsic over business .pros-tne yvr0iff Bureau, a semi-official Ger-' forn,er Governors. Harmon. Walsh,
pects, generally, and of those in theirj ' j Colonel House, former Mayor Baker
AUSTRIA WILL
INVESTIGATE
ATTACK
SON DIEGO, Fet. 11. Floyd Smith,
an aeroplane company pilot, accompan
ied by two passengers, ascended 9000
feet in a huge military hydroplane at
North Island. This establishes a new
altitude record for a machine of this proposed Continental Army.
Jtype carrying three persons, according
I to aeronautical experts. The Bight
I was remarkable in a machine with pas
. sengers, fuel and oil weighing 31'0
pounds.
an altitude of 6.000 feet Smith
own section in particular.'
"The fanners of the Salt River Val
ley, under. the Roosevelt Irrigation
project," said Kuchler, "now know
Receives Infor
At
' was compelled to blanket bis radiat
'ors in order to prevent the water from .
freezing. Captain Cowan, head of thi
, United States Army Signal Corps Avi-,
aliop School, and representative of th
lAero Club of America, witnessed the
flight. He said the exact altitude will
I be determined tomorrow when the bari
BANDIT GARCIA
AT
ARRESTED
. 7 . . , ;of Cleveland, Senators btone, Cham-' iir i
German, declares, the United States ..,, n .. I Washington
asked nothing of Germany in the ! .. , matinn that A Mstrtan Renlv . be ralibrated.
. . . pocket a barograph which registered
mq presmeni hhiu i ur urair lo g eiTOllie note rtW-IU onftA .
ral other members of congress,
course or the Lusitania negotiation
exactly what they must pay for their, mcn couinn t wan nonor ana oignity 8 of naming B nlan already In touch j
lands. There are sevearl details to be jDP mnipiiea wnn. (with the military situation, who will ;
decided in the matter of payment but The statement was soueht a re
t ant certain the government willj'y o pn interview wih the German
make it so that the farmers will be j Imperial Chancellor widely published
able to handle their -liabilities in In the United States which contended
good shape. t . ; jt".nt to meet the requirements of the
"The land of ..the, valley is more j United State would imoose "impo'!-
ograph strapped to the machine could
Smith carried In his
To Fight Extradition Proceed
ings Started by Carranza
Consul; Bandit Had Escap
ed Capture by Troops.
DOUGLAS. Feb. 11. Colonel" Garcia
9000 feet.
Investigation of Matter. j It is expected the official barograph '
i wish ri v Ken ii. intima- - ni . ...,!iinn nr wn r in
immediately assume direction of the tjon9 naye reacnpd (ne sute of Smjth Thp reford
deoartment where Secretary Garrison, . ...,, nad declded , in- -in, tt,r n..nr t
L I vestigate the circumstances of the sub have been Sr.OO feet, held bv a Indon ;the bandit leader, who recently escap-
nnn !hiirrvTpneH marin UPn h American "viator. The machine which Smith ed capture by Carranza troops in the
person not et nubliclj mentioned. He er rtt te before , ,n t0 the T fl . fc , Sea.,lane in com-' . ' ' . - . ,rrM,
spetn several hours going over thei , . .. ., . . . . , . . Sahunpa district, Sonora. was arrest-
than worth several times what the;Mo humiliation" unon Germany. Ex-1 qualifications of men already mention-!"' ."7; "Jr ?1 ' c... 1 t Houglas charged with carrying
costt per acre, has-been placed at ipressions simi'ir tn Ianing's were ed. The-Cabinet met. but the Prest-.
The land can earn the charges. And.U'l tained from Chairman Stone of the 1 dent did not seek advice on the snb-'
furthermore, the people of the val'ey j Senefe Committee. Chairman Flood of i iect. After attending a dinner in
an explanation of the incident. ; built for the Second Aero Suuadron
Consequently the reply is not ex- of the army. It is equipped with a 125 concealed weapons. The de facto gov-
... I peeled for some time in the light of horsepower motor. ernment through Consul Lelevier iro
n's . , , ... . . .
are getting into the system more than tk House Foreign Affairs Committee
jand Vice-President Marshall.
I ,
ganizations of like character.
"With imnroved markftine
tions." said the visitor. "w hone to him to return to Ixlngton to resume
be able to supnlv all of the miring: practice of law.
they, were at first.
"Truck gardening is fast coming to
the ' front. I know, personally, of a
farmer In the vicinity of Glendale
who netted himself .about $200 per
acre from lettuce. This product was
crated and shipped out of the valley.7
The greatest problem facing the
farmers of Maricopa county, in the
opinion of Kuchler, is the market.lnf Arizona where row thousands of . for a time.
The mining camps in the state, of pounds of fresh produce are shtmpil
which there are many, demand fresh n wll. in tine, be hnvlnr from Phee
produce, and the big work of the pro-jnr nn( making of the SiH River vsl
ducers of the valley is to bet their. iey the biggest truck plant in the
products to market in the least pos; world."
sible time and in the best possible The Mornis. of several weVs ao.
shape. It Is that question which is declared the visitors, did rot hurt the
t a o.nariunca in the patp fit the An.
honor by Postmaster General Burleson ' . ,
vuilit, uridup ui iiic uiiii. uii j in iiiii-
I the president boarded the Mayflower.
I Beckinridge was at ths War depart-
ment a short time today. Later he
J left with his wife for a short stay at
condt-1 Jamestown Island. His friends expect
municaling with commanders of sub-
SURPASSES PYRAMIDS.
marines cruising in the Mediterranean NEW YOrk. Feb. 11. An ancient
.mediately began pn'parations to extra
dite Garcia. Although he did resist
'. arrest. Garcia says he will resist ex
tradition to Mexico. He feared he will
rom tne American viewpoint, aunm-j fortincation declared to be more re
ting the right of a submarine to halt markab,p from -n enirineerinix view-'
the Petrolite, even by force, if it per-, not,,. th.n the Pvraniids of Fsrvnt has fd in many of his countrymen visiting
be executed if returned to Mexico.
News of the arrest of Garcia result-
ramps of the sTite. Cochise cotmtv. I It is said that he might identify him
Gila county and. in fact, even- part i self with a national defense campaign
FOR SMUGGLING CHINESE.
receiving the attention not only of the
farmers but of the Producers' Asso
ciation of the valley, the Chamber of
Commerce of Thoenix and other or-
sisted in flight after warning, there is been discovered in the Andes, accord-1 tne i8'1 in an "'"mpt to see him. Me-
absolutely no warrant in international n(5 t0 t; yy. Honklll. a member of the; leans told the officers of numerous
law for action "requisitioning food", Yale Geographical Society expedition raids alleged to have been made upon
and other supplies from the ship. to pPru, wj,o has returned to the undefended Mexican towns by Garcir.
There is strong objection to the as- fnlted States. Honkill said the an h- of his holding residents for ran-
seition of right by the Austrian sub- eologists discovered apparent evidence som. Letter Hayniore made an affida-
n.arine commander to remove a mem- Df Dre-Aztec civilization whivh flour- vit detailing alleged treatment which
IX)S ANGELES. Feb. 11. Federal Der of 'h Tew of an American ship hed abmit the eighth century. Ex- Garcia accorded three Americans at
indictments charging smuggling of d01" ' the 'se r ,hc Proliie. ravations near Cuzco. Pern, reveale.1 their mining camp during a raid by the
Chinese Into the United States were j the fortifications. It is an enormous . bandit. Haymore said his brother and
returned against Arthur Smith and J.I PARIS. Feb. 11. It is estimated by edifice composed of stones weighing lwo companions were taken from their
II Murray of San Francisco, captured bc Geneva correspondent of the, thirty to forty tons, which had been camp by Garcia, beaten, robbed and
which in most cases was washed on recently by Immigration officers after, ' P" i"t me Austrian army now . f ranferred from a narry across tne. men una me .
hundred mile mito chase Both nre operating in Atoania consists oi no river and carried up the mountain- nnng squna. oui me were isier ir
Vallev. To the contrsrv the rich silt.
the anld. nets ss fertilier and aids i a
the farmers to a remarkable decree, said to have confessed.
more than lO.Oi'O men.
side.
leased.
