THE. -aiZON A RE PUBLI CAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
The Arizona
Republican,
Full
Leased Wire
A. P. Report
The 8un
Alwaya 8hina
Finest
Winter Climate
In the World
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNIN(i, FEBRUARY 12, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 269
LOCKED IN ROOM
IN FIGHT
. BLOODY BATTLE
Knives, Dentists' Instru
ments and Pistols Figure
jn Rattle Whi-di Contin
ues Until All Drop from
Exhaustion
IU7SINESS TROUBLES
(UVEX AS CAUSE
One Has Bullet Wound, An
other Throat Cut, Third
Knife Wound in Arm and
the Fourth Man Cut and
Dazed
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
ST. LOI'IS, Feb. 11 Locked in a
rcom on the sixth floor of a popular
downtown hotel here tonight, four
men fought with knives, dentists' in
struments and pistols until all were
too badly wounded to continue. The
battle was a sequel to business dif
ferences between two dentists
When the police and hotel guests
broke into the room, they found Dr
A. F. Johnson, a local dentist, un
conscious with a bullet wound in
the head; Di. Charles W. Kennerly
of San Antonio, Tex., with blood
(.niirinn fV.m a L-.Ofa r.mrl ; 1,:.. I
. . . . , i notes which have been handed to Am
arm; another man who had raster- L a(lor Gerard and AmbaS(i;ull)r ,.en.
ed as . K. Arnold of Mobile Ala.. I are received frora Uerin and vi.
Unconscious on the bed wth his a once the texts are before offi
throat cut. and Charles Lody. an as-cials u , believed the ,)0.sition
o"1 iu u. juuiison. clu, "inise J
ond dazed.
Late tonight Dr. Johnson was in j Only 18 days remain before Austrian
the operating room of the city hos-'and German submarine commanders
pital in a critical condition; Dr. Ken-I will start to put their new instructions
r.erly and his friend Arnold were ! into operation.
prisoner patients at the hospital, and The view of at least some of the rep
Lody was being thanked by friends j resentatives of the entente allies here
and relatives of Dr. Johnson for sav-iis that any change made in the rule
ing the hitter's life.
Lody and Kennerlv. the only two
of the foor able to talk, told conflict
ing s-lories. Lody said he and Dr.
Johnson had been lured to the room
by a fak request for professional j
.ervices and had been attacked by
Dr. Kennerly and Arnold. Dr. Ken
nerly admitted having business dif
ferences with Dr Johnson, his former
partner but said Johnson and Lody
were the first to attack.
The man whose throat is cut reg
istered at the hotel this morning as
'Mr. and JIu W. E. Arnold." This
tame man, according to Lody, called
t Dr. Johnson's office this morning,,. . ,'K .. ., j ... , , ,,
, . ...... , the views of the L nited States, should
i.nd after having his teeth cleaned.
- oj w
hotel tonight and treat "Mrs. Arnold.'
Hotel attacher said that they saw no
woman with "Arnold." In the be"d
of the room assigned to ' Arnold,"
lowever. two pillows were wrapped in
a sheet to give the appearance of
o. human form.
MIDSHIPMEN MAY RESIGN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb. 11. All of the
Jc? iritd'ihinmen at nnatioli who wprit
' i- . i i
they failed on their mid-season ex
amination, will he permitted to re-
sign, insieao. oi riawng uie o.oi ot
exouision irom me serwee againsi
their record. After approving the
academic board s recommendation
that the midshipmen be dismissed,
Secretary Daniel.- today wrote to Lap-
tain Kheile, supenntenuent oi tne
naal academy, authorizing him to
a"ce;it resignation.
o-
CONSULS WON'T SIT TOGETHER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I'OHTLAND, Ore., Feb. 11. Consular
representatives of belligerent countries
in Cortland have declined to sit togeth
er at a proposed international Wash
ington birthday bamiuet, sponsored by
the chamber of commerce, which was
to have been held in I'ortland, and as
a result the banquet has been canceled.
The chamber of commerce now has
proposed to hold two banquets, but the
consuls have frowned on this plan, too,
in view of the previous faux pas. The
consuls explained they could not ap-
'Wfw.iuiiv- uith roi.rosontutirps
of enemy countries.
i -
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN BERNARDINO. Cal.. Feb. 11.
ARMED WITH RIFLES READY TO
Details of the manner in which r-arp was cnosen to parley with the to new rains, tonigni, however, no
men armed with rifles prepared for a leaders of the attacking party, Rasor ' serrations at Oregon Citv are that the
night battle in 1910, for possession of testified. The light disappeared how- rise had ceas?d. The river in Portland
valuable potash claims at Searles ever, and the expected battle did not has reached a stage considered dan
Lake, was told today in the superior take place, although the men of the gerons by the weather bureau officials,
court by D. Rasor, an engineer I-ee party waited several hours, he The normal low water level is 28 feet
employed by H. E- l.ee, representing added. ' j jnd the river Is 20 feet above this
interests attempting to eject the Cal-1 Attorneys for the Trona company point. Merchandise from all the low
ifornia Trona Company from the land, declare that the testimony of Rasor. cr level docks has been removed and
The men under Lee, Wyatt Karp principal witness for the opposing some of the waterfront basements
and Rasor were ordered to lie in claimants will prove effective for have been flooded.
wait in the sage brush of the San their side, as he told of reeopying The Columbia river, whose conflu
Bernardino desert, ready to open fire locations previously made by the er.ce with the Willamette is twelve
on the men expected to appear to,Tro"a company, and described devel- miles below Portland is rising rapidly
contest claims filed by the Lee party, opment work that had been done, al- rj.se of S.7 feet having been reached
according to the testimony given by though he added that Lee told him !lt Th" Dalle and eight feet at Hood
llasor during his cross examination.
UNITED STATES SOON
CONFRONTED BY NEW
DIPLOMATIC PHASES
As Result of Unexpected In
tention of Germans and
Austrians to Treat Armed
Merchantmen as War
ships After February 29
WASHINGTON , Feb. 11. Diplo
matic negotiations of various character
soon will confront the I'nited States
as the result of the expected intention
of the German and Austrian govern
ments to treat armed merchantmen of
the entente allies as war vessel after
February 29.
Apparently it is certain, if the tern- i
per of the allied governments can be ; j-j
juageu ny me reelings ui men uipio
matic representatives here, that any
attempt by the United States to change
the present rule permitting the use of
American ports by merchant ships
armed for defensive purposes will be
met by a strong protest. Correspon
dence also is likely to follow if the
United Slates assumes a position
which coincides wilh that of Germany
and Austria regarding the right of sub
marines to sink armed ships without
warning.
On the other hand, the United States
itself may take the initiative, should
the entente allies impose a virtual
boycott on American ports in the event
of this government deciding that armed
merchant ships entering American wa
ters are ships of war, and therefore
subject to internment.
The definite altitude of the United
States toward the stated intention of
Germany and Austria will be deter-
of tniS guvernment quickly will be de-
I fined.
bearing on submarine warfare during
the war would be an unneutral act.
The governments are representing as
not being prepared to admit there has
been any change in the conditions of
naval warfare which would warrant
merchant snips armed lor aerensive
purposes being characterized as war
ships. In Teutonic quarters, however, it is
contended that merchant ships armed
for defensive purposes are really armed
for resistance and that merchant ships
I have no right to resist. Moreover, it is
(claimed by Germany that it is impossi
ble to adhere to the principle of warn-
they be armed; a single shell of small I
caliber being sufficient to sink anv
j submarine which mignt attempt to
warn such a vessel. n la admiUel
submarines have a right to stop every
icnemy armed merchantman,
j American officials seem inclined to
the view that the contentions of the
, German and Austrian governments are
well founded, and from several quar
ters today came the information that
the United States might warn its na
tionals to remain off merchant ships
that are armed. This, it was said in
'
j the German and Austrian govern
ments have beeo aiming to achieve.
The possibility of the entente allies
putting into effect a practical boycott
of American ports was widely dis-
, cussed in 0fficial cjrcies during the
day. u nas been intimated that tne
&nits miKht see fit to Iiermi, oniv a
sufficient number of their unarmed
i ships to enter American ports to take
t TrT""-" 1"! T -T -- ; :
PORTLAND FACTS DANCER OF
FLOOD FROM RISING RIVERS
PORTLAND, Ore., Feb. 11. The passage. The water was turbulent and
Willamette river has reached the 20 the vessels were shunted like drift
foot flood stage and is still rising. The wo"I "ntil caI,,M were "fun.
current has become violent and to- toats wer' unable to rescue the
night two river stenmers crashed into learners. Deep sea tugs were or
the Meei bricge known as the Har- dere(1 ,n ,ne S(ene- A fo naH ,,epn
rimaa bridge here. Both were dam-
imed.' The vessels had fought har-3
aeainyt the flood current in the river
but were unable to make the draw
U
As the men awaited to attack they
saw the lights of an automobile,
the Trona claims were invalid.
HOLDVALUABLE POTASH CLAIMS
-
CANDIDATES ARE PLEDGED
TO SUPPORT ROOSEVELT
I BOSTON, Feb. 11. Announce- j
i ment of the candidates of Graf- !
ton D. Gushing, Charles Sumner
i .Bird. A. P. Gardner, and Robert
M. Washburn for delegates-at-
large to the republican national
I convention, pledged to support
Theodore Roosevelt for the party
nomination for president, was I
! made tonight. Mr. Bird was the I
progressive candidate for gover-
I nor in two campaigns and last
I fail supported the republican
candidate, Governor McCall.
L
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
INDIANA, Pa., Feb. 11. Eighteen
men are reported to have been killed,
four others injured and about six more
entombed by an explosion of gas late
today in mine number 2 of the Jel'fer-
iaiiy at Ernest, six miles from here.
James McGuire. aged 30, one of the
rescuers Alio was overcome by gas
ami was brought here late tonight,
said that before l e left fifteen bodies
were brought to the surface. One body,
that of George Buntnn, Jr.. a min?
motorman, was recovered earlier. More
than one hundred rescuers are work
ing in relays in an effort to penetrate
the workings to reach the entombed
men.
Tw o additional bodies were recovered
shortly before midnight. Rescuers say
thai the condition of the air inside the
mine is very bad and very little hope
is held out for the entombed men.
The explosion occurred in an enttv
lust off the main entry of th mini I
More than 100 men were at work at
the time but all managed to escape
with the exception of thirty-seven
who were trapped by falling rock and
debiis. Rescue parties were organ
ized at onre and thirteen of this num
ber were brought to the surface sev
eral hours after the explosion. A num
ber were seriously hurt.
Later the body of George Bffnton Jrt
aged 2.", mine motorman, was recov
ered. Powder Lets Go.
NEW CASTLE. Del.. Feb. 11.- Six
hundred pounds of powder exploded in
a dry houso at the projectile plant of
the Bethlehem Steel company near
here tonight, injuring two workmen
and completely wrecking the building.
The cause of the explosion has not
been determined.
There was no one in the dry house
at the time, the injured men beinsr
emr.loyed in an adjoining building.
Se,-"ral nearby structures were slight
ly damaged. The force of the blast
was terrific and was felt for miles
around. The financial loss is trivial.
away merchandise and goods consigned
to themselves. It was admitted in. high
official quarters that should such a
plan be put into effect, action of some
kind might have to be taken
hanging over me river ail nay maKing
rescue work difficult. For a time
was tearea me oriage would lie en-
"lingered.
While- the. accident were the out-
standing ones due to the flood in the
i heart of Portland, other damage in
this vicinity is increasing. At Lents,
' a suburb, Johnson Creek has become
' so swollen that a number ot homes art
underwater and the mail is being de
livered in boats. More than 100 fam
ilies have been driven to higher re
fuie. While the Willamette above Port-
land was reported receding yesterday
a ris was reported again today due:
River i.1 the last 24 hours.
EIGHTEEN
REPORTED DEAD
IN CIS
HE
PAY TRIBUTE TO
B. T. WASHINGTON
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEV YOR.K. Feb. 11. Tribute to
the memory and achievements of the
late Booker T. Washington were paid
by leaders in negro educational work
at a memorial meeting held tonight at
Carnegie hall under the auspices of
Tuskegee Institute, which Dr. Wash
ington established, Hampton Institute
nial the National League on Urban
conditions among negroes. Seth Low,
former mayor of New York, presided.
Major Robert R. Moton, comman
dant of cadets at Hampton Institute,
and who has been elected to succeed
Dr. Washington as head of Tuskegee.
eulogized the late negro leader and
desriibed his labors fur the uplift of
his race.
chargeTgainst
state treasurer
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. PAUL, Feb. 11. Walter J.
Smith. Minnesota state treasurer, was
placed under surveillance at a Minne
apolis sanitarium tonight, following
his indictment by a county jury here
in connection with mishandling of
state funds. A warrant for his arrest,
it was said tonight, will be served as
soon as he is in condition to he re
moved to this city.
Three indictments charging Smith
with first degree grand larceny, were
returned late yesterday. R. c. Pickit,
former clerk of the state investment
board is under arrest on two indict
ments charging forgery in connection
with the same alleged irregularities.
All funds say to have been obtained
through forgery, aggregating more
than $2S,wi.i have been repaid.
SAY BOY AIDED IN
FATHER'S MURDER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
GREENVILLE. Pa.. Feb. 11 I. Fred
Christy, aged 17, son of John W.
Christy, wealthy farmer whose body
was found at the bottom of an aban
doned mine shaft near here last Tues
day and Fay Etzueiler. aged 20, were
arrested here today and charged with
the murder of Christy. According to
the authorities. Christy confessed his
part in the prime, saving he gave Etz
weiler $r0 to fire the shot which
caused his father's death. Robbery
was the motive for the crime, accord
ing to the police. After the boys had
been given hearing late today they
were hurriedly token from here to
Mercer. 20 miles' distant, owing to
fears of possible violence.
BIG FROST SEEN
ON PLANET MARS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FLAGSTAFF. Ariz.. Feb. 11. What
appears to be the first spring frost in
Mars for this sensnn has just been de
tected by the astronomers of the Lo
well observatory, in latitude 4 degrees
and longitude 2 83 degrees. The north
cap, it "elf. is in active process of melt
ing, a circular rift having appeared
half way thiough it which is widen
ing and which is connected with the
hor'lcr by ruui.il tributary rifts.
The cap is surrounded by a clear,
blue band unlike the tint of the vege
tative markings.
DEFENSE TESTIMONY
IN THE BEALE CASE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SANTA BARBARA. Feb. II. The
defense in the second John K. Bcale
estate contest, today introduced testi
mony to show that cordial relations
had existed between the man and wife
during the last years of his lifetime.
That Mr. I'eale was most active men
tally during the same period and long
after the questioned will was drawn.
was slated by a number of witnesses.
some of whom were not called at the
first trial.
The trial will be resumed Monday
and undoubtedly concluded in a few
da-.s.
BERKELEY WOMAN
D. A. R. REGENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PASADENA. Cal., Feb. 11. Mrs.
John Conant Lynch of Berkeley, was
elected today by a unanimous vote as
state regent ot the Daughter's of the
American Revolution at the annual
election which closed the two day oiin
fernce of that organization. Mrs. C.
C. Cottle of Los Angeles was selected
as state vice regent after a close' con
test fur the honor with Mrs. John
Hyde Rraly of Glendale.
INVESTIGATION OF
DAIRIES POSTPONED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.WASHINGTON, Feb. 1 1. Investiga
tion of the dairy industry was posi
tioned in a resolution introduced today
hy Iteptesentalive Linthicnm of Mary
land. A report of the bureau of ani
mal industry was quoted to show that
most of the dairies of the country
were unsanitary and their products,
unwholesome and a large percentage
of the dairy cattle were infected with
tuberculosis.
MORNINGSTAR RUNS 309
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN DIF.C.O, Calif., Feb. II. Ora C.
Morningstar, former world champion
at balkline billiards, tonight made a
run of 309 at 18. 2 balkline In an exhi
bition match with Ledyard Rlake,
crack amateur of New York, now a
student of aviation here. Tins run
was within three points of the world's
reVord. made hy Calvin Demarest in
Chicago in 1910.
THOUSAND CLIFTON
MINERS GO OUT ON
STRIKE
(Special to T'lie Republican)
CLIFTON, Ariz.. Feb. 11. Nearly
1.000 copper company employes
walked out at the plants of the De
troit Copper Company and the Shan
non Copper company in the Clifton
Morenci district today, causing a
complete shutdown of the smelter,
mills and mines of the Detroit, and
badly crippling the operations of the
Shannon whose
leacher is idle.
concentrator and
While not more
than liiu men in the employ of the the Ryerson shaft of the Detroit
Shannon are out, the closing down company and it is said the non-union
of the concentrator and leacher, if men, upon appearing there after be
continued any length of time will ne-'ing first ordered to secure union
cessltate the closing down of the j cards, were ordered away from the
entire plant or the substitution of an ' shaft.
entirely new force to operate them, j At the Shannon plant yesterday
The latest strike which has not yet seventy-five to one hundred men left
become general, but which is of such j the concentrator and leacher. The
proportions as to cause serious up- mines and smelter of the Shannon
prehension throughout the district, j company are-still running,
was precipitated when two union men j So far the walkout has not af
were discharged by the mine super- j fected the Arizona Copper company,
intendent of the Detroit Company on J The men say they are determined
complaint of two non-union miners j that the discharged men shall be
who claimed that the union men had reinstated before they will return to
threatened them w ith bodily harm if , work. There has been no disorder
they appealed at the mines again in the district because of this new
without first having secured union strike.
GARRISON GONE OFIGER PLEADS
MKS1L G1TUH
AGREE ON PUtN IFFICIEir
Both Houses Now United on
Preparedness Plans The
Hanking Member of Pe-
liblieans Offers Resolu
tion of Confidence
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Feb. 11. A new
note of harmony and co-operation on
r.ational defense problem was struck
in the house military committee today
as a direct result of the resignation of
Secretary Garrison of the war depart
ment. It found expression in the adopr
lion of a resolution declaring the com
mittee's appreciation of the confidence
President Wilson reposed in it and in
the senate committee, as disclosed in
his correspondence with Mr. Garrison.
The non-oartisan character of the
feeling was empnasized by the fact
that the resolution was offered by
Representative Kahn of California,
ranking republican member of the
committee.
Members of both the congressional
committees declared that the war sec
retary's withdrawal has brought out
sharply the president's desire th it
congiess should work out its army
problems in the light (,f its own best
judgment,- despite his personal pref
erence for the continental army
scheme advocated by Mr. Garrison and
the army war college. The net result.
they agreed, was a clarification of the
congressional atmosphere and the as
surance of support for the hills that
will be drafted from elements of both
ids that heretofore bad counted
against the measures.
Ir substance, it is believed, the bills
will represent an effort to make ef
fective virtually a'l of the plans of the
war department with the exception
that federalization of the national
guard will .be sought as a substitute
for the continental army plan.
Final steps toward beginning the
drafting of 'he measure were taken by
both house and senate committees to
day. Roth w ill take up the work M in
duy and it is planned to hold all day
sessions whenever the business of two
houses will permit. The house com
mittee brought to a close today public
hearings on army plans.
Present indications are that the
house bill will lay its stress upon pro
visions designed to federalize the ra
tional guard, while the senate commit
tee's main effort will go into the regu
lar army angles of preparedness plans.
The final measures sent to the presi
dent; for his signature will be a com
promise, it is thought, each house be
ing willing to accept the judgment of
the other t. a large extent In its own
particular field.
Tlie house bill, it is expected, will
provide for payment - of national
guatdsmen who comply with all regu
lations laid down by congress on a
basis sufficiently liberal to insure the
recruiting of approximately 400,000
men. the ultimate size of the proposed
continental army.
ROOSEVELT IS PREFERENCE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SPRINGFIELD. III., Feb. 11. Theo
dore Roosevelt was declared to be the
preference of three candidates for dele
gate to the republican national con
vention in petitions filed here today
with Secretary of State Lewis G. Ste
vens. Two of the 'men are from the
Eighteenth district, the home of "l"n
cle Joe" Cannon.
PROGRESSIVES REAFFIRM BELIEF
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MANCHESTER. N. 1L, Feb. 11.
The New Hampshire progressive com
mittee today reaffirmed belief in the
fundamental principles which caused
the break with the republican party in
1912. but expressed a readiness to
"subordinate mere partisan issues and
not to haggle over past grievances."
YESTERDA Y
cards. The men upon being dis
charged, reported to the executive
committee of the miners, and a dele
gation visited the superintendent de
manding the reinstatement of the
discharged employes. This demand
was refused and at 3 o'clock this af
ternoon about 300 men of the De
troit company walked out and an
nounced they would not return to
work until their companions had
been reinstated.
The original trouble occurred at
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO. Feb. 1 1. After
j Ensign Robert D. Kirkpatrick had
ple:id"d guiltv before a court martial
held here today on the battleship Ori
gon to charges of negligence and in
efficiency, which had been fiied to
determine responsibility for the loss j
of a battle signal code hook. from the
destroyer Hull last August. Lieutenant
Herbert A Jones, commanding the re
feerve torpedo division of the Pacific
fleet and commander of the Hull was
brought before the court on similar
barges. "
After hr-arinsr the testimony which
shove-l how the personal equation was
the wc,ak point in a carefully planned
rvvtem of safeguards, the court ad
journed anil wilt resume the-trial to
morrov morning.
Ensign Kirkpatrick testified to leav
ing the signal book on a trans.som in
the Hull's wardroom.
Ci. H. L Dolan. ranking riuartem is
ter. said thai he had seen the book
on the transom, that he knew it should
not have 1 c-n there and that he failed
to report -he matter to Lieutenant
Jones.
It developed in cross rxamioatVin
that one of Do'an's duties was to in
spect clocks, chronometers and signal
bioks every morning and to rin.'t
their condition to Lieutenant Jones at
noon every iiv.
It was S c'( lock a. m.. A'igiist 14
when Dolan said he sav h? signal
book out (f its proper plar-?. The
regulations require the book to lie
k pt in the ship's safe but on the
Hull, testimony revealed, there was
no room in the safe and it was kept
locked in what, before the navv went
try, lad tieer. the Hulls wine looker.
Dohin said that he saw" the book
lying in the transom, that neilher
.Tones nor Kirkpatrick were in the
wardroom and that he forgot .hat clay
to make his noon report to Lie- '.tenant
Jones. He testified also that Lieuten
ant Jones had taken no official notice
of his failure to report.
"If Lieutenant Jones had made in
quiry as to why you had made no
report." asked the judge advocate,
' would von have told him about fie
signal book and would that have pre
vented its loss?"
"Yes. sir." replied the witness.
SHAFROTH HAS AMENDMENT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, D. C. Feb. 11.
An amendment to the pending naval
appropriation bill providing that if
an international peace tribunal should
be preparing for the disarmament of
the navies of the world at the time
the bill became operative, battleship
building in this country should cease
was introduced in the senate today
by Senator Shafroth of Colorado.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 11. A tong
war in w hich four men were shot, one
fUallv, broke out in the Chinese nuar-
. . . . , ,
ter here tonight when, a gang of young
Chinese, members of the Suey Ong
Tong entered a Chinese theater and
forcibly took seats in which a num -
her of Suey Sing men were enjoying
,Ph?7''' , t.. .
The Suey Sing men went home and
got their guns with which they open-
ed fire on the Suey Ongs as the latter
emerged from the theater. One Suey
os man, known m the quarter as
Ill 11 !ij
D CHI
ill
1
MID PEEK
President Leaves on Week
End Cruise, During Which ,
Time He Will Consider
Names of Applicants; De
cision Coining Soon
SUCCESSOR MUST
BE WELL INFORMED
Prominent Democratic Poli
ticians from All Over the
Country Have Been Men
tioned as Succeeding to
the High Position
Reputlictn A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb. 1 1. President
Wilson left Washington tonight with
Mrs. Wilson for a week-end cruise
down the Potomac river and Chesa
peake bay on the naval yacht May
flower, during which he will consider
the selection of a successor to Lind
ley M. Garrison as secretary of war.
He expects to return late Sunday night
or early Monday morning.
H was said tonight by the president's
advisers that he wanted to reach a de
cision as quickly as possible and that
fie probably would be ready to send
the nomination to the senate early
next week. An assistant secretary to
succeed Henry Hreckenridge in all
likelihood will not be named until the
new secretary is consulted.
Secretary Lane of the interior, Sec
retary Houston of agriculture and
Frank L. Polk, counselor of the state
department, are understood to be un-
j der serious consideration, and the
names of twenty or more other men
have been suggested to the president.
These include former Governor Har
mon of Ohio, Colonel H. M. House, for
mer Governor Walsh of Massachusetts,
former Mayor I laker of Cleveland,
Senator Stone of Missouri, Senator
Chamberlain, chairman of the senate
military committee, and several other
members of congress.
The president is said to be desirous
of naming a man already in touch with
the military situation, who could take
tip immediately the direction of the .war
department where Mr. Garrison left off.
It is intimated by his friends, however,
that he may select some one not yet
mentioned publicly in connection with
the position.
The president spent several hours to
day in going over the qualifications of
various men suggested. A cabinet
meeting was held, but Mr. Wilson did
not seek advice on the subject there.
Tonight he attended a dinner given in
his honor by Postmaster General Bur
leson and immediately afterward
boarded the Mayflower.
Former Assistant Breckenridge was
at the war department for a short time
today and later left with his wife for
an indefinite stay at Jamestown Is
land, Ya. His friends expect him to re
turn to his home in Lexington, Ky., to
resume the practice of law. It was said
he might identify himself for a time
w ith the campaign for national defense.
C. C. Weybright of Alliance, O., who
served as adjutant general of the Ohio
National Guard under Governor Har
mon, has been suggested to the presi
dent for the assistant secretaryship.
o
TONG SHOOTING IN STOCKTON
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
STOCKTON, Cal., Feb. 11. Ah
Wing and Henry Lee, two Suey Sing
long men were arrested tonight Im
mediately after shooting a Suey Ong
tong man in the local oriental dis.
trict. A policeman saw the shots
fired and captured both gunmen be
fore they could escape. The Suey
lng man who was killed is said to
be the son of a prominent Chinese
merchant in Fresno hut as yet his
identification has not been confirmed.
o
FOR "WHITE SUPREMACY"
t
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SFLMA, Ala., Feb. 11. With the
motto of "home rule, states' rights
and white supremacy" the Alabama
anti-suffrage society was organized
here tonight. Miss Nellie Baker of
this citv was elected president. The
first action was to send a telegram
to the house judiciary committee at
Washington protesting against the
proposed constitutional amendment
enfranchising woman.
T
' Stumpey' 'was shot through the head
and will die. Leonard Tonsi of
Berl-;le' and Peter Milanovich, a re3
I !lpnt 0f the Vhins Quarter, innocent
' bystanders wvre wounded slightly In
; i.nets. '"" L
The" fighters dispersed when the
: oise of battle brought ou the police
j i)llt r, umed twenty minutes later in
another part of the quarter and in
lbe' -seron engagement Pang Sing.
also a Suey Ong, went down with a
1 uuet i his side
The police said tonight that thev
j ha,., the situat,on ,lm)er contro, an(J
belieed the war to be over.
RESULTS IN FOUR BEING 1
