1
I
f H
! TO KEEP IN TOUCH WITH CACHE ) jtmP at lf tf tf ""' ' -'' ' 1 H
VALLEY'S PROGRESS, SUBSCRIBE ! v ,sf .l - 4EIC . AV l I X . THE PROOF OF THE VALUE oSl .
FOR THE LOQAN REPUBLICAN, W , M 1 W ffj-flf fl OT M I T IT Mtlf ADVERTISING IN THE LOGAN RE-1 i
$3.00 PER YEAR BY MAIL; $3.50 fcJL I V rVllllII jftS If XP 1X1.1 1. I 1 v I I I I PUBLICAN LIES IN THE SUBSTAN 'f H
; PER YEAR BY CARRIER. " F 'T Xf M W ty . ty f.IJ 4 TIAL RETURNS WHICH COME TO". ! fl
I EIGHT PAQE8 LOQAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH SATURDAY FEBRUARY 12 1916 (H
I COMMERCIAL
7 CLUB INTEREST-
I ED INUBRARY
H At tho regular month'y meeting of
H tho directors of tho Commercial Club
H held Wednesday, February 9, Mayor
I P. A. Thatcher reported that he had
H been asked by Miss Mary E. Down
H Cy of tho State Board of Education
H to ask tho club to appoint a strong
H committee to tako tho inttlatlvo in
H tho matter of establishing' a public
H Carncglo library in Logan It was
B sentiment of tho mooting that tho
S time is ripe for tho erection of such
n building and it was decided that
H a commlttco of three bo appointed to
H mako n thorough canvass and nscer
H tain what tho sentiment is and In
H estlgato tho cost of tho building etc.
H and nil tho details, and roport back
H to the club.
H Tho following commlttco has been
H appointed: Joseph Qulnnoy Jr., chair.
H man; Dr. George Thomas and Dr.
H C. N. Jenson. This committee will
H Invite all tho civic clubs, organba-
H tlons and churches to meet with tho
I Cacho stake auxiliary organizations
H in tho tabernacle next Tuesday ove-
. ntng at which time Miss Downey
H will bo present to explain tho plan
I of tho library and offer suggestions.
I Logan is tho largest city in tho stato
H without 'a Carnegie library. Duo to
B the library in Frovo, tho children of
I tho public schools there nro getting
I much moro supplementary reading
than our children bcro. Tho library
H -v 111 bo of great assistance to tho
H school children especially.
H The matter of protecting tho isl
H and property from tho high waters
H that may come was discussed. i It
H was tho opinion of those present that
H this was a very important matter and
H it was decided that a-commlttco of
'three bo appointed to have general
,JL supervision in representing tho club
jK-a with reference to tho high water
T condition with tho idea of protecting
H the proportyy on tho Island. Tho
H following wore appointed to act ns
H the commlttco: George W. Skldmoro,
H chairman; M. S. Ecclos, and Olof
H Nelson. Yesterday tho commltteo
H examined tho dangerous places on
H tho bank of tho river and attended
H tho meeting held in tho Sovonth ward
H called for tho purposo of considering
the high water condition that may
H arise,
H Tho following wero elected as tho
H Nominating commltteo to nominate
H ten nominees, five of whom will bo
H elected at the annual meeting of tho
H club, March 15, to servo as directors
H for the term of five years: Olof Nol
H son, M. S. Ecclos and Jamos Lar
H son.
I A STRENUOUS
I WEEK FOR BOYS
I IN BASKETBALL
I Coach Bennlon to Bo Here to Play
H Coach Jensen's Men
Coach Bennlon and his basketball
H players from Bozcman are coming to
Play with tho Brigham Young Collego
next Wednesday night. Tho Montana
team claims to bo and to havo bcon
for a few years tho champions of tho
Westorn Btates. They aro out play
lng havoc with tho teams of tholr
I own stato and incidentally others
I they have met on their way. It will
to romomborod that the B. Y. C.
boys met this aggregation a yoar4ago
In Bozcman and wero defeated by a
I low score.
I Coach Jcnson's boys are pretty do
termlned to defeat tho Montanaltos
fVV ,h'8 t,n if it la. possible and they
jttm havo every confldenco that it ia, and
r -oust bo posstblei The B. Y. boys
P "will bo leading a prott- strenuous
tasketbali Ufa aUrlng the next threo
'weekR. Commencing with Bozoman
they have threegames within six
flays. Wednesday' night they play
"ozeman, Fridaylght the V. of U
nd tho noxt Tuesday night comos
ho game of ganfea wltht tho IT. A.
I 0.
t ia report'ed'that a recent straw
Tote of the faoulty of the U. A. C.
"-a for Dr. George Thomas for the
w President, vjhlle the same kind
a vote of the Student i body waa
trong for Dr, B. Q. Peterson. .
TAXPAYERS TO
INSIST ON LOW
TAX VALUATIONS
Resolutions Drafted In Support of
Assessor Upon His
Judgment
There was another big meeting of
taxpayers hold horo Thursday after
noon and this tlmo an Indignant pro
test was entered against tho State
Board of Equalization. When tho
Hoard was hero last, Chairman Bailey
nnnounced thnt whero assessors wil
fully under assessed property ho
would vote for Instituting suit on
their bonds for tho taxes lost In
that way. This wns construed by the
Cacho county taxpayers tobo an at
tempt at coercion upon the part of
tho Hoard nnd so n meeting was call
ed to protest. OUr Cronqulst presid
ed at the gathering and ho and sov
oral other speakers delivered fiery
addresses in which they doflod tho
stato board and pledged themselves
to stand behind tho assessor should
he bo sued. The state board pxpress
cd tho opinion '.hat $125 per acre was
a low assessment for tho best lands
In Cacho, but tho gathering today dls.
agreed with that ".lew assorting that
$125 Is top high a valuation. Flnnlly
a commltteo consisting of William
II. Thaln of Logan; P. W. Maughan,
of Wcllsvlllo; Olo II. Anderson ,ot
Hyrum; W. White of Paradise, nnd
J. W. Bowman of Lowlston, was
named to draft resolutions in regard
to tho matter. This commltteo ro
ported the following resolution which
was unanimously passed.
Resolution
Whereas, a palpable attempt has
been made by the Stato Board of
Equalization, to influence and warp
the Judgment of the county assessor,
aa to property valuations In this
county, and, T
Whereas, tho assessor of Cacho
county, having mado amplo Imcstl
gatlon as to assessments .aluatlons
In other counties of tho stato, with a
desire to seo that Cache county pays
its fair proportion of taxes, has con
structed n, schedule of valuations of
property, which wo bellovo to bo am
plo and fair when compared with
thoso used in other parts of the state
of Utah.
Therefore, be It resolved, that tho
taxpayers of Cacho county In mass
convention assembled, do endorse
the action of tho assessor In fixing
tho schedulo of valuations mentioned
before; and wo protest against tho
action of the Stato Board of EquolU
otlon in threatening to suo tho as
sessor on his bonds, In an endeavor
to coerce him into accepting Its
Judgment instead of relying upon its
own.
Wo respectfully suggest to the
county commissioners that thoy act
in concert with the assessor in ac
quiring further information as to
assessments in other counties of
Utah, to tho end that this county may
not bo required to pay more than its
Just proportion of tho state's expenses.
MILADY'S
BEAUTY PARLOR
Mrs. W. I. McNeil, wlfo of Dr.
McNJoi has decided to open a beauty
parlor in an office nlongslde that of
her husband's dental oinco on Main
street. Tho parlor is to bo known
as Milady's Beauty Parlor. Mrs. Mc
Niel will use the Burnham's method
which Is worked In most of the lead
ing beauty parlors In Chicago, also
with "Dr. E.. L. Layton, tho scalp
specialist, who has a number of
branch parlors in Lowlsvlllo, Kon
tucky; Dos Molno3, Iowa, Cleveland,
Ohio.
Mrs. McNloi haa been an operator
In one of the loading beauty parlors
In Chloago for seven yoars previous
to coming to Utah and as thero are
no such parlors In Logan It te
thought that there is a mighty good
oponlng here.
Electrical equipment has been pur
chased which will be, used In mas
saging and shampooing, and Mtlady'a
Beauty Parlor, will be headquarters
for a)l kinds Of hair BOPl. yl.
a halrdresBlng, -; ,-? .w jj.
KBa'AM: UNCOIL
HtQlteWEBRllAR.Y 12. l&OQ "
Solemn ind mirthful. itrona of l.er .nd J Without -Tin.t-nf. hesitation I place
' 'linb SSSSK.Vl9 Lincoln far above any other on your
Tender and iimple. too: he wa. so near , 7 MfKKf9m hinl"f fr above Hlsmarck, who
To all thinrf. human that he cast out ' W ' V created an empire: far above Gambetta.
. . '' Ill, M S A who saved a fallen people, or Naxzini,
And ever simpler. I.ke a tittle child. M WW who htiP' P new oul In another.
Lived In unconscious nearness unto ' -5M WW 0f ,he M"ui ". w transformed
wl i"" .1.. ii u .u , 1W 9QB$ KP5v ,om bermlt Islanders Into the present
Who always on earth . lit lie ones hath Ut HI, j-j , M) M , of A,iMic 4m, , Europe,n
.m.lcJ. -S. Weir Mitchell. Jl ' jLjkJm? M Pwer..-Whltelw R,id.
I am speaking on the occasion of jlrlF ; f M It took his countrymen full four
the celebration of the birthday of l-Aw - &Z - years to find Abrcham Lincoln out.
Abraham Lincoln and to men who I go w1k W . By the light of the campf ires of vie
count it their peculiar privilege ltf vJ' v 1 (l torious armies they learned to see
that they have the right 4o hold l IShSfeV the outline of his gigantic figure, to
Lincoln's memory dear and the VN fHBEr flkl assess the integrity of his character,
duty to strive to work along the U 7 XJ JSm I (o comPrcI-end he majesty of his
lines that he laid down. We can V jA 'JI JaDB I conscience, and, when at last they
pay most fitting homage to his B !!2bBm looked upon his careworn face as
memory by doing the tasks allotted vv Bt?j'Ef& ie na,'on reverently bore his body
to us in the spirit in which he did V?"' '.' Jwy ,0 we rave' trough their tears
the infinitely greater and more ter "mc N' r n. (hey saw him exalted above .all
rible tasks allotted to him. Theo- ; 'if. TMJTJ y, f?AK-? inrones in the affection of the hu-
dore Roosevelt. KihluuJObji m race-Jonafhan p. Dolliver.
EMPLOY MAN
IN PIECE GOODS
DEPARTMENT
O. A. Clessler, an export dry goods
man of wldo oxpcrlcnco has been
employed by the Howell Cardon Co.
to tako chargo of their piece goods
dopartment. Mr. Clessler is recent
ly from Lowlston, Montana, but has
bcon associated with somo of tho big
gest dry goods concerns of the coun
try and thoroughly understands his
business. It will bo something now
tor this section of tho stato to havo
a man in chargo of tho piece goods
dopartment.
Tho women are not accustomed to
have a man wait on them In tho han
ding out of pleco goods but n all of
tho largo towns a man Is In chargo
of this department, and after tho wo
men folks becomo accustomed to hav
ing a man wait on them, they prefor
to huvo him to lady clerks, ng ho
usually uses bettor Judgment.
Tho Howell Cardon Company havo
been looking for Just such a man as
Mr. Clessler for a long time, and
ns ho comos highly recommended,
wo nro sure that ho will mako a
valuable aiftet to this flourishing con.
corn.
ENTERTAIN 475
OLD PEOPLE AT
SMITHFIELD
Smlthflold1, Fob. 10. Tho First
ward reunion was hold here today.
It was a groat success, tho program
being excellent and handled by Mr.
It. V. Larson, in a wayt that kept
the crowd fn a good humor all day.
fPVt hundnd,and soventy-flvs people'
wero banqueted at tho Hlllyard hall
and tho day. ended with a. grand ball
In th'e evening. - t" , . -'
Mr. 'Josep'h Richardson lather of
Mayor' Richardson, is lyjng very ill
ftPlhla wrltng. " ' ,- ,,
i.fiVw(Coattawd M -rffpKht
STATE AUDITOR
EXPLAINS TO
MRJ.ARSEN
Schools Do Not Get Eighty-eight
Percent of All the Taxes, Say
Officials
I havo boon asked repeatedly to
make a statement for publication on
tho question of tho cost of education
In our county. It appeared to mo nd
vlsablo, unjder tho circumstances, to
nnswer inquiries on tho subject by
getting a direct opinion on tho mat
tcr from tho highest authority In tho
state and tho highest authority in tho
county. Accordingly, I addressed let
ters to tho state auditor and to tho
county auditor. Tho letters nnd their
answers follows. Thoy aro so clear
I seo no necessity for further com
ment. H. V. LAnSKN.
Logan, Jan. 18, 1910.
Mr. Lincoln Q. Kelly,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Dear Sir:
There Is a wldo divergency of
opinion among tho citizens of Cacho
county as to tho meaning of the
much discussed statement that "88
per cent of tho stato taxes Is spent
for education."
The first party maintains that tho
statomont means that 83 per cent of
all taxes paid to tho county treasur
er goes for education,
Tho second party believes that tho
statement means that 8S per cent of
tho 8 mill state tax goes for educa
tion. Which party Is In tho right?
In viow of tho many tlmos you
have explained this matter I have
hcsltatod In making the abovo re
quest but a direct answer to the
abovo question win be lappreclated
by many people In Cache county.
Yours respectfully,
It. V. LAnSON.
State of Utah, Office of
Lincoln O. Kelly, Stato Auditor
Salt Lako City.
11 " Jan. 24, 1916.'
Mr. R. Vf'Laraon,
,. ' Logan, Utah. v-
Dear-8t;r: iir,JiI-vi.j; toi
t
ELDER PALMER
PARTY ON
TUESDAY EVE,
Tho following program will bo ren
dered Tuesday evening In tho Sixth
ward hall in honor of Klder Valen
tino Palmer who win shortly leave
for a mission to Japan:
Prelude James I.tndford
Solo Rachel Pcdorson
Cornet Solo Storm McDonald,
Reading Lydla Hansen
Solo Frank Woolloy
Comic Reading J. C. Allen
Piano Solo Ellen Nielsen
Talk Valontlno Palmer
Violin Solo Prof. Honry Otto
Tho program will start promptly
nt 8 o'clock and It will bo followed
by a donco which will commenco at
9 o'clock. Tho commlttco In chargo
oxtends an Invitation, not only to
members of tho ward, but to all of
rider Palmer's friends.
DRY-CLEANERS!
MOVING INTO
INEWIQUARTERS
Tho Logan Cleaning and Tailoring
Co. with Gus Carras and Carl Farns
worth as proprietors, will bo located
at 20 West First North Street on
Monday, whero thoy will contlnuo to
tako orders for now suits, dry-cleaning
and pressing. AS formally, they
will call for and dellvor suits of
clothos and guarantoo a first class
Job nt minimum prices. They are
moving Into tho building which Is be
ing vacated by the Utah-Idaho Build-;
lng Company. Adv..
i
I am in -receipt of your letter of
January, 18, 1910, In which -you In
quire Just what ia meant by the
statement that 88 per cent of the
state's taxes la opended for educa)
I ' U ati. ,
WContlnuod. on psfo two).
r-uuHlfct-IMTH YEAR H
loiNANCES TO 1 II
BE PASSED BY ' j
NEWTON BOARD ' ' I
Now ton, Feb. II. At the regular H
meeting of tho city fathers held on :H
Saturday February C, a pllo of bust- j H
uesn wns transacted which win mean f , H
much to tho welfare of our town. '
Questions relating to tho Improve H
ment of tho water system and Its use J
woro thrashed out, M
Tho resignation of Itulon Itlgby as ' H
town mnrshall wns nccoptcd. Tho ' M
now man who will wonr tho star for I .' H
tho coming year will bo Mr. Sydney ,.
Alvls. i B
Secrnl new ordinances rolntlvo to I H
matters of ltnl intorost woro paBs jH
cd and will presently comu forth In , B
tho form or n proclamation from j H
Mayor Hallard. Thoy will appoar In J , '
tho columns of this paper as soon 'i'H
an formally adopted. -;
BASKETBALL I
GAMES PLAYED j I
ATMENDON I
Mcndon, Feb. 10. -Tho basketball f- b B
gamo played Inst Friday night be j( M
tween tho Mendon Mutual tcam-and- , 'j! '.M
a. team from Now ton, resulted in I '-
big victory for tho Mondon boys. ! JI
Tho flnnl scoro was 18 to 40, in our J :' f S
favor. Wo havo two ball teams here, 'lijriifl
ono tho M. I. A. team, and tho town . 'Nrf
team. Thoso playing In tho M. I. ! l 'J
A. tenm aro: Clifford Watklns, Al- ) ''&
ma Baker, Owen Hardman, Kd Wat- i j
kins, Jcsso Walker. In tho town team ' i iM
aro: Rcovcs Bird, Mahonrl Richards, j : H
Plorco Hardman, Dlmcr Pall, Earl K I l S
Bird. lfi'.',B
Tho M. I, A. Lenp year dance oh 'ill ,
Friday was a grand success.. Thp ;iU' H
girls certainly knowr how to show tho j H
boys a good tlmo. I tM
Thoro was n missionary .farewoll MrM
party given Saturday night for Math p t j jl
ow Bird who loft for a mission Jo Ijj j H
tho Central States. At 7 o'clock tho ll' l
following program was ronderod: lI''E'H
Singing by tho Choir U '" S
Prayer Ii ! i ;fl
Speech of WclcomcBp. M. D. Bird i 1' H
Piano Solo Mrs. Alma;Baker fil kdH
Recitation Llzzlo"" Barrett j'L I TB
Vocal Solo Mrs. Facer j '
Speech Mathow Bird ll'fl
Mandolin nnd Guitar Selection.... t I
H. B. Whltnoy and J. A. Gardner P II
Singing , ri 1ml
Benediction t V . -' KH M B
After tho program tho remainder of Hittlkfl
tho ovonlng was spont in dancing. jljjjl '
Brother Bird left Monday '"morning jJj
for his mission and wo wish him sue ijllllf' .' I
coss. Is nillcijl
Tho meeting Sunday evening was mfiffit'B
occupied by the Mutuals, tho follow fc!lf
lng program being rendered: ffill'
Story Mrs, Gcorgo Oardnor iflill'ffl
Quartet.... C. C. Wntklns and Co. IjillB
Story Mrs. Laura Hardman wilnit'l
Vocal Solo Mrs, Facer wl'IftiB
Mr. and Mrs. J. II. Watklns of ffij 1
Brigham spent a fow dayB visiting In tgl WM
Mondon. 4 Bnl
Tho Mendon Dramatic Company Af H3
nrp rehearsing a show which thoy W 1 BJi
expect to play In tho near future. '?iPI
Miss Vera Baker Is homo again af Jti
ter an extended visit to Pocatcllo, w J! ffi
visiting her sister. $U I irfi
Tho party Tuesday ovonlng given MJlM
by tho Dramatic company was a IB f I
grand success. Tho early part of tho ali It
evening was spent In dancing nnd n Ii K
music, also an Improm program. At. it K
11 o'clock an elaborato supper was W I IB
sorvfid and then dancing was enjoyed 'Uij S
until a lato hour. i 1! W,
Mrs. J. A. Gardner entertained - 'wfyhV
tho Oloria Fo Club on Wednesday. 'bUJ
Tho basketball team went to Field S ', m
lng on Saturday and camo out vie Mill
torious In tho game which was playod. . 1 B
between Fielding and Mendou. M j M
Mrs. Bert Hendorsen of Clifton, Is lv
visiting wth her paronta Mr. and n
Mra.Chrtstlan Boronsen. , allal
Tho baskotball gamo botweon the n jf
Mondon and Fielding teams, Wcdnos- f IwL
day Might resulted in a victory tot . m jjW
tho Mendon team. The final score XM Vm
wa '62 to 32 In our favor. We cor- ' t ' wl
talnly have, a splendid ball team hore-' ' XtlSj
thoy have Men every game thattfie-r? 1 t ' aHH
hare playe'd tlils aeasoii.Vrhee yif. 0-,- 4 i 19
adanco after the gamel":.' . r j2 io' aajt km
