STHE DONAI9 SONVILLE § IEF. R
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper =Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLV. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1916. NUMBER 28.
iBRILL.IANT STAR TO SHINE.
En ony Wehlen Featured in Five-Part
'Poduction of "Tables Turned."
,ni y ie' len: the hrilliant little
t.,e l.t.1r. who created the leading
,i,{ro ,e,!-e in "The Merry Widow,"
"The I) ollar Princess," and other big
suce.sses in London and New York,
will be steen at the (;rand iTheatre to
mni, row in "Tl'ables 'Turnel." an iin
Iensely interestint' tive-part photo
dlamia by Rolfe Photo Ilays, Inc., for
relea:se on the Metro Progra m. Mis,
WVehlen will be supporte)d !yv a cast
of unusual excellence,. 1.t1dii:' H.
Cooper Cliffe, the noted Ei . L i:!; dra
matic actor.
h'fTables Turned" tells the ft..-. l
:ot ry:
toward Sherlbrooke, a wealthy so
nior at a law university, is infatuated
with Ethel Stratton, a beautiful girl
who is a favorite with the students.
Dick Leslie, his chum, is also in love
with her. Dick is from the west,
working his way through college. and
Howard has assisted him financially.
1Howard does not know of I)ick's love
for Ethel. After graduation, l1oward,
whose interest in Ethel has riplened(
into love, realizes that his family and
social friends will not tolerate her as
his wife. He plans a mock marriage,
intending to take her to New York
with him. He tells Dick of this pro
posed arrangement, and asks him to
get someone to impersonate a minis
ter for the ceremony. D)ick veils his
indignation, but agrees to carry out
the plan. Inste:al, he engages a real
minister, who marries Ethel and HIow
ard. Dick wishes them well and leaves
SCENE FROM "TABLES TURKED,' AT THE GRAND, TOMORROW
for the west to practice law.
The couple live happily in a Brooklyn
flat for several months, when How
ard receives a letter from his father
stating that he is planning for his son
to marry Beatrice Ford, daughter of
his friend, Rai. olph Ford, a multi
millionaire. He addls that Ir1. Ford
intends making Howard head of the
law department in his firm. H!oward
realizes he must break off his affair
with Ethel. IIe tells her lie is not
married to her. and that he imu:t
leave to marry a girl of his own :aste'.
Broken hearted, Elhel informs him shit
is soon to become a mother. Howard
blames the mock nmarriage on DI)k,
and leaves.
Ethel writes a scathing letter to
Dick. Dick hurries east :andii liids the
minister who perfornied ilthe coe
miony. It is the morning of the Sher
brooke-Ford wedding. Ethel goes to
the church, and as she starts to de
nounce her husband during the cere
mony, falls in a swoon and is carried
into the vestry. DIick and the minister
arrive at the church, but the guests,
are leaving. Ethel comes out of the
church alone and meets Dick, who
tells her she is really married to How
ard. Accompanied by the minister
they hurry to the Ford home, where
they convince Mr. Ford his son is a
gigamist. Mr. Ford, in a rage, de
clares lie will send his son to prison.
Horrified at the prospect of a prison
term and the attending disgrace, How
ard goes into the library, where a
flash from a pistol shot records his un
happy end. A few months later Ethel
and Dick are married and g;o west to
make their home.
Famous Collection of Jewels in New
Lasky Production.
When "The Marriage of Kitty."
with Miss Fannie Ward as the star, is
presented at the Grand Theatre on
Friday, Feb. 18, photoplaygoers will
see one of the most famous collec
tions of jewels in the world. They
are the personal property of Miss
Fannie Ward, internationally famous
as a comedienne, and who makes her
debut as a photodrama star in thisx
comedy.
Following her start on the Ameri
can tage, Miss Ward, in the height of
her popularity several years ago, went
to London ad .thece she invested
thousands of dollaus in acquirinl' a
collection of jewelsi- which. txsc;pt
when exhibited privately by the :.et
ress seldom is seen. Ii '"lhe ri.
age of Kitty" Miss \Warid wear.s l.me
of her famous gems.
The part of Kitty which the star
plays suits Miss Waird iperfectiv. She
is a self-relia:nt young :ameiician girl
who married an Enlish l . t hat' he
may legally ltini a fo'rtulle left uin
der certain conditions. It is riaot,.e
that the couple are to Ie ,ivo ed,i
but Kitty hasn't the least it .. of.
losing such anll oppo1tuiiv d,ite
many obstacles iii ber wayv
_ . Coming Attractions.
bd SOiv k t i x
the short Ikford, the world-wide fay
Will be ara rnount's latest release,
- -u, will he the offering att
"Pa" Grand Monday Feb 141. "1 ittle
al" was recently shown at the Cr'es
cent Theatre in New Orleans for a
week' , ,
SWOn ' Blanche
Sweectl v .{ .,
detectiv, . ' "" :
Ma'gareL .
i;·:: ·\ 7'
"\ BUTT ERFLY UN THE WHEEL."
Holbrook Elina and' Vivian Martin
Co- .a red in World Film.
", he t! i 'ii ~ . L photoplay,
If l. e : o; t h. heel," bi ased on
the .:tag platy of the same nalme
h w::s a remarkable success at
r,, e:i: peentation a few years
:., -.ho. e .: at the Gem Theatre
c ,,ib o, Alina, one of the most
m l_,,' .ic as he is as:;uredly one ,t the
g ifted motion picture artists in
the world, plays the lead in the drama,
r.i Vivian Martin is opposite iim.
It would be diffllicult to conceive of a
n:,o,,e striking hero and heroine in a
inat,o. picture than these two favor
ite players, who have won for them
;e1bes warm places in the affections
of motion picture theatre goers.
1Vith Mr. Blinn and Miss Martin in
tle picture there are also such fine
:artitists as George Ralph, June Elvidge
and John Hines, thus making the cast
of principles exceptionally strong and
attractive. Miss Martin and Miss
Llvidge are two of the most beautiful
women now appearing in pictures.
The story concerns itself with the
,'atrimonial adventures of a success
ful business man and his young wife,
Peggy. who after the honeymoon be
oames unhappy because hubby ne
:iects her. And in that mood she is
ready to listen to the pleadings of a
friend of her husband, who wants her
to elope with him.
BUi, notwithstanding the equivocal
owsition in which she is placed, Peggy
l oyal to her husband. Still you
cannot play with fire and remain un
HENRY WALTHIALL i'" GHOSTS"'
FLVE PART MUTUAL MASTERPICTURE.
PIRODUCED DY MAJESTIC
GEM THEATRE, TODAY, FEB. 12
hurt; and if you touch pitch you are
IMlund to be defiled.
The result of Peggy being fre
qlently seen in comprpmising cir
utnmst:nc:es with Collingwood, the
lover, is that her husband divorces
her. But a reconiiliation is effected
between them. Before this consum
mation is reached, however, there are
many striking happenings in this
photoplay which, among other sensa
tions, has a terrible and terrifying
theatre fire scene that provides the
mov ie fan with a real thrill.
Lel The Chief print your station
ery.
" IOLROOI BLINN
S"A` BUTT.RFLY
ON THE WHEELN
T GEM THEATRE, TOMORROW, SUNDAY, FEB. 13
Three Points
of Superiority
Just one trial of the NEW POST TOASTIES, made in our spotless'pure
food factories, reveals their pronounced superiority. A distinguishing char
acteristic being the presence of tiny litte puffs on each delicately toasted flake. -
First, a splendid new flavour is dervelcped in the NEW POST TOASTIES;
the full, true flavour of the corn, not found in other corn flakes.
Second, they have a body and firmness that prevents softening in cream
and provides a nourishing, satisfying $reakfast dish that one can chew,
though deliciously tender and crisp.
And third, the NEW POST TOAS TIES do not waste in the package
thi ough crumbling, like ordinary flakes. o
Thousands of housew-ies have "discovered" these new and decidedly bet
tei corn flakesrto the open delight of husbands and children. o
The NEW Toasties are crisper and :daintier than common corn flakes, with
better flavour, better body, and added dconomy.
Packed in paraffine-sealed cartons to preserve the delicious oven-crisp
ness until opened at your table. .....
And remember-they're called
New Post Toasties
Sold by Grocers everywhere.
Spelling Test For Schools.
It may interest teachers to see the
following 70-word test. used in the
schools of Illinois, and they may like
to try it on their pupils. It is being
used in New Orleans:
Second grade-Foot, get, for, horse,
cut, well, name, room, left, with.
Third grade - Fill, point, ready,
state, almost, high, event, done, pass,
Tuesday.
Fourth grade-Forty, rate, children,
prison, title, getting, need, throw,
feel, speak.
Fifth grade-Several, leaving, pub
lish, o'clock, running, known, secure,
wait, manner, flight.
Sixth grade-Decide, general, man
ner, too, automobile, victim, hospital,
neither, toward, business.
Seventh grade-District, consider
ation, athletic, distinguish, evidence,
conference, amendment, liquor, ex
perience, receive.
Eighth grade - Petrified, tariff,
emergency, corporation, convenience,
receipt, cordially, discussion, appre
ciate, decision.
Hardon Grant and Mrs. Annie
Smith, of Burnside, were married
here Friday, Feb. 4, Judge Edmuna
Maurin officiating, in the presence of
a number of friends. The ceremony
took place in the office of the clerk of
court. Mrs. Smith is an extensive
land owner in the rear of Burnside.
It is to everybody's interest to pa
tronize home industries. No com
munity can succeed where this policy
is not carried out. Keep your money
at home by buying at home.
RELIEF IN SIGHT AT LAST.
Congress to Make Investigation of
Subject of Flood Control.
Last week, upon the initiative of
-Speaker Clark, the house of repre
sentatives authorized the appointment
of a standing committee on flood con
trol. The purpose of the committee
is to make a painstaking scientific in
vestigation of the whole subject of
flood control, vitalizing a movement
that has been agitated in congress for
several years for co-ordination of
forces that have had to do with in
ternal waterways, floods and kindred
subjects.
The need of such a scientific in
vestigation was set forth by Speaker
Clark himself in advocating the
adoption of the resolution. "Whether
we may procure flood control by the
construction of reservoirs or by side
canals or in any other way I do not
know," he said, "but I do know that
last year there was destroyed by
floods in Kansas, Missouri, Illinois
and Iowa alone $100,000,000 worth
of property and I judge enough in
the United States to pay the entire
national debt. If it can be stopped
this committee should find out how
to do it. The scheme is broader than
the improvement of the Mississippi.
It applies to all other rivers as well."
People who live in the districts af
fected will not accuse Speaker Clark
of exaggeration. These enormous
losses, not only of property but of life
as well, have gone on year after year
unchecked, while the United States
had its "fine eyes fixed on Boorio
boola-Gha," like the lady in Bleak
House. We have given millions for
the Philippines, more millions to im
prove the islands and educate their
people, and millions again for the
erection of permanent improvements,
and all the time people have been
d ying and property has been devas
t..oed year by year by the uncontroll
ei Mississippi. We have spent the
., alth of a nation in digging out and
I !asting out the Panama canal, as a
free gift to the world, with the
homes and lives of our own people
yearly endangered.
Within the past ten days, Presi
dent Wilson has toured the mid-west
ern states to advocate the new na
tional policy of "preparedness," the
immediate cost of which is staggering
and the ultimate cost beyond esti
mate; and in order to do this he had
to cross and re-cross several states.
in which the tributaries of the Missis
C'skare already levying their annual
popu nd emptying their waters to
dustEd terror and havoc in the southi
If preparedness for possible
but now unforeseen war is important,
why is not preparedness to save a
rich section of country from certain
annual loss just as important and
necessary?
Yet, every effort to meet the flood
problem in an understanding way and
with sufficient means, is assailed by
the cry of "pork barrel." Even the
adoption of the resolution was op
posed by a pin-headed congressman
from Wisconsin upon the ground that
should the new committee succeed in
finding a plan to stop this annual de
struction of life and property, what
ever plan they proposed would be
"likely to afford an avenue to re
claim private lands along the Missis
sippi at public expense."
In the formation of the new caon
mittee, Louisiana, the constant and
inevitable victim of dl,,,se annual
floods, whose resources are atretched
to the breaking point every year to
keep the flood waters of other s rates
off of her rich alluvial lands, was
given representation in the person of
Representative Riley J. Wilson of the
fifth congressional district. Let us
hope the naming of this corxmittee
will prove the forerunner of an in
telligent plan for the control of the
floods which annually devastate the
richest section of the continent.
Lake Charles American-Press.
BIBLE CLASS ORGANIZED.
New Religious Movement Auspiciously
Launched at Vacherie.
One of the recent happy social
events in our neighboring territory
was a Sunday School banquet given
Friday night of last week in the Y.
M. C. A. social rooms at Vacherie.
About forty men were in attendance,
and the ladies of the community serv
ed them a sumptuous lunch of vari
ous salads and varieties of cake, with
coffee. Excellent addresses were de
livered by O. B. Webb, of New Or
leans, H. L. Baker, of Plattenville,
and Messrs. Smith and Champion, of
Burton. Mr. Smith as president and
Mr. Champion as teacher, were of a
party of five members of the Burton
Bible class who motored to Vacherie
for the occasion.
At the conclusion of the addresses
a men's Bible class was organized,
with the following officers: Verne
Da.is, sawyer for the Vacherie Lum
ber Co., president; E. A. Thibodeaux,
chief engineer, chairman of the mem
bership committee; W. B. Fisher,
shipping clerk, chairman of the so
cial committee; Jack Donohoe, yard
foreman, chairman of the devotional
committee; H. L. Stroup, lumber gra
der, secretary; J. P. Burton, T. & P.
railroad agent, treasurer; Dr. W. F.
Bolton, teacher; J. G. Suttles, Y. M.
C. A. secretary, assistant teacher.
The class chose 7 o'clock Sunday
evening as the hour for its Bible study
d levotional meetings, and started
I, [ith a great deal of enthusiasm,
. officer taking hold of his work
with a determination to succeed.
If you buy out of town, and we
buy out of town, and all our neigh
bors buy out of town, what in thun
der will become of our to *?
The htinting season will come to a
close next Tuesday, the 15th inst.
Felix Fortier Earns Honors as Mu
sician in New Orleans.
Since the introduction of full or
chestra music., as an accompaniment
to the photodramatle performances in
two of the leading theatres here, an
adequate recognition of the very great
improvement which this feature
makes in the entertainment has been
accorded by the public. It is an es
tablished scientific fact that light
travels in waves and thus registers
impressions in the human eye just as
sound waves travel and register vibra
tions on the ear. Harmonious sounds
are soothing and it may be that there
are instances wherein they have pre
vented murder, jtst as discordant
sounds have times without number
suggested the .deplorable, but occa
sionally justifiable- apt. Harmonious
sounds are conducive to pleasant men
tal pictures. Harmodious light waves
produce pleasant oetular pictures.
This fact contributes to the success
ful projection of motion pictures. It
is apparent therefore that a combina
tion of sympathetic light and sound
waves will accentuate the delightful
qualities of each other. That is why
appropriate music adds so much to the
enjoyment of high class photoplays.
Artistry in the one complements the
artistry in the other and the specta
tor is correspondingly pleased. Fre
quently a simple snatch of music
from some popular song will convey a
clearer understanding of a pl!otoplay
situation than a laborious subtitle
would be able to do, and at all times
the suggestive influence of music is a
most valuable adjunct to the enter
tainment. Everybody knows this with
out the necessity of an explanation
here, and the only excuse for the at
tempt to make an -elanation is that
everything that is delt gtful and beau
tiful in the world, e~ept a woman,
is easy to understand and is subject
to simple but none the less inviolate
natural laws.
That is why a musical program in
connection with a 'motion picture
adds so much to the: spectator's eh
tertainmnent. That; is why audiences
in the theatres where orchestras play
a carefully selected 'program, sit
through a two-hour perormnance with
out becoming weary and express won
der that the time has apparently pass
ed so quickly, and that is one of the
reasons 'why these audiences seek out
the same houses agai t when they
want to ;see a photod~aia. Well se
lected music lifts the. ation picture
from a show to an entertainment and
the people are rapidly recognizing the
fact.
There are few iations to the
ber of the orEhestra at the Triangle
Theatre has demonistrated this. He
is Felix Fortier, and he plays the
traps. He is an observing musician
and is gifted with great adaptability.
Nothing on the screen escapes him
and it is a very didficult situation for
which he cannot produce an entirely
distinctive sound without for an in
stant breaking the "rythm of the or
chestral selection. If an actor knocks
at a door in the picture, the traps ac- C
company the action with the sound. b
If the door blows open, the traps make n
the wind whistle into the rqom. In ix
animal pictures the roosters crow, the st
pigs grunt and the geese honk. Not ai
the slightest detail of the action es
capes him, and for every little move- fi
ment on the screen Felix gives a a,
whistle of its own. He has put more p,
life and fun into a lot of the Key- ,
stone comedies that have been shown
at the Triangle than the man who di- y
rected them did, and he has made R
work on the traps a feature of every p]
entertainment. Whatever may be the D
profession, the man who is an artist L
in it is worthy of distinction, and tk
Fortier has surely won distinction as T
a motion picture musician and that, 9
too, among a company of musicians ft
who play delightful music.-Times- p,
Picayune, Feb. 6. st
The talented young musician re- ti
ferred to in the foregoing is an As
cension boy, the son of Mr. and Mrs. C
Felix Fortier, Sr., of Faubourg la B
Pipe. He has been a member of the ol
orchestra of the Louisiana Theatre in n!
Baton Rouge for some time .past, and B
his playing there made such a hit cl
that his employer, Ernst Boehringer, m
upon assuming the management of
the Triangle Theatre in New Orileans, W
transferred Mr. Fortier to the latter P
playhouse, where, his work has al- P
ready begun to attract attention and
earn for him such complimentary Ni
comments as that reproduced here- h
'with. Accompanying the article, S
which appeared on the page of the c
Times-Picayune devoted to news of
photoplays and players, was an ex- S
cellent picture of Mr. Fortier. t
POINTS THE WAY.
The Statement of This Belle Rose
Resident Will Interest Our Readers.
Our neighboring town. Belle Rose, I
points the way in the vords of one of I
its most respected residents:
D. S. LeBlanc, justice of the peace,
Belle Rose, La., says: "I was in a I
pretty bad way with kidney disease.
Sometimes the kidney secretions were I
unnatural and irregular in passage. 4
My back was stiff and painful. I had
dizzy spells also. The uric acid filled I
my system and my left arm became
so stiff I couldn't move it. I used
many different remedies, but without
avail. Doan's Kidney Pills, however,
helped me from the first. They 1
strengthened my kidneys, and remov
ed, the pain in my . back. The
rheumatic pains in my arms and
shoulder gradually left me. I have
been well now for .a long time, al
though I occasionally take a box of
Dean's iKdney Pills, as a preven
tive."
Price 50 cents at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy-get
Doan's Kidney Pills-the same- that
Justice LeBlanc had. Foster-Milburn
.Co., Props., Buffalo, N. Y,--(Adv.)
Tell 'em you saw it in The Chief.
SWINE SALE SUCCESSFUL.
Evan McCall's Duroc Bring Top
Prices at Baton Rouge Auction.
By H. J. SEIFERTH in Times-Picayune.
The Louisiana Swine Breeders' As
sociation had Saturday to itself in the
State University's farmers' short
course, holding an all-day auction sale
of Louisiana bred swine, and the an
nual banquet and meeting at night
with President I. S. West and Prof.
E. L. Jordan, secretary of the organi
zation and organizer of the annual
sale plan, doing the honors.
There were ninety-three swine sent
to the sale, and but for the limited
number of buyers who came it would
have been a great success, for there
were several features of immense
value. The benefici ries were the
buyers, for they got bargains in fine
foundation stock. The breeders were
game and did not withdraw a single
offering, so it was the largest sale
ever held in the south. The average
was reduced by the young boars, for
which there is yet no wide market,
and the prices reached such a low
level toward the end that George W.
Bolds, of Plaquemine, donated two to
the Protestant Orphan Asylum and
the Associated Charities of Baton
Rouge.
The total proceeds of the sale were
$2521, and the average was $27.70.
The breeders played the patriotic
part, taking the sacrifices with good
grace, and charging the difference be
tween receipts and costs to their ad
vertising accounts. They consider
that they have distributed their breeds
in a large way, all over the state, and
that the new herds will encourage
others and win honors at the local
fairs, which will increase their busi
ness in the future.
The consignees were Evan J. Mc
Call, of Evan Hall; George W. Bolds,
of Plaquemine,r the Utility Stock
Farm, of Mound; W. R. Dodson and
Sons, and Maurice J. Mayer, of Baton
Rouge, and Dodge & Sundbery, of
Napoleonville, representing the Du
roc-Jersey breeders; Garig & Jordan,
of Baton Rouge, and the Robeson
Stock Farm, of Shreveport, the
Berkshire breeders;' Putnam & Nor
man, of Kleinpeter, the big-boned
Poland Chinas, and John H. Cocker
ham, of Natchitoches, the Hampshire
breeders.
Not only were the Duroc men in
the majority, but they hld the big
gest buyers as well, which fact recon
ciled the breeders of that strain. The
first hog offered was one of McCall's
Defender sows, and she was sold to F.
A. Godchaux, of Abbeville, for $32.
50. The Duroc sale also was topped
by McC.al, bec useJ, i w!a. generous
Defenders, the sow that won first at
the Mississippi state fair, and she
went to S. I. Reymond, of Baton
Rouge, for the top sdw price of $92.
50.
The Berkshires, like the others,
went far too cheaply, arc4 even the
boar, Governor of Louisiana, could
not attract more than a $14-bid.
The Hampshires went begging, be
ing a new breed in the state, but
Cockerham challenged the other
breeders to contest for the future, an
nouncing that there would be $2000
in Hampshire premiums at the next
state fair, the largest sum offered by
any breed at any southern event.
Oscar Geren brought some of his
finest Poland China stock to the sale,
and earned more distinction than
profit. The parchases showed that
several very inriTportant breeders will
take up the industry, notably Geo.
W. Garig, president of the Baton
Rouge fair. Mr. Garig paid the top
price of the sale, $135, for Louisiana
Defender. the boar second only to
Louisiana Joe, and $142.50 for two of
the sows. A yearling boar went to
Thomas N. Samuels, of Irene, for
$54, and the sow of Louisiana De
fender, for $37.50, to Allen Mehle, of
Port Hudson. The Bogue Chitto
stock farm, of Isabel, paid $72.50 for
the remaining sow, and is the first of
the breed there.
The leading buyers of Durocs were
Charles F. Buck, of Welsh; H. S.
Burrows, of Lecompte; W. Vaughn,
of Houma; V. M. Knox, C. H. Schex
nayder, Floyd W. Spencer and J. R.
Bailey, of Baton Rouge; F. A. God
chaux, of Abbeville, and A. J. All
man, of Opelousas.
The Utility stock farm is the Max
well & Yerger concern in Madison
parish, and it made an excellent im
pression at its maiden sale.
All interests agreed that the sale
would develop into an annual rally of
highest importance. Professors Kerr,
Staples and others helped in the suc
cess.
At the meeting Saturday night, the
Swine Breeders' Association elected
the following officers: Oscar P.
Geren, of New Orleans, president;
Evan J. McCall, of Evan Hall, vice
president; Dr. E. L. Jordan, State
University, secretary; Maurice Mayer,
Baton Rouge, treasurer; Dr. L. E.
Mirgan, Baton Rouge, auditor; A. J.
Huffman, Mound; George W. Bolds,
Plaquemine, and I. S. West, Baton
rouge, directors.
The next meeting will be at the ,
Bolds farm on the third Thursday in
April. It was decided to perpetuate
the annual short course sales and add
others. A committee was named to
study the marketing problem, and in
duce ice plants to add curing faoil
ities.
The Louisiana sugar crop of 1915
fell to the lowest level in over a quar
r ter of a century. With the Texas crop
and a small amount of cane sugar
produced in Arizona, the total for the
I southern cane district is not expected
Sto amount to hnore than 133,000 -
A drouth during the earlier pt.
F the growing season, a destructive
- icane over a part of the Louisiana
cane belt, and a reservation by the
t planters of an extra amount of cane
t for the next crop were factors operat
t ing to reduce the final yield.
Keep in touch with civic and school
affairs by subscribing to The Chief.
Only $2 per year, $1 for six months.
