''rrr
v
TEE FEOCBIE RECORD
1 !
it
1
3 :
ESTABLISHED SEP'T 17, 1870.
PIOCHE, NEVADA, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY, 12, 1916.
VOLUME XLVt: NUMBER 22,
Passes k United States Senate
Pittman
IS 1
State Library
Homestead Bill
Judge Horsey Is Strongly Urged By Democrats To Run For Congress
IV
.The following Is the bill introduced
in the United States senate by Sena
tor Plttman and which . passed the
senate and is now in the house. We
are In receiptor a letter from the
senateor. in which he urges that the
DeoDle of Ntevada use all possblie in
fluence on the members of the low-
. . - Will o tia'
er nouse to voie ior wie ". "w
!sajs that the bill is being bUtel.
fjueht by certain Interests: I
A Bill authorizing the secretary oi
the interior to designate teertair,
cfts it land in the State of
Nevada upon which continuous
-residence shall not be required
under the homestead laws. '
'Tie It enacted by the senate and
act to provide for an enlarged home
stead, approved -February y nineteenth,
nineteen hundred iand " nine, do net
have upon them sufficient, supply of
water suitable f Dr domestic .purposes
as would make continuous residence
upon the lands possible,' he may. in
his discretion, '.deslgnat-such tracts
of -land, not s to exceede in aggregate
two million acres, and thereafter they
shall be subject to -entry -binder -this
act without the necessity of res
idence; provided, that in such event
tue entryman on any sufrh entry-shall
in good faith cultivate not less than
oneHeight of the entire 'area of the
entry during the second year, one
fourth during the third year and. one .
tta.., f nnrnpn tat Ives of the Unit half during the fourth and fifih year
ed -States of -America in Congress as- after the date of such entry, and that
sembled That 'whenever the sec- after entry and until final, propf the
retary of -the Interior shall find that
any tracts of land in the State o
entryman shall reside within such 1
distance of said land as will enable i
Nevada subject to entry under thti him to successfully farm 'same.
State Aid For Good
Roads Now Prospective
Whether Nevada wll adept the plan lUMPf DOnMKK Til
of, UfUWU 1 1 HWI'IIUUU IV
; :
Km,
Orders Arrive To
Close California-Nevada
PIOCHE PACIFIC LINE
WILL BE OPEN SUNDAY
Tho mana-oment cf the Ploche
Patif.c ruiuau caaipaiy has had 5
force of about 15 men employed shov
eling su-w out on the road the most
of this week and It Is expected that
tho line will be open to Jack Rabbit
tomorrow night
Prince Con. Shipments
The ore shipments from the Prince
Consolidated this week amounted to
7;t cars, or about 2220 tons.
Panaca
BE PLEASANT AFFAIR
in vogue '. in a number cf sates
giving state aid to counties in order
to -entourage highway building is a
question that may ' be presented to
the legislature a year hence, provided to be given at the
the constitution, amendment now next Mpnd eVe.
pending -which provides , for Inereas- be a most pleaaant
tne the state debt is .approved -by Aa
. , , t. . , affair, inasmuch as he proceeds
the -people at the next general elec- , . . . . r r-
tlon That the;proposed amendment the event are to. be-turned in
wiS carry Is quite likely:- asUhe to the fund being ralsedby thenar
limit which it fixes wlllst'll remain ent-Teachers' association for the ben
very 'low ; when compared i to the efit cf the . public schools, the pu
axable Tvealth of the state. and with pHs of the eighth ; grade, 'as well as
,( (be increased ldebt-creat1ng'"f power t&ose of other grades have been
Which ' it will give the ' state.V it is working hard to sell -ticke.s -and
JUDGE CHAS. LEE HORSEY
Pioche Judge will Be
Judge Horsey leaves today for Las innAnTinmir.T nr
not improbable a program" of fperma-' the Record has been A informed thai Vegas on court matters and early in jf f UtyiLn Ul
nint lmprovcinencs wiu toiiuw.i -a numoer ot citizens nave repouueu 1 tne coming wees wm move on 10
At the "time 'the Nevada ; consutu-. loyally to help out In this way attend the meetine of the Demo-
Won was adopted, it carried a provis
ion 1 that the state debt should uevur
exceed the sum of -$300;000 exclu
bfre f interest, and this provision
has never been changed, although
the limit is very small . compared to
the borrowing capacity i- of f other
most worthy cause.
cratic state central committee to be
STATE SCHOOL MONEY
The following is the apportionment
Tho lariioo nf tho Pnrant.Tpaf hsr'
association -are to bercommended 4or MeW at Reuo on the 19th inst. The
their untiring labor in the n-1 judge will represent the Lincoln coun 1
deavor to establish in tne pumic fy committeemen, W. is. urr. j. L,ess' f tat ninnv fnr thft nublic schools
schools of Ploche -a. manual Dentin and A. V. Lee, at the meeting vt Llltc0ln c0Unty amounting to 4,-
.u.7 " e -'uuse naving Proves 01 luwq.,,.-. ... ,,p(, t . th rounty
and domestic science
states 1 ana muncipauties. To: remove for the, boys and girls. While the Lsnmniittemn . . I
10018 .That Judge ' Horsey's. name will be money apportionea ior tne same pur
lt l presented to - the Democratic con-' pose, amounting to $8,580.15, makes
this' disability the: legislature of 1913, (novation is nothing new in schools
01 oiner parts . 01 tne country, 11 1 Dre8ented
aputpved an amendment to the constitution--.
providing : that the state
debt shoulJ ""eyer exceed one : per
cent of the stats-, .total assessed
valuation and this amwftdment, was
rattfisd by. 1 the - legislature 1915,
aindi Sext' tall it will be submitted
to, ; th voters ot the state for final
approval or rejection. -There is every
Indication, that , it will meet with
the general Indorsement, .as the ..bor
rowing-capacity .of the state has
been insufficient for; many years, in
the opinion cf many people.. , -
As the fatal assessed valuation of
the state will be approximately $173:
000,000 next .year. Its borrowing ca
pacity will be increased from $300,000
to $t,730,000 in case the amendment
carries, and this would, give the, state
substantial assistance to the various
counties for . permanent road work..
"I have not given the matter- seri
ous attention," said . Gov. Boyle in
discussing the question "but undoubt
edly Nevada should move along pro
gressive lines In the matter of
highway building. If a proper plan
,tan 'be ..worked out, "by -which, thei
state can, through 1 a competent
board of highway commissioners, - ap
propriatei a certain sum of money to
supplement money appropriated by
counties, the portion to 1 be definite-
is f new here and consequently the ,n,HnnV; for th nnmintin fnr nn
ladles who have taken the inltla-i I Muo. rtlir aoama -imn. artnintv
tive .in thetmaqter- have found - It He ;has received many : letters from
BP-hll work to convince some parents Varl0U8 paTt8 of the Btate urglng
of Uhis most important part In tha Mm to make race for c011gresa a8
educational 1 training. of their childrei ,le l9 looked up0n by many Demo-
ment is one of progress and the work L,tM than .n. nth nmnnM tn
which has been done by those of thd KavAaa fnr onntrraaafnan
Parents-Teachers, association, only
goes to prove that if all parents who
have children in the schools would
f In - event that Judge Harsey en
ters the congressional arena, Dis
trict Attorney W. E. Orr will likely
nmte with the teachers much greater ho : ru,ia tn t,,
sey on the bench of the Tenth Ju
dicial District court.
Calne In The Ra.ce
making advancement.
1he Record is Informed that the
ladles now .have, 'about $100 in 1 the
fund mentioned and it is hoped that
the returns from next -Mondays r rnin nr tniir ,m n,a
dance1 with f that to be realised 'from Democratic nomination for congress.
reiresuuieuis will , give - tue -asBOCia- Aslda frnm Jnrt? Hnrev nt thla rliu.
tlon sufficient money to purchase the trict.' he is tre only man that, has1
uuuai uiiuiyiueui. u is uiiuersiuoa ,ben serlouslv mentlnnort a ft rnh.
tWat is is , planned to turn ' the fund ableD candidate for th honor. Mr.
over. to the board of trustees - to - be calne Is a lawver. a fnrmPr nartnpr
used for na other purpose than that in the Henderson firm of Elko. He
8 Se 3 district attorney of Elko county.
ine tauies nave arranged 10 Berve
the refreshments in the lower room I DEMOCRATS FAIL
of the Miners Union hall and mem- TO AGREE AT RENO
toers of the Kewple Klub have ' kind
ly donated the use of this room, as 1 A sppcial to the Carson News from
well as the dishes and other eqnlp- II Reno says
makes
a total of $13,577.20:
Alamo, .. ..$396.76.
Bullionville 142.24
Callente 572.2.
Camp Valley 139.73
Clover Valley 159.79
Deerlodge, 139.73
Delamar, .. .. , 134.70
Eagle Valley. 167.3
Plat Nose .. 139.73
Highland, .'. 154.77
Hiko, .. , 159.78
Kiernan, .. , .'. .. 152.27,
Panaca 757.11
Pioch'e 787.23,
Prince. 154.73
Red Rocb 134.70
Richard 157.28
Rose Valley 147.26
Spring Valley, . . - 144.74
Winze, Creek .. 139.73
Geyser,' 142.2
V
Total $4,997.11
In the list showing the first install
mnet of county money published in
It has happened again. That is,
orders have come to shut down oper
ations at the Consllidated California
Nevada "company on the old Day-Bristol
property at Bristol and the order
has gone into effect." Everybody who
has been on the pay roll except
Boies Rawlins, the assayer, who has
been appointed (custodian of the
property has been dismissed. Just
why this action has been taken by
the "powers that be" will probably
develop later. The physical conditions
at the mine have ndver been so
good as they are at the present time;
the bins at each end of the tramway
as well as every nook and corner In
the mine is chock full of ore and
from Superintendent George E. Bent,
the Record has learned that the
IPANACA, Nev., Feb. 10th, Chester bins contain at least 1500 tons of
Lee returned from Goodsprings Sat- ore which will net the company $23
urday, after an absence of about two per ton.
weeks. Putting this into plain figures
John Nelson, Ell Edwards, Ernest means that this represents an asset
Wadsworth. Chas Hansen and Hose of $34,500 and this Is riot counting
Edwards went out in the mountains the tonnage broken and developed
Tuesday to ride for cattle.. - In the mine.
George Syphus and B. Shat2 went The management has met with bad
to Pioche on! business Tuesday re- luck of late on account of the storms
turning the following Thursday. which blocked the Ploche Pacific
Harvey Edwards went up to the railroad with snow and as a result,
Prirfce mine Tuesday with beef. the Icompany has not been able to
Wm. Heaps, Amos Phillips and Al- market its product. Having a lot
len Wadsworth went out in the moun- of old debts to clear up from previ
tains to be gone three, or. four -days oub operations amounting to between -chopping
pickets. : ' 1 1 50,000 and $60,000, the elements
! John Wedge returned to his home have worked an extreme hardship;
in Alamo Wednesday after attend- particularly now that the creditors
lng the commissioners meeting in afe demanding the cold cash, storm
Ploche on Saturday. or ho storm, blockade or no block
Mrs. A. L. Stewart and children, ade. However, one thing seems cer-,
and her mother-in-law came down tain; with the mine looking as well
from Ploche Monday, to visit a as it does, the metal market at
few days with Mrs. Stewarts par- high altitude and mining conditions
cnts, Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Wedge. in general looking better than they
Chas., Lawrence Lee and Vernon have for many a day, the property
Wadsworth came in from Frieburg will not be inactive long. Some one
Friday where they have been for is going to get Into the saddle and
about two months. it Is. understood the Columbia Trust
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. Pace. Mr. and company of Salt Lake, which holds
Mrs. Frank Pace and Elliot Lee all the outstanding claims, has indl-
were upfromCaliente and Grant Wul- cftted that if the cash Is forth-
fensteln and Mr. and Mrs. John Aus- earning by the, 15th' inst that the
tin were down from Ploche, Thurs- padlock will be unlocked,
day to attend the Quackenbush fu- Mr. Bent left for Salt Lake Thurs-
ueral. 1 day afternoon to confer with associ-
The monthly M, I. A. social will ates and it is expected that somej
be held Friday evening Feb. 11th, favorable news relative to the fu-
at the home of Miss Margaret Math- tune of, tha mine in the big Brlstolf
ews.i Ice cream and cake will bf 1 camp will come out In a few days.
served. I : The employees of the company
i 1 I have come In; some will seekk m-
Rebc Mathews Appointed ployment In other mines in the cam
0 others have already departed for
SheTlff I)an J. Ronnow has appoint outside districts.
ed Rex Mathews to the position of
deputy sheriff, succeeding C. P.
Christensen at Callente. He entered
upon his duties on the 1st -nst.
BILLS ALLOWED
Con. NevaMali Mill
Abuot 100 men are at work on
the Consolidated Nevada-Utah mill
and the fine weather of the past
week has enabled the workmen to
make splendid headway with con
struction. The concrete laying
By Board of Highway Commlsslon-
etrs Feb. 5, 1916
M. Griffith, work on Piotehe streets.
$6.00. ' ;
Hodges-Cook Merc. Co., powder
used on Panaca road, $15.50.
Mrs. Geo. V. Warren, land for road
in Meadow Valley Wash. $10.00. 1
Weather Man Getting Good
The weather dutlng the past week
is has been clear and pleasant . and the
practically finished and the first of snow melting rapidly. It will
the frame work for the building was be a matter of only a few days un-
put in place early In the week. tne roaos win be m conuuion;
Takinir- advantaen of the fine auiuuiuuue iraiuc agaiu.
days Sup't Van Wagenen is pushing
work at every angle and at the
present rate of progress the plant,
should be ready for commission about
April first.
REPUBLICAN STATE
COMMITTEE TO MEET
The county commissioners met last
Saturday in regular session with all
last week's lssn nf tha Pewirrt th members present.
amount set aside for the Pioche dis- A Ltt
linger ot Ursine? was received in;
.rf was iimuvenanuy omiuea. rne whlcll he asked premi9sion to change
county apportionment to the Pioche
district was $1439.72; this added to
ly and iquitably -fixed by the Iegis- ment 'belonging to; them for this par-1 "The Democratic executive com- the state's share in support of the
lature, and all road work done under
this arrangement, supervised and di
rected by the state itself, to be of
'permanent character , all to b4
part of an intelligent, - comprehensive
system, it would meet with my
approval." J
"Last .year while the, legislature
was in session, a number of goo4
roads advocates discussed the advis
ability of going to Carson City Wt
Interest that body in legislation look
ing toward a comprehensive plan of
highway building, but the matter
ticular occasion. There will be a! mlttee met, yesterday and deadlocked local" school brings the t:tal for the
pleasant surprise in ' store for those1 1 as to what recommendation to make
who attend this function and the re- to the state -central committee as
freshment committee has. not been a- the method tt chooslag delegates to
sleep. Special pains will be taken to the members appear to f aver the
decorate the ball -elaborately and in convention, while others are in favor
keeping with the season. as the of the delegates being uppolntde y
dance will fall on St. Valeutine s I tbe state central committt'e.
day. : 1 : i 1 rlf The members of the committee
will hold another meetine next
Ploche district up to $2226.95.
- '
LAS VEGAS TO HAVE
JURY OF WOMEN
. THe Coney Island is the name ot I Sunday when te question will again
a new saloon opened by Joe Powers be thrashed out
last Thursday evening with the us
ual "Dig feed" customary upon 'such I Mrs. F. 'C Pace of Callente is!
never got beyond tie stage of prelim- occasions. Ernie Fenner is chief the guest of Pioche relatives for
toary discussion." Oaaette. mixologist. a few days. , j : !;! Liilf llfflfl
George Sanford, state chairman of
the Republican State Central com
mittee, is mailing out the notices to
the members of the committee, noti
fying them of the meeting which will
be held February 26th, 1916. at the
Golden hotel at Reno. Carson Appeal.
the county road around his farm ini
Sjpring Valley, the road tq
traversed in going and coming from
Camp Valley, Permission was grant
ed with the udnerstanding that the
new road, is to be placed In as good
condition as the one to be abandoned.
Application for the appointment of
county health officer were received
from Drs. Stockham, Campbell and
Duckworth. Dr. Campbell was ap
pointed at a salary of $25 per month.
The contract for the care of county
indigents was let to T. O. Duck
worth at the Tate of $23 per month
for one or more patients and $5 per
Ten women are among those sub
poenaed as jurors to serve in the
justice court on the trial of the
Richard Busteed case next Tuesday,
This will be the first tim in this)
county where women havei been
called to serve their country In this
manner. We expect to see the entire
feminine body politic in court all the minimum lamount.
day . Tuesday. -Age. 1 : 1 . jj The only othef bid received was rangement.
from Dr. Stockham, the latters bid
making a minimum price of $25 per
month.
The contract for feeding the county
prisoners was let to Mrs. Alex Orr
of the Alexander hotel at 50 cents;
per meal.
The matter of raising the bounty
on coyotes scalps to $1 came up for
consideration and an order was made
to that effect; but on condition that
every other county in.' the state
does lekewlse. Meanwhile, the in-
creased - bounty will not be made;
month for each county patient above, not until the boarJ is advised that
nil counties have agreed to the ai
P.
it1'
r
!(
'A
i
M3
i7
1-
r
7E
g.'itO
W Mi
111 1; ,V ff '
"'Ml
i" 'v,,tV
1
I
