The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. FRANCISVILLE, WEST FELICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1I lat1 NUMIER E
THE MOGUL TRACTOR
eganastwred by IntetrnthaIel Wervset. Co.
Orand Prize Winner at Sen Fran~r se Exposition.
$6T5 Cash, f. o. b. Chicago.
CHAS WEYDERT.
Live Well During 1916.
You can live both well and cheaply if .you
get the habit of buying your groceries and
delicacia at this More. Our stock comprise
the choicet of the market in every line,
and our prics are backed up by value.
GEO. RETTIG
" -"_"-__: - - -:- --2 - - 2 _-'"_ .: - - - "_ - : - .::-- ,. _-:2 I
936h Safety Virit Drug Store.. ra
oi
J. s B. Mc(IF EE (16-1913) tI
ta
fi4
J. B. MthEdEn (1836-1913) th
We stalnd upon lwy the t hreshold of a new year, to bring, O
Our be trust, harder woherk than ever with its attendant mauling. thll
th
is perfect and EALTn an admirable home. th
SUCCES LtEIS IN MUTUAL .SERVICE. h
J. S. MeGEHEE - - Laurel Hill, La.
-.
COAL! COALI
When in need of Coal
that will burn, ring
Telephone No. I. 'r
Prompt delivery.
I - I -ll -- ---- -- - -- I.ll
& ar
Bayou Sara Ice
Coal Works.
.th
THE HOG LAW AND
THE COST OF FENCES
tfly G. E. NePss, Supt. lave Stoek
Extension iervice. L. S. t.)
The coast atof fencing against hoes
running at large is attracting con
"iderable attention from farm owters.
Very few men who own their farms
have less than 40 acres. and when such
farm lies in the form of a sixteenth
section one-fourth of a mile square, it
will require one mile of tence to en
ltose it. A good hog fence that will
also turn cattle and horses, usually
conists of posts set at Intervals of
about one rod i1l4ft.) with 24. to 60.
inch hog wire at the bottom and one to
Ihree strands of barbed wire at the top.
The coot will vary with the quality of
materials used, but assuming that the
posts are cut on the farm, hauled, set
and the wie wire stretched by farm labor,
at a cost of 10 cents per post, the cost I
of,the fence would be about as follows:
380 posts at 10 cents each, In
. elud erection...........$ 3.00
12o rods of hog wire at 0ec rod. 6,00 L
2 miles (2 strands) barbed wire
at $15 per mile....... . 4 00
("net of hog.proof fence per mile. $16.00
The cost will vary from about $140
to $165 per mile, and will probably
average about $150 for a good tenre.
s fi the barbed wire be omitted at the i
top and wide-woven wire tight enough a
to keep out hogs and high enough to ie
turn rattle and horses be used, it will a
cent from $200 to $275 per mile.)
Where hogs do not run at large and 01
it is only necessary to fence against b
horses and cattle, a four.wire tenee a
will serve every purpose, and would be
. cost about as follows: ci
¶20 posts at 10 cents eah, In. a1
eluding ereotion.........$ 2.00 A
4 miles (4 strandls) barbed wire l
at $18 per mile......... 4 .00 t
Cost of four wire horse and - mI
cattle fence...............80. e w
8aving over hog-proof fence -.- -. a
per mile ..,........ $..... . 3 W
As the cost for posts and lab to
would be less for the erection of a four. in
wire than foe the hog proof type, $N56 s
per mile would be a fair average east.
urom these calculations it can be C'(
readily seen that the necessity for 8&
fencing against hogs doubles the cost Ia
of farm fence. This oast alils heaviest ml
on the small farmer and decreases as on
the sise of the farm Increases, At the all
above rates it would cost about $a.1$l of
per acre for a 40acre farm, and 6e ea
tier arre for a square section of 140 of
arens enclosed in a hog-proof fence. bli
The four-wire fenew would cost $2 per
acre for the 40-acre farm and 60 rents
for the 340-acre farm.
These facts Indicate that the ques
tion of a law prohibiting hogs from
running at largep i no longer a politital an
question, but one of farm economy, and fat
affects the small farmer much more an
than it does the lae plantalton owner. sul
In order to fad the comparative cost oie
to farmre for fentaing asainaest hogs bt
running at large. go to the tax records.
find out the number and the value of tee
the hogs In the parish, estimate the 1
nutmber of miles of fend6e required to the
keep them out of the farms. multiply slo
'his by $72.00 and it may be found that be
the excess cost of the fenes Is greater ea
than the value of the hop. If seuh istr,
the asse, the farm owners cotld better the
afford to buy up the hogs and destroy if
them than to keep on paying omat money hii
to fen'ce against them.
The farmer of to-day is devoting an
mtnore attention to the economle side o fwh
his business than ever before, and like fro
the manufacturer, he s scannil the are
"cost sheet" to soe where excessive id
costs and useless expenditures oeeur he
so that he may eliminate them, Jusat for
now hundreds of them are discovering Ias
that the cost to farm owners for tue
fenclng against hogam runninl at hIrpgei.
in the vihinity of their farms is a very the
exorbitant tas to eontinue a custom of 7
the frontier days when "mast fed" o
hop were about the only kind that be
anybody rlaed. stal
Now conditions have ehagled, the tnt.
timber is rapidly dsluappeartan, the ne in
ingl eneration knows nothingl about lat
4plittlng ralt, most of the good Ifarm pap
inl liand i cleared in many partises, 'ne
and must all be fenced with poets and Mo.
wire. in some sections where the fields ben
are contlnuoMus for mlle and mtile, ettl
hoge are still allowed to ten at large. run
but as there is little for them to eat trt
along the roads and lanes between not
(arnms, they often learn to seek better vo
feeding greoands by breaking through lhr
'he fenese, and this results i the ue- ead
lh, destructioB of erope, but still T
worse, nl many ease it leads to bad is (
fellng amongl aeighbors. The bogs are mig
often severely lntured by ehaetg them to I
out with dop., by wlre uts in pasnlad in
through the teases, and mesnite!nsu m
hey are killed by the Irate owner of
the field, who thinks his neighbors
should keep their bogs up when they
learn to break through fences.
Another serious aspect of the failure
to confune hogs to the owner's premises
is that they are the most common
source for the spread of hbo cholera,
the suppression of thich Is a farmer's
p. problem. and can not be solved until
s" hjgs are prevented from running at
ich larges,
The only profitable way to rati hop
under the present conditions is to keep
en' them in confainement on the farm. give
'tlI them abundant grasing on planted
crops and feed them the required
amount of concentrated grains to as.
cure rapid growth. The expense of
to ereting the necessary hog-proof fences
around lots and pastures for keeping
of them in confinement will desrease as
the number of hogs kept increases,
yet But it there were no other objections
except the eost of tfaeing algainst hogs,
st that alone would inspire the farmers
of every parish that has amade any
reasonable progress in farm develop
ment to secure the passage of a hog f
law. PFor bulletins or further informs
Iion on any live stock question address
Superltendent, Live Stock Ixtension
Service, lNton Rosge, La.
O: WILSON MAKES PLANS.
e,. harry I. Wilson, Democratle nonel
to tie for commissioner of agriculture
1b and tlnmigration, announces the ol.
to lowing plans made for the Improve- o
ii meat of his oMee: it
1 expect to Istall at once a Bureau 0
id of Markets and use every means to ft
*t bring seller and buyer together. I
sa hall eall a conference of all the eBam- fi
d bers of commerce sad other oommner.
cial organisatlons, the nladustrial and it
agricultural agents of all railroads, the ui
4 A. & M. College, the United States 0
Extension Department, and every one to
4 that is interested, to meet once each
- mouth for at least one year to see if tl
" we can't put Louisiana on a real boom
- and bring In the thrifty Northern sad 'ii
0 Western farmers that are onw going lk
r to Canada. We shall also do our ut
'. most to make these immigrants make !"
F food after they settle on our lands. to
I shall uk the cooperation of all the Ib
a Commissioners of Agriculture of the be
r Southern States to secure the just and 11
t fair rates on all farm products, also
t minimum ear rates and lcing charges bi
e on perishable commodities, In feet my
4 aim will be to look after the interests
I (f the farmer in every particular, more
especlaily the marketing and extension
1 of his ield for all products raised by
him.
IPr
I EXPERIENCE VS. READING.
(The Country Gentleman.)
The doctor resas res medical journal
and learns from it. He boasts of the
Iact that he keeps up in his reading, J
I and if he is not acquainted with some
subject recently written up he apolo
lates for the fact that he has been too
btsy to read lately.
Parming is quite as complex a buet
ses asr practleltn medicine.
The lawyer is ashamed to confes
that he fails to read the latest daci
slong. The beat compliment that can
be paid to a lawyer is that he is well
--ad. So with the teacher, the preach
sr. the enaieer. All of them ooafese
their dependence upon the literature
f their profession to supplemeat the
hinge they leanl from expertiene.
It is only among farmers that we inad
any large nusmber of suessaful men
who declare that they learn altoether
fromt exlperience. Among faruners there
Pre still to be found numerous tadi
tduals who swem ashamed to confess
heir indebtedness to the farm pres
for helpful articles. Yet these men are
enallged in a business that has a litera
ture as extensive and important as the
literature of the lawyer, the enineer,
the minister or the teacher,
This aloof attitude of the farmers is
I confession of weakness. One of the
best cattle feeders in the country
stated, after he had won prises in the
International, that he had never been
in another man's feed yard but had
learned all he knew about feeding from
papers and books and through expert
nce., This is the real expert's spirit.
Most farmers who deny that they get
breefit from readlng are not quite
tellang the truth. They talkabonlt lis
umes, anitrogen, humus and balanced
rtions- -things of which they would
not have been able to speak twenty
vers ago, and of whleh they' could not
have learned, exept throuogh books
tnd papers.
The farlme who is not a book farmer
is only half as good a farmer as he
mgllht be. The burltes ts too eomplexs
to be learned wholly from experiete
in a siagle lifetlime, Why net be both
ealtaltrlesartlad latelletuadl hoaest
of 5150 IN CASH PRIZES
SFOR CLUB MEMBERS
The joint committee, repreenting
the School Board of the Parish, the
n Police Jury, the Town of St. Franeis.
ville, and the Bank of Commerce, met
In the oIee of the iankt of Commerce
on Saturday afternoon. February 6, at
at t o'clock. The following members were
present: L. W. Rogers, representing
the Town Council; W. I. Wood, repre
senting the Bank of Commerce; W. H.
Richardson, representing the Pollee
Jury, and R. 3. Crump, repreeenting
the School Board.
The meeting was Informal and the
purpose was to discuss the rules and
regulations to govern the pig, corn,
and tomato club work of the parish.
l it was agreed that as far as practl
cpble the rules adopted by the Junior
Extension Department of the State
u lniversity would be adopted by the
committee.
y The committee decided to apportion
$160.00 equally amonl the three clubs
for prises. It was further agreed that
the prises should be designated for
each club as follows:
nr t prtse .....$0.00 ln gold
Seeond prise... 12.50 In gold
Third prise..... 10,00 in gold
Fourth prize.... 6.00 in gold
Fifth prise..... 3.50 In gold
All children In the parish schools
. were held to be eligible to enter any
contest, regardless of sex. All children 6
In the parish schools above eight years
of age were held eligble to compete
Sfor any prise. Children below eight
iyears will be eligible to compete only
for the third, fourth sad fifth prises.
Is the corn and tomato work it will n
be necessary for the land to be mess,
ured accurately. For the corn, one
acre is the unit. For the tomato, one,
tenth of an acre il the unit.
Any bred of pig may be entered in
the competltlon.
The chlb is not required to do all
'he work, but a strict account must be "
kept of the cost of all work done, etc.
The Bank of Commeree proposed to
!lnd $160.00 for the purchase of pigs tc
for the hlildren, on eodittion that $50
be held In reserve to guarantee the d'
bank against any unavoidable loss.'I
htis was agreed to by the committee. r'
After further Informal discussion d
lie committee adjourned.
LIST OF CLUB MEMIRIS. at
Corn Club-Roy Smith, Fells Braud.
Philip Doberty, George Cutrer, Fred
Oookter, larl Decker, aol of the at. wi
lrancleville school; George Riddle, '":
Steve Bowman, Leslie Rickham. law. ha
resrae olkes, Mu#phy Dreher, of the an
Star Hill school: Willie Carpenter and oih
O'Neal Carpeater, of Alice. m
Pig Club--Feltus Leake, C. B. Ma- go
guire, George Cutrer. Russell Dalel, ne
Johnston Harrow, Mumford Ieaske.WIl- aii
lie JDeker, Slaughter Ball, Ovide WIit i wr
coL, G(eorge WIlcox. William Maddean,l we
lee Soul6, Cilford Brassenux, Jim be
Leake, of St. Franclvllie school; Ken. Ia
reth Smith and Ieland Splth, of Alice;
imeo Wright, of IRogilllle; D[ee
i[i_ U] I li ~ l i i:
!)nnlel and Lesllie Rlckham. of 8tar
l1u11, Hloratlo Jatekoon, Henry Howell,
l'hiomna Gilmore, Roberts Stlrling,
I.#L is Stirling, Matthew Ollmore, and
SJennie Roberts, of Wakefield.
e Tomato Club - Mel Leaks. Rosalie
s. kookter, Oarnett Howell, of St. Praar
,t ciavlile; Kate Peterson and Laidse,
, Peterson, of Rostllloville; Adelaide
t Peterson, Mary Relly, Amelia Jackeon,
atabry Wells, of Wilhelm; Florence
9p Spillman and Burrie Spillman, of Alice;
fDollie Bowman, Thelma Bickham, and
. Maurine Daniel, of Star Hill.
ro Number of Members of Clubs,
e ly Sehools.
St. Franclsvile - Corn club 4, pig
, club 14, tomato club 3.
d Wilhelm-- -Tomato club 4.
ranges liall ...- Pig club 1, tomato
club 3.
New Hope--Tomato club 3 pig club 3,
r corn club 2,
e Wakefield--Pis club 7.
e Star iillI--Corn dub S, tomato club 3,
pig club 2.
" Totales--'orn club 13, pig club 14,
tomato club 14.
t Total membere-6l,
r r
GOVERNMENT HELP FOR ROADS.
By a vote of 231 to tl the House of
Representativea at Wasblhgtoo hasb
passed what Is called "Thbe Shackle,
ford Bill" carrying an appropriation of
$25,o00o000 to aid the states in improv
ing their public ronda used in the
postal ervice of the government. The
bill as it pased the House provides
that in certain cases, clearly dedned
Sin the bill, the Secretary of Agrienil
lure shall aid the states In the eom
struction and maintenance of rural
meost roads, which means "ay public
road ovr which rural mail is, or lmght
be, carried outside of incorporated
cities, towns or boroughs having a
population exceedlnlg ,000," The Se.
penns of admlnistertng the fund thus
provided is to be paid out of the fund.
Sach state ls to receilve outright the
sums of $0.,000 and one-bal of the
remainder to be divided Is to be ap
portioned amon the statese according
to population and the remalning half
according to the mileage of rural free
deolver! routes to the exstent that such
.population, and rural free delivery
routes bear to the population and fret
delivery of all the states,
If the mamimum of 132,000.000 pro
vided in the act be appropriated, the
amount of aid to loulsiana will be
$34~,.ai4.
Ilrnry Pord is of the opinion that
we doI, not assert ourselves enough
"Pt'roonally," he said in New York, "I
have been a voter thirty.three years
and in all that time I have voted only
six times, and then beceas my wifT
made me." There are thousands of
good eitiasna like Henry, who would
never vote except for their wives' In
slatenne, and yet some people oppose
woman suffrage on the Iround that
someuns would not vote even if they
had the ehance.--iMke Charles Amerl
wantPress.
ADVERTIBS BVERY WEEK.
NOW OPEN-OUR 1916
CHRISTMAS SAVINGS CLUB
You pay for 49 weeks.
Relow we show exactly the amount you pay In during the 49 weeks:
Ce Class
either ascending or descendling ......................
2c Class- 2450
either ascending or descending .... ..........
S Class- 6150
either ascending or deending. .................. $ ,
J1e Clas
either secending or descending .......... ......... 5
Or you can deposit the same amount each week for 49 weeks
and accumulate as follows:
25c each week ............................. 12.25
Seach week .............................$ 24.50
$1.00 each week............................. 49.00
52.00 each week .........................$... 98.00
$2.0 each week ..........................122.50
and we add to these amounts 3J/4 per annum interest.
WE INVITE YOU TO JOIN.
THE BANK OF BATON ROUGE
THE MILLION DOLLAR BANK
ray ý ýý ýeý ý} ýi= .,. ul t 8.g v·
