TEiis issue oa The. Menace Isv
one of the
cry best pro
paganda numbers we have ever printed. The speeches of the attorneys in
The M enacc case are documents that should be distributed broadcast! If
you have not already done so, order a bundle today and sec that all your neighbors who do not
take the pa per tret a copy of this issue. 50 copies to one address, 25c; 100 copies, 50c; 250
copies, $1.25; 500 copies, 52.25. Place your order NOW and avoid the rush.
& uj rr Sv TW l Number 251 c?
SPEECH OF JOHN L. MATT
DeSrcrtd tt tba Jtrj at JopBa, hnniry 14, 1916, li Ithut cf
Tkt Uttatt and Its SLf Who Wert Charred Witk Seadinf
ObsctBi Matter Throo. the United States Mais
"1 " "CO..' J
...'fi
t'-V-
.
TOX. JOnX L. MrNATT, Aurora, Mo.
P the court please, gentlemen of
the Jury: I am glad of the op
portunity to represent these de
fendant In a ease of this kind,
for it means niurh to thorn, aa
vy frienda and neighbor, who liberty
in brio placed in jeopardy; but it menu.
Will moro to ytu aa eitisees of thia coun
try to be right la your verdict in thi
..use, for tho principle involved In thi
prosecution are of the gravest and great
est importance, to every cititen tiiat livpa
Under tbo American nag. Therefore 1
am clad to talk to you in my weak waj
a'xHit what 1 conceive, under tho rulings
of t lie court, if your duty aa jurors, t
renson together and discuss thia test I
tui.ny, with a virw of assisting you in
arriving at a rightcoue verdict.
I trust, gentlemen, that certain propo
itiona have boon thoroughly rUl'lihvi
in jour mind, for you have beard t hem
threshed out here pro and eon, and one
of thorn ia, aa Ilia Honor baa ao strictly
indicated, that the truth or falnity of the
charge contained in these counts or,
rather the facta that were printed in
The Menace newspapers and in the book
called "Tho Foje" condemning the
Catholic priesthood, npon which Uiii in
dictment ia founded, the truth or falsity
Of them, 1 nay, aa far ai you are con
cerned, should not in any way influence
jour judgment in thia ease. hue we
were ready to prove tho truth of pub
lications, Ilia Honor ruled it waa im
material. That being granted then, I an gi uijj
to ask you aa reasonablo men, in con
idoring thia testimony, to be aa chari
table as the circumstances now demami
that you should be, and so for as any sus
picion that you may have aa to them
article, disclosing such a horrible condi
tion in the priesthood, being untrue, be
removed from your minds; and while it
is true we don't like to ludieve such
things do and can exist, in this civilize
" 7 for the purpose of this case
you should look at these a it idea tha
are charged to be obscene in the bgli
and in the way you would look at them
If yon personally knew them to be ever
word the truth.
Context Necessary to Judge Effect
Now, then, I am sot going to take up
my time and yours in a detailed read
lug of what the court admitted in testi
mony. It was not only a hat the dis
tinguiahed gentleman representing the
government baa road to you from this in
diet meat. Ton know that many thine
were introduced and read to yon beside
the excerpts contained in the indictment;
tbey were presented to you for the pur
pose of enlightening you men aa to what
was meant by tbeee articles charged tc
he obscene, and what the object and pur
pose and the general effect these article
would have upon the person that read
them. Anything is obscene or not, accord
ing to its object and understanding. Now,
bear that ia mind; for that ia one thing,
and ia fact tha controlling thing, tha
yon are bound to consider; aad you
should take into consideration all the
, testimony before yon, in determining
. L. - V.- b. 1 .ffu Ik. I
these articles would have upon a person
of ordinary intelligence.
Therefore, starting in with the proposi
tion that these articl are telling the
troth, aad that you au to consider not
only what is set out in the indictment
but all the evidence and extraneous mat
tera that the court baa admitted to come
, to you from the witness stand, ao you
- riiav judge the meaning of the article
and their object and effect npon persom
rdading them, then let as aee.
I will adopt the definition govern
meat's counsel has given the words "ob
c.tno, lewd and Use! viona, ' for the
pujtaose of my r-ume?jd I believe
.. . ...
V;:jA, ;, "...
. y. r a. . A
he is right ia saying the statute ondoi
which the; men are being tried for a
felony is leveled at such literature as
tends to deprave or degrade the morals
or arouse in the mind of the person road
ing it lustful and evil thoughts! Let us
see if any of these articles could have
that effort Take the " Little Orphan
Annie" article. Gentlemen, and 1 ap
piehund you are a fair representation ot
the million and a half of honest, Uod
fearing, Ood lnviug people who read tin
article, and 1 want you men to answet
on your own consciences if by hearing
this article read, your morals have been
degraded. If there is a man on this jury
whose mind lies in the direction of de
pravity, who looks for the evil, and seeks
tho vulgar in all things if, I say there
is a man on thia jury that, after be ha
read the entire story contained in "Little
Orphan Annie," wherein it is described
bow this innocent nun was so brutalh
outraged, if it aroiiaes in your mind lunt
ful thoughts and desires that would tend
to seduce, your moral", annwer mo b,
your verdict and convict these men.
Does it arouHe in your minds the lust
ful or evil thought that would lead you
axtrayt Ah, men, 1 know you better
than thnt; you are not that kind of cit
izens, the effect on your mind when you
read of this horrible awault is one ol
Christian svmpathy for this unfortunate
girl who was so foully troated by the
person aha bad a right to look to foi
protection. It does not arouse in yo
auch feelings as would tend to dcrooraliK
your character; it does not arouse in yo
feeling of lustful desire; but it does
arouso in your minds and hearts a feeling
of regret that such base beings aa thi:
priest are -ermitled to live. It brings tc
you men the same feeling that would
cause father or husband to shoulder bib
gun and go out to seek the despoiler ol
womanhood. ixn't that what you are
thinking about f Why, gentlemen I wouli
bo ashamed to look you in the face, an
think you would be evil minded in thli
matter: I would not have the courage
accuxe you men of having aroused in
your minds, from reading thia story, a
lustful dire or a lascivious thought,
that would deprave your morals.
Now, you can go clear on through wit'
the whole of these articles, and wbea yo
see the object, none of them bas an
effect on the mind of a sane man, o
a lustful nature; but on the contrary
wbea you read what these articles te
you is the true condition, your mind i
a roused with thoughts of earnest an
sincere condemnation, and your praters
are that these evils will be eventually
exterminated.
Now, I have adopted the government 'a
own definition of the purpose of this law
what it means and you have here a
ease clear out of the purpose of the law
Ton can go article by article, and yoi
can see that the articles eomplaine
about by the government as being an
mailable, only carry out the object of
this wonderful publication thkt was set
forth aa the platform ia tha initial aum
ber.
Publicity a Corrective Power
It has continually, as these article
show, held op to tha public something
the public it entitled to know; and whet
that is done, I say the morals of th
country, instead of being depraved o
degraded, will have been uplifted ia the
minds of alt sane aad Christina people
Let ua take a few examples: The
comment more specifically oa what ws
aaid ia Mr. Crowley 'a book about the
priest Thompson. Tbey aay that ia o
scene aad filthy; if ao tbo article show
it was takea from another newspaper o '
general aad daily circulation. Taerer
ia disclosed a history of the proeecutior
(Continued o Tag J, Column I)
CD
Our Position and Platform
(flora tW Aral ertVta M IW Srrt
trial a Jra. a was aitems to aa a
taat lu mnawlia will aa aoararuiaS
laa tana ml a aaiaotary B7 kWv. Waar.
THn Uliem waa act begun ia a captions eririt, far frca It, bet wita a profonad conviction that a vara
grave aad porteatioos menace eoafroete the Amerteaa people, that ade to bo give publicity.
T Mix.- has ao rght wit the Bomaa religioa for those aha Us it, as a relates u salvatioa aad
the future Ufa.
Ibe threatening danger to American laatitutioss, a ft rkurrh, a fre press, a free school, the right of
Ivsie lodgment ia the matter of conscience thase the fcumia ehuna surord.nate to the authority of Its
hierarchy.
We bare many Catholia friends, whose friendahip It of feag standing. We fcave kept the peace by re
fraining fiota diaeneaing religion or pobtica We have elwars said to thera you have your rights ia these
matters aad I have miae.- With this oaderstaading we shale beads and go ca oor way.
The privaU, bumble communicant ia the Catholic ehur.a has ao choice what be is to'belvo-lt la for him
to obey the voice of the church.
Tut Viwci lake imue with this Toiee and not with the communicant; with the authorities that direct and
not the maa or woman a ho fccla compelled to obey.
Tut Mix.cc, therefore eotera a lecitimato field of criticism open to all whether he be Catholic. Protestant.
Oreek or Jew, Mohammedan, or freethinker.
If the CathoUe church la a menace to America liberty and free Institutions, the people ought to know it
eaperially the Catholic member. '
Tho only freedom that it worth having at all b tl at which the Christ announced when be said, "and the
truth shall make you free."
It la aot who otters condemnation against priestcraft and ecdeeiastKal Interference in things belonrrc ex
clusively to the state, but is the charge true!
To assail tha editor of Tu Msxack or its pnblishor will avail nothing. The hierarchy must meet the im
pending crina which Tat MeNac believes is at hand or be driven from the Ml as in Irance Oermanv
bpaia and every great nation of modern time. ' '
Tmk MEAr ia not gu''ir anything It la aot Bghtirg a man of straw it is sure of its ground and
rejoice ia the truth, aad the host of friends ia every nook and comer of the world.
Tll Masacx 1 in immediate touch with name, reeldeure and rarn.nt avmpathT of arve-al thousand men
It does not have to feel its way. It walks ia the bght, knows ahero it is going and a hose door to rat. to fiud
admittance, '
Thk Mxnact. In iU publishing department It fully eju:pped and is setting its office in order to take earo
of tn flood of businc coming our nay.
With this iaue it Is np to our 'friends to scatter the winged messenger, and to tit at tlii end to keen
tweet, in the love of the truth, and in chanty. Tuec. C Walks. 1
The Conscience Element of -:- -:--:-
America and The Menace
Millions At Prayer
INCH the memorable January
1 th- wlu n the Uonian Cath
8
olic ioiiiicai Jiaehine re
ceived its first etunninir blow
in the victory of Thk Menace, at
tho trial instigated by Knijjhta of
Columbus, an avalanche of mes
sages of joy and cheer have poured
into the oilicen of Thk iltsirt' at
Aurora, Missouri, and the Fnx' Trees
Dt fenfie League of Fort Scott, Kau-
Thia in itself is not strange: when
an attempt is made to ttnko down
a paper that is each week rend bv
several million people its loyal sub
scribers naturally rally to itit sun-
Jiort. But there it something rferu
ry mgmjuanl aoout these letters
which can not fail to impress the
tludcnl of hiftory?
Tbey reveal a condition biir with
promise for tho cause of free Amer
ica.
They show that the profound re
ligious sentiment of Protestant and
patriotic America is stirred as per
haps never before in the life of our
people.
From the Atlantic to the Ta
cific, from the (Jreat Lakes to the
eulf: from cities and towns, from
hamleU and farms ; from professor's
chairs in universities ana colleges,
from clergymen's studies, lawyer's
otliccs, merchant's counting rooms;
from the factories and the shops
and from a vast multitude of de
voted wives and mothers there has
come a mighty stream of letters
voicing the fact that m every nook
and corner of this Kepublic and in
every station of life God fearing
men and women were on their knees
praying for the victory of The
11 en-ace. '
It is, we think, safe to say that
no great religious journal in any
crisis in the history of our country
has called forth so many prayers
from earnest Christians aa were in
evidence during the second week in
January during this now historic
trial. t
INT ALL GREAT CRISES TJJE
PEOPLE TURN TO GOD.
Here is a letter one of thou
sands that might be quoted it was
written to Mr. J. I. Sheppard, Sec
retary- 1 reasurer of 1 he Free Press
Defense League and senior counsel
at The Menace trial. The author
is a distinguished educator filling
an important chair in one of our
great American universities.
"Heart congratulations on your vic
tory at Joplin. I wish I could have heard
yon. I helped all I could from this end.
praying earnestly aad frequently for you
aad for the triumph of the right; I do
aot know to what extent you believe in
prayer but I am a firm believer in it.'
The spectacle of the Christian
women of Aurora, Missouri, assem
bling in - Protestant churches on
January 14th, and earnestly pray
ing for the triumph of The Men
ace was merely an expression of
what was going on all over this
great lamd as the thousands of mes
sages attest Here ia an extract
ml Tat Maaara was
la IM Bnttry
I IM amtry
aaaarrtaara
aad ciuae Hsiiuu af tla
B b. a ITOWER.
PralWnt Frse Press Data nas Laatoa.
from a letter just at hand from
Indianapolis, Indiana.
"The ladies of Aumra were not the
ouly ones praying for your deliverance
on tho day of your triumphant acquittal.
I venture that every one of tho five
million readers of the moat fcorlms paper
on the earth were an engaged during the
entire trial. The glut .'.us outiviiii will
ncrvs eiory heart on t'.e Tiring Line to
renewed eicrtions and J predict to
million culiscribcrs for the pajn-r, 'ere the
elections of this year."
Tho following lines ar from a
well known luwycr iu tho Mis.iscippi
valley.
"You lucre won a Botanic victory for
the freedom of the prete of thia conutry :
Ouo thing you can rert aiured of and
that is that you have the sympathy of
the people of the whole country. Kvcry
body knows what you hae to go through
in order to defend. tJ-o lilicrty of the
American people. (.coro Washington
may have licen tho Father of our country
but I consider Tue Mka'E is doing
more for the cause of our freedom than
he ever did do. I wish to awure you
I will do all in my power to help you.
I want to see The Mr.NArr. go to five
million circulation and it will go to that
figure if the patriot of this nation do
their duty."
These letters are merely typical
of the thousands of communications
that aro pouring into the offices of
The Menace and the League.
Many of the letters received re
mind us of the old prophets of
Israel, or of the utterances of the
noble patriotic band which sailed
on the May Flower under the com
pulsion of the Vision, to become,
under the guidance of the Divine
Mind, the conservators of Freedom.
One feels when reading some of
these letters that the writers must
have felt much as did our great
Protestant philosopher and poet,
Ralph Waldo Emerson, when in
writing his Boston Uyinn he penned
these lines:
"The word of the Lord by night
To the watching Pilgrims came,
As they aat by the sea. side.
And tilled their hearts with flame.
"God said I am tired of kings,
I suffer them no more;
Up to my ear the morning brings
The outrage of the poor.
"My angel, his name is Freedom
Choose him to be your King;
lie shall cot pathways east and west
And fend you with kla wing.
"Lo! I uncover the trod
Which I hid of old time In the West
As the sculptor uncos- s the statue,
When he has wrought his bert"
Other letters breathe the spirit
of Whittier as eiprcssed in these
lines:
"Up, then, in Freedom's manly part,
From greybeard eld is fiery youth,
And on the nation's aaked heart
tvntter the living coals of truth!
Up while ye slubber, deeper yet
The shadow of our shame ia growing t
Up, while ye pause, our sua may set
In blood, around our altars flowing! I
"Up bow for Freedom; aot in strife
Lake that your stertir father taw,
The awful waste of human life,
The glory and the, gaJt of war:
But break the etain the yoke remove,
Aad emit to earth Oppression 'i rod,
a f l ar I
it Jarr aa a am
a. In imi mt t
a4
a
a4 I aria
aaa kara tan
It aa la
las aallrs
With thoae mild arms of Truth and liove,
Ma lo mighty through the living God! "
Still other communications sug
gest thee lines of IjoweII'n, lines
which were never more appropriate
than they arc at the present crisis.
"Forever ours; for good or ill, on ut the
Imrden lie:
God ' balance, watched by angola U hung
across the skies.
Sliall JuM..e, Truth and Freedom turn
the poised and trcmhlinir scaler
j Or shall the Kvil triumph and robbei
v. rung prevail?
" Hy all for tihi. h tho martyrs tore their
Sony and srutinc;
By all the warmug words of tru!h with
which the prophets came;
By tho Future which awaits us; by all
tho hope which cst
Their faint and trembling beams acroji
the blsckncns of tho PnM ;
And by the d'esyed thought of Him who
for Earth's freedom died,
O my people! O my bro'hers! J,-t ua
choose tho righteous aide. ' '
This veritable deluge of mes
sage?, glowing with lofty patriot inn
and living faith reveals the
ing of the Protestant millions of
America, and the further fact that
these men and women of cons ience,
filled with as grim a determination
as marked our Revolutionary heroes,
arc marshalling for the nnwnt mm.
flict a conflict which the more
thoughtful of them realize will he
one of the greatest and nerhans the
gravest that has marked our civili
zation since .Martin .Luther chal
lenged Rome.
An Important Fact of History
Since the Protestant Reformation
and especially since the Democratic
era every great spiritual, moral and
political awakening of the people
has been marked by tho prayers of
millions prayers born of living
laitn in IkhI and marked bv that
spiritual exaltation that pla.es free
dom, justice and truth above all
other things, making the Cause
loom above all material considera
tions and even above life itarlf.
These letters breathe forth this
high fine spirit this spirit of con
secration and devotion that has ear
ried every great cause to victory.
There are many way of skinning a
eat! A Cleveland priest told his people
mat ii someone were to otter him enough
money every year to carry on the work
of his church and thus release him and
every other member from further finan
cial resiKinsibility, and make the gift per
petual, he would refuse the offer, because
people do not nave any interest in what
tbey don 't have to pay for. Every priest
editor hat assured n. that the 'faithful
go to church because of tho "living pres
ence of God in the bread and wine"
it now appeart that they go because they
are paying for the privilege of going!
But no matter how tangled a priest got
in Bit ttatemenu, one idea la always on
top how to get the money! Not being
swamped with death bed wills or jubilee
purses, the Cleveland priest had to say
something to facilitate the shelling ont of
due. No matter bow ample the money
lor enuix-B support, did anyone ever hear
a priest yell, ' "Hold -enough ! ' Don't
take the Cleveland priest' dare!
Bomanism depends Bomaa -,,
tuff ot tradition to as. path,
cultie oa the road of t .
aftaa
SPEECH OF JJ. SHEPPARD
DeLhered to the lory at Jopfia, Mo., Janoary 14, 1916. ia Defeat cf
The Meaaci and Its Staff Wfcc Wert Oar.ed Witt Senrftt,
Obscent Hatter Tbroa.b the United Statu Mails
..-'-ViA " ' 7
T )
HON". J. I. FHEPPARD, Fort Scott, Kan.
SI
F the eourt please, and gentlemen
of the jury: 1 fe.1 that I onfbt
not take your time to further
argue this esse un the part of
the r!ifonc since my aseo-
riato has made so able a presentation of
it. 1 have never heard a clearer or a
better discussion of tho iMiiea, in a lnw
suit than Mr. McNatt, b it jn-t given you
free from any paMon, free from any
prejudice, free from any of the tiling
Unit sometime jiispiiv bmyers to sy
thinga tliey ought not say coolly, calm
ly, dolibcratcly, ai a semtiblo man, he
gavo you his views of tho law and the
evidence in this ease.
But I think of the seriounees of the
mutter, ami for f-ar there miuht I1
sonietliing overlooked somewhere alons;
the lino thnt would remilt diwstrooMy to
our client, 1 crae a few moments if
your time.
We hswo been here now three days. 1
km-w none nf ym a hen I is inc. I wsa
a "trcniktcT to you. 1 am a stranger yet,
in the ordinary acceptation of that term,
but yet I feel aa though I had known
yeu all my life. I have looked at you
at times when you were not conscious n
it studied the face of every man on this
jury; aud 1 felt certain then, as I fivl
now, that no harm can come to these U
fendants, becauso your faces beitpea.
honesty and uprightness of purpose.
Wo have gotten through with this trial
without any of the wrangling that some
times takes place In the trial of cases in
court. I was fortunato indeed to have
associated with me such a nuin aa John
U McNatt. He has brought to our ai
in tl.is trial his profound leurning an-l
experience. His deep knowledge of the
law has at all times been a source of
strength and comfort to me. He is a
noble example of the illustrious sons
which the great state of Missouri ha
produced.
We am fortunate, to have on the other
fide of the rase such distinguished gentle
men aa the District Attorney and his
assistant, men of honor ant integrity. I
think I may aay that no raso waa ever
presented in a better way than has the
District Attorney presented this one.
Francis M. Wilson baa brought out in
this ease everything that eould possibly
have been presented to you. He has
done his whole duty aa his oath of office
requires bim to do, and, if he ia called,
as it teems from the many reports that
have come to me during tho last few
weeks be will be, to the high otlice o'
Governor of this State, I am sure tha
he will take with bim there honesty,
dignity, ability, and the noble purpose
to do for the Wtste of Missouri what thi
other eminent men have done who have
preceded him in that high place. I know
that he wants nothing to interfere with
the course of justice here. 1 have known
of bim a long while, but this is the first
time I waa evar associated in any way
wh bim in the trial of a cause. But 1
aay to you, that his treatment of nt bas
been fair and courteous and gentlemanly.
I am looking forward with pleasure te
what I know will be, after I have con
cluded, an eloquent and scholarly argu
meat of this ease; and you gentlemen
are to be congratulated that you will
have an opportunity of hearing him.
No Case to Begin With
And yet, gentlemen, lawyer cannot
make ease. There waa ao ease to begin
with. Wbea- jurors are sworn to return
a verdict according; to the law and tl
evidence, they are bound by their eon
science to do that which 1 right, aad a)
hough lawysr may twy them, although
lawyert of great ability may present
arguments that teem hard to answer, yet
lha avers go juror romee ba. k again to
bis guide fais conscience. And I aay to
you, without fear of tueceesful Contra
diction, that notwithstanding vordicta of
juries are sometimea criticised, yet in the
vs(.t nia.iority of eases ninety-nine out
of a hundred the verdicts of jnrie are
right; and that is why the people insist
npon retaining the jury system. Twelve
men aro called from every walk of life
to sit in judgment npon the conduct and
actions of their fellow citizens. And
hen tbey hate dotcrmined. the people
are satiHtiod that if they haven't done
ri'ht, they have at least tried to do ao.
You twihe men, occupy a peculiar
position toduy. At soon as the argument '
are linudied nnd the court bat charged
you at to the law, you go to your jury .
loom to deliberate upon your verdict. '
When tho door of tho jury room closes
Ishitid you, and you twelve are left
al'ine, you will have more power than any
president, any emperor, any prince, or
any potentate ia all the world. You
have in your keeping the liberty of four
men your fellow citizen. It ia for you
to say, and no one else can aay it for
yon it is for you to any whether these
men shall igo back to Aurora, cleared of
the stain that thit i barge baa brought
against them, or whether they shall pro
reed from here to Leavenworth aa felons,
sentenced, to pay a fine of five thousand
dollar aud to serve five year in the
pcnitentisry, on each count that you con
vict upon. So 1 aay that you hare a
wonderful power in your hinds today.
The probabilities are that none of you
will ever again be given such power, for
men are seldom called to render jury
service; tome never are called. And so
1 speak to yon of the aeriousneat of the
great rcnaibility that rests npoa you,
and I ask you to use your great power
ss becomes noble men.
Iu this rase, it is nrgnd that we must
be confined strictly to the matter set out
in tbo indictment. You noticed what that '
matter was. Now, I may have miaundor- '
stood the Court's rulings a moment ago,
but I think be will instruct you at the
conclusion of this case that yon have a
right, when you deliberate upon the ques
tion of whether this matter ia obscene,
to call to your consideration, your knowl
edge of the literature of the worl.i, the
Bible, Shakespeare and other standard
works, for the purpose of determining
the effect thnt that literature has had
npon the world, and for the purpose of
determining what effect thit particular
literature will bar upon the world. I
say, I am convinced the eourt will give
you that instruction. It hat been re
quested. Garbled Passages
You hnve read in Holy Writ and
dida't you father and rather before
yon, as mine did read thing from
which, if yon take an excerpt auch as ia
sought to "be takea in thit case, from a
page or a chapter or a paragraph and
consider it, standing alone, would not
sound well to ear polite.
Ma. Wilson: Just a moment Now,
if the court please, I very much regret
to interrupt my friend, but under the
rulings of thia court, I do sot understand
that be ia permitted to argue to the jury
that which was expressly excluded by the
court. Ho cannot argue a to excerpt
from other book.
Mi, PHirraao: If your aoaor pieman,
in the ease that have been decided. Your
(Continued oa fag 2, Column l
