The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1916
NUMUER VJ
f
iFthese times
KEEP THEIR FACTS ON STRAIGHT
And Not Charge to the President What
He Neither Stands For nor
Advocates.
The Sayings of Turbulent Teddy are As
cribed by Designing Ones to the
Chief Executive.
So much Is being said about Presi
dent Wilson's reasonable prepared
ness program these days so many un
tthful misrepresentations made so
(jmany St. Joseph curbstone politicians
" standing around claiming that the
president is trying to give the coun
try a "vast standing army" and that
his whole trend is toward "militar
ism," that It Is not out of place to
quote what he did say two weeks ago
In a speech In Topeka, In St. Joseph's
own territory, and which discloses
that he never has advocated anything
but reasonable preparedness and Is
conscientiously against anything that
even smacks of militarism. Here is
what he did say:
Someone Has Misrepresented
"If Kansas Is opposed or has been
opposed to the policy of preparation
for national defense, it has been only
because somebody has misrepresented
that policy and they do not know
what it is.
"What Is the Issue? Why, of course,
there are some men going about pro
posing great military establishments
for America but you have not heard
anybody connected with the adminis
tration that did. You have not heard
anybody In any responsible position
who could carry his plan out who did,
The singular thing about this sltua
tion Is that the loudest voices have
been the Irresponsible voices.
Take Care of Ourselves
"All that anybody In authority has
proposed is that America should be
. put In such a position that her free
citizens should know how to take care
' of themselves and their country when
1 the occasion arose. We have been
l proposing only a very moderate in
crease in the standing army of the
countryi because it Is already too
small for the routine uses of peace.
I have not had soldiers enough to
patrol the border between here and
Mexico. I have not had soldiers enough
for the ordinary services of the army
and there are many things which it
has been impossible for me to do
which it was my duty to do, because
there are not men to do them with.
PROF. EUGEN KUEHNMANN COMING.
K '"LibbbbbbbbbbH
K' "SSL bbbbbH
BSBBBBBBBBBBBBHBr. 53 H
HPj?". -yjjlfff BBBBBK
bbbhb!bbbbbhbhpkJI9bv!bbbH
MKBBHBBBBwJlMBiBBBBBBi
-.
"v
PROF. EUGEN
In a nation where education
v sary as food and raiment; where scholars come from who lead
thesorld in excellence; from there comes its highest, ablest repre
sentative, Prof. Eugen Kuehnmann of the Imperial University,
w Breslau, Germany, who holds the chair of philosophy and liter
ature there and in Harvard University in the United States.
He will lecture on "The Significance of the European War"
at the Lyceum theater Thursday evening, Feb. 17. His lecture
will be in the American language, and from all reports he is one
of the most powerful orators living. His remarks will not offend
those who differ with him in viewpoint. The lecture is for the
benefit of the Red Cross, and tickets will be sold as follows: Or
chestra, 50 cents; balcony, 25 cents; gallery, 10 cents. They can
be had at the German-American Bank, Townsend, Wyatt & Wall
Dry Goods Co., Neudorff Hardware Co., the Leader Dry Goods
Co Hirsch Dry Goods Co., C, Leimbach and the Volksblatt office.
all
You are not going to be Jealous of an
increase In. the army sufficient to
enable the executive to carry out hU
constitutional responsibilities. And
over and above that, we have pro
posed this, that a sufficient number
of men out of the ranks of the civil
pursuits of the country Should be
trained In the use and the keeping of
arms, in the sanitation of camps, in
the maneuvers of the field and In mili
tary organization; to be ready, and
pledged to be ready, if the call should
come, upon act of congress, to unite
their force with the little force of the
army Itself and make a great multi
tude of armed men ready to vindicate
the rights of America.
Misrepresenting; the Facts
"Is there anything inconsistent with
the traditions of Kansas or with the
true traditions of America In a pro-!
posal like that? The very essence of
America tradition Is contained in the
proposal.
what we are asking is thisr That
the nation supply arms for those of
the nation who are ready, if occasion
should arise, to come to the national'
defense, and that it should do this
without withdrawing them from their
pursuits of Industry and of peace, in
order that America should know that
In the foundations from which she
always draws her strength there
welled up the inexhaustible resources
of American manhood. This is not a
military policy: this Is a policy of
adequate preparation for national de
fenao.jind any man wtib represents it
In any other light must either be igno
rant or consciously misrepresenting
the facts."
What Teddy Said
These fellows who have talked so
foolishly evidently have Teddy the
Oyster Bay Noise In mind instead of
the president when they talk so vap
idly. They must have him in mind
for he is denouncing the president as
a coward and a milksop and ridiculing
his defensive program as amateurish
and Inadequate. It Is Colonel Roose
velt, not President Wilson, who said
recently:
(Continued on Page Eight)
KUEHNMANN
is a religion ; where it is as neces-
SOME 1916 PROPHECIES
A St. Joseph Man Offers Some Addi
tions to the Madame Thebes
Horoscope
After reading the predictions of
Madam Thebes, Just Issued, In which
she gives the horoscope for the United
States In 1916, St. Joseph's only Lew
Gabbert decided that the ground was
fairly safe but felt that she had no
completely covered the subject. He
decided that if Madam Thebes had
given a little more study to the heav
enly aspects she would have been ab
solutely justified In predicting:
"That there will be a presldentia
election In November preceded by a
large number of straw votes Indicat
ing the wrong result.
"That there will be protracted de
bate in congress all the winter and
spring devoted principally to the
proposition that the gentleman from
Pennsylvania has been as consistent
In his course as the gentleman from
Mississippi.
"That the former secretary of state
will break his long silence and de
clare against preparedness for de
fense, two terms for a president am
any kind of a tax on chautauquas.
"That after the naval experts hav
recommended to congress the numbe
and kind of ships to build, congres
will build some other number an
some other kind.
"That sometime next summer some
where somebody will make a speec
containing some allusion to the tariff
"That persons who have one dollar
and spend two will complaia tha
America ,sn'1 the land ot opportunity
it was when Andy Carnegie started in.
"That there will be more motor
cars than ever before and more people
without them.
"That if the Republican convention
offers the nomination to a dark horse
he will not say neigh."
TOO MANY IN MISSOURI
That Was the Reason Congressman!
Booher States Why President
Wilson Skipped St. Joseph
Ever since President Wilson failed) '
to stop in St. Joseph on his visit to wItn a Provls that wnen tne lnter
the Middle West, a number of people fested parties have deposited $50,000
here have sat up nights to figure out in some bank to be named by the sec
why it was that the chief executive retary of war, the work will begin, and '
passed through the best city on the i
Missouri river without stocnlnc and
a whole number of them have as.dollar lf the oPe Taise $50,000 to
signed ridiculous and personal reasons' $"0,000. There will be no doubt that,
why he did not stop. For the benefl J when the bill passes the house It will I
of these self interested people of many I contaIn tnIs proVislon for the im-1
and varied reasons, the following ex ...,, , ., ...... , i , I
1 provement of the river at Lake Con-'
tcj iu iruui a iuuci irveiveu uuh ween
by a friend, from Congressman
Charles F. Booher. may help to sat-
lsfy their-longing for knowledge. Con -
gressman Booher writes: I
"I know that you and the people o
St. Joseph are disappointed in not
having the president with you, bu
your disappointment is no greater.
than mine. I do not know why, except , - .. .... ..
as stated In the enclosed letter from Business Men Who Do Not Propose
Secretary Tumulty. I have heard it' to Have Their Homes Raided
intimated that there was a great deal' will Move
of fault finding about his making three
speeches in Missouri, and that was I ... ,...,., u
really the reason for cutting us out. Seattle, Wash., Feb. 11. Three mil
Senator Stone and myself tried our1 llonalres, whose homes were recently
best to get St. Joseph on the list, an f-ralded by Sheriff Robert Hodges un
we had splendid help from Mr. L. T. dr the new pronlbltion law of this
Goldlng, but we were not able to . . . , . , .. . , . .,
do g0 1. state, have declared their intention
Enclosed with Mr. Booher's letter' of movl,lg t0 '"'" a""" makl"K
denied thp lequest of Senator Stone,!
Congressman Booher and Mr. Golding, i
which is as follows: i
"The White House
"Washington
"January 22, 1916.
"My Dear Mr. Booher:
"The president deeply appreciates
the cordial Invitation which you ex
tended to him to visit St. Joseph in
the course of his prospective trln. and
he -asks me to express his genuine i raided and $6,000 worth of wines taken
regret that he must disappoint you.1 by the sheriff, Is another who says he
lie had hoped to be able to do this,' wlll not contlnue t0 make his home
but, unfortunately, In considering thei. . . , . .
train schedules in the light of the1 here. but wIM move t0 San Franclsco
places to which he was definitely com- Skinner is the owner of the Port
mitted, it was found impossible to' Blakely mills, the largest lumber mills
stop at St. Joseph, the schedule as on the coast ,,e nad made an plans
adopted taking him through that city,, .. ., , , . ,
late at night. As he must return to for the construction here of two new
Washington for an official engagement lumberarrylng steamers. He an
on February 4th, it Is out of the ques-1 nounced recently that he would not
tion for him to take In St. Joseph by'bulld the vessels here, but would take
extending bis trip up tfae maUer of the,r constructon at
'J. P. TUMULTY,
"Secretary to the President.
"Hon, Charles F. Booher,
"House of Representatives."
If St. Joseph had not been so prom -
inently for preparedness, there Is but
little doubt but that he might have
been induced to stop here on his trip.
As It is, there is still a possibility
that he may come to St. Joseph If ho
makes a trip to the coast, as it is
claimed that he will. Should he come
to this city he will be accorded a real
Missouri welcome, and box seats at
the Auditorium will be free instead
of being sold at $10 per, as was the
case a't Kansas City.
10 CARRY $15,000
FOR THE MISSOUR
Rivers and Harbors Bill to Con
tain an Appropriation to
Be Expended Here
THE CITIZENS MUST
ALSO TAKE A HAND
The Bill, Which Comes From the Com
mittee of Which Congressman
Booher Is Chairman, Will Go to
Congress as Now Drafted and Will
Pass as Presented, Therefore It
Will Be Well for St Joseph and
Those Interested to at Once Take
Steps In the Matter and do Their
Part.
Washington, D, C, Feb. 11 (Special)
The river and harbor bill will be re
ported to the house from the commit
tee on rivers and harbors the last of
this week or the first of next week,
and will carry the following provisions
for'the Missouri river north and west
of Kansas City for snagging and clear
ing the channel:
From Kansas City to Sioux City,
a distance of 415 miles, an appropria
tion of $50,000, together with the
amount on hand from last year, mak
ing a total of $108,000.
Sioux City to Fort Benton, a dis
tance of 1,477 miles, an appropriation
of $125,000, together with the amount
on hand from last year, making a
total of $105,000 on this reach of the
river,
It will also carry an appropriation
of $75,OvQ for the Improvement of the(
Mtdcnllrl ll'lt- nt T otrn PnnfMM'
the government will spend dollar for
trary.
The people should get busy at once
Uo that work may begin as soon as the
bill passes.
ARE SICK OF SEATTLE
1 tneir nomes in san i-ranciso.
W. K. Boeing, whose fortune was
acquired In lumber, and who has re
cently become an aviation enthusiast,
is one of those declaring his intention
to moe to California. From his cel
lars the bherlff took $10,000 worth of
rare vintages, some of which had been
acquired originally by Mr. Boeing's
father.
D. E. Skinner, whose house was
San Francisco. Skinner formerly re
sided in San Francisco, but more re
cently had built a $50,000 house here.
After the sheriffs raid at his new
home he declared that he preferred
San Francisco.
J. C. Eden Is the third millionaire
to declare hla Intention of moving to
San Francisco, Eden's apartments at
the Rainier club were recently raided
and $2,000 worth of choice wines taken
by the sheriff. Eden is the president
of the Superior Portland Cement
company and a man of high financial
rating.
(Continued on Page Eight)
JUDGE THOMAS F.
jbbBBEMKbbbBf
ybbbbSHbbbbT T-t V
BHBBBht
BMTBMBBM Jt i4
JUDGE THOMAS F. RYAN t
While it was generally known heretofore that Judge Thomas
F. Ryan, the present efficient criminal judge of Buchanan county,
would be a candidate for the honorable position of judge of Divi
sion No. 3 of the circuit court, the fact that he this week makes
his formal announcement for that important place is welcome
news to his host of friends and admirers, who will now rally to
his continued support a support which they have heretofore
given him and in which their confidence and judgment has neither
been misplaced or misappropriated.
There are few better known advocates and jurists in this
part of the great West than Judge Ryan. His name is a household
word and is a synonym of honesty, worth and integrity. He is a
citizen of whom St. Joseph is justly proud, and his long residence
here and the integrity of his daily walk has made for him the
hosts of friends who at any and all times rally to his support
when their help is necessary.
Judge Ryan was for many years prior to his election to the
criminal bench one of the best known practicing attorneys of St.
Joseph, and there were few cases of importance when he was
engaged in active practice, in which he did not figure. The fact
that he made a success of his avocation had much to do with plac
ing him in the responsible position of judge of the criminal court
of this county, as it was recognized that none but the most able of
the local bar was fitted for that important place, which he has so
satisfactorily filled.
Another feature to which every friend of Judge Ryan points
with pardonable pride, is his administration of the juvenile court,
which he has handled since its inception in this county. Judge
Ryan has been a father to the fatherless and a guardian to the
helpless among the juvenile wards of this great county. His
record there, as on the criminal bench the most exacting and
trying of all judicial positions is an open book.
OEMOCRATIC CIVIC CLUB
A New and Important Club Is Or
ganized by Enterprising
Democrats
A new Democratic club which prom
ises to be a most important factor In
local and county politics, was organ
Ized In the Commercial block Thurs
day night when the organization was
perfected with a large number of
charter members. The object of the
club Is set out as follows:
We, the members, do declare our
selves a club for improvement of the
governments of the city, county, state
and nation; by nominating only good
clean and efficient candidates for of
fice, for the election of such candi
dates at the general election; to see
that they personally assist In the dls
charge of the duties of office: that
we assist in adanclng any civic move
ment that the club may think proper,
and for the best interests of the com
munity.
The officers elected are, J. W.
Haight. president; Dr. W. W. Gray,
vice-president; II. V. Reece, secretary;
Dr. J. C. WhltseU, treasurer; H.
llerschenroeder. sergeant-at-arms.
These five officers and the following
form the board of directors: D. V.
Johnson, M. J. Maroney, A. G. Hamm,
J. B. Maloney, Allen Twedell, J. A.
Whaley, Ellsha Barnes, and George
Cook.
Standing Committees were named as
follows: Civic Improvement, Robert
C. Bell, M. J. Maroney. Robert -Marshall;
by-laws, B. J. Plckell, J. C.
WhltseU, R. V. Reece; entertainment,
William Norton, H. ' J. Newberry,
Fred Gorsllne.
The new organization promises to
be an important factor in politics.
PREACHER BOUND OVER
Hastings Minister Could Not Give Ball
and Was Recommitted to
the County Jail
Mention was made in these column!
a couple of weeks ago of the arresi
'of Rev. John Ramsey, charged with
j taking a St. Joseph woman to Ne
Drasita tor unmoral purposes, ms pre
liminary occurred at Hastings last
week, and a press dispatch says:
Hastings, Neb., Feb. 10. Rev. John
Ramsey was bound over to the grand
Jury in federal court on a white slav
ery charge In a hearing before Com
missioner Addie at the federal build
ing Saturday. Ramsey was recommit
ted to the county jail and his ball fixed
RYAN A CANDIDATE
at $1,000. The government, represent
ed by District Attorney Tom Allen,
introduced testimony to prove that
Ramsey brought Mrs. May Titel into
this state from St. Joseph, Mo., for
immoral purposes. In case the grand
jury, which meets at Lincoln in May,
returns an indictment against Ramsey
he wlll be tried either at Lincoln or
Hastings. Mrs Tltel is expected to
testify In the United States district
court. She did not appear at the pre
liminary hearing today. Should there
be no indictment returned for white
slavery, Ramsey will be tried in the
district court here on the charge of
adultery.
TROUBLE AT NO. 2
Charges Are Preferred By One of the
Board Members Against Supt.
George R. Thompson
The meeting of the board of man
agers of State Hospital No. 2 on
I Thursday brought forth more than was
anticipated, as it developed the initial
movement in what is supposed to be
a plan for the reorganization oi that
institution. Charges to which the
name of Luolen J. Eastin of the board
was affixed, were filed against Dr.
George R. Thompson, superintendent
of the institution. They will be
threshed out at a special meeting to
be held Feb. 16.
The charges as preferred all center
In one v. hen summed up, and that is
alleged to "be inefficiency on the part
of the superintendent. It is stated in
the charges that he has not been in
control of his subordinates, and there
fore has lost his authority over them.
A resolution was also adopted,
sponsored by Member Villmoare, ask
ing the attorney-general to render an
opinion as to the eligibility of Steward
Jacob L. Bretz to hold his present
office. The resolution alleges that as
his time as a member of the state
legislature has not yet expired, he Is
not qualified to bold tha position that
now occupies,
SEC. GARRISON RESIGNS
Secretary of War Llndley M. Garri
son on Thursday tendered his resig
nation to the president, because the
president would not support Garri
son's continental army plan, and be
side the two did not agree on the
Philippine island question.
Henry M. Plndell of Peoria, 111., is
slated as the successor of Garrison,
whose resignation was accepted as
goon as tendered.
kLjutetf
'mSk ft.
rtlL.
Wif-irfaLfeBfc
