Sy fcive jtm fantkhtd or nt
faniiifieu1 room for rest? Advcr
ttia it ia Tke Sua aw! let it be
briaging ye ia Mmtlhing.
We want good reliable
Agents in every city and
town in the country. Write
us for terms.
VOLUME VIII. NUMBER 24. KANSAS' CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, FERBUARY 12, 191. PRICE, 5c.
The Hope of City, State and Nation is the Republican Party
MISS LILLIAN TOOLEY.
One of the race's moat brilliant and
versatile readers and a culinary ex
pert of acknowledged ability who 'Is
demonstrating the baking possibili
ties of the famous l-H flour at various
race stores,, churches and entertain-'
ments and recently demonstrated at
Wilsons' Grocery, 2447 Woodland
Avenue; Arnett's, Twenty-fifth and
Euclldi Berry's, 1900 East Seven
teenth; Williams; 1503 East Twenty
fourth; Washington's, Eleventh and
Mlchloan; Claybourne's 945 Wash
ington Blvd., K. C. K.;and at num
erous church and school entertain
ments throughout the city.. As a
demonstrator she cannot be surpassed.
A COURAGEOUS BISHOP REBUKES
GRAFT.
Birmingham, Ala. Before the North
Alabama conference, of the African
Methodist Episcopal ZIon church, Bish
op -J. W. Alstork of Montgomery who
la presiding, let It be known In no un
certain language that ho could not
be influenced In his work by any spe
cial gifts or offerings and discouraged
that practice on the part of the min
isters In the conference. He told the
ministers plainly that the only thing
-that could commend them Would be
faithful service to the church and race.
"Making mo special donations will
not help at all," said Bishop Alstork.
! would rather not have them, and
I cannot discourage the practice too
emphatically. In tho first place the
preachers In a Negro conference have
npt e'nough money to be making the
bishop presents, and, In the second
place, the church has provided for the
bishop. For my part, I km perfectly
satisfied with the provision the church
has made for me, and I am expected
to serve It and my God. I can neither
by bought nor sold, and will not be
influenced In the perfomance of my
duty one iota by such gifts."
ANNOUNCEMENT.
A great revival meeting is being
held at the Second Baptist church,
Tenth and Charlotte streets, Every
body Is cordially Invited. Five hun
dred -boys wanted to attend the ser
vice next Sunday mornnig. A spe
cial sermon to boys by Rev.. S. W.
Bacote the pastor, after which free
luncheon will be served to all the boys
present.
BOYS' SUNDAY.
SUNDAY WILL BE BOYS' SUNDAY AT ALLEN CHAPEL.
" "He who saves a man savps a unit, but he who saves a boy saves
a multiplication table.". '
The services both morning and evening will be In charge of the
"Boosters."
Order of service: Frank H. Myers, Master of Ceremonies. Invoca
tion, A. W. Johnson. Scripture lesson Edgar Unthank. Address,
Randolph Wisdom, Boy's secretary Y, M. C. A. subject, "Winning a
Partner;" Solo, Where Is my Wandering Boy," J. M. Smyles. Short
sermon, Rev. Wm. H. Thomas. At 7:30, a young men's and men's ser
vice. Address by Hon. N. C. CrewB, Lawyer Geo. L. Vaughn of St. Louis,
and Prof. Joe E. Herrlford. Music by the choir under Prof. R. G. Jack
son. . -
' . FREDERICK DOUGLASS
i
The Most Brilliant Statesman and, Most Courageous and Gallant Defender
the' Race HasEver Produced.
ALLEN CHAPEL.
We are look'lng forward to the Coun
ty Fair one of the fixed . entertain
ments of the church, which will take
place during the month of April. Tie
same officers were unanimously elect-,
ed this year. The minister Is anxious
'to secure about twenty homes for
-delegates to the Presiding Elders'
Council of the Fifth Episcopal district.
Allen Is Joyously anticipating a visit
lr6m Bishop J. Albert Johnson. Sunt
day morning Rey. Thomas preached
' from' the 15 Chapter of Luke and the
text was: And he said: "Son thou
are ever with mo and all Uiat I have
, Is tiilno." The minister's subject was
the parable ot the elder -son and he
made It so. clear that the elder Bon
was really worse than the prodigal
son for he was possessed with a life
ot self righteousness. Ho was a re
spectable sinner and they are many
like the sands ot the sea. Sunday
evening the minister preached from
the text: And there was. a famine in
the land and Abram went down into
Egypt to sojourn for a famine griev
ous Svas in the land. Ills subject
was a "False step."' The minister said
in the course ot his sermon that tho
Bible-presented only one perfect char
acter, and for this reason the infidels
were unable to say- that tho Bible
, rpni. The sermon
was clear and forceful. The chol is
receiving; many compliments, on uio
aweet and touching hymns they are
singing to tho congregation; Every
body likes those stirring gospelhymns.
Gus us more of them
COLORED OFFICERS IN THE REGU
LAR. ARMY.
In the regular army there are three
officers of the line and foui" regiment
al explains, The line officers -are
Major Charles Young and First Lieu
tenant Benjamin O. Davis, ot the 9th
Cavalry, and First Lieutenant Charles
Green oil the 25th Infantry. The regl
mental chaplains are Captain George
W. Prioleau, 9th Cavalry; First lieu
tenant W. W. Gladden, 24th Infantry;
First Lieutenant O. J. W. Scott, 25th
Infantry; First Lieutenant Louis A.
Carter, 10th Cavalry. In addition to
the above there are commissioned off!
cers on the retired list as follows:
Major W. T. Anderson, Major John
R, Lynch and Captain G. T. Stewart
Major Anderson and Captain Stewart
were chaplains. Major. John R. Lynch
was a paymaster. Major Young is a
graduate from West Point, and was
in the class that graduated June 15th,
1881. Davis and Green came up from
the ranks,
PROMINENT NEGROES MEET.
A meeting of tho leading Negro Re.
publicans of tho Middle West has been
called to meet In tho Assembly room
ot tlLO Kansas City Sun Tuesday,
February 22nd, 'by Hon. B. T. Barbour,
of El Reno, Okla., temporary chair
man. Among the distinguished men
who will, .be In attendance are John If.
Pegg, inspector ot weights and meas
ures, Omaha; Hon. George H. Wood
son, Buxton, Ia.; W. T. Francis, SL'
Paul, Minn.; George W. Gross, of Den
ver; F, .H. McNeal, Silver City, New
Mexico; "rhos. Campbell, Denver; John
L., Thompson and J. B. Rush, Des
Moines, la., J. Coody .Jonnson, We
woka S. J Hilton, Luther;' and and
T. Barbour of El Reno, Okla,; NIch
Chiles of Topeka; Homer G. Phillips
and I. II. Bradbury, of St. Louis; J. R,
A.. Crossland qt St. Joseph,. Hon E. H,
Wright and Alderman Oscar Dopries't,
of Chicago, and W. C. Hueston, N. C.
Crews, F. V. Dabney, of Kansas City.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
The Saviour of His Country and Liberator of a Race. ,
"With malice toward none but charity to all, that government of the peo
'pie, for the people and by the people, shall not perish."
THE ARMY TO GEORGIA?
The Senate of the United States has been tho s$ne of vio
lent debate within the last two 'weeks over the Mexican ques
tion. Nineteen citizens of the United States were murdered
while on Mexican soil, by bandits. It was cruel mutd'er and the
mind of "every right thinking American citizen revolts at the
outrage. Whole .pages of senatorial oratory were poured out
demanding that the government assert itself and defend the
rights of its citizens. At least one senator declared 'that if he
were at the head of the government he would immediately order'
the troops' of this country across the border in pursuit of the
brigands. Several senators declared that it was the most sacred
duty of our government to protect our citizens no matter where
they might be on foreign soil and if they should be wronged in
either person or property that the might of this nation should
be exercised in compelling the nation which permitted or sanc
tioned the wrong to make reparation.
Host of us will sanction that doctrine to the extent that we
insist that the just rights of United States citizens shall be pro
tected no matter where, they may be. At the same time that
the walls of the senate' chamber were resounding with the in
dignant oratoiy of senators all of whom Avill permit somebody
else to do the'avenging if any is done, a mob was hanging fiye
poor, ignorant and defenseless Negroes in Georgia. Every one
of them was a citizen of the United States as well as a citizen
of Georgiaand although black and poor, were entitled to the
protection of the law of their own state and the protection of
the general government, as much 'as the nineteen citizens who
were murdered by Mexican bandits.
But nothing will be done to punish the members of the mob
which murdered these Negroes and deprived them of their right
of trial by a jury. Tho crimo will not even be denounced in tfie
pressiexcept by a few papers, and they located far from the
scene of the murder. When a mob ha'nged a white man who had
been tried and convicted of a horrible crime, although the proof
of his guilt was not clear and convincing to the minds of a great
many people who read the gist of the evidence at the trial, the
net of the mob was denounced by a majority of the papers both
North and South as a blot on the fnirymme of Georgia.
It was a blot, and the criticism was just, but why the sil
ence now? Is it true that in this laud of boasted freedom a man
whose skin happens to be black is not entitled to protection
from his state or government? Admit, if you please, that on
the average he stands lower in the scale of intelligence, educa
tion and morals than the white race, that fact supplies the
greater reason why he should be protected in his rights under
the law.
To whom much is given from him much is required. There
is less excuse for members of the white race being criminals
than there is for members of the black race, for the reason that
their opportunities for knowing the right are greater. -Senator
Hoke Smith of Goorgia grows red in the face as he denounces
the British government for interfering with the profits of ex
porters of cotton, but utters never a word of criticism of the au
thorities of his own state for permitting the murder of its citi
zens who happen to be black. Mail and Breeze, Topeka, Kan.
LINCOLN .HIGH SCHOOL EXTENSION
MONTHLY SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT
MEETING
JUDGE R. S. LATSHAW
Of Jackson County Criminal Court
Will Speak at x
LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL AUDITORIUM
10TH AND TRACY
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 20TH AT 3 P. M
. Subject:
' 4 'PUBLIC EDUCATION THE REMEDY FOR CRIME '
SPECIAL MUSIC by Lincoln High School Orchestra
THE ENTIRE PUBLIC IS INVITED
SEEING CLEARLY
BY B. L. LONGDON, Chlllicothe, Mo.
A few things we see clearly. Ono
of them Is that tho present month Is
notable as bringing the birthday of a
very unusual number of great men.
From this group ot immortals we men.
tlon George Washington, Abraham
Lincoln, Richard Allen, and Frederick
Douglass. Without vVashlngton the
Jealousies and selfishness of local
leaders would probably have made
American Revolution a failure. With
out Abraham Lincoln the United
States could scarcely have survived
the crisis of 18G1; and without Rich
ard Douglass the champion ot an op
pressed race the prejudice and op
pression in church and state might
not have revealed the fact that the
Negro can only breathe freely In an
atmosphere of freedom.
Another thing we see clearly Is that
from the beginning to end of the pub
lic career ot Washington, Lincoln, Al
len and Douglass they so regulated
tho development ot their plans as tc
have public sentiment sustain their
cause. Their judgment like their per
ceptions, far outran not only the av
erage mind, but often the acumen of
their wisest counsellors and co-work-
ers. They were charged by some with
going too fast and too far, and by
others with moving too slowly. We
excuse their criticism because "great
men stand like solitary towers in the
city of God and secret their thoughts
intercourse with higher intelligences
which strengthen and console them
and of which the laborers on the sur
face do not even dream.
One thing we see clearly Is that
whoever strives to do righteously
thereby makes himself the brother or
sister of all the righteous. Daniel
of old claims kinship with every man
who is brave enough to do right at
all hazards; and the army of the
prophets and saints and martyrs of
whom the world was not worthy re
celvo into their ranks whoever bears
atrue testimony la his day and suf
fers for conscience sake. And now
that we see 'this pleasing truth very
clearly we venture to say that Wash
ington, Lincoln as well as Allen and
Douglass are our brothers in the kin
ship of the soul, and all they who
snuffer patiently who labor faithfully
who give cheerfully and who sacri
fice ungrudgingly, who face danger
bravely who conquer temptation reso
lutely, who love their fellows un
feignedly and -who believe that. ''God's
creature is one." He makes man, not
men. His true creature is unitary and
Infinite, regarding himself indeed. In
every finite form, but compromised
by none."
PROPOSED MODEL NEGRO TENE
MENTS. Hundreds ot eminently respectable
Negro families aro compelled by cir
cumstances to live and bring up their
children under degrading, If not actu
ally immoral, Influences, These people
would ruch to fill! proper quarters if
they could obtain them at a reasona
ble rent. For the general welfare of
tho city, as well as for the particular
welfare of tho Negroes, a determined
effort must be made to house them
properly.
While the plan for housing the Ne
gro population in Harlem should be
comprehensive and not limited to ojie
or two units, we feel that a start
should be made on a reasonably small
scale, and propose tho first develop
ment on a plot covering eighty city
lots (about 200x100 feet). A tene
ment building on such a plot, in ac
cordance with the model plans and
specifications of the city and suburb
an homes company, can be erected at
a cost not to exceed $288,000, includ
ing the cost of the land. Such a tene
ment would have the following ac
commodations and scale ot weekly
rentals: 90 rooms arranged as 4-room
apt. with bath, at $1.40 per room; 180
rooms arranged as 3-room. apt, with
bath, at $1.40 per room; 108 rooms
arranged as 3-room apt. no bath, at
i.25 per room; 100 rooms arranged
as 2-room apt. with bath, at $1.70 per
room; 40 rooms arranged as 2-room
ant. no hath, at $1.40 per room.
Southern Workman.
TENNIS ASSOCIATION
MEETING
Wednesday, February 16, 1916
8:00 p. m.
at the Y. M. C. A.
BUSINESS OF GREAT IMPORTANCE
PREPAREDNESS
For next August's St. Louis. Meet.
MRS. DELLA SANDUSKY WAT
KINS. The charming wife of the Grand Mas
ter of Odd Fellows and the best
nurse Kansas City has ever known
who Is a veritable angel of mercy
and with a medical knowledge, will
ing hands and sunny disposition has
carried sunshine Into the homes of
many and who from the mere pleas
ure of serving her friends and re
lieving distress denies herself many
hours of pleasure and rest to be
at their bedside.
CHRISTIAN CHURCH.
Twenty-fourth and Woodland.
Sunday School at 9:45 a. m. Preach
ing at 11:00 a. m. and 7:45 p. m.
Christian Endeavor at 0:45 p. m, R. C.
Pierce, pastoring.
Ex-Judge Mayo ot Chicago will
preach Sunday evening. All Invited.
A NEAR TRAGEDY.
While Dr. T. C. Un'haiilc. one of our
most prominent physicians, was driv
ing his automobile rorth on the I'aseo
last' Thursday afternoon, his car was
struck by a truck of th) Emery, I.ird
Thayer D. Jr. Co., .it io:a street, ai.d
almost nomnletel; wrec-ki".. l:i ibo
car was Dr. W. II Thomas, pastor it
Allen Chapel, and Mrs. N". C. Ciev3,
wife of't'je oil! tor, en rr-ule to a meet
ing of the Bazaar Committee at Allen
Chapel, r.nl it Is :i miracle that they
escaped lnjtv.it death. As it was both
were severely biiken up and received
severe bntecs, but no serious compli
cations have arisen thus far.
SECOND BAPTIST CHURCH.
The president Introduced a new fea
ture In tho B. Y. P. U. last Sunday
that Is covenant meeting which was
very interesting. Every girl and boy
In the Union testified. The attend
ance was 72. Next Sunday Boys Day,
the boys will take charge and conduct
the B. Y. P. U. The services last
Sunday were excellent. In the morn
lng Dr. Bacote delivered a fine sermon
to a large congregation. The evening
services were devoted to Covenant
meeting and the Lord's Supper. We
now have a series ot meetings and
every Christian is asked to join with
us In God's name to fight sin and Satan
and to be instrumental in saving souls.
EBENEZER A. M. E. CHURCH.
Great revival meeting .Is in progress
at Ebenezer. The Rev. W. B, Nichols
6t Joplln A. M. B. church Is preaching
powerful gospel sermons every night.
Backsliders are. being reclaimed and
persons converted. Tho. revivalist Is
certainly a live wire and few men can
withstand his arguments and sermons.
ou are invited to come.
W. O. WILLIAMS,
Minister,
INCORRIGIBLLE HOME BOARD
ELECTS.
The Board ot Managers of the In
corrigible Homo for Tsegro Girls at
Tipton, Mo., met last week and se
lected the following officers. Mrs.
Fannie Oliver, St. Louis, Supt.; Mrs.
Sadie Talton, Kansas City, and Mrs.
Emma Parker, Clayton, teachers;
Mrs. Ella Lane ot Jefferson City,
housekeeper.
Mrs, Oliver, tho superintendent,
is an early graduate ot Lincoln In
stitute, and many years ago taught
school la Calloway County but for
the past twenty yers she has been
engaged In rescue work in St. Louis
and is now matron of a girls res
cue home there. She haB never been
an active applicant for tho position
but her appointment wbb urged by
the White Federation ot Women's
clubs. . It is thought by many, how
ever, that she will not accept tho po
sition. In tho selection ot the other em
ployees it is said that politics play-
ed an important' part. Mrs. Lane,
who was elected housekeeper. Is the
wife, of , Chas. B. Lane, who Is janl
tor ot Gov. .Major's offtco and. Sirs
Talton is the wife of Prof. J. L, Tat
ton of Kansas City, who Is an active
Democrat., It is announced, that the
Institution will not be open until
April 1, which it is thought is due
to the bankrupt conditions ot the
state treasury.
DR. BOOKER T. WASHINGTON
The Mighty Leader of a Race "Who Loved Him In Life and Loved Him In
Death."
In his memory the citizens of Greater Kansas City will hold a public
meeting at Polytechnic High School, 11th and Locust streets, Sunday after
noon at 2:30 p. m February 13.
Reasons for Your Coming: Ex-Mayor Henry M. Beardsley, an orator of
National reputation, will be the principal speaker, and other prominent
speakers. Lincoln High School Glee Club and Prof. R. G. Jackson'a
chorus ot 100 voices selected from the best choirs of tho city, will furnish
an exceptional musical program.
The National Negro Business League meets here in August. Dr. Wash,
ington was its president. Tho eyes of tho nation are on usi so let us show
proper respect to his memory.
Our next Sunday night meeting will be at Pleasant Green Baptist
church. Independence avenue and Tracy, 7:30 sharp. Regular League meet
ing first and third Thursday in each month at Y. M. C. A. -rooms.
THE . PULLMAN PORTERS' BENE
FIT ASSOCIATION.
The Pullman Porters' Benefit Asso
ciation will give its first entertain
ment nt the Paseo Y. M. C. A. from
to 5 p. m., Thursday, February 17.
A delightful muslcale and supper in
cafeteria.
W. A. JARRETT, Chairman.
V. D. HARRIS,
GUS BAILEY.
W. P. MIMMS,
D. G, EMERY.
Committee.
They are sparing no pains to make
it a success and expect all the men
with their families and friends to turn
out In force and mako it the grand
est event of the season. Several emi
nent speakers, In fact the best talent
available, will be on the program.
A Thought for tho Week Let us
emphasize the fact, and keep on em
phasizing It, that we must encourage
trade and business development
among ourselves; that we must cease
more and more to be a wage earning
class; that we must buy and sell more
among ourselves, so that we can have
the profit that Is to. be made and thus
make good openings for our sons and
daughters to bo tradesmen in their
turn. Philadelphia Tribune.
LIFE, HEALTH AND ACCIDENT IN
SURANCE. We give $100 funeral benefits with
our accident policies. You can read
ily see that the Fidelity is meeting
our needs. Should you have a Fidelity
policy and die from sickness we will
give your beneficiary $100 as funeral
expenses, and should you die from an
accident we will give from $100 to
$2,000, according to the monthly pre
mium paid. See one of the Fidelity
agents today and let him insure you.
Because If by reason you are laid off
front your work because of sickness
or accident Fidelity will place you on
its pay roll. You can see wo have a
fine contract, because we pay any
way you die as well as pay you when,
you aro sick. Then get a Fidelity con
tract Now hide your little hammer
and don't be a knocker, because no
body gets stuck on a knock. Our of
fice is with the Standard Life Insur
nncq Company, 1507 'East 18th street.
Bell phone East 4955.
Agents A. C. Harper, Louis Wheel
er, 2024 Harrison ;John L. Allen, 1607
East 14th street. - -
R. O,' JOHNSON, Manager.
AGENTS WANTED.
t
