THE BARJRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO.- 282.
HAKKK, VERMONT, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1U1H.
PRICK, OXK CEXT.
GERMAN LINE
. PUNCTURED
AT MASSIGES
German Official Statement
Admits Loss of Positions
Covering 200-Yard Front
in Champagne District,
and French Official State
ment Tells of Success
INFANTRY ATTACK
4 FOLLOWED ARTILLERY
Russia Is Showing Unusual
Aggressiveness in South
ern Russia and in Galicia,
Having Made Consider
able Advance in Bukowina
ALLEGED SWINDLER
SUSPECTED OF PLOT
Berlin, via London, Feb. 12. After a
violent artillery bombardment of a great
er part of the Champagne district, French
yinfantry made an attack yesterday af ter-
noon. xne utrmaii war uuiw wuiuuuicu
to-day that the French penetrated Ger
man positions near Massiges over a front
of about 200 yards.
Paris, via London, Feb. 12. Fighting
in Champagne, the French war office an
nounced this afternoon, resulted in the
French forces securing possession of cer
tain trenches occupied by Germans.
The latest reports from the western
front indicate successes for the French
in winning back some of the positions
lost in tho recent nibbling of the Ger
mans at the lines in Artois and smith
of the Somme.
1 From South Russia and Galicia come the
announcements that the Russian offen
sive is assuming considerable propor
tions but without striking results being
; iohievcd thus far. Otherwise compara
tive calm prevails in widespread war
area.-
In preparation for eventualities around
Saloniki the allies are strengthening
their positions and extending their lines.
The French have advanced across the
Vardar northwest of tho city, encamp
ing on the right bbank of the river,
In Albania the Austrians are reported
as marching on Duraiso with a force of
3ff,000. Home of the Montenegrins are
reported not to have disarmed and to
be offering stiff resistance.
Apparently the Russians are preparing
to puan still further their aggressive on
orations along the Bcssarablan front.
twhere tbey have been menacing the Aus
jian lines in Bukowina. Important
troop movements in Bessarabia are in
Jlieated in Hucharest advices.
"Dr." J. Grant Lyman Has Been Engaged
in German Propaganda Work, Ac
cording to Post office Inspectors.
New York, Fib. 12. "Dr." J. Gran
Lyman, who is being sought by the IV
oral authorities hero nil a charge
swindling investors in mining stocks out
of .'KK),lHM or $40:,000, by illegal use.
of the mails under the inline of'Jolin 1
Putnam, has been engaged in Germs
propaganda, according to a statemen
mailt) last night bv tHiatofflee inspectors,
It is charged that lie has been supplying
men prominent in governmental circled
in Berlin with information obtained
from the wife of a English army oilier
said to be a member of the Urit ih gen
eral staff serving in r ranee.
I.vman, the authorities say, met the
British officer s (w ife in London, where ho
went after being convicted in j.o An
geles in 1014 for mail swindles and jump
ing his ball. It is asserted that she
came with him to this country but re
turned some time ago.
Lyman, it also developed last night
was once a member of the iew lorK
stock exchange. He was forced to sell
his seat, it was said, because he engaged
in the promotion of questionable enter
prides, including r-inc mines, and the gov
ernors of the exchange feared his oper
ations would cause a scandal.
MANY TOWNS REPRESENTED
At Board of Trade Meeting in Wells
River Last Night.
Wells River, Feb. 12. The annual
meeting of the Connecticut and v ells
River valleys Board of Trade was held
here last night. Fred J. Tevvksbury of
South Ryegate, president of the board,
presided, and about 100 members were
present, representing Barnet, Groton,
Topsham, Bradford, Thetford, Ryegate,
Newbury,. Corinth, Fairlee and White
River Junction.
The following officers were elected for
the coming year: President, David S.
Conant, Bradford; secretary and treas
urer, II. W. Eaton, Bradford; executive
committee, Col. II. T. Johnson, Bradford,
Gordon Smith, South Ryegate, Xelson
Bailey, Wells River.
After an enthusiastic business meet
ing the board adjourned to Hale's tav
ern, where, to the strains of music, by
Stark's orchestra, a banquet was served.
Colonel Reeves, U. S. A., president of
Xorwieh university, was the after-dinner
speaker, and his stirring address on "Pre
paredness was- very appropriate to the
occasion.
The board was further entertained
with vocal musical selections by Pliney
D. Bromley of Topsham, and French dia
lect readings by Prof. Leonard D. Smith
of Wells River.
SOLID SHOT
STOPPED SHIP
German Vessel Asuncion
Was Reported as Fleeing
from Rio Janeiro
BRAZILIAN WARSHIPS
STARTED PURSUIT
Blank. Shots Failing, the
Pursuers Let Loose
Several Projectiles
Kio Janeiro, Feb. 12. The German
steamship Asuncion, interned at Para,
requested permission to approach the
wharf to take water. I'nder cover of a
fog she turned about and headed toward
he sea. The Brazilian cruiser Republicn
ami the auxiliary Telle hred blank shot
and when the Asuncion failed to stop
hred on her with projectiles, whereupon
the German steamer stopped and re
turnod to the harbor. The captain of the
Asuncion later stated that he had no in
ention of escaping. The authorities have
tarteil an investigation.
The Asuncion is owned bv the Ham
burg-South American Steamship com
any and had been reported as remain
ing voluntarily at Para.
DELIVERY OF MAIL
BY AEROPLANE
HER SECOND CONVICTION.
BRITISH DENY
LOSS OF CRUISER
Say It Was a Mine Sweeper Which the
Germans Sunk Claim Was Made
By Official Statement at
Berlin. .
London, Feb. 12. A Berlin official
statement received here yesterday claims
that a British cruiser has been sunk by
a German torepdo boat craft and another
British cruiser torpedoed. The British
.-yfTicial press bureau denies this, and In
"licstes that it was . ono of four mine
sweepers that was sunk.
The text of the German statement fol
lows:
"On the night of the 10th and 11th,
during an advance of our torpedo boats,
our boats met on the Doggerbank some
120 sea rmlns of the English coast, sev
eral English cruisers which at once fled.
Our boats pursued them and sniik the
new cruiser Arabia, and obtained a hit
with a torpedo on a second cruiser... Our
torpedo boats rescued the commander of
the Arabia with two other officers and
21 men. Our forces suffered damage but
no Inanes."
STATE OFFICIAL ARRESTED.
Minnesota's Treasurer Indicted for Al-
leged Misappropriation.
St. Paul, Minn., Feb. 12. Walter J.
Smith, Minnesota state treasurer, was
placed under the surveillance of two dep
uty sheriffs at a Minnesota sanitarium
last night following bis indictment by a
county grand Jury here in connection
with alleged misappropriation of state
funds. A warrant for Ida arrest will be
served as soon as he is in condition to
be removed to this city, it was said.
R. C. Pickit. former clerk of the state
in eminent hoard, is tinder arrest on two
indictments charging forgery In connec
tion with the same irregularities involv
ing Smith. All fun .Is said to have been
obtained through forgery, aggregating
more than 2S,Ooo, have been repaid, offi
cials assert.
But Burlington Woman Was Put on Pro
bation. Burlington, Feb. 12. Mrs. Etta Gross
man, whose store at 301 Xorth Winoo
ski avenue was searched for intoxicat
ing liquor with results last Saturday
night, was found guilty on the charge of
keeping intoxicants on hand with intent
to sell, at her trial held in city court
yesterday afternoon, and was sentenced
to spend not less than four nor more
than six months at the house of correc
tion at Rutland, the sentence being sus
pended and the woman being placed in
the hands of the probation officer for a
period of one year. This is the woman's
second conviction on a similar charge.
The United States Poitoffice Department
Asks Bids For Service from New
Bedford to Nantucket, -
Washington. D. C, Feb. 12. Aerial
mail service between New Bedford and
Nantucket, Mass., and over seven isolated
routes in Alaska are contemplated by
the postofiice department. Bids were
asked to-day for service on these routes.
Oct. 1 is named as the date for starting.
Some of the routes in Alaska require
six weeks in winter and cost the govern
ment as high as $100,imx) annually. The
aeroplane contracts allow two days for
most of the trips.
COMMERCIAL TEACHERS CONFER.
OUT FOR ROOSEVELT.
Four dassachusetts Men Want to Go to
. Republican Convention.
Boston, Feb. 12. Announcement of the
candidacies of Grafton D. dishing,
Charles Sumner Bird, A. P. Gardner and
Robert Washburn for delegates-at-large
to the Republican national convention,
pledged "to Theodore Roosevelt as the
party candidate for president last night.
In a point statement the candidates
said:
"We promise to give everyone a chance
to know for what he is voting in the
primaries. We don t want to go un
pledged. We want Roosevelt for presl
dent."
Temporary Organization Was Perfected
at Burlington.
Burlington, Feb. 12. Vermont's flint
commercial conference was held yester
day at the high school building with a
registration of 43 commercial teachers
from all parts of the state. A tempora
ry organization was effected with Irving
V. Colbleigh and Miss r ranees h. War
ner of the faculty of the Burlington high
school as president and secretary, re
spectively. A committee of three, con
sisting of Irving V. Cobleigh of Burling
ton, Ira Richardson of Montpelier and
Miss Grace Gates of Morrisville, was ap
pointed to confer with the state commit
tee of education with reference to se
curing a more adequate representation
of commercial education in the state at
Vermont's teacher convention.
After effecting tho temporary organ
isation minietiia leiy upon me convening j
of the afternoon session, James P. Tay
lor, secretary of the Grerfter Vermont
association, made a short address, offer
ing to furnish the teachers with litera
ture from his office showing the commer
cial needs of the state. He said that
the great need of Vermont agriculture
to-day was an up-to-date system of
bookkeeping. Irving V. Cobleigh of the
commercial department of the Burlington
high school then gave a review of com
mercial education in Vermont, Spring-
field was the first town to place a com
VERDICT OF ONE CENT.
Secured By Auto Owner Against Another
in Rutland.
Rutland, Feb. 12. A verdict of one
cent was awarded Ccorga W. )oiiahue
from John W. Farrell after two days'
trial in Buthuid city court, the suit being
brought to recover damages to an auto
mobile sustained in collision with the
Farrell csr south of this city.
At near as it could lie found out it
was a compromise verdict, for the jur
ors were at one time so badly split in
their ideas that they were forced to re
turn to the court room' for the purpose
of having parts of the testimony read.
They were out more than two hours.
Machines driven by Bert l)onahue,
brother of the plaintiff, ami Mr. Farrell,
tho defendant, came together on the
highway south of the Cramton farm in
the town of I'utland and each claims
the other to blame. Donahue sued Far
rell for $200 damages and Farrell sued
Donahue for $2ixi damages, the machines
in 'each instance being attached.
The case was started Thursday morn
ing at 1) o'clock and it was completed at
7 o'clock last night. TJuring the trial of
the cause the defense brought out the
fact that the Donahue car was never
registered after being transferred from
the agent to the owner, the law calling
tor the tiling of these papers nv days
alter the transaction. A motion to di
rect a verdict in favor of tho defense
on these grounds was argued and over
ruled by Judge F. G. Swinnertou.
SHELL-MAKING
FIRM DAMAGED
Canada Car & Foundry Co,
at Montreal Has a
$50,000 Fire
ATTEMPTED PLOT
AT NIAGARA FALLS
Bethlehem Steel Works at
Newcastle, Delaware,
Was Wrecked
LONG A GRANITEVILLE RESIDENT.
Mrs. Marceline Bilodeau Died Yesterday
of Apoplexy.
Mrs. Marceline Bilodeau, aged 7S years,
died Friday morning at 3 o'clock at the
home of her daughter, Mrs. James La
point, in Graniteville, but in the town
of Washington. She had been ill about
two weeks, following an attack of apoplexy.
Mrs. Bilodeau was born in Quebec, but
for the past 24 years had lived in (Iran
iteville. Her husband, Francis Bilodeau,
died 2r years ago. Besides the daughter
with whom he lived, she is survived by
six sons. .Morris and illiam of Granite
ville, Israel of Thetford Mines, Canada,
Alphonse of Manchester, X. 1L, Theodore
and rred of Williamstown.
The funeral will Ik? held in the Cath
olic church in Graniteville Monday
morning at 0 o'clock, Rev. Fr. Turcot
officiating. Burial will be in the Catholic
cemeterv in this citv.
Montreal. Feb. 12. Fire to-day did
lamage estimated to be $o0,000 in the
forge department of the Canada Car and
Foundry company, which is engaged on
a contract for shells for the Russian gov
ern ment. Crossed electric, wires are said
to have been the cause of the fire. -
PLOT ATTEMPT FAILED.
MONTPELIEK
High School Team Showed Good Form
and Hardwick Lost, 52 to 21.
Montpelier high school's basketball
team bv playing the best game of the
year last evening in armory hall easily
defeated Hardwick academy by the score
of 52 to 22 in an exceedingly fast game.
Despite the one-sided score, which ex
isted almost from the start of the con
test, spectators were treated to a whirl
wind exhibition, the visitors playing bard
all' tho time, even although outclassed
in floor work and shooting.
Lewis, the diminutive forward, whose
work has always been conspicuous when
ever Hardwick played in this city, failed
to shine at all last evening, missing time
and again, when he should have caged the
ball easily.
Jangraw was opposed to a player at
least four inches taller, but managed to
jump with him every time and the team
work displayed by the locals was a rev
elation. Gross captured tho honors with
nine liaskets to his credit, although he
was closely pressed bv Clark w ith eight
and four baskets from fouls to his cred-
Severa! Windows of Factory Smashed
at Niagara Falls.
Niagara Falls. X. Y Feb. 12. An at
tempt was made to blow up the Cast-
tier Electrolitic Alkali company's plant
here shortly before midnight. I ho ex
plosion shattered many windows but
failed to damage the foundations, Super
intendent C. F. Vaughan said. Several
,-ticks of dvnamite were found near the
base of one of the walls by the police.
TREMENDOUS EXPLOSION.
Wrecked Building at Bethlehem Steel
Works in Newcastle, Del.
Newcastle, Del., Feb. 12. Six hundred
pounds of powder exploded in a dryhouso
at the projectile plant of the Bethlehem
Steel company near here last night, in
juring two workmen and completely
wrecking the building, the cause ot the
explosion has not been determined. There
was no one in the uryhouse at the lime
the injured men being employed in an
adjoining building. Several nearby struc
tures were damaged slightly.
The force of the blast was terrific and
was felt for miles around. The financial
loss is trivial.
FULL APPRECIATION
OF FINE CONCERT
WAS BLOWN OUT
OF MOTOR SLOOP
Captain of a Fishing Vessel
Lost Life Off Port
land Harbor
VESSEL WAS SUNK
BY THE EXPLOSION
A
Three Seamen, Burned JV-
ly, Escaped in Dory 0 V
to Be Frostbitt'
'
CANADIANS FEARED:
GERMAN INVASION
AT NIAGARA FALLS
TALK OF THE TOWN
IS KILLED IN MINE
And Many More Wert Injured at Wrest,
Pa.
Indiana. Pi-, Feb. 12. Sixteen men ara
aid to have been killed, 19 injured and
about t'-ght mora entombed by an ex
plosion of gas late yeetwday in mine Xo.
2 of the Jefferson and Clearfield Coal
Iron company at Wrt, six miles from
here.
Jame MeGtiir. aged 30. one of the
rTi. who was vereoma by gss and
brought here late last night. sid that
before he left, 13 lis Here brought
to t-s surtax
Checklists for the six wards in the city
have been posted in the corridor at city
hall in anticipation of the board of civil
authority meetings that are to precede
the annual March election. I hue tar II
changes hare been made in the list, many
of them having been occasioned by death
or removals, although there are the usual
number of changes made on account of
removals from one ward to another.
Voters will do well to scan the checklists.
Meetings of the board of civil authority
have been arranged for the evening or
Feb. 24 and the evenings of March 1 and
2. The meetings are to be held each night
at 7 o'clock in the court room at citv
hall.
Xesrly 40 young people participated
ast night in the annual winter outing
of the Park club, an organiration devot
ed to the furtherance of sociability. In
R. Lynn Clark's auto truck the club
members and their invited guests went
to East Montpelier, where an ovster sup- ,
per was served in the village hall at S
o'clock. Thereafter there was a linhjue
program of dsncing, music being fur
nished by a club orchestra made up of
Miss Mary Will and Alphonse enetti
pianist, and W. Milne, violinist. The
partv was chaperoned bv Mr. nd Mrs,
William Milne and the return to Barre
was made shortly before midnight. The
committee in charge of the outing con
sisted of .lames Bainbridge. Louis To
masi, A. Venetti, 8. Watkins and George
IJvendale.
Angelo Roinelli. for 20 years prom
inent Barre granite cutter and well
known In the Italian community of the
city, died at his borne in Colgiate, prov
ince of tomo, Italy, recently, accordirg
to a letter received here by a friend.
Mr. Roesinel'i was 4a years old an 1 un
married. Twenty-two years ago he came
to Barre from Italy and hgan work sa
a granite curtr, having learned bis
trade in the homeland. For many he
was employed by Canton Proa, pairing
his rwideno here he made the acquain
tance of manv Ital-an people and hi
lt, and Jangraw made five.
For the Hardwick aggregation, Mc
Leod played a clever game, and scored
eight points with half as many baskets,
and Thompson twice excited the small
crowd of spectators by dribbling the en
tire length of the hall for baskets.
To-night the Hardwick live tackles the
seminary team, and from the form dis
played last evening, the contest should
be practically a toss-up as to the win
ner. The summary:
Montpelier Hardwick
mercial course in its schools in 1!M)5, and : Cross, f b, Cordelia
now 40 towns and cities have some form Clarity., ...b, Thompson
of commercial education. Mr. Cobleigh Jangraw, c c. Murphy, McLeod
emphasized the need for standardization Rape, g....-, i.f, Mcleod, Lewis
of this form of education and also showed
the difference between commercial cdu
cation in the high school and in the bus-
Smith, g f, Campbell
Score Montpelier 52, Hardwick 22.
Basket Cross il, Clark 8, Jangraw i.
Force of Soldiers and Three Machine
Guns Were Sent There and the Men
Slept Under Arms Last
Night.
Niagara Falls, X. V., Feb. 12. Despite
the Strict censorship imposed by the Ca
nadian authorities on the dispatch of
news of a military nature, information
from reliable sources was received here
to-day of hurried precautions taken at
Niagara Falls, Ontaria, yesterday to re
sist a threatened "invasion from German
forces" from the American side.
A large number of soldiers, placed as
high as 500, and three machine guns
were rushed from .St. Catherine's and
placed on guard at the great power plant
and international bridges. The men
slept under arms last night. The report
was current that (icrinans were on their
way to the Canadian city from Buffalo.
There apparently was no foundation for
the scare.
NO GERMAN BASE IN AMERICA.
For Attatck on Canada, So Dominion
Government is Informed.
Ottawa, Ont., Feb. 2.-Tbe American
government has assured Canada, that
the L'nited States will not be used as a
base by German conspirators for attack
ing Canada, according to a statement
made in the Dominion Parliament last
naval
iness couege ana now eacn supplied an- j Mcleod 4. i hompson l ordella 2, l'ape by J. I) Hazen minister of
ferent needs. Hp spoke also of tlie need ,1, Smith 1 From fouls Clark 4, Cordelia, Uffajrs
of recognition of commercial education j MeI.eod Referee, Cullen; umpire, Gal- I am very clad " said Mr. Hazen,
in tlie state educational conterences. lagher Scorers, Kardelli and Stanton ,.lr th- House that ev
MARBLE WORKERS STRIKE.
About I2S Employes of Vermont Marble
Co. at Danby Quit Work.
Danby, Feb. 12. Tho first labor trou
ble for many years in this section de
veloped Thursday when about 125 em
ployes of the Vermont Marblo company
to
erv possible
Time, two 20-minute periods. (precaution is lieing taken to see that
points along the frontier which might
Ihtf little son of Mr. and Mrs. John F. i. r.,.ij .tratppir ami where there
Hall of 322 Elm street, died last even
ing from pneumonia, after a few days'
illness. The child was eight months old.
The funeral will probably be held to
morrow afternoon from the house.
The Firs, Congregational church- eor-
quit work, causing the shut down of Prstion ot r-pringiieia lias nied articles
three quarries. The men. it is clamed, i ot association witn tlie secretary ot
want a nine-hour day with 2.i cents in-i","lr ".- n ". iw
crease in wages. Iliere were less tiitn;"""'!""'""" u
a dozen employe remaining on duty;(i- xv- Hcrnett, H. H. Itlanchard, Eben
yesterday. , Many of the men have talked , Fullam, William Smith and Ralph C.
of leaving town unless their demands 1 landers.
are granted. At the Metholit church narsonace on
President Frank C. I artndge of the i Hublwrd street this forenoon at 10 o'clock.
Vermont Marble company was asked 'Amos E. Foster of 15 State street. Lvnn.
over the telephone yesterday if the com- jjtass and Mary Beauchaup of 71 Mar
pany had any statement to make, and et street. Lynn, Mas., were married
he said the concern bad nothing to eay.'hy rpv. William Shaw. They were un
He said that affairs at the company's attended and left this afternoon for a
Danby quarries were not causing the con
cern any anxiety.
STRUCK BY RUNAWAYS.
Mrs. William H. Taft Was Hurled to
Road and Badly Hurt.
Vergenncs. Feb. 12. Mr. William H.
Taft of Waltham, while returning yes
terday morning from the station, where
she bad been to deliver milk, was se
riously injured when as she neared the
residence of Ir. Frank C. Phelps, a dou
ble team belonging to Henry llallmk.
hich was running awav. colinlcd with
the wagon driven by Mrs. Taft. She was
thrown to the ground and renIered un-
eoncioii. he was taken into the oflice
of 1. Phelps. Ir. Phelps heirg awav.
,ieitm r."nt. Dr. Frank M. Rogers) ' ' " ' , -U,,-and
Dr. Edward PI Ion were ra!!e,l amlC'"1 1N'rh"!-
found that evileittlv the kul was i In eoontv court t dv. the frer-
era-ked. It wa ,ieri.ll to remote !r. !,ire ittoe of Martin White . P,tr snd
t t tie Marv I h-trher Kner-ital. i cTe Menwn, wa fled tr te MareS
theai was held in high esteem. He re- j where ! waa takes bv Dr. Rrers res-itim. "I heriau't A Hunt ai ier foe ti-a
turned to Italy t rears ago, teroay. j lu,t.ff.
brii-f visit before going to Springfield,
Mass., to reside. The groom is a plumber
and was born in BatTe.
Edward B. Wedge of Colebrook. X. H
a former resident of Montpelier, arrived
in the city laft night for a brief visit
with relatives, lie expects bis daughter
to arrive to-night from Texas, where she
has been residing, and he will return
with him to IVdobrook.
Mrs. F. If. Trscy left this morning for
Rutland with Msry John and Yalere
Bergonzi of Barre, who are t be com
mitted to the hone of correction for
nhort lertna Kr aiirgmi illegal liquor
t-U.ng. The John woman had appealed
to supreme court from Barre ntr court
on enceptior-s. but the higher court failed
to titain the esceptions in a decision
egarde
is a possibility of damage being done,
are protected. There is a secret service
organized for that purpose."
This announcement was made after
Mr. Pardee, the liberal whip, had direct
ed the attention of the government to
the indictment of German consular offi
cials at San Francisco.
"I am not an alarmist," said Mr. Par
dee, ''but Canadians can not help feeling
that a really grave situation exists and
that there is substantial danger removed
from us by a mere geographical line.
Crowded House Heard School Children ia
Varied Program of Songs and Saw
Youngsters Execute Intri
cate Folk Dances.
The work being done in the music de
partment of the city schools was exem
plified to the keen pleasure of a large
audience at the Barre opera houso last
evening; and it is safe to say that tho
demonstration was a revelation to the
greater part of the audience, particularly
as regards that phase of the work which
embraced folk dancing. For nearly two
hour the people were kept on tip-toe of
expectancy as one after another of the
pleasing little dances wero put on by the
young neople. while nono the less enjoy
able was the chorus singing by seventh j
and -eighth grade pupils and by higli
school students.
The program was arranged to bring
out the diversity of the music instruc
tion in the public schools, the chorus se
lections covering a w-ide range and the
milt-- ueniu ueciuciiv utiwumm,. i t,..-h , w. v- i n . . &
chort.se. were 11 nely-balanced and the "-. " ".-apvain iss
music was remarkably well interpreted. " allace of this city was killed and three
Tho results showed that distinct advance members of his crew on the motor fish
has been made in the singing, both in intr veIlin V. Wofteu. were l,,.rn.l
the high school snd the grade. . , , , , .. . . ...
More diverting perhaps because of nd ,ttt-r frost-bitten the re-
their novelty were the folk dances par- lt of a gasolene explosion which sank
ticipated in by about 150 boys and girls, the sloop ten miles off the harbor Thurs-
ranging in age from those just entering jar ftrnoon. The ev
the public school sy&tem to thow' about , , jiivio
to go into the high school. The young- f have been due to the back-firing of
sters were dressed in costumes to suit engine.
the dance numbers and they made a Captain Wallace was blown overboard
ery charming appearance on the stage, by tho force of the explosion, but the
What is more, the youngsters seemed to others were able to get into a dorr in
enjoy their work and entered into it with which they drifted about for eighteen
II the zest of real enthusiasts. As eacn I hours in a temperature below zero beloro
group tripped its way off the stage it they were finally picked tip by another
was greeted with a volley of applause fisherman which' brought them into port
which indicated in no uncertain manner to-day.
that a repetition would have been appre- ,
ciated had it seemed best to the manag- MUST TAKE SENTENCE
era to respond to encores.
There were German, Swede, Dane, R.rr. Wnm- wh. r..f Th.ir r,. i
English and Dutch figures together with
mingling of aesthetic dancing. Little . v-.v.
Germans," so far removed from the tur-1 Two Barre women, whose allejred
moil of the fatherland, skipped onto the I transactions in the illegal sale of intoxi-
stage with an entrancing children s eating liquor figured in Xovembcr and
polka, to be followed by the neutral I December citv court proceedings, were
Swedes in their wooden shoes and "clog- taken from their homes last night and
ng' it like veterans. I hose were all removed to the county jail, lo-dav they
first graders but in spite of their youth were transferred to the house of correc-
tliey executed the dances splendidly, tion at Rutland. Divisions made by Mag-
Xext came the Danes (second -graders I istrate H. W. Scott in city court were
in their intricate dance, "The Ace of upheld, and the sentences imposed at the
DiamonJs," and back again came more time of the hearings are to be carried
Swedes of somewhat advanced age over out. Mrs. Mary John and Mrs. Valerie
their brothers and sisters who had pre- Bergonzi were the principals in the two
viously appeared, doing the "Ricking." eases. Exceptions taken by counsel for
They were pupils of the third grade and the John woman involved an alleged
they did their steps with somewhat question of the magistrate's constitu-.
greater precision but in no more pleasing tictnal right to hear the case and impose
manner than the others.. Fourth grade sentence, it being the contention ot the
pupils made their bow in an aesthetic defense that the woman's case did not
dance that was called "Mary, Mary, come within the jurisdicion of the court.
Quite Contrary,' and it was one of the The decision of the supreme court, hand-
daintiest of the lot. Dressed in gorgeous ed down yesterday, not only affirms the
attire, fifth grade pupils executed the stand taken by the local magistrate, but
minuet with gracefulness that was sur- settles once and for all, it is said, a
prising for such youngsters. Finally (contentious bit of argumentation that
came a rollicking Dutch swirl in "WTicre Btarted when the jurisdiction of Vermont
Has My Little Dog Gone" which was a municipal courts was enlarged in August,
fitting climax to the series of dances. 1 1013.
The audience, through the whole series, I Exceptions taken in the case against
laughed with real pleasure at the nimble- Mrs. Bergonzi involved technical phases
footed, eager children. and were waived by the higher court.
The folk dances embraced the second Mrs. Hergonzi s arrest' and conviction
part of the program. The firBt and third grew out of a jitney accident on Granite
parts were songs by the pupils of various street in November, when it was alleged
ages. The Spaulding high school glee tbat beer said to be responsible for the
club, of both maleand female voices, accident was procured of the respondent.
sang Roeckel s "The Storm Field," Of- MM'rgonzi, at uer nome on aiercnani
fenbaeb's "There Is a Perfume." Strauss' street. When Deputy Sheriff Henry C,
"Blue Danube," Sullivan's "When the I-awson came to Barre triday afternoon
Foreman Bares His Steel," Knight's to take the woman in custody, she was
"Rocked in the Cradle of the Deei." and not to be found at home, but the deputy
Bach-Gounod's "Ave Maria." In the last encountered her later on the street.
number they were accompanied by Miss
Ma Carusi on the violin in addition to NEW THEATRICAL FIRM
the piano accompaniment by Miss j
Blanche Russell, who also played for tlie u.l.. , nenninir T.ease Pavilion Theatr-
other parts of the program. On Pearl Street
The girls' glee club at Spaulding sang . U" - "
Osborne's "A Cake-shop Romance," and A new theatrical firm in Barre, Hoban
the seventh and eighth grade pupils did & Denning, has leased the Pavilion the
excellently with Veazie's "The Bees' and atre on Pearl street of R. E. Henderson
Verdi's ever-popular "Anvil Chorus." In- of Wells River, and will re-open that
terspersing the program were selections popular little show house to the public
by the high school orchestra which won Monday evening. ' The Pavilion was
merited praise for its performance. The closed "several weeks ago, only to be
whole program moved along with com- re-opened yesterday for a two-days'
mendable -snap and there were no weari- vaudeville stand under the direction of
some waits such as sometimes mar pres- Mr. Henderson. The house will be for-
entations in which there are so many mally turned over to the- new leasees
participants. A large measure of credit Monday morning. Both members of the
for the prompt succession of the parts is firm are thoroughly conversant with all
due to the grade teachers, who, in addi- details of the show business. -John E.
tion to assisting in the training of the Hoban was nearly 12 years manager ot
children, also acted as monitors for the the Barre opera house and his partner,
children during the evening. J. Henry Denning, has had considerable
The direction of the entertainment was experience with road shows,
in charge of Mjss Josephine E. Hovey, In a statement made this morning
supervisor of music, and she also trained Messrs. Hoban and Denning said: "Next
the participants in all the departments, Monday night tlie Pavilion theatre will
being ably assisted by Miss Blanche Rus- be re-opened under our management. The
.. 1 1 ... i. i .. .. . r 1 1 , . . . . 1 , , , . , ,
m-n, im iifoi jnu iR-cniiiH nwiMnni lo very best feature pictures will be shown;
the supervisor. th,.re wjn vaudeville for the public.
The concert will lie repeated at the whenever we are satisfied that the acts
opera house this evening, and another arc 'right.' and some very attractive mil-
large house is assured. The proceeds arc siCal tabloids have been booked. Every
to he devoted to the work of the music inch of iToor space and. wall, the seats
department of the schools.
BARRE TOWN SOCIALISTS.
MERCHANTS INCORPORATED.
Burlington and Morse's Line Businesses
Filed Articles To-day.
Two mercantile firms filed articles of
asociation at the secretary of state's
office in Montpelier to-day. Howard
Co.. of Burlington is incorporated to do
a general merchandise business, the capi
tal stock being $.1,000, divided into W
shares. The incorporators are Arthur
Howard of Salem. Mass., Carroll S. Loom
is ami (Goodman (.afinowitz. both of Bur
lington. J. M. Hill Cc. Inc., of Mow's Line,
Franklin, is incorporated to do a general
merchandise bitsine and to d- si in real
estate. The capital stoik is 10.ikwi, di
vided into 2.V1 shares, the incorporators
being J. M. Hill. A. P. Waite and W. L.
Hill, all of Morse' Line, and S. B. Waite
i..f Hv.le Park.
Bell I Houston. Barre's newest jewel
ry firm, now established in the store for-ine-lv
occupied by Walker A Roweil in
the ilemVron hh- k at ll North Mam
street, had i' opening to-dsy. A large
number of 'le called at the store dor-
ng I lie dsv to roegratulate the vou-g
Nominated Ticket at Caucus Held Last
Evening.
The Socialist voters of Barre Town
hehl a largely attended caucus in Lasas
so's hall in Wrhstervillc. lat evening,
when the following names were placed in
nomination, to !e voted on at the an
nual March meeting: Moderator. Alex
Bowerman; town clerk and treanirer, J.
A. dimming; selectman. Alex Cameron;
first constable. Dan McAuley; lister,
Hugh McDonald; auditors. John Wilson,
John Mi-Williams. Hurley Edwards; town
grand jurors, Andrew Mann, Henry
Webb. Antonn Winner; road commission
er, .Tames Iwson; school commission
er, Mr. J. A. ummings; oierscer of
poor. Ince Watson. j
It was voted to have the following ar
ticle inserted in the town meeting warn
ing: To see if the omn will vote to pay
full tuition for high school pup 1.
To see if the town wi!l vote to instruct
! its K-heo-l committee to maintain nigl.t
i-ltooU the coming yer.
To see if the ton will vote to pay
it echoed teacher and all ge laborers
weeklv.
r.nd the lobbies have been . thoroughly
washed and scrubbed, so that patrons
may be assured of a perfectly sanitary
en ironment."
Matinee shows are to begin a 2:15
oVlmk and evening performances will he,
gien at 7 and 8:30 o'clmk. Next week
there will be vaudeville and feature film
programs.
AENAKI BOYS COMING.
t.eotge Sullivan of South Larre kft
to ils v f'r SrhetertadT, X. V, bcre he
men on tf'ir rnterpnse and to look ot.-c has senire-1 employment with the On-
titj quartsn. ' tiectric cvirpany.
Summer Camp Attendants Will Meet in
Barre Next Month.
Working plan for the entertainment
of nearly 6u boy are being considered
by the boy scouts of troop two and the
masters of other neoiit troop in the city
when the lads of tamp Amiaki com to
Barre in March for their annual winter
reunion, thily tentstne arrangement
have bren made thus far. but a represen
tative committee of scouts and scout
masters is arranging to rccenc me mem- ,
ber of tamo Abnski in Barre on the
evening of Friday. Marrh I". It is e
e. ted that a banquet to lie held in-the
etrv of the Congregational church will
1m- followed bv si-ee. hmaking. A mini
her of men prominent in the boy ecout
and summer camp moemcnt in Vermont
ill prolbly be present.
Here in Barre there are 10 boy wV.i
w e enrolled at the North llrro camp,
lamp Abpaki. last summer and Parr"
ht't who hate te-n rgi'tere.l at Camp
bnaki at one tmie or another since tVe
rwirp etb!fhej riAnWr nuaibar
IS. .
