L:y. 2L'. rt 'ft. sS 1. , t * 3 .;4 "%r " ..AS .g7',..rr r;..sai+'"f' yy a 'f Z,+:, . .
:. . .. .. " ., _ ei'l ,d*r.'s . s" F .aF " $T.f i ii ,": m 4y , F .,?r ii -.a 'tt ri.. ., .. ..... .. '
+
r i
w. ., ,, k.S b" f a"8 ' - dry , .;! ,u.: w.Ai' .
r
m1
31.,IA n.b
1),'
wo-, 77
MAE
ilMRMECi
Pours Pity and Riccule Upon
wilson Adninistration at
Hsniton Club.
GIVES VIEWS OF PARTY
Temporary Chainmnan G. 0.P.
Convention Looms Up as
Possi-le Nominee.
at President Wiliem werme
"Wf e benv ., tosltd..d- _. not
bystesteel but deL_ eie met p.
mtiesl in dowet. but pauta.tis be
it. meimpa."
f d06t ablest to a Psedm-et
ebaging hi mtaind. but I des't
think it oaght to be ma. a
speeimty?"
"I want to stand by the Pred
dent. but f want Mm to 8600d O
my 5eetry)'
"Waeteful wadag euemht on
on eastemt t in UuMe esemed"
reepeet for ta i ursoe. and
lowersd the standard of eeaddese
at heme.'"
(By latweratkal Nes Seres.)
Chicago, April 8--Senator Warren O.
Harding. of Ohio, who as temporary
chairman of the Republican national
convention. will sound the keynote of the
1916 campulgn, tonight placed himself In
the limelight as a possible Presidential
nominee. Speaking at the Appomattox
Day bnquet of the Hamilton Club, in
the Hotel LaSalle. he boldly expressed
views which were accepted as those of
powerful influences in the party.
There was no sentimental bid for pro
gressive support The Senator's notion
of the 191' skeleton was that everybody
should "forget it." More than that, there
was a wincing among the Roosevelt men
present when the recently-created com
vention spokesman said:
"There must be some safe attitude be
tween being 'too proud to fight' and
magnifying the chip on the shoulder
which calls for a scrap."
Reealied as Pemtbltty.
The hundreds of kawettifts, asneng
whom were members of !te nattena
committee, who helped select Senator
Harding for temporary chairman, were
not slow to recall that the Senator him
self had been proclaimed as eminently
safe for the job as middle-of-the-roader
between old-fashioned conservatism and
the Oyster Bay brand of reasoning.
Of course, Senator Harding hammered
the Wilson administration with a right
good will, pouring upon it both pity and
ridicule. And he made no enemies gmong
the captains of industry present when
he said, a good word for capitaL
'"There is one trouble with the Demo
cratic party." he said. "It has been talk
ing for 100 years about the interests of
the American consumer and has never
had a thought for the American pro
ducer. It is not the consumer who made
the higher American standard; it Is the
producer with coin in his pocket and at
tending ability to buy."
Talks on Tarif'.
Again, while on the subject of the
tariff, the Senator remarked:
"it Is all wrong to proclaim success
dishonest No law can ever provide a
substitute for thrift and industry.
Nothing is more unfair than the insinua
tion that the man who is concerned about
the confidence of the businem world is
an opponent of human progress."
The protective policy, insisted the Sena
tor, would be the great issue of the
coming campaign, although there woqld
be "more spectacular issues" such as
preparedness, but he held that protection
should be made to pay for preparedness.
What prosperity obtained now, he said,
was due to the war in Europe. The
pathetic spectadel of the present attempt
at preparedness at Washington, he said,
Is due to-threatened bankruptcy of the
treasury amid the demand of ordinary
expense and utter inadequacy.
President Wilson Came in for a hard
rap for killing the proposition to take toil
of foreign ships using the Panama
Cnal.
MBS, C. W. POET WEDB.
A Hed Maorate's Widow Deemses
Mr. I. . Weame syr.
C. W. Post, widow of the organiser
of Battle Creek's cereal food industry,
and L. Ji. Montgomery, manager of the
PotTavern, were married today at
tebride's apertomts in the Tavern.
C.W. Poet died two years ago In
CIfornia, fromt the effects of a self-1
incted gunshot wound, leaving an
etimated fortune of $36A.M0.
Eroms, Apil C3.A- het between
mereslae ahee. the lasom freet re
setdin a ulite as th'e mm two
ethe Aastra behg downed.
& dowwnsd
afma ae t 1nMIsWs breest lit
Srywo e ad enemis ddtn
mesuming Ut her bese see. 32 Nedth
*. est -ewsa a
. , ,
" NO PUSSY-FOOTING!"
TROOPS WRIL LEAVE
UNTIL VILLA'S CAUGHT
Executive Office Reiterates Stand Despite
Disclosure that Original Orders Called
Merely for Dispersion.
PUBLICATION UNAUTHORIZED
Funston Said to Have Been Directed at First to Withdraw
After Carranza Secured Control.
1611owing a day of exitement in Washington, the White ose
again last night let it be understood that the American forees will
remain in Mexico until the "get Villa."
The information was inspired by the publication by Maj. Gen.
high L. Scott, chief of staff of the army, of the text of the original
orders issued to Maj. Gen. Funston when the sending of the expedition
into Mexico was decided upon.
Inasmuch as the White House from the first has stated that the
single purpose of the expedition was to capture Villa, disclosure of the
fact that the orders to Funston directed him to withdraw his forces as
oon as the bandits were dispersed or the Carranzistas got control' of
the situation, created a mild sensation.
lInfersmeee Is Drawn.
VILLA CHASE T- was wn many
Quarters that, having deeided that the iruh
TSTL **= was hopelessaswlas agt
withgrae eseq ees tol the r sta
ONLY STARTED grv
betwes the United Stats and the de
Army . Say It fact government of Mexico. the au
A yorities here had decided to prepare the
Take Weeks or Months "' '* a *andonm t of the q"e'
/' p--1by publishing the origimal orders.
to Get Bandit. Far from having decided to get out.
however, Secretary Baker announced
yesterday afternoon that no new orders
NEW COMMUNICATION LINE had been given and, declaring that the
FOR TROOPS NOW I, Y troops under r'hing ere ' *" *
trail." hinted that he was mom-naei,
expecting news of Villa's capture
Quarry Getting Further and Further -The object of the expedition -,a
Sm stated.' he said. "when the expeditii
o aar-mic was undertaken. It has never hc n'
changed, and the expedition I bunt'
pursuing it with what I hope is a fair
By H. H. UTANSURY. c o sucess.
El Paso, Tex.. April k.-'The task Ot Issa ]te Aaeeae.
dipersing the V sta bansis in North
axal__ le m _ " we5> . int i, a ter 'a to rudnn
or po.sbiy ma- m.y be reisirti to without consultation with him supwlr.
esmpete the work." Hitherto the text of these orders has
This was the substance of statements
obtained from three high military com- that If at any time Gen. luneio d.eeJ
manders on the border today. It was a t withdraw the forces without capturng
reply to the report fromh Washington the bandit, be would be acting within
that United States troops would be with the letter of the directions given him.
drawn when Francisco Villa's forces They read as follows:
had been completely seattered. You will promptly organize an
The flat refusal of First Chief C adequate force of troop, under oo
ransa of the de facto government totmend of Brig. Gen. John J. Pershing.
permit the use of the ralireds for troop and will direct him to proceed
anoversents and the trentation of
meveantsandthe raratio ofpromptly acroes the border in purauit
supplies has resulted In sarve Ptt P5Th of the Mexican band which attacked
tions for a new line of municatlon.
The proposed new route will shorten the town of Columbus N. .n
the distance from the border to Chlhua- t
hua City by more than Ie miles. It wiil the th instant These troops will be
extend from Presidio, Tex.. opposite the withdrawn to American territory a.
Mexican town of Otinaga In a south- soon as the de facto government of
Mexico Is able to relieve them of thin
westerly dlreettoa.
VMn is getting farther and farther work In any event the work of
south from Parral every day. Official ther aoons will band as fn
reports up to i o'clock this evening were
thres days old. These placed the ban
dit chieftain in the immediate vicinity -n carrying out these Instructions,
of Parral. you are authorised to employ what
A part of the forces under Canuto ever guides or interpreters as are
Reyes, who has been operating in the.necessary, and you are given general
La Guana district recently, are allegeda
to have set fire to the large mills and ith ncessary citilianprn n
warehouses belonging to the Durango i
Lumber Company on the night of April be required.
Collector Zach Cobb has received a r- "You are instructed to make a prec
port from his agents that the body of ticable use of the aeroplanes at San
an unidentified American was found in'Antonlo for observation. Telegraph
the brush south of Ojinaga. for whatever re-enforcements or ma
terial you need. Notify this office as
Trck o W o a to force selected, and expedite move
Trick of Woman
ment SCOTT. Chief of Staff"
The orders were given out by Gen.
Traps Sm ugglers Scott in response to inquiries as to
whether any time Iltnt had been
p placed on the pursuit of Villa. Offi
Orders Brde Draw Opened dais of the administration were ex
Eretremly Indignant when a contrast
Ere peeing uto was drawn between the language of
Can Get Past. these orders and the statemnts from
same day on which the orders were
Albany, N. Y., Ap it i.-Four China- sent to Funston. the White House, by
men were found huddled in a high-pow- direction of the President, lssued the
ered automobile stopiled on Greenbush
Bridge, crossing the Witson River be- folo ig tament
tween Albany and henesalaer, by i eme
gration authorities tnis ..fternoon. The "An adequate tore -in be eat at
capture of the machine was the outcome oc npruto ~l ihtea.
of a. woman's posence of mind. ,. The ojc fcpuigm uU
wife of the bririge sender, an eye-witness sO ohsfr4
of the race beting made by the autmfne- hnua s mk
bile, signalled the towerman to threw
out the span. The car containing the ~r.AslSTe~ va
Ch'name was brought to a atop within ar a ~ nAsun ie
a foot of the brink of tihe river. printe diacm.itobee
The capture of the party followed a~
thrilling chase In which Inspector Will-teewshav sae e
tam Wiley, of the Unite-1 Statas samrt av Ts;3y gg e
servie and Polke Ofteer Engel were ~ P. pSL#~s
the pursuers. ~ eiii amdadtnem
The authorities snnounced tonight 3ti: abepalhraste eta m
the Chinamen had a greed to pity 35 ip0 f mm emw tm
each for transporration to New York oe&Ia npinatW w
City,. if not moletej. ~
They were smuggleml Into this Ptate
,cros the Niagara Ittver a n'eai or ten adsN klwm
days ago. an4( have lben since tbs odn p -Eesb
seekhng som sneans ot cmenasee to bree rs ~ oS p
purwuing it with wat I hopertstadfai
Nanir Sader eat t LmVs~e schacebof elsess."~ea
Upecs~l r~i dauher fla Iwy A ill Paltmer be I AEvestaed,
I Le WasW~gts *t~j~g~as- es mk. the artrn te o
Hitherto~ 5~~t Othe tetothsorr h
bee.kpt see.~ Thyso. oee
OLD DOMINON
STRIKE ENDED
Carmen Return to Work To
day Pending Settlement
of Differences.
REPRESENTATIVE CARLIN
SERVES AS CONCILIATOR
The strike of the employes of the Was
ington and Old Dominion Railway Com
pany ended last night.
Resumption of service ipending settle
ment of the grievances of the employes
by arbitration was effected by Repre
sentative Carlin, of Virginia.
Representative Carlin was appealed to
yesterday by the strikers in the Inter
eat of the more than 10,000 persona af
fected. He quickly prevailed upon the
offcers of the company to meet a com
mittee of the employes.
At 7:0 o'clock last night President
Livingstone and General Manager Em
mert, for the company, signed an agree
ment recognising the employes' union
and consenting to meet the committee to
consider the demands presented Wednes
day. The agreement holds good for ten
days.
Union employee of the Washington and
Virginia Railway still are on strike. Fol
lowing the:oncession of the officers of the
Washington and Old Dombion they ex
pressed renewed determinaton to light
for a similar conceesians
strtke Ende Abra-uy.
rhe two-day itrike which paralysed
the entire system of the Washington and
Old Doennlon Railway, ended almost as
Abruptly as it began. With the refusal of
General Manager Emmert to meet a com
mittee of employes on Thursday fol
lowing a presePtment of the demanda, a
strike was ordereL
Every employe of the company left
the ears on arrival at the barns or at
the terminal. With the exception of
00WrNDnED ON PAGE TWO.
NAMY Kay Get Fpedm.
Berlin. April $.-Christiana dis
patches state the German. Norwegian,
French. British, and Russian govern
ments have agreed that persons be-'
longing to navies of the belligerents
a" who, according to international
law. could be interned in Norway,
shall be allowed to go -home in case
their Ill-health makes them unit for
serv&ie.
Jap to Ielp Russ Navy.
Petrograd. April &.-A Japanese na
val e ntiesea ar"yVed today to co
operat. wih efien of the Rasa
aimstalty.
tediktb' Ese in Xesico.
!ei, ApUl 3--Lsut. Co. Alfred,
Arsh a saer et Ge. Carrahmas stag
bsdans t as ltervaew anday that "ee
wo 'l in Neazs 0 lo tha awA
-g10!_
V TOURGE
O VER PROBE
Would Have Congress Sift
Brumbaugh Charges Against
"Pennsy" Senator.
PENROSE CAMP STUNNED
BY DECISION TO FIGi
spmCi to The warteo Kse.
Philadelphia. April .nCongremu
William S. Var *Ill demand a Congre
adona investigation of Governor Brm
baugh's charges that Senator George T
Oliver resorted to questioname method.
in an effort to force him from the geid
as a Presidential candidate in Peansyl
vania.
"I am fully acquainted with the detaill
of this barefaced attempt to blaoka
the governor and with those invol
in it." Nid Congressman Vare today
"What I have to say on this matter wilt
be sid on the floor of Congress at the
proper time. Until that time I will ha
nothiag to say."
This announcement, on the heels of the
governors statement exposing the whole
Penrose-Oliver scheme, fell like a bomb
shell in the local Penrose political camp.
Penrose and his supporters had eon.
dently believed that Governor Brumbaugt
would withdraw from the race. His ope.
defiance of their methods, a virtual
declaratlon of plain war and nothing
else, took them by surprise.
Barnes Loses in
Fight on Tanner
Latter Easily Re-elected Chair
man of New York State
G. 0. P. Committee.
psi to The Washeto Besel.
New York. April .-The attempt of
William Barnes to displace Frederick T
Tanner as chairman of the Republicas
State committee. and thereby to dlserdil
Whi before the Republican national ae
vention as a delegate-at-large from this
Sate, who Is avowedly an advocate of
the nomination of Justice Hughes, failed
utterly today.
Mr. Tanner won easily over lmeator
Charles W. Wicks, of 0"lMia oa ,
whem lMe. anes and his riende hlibed
as the ambodlaaet of their ewoip-- tt
astlice Nshee, Gooeruor Wbienas. and
Mr. Tamn.
'4i vote was to , five a'mbers og
the- oSlle being abasaL
Eighn Esse NMe Pa
Ia N ate,.A s-aatch a faie
tresemsi ea a samieX t the ewt
lia g e in theibu
fr ti~~
BOB BURMAN
DIES IN RACE
"Speed King," Mechanician
and Course Guard Killed
and Twenty Hurt.
FLYING AUTO CRASHES
INTO POST AT CORONA
(By 1ntasthm pNew, Serie.)
Corona, Cal., April .-Both Bob
Burman and his mechanician, Erich
Schrader, are dead as a result of an
accident in the running of the Corona
grind prise this afternoon. Burman.
who was removed to Riverside, died
at a hospital there at 6 o'clock to
night. Schrader died a few minutes
after his removal to the Corona Hos
pital from the temporary hqepital at
the track. A bursted tire in the
ninety-fifth lap caused the accident.
W. F. Speer, a guard on the course,
was instantly killed and twenty
spectators more or less injured when
Burman's Pouegot car suddenly
swerved from the course, mounted the
Curb, dashed into a pole, turned over
and pinned both Burman and Schra
der under it.
The persons injured were specta
tors who were struck by the wild
Penegot as it swerved down the
course with the inside wheels on the
curb.
Sixty-five thousand persons wit
nessed the race which was for a prise
of $11,000. The distance was 300
miles.
Eddie O'Donnell, in a Deusenberg
car, won the race in three hours,
twenty-nine minutes and ftfty-two
seconds, averaging 86.5 miles an hour.
Joseph Thomas, in a Mercer, finish
ed second in 3:36:01; Eddie Pullen,
also in a Mercer, finished third in
3:38:36 3-5; Teddy Tetlaf, driving an
Omar was fourth; R. C. Durant, in a
Chevrolet special, fifth. Waterman in
the Gandy special was flagged.
Ru1s Army Near Trebisond.
Petrograd, April 3.--The Russian
army of invasio in Turkey is only
twenty miles from Trebisond. accord
ing to a dispatch from Tiflis today.
The Russians are now advancing upon
Uurmenes,
Tire Wrecks Cink.
-Bufalo, N. Y., April &.-The Roman
Catholic Church of Out' Lady of Vic
thry, at LAckewanas, a BfMa suburb,
wae partially destroed 'ie bysre early
uoest. The lose was I
smoosj, April S -Oj res who
e withstad troops
haArusha d eri Mulca
eavy lessee to an
oM
GERMANS GAIN
BY NEW DRIVE
Get Foothold in "Two Small
Works" Near Haucourt,
Paris Reports.
O" E ATAC 1MYN
BACK BY FRNCH TROOPS
psei Cable to nte W--n- B...
Paris. April g.-Te German assault on
t French lines south and east of Hau
court, which was repulsed with no gaa
to the attacking forces on Thursday
night, was repeated yesterday. In the
new attack the Germans succeeded In
gaining a foothold in posittons desaesbed
In the communique Issued by the French
war office this afternoon as "two =mal
works." between Haucourt and Hill 2?.
Immediately to the south of Haucourt,
and northwest of Hill 304.
On the rest of the front attacked, to the
east of the ruins of the village of Hau
court, the Germans attacked repeatedly.
but were unable to penetrate the French
lines, in spite of heavy sacriices.
Today the German batteries maintained
a bombardment of some violence against
this whole front, between Bethincourt
and Cumieres, but there was no Infantry
action.
Interest was suddenly directed to the
Champagne district today by a bombard
ment of unusual violence directed by the
German guns against the French post
tios in the sector -of the Navarin farm.
directly north of Souain.
So severe was this bombardment that
the French presumed it might be a prep
aratory measure to an infantry attack.
The French seventy-five's threw out
their fre curtain at once. and no German
infantry left its trenches.
Three ]Wed in Fire.
Detroit. Mich., April I.-Three per
sons were killed and one injured early
today in a dre to the home of Homer
Diebler. The dead: Mrs. Lillian
Dtebler, 12; Irma Diebler. 4; Evelyn
Dieber, 2.
Johnstown Again Fear. Plegd.
Johnstown. Pa., April .-With eighteen
Inches of snow on the mountains ,e
last evening and snow still 'ftalng. 'the
outlodf for a period of high water hare
is growing somewhat alarming.
Turk Cruiser Dmaged.
London, April .-The TUrkiah wrarser
Midirli (formerly the Breslau). was struck
by a shell during a battle off the
Bosphorus and put out of action. says a
Rome wgieses dispateh.
Linrm. Crash in 8ae..
New Fitt, April &.-In the heavy snow
fall which eaut a base over New Terk
harbor, tke ametwr vesse! Teadmres.
of the U WenVitio s t e llempsrt
1st lr
