1
T"
' THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Probably snow and rain to-day; to-morrow
cloudy.
Highest temperature yesterday, 40; lowest. 3.1.
totalled weather, mall and marine rrpur's 011 page 1
IT SHINES FOFk ALL '
VOL LXXXIII. NO. 222.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, APRIL 9, 1916. copyright, lMOi tho Sun Printing and Pubtiihlng Aniociation.
M PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
TA1ERWINS
REELECTION;
ROOTS BARNES
Head. State Committee
Over "Wicks by Vote
of 82 to 03.
RAP AT HOOSEVKIr
IN" RESOLUTIONS
IVinand tor Presidential
Nominee to Be u Tried
Itepubliean.
"IIMIKS WAS MEANT"
OIVl' L'I'V I'I'fll) 1f I C
SA 1 S Sh.NAllMl MIIjIjS.
I
Sponsor of Resolution Says
Root Was Not the Man
in If is Mind.
r i ..ttempl of William Haines to ells.
aie Frederick C. Tanner as chairman
f the republican State committee and
hereby to discredit him before the He
f iblK.m tiatlon-il convention as a dele-
-,le at large from this State who Is
mmclly an advocate of the nomination
f Just iii Hughes failed utterly yes
terday
Mr T.iiiIit won easily oier Senator
.larU'S W. Wicks of Oneida county.
shorn Mr. H.irnes anil his friends picked
is the tmbodlnieiit of their -opposition
.lu-tu'P Hushes, liov. Whitman and
il' Tanner. The vote was S2 to (ill, five
meni.'f of the committee being absent.
The. fait that Mr. llarnes allowed the
iipnt to nuch the meeting room of the
i-ommlttee was a surprise to those who
'.eve totnu to respect his cunning in
, m ur munitions. t'P to within an
' 'li of the gathering It was believed
..it he would ill op lb? contest rather
.in take a chance. More than one
.ninillcemnii who had given his word
-upport Senator Wicks hopfd that
determination of Mr. Uurtics and his
' not to pre.-ent a resolution In-
ToT.i ! Bllhu llwt as n PrcsldentUt
ivulldnle was but, the forerunner of the
terminal um to drop -the matter of
Mr. Tunnel's removal.
Hal Mr. Jtarnes llvdsted that he had
c vote ii'eessary to oust Tanner, and
- lC 'i-esentatlves at the llepubllcan
,b e dei.tly agreed wltli hint. Sena-'.-
1. on I:. Ilrowu admitted that he
ne not to make any speecl in
,e.r - he election of Senator icks
', i""-;-'" ','... Is Idle to assume, and from the stand-
f. . u, be.ng that nothing els,, was of ,m,olu, ntei an( honor it
e ei Hut Senator ogden U Mills,,, m,C,rVOUS foy, or has come within
r.. g , surprise In the tnn or a meapurnhie distance of the stage when a
-peech lor Tanner In which he pruml a, jeuloiw of Itie honor and
"'" ' f ictional sp rit beh lid the o,!,, Iy lls Kr,.lt misfc0n in the
.niai .ii of Senator Wicks and defied worl()i nin j,,, 1M)trnt to rely for t.eace
ii.i's oi mini,-, ici kivu n. am- .
, reason w hy he should not
.ii '1 as head of the State or-
H.irnes .Urn uit Defensive.
t'i, .-pfiehinakllig was tinlslied
1 i, s men were defending them
ii d prutestlng that only the hlgli
miI rations for the party's wel
d prompted them to seek a
I,
They made, their play on the
tat In Mich an Important year
i .s'Hi.. e'haiiman should lie etiosen
ri hi ,i -e.-tloii of tlie Stale that rolls .
.'ii g Itepuhlli'iiii majorities. The n-
'r i t.iat came later, when twenty-1
"is np-State couiitlis cast their full !
'. '- the New York city man. I
ii'V Whitman Mood with Mr. Tati
" agiii.-t the onslaught nf the Uarnes
t, Speaker Thaddeuis C. Sweet.
q;xc W Aldridge, Francis W. Hen
l'ks, s. na'nr lleorge F. Argetslnger,
V.'i. ,ni 1.. Waid and others who have
n e ld lighting alongside Mr. llarnes '
lenlnd tlm voung man. argued 11
. fr huurs with tho undecided and I
To ttie meeting completely pre-
in i 'or mil eineigency that might ells-1
iisdf through the no less skilful
.1 ..ila on of Fulled States Senator 1
io w w,lworth, Jr., Se-nator Klon I
Ur iv 1,. Senator Henry M, Sage ami
hiiien lietts.
Ii.-., . k.,...u ,..,,.,...,.,1 ,. 1.. Aiui'illt' e.m. 1
lent he'iirei the ineetlns was called to
1 ie- Tne Tanner forces had been
cjftit unawares by the suddenness with
' t bitile was Joined. For weeks
i s".io chad man had been assured
'hat lic.-e won no objection to his con- j
t.uuhig ins political labors, and when
tne r.e(i of the conspiracy was brought
1 h:in ret last he had literally only hours
to prepare to meet it. The wires from
to there hummed Incessantly from
'at mo'i.eul on. He summoned tu hla
"1 every adroit mind In the party that
''.' discovered had not been pledged
""-nn him, and the task of defending
,ireif w.nil not ended until Juet before
ne meeting.
"A 11 ou going to fight?" lie was
liei as ho huirlcd from one conference
to another.
"Of eoutse I am," was Ills quick reply.
Problem fur Whitman.
Inf Whitman came to town with
(Jtiue Clynn to watch the. proceedings.
There was no doubt III the minds of ob
ricru that Mr. Harries had picked at
lie last liniment a man whom It -would be
" rar.i for tho (Jtivcrr.or to oppose,
fenatfir U'ickH is friendly to the Oov
"'or, to speaker Sweet and othere who
'eprCMMit the grotin within the uarty tluit
I'Hicnr btands unon the orders of
J'r. llarnes, Word soon came from the
"vci 111,1 's hotel that he would bo aatls-
'''J 11 Mr. Wicks were chosen, but that
I-l strength would go to Mr. Tanner.
in t in counting of noses that went 011
,ri iour before tho nicellng the friends
''' Senator Wicks reckoned too conll
"'illy Senator Wadsworth figured that
f." hud at least SI votes for Henntor
"it'i", Another estimate went lis high
-xn early report had It that
"'clei was sure of seven out of the nine
v"t from Uiie county. The figure fell
y to four out of the nine before the
Mtlrif bigan, and that la how It tood
".jt((ni;rd on TAIrd Pagt.
ROOSEVELT WON'T TELL
WHA T HE'D DO IN MEXICO
Can't Answer Hypothetical Questions in Newspapers!
but Quotes From Message to Congress 1
and New Biography.
Otstkh Hat. L. l April 8. Col. .
Ttooscvctt Mlit to-day, In reply to Hie'
questions liut to t! tn in the editorial
columns of Tlfii St's- tliat ho couldn't
answer hyriothellcnl quesllons In edi
torials to went on to sn, however. Unit
a enrtcct Judgment of what he would
huvo done with regard to Mexico and
Ueniwny, If lie had been President now,
can be formed from what lie actually
did when lie win President.
The questions which Tins St'N asked
of Col. Hoosevelt weie:
t. What would lie have done. In
Mexico? What would he do In Mex
Ico If he were President now and
condition!", through no fault or blunder
of his own, were what they are to
day.' -'. Would he regai (1 war In Mexico
lis a Just war"" If so, would he
. vi-uirin. in muni 1-v.Ml
that Jusl war? And -what expedients
would he ueec?
.1. What would he have dun with
regard to Germany.' What would hn
do with tegnrd to Hcrmany's subma
line volley If he were President now
and the Intcrnatlniial situation, through
no previous omission or mistake on
111-- own part, wiih what It Id to-day?
t. Woulfl he regard war with Ger
many an "a Just war"? If io. would
he now Vie using "every expedient" to
avoid even that Just war? And what
cxpetllcntee would he now be usUig?
"The Su.v has asked me certain quen
lions." said the Colonel this afternoon
In the library of his home, where sat
former Secretary of the Navy Oeorge
von L. Meyer and Charles U. WaHhburn
of Worcester. Mass. "It Is Impossible
for me to answer h pothetlcal questions
In editorials. If 1 did It In one case I
should have to do It In hundreds of
cases.
.lands on Old Record.
"Nor Is there any need of thinking
what I Would do In hypothetical case.
A correct Judgment can lie formed by
taking what 1 actually did during the
seven and a half years I was President,
and If any man has forgotten bow I
handled International matters during
that time let him turn to Mr. Hard's
article In the current number of the
Metropolitan Magatine, and If any man
has forgotten what my attitude as Presi
dent was on the subject of preparedness"
here the Colonel got up from the
swivel chair In front of his desk and
walked over to a corner -of his study
and picked out one of a box full of
books "let him turn to Mr. Charles U.
Washburn's recently published biography
of me, pages 96 to 109, and particularly
to the quotation from my message to
Congress given on pages 10 to 108."
The Colonel, back at his desk, was
fingering the book. It bears the title,
'Theodore Hestsevelt, the Logic of His
Career." and on the paper caver of it
appeurs the face of the Colonel, below li
'the catchword. "A new and intimate
biography." "Let me read to you my
message, to C'orwress," said the Colonel ;
lVrnliit
1 Kle hi " fiw stal
build "a navy commensurate with Its,
powene and Its needs, because I feel
(at hUch a ,m w, , wfBil
guar,ltl0 ,,,, llft.BURrti 0f peace. It
... 1le fort,r..irwrlce of other Towers.
It would be equally foolish to rely upon
each of them issesslrfB at all limes and
under all circumstances and provocations
nn altruistic regard for the right of
others."
nelfflnm'a I'llaht Foreshadowed.
"Belgium." declared Mr. Washburn,
Interrupting.
"Kxartly." agreed the rolonel.
"And let me read." said Mr. Wash-
hum. taking u copy of his book rroin the
i,x n, standing up, "what 1 wrote.
- This recommendation of four battleships
w-as not adopted by Congress. I loted
tr, sustain the committee which favored
two. and the views then expres-ed by
iinoievrlt excited only languid Interest
among the people of the country ex
cepting where they aroused sharp con
demnation. Hut, be It observed, the
arguments used by Hoosevelt In U'OS are
the arguments which In 1 SIC ore being
......... 1 flvnrv olntform where na-
tlonal defence Is discussed and by tkore
who have been very recent enlivens 10
the cause, Th policy now advocated
by Hoosevelt Is what I' has always
been.'"
-That'll right" put In Mr. Meyer. "I
remember." .
Then Col. Hoosevelt lead andHier ex-
tract from hlr. message to congress as
ouoted in tlie book, some or tue excrrpis
ltii.le,l to were:
"To provide for but one or two battle
ships 11 year Is to provide that this lid'
Hon lusteud of advancing shall go back
ward In naval rank and relative power
among the great nations. Such a course
would be unwise for us If we fronted
merely on one ocean, and It ue doubly
unwise when we front on two eceans.
I earnestly advise that Congresec now
provide four battleships of the most ad
vanced type. I cannot too emphatically
say that this is a measure of peuce and
not of war. 1 can conceive of no cir
cumstances under which this republic
would enter Into an aggressive war;
most certainly, under no circumstances
would It enter Into an aggressive war
to extend lt territory or In any other
manner seek material agginndlzcment.
Weak Nation' Perils,
"To any public man who knows of
the complaint contlnuully made to the
Klate Department there In an element of
grim tragedy in the claim that the time
has gone by when weak nation or
peoples can be oppressed by those that
are stronger without arousing effective
protests from other strong Interests.
Event's H" tr ,l,e m,",, of ovei""
thinking man show that neither arbltra.
tlon nor any other device can as yet
be Invokeel to prevent the gravest and
most terrible wrongdoing to peoples who
are cither few In number or who, If
numerous, have lost tho first and most
important of national virtues ine ia
puclty for self-defence.
"When a nation Is so happily situated
ati ours that Is. when It has no reason
to fear or to be feared by Its land neigh,
bora the licet U nil the more necessary
for the preservation of peace. Great
Itrltahi has been saved by Its fleet from
the nerCMlty of facing ono of the two
alternatives of submission to conquest
by a foreign I'ower or of Itself becoming
a great military Power. The United
mates can hop far a permanent career
of peaea on only one condition, and that
Is on condition of building and maintain
ing a first class navy.
"Thi t'nlted States ought not to Indulge
a persuasion that, contrary to tho order of ,
human events, they will forever keep at ,
n distance) those painful appeals to arms
Willi which the history of every other;
tliltloo ,il... 'Pli.iA In ,. hI.' .Ida Cm!
the fulled Stall's among rations which
will be withheld. If not absolutely lost,
by Hie icimtatlon of weakness. If we
desire to avoid Insult we must be nlile to
repel It ; If we deslic to secure pence, one
of tho moat powciful Instruments of our
ilslng prospeilty. It iim-t be known Hint
we are at all times ready for war,"
Itooacvelt'x ForrlKM Polio.".
i of
On page ?5 of Mr. Washburn's book 1
l,lin!'1M'.r''llll'"ra,.,ll''r,"! I
iiui tiwosee,isi loieigu punt-j wan
based on a ery slnnile itile, which was,
us he puts It, to behaxc towaul other
nations as a strong and itlf-reepectlng
man should behave toward Tlhe other men
with whom he Is brought In contact. In
other words, our aim Is disinterestedly to
help other nations where such help can
be wisely given without the appearance
of meddling' with what does not concern
iik; to be ireful to act as a good nelgh
Ixir. and at the same time In good tm
lured fashion to make it mldeiit that
we do not Intend to be Imposed upon.
Or. as he put It In number wa, 'Speak
koftly ntul carry u big stick,'
"With these views of our dtltle. II Is
less necessary to say tlint Itoosexelt al
ways favored preparedness for war, n"
the best meaiiH, however, tor securing
iwncc, than to wty that he regarded war
as something to be avoided If possible
and honorable peace to be defiled above,
all things. i
.Mr. Washburn qui.tes Kuoseveii as
hnvltiir M14I1I t
"Fnjust war Is to be abhorred, but sensation,
woe to the nation that does not make The Inference was drawn in many
ready to hold Its own In time of need qua rters that having dcculeil Unit the
against all who would harm it. And j cis;uv was hopeless us well as fraught
w-oe thrice ov.r to the nation In which wlth (.raVl) ,.ol,seijuciii'eH In the reU
the average man loses the nghtlug edge t lwt ,.,. ,. I niti d States and
loses the power to sere as a soldier If ... , . ,
! the day of need should arise." I
in other iilaces the Colonel is quotcu
as follows: I
"A wanton or useless war. or a war of ,
mere aggression, is to be condemned '
as a peculiarly atrocious crime against 1
Immunity. As the world ;h now, only
that natloji Is equipped for peace that
knows how to tight and that will not
shirk from llghtint If ever the eondl-
tlons become such that war is demanded
III the name of the highest morality.
H)ue of the prime dangers of clvlllza'- .
tlon has always been Its tendency to
,f T. ., . . nKn,""f V,"V" i
L',h,f ,"F,,l?K.P.,lKC, Vh',n Re , to I
There Is always danger lest the softness
i i.cre is uiways eianger lese ine soilness
eat like an acid Into their manliness o? '
Hbre
UNION LEAGUE STIR
OVER ROOT'S BOOM
Mflllboi'S Snill to Have
Prolott'll AlillSt Pit-
.
lllll'lll .MOCllliys
Milt of lecent pontic.!! .on-
ferences held In the Fnlon League Club I
wliieh culminated in the lssun of" Kllhu
Hoot, president or the club, for the He-
publican nomination for l'renlent ie-
IMrts were ndont yesterday trt mein-
bers of the club had circulated a petl
tlon protesting against the polhlc.il no
toriety which followed the conferences.
Henry I'. Davison, eiun uf the sign
era of the Hoot boom announcement, was
mentioned as having started the petition.
IjDsI night .Mr. Uavlsnn was ghiiii- ;i
dinner party to friends at Ills coun
try place at c;en Cove. I.. I and re-.
fused to dlscusH the matter oier the i
telephone. A butler who aiisweTCd tlie
telephone carried .1 message to Mr. Davl-1
son. He sent tieK word that he did
not care to discuss the Incident
Hejiry I.. Stlmson. also 11 signer, Imt
who Is not a member of the club, said .
over the telephone, at his country home !
at Cold Spring Harbor. I. I., that he '
ww at the conference when the Hoot I
followers got together, but that he had
not heard of any ellssenslon among the
members of the club because of the ion.
ferences.
The Ide-i that Itnnsevelt member of
the club are behind the protest was not ,
......ie ...... u, .u'lmnn ...si imih nl um
club. Henry . Cjulmby, secretary of'
the club, was there for a short time yes- '
terday af ternoou. So far as could be,
.learned he had not received officially a
petition of protest against the pollticil
meetings. The clerk In the office said
that he nun not near.i of a protest.
1 ne tan mar 1110 newspapers lit
ewspapers hud
learned of the conferences Is said to
have been annoying to certain resident
members and others. If the protest pe.
tltlon has been In circulation It seems
likely that It has been confined to mem
ber who are oppoed lo allowing mem
bers and iion-nienibers to use the name
of the club In launching- campaigns In
u manner which suggests that the club .
as a whole Is behind them, I
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF EIGHT SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS 1
FIRST --Cenerl Newi , W"'
SECOND -Sporting. Kenneli. -20
Poultry, Automobile! bj
Society, Drm, Music,
School 1, G ardent,
I'uliioni , 12
Pictorial Magazine 4
Lithogravurc Supplement,
Art .... 8
Special Feature!, Book,
THIRD
FOURTH
FIFTH
SIXTH
Querici. Chen , , .
SEI-'EiVTW-Foreiin, Financial,
Problema , , , , 6
EIGHTH -Real F-atate, Country
Hornet Competition 4
12
10
Total
66
Rttitn or ntusdiaUri uho io ml it
tlc all oj tktse uclloru will tonjtr a
favor on"Tht Sun" hi ntllfylnt At Pub
lltalion Dtpertmtnl al onet by Ikt phone
(1100 Bttkmtn) and mhtint totUont
ulll U 'promptly fonetrM If poutbit.
r
(J J$ TROOPS TO
c't i v wit cam.
CLOSE TO VILLA
No Intention of Withdrawing-
Korees I'ntil They
"Got" Chieftain.
l S. FORCES MAY RE
IX RATTLE AT SATKVO
W.vsiiim.tun. April S.-After
cxflleincnt In 'Wiisliingtim the
Whlto House iinuiitmccil to-nliiit that
tli .Vmerlcnn fortes will remain In
Mexico until they "get Villa." This
followed reports tlvit lien. IVraliins's
fort-: was iloe to Villa south of
Satrvo.
'Hn' Win..' !loiif uiiniiuiiL't tnent
was inspired by the publication by
MaJor-tSen. Scolt of the tet of the
original orders issued to Hi n. Kinwlon
, , ,, ... :
SMt
into .ieuo was ikiuhu upon. .
Imsmuch n lln White House lias
united that the slnpUi purposo of the
expedition was to capttlr" Villa, d!.s.
closure of the ict that the unlets to
tieii. runston directed him to with-
draw lib; furcm as soon us the bandits
were dispersed or the Cirriilialstns got 1
,,.,..., lU , ,,
' " '. ..i. vh, , ...exico.
! . ,u
prepnii' tho punllc for 1111 alsindonmeiU
of tho que.-t b inibllslilng the original
otilers,
lllii's t apiare l.ookril Far.
Far from having decided to set out,
however,- Secretary Hakcr announced
this ufle liioon that iu new orders had
isen given and declared that the
troops umlnr Feishlng welo on u
..arm .ai!i- hinlln that lu w.i.s
momentarily i x.cctlng news of Villa's
cnpttirc.
Tin. e.t.lecl ,.' Hie 11.!,, I, ,,..
... . " .
Hinted." he naid. "u hen the expedition
iw eeiiuei iitaeii. n lias never necu ,
It with what I hope in a fair chance of j
early success.'
When SVcretaix lhiket left the lie
partment to-night he declared that al
though ho hud received no despatches
tilling of any developments, lepiuts
riielved by him earlier in the day.
whlb: less definite', continued the after-
l'TV"1' r"IM,rlM fr," Antonio
tl't ivrshlng's advance columns wero
c'osing In on n liml of Vllllstus south
of Chlluiahuii. 1
As a matter of fact it developed that
(ell. Scott issued the tl'M of the orders
to Funstnn without consultation with
his superiors. Hitherto the text of
these orders has li-en kept secret. Tho
orders show, however, that If at any
time Jen. r unston decided to withdraw
the forces without cntm-im- n. i,.,.
d;t he w oiild be actllig within the letter
of tlie iliiectton given to lnrn. They
re.nl n.s follows:
We,siii.-i;TO.', March 10, 1J1C.
CoiaiiioiiiKiix; Unxrnl, Southern l)r.
imrtvirut, h'ort Sum Houston,
7'rj-n.':
Vou will prci.i.ptly organize an ade.
,",!,n1 'Turl'J e'C '"V i"n"'.'r .V10 '0"'
7 .. .o . .. . TV.
and will direct him
to
proceed
promptly across the Isiider In pursuit
of the Mexican band which attacked
the town of Columbus, ,, . and
the troops there 011 the morning of
the tub Instant.
These troops will he withdrawn tn
American territory as soon as tlie
de f.ioto Hoi eminent of Mexico Is able
to relieve them of this work. In any
eviuit the work of these troops will be
regarded as finished as soon as Villa's
band or bands are know 11 to be broken
up.
lu carrying out these Instructions
you are authorized to employ what
ever guides or Interpreters ate neces
sary, and you arc given general au
thority to eT.iploy such transportation.
Including motor transportation, with
necessary civilian personnel, as 111 ey
be required,
Vou are Instructed to make all
practicable use of the aeroplanes at
San Antonio for observation. " Tele
graph for whatever reenforcements or
material you nec.d. Notify this olllre
as lo soldiers selected ami expedite
movement. Hcorr,
Chleef of Staff.
MHteincnl of Wilson,
The orders were given out by
Hen.
Scott in response lo Inquiries as to
whether any lime limit had been placed
' on the pursuit of Villa. Officials of the
AdniinlH.mtion were extremely Indignant
when a contrast was drawn between thn
language of these orders and the state
ments from tho White House. On March
10. the same date which the orders were
sent to Hen. Funston, the White House,
by direction of the President, Issued the
following statement :
An adequate foice will be, sent ut
I mill: it. ii,pu.i oi ,01a will. II.,; sin
gle object of capturing hint and put
ting a stop to ins iiiraiK.
On Mureli "."1 lhe President lOmunir
Jin a signed slattuient, said.
inn expeuiiion 11110 .viexico whs or
I gnnlzed under 1111 agicement
' for tho single puiposo of taking Villa.
I For the past few days persistent re.
jiorls nave neen coming ft 0111 the border
1 ami tne interior or .vieiico to tne eneel
I that C'urrunr.a was preparing lo demand
that the I'nllcd states troops be. with,
drawn.
Whllo thn State Department professed
to have no continuation of these reports,
which purported to quote Foielgn Min
ister Agullar ut Quereturo and Consul
Uarchi at ICI I'aso, the fact that they
persist, coupled with the facts known
to obtain concerning the hitch in 1 tin
protocol negotiations and thn slip up on
the railroad question, created a strong
Impression that Cairn 11 za Is getting rest
less, To-night officials of the Administration
confirmed the statement iirlnted In T:tK
Hun this morning that Carrtinza was In.
Conflsiird 011 Second Page,
23,000 SERBIAN
BOYS DRIVEN TO
DEATH IN FLIGHT
Only 7.000 Reach Refuge on
Vido Island. Where Daily
. Hundred Succumb.
'XOTIIlXtJ HUMAN
HUT THEIR EYES"
trermi Coirnpondfnet to 1'nr. St".
ISoMii, .March IT. In a grove of
orange and ollvo trees close to the sea
on tho small Island of Vldo near Corfu
thousands of tei.ts were pitched nbont
two months ngo to shelter .10,000 Serbian
soldiers, tho oungest and most ex
hausted men of the Serbian army after
the retreat across Albania to the Adrl
ullc. The encampment, howeer, proved too
large, as the number of soldiers for
whom accommodation had been provldtd
s Brr'auj- overestimate!!, in xaci oni ,
rlve(I , ,,, T! w(,re h0 llttprlv
was greatly overestimated. In fact only
hausted that "nothing human was left
of them but their eyes." Hundreds of
them died as soon as they wre landed,
many arc dying every day. Only a few
lire still iillve, but their death is onI
n question of weeks, perhaps of i1ms.
and before long the encampment will be
empty in.il not a single soldb-r will be
left on tii, u..ili ui.lh.i nf vtii.v
When Set bin was Invaded bv the Cer-
loans. .viMiians ami iiuigar nns ai.u me
retreat of the erblan army airof.s Al
baula to the Adriatic became necessary
I In every town and village all the young
men wno uau not jomea the colors, uoys
who had not ycl readied Military jge
(under IS years old, some much younger,
bari ly IT. In fact), were ordered In all
haste to serve their country. They fol
lowed the drummer boys purposelj sent
to summon them in every town and vll
lugf and marched to the depots, where
'they leceixrd n cap, nn overcoat and a 1
bn'.ul bag and thus became soldlrs.
.Mole than 30,i00 new soldleis ware
collected and a colunin of "boys" was
formed and placed In charge of a '
mounted gendarme, whose orders were
to lead tli-m In safety to the froutlei
rnt ti J.ihib March In e.
when the frontier between Serbia anti
Albania was reached the gendarme told
line boys to march straight ahead and.
n.e- ...,s ... nia,.,, r era mm il ......
pointing to the est, lie naded that there
ihev nnnlil Mini llio .n unl si, Ins sn,
J "f0tu,hCm"
n-i.i . .. i ..i., ,
Albania In search of the sea and the i
ship- whbh they hoped to find within a
com...- u. unjs .ii me uimosi. i ney
were overtaken and passed by columns
oi fin suuners. aruie'i, enuipiieei ami
ofdce'ed, who gae them all tl.e bread
the. hud and encouraged them to follow.
No one has described how long It took
these hois to reach the sea and how
much they suffered from hunger, ex-
posure and fatigue. They ate roots and
the bark of trees and yet they marched
on toward the At night they hu 1-
dled together lor warmth and slept on
the snow, but many never awoke In the
morning and every day the number de
creased until when the column reached
Avlnna only lS.eOO were left out of tlie
SCi.nriii that cross,.,) the frontier.
It Is useless to attempt a description
of what they suffered, as the story of
, l .,. V .1.1., .1. um.l. i. l.ir nrrt ...tu liir si. .is
ls tu''' "n'1 tinderrtood In few words
Fifteen thousand died on tho way and
those who saw the tea and the ships
"had nothing human left of them bu:
their cyi'S." And what eyes'
I The Italians at .MIon.i had no hos.
pltal iiceomnioditlon for 15,000. They
, could not possibly allow these Serbian
Ixiys covered with vermin and decimated
! uy'''taKio.is diseases to enter the town.
f nicy nan i.iem t... ... .111.1. 11. me open
'country close, to a river and gave them;
all tlie food they could spine, army bis
cuits and bully beef The wateis of
the river had unfortunately been con
taminated as ionises In an advanced
state of decomposition had been thrown
In, but 'be Serbian boy soldiers drank
all the same.
Only IMMKI Hum Left.
Hy thee time thai the ships to eiun e y
them to Corfu arrived the lR.ftOO' hud
neen reeluce-el to P.tfOO, Alniut 2,0n0 more
bos died during tlie twenty-four hours I
Journey between Avlnna and Vldo and
thus only 7,000 reached the encampment'
In the grove of .jiange and olive tieesl
by the se.t 011 the island of Vldo,
The FieiKii and Serbian dixiors at
tached to the encampment slid that If j
1 It weie potstlile to have .1 lied for eaeii
I boy. an unlimited suppU of milk and 1
1 a l.u ge staff of nurses perhaps out of
the 7,000 bojs landed at Vldo about two-
thlnls could be saved. Tliere aie no
I beds, no milk and no nurses at Vldo.
I however, and despite tho hard work of
the doctors and their efforts to Improvise
I a suitable diet duttnir the last month
more than 100 boyie have died every day
As It i Inipofslble to bury them on
the Island a ship, tne si. rraiuis d'Asslsl,
I steams Into the small port of Vldo every
morning and takes the hundred or more
bodies out to sea for burial. The allied
war vessels at Corfu lower their Hags at
half mast, their crews are mustered on 1
deck with caps off and their pickets
nresent arms as the St. Francis d'Asslsl I
Btenins by with her cargo of dead for
burial In that sea toward which the boys
were ordered to march.
And the hiirvlvors lying on tho straw-
waiting for their turn lo die "with noth-
lug human left of them but their eyes"
must wonder as they look al the sea
and the ship with the bodies of their
dead comrades on ooarn wueiner tins is
the sea and the ship that the only leader I
they had, the Serbian gendarme that I
saw them safely to the frontier, alludid
to when he raised his arm and pointed
to the wrM and told them to march In
that direction.
PERISCOPELESS U BOATS.
Hcrinnns Art- Construe! I iik Tlirm,
ens it lleiteli Weekly. 1
l,oNHoN, Apiil S, Tlie Hutch weekly
l)r l.anilntonn says that the Hermans
are cons I met lug submarines of a pew
linn which have up periscope,
The elimination of thin feature, ii Is
dechired, makes It more elKlk'ult, if not
Impossible, for another vessel to learu
of the presence of the submarine until
the torpedo Is tired and also removes one
of lhe mobt vulnerable parts of lhe
underwater cratt,
I'nder Hie new plan the work hitherto
dono by 1 ho periscope la met by an ar
rangement of mlrrora and lenaea built
Into the hull. j
BERLIN DECLARES U BOA T
DIDN'T TORPEDO SUSSEX;
WILSON CUTS HIS OUTING
GERMANY DENIES ATTACKING
CHANNEL STEAMER SUSSEX
BERLIN, via London, April 8. The German Foreign
Office informed -Ambassador Gerard to-day that no German
submarine or other warship was responsible for the attack
on the Channel steamer Sussex, which resulted in tho loss of
more than fifty lives.
From the material at hand it will also be possible to reply
to the American inquiries regarding the steamers English
man, Manchester Engineer, Eagle Point and Berwindvale,
and establish, according to the German contention, that no
blame attaches to Germany.
The statement made to Ambassador Gerard was similar
in form to the denial made by the Foreign Oilice to Holland
in the case of the Dutch steamer Palembang.
FRENCH ADMIT GERMAN
ADVANCE AT HAUCOURT
Lo of "Two Small
J
newal ot Artilery
pagne
Vivo tJ'jie lutf iw, la Tin: iv.
l'.Mtls, April Tne HriUAU assault
on the French hr.es south aut east of
llaucourt, wlibn was repulsed v..th no
gain to tu- nttacnlng loiccs on Thutsday
night, was ipeatd .vtstciuu In the
new attack th Hermans fic eedsd In
gaining a foothold In positions described
In the communique Issued by tl.e French
War oUicc this afternoon as "two small
works" between Ilau.o'jrt. and Hill
Immediately to the south of llaucourt
and northwest of IIUI 20i,
On the rest of the fiont attacked, east
of tho ruins of the village of llaucourt,
the Hermans attacked lepcatedly. but
weie unable to penetrate the French 1
lines in eptte of heavy sacrifics
The uerman batteries kept up to-day
a bombardment of some violence against
tills whole front between ISethlticourt
and Cunilncs', but there was no infantry
action.
Interest was suddenly ellrevted to the
Champagne district to-day by n lsrnlrd -
.n..n, rf linll.ilnl irilA,,..a a M.t.,1
the Herman guns against the French
. .,,.,., .,, ... . v.-vaHn
I ', .,, .... ... , v....... .
""eviij ui in niiumii. n
v.ttre WM ,hl" """"""nent that the
rim.
Fronc.li presumed It might le a prepara-
. Tf(() ,..,,, ;i hrf , ., ,.mUlU, o
; nr(t nt ,,,, fln ,i(,rln.,u infantry
j jejt t trencliej
The .Mltht Commanlqoe.
Ti.n eifficial cnnimuiilque Issued by tl.e 1
Fiench War Office to-ulght follows.
South of the Avre tlm lire of our
artlller.i destroyed the mill of St.
Aurln, where an observation rMit had
been e stablished, and destro.ied enemy
tiera'h.'s not th of lleauvnelgu.es.
In Chiunpagne, in the re gion of the
.Navuiln farm, we replied by means
of u tire curtain to a very violent
bombardment which appeared to pre
sage attacks, The enemy did not leave
his trenches
111 tho Argonnx there was a cos -ceritratlon
of lire on the enemy bat
teries In the Heils de Cheppy and the
re-glon of Montf.iueon and Malancourt
In the region of Verdun thereJs no
important event to report except it
e-oniewiiat lively bombardment of our
tront llethln -ourt-I-e Mort Homme
Cumleres. In the Votges theie was great ae-
ttvlty on .the nart of our artillery la
the valley' of the Fechl.
Homu IU vantage was s.iir,.d by the
.ri.ich last night In n continuation of
th,. grenade lighting on Uie llcthlucourt
e'liattancourt road
Herman grenade throiveis made an at- j
lack 011 11 French position north of Fort
Vau. but we're repulsed by the French I
Hie--. !
The Afternoon Iteport.
The afternoon coiniuunlquii war a
follow s :
In the Argoune district theie has
be-en fighting at Fllle Morle. where we
exploded two small mines with suc
cess At Hill No. "..r we have occu
pied the. southern side of a mine
ciatcr caused by the explosion of a
Ueiinau mine.
West of the' Meuse the Hermans 1
last nlyht reni'wed their attacks I
against our positions south and ens' 1
nf llaucourt At tills latter point, ;
In spun or repealed eiroris, me eu
euiy found It impossible to dislodge' us
f 1 0111 our lines. We poured out upon
him a tnui dermis fire, which caused
htm lieaiy losses.
South of llaucourt the Hermans
suereeiled In winning a footing lu two
small works between llaucourt and
Hill No. ;s7. which we had occupied.
Southeast of llethlncourt there has
been a continuation of tlie lighting
with baud grenades in the cniniituul-
eating trenches on the mud between
llethlncourt and Chattancourt. which
icsulted lu sonic advantages to our.
selves.
Uast of the Meuse there has been
1111 Intermittent bombardment of our
1 positions. An attack made b.v the en.
I einy wiin iinuii grenades against one
of our trenches north of the Vaux
f'rt was repulsed by the French lire
In the Woevre the night passed
quietly
' tlm Vosges a reconnalHsanee on
' ,lu' l"lr, ot ,,,,, r'"m' l'1 "n eiuli'avor
1,1 0.1...1,.. ....v pnu i.um.. ,.
l.angeufcldkopf. to tne south of Son
elernach, wns dispersed by our artil
lery. BEKUS' TELLS OF UALS.
I'.ntlre I'reni'll I'oallion nu Hlelue
. ..... .. ... .
.....I TOO I'rl.oner. T.Ueu.
Usui. l.v. via London, April S. T.ic
Hrriuan War Oltlce aimouuceil to-day
the culture vesteiday of itlic entlio
' Fiench position 011 the rldgn of Termlleir
Mil. ' front of more than two kilo-1
meters (one and one-fourth miles). The
Herman losses worn slight,
Tlie Fiench attempted a counter nt
tacit this morning, but failed e-oinplelely,
the French losses being ve ry heavy.
Over Tun rrencu prisoners weie cap.
tilled,
The ollicial hlateiuenl also announces
the capture' of a Fiench position south
of Sondemaiii 111 tlio Vosges, with Mm
kllliPK or caiilulo of all the 1'ieiie.n 00.
cupants.
On the
left bank of lhe Meuse
Works" and Tel! of Re-
Activity m Cham-
District.
Slle.si.'in ll'ld Jljk.ll.ai. Iluup.-. !,. t,y
firm a strong Frt-ncn point of rup.
poit sou'h ot Jtaucourt. They cap
tuiei ilia ti'lre enemy position on
the ridgo of Tenullen Hill, extindllig
over a width of mo;,- than two, Udo
meters. A counter itta-k nttcmpted
early this niernlng ".ii!u fompltle!.
Our I(ses were sllgnt
Those of the etieniy, ow,iig pirtiv
to tlie trracherous beluv.oi o' some,
were very heavy In cdcit'ion o tjiuse,
llfteeii ntllcerh anl ilD'a n.jn weie p.tp.
tuteii untnjurcii, iiciuibi.g : amorous
I lecrults of the clans of lOlt
i On the hills eii-i of the Meuse a.-.d
in the Woevru sector the rrti!lcry was
very uetlve on both feidetv
On Hllseu Kidge, south of Sender-
nicii. In the Vo-ges, a small (Pnnan
netachnient earne ini m an advance-l
' French position, the occupant of
which were killed w.tli the exception of
tnirt-ntir men, who were ruptured.
Tho eneniN's trenches were blown up.
Tl,.. .v.n.i,.-.. II...,. p I... , i'a
, ,allM hilN i,,,.,.,,,....,, ,,. ,..;.,. , ,hr
.....
road, leading to K.nes. i available to
the Fiench troops, which ate desper
ately ileleudlng Ilethlncourt. Till" mad
In some places Is only l.imO yards ills,
tant from the Oermau poeltloiis. Fsnes
Is only two unci a half miles fioin
Hill
Ilethliicoui . . t.i nil.'. MlSage ;n
tills section of Hie front left In Fnn. h
hands, and Is being defetaied with the
greatest tenacity That the French com
iiiiii.ii ii,. in. i ...ie.. vaiue ii..-sii.iei.i
Is shown by tlie orders found on French
tirtsoners. .is well .is l.v Ilie stat. tne-nts
, of the pri-oneis thcm-elvcs. w hlch show
of ground.
' In their defence the Fiench ate us. !
slsted by the ground, which forces the I
Herman attackers to cross open ridges
lu Hie f.ue of artillery and machine
KUII tile and hampered by bin bed wile!
and other hindrances
I1RIT1SH IWSY "Ml MSG.
l.oiieleen tlhei lt..mrts rtllle.r tc'i
lis lt 011 Moth side s.
.'fCiaf Cllhlr lifP'llcl, 10 Tlir M
London, Apiil S. -Tin- following re- I
port from British headquarters 111 Frame
Wa.s issued to.lligilt b.V tile eiltlcial pietw'
bureau :
l.i.-l nigi.t and te.'d.'i.v tneie w.ih
mltl.ng a. tliiiy about the llulluc'i
quarries, Oiv.'iuii and southeast of
Hoclliicoiill
Tliere was ait II. " n tivit.i tu-d l.v
on both sides about Koclineoiirt.
H.-llaeoillt, Senicher. t.ie 1,'iiettc llilge
and Willi erglieni
About SI III"! the eiieni.i shelled our
trenches heavily tins afternoon v
retaliated.
( 'A SA I) I A .S A I) 'A S'CK.
fleimh Seiniiels Front Ontario Hattnl
Ions s. Vni. Craters.
nn'Aw.i, prii A. account 'if li
ce it op.-iatloll.s on the Western fiont III
winch Canaiheiii troojw were etigagi'd.
as wutteii l an olfii'uil ej ew. tin's... was
issued to.ila b t','e Militia 1 icvarinient
The account says that in the wiek oi
Manh Is-April I the He, mans attempted
10 dislodge the llrlt'sli
fill CIS fllllll
trenches they had occupied ,m Mitch
S7 The Hermans li.id fm tilled untie
ciateis and wen atuinptiiig to setze
anotlier nater and puuu: tlie union of'
the new llrltis'.i line w 'h t-euchis to tho
northeast Canadian lrcon wer used
lo drive tlie Hermans ft 0111 t!tee craters, ,
llomb sqiiads from the llighteenth
Uestein Opteiiio and the Tw cnty-i'ightli 1
t-.asteiu iiutnrio n iittihKi.s. under I.leuts.
speei and Hiownlee, vine -eni ag nn..'.
these Herman pnsi'.ious n llrlg-Hen.
Ili'illUo on Apr I 1. Cooperai.ng wit'i
1 Hiitlsh gieii.nllei s, the fanailun squads'
established themselves in the new poe.1-
I Hons befoie midnight "n,, Canadian
was liliie.l a.'l.l MX well woiiuiieii. 1,1.'
I Hcnum lusti i.j d s. 1 ih.'d as dual , and
one Hciiniin otli ei and l.nir men w el e
taken pitsouers.
Starting fiuiii t s . ne tue lollow.ng
niglit Hrltlsh noops .apluted coniiuand -
lug positioiis ami 1 o,'. undated the new
positions
DANCER WORE HER PEARLS.
viiicrli'ieii's Wile- one's I'llrlsleone
for llelnri. ol N eeU line.
.Ie Ol' I'll',,' O.i'll., to ill. Si
I'.lt.is, plll X -lil'oige Wh', 01,111.
an American living in a chateau in-ai
Vernon, III the I lepartnii'lil of tlie lluii ,
gave a pearl nei'lclace to i iiiuii s de 1 iiiTt.,
,,,, aclr! ss of the Folks llergeie. saying
, that it came to I1I111 troni his mulhei'
,""."".'
Mie. Perkins, lhe neckl.i
is a lied
tit liO.OOu f ram s itl'J.oooi,
Mr. Whitman Is said to be a wn illliv
New York man Mr. Whitman's wife
has laid claim 10 the tuvklace, saline
'It belongs to her, anil has siml the in
- i ircst-, who leftist's to surrender Hie lew-
clry The magistrate placed the Jewels
I iiihIi-i ,seal, intimating to Mr. Whitman
that the nrrair nuilil be arinngid if
another ne'cMaie weie provided
Mr W'hltuiin eli'iaiauds 1 est'nitioii ol'
, the necklace and also I..M10 trip a.
' 1 ;jon 1, ulilch Miss de Hifl'e deal, ires
. rh le'i eiu-d fienn him in icpajmrut fur
sums which she paid In reatauranta wllh
Mr Whitman
Xo Word Vol From (ici at'ii.
but Unofficial IV
niai (liven.
DISCLAIMER SAID
TO RE OX THE WAY
Failure lit dive (iuaranl'v
Wilson Asks Is In
dieated.
j PRESIDENT'S FAITH
SHAKEN RY ADVU'F.S
Col. House Said In Have
I ConviiHK'd Him Thai a
Xolcs Are Futile.
,.VsM'r:.C70.s. Apiil f . rterrn. i-hces
Jio disposition to yield to fresh.'cM Wr-ro.-.'J
most rco'i.i it'tuefeetiit.o.is 'ii
the eui'jstlon r,f r '.ibiaa rit.a "lar'.-M
'i'hlf. in n iiulslic'', . the n!'i.. io. '
nutboiltntl' e'iy .lea. ribrd tn-idghl The
Preside!:' cut slujit his wick im li'p
aliOTrd .lie .MaysInn.M a. d rrtunied In. v
I thlH r.fte-ncon
Secietary l.r.s', g r:,;il fiat no wo. I
Intel cone from Aiu.ihr sadni ilera d a'
I Herl'n, although i' 1 nnderstonl that
a ineieage fi,'m ti Airbassador H on
' Its waj
Meanwhile in utliciai milt, e. I'om
1 It-, tin elt iine that tlie Henna!! Hov
i eminent i In a position to sev detlmtelv
that no Herman nibniarli.e attacked tue
Suss. .. The same disclaimer of ir
sponsibillty Is understood to be In Am.
bans.ulor Herard's drspnle'l.
I'liottlclal iidvlees Ikewise ivpoit lii,t
He, in uiy will altempl l,i Justify tlie at
tack on the Kniilishinaii s well :i, oilier
attacks, on the groin. d that these shins
were freighters engaged In winking for
the enemy, and consequent'ly lo'.itlin.itu
prey tm lieimnr boat.
'Senium, it is. ui.(i,,rtoiid. il.,r
construe li-r pl-oge to the File( s-m-..
i. iitv.,1. (ii.it irifgnieis w II ii. im.
limn,.. ;,-vm sublllfi i'.lie attail. The !. -
man Foiclcu Hl,i' lavs n.ss .. i
,liL,i.,..i.... ...... '
hIvv-Iv )iw.erign,. ', !,K,i
elienie
Merlin' Intention I ii.tle'ieleil.
Informal!
ion l-e, iii', ,1 ,r , . ...
,. , . .. ,,,.-
001.1 Ul.ll.gl,! IS ! .,-, ,0 .,r,.
a definite' sl.tteniVllt I'.UIiel'lHIl" 1:,. .
rnany's otllclal reply, bin tl.(. ,
leaf
iin.n'.nioiiM mat the it. rim
lov emu. n
i iletei'inlneil to -uppH
good win , pi,, j.
epn . toiiv o'
n ' g.ia
...iieis vuj'cli lilt l-iesi , ,1, . r,
Helilll Is l.hewl.o un.li.rs" J ,
diie.-l is... with all to.- is.ti.i. 1 , po
tions of fi.ct Involved afd ' loot. .,
the specitlc cites m 111 . jth, v ,1 (f, t ,.
light from that m which tq. 'sq.,t,
partment has pnseiiteii tn. ,..
A'Siiram e.s ure understood (,, tor.11 ,1
major portion of Herfn's def.-n. I.q.
th- aie the same. ,uuu auc. s otlici',
a. vciiiii have bii'ti givn t 1 mil. allv
wheiU'ii- Hennany tlmugh' it m
lo li'llrve the tin-llle'l win. h hie sqS.
marine cnnpaicn h.tr. -r .n.d I., ie
iili.le ,s leliew.il ,..,,11111, m now ,
tli lal eir les of 1 lenn iiij ei, s-,., v, ,
ingii. '.s'H pep th. .iit.i. .nl, n, rn,
disiiissioi, nn, I eii.kaviir (., ,,,, , ,, ,
agreement with Hie 1'nited Stan IW
dlioniats view this as ,1 s,.p 1.. m. sup.
posed peace loving prop-llsltle.. 01 t i.
Admliilstiatlon. I 'urtlni men ,t r,
garded b.v otllclals as anotlier . va.-.,o,,
of the- Isslle
ill Mew of tills .lllelesl lieii i. t,,..,
ceiitied on what I'lesident Wilson wi.l
do Then Is eveiv Indl.Mtion tii.il hi
cannot get troin HeTinany t:ie pl.-.l-'.-s
V lll.'il lie llemailds for tile , !i,i, ,,f
American rights tin Ii gi ,. n,
all aci.pi the He.inaii ceuu, loimsi I
is- explained, mil .in h,s l.i ,li on fu .
O.IH......IUI' 'ie.guil.lll.ius. or lie ,11
.11 uniimnj il..llowt! ol do s..., x
dls.lslei go uiicliallilii',1
.
" """" ,,MI' M'al.en.
1'iesnleiit iImihV i.hiIi futu . n
goiiatlims with iieruiai: ,0.1 1 . si,
marine Issue has-, howesei bieu a:,,
mined, it s said, not onl .cnu.,'. r( t,i.,
el ents which have followe, It, 1, . ,
iloiltcal promise, hut , ,
, talks he his had with . , 1' , .
visevs.
C,,l House afli" Ins i.iuin f ..
'I 'i.i
I I) !
I' l .
.S I .
!l'i ' I
rope lh said to I, aie ion in. ed t,,e
dun that Hennany felt Jusinbd
I diploiniiti - prociasilnation .1- ., n
1.01,111; 11 llslllllgloli mm I,ellei, t ,
the near future would see the sub 1 u...,
1 issue satisfactorily adjusted
In his talki: with Herman ol', .1'- r ,
. House heiild tlie same pioin... - I.,.,
1 thev weie always agti, , it t sn., ,10
witnoiit niiMliln : delluu
hiat.'inent that if Vu.-i' 111 I -. we,,
last tluvnlL.h tlie ini.'tlelee i .,,' ..
cniinaiiilei s 1 iennatic via. ill w ui,y
make iiuia ud'
Tins., it Is mill, 'I. 0,1 ii.o . . ,; ,, .
'ached to the Hal man ,i!a,iiu 1
lltt.O I, p.l.s.a tiger ships W.tl'.l. vi
1 o 1 man ,fl i.,s n i,v m,.. 1 ,
thai Heiiliaus uhhol'l 1 d t'n in, ,
Ho '
tin King passe ugi'i s'atp.- ,11 ill 1,1 , ., ,
' where vlic'i all, n'ks ai. . if i.'d 11 t ' . v
I mi III' it w ,. be a ansa' ait Hit eiiai'i-
legaiil of the safi'tv of ni'uu.r In,.., ,
. permitting tln in lo 11.1v 1 1 on ship , .11 , .
! i.ia- ...O..III.,.,. 1.,,.. 1. ... .....
(n WH). M,M)l,0 mnji,, ,, llh. ,, , r, ,
.shltis in the enemy's w.n set. 1, 11 f.
man siihinui 1111 cni.111.11 1I1 : -
I'nl, Hem."
It IS lllllli'l e. ..... 1
Mlllitilc
Ml I o'
i nil. ' .
ntll. 1 .1
um been a d !
viewpoint ot ei-n 1,11,
l.eli.i.d lie lies .fa .1 1
London sin 1 !'i ."u. ,i'
iv.o .iltiaisbn 1 in :f 1 '
i'n,i Vn ,1111 i..is l.,
laius 1 nruirai in tils ofli, I
, the war t'i',iin iban Ainlia. 1
lit no one, It is snbl, has been in .,
convinced id the futlll') if ilmnni
'5
.it
1
4
1
4
4
iAi
