(
mmin
WEATHER
MARKE IS
Ntw YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
April 5, 26.31
Arizona
FAIR Warmer.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 18, NO. 271.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, APRILS- - ai- - i
l VNOZIUV 'XINSOHd I
PRICE FIVE CENTS
P
OF VILLA
BEE
o in
n no
PROGRESSIVE
DELEGATION
IIED FOR
Captain John C Greenway,
of Warren, Heads Delega
tion of Six Representing
Arizona in Chicago in June.
DELEGATION TO CHICA
GO UNINSTRUCTED
Several Efforts Made to En
dorse Roosevelt for Presi
dent All Are Defeated,
However.
In a convention which, by the call,
was limited to a discussion of national
Issues and to the election of delegates
to the Progressive convention in Chi
cEgo, in June, ths Progressives of Ari
zona yesterday afternoon, met and
concluded thtir business within sev
eral hours.
Harmony characterized the meeting
of the followers of the big- "Bull
Moose." It was harmony, blended with
a feeling some kind of a compromise
would be effected at Chicago in June
which would re-unite the warring fac
tions of Republicanism, and which un
der the most favorable circumstances
would mean the. nomination and elec
tion of Theodore Roosevelt as Presi
dent of the United States.
Fifty delegates seated from the var
ious counties in the state. Cochise
county was represented in full, each
of the thirty members of the delega
gation being credited with one half
vote. Pima county sent six delegates,
Maricona nine. Yuma one and Graham
one. The credentials committee had
little difficulty in reaching an agree
ment and the work of the convention
was commenced at once after the call
was read.
In the absence of J. L. B. Alexan
der, chairman of the state central
committee, David Benshimol. chair
man of the county central committee,
was elected chairman. , Paul Per
nald. chairm.m of the Pima county
central committee was elected secre
tary. The first actual work of the con
vention was the election of delegates
to the national convention. It was
first proposed that this be done by
ballot. This idea was given over,
however in favor of nomination from
the floor and election by acclamation.
Heading the delegation from Ari
zona, and frst in nomination and elec
tion, was Captain John C. Greenway,
of Warren.
Next, and in order of nomination
and election, completing the list of
regular delegates were: Dwight B.
Heard. Phoenix. Captain J. L. B. Al
exander, Phoenix. J. G. Compton, Tuc
son, Thomas Marshall, Tucson, F. P.
Moore, Cochise.
Alternates were then selected. Ow
ing to the action of Harry B. Wilkin
son of Phoenix in withdrawing in fa
vor of Captain Alexander it was de
cided that the Phoenix attorney should
be the first alternate to act in case
either of the Maricona county dele
gates did not go to Chicago.
The alternates selected are: Judge
Baughn. Pinal, Captain Tuttle, Gra
ham, T. M. Cureton. Coconino, J. Braz
elton Santa Cruz, E. S. Clark Yavapai,
and H. B. Wilkinson, Maricopa
Indicative of the feeling of the rank
and file of progressives and of their
conciliatory attitude toward the Re
publican party was the action taken
upon a proposed motion, which would
have committed the Arizona delega
tion to support of Theodore Roose
velt, first, last and all the time at the
national convention.
The leaders as well as the members
of the convention opposed the motion.
It was stated that they opposed it
because it was not politic, at this
time, to instruct the delegation to
support any one man to the exclus
ion of every one else.
Along this line Captain Greenway
stated that. "The Progressives of the
nation and I tiiink of Arizona have
taken the position that they will talk
provided the Republicans meet them
half way.
"We should be diplomatic and meet
them in all fairness. We should make
it easy for them to meet us instead of
hard to make advances. What we
want is a progressive nominee on the
republican ticket for President."
Captain Greenway stated, in expla
nation of his remarks that he was n
warm admirer of Colonel Roosevelt
but he considered it would not be
good politirs. at this time, to take
such action.
Dwight B. Heard of Phoenix, and
the national committeeman from Ari
(Contlnued on rage Five.)
GO
SEARCH FORCREW
EUREKA. Calif.. April 8.
Searchers for possible survi
vors of the wreck of the gaso
line schooner Magnoda, which ,
was found floating bottom up
ofT the mouth of the Klamath
river early today report tonight
they had not found a trace of
Edward Johnson or his crew of
four men. All are believed to
have perished and the vessel is
being towed back into this port
which she left yesterday.
GALA FESTIVAL
COMPLETES THE
FINAL SESSION
OF ELK MEETING
Visit to Shattuck Crystal Cave
is Most Unique Form of En
tertainment Ever Offered
and Many Make Trip.
Characteristic of the widely re
cognized hospitality of Bisbee Elkdom,
was the closing day of the State Re
union. Bisbee Lodge, No. 671, proved
capable of entertaining on an even
more extensive scale than had been
anticipated, although all had appreci
ated that they were to witness a day
overshadowing anything before at
tempted in Arizona Elkdom. Last
night all the visitors talked of but
one thing, the hospitality of Bisbee
Elks and the generous cordiality of
Bisbee and the entire Warren Dis
trict. Of course, the big feature was the
reception ia the Crystal Cave. But
the whole day was a gala occasion
and the entire Warren District was
gay with the colors of Elkdom and
cheery with the sincere cheer which
cannot fail to prevail wherever the
spirit of true Elkdom is predominant.
The dance, last night, at Vista Park,
Warren, was the final triumph of
three days of brilliant success. Hun
dreds of young people were at the
park and from seventy-five to a hun
dred couples were dancing throughout
the evening. Conditions were suffi
ciently summer-like to insure the
comfort of all dancers and the muaic
by the Copper Queen Band, naturally,
was of the highest order.
The Cave Celebration.
Probably no lodge in America has
ever entertained its guests in such a
novel maimer as that adopted by the
Eisbee Elks yesterday when they ex
tended the true hospitality of Elkdom
amid the beautiful natural wonders of
the Shattuck Crystal Cave. The
statement that the reception to Elks
and their ladies and guests was unique
in the history of Elkdom does not
savor of exaggeration.
While the exact number enjoying
the exceptional opportunity of view
ing one of the natural wonders of
kAmerica cannot be given, it may fair
ly be said that, certainly, more than
1.0!0 members of Elkdom and their
guests assembled in the wonderful
Shattuck cave. Automobiles from all
parts of the District were pressed into
service, all local Elks contributing
services of machine and driver and
many visiting brothers donating the
use of their cars. Indeed, in several
instances cars bad been shipped here
for the sole purpose of transporting
members and guests on this occasion.
Much more like a scene in some
Fairyland of fiction than a reality of
nature was the effect of the crystal
white cave, illuminated in the most
impressive manner of modern electri
city. Happy guests thronging every
recess of the cave and the uniformed
musicians contributed to an effect sel
dom realized in actual life. Copper
Queen musicians furnished the best
of the new musical numbers and there
was a weird element In the echoing
of the music through the subterranean
passages.
L. C. Shattuck and Joe Walker
were truly hospitable hosts to the thou
sand visitors and they overlooked no
detail which might have added to the
happiness of their guests. Mrs. I.a
More supervised the activities at
tendant upon serving the bountiful
lunch to the visitors, whose strenuous
explorations had produced hearty ap
petites. Many couples joined in the dance,
both before and after lunch, and all
the dancers will long remember the
occasion as the most wonderful ex
perience of their lives.
ICE JAM BREAKS.
ST. PAUL. April 9 With the break
ing of an ice jam behind which was
one million feet of logs at Elk River,
thirty-flve miles of here, a six foot
wall of water was released which
reached Minneapolis shortly after
midnight. Four hundred persons were
rescued from the flats in Minneapolis
by the police.
UPRII 1!! OfT;?
; ni MIL IU ULI :
ilFORMEll
!! RIG ARMY i
- mi i
Will I
UlLL 1
Senate Agrees That, With the
Exception of Monday and
Tuesday, Balance of Inte
rim Goes to Measure.
,
CONFERENCE ACTION
MAY SEE SURPRISES
Volunteer Plan, of the Senate,
May Go in Trade for a Lar
ger Standing Army in Peace
Times. 4
v- SENATE:
Met at 11 a. ni.
Rew.ir.pd debate on army raor
g:i nidation bill. v
HOUSE:
Met at 11 a. ni.
Rivers and harbors appropria
tion bill discussion continued.
Secretary Baker of the War de
partment appeared before the mil
itary sub-committee.
SENATE:
Agreement reached to vote Tues
day on free sugar repeal and April
18 on army bill.
Passed $1S.OOO,000 annual ap
propriation bill.
Recessed at 4:35 p. in. to 11 u.
. Mondav.
HOUSE:
Adjourned at 5:36 p. ni. to 11
a. m.
WASHINGTON, April 18. With the
final vote on the army reorganization
bill assured the Senate on April IS.
there is still much speculation as to
the probable form in which the first
greatt national preparedness meas
ures will go to the joint conference
committee of the senate and house.
. The Senate agreed today to devote
to the army bil lall its sessions be
tween now and April IS, with the ex
ception of next Momiay and Tuesday
which were reserved for discussion of
the free sugar repeal bill. The agree
ment contemplates final disposition of
the army bill before adpnurnnient
April 18.
Some senators anticipate t hat a
considerable increase will be made by
the Senate over the committee's pro
posal to fix the peace strength of the
standing army at 180,000 enlisted
men. Both Republican and democra
tic members have declared on the
floor that they would support amend
ment for a greater figure, some ad
vocating as large a force as 300.000.
Senator Chamberlain originally pro
posed a peace strength of 220,000.
The bill passed by the House provid
es for a peace strength of 140.000 and
the struggele to come in the committee
is expected to be sharply outlined.
The Senate's volunteer army pro
posal, retained in the bill by a close
vote, is a miniature repetition of the
abandoned continental army scheme..
With different elements to consider,
many senators believe it is impossi
ble that the volunteer plan can be
traded out in confrer.ee for an increase
over the House regular army figures,
the authorization for citizen's training
camps being retained by adopting the
House provision in that connection.
None o fthe pending amendments
was voted on.
Senator Lewis took the senate to
task for the time It was devoting to
consideration of the bill. Declaring
the diplomatic situation was a pre
carious one and the Mexican situa
tion "multiplies daily. Senator Lewis
continued, "we cannot utter a doc
trine and ignore its action."
The reference to Mexico drew from
Senator Chamberlain and. Senator
Stone, chairman of the foreign rela
tions committee, the statement that,
the army reorganization bill had no
connection with the situation beyond
the border.
"I would have the people in Mexico
understand, said Senator Stone, "that
the movement to Increase the power
of the United States would have been
just the same as if there had been
no Mexican situation."
K EN YON ON PREPAREDNESS.
WASHINGTON. April 8-I.eglsla-tors
who seek to cloak all sorts of pro
posals under a pleas of preparedness
were denounced In the Senate today
bySenator Kenyon. In a speech of
oppositio nto the President to pro
vide for a government owned fertiliz
er plant the senator read a letter from
a former constituent urging for a post
office and public building "round like a
fort" and with ornamental turrets and
peaks for lookouts, so that "when men
are at the front fighting an invader,
(Continued on Page $)
DEMOCRATS CONGRATULA
TED. WASHINGTON. April S.
Sfuuti.r Snioot congratulated
De mocrats upon the acceptance
of the lutuiininration amend
ment for chaiigins the consel
..r title, adding when the
Kepubli.-ans several years ago
attempted to make the same
ciiange "the Democrats spent
ma:iy nights trying to show the
absurdity of it.". The House
has yet to pass upcu the provision.
rr '
REPUBLICANS 1(1
New York G. O. P. Conven
tion Meets As Does Also
the Hamilton Club in Chi
cago. ..
Resiinliriln"
Vir-V YfllHf Anril s
. .. . . . , . .
to pleas that a crisis confronts both
the KetiuhHcan nartv and the country.
PREPARATIONS
UPQHCDMPLETE
UNITY OF PART?:
and that the national situation ought jGermany. on April 5. handed Ambas
to take precedence over factional dls-lsHdor Gerard an in'erim note, replying
putes the newly elected Republican to the inquiries of the United Stn'es
state convention, at a meeting today government, regarding the Sussex ami
to effect organization, has elected as four other steamers, the matter of re
chairman. Frederick C. -Tanner of this yponsibility was still in doubt and the.
tlty. 1 lie results are regarded by the
chairman's friends as adding strength
to the movement favoring Supreme
Court Justice Chas. K. Hughes of the
F residency ana toweru. lor uover-
nor. t liarles H. vs hitman
.So cn(!;';.t.. president whs
mentioned either by Kpeafccrs or in a
resolution.
This memorial urged the nomination
of a Tried Republican, in whose re
cord and character the caution can
relv as a guarantee for wise states
manship in the management of
eign and domestic affairs.'
Mr.. Tanner later indicated that per
sonally, he was opposed to Theodore
Rosevelt, but he would not make
know a preference between Justice
Hushes and Mr. Root. "He must be a destroyed by a German torpedo and
real Republican," the chairman said. ,hat Germany is in no wise responsi
"He ram be a Republican, enrolled DiP
as a republican, who has been in the. From the ieterial at hand it will al
party for a number of years I hope T (OS(sib,e ,0 re,,ly to ,nu Ameri.
n t d" UPUhliran ',U b- nomi- can in,)niry regarding the steamers
""The political situation is unmatch- Englishman. Manchester Engineer Ea
ed in all our historv. There is a"! 1 0'nt ?.nd rw'nd,' nnU es ab
marked desire for Republican restora-' Iish- ""ordrng to the Cerman conten
tion, for our industrial sake as wlien:tion ,,uit no bl8me t,('h' 0 Germa
the American people turned hopefully i1v-
to William Mckinley in 196. and there
is an anxiety for our nationality not
unlike that which brought out Abra
ham Lincoln in IStiO.
"We believe today in the Republican !
party and that it has labored to the' sex surrounds the position in the itu
people's advancement and the nation- 'at ion with further difficulties and may
al. development, and we mean to hold turn action, ir anv is taken, from the
the charter of Republicanism invlo- SlIsf,ex rase itself to the accumulation
late.
"We believe as cordially today, as
eve- in our history, in .the great es
sential of Republican representative
j democracy and the helpful American I
poli. y of tariff protection and we can:oenrp lmenQeo; provf .ega.iy u.ai
see therein more than the promise of ihe n ' destroyed by a f.ermnn
party success. submarine, will have to proceed fur-
Political wiiims will come and go. ,ner. Additional evidence in the form
eminent personalities will ever hav:pf sn'davits and statements gathered
their influence, but nothing changes ,ne American embassy in Paris is
political principles in their great es-!rrivins on the steamer St. Paul due
sentials. Some times they are oh- in New York tomorrow and will be in
scured. hut not for long." .President Wilson's hands today.
Asserting that the tariff would be!
me great issue oi tne coming cam
paign the speaker added:
"There will be more spectacular is
sues, there will be the patriotic appeal
for preparedness, with Republicans
pledged to an adequate program for
national defense.
"One is reluctant to criticise the ad-
ministration in its foreign policy at
a time of anxiety like the present di.y. I
l 11 uir-au,
I had rather present a united front I 'is'". '- "Keiy mat orasur
to the world even al the sacrifice of!r','"on 's r!1,lod for- ''""xre" will l
some notions of my own, rather than ccnsiill.d.
convey the impression of a divided A" "' evidence thu.-. far obtained
people. i-idicaii-d that the Sussex wn torpe-
doed. There are two weaknesses in
CHICAGO. April 8. Republican " '' "f he United States at this
leaders from various sections of the'tine: one is that no American citiz-n
country met tonight at the Appomatox saw the wake of the torpedo. The oth
cluh in the Hamilton club. Among, er is that, while American naval offi---the
speakers were Senator Warren' ers declare that the pieces of metal re
G. Harding of Ohio, named yesterday j moved from the hulk are parts of a
as temporary chairman of the Repuh-; C riniin torpedo, there is, as far ss
lican National convention. Senator L. (known, no conclusive evidence at this
V. Sherman, of Illinois, presidental ; time ,imt ,nt IIle,ai fragments actual
candidate and former Senator E. J. j v were removed from the Sussex Of-
Hurkett of New Jersey, were pres
ent. Senator Harding, responding to
the toast "looking forward," extolled
republicanism and predicted a speedy
tion.
Of the disruption of the party he
said:
"It is useless to talk of 1912. I had
rather forget it and let a nation wea
ried enough by the democratic party.
join us in four year of happiuess. I
There is every assurance of the con-ithe
(Continued on Page S) 1
i DEIL MADE
mmm
OF SUSSFX
: BUI
Admiralty Informs Associated
Press that Investigation
Shows No Submarines or
War Ships Sunk Vessel.
INVESTIGATION OF
DUTCH SHIP MADE
Washington Still Collecting
Evidence. No Inference of
What Will be Done in the
Case Has Been Made.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
RERUN. April 8. The German gov
; eminent is able 'o announce that no
Ger:ua-i suh r.rine or warship was rc-
MKiiisjliU for the explosion which dani-
! e "
aged the British steamer Sussex. When
(investigation was still proceeding. The
i German foreign office, realizing the
j snxiety of the United States over these
traniinlitled an interim response
tlp,.,arjn s le readiness of the govern-
intent, should the Sussex prove lo nave
bent destroyed Sy a iorifuo conuaiy
to the understanding with the United
Slates to make ail reparation, includ
ing the payment of compensation.
Th Associated Press was aulhorita-
tievly informed today that the Invest
ror-'K''on has been completed that all the
craft which might possibly have, been
incolved in an attack on the Sussex
iipve reported and that from the re
ports of their commanders it is abso
lutely certain that the Sussex was not
WASHINGTON WORRIES
WASHINGTON, April 8. Germany's
disclaimer of responsibility for the de-
st ruction of the Channel steamer Su-
! of ships destroyed without warning
since Germany gave assurances gover
'nor these submarines campaign.
Refore the next step is taken, evl-
The situation will be thoroughly dis-
cussed at Tuesday's cabinet meeting
The United States it was officially an
nounced tonight, was beng placed in
the position a plaintiff in a court of
law. Upon the evidence o decision
will be reached and the United Stal.
will bp eventually sure that upon firm
. i . . ... .
0,.,n" ,i, 7 'iT'o "r!
c,on w ill be rendered by President
filial reports regarding the announce
ment of the German government, as
cabled ( to the United Stales in press
dispatches from Ilerlin .were lacking
tonight. The press report was accept
ed as being true.
The nn dispatches were laid be
fore President Wilson upon hj return
from hi frip down th Potonjac.
A number of statements regarding
finding of the metal fragments a-
(Continued on Tage S)
$
FARMERS WOUNDED.
MONTGOMERY CITY. Mo..
April S. George lorton, t."
years old, and his son Walter,
aged ::3, tanners, were dan
gerously wounded late today in
a revolver battle with 11. L.
Cowell, constable, and Henry
Utter, a deputy. The trouble
started when the officers tried
to take possession of the farm,
where the Lortons were living.
4Faa
Secretary Baker Makes State
ment, Declaring That When
Bandits Are Captured or!
Disbursed Troops will Stop.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON, April 8. SecrHtary
WlTlRAWALOF
PUNITIVE FORGE
RAS NOT BEEN
CONTEMPLATED
Raker, informally denying today that a,.COrding to a statement mad-
immediate withdrawal from Mexico of here tnight bv army officer holding
the Aemrican expeditionary forces a of responsibility,
was contemplated indicated that thej ..Thrr, js no f fa,.ls -
War Department had information that,said ..Even , 9hf)U,d ab
the Inite. Slates troops were close !, un(WrsIa(ld ,hat Gf.nPra, rrshinsc
upon ilia s trail and that the expedi-. wj,n ,he ,mM nu!1!Dl.r ot
tion might soon accomplish the pur- , hu , .
pose for which it was sent across the. ... , ... .
border tain lines of communication anv here
"The object of the expedition was!from m to '
stated when it was undertaken." said j !in'e t,,MI- ,he Km,rM'" ?' va b"
Secretary Raker. - It has never been ' d" Jn, trountry where he is knomn
changed. No orders have been given.! to haw "'0'nds of sympathtzers if
and the expedition is busily pursuing i no sc,uaI ""PP"11-
now. with a fair chance of an early j "With the free use of the Mexican
success." ' ;railrorts we could still hope to eCWt
Early reports that preparation for : pcmctliin-.:. but. apparently, there is
withdrawal were under way were ile- i no hope cf such a concession, at leat
clared by Mr. Raker to have "absolute-' at present. I cannot see that the t
ly no basis of any kind." All the War. my can. do anything more until the
Department's plans for pursuing the railroad problem is settled in our far
chase were going forward actively, he, or or substantial reinforcement are
declared, an order being placed only ;
today for fifteen gasoline-carrying
motor trucks for General Pershing's
campaign. The American forces
were "pushing ahead."
Publication today of the text of the
original army order to cross the bor -
der a month ago revealed that no'
specific direction to capture or kill
Villa was included. The order made
public by Major Generan Scott, chief
of staff, stated that the work of the
United States troops would "be re-
vurueu uuisneu as soon as v ma s
band or bands are known to be broker,
irp and that the Americans would
withdraw "as soon as the de facto
government is able to relieve them of
this work."
It was recalled that on the day the
troops crossed the border Secretary
Haker said their object
ture or disperse the ba
ed Columbus.
Secretary Lansing also issued a
statement today saying he knew of
no intention to withdraw the troops.
He also said no intimation had come
from the Carranza government that
de facto government oilicials thought
Gen. Pershinc hail accomnlislieil his.A statement from Mexican sources f.i-
nilssion and should return to United : nln, declared positively thM General
States territory. '.Gavira had received ordT to proceed
It was slated officially today that to Uasas C.randes to lake the field com
Gen. Funston's orders were broad "land and that he would be ucceed-;J
enough to include dealing personally , by General IVtronillo Hernandez. Gen
with Villa in case he should be en- era! Hernandez was said to be already
countered. Satisfaction with the on his way. having entrained r Villa
transportation situation was indicated Ahumada with thre,, iho-jsand men.
at the War and State Department to- Villa Ahumada is half way between
day. With private shippers getting 'Juarez and Chihuahua City .
supplies ultimately available to thej . A train which arrived here today
American troops through Mexican rail ( from Chihmihun City with several Am
ways. Secretary Lansing believes the'eticans, including two women .brought
railway situation has ceased with the'a story of the burning of the million
de facto government. j dollar plant of the Duriimo Lumber
; Company, an American concern, near
VILLA'S BODYGUARD. .ntirungo City. The plant was said to
PERSHING'S CAMP AT THE have been destroyed by Villistas tinder
FRONT. (By aeroplane and niotor(the Arrieta brothers, a pair who are.
truck to Columbus. N. M.i April 8. earnest rivals with Canuto Roves (or
The men who are reported to be the till,, of premier bandits in the ter
traveling Willi Villa now as his body, ritory about Torreon and north Duran
guard and as a rear guard against KU.
American troops, are described here Passengers on the trein said they
as some of the toughest specimens of ha, been told this story in Chihuahua
physical development which the Mex-:cjtv by Americans arriving trorn tlu
ican wars have produced. All reports mi,. jiy no said Hint one of 'he
agree that there are not more than j American aviators had landed near
five hundred of these men and some ; chihuahua ("itv earlv veterdav. and
reports Indicate there may be cod-;w!, rr,.s., Dv ,hp rarranza auihori
slderably less, especially of this body-j, , , ,ater r,.,.HSfll, on
guard type. resentations of Consul Ij-tcher.
l ney are aescriDeu as wen seasoned
men in distinction from the-boys and
lanky young men who composed the
bulk of Villa's army. They are sup-:
posed to be fairly good shots, al
though their rifles are said to be in
ferior. They have the reputation of
being able to travel without food
good sized handful of corn is passed
out to them s their entire day's r i
,jons I
WbU It is evident that there h
been great falling off ir lovalty to
Villa siuce his attack on Columbus.'
(Continued on Pase Five.)
''Dill DDAnc no
:!imiLIIUMUU Ull
i HOPS
: ip nnrftT
id oncHi
f HEED
Gen. Pershing is Hopeless in
Endeavoring to Maintain
Lines of Communication
and Hunt Bandit.
LMPORTANT DEVELOP
MENT IS EXPECTED.
More Details of the Planned
'
Kevoit or trte bamson in
Juarez. Americans were to
Have Been Object.
(By Review Leased Wire i
EL PASO. Anril S The' nursuit nf
! Villa h.-w hn hmiitht m rtortniio
sent in to General Pershing. I know
nothing about the reports thst thi
wilhdrawal of the troops is rontemplat
led. That is a question for Washington
jto decide. It is hardly necessary for
niH to say that it is a solution which
; would be a bitter pill for us."
The border is in a state tonight, of
holding its breath in anticipation of
some ureal and imminent event. State
ments from Mexican officials her. a:id
in Juarez, coupled with the dispatches
fro-n Washington, are accepted s in-
,h, , aA .-nation.
, ,rV,.op,lle.,, in ,he "situation is com-
ing.
In connection wiih this feeling, re
ports continue to come from a dozen
j different sources of the country of Car
jraitfa troops near the brder. The.-e
ndUs8who wlE!1'"? "" e Snored a.id it i, known
mm uie.v iiutt" ueen lurwarucu to
Washington as credible.
For over a wek it has been report
ed here, that additional Carranza men
were on their way to Juarez and ihitt
General Gavira. the commander in 'he
Mexican town, was to be supetvited.
The fact that the War Department
orders lo the punitive expedition, m
.made public today, contain no refer
'ence to the "kill or capture" of VilU
and state that the object of the pres
ent pursuit will be accomplished when
Villa's b:nd or bands are broken up.
tiis rei-eiven iiin undisguised piea
u h M,x" "n ofri, m,s in J"r'
.?!. 1 a!,'
Thu new conies al an opportune
ime-" "mmeiited General Gavira at
" headquarters
Lvulentlr. the killing or capture of
(Continued on Page S)
