UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, SUNDAY, APRIL 9, 1916
EIGHT PAGES.
NUMBER 189
I
IL Ull UUI1UI
TRIAL IN CALLAWAY;
lllflrp Hirric CJrinfc Pinners
Juusc narns oranis inange
of Venue to Centralia Man
Accused of Murder.
BAIL IS SET AT S5.000
Testimony Is Given That
Prejudice Against Former
Officer is Strong.
That the life of William Henry Bald
ridge, charged with the murder of
Dr. J. Quintus Cooper at Centralia,
has been threatened since the killing wa'" lhc' saitl-
, ,,-., , lialdridge, after bidding the sheriff
by people living in Boone Countv and ! , , " ,,,,., i , u ...
' - and deputies goodhv, left for his home
that the sentiment of the county is)in Ccntralia accompanied by his
strongly prejudiced against him were brother, his brother-in-law, wife and
arguments advanced by his attorneys j two daughters,
in obtaining a change of venue for .
him before Judge David H. Harris
yesterday in the Circuit t,ourt.
An application for bail was then
Tiled. The bail, which was set at
$5,000 to assure his appearance May
l.- in the Circuit Court at Fulton, was
furnished by It. II. lialdridge of Kan
sas City, a brother of tli? defendant,
and W. W. Jennings, a fanner living
near Cetiilralia. lialdridge left for
Centralia toon after he was let out on
bail. On granting the bail. Judge
David II. Harris said that anyone
charged with first-degree murder
might be admitted to bond unless the
presumption of his guilt was great.
Sheriff Sapp Testifies.
Bert Sapp, sheriff, testified for the
defendant that he had heard people
say that lialdridge could not get jus
tice in Boone County "because they do
not hang anyone here for murder."
He also said that some one called him
by telephone soon after the killing
and asked if tlie jail was locked, and
on reply that it was, said, "Keep it
locked and let lialdridge rot away."
Don Carter, an attorney at Stur
geon, testified that last Sunday three
men said that if they had the right to
pronounce punishment en Baldridge,
they would hang him to the first tree
they saw.
C. W. Settle, a banker at Centralia,
said that sentiment at Centralia was
very strong against Baldridge. He
said that the people there went so far
as to say they would boycott anyone
who signed Baldridge's bond.
The state attempted to show that
the prejudice against Baldridge was
strong only at the time of the killing.
By introducing witnesses from and
near Ashland and the southern part of
the county, the state attempted also
to show that there has been very lit
tle discussion of the case in the coun
ty outside of Centralia, Hallsville and
Columbia.
The State's Witnesses.
The witnesses for the state were:
J. I). Hart, owner of a public service
car between here and Ashland; H. B.
Bush, a local insurance writar and
real estate dealer; Thomas II. Arm
strong, a farmer living three miles
northwest of Columbia: Joe Baum
gartner. a. farmer living three miles
east of Columbia; W. B Nowell. a local
grocer: J. H. Held, former public ad
ministrator: Kohert Akeman. a far
mer living seven miles north of Colum
bia; D. M. Bunihani. owner of a hotel
at Ashland: J. II. Malian. a farmer
living seven miles southwest of Co
lumbia, and C. YV. Ellis, a farmer liv- j
ing near ,v&iiia.iu. ,
The witnesses for Clip defendant (
worn- Don Carter, an attorney at i
Sturgeon- Bert Sapp. Boone County
cWrifT- w ti Hnlett in attornev at'
rrnitriiiT r W "settle a banker at
Centr.ili.i- R. F. Ouisenberry, a
nior near Hallsville: Shannon Mount-
joy. formerly of the Columbia Daily
Times: Hollis Edwards of the Colum
bia Daily Tribune: F. E. Bysiield. a
merchant at Rocheport, and Everett
Martin, cashier of the Bass-Johnston
Bank at Ashland.
T G. Vanlandingham of Centralia j
and Shannon Mountjoy of Columbia j
signed the affidavit for tlie change of J
venue for Baldridge.
Wife and Handlers There. ,
During the complete examination of
the witnesses, the wife and two daugh
ters of Baldridge sat on one side of
the court room while on the opposite
side of the room, in the same aisle,
sat the gray-haired father of the dead
Centralia doctor.
When the judge announced his de
cision granting the change of venue
and bail, Baldridge's wife and daugh
ters wept with joy. As their father
stepped out of the court room, without
a deputy sheriff by his side, for the
THE WEATHER
(Itejmrt Issued Ssititrflu.v Mnrnlnc.)
l'nr Ciiliimliia :iml Vicinity: Sunday
partly eluiiiljr weather ami eoM, Imt uiixl-ir.ttln;.-
in tin- afternoon.
I'or Missouri: Sumlay partly cloudy
ami not m colli.
VtVatlier Condition.
Tli storm that was central near tlie
montli of the .Mississippi 1 riilay morn
i '" ''"' "noveil to the North "Carolina
,,,.,,.,. T. storm's influence hueier.
still Is pronounced In all of tin - pastern
states, ami roaches westward t Kansas.
Sunn- continues Saturday morning from
Missouri ami Iowa northeast In the Ohio
valley ami to the Atlantic coast: south
of the Ohio the precipitation Is In the form
of ralu.
A lil-li pressure wave covers the upper
Plains, accompanied by fair and cold
weather, which will reach the Mississippi
during the next -1 hours.
Oenrliic skies and rather cold weather
will prevail In Columbia during the next
"i' hours, moderating somewhat toward the
close of the ierlml.
first time since tlie killing, they threw
their armn around him in turn.
"We knew it would come out this
R. H. TURNER TO TOKIO
Journalism Senior Will Join
Other Missourians on
Japan Advertiser.
Kalph H. Turner of Bartlesville,
Okla., a senior in the School of
Journalism and student editor of the
University Missourian, will leave Co
lumbia directly after commencement
for Tokio Japan, where he will be
employed on the editorial staff of the
Japan Advertiser. He will sail from
San Francisco June 10 on the Tenyo
Maru.
The Advertiser already has on its ;
staff two men from the School of
Journalism Prof. Frank L. Martin,!
who is on a year's leave of absence I
from the University, and Joseph Glenn
Babb, a last year's graduate, son of
J. G. Babb of Columbia. Professor
Martin will return to Columbia in
time for the fall opening of school,
while Babb will remain in Tokio.
The association of Babb and
Turner in newspaper work on the
other side of the world follows a close ,
association in school work here. Babb i
now does much of the reporting, fea-
ture writing and copy editing for the ,
Advertiser, which is one of the leading
English papers of the Orient. Turner's
work probably will be the manage- j
ment of a news bureau which the Ad-
vcrtiser has just established.
The Tokio "colony" of former Mis-!
souri journalism students is one of I
two such groups in foreign countries. '
The other is at Regina, Canada, where J
four former students are with the j
Evening Province, one of them, Hugh ,
MacICay, as part owner and general .
manager. .
'
KECOMMEXDS SAVITAK STAFF
i
Itoanl Xames List of 'Candidates for !
Amirowil of Student Council. ' !
Recommendations of candidates to tains -a municipal rock quarry which
run for positions on the Savitar staff enab,es the unemployed in the winter
have been made bv the Savitar Board I to obtain temporary employment, thus
and sent to the Student Council for ap-' ti(,lnS thei ver the period of dis
proval. With the approval of the ! tress- In u the 1uarr-v Kave work
Council the following persons will be to nearI.v 2-300 mcn for from 01,G da'
placed on the ballot at the student to a month. The crushed rock is sold
election this spring: to municipal enterprises.
For Managing Editor, Duke X. "A remedial loan agency is also
Parry. ! maintained by the board." said the
For Advertising Manaser: Morris j speaker. "This agency lends money
K. Jacob and J. Paul Johnson. en household goods and jewelry to in-
For Associate Editors: John B. 'digent persons at a small interest.
Carlisle, Howard Bassett. Mary Ixm- ! Last year nearly $350,000 was loaned
ise Brown, Raymond P. Brandt, Mary to men and women who were tempo
CT,i,,i, o.,a-r,
u
Ots Bohemian Orcharding Book. I
Irof- J- O. Rankin has received a ,
copy of a book on orcharding, pub- ,
far-.lished in Bohemian
A great deal of j
the material in the book was furnished i
by the CoIIoge of Agriculture. The j cial distress. Tlie bureau is recov
book is being distributed among Bo-Jcring small wage claims; it forces de
hemian farmers in America and con- i linquent husbands to care for their
tains directions for caring for fruit
trees. In getting out this hook the pub
lisher used bulletins of the University '
and also ontainai several pictures lor ,
cuts from here. ,
Uanghter for Searcy Pollard. i
A nine-pound baby daughter was
born Friday morning to .ir. ana .urs.
Searcy Pollard at their home at 321
Xorth Xinth street. The young ladyling a Rreat many abtlses incident to
nar neen cnnsieneu r.uiju .ai. ..u.,
Pollard is deputy circuit clerk of
Boone County.
To Chicago for Spring Bujinc.
Miss Eula Tucker and Miss E. L.
Shepard will leave this morning for
Chicago, -v will do spring
buying "ird Millinery
Stor
TELLS AOVANTAGES
OP PAROLE SYSTEM
Jacob Billikopf at Assembly
Explains the Kansas City
Reform Work.
FEW VIOLATE WORD
Loan Agency, Municipal
Farm and Other Activi
ties Are Kept Up.
The work of the parole department,
the municipal farm, the city rock quar
ry, the remedial loan agency, the only
jfree legal aid bureau in the country
and the recreation department, six of
the fifteen activities operated by the
Board of Public Welfare, a non-political
organization of Kansas City, was
explained in the University Auditor
ium Friday night by Jacob Billikopf,
a member of that board and non-resident
sociological lecturer of the Uni
versity. "The parole department, since its
inception in 1000, has paroled nearly
12,000 men and women, of whom, ac
cording to our carefully compiled
records, 75 per cent have made good
in that they were restored to useful
manhood and womanhood," said Mr.
Billikopf. "About 10 per cent were
recommitted to the correctional in
stitution on account of failure to com
ply with provisions of the parole or
because they committed further in
fractions against the law. The re
maining 15 per cent, left the city for
J parts unknown and could not be ac-
counted for.
"Paroled Persons Earn S'JOO.OOfl."
"Last year our men and women on
parole earned nearly $200,000. About
$17,000 was brought to the parole de
partment by men who were original
lv arrested on account of failure to
provide for their families.
I "The municipal farm," continued
j Mr. Billikipf. "consisting of nearly 200
acres, is about ten miles from Kansas
City. On that farm we have about
275 men doing useful and productive
labor, thus regaining their health.
self-respect and habits of industry,
..Tn the last four vears prjsoners
have ma(le mally improvements, such
af) erection of "houses, dormitories,
roa(ls aIm a tuberculosis hospital,
These improvements are valued at
i $250,000. The remarkable thing about
this is that while in the old work-
house about 2-0 en allJ womcn werc
1;ept , a comi,iete state f idleness
am, demoralization, on the farm, every
n,all ,s actally earning a little in
excess of what is costs the citv to
kcen him But the nloral antl ctnical
effects are far more important than
the economic aspects of the situa-
tion.
Municipal Rock Quarry Kept.
The Board of Public Welfare main-
rarily embarrassed, thus securing them
from the clutches of the loan sharks.
"We operate the only free legal aid
bureau in the country, financed by
municipal funds. Last year nearly 4
000 cases were handled, involving ev-
ery form of mental, physical and so-
wives and children; it straightens out
domestic difficulties and concerns it-
self with various other forms involving
legal auvice.
Board Controls Amusements,
"By means of its recreation de-
partment, the board exercises super-
vision ovcr slIcn commercial amuse-
ment3 as the moving picture shows,
Dool halls and dances thna nr.v.ni.
unsupervised commercial
ments."
amuse-
, Mr. Billikopf did not have time to
cover the remainder of the board's
j fifteen activities, such as the housing.
iactory inspection and social research
bureaus. Miss Eva Marquis and I. W
Potter, former students of the Uni-
versity, are engaged in some of thel
operations of the board.
TARIFF AGAIN TO BE
REPUBLICAN PLANK
i . e 1 T 1" "
Chicago Speeches Indicate G.
O. P. Campaign Will Be
Waged on Old Issue.
HARDING IS NEUTRAL
Keynote Speaker Fails to
Mention Names of Any
Presidential Candidates.
Il.v United Press.
CHICAGO, April S. The Republi- j
can party will make its principal cam-
ttnifn Hiic vour nn Ifc ctfinrlK.. fnf 1
cades-the tariff-if the address here ' S,ULhcr: cf; mrn or Hamilton,
tonight of Senator Warren 0. Harding : Ba J; McMillan. 2b; Bryant,
of Ohio, a "keynote" speaker for his;Mr?an' Taylor or Keeling, p.
party, is a criterion of the party's
platform.
Harding, addressing the Hamilton
Club in his first speech since he was
named temporary chairman of the
convention, did not mention the name
of a single candidate for president.
Senator Lawrence Y. Sherman of
Illinois, a candidate for President,
who also addressed the club, hewed
close to the line on the tariff, indi
cating that this issue is again to be
the G. O. P. slogan in the presidential
race.
MEXICO VS. SIKESTOX HEISE
High Schools to Play for State Basket
ball Championship.
A basketball game for the state
high school championship, exclusive
of St. Louis and Kansas City, will be
played at Rothwell Gymnasium Wed
nesday. Sikeston accepted Mexico's
challenge to all district champions of
the state and Columbia was selected
as the best neutral point for the con
test. Xeither of the schools has lost
a game.
The St. Louis Republic named the
six high schools of tHe state which
could be called district champions,
but none of which had played teams
from all parts of the state. Mexico,
Webster Groves, St. Joseph, Central,
Sikeston, Joplin and Breckenridge
were the schools named. Mexico Im
mediately issued a challenge to all
the other schools. Joplin relinquish
ed its claims to the championship, and
of the other schools, Sikeston was the J
only one to accept the challenge. The!toniRht The rest of cw
victor in the game next Wednesday
, M rtlf i.s nFAnn,ll Itn nnniiiiln.nil 1
the state champion.
A special train will be run from
-Mexico to accommodate the expected
S00 rooters. C. L. Brewer will have
charge of the game.
I DIE IN AOTO RACE:
Bob Burman, Speed King,
Probably Fatally Injured
at Corona, Cal.
Ilj- United Press.
COROXA, Cal., April S. "Wild
Bob" Burman was probably fatally in
jured and his mechanician and a spe
cial policeman were killed when Bur-
man's big Peugeot car turned over on
tlie ninety-seventh lap of the 300-
mile Corona road race this afternoon.
The race was won by Eddie O'Don-
nell in a Deusenberg. The time was
3 hours. 29 minutes and 52 seconds.
Joe Thomas in a Mercer was second.
T. K. SMITH TO WEI) APRIL
Miss Jane Howard Wells Will
Bride of M. I". Graduate.
lie
Invitations have been issued to the
wedding of Tom K. Smith, one of the I
uest known grauuates or tne unner- Mn? E w stpncn.t president, ap
sitv. and Miss Jane Howard Wclls.i ..-., - !.. . i i ti,
daughter of Rolla Wells, former mayor
of St. Louis. The wedding will be
at the Central Presbyterian Church
in St. Louis Thursday evening, April
Mr. Smith received his A. B. from
the University in 1901. He is a mem
ber of the Phi Gamma Delta fra
ternity. He Is in the bonding busi
ness in St. Louis, being a member of!
the firm of Kauffman, Smith, Emert
&. Company.
F. W. Flojd "Vaults-' to Geology Job.
Florin W ("Prof.") Floyd, pole
vaulter and assistant in geology, has
been appointed assistant geologist for
the Continental Oil and Gas Company
of Bartlesville, Okla. Edgar W. Owen,
also an assistant in geology at the
University, will work for this oil com-
I cany
I pany next year.
TO PLAY BLLEJAYS TUESDAY
Game Postponed From Yesterday on
Account of Soggy Field.
, If the weather permits, the Tigers,
'and Westminster College will open
the local baseball season Tuesday on'
the new -field. Though the weather '
"s.. iuuuu lire ni-UUILT
cleared P yesterday, the rain and
snow of the day before had left thi
field in such a soggy condition that
the game had to be postponed.
The formal dedication of the field
will not take place until the game
with Central College Saturday. The
parade, speeches and other events will
take place then just as planned for
yesterday.
Director Brewer says that the line
up for Tuesday's game probably will
be chosen from the same men sched
uled to play yesterday. They are:
Farmer, ss: Woodv. ef: Hoirir. ih-
'Giltner or Owens, If; Dippold or
DENIES SUSSEX BLAME
Germany in Unofficial Re
port, Disclaims All Re
sponsibility for Disaster.
I!y United Tress.
WASHIXGTOX, April S. An unof
ficial report received tonight from
Germany denied the responsibility of
sinking the Sussex, declaring no Ger
man submarine was in the vicinity
when the Sussex went down. The
State Department has received no ad
vices from Ambassador Girard.
ITALY PLAXS OFFEXSIYE MOVE
Xcw Campaign, IletNed at Allied Con
ference, May start May 1.
I!.v rnltttf Press.
VIEXXA. April S. The Italians are
expected to start a general offensive
movement before .May 1. The move
is believed to have been planned at
the Allied conference in Paris.
The official statement tonight men
tions skirmishes on the Isonzo front
and records the loss of three Austrian
aeroplanes in a raid on an Italian
railway depot.
British Lfner Sunk: Xine Browned.
ISy United Press.
LOXDOX, April 0. Xine of the crew
of the British liner Chantala were
drowned when the vessel was sunk,
according to dispatches received here
saved.
I'AI'EK PKAISKS X. V. SVMP1KOV
j .ifemlicrs of Audience Came 100 Miles
j ( jiar Concert.
The Grand Forks (X. D.) Daily Her-
, aid of March SI prints a highly favor
able criticism of the Xew York Sym-
; phony Orchestra, which will play in
the University Auditorium here May 9.
According to the Herald, the audience
assembled from a circle of 100-mile
radius. This concert marked the cli
max of the musical season at Grand
Forks. Walter Damrosch, director,
land Josef Hoffman, pianist, made the
(greatest attraction.
I The Herald speaks of the absence
of mannerisms in Mr. Damrosch, and
the beauty of his interpretations.
Josef Hoffmann, of course, was pro
nounced perfect; lie is considered the
leading concert pianist of the world.
FOR MTOVIK" CEXSOKSHIP
Baptist Ladies' Aid Society Also Fa
iors a Library Here.
Th? Ladies' AidSociety of the Bap
tist Church held an all-day meeting
Friday at the church annex. At the
business meeting in the afternoon it
I was ncciueu iiuu me wucij uum ,
.,,-, it... i,. 1.. ..-.. i.i
st.inil for state eensorshin of moving
',, et, on,i .m ,un work
for a CarneRle jjurary.
I'ltnuf nmni.i u" i u.t'u. .-...-
J. 'of a case of CRRS to be sent hy j
the society as an Easter gift to the
Baptist Home at Ironton. Mo.
K. I'. BESTS MISSOURI HEBATEIIS
2 to 1 Decision Against Abolition of
Intercollegiate Atlili-t.
The Kansas debating team defeated
Missouri at Lawrence Friday night,
xile decision was two to one. Th
Missouri team maintained that inter
collegiate athletics should be abol
ished. Fred Gableman. Jr., I M.
Fischer and W. R. Fuller debated for
Missouri.
Academs Win at Christian.
, The Academs of Christian College
defeated the college girls last night by
a score of 18 to 12, thus winning the
"rubber" of three games.
DANGER OP REVOLT
HURRIES VILLA HUNT
U.S. Must Withdraw Troops
Unless Bandit Is Caught
Carranza Generals Balky.
BORDER IN A FLURRY
Pershing, Speeding After the
Mexicans, Loses Communi
cation Victory Again.
l!y Unlteil Press.
EL PASO. April S. The American
expedition is making a desperate ef
fort to capture Villa quickly. The dan
ger of Carranza being unable to con
trol some of his generals has given the
'American pursuit an impetus which
lias thrown the border into intense ex
cotement over prospects of immediate
success.
The highest ollicial r uthorities admit
tonight that unless Villa is caught soon
the United States must withdraw her
troops or Carranza wil face a revolt of
nearly all of the generals. General
Pershing is reported to be riding hard
after Villa in the Parral district.
Carranza soldiers are reported to
have burned the plant of tlTe Durango
Lumber Company. American owned
and located in Durango County, Mexi
co. The industry is the largest there.
Pershing Beyond Communication.
Uy Unlteil Press.
SAX AXTOXIO. April S. General
Pershing's snurt after Villa has car
ried him out of communication with
the most advanced base. General Funs
ton believed tonight.
Xo word has been received at head
quarters from any of the commanders
in force. It is asumed that Pershing's
men are traveling so rapidly that they
had no time to communicate. Aero
planes carrying dispatches have been
unable to reach the speeding columns.
The Americans were last reported
south of Cusihui-Rachic, chasing Villa
toward Parral.
More Villistas Killed, Is Iteport.
Rj- United Press
COLUMBUS, X. M., April S. Eight
een Villistas were killed in a battle
with troops of the Thirteenth United
States Cavalry under Major Frank
Tomkins, who overtook Villa's rear
guard southeast of Satevo Thursday,
according to an unconfirmed report
brought here tonight by a civilian re
turning from the Mexican border. Xo
Americans were killed or wounded.
Military officials think it posible the
report may be a repetition of tlie story
of Colonel W. G. Brown's victory ovcr
the Villistas at Agua Calientes a week
ago.
XEW RECTOR XOT YET XAMEB
Vestry of Episcopal Church Is Receiv
ing Applications.
"Since the resignation of Rector
Bate we have received applications
from two highly recommended rec
tors, but as yet we have made no de
cision," said C. II. Rollins, a member
of the vestry, of Calvary Episcopal
Church, yesterday. "We will make no
hasty decision, but will wait until we
are sure we have found the right man.
Until then th- services will be con
ducted by a student lay reader or
clergymen from other cities."
There will be no morning or evening
services at the church today. Sunday
school will meet as usual.
HR. AMES TO LECTURE TIESHAY
Clilraco I". Professor Will Speak at
Assembly at 2 p. m.
Dr. Edward Scribner Ames, assistant
professor of philosophy in the Uni
versity of Chicago, will give an ad
dress before the University Assembly
at 2 o'clock Tuesday afternoon. "Be
ing Human" will be the subject.
All University exorcises from 2 to
3 o'clock Tuesday will be suspended.
Merchant to Discuss Costs.
"What It Costs to Do Retail BusI-
! ness" will be discussed from the view-
'point of a druggist, a grocer, a hard-
I ware dealer, a Jeweler and a shoe
( deacr at tJp monthl. meetinK of the
I Retail Merchants' Association tomor-
j , , , T, st,eaker!, wlII bo Dr
B. II. Taylor, W. B. Xowell, Jr., I,. E.
Renie. H. B. Goctz and C. B. Miller.
Sandwiches and coffee will be served.
Rabbi Thnrman of St. Louis to Preach.
Rabbi Samuel Thnrman of the Un'
ted Hebrew Congregation of St. Louis
will conduct the services of the Jew
ish Students' Congregation at 7:15
o'clock tonight In the Y. M. C. A. Audi
torium. His sermon will be "The
Religious Ideal and the College."
The public Is invited.
