iiiliii
'.; MAILS
frm ten PranstsMi
Larline, Feb. S.
For tan Francisco:
r
Great Northern. Feb. -3.
From Va.-ouvar:
fiakara. Feb. 23.
l
F Vancouver:
Makura. Feb. .".
Kvening Bulletin. Kst. 1S2, No. 63K9
Hawaiian Star. Vol. XXIII. No. 7430
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII, r;KIlAY, FEBRUARY 4, liH;.-l- I'AGhX
PRICE FIVE CENTO
Ol
0
D
rvti
ii
3:3 : '
I -
1
Edition
mm
Y',
MIDDLE WEST IS
LIKELY TO DOWN
DIG ARMY PLANS
f .
!
Former Congressman Garber
of Ohio Tells of Attitude
i of Inlanders
i ;
i GIVE UP PHILIPPINES
AND MOVE TROOPS
. J
One Time Member, of House
Naval Committee, Now Here,
Favors Big Fleet for Hawaii
"President Wilson's plan to make
the navy of the Tutted States the
most powerful In the world, will have
the support of the mainland voters,
almost to a man. but t'i3 plan for a
large standing army will :.e opposed.
nd probably defeated, by. the inland
states the great .Middle West.
That is the opinion cf Harvey 0.
Carber of Columbus, Ohio, former
congressman from that state who.
with Chris E. Markey of Los Angeles,
is now visiting In Honolulu. Mr. Gar
ber returns to the mainland in the
Matsonla next week, but Mr. Markey
may locate here. Mr. Markey was
Mr. Garber's private secretary when
the latter was in Congress.
"People of the interior states do not
favor a large standing army," contin
ued Mr. Garber. "though they see the
need of a powerful navy.
' For my own part I approve a great
strengthening of the defenses of Oahu.
Porto Rico and all our other islands,
except the Philippines, and a great in
crease in coast defenses on the Atlan
tic, the Pacific and on the Gulf of
Mexico.
Too Far From Basel.
"The Philippines, I thinkwe should
relinquish at an early date. We do
not want to keep them, and in the
event of war we would inevitably lose
them, for, they are too far from our
bases. v-';'.'--
. "For my part I would not be averse
vto seeing Japan control those. islands,
br at-least direct their policy, because
: they are contiguous to Japan on the
south and Philippine' problems are
morc 3iie those , of JfcpanV thanbeyi
are like those of any other nation.
"We undoubtedly need a much lar
ger army, and It la unfortunate that
the wealthy Middle West, wlch fur
nishes much of the wealth o? the na
tion and from the density of it popu
lation would furnish most of the men,
la opposed to an adequate force.
"In my mind that is another argu
ment for giving up the Philippines. I
think it would be wise to bring all
of the army now in those islands to
tills territory, thereby greatly increas
ing the garrison of this island.
Regiment on Each Island.
"I should also favor having at least
one regiment of regulars on each of
the other Islands of this group. A big
increase of your coast defenses here
also is essential, as Is a powerful unit
of the navy, in order to keep you from
possible hostile attack."
Mr. Garber, who was formerly a
member of the house naval affairs
committee, is here merely for pleas
ure, but is intensely Interestedin all
v.v
(Continued on page' two
F. R. Ritchie of San Francisco
Will Complete Paving Pro
ject for $187,633.31
Bidding lower by approximately
$5000 than the estimate submitted by
the city and county engineering de
partment, F. R. Ritchie of San Fran
cisco sprung a surprise on city offi
cials and rival bidders when tenders
on the Manoa improvement project
were opened at noon today in the
clerk's office at the city hall
Ritchie's bid was $187,633.31 for the
whole job, and 1183,988.51 for all ex
cept the grading and paving o Ma
noa road from its makai boundary to
the junction with East Manoa road.
The Bitulithic Paving Company,
Ltd, J. A. Gilman president and man
ager, bid only on Proposal No. 3,'which
is for the Manoa road portion alone,
this bid being $4073.60 and including
grading and paving.
Lord-Young Engineering Company
bid on Proposal No. 2 at $191,856.
which includes all the job excepting
the grading and paving of the Manoa
road as stated above.
All three of Ue bids will be taken
up for consideration tonight at a spe
cial meeting of the city supervisors.
FORSALE
A 5-passenger car and road
ster In good condition. Tel. 3230.
I I
1 I
: im m
Canada's Great Parliament House Burned Last Night;
Man Who Directed Fire- Fighting and Dominion Premier
' I '3?'. S - ILiwwiiipi. Jill .)! iujp LiuijUMu.iiinnimiiiiwiaiiuia( Ull MUVMWI.M.. ' iwr.t'jwwiwwwwwWMt 1 1 !"' w i mSI' "
"Vwo views of the House of
of Ottawa, with a cross above the burned structure. Below is a striking View of this handsome building. The two figures are those of Sir 8am
Hughes (above), the Canadian minister of militia, who organized the work of fire-fighting and policing, and Premier Robert L. Borden (below).
DEFOLCO WANTS
$99 1 9 BECAUSE
OF OPERA SMASH
Files Suit Against High Sheriff
Jarrett and Bonding Com
; pany;' Lists Expenses
Balm in the sum of $9919.99 to cov
er the damage done to his business
through the serving of a writ of at
tachment which, he claims, forced the
de Folco Company to close its doors,
a asked by Eugenio de Folco, impres
ario, in a suit for damages filed in
circuit court today against High
Sheriff William P. Jarrett and the
I'nited States Fidelity and Guaranty
Company of Baltimore, Maryland, rep
resented here by the Waterhouse
Trust Company, which is the sheriff's
bondsman.
The sheriff's , bond is for $10,001
and de Folco asks for all of it ex
cept $81.01. He claims that he suf
fered a loss of $6500 through damage
done to the business of the company
including his loss under a lease made
in San Francisco whereby he obtained
tlie costumes, scenery, music and oth
er paraphernalia necessary to produce
the operas; $3333.33 by reason of the
reduction in value of the services of
Lis employes; $66.66 as a loss sus
tained on advertising contracts, and
$20 as a loss in the printing of lib
rettos. De Folco then relates at length re
garding the contract entered into be
tween himself and Camillo Barsotti
at San Francisco whereby de Folco
leased from the latter certain scenery,
wardrobe, fixtures, ornaments, music
and orchestration for the production
of the operas in Hnnolulu. Accord
ing to the lease, de Folco was to pay
a rental of $25t a week for a period
of six weeks.
The complaint goes on to state that
14 boxes of costumes, music and fix
tures were removed from the thea
ter. De Folco claims, among other
things, that he has bound himself to i
rtnt the opera house for the week
ending February 5 at a weekly rent
al of $200. He also claims fr was
paying out $5000 a week as specific
salaries.
SUFFERERS IN ARKANSAS
FLOODS NEED AID OF U. S.
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
LITTLE ROCK. Ark.. Feb. 4. An
urgent appeal soliciting federal aid for
tne tnousands of flood sufferers in
Arkansas is being sent to Washington
by the governor.
Parliament, at Ottawa, one of Canada's
OTTAWA POLICE
FIRE DUE TO NATURAL CAUSES
Associated Press Service by Federal Wireless. 1
OTTAWA, Ontario, Feb. 4. There will be a rigid and thorough inves
tigation of the disastrous fire which last night destroyed the Canadian
House of Parliament and cost the Uvea of at least five persons.
Today, after what examination could be made the police rejected the
theory that a bomb or infernal macnine had started the fire. They now
believe that it was due to natural causes.
Two women and three men are known to be dead and others are miss
ing. Among the missing is B. B. Law, a member of the Canadian Parlia
ment. '
The valuable library was saved by hard work. The central, which is
the main, portion of' the great building, including the magnificent towers,
was destroyed. Both wings were saved.
Some years ago the department of the Interior section of the Ottawa
parliament building was completely burned out, but so substantiaf were
the dividing walls between sections the fire did not break into any other
one.
The loss is estimated at $3,000,000.
MANY WOMEN DIE
IN FATAL FIRES
OF TY0 CITIES
I Associ&ted Press by Federal Wireless
BROOKLYN, N. Y., Feb. 4. Fire
today destroyed the home of the wid
ow of Casimir Tag, president of the
German savings bank. Ehe widow
was saved from death, but her daugh
ters, Caroline, Helen and Hannah
Shavley, a cousin, a nurse and two
servants, perished. The daughter
Caroline saved her mother.
ATLANTIC CITY. X. J.. Feb. 4
Three women and two men perished
and eight others were injured today
In a fire which destroyed the Over
brook hotel. A large crowd, helpless
to take any rescue measures, saw a
woman burn to death in a high win
dow. Several are missing, various
counts making the number from two
to six.
POPE'S ENVOY IS GIVEN
RISING SUN DECORATION
(Special Cable to Nippu Jiji)
TOKIO. Japan, Feb. 4 The envoy
of His Holiness Pope Benedict XV
was today decorated with the First
Order of the Rising Sun by Lraperor ,
Yoshihito. This decoration was given
in honor of the work that bad been
done for peace by the papal delegate.
Two grandsons must lead "good
and proper" lives to get their direct
shares in the estate of Mrs. Jane
Turnbull. who died at her home, 154
Bedford avenue, Brooklyn, January 6,
and whose will has been filed in the
effice of Surrogate Ketcham.
most imposing edifioes. Above is shown
NOW BELIEVE
IN 1 00-YD. SVIM
Associated Press by Federal Wireless
CHICAGO. Feb. 4 Four world rec
ords were broken today in the Il
linois Athletic Club swimming meet
under the auspices of the A. A. U.
Perry McGillivray smashed two world
indoor records when he negotiated the
hundred yards in 54 and the eighty
yard swim in 41 3-5 seconds. The
former record in the 10 yards was
held jointly by Duke Kahanamokti and
A. Raithel.
M. McDermott smashed the existing
mark in the 50 yards breast stroke,
making the distance in 32 seconds
flaC Harry Hebner created a new
mark in the medley swim for 100
yards when he crossed the line in i
l:f6 1-5. The present record made!
today in the indoor ino-yard swim is I
three-fifths of a second slower than
the l)0-yard outdoor mark held by
Duke Kahanamoku of Honolulu.
THINK THEY HAVE VILLA
SURROUNDEDONCE MORE
""EL PASO, Tex., Feb. 4 The Car
ranza forces have encircled Gen. Villa
between Oco Calientes and Moctezu
ma. according to Gen. Cavira, Carran
za commandant at Juarez.
DOUGLAS. Ariz.. Feb. 4. Every of
ficial in the Nogales, Sonora, customs
service has notified the Carranza gov
ernment that they will resign unless
their salaries are paid in gold. Here
tofore they have been receiving pay
in Constitutionalist paper money,
which is worth three cents on the
dollar.
ILLINOIS STAR
BREAKS RECORD
the government group and a view
NEW YORK STOCK
MARKET TODAY
i -
Yester.
Today, day.
Alaska Gold 22 23 '2
American Smelter 99 101
American Sug. Rfg..... 113'2 113
American Tel. A Tel 126 127
Atchison 103 104
Baldwin Loco. 11054 11'2
Baltimore & Ohio . .' 88 89 '2
Bethlehem Steel . .' 450 bid 4732
Calif. Petroleum ....... 30 32
Canadian Pacific 169 171
C M & St P (St Paul) 96 98',
Colo. Fuel & Iron....... 44 45
Crucible Steel . . . . 84 80'4
Erie Common . . . . , 37 38
General Electric ...... . 171 171
General Motors . . . . .450!4 bid 450 bid
Great Northern Pfd 121 122
Intern. Ha rv, N. Ji 110'2 110
New York Central j 105 106'2
Pennsylvania . 55 57
Southern Pacific ..; 99'2 100
Studebaker 149 151
Tennessee Copper ..... 55'2 57'2
Union Pacific 132 134
U. S. Steel ............ 82 84
U. S. Steel Pfd.. 116 116'B
Western Union ...... 88 88
Westing9house Eleeric 65 674
SUGAR JUMPS
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal.. Veb. 4
Sugar: 96 degrees test, 4.83 cents
Previous quotation, 4.70 cents. ,
f Associated Press by Federal Wireless '
WASHINGTON. I). C, Feb. 4 The
National Park bill has been reported
on favorably by the committee hav
ing it for consideration, but carries
no appropriation with it. Ouly pub
lic lands will be set aside, these be
ing on Haleakala, Mauna Ixa and Ki
lauea. I am sending a copy of the
bill.
Governor Pinkham received the
foregoing cable message this morning
from Delegate J. K. Kalanianaole.
Commenting on the message. Super
intendent Charles R, Rorbes. recently
returned from Washington, says that
it is no surprise to him. In the Star
Bulletin last Tuesday the superinten
dent was quoted as saying that the
bill" probably will pass if the appro1
priation is not included.
PUBLIC LANDS
BUT NO MONEY
FOR Bili PARKS
AUTHORITATIVE IN FORMATION
BERLIN WON'T ADMIT SINKING
OF BIG WARD SHIP ILLEGAL
Limit of Concessions Appears to Have
Been Reached-President Informed
of Situation While On Spe
cial Train
Associated Press Service by Federal Wireless
WASHINGTON, I). (, Feb. 4. Count J. H. Von Horns
tortT, tin German jiinhassador, today received Germany V
answer on the Lusitania controversy, which lie took into aj
conference with Secretary of State Lansing. The conference,
lasted five minutes.
BERLIN', Germany, Feb. 4. Information reaching the Associated
Press from authoritative sources here indicates that under no circum- .
stances will Germany admit that the sinking of the Cuuard liner Lusi
tania by a German submarine last May was illegal.
The latest instructions forwarded to Ambassador von Bcrnstorff,
according to the information received by the Associated Press, con
tain simply one phase of a new fomentation of the proposed German
note of regret. The suggested sentence of this new draft consists of
only eight words, and does not contain the word "illegal." ' ;
This new draft of the German note of regret represents the limit
of Germany's" concessions hi the Lusitania case. Because of the de
mands made by the American notes, which insist that (Germany shall
admit the sinking of the liner was illegal, the situation is viewed here
as one of the most serious crises of the war. It is impossible to fore- !
see the outcome. The result appears to hinge oh the word "illegal'
and what the United States will do to carry out its insistence that the :
German reparation recognize the violation of international law.
v ' The Associated Press is also informed positively and authorita
tively that Germany cannot ami will not designate as "illegal" the sink
ing of a liner by any submarine, j ' . ,
f Herr Alfred. Zimmerman, under secretary for foreign affair I;i
the German cabinet. has granted an interview to the Associated Prcis
correspondent in which he says: ,
"Germany is willing to do everything in its power to meet Ameri
can wishes, but lhere are limits beyond which even friendship snap.
You must not push your demands too far nor attempt to humiliate Ger
many,"; : ';
He asserted that if America drives the matter to a breach, with
all its lamentable consequences, they must come. V
WASHINGTON', .D. C, Feb. 4. President Wilson today was
handed the news of the latest developments in tne Lusitania case, while
he was on his special train en route to Washington, closing Im speech
making tour on behalf of national defense. The president did not com
ment upon the news but members
as unfavorable.
British Demand Return of the Appam
WASHINGTON, D. G, Feb. 4. The British ambassador, Sir
Cecil Spring-Rice, today presented at the state department a formal de
mand for the return of the British liner Appam to the British owners.
A new diplomatic controversy is foreshadowed, as the United States
has practically decided that the steamer belongs to Germany as a prize
of war, having been captured by a German naval vessel and brought
across the Atlantic with a German prize crew aboard.
AtrianAinnenlomWdDorazzo
The following cablegram from official German sources was re
ceived today:
"The Austro-Hungarian admiralty reports that Durazzo. Albania,
was attacked by five Austrian aeroplanes on January 25, by two on
January 27 and by three on February 1, the tents of the camp near the
city being especially bombarded with destructive effect. All of the aero
planes returned safely in spite of heavy fire from land batteries and
warships.
"On February 2 Valona was shelled by three aeroplanes, one, of
which was hit twice in the motor and forced down to the sea, The
commander of the squadron Xaval Lieutenant Konyovic, went down'
to the ocean to the assistance of the disabled plane. ' Although the sea
was rough on account of a storm, he succeeded in taking over both -officers
from the damaged aeroplane, although batteries from Saseno opened
a violent fire and although two destroyers approached at full speed
The aeroplane rose with the two rescued officers and, returned safe afte
220 kilometers travel over the gulf of Cattaro.' '
West Front Fighting Inconclusive
BERLIN", Germany, Feb. 4. There is continued and increasing
activity of the Allies' artillery forces on the Franco-Belgian front, it
is officially reported. An explosion of a British mine destroyed a crater
which the Germans were occupying near Hulluch. ,
Inconclusive hand-grenade fighting is proceeding on the nearby
front. . '
Artillery
Fighting
PARIS, France, Feb. 4. Artillery duels are in progress today
along many parts of the western front, notably near Draunkopf, in the
valley of the Fecht, and near Altmatt. i
Additional Telegraph Despatches on Page 9 ; : V
YUAN STOPS TELEGRAPH
SERVICE TO KIANG SI
(Special Cable to Liberty News)
SHANGHAI, Feb. 4. The Kiang Si
and Shanghai telegraph line has been
of his party regarded the situation
3T-
On West Front
discontinued by i'uan Shih-Kai offi
cials. It Is thought that the move
was made to keep news of the success
of the Republican troops from . the
people of this city. It Is known that
Yuan Shih-Kai has recalled his sizUx
division from the province of KJans
SI. , - -. .
