m&tti
si tin
What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
VOLUME XXII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1910.
NUMBER 50.
Wadsworth Heads
Chamber Commerce
Maui To Have Princess In Carnival.
Support For Promotion Urged.
Chamber Will Advertise Maui's
Charms.
The Maul Chamber of Commerce,
at its meeting on Thursday afternoon,
elected new officers for the yenr as
follows: It. A. Wadsworth, president;
H. W. Rice, vice president; D. II.
Case, Secretary; C. D. Lufkin, Trea
surer; Trustees II. A. Baldwin,
George Freeland, George Cooper, Dr.
W. D. Baldwin, D. C. Lindsay, II. B.
Penhallow, L. Weinzheimer, T.
Robinson, J. J. Walsh, L. von Temp
sky, W. O. Aiken, and F. F. Baldwin.
In urging that he be not re-elected
president, F. F. Baldwin, the retiring
head of the organization stated that
he believed it to be for the best in
terests of the body that a change be
made. He had the interests of. the
organization very much at heart, lie
stated, but did not believe it good po
licy for one man to hold the chair too
continuously. Strong efforts were
made by a number of members, includ
ing R. A. Wadsworth, L. von Temp
sky, and C. D. Lufkin, to force the
re-election of Mr. Baldwin, but a
nominating committee was finally
named, consisting of W. H. Rice, W.
O. Aiken and J. B. Thomson, and
their report resulted in the election
of Mr. Wadsworth for president, and
the other officers as named above.
No Haleakala Road Survey.
A letter from Governor Pinkham to
the rublic Works department, in con
nection with the request of the cham
ber that the territorial department
make a survey of the proposed road
to the summit of Haleakala, puts a
very decided veto on the project in
so far as the territory is concerned.
He declared that the survey would cost
a lot of money, which the territory
does not have, and he further In
dicated that ho is not much in sym
pathy with the plan anyway.
Urge Aid For Promotion.
The chamber also passed a motion
Instructing the secretary to notify the
board of supervisors that the cham
ber is first, last, and always in favor
of contributions by Maui to promotion
work in as great an amount as the
county can afford, but not less than
?50 per month.
Princess For Floral Parade.
At the suggestion of F. F. Baldwin
the chamber decided to supply a
"princess" for the coming carnival in
Honolulu, and a committee consisting
of Mr. Baldwin, H. W. Rice, and An
gus McPhee was appointed to hantlle
the matter. The sum of $150 was
authorized to be spent.
To Repair Rest House.
The Haleakala rest house commit
tee was authorized to take steps look
ing to the waterproofing of the con
crete walls of the new rest house,
which fail to keep out the rain dur
ing driving storms, and also towards
re-roofing the stable which was dam
age in the recent kona gales.
Booster Letterhead.
At the suggestion of D. C. Lind
say, it was decided to have a
special letterhead prepared, designed
to be an advertisement of Maui s at
tractions, which should be used for
a period of from one to two weeks by
members of the chamber, for all cor
respondence outside of the Islands. A
committee consisting of Mr. Lindsay,
W. O. Aiken and Will J. Cooper was
appointed to have such a letterhead
prepared.
DEAD BODIES REPORTED FOUND
Word reached Wailuku this week,
that a Japanese foreman of the J. F,
Brown ranch, on Molokai, while fish
ing at the Halawa end of the island,
on January 23, had discovered two
dead bodies floating in the surf. He
reported the matter several days
later, but no effort seems to have been
made to verify his story. Judge Con-
radt, who wrote about the matter,
was of the opinion that the bodies
were those of persons drowned in the
Iao Valley flood, and carried out to
sea.
CHORAL CLUB ORGANIZED.
On Tuesday evening at the Com
munity House the Maui Choral Club
formally adopted a Constitution and
elected oflicers.
The following were elected to serve
for the ensuing year:
President, H. D. Sloggett : Secretary
and treasurer, Mrs. A. C. Bowdish
librarian. Mrs. Murdoch; Muiscal di
rector, Harry Washburn Baldwin, the
executive committee consists of the
president, director, Mrs. H. A. Bald
win, D. C. Lindsay, Mrs. W. S. Nielli
There were about thirty-five present
ana they all became charter members
The Club is at present rehearsing
"Queen Esther," which is to be given
within a few weeks:
Another Vaudeville Company now
playing at The National Theater. 1
Ha-
noiulu, will soon be here, announc
ment of which will be made lad
These vaudevilles are direct from t
lic
Great Fuller -Circuit of Australia
which includes about forty theaters
in me Anupoacs.
Maui Now to Have
One Full Regiment
hree New Companies For Lahaina,
Two For Wailuku, One For Puu
nenc. Good Band Now Assured.
Inspection Pleases.
Maui is soon to have a complete re
giment of the national guard of her
own. When the Third Regiment was
erently organized, two battalions
were given to Maui, and the third to
Kauai This was not satisfactory, es
pecially to Kauai, since the regimental
headquarters was located on Maui.
Following the annual inspection of the
guard on both islands, authority was
granted to recruit a full regiment on
each island. The Kauai regiment will
be known as the Fourth Regiment, the
Third remaining as the Maul designa
tion.
Six more regiments are according
ly being recruited on this island.
Three of these are in the Lahaina dis
trict, two more are to be formed in
Wailuku district, and one at Puunene.
There will possibly bo one in Maka
wao. In any event there will soon. Be
12 full companies. Officers have al-
panies, and their names will probably
panis, and their names will probably
be announced from headquarters with
in a few days.
Besides the new companies, a hospi
tal corps of 12 men has been formed
to be in command of Dr. Osmers or
Dr. Durney; a machine gun corps, in
command of Quarter Master II. W.
Rice; and a regimental band of 28
pieces, with C. D. Lufkin as chief
musician. The band was organized
last Sunday, and has as its nucleus
the former county band which for six
months or more has been struggling
for existence, tls future now seems
assured, since It will be fully equipped
with instruments and uniforms by the
war department.
Field Day On 26th.
The Third Regiment will hold a
field, day meet in Wrailuku on Satur
day, February 2G, at which all kinds
of military sports will be the c'f-f
feature. The arrangements for this
event are in the hands of a eommiJPi-e
consisting of Lt. W. S. Chillingworth,
Capt. A. W. Collins, Capt. Frank Luf
kin, Capt. Kaae, Lt. Robinson, Lt. "W,
A. Baldwin, and Lt. MacKenzie.
Largest Regiment in U. S.
As a result of the annual inspection
concluded on Monday by Capt. C. S
Lincoln, U. S. A., and Gen. Samuel I
Johnson, it was found that the Third
Regiment of the Hawaii national
guard is the largest regiment of or
ganlzed militia in the United States
It consist of 1355 men. Most of the
mainland regiments have from 500 to
700 men. Of the Maui contingent, 6G3
men attended inspection last Sunday.
On Kauai, 692 were registered at pre
sent. 186 men absent were for most
part prevented from attending by
storm damage to roads and other
damage caused by the storm.
- w
Tidal Wave Rumors
Cause Some Alarm
Prophesies of the coming of a big
tidal wave on the windward coast of
Maui, have been causing considerable
alarm among certain classes of resi
dents on the lower levels. Two we.ks
ago the report went the rounds in
Kaliului, and some persons temporari
ly moved to higher ground. This week
another similar prediction is current
The report reached liana district,
where it is said to caused a veritable
panic among the natives. According
to the liana rurror, a wave 60 feet
high was due to inundate the coast on
Wednesday, and there was a general
taking to the hills.
But the danger isn't over yet, ac
cording to a certain female kahuna
who states that the pilikin will come
tomorrow (Saturday) and that Kaliu
lui is to be wiped off the map of Maul.
January Rainfall In
Wailuku Breaks Record
It rained more in Wailuku
during the one month of Jan
uary, just past, than in the full
12 months ending December 31,
1915. In fact the January pre
cipitation, as shown by the
weather bureau records, kept by
Bi ol her Frank, lacked less than
5 Indies of equaling Inn normal
yearly rainfa'.l cf the district.
The record for the four weeks
ending January 20, is 23.97 in
ches. The total for the four
months ending December 31,
was 15.19, and this was above
the normal for the same period,
which is but 9.65. The total pre-
cipitatiou for the year 1915 was'
22.91 Inches, while the normal
annual rainfall is 28.84 inches.
a
Would Have Carnegie
Hero Medal For Welch
If the recommendations of the
Maui Chamber of Commerce
carry weight, Joseph F. Welch,
of Wailuku, is likely to soon be
honored with the poss.-ssion of
a Carnegie medal for hero sm
Welch probably Mved the rs
of a dozen or nrre persona d:r
iiM tiie flood tn Iao ft ream, on
the morning of January 18, at
great personal danger to him
self. With a rope tied to his
waist he entered the raging tor
rent time after time, and each
time was hauled back with one
or more of the flood-trapped
persons in his anus. Several
of these were floundering in the
water and would almost certain
ly have drowned but for his
bravery.
The matter was brought to
the attention of the Chamber at
its meeting yesterday by Rev.
R. B. Dodge, and a committee
consisting of E. R. Bevins, An
gus McPhee, and C. D. Lufkin
was appointed to ascertain the
full facts of the matter. The
committee will also consider the
work of Charles Rose, who re
scued a Chinese from a tree, In
much the same manner that
Welch did, and of others who
may possibly be deserving of re
cognition for their heroism on
the same occasion.
Howell Company Gets
Kuiaha Road Work
Loan Fund Commission Explodes
Over Olinda Reservoir Delay
Will Hear Local Experts This Eve
ning On Subject.
Following the opening of tenders
for the macadamizing of the road
from the Haiku cannery across the
Kuiaha homestead tract, last Friday
evening, the loan fund commission
awarded the contract to the Hugh
Howell Engineering Company, at its
bid of $17,450, time 120 days. The only
other bid was that of J. C. Foss, Jr.,
which was $18,910.75, time 140 days.
Public Works Roasted.
Because of the delays accasioned in
getting action on the construction of
the Olinda reservoir, for which the
board of public works is held to lie
responsible, there was a warm hour or
two when this topic rame up. As a
result the secretary was instructed to
call on the department to return all
the plans and speciflications at onee,
and an invitation was issued to the
various engineers and men of techni
cal experience in such work, to at
tend a meeting of the commission, to
be held this evening. The idea is to
get the opinions of these experts on
the problems in the way of the re
servoir, and then to go ahead.
Waterworks Tenders Recalled.
Because of the changes in the Iao
stream, caused by the recent flood, the
loan fund engineer's recommendation
that tenders now being advertised for
the improvement of the Wailuku
waterworks, be recalled, was adopted.
New plans will have to he made.
Local Manager For
Lahaina Bank Chosen
F. N. Lufkin, a brother of C. D.
Lufkin, is to have charge of the La
haina National Bank upon his arrival
here the latter part of this month. He
will succeed V. C. Schoenberg, who re
signed to become circuit clerk. Mr.
Lufkin for a number of years past
has been in charge of the United
Fruit Company's business in Ouata
niala, which position he is leaving to
come to Maui. He is expected to ar
rive on the next trip of the Great
Northern, duo in Honolulu on the 21st
Inst. It will be his first visit to the
Islands.
DEATH OF A CHILD.
Thelma, one of the little daughters
of Mr. and Mrs. George W. Wilbur, of
Wailuku, died early this morning
from bronchitis, following an attack
of measles. The funeral took place
this afternoon, interment being in the
Wailuku cemetery. The child for a
number ol years past had been an in
valid. She was 8 Ms years old.
DR. DEAN TO ADDRESS HAIKU
FARMERS.
Dr. Arthur L. Dean, President of the
College of Hawaii, will arrive in
Maui lomorrow morning, and will de
liver an address before the Haiku
Farmers' Association, at the Kuiaha
school house tomorrow evening. His
topic will be 'Soil Fertility," and is
the samo address made before the
meeting of the Sugar planters asso
ciation recently. Dr. Dean will be ac
companied by his wife.
Molokai Roads Hard
Hit ByBig Storm
Kula District Again Passable
Waterworks Badly Damaged But
Once More In Service.
The storm damage to county roads
Is rapidly bein repaired, though
County Engineer Cox states that the
work of ihe county has been set back
at least a month. The lower Kula
road was opened for automobile traf
fic this week, though there is still
much to be done. Repairs to the La
haina road are also progressing.
Molokai was hard hit by the storm,
and for a week or mote even horse
back travel was impossible in many
sections, on account of washouts nd
fallen trees. It will be some time
yet before all of the roads can be
open to vehicle travel. Fortunately
few bridges on Molokai were carried
out, though many new gulches have
been" cut by rushing torrents taking
new courses.
Makawao Waterworks Repaired.
The Kula pipeline of the Makawao
waterworks system was repaired this
week in numerous places. The storm
broke the line in half a dozen places,
and in several instances carried away
several hundred feet of pipe. The
wooden stave pipe was broken in one
place. The district was without water
for a little over a week, but the
system is now in about the same con
dition as it was before the storm hit
it.
Lyons Steps Out As
Deputy Tax Assessor
T. B. Lyons, deputy tax assessor in
the Wailuku office for the past year or
more .tendered his resignation to As
sessor J. II. Kunewa, and the same
took effect the first of the month. On
the same date, George H. Cummings,
for the past 9 years a deputy in the
County auditor's office, took charge
of the vacant position in the tax of
fice. No reason for the change has
been given out.
It is understood that Cummings'
place in the auditor's office is to be
filled permanently by J. N. K. Keola,
who has been temporarily enagged in
that department in connection with
the investigation of the tangle in the
circuit court accounts. It is also pos
sible that Lyons will get Keola s old
job as clerk in the county engineer's
office.
-fr
Miss Ellen Copp to Be
Maui's Parade Princess
, . 8
unies3 tne scnooi department
refuses to release her for the
occasion, Miss Ellen Copp, a
teacher In the Keokea school,
will ride in the big carnival
parade in Honolulu, on Wash
ington's Birthday, as Maui's
princess. This was decided up
on by the chamber of commerce
committee shortly after its ap
pointment yesterday afternoon.
H was also decided that the
Maui princess shall ride Angus
McPhee's horse Denervo.
The committee, which con
sists of F. F. Baldwin, Angus
McPhee, t,nd Harold Rlae.
placed the direct handling of
the princess matter in hands of
Mr. McPhee, who is already
busy arranging for costume and
other details. The selection of
Miss Copp is believed to be a
most happy one, as it is known
that she is a most acocmplishcd
and graceful rider. She is a
daughter of George Copp, of
Kula.
Death of a Pioneer
John Cook, whose death occurred at
the Fred Baldwin Memorial Home, at
Paia, on Sunday night, January 30,
was one of the oldest white residents
of the Islands. lie was 92 years of
age, having been born in Deptford,
England. June 11, 1824. He had been
in Hawaii for 71 years. He was
carpenter by trade, and Is survived 1y
two sons. John W. Cook, and Felix
Cook, who live in Honolulu. Before
coining to the Islands, Mr. Cook was
mixed up in some of the stirring
events of the years immediately fol
lowing the discovery of gold In Cal
fornia, and he was the owner of an old
Hag which he claimed to be the first
American flag ever raised in Califor
nia, by Fremont. The claim seems
to have been pretty well established.
The deceased at one time owned
considerable property on Kauai, but
lost It, and then lived in Honolulu
where he was engaged in contracting
and building until about three years
ago when he was admitted to the Fred
Baldwin Home.
PRESIDENT BELIEVES
NATIONJS WITH HIM
Much Enthusiasm On His Preparedness Tour.
Canadian Parliament Houss Burned.
Germans Makes Daring Capture
Of Liner Appam
OTTOWA. February 4. Flames believed to have been started by
an infernal machine destroyed house of parliament here last night. Two
women burned to death, atid also one member of house, and 4 fire fight
ers. Structure was blown up while members of commons were sitting.
Apparent damage already done said to be $5,000,000. Militia called
out saved many. Many, however arc believed to have been crushed
under walls. Wife of speaker of house trapped by gas fumes, threw
children onto life net and followed herself. Escaped without injury.
Minister Martin, of agriculture was severely injured and may die.
Members of cabinet officials grope
ABOARD PRESIDENTIAL
ruary 4. President W ilson is sure people are with him. Is ready to de
mand special action by congress on preparedness program. Big crowd
cheers his address at St. Louis.
LONDON. February 4. Word
in Constantinople have acknowledged their campaign against Russians,
a failure. Russians administered a
BERLIN. February 4. Austrian submarine in Adriatic recaptured
North German Lloyd steamer Koenig Albert, flying the Italian flag.
BERLIN. February 4. Word
lish conditions are worse than Belgian. Famine and disease are ramp
ant and sweeping away thousands.
LONDON, February 4. Former German steamer Franz Fischer,
sunk by German submarine.
BOSTON, February 4. British
& Maine Railroad 5 cents a piece for cast off ties to be used for trenches.
Understood British government is negotiating with a number of other
railroads for ties.
LITTLE ROCK, February 4. 11
of damage done to property by
TOKIO, February 4. 110
Daijin Waning and Rinon Maru
WASHINGTON. February 4.
defense, says Gen. Clarence Edwards, commander of troops in tlie
canal zone. ith 2300 trained men, the fortilications are incomplete.
The Pacific side could be invaded easily, he said.
LONDON, February 3. Military critics and observers writing
in the papers express the conviction that the Germans are planning a
great new offensive movement to cut through the Allies' lines to the
Channel ports. They say that the Germans are getting ready to launch
a heavy attack on a large scale against the left wing of the Allies. It
is expected that the Teutons will try to blast their way through Allies'
entrenchment at Callais and Dunkirk and with strong infantry forces
and enormous masses of artllery support the blasting operations.
BERLIN, February 3. There is now notable artillery activity on
the British-Belgian front, particularly in the vicinity of Neuville. The
Germans have occupied two English mine craters near Ilalluck.
DUBLIN, February 3. John Redmond, the Irish parliamentary
laeder, in a public adrress here today, issued a stirring appeal for more
recruits from Ireland.
PARIS, February 3. Yussof Issed, heir apparent to Turkish
throne, and nephew of the reigning, soverign, did not commit suicide,
LONDON. February 3. The British steamer, Belle of France last
reported at Kiratpachi, India, Dec. 24, has been sunk on its way to
England. A number of Europeans and 220 Lascars have been landed
and 19 Lascars are missing.
as had been reported, but was assassinated, declares Chcrif Tasha,
director of movement of opposition to Turkish government.
The Northcliffe newspapers continue their vigorous campaign for
better protection of English towns and countryside against Zeppelin
raids. The Daily Mail declares that it is useless to consider aeroplanes
in terms of tens or twenties, but must have them by the thousands.
BERLIN, February 3. F. C. Watcrcup, representative of the
Rockefeller Foundation, and Caspar Whitney, noted American author
and editor, who is a member of the Belgian relief committee, have re
turned from a fortnights trip where they studied conditions. They re
port that conditions are even worse than have been portrayed. Famine
and deadly diseases are rampant, and amidst the deadly Russian winter,
poor people are without food.
HONOLULU, February 3. Miss Verona Dussing. of San Fran
csco and Arnold Aldrich, of Honolulu, were married in California.
War raises prices on local pharmisies. Rubber goods can't be sold
to Germany, Great Britain warns American dealers, and shut off supply
of crude from foe. Price of several vitally imiortant drugs now 10
times price before war.
C. R. Forbes warns Ad Club, and says Washington is growing tired
or "knocking" heard from Hawaii. Unless people get together, the
system of government here may be changed. Tattle to national capital
about public officials disgusts administration.
LONDON, February 3. Lens was captured from Germans in last
French attack. Fall of city breaks Teuton line and opens way toward
Lille base.
BERLIN, February 3. Official denials made yesterday that raid
of Zeppelins was matter of reprisal. Object of attack was munition
industry of Britain.
LONDON, February 3. Yesterday a Zeppelin was sighted off
coast of Amelund.
LISBON, February 3. Lisbon is scene of rioting. Increase "in
food prices is cause of the disorder.
LONDON. February 3. Richmond Taylor, who was detained
here for failing to register as an alien enemy, is said to have confessed
to British authorities that von Tappen was personally the organizer of
the plot to blow up the Welland Canal.
KANSAS CITY, February 3. People cheer earnest plea of Pre
sident for defense. Thousands applaud as he urges army and navy
preparedness to protect American lives and trade. At close of meeting
the crowd sings "America."
WASHINGTON, February 3. Appam passengers are turned
loose by state department. Captain and crew of captured liner await
decision as to their status. Officials are uncertain as to whether ves
sel is a Teuton war craft or a prize.
(Continued on Tage Five.)
through dense fumes to salcty.
TRAIN, INDIANAPOLIS, Feb
comes through Germany that Turks
serious defeat to von dcr Goltz.
comes from investigators that Po
government offered to pay Boston
lives taken and thousands of dollars
flood sweeping through state.
persons drowned last night when the
collided in Hongkong harbor.
Panama canal needs strong land
