ir-s,'"-. -
FINANCIAL EDITION
itty?t
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
i&W'A- Jr
' IIkSt "iJ? vSaf!
fVOL. II.-NO.123
lEVEN NOW REPORT!
IN ATLANTIC CI
PUILADJGLPIIIA, JTUIDAY, ITEBllUAltY 4, 1010.
Corrjionr, 1D1U, sr tub Punuu t room Codri.tr.
PJLtlOE ONJS OJSN'S
TPY
SCENES AT ATLANTIC CITY FIRE, WHERE SEVEN PERSONS LOST LIVES
jljU UJkj JL
lTIHlHPP
FIRE
QUICK NEWS
4&- - ..Mwi. v - -w&mMMm.
GERMAN EMBASSY GETS LUSITANIA ORDERS
WASHINGTON Feb. p. The Gennnn itaibassy thin nftcrnocn
iccclvcd from Berlin the Oct man Foreign Office's memorandum of
Instructions legnrdlng the course to bo innmicil in llic' matter of tlto
XiUaltnnin. The note is being deciphered. It is expected that it will
bo transmitted to the State Department Into this afternoon.
TURKS EVACUATE ER2ERUM
I'jCTIIOGKAD, Feb. -l. Kepoito nro current Uero that Erzcrum
lias been ovceuntctl by the Ttirho. No cfflolttl confirmation 13 obtain-able.
AUSTRIAN SQUADRON BOMBARDS ITALIAN TOWNS
KOM12, Fob. 4. An Austrian naval squadron consisting of four torpedo
boats and a cruiser bombarded the Italian town of San Vltohcnono and th
railway station at Ortona, yesterday morning. Slight damage wna caused,
according t an official statement Issued hero today. Italian batteries on lond
replied vigorously to tlio Austrian ships and forced them to retire.
ENVER INTRENCHES HIMSELF IN POWER
ZURICH, Feb. 4. ldnver Pasha, Turkish dictator, has taken scvcrul stops
to strengthen his power nnd that of the Turkish Sultan, according to ndvlcca
from Constantinople today, Ilucincd Thevret Hey, father of Knvcr, has been
nominated Prefect of Constantinople. Knvcr has obtained parliamentary np-,
proval of a bill increasing the powers of the Sultan In the event of the dis
solution of the Turkish Parliament. Both Chambers of Parliament nro expected
to be dissolved within a few days.
Overbrook Hostelry Leveled in Early
Morning Blaze as Unclad Victims
; Scream for Help, Cut Off From Lone
Fire Escape at Rear of Structure
I
.
?.
m
Miv and Mrs. Alexander Andrew, Aged Phila-
delphians, Injured in Leap to Life-Nets C.
P. W. Schmidt Hero in Rescue Work Young
:Haveriordl Man Probably Burned to Death m
His Room Two Women Among the Killed,
One the Aged Mother of Proprietor Mott
ft
ATLANTIC CITY, Feb. 4. Seven persons are reported to htive lost their
lira in the fire which destroyed the Hotel Overbrook between ! and 5
Vclock this morning.
ThVee bodies have been recovered and four other persons, who for hours
ere listed as missinp, in the hope that they might bo found, have been
pven up as dead in the ruins.
The list of absolutely known dead includes Thomas Mott, father of the
lOverbrook proprietor; Mrs. A. Johnson and an unidentified man.
1 , Tho missing are: Paul C. Henricks, Edward Philipscn, Miss Anna
Dougherty and Mrs. Martha B. Mott, wife of Thomas Mott.
The Misses M. L. and M. C. Murphy, of Roland Park, Baltimore, Md., at
iirst reported among the missing, have been found with friends. They were
not injured.
The property loss is "about $200,000.
. Upward of thirty guests, called from their beds to find stairs gone and
hallways filled with suffocating smoke, battled desperately to reach windows,
.wnere they stood outlined against a crimson background, begging for help
ithat came slowly.
That the death list was not much larger was due to the work of Miss
Katherine Stokes, 22 years old, operator for the Bell Telephone Company,
Who saw the fire from her office across the street from the Overbrook Hotel.
She immediately sent in the alarm. At that time almost the entire first floor
Of the nrtfol ttmo In ln.n
p -- ..w na til IIUIUIB.
K Richard Mott, proprietor of the hotel, is at tho Hotel Traymore, of which
hU brother, Joseph Mott, is proprietor, with a broken leg suffered in jumping
gom a window after he had worked valiantly to get wildly excited men and
Kfromen to safety by means of ladders and stairways unknown to them.
Dr. Richard Bew, Coroner in Atlantic City, nnd Doctor Leonard, acting
coynty physician, already have started an investigation of the fire. "We have
j idea yet as to the cause of the fire," said Doctor Bew, "and it is too early
gjay whether any blamo attaches. We shall instantly look into the matter
jjf fire-escapes and determine whether these were adequate. We shall leave
Nothing undone and will carry this inquiry to the very bottom. I do not
gow whether there are any more bodies in the ruins."
mong the victims of the early morning
jjnedy are;
S& The Dead:
IH0aA8 MOTT. W) years old. father of Illch
p Nott. proprietor of the Overbrook, body
tii City Iiojpitarmorgue. '
S5& THOMAS MOTT. Ma wife. whoae re
RgtiMjre believed to be atlU In the rulni.
jm3' JOHNSON, m, employe of the Malnon
ijkf8"". a boardwalk establishment.
fftge.NTlPIKD MAN, who burned before the
lliv """uo'Kta of frenzied spectators, who
H" Wwded ntth htm to lump.
f- Hendricks, of ChambeHburir, Pa..
KJ"lly gent for jioUj Traymore, graduate
l'Uvertord and about SI )un of age.
Ije0110" believed to be (a ruins.
m. The Injured;
KiYrail ?" Philadelphia; concussion of
jkj pram in jumping
'trtrlSi'fr5ANL)EU ANDREW, bis wife.
iJiSUW flom shock and In sarlaus condition
THE WEATHER
& ' I IMS ' -
5.J.V9SlJ?-CTai. I ff.
S jk
wmmsmmm mKm. :-..,M;
;iscK',;v'r.tj'-x.jwff'jca. jmur jtfrai
M
...3
f 4 . & ' -
I
REDiMOND APPEALS TO IRISH "SLACKERS"
DUULIN, Feb. A. John Redmond lius issued u stlrrlnR appeal for recruits
from Ireland. He says: "Recent events have made it absolutely essential that
Irelr nd, for her own sake, to Kimrd her own highest Interests and to maintain
her honor, should make it plain to the whole world that she is willing and
enner to fulfil her obligations. Thero has been slackness In recruiting in tho
agriculture districts, but winning the wur Is of the greatest Importance to
Irish agriculturists, for if the Allies arc defeated there Is danger of every Irish
tenant being robbed of his land by the Prussians."
I'hotos by Harper II. Smith.
In the circle on the left is the Hotel Overbrook as it appeared before its destruction. The opposite picture
shows the falling of the roof, threatening the frame dwelling adjoining. Below is shown the sole remain
ing wall on the Mt, Vernon avenue side.
RICHMOND OFFICIALLY
SUSPENDED BY BISHOP,
BUT DEFIES REMOVAL
Says Squad of Soldiery Will Be
Necessary to Keep Him
From Pulpit Next
Sunday '
HUFF SENT TO CHURCH
FORECAST
W Philadelphia and vioirthy
E Gild COntiillffl fnlft t.i.J i..'!.
about SO degree; Saturday in-
i-i9 uvuuweaa une. somtwnai
W; moderate wet and south-
inqua.
QKOItCU; BBNCKKR. SUM Chow .street. CJer,
mantowu, an architect: Injured foot and
shock.
JOHN McCOY. Ill Palisade avenue, West
Hoboken. N. J.; shock and lacerations.
CHARI.KS P. W. SCHMIDT, 3182 Washing
ton avenue, Philadelphia; shock, cuts and
bruises, left hospital,
K.Utl. CltAMEH, a fireman, lacerated scalp,
not serious.
Nicholas DeRay, the hotel engineer, ap
peared at tho lire scene this morning. He
was at first reported killed In a leap from
the fourth floor.
Mott died of shock In the City Hospital
after firemen had tuken him from a win
dow on the fourth floor. He became sepa
rated from his aged wife and did not know
that slie fell back Into tho flames and per
ished before the firemen could reach her.
WOMAN BHOKE THROUGH NET,
Mrs. Johnson leaped into a life-net, but
went through and struck the hard pave
ment with terrific force. Nearly every
bone In her body was broken.
Hendricks, publicity agent for the Hotel
Traymore. who, like several other attaehea
of that hotel, made hie home at the Over
brook. was given up for dead at noon. Re
ports that he had played a herolo role as
a recuer of other were found to be faue.
Hwiilritlu' room was on the fourth floor
T i i, in'
Continued on Page Two, Cojiuau. Tturte
lilshop Rhlnelunilcr, of tho Diocese of
Pennsylvania, today formally suspended
the lov. Ueorgo Cliulmera Richmond,
rector of St. John's Episcopal Church, 3d
and Drown stiects, from tho ministry
for ouo )eur fiom tills date.
However, Mr. Richmond was not pres
ent to hear the buntenco read, an-' is a
result, the MUhnp sent him a fo.-mal
notice of suspension by mefchonger. The
militant clergyman refused to receive the
messenger, but did accept the Blbhop's
letter of suspension, and a short time
later IlUhop Rhlnelander received a
lengthy letter from Mr. Richmond betting
forth, In httngiug language, the reasons
why he did not appear to lucfT"tho pro
nouncement. '
Immediately after the sontenco was an
nounced new prospects of "war to tho
finish" at the old Colonial church next
Sunday developed. Bishop Rhlnolander's
secretary, when requested to ask tho
Bishop wjjat tho plans were for Sunday
and whether or not the Rev. Henri SI. O.
HulT would make an attempt to preach
In St. John's similar to the ono he made
last June when he was barred out and
given a lecture over the fence of the
churchyard by Sir. Richmond, said that
FLAMES SWEEP
OTTAWA HOUSE
OF PARLIAMENT
Five Dead and Score In
jured When Fire Destroys
Canadian Capitol
BOMB PLOT SUSPECTED
Continued on Vote Seven, Column Three
BURLINGTON BOY DIES IN FIUE
Five-year-old Perishes During Ab
sence of Mother
BURLINGTON. N. J., Feb. f. Curing
the absence of Sirs. Edward I.oUlne from
her home-on Ashton street this morning,
an overheated stoVe set tire to the wood
work In the kitchen, resulting In the
death of her llve-year-old son, Edward.
The child's body was found beside a win
dow. An infant was asleep on the second
floor, but the flrtwou aueeesded in put
tins out the fire before the tlamea reached
that part of the Uo.
OTTAWA. Feb. 4.
Klrc, believed by nam; Canadians to
have been set by a German agent, de
btroyed tho historic Canadian Parliament
building early today, causing the loss
of flvo lives, Injuring a scorn and entailing
a monetary loss estimated at 57,000,000.
Bcllof that the fire was set by an In
cendiary was strengthened this afternoon
by statements of two members of Parlia
ment to the police.
Alphonse Verville and 13 SI. SIcDonald,
two members, declared that they saw a
suspicious looking foreigner lurking about
tho reading- room just before the Are
broke out. So great were the suspicions
of Sir. McDonald that he called attention
of others to the stranger
In addition to two women and three
GERMANTOWN WOMAN
ENDS LIFE WHEN MAN
FAILS IN LOVE TRYST
Miss Grace Francis, Who Con
ducted Hat Shop in Chelten
Avenue, Found There
Dying
USE PULMOTOR IN VAIN
Continued on I"ob J'lve, Column Two
LE FORZE AUSTRIACHE
AVANZANOSUDURAZZO
Le Coste Italiane delFAdriatico
Attaccate da Una Squadri-
glia di Siluranti Nemiche
I.o colonhe austrlache die avamano da
Scutari verso 1'Albanla centrale e merldl
onale e die hanno per oblettho la base
navale italiana dl Valona, sono glunte,
come annuncla un comunicato utllclaie
pubbllcato oggf a Vienna, a Kruja, cfie
e' ad una veutina dl mlgUu. circa a noid
est di Durazzo. K' poosiblle che fra
uualche giorno gll auslrlacl pajwano ope
rare 11 collegamento con le forze bubjare
che avanzano pure verso Durazzo dalla
parte dl Klbassan e di cui per oran non
si ha nouzla,
(!Wgfi la pagioa le ultinie e piu'
(lettagllaVe aetlzie sul la guerra, In ital
ianoO ' "
SIlss Grace Francis, who conducted the
Francis Hat Shop, a feminine business ex
periment, at 63 West Chelten avenue, Ger
mantowu, and who was related to well-to-do
and boeially prominent Gennantown
families, was found unconscious In her
apartments back of her shop today, with
a gas tube In her mouth.
SIlss Francis was taken to the German
town Hospital, where a pulmotor was
used for an hour in an attempt to revivo
her. At tho end of the hour she was pro
nounced dead
SIlss Francis, who had always a strong
ly developed taste for millinery, and for
years had wanted to have a shop of her
own, where she could produce the kind
of artistic millinery creations she thought
should be worn, built up a good business
for herself In a short time, and her shop
was patronized by many women of
fashion.
Of late she seemed to be in financial
difficulties. She lived alone. Her friends
were at first at a loss to learn how the
turn in her affairs had happened. Then
they found that Sliss Francis had pinned
her faith to a Germantown man, that she
expected to marry him, and that she had
ITALY TO RAISE WAR FUNDS BY TAXATION
RO.MU Feb. 4. in a speech In Turin today, K. D.inco, Itullan Slinlster of
Finance, intimated that when the subscription lists have been completed for
the third national loan, now belli (r offered, Italy will cease issuing loans and
will rebort to Indlrert taxation to obtain further war funds. Danep said that
tho success of the present war loan is assured, as 2,000,000,000 llro ($400,000,000)
have already been subscribed. The new taxes are expected to Include a rato
of 4 cents for domestic letter postage, revenue stamps on documents of many
kinds nnd probably also taxation on land nnd a heavy progressive income tax.
RUSSIA ADMITS WAR LOSSES OF 3,000,000
LONDON, Feb. 4. The American Red Cross detachment, which has been
serving- for many months on the Russian front, Is on its jvuj: tjuthe United
States, hnving sailed from Bergen' yesterday for -New York on tho steamship
Hcrgensfjord, The Copenhagen correspondent of the !5chiinRO:Tcl2graplr 'Com
pany, who sends this information, says members of tho party described th
hospitals of Russia as admirable In work and equipment. The Russians them
selves, the dispatch says, calculate, their casualties thus far at 3.000,000 and say
1,000,000 German and Austrian prisoners havo been sent to -the interior of
Russia or Siberia.
DUMA TO BE CALLED FOR FEBRUARY 18
PKTROGRAD, Feb. 4. The Novoe Vremyn says it has learned from a re
liable source that tho Duma will bo convened for February 18. SI. Sturmcr, tb
successor of Jean Ij. Gorcmykln as Premier, has been n representative of tho
right wing In the financial debates In tho upper chamber and a prominent flguro
In matters relating to foreign affairs. Ho was a friend of tho late Slinlster xofi
Plehve and always has been prominent In bureaucratic affairs, being several
times discussed for the Slinistry of tho Interior.
RUSSIA COMPLETES NEW LINE TO WHITE SEA
PETROGRAD, Feb. 4. Tho short line railway from Petrograd to Soroka,
on tho AVhlto Sea, a distance of C30 miles, has just been completed, giving
another outlet to tho north besides that of Archangel, and thus tending to ro
havo tho congestion at tho latter port.
BRITISH ARE "HUSTLERS," SAYS LLOYD-GEORGE
LONDON, Feb. 4. David Lloyd George, Slinlster of Munitions, nddresslng
the workers In a new shell factory, congratulated them on tho manner in which
they had redeemed their pledge "to deliver the goods." "Wo used to think,"
said the Minister, "that none but Americans and Germans could run' up work
shops in no time, fill them with machines and turn out great shells. But nowt
wo are doing It ourselves."
AUSTRIANS RECAPTURE SEIZED LINER
HHRLIN, Feb. 4. -An Austro-Hungarlan Bubmarlno stopped the former -North
German Lloyd steamship Koenig Albert in tho Adriatic The steamship
had been captured by tho British at tho beginning of the war, and afterward
put at tho disposal of tho Italians. Tho steamship, which flew tho Italian flag,
carried 300 Serbian refugee Tho submarine, after stopping tho steamship,
called a destroyer, which towed tho prize to Boocho dl Cattaro, Albania.
Continued on I'uee Seven, Column Tho
NAVY 5000 MEN SHORT
Admiral Blue Tells House Committee
of Lack of Men
WASHINGTON. Feb. 4.-The enlisted
personnel of the navy, taking Into ac
count the ships which will be ready with
in the" next six months, is WOO men short.
Admiral -Blue, Chief of Navigation, so
informed the House Naval Affairs Com
mittee today.
Falls Dead on Way to Work
John Walters. 69 years old, 6131 Rein
hart street, fell dead today at 19th and
Commerce streets, while on his way to
work. He was employed by Laird &
Sehflbar, lS'th and Hamilton streets. Death
as due to heart dlee.
ACCUSED CONSUL ON WAY TO UNITED STATES
UOSIE, Feb. 4, Olney Arnold, of Rhode Island, American agent and Con
sul General at Cairo, Egypt, landed at Naples today from the United' States
cruiser Des Slolnes. Sir. Arnold said ho was on his way home to remain there
permanently. Ho was charged by American residents in the Egyptian capital
with unneutral utterances.
PRICES OF DYES QUADRUPLED IN GERMANY
LONDON, Feb. 4. A dispatch from Tho Haguo says: "The Nlewe Rotter
damsche Courant learns that German aniline dye manufacturers have Informed
their Dutch customers that tho prices of aniline dyes will be quadrupled; also
that they had fixed the Dutch rato of exchange at 60 guilders per 100 marks.
The Amsterdam official rate for sight exchange yesterday was 43.37U guilders,"
SANDERS HEADS TURKS IN CAUCASUS
LONDON, Feb. 4. A Bucharest report saya that Field Marshal Llraan von
Sanders has been appointed commander-in-chief of the Turkish forces at tha
Caucasian front. He was formerly commander of the First Turkish army and
was in charge of the forUflcatlon of Gallipoli.
PURCHASE OF CANAL URGED
Senator Saulsbury Says U, S. Should
Buy the Chesapeake and Delaware
WASHINGTON, Feb. 4. Senator Sauls
bury on the Senate floor this afternoon
urged the acquirement of the Delaware
and Chesapeake Canal, and Its deepening,
so the largest dreadnought might pass
through.
This project was even more essential for
preparedness than for commerce, he said,
as it would form a valuable barrier
against invasion of Wilmington, Phila
delphia and the munition-producing dis
trict of the njtlon.
30,000 Idle Through Gas Shortage
WHBEUNG. W. Va., Feb. i-About
30,000 persons are idle ift (his district b
cause of a shortage of gas.
Bucket Shops Raided in Ohio
COLUMBUS, O., Feb. 4. State Bank
Inspectors today raided 12 bucket shops iq
11 Ohio cities. State Bank Superintend,
ent Hall said the raid covered every
bucket shop in the State and announced
the proprietors would be prosecuted under
both the State blue sky and anti-bucket
shop laws.
XOS.T AND FOTTND
CERTIFICATE of Mambenlxlp Va. 123T ta ilia
CotzmcrcUl Exchange of PbUailelsMa. St
the nun of C U Call, havLojr Im Itai,
notice U hereby given that apjJiciftia k
been made tot a nev certificate '
CS. U. BHt
CASK-Lojrt. null black leather c&M. coattjg
in aim notion watca ran; UMcai rewaj.
S, Uttlat, AWStos. J'a-
Bi- allit ribbon
Auacsaa v
Othtf lot and JFouaJ- Ail
1
