That Country Home
Go to It via The T-D Want Ad
Page, For Sale or to Let
66th YEAR
yom mi; on
m iiiimt :???
RICHMOND, VA, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1916
To Buy or Sell
Remember the Easiest Way,T-D
Want Ads?Randolph One
FOURTEEN PAGES.
imi.i: ii
?FAIR
PRICE, 2 CENTS
RAILROADS OFFER
TO ERECF STATION
IN FAR 1ST END
Plans Drawn for $2,000,000
Structure on Hermitage
Golf Club Site.
CHAMBER DIRECTORS
PREFER BELT LINE
Vote 12 to 3 for Location at
Broad Street and the Rose
ncath Road.
Alil/ TRACKS OFF HltOADSTUFFT
Hyr<] SI re?M Station to lie Allan*
(loneil, INMcr??l>uru Trains Ijoinc
Into Main Street.
Plans for a $2,000,000 pnssenirer sta
tion for Richmond. to I**"* erected bv the
Richmond. FredorUksl>??! ?: and Potomac
and Atlantic Coast Railroads in
the \u : - i t n j.art of the city. will be
lai'i before a conference of railway
officials ami representative": of tho city
this tiM'TTilnp by Henry Walters, chair
man of the board of directors "f * 11
Atlantic < Vmft Line Railroad The
(Chamber of t'onunTie, at an executive
moot in" of th?. d i r<-i't or*-' yesterday af
tflrnooi', went on t iworO by a vote of
12 to r. a- indorsing ilx> erection of the
propos* '! statior at IIroad Street :iml
tlii.- |;r. . i r-nti R"ad. fri' i't; directly nn
the Relt . ? itlier than at the Her
milage i l ii. ?'.?f. as proposed by
the ra'.lr'?:?*'!.- locations. :t if
Mated. ,ii < mv ? i I'V ' rail" o.t.1 nir.i
panic- J .a ?? ? l:t-t night t?i< Retail
Merchant ?? ??. .<ti.-.nof llichxio d :n
'I ? h? i* '' * ..? ? b t' ? ? * l .iml or
lif t.'f.iMtlVM'
\s jt in: i?i:ri.?\i:s n> imsi t
t<i-ii.\ v* mi:f.ti\?.
Tli. g???a.t?"s t secrecy was maintained
by tli", r:> . Iro.xU' as to tlx naturf of
the I'Otif* i"11for to-flay Presi
dent William H. White of the Rlch
luoi '1 I**rederi?-'r*.|? ?;rg an 1 Potomac
Hall' oad, cU-flii.;in' '?> Interviewed
or ??? *:iit tl.<> :?s kr.'-w of a
iv,? ???tli g. ' "1. t irt?,:? ii PulW r of t he
.1 ?*r>i;.i: .t?.<?. i,:i Street*; City At -
totnev Pollard. Rus rit's*1 Munnucr ?
T l>abn>v a'I president William I*.
Hi.od. of tli- u>t?. :* ?,f I'otnsiicri i-.
and others hitYf b? on invited to he
pri- i nt. h'iwpvi;r. i" meet Mr. Walters,
who cinnir:C from N< w YorJ< for th<*
pun-"-, . mill ?? ?imb.-rstood thai sev
eral of th> inlroad presidents who
are dire to*- :n tK?? Richmond, Fred
ori'-Usliiiri: ai,?l Potomac will also be
pres-nt it the* conference. when the
question of site- lt> to bo thoroughly
d i S?*US -?1.
According to Mr. I>abney, tho plans
fot tl ? station arc already drawn, and
the mattci of s'Kvtlmr a Kite is the
only obstacle that staixl : til the way
of tv.? . :,-1? tlot i': tlx tx".v -tatton by
1 tlie two railroa<lr
With t !? ?* ? peniiiK of the larno t>as
fiOnBer dt.-pot, Tt.vrd Street Station will
b? abandoned as a paspenwer station,
and will i > u.*:' d as an ex< ess frei(.-ht.
station The n? w paKsonger station,
which ? II l-i' ????> "f tl1" handsomest
stt i:- ttired> \ oteii t-> r/tilroad purposes
In t> ?? South, will i,? on tlx main iiix
of t!x' train* that now pas.- over tin
He!; !,ine tracks on their way from
New Orleans. Atlanta. Florida and
other Southern points.
ItKMOVK C.MI \ STATION
MIIITII OF ItltOAI) STItKKT
Not <??:;!> the elimination of the Hyr-i
.Street Station, b it the iea<ljustment of
the route- of almost nil tlx* trains that
com- and leave Hieliiiiond. would re
sult when the new station is built.
All through trains will stop at the bifcf
station on West Hroatl Street. All
looal trains of tlio Coast J-ln? and
i Norfolk and Western Hallway will ko
into the Main Street Station.
1211<a Station would be removed from
its present location and the iraeks ?>n
liel vide: e and Uroad Streets will be
I a ken tl'1- A small station, replaeini^
P.lba. will be built on the north side
of ltroad St re t_ near Harrison, to t-ike
care of tiie. local truflle of the Hich
niotni. Frederleksbui i; and I otomae
llallroad.
A special meeting; of the hoard of
directors of the Ohambei of t'ominerce
was called yesterday afternoon at 4
o'clock, t>.-t' t.sibly to hear ;i debate be
tween City Attorney II. S. Pollard and
12ppa Huntoti, .lr, attorney for the
Richmond, Fredericksburg and Poto
mac. concerning the policy of tho city
of Hlchmond and the policy of tho rail
road company, respectively, in the mat
ter of extending .Monument Avenue and
other thoroughfares In the West End
over the P?ell I.itie tracks and. above
all, which is to bear the cost.
NO M'.\N FACTS IIIK
uitoi <;irr to m<;itt
For more than three hours the. two
attorneys presented their cases befove
the chamber directors In the hope thaK
thov would KO on record as favoring
a definite policy. Hut no such policy
was voted ?>n. The arguments pre
sented by both Mr. Pollard and Mr.
Hunion liavo been threshed out in the
Council Committee on Streets and in the
public press, and little that was new
in regard to the stand taken by both
sides was presented.
Mr Pollard sketched the stand taken
by the city. The city, he said, in his
opinion, would not have to pay a cent
for tho iVfPOsed depressing of the
tracks as tho city would insist on Its
rights and the railroad company would
bo compelled to depress Its tracks. In
order to conform to the street grades
as established l>y the Administrative
Hoard Condemnation proceedings would
ho instituted, the street extended, and
i}U the cost must he borne by the rail
r?Mr llunton reiterated tho stand taken
t>y the railroadju the last meeting ofj
* (Continued on Ninth Page.)
Wilson Highly Elated \
Over Results of His \
Trip to Middle West
Firm in Belief That
People Are Bach
of Him.
ON I JO A KD PRESIDENT WILSONS
SPISCIAL. INDIANAPOLIS, IND.. Keb
ruary *.?President Wilson was spiel
ing back to Washington to-night. con
v I need that the people *>f the Middle
West are with him on tfc.' issue of na
tional defense. and are prepared to in
sist that Congress take speedy action.
Me finished his speaking tour In St.
I.nuiv to-day. ami expressed the con
viction that his mission had succeeded
beyond his greatest hopes. He will ar
rive ill Washington at 1 o'clock to
morrow afternoon
I 'resident Wilson's advisers believe
he has explained clearly why he con
! siders immediate preparednerJ itnpera
? tive, has won many converts to the
I movement. and has Riven new Impetus
1 to a discussion of the cause. Krotn the
j sympathetic attitude of most of his
| audiences, from the enthusiasm hia
. very appearance in public has evoked.
from the 11 ticto crowds which have
. ureeled him, tliev have drawn the roti
; elusion that the people overwhelmingly
;U pport his plans?at least, In the
Mi'ldl" West
Tiie I ?resident's official family want
him to start soon on another tour.
s,,me of them liken hi- swing through
t, Middle Went \>> an operation not
*.-i completed. En route to Washing
ton ?o-nlght. they looked hoth South
mi West for 'h-' setting of his ne\?
appearance in the io|" of champion of
national pt ep.tr* dr,< sf..
<IM Til IIE<I\<IXS \Ml.S<)>
WITH MA XV 11A X 1J >>
The South beckoned with many
I'.aiuis Senators and Representatives
from most of the Southern States al
ready have askr.l him to include their
| sections on his next. t..ur, There have
been added invitations from many
puhlie bodies, with Texas strongly as
.-.erting her claims. TP* re is a feeling
among some of hia most Intimate :>d
visers tliat 5n choosing the scene for
his nevt plea to the pe<|>le. the Presi
dent could pay r.o greater compliment
to his own political party than by going
, into its stronghold.
Minneapolis, St. Paul and Denver
have presented what they **? onsider
strong claims, and It Is possible that
if tin President makes another pre
parrdness tour it may Include those
| cities and then swing south Into Texas.
' possibly returning by way of New
Orleans, Ulrmlngham <?r Louisville,
although nothing has been decided
? onceruing this.
President Wilson goes lack to Wash
liigtor refreshed by the trip. not
? f' itrue'1.. as some thought h?? would be.
The enthusiasm displayed wherever his
itinerary has taken him and the throngs
I which flocked to hear him have been a
? tonic to his nerves. His physician said
to-day his appetite is good and his rest
has been unimpaired. The addresses
delivered at the chief stopping places
have been apparently as neiiericial as
ir.s usual game of golf.
At least 1 OIV'OO poisons, bis advisors
state, heard the. President's chief
speeches, l'ullv 5'>.000 more crowded
about the rear platform <>f his car
during his flve-mlnutc talks, and hardly
1 fewer than f'00,000 others have been
banked on the sidewalks: in various
1 cities to watch him pass.
WANTS l. V. TO 11AVK
t.KKATKST XAVV IX WOHI.I)
President Wilson to-day told an
audience of l.">,000, which swayed with
a tumult of cheering, that the United
t States should have the greatest navy
i In the world.
"I believe the navy of the United
' states should be unconquerable." he
said, "the greatest in the world."
Tlie President declared that subma
rine commanders abroad have instruc
tions which, for the most part, conform
j with international law, but that the
act of one commander might set the
w>rld afire, including America.
^ "Upon the ocean thero are hundreds
of cargoes of American goods," ho
"cotton, urn In and all the boun'.i
fi-1 s pplies America Is sending out to
?lie world?anil any one of those car
goes, any one of those ships, may be
the point of contact that will bring
America into the war.
For the first time during the tour,
I the President told how one set of bel
ligerents was cut off from the world.
| Ho said this kept the United States
from helping them as il would like,
i He made the statement In trying to
show that the United States was really
: neutral.
At the. breakfast of the St. Louis Rusi
| liens Men's League the President de
Iclnred here that he believed there would
I never be nnotlier war like the present,
and that the war will hasten the. time of
perioral ponce.
j Governor Miijor, of Missouri, s.it next
' to the President. The room was deco
rated Willi American Hags. Enthusias
tic applause greeted the President as
he rose to speak.
When ho spoke of his conviction thatj
a tariff board should be creatod, tho
applause was enthusiastic. He then
spoke of national defense. .
KIXIIS WHAT III*: SEEKS
IX THE MIDDLE WEST;
The President opened IiIh Coliseum
speech with the statement that he bad]
"come seeking something in the Mid- (
dlo West and found it." Ho said he j
had been told the Middle West was!
against preparedness, but did not be-1
IIeve It.
"1 know the people of the Middle
West were Just as patriotic as the rest
of the nation," be said.
"\o man can lead America anywhere
(Continued on Tenth rage.)
Germans Preparing
for New Offensive
ISpeciiil t'nlile Jo Tin* TIiiicn-I>Is
pntcb. |
1. II X it I) \, Kehriinrv It.? I'rn
nonnceil nctl\lty on tin* ?ohIitii
front in ueconipnnleil hj- ninny rc
ports from vnrlouM Niiurcrx Hint the
(?rrmoiiM nro prepnrlnur mi oIVciikIvc
on it u;riiii?l Mciile, perhaps nnothcr
ntti'iniit to hrenk throiipli to t'ulni*
?ikI Dunkirk.
\ iiintfriliini report* flint H.'hhi neiv
minx of vitrioiin cnllhrr hnvr Ju?t
nrrlveil nt tin* tiernum front. nml
Hint for Nevernl iIiijm there Iiiin been
n f*tiii*tIIIIt n1 rrnin of troops pntxlnp
lliroiipli IIcIkIuui.
'I In- 1'rench Wnr Olllce linn been
informed Hint violent tiermun nt
tncl. m nrc Imminent nlonii the \ hit.
l.nrpe hodlrx of tirrmnn troop* tin*
helnp hmucrht up. They lire e \ -
feinlltic mill nt renutflenlng their
elnhnritfc system of trrnrli forti
fication* uIouk tlic entire I runt frnni
Wesfetiile to V pre?.
It In believed in I'nrii flint the
enptnre of Xienport Ih the lin
meillnte object of the otfenxive
movement. Init Itrlllsli troops sire
(lino prepnrlnp to renin! pn nttuek in
the ilireetion of Duukirk.
E
Newspaper Man Kvmlr,>> Itnn tin Press
ami Inspect* Captured
Vessel.
oiAitn is )titcsiii:i> \siiu:.
West Africa Negroes, mi Their
"Farthest North" .Journey, Fur
nish Merriment for Others on
Hoard?Women I .east Concerned.
XKWI'i.iRT XKWS. V.V.. February 3?
The ' Jerman prize commander's ban
against newspaper men boarding t h<?
[former British liner Appatn was evaded
j to-day by an Associated i'res? r<*presen-I
lative a few hours before all her I'ritish
, p.^csctipfri and prisoners had bn'n dis
embarked. As the ship lav at anchor
off this nor: the cm respondent pot.
! n>?or?rd ami walked about th? two tipper j
?locks for an hour chatting with mem-',
bers of the prize crew and their cap-i
t!
Access to the i-hip was pained by ao- ?
; companyirg a uip bearing the masters
i of the f ix captured English freight?M .s '
to tii?- ve-s.d. climbing :? swaying lad
dor .i::d floundering over the ? .de into'
a pile of freiuht
Instar.tly a Hitiiui sailot with drawn
j gtm sprang forward arid demanded that]
the visitor depart. Permission to .see
the pr.;:e crew commander, lieutenant
'p.enr. was asked and refused.
"<Set out! (let out at once'' the
sailor cried in fair English, rushing
to the rail of the boat.
"Down the ladder!"
Hut as the guard spoke the 'up.
pulled away and the ladder swayed!
in the wind. The puard, dismayed :
(darted half-way tip a stairway audi
|declared heatedly that to-day was no]
time for visiting.
"Can you not wait until to-morrow?"
' he demanded "Will you be dead to- !
i morrow?"
i And then, after making a grimace.)
i he disappeared up the stairs to return i
I no more.
MOVING DAY OX I'lU'/.K IIOAT.
axi) TiriXQ.s Aiti-: i .xTinvj
lleinp moving day on the boat.!
things were in tather untidy condition.!
The docks were littered with alm-tst!
every conceivable kind of hap?:age. in-!
eluding fishing poles, portable bath-|
tubs, talkinp machines, bicycles and |
scores of trunks.
A crowd of West African negroes.,
whose arrival here marked their;
"farthest north" Journey, were on the
tipper deck behind the forecastle fur-!
r.tshinir amusement f<>r the idling pas-j
sengers. A crowd ?>f women watched i
their antics from the main saloon!
above. The women appeared the least j
concerned over their long detention of'
any one on the boat. Several of them j
were smoking cigarettes, a few wore:
reading ami the rest were calmly,
awaiting the coming of the steamer
that was to carry them ashore.
"Punch," a white cat. and light snow
which the negroes called "white rain." ,
furnished them with plenty to keep'
their minds off their captivity. They!
rubbed the snow on their trouble-j
scarred faces and laughed gleefully.
Occasionally one of them would break:
into a weird <'11.1111 which was under- j
standable to no one. And tltcy would;
play with "Punch."
The* fact that he was far from home,
and had not had a square meal in many 1
days apparently did not worry the i
quartermaster. He was loud in his i
praises of the German treatment of all.
lie speaks five languages, and one of
his assignments was to talk with the
prize crew when passengers of various
(Continued on Third Pag*-..)
Alexander Hamilton Dies
Alexander Hnmilfon, vice-presi
dent nnd general eoun.sel of tlie At
lantic Const I.lne ltallrond and form
er member of tlie VlrKlnin Constitu
tional Convention, died at IiIm home
In Petersburg this morning nt 3t20
o'clock.
More Than 100 British
Passengers and Prisoners
Leave Captured Liner.
COMMANDER AND CREW
LEFT WITH THEIR PRIZE
Sharp Controversy Between
Agents of Owners and British
Embassy at Washington.
I.ATTKKS WISHJvS I'KKV.MI.
Xmio l,ofl on Hoard to Support Claim
That Ciormnns Must For
frit Vessel.
NKWI'OUT Ni:\VS. VA., February
' ?XiiiofRii ilnyp of roastOpss viu'I for
tli?> short-handed German prize ?? w
: aboard the fnrini r Uritish liner Appam
ended la to to-night. wlirn the l ist of
! more than *<)?> I'.ritish passengers ami
prisoners climbed over the ship's side
t<. fit-<-?l<??th on American soil. And for
tin- first t nif since taeutei.; nt Herg
' anil h'.s twenty-two men boarded tho
liner I'roTii the raider which captured
her on thi- night of .Innimry 1 /nost
of the prize crew ?l??pt peacefully i
;t few "f their number on watch
Ml I'.ritish subjects and ill'1 natural
ized Aiikm icM-.. G A. Taeliaferri. ile
pitrted. leaving the prize commander
with the twenty Germans who had
been prisoners on the Apparn. including
three women.
Captain Harrison ati<i the Appam's
l!ritl:-h < r?-w left speir vessel only
after there had been a sharp con
trovetsv iictwecn airents of the owners,
The Kldor-Pempstcr Co.. ami tli? - Hrit
i !i emlassy at Washington.
<;om i* \ \V wants mi:\
to it tow \ t x on \i-;ssr.i.
The company desired its men to re
main on the liner to support the claim
That *!? Hermans forfeit their prise
by rem'iinhig in neutral waters. Hut
the embassy insisted that ever;- one
on the depart as: :-oon as permis
sion had lifttn granted by the prize
commander on the demand of the
United States government.
Plans were changed every hour dur
ing the afternoon and evening. but
die cinl>assy'8 authority prevailed tinai
| ly. ar.'l a ."pecial boat was provided to
| take the Appam's crew of 1 "? "> to Nor
folk to await the sailing of .1 steamer
for New York to-morrow night.
In the meantime. the 13 4 passengers
and the 13t! Uritish seamen captured
with site other seven ships taken by
the raider Ponga, or Moewe, hail been
transferred ;ishore by steamers. Five
of the seamen, one Englishman and
four i-ascars, of the crew of the Clan
.Mi Tavish, all suffering from several
wninds. wet-- r. ino\e.| to a local hos
pital for treatment. All the test, with
most of the passengers, were placed
aboard river steamers for Norfolk. An
Old Dominion Unci was being held at
her dock to take them to New York.
The J'.rlti. li government is caring for
all passengers and crews of the cup
ttjjed freighters. and will send them
on i<? Ki.gland aboard the tlrst avail
able ship The Kith i - Dempster Co.
will arrange for the return of the Ap
pam's crew.
t OM 'ICllli.VCKS I. A ST
WKI.I. INTO Till-: m<;iit
The Appattt, which had been at Old
Point Comfort since sh< arrived in Vir
gin iti waters on Tuesday morning,
moved up to this port early in the day
and anchored mar the shipbuilding
plant. Met* anchor hardly was on the
bottom before sn ail boats were along
side. and soon there began ashore con
ferences that lasted all day and well
into the night.
Prince von liatzfeldt. counselor or
the German embassy at Washington,
was on hand to assert the claims of the
German govcrnnieit on behalt of the
prize crew commander. Captain <Jaunt,
I'.ritish naval atta.h? and a corps of
vice-consuls, beaded by Vice-Consul
Kenworthy. in charge of the local Itrit
ish consular ol'iee, busied themselves
with arrangements for getting their
fe.low - countrymen otT tit'- captured
liner.
All of the otTieials were in frequent
conversation with Collector Hamilton,
who front the custom-house and on
board the Appam enforced the orders
from the I'nited States Treasury De
partment governing the proceedings of
both Uritish and German officials. Im
migration Inspector Morton handled im
mediate problems, but his task was not
arduous, as the Hritish government pro
vided ample funds for all its subjects
who might have been eniba rrassed by
lack of funds.
It was a happy crowd that disem
barke'd from the liner. There were all
kinds of people, ranging from Mr
Kd win Mere we titer, the I*. n g I i sh Gov
ernor of an African province, to black
tribesmen with faces slit and scarred
by savage rites. There were Hritish
merchant skippers with their crews
whose ships were captured by the
raider, twelve men the- Germans had
claimed were members of tho Ilritish
army or navy and a dozen women.
i.vitjnnun TO ItKTAIN
SOMI-: AS l'KISOXICKS
Until the American government over
ruled him, Lieutenant Herg intended to
retain as prisoners Captain Harrison
anil the entire crew of the Appam, hold
ing that they resisted capture, and the
twelve alleged member* of an enemy's
army forces.
Collector Hamilton's demand for the
release of all passengers and Knglirdi
sailors on the Appam was .made formal
ly on instructions from Washington.
The State Department had ruled that,
oven though tho vessel might be a
legal prize, Germany could not hold
' (Continued on Second Page.)
iBIG PARLIAMENT
BUILDING BURNS
1'arliamciil Kiiihlin^ at Ottawa.
Huns.- of Delegates Fuils to Indorse
stand Taken by President
Wilson.
; liimiws LKADS OPPOSITION"
Republican Members, Solid for Pre
paredness, Vole to Dismiss Reso
lution, Preferring to Leave Wilson
Administration I'jihumpered.
Following the longest debate that
? the present session of the General Ah
j s<ml.ly has developed. the Douse of!
Delegates yesterday, by a vote of is !?
to 45. dismissed from the calendar ?
Leedy "preparedness" resolution, tie- ,
i cl.irtng fh.-rob\ a hauds-nff policy in
tin* national defense program that la i
tiow engaging the attention of the
President of tho United Stat<
In vain Colonel It I*, Leedy. of Page.'
j commander of one of the throe Virginia
? militia regiments. and a militiaman of
j fifteen years' standing, pleaded with
: the members to give their moral sup
J port tc? (lie administration's prepared
ness program, pointing out the folly of
5 r. mn.'iiing hlind to the inadequatcuess
| of the country's military, naval and
j coax: defense forces when all around
. her aro powerful and envious noigh- |
I l>ors whose armament and battle'
| strength are a constant menace
<'t. the opposite side argued Delegate
? lordon. of Louisa, patron of a rcsolu- I
t ion declaring it to he the sense of
the people of Yiiginia that tliev a i ??
opposed to the increase of national
| taxation for the purpose of increasing
| the standing army, and that the normal
I growth of the navy under the Demo-!
j cratic administration is adequate for
! the country's needs.
MOSs WA VI'S I'ltr.smicNT
I.HPT I MI VMfi:ni:n
A ilozcii ntemhers took the tloor to j
j voice sharply differing views on the hig j
; national issue. In the number, notably j
j Delegate Moss, of Lynchburg, were!
| those who believed that it was the
! part of wisdom to lot Congress and 1
the President work out the problem'
i themselves without advice from the '
General Assembly of Virginia, whose |
) members could not have the intimate i
| knowledge of national and interna
tional affairs necessary to guide them
j aright in their judgment.
I When the debate had stretched
j through the whole morning, and was :
j already three hours old, the Issue was
abruptly brought to a decision by a
| motion for the previous question.
Thereupon Delegate Moss offered a
substitute for the Gordon resolution,
; declaring the Virginia Legislature's
i abiding faith in the wisdom and judg- '
I incut of J 'resident Wilson and its be
i lief that the great question now be
fore the nation will be wisely and
| adequately met by him and his ad
! visers.
The Moss resolution was killed by a
vote of ;>s in i-i. Delegate Musgravo
j hero moved that the Cordon anti
' preparedness resolution he dismissed, '
! and the motion was carried bv a vote
j of to S. Only the Leedy resoluton
? and a committee amendment, wore now
before the body. Mr. Moss now offered
: his resolution, which was defeated a
! lew minutes before, as a substitute
. for tho whole, and aguiu it was de
i feated.
lp.p.im itp.soi.i;ti?\ paii.s
ox iti:<oi<i)i:i> villi-:
| The Mouse, approved the committee
| amendment to the Leedy resolution
I recommending tho enactment of a Pcii- j
j eral law under which arms and in
' struction could be furnished the '
I students of public high schools who
? organized themselves into battalions
| for this purpose. With the adoption i
t "f the amendment, the vote came up '
now on the amended Leedy resolution,
which indorsed the President's effort ?
to secure a proper and adequate plan
of national defense, recommended the
strengthening of the coast defenses, !
and upheld the militia increase plan of1
Chairman James Hay. ? " the Douse i
Committee on Military Affairs.
Delegate Musgrave moved that the]
amended Leedy resolution be dismissed,
and an aye and no vote showed its
apparent defeat by a vote of ti! to 43.
Opponents of tho Leedy resolution,
however, called for a recorded vote.
This was taken, and tho motion to
dismiss was carried by tho harrow j
vote of t8 tq'45, tho Hepubiican minor
ity voting in n body to strike the "pre-1
parodness" resolution from the rjilen-1
dar.
Hepubiican Floor Loader Lowry ox
tCoutlnucd on Fifth Page.)
PEOPLE If CHOOSE
MORALS COMMISSIONER
Informal Conferences Point to Prob-j
able Amendment of Probibi
tion Hill. |
STKODK Qi;iTS CO.M.MITTKK
Swaps Places "W* It Ii Senator llolt.
Leaders Apree to Kleetion by Peo
ple After First Term, for Wblcli
CJeneral Assembly Is to Klect.
Informal conferences between prohi
bition leaders, which follower! yester
day as Die aftermath of the public
hearing on the Mnpp bill Wednesday,
resulted in the unoflicial statement that
the I? i 11 ill lie amended to provide
that the Commissioner of Moral Wel
fare, after the first term. shall be
elected by the people.
The Mapp bill, in its present form, j
provides for the election of the com
missioner by t he CJeneral Assembly
every six years, in abandoning this
i plan in favor of election by the people,
! the prohibition forces would carry to
its fullest application their statement,
through Dr. Cannon, that it was their
desire to make this ollleer near and
responsible to the electorate.
Conferences between prohibition
leaders of both houses were In progress
all day. Chairman Mapp. of the Senate
Committee on Moral and Social Wei
fare, before which body the prohibi
tion bill is pending, said yesterday that
the committee lias as yet taken no
definite action either ?in the proposed
new amendment or upon the several
other suiigcstions for changes.
kxi'uvsk or iMtntvitv m:i,i> to
I'llKVKXT Kl.r.t TIO.V TltlS YKAIt
The plan to elect the commissioner
; by the people, it was stated on good I
authority, appealed to most of the in- i
tliicntia! prohibition men in the two
, houses as preferable to election by (he
i General Assembly. Only the expense,
j involved iti holding a special primary '
j this year, it is understood, stands in
| the way of an amendment to the bill
' which would give to the people the
| election of the first Commissioner of
Moral Welfare.
I' the present tentative program
with regard to the comtnissionership j
is carried out, the first commissioner j
wiil'he elected by the present General !
Assembly for a term which will expire j
at the expiration of the term of Gov- j
ernor Stuart. Thereafter the commls- j
sioner will be chosen at the general j
election for a four-year term with the J
tjovernor, I.leu tenant-Governor. Attor
ney-* Seneral and other State officers.
Although the Senate Committee on i
Moral and Social Welfare held a '
lengthy session yesterday afternoon, it
adjourned without incorporating any I
amendments in the Mapp bill. A num- ?
ber of the proposed changes were ilis- |
cussed?among them the amendment I
desiuncd to allow the sale and distribu- '
tion in the State of outside periodicals!
carrying liquor advertisements. It is j
understood that a majority of the com- ;
mittee are opposed to yielding? to this
demand.
?i.\\ it ??;<? i iin: \ kwsiiioa i,10its
TO i:\IM IttiATK I'LUMCATItlNS
if tiiis provision is retained, news
dealers will be compelled to delete with
a black rubber stamp or otherwise the
champagne, wine ami liiiuor advertise
ments lliat appear in large number in
some of the nationally circulated
humorous papers before placing them j
on sale on newsstands. The periodi
cals, after they have been expurgated
according to law. will present the gen- i
era I appearance of a Socialist paper
after it has been released by the Rus
sian censor.
A significant development was the
announcement yesterday bv the. Senate'
Steering Committee that Senator Strode,
had resigned from the Senate Commit
tee on .Moral and Social Welfare and
had been assigned to the Committee on
Public Institutions and Kducation. Ilis
place or. the Moral Committee was
taken by Senator llolt. of Newport t
News, who retires from the Public In
stitutions Commit lee.
Senator Strode, explaining his resig
nation, said that ho was actuated only
by a desire to renew his affiliation with
tho Committee on Public Institutions
and Kducation, of which he. was a mem-;
ber during a former term in tho Sen-'
ate. The two Senators merely ex-j
changed places.
uoi/r srrcKicns stiiodk
ON MOItAI.S l UMMITTKi:
Senator llolt was the leader of tho
"wet" faction in the Senate of ion, and
his assignment to tho Committee on'
(Continued on Fifth Page.) 'j
Flames Spread So Rapidly
That Escape Almost
Is Cut Off.
TWO GUESTS OF WIFE
OF SPEAKER LOSE LIVES
Several Policemen and Firemen
Buried by Collapse of One
End of Structure.
TWO HOI SK MKMItKKR MISS1XK
Many of Tlient Stifling With Smoke,
Forced to licnp From Windows
Into I-ifc Nets.
11TTAWA, ON'T.. February 3.?The
historic Cattail!;! n P.ii'linnicnt nuihlinjj
was destroyed last tii?lu by a tiro. de
clared unotlicinlly to have boon caused
i l>\ th'1 explosion of a gas bomb or an
i infernal machine. Two women. guests
of the wife of Speaker Sevigney. were
overcome by smoke ami perished. Sev
eral policemen anil firemen were buried
under debris when "tie end of the build
in is collapsed. The number of persons
taken to hospitals had not been deter
mine.! early this morning. Frederick
F. Pardee, chief Liberal whip, ami
? William S. l.,oggie. a member of Parlia
j incnt from New Brunswick, are tniss
! ing, and it is feared they have lost
I their lives.
Two dominion policemen and two
' House of Commons attendants are de
' dared to have been killed when the
| roof fell.
I The main tower fell at 11 :'S0 o clock,
j It was believed at that time there was
! still hope of saving the library,
i According to reports, the first burst
| of flames. In the reading-room, was fol
? lowed by at least one explosion, and
j probably two. The flames spread so
rapidly that the Ottawa tire brigade
j was utterly helpless. Aid was sent
; front Montreal on a special train.
i fOXTKXTSf OF III il.DIMi
<)!?' I MOSTIMAlll.r. > AIXM
The loss cannot be estimated in
'money. The building was valued.at
about $5,000,000, but the contents are
j of Inestimable value There was no in
: sura nee.
At midnight the Commons and Sen
' ate chamber had been destroyed, and
! as the great clock boomed out the
I hour, flames were sweeping up the
j magnificent tower anil licking then
| wav towards the clock.
| The fire in the great $.*.,000,000 struc
I ture. the finest Gothic pile in North
America, was discovered at S:.">0 o'clock.
| It broke forth in innumerable places.
Half an hour later a tremendous explo
sion shattered the. right wing of the
buildings.
The flames burst forth with the sud
denness of a lightning stroke. Strang
ling brown smoke accompanied them.
The Ottawa fire department and the
special tire squad assigned to Parlia
ment worked like madmen, but the
water seemed to feed the flames.
The tire started on the north side of
the Commons. Frank Glass, member of
Middlesex, discovered the flames. He
gave immediate alarm, but even he,
nearest the door, had difficulty in
escaping.
Tho two women who perished were
Madame Bray and Madame Dussault.
The loss so far is estimated at
510,000,000.
X\011!-:\ ItlM'OMK I.OST
IX SM Olv K-FU.I.K1> CIHIIIIIIOHS
Madame 15ray and Madame l.tussault
became lost in the smoke-filled corri
dors. Firemen found them on a nar
row stairway, clasped in each other's
arms. The exact number of persons
missing is unknown.
No sooner hail the alarm sounded
than General Sam Hughes took charge
of the situation. The Seventy-seventh
liegiment, engineers, and other detach
ments were called out. He himself
and his staff rushed to the scene, and
a cordon of troops was stretched
around the building.
The house was in session when the
fire started at 8:50 o'clock in the beau
tiful library building at the north side
of the. Commons Huilding. It spread
with enormous rapidity. Secretary of
Agriculture Hon. Martin Hurrell. who
was at work in his oftice, had a narrow
escape, and was badly burned about
the face and hands.
The progress of tho fire was terrify
ing. and it burst upon the great h;ills
like a deluge.
XI. Sevigny was in the Speaker's
chair.
W. S. l.eggle, of New Brunswick,
was discussing the improvement of tho
Dominion fish tratio. The house wto
silent, save for his voice.
t<I.ASS, ON DKAl) IUW.
<;IVKS WAKXIMi OF FIRB
Frank Glass, member for Middlesex,
cante into the chamber on a dead tun.
He staggered against tho railings in
the rear.
"The buildings arc on tire!" he gasped.
Then he staggered out.
Almost immediately a wall of smoke
heavy, black and choking?rolled Into
the big hall. It swept forward slowly,
like the billowing of the ocean on a
calm day. Uyt Mte members who
sought to pierce it were staggered
Some ran to the lookers for their coats;
others fled coatless and hatless. For
the moment there was a terrible panic.
