MARKETS
NJEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Feb. 2
25.23
WEATHER
Arizona Fair
MCMBfR ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 215.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 4, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
ami ' mens
V OLAT ON
BF
MANN ACT
CHARGED
HERE
TO HELP COMMERCE
WITH AUSTRALIA
Joseph Griffiths, Cornish Mi
ner, Held in $10C0 Bail on
Charge-of Having Violated
White Slave Laws.
ENGLISH WOMAN IS
COMPLAINING WITNESS
Defendant According to Com
plaint Brought Woman to
Bis'oce from Cornwall on a
Froinise of Marriage.
Alleging that Jbseph Griffiths, a resK
dr-nt of Bisboe for several year and
employed In one of the local mines,
brought her from her home in Corn
wall, England, ' under the promise of
marriage and failed to make good that
verbal agreement. Susan Ferrell, a
Cnini.-bwopian of about twenty-seven
years, swore to a complaint yesterday
before United States Commissioner Ja
red D. Taylor, which resulted in the
miner's arrest for the violation "of the
Mann Art.
According to the complaint, which Is
on file with the United States commis
sioner, Susan Ferrell was a resident of
Twyonhayle Lodge, Blackwater, Scor
rier, Cornwall, England, in the sum
mer of 1915 and before that time.
Criffiths went to England on a visit
and met the woman.
The defendant, according to repre
sentations made to Judge Taylor yes
teidav, made a proposal of marriage
to the woman, and asked her to come
t0 the United States. This Miss Fer
rell agreed to, providing Griffiths
would marry her.
1 SCT . v
! .wi'wf s i
ten ciiyiri
ilLUULL
H 8Y RAIDING
ZEPPELIN
Phillip Kennedy.
Phillip Kennedy, newly appointed
commercial attache of the United
States, has been assigned to the post
et Melbume, Australia. It is his
duty to study the trade conditions
of the country and advise the United
States of its commercial opportune,
ties. Mr. Kennedy comes from a pro
fessorship in New York U ui ei ....., .
He has made a special aiuoy .'
European economics.
HE OPERATORS
TUI DOWN
DEMANDS '
Owners of Anthracite Coal
Mines Reject the Proposals
of the Unions for' Increase
in Wages; Other Changes.
NEW YORK. Feb. 3. The anthra
cite coal operators, rejected the de
mands of their miners for a twenty
per cent increase in wages and the
The complaining witness avers sho complete recognition of the United
British Boat, the Franz Fisch
er, Sunk with All the Crew
Except Three, by Bomb
Dropped by Aircraft.
WILSON ACCUSED OF
BEING UNNEUTRAL
-i ,
Russians Calculate Their Loss
es, So Far, Have xieen 3,
000,000 Men. Survivor
of Raid Tells Story.
LONDON. Feb. 3. The British'
steamer Franz Fischer, of London, has J
been sunk and only three of the crew
saved.
The vessel, which left Hartlepool j
Monday, was sunk by one of the raid-:
ing Zeppelins that visited England. J
Thirteen of the crew, including thei
captain, were drowned. One survivor
said 1 "We beard a noise overhead
such' as we had never heard before.
Presently a Zeppelin came right on
top of us and dropped a bomb which
i fell near the engine room. A treruen
idous explosion followed, the vessel re
maining afloat only two minutes."
The Fischer was captured as an en
emy vessel and was employed as a
coasting collier. The survivor contin-I
ued: "There was no time to launch !
life boats. We went under with the
ship. , When I came up I caught hold
of a lifebelt. After swimming for
some time, I came across the chief en
gineer and steward, who also mftnag
ed to get to the lifebelts. By the; aid i
I kept afloat an hour." The three lat- j
er were picked up by a Belgian steam- j
er. The collier wag riding at anchor
aUtbe time of the attack and i is be
lieved her anchor lights were seen by
the Zeppelin's crew.
. " " i. . . .
Canadian Parliament Building Destroyed By Fire, Origin
of Which Is Supposed to Have Been an Infernal Machine
OTTAWA, Ont., Feb. 3. The historic Canadian Parliament waa deitroyed by fire and it it declared tn
officinijy to have been caused by a i infernal machine.. Two women were overcome by the smoke and per
ished: Several policemen and firem ;n were burled under th? debria when one end of the building collapsec.
The numb;r taken to hospitals is undetermined. Frederick Pardee, Chief Liberal ' Whip; William Log
gia, member of Parliament from New Brunswick, are missing and beltjvid dead. Twq policemen and two
, Commons' attendants are declared to have been killed when the roof felll The fire waa raging at 1:30
Fiic'ay morning. (
It has been tstatlished that the first bunt of flame in the reading room of the House of Commons
was preceded by at lejst one e;:ploeion and probably t vo. A rigid investigation to determine the cause
already has been undertaken by the Dominion authorities. The flames spread to rapidly that the Cttawa
fire brigade was helpless and aid waa cent from Montreal. The Building waa valued at $5,000,000 and the
contents were of inestimable value. '
There was no insurance. At midnight the Commons and Senate Chambers were destroyed but the
Parliament library prcbably will be saved. All but tne main portals were closed since the outbreak of the
war to rafeguard the legislators. This probably is responsible for the death of two women who were guests
of the wife of Speaker Sevigny. . .
FLAMES UNDER CONTROL.
OTTAWA, (Friday) Jan. 4 At 3 o'clock the fireman were said to believe the flames un der control.
The fife was thin racing on the Senate sitie o the building. Three sf the four men killed when the roof
felli were identified as a policeman, waiter and plumber. ' -
- "PREl'AKEDN ESS" IS SLOGAN O F WASHINGTON SCHOOL GIRLS
sailed from Liverpool, England, Octo
ber 16. 1915. and arrived at Ellis Is
land, the immigration station at New
York, October 25. On representation
of Griffiths the woman was released
from Ellis. Island and left for the west
mm says
VISIT WAS
SUCCESS
Wilson and His Official Fam
ily on Way to Washington
Having Finished Flying Trip
Through Middle West.
PEOPLE ARE WITH HIM
IN PREPAREDNESS PLAN
i ;:ruT uifinmrs oi gins rihr club in a Washington high srhovl.
Even the bcl;o. gu-u cf Washington hav ; heard .l;e preparedness glofran that has cone oat f roai comrresi
and they are preparing for war. Thi3 picture shows the charter members of a girls' rifle club formed at the West
ern high school, the firs: organization of its kind in Wasliiiipt.Mi Mi He:M. 1 um?r.in;s, who t!i"' in the
center with her Lji.d on the Lnecli of her rifle, is the oigar.iKui and uj tain of the fair pieuieJr.esj ei.ampioiis.
RUSSIAN LOSS 3,000,000
LONDON, Feb. 3. The Russians
calculate their casualties thus far to
wages. The operators propose, f the
differences cannot be settled by the
interested parties, that they be sub-
November 4. She arrived in El Paso j mitted to the board of conciliation
Mine Workers of America, a ..two
year working agreement, an eight hour
day and changes of methods -in fixing be three million. They say a million
uerman ana Austrian prisoners nave
been sent ,to the interior of Russia, j
November S and there met Griffiths,
vho had ?one there from Eisbee.
According to Miss Ferrill, Griffiths
promised to marry her upon her arriv
al at El Paso. This be did not do.
The following day the two came to
Rihee where they lived as man and
wife.-until a short time ago.
provided in the award of the anthra
cite coal strike commission of 1902.
The miners' demands were formu
lated in September at Wilkesbarre
and ratified by the convention of mine
wcrkers last week, at Indianapolis.
Replying to the employes the opera
tors stated that granting wage in-
according to a Copenhagen dispatch.
The Copenhagen . correspondent evi
dently must have obtained his infor
mation from an American Red Cross
detachment which has been serving
many months on the Russian' front,
which, the correspondent says, sailed
from Bergen for New York.
Rfi' Pf"f)Pl P' TIES FOR TRENCHES.
I I LUI La. BOSTON, Feb. 3. An offer of
RETURN
TO HOMES
Griffiths maintains that he wants to 'crease would mean an advance to the
marry the woman while she declares
that, repeatedly, she asked the defend
ant to marry her.
consumer of sixty cents per ton in
domestic sizes of anthracite.
They declared the anthracite indus-
Judse Taylor set the preliminary of ! try is being conducted on as "low a
the ense for 2 p. m. Saturday, when it j margin of profit J8 possible if the
is expected W. J. Bryan, Jr., assistant operators are to continue to, serve the
(United ' States attorney, will be on public".
hand to handle the prosecution. Grif-j Answering the miners' contention
fiths was held in $1000 bond. j that cost of food in twelve years has
i increased forty per cent and wages
COLOMBA NOT SATISFIED.
Ave and a half per cent, the operators
I present figures purporting to show an
WASHINGTON. Feb. 3. While the ! increase of .only sixteen per cent In
Columbian treaty was being brought J miners' total cost of living compared
Into the Senate, Julio Botancourt, I wi'h nincrease of thirty-six per cent
Columbian minister, issued a state-;'" earning capitl.
ment expressing disapproval of amend-' ' '
merits reducing the indemnity f rom i KILLS FEDERAL OFFICER
twenty-five to fifteen million, and to j . '
make expressions of regret for parti-1 SAN FRANCISCO. Feb. 3. M. D.
tion of the Panama mutual to both j Jones was shot and killed by M. B.
nations. Betancourt is certein the Chamblin, Jr., United States deputy
treaty will be rejected on account ot i collector of internal revenue, on whom
the amendments. . Jones opened fire when Chamblin at-
Suggestions are make in Latin-Ame-1 tempted to arrest him as a dealer in
rican quarters that Betancourt is con-j unlawful drugs. Morphine .valued at
sidering whether it wiuld be an ex- $6,000 was found later in Jones' room.
pedient and diplomatic method of ex-l Federal officers said Jones, if not
SAS WILSON UNNEUTRAL
COLOGNE, Feb. 3 TheKoelnischo
Zeitung commenting on . quotations
from Wilson's speech indicating immi
nence of warlike complications ex-
Expatriated Citizens of San
Miguelito Can Return . if '.
They Declare Certain of ; -
Their Leaders Exiled.
five cents for 100,000 cast off
railroad ties wasr eceived by the
Boston & Maine Railroad from
the British government. The ties
were formerly burned. The com
pany ordered them saved. It is
understood the British govern
ment is negotiating with other
railroads in the hope of obtain-'
ing 500,000 for use in construct
ing trenches in France. "
NEED IDE MEN
10 GUARD THE
ii ISTHMUS
t
Executive Now Considering a
Trip into the West, North
west and South. Reaches
Capital Much Refreshed.
ABOARD WILSONS SPECIAL, IN
DIANAPOLIS. Feb. 3. The President,
returning to Washington, is convinced
i that the people of the Middle West are
with him on the issue of national de
fense and preparedness and will In
sist that Congress take speedy action.
He finished his speaking tour in St.
Louis and expressed the conviction
that his mission had succeeded beyond
i his greatest hopes. He ' arrives at
Washington tomorrow.
At least 100.000 persons heard his
speech and 50,000 more crowded abont
the rear platform of his car during his
ten minutes talk, though a majority
of these were beyond the range of his
voice. His official family wants him
to start soon on another tour. Some
of them liken his swing through th
Middle West to an operation not com
plete. En route to Washington they
looked to the south and west for the
setting of his next appearance in th
role of rbs:upion of national prepared
ness.
j The south is beckoning with many
j hands. The west and northwest, at
least the section fringing on the east
ern slope of the Rockies is hardly less
insistent that fhe President's visit b
j to th-m. It is possible, if the Presi
jdent makes another preparedness tour
I it mnv include the West. Northwest
land South. The President's advisors
'le'ieve he explained clearly why he
DOUGLAS, Feb. 3. Several nun-'
dred persons who were driven from
Sonora last December as a result of
being in sympathy with Villa wjll be '
pehmitted to return to their homes
in San Miguelito from Chihuahua, if
M
IS
OM
pressed the opinion that the President j they designate certain of their leaders j
had Germany rather than England in ! who must remain exiled, according to '
mind. "The President dislikes Ger- advices received by Mexican Consul'
many just as much as he is kindly disjLelivier from General Calles, military '
posed to England and her allies," the governor of Sonora.
J Twenty-five Thousand, One- considers the matter of preparedness
n.i.rf.r.(P..ntsinlmn! imperative .and has won many con-
t M j j iji verts to that movement and given a
Army, are Needed to Ade-. new lmp(,tU!, t0 discussion of th
quately Defend the CanaL cause.
His advisors have drawn the con
clusion that the people will over
whelmingly support his plan, at least
in the Middle West. The President is
refreshed by his trip. He is not fa
ttened, as some think to be the case.
I The President told his St. Louis audi-
WASHINGTON, Feb. 3 Twenty
five thousand men, more than the
fourth of the present total of the I
standing army, are needed to insure
adequate protection of the Panama
Canal, Erigadler General Edwards.! ence today that he came from Wash
commanding the canal garrison, told!inEtn linking the country with him
on the issue of preparedness and was
the Senate Military Committee, in out-
paper says. "Nevertheless. Wilson j Garcia's six followers declared they I Affair Threatens to Affect decared
, lining his opinions on defense. He hj!t fHle9t hopes
going back knowing it t0 be so beyond
does not intend to hint to any specific: had escaped from a cordon of Carran-
nation, but only clinch his arguments j troons. althoueh the majority of
in behalf of preparedness." 'Garcia's men including about two hun
The Koelnische Zeitung adds: "Forjdred, surrendered their arms and e
all that Germany must reckon with yie ; nuipment. Garcia is said to have)
fact that there is a man occupying the crossed into western Chihuahua. The)
American presidential chair who in-(Ures prisoners who were fined are all
wardly sides with Germany's enemies i reputed to be wealthy and one is al
the utmost Germany can hope for is, lecpd'to be a priest,
a continuance of America's lukewarm i The expatriation of the San Migueli
neutrality, despite occasional utter-1 to residents was the outgrowth of a
ances of Congress against England." feud of many years standing between
i them and the inhabitants of "Bavispe.
The two communities are about three
tha ttnmv was r.fTprotl pvprv
i- e .1 r l . . - -
oome or ine runaameniaii raci,jtv for ,andlnK an army on the; important message
Questions of Naval Warfare Pacific side, reaching by easy march-j INDUNAPOL1S. Feb. 3. The Presl-
Between Two Countries. ' vllal of the canal the Mira-jdcit received from Secretary Lansing
Mores and yedro Miguel Locks. what members of the party called
WASHINGTON, Feb. 3 The Ap- Edwards asserted that fixed fortifl-J "very important dispatches," regard
pam case has broadened out and is cations cannot guard the lone with : ing the foreign situation. The exact
becoming complicated in possibly a out a mobile army to back them. Hej contents were not revealed. It is tin
far reaching situation, threatening to said the Jungle on a port or the zone derstood they related to the Lusitania
affect some fundamental questions or would be more of a protection than and Appam cases,
naval warfare as issue between the hidrance to an approaching enemy, j The President spent the morning
United States and Germany. He stated that he contemplated a reading dispatches In his private car
It is undecided whether the ship force of civil employes of from 2.000 j and through them getting in touch
will be returned to their British own- to 15,000 whites and 10.000 blacks. Hefwlth developments in the foreign situ
ers. under the Hague 'convention, or advocated' legislation requiring all! at ion since he left Washington. Final
held as a prize by the German captors male civilian employes of the ccial settlement of the Lusitania case is ex
under the Prussian-American ' treaty, or suitable age and physical condition j pected soon after the President reach-
althoui'h indications remained that to obligate themselves to volunteer
LIVES LOST IN FLOOD
LITTLE ROCK. Feb
3. Eleven
lives and $100,000 damage caused by'
miles ar-art. The Bavispe citizens es
poused the Carranza cause.
the flood in Arkansas.' Hundreds are.
homeless. In the next two days it ls: RA"- STATION ATTACKED
: . j . , j in v. f. i , i'amij h p n .i. a i a r up mrrp or
, , u. v,i,via .it.. , exoecieu me loss uiiu suiitri iuk iii ur :
pressing his disapproval If he left the the leader, was an important member! increased. The twons of Dumas. Mel-: r-andit attacked he small Carranza
legation to Bogota. His statement de-(0f the drug ring and a number or ar- wood, Ferguson. Laconia and Knowl-.earrison at Moctezuma, on the main
clared that twenty-five million doesn't , rests will be made as the result of ' ton were inundated today. Three hun-l1Ine ot ,np Mexican Central. 100 miles
SENTENCED TO PRISON.- I
NEW YORK. Feb. 3. Frederick
Schleindl, formerly clerk of the Na-
cover a tenth part of the damage to the search of Jones' room.
Columbia. He daclered his personal i
i i tn . i i .
liuprrsiuu i hhi, garnuces 01 ine lasi
thirteen years to bring back confi-!
dence and renew friendship between!
the two countries have been in vain.'
The treaty will be called up for action tjona, city Bank convlcted of 8ellinK
as soon as possible. confidential Information' regarding the
j shipment of munitions to the Allies.
ZEPELLIN FALLS IN SEA I was sentenced to the penitentiary for
GRIMESBY, England, Feb. 3. 'an indeterminate term. Schleindl
Skipper Martin, or the trawler King was accused or furnishing the bank's
Stephen, which has arrived here, re-(private telegrams and other docu
ported that . earlv Wednesday. In thements to Paul Koenig, the alleged
North Sea he saw the Zeppelin L 19 j German secret service agent.
with her boats and part of the n- ;
velope submerge. He noticed seven-l SNOW BURIED BUT LIVES
teen to twenty members of the reir WALLA WALLA, Feb. 3. Buried in
clinging to the envelope. Th - asked j,h snow three hours. Kenneth Lane,
to he taken off but as the men on thews'""! 1. r Milton, Oregon, was res
Zepnlin outnumbered the trawlers' j cued unconscious. Lane was with
crew the skipper declined but csme to .Kenneth Cameron snow shoeing. Ha
Grimeshv and reported to the Admir- j slipped over the edge of the dirt. Cam
alty authorities, eron gave the alarm.
the latter course will be rollowed.
dred families were driven from their ;"uth of EI Paso, according to advices,
homes In the Laconia levee distrirt. Tne Parrison was compelled to retire.
The refugees sought shelter at according to advices and railroad and
Helena, which is not in danger irom ', telegraph wire were cut. destroying
the flood. The business men's club communication with Juarez,
or Arkansas Cltv savs that Doint is! The garrison at Villa Ahumada.
not in serious danger.
WILLARD IS MATCHED.
CHICAGO. Feb. 3. Jes? Willard.
: thirty miles south of Juarez, is en
' route to reinforce the troops at Moc
i teznnia and troops were sent from
'Juarez to reinforce Villa Ahumnda.
The dispatch did not indicate that the
heavvweieht chamnion. sinned an
agreement to meet Frank Moran for attackers were headed by Villa,
ten rounds in New York. March 17.'
The champion will be paid $47,500.; . RESIDENTS FINED
win. lose or draw. j DOUGLAS. Feb. 3. Twenty-two res-
This amount will be paid by the(idents oi Ures. Sonora, have been ar
promoters. Tex Richard and Sam Mr- rested and fined by the Carranza gov
Cracken. or New York, who will pay , ernnient, charged with being enemies
Moran $20,000. In addition to this. t0 that government, according to ar-
Willard gets fifty per cent of the rivals from Nogales.
movie rights and money derived from were reported taken
NEWPORT NEWS, Va.. Feb. 3. A
nineteen days ceaseless vigil for the
German prize crew ended when the
last of more than 4p0 British prison
ers were landed. All the British sub
jects and the one nationalized Ameri
can quit the ship, leaving Lieutenant
Berg with his crew and twenty Ger-
and offer themselves for a period of at
least two months' training during the
first two years ot their employment.
LUSITANIA AFFAIR
WASHINGTON. Feb. 3. Dispatches
on the Lusitania situation from Colo
nel House, no win Europe, are be
lieved to have been delivered to the
mans who had been prisoners on the President on his special train. House
Appam. The British crew left only discussed the- situation with high
after a shart controversy between firman officials, informing them or
the agents or the owners and the tne P"si'ion of the United States and
British embassy at Washington. receiving first hand information on
The company desired the men to their viewpoint,
remain on the liner to support the A semi-official statement from the
claim that the Germans had forfeited rorelsn office was forwarded to this
their prize by remaining In neutral ceuntrv tha there was "reasonable"
waters. The embassy Insisted that .'hat the communication which
every British subject depart as soon hd been started to Von Bernstorff
as permission was granted. ' ,'. would-prove satisfactory to the Unit
Berg talked for the first tlnie and ed States, Is taken to mean that Ger
ridiculed the suggestiori'that his raider many hss not accepted the tentative
The prisoners) was the rruit trader Ponga. Insisting rorm exactly ss submitted. It is said
to Hermosillo. that she was the Moewe. He confirm- that there were certain words the Ber-
ccounts of the capture of seve Im officisis believe coum not pe in-
advertising privileges. The purse is pnd fined trom 5.000 to 30.000 pesos in! ed
the largest ever offered ' fhf a ten Mexican gold earh. Five are said to English vessels but declined to de- eluded because of concern for German
round contest. (Continued on page three) I clined to discuss his future plans. public opinion,
es Washington. He Is determined that
Germany shall make full disarowat
and reparation. It is understood he
will be satisfied with nothing less.
What attitude Germany has taken or
will take toward the last suggestion
sent forward by the German ambassa
dor could not be learned tonight.
MAYOR CALLS CONFERENCE ,
ST. LOUIS. Feb. 3. Following Wil
son's visit. Mayor Kiel announced a
plan of calling a conference or mayors
committees in St. Iritis for March 3.
at which means of supporting the Tres
ident's preparedness policy m ill be con
sidered. The call will be issued joint
ly by the mayors of St. Louis. New
York. New Orleans and other cities t-
be asked to join.
BATTLESHIP ON RESERVE
BOSTON. Feb. 3. The battleship
Georeia. which has been undergoing
repairs at tie Charlestown Navy Yard
has been placed in reserve and her
crew sent to Philadelphia. It stated
much work is still to be done on the
ship and her men are needed for other
ships.
