t -
1
f
r
v
Published Everv
Established
1887
Friday
VOLUME XXIX .
MT. VERNON, ROCKCASTLE COUNTY, KY., PRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4. 1916
NUMBER 16
Jliii!
wumn
4'Wil'Sw
rtt
"" "" '
Sitting Comfortably
Here is an actual photograph of a model in
a KABO Corset and she is comfortable
you can see that it's because
JUDGE BETHURUM'S DECISION IN
THE BOND ISSUE CASE
KABO
'Th Live Model Corset"
Back Lace and Front Lace
is designed and Uttedn
every position sitting,
reclining, standing, beti'd
ing and walking 97 models
are used, representing every
figure type, to insure all-day
comfort and upmost in style
under all conditions. If you
sit a great deal as in sewing,
writing or autotnobiling', and
want a real easy corset you
nhould wear KABO.
Ihey are $1.00. $150
$2 00 and up to $5.00 all
guaranteed not to rut,
break or tear.
tiKl
KABO
comer
SUTTON & McBEE
- - - -
;
m m
KH2ZX2XX33!H
9 NOTICE PJ
What kind of argument can you put up against
M CASTORIA M
the ideal babv medicine. Now mothers, vou of.'
experience know the value of it, and the same things.
can
the
the
be said
prep
great
M
sys tern
of many, many other
arations, namely
v I n O L rd
recons'troctive
TAN LAC ttf
builder and blood purifier..
Patent
tonic,
ttf FELLOW'S C0
t0 SYRUP C0
the medicine that has done more to strengthen the
weak than nearly all else. Don't be prejudiced
against such high-class articles by some one that
knows the least of their value. Call and let us
show you what they have done for others.
CHAS. C DAVIS
Leading Druggist, Mt.Vernon.Ky.
jmmmmm
'Phone 39
!
i
mViiii'k'irM gftMdMi'lj-lili! EmiII5H5wB1
L)b1 repi
There is quite a lot of sickness
in our vicinity, mostly grip and
pneumonia. Mr. A. C. Sowder
and sister, Mrs. Sallie Gentry,
spent Sunday with the family of
Rev. D. R. Gentry, at Quail.
Mr. and Mrs William Hurst at
tended the Fifth Sunday meeting
at Livingston last Sunday. Mr.
and Mrs. W. T. DeBord are re
joicing over the arrival of a new
boy in their home.
Mr. J. T- VanhoofcVas in Lan
caster last week on business.
Swannie Price was home from
Mullfns Station a few days last
week. Mrs. W. F. DeBord is
slightly improving from a long
siege of grip. Mrs. W. H. Brown
spent last Friday night with lier
daughter, Mrs. Eugene McWil
liams near Bandy. Mr. and Mrs.
D. M. Cress spent Sunday with
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. M.
Broyles at Plato. Mr. and Mrs.
W. E. Andeison spent Sunday
with Mr. and Mrs. O. J. Mtillins
Rev. C. D. Candler, of Somer
set, failed bis regular aopointment
at Chapel Sunday.-Vic Prite and
Sherman Thompson att ended the
party given by Miss Grace Ran-
auipn at juirod, last Tuesday.
i) night. Miss Georgia Gentry is
ii .... . . .
visiting ner aunc, Mrs. J. jj.
Niceley and other relatives at this
place this week. Chas. E. Mul
llns was thru here last week call
ing on the merchants. M. E.
Burton was in Somerset most of
last week buying goods for their
store. Mr. aud Mrs. R. H. Brown
spent last Sunday with Mr. and
Mrs. Alex Proctor, at Ottawa. J.
L; Hasty has been confined to his
room for three weeks with a se
vere:case of grip. Last week was
almost like bpring and some of
our farmers took advantage of the
good days and did some plowing.
.But now it seems as af winter had
come. Little Miss Emma Hurst
spent a few days last week with
her sister, Mrs. George Lawrence
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Price.and
son, Dawson, visited Mrs. M. E.
Price one day last week. They
will soon leave tor a visit to rela
tives in the West.- Little Wood
son Mullins is jyitb his grandpar
ents, Mr. and Mrs. B. P. Vanhook
at Ocala
ROCKCASTLE CIKCUlT COURT
G. C. FISH, &C., PLAINTIFFS,
VS:
G. M. BALLARD. COUNTY fnnr.R frP npi?i?HnAiMTc
It appears from this record that an election was held in Rock
castle County on the 27th day of March, 1915, to ascertain the .sense
of the voters as to whether the county should issue bonds to the
amount of $100,000. lor the purpose of building roads " aifd bridges.
The election returns as certified by the election officer showed that
the vote stood 2230 for the position and 472 votes against it.
The plaintiffs in this action were dissatisfied with the result of
the election and feeling that the result as shown by the. certificates
wi ciouuou omcers was nor. ine true sense of the vntftrs rmn ,
question and that fraud and irregularities were engaged? in in the
conduct of said election, ou the- 6th, day of April, 1915, filed a con
test in this court to test the validity of said election. The petition
charges that the election should be set aside for five alleged reasons
to-wit:
1st. Because said election was held by officers other than the
same officers that held the regular election in and for Rockcastle
County at the November election, 1914,
2nd. Because said election was not advertised as .required by
the Statute, in that it was not advertised for at least 30 days next be
fore the day of said election, by printed handbills posTed up at not
less thau 4 public places in each voting precinct in the county ,and ai
the court house door, advertising said election and the objects there
for. 3rd. Because of irregularities and misconduct of the officers oi
gfcifelection ill permitting a number of persons to occupy the booths
oe time ine votes were being cast or taken, in addition to the per-
suns so voting.
. 4th. Because the officers permitted minors, and other persons to
vote who were not qualified under the Statute of Kentucky, and not
legal voters.
5th. Because 800 legal voters were fraudulently certified as vot
ing in favor of issuing one hundred thousand dollars in .bonds fm
the purpose of building roads and bridges, when in fact' and in truth
said 800 voters voted "No," and if said voters had been- truthfuilj
certified the proposition for the issuing of said bonds would havt
been defeated.
The court is of the opinion that on account of the public interest
which the people generally have taken in this contest, the court'
conclusion should be fully and elaborately stated and should be pub
lished in the Signal, in order that the public, generally may have an
opportunity to read for themselves and thus understand the reasons
given by the , court for the judgment rendered, in.this mW,.
that eud it will be necessary fc take up the alleged grounds of con
test, ana separately dispose or them.
The first ground of contest charges that the election should bt
set asidt as invalid for the reason that the election was held by of
ficers appointed by the Election Commissioners esbeciallv to hold th
election. This was ttie duty of the Election Commissioners, and in
appointing election officers to hold the bond election, they were car
rying out the provisions of the Statute, and the law is expounded in
Hail v. Gragg 159 Ky., 75, in passing up6n a contested local option
-lection in said case supra. The local option election held in the
city of Somerset was contested on the ground that the Election Com-
miccinnorc riiri nnt onnnmt 1nst:. - . ., .
..,.,. ..u . uul apumt awuu uiucurs w noia tms local option.
eiecwoa anu oecause mere was no division of the officers of election
as between the "wets" and "drys." The election was held by the
officers who served at .the general election, and all of them were in
favor of local option, and the Circuit Court held that the local option
election was valid and this judgment was upheld by the Court of Ap
peals of Kentucky, aud in so doing and in disponing of the questioc
the Court used this language:
"We construed section 2555, Kentucky Statutes, to require
the appointment of special officers to hold the local option elec
lion, but in the same connection we said 'the ones -selected for
the general elections are not necessarily disqualified from the
latter service ' "'
Further along the opinion says:
"But in this Caise contestants admit that the officers who
held the election were appointed by the county board who hac
the power to select them, so they were officers de facto, h
nothing more; they were in possession, that is, they actually
held the election, and they held it under color of title, and un
der conditions such as to indicate acquiescence of the public in
their action. Such a person is recognized the country over a
a delacto officer. Wendt v. Berry, 154, Ky., -586. The rule
with relation to delacto election officers is stated as follows
in 10 Am. & Eng. Encyc; ,of Law, 2nd Edition, page 670: '
'The general principle that the acts of an officer de facto
are valid, so faras respects the public and third parties, ap
plies as well to election officers as to others; and the question
of irregularity of their aDDointmenfcn.icrhf!o f u- ,
appointment ousht- not tn h nnt.mrf
into in an election contest," v"'
So conclude that the election should not be set aside upon this
ground.
The : second ground of contest is, that no notice of the' election
was posted. There is no substantial evidence that this was not' done
as the law requires, and it is positively stated by Hon. Cam- Mullins
the efficient and accommodating sheriff of Rockcastle County, that
he posted and had posted notices of said election. This completely
disposes ot this question. . v
The third ground-is that there were such' irregularities and mis
conduct of election officers in permitting Deon.f,; t
the voting booths as that theruV sense of the voters could not be
yivpviiy HMurtHiuea. t
Jitt::!fHa of coct
.... .-... ., . a uo eKCHOn snouM not Mt iside on
CASTORIA
Tli lid Y fen fiwip BNght
Jtwrgtha
glgljf T Of
account.
.1
The fourth alleged ground is that the officers of the election per
mitted minors and others not eligible to vote-&M&rt,v,w ,
election. This was not proven. WrUC,pate
tmed
- - --w- " .vwwiL w Liici ijiiiiiiw urnoti n &. . .
MmM.u:.. "-bu tney voted against
proposition.
the
The contestants failed to sustain this charge by the evidence
and in fact, it could not legally have been proven even if it haTS
S C?Urtf APP6?lS iQ "broken hue of opiS
has held that it is incompetent for leal vr . . u'T"',
tW kind of proposition, and the courts ul JSfiair such ZZ
evidence even if offered. This being true, if every voter in the
county had voted against the bond issue and his vote counted for it
and so certified, the evidence as to how they voted would be incompe
tent, and the election could not be set aside for this reason.
But you may grant tor the sake of arguement that each ind ev
ery charge made in the petition as a ground of contest is true, and
w&3 absolutely sustained by the evidece, still it is the opinion of the
court that the election could not be set aside,
It is alleged in the answer, and not denied, that soon after the
said election a suit was instituted in the Roekcastle Circuit Court by
E. S. Albright, a citizen and taxpayer of this county, against the Fis-
cal Court of said county, in which he sought to enjoin the said court
from issuing these bonds, notwithstanding the election. A demurrer
was filed to his petition and a Special Judge of said court sustained
che demurrer to the petition. The plaintiff declined to further plead;
the court entered an order dismissing the petition; Albright took
the case to the Court of Appeals in order to test the correctness of
the ruling of the lower couit and the validity of the said election, and
the Court of Appeals affirmed the ruling of the lower court. It is
contended by the defendants in this action that said action and the
judgment entered therein is a bar to the prosecution of this one.
The defendants are unquestionably right in this contention this has
tlways been the law. It may work a hardship in some instances,
but the principle is right, because if this were not the law litigants
would never know when a legal controversy was ended. Our Court
ot Appeals has bad this same question before it more than once and
this high judicial tribunal has universally held to this doctrine. In
the case of Locke v. The Commonwealth, 113 Ky., 858, the Court in
passing upon a similar question said:
"The rule is elementary that, when a matter 4is litigated,
parties are required to bring forward their whole case, and
'the plea of res-ad judicata applies not only to the points upon
which the court was required by the parties to form an opin
ion and pronounce judgment, but to every point which properly
.belonged to the sujeel of litigation, and which the parties,
exercising reasonable diligence, might have brought forward at
the time.' Davis v. McCorkle, 77 Ky., 746; Williams v. Rog
ers, Id. 776; Harkwick v. Young, supra. The same rule is
laid down in Freeman on Judgments, Section 249.''
The court in the Locke case above cited had before it a question
very similar to the one involved in this action, and further along in
the opinion used this language:
"Whether the petition for the election was properly filed
and the election regularly ordered was a ground of contest and
should have been presented in the contest proceeding. The
judgment in that case is none the less effective because all the
grounds of contest which existed were not presented."
Upon the authority of the Locke case I will be compelled to sus
tain the plea of res-adjudicata in the case at bar, and to hold that the
former action brought by Albiight is a complete bar to this action.
Aside from this, it seems tome that there is another question
ng in this case that completely settles it. $his suit was brought
o contest the bond election. It is the same sort of an action that was
instituted in the McCreary County case, contesting the election held
there to locate the county seat of that county, some time ago. The
courts held that for want of statutory authority, no contest ot that
election could be maintained. The Court of Appeals so held in the
case of Wilson v. Whitley. Ky. I59 Ky., 69, and in deciding that case
used the following language:
"This is an election contest pure and simple. No other
question or rights are involved It is the established doctrine
in this State that courts of equity have no inherent power
to try contested elections, but can only exercise such power
where it has been conferred by express enactment or nec
essary implications therefrom. Pflanz v. Foster, I35 Ky., I5;
Harrison v. Stroud, 110 S. W., 828; Patterson v. Knapl25 Ky.
47I. In many other jurisdictions the same rule is followed:
McCreary on Elections, 3rd Ed., Sec. 35 1; 15 Cyc. 394; 10 Am.
& Eng. Encyc, 816; Markert v. Snmpter County, 53 South
ern, 013."
The law authorizing the holding of bond elections in this State
makes no frovisiousfora contest, and according to the authority of
che Wilson case, supra, I am constrained to hold and do hold that a
contest on the bond election was unauthorized and cannot be main-
ained.
It is the po'icy of the courts, and has always been, to uphold
Itctions unle-s they are permeated with fraud sufficient to make it
n possible to ascertain the will of the voters, and the evidence of
"ch fraud must be of the most positive character. The Court ol
.ppeals in the latecaseof McAuliffe v. Helm, 157 Ky., 635 said:
id
SrGlfeeLGl
. V
trismg
"The result of said election thus obtained, should not be
set aside for light or trival reasons, and the evidence upon
. which it is now sought to invalidate said order, should be posi
tive and convincing."
The Court further ajong in this opinion said:
"According to my view, the court must in any question
of doubt and, 'uncertainty as to disputed facts resolve that
doubt infav'pr 0, rather than against the legality or validity of
theelcction. It is the settled policy of the law to'uphotd elections
for reasons that scarcely admit of arguement."
For the reasons above given I have reached the conclusion that
the contestants have failed to make out a case that would authorize
the Court to set aside the election.
B. J. BETHURUM,
Judge 28th Judicial District.
State oTOhio, City ot Toledo,
Lucus County, ss.
Frank J. Cheney makes oath
that he Is senior partner of the
firm of F. J. Cheney & Co., doing
business in the city of Toledo,
county and state aforesaid, and
that said firm will pay the sum of
One Hundred Dollars for each and
every case of catarrh that cannot
be cured by the use of Hall's Cat
arrh Cure. F. J, Cheney.
Sworn to before me and sub
scribed in my presencs, this 6th
day of December A. D. 1886.
A. W. Gleason,
(Seal)-. , Notary Public!
Hall's Catarrh Cure is Jtaken in
ternally and acts thru the blood
on the mucous, surfaces of the sys
tem. Serrd'fortestirrionials free.
F. J. Cheney & Co., Toledo, O.
SoldbylalWroggists, 75c
HaU'sFamily Pills for constipation
"SOME"
The origin of the word "some"
as a slang adjective of a nonde
script degree, is attributed to the
United States, but as a matter of
fact, its use in this special sense
is as old as the Lancashire dialect
It frequently occurs in tho works
of all the classic writers of the
County Palatine from Tim Bob
bin to the present day. "By
Gum! it wur some cowd," exclaim
one .Edwin Waugh's best-known
characters, and you'll never meet
a Lancashire lad or lass to whom
the word "some" does not signi
fy far more than any ordinary su
perlative. "Aw'm some fond of
thee, ma lass!" No lad could say
more than that
"KTR. and Mrs. Walter Smith, of
Crab Orchard, have the sym
pathy of their many friends here
in.the recent death of their infant
son, which occured Wednesday
of last week. The child showed
no signs of being sick Tuesday
night, but they found it dead
early Wednesday morning The
funeral took place in the family
burying ground near their home.
J. W. Kincer, Railway Mail
Clerk, of Ashland, was here dur
ing the weeK with relatives. J.
hi. Owens and son, Claud, and
Mrs. W. J. Owens, were at Crab
Orchard last week on account of
the death of the little son of Mr.
and Mrs. Walter Smith. Profess
ors J. O, Scroggins and S. E.
Chandler held anexamination here
last Friday and Saturday in which
some fifteen out-of-town pupils
participated. This examination
was to determine the fitness of the
pupils to enter high school here.
Among those taking the examina
tion were Misses Ruby Houk,
josie Osborne, and Selby Payne,
and Willie Sams, Arthur Dodd,
Joe Hall, Colmar McCall, Cecil
and Gilbert Hayes, Thomas and
Sam Albright, Ted Chandler and
Charlie Smith. All applicants
passed the test and as a result
will be given free tuition. Mrs.
vV. L. Richard returned to her
home in Mt. Vernon, Saturday,
after spending a few days with
Mr. and Mrs. A.T. Furnish here.
Prof Warren Keith was in
Lexington, Saturday and Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs, Lester Hilton, of
Stanford, were the guests of her
parents, Mr. aud Mrs. J. R. Cass,
last week. W. H. Lynch, ol
Louisville, was here last week tc
close the trade with C. T. Riddle '
for bjs- Mairi street property.
Mr. Riddle will have some.repair
ing done on this property right
away and then move his family to
it. Mrs. Nannie Ray, of Lancas
ter, Mrs. Bunch Ray and Harri
son Ray, of Buckeye, Garrard
county, were with their sister,
Mrs. Larkin Hicks, last week.
Mrs. Hicks, who his a serious at
tack of pneumonia, is improving
rapidly, no-v. Mr. and Mrs. Wal
ter Smith, oi Crab Orchare, were
with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. J.
M. Owens, during the week. J.
Thos. Cherry, the hustling Crab
Orchard merchant, was here
Monday to deliver the deed to
Barnes & Shafer for the store
houses and lot recenrly purchased
of him. The Rev. H. T. Young,
of Mt. Vernon, was in our city
Monday on business. Mrs. John
H. Ward, of the Hiatt section, died
Sunday aftet a short illness of
grip and a complicatien of troubles
Dr. W. E. Gravely is having a
new light plant installed in his
big Main street store this week".
Mrs, Ben F. Cummins died at her
home near Maretburg, Sunday
night, after a few days' illness of
pneumonia. Mr. Cummins and
one daughter also has pneumonia.
Miss Ada Ward is assisting in
the post office here at present.
The Rev. L. N. Bowling, of near
London, was here Wednesday
looking out a location, and will
likely move his family here with
in the next few weeks. Mrs. W.
G. Adams received painful injur
ies the first of the week as the re
sult af a fall. Several ribs were
broken and otherwise injured.
Uncle Tom Frith is very sick this
wees, and his recovery is consid
ered very doubtful. Cashier A.
M Hiatt was in Mt. Vernon,
Monday, on business. Barnes &
Shafer are filling their new store
with goods, and in a few days
wjll have a full line of general
merchandise that they propose to
offer to the public at lowest prices
for cash. John Robins purchased
from W. D. Cummins last week
the old J. E. Woodyard home
stead. Mr. Cummins will likely
remain in town for several months
on account of the school.
OMlcIreii Cry
FOR FLETCHER'S
CASTORIA
SOMETHING OOOD.
Those wno hate nasty medioines
should try Chamberlain's Tablets
for constipation. They are pleas
ant to take and their effect is f o
agreeable and so natural that you
J will not realize that it has been
produced by a medicine. Obtain
I able everywheie,
3
