Fulton county trie
UNE
f
I
1 r
V
VOL XXXII NO 43
IMPflBM ftPPDINTMEHT
Ir. E. II. Rorick of Fayette Made
Member of Board of Administration
Qualifications and Efficient Ser
vice Record Won Appointment
Board Controla Eighteen State Institutions.
Dr. E. II. Rorick of Fayette, was
N appointed a member of the State
Hoard of Administration by Gover
nor Willis Monday. This board man
ages and controls the eighteen state
institutions which includes the hos-
; pital for the Insane, epiliptics, the In
stitution lor the reeble Minded, the
pet.ntiarv. intfoi'mator imt fh
boys and girls industrial schools. The
pay roll of the employees under their
control amounts to more than a mil
linn and one half dollars annually.
The total sum to be expended annual
ly by this board is nearly five mil
lion dollars.
The State Board of AdminBstra-
tion is composed of four members, no
more tnan two or which can bplonir to
the same political party. The law
requires that the members of this
board shall live in Columbus and
dpvote thfir entire time to the duties
of the office. So Fulton county for
ine next rour years will lose its genial
Dr. Rorick. The board has in its cus
tody more than 22.000 persons.
There were four aspirants for the
appointment, anions them being: New
ton Miller, one of the governor's in
timate friends and personal advisers
It was Dr. Rorick's qualifications that
won lor him the appointment.
Dr. Rorick has spent many years
of study in the best medical schools
of America and spent one year in
Europe at the leading hospitals study
ing insanity, epileptic and feeble
Minded cases. In practicing his Dro.
fpsson here he was a very successful
physician
For nine years Dr. Rorick served
a superintendent of the State Hos
pital at Athena, where he made a
rcord for economy and efficiency
. .that attracted the attention of the
State. In one of the issues of the
Ohio State Journal appeared a large
pture with the words below it, "The
wstch dog of the State treasury."
From Athens Dr. Rorick went to
Columbus, where he became superin
tndent of the Institution for the
Feeble Minded, which position he held
fr two years winning -much praise
loe efficient service.
To be an efficient member of the
St.ite Board of Administration re
nuires more than possessing the
knowledge of how to properly treat
and care lor the unfortunates intrust
ed to its care, important as that is. it
requires that the member possess
executive and financial ability in a
marked degree. Dr. Rorick' meets all
these requirements and Gov. Willis
is to be congratulated upon this ap
pointment It is the State of Ohio
tht is being served,
jdUor, County i-i.
14
PIKE LECTURE COURSE.
The Fourth Number of the Pike
Lecture Course will be held at Beu
lah church Saturday evening Feb
ruary 6th. Dr. Frank . Bohn noted
author, lecturer and investigator will
speak on "New Jobs and Old Ideas."
Dr. Bohn will bring to us a lecture
that has grown out of earnest study
from the great school of experience.
Few men of his age have touched
American life in more ways than
he. As laborer, teacher, soldier and
scholar he has gathered first hand
the matured which you will hear in
his great lecture. Friends, this course
is intended to instruct as well as to
entertain. We respectfully ask for
your co-operation.
COMMITTEE.
Court House News Fox The Week-
Cases in Probate Court Marriage
Orders Drawn on , Treasury New
Cases in Common Pleas Court.
Largest Growth in History in Past
Year Of the One Hundred Mil
lion Americans, Approximately For
ty Million are Now Church Members.
According to figures announced by
the Federal Council of Churches, the
churches of the United States, irre
spective of denomination, enjoyed the
greatest growth in their history dur
ing the past year. The report indi
cates that of the one hundred million
Americans, approximately forty mil
lions are church members. The growth
of the best known religious bodies in
1915 was as follows: Baptist, North,
1310; Baptist South, 112,804; Catho
lics; Eastern Orthodox, 5,000; Catho
lics, Roman, 259,426; Congregational
ists. 18,274; Evangelicals, 14,962;
Methodists. Protestants, 20,728;
Methodist, South 66,328; Presbyter
ians North, 56,200; Presbyterians, 5,
431; Presbyterians, South, 21,737;
Protestants, Episcopal, 25,648; Re
formed in America 3,704; Reformed,
in United States, 7,779; United Bre
thren. 38,343: Universalists, 3,000.
The report notes that the Lutherans
suffered a loss of 10,786. The pre
sent membership of the organizations
named follows: Baptists, North, !,
252.633; Baptists, South, 2,705,121;
Catholics, Eastern Orthodox, 467,500;
Catholics, Roman, 14,049,068; Congre
gationalists, 771,362; Disciples of
Christ. 1,363,100; Evangelicals, 205,
255; Friends. 120,712; Lutherans, 2,-
434,186; Methodists, North, 3,657,594;
Methodists, Protestants, 201,110;
Methodists South, 2,072,305; Presby
terians. North, '1,434,00(1; fredb
terians South, 332.339; Protestants,
Episcopal 1.040,896; Reformed in
America, 126,847; Reformed in Unit
ed States, 320,459; Unitarians. 70,542;
United Brethren, 360,387; Universa
lists, 55,000.
RELEASED FROM
CANADIAN ARMY
Dell Johnston, of Delta, has been
released from the Canadian army,
(through the efforts of Representative
Probate Court
Estate of Austin K. Ford. 2nd par
tial account confirmed.
Estate of Clara Clifton. 2nd nar-
tial account confirmed.
Guardianship of Josetoh Snvder.
2nd partial account confirmed.
Emery S. Fox. as administrator W.
W. A. vs William H. Seward, et al.
pplication to sell real estate at pri
vate sale filed and granted. Report
of sale filed and confirmed. Deed
ordered.-
Guardianship of Fannie M. T.iVihel
final account filed. Hearing February
28th, 1916.
Guardianship of James H. Oaimnn
inventory filed.
lheodore W. Kmeht. as executor
vs Mary F. Perkins, et al, sale of real
estate found necessary to pay debts,
appraisements confirmed. Bond found
sufficient. Ordered to sell real es
tate at private sale filed and granted.
oaie reported and confirmed,
Will of David M. Mock, application
ior proDate nied. No
and next of kin issued
for Februarv 3rd. 1916. one n. n, that there will remain lifelong sweet
Will of Mary Russell, deceased, memories.
testimony of witnesses taken and will Ann Elizabeth Woolverton, was
admitted to probate and record. Iborn at Lodi, Seneca County, New
restate of Myron Whitehome, hear-l York, June 17th, l44. sne was
ing continued to February 26th. 1916. baptised in the German" Reformed
nine a. m. . church at Lodi, when an infant.
Estate of Mary M. Dinius. Inven-I fin KnvpmW 1st. 1846. she with
torv and appraisement filed. her parents arrived at Sandusky, Ohio
Estate of Mary Flogaus, report of where they settled on a farm they
sale of note filed and confirmed. boueht between Sandusky and Milan
truardianship of Christian Ruf- near Union Corners. In the Spring
b inventory nieo. 0f 1859. they moved nearer Sandusky
Will of Catharine Schad. deceased, and in 1861 purchased a farm out Col
Hearing held and said will admitted
to probate and record. hntn Snndiisltv and from this noint
Estate of Phoebe Helwig. first Par-lfViov wqpIkiH ilia fnfa of Snrulnfilcv
Mai account filed. Hearing set for during the trying days of the Civil
February 28th. 1916. - WaP. Tn i8fi6 tnev transferred their
Estate of Alfred L. Newton, first ;,ofe
and hnal account filed. Hearing Feb- lion. Ohio, where' she and her sister
ruary 28th. 1916.
Will of Mason A. Durkee. anolica,
tion for probate filed. Hearing- set
ior epruary llth, 1916, one p,
Notices to next of km issued.
This is one of the most important N- E. Mathews, of the Fifth District
positions in the State and Fulton l he Canadian government was snown
county is to be congratulated that she Ith? by w" on,y eighteen years
could produce a citizen who could ' 0,d when he enlisted m the Seventieth
measure no so well to all the require
ments. The salary of the office was
reduced by the past legislature from
$5,000 to $4,000 a year and expenses.
Sciatica's Piercing Pain.
To kill the nerve pains of Sciatica
you can always depend on Sloan's
Liniment. It penetrates to the seat
of pain and brings ease as soon as
it is applied. A great comfort too
with Sloan's is that no rubbing is
required. Sloan's Liniment is invalu
able for stopping muscular or nerve
pain of any kind. Try it at once if
you suffer with Rheumatism, Lum
bngo, Sore Throat, Pain in Chest,
Sprains, Bruises, etc. It is excellent
for Neuralgia and Headache. 25c at
all Druggists.
Overseas Battalion, and that he was
A native of Ohio-. He fcfid 'represent
ed that he was a native of Canada
and that he was of age. Johnston's
relatives were very much afraid that
he would be sent to fight in the Euro
pean trenches.
WAUSEON REAL ESTATE.
Modern eight room house nearly
new with two acres of land, good
residence location.
Two fine improved building lots.
excellent location. Inquire at Tn
bune office. 41-tf
For the big and little burns in
cooking and baking, keep Hanford's
Balsam of Myrrh near for quick re
lief.
r
i
1
Its Influence on Business Has a Sinister Effect
The Real Cause of the Continual
Rise on Most All Dry Goods
Summed Up in One
Sentence.
The reason for the increased cost of most materials is directly
due to the increased consumption and decreased production and
consequent shortage thereof, owing to the huge European falliacy.
Since this Institution is a Public Utility, we endeavor to be
friends with Community and advise all friends and costumers,
give them the benefit of our findings, such as, "The Prices are Go
ing up and to Buy Early as a Protection to Yourselves." And just
the minute we mention this foresaid fact, some are wont to think
we arei unfair, and confront us with this statement: "That's just
what drives us out of town to buy our merchandise, prices are al
ready to high, then to mention they are going higher?"
It is Our Purpose to Expose The
Real Tenure of Our Institution
at All Times
The point that we do make clear and decisive is, that we are
not in business merely for a pecuniary consideration, neither just
for fun. but because it is ligitimate, honorable and just.
And before we make a statement we investigate its authencity
and set accordingly.
Quality
These are Our Noticeable, Impelling and
Indispclling Assets
Reliability Prices
That are
Consistent Reasonable
Not Deceptive -
The Sign of The Square
Spencer-Edgar-Vollmer Co., Inc.
I Wauseon s Only Lxclusive Dry Goods Store
WAUSEON, OHIO, FRIDAY FEBRUARY 4 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
LIBRARY STORY HOUR.
Both a meeting of the school li
brary club and a story hour for lit
tle children will be held at the pub
lic library this coming Saturday afternoon.
The school library club, which will
be for pupils from the fourth to eighth
Licenses Real Estate Transfers 1 grades, inclusive, will be lead by Miss
Norma Whiteman who will tell stories
about Lincoln illustrating her talk
by the use of crayon. The club will
meet at three o'clock.
Miss Drennan will be the story
teller for the children from kinder
garten age to those in the third grade,
inclusive. Miss Drennan will tell
stories about France. The story hour
will begin at 2:15 o'clock.
PRESIDEHTIftL PRIMARY
Law Governing Primary Delegates
and Alternates at Large to National
Convention to be Chosen by Direct
Vote of the Electors 1916 Primary
Last Tuesday in April.
BEAUTIFUL LIFE ENDED
Mrs Anna Houseman Succumbed to
Paralytic Stroke at Home of Her
Daughter Mrs. Samuel Ruppert on
January 27th Burial in Swanton
Monday Afternoon.
In the passing of Mrs. Anna House
man a beautiful life has gone out, a
life beautiful indeed for its cheer
fulness, and patient endurance, not
only in her last illness, but during
the years of her invalid life, when
Notice to widow those wh? came ? coci withiher
Hearing Set l? .f impress wiui iier imtuic
Following is the section which
authorizes the Presidential Primary:
section 4954. At the primary
election, which shall be held on the
last Tuesday in April in the year 1916
and similarly in every fourth year
thereafter, delegates and alternates
at large to the national conventions
of the different political parties shall
be chosen by direct vote of the elec
tors in the manner prescribed in this
chapter for the nomination of candi
dates for State offices, and candi
dates for election as delegates and al
ternates to such convention from
districts within the State shall be
chosen by direct vote of the electors
the manner prescribed in this
chapter for the nomination of candi
dates for district offices. Each per
son seeking to be elected as delegate
or alternate to such national conven
tion shall file with his declaration of
candidacy and certificate, a state
ment in writing signed by him in
which he shall state his first and sec
ond choice for nomination as candi
date of his party for the Presidency
of the United States, and the State
Supervisor of Elections Shall not
permit any declaration of candidacy
and certificate of a candidate for
election as such delegate or alter
nate to be filed unless accompanied
by such statement in writing; PRO-
VIDING ALWAYS. HOWEVER,
THAT THE NAME OF NO CANDI
DATE FOR THE PRESIDENCY
SHALL BE SO USED WITHOUT
HIS WRITTEN CONSENT. The
name of such first and second choice
for nomination as candidate for the
Presidency of each candidate for elec
Marriage . Licenses.
Karl E. Staehline. 28. cashier. Chi
eagd, 111., and Kathryn F. Waltz, 22,
ueita. vmo. Kev. u. A. Price, offi
ciating. . ' .
Homer T,. Mann 93 fnni, bhore
Nora B. Fleming. 21, both of Delta agent at Swanton, Ohio,
owned a millinery and dressmaking
establishments.
Tn the summer of 1862 she united
with the Presbyterian church in San-
dnskv and on moving to Vermillion
transferred to the Congregational
church of that nlace. She was mar
ried in Vermillion June 'L6, 18 iv, to
Frank-W. Houseman of Sandusky,
who was then employed bv the Lake
Railway Company as their
rney pur-
Ohio, Rev. Geo. Whitlock, officiating' chased an acre of land near the
r ouiuvan u. nrown, 44, blacksmith, -
Lyons, and Mary J. Dull, 41. Swan- home on November 21st, 1870. She
ton, Ohio. Rev. Martha Moore offi- transferred to the Methodist church
ciatinsr. 'at Swanton, and was as active m
I cnurcn wors as sne naa ueeii m me
New Cases Filed. former places. At the time when she
Chas. Turnev and Wilson Mwra I received her severe fall in 1886 when
vs William Reichhardt. action tn rp-1 she became an invalid for a dozen
pievm certain team of horses. years she was cnonster m ounaay
Nora L. Howe vs Herman T. Howe. School, taught a class and sang in the
5 . .. 'I.. . . i
acnon ior Divorce ana alimony. 1 choir in cnurcn service.
' . . ' 1 - ' , I Three cnilaren Diessea inerr iiume.
Real Estate Transfer. Mrs. Samuel RuDDert of Wauseon
T. & I. Ry. Co. to Jennie TCpIW Ohio: Mrs. J. L. Modlin of Litchfield.
Monroe, lot 25, Donnelly's addition, Illinois and Mrs. H. D. Campbell of
Wn,.nAAM : - M . -n 1 !: TT 1 1 .3
niuaeuu, uuiu, r ruit xuuge, iviicnigan. ncr iiusuuuu
Mathew J . Dangler as admini- left her for the great beyond on April
strator Phoebe Helwig, deceased, to 15th, 1888, and she so much appre
Conrad Haas, lot 38. Oritrinal Plat ciated the kindness of her Swanton
TIT .. r nr- r r ' I . . 1 1 1 A. 1 1 1 4-L.
n Buseun, unio. souu. i zrienas wnen sne was uaiumg im
. George D. Reed and wife to Floral severe bodily pain and praying that
J. Wilson. Quit claim deed, lot 182, she might live for the sake of her
Wauseon, Ohio, S400. daughters. Her two grandchildren
Delta Buildinz & Real Estate C.n Bruce and Juva Campbell were
Case to W. H. Lambert lot ereat comfort to her in her later days
accepted Plat Oakwood, Delta, Ohio, and she daily praised the Lord for
SI. v - health and strength given her. She
Delta Buildimr & Real Fatjito had about recovered from an attack
to W. H. Lambert, lot 21. nnapppnteH of bronchitis since Christmas, when
m x -v i I i i i t
riai, uaicwooa addition, Delta, Ohio, he naa a severe stroKe on January
9 . i zist, wnicn proveu laiai aim ane pasa-
Delta Building & Real Estate Co. ed to her heavenly rest at 11:25 p. m
to w. rl. .Lambert, lots 19 and 20, un- on January zvtn, iio, oeing seventy
accepted Plat. Oakwood addition ni. one years, seven months and ten day!
ta. , I old. Her great patience, which was
Chas. Grime and wife to G. W Mvers always manifested in her long ill
parts lots 2. 3 and 4. Dennler'a arfrii. ness proved her help in her last ill
tion, Archbold, Ohio, $2800. I ness and never a more peaceful death
frank Schmite and wife to Edgar WBS witnessed.
Franklin. 30 acres, section 1A Am. I Funeral services were held on Mon.
boy township, $5500. I day; a short service being conduct-
Wm. U WJckham ajid wife to ed by Kev. u. f. noirman, at tne rcup
Laura Peterson. acre lanH Mota. nert home at 12:30 immediately after
mora, Ohio, $500. which the remains, accompanied by
Georsre R. Forrester to Jos T.. Per. her family and friends were taken
kins, lots 61 S. L. Sanderson's fith an. to Swanton where services were held
Qition, Swanton. Ohio. $375. at tne jvi; tx. cnurcn conducted Dy ner
H. B. Richardson to D. E. Corbin. former pastor Rev. C. R. Davenport,
25 acres land, section 29. Swan Creek of McComb, Ohio, assisted by Rev.
townshiD. $1. Holt, present pastor of the M. E.
Ella B. Hurd to Oliver W. McT.anp 1 church in Swanton Interment in
lot 12, D. W. Howard's addition, Wau- Swanton cemetery.
seon, ?6UU.
my political party in the State of
Ohio, that, if elected as (alternate)
(delegate) to their national party
convention, I shall, to the best of my
judgment and aoiaty, support that
candidate for President of the Unit
ed States who shall have been select
ed at this primary by the voters of
my party in the manner provided in
this chapter as their candidate for
such office."
For signature of candidate for (al
ternate (delegate.
SCHOOL READING TABLE
Magazines and Papers Which Should
be Selected for Rural School Read
ing Table What Dowell School
Has to Say on The Subject Point
ers for Other Schools.
Having received some inquiries on
the subject of a school readine table
and thinking that perhaps there are
more teachers in the county who are
interested in this phase of rural edu
cation I will answer in a general wav
through the Tribune which seems to
be a widely read school paper.
The Dowell School has received
many letter from other schools. We
have always answered them giving
tne mi or mat ion desired whenever
possible. We enjoy this work and it
makes a very practical language les
son. '
The schools seem to be at a loss
when it comes to selecting magazines
and periodicals for a reading table.
The cost is of course the first thing
to be considered. Suppose you have
say $5.00 to invest in this phase of
school work. We Would suggest the
following. First the pupils should
be taught to become interested in
rt.Slw. rZ;;S Sin local affairs"' to familiarize themselves
tion as such delegate or alternate shall. nnm. ' ,jH,- anA mfo a
course the home. county paper should
be printed and appear on the primary
ballots immediately below the name b first on the list. TecondTou
to dearlv disclose the nreferene of ?"uum paper or magazine 01
ISff f.a ?5!?ff'nterest t0 children and that is clean
each candidate Each candidate f or ; and wholesome. I would suggest "The
election as such delegate or alternate , Youths Companion." Third you should
may also file along with his i declar- LWe a Za fa f fjt "
ation of candidacy and certificate a b and irlg h w fc j
statement m writing signed by him m 'j ;Z t ' V "? ' v.
the following form: in ,tn. nllPTO Av. a nnA
Statement of candidate for election ! questions for the floriculture place
as (alternate) (delegate) to the (here . There is a host of good farm papers!
Choose, one that is an "Ohio" paper.
Do not forget the bovs and eirls in
I hereby declare to the voters of ! the beginning classes and for them
PRESTIGE I
II II When a check is received bearing I I
11 I the name, "First National Bank", it I
II carries with it prestige and the re- II II
III cipient knows the maker of the check II'
. has sound banking connections. ' . I
ll i In offering the services of this bank, I I
I II we are placing at your disposal bank- ( II
j v ing relations that must reflect to your 1 II II
I II . advantage in all your business : . ' U
I II . dealings, which is prestige. '. . J
- First National Bank I
"The BANK-BY-MAIL BaA" i I
Wauseon, - - - - , Ohio J
there is no ' better magazine than
"Little Folks." I am rather doubtful
about a daily. The dailies are prone
to point much sensational stuff that
does not "fit in" with school work.
This list will cost about $5.00 that
we are supposing you have to invest
in a reading ' table. Of ' course your
magazine should come m the name
of the school and if you haven't a
sch( j1 mail box, a part of your money
should be invested in one.
We have three complete sets of
we would be glad to correspond with
you on the subject. -
Next week "The School Library."
GOSSIP OF FASHIONS.
In the communication to The Tri
bune this week, Mrs. Bottomley, our
fashion adviser, describes "a naive
and pretty crepe frock" for young
women who are in business life and
must dress attractively but economi
cally at all times. There is also a de-
latest method ox
insert name of political party)
tional convention.
scription of the
supplementary readers for the Third dressing a little girl's hair for par-
(irade and if there is a school in su- ty occasions. Uotn descriptions
perintendent Jay's district who would
be willing to exchange a set of these
sets "Dramatic Readers" for one . of
these sets of "Third Grade Readers"
illustrated with halftone pictures.
; ,
Always keep1 Hanford's Balsam on
hand for accidents.
1 '
OUR BIG
Annual Discount Sale!
i . -. ' .... ' - .
- - - - " . - , . ' ,! .. . v ' - - .............
of Furniture and Rugs
Begins Tomorrow, Saturday, Feb. 5th
and will continue one week, Feb. 5 to 13
Only once a year do we make a regular discount sale throughout our stock of FURNITURE and RUGS but at this
annual sale we 'make it pay you to buy. No special "picked-up stuff" to offer at cut prices, but you have our entire stock of
good clean merchandise from which to make your selections. Every piece of furniture and every rug will carry a discount
price from 10 to 25 percent from our regular prices.
Alva Crew and wife to Oliver W.I
McLain, small parcel land, section 23,
vim ion lownsnip, tsuu.
Jennie Keller Monroe to T. & I.
WARNING TO FARMERS.
The prosperity of this community
is very seriously threatened. Men
familiar with the situation give warn
Railway Co., small parcel land, Don- hng that there will be a very short
nelly's addition, Wauseon. Ohio. SI.
tred Weatherby and wife to C. J.
corn crop, with thousands of dollars
lost to our farmers, if great care is
eecK, 10 acres, section 28, Koyalton not taken in selecting and testing the
.uwuouip, vow. Dest matured seed corn for this sea
son's planting.
Warrants Drawn- I In order to heln our farmer friends
Henry Puehler, ditch work. .$ 12.00 in the only way we can help them in
T. H. Fraker. Fair Board... 478.28 this matter, we are nrintintr in this
E. F. Chase, Sunt, half Sal. 70.83 issue of The Tribune a sDecial illu-
W. Pugh, redemption 4.38 strated article which thoroutrhlv
Peoples State Bank 22.50 covers the subject.
Nellie Hetzel, M P 7.00 This article describes the danger,
Arthur Ranger, Royalton twp 500.00 tells what has brought it about, offers
H. Cartridge, adv. draw Chest- a remedy (or a preventive) in tested
erneld school 500.00 seed corn, and shows the farmer how
Earl Woolace, same Gorham 2000.00 to make the test at no expense. Be
W. O. Stoltz, same Franklin 1000.00 cause we want to see everyone of our
S. M. Stevens, same Dover. 800.00 country friends simply bulging with
W. A. Tappan, same Pike .. 1000.00 prosperity now and all the time we
M". J. Linehan, same Fulton. 800.00 uree them to turn to "Be Sure To
Geo. H. Haynes, same S. C. 2000.00 Test Seed Corn." and read it careful-
W. C. Hoch, same York 3000.00 ly.
Earl Wilson, same Clinton.. 3000.00
Adolf Fagley, same German. 4000.00
A. T. McComb, same Delta.. 2500.00
G. H. Crane, same Fayette.. 1500.00
G. R. Ackerman, same S. C.
schools 2000.00
Lyons Commercial Bank, Royal-
ton twp. school 1000.00
First Nat'l. Bk, Chesterfield 3000.00
Farmers State Bk, Gorham
WILL IMPROVE AND EXPAND.
The Ohio Gas, Light & Coke Com
pany will expend $5,400 on improv
ing their Wauseon plant this coming
Spring. The company was authoriz
ed last week, by the State Public
Utilities Commission to increase its
2500'00 caDital stock from $250,000 to $500,-
AfiA fPI 1 1 ?j 1 -ii
Fayette State Bk. Franklin. . 1200.00 " e
First Nat'l. Bk., JJover 500.00 7 u"i . v i """"V"
Farmers & Merchants Bk, ln th,s Je?r' whlle the balance will
Fulton 2500.00 ue "l'" improvements on me
Same, Swan Creek 2000.00 var.uus p.a.ius at iapoieon, iviont-
"i f J "j mi vc auu bins iai.rj
Farmers St. Savings Bk, York 2500.00
Farmers & Merchants Bk.
German 3000.00
Peoples Savings Bk, Delta.. 3000.00
First Nat'l. Bank, Wauseon. . 8000.00
Farmers State Bk.. Fayette. . 1500.00
Farmers & Merchants Dept. Co.
The constant increase in the con
sumption of gas by the patrons has
made these improvements necessary.
FOSTER-GEORGE.
On Monday at noon, January 31st,
Swanton 1000.00 Mr. Leon C. George and Miss Georgia
Home Savings Bk, Metamora 1000.00 D. Foster were united in marriage at
the Christian church parsonage bv the
For Lame Back- pastor Rev. J. A. Wharton. Both
Use Hanford's Balsam of Myrrh for bride and groom are from' Delta,
a lame back. Rub it on and rub it in where they are well known. They
thoroughly. One good application at expect to take a wedding trip in a
first is worth several light ones. couple of weeks and will then be at
i -,i home in Delta. The good wishes of
We sell Myer's fresh bottled milk, their many friends are extended to
ii. j. uLLiLn x duii. them.
Kitchen Cabinets
At our Big Discount Sale
$ 1 3.75. $18.75, $21.75,
$24.75 on up to $29,75.
Why pay more?
Buffets
Need one this spring? Our Big Dis
count Sale will help you get it
See the values offered at $ 5.75
to $35.00
How many dollars will you save?
Come and see.
Dressers
Our offerings in Birds-eye Maple,
Mahogany, Circassion Walnut and
Oak will surprise you
$6.95 to $17.75
Worth 1-3 more than you buy them
at our Big Discount Sale.
Wooden Beds and
Metal Beds
all specially priced at our DISCOUNT
SALE. Here's a few
$13. 50 Wood Beds at -" $9,75
$9.50 Wood Beds at . - $6.85
$4.25 Wood Beds at - $3.45
$12.50 Metal Beds at - $9.00
$7.00 Metal Beds at - $5.25
$3. 50 Metal Beds at - $2.19
Vac Sweepers
Now why not have one in your home?
Our Big Discount Sale price will be
$4.89 and every sweeper guaran
teed. Dining Tables
Special values in handsome 8 ft.
quartered oak pedestal tables at our
Big Discount Sale" $25.00 now
$19.75 others $8.75 and up.
Library Tables
This is your chance to get one at our
Big Discount Sale $6.75 an( UP-
Chiffoniers
All kinds of wood you make your
selections at saving from 10 to
30 at our Discount Sale.
Mattresses
We hardly should include these as
prices have gone sky-ward during the
past three months but you buy them
at Discount Prices just the same
$3.00 on UP Save now on mattresses
Odd Dining Chairs
1 2 and 3 of a pattern we will offer
at 33 1-3 regular prices. If you need
an extra chair or two buy at this
Discount Sale.
Dining Chairs ;
Special assortment of all new designs
everyone bearing a Big Discount
Sale price Special values at $,29
to $2,69 each. See them.
Rockers
An endless variety of all kinds. You
will need one or two this spring, why
not buy at our Big Discount Sale. All
prices at a great saving to you.
Bookcases and Desks
Why not save a nice little sum in sel
ecting one at our Discount Sale, . they
are all oak and fine construction.
$13,50 now $ ,75 others at re
duced prices.
Springs
Why not fix up that bed with a new
set, you can afford to at our Discount
Sale prices $,98 an(i UP or a
famed Hercales at $6.08
Pictures
During our Big Discount Sale we
offer a great assortment at 2 3 C eacn
worth up to 75c See the window
RUGS RUGS RUGS
HERE'S WHERE YOU SAVE We will not reserve our rug stock, although hundreds of dollars of new
Spring Rugs have been placed in stock. Special prices all through. Make your selections and make a nice
saving on your spring rugs. ,
One Entire Week, Feb. 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12
We can only mention a few lihes of furniture in this advertisement but remember every article in our
store will bear a discount price. Come any day convenient.
Very Truly - ' 1
IVES-PIKE
QUALITY FURNITURE
COMPANY
WAUSEON, OHIO;
