Register Again!
Do It Now!
VOL. XXV.
LABOR'S ACTIVITIES
PRINTERS HAVE REGULAR
MEETING
Local No. 410, I. T. U., Have Inter-
esting Session Monday
At the regular meeting of the print
ers Monday evening of this week
much business was transacted. Two
new members were initiated, one for
full membership and one for appren
tice membership. J, ('. Wiicox was
elected a member of the executive
committee to fill out the unexpired
term of E. V. Whittaker, resigned.
No. 410 sent a night letter lo Senators
l'oindexter and Jones urging them to
support Brandeis for the appointment
to the supreme court. The secretary
was ordered to send to the Trades
Council the printers' share of the ex
penses of an attorney to Olympia dur
ing the recent water hearing.
No. 410 is going to have a defense
fund similar to the one recommended
by our international officers, if every
thing goes right. The ball was start
ed rolling Monday. It is planned to
raise a fund of $10 per member by
levying an assessment of one-fourth
of one per cent, each month until the
desired sum, about $370, is raised.
The plan will come up for final read
ing and vote at the next meeting.
One dollar was donated to union
butchers in Louisville. Ky., who were
loc'red cut recently by the Bornwasser
Packing Co.
A great ileal of printed matter is
going the rounds in Everett without
the label lately and if any union man
gets any of it, it should be turned
over to some printer. We send them
back to the person or firm issuing it
with a little sticker attached wanting
to know the why and wherefore of
the absence of said label. If you can
put it in an envelope and write the
firm's name on the outside so much
(he better (but leave the envelope un- {
sealed so we can get our "sticker" in
it). We'll furnish the stamp and
grant you a vote of thanks, besides.
Th- > printing business in Everett
is at a low ebb just now: in fact it
has been for some time, some of our
members getting only one day a week.
And one day's wages won't keep the
wolf away very long.
WHY MINERS ORGANIZE
IMTTSTON, Pa.—ln an address to 1
miners in this vicinity, John Mitchell 1
asked this question:
"After a lifetime spent in the coal
regions of the anthracite field, did you
ever hear of a single case where one
man, individually, was able to make
an advantageous agreement with the
coal company?''
The speaker referred to the claim
that the new Pennsylvania workmen's
compensation law "works automatic."
"It will not operate itself," he said.
"To enjoy its benefits workers must
do something to make it effective."
This was only possible through or
ganization, which secured established
wage rates that were later the basis
of compensation awards by the state
board.
WORD "ACCIDENT" DEFINED
MADISON, Wis.—The word "acci-j
dent," as used in the workmen's com- j
pensation law, must he given a broad
and inclusive meaning, rules the state J
supreme court in the case of Bystrom
Bro*. vs. Eric Jacobson. The case
arOM when a mason, in lifting a block
■trained the muscle* of the right side ;
1,1 bis body. The company contended
that this was not an accident within
the meaning of the statute. Justice
Marshal delivered the opinion of the
court. He said that the English and
American authorities quite generally
Igree on the board interpretation of
terms in workmen's compensation
laws and that this court considers the
legislature intended a broad interpre
tation of the word.
LOAN SHARKS OUSTED
DAYTON, O.—The city welfare de i
partmenl reports that 10 loan shark
establishments have been put out of
bua t n eu since the establishment of
,he department's division of legal aid.
in 1914- The division has also given
legal advice to 1.494 persons and aid
ed then, in defense against oppressive
litigation by settling controversies
amicably
Who bears the sordid jeers of cant
and trade; and goes on a hewing for
a far ideal.-He alone is living.
NEWS FROM SNOHOMISH
SHINGLE WEAVERS ELECT O. B.
MORSE PRESIDENT
ganization Includes Three Lakes,
Snohomish and Other Mills
A reorganization of the Shingle
Weavers' union was effected Sunday
afternoon in the Schott's hall. Three
Lakes. Snohomish and mills of this
vicinity sent representatives. The
union, which has about 100 members,
is composed of former members of the
Timberworkers' union and many oth
ers.
The elected officers are O. B. Morse
president; Robert Qruhn, secretary
treasurer; Lee Evans, recording sec
rotary; Jesse Adams, guard; John Ak
ins, guide; Henry Sedgewick, B. Bai
ley and Bob Brown, trustees.
LONGSHOREMEN GAIN
BALTIMORE. —A threatened strike
has resulted in wage increases and
better working conditions for over
4000 longshoremen in this city.
Under the new agreement, both day
land night workers will receive in
crease! of 2y 2 and 7% cents an hour.
I time and one-half on legal holidays,
double time on Sundays, Christmas
! Day, New Year's and July 4.
So-called "shylocking," heretofore
prevalent among foremen, whereby
money was extorted from the men
j under various pretenses, will be abol
' Ished and offenders severely penal
-1 ized.
UNIONISTS ACTIVE
MILWAUKEE.- At its semi-annual
.session the executive board of the
1 Wisconsin state federation of labor
appropriated $2,000 for the purpose
jot" placing organizers in the field for
organization and affiliation work, to
jbe carried on during the next five
' months.
I Label agitation circulars will also
'be sent out. These will urge trade
i unionists to concentrate their energies
toward increasing the use of union la
bel products. Local organizers are
i instructed to call meetings of the rep
jrescntatives of the label trade unions
land organize a local label trades com
mittee. Deputy organizers are in
structed to give this subject special
attention in all localities visited.
HOW COLORADO LAW WORKS
CHICAGO. —At the last session of
the Colorado legislature the state in
dustrial commission was created. One
section of this law provides that em
ployers and employes shall give at
least 30 days' notice before making
any change in working conditions.
The law further provides that in case
the industrial commission is investi
gating a question of this character,
and an employer forces a lockout or
the employes strike, the party or par
ties are guilty of a misdemeanor and
liable to a fine of not more than $100.
Under this act strikes are illegal
until the commission makes its award.
Writing in the Tailor, official mag
azine of the Journeymen Tailors'
union, Organizer Biggs, located in
Denver, expresses this opinion of the
act:
"If the negroes of Tennessee should
, ask for better wages or conditions at
the beginning of the cotton picking
season, and were restrained from en
forcing their demands, and were com
pelled to continue working until the
season was over and the cotton picked
and were then given a hearing on the
reasonableness of their demand, they
would be In much the same position
as are the journeymen tailors of Den
ver, Colo. But, fortunately for the
negroes of Tennessee, they have more
freedom to right their wrongs than
have the journeymen tailors of Den
ver."
MINE HAZARDS REDUCED
COLUMBUS, O. —A report by John
M. I loan, chief mine inspector of the
industrial commission, shows that in
1915 one out of every 758 employed in
the coal mines was killed in mine ac
cidents during the year, or one per
son for every 300,000 tons of coal
mined The total number of fatal ac
cidents in mines during the year was
It, a falling off of nearly two-thirds
since 1913.
Patronize YOUR Advertlaera.
The Labor Journal
Report of President E. P. Marsh
of State Federation of Labor
(Continued from last week)
IMMIGRATION SERVICE ON CANA
DIAN BORDER
A lack of funds with which to work
resulted in a demoralization of our
Canadian border immigration service.
The war was directly responsible for
a heavy influx from Canada, some
coming to escape war service, others
being subjects of governments at war
with Great Britain fleeing from Brit
ish soil, many others driven out of
Canada because of the cessation of
nearly all construction and other in
dustrial projects in the Dominion.
Inspectors were overworked, some
were furloughed, others withdrawn
from the district, at a time when ev
ery available man should have -been
kept at work. Smuggling of Chinese
grew to large proportions, the un
patrolled waters of Puget Sound and
lax inspection on the border rendering
the practice profitable and compara
tively safe.
After months of study of the situa
tion I prepared an exhaustive brief
covering immigration and industrial
conditions generally and forwarded
the same to William B. Wilson, Sec
retary of Labor at Washington, D. C.
I received in reply the following let
ter from Secretary Wilson:
"Your letter of November sth reach
ed me in due course. -4ts contents
have been most carefully considered,
and I wish at the outset of this ac
knowledgment thereof to express my
appreciation of its tone as well as of
the several suggestions therein con
tained which I believe will be of con
siderable aid to the Department of
Labor and the Bureau of Immigra
tion.
"As you arc aware, Mr. John B.
Densmore, the Solicitor for this De
partment and also frequently Acting
Secretary- of Labor, is now in Hie
Northwest, where be will be joined
by Mr. Caminetti, the Commissioner
General of Immigration, and Mr. Jas.
L. Hughes, the Assistant Commission
er of Immigration at Philadelphia, the
said three gentlemen constituting a
commission appointed by me to in
vestigate and report upon the petition
submitted by various Seattle and oth
er concerns for the termination of the
agreement between the Bureau of
Immigration and the Canadian Pacific
Railway and Steamship Company, un
der which Vancouver is a port of en
try for Chinese, and the transfer to
Seattle of all the Chinese business
now handled through Vancouver.
While these gentlemen have not been
specifically instructed to make any
investigation of the general subject
of immigration law enforcement in
the Washington district or on the
Canadian boundary in the Northwest,
I suppose that in the course of their
inquiries they will necessarily learn
considerable with respect to such sub
ject. I am therefore forwarding your
letter to Mr. Densmore with the re
quest that the commission give its
contents careful consideration in con
nection with any other material which
they may incidentally develop bear
ing upon the several propositions dis
cussed by you. In this way the con
tents of your letter will be brought
to the attention not only of Mr. Dens
more but of the other two members
of the commission.
"I might state at this time that the
Department has perfected arrange
meats for furnishing a patrol boat for
service in Puget Sound, and it is hop
ed that such boat will prove of great
aid to the officers In that vicinity in
the breaking up of Chinese and other
smuggling; and that the Department
intends to endeavor to obtain at the
forthcoming session of congress leg
islation under which it can resume
the use of automobiles in the work
of preventing smuggling
"Respectfully,
"WILLIAM B. WILSON.
"Secretary."
Very little, if any, criticism attaches
to the personnel of the immigration
force in this district. Commissioner
Henry M. White of Seattle litis a keen
appreciation of the need of protect
ing American labor by a rigid en
forcement of existing immigration
laws but has been seriously hamp
ered by totally inadequate lack of
funds with which to work 1 have
taken this whole subject matter up
with Senator • Poindexter, who has
promised to aid In the effort to se
cure decent consideration for the
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE . EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
EVERETT, WASH., FRIDAY, JSNTTJtR*. 28, 1916.
.Northwest In the way of legislative
approprial ion,
THE STRUGGLE IN THE TIMBER
INDUSTRY
One of the regrettable features of
the past year has beet; the disaster
that has overtaken the International
Union of Timberworkers, ' A con
densed history of the rise of that or
ganization. its stormy career, the
causes that led to its decline is not
| out of place in this report, as valuable
lessons may be learned therefrom by
the general labor movement.
The organization was horn In 1901
in the city of Everett, the result of
a wage strike among the shingle
weavers of that city. Starting as Lo
cal Union No. 9080, chartered direct
ly from the American federation of
Labor, organization work among the
shingle weavers spread rapidly and
jtwo years later an international union
was formed. From the day of its
birth it was involved In strikes and
lockouts, the great Billiard strike of
lOnfi being one of the hardest fought
battles known in the Northwest. The
men in that industry bore the charac
teristics of their occupation and were
an aggressive, fighting body of men.
In its early history it was marked by
|the Industrial Workers of the world
Ifor conquest and relentless war was
| waged between that element and the
(dement believing in close affiliation
with the American Federation of La
bor. For a period of years no con
vention was held that did not see the
introduction of a resolution advocat
ing withdrawal from the American
Federation of Labor and affiliation
with the Industrial Workers of the
World, and the proposal was always
the center of intense feeling and some
, times acrimonious debate. Never
. successful in dietatin- the policy of
;ithe organization, then teas always a
i strong radical element battering at
their walls from within, ably second
ing the disruption tactics of their fel-j
lows from without.
i Industrial unionism seemed to be
the logical form of organization tor
,the timber industry Here was an in
dustry similar to coal mining, exist-
I ing largely in isolated camps and com
i munition, without the protection af
forded craft unions in industrial cen
ters. The great majority of Umber
workers were unorganized and all ef
forts to organize them along strictly
| craft lines had failed. The instinct
jOf self-preservation si emed to demand
| that the shingle weavers unionize com
jpletely their industry and in 1913 a
; charter was granted by the American
i Federation of Labor covering the en
tire industry. An intensive orgauiza-.'
, tion campaign ensued. Your presi
dent under Instruction of the oonven
j tion gave sixty day- of his time as
sisting the officers of the Timber-
Workers in organization work. Woods
man and sawmill workers joined in
large numbers and every element of
success seemed to be present.
In January, 1914. the international
convention determined upon demand
ing upon May Ist t( lowing, an eight
hour day in the timber industry. The
wisdom of that move will always be
'open to argument It at least seemed
to that convention the wise thing to
do, trusting in the very fundamental
nature of the demand that the pro
gram would appeal :o the thousands
of workmen In the industry as a way
'out of the unemployment situation,
which was growing worse. Unfortu
nately the eight hour program pro
duced a sharp division in the ranks
of the Timberwork. rs. Some believed
it to be too radical a step for newly
organized men to take, others thought
'the pending Initiative measure pro
riding for a universal day of eight
hours should tak. prominence over
industrial action and on that ground
opposed the industrial demand Mill
owners who had previously expressed
themselves favorable to a shorter
workday as a means of solving over
production suddenly changed their
friendly attitude Altogether, the op
position was strong enough to force
an abandonment of the plan for adopt
ing the eight-hour day through Indus
trial action.
Market conditions steadily grew
worse, many mills finding it impossible
'ble to operate except at a loss. This
' class of plants faced one of two fll
-1 ternatives, either to close their plants
1 or reduce wages
•j Everett had been for many years
I the stronghold of the organized Tim
berworkers. It. was the mother local
and the International was framed in
, that city. The organization of saw
mill workers had made greater strides
In Everett than In any other part of
the state. Trouble which threatened
to involve several men In that city
was narrowly averted in 1911. result
of 1915 the shingle mill men declared
Ing from a threatened lockout by the
large milling interests. In the spring
open war upon the union, putting Into
effect a reduction in the wage scale
and posting "open shop" notices. The
shingle weavers refused to compro
mise their wage scale and the battle
was on in that city, quickly followed
lby wage reductions in every part of
j the state. Everett was the storm
center of the fight. Hull pens yvere
erected around the plants, armed
thugs imported as guards, the usual
strikebreaking tactics employed. The
men established a picket line and a
I commissary which for some weeks
'staved off defeat. The tide turned
j against the men with the issuance of
lan injunction against tin 1 local union
i from the superior court. True, the
terms of the injunction were not se
vere, but it had the effect the mill
men wanted. The Injunction did not
prohibit "picketing per so" but it pro
hibited any violence. With a gang
of roughnecks employed by the com
panies, clashes between the men and
the guards were extremely hard to
entirely prevent, though the strike up
until the Injunction was issued was
remarably free from overt acts on the
part of the men. The injunction had
the moral effect it was intended to
have by the employers, it killed the
picket line, making it an easy matter
to bring strikebreakers in at will.
The Everett weavers lost and the re
sult was a general lowering of the
wage scale and a disintegration of the
union movement generally.
The officers of the international or
ganization have done heroic work in
the face of tremendous odds to keep
a semblance of an organization until
market conditions Improved, giving
an incentive for reorganization work
and a restoration of the old union
conditions in that industry. Having
once enjoyed the benefits of organi
zation, it is inconceivable that the
shingle weavers cannot be reorgan
ized when industrial condition! will
permit making the attempt, and I
know 1 speak the mind of this con
vention ih assuring the international
officers of the hearty support of this
federation.
There are a few lessons to he drawn
from tlie struggle in that industry
which 1 am minded to point out at
this time.
LESSONS OF THE TIMBERWORK
ERS' STRIKE
I have touched before upon the ae
tivit'ea of certain extremists within
the organization. This noisy minor
ity was never entirely eliminated At
one period a start was made toward
inaugurating the trade agreement, pol
icy, agreement! being signed up with
something like sixty employers.
Twelve of the Kverett mills worked
under a trade agreement for a period
of eighteen months with fair success,
despite the cmdeness and newness of
the plan within the industry It pro
vided a method for settling disputes
Without the cost and trouble always
ret i 'lant from strik at, Mill men did
not always live up to the strict terms
of the agreement, but neither did the
men. Instead of studying the trade
agreement plan used by many Inter
national!, and with great success, an
element among the weavers constant
ly fought the principle of trade agree
ments and magnified out of all pro
portion violations on the part of em
ployers, minimizing just as flagrant
violations by the men Had the mill
men been willing to have renewed
the agreements in Fverett at the time
of their expiration, it was rendered
impossible by the antagonistic spirit
developed within the union. Syndi
calism" and "direct action" were fav
orite topics of discussion and one
enthusiastic m unber organized a
"military company" within the local
which met for a time to study "mili
tary tactics" Unquestionably this
program had a part in rendering the
movement ineffective to meet the
real test when it came. The organiza
tion was as a lioubc divided against
itself and could not stand
The mill men erred Just as much
(Continued on Page 3)
Fear Economic and
Political Power
The biggest, single fact in the la
bor world that is causing uneasiness
among Die capitalistic interests at
Washington is the movement for the
eight-hour day on the railroads. The
politicians and the bankers know that
the railroad workers are deadly in
(■artiest. They know that together
with their economic power, springing
from their industrial organization,
they have great political power.
At this writing the Brotherhoods
are threatening the railroads with a
piece of radical safety legislation un
less the carriers will meet their de
mands outside of congress.
A report just issued by tlie Bureau
of Labor Statistics on the wages and
hours in the iron and steel industry
is being used by the Brotherhoods to
show that on an average the locomo
tive engineers and firemen work long
er hours than the unskilled laborers
lin the blast furnaces. This compari
son is of especial interest because of
| the movement for shorter hours for
j railway employes and because of the
| fact that hours of labor in the iron
land steel industry have long been rec
ognized as probably more severe than;
lin other basic industries.
Using tabulations from the actual
j payrolls of western railways covering;
t L'O.onn engineers and firemen as the
basis for the data for these railway
j employes, it appears that per cent.
CHILD LABOR BILL AGREED
TO
i WASHINGTON.—Last .Monday the
! house committee on labor recommend-'
ed the passage of the Keating-Owen
child labor bill, which was passed by
the last house of representatives. The
senate adjourned before reaching a
vote on this question.
I In its favorable report of the pres
ent bill, the committee states that
"the only opposition from manufac
turers personally appearing before the,
committee has been from the cotton
manufacturing states of North and
South Carolina. Virginia and Alabama
and the manufacturing associations
of those states have been in the past
opponents before their own legisla
tures of the raising of the age limit
or shortening of the hours of the
working children."
The bill has been continually urged
by the American Federation of Labor
and if passed it would be unlawful to
ship in interstate commerce goods
produced by children under lti in
mines or quarries and by children un
der 14 in factories.
HEART DISEASE INCREASES
WASHINGTON—Deaths from heart
disease are increasing steadily and
deaths from tuberculosis are showing
a decline, reports Director Harris of
the federal census bureau From 1904'
to 1914 the deaths from tuberculosis
in all its forms fell from 200.7 to 146.S
per 1000, the decline being continuous
from year to year This is a drop of
mor • than 25 per cent Trior to 1904.
the ra c bad fluctuated, starting at I
201.9 i 18C0, Even yet tuberculosis
has the f ruesome distinction of caus
ing more deaths annually than any j
other form of bodily illness except
heart disease, and over 4o per cent,
more than all the external causes
accidents, homicides and suicide com
bined Steady decline in the rate
from tuberculosis is ascribed by the
census to a better understand ing of
the laws of health and the necessity
for fresh air.
MOLDERS STRIKE ENDS
WORCESTER. Mass. -The strike
that has been in progress since last
June among iron mo.uers employed at
the plant of the Rice. Barton & Fales
Machines and Iron Company has been
settled It is stated that all strike
breakers will be dismissed, and work
ing conditions improved.
WANT 44 HOUR WEEK
MINNEAPOLIS. The Typographi
cal unions of this city and St. Paul
are in a joint movement to improve
conditions of their Job printer mem
bers The new scale will include de
mands for a 44-hour week and wag*
increases from $21 to $24 a week
Buy Your Supplies
Where You Draw
Your Pay!
By Lucien Saint
■; work over 10 hours per day, J5 per
l j cent, over 12 hours, and 7 per cent
|over 14 hours per day Contrasted
' I with this is the fart that in a number
'of important departments in iron and
| steel making, the percentage of em-
Iployes working over 10, 12 and 14
hours was considerably lower than in
the case of engineers and firemen,
j The practice of requiring men to
! work on long shifts in blast turnaces,
j which received the condemnation of a
■ stockholders' committee of the Unit
-led States Steel Corporation, has been
; railed to the attention of statisticians
I who are Inquiring into the justice of
the. claims of railway employes for
the reports of T'i western railroads
to the Interstate Commerce Commis
sion showed that durmg the 18 months
j from July 1. 1912, to December 81,
I 1913, there were 49,-Mi cases where
engineers and firemen worked for a
I continuous period of 1<; hours or long
er, and over 16 000 cases where they
I worked for a continuous period of
is hours or more. The extraordinary
I situation is thus presented of em
ploying highly skilled men in places
;of great public responsibility under
'conditions which were unmistakably
rondemned by the federal govern
ment, the unions, and by representa
tives of employers for even the most
unskilled and least responsible work
, ers in the iron and steel industry.
NEW PERIL TO WORKERS
i' CHICAGO. —Benzine and wood al
cohol poisoning are the two newest
i tortus of occupational diseases which
will have to be combatted. according
to the annual report of State Factory
Inspector Oscar F. Nelson. Benzine
poisoning occurs among makers and
users of rubber cement In the manu
facture of hats, clothing, leather and
rubber goods Wood alcohol poison
ing Is prevalent among the makers
of certain perfumes, hats, quick dry
ers In paints, and painted china.
As a result of the increase in the
number of occupational diseases the
state factory department has opened
a clinic where employes may come to
receive free examination and have
their cases diagnosed.
MACHINISTS WIN STRIKE
HAMILTON. O -Machinists have
won their strike for shorter hours,
started last October, when 1,060 sus
pended work. Hefore the strike ma
: chinists and machine shop employes
; were working 55hours per week,
j straight time for overtime and little
' recognition of shop committees or the
union The agreement provides for a
' 50-hour week, time and one-half for
' overtime and tin understanding on
the question of shop committees. All
, court cases against the strikers will
Ihe quashed The machinists say they
; will have the eight-hour day nol later
than April 1
MACHINISTS REDUCE HOURS
KANSAS CITY, Mo Organised ma
: chinists have succeeded In establish
. ing an eight-hour day in practically
'every- shop in this city Twenty-eight
shops voluntarily reduced their work
. day from nine to eij;ht hours,
j One firm discharged several active
unionists, who were alleged to be
"incompetent.' although they had
been employed for s number of years
A strike followed this attempt to con
tinue the long hour system
DENY A TEN HOUR DAY
PORTLAND. Ore Because Meat
Cutters' union asked for a ten-hour
day. members of this organization
have been locked out by the associa
tion of their employers la>cbl trade
unionists are assisting the victimized
workers.
As lime rolls on one becomes more
and more convinced that President
Wilson is not trying to run the coun
try tin order to please Colonel Roose
velt.- Chicago Daily News.
LEAGUE NOTES
Owing to the weather the card party
j the 1/eague had planned for this eve
ning has been postponed one week.
No. 50
