HOME EDITION
TODAY'S PRICES
JtJ t 3T ink notes tare Ut I'Ji
kxl ti posos 43' Nailoii-iloH bl .
1 j i aninrammn 4i Bir elUer
TI n - & U irmon quotation "fop
prr Mpa $.fi 50 f.rnln higher Ue
trto h "iady Stock irrtguUr
11 LATHER IOIIECAST.
LI lno and vrt Texa. clondj, warmer,
Saturday, unsettled ew Mexico, fair,
wnrmpr; Arizona, fair wontli, wnow north.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPr FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO, TEXAS. FRIDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 4. 1916.
DELIVERED .T1WIIEKB 60 CENTS A MONTH
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
ERMANY DEFIANT TO UNITED STATES
Sg
V
K
Five Are Known To ' Be
Dead and Several Missing
After Collapse of Roof.
BOMBS REPORTED
CAUSE OF FIRE
Thrilling Rescues Feature of
Great Blaze; Wings and
Library Saved.
iT1 VVA. Ont, Feb 4 Two
I women and three men are
known to have perished In the
mo which swept through ttu central
roition of Cannulas iragnificent par
li iment building Thursday night and
thu morning, destroying the chambers
' f onimonB and senate Several others
i re reported missing and it is feared
they are burned in the ruins
MI night -long firemen police and
"ildiers fought to save the structure
I licv were successful, saving the beau
tiful library building and the east and
nest wings of the main edifice.
The two women who lost their lives
w re Mme llnav, wife of H A Bray of
uebe , and Mme Morm, wife of Louis
Morin of Beauce. Quebec The men
whose bodies ace, ntll burjsd. in the
tebris, are AJphcose Desjardine. o
3 'cm in ion polMeman. Alphonse Des
janllns. his ule,an eroploye--hf jthe
building and Robert Manning, a Walter.
mong those reported missing Is B
J' Un, a member of parliament for
" irmouth, N S Mr Law Is under
stood to have been at the house at the
time the fire broke out and ha not
been seen since.
I B. Laplant, assistant clerk of the
t mmons. is also among those reported
missing
Building Cohered Four Acres.
The uarllument building was rated
as one of the finest Gothic structures
on this continent. It covered four acres
on Parliament hill.
Several persons who were burned or
otherwise hurt are in hospitals today.
me of the most severely injured is
Martin Burrell, minister of agriculture,
who wj bur Bed about the head.
Colonel formed lire Brigade.
CoL John Qurrie. who commanded a
giment of Canadians In the battle of
Kt Jullen In landers, hastily organ
zed a, fire brigade of membeis of the
r liouse and attendants and fought the
" names with lines of hose in the corri
dors but could make no headwav The
1 laze spread so fast that when the Ot
tawa fire department arrived the build
ing was doomed Aid was summoned
from Montreal, but as a sneelal train
with fire apparatus and a company of
'iremcn was leaving that cltv about
midnight the call was countermanded.-!
Description of Untitling.
The parliament building included a
.entral building with two wings. In all
4"0 feet in length, with a tower 220
fe t high and a library building in the
i ear
It was erected In 186S, was of cream
olored sand stone, on a bluff rising
ijO feet above the Ottawa river.
Fire Sot Incendiary.
Col. Sherwood says there Is abso
Ji 'fly no ground for rumors that the
fire was of Incendiary origin.
"It started right under the nose of a
policeman," he added
The fire spread with amazing rapld
Itv but this may be explained by the
tontents of the rooms, such as papers
and light tables
The ar-oepted explanation of the start
cf the fire was given by the policeman
l who was on duty at the senate en
1 t jnce He said he discovered a blaze
in a pile of newspapers In the reading
loom, tried to put it out with a chem
"il extinguisher and falling, ran for
hrlp When he returned the fire had
swpt through the room. Another po
liceman who waB at the commons en
trance to the reading room, insists
t n-re was an explosion In the chamber
wli (h burst the doors and swept him
eft his feet
Loss lXImnled nt $.1,000,000.
Taid 1 Wart, consulting architect
rr the puIiIh works department, est!-Jt,Tr-U,
d the loss at $3,000,000
Vs Premier Borden announced that par
liament would sit In the Victoria Me
morial museum until other arrange
ments are made The first sitting of
the commons was called for 3 oclock
this afternoon
l'maluly Two Explosions.
Tt has been established that the first
s-arsr of flumes In the reading room In the
1-ouse of r.immone was preceded by at least
on explosion and probably by two The
fore of the concussion was so severe that
persons standing some distance away werj
hurled to the floor A rlfld Investigation to
tfetcrmln the cause ot the fire already haj
been un len ken by the Dominion authorities.
The flames spread with such smaslng rap
idity that the Ottawa fire brigade wa help
less t pe with them Aid wss sent from
Montreal n a special train but at 1 oclock
thts ranri mg ths flra was still raging
The tons cannot be estimated In money
f hs building was valued at about SI 000 sue
1 ut the contents are of inestimable value.
There was no Insurance
names Reach Toward Booming Clock.
A midnight the committee rooms and
senate ch i libera hsd been destroyed snd as
the great Ink boomed out the hour flsmes
V rt m rllng up the magnificent tower ind
II king their way to its top
People Narrowly Escape
Members of the parliament, spectators In
ten gaJ cry of the lower house government
e plnrtj and others wbo were In the build
ing mrrol escaped death or Injury A
f w minute after the fire began, corridors
were fiiiei with smoke and at, many points
wal s of flumes barred passage There wre
(Continued on page B, Col. 3.)
C
Which Shall We Believe? What
SHIPS CRASH
The War At a Glance
INSTJU. CTIOXS regarding the
Lusltanla negotiations, sent
from Berlin recently to am
bassador von Bernstorff, do not
provide for an admission that the
sinking ot the liner was Illegal,
according to Information from
Berlin. It is declared the indica
tions are that the German gov
ernment will in no circumstances
admit the illegality of the sinking.
Airmen Atlnck Uunino
Three attacks by airplanes on Du
lazzo are reported b the Austrian
admiralty The Italian base at
Avlona also was attacked by Aus
trian aviators.
Vienna reports the bombardment
of Buczacz in Gallca by a Rus
sian air squadron and Russian raids
further north In Volhnia. while
the Austrian airmen appear to ha e
been equallv active
APPAM CASE
All That Remains is to De
cide How Long .Seized
Liner Can Stay in Port.
Washington, D C , Feb 4 Secretary
of state Lansing indicated today that
the I'mted States had decided to hold
'that the Prussian-American treaty gov
erns the case of the Appam, as Ger
many contends, and all that remained
to be done was the interpretation of
the application of the treaty's terms.
Secretary Lansing disclosed further
that the question to be decided by the
interpretation was how long the
Appam should be permitted to remain
4!i American waters. The treaty guar
antees to a German prize the right to
cOmo and go freely. If forced to de-'
part. German officials have stated the
Appam would be sunk to prevent her
recapture bj the British
Stir Cecil Sprg-an!e, the Bfltlsh
ambassador, today presented a formal
demand on behalf of his government
for the return to British owners of tna
liner Appam. taken by a German prize
crew. A new diplomatic controversy
with Great Britain is foreshadowed as
the United States practically has de
cided to hold the prize as Germany's.
Only Prise Cretv on ship.
Newport News, Va., Teb 4 Only
Lieut. Berg and his small prize crew
remained today aboard the former
British passenger steamer Appam.
brought into these neutral waters last
Tuesday as a prize of war. The liner's
passengers and original ship's com
pany, taken prisoners when the steamer
was captured b a mysterious Herman
raider off the Canary islands Jan. 15,
were liberated last night by order of
the United States government.
DrclarcM Itnlder Warn the 3loewe
Lieut. Berg, speaking for the first
time to an Associated Press correspon
dent, declared his ship, which captured
the Appam, was the Moewe anil not
the Ponga or the cruiser Roon. He re
fused further details.
British passengers said they were
confident several British army offi
cers, being in civilian clothes, had es
caped the vigilance of the Germans
while on board the Appam. and ha
been allowed to land Among others
landed were a number of African
negroes who saw snow for the first
time and called It "white rain"
FRENCH CRUISER IS LYING
IN WAIT FOR THE APPAM
Norfolk, Va., Feb A cruiser, sup
posed to be French was reported off
the Virginia capes some little distance
out, shortly after noon today.
The cruiser Is supposed to be lying
In wait to capture the liner Appam If
the German prize crew should try to
take her out to sea.
ALLIED ARTILLERY IS
MAINTAINING VIOLENT FIRE
Berlin, Germany, Feb. 4. Continued
and increasing activity by the allied
artillery along the Franco-Belgian
front is reported In today's statement
b German army headquarters.
Uxploslon of a British mine which
.1 .......... ...... s.e (ha mlriA .ral.M man,.
Hullucb, which the Germans were oc-
cupylng. Is announced, as well as ap
parently inconclusive hand grenads
operations along the front nearby.
TOTAL PRUSSIAN LOSSES
ARE 2,337,097, REPORT
Copenhagen, Denmark, Feb 4. The
January casualty list of Prussia, con
taining 36.600 names, brJigs the total
of Prussian casualties drring the war to
2 337,097 The January list contains
th names of five generals killed and
two wounded and of 24 airmen killed,
11 wounded and 20 made prisoner
TURKS HAVE EVACUATED
ERZERUM, RUSSIA HEARS
Petroxrad, Russia, Feb. 4. The
Novoe Vremya asserts It has received
from a trustworthy source informa
tion to the effect that the Turks have
evacuated Erzerum. one of their prin
cipal strongholds on the Caucasian
I)13STROKnS IIOMIIARD ITALY,
Ancona. Italy, Feb. 4. Four Austrian
torpedo destroyers, supported by a
cruiser, bombarded the San Vito.
Chietino and Orton road south of here
at 7 oclock Thursday morning. Only
slight damage was done. The Italian
coast batteries replied and forced the
warships to retreat.
SCOTCH PVPIIR seiki;d.
Glasgow. Scotland, Feb 4 The
offices of the Socialist paper. The
Worker, were entered by the police
Thursdav and the plant seized. The
premises have been closed.
mm wins
! 1 1 J L L .'. N LI H,
BUT IS ID f
War Gives Country Great
Store of Gold; But Living
Prices Cause Worry.
Amsterdam, Netherlands, Feb 4 Not
the least curious of the man) strange
incidental effects produced by the war
is the fact that the small country of
the Netherlands probably contains more
gold today than ee before In its his
torj. and jet Jiving prices prove a
hardship In the past year, for In
stance, a continual steady inflow of
gold from the Kuropean continent and
otersea has doubled the stocks of the
Netherlands bank, and with Holland's
foreign exchanges continuing their
ever-downward course there is no say
ing to what figure they may not reach
if the war lasts much longer and Is still
kept out of her borders
The go-ernment at the outbreak of
war had to reduce the compulsory gold
covering the bank's callable liabilities
from 40 to 20 per cent., those liabilities
of 620,000,000 florins or 3:58,333,000, are
now covered to the extent of 69 per
cent, the gold stocks amounting to
430,000.000 florins or $179,166,000 On
the other hand, a rewew of the year
Just closed shows that the banknote
circulation has been a record one,
reaching the figure of 576,700,000 flo
rins on November 2 last, or J240.291.000.
Other evidence of the favorable fac
tors which the war has brought with
it for Holland Is found in the new
year's speech of the chairman of the
Amsterdam chamber of commerce, in
which he shows that a number of busi
nesses and Industries have been able
to make considerably Increased profits,
although the risks were abnormal. The
Dutch shipping companies hate been
making enormous profits, while tbe
Dutch shipbuilding yards arc so crowd
ed with work that orders can only be
placed for very distant deliveries.
Has nothcr Side.
There is, however, another ride to
tho mntal. for the feverish aetlvlty In
lstm'eieconomle "-departments Ms-tHWe
than offset for the nation as a wnoie
by tbe blg-'rise in the cost of living
and the burden of the mobilization
costs. The war loan of some iio.uuu,
000 has long since been eaten up, and
at the efld of the ear the floating
debt of the treasury had again grown
to 354,000,000, so that another big loan
seems inevitable in the coming spring,
while large taxation increases are al
ready before parliament.
TELLS HOW ZEPPELIN
WRECKED BRITISH SHIP
London, Eng . Teh. 4 Chief engineer
Burch, steward Taj lor and seaman
Charles Hillier were saved and 13 of
the crew of the collier Tranz Fischer
killed when a Zeppelin sank the ship
off Hartlepool. Eng, Tuesday night
Describing the event, Hillier said:
"About 10 30 oclock Tuesday night
we heard a noise overhead suoh as we
had ne er before Presently a, Zeppelin
came right on top of us and dropped a
bomb which fell near the engine room
A tremendous explosion followed, the
vessel remaining afroat only a few
minutes . , ...
"There was no time to launcn uie
boats We all went under with the ship
When I came up again. I caught hold of
a lifeboat After swimming for some
time, I came across the chief engineer
and the steward, who had also managed
to get hold of lifeboats By their aid,
we kept afloat for an hour.
"It was pitiful hear the cries ot
some of the other r.en who had come
to the surface af ' the disappearance
of the vessel, but soon their cries
ceased and we concluded they were all
drowned."
RUSSIANS FIND 293 TURKS
FROZEN STIFF AND DEAD
Petrograd, Russia, Feb. 4 The Rus
sian official statement today says Rus
sian troops, continuing their advance
along the Caucasus front, encountered
the bodies of 293 Turkish Infantrymen,
frozen stiff.
The communication adds,
"On the west front between the Lake
Bablt and the Mltau road our detach
ments crossed German wire entangle
ments In order to attack enemy work
ing parties. Southeast of Riga our
armored automobiles made a dash In
advance of entranchments,, fired on
enemy positions and returned without
damage
"On the middle Strlpa front we hit an
enemy airplane which fell Inside the
enemy's lines.
RFFIISFC TO AID GERMANS
ON SUNKEN ZEPPELIN
Grimsby, Eng. I'eb 4 Because he
was numerically outnumbered, skipper
William Martin of the trawler King
Stephen refused to rescue 17 to 20 Ger
mans whom he found stranded on the
partially sunk Zeppelin L-19 In the
North sea early Wednesday.
The Germans begged to be taken off,
. . , Axlniimliarfiil Ilia Titncllal.
DUI as xney uui..",..." "- ..-..
crew, Martin feared to take the chance.
Instead, he headed into Grimsby and re
ported the matter to the admiralty's
authorities The Germans are supposed
to have drowned
GEiniAAS ARE AV1I.LINO
ron pound to nn aided
Berlin, German. Feb 4 (By wire
less to SaMe L. I) Germany has
granted permission for the carrying on
of relief work in Poland, provided ade
quate funds are raised and the entente
allies consent to the Importation of
food supplies.
Announcement to this effect was
made here today by Frederick O Wal
cott European representatie of the
Rockefeller foundation, and Caspar
Whitney of the American commission
for relief in Belgium, who have just
returned from a fortnight's trip through
Poland.
IN PACIFIC: 160 LOST
JHESE LBIU niS
If Ml
Twenty-one Lives Saved;
Other Ship, The Linan,
Is Badly Damaged.
LINAN ISGOING
TO HONG KONG
Collision Occurs at Night at
a Point 80 Miles From
Swalow, China.
SHANGHAI. China Feb 4 The
Japanese liner DaUlc Maru was
sunk Wednesday night in a col
lision with the steamship Linan and
160 lives were lost
Twenty-one persons were saved The
Linan, badl damaged, is returning to
Hon; Kong
The collision occurred at night at a
point 80 miles from Swatow
AS II BURNS
New York, Feb. 4 Six women lost
their. Jives in a. lire which destroyed ahe
home of Mrs. Caslmlr Tag In Brooklyn,
early today. Mrs Tag, widow of the
president of the German Savings bank,
escaped, but two of her daughters were
among those who perished
The dead are Miss Caroline Tag and
Mlsa Helen Tag. the daughters of the
late bank president Hannah II Snae
ley, C8 years- old, a cousin of Mrs. Tag;
Jennie Stebnaan, a nurse, and Anna Cain
and Lizzie Cain, servants
The fire is attributed to defective In
sulation of wires.
Miss Tag awakened her mother, who
is 60 years old, and aided her to es
cape There were no fire escapes on
the building and the firemen were de
layed bj heavy snow.
When the firemen reached the house
It was blazing furiously and it was not
until after the fire was extinguished,
that the bodies of the six victims were
discovered lying In the rooms and hall
ways of the third and fourth floors.
FIRE DESTROYS HOTEL;
THREE DEAD, EIGHT HURT
Atlantic City, N J., Feb. 4-Three
persons lost their lives and eight oth
ers were seriously Injured early today
In a fire which destroyed the Over
brook hotel in this city. The bodies
of three of the dead are still In the
ruins. Several of the Injured are ex
pected to die.
The fire Is believed to have started
In the kitchen. When It was discov
ered flames were shooting up the elo
vator shaft and soon afterward the
entire building was burning. There
were not many guests iu the, house
and most of them were aroused In time
to escape Their exit was cut off and
most of them had to Jump from win
dows. BANK ROBBERS
TERRORIZE Till
Clarlnda, Iowa, Feb 4 Eight rob
bers early today terrorised the citizens
of Shambaugh with a series of unsuc
cessful attempts to blow the safe In the
state bank of that town
Citizens who left their homes at the
noise of the explosion wero ordied
back at the points of revolvers The
robbers finally escaped, pursued bj a
posse.
MRS. MOHR WEEPS AS
COUNSEL CLOSES CASE
Providence, R I , Feb 4 Mrs Eliza-
today and wept -while her attorney,
John J. Fitzgerald, declared in his clos-
ing argument, inai "" '""'"
.- i i 1.1-At twn npcrrnes tn
iu snow- one imu n,.- "" " 7,,
murder her husband. Dr. C Iranklln
iionr
Counsel for the negroes, Brown and
Spellman, concluded their arguments
Thursday Attorney general Rice was
to close for the state in the afturnoon,
although it was not expected that the
case would reach the Jury until tomor
row. HIRAM JOHNSON' WONT Rl N
FOR BULL MOOSU PRIHJi:NT
San Francisco, Calif, Feb 4 Gov.
Hiram W. Johnson said here today that
he would not permit his name to rci lain
on the rolls of the secretary of state of
Minnesota as a candidate for the pro
gressive nomination for president in the
March 4 primary election. His name
was filed Thursdav.
"I had already refused permission to
use my name as a candidate In Min
nesota." he said
President
IS SUNK
IE
TD WASHINGTON
First Speaking Trip Ends;
Texas Beckons President
For Visit Next.
Washington, D C. Teb 4 President
Wilson returned to the capital from his
western speaking trip shortly after
1:15 o'clock this afternoon He went
at once to the white house
The president's official family wants
him to start soon on another tour.
Some of them liken his swing through
the middle west to an operation not yet
completed.
Senators and representaties from
most of the southern states already
have asked him to include their sec
tions on his next tour To this have
been added invitations from many
publlc bodies throughout Texas,
strongly asserting their claims There
is a feeling among some of his most
intimate advisors tnat in choosing the
scene for his next plea to the people,
the president could pay no greater
compliment to his own political party
than by going into Its stronghild
Play Go Into North.
Minneapolis, bt Paul and Denver
have prasenled what they consider
strong claims and it is known that a
trip to tbese cities is receiving careful
consideration It is possible that if
the president makes another prepared
ness t.iliv. it may be a combination of
the two-day swing to the northwest,
including Minneapolis or St Paul or
both, Denver and then south into
Texas, possibly returning by way of
New Orleans, Birmingham or Louis
ville although nothing has been de
cided concerning this
Refreshed By Trip.
President Wilson goes back to
Washington refreshed by the trip, not
fatigued as spme Jhflach t" he would be.
The enthusfaMa tniplayed wherever
Ms itinerary .has. taken him, the
throngs which flocked to hear him,
have been tonic to his nerves
SENATOR WORKS LOSES
HOPE FOR DEFENCE BILL
Washington. D. C , Feb 4 President
Wilson's speaking tour on military
preparedness was attacked by senator
Works, republican, Derore tne senate
military committee today while the
senator was presenting his plan to ap
portion western lands among 200,000
men who would spend two months a
3 ear in military training and the re
mainder combating the forces of nature
"While the president is preaching a
doctrine of excitement and fear" he
said, "and civic and industrial organi
zations of the countrj are being turned
Into vehicles to frighten the people Into
an unreasonable preparedness. I do not
have much hope for consideration of my
plans '
COLOMBIAN DISAPPROVES
MOVE TO CUT INDEMNITY
Washington. D C. Feb 4 So disap
pointed is Colombian minister Julio
Betancourt over the change in the
Colombia treaty to reduce the United
States" Indemnity to Colombia from
125,000.000 to J10.000.000 that he Indi
cated he might withdraw from the
legation and return to his native coun
try The treaty, ordered favorably re
ported by the senate foreign relations
committee, was formally brought into
the senate In executive session Thurs
day by chairman Stone
FLOODED ARKANSAS ASKS
AID FROM WASHINGTON
Little Rock, Ark , Feb 4 An urgent
appeal to Arkansas congressmen and
senators to solicit aid of federal au
thorities was sent by Gov Hays at
noon. The governor in his telegram
pointed out that thousands of people
in Arkansas are destitute because of
the flood
Rising waters threaten the safety of
Gould, Gradv and Dumas. Douglas and
Oakwoods bavou. a little settlement
that has been isolated .for five days
At Newport and Batesvllle the White
river is subsiding slowly. At McClel
land, on the white river, where the
levees broke Thursday, water 12 feet
deep covers the town More than 300
refugees from McClelland are reputed
to be isolated on Peach Orchard bluff.
PORTLAND FAMILIES SUFFER
SHORTAGE OF FOOD AND FUEL
Portland, Ore . Feb 4 Shortage of
food and fuel caused suffering In manv
families here today Merchants were
unable to deliver supplies through the
snow which stood three and four feet
deep in the main streets, and continued
to fall. Fallen trees and telephone poles
blocked streets in the residence dis
tricts. TWELVE BUCKET SHOPS
IN OHIO ARE IIII)i:i)
Columbus, Ohio, Feb. 4 Twelve so
called bucket shops In 11 Ohio cities
wero raided simultaneously today by
Inspectors of the state banking depart
ment and the members taken into cus
tody on charges of violating tho Blue
Sky law and operating fraudulent se
curity Jobbing agencies, according to
announcement by Harrj T Hall, state
superintendent of banks
PRINTING AND AIIVEHTISING
CONCERN PILES ITS CHARTER
Austin, Texas, Feb 4 The charter
of the Trl-State Advertising and print
ing corporation, of El Paso, was filed
today In the state department The
capital stock Is J300 and It is Incor
porated by L Shirley, Frederick
Barnbrook and A. Bliss Albro.
Wilson Says, or What
Foreign Office Official Declares Germany Has Reached
Limit Of Yielding and Wont Give In Further To
U. S. Ambassador and Secretary Lansing
Hold Conference on the Lusilania
Case Crisis Is Reached.
ERLIN, Germany, Feb. 4. The United States, in mating demands of
Germany regarding the Lusitania case, must not push Germany too far,
and the limit has now been reached. This is the position of Germany as
expressed by Dr. Alfred Zimmerman, under secretary for foreign affairs, in
an interview given the, Associated Press in which he expressed the hope that
the new formula forwarded to Washington would offer a possible basis of
settlement
"The government is willing to do everything in its power, and has done
everything in its power, to meet American wishes," he said, "but there are limiN
beyond which even friendship snaps.
"I do not understand America's course. We had though! the submarine
and the Lusi tarda question on the way to arrangement -had agreed to pa
indemnity and all that when the United States suddenly made iti new de
mands, which it is impossible for us to accept.
"You must not push your demands too far. You must not try to humiii
ate Germany." , . ... ,. . ...
J Dr. ZJmmermanIeft no doubt that.Jjieovfaolfctinterednecrciarj .
orasTaie-Xansihg demap&jJSejrnany disavow thesuoPtheLusrtanta
as an act contrary to international law.
He asserted again and again that if the United States desired to dnvr
matters to a breach, Germany could so no further to avoid it. and ihal the
I breach, with all its lamentable consequences, must come.
' im L Informadon reaching the Associated
TT TABIiliVliXUK, 13. C, Feb. 4 I -n . ..
X .. ,..-;..! !JPress today indicates that under no
f 1 JViM J l WB, IjstllSIll iillU
T count von Bernstorff, the Ger-
man ambassador, conferred oni the
Lusltanla negotiations late today, fol
lowing reports from Berlin that Ger
many had refused to brand as illegal
the sinking of the liner.
The conference with secretary Lan-
sin; was arranged at tho German am
bassador's request
Late today count von Bernstorff re
ceived bis government's answer In the
Lusltanla negotiations, and be took it
to his conference with secretary of
state Lansing Tbe ambassador said
before conferlng with the secretary
that he did not understand how the In
structions he had could be unsatisfac
tory to the United States.
Short Conference.
The German ambassador conferred
with secretary Lai-slng less than five
minutes and left the state war and navy
buildljig flanked by clerks to ward oft
newspapermen.
Secretary Lansing replied to ques
tioners "There Is absolutely nothing to be
said. The matter is confidential."
Count von Bernstorff finally made
the same reply when Inquirers inter
cepted him
Finally, In response to repeated re
quests for a statement secretary Lan
sing sent out from his office this mes
sage: "The situation is unchanged "
Lansing is Silent.
In the absence of official information,
secretary Lansing today refused to dis
cuss any phase whatever of the Lusl
tanla negotiations. It appeared at the
state department, however, that if offi
cials regarded the situation as serlously
aa it is reflected in Berlin dispatches, it
was not permitted to appear on the
surface. Something definite may take
form after president Wilson returns
to the capital this afternoon
Early todav the instructions had not
reached count von Bernstorff, the Ger
man ambassador
.Situation In "Unfavorable."
President Wilson read the Berlin
dispatches on the situation while his
train was running between Baltimore
and Washington He made no comment,
but members of his party said they re
garded the situation as unfavorable "
It was said that the president had not
finished considering the official dis
patches he received Thursday right or.
his train.
Herald Sells Oat the House
For Miss Margaret Illington
LYNN R. M'CIJNTOCK, manager of the Texas Grant! and Crawford
theaters, made the following statement at noon Friday:
"We ran two advertisements in The Herald that Margaret Mling
ton would play at the Texas Grand next Monday, then opened the seat
sale this morning tt 9 oelock. At 12 we had but seven seats left down
stairs. That looks to me like SOME advertising. Every tune I use space
in Tho Herald, I am more pleased with having selected it exclusively for
advertising our amusement attractions in EI Pago.
"I selected The Herald after carefully investigating the A. B. C. audit
of the two El I'aso papers and fully satisfying luyself that The Herald
amply covered the field. My experience has more than proved my judgment
correct."
BS33. BBI Si & ffl R flSSk
i ill ill i 11 li
circumstances will Germany admit
that the sinking of the Lusltanla was
an illegal act
The new instructions forwarded to
ambassador von Bernstorff. accordi ig
to this information, contain simply on.
phrase of the new formula of the nro
J posed note ot regret for the sinking of
me r.usiiania. Tne suggested semen.-'
is short consisting of only eight
words, and does not contain the word
"illegal." It represents the extreme
limit of Germany's concessions In the
Lusitania casei
Crisis Hinges on llIcgaL"
The view is entertained here that
one of the most serious crises of tho
war has arisen in connection with the
Lusitania case, and that It is Impossi
ble to foresee the outcome from any In
dications here. The result of the nc
gotlatlons appears to hinge solely ou
the word 'illegal.''
The Associated Press is Informed
positively and authoritatively that Ger
many cannot and will not designate as
Illegal the sinking of a liner by any
submarine Virtually no other differ
ences m the wav of settlement remain.
Dr. Alfred Zimmerman, undersecre
tary for foreign affairs, in an Interview
with the Associated Press, expressed
the hope that the new formula would
offer a possible basis of settlement
AUSTRIAN AIRMEN MAKE
THREE RAIDS ON DURAZZO
Berlin, Germany, Feb. 4 (By wire
less to Sajville. L. L) The Austro
Hungarian admiralty, in a statement
issued at Vienna today, reports that
three airship raids were made on the
Albanian port of Duriio from Jan. 7
to Feb. 1. The statement also an
nounces that bnmbs wore dropped by
Austrian airplanes on the port of At
Iona, which is occupied by Italian
troops.
THIRTY MINUTE RULE CASE
TO BE APPEALED BY "KATY"
ustin. Tex . Feb 4 The cause of
the Missouri. Kansas and Texas Rail
way companv of Texas, against the
state, involving the constitutionality of
the "thirty minute rule" of the rail
road commission, is to be appealed to
the supreme court of the United States
bv the "Kats " This is the case In
which the state supreme court refused
a writ of error from the third court of
civil appeals, therebj upholding the de
cision of the aDDeals court, which nn-
held the law
He Does?
