SEVENTH YEAR, No. 33
BOOST FOB THE OKANOGAN.
Those attending the Irrigation meet"
g at Tonasket on January 29th, re
in one of the most successful meet
gs ever held in the district. There
as a good attendance of the laud
mers from the south end of the dis-
Ict and quite a number went down
om Oroville and vicinity. The two
iportant discussions were given by
Stevens and Mr. Ross R. Brattain.
r. R. L. Plcken of Tonasket pointed
it a number of the advantages of the
strict plan of managing irrigation
ejects, and Mr. J. f’. Douglas spoke
his usual optimistic manner of the
lure of irrigated lands. The im
irtance of the success of the North
kanogan project in its relation to
tier prospective systems was well
resented by Mr. J. W. Graham of
onasket. He gave as the principal
lements of success of any project, the
Blowing live points and enlarged very
arefully on each one of them. First,
m soil —we have it, it Is well tested
rid there is no question as to its
alue; second, proper construction of
m system—the West Okanogan pro
>ct has good engineers and is bund
le. a good system; third —the up-keep
ost. how large; fourth, ultimate cost
f water.
The cost here will be reasonable and
von if construction cost should run
i $1 On per acre with the up-keep as
ig has two or three dollars per acre
1 is not too high and our lands will
asily stand such cost. Fifth—whether
r not lands are held at speculative
allies—too high values endangers the
access of any project.
He emphasized the fact that it is
trictly up to the people who live un
er a project whether or not the lands
re sold and that the best way to sell
and was to improve it. An irrigation
ystem is purely a business propo
ition
Mr. George H. Major gave a short
alk on the advantages of the district
dan and dwelt especially on the
inanclal end of the features. He stat
d that any project that has lots of wa
er and Is feasible In its construction
nd system of irrigation, can be flnanc
d it properly managed.
The principal talk was given by Mr.
. C. Stevens, engineer in charge, who
poke at length regarding the West
ikanog in project tmd the type of con
traction and answered many questions
hat brought out the strong points of
he system now being built. He stated
hat the canals and flumes are ample
o carry water to supply all the lands
elow the ditch and for all that are
rlthin a reasonable pumping lift
hove. The construction of the ditches
nd flumes is at the highest practical
ycatlon and reaches all of the land
hat can be reached by a gravity sys
em. The plans for the lateral distrl
mtion system will lie placed before
he land owners within a few days and
he laud owners will be given an op
lortunity to examine the same and
iiiggest any changes that may be ad
antagoous for their particular lands.
,1 r. Stevens spoke especially on the
plendid pipe lines that are being con
it ructed by the Portland Wood Pipe
company. Ho says these are the best
that he ever saw, being made of the
best quality of fir. At critical points the
staves are cresoted and all will be
given two coats of protection paint to
insure as long life as possible. The
wooden flumes are all pine planks and
put together In good workmanlike
manner; trestle supports are aubstan
tial fir timbers.
Wooden flume construction is
cheaper in the interest, cost and up
keep charges than metal flumes. The
metal flume, being comparatively new
and its wearing qualities not fully
tried out. The galvanizing sometimes
fails or the gravel in the water may
wear out the metal. On account of in
creased interest charges on a greater
first cost of construction of a system
using metal flume, if. is cheaper to
build of wood and replace than to
bear the first heavy cost of metal Hunt
ing construction although the operat
ing expense of the metal flume con
struction is less. Mr. Stevens advises
that the irrigation lines carry water
the full year except for that short
period of time when the severe freez
ing endangers overflow; keeping the
water in the flumes minimize the
shrinkage and drying of the flumes
and will keep the system in better or
der. lie explained at length the duty
of wale, and says that the amount sup
plied by this system —2.5 acre feet, is
ample for all needs and is more than
should be used on most of the land. He
declared that cultivation is the essen
tial thing in irrigation farming and
that water was but an adjunct. Mr.
Stevens laid special stress on the im
portance of the preparation of the
land and startled some of his hearers
by saying that, the water would be
ready for use before the land was
ready. A point that specially pleased
his audience was the statement, that
the entire system would be fully tested
by the contractors before being turned
over to the district. Another good
point regarding the construction was
that in ditch building practically all of
tlie water area was in cuts, there be
ing but few embankments.
Mr. Delator who has been the super
intendent of an irrigation project at
Vernon, B. C., spoke very happily and
emphatically of the benefits of the
project hero and created a very favor
able impression on his hearers. Mr.
Dclatur is a man experienced In Irri
gation matters and the handling of
water.
Mr. Ross R. Brittain, who Is living
near Tonasket for the present, gave a
very happy speech on boosting and
§\ ofifi inuiL <1 /f* ."WL'y
WiVflSvSv vT. tcj ((
M L , DX. L IUV3*
y v '-I* w I # \ JBIB 1 m 3 ■CewroJ \d W 7*^
made everybody feel happier and cer
tainly Inculcated the boosting spirit.
Ho maintained that happiness Is es
sential to a true boosting spirit and
that boosting for the Okanogan Valley
stands the test of true boosting, for it
must be done In a happy spirit and by
a happy man tor the purpose of bring
ing happiness to others. He quoted
from the dairy of the first voyageur
who came into the Okanogan valley
10!) years ago. This quotation was in
flowery language and showed that the
art of boosting is not all confined to
modern times. However, Mr. Brittain
out voyaged the old voyageur when
he described the Okanogan Valley as
he, in vision saw it. The talk of Mr.
Brattain was a happy climax of a
successful meeting.
A few—and It may be said to the
credit of the principle of justness and
fairness In the average man, only a
few —owners of land under the West
Okanogan Valley Irrigation district
reclamation system have required the
district to resort to the courts to secure
a right of way for the flumes and the
ditches and have demanded damages
for that privilege. In almost every In
stance those who have Insisted on
payment for a right of way are land
owners who have made 'no Improve
ments upon their holdings, and prob
ably would never go to the expense of
installing a private irrigation system.
These malcontents, seeing an oppor
tunity to get something for nothing,
for such is the case where payment is
asked for land that Is absolutely
worthless without water, and caring
nothing for the great benefits that, are
to accure to the entire valley and con
sequently to themselves ultimately,
resort to this method to harass the
district officials and put the district to
heavy and unnecessary expense. In
most instances the damages asked if
far and away beyond the market value
of the lands, Indeed, far more than the
land would ever bring without water
If the owner held on for 50 years.
The latest case of this kind to bo
tried before the superior court ■was
that of the West Okanogan Valley Irri
gation district vs. A. Laurgaard l.i
which the defendant asked damages
in the sum of $3050. Now the last man
in the valley that the public would
suspicion of resorting £o such action
is Mr. Laurgaard, and the question
has often been asked it there was not
an ulterior object behind this attitude.
Mr. Laurgarrd is a civil'engineer of
large experience, with the reputation
of being an exceptionally good one. Ho
has been connected with the construc
tion of other irrigation systems. No
man in the country is in a better posi
tion to understand the value of Irriga
tion as applied to the semi-arid lands
of this valley totally, valueless without
the revivifying Influence of water,
prodigally productive under irrigation.
One would naturally suppose that he
would hall with delight any enterprise
that would have for Its aim the bring
ing of water to any land he might own
in this valley and use every effort to
secure the same. Moreover, Mr.
Laurgaard has been a direct bene
ficiary from the inauguration of the
project. The officers of the district
employed Mr. Laurgaard at a salary
that you or I or any of us would be
delighted to draw, during the prelim
inary stages of establishing the sys
tem. At that time we know, it he was
honest in his expresesd opinion, that
Mr. Laurgaard felt that the project
was the salvation of the land owners
of the valley under the system. Why
he should have afterwards changed
his mind and decided that water would
be deleterious to his property is
something beyond understanding. Mr.
Laurgaard owns a tract of land on the
west side of the Okanogan river near
Tonasket and he came to the conclu
sion that the sterile and barren desert
would be damaged |3050 worth
is more it is said, than he paid for the
tract, or will have paid for it when
the tract is paid for. The case was tried
last week and the jury awarded him
$375 damages, Just $375 more than ho
should have had, in the opinion of a
great many people.
The Okanogan Seed Growers' asso
ciation will meet on Saturday, Febru
ary 12th, at 2 p. in., sharp. At this
meeting the various members will
place their orders for pedigree stock
seeds, through the association, and be
in readiness for early spring planting.
Mr. C. W. H. Heideman sent the asso
ciation a special list quoting prices,
prepaid by parcels post or express, to
Orovllle, and also is to mail the Koote
nai Seed Growers' association cata
logue soon. The meeting will be held
in the town hall and a goodly number
is expected to be present at this impor
tant meeting. Mr. Heideman will visit
Oroville some time during the mouth
of February, as lie is greatly interested
in the movement.
-—-—■- - —-
EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
Services will be held as follows on
next Sunday, February 6th:
Morning prayer and sermon at 11
Sunday school at 12; evening sermon
at 7:30. All are most cordially Invited
to attend these services.
REV. G. H. SEVERANCE, Vicar.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.”"
Services both morning and evening.
Sunday school as usual. All are most
cordially invited to attend and worship
* with as.
.SLIGHT DAMAGES.
WILL ORDER SEEDS.
THE MAGIC OF IRRIGATION
Idaho Falls, Idaho, Jan. 24, 1916.
Editor Oroville Gazette —
Dear Sir:—ln a little outing from
the routine of life in the Okanogan,
we find ourselves here in the midst
of an Irrigated section, and with all
the Interest of an up-to-date Oka
noganite we have been taking in what
irrigation is doing for others.
Tlie Snake river valley at this place
is a high plateau of sagebrush land
with an altitude of 4,800 feet, of great
extent and carrying a soil very much
the same as is found in the Okanogan.
There are thousands of acres now un
der irrigation and have been for some
ten years or more, and the transfor
mation of Hie country is simply most
wonderful.
In meeting with farmers in Okano
gan we have heard it remarked that
"alfalfa could not be grown up on our
highlands, it was too cold.” Well,
here Is land higher than any ranch In
Okanogan, where the thermometer
knocked the foundation from under
24 below zero, a day or two ago. with
thousands of acres of alfalfa, cutting
three crops with a yield of from five
to eight tons to the aero. Not too cold
there. A great area is also devoted to
the potato crop, it being one of the
great staple crops of this section, but
second to the grain crop. Wheat, rye,
cats and barley are grown with the
highest degree of success, a failure of
crops being unknown, thanks to irriga
tion. The sugar beet Industry is also
very largely developed, and a large
sugar factory here is taking care of
the great crops produced. Another
branch of the work, one that has been
discovered in Oroville lately, “seed
growing.” is bringing In a handsome
profit, the main article being seed
peas. It is too high for beans. At the
warehouse in this place, that receives
the pea crop, there are in addition to
the most modern cleaning machinery,
some sixty girls employed in hand
picking from an endless belt, ail im
perfect peas, or other matter that may
have escaped the machine. This crop
is all grown on contract price an
nounced in the spring, and is giving
the producers from S3O to SSO per acre,
and several thousand car loads are
shipped from here each year. Dairying
is also carried on quite extensively
with gra(J(ylng results,, with beef cat
tle and hogs adding to' the steady in
come of the farmer. These productions
are wide spread and general, and nan
best be appreciated by observing the
great number of buyers and the ware
houses provided for receiving the dif
ferent crops from the producers.
Honey also fills an important pan of
the many other sources of wealth that
is raised here.
Idaho Falls claims to be the largest
out shipping point of agricultural pro
ducts of any place in the United States
which has all been brought about by
irrigation, and 1 am convinced that
very few of our Okanogan people ns
yet begin to realize what our irriga
tion project will do for us if we apply
ourselves to it. If this valley, at an
altitude of 5000 feet, limited to certain
hardy crops, can produce such won
derful results what can he expected of
our own valley, where not only all
these crops can be grown at a greater
success, but almost anything else that
one could desire can also be grown
with equally as good results. A few
weeks spent in these surroundings is
surely a boost to the determination of
any man interested to reach out with
both hands to grasp all the advantages
that irrigation holds for us.
Prices here are excellent and the
marketing of the various crops grown
is very brisk at this time. With wheat
at $1.15, oats sl.lO. barley $1.25, po
tatoes $1.30, alfalfa $8 to $lO, beef 10
cents, pork G cents, the raisers of these
products are surely reaping a golden
harvest from their little drops of wa
ter mingled with the sand. But Oka
nogan valley, with an altitude of less
than 1000 feet, can discount this place
in every way. We have the soil, we
have the water, we have the climate,
and when we meet these with the ener
gy required to put them in operation
the “zone of plenty,” will surely be the
banner of the Okanogan irrigation
district.
Yours truly,
CUAS. A. ANDUUS,
COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the meeting of the town
council of Orovill<» Washington, Jan
uary 21, 1916;
Present, Mayor Samson, Couucllinen
Beale, Smith, Friis and Dartell.
Minutes of the previous meeting read
and approved as road.
Several citizens appeared before the
council in regard to the proposed
ordinance in regard to the closing and
legulating the pool halls and card
rooms, asking that the ordinance be
laid on the table at this time as it
would be inconvenient at this time to
comply with the provisions as set forth
in the ordinance. After some discus
sion in the matter and all parties in
terested being present agreed to cer
tain things in regard to closing hours
and curtains. Motion was made and
carried that the ordinance be laid on
the table indeflnately.
The matter of purchasing a new
typewriter for the clerks office was
taken up at this time and the council
decided that the finances of the town
at present did not justify the purchase
of a new typewriter.
The marshal was instructed to try
and make the road running north out
of town more passable.
On motion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
OROVILLE, WASHINGTON, FEBRUARY 4, 1916.
CORN IN THE OKANOGAN COUNTRY
(By Thomas Shaw.)
f
The marked adaptation of the Oka
nogan Valley for growing corn and
especially seed com jla but little
known. And yet It a fact that such
adaption Is of a very high order. This
follows from a variety 0f conditions
among which are the following:
1. Notwithstanding tliat it is so
far north, In fact reaching up to Can
ada, the elevation is low. relatively.
At Orovillo, up near Canada, It is 1141
feet, and at Pateros, where it Joins the
Columbia, it Is but 779 feet.
2. The valley Is bordered by rug
ged hills of mountainous proportions.
These protect It from Wind storms.
The fierce winds of the fprairies are
there virtually unknown, a matter of
considerable Importance When growing
corn.
3. The winter climate Is mild.
Snow seldom lies long In the valley.
Spring comes relatively early, earlier
than In many places farther south,
where the elevation Is nigher. This
allows a season of suff.clent length
for the proper maturing of the corn.
4. The days are usually sufficiently
hut to ripen up the corn l«i good shape
at the season for the ripening of the
same. This fact Is of special value
when growing com for se«d.
5. The supply of water for irrigat
ing is abundant and will be never fall
ing, as soon as the Irrigation system
now under way is completed, which
will be in time for next season’s crop.
The Irrigation system will bring
water to 10,000 acres of silty soil,
which is easily tilled. In the system
are five miles of pipe and syphon con
struction, 25 miles of woo-1 flume and
30 of canals. The head gates are of
concrete and steel, hence the work
cught to be of high grade, One of the
finest things about the construction
of the whole plant Is the great abund
ance of the water supply, coming
down as It does from the large surface
of sonw-clad mountains from Canada.
All the conditions would seem to be
present for the successful growth of
seed corn. The specimens that were
grown last summer were ' Very fine.
Two varieties were growij. The only
name that the growers couM give were
the yellow and the white (lent. When
seed is grown, the grower* should bo
specific a*-to the name, yel
low dent and white dent are rather
vague, as there are so many varieties
of each. Several varieties should be
grown, some large and some small, to
suit the needs of the growers at dif
ferent elevations and for different
uses. The larger varieties should be
used on the higher elevations for pro
ducing foods for cattle In the cured
form,or the silo, and the second for
hogging off on the same elevations
and those that are still higher. But
why should attention be given thus to
the growing of seed corn In the Oka
nogan valley? For two reasons at
least;
The first reason is that it should
bring good money to the growers. It
may be asked, how can this be In a
country that will grow five tons of al
falfa to the acre. The answer Is that
the asme land should grow from 35 to
40 bushels of seed corn to the acre,
and in addition a large amount of ears
that may not be considered suitable
for seed, but which would furnish
good grain for feeding. Such seed
should bring not less than $2.00 per
bushel for many years to come, as
northern-grown seed corn always sells
at a premium and will for years to
come. This would mean that the seed
portion of the crop should bring to
the grower from |SO to SBO per acre.
This would mean as much or more
money than alfalfa.
The second reason is that the seed
is northern-grown and, therefore Is
better suited to the needs of a north
ern climate than seed grown farther
south. In wide areas In the north It
Is not possible to grow the seed wanted
because of the shortness of the season
and yet it may be possible In these
sections to grow corn at a profit tor
the silo and for other uses. The only
uncertain question Is how far will this
demand be met by the growers of
seed far to the northward.
On the uplands of the Okanogan
country there Is also much room for
the growing of corn, but not so much
tor seed as for other uses. Farmers
were found growing corn at elevations
as high as 4000 feet above sea level.
On these high elevations It was sub
ject to autumn frosts sometimes. If
not cut early, but if cut ahead of these
it would still make much fodder and
quite useful for feeding. On these ele
vations or on many of them, there
are good reasons for believing that
the white flint squaw corn, sometimes
called Dakota White Flint, could be
depended on to mature. This would be
for hogging off or for being grazed
down by sheep. Another variety spo
ken of as Australian flour corn has
been grown with considerable success.
Like the squaw corn, it suckers much
and produces many ears. The ears in
both are of a fair size. Both are quite
leafy in their habit of growth and,
therefore, especially well adapted to
the fattening of sheep and lambs.
GOOD ROADS MEETING.
The annual meeting of the Oroville
—Simllkameen Good Roads associa
tion will be held at the town hall at
Oroville, Saturday, February 5, 1916,
at 2 o’clock p. m. sharp.
The election of new officers and the
consideration of any business relating
to good roads will be the object of this
meeting.
E. RISTE, President.
E. TBDAX, Secretary.
ALMOST A COLD BATH.
Chas. F. Sigrist, of this place, his
brother, L. M. Sigrist, of Antwyne, and
Albert Judd of Loomis, had a narrow
escape from a cold, clammy, death, last
Friday. Mr. Sigrist had occasion to go
to Loomis on that date, and drove
down to Tonasket, where he was join
ed by his brother. Albert Judd was at
Tonasket on his way home from Seat
tle and Mr. Sigrist accommodatingly
made room for him In the sleigh. When
they reached Spectacle lake a long,
double lake a short distance east of
Loomis, they decided to take to the
ice as easier going than the county
road. When near the dividing point In
the lake, which is a narrow channel of
water, and traveling at a lively pace,
the horses suddenly disappeared from
sight. A hole was broken In the ice
just largo enough to let the horses
through and the sleigh stopped on
the very edge of the hole. Mr. Charles
Sigrist and Mr. Judd leaped out and
detached the tugs, and as the Ice wan
firm Immediately around the edge of
the hole the horses were able to
scramble out. Within three minutes
from the time the horses broke through
the Ice the animals were again har
nessed to the sleigh and the travelers
on the way to their destination, but
they took to the highway in prefernce
to running any more chances of an
other accident.
The Ice In Spectacle lake is very
treacherous. The lake freezes every
winter and bold spirits think nothing
of making It a speedway, driving to or
from Loomis. But It Is never entirely
safe, no matter how cold the weather,
for there appears to be springs In the
lake, and wherever they occur the Ice
Is thin. In past years a number of acci
dents have occurred similar to the one
reported, fortunately without loss of
life. But that Immunity cannot con
tinue always, and a fatal accident may
happen any winter if people continue
to use the surface of the long stretch
of Ice highway.
STOCK ASSOCIATION.
Supervisor C. C. Reed, of the Col
ville National Forest, assisted by
Deputy Supervisor L. E. McDaniels, of
the Okanogan National Forest, have
during the past week organized two
cattle and horse associations on the
hofrß'T»H,~6'ne at Wauconda, with a
membership of 26, and one at Mount
Hull, with a membership of 22. The
one at Mount Hull will have a much
larger membership, ns the election of
permanent officers and the adoption
of several important resolutions was
held over until the next meeting which
will be held at Mount Hull Grange hall
Sunday, February 13. The stock men
of the Anglin district have requested
the Forest officers to meet with them
and assist, in forming an organization
in that section. The Forest officers
were accompanied on their trip
through the north half by County Ag
riculturalist Hughes, who addressed
the stock men on the subject of “Vac
cination as a means of preventing
blackleg,” and in other ways assisted
in making the meeting a success.
DELIGHTFUL ENTERTAINMENT.
The Mendelssohn Sextette, one of
the features of a lyceum bureau that
has been playing several towns in the
valley this winter, gave an entertain
ment in the Orpehum Tuesday evening
under rather peculiar circumstances.
The troupe was billed at Molson Monday
evening, and from there was to Jump
to Tonasket for Wednesday evening.
That left Tuesday an open date, and it
was decided to give a concert at Oro
vllle Tuesday evening. This conclu
sion was not reached until about noon
Monday, and then there was no time
to advertise the coming attraction.
Word was sent out over the telephone
that the concert was to take place, and
the fact was not generally known in
the community. To further interfere
with the getting out of an audience one
of the worst snow storms of the season
was raging early Tuesday evening, and
the train upon which the troupe was to
arrive was an hour late, not arriving
here until about 9 o’clock. Yet, for all
those drawbacks quite a number of
people braved the elements and turned
out. They wore well repaid, and those
who were present would attend an
other entertainment by the same
troupe were the weather ten fold more
disagreeable. The company is made up
of six young ladies, who arc artists on
the several instruments which they
play. As vocalists, they are not prlma
donas, but their catchy songs are very
pleasing. As a whole it was one of the
most delightful entertainments ever
given in Oroville, which is the opinion
of all present, and if the troupe should
ever return a crowded house is as
sured.
-
THE SEED FOR BETTER SIRES
The average farmer pays little at
tention to the sires which he uses on
his flocks and herds. To pay more
than SIOO for a bull or $lO tor a ram
or boar seems to him an entire waste
of money. If people could only be
brought to realize that on an average
every beet animal sired by pure bred
bulls will bring at least $lO a head
more than the one from scrub breed
ing; that every well bred lamb will
no doubt bring from 50c to SI.OO more
than the one of scrub origin; that
pure bred hogs always top the mar
ket. If they would think they would
realize that the extra money spent
for registered sires is the best invest
ment they ever made.
At the recent combination of breed-
ing stock handled at the Union stock
yards during the Pacific International
Livestock Exposition, breeding cattle
averaged around 1275.00 a head. One
of the breeders present stated that the
cheapest bull that he jv«~ bought coev
him |3,G00, for, as u calf, and that this
one animal had made his name famous
as a breeder. This expression was
echoed by many of the breeders
present, all of whom at different
times had paid large prices for herd
headers.
Under the present law in the state
of Oregon, it is unlawful to allow
scrub bulls of a beef breed to run at
large on the r ange, there being a
heavy fine for this misdemeanor, ff
livestock men could realize their own
first Interests, as served by the use of
pure bred sires there would he no
need for such a law.
it was recently estimated by one
who makes a close study of such prob
lems that an increase in tonnage of
over 25 per cent would have been
handled by the railroads coming into
this section, had pure bred sires been
used altogether. In many Instances
largo cattle men have been using
good blood for many years, but It
is the small farmer who jungles
things by his reckless use of the
scrub.
It should he the basin-ss of every
progressive livestock man who has
the interests of the industry at heart
to inform the proper local authori
ties of the evasion by anybody of this
law regarding (he running at large
of scrub sires, particularly bulls.
FALMEB MOUNTAIN NOTES.
Judging from tho amount of smoke
arising from near the ice house, we
are of the opinion that the boys are
getting up some ice.
The many friends of Joe Ley, who
has been on the sick list, will be pleas
ed to learn of his dally Improvement,
and we hope to soon see him about his
usual employment.
Clint Sandford, who is employed at
the Ivanboe mine, has moved his fam
ily from Palmer mountain to a vacant
house at the Bert Champney ranch.
Dr. Efner of Orovllle was a visitor
at the Ivanhoe Thursday.
Mr. Buckles, formerly of Oroville,
has purchased 20 acres of the Norris
ranch, better known as the Pitman
place, ih the Cove, and win occupy tor
Jordon house, which is situated on the
south end of the laud.
The many men employed by the
Ivanhoe are storing a vast amount of
ice, getting the summer supply of
wood from the mountains, and erecting
several new buildings at the mine
during the past week.
Mr. Green, who has so faithfully held
bis position of cook at the Ivanhoe
mine for the past three years, has been
on the sick list for a week, having had
to secure an assistant until he is again
able to resume his duties.
We are having some very cold
weather here since the spring bluff has
passed, it being 19 below zero on Mon
day morning. No wonder that the boys
would prefer the summer time in
which to store ice. The use of a sled
docs not look so out of place as it ap
peared at this time last week.
PEGGY.
LOOMIS ITEMS.
Dr. Efner of Orovllle, was called to
the Ivanhoe mine Sunday, where a
number of cases of grip are reported.
On his way back home he made a few
professional calls in Loomis.
All the freight teams in Loomis are
busily engaged in hauling machinery
from Nighthawk to Loomis, the most
of it being boilers, engines and con
centrating machinery ordered by Mr.
Marshall for the tungsten mine. Mr.
Marshall has a force of men working
on the road between here and the
mine and expects to install tho ma
chinery at the mine just as quickly as
men and money can do it.
W. E. Grant, who has been to Spo
kane and other outside points on legal
business, returned home on Saturday.
Arnold Curtis, who has been spend
ing a few weeks on h!s homestead
near Tonasket, made a flying trip to
Loomis Saturday.
A number of Mr. F. C. Retzcr’s
friends surprised him Wednesday
evening. The evening was spent at
cards and music. The occasion of this
visit was Mr. Kilzer’s birthday, but
just how old the gentleman is your
correspondent knoweth not.
Paul Loudon, who has been living
out on the Okanogan river, moved into
the Enright cottage Saturday.
W. B. McChesney and wife were the
guests of Mr. and Mrs. Geo. J. Hurley
Saturday.
Marvin Chase of Richmond Beach,
superintendent of the Whltestone Irri
gation and Power company, arrived
from the west side Tuesday.
Father Sherman has engaged Mrs.
Wm. Watson as a housekeeper.
Fory Judd, who has been in Spokane
Cor several months, returned home
Saturday.
VALENTINE TEA.
A valentine tea, with musical pro
gramme, for the benefit of Trinity
Guild, will be held at the home of Mrs.
F. M. Dallam on Monday, February 14,
from 3 to 5 o’clock p. m. All the ladles
of Oroville and vicinity are cordially
invited to attend.
W. A. Glenn, who has been working
at the salts lake, had both of his feet
frozen last week. He is able to get
around but his feet are still very
tender.
AN ENTICING MENU.
The complete menu (or the chicken
dinner to be served by the young la*
dies of the high school, Saturday even
ing is as follows:
I
Stewed Chicken
Mashed Potatoes Creamed Onions
Bread and Butter Pickles
Coffee—Cream and Sugar
II
Combination Fruit Salad
Cheese Straws
111
Apple Pie and Cheese
As announced last week this dinner
will be served by the girls and lady
teachers of the high school tor the
benefit of the High School Athletic
association. As the Athletic association
is somewhat In debt it la hoped that
the efforts of the young ladles will be
liberally rewarded. The dinner will
be served In the Civic League building,
Saturday evening, February 6, at five
o’clock.
COMMERCIAL SEED GROWING.
A great deal of the radish seed sold
in the United States at the present
time is of very low grade. We Import
from Kurope large quantities of rad
ish seed that could be better grown
at home. The bulk of the radish seed
that we get are grown by the market
gardners near the large cities. Time
was, when any one could grow nice,
crisp radishes, but when we under
stand the source of our seed and the
methods by which it is grown we need
no longer wonder at the present diffi
culty of getting crisp radishes. Acres
upon acres are planted. Ail the mar
etable radishes are sold and the culls
that are left are allowed to go to seed
and this is our present supply.
Sou.
Radishes thrive in any good garden
soil that contains an abundance of
moisture. A rich humus or loam soil
that have grown g<iod crops, of po
tatoes, corn and such crops is all that
could be desired. The soil requires no
special preparation other than that
which Is give the soil for any crop of
vegetables.
L _ Seed and Seeding. ,
The seed should be large and plump
and of the very best quality obtain
able. Plant thinly la drills 18 to 22
inches apart Seeding is best done with
a garden seed drill set to sow rather
thinner than for a market crop.
Cultivation and Thinning.
Cultivation should begin Just as
soon as the row can be seen and con
tinued until the plants begin to branch
to such an extent as to interfere with
cultivation. Just as soon as the gen
eral shape and size of the root can
he determined, the plants should be
thinned to about 4 to 6 inches apart
and just as soon as the first lot of
plants begin to send up the blossom
shoots these first plants should be
rogued out
Pollination.
Radish blossoms are cross pollen
ized mainly by insects and but one va
riety should be grown in the same
Held unless a considerable distance
apart. A distance of lalf a mile at
least between varieties should be had,
and even this distance may not al
ways guard against mixing. Cross
pollenization is best secured by plant
ing radish for reed in blocks.
Harvesting.
As the radish blooms and continues
to get seed pods throughout the sum
mer season the crop Is usually not
ready for harvest until severe frost
has checked the bloom. The seed does
not shatter easily and harvesting may
be delayed somewhat until all of the
pods are mature. Hand pulling of the
plants, cutting off the roots to prevent
dirt from getting Into the seed is the
only method available for small grow
ers. Two or three days drying in the
sun will make the stems and pody
brittle enough to thresh out with a
flail.
On a large scale, threshing can be
done with an ordinary grain separator
and the seed is easily cleared by win
nowing In a light breeze after which
it should be cured or dried and stored
away.
Selection.
Care should be exercised to leave
only the very best roots to go to seed.
Uogueing must be very strict. All
plants that go to seed prematurely
and all plants with bloom off color
should be removed. In this way, only,
can high seed be produced. The soil
and climate conditions of the Inland
Kmplre are admirably adopted to the
growing of a high grade of radish
seed and it should be the aim of all
growers to produce strains that will
produce the old time crisp radishes
of our fathers.—Koctenai Valley,
(Idaho) Times.
January, 1916, will go down in the
annals of local history as one of the
cold periods that has had few paral
lels. With the exception of two days
when a Chinook got In its work the
mercury has constantly hovered In the
neighborhood of zero, and to add to
the discomforture of the chill, wind
constantly whooped It up out of the
north, and a north wind in the winter
through this valley Is something to
be dreaded.
91.60 PER TEAR
