BARRE BAI
VOL. XIX NO. 275.
15 A HUE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, FEHKUARY , 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE
LY
TIMES
BOMB THEORY
IS REJECTED AS
CAUSE OF FIRE
' Part of Canada's Magnificent Parliament
Building at Ottawa Was Destroyed
" Last Night and Flames Were Said to
Have Followed a Tremendous Ex
plosion
REFUSE TO CALL
LUSITANIA LOSS
AN ILLEGAL ACT
Germans Are Willing Mere
ly to Express Regret for
Loss of American Lives,
According to Information
Coming to the Associated
Press
GERMAN CONCESSION
REACHES LIMIT
LIBRARY AND TWO WINGS
ONLY WERE SAVED
Five, Persons Are Known to Have Per
ished and it is Feared That Two Oth
ers Lost Their Lives Montreal Sent
Aid by Means of a Special Train
One New Phase Is Included
in . Formulation of Pro
Posed Note of Regret, but
the Word "Illegal" Does'
Not Appear in It Grave
Situation Arises
NOTABLE SUCCESSE3
BY AUSTRIAN AIRMEN
Notable successes for airmen in
raids on t lie Albanian port of J i -razzo
are reported by the Austrian
admiralty. Three attack by air
on this important allied buH be
tween Jan. 2" and Fob. 1 aro re
corded. The Italian base at Av
Intm, AHiania, also was attacked
by A lint i iu n aviators on Feu. 2.
Tli. eastern war theatre, like
the western and the lialkan, has
in recent day been the scene of
liumeroiiH aerial operations. Yien
na report the bombardment of
ftucr.ticz ' in Galicia by a Russian
ipindron and ltiissiiui raids fur
tlier 1101 til on the Volhyniu; while
Austrian airmen appear equally
active. A second Zeppelin raid on
Salon iki, attempted on Wednes
day, nan frustrated by the tiro of
allied batteries, according to nn
Athens dispatch.
Reports' of infantry operations
of importance from the main war
fronts are lacking- Vienna claims
that progress for the Austriuns at
Tolmiiio is being held by sapping
operations.
Ottawa, Feb. 4. Two women and three men are known to have
perished in a fire which swept the central portion of Canada's
magnificent Parliament buildings last night and early to-day, de
stroying the Chamber of Commons and the Senate. Several others
are reported missing, and it is feared they are buried in the ruins.
All night long firemen, police and soldiers fought to save the
$6,000,000 structure. They succeeded in saving the beautifu
library building and the east and west wings of the main edifice.
Immediately after the fire started, the report spread that it was
caused bv an incendiary bomb. The fire started in the reading
k room of the House of Commons, and several who were present at
the time asserted it was preceded by an explosion, which knocked
down several. The bomb theory, however, was rejected to-day by
Colonel Sherwood, commissioner of the dominion police, who in
sisted that the conflagration was accidental.
Among those reported missing are B. B. Law, the member from
Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, and J. B. Laplant, assistant clerk of the
House of Commons.
The known dead are: Mme. Bray, wife of II. A. Bray of Quebec,
and Mme. Morin, wife of Louis Morin of St. Joseph De Beauce,
Quebec, who were visiting Parliament as the guests of Mme. Se
vigny, wife of Speaker Sevigny ; Robert Fanning, a waiter ; Arch
DesJardins, a Dominion policeman, and A. DesJardins, a plumber.
The cause of the fire can only be determined by an investigation.
' The financial loss is difficult to estimate, but the contents of the
building were of great value.
Members of the Parliament, spectators
in the lower house, government employes
and others who were in the building nar
rowly escaped death or injury. Within a
few minutes after the fire began, corri
dors were filled with smoke, and at many
points walls of flame barred progress.
There were many doors to the great
building, but since, the outbreak of the
war all except the main ptirtals have
been closed to safeguard the legislators.
This precaution made escape more diffi
cult and probably was responsible for
the death of Mme. Bray and Mine. Morin
in one of the rooms of the speaker's
suite.
Mme. Sevigny saved her two children
by dropping them into a firemen's safety
net, and then leaped to safety herself.
Another of her guests, Mme. Dussault,
saved herself in the same way.
Among those severely burned was Min
ister of Agriculture Burell, who fell in
sensible after plunging through a curtain
of tire and groping hia wav along a
smoke-filled corridor.
Legislators who were in the building
experienced great difficulty in groping
their way through smoke-filled corridors.
Several fled through windows and down
ladders to the street.
The entile tire-fighting equipment of
Ottawa was unable to cope with the
flames, and Mayor Martin of Montreal, a
member of Parliament, at 10 o'clock or
dered the Montreal fire brigade to this
city. Half an hour after the fire was
dis-overcd, the glass roof over the Cftm-
Berlitt, via London, Feb. 4. Informa
tion reaching the Associated Press to
day indicates that under no circum
stances will Germany admit that the
sinking of the Lusitania was an illegal
GERMAN PRIZE CREW
LEFT ALONE ON AITAM
Ush Prisoners Climbed Over the Rail
L3t Night and Landed on Amer
ican Soil After Long Dis
cussions Between Ship
Owners ant British
Embassy.
Newport News, Va. Feb. 4. Nineteen
days of ceaseless vigil for the short
handed German prize crew aboard the
former British liner Appam ended late
lust night when the last of more than
40(1 liritish prisoners climbed over the
ship's side to liberty 'on American soil.
And for the first time since Lieutenant
BEACH
HOTELS
BURNED
Overbrook House at Atlantic
City Destroyed This Morn
ing and Five Persons Lost
Their Lives, While Eight
Others Were Seriously In
jured
TEACHERS' CONFERENCE HELD.
NANTASKET BEACH
HAS $150,000 LOSS
Because of Heavy Snow the
Firemen Could Not Get
Their Apparatus Up the
Hill to the Rockland
House at the Latter Pla,ce
act. The new instructions forwarded to
Ambassador Von BernstorfT, according 'Berg and his twenty-two men boarded
to this information, contains simply one.""' ",p mer
..i - ..i f.. il:.. i 'her on the night of January 15, moBt of
mons chamber fell, and it appeared that
the handsome Gothic structure was
doomed.
"Fire! Run for Your Lives!"
When .Speaker Sevigny took the chair
ami opened the session of the House at
f o'clock only aliout f0 members were in
tiieir seats. A discussion relating to
fisheries was proceeding, when the de
corum of the chamber was broken by a
incsst ngcr, who dashed into the room,
shouting: "Fire! Hun for vour lives!"
1-1 a . 1 1 1 . . 1 . I .. 1
j lie name nan unnnjini tmi eimuoniv Sevigny standing at a
mat aiinougii iney Marion not more children in her arms.
than .10 t.-et l mm ttie cnamoer, mcnioers, . ,:, t . ,..,, ,, ;. ;f
her children.
net.
guests were Mme. Bray
private office adjoining the reading room
when the fire started. When he left bis
room he had to plunge through a wall
of flames in the corridor and then grope
his way along 50 yards of the hall to
gain safetv. l)r. Clark was burned while
attempting to obtain his coat, which was
in a small locker in one of the corridors
outside the chamber. These lockers line
the halls on three sides of the commons
and were hidden behind a curtain of
smoke. '
One of the first men to make his wav
out of the chamber was Col. John Currie,
w ho commanded the 14th regiment of the
Canadian first division through the bat
tle of St. Julien, in which he was over
come with asphyxiating gas. Colonel
Currie at once organized into a fire bri
gade members of the House, telegraph
operators and police attendants, who laid
several lines of hose from a supply kept
coiled in the corridors for emergency
purposes. They kept streams of water
playing on the flames, but without ap
parent effect, and soon were driven back
bv the terrifio heat.
Standing at the entrance of the read-1
ing room when the fire started were
Colonel George Bradburg a member from
Manitoba, and Medr-ic Martin, mayor of
Montreal, and a member from that city.
Near them was Constable Ilclmer, who
was on guard at the entrance to the
reading room. All three assert the fire
phrase ot .a new formiiMlion of a pro-
oed note of regret for the sinking of
the Lusitania.
The suggested sentence is short only
eight words and does not contain the
word illegal. It represents the extreme
Caledonia County Assembly Was Held
at St. Johnsbury.
$t. Johnsbury, Feb. 4. Tlw teachers
of Caledonia county met in convention
here to-day. The meetings were held
at the academy and there wan a good
attendance of the public at all of the
different sessions. PSupt. G. A. Jamie-
son of West Burke was iu charge of the
grammar department, Supt. Bert B. Bur
bank of Burnet, of the intermediate de
partment, Miss Klla Wilmarth, princi
pal of Lyndon academy, of the primary
department, and the rural work was
in charge of Supt. Harvey Jlurbank of
Danville.
The first session began at 10 o'clock
and the following subjects were taken
up: Civics, Miss Caroline S. Woodruff
of Bradford; English composition, Bert
B. Burba iik; reading, Supt. M. K. Dan
iels of Lyndonville. Leon W. Baxter,
who has charge of the manual training
in the St. Johnsbury public schools,
gave a paper on this subject winch ne
read before the New England teachers'
convention last summer and Miss Mar
jorie Smith, domestic science teacher, of
the public schools, gave a talk on the
subject of school lunches.
In tho second session formal gram
mar was discussed by Clarence H. Wil
ley of Lyndonville; if. E. Daniels' sub
ject was reading and the nuniber work
was taken up by Miss Beatrice P.anney
and Supt. W. H. Young of St. Johns
bury. At tho first afternoon session the
subject was mathematics. Prin. O. I).
Mathewson of Lyndon institute gave a
very able talk on the subject of equip
ment for secondary school work. The
other subjects were: Mental Arithme
tic, Miss Maud h. Harding; Irom the
Secondary Point of View, Supt. Edward
Clark of Bradford; Solving Problems,!
Miss Caroline S. Woodruff: The last
was devoted to discussions on
questioning, by Principal Chaffee of
1 eacham academy; Games and , Seat
Work by B. B. Burbank, and English
bv Supt. Leonard D. Smith of Wells
River.
The general meeting drew a large at
tendance and the program was varied
EXPECT CALL
TO BEACCEPTED
Barre Baptists Invite Rev.
Burt J. Lehigh of
Oswego, N. Y.
TTKT A XTTHT-VTTC TrriTI-1 '?
Ui."N.n.ll J.1Y1UUO VUil'?
TAKEN LAST JHT
Rev. Mr. Lehip'.i? Recently
Preached as Candidate
limit of Germany's concessions in
Lusitania case.
the
TURKS EVACUATE
BIG STRONGHOLD
Trustworthy Source of Information Has
It That Erzerum on Caucasus Front
Has Been Given Up to
Russians.
Petroprad, via London, Feb. 4. The
Novoe Yremva asserts that it has re
ceived from a trustworthy source infor
mation to the effect that the Turks have
evacuated Erzerum, one of their principal
strongholds on yie Caucasian front.
ENGLISH COLLIER SUNK.
Was Attacked by German Zeppelin in
North Sea.
London, Feb. 4. The collier Franz
Fischer, which left Hartlepool Monday
afternoon, was sunk at sea by one of the
raiding Zeppelins which visited England.
Thirteen of the crew, including the cap
tain, were drowned.
Three men were saved. The Franz
Fischer was a captured enemy vessel em
ploved as a coasting wilier. Charles
llillier, one of the rescued, who was a
native of Newfoundland, described the
the Germans slept peacefully with but
a few of their number on watch.
All British subjects and the one na
tionalized American, G. A. Tagliaferri,
'quit the ship leaving th.s prize com
i i- ...:i. i.:.. n...i w
Germans W'ho had been prisoners on the
Appam, including three women.
Captain Harrison and the Appam's
British crew left their vessel only after
a sharp controversy between agents of
the owners, Elder, Dempster & Co., and
the British embassy at Washington. The
company desired its men to ivmain on
the liner to support the claim that tho
Germans forfeit tiieir prize by remain
ing in neutral waters. But the embassy
insisted that every British subject de
part as soon as permission had been
granted by the prize commander on the
demand of the united States govern
ment. Plans were changed every hour dur-;
ing the afternoon Hnd evening, but the
embassy's authority prevailed finally
and a special boat was provided to take
the Appam's crew of ir. to Norfolk to
await the sailing of a steamer for New
York to-night. Meanwhile the 114 'pas
sengers and the 13t5 British seamen cap
tured with the other seven ships taken
by the raider Ponga or Moewe, had been
transferred ashore by steamers. Five
of the seamen, one Englishman and four
Lascars of the crew of the Clan Mae
Tavish, all wounded, were removed to
a hospital. All the others with mot
of the passengers, were placed aboard
river steamers for Norfolk. An Old
Dominion liner was being held at her
dock to take them to New York.
The British government is caring for
all passengers and crews of the captured
freighter and will send them on to Lng
Atlantic City, N. J., Feb. 4. Five per
sons lost their lives and eight others were
seriously injured this morning in a fire
which destroyed the Overbrook hotel at so as to make it of great interest to ... ... .,.: ivwrd of iUa church
the corner of Pacific and Mount Vernon I all present. The orchestra and glee club!,,..,! tin. iOT,.n,. , ;t;,n,tA h.s
ot he. johnsbury academy lurnished mil
Adherents of the First Baptist church
met last evening and voted to extend
call to Rev. Burt J. Lehigh of Oswego,
N. Y., to become pastor of the local
church to succeed Rev. George H. Holt,
who recently transferred to Corona, Cal.
Deacon F. A. Hutchinson presided at tha
meeting and the question of filling tha
pulpit vacancy was thoroughly discussed
betore the motion to extend a call to;
Kev. Mr. Lehigh was linally acted upon.
Unanimity prevailed on the motion to;
call the candidate mentioned and lata
last night a telegram was dispatched to
the Oswego clergyman. A reply is ex
pected within a few days.
It is said that Rev. Mr. Lehigh's ac
cepfance of the call is practically assured.
On a recent Sunday he conducted morn
ing and evening services in the local
church, preaching on both occasions nd
making a very favorable impression
among the parishioners. Afterward ha
avenues. Several of the injured are ex
pected to die.
The fire is believed to have started in
the kitchen, and soon after the flames
were discovered the entire building was
wrapped in flames. There were but few
guests in the hotel and most of them
were aroused in time to escape, although
many jumped from windows. The dead
include the parents of Richard Mott, the
proprietor of the hotel.
MANY SMALL FIRES
WERE EXTINGUISHED
AS HOTEL BURNED
sic, and addresses were made by Mason
S. Stone of Montpelier, state commis
sioner of education; Frank H. Brooks of
St. Johnsbury and Rev. Arthur W. He
witt of Plainfield, Isjth members of the
state board of education.
MANY SEEK REWARD.
disaster as follows:
"About 10:30 o'clock Tuesday night we I land aboard the first available ship. The
Property Near Rockland House at Nan-
tasket Beach Waa Gravely Endan
geredCause of the Fire Has
Not Been Determined.
Hull, Mass., Feb. 4. The Rockland
house, one of the largest hotels on Nan
tasket bead), wag destroyed bv a fire
early to-day, with a loss of $150.000..
The only person in the building was the
caretaker. The cause of the fire is not
known.
Because of the deep snow the firemen
were unable to get their apparatus near
enough to the hotel, which was located
on a hill, to chock the flames, but they
succeeded in subduing many small fires
on the roofs of nearby hotels and cottages.
For Capture of Murderer of J. Stewart
Hamilton.
Keene, N. 1L, Feb. 4. Seven claimants
of the reward of $1,000 offered bv the
Holbrook, Cabot and Rolling corporation,
for the apprehension and deliverance, to
the New Hampshire authorities of the
murderer of J. Stewart Hamilton, ap
he would accept a call under certain con
ditions. It is understood that the condi
tions have been met.
Rev. Mr. Lehigh is 42 years old and
has had a good deal of experience in tha
Baptist ministry. He has a wife and
one child, a daughter, aged 14. Mrs.
Lehigh's parents reside in Brookfield,
having moved to Vermont from New
York a few years since.
GOES TO GROTON CHURCH.
Rev. George B. Gould Resigns Pastorate
of St. Albans Baptist Church.
St. .Albans, Feb. 4. Rev. George B.
Gould, pastor of the Baptist church here.
peared cither in person or by counsel, !has tendered hi resignation, the sarin
to take effect on March 1, and he will
go to the Baptist church in Groton. Dr.
Gould has been pastor of the local church,
for four ycarp.
RE-OPEN FEB. 8.
Goddard Students, 111 with Scarlet Fever,
to Be Placed in Rented Building.
Four students who developed symp
toms of scarlet fever three weeks ago
SAVED MOTHER
BUT LOST OWN LIFE '
IN BROOKLYN
heard a noise overhead such as we had
never heard before. Presently a Zeppe
lin came right on top of us and dropped
a bomb which fell near the engine room.
A tremendous explosion followed, the
-iael remaining afloat only two min
utes. "There Was no time to launch life
boats. We all went under with the ship.
When I came up again I caught hold of
a life belt. After swimming for some
time I came across the chief engineer and
Mder-Dempster company will arrange
for tho return of the Appam's crew.
Lieutenant Berg, commanding the Ap
pam, talked for the first time last night
of his cruise. He ridiculed the sugges
tion that his raider was the new fruit
trader Ponga, insisting that she was
the Moewe. He confirmed the accounts
of the capture of the seven English
vessels and declared he had nothing to
say regarding his future plans. ,
When asked how his crew felt about
the steward, who had also managed to i their enforced iu'eness, the lieutenant
get hold of life belts. By their aid we i squared his shsrldcrs proudly
kept afloat for an hour.
"Jt was pitiful to hear the cries of
some of the other men who had come to
the surface after the disappearance of
Ah. my crew," he exclaimed. "They
are artists. They take their work as
it comes."
Apologizing for any seeming brevity in
the vessel, but soon their cries ceased ' his remarks, the lieutenant said he spoke
and we concluded they were all drowned. as fully as he dared, owing to his extra
Meanwhile we continued shouting for;ordinarv position.
help. hen almost exhausted, a Belgian
steamer heard us, lowered a boat and
picked us up. Subsequently we were
transferred to a mine sweeper and land
ed." Asked how the Zeppelin managed to
find the vessel in the dark llillier said
the collier was riding at anchor and her
LANSING INCLINES TO
TREATY PRECEDENT
ttr(.,.l rrr.,n .vnUmn ,.1,1.1, fill., A
the readimr room with flames and burst ! an, hor l'l-'hts must have ; been seen by the
open the swinging doors. The force of
the explosion was so great that all of
them were thrown flat on the floor. In
their opinion, an explosive bomb or an
infernal machine was responsible for the
fire.
Mme. Sevigny, wife of the speaker, lier
two children and three women guests
were in the speaker's private quarters on
the same floor as the chamber and read
ing room. They were cut off from safety
by a wall of flame. When the fin-men
reached Parliament hill, thev saw Mme.
window with Iter
men in the Zeppelin. As the vessel was
stationary, it was easy to drop a bomb
on her.
ZEPPELIN IN THE SEA.
German Aircraft in Trouble Reported By
Trawler.
Ixndon, Feb.4. A fishing trawler re
ported yesterday to t lie naval authori
ties that she bad seen a German Zep
pelin in the North sea in a sinking eon-
dition, it was staled in an official state
ment given out last night.
Misa Caroline Tag Assisted Mrs. Casimir
Tag to Neighboring Roof and Then
Went Back and Perished with Her
Sister and Four Other Women.
New York, Feb. 4. Six women lost
their lives in a fire which destroyed the
home of Mrs. Casimir Tag in Brooklyn
to-day. Mrs. Tag, who is the widow of
the president of the German Savings
bank, escaped, but her two daughters
were among those who perished. One of
the daughters, Caroline Tag, was awak
ened by the smoke. She telephoned the
firemen and then assisted her mother
through a third-story window to an ad
joining roof, from which the firemen res
cued her. The daughter then returned
to arouse the others in the household and
with' the other five was trapped in the
Ha mes.
SERIOUS FIRE AT TROY.
Two Large Structures Destroyed with
Loss of $100,000.
Troy, N. Y., Feb. 4. Fire of unknown
origin destroyed two five-story struc-I
tures in the business section of Troy lat I
belore Judge Chamberlain in the su
perior court at the bearing yesterday,
to substantiate their claim for the mon
ey, in all or in part. The evidence closed
yesterday afternoon.
Among the claimants were Francis
Hanrahan, a detective of Halifax, N. S.,
Milton Snowden of Boston, Ludgi Bra
dio formerly of Brattleboro, Vt., Ralph
Kirkwood of Brattleboro, Vt., David S.
Carey of Brattleboro, Vt., George Wil
son of Brattleboro, Vt., Frank O'Brien
of Boston. and have been ill with the maladv arn
All except Bradio, who is in Italy, and to be removed from Goddard seminary
Frank O'Brien, appeared in person and to-morrow and sessions at the school
were examined by their counsel. Bradio j will be lesumed on the morning of Tties.
and O'Brien were represented by coun-iday, Feb. 8, according to a statement
sel and eit her had witnesses or deposi- j issued to-day by Principal O. K. Hoi
tion to present to Judge Chamberlain. ' lister. The decision to re-open the Bern
All told of the various parts they played inary was reached at a conference of
in the apprehension of Wren, who was doctors, including the health officer, and
convicted of the murder in the Cheshire the school authorities, which was held
county superior court in 1913 and sen-j last evening.
fenced to life imprisonment at the state The students who were detained ab
prison in Concord. the seminary by the fever when tho
J. Stewart Hamilton waa a boss for student body was excused late in Jan-
the Holbrook, Cabot and Rollins cor- uary are all making favorable prog
poration who were constructing a rail- ress toward recovery. Those in author-
road in Hinsdale in 1913. Hamilton waspty on the hill have leased a house bera
clubbed to death on the night of Feb. 5; in" the city and thither the students will
and the next day the corporation of-1 be moved "sometime to-morrow to remain
fercd a reward of $l.OO0ifor the rounlor ; during the convalescent period, or until
er's apprehension. Wren was arrested after all danger of their communicating
on Feb. 7 by Francis Hanrahan, at Hali-jthe disease to others has passed. To
fax, N. 8., and brought back to New morrow night the health ofiicer and his
Hampshire, tried and convicted. There 'assistants will, begin a thorough fumi
were so many claimants to the reward ' gation of the school buildings. Tha
that the corporation was unable to de-imain building, the Thompson memorial
cide to whom it should go and asked the jand the alumni hall will' be fumigated
carefully. Principal Hollister stated to
day that every precautionary measure
will be taken to rid the school buildings
of any possibility of contagion.
Reports received from students of tho
seminary who have been at their homes
since the school was closed do not indi
cate that any considerable number haro
court to decide.
OPERATORS REFUSE DEMANDS
the Appam, as Germany contends, and
that all that remained to be decided was
the determination of the
the treaty terms.
. t M I
ny smoke ami names ,ipr-1 ;, ,irj
ey sought an exit through theThpn ph(, ,)pp), mMy into the
n d.rrs. Police guards were on Mme. Sevivnv's guests were Mn
-A ere driven lack
when th
tao main
ATTACK CARRANZA FORCES.
Forced to Retreat Railroads Cut and
Wires Down.
El l'ao. Te.. Feb. 4. A la rue force
A Renter dispatch from Amsterdam 'of bandit attacked a small de facto gov-
Wednesday reKirted that the coast ernnient garrison at Moctezuma on the
guard on the Dutch i-land of Ameland main line of the Mexican Central rail
in the North sea sighted a Zeppelin road about 100 miles south of El Paso,
the demands of their miners for a 20
per cent increase in wages, complete rec
ognition of the I'nited Mine Workers
of America, a two-year working agree
ment, an eight-hour day and changes in
the methods of fixing wages.
The operators propose that if the dif-
night. causing damage estimated Ht erences cannot . seitieu oy ine "in-
$100,000. A. Sovctt's jewelry store !o-! , . , V lmv ..uo
in the award of the an
thracite coal strike commission of 1902.
The miners' demands were formulated
Made By Anthracite Miners for 20 Per
Cent Wage Increase.
New York, Feb. 4. The anthracite
coal operators rejected here yesterday i come down with the malady, only four
Secretary of State Indicates That Prus
sian-American Agreement Governs
the Appam, Case.
Washington, I). C, Feb. 4. Secretary
Lansing indicates! to-day that the Inited Icated at 274 River street, the Sample i 1
States had decided to hold that the Prus- hat store at 272 and the Fit well cloth- i l,rov"leit for
sian-Anierican treaty governs the case of ; ing store at 270 River street were the
ases having developed outside the school
thus far.
TOOK BULLET FROM HEAD.
heaviest losers. A large quantity of
Doctor Performed Serious Operation on
Alleged Wife Slayer.
Quincy. Mass.. Feb. 4. After a most
delicate surgical operation at the t,inin
cy City hospital yesterday afternoon, a
bullet was taken out of the bead of
Frank Colletti. charged with murdering
;,. J.ji' iepiemoer at uiiKes-isarre. ra, : i,u w,f.. Knt attempting suicide in West)
application od in the rear of 274 Uiver street and owned and were ratified last week by the Cnit-j yim.v, ,Tlin. 20. The surgeons found
by the Union Furniture company was c'1 Une " "rke" eonvention at Indian- j it nPar the base of the skull close to
consumed. Several other business places aP'"19- , , . the mastoid Isine behind tlie right ear.
suffered loss from smoke and water and I 1,1 lo l'"'lr employes signcl ny j rflrt nf ti,0 bone had been badly smashed
the
duty in the library, readme rooms and'0f Montreal. Mme. Morin of Beauce nil'wn'l'n ' P,n 'w- probably having late yesterday, according to advi.-cs re
corridors which surround the cmmons j ime, Imsault of Quebec. The only one I n,'r bearings in the fog. The Zep- reived line. The garrison was comelled
on all four sides. f j),e t,r,. t Mme. Pus- l'''n w' bombarded by the guards it to retire, it was said. The railroad has
When the doors of the chamber were unit !, ;,. . i, firm..n" ... iwas added. imre than ."0 -hots being been cut ami the teleyraph lines to?n
thf ltllililinir owned hv tliA Knii.iita nf
r-.,l, rn-aa 1, .-.,.. .....l I, ....... . ....M 1111
" nin an urn. ......i tdll
able piece of fire fighting apparatus in
the city was pressed into service and
it was not until a late hour that the
blaze was under control.
SIX MEN MISSING.
After Explosion in Plant of Craig Oil
Co. at Toledo.
Toledo. O., Feb. 4. An explosion fol-
lieads of 1:1 anthracite companies
i- .vail i8"'i approved ai tiieir meetini: vester-
: mji ii. is mat to ihiii oic
j wage increase would mean an advance
to the consumer of GO cents a ton for
domestic sizes of anthracite. The oper
ators declare that the anthracite indus
try is being conducted "on as low a
margin of profit as is possible H tlie
operators are to continue to serve the
public."
rqned the great room filled almost in-.hen firemen reached the sneaker's ' fir'"1 ' ,"'r' ,im" of hich it was be- dow n. destr-jyirg communication withhowed bv tire in the plant of the ("raj..
.tint!. i 1. ! .. A . 1. .. 1 . , . 1 ,. . . . ... I I . . . I 1 ' . I :...!.' 1. : 1 , . . I . . . TL. - M. .i t I . 1
by the bullet and the brain bad been
diiihtly injured in one spot.
Colletti came out of the ether in fair
ly pood shape, but his condition was rai l
to lx- onlv fair.
TAKE UP NEW PROPOSITION
sfantly with smoke and the legislators rooms they found Mme. Bray and Mmf.!1'""1 ,lit '"hip. which ultimately
ni'he.1 for the doors. Spttors n the Morin inwrn-ible. Thev .r .L..n fr.." IdisappeareJ to the northward.
gallery, panlcstriiken. stampeded for tj. building and phvsicians were sum
the exits at the same time. Attendants CTone,i, ho applied 'pulmotors in tain
came stumbling thrown the smoke-filled .After a half ' our. the women were pro
corridor from all parts of the building. I nounced dead.
Minister of Agriculture Rurrell was The flames from the burning FajJia
PTerrom be made bis way through Jrnent building were sm two mile aav
the thick of the smoke and fell just in at Rideau ball, the residence of thr rinVe
irr-n ot me pnstomoe. Me was picked up f Cnnam.t. governor p. neral of Can-'born in Is-1 l,o belong to the cavalry
by luirwrt i.oge?,
ITALY CALLS MORE MEN.
Those Born in 1881 Wo Belong to Cav
alry and Other.
Rome, i Paris, Feb. 4. All the men
liiarer.. 1 lie aarrison i ilia .Anumaila. 1 1,1 ,minr luri. rr.in.ln- .f.,rnn..
about :;o mile, south of .luarcz. is on the j resulted in 'an estimated bs of nearly
way t reinforce the Carranza tnvps :;,.ismi and crioidim? of tl idf,f fr
at M' t. riiins. and the troops were l-o
sent Iron; .Inure late veterdnr.
Willing to Please.
several weeks.
Six men ho were missing hen the
fire broke out have l.wn accounted for.
There were 43 men in the plant when
A certain college president wore eidejthe explosion occurred. The c-ausr ha
whi-kcrs. Wlicnever be ucge-tol re-1 not Urn determined. Fourteen large
moving them there was division of ;oi tank containing rnide oil re -
IV morning be 'stayed. The office was wrcrked.
Fireman A. . Mmne a riou-lr
CIGARETTE CARELESSLY THROWN
Waa Probable Cause of Fire in "Movie"
House at Montpelier.
Starting probably from a
erelesi.ly Cironn into the
lstli. lire damaged the Obi
cigarette
entrance
For Abolishing the Grade Crossing at
Tabor's.
minister of public a1a. Th'" duke summoned hi ko,n..t..M bare Iwn rir.jl!e.t to tic colors. Men ono.ion in lw fnn!r
i f 1 - : . . . . .. , . .... I ... I
"'" " - iniiui.T ci riiMomo. mi le, all oi nm are wound-d officer ' b- rn in Isj, s3 and 1M ar t 11. ng- -t:terd hi w ife s .!re.irtg r wim. razor in I
ni I'Tri- X'lomiin. -TCTary oi siaie. ji
m lonnd that while hi injuries
rou ke wriil rwciff, I rinwr te- ,nrrl cm II,. I.U. U. I.ax.'-lf tl..nL ii I..L. I -.lt .1 ...-I .,. k i ....
Mr. Bunrll bad be-n working ia kil (C-aticui on elth r.i-l h.. n r:'i th- "..,. r , I. .- - r., i i.: . ,.t ...-. : r.-i."";.., .1 . ii.L'
theatre building in Montpelier last nigl.t
to the extei.t ot ..". the os being con
lined to the booth. It m after tlie la-t
how in the theatre an I patron and at
tifhcs bad gone borne when tSe fire wa
'The Vermont public service commis
sion held a session at t'ie State ntie it
Montpelier today on tie question of c
tablisbing an underpass at the Tabnr
irossing Ix-twecn Rarre and Montpelier.
At pretioii eiin a projiosition was
presented, which was not considered n-
tomujiie tirely witi'taetory. una the purpose ot
tlm H--ion today wa to lake up con--iierat'on
of a new proposition.
Clerks' Notice.
lifci xercd bv a pcrbv. The tiremen
invalided from the front, and thrv mo-' ir.g to tie rninwr regenent and m-n t hand, w it It l.i rigl t cheek Vtared smooth injured when one of the tanks T.lew up. 'made short woik ot tie Ire. The r.rn-
ete tored w ift V nto the it v. but w r 111. bo n in I V" and tw ;r to I r en? li.j- von II. if Ar.tr t. .L.I ' v.. - V n,til a inn.. I-.,..... ..a ... t ., .- I in ). Hurl .....I..., XI ..... ,!
l"r lnnrn -e ctnij-ariy tliroiiph tie Mc-'-l. r or cr Mi TiKniaina
A'ii-ter Si Kent aj-tjey of lrre. Red. S-.
There will 1 a regular meeting of t!"l
H. C. I. V. A., local -.Ml. Friday.' I eh. 4,
at i :3n p. m. JTfrr atten-inm-e riuet-
Ke o,
I
