V ,1
. A a .A A 5r? . A
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS SrST
AMICABLE A0JUSTW1ENT
SEEMS HAftY POSSIBLE
America Must Waive Demand i disavowal of Lusitania
Sinking, Or Submit To Arbii a by The Hague Tri-
' bunal, So Berlin Correspondent Asserts German Peo
ple Oppose Concessions Ambassador Von Bernstorff
Surprised At New Turn Negotiations Haye Taken
State Officials Not Optimistic
By Carl W. Ackerman
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
' Berlin, Feb. 4. Unless America waives her demand
for disavowal of the Lusitania torpedoing, or agrees to
submit the case to The Hague for arbitration, an
amicable adjustment thereof is impossible, in the unan
imous view today of officials and newspapers.
The Lokal Anzeiger, one of the most influential papers
here, declared that Germany has done her utmost" to
prove her friendship for the United States and that she
cannot admit that the sinking of the big liner was a vio
lation of international law.
Though a semi-official announcement a few days since
said that instructions had been forwarded to Ambassador
Von Bernstorff at Washington which gave reasonable as
surance for a positive understanding, the general feeling
here has veered from that viewpoint since. The con
sensus of opinion is that Germany has gone as far as she
can in trying to settle the situation.
' Officials, however, hope that Colonel House, President
Wilson's envoy, may be able to present the German atti
tude as correctly as possible so that an amicable settle
ment may be reached.
Colonel House will take back to President Wilson
some mild criticisms of the
that it makes its diplomatic moves with too much noise,
it is reported here. American officials have told the
colonel that probably more might be accomplished in deal
ings with the central empires if greater secrecy were
used. For instance, it was pointed out that Austrian of
ficials have been leary of discussing some affairs with
Ambassador Penfield inasmuch as press reports of in
structions to him in the past have been printed in Vienna
before these orders reached Penfield.
Washington, Feb. 4. Ambassador
Von Bernstorff 's instructions from
Berlin in the Lusitania case are under
stood to have been that be should make
it clear to the l.'nited States that Ger
many will not specifically admit the
Lusitnoin torpedoing was illegal, as
America demands.
His instructions were presented tiiis
afternoon to Secretary of State Lans
ing. If their 11 minute conference
w:is intended to stave off a rupture of
icl.itions. it was futile.
Afterward, a break in diplomatic re
lations between the two nations was
freely predicted. The only loophole
miiigcsted was that the ISerlin foreign
office hud found a way to comedo the
point without appearing to do so. be-i-ause
of the construction of German
Jeaal jnguage.
One of the difficulties in the way of
disavowing tiie incident lies in the
lack of an exact German equivalent for
tiie word "disavow."
1 tot li Ambassador Iicrnstorff and
Si cn'tary Lansing said alter their brief
conference that the result w.is un
changed. Neither would discuss the
meeting in detail, but neither concealed
tiie fact that it had not succeeded in
Abe Martin
4
r.
A diastmns fire swept th hi me
' liev. Wiley ' Tanger, last night,
caused by th' faulty insulation of a
celluloid collar. Don't a feller feel
j.icd after he decides his overcoat 'II
Is t another niutert
W 1'
administration on the ground!
cimnsjing the difficult status of the re
lations between the two nations.
Another conference is likely after
President Wilson has considered a re
port from his personal envoy, Colonel
House" and the instructions given Bern
storff. The latest communication from Ber
lin was the subject of this disturbed
feeling. It was understood Secretary
of State Lansing had sent to President
Wilson the report of Ambassador Ger
ard regarding the officail attitude at
Berlin.
Moreover, dispatches from Vnited
Press Correspondent Ackerman at Ber
lin tod .iy served to confirm official
views that at least a large part of the
German people are opposed to grant
ing deninnded concessions.
Anything But Optimistic.
The view of officials here was any
thing but optimistic. Thev know that
the president will not yield in his
terms. Further, lie has indicated in his
addresses through the midwest that 1
Lusitania crises may develop; the gov
ernment feels that it cannot "dicker"
longer and that an understanding must
be reached this month.
The next, two days may determine
the fate of German-American relations.
Coincident with the president's re
turn this afternoon, Ambassador Von
Bernstorff expected to receive his lat
est instructions from Berlin regarding
tiie case and he hoped to be able to
present them to Secretary of State
Lansing either late this afternoon or
toniorow morning.
Bernstorff Surprised.
Ambassador Von Bernstorff did not
conceal his surprise and concern when
shown the Ackerman message this fore
noon, but he withheld comment. Oth
er embassy authorities said tlicy could
not understand how Foreign Secretary
Von Jagow had permitted such def
inite views to get out, but they were
silent when it was snggested that the
censorship hail been lifted as soon as it
wis known that cither the report of
Colonel House or Ambassadr Gerard
iia l reached the president.
Confers With Lansing.
Waslu'ngtn, Feb. 4. Ambassador
Von Bernstorff arrived at Secretary of
State Lansing's office at 3:5.1 p. m.
with the memorandum from Berlin re
garding the Lusitania negotiations and
was immediately admitted.
Leaving at 4:0il the ambassador
would not discuss the situation.
GUARDS STRENGTHENED.'
Washington, Feb. 4. Fear that
cranks inspired to inccndiaruin by the
destruction of the Ottawa parliament
j buildings might attempt to wreck the
Icapitol here, caused the police to
I strengthen the capitol guard force.
fM0US OLD GENERAL PUTNIK CARRIED IN BOX DURING 8
FAMOUS OLlJ JRBIAN retreat THROUGH ALBANIAN ALPS
.'A
Retreating Serbians in Albaniajarrying General Tutnik in box.
This is one of the most tragic plntos of the war. Marshal Putnik, the aged Serbian commander-in-chief who
distinguished himself in many Serbian campaigns and who was the. directing genius of Serbia's determined fight
against Austria, was forced to drink the bitter dregs of defeat. - Enfcbled ly age and the strain of battle against
superior Teuton odds, the old commander was unable either to mount a horso'or walk. An improvised rickshnw
was secured and the old general retreated with his army through the Albanian Alps on the shoulders of his faith
ful followers.
BE
EARLY
This Outcome of Campaign
Is Freely Predicted By
Political Observers
Aboard Tresideut . Wilson's Special
Train En Route to Washington, Feb. 4.
President Wilson's preparedness pro
gram will be adopted by congress be
fore the end of JIarch, those close to
him predicted freely today. Whether
this forecast was based on the enthus
iasm which greetej his speeches
throughout the middle west or was in
the light of international developments,
could not be learned.
The fundamental theme of his pro
gram stands as maintenance of per
sonal and business rights of America.
The president was due in Washing
ton early this afternoon and it was un
derstood he will soon begin plans for a
southern trip. While he holds that the
middle western trip "far exceeded the
most optimistic expectation," his
friends believe that he should go farth
er west and through "the south to arouse
those portions of the country for pre
paredness. The enthusiasm with which the presi
dent has been greeted was equalled by
the welcome his wife received. She has
kept a watchful eye on him, in nddition
to appearing with him at his speeches,
but despito her attention he is suffer
ing from a'slight cold.
President Reaches Home.
Washington, Feb. '4. Prosident Wil
son returned here at 1:.10 o'clock this
afternoon from his middle western pre
paredness trip.
The president did not appear weary,
and his wife was fresh and cheerful.
"It hna been a most interesting
trip," said the president ns ho shook
hands with all members of the party. .
Former Claim Agent
Found Gulity of Forgery
Olympia, Wash., Feb. 4. John P.
Gillies, former claim agent of the state
industrial Insurance department, was
found guilty at 10:,10 o'clock this
morning of forgery in the first degree
by a jury which deliberated since 8:15
o clock last night.
This is the first of a series of charges
filed against Gillies and two alleged
confederates, Frank W. Stone and J.
W. Kearns. It is claimed that hetween
them the state was looted to an amount
of 15,000 to $25,000.
Gillies announced he would appeal
to the snpreme court.
: THE WEATHER J
rvtuGim,?)
Oregon: To
night nnd Satur
day rain south
west, rain or
snow northwest,
and snow east
portion; not so
cold noith por
tion; n ind.i most
ly easterly.
- bt; -
OTTAWA PARLIAMENT
BUILDING DESTROYED
WITH LOSS OF LIFE
DISASTROUS FIRES 0
Fire destroyed the Gothic parliament buildings at Ottawa, with
known loss of six lives and property damage in the millions.
Six dead and one missing in fire that wrecked the palatial home of
Mrs. Casimir Taj; at New York.
Five perished in x fire nt the Overbrook hotel, Atlantic City.
Ottawa, Out., Feb. 4. The giant
Gothic parliament buildings here stand
today a gaunt smoking ruin, while six
persons are known" to have lost their
lives, as the result of a fire that swept
through the structure during the night.
Shortly before 3 a. m. the lire had
been controlled, though flames still
dimly flickered through the senate
side." The great library appeared like
ly to be safe.
The dead:
Mcsdames Bray and Morin, guests of
the wife of Speaker Sevigny, cut off
in apartments of the speaker's suite.
Alph D-cs Jardins, a dominion police
man. Robert Fanning, a waiter.
Two other men buried when a section
of wall collapsed.
Included in the list of injured were
several officials.
The origin of the conflagration is a
mystery, though officials who under
took an investigation immediately sus
pected incendiarism, possibly German.
However, as policemen guarded both
doors of the Commons reading room
where the fire began, and other police-
I men were inside, it would nave Been
particularly rtifricnlt tor anyone to
start the fire undetected. At the samo
time there were stories of explosions at
the outset, giving perhaps tangible sup
port to a bomb theory.
Damage Is $4,000,000.
The fire, which caused damage esti
mated at from $4,000,000 to $j,000,000
began in the reading joom about 0:00
o'clock last night. The flames were
soon shooting in spirals through the
Gothic towers, and spreading sparks
some distance beyond. The red light
against the sky could be seen for miles.
Great blankets of firo rolled rapid
ly through the structure. At midnight,
the tower chimes boomed out above the
roar of the flames but an hour and a
half later the tower crumbled with a
crash audible for blocks. Long be
fore this, both tiie senate and commons
chambers had liecn wiped out.
Volunteer fire brigades and the full
city department were unable to make
nn impression on the fire, so aid was
, hurried from Montreal by special train.
Colonel John l ume, who distinguish
ed himself in the battle of St. Julien
proved himself a hero when, rushing
from the flaming building, he organ
ized parliament members, police and
telegraph operators into a volunteer
squad. Heedless of the smoke and the
fire, the colonel dashed Into the build
ing at the head of this force, and led
the work of fighting the fire with em
ergency hose.
The first word of the fire came just
before 9 o'clock as a handful of legis
lators were debating a fisheries meas
ure. Members scrambled for safety,
while gallery spectators, in a panic,
made for the exits.
Women Trapped By Fire.
The fire trapped Mme. Sevigny, the
speaker's wife, in her suite with her
two children and three guests. Mme.
Bray and Mme. Morin were found un
conscious; physicians tried vainly to
resuscitate them.
Mjne. Sevigny calmly cared for her
children first. Standing in the window
outlined darkly against the flame, she
screamed at firemen below, who hast
ened to spreS'l life nets. Then she
hurled the children Bafely to the net,
and deliberately plunged herself out of
the window. Mme. DiiBsault, the third
.' - .!V$
rw. .:. .. i
i
F THE PAST 24 HOURS
guest, followed safely, but the other
two women, apparently hysterical, fail
ed to escape.
High Officials Escape.
Minister of Agriculturo Burrell was
alone in his private office at the first
alarm. Groping his way nut into cor
ridors, already dense with smoke, he
stumbled part way down me hall, only
to be rescued by the Becretury of state,
the minister of public works, nnd the
minister of customs. Doctors said he
would recover.
Premier Borden fled uninjured. Fred
erick V. Pardee, liberal whip, at first
thought to have died, was later re
ported to be out of the city. Dr. Mich
ael Clark, M. P., was burned in
groping through tiie flames for his
coat, while William S. Loggie, M. P.,
was reported missing.
Members Are Heroic.
Staid members of parliament showed
that they were made of heroic stuff.
General Hughes, militia minister, res
cued .1 number of persons and at once
called out an overseas regiment to po
lice the lines.
Many men and women, dining in the
restaurant, found egress cut off ex
cept through windows at one corner of
a corridor. Pale and panicky, they
seemed ready to jump before life nets
could be rigged. Above the tumult,
firemen and officnils warned against
this course, meantime running up ex
tension ladders and bringing out the
people.
J Mayor Martin of Montreal, two oth
er memoers, anil a policeman claimed
today that the fire was preceded by
sharp explosions and that it spread
with terrible rapidity. This seemed to
strengthen the bomb theory, but auth
orities are not certain yet that the ex
plosions were not duo to spontaneous
combustion.
How Fire Started.
Mrs. Alphonse Verville, wife of a la
I boritc member, was inside the building
when the lire begmi.
"I heard a light explosion," she
said. "It was just a sort of a puff,
bnt the smoke and flames rolled toward
me as I fled."
Members of the house of commons
told today of narrow escapes. Some of
them jumped from windows or groped
through the smoke, forming a human
chain until they found an exit. The
cry of "fire" electrified the chamber.
The speaker jumped from his rostrum
and joined with the others in the mid
rush for the outer doors. Some of the
exits were already blocked by walls of
fire, forcing the men to seek egress at
other points. Some of the members,
trapped on upper floors, leaped into
life nets below.
The front and side walls of the sen
ate side of the buih';ng remain stand
ing, while the library, containing price
less volumes is untrouched.
The building rost $4,000,000 to build,
but is is estimated that it would re
quire double that amount to replace it.
Arrangements for holding sessions of
parliament elsewhere are being made,
but nothing has been arranged about
rebuilding.
Not Incendiarism.
Colonel Sherwood, head of the domin
ion polieo, declared thnt rumors of. in
cendiarism were "impossible as the
fire started right under a policeman's
nose." He explained the rapid spread
of the flames because of the fact that
the reading room was full of pnpers.
r I v i
1 ib: tli ' I
' .( :B
E
WEATHERMAN SAYS
Snow SHil Falling In Many
Parts of Northwest Seat- """"
tie Advices Say bf
:
Portland, Or., Feb. 4. The worst
of the storm may be yet to como, said
thn weatherman today in spite of the
fact that the prolonged snowstorm and
sleet haw have exceeded all records for
duration and damage.
With the exception of wireless, Port
land yesterday was practically shut off
from communication with the outside
world. Thousands of feet of "duplex"
insulated wire have been rushed to
Portland to lay- along tho ground,
bridging hugo paps . where telephone
ami telegraph lines have been torn
out.
Snow fell continuously last night. It
had censed this morning, bu more is
I'i'uicicii iuiiuv ii mi me coin continues.
The sleet and thaw, which were re
sponsible for most of tho damage in
Portland, have gone.
Fifty per cent of the Btreet car lines
were able to operate today, officials
announced. Several thousand people
still are stranded downtown. Automo
biles cannot negotiate the huge snow
drifts nnd scores of them have been
abandoned in the streets.
After business men held an indigna
tion meeting yesterday, Mayor Albce
issued a call for one thousand men to
showel snow off the principal busi
ness streets. He got four thousand.
Schools will be closed until Monday,
it was announced today.
Stores opened late and closed early,
practically no business being trans
acted. Theatres and hotels did a rush
ing business.
Trains reached Portland slowly to
day after rotary plows had cleared
the tracks.
Damage to wires, buildings and trees
as a result of the storm is estimated
at $200,000.
Snow Storm Continues.
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 4. Snow fell
steadily last night and continues to
fall today everywhere in this state
with the exception of tho immediate
vicinity of Seattle.
Idaho and British Columbia are in
tho grip of the storm nnd the weather
indications aro that the worst of the
blizzard is yet to come.
There is no indication of warmer
weather for Borne time.
All trains stalled by the snow storm
in the mountains were reported safo
by local railway headquarters hero to
day. Rotary snow plows have been work
ing 24 hours a day in an effort to
clear the way into Seattle. Northern
Pacific trains are expected to get
into the city late today and Great
Northern westlwund trains will be
pulled through by midnight, it is be
lieved. Twelve hundred shovelers have aug
mented tho rotary plows in clearing the
Northern Pacific tracks over the
mountains.
Snow stopped falling in the moun
tains at 4:30 o'clock Thursday morn
ing. Milwaukee rotaries aro battling up
tho summit from Garcia. A 400 foot
snow slido took place there yesterday
afternoon. One rotary was wrecked.
Business Is Hampered
Tacoma, Wash., Feb. 4.-r-Business
was still badly hampered and traffic
conditions were little improved today,
with every indication of a resumption
of the snow storms that have pre
vailed almost without cessation here
for many days.
Although largo crews of men toiled
all night and flnow plows were sent out
at frequent intervals, few street cars
operated early today and thousands of
persons wnllied to thoir work.
The first eastern mail to reach
since Tuesday is expected to arrive
late todny, being routed ovor .North
Bank road via Portland. No trains
have como in over the direct lines
across the Cascades.
' Deliveries of fuel and provisions are
being mado with great difficulty.
Schools are open today but the at'
tendance is very light.
Soldiers Assist In Work.
Victoria, B. C, Feb. 4. Soldiers are
leading the work, in the attempt to
dig the city out of the snow. The
snow is idled more than 10 feet deep in
ninny places.
The dnmago here has been slight,
the most serious being the collapse of
tho roof of the mess house at the Wil
lows barracks. No one was injured.
Coliseum Caves In.
Bremerton, Wash., Feb. 4 Tho roof
of tho coliseum, where Pacific reserve
fleet sailors have staged dances for
the last three years, caved in under the
heavy snow yesterday afternoon. The
loss was f J,000. .o one was injured.
Workmen Art Lijiini
Wnlla Walla, - Wash., Feb. 4. With
possibly one exception, all seven work
men injured in a snow slide on the
O. W. li. & X. near Kiparia will re
cover, the physicians at the hospital
here report, the avalanche buried 30
AUSTRIAN
RAIDS
INDICATE GREAT
AERIAL ACTIVITY
Tma Reports That Alban-
tm Cities Are Attacked
From Air
RUSSIAN AND AUSTRIAN
AIRSHIPS FIGHT BATTLES
London Claims Germany Has
Lost Twenty-One Zeppelins
To Date
Vienna. Feb. 4. Raids on Avion
and Durazzo, Albania, were reported
in today's official statement which de
tailed the greutest Austrian aerial act
ivity since the war started.
'.rive Austrian aeroplanes -on Janu
ary 25 attacked Durrazo said tho state
ment, "and then two attacked on Wed
nesday and three on Thursday. Thesa
shelled the camps with marked success.
"Ihree aeroplanes shelled tne Ital
ian encampment at Avlona Wednes-
lay. The motor of one was struck and
it was forced to head out toward tho
sea. J ho commander or anotnor drop
ped down besido the machine and res
cued the aviators."
Other raids on the Galiciun front
were detailed.
In these, Russian aud Austrian air
squadrons fought battles high in the
skies. ,
"Russian infantry raids northeast of
Boyon failed," the statement con
tinued. "Livoly artillery action oc
curred on the Italian front. .
"Austrian vanguards reached dis
tricts west, of Kruova, (20 miles from.
Durazzo.) ' '
i
Twenty-One Zeppelins Taken.
London, Feb. 4. Twenty-one Zep
pelins and eight other German diri
gibles havo been, destroyed or lost since
the start of (he war, according to es
timates today by experts in com
menting on the reported disasted to a
Zopnclin in the North sea.
The roport that ono was seen in a.
sinking condition there, is believej to
be true, thought Berlin officials claim
ed thnt the Monday night raiders re
turned safely.
The Mail approved the action of the
trawler thnt found tho airship in not
taking off the crew, inasmuch ns these
might have outnumbered the sailors.
"The German has proved," said the
paper, "that nobody dare trust him."
Submarines Change Flags.
London, Feb. 4. Submarines operat
ing in the Mediterranean are believed
to be shielding their identity, by nsinsr
both German and Austrian flags. Whea
attacking British vessels, they appar
ently use the German flag, but when
meeting Italian ships, they fly the Aus
trian emblem, inasmuch as Germany is
not at war with Italy.
The report of the captain on the TAQO
ton British liner Commodore today de
clared that x submarine sank his ship
Wednesday in the Mediterranean after
nnfurlinir the German flag. He said,
however, she carried a second flag, un
doubtedly the Austrian and flew tba
German flag only after ascertaining
the nationality of the Commodore.
Germans On Greek Border.
London, Fcb. 4. Two German regi
ments, the first to appear on the Greek
border, have arrived Aorth of Lak
Doiran, according to Salonika dispatch
es today an J have replaced Bulgaria
troops there.
Ihree Turkish regimnets and four
sqiiRdrnna of cavalry have arrived at
(iumuldjina.
. .v
Pruflfrian Losses Hery.
London, tFeb. 4. Prussian losses ia
dead, wounded and missing men bava
reached the enormous total of 2,337,009.
according to Copenhagen reports to tl
Man today. These said that over 3t,
000 casualties were recorded during th
past month.
Sweeney Gets Leave.
London, Feb. 4. Lieutenant Chariest
Sweeney, a Cnlifornian, wounded in
foreign legion's participation in the
French drive during September in taa
Champagne, has been granted leave of
absence to visit America, said Paris ad
vices today.
Fear Swede Invasion..
Copenhagen, Feb. 4. Petrograd re
ports today admitted strong concentra
tion of Slavs in northwestern Russia,
but denied that this move was due to
a belief thnt Sweden is planning an in
vasion via Finland.
men, but after three hours work the
rescuers succeeding in digging them
Out.
8t. Mary's Church Falls.
Seattle, Wash., Feb. 4. Weighted
down Ly its heavy load of snow at
the tower and roof of the old St.
Mary church on Lane street, between
Twelfth and 21st avenues, caved in
late yesterday afternoon No one was
injured. The damage was estimated at
,000. The, church was built in 130U
