wniimiyiumMi ww"' ' ym
vwiimwmw wywwmiwmm&i$t mmmmmsmis
FINANCIAL EDITION
aie&ger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
;EWUIJk J-H-H
:c:
vi
VOL.II.-NO.134
i
PHILADELPHIA, TJIUBSDAY, IflBBItUARY 17, 1910.
CerrsiauT, 1010, tt tn Pcaua Lzoozs Cottritrt.
PRIOB OK-EJ OMNT
mBgHpmmmWm&n&mmiumjmi i iuiuoiuijih.
Th F
i!
3
I
"8
TEUTONS BUILD
GREAT PLANES
TO CONTROL AIR
fc.M, I. ll..
B'lThirty Giant Fokkeitf Ad
ded Uracil vveeit to uer
man Aerial Fleet
PROTECTED BY ARMOR
K Now Types Replace RniderB on
West I'Tonc; uia unes
t Sent to East
LONDON, Feb. 17. Englnnd Iind
pn opportunity in 1913 to secure the
Fokkcr aeroplane which Germany is
, now using with conspicuous success,
' but rejected it. Announcement to this
effect was made in Parliament today
' by A. J. Tcnnant, ifndcr Sccrctnry of
War.
AMSTERDAM, Fob 17.
t I ....ol.m Imaa nit. ftnnt nf
ft, Germany is raurusuip, nw
B ...-, . nf an nnrnnlnnes n week. The
f new high-powered Fokker machines nrtfT
western front, Jlio mnjoilty of tho old-
tyre nltcrnft bclnsr sent to tno cast ironc,
to Turkov, to tho Balkans nntl tho Aus-trd-Itnllan
front.
UDon tho occasion of his recent visit
k). to Nlsh, tho German Emperor mailo a
t ' nresent of 13 aeroplanes to the Bulgarian
irmy. These are now manned ny Her
mans, but a training school has been
established at Sofia to teach Bulgarian
aviators the workings of the German
machines. .'
Aeroplanes aro now being turned out
by the Krupp factory at Essen as well
as arms and munitions. Ono great manu
facturing plant, which built Pullman cars
for' the stato railways before tho wnr, Is
now specializing on air craft and Is turn
ing out nothing but aeroplane parts.
The FoUltor aeroplane Is said to be tho
greatest air machine ever produced. It
Is durable and very speedy and Is pro
tected by a belt of heavy armor. Tho
Germans have Introduced a now steel In
tho manufacture of tho Fokkcrs, tho
talient characteristics of which are ex
treme lightness and very great strength.
As a result of this discovery, a higher
ratio of horsepower per pound of weight
has. been secured, whllo the carrying ca
pacity per square foot of wing surfaco
haulso reached unprecedented figures.
The combination has onablcd a. higher
powered engine to bo Installed, which. In
turn, secures greater speed, whllo at tho
same tlmo It lias conduced to tho mount-.
lnir of a more formidable typo of quick-
,.jirnB gun for defensive and aggressive
Th Fnlcknr has been spoken of by
SSTSrltlsh airmen ns a "chaser.'" They claim
that It Is not adapted to offensive tactics.
ut this vlow Is not held by tho Merman
.War omco. They aro using tho Fokkers
for every kind of service known to aerial
activity.
The Fokkorls not a bomb-dropplns ma
chine, but It has been put to that use by
th6 Germans, on the latest zeppcnn ram
tha ble dirigibles were convoyed by a
squadron of Fokkers that circled through
the sky watching for hostile aeroplanes.
Each Fokker carried a wireless outnt
by which tho observer can keep In con
stant touch with his homo baso whllo
aloft.
AVIATORI RUMENI SU
.TERRITORIOBULGARO
TJh Volo di Ricognizione Rivela
Che In Bulgaria Prepara la
, Difesa Contro la Rumania
Un telegramma da Bucharest dice cha
M.QOO soldatl bulgarl e tedeschl sono con-
t;l etntratl sulla frontlera dclla Rumania.
, ijnformazlone in raccolta tin tro avia-
; tori rumenl che fecero un volo dl rlcognl
l llgne attra verso la llnca dl confine bul
i taro-rumena recandosl su terrltorlo bul
'. iaro. Questl a via tori mllltarl rnpporta
'frono al loro quartlere genernle cho le
;j forze bulgaro-tcdesche Bono Impegnnte
Mlla construzlono dl trlncee, ma che non
l kanno, pare, con loro artlglleria pesante.
f Vn vlQlento fuoco dl artlglleria fu aperto
, dalle forze bulgaro-tedeacho contro gu aero
; plan! rumenl, ma git avlatorl potottero
i rlattttraversare la frontlera senza dannl.
Quroto atto costltulsce dl gla' una prova
I' ii quello che la Rumania Intende dl fare.
i La, grande piazza forte turca dl Kr
I itrum a' atata conqulstata dallo forze
v ruiap del Caucasa comandate dal grau-
dum. vimIo .h. ,i i.nnnn r.iin in fmrt
prigtonlerl. II resto dell'eserclto turco del
Caueaso, comandato dal maresciallo te
oesco von der Goltz, ha potuto battere In
rUlrata prima dl essere clrcondato dalle
loria russe.
(LHnirA In Ka nnnlna In iilflmM . ntllr
jlettagltate notlzle sulla guerra, In ltal-
, uao.j i
THE WEATHER
Alreadv IhnrA am Mnta nf 1ia pFitnl rA-
1 MTal coming. A Bnow-covered Held and
jaunt, leafless tree look, hopeless and
A4 enough. Tint lhv nrn nnt ripnrl!
-Jaey only aleep; sap and seed are thrill-
" mm tne hope of Bprlng when men
re hopelesB of It, Birds flutter about,
panning their leafy abodes where no
Ves are. while men wnrrv nhaut the
W S,'re pre8ent M"18 ' troublous weather,
V i . ,"'uao uusimaieiy to use- our imag
W, wtlons when It comes to weatHer. There
i (nore Bly foresight about getting and
L 'pending u dime than there la about get-
Ilk "P'ldinir a fine day. On the
Ik .1 r hani1. any bird knows twice as much
wft . " "", iy-ii ao any mail, ,iii,ck vv
JM " heaters that will be allowed to go
We ;. ?QOn a' 'he first springlike day
K of March arrlvesl
ona inen think of the ruBh to light
wtSOWters again when the Inevitable
chill letuma.
FOREGAST
rf?r Philadtlvhia and vicinitv
ntbaUy fair tonight and Friday;
e ,. . i.iiu,iyB ii ttmueiuiuTOi
m ugkt UHst windt.
or details see page 1$.
I.0ST AND roXTND
; iff.. W wM Mid tot ttw rtlurn of dU-
8tur5?t ei.ra14 rla. pUtluuis iiUlos'.. t
-.r?-?. innr a. L.urai
a!hJSTi .'!",J'.r " "!."""
ir-v..-rm - ii.n ".v..fc --
&KI U33. Li)gr Ccntml. .
M 033,
v$mJvmr u ritufN ttiUV- Balifc
i.SSL1' nSSBSLSS1
'IS TORPEDO DESTROYER ROAT
THAT DESTROYS TORPEDOES?'
House Nnvnl Committee Member Puts
Question to Grant
WASHINGTON. Feb. n.-Dcsplle tho
fact that hearings on the naval bill havo
been held almost dally for two months
and ho has attended virtually nil of them,
Representative John ... Connelly, of Kan
sas, recognized as ono of tho nntl-prc-patcdncss
members of tho Naval Affairs
Committee, today nsketl Hear Admiral
Albert W. Grant, "Is n torpedo destroyer
a boat that destroys torpedoes?"
A wilttcn statement by Mr. Connelly,
that nddttlonnl coast defenses and a
larger navy are unnecessary, "becauso thn
people living on tho Attnntlc coast could
retlro behind tho Allcghcnlcs and thoso
living on tho 1'nclP.c could retlro behind
tho Rockies," attracted considerable attention.
KILLED HANDLING WEAPON
Mnn Accidentally Shot Dies on Way
to Hospital
A gunner for whom firearms held a
peculiar fasclnnllon accidentally shot
himself whllo cleaning n revolver this
morning at his home, 2518 South Ilroad
street. Ho Is William H. Vollmcr, a re
tired manufacturer and a member of tho
Jardon Brick Company, Zfith street and
l'nsayunk avenue.
Shuitly before noon the family hoard
a plNtol shot and, on lushing upstairs,
found Vollmcr unconscious, with a bul
let wound In the head. Ho died on the
way to tho Methodist Episcopal Hospltnl.
He was 40 years old and Is survived by a
widow and n 0-yrar-olil son, George.
Strike at Rocbling Plant Grows
TRENTON, Feb. 17. Employes of tho
John A. Rocbllng'H Sons Company In tho
wlro drawing plant at Roebllng, N. J
and at Trenton havo quit In sympathy
,wlth the strike of stokers at tho Trenton
plant for Increased wagea and shorter
hours.. Several of tho departments In
Trenton mills were working last night,
notwithstanding tho strike.
ALLEGED COUNTERFEITER AND GIRL ASSISTANT ARRESTED
v-wa&i.YffiSSiassscrrA4isr w "-?': w'--"! . ..'Z.ZX::ZZm.t .ZZL -..i-.fn, ?.. .....- ....w. ... JXJ:.X1 .-: ...s A IL":. w jj
aaaaCTg?l.M-.smtt.iiiT..vi,r'iT ' ......' ..........'. .- '- .
Louis Cipparona (wcarinpr cap) and Besslo Brown, 18 years old, aro shown in charge of detectives after
tho seizure of counterfeiting npparatus at their rooms, at 239 South 9th street.
LOVELORN 'GOOD SPORf
ENDS HIS LIFE IN HOME
OF HIS BENEFACTRESS
"I Would Rather Go Deep Down
in the Ground Than Get
Married," He
Said
WAS SAVED FROM STREET
Morris Bail, an employe of the Stetson
haft factory, committed suicide today In
the homo of the woman who, 12 years ago,
had taken him off the streets, a homeless
newsboy, adopted him. sent lilm to
school and given him every advantage her
means: could afford
"I'd rather die than get married, was
one of the last remarks Ball made, and
for this reason It la thought that his sul.
clde was tha result of an unhappy love
uffa.tr
Bali was 21 years old. He was known
as a "good sport" In the neighborhood;
of 17H North 6th street, where. Mrs.
Bessie Schoenhols has had a rooming
house for many years.
When he was a lively and bright-eyed
little fellow of 10. a boarder at the house
saw Morris crying on Market .
'I've got nobpdy In the world," Bald
young Morris, sobbing, and. tie i man
bought all his papers. As he walked
away he saw the boy was etlll crying,
so he went back and gave the papers
to him to Bell again: and then, deeply
move? decided to take the. lad home and
ask Mrs. Schoenhols If sha could not
flnMdrsa S&'ttok a fancy to the
chll"at once and "MKr,thVt
tW,. Ho was so lively and bright that
all 5 boTrderfcouW not, help llklng
nlm but newould have jocca.lonat periods
boarder whoTadtaken him off the pave-
as a "puller-out?' and worked Q
W ytday. At dinner lat night he was
mhen are" yo" W to 4l.rt.uW
Ceatbfati a J?t? Celww H
CONVENTION HALL
AND FREE LIBRARY
BILLS ARE PASSED
Councils' Approval of
Measures Gives Mayor
Power to Let Contracts
WILL BE ON PARKWAY
Bridge Commission Named to
Confer on Structure Over
the Delaware River
Councils today passed bills authorizing
Mayor Smith to enter into contrncts for
the construction of a Convention Hall nt
21st street and tho Parkway and a Free
Library at 10th and Vino streets.
Tho estimated cost of a Convention
Hall comes within the $1, 118,000 linhiuco
nvnllahlo from loan money, whllo the
estimated cost of tho Frcn Library Is
J3.500.000. There Is nvnllablc at this
tlmo Jl.010.000 and provision for tho re
mainder will be Included In future loans
for permanent municipal Improvements.
Ah a part of tho Convention llnll plan
Chnlrman Gaffney, of the Finance Com
mittee. Introduced In Common Council nil
amendment providing for the taking of
additional Innd along the 1'arkwal for
Convention Hnll purpoies and making
tho new boundcrlcn of tho plot, Hamilton,
21st, J2tl streets and the 1'arkway. In
stead of cutting the building at Callow
hill street.
The amendment nlso provides for tho
closing of that portion of Cnllowhjll street
Continued on rnse Three, Column Tour
DIVE IN POOL PROVES
FATAL TO STUDENT
"Tom" England Dies in Bryn
Mawr Hospital After Brave
Fight With Paralysis
"Tom" England, a 16-year-old Haver
ford School student, who was paralyzed
when ho struck his head in diving in
shallow water at tha swimming pool of
the school last Thursday afternoon, died
today In the -ryn -awr Hospital. The
boy's full namo was Thomas Y. England,
and ho was the eon of Mrs. James W.
England, of St. Davids.
The death of "Tom"' England wns a
blow to the Main .tne preparatory school.
Tho schoolmates of the boy had hoped to
the last that his life might be saved.
Physicians were In constant attendance.
The boy's pluck was described as remark
able. Unable to move any part of his
body below the nrmplts, he lay helpless,
but smiled up cheerfully at the hospital
attendants and spoke to doctors Vubout
"getting better."
An X-ray examination showed that
there was no break in the vertebrae, but
It was known that the spine was gravely
Injured near the base of the brain. This
Injury had caused the paralysis. As the
days went by this paralysis seined likely
to be permanent. The boy had, of course,
no Intimation of this from his nurses.
Dr. John If. Gibbon and Dr. Francis T,
Stewart, prominent surgeons of thjs city,
and Dr. J. Packard Laird, of Devon, were
attending the boy,
Try to Save Boy Who Fell Off Roof
Physicians at the Roosevelt Hospital
performed an operation today on three-year-old
James Jones, of 23 North 8th
street, In the hope of bringing about his
recovery after Injuries received when he
fell from, the roof of his home. The boy,
who is a son of Mrs. Catherine Jones, haB
a fractured skull. He was playing yes
terday with, six-year-old Charles Morln,
Ml North 8th street, when he fell from
tha roof.
Pennsylvania Postmasters Confirmed
WASHINGTON, Feb. IJ.-The' Senate
today confirmed these J ennsylvaaU post
office nominations: Ch&rUa Vf. Brts
ftnger. Berlin: MUtoa A. Miller. Bilxabtth
vlUei Cbwrlits VT, Jtu&eaOaUf muersbuxjft
HOPE FOR SETTLEMENT
0FJHNEJJ0NTR0VERSY
Opcrntors of Thrco States Yield, With
Western Pennsylvania Holdinjr Out
MOHIM:, Ala., Feb. 17. With the rep
resentatives of toal operators' In thrco
States believed to havo accepted the mlno
run demands of tho United Mlno Workers,
tho minors nro hopeful today they can
force tho western Pennsylvania contin
gent to n settlement beforo adjournment.
The first ngrecment of nliy kind reached
by tho Joint wngo senlo subcommittee
factions, after many lights, waB when
they voted to adjoin n to lew Mobile
harbor.
' Ohio, Indiana nnd 1 lllnols operators'
representatives favor granting tho mlno
run demands, In ordor to proceed to con
sideration of the 10 additional questions
on tho minors'' dcmn.nd list. Tho opera
tors, though, will voto ns a unit, and tho
Plttsburghcrs can frustrate plans. Many
bollovo tho meeting may Inst another
week, although It was scheduled to closo
tomorrow or Saturday.
NEW GRANDSON FOR SUNDAY
"Billy" Mnkcs Wires Hum When Heir
Arrives in West Philadelphia
The stork found Its way through the
snowstorm rnrly this morning to tho
EsseK Apartments, 21th nnd Chestnut
streets, nnd made "Hilly" Sunday the
proud possessor of another grandchild,
when a nine-pound baby was born to Mrs.
George Sunday. Iloth tho baby and Mrs.
Sunday aro doing finely.
When "Hilly" was told tho glad news
nt Trenton, today, ho made tho wires hum
with a long-dlstnnco telephone messnge
of congratulations and well wishes. Tho
new arrival will bo called John Mason
Sunday, nftcr the mother's father. This
la George Sunday's second child, tho first
boy being 2 cars old.
Prohibits Exportation of Wood Pulp
WASHINGTON, Feb. 17. Denmark. U
tho Stato Department was advised today,
has prohibited the exportation of wood
pulp and heavy paper.
1 Ledger I'hotn l'atrol
GIRL AND SWEETHEART
NAta) ON CHARGE OF
MAKING BOGUS DIMES
Youth Taken in Raid on Alleged
Counterfeiting Plant and
"Pal" Is Arrested in
Oyster Saloon
SEIZE COMPLETE OUTFIT
An 18.year-old girl, demuro and well
mannered, waB arrested today with her
young sweetheart, accused of conducting
a counterfeiting plant.
A -nM ...no nn.lA n. Il.a aulnhllulim.lll
,M.U nMO .IIUMR Ull ! i8iuiiu vit.p.
which was on the second floor of uJ
furnished room house at 239 South 9th
street, at 2 o'clock this morning. Four
policemen entered the room with drawn
pistols and arrested a man, who gave
tho name of Louis Cipparona. He Is 28
years old and said he lived at 708 South
Warnock street. lie made no effort to
escape.
The girl was In the oyster baloon of
Thomas O'Toole, a,t 214 South Delhi street,
when the raid was In progress. It was
on O'ToQle's complaint that tha Investiga
tion was conducted by the police of the
ISth and Locust streets station. Accord
ing to his. statement to the police, tha
young woman had given him a bogus
dime several days ago.
She was expected to return to the store,
following her usual custom, at 3 o'clock,
and while Sergeant Williams and Tuck,
Armstrong and Mulhern, plain-clothes
men, were raiding the house several
other policemen awaited the girl's ar
rival at the oyster saloon. She was placed
under arrest there, while her sweetheart
was taken la custody at tha 9th street
address.
The girl, who gave her name as Bessie
Brown, said she lived In the suspected
house. When detectives tried to obtain
Information from her she formed her
pretty lips Into' a pout and refused to
talk.
When the prisoners were brought to the
station bouse thu Federal authorities
were notified Immediately, and a, few
hours later Magistrate Perach held then
CUuaa-oi'ii j Xtro Cwluioa-Oiia
BERLIN DEMANDS
LINERS MUST NOT
ATTACK U-BOATS
Berristorff Tells Lansing
Passengers' Safety De
pends Upon British
HOLD LONG CONFERENCE
Settlement of Lusitania Case
Depends Upon Outcome of
New Controversy
Latest Developments
in Submarine Dispute
UNITKD STATES Requests
written pledge from Germany
through Ambassador von Bernstorff
that the Teutonic Allies ngrce not
to torpedo passcngor liners whether
armed or unarmed without warning.
Sccrctnry Lansing told the Ambass
ndor tho whole question of subma
rine warfare again is under con
sideration and thnt it is the futuro
and not tho past with which the
United States is concerned.
GERMANY Ambassador von
Bernstorff said Germany could not
make such a pledge unless Great
Britain and her Allies in return
pledged that tho Admiralty orders
to British and French merchant
men to ram and resist submarines
shall not operate in the caso of their
passenger liners whether armed or
unarmed.
WlfAT BOTH GOVERNMENTS
ARE DOING United States con
sidering whether it can secure the
pledges asked; Ambassador von
Bernstorff referring entire matter
to Berlin for its decision.
WASHINGTON, Fob. 17.
Great nrltaln must give pledges thnt
passenger liners will not flro on submarines
before Germany will Instruct Its com
manders not to lire on such vessels with
out warning. Tills, In effect, constitutes
a counter-proposal from Germany to the
United States' objection to tho plan to
sink all armed ships after March 1.
This becamo known today following r
20-mlnute Informal discussion of the new
submarine Issues by Sccretnry Lansing
and Ambassador von Hernstorff.
It was learned on high authority that
tho United States nnd Germany nro In
complete accord regarding the Lusitania
controversy, excepting this Government
considers the futuro must be taken care
of as well as tho past. As evldcnco of this
I agreement It was. explained that, the
-termini lliciliuillliuuill ivfeuiuiim Liia pui
tlcment of the Lusitania caso was not
hnnded back to Count von Bernstorff as
Continued on Tans Mrren, Column Two
SLAVS CAPTURE
40,000 TURKS IN
FALLEN ERZERUM
Remainder of Von der
Goltz's Army Flees West
in Utter Rout
MANY GUNS IN BOOTY
PETROGHAD, Feb. 17.
More than 40,000 Turkish soldiers nnd
110 guns were taken by the Husslan army
of Grnnd ttuko Nicholas when the Otto
man base of Erzcrum was enptured, ac
cording to dispatches received here today
from Tlllls.
Tha remainder of tho Turkish army,
which was massed at Erzeruiu ns a base,
Is lleelng westward. It Is believed here.
Tho army consisted of 160,000 men, of
ficered by Germans and commanded bj'
two of tho Kaiser's field marshals, von
der Goltz and Llman von Sanders.
The fortune of the Kaiser's generals
Is not recorded In latest dispatches.
In addition to their captives the Rus
sians took vast quantities of military
supplies which had been gathered at
Erzeruiu for tho Turkish soldiers operat
ing In the Caucasus.
Attempts had been made to destroy
these supplies, but the Russians attacked
with such fierceness and moved so rapidly
In their Mnal attack that the Turks were
unable to prevent the greater part of the
stores falling Into the hands of the
victorious assailants,
The part of the Ottoman army defend
ing Erzerum which succeeded In escap
ing lied In such utter rout that the Rus
sians Inflicted terrific losses upon the
fugitive forces before they were rallied
and strengthened by fresh forces that
had marched from the west.
The Turkish losses In the conflict that
raged for five days about the forts guard
ing Erzerum are said to have been In the
f nyighborhood of 33,000 killed and wounded.
Tims reports stnio mm me Daiue or
Erzerum was the fiercest that has ever
been fought aoout a fortress In. modern
warfare. The Turks fought desperately,
but one by one the mighty forts were
taken by the Russians, who charged with
the bayonet through breaches made by
their artillery. Turkish gun crews were
bayoneted as they were still working
weapons, many refusing to surrender.
Within tne line of forts the Turks, un
der direction of German oftlcem, had con
structed an elaborate system of trenches.
There they made their last stand In de
fense of the city, but from the time that
the forts fell the Issue was never In doubt.
While a curtain of Are from the Rus
sian guns prevented reinforcements being
sent to the troops In the trenches, picked
regiments of the and Duke's army
drove forward.
Unable to retreat, because of the storm
of shells falling- behind them and over
whelmed by tl.e fierceness of tha Russian
attack, tha Turks fougnt on In their
trenches for two days, but when their
ammunition gave out great masses sur
rendered. The capture of Erzerum Is hailed in
Petrograd as one of the greatest victories
ever won by Rus- an troops. The city 1
celebrating the triumph, while military
experts are prediatlng a rapid advance
of Grand Duke Nicholas Into the heart
of Armenia.
From army headquarters. Emperor
Coailautd oa Xf-aurt Culucw Oat
QUICK
1100 WEST VIRGINIA MINERS STRIKE
CUMBERLAND, Md., Feb. 17. Eleven hundred miners In tho
employ of tho David Coal and Coko Company, in tho Upper PotomaC
i iold, have laid down their tools. Seven hundred failed to report yes
tcrday and an additional 400 today. The officials say they nro at a
loss to explain the action of the men, who had been granted a vol
untary increase of 4 1-S cents a ton and 15 cents a day for labor
effective March 1. They had previously received an increase. Tho
lrieu will hold a mass-meeting' this afternoon. There is no disorder.
An amicable settlement is expected.
GERMAN AIRMAN ATTACK DVINSK
BERLIN, Feb. IT. "There has been lively artillery action at
the northern cud of tho eastern front. Our airmen attacked Dvlusk
nnd also the railway at'.Wilhika," tho War Offico reported today.
AMBLER'S NOMINATION PAPERS OUT
Chnrlcs A. Ambler, tho Varo-Urumbaugh candldnto for Auditor General,
today sent out his nomination petitions. Tomorrow Is tho first day for slfrn
Ing nomination papers for tho primary, and Ambler's paper will be circulated
In 11 counties nf tho start. Ono hundred signatures are required In each of
five, counties .for Auditor General.
$9,156,608.71 BALANCE
The weekly statement of CHy Treasurer McCoach shows thnt tho receipts
amounted to $262,554.53 nnd tho payments to J735.747.61, which, with the
amount on hand Inst week, not Including the sinking fund account, left a
balanco of $9,156,608.71 at the close of business Inst night.
PEACE OVERTURES TO BELGIUM DENIED
LONDON, Feb. 17. nccent detailed reports that Germany lins made
pence overtures to Belgium, offering to restore Belgian Independence, wero
officially denied todny In the House of Commons by Sir Edward Grey, tno
British Foreign Minister. At the same time, Sir Edwnrd mild that Belgium
has been pressed by tho English Government to reject any peaco overtures.
PENNINGTON AND MARSH LOSE FIGHT FOR LIFE
George H. Marsh and Rolnnd S. Pennington, convicted of tho murder of
S. LqwIh Pinkerton In Delaware County on November 7, 1913, were refused
a rehearing of their case today by tho State Board of Pardons. They will
be electrocuted next week. Governor Brumbaugh recently granted the men
a respite from death until February 21. Three separate hearings had pre
viously been had beforo tho Board ot Pardons.
WITTPENN ANNOUNCES GUBERNATORIAL CANDIDACY
JERSKY CITY. Feb. 17. Naval Officer II. Otto Wlttpenn formally
nnnounced his candidacy for tho Democratic nomination for Governor today
in a statement In which he pointed out the need of turning the Board of
Guardians out ot tho Stato Houso again and discussed somo other Issues. Ho
said thnt later In tho campaign ho "would present a cotnplctc platform to
tho public.
FLAMESj SWEEP BRIDGEPORT ARMS PLANTS
BRIDGEPORT, Gonn.. Feb. 17. Two firemen wero caught' under a, fall
ing wall and seriously injured nnd thrco main plants ot the Farlst Steet
Company were destroyed by flro early today. The loss wns $300,000. Tho
plant has been ongnged on a largo wnr order for the Remington Arms and
Munition Company.
- . . i
BATTLESHIP PENNSYLVANIA OFF ON TRIAL TRIP
NORFOLK, Feb. 17. The battleship Pennsylvania, tho largest nnd most
powerful sea fighter In the world, went to sea todny on her maiden voyage, Tho
big wnr machine is to havo her trial along tho const nnd when she arrives at
Rockland, Me., she will be subjected to speed tests. She will be at sea nbout 10
days. The Pennsylvania Is manned by a crew selected from tho battleships Ver
mont, Now Hampshire and the receiving ship Richmond, Extra precautions wero
token to guard against accldonts.
GREECE TRANSFERS MILLIONS TO UNITED STATES
NEW YORK, Feb, 17. The Government of Greece Is quietly, but steadily
transferring Its funds from London to New York. According to estimates made
by bankers whose Institutions nro depositories for Greek funds, an excess of
$75,000,000 lins found Its way to this country from London for Greek account
since Greece failed to aid Serbia when that country wns attacked -by Germany,
Austria nnd Bulgaria. While bankers stato that this movement on tho part
of Greece docs not necessarily mean that she intends going to war with Great
nrltaln or severing diplomatic relations with any of tho Entento Allies, it Is
taken ns n precautionary move by King Constantino's Government in case a
break should come.
KHEDIVE ANXIOUS TO QUIT, BERLIN HEARS
BERLIN. Feb. 17. The Overseas News Agency learns that Prince Hussein
has becomo weary of tho throne of Egypt (which Is now" a British protectorate)
nnd that It has been ofterpd to Prince Vussuf, who refused it. A press dispatch
from Anconn, Italy, says th.at General Maxwell, who la military dlcUlof
of Egypt, has wnrned the l4h?dlve that stern measuros must be adopted ogalnat
Senussi tribesmen who mutinied against English rule. The Khedlvo has
requested that a British officer, who recently ordered his troops to flro upoo
tho Senussi tribesmen, ho court-martialed.
BODY OF U. S. CONSUL, PERSIA VICTIM, FOUND
WASHINGTON, Feb. 17. The body of American Consul Robert M. Mc
Neeley, of Monroe, N, C, who was lost when the liner Persia was Hunk in the
Mediterranean, Is thought to have been washed ashore near Alexandria, Amer
ican Consul Garrels tolegraphed the following to the State Department: "Body
washed upon Egyptian coast. Marks on clothes and watch Indicate American
origin. Body possibly Consul McNeeley, Description and marks on clothing
may serve to Identify wearer,"
GERMAN SHIPS IN CANARIES ARMED FOR RAIDS
MOBILE, Ala., Feb, 17, That 11 German steamships Interned In Canary
Island ports have been secretly armed for commerce raiding and will make a
dash for the open sea is the Arm belief of Captain F, E. Magune, ot the Amer
ican schooner Edgar F. Murdock, who delivered a cargo of 2100 tons of coal
to German agents In Tenerlffe, which he saw loaded into tho bunkers of tha
Interned German vessels. The Murdock la in port here. Captain Magune re
fused to give the name of the agents who chartered his schooner to transport
the cargo of .coal from Norfolk to the German vessels The Murdock left Nor
folk on October 29.
GERMANS IN CANADA WARNED AGAINST SEDITION
OTTAWA, Ont Feb. 17. A clear-cut warning to Germans In Canada that
acts of treason, disloyalty or sedition will be mot by -the Government with
stern treatment was uttered In Parliament by General Hughes. The Minister
referred to the disturbances In Berlin, Ont, on Tuesday night, wben soldiers
raided a German hall. He said that tho action of the soldiers was the result
of "exasperation of the loyal citizens." "Let me say," concluded General Hughe,
"that alien enemies have been treated by the Government In tho moat lenieaf
manner, hut utterances and conduct that oven indirectly encourage sedition,
treason or disloyalty will in the futuro not bo tolerated."
FREIGHTER ESCAPES SUBMARINE'S SHELLS
NEW ORLEANS, Feb. 17. Escape from a German ubraarhe after a &
chose of more than two and one-half hours, with occasional shells falltnjc an
her deck, exploding and driving broken pieces of metal Into tho bodlwf of tht
crow, was revealed by officers and men of the Baron Napier, a JBri(Ui& tramp,
steamer of Ardrossan, Scotland. Tho attack occurred oa January It wnuo
tho Baron Napier was four day out from Alexandria, Bgyf t, ynd lor New
Orleans for a cargo of mules. Tho vessel arrived hro today, Votwoexi S3 an 3
(5 American citUt-aa employ l a sau&twra w a&M
NEWS
IN CITY TREASURY
1
M lajl niul y8ti Ads W K
