Viy
Jstm.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
Overcast to-day; fair ta-rtiorrow; mod
erate westerl'v
Highest temperature yeterH33; Jpwest, 20.
dciiiiksi wcainer, injn MuwBorbi un page, 13,
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 170.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1916. CopirfpM, by Ihe Sun Printing and Publlthlng A$ocMion.
BERLIN U BOAT
DEGREE BLOCKS
LUSITANIA CASE
Gcrmnti rinn to Sink
Armed Ships Ileopens Sub
marine Question.
RUSSIANSTAKE
ERZERUM; BIG
ARMY IN FLIGHT
Three of Big Four Plan
to Indorse Root and Ask
Whitman to Join Them
BHsaiBMSsssssssssssisssssiissasiMssM
Wadsworth and Brown for Disregarding Governor, but
Tanner Pleads for Delay and Gets It Secret Meet
ing Is Discovered and Action Postponed.
EFFORT TO JAM THROUGH DECLARATION FAILS
IAN AND
"JEAN CRONES," IN NEW YORK, WRITES HE IS
THE HUNTED CHICAGO BANQUET POISONER
pACSIMILK of n part of his letter, mailed here, in twelve day preparation of the arrenic he "put in
A which he tells of his life in America, his cm- different dishes" served at the dinner to Archbishop
ployment at the University Club in Chicago and his Mundeleln.
BARNES FIGHT
ENDS IN DRAW
Governor (Jets Place Anions
1 Four and 0. K. for
Administration.
Von der Goltz's Forces, Es
timated at UtOMO. Eseupc
Trap Set by Russians.
LONG CONTROVERSY
EXPECTED TO ENSUE
Laiisinr Refuses to Consid
er Teutons Reply to Lu
sitiiiiin Demands.
Wash vi.icis. I'Vh. 1, Germany's
It 'm 1 I c . I tin tir attacking tinned
er.cmy in i-Ii.i titir-i without warning
',-. IV. i it.i.y 2!' .f Interrupird a
munnfit of tiic I.usltanla controversy.
Jinn' ln' that, it leopened the
nir quest, m nf submarine warfare.
In fflft. the German Government, If
It S II x V til'' I'lllll'l) States Hie Mills
fsctk'ii It demands, must practically re
oke II recently proclaimed decree that
inl enemy merchant ships arc to be
fr.inlfil in the future an nuxllhny ships
of r.
lUfoe acctpting tin- satisfaction
i. -ti licmian.t ha agreed tu give for
Mttlerien: of the l.usltanla contro
versy the lulled Slabs. It was auihorl
j.Uvi'v Mid .it tlif Slate Department
in. i afternoon probably will InsM on
cjvlrft .i written statement from Berlin j
.i.il Germany in its new submarine I
iamp.HKii ivnl not attack without warn-1
...g em my mo chant ships a mud for de- 1
ttllff !
Whet Itr Gel many Is to uccc.it thla
iv dictum lb .( mattci of doulit. In
scy ivi-m tnc prediction was nude to
iiijht i.) ;- I in. 1 1 Kinbussy iiuarlcis tint
itol'iiiKi d eoriespondonco between the
to iiuvcrnmcuts Is bound to ensue, in
he meantime, however, there ! a pos
ilulity that Germany may postpone the
o,tnitwn or htr new subnsirinc warfare.
Ttiis the Ambassador himself suggested
hi coiiUicnce with Secretary Lan
;r.; this afternoon.
Settlement Wm rr.
Bjt for this" new development, it was
ititid both at the State Department
iTui .it the embassy, to-day's cotntnunl
t.'on from Germany on the Lusituuiii
depute would probably have brought
ifcjut an Immediate settlement.
Count ion Hernstorrr called at the
State Department at noon to-day. lie
hti with lilni it memorandum froiu Ber
lin containing a new draft of thu pro
ped J.usltanln agreement. This draft.
It in authoritatively stated. cmlHidlcd all
the chaiu-'-.i In phraseology which Mr.
lasting had asked for.
Instead nf "assuming" liability for
rtpiratlon in the case of the Americans
wan Were killed. Herman)', In this new
ifin'i. expressed wllllngneiM to "rccog
lie' sueli Lability. With the e.eeitlon
o' ne rti.uim which Uermany herself
j-fSea'eil, la declared that the new
lull n i-.i ilcully Identical with what
I' Im,m r ,i week hso wantnl writ
ln And thin chance. It is said. Mr.
.JtiMnt; dues not regard as of material
niorUiue
Aft.r I'adlnc tlv draft In the pres.
.lie of the Ambasador, however, the
" cijo it. K.ild to hae declared that
and th Prildent desired to con
' dor it if the llKht of (Jermauy's declar
ation iiiivrnlnK her comiiiR submarine
aiiifj mil airaliiM armed enemy liners.
Mlitht .Nullify UKinnrri.
Alihnucii nut dlM-uscltiB tlie matter In
J' tin wiiii tim Ambassador, the .Hccre
'ir s .-JK to have Indicated a fear
tnat tne m w i.ierman submarine cam
rilrn, If .iirfed on In accordance with
tli- ilmilar decn-ii from Herlin. might
nullify Herman "s .iBsurances frlvrn at
" ' 'i" in Arabic wan sunk, that Un
M will, h did not resist or seek to en
cipe wou'l not be attacked without
rnliu .irnl without measures belns
tV(ii fir tie safety of the non-com-twtitnts
on U.ard
Tie Arntwysador Is said to have ex
rri,(,i h'. i-rson.il opinion that Oer
"nv, ib'smti the eirnilar warnlnsr. has
i iit'n'lnu nr att icklnR pasenner shlpH
M -.il confine her operations to enemy
f'Mihti rs and trawlers. Tills, It Is said,
Pi.ri.l not tu satisfy the Secretary,
i'i .i ...-'l-.'d to desire a written state
frreii c.crniany to that efTect.
Th Ktate I..prtment ofllclals tllll
K'wncnii espial, ., that In Its bearing
on k Mttieinent of the Lusltanla rase the
(i-rtn.in dectce is of utmost lm
Inani. In t-ekinc an anilcjible settlement of
-"nti.iier y. It was pointed out, the
iit-d Htat,' dmnnnded two things. In
tiry pi .. h. wanted satisfaction
I'r hn happened, that l.i for thn
k'lliri: . t i ,f- Americans on lioard the
'JIUnia In the sivond place. It waa
-'tatKl, i ie r.ttci) Stales wanted as
Mi ni, n r ijpnuany tnIll tnn fUtIire
vluot of tier submarine warfare would
' ii su (. frirmity with Iho rules of
"'rn itii.ii.i law that the lives of Ameri
n eltiions travelling on merchant nhlps
of d hr-iiigirent Power would not again
M '!acei iii jeopardy.
rl.,. roinlaes Knonsih.
t'ritll tiirinnny proclaimed last week
p Ititeniion . f 1'inbarklng on a new
"'hes nf Milim-irine warfare and attack
's all armed enemy ships without
"drnliiK, it wat explained, the assur
4tK.es Biv wt t, ,)me the Arabic
' sunk were sutllclent to cover the
''nvtn. of the I'nlted States concerning
"i future conduct of buhmarine warfare.
.nee then, however, ofllclals say that
l" ultiiatinn has changed.
In his, memorandum to Secretary Lan-
nir of October S last Count von Bern
rff promised on behalf of his Govern
"itnt that In any settlement of the IvUil
ill1 ,VUh" 'i'-ruuny would agree not to
Urk "linrrs" without warning pro
Y'lrJ micli llnem ,ild not attempt to re
t capture or to escape.
AlihoiiKi, licrmany earlier In the war
nad taken Hie position that any arma
ment nn infriluni ulilnu a. ,1,.
titl t,y trulHe,, nevorthelesa at the
- inemoranuum or uctober S was
rilten by unt von Bernstorff, the
iicmmn f:nvo,nninii, i ....... .ni..i.j ....
, i . vni, it wan ijimiicu uui
tl- jlpht by Department officials, wis
-wi waro or me position of the United
outee that merchant vessels could arm
Cosllnufd on Second Page,
eaUvvt. LiorCcU J SiTiyiif' -KrYvtJC sstrrxj VAv
JhA J sfot)& -aem ivAlaa. J ucuIl, Ml fcctx
trC ij yenr 4Ac, jLiJUyr. CLt AkJt J fHf
CCLaai -ovl, JZpoLnA -udteJL rC -aK Jtto&C-C
i a- 1 o it 1
POISON MYSTERY SUSPECT HERE,
POLICE SA Y; 'CRONES' LETTER CLUE
Bears Marks of Genuine
ness Worked 12 Days
on Death Potions.
"PIT ARSENIC IX
" FOOD. NOT IN SOUP
Jean Crones the Chicago club rhef
accused of putting arsenlo In the soup
served to 3u0 guests nt the lianipirt in
honor of Archbishop Mundeleln, Is be
lieved by the police to be In or near
Now Vork. A thorough search was
being made for him last night.
The reason for the search here Is a
letter signed by Crones and bearing evl
deuce of having been wrlten by hlrn
telling about hlmelf and practically
making a confession nf his handling of
poisons such as were found In the food
served' at the Chicago dinner. Tlie let
ter, which was received by a morning
newspapci, was turned over to acting
Captain Tunney of the bomb squad yes
terday and Immediately presented a
number of clues.
If genuine, the letter suggests that
Crones, like Ignatius T. Lincoln, the
missing International spy. takes pride in
his notorletv and that he has a desire
to see the facts presented correctly In
the newspapers. Thn writer says lie. did
not poison the soup, but that he placed
the poison In small quantities In other
dishes.
I,ovr rlenf- llr Hellalon.
Crones, If ho Is the writer of the
epistle, says that he saw the menu for
the dinner twelve days before the date
set for U, and that lie worked constantly
at night preparing the poison. Thu let
ter with Its Imperfoct grammar, mis
spelling and Incomplete sentences, fol
lows: Kverythlng I have read In the
papers regarding my case Is either
foollch or untrue. I declare that my
story l true. In America I am since
the th. May. 1913. and worked for
three months In Castels old French
restaurant. Orand City. Htaten Island,
as Chef. After that I worked for 1
lahr In New York and after that In
Chicago. Cleveland. In the Country
Club "nd bak to Chicago at the Uni
versity Club 1 was chef of the old
west room and dlt not have anything
to do with the soup.
I allwaya waa In the Radical Move
ment a worker and a a true Com
trade to my fellow workers. Mean
while T have studied Hclrnrr f Aston
omy and Chemistry). As I did not
have enouch mony to go to the uni
versity, nave IKKSM up i iieiliinuj
at the International Correspondeni
school In Itrranton, Ta, I proced
with my study and made food prog
ress. Thanks to the (I. (!. S.). I payed
monthly in nd for apparatus and
Chemicals tin J Cash Mony were I have
worked for.
As I love Slence I bathe Religion
and a.s I have seen the menue for
that Diner 12 days before I fought
that It wati a sanitary thing to make
a good clean up. And I started right
away to work. 1 worked till late In
the night exery day and I prepared the
poisons but the most hat a bitter teste.
Later I agreed for Arsenic and Barium
Chloride.
"Plarril I'olaon In Dishes."
I bought some more Arsenic and son
I hat KO liriuns Arsenous Oxide and
100 gr. ' A-O, and 60 gr. Hartum
Chloride. Thau I made 480 gr. (Mg
Hi.V, Oi) (C,.) and wery dry. Ibis
I look along when I made My I'scape.
No one in the world has known those
things before. After I hat placed
the poison In little quantities In dlf
ferciid dishes which were redy for the
diner.
Aflter that I went home 1 took a
solution nf lime of chloride water and
sulphuric acid and made my hair white
;ih schnov two times I was over
kommen by Hie gass evulved. Than I
left home with nothing but my chloles
some exploMves and some poison also
an knife nn a Revolver. Those, ex
plosives nre very danger for the
unalest shok causes an explosion
which will have terlhle resulles, I
deny that Ihete were any explosives
In my room after I left.
The six calm which the stupid Chi
cago police bellexed gun-cotton, Is not
ing but asbestos and In those six cans
I received six botles of acid from the
itchnol with asbestos around for save
shipping.
Working r Sen York.
I must laught at the letters which
the police fund. I dlt never have any
other letter but from home. Those
letters and all my papers I have
burned before I left, No I have
changed the color of my hair red and
I urn working In a good position In
a little town near Now York. No
body suspects anything here, and t
am save for the next. When I have
a little mony again I go to the Uni
versity and finis my study.
I am not afraid for the stupid police,
for I am not afraid for (he dead.
Wenn I go I take n good many along.
I am sory that nol all or at least a 100
got killed, for Ihe world would be more
happy without them. I have a good
portion of energy left and some In
telllence and the next time I am going
to use them so that my next work In
that line will be a full suces.
Juan Cbonks.
I am proud to he an Anarchist and
and If I was not Jean Crones I would
like to be Brest.
All my work I do alone all the time
so the police spies do not get the best
nn me and not get a rhance to get
promoted. Jkan CnoNKs.
The letter, which bears no date, Is
postmarked 12 I. M February 15, Hla
Hon II, New York. Station R Is In
148th street near Third avenue.
Tho totter, which waa examlntd car-
Description Writer Gives
Fits Known Farts of
Man Sought.
ANARCHIST. GERMAN.
TRACED TO S. I. HOTEL
lully h Deputy Police Commissioner
Scull. Capt. Tunney am Detective
lieorgn llarnlu, presents at kast six in
ternal and external features Unit
to prove that Crones, or a man who
knows him well, was the author, they
declare.
Klrst, the writer Is an Intense anar
chist: second, he has a smattering of
chemistry ; third, be l.s Herman; fourth,
lm Is a fanatic. If not Insane. Further
lm follows the teachings of anarchists
In announcing that he Is working alone.
He tells of his residence on Staten Is
land, a fact never before1 mentioned.
These points were discussed by the
authorities ai Indications of the genu
IncnesH of the lettci, though of course.
It Is possible that the writer was an
other person. Insane. At any rate, the.
police wish to ipiest Inn the wr'ler and
ascertain what lie knows.
It was founil to bo true that a man
named Jean Crones did work at Casters
Hotel, ilrant City, Staten Island. l-:d-ward
Marks, Ihe proprietor, said last
evening that Cront-s worked as chef for
lilni from May 2, 1913. to August .1(1 of
the same year. In Crimea's letter he had
written !!II as the date of his arrival,
but afterward had stricken II out an
other Indication nf the care with wh'ch
Iho letter was penned,
( I'nnnd 4'rnnes nn l.lner.
Marks said that at the opening of the
season he legan to Inijuln- for a chef,
and a porter working for him ofTeriHl to
tlnd a man. The porter took Marks to
the steamship Krnonland, where he In
troduced him lo Crones. The latter, who
was employed on the vessel ns chef, Im
mediately left the ship and went In work
for Marks. At the end of the season he
left there and disappeared, Marks said
he never saw or heard of hlrn afterward,
The facts already published about
Crones fit In many ways the evidence
furnished by the writer about himself,
Thst both the writer and Crones know
chemistry Is well established. ,en
t.lebermann, assistant Inspector of the
Bureau of Combustibles, and Mr. WhII
taker, an Instructor In chemlstiy t Co
lumbla University, both of whom learned
the contents of the letter, said the writer
was "an amateurish chemist."
Mr. I.leberinann said every formula In
the letter, excepting MkIIi.N'iO, was cor
reel Neither he nor Mr Whlttaker
Continued on Secosfl I'ayr,
rXOKIDA CAROLINA RKSOKTM.
Pour trains. Best equipment. Hhurt I, Ins,
Inq. Htabosrd Air Line Ry UI4 U'way,
Aiv.
JICSCOVITES FOUGHT
IX SNOW 10 FEET DEEP
fprritl Cable DnpatcS fa Til ScK.
Ixiniion, Feb. IB. llnerum, the great
Armenian fortress where Ihe main Turk
ish Caucasus army, estimated at 1(0,000
men, has been besieged, has fallen Into
the hands of the Russians. The Turkish
army Is fleeing westward.
The news of the fall of nrxerum w
conveyed tn the Czar In a telegram
from Ihe llrnnd Duke Nicholas. The
telegram follows:
ilfid has granted the brave troops
nf the nrmy of the Caucasus such
great help that Crrerum has been
taken after five days of unprecedented
HSsault. I am Inexpressibly happy to
announce this victory to your Imperial
Majesty.
The Official Report.
The latest Russian War Office state
ment concerning the fighting there, which
does not contain the statement of the
city's capture. Is as follows.
We captured nine forts of the Deve
Boyun position, covering the fortress
of Krzerutn, We took seventy guns,
great iiuantltie. of munitions and pris
oners. The General staff regrets to lie com
pelled to nbitaln from mentioning
the glorious regiments which dislodged
tlie Turks at the pilot of the layonet.
nir suivt-ss Is being deeloped despite
the cold and local obstacle. The
Turks are hurrying troops ftom the
west and south to relieve Krreruni.
Tin- southern part of Hrzerum Is
a tla me.
In the Khop region, tiouthcaH of
Krzeium, ,jur offensAc omtlnucs suc
cessfully. (in the Black Sea littoral we dis
lodged the Turks from the mountains,
thro.vlng them across the River Vlt
xcsu. Four Tuiklsh army corps the Fourth,
Ninth, Tenth and Kleventh under the
command of lien. I.lman von Sanders,
defended the fortress.
The doom of Krxerum was sealed when
the Russian forces, braving tlie interne
cold and the deep snow, took Kop Moun
tain by storm. Indktlnc a crushing defeat
on the already evlmustcd Turkish army.
Blow after blow- followed, tho Muscovite
tionjis mowing down everything that
trle.I to block their steady onrush, and
soon the l .rami Duke's artillery had
flanked the defence positions of the de
fender!?. The retrograd coriespondent of the
Ddly .Villi, telegraphing to-day. says:
' "Hrserum resisted only Ave days. The
I Turkish nrmy Is now In flight westward
I in the dIMIcult mountain region."
I The same correspondent telegraphing
unuer yesierua) a Hate says:
"The tlrst stage of tlie attack was the
result of the operations last month, when
I the Russians drove the Turks within the
ring of the outer forts. Then a delay
was nee. ssltated by weather conditions
which can le conceived only by those
who saw the Caucasus battles at the end
of 1914 or the Carpathian lighting of
last spring.
Zero frosts and snow ten feet deep In
the road are the obtacles with which
the Russians hae had to contend. That
they are overcoming them manfully and
nulcklv sneaks highly of the splendid
courage and endurance nf the men and
of the management of the campaign by
lieu, youdenltch and his staff.
"The heavy guns which blew up the
tlrst fort the Russians occupied were got
In position with the greatest dllHeulty.
All transport was carried on under con
ditions scarcely credible In Kurnpe."
F.rzerum. a historic Armenian strong
hold, is strategically of tremendous lm-
portance. It forms tin converging point
of vital roads, Is about sixty miles from
the Ru'-slan frontier. It has belonged to
Turkey fur four centuries and has fig
ured In many wars. In the present con
flict It III st began to figure on November
S, 191 1, when the Ru-slans inflletid a
crushing defeat on three Turkish regi
ments, which fled In wild disorder In the
direction of Krzerum. The Russians fol
lowed cloe upon their heels, but onct
under the protection of the fortress guns
the Turks were able to recuperate and
regroup. Since tliin the fortunes of war
have alternated frequently between Rus
sians and Ottomans.
Iloinbnrriment Began.
On the whole Ihe Russian forces main
tained the upper hand, although they
. wen not able to begin the actual bom
bardment of Kraerum until late In De
cember. The defence of the fortress was
rnn tided to (Sen. von der Ooltr.. There
I have bi en frequent reports of reenforee
! ments having been despatched to the
I harl pressed Turkish army, but It Is not
belleed the i let man Held Marshal has
succeeded III relit vlng lien, von Sanders's
foices to any substantial extent.
The captuie of Krzerutn may be
ascribed directly lo ( Irani! Duke
Nicholas, who, relieved by his uncle,
the Czar, of the chief command
of the armies In Russia last Sep
tember, wiih sent to direct operations In
the Caucasus. At the time the change
was ginerally taken as a shelving of the
OiTlnd Duke, Developments since, how
ever, have demonstrated Ihe Importance
of the Caucasian campaign, esneclnllv
' because of Its effect on Russian optra
I Hons In I'ersla and the campaign of the
I British troops in Mesopotamia,
'$108,000,000 MORE FOR TURKS.
Neir l.nnn by Germany lo Make
; Tntnl l.onnn 'J1 4.000,1100.
Amstkhpam, via lmdon, Feb, II
' According to a report received here from
the Budget Committee of the Turkish
Parliament the Teutonic Powers have
loaned to Turkey since the beginning of
the war the sum of f1,600,000 $10S,.
000,000),
Germany Is soon to make n further loan
, of (21,200,01)0 ($106,000,000),
I VIIA. r l.OHIII V SAV ANNAH, AH.I'KTA.
4 All HI" el Hleetrle l.tsliled Trains Dslly.
Atlantic Coast Une. Office, U'wvy A Slth Ht.
Air.
The politicians who controlled the Re
publican State convention William
Names, Senator Wadsworth. Htate Chair
man Tanner, Dr. Nicholas Murray But
ler, Henry U Stlmson revealed sud
denly and dramatically yesterday the
real reason why they had a convention
assemble so early In the year and the
real significance of the prominence given
td Bllhu Root In that convention.
Without warning lo the unsueiectlng
Wliltmanltes, the supporters of Justice
Hughes and the secret friends of Rwme
velt they attempted to force through
the committee on resolutions nn out
right declaration that Senator Root was
the choice of the Republican party of this
State for the l"rcsldentlal nomination
at Chicago next June. Tticy were beaten
because the Whitman forces In the com
mittee, encouraged by other elements In
opposition to Mr. Root, declared they
would tight such nn Indorsement to
the last ditch, and w-hen Mr. Root
learned of the tense situation existing
In the committee room he took u hand
and requested that the proposal be
dropped.
That did not end the project has not
squelched It yet. The doom of Carnegie
Hall wire no more than shut upon the
outgoing delegates than three of the
newly elected delegates at large. Senator
James W. Wailswonh, Jr.. State Chair
man Frederic C. Tanner and Slate Sen-
ator Ulou R. Brown, were meeting with
noped ror secrecy nl tlie Republican Club,
discussing the phrases of a statement
which would bind them, as three-fourths
of the Big Four, to an Indorsement of
Mr. Root. They were all ready to com
mit themselves and give out a statement
when the fact of their meeting was dis
covered and they suddenly decided to
postpone the coup d'etat
Resolution Starts Storm.
There wan on Tuesday r.lglit a bare
hint, disclosed In Tin: Sun yesterday
morning, that the Influential factors In
the convention were concerned with a
far more important project than oppos
ing Gov. Whitman's ambition to con
trot the Big Four and to be lutndsomely
pralsed In the platform, and that the
chief purpose of the convention leaders
waa to declare ror Mr. Root so un
qualifiedly that neither Hughe nor
Whitman nor Roosevelt nor any other
possible candidate could possibly be In
the running thereafter so far as this
PINNED HOUR BETWEEN
TWO BROADWAY CARS
Harry Hnurr Near Death From
Shook Traffic Tied Up
at Madison Square.
A crowd of thousands gathered and
traffic was tied up an hour at the home
going hour last nlghr while police
and nremen struggled to extricate
Harry "uer. 30, of 619 Kast 1 0th
street from the narrow space In which
he was wedged between two of the new
"hobble skirt" Broadway surface cars.
He is In a serious condition from shock
at New York Hospital.
iior was crossing Broadway between
Twenty-third and Twenty-fourth streets
and stepped to the space between the
north and south bound tracks, thinking
that cars he saw coming from both di
rections would pass safely on cither side
of him. He forgot the width of Ihe new
cars and w-as caught and crushed be
tween them.
Passengers In both cars were panic
stricken and their cries and Ihe smash
ing of windows as they tried lo get out
drew a big crowd In Madison Square.
Deputy Fire Chief Martin arrived with
Truck C at about the lime reserves
from two stations started to press b.iek
tho crowd. The rlreinen tried to Jack
up the northbound car nnd so get llauer
out. Dr. Adair of New York Hospital
crawling down to him meantime and
giving him strychnine Injections to keep
him alive. When Ihe northbound car
moved, however, It was only to pin I Inner
down morn tightly and add to his pain.
The firemen then tried to saw through
the Iron bars of the car windows and
the rescue company with Its steel melt
ing torches was summoned, hut Dr. Adair
shouted up that unless llauer were ex
tricated soon he would die. It was then
decided to pull him out and a ropo was
passed around Ills body, six strong, fire
men took their places on tho car roofs
and at a signal hauled llauer up.
At the hospital It was found his only
physical Injuries were a collar bone
broken twice anil ruts and bruises, but It
was feared the shock might cause his
ileath.
NEW AUTO PLATES DEFECTIVE.
Contracting Company OnVra tn Re
place Those WHh Finns.
The automobile bureau of the Secre.
tary of State at Broadway and Seventy
fourth street has been stormed with coin
plaints that the enamel on tlie new
license plates has been chipping oft.
The Manhattan Supply Company,
which had the contract to supply llic
200,000 license plates, has agreed to re.
place all defective ones. Experts for Ihe
company have been unable to learn what
has caused the paint to chip.
NINE DIE IN THEATRE FIRE.
Tvrnt IHhrrs, Mostly Children,
Are Injnred.
Mkxia, Tex,, Feb. IS. Nine persons
were burned to ilcatlli and twenty In
jured when a fire here to-night de
stroyed the Opera House, where a pub
lie school art exhibit was being held.
Several stores and residences were
destroyed by Ihe (lames, whlrh origi
nated In n groory store. Most of those
burned to death were children cauttit In
the panto.
Slnte waa concerned. On Tuesday night
It leaked out that William Barnes had
a resolution In his pocket committing the
convention to an Indorsement of Root.
The resolution appeared nn schedule
time yesterday morning Just after the
committee on resolutions had persuaded
George W. Wlckersham that the plat
form wasn't too weak; wns a perfei tly
good platform all the way through. That
business over, the gentlemen who knew
what was coming sat back with anticipa
tory smiles and John A. Hlelcher, editor 1
of Juitpr, atose. Mr. Hlelcher presenttdl
the Root Indorsement resolution. It was
pretty strong medicine, as Speaker Sweet '
said, and Mr. Slelclur had barely finished
voicing Its well rounded phrases when
the Speaker was on his feet, lists waving,
face red.
Mr. Sweet is a strong Whitman man
nnd the Whitman men In the committed
looked to him for leadership. He Jumped
all over the resolution, pointing out that
such action would be Just as much In
violation of the spirit of the primaries
law ns would have ben Ihe Whitman
Presidential Indorsement. Ho said that
If they persisted In trying to force the
Root Indorsement through he would take
the fight to the floor of tht convention
and make things howl,
Stlniaoii A rooted.
Tlie tone of his speech rather than Its
verbiage aroused ex-Secretary of War
Henry I.. Stlmron, one of the most loyal
of the Root tntn, he having been a pro
tege politically of Mr. Root's ns well as
a law firm associate. He wanted to know
what Speaker Sweet meant by adopting
such a tone, and he entered into rather
a long tulogy of Mr. Root, saying that
Mr. Root would be an Ideal candidate
and that It was the duty of the party to
recognize such superb leadership as Mr.
Root's. He spoke of the speech Mr. Rost
made on Tuesday night and predlctid
the favorable effect It would have In the
country at large.
But the opposition would not be
downed. Sweet was not to be soothed.
The Whitman and llughts men were
counting noses for battle and threatening
a no quarter fight In the convention. Mr.
Stlinson and one or two others thought It
best to get Mr. Root's views, and very
quickly reported that the ex-Snator pre
ferred to have the Slelcher motion with
drawn. It was done and the record of
the discussion was expunged from the
records of tht meeting.
The outcome was a sore disappoint-
Coiiffnirif on Second Page.
$1,000,000 BONUS FOR
BRAINS. FROM SCHWAB
nXhlHii'in Stool Head Tells of
Shariii"- Prosperity Works
Kxceed Krupp's.
Tlie eyes of some 500 literary persons,
publishers and writers, fairly hutzed yes
terday afternoon at the Aldlne Club as
Charles M. Schwab told thorn he con
sidered braltu. of gre.ir.cr value than
money to the extent of paying 11,000,000
annual Ihiiiums to assistants who used
their hr.ilns fur the sood of his business
Mr. Schwab told of paying one as
sistant such a Ikjiius la.st yiar. In addi
tion to a decidedly handsome salary, and
wild Vice-President Arch Johnson's little
testimonial wa an extra IHtfO.ooo. In
ildcntally, he said that the Bethlehem
Steel Company has a plant at least SO
per cent better than the famous Krupp
munition works at Kssen, Germany,
"I expect the American steel output to
increase In I lit? to 40.000,000 tons," he
said. "It was 24,000,000 tons last car.
I lielicve In sharing profits with depart
ment heads und workmen who ndd to
profits by economies or Increased output.
A sloi'Miolder once criticise,! my giving
la or 20 tier cent. In this way before we
paid dividends, I asked him who he con
sidered the most successful profit pro
ducer, and he said Andrew Carnegie.
" 'W. II," I rejilled, 'he gac fi per rent
of his profit and I share.) some of them.'
"I'rolll sharing." Mr. Schwab contin
ued, "will settle the labor problem even
tually It will be a survival of the lit
test; the producer will be rewarded, and
tho non. producer will remain where he
Is. Illg business has eliminated small
business. There Is no hope for any busi
ness to.ilay, unless It Is highly special.
Ized, The employee will supplant In
earning capacity the small business
num.
"Any man who Is not Interested In bis
work." he said In conclusion, "should
give It up. He should get from It his
pleasures and his diversions. Tlie nr's
toeracy of this or any other country
should be the men who have succeeded,
who have achieved and who have nlded
In the upbuilding of ihe country."
MUNITION EXPORTS JUMP.
y.noO.IMMI Worth Rrn-h Knrope
Dnllyi Increaee l,lbrl,
Wasiiinuton, Feb. 16, Two million
dollars worth of American munitions
reach Kurope every day, with nn In
crease likely ns production grows larger.
Ksllmates made at the Department
of Coiunieice put total munition ship
ments since tho war began close to a
quarter of a billion dollars. At tho rate
shipments are going now the next four
months would soo this total doubled,
een If production remained nt a stand
still. A great part of the output has In en
In high explosive shells, more than
f00, OiHi.OOfl worth of which have left
American shores, I'.vwdcr comes next at
nearly t0O,ooo,00O and small arm carl
ridges are third with $30,000,000. Fire,
arms exports, Including ordnance, aie
put at less than 120,000,000, The heavi
est month's tlrarms shipments was in
Januaiy, 19lfi. when inoie thin $2,000,00ii
worth went to llurope.
liRKAT ItKAR HPRINCi WATKR.
e0i. the isms o( si fits stoppered bottles.
Aiv.
FAILS IN CONTEST TO
PICK ALL DELEGATES
Wadswortli. Tanner and
Elon R. Brown Others
Chosen.
DECISION REACHED
OX SEVENTH BALLOT
Republican Platform De
clares for -Complete' Prep
aration for Defence.
The Republican Stntn cnnventlov at
Carnegie Hull ended jestrnlay afternoon
without public exhibition of the bitter
nesses and hatred" (hit inarlnd William
Barnes's fffort to make Gov. Whitman
ridiculous mill fim. Whitman's effort tn
finish the work that Col. Roosevelt be
gan In Sjracu.e. the desti ttcllon of
Barnes's leadership.
.The peacemakers ,lf ,,rKdnzatlon,
who were red eyed and weary after their
all night labors to convince the, flat
form makers and delegate nominator
that the organization ought not to b con
verted at the very outset of a gteat cam
paign Into a mere vehicle for Whitman
Intrigues or Barnes vengcfulness, wi
able to block a scandalous tight tm the
floor of the convention, but t icy were
not able to prevent the tancor.s .if tii
Barnes-Whitman feud from Hiring up
furiously In committee meetings.
The result of It all was that n sort of
compromise was reached, a sort of sur
face amiability. The Governor ohtatr
certain concessions that he had do
manded and he. lost otheis, Mr. Barnes
won some advantages and lost others.
l!nch was saying last night with cei
appearance of genial sinn-nn that th
results were satisfactory. As a -mittae
of fact, neither was satisfied nnd each I
merely poised for another spring
Results tif the lrnaule.
From the Whitman standpoint th
pleasing results of a lively two days
convention struggle were thee
The Governor defeated a c.itefiilly
planned scheme to commit the Stat
convention to an Indorsement of Knliu
Root for Piisldent.
He forced ciiiiiiiienil.ition of b.s ad
ministration ami theicby put the or
ganization on reconl.
He old, lined a place aiming the Big
Four, the delegates at large to the na
tional convention, despite Harriet's
threat to piewnt his selcetloi
The displeasing results were as
frankly enumerated at the Whitman
quarters In the Hotel lllltniore
Tlie Governor lot his tight to name
the entile list ot ileli Hal,-.-- in larji
He was uiiablo to prevent Barnes
ft inn displacing Dr. David .l.iync Hilt
with Senator i:ion I. Ihotvu as tun;
Of the Big Four.
He was unable to obtain an unquati
lied liiiliirsenieni nf his 1 1 in 1 ii 1 1 1 ,i
tlon as a paragraph of the platform,
and had to be content with a lesn
lutlon of commendation which M
adopted SMp.ir.itcly from the platform.
Kach side, tberefoie, swallowed bit
ter with Us sweet ami tiiisl to look
pleasant alter the dose. The liovcrnoi
was unable to destroy Manic, am!
Haines was prevent, d from dcstioyliii.
the Governor llach escaped alive, bqi
each was marked with scars of combat
The soieucsH an. ill nllev latum at Chi
cagn.
Ileleirnl.'s Selected.
The iiio-i interesting clash of '"i., day
If one excepts the Attempt to j im
thiougli the convention n I'n sldentlal
Indorsement for I'llhii Root was the
election of delegates at lare, a proceed
lug which resulted dually in the fol
lowing list.
in.i.i i; 1 1 1 s at I tniii:.
Inltril Mutes senator .lames W,
WMilswnrlh, Jr.
tint. Clinrles s. Whitman
Male I halriiinn Frederic C Tanner.
Slate Seinitur Clnn II. llrottn,
Al.TUt.tATrs.
I.dttnril II. Duller of Buffalo.
Jesse , philips of Sleuhrn.
Cornelius V. Illlss of ew VnrV.
Charles t, Anderson of Vett- )nrl,.
The political complexion of tv H.j;
Four Is obvious. Senator Wiulswo-th Is
entirely friendly tn Humes. i;ior it
Itl'nwu. Senate leader. Is distinctly a
Barnes man Statu Chairman Tamer,
svhllo playing a close game and m-v
Illg for pcnie. Is for .Mr Root lo.
President, and so dead nguliist the t;n
ernor's ambition.
It reiiiiied seven ballots to pick t i"
Big Four. These seven ballots ycte .Is
rimming were n erely the climax ,,f pi
ttcally an all night turmoil of liitr,Mi
ami attempts to trade ami him.i'i '.
threats, promises and every s irt of pi
lltlcal suasion which could be broug it to
bear. When tint convention adjourned
on Tuesday night the W'luluia i le-ideia
wcie claiming twenty -six nie i.lie' of toe
committee and Barnes was cln mint
twenty -eight Neither had llu'iircii mvu
ralely, although Barnes was a I (tie
closer to the lllllh thin his oppoi e t
Hi-.nl v to stand by the Wnitoii s, u
whlili wa- II ade up of the Gotere j
Si nalor Wadsworth, Slate i hi eiii.in
Tanner and Dr. David J lyne Hill were
the Pan sons and Koenlc delegitrs from
New Vbrk aoimty, William I, W i d n'
W'cstchlv.'i-', 'range, Dutchess Sara
toga. t. . i.awrence, nsweg.i, iinodaci
.Monroe, S-IMiIm-ii and ni.ist nf the I i'd
county deb g.ites.nii,-iir ng out to a V t.il
of tweiilv-s lit Ulit limn T e astute
Mr Wa d I x-scyl' invi . ;-innrr "Mips.
Col Bill II. iv wairll-ttiii Gov eninr secie
Inn, William A. Orr, all had chccl.vd up
t
