THE
71
r
EtEENVIL
H.3T'
VOL, 84 Established 1832.
GREENVILLE, OHIO, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1916
No 33.
"T"3 - II f 1 M
-LE
" JLZOBL3IQR,"
COURT HOUSE NEWS.
PRORATE COURT.
cf Joseph Niles. G. W. Wissinger, per adminis
Jacob L. Rhoades, 31, farmer, trator, to D. M. Hardman, lot 15
Wabash township, son of David in Webster, $410-
Getty 3 Surg.
We passed Lincoln's birthday
las; Saturday without an demon-
I T,.U TT ; T I
stration other than a debate in jr., whs aP- K. Khoades. and Bessie McGlinch. Richard, Droscha to Cassius
the intermediate department on pointed guardian of Landa Bak- 30, New Weston, daughter of Minser, lot 13 in Webster, $35.
tho question "Which was entitled er; bond $12.0(- James McGlinch. August Uecker to J. A. Beck-
to the fereater honor. Lincoln or Application filed for the ap- ira G. CqupPi 26, farmer, Mis- er, lot 84 and part lot 83 in Cs-
Washington?"
IVay is St. Valentines Day,
and is usually celebrated by a
fair exchange of some missive to
indicate love or sentiments of es-
pointment of a guardian fcr Ma
bel V. Baker and others.
Catharine Eberwein elected to
accept under the will of her de
ceased husband.
prisoners in the penitentiaries,
77 per cent of them had not
trades or regular calling.
One can easily believe the cor
rectness of these statements. It
is obvious that men having a
trade or a regular occupation do
not commit crimes to the extent
sissmawa township, son of Dan- good, $1.
lelCaupp, and Marie R. Pass- D. T. Hill to L. W. Armacost, that people do who are without
more, 20, Allen township, daugh- 5 acres in Harrison township, training in any useful line of
ter of Charles H. Passraore. $1900. work or endeavor. To acquire or
Harley E. Mai tin, 22, farmer, Elam Lawrence to Charles E. learn a trade means four and five
""lfl"uuul meu 111 Buara" Washington township, son of Wright, Hi acres in 'Harrison years of hard work,- and hard
teem for each other. It is be-
I t n L .' C 17, T-l T 1 I
lieved that upon this day birds iai,i,",p Ui rdnny D- nman. George F. Martin, and Onda M. township, $2600.
will choose their matrs. or pair were meu vanata, 18, Van Buren township. Ira C. Warrick to John
work and crime do not go hand
W. in hand ; it is the fellow who
sharply for himself. If he doe? of office seekers that multiplied
not he is likely to get bumped, like the plagues of Egypt.
ard mighty hard at that. Auto- Fortunately we are n,inrr
ists, teamsters, motorcyclists, in through a second reaction. We
fact, pilots of all sorts of vehicle, are on our way, we trust, to safer
seem to be obsessed with the idea and saner conditions. Today
that the public streets -re pri- there is a growing deposition on
marily for their exclusive use the part of the public generally
and that any man or woman pre- to recognize the legitimate rights
suming to exercise the privilege of the business man to a large
of walking abroad is engaging in a"d influential participation in
a perilous enterprise. Such con- public affairs. His welfare is.
sideration as is shown for the necessary to the welfare of labor
person on foot comes, however, and the state, and if he will meet
more from motormen than from both on the basis of the greatest
I for the aDDointment of d I I I w,.., kan wh i uutu uh me oasis 01 tne greatest
pp ent ot an aa- daughter of Isaac Vanata. Deeter, 64 acres in Washington wans to get along without work- any other class of drivers.-Pitts- good for ill he will hP wnm
ministrarnr nf estate nf Tono W I I . I . I hu on, ue m ueweiCOmea
and in imitation this bird rule mitrator of estate of Isaac W.
Hay,
Murray L. McGallaird, 22, far-1 township, $8250
i-fc lit .1 - -
mer, rtanaoipn 00., lnd.. and Marv F. Snvder to Dav H P
1?.'r,4- Cl A f 1 1 I I
x ,xo auu uiKti amount mea in Dora M. TemDlet go Union Citv r . , . . 4n and Plasterer
- - ' " 11 1 " w WX ill I '
estate ot Mary uonavan. daughter of Wm TempJe
Transcript from criminal dock
lovers sometimes engage in the
same exercise, and strange enough
to say, such exchange of missives " MaiJ daughter of Wm. Temple. Jackson township, $1.
ripens into marriages. It is an " u'u' Henry W. Stephan, 25, farm- Charles A. Arnett to Raymond
excellent recourse to the bashful et f Wm" Hannan J- P-' of Pat- er, Wabash township, son of Wm. C. Bristley, 43 acres in Monroe
youth, but this cu-ht not to aDply rerSOn P, edm case of Stephan, and Edna M, Billen- township. $3500.
ing who causes the most of the burgh Dispatch.
trouble in this world. Bricklayer
To Cure Children's Colds.
Keep child dry, clothe comfor
table, avoid exposure and give
new as this is leap year and the St3te f hi Versus Nfchoh stein, 18. Wabash township, dau- E. S. Hollinger to G. R. Moore, Dr' Bell's Kne-Tar-Hcney. It is
Giilliotfc.
lady is privileged to do what the
swain will not do for lack of sand. uraer ot private sale of per
So f&r as known we have rb sonal Property returned in estate
program indicated for the eele- of Charles George.
bration of Washington's birthday 'irst and final account filed in
anniversary on the 22nd. We escate 01 avid Oakes.
deem it right and proper that the Inventory and appraisement other3 . for construction of wiL of
lives of these great men should med in estate of Eli Hess.
ghter of John C. Billenstein. 20 acres in German townshin.
r 1
saann.
new cases. ' G. R. Moore to Charles Gin-
20766-Aaron Wright, admin-Uer- iacre in German township,
istrator of estate cf Henry J, Ar- 51
nett, versus Peter Arnett and Charles Ginger to G. R. Moore,
an acre in German town-
he rtnlv rplnhtated and their un- rirsc ana nnal account filed in
selfish works for the elevation o estate tf Clara E. Cable,
downtrodden humanity should re- Third account filed in guard
ceive due recognition from pos- iansbip of Russell Besecker.
terity who enjoy the fruit of Inventory and appraisement of real estate.
their labor. fiIed in estate of Henry Stiles. 20769-E- S. and Lizzie TTnl.
20767-George Hay versus John shiP. $1-
Hay and others: for partition of brant Robertson to E. S. Hol-
real estate. . linger, 30 acres in Harrison town-
20768-Jessie Hay versus John shiP. ?3150.
T. Hay and others; for partition F. D. Shepherd to Ira L. Four-
1
man, 2 acres in Twin township,
$600.
pleasant, soothing, antiseptic, ,
raises phlegm and reduces in
flammation. The first dose gives
relief, continued treatment witn
proper care will avoid serious ill
ness or a long cold. Don't delay
treatment. Don't let your child
suffer. Get a bottle today. 'In
bist on Dr. Bell's Pine-Tar-Hon
ey. 2oc at drugeists. Adv
Children Cry
FOR FLETCHER'S
CAS TO R I A
Who Am I? ,
Siprn in Rock Island Arsenal.
I am more powerful than the
armies of the world.
I am more deadly than bullets.
and I have wrecked more homes
than the mightiest of siege guns.
I steal in the United States a-
I todcy as never before. The state
I needs his counsel and his help,
and those temporarily in places
cf trust and power cannot do bet
ter than recognize that fact
Hon. F. B. Willis. Governor ot
Ohio.
Children Cry
FOR FLETCHER'S
CASTORI A
Resolutions.
Forgiveness is the most neces-
ary and proper work of every
lone over $300, 000, 000 every year, man; for, though, when I do not
1
I spare no one, and find my a just thing, or a charitable, or a
victims among the rich and poor wise, another man may do it for
1
alike ; the young and the old ; the me, yet no man can forgive my
strong and the weak; widows and enemy but myself. Lord Her-
orphans know me. bert.
Henry G. Bang, who bought ' will of Wm. Requarth was linger Vfcrsus Unknown Heirs of Daniel E. HoUinger to Evan s!
the Rohr property, moved into it fi,ed for Probate and record,
today from the north side of our Benjamin F. Thompson was re
township. He will take a place committed to the Dayton State
Vere in an additional business a-1 Hospital.
James J. and Pernelia J. Baker; I Hollinger, quit cla
mong us.
Rev. J. O. Carr went to Olena,
from whence he came to this
place, to preach the funeral of a
former parishioner.
P. B. Moul and wife spent yes
terday at Richmond, lnd., with
friends. In his absence, Sd
Swinger, assistant superintend
ent of our M. E. Sunday school,
conducted the exercises and well
sustained his former reputation.
It was announced that the re
vival exercises of the Presbyter
ian church would be continued
this week. The success so far
seem3 to justify this action. A
very large attendance is present
at every meeting and great in
terest abounds among the people.
Last Saturday night nine persons
accepted Christ, and at the close
of yesterday morning's meeting
seven more followed, and at the
close of last night's meeting sev
enteen more signified their pur
pose to forsake the devious way
and take the way of the lowly
Nazarene.
to quiet title.
REGISTER OF DEEDb.
Lucinda Hahn to Wm. H. Mur-
m to 18 acres
ship. $1900.
L. T. Grubbs was appointed
administrator of estate of Thorn- hhy' 8 acres in Greenvie own-
as J. Robeson; bond $6000.
Last will of Clark Spencer was
admitted to piobate and record.
J. H. Spencer' was appointed ex
ecutor under said will; bond $10,
000. Last will of Justin Depoire was
filed for probate and record.
in German township. $1.
Elijah Shook to Fidelia Shaffer,
25 acres in York township, $2000.
Joseph Manier, Sr., to A. H.
Petersime, 88 acijes in Wayne
Daniel Moul to The Gettysburg townshiP. $8700.
Lumher Co. . a lnh in C.eH vh W ieiian to J . M. W 1CK,
,
$1. ,
The Daniel Moul Lumber Co.
to The Gettysburg Lumber Co.,
a lot in Gettysburg, $4500.
Clifford Price to Etta Harman,
lot 11 in Yorkshire, $700.
gentleness ana reiuse to use
words that bite and tones that
crush.
I will practice patience at home
lest my temper break through
unexpectedly and disgrace me.
I will remember that my neigh
bors have trouble enough with
out loading mine on them.
I will excuse other's faults and
failures as often and as fully as I
exrect others to be lenient with
mine.
How to Cure Colds.
Avoid exposure and drafts.
Eat right. Take Dr. King's New tests and wear everywhere a
Discovery. It is prepared . from ff0od-wil1 face unchilled by aloof-
Inventory and appraisement 10 acre3 in Greenville townsmp' Pine Tar, healing balsams and ness
mild laxatives. Dr. King's New I wil1 love bys and girls so
The Thomas Real Estate Co. to n. , . , , old will not- finri G Cf,-ff Qnj
j-i3tiveiy niiis ami expeis uiei 0 "
1 massacre thousands uDon
1 will study the language d thousands of wae earners in a
year.
I lurk in unseen places, and do
most cf my work silently, You
are warned against me, but you
heed not.
I am relentless. I am every
where; in the home, on the street,
in the factory, at railroad cross
ings and on the sea.
1 bring sickness, degradation
and death, and yet few seek to
avoid me.
I destroy, crush and maim; I
I will be a friend under trying Kive nothing, but take all.
1 am your worst enemy.
I AM CARELESSNESS.
filed in estate of Wm. Goens.
Account of final distribution
filed in estate of Samuel Zum- W' B' John Part lot 41 in Green" cold germs, soothes the irritated soured-
Children Cry
FOR FLETCHER'S
CAS TO R I A
brum.
ville, $6500.
throat and allays inflammation. I will gladden my nature by
r -11 T. j. .1 1 a ji 1
Application filed for the ap- augn uucinaa lt healg the mucoug raembrane smiling out loud on every fair
rmmfmant nf o 0; u Hahn, 2i acres in Greenville
becca E. Smith, an alleged imbe- township' $100-
cile.
Last will of Wm. Requarth was
admitted to probate and record.
Henry A. and Fred H. Requarth
were appointed executors under
said will : bond $3000.
Third account filed in .guard
ianship of Edith Boomershine.
Application filed for the ap-
Belle Bryte to Belle Puter-
baugh, part outlot 14 in Green
ville, $1500.
Charles J. Harr to Helle Bryte,
lot 1773 in Greenville. $2000.
W. F. Batt to Lizzie A. Hol-
Liearn a Trade.
This may seem somewhat cold
blooded, but, according to statis-
linger, lots.18 and 19 in Horatio, tics, the best way to stay out of
$290. the penitentiary is to learn a
Search as you will, you cannot occasion and by outlooking op
find a better cough and cold rem- timistically.
edy. Its use over 45 years is a I will pray frequently, think
guarantee of satisfaction. Adv good things, believe men, and do
a full day's work without fear or
favor. Farm and Fireside.
Demagogues are Losing
Their Hold.
Twenty years ago the business
man was invited to participate ac
tively in politics, and there was
an insistent demand that the cap
tains of industry assume the du
ties of public office and give to
the country a business adminis
tration of state affairs. The re-
Liven Up Your Torpid
Liver.
To keep your liver active use sponse to the invitation was some
J. A Snyder . to The Peoples' J trade lt does not make s0 much Dr- King's New Life Pills. They what general but the result, due
Emanuel Hershey, of this vicini
ty, are both seriosly ill, due to
infirmities of age.
Mrs. J. D. Coblentz is a visitor
at Columbus with relatives.
Feb. 14. XOB
pointmentof an administrator of Bank Co. of Ft. Recovery, '79 ac- difference what trade the boy insure good digestion, relieve a measure to conditions over
learns ; any trade learned and fol- constipation, and tone up the which tha business man had slight
lowed will ihave a tendency to whole system keep your eye control, were not altogether for
keep the boy and later the man clear and your skin fresh and tuhate. Large sums of money
out of the penitentiary , if statis- healthy looking. Only 25e at were used in political campaigns,
tics are a criterion. ,' your druererist a,i and at last the crv went, un that
. I V - ---' - r w "
A student of sociology who has men and legislation were influ-
been making a study of prison Fedestnans Rights. enced by purely mercenary con
populations finds that there are D. P. Kingsley strikes a most siderations. A reaction set in and
estate of Wm. Beisner. : res ln Mississinawa townflhip,
First account filed in guardian- $5000. ; '
Solomon Stoltz of our village .. m. 1 ..1 . .
aBC ship of Phoebe Elev. Otis A; cwwt -pu
and Magdalene Hershey, relict of T .
uasi wiu ui martin jviartinaaie ws, iuis ana o lnjioiians-
was admitted to probate and rec- burg, $1.
ord.
CASTOR I A
For Infants and Children
In Use For Over 30 Years
Always bears
the
Signature of
Lydia Scherer to Levi M. Boy-
c n . .
MAKKIAQE UCENSlfife. er " acres m wayne township.
Omar H. Stephens, 22, farmer, $984' .
Greenville, son of Wm. J. Ste- H- M- Peiffer to V. E. Peiffer,
phens, and Emma C. Beisner, claim to a lot in Gettysburg,
24, Greenville, daughter of Hen- $1. ,
ry C. Beisner. Goldie P. Lutz to V. E, Peiffer,
Earl D.'Mendenhall, 21, auto Quit claim to lot 14 in Gettys-
salesman, New Weston, son of burg, $L
Marion Mendenhall, and Edna G. Anna Peiffer to J. W. Vanlue,
Niles, 21, Lightbville, daughter part lot 14 in Gettysburg, $1.
very few men with trades in the significant note when he calls the the business man was practically
penal institutions of this country, attention of the Safety First Fed- driven from participation in pub-
For example, where there were eration of America to the eyer- lie affairs, his name was anathe
177 persons confined in a prison, increasing aggressiveness of matized. his Droi3rtv interests
there was not a single carpenter,
bricklayer, plasterer, tailor, prin
ter, painter, or member of the
street traffic toward pedestrians were subjected to exactions a
in every town and city of the mounting to almost confiscation,
land large enough to furnish ex- and upon his shoulder were laid
other skilled crafts, to be found. cuse or room for such . condition, the intolerance of the demagogue
In another state, out of all the The pedestrian must look out ' and the extravagance of a horde
That the movement to protect the
birds of the United States Is stronger
tliau it bus ever been Is the state
ment of T. Gilbert Pearson, secretary
of the National Association of Audu
bon Societies, in bis annual official re
port. Mr. 1'earsou. who is in active
charge of the association work, revcaU
in his report that in the last twelve
months progress has been made in the
bird protecting laws in sis states. A
backward step or two, through the le
moval of bird protecting restrictions,
are noted, but the friends of the birds
are said to have made marked prog
ress all over the United States, indi
cation of increasing interest in bird
protection is shown, hp says, by the
establishment of bird clubs in widely
scattered communities, lie regards
this as a "manifestation of the new
and widespread interest i:i inducing
birds to come about the home, which
has reccntlv developed." Nearly N.000
local bird classes have been urgaiiize.l
during the past year with a memi.cr
ship of more than 150,000 persons. A
gift to the association of $20,000 from
"a friend of the birds," who will not
allow bis name to be published, is an
nounced by the secretary.
It Is reasonable to suppose that the
Monroe doctrine will need to lie re
written somewhat aud emphasized
when the European war is over. Amer
ica is being well advertised at present
and if peace reigns here, with its usual
adjunct of prosperity, while other coun
tries are exhausting themselves, envi
ous, not to say greedy, eyes will ba cast
westward. The doctrine is usually in
terpreted as itpplying to Interference
by European monarchies with repub
lics already established here. But
monarchies have possessions here
which may become republics or may
fall as prizes to monarchies which we
prefer should not succeed the present
owners as, for instance, England and
Holland. Mexico and the countries
south are deeply interested in our de
velopment into a mighty world power.
They may or may not remain trusted
and complacent as the case now
stands. A pan-American alliance in
defense of the doctrine restated and
up to date might add to its force be
fore the world aud at the same time
make it no more aggressive than it is
now popularly supposed to be.
Mr. Choate should know what he is
talking about when he says that the
United States is the most hated nation
in the world. He served as ambassa
dor to England, where the pulse of the
world Is takeu. Nevertheless the smile
which the Europeans put on while bor
rowing our cash looks Just like the
kind that wou't come off.
'Tls said that kings and emperors
and lesser potentates are on the firing
line, but not one has yet struck an at
titude and shouted: "A horse, a horse!
My kingdom for a horse!"
Opera stars are invading the movie
stage. Now, if the innovation works
backward to the negro minstrels, there
will be broad grinning both on and in
front of the curtain.
