Bafta
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
week ending Feb. 9
25.87.
WEATHER
VNOZIHV 'XIN30H4,?t)na"F"r
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 226.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 17, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
raininr nTiTr f
i m c
LliM NIL UiniL
REPUBLICANS !
TAKE- FIRM i
Sffll
1
km WANT POWER RESTRICTED
TORONTO. Feb. 16. A resolu
tion asking the Canadian govern
ment to restrict the exportation
of electric power to the United
States and to restrict, also,
the expansion of private com
panies was adopted by the Hydro-electric
Railway Association
of Ontario in convention here.
Private companies at Niagara.
Falls are among those which
would be affected by any govern
ment action suggested in the res
olution. '
THE MEN WHO NEVER CAME BACK
New York Republicans in Con.
vention Stand for Adequate
Preparedness But Oppose
Early Freedom for Islands.
NO ENDORSEMENT !
OF FAVORfTE SONS
TROUBLE HAD
I in imrvm
in nun in
MEXICO
EMPIRE State's Delegates will j
dc jninsirucieu, jiana tor
Determined Defense of Amer
ican Rights Everywhere.
new york, Feb. 16. The Repub- i Inference Is Had From Wash-
lican National campaign will be ington That All Is Not V ell
waged as a fight for adeuate prepar- yj pacto Government
euness, lann reiorm, opposition
i
' ' v- W , ii X. i Ml J. J ' 1 T" T' -T' f r
. r,tfr : , V . - ? 1 -afc-r-T-Vr-"'"' 5'f i I'll ,7M V "l"?
( , ' ..ljf , .M M ff -.f '-f'-MfQ n M
i- - -ZJc
' S FIFTH NORFOLK REGIM ENT LEAVING ENGLAND , , ,
ERZERUm iiOU
l RUSSIAN
ARMIES'
GRASP
This is the last photograph taken of
the Fifth Norfolk Regiment as it left
(England months ago for Gallipoli. Not
one of tUese men has yet come back.
On the peninsula they charged the
Turks in a forest.' Their comrades
to
granting early independence to the
Philippines and insistence on a vigor
ous stand for American rights both
in Mexico and in relation to the
European war, according to the "key-1
note platform adopted today by the
Republican state convention. ITutlines
of the platform, which was approved
unanimously, were presented last
night in a speech by former Senator
Root.
While the delegates did not diCfer
on the platform, there was a bitter
fight over an attempt by supporters
of Governor Whitman to obtain un
qualified endorsement of his admin
istration and to force his nomination
as chairman of the delegation to the
national convention
that New York will 6end an
in Mexico.
PEOPLE COMPLAINING
OVER MONEY CONDITION
Americans Tell of Difficulty in
Getting to El Paso from the
City of Chihuahua. Car
ranza to Coast.
saw them whirling on, determined to
carry the enemy. And that was the
last ever seen of them. There, is hop
Turkey Loses Most Important
Armenian City; Erzerum
Center of Vast Importance;
Many Roads Radiate.
AUSTRIANS AND
BULGARIANS JOIN
Germans and British Battle
Unceasingly in West; Many
Trenches Taken by Teutons
Still Object of Fighting.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 16. A State
Department dispatch from Mexican
border related the difficulties eight
Americans and othe foreigners encoun
tered in getting from Chihuahua to El
Pao. The train on which they trav-1
The result was eled was held ft Chihuahua for four!
unin- days because of a strike of railroad
strutted delegation to the . national jmen and on reports that Villa men j
convention ir the voters uphold the.were opening along the line between !
action of the convention at the April jcVthuahua and the border. 350 sol-1
primaries. A determined fight wasjdiers SCOrted the train. Seventy-five j
led by Heny Stimson to obtain a re-of this nuniber were dropped at vari-j
solution recommending Root as Newl0(lj, stations en route. j
York's favorite son for the presidency! The strjke ls reported to be due to I
was defeated in the committee on the demand of the men that they be I
resolutions, a counter resolution mat Daid in 8iIvpr lnKte.d of tn depreciated
be en- j p,, money. It ended In an agree
. ment by which the men will accept
half silver and half paper. Assuranc
es were given by the Carranza foreign
'office at Guadalajara that the acting
British Admit Failure to Provide Air
Fighting Facilities Has Been Very Bad
LONDON, Feb. 16. In the debate in Parliament on the air defense or
the British, came remarkable admissions made by the Cabinet's spokes
man that present conditions were far from satisfactory. A. J. Balfour
scored a sensation when he declare I one of England's great pre-war
mistakes was her failure to develop a dirigible fleet similar t that of
Germany. '
Mr. Tennant, on behalf of the War Office, after outlining a scheme
for co-ordination of the army, navy and munitions, in air defense, said:
"While we have made strides in providing the proper equipment and de
fense for arsenals and vulnerable po'nts in the country, the safety for
every part of the kingdom against attack by long range air craft can nev
er be complete."
WRIT PETITION
DROPPED BY
no presidential candidate
dorsed passed unanimously.
FLOOD IN HOLLAND.
governor of Vera Cruz reported he has
given "appropriate, orders" ,for the pro
AMSTERDAM. Feb. 16. A -storm j
raging over Holland is causing great
enxietv. Hundreds of laborers are i
working day and night at the dykes. I tPCtion of 011 PpeIe in the Chapa
Strengthening material is rapidly be-!P0,e and P,rer0 rctS, near Tux
ing washed away by great waves and!Para- Rebe,s rKtnt.r have been act
telephone and telegraph lines are not!ive ,n that reK'on
working throughout the kingdom. j
Should the storm continue, it is! APPEAL TO DEPARTMENT
feared two thirds of the town of Mon- WASHINGTON, Feb. 16.-A further
nikendam in the province of North iaPnpaI for aid t0 the State Department
Holland near Amsterdam, will bejby tn Roman Catholic priests for the
flooded. . In several other towns restitution of church property, confis
waters have washed through thelcat,d in Mexico. The Department has
sluices and reached many homes. Oc- Already suggested to the Mexican gov-
cupants were obliged to evacuate.
FLOOD MORE SERIOUS.
ernment its restoration.
CARRANZA TO COLIMA
GUADALAJARA, Feb. 16. Carran-
NATCHEZ, Miss., Feb. 16. An rn. accompanied by Obreeon, leaves to
urgent appeal for help was received j night for Colima and Manzanillo on
from Newellton, where the Mississip-; the Pacific slope. At Manzanillo Obre
pi levee broke yesterday and it is said! eon will leave Carranza for Hermosil
more than a thousand persons arejlo. After inspecting conditions on the
marooned with only a motor boat to: western coast Carranza will re'turn to
take them to safety. Three negroes .Queretaro. the provisional capital.
were drowned and 5.000 acres In
undated near the town.
The government steamer La Four
cheleft left here with small boats and
rescue crews. Report says the gap
levee has widened to 10,000 feet. A
Newellton merchant telephoned that
the city was in a desperate condition
with water ranging from six inches to
six feet in the streets and a thousand
marooned on the opposite side of
HIDE EXPORT PROBLEM.
EL PASO, Feb. 16. Two carloads
of hides offered for export from Juer
ez, which American cattlemen de
clared contained eighty per cent
brands of owners having no part in
the transaction of sale, Carranza au
thorities ordered held for a reason-
Hi
that ovi' h nf tti 111011 a rt nrirtnetra
among the Turks and will ultimately j LONDON, Feb. 15. Erzerum, Tur
be returned, but it is only a hope, v , keT.,, t.hjef rity ln Armenia, is in the
; 1 hands of the Russians. Heavy as-
j .vaults by the Russians on the long
the
ffnrn rnr t I J J T I J If r saults by the Russians on the 1
$oUu,Uuu Included In tiwers and narborsh of detached protecting
rI t il - i ) -. t 'city lasting nve aays. are aescnoea Dy
dill wr ine oioraao mver ana luma c.
WASHINGTON, Feb. If The Annual River Harbor appropriation
biip, as finally perfected in committee carried more than thirty-nine
million. The committee agreed to inly two exceptions to the Admin
istration policy of not adding new projects, voting seven hundred thou
sand for inprovementa in East River New York and three hundred
thousand for work in the Colorado at Yuma.
The East River appropriation was put. in the bill after President
Wilson was convinced it was necessary to assure the approach at all
times to Brooklyn Navy Yard. The largest single item in the bill was
six millions for work along the Mississippi south of the Ohio.
e-rv. .-(FLOODS, EUROPE!:
DYESTUFFS SHORT.
IX)XPO.V, K 16. Thirteen
French aeroplanes -raided the
town and ramps of Strumitsa
in Bulgaria, yesterday, accord
ing to a Reuter dispatch from
Salonikl. They dropped 158
bombs, which caused several
fires.
1TE1LS
BOSTON. Feb. 16. The short
age of dyestuffs, with a demand
by textile manufacturers for th
product, was pointed out by a
dealer who reported that a bar
rel of violet dye was lwught
eleven months ago for $400 but
now sold here for $12,000.
Decision of Supreme Court
Puts Burden of Proof, As to
Personal Use, Upon the De-!
f endant. Aaron Gets Bond.
WIRELESS
TOMBSTONE, Feb. 16 (Special) j
The application of the writ of habeas
corpus in the case of the State vs.
Bert Aaron will not be presented toi
the court. When a certified copy ofj
the decision was received here today
It put a different phase on the opinion ,
than had been held by the Teading ofj
the newspaper reports. The opinion
L
III BE MORE
j Figures Swell Rapidly: Over
Hundred Million Donars Is
Represented . in Output of
High Explosives from U. S.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 16. American
made munitions are pouring into Eu
rope at the rate of two millions dol-
j lars worth daily. The figures are swell-!
ling as rapidly as the production In- J
creases. For a long time after the '
war began shipments were negligible. J
RICH DISTILLER
KILLED UNDER
md Duke Nicholas as unprecedent
ed and resulted in the capture. Un
official reports in early February said
(Field Marshal von der Dolt 2 and 80.000
I Germans were beseiged in the city
I with a fortnight's provisions. The cap
jture is considered of great strategic
importance. With stormy weather on
jthe western line the heavy fighting of
jthe last few days seemingly has sim
'inered down to artillery and mining op
jerations. In Albania the Austrians
land Bulgarians are said to have foroi-
;ed a Juncture battling for capture of
ithe important port of Durazzo. defend-
jed by Essad Pashas forces comprising
! Albanians, Serbians and Montenegrins
From Erzerum radiate roads in all
'directions. To the southeast and the
( I south it is possible the Russians mar
tiush their way towards their fompa
t ; triols fighting against the Persians and
, r Turks in northwest Persia, or proceed
; to Bagdad to the relief of the British
, ; bottled up at Kut-el-Amara on tb.4
. ' Tigris, southeast of Bagdad. The im-
' mediate effect of the Russians' victory
. Jon the situation in Persia and Veso-
l pel a ana is problematical. Tne coun
try is mostly mountainous and much
I ground is to be covered before the
Lake I'ranriah district is reached and
six hundred miles distant from Kut-lel-Amara.
The British and Germans
are still in death grips for possession
i of the trenches optured from tk
British southeast of Ypres.
I
PETROGRAD ELATED
in the middle of 1915 millions worithQuy Johnson, Slain Last De-i"1" c",1,ed P'
. j. . . .t . C- r D : " sr materials oegan to move in con , , ..... Caucasian rampi
siaies mat tne ouraen oi prooi, uiai i Jcucuu y pallid nctugiiucs ..,.,,,,.. Thp dpDartmpn.
Europe since the outbreak of the war
as close to a quarter of a billion dol
the liquor was brought in for personal
use devolves on the defendant and
that It is not necessary for the state
or the county attorneys to allege in
the information . that it was brought
in for an unlawful purpose.' or not for
" ' i n . m i Ka flstiifolA Avnn it nvwliirtt inn a Vistula)
the basis of the writ it was deemed "nn!ela announceo mat ne wouia au-; V " .... VVL ,
t-u it .i thorize the modifies! on of reeulnlinns I remain . r sinnusuii. on. inr pnxiui:
lie ajjyuufliiuii I -
Von BernstorfFs Stand ; Bel-1 of commerce estimated shipments to
ligerent Nations to Be Per
mitted to Send Messages.
PETROGRAD. Feb. 16. The fall of
Erreruni has confidently been awaited
lation here. Th
i -"r-t i i j Caucasian campaign aerivea great
cemuerm teioiuwtm, iQcn-bneflt from h RBMian. jonlinatlon
tined as Guy Hartman, Out-. 0f tne mack sea which enabled th
lawed North Carolinian. jarmy to receive a plentiful supply of
: provisions and munitions.
KL PASO. Feb. 16. Guy Johnson, f .
.1 WASHINGTON. Feb. 16. Secretary ( In np ppx months In total would
The rate of shipments of munitions the American reported killed by five,
ENGLAND'S DEBIT
best not to urge it.
attacked the information In that it did of fnsorate of wireless by naval offi-
not state that it was brought in forlrprs t0 permit, when no violation of
the purpose of "sale, barter, exchange.incutrality is Involved, passage of mes-
etc.." as the amendment is worded.
The part of the opinion bearing on
this part reads as follows: " It If
snges referring to naval vessels and
operations of belligerent shios. The
announcement was made af'er Von
urged against the sufficiency of thej Bernstnrff had asked the S'ate De
indictment that It does not negative nart ""en t for an explanation of I he act
any exemption of a lawful use to ion of the SavviHe censors in rejecting
which intoxicating liquor may be put. j dispatches to Berlin containing offl
That under the laws of Arizona it Is rial wnnouncement from the Admiral
not unlawful for one to drink intoxi- tv. which the British censors had pass
cating liquor in his possession for his'ed.
Daniels explained that the censors
Ko'ert iTder existing reeulatinns draft-
tion is declared to be growing faster
now than at any time since the Ameri
can manufacturers began the conver
Rion of their plants Into munitions fac
tories. A great part of the munitions
has been in the form of high explos
ive shells, more than a hundred mil
lion dollars worth of which baa left
America. Powder comes next, with
shin"ens estimated at nearly a nun-
idred millions. , i
able time to enable the claimants to I individual consumption.
take the case to United States courts. "Therefore, the information is oh
Lane ht. josepn. ao noats ror rescue ; The hides valued at $10,000 were sold ' noxious to a demurrer because it does od hv )b boari, of nava tfi f(cr
worn were aauau:e mere. i Dv General Luis Herrera. military) not negative such possession or law-!,,,,,
chief of Chihuahua, to a New York nil use. The constitutional amend-
firm under special permit. ment does not in terms relieve any
ILLINOIS WOMEN STIRRED
SPRING FIFLD. 111., Feb. 16. As the
result of the decision of the Supreme
Court refusing women the right to
vote in the approaching primaries.
ve stndv of ouestions of radio
censorship and nrohibitine transmis
sion into the United States of anv
The purchasers of the hides de-1 specified acts or persons from the gen-j referring to "movements and
clare they had no fear of an adverse ', eral operation of the prohibitory '1,-oHt, f .,i, aoi I
court ruling. Thev erferred to a de-i words of the law. and such not PntPr-jbotijeprpn,,.- The obiect of the reu-' out warnln rtAr Feb- 2S
SUBMARINE PROBLEM PENOS
WASHINGTON. Feb. 16. The sub
marine controversy with Bermany
cannot be closed until the United
States fully considers the possible ef
fect of the declared intention of the
Germanic powers to sink all armed
merchantmen of their enemies with-
Tbis an-
cislon by a New Jersey court in a j ing into a description of the offense, j ,,t,ot)R ,t ,a ,,, w, to prevent vlo. j "onncement was made by Secretary
case involving a shipment of hidesior as a qualification of the language'.... " , '...!.. .... .. Lansing instead of the expected an-
when delegates and alternates to the I alleged to have been solen by Villa I defining or creating the offense, a ioT,r(rhpi, r0ntainin infnrmsMon of t nounPpm''n' nf satisfactory settle
national conventions, state and pre-j and exported by him last year. This I negative averment of the matter of ' ..., . . .hiJ . . , . . ment, with Germany.
The perfecte dmonths' negotiations
cinct committeemen are to be selected
suffrage leaders of this city, inactive
for two years, are now planning to re-ort.nize.
held that Villa was de facto ruler of exemption Is not necessary. If an ex-
EDITOR GETS LIFE.
PURVISS, Miss., Feb. 16. Dr. Sam
uel Rees, editor of a weekly news
paper, convicted of the murder of
Wiley Plarkburne, the editor of a
competing paper last October,
the country under his control and
had a right to ronfscate the property.
With Carranza formally recognized
the agents of the leather dealers be
lieve other courts would follow this
precedent.
emption exists it Is a matter of de
fense which the prosecution need not
anticipate."
Then follows a list of authorities,
and the following from the opinion:
"The information is not objectionable
on this ground. If the point is avail
able at all it is a matter of defense I
DNWARn.MCt ABANDONED.
VANCOUVER. Feb. 18. The fishing, to be taken advantage of by evidence b0!,r'1 ,omorrow-
steamer OnwardTIo. owned by the , on the trial of the case. The informa-
was 'British Columbia Packers. Assocla-l tion is entitled in a court having
iMonrtrhc rontaini"? information of
military value whirh mieht he ued
v neent of belligerent nations in the
United State. In cases of informa
tion comine officially from foreign gov
emments and lso printed in the ter
rUnrv of the enemy ronntrv. the Sec
retary said he believed the prohibition
could be removed. The snbiect will
he railed to the attention of the naval
agreement presented bv the German
ambassador today would have been
acceptable to the United States ex
cept for the Germanic powers' an
nounced intention to regard ' armd
merchantmen ships of the enemies as
warships. It is practically assured the
United States will ask to be specifi
cally informed If assurances previous
ly given fof safety of centrals at so
sentenced to life. Blackburn was
killed in the court house after a dis
pute with Rees over the printing bids.
tion and missing since January
with a crew of thirty-four,
up for lost.
Kensas has 77.000 automobiles regis, have not been or will not be altered.
18. authority to receive it. It was re-1 tered. Two years ago the atat had on i Officials are afraid thev wUl find the.
bandits before he was slain. Dec. 26
last, near Telolocachi. Chihuahua, was LONDON. Feb. l.-Chancellor of
in reality Guy Hartman. a wealthy j Sxrhenuer McKenna announced that
North Carolina distiller sought bv the i,m British national debt at tbe end
American government in connection of ,hff flr"' yer- Marrn wou,d b
with revenue frauds, according to in-1 5.20.000.000 pounds. Germany's gross
formation disclosed here todav. Gov-!ar expenditures to the end of 191
ernment officials refused confirmation ! -r- niore than l.SOrt.000.000 pounds,
referring the matter to revenue ofTI-! f'-e.lit-! voted by France from the ou
tbreak of the war to December, lSlo.
brought briw,'r ubonX 1.240.0n0.noo pounds and
rials at Washington.
The Hartman story
is
refugees from Chihuahua just arrived
here.
Hartman or Johnson fled to Mexico
last year, it Is said. He became a
ranch hand just prior to the disrlos-!
for tbe Art onarter of 1P16 approxi
mate 200.920.000 pounds.
MORE PREPAREDNESS
WASHINGTON, Feb. 16. Commit-
ure or fnyids which Involved distillers I tee bills to increase regulars between-and-United
States revenue officials Inj'RO.poo and 200.000 mn. and propos
Tennessee and other states. Revenue ing a scheme of federalization of the
agents wen to Chihuahua in October national guard under the militia pay
to induce Hartman to return. They j act probably will go before both hous
failed to see Hartman. The man isjes within three, weeks. The navy
said to have been trying to make his I building program will not be ready be-
way from Chihuahua to Sonora when j fore May. Chairman Padgett urges
attacked by bandits, five of whom j members to sneed In examination of
were killed before they succeeded in ! witnesses. The naval committee.
slaying him. struggled with the question of submar
. . ine. Rear Admiral Grant said Ameri-
FRANCIS TO RUSSIA? ran builders could produce forty eisht
WASHINGTON. Feb. IS David R. 100-ton submarines In twelve months.
Francis, former secretary of the In-j The House Military Committee be-
terior and former governor of Mis-! gins work tomorrow on the federaiiza-
ouri. is under serious consideration i tion bill. If it prove a strong measure
for ambassador to Russia to succeed
George Mayre.
is given turned and presented to the court by
I (Continued on Page Two.)
nee county has an automobile.
ARM GERMAN SHIPS
MOBILE. Feb. 16. Eleven German
steamers at ib Canary Islands have
bea secretly arTed for commerce
raiding and are prepared for a dsih t
sea, according to a statement by tbe
ly S4.9H4. Every other familr in Paw- rontroveray at the point it started th'P'n of 'he American steamer Fdr
first day of the submarine crisis.
gar Murdot k, in port here.
influential senators say it will be ac
cepted in the Senate. The Hous
Ways and Means Committee has tak
en no steps to meet the increased de
fense expenditures and I still larking
estimates. It is understood that lead
ership in the House preparedness
fight will ret with Rffpresentativ
Hay of tbe Military CommiM And
Representative Tadgett of the Naval
Committee.
I
