te«
"-w/irw^4
al
1
I?
».
*L--"
,- k-
1
(Ml
*v ^-i ''1
The Weather
FAIR
THIRTY-SIXTH YEAR, NO. 41
THE 1916
C. 0. P.PLATFORM
Adequate Military Preparedness
and Tariff Reform Will Be
Demanded.
UNINSTRUCTED DELEGA­
TION TO CHICAGO
Resolution to Recommed Root
for Presidency Defeated by
Committee.
New York, Feb. 16.—The republi­
can national campaign will be fought
on demands for adequate military
preparedness and tariff reform, oppo­
sition to granting early independence
to the Philippines and insistence for
a bigger stand for American rights
both in Mexico and in relation to the
'European war, according to the "key­
note"' platform adopted today by the
republican state convention.
The otulines of the platform, which
was approved unanimously, were pre­
sented last night in the speech of for­
mer Senator Elihu Root.
There was no difference in opinion
apparent among the 832 delegates to
the convention in regard to the plat­
form, but a bitter fight was precipi­
tated by the attempt of the support­
ers of Governor (Whitman to secure
an unqualified endorsement for his
administration, and to force his nom­
ination as chairman of the delega­
tion to the national convention in
Chicago, in which they were unsuc­
cessful.
Delegates Uninstructed.
The net result was that New York
state will send an unin3tructed dele­
gation .to. tjie national convention if
the action of the convention is upheld
by the voters at the primary election
in April.
A determined 'fight, lead by Henry
L. 'Stimson, to obtain a resolution
recommending Mr. Root as New
York's favorite soft, tor the presidency
was defeated in the committee on res­
olutions, on a counter resolution that
no presidential candidate be endors­
ed was parsed unanimously.
The'' principal ground upon which
the cfppbnetits of the Root resolution
fought was that an endorsement of
/Mr. iRoot wo.uld preclude the possi­
bility of faew York putting forward
Supreme Court Justice Charles F.
Hughes as the state'? candidate for
the presidency. A former statement
issued said Mr. 'Root, himself, was op­
posed to the use of bis name.
Commend Whitman.
The question of endorsement of the
Whitman administration ended in a
compromise, by which two resolutions
were presented to the convention, one
dealing exclusively with national af­
fairs, and the other "commending"
Governor Whitman for his conduct
of the state's administration.
TO FIGHT~TEDDY.
'Springfield, HI., Feb. 1G.—The Anti
Roosevelt Republican league, the
sworn purpose of which is to oppose
the nomination of Theodore Roose­
velt as candidate of the republican
party for president, by "lawful means
or, if necessary, by stooping to adopt
the methods and practices heretofore
used by Theodore .Roosevelt and his
followers," received incorporation pa­
pers here today from Secretary of
State Lewis G. Stevenson.
The incorporators are: David Da­
vis, former mayor of iLitchville, 111.,
and former chairman of the Mont­
gomery county central committee W.
'E. Newsomme, a member of the Mont­
gomery county central committee,
and A. V. Price, a negro politician.
mil utile
TALKS £0EFBBE
Frank Admission Made That the
Present Conditions Are Most
Unsatisfactory.
'London, Feb. 16.—Today's debate in
parliament on the air defense of Great
Britain was chiefly remarkable for
the frank admissions made by the cab­
inet's spokeman that the present con­
ditions are far from satisfactory.
Andrew Bonar Law, secretary for
the colonies A. J. Balfour, first lord
of the admiralty, .and H. J. Tennant,
under-secrtary for war, all spoke in
this phase. They declared, however,
that the government was doing all
that was humanly possible.
Mr. Balfour scored the sensation of
the day when he declared that one of
England's great mistakes in the days
prior to the war was her failure to de­
velop a dirigible airship fleet along
lines similar to that of Germany.
"With regard to Zeppelins," he said,
"looking back on events, I am sorry
that we did not develop that type of
vessel, not so much for aggression
land defense, as for maritime and oth
jer scooting. Certainly Germany has
had an advantage in possessing
•them."
&sk
^jy^yryfwp yy
1
1
Minot Joins Institution
Towns in Fighting Plan
to Remove Stat&^Capital
Valley City, Ellendale, and Mandan Are Cities Having Interests
Identical to Bismarck Which Resent Disturbing the Distribu­
tion and Location of State Institutions Placed There Already
by a Referendum Vote of the People.
Minot and that section of the state is out squarely against the
proposition to move the capital to New Rockford. This sentiment is
reflected in an editorial expression of the Optic-Reporter.
Valley City, /Ellendale and iMandan have already voiced their dis­
approval of the plan. The editorial appearing in the Opticilteporter
of recent issue represents the sentiment of a majority of voters in the
state.
Caution should be taken not to sign petitions. It should not be
possible for a minority of the voters of the state to force this' issue to a
vote.
DON'T SIGN PETITIONS.
AH state institutions were located by a referendum vote of the
people when the constitution was adopted. The Minot (Normal school
was established by a special referendum later. New iRockford has not
advanced one argument in support of its foolish dream. It merely wants
the capital, that is all.
It is time for towns having state institutions to abandon neutrality
in this matter. Everyone should be fighting side by side with Bis­
marck in this fight, as are the cities already mentioned Read this
excellent editorial from the Minot Optic-IReportcr, entitled, "Putting the
Capital On Wheels," and
DOtN'T SIGN PETITIONS:
The Optic-Reporter holds no brief for either the city of Bismarck
or New iRockford in the capital removal fight. Its policy is dictated by
what it believes in the best interests of the people of the state as a
whole and justice and a square deal to the great portion of the state
which lies west of the line running north and south through .New
Rockford. We have no criticism of the ambitions and enterprise of
the people of INew IRockford in seeking the capital. They arc the
livest bunch of enterprising people in the state, else they would not'
have undertaken the task tliey have. But we believe their ambitions
and enterprise in the capital removal matteer are ill-judged and futile.
The same energy expended in a commercial developmont campaign for
their city would have produced far greater results and much more
permanency. For, once the capital is put on wheels, it may be expected
to become a traveling show with every city of importance in the state
wanting it and the one which has it forced to put up costly fights
every few years to keep it. The Optic-Reporter would be glad to join
hand* in aa. eifort -to "permwrently^hjcate ttte state fair, which is now
on wheels and located on the eastern border of the state, at New Rock­
ford, and the beneficial results to the city from that enterprise located
where it would serve the people of the whole state better, would be
greater than those arising from the location of the state capital.
EMBROIL STATE.
The present campaign to remove the capital already has, and for
the next fifty years will, embroil the state in a bitter political turmoil
that will be carried to the other state institutions. For, if the capital
ibe removed, why not every other public institution? When the location
of the iNormal school at Minot was first discussed, it was suggested
that the Mayville INormal, which is crowded in between the University
and the Agricultural college, be removed. iBut the people who wanted
the 'Minot Normal were fair and had no desire to begin the loading of
state institutions on wheels, which would have produced a strife and
engendered a hatred ruinous to the state and its institutions. But if
the process is once starter, the precedent will be established and
sectional animosities will be developed and every appropriation for the
support of these institutions will come in contact with the removal
influences in the legislature. The disastrous effects of such things on
the institutions are too apparent to need discussion.
IS AN INJUSTICE.
The removal of the capital to New iRockford is an injustice to the
western part of the state. It is giving another institution to the eastern
end of the state, which now has far more than an equitable share.
To emphasize this injustice to the western two-thirds of the state,
which the campaign by New Rockford means, a few facts are sub­
mitted. If the state be divided by a line running north and south on
the western border of Eddy county, which is about ten miles west of
New Rockford, and as far east as a division can be made so as to include
the capital aspirant, there will be in the eastern division about six
hundred and fifty townships with an area of approximately 24,000
square miles. In the western division there are not far from thirteen
hundred townships, with an area of almost 47,000 square miles. Thus,
it will be seen that the eastern end of the state on this division—'which
is the only fair one—has about one-third of the total area of the state.
According to the population figures of lfllO, which are the last pub­
lished figures, and which cannot be charged with Bismarck doctoring
—there were in the counties in the eastern division of the state indi­
cated, in round numbers, 277,000 population, and in the western division
299,000, with the populations of the counties split by the division line,
artificially divided, but as nearly equitably so as it is possible to guess.
Furthermore, during the last five years, as is well known, the western
counties of the state have increased their population more than one
fourth on a conservative average, while the eastern counties have not
much more than held their own.
WHAT EAST HAS.
IBut the injustice of the capital removal which stands out most
prominently is the number of state institutions already located in the
eastern division indicated, compared with those located in the western
division, and for the support of which the money of the taxpayers
of the entire state is'expended largely locally. In the eastern division
are the following state institutions:
University, Grand Forks.
Agricultural College, Fargo.
Normal School, Mayville.
Normal School, Valley City.
School of Science, Wa^peton.
Industrial School, Cllendale.
'Insane Asylum, Jamestown.
Oeaf School, Devils 'Lake.
'Blind Asylum, Bathgate.
institute For Feeble-Minded, Grafton.
(Continued on
it
k£' c*
9#
1
A
.?,,
J,.,
'A ~K S
^•y
r. .^'vii.'
Possible That New Ruling May
Nullify Conditions in Lusi-
tania Agreement.
LONG EXPECTED ANSWER
TO GERMAN NOTE DELAYED
United States Still Stands Out
for Principles of Law and
Humanity,
Washingtong, Feb. It .—The sub­
marine controversy with Germany
cannot be closed until the United
States has fully considered the pos­
sible effects of the declared inten­
tions of the Germanic powers to sink
all unarmed merchant .ships of their
enemies without warning after Feb­
ruary 29.
This announcement was made by
Secretary Lansing today, instead of
the long expected announcement of a
satisfactory settlement of the Lusi
tania negotiations.
Perfected by months of patient, and
at times, perilous, negotiations, the
Lusitania agreement was presented
today by Count von Bernstorff, the
German ambassador, in a form which
would have been acceptable to the
United States had not the Germanic
powers announced their determination
to regard armed merchant ships of
their enemies as warships.
May Change Agreement.
The Lusitania agreement now will
not be accepted, as finally acceptable
to the United States, until President
Wilson and Secretary Lansing have
decided whether any of its terms
would be nullified by the principles of
the new submarine campaign.
It is practically certain that the
United States will ask to be specifi­
cally informed that the assurances
previously given for the safety of neu­
trals and non-comi)alr nts at sea, have
not been and will be altered by
thq, latest declarat^&v of tfie Berlin
and Vienna admiralties.
American officials fear that the
United States and Germany may find
themselves at the same point they
stood in the first days of the submar­
ine crisis, with the United States con­
tending unreservedly for the prin­
ciples of law and humanity in naval
warfare, and confronted with a long
series of diplomatic exchanges, the
result of which they cannot foresee.
Abide By Promise.
Count von Bernstorc told Secretary
Lansing today it was his personal
opinion that in the new submarine
campaign, his government intended
to abide by its promise not to sink un­
resisting "liners" without warning,
given in the Arabic case and referred
to in the Lusitania agreement.
Mr. Lansing informed the ambassa­
dor that such a declaration from his
government suggested the possibility
of postponing the effective date of the
new submarine campaign, if it would
give time for negotiations to clarify
the confused situation, but the Secre­
tary did not commit himself.
What form the next step in the ne­
gotiations will be is not disclosed, but
there are strong indications that the
German government will be asked to
assure the United States that mer
chantships armed for defensive pur­
poses only will be exempt from un­
warranted attacks.
(Situation the Same.
State department officials, pressed
for statements, replied that they con­
sidered the situation where it was
several weeks ago, when it was de­
scribed as "grave."
Diplomatic correspondence will con­
tinue with Austria, as well as with
Germany.
SELL ALLIES TWO
OF
SUMS DAILY
Using One Third of All American
Exports France Holds
Third Place.
Washington, Feb. 16.—American
made war munitions are now pouring
into 'Europe at a rate of nearly $2,000,
000 worth daily, with the figures
swelling rapidly as production in­
creases. For a long time after the
war began, shipments were negligible
and not until the middle of 191'5 did
the millions of dollars worth of war
materials contracted for begin to
move in considerable quantitiees.
Estimates made at the department
of commerce today put total for mu­
nitions shipments since Inhope be­
gan to purchase for the present war
close to a quarter of a billion dollars.
BREAK IN RIVER LEVEE.
'New Orleans, La., 'Feb. 16.—A third
break within, the last two days in the
lower Mississippi levees Was report­
ed tonight from Ostrica. La., about 70
miles ibelow New Orleans. Heav."
damage is feared in the truck and
orange farms in the path of the break.
ii'
•••!^'~»V:-- '-v
(HEWS OF THE WORLD) BISMARCK, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 17, 1916. (BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) FIVE CENTS
LOSS OF OVER 4 MILLION
®rih
int.
SWEEPJOUNTRY
Ten Killed by Collapse of Old
Opera House During: School
Art Exhibit.
BY FIRE IN BROOKLYN
Fire and Explosions Wreck Am­
erican Club in Toronto Big
Fall River Blaze.
Mexia, Tex., Feb. 115.-—Ten persons
w6re killed here early tonight in the
collapse of the old opera house build­
ing, which was followed by a gas ex­
plosion and lire that for a time threat­
ened the entire business section of
the town. Numerous other persons
were injured.
Search continued late into the night
for the other bodies which it was fear­
ed might be buried in the ruins, al­
though it was believed that all per­
sons in the building had been account­
ed for.
The death list included the superin­
tendent of city schools, his wile and
one of their children.
The old opera hall, seldom used,
had been opened for an art exhibition
for the public schools and spectators
had begun to assemble when, without
warning, the structure gave way,
burying them in a mass of debris and
heavy timbers.
The confusion caused by the acci­
dent was intensified by a terriiic gas
explosion which followed almost im­
mediately.
This caused fire in the wreckage.
The flames spread to other buildings,
but were under control after four
hours. The property loss is estimated
at $5,000. .i(jAiflij)
British Boats Burned.
New York, Feb. ]6.—No evidence of
fncendiari&m lias -been found it was
announced tonight, in connection with
the fire on the Brooklyn water front,
early today, which caused the de­
struction of three British steamships,
37 lighters and barges, a new 900-foot
pier, 'belonging to the New York Dock
company, and $1,000,000 worth of
merchandise consigned to the En­
tente allies.
The total loss is estimated at be­
tween $3,000,000 and $4,000/000.
(Although nearly 300 persons were
imperiled by the flames, which raged
Sercely for several hours, only one
man, a member of the crew of one
of the steamers, was unaccounted for
tonight. Several persons were injur­
ed, however, and there were many
sensational rescues.
A rigid investigation, conducted by
officials of the fire department, has
convinced them that defective elec­
tric wiring was responsible for the
flames.
Twenty Buildings Razed.
Fall River, Mass., Feb. 16.—The
origin of the fire early today which
razed 20 buildings, covering more
than an acre of the business district,
at a loss estimated as closely ap­
proaching $1,500,000, had not been de­
termined tonight. It was established
that an explosion marked the early
stages of the fire, but state officers
said the 'explosion was not that of a
boiler and they were not prepared to
advance any theory as to the cause.
Only a few families lost their shel­
ter by the 'fire, and no «ne was in­
jured.
American Club Wrecked.
Toronto, Ont., Feb. 16.—One man
was killed and two others injured in
a fire which early today wrecked the
six-story structure which was the
home of the American club. Several
explosions were heard, while the fire
was burning. Reports, unconfirmed,
were that the blaze was the result of
an alien military plot, the American
club having recently been the scene
of demonstrations in favor of the Al­
lies.
Fire Chief iW. J. 'Smith said tonight
that, wbile he has not yet made a
thorough examination of the burned
building, he was convinced that the
destruction was due to explosives.
.Recover 15 Bodies.
Butte, Mont., Feb. 16.—The fire in
the Pennsylvania mine of the Ana­
conda Copper 'Mining company, which
caused the death of .21 men Monday
night, was extinguished today. Fif­
teen bodies have been brought to the
surface. Six bodies, found today, will
be brought to the surface as soon as
the gas and fumes from the fires are
blown out of the mine.
IN SISAL INQUIRY
Washington, Feb. 16.—Attorney
General Gregory, after listening today
to an explanation of the plans of the
American Selling agency, handling
the sisal produced in Yucatan, Mexi­
co, reserved decision on the question
whether the agency is in violation of
the Sherman anti-trust act.
km*?
SAY BRITON'S WIFE
AIDS U. S. PLOTTER
"Dr." J. Grant Lyman.
"Dr." J. Grant Lyman, who is be-j
5ng sought by the federal authorities)
Ion a charge of swindling investors inj
mining stock out of $300,000 ori
($400,000 by illegal use of the mails!
funder the name of John H. PutnarriJ
jhas been engaged in German propa-j
Iganda, according to a statement
[made by postofficc inspectors. It is
(charged he has been supplying Ber
lin with information obtained from
(the wife of an English army officer,
paid to be a member of the British!
general staff serving in France.
EULOGY IS GIN
BY HEY. CRM AT
BREWSTp RITES
BeauttfiiL. Xn^ute Is Pai^ to the
liaki North Dakota'
Official.
IMPRESSIVE MASONIC
CEREMONY IS USED
Hundreds paid a final tribute yes­
terday afternoon to O. Brewster,
resident member of the state board of
control, who died Monday morning.
The chapel of the lodge was crowded
and many stood through the impres­
sive Masonic ceremony.
An eloquent eulogy of the life and
character of the deceased was given
by Rev. R. H. Craig of Dickinson. The
ceremony was under the direction of
Ti, K. Thompson, assisted by Theo.
Koffel and" A. Eppinger. The guard
of honor was composed of the follow­
ing Knights Templar: Henry Reade,
Carl Jorgenson, (Jus Jacobson and W.
A. McDonald.
Floral Tributes.
A large number of floral tributes
were sent from various lodges, indi­
viduals and the board of control. El
Zagal temple of Fargo sent a beauti­
ful floral tribute.
Following a brief service at the
Brewster home, the body was taken to
the Masonic temple, where it lay in
state for an hour. Many came to pay
their respect.
The local lodge was well represent­
ed at the funeral. Members of the
Knights Templar were there in uni­
form and escorted the funeral cortege
as far as Seventh street on its way to
St. Mary's cemetery.
One of the beautiful features of the
services was the singing of the male
quartet.
At St. Mary's cemetery the funeral
was also under the direction of the
local lodge.
Rev. Craig's Address.
The address of Rev. R. H. Craig at
the Masonic temple follows:
"Worshipful Master and Brethren,
we are assembled here this afternoon
to mingle our tears with those of the
bereaved. 1 want to spend a few mo­
ments this afternoon in talking about
a subject of which we are necessarily
somewhat ignorant, of which our
knowledge must necessarily be some­
what limited, and that is the life be­
yond.
"I do not know that we have any
right to talk about the present life
and the future life. We should rather
think of one unending life. We gather
around a new made grave and we drop
our tears of sadness and say 'a man
is dead, while Angels shout and cry
a man is born.' Death is not the end.
Properly speaking, death is only the
beginning of the endless years that
we have to live, and that we may live
at God's right hand. I say our knowl­
edge of the future must necessarily 'be
limited. People are living all about
us. A boy of five or six years of age
does not know much about the world
of a man of twenty years. And a
man of twenty does not know much
about the activity of the world of a
man of forty, and I think it is best,
probably, that we are limited in our
knowledge of the future. If we
(Continued on Page Four)
A
4,
n«SM*
A
'J*
f*V
if suit
4L'Vj
Last Edition
rj*iVJ* f)t%j
RUSSIANS IIIKE
TURKEY'S CHIEF
ARMENIAN CITY
if
Erzerum Falls Before Attack of
Muscovites Of Great Strat*
egic Value.
HEAVY FIGHTING IN WEST
STOPPED BY SNOWSTORM
Belgium Is Assured by Entente
Ministers It Will Have Part
in Peace Parleys,
Petrograd, Feb. 16.—Official an
nounnement is made that the 'Russians
have captured Erzerum. Grand Duke
Nicholas has telegraphed the emperor
as follows:
"God has granted the brave' troops
of the army of the Caucasus such
great help that Erzerum has been tak­
en, after ifive days' unprecedented as­
sault. I am inexpressably happy to
announce this victory to Your Imperi*
al Majesty."
lErzerum is Turkey's chief city in
Armenia.
Unofficial reports early in the pres*
ent month Baid the German field mar
shal, von der Goltz, with 80,000 men,
was besieged in the city with pro*
visions for only a fortnight.
Of Strategic Value.
The capture of 'Erzerum is consid­
ered of great strategic importance.
From it radiates roads leading in all
directions. Over those to the south*'
east and south, it will be possible for
the Russians now to fight their way
toward their compatriots, operating
against the Persians' and Turks in
northwest and west Persia, or pro­
ceed south toward Bagdad to the re*
lief of the British, bottled up at •Kut
El-Amara, on the Tigris, southeast oC
Bagdad.
Heavy Fighting Stops.
With the advent of stormy weath­
er on the western battle line, the
heavy fighting of the past few days
seemingly jias simmered down again
to, artqierjf...bflimjMiwimentfr.and atfii*
-ing operations.
On the Russian fronts, a driving
snow storm along the entire line has
almost stopped operations. The usual
bombardment, interspersed with in­
fantry attacks, continue on the
tro-italian line.
In Albania the Austrians and Bul­
garians are said to have formed a
juncture, and are battling for the cap­
ture of the important seaport of Du
razzo, which is being defended by
Albanians, Serbians and Montene­
grins.
Must Restore Belgium.
The minister of the Entente pow­
ers has informed the Belgium gov­
ernment that hostilities against the
Teutons and their allies will not be
stopped without 'Belgium having re­
established its political and econom­
ical independence. They added that
the Belgium government would also
be called upon to take part in the
peace negotiations.
More German Raiders.
Eleven German steamers laid up in
the Canary Islands ports, uave been
secretly armed for commerce raiding,
and are prepared to make a dash for
the open sea, according to a state­
ment made in Mobile, Ala., today by
Captain iF. E. Magune of the American
schooner, Edgar J. Murdock, who
says he delivered 2,100 tons of coal to
German agents in Teneriffe and saw
it loaded into the bunkers of the in­
terned German vessels. Murdock is
in port here.
Captain Magune refused to give the
name of the agents who chartered the
schooner to transport the cargo ot
coal from Norfolk. The coal was con­
signed to a Spaniard employed 'by a
German coal company in Santa Criffe.
It was transferred to lighters, and im­
mediately taken alongside the Ger­
man ships and loaded into bunkers.
The Murdock left Norfolk October
29 with 2,100 tons of coal on which
the freight was prepaid.
Air Attack On Camp.
Thirteen (French aeroplanes carried
out a raid on the town and camps of
Strumitsa, Bulgaria, yesterday, ac­
cording to a Reuter's dispatch from
Saloniki today. The machines drop­
ped 158 bombs, causing several fires,
it is added.
The dispatch states that the ma*
chines, although subjected to a severe
bombardment, returned to their base
untouched.
RAILROAD ATTORNEYS
FIGHT FORECLOSURE
Dallas, Texts, Feb. 16.—Alleging
that foreclosure proceedings do not
constitute a "controversy arising
from the laws of the United States,"
counsel for the Texas & Pacific Rail­
way company began here' today In
federal court the first attack on the
position of the Bankers Trust com­
pany of New York, seeking a receiver
for the railroad..i'^ ..
THE WEATHER.
North Dakota: «*lr weatkar
with moderate temperatars for
Thursday and Friday.
rS&£
sSii
