The T.-R. WD Give
"Home News Daily
y'lr- fw
The Russians have twice decided
wars against Turkey in their favor
toy the capture of Erzerum, and each
Jf time Erzerum has toeen handed back
in the ipeaice arrangements. While the
attacks of the Russians against the
fortress in 1877 were unsuccessful,
Sk- their occupation of the town during
the armistice of 1878 Anally brought
W the Turks to accept the terms of
peace.
iff The assault and capture of the
-'w fortress by the Russians on July 29
•V decided the campaign in Asia.
The fortifications of Erzerum have
been greatly strengthened since the
'attacks in 1877.
,'fk Turks Had Largs Army.
4
rMpI
For Many Towns
W*
VOLUME FORTY-TWO
100.000
AT ERZERUM
Capture of Turkish City
Moat Important of Recent
War Events.
S*
EFFECT MAY BE
FAR REACHING
Alllea Billeve Fall of City l« Desdly
Blow
ta
Turlcav—Givaa Russia Key
Blow to Turkey—•Givss Russia *ey
to Asia Minor, as in Two Previous
Wars—'Allied Linos Near Saloniki
Extended and River Bridges Occu
pied—Austrian* Repulse Italians.
Petrograd, via London, Feb. 17.—The
official Messenger estimates the Turk
ish garrison at Erzerum, capture of
which was announced yesterday, as
104,000 men. It is also estimated that
comment on the fall of the fortress.
The Novo© "Vremya considers the cap
ture
to have enormous importance" as
It points out that Erzerum is a center
of roads and railway routes and has
immense depots fojr ammunition and
supplies.
The Ketch says that the taking of
the allies ln many months. The mili
tary experts dwell upon the importance
of the capture, declaring that it gives
the 'Russians the key to Asia Minor and
Is a victory which will inevitably have
far-reaching consequence.
General JBerthaut in the Petit Jour
nal says It Is not only a deadly blow to
It is understood that the Turtcs had
concentrated at Erzerum an army of
consideroible size, as recent press dls
patches
said
German Field Marshal
HH Baron von der Goltz was In command
there with 80,000 men. It iwas said
their escape had been cut off and thait
they had provisions for only a fort
night. A relief expedition was sent by
the Turks, tout It was reported these
." forces
had
toeen defeated toy the Rus-
j, sians, with heavy losses to the Otto
man army.
Last September Grand Duke Nlcho-
las, who had toeen Russian command
Athens, dated Feb. 1«, says that
the French have occupied all the
bridges over the Vardar river and that
the Greeks have^-eccupied the Tiver
from Topsln down to its mouth, ac
cording to a telegram received from
Saloniki.
Tho Greek newspaper Patris has re
ceived word from Fiorina that the sit
uation of the Greek inhabitants of
Monasttr and of the neighboring vil
lages has been rendered exceedingly
difficult by ths operations of 'Macedon
ian Bulgarians, who are extorting
money and pillaging the property of the
Greeks. Many Greeks of prominent po
sitions. the newspaper correspondent
says, have been deported to Sofia. It
is added that in explanation of their
action in sending away the neuti'al con
:sul« from teonastir. the Bulgarian au
thorities declare that they took this
meaiure because they now consider
that Monasttr Js Within, the sone of
military operations in consequence of
\Jts tmnhai dment by French aeroplanes.
-Jv i*wg*nt, p»
the Vardar r'.vcr, about,
PtofMM «in«r northwest of Saloniki, is big to 'a repo
ubeen
JrSj^ :A: ^'. f-• w.V,
nounced that the Hue of defenses of the
Saloniki camp of the allies begins to
the west. From there It mounts the
river to Karasull and sweeps thence
into a semi-circle to the southwest, en
closing Salonlicl.]
Pay For War Prisoners.
Paris, Feb. 17.—Under the terms of
an order Issued by the war office, and
published In the army organ, La France
Mllitaire, German officers who are pri
soners of war In France are to receive
each month pay equal to that of
French officers on leave, as previously
fixed In French army regulations. Sim
ilar treatment Is to be accorded Frenctt
officers who are prisoners In Germany.
This condition Is the result of negotia
tions between the two governments.
Italian Attack Repulsed.
Vienna, via London, Feb. 17.—An
Austrian official statement. Issued un
der date of Feb. 16, announces that the
eighth attack by Italian outposts on the
Austro-Hungarian position on Javereck
waB
rePulsed- T*e
the Kround ln
statement adds that
fr0 ntof the new Austrian
positions in the Rombon district is cov
ered with Italian dead.
BRITISH SUFFER HEAVILY.
Lose 2,000 Officers and Men in Battle
in Meaopotamia.
Constantinople, via London, Feb. 17.
—The losses of one of the 'British ex
peditions in Mesopotamia in a battle
with the Turks near Batlha, west of
Korna, amounted to 2,000 officers and
men, according to an official an
nouncement given out by the Turkish
more than 1,000 guns were captured war office department under, date of
Public rejoicing over the capture of ^f^emont
Brzerum is reflected in the newspaper
also says that Rua.
8,ana Jo8t 5 000 men kuled ln a three_
day battle on the -Caucasian front.
POLAND NOT DENIED FOOD.
Allies Object to Shipment Under Neu
tral Control Fearing Seizure.
London, Feb. 17.-—Great Britain has
not refused to allow food to reach Po-
Erzerummenaces ail Asia Minor and land, acocrding to a statement mad*
even Constantinople.
bV
The Bourse Gazette believes that the tary, in reply to a question in tho
capture will Shave an effect upon house of commons today.
Athens and Bucharest as well as upon The foreign minister added that the
Persia and Afghanistan. -entente governments had been re
t. _____ qirtsted to permit food to be sent to
Vs Effect 'Far "Reaching. Poland under neutral control but the
Paris Feb 17 The capture of the allies had replied they could not con
great Turkish stronghold Erserum is aider the question until "methods of
declared by French newspapers this spoliation" adopted by the central
morning as the best item of news for powers had ceased. To do otherwise.
Sir Edward Grey, the foreign secre-
he said, would be merely to supply
food to the Germans.
Under the guise of a question to Sir
Edward Grey, Laurence Glnnell, na
tionalist member of parliament for the
north division of West Meath, made
the allegation that pressure had been
used by the'entente allies to dissuade
Turkey hut an event which can not fall the Belgian government from accept
to have its effect on the other theaters I in* from Germany an offer to re-es
crf the war tabllshed the Integrity of Belgium, to
President iPoincare telegraphed con- restore her Independence ind to fully
graiulkucns on the capture of Eraerum compensate her for damages sus-
logBmpsror Nichoiaa *nM3*a#4
PukoNitfWpias, commawlrf, gf the Rus
sian forces on the Caucasian front.
It Is said there were 467 guns In
outer forts, 874 ln the central forts and
200 Held guns.
(treat Strategic Point.
'I- The capture of Erzerum, which has
teen\the objective of the recent cam
paign of the Russians ln the Cau
casus, represents one of the few defi
nite aocomipSlshments of the Cau
casus campaign. Erzerum, whtcta lies
sixty miles west of the (Russian bor
der, is a city of great strategic im
portance, as it Is the chief city of
Turkish Armenia and the center of a
system of roads.
Sir Edward added that he believed
the statement of an offer being made to
Belgium was also untrue.
DESTRUCTIVE STORM
SWEEPS HOLLAND
Gslee Continue With Undiminished
Violence, Causing Much Dsmsge—
Breaking of Dikes Around Westlin
der Lakes Appears Inevitable.
Amsterdam, via London, Feb. 17.—
The northwesterly storm is still blow
ing with undiminished violence and the
situation is described as critical. Re
ports from various places of damage
which has been done are causing gravo
apprehension.
'Monnikedam has suffered consider
ably. The water rose a foot yester
day afternoon in this town and in the
province of North Holland, a few miles
from Amsterdam, and is still rushing
In.
Breaking of the dikes around West
linder lakes, eight mile.? southwest of
Amsterdam, appears to be inevitable.
Destructive Storm in Franco,
P&ris, Felb. 17.—A gale swept France
yesterday and caused serious damage
in Paris and in the provinces. A num
ber of shipwrecks have been reported.
Many telegraph wires and' many trees
have been (blown down and several
persons wecg killed and injured in
Paris by falling tiles and chimneys.
iReports from .the front descriibe the
weaither for the last forty-eight hours
as the worst exiperienced since the war
er-in-chief, was sent to the Caucasus began. The gale was particularly se
to take charge of the campaign. He
received reinforcements and several
weeks ago began active operations.
This camipatgn Is designed to relieve
pressure on the British in (Mesopot
amia. and it Is assumed a Junction
with the British Is expected.
ALLIES EXTEND LINES.
Oooupy All Bridges Over Vardsr River
In Saloniki.
Paris, Feb. 17.—A Havas dispatch
from
vere in the Belgian district where
roofs were blown from houses, trees
uprooted, many persoiis injured and
a large section of territory flooded.
MORE MONEY F*R PENSIONS.
More Than 12,500,000 Annually Added
to Rolls,
'Washington, Feb. 17. Tivvc psn«!on
(bills passed the house today, proposing
ln all the addition of more than $2,600,
000 annually to .pension expenditures.
One would grant pensions to the
•widows and minor children of officers
and enlisted men who served ninety
days or more in the army, navy or ma
rine corps of the United States, either
as regulars or volunteers, during the
war with Spain or the Philippine In
surrection ^between Aiprll 21, 1898, and
July 4, 1902. Aiocording to the ihouse
pension committee the prospect is that
there iwlll be 10,000 claims under this
measure requiring $1,500,000 the flrst
year, with a slight increase each year
for some years,
The other tolll would give $20 a
month to survivors of Indian wars
from 1895 to January, 1891, who served
ninety days or more in an actual cam
paign, and .who are 92 years old or
over, and would pay $12 a month to
widows of such soldiers.
Dstailf
'•. &
n*~
Jspsnss* Stesmsr on Firs.
San Francisco, Fet.17—The steamer
Panama Maru, whiQh arrived at "Yoko
hama from San Friartclsoo two days
•go, mcpsrieAosd a flrs-at sea, accord
recsived here today.
E
Assurance Regarding Warn
ing Before Attacking
Ships Withdrawn.
ONLY POINT IN
DISPUTE SETTLED
Agreement in Lueitania Case Reached
With Exception of Insistence of
United States That Merchantmen
Must Not Be Attacked Without
Warning—Germany fo Insist That
Armed Ships Must Not Attack Sub*.
Washington, Fe(b. 17. Secretary
Lansing today accepted the Lusitania
agreement as acceptable to the Unit
ed States, insofar as it relates to that
case, but asked Count von Bernstorft,
the German ambassador, assurances
that Germany .will not carry out its
policy of sinking merchant ships with
out warning to liners, even if thoy
carry defensive armament. The ques
tion of what constitutes defensive ar
mament is to be determined later in a
way not yet agreed upon. It is sug
gested that the Unit9d .States mayj
propose that guns mounted on the!
stern of ships and capable of being
swung from 15 to 30 degrees in either
direction might come within Chat class,
••isiste on Law Observances.
Secretary Lansing is understood to
have told the ambassador that while
Germany's position is recognized as
insist that Germany conform all
practices to International law, Inas
much as the entente allies have de
clined to make any changes.
The Lusitania agreement ^111 be kept
by Mr. Lansnig and later will be pub
lished with assurances the United
States hopes to receive from Ger
many,
ers
ined. thq position of ttye JInit»
is brought a blunt answer frohi outlined to film, and wh
the secretary^ who &aid:
"The statement made in question is
entirely untrue."
of Its unusual position, can not and
armajnent are to be immune from sub-
attacked without warning, unless they
Italian shfps, as British passenger-car-
rylng liners have not been armed even
with the small guns allowed for de
fensive purposes since tho outbreak qf
the war.
May Restrict Radio Messages.
To avoid any complications in ths
proposed modification in the censor
ship on iwlreless mea.-uigps at Seville,
Secretary Daniels today a.ppolnted ft
board of naval officers, headed
Austris's Notiee Received.
The Austrian notlcc of the Intention
COMMONS DISCUSS SHIPPING.
Question of Requisitioning Msrohant
Ships Up For Considsratlon.
London, Feb, 17.—The question of
requisitioning merchant shipping Is
one of the Important matters which
come up for consideration when debate
on the address in reply to the king's
speech Is resumed in the houss of com
mons today.
The amendment is presented by
Basil Edward Peto, member of the
Devises division of Wiltshire, who ex
presses regret in the amendment that
the government "has not taken meas
ures to utilise economically the avail
able tonnage and put it under, thi# con
trol of a central export authority with
fill power to requisition and direct ths
movement of all vessels during the
war."
It Is expected that an important reply
will be elicited by this amendment from
Walter Renchnan, president of. th*
hoard ot trade, in behalf of NlhAS gov
ernment
It Is understood that it' iS the prss
snt Intention of Premier AsqUlth to
iake ths new vote of credit in the house
or commons next Hon
thkt
are
sai«j was
will not accept tha suggestion of the 9. Qne of the statements set out that"
United States, as it now stands, that'
a
wa8 to
1
German Steamship
Magnate "Warns of
Trouble After War
London, Feb. 17.— An Amster
dam dispatch to the Exchange
Telegraph Company says the man
ager of one of the greatest Ger
man shipping companies In an In
terview ln the Bremen Tageblatt
expresses a most pessimistic opin
ion concerning the effects of a pos
sible breach of relations between
Germany and the United States.
This shlpper who, the dispatch
says, is belle^H to be Alfred
Ballln, director general of the
Hamburg American Steamship
Company, Is qubted as follows:
"A 'breach of Germany's rela
tions with America would have a
most serious effect. All of
America's money and munitions
would be at the dlsposal(of the en
tente allies. We should have to
take over the feeding of the Bel
gians, and America's attitude
probably would Induce other neu
trals to attack us. All our ships
would Anally be held in American
ports. Our plight would be most
difficult. When the war is over
Germany will have to replenish
her stocks of raw material. Do not
let us entertain any illusions with
regard to England- She will con
tinue commercial warfare long
after military operations are over.
She will take away all our trade
with South Africa and Australia
and it will take years for our pas
senger service tor-reach a condition
anything like that which existed
before the wat"
PLANNED TO KIDNAP
$
41
111 vrrrnmo DOT1 nDVM'
EI PIIO Dentiet and Two
Confederates Indicted, Charged With
Consp.raoy to Steal Boys and
8ald
Ich was" sue
Ho\d
Them For Ransom. I
El Paso, Tex., Feb. 17.—Two men
were ln Jail today, and another,
well founded, the United States must jjenry, Magruder, a dentist, out on Haven between Boston and New
bond, charged in an indictment re-j York.
having conspired to kidnap the young
sons of William L. Tooley and Her-
iM-eanwhile, It was said, the United! officer or 'he Vllla
States would make efTorts to have the! "my. and Werner Flche. a refugee
entente allies agree not to put guns ot
any kind on passenger carrying lln- I W. W. Brtdgew, d^rlct attorney.
today he knew of no other men
Ambassador'von Bernsthorlf, when Involved the-allied co^piracy. |.
he returned to his embassy, sent a long altho counjy officials,were sa^to be Motion o^ DeferjM to Con.ohdate
dispatch to Berlin, setting forth fully Searching for t™ otty "U
ten believed
ruder«
»a-were
Villa Reported at Bustillos.
El Paso, Tex.. Feb.
17.—Francisco
Villa was reported at Bustillos, seven
ty-five miles west of Chihuahua City,
today. In advices received by General
Gabriel Gavlra, at Juarez. Official In
formation to Gavlra also contained a
had burned
by report that bandits had burned a
Caipt. W. G. Bullard. chief of the radio Mexican Central railroad bridge at
service, to consider whether the re
vision should permit the passige Into
the United 'States of radio message*
referring to naval vessels of the coun
tries at. war.
I,oe Mlnas.
__ Htatftd in ltit nicht'a new Feb. 8, anjLhave beenin'-pr!Son since today the opening session of his trial y0Ung, of Muscatine, was elected
toKis nl»ht...«wr
Mexican said to be now In Jail at
pian
then was
No date has been set for the ap
pearance of the men In court.
the German government. In making Its' vices to the war department today
declaration in carrying out its new |-teu *0f
ft
Mexloo to
th*
bnoti
been notified
violation of American neutrality.
KHEDIVE 18 DISSATISFIED.
IOWA CENTENARIAN DEAD.
MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1916. NUMBER 41
SAYS 8RANDEIS
WRECKED ROAD
Moorfield Storey Corrobo
rates Testimony of
C. W. Barron.
HIRED TO DESTROY
NEW ENGLAND LINE
Nominee For Supreme Bsnoh Pictured
as Capable and Energetio Man But
When Neoesssry to Advance His
Own Objects, Not Scrupulous, Nor to
Be Trusted—^Aided New Haven to
Acquire Competing Railroad.
Washington, Feb. 17. Moorfleld
Storey, of Boston, an attorney, charged
before the Judiciary sub-committee of
the senate today that Louis D. Bran Farriers' 'Meeting Beat Ever.
dels helped to wreck the New York &
New England railroad in 181)2 and 1893,
with the result that it was absorbed by,
the New Haven railroad.
Asked as to Mr. Brandeis' reputation,
as a lawyer, Mr. Storey testified:
"I think his reputation in the Bos
ton bar is that he Is a very capable.'
t0
very energetic man, and if necessary! Miscellaneous 'Matters.
advance his objects, he is not! PAGE SIX.
BANKjciK S v/HULtl/jscrupulous as to his methods, nor is he Editorial:
.. to be trusted." Women "Voters ln Illinois.
Corroborates Barron's Tetstlmony. Dr. Gordon and His'Meetings.
Alleged storey had been summoned by the Wanted—A Secretary of Sftate.
committee. Senator AValsh told the1 Topics and Iowa Opinion.
witness that C. W. Barron, of Boston.1 PAGES SEV^N, EIGHT, NINE, TEN,
wa8
t0 wreci{
"I think' that is true," said Mr.
Storey. He proceeded to describe the I
*r-' New England as a competitor of the«.
rr rs«»'to
ras the
way
England, which ran part
to New York over the New Haven
man Andreas, bankers of this city, tracks. The New Haven flrst refused Markets and_General
and hold them for-ransom of 150,000.
The two men in Jail are Jesus Vil-
to advance freight for the New End
and. It seriously Interfered with Its
trains and there were Indications that
It was the purpose of the New Haven
to destroy the New England."
LORIMER PLACED ON TRIAL.
Charge* Granted.
CMcsjror'Feb. 17 —'William Lorlmer.
(on charges of wrecking the LaSalle
Dr. Magruder and Flche ihade state-1 street TrOst and Savlajfs Bank, of
Germany Changes View. I meiits to county officials concerning which he was president.
It was stated that Germany, because details of the alleged plot, whlcH, it Is I Judge Dever, of the criminal court.
to have teen carried out Feb.! presiding, granted preliminary motions
0f
t)f
liners carrying arms shall be immune 1 Juarez, flrst broached the proposition dated with the minor charges of re-1 Pe8 ®s' "y
Berlin government expects some as-1demanding the ransom. The ransom bank, and the dismissal of indictments the cost of approximately J16,000,0001
surances that the llnars iwlll not at-
tack the Bubmsurln^s. •via k^vo tn bo inutttiiitnn unri .Tnhii H. DoVonov. ui'isn~ thousand policy holders ln Iowa, in
spot after which tho boys were to be institution, and John B. DeVoney, pres
Count von Bernstorft, the German liberated and told to walk back home.
ambassador, has an engagement to
confer with Secretary L«anslng today
and he is exipected to convey this view
ln replying to the secretary's State
ment yesterday that it is desirable that"
Plan Expedition 'Into Mexico.
Washington, Feb. 17.—Private ad-
an
alleged plan of Mexicans on
of an aiiO'Preci pmn 01 'iwrAn «mp
campaign after Feb. 29, it intended to: th^ American side of the border, par- churches would double thoir strength lines. About na.1T or the insurance is
alblde by the assurances It gave in tbfc HCUlarly In California and Texas, for and ln no way interfere with their: already on tnat basis.
Arabic case that "liners'* would "not be
conspiracy to defraud be consoll-J
from aittack under previous assurances.' *0 kidnaD the children oX th'e bartXers. ocivlng deposits when the bank was to tne gra.na loage ot tn goats Scsroo snd Resousrs Aro KspV
Germany is prpiiiare.i to Inform the, other saio^ the conspiracy was I known to be Insolvent and of contl- Ancient Order of I nited orkmen Busy on Lowsr Mississippi.
United States that if passpnge- iincr^ planned in the, doctor's office. tie nee games resulting from misrepre- session at the chamber or commerce, Orleans, La., IFelb. 17^-»1oo4
leaving American ports with defensive! According to the county officials, the sanation of the bank's ussets. voted to increase ttie rates on an
expedition to cross into northern' work, asserted Rev. Thomas Nicholson, 1
attempted to resist. Such' assuranoe.! ™ment. education of the Methodist Rplscopal A- «. IT. W. on a sound basU, the ofTl
as It is indicated Germany may now .Major General Funston. commanding I church at the Methodist conference on cers fay. and secures every policy by
ask, probalbly would apply only to1
was to take the children into the' The court granted motions of the standing insurance now uimim tne ror- I
marine attack, as Germany promised' mountains of New Mexico. A note prosecution for a separate trial for mer rate. The change wm mean an ^.ake Bruin, seven miles below
last summer in the Arabic case, the
be deposited at a designated against Charles G. Fox. cashier of the wor.h of insurance held by several
ident of the International Trust and
Savings Bank, a subsidiary.
ADVOCATES CHURCH UNITY.
Union in Work of Methodist Episcopal
Churches Is Urged.
Chicago, Feb. 17.—Unification ot
the connection of negroes
Methodist churoh.
102
Jossphus Cooper, of Winteraet,
Yssrs Old, Psstes Away.
Wlnterset, Feb. 17—Josephus Cooper,
102 years old, died here today from an
Illness resulting from a recent attack
of grip. (Mr. Cooper was a farmer.
Naval Collier Justin 8old.
San Franolsco, Feb. 17.—The United
States naval collier Justin was re
ported today in advices from Washing
ton to have been sold to N. A. Bussey.
Jr., of New York, on his bid of $801.
107. Navy appraisers fixed the value
of the vessel some time ago at $7fi,0(H).
Previous bids were rejected on
charges of Irregularity.
Consider Unification of Work.
New York, Feb. 17.—The executive
commission of the general assembly of
the Presbyterian church In the United
States Is meeting to consider means of, passenger* w#s badly wrecked,
unifying the missionary and benevolent
work of the church and to devMe
methods of obtaining money for Its
sisven mission sscr. *.
ARMY PLAN'S TAKE SHAPE.
Houss snd Sepste Committees Work
ing on Bills.
Washington, Feb. 17.—Plans for in
creasing the federal armyvand for fed
eralization of the naitlonal guards be
gan to take shape today. The house
committee 'began the task of framing
a federaliiatior* hill, while the senate
British Authorities Said to Have Ten
dered Throne to prince Yussuf.
Berlin, wireless to Sayville, Feb. 17.— I committee rfSiunad vvork on a bill to
to 'treat "anrie'd 'beVlUw»nV* m'orchaVt- Advices' from Cairo, as given out to-| increase ^regular army to between
ships without warning, was received' day by the Overseas News Agency, 160,000 and 200,000 men.
today toy the state department from! states that the khedive of Egypt has is expected the .bills will be laid
Ambassador Penfleld, in Vienna. It is become discontented and that the Brit- before, ths h°"«® and senate within
dated [Feb. 10, and Is in line with the Ish have offered the throne to Prince, three weeks, altho the naval building
German declaration on the same sub- Yussuf, who has declined. The leader plan will not too completed for some
1ect already published.
of the Senussl Is said to have informed
the British he was powerless to sup
press the rebels.
weeks.
VICTIM OF BIJZ7 RAW.
Mslvin Cope, sf Little Sioux, Killed, and
Body Frightfully Mutilated.
Special to TJmeq-Republlcan.
Little SlQUX Falls. Feb. 17.—Melvln
Cope, aged 49, while operating a buss
saw, was Hilled and his body frightfully
mutilated. Th* *w was thrown from
its setting and |tr(klng Cope on the
shoulder nearly cut his body In two.
Some years ago his wife shot herself.
Five small children are left.
TRUCK PROFS FROM BRIDGE.
Three Ton Automobile Struck by Street
Car Plunged Into River.
Omaha. Feb. 17.—A loaded three-ton
automobile traoli today was knocked
frofn a Missouri river bridge by an
Omaha and Council Bluffs street car.
falling sixty feet, to the Iowa side ot
the river. James Murray, the truck
driver, was Instantly killed.
The street car. which was ailed with
lcepresldent
~!^^4«Ml!ii»®iifflsi5:'1^"'
T.-R. BULLETIN.
NEWS OF~THE DAY
Th. W«.lh«r.
Sun rises Feb. 18 at 6:49, sets at 6 $3.
Iowa—Fair tonight and Friday:
somewhat cooler ln west portion to
night and In east portion Friday.
Fair weather has continued in All
parts of the United States except on
the extreme North Pacific coast and on
the Atlantic coast from New Jersey
northward. The temperature has re
mained moderate except over the
southeastern states, where it is below
the normal, and light frost occurred at
Tampa, Fla. Fair weather will con
tinue in this vicinity tonight and Frl
day, but it will be somewhat cooler t^
night. Tho lowest temperature to
night will be about 25 degrees.
PAGE ONE.
Telegraphic News:
Brandeis Accused of Wrecking Rail
road.
Russians Capture 100,000 'Men at Br
zeruim.
Severe Blow to Turkey.
Germany Changes Frorrt on ISea
Controversy.
Withdraws Promise to Wlarn Mer
chantmen.
Nine Dead ln Texas Opera House
Fire.
PAGES TWO, THREE AND FOUR.
Egan "Disbarred.
One Pig Is Doomed.
Novel School Idea.
Ames Couple Married Seventy Tears.
Mother Kills Self and Baibew
PAGE FIVE.
General Mews:
Rahn Urges Basic Army (Legislation.
once employed! ELEVEN.
New. England railroad, City News:
Young Laurel Man Attenvpts Sui
cide.
Lloyd Paul Shoots Himself Will
Live,
Gordon Meetings "Brought to Close.
No Inquest ln Louies ?ase.
Clyde Whitney "Dead.
General and Brief City NewB.
PAGE TWELVE.
Hessian Fly Scare (Makes W4ieat
Firm.
Advance Brings Out (Much Com.
Cattle Prices Steady.
Hogs Score Advaniee.
Roosevelt Seeks Second Choice Dele
gates.
recommended in resolutions adopted to
day by the Iowa Engineering Society.
iM.
i_.mcwjro, jpeu. i.—w, n. nail, or uenterviue, was eiocieo
former 4«'«»ide^t'to nuoceed W. H. KhnbifllJ
N. Hall, of Centervllle, was elected
A. O. U. W. VOTE RATE RAISE.
chana# W
the defense, that the major charge From $15000000.
Mean Increased Revenue
1
to be sent to the bankers ithn C. Seagraves, director ^of tho «iRCftnft^nnn NewelHon, aip®roa»hed th# town of
diana and Kentucky. The necessity of
a change In the rate was the primary
reason for the mooting, and the offi
cials feel highly elated over the out
come.
Four years ago It was decldcd that
all new business should bo written
under the new rate based on scientific
Th«
embarrass the Carranza of Now York, secretary of the board of cwry cent of Insurance h!ld ln tho
American forces on the border, has church unity. He strongly urged the 1 an adequate reserve.
ned to take steps to prevent Methodist Episcopal church and the Action will be taken upon the report
been notified to la Methodist ^Ucopal church South to tho committee appointed to lnves
unlfy their work.
the
Henry Snyder, president of WofTord struc ure In this city to house the
College, Spartansburg. S. C., outlined Krand lodge.
with tho
sttid
a
J.
action or the grand lodge puts
advlsablli of erecting a
INVESTIGATION IS FAVORED.
Grain Dealers' Association to Asoertain
Membership of Farmers in Exehsnge*.
Dr»s Moines, Feb. 17.—A thorough ln
vestliratlon of the terminal grain mar
ket situation, to ascertain the member
ship of farmers ln grain exchanges. Is
to be made by the Iowa Grain Dealers'
Association, according to an announce
ment today.
The association voted $300 to carry
out tho investigation.
M'EiREDITH FOR CABINET JOB.
lows .Demoorsts Wsnt WUson to Make
Publisher Agrioultursl Secretary.
Special to Times-Republican.
Washington, Feb. 17—(National Com
mitteeman Wilbur Marsh and Repre
sentative Ton? Steele called at the
White House today to urge the presi
dent to appoint 35. T. Meredith, of Des
Moines, secretary of agriculture If
Secretary Houston is made secretary
of war.
lows Supreme Court.
Special to Times-Republican.
Des 'Moines. Feb. 17.—Tho supreme
court today handetf down tha following
olpnlons:
Kdmunds, appellant, vs. Griffin,
sheriff Polk county. Affirmed. Opin
ion by "Deemer.
Mitchell vs. Beck, appellant Lee
county. Affirmed. Opinion by Salln
geT.
In re estate of Workman, deceased:
Green county. Reversed. Opinion by
Gaynor.
Edgerly vs. City of Qttumwa:
Wapello oounty. Affirmed,* Opinion
by Ladd.
The Mertens Construction Company
yjn, Brown, appellant Woodbury
county. Affirmed. Opinion by Evans,
Recommend Llosr*»e For Engineers. chief Justice.
Des.MolqM. Iteb- H—A law requlr- GHbson et al.. vs. City of »es. Moines,
ing a stftU
lic«n*a tor
engineers -was appellant Polk county. Affirmed.
Weather for Iowa:
Continued Fair
Slightly Cooler^
NINE DEAD III
TEXAS FIRE
Opera
Build'
and Other*
a, atertainment
•Is Men Killed In Adjoining CM*-*
Sohool Superintendent awl Tswhtf
Among Victims—Pol(o* OfNoUlo
liovs Explosion Caused Disaster and
Two doors from ti*» opwa StSMs stg
men were killed in a cafe wb«u tha
hall collapsed and a gas "T^iltji. fftl
lowed by Are, occurred.
A number of boil
dines wsra ds«
stroyed by fix* with a loss ssOmatsd at
175,000.
Plans were made today
BATTLING AGAINST FLOODS.
wat«rs
^£.1
EXPLOSION
FOLLOWS BLAZE
Investigation la Under Way Bwirrf
Buildings Burned in Mr*
alexia, Vn, Feb, Xt—(The noalM*
of persons killed as the result
ot
tho
collapse of the opera house hers last
night, and the resulting flr% remained
at nine this morning1. A. B, WUesnert
superintendent of tike city school
Htm,
Wleaner and Prof. A. O. Bruton wore
killed when the hulldintr ooQapsed. At
number of others In tho bvUdliv at
the time received injuries.
tar
an oflW
cial investigation. Patrick Rochard^
chief of poUoe, said he believed the col
lapse of the house was due to an sac*
plosion.
All persons who had been la ths
opera house lutve been accounted lMV
TRiAOIMG POISON "CHEF." *4
Chicago Polioe Believe Crsnss Is Hid**
ing In New York or Boston.
Chicago^ Feb. 17.—Captain Nicholas'
Hunt announced today his conclusion
that Jean Crones, the assistant chef,
wanted for putting poison in soup
served at the banquet to Archbishop
Mundelein last Thursday here, is hid
ing ln New Tork or Boston.
According to Captain Hunt there Is
a large colony of anarchists In Bos
ton.
Presence of a second poison
tloned in the Crones letter as tel
ijbssn jrat tn the soup serred
'banquet, was 'discovered"^tedajr..
by the olty chemists. The polm iMt
of a metallic nature, which Would
tend to counteract tho effect of an
other poison mlncled with it, chemists
from the crevasse in the Ml-
ajB8j,pp1 rjver at
Buclcrid*» today after
St.
Joseph.
Hundreds of recruits have Joined ths
parties rescuing marooned' persocist
Boats are scarce.
Barly mprnlng reports OsA(
tho 600 workers at New Roads "were
holding their own against tho rival's
attack on the levee there.
So far three unidentified negroes are
the only victims of the high water.
MANY INJURED IN WRECK.
Fourteen Seriously Hurt When Foui*
Coaches Leave Track.
Richmond, Va, Feb. 17.—The Sea
board Air Line's Florida Limited, No.
10, northbound, was wrecked today at
Klngslnnd bridge, ten miles south of
hero, while running at high speed. No
one was killed. Fourteen persons were
badly Injured, and others less seriously
hurt.
The engine tender Jumped the track,
ripping up the rails and tics and four
coaches went down a stoep embank
ment. The injured were brought to
Richmond hospitals.
MUST PROVIDE ARMORY.
Suitable Quarters Must Be Procured,
or Musoatine Will Lose Battery.
Des Moines, Fob. 17v—Adjt Gen. Guy
E. Logan announced today that busi
ness men of Muscatine may erect a
new armory to house Battery O. Iowa
National Guard, in order to save that
organization from being mustered out.
There to no room lti the new $50,000
armory at Muscatlno to care for the
battery, the second Held battery to bo
formed In the state. The lower floor is
leased to an automobile company
which refuses to leave.
Unless suitable quarters aro found
for the battery soon General —-"?*n an
nounced that It may be mustered out.
SENATOR ALLEN RESIGNS.
Loaves Upper House to Become Csndi
date For Governor.
Des Moines, Feb. 17.—Joseph H. Al
len, of Pocahontas, today resigned as
state senator ln order that hn may be
a candidate for the republican nomina
tion for governor. Tho resignation was
handed to Governor Clarke.
i£dward Cunningham, of Buona Vista
county, speaker of the lower house in
tho Thirty-Fifth general assembly, an
nounced today that he will Ve a candhj^l
date for state senator from his district* v*
8enste Receives Msxiosn Data.
Wushington, Feb. 17.—All the State vy,
department data on the Mexican sitv
atlon, called for by Senator Fall's ies-:n?'
olutlon, was sent to the senate late to*vW?
day by President WUson. Much of It,3,
the senate will be asked to keep lh
confidence because of Its relation to
the iuternaUanal affairs of the United
States.
•i.
AU
