Oregon Historic.! ,
" Wfnnd fl
"Ashland Grows While Llthla Flows''
X City of Sunshine and flowers 1
T
DINGS
Ashland, Oregon, Llthla Springs
! "Oregon's Famous Spa'
v i
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1916
NUMB1.T. 77
Misrepresents
Commission Action
Next Four Days
At the Vining
Would Buy Wede
And Build i'lne
As usual, the Record misstates
facts in relation to the springs water
commission. It says: "The springs
water commission voted Monday to
accept the work of Smith, Emery. &
Co. after a ten days' tryout." The
springs water commission did noth
ing of the kind. What it did do was
to agree with Smith, Emery & Co.
that a ten days' test run should be
made, during which the plant would
be inspected to see whether it filled
the contract. There Is no obligation
on the part of the commission to
"accept" the plant after the run un
less it comes absolutely up to (he
contract. Today two experts from
Portland, who were recommended by
State Engineer Lewis, arrived and
will thoroughly Inspect the plant in
operation. The springs water com
mission will be guided largely In its
future acceptance or rejection of the
plant by the reports from these experts.
Stevenson And
Duryea Resign
, Publicity Manager Duryea has
handed in his resignation to the
springs commission, to take effect on
March 1. Mr. Duryea states he has
no statement to make at present re
garding reasons for his resignation.
The resignation of Chester Steven
son from the springs commission was
accepted Tuesday evening by the
council without any great amount of
discussion, It being the concensus of
opinion that whether they wished him
to remain on the commission or not,
his desire to resign made acceptance'
of the resignation their only possible
course. Several of the councilmen
spoke briefly regretting the neceesi
' ty of accepting bis resignation but
accepting it as Inevitable
Mr. Stevenson's resignation as read
to the council was as follows: -"To
the Mayor and Members of the
City Council of yie City of Ashland,
Ore.
"Gentlemen: I beg to hand" yeu
herewith my resignation as a member
of the springs water commission of
the city of Ashland.
"I regret the necessity for this ac-.
tion on my part, but because of my
inability to agree with my associate
members on the commission in re
gard to matters that I consider vital
to the welfare of this community and
the success of the project that we
have undertaken In connection with
the springs development, It Is Impos
sible for me to continue any longer
mv connection with the commission.
"I desire to have this resignation
take effect Immediately, therefore I
will appreciate prompt action on your
part In its acceptance.
"Respectfully submitted,
"CHESTER STEVENSON,
"Commissioner."
On Friday night at the Vining
Theatre Marie Doro Is starred in the
Paramount feature, "The White
Pearl." The story is laid in a Japan
ese setting and Marie Doro assumes
the life and mannerisms of a Japan
ese geisha girl. .
The love Interest of the story de
velops from the ties between a young
American of rich parents, who falls
In love with Nancy, daughter of a
skipper. In order to dissipate his
affection for the poor girl his father,
sends him to manage the Japanese
office of his establishment In Yoko
hama. At the same time, the skipper
takes his daughter on his voyage to
the Orient. How these divided souls
are reunited under overpoweringly
dramatic and mysterious conditions
is picturesquely and logically set
forth in the photoplay.
An admirable cast, quaint and
beautiful settings, the intensely Irf
teresting romance, and, above all, the
magnificent and Indescribably tender
portrayal of Marie Doro, will cause
this five-part feature to be termed
one of the greatest yet produced by
the Famous Players Film Company.
Saturday,
On Saturday, both matinee and
evening, George Beban, who made a
hit as the Italian in "The Allen,",
which was shown here some time ago '
but which by its exceptional strength
is still fresh in the memories of pic-1
ture fans, will appear in a feature, '
"The Italian," which gives him still
greater opportunity to exhibit his
wonderful emotional powers. A good
clean comedy, "The Home Cure," will
be an added attraction Saturday.
. Sunday and Monday.
On Sunday evening the Vining
seven-piece orcheetra will ' present
some new and late orchestral concert
music In the regular concert which Is
rendered ' between 7: 15 and 7:45.'
Following the concert the "Chalice
of Courage," a great Blue Ribbon Vit
agraph feature In six parts, will be
shown with especially selected music.
The play is a virile stirring story of
the west and is said to rank better
than ''The '"Juggernaut" and "The
Shooting of Dan McGrew." A mati
ness will be given Sunday afternoon
and the same picture will be shown
Monday evening.
I rz.m . ?- - , -
1 - I
if ' ' -' 1
; H.-K' . - S 1
K n i, .
C. J. Foster has put up a propo:;!-'
tion to buy the triangular uhapu.l
piece of property which enters as a
wedge at the intersection of Iowa
street and the Boulevard, oii'ui;n:
$1500 for the property. Then: irf
$1900 In paving assessments due on
at one time used as a voting place.
Mr. Foster wants to buy t'uo prop
erty on installments, paying $100
down. Mr. Banta suggested a p':iu
to properly protect the city's in-
Marle Doro in "The White Pearl," at the. Vining, Friday, Feb. 18.
Business Men Have
Profitable Meet
Portlanders Will
Play Here Tonight
Franklin high school basketball
team of Portland will furnish the
first opportunity that Ashland has
had to see what an Ashland team can
do against the much-vaunted Port
landers at the high school gymnasium
tonight and Saturday night. Last
night the Medford team managed to
garner a 13 to 3 victory from the
Portlanders, who showed the effects
of the long railroad trip across the
state and displayed occasional daz
zling bursts of speed which promise
a lively time when they are rested
up and accustomed to the altitude, as
they will be tonight. The Portland
ers played in hard luck last night
with their basket shooting, missing
easy ones by a hairbreadth time after
time, while Williamson of the Med
fordites converted some miraculous
shots which made even he himself
blush. The preliminaries tonight be
tween the fast Phoenix team, which
has not lost a game this year, and
the Ashland second team promise to
run the main event a close second for
interest.
Malone Invites
Visitors To Armory
Captain C. A
company Coast Artillery Corps ap
peared before the city council Tues
day night to make an appeal through
them to the citizens of Ashland for
The Ashland Business Men's as
sociation held their regular monthly
meeting at the Commercia' club
rooms Monday night. A very good
turnout of members was present and
profited by a harmonious and pro
ductive meeting.
President Shinn called the meeting
to order and after several minor
business matters had been disposed
of, presented M. J. Duryea who
talked upon the relation of the mer
chants to the farmers and the ad-
Council Meet Is
: Short and Sweet
Fb'Iowing
minutes Mr.
the reading of
Mslone and Mr.
the
Eu-
banks appeared before the council in ( O. C varsity appearance next week
regard to matters which are discussed ( and Trnally the Medford-Ashland
elsewhere. .... j.gameg whcn conC,e the seagon
The hotel owners asked permission ' Medford is much elated over Ash
to tap the water main in front of , land's defeat and. see rosy visions
the Hotel Oregon with a two-inch of "Victory when the old rivals meet,
pipe to be conducted into the hotel . The loca' are chnstened by their de
ter tts protection purposes. This '. fea and are pitching into practice
was granted and a matter regarding wl,n 8 vim which augurs ill for their
water rates for the hotel was referred . nexi opponents,
to the water committee.
Miles Pinion stated that he had
Roseburg Dims
Championship Hopes
The. local high school basketball
team lost tile second game and their
chances at the state championship to
Roseburg Monday night on the Rose
burg armory floor, by a score of 28
to 13.
The boys returned home Tuesday.
iney nave nothing but the highest j the property and in the ofi'hau
words of praise for the treatment opinion of several of the coiiiii:i.-:i:r;.i
received .at Roseburg and on the j the city would be getting out, easy
other hand the Roseburg papers refer i to get $1500 out of the p'ueo. A
to the Ashlanders with the following: shack stands on the place which v. us
The Ashland boys played a clean,
fast game and were good losers,
from the very first whistle they bat
tled hard for their school but were
outclassed and outgeneraled by their
heavier opponents. Ashland has a:terests, which he hud discussed with
right to the boasts she has made of
her team, as no cleaner or more
sportsmanlike players have ever
Vtsltod the city."
Upon arriving In the Umpqua val
ley town the boys were met with a
baud and escorted by a parade of
rooters to the best hotel In the city.
Throughout their stay they were im
pressed with the cordiality and hos
pitality advanced by everyone whom
they met.
The second game was won by Rose
burg by more accurate basket shoot
ing and closer teamwork. The big
floor seemed to have the Ashlanders
at loss and team play was lacking.
Shots from the center of the floor
were resorted to by the Ashlanders,
but the success which attended their
shooting at home was lacking on the
strange floor. The redheaded Rbse-
J burg guard whose work made such a
hit upon the visit of the Roseburg
team to Ashlandi was a tower of
strength for the winners. Jewett and
Ackley did most of their scoring.
Grisez, Fraley and Harris divided
scoring honors for Ashland.
All Interest Is now centered upon
the Portland games this week, the A
t lie city attorney.
The matter was referred tn tho
realty committee which was appoint
ed by the mayor and consist:! of tin)
following councilmen; Lamb, liimtii,
and Cornelius. This cominliipo a n 1
the city attorney, mayor and re
corder, were given authority to con
summate a satisfactory deal.
Recorder Gillette stated that
understood Mr. Foster Intended
build a store on the property.
ho
to
Tries To Stage
Wild West S'iOT
vantages to be gained for both by the
development of better acquaintance '
In hnth O onilal an tiii.lnonn arm, l . .. i , I
" v..o, a,,u "uoiiiras ntt.r. oi .Mountuin view cemerery aunng
H. O. Frohbach outlined the work the past summer and asked that the
which the Fourth of July celebration council pay him $20 per month dur
committee was doing and asked the jng the summer for the same services.
I ffnannlnl anrl ntrwn .iinnA.1 n . I. ... . . ....
Malone of the first. ""!. ui me nis request was reierrea to tne ceme-
uuoiiiesu nieu u: Asumnu. i ne gain- - tery committee
ering endorsed the committee in; A number of residents of the Iowa'
much the same manner as did the atrPB. ,.,,. no,,,,nni,A tw ,,,.
Commercial club and promised to do ; ,,.,, ha , ,in ,hano Thn of the roundhouse was given his dis-
their co-operation and moral support 'c - .m ,)etiticn wag reforred t0 the Btreet ;rr;," "V " " 1 8
mo jjivjcu. jx jji uiiuBiiiuu ior secur- cnjnrnitteB r"" "cio iM. oriD. Junius rergiison,
Ing financial aid from the city at 1 Tho roi,i ri,.,. o.o l,eorBe Culy, George McNah, Sam
large which was endorsed by the' nn ,vw . . Oslln and Raninoy. . The day and
Shake-Up At
S. P. Roundhouse
A shake-up in the Southern Pacific
roundhouse force, which threw six
men out of work, occurred last Mon
day night. Five men from the night
shift were laid off and Foreman Cane
Medford has renewed the agitation
against the habit of locomotive en
gineers of indulging in exceeslve
whistling while in the Medford city
limits. Past agitation resulted in
loud promises and louder whistling.
The city threatens to get out an In
junction against whistling In Med
ford environs.
toward the first company. Mr. Ma
lone stated that Ashland had put sev
eral thousand dollars Into the armory
building and then left the company to
take care of themselves, with the re
sult that the company was at one
time within a dangerously disorgan
ized condition and at the point of be
ing mustered out.
At present the company is on a
sound financial basis, and while they
have no trouble in spending the $600
a year which they get from the state,
it is not financial support but the In
terest and moral support of the city
which they ask. Under the captaincy
of Mr. Malone the company has weed
ed out the undesirables and raised its
standard until It Is now made up of
the best young men of the city. Mr.
Malone asked specifically that the
citizens and business men occasional
ly visit the armory on drill nights
from 8 to 9:30, and assured them
that the company would welcome
Commercial club, met with the en
dorsement of the Business Men's as
sociation. W. Y. Crowson spoke on-an indi
vidual co-operation and competition
giving a very Interesting discussion
of an Interesting subject.
Ex-President L. S. Brown told of
the origin of the c'.ub and the results
gained during the year of Its ex
istence, stating that a better and
more economical administration of
business throughout the city both
from the standpoint of the merchant
and the customer has been effected
by the association.
night forces are now rearranged so
that several less men are used. Mr
committee.
The resignation of Chester Steven
son from the springs commission was
accepted by the council.
- Thn altfWrio llirht pninnilHna ra-
.1, . , . i.i I Anguinn former. y bnckshop foreman
ported the successful synchronization '. ,. ' , . !"
,k oi . i i, u . the Dun8niuir shops, Is now day
of the electric light systems as a re-' j r
suit of the installation of the copper i
wire from the plant to the city sub-1 The mcn were discharged by Mas
station. I ter Mechanic Small of the Shasta dl
By reconsideration of previous ac-jvislon' toward w,lom' however, thore
tion the dates for navment of electric ls "ttle bltter feG,l"B 08 11 fs believed
light bills was put back on the old that he was ftct,nS "ln orders from
basis which provides for payment "higher up." Conflicting stories are
from the 1st to 10th of the month told of the 08,180 for the shake-up,
after which they become. delinquent. I the most generally circulated being
At the previous meeting it was de-.tnat the niht shift men were caught
cided to change this to the 15th but.layinS around when their work was
invPHtitrnHnn 1,0 r.,.nvsn ,Mo oo on. ; done instead of hunting more work
President Shinn then outlined the ;comm0(latlon t the few rather tk to do. Several of the men are old
the majority and also placed addi- employes of the company, Jlmmie
tional and needless work upon the.FergU80n having worked twenty
co'lecting department. I ),ears for the s- p- A" of them had
Several other minor matters were K00d reputations as far as can be
taken care of with dispatch and the learned- and railroaders predict that
hopes which he held for the future
work of the..club and made an im- j
pression which gave every member a I
determination to help make his hopes
come true during this year.
Among other projects which Mr.
them and gave them an interesting shjnn olltlined and which
time. Drills occur every Monday
night.
Several of the councilmen re
marked that they had not known that
visitors were Invifed, pled guilty to
not taking as much interest as they
should in the company, and promised
to visit the armory on coming drill
nights.
To the company boys especially and
to the citizens of Ashland on the
whole, who have come to recognize
Mr. Malone as a valuable citizen and
a live booster, the news that he will
remain In Ashland and can reassume
the captaincy of the Coast Artillery
company comes as very good news
Indeed. When the California-Oregon
company turned over their distribu
tion system to the city, Mr. Malone
expected to be transferred elsewhere,
but the company has decided to estab
lish offices here, over which Mr. Ma
lone will preside.
were ex
tensively discussed and will probably
be carried out by the club were a
Valley Business Men's picnic in Ash
land park and a monthly bargain day.
He suggested that a day be set aside
this summer when all of Ashland's
stores be closed and all of the val
ley stores if possible and all of the
council adjourned at 8:55 o'clock.
Wild Steer Feeds
Only at Night
most of thorn will be put back on
before two months have passed. Sev
eral of the discharged men have f anil
ities, and the circumstances make the
shake-up most distressing.
The reasons for Roundhouse Fore
man Cane's dismissal are even more
obscured than the others. Mr. Cane
has but recently finished fitting up a
The peaceful quietness of Ashland
was broken last eventug when a
man dressed In the true western
style, hlgh-hee!ed boots cowboy hat
and corduroy clothes, and a dos'ro to
stage one of the old stunts of tho
days of '49, or put on a wild west
scene, appeared in one of the local
pool halls. The show began, attract
ing the attention of Patrolman
Wimer, who, having a desire to pre
serve the peace and quietness of tha
town and save all round-up stunts
for the big Fourth of July celebra'
tion, promptly called the show off
and landed the main performer in
the city bastlle, and After unloading
him of his merrymaker, alcohol, left
Sam to sleep on the hanging beds fur
nished free by the city to all occu
pants, and await the coming of morn
ing, when the program was chancred
from a wild west show to a court
room scene, with the new city liquor
ordinance the main story.
Last night while supposedly peace
fully reposing In the bastlle, the
would-be wild westerner busted tho
electric stove all to pieces and de
molished everything he could. Prose
cuting Attorney Kelly was up this
afternoon and gave the over exuher
ane gentleman a ten-day sen'onc".
The drunk was attained on pure p'co
hol. Part of the contents of a qunrt.
bottle was confiscated by the po'leo,
and the man who gave the alco'ml to
the victim fined $5 and costs.
WU1 Stop Betting
At School Games
George Eubanks of the Ashland
school board appeared bofore the city'
council Tuesday night and asked that,
some kind of police aid be furnished
the school authorities in putt in n a
stop to betting, which he stated had
become prevalent at the. high school
gymnasium preceding and during bas
ketball games. The betting referred
to was not Indulged in by school boys,
but by the young men of Ashland and
Medford. Mr. Eubanks asked that a
couple of plain clothes men ho sent
out to the basketball games. It is
believed that announcement of the
intention of the authorities to put a
stop to the betting will effectively ac
complish that end.
Inspired by the story of Fred Swin
.0o ...... wouib uroncno, .Midge JJUnn hfinlltf, llnnln wM,.h ho nnrfhnoPil
business men join In a great picnic; has entered the lists with a Mexican n Aghlaml, Hls wlfe fInds the cl11.
and get-together meeting in Ashland steer which-he proclaims to be ttae'ate here particularly beneficial to her
park. The bargain day idea may .wildest creature he has ever seen or DnJ ,,,. mo. In tPOnr
heard of. The judge states that the'to better payIng jobg eiBewhere have
steer is so wild that it only comes 'been reCentIy turned down by him,
down out of the hills at night to feed, acc0rdlng to report. It will be re-
also become a reality, the idea being
to have a monthly dollar bargain
day on which every merchant would
offer a real bargain at that price,
thus drawing trade from all over the
county.
Monte Briggs, who has been act
ing as recording secretary, resigned.
D. D. Norris was elected managing
secretary at a salary of $20 a month.
The college papers urgently
the students to cut out slang.
ask
going back before daylight and never
allowing a man to get within a half
mile of It. He says he would like to
see It ridden or bulldogged ajjd will
try to round it up for the wild west
features of the dedication celebration
which will take place this coming
July.
Phone Job orders to the Tidings.
membered that F. O. Allard, the fore
man preceding Cane, was discharged
on a trumped up charge of stealing
a sack of onions from a freight car
when he had decided not to accept a
master mechanic position at Mlnah,
Nev., which pays more than the Ash
land foremanshlp. After he was dis
charged he. was again offered the
Minah position and Is now holding It.
Jackson County ItexiNtrution
Following Is a complete list of
registration, showing the number
registered in the various parties for
the week ending Fob. 12, 1916:
Republican Male 454 femntrt
174. Total 628. '
" Democrat Male 268, female 100.
Total 368.
Progressive Male 7, female 1.
Total 8.
Prohibition Male 15,. femnlo IB.
Total 31.
Socialist Male 19, female B. To
tal 24.
Miscellaneous Male 48, female
41. Total 89.
Total registration 1148.
Some men who have been disap
pointed In love are Wky an
never know it.
t
