Men fjw
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1P1G.
-OflVO - .
NUMBER 34.
LEVEN GERMAN
STEAMERS BEAD!
FOR SEA RAIDING
'V
menenn i unmin rsnvs 1 1 is;
. A r
Schooner Delivered 2,100 Tons
of Coal (o Interned Vessels in
TcnerilTc.
TOPPED Bl ENGLISH M5HIP
n j nwen in I'rnrnpn .tiicr
1 fell I 1 T 1 .. Pi
Papers Arc Examined In
crned Roats Arc Said to Keep
Full Crews and Arc Ready to
Sail at Moment's Notice.
Mobile, Ala.. Ib. 1(1. Hlcven Ber
lin steamers laid up In Canary island
nits Imvo been sccietlv armed for
onuncrco raiding :im1 hip preparing
'i make n dash foi the upon sea, no
nrrllng' to a statement made here to-
1.... I... ' I.. I. I. I . . I , . n ..r III A
I'? . I I I I . I.. .MM 1, 1V '"i Lll'l
niorlcnn schooner F.dgar V. Murdoek.
tho su.vs lie delivered Inn tons of coal
0 (ierinan agent" In Tenerirfo and kiv
1 loaded into the hunkers of the in
eineil (.ei man vessels. The Murdoch
" i i port here
Captain Magui.o refused to give the
lame or the agents who chartered hlK
f homier to transport the cargo of coal
"oni Norfolk The coal was consigned.
le said, to a Spaniard employed by a
Icman coal companv in Santa Cruz.
cncrlfc. It was transferred to llght
i's and immediately tal.cn alongside
he C.erman ships and loaded into
linker:.
The Mlli'dod- left Norfolk on October 23
ith Mini tons or -oal on which the freight
.is prepaid Near the northwest coast
f Aflica he was ovcrliniiled by a British
1 a 1 of war whh h sea relied the ship and
o wed her lo pioeeod. The same after-
mull. Irilllillll eulgillio Null, mc I'l luser
r' irned anil icii'iiied him lo lay lo while
tic ships t apers weie taken aboard this
iiilser and examined. fVvoial hours later
n ulllcer from the cruiser ictnnied Willi
he ship's papers and told Captain Maguno
lint he "oiild continue Ids voyage.
' had the freight prepaid and left Nor-
nk u iciiooic" io oenver me coal lo ine
hi o whor i1 was consigned. M'hat he
an Coal company at Teneriffo t did not
mow until 1 reached my destination.
No time was lost in unloading mv
ar;o on barer- which wire senl stiaight
'he sides of the Gcininu vessels Tin
rst ship in sight ;is the Cap Ortega,
bttr passenger liner of some live thou
and tons. She looked like she had .lust
n'ne out of a shin y.ud, presenting a
I' I i-h.ipe aimearanee. and I was told
b hip-iing nun that all the Herman
slo.irnshlns in Teneriffe kent full crows
n loard and apnea red to he ready to sail
ii moment their master;, desired "
8,200,000.000 FOUNDS
.priimny s t.rtivx war l Ancnillliire In
I .-00,0110 ,00(1 Pounds.
London, Fob. K- Tlic cliancellor of the
exchequer, Reginald Mclsenna, announced
to-day that tho Uritish national debt at
the end of tho Ilnanclal vo.ir .March 31,
ttlll lie C.atXl.oOl.toi pounds.
Germany's gross war expenditure to the
end of 1015 was more than ,.Vm,0")i
pounds.
t redits voted by France between the
lot r'nwik of tlie war lo the end of De
cember, inVi, w ere alxnit l,Molnnfi,(inf iiounds
find for the hist cpinrter of 10'li 'iOi.'iVio.io
J'oiindp
CEN. VT. TO RESUME
OPERATIONS TO-DAY
Ptrlklnc Frclchl llnmllrrx at AVrv
London will lip Iteplnccil liy
MrlkphrcnkcrN.
New Ixindor Conn , Feb. K After
frclng Men' un for four days on account
ft a strikn of freight handlers here, the
Central Vermont railroad announced
that it -would attempt to resume nitra
tions to-morrow,
Fifty strike breakers weie brought here
to-ntght by tram . Twenty-five police
Men were at tlie station when Hie train
n n I ved to prevent a possible repetition
of t lid disonler of yesterday. The rail
road company has hired it number of
fuivate detectives to guard its property.
v. conference was held to-dav. but the
cirrirlals declined to grant tho demand of
tho strikers for a wage iii'Trase.
ANTI-ROOSEVELT
REPUBLICANS ORGANIZE
Ilicoriiornted under 1 1 1 1 nol n I, mm
Will Try (o .Slop llip Colonel.
Springfield, 111, Feb. lfi, -The antl-
3!ooseelt ltopubllcan League received
incorporation papers to-day at the, office
of the secretary of slate. According to
1 e papers, which wi in Hied by David
iDavh, former mayor of Litchfield, l
"U K New some, a member of the Mont
onierv lepubllcaii committee, and A. V.
1'iice, a negro, tho purpose of tho league
is to oppose tho nomination of Theodore
Kooscvclt by "lawful men us, of, if
necessary, by stooping to adopt tho
methods and practices heietoforo used
bv Theodore Itoosevelt and his follow
I CIS."
UK SLIPPKD-THAT WAS AIVTc.
cliarlestown. W Va., 1'ch. 1fi. W. H.
ItokertH of Marietta, Ohio, slipped and
fc'i while currying two cans of nltro
flveilii at 8t Albans, 1'-' miles from
liMre, to-day. and vvns literally blown
to pieces ny the explosion. Tho detona
tion wan heard In Chailoslon, No nno
cho waa Injured.
FINAL NEGOTIATIONS
IN LU SIT AN I A CASE
BLOCKED BY TEUTONS
Von Bernstorff Presents Secretary Lansing with
Germany's Agreement in a Form Acceptable
to the United States, but the Central Powers'
Sea Order to Sink
Ships without Warning Re-Opens the Whole
Submarine Argument.
Washington. Feb. 1 it The sllhma-
line , outtoveisy with Germany cannot,
i.r clnrd until tlie Fluted States has,
fully considered the possible effect of)
tlie dei hired Intention of the Germanic,
powcts to sink all aimed merchant i
dups of their enemies without warn-1
mg after February J!i. 1
Tliis .'innotincetneiit was made by'
Secretary Lansing lo-dii) Instead or
the long expected announcement of a t
satisfactory settlement of the l.usltania
negotiations. 1
Perfected by mouth of patient and r
at times perilous negotiation, the
l.usltania agreement was presented
to-day by Count von Hernstorrf, the
German ambassador, In a form which
would have been acceptable to the
United States had not tlie Girinanlc
powers announced their determination
to roga.d armed merchant ships of
their enemies as warships.
The Lusllatiln ngt cement now will nol
be. accepted as finally satisfactory to the
Fnited States until President Wilson and
Secretary Lansing have decided whether
any of Its terms would be nullified by the
principles of the new submarine, cam
paign. It is practically certain that the Fnited
States will ask to lie specifically informed
that tlie assuiances previously given for
the safety of neutrals and nou-combai-ants
at sea have not been and will not be
altered liv tlie latest declarations of tins
ISerlln ami Vienna admiralties.
American otllcials fear that the Fnited
States and Germany may llnd themselves
at the same point they stood in tho first
days of the submaiiiie crisis, with the.
Fnited States contending unreservedly
for the principles of law and humanity In
naval wailaie, and lonltnnted with a long
scries of diplomatic exchanges, the result
of which they cannot foresee.
Count Von liernstorff told Secretary
Lansing to-day it was his peisonal opin
ion that in tlie new submarine campaign
his government Intended to abide by its
promise not to sink nuteslsting "liners"
without warning, given in tho Arabic case
and referred to In tho Lusitania agree
ment. Mr. linslng Informed the ambas
sador that such a declaration from his
government would be highly desirable.
The ambassador sUKgestod the possi
bility of postponing the effective date of
tlie new sulimaiine campaign If il would
give timo for negotiations to clarify the
confused situation hut the secietary did
not commit himself.
Tliis la the situation now;
As i result of the correspondence in
tlie LiHtnnia and Arabic eases the
Fnited States had rested secure III the
belief that the future conduct of sub
marine warfare on humane lines and In
accordance with the established principles
of international law, modified soniew'hat
by the new conditions developed during
the war, had been assured The state
department had been pi acceding lately
on the theory that all that was neces
sary to be done in the Lusitania case
was to cover tlie pat: not the rutin c.
Now the Austro-Genn.in notice of in
tcntion to sink armed merchantmen ap
parently is regarded as having destroyed
SUPREME COURT HEARS
WARNER MURDER CASE
Several Oilier l uxes llenril lit Special
SpsnIoii In llrntlleboro,
llrattleboro, Feb. 11. Tlie special term
of supremo eouit. being held lieie. took
ip to-dav tlie c.xcepiions in the iiise of
leorge Warner of Simonsvllle, who has
been convicted of murder in the Hist de
gree in tlie killing of Mr. and Mrs. Henry
F. Wiggins, parents of Warner's wife,
Attorney F. G. Uleknell of White Hiver
Inaction, counsel for tho respondent, ar
gued the exceptions, which were based on
the ground that the State did not confine
Itself in attempting to disprove the insan-
ty plea of the respondent to the period of
two years covered specifically by the de
fense In presenting evidence to piovo In
sanity. State's Attorney Colo and Attor
ney-General II. G, llarber argued for the
Stat".
Tlie prisoner was brought to lirattle.
boro from Windsor in charge of Sheriff .1.
II. Klnhy.
Attorney ftobort C. fSacoti at tho opening
of couit this morning concluded his argu
ment for the defendant in tho chancery
case of tho Cutler company against At-
torncv-General Herbert G. riarher. a suit!
over a strip of land which Is claimed bv
both parties. The master's decreo found
for Sir. llarber. AV. It. Dalev and A. F
SebWeriL' iirf'iie.l fr.p r..ii.. .......n.,.. I
Tho case of Wilson
UrotbeiH' garage
.iKiiiiii-i i mi k j. .arrow, aooe .nil. war
also stalled to-day. Tlie plaintiff In this
suit had been awarded a veidict for dam
ages of $:ri.nl.
Yesterday afternoon was taken up most
of tlie time by the arguments in the suit
for nialpnictlco of Hester A. Davis of Wil
mington against Dr. S. l'nrrar Dunn of
that town. In this suit tile defendant was
given judgment to lerover his costs. The
suit arose over tho lieatnien' given ap
iiijuii-.i mini in mo piaintitr which was
first treated by tho defendant and later
by other physlcianB who claimed there
was a fracture of one or tho bones. Tho
questions argued weie principally over tho
ruling of tho lower camrt on the nilmls
sablllty of exhibits and evidence.
TOM LONGBOAT UN LISTS.
Rrantfnrd, Out,, Feb. lfl.-Tom Long
ooat. the famous Indian i minor, came
to Rruntfonl to-day and enlisted with
tho scout soctlon of the U'.'itli battalion.
Ilo returned to his home nt Caledonia
ami will teport for duly in a few days.
Longboat said ho rcall.ed tho timo had
come for man led men to enlist as well
as single nun,
Armed Enemy Merchant
that assurance, and II Is deemed uscles
to try to adjust a past Issue while the
rutin e is left open with tile almost cer
tain nsutnuce of new Incidents ailslng
that iney may lead to the most setlous
I esult-.
Officials fear thai a closer study of tlie
Lusitania agreement may disclose that
It Is not sufficiently comprehensive to
embodv the guarantees rrctilrcd lor the
future Tliey aie quite certain that It
cannot ipiallfy, amend or replace the
Atistro-Gcrmati notice; a specific assur
ance nil that point would have to be given
by Germany and later perhaps by
A list i la.
The internal political situation in
Germany Is regaidcd hero as making
tlie situation graie, lieeiuse the von
Tirpitz element is understood to be re
asserting itself with considerable ef
feiH and the. subject requires delicate
handling because an upset of the von
I i iiimann-llollweg administration
would be icgarded as unfavorable In
its effect.
What form the next step in the ne
gotiations will In: is not disclosed, but
there are strong indications that the
German government will be asked to
assure the Fnited States that mer
chant ships armed for defensive, pur
poses only will be exempt from un
warranted attack.
From German sources to-night came
tlie statmeiit that it was unite prob
able Herlln would give such assur
ances, but that in doing so It would re
quest information as to what tho Ful
led States considers defensive arma
ment. K.xtoinloil negotiations may fol
low on that point.
Slate department officials said they
conhicieieii tin. situation where II was
seveial weeks ago, when it was described
as giave. Diplomat!" correspondence
nni loiuuuie wiin Austria as well as
with Germany. Austria has given assm
allocs In the Ancona case, which this
government lias no intention of rclln
qulshing.
I lie l nlted states will, of course, con
tinue Its clforts to Induce tho entente
allies lo disarm their merchantmen and
In the event of their refusing tlie state
department probably will further limit
the character of armament which it con
slders defensive. In that event arma
ment above the ret limit would cause
ships having It aboard to he considered
warships and treated accordingly In
American poits.
It was said at the German embassy
that Count Von liernstorff had not com
municated with Secretary Lansing slnci-
he called at the state department at
noon. The ambassador appeared to be
much surprised when informed of the
announcements of tlie department.
German diplomatic circles to-night
seemed to be unable to understand the
attitude of the state department.
It was expected to-night that Count
Von liernstorff would be invited to the
slate department probably to-morrow
and that the views of the Fnited States
in regard to the whole subject would
be explained to him tliat he might ad
vise his government.
FIRE IN AMERICAN
CLUBHOUSE AT TORONTO
I.ohm y.0.nMI Vlun Killed I'liennllriiiril
StorlPH of mi Allen I'lnt.
Toronto, Fob. Ill One man was killed
and two otheis weie injured ill a tlie
which earh to-day wrecked the six-stoi y
slruitiiie of the American cliio. Several
explosions were heard while the llio was
'liming bat accoidlug to laiest Informa
tion received by the police thcie were no
detonations liefoie tho flames, of unknown
oiIrIii, were discovered, Karlv reports,
as yet unconfirmed, were that the bl.v.o
was tho result of an alien military plot,
tlie American club recently having been
the scene of demonstrations In favor of
the entente allies.
A man believed to have been P. 1, llurs
ton of Dallas, Texas, was found suffo
cated just Inside a window on the third
Jloor. Kilward Johnston, night watch
man of the Mechanics' brink, noxt to the
American club, was dangerously Injured
when ho was struck by a chimney which
fell Into the street. Captain Asa Mlnard
of tho STth battalion of tho American le-
i glim, was slightly burned while making
his escape.
Tho Interior of tlie building was de
stroyed and the roof fell In. Tho walls are
intact. Tlie property loss was placed at
sr.'i,".
KORKEY NEW ENGLAND
SKATING CHAMPION
.Sprlnglleld, Mass., Feb. 11. -Knicst
Forkey ot this city won the New ling
land amateur speed skating champion
."hip in this city to-day. He defeated
among others I'.dward L. lilekson ot
Indiana tJichnrd, last year's champion.
Foi key won three of the live champion
ship events In which lie entered, the
qua! ter-tulle, 42 seconds; mile, .ir.', and
two-intle. 7.0.1. Hairy Thome of Bos
ton seemed llio second largest number
of points. Walter Thome ot Boston and
Kdvvnrd Rlckson of Indiana Orchard
vvero tied for third place, Rlckson win
ning on the toss of a coin. Mrs. Frank
MacMlllan of Fort Lee, N. J., easily
won the women's half-mile event, hav
ing two local girls, neither of whom
proved capable of going Hie whole dis
tance, as her opponents.
Paris, Feb. 10.-A llavas despatch filed
at Athens yesteulay sajg the Roumanian
consul at Salnnlkl has Invited all re
servists remaining In that city to rctuin
to Ruumanla Immediately,
MM MIKE WmAPPENINGS IN VT.;
rmrn.iM inn, .
LlUtnUIVI H.ltn H
FIVE DAYSBATTLE
Turks' Chief City in Armenia
Falls to Russians, Following
What Is Described as an Un
precedented Assault.
RING OF FORTS SUBOUEO
Place Is Said to Re of Strategic
Importance Is fiOO Miles Dis
tant, However, from Kut-EI-Amara,
Where the Uritish
Forces Arc Rottled Up.
Loudon, Feb. K-IIrzcrmii. Turkey's
chief city in Armenia. Is in the hands of
tho Russians. Heavy assaults by tho
Russians against the long lino of do.
tached forts protecting the city, lasting
over a period of liv,. davs and described
by Grand Duke Nicholas, the Russian
commander-in-chief, as "unprecedented"
have resulted In the capture of the fort
ress. A Petrograd despatch says Grand
Duke Nicholas lias telegraphed the Km
peror us follows:
"God lias granted tho hiave troops of
the army of the Caucasus such grcal
he that Krzernm has been taken after
live days of unprecedented assault. 1
am Inexpressibly happy to announce this
victory to Your Imperial Majesty."
Fnofticial reports early In tlie present
month said tho German tick marshal.
Vim Der Goltz, with S0,il men were
besieged in the city with provisions for
only a fortnight.
The capture, of Krzerunt Is regarded as
of gicat strategic Importance. From It
radiate loads leading In all directions.
Over thoMs to Hi,, southeast and south
it will be possible for the Russians now
to light their way toward tlttlr compa
triots operating against the PTslans anil
Turks in northwest and west Persia, or
proceed south toward liasckd. to t lie re
lief of tile British bottled IP ill Kul-el-Amara,
on tho Tigris, so.vheasl of Hag
dad. The Immediate effect f the Russlnn
victory on the sitnatlow In Persia and
Mesopotamia is problematical, however,
for despite tlie lo.-nli the country Is
mountalnuus and theio Is still mucli
giound to be covered-something over
LiVi miles Vfoio the Like L'ruinlah dis
trict of Persia Is inched, and ovei
GOO miles before a .iinctlon with tlie
HlllMi at Kut-cl-Anara could be
formed
Vitth the advent of sormv weather n
the western battle llnr the heavy light
ing of the past few diys seemingly has
simmered clown again to artillery bom
bardments and mining nperations. Rer
llu icports. however, that tlie r.ritlsli
and French have endavoicd to recap
ture trench positions nken from them
by the Germans, icspctlvely, southeast
of Ypros and In Cbaiupgne near Tallin e,
but that the attacks ailed. Paris as
serts, on the contrary, that near Tnhitru
the French have reta.cn parts of their
former tienches.
The lliltish and Gcmans nie still at
deadly grips for pssession of the
trenches captured "oni the British
southeast of Ypres. rtillery and hand
grenades being emplojd In the lighting.
Ixmdon reports that in tlie attack In
which the llritlsh let coo ynrds of a
front line the Germns attacked ovei
a front of 4,f) yard but were every
where repulsed with onsiderablo losses
except at the point tfc trench was cap
tured.
On the Russian frot a diivlng snow-
storm along the enti'' line has almost
stopped operation", 'lie usual bombard
incuts, intoiipers'cd 'un mianirv at
tack?, continue on .he Austto-ltahan
line.
In Albania the Amrians and Bulgar
ians arc said to havifornicd a Junction
and are battling for he capture) of the
important seaport ofDurar.zo, which Is
being defended by Kiad Pasha's forces,
consisting of Albanns. Serbians and
Montenegrin.''.
Strumltsa, Rulirari. has been raided
by in French aeroplnes which dropped
15i bombs and retined to their base
unscathed. Several fires were started
by the bombs.
Tho ministers of he entente powers
have Informed the. Belgian government
that hostilities agalit the Teutons and
their allies will noise permitted to end
without Belgium ivlng re-established
its political and Kinomlcal Independ
ence. Tliey added "t the Belgian gov
eminent also vvouhfce called on to take
part In the peace rgotlations.
TWO NEW PFJSION
BILp PASS HOUSE
w III
Add 3,WI0, Annually In K-
l.enilltnres f Hcrlmenl.
"Washington. P- 1". Two pension
hills passed the cuso io-iih.v, propos
ing in all the .clltloii or moro than
KV'OO.non annua' t pension expendi
tures.
One would ji"1 pensions to the
widows and ml tlHl ron of officers
and enlisted in' " ' nuioiy
davs or more "c arni.v, navy or
miirlno corps f j' I'nlted States
either a reguhs or nlunteers during
the war with ,ialnir tho Philippine,
Insurrection b8cAprll 21, UOS. and
Inly 4 100" cwrflng to tho House
pension cominliee. te prospect Is that
there will be te tAo .and claims under
this mcasute. oqul ng Jl.cOO.OOO tho
first year, wit! a tht Increase each
vear for some 'ear
The other hil won give twenty dol
hirs a month " h'vlvors of Indian
wars from IS" " '""; "! 'lio
served ninety Ws " l'"r" 1,1 " ar,111'
campaign ami'"' " - ars old r
over, anil won't P twelve, dollars a
mouth to wHloVs'ofjich Mildlors.
NEWS BY COUNTIES
ADDISOW COUNTY
MIDDLEBURY.
The annual cliuri h supper and the
fourth quarterly confeicnco of the Metho
dist Church was held Wednesday Feb. !
in the dining room of tile church. Not
withstanding the epidemic of Illness In
the. community about KiO members of tho
'"huirh and ' ongi cgatlou wcte. ptesent.
Among tlie Hems of business transacted
by tie.- quarterly conference were the fol
lowing: Stewards elected for the ensuing
vear. Plot. II. M. Seely, VV. N. Cady,
II. M. Haiti. S. It. Alncs. II. N. Dow,
t)r. S. R. IMdy, Prof I". W. Cady, Prof.
.1. A. Mm can. W. P.. Clement, O. II.
I'lannagnn, F. W. Hacon, A. It. Foster,
M. 11. Damon, ft. K. Mead, H. n.
Kturtevant; trustees, Dr. M. II. IMdy,
W. N. Cady. c. G. Cady. II. A. Peck,
Prof. M, P. sanford, G. 11. Rc.v nobis,
William Jackson and N. A. F.rooks. The
following poisons weie confirmed In their
respe live olllces. they having been pre
viously elected liv the respective societies:
W. N. Cndj as .superintendent of the
sundav school; Mrs. W. s. Huntley as
president of the Ladles' Aid society: Mrs.
II. JMdy as piesldent of the Woman's
ii. Lull) as piesuient ot tlie Woman's
mime .v.ssionary society; .Mrs. l' c.
Dyer as president or the Women's For -
clgn Missionary society, Miss Uw. LeVlcIt
luesiueiii in w,e i.pwortli League.
It. N. How was elected lecordlng steward;
and W. N. Cady. district steward.
The election of F. W. Cady as delegate
to the lay clccioi.il conference to be held
at i-'aialogu net Apill vvas conllrnied.
Professor Cady was recommended to tho
annual conference for en dlnatlon to the
older of deacon. The reports from the
various oi ganls:ations and departments
showed the i hurt h to be In a prosperous
condition. Uy a unanitnoi.s vote of the
conference ,,,,,1 nlr nti'tu bci s of the
church present, the dlstiicl superintendent,
the Rev. B. M. ICent, was asked ii use
Ills Inllucnce to have tho present pastur
returned for another year.
An alarm about L':l.". o'clock Fiiday
afternoon was for ,i tire at the homo cit
Mrs. Thomas McCrcay on Weybrldge
street The tire department was soon
on the scene. 1ml tlie bouse wa.s about
ruined before Hie tire wan under inntrnl.
Tlie house fs owned by Walter Martin
and Is understood to ho Insured. The
loss will be about t7 Homo of the
contents of tlie house Were removed, lint
the greater pari was either ruined by
water or burned, The lire is supposed
to have caught from a defective chimney
and the ioof was ablaze bcfoie it was
discovered. The lots is ;, heavy one to
Mrs. .McCrcay, as slic has seven children
who depcuii upon her for caie and sup
port. Mrs. McCrcay was at work at
the Ulssetlc rcstauiant at tho time of
the fire.
The play, "Daddy," in thiee acts, will
be presented at lho..iown ball Frldnv
cvcnlng. March 3, by the young peoplo
of the town, who are rehearsing under
the direction of the ladles of the Village
Improvemenl society. There will also
bo music, vocal and instrumental. The
entertainment w'll be followed by an In
formal dance.-The Young People's so
ciety of tho Memorial Baptist Church
ncld a valentine sociable In the
church pallors Monday msht. At a meet-;
HIS of tlie executive committee of the
Addluon County Fanners' assoi-utlon. it
was derided that tlie association pur
chase a limited amount of Grimm al
falfa seed foi demons-nation purposes
and for apy members of tlie association
who might want a few pounds. Tills
will be handled through the ye-rctary of
the association, Khner Wright, of Wov
bridge. . fanners' meeting will be hold
In the .Scelcy district schoolhouse Fii
day evening at eight o'clock. County
Agent Carrlgan will speak on "Altalta
and Clover," and Phillip Manchester wilt
give a talk on poultry. All are n-
.lie s. cu .o nimg some son or i efresh-I
ments, and a social hour will be cnjo.vcd
nfter the meeting. -J. Wolcott Stew-
art has returned to New Haven,
Vonn., after a few days In town,
Miss Marie Slgnor Is seriously 111.-
liusscll Duncan, who has been III for
two weeks, is slowly recovering. Word
has been icceived from Bentonvllle, Ark ,
that Charles II. Balu, a former resi
dent of this village, who is spending tho
winter In that city wit It ids son, Dr
B C, Bain, lias been seriously ill with
bronchial pneumonia for a few weeks,
but is rapidly Improving. Ills wife ::i
with him, having accompanied him on
the ti ip. William Rogers has returned
to Burlington after a few days with
Ms parents, Mr. and Mrs. James Rogers.
-Mrs. !;. .1. Wiley has returned from
I-ike, N. v., where she has been for
three weeks, having been called there
by tlie Illness of her grandmother, Mrs.
Howard. Mrs. Thomas McCrcay, whoso
home on Weybrldgo street was badly i W'eybrldge. on tho edge of Middlebury,
damaged by tire Fiiday afternoon, has 1"rl,ln'1'' Starch ::, and will last only one
moved Into the Smith hoiwe on Nortt ,h''- T,, "f sm ls offered In pi i7.es.
Pleasant street, Mrs. K. K. Wissell Is ! 11,0 'Icpartment of agriculture has deslg-III.-.MIss
Lillian Brown has conn to Ver. ! "I"1 t!io following experts to be present
gennes for a few days with relatives.
Royal Rturtevant has returned from a
several days' stay in Rurlington, wlieie
he went on business. George Denno,
who was taken suddenly III while at
work at tho C. A, Lvman Ice-house Fri
day, has so far recovered that ho was
bin lo lie at work again Saturday.
John Aldcn of Whiting, who has recently
returned from a trip to Florida, Is
spending a few days In town. Vligll M.
Benedict, a former lesident, who has
been visiting In town, lias returned to
his hunie. Charles M. Barrows, one of
the mail carriers on the Mlddlchury
Brldport route, who has been seriously
111 for two weeks, Is much better, but
..lrey
lot yet able to resume
; " , , ' ' , '
ned Saturday oven tig
,
a visit n Vcrgennes
J. Cumin rctui
niter a xow einyu' visit In Vcrgennes
nnd Fnderlilll. .Moses Wilson, superin
tendent at the Mlddlebiiry Llnic com
pany's plant In Now Haven, has return
ed to New Haven. After a severe ill
ness ot two weeks with the grip Jmnes
Dumas has so far recovered as to be
ablo to attend to his business agnln.
Raymond
" " "" ir ill liIl
on
vveek's visit to his grandparents,
Air. and Mrs. Joseph Forest. .Mrs
W.
Wooster, who has been ill for a
few
weeks. Is slowlv lecoverlnir I
.Monday was ono of the coldest days
of the winter here and early In the
moinlng thermometers In different
parts of tile town Indicated 17 to JO
degrees below zero A largo force of
men, Including every available.
HHi'l i
about
town, was put nt work op tho
leu .Monday morning; by tho Ico con-
tractors here. In the hope that they
will he able to comploto their harvest
boforo another serloti3 break comes In
tho weather Mr. and .Mrs. Gordon
Wllltlns of Pittsburgh, N V are vls-
Itlntr relatives In this vicinity Four
Inches of snow fell hero Saturday and
Sunday and the sleighing Is now ex
(client In the village, hut on the coun
try roads the snow has been blown off
In many places and the hauling for
teams Is hard Judge John II. Weeks
It. is returned from Morrisvllle, where
ho spoke Sunday evening at the Fnlon
llrotherhood meeting at the Congre
gational Church on "After Prison,
What?" L'dwlii WicUsnn, who for two
years has been shephetd nt the gov
ernment farm In Wevbrldge, went Tues
day to Cliazy, N. Y., to take a similar
position with the W. II. Martin estate.
Ills hi other, Albert Wlikson, who is
shepherd for tho ItoMlawn Farms jit
Douglasvllle, Pa., and who has been
making him a visit for three weeks,
has retutlieil to his home. .Willis N.
Cady has returned from Itutland, where
on Saturday night ho took putt in tlie
working of degrees in tlie Rutland
Valley Gmnge meeting. .1. P. Hyyt
has returned from Whiting, where he
pro celled at the Congregational Cliun h
Sunday. Miss Mav Flvnn or Bellows
1 i'!Vn s town fol. a fow lliiya lU the
, home of Mr. and .Mrs. Henrv Dumas
' Fr.niik- m,.,...i, r i.r.. ,. i in
Proctor is in town
lo visit Ills mother, Mrs G. Mcllugh. M.
AVilcox, bookkeeper and telegraph opera
tor at tho G. K. Marshall store. Is con
lined to his homo by sickness. Mr. and
Mrs. Jl. D. Archer of Main street ale
both confined to their homo on Main
street b Illness. J. ' Downing left
Saturday night for the South, where
he Intends to spend some time. The
Young People's society or Hie Memorial
Baptist Church held a well attended
valentine so-iabb. In the church par
lors Monday evening. There were
games and various amusements and
refreshments were served. Monday,
market day, eggs brought 21 cents and
butter 'jTi to SO. Tho Parent-Teaclier
association will meet at tho high
school building Friday arternoon ut
2.'i0. The parents of the Jullors and
seniors are especially urged to be pres
ent. Tlie Rev. Mr. Cratlicrn had a
good audience ot the Memorial Baptist
Church Sunday evening to hear his lec
ture! and onco more sec Darius Cobb's
"The Master "
The valentine sociable which was held
In the Memoiiul Baptist Church Mondav
evening was largely attended In splto of
the extremely cold weather. A tine pro
Si am was carried out and ret resluneiits
worn served. Mrs. Charles A. Lyman
while going from her lioue to the bain
Monday afternoon fell on the ice and was
severely -bruised. No bones weio broken.
D. Feiicy of Wcyhridgo street while at
work on the ice just above tlie railroads
bridge T'jetda morning stepped on rome
thin Ice. which biokc arid let him through
He was hauled out bv Isaac Williamson,
who was working with him. So far he is
none the worso for bis sudden bath. Wil
liam S. Hart, auditor of the D. ei II. rail
rend, who has been visiting at tlie homo
of Mr. and Mrs. r. T. Rordenu, has ie
tiirncil tu Meehanlcsvillc, N. V. Mrs. II.
Dumas and daughter have gone to Ver
gennes for a few days. Mrs. Hcurv Wil-
i cov has gone to I errlsburg, called thcie
bv the serious illness of her brother-in-law,
Mr. Avery Tho Friendly society of
St. Stephen's Church held a well attended
meeting at the homo of Mis. c. K. Chll
son Tuesday evening. Mrs. Tina Woos
ter of Newark, N. .1.. lis in town to visit
her mother. Mis. W. Wooster. Mrs. Noah
Wissell leaves for a hospital In Hurling
on, where she Is to undergo treatment.
The. Women's Auxiliary of the V. M. C.
A. will hold their lirst meeting In tlie
parlors of the Memorial Baptist Church
Monday evening at 7:"o o'clock. Professor
Charles B. Wiisht will address tile meet-
lug. Mi s. Grace llrovvn, who has been 111
for lo days, has so far lecoyered as to hi
able to bo about again. Tho stock of
goods In tile W. L. Ford harness shop was
sold at auction at a sheriff's sale on Tues-
day nnd a huge number of people camo
in irom the country to attend. .Mr. and
Mrs. Albert Holbrook and daughter, Miss
'Judith Holbrook, ot Canton, N. Y.. are
visiting In town. The plant of the Middle
bury Marble company n mile and a half
cist of the village, which a company of
capitalists flum abioad have been devel-
I oping for two years, has been shut down
and will be closed for tlie lest of the wm-
1 tor. It Is expected that work will be re
sumed as soon as spring begins John L.
' Hurehanl and John ?tnkcs of Sboiehani
'and .1. L. DeWitt of Hrldport aie In town.
I William M. Wright and John Glancy
started Tuesday for Fayston, where tliey
have positions for tho rest of tho winter.
Tho annual winter stock show will be
helil nt the Fulled States Moigin farm at
and Judge the stock: George M. Rommcll,
chief of the bureau of animal Industry,
G. Arthur Bell, expert In cattle. F. It.
Marshall, ovpert In sheep. Henry M. l.a
inon, ovpert hi poultry, The horses and
cattle to be exhibited must he btoken to
lead nt tho halter In order to receive con
sideration by the Judges. There will bo
free transportation from this village to
tho farm nnd return and free lunch will
be served at noon. Mr. Mellssi Wilson,
widow of George Wilson, vv ho had beep
III for a long time, died early Wednesday
moinlng at the aao of t'l cats of a com
plication or troubles. She Is survived lv
llvo grandchildren; Doiothy, Kllon and
riilllls Degiey, and George and Joseph
She had mado her home for scv-
leral years with her son-in-law, .1
I - ,. ,, , ,, , ,
i grey, father ol tho children, vvht
,,. - t, , ,,
lerry Dc-
ho she has
taken caio of slnco tile death of their
I mother. She also lias one sou, Hayes
j Kllsivorth of Rochester, N. Y, Mrs. W'll
isoii was a member of tho Methodist
Church of tills village and very attentive
.to her church duties when In health. Miss
Nellie ToltliiKham, who has been vlslting
... ,i, i,,.,,,,,
of her sister, Mrs. 11. W.
Innes. lin- rntiimn.1 t.. ut. i. - m..-
,,,. A1 wlp,,. of tlln V . ' "
tlst Chinch held a well atlcnded meeting
at tho home of Mrs. R. ;, Whlttlmore
Wednesday afternoon. -Mrs. John Stew,
i.rt Is directing ichearsals lor a coined v
to be presented In the town hal: on Friday
evening, .viaien ::, ror llio benefit of tlie
Mlddlobury improvement soviet) . The
proceeds will bo especially directed to.
ward Idling in the school groundx u e
' '
IC'utiilniituI ui l'
A MILD APPROVAL
OEGOV.iU'S
ADMINISTRATION
New York G. 0. P. "Commends'1
Executive's Work in Resolu
tion Distinct from One Relat
ing to National Affairs.
GOVERNOR ONE 0F"BIG FOUR"
But (he Other Three DclcgatcE
to National Convention Arc
Anti-Whitman Men Delega
tion Will Attend Uninstruclcd
A Four-Hour Fi;ht.
New York. Feb JO. -The republ nn
national campaign will be fought ot
demands Tor adequate milit.it) pro
pareilni'ss and t-irlff reform, oppoaitlon
to granting carlv Independence to the
Philippines and Insistence on a vigor
ous stand for American rights both In
.Mexico and in relation to tlie Ftiro
pean war, according to tlie "keynote"
platform adopted by tho republican
State convention.
he outlines of the platform, which
was approved unanimously, were pre
sentcd lasl night In the speech of fol
ium' Senator Hlihu Root. There was
no dirferenci: of opinion apparent
among tho S3.' delegates to the con
volition in regard to the platform, but
a hitter tight was precipitated by the
attempt of tho supporters of Governor
Whitman to obtain an iinqu. ilified en
dorsement for his administration and
to force Ills nomination as chairman of
the delegation to the national conven
tion in Chicago.
Tlie no result was that New York State
will send an uninstriicted delegation to the
national convention. If the action of th
convention is upheld by the voters at th
primar.v election 111 April.
A detei mined light, led by Henry L.
Stlmson, to obtain a resolution recom
mending Mr. Root as New York s favorite
son for the presidency, was defeated in
tlie committee on tesolutlons and a eoun-ter-icsolution,
that no presidential candi
date be endorsed, was passed unani
mously. The principal ground on which the op
ponents of tho Root icsolntlon fought was
that an endorsement of Mr. Root would
preclude the possibility of New York put
ting forward Supreme Court Justice
Charles H. Hughes as tho State candidate
for tho presidency. Nicholas Murray But
ler, chairman of tiio committee, issued a
formal statement in which he said tha'
Mr. Root was himself opposed to the use
of his name.
Tlie hg battle in tlie convention wa
fouslit out between the "old line" or
ganization republicans under tho leader
ship of William Raines and the sup
porters of Governor Whitman. The Barnes
men entered the convention witli the
avowed purpose of refusing un endorse
mctit of the Whitman administration and
preventing the Governor from heading
tlie New York delegation to the nationa'
com ention.
The question of endorsement ended in
a i ompromi-e by w hich two resolutions
were presented to tlie convention, one
dealing exclusively with national affairs
and tho other "commending" Governor
Whitman for his cond'ict of tlie State
administration.
This part victory of the Governor was
offset by a complete defeat on the ques
tion of the national delegates. The Whit
man forces had united all their strength
In an errort to nominate Davfd Jayne
Hill of Rochester, as one of the "big
tour" The Haines faction declared
themselves absolutely opposed to Dr HP!
and pie-ented instead the name of Wit
Ham Beni of Biooklvn After a light
whbli lasted four hours, the committee
on delegates tlnnllv agreed on V S.
Senator James Wadsworth, Jr., Charle"
S. Whitman. Frederick C. Tanner and
F.lon R Brown, republican lender In the
State Senate. As Wadsworth, Tanner
and Brown are all reputed antl-Whltman
men, the committee's decision was
accepted as a decisive defeat for Governor
Whitman.
The committee further announced that
no recommendation would be made as
to chairman of the "big four," In spite
of Governor Whitman's public declara
tlon that ho expected to be named as
head of the national delegation. To aid
point to the announcement. Senator
Wadsworth's name headed the nt given
out by the committee and was the first
put in nomination at the convention Ac
cording to custom, tlie tlrt delegate
nominated acts as chairman, although
tho matter of leader is left for final
decision to the delegates themselves
NORWICH CADET IS
INJURED RY CHEMICALS
Brallloboro. Feb. If. - Merrill C Has.
kell, son of W. F. Haskell of Rrattle
boro, vn brought here this afternoor
from Norwich Fnlverslty with both eye;
Injured as the result of an explosion ir
tho chemical laboratory. Ho was lakn'
this evening to Springfield to a speilal
ist. He was n graduate last year of Hi.
llrattleboro high school and enterci
Norwich last fall.
SOUTH HERO CANNING CO.
Concern Hiin ST..000 Copilot Mock
it
Greet lliillillog.
Montpeller, Feb. 1C Articles of ineoi
pornlion were llled to-day with the sn
rotary of stale by the South Hero Can
ning Factory Building couipan), Ine
for tho purpose of en ling and main
I n 1 1 1 i n c suitable buildings for ciinnlnc
purposes. The capital pluck Is J.'i.iui i
I nil shares. Ti0 iiuoiporaloi's aie Geo i
Tracy, 11. W. Keelcr, II. B. Phelps, W
Robinson, Henry Maeti and II. M II i
I." i-'J
