THE HERALD.
Devoted to the Upbuildlng of the West Side of the River. "A very live and creditable weekly newspaper."-MANUFACTURERS' RECORD.
NEW" ORLEANS LOUISIANA, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1916. N,. .
.- II, .DESTRnOV R F!,I - r
GREATEST STORE SOUTH
Demonstration of the Newest
,.- MODELS OF
BON TON CORSETS
t .. , ' i .,, I 1, . ,: h i ',,, .,. h. ,,, , 1 , l, . m,, .
i N , ,1, k. I . I ' ;
S l.,, :1 1I. .I i
WITH GOLD WATCH. I
Sggs, one of the lmost po,)
of the Woodmen of the
Is wa, was presented with I
Sold watch and stick pin
uotg of Orange ('amp No.
All Hall, last week. The
wasm made by M.ajor N.
who complimented th.*
r I aplendid work ,luring
w hl the matter of brin.
into the order.
d lioMa were in the na-I
wrise to the reciplent.
...I were made was the
me a "roasting" by Cap- 
lseb, of Coml'an
SCEMENT
Gravel, Brick, Lime,
Sewer Pipe
Hotard 320 Opelousas
Join
Bur Watch Club
are carrying an antiquated, spasmodic watch, why don't you replace it
thoroughly up-to-date, highly accurate model of the latest style? Join
Watch Clhub-a plan that adds nothing to the cost, yet multiplies the
i Credit Privileges at Cash Prices
the feature of our plan we wish you to fully realize. The price is the same
WE pe cash or not, and no housee ndereelle us.
Extra Special Watch Offer
1 $1-2o Down---$1-00 Weekly
12-Size Thin Model 16-Size
"ELGIN" "HAMILTON"
17 jewels, adjusted 17 jewels,
to four Positions and Adjusted to
Temperature. Temperature.
30-year gold filled case 25-year gold filled case.
FREE
With either of above watches, a fine gold filled,
silk ribbon fob with safety attachment, or a vest or
Waldemar chain. Guaranteed to wear ten years
"Our Watches do their best advertising in your pocket."
* We extend payment terms to out-of-town buyers. Send for
* Catalog.
624 Canal St.
"Greatest Watch House South"
By cutting out and presenting this advertisement and 50c. it will
constitute the first payment on either of above watches.
II. I niform Itank. who was so seri
ous in his talk that e eryone believed
Sovereign Owens had been guilty of
,'harues of (ausing discord and was
to be court-martialed by the uniform
rank officials. The meeting was at
tended by 25 members of the uniform
rank of Palmetto ('amp, with Cap
tains Philips and Lewis in command.
HEADQUARTERS.
The John M. Parker Independeat
L)emocratic Club of the Fifteenth
Ward has established permanent
headquarters at 514 Patterson street.
All who are interested are invited to
drop around at any time and make
themsc-lves at la3:n,. SECT'.
i PERSONALS i[
AND OTHERWISE
('or(ld. inee' ('ochraine.. .lt,.r itof Gteor.
IP. Co, brall., and \alt r lopi too,
plac., last 'e tk at L.,e I!nin, .t th.
bride's ll phen lli . .1. qI tr. .. in l -
Itionoghlillet., Pv. I'e., r- o(ili i itini,
1Mr. and .,lrs. (oihran,.. 1 .1 Sr"hl I,
a \Id 1i-s ( 'arri i'. I' t. str."i th r.
t ndant :. Supi. r %%a. cnj w..edi ian or
M/ c rs 1'ih .-. "l, nri ks . r, , , ti ,d h, t .l i r I
: "h, rnmit ' a a i'' 1 i -iol Io" it ,
ua-, taraft 'or' i .it t tn at viit
i n liall t i t' i i., i ,f a t Fridac , Ii' ,
lIttia . T illh  't t , ill tit, inS r l t ,
au ,pi< es of the \'t'unll n': luii l ..: 1 .
l ! ) v.t Episcopali l u'liur, h anti a dI.
1:._- tful tlru, is asstur, I;n ir. -!:
~.tl t t ill , ,- lrv .t
('ll :,brt t e, ph rt ! il N w I (r n :
I t take ' ;rt i th I( ariival f fs'tivi
't . itL." ittlts ip t , ii t ky n ill ,r
rit., h.r, on ''Thursday. Mar-bl '. 'ron
iV ,r ( 'r /. ('unt l andr II. E. lli,.
itiouke . is in millliand. She wasi-l o
sof the to first hIattle ciilp with s,,
Ar rimTpo;,il turr.'ts built for the navy.
ibl -n a sistsr .-hip of the Karearite'.
A\ta i l e-'titig of the School Hlouir
litbll Thursday, a rltu est s ilotlih I'.
('aae. attorni". for .\Adam Si.kinter.
fir r.'I;aration for dehstru.ction of his
house by the stormt of Septembenr "9,l
t ati which tinme it was tleinge moved
by the board, was refused and it was
stated that suit ill be brought. It
w l ill be remembered that Mr. Sickin
ger's home, near the Naval Station.
is was being moved by the School Board
mi at thime to make room for the new
t- school to be erected there.
The Amesville postoffice in heffer
son parish was changed Tuesday to
Marrero.
d. The annual commencement exer
cises of the commercial department of
the Esplanade Avenue Girls' High
School took place Tuesday evening
at in the auditorium of the school. Miss
th Thelma Rooney, of our district, was
nt one of the graduates. We congratu
to ess.
te Mr. and Mfrs. Dahir Hanna left last
week for Terrm laute. hid.. to lite tie
guests of relatives. On their return
they will be at home to their friends
at 1021 Pacific avenue.
Misses Ruth Barlow and Florence
Labarre, of St. Joseph's Convent.
spent the week-end with their sisters.
Mrs. Frank Duffy and Mrs. F. Albion
Daniels. They attended the Yami ball
at the Athenaeum while here.
Warren Seymour. of Baton Rouge.
was in town for a few days on busi
ness.
Mrs. Carmelite Thomson and her
little daughter, Katherine. have re
turned from Memphis. Tenn.. where
Sims'
Break fast
Food
SATISFIES THE WHIMS OF THE
ENTIRE FAMILY
II ':. 1 ! ,
l.! , tt .. t t .( '. it- ' . . o ,
PRICE 15c
A. M, &J., Solari, Ltd,
201 Royal St. 3400 ST. Charles
thei, Ner- ,ald :y th-, ;lint.- o
thteir:' tn I('.
Mr. and \1r7. John Iit wrT)
am1otll n the .1u1".t" ;ho participated III
tie surprise party tiven Mr. and Mrs.
.limt Bruiton. of t;retna. in h]onor of
their a oden ,l.eddlinz (iavlv relati.e
were present, .but it a\,t. a jilly t roil
Mr. and Mrs. Ed .1a rei\ . of IHo:
liusa. La.. are receivitn. conraltul.
Itions onil the arrival of a sa ,eit ha,'y
_ irl. Mrs. Maareevy wa- fornm-rly
I >iss Fole,. of our town.
The St. Valentine Lotto (lub nmet
at the residehn e of Mrs. llenr \'Vet.,
on Valentine ulight. An enjoyaIIle
time \was spent.
Mrs. W. E. Iliggins ipre,e!ted her
husband w ith ta fine baliy girl.
Mrs. Amelia Smith returned Tues
day from t;enesee, La.. where she
went in the interest of the Woodmen
('ircle. She u ill lea e tomorrow for
D onaldsonville.
Mrs..\. S. iDaniels, of the Seashore
Camp Grounds, is spending a while
here, the guest of her sister.
The regular meeting of the Kinder
garten Mothers' ('lub was held Friday
afternoon in the Belleville Annex,
dMrs. A. J. Amuedo prn".idiag. This
being a social meeting, all busines
was dispensed with. Miss Eleanor Mc
Main. of the Kingsley house. gave
quite an interesting talk on "Social
Centers," and Mrs. Gladys Blanc ren
dered several instrumental solos. IDe.
licious refreshments were served uy
the club.
Miss Eugenia Herbert expects to
leave Sunday for the Seashore ('amp
Grounds to spend two weeks.
Mr. and Mrs. John BHeaudeau, of the
Lower Coast .are receiving congratu
lations on the arrival of a baby girl.
Mrs. Pascal Itodostra. of the Lower
Coast, presented her iusvand with a
baby girl.
Miss .\lita Baker attended a leap
year dance on Frilay night at the
home of Miss Mamie Fanning. 1429
Magazine street.
Misses Anna Leitz. Mercede:
Welcks and Mamie Panning were
week-end guests of Miss Alita Baker.
Mrs. Boyd Monroe. of New Castle,
Ky., is the guest of her sister. Mrs.
Moore, 614 Bouny street.
Mr. Moore, of 614 Bouny street, was
confined to his home a few days. but
is now better and has resumed his
position with the M. L. & T. R. R. Co.
Mr. and Mrs. Hlorace Nelson spent
a week with their mother. Mrs. L,.
Tufts.
Miss May McNeely entertained a
few of her friends to meet Mr. and
Mrs. Redmond on last Saturday.
Rev. S. L. Vail entertained the mem
bers of the choir after practice Tues
day. Everyone participating had an
enjoyable time.
The leap year dance given by the
young ladies of our town was a sue
cess. Sixty-six couples participated
and all had a glorious time. The hall
was beautifully decorated for the oc
casion. Mr. and Mrs. H. Lecourt and
Mrs. W. P. Salathe, Sr., chaperoned.
Miss Martha McNeely spent a few
days in Covington, La.
Miss Olga McNeely came in front
Covington Monday to attend the lear
year dance and left Wednesday fom
her home.
Whon Your Ne, orse is k Ph..
DR. V. Li ROCCHI
Hemlock 174
HOSPITAL ls1 TOULOUSE"ST
MR. YOUNG MARRIED MAN:
Safety Irst Investlgate the be1 lts yes
cu erlve tre memrbership in the
WOUIi6IlEli'S UNI01N AD IEIEVOLEIT
ASSOCIATIII
AIsk ay momrkr ad dr
W. G. AWDor, Roe. Sec,
416 sta Avesse AL.ERS.
DESTROYER FLLSSER
ARRIVES IN PORT. /
War Craft W'!I Be Used as Tra n;ngl
Sh.p for Naval Militia.
pedo boat d.str, ,r.. i- t ci ,,i t,
' i, . in Ia . - i: ,I I . rI. I ; .. ,
Ip, l i ii f iodin- , o l.onin,. i i \
il t su lc, t,, ' ..t 'i ,. . . - l
1 rt"d. !,u th." t a r.onth I rO : In
Sll'ade u'l,. The? lived at '1''i, Atlati' I
I'. u r'r i " ,i 1,-i r. ".1,h .i *..t, .'r
leIu. I r. ri rot n i" a ciarnt. ' r :,
r s. Br uerink ata luarntitx fIi
crtlr:lr it 1· e,,. r I u lan l c rc-,c nt i . !, rit
' j',ir 'l ni -i r .l" ii1 . . l..I
!.4ill t l ,c ol " 'ts r n,-1 x h n 'rr, I, ''tu,
aain they- quarrceled.
arhe l.flt th:,e hou n - cit dl and.
Ilin . to a tl ru store. at ,llrrch. l n tie
iodine Mr. Iatllownd it at c enter.n
nd '.ard llro, ii trts. She u1, founold
urfan is r,n", o in th a lwalk bhriy oyrlo
pital fromi , of d ltr in t ,olie si -1
1-ttion. ,l to haeur dar rIli- ovid to thi' t
tho],' i 'tal. ' a t I , : lle h
inrr S. J. iS. C. RIDallE. r
oin te mitt in ch.rru h of they irste
lt. Ih." ; .aid u that they h iead te n s -
eS. J. S. U . on Saturday night, t enb.
avth. report allrwn is arran arpents om
1 rletan, and indications are that a
.lrae numew r oftIe Alers people will
Mrsattend. iro doinek a quantiof the
tra. are so well known quarrthat th need
St- hft the hoallare raxgitcdl o and.
iodibut alit d tle mention. In addition, ho
laerg there will be the spirit of S. J.
ifest on the ocrsios of the was fount
affairs wivtn bh this clube so that all
who attnd thare suretopenwalk byd a porleas
traionl ewis, or child. tartes desir
ing ttleo alon, who amove no to keth.
S. ir S. .C.RIDE.
can do o bit pa in thare of the rat the
boat.
Relotining at Station to ew Orgileans
!aethe reports all arrangements com
Postoffced, and for the week ending are thateb. aeb.
Sidneys- with its splendid dancingth,
floor and extia: ceptionallyker Mrs. arriche.
nbut littlemen-rtion. In addition, how
ever.: Fishere will be the pirit of S. J.
Jons. etClub which: Johnsonhas made itself so nnie:
ifest on the occasions of tepherecen.t
Oaffairs given by this club, ostmaster.l
boat.
3 NO GAMELST OF UNCLAIMED LETTERS
Posith thoffce losr the weekof hunting seb.son
Fearris, 15, th e restaurants and mar-is
ketsic: Payton Mrs. Mary: Palmer, Mrs. in
Clthe state l'harrve been notified by theRerbuart: Rol
liConse Mrs. Nancy; Soommissaion that the
Irmsale of all game must cMrase. The state
la, Presidntlemen-Brot Alewander has calledy
R:attenton toFisher, permits anh game on. J.;
-Jon the season maJohnsy be offered for sale
.and disposed of during the firmast iver.
daWis after the close of huntinghe season
Therefore, the order sents and mar
the statcommission's head Tuesda by thcau
tionserv and arns all dealers Commisson that theSun
dsale of ary , wll begame must tease The last dayte
of the season ofmay he offered for salewhich
game on hand may be sold.
r. FIRE DESTROYS COTTAGE.
Fire of unknown origin early Mon
day morning destroyed a single cot
tage owned by William Gains. It was
valued at $260 and not insured. The
flames spread to the shed of the house
at 1237 Elmira avenue, but work by
the Algiers fire department and 6a
vorable winds reduced the damage to
this buldhlg to a mo trile.
Friendships
With individuals, constant) of friend
ship is cherished above wealth
It is evidence of goodness of hea:t nud
honesty of purpose when a person cnj(,yvs
many friends.
The same principle is involved in busi
ness friendships.
By holding fast to a fixed purpose of
serving the entire public efficiently and
faithfully, we are daily seeking to win new
friends, as well as merit established friend
ships for the institution.
D. H. Holmes Co.
Paris. New York, LIMITED F~tabliehed
Berln, London and Floren.. LIMITED ,i, ed
J
MASON & HAMLIN CO.,
Dear Sire -
As in music, history shows that now and then a composer has come
upon the scene who by his greatness has burst through the tradi
tions and lawe according to which hie forerunners have worked, and cre
ates now laws for himself, co it seeme to me the Mason & Hamlin Piano
has created a new standard of piano tone of the very highest musical
quality, and I congratulate not only you but the musical world on the
existence of your suburb instrumento. Sincerely yours,
E rIL OBERHOFFER,
Conductor of the famou. Minneapolie Symnfony Orchestra
7AqUlLrU I9m pww 912-914
U J J w zCANAL
Successors to Cable Piano Co. STREET
We Employ Home Labor
Therefore
We Can Serve You Better and
More Promptly
FAIRNESS AND COURTESY TO ALL
ALGIERS RAILWAY & LIGHTING CO.
222 ELMIRA AVENUE
PHONE ALOIERS 151 SALESMAN WILL CALL
PRONE ALGIERS 9142
STEVE TRUPIANO
DEALER IN
Fancy Groceries, Wines, Liquors, Etc.
Cold Beer and Cigare a Specialty . Oyater. in All Style.
12) PATTERSON lST. -17-1, ALOICERS, LA.
YOUR DRUGGIST
FACTS TO CONSIDER.
iirst-The Reputation lie Has.
Second-The Class Of Irugs That iHe I)ispense .
Third-That your prescriptions are tilled by a ri'ikteredi pharina
-ist and not by peole just ilarning the business.
Fourth - Larie Blusiniess Means J.arize [luying.
Fifth-Substituting of Just .\s Good.
Now that I have called your attention to somn of the important
points, I will try to show you hon we -omljarT. iith th. majority uf
retail drug stores.
First- The Reputation.
Thlis I will leave to thre public who know the hieh i 'i : lar l tul I t,,ra r
has maintained since the first dac it as. ope, . ,ii th hi' . i s r, .t i la. 1
nave aliays stood for the hich:, t t:tandard ,f qlalit,
Second--Tlhe ('lass Of Trucgs 11 I)iji *n-,..
In this connec(tion I nmay say, that at all ti: . n- I r,' rtition
Separtmunt is open to the inspection o1f yoiur 'lht tar .r ;,r: ,i a:: ..
Ihat knows anythine about tlledicitli, to c-s tihe i at i;ui " 's tlh;it
ire used in the fillint (if yvour Ir,-cri titon 'l'hi,- 1 a. *i",'.t! itl t,
Lo with the results the doctor Let ,  hi(h I11t t1Ii. I i-, Ir diath to you.
Third-Itergistered IPharmacist
Too much <annot iLe aid aiiatt ti-is paIartic; ul, ar Jirt ,f our !,ui
ness. I have at all tlms Two Ie tti',r,,l I'har;;: : -t, n chargi, ,f
your presc-riltions. This .holdl( le -in a fi ll , , t: -:,,ratio n a; it tal '-.
four years of practical c.\perlence to l,,, ,:in. a r.-. -itr,. I JiHarrma ist
F o u rt h -- L a r g e IBu s in, .s w 1 ,lc n L. a Tr .', t: .t. in e
The volume of bt-ineis- I tin di -in in antPs l, I an* u, it it
large quantitles, which . itablies l ii. to -'i it a :I'* r. ", lon ir Itrm i
than my competitors.
Pifth-Substituting Or Just .\s ;a,,d
Substitution is not tklerat d in a. :, ir . r -, r, h -,
that I uage a my slogan "Y'ou (t What Y, 1 I .T.. ' ' -,
only practiced in the front of the tru . ,b , r, . ri.tLn Ih
partment as well. where yol lae t, trui" to t .:, -t" f 1 · r a !r
gist.
BErdUP, DErue $s
B erm uda,. F_,l s .Ve,'ret-St _
