iv»' •.
There are many advantageous fea
tures in giving your-place an official
name, the primary one, perhaps, being
that it lends prestige to the owner in
the markets and in the commercial
world generally. If your correspond
ence is carried on with stock-raisers or
produce merchants, it will have far
The following is a list of farm names
registered to date in Barnes county,
in order of registration:
Riverside Farm, Chas. F. Mudgett.
Plum Grove Stock and Poultry
farm, Euna C. Grant.
Lake Farm, Hugh McDonald.
Valley View Farm, H. C. Stenshoel.
Spring Creek Farm, L. S. Platou.
Soo Flarm, L. S. Platou.
Golden Grain Farm, L. S. Platou.
Alfalfadale Farm, L. S. Platou.
Springvale Stock Farm, Cornelius
"Vanderwerf.
Springdale Stock Farm, James Al
geo.
The Woodland Grain and Stock
Fafm, Wm. Larsman.
Fair View Farm, Andrew H. David
son.
Meadow Creek Farm, Martin O.
Skonnord.
field.
Meadow View Grain and stock Farm,
A. J. Sa ammer.
Barnes county has many fine (arms
that are worthy of a name and regis-
law.
a couple of days. Father Higgins came
over from Oriska Wednesday to be in
PURCHASED RANCH
•T'l-i- ••'•1'v v', ,•* -1'
Barnes County Farmers Utilize
Registry for Names of Farms
.greater weight with them, if it is done There a Difference Between the Lodge
on well printed stationery showing'and the Church?" The members of the
that you are no small affair on the Odd Fellows lodge were the guests of
rural map and that your business de- the church for the occasion. The fol
mands recognition as well as the firm lowing is a brief synopsis of the ser
to whom you are writing or dealing.
Should a farmer receive a letter from
a concern or a business house written
on cheap blank paper, he would be tically everything. The lodge is only
very apt to belittle said firm and proo-' one of the many organizations all of
ably give it but passing if any notice.! which bespeak a unity of human inter
Uow why would not that firm look tbe ests, and are the forerunners of a
same upon a letter from you? Ever'larger co-operation among men.
think of that? We give herewith a "The fact that many men and mod
synopsis of the North Dakota law re-
garding registration of farm names: |moral standards of Christianity has
"Any owner of a farm in the state of tended to an unfavorable criticism of
North Dakota may have the name of the church and an unwarranted esteem
his farm, together with a description of such achievements. The church, if
of his land to which said name applies, properly understood, will be seen as
recorded in a register kept for that the agency which has made the larg
purpose in the office of the register of' est contribution to the bringing of this
deeds of the county in which said farm' about. The fact that modern society
is located, and said register of deeds and many institutions have adopted
shall furnish to such land owner a' christian moral ideals, is only a testi
proper certificate setting forth said mony to the success of the church in
name and the description of such land.
When any name shall have been rec
orded, as the name of any farm in such
county such name shall not be record
ed as the name of any other farm in
the said county.
"Any person having the name of his |je interpreted as an attempt to dis
farm recorded, as provided in this act,
The Pleasant Prairie Home No. 2, J.
C. Arduser.
Red Cedar Farm, Jens Paulson.
Willoway Farm, Paul Melanson.
White Ash Stock Farm, Alex Nayes.
Church Hill Farm, L. S. Norgaard.
Pleasant View Farm, F. P. Widdl-
cr
shall first pay to the register of deeds their places. I have always believed
a fee of one dollar, which fee shall be that a measure of brotherhood is bet
paid to the county treasurer in the ter than none. Rather is the aim to
same manner as other fees are paid to jea(j the hearers to give each its proper
the county treasurer by the register place, and overcome the tendency that
of deeds, and credited to the special
salary fund."
be
tration and the Times-Record hopes to
see many more take advatage of the' "Turning
St Catherine Mission
Draws Big Audiences
The Mission at Saint Catherine's
church, in charge .of Father Mullaly, of
Chicago, is drawing good crowds to
the morning masses, while in the even
ing the church is practically full.
Father Mullaly is an Irishman, a Bos
ton Irishman at that, and there is al
ways something in his pat illustra
tions that fixes itself indelibly on the
minds of his hearers.
Father Simon, of Fingal, spent Tues-' ...
lt
VOL. XXXV—'NO. 43. (This Issue 12 Pages.) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1916.
Odd Fellows listen
to Splendid Sermon
The address at the Methodist church
Sunday morning was on the theme, "Is
mon:
"We live in a time of multitudinous
organizations. Men organize for prac-
ern
institutions have accepted the
favorably impressing men. This is not
to the discredit of the church but rath
er a credit. This is the chief end for
which it exists.
"Being a member of a local lodge,
the remarks of the morning are not to
edit the lodge as such. They have
sometimes arises to feel that there is
no place for co-operation with the
church or holding it in high esteem.
"In comparing the two institutions,
we find that in the main, while the
moral standards are largely the same
so far as form is concerned, still there
is a difference in the application of the
same. The lodge calls its members to
charity, sympathy and helpfulness,
with some emphasis on these virtues
as being universally applicable, but In
practically every instance there is the
greater emphasis on manifesting these
traits in relation to one member to an
other. In practice at least this is
where it terminates. The lodges build
worthy homes for the aged and needy
but always so far as the speaker
knows, for its own members or those
dependent upon them. Men join the
lodge primarily for what will come
back to them socially and materially,
while a specific fee is demanded and
gladly paid because of that which is
expected in return. Even the helping
hand is in danger of having a mixed
motive behind it. We may be in need
or those dependent upon us sometime
and if we give it will come back to us.
So we are in danger of reasoning, not
withstanding the fact that it would not
"i ~to7ay"that"the"genero*8ity"o!
mem
bership of a lodge were bound-
enUrely by lllterCBts This one
gho[lld n(J?er beUeve to be (he caM
t0 the
church'
a substitute for the same.
day and Wednesday in the city in at-.
tendance at the mission services.! "This however is not the chief dif
Father Kleidon, of Sanborn is Mre for
ference-
The
further'
its
membership to the same kind of mor
als, aside from the fact that it knows
no class lines. The man who has hot
the price of initiation fee has as great
a claim upon us as these who have
more. The passwords of the church
are "Our Father" for the outer door,
and "My Neighbor'-' for the inner, and
yet wtoen one gets in he finds that the
whole outside is there before he came.
In fact there are no peek holes in the
lodge of the church. Morality is not
to be measured by the yard stick or
by a few good deeds. It is a spirit
that dominates a man in relation to
all men. The lodge was not intended
to take the place of the church, and
until it becomes as broad as all life
in the applications of its privileges
church goes a step
in that
men«
it Is saying first unto
"The
moral life
attendance at the services. Father emphasize as good must find its root
Deele, of Lidgerwood, is also here.
Manning, N. D., Feb. 16.—Harry and'gave rise to the parable of the Good
Joe Lee have purchased the famous Samaritan, calls for a commitment of
Double EE ranch from W. L. Rich- a man's life to the leadership of the
ards and will take possession in the spirit of God. The second is to lore
spring.' ithe neighbor as the self. These two
A-:ty'V (1
y°u
want and
in a personal adjustment of the indi
vidual's life to God, who only furnishes
a foundation for a satisfactory theory
of morals." The first great command
ment as set forth in the incident that
Faculty Guests Were
Banqueted Tuesday
Nearly 100 members of the faculty
and their friends, met at a reception
and banquet in the home economics
rooms at the State Normal school
Tuesday evening in honor of Dean and
Mre. Vernon P. Squires, of the Univer
sity of North Dakota. A delicious four
course turkey dinner was served by
the young ladies of the department.
Following the meal, President Mc
Farland introduced Dean Squires as
one of the prominent leaders in the
educational field in this state. Dean
Squires responded with an address on
"Some of the Characteristics of Con
temporary Poets." He named several
poets who are attracting attention at
the present time, among them the cre
ator of "Spoonriver Anthology," Alfred
Noyes, Massefield, and Gibson.
The speaker read from each of the
authors and showed the general trend
of their work. He pointed out a new
form of expression, which is neither
poetry or prose, but has something of
the style of both.
The work of each of the authors
named was characterized and criticis
ed by the speaker. Of these
"Spoon River Anthology" secured the
worst arraignment, for it is a work
that is neither rhythmical nor does it
portray uplifting themes. But, from
the other writers, Dean Squires admit
ted he looked for better works.
The attempt of modern poets, it was
pointed out, is all in the same direc
tion, that of leading expression to the
universal brotherhood of man.
Following the interesting and edify
ing address of Dean Squires a social
hour was spent and greatly enjoyed
by all present.
Seed Grain List Ready
Seed lists, prepared by the pure
seed division, showing the names and
addresses of growers having good seed
for sale for sowing purposes, are now
ready and will be sent to all persons
applying for the same. These lists
are only sent on application.
Growers who have good seed for
sale and have not as yet submitted
samples to the laboratory for test,
should do so at once, as it will soon
be too late to get on the list this
year to be of use to those who wish
to buy for sowing purposes.
If you wish your name on this list
send your samples for test and tell
us how many bushels you have.
Address H. L. Bolley, state seed
commissioner, Agricultural College, N.
D.
LOST MAN COMES BACK TO TOWN
Ft. Yates, N. D., Feb. 16—After
searching parties have scoured the
country for over 36 hours searching
for G. M. Allen, horse buyer of Wol-
WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
can not be separated. The lodge calls he to let contracts and make regula
tor a belief in God the church for an tions for the institutions wherever it
effort to love and obey God. The
church keeps a person's relation to
Reopen First National
Bank at Casselton
Fargo, Feb. 16—At a meeting of the
directors of the First National bank of
Casselton it was agreed to reopen the
bank and make up the shortage that is
necessary in order to take the bank
out of the hands of the federal exam
iner.
It is expected the directors will hold
another meeting within the next few
days and set a date for the opening of
the institution. It will take about
$175,000 to cover the shortage and
slow paper before the bank can be re
opened.
Minneapolis, Feb. 15.—Whether the
First National bank of Casselton, N. D.
the recent closing of which was follow
ed by the arrest of its president, R. C.
Kittel and its cashier, W. C. Kittel, is
to be reorganized and reopened, prob
ably will be decided in the next two
or three days.
M. G. Straus, a prominent Casselton
merchant who is interested in the
bank, was in Minneapolis last week
talking over reorganization plans.
P. M. Kerst, federal bank examiner
for the ninth district in whose hands
the governmental end of the reorgani
zation plans lies, is out of town today
but is expected back tomorrow.
Board of Regents Lets
All Contracts in Future
Bismarck, Feb. 17.—The question of
arranging for contracts for the publi
cation of the catalogs, for the janitor
and dormitory supplies, for uniform
regulations regarding the government
of the various educational institutions,
annual budgets, entertainment and lee
ture courses and kindred subjects, will
come up for consideration in a prelim
I inary way before the state board of re
gents at the meeting which began here
this afternoon and will continue the
1
rest of the week.
It is probable that arrangements will
be made for the letting of contracts
about the April meeting.
The board believes that a better
quality of goods can be obtained and
possibly reduced rates through letting
the contracts in this manner than by
permitting each institution -to award
its own. The calls for bids will be so
arranged that local dealers can go
after the contracts in their home
towns, or after those in all the institu
tions if they desire. The contracts
will be on the basis of local delivery at
each institution. The board has found
this plan works successfully in regard
to fuel supplies and believes a more
general" application of the system will
make for economy.
In regard to rules and regulations
f°r
sey, S. D., who was believed to have recognizes there must be a certain
perished when attempting to make amount of individuality and flexibility
eight miles on foot at night, he turn- f°r each, but also believes uniformity
ed up at McLaughlin. He had walked
the various institutions the board
of a
across the Missouri on a business er- fcctive in such a manner than will be
rand.
certain character can be made ef-
beneficial.
The intent of the board appears to
can
out
fully understands the implications of'iting
the ideals of the lodge will never sever
himself from the institution that the
more perfectly insures their attain
ment."
There was a large audience, the Odd
Fellows entering in a body, and the
sermon was listened to with interest.
The choir, under the direction of Mrs.
W. T. Craswell, with Mrs. Blumen
shine presiding at the organ, lead the
singing and rendered a splendid
anthem. A solo by Mrs. Craswell
pleased everyone. Next Sunday the K.
P. lodge will be present to hear the
sermon by this interesting speaker.
done in beneficent way, with-
jn
any
truth and light in the first place, as institution.
a preparation for proper motive andi
inspiration, while the lodge looks only|
to the inspiration of form and social fgCal Teilt Of MaCCab66S
influence. The church strikes for a
dynamic that will hold the man, the
lodge deals little with dynamics other
than precept. The church would move
a man to cry out, '^Create in me a Valley City Tent of the Maccabees
clean heart, O, God, and renew a right held their regular review Tuesday
spirit within me," and this is true to evening in the Odd Fellows' hall,
the message of the Christ. There was a splendid attendance and
"In conclusion there is no place for the meeting was full of enthusiasm,
a conflict between the lodge and The state commander presented five
church. The work of the former may applications. The following were ad
be limited in its scope, and this Is mitted and given the first degree: Ro
men's right. On the other hand, for jan(j jj goui j) John Neustaedter and
those who want life as Christ advo-, Thomas O. Leine. The dramatic work
cated it, there is need for taking the
manner handicapping any
Are Doing Splendid Work
o£ the
wider basis for the individual life, sir Knights Fredrickson, Tooley, Moe,
One may belong to and work in a walker and Hunt, all doing their work
lodge, and be bigger than the aim of perfectly and receiving the compli
the lodge as such. Indeed one who
men
first degree was conferred by
ts of the state commander and vis-
sir
ou
No. 3.
Knights. valley City Tent is
after the state banner and expects
to take it away from Mandan Tent
MAY BOND DISTRICT
Wilton, N. D., Feb. 16.—A special
election will be held here March 28
on the question of bonding the school
district for $10,000 to build an addi
tion to the present school building.
You can reach 1,200 families—nearly
6,000 people every day in the Daily
Times-Reeord. The cost Is slight
Entertained at Cards
Mr. and Mrs. S. P. Ellis entertained
a group of ladies and gentlemen at
their home on Elizabeth street Tues
day night. There were three tables of
500 and the high trophy was carried off
by Mrs. Chas. G. Lund while Mr. Fridd
won the consolation prize. An excel
lent repast was served at the close of
the evening.
Dean Squires Is Guest of
Normal School Tuesday
Dean Vernon P. Squires, of the Col
lege of Liberal Arts at the University
of North Dakota, is the guest of the
State Normal school here today. Dean
Squires addressed the students at the
general exercises this morning and
this evening is to be the honor guest
and principal speaker at a social-pro
fessional faculty meeting in the Home
Economics room.
The speaker said that out of the 24
hours in every day, nature calls for
eight to be devoted to sleep. A move
ment has been gaining momentum for
some time now to limit the number of
hours to be devoted to work to eight
also. What about the remaining eight
hours of the day, the speaker ques­!
tioned.
These Dean Squires asserted should
be spent in leisure not in idleness or
in amusements of a debasing nature,
but rather, in a leisure that will make
for the uplift of the body and the
mind. Such time should be spent in
activities of a constructive nature and
should be given as much importance
as the time spent in work or in sleep.
The address was well given and in
spirational and was well received, as
Dean Squires' addresses always are.
Dr. and Mrs. C. E. Hunt entertained
the university alumni at a luncheon
Tuesday noon at which Dean and Mrs.
Squires were the guests of honor.
There were 15 present and an enjoy­|Miss
able reunion was held. Dean Squires
read a poem which had been read at
the memorial services for Dr. Merri
field at the university last week, and
which was enjoyed by the guests. A
dainty luncheon was served and a so
cial hour spent.
Surprised Mrs. Wertin
Mrs. John Wertin was pleasantly
surprised Tuesday evening at her
home on West Main street by about
28 neighbors and friends who came in
and helped her celebrate her birthday.
Games were played, and music on the
Victrola was enjoyed, after which a
splendid lunch was served. Mrs.
Wertin was the recipient of many use
ful and beautiful presents. All pres
ent had a very enjoyable time.
SLEEP WALKER BADLY INJURED
(Pages 1 to 8.) ESTABLISHED 1«7».
Lusitania Settlement Is
Favorable to the U. S.
1
Dr. Squires took for his subject
Tuesday morning, "Avocational Edu
cation." He said that he would sup
plement that statement often made
"God help the man or woman without
a vocation" with the statement, "Help
the man and woman also, who is with
out an avocation."
1
IN HEAD—MAY LIVE
Wyndmere, N. D., Feb. 16.--While
standing before a mirror combing his
hair, Ed Able, an employe on the}
Case farm two miles southeast of Mc
Leon, was accidentally shot in the head
with an old rusty pistol in the hands
of a four-year-old son of his employer.
,V. iV:.-1'
Washington, Feb. 15.—Germany la
understood to have agreed to the sug
gestion of the United States that she
substitutes the word "recognizing lia
bility" for the word "assumed liabil
ity" in the tentative draft of the com
munication designed to settle the Lusi
tanla case.
The revised draft was received here
late tonight from Berlin. It will be
submitted to Secretary of State Lans
ing tomorrow by Count von Bernstorff,
the German ambassador. From a high
Teutonic authority came the statement
that it was expected the Lusitania case
would be finally settled to the satisfac
tion of the United States and Germany
at a conference tomorrow between
Secretary Lansing and Count von
Bernstorff.
American officials already have said
the two governments were "substan
tially in accord." The ambassador is
understood to be prepared to make the
tentative communication a formal note
setting forth the instructions which
have been given him by the Berlin for-
eign office.
It was also stated that one modifi
cation made in Berlin was not material
and that German officials here did not
consider that the state department
would object to the change.
Officials and diplomats said tonight
that if the communication, as submit
ted tomorrow by Count von Bernstorff,
contained the statement that Germany
recognized the liability for the lives of
neutrals lost in the commission of an
I
jact such as the sinking of the Lusi
'tania, probably the last cause of con
tention has been removed and that the
administration could well proclaim aa
having achieved recognition of all high
principles for which it has contended.
Parent-Teachers'League
Held Excellent Program
The meeting of the Parent-Teachers'
League at the Ritchie, school Tuesday
'afternoon was attended by a large
number and was a very interesting
one. The talk given -by MisB .'Mar
garet Plank on "Music in Education"
jwas exceptionally full of interest and
I good suggestons and it is to be regret
ted that more people could not hear It.
Olive Young read two poems by
Foley, the girls of the first grade and
I some of the third grade pupils each
sang a song. Prof S.tevenson very
beautifully sang Miss Plank's composi
Jtion, "North Dakota." The circle vot
ed to have copies made of Miss
Plank's song and also of a song writ
ten in the interest of Parent-Teachers*
work by Mrs. Higgins, entitled "My
Tribute," and used by the circle.
Harold Schoefter, of the seventh
grade gave "Lincoln's Speech at Get
tysburg" in a splendid manner. The
pennant was won by Miss Sanderson's
room, the first grade.
Railroad Men Endorse
Latest Prohibition Bill
New Leipzig, N. D., Feb. 16.—John' amendment to the constitution of the
Kuck, a farmer near here, is a sleep United States, were unanimously
walker. Recently he jumped through adopted at a mass-meeting of the work
the second story window of his farm ers in the Northern Pacific shops at
home and walked a mile to the Rein- Dilworth Monday. Carl Holm was the
hold Werre home, barefooted and clad chairman of the gathering. This ac
only in a night shirt, and during 20 tion by the railroad is only a begin
degrees below zero weather. He was ning of a nation-wide movement to
awakened by the time he reached the petition \congress to take favorable
place where he was taken in. A action on this bill.
physician summoned found Kuck had! The Shepherd-Gallinger bill proposes
badly frozen his feet and legs and had an amendment to the federal constitu
sustained a deep gash in his abdomen, tion forbidding liquor shipments in In
requiring many stitches when he terstate commerce, the sale and manu
jumped through the window. He was facture of it in any state in the union,
taken to a hospital for treatment. creating a "dry" United States. Much
enthusiasm was shown at the Dilworth
SHOT STRIKES MAN
Resolutions urging congress to pass
the Shepherd-Gallinger bill for an
meeting Monday and the sentiment
in favor of national prohibition is very
strong among the railroad men in this
section of the country.
WILL DAM STREAM
Center, N. D., Feb. 16.—Farmers
along Square Butte creek, who last
The bullet struck Able just below the year planted many thousand trout, will
right ear and penetrated the head.' dam the stream at a dozen places in
It is believed that he will recover un­|the
less complications should set in.
spring to provide plenty of
'-*•1
vurY^jJf'
water
a*. •. -v'.
for the fish. 1
-in
