CI
1
i
ounty Republican
ANEY
FORSYTH, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1916.
Four Pages.
Vol. 21. 'o. 14.
J
Washington Letter
(from Our llvitiilar Com miomltiit. I
mr. Wilson Returns: Presi
dent Wilson has returned from his first
stumping tcur overjoyed at the size of
the crowds which turned out to see
him, apparently unconscious of the in
consistencies in his speeches and the
incongruities between them and tho
course of other members of his Admin
istration during his absence. The
president's enthusiasm ever the crowds
which turned out to hear him recall
the pertinent story of a certain distin
tinguished Republican who was a can
didate for high office in 1900, when
William McKinley was running against
William J. Bryan. Astounded at the
crowds which came to hear him and his
fellow Republican speakers in the West,
this statesman, having completed his
speech, left the platform and addressed
a citizen on the edge of the crowd.
"Did you ever have as big a crowd in
this town before?" He inquired.
"Yes once," was the laconic reply.
"When was that?" "When Bryan
spoke here," replied tha townsman.
Somewhat abashed, the statesman ven
tured another question. "Did you ever
have a bigger crowd in this town?"
he asked. "Yes once." the townsman
again replied. "Why, when was that?"
asked the surprised Republican. "A
bout a year ago," w s the reply. "It
were when we had a breach-ofpromise
case at the Courthouse in the morning
and a circus in the afternoon." The
newspapermen who accompanied ihe
President say that his crowds were
larger but they greatly djabt the sn"
cess of the trip from the political stand
point, or even from the secondary con
sideration, the making of converts to
preparedness.
Political' Diplomacy: One oi
the most grievous sins of the Wilson
Administration has been its conscience
less utilization of foreign affairs for po
litical end and a striking instance of
this has just occun'd. Under the
immediate supervision of Mr. Wi son,
SiCretary Brvan nrgotiai-'d a treaty
with Colombia. In order to reflect on
the Roosevelt Administration .ind in
acquirement of the Panama Canal Zne
the United Stales was m:i;!? by Mr.
Bryan to agre to p-iv to Colombia an
indemnity of 825.000,000 and to m
body in the treaty an apology for the
course i f the United States. Experi
enced statesmaen, including both
Democratic and Republican Senators,
begged the President not to permit the
treaty to be signed, assuring him that
tha Senate never could be induced to
ratify such an agreement and that if he
caused Mr. Bryan to sign it it could
only unwarrantably raise the hopes of
the Columbians and ultimately in their
believing the United States guilty of
bad faith As usual, Mr. Wilson turn
ed a deaf ear to all advice and even as
serted that the treaty contained no
apology. He caused Mr. Bryan to
sign it and the Colombian S-nate rati
fied it. The treaty has oien long
pending in the Foreign Relations Com
mittee of our Senate and has this week
been amended by reducing the indem
nity to $15,000,000 and greatly modi
lying the apology which, despite Mr.
Wilson's denials, it was found to con
tain. Even in this foim there is little
likelihood that the Senate will ratify it,
but already the Colombians are intense
ly indignant. Their Minister is charg
ing the United States with bad faith,
and the President's willingness to play
politics in his dealing with this little
South American country has more than
undone all the good his Administration
may have accomplished in its cfhrts to
cultivate the friendship of the Repub
lics to to the South of us.
Playing Politics With Ger
many: ain it is amoU' Cd from
the Whits House tha- i is "a
grave Tsis" with Gnmaiit. The Ger
man government has reed t indem
nify the heirs of those lost on the
Lusitanii and to giv; assurance
that no mere pasener vessels
will be sunk witn ut removing
non-combatant passengers to
places of safety, and th-
act that
this areeuKDt i due lai more to ie
efficiency of British cruisers and torpedo-boat
destroyers than to any diplo
macy of this Government does not af
fect the end achieved, but President
Wilson has been insisting that Ger
many apparently will not do. Hid
nit the President spoken so recklessly
on his recent tour, he could easily
overlook the matter of a disavowal, in
view of Germany's other concessions,
but by his reckless speaking he has
put himself in a position where he can
not back dovm without humiliation and
there arc many who believe he will
sever diplomatic relations with Ger
many rather than take back his words.
Mr. Wilson has so persistently eaten
his own words addressed to the Mexi
cans that Germany obviously believes
he will do so in this instance, so that
there is, perhaps, more nearly a crisis
now thn there has been on many oc
rasinns when the White House cried,
Wo'f, Wolf."
PREPAREDNESS INSINCERITY:
Just as President Wilson was telling
Kansas and Missouri audiences that
O ir Navy "ought, in my judgment, to
be incomparably the greatest navy in
the world." Rear-Admiral Strauss was
being forced, by persistent questions
from Republican members cf the Naval
Committee, to admit that Sectetary
Daniels had reduced by 812,000,000
the estimate for guns which Admiral
Strauss, as Chief of Ordnance, would
have submitted to Congress. The es
timate of 81.274,000 lor guns to repel
aircraft, Secretary Daniels had struck
out entirely. The insincerity and in
congruity cl an Administration whose
head, talking for publication and to
crowds of citizens, urges that the
American Navy be made the biggest
in the world, while behind the closed
doors of the Navy Department his Sec
retary of the navy is slaughtering the
estimates of competent, naval officers
with a view to deceiving Congress as
to the Navy's needs are likely to con
stitute the chief obstacle to prepared
ness, as they most gravely reflect on
the Administration. And just when
Admiral Strauss was reluctantly admit
ting what Secretary Daniels had done,
the British collier Franz Fisher, was
going to its doom, sunk by a bomb
dropped from a German Zeppelin.
Leap Year
The custom which ordains that a
woman may propose marriage to a man
in leap year dates back seven or eight
hundred years. An act of the Scottish
Parliament, passed about the year 1223,
made it a crime punishable by a fine,
for an uattached man to refuse to be
come a life partner of a woman who
had the courage to "speak ye mon she
liked!"
The custom in a milder form is refer
red to in a work publish, d in 1606
entitled "Courtship Love and Matri
mony."
"Albeit it has now become a part of
the common lawe in regarde to social
relations of life that as often as every
bissextile year doth return, the ladys
have the sole privilege during the
time it continueth of making love un
to the men, which thev doe either by
wordes or by lookes, as to them it
seemeth proper; and moreover, no man
shall be ei titled to the benefit of
clergy who doth in any wise treate her
proposal with slight or contumely."
From The People's Home Journal for
February.
Secretary or the Treasury McAdoo
has secured an additional and emerg
ency appropriation of $50,000 for ex
penditure before July 1 in the rural
sanitation work of the Bureau of health.
II there are any deserving Democrats
who are doctors, there won't be any
difficulty in spending the money.
The way the European War has de
moralized the American rural mail de
livery service is something apalling
We doubt if rural mail conditions are
any worse in the nations engaged in
the conflict in Eur ipe.
Eternal vigilance is the price of
liberty, but the price of gasoline is
somewhat dependent upoo whether
Congress will accept Wilson'i plant
(or new taxation.
Missouri's C!d Constitution
All Missourians will agree with Dr.
Isidor Loeb that the state constitution
framed in 1875 is not adapted to pres
ent cond'tions. There have been
greater changes within the last forty
years than in any other like period in
history. Electric tights, telephones
and trolleys are among the revolution
ary inventions within the period.
There have been almost as great chang
es in distribution of wealth and of people
and in the conception of the proper
functions ol the state and of municipal
ities. The trouble with the old con
stitution is that it is too legislative and
that its specific regulations and restric
tions do not fit present conditions.
Most makers of state constitution seem
to have felt that wisdom was born with
them and that it was likely to die with
them, so they marked out the path
legislatures should follow without de
viation. There have been seventy
four attemgts to correct some of the
faults by constitutional amendments,
but in recent years the very number of
proposed amendments has resulted in
the defeat of practically all. There is
a growing belief that the only remedy
lies in a complete revision of the con
stitution. Many observers of recent constitu
tional conventions have little hope of
the drafting of a short, simple censti
tution, giving the legislature ample
power to deal with new questions as
contemporary judgment thinks best.
Even the severest critics of the obsolete
provisions are sure that they could pro
vide new regulations that would ,work
all time, and unless the average citi
zensif the state organize on other than
ordinary partisan lines, the faddists,
holding the balance of power, will
force a majority of candidates to agree
in advance to the incorporation of their
pet provisions. This was the trouDle
in Oklahoma, where a small body of
men, representing an organized minor
ity of the voters, persuaded 70 of the
112 members of the constitutional con
convention to pledge themselves to
the support ol thirty-nine distinct pro
posals in advance of their election.
But even with this danger, which can
be obviated if the commercial clubs
and other business organizations of the
state throw themselves into the fight
for the election ol able and conscien
tious delegates, Iree to avail themsel
ves ol the experience of other states,
it were better to make the trial than
to remain trammeled by the old con
stitution. II the revised constitution
contained more bad than good, it
could be defeated when submitted.
Globe-Democrat.
Patriotism In The House
Patriotism rose above partisanship in
in the House of Representatives Mon
day when Speaker Clark and Minority
Leader Mann fought shoulder to shoul
der in support of the first two bills of
the general program of preparation of the
national defense. Some may conceive
it to have been partisanship of the
highest order, . but, even accepting
that assumption, it was a rare spectacle i
and showed a recognition of the truth
of the too often neglected adage: "He
serves his party best who serves his
country best." But Mr. Mann's po
sition was apparently more disinteres
ted than this. He might have nag
ged the democrats about their previous
position, of which he had a vivid recol
lection, but he declared: "It is not
the time for crimination and recrimin
ation. It is the time for all to join
hands for that which may come."
The spirit of the leaders was contagi
ous and not a member of the House
voted against the bill increasing ap
pointments to Annapolis by 300.
There was not even a roll call on the
other bill, appropriating $600,000 for
the improvement of Mare Island and
the New York navy yards. A few
memoers, including Majority Leader
Kitchin and Representative Hensley of
Missouri, sat silent, although the for
mer voted for the Annapolis bill.
The action of the House is not con
clusive as to what will happen to the
larger bills, providing for a great In
crease in naval expenditure!.
Nor
does it signify what will be done about
strengthening the army. In the course
of debate there were incidental refer
ences to military preparedness. Sup
port of the continental army plan is
almost negligible in the House. It
may be difficult to reconcile divergent
views as to the character of military
preparedness, but it begins to look as
if Congress will make an honest effort
to enlarge both the army and navy and
provide for aitcraft and coast defenses,
The scene Monday is one which will
linger in the memory, like that when
the Republicans and Democrats united
in placing $20,000,000 at the disposal
of President McKinley to prepare for
the imminent trouble with Spain.
Globe Democrat.
That our export trade in cotton
goods to China has dropped to one
third of what it has been, while that of
Japan has increased nearly nine times,
as shown in a report of Ralph Odell,
of the Department of Commerce, will
surprise nobody who takes into con
sideration the fact that the Japanese
wage scale is about one twelfth that
paid in American mills, and the suc
cess which has attended the efforts ol
Japan in imitating American-made
goods. The loss of trade is bad enough,
but another thing the American manu
facturers have to face is the prospect
that the present huge expansion ol the
cotton cloth industry in Japan may
result in her getting into our domes
tic market and put the home produc
ers out ol business, unless adequate
protection is afforded the industry
here. II Japan can make prices
agreeable to the Chinese there is no
reason why under a Democratic tariff
law, she can not invade the American
maiket.
His Hope will Be Fulfilled
Mr. Wilson told his audience in
New York that he hoped every public
man will get what is coming to him
this year. We do not know whom he
had in mind when he said this but
we have in mind at this writing a pub
lic man who took office not long ago
on a piedee to reduce me cost oi
living. It costs more to live to day
than ever before. He pledged him
self to free passage of the Panama
Canal for American vessels. Our ships
now pay full tolls in the canal. He
pledged himself to the principle of
one term in his office. He is now a
candidate for re election. That pub
lic man certainly will get what is ccm
tag to him.
Senator Tillman, a Democrat and a
defender of President Wilson, says
that the appointment of Brandeis to
the Supreme Betich was a reply to the
Gary dinner to Col. Roosevelt. II the
President's friends choose to take that
view of it, we Republicans can't be
blamed if we accept the interpretation
3ut if that be the case, it is the first
time in our recollection that a presi
dent has let not merely partisan but
personal politics influence the appoint
mentof a Supreme judge.
Wilson's latest somersault lands
him in a position favoring a tariff com
mission. It is to be, of course, "non
nartisan and scientific." In view of
the manner in which Wilson made his
appointments to the Federal Reserve
Board and the Federal Trade Commi
sicn, we suggest that wisdom on his
part would demand that the tariS com
mission bill should be framed so as to
provide, in definite terms, for the ap
pointment of an equal number of Re
publicans and Democrats in its mem
bership. Argentine shipment ol wool to the
United States are increasing at a great
rate nnder the provisions of the Demo
cratic tariff law. From October 1 to
December 23. 1915, 31,396 bales
were shipped to this country, compar
ed with 3,317 bales for the same period
in 1914, both periods being under the
Democratic tariff law, which placed
wool on the tree list. This is an in
crease of 846 per cent.
Evidently President Wilson is not
too proud to fight for a renomioatioo.
County Court Proceedings.
County Court met in regular session
on the 7th day of February at the of
fice of the County Clerk at the court
house in Forsyth, Taney county, Mo.,
with the following officers in attendance
Geo. T. Hicks, Presiding Judge; J. M.
Holliday and J. G. Haskins, Associate
Justices; W. R. Adams, Prosecuting
Attorney; N. D. Boles, Sheriff and J.
R. Gideon, County Clerk, when and
where the following proceedings were
had and made matters of record:
Ordered that the annual settlement
of J. T. Sturman be accepted and a
warrant ordered drawn in his favor on
the special road and bridge fund for
$5.50.
Ordered that the annual settlement
of Abe Cole be approvod, and his ac
count of 58.00 be allowed.
Ordered that the annual report of D.
W. Wyman be accepted.
Claim of Gardner Office Supply Co.
for $47.50, filed, examined and allowed
in open court.
Claim of C. L. Stottle for 55.00, for
serving as memDer ol the county
text book commission, filed, examined
and allowed in open court.
Ordered that the quarterly report of
W. R. Adams be approved.
Ordered that the quarterly report of
W. R. Adams of fees uncollected be
approved.
Ordered that the annual settlement
of Geo. H. Dean be approved and his
account of 825.81 be allowed.
Claim of W. R. Adams for $33.33
filed, examined and allowed in open
court.
Ordered that a warrant for $30.00
be drawn in favor of J. M. Cummings
for the keeping of Boone Smith (or the
quarter ending Jan. 31, 1916.
Ordered that a warrant for $20.00
be drawn in favor of Lee Haggard tor
the keeping of Sherman Logan for the
quarter ending Jan. 31, 1916-
Ordered that a warrant for $40.00
be drawn in favor of R. J. Patterson for
the care of the Clowers family for the
quarter ending Jan. 31, 1916.
Ordered that the annual settlement
of A. V. Floyd be approved and his
account of $13.50 be allowed.
Ordered that a warrant for $6.00 be
drawn in favor of L. S. Roberts for two
wnlf scalps.
Ordered that the annual settlement
of T. C. Anderson be approved and
his account of $1.25 be allowed.
Ordered that a warrant for $30.00
be drawn in favor of B. T. Thurraan
for the care ol Sam Carpentir for the
quarter ending Jan. 31, 1916.
Ordered that the annual settlement
ol A. B. Clemons be approved,
Ordered that the annual settlement
of John Byrns be approved.
Claim of F. V. Baldwin for $44.51
filed, examined and allowed in open
court.
Claim of J. R. Gideon for $61.00
filed, examined and allowed in open
court.
Claim of F. F. Baily for $45.00
filed, examined and allowed in open
court.
Ordered that the annual statement
of fees collected by J. R. Gideon
county clerk, be approved.
Ordered that the quarterly settle
ment of J. R. Gideon be approved.
Ordered that the settlement of J. C
Davis for the month of January be ap
proved and ordered filed.
Ordered that Court adjourn unti
8:30 o'clock tomorrow.
February 8. 1816
Court convened pursuant to adjourn1
ment at 8:30 o'clock, present same s
on the preceding day.
Now on this 8th day of February,
1916, comes C. B. Sharp and claims
the sum of 51250.57 is due the Bran
son Special Road District. It is shown
to the satisfaction of the court that said
sum is due said district, and it is or
dered by the Court that a warrant for
that amount be drawn in favor of F
Cahill, treasurer of said district.
Ordered that a warrant for $416.63
be drawn in favor of F. A. Cahill on
the special road and bridge fund, tame
being the amount due the Branson
Special Road District for taxes collect
ed in said district during 1915-16.
Ordered that a warrant be drawn in
favor of Jesse Chandler for $30.00 for
care of Mrs. Mr A. Henderson for the
quarter ending Jan. 31, 1916.
Ordered that a warrant for $442.89
be drawn in favor of B. J. Butler, on
the special road and bridge fund, be
ing the amount due Taneyville Special
Road District for taxes collected in said
district.
Ordered that a warrant be drawn in
favor of Sara Parnell for 525.00 for the
support of James Gardner and wife for
the quarter ending Jan. 31, 1916.
Claim of Arthur James for $66.69,
filed, examined and allowed in open
court.
Claim ol Arthur James for $163.03,
filed examiued and allowed in open
court.
Ordered that a warrant for $1819.80
be drawn in favor of R. C. Ford, treas
urer of Forsyth Special Road District,
the amount due for taxes collected in
said district.
Ordered that the report of J. C. Da
vis of abstract cf fees be approved and
ordered filed.
Ordered that the annual statement
of fees of U. G. Johnson be approved
and ordered filed.
Claim of W. R. Adams for $83.33,
filed, examined and allowed in open
court.
Claim of Matthews Lumber Co. (or
$2.62, filed, examined and allowed in
open court.
Claim o( David Baird for $4.25, filed
examined and allowed in open court.
Ordered that the annual settlement
of Dan Johnson be approved and his
account of $5.30 be allowed.
In the matter of the road petition of
Andrew Lowry et al, petition filed and
examined by the Court and found to
be in legal form, and it is ordered
that N. D. Wallace is to survey and
mark out said road and the petitioners
are to assist the surveyor on said road
without cost to the county.
Claim of J. W. Bennett for $5.18,
filed, examined and allowed in open
court.
Claim of J. W. Bennett for $150.00
filed, examined and allowed, warrant
ordered on officers fund of 1915, be
ing the amount due county superin
tendent, $100 being the state's part
and $50 the county's part of'salary.
Ordered that the annual settlement
of E. A. Shaum be approved,
and his account of $6.55 be allowed.
Ordered that the annual settlement
of Z. P. Moore be approved and his
account of $1.12 be allowed.
Ordered that a wairant be drawn in
favor of Wm. Melton for 55,00 on the
pauper fund, same being for the care
of W. T. S. Pruitt for the month of
January, 1916.
Claim of Forsyth Mercantile Co, for
$6.15, filed, examined and allowed in
open court.
Claim of Stottle Bros, for $2.60,
filed, examined and allowed in open
court.
Ordered that Court adjourn until
8:30 o'clock tomorrow.
February 9, 1916.
Court convened pursuant to adjourn
ment at 8:30 o'clock, present same as
on the preceding day.
Ordered that a requisition be made
on the state auditor for $100.00, same
being the state's part of the salary of
the county superintendent for the
quarter ending Dec. 31, 1915.
Ordered that the semi-annual report
of Arthur James, coJnty treasurer, be
approved, and the same is therefore
ordered put on the record in full.
Ordered that the old papers as pro
vided in Sec. 8735, R. S. 1909, be
burned by the sheriff.
Now comes W. E. Hall with the
Assessor's books, and the lame are ex
amined and accepted.
Claim of W. E. Hall for $1066.37,
filed, examined and allowed in the sum
of $1059.52.
Ordered that the report of the Kirby-ville-Hollister
Special Road District be
approved and ordered filed.
Ordered that a warrant be drawn in
favor of G. M. Watt for 520.00 same
(Continued on page three)
wMifiiiiaft.ljwgMr,-.
