BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIXNO. 2S6.
UAH KM, VERMONT, TJIURSDAV, FEHRUARV 17, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE
100,000 TAKEN
AT ERZERUM
BY RUSSIANS
It Is Estimated Also That
More Than 1.000 Guns
Were Captured in the
Seizure of Great Turkish
Stronghold in Armenia
RICKETY STRUCTURE
KILLED 10 PEOPLE
TURKS CLAIM CZAR
SPENT 5,000 LIVES
A Turkish Army Is Said to
Be Fleeing to Westward
Through a Difficult Moun
tain Region Fighting on
Western Front Has De
creased in Intensity
Old Opera House in a Texat Town Col
lapsed and Then a Gas Explosion
Set Fire to the Ruins.
Mexia, Tex., Fob. 17. Ten persons
wore killed here lust night in the -ollnpse
of tliu opera house building which was
followed hy a gas explosion and Hre that
fur a lime threatened the business see-
timi of the town. Numerous persons
were injured.
Search continued Into into the night
for other bodies which it wan feared
might lie buried in the ruins, although it
was believed that all persons in the
building had been qceoiinted for.
The ojera hoiiHe, which was old and
seldom used, had been opened for an art
exhibition for the public schools, winch
gave promise of being largely attend
ed. I lie spectators had begun to nssem
hie, when the structure gave Way, bury
i ml' them in debris and heavy timbers
The confusion whs intensified by a gas
explosion which followed almost immedi
stely, This caused fire in the wreckage,
I he flames spread to other buildings, in
eluding the Farmers' State bank, and
so rapid was the progress of the lire that
it seemed certain to consume the town
After four hours the fire was put under
control.
WEST EUROPE
TORN BY STORM
Parts of France Seriously
Damaged by a Ter
rific Gale
AGREEMENT
ACCEPTABLE
ON LUSITANIA
FLOODS DRIVE DUTCH
FROM THEIR HOMES
With the capture of Era-erum by the
Russians, interest in the war operations
shifted its center to Armenia, Persia and
Mesopotamia, where the campaigns are
expected to bo notably influenced by the
fall of the Turkish stronghold. The
Turkish official statement declares that
thi Russians in tho three days' fighting
preceding the fall of Erzemum lost 5,000
dead.
Unofficial advices from Pctrograd state
that a Turkish army is fleeing west
ward from Erzerum through a difficult
mountain region. The official newspaper
Messenger of Pctrograd estimates the
Turkish garrison captured at Erzerum
at least 100,000 men. It also estimated
that more than 1,000 guns were taken.
An official announcement from Con
stantinople says the losses of one of the
British expeditions in Mesopotamia, in a
battle with the Turks near Batiha, west
of Korna amounted to 2,000 officers and
men.
The fighting on the western front has
CRONES ALLEGED
TO BE IN BOSTON
Man Wanted in Connection with Soup
Poisoning Case in Chicago Is Said
to Have Been Seen.
Boston, Feb. 17. The police are inves
tigating the report that Jean Crones
wanted in Chicago in connection with
the alleged po'soning of soup at a ban
quet to Archbishop Mundelein, has been
seen in this citv.
According to the report, a man, who
said he formerly worked with Crones in
Chicago, saw someone whom be claimed
he recognized as Crones near the South
station. When he spoke to tfum, the man
told him to mind his business and hur
ried toward South Boston. Karly to-day
the police had found nothing to substan
tiate the report.
ASKS McCALL'S SUPPORT.
Bird Appeals for Roosevelt to Massachu
setts Governor.
Boston. Feb. 17. Charles Sumner Bird,
who has been announced as a Roosevelt-
pledged candidate for delcgfite-atlarge
to the Republican national convention
addressed a long telegram to Governor
MCall urging him to take no part in
any movement counter to objects of the
Falling Chimneys Killed and
Injured Many in
Paris
Paris, Feb. 17. A gale swept Fiance
yesterday which caused serious damage
in Paris and the provinces. A number
of shipwrecks were reported and channel
service was delayed and at some ports
wa entirely interrupted. Many tele
graph wires and trees were blown down
and several persons were killed or in
jured in Paris by falling chimneys.
Hearts from the front describe tho
weather of the past 48 . hours as the
worst since the war began. The gale was
particularly severe in the Belgian dis
trict, where house were unroofed, trees
uprooted, large areas flooded and many
injured.
Amsterdam, via Tendon, Feb. 17. A
northwesterly storm is blowing with un
diminished violence and the situation is
ritical. Reports of damage are causing
grave apprehension. Floods are driving
people from their homes and the breaking
of the dyke around the west end of Un
der lake at Aalsmeer, eight miles south
west of Amsterdam, seems inevitable.
CHELSEA GIRL HAD
A NARROW ESCAPE
Miss Margaret Hall, Visiting in Melrose,
Mass., Was Penned in By Flames
and Was Thrown from Window
by Firemen.
.Melrose, .Mass., Feb. 17. Miss Miirgn
ret Hull of Cliches, Yt., had a narrow
escape from death by fire yesterday
morning in the home of her relatives, Mr.
and Mrs. Aimer A. Hall, 11 Cliir street,
Melrose Highlands, whom she is visit
ing. About 2 o'clock Mis. Hull was aroused
from tdeep and maw smoke pouring int.)
the rooms, followed by sheets of flames.
With her husband, she ran out of the
house with their two children.
Mr. Hall went back into the house to
get Miss Hall. TIih bedroom door was
shut, and he kicked it open, and was
Inven back bv the dense smoke. 1 he
flames bad entered this room and the
clothing on the lied had become ignited.
Some one sent in mi alarm, and while
f 1 1 ., 1 1 M., ir.. . .....
-ii. imti una jiinnmu ctnj emu i. iu ' Vi m , - - - -rmi -
into tho bedroom, the firemen arrived on ft U AllKf Jii lUlMJMUJNll I
the scene. Chief Joseph Edwards sent
a squad of men into the room where Miss
Hall was in bed.
They got into the room none too soon,
for it was tilled with smoke and the
bed was in flames. Owning a window
ot the room, which was on' the first
floor, the firemen carried Miss Hall to
the window.
There happened to be more than two
feet of snow piled tip in front of the
window, and the firemen, taking her by
the arms, let her drop into the snow. She
was unhurt by the drop, but her hands
and face were slightly burned and she
had swallowed considerable smoke. I
She was cared for by a neighbor and
lot lies provided, for she was unable to
save anything.
11 COMMERCE RAIDERS.
But Secretary of State Lan
sing Asks from Germany
Assurances That It Will
Not Carry Out Policy of
Sinking Merchant Ships
Carrying Defensive Arm
ament
GERMANY UNWILLING
The Question of What Con
stitutes Defensive Arma
ment May Be Considered
Later, According to Sug
gestion of United States
Government
MUST USE CHECK
LIST ON REFER
ENDUM VOTES
GUESTS KEEP ON EATING.
"liberal wins of the nartv." Mr. Bird,
lessened in intensity probably because who had been prominent as a Progressive
of the prevailing bad weather, and sim-1 until he turned to the support of MeCall
ilar conditions exist in Russia.
RUSSIAN VICTORY DUE
TO DUKE NICHOLAS
Deposed Head of Czar's Troops on Rus
sia's Western Front Led His Sol-'
diers into Great Strong
hold of Erzerum.
-London, Feb. 17. Erzerum, Turkey's issue."
chief city in Armenia, is in the hands of
the Russians. Heavy assaults by the
Russians against tho long line of de
tached forts protecting the city, lasting
over a period of five days and described
by Grand Thike Nicholas, the Russian
commander-in-chief, as "unprecedented,"
have resulted in the capture of the fort
ress. A Pctrograd despatch says Grand
Duke Nicholas has telegraphed the em
peror as follows:
las the Republican candidate in the last
state campaign, said:
I understand now that the machine
element of the Republican party seeks
to induce vou to joiu with them in a
movement to send to Chicago a dclega
tion hostile to Colonel Roosevelt's candi
daey. I urge vou not to do o."
Mr. Bird declared that Llihu Root had
correctly stated the only issue in the
coming national campaign "The weak
ness of the Wilson foreign policy," and
that Colonel Roosevelt was the only man
"sure of beating President Wilson on the
ASK RUMANIA
RESERVISTS IN
SALONIKI TO RETURN
Consul There Requested Them tox
Back to Own Country, Says
Havas Agency.
Go
X'aris, Feb. 17. A Havas dispatch filed
st. Athena vesterrlfiv Ban the Rumanian
. J i . ,1 i, I i . ..ft J .
,uu u n me "y n.."ps "' consul at Sakmiki has invited all re
servists remaining in that city to re
turn to Rumania immediately.
"NOT TO BE TRUSTED."
Brandeis Characterized by Moorfield StO'
rey, Boston Attorney.
Washington, D. C, Feb. 17. Moorfield
Storev. a Boston attorney, charged lie
the army of the Caucasus such great help
that Erzerum has been taken after five
davs of unprecedented assault. I am in
expressibly happy to announce this vie
torv to your imperial majesty.
Unofficial reports early in the present
month said the German fielil marshal
Von Her Goltz, with 80,000 men were be
sieged in the. city with provisions for
:nlv a fortnight
The capture of Erzerum is regarded as , l"rr;V . T , Kllu"" gu
f i ; .., ., ;tfore the judiciary sub-committee of the
i- . j. i i j;J ; n ,r-,t; ... Senate to-day that Louis I). Brundeis,
rnilini.o roans leanim- in nil n rm. m. . '
Over those to the southeast and south, it 41,0 'f lc it s nominee for the supreme
will be possible for the Russians now to " n'h' hf l, wr.ptk ,the
fiht th.ir -vv tnvrarH their mm,fri- New England railroad in 1892
r- ... ,., T, : ' .,j and 1 81(3, with the result that it was ab
r,t-J i., n.,rW..t ,A w lwm or sorbrd by the New Haven.
I j tl, t i i,...i..,, ,l ' ' I Asked as to Krandcis reputation as
Iiroceeu soul II urnniu imuouu, ".(J mi" I e- I , ... . , ... ... , , .
lief f the British bottled tin in Kut-el- wyn, Storey said: I think bis rep
Amara, on the Tigris, southeast of Bag
dad.
nation in the Boh ton bar is that he is
verv capable and very energetic many,
Tim imniAilinlA rrtW nf M. P.inn and if necessary, to advance objects, he
victory on the situation in Persia and noiscrupiu.iu.ua io mrw.uu nor w
Mo.,W,.mii it nrr..l..motif! hnwovnr tO be trusted.
tor despite the roans me country is
mountainous and there is still much
ground to le covered something over
200 milen before the lake Lrumiah dis
trict of Persia is reached, and over 000
miles before a junction with the British
at Kut-el-Amara could be formed.
NORWICH CADET INJURED.
ITALIAN DEAD
STREW BATTLEFIELD
In Front of the New Austrian Positions
in Rombon District, According to
Austrian Official State
ment. Vienna, vi Iondon, Feb. 17. .An Aus
trian official statement, dated ve-t.-rdav,
announces the eighth attack by Malum
outpoMS on the Aii'tro-Ifiingarian J'm-
tion-. on .taverevk repulsed. The
Matement adds that the ground in front
if the new Austrian position in the
Komhn dodrirt i covered with Italian
dead.
Exposion in Chemical Laboratory Injured
Eyes.
Brattleboro. Feb. 17. Merrill ('. Has
kell, son of W. E. Haskell of Brattleboro,
was brouglit here yesterday afternoon
from Norwich university with both eves
injured as the result of an explosion in
the chemical laboratory. He was taken
last evening to Springfield to a specialist.
He was a graduate last year of the Brat-
tlelioro high school and entered Norwich
last fall.
Said to Be Getting Ready for Dash from
Canary Islands.
Mobile, Ala., Feb. 17. Eleven German
tcamers laid up in Canary island ports
have lieen secretly armed for commerce
raiding and are preparing to make a
dash for the open sea, according to a
statement made here yesterday by Cap
tain F. E. Magune of the American
schooner Edgar W. Murdock, who savs
he delivered 2,1 00 tons of coal to Ger
man agents in TeneritTc and saw it load
ed into the bunkers of the interned Ger
man vessels. The Murdock is in port
here.
Captain Magune refused to give the
names of the agents who chartered his
schooner to transport the cargo of coal
from Norfolk. The coal was consigned,
he said, to a Spaniard employed by a
German eonl company in Santa Cruz,
Teneriffe. It was transferred to light
ers and immediately taken alongside the
German ships and loaded into bunkers.
The Murdock left -Norlolk on Oct. 2D
with 2.100 tons of cob! on which the
freight was prepaid. Near the northwest
coast of Africa she was overhauled bv a
British man of war which searched the
ship and allowed her to proceed. The
same afternoon, Captain Magune said,
the cruiser returned and required him
to lay to, while the ship's, papers were
taken aWird the cruiser and examined.
Several hours lafer an officer from the
cruiser returned with the ship's papers
and told Captain Magune tlmt he could
continue his voyage.
I had the freight prepaid and left Nor
folk-intending to deliver the coal to the
man to w hom it was consigned. That he
was a Sianiard in. the employ of a Ger
man coal company at Teneriffe I did not
know until I readied mv destination.
No time wus lost in unloading my
argo on barges which were sent straight
to the sides of the German vessels. The!
flrt ship in sight was the Cap Ortega,
a big passenger liner of some five thous
and tons. ' She looked like she had just
come out of a ship yard, presenting a
ship shape appearance, and I was told
by shipping men th:t all the German
steamships in Teneriffe kept full crews
aboard and appealed to be ready to sail
any moment their masters desired."
Although the Roof is Burning Over Their
Heads.
Newport, R. I., Feb. 17. The cupula of
the Perry house and part of the miner
door of that hotel were on fire yester
day w hile on the street floor guests dined
without excitement.
Spectators at a moving picture shot
in the opera house, adjoining the hote,
left the building in orderly fashion, and
did not learn until they reached the
street, the real cause of the sudden (lis
missal.
The fiames caused considerable damage,
estimated at almut $,( Mi, on the upper
floor, but were prevented from extend
nig below.
MANY INJURED
IN TRAIN WRECK
Northbound Seaboard Air Line Special
Was Wrecked it Bellwood
Plantation, Va.
Richmond, Va., Feb. 17. The Seaboard
Air Line S-K-cial, northbound, was
wrecked to-day at Bellwood Plantation
between here and Chester. Early reports
said that many people were injured but
none was dead. Details of the wreck
were not available.
Washington, I). C, Feb. 17. Secretary
of State Lansing to-day accepted the
Lusitania agreement as acceptable to the
United States in so far as it relates to
that case but awked Count Von Bern
storff, the German ambassador, for as
surances that Germany will not carry
out its policy of sinking merchant ships
without warning to the liners even if
they carry defensive armament, the ques
tion of what constitutes defensive arma
ment to be determined later in a way
not vet agreed upon.
It was suggested that the United
States may propose that guns mounted
on the stern of ships and capable of be
ing swung from l. to 30 degrees in uith
ome within 'that
Attorney General Barber Also States
That Same Qualifications for Voters on
Those Two Issues Shall Apply as
in the Annual Town Meetings.
Secretary of State Guy W. Bailey,
who was in Barre to-day on official bus
iness as an insurance commissioner, still
ed in response to mi inquiry that he had
received an opinion from Attorney Gen
eral 1L (i. Barber in which the latter
declared the law contemplates the use of
checklist in the forthcoming referen
luin vote on the statewide, prohibition
law ami on the direct primary law and
that the same qualification for voters on
those two propositions shall apply as in
annual town meeting. Incidentally, it
may be stated that those who failed to
pay their taxes prior to Feb. 15 are not
eligible to vote on those two referen
dum.
Attorney General Barber rendered the
opinion on request from Secretary of
State Bailey, and in the course of it he
asserted that "for the purpose of voting
under the two acts above referred to the
law contemplates the use of a checklist
No, 111 of the acts of 1015 defines who
are qualified to vote in annual tow
meetings and clearly provides that
male citizen 21 years of age, who Ifas
taken the freeman s oath and whose list
including a jll is taken in a town at the
annual assessment preceding a town
meeting, and whose tax or taxes due
such town were paid prior to the 15th
day of rebruary preceding such town
meeting is qualified to vote
"If one has omitted to pay his taxes
in accordance with the provisions of this
act he would not be a legal voter in such
meeting, and therefore would not have
a right to vote upon either of the two
acts above referred to."
This opinion by Attorney General Bar
her will serve to clarify a situation which
was considerably in doubt throughout
tne state.
THREE POINTS
TO BE TAKEN UP
At Investigation of Cream
and Milk Transportation
in New England
CHAIRMAN McCH:
OUTLINE" r
LANS
Vermont Stat. .range Rep
resented al Hearing
in Boston
LARGE INSPECTION ATTENDANCE.
er direction migtit come
class.
FURNISHING LIQUOR CHARGED.
John Mosetti Arrested in Montpelier and
Put Under $300 Bail.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Transportation of tan bark, the first
in two seasons, began t"dav from
Orange and other bill towns where the
recent fall of snow has given a new im
petus to lumbering operations. A team
ster who registered at the freight yard
to-day with the first load assured a
Times repsentative that a large quan
tity of tan bark remains to be shipped
if the sledding continues.
News of the fall of Erzerum, the chief
city of Turkish Armenia, is received with
peculiar interist by people in the Barre
Syrian colony, inasmuch as many resi
dents of the community here are former
residents of the district in which Krzer-
um is located, and it was to the captured
city tnat most oi tne iiarre Syrians
turned for transportation instructions
when about to start for America. Dis
patches state that S'VHM) Turks, who
were forced back to Frzeruin bv the Rus
sians last month., are locked up in the cit v
with not more than two weeks' pro
visions on hand. For many centuries
Krrerum has Wn a Turkl-h stronchold.
Harmiin review, .No. I. Vt. B.
M.,
John Mosetti of Montpelier was ar
retted in that city this morning on a
warrant charging him with furnishing
liquor. The warrant was issued by
Grand Juror Theriault. Mosetti was ar
raigned in Montpelier city court before
Acting .Itidt'e L. C. Moody and liail was
fixed at $3ih), which the respondent was
unable to furnish and so went to jail.
Walter Burke was arrested this morn
ing on a charge ot committing a breach
of the peace on Louis Gould. He was
placed in jail. Louis Brunelle of East
Montpelier, arrested yesterday for a
first otftflse of intoxication, pleaded
guilty and was fined $5, with costs. Wil
liam l.apan pleaded guilty before Judge
Harvey yesterday alternoon to the
charge of breach of the peace1, and his
rustr wan ci'iiiimirii hit BCIlience.
WAS HELD AS SPY SUSPECT.
Winooski Young Man Had Thrilling Ex
perience at Canadian Line.
Winooski, Feb. 17. Emery De forge of
upper j-jist Allen street, who was de
tamed at Granby, P. O., Sunday by the
cniet ot police suspected of being a Ger
man spy, nas been released upon inves
tigation. A telegram came to his fa
ther, Henry Deforge, Sunday night stat
ing mat lie Had been detained there.
What change he bad in bis possession
was taken away from him but after in
vestigation it was given back to him. He
was on his way to Waterloo. P. Q., to
spend Sunday. After be had paid the
lawyer lie was Ictt without any money.
Young Deforge works for the Porter
Screen company and is about 23 years
old.
Rutland's Labor Unrest.
Every person in Rutland and vicinity
will earnestly hope that the tarious ru-
A. O. T. mr afloat as ti industrial disturbance
held a most enjoyable gnd profitable will come to naught. The indu-tries in
Fight Postponed.
Chicago, Feb. 17. less WilUrd and
Tom J.'n-n. bis marui?fT. d.vi IH Tester-
lay that the pr. i.f for-ut -sith Frank I
Matter of Opinion.
Mary!"
Father's voir rolled down the stairs
and into the dim and silent parlor.
e. papa, dear."
Ask that young man if he has the
time.
A moniptit of silemt.
"Yes. Oirje has hi match with him."
'Then ak bi'n what is the time."
'He says it is rpa.
'Then ask bim if be dix-.n't think it ! Faster.
bout Ix-dtime."
regular meet inn last evening, w hen pl.tng t ujs section of Vermont liae not suf-
were oiM-uei !r a numlier of i.roici N lercd from the country-wide business
shortly to tie undertaken by the review, depression of the past two or three years
Seven new memlsrs were initiated in thejto the extent tnat manufacturing plants
pre-ence of ."(' members. Arrangements gem-rally have in t her sect ions. Neither
were made for a sleigh ride to be held ' ha ve t hey benefitted to t he extraordinary
n the evening of Tuesday, Feb t-M, when extent that a comparatively tew cities
niemls-r of the review and their guests (hate under the unnatural stimulation of
will go to- I'laintield for a rhi ken-pie j war orders. The making cf munitions
suprwr. n the following eveninir there and other thincs required in Europe's
will tie a public .VO party with tables for Jnwels'nun of H.hmI has been nitt-Oiroom-whit
or those who do not care to play ibke in s altered sections, whiih will feel
the oilier game. Plans are lo in the ;ever.-lv tie rra.tion when the war le-
j making lor a lmar to be held soon after inlands are i.er. It is hoi-, ai,J , xpert-
After the business niei t'tig. a ;ed that the HiilNud institutions will c n-
gr.-rth. There is.
lut-re w ii that tire '
piano , w is-i counci will prevail among our
I pleasurable program was rendered as M. jtiiiue in a healthy
(lows: iifni oio, ns I-,." I-Min. c- jltierelore. the ino-t
Another moment of silenn.
"He ay. ii.' the sih.-ry nuke an- ,'cnmpanied hvMi Luth Xclon
noiinfl. imp-r"n.!y. 'he says thu he solo, Ms t.l.i.i. s Khind : voel o(. V. ( people interested either . employers or
rarelv pi, to o,i iiciore I. hut it tn ter 1 ! n. s.wrirsnie.1 bv VV , A. ! eat- ;eni lov. to the rn 1 that our
lorn oi I insmirg must be postpon! ! tit him l-tx i a msii.-r ot pr nl pr-f- HjiMt re'rehm nt w.re served lv turip activities will not re-vive any
for at Vast two eks from Ihe d.de jerein-e rrn-relv. and that il l e w fre m ( t he J efnry rir le un.if r I he ii xei I ion f ) rt 1 k. T '. wle-le rMiiniii-eiv is hurt
..riginslly t. Mar. h . Martfe 25 i the I your j lace le nM gn now if le felt, Mrs. tanni U.ia and M. Atit.,e Ger 'when an industry is Ii.i4 - Rutland
It wasetuted authoritatively that Ger
many, because of its unusual position,
cannot and will not accept the sugges
tion of the United States as it now
stands, that liners carrying guns shall
lie immune from attack under previous
assurances.
Count von Bernstorff told Secretary
Lansing yesterday it was his personal
opinion that in the naw aubiuariua cam
paign his government intended to abide
by .its promise not to sink unresisting
liners without warning, given in the
Arabic case and referred to in the Lusi
tania agreement. Mr. Lansing informed
the ambassador that such a declaration
from his government would be highly de
sirable.
The ambassador .suggested the possi
bility of postponing the effective date of
the new submarine campaign if it would
give time for negotiations to clarify tn
confused situation but the secretary did
not commit himself.
This is the situation now:
As a result of the correspondence in the
Lusitania and Arabic cases the United
States had rested secure in the belief
that the future conduct of submarine
warfare on humane lines and in accord
ance with the established principles of in
ternational law, modified somewhat by
the new conditions developed during the
war, had been assured. The state de
part ment had been proceeding lately on
the theory that all that was necessary
t'i be done in the Lusitania case was
to cover the past; not the future.
Now the Austro-German notice of in
tention to sink armed merchantmen ap
parently is regarded as having destroyed
that assurance, and it is deemed useless
to try to adjust a past issue while the
future is left open with the almost cer
tain assurance of new incidents arising
that may lead to the miwt serious re
sults.
The international political situation in
Germany is regarded here as making the
situation grave. In-cause the von.Tirpitz
element is understood to be re-asserting
itself with considerable effect and the
subject requires delicate handling be
cause an upset of the von Bethmann
Hollweg administration would be regard
ed as unfavorable .in its effect.
What form the next step in the nego
tiations will lie is not disclosed, but there
are strong indications that the German
government will be asked to assure the
United States that merchant ships armed
for defensive purposes onlV will be ex
empt from unwarranted attack.
From German sources came the state
ment that it was quite probable Berlin
would give such assurances, but that in
loing so it would request information
as to what the United States considers
lefensive armament. Extended negotia
tions may follow on that point.
State department officials said they
considered the situation where it was
several weeks ago, when it was described
as grave. Diplomatic correspondence win
continue with Austria a well as with
Jermany. Austria has given assurances
in the .ineona case, wnicn mis govern
ment has no intention of relinquishing.
The United States will, of course, con
tinue its efforts to induce the entente
allies to disarm their merchantmen and
in the event of their refusing the state
department probably will further limit
the character of armament which it con
siders defensive. In that event arma
ment alsne the set limit would cause
ships having it alsiard to lie con-iderej
warships and treated accordingly in
American ports.
There Were 73 Knights Templar of St.
Aldemar Commandery.
Grand commandery officers, past com
manders of Burlington and Mount Zion
eommanderies, and nine past commanders
of the local commandery were partici
pants in the annual inspection of St. Al
demar commandery. No, 11, Knights
Templar, in the Masonic asylum last
evening. Apart from the inspecting offi
cers and their assistants, i3 knights aflil
lated with St. Aldemar commandery were
in line during the evening. Butli chap
ter, Order of the Eastern Star, had
charge of the substantial 6 o'clock din
ner, which was served by a committee of
the ladies. Nearly eighty knights Avere
entertained during the dinner hour and
it was neanng 8 o clock before the in
spection began.
Edward L. Bates of Bennington, emi
nent grand commander of Vermont, was
assisted in the inspection by George F.
Root of Newport, inspector general, and
William II. Herrick of Montpelier, the
grand junior warden. Regrets w-ere ex
pressed over the inaibilty of Dr. fc. H.
Whituker of Barre, grand generalissimo,
to be present. Following the exercises
of inspection, Grand Commander Bates
congratulated the St. Aldemar knights ;
on their excellent showing and spoke in
terestingly on certain phases of the cere
monial. Other speakers were Inspector
General Root and Rev. W. J. M.. Beat-tie.
Boston, Feb. 17. -An investigation inta
the methods of transportation and rates
on milk and cream in New England was
la-gun to-day by Chairman McChord o
the interstate commerce commission.
Chairman McChord explained that three
mail questions will be considered, metl"
oils of milk and cream transportation,
the rates from the dairies to the large
cities and whether a higher rate should
be charged for cream than for milk.
All the railroads of New England, the
state granges of Maine, New Hampshiro
and Vermont, several state public service
commissions and many wholesale milk
dealers are represented at the hearing.
321 VISITED SCHOOLS.
Invitation to "Parents' Day" Brought
Out Encouraging Attendance.
In order to encourage school visiting
bv parents, Sunt. White of the Barre
public schools decided to set aside one
lay for parents day in all the eight
buildings of the city. That day was yes
terday. During the forenoon and after
noon a total of 821 parents visited the
schools and witnessed the work being
done by the pupils. Almost all the visit
ors were women. The teachers in tho
various rooms laid no special plans for
the day but went through the daily rou
tine, of the school work in order to give
the visitors as accurate an idea as pos
sible of what is being done. The parents
showed considerable interest in the work,
and Supt. White and the teachers were
much encouraged at the large attend
ance.
The Mathewson school building, the
largest in the city, was visited by the
largest number of people, while the high
school had the smallest number. The
attendance by buildings was as follows:
Mathewson, 77; Brook street, 58; Lin
coln, 67', North Barre, 45; Avers street,
30; wifrd five, 24; Summer street, 21;
Spaulding, 9.
CLAIMS HE HAS ALIBI.
SEEK PASTOR'S RETURN.
Herbert Smith Arrested for Alleged As
sault at Graniteville.
Hedding Methodist Society Votes Unani
mously for It.
State conference delegates from the
Hedding Methodist church received in
structions at the fourth quarterly con
ference last evening to request the re
turn of the present pastor, Rev. E. F.
Newell, for another year. A motion to
file these instructions witfh the delegation
that will represent the Barre church at
the Vermont conference next April was
adopted unanimously at one of the most
largely attended quarterly conferences in
ome time. Rev. Ralph F. I-owe of St.
fohnsburv, district superintendent, pre
sided and favorable action on the rcten
tion of Rev. Mr. Newell came in the
course of an evenings business whicn
included reports from every department
of the church.
Most encouraging reports were received
from the superintendent of the Sunday
school, C. S. Andrews, and the president
of the ladies' and pastor's union, Mrs.
E. C. Glysson. Much has lieen accom
plished also in other lines of endeavor,
as was indicated by reports from Mrs.
Adelbert I. Skinner, who spoke on the
achievements of the junior league, and
Glenn Carpenter, who reported for the
Epworth league. Another important
phase of church work was descrilwd in nn sartwcll
interesting report by Emory Newhall,
who is at the head of the Methodist boy
scouts. For the trustees of the church,
E. R. Davis reported, and the treasurer
of the trustees. W. II. Conner supplement
ed his own report to that of E. M. Lvon,
the church treasurer.
Sought by the authorities of Barre
Town and the state since last fall, Her
bert Smith, formerly employed as a
quarryman on Millstone hill, was arrest
ed yesterday by Deputy Sheriff Dennis
Donahue on a warrant issued at the re
quest of State's Attorney F. E. Gleason,
it being alleged that the man figured in
an ansault on one Alex Sartwell, a son-in-law
of .lames K. Pirie, the well known
quifrryman. When arraigned before Mag
istrate 11. W. Scott in city court last
night Smith entered a formal plea of
not guilty to a charge of assaulting
with intent to nj and was remanded to
a cell at police headquarters in default
of $1,000 hail.
The state's attorney was unable to
come to Barre to-day and at his request
Grand Juror William Wishart inter
viewed the prisoner. Smith reiterated
his purpose to have a hearing and reject
ed any suggestion that he waive examina
tion, inasmuch as the case is beyond the
jurisdiction of a focal magistrate for
final action. A hearing, then, has been
set for Friday morning at 0 o'clock.
Smith is without counsel and intimates
that he has an alibi which will effective
ly disprove the allegations of the state.
Smith's arrest is the outgrowth of a.
suspicion which arose early in Novem
ber, 191.5, when Sartwell, while on his
way home from Barre one night, was at
tacked by a man who had asked for &
ride. Smith is said to have disappeared
from Graniteville at the time of the al
leged attempted assault. According to
the storv related to the authorities by
he had been passing a few
NEW DIVORCE ENTRIES.
A Large Number Have Been Entered in
Washington County Court.
hours in the city and was on nis way
home to Graniteville when a man asked
him for a ride. He complied with the)
stfanger's request and just as the team
was passing through a stretch of wood-
n the quarry road. Sartwell is allefred
to have said, the stranger turned onjliim,
by clutching his throat. The pair en
gaged in a desperate hand-to-hand en
counter with the result that both rolled
out of the carriage into the highway.
There the stranger, thinking he had
orsted the driver, started to go through
There have been a large numlier of di- his pockets. Sartwell reported that h
, i - .i ... -ii v. ! - i i.:- T.....- - i - i .i.A
A. K. OF C. CORPORATION.
Bennington Council Formed Into, a Home
Association.
vorre cases entered in the county clerk's
office for trial at the March term of
Washington county court, recent entries
being as follows: Vernon K. Bylaw vs.
Avis Douglass Bylaw. W ishart for the
petitioner; Mae lllield vs. J.uther I- H
tield. I-aird for the petitioner; Louise M.
Stacey vs. Oscar Staccy. Jackson for pe
titioner; Ora Johnson vs. Oeorge R.
lohnson. Carver for petitioner; Margaret
Keed vs. Bert A. Reed. Ihenaillt A
Hunt for petitioner; f hilonienia Mar-
ilh- vs. Joseph Marville. I.nis; Inc S.
Pinnev . RoiH-it S. I inney. Ijtird:
KatheVine A. Jackson v. William H.
Jackson. Carver: Mildred I-anib va. lis
ter I-amb, Theriault i Hunt; Mary C.
lireene s. Fred V Greene. Carver: May
Kmrrsii s. Fred C. l.mers.m, Marshall.
Clerks' Notice.
licnnington council. No. 3. Knights
of t oliiinhii of Itetiiungton. has become
. late l as a corpora t e in under the
name of the Bennington Knii-l.ts of Co- j Friday, the lth. at 7 p. m.
Iun.hu Home a . i t ion. There is no , requested to le n tim" on
capital stmk and tii.re are 14 tub-s-.-ib- j nu us n pl.t. Ifc.n't for-;, t renter.
There will be a resu'sr meeting of 1
cal i'll. R. C. I. P. A., in Wort urn ball.
t lerks are
ii-o-u,t of
Per
1. mi.
Ere.
recovered his wises and renewed the
counter-attack on the stranger, beat him
off long enough to reuain a seat in the
carriage, and then drove home. That
night be reported the affair to the au
thorities. Barre Town officer- communi
cated with the state's atorney and for
several days a still hunt was conduct i
for sii-ns of the alleged assailant.
Smith is quoted as saying ttiat be leffc
for New Hampshire before the alleged
assault took place. latterly he has been
employed in the talc mines near Water-
bury, be says. The respondent is aroii'i 1
2 vear old. onmarri.-d. and is fairly
well known in 'Graniteville. where be h-a
been employed at divers times as a.
ouarry hand. It is said that Sartwc't,
when confronted bv Smith, was unabl"
p..!tielv to identify him as the strang
er who asked him for a ride.
Being Urged To Ron For Alderman.
Friends of Henry Alexander are ife
!um t- run f. r a Mr rnrtan in the it
rd mi'l t i r stale that Vi. Ah xan r
is i'ni'b T:r- the I-tattT.
ribab!e date.
le
If
-IlarpT' l't.
ri L
New a.
-ec
