LAYTON
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1916.
NO. .6
TOEN
t I I
Union County to have
: Farm Demonstrator
' : IF THEY WANT IT
That Union County should have a
farm demonstrator is beyond the ques
tion of any one who has given the
question any study at all and who has
the least knowledge of what it means
to' bo up to the minute in Farming
Efficiency. The matter of the price
is not to be considered when we know
that there is not the least probability
or even a posibility of it exceeding a
reasonable allowance as compensation
for the same. The diversity of soil,
the fact that there Is a diversity of
crops grown here and the fact that
through the experiment stations in
this western country there are new
and more suitable crops grown every
yer.r that are adapted to the climatic
and other conditions that exist in this
as well as other parts of the country
rneVia .the roed of the Farm Expert
moro evident. The one that would at
tempt to s:iy at this time that our
experiment stations and our farm de
monstrators and our information in
extensive and intensive farming lines
is all humbug and are intended only
to give some one a job, is simply ex
posing his own ignorance and not
criticising our demonstration work and
our slide institutions. When ve came
west a few years ago, we were like
the majority oí people that come here,
we were not acquainted evith the
crops that were common to this west
ern country and climate and found
just what people will find that come
here, and that ia that the "know-all"
that is in this country or any other
is not te man to rely upon, but the
mnn that is experimenting and want
ing to learn how to improve and to do
befr. A .few -Quesfons ri.?bt here
might be pertinent. How long have
you known of Milo Maize? Maize is
now one of the staple crops of this
western country.
We well remember when the fellows
called it "Gruzelum" corn and some
called it "Jerusalem" corn and others
"Goose neck" and so forth, but today
we are growing several varieties of
it and it is staple on the market.
Only a very few years, five or six,
sincev Kfifftr Corn was entered on the
board of trade as a staple grain. It
was the first oil the dry climate
crops to have this destinction. How
much do we know about the possibili
ties of Sudan grass. We have in our
office now about one peck measure of
this seed and last year is the first
that any of it was raised. Who tries
this out and recommends it to the
farmer ami inlrodui.es it as profitable
crop?The experiment stations of our
sUU-j. Our stale institutional and
agricultural colleges, ana they are
sending men out all over this country
to introduce droith resisting crops
and grains and hays that are suitable
to tiiis country and this and no other
, reason, whether you know it or not,
is the only apology, Mr. Homesteader,
for you being in this country.
What has happened in years gone
by? Did the early homesteader in
western and even central Kansas stay?
They did not. And why? The sim
ple reason is that they knew how to
gro v vhit, oats, and lidian corn, and
that is all and to raise wheat was out
of the question on account of the ex
penses connected with getting in the
'first crop or crops, and that corn did
not "make" on sod and that they
starved out before they had time to
learn by experience the valuable les
sons that are being taught us now
by our farm demonstrators through
our agricultural colleges, which infor
mation most of us have a part of be
fore we landed here. Shall we stop
because we have learned part of it and
because we know more than-some of
our forefathers who braved the pio
ncer life and couldn't stay? NO. We
don't know it all yet, none of us, not
nearly all yet, for there is just as
much to learn in the next ten years
as there was in the past ten and we
want to get in on this knowledge first
hand. We want the good of it just
as soon as we ncaget it.
Farm demonstrator is not all. Anl
mal husbandry is n part o the ex
perts work, and he will come Informed
in this important branch of handling
stock. He will be competent in the
treatment, or rather in the prevention
of the diseases common to horses,
cattle and sheep. He will have new
and modern methods , in breeding,
grading and raising farm and ranch
live stock and the best methods of
caring for and feeding the same.
There is another feature of this
work that has not been touched upon
yet in all of the letters that have come
CLAYTON--
Tre Coming City
Possibilities for Clayton within
The Next Couple of Years
That Claytori will become a city of
tention of the official janitor and
roustebout, should make for the en
joyment of the public a most enjoy
able and beautiful lawn.
Mr. Jacob Lujan, assistant in the
Treasurers office, has established him
self official artist around the Court
house. He is a cartoonist of more
than ordinary ability, has justly earn
ed the title given him, as samples of
Henry Beerley Dead
The news was brought to town Wed
nesday evening of the sad accidental
death of Henry Beerly, of Kenton.
Mr. Beerly maintaines a stationary
gasoline engine in the . back . of his
Garage and machine shop and he was
working, about this engine when the
accident occurred. No one was in ,
the room with him and when hia
helper came into the room, hearing
0.00 within the next few years his work shown to our reporter leave
is the orediction of those who are n0 uht Jl the mind of any one as to
no at frl nn mi fin." Ir nnfi whn tirtVA
, the correct identity of the character '
in on the subject and to show you that ea 0 the Kroun(j more than three I that he was making a portrait of . Mr. ' some confusion there, he found Mr,
J. ..U L . 1.1. 1.1. i " n i.-w-w . . . T" 1 L J. il - O 'It.
weeks" and likv ' their hand on
t.hu Tiiittlrt nf tní - enminiiniLv- Tim
appointed several millions of dollars un:,f,:nl, of th .. TI:irh Rhftn, nni,
just for this very kind of work that In,lusUial S(,hool builaing wiU( with.
we nv oen wwrng auoui .na inere out qwttioa bring , from 250 to 500
I""on r union county, iNew -nonl to the ritv to t the m-ivilen-es
..-j r - :j x
Byrne says that "ne knows who they ' Beerly prostrate on the .floor with
Ire, just 03 easy" which is the last one side of his he-id antl face ci";3heu
Mexico, and we would hate to have
the world know that we were so far
behind the times that we would not
of an up-to-date school system. We
will have it .and we yon't be satisfied
with any thing els'j. w We want the
add the necessary amount to to what people of Unon and surrounding coun.
. uwu wnuenai us uy me uovern- Ue, to begin ow make Brrange.
ment to improve our own conditions ment8 to Bend the children to Clayton
and advance our financial interests. to school for the n.Jxt Bea3on fop we
The Citizen is for a Farm Demon- ftre goinR to have th(J. etiuipment to
SK-ator. We are far an expert lo aelp t them lhrous in ;irst c;sa shape
ua uuvauce iniii develop ir.e source
of all wealth and make of Union
County the best stock and farm
country in this western country.
O
MISSION
CHANGES
MANAGEMENT
Mr. A. C. Weinsheimer, of Trinidad,
has recently taken charge of the
management of the Mission Theater,
in place of Mr. E.rln, resigned. Mr.
Weinsheimer has had about fourteen
years experience in the theatrical'
world and has managed some of the
leading theaters in Chicago, Mil
waukee, Minneapolis, Detroit and
until a short time ago was
manager of the Montgomery
Theater, Georgia. He comes highly
J . ,1 1 T i . .i . .
pie of Clayton the best that the town
ill afford in the amusement line.
Arrangements are being made to book
some of the largest and beat features
produced in moving picture lines and
will book such road shows as are
of high class and legitimate nature.
Mr. Weinsheimer, as pianist, his lead
er of the Orchestra and promises to
give the people the best in music,
play the pictures as they should be
played and to give nothing but hih
class entertainment.
Married
Henry R. Farr to Amelia L. Ken
nedy, both of Roy, N. M. The party
motored to Clavton in the morniivr
and were married by the Rev. A.-P. we wnnted them
and will have a coi a of t'-uihcrs that
are second to none in the west, v '
We wont quit here. North-east
New Mexico needs a tate Normal aad
Agricultural College. We need it bad j
and we want it just as bad as we
need it and we believe that when the
time comes that we will be able to
convince our "Powers that Be" that
this is the place and that we, Union
County folks are the folks and we
have the people in our town that have
Ihe money and are as big-hearted as
any to be found in the land and that
we are going to have some of these
state institutions to more conveni
ently take care of the mass of young
people that are growing up in our
midst, clamoring for an education. It
is our duty and the duty of the state
to so locate -these 'Nitiutions as will
inakti tneij "cAivehuVn. lo laaiotf-'gvn'!
erations, for the best there is to be
had is none too good for Clayton and
Union County.
Then we need a U. S. Government
building. The sameone that we have
been wanting for some time, but be
e.vjse we didn't get it just when we
(vanted it is no sign that we didn't
want it. No. We are going to keep
right on until we get it located right
here in Clayton, a Post Office building,
U. S. Land Office building and a place
to hold an occasional session of the
U. S. District Court for the Western
District of New Mexico. Wo ure on
the program for the big things and
if we do not get them when we want
them we will keep right on until we
do get them, (which will still be when
word in criticism.
The Commissioners court took tes
timony and heard the argument in the
petition of Juan Carrillo for the re
Versing of their decision in failing to
grant him or rather revoking his
li.-eiise, v.hich was denied by the Com
missioners and their former decision
sustained.
The Cuinmissluner court while in
session, districted the commission
ers districts of the County, bounding
Í', e disti'itt in the north end of the
County, known as District No. 2,
on tiie south line dividing Townships
No. 27 and 28. Commissioners dis
trict No. 1, comprising the central
portion of the county lies from this
li:rj south to a line between Town
ships 23 and 24. District No. 3 will
comprise the balance of the county
to the south. This throws Clayton
in District No. 1, instead of in District
No. 2, as it was heretofore.
Court week and Big Monday will
lo the first Monday in March, which
is not far distant. Every one seems
to be planning for a big time and the
merchants of the city are already lay
ing their plans for the big event, as
well as the county officers, and the
would be county officers and every
other one who has a bee in his po
litical bonnet. A great time is ex-
0
Uehekahs Enjoy Special Program
The belt was oir the engine and a
piece of two-by-four .was thrown
through the window,, from, coming in
contact with the ejigine. ne was ev
idently working abqut the engine but
as to just what he was doing .is not
hnovn. . He . never, . regained conxci- .
ousness after the accident and died
about six o'clock. The accident hap
pened about two o'clcd; in the after
noon. Willis Means and Chas. (Jar
tor came to Clayton' on. Wednesday
ovenim; to pre; .ire He e;-.a!-..t for
burial the funeral bc-'n;;; held today,
Thursday.
Mr. Beerly has been a resident of
this part of the co-irtry for many
days. He has always been engaged
in the sume business in which he vas
engaged at the time of his death. He
was a man of temperate habits, a hard
and honest worker, and had a keen
dislike for any one that would not
work. He leaves a wife and three
small children to mourn their loss.
He was a devoted hn?'mnd and father,
a good and accommodating neighbor,
a first class workman and will be much
missed in Kenton and surrounding
country. The Citizen extends sympa
thy to the bereaved family.
Party Motored to T, inadad
Gaines, and motored back to Roy in
the evening. Married, date of Friday,
February, 10th.
I. O. O. F. Celebrate
V
The Odd-Fellows of Clnyton Lodge
No. 45, celebrated Lincoln's Birthday
by giving a Masquerade ball on Sat
urday night, February the 10th, at
the I. O. O. F. Hall, to their friends,
which was largely attended. Music
was furnished by the celebrated Bris
tol family.
o v
BAPTIST SERVICES
Then there are railroads. We un
derstand from reliable information
that several lines of railroad arc head
ed this direction and that if they are,
we want them to understand right now
that we are the logical place for them
to cross the C. and S. or better yet
to come right here and make them
selves to home. We are not just ex
actly hunting a railroad boom right
here inClayton but some times "hon
ors are forced upon us" and if such be
the case we are right there with the
"big mit."
In all, we are out for big game.
We have a big bunch of efficient, wide
awake business men and men who
have shown themselves able to turn
the wheels of progress in days gone
by and are there with the big "push."
fhe members of the Rebekah Lodge
No. 32 had a very delightful time on
Friday evening, Feb. 11th. After the
meeting of the lodge a sumptuous
spread was partaken of and the ladies
then decided to give to the maker of
the most delicious sandwich a prize
and after some close contesting, Mrs.
I. Porter, who is noted for her ability
as a culinary artist, won the prize
which was a minature Jersey Cow.
Ailer the spread dancing was indulged
in by the members.
Mr R. T. Mauser and dmifhters,
Mr.a.d Ml-! IV.n.tV uihÍ MUa'Jístie
Exum, motored to Trinadad on S:iti
urday, returning on Tuesday of this
week. Mrs. Palmer, however, remain
ed in Trinidad, where she will spend
the week with her son, who is at
tending school there.
W. L. Franklin, Home
-0-
Rev. E. B. Atwood, of Albuquerque,
Seeretarv nf flip Ti.'iiitist fnnvpntlnn
of New Mexico, will preach at the h8V6 n6Ver hvd 8 bm' ?d
uoni want one, vui we ure iiuvmn
Baptist church of this city Sunday
morning and evening, Feb. 20th.
Rev. Atwood will preach also at the
following places: Bingham School
louse Sunday afternoon, Feb. 20. Eitts
School House, Monday evening, Feb.
21. Thomas, Tuesday evening Feb.
22. Otto School House, Wednesday
evening, Feb. 23. All are cordially
invited to attend these meetings.
J. Q. Herrin.
o
METHODIST NOTES
about the most vigorous growth that
a town could have and not be guilty
of having a boom. Lord save us from
a boom, but give us plenty of "healthy
growth." '
COURT HOUSE NEWS
News are scarce around the court
house this week. If any one has news
they are not telling them and things
3ccm to be rocking along so quietly
that news are not born.
The Court yard is being treated
to a good soaking which, with a few
Morning: Sunday school, 10:00.
Preaching ut 11:30, A. M. Subject,
"Almost a Christian."
Evening:
"A Man Who Lost His Nerve."
Rev. Autho P. Gaines, Pastor I the lawn, under the able care and at
SIMON HEUZSTEIN HOME
FKOM MARKET
Mr. Simon Horzstein returned
home from tht eastern markets the
fire part of the week after on ab
sent e of about four weeks. He says
that he wou'd rnther come to Clayton
than to go to New York or any place
else. He sounds the same sigh for
relief that comes from all of the
clothing men who have gone to mar
ket this spring and that is, that there
is a decided shortage of raw materials
and that the small manuracturer h;.s
no chance as against the large manu
facturer who has bought in large
quantities and is making supplies for
the European nations that are in war.
Wash goods in colors are out of the
question and that there is certain
grief ci.r.ii.ig fui the buyer who in
sists on colors as well as the mer
chant who sells the goods, because
the majority of the goods in colors
are not washable and will easily fade.
The1 most ordinary garments will
show the same trouble ns the others.
For instance, the ordinary blue hick
ory shirt and overalls, the common
black hose bid fair to be a thing of
the past, at least for a time. The
manufacturer, says Mr. Horzstein, is
bidding for the big business, the big
order, all of which are going across
the watsrs. He further states that
the general sentiment in the east is
that the war will continue at least
t vo years yet and relief from these
conditions are not in sight. Mr. Her-
more such days as we have been hav
ing, would in a short timo bring ostein enjoyed his trip very much
Preaching 7:30, Subject grass. It has been previously treat-1 came back rejoicing that he lives in a
od to a good spread of fertilizer affd land of peace and plenty and is glad
that ne is an American.
i
Mr. W. L. Franklin, of the Herzstein
Seed Co., returned tii3 week from a
three week tour through this state
and Arizona, in the interests of his
firm. He reports a fine business,
which is very gratifying to himself
as well as the firm that he represents.
Mr. Franklin is a worthy young
man, has had much experience in
the seed business, having been, pre
vious to his employment with this
arm, in the employ of the Barteldes
Seed Company, of Lawrence, Kansns,
a their branch house at Denver. The
Horzstein Seed Co. is, in a manner,
one of our infant industries, have
snent a great dial of money adver
tising this spring, and the Citizen
wishs them,1 and Mr. Franklin un
bounded success in "Spreading the
Good Seed" of Union County far and
wide.
CREAD CONTEST
Considerable interest was manifest
in the bread rc.test held at the school
hoti.se Feb.- IS.- .Y..-. Frr.nk Campbell
won first prize for light bread, Mrs.
Floyd Akins second prize; it is an
interesting fact thai both prize loaves
were made with liquid yeast. The
first prize was 100 lbs. of C. P. flour
and $3.00 in money. The second
50 lbs. of flour and $2.00 in money.
Mrs. Herringa won first prize for
graham bread, Mrs. Paddock for
corn bread. The judges showed their
interest in the subject by discussing
the bread and flour question with the
club members. . Mr. Pyle, of the Clay
ton Mill told the kind of wheat used,
explained the difficulties in bread mak
ing with new flour and offered to put
a-.-ay some flour to "AGE" if the club
members would try the contest again
in a month. Ñ Mr. Dean of the Bakery
offered to keep compressed yeast for
sale if he could have a guaranteed
number of buyers each weekW On
Feb. 20th the lesson will be, Beauty
in home surroundings. On March 11
a cake contest will be held.
A
r
