FIRST TJiAIN SINCE STORM LOS ANGELES, Feb. 19: The first train since the storm of January 17 left for San Diego. There Witt be a train each way today and the
regular service will be started tomorrow.
BRITISH ARE BEATEN OFF BY THE GERMANS BERLIN, Feb. 19.: The British have made a new attempt to retake a position- in Southwest Ypres which was recent
ly captured by the Germans but were beaten off with heavy losses is officially announced by the Berlin office.
HANS SCHMIDT ELECTROCUTED Ossinning, Feb. 19: Hans Schmidt was electrocuted at Sing Sing. prison at dawn this morning for the murder oft Anna Aumuller on.
Sept. 2, 1913. He went quietly to the death chamber and addressed himself to the witnesses asking for forgiveness for those he had injured. He seated himself in the;
death chair within a minute.
SENATOR LODGE MAKES SPEECH WASHINGTON, Feb. 19.: Senator Lodge, the ranking minority member on the Foreign Relations committee made a speech
in the Senate declaring the abandonment by the United States of its principle of keeping its ports open, and allowing its citizens free travel on merchant ships of the bel
ligert nations which are armed solely for defense would be an unneutral act and a step toward war. He said it would make the United States an ally of the Teutons.
CHARGES AGAINST THE INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY WASHINGTON, Feb. 19.: Charges that the International Harvester Company furnished
money for arms and ammunition for the Ortez-Argimedo revolution against the Carranza government in Yucatan have been made by Levy Mayer of Chicago in the
Senate agricultural committees, and calls for an investigation of the alleged monopoly for the control of the sisal market.
ARIZONA
YUMA SOUTHWEST
1 "-.,;
J 1
f m
'7. r-
4
"4 :
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
GADSDEN
VOLUME XLVI. NUMBER 12.
YUMA, ARIZONA, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1916.
(By B. F. Fly)
One more step forward has been taken in an effort
to induce Secretary Lane to at once begin work on the
first unit of the mesa.
In order to convince the Reclamation officials that
those who own land on the mesa are anxious for work
to begin at once, the appended petition has been al
ready drawn up and is now being circulated. It speaks
for itself, and speaks in no uncertain words, very, very
plainly showing that those who sign it want these mesa
lands irrigated as soon as possible.
Many of the owners live in places other than in
Yuma. They are requested to sign their names to the
( petition as printed herewith and at- once slip it out and
send same to Secretary L. W. Alexander, of the Yuma
County Commercial Club. No time is to be lost, for the
committee that has been appointed to go to Washing
ton will want to take this petition with them and have it
ready to back of their request for the immediate opening
of the first unit.
This first unit, of course, will be determined by the
Reclamation officials that is, as to the acreage o be
embraced in the unit. Each individual will natural! v
have his individual opinion as to how large the unit then
should be, and what lands, it should embrace. This big
question, however, is one for the engineers to settle.
When the first unit shall have been established, it
will then be comparatively easy to get the second unit,
and so on, until all the mesa lands shall have been put
under water.
It is unnecessary to say that these mesa lands are
the greatest asset of Yuma county. Planted to oranges
and other citrus fruit, they will be a regular gold mine
for Yuma. Left as they are well, they are no better
than millions of other acres of arid lands in Arizona and
California that are not worth paying taxes on save and
except for a few weeks in the year when they furnish
fair grazing for live stocK.. They are now assessed at an
average of about $30 per acre, whereas, if they are
planted to citrus fruit they at once are assessed at evry
much more than that, and enhance in value with each
succeeding year. Here is the petition. Sign it at once
and return it to Secretary Alexander of call at the Ex
aminer Office and sign.
Hon. Franklin K. Lane, Yuma, Ariz., Feb. 17, 1916.
Secretary of the Interior,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:
We, the undersigned owners of land on the so-called
mesa, hereby most respectfully urge you to take imme
diate steps to extend the Yuma irrigation project to said
mesa, taking in approximately Twelve Thousand acres
as the first unit of said mesa lands, with the distinct as
surance that we will willingly pay our share of the con
struction costs of said project, and in addition pay the
further costs that may be incurred in extending the sys
tem of the mesa lands.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF we hereby sign our names
with the number of acres owned by us set opposite our
respective names.
Owner Acres
Recent Supreme Court Decision
Has Aroused Temperance
Forces of the State and a
Strenuous Time is Prom
ised State Politicians
1
LIVE qqqD gft CfiL
(By B. F. Fly)
"Search the prohibition
amendment as you will, there
is no suggestion or intima
tion in any form contained
therein, prohibiting the pos
session or individual con
sumption of intoxicating li
quors in Arizona," says the
State Supreme Court in its
final decision in the much
talked-of case of the State tf
Arizona vs. Sturgeon, decid
ed last Saturday in Phoenix,
the certified copy of which
decision reached Judge
'Frank Baxter yesterday, and,
I through his courtesy, is now
before me, for perusal, diges
tion and comment.
From what I had read in the vari
ous papers of the state regarding this
now celebrated decision, and after
carefully reading Attorney General
Jones' construction of the decision,
I had about made up my mind that
it was a lot of political buncomb a
mere mass of jumbled legal phrase
ology calculated to leave the question
in doubt, and yet at the same time
"point with pride" to the death blow
that had been dealt the whiskey trust,
as well as in the same breath make
all the "old soaks" in the state feel
that they had at last found a Moses
who clearly pointed the way across
the desert.
But, after a careful and painstaking
reading of the exhaustive decision, I
am constrained to the belief that it
is one of the ablest decisions I have
ever read emanating from a state su
preme court, and, on this particular
question is destined to take its place
by the side of the most noted deci
sions of the United States Supreme
Court on the same question.
The decision in full would take up
two pages of this paper, and yet so
careful was the court to cover every
conceivable phase of the case at issue
that not a word is out of place, not
a word too much is said, not a word
is missing indeed the court even
went a little bit out of its way to
admonish citizens that they must not
abuse their rights, as described in
the decision, but must remember that
"the way of the transgressor is hard."
Practically every lawyer in the
state disagrees with Attorney General
Jones who contends that the only man
ner in which liquor can be introduced
in the state under the ruling of the
Supreme Court, is to bring it into the
state yourself, either in your pocket or
in a suit-case, and that express com
panie's and railroads are prohibited
from bringing it to you. The Su
preme Court bears out no such con
tention, but, having been guided in
its decision by Supreme Court deci
sions based on the Webb- Kenyon Act
of Congress, it takes exactly the con
trary view, which permits "the trans
portation or shipment of intoxicating
liquors from one state into another
state," if not "in violation of any law
of such state." I apprehend this
view will be taken by Judge Baxter,
County Attorney Colman, Sheriff
Greenleaf and Chief of Police Levy
not that they want to see liquor intro
duced into Yuma county, but because
under tire ruling of the Supreme Coun
they simply can't prevent it.
The bars have been thrown down
because the constitutional amend
ment did not make it an offense to
drink liquor or nave liquor in your
possession within the state of Arizon;
Had that clause been inserted in the
amendment then, and in that event,
the introduction or importation of li
quor into the state of Arizona would
have been a crime, and the Webo
Kenyon Act would not have applied.
However the amendment is faulty to
that extent, and so long as the amend
ment stands, the individuals can send
away, or, go away and bring all the
liquor he wants for his "personal use."
The Supreme Court has said so in
its last word, and that word is now
the law of the land.
In its lengthy decision, among other
things, the court says:
"The appellant was tried and con
victed under an information that
charged him with bringing and intro
ducmg into the State of Arizona from
outside the limits of said State, intox
icating liquor, to-wit: One quart of
wine. He demurred to the informa
tion on the ground that it did not
negative that it was introduced for
his personal use. The demurrer wa
overruled. On the trial he offered to
prove that he brought the intoxicat
ing liquor into the State for his per
sonal use. This offer of proof was
denied by the Court. From the judg
ment of conviction this appeal is pros
ecuted, the appellant assigning as er
rors the order overruling his demurrer
and the refusal of his offer of evi
dence of intended pesonal use. The
question then as to whether one may
introduce into the State of Arizona
intoxicating liquors for his personal
(Continued on Page Four)
The county librarian with headquar
ters at El Centro, makes the report
as shown below. The showing made
is excellent in view of the depleted
funds allotted to this feature of the
Imperial county budget. The system
of libraries operated at present" in this
county consist of six county free li
braries, seven deposit stations, thirty
school districts to supply with service
and more school districts are joining
all the time. These branches have not
received any of the new current books
as, with the money allowed, none
could be bought, and it has been
only by changing the books very often
at each place that the people have
been given the books which they have
not had before. The order of the
branches in this report is arranged
according to the highest circulation
of books. Our readers' particular at
tention is called to the position the
Bard branch has maintained. Mrs.
Beeman, the county librarian, has now
commented most favorably on this
showing. Mrs. E. E. Braun, the cus
todian of the local branch, has man
aged her office most efficiently, and
.he enviable showing maae by Bard
can be attributed largely to her close
attention to her duties. A box of
books will be received here 'as soon as
traffic is resumed on the Potholes
line.
Branch
Librarian's Report
No. books Cir. Bor
Holtville, 712 2174 328
Brawley 873 1420 486
Bard 120 611 126
Alaraa 84S 57S 160
Calexico, 491 547 122
Seeley 40S 290 180
Eucalyptus ' 124 203 65
Heber 327 192 211
Jasper, 196 182 20
Niland, 203 149 75
Wideawake 155 135 14
Eastside, 136 102 33
Calipatria, 172 101 133
Silsbee, 147 96 9S
Florence 83 94 ...
North End ' 49 93
Mt. Signal, 136 82
Muiberry, 130 64
Date, 105 61
McCabe, 154 60
High Line, 98 59
Spruce, 79 58
Meloland, 325 42
Picacho 109 46
La Verne, 93 31
Centinela, 104 30
Glamis, 25 25
Dixieland 244 23
So. Fern . 87 20
Westside, 46 21
Trifolium, 139 14
A. R. Hines left Wednesday night
for the coast to be gone indefinitely.
He plans on making his home there.
Mr. Hines is one of Bard's old-timers,
and his many friends here are sorry
to lose him and hope that he will be
back among us to take up his resi-
18
63
3p
29
36
39
29
94
14
56
14
139
40
dence again. His farm has been rent
ed td T. H. Gibbs, who will make his
home there.
H. A. Berrjman made a business
visit to Bard last week. He home is
now in Long Beach. He Is looking
well and says he is enjoying life to
the fullest.
Richard Anker, brother of S. J.
Anker, principal of the Bard schools,
has rented the Berryman ranch. He
.will reside here and do Intensive farm
ing on his ranch and others which he
may rent.
O. N. and William Hendricks are
oack on the farm, where they will
..pend an indefinite period making fur
ner imporvements to their place.
Dr. Geo. N. Robert writes from Te
;ate that he is feeling fine, news his
.riends here will receive with great
pleasure.
James Hogan, of Fresno, has leased
Jie Chester Smith ranch. Mr. Hogan
will specialize on chickens, in which
ousiness he is thoroughly experienced.
Many of the Bard farmers are going
io try cotton growing again this year.
The Durango variety is the most popu
lar with us, and all are agreed to
grow that particular type of staple.
CO. Cartlich came from Los An
geles to look over his place here, re
turning home after spending several
days.
Dr. D. D. Nice made a trip from
his home in Los Angeles to Bard last
vveekand spent, several days with his
folks here.
D. F. Brandt is home from an ex
pended trip to Los Angajes.
The water users of Uie San Pascual
alley held a called meeting at the
school house last Saturday night to
discuss the water charge assessed
.igainst the farmers. A vote author
izing the committee to deal with this
matter as it saw fit was taken and
passed.
Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Fisher, of Chan
Jler, Okla., and their little boy, are
j'uests of Mr. and Mrs. Harry Guthrie.
Mrs. Fisher is the niece of Mrs. Guth
rie. They will remain here for some
time.
' Last Sunday, Roy 0. Pyle, Harry
Steele, W. H. Miller, Robt. Pirtle and
Leslie Wright spent several hours do
ing gratis work on the Yuma-Bard
road.
Mrs. Harry Guthrie entertained a
number of ladies on Tuesday after
noon, in honor of her niece, Mrs. E. B.
Fisher.
Geo. Ratcliffe is expected to be back
home in a couple of weeks. He has
been spending the last month with
iis people in Wichita, Kansas.
Mr. and airs. W. A. Peterson and
ittle baby have left for their home
in Mandan, North Dakota, where Mr.
Peterson is in charge of an experi
ment station, operated by the Depart
ment of Agriculture.
