iP5Wflpll
FINANCIAL EDITION
t
NIGHT
NIGHT
EXTRA
EXTRA
a
iHP!
... . V
PL afsy M H B I 1 1 1 S I w9 U itMMMrWm WP m I I
n
pi
i.i
VOL. 1I.-NO. 10T
ritlLABELPUIA, MONDAY, MAltOII 27, 1910.
CoriKraur. 1010, M'tns ront.ro Ledoeii Coiipint.
PBIOEONE OBNa?1
iflVE ALLIED MERCHANT SHIPS
SUNK BY U-BOATS IN 24 HOURS;
NO AMERICANS DIED ON SUSSEX-
Ifrench Transport
Mined Near Halomca.
Heavy Loss of Life
Is Feared
fillncty-slx Perished on.Olmn-
p i ti MiAt- viiviTMinro malar
nei jruiitvub uuii"t iwiou
Vessel Was Torpedoed With
out Warning Several Citi
zens of U. S. Injured ,
tprof. and Mrs. Mark Baldwin nnd
Daughter Sale in uouiognc imgv
cn Men of Former Atlantic
Transport Liner Minneapolis Re
ported Drowned in Mediterranean
,
German submarines have sunk five
Med merchantmen in the last 24
fours. Heavy loss of life is feared.
A French transport, carrying troops
from Salonica, was sunk by a mine
shortly after leaving port, and only 73
fpersons were saved, according to a
Hispatch received in ucntn irom
pUthens.
Tension in Washington over the at-
lacks on the Channel packet Sussex
fand the British steamship English
man, with a loss of one .American
i.life on the latter vessel, has reached
a point where 'many officials say a
break with the Central Powers would
"cause no surprise.
The death list of the Sussex disas
ter is placed at 9G by the American
Embassy at London. Cable messages
from the Embassy this afternoon say
'bo Americans perished.
I Mahy of the American survivors
isscrt that the Sussex was attacked
t- without warning and torpedoed.
A Coroner's jury at Dover returned
ft verdict tpday that the Sussex was
"struck by' an enemy torpedo." '
Prof. J. M. Bnldwin, his wife and
daughter, of Baltimore, were stricken
from, the list of missing when, word
vis received in London that ihcy-
'were safe.
IONDON. March. 27. Ninety-six per
.koiu are missing aa a result of the blow-
jHuguuof the'Channel liner Sussex oft the
jirrench coast on Friday, according to
prevised official lists Issued today In both
'London and Paris.
Several Americans were seriously In-
I jured, but no Amcrlcnn lives were lost In
the disaster, the American Embassy an
nounced this afternoon.
Miss Calliope Fennel!, of New York, who
. was missing, has been located In Paris.
tTne missing American woman is -urs.
, A. Fennell. of New York.
i More than half a dozen of the Amer
ican survivors have sworn to affidavits at
"'the United States .Kmbnssy declaring their
belief that the ship wns torpedoed by u
luomarJne.
,t Fear for the safety of Professor and Mrs,
'Mark Baldwin and their dauchter. MUs
f Elizabeth, were set at rest-by a telegram
sIrom Boulogne saying that all had been
Jinded on the French coast.
The erroneous report was circulated In
pthe confusion on Saturday that Elizabeth
i Baldwin had died from her Injuries. Mlsa
Baldwin was wounded, but Is In no danger
"of death, the Boulogne dispatch asserts.
, Miss Uertrude Barnes, of New YorlClB
also safe. She had been listed as irilsslng
L fca Sunday.
NO ONE SAW SUBMARINE.
Mbat of the Americans who swore that
Jthe shin, was attacked by a, submarine
;fcased their Information upon statements
fnuda by the captain and other ofll.-ers of
fth vessel that they had seen tne wake
;of a torpedo. No one saw the submarine
.and no warning of any kind was given,
Jt was said.
' British 'newsnaners. accenting the sub-
hiarlne story as true, comment upon the
Incident with bitter editorials today. The
Stress, almost aa a whole, expresses the
MOVIE CENSORS CUT OUT CRITICISM DIRECTED AGAINST THEM
PISi
I'hnln hv K.ixtlnml Sdnllnx
MISS ELIZABETH BALDWIN
Bryn Mawr graduate, who was a
passenger on the Sussex, sunk
in thb English Channel. She
was unconscious when rescued by
a French stenmor. She was ac
companied by her parents," Pro
fessor and Mrs. James M. Bald
win, of Baltimore.
CITY'S FINANCIERS CUT
SALARY INCREASES AND
NEW JOBS FROM LOAN
QUICK NEWS
U' s. AEROPLANES DESTROYED IN MEXICO
WOri.tl YOtr BTAND
KOn THIS'
oa Tins''
T1ICM WHY STAND TOIl THIS?
Moving picture concerns will display cartoons similar to the nbovc in their campaign against the unjust
powers which, they assert, the State Board of Censorship has ..assumed. But the censors have also
censored these cartoons, thus intruding, it is charged, upon the domain of politics, wherens they were em
powered to pass only upon morals.
MOVIE CENSORS
PLAY POLITICS;
WILLBE SUED
Cutting of Animated Car
toon Declared to Be
Breach of Law
ACT CALLED FLAGRANT
Chairman Gaffney Proposes
Separate Measures to Cover
Present Expenses and
1915 Deficiency
Movie Men's Case
Against the Censor
ECONOMY THE KEYNOTE
Demands Curbing of Reckless Expen
ditures and Unwise Incurring
of Debts
w
Continued on rage l'our, Column lour
THE WEATHER
Speaking of ansrer as alienating the
lnlnd from prayer, Jeremy Taylor; blshop-
author. who. died 219 years ago, once
I Wrote;
l "For so liavn T seen n lark rlslne from
fe-fcla bed of irrass and saarfmr uowurtl. sin?
E bursa he rises, and hones to get to heaven.
E'.wd climb above the clouds; but the poor
,- aa yemeu uacK wuh liio iuuu oiku-
kings or an eastern wind and bis motion
"toade' Irregular and Inconstant, descending
Itnora at everv breath nf the tetnnest than
Kit could recover by the llbratlon and fre-
i-ix.u neigning oi nis wings; mi me nine
ji.ntiiuie was forced to sit down and pant,
t.Jd stay till the, storm was over; and
then it made a prosperous flight, and did
P- and sing, aa If It had learned music
and motion from on angel, as he passed
yLOmetimes thrnk!(?h thA nlr nhmlt hl
!toinlatrles here below. So Is the prayer
f a good man '
ftt n theirton-. of anger Is over, pray;
MltS the old wpathpr adaen. "Afakn hav
f bil the sun shines,"
FORECAST
I Tor Philadelphia and vicinity
jwam tonight and probably Tuesday;
ifwneuhat colder Tuesday; moderate
M--craef to norm, wtnan, r
-" or itetaiis see page IS,
MST ANP- SOUND
"5iCHr'I-M- old-IUlil. fentleman1 watcn.
COSH XBtt U.h (n,lnl. t. n t, ka.naan
V SRiV!'-' et Ctsetnut t. ferrlea, to Broad St.
Wg-b t WS3 Sjruce. Ilewru tf returokl
550,R'NCj Wa"-. 00i 1wcU at- Cm-
(fM'HAQis, Li narkaae "conulnujs looac-
frdl90?' - 4 jr0a. I Njaueiitlw
E f'a to PeooaylviiBU Ikwr and Saati Co..
W zS5-?Ba "!WwhUl ats
.'tSS" P- tontn. wtiUs fiidi-
The adoption of a resolution strlldng
out of the loan bill all provisions for In
crenties In salaries and the creation of
new municipal positions, and the Intro
duction of another resolution by Chairman
Joseph P. Gaffney proposing the division
of the money fieeded for present expense:!
and the 1915 deficiency today marked the
meeting of Councils' Finance Committee
for the discussion of the $86,000,000 loan.
Chairman Oaffney's resolution, the first
announcement of, his heralded finance
program, proposed the creation of a two-
year loan apart from the large loan, which
would provide 4,300,303.23 for money
needed at present and nn added Item of
$246,400 to cover the 1915 deficiency.
The curbing of reckless expenditures
without a thought as to the borrowing rcy
pacity actuated the Gaffney resolution, tle
author stated. ,
The resolution calling upon the Finance
Committee to strike out of the loan bill all
provisions for Increase In salaries of city
employes and the creation of new posi
tions was Introduced by Common Council
man Jtobert Smltii, of the 36th Ward.
The need of economy was emphasized
by Chairman Gaffney In n speech before
the committee,' Citing, a recent decision
of the Supreme Court In '.the case of
Schuldice V. Pittsburgh, he said, in part:
"I see the need for great municipal
economy. The corporate authority and
Finance Committee of a municipality ate
just as much concerned with the spirit of
that decision of the Supreme Court, if not
more, as with Its technical legal effect.
"The notice served on municipal au
thority by that decision, as I read be
tween Its lines. Is that a halt must be
made upon unwise and unsound flnanceer
Ing, that municipalities must cease reck,
jess Incurring of debts and obligations
without any thought as to borrowing ca
pacity; In other words, that at once an
Continued on I'uae 1'lif, Column One
Moving Picture Board of Trade
of America will institute legal pro
ceedings against Pennsylvania
State Board of Censors because
board eliminated subtitle of politi
cal import from animated cartoon.
Subtitle cut by the censors
reads. "Political censorship of
moving pictures is becoming so
serious as to threaten to ruin the
whole industry. If you believe in
the freedom of the screen, just as
you believe in the freedom of the
press, won't you write your Con
gressman, your State Representa
tive and your Mayor and demand
a free screen?"
Law provides that board shall
-onry-cenrorlmtfldTaVthings in mov
ing pictures, saying:
"The board shall examine or
supervise the examinations of all
films, reels or views to be ex
hibited or used in Pennsylvania;
and shall approve such films, reels
or views which are moral and
proper; and shall disapprove sucii
as are sacrilegious, obscene, in
descent, or immoral, or such as
tend, in the judgment of the board,
to corrupt morals. This section
does not apply to announcement or
advertising slides."
QUADIUIIMiPXS FOLLOW TWINS;
FATHER ASKS FOIt A RAISE
Chadds Ford Couple's Three Girls
and BoyAll Well
WMII.im I'asoo. teamster fur tho !. C
Wulher Company, nt Chadds Ford, Dela
ware County, applied for a r.ilse In pay
nt the opening of tho linn's olllco today,
and gave as hit ten son the birth of iptad
niplelH nt his home.
Threo girls and a hoy were born during
the night, and all are allvo and npp.it cntly
in tho best of health. Twin boys wero
born to Jits. I'asco 18 months ago, theso
having been their only children before tho
udvent of tho four.
Tho Moving Picture Board of Trade of
America, aroused My what It terms a
virtually flagrant instance of political
censorship of moving pictures by the
Pennsylvania State ISonrd of Censors, will
start legaj proceedings against the State
board.
Tho law provides that the hoard shall
condemn pictures only on moral grounds,
but this did not prevent tho board from
"going outside Its. legal authority" Jim!
eliminating a political subtitle of an ani
mated cartoon drawn for the Motion Pic
ture Hoard of Trade by Charles It. lie
Cauley.
It is charged that the elimination of this
subtitle was designed to prevent the moving-picture
Interests from making u direct
pollll.al appeal '-i the publld for a free
screon. Tho subtitle which was eliminated
follows:
Political cen&orsblp of moving pic
tures Is becoming so berlous as to
threaten the ruin of the whole In
dustry. If you believe In the free
dom of the screen, Just as you be
lieve in the freedom of the press,
won't you write to your Congressman,
your State representative and your
Mayor and demand a free screen?
Approved by the Motion Picture
Board of Trade of America, Inc.
T. M, Alexander, head of the .Moving
GERMANS CHECK
'SLAV OFFENSIVE
SOUTH OF RIGA
Berlin Asserts Russian
Losses Are Tremendous.
Attacks Fail to Gain
2000 PRISONERS TAKEN
U.S.
TROOPS RUSHED
INTO VILLA HUNT
New Force Now at Border
Ready for Dash Into
Mexico
WASHINGTON, March 27. Two of the American aeroplane i
engaged in scouting in the expedition to get Fancbo Villa had been '
destroyed in Mexico, Four others have been disabled, leaving but
two in service. '
FINANCE COMMITTEE SAYS CITY WON'T PAY FOR BONUS
The first item strickeu from the $86,800,000 loan by Councils'
Finance Committee today was ?25, for the bond of Superintendent
Koblnsou, included in the Department of Public Safety's budget. Hie
city will not pay for bonds, it was decided on motion of Select Coun
cilman Charles Segcr, of the 7tu Ward.
OUTLAWS
T"T"V
IN FLIQHT
-f::,
i-
s&
Continued on I'ate Tivo. Column Tno
H CANNONE TEDESCO
TUONA C0NTR0 VAUX
Nessuna Azione di Fanteria At-
torno a Verdun Sjlurante
Tedesca Silurata
Mentre a Parlgl si rlunlsce II prima
grande consigllo dl guerra degll alieatl
con la partecipakloha'del'rapprebeatantl dl
setto nazlonl, I Hedeschl bombardano an,
cora la linee francesl a Verdun. Intensltl
cando 1'arlone speclalmente nel settore tra
1 fortl dl Pouaumont e d Yaux. Pero la
fanteria tedesca non si a' mossa
Un telegramma da Atene dice che I
turohl dl guamlglone nella cltta' fortlfl
catf dl Konla, pelfAala Minore, che serv -va.
dl base alio forze Ottomans operantl
nella Mesopotamia e nella Palestine han;
o ricevuto ordine dl evacuare la cltta'
cbe e' mlnacclata dal russl.
si apprende che nella battaglla cha b!
svolse eulla costa dello Schlewlg-Holsteln
nuando gil idrovolantl Inglesl attaccarono
n rarano dl avtazlona tedesco. tra navl
JLSwUWlMl tedesche, oltre .lie due
nil gradacaste anche un cacclatorpe
dlnlere tedesco fu affondato dalle sllurantt
'"loggers tn 6a paulna altre e plu" detta
gliu notiile sua guerra, In italiano.)
Fatally Injured, by Machinery
Israel Fravel. 60 years old. U 6 Pearl
street Camden, Is dying In tho Cooper,
llospltalVrom injuries sustained today
"Z" , u,a drawn, into some machinery
at the plant of the Jlathls Yacht Bulldlm
Company, ui mo v v. . -.wi.
iCundeo. Fnvei'H- clojthJng became en
tannled tu the sbant and to ft necoad
in ww puJIed asaina kiXMjc nwvtw
DEATH OF CAMDEN MAN
KEPT FROM DYING WIFE
Camden Woman's Children
Seek to Hold Dreadful News
From Mother
. t,.j,i.'.7 B " "ZT 71.7. wie, V..y
lau (
ijarial iaJrtH
Jlrs. Frank Bryer, 60 years old, of 412
Miclil,) street, Camden, Is dying today
from pneumonia lu an upstairs bedroom
In her home, Ignorant that her aged hus
band succumbed to the same disease last
Friday, and that arrangements have been
completed for his funeral.
In the parlor downstairs the body of
uryer reposes in a ;asK.ei wnicn is banked
with flowers. Upstairs, the aged woman
makes Inquiries during her lucid mo
ments for her husband. It Is a trying time
for her children, Augusta and Gertrude
Bryer. While they are In the sickroom
they have to hide their) grief over the
death of their father, for physicians say
that tho news of the death would destroy
any slight chance which Mrs, Bryer may
have for recovery. So, with forced smiles,
they answer the questions ot their mother,
and say that "father is doing well.f'The
funeral was to have been held today, but
was postponed until next Wednesday In
the hope, that Jfrs. Bryer might pass the
crisis and recover.
Bryer was formerly a bookkeeper. He
retired from aattve work about six year
ago. 119 was S3 years old. The pair at
tended the First Methodist Episcopal
Church, of Camden, for many years.
Members of the church declares that they
were n "ideal couple," the passing of
years failing to dun the romance and
aifectlon of their early married life. The
Jlav Holmes F Oraiatt. of the First
JleUjodjst Bplscopai iTaurcft, of Camden,
WlU officiate at the t'ierat rvicejr ot ir.
Bryfr, wjt Wednesday, $nd mumaat
will lm m Eveigrtea Caettw,
UKRMX, Jlaich 27
Husslan attempts to break through the
positions, .held by the Rrrnles. ot Field Mar
shal von Illndcnburg were resumed on
Sunday, the German War Olllco announced
today.
Near Jokrzyce the Germans captured
21 olllcers and 2H0 men while attacking
tn recapture artillery observation posi
tions, which has been lost to the Itus
slaiis a week ago.
The Itusalnn armies attacking at the
northern end of the east front have lost
an enormous number of men.
German armen have bombarded Ovlnslc
Vllelka and the tnllway stations between
JIInsk,,nnd Barauox Itch.
Following Is the text of that section of
the War Ofllce report that refers to the
east front:
The Itusslans on Sunday renewed
their attacks against the front occu
pied by the armies of Field Marshal
von Hlndenhurg.
With unprecedented numbers, heav
ily supported by enormous amounts
of munitions, the Russians advanced
against the German line northwest of
Jacnbstadt. They suffered ery heavy
losses without achieving anything.
Near Wnllkojeselm our advanced
detachments captured 57 prisoners
and two machine guns.
Repented endeavors of the enemy
against our position northwest of
Postnvy failed. After strong attacks
by portions of three Russian army
corps south of Xnrocz Luke had been
repulsed by us, we made counter-ut-tucks
iioar Mnkrzyce In nn endeavor
to recapture artillery observation bta
tlons lost to tho enemy on March 20.
We captured 21 olllcers and 2140 men.
We also captured a number of ma
chine guns.
Dur airmen bombarded the railway
stations at Dvlnsk and Vllelka, ami
also the railway depots between
Baranovitclt and Minsk.
PBTROQRAn. March 27.
The second week of the great Russian
offensive opened with the Czar's troops
hammering away at the Germans at three
points.
Czar Nicholas Is at the front and his
presence there bus inspired the Russian
olllcers and their men to unusual feats of
valor. The Czar Is very proud of the
achievements of bis men in the early
stages of the offensive and has congrat
ulated bis commanding generals at the
northern end of tho front upon the steady
advances made,
The three chief zones of fighting lie
around Jakobstadt, In fiont of Dvlnsk and
fiitiM I ' ii s
miifr rTBrti
'iiHRiliiillSHraHvl1 '
COMMON PLEAS. UPHELD BY SUPERIOR COURT "
The State Supremo Court .in nn opinion by Justice Krazer today upheld
the right of tho Common. Mens Courts to commit for contempt any perso who
refuses to obey nn order of court made to prevent continuance of acts con
trnry to law. Tho decision wns handed down in habeas corpus proceedings
biought by Christian Meberum, who was sent to prison because he refused to
obey nn order of an Allegheny County Court to remove a building,
FIREBUG SOUGHT FOR BLAZE IN CARGO AT BOSTON
BOSTON, Jtnrcli 27. A fire believed to have been caused by nn Incendiary's,
lionib wns discovered in the after hold of the British steamship City of Naples,
from Cnlcuttn, while a mlliron-dollur East Indian cargo wns being; unloaded at
tho Mystic docks. John F. Cuslck, manager of the American-Indian Line,
charterers of the ,Clty. of Naples, mill that $200,000 Is a conservative estimate
of the damage caused to tho cargo by the nrc.
TAGGART TAKES SENATORIAL OATH
V
WASHINGTON, March 27. Tom Taggart, spick, spam and smiling, today
was sworn in ns 1'nlted Stntes Senator from Indiana,, succeeding the late
Senator Shivoly. Ills wlfo and daughter, Miss Lucy Taggar't, who ia'studylng art
in New .York, sat In the A'lce President's gallery with' Mrs. Marshall while Taggart,
escorted by Senator Kern, was taking tho oath. Later Vice 'President .Marshal!
gave a, luncheon for. the new Senator. Taggart, although not strictly entitled,
was invited to tho Senate Democratic caucus today. .
SCARLET FEVER. GERM FOUND, DOCTORS SAY
UOSTON, March .27. The , germ , of scarlet fever, long one of tho great
puzzles of medical science -and hunted by bacteriologists for many years, la
mild to. have, been found by two Boston doctors. , Dr. F. B. MaMory? pathologist
nt the Boston City Iloepltnl. and his assistant. Dr. K. M. Medlar,, Thblr state-"
ment that they have found the germ ends two years of toil by tho, two doctors.
Kfforts are being made to prepare an antitoxin.-
LITERACY CLAUSE RETAINED BY THE HOUSE
WASHINGTON, March 27. By.a vote of 225 to 82, thq House today ddcldod
to retain in the Burnett immigration bllltho literacy clause that is expected
to result In tho President, vetoing it a requirement that nil Immigrants must
be able to read and write In their own language. Tho vote was taken In
I'ornmltteo of the .wholo 'on a motion by Representative Sabatli, of Illinois; to
strike out the clause. By rising' volotlte motion was defeated, iOO to 74, and
on teller's count'by the even' larger vote.
TURKS DENY BRITISH CLAIM OF SUCCESS ON TIGRIS
CONSTANTINOPLE.-Mnroh 27. The Turkish War Oflleo today Issued an
olllclnl denial of the British nunoutu-ement of February 20 that General Aylmer
j had shelled Turkish, positions on the Tigris River and Indicted' heavy losses on
The following report on recent operations was also. Issued by the War, Office:
"The situation on the Irak front (Mesopotamia) is unchanged., On the Caucasus
front reronnniterliiR forces of the enemy made an attack on March 2G- We
inflicted, severe losses. On the Dardanelles front Turkish coast batteries rfapuled
enemy destroyers.'"
COLONEL DODD
Commander of the advanced
column now ridinp hard after
Villa, who is believed to be flee
injr southward from Namiquipu,
Mexico.
TURKS ORDERED TO QUIT ASIA MINOR BASE
ATHRNS, Muibh 27. Greek newspapers report that Turkish troops have
been oidered to prepare to evacuate Konla, tho town In Asia Minor which ha
been used an a supply base for tho Ottoman forces In Mesopotamia and Palestine.
GERMAN MUNITIONS SEIZED AT SHANGHAI .
SHANGHAI. China: March 27. Twenty-six cases containing 390 shells and
Three thousand additional AroeVi- direction of the Kiangnan Arsenal huve been heized hv thn nr,u,. a ,-.,,..
can troops, massed nt Columbus, N. I against the seizure was made by two Germans, who produced a document sealed
ny tno Minister or Murine, but as tlley bad no municipal permit the document
was Invalid. The Shanghai authorities cannot proceed against foreigners Impli
cated in llllult trading in arms without tho consent of their consulate, which la
not expected.
Continued on race lite. Column One
WANTS CHARGE DROPPED
Convict Who Escaped From Camden
Jail Seeks Clemency
William J, Brown, alias William J.
Gillespie, who' made a sensational escape
from the Camden County Jail In Camden,
July 18, 1910, has written to the New Jer.
sey State Board of Pardons, asking that
the vharges against him in Camden be
dropped. He states that his reformation is
complete.
Sentence Deferred Third Time
JUdge-Plcktnson, In the United States
District Court today, again deferred im
position of sentence upon John Knoell and
his son .George, contlcted of conspiracy
to conceal assets of Jlrs. Rosa Turet. a
bankrupt. This makes the third time that
sentence has been postponed, Postpone
ment was ordered today to give counsel
for the Knoells opportunity to advance
further reasons to the court for a new
trial.
M., were prepared today to march
into Mexico to reinforce the Pershing
expedition sent out to get Pancho
Villa.
Gen. Frederick Funston, in com
mand at San Antonip, admitted that
the Carranzn forces at Namiquipa
wero in effect hostile to the Ameri
cans nnd were rendering no aid in the
Villa hunt. He said Villa had es
caped through the supposed Carran
zista trap.
The outlaw leader and. his bund are
now reported fleeing southward
through the San Geronimo Canyon,
toward the Sierra Tarahumnre
Range. Near Namiquipa they defeat
ed the Carranza troops and escaped
the reported ring of iron.
American forces had not come with
in striking distance, according to re-
Cuutluued un I'ukc lour. Column due
APRIL 11 AND 28 SPRING ARBOR DAYS
In a formal proclamation Issued today nt Harrisburg Governor Brumbaugh
sets aside Friday, April H, and Friday. April 28, as spring arb6r days In Penn
sylvania, and urges that they bo observed by schools and the public in general.
- PORTUGAL IN WAR TO SAVE COLONIES
PARIS, March 27. In a. proclamation to tho Portuguese army.'says a lavas
dlspatoirfrotn-LIsuon the Minister of War asserts Germany aimed at the absorp
tion of Portugal's commerce and the belzuro of her colonies. These objects would
have been fully realized, tho proclamation bays, had It not been for the declara
tion of war. '
GERMAN AIR FLEET
ATTACKS SALONICA
Greek Soldiers and Civilians
Killed Fail in Raid on
Fleet in Harbor
Slayer Gets Seven Years
Augustine A. Burns, of Stb Btreec, near
Rltner. was sentenced by Judge Flnlettcr
In Quarter Seeaigns Court today to the
penitentiary for not less than seven years
nor more than eight, for the killing bf Al
fonso rl MUto. SI years old, of 801 Cona
tUn trst, Dl MUto wj shot on January
11, 1315- The shooting occurred &t tbe
borne Of Anna Giillau-lier, 18 ;ats eU. of
f (SI South l';xUli street,
SALONICA, March 27. In retaliation
for tho attack on Qeiman camps north of
the Greek frontier by a squadron ?f
French aeroplanes on Saturday, seven
Qerman aviators today bombarded Salon
lea from the air.
Four Creek soldiers and a number of
civilians were killed by borob and several
houses were destroyed, but little damage
was Inflicted on the Anglo-French mili
tary ttorea.
The German Itylators attempted to fly
over the Allied fleet In the harbor, but
the warships opened lire upon the at
tacking stpitulroji and it was compelled
to retire.
LONDON, March 27 A Reuter dis
patch from Salonica reports that tbe
largest munUton depot in, central Bulgaria
-was blown up Bundax Thirty men were-
kiUci and lev woumltd
STRIKE CLOSES RUSSIAN MUNITIONS PLANT
PETROORAp, March 27. An' official statement bays that the Duma eat
behind closed doors to iUscubs the interpellation addressed to tho Ministers of
"War and Cotnmqrce rega'rdiiyr the closing of the, Putjloff works. Tho Minister of
"War. General Polivan'off, guve the following explanation; "The men In the eleq
trlcal shops on February 17 demanded an increase In wages of 7Q cents. This was,
refused by the management as exorbitant, A strike hiving broken out, tbe mil
Itary authorities doled the works. An understanding, however, -was reached jrith,
the electricians and notices were posted offering to take back the men, TBer
works Were thi-n reopened Men in other workshops onJFebruary 24 formulated
demands similar to those previously refused, and not satisfied with an increase of,
35 cents, which was conceded, they, struck. The works, therefore, were closed
on March j and placed under control of the Ministry of War on March IS. Since
then the works haveoeen Idle, although fresh notices have been posted offering
to take the men back to wot-k."
SHACKLETON PARTY IN NO DANGER, SAYS AMUNDSEN
LONDON, March 27. A Central News dispatch from Chrlstlanla quotes Cap
tain Roan! Amundsen, the Norwelglan explorer, as, having said that the jnjnhm
of the Shackleton parly who were stranded at the' Ross Sea base by the nreaWog
away qf the auxiliary steamer Aurora were In no, danger of starvation, as there
was an abundance of game to be had there,
A Reuter dispatch from Wellington, New Zealand, says that Premier Ibauir
has received the following wireless mes&age, from J. R. Slenhouse, chief oje
of the Aurora: "The Aurora Is proceeding to Port Chalmers, New Zealand!, M
disabled condition as a result of her enforced ten months drift Jn tb ce. rr
winter quarters.'1 . n
"WEAR CITY COLORS TODAY," SAYS MAYOR SUltH
Today is "Philadelphia "lag Day and Mayor Smith wants eveyliJy t&
wear the city colors, azure blue and golden yellow, and wants business fantMa fi4
homes to fly the city's flag. It Is 21 yeara since Council passed a rewlatip HpJ--Ing
a. flag for Philadelphia,. "Jt swpuj proper," says th Jdyojn "that te S-ft'
When eyerjUnfluncj In being uUUitd ta cultivate patroii, in awttn IS p
Ilo mind to ilia tiigh value ot ainfirtcn jjBAltuUooa, mnaaBi, -ma" j W
iscia tribute ot baao? to tbs mt witfci stAbia tec m otf ! "
