THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Increasing cloudiness to-day, followed
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
by rain; rain and colder to-mor
Highest temperature yesterday, 6akv
Detailed weather, nirtll ami marine is
i
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 209.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1916. Copyright, lftlfS, bV the Nu Printing mbf PublhU-nffAtHOclntlan.
PRICE
I I I II I 11.11 - I
I -a-fafBjB-a. .
VILLA ESCAPES
MET; GARRANZA
MENNOT AIDING
Gen. IVrshing Beports Col.
J)oddis Chasing Bandits
(Southward.
TUOOrS 2.-.0 MILES
SOl'TH OF BORDER
Con. Kiinston Says Mexi-
cans Arc Not Cooperating
With Americans.
AMKIMCAX LEADER
LVSIM-KTS HIS LINES
I-st.'ililMies Sub-Base at El
Villi. Main Task -Mo
Locate Villa."
-.v ANTONIO, Tex, Mat'Cil '.'ii. The
f in- report (Ion. Funston bus re
it.veil from l'trslilng reached
. "jtlicrn Pcpartmcnt headqunrtprK to-
-..sht. (if'ii 1'ernhlni; nntiouncc.i that
.:a !i'no thioilKli the cordon of
ir.pr.. an ii"i which had him partly
.diiTO',. Tliri-e coliimnx of American
. v.,.r- under Col. Dodd arc chasing
n
T;i ' r.dit and his men are head- I
. : ie MiiiUra Valley, which runs i
from .the Xamlqulpa country j
:ja:d Guencro. Thu Americans are.
. ' m.)f Uiow the border and as far I
r i ,t. .huahu.i city.
1, i-tai'llshod that the Carranzis
.ire not operating with the Atner- .
l.ur- titi. Titnton decllnid.ti) glvo ,
iu- .( full text nf c;n. 1'ershltig'H
ii-jMe on thl point.
ti'"l Pcrhlng' colnpUtp statement
i mil l.ic.itlon of triMjps sas that
Itrff commit of cavalry are following
Tf jiitaiico columns as supporl, to be
n If needed. Two companlci of 1
rfir,'-' are nt C Vallo to protect i
r . ' nrtmnco twee.
Tit principal base Is now at C'as.is
tr.o. This means the two .om-l-
h . t iv, ..oldlcrs have marched 200
o . j tiie south.
" IV king's message said nothing
is-tns 1 r, Iroad and stated speclflcilly
a I . "n no fighting betutvu the,
w ''.d Amerlcanv.
wiring Sunday t!. ex-
'1 ' ., l"r h.'d comnletd a irln
"in icli 'he . ountry where the foremowt
r. ,. .,rr.. wa8 n0t ,m n impec.
" .i nmo despatches stated,
' i' lung round fur tactical
1 1 wa lining up" the coun
- .i U' able U tter to direct the
irl ;.- I .n n- from his sub-head-'
- .r i:i Valle.
Tie i;. nr.il declared In his message I
"lit ' i .i have settled down to the
i" of iindlng where Villa l."
T ' 'lata Is sustaining his rep-
" i ne fox of the Sierras" s
ei: i, lines of lien. IVishlug'H
'.i c headqu.irterH W at Kl
i lie infantry Is supplying
'.iin.st attack. Till" word
I. u : .CM, P. C. Cabell, chief
ii n Pershing, to Major
" in.uiiluig at Columbus, and
'ill i !en, Kunstnn.
.. t ie aei-oplancs ale out
- "ii I nv. the othetM having
'! Col. c.ibell ieiorted a
' - n for hois,-. This short
mui i labor utpl the
.fix lurks to till, as gialn
' most bulky at tides the
itu.it to transHirt.
Mtial tiuck ionii.inIes of
c ,i les e.uli, which were
w h by in.' War P, p.ut
i ,t into commission ut Co
.ind stinted on tho louif
mi
m,
t
0.
T
Tnoni'.s ii ;utiiy to
t TIE VP VI LUST AS
nil l,i,
I lie lor Weeks or I'ulll
sinrved Hut,"
v., Match Puncho,
e .i.iiidlts continue to elude
''id t'mtcd Stule.s troops
a-' .riling to advices re
v the Juarez military
' v i !i,te that Villa had
enie.ng San Ueronlmo
1 . Iiim ly by the American 1
'J . Podd and thu Car-
f Col Cano.
- raid lo he ISO miles
jt ii to the country hoiith
liiideavnus of Villa lu
in d i lie Pl.iz iiirales, and
of such a nature that
nun inn live in It for
'Ml they diovo In enough!
f'ni'1 of the men. There Is
' Jiigh for the tiorses und
r
f i
' r t
.to. I
'JlltOI
T'e ,
"i.
li '
T
"If fl,
, tr.iv ,
"i watei, according to scouts
" t lm ( ountry.
' Klit told of "trouble" be.
uerieaii cavalry roluttin at
ie rialeana Valley, south
'i isr.iiulfs, and the native
t". valley The report
ii'isons in louch with the
1 n. i running south of Juarez.
Wail
li t".j
"'n t
v i,
. ,,r .
'Jtro f
H I in eiil Hhnwn.
Tie I.., , Hi, lh(, AmcPcarl
' -'l nilly being well received
w ifii' . . u ,... ...... .
f(t t .'in inil .i:vaBi.illllll7
i0,., oot'-i i '.s,.,ii iiirii, nuown
..?'' II II Ui.s wl l'l ',.ll that
-It Hh.'lllll ..l.l 1,1 ...n,..w,.a Ir. I.ld rlll..
"e v.iimiu .t..i
Moi1ia'? '""' 11 I "Ul'I'oied that, he
i ,',' - ' " " lotiif enough to poison tha
mi,. 1f V'' """ves against the Amerl-i1..,-m
i ""' '"' lia-- lermi-1 "Irivadera nnd
iLltt'llfrs. '
I '-t.V.'V'- ann'rl that thr re is a mif.
I 'l xMr ' Bouthern
lur. "''", ,:,'oiilnio Canyon to cap
This I """Hi" when they emerge,
i,,; ""ever, Is not a Rurprintn-r iMe.
,mr the Carranilitaa, who have
Co'ttdtiied on Third Pap:
VILLA FLEEING SOUTH.
'. . Troup lnralua; Itaadlta
Kidnap .Men lor Arm.
lit.V. I'SnmilNd'H ItRADqtMRTGlm, C'A-
iA Ohandeb, Mexico, March 26 (by
wireless to Columbus, N. M.). Ucn. Per.
ehlng, who returnx lo headquarter to.
nlBht, reports that Villa In retreating
further couth. The United Stntes forces
are. pursuing him closely.
The bandits left their wounded behind
them anil kidnapped thirty Mexican,
forcing them to serve, In the nrmy.
WILSON A GRANDPA AGAIN. ;
Mr. anil Mrs. Franola H. Havre
Have a llauahter. I
Pllli.Atir.l.rittA, March 26. A second I
granddaughter has ben born to Pres.!
Ident Wilson. The child Is the (laughter i
of Mr. arsl Mrs. Francis 11. Sayre of
Wllllnmstown, Mass., anil was born In
the Jefferson Hospital early this morn-
mg.
The baby has been named IMcanor
Axson Kay-re, In honor of her inattrnal
grandmother. Mr. Sayre, the father, ar
rived hero to-night. The Ptesldent unit
Mrs. Wilson wired their congratulations
and It Is expected that Mr. Wilson will
make, a visit here this weik to sen his
daughter nnd granddaughter.
Mrs. Hayre was Miss Jessie Woodrow
Wilson before her rnarlngn to Mr. Kay re,
whi) Is now the assistant to President
narlleld of Wllllnms College. William"
town. Mass. Their drat child, a son,
.un. itiii'iu iianieeu mounts ago in j
the White House. '
PEACE CALL FOR LABOR. ,
liompers Aaka I'nlonn In ll
Coanlrlra lo Send DeleHatea.
Wabiiinuto.v, M.uvli 2,;. A call has
been Issued to the organized tabor unions
of all countries to send deleeatew to a '
!.alor's World Peace Congress, to lie
held simultaneously with the peace con
gress that the nntlons now at war will '
ultimately hold, and In the .ime city.
Samuel (lumpers, president of the
American Federation of I.alor, Is Issuing
the call. The labor congress, according
to the plan, will formulate demands to '.
be served upon tho peace representa
tives, demands which will assure or
ganized labor fuller rights in nil the
nations.
OFFICER KILLS SELF
IN ARMORY ACCIDENT
Lii'iit. I'otors in rioaniiiH: lte-
volvor Fnils to Heinovo ,
All Ctirtrltlfrcs. !
Jtobert M. Peters, 32 years old, of S
St. Charles place, who wan Second Lieu
tenant f Company C, of the Twenty
thlid Iteglment. New York National
iuard. shot and instantly killed himself
esterduy morning in the llrooklyn
armory. P.eglmental nnd liollce otllci.ils ,
say that the shooting was acclilental.
N( gleet to see that all the caitrldges had
In en u moved from his revolver before
attempting to clean It Is believed to have
caused tile accident. '
Lieut. Peters went to the armory yes
terday morning about in o'clock and
asked the armorer, C.eorge Itryant, for
rags and oil to clean his revolver, lie .
exhibited a .14 calibre Coifs r, volver.
his own piopitt. Lieut. Peters spoke
also to Michael ileimett, the aimory en
gineer. A few minutes later both men
heard a shot and I ashed Into Company (!
quarters, wheie they found the Lieu-,
ter.ant lying on the Ho.ir nnd the revolver
with a single shell and that exploded ly
ing beside htm. The live other cartridges
were on the table.
Co!. Frank II. Norton of the Twenty. '
third Iteglment scuffed at the Idea tliat
the shooting was Intentional. It- said
thai Lieut. Peters had failed to exnmltie
tile revolver to see that all rhambeis
weie empty before pulling the trigger.
Otllcers and men of the teglment say
that Lieut. I'eteis was an exemplary offi
cer He Is survived by hi widow, Mr.',
Florence peters. They had been married
live )eats, but had no children, Mrs.
peters was at the home of her father at I
til Franklin avenue last night under the
care of a physician.
AGAINST PUNITIVE INVASION.
.Mexican expedition Invites Dis
aster. Saa ('ollgreasmun Loudon.
"Any countty that attenipts the In
vasion of another country must In-,
evltahly bring disaster upon Itself," said
Congressman Meyer Loudon esterday,
speaking liefoie the voters of his din
trlct In Sewaul Park School In Hester t
street, Then .Mr, London compared the
punitive expedition lu Mexico with Alls-'
tria'H prnjia-ial to punish Serbia for the)
assassination of n Orand Puke which
btought on the F.uropean war.
He reviewed his work III Congress forj
the past month, As a Socialist he Is
opposed to Increasing tho nrmy and
navy, but he Mild In nnswer to a qiies-,
Hon that In can,' of war the Socialists
of thW country would fight Just as did
the Socialists of F.uropc. Tho meeting j
adopted a resolution supporting Mr.
Ixiudon lu Ids attitude on questions now
being tllscusel in tho Houso.
TURKS DYING OF HUNGER.
tantlnople NeHspnper Iteporl.
Vllsery mona lltlntnana
,r'af r.iblf Pti(Uch lo Till Stx
1iiNPON. March -J7. The Salonlca cor.
lespondent of the n(i Ghrnnlcln quotes
the Constantinople newspaper Tfritfn as
saying that Hie people In the Turkish
capital an: dying of hunger, and that the
conditions lu Constantinople. Ilioiissa,
Ancora and Smyrna ran only lie do.
scribed as condltlonB of "black misery."
"We uro becoming exhausted militarily
In tho face of our redoubtable enemies."
Hie Turkish newspaper says, "while eco.
nomliallv we sen the menacing spectre
of famine. Thousands of unemployed
wander miserably seeking work and am
unable to find It. I'enpto nave in ngiu in
Ket bread. It Is Impossible to supply
the people of the capital with provisions."
NEW BELGIAN GRAY BOOK OUT.
II, a. Cltlarua Conflrn. Mercler'a
Charaea of (iermaii Afrorltlra.
Fpeclot VobU Ptipateh to Tnr Sin.
Homk, MBrch 2. The lielglan Oov.
eminent Is Issuing Its third (Iray Hook,
confirming Herman ntrocltlea which were
denounced by Cardinal Mercler, nnd
conlnlnUig evidence obtnliirsl from neu
tral eyewitnesses. Including Amorlcan
cltlzenr. ,
An advance copy already haa been
ant to Pop Benedict,
MRS. HORTON
IS TARGET IN
WAITE INQUIRY1
Swumfs Efforts Centre onj:i Seaplanes and a De
Woman Case Against stroyer Lost in Attack
Dentist Complete.
PRISONER MOVED AS
SUICIDE PRECAUTION
Pesplu, repeated assurances from the
District Attorney's office that the caiie
against Dr. Arthur Warren Walte, .
chaig.d with killing his father-in-law, j
John K. Ptck. by poisoning. Is practl-!
cany le.uly to preent to a grand jury,
Assistant PIstMct Attorney Pooling and
others working on the cne are spending'
hour after hour hammering questions
"amc h,,ve neen drftw"
Into the case.
So far as further exanr.r.atlon of
Walte himself Is concerned, the District
Attorney's forces seem to Ignore him
and are giving all their tlmi to pound
ing questions at Mrs. Harry Mack Hbr
ton, the cabaret singer who was In com
munication with Dr. Watte white he was
in (Jrand ItanliM with Mr, Peck's body
and hurriedly gave up a loom tit thu
Plaza Hotel which she and I.V Walte .
had takrii and then w. ut Into seclusion
. " , , , , . . ,
ut tho home of Mis. Por-.thy May '
j-aimennerg in el .sieve nty-seconu
st.eet until found by detectiM-..
Kvcn though yetrday wa
Sum nv ,
and Mr. IVioilng was suffering fmm
soreness of the neck which lequlres
many head bandage", he and Detective,
CunnllT were closi ted wltb Mts. Hor
ton's filend, Mrs. Van Palmenberg, dur- 1
Ing both the forenoon and afternoon. I
while stenographers took copious notes.
Whatever the nature of the qu.stlona
they caused Mrs. Van Palmenberg to
rale her voice high as the protested j
her answer". Whin she came from the
District Attorney's office out Into the I
deserted roirhlr late In the afternoon,
accompanied by Detrctlve Cuniilff. her
face was lluslud and he gae only a
short, angry nnswer to thine who would
question her futther
(lilt of To it n Trip llelrrred.
She and Mrs. Hortou had announced
on Saturday morning that they Intended
to leave town, and when they went to
the District Attorney',, otllce they had
i a number of mit cases and other bag-
gaue with them In a taxlcab. Hut
evidently the two women either changed
their minds tibout leaving the ilty or
they had receded other Instructions, for ,
they are still here, and It Is not prnb-
able that
thc- will go away for
time.
"Did Mra. Horton know of the Pecks
nerore the death or .vin.. Pocn?' Mr.
Pooling mi" atked yenfrrlay.
"Ves, she had heard of them e.nly
lu acquaintance with Pr Walte," win
the answer.
' Pld she know that .Mr PeiU was
wealthy?"
"Ves Pr. Walte had told her that. '
Mr. Pooling riAilltsl.
"Is Mrs. Hortou now under suhp'rua?"
"Ye.'
Mr. Pooliig had said on Saturdav
that Mis ll.ii Ion was with Pr Walte
on occasions, when he olitaltied ilons,
but that she had no litiowlnlge that the
dentist wuh getting arsenic and other
poisons on these trips.
"Pld file mid Pr Wmte illsvu.-s si.
sons at any tlna?" reporters asked Mr.
Pooling ycstenlnv
"I can't answer that question,' as
the reply
After i is ti'tn. exam. oat, -mi of Mrs.
Van Palmeiibeig esteiila.v Mr pooling
S.llll II' 11 IH 111.' II 17.11I1L- Mie.llL'lll II..I1IM
,,, u.., s " , . . . .... .
; " ' ' , ...... r...
hmvevet. be got in ton, h wl h Frank
Walte. biother or the dent st, who.
thronm, Waiter Prew. lawyer. I,.,; n-k.,i
l lstric. Attoiney Swam, whether or not
t ie stale wo,,!.! accept ond deg.ee
plea from the ai ciise.l man. The juesent
attitude of the State Is to Inslsi that Pr.
vi.. i.. i... i. ..,1a. ...i i ...- .
, .,it- i,- iiMiiiu', , tino uiru ir iiuinier
III the llrst degiee.
Mr. Pooling and I'mul; Walte then
went from the questioning of .Mrs. Van
Palmenberg to Itellevtie and saw Pr.
wane. j ne dentist, whi-c return lo
health conllmK" steadily, asked Mr.
pooling soon lifter the Assistant Plstviel
Attorney and Frank Walle entered the
prison w.ud If lie could see Mis Hoitiui,
Ho wiih told that he would have to wait
until lo-il,iy for an nnswer lo his irqiieit.
t.eiieriiua Offer I'riini tanl,
It Is known that Miss Catherine Peck.
nlstir of John H. Peck, has said that If
nr. vvaue will retract Ills story that he' and raided loenuerii, when, they
got arsenic for Mi. Peck becaue Mr , dropped bombs on the Zeppelin shed.
Pet k wanted to commit suicide and did. i which found their mark, Two sea
according to Pr. Walte's storv she , planes, however, were shot down"
will penult the Waltv- to spend in Pi. Svn ,,. rr,r(,.
Watte's defence the flli.iiiin, a mlt of
tJO.nuli which Pr. Wnlte got pom Mlssl "The .tiiinis Nl(.itlli)ne stabs that
Peck to Invest for tier mid ihen sent in n twenty-five miles from Hshjerg Usher
brother In tliand Itatilds.
There were reasons to believe, there.
foie. that I'l. ink Walte accompanied the
iirupriitiir to thf rt-ntfi'M i-nt nt HiivL- I
last nlghi to help Mr. Pooling in his ef1 "The paper s correspondent at Fsbjerg
forts to obtain n cumpVio confession ! h'iy Vmt ."T !'r"1,"" , "luadron was
from Pr. W.ille. Mr Pooling remained ,""r, l.1,""for,1v vessela -jtrong. Including:
with the dentist an.l his biother for nn'TT"1 ' niorrliantmen. Pre
hour and then left after asking Drj iml''0' to the main ac Ion twelve flrlt
xr.ai.s l-ireirorv to h.-.v . r Ir VV.I... r...
,',,,, tMn ,f ,v;(r, , private
I.,... ... .,, . l 1 i,.. ... I. I ...I.I
IIMIHI lli--.llit.il. ru ,mi. I'Ulfllllr, P.llll, IN
!.?il.M!.,!ri,.M.C,,M h J"01"" '"l'"IC ,0 C0""l
mlt suicide,
Frank Walte remained with tho den
list for an hour and a half after Mr.
Pooling's departure. Whether or not
Dr. Walte had finally consented to sign
a confession could not be learned from
Frank Walle, When at S o'clock last
night Mr. Walle finished his long talk
with Ids hiolher the dentist called to
a nurso and got sumo cotton front her
to wlpu the tears that were, hi ream Ing
down his cheeks.
The denllsl was also visited by hU
mother yesterday afternoon for tho first
time, his father und Frank Wnlte, ac
companying her. Mrn. Walte wiih mo
overcome, that she hud In bo helped to
a waiting automobile. During the sub
sequent visit of Mr. Pooling and Frank
Walto the dentist spoko clearly enough
on anything and everything except when
the accusations against him were
brought up.
Ho spoke affectionately of his wlfn
and kindly of Miss Catherine, peck. Ills
anxiety lo havn a talk with Mrs. Hor
tou was evident, Mut the moment the
conversation was brought back to any
thing hearing upon tho death of Mr. and
Mra. I'erk he would becomo "drowiy"
Conttnutd on Fifth Page.
BRITISH RAID !
GERMAN COAST I
BY AIR AND SEA!
Made on Schleswig.
TWO GERMAN PATHOL
VESSELS ARE SHsK
Vi-on Coktf Dfrpatfh to Tnr. Six
I.onpon, March 27. Fngtund gave her
tw ,rf,ctlv. nnswrr Sulurdiiv mnrntna
t c.ermnn air raids. A (squadron of
nVe seaplanes, convoyed by light cruisers 1
a, dvstruyerx, crowed the North Seal
aml visited the home of the Ucrmati
,,1..,.,, ,vi,lch have frenuenllv vl"ltcd the
j ;,1 J-U ooa" t of late, tno j
tn.... It,.nb.l ft.- Ilnein.il u I ft.! 1 1 1 1
sheds in Kehl-vswig east of the Island of
Svlt. They vvcie met, however, by an
ift'ectlve antl-alrcruft defence, while
in-ii convoys wen engaged uy i.enuan
irmed trawlers outside the haibor of .
Slt. Only two of the llrlllsh planes re-
turiu-J , ttie three others, Including a
battle plan-, were brought down, accord,
lug to an olllclal statement l.ued at Mer
lin. ..v..lr' ! i .. !:,...(.,'!;;.."..;..', i .:.ili
Stoimy weather prevailed, and In tin
'""." ..' .:. . . "".;..", . ' . ....
uesir"r .leiiusa niuiiini mi
Kh uttuier Laverock. The M.'dUsa
i,ellev,il to have been lost Tile ( !ellnan. .
, T ' , T
., . i,. ..... . j . . , ' .....i ...... i,.i,.ir I
. ' ,"."ili.svii.wiK .in.. ..... ......
The Itritlsh official statement follows-
The Admiralty report" an attack
by HiltNli seaplanes S.niiMl.iy nnrn
lug on the Herman airship shed" In
Schleswlg-llolstehi to the east of the
island of S It
The seaplanes were eouvoed to the
trndezvoim off the Herman coast by
an escorting fori f light cruisers
and destroeis under Commodore Tjr
nhltt. Three of the seaplanes are missing.
The llrltlsli destrojtr Midus.i came in
collision with the destroyer 1,'iverock. It
Is feared that lu the stormy weather
which prevailed Saturd ly 'ulght the ,
Medusa was ot. No misgivings are
felt with resiird to the rarity of the
crew. Two Cerman armed patrol e.".
els were Mink by our ilesttoyet ".
No ili lall.-d t, port has as yet been
received, hut from vcmIoiih In the pan
Ish press It would appear that the op-t-rat
Inn, which was carried out within
the enemy's waters, achlev.il Its ob-
Ject.
The raid forced the tietman Admiralty
to make known for the tlrst time the
' "home of the seaplanes which have
been terrorizing Kngllsh coast towns and
recently visited Dover twice. Tim loca-1
Hon f tin- airship sheds "somewhere In
Selileswlg nan been Kept rret. 1 low it
became known
to tl.r Itritlsh is a '
mystery.
The lie) man Admiralty's account of
the raid Is as follow s :
Five Knsllsh hydtoplaiies from a
miser squ.idtoti and destroyer flotilla
attaeked our airship sheds lu northern
Schleswig Time. Including a battle
plane, were brounht down m the
Island of Sj It Five occupants wer
taken piisonels. Itombs were dropped
on the tielghboi hood of Ho) erschleuse.
wa.i done.
I.'IO Wnrslllpa Seen.
The Copenhagen corusKindent of ttie
linlhj .We', telegraphs:
"In addition to those which visited
Toeinlein othel aeroplanes were seen
further south, evidently aiming ut Wl.
hclnrshaviii or Ihudeii
"Ffhllig ctltleis teport tn.it on Sun- !' ' t,, , nasa(v'ale .nsti.ntl) that we
day evening they s,,w about lift) tier- n Mown up. hut I was t serl
m ilt and eighty Kngllsh warship" at sa 1 ... ,U ., in., tnole
.. .. . . .. ... .... ... . ....
' ''- v arruips ai sea
evere cuinonaiiing was again heanl
Monday night from Fance to lhjerg."
A desoiteh from Conenlmeen lo.at,
the tiaval tight l'tween iVritisr nnil (!er-
man Hqua.ltons (on Saturday) at I.e.
,,.. ,wen,y.(lve and thlity mile. f.m
land and llf n mile, south of the
tiraadvn lightship. Five iteimau t-
. .
seis. tne oespatcn sa.vs, were seen to be
atlie.
The Copenhagen correspondent of tin
Unity .Willi sa" In a later telegtam to.
night :
"Several miles off the Island of Fame
Ihei. was lighting Saturday between a
llrltlsh Hiuaitiou of twenty ships and a
Herman squadron of live cruisers and
twentv destrnvcrs and two Zennellns.
A number of (lernian aeroplanes aio
took part In the engagement,
"Two Herman vessels were disabled,
the remainder retired behind the Island
of Itoem. on the west coast of Schleswig.
During the fight several Itritlsh sea-
pianos suddenly rose from the warships
'men sighted the opposing squadrons,
.The thick, snow y weather mipe.icil the
view .but tiring was heard fot twenty ,
rnlllUtOB,
"U oesirojeis nix. I-riony got neiween
f,".l.r..,'0.r.mi1". ,,"'lr0,,?r ""'j HelKolund
ri.eHer.naim were, ompelled to Meam
I II x H li r I l'lllllLl
...,.-,-J i. a .
III...
"' " Wrt' hat part of this flo.
tllla has been destroyed, but there Ii
no ronllrmnilim of this repot! yet,
TNiree llrltlsh cruisers on Kunday'ln-,
specled lllanvaud, northwest ... I'sbjerg.
but Immediately afterward steamed In a
southwesterly direction."
A desimtch from Copenhagen quotes
the llrrtintkr Tintrnitr as mylng;
"It Is reported Hint five aeroplanes
threw bombs on Toendern, seventy-four
mlle'a north of Cuxhaveit, There uro
Zeppelin sliedH at Toendern."
Toendern Is slightly lo the southeast
of Hoyer. a few mites Inland and due
eiiHl of the centre of Sylt,
Sylt Is one of the North Frisian
Islands, off the west coast of Schleatv lg.
Hoyer Is a small place, twenty-six, miles
southwest of the punish town of HI he.
Sehlcuse Is Orrinan for sluice or 'water
gate.
The raid is slBiiltlciint for Hie possi
bilities It opens now that the ability
of llrltlsh Hetnjflanr carrying warships
to leach tlni (lennnti coast has been
demonstrated, The distance fmm Sylt
lo Kiel Is about eighty-five iitlli-n, to
Cuxhaven about eighty miles, in Urcm
erhaven about 110 miles and to Wlllielm
haven about ,100 miles.
THREE AMERICANS
SUSSEX
(J. S. CONSUL BLAMES A SUBMARINE
SUSSEX HORROR i
DESCRIBED BY
ANEYEW1TNESS
Edward .Marshall Saw Men
Blown to Hits, Women
and Children in Agony.
siriM,' Sll'mi i 1MW
( , M J.U1(LJ.
llf lit ll I t. I IIA IV I tU ft
" '' " U. Ll.
lirrenlili I. presented the full slot). by
lh, channel steamer J..e I.) a sub-
marine r mine. This aeenimt, part of
nldrli aimrr, In Till: M'N yesterday,
part haling heen held up li) ttie rrnsorshlp
and h rahle delay, Mas written for TIIK
, ''hall, an American
newpuM-r ri.rrr-puiMlrnt who was aboard
the il..e, He drserlhra the liorrHjInt
7 -
".' """"" "'."!"
M-enes fAlbmlng the riplmlnn, the siilfrr.
ami uie a(itn or nailing lor rescue r
,l..l. M- M.-.I...H in...
tenth, Mr. Marshall helieiea a siilimarlne
vra responsible for the altMe.
It) IIIIWAItlt XIAItHAI.I..
iTi'; VitMf nrtp.Hr, In Till: Si".
LoN'noN', March I", Oerniany may
have dellb, rately struck a blow designed
to array America against her when she
(torpedoed In the Kngllsh Channel .ves
j terday the sttnnier Sussex, known to
. be carrying something like tneuty-dvc
Americans.
It Is impossible ai this tuns to at.tte
certainly the exact number of those
l who hi,, dead, but it i" definitely known
I that on- Ameriian a dead find that two
I are lying dangerously Injured lu a hot.
pitul at Dover.
There Is no doiiol in my mind that
the vessel was torpedotd. I mv"ef did
not see the approach of the torpedo,
hut I lion il one of the higher otheeis
of the ship say to a man on board that
he had seen It, and tin) quartermaster,
who vi.is nti the bridge with the cap
tain, statid to a friend of mine that
he, the captain and otbets on tho brldgx
had mii the wake of thy toinedo nnd
had -de en d .In ship n, that "tie niulii
if
po.-slllli
, scape
Theorj
VI I lie
I Mfollllileit.
Tliele Ml.tls to U' ..l.solutejy HO Slip.
pmi for the ll atltnr mine llnory and
, veiy poss.,.1 siii'poit for tli. torp'iio
tlnor) Not long hefore the shock came
we had passed Heating w nvk.me, hull,
fating the des'l'IICIlon of l Vessel. Till"
Itotsa.ii siemcd li' baled toliaceo,
but that N a mii ! guess Concerning
the i.letitlt) of th. s,att,ied ship I have
Isen im.it!. to ham an) thing.
Th" Sussex was ti. next vliiiui 1
had Just declliinl an Invitation to co
below for luncheon, thinking that th"
dining saloon would 1" less i row tied
latet. when the shock . anie The effect
was extraordinary. The smoking room
1" small, (ontamii a four oi !H
table
1. at one of tliem, was v.
ilci.iltclv
. k . , tn,
V. ....... i... ,, u r -.veo feet from
""V ," ' ... ,, ,.. ., .ho, hg
wliele 1 sat a lieav mall was snot nign
V'V'lfnn'whh??!.!".'
"''V'1"1 r ,"'nl ' , , 1 1" .' w , n r , f
ln '"Yr"""
1 do tint know whv he wa thtow n anil
1 Wl1" ,""'
I oen ii nv sound
lr.
I It col.lse I llllllled to tile olltel' ltc( k.
The sun was shining luiglitly. I he sa
was very far from lough, nnimaled by
nothing tuiue than a gentle swell Hut a
strange iiiifuiinv sound was lu the nlr,
vibrant and chilling.
I heard a iimuii fiom the "hip's mm
I''"1'
Then vteu no s.ti'Mins; tne tales
.,f mad isiiiic are not true, nun ttere
..s no wild HI amble for the boats.
Capt .Mouflet was on the bridge. The
quartermaster to whom I have referred '
"Captain, 1 saw a torpedo mmlng and
tried to sheer the ship away from It, but
the effort came too late."
I was unable to find any reliable
passenger who even saw the wake of
the projectile
Probablv the vecl w.is struck Just
aft of the bow " U''' 1,11,1 ""'
shuck wii" directed ngan-t her very cut
water. Sninelhliig less tnan a third and
. ... tin,,, ., ...n.r.er
. ,., Wa cut off n" with a mighty '
p h'l 'Cached I he outer deck In
time to see this severed stnion or tne
vessel before it rlmvly and unseiiation.
ally Jinnk,
SHU them vvora no ecieami, but the
curious tnoiui, as of many people in
slow pain, grew louder. The women
kept their beads amazingly. Mrs. Dor-
... 11...... . .I...pl,....ln.
I ,. .. , ' ' ",n " J, V n, W .
lav, oi .ins. - -
n.ous In New York, cum up to me,
"I can't find my daughter!" she ex.
claimed.
Deck unrpl tir filant Wave.
I had seen her walking with a beau-
Hful young gilt of 2S and 1 went with
. i.a ....,. li. -.Ai.ee. I iiiii -
Ai.i nnt Hud hnr inivwhete.. This
search was made illtllcult by a curious chamber of nr. old fashioned torpedo."
cause. Tim explosion had raised a' OMIclals of the Dominion Line stated
mighty mass of water from the sea ,.,..,,. a except five or six of the
and blown It backward ovir the sh hi. ... , u.
It con'pletVlv mlse-nl the forward pr. ctew of the sleamshlp Lngllshinau, w hlch
Hon of the "reinalnlng deck space, hut I was torpfiloed ami sunk on Friday, have
rushed along I he space aft of nmldshlp" been lauded. Three boats got away
with the volume and force of a heavy sea. I mMv , ,,, ,VPll, t.it. The fit Kt
KSKkKJCi' "'"""
and as I am lame this complicated the was half a mile away from the Ihigllsh
search for the young Ameticaji git I. ! num. It struck the vitrei, hut did not
I did not see Mrs. Hilton again for htuU H,,. The submarine then went to
li long tune, i in it son ciiine .o me nun
told me thill her daughter was not
on the ship und some one said she had
gone off In one of the boats, It seemed
.wise for the distracted molhoi s sake
to confirm the rumor, nnd I did mi, ui.
though I had no ground for It.
Tho crowds about the bouts had be-
come dense Immediately nftet the
Sltllitieil pause which lonone.i .no ex.
plosion, Fiom I ho very first I had
CotillHurd on Second Pagr.
DISASTER; FOUR INJURED;
pHREE Amcficntts were lost on the Channel steamer Sussex, accord
ing to latest reports from London nnd Pnris. The names of these
persons, who hnve not yet heen accounted for, arc as follows:
American! Mining-.
IIALDWIN. Prof. James Mark, Baltimore and Paris.
HAI.DVVIN, Miss Elizabeth.
I'ENNELL. Calliope Anastnsia, t East Forty-fourth street. Now
York.
Americana Injured.
ARMITAGE. Joshua D., New York, injured.
BALDWIN, Mrs. Helen, Baltimore; leg broken.
CROCKER, George II., Jr.. Fitchburc, Mass.; skull fractured.
I'ENFIELI). Dr. Wilder C... Hudson. 'Wis; leg fractured, head
injured.
SUSSEX WAS TORPEDOED,
IS WORD TO WASHINGTON
U. S. Consul at Dieppe Asserts German Submarine Is t
Responsible for Attack on Channel Steamer
With Americans Aboard.
WAblllM.io.v .Match 2il There are
further liiilii'.'itlons lieie lo-nlght that
thu jelatlons between (Sermaiiy and the
I'nlted States are likely to reach a criti
cal stage as a result of the torpedoing
of the llritlrh steamer lhigllshman mid
the Channel liner Sussex.
oitlclal confirmation, backed by the
statement of tin French Minister of
Marine, lh.it thu Sussex was tnrpedoid
admittedly gives another grave turn to
the situation. I'nles" subsequent In
vestigation ill-proves facts already prac
tically established by pielinilnary re.
ports, olllclal" say, Ptesldent Wilson will
have no alternative but to admit that
ilermaiiy has broken her pledge and
guarantees to the Culted States oil the
submarine question.
Tin President's "strict accountability"
note and the long iliawn out diplomatic
correspondenre between the I 'tilled
Slates and Herman tlovcrnnietits are
obviously relegated to the b ickgioilfnl,
It Is explained. Plllclahi evplain that
tin re remains only the possibility of the
(crmaiis Justifying their course by prov-I-
g that both the Ihigllshinan and the
Siis"ex offeied resistant e to attacks.
AMiil.ivtls from passengers aboard tho
Sussex give no hint that this could have
been the case lu respect to that Vessel.
Pair fsenila Iteporla.
Several report from Ambassador Pace
ill I... nip. ll have reicheil the State pe-
! P'irtrilent Th" Ambassador lu one of
them savs li Sti-sex Is "repotted to
have I n totpe.lixil." Mr Pag, says
that three Aniertciiis wen b.nlly in
jured. Tiley i,iv .VI', s l.llr.aheth II lid
win of Riltlin..ic and Paris. Wild,:- C.
I'entleld of lluil-on. Wis., and iSi-or.'c
II. Cmehei, Jr. of Fltiiibiirg. Muss.
Anolher r.poil fioni Ambassador
Page irlves further detail" aiiiP.nld" that
a number of Ainei leans have not be, n
accounted for It state" that there was
no warning hefon th explosion oc
curred Amb.issailoi Sh.'up .n Palls ha" ror-
port of the American Consul at Pl. ppo
-latltig that Hie Sussex was turpi doed.
The Ambassador reports that one of the
Americans. Samuel Muni", a llarvanl
graduate. ,ahi he Ipid s,.,ti sever.il per
son" killed b) th' exi.tos.on. ilcinis alo
asserts In saw the wake of the torpedo.
Among the lli.-t sworn statements of
pa-sengel'S telegl. Hilled to til. Slate pe-
fiattniett bv Amb.i-sador Page vias a
joint atTlil.ivll slKlie.l bv Fraiei" I'..
Drake and I'd ward S Huxley of N'.w
Vork. Tile .illl.lav t, ,u ..ait, follows.
"At live minutes pan thice when we
were about an hour and a half from
Folkestone We were seated oil I lie deck
talking a little less than half wa) back
r.li mi' n.ll no.ir.l : i vvpiioii' 'he
slightest warning theie oicuned a loud
louring explosion wreckage and tons
of water wen thrown into the air higher
than the masts and the water r.mie down
on the bo.it a fir back a tin stern,
We Weill foiw.it. I aid saw the entire
fin waul pail of Hie ship, Including pari
of the hr dgc and the forwaid mast,
gone.
"Some men ami women Jumped o,i
hoard at once and we thiew over rafts
and seats to them. Wc went Hun lo
help the men and women lulu the life
boats and afterward to help the woiinde.1
out of the debris Wi saw at bast tlf.
teen severely wounded and helped with
five ourselves. Among thesn were Pr
I'entleld nnd Miss lial.lwln. Altogether
six boats were l.umi bed.
"One of these capsized with lis p.s-
PROOF U BOAT SANK
TUBANTIA FOUND
Dutch Atliniriilty sa..- rnm
mcnts of Toi'pctlo Wore
.Mokeil l'p.
.;ri.i t 'itVe iSr.'r lu Tin m
Lii.si'ON, March "' The Ihiilji Malfn
Kotterdatn j-oiretpoiiilent Hiegraplif;
It Is tiov ."tlnltely known that the
'Dutch liner Tuhmtla was lorpedoed.
The Dutch Admiralty states thai ftag -
m(,n!() of br()M0 (V,. fml(, , ,,,
I ,lff hunts
They belonged 16 the ilr
'the ut lie I side and llrc.l a second torpedo.
'Tills also was Ineffective ind she finally
, fired Iwcnly-slv sheila at the Ihtgllsh
,,, hctnro th,, ulilp sank,
1 T. p.tsh sleanmltlp Si. Cenlia a"
(, to.(ay. nPr ,.rew tnu, saved. Tin
m Cei Ilia t.illc. fmm I'ortl.uid, Me. lo
London on Maich 11. She was a vesse. of
j sU ions net ami was htillt ill P.il.'l
The llrltlsh steamship I'cnai llildge,
which sailed .March IS from Phlladel
phla for Hull, also has been sunk.
FEARED DEAD IN
scngers. W suppose nv,n.. nve ,n
thirty people were lot with this boat
We lowerul one boat ourselves. Of the
remaining five boats three were tilled
with passengers and were standing off
tun yards Of the other two one was
nearlv full of water and contained only
five tin ii. We did not mo the sixth
bivit. Wc know of ord.. three Am'rlcanr
who got Into the lifeboats, Mr. and
.Mrs. Italdwiti nnd M'ss llnldwln.
"About dusk a sailing v about
three miles, away which l.ad been stand
ing by for some time was signalled by
rocket and waving of blankets.
"At least thirty exploding rockets
with colored Hares were sent up. but
the ship continued her course and dls
appealed In the distance.
"The hollers remained Inta.!, ...t we
cn .Id see the
urn from them ' and
ths ib-ctr
lights burned until we left
the ship. At II '.m a French ship came
up ami tooK on the women ami cnu- . ,,i.,i
was' unconclous.!,e ! "' "'"'" f victlnis of the d.avier
"The captain port.sl Ids helm h.is and I i" "till uncertain. Scvcnty-tvvo tur
In a few seconds more would have es- vivors have been landed at Dover and
caped It No I fel-lts were given to tho R0 !lt n,,nogne. There are three dead
pas.eiiaers au.i we uninu tnein wnn great,
dllliculty after the explosion had taken
place. In our opinion .the explosion took
place about fifty feet from the bow nnd
apparently on the starboard side.
"We solemnly swear that the above
statement Is true to the best of our
knowledge and belief."
Iteporl From I'arU Kmhaaay.
Ambassador Sharp reported as follows
to tin State Department!
"The following report na received
from the consular agent at Dieppe-
"Cross Channel steamer Sussex com
Ing to Plippe W.I" toipedo.'.l at I '.11
till" atiernooii six maritime mile" on
Piick. SSfi pas.-engers and lUty-flve
crew. Wireless help mil" wet. received
for ten minutes. Torpido boat lias ar
rived on tin sCelle ' "
Mr. Shaip add.-.l that the consular
agent telephoned at noon that the Sus
sex was being towed Into lioulogiic and
later that '.'SO passengers had been
landed. The acenl understood that from
. rU,v '" eihy Persons had been killed
"r '"Jur.-d. but knew no names.
' All the despatches beating on the SU"-
, were lit without delay to the wnn
House (1s Ptesldent Wl'soti de-llc."
be Info ruled at once of .ill developments
Friend" of the President s,., to-night
he would pro 1 with his usual mutton
and probably give no Indlcaiioii of the
steps he .voiild take until he hid digested
all the facts beating on tills ease and
the other eases pertaining to submarine
v at fa ic
li 1" lecalle.l thai Ptesldent Wilson, in
l cplylng to flei mai.) ' third I.usllanla
noi,'. served notice on the H. inian C.nv
, t t t,al ,.n.v future sUt, marine at-
tack.- on passenger ships Imperilling
An, ill. an Uws would b. ng.ir.b'.t as
'ilellliei.u. .l unrilitiilly "
Since that time then have le.ti i.ncs
vvluio Ameiicnil lives wen lost or Jeop
ardized by destruction of usscK hut
theie Iihs been no specific pioof In any
ca-e thai a ilcrinan suhmaihic was le
iponslble The case of tin Sussex
should It b moved th.it a il. miaii sub
mailue .iil.i. i;. . I her without warning,
can haiill) be teg.it. led In any other
light than a "deliberately tiiifrleii.il)"
r"'1 "" '' "r bniiauy. according
' officials I It Is further staled
iU" President's friends that be fully
icill'''" thN and that for this teasoti
.'ilotn' the situation I- perhapi .mii.
acute lo-nlgbi than it la" bei n lie
months
LINER MINNEAPOLIS
SUNK BY SUBMARINE
Ve-..p I'di'inerly in New ok
I.oiiiIoii Service AllitcUetl
in Meilitorriiiieiin.
t""tl ( iihle Vnfuir, m Tin. m .
Paris. Mai.it '.; - W.n.l was btunglit
lo .Marseilles to.ilay that the Atlantic
Transpoit I'ner Minneapolis, for mini
time In the llntit-h lioveriuncnt sctvlic,
iwas t-unl, last Wednesday bv a minim-
r,n , ,p M,.,ut.r, ,ln.in
I This new a was luoilght by Capt llll.hy
, of th Itiltlsh H.amshlp l.cuislcihire.
which arilvril at Mairellies to-day fmin
Italigoon
Capt Itihby -aid ihe l.t-lcstci slot .
; hut i led at full s .1 to the assistance of
the Minneapolis, bill tin latter Mini.
when hi" v.-ss. I arrived. The fate of the
crew of the .Minneapolis Is not known to
him
The sleamshlp Minneapolis, oumil hv
the A t Ll III it- iiiilispoit l.lne. was for-
i,,,.,),- ,,, t, n,v Voik to l.,,nil.,n see-
vice, hut was lakeii nvi'i lit the llritlsh
(.overnmeni several months ago
The MlmieapoIlK was built lu 1 1011 at
ll.lfiist She had a gross tonnage of
I.I.IH1 and was the largest of Ihe
.Minnie Sleanieis III the Atllltlt
i'raiisjioit Line Heel after Ihe Mlniie.
wneka. She htlpfd in the rescue work
when Ihe i'lanliiin Lino steamer .Vol
luruu was burned a I sea in 1911.
Prof. Baldwin and Daugh
ter Arc Reported to Bp
Among the Lost.
SURVIVORS TELL OK
KATE OF SCIENTIST
Embassy at Paris Making
Investigation to Ki
Responsibility.
i AN A DOS. SPANISH
COMPOSER, ABOARD?
Is Said to Have Been, on
Way Home Front New
Vork With His AVite.
..' iin1 t'r''e linixitcA lu The Sc.x
LoNi'ON', March I'i. According to tli
latest reports received by the American
Km ia-5', three Americans known tohava
bien pasJHigers on the Channel Heamer
SU"sex. which was damaged by a torpedo
or a mill." Friday afternoon while on her
way from Folkestone to Dieppe, are still
missing.
Thee are Prof. James Mark Baldwin
I of llaltlu oic nnd Pari", MIm Kllzabeth
I Haldwln, his daughter, and Mrs. Calliope
Anastasla Femiell. In addition to the
1 mlHlng thru Americana are known to
nt Dover and nine dead tit lloulognc.
The embassy received word to-day
th.it thirteen American survivors of the
Sussex had left Houloguo for Paris.
These wen :
HARM:.'. (lilltTnUDB U, New York.
lll'HIl Hint Peer), IICMlY, New Yunk.
ui:i:it. IDA.
llKMIH, S.Mt'i:i. FLA0, Merord. Musi
CUl.llllllTsDN. T. V Pittsburg. I'm.
i IX.nl. .r--v's list give" two Culbert.ons
itvej only ene mentioned fit eirllti:
list of isissports vi,d for the .ijs,rxi.
II. Mini:. Kli.VA S Ne York.
JIAItHi:, l.II.l.l A.V .s York.
IIi:.ltI.i:Y. JOHN' It., Albany. N.
llll.li IX, .MIlS. nmVAllU, .Sew York
HILTON. HDlitiTIIY W, New- ork.
IIL'IZ, At.lii: VV Colnrnrto.
!'.MH:I:nT. P.IMKI, Wellraley, Mo.s
lx survivors In C.nRlninl.
'I.. th.e are to In added six 111 I'.fii
land, IMw.ud II. Huxley of New York,
Fran, is ll. I nuke and IMwnr.l Matstull
it lilioll and Cbailes T. t.'rocker ,uJ
t.eotge H Ctockcr, .li , ami Wilder ll.
Penli. l, of Hudson. J... Pnvit,
WlbU i- : j', title, , who la in a ho
pltiil ui I'over. has tccoviitcl .oiislIous.
in-" Th.. iiijut) to ills head Is
M'voie than was feared. Tins iloctoi"
say that ai- , iu,.f injury Is a fracture of
the leg
tjeorge II Cm, l,ei, Jr. ..r I'.h hbiirj..
.Mass, ', ,M in same hospital sut
lulng tiom a ii.ictuti.l skull, Ie still un
ions, .oils. ..in it,,, physicians ato hope
ful of hi" recneiy .
It is sun,,:-,, tli.it the (le.nge ll.iitv
ill.tl.eit i Paiker, Jr.. mentlot.. .1 in tho
ally lists of tho" for whom pa"sports
wii.- vised lor passage on the Su-mx
and of whose name nothing has been
beir.l sine, vv.i. an nor f.,r iictuge. H.
I.'lo.i.e,. .li
Ih.il.lii. i '.i in ,i,,, s, th .S.atiish coin,
fi'i-er, and Itls wife w. ie fiase.igetw on
the Su.-s. It Is Im Ii. v. iI that both were
I. "t
.-i.o .i,iiii.i.,s r.tn.i, tij iibiii
'.New Yoll., lu ie he l iol Mii.itvls.d tr.a
t i ."In, lion ..I I, I. . ji. ra ""oivescas" ,,t
Hit M. ii'....iIi.iii,
Suivuor-i say thit tin y s,.i t-',-ti ,p und
Sen. a i ii an.,. I. h .Imultig to i small tail
A b...it was ...lii out, Utt tio t ... '. .'!
Hniii was tmitil.
Tin Si'N'h i'ari" . ot iisnn!int sa)s
iba. i i Am man ianb.issy l,.- jh nol'.v
pin.ti.alh cotiviii. ..I that P of James
.Mail, Hal. In ,n .mil .laughter, I'lu I'.ielh S
III. hill, , Mete huh on 1l,. MJs, v ,v
(l.o.i. l,. ii. i. to t. th u oi Miss llal'lwui
is at ll'.ui.ign.' awaiting nl. ntllic itlon
'lie enbassv lias ivldincc from two
w musses who iy tliey saw both I'm
i.smii at.l Miss llaldwln .load, Tiny
C'lnt Hale of Tuxedo, who has lived
m l.'iiglaud for the past Mitten years,
.nil T. W. Cull.crlson of Pittsburg, Pa.,
who, talking with the daughter pre
viously. In.) Iciiii.,1 her Identity
'Irs. Maldvvln'a I'nti.
I' .s I), llevt.l that Mrs ltaldwn. was
lu her slaterooin at the moment of Hi
explosion ami either was blown to piece"
or was washed away The l'iofes"Oi
and Ins daughter were standing toward
1 the bow on the pott sl'lo of tho Up .lei.
iqii'iihliig with a young American ibvtiv
who vias going to join thu Amtricau
Ambulance. The doctoi's logs vver
broil, ii an.l he Is now In a hospital at
1 lliilllo.'lle
Miss Halo was about twenty feet be
, hind th.'tii when the fplosjou c.inv.
hill "ling tho dick towa I Ihe port side
nt the ship, nearer to i'M llaldwln tlian
In r father A piece i. wiicl.ag.i t-trud
Ml" Haldwln on the lift s'.le of tho
head, ne.ir the temple, and uaverxd
her head, coming nut the olbci side
She fell with her should, i c the line
wheie the "hip had I il broken, Ini
he.nl over the empty spa. e
I Prof. Il.ililwiu was knocked Mi o
Ihe deck Ills bodv drlvci sum.,
' illnlanco toward tin si.irbo.tid lull
whl.ii had been washed awn), and llm
I spout of water trom the explosion .'auseit
a wave which washed the tl five-
1 boal.l lie was never seen again
VI la Hale I iilnjiireil.
- lie ib-tor alie.ult mentioned i Wii .r
I (j. ivulleld ") Ha" I k.l down in- I
' t,B ,'gs were broken, but he k, p ), .
i.,l , was able to give , en 1. -i
, ..,oni at liouiogne .Miss 11 il .. . -
moil)
knocked ili.wti. but was not Injan.l s t
got a t'rciii h soldier who vias a i.i
sepger tn pull Mlsjt Itildwln Ui.l,
back lie carried It down the uVik, and
M
3
A, ,e .a-. A
