Oregon Hlstorleat 80Cle(y
Ashland.-:; Tidings
"Ashland Grows While Lithla Flows"
' City of Sunshine and Flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Lithla Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa"
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1916
NUMBEK 88
Keep Tour Money
In Ashland
J
$ The registration in Jackson $
S county has been very light and $
$ points toward an eleventh-hour $
? rush which will cause much in- S
3 convergence both for voters and S
Outside of the price of commodl-
tlpR nr thtk mntlpr nf whether vour
local merchant can supply your needs ' registrars. Only twenty-three
as cheaply as the mail order house, more day8-
there is a real advantage to the pltl-,
zen in trading at home, that must of v v v y v v v v v
needs be overlooked before a citizen
can conscientiously send his money T JJfJjfiS RfiOSt
U 1 IV) Ot(flVyU
Is it of interest to the average citir I
zen whether his property value goes
up or goes down? Whether It goes'
up or down depends altogether on I
Ashlanders lay Have Porchligbt
At Current Cost of 5c a Month :
"Consumers' Week"
. Ashland shouid soon become one as well. Would save annoyance by
of the best lighted cities In America, night calls at the wrong house.
The city council has taken action 1 One provision will be made, and
which makes it possible for everyone that la that customers number their
5 $
This 1b clean-up week. Put s
In your spare time cleaning up
i the premises and have all rub- t
blsh in boxes or sacks in the
street on next Monday morning. $
-i The city teams will call on Mon- i
day and haul away junk free of '
t charge. S
The various clubs and organlza-
the prosperity of the town in which : t!ong of Ashland, under the leader
the property is located. Impoverish : Bn)p of tne civic Improvement Club,
the town and property values go are instituting an active campaign i US0(1 for a porch light will be offered, burn an average of ten to twelve
down, rents go down and taxes go toward. securing the co-operation of: The advantages resulting from hours a
to have a porch light on their resi- houses in such a manner that the
dence at a cost almost negligible, street number may be plainly seen
There are 966 resident customers of from the street,
electric current In Ashland, and the in houses using meters the porch
council hopes to have 90 per cent of light may be tapped on outside the
these install porch lights. A rate of meters so that the current used will
5 cents a month for current for a 25- : not register.
watt lamp, 8 cents for a 40-watt! Special attent'on Is called to the
lamp or 12 cents for a 60-watt lamp ,act that porch lights as a rule will
i $ S $ J J $ S -i' v t
Asks Injunction
Against Smudging
City Will Appeal
To State Commission
The cty of Ashland will appeal
to the State rtllitles Commission in
i an endeavor to have the fire Insur
ance companies grant more equltaulo
rates in some sections of the city.
Technicalities have a lot to do with1
I the establishment of fire insurance
; rates, and as the result of one of tha
j rules of the fire underwriters, the
j city would have to install new pipa
and fire hydrants costing several hun
dred dollars In order that the prop
erty owners In certain sections of tha
city might get a 40 to 60 per cent
Fire protec-
up. Impoverish the town and mar- every merchant and resident in Ash-' wholesale installation of porch lights burn but a small proportion of that
"To smudge or not to smudge, that
Is the ciucKfon." The valley orchard- I ,ower insurance rate.
lata are fast lining up on one side ! ,ion alo," a "rtnln section of tho
mm, wmie insiue ngnis ; or the otlcr n tne EmmiKe contro-
: Scenic Drive is furnished at present
; versy.
Most of those favoring annuls-! bv a two-'n'li "'" Two represent..
kets for home produce languish and an(j jn observing and making effect- are manifold. A few, as outlined in time. Hence the rate offered is most 1 R rc,'anl It onlv as the best means i ,iv'PS of t,le '"Ire Pnder Titers' Ilu-
money gets tight, kverybody is ive the observance of "Western Worn-j the report of the committee delegated extremely liberal. I possible under the circumstances and j r(,"n were in the city, last week and
hard up when the town is put on the i an-g Consumers Week," the dates by the council to Inquire Into the The cost or wiring for a porch light i are ald'ng In the search for a sub- 'nfornip.l the city that the rules for-
uu'n. ! for which include April 3 to 9 Inclu- j feasibility of the proposition, are as amounts to but very little and tlie stitute. Some few orchardlsts are ! tne Issuance of the lower rata
Take a community that raises 8jve The governors of Idaho, Utah, I follows: The entire city would be upkeep cost will be so low as to be trying other methods thte year. The j wno" tlle water was carried in a two-
more than it consumes and ships its Washington and Oregon have- issued better lighted and would rank with no drain on the slimmest purse. Tbe aiitf-i-innclo fruitmen are tor the j ini'h nlnil1 fo1" sl11'1' a d'stance. Tha
surplus away to a good market and proclamations eetting aside this week j the best lighted cities in the country, electric light department will make" ln0Kt p!11t willing to let the frost citv officials offered to test the pres-
sells at a good price, bringing the and the club women of Oreson are : It would fessen the liability of house- a campaign among the consumers, i !,, ,.in,., i ti.n ivf ir-itiu.r Hum sure and are positive that tho nres-
casn back into tne nome conimunit, ( giving lt their fullest backing,
and the local community at once be- one big cetltral object of the week Is assist the police department In locat-
The ! breaking and petty thievery. Would , advocating the installation of lights, undergo tho damage which they bo-
A well-lighted City always makes a f j;,.Vp Hip nirli.in frnm Hie Hinnkn fines
comes prosperous. Hie community to get Ashland consumers to buy j Ing places after night and physicians good Impression. The porch light the fruit.
that buys our supplies instead or pro- westerm made goods, the nearer home i In locating homes at night. Would plan Is cheap and feasible and the
be a great convenience to the public, council hope that every resident of
lighting up the premises and streets Ashland will Install one.
ducing their own becomes poorer just thev are made the better.
in proportion to the amount of money xlle Commercial Club and the Bus
it sends out. Our community be- 1less Mol).g Association have assured
comes more prosperous just in pro- the cib ladieg of their co-operation,
portion to the money that conies in The merchants will be asked to make
and stays in. ' window displays of western-made
It is utterly Impossible for citizens gorxgj tho ministers will be asked to
to be prosperous in a community that peak a g00d word for the project,
is Impoverished. Cash must be float- and the reSdents of the city will be
ihg in our proximity before we can urged to ..buy at home" western-
get It. If, when we get the dollar we made goods
at once send lt out of the commun- 81lch a8 home-products dinner and
ity,' where we cannot get it again,' otner events wilI be added
not only tho community but ourselves j
will be bard up.
That is a law you can't get away
from. The only way to avoid it is to
keep the money at home. With this
view, believing that ignorance of the
damaging effects that follow mail or-
Brings Back
Mexican Sword
James Bowers returned the last of
Several unique features 1116 'eeK Irom uemnnng, i. m.,
' ...v. i. a v. i ni h n
w nvi e UB lias urt;u vibiiuig ai iud
brother in-law's ranch. Demming is
but twenty-five miles from Columbus,
and on the morning after the Colum
bus Mexican raid some of the boys
from the ranch visited the scene of
Baby Cabs Furnish
, Only Loophole
der buying in a community only can
clal organizations of the city have
been askd to co-operate in keeping
this evening clear of other events,
the fight. Jim says the Mexicans and the ball promises to be the big-
Hy way of emphasizing tho pur
pose of those who oppose the use of
crude petroleum In smudging the or
chards of this valley, suit fur an in
junction against those who propose
to continue to use it has been filed In
tho circuit court of this district by
Dillon lt. Hill, one of the big orchard
lsts of th's va'ley, through his attor-
' ney, V. K. Phipps. He names as do
The Ashland band is working hard femlant3 Samm,, !osril,erg, owner of
and faithfully upon the preparation : tbe Doar Cm?k orcbar(la; E(Iwln (i.
of suitable music for the band bene-; Honore of tho ralnier ,nCHtnient
fit ball which will be given at the j company, owners of the Klamath or
armory on April 7. The various so- phar.,., wminm nmitn n.ni a R.
Band Has New j
Music for Ball!
Marshall.
The complaint
specifically sets
sure Is more than sufficient, as tha
pipe conies down from high on tha
hil's, but tho Insurance men stated
that "rules were rules," and whila
they did not doubt that tho pressure
was high enough, demanded the larg
er pipe.
Several hundred feet of fonr-lncli
main would have to be put In and
several hydrants. This would cover
but ono section of the city. Thorn
are several other sections where tha
pressure Is far above the required
poundage, but some technical re
quirement forbids the lower rate.
The city council was at first In
clined tc make the changes naked,
and In fact passed a motion ordoring;
the work done at last Tuesday's ses
sion, but when tho water committed
I "An ordinance to nrohlbit coast-
account for tho unwise policy, the ing, roller skating, ana sliding, on tne
Tidings, in conjunction with a num- sidewalks throughout the city of Ash-1
, l . , . - f lonl1' An tVio n'flf 'qq nn Tha
oer or Asmana mercnanis, is puuing .
on a trade-at-home educational cam- 'council listened in silence to the read
palgn, carrying illustrations and rela- '"g of the ordinance, which Is almost
tive facts of mail order buying, in the lf not Qulte airtight and forces the
hope of convincing our people that children with their coaster wagons,
prosperity is best fostered by trading p'eds atd roller skates into the street,
at home, even though the price of the The ordinance prohibits anything but
local merchant be slightly higher. ! ,)aby carriages on the sidewalks, so
! if yon want to const, kids, coast in a
, baby carriage. Be careful to take out
the baby first, though. Be of good
cheer, however. The ordinance will
The campaign begins in this issue.
A new illustration and argument will
appear every Monday. It will be in
teresting and educational and worth
following.
were piled fifteen deep In one place
where they tried to pet through a
gap In the fence when pursued by the
American soldiery. He brought back
a saber which he picked up on the
battlefield. It Is on display in the
window bf Grieve's cigar store.
Large Crowd Hears
Talk on Pottery
gest dance event of the year. It will
be extensively advertised throughout
the valley and big delegations from
vailey points are expected.
A number of the latest selections
have been received by the band boys
and will be played for the first time
in Ashland at the bail.
forth the fact that the plaintiff be- camo t0 r,,pr the pipe It was found
! lieves his orchard to have received ; that the r0fit of nil' hns take" a 8,l(1-
i great damage from smudging done by i(len Jl""I of over 100 per cent' and
his neighbors. The progress of the
case will be watched with Interest by
the valley orchardists.
A large crowd heard a very inter
esting talk at the library last Thurs
day evening by Allan H. Eaton of the
Automatic Cup
Venders Installed
Council Hears
Several Ordinances
Ashland Has
One of the automatic cup vending
machines was installed in Lithia park
not be passed for two weeks yet, and University of Oregon, his subject be- at the lithia fountain Saturday even
maybe not at all, if the silver-tongued ' ins "Pottery, the Great American ing. The cup vends a good quality
oratory of Poke Nininger, champion Art-" The gathering were much in-: tumbler shaped paraffined paper cup
of the "kids," prevails. jterested in the fine collection of pot- which can be used several times. Bo-
Councilman Nininger stood up for i tel' which rMr. Eaton had with him, j tween the hours of 5:30 Saturday af-
The city council met In special ses
sion Thursday night to attend to nn
overflow of business from tbe regular
session of Inst Tuesday. "Porch
lights for everybody" was discussed
and action taken as elsewhere report
ed. Tho fire Insurance matter, as
elsewhere reported, was' taken care
of. An ordinance governing the gar-
the changes would cost the taxpayers
In tho affected district far more thaa
the difference In insurance cost.
At Thursday's council meet the
matter was. discussed at some length,
and several instances throughout tha
city given where an unfair discrim
ination in Insurance rates is alleged
because of a technical rnllng. For
Instance, at Councilman Cornelius's
place on lower Oak street tho pres
sure Is 14,1 pounds, and yet ho pays
the highest Insurance rate. The flra
in Chester Stevenson's residence at
the top of Wimer street was men
tioned. This fire, It will bo remem
bered, started in a basement full of
papers, wood shaving and other com
bustibles. The fire department ar
rived In a couiile of minutes and tha
Fin A ftrfiCl" the children nobly, stated he be-1 an(l a half hour of questions and in-
k Ull Vlllllaiia ieved t8elfish to prohibit skating on terested discussion folowed the talk.
. Mr. Eaton has become a great boost
er for Ashland, and especially is in
love with Ashland park and spoke a.t
ternoon and 3 Sunday afternoon ap
proximately f3 was taken in by the
machine.
Two venders will be installed at
bage problem was passed. A resolu
tion was passed sanctioning the hlr-jfire was extinguished before It had
'ng of II. II. Pinion to caro for Momir burned through the floor. This was
tain View cemetery during the sum- herd to be nn exceptional argument
mer months at a salary ot $20 a. In favor of lower rates as it effect ii-
month. Tho care of the lawns, trees ; ally demonstrated the f it'f-f i 11 ( 111 9
the lithia fountain and one at each'nmi ahmWv wimii.,1 in Mr rin. pti,.i n, ..i,i , .........
some length of the Impression which f . ofh. nnntn,a in .hfi Iln,kl, . , , V, , , ,,, i ! 7 , ' s.vsiom.
... . .. ot lllL otner lountains in tne paiK;on'g duties, In which ho will ha su- Final v t ho cnnniii ra.i.,,i.i t.n(.
and at the station. The money taken ,K,rvsed by Eugene Walrad. action of the former meeting and do
in by the venders will go toward the , j, , Li,i,i .i, i, ... ..
States' greatest claim to n foremost' . ...... , i " '""' Kovitiiuik m-w.t ru..-,- l i" mur wnn Uia
. . . . 7. .upheep ui uie pa. K anu win ue one .,.. ,,., .,, nintnH.Ms otr. ., State I'til'tv Commls.Hnn
the park had made upon him.
Pottery-making is the United
i ir.e siaewaia in ine resiaence ais-
Ashland has a musical organlza- trict, and criminal to force the chll
tion, the Vining orchestra, of which dren to skate In the streets, for "any
any city might well be proud. Com- j boy who has spent two dollars for a
posed of eight pieces under the direi-; pair of skates Is going to skate some
tion of Carl Loveland, this orchestra where." He went on to tell how he
V ., ,. I. 1, I.. Hf,rnl'nl Til 1 ti 1 1 n V. ,111 1. . 1 . . I i 1. !
a t ntn.,i v. .u- .umj..-- nw.i i .,ji,(m, r0n . . . . nocuous, iiis)ecuon, materials, etc., i ui.i.v i miinusnon in an en-'
nuw aim ie piuj nig o 51 aire ui uiuoii. curlier, wnere ino vunureu cuio "'"f 01 tie man V ncoilie-nrocluclnc lll'OUO- , ..... , .1.,., ,.., i. ,1
seldom attempted by any but the best speeding down Gresham street and who proclaims this country to lead I s , 0I s led h rough he 1 WB8 T" " T T" , I " " , ', 'G " t,,ttt,? h,,r '
professional orchestras. Sunday even- turn onto Main. He said he went out the world in pottery-making. He ! 0H hich onsl J"" T ! or , 7 , nm,Prwr,tnr
ing concerts at the V.ning Theatre and talked kindly to them, showing gave something of the history of pot-! b nZTr? ," T" rT' ! At ! I v T "y "
are becoming so popular that Man- them the danger of running Into I tery-making and outlined and showed I ZnnmJ V lT l i ord"r t0 SO,VO the proM ' I .r'00'0 . wa9 nM ta
' w . v vi n, I..,- P ,lnl.,,.irA rinn n liit III lilt Ilia l)lnll..i 11, 11.-
' i tf it.. i. ji i i Ki u urn i i i iur ntfiii a utti ii I ntiii'ji vvilii l i N;irn
' h Is
ager Bergner is to have a week-, someone at the corner, and telling
day concert on Thursady even- them to skate Into the store If they
Ing in addition to the Sunday music, j wished, but be careful of the corner,
Tie orchestra members gather at and since has had practically no trou
least twice a week for rehearsal and ble. He also told of anotber Instance
are making fine progress. All of the , he knew of In which a business man
members play for love of playing and j had angrily threatened a bunch of
are enthusiastic over the work. A, children skating, and as a result was
great deal of the latest music has nearly' pestered to death,
been purchased and is being re-j 'Mr. Banta stated that many people
hearsed. This Is the first time that had spoken to him about the matter
Ashland has had an orchestra which and asked him to have skating pro
ranks with the best, and the organlza- hlbited, as the noise bothered them
tion Is called upon frequently. At and the children often took unwar
the Elks' anniversary ball the music ranted privileges,
furnished by this orchestra was unan-1 Mr. Nininger said he asked one
Imously proclaimed to have been the , man who was loud In hjs rantlngs
best dance music which has ever lent against the children's skating if "he
to the enjoyableness of an Elks' had any of his own," and received the
dance, and the Elks have never reply, "Wouldn't have one around
spared expense in securing the best the place."
procurable. j The mayor told of the first time
The Instrumentation of the orches- during his administration when the
tra at present consists of piano, vlo- city officials had sought tp regulate
Hn, clarinet, cornet, cello, bass viol, ; the skating and of the trouble which
flute and drums, Mr. Loveland hopes had resulted. Overnight hundreds of
to have another violin, a trombone : champions of children's rights sprang
and horn added In the near future. up and forced withdrawals of restrict
No other motion picture house in a - tlons.
city the size of Ashland on the coast He told of one small boy coming to
can boast such music as Is furnished . him asking permission to skate, and
on concert nights at that popular when asked lf hie thought It all right
examples of the several great di
visions or eras of pottery-making in
this country. Three kinds, the Van
Biggie pottery made in Colorado, the
Newcombe pottery from New Orleans,
and the greatest of them all, the :
Rockwood pottery, were dwelt with
at a considerable length.
The kaolin deposit near Ashland
Mr. Eaton said was of the same ma
terial as that used in the foundation
of the chinaware first made In China,
and with some of the Oregon clay
should be valuable for making pottery.
velopmnnt of the park.
Last year the gas meters at the , wlilcli has been a thorn In tho side of ' commission, which Is the court of an-
auto camp paid for the care of the the snnitnry committee. Some of tho i peals in cases of this kind.
camp grounds and other expenses, oomiellmcn were of the opinion that I One of the coiiiu llmen renin rkert
and at the end of the season $27.35
was left from the gas Income and
i was carried over into the fund for
this year. .
playhouse.
Mr. Root reported Tuesday night
that the special committee In charge
of securing the Grandvlew Drive right
of .way had started operations and no formal action was taken, the ten
hoped to be able to make fast head-: dency of the council seemed to be to
.ay, ' ward restricting the skaters to the
to fly around with wheels on his feet
replied, "My dad says lt is no worse
having wheels on your feet than
wheels In your head."
As a result of the discussion, while
Medford Band
Is Organized
Medford Is to have a band. A con
tract was signed by a band committee
with Prof. R. G. Rowlands of Vic
toria, B. C, to direct the band for the
coming year, after $1,200 had been
raised, half from the city and half
from business men, to pay Mr. Row
lands' salary. The Medford organ
ization will be composed of nineteen
ple'es and will play weekly concerts
from May to October. No doubt the
Medford band will be heard In Ash
land park several times this summer.
Snov and Frost
Do No Harm
allowing this one barn to connect
with tho sewer would set a bad prece
dent. An ord'nnnco to prohibit rol'er
skating and coasting on the sidewalk
led to much discussion, which is re
corded in another column.
A lengthy nnd comprehensive ordi
nance regarding regulating of con
duct In c'ty parks, which was framed
that if they could get some of tha
fire underwriters In front of the firo
hose at some of the "insufficiently
protected" places, they would soon
realize tho effectuality of Ashland'a
fire-protection system.
The orchards passed through the hy members of the park board and
residence districts and keeping them
off the business streets. Final ac
tion will be taken at the next meet
ing of the council.
wintery weather of last Thursday and
Friday and emerged unscathed. Al
though the thermometer got down as
low as 22 above zero In some parts
of the valley and considerable frost
was reported, no great amount of
damage has been reported. Frequent
flurries of snow and showers con
tinued for two days and nights and
a heavy fall of snow Is reported from
the mountains. The hills around
Ashland were covered with snow.
The moistened condition of the foli
age and the gradual changes from
warm to cold and cold to warm are
given as the reason for lack of dam
age to the fruit. A few orchards
were smudged Thursday night.
Branches of blossoms collected by the
county fruit officials were examined
at the office and found to have been
unharmed.
Councilman Banta and modelled after
the Portland park ordinnnce, was
read. The ordinance contained many
clauses and restrictions which were
Fruitgrowers
' Incorporate
Ashland Tidings wants ads bring
results. tf
Formation of tho Fruitgrowers'
Agency, Incorporated, Is being effect
ed by representatives of practically
objected to by some of the council- every selling agency, fruitgrowers' or
men, and 'it was decided to remodel j ganlzatlon and business institution
it a clause at a time when opportun- connected with fruit growing and
Ity presented itself. The ordinance i marketing at Spokane. C. E. Basset t
In Its orlglnnl form was airtight. 1 and his fellow workers of the govern
Councllman I.amb stated, "If that nynt Bureau of Markets are suporln
passes I wouldn't run the risk of go-1 tending the formation of the agency.
Ing near Ashland pnrk for fear of be-1 Tho fruitgrowers of tho northwest
Ing arrested." One of the clauses i seem to ho unitedly backing the new
agency.
Whether or not the local fruit asso
c'atlon will become a member will bo
objected
park.
to forbid sleeping In the
The price of Iron pipe has gone up decided at a meeting of Ashland fruit
about. 100 per cent. The city Is lucky I growers hold next Saturday afternoon
In having purchased the Granite
street main before the raise. The
water committee of last year Is to be
commended for their foresight In pur
chasing what pipe they did last year.
Phone news Items to the Tidings
at the Commercial Club rooms. Every
fruitgrower of the district should at
tend this meeting.
Signs not "signs of the times,"
but street signs took np consider
able time at the Tuesday meet.
