tit
Bttblic
1 ! P ! J V V "V
Till: LEDflKR In an advertising
tnedlnrn (lint brings retail. Onr
rnlen nro consistent with elrcn
Inllon. Hooks open to Inspection,
Jt TIIK VF.ATI!i:i!, !
Ji Shower nnil colder Mnndnj-, I
! Tuesday cloudy,
.J
t
fxKKir Kurunr.tCAir-ttn.
fi.HL V WJIUO LKDUKR-Mt
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, MONDAY, MARCH 27, 101G.
ONE COPYONE CENT.
feaa
rib
TOIII.V,
Mr, and Mrs. Edwnrd Tobln of Ml
norvn, nro rejoicing over the arrival
ot n lino son Sunday night nt JO
o'clock. Mr. Tobln Ih n brother of Mrs,
Thomas I.nlli-y of llrldgu street.
Mrs. Wminltt Knight left Sunday for
Columbus, O., cnlled thrro by tbo se
rious Illness of her sister, Mrs. Louis
llcnekcr.
Mrs. Uovco I). Core, acconipnnlcd by
Mr. and Mrs. Will Oatemnn, Mr. Rny
mond Partco and his mother, Mrs. Jos
slo Parteo of Lexington, Ky., motored
down Sunday In their Chalmers for n
few days visit with Mr. nnd Mrs. Cor
don Cilmoro.
Mr. J. H. Bwlstcr lost a valuable
work bouso Inst Saturday while plow
ing nt Sprlngdale, The animal drop
ped dend In the harness.
HENDRICKSON
Invites Your Inspection of a Complete
Line of
Accredited Spring Styles
In
Wall Paper 0 Rugs
Harbeson Garage
"Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and
plies
Gars For
Sup-Hire
Goodyear
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-Cuti by the No-Ulm-Cot feature,
aiowouu by tha "On-Air" cure.
Look Tre.dt by many rubber rlveti.
InucMritr by 126bralded piano wires.
Puncture, and Skiddinr by the double
thlck All-Weather, ereitl.
h i: sqr,Ri: orn dkeds to our
words
in tho selling of lumber. You'll find
that when wo say -It Is thoroughly
dried and seasoned that It Is so. You
will learn that when wo promise a de
liver yat a certain tlmo the lumber
will be on the Job at that time or bo-
fore.
The Mason Lumber Company
Tomer Limestone nnd Second Streets.
I'hone r19.
A. A. McLaughlin. L. II. IJchan
I
FARMERS!
Save Manure From
Your Live Stock
It Is aw precious as the golden gruln In your bin. Farmers lu
the old countries recogulzo this, and they not only savo every pound
and apply It In such a nay that losses are reduced to tho minimum,
but I hey gather leaf moulds, sediments and mucks from swamps
which they mix with manure lu order to ready them more valuable.
Manure deteriorates very rapidly unless properly cared for. Hou't
leaie It carelessly lu tho yard, thereby letting dollars get auay from
you, but come In TODAY and get a John Deere "hlp-hlgh" Spreader,
the kind with the beater on the axle, and spread fertility and prosper-
J It j- broadcast.
S YOURS, FOR A BIG HARVEST
i MIKE BROWN
I "THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
JMMMMIHM'HMMMI
SUNDATS RAIN
Amounted To Almost n Wnler Spout
In This City, Doing Some
Damage.
Tho weather mnn was on tho Job
all right for his predictions as to tho
weather In this vicinity ns far as the
rain was concerned.
Sunday afternoon nbout 430 a heavy
rain and hall storm struck this com
munity, coming from tho southwest,
nnil for n short tlmo tho rain came
down In torrent?, with a mlxturo of
hall nnd wind, turning tho streets Into
mlnlaturo creeks all over the city.
On Hrldgo street the water rushed
down to tho holo under tho C. & 0
wnshlng rock and sand onto tho street
car tracks, nnd a car attempted to go
through It, but Jumped tho track. An
other car went to Its asalstanco nnd
It, too, got oft tho track, compelling tho
company to transfer nround them until
they were replaced on the track.
Tho downspouts on tho now addition
to tho Central Oarage on Market
street, became choked and tho water
backing upon tho almost flat roof,
caved In, damaging two automobiles
slightly.
On West Second street a choked
sower caused water to back up in the
residence of Mr. Pearl Dlythe, tho bar
bcr, doing some dnmage.
A largo barn on tho farm of John
Drnnnon In the Lowlsburg neighbor
hood, was struck by lightning and
burned, together with its contents,
Tho loss Is heavy.
Rain continued to fall at Intervals
almost tho entire night, tho govern
mcnt gauge reporting n totnl rainfall
ot 1.79 Inches.
A largo amount of damage was done
throughout the county by washing of
farm lands.
MILS. V.XL M'CAHTHY IWAll.
Mrs. Cnl McCarthy, nged about 00 J
years, died at her homo nt Minerva
Saturday night of Infirmities Incident
to ngo. Hho was one of tho pioneers
of tho section In which she lived, hav
ing como hero from Ireland when
qulto young and has been n resident
of Mlncrvn over since. Her husband
died nbout fifteen years ago. Tho fu
neral was held Monday morning at tho
Catholic church at Mlncrvn, services
by Hcv. Father Coleman.
MRS. PETER KING
Former MnjsWIIc Lady 1'ommlls Sui
cide lu Cincinnati Hy Jumping
From a Third Story
Window.
SUPERVISOR MITCHELL'S
REPORT.
FIXAL
LOWEST PRICES OF THF YEAR
4 cans good Corn ouly . 25 cents 1 cans best Ljo llomluy only. 23 cents
4 caai best Pumpkin only. . 25 cents 3 caus good Tomatoes only. ..85 cents
These goods are worth more at wholesale cost. We dp not want to carry
aryr over,
i(C
HfMM 43,
The Mnysvllle market closed on Fri
day, March 24, In a most satisfactory
manner to both buyer and seller, the
prices on all grades being fully as
high as at any time during the season.
The market sold 17,412,200 pounds
for $1,948,543.1!), at an averago of
111.20. Last year's average was $8.21,
this season showing an advance of $3
per hundred.
Tho market for the entire year has
been better supported and held to a
more uniform price day after day than
any year slnco It was opened, there be'
Ing no radical raises or falls.
Tho great number of fnctory buyers
and brokers now located here makes It
so that if ono drops out there Is an
other to take his placo. This fact
makes Maysvillo tho most reliable
dally market of northern Kentucky or
southern Ohio.
The loss of one-third In pounds was
largely made up to the grower In the
advance In price, but fell very hard on
tho warehousemen.
The extreme high price of fertilizer
13 bound to cut the Carolina crop,
Dairying is having its effect In east
ern Kentucky nnd southern Ohio and
tho high prico for hemp will cut the
central Kentucky crop, so It lookB
good for tho tobacco grower of Mnson
and adjoining counties.
My advlco to all Is to grow all that
yon can PROPERLY CARE FOR BUT
NOT ONE POUND MORE, for each
season now clearly demonstrates that
it Is tho careful handler that gets tho
money. As an Illustration, ono grower
on Friday, March 24, sold his crop at
an averago of $24.43.
Hero Is hoping for a 30,000,000 snlo
In Mnysvllle next year and a good
crop. W. MITCHELL, Supervisor.
HUMANE SOCIETY MEETING.
Friday evening thero was a called
meeting ot tho Mason County Humano
Society. Tho problems of tho work
wcro discussed and It was decided
to try to get a trained and offlclcnt
worker to como hero and tako entire
charge of tho humano business. Somo
ono who can glvo his entlro attention
to looking up tho cases of neglect and
cruolty In tho county nnd city. Such
a worker will liavo to bo paid a sal
ary whllo hero. Tho Humano Society
has eight-six names on Its roll and
slnco so many are interested in this
good cause there need bo no trouble
about raising tho salary ot a Humane
Officer. Tho people of the county
should bo as much interested as thoso
In tho city, nnd branch societies should
bo organized In ovory community,
MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For nil grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices nro right. Order
today, Poyntz Dros., Covington, Ky.
Miss Allco Lloyd, president ot tho
Mason County Woman's Suffrago
League, Is attending a stato meeting
of suffrago clubs of Kentucky at Lou
isville.
Mr. and Mrs, Harry Tolle ot Cin
cinnati, spent Saturday and Sunday
with hJLs parents, Mr. and Mrs. William
A, Tollo of Eas't Second rtreo't.
.Mrs. Peter King, aged 54, widow of
n former widely known contractor,
Peter King, of Frankfort, whllo suf
fering from a nervous breakdown,
Jumped from a third-story window nt
the homo of her sistcr-ln-lnw, Mrs.
Kate Fitzgernld, In Cincinnati, Satur
day morning and died from u fractured
skull.
Mrs. King's husband, with John
King, father of J. J. King, nt ono tlmo
wero members of tho contracting tlrm
of Mason, Hogc &. King, nnd tho King
brothers nmnssed n considerable for
tune in the contracting business. At
tho time of her death Mrs. King wns
said to be very wealthy.
After tho death of her husband Mrs.
King resided In Frankfort and for sev
eral years had mado her home with
her nephew at tho Frankfort hotel.
She left Frankfort last October nnd
went to Martinsville, lnd., where she
remained three weeks, going then to
tho home of her slster-ln-lnw, Mrsl
Kate Fitzgerald, on nroadway In Cin
cinnati. t'pon going to Cincinnati. Mrs. Kim;
placed herself under tho caro of a
nerve specialist, and upon his Instruc
tions she was placed under tho care ot
a trained nurse. Early Saturday morn
ing, according to Information from '
Cincinnati, she escaped from her nurse
nnd ran to an opon window nnd leaped ,
to the ground.
She wus.n dauglTter of Mr. John
Fitzgerald of this city, and was a con-'
sin of Col. C. T. Moore, County Road'
Supervisor, who left Sunday to attend
tlio funernl which will be held In Lou
isville. I
QUITE A COINCIDENCE.
If any ono has It In their bend that
Maysvillo Is not a healthy place In
which to live, let them glanco nt this
remnrkablo happening, which without
nrrangomcut, wns noticed In the bar
bershop of Mr. Oeorgo Schwart Satur
day morning. Seven Mnysvlllo resi
dents wcro In thero nt once, tho
youngest 75 years old nnd the oldest
90 years. Six of them wcro Col. Malt
by, Col. Rospess, Dr. Frozco, Mr. J.
N. Kirk, Mr. John lloulden nnd Mr.
Charles Cannon.
Mrs. Elizabeth McCord of Flomlngs-
burg, Ky., widow of William A. Mc
Cord, Company A, Sixteenth Regiment
Kentucky Volunteer Infantry, has,
through her attorney, Nnnnlo McKol
lup Peebles of this city, been granted
widow's original pension nt tho rate
ot $12 per month; nlso tho accrued
pension due her husband.
Mr. James Riley of this city, and
Mr. John Grant of tho county, arc
members of tho grand Jury for tho
April term ot tho Federal Court,
which convenes Monday, April 3, at
Covington.
Tho West Union tobacco warehouse
earned 15 per cent on Its capital stock
this season.
1 '";;, Seed Potatoes
We have Genuine Irish Cobblers, Long Red Rose,
Red River Ohios and Red Bliss Triumph. All first
class stock and the price is right. Sccus before buying.
jjmgEr urns., PhrjnE zn.
M
Old lints cleaned, dyed and re- Captain nnd Mrs, (' M. Phlster re
blocked, Panama hats a specialty turned Friday from a two weeks stay
MISS S, SHEI'ARl), t Palm IJench, Fin
j we have"!
a frcsh'stock of all rubber necessaries. No old stock. 5
" See our line of Hot Water Bottles, Fountain 3
Syringes, etc. 5
5 M. F.WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY 5
"AT THE CORNER
IIIHIII
All tho latest patterns In wallpaper' All the drugstores closed at Wln
at CRANE Sc. SHAFER'S. Chester Sunday.
THE HDME DF QUALITY CLDTHE5
DRESS UP
You remember Shakespeare wrote, "The apparel oft proclaims tho man."
You know from experience this Is true. You can't judgo a man when you first meet him by his BRAINS
OR CHARACTER, because you can't size these up nt n glance; but you do unconsciously Judge him by tho
clothes he is wearing.
March 27th to April 8th lias been decreed "DRESS UP" tlmo all over tho country. This tlmo has been
dedicated to new Spring Clothes In recognition of tho new season.
Moro men each year grasp ho significance ot better dressing. Somo through personal experience; somo
through experience ot others. "Hechinger" clothes are nlways "DRESS UP" Clothes because they aro fash
ioned by masters In design. Your tasto In spring clothes may be conservative, or may favor the moro no
ticeable, moro radical models. We will show you both. You aro sure of bcliih' dressed In perfect stylo and
taste when you make your selection from our new spring models. Wo offer yon a 'wide chplcc. Ab to
price you may suit your own inclinations In this matter. Suits $10 to $30. '
D. HHIOtillSrCS-ESI?. cSc GO.
Reliability in Hunt's BLACK SILKS
Not all Hliu-k Silks arc reliable in weave or dye. ns many women Inivo round out to their loss after wearing inferior
weaves a short time. It is often nctunl economy tr, pay a trillc more a yard and get lMnck Silks that wear well, than to
savo the dilVercnee and have only disappointment instead of service. Y'(. call your special attention to the following weaves:
Cashmiro Gharraeuse, Pussy Willow Taffeta, Crepe do Ohino, Gros des Londres. Crepe Meteor, Georgette Crepe, Japs,
Messaline, Taffeta, Charmeuse, Poplins, ranging in price from 50c to $2.25.
The Spring Suits
liavo been coming for days past. Hurrying out as quickly ns they arrive too, at which no woman will wonder when she
sees our unusually large stock and tries on these very latest models. PRICES $15 TO $35.00.
"Incredibly Good For
The woman who said this knew every detail thnt makes a really GOOD crepe do chiuo blouse,
She knew tho difference between good, stout silk nnd tho sleazy kind.
She knew tho difference between the fine needlework and slipshod stitching.
$2.50"
Our price this week for biittorfat,
37 cents, Mnysvllle.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
Miss Allco Kerr Hood of Flemings
burg, wns n visitor lu this city Saturday.
Our new Spring' wallpapers are
ready for your Inspection. Como In.
CRANE & SlIAPER.
Miss Graco Tlpplo orWolIston, O., is
the guest of her cousin, Mrs. J. H.
Hryant of East Second street.
1
VONDAY' TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SAT-
Maysville shoppers who shop out of town.
! There is absolutely no reason why we can not satisfy the most fastidious tastes
these days. We are carrying a wonderful stock of goods. May be you have not vis
( ited our Ready-to-Wear Department lately. If not make it a point to be with us next
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
These will be OPENING DAYS and we shall have a display of dresses from
"MILLARDS" of New York, Philadelphia and Baltimore. A display of pattern hats
from the house pf "Fisk."
9 HHPHF lH9Hl "HBESB
v -KEL, AWmm AmmAm mAABA
IHHHmHKHHHHH IHBHMI MIHH AAAW mmmAmmAAAAm
. V
4-
