THE BARM DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 10.
BARRE, VERMONT, MONDAY MARCH '27, 1910.
PRICE, ONK CKNT.
f
4i
TORPEDO BOAT
MISSING; TWO
TRAWLERSSUNK
The Germans Say, However,
That the British Seaplane
. Attack on Aviation Sheds
m JNortnern scnieswig'
Holstein "Failed Com.
pletely"
FRENCH TRANSPORT SUNK.
Berlin Heart That 73 of OccupanU Were
Rescued.
Ucrlin, by wireless, March 27. K''Irt
have la-en received from Athens that a
French transport with troops on board
from Naloniki struck a mine anil wuik,
nay the CKerseas agency. (Seventy
three were rescued.
GERMANS WERE SURPRISED.
THREE BRITISH
SEAPLANES LOST
German Fleet Was Sent Out
to Meet the Raiders, but
Only a Few Torpedo Boats
Got in Contact with the
British, Says the German
Report
Russian-: Have Profited by Quick Action
On Dvinsk Front.
Petrogrsd, via London, March 27. The
atultlin development of a Human olfen-
sive on the Dvinsk front, which hii taken
the Germans by surprise, linn during the
paxt week returned in a considerable ad
vance by the Rusians over two of the
moot important sector at Jacobatadt,
which protected the northern flank, and
in the Xarocz lake region, which defend
the southern positions.
FRENZIED CAMPAIGN
BY SUBMARINES
IS CONTINUED
, ( London, March 27. A German torpedo
loat is missing since the sea fighting
fdiich followed British air raids Satur
day morning on German aviation sheds
on northern Sehleswig-Holstein, accord
ing to the official German statement re
ceived here by wireless, which says:
The English naval aeroplane at
tack on the North Friscan coast
failed completely. Two armed fish
ing steamers on outpost service fell
victims to English vessels. Our na-
val aeroplanes attacked the English
naval fighting lorces and succeeded
in scoring a number of hits and in
seriously damaging one torpedo boat
destroyer. Of the naval fighting
forces which wo sent immediately
only a few torpedo boats came in
touch with the returning enemy dur
ing the night of March 25. One of
these torpedo boats has not yet re
turned, t
The British official statement admit
that three British seaplanes, which took
part in the raid, are missing. The state
went given out last night is as follows:
An attack by British seaplanes
was delivered yesterday morning
upon German airship sheds in Schleswig-ilolstein,
eastward of the Island
of Sylt. The seaplanes were con
, voyed to their rendezvous close to
the German coast by an escorting
force of light cruisers and destroyers
under Commodore Tyrwhitt.
Three of the seaplanes which took
part in the attack are missing. The
, destroyer Medusa was in collision
with the destroyer Laverock and it
is feared that in the stormy weather
winch prevailed last night the Me
dusa may have been lost, but no
misgivings are felt as to the safety
of the crew.' Two German armed
patrol vessels were sunk by our de
stroyers. No detailed report has yet been re
ceived, but from Danish press mes
sages it would appear that this op
eration, w;hich waa carried out with
in the enemy' waters, achieved its
object. '
Six Ships, All of Them Bearing Either
British or French Have Been Sunk
and Many Lives Were Lost
London, March 27. The French steam
ship Cerne and the British fish carrier
Khartoum have been sunk. The crews
of the Hebe and Cerne were landed. Two
members of the crew of the Khartoum
were served but it ia feared that the re
maining nine men were drowned.
Lloyds reports that the British steam
ship St. Cecilia is Binking. That ship
was announced yesterday to have struck
a mine. She had a general cargo from j
Portland, Me. In addition, the British j
ships Minneapolis and the Fenay Bridge i
have been sunk, presumably by German
submarines. Eleven mem,bera of the Mni
enapolis crew were killed.
SEAL UP TRAILS
AND PASSES IN
MOUNTAINS
i
Flying Squadron of Ameri
can Cavalry Operating in
Mexico Is Endeavoring to
Prevent Villa from Con
cealing Himself in the
Dense Regions
SPLENDID WORK DONE
BY Y. 31. C.A. IN WAR
WILL WHIP GROUND
QUITE THOROUGHLY
Starting from Base Near
Casas Grandes, Cavalry
and Detachments of In
fantry Will Try to Drive
the Fugitives into Open
Territory ,
C. V. Hibbard, Who Has Been Engaged
in That Work, Told of His Experi
ences to Three Barre Audi
ences Sunday,
C. V. Hibbard, secretary of tho foreign
commission of the V, M. C. A., spoke at
three churches in the city yesterday and
gave the jieople of the various congrega
tions some very interesting first-hand in
formation in regard to the work which
the Young Men's Christian association is
doing in the foreign countries and more
especially among the soldiers in tho war
zone and the prisoners 'of war in the dif
ferent countries. At tho Congregational
church in the morning Mr. Hibbard dealt
more especially with the work among the
prisoners, explaining the difficulty of the
work at first, which was due to the fact
that the permission of the war oflices of
the countries interested had to 1 con
sulted ami a system of reciprocal conces
sions established,
France, for instance, would not permit
tho association to work among the Gcr-i
man prisoners in her territory unless
Germany would allow them the same
privileges among the French prisoners of
war there. Finally; however, the matter
was fixed up so that at present the asso
ciation is welcomed in every country in
volved in the 'war 'except Turkey. The
$20,000 LOSS
IN FARM FIRE
FAITHFUL WORKER
IN MANY POSITIONS
E.
G. Milham's Buildings
at East Montpelier
Destroyed
100 HEAD OF CATTLE
WERE RESCUED
Buildings Were Formerly
Owned by Horace
M. Farnham
Fire, which started about 8 o'clock this
forenoon in the south end of the barn,
entirely destroyed the buildings on the
farm of E. G. Milham in East Montradier,
causing a loss estimated at about $2I,H)0.
The farm, one of the finest in Washing
ton county, better known as the Stevens
farm and owned and occupied until five
years ago bv Horace M. farnham of
The Minneapolis Loss.
Marseilles, March 27. The British
liner Minneapolis was sunk in the Medi
terranean last Wednesday bv a subma
rine, according to Captain Bibby of the
British steamer Leicestershire, which has
arrived here from Rangoon.
Captain Bibby reports that while in
the Mediterraneon ' lust Wednesday he
received a wireless call for help from
the Minneapolis, which said that the
steamer had just been torpedoed and
was sinking.
The Leicestershire went at full speed
to the assistance of the Minneapolis, but
arrived too late, the vessel having sunk.
The fate of the crew was not known to
Captain Bibby.
prisoners who are interned in England
and the work is merely directed byxthe
association and carried on by capable
men among the prisoners themselves.
Social service committees look after the
donations that are lent in and deal them
out where they are most needed; educa
tional committees arrange classes where
El Taso, Texas, March ". The flying languages may be studied and even such
column of American cavalry to-day is j studios asvhigher mathematics and en
seeking to entrap Villa and his band by gineering taken up under capable in
scaling tip all the trails and passes in struetors; and other bands of men teach
the mountainous district south of El religion anil moral uplift. The speaker
Yalie. With the outlets barred, the stated that the moral atmosphere of the
first work was stared among the civilian , Montpelier. was purchased a year ago
squadrons of cavalry and detachments of
infantry, orMiat.n from a base near
Caaa (IrandeH, will comb the country to
' J: u... i .1 :a m. it.
urivc iitc uuihiil out liiui iiic open.
B. & 31. METHODS
ARE DENOUNCED
AS LAW-BREAKING
GERMANS CLAIM NO DAMAGE
But They Tell of Success in Winging
Three British Seaplanes.
Berlin, March 27, by wireless to Say
ville, N. Y. Xot less than three British
hydroaeroplanes, among them a fighting
aeroplane, were brought down Saturday
by German guns on and about the Island
of Sylt, during an air raid on northern
Sehleswig, according to a German official
communication issued last night.
Bombs dropped in the district of Hoy
er water gate did no damage, says the
statement. .
"From two ships, which were accom
panied by cruiser squadron and a flo
tilla of destroyers, five English hydro
aeroplanes started yesterday morning for
an attack against the German aeronautic
establishment in north Schleswig.
"Xot less than three of them, among
which was a fighting aeroplane, were
forced down by the defensive service on
and about the Island of Svlt. The In
mates of the machines, who were made I
prisoners, are four English officers and
one non-commissioned officer.
"Bombs were only thrown in the dis
trict of the Ifoyer water gate. No dam
age was done."
The Minneapolis was a steamer of 13,
543 tons gross. She was built in !!"
at Belfast and was owned by the Atlantic
Transport company. Late shipping rec
ords do not give the movements of the
vessel, which probably was in the Brit
ish government's service. Trior to the
war the Minneapolis plied between Amer
ican porta and London.
The Minneapolis after the Minnewas-
ka, was the largest of the "Minnie"
steamers in the Atlantic transport line
fleet. She was built in 1000 and car
ried passengers as well as freight. The
steamer was a popular one with the
oceangoing public.
The Minneapolis was one of the steam
ers which did rescue work when the rani
um line steamer Volturno was burned at
sea in 1913. Thirty persons from the
liner were taken into Gravesend by the
Minneapolis.
St. Cecilia's Crew Saved.
London, March 27. The British steam
er St. Cecilia from Portland, Me., March
11 for London, has been sunk, according
to a dispatch to Lloyds from Dover. The
crew was saved.
New Hampshire Public Service Commis
sion Criticized Expenditure of Money
in Efforts t Influence Legislation.
Concord, X. H., March 27.--Criticiama
of the methods employed by the officials
of the Boston & Maine railroad and sub
sidiaries of this state in the expenditure
of money to influence legislation were
contained in a report of the state public
service commission, which was issued
to-day.
Political activities by railroad manag
er, says the report, are entirely foreign
to the purpose for which railroad cor
porations were established. Their busi
ness is to serve the public and not to
govern it. The report dealt particularly
with the activities in connection with
the plan of the Grand Trunk railroad
to build a line through Xew Hampshire
which would have paralleled portions of
the Boston &. Maine leased lines, which
plan was afterwards abandoned. The
commission found no evidence that any
money appropriated by the Grand Trunk
for this campaign had been spent llle
gaily or improperly.
In behalf of the Boston dt Maine rail
road, 31 lawyers were employed, and
they were paid over $13,0X). The com
mission finds that in the Concord &
Montreal .records of tho employment of
George A. Weston of Bellows Falls to
oppose the Grand Trunk, a false voucher
was issued, which, the report says, was
in violation of an act of Congress.
Tt(e commission recommends detailed
reports be made at stated intervals of all
expenditures by corporations for attor
The steamer St. Cecilia was a com-
partively new vessel, having been built
at Greenock in 1913. She was owned by j neys, political agents, advertising and
the Saint Bridges Steamship company of
Glasgow.
Crew of Fenay Bridge Also Saved.
London, March 27. Lloyds reports that
the British steamship Fenay Bridge has
been sunk. The crew was landed.
NO AMERICANS LOST
LIVES ON SUSSEX
VERDUN FRONT HAD
ANOTHER QUIET NIGHT
There Were No Infantry Actions and the
Only Activity JWas East of the
Meuae Where Artillery Was
at Work.
All Whose Names Were on the Passenger
List Have Been Accounted for by
American Embassy
in Paris.
Paris, March 27. Detailed information
gathered by the American embassy indi
cates that no Americans lost their lives
on the Sussex which was damaged by
an explosion while crossing the English
channell Friday afternoon.
All the Americans whose names were
on the passenger list are now accounted
for, the embassy says. It is possible,
however, that there may have been other
Americans, whose names were not on the
list.
"attempts to influence legislation or pub
lic opinion.
INSPECTION COMPLETED.
NEW HAVEN SHOPS
BURN; LOSS $700,000
Fire Swept Along with Great Rapidity as
Firemen Were Handicapped by
. Low Water Pressure.
Xew Haven. Conn., March 27. Three
large Bhops and several smaller buildings
at the yards of the Xew York, Xew Ha
ven &. Hartford railroad in Spring-street
were destroyed bv fire late last night,
causing an estimated loss of $70(1,000.
The shops were close to the railroad
tracks, and all trains were held up sev
eral hours. Explosions of track torpe
does stored in one of the shops made the
work of fighting the blaze perilous.
Nearly all the fire fighting apparatus in
l the citv was called out.
The fire started in a building where
iron was stored, spread to the paint
house, where hundreds of barrels of var
nish and paints caught fire, then jumped
to the signal equipment storehouse, the
boiler shop, the tank shop and the store
house office.
The firemen were handicapped by low
........... i .. .1 i - . i . i i :
...ilij.n linn 171-11 ..Olipieiei V CIlMIIgeu B II. r
the founding of the brandies of the Y. M.
C. A. in them.
At the I'niversalist church in the aft
ernoon a unidn service was held and the
speaker was introduced by Rev, John B.
Ileardon of the I'niversalist church. At
thin service the speaker took up the
work an.ong the soldiers in a more gen
eral way. The remoteness of the war
from here, said the speaker, makes it
impossible for us to understand condi
tions, but he went on to explain some of
them, how the prisoners were confined in
larcre buildings and allotted a certain
small square, etc. The Y.- M. C. A. in
London waa once comparatively weak
but since the starting of the war Lon
don has become an important station for
the conducting of the work. At present
in Britain there are more than 1.000 sta
tions for work among the soldiers. These
Christian association tations are in nil
sorts of buildings, umieued factories,
empty stores, dance halls and even parts
of private houses. Tliev are known as
"huts" and here the soldier can secure
lodging and something to eat at any
time. Maiiv soldiers prefer them to a
hotel, even if they have the money to
star at the latter place. The work is
done strictly on a non -denominational
basis, according to a rule made at the
beginning of the work.
Many society women have become in
terested in the work and are a great help
to the association. The sacrifices they
endure as well as the sacrifices which the
men have to make will necessarily have
some effect on their after life and will no
doubt in many eaes prevent their going
back to their previous manners of living.
Conditions in France and the other
countries are much the same as in Eng
land, though before the war the associa
tion was even weaker there than in the
place first taken up. The soldier consid
ering the uncertainty of his life is apt
to be very religious and the speaker
stated that the men often come to the
Y. M. C. A. official and take the com
munion before going into buttle. In
I Egypt the work of , the association s
making wonderful progress, and it is
hadly needed there, the Indian soldiers
at first were inclined to show their dis
like for the association but this dislike
has in a large measure been overcome i,,
ana the reeling at present or ttie souiicr
of India toward the-association is much
better. The introduction of works of
various Indians in Kngland has done
much to bring out this bettered condition.
Mr. Hibbard also stated that the feel
ing of bitterness toward the enemv was
shown more in the attitude of the people
at home than in that of the men on the
Id. The men on the firing line are
coming, partly through the influence of
the association, to regard a prisoner
from the opposing camp as worthy of as
much care as their own men. Many doc
tors in the army are sent to help injured
prisoners when perhaps they expected to
serve men of their own nationality.
Mr. Hibbard spoke in the Iresbyterian
church at the regular evening meeting on
much the same lines as in his previous!
lectures.
by Mr. Milham, then of Hinesburg, from
J. II. Kuiter of Burlington, who pur
chased of Mr. Farnham for investment.
The sale price, it is understood, was
around $20,000.
All of the cattle in the barn, about 100
head, and other livestock, together with
the house furnishings, were wived by the
occiiants of the farm and willing neigh
bors, but the buildings will lie a total
loss. The Vermont Mutual Fire Insur
ance, company had $7,500 insurance, part
ly reinsured.
The fire started from a cause not de
termined, while those who carrv on the
fnrm -er In anmr r.r. i.urrl n,na eientlv as second assistant engineer.. In
distance from the nuiin buildings; and Odd Fellowship the deceased had been a
for this reaunn cmHidemhle elnnsc.l prominent figure for many years. He
Werner E. Beck, Granite Manufacturer,
Prominent in Fraternities and City
Official, Passed Away Sat
urday Evening.
Werner E. Beck, native of Germany,
second assistant engineer of the fire de
partment and a member of Beck Broth
ers, irranite manufacturer, passed away
at hhi home, 21 Branch street, Saturday
evening at j:15 o'clock. Mr. Beck had
been in failing health since Dec. 1, 1013,
althoiiL'h death was probably due in
directly to a severe illness which he suf
fered in the spring nl 1015. Xear rela
tives surviving are his wife, who wss
.Miss Arabella Iiurie, to whom he was
married in St. Johnsbury June 27, 1900,
and three brothers, August Beck, John A.
Be.k and Walter J. Beck, all of St.
Johnsbury. A sister, Mrs. Ellis Law
rence, also lives in St. Johnsbury. Lo.
thar C. .Beck of Branch street, with
whom the deceased was long associated
in business, is a cousin.
Mr. Beck was born in Storr.ingen, Ho-
henzollen, Germany, May 25, 1873. As a
boy of 11 years he came to America and
made his home in St. Johnnbury, where.
his elementary education in Germany
was supplemented by attendance at the
public schools. While a young man he
wss emploved in the Fairbanks shops.
moving to llarre in IH',12, when he began
to serve his apprenticeship in the gran
ite shop of C. H. Kenerson on Granite
street. There he embarked in the gran-
te business and in the same shed where
ho learned his trade, he continued with
his brother and cousin. The plant now
owned by Beck & Beck is the oldest in
Barre and it is interesting to note that
Mr. Beck was always employed or en
gaged in business in the shop where he
served his time.
Over a period of more than 20 years
Mr. Beck's connection with the Barre fire
department extended. In the days be
fore the city boasted a paid department,
he was foreman of Company 3. Later he
assisted materially in the reorganization
and for some years he had served effi-
BETHEL BILL
TORUNTO1920
Agreement Signed Saturday
Night Expires a Month
After Barre Bill'
LUMPERS HAVE NOT
SETTLED AS T
Cutters' Bill J- -conditional
on Accer' y.e by the
G. C. I. Executive
I before the blare was discovered, enabling
the (lames to gam much headway. Aside
from a few hand chemical extinguishers,
the buildings were without fire protec
tion, the water supply, while adequate
for general purposes, being almost use
less in fighting fire. It was quickly seen
that the buildings were diKimed and
neighliors assisted Mr. Milham and his
employes to save the furniture and stock.
There were about 25 tons of hay in the
loft, which was destroyed.
The house, which was two stories in
height, had 18 rooms, all finished in hard
wood. It was erected in 1PK5 by Thomas
B. Stevens, father of Mrs. Farnham, at
a cost of between $0,000 and $8,000, and
the barn, which had dimensions of 50 by
104 feet and which had accommodations
for about 125 head of cattle, was built
seven years later at a cost of about the
same. Building material at that period
waa much cheaper than at the present
time and the cost to replace the build
ings would aggregate nearer $20,000 at
the present time. Both. house and barn
were roofed with slate and equipped with
all modern conveniences.
The property was owned by Mr. Farn
ham until about a vear ago, although he
removed to Montpelier five years ago and
located on the Xorthfield road. Mr. and
Mrs. Milham moved to the farm from
Hinesburg, where they carried on a large
farm for a number of years.
Bethel, March 27. A four-year agree
ment to expire March 31, 1920, was
signed Saturday night by Supt. W. C.
Clifford of the Woodbury Granite com
pany and the members of the committee
of the granite cutters union representing
the local branch. The members of tho
committee which has conducted negotia
tions throughout the period of the con
troversy now happily ended are John Ca
hill, Mark Savage, Halo Rieharda, George
Sturk and Joseph Rossi. The bill as
signed is practically the old Bethel bill
except for the change in price to 50 cents
per hour minimum for stonecutters.
The delay in reaching an agreement is
understood to liave been due to the wish
of the men for a five-year period, bring
ing the expiration a year later than that
of the Barre granite belt, Hardwick and
other places. As it is, the men are con
gratulating themselves that their bill, if
not a year later, will expire a month
later than others in Vermont and a
month nearer the time previously con
tested for by the workers, May 1, and
triarch of Minnehaha encampment and farther from the time suggested by the
AGED MAN BURNED
TO DEATH IN HOME
NEAR MONTPELIER
was a past noble errand of Hiawatha
lodge, Xo. 20, I. O. O. F., a past chief
pa
a past captain of Canton Vinton, Xo. 9,
P. M Bright Star Rebekah lo.lge.-Xo. 18,
numbered him a member and he also be
longed to Green Mountain council, Royal
Arcanum, and Barre lodge, XT. E. 0. P.
At the time of his death he was a
member of tho Republican city commit
tee and a justice of the peace. When
ever his services were in demand he gave
freely of his time and energy. In several
oltices of trust which he held from time
to time he exhibited rare faithfulness to
duty. Various circles are mourning in
his departure a reliable counselor and a
w. rm friend. '
The funeral is to be held in the L'ni
versalist church Tuesday afternoon at
2:30 o'clock. The pastor. Rev. J. B.
Reardon, will be the officiating cergyman
and interment is to be made in Hope
cemetery. Previously there will be a
brief prayer service at the house. The
fire department is to be represented in
the bearers by Chief C. B. Gladding and
manufacturers, which was Jan. 1.
The agreement, as Higned, is subject to
the approval of the international officers
of the granite cutters' organization but
is not expected to Ins rejected by them,
as all important clauses of the agree
ment had met with their approval pre
viously except the duration, which, in
view of the conditions named above, it is
not believed will prove a stumbling
block. Everybody here regards the incident as
closed and the courteous manner in which
all the negotiations have been carried on
has been remarked many times by the
onlookers. The memlicr's of the strike
committee praise Mr. Clifford for his pa
tience and friendliness, while he has only
surra words of regard for the committee.
Mr. Clifford left yesterday for a few
days absence in Hardwick and Xew York
without having concluded an agreement
with the lumpers' union, but there is a
feeling that their agreement will not be
the remaining five Who are to act are flayed long. Until the lumpers' strike
io Brunei, uunrva, mere tun, i cuurse,
be no general resumption of work by the
cutters, although preparations to resume
work will be under way soon.
Superintendent Clifford seemed pleased
that the cutters new agreement will ex
pire on the same day as the one with the
Bethel quarry workers.
employes of Beck Brothers, Thomas Bail
ey, Frank Adams, John Howell, John
(iregware and Thomas Davidson. It is
requested that flowers be omitted.
'BODY TAKEN TO ST. J0HSNSBTJRY.
Joseph Cadman, 78, Lived Alone and Was
Considered Somewhat Eccentric His
Neighbors Discovered Fire and Lo
cated Body in the Ruins in Cellar.
Joseph Cadman, aged 78 rears, who
resided on
a email farm in Miadv
Rill.
seve'i miles from Montpelier on the
r Branch road, was burned to
yesterday morning when his
-'-t fire from some unknown
c.i i . lived alone and it was nearly
half an hour, neighbors, believe, before
the flumes were discovered by adjoining
farmers. The man's body was found.
with the arms and lejrs nearly burned
off, in the cellar of the building, and
from the position of the body it is
thought that he waa awakened by the
crackling of the flames, tried to reach a
window, but was suffocated before he
reached the open air. Xeighbors succeed
ed in laving the small barn adjacent to
the house, the latter being burned to the
ground.
The fire broke out about 2 o'clock, per
sons who discovered it are of the opinion,
but it was nearly half an hour before it
was discovered.
Mr. Cadman wae 7S years old and was
Following the Funeral of M. W. Nelson in
Barre To-day.
Hieh mass of requiem over the re
mains of Michael W. Xelson, a prominent
Barre granrte manufacturer, whose death
occurred at his home, 81 Merchant street,
early Saturday mornincr, was
DISSENSION IN QTJiNCY.
at St.. Monica's church this morning at
6 o'clock. Relatives and many friends
of the dereased attended the services.
Members of Barre council, K. of C, St.
John's court,. C. O. F. and Granite City
Some Manufacturers and Some Cutters
Said To Be Against Associations.
Quincy, Mass., March 27. For several
celebrated days there have been rumors about town
of dissension among both the granite
manufacturers and the granite cutters
over the proposed bill to take the place
of the agreement which expired March 1.
Some of the manufacturers are reported
camp, M. W. of A., to which Mr. Xelson to be willing to sign a five-year bill, al
belonged, were also present. The bear-j though the association as a whole stands
ers were: E. J. Owens, A. H. Burke. E. i f'' the four-year agreement. On the
X. Norniandeau, Charles J. Leclair. l'at I other hand some cutters are said to bo
trick Brown, A. J. Loranger, J. Edward readv to a four-year bill contrary to
Murphy and Timothy J. Denning.
The bodv was taken over the M. & W.
R. railroad at 7:20 o'clock to St. Johns
bury, where interment was made in the
Catholic cemetery beside the remains of
Mr. Xelson's first wife, who died a num
ber of years ago. An extra coach was at
tached to the passenger train to accom
modate a large number of people who ac
companied the remains.
FUNERAL AT HEDDING CHURCH.
Services for Mrs. Rhoda Cave Were Held
Sunday.
Funeral services for Mrs. Rhoda Cave,
wife of the late James B. Cave, who
passed away at her home, 50 Elm sterct
held in the iled-
tlie wishes of the branch, which is hold
ing almost daily meetings and voting un
officially to stand out for five years.
SLEIGH POLE PIERCED HORSE.
DEATH OF SCHOOL GIRL.
Miss Frances Emma Young Had Been HI
Two Months.
.Miss t ranees r.mma loung, youncest a
daughter of the late 'Alexander Young j body waa brought to the Hall
and Mrs. Emily Young, passed away at , ing rooms in Montpelier and t
born in Canada, although he came to Friday morning, were
Shady Rill 25 vears ago from Cambridge. ding Methodist church Sunday atternoon
He w:as an odd character -and associated i at 2:30 o'clock, the pastor, Rev. E. F.
but little with bis neighliors. It w as his j Xewell. officiating. There was a very
custom to walk to Montpelier and back! large gathering of. neighbors, relatives
when in need of provisions, always re-: and older friends of the deceased. The
fusing to ride in a team. He is survived bearers were: C. S. Andrews, C. n. Ken
hv a wife and three children, who reside erson. I.vman Taft and A. J. Baldwin.
jn Montpelier, and by two brothers and; The body was placed in the receiving
sister, whereabout unknown. The! vault at Elmwood. there to repose until
Paris, March 27. There were no infan-1
try actions in the v enlun region last
night, this
says. East of the Meuse artillery action ; I'nitwi States infantrv
water riressiire. and it. im not until aftr
mi.lnn.ht that, the fir n u mntn.U.A : her home on the East street extension
Vermont National Guard Is in Excellent j j-(r n,.rv nn hour there was a steady I1'1'" morning at 1 o'clock, the end follow
Condition. eries of "explosions of track torpedoes, im n illness of two months. Miss Young
Tl,. , M T. . which were stored in one of the buildings. "rn in n,trr ""nd 12 years ag.
tiona. Guard was completed Saturday by ! l"'?1' " W ham Y ,nn, ' !
A number of freight cars were partly oung. Pearl oung. and Harry oung
undertak
he funeral
was held from the Miady Kill church at
I o'clock this afternoon, with burial in
Lewis cemetery, Middlesex Center.
LIVESTOCK SAVED.
fternoon's official statement l ii, r ..,,. u. ..'.i, i eisted the firemen in their work
j - v - j t mien piRin imanirv. lie was nvom- , .... . , m I-, , . i -.it '
as violent along the Pouaumont-Xam ! p,njP,l the inspection tour br Adit. . b- All trains on the main line were -The .l-eaed as a stud, nt in the sixth ( Midleburv. March 27. -The ho.,
ne. West of the Meuse the night sil.U. Till. son of St. Albans and Col. Ira h"M "P several hours, but after midnight If Matnewson K-hool and was hATnn ,nd ,he frm miiIllin?, the
But All the Farm Buildings at Frank
Severy place in Goshen Were Burned.
Runaway Span Struck Single Rig Con
taining Three Men.
Three travel parties converged at Wil
liamstown Saturday night in an accident
fraught with hazards for at least five
persons and with fatal results for a fin.
horse -owned by Clarence Wilfore, a Wil
liamstown liveryman. A young woman
named Spragne, who lives on the west
hill in Chelsea, was driving through t!e
village with a companion, w hen the sleigh
.broke as the outfit crossed the south rail
road crossing. Xeither occupant was in
'jured, but the horses, freeing themselves
from the sleigh and with only the HI;
between tliem, started to run. As they
rounded the corner near the Seaver feec
store, they collided with a single team,'
.driven by Floyd Wilfore, who had as his
passengers, Charles Riddel and O. I). Ran- t
ilall of this city.
Mr. Wilfore reined his steed sharply
to the side of tne road, nut the move
came a moment late. Rushing head
long toward the single rig, the frightened
puir from Chelsea droe the pole into
the Wilfore horse. Xone of the occupants
,,,c ., e.t were injured and the runaways were
Granite City Club Held Jollification Sat-' ' . ,. .
u.a...,t -f .headed a short distance up the road,
nrday Evening. ! veterinarian who was summoned, said t' r
Nineteen hundred and fifteen in local livery horse would liae to be killed, (hie
. ; ,r .t. : .e 1 i II.
Qtioitiug circles was recailcl in reiiuni- i mr iimimeu pair in nurses mis omoi;
later in the spring, w hen interment is to i
lie made in Hope cemetery.
CELEBRATED QU0ITING SEASON.
line. West of the Meuse the night was
relatively calm.
GERMAN TRENCHES
BLOWN UP BY BRITISH
German Official Statement Admits De
atructioa of 100 Yards of Earth
works Claims Success Against
the Russians.
Berlin, via London, March 27. More
than 100 yards of (hthuh trenches near
Heloi were Mown up by the British, a
enrding to the (German official ttat'fnent
tiav. In the west IYuian region the
DIED At" AGE OF
90.
nei,i m nign es.-m a --nooi male. ynnk H.frv in f,,,n wpr,
She also attend.fl the t hurrh of the ... , . ' u ...j n ..ii
(;ood Shepherd and belonged to the j.i- s.tm-d.r evening. The lo-s amount, inio
;t'ie thousands and is partly covered by
insurance. The livestock was saved.
nior auxiliary of that church.
Death of Montpelier GirL
BIBS PUNCTURED LUNGS.
Germans were succefu! in recapturing ' f mind the m-n evervwhere taking a deep
aa artillery obeervatwrn position Kt by interr't in the work, wrio-is. m l rej.lv
them ca March SO. near Xaorca lake on j to nwpmid to any demand that may be
tie Russian front, the statement says. made npoo them."
L. Reeves of Xorthfield Thef vUited i traflie was again resumed
the stations of all 12 infantry companies
and inspected both equipment and personnel.
General Tillotson said before leavin? j William W. Moore, Prominent Farmer in
Burlington ttiat "the regiment is w. 11 Addison County.
1 .-.i ... ;l f ... I : -.. .1 i
in a more efficient condition that I have I..0.' 'V " .u ' ',ara " ".""r Word was received in Montpelier to
ever seen it. The strength is above what "", '"m-T re.'d. nt of th.s place. ,he (lwltb pf Mi Jrrn, llt.
it has ever been before at this time of and a prosro,,. and prominent farmer lUllv,tl,,.r ,,f j,r. ,nJ M. . W. Mit. hell
the rear. There are upon the rolls about "f - l fon nty. die.1 esterday, ag.-d ,t tlie u,.me of her aunt in Bradford.
oo ";,-.,. mwA vi.... .1. ri ! years. He was a well kn n sho p h..re the T..mi la.lv l,aH Wn
r,nt were reent at'the inrwsrti.m raiser an 1 horseman. Besides his wife, lis ' tjTjnt; fr the past four month. Mi '' North Clarendon, employed in the But
-The absentee were practicallv all ac- -leaven five on. P. II. Moore of Mont- MnVhell had b-rn ill for a year with
i . iv,n,,..r i p.. i . i,.iw- I calm. .. i .. ,j. i. .Moore ana t 11. .noore : tnher. ular trouble. ! u vr-ar of
s the only company with I'M per rent ' r-horetiam. . t. .ore ot vMn.l4, age and have, beside her per. MOone : reou oi injuries earij oiri.v m rn
iliw, r. .M're. mn:T .i me enn. iTer. I. urine, an.i .er auni. iirs. Jennie "'E ' .-n.,,
don inn. an l one dang! ter. Mr. L. K. rW,.) of Brad'ord. Mr. and Mr, j hi'e at work in t'-e ash pit. IVaths
Munf'H of Springfiel L Mas. The fu-i !;i, H, !! and I.u-ille went to that fdaee be to injuries to hi hmg. -eral it
neral will be held at the hfue Tuesday , ! .t st irUj. He i tiir.gr fr t!.. j having ten fra -tared. He 5 yearn
morning at nYlor-k. Banal will be at'lM'tien More. The funeral to be b.l.I!oll and bwes three e and a sauH
Crowa poiot, X. Y. t PraL' i. tr. .
wno and xnetfiofe at Clan Gordon hail
Saturday evening when many members
of the Uronite C ity limiting club, with
their guest, came t.igcther for the club's
nniiut jollification. Ian-ing wa the
and will proliahlv have to be
Mr. Wilfore valued his lior-e at
attendance. eeral of the rompame
are full and have waitin- bt. We
injured
killed.
The passengers, Randall and Rid lei. al
lowed that tliev were encountering tiler
. . . : 1 .... .1 i i L. 1 . . ..
main feature OT Tile anair l.l iih.: i,,r Sllir 01 ir.mi.i-. iimpnnn n in, . -i v
thoe who would trip the well known compelled to turn back at hast I'.rook
I light fantastic fumiiJied by Mr. field in the afternoon after they hs I
!('oot and Mi Stevens. Toward 10 started for White Riier .Junction on .1
I.-I. tiinre wa an intermission, at motorcycle eouipp.'.i w it h runner. W hen
" ! whi. il tune a substantial luncheon nas the drive wfi.'el faiW to make t?ic ev
Causing Death cf William Standish Who lf,rV( .,n,.;,.-.,n hirh supplemented pe ted impreion on te nulling raur,
Was Struck by Engine. ith ahundm.e of refreshment proi..-i the young men dccid.-I to alMn.l"ii tlcir
Rutland. March 27. William Standi-U through tie rt.n n.'. Nut until the hour trip.
of midnight afproarhel. .lid the dancer :
l.n.l r.llr,,.d var.l ia thiitr i.A . reav. snatche of "Auhl 1-ang .Syne" 1 Notice.
the Rutland 'hospital yesterday a the eehoinp through the hall indicating that J,P m mW cf Hiawatha l -!ec. N.
the merrymaking a tuoiu 10 end. j j. . (1. t. t .. are -riiiv re'i.-te.i i
The committee in hrge of the affair ..pi at t!e 1. . '. K. hall at I p. M.
(y.n.i.'ed if Mer. Waiker. Morgan.
M. ne. Imim. I'.rter. THnia, tt.
I.r.ig sn.l Kraer. AniK ttom plan are
in the mak.rg fr the club's ISl quit
irg .
Tn.,iv. March lor the purpiM of
attrndtng the ' ire nl n ri-- of ir fa '
Vr.ror. W. I". IV. k. Kvery In tier i
parti.-ularlv rqu-ted to be rcfi.t . Per
X. j.
