1 nff? f
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1916
vmrv Tvn rvTCTQ 0N trains and nejw
ruICrj TWO LLNTS ptanps five oknt
I I IT 1 V 1 t
iif.
SOLDIERS WOUNDED
. fi VILLA SNIPERS
i
Unconfirmed Repoi is That Clashes Have Occurred In Which
Mexicans Were Killed Americans Press Close On Villa's
Heels Wiih Better Mounts Peons Influenced hy Un
confirmed Reports Are Said To Be Rallying Under
Banner of Bandit Chief
! By E. T. Conkle,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
El Paso, Texas, March 27. Unconfirmed reports that
Villista snipers wounded six soldiers of the American ex
peditionary force near Namiquipa and that several Mex
icans were killed or wounded by the return fire, were
denied today by J. 0. Crockett, vice president of the Mex
ieo and Northwestern railroad. He stated he was in con
stant communication with Casas Grandes and points
south.
Villa is fleeing from Namiquipa toward Sierra Tara
humares, according to army advices. A censored report
from the expedition stated that Villa was impressing
peons into his service and that all who refused to join
him were executed. Thirty-five were conscripted at El
Valle and at Namiquipa half the Carranza garrison is said
to have disappeared. It may have joined Villa.
Villa's horses are poor. The Americans within two
days ride of the outlaw are better mounted and hope to
head him off before he can obtain refuge in the Sierras.
Refugees arriving here said Villa had encouraged
Canuto Reyes, his leader in the Torreon district, with re
ports of great victories. They declared box cars carry
ing a number of women and children from Torreon
reached Monterey after Villistas had engaged in a run
ning battle with the train guard. While bullets flew,, the
passengers built barricades of trunks and hid behind
them.
R. F. Crosby, a miner of Parral, said that Mexicans
there believed the Villistas wildest stories, and that peons
were gladly joining the bandits hoping to live by looting.
There are practically no peons employed in Parral at
present, according to Crosby.
1 out-las. An.., Mnr. 27. Though of- siou to use Mnxirnn railrouds is a vital
fi-i illv .lisornliti'il in Agua l'rieta per-j issue.
slst.'iit report were circulated here to-j Kiuiston emphatically denied that Vil
dav that a number of de facto uovern-jla hid escnned southward throunh tiie
uu'iit troops have mieeunilied to ranks of Americans who used the Mex
poisoueil wells in the Vcjui country. Itj ico Northwestern railroad to get behind
was pointed out there tiiat troops of: him. lie declared Villa broke through
General Dieuez command oprratinK , the Carriinza lines, marching to Ma
against the Vaipiis was recently report-j dera valley through the Eiahiicora re
el to have been raviged by a mysteri-j Riuu.
oiis eiiideniic. Coupled with reports j That government Action with regard
from llermosillo, capital of Sonura, that to usins; the railroads is imminent was
::imi troops of the I'ifth br'iL'ade had i indicated by dispatches stating automo-
died from poisoned wells this was con
sidered significant, lictter feeling ex
isls betn-eu Auieiirans and Mexicans
today as a result of (leneral C .dies' in
vitation to city officials to visit tlie
Mexican fort at Cnbullano, 18 miles
below the border, where a menacing
f'p'p was reported concentrated.
Situation Is "Jrave.
au Antimio, Texas, Mar. 27 Tliounh
Major Ci'iicril Tied Kiinstou today
would not affirm or deny reports of
'iiiranzistas openly' aiding Francisco
Villa, army headquarters gve.out an
iini'i'c:ion that the situation was grave.
( ominiiuic itiou lines of the advance
of the I'nited States troops were de
scriheil Funstou as 'pitiru!ly weak"
and lieciuiiiiig a menace to t!ie expedi
tion. The problem of supplying the
- iiicricnns is becoming ueute. Fermls-
9jc$:je:jC9c3:$9c:t:$:t:9!e
ABE MARTIN '
IL
Lafe Biol has sued fcr separate
t
r . a in1 s
1 rrw
Mrs.
.:.. e. It leaked out tit a checker uuie Jions as they rode through the street
'.lay ihnt II. e S,uls 'II return t' th'of Paris en route to the momentous
I tiMican pirty jest as sion as he. kin; meeting today.
M. I a sioi.egrapher t' taS-.e his an- Weeks niro the Germans learned ( ' '
i:uu!iccmcnt.
luie triiciis witu loans or iiangeii wueei
had started for the front.
Rre On Drivers.
Columbus. X. M,, jrar. 27. Many
drivers of army trucks arriving from
the front today reported thit theyliad
been fired upon. All escaped injury.
Huge ouantnins of supplies have been
unloaded here during the pnst 21 hours.
Hundreds of cavalry remounts and
more than HON troops are preparing to
go to the front.
Lieutenant 'Dargue left Jit sunrise for
an aeroplane flight to the skirmish
line. Ol'ficals at the headquarters
bnse here reiterated the statement that
they expected a long hard campaign,
('outran- to reports, Villa has not been
surrounded, according to authentic ad
vices. Hard Campaign Faced.
San Antonio, Texas. Mar. 27. Weeks
and mouths of hard campaigning are
facing the American expeditionary sol
diers in Mexico today. Latest advices
to Major tieneral Fred Fuuston indi
cate that the "fox of the Sierris,1'
Francisco Villa has succeeded in elud
in" tile encircling attempt of Ameri
cans and Cnrranzistas and is advancing
rn id'"
- h the Madera valley.
(Continued on Pago Five.)
WOULD MAKE SEPARA TE
PEACE. WITH ITALIANS
Paris. Mar 27. Germany hus tried it.;
best to detach Italy from the entente
allies the United Press lenriied when
the " sii'r war coiincil " met in Taris
today.
By shewd procigauda and exploita-
lion of (ierman gains at Verdun, tlir !
kiiser hoped to create so mmh dis
satisfaction in Italy that the Italian
! government wouhf reconsider and not
join with oilier nations in a concerted
I plan of action against the central pow- j
ers. I onsenuenl v the Italian Premier
and foreign minister were given ova-1
the proposed allied war council her' j
U. S. MOUNTAIN BATTERY PART OF THE PUNITIVE
EXPEDITION SENT INTO MEXICO TO GET
. This mountain battery is a part of the punitive expedition which has gone into Mexico in an effort to pet
Villa, dead or alive, and to wipe out his marauding bands of followers. These men, most of them seasoned cam-'
paigners, veterans of Indian campaigns, are thoroughly familiar with the kind of warfare which will be carried
on by Villa in his fight against extermination.
THEY INTERFERE
iti
Slatement Issued After Sen
ator Hold Caucus at
Washington
Washington, Mar. 27. Charges that
republicans in the senate were attempt
ing to interfere with President Wil
son's foreign policies and stir up new
international troubles were denied to
il iv in a statement I'nited States Sen
ator .lacob H. Gallinger issued after a
caucus of republican senators. Tho
caucus urged that more troops and pos
siblv the militia be rushed to the bor
der." "Republican senators realize that
present dealings in the Mexicin crisis
rest with the president," said the state
ment, whimi was issued in behalf of all
who attended the caucus.
"TherTepublionn senators have not at
any time had any purpose of interfer
ing with the executive or with any de
partment of the government but ire
most solicitous that the American expe
dition should bo adequately protected
and reinforced if necessary nnd that
the border shall be provided with forces
sufficient to prevent raids similar to
the one at Columbus. v
"While realizing. that our informa
tion ninv not be fully complete, we be
lieve, upon the inform ition we do have,
that all available regulars should be
eat -to the border and that they shall
be reinforced by the national guard if
rireunwtanees demnnd. Not only should
bjfancisco Villa and his ninrdcrous bind)
he cantureil and punished out lives ami
property of Ann riciins on both sides of
the border should be protected, which
heretofore has not been done by our
government. ' '
Tariff Commission.
Washington, Mar. 27. The adminis
tration's bill providing for a tariff
commission of six members with not
more than three iroin any one politic 1
party was introduced today in the house
by itepresentative Hainey, of Illinois.
It appropriates jiHOH.noil annually for
maintenance of such a commission.
Immigration Bill.
Washington, Mar. 27. I!y i vote of
22."i to 82 the house today retained in
the Burnett immigration bill the clause
providing that immigrants be required
Alarmed at the prosper; of their enem
ies forming a program of closest nr
tary nnd economic co-opcration for
maximum offensive efficiency, tile 0"
mans attempted to capture Verdun. 1
bcving the moral effect of such
stroke would be enough to trait the pr
posed conference nnd put fear in I
hearts of Italian troops on other front
Propagandists were sent to Italy, lv
efforts of the Italian government conn-
t'riicted their attempt to swny Itiiiin
public opinion, nnd the Teutonic failur
at erdon wns t he ruin li iiw.
The outcome of the wnr council rmr'.
today is as yet unknown, but the firt.t
step 'of the councillors will probnblv be
to inform the world that nil allies are r,
unit nuninst nnv nf Rerlin i,rent
peace suggestions.
'. , j -'AM- !' !
EEEF GOES HIGHER
PortYuid, Or., Mar. 27. The
juice of beef struck a new high
record today when steers on
foot sold for . at the North
Portland stdck yirds. The
wholesale price of beef niny
soon be advanced to lo cents a
1 ound.
!
to read ami write their own language.
President Wilsoc is expected to veto
the measure bccu.ise of this clause.
Bandit Leader Has Few Fol
lowers and People Become
Friendly with Americans
By H. D. Jacobs.
(I'nileil Press Staff Correspondent.)
C. S. Army Headquarters, near Dub
bin, Mexico. Mar. 27. Francisco Villa
will not prove a formidable enemy if
brougnt to bay, in the belief of army
officers. It wis learned that the ban
dit ihief had made speeches, inform
ing Mexicans that the Americans were
intervening in Mexico ami would con
fiscate their produce. A staff officer
said Tinted States troops found the
Mexicans sullen at first but more
friendly after explanations had been
made and money exhibited for the pur
chase of provender. He thought that
Mexico could bo quickly won over to
American ideas by a campaign of edu
cation.
This staff member penetrated to LI
Valle and Nsuniquipa. lie said he found
toe Mexican tanners industrious hut
sick of being preyed upon by various
tactions.
Villa than
loiil the remainder of his
Columbus raid wounded at LI Valle. I
There he forced all males found in town i
to line up, separated the old from the
young and impressed 3.5 of the bitter
into his army under penalty of death
if they resisted.
It was learned that Villa hid Pablo
Lopez, one nf his chiefs, with friciofS !
ne lr San Geronimn. Both of the man a On the eastern side, Germans re
legs were wounded at ( 'olunibus. Iciptured positions near Mokrzyce
Wiien Villa marched into Namiqiiipii j which were lost March 20, capturing
he also practiced conscription tWe. jjjiill Russian.
But in spite of this recruiting he now '
has only too tatigued followers, rag
gcd, unwilling and mounted on poorly
nourished horses. His urtillery which
once won him great victories in pitched
battles with large forces has dwindled
to three machine guns.
Wounded found by the Americans
piid Villa forced thm to attacked
Columbus, riding among his reluctant
men with his revolver drawn, threaten
ing to shoot all who refused to advance.
They said he shot down six of his fol
lowers during the retreat, so angry was
lie over the detent.
Union divine services were held in
Dublau camp Snudiiv afternoon. Fath
er Francis P. .loy
e celebrited mnss in
the forenoon. The men in camp rc
enjoying il'ily exercises tending to
harden them, lucre is practically no
sickness.
GARFIELD'S VIEWS
San Francisco, Mar. 27. That Un
united States army and navy had been
"oppressed" by the present adminis
tration wns the assertion today of
James II. Garfield, of Ohio, former sec
retary of the interior. He declared the
expedition into Mexico exposed the "in
efficiency of our system of
preparedness for wnr."
national
VIU.A
ENTENTE POWERS IN
Extraordinary P r e c autions
Taken to Prevent Unwel
come Visitors
Paris, March 27. Kxtraordinary pre
cautions were taken twlay to prevent
Zeppelins from raiding the building
where representatives of all the allied
nations were, meeting in war council.
The biggest fleet of aeroplanes assem
bled in months flew out at dawn to
form aerial scout lines extending into
the, northern suburbs. Working in re
lays, the swarms of aircraft constantly I
circled over the housetops, maintain
ing sharp watch for German machines.
The weather was considered favorable
for Zeppelins, it wns believed there
was little cause for alarm, but no
chances were taken of bornibs crashing
through the foreign office, building
roof while the conferees who guide the
allies' destinies were assembled' there.
Among the men at the council board, J
while the aeroplanes cruised the sky
lanes to keep harm away from them,
were the commanders of the British,
French and Italian armies, the Serbian
I'rince Kegent, the premiers of France.
(Irent Britain, Italy, Belgium, Serbia
and other nations. Military questions
were discussed today. Economic ques
tions are scheduled for consideration to
morrow. The conference probably will
end bv tomorrow night.
Ru Wans Are Repulsed.
Berlin, Mir. 27. Ifcpulse of further
j Unssian attacks near .lacol.stailt and
! Post way, with enormous Slav losses,
n officinllv claimed to.lav. Artillery
fighting at Verdun was reported.
(ierman .aviators bomb irdcd rnilroad
stations at Dvinsk and Vilejki, through
whii-h the Hiissians transport supplies
for their armies.
The principal activity on tho western
front was near St. K.loi where tiie Brit-
lish were admitted in nave uesirojcn
too vnrds of Teuton trenches
GERMANS HURL SHELLS
INTO DOOMED VERDUN
CAUSING GREAT FIRES
By William Philip Simms. I About :!0 big shells crash into Vcr-
( United Press Stnff Correspondent.) dun every day. Our party irrived
i,'. i. ..,, II,,.. I,. .,.,,(,. rw v.ir.lnii
... , . . ,,. . . ',, . ..
Mar. 2,.-Tl,r,co baffled in the,,- et-
, fort to enter Verdun, the Germans are
j f , , v Rcemingly bent on the
struction. Daily thev hurl
city's dc -
large in -
cndiiirv shells into business ami resi-
dcntial districts. I suw several large begun. I lie scene was intensely grip
fires riiL'intf simultaneously in private ping. Great clouds of smoke pierced
houses ami trade establishments. (The:
German communique Snlurdav reported
Venluu afire.!
From a military standpoint, the city
is unseratched. Otnerwise. however, it
seenis destined to become another
liheims. Arms or Ypies. Destruction
of its beautiful cnthedial, bishops pal-
i ace and other no'i'.l buildings is threat-:
cued.
Dl
1
MAY SOON
No Other Action Can Be Taken If Found That German Sub
marine Sunk Liner SussexAt Least One American
Aboard Was Lost, and State Department Awaits Evi
dence Concerning Details of Disaster Action Expected
To Come Quickly
By Robert J. Bender,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Washington, March 27. Diplomatic relations with
Germany will probably be broken off if the government
finds that a German submarine torpedoed the Sussex, high,
administration officials said today.
"The president is awaiting facts," announced the
1 White House. President Wilson has asked the state de
! partment to rush- the work of gathering official reports.
He conferred with Secretary Lansing by teiepnone.
No expression of opinion is forthcoming from either
until available evidence has been gathered and they are
more clearly aware o fexactly what happened. Days,
may elapse before it is definitely ascertained whether the
Sussex was made victim of an unwarned submarine at
tack and there is overwhelming belief here that a break
with Germany will certainly follow. A rupture could only
be prevented by Germany proving that none of its under
sea boats was rcssponsible for the assault.
A fragment of bronze, such ns is used
in (Ierman torpedoes, wns found in the
wreckage of the' Sussex, according to
information received here, it is vh
known that a tlerinnn submarine wns
operating near where the Sussex explo
sion occurred.
The state department's view is thai
if it is established a submarine was re
sponsible, there will be no need to in-iuire-
-t.. its. nationality, a. neither
Turkish nor Austrian under sea boats
operate in the Knglish channel.
The White House holds the same
view. There probaoiy will be no in-
nuirv made to Uerinnnv because in
view of the Htntus of previous negotia
tions, America's posuton is believed to
be clear nnd only one action remains
to be taken.
llowewr, drastic steps would await
replies to requests for further infor
mation which nlreaov nave been for
warded. The administration wants tr
',e positive about all circumstances be
fore taking filial steps. All circles re
gard the situation as most grave,
"First reports are always thr
worst," said Senator Stone. "W'c aro
still hoping that danger of a break mny
be cleared away."
It has been known for weeks the'
President Wilson has been informed
that unquestionably if he severs diplo
i..:.... (i.ni,..:.,M .i,...i...A
. h ,.,,,, K)llt.
L'vcn if on Americans on tho Sussex
were saved this does not alter the grav
itv of the situation, since the United
!;...... i . .:..!.
States holds that no nation has a right
to kill or endanger American citizens
by torpedoing vessels without warning
Germany Discredits.
Berlin, Mnr. 27. ireports that the
Sussex had been damaged by a German
submiirine were generally disbelieved
here today. The admiralty, however,
has not yet denied the charge. Teutons
submarine operating off the French
const probably will not return for days.
In the meantime, officials hoped that
neutrals would not base their opinions
of the disaster on nillicd versions of it.
Piece of Torpedo Found.
Washington, Mnr. 27. A piece to
bronze metal similar to that used in
German torpedoes has been found in the
Sussex wreckage, an official informer
the American consul ut Boulogne, ac
cording to state department announce
ments today.
Say All Were Saved.
London, Mar. 27. All Americans who
there during the morning when there
; was a ill. I asked the commander if
bombarnment would oc-
,.ul.f
i "Certain, that's our daily ration,
! lie replied.
As he spoke the terrific explosions
by red flashes of flume rose over the
(itv. Guns hiniinered a titanic uccoin-
i paniineiit.
Northeast we could see the crest of
Douliumont under 1 leni h lire. It re-
seiubb-d Vesuvius belching black
smoke, On its southern slope German
shells exploded thickly in flushes of
(Continued oa Tag' Two.)
BE
By Charles B. Stewart.
(United Press staff correapon-)
dent.)
London, Mur. 27. Several
Americans were seriously in
jured when a terrific, explosion
damaged the British steamer
Sussex in the English channel.
but no United Stutes citizens
were.- lost, the American em- '
bassy announced today.
Miss Calliope Fennell, of New
York, reported killed, has been
located in Paris. The announce
ment confirmed the report thnt
Elizabeth Baldwin and her pa
rents of Philadelphia, had been
saved. They are ut Boulogne.
were aboard the Sussex hove been saved
and accounted for, the United States
embassy's statement said today.
Another Liner Lost.
London, Mar. 27. Eleven persons
were killed when the British liner Min
neapolis wns sunk by a submarine in
the Mediterranean Wednesday, it wan
announced today.
The Mincnupoli's presumably was cur-
I rying troops or supplies to Salonika. It
'I u l-ir.in I . I .!.. i .
I "u" " lu" TV . -. i
twecn huropean ports and tho United
States prior to the war. When the Vnl-
tnrno was in trouble, the Minenupolis
figured in rescuing its pusscngers. At
tho war's outbreak the vessel was tak
en over by the government and put in
tho king s service.
FirHt word of tho sinking was
brought to AlarsoiK a by the British
steamer Leicestershire, which caught
her wireless cull for help but arrived
after the .Minneapolis had disappeared
under the sea. In announcing that If
were "lulled" the admiralty indicated
thnt the vessel possibly was shelled.
Others aboard are understood lo have
been saved.
Three More Sunk.
London. Mur! 27. Three more ves
sels have been sunk in the past 21 hours
it wus learned today. They were the
French steamer Hebe, the British shi -(erne,
and the Bliti.di fi-ih carrier
Khartoum. Nine of the hitter's eiciv
wero reported missing.
Transport Goes Down.
Berlin, Mar, 27. A French transport
with troops from Salonika has been
mined nnd sunk with largo casualties,
Athens dispatches dec lured today. Only
7:1 were saved.
However, those undeserving candi
dates need not lose hope. Failing to
get into office, they will still have It
chance til break into jail.
:C3fc:te)c!tc$:)c$',cC9c:fe
; THE WEATHER
sfc ae sc ac sfc sc sfc ac sflc sc sft aQc 3e
Oregon: To
night und Tikm
day gen eiolly
fair; light frost
northwest, heavy
frost south and
cast portions to
il i g h t; westerly
winds.
SEVERED
I WON F 7 ft. 'A
