Society Doings
See Miss Will's Newsy and Ac
curate Reports in The T.-D.
fUdjmonii fmeS-Bbpatdf
What's the Answer?
Get It From limes-Dispatch
Information Bureau
66th YEAR
VWI.ll.MK
Nl* Mil Kit :*I7
Karl A. Graves, Self-Styled
International Spy, Ar
rested for Blackmail.
HE IS HELD IN $2,000 BAIL
FOR HEARING ON WEDNESDAY
Threatens to Publish Letters
Showing "Failings" of Coun
tess von Bernstorff.
AliSO HAS OTHKIt IXXl.M K.N'TS
Dramatic <(inclusion to Negotiation*
in Progress for a Week With
Prince Hat/.fcMt.
I My Af?M'#r;m#-<j
\\ A si 11 N? JTm.N", .November 11.? Karl
Airiiganrd virav. s. self-styled ir?-r
national spy ari'l magazine writer, whs
arreaf.-.l here to-day by agents of the
nepartment ?.f Jusii. .- and barged
?with attempting t<> extort J3.0??i) from
Countess von Hern.-.torff, wife of the
' J'.rrr.an a rnbas: a-lor, l>y threatening to
publish 1? Iters "a 11 ?? t????I in ? otttain iii.m
I?t hliow.n;' li.-: in.'li :nith':- ;.:nl fail
IitKS."
? Mlli. la . - i?f tlii* < in 1?;?> sy also allege
"hat Crav.-.- i.ri'l I,is possession what
appar..- ntly were ? onihlr-nt lal coded
? it ploma 11 - <1!.-p;, r. h-s fr..tii the ?;-r
'?????' ko \ r11in'? i*i to Count v..a Hern
tor! '
pi ;soi:.-t toll the Ki-.I-!-.-! agents
uli'nini-'l all th?? do. ument - from
l''T-oiif Who n-iuggled them pan the
'Irillsh oi'tifiors on the steamship Omar
il Tin1 warrant upon whi. h he was
arraigned ?o-iiiu'ht, ml ?.?-!<{ .... Ji'.tppJ
? ?ail i.-r a further hearing on Wednes
day. < harm's him also ?villi bringing
Into t he I'iytriet of Colvimhia letters
stolen in Hobo ken, X. J. where the
?)f.'ar II. do kr .
In a statement after his arraignment,
at which he entered a pi-1 of not
guilty, Crave* ai.sert.-l th:.l i:e h:i<l
l.o Int. r-.tlon of blackmailing the coun
ters, that he obJ.---teil to The use ot tiie
UOKI blackmail. an.I that the papers
hi* hail In his possesion were "purely
diplomatic" !n ??},;! r :,, t?-j
Much Inter, st \* , s aroused a uf
tidal quarter a? t!,. [-.direct .-xrosun
of the manner In which persons an<l
oMicl.ils in Cermany a rent I v are
avoldincr th. Bntlsh censorship-in com
municating with th.- Ci-rman embassy
here.
mi-: < \i.i.i-:i> iimisi:m'
"Till-: M AST Kit SIM"
Trie arrest <<f Craves furnishes a
ilrarnatlc . inclusion to negotiations
which had been in propreas for a week
'?'tween hin ini'l Prince Haufel.lt.
< ounselor of tlie Cerman embassy,
(?raves Is Mild to have come to Wash
ington last -veek and called at the
embassy. IK- was known there as the
man who i ?.* 1 published widely what
? I." alleged to 1<.- important secrets uf
l,';" ' term;.n li ar villi.-,. u?d the Hohei.
??ll> rns. He uls.. wk? known as a iuhji
? previously bad described himself
a member ..f the vJerman secret
s? rvi e. and late: as an emplovee In
foreign tieM f .- ti?; |:r)UHh Kur,.!f..,
'Vlloe. "The .Master Spy" he called
himself.
"tjlclals alleir.. that upon .liter. ng
the Oilice of I 'rill.-..- Hatzfeldt he made
it known that h. had in his posses
sion the papers which to-day brought
about his arrest One ietter whi.-h he
exhibited was to the Countess von
K.-mstortr from her cousin, an ofllcer
in !h.- Ccrtnaii army. H.- said, ac
? -<mlliigr to statements by Federal of
licors to-night, that he had other M
icrs that would prove "embarrassing"
tor the countess, should they be pub
lisiiied.
The oilicial dispatches were said to
be useless to him for the reason that
he could not dt-< iph-r them. He is al
h'.'ed to have asked for *3.000 in cash
/ delivered the papers. lie also
?> leg.-d to have asked Wince lint*.
' t to Prepare and sign a statein.-nt
that the money had been paid for ser
vices rendered th- Herman govern
nient.
Kmbassy oibcials said (Irav.-H threat
ened u, lurn ov,.r HO|||e <|f tho <Jo ^
?"7?!'a l" Ullito oilidals if the
?u,000 was not forth.-omiriK.
HA'i"/.i.'i-;i,ir|. iMttiAiisios
'!<> < OVSIIiKH M VTTKIt
The letters showed no postmark, and
? ii. ii s "f the embassy were convinced
at they had, been obfalned in some
manner from ? conlidential messenger
whose Identity was still undisclosed
"rice H.itzfeldt promised to take the
matter under consideration.
I'rince Hat/.feldt communicated with
Hie district attorney's otli.-e imme
diately Graves left his oilice. Another'
"lei-ting. was arranged, and yesterday
??raves telegraphed from .New Vo,k
that he would arrive later in the day.
rlnce Ilnt/feldt put $;!,ftO(i into an
envelope, and with two agents of the
?epartment of Justice awaited (haves
?t his home, but Craves failed to an
pour.
Tills morning Craves called the era
:.";Ty- ''n" requested at. appointment
Ith I'rince Hat/feldt. A few hours
i *r ho arrived, aiul conversed with
the counselor at his home for half an
hour. One Federal agent was hiding
behind a door in the room. Another
was in the street outside. A police de
tective was nearby.
H Is said that Prince Hatzfeldt
showed Graves the $3,000, and that the
latter said he would get from his hotel
some of the documents. Leaving the
house he walked into the arms of a
f ederal agent, and was taken to the
I'epartment of Justice, where he was
examined. At the end of the examliia
(Contlnued on Second l'age.)
"IIKOIM!, j'JJ AXTA. ??MI^|Im;
TVA?.06 trUlna Uully v,a SOUTHEUN HAIL
Daughters Object
to "Civil War"
Inaugurate Campaign for Sub
stitution of Phrase "War
Between the Stales"
f My I'rosM. I
DALLAS, TKX.. November 11.?After |
selecting (JhultliliuuKil, '!'?-????.. as the j
1 :? 17 con volition city. the Culled Daueh- I
ters of the ''onfed?*ra ? y, at the linn I
?-oksIoii of its t wenty-second annual J
meeting her'; to-night, adopted reso!u- J
tions declaring against histories and I
other textbooks usi'il in Southern |
schools ."which <i > not portray true lit?? i
tory of the .South." ami Inaugurated a '
campaign for the adoption of the
phrase "War Between the Slates" as
a subst itute for "Civil War."
Other resolutions adopted?included
an indorsement of the congressional
project f<>r th*. placing of a Clara Itar
ton window in the Red Crosa .Memorial j
liuildiiig at Washington. and funds
were provided for installing a memorial
window in *li?- building hy tlie organi
zation. Provision also was made to
eliminate the delimit in tin- Arlington
m<>ntimeut fuii<i.
The final Session to-night continued
until a iate hour.
Chattanooga was ? iiosen for the 1MT
convention, after the i-latins of St.
Louis;, Ashevilie and Hirminghnm had
xi < or.sidered. The Tenne.ssee dele
gation parodied a popular song-invlta
tion "To Come to Tenncssi"," as their
campaign battle cry. and won.
Scores of reports dealing with the
educational. historical, philanthropicai
and memorial work of the organization
were disposed of to-d..y and to-night.
WONDERING ABOUT CABINET
Political Wiiolilnuton 'I lilnk* President
>1 n j Train Nr\t llrmu
erutle Candida tr.
WASHINGTON. November .1 Po
litical Washington is wondering if
President Wilson will select :ar his
Cabinet-,i man of potential presidential
possibilities. There is a belief that
in- will nam*? tlie nest candidate of
t!i- Democratic party for President, and
i speculation lias begun as !o wh"th?-r
j hi* selection will be in training in the
Cabinet.
j William .1 Ury::u's friends here are
j certain he and I'reyj Jit.I Wilson will
iconMi. i<- on trie best uf 'ern.-. They as
sert that Uryan v. as largely instru
mental in securing the s;:cc.->- <?:" the
President in the W-?st. wi,?*re ifryaii
, did most of iiis campaign work. Uryan
, is thought to have -till ;? considerable
( following in Congress, and much In
terest iii manifested here in what the
' r<-latioiiM between the former Secretary
J of State and President Wilson will be.
EXPORT OF WAR SUPPLIES
[ For Vine Month*, Kiidltii; Septrmhrr
? nj, Amount i? *0117,
070,000.
f??;- A.-.-I. l J'resR. J
NEW YoltK, November 11.?Exports
of war supplies for the nine months
ending September amounted to
P7O.000, or more than 25 per cent of
the country's total export trade, ac
cording to figures published here to
ihay by the Journal of Commerce.
The value of explosives sent to bel
ligerents was more than Sr.OO.Ofo'.OvO and
| automobiles, horses and mules, tnetal
i working machinery and wire ranked
inext in that order.
According to a table published cov
j ering war supply exports since the
[ movement began in January, 1M.1, the'.r
; value for tlie twenty-one months was
! ?l.<I7,S4r?,GOJ, or about "2 per cent of
I tlie country's total exports. .More war
I supplies were sent abroad during the
j first nine months of this year than
i throughout m:..
i AIRMAN ADDS TO HIS RECORD
l.irtifeniint Oujnrmrr, DarliiK l-'rriieli
Arrimnul, llrlnKn Down Total of
-1 MucIiIiicn So Knr.
(Hj' Associated Press. I
PA HIS. November 11.?Second Lieu
tenant Georges tluyncmer. the famous
French aeronaut. who recently
brought down three German airplanes
in two minutes and thirty seconds by
a stop watch, is credited by the War
OHice in to-day's otlicial statement with
having destroyed two Gorman machines
yesterday.
This increases to twenty-one the
number brought down by this aviator.
Three other Germait airplanes were
destroyed yesterday by tho French in
fighting on the western front.
FRANKLIN GOES TO ENGLAND
Prenldent of .llerciiiitilc Marine llc
lleted to Have lleen Siimiiioneil
liy Morumi.
NEW YORK. November 11.?I'. A. S.
Franklin, president of the International
Mercantile Marine Company, sailed for
England to-day on the'American liner
St. Louie. Mr. Franklin said his stay
in England would be short, ami that
tlie object of his visit was routine
steamship business.
In shipping circle^ tlie view was
expressed that Mr. Franklin had been
summoned abroad by J. I*. Morgan, to
whom ho owes his promotion to the
presidency of the company.
MUNITION PLANT CUTS PAY
Manj- .Men ((alt When. Xntifieil That
Tlielr WageM Are to He llr
dueed hy Half.
ROCHESTER, X. V.. November 11.?
Men employed in the Genera! Railway
Signal Company's giant, making war
munitions, were surprised to receive
notice yesterday that their pay would
be cut in half at once. Many %f them
quit. The company has big contracts
for making sheila for the allies.
Notice was posted In the shops some
time ago that tho pay would lie cut
on the lirst of tlie year; so yesterday's
announcement canto very uncxpcctodly.
I
Will Wait Until Monday to Serve
Writs on Operatives in South
Carolina Town.
NO INDICATION OF CLASHES
Managers of Mills Declare They
Will Be Guided by Advice of
Artillery Officer.
I 1 iy l'r?*hr. I
ANI >KltS< >N, S. C.. NVivemli'-r 11.?
After th" arrival here to-day of some
4.0(10 South C'nrolina (''cist ijuard ar
t illcryiri'-n, it was decided to wait until
Monday to Serv" writ . of eject:n<!Ht on
striking mill operatives residing on
coin pa nj? ri" t y.
The State soldi. , s were sent here by
I Governor Manning, after Shtrilf Ash
i ley declined to . j?-. t the tenants until
| "they got houses to move itit"."
It Willi said to-day's postponement
' was due to the desire <>r Major William
!?*. Roberts M" Oreen ville, t'liiiniiiiid
jinn tli- troops, to at-quaint himself with
local conditions, and because mill otli
rlitls hesitated to drive the tenants out
In a rain.
j h was stated by those interested
| that jt'-r rent of the workers in
i one of th" mill villages, all "f which
' ar" near lier". hud expressed thoir
. willingness to return to work under
conditions prevailing before the mills
j closed down. Managers of the mills
i stated to-night that they would be
, guided entirely by Major Robertson's
| opinion in de< hlirig whether or not to
( renew operations. Conditions wore
quiet to-day. and there was n.i indi
( cation that there would be any
j clashes l>etween soldiers and citizens,
i The mill'; which closed down are
; th<- Kqu'nox and the duck Mills,
' manufacturers of cotton ducking.
! Kjectments wre against certain
1 Ftrlkers on the Kquinox Mill property.
M'CORMICK WIRES JAMES
j l-;?iirr?i?r? Appreciation of Male I'hitlr
Mnn'* Work During the
I ninpulgn.
i {.special t?? The Times-Dlspat ii ]
DANVILLK, VA , November 11.?R.
A. James, I??nno -ratio .Stnte chairman,
: to-day received the following telegram
: from Vance t; McCormlck, national
1 DemocratIc chairman:
"While we ;?r?. celebrating ?>ur glo
j rious victory I want to take this op
; portunity to express to you my deep ap
? preciation of the great services p^r
! formed by you In this campaign. The
I result was only accomplished by the
unselfish and patriotic devotion of men
like you. who made sacrifices for the
great cause of democracy and the idesil
?of true Americanism. The gratitude of
a grateful nation is yours."
Mr. James, in replying-, sent the fol
lowing message:
j "I'ertilit me to extend to you the
I grateful acknowledgement of the Vir
i ginia Democracy for your masterful
j conduct of the national campaign, and
especially your bold and determined
stand for an honest count "
CAN RETAIN GOVERNORSHIP
llirnm \\ . .IiiIiiimoii Miij .Vol Knter Sen
lite 1'iitll Ileeeinlier, IIUT,
If He So lleNlren.
SAN I-'RANCISCO, .Vovi-mlii-v 11.?
| Hiram W. Johnson. lTnited States Sen
ator-elect from ? 'alifornia. can keep on
being > iovhrnor of California until De
cember. H<17, if he wants to. accord -
j lag to a statement by I". S. Webb, al
j tc.rney-general of the State.
The general practice is for a Son
ator-eloot to take oath of office March
j 4 of the year following his election, but
j this is not necessary, according to Mr.
Webb. lie can wait until the follow
ing December, when Congress con
ivenes. if he prefers to do so, unless a
special session <?:' Congress is called
I In the meantime.
In that event he would have to takfe
the oath of oltice before taking his
seat.,
No statement from the Governor was
available as to his intentions.
HUGHES SPENDS QUIET DAY
Will Keliiiilti in ,\f? York Over Snn
iln.v anil tio to Some Nenr-lly
licNort for Ite.tt mi Mondiiv,
NKW VOIiK. November 11.?Charles
K. Hughes spent another quiet day to
day. His only caller was William It.
Willcox. Republican national chair
man.
Later Mr. ami Mrs. Hughes motored
to Coney Island. They made no stop
at the resort, and they were not rec
ognized. After they returned to the
Hotel Astor. Mrs. Hughes went out nn
Broadway alone and took a long walk,
also unrecognized.
In the evening they attended the
performance of "Pollyanna."
They will remain in the city over
Sunday, and on Monday Will probably
go away to some near-by resort for
rest. Mr. Hughes will make no state
ments until after the oflloial count in
the doubtful States.
THE CARPATHIA AGROUND
Cimnrder Inspected to Klont (MY lit
lllgli Tide mid Continue Trip
to Liverpool.
MEW YORK, November 11.?Tint Oil
narder Carpathia went aground to
night off Owl's Head, near the entrance
to New York harbor, according to a
report received at Quarantine.
The Carpathia was outward bound
for Liverpool. It is expected she will
Moat off at high tide.
ASI1KV1M.K In the "LAND OK Tllh SKV"
Delightful m this ficusoii. Coif und out
door epurlH. Southern Hallway.
NEW YORK CROWDS
CHEER PRESIDENT
Demonstrations at Troy and Al
bany in Celebration of Out
come of Election.
I ON HIS WAY TO WASHINGTON
| Executive Not Concerned Over
Refusal of Republicans to
Concede His Victory.
I Itv I
! <?X ROARP Till-: PRKSIPKNT'S SPK
! CIAI., 'AMJANY. NovtMnlxT II.?Prcsi
j dent Wilson, returning to Washington
; for the lirst time i:: two months. to
j nil?lit witnessed .1 demonstration at
i Troy and Albany >" ' el-l.ratlon of tli?
I outcome of the 'ion. Crowds at
' both pla?os cheered him again a.nd
. again. Tin- President thanked them
i for th'jir congratulations
||-ro at Albany a procession was
i arraiiK'-'il in bis honor. Tho railroad
station was crowded, ami many per
l tons rushed forward to shake l'rv.it>
: ?le?t Wilson's hand l'ormrr Gover
nor Olynn, of Niw Y<>rk. who was
[temporary chairman of the St. Louts
j convention, v.as at the station with
: other Oemocratlc leader.?.
As President Wilsons train rolled
I into Albany torpedoes were exploded
1 011 the tracks and locomotlvc whistles
j shrieked. Hefore the President ar
' rived th?* crowd had paraded through
. the business section of the city.
President Wilson shook hands with
: many persons at Troy. "We're with
you four more years of peace and pros
, p'-rlty," shouted one man.
j "Thank yon." replied the President.
"How's Haby SayreV" asked another.
"Fine." responded President Wilson.
One inan leaped 011 the obesrvatlon
platform beside the President and led
the cheering.
The President is due to arrive in
1 Washington to-morrow night, after a
! trip down the Hudson Kiver from
1 Ithi tied iff, X. V.. to New York on the
, naval yacht Mayllower. He is to
| board a train in New York at Diil-l
P. M. to-morrow.
lie left Williamstown. Mass., where
he went to act as godfather for his
newest grandchild at 5:J." o'clock this
i afternoon.
' A crowd of students from Williums
I town College saw liltn leave.
ST A UTS 1*011 m:w viiiik
AT DAYtlttKAK TO-liAY
t My Assorthtrtd Press.]
Ill I I.XKCLil KK, X. Y., November II.?
President Wilson arrived here to-night
from Wllliamstown, Mass., and at once
boarded the naval yacht May (lower.
Which lay at anchor in tho Hudson
Klver. The President directed that the
Mayllower proceed slowly ;o Now York
at daybreak to-morrow. He expects
to land in New York to-morrow after
| noon, on his way here from Albany
I to-night, the* President was cheered a.
j several small towns. At tiermatitowii,
X. \ ., a bund played in his honor.
I ft KM \I\S Qt IK'I'l.l \\ ll'll
MKMIIKHS Oh' IMMILY
Illy AHKOriat<'<l Press.)
WlbLIAMSTOWN, MASS.. Xovember
11. ?President Wilson ignored politics
1 to-day to remain quietly with mem
bers of his family h.-rt Several hun
j dred telegrams of congratulations ar
I rived during t.ie morning.
i The President left here'shortly after
. o'clock this afternoon l>y train for
lthlneeliff, N. Y? to board the .May
| (lower. li-- will arrive in Washington
Sunday night (>y tram from New York.
President Wilson is not concerned
1 over the refusal of the Republican cam
paign managers to concede his re-elec
t tion. The chief thing worrying him
is the political complexion of the next
: House, because of its 1 (feci 011 his plans
j for legislation.
The President is understood to take
! the result as a vindication of his past
I course, and as approval of the general
? outlines of policy set forth by him
in his speeches as a candidate for re
elect ion.
After his return to Washington to
morrow lie w : 11 catch ut> ituiin I;atel.V
011 oiliclal business, ami in the near fu
ture will begin (he preparation of bis
DuCembor message to Congress.
The President took a short walk this
( morning. Me was invited to witness a
j footlir.il game this afternoon Net ween
the Massachusetts Agricultural College
; ami Williams.
Later President Wilson took an nuto
; mobile ride through the Lierksliire Hills
? with Mr. and Mrs. Pram it P.. Say re. his
Son-in-law. and his daughter.
BURNS HIS HOUSE TOO SOON
Son of fl. ?V (I, Prcxlilriit I'lirnlNhos l'*nrl
for t eleliriilloii When llr 'I'llInks
llnglieK Is Kleoteil.
WIXSTKP, COXX., Xovetnber II.?
Harold X. Willard, son of l>anlel Wil
lard, president of the Raltlmore and
Ohio Railroad, remarked on election
day that if Hughes were successful he
would give an old dwelling-house mi
his farm in Salisbury as fuel for a
celebration. I.ate Tuesday night when
the returns Indicated the election of
Hughes, jubilant Republicans went to
the Willard place, ;.ml Willard kept
his word.
The reflection from the blaze was vis
ible for miles; persons living at a dis
tance inquired by telephone where
property was burning. "Hughes is
elected, and Willnrd's burning up bis
old house In honor of the Republican
success," they were Informed.
As smoke was still rising from the
ruins and curling about the Miiiiiney
which alone marks tho scene of the
great Republican celebration, Joy
turned to sorrow when word was re
ceived that lln> election result was in
doubt, with chances favoring Wilson's
success.
CHOICE OF SPEAKER
E
Three Progressives, One Social
ist, One Independent and a Pro
hibitionist to Control.
BIG PARTIES VIRTUALLY TIED
Senate Democratic by Safe Ma
jority, but Republicans Will
Lead in House.
NK\Y Y'?RK, November li?Demo
erati'* concern to-day was chiefly In
the t/iake-up <>f the next Congress. The
'Senate will be Democratic l>y a safe
| majority, hut w itli the major parties
virtually tied in the number of seats
so far won in the lower branch, at
tention turned tn the Progress!ves. So
: cijilist.- and independents. who arc al
| most certain to wield the balance of
I?wwer in its organization. Three pro
| Hressives, one Socialist, one indepen
[ "lent, one I'rohlhitioiiist. will vote in
the election of a Speaker. am* may
cast the deciding votes in all the Im- I
portant legislative matters coming be
fore th- Si \ t y -1. it h Congress.
lndbati.ns to-night are that the He-,
publicans will control the House of ;
Representatives in the next Congress
by a bare majority of one. Chairman j
Woods, of the Republican I'onmes- J
sional Committee, claims control by j
seven. The election of a Democrat in i
.Yew .Mexico Is conceded. It will re- j
quire the returns from the soldier vote !
to determine the remits in the Thir- j
tleth and Thirty-second Pennsylvania!
Districts. < >n the face of the returns j
(i Republican is elected in the Thir- ,
tleth by the narrow margin of twenty, i
and defeated In the Thirty-second by'
nineteen votes.
kliminatiug both these Pennsylvania i
districts and giving the Repul?licans six j
In California and ten in New Jersey, the ,
Republicans have a total of 2P'? votes.!
Giving 111?? Detnociats the one mem
ber from Delaware. although this is
disputed by Republicans bailers, and j
five sure votes in Pennsylvania, the
Democrats have a total of 21!.
HKIM llL.lt A \S CI.A1M
( ON IIIOI. ok iiin <sk
The election of Rritt in the Tenth
| North Carolina District by thirteen
votes is reported, and this district has
been accepted as Republican In the
unofficial tabulation of oflicers of the
House. Republican lenders have been
assured that .Martin, the Progressive
protectionist in Louisiana, will vote i
with them on organization. This gives
the Republicans a total or 21S votes,
Just sufficient to control, the total mem
bership being i
The Independent Republican from the '
Ninth Massachusetts and the Progres
sive Republican from the Tenth Min
nesota District. Republican leaders say
will support a Republican organiza
tion of the House.
If this be true, then the Republicans,
without counting the Thirtieth Penn
sylvania District, would have a total
of 220 votes.
^Granting one of iiie doubtful I'eun
sylvnnia districts?the Thirty-second??
to the Democrats, and the known fact
that the New York Socialist and the
California Prohlhtionist will 'support
the Democratic organization, the Demo
crats would have a total of 211. If
they get both the Pennsylvania doubt
ful districts, their vote would be 21."..
which still would be three less than
I surli.-i-in to organize an.I obtain con
| trol of the House.
| ii tKK-t i' or m:i.i:?;A'MoN
KltO.M Ctl.iniliMA
Press dispatcher have given the
Democrats six members from Call
| fornin. Telegram* re eived by tlu- Re
i publican Congressional Committee from
| California to-day reiterate that the
Republicans have elected six members,
they being Curry, Kahn. Nolan. Klston,
I Hayes and Osborne. Tne Democrats
have elected l.ea, Raker. Church and
Ketner. while in the Ninth District.
! Randall, who classifies himself as a
I Prohibitionist. l, ir who affiliates with
I the Democrats, has been re-e; -cted.
I lie press associat'.uiis also uive the
I Democrats three members In New Jer
sey. This would include S.*ullv. in tin
l'hird District, but Carson has be
j elected there, although b> a small plu
rality. Mr. Scully, it was reported here
! this afternoon, has already vongiatu
lated his opponent.
[ Apparently the only district in which
| there can be any doubt of the Rcpub
| lleans receiving the certification of
| election, otii.v than those mentioned,
| I* the Tenth North Carolina. Should
the Democrat be given the certificate.
[Chairman Woods, of the Republican |
|couimlttcc, says i will not affect the1
result.
The majority of Progressive Demo-I
I erat Martin in Louisiana Is apprOxi- j
j maiely 100. The returns have been :
| forwarded to the Secretary of State,
j who is >i Progressive Democrat, and the
result there, it Is claimed, cannot be
I tampered with, if such were the desire
j of Martin's opponents.
Republican leaders are confident now
I they will control the next House. It j
lis only a question of just what their'
j majority will be according to the Re-j
I puhllca n viewpoint.
I SKI,|{(.'TIO\ or Sl>l-:\KKII TO
HI-: DKTIHIMI.MH) IN I Al CT*
The selection of a Speaker will be
determined in caucus. If opposition is
found to James It. Mann, ,-t compromise
candidate will be selected. It is said
that opposition to Mann Is more likely
to come from old line Republicans
than from Progressives. Concessions,
of course, m ist be made to the small i
group of Independent;!. Republicans, !
who assume that they will control the
House, said to-day they would follow
the Democratic custom of permitting
the Ways and Means Committee to
name the committees, or select a spe
cial committee for that purpose that
would recognize the different groups
In the membership.
American Steamer
Submarine Victim
When Last Heard From, Was
Sending Out Wireless
Calls for Help.
Illy As.;o< luted I'res*. I
I .ON DON, N'livcnihftr II.?The Ameri
can steamer Columbian In believed to
11?; been sunk, according to an an
nouncement Iiy Dloyds.
It vas reported here on Wednesday
that the Columbian was sending out
wireless calls for lie!;., saying she was
being shelled l?y a submarine. The
falls wore picked tip at that time by
Admiralty stations.
Nothing further, however, hail been
heard of the Columbian until to-night's
statement from Lloyd's shipping
agency. The crew of the American
steam <hlp Columbian has arrived nt
Corun.ia, Spain, in life boats, says a
Renter dispatch from .MadrKI.
Tit IIK I.All) IIKI'tlKi;
I'linsiDKvr this wi:kiv
(Hv Associated |
\V ASI11 N< IT( ?N, November* 11.?The
case of the American steamer Colum
bian. report <mI sunk off th- Danish
const, will be laid before P resident
Wilson l>v the State Department early
next w"??!(. as part <>f a general sum
mary of recent submarine operations,
construed by some officials as fore
casting a radical change in the German
policy.
Information regarding the Colum
bian was so incomplete tonight that
no official would predict what purl
(he case might play in final deter
mination of this government's course.
Date in the day the American consul
at Ualhoa forwarded the report that
the vessel ha>l been sunk thirty miles
oft Cape Ortegal. ami her crew saved,
but no details were given.
Points to be cleared up before a
decision is reached involve the ques
tions of whether the vessel was fired
on without warning, whether she car
ried contraband, and whether she at
tempted to escape.
All available facts regarding the Co
lumbian will be collected as soon as
possible. Information on the Marina.
Arabia and I.anao cases also is still
incomplete, but every report received
so far regarding these vessels will be
placed before the President as soon
as he returns to his desk at the White
House.
HEAVY FINES INFLICTED
Sulft ?V < o. nnil \ ii in tier of Itallmailw
Convicted of Violating Intor
Ntnte Commerce Act.
f fiy Associated frt'n.s. |
CHICAGO, November II.? Fines to
taling more than $171,000 were as
sessed by Federal Judge Land is to-day
against Swift & Co., packers, and ?
number of railroads convicted of vio
lating the interstate commerce act. In
most of the cases the charges were re
bating or in shipping less than car
load shipments at carload rates.
Swift & Co. were fined SrtO.l'OO, the
Pennsylvania Railroad. $?0,000; tlio Kl
gln, Joliet and Kastorn Railroad,
000, and the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati,
Chicago and St. Douis Railroad. |2.\000
in one case and $.">0,000 in another.
tn addition, tines ranging from 5100
to Jl.otio were assessed against the
Chicago and Northwestern Railroad,
the Indiana Harbor Pelt Railroad and
the Chicago, Milwaukee ami St. Paul.
The? charges against Swift & Co.
was that it shipped ie.>.s than carload
shipments to Michigan points at the
carload rates.
The Pennsylvania fine and the $20,000
tine against the Pittsburgh. Cincin
nati ami St. Douis were for rebating
to the \V. ii. Merritt Co., a Chicago
Doard of Trade firm, while the ?r.0,000,
was for rebating to It. A. Kckliardt,
head of the Eckhardt Milling Com
pany.
ANXIOUS TO COME HOME
t IrKinln State >f 11! < in in ru mi lloriler
Want In !!?? Itotlevcd of
Huly.
I Special t" 'Pile Times-I ii.S|iatcll. |
W ASIIINiITtl.V November 11.- The
Virginia Slate militiamen now on the
border want to come home. Senator
Sw.mson to-day held a conference wit>?
Secretary of War I taker, and urge.I
him to order the Virginia boys home.
If there is any possible chance of
sparing them. The Virginians were i
among the first to go to the fn>nt.
They fee! they have served their share
of the time.
Senator Swanson. after the confer
ence. declared that there Is a good
chance for the militiamen, who went
to the border shortly after the mobil
'? red home and mus
tered ?ut within a short time. He
said if the War Department olllcials
i ail arrange for their departure with
out impairing the patrol ,.f the boun
dr.v, they win s..,.n return home.
EMERSON FOR CABINET
Maryland DeiiioeraIn Start M?\ einrii t
lliivt* ll:i I I j moron n V|i.
pointed,
lJADTI.MiiltB, Ml).. November 11.?
Ma rylnud Democrats have started a
movement lo haw Captain Isaac K.
Kinerson. father of .Mrs. Alfred <1.
Vamierbllt. appointed Secretary of the
Navy in the tu xt Wilson Cabinet. Cap
tain Kinerson. they believe, possesses
many ipiaiitications for the Job. He
was one of the organizers and the first
commander of the Maryland Reserves,
and has always been a close student of
naval affairs, besides being an ardent
yacht man. He is wi addition an ad
mitted efficient business organizer, they
say. having built up bis own big for- J
tune by his business methods. He was !
born In North Carolina.
i,^V,!^"IiKlt TOl;ItlST KAItKN NOl'TII
DelinliMni r''V"1' rar,'s to tourist peint->
SuUTHlSflN ?:i,il.\vrAV.nOW 0,1 XU
LATESTRETURNS
ADD 10 ADVANTAGE
HELD BY PRESIDENT
Now Seems Assured of 272,
and Probably 276
Votes.
NEW HAMPSHIRE DROPS
INTO DEMOCRATIC COLUMN
Few Additional Figures From
California and New Mexico
Do Not Reduce Lead.
O. I*. AIIEAI) IN MINNESOTA
I'liml llesult in That State Will Be
Determined by Two Regi
ments on Border.
Wilson Holds Lead
in Latest Figures
I.alent dispatches wive the follow
ing rrnultftt
( ill I Torn In?With rlclitrf-n pre
cinct* nilMwInur out of ft.870, the flK
tire* Ntnnili 1 Incite*. 4?2,S2S| Wilson.
Mitl.KHi. W It.*on plurality mo fnr lit
.?i.istk.
Mlunesntn?In :i,02t precinct* of
a.tMS. W llititti Kcti llnKlir*,
llnglicn'N plurality, 21S.
IInmp*lilro? t'ortItied rrtnmti
ultli till precinct* complete, give
Wll*nn 11 plurnllty of nUty-three.
Xew Mf\lc??In 111)0 prn'lnctd,
President WINnn lend* hy 1MH4
vote*. Tlir nil.**lng tm-nty-nlne
precincts ure small nnd ivldely
wiiltorcil.
Illy Assncliitf ?! Pros*. 1
NKW YORK. November 11.?To-day's
rot urns from Tuesday's election nerved
only to increase the advantage of Pres
ident \\ ilson, who now seems assured
of 272, and probably 27G, votes in the
electoral college. New Hampshire,
which had wavered from Wilson to
Hitches l'or throe days, late to-day
dropped into the Democratic column
l>y a plurality of sixty-three votes.
| This was on complete certified returns
i in the hands of the Secretary of State.
Tlu- few additional returns from Cal
? ifornia and New Mexico did not reduce
I Mr. Wilson's lead in those States. In
addition, the Democrats found com
fort in a dispatch from l.os Angeles,
which said that a difference of only
654 votes was found between the high
est and lowest of the Democratic
electors in the semiofficial count con
ducted by the registrar of votes. Ulec
I tion oflicials expressed the opinion that
j these figures made it unlikely that the
I ofllcitil count would split California's
|electoral vote.
VllTK OI-' til. AIIDSMI'A
l\? ItKASKS III <;|||0S,.S LI" AH
Corrected returns from Ramsay I
[ f oiinty, Minnesota, to-day reduced
| Charles K. Hughes's plurality in the
j State tn 2:{?.?. but to-night the first ro
' urns trom the national guardsmen on
the border ran it up to 2?58. Political
, experts said this made it very certain
that th?' State would be swung by the
two remaining regiments on the border.
About 2,000 votes were cast by the,
i soldiers, but all of them will not be
i counted until next week.
\\ith the presidential contest. set
Hod to the satisfaction of the Demo
cratic managers. Chairman McCormiek,
j of the national committee, left for his
1 home in Ilarrishurg to-day. hut Chair
j man \\ illcox, of the Republican com
mittee steadfastly refused to cdncedo
that Mr. Hughes had been defeuted.
lie pointed r?. the 1912 contest in Cal
ifornia. where the pendulum swung
back and forth for weeks, to justify
his position. Nothing would be con
ceded or claimed, he said, until the final
count was in.
uii,i.tox tki,i,s unv
Hi: IIKKt'SK.S TO C'OXCEDH
A statement showing the fluctuation
Of the lead between President Wilson
and! Colonel Roosevelt in California in
11M_ iiotn day to day for a month after
the election, and how the State finally
went in lavor of Roosevelt after Wil
son was tirst credited with winning
was issued here to-day by Chairman
W illiain I!. Willcox, of the Republican
National Committee to "show precisely'
why the Kepubllcan National Commit
t'e c.iiiuot, at this time, concede the
election ut Mr. Wilson and must await."
Hi. ofllcia I count in this and othor
States."
"The record shows." Mr. Willcox's
statement read, "that Mr. Wilson was
tii'M III the lead: that subsequently
this lead was taken by Colonel itoose
volt. tii;ll Unally the delegation to
the electoral college from California
"as divided, two electors being for
Mr Wils.ui and cloven for Colonel
Klmsevelt."
Mr. U illcox had a conference with
'.'harles K. Hughes to-day, during
which the situation was discussed. No
?iniiotuicomeiit came ftom Mr. Hughes
m regard to his own plans. Mr. Wlll
< ox said a ft erward that h.* and, he
thought. Mr Hughes, would remain
here until tho first of next week. He
*ald he did not expect official counts
from the doubtful States to begin com
ing in before then, and that it would
be inoio than a week at least before'
they were complete. He would not
venture a guess on how much longer
than that it might take.
iti:i.ir.\ i-.i> mtti.i: ciia.vck
VOIt Sl'LIT IN VOTE"
f My Associated !*re*n.J
SAN Kit ANt ?isc?.?, November 11.?
Analysis by Democratic leader.* to-day
of the popular presidential vote In San
!? taneisco failed to give much encour
agement to the claim of the Repub;i
can State Central Committee that o.
split electoral voty would result.
