"t Mir 1 V Jj "V
' THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day; to-morrow increasing
cloudiness; fresh east winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 54; lowest 4
Detailed weatlior, mall and mart no reports on pace 11.'
V f
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
5$tm.
VUL. JUVVV-L V . 1NU. iij. Tf
KARL A. GRAVES
TAKEN; ACCUSED
BY BERNSTORFF
Self-styled "Spy"' Chained
With Al tempted $3,000
Extortion.
1
A-IIHASSADOTTS WIFE
' AS HIS ALLEGED PREY
Accused in Washington of
Threatening to Publish.
Private Letters.
HELD IX .$2,000 RAIL;
HKAItlXG WEDNESDAY
Arrest Brings Confiscation
of Papers Smuggled to
German Embassy. ,
WAfm.vonro.v, Nov. 11. Kurt Arm
ward Grnvcs, M-tr-Htyloil International
spy and magazine writer, was nrrcsted
hero to-day b-nuonts of the- Depart
ment of Justice nnd rhnj-Red with nt
tempting to extort 13,000 from
Countess von ncrnxtnrfT, wife nf the
German Ambassador, by threatening
to publish letters "alleged to contain
matter showing Iter Infirmities audi
falling
Officials of the embassy also allege
that Grave hud in Ills possession !
Whst nm.nrnn.1... .,......
...... ,, ..vv.'tlttitl-llll.ll, tieil .
diplomatic Uesimtches from the Ger
man Government to Count vop
Kernstorff. The prUotier told the Fed
eral agenta he obtained nil the docu
ments from persons who smuggled
them past tho British censors on the
steamship Ocnr II. Tho warrant upon
which he was nrrnluged to-night nnd
held on 12,000 ball for n further hear
ing Wednesday charges him nlso with
hrlnglnB Into the 'District of Columbia
'etters hlnlen In Ilnboken. N. .1.. where
the Oscar II. ilookd.
flenlra ninckmnlllnit Intention.
Oraves, In a Hatement after his ar-
rslKnment at w hich he entei.d a plea of j
not guilty, asserted that ho had no In-
.ntlon .-f blackmailing, nnd that the
the Gtniian Kinhassv beu-
'Pie arnst of Graves furnished u dra
' onclusion to negotiations which
I len in progress for a week between
i and I'nnce llatzfeldt, Counsellor of
il r nan Fmbassy, Graves Is said
.iv e .mne to Washington last week
J 'd Jlbd at the embassy.
He was known there ns the man who
t.n p olislied widely what he alleged i
not taut secrets of tho German .
v r (.nn-, .it,.l the Holteiizollerns. He1
knowa in. a man Who prevl
I
I w I
I I li.f fl I Ivlttvunir ' -,. i
i us an impioeo In roielgn He ds of
Iirlli.ii I'oielun Office "The mas-
t- H u ca l ed hlm'elf
'
letter from Von H.-rnslortr's om. .
,
(f.l. ,1 allege,! that upon entering
'nu of'i -e of Prince, llatzfe hit. Graves
.nc n Known liiai ne nan m ins pos-
' s.eJh the nailers w lie h to.duv hrmnrht
. ' , - --' --"r..--
r., lrr,"I. " ! Ie"er WMen he
r'"S Co,",,e.,i!, von
ert, iriT from lur sou, an officer In I
G-tioati atmy He said, accortllng I
- H'l v: rj ( in I- ill '1 111 1 tl In
"tild not decipher tlii-ui. He Is alleged
j I --ve i,i d for J3,ono In cash If he de-
ered bo papers, He also Is alleged to i
Ine a ;.ed Prhice llatzfeldt to prepare.
J iK"i a statement that tho money had i
ecu pa d for set vires rendered the Ger j
man Government, I
l.inhnssy otflclals said Oi'aves threat-.
e .eq t', turn over some of the documents 1
White House officials If the 13.000 was
i forthcoming,
The le'ters showed no postmark nnd
i-ffl iais of ihn embassy were convinced
"ut t'icy hud been obtained lu some
ti nnner from u confidential messenger,
wlK.se identity Htlll Is undisclosed.
Put Time t.tiull nn Kxiioaure.
I'llnz. I), tzftldt promised to take
V nw ti iinib r coiulder.it Ion. Fed
ii oiHcijlR declare Graves gave Prince
Mitifeldt a ceitaln time within which
. wss to eoniph with his conditions.
I'ro -e llatzfeldt oomtnunicated with
he ro "bt Attorney's otllco here as
a Graves left his otllce. Another
' a g whs arranged, and yesterday
'' i telegraphed from New York that
lis would present himself Inter In the
' I'tinie llatzfeldt put $3,000 into
i envelope, mid with two agents of the
''partment of Justice went to his home
'''is to await Graves. He failed to
make his appearance, however, s
This morning Oraves called up the
' ntiatsy and requested nn appointment
lth Prince llatzfeldt at his home. A
few hours later ho arrived there nnd
t'liiveiseii with the Counsellor for half
an hour. Ono Federal agent waa hiding
'"hind a door In the room. Another
as In the street outside. A police de
tective was near by,
bowed Craves f.i.OOO Cash.
U Is said that Irlnce Hatxfeldt
rii'jwrd Oraves the $3,000 nnd that the
letter said he would go to his hotel and
l'"t some of the documenti he did not
"tvn with him. Leaving the house he
walked Into the arma of a Federal
"jtent nnd waa taken to the Department
Justice, -where for hour he wa
amtnsd by A. Uruoe Bltlaakl, In charge
1'U.ers In. bad In his p..sesslon wcie . 'iivht tn suffer the extreme nen. I for. Capt. Hve) of the First branch Ignored and affronted. My own contest Tor tb Indecency of nils and tho Loe
"puiely diplomatic" In character. r "V h she said she ' detective btiresti arrived with twelve de- was ended with the primary of Annuel Angeles Time. In then present public.
Much Interest was aroused lu oindul VT, Velf ,lefenc tecllves, and with those who bad already 2! Notwithstanding m iicee wa- Hons designed to cuttlefish the situation
'luarteia at the itidlioct exposure of the 1 11 '"J" r"...,'!" Pn. f'nr ui,ert II I been on guaid and tlie half dozen unl- '. as.-ured after the prlinnv 1 .-amialgnd so that their responsibility ma be over-
i net in which persona anil officials tn M " ., ", vit.r n ltrsndlev her i formed men theie were nearly twenty. California for Hughes, doing m utmost looktd or forgotten, t
.riiian- apparently are avoiding the -2 J u. .il rUwmt trim Lr flv policemen In the building. , to undo the Injury Indicted upon Hughes "If C.illfornU has been the deciding'
.-li .-.nsorshlp In ronimunlcatlng pl'u "J ' ? ."11 T....' Vri '.. i.i.l Iievev ordeu-d all except renoiters and I by Crcs-ker. Kee.llnir and url- of the factor In this election William II. i
' li-' I th .1 1,.. I.,, I !.-. ........
,.!! ... ' "V more than I.l.oon wern nssessea oy KU ty ()f the eser degree.
., , ' ; ", r" Ml ' l." " y- : I . ... .V' has been locked up. The first
... nun iur inu i i-asou max no her nr rntirnnos c-onviciea or vioiaiioff ine. i
c,vff 7!ifiOFRANO'S JDRY IN
Huwson Undcrhill, IJrokcr, to
Howard Philip Millor,
Page in 1897.
I'hlllp Miller, a New Kngland farmer
hoy, In 1897 became a page on the floor
of tho New York Htoek Kxchange.
Miller In Htlll an attendant there, hut
that will not be true inurh longer, for
Hawsoti Cnderhlll, senior member of
the brokerage Ann of Underbill A (III
mor, who ban seen the boy grow to
manhood, 1m about to reward lilni with
n membership on tho exchange In recog
nition not only of tho length and char
acter of hie service but more espe
cially of his knowledge of the broker
age business.
expressed In dollars the gift has a
value of $15,000. In addition to the value
of what wilt bo Miller' Khar of the
business whlclt. It Is said, will be pre
sented to him along with the exchange
membership. Word of the good luck
that had befallen Miller got about the
Street yesterday Just before the closing
of the exchnnge. Mr. Underbill had
left the office for the day and his part
ner didn't feel at liberty to discuss the
matter, but tho story whs confirmed
elsewhere.
Miller, who lives In Mctuchun, N. J.,
went to work In Wall Street as an of
fice boy In the offices of Knhn At I'oper
111 1X9S. He afterward became a pagn
on the exchange and was promoted
eight years ago to n sergeant. He won
the friendship of Mr. t'nderhlll, who
now has selected him ns tho firm's floor
member.
MRS. BEUTIHGER IS
HYSTERICAL IN JAIL
Charges Freeholder Denounced
Her When Hoard Inspected
the Institution.
.. . '.. .. ...i,!
.iwMk, .,. ,, ii uu.k.
lam C. Martin and Jacob I.. Newman. ,
I'rosecutor. are invesiigaiinL' me hit) i
that Krnest K. Rvman. Din-dor of tin-
,... t.l M.-. M.,e.
li.iitl.l "ii I'l mi,.,r, r, urn. .-y -
guret C. Ileutlnger he would have run-
vlcted her of tho murder of her husband
had he been on the Jury. The allegation
further Is that Mr. Flyman ioke. so
harshly to her that she became hysteri
cal In her cell and required medical at
tention. Tho Incident incurred wlien the
Freeholders made an olllclal Inspection
of the Jail.
"I did spenk to her. I said that If I
had been on the Jury ' never would have
voted to acquit her." Mr. Kyman said
to-day when the mfttfer was brought to
his attet.tlou. He would add nothing to
this.
Mr. Hvnian went tn the Jail the day
ufle? hln reelection us a
ireenoiner m
I company with other members of the
ar"' "., ,, . tn Th
c-panled 1 him hen he went to the
'" Kr" VTC! th a'hl n ldreZed
L,,'. 'H. " "'S' " ..".I
iifi ,i, i,,.",.",1- "."" .... ... ......
,' , ,u .... i,.i.i
..... i'V V- .i... iiV...,ie' -....I , i,., 1
Judae In fear thnt It would result In 1
w.,,hi. ti, ..l.i'alnlno- n itirv fur the sec. !
nnd I trie It was kent ntilet. The IToe !
cutor admitted to-day that he knew of I
It. hut refused to say what action would
be taken. He did isot deny the story aa
told to him.
Mr. Heutlngera retrial is to uegin
N"em1'0, 20' , ,
A Petition signed by a numbei of
""omen was presented to Mr. Newman
nl.l.i.. I.ltii tint rv otllinan n nv '
U'lini iprlliK iiiiii ii"v i" sfj-i""- j ,
""
pet t on wns given to the Prosecutor by
IJIIzabeth C. Sullivan aral Lnetetla H. C.
Cordon Smith. Mr. Newman advised 1
ih., tht he would have to do his duty
,..i nntir nnv such motion
" QPPQe a" mouon.
"
tmarfe wn DTDITV-
)1 liVW xi o io.
- I
-
Swift Co. AaaeMtit OO.OOO nnd
. I
' '
1 II II Alii' e W t n
Intcistnto commerce act. Most of the
charges were rebating or In shipping less
than carload shipments at carload rates.
Swift Co. were fined IfiO.OOO. the
Pennsylvania Railroad j:0,000, tho Klgln,
Jollet and Kastem Itallroad $20,000 and
the Pittsburg, Cincinnati, Chicago nnd
St, liuls Hallroad $20,000 In one case
and $50,000 In anotrer,
In addition fines innglng from $100 to
$1,000 were assessed against three rail
roads for failure to comply with the
law against permitting live stock to re
main in freight cars more than twenty
eight hours at a stretch without atten
tion. The flneH of $40,000 sgalnit the two
Pennsylvania' lines were for rebating to
the W. II. Merrltt Company, a Chlcngo
Hoard of Trade firm, while the $50,000
Panhandle flue was for rebating to H. A.
Kckhart, head of the Kckhart Milling
Company. Mr. Kckhart was tried for
the sume offence wrae time ago, but the
case was thrown out of court by Judge
Anderson.
The charge anal net Swtft Co. waa
that It shipped less than carload ship
ments to .Michigan points at the car
rates,
$100,000,000 OIL DEAL.
Americana to Buy Pearaoa'a In
terests In Mexico, la Report.
Larkdo, Tex., Nov, 11. Mexico City
newspapers reaching the 'border to-night
contain atatementa that the Gulf Oil
Company, an American corporation, will
purchase the Mexican oil properties of
Sir Weetman rearson (Lord Cowdray)
of England. The consideration, , the
papers state, will approxlmato about
$100,000,000.
The Pearson syndicate controls large
oil holdings In Tehuantepeo and Tarn.
pIco as well as being largely Interested
In the National nallroad of Mexico nnd
Improvement concerns at the ports of
Vera Crui, Puerto Mexico and Sallna
Cruz.
VIM uumt tun
s.tl 1 li. train earn. Nt
iA.MH. ,
Jfr-Bg?!'!-.
(flee, till Wawar.
tafermstlea1 sleasearg Mice.
as
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 12;
BITTER STRUGGLE
When They riled Ont for Din
ner They Showed Effects
of Disagreement.
RIVAL OAXOS LINED IT
Detectives Watched Crowds
That Gnthercd at the Close
of the Trial.
The Jury which is to decide the fate
of Michael A. Rofrnno, charged with the
murder of Michael Uatmnrl, one of his
political foemen. was locked up at 1 :30
this mouilnx after having been out nine
and one-half hours. Court declared a
recess until 11 o'clock this morning'.
The Jurors filed Into court for the
second time In the night shortly after
midnight to ask for a rereading of the
testimony of James ICnox, the chauffeur,
who swore that he took Rofrnno in the
winter of llilR to the neighborhood of
Klfty.slxth street and Fourteenth ave
nue, Brooklyn. After the rereading the
Jury again retired at 1 o'clock. The
members showed the strain they had
been under. Mrs. riofrano was waiting
In the Sheriff's otllce for the verdict.
It was expected that the verdict would
not be reached quickly and therefore
It was no surprise when the Jurors were
Permitted by Justice Weeks to go to
the Murray llll at o'clock for their
dinner lierore renenlng tlieir ciennera-
lions. nen tney nicii out or tin iiuiiu-( iiuxties, and that the mind thu re
Ing t that time the story of a bitter vested was what long ago California had
disagreement in the Jury room seemed '
to show In their fnre. They looked
mad, some of them, as If the arguments
hint not Irf-en of the pleisantest.
They were taken uptown In a large
bus under the guard of a dozen armed
detectives, who utmost found It loves'
;o force a passase thrcugh the
v.l ftut nail oil1rrt..,t to the base.
c n ry
, ,.f ii,m i.iiiiainir Thl rrnwd was
Interesting of all tho
(h(U haye colll.reRatr)I , ,e yfar poM
i. u.,i, vrdlet- it seemed to sorlnu
ut of the ground as soon as the Jury
retllCd. I
I Meetlun of the .
Those who had been Imprisoned in the
court room during the Judge's charge filed
out Into the deep, gloomy pit of the
building, where they met others who had
been there all day lounging on the stone
stairways, muttering In undertones, or
swaying back and forth In pairs under
the watchful eyes of detectives who knew
mum nf litem mm irieti with rrlmlnul rec
ords. Some were of the old Hofrano fac- I
It..,, nih.r- .!. .vtmothlur. with!
th n.im.,1. There llitls Inter. '
course t'ein The twV'r.
-Imply hmked at each other, but the 1
looks were hsrd
When the Jury went out the big hall
seemed to till suddenly. Added to those
who came from the court room were men
who ruhed up the stairs as tf they had
been merely wultlng outside for u signal.
The crowd was too de.n?e and ti-ne for '
comfort and mine nollcemrii were sent
I tevey ordeu-n tin except repoiiers aim i
those directly connected with the case to
K" down Into the basement, and there
"'ey staji'd. an old assemblage. One
detective pointed out a counterfeiter.
,,0-n gang'ters. men suspected of mur-
uit, uuii'in -un i"s imiB nnenuiin m
their discreitit, a rormer fninatown
dance hall keeper, as well i men of
good reputation. They were all parti I
sans and Itofrano's friends seemed to be I
lu the majority.
.11 (ialmnrl There,
... ....
itlke Itofrnnn as deenlv ns
wn" J,IK" "orrnno a .ieepi ns
0'' fv" '"' no,h"- l
noticeable that a detective who isat will-
h' ' court during the last few dayil
1 constantly nt his elbow. Hustr
(ilmarl. his brother, was not In eight,
' .. u.i-. nvtn.tr i-u. ,,uh, i...
came In and asked Justice Weeks If It
,.- -, . - .--
LtiUOl Ll'liriUt'l i. lUIIIKI Hi IIIUIl.CI 111
the second degree as an alternative of
v,,r,11(.t uf mul(lfr )n nt foM.
... , i,,,.i t w..b. -
,',,,,, lf , jlIr;,rM h,,rt ,,, of'Hons. residents of this place, four of
one degree they could tlnd defendant
length
the Jury
Thaw trial
was tlfty-Hix days, but the Jury was
not locked up all tne time and n com
mission to determine Thaw's sanity was
appointed In the middle of It, Ono of
the first Jurors, John B. Hearrt, was
taken 111 early In this trial and died
of pneumonia.
Th case's ramifications have been
startllnc. One man has already been
sentenced to death and Is now In Sing
Sing waiting to be executed for Gal
marl's murder, two others stand convicted
of manslaughter for It and another
awaits trial In the Tombs. The Mayor,
a Borough President and a Public Serv
ice Commissioner have been witnesses.
Michael Onlmarl, an election district
captain, and one of Tom Foley's follow
ers, was killed on March 8, 1915. Oae
tano Montlmagno, who slew him, was
caught almost Immediately and convict
ed. Montlmagno named others, and
Rorcn Cornell (Carnlvalle) and Frank
Fennlmore were also found guilty of
planning the murder.
Kofrano's name was mentioned early
In Montltnagno's trial, and when an In
dictment was found against him In Sep
tember, ID1C, he fled, nnd did not re
turn until April of this year. It Is
charged by the District Attorney that
he wanted Oalmarl out of the way be
cause (Islmarl threatened his political
influence with the Italians of the Second
District, and hired Cornell to get Mont
lmagno to kill Galmarl.
MRS, B0I8SEVAIN COBITION.
Nuffraarlst, III In horn Angeles, lias
riven Chance for Hecprsry.
Loh ANOEt.ES, Nov, 11. Mrs. Inez Mil
holland Holisevaln of New Tork city,
who became III here on her speaking
tour for suffrage, passed a bad night,
hospital authorities reported. To-day
her physicians said she had an even
chance for recovery.
Two transfusions of blood war mad
early In th week from her husband and
sister and a third was mad to-day.
nimnA-rriii -Atlanta
VIA HBABOARIl AIR I4NK RV. meeting th situation. All
Direct thru sen Irs. Qidi-K schedulu-"itesortHi- v W.... " Kli. i. .
booklets iiiti.nn.is vvt u , ttlt n-rtse.-ll,0 rTtr home Is a
j4Y. " (t 11 1 several hundred pupil;
hughes sold out by petty
POLITICIANS, SAYS JOHNSON
California's Governor Declares They Created Impres
sion Candidate Was a Reactionary, Which Couldn't
Be Removed in Time to Prevent Defeat.
San Fkancisco, Nov. 11. Gov. Hiram
W. Johnson, repl) Ing to a charge made by
the Los Angeles Times that he had been
a traitor to Hughes, Issued the following
statement to-day:
''The I,oe Atiffeles 7';m this mnrnlntr
n,uU. . i. i . ....i ..
,.,. ..... . . .
saults replete with the usual Times false-1
hoods. When nil loyal supporter of Mr.
Hughes In California are straining every
nerve In watching und guarding his In-
icresis only a Journalistic ghoul like the'
Times would seize this particular time '
for exploiting Us malice and mendacity. '
C'alllfornlans know full well what losti
this State to Hughes. A few petty poll-'
tlclans. acting with the Los Anicies I
7lme and one or two others, so mlsusi-d
Mr. Hughes and his visit to California
thnt the Injury they did we were unable
to unuo.
"When Mr. Hughes came Into our Statu
Crocker and Keesllng. aided nnd abetted
by the Times and-a small cotfrle. created
a situation In which they mad It ap
pear that Mr. HuKhes was entirely re
actionary nnd that he was neither In nc
cord with nor sympathetic with Cali
fornia's progressive achievement.
False Impression Created.
"It was not alone by their public ultl-
malum that Mr. Huglit-s would have
nothing to do with. l'ros:resiIveM In Call
fornln, but It was the atmosphere they
created iilmut our candidate. Catlfor
nlanh looked airhast and unfortunately
believed that the situation created by
v-rocser, Keveiimc and the Tlmm pie
kwIp, and revealed lh- mind of Mr.
P"seo uy ana repudiated
These little nolitlfbino ilnltur HiAlr I
little polities preferred tho gratification I
of their malice nnd the momentary 1
triumph of their prejudice to the success,
ot th' Hepubllcan ITesldentl.il cjnrtl-1
.tie. iney m,, ,iM,y aiimnieo I'rngres-1
Jlv'', ""d Ignored I'rogressive leadeis,
'ut Kraiiclscii with equal stupid-I
"' h'" Ignored San Francisco's great-!
v,,tr Ketter and most popular .Jla or,'
fJames Itolph, Jr.. and In Us Angiles ,
" " meoion me nuwiy up-
I"Jnted l.leutennt-(5nernor. the nmil
'""""' l' ln'"" III-,
lam D. Stevens, both of whom were reg-1
istered llepulillcans. I
nui u was noi in Ignoring or even'
Insulting Individuals that they did I
the greatest harm; It wqs Ignoring the I
State and Its record of progressive and i
humanitarian legislation, a great com-
monwenlth that had broken Its pjlltlcal I
chains und escaped forever fronf polltl-
cal bondage. , I
Impassable Crdo.
'-""""" " -ne "en wno wouiu
return them to the disgraceful conditions
" "lru"-1';
n'"1 '""Inee they had Anally emerged
surrounding with an Impas-iable coidou
,m Presidential andldate and openly
pioclalinlng that none should be p--
'"Itted near who believed In the iie.y
polltlciil fleedimi,
"-' 'be Riiilc-vement. tlie prncri-ss.
"'e acrumpllshment. the political lllnrtv
"t California that these s-tty polltl.-liin-
dv
Tlmss.
"Kven when campaigning f.ii Hushes
such papers lis the Los Angeles: Times
would lve no publldty either to tnv
meetings or my arguments In behalf ot
,ir. uugnes. l wouio taiK anil argue lor
,
Iff T Tfn TklfTIPft OTV
M A II 1 11 II w Kl l HS SI X
111111 IS U Uk 1 i-iJ U1XX
PERSONS IN 1 TOWN
Members of ArlillCtOII ' V
OHI mLTh III arilllKIII,
J.
Family and Two Neisli
hors Oct. Treatment.
AitLtNOTON, N. J Nov. 11. Six per-
them members of one family, have been
bitten by n mad dog the pait week. I to-nlghf. extending.. It Is said, to
some hour to-morrow. This appear to
When an examination of the dog's brnln. ,,H,nin (lf the. likelihood that the ship
completed lost night, proved It had died will leave In the course of the night. '
of hydrophobic the victims wero rushed ' A report also wan current that the sub
. v. vi. fe th. ii.ui.ne tr. imni ' marine had been undergoing a machln
to New York for the Pasteur treatment. ( n. and th, Mp(lr(( of rnn!l,,lel.alll
Five were nttended by physicians at the extent would have to be made before the
Hoard of Health and the sixth received I Deutschland put to sea. No visitors i
attention at the Pasteur Institute. wrte allowed on the wharf to-day, every
. . , . ., . ,. , . , one lielng challenged ot the otllce,
Tho dog. which died Friday night, was Mo,otl picture men nnd photographers '
a young water spaniel owned by Mr. took up points of vantage near the pier
and Mrs. Alexander 'Fraser of 20J I early In the afternoon, but were dlsap-'
nin. .nn. Th.. wrs Wttsn lat Pointed when the ship failed to leave her i
Qulncy avenue. They were bitten last hf.tr , ,he Hutp T,.rmna, iinno-eds ,
Sunday. Two days later the spaniel bit f spectators lined the hanks of the
their daughter Mabel. 10 years old, and 1 Thame expecting to see the boat sail,
Alexander, their son. years old. I J 11wl"el.w.enre T.'",', "'. ,
, , ,.,., ... Paul u. L. Milken, vice-president of
Wednesday the animal bit Mrs John . tue yrXtTn Forwarding Company, was
Matson and Jnms Stevenson, 1 4 years , conference' to-day with James U Mc
old. both neighbors, who received their oovern. State Customs Collector, and
wounds trying to save the anlmil fym jereinlalt Dillon, local customs officer. It
being hurt by larger nnd older dogs . reported that clearance and maul
which It bad attacked. test papers were made out, but this was
None of the victims has developed not coutlrmed.
nny alarming symptoms, and as they Jteports were current here to-night that
have been attended promptly, their doc- the German submarines U-57 and IViti
tors do not expect any further develop-, appear off the coast at nnv time to
ments. The residents of Arlington and as convoys to the DentM-hlaiul on her
Kearny, however, have become terrorized trip back tn Germany,
because tho spaniel was Inoculated by NYme the of coast guard stations from
a Htpv fox terrier six weeks ago, nnd It tills port as far as Point Judith saw am
has bitten several other dogs since it I submarines to-day, although they are
developed the disease. keeping a sharp lookout.
Two months ago a friend of Fraser
presented him with a spaniel which was I HUGHES'S HOME IS LEASED.
a wtggly, affectionate puppy 2 weeks old. . -,
About six weeks ago Mrs. Fraser looked) ., . . ...
out Into her yard and saw the little r.-"-l'r Henls w ashlngtoii Hesl-
antmal attacked by a fox terrier which drncr to Nw lis Conplr.
was snarling nnd snapping all over the" u..0I,tvI1TOK. ,, , ... ..
lawn. Bhe drove the Intruder away, res ,!?N' N"''r ' h cw
cued th. puppy and never thought of tho I ',1 ' e. ' Z. """ir ' I
Incident again until wt sunany, wnen,
ih. and h?r bushand were bitten
Th six patients' will receive dally
treatment for the next twenty-one days.
The serum will be supplied by the New
York Board of Health but administered
by Dr. A. H. Miller.
Th towns of Arlington and Kenrny
are greatly exercised over the affair
Waus other dogs now roaming nbout
may have been bitten. The Board
of Health of tCeamy ha called a special
MBfanno to be held there to-morrow
In order to discuss th best way of
meeting th situation. Almost adjacent
puunc school
a
1916. CopyrloM, Ul, by thr Run
Hughes at ntgm nnd tu ttic morning the
Times would bo filled with foul billings- 1
iate ngaltihl me. .
'Ten rial's before, elpctlnn we held a
lecord bieaklng meeting In the city of
f.os Angeles. It tecelved the following
morning in tho 7'lmcs the scantiest par
i agraph significantly headed 'Loyal.' A
few weeks before the election the Kan
.rnnelsco chroiiirtr awoke and began to
iwblkdi pud piny up for the first time the
i tremendous gatherings I was holding .
1 throughout the Slate and my speech In
oennir or uugnes ana ror tne lasi iwo or
tine,, da) a of the campaign the Chronicle
UU"'' d vfttislvely the speeches.
"The Hearst papers the day before
election in a resume of the situation In
California declared the State to lie very
close nnd questioned whether, with all
'of the efforts put forth by me, I would
be able to lead our people Into the
Hughes column. California citizenship
Is proud, seniltlve, discriminating, In
dependent and educated. No man, no
set of men. can deliver It or any part
of It.
neartlonar liowrnnient.
"A quarter of a century of Infamous
corporation rule yhloh rould not be
broken because of 'the old isjlttlcal con
vention system, but against which we are
over striving, and six years ot triumpn
and accomplishment under n direct prl- j
mary had given our people a full and
penetrating knowledge of ihe two sys
tems, nnd no matter what may be their
political affiliations, they will never te
turn to the old reactionary corporation
government nf which they rid them
selves In 1910, When Hughes first came (
to California our people saw tirst with '
amazement, then with sadneis. then with
Increasing Indignation, that apparently i
lie u whollv In ehnrse of thoxe' who
repdesented the old system, and the
picture presented to our people was ono
tli.it Cm. ker. Keesllng mid Otis nnd the
few acting wJth them so Impressed upon
the reoolleo'.xnn ,r our i
electorate that
despite our
ellmliinte.:
efforts It roiib
I not be wholly
Tho Times eonmiems upon my larg
majority In California two years ago
against a candidate with the lb-publican
nonunatinn i nun ny i'.mi.hiui, ii mhkiu
ns well eoinment upon 'lie fact that the
Stat.- or Wasnil.glOn eleOIS el,aIOr I OH1-
dexter an overwiu lmlng majority nnd ,
decisively goes for Wilson . that Kansas
overwhelming elects "njfper. liepuu-.
llcan, C.nvernnr, and defeats Hughes by a '
large majority; that Minnesota over-1
whelmlngly elects u Hepubllcan (loy,
emor and Kellogg, Hepubllcan, a United
states Senator, and yet presents n vote ,
similar to ouis upon the Presidency,
'
Kxamplea Im Calllrla.
m our ,n th(. Conftr,. I
KU.ll.il msirici wnicn wem neaviesi .or.
Wllom. Congressman Curry, Ileputilican, 1
"J"' " 1 "V'1 J" '""". r. ,
wh.-r.- Wilson received the b.ce.t ma-
Jontv. Kahn, Hepubllcan, for CongrrM.,
w,n- by ' to t. '
1' iere arc many thins, which might ,
.e added, many thni may still have In
uo related, but it Is a matter of regret
that any statement should be necessary
nt this time concerning the result In ('all 1
fonil.i It would not be necessary but
Crocker. Francis V Keesllua. Harrison
i Gray Otis and the few acting In con-
cert with them have the pi uud distinction
'of hiving nude a President of tho I'nlted ,
States, and Woodrow Wilson owes to,
inem ii nunv inai or never can repay
DEUTSCHLANDCREW
GETS SHORE LEAVE
I'lit'on finned Report That Mer
chant Submarine Had Ob
tained Clearance.
Nkw Iinpov, Conn.. Nov. II. Mem-
bers of the crew of tho Qe.man sul
marine Ieiitschland were given shore
, . i V . . ;v'
t",le,, ''. 1 fHmlly whlln Mr. Hughes
u'liu 11, lit. liH,t,,h nt l.n ll,.HAn.n
.... ..." .....v.. ... ,jjrillU I. UIITI, I
has been leased to Mr. and Mrs, Louis
Isomhard of Lu-nno, Switzerland.
Mr. nnd .Mrs, Hughes will resume their
-nulil. ne., l.t Ve,e V,.!, .,,l .
" ' '. . nn- luriocr
Justice and Hepubllcan candidate will
resume the practice of law, It Is under
stood here.
Mr. and Mrs. Lombard, the new ten
ants, are now In New York. They have
recently returned frm California, wheie
they passed a year.
PlNKIH'ltST rtOIIII.s AMI OOI.F LINKS
now n lii id .Mr l.lue.lltl liwsy,
.4 ill-
Printing and PubHtMng A$ocUitton.
COLUMBIAN SUNK:
nnmn n i nn tit nn i tit
American Ship's Conipuny
Arrives in Lifehoats at
Corumia, Says Despatch.
MORE VESSELS 00 DOWN
Three Norwegian, Two Ilrltish !
nnd One Danish Vessel
Are Victims.
Loudon, Nov, 11. The crew of the
American steamship Columbian has ar
rived at Corunna, Spain, In lifeboats.
says a Iteuter despatch from Madrid. ,
Lloyd's to-night hart po'ted a notice
that the Columbian was believed to have '
been sunk.
It was reported here on Wednediy
that the Columbian was sending out
wireless rails for help, saying sho was
being shelled by u subVnnrlne. Tho call 1
were nicked un at that time by Ad
miralty stations.
Nothing further, however, had been
heard of the Columbian until to-night's
statement from Lloyd's Shipping Agency.
Had Pnaseiiurrs.
The Columblun Is under American reg
istry, find sailed from New- Yolk October
IS nnd lloston OctoUr 21, bound for
(ienoa. She was report! d as touching at
St. Naz.ilre, France, on November I.
leaving that port the next day for Italy.
The Columblun l owned by the American-Hawaiian'
Steamship Company of
New York ami was built In San Fran
cisco In 100 .The vessel carried no
imssengirs, hut had a crew of nbout 113
"Ulcers and men. She was under charter
by tho France and Canada Steamship
Company, with olllcre-.ln New York.
The reported slnjllng of six steam
ships, three Nnrwajnan, two lirltlsh and
one Danish, and continuation of the sink
ing of the Hritlsh steamer lloeota, is
made In announcement lued by Lloyd's
to-uluht and In Iteuter dispatches.
The llogota, ttje shipping ngenry said
last nlsht. was believed to have been
sunk. The agency now reports that
seventeen of the crew of the lloenta hail
been picked up nnd that two boats are
unaccounted for.
The lliltish Kramers .M.uga and Hart
of Foifar uie rtportid lost, and the
Danl-h steamship Freji ha- h.-n sunk
by a Get man submarine.
.Vortr rglan Vessels Lost.
Th" three Norwegian steamships re
ported lost 111 Iteuter despatches are the
Trlpel, said to have ben sunk by a
submarine, and the Hallo nnd Fordalen.
Thirty-six of the crew of the Trlpel are
reported to havn been saved nnd the
crews of th Hallo and Fordalen have
been landed.
The steamer Trlpel. of 1 48 ne' tons,
left Haltlmore nn October "2 for Genoa
The steamer Halto left New York on
October IT lor Portuguese ami Spanl-h
ports Tho vessel was formerly the
lllmern, and measured 3, CD gross ton".
The Fordalen. of 1 6(0 net tons, arrived
at Hull, nngl.ind, on October 22 from
Havana, Italy.
The llogota, of 4I03 tons. left San
Juan on October for London. rhe
was owned in Liverpool The .Margn, of
S74 lon, was formerly the Marg.uet, and
whs owned In Sunderland. The H.trl of
Forfar measured 453 tons, and was lasi
rojNjrted leaving Havro October .' for
Cardiff, She was HSR feet long and whs
owned In Glasgow.
WILSON TO GET DATA.
I L
Cnliiniblan nnd Other Cases In II
Presented Tbls Week.
Wanhinoton, Nov. 11. Tlie ase of
the American steamer Columbian, te.
ported sunk off the Spanish coast, will
be laid before President Wilson b the
State Department early next week as
part of a genernl summary of recent sub
marine operations, construed by some of
llclals as forecasting a radical change In
the German policy.
Information regatdlng the Columbian
was fo Incomplete to-night that no of
ficial would pi edict what part the caae
night play In tlnal diteitnlnation of this
Government's course. Lite In the day
tlie American Consul at nullum for
warded the report that the vessel had
been sunk thirty miles mT Cat Ortegul
and her crew saved, but no details were
given, The despatch Immediately was
called In tho attention of Secretary
Lansing.
Points to b cleat ed up before a de
cision Is leached involve the questions
of whether the vessel was fired upon
without warning, whether she carried
contraband and whether she attempted
to escape.
Inference From thr shelling.
Tlie report received several days ago
that the Columbian was being shelled by
a siibmatlue led many ofllclals to
believe that she probably waa running
away, thereby sacrificing her immunlt
from attack, If she carried contraband
and was properly warned, the case may
resolve Itself into a question of Indem
uitv All available facts regarding the Co
lumhlun will b collected ns soon as pos.
slide. Information lu the Marina,
Arabia and Lauao cases also Is still In
complete, but every report received fo
far regarding these vessels will be
pliued before the President as s-mu u
ho returns to his desk nt tho While
House. v
The President will hold Important
conferences with Secretary Lansing on
foreign affairs. The recent activities of
ileim.in submarines, I he deportatlnie
tiom Belgium and Fiance of civilians by
the German military authorities rind the
Mexican embrogllo are the matters of
the most pressing moment.
The submarine situation Is admit
tedly more disturbing thnn It Ii.ih been
nt any time since tlie channel packet Sus.
sex was attacked, Definite it-ports linvi
been received that the Hritlsh pasrenger
steamship Arabia was attacked without
warning, and the sinking of the lliltish
freighter Marina resulted In the, loss of
six American lives,
Inquiry Into Marina Case,
Count von HeinstorlT, the German Am
bassador, Is understooij to have received
word that the Marina case Is being In
vestigated. Ho Is convinced that tho
German Government has not changed Ita
policy with respect to submarine warfare
and does not intend to do no.
Advices from Herlln to tlie State De.
partment Indicate, however, that the
German Admiralty Is leaning toward the
Von Tlrpltz Idea of ruthless submarine
warfare despite the Imperial Foreign Of
fice, This Government fears that the
Continued on Fourth Pap.
58 PAGES.
baker pvts ban os
GUARD DISCHARGES
New Order Forbids the Release
of Any .More Men Serving
on Border.
San Antonio, Tex., Nov. II National
Guardsmen are not to be discharged
from the Federal service for any reason
other than the "Interest of the Govern
ment," according to new Instructions
from Secretary of War llaker to South
ern department headquarters. It was ad
mitted by offletta here to-night that this
ruling prnetlmlly cloes the door to
members of the National Guard who are
desliou nf leaving the service.
The Information also was given nut
that It was iuip.if slide for the War !'
p.irtment to say dellnltcly when the
various organizations, or any partlcu
lat organization of the National Guard,.
wnltlil h. r..tne...,l tn tt.,.1. I... Un...
Included In the order was the explana
tion that "The granting of nil the nu
merous applications of business and pro
fsslonal men for discharge from the
National Guard would dleorganlze manv
militia units and seriously Imualr the
elllcleiicy of the service, ami favorable I
action on any Individual application
would be a manifest discrimination
against many other soldiers eliullarl.v
circumstanced nnd equally deserving of
favorable consideration."
TEUTONS CALL ON
POLAND FOR ARMY
Austro-Oeriuan Proclamation
Trges Voluntary Enlist
ment Airainst. Russia.
I HEr.UN- (by wireless), Nov. 11. -An
j Aus'ro.Geiman proclamation to the
Poles calling upon them to volunteer
for the new Polish army, which will
i serve In Intimate association with the
armies of the Central Powers, has been
1 published In Warsaw and Lublin. The
tet of the proclamation, which Is signed
(oy Governor-tleneinl lleseler and Gen.
Kuk, is quoted by tho Overseas News
, Aiiim-y us follows :
"The rule!. of l.o allied Towers of
vuMrln-Hiingnr nnd Germany have
given notification of their resolution to
form of the Polish land delivered from
Itii'shn tyranny the new autonomous
klm.-dom of Poland. Your most ardent
(desire, entertained In vain during more
than n century, is thus fulfilled.
I "The important n and dangor of this
(war time and regard for our armies
I standing before the enemy oblige us for
i th- present to keep tho administration
of your now State still In our hands.
I Headlly, however, we will give, with
your aid, to the new Pnlnnd by decrees
those public Institutions which guarantee
her consolidation, development nnd
ifety. of these the Polish army Is the
1 mo-i Important.
'The struggle with lytssla Is not yet
terminated. You d.slre to Join In It.
Therefore step to our side as volunteers
In order to hslp complete our victories
over your oppressor. Bravely nnd with
out distinction jour brothers of the
Polish legion fought on our side.
"Hlvnl that In the new bodies of troops
which, together with the legions, shall
form the Polish army. That will consol
idate your new State and guarantee Its
Interior nnd exterior security
"You will protect your country tinder
your own colors and flags, cherished by
voti nbove all. We know your courage
and your ardent patriotism, and call you
to arms at our side. Itlse, you valiant
i men, and follow the example set by the
' brave Polish legion, anil In common work
with the Get man and Austro-Hungarlan
' armies and lay tlie foundation for a Pol
, Ish army, reviving the glorious traditions
, of our war history by the faith and
I bravery of your warilors."
Ileproeentatlves' of the League of
the Polish Commonwealth to-day for
warded to llinperor William through
lie ilnvtrnor-Gener-vl a telegram e-Pie-siig
thanks for Hie proclama
tion of the Polish kingdom, which Is
described as a guarantee of the fulfil
lment of tlie most anient national anibl
, lions of tlie Poles.
I "Wo recognize the confidence tepoed
, In us and answer It with equal conn-
dence," says the tilegram, "We believe
I and hope that the promises In the procla
mation will ho ftiltllled and we ore deter
mined to give our property and lives to
develop the kingdom of Poland at the
side of our liberators as mi Independent
and powerful State" '
ARIZONA BALLOT "INVALID."
11. II. I'hssIiI). G. I). P. I.emler,
Hnji It llnrreil n I'lmlee.
BlsltKL', Ariz., Nnv II iM V.. Cassldy,
M-lona chairman of tho Ilnanco com
mittee of the Hepubllcan National Com
mittee, to-day brought to the nttentlon
of the latter organization th possibility
that the maimer In which the Arizona
Presidential electors had been voted for
was unconstitutional.
In Arizona all of the, electors were
bra ki-tted and the voter had to cast his
ballot for all or none lie could not
make a choice between the electors", On
this feature the Arizona man believes
the Wilson vole in Arizona may be de
clared void,
LONDON "TIMES' 7 CENTS.
I I'rler tn He Inerrnsrd Nnv
so.
J Sn "Weekly Dispatch."
, Isinpon. Nov. IA (Sunday) Tlie
price of the Turn's will be Increased to i
tl.ren and a halt pence i seven tents)
after November 2(1, and other Impor
tant dally newspapers prnbahlj will fol
low suit, saa the W'ei'kly lllnfintoh
Owing to the cost of production, It
adds, a number of lending newspapers
are being conducted at very heavy losses.
FOOTBALL BY MOTOR LIGHTS.
1 Hundred I itrs Turn Headlining On
nl OLInhotua Game.
I STn.l.WA-ir.ii, Okla,. Nov. 1 -Head.!
I lights from more than a hundred auto.
I mobiles Illuminated tho gridiron during I
I the last two periods of the football game
' hire to-da.v Letweui Oklahoma A, and M. 1
i nnd Central Slate Normal, und the ball ,
was. painted while to enable the men to ,
see tne pasijeft
Two storms delayed the game until It j
seemed too dark to complete the contest, i
The nttthtnnbllaH then melt tied the Held, I
the lights were put In position and with
inn nan painteii wnite tne a and M
lentil defeated the visitors, 34 to ii
The A l'(ir NT A erRCIAI. I iOS V. M. IIAH.V
Via Hnuthern Hallway, Itrswlng, Hmt.rooin.
Bissplng and Dining Curs. Quickest and
bMt wiv to Alksn. Aucu-ts. Aihavllls. K.
aC. New Tor Oldee, Hi fifth Ave. teg.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
RUSSIAN ARMY
SWEEPS DOWN
ON MACKENSEN
As Bridge Battle Kugus
Snkhnroff Pushes On
in Dobrudjii.
TEl'TOX CENTRE IK
IN (JRAVE DANtiEIi
Two Villus Only Tveul,
.Miles From ('ennivodn
Lost to Biilgnis.
JirsniVITE FLEET
SMELLS COXSTANZA
Reservoirs of Oil Are Set on
Fire. Itluzin;r for
Two Days.
Lo.Mio.s'. Nov. ii. -Von Mnckitisen
still holds the half mile p.in ut th
cistern end nf the great (Vrnavodn
bridge- that crosses the stream of tin;
Dannie. Tho Htisslans hold tho re
maltilnp; ton nni n linif tulles, but de
splto desperate struggles have been
itnablo to seize the, span or oross to
Cernavoda.
Hut the pressure on the army nf
Teutons. Turks and Hulgars Is growing
heavier. Forced to defend tho bridgo
on their left flank, their right flank nt
Constanza on the niack fira has been
shelled by Russttn warship. Reser
voir of oil and naphtha on tho wnter
front exploded and flames swept the
city for two days.
Agranee tn Dobradja.
Gen. SakhnrofTn army from northern
Dobnidja Is now tomo fifteen miles
from ttio Const uiza-Cernavoda railroad
and steadily advancing. Its pressure
on Von Mackensen's centro Is stronger.
GMisdarechtl and Tupal, Dohrudja vil
lage on the Danube less than twenty
intle from Cernavoda, were taken to
day from tho Bttlgars.
Von Mackeruen Is yielding all along
this line, and the Bulgarian population
of the Dohrudja !a fleeing south to Ibjl
garla, according to an unconfirmed wire,
less tnsssge from Bucharest. The des.
patch sujs great fires have breii ub
served In the direction of Cernavoda and
Cnntnnzii.
According to a neuter despatch from
Petrograd the Russian warships also
bombarded Mangalla, nn tho Dohrudja
coast south of Constanza Bulgarian
shor batteries ,,t Constanz-t were si
biced. tit. despatch says, and heavy
losses wvre It-flirted upon tho garrison
A t.erma-: airplane attempted to bom
hard the Ru,.an squadron and was
brought down The pilot nnd observer
were captured The fires at lYuistanza
could not be put out bei-aus,. th,. ;u.
manlnns had removed the lire 'engines
vihen they evacuated the plac
llnsalnns Pualiri! Unci..
As expected, the Ilus.s'.,,,, ., hl.,K
the great bridge have found the T. uton
heavy nrtllleiy a serious .distarlc to their
advance. A Bulgarian o!!lrl.il M.n.ineti
received to-day. but refeit.ng to vi-tei-day
h operations, sav s
Near the Cernavoda bridge our ai.
tillery compelled enemv lltl,. ,v,, j,
had pushed forward to the left (westi
bank if the Danube to r.tlie toward
1 tiiuarea,
Since the Bulgarian statement says
only thnt th- Hu-.lans t.-tired "tow-aid"
Dunaiea, and since Hunniea ,h oulv ,
mile and a half back rioin the west
bank or the Danube, it hcllew-d her,,
that tho ItUfslans have not h.-i n et
ouely repulsed. It Is generallv biluve,'
tbe will now wait for their own Vavy
artillery to be brou.-bt up and ,;aee
found for It In the Danub. marsbes ie
fore trying another attack.
Observe) s believe, that the Tentum
have succeeded ill reparing th Cerna
voda bridge, They beilevn that tlie
Humanlans destroyed only a few spnm
of the bridge when they withdrew from
Cernavoda acro.t, the Pat tdie to old
Rumania.
Danube Coup llrpealrd.
In throwing troops across the Danube
Von Mnckensen has nccompllshed a feat
r minlsrent of his accomplishment when
Serbia was overrun Then he. was In
supreme command of the Teuton armies
thnt suddenly crossed the Danube nt
three points, nnd swept the Serbians be
fore them. At that time the crossing
was made on pontoons, which may also
have been used In the Cernavoda cross
lug Bulgarian troops under Von Macken
sen's command attempted to-day to
creato n diversion to offset the 'ffects of
tha qulik moves of the Russians against
his Dohrudja position. Two hundred
miles away, on the northern boundary i'
Bulgaria, they tried to ero-s the Danube
at tho mouth of tho Alt, between Nikopol
and Turnu Maguetle. The Rumanians rr
pulsed tho attempt Feints are, being
made nt other points along the Danube
to force the Rumanians to keep a strong
guard all along the river.
German und Rumanian versions of the
fighting on tho Transylvanlnn front dif
fer Them have been tierce combats at
almost evory pass or rlvrr valley on the.
whole 400 mile front.
Still In Trnne)lvnula.
The Russian nffeiislvo has been
stopped, but the RussIiiih still hold the
HellHir-llollo position live tnllea instdn
tlie border of TraiiHylvnnta agalpsi
strong Teuton attacKs. The Germans
have nttacked south of this region In the
Carpathians, sttlklng toward the Ru
manian railroad communications at
Tergu Ocna through the Slanlo Valley
Three attacks failed.
There was violent fighting In the een
tre. In the Prahova Volley, which Is the
entranco to tho straight road td Bucha
rest. Th Rumanians say they repulntd
tr -rauion Macs, nut a nmiiiii
I
m
I
Mi
