-~ -C,
,"arorder to set' the
*1etlea ,ton t ea~a an
___IWJ LD Oonecent'
*Tat an a
NO.tin late7. neUen
NO. 3677- -WEaRas-SAm. WABEPNGTN. D. 0. SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1916. ONE Cam
FIRMER FOREIGN
POLICY WILL BE
ADOPTED BY U. S.
Series of Important Confer
ences to Be ield Here
Begnning Wednesday.
TO COVER ENTIRE FIELD
Great Britain. Germany and Mexico
Likely to Be CaWled to
Account.
A serlas of the most important councins
of the Wilsn aminiatration affecting
American foreign relations will begin at
the White House next Wednesday. Presi
dent Wilson and Secretary of State Lan
sig in a number of conferences will
review the entire Geld of foreign issues.
inoluding theme with England which have
been held In abeyance for more than a
Year. 3 unffieially outlined yesterday
the subjects to be taken up and the or
der in which they will be considered fol
low:
With Germany-The 4rted destruc
tion of British meraentmen without
warning, endangering Arpericar lives; the
reported attacks on the Columbia and
the Lanao. American ships, and the
memoranda In the Lusitania case which
has lain on Secretary Lansing's desk
since last February.
Queetiens to Ask Britiab.
With Great Britain-Unlawful restric
tiQns upon American commerce; the black
1lst. interference with American mails. ar
bltry orders in council limiting Amer
can rights on the high seas and . arbi
t;-ry Hats of contraband.
* With Mexico-The situation in Chihua
hua. which the State Department admits
has not improved. The administration Is
pledged not to withdraw the American
furces from Mexico so long as conditions
in that country are such as to constitut
re menace to the American frontier.
Following 1is discussion with Secre
tary Lansing and aside from the general
consideration to be given these matters
at the regular Cabinet meetings, Presi
dent Wilson is expected to call into con
sultation Secretary of War Baker on
questionsa relating to Mexico. Secretary
of the Treasury Mcdoo on questions o'
retaliation against Great Britain for her
war upon American commerce and other
department h-ads who will be charged
with responsibility for the execution of
the polcies decided upon.
Expect Firmer Pelter.
There are many other questions In the
foreign relations field which will be dealt
with soon. but the more important will
take precedence.
Ofetiials in all administration circles
belev- Ihere will be more firmness
shown bI the President. assured of an
other four years of ofMee without the
di'turbing influences of a national cam
ralzn. They point to certain declara
tions in the Democratic platform and as
Fart th-y were either written or ordered
Into the platform by the President and
enrrectly state his attitude
Tie foreign relations p!ank of the plat
firr., says:
We holl that it Is ithe duty of the
United States to use its power not only
to rla ?{* itself safe at home. but also
t. ma-.ke eure its just interests through
1.ut 0-, world and, both for this end
., in the interest of humanity to as
eint the world in securing settled peace
And justice."
GARRANZISTAS IN HOT
PURSUIT OF VILLA MEN
Chihuahua City Continues Preparations
to Wthstand Possible Attack.
The Mexiian. Embassy received yeater
day the following message from Consul
Bravo at El Pano:
"tlihitary headquarters at Chihuahua
City has informed me that the forces
under Gen. Marqiuia left EsPiaon. march
Ing northward. Gen. Mur'quia's troops
were divided Into two columns. One of
these Is engaged in repairing railroad
tracks as it goes forward. The other,
:Omposed of about 300 men. is a strictly
'nilitary force. Its purpope is the pursuit
af a flying column of Villistas, which
A supposed to be tF6 the Immediate neigh
tiorhood of the Durango boundary.
"Day by day It becomes apparent that
an attack upon Chihuahua City is not
VilIa's object. Nevertheless. 6he forti
Scation of the town and its preparation
:0 withstand attatek continues ander the
lirection of Gen. 74,evino. Complete con
5dence Is felt that the dommanders and
:heir troops. all of whom are seasoned
reterans, will conduct the campaign now
onder way to a successful conclusion."
At the State Department much doubt
was felt as to the accuracy of a report
'rom the horder stating that Chihuahua
)ad either oeen captured or evacuated.
2=T LAMD BOY INf 1AML
New York, Nov. 11.-Wilson's chanies
ooked good to William Seymour. of SM
W ;est One Hundred and Twenty-eighth
street. and he bet 38 to 35 that the Preal
lent would be re-elected. William is-or
was-a delivery boy for Stern Brothers.
ad the i8 he bet had been given him by
bie firm to return to a customer.
All would have been well had not the
daheholder been a lautious person who
efused to turn over the money to WiI
lam until the election of Wilson had been
neontestably verified. The customer,
ailing to receive his S8. became anxiousn
ad telephoned Stern Brothers. Wmtlia
ras questioned and confessed at once.
TO WAR OK O 3068.
New .* Nov. 11.-Next Monday will
e the beginning ot a eampaign by 1Ithlety'
5spectorsef the Brefe Health aginst
ealens sellasg storage eggs as freah.
D~r. Lucis P. Blown, ot the Depart
sent of Iroed and Drg, sid hi. assm
ad seemed evideo yesterday at da
a-s whire 4Mamr had been seling lad
g.e Theme aem,. he sai, am Ibane to
- MCa and a wder's tieanam..est
ON 'CANG WORTH P5,000
New York. Nov. U1.-Twenty yers ego
Philip Miller obtained a' job as messen
ger on the floor of the'New York- Stocl
Exllaae, Messenger wages range be
tween IN and. =D a week. Miller starte*
at the betom.
Arrsivng on'his post today, Miller found
himself Possessor of a membership and
a seat worth pS. It has been pre
sented to him by his firm, Underhill &
Oilmer. for "faithful service." When the
'Change dcens Monday Ie will take hIs
seat with the other members of the firm.
Miller Is reputed as the beet posted
man In Wall Street. . He has made and
saved fortunes for scores and amassea
'a neat fortune of his own.
SITE IS OPPOSED
ResidentsObject to New House
of Detention Qiarters.
R1esidents of M street between Ninth
and Tenth streets northwest plan to fight
the Orsen0 of the new District House of
Detention In the - old Norment homestead
at 6 M street. The neighbors will apply
to the District Supreme Court for an in
junction to prevent this action.
An Indignation meeting will probably
be held tomorrow. Neighbors say that a
House of Detention will cause depre4
tion of the value of their properties and
that curious crowds which will congrse
gate Wvhen a prisoner is brought there
will disturb their peace.
Maurice Joyce, of the Joyce Engraving
Company, living at =22 M street, is one
of the prime movers to regsbter a com
plaint. Dr. Charles 1. West, living on
ont side of the Norment MansIon, and ,I.
G. McQueen. residing on the other side.
ilso oppose the action of the Commission
ers. W. U. White. of 93S M street. who
lives across the street from the Norment
mansion, compalins that a House of De
tention would be a nuisance In the neigh
borhood.
The Commissioners propose to use the
mansion to detain prisoners under 21
Years old and women who are fist offend
ers. The present #ouse of Detention 2
Eighteenth street near New Yock avenue
has been declared unsanitary.
NATION-WIDE CLASH
OVER MILK BiREWINii
Dairymen Organizing to Control Price.
Twelve-Cent Product Likely.
Dalrymen throughout the United States
are organizing to control the price of
milk. The result will be that milk will
sell at 1! cents and perhaps more a
quart. The PtrYmen's IAege of New
York andW Tri-State League. gaonprie
fag dalryn-olb-tn Pennsylvania. New Jer
sey and Delaware, are leading the amal
gamation.
These facts wereN learned yesterday
afternoon at the &MA conference of
county agent leaders at -the New Willard
Hotel. The combine of the dairymen will
mean a nation-wide clash between them
and retail merchants, the latter stating
that they will refuse to pay more than
the present price for milk.
Dairymen state that an increase in the
cost of milk is Imperative because of the
higher cost of stabling cows and of feed
and labor. They say that milk is a los
ing proposition with them if they cannot
get more than 34 cents a gallon whole
sale.
In organizing they have the backing
of many State and other agriqultural so
cieties. The county agents indorsed their
action by providing an educational pro
gram to insure permanency to the dairy
men's leagues.
Retailers will refuse to consider an In
crease in the price of milk. A month ago
they paid 32 cents a gollon wholesale.
Now they are threatened with a price of
37 cents a 'gallon.
The average retail price of milk is 10
cents a quart. This represents a recent
increase of 2 cents. Dealers take the po
sition that consumers will refuse to pay
more than they are now paying and that
at 32 cents a gallon wholesale dairymen
would be making a reasonable profit.
FOREIGm'S EXCUSE ACCEPTED.
Chicago. Nov. 1.-Ignats Heisler was
before Judge Sullivan on examination for
naturalization.
"Who is President of the United States,"
was asked by the government examining
ofiicial.
"Well, by gdl&, I don't know." an
swered Heisler. "You know one paper
says Wilson and another Hughes. and I
don't know for sure yet."
"Witaess is excused from answering
the question at present," said Judge ul
livan.
SKURE AXONG DANCE ES.
'Pittsbyigh, Nov. 11.-Five hundred per
sons. most of them autoists and residents
of the exclusive East End section, joined
in a chase through East End streets after,
a skunk which had halted trafe in
Highland avenue by becoming defiant
when awakened from a peaceful rese
by Paul Harper. a cotillon leader, who
Jumped out of his auto to see what the
animal was. He soon found out when
the animal showed considerable fight.
He was shot, but he left a lasting im
pression on those who joined in the chase.
XA TT12 ELLIOTT HONORED.
Havre, Nov. 11.-King EAlbert, of Blel
glum. announced today he adaccorded
the cross of a chevalier of he Order of
the Crown to Miss Maxine Eliott, who
since November, 1914, has been actively
working in the distrillition of mooney.,
clothing and food to refugee. Apd other
needy women and childrea In the part
of Belgium net occupied by the Ger~an.,
Beside. giving all her time for two
years to the work of relief, Moiss Elliott,
who was formarty a theatrical star, has
g1,en large sum of moneV to dierent
GlYENantRIGIT TO SEE.
New Yor'k, Nov. I.--The Apait~ata Di
de se e Me Sid na ay sue
Ar'thur' I. floe, sea of the tm'raneto~n
-e muhcturer. fr 13*3 ,demegu=s
In a bueaeh of probe Atlom. The oma
Sh oe ws entlteI a slfmt
BLACKMAL POT,
EMBASSY AVERS
Former Spy Arrested on Com
plaint of German Countess.
Armgaard Karl Graves. a professed
former. German' and British spy, was
arrested at the home of Prince von Hkts
feldt-Trachenberg in this city at 10:30
o'clock yesterday morning charged with
attempting to 'blackmall Countess von
Bernstoff, wife of the German Ambas
sador.
The arrest was kept secret by the De
partment of Justice until 6 o'clock laSt
evening, when A. Bruce Blelaski, chief
of the bureau of Investigation, announOed
that Graves was being held on a charge
of blackmail.
Mr. Blelaski stated that Graves had
attempted to obtain $k, from Prince
von Hatsfeldt. counselor of the Germwa
Embassy, for the surrender of stolen let
ters addressd to Countess von Bernatoff.
The letters, Mr. Bielaski asserted, were
from a cousin of the countess in Ger
many, and the fact that they contained
endearing terms probably moved Graves
to believe they would embarrass her If
made public.
A person close to the Embassy said
that some of the letters were from the
son of Count and Countess von Bernstoff.
who has been in Germany ever sines the
war began.
Mr. Bielaski said Graves came to Wash
ington several days ago and approached
Prince von Hatsfeldt, Informing him
that he had possession of the letters and
desired to know what he could get for
them. The prince carried on negotla
('O.nTNUW ONPA02 TWO.
YALE STUDENT FINDS
TORSO ON HIS AUTO
Legs of Man Discovered on Road
Third of Mile Away.
(Bly the Internatiemal News servie.)
New Haven, Conn.. Nov 11.-Charles H.
Whitney. a Yale student. driving his car
on the Milford turnpike in the town of
Orange west of New Haven. at I o'clock
this morning with two other students.
found his sterring fear acting badly.
He stopped to investigate and was hor
rified to find the torso of a man wedged
in between one of the front wheels and
the springs: About a third of a mile
back he says he had turned out quickly
to avoid a big auto truck owned by~ the
Winchester Arms Company, bound in the
same direction toward New Haven.
He went back to investigate and near
the spot where he had turned out
found the legs. which evidently belongod
to the eame body.
Whitney skys he was unaware that he
had hit anyone. It is tlought possible
that the man was struck by the truck
and mangled about the time Whitney
passed it and that parts of his body
fouled his machine. He does not think
his car, which was much lighter than
the truck, would have so mangled the
body.
REORGANIZED RIJSSIANS
DRIVINO BACK FOEMEN
Dobrudja Advances Believed Forerun
ner of Great Battle.
(By the Intermatieaal News servioe.)
London, Nov. 11.-The re-enforced and
reorganized Russo-Rumanian army'* In
Dobrudja, led by the noted Russian
itrategist, Gen. Sakharoff. Is fighting the
preliminaries of what promises to be at
major battle north of the Constanza
Cernavoda line.
The German and Bulgarian cavalry
which had penetrated more than ifty
miles north of Cernavoda., is rapidly
being driven back to the main lines.
which, according to Berlin and Sofia dis
patches. is logated some few miles north
of the railway line. These advanced de
tachments have been thrown back with
great rapidity on an average of more
than ten miles a day. They have burned
a number of towns and villages behind
them.
Meanwhile, Field Marshal von Mack
ensen has thrown troops across the Dan
ube into Rumania in the region of the
Cernavoda Bridge. They have come into
collision with 'tussians and Rumanians
defen~ing old Rumania from invasion
in that region and some sharp fighting
has occurred in the region of the village
of Dunareay.
BUMs NO IOMr DIGUM.
Paris, Nov. 1.]-The horrible burns
caused by German ame-throwers are be
ing successfully treated with a new
method devised by Dr. Bathe de Sand
fort. Instead of antiseptic dressings,
which kill the living elements of the tis-.
sue, a mixture of parrafin and resina is
melted and kept at a certain temperature
on the burn. The substance, .called am
brine, revives the apparently lost ac
tivity of the injured gllules and a na
tural skIn finally appears, with scarcely
and disfigurement.
"HOOEY" CEUSES TRAGEDY.
Albany, N. Y., Nov. 1. .... Playing
"hookey" from se oi cost one boy his
life and another is I heartbroken with
grief as the result of an acidental shoot
ing at ILrther. Renmieler County. The
two boys. Leconarf Hoffarth and Lewis
Meyers, were 15ya-l playmates and
while in the delds hunting, instead of be
ing in school. Hoffarth's rile was acci
dentally discharged. The bullet lodged In
Meyer's brain.
New York. 21ev.I-Dnkati Na
tional Vhkaanre 3eCersbik lef
for a few daye' west. , asre lamita be
predicted the Repubfleas weinM net pro
test the *eeclo to Psetjpat Wilson
when the results are at 'in
Chicee. NOV. 11.-Malera btmp no
e ee in Iten'sted In geefi dis, It Is
Iatenede solely k M..vet mal Dr.
IWame W&tams Lead
b Two DetfulStates
Latest dispatches from the States
stgi remainain in doubt on the
PresMeMti election give the fog.
lowIg results.
1liernia, with 17 precincts miss
lng Out of M0, the figures stand:
Hgh, 411,81111; Wilson, 466.106. Wil
Son's plurailty so far is 3,. *
Mimneeota-In $,NO precincts out
of 3,008 Wilson gets 17.114, H'ughes
1731. Hughes plurality 239.
New Hampeire-Certined returns
from 231 preCincts out of 24 give
'Hughes 4116, Wilson 4.274. Unof
ROel reports from all except one
Oman" precinct give the State to
Wil"sa by I.
CABINET SHIFTS?
Reorganization Upon Presi
dent's Return Rumored.
(By the laternatteeal News service.)
Williamsmn, Mass., Nov. 11.-President
Wilson has made no ofncial announcement
concerning changes in his Cabinet, but
a reorganization is expected almost im
mediately by those who have been in
a position to follow Intimately the trend
ofrecent events.
TJMe President left here at 5:30 o'clock
this afternoon en route for Washington.
He expects to be at his desk in the White
House executive offlce on Monday morn
ing. The appointment of a tariff -com
mission, which must be bipartisan to
comply with Instructions from Congress,
will be the first work taken up.
When It comes to cabinet changes the
field of speculation is greatly widened.
It was reported during the last twenty
four hours that Vance C. McCormike.
chairman- of the Democratic National
Committee, would be made Secretary of
War.
The President in known to hold a high
opinion of Mr. McCormick, but he also
has a high opinion of Newton D. Baker,
the present Secretary of War.
Josephus Daniels is certain to remain.
This is due largely, it is snid, to a situ
ation not of the 'President's making.
On the return to Washington the Presi
dential party will leave the train at
Rhinecliff, N. Y., and board the May
flower. After a sail down the Hudson
Sunday morning Mr. and Mrs. Wilson
will land in New York City and complete
the journey by rail, leaving from the
Pennsylvania terminal at 3:34 p. m.
GROWS GHEER WlON
AS "CONQUERING HERO"
Mrs. Wilson Also Given Ovation When
TAn Stops.
iBy the Intermatieel News Service.)
Rhinecliff, N. Y., Nov. 11.-President
Wilson was greeted like a conquering hero
at the stations between Williamstown and
this point tonight. Here he boarded the
Naval Yacht Mayflower. At Troy and
Albany the crowds fought to get near
'he private car. Those who failed con
tented themselves by shouting the ap
provaI which the American public likes
so much'to give a winner.
l'ormer Gov. Martin H. Glynn. Pckey
McCabe and Congreasman-elect Lunn, of
Sehenectady. gained admittance to the
private car for a few minutes at Al
bany.
'Mra. Wilson appeared at the important
stops and was enthusiastically cheered.
Mr. Wilson made no speeches.
MANICURIST AL.GED THTRF.
Buffalo, Nov. 11.-The grand jury today
is considering evidence in- the charges of
shoplifting against Martha Kane. of El
mira, who has been working in Buffalo
as a manicurist for some time. It is
alleged the woman, who first s3id her
name was King, operating in conjunction
with a girl clerk in a local department
store, had been stealing goods for some
time and was arrested while in the act of
trying to get away with four women's
suits and a $75 coat.
EXPLOSION ETTmI THREE.
Norristown, Pa.. Nov. 11.-A gas ex
plosion at the Pottstown plant of the
Eastern Steel Company this morning
dropped a 500-pound manhead upon a
crew of workmen, killing three men
William McGinness, Daniel Schaeffer
and William Myers. There is little
hope for Daniel Bishop, foreman of the
men. Three other men were seriously
injur ed.
TOXBSTONE CRUSH BOY
York. Pa.. Nov. 11.-Playing in the
Freyville Cemetery While his mother
was at work in the church near by, 6
year-old George Stein was crushed un
der a tombstone today. His left thigh
is broken and he is hurt internally.
The child attempted to climb on the
stone, which tilted and fell upon him.
His cries brought his mother, who re
leased him.
TROOPS ECT must .
Columbia, S. -C.. Nov. 11--State author!
ties -tday, ordered out iye ommpaniiss of
Coest Artillery to preserve orer~ anda
sist In evicting striers from the cot
tages of the Gluick and luaxMills ati
Andereon, S. C., where disorder has run
riot the last few days.
Four mnore cormpessles of 'naval militia
were ordered held in readiness for an
emergency.
THIS SUEE GETB PATE.
Berlin. Nov. 11.-A letter regeved at
the German army headquatmr en
western front was addressed a feows:
spektorstelvertreter. rvat~
This monumnentsi wesd sismia.e eaa
lng Inspector of the field a
commlsa=s-lat department.
Warrisburg, Pag.,
amea a-enmensatIom
G/. P.MAY GET
HOUSE CONTROL
Line-up at Present Looks Like
216 to 211.
Indications last night were that the
Republicans would control the House of
RIepresentatives in the next Congress by
a bare sority of one. Chairman Woods,
of' the Republican Congressional Com
mittee. 1laims control by seven. The
election of a Democrat in New Mexico ia
conceded. It will require the returns frem
the soldier vote to determine the results
In the Thirtieth and Thirty-scend Penn
sylvania districts of Pittsburgh. On the
face of the returns a Republican Is
elected in the Thirtieth by the narrow
margin of 20. and defeated in the Thirty
second by 19 votes.
Eliminating both these Pennsylvania
districts and giving the Republicans six
In California and 10 in New Jersey tn.!
Republicans have a total of 216 votes.
Giving the Democrats the one membe,
from Delaware. although It is disputed
by Republican leaders, and five sure votes
In Pennsylvania the Democrats have a
total of 211.
The election of Britt in the Tenth North
Carolina district by 13 votes is reported.
and this district has been accepted as
Republican in the unofficial tabulation of
iaocers of the house. Republican leaders
hive been assured that Martin, the Prc
gressive Protectionist in Lostiana. w1:1
vote with them on organimstion. This
gives the Republicans a total of 212 votee,
just sufficient to control, the total mem
bership being 43
UIINER SOON TO DART
TO SEA ON IOME V1111'
DeutscHand Fully Provisioned and
Ready for Dash Toward Gennany
By DAMON RUNOUB.
(Iaternatieoai News service.)
New London. Conn., Nov. IL-There is
a well-defined Impression abroad here to
day that the German submarine. the
Deutschland, will get away early tomor
row morning. before sunrise. James Mc
Govern, collector of customs for Con
necticut, declared today that Capt. Paul
Koenig. master of the Deutschland, had
not yet asked for clearance.
This was after the closing of the cus
toms office. McGovern added, however.
that the Deutschland would be granted
clearance even after hours.
The Deutschland most have clearanos
papers before it can leave, but It can
choose its o time for departure after
getting cteirade. Around the berth of
the submarine this afternoon there was
an atmosphere of inactivity in amazing
contrast to the rush and bustle of the
past week.
For the first time some of the steve
doers brought from Baltimore were per
mitted to leave the stockade and go up
town. They said their work is completed.
Provisions of various kinds were taken
aboard the Deutschland this morning.
They were supplied by local dealers.
HUilHES SPENDS QUIET
DAY IN MITROPOLIS
Will Make No Statements Until After
Official Count in Doubtful States.
(By the Internatienal News Service.1
New York. Nov. 11.-Charles E. Hughes
spent another quiet day today. Iis only
caller gfas William R. Willcox, Repub
lican national chairman.
Later Mr. and Mrs. Hughes motored
to Coney Island. They made no stop at
the resort and they were not recognized.
Aft.r they returned to the Hotel Astor
Mrs. Hughes went out on Broadway alone
and took a long walk. also unrecoifnized.
In the evening they attdhded the per
formance of 'Polly Anna." They will re
main in the city over Sunday and on Nlon
day will probably go away to some near
by resort for rest. Mr. Hughes will make
no statements. until after the official
count In the doubtIul States.
SLEUTHS HAD SMARP EARS.
New York. Nov. 11.-A whispered con
versation. overheard by chance in the
subway yesterday morning by Detectives
Mayer and Broc n. caused them to fol
lo an elderly couple In their home. 43
nth street. The detectives forced
t r way in and began a search for
stolen goods. They found thirty fur-lined
coats under a bad in which the four
daughters of the couple were sleeping. a
silver toilet set engraved "C. I. I.," and
other articles which they believe were
stolen.
They arreated the couple. Ben min
Blpom and his wife, Ellen, and In Essex
Market Court yesterday both were held
in $.000 ball.
"BOUTOUNIZE lACK" BUSY.
Oyster Bay, LMg Tsland. Nbv. 11.
Thieves with an aesthetic taste raided
the exhibIts of the Oyster Bay flower
show, supposed to have been securely
locked in the firhouse Thureday night.
and made away with many of the prize
winning plants.
Among those to lose valuable flowers
were W. R. Coe .1. Stuart Blackton
and E. F. Whitney. The marauders
also took several huge exhibits of prize
vegetables.
New York, Nov. 11.-Ralph Albert Blake
lock, the artist, who was raessed from
the Middletown State Hospital for the
Insane on Septeinbee. S as a result of the
activities In his behalf of Mrs. Van
Rensselaer Adams, Is a patient In Dr.
Flavius Packer's private saitorlum near
Riverdale, N. Y.
710K CIRCUB 20 za.n.ASWEE,
Bloomingto., Ind., Nev. IL1.-Mank H.
Genty, of Gentry Brothee rse, was
sleeted t-te the Indiana isl eomar
pgqte returns showed today. sw~lbe
tha ret crou member. ,
5I011 MWg UgW AD
0F 10=0K 9s01r WONao
LAnn, Nov. IT Aearig to a sm
ber of one of the large wme's dubs.
IAndon shortly willi es women smokinl
pipes in public as many society wOmaS
already smoke ....n p1p1 in the seclusion
of their home. Towards ths class of the
sixteenth century a lae number Of
English women indupad freely in pipe
smokg. During thE seVenteenth ce
tury The fashion abated, owing to the in
troduction of snuff.
Leading tobacconist. confirm the fsac
that there is a. growing demand among
woman for milk eigara. This In his opin
ion Is a sure step theward pipe smoking.
WILLCOX HOPEFUL
Cites Fluctuating Califomia
Retums Let Election.
(my the Internatieaal News Servise.)
New York. Nov. 11.-A chronological
record of the unofficial count in Cali
fornia four years ago was made public
today by Chairman Wilicox to justify
the refusal of the national committee
formally to concede the re-election of
President Wilson.
This record shows that the exact re
ult was not known until December 4.
and from election n'r'ht until that day
there was a constant fluctuatlon of votes
between Roosevelt and Wilson.
This record was shown to Mr. Hughes
before it was given to the newspalera
It In said that it *conecderably cheered'
the Republican candidat.. He had beer
urging Chairman Will ox to concede the
election.
Chairman Willcox said:
"The record of Califorwa in 191! shown
that Mr. Wilson was fr't in the lead;
that subsequently this 1. ad was taken
by Col Rooseveit and that finally the
delegation to the electoral college frorm
California was divided. two electb,
being for Mr. Wilson and eleven for
Col. Roosevelt.
"The result, given en California in 1912
show precisely why the Republican Na
tional Committee cannot at this time
concede the election of Mr. Wilson and
must await the official count in this and
other States.
GHOST MERELY GERMAN
STUCK IN VENTLATOR
Mystery Ship in Port with Weird Tales
of Sea Adventure.
(my the Internatioal iNews Servie.)
New York, Nov. 1L.-Wen with mys
tery, the steamer Kristianiafjord. of the
Norwegian American line, reached port
today alter an eleven-day voyage frorm
Bergen. The passengers got their irst
inkling of the mystery when Capt. S. C
Hiortdahl received the British olcials
at Kirkwall. November .
After 56 sacks of mail had been taken
off, the Britishers. who seemed to have
received advance Information, found a
small. innocent-looking handbag. It was
whispered that it contained American se.
curitles ofenormous value; that in some
unexplained way It had left German)
without escort and had deposited itself
In the most conspicuous place in the bag
gage hold.
More mystery developed when stewards
reported a ghost in the galley on Thurn,
day night. Searching parties were or
ganized, but It was not until Friday the
ghost was laid. He proved to be Arnold
von Tulen. a 27-year-old German surgeont
He was found in the galley ventilator
For thirteen days he had rested on a
narrow projection Inside the ventilator
at an altitude of about 4 feet from the
galley floor. To relieve the monotony
of evoyage under such circumstances the
surgeon nightly descended to the galley
where he helped himself to food and
water. In searching the ship at Kirk.
wall the British forgot the ventilator.
SE MOVIES; GOES TO CELL.
Birmingham, Ala., Nov. 11.-Tyree Tay
for. 40 years old, Is spending a year and
a month in the Atlanta penitentiary. He
was committed a few days ago. but he
went there happy. The United States
marshal who took charge of him in Ten
nessee passed through Birmingham and
while here took his prisoner to a motion
picture show. It was the first time the
moonshiner had ever been In a large city
and the first time he had ever seen mov
Ing pictures.
STIFFEE FOREIGN POLICY SEEN.
London. Nov. 11.-British newspapers in
commenting today upon the re-election
of President Wilson. attribute his suc
cess to the great prosperity now prevalent
in the United States. It is believed Ir.
some quarters that, with the scheme of
American naval expansion under way, the
foreign policy of President Wilson's see
ond term will be much stiffer than that
of his first. It Is believed here that the
re-election of Mr. Wilson will in no way
affect Germany's submarine policy.
ADIM MM CHEC BUD.
New York. Nov. 11.-Mrs. Helen 3. Bar
ney. 38 years old, a raduate of Iowa Uni
versity and granddaughter of Gen. Har
ney, a soldier of the civil war, pleaded
guilty yesterday in Special sessions te
having Cashed a worthless check for 80
at the Cumberland Hotel.
She promised to pay the money back.
Several persons appeared tn court te
ask clemency for her and Justice Uslmon
heeded the request and put her em pro..
bation for one year.
G1'1KAJY WARNS GkEECE.
London. Nov. 11.-. mayhas warned
Greece not to furnish the allies with any
more war materials. A dispatch front
Athens today says that Cunt von Mir
bach, German miniter to Greecee, has ten
dared a note to the Greek foreign offlee
saying that the handing over af Greek
guns and risles to the estente forces
would be regarded as an unfriendly act
DIAE TAKRR TEUTEPEC.
,Pensacla, Nb., Nov. BI.-Meriea= forceg
lnder GemL FaME Dies have captured
Teha"s*eme ta e ineeing ann.
Gnu, says a wselart 'seedved mm
the gonschmt stisSare0 tody. Mest
ettles ase in the' stgae at Omns. Oahe
feros V ~a are *S.atin 6a due guN
at 4kof Gaas e.
JOHNSON FLAYS
OLD GUARD F e
BEATING HUGHES
California Governor and Sen
of Trechery.
IGEN. OT DRAWS F
PM ee-M Ac d fr RahU g Om.
OW .& ead "Elect
i..wa..
4 By the Eternational News
San Francisco, Cal.. Nov.
Hiram Johnson, California's.new UnW
States Senator, today for ie first t
since the election issued a statement op
the outcomea of tne national iection a
President Wilson's victory in Cafiferuin
I He slashcs ham at the Old Guariam
on the Republican State Central Cm t
tee. and in answer to Gen. Harrison Gray
Otis' charge of Johnsonian treacbst.
printed 'n I he Los Ans Tirnes. ace
Otis of Itrymg 'o "crutt:.fsh the sits.
lion'' to hide aIt Johnson declares is
his own responei:,:lity for iuzhes' de
feat in Calitornia. ie calls Otis a "jour
nalistic ghoul.
Says Californians Know Truth.
"Califorman.. kncw full well what lost
this State to Hught.' sys the gover
nor. referring to the slight ariven the
Progressives by li.:hes on his visit here
in August.
He continues
"They not on;. affrnted Progresaires
and Ignored P~r.resive leaders. but
igu a i;t ,Id its recorr of Pro
gressive humanitarian legislation, a
great commonwealth that had brokea its
Political chains and escaped forever from
Political bondage"
ne stoutly maintains that he did his
best for Hughes; that his efforts were
belittled by the old line leaders; that
the latter caused Caltfornians to identify
Hughes with reactionary politics. com
pares Wilson's victories In certain dis
tricts with the victories of Republican
candidates for minor offices and con
cludes with this 42-centimeter abell.
"If California has been the deciding
factor in this election. William it. crock
er, Francis V. Keesling. larrisn Gray
Otis and the few acting in concert With
them have the proud diwtirnaito. of hav
ing made a President of the tnited
States, and Woodrow Wileon owes them
a debt that he never can repa.''
Atta-a Newspapess.
Part of the statement faelvws:
"The Los Angeles Times this morning
makes one of its characteristic foul as
saults replete with the usual Times false
hoods. When all loyal supporters of Mr
Hughes In California are strainig every
nerve In watching and guarding his in
terest, only a journalistic ghoul like the
Times would setse this particular tin:
for exploiting its malio and mendactty.
A few petty potiticians acting with the
Los Angeles Times, and one or two
others, so misused Mr. Hughes and his
visit to California that they were unable
to undo the injury.
'When Mr. Hughes came into our State
Crocker and Keesling. aided and a betted
by the Times and a small coterie. created
a situation in which they made it appear
that Mr. Hughes was entirely reactien
ary. and that he was neither in accord
with ror in sympathy with Califorias
progress and ac'ievement.
"These little politicians. doing their lit
tle politics, preferred the.gratifleatien of
their malice and the momentary triumnh
of their prejudice to the success of the
Republican Presidential candidate."
"7hiHES WNS;" BURNS
MSE; "LOSES;" ASHES
Son of B. & 0. President Holds Pre
mature Celebration.
(BY the Intensatiemal News 4eurvike.)
Wirted. Conn.. Nov, 31.-Harold .
Willard, son of Daniel dillard. president
of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. r,
marked on election day that if Hughes
I were successful he would give an e*14
dwelling house on his farm In Soliburv
as fuel for a celebration. Late Tues V
night when the returns indicated the eee
tion of Hughes. jubilant Republican -
went to t4 Willard place. and Willa'I
kept his wrd.
The reflection from the blase was vis
Ible fo- miles; persons living at a distance
Inquired by telephone whose property we,
burning. "Hughes is elected. and Wit
lard's burning up his old house in homor
of the Republican success." they were
informed.
As smoke was still rising from the
ruins and curling about the chimner
which alone marks the sceg of th=
great Republican celebration, joy turned
Ito sorrow when word was received that
Ithe election result was in doubt with
chances favoring Wilson's success.
WOMAN m $10,000 RBEY.
Mount Vernon, N. Y.. Nov. lI.-Burgre,
one a woman, robbed the residence ot
R. L. Oannon, 294 North Columbus ave
nue, and escaped with jewels valusd at
110,00. The burglary was disoovered whem
Mr. and Mrs. annon, who had been away
several days. returned homme.
Ev7E article of jewelry which Mrg.
Gannon kept in her homen was gone, ee
a colsar with a license tag being inah.
fromt her pet Airdale, which had bem
left in the kitchn.
SURI 101 16 WAGR,
Philadelphia, Nov. IL.-A S16 law s
betwee a 5aloon keeper' and a bmrtemiw
Is causing the Oenmon Ping. Oiort tm
,and trouble. The dispute invalve the
'question of whether WIlliam MoP..k,
Who keep. a siioon,-shall pay Charte. J.
Brassier, a former employ., for a Ove
iday vacation for July.
i Te trouble bega wham .%mder yn.
mind the s main eama tham in
ajnsrs----.~e
1ev. 11.-Te smm.w.
