Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
izqna; republican
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
3WEN XT-SEVENTH YFJLB
32 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, NO VEMBER 12, 1916
PAGES
Oil
VOL. XXVII., NO. 177
THE
A
R
VIOLENT FIGHTING' IS
IN PROGRESS ON EAST
AND WEST WAR FRONTS
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Violent fighting is again in progress at various points on the eastern
and western fronts, but no great cnange in ine positions ot e opposmg
armies has yet been reported.
General Haig's men in an attack in the Thiepval-Courcelette area, Lon-
don relates, have taken 1,000 yards of the Regina trench. Another portion of
this trench was taken October 21. Berlin says that only a small portion of
an advanced trencn was emerea.
Crown Prince Rupprecht failed in a n attack against the French lines in
the neighborhood of Deniecourt, south of the Somme, Paris records. Berlin
states that a French attack in the Sa illy-Saillisel sector was repulsed, in
aerial combats on the western front, the Germans brought down ten entente
airplanes and the French put five German machines out of action.
Petrograd says that parts of trenches near Skrobowa, northeast of Bar
anovichi, taken by the Germans, have been recaptured by the Russians, but
Berlin asserts that all attacks in that sector were repulsed. On the Nara
yuvka front the Germans entered a Russian position, Berlin claims, and held
it against five counter attacks. Petrograd, however, says that German at
tacks in this region were repulsed.
The Russian and Rumanian advance in Dobrudja toward the Tcherna
voda Constanza railway line continues. Petrograd reports that occupation
of two more towns along the Danube between Hirsova, and Tchernavoda. A
belated official report from Sofia admits entente successes, but Berlin con
tinues to report no change in the area under Field Marshal von Macken
sen's control. Unofficially it Is reported that von Mackensen has been
driven back to the railway line.
Both the Austro-Germans and Rumanians claim successes along the
Transylvanian-Rumanian frontier. South of Predeal, Berlin records an ad
vance for Archduke Charles, while Bucharest claims the capture of a trench
near Dragoslavle and of Mount Frurtzile on the left bank of the Alt river.
Official reports indicate a renewal of activity on the Macedonian front
in the area north of the river Cerna. In the region south of Polog, Berlin
says, the entente troops have gained some ground. Except for a small
Italian advance on the Carso, there has been no activity of moment on the
Austro-Italian front.
French Statement.
TARIS, Nov. 11 (via London. Nov.
12.) The official statement issued to
night reads:
"We delivered this afternoon a sharp
uttack on the village of Saillisel. a
greater part of which were recaptured.
"South of the Somme an attempt by
4l-. f 'nrm-in qiimt nn.tuiuitinn c, tilth
.,....., """
of Pressoire was repulsed. The ar
tillery duel continues.
"Between 10 and 11 o'clock of No
vember 10. a group of seventeen Brit
ish aeroplanes bombarded the steel
works at Focklinccji. One thousand
kikimetergrams of projectiles were
dropped on the buildings, which were
damaged seriously.
Three enemy machines were felled.
On the following night eight of our
aeroplanes executed a fresh bombard
ment of these works. Several fires were
observed. All our machines returned
safely.
"During the night of November 10
11 our squadrons drenched with pro
jectiles the stations of Ham. SL Quen
tin, Tergnier and Nesle, in the Somme
region, and the airdrome, a Dresuse.
the blast furnaces at Rosmbach, the
airplane sheds of Frescati and the
blast furnace of Hagondange. These
operations caused great damage and
several explosions and fires were ob
served. "A German airplane during the night
of November 10-11 bombarded wverarthVwbth
French towns Nancv and I nneville T Vi. ' .,, 1 8 , ,Iorm tne
rrencn towns. ancy ana Lunevilie polish army that will consolidate vour
received projectiles which caused dam- new ... and llarantPP. ... interior
nee and casualties.
The onen town nf
ine open low n oi .
Amiens also was bombarded on sev
eral occasions during the game night.
Nine persons of the civilian population
were killed and twenty-seven Injured."
Russ Dreadnought Destroyed.
BERLIN, Nov. 11 (by wireless to
Sayville) Confirmation of the destruc
tion of the Russian dreadnough Im
peratritsa Maria is gtren in an official
report from - Bulgarian headquarters,
dated November 10, according to the
Overseas News Agency.
The Bulgarian statement says:
"A fireman of the Russian dread
nough Imperatritsa Maria, driven to
our coast, has confirmed the already
reported destruction of this dread
nought Imperatritsa Maria,' driven to
plosion near Sulina, or Feodossia is
land, at the mouth of the Danube."
The battleship Imperatritsa Maria
was launched in 1914. Her displace
ment was 22,500 tons and her comple
ment numbered about 1 000 men
Reoreser.tatives of the Irairiie of the !
Polish commonwealth today forwarded ;
to Emperor William through the gov
ernor general, a telegram expressing
thanks for the proclamation of the
Polish kingdom which is described as
a guarantee of the fulfillment of the
most ardent national ambitions of the
Poles.
"We recognize that confidence re
posed in and answer it with equal
confidence," says the telegram. "We
relieve and hope that the promises In
the proclamation will te fulfilled and
we are determined to give our prop
erty and lives to develop the kingdom
of Poland at the side of our liberators
as an Independent and powerful state."
An Austro-German proclamation to
t'e Poles, calling upon them to volun-1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
LONDON, Nov. 11. The crew of the
American steamship Columbian, re
ported sunk off the Spanish coast, has
arrived at Corunna, Spain, in life
boats, says a Reuter's dispatch from
Madrid.
is It Change of Policy?
WASHINGTON, Nov. 11. The case
of the American steamer Columbian,
reported sunk off the Spanish coast,
will be laid before President Wilson
by the state department early next
week as part of a general summary of
recent submarine operations, construed
by some officials as forecasting a radi
cal change in the German policy.
Information regarding the Columbian
was so incomplete tonight that no of
ficial would predict what part the
case might play in final determination
of this government's course. . Late in
the day the American consul at Bal
boa, forwarded the report that the ves
sel had been sunk 30 miles off Cape
Ortegal and her crew saved, but no
details were given. The dispatch im
mediately was called to the attention of
Secretary Lansing.
Points to be cleared up before a de
cision is reached Involves the ques
tions of whether the vessel was fired
on without warning, whether she oar
ried contraband, and whether she at-
tempted to escape. The report receiv-!
ed several days ago by that the Colum
bian was being shelled by a submarine
led many officials to believe that she
B STEAMSHIP CREW
I,
le-r for ti e new PolL-h army, which l
will serve in intimate association Willi
the armies of the Central powers, has ,
neen piiimsneu at Warsaw and lud-
lin. The text of the r rorlumation,
which is signed bv (iovernor General
Reso'er and Genera! Kuka, is quoted
t.r t Vna f Ht.ii'unLi j Voil-o iirnili v no
-. v.won.-, . .t a . . n J
follow
"The rulers of the allied powers of
Austro-Hunearv and Germany have
Riven notificalion of their resolution
to form the Polish land delivered from
Russian tyranny the new autonomous
kingdom of Poland, lour most ardent
desire, entertained in vain during more
than a century is thus fulfilled.
, "The importance and danger of this
wartime and regard for our army's
standing before the enemy, oblige us for
the present to keep the administration
of your new state still in our hands.
Readily, however, we will give, with
your aid. to the new Poland those pub
lic institutions which guarantee her
consolidation, development and safety.
Of these the Polish army is the most
important.
"The struggle with Russia is not yet
determined. You desire to join it.
Therefore step to our sides as volun
teers in order to help complete our vie
tories over your oppressor. Bravely
and with high distinction, your brothers
j1 6 .' luurt"1
j . 1
an(j exterior securitv.
ou shall protect your country; un- v;hjc,, na1 ()Pn in proIfre,s for ;l
der your own colors and flag cherished eek between him and Prinz Hatz
by you above all. W e know your cour- feldt. counsellor cf the German im
age and your ardent patriotism and bassy Ginves Is said to have come to
call you to arms at our side. Rise you Washington kirt week and called at
valiant men, and follow the example set th ,(,.,,,.,.
k., u,..,,.A tu..v, t t i 111 emuasf-.
, u.c u . ic i uiu jswii iiiu in cum-
mon work with the German and Aus
trian armies and lay the foundation tor
a Polish army, reviving the glorious
traditions of your war history by the
faith and bravery of your warriors."
o
WIRELESS TO JAPAN
TPepubliran A. P. Leased Wire
TOKIO, Nov. 11. Direct communi
cation between Japan and San 1'ran
fisco by wireless will be opened to
theT''blic November 18. it is officially
announced. Tests have been made
recently of the system and they have
proved satisfactory.
Messages be-
twecn Japtin and t!v
United Statei
have heretofore been relayed at Hono
lulu. SOCIALIST SHERIFF CHOSEN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TONOPAH. Nev., Nov. 11. For the
first time in the history of Nevada, If
not in the west, a sheriff candidate on
the socialist ticket has been elected
to office. W. H. Romas of this city
was chosen by the voters of Nye
county for the office of sheriff and
assessor in last Tuesday's election,
according to practically complete re-
turns.
AIIVES IN LIFEBOATS
I York that he would present himself
I later in the day. Prince Hatzfeldt
put $3,000 Into an envelope, and, with
probably was running away, thereby two agents of the department of jus
sacrificing her immunity from attack, tice, went to his home here to await
If she carried contraband and was Graves. He failed to make his ap
properly warned, the case may re- pear:tnce, however.
solve itself into a question of in- I This morning Graves culled at the
demnity. ; embassy end requested an appoint-
All available facts regarding the Co- ment with Prince Hatzfeldt at his
lumhian will be collected as soon as home. A few hours later he arrived
possible. Information in the cases of thre and conversed with the counsel
the Manna, Arabia and Lanao also is lor for half an hour. One federal
still incomplete, but every report re- agent was hiding behind -a door In
ceived so far regarding these vessels the room. Another was in the street
win ne piacea oetore the president as
soon as he returns to his desk at the
vv nite House.
Seven Steamships Reported
Sunk By German Submarines
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Nov 11 Thi r.r
sinking of three steamships, two Brit
ish and ono Danish, and confirmation
of the sinking of the British steamer
Bogota, is made in an announcement
issued by Lloyd's tonight. The Bogota,
the shipping agency said last night was
believed to have been sunk. The agen
cy now reports that seventeen of the
crew of the Bogota have been picked
hi and that two boats are unaccounted
ior.
Thinks Grouping
Of Electors Is
Unconstitutional,
Republican A.- P. Leased Wire
R1SBEE, Ariz., Nov. 11. M. E. Cas
sidy, Arizona chairman of the finance
committee of the republican national
committee, today brought to the atten
tion of the latter organization the pos-
sibility tnat the manner in which the
presidential electors had been voted for
wag unconstitutional
,n Arizona all of the eiectors are
bracketed and the voter must cast his
ballot for all or none. He cannot make
a choice between the electors. On this
feature the Arizona man believes the
Wilson vote in Arizona may be de
clared void.
aliegeTspi
F
OF
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Nov. 11. Karl
Armgaid Graes, a (-elf-styled intor
r.ationai spy and magazine writer,
was arrested here torlav bv airentx ot
- jie department of justice and charged
With attempting to extort $3.0i'0 from
Countess von Bcrnstorff, wife of the
German ambassador ty threatening
to publish letters "alleged to cont.iin
matter showing her infirmities end
failings."
"Officials of the embassy also al
lege p.at Craves had in his possession
what apparently were confidential
coded dipiomrtti.' dispatches from tie
German government to Count von
Bcrnstorff. 't he prisoner told the fed-
Pr;il
agents he oo'.ained all tile do u-
ments from persons who smuggled
thi!n past the P.ritis.i tensors on tiie
steamship Osur 11. The warrant upon
which he was anaicned tonight and
held on J2.0HO bail for a further hear
ing, chars-'ed him also with b. inging
into the piistrict of Columbia Mleis,
stolen in Hoikch, N. J., where the
Oscar II cocks.
In a Matermnt after his arraign
ment ;.t wri h he entered a plea of
not guilty, Graves asserted that he
had no intention of blackmailing the
(ountess, that he objected to the us;
of the word blackmail, and that the
parers he nad in his possession were
purely "diplomatic" in character.
Much interest was erousel in ofTi-
cial quarters at the. Indirect exposure
ot Ue manner in which persons and
oflicials in Germany Epp.uentlv are
tt.b-T.misn cen.orsmp in
communicating with the German ein-
k ,,sv her
ul -I?' .. .. .. ,
L llr mM oi c.iraes lurnis.lto. a
.- ,.. .-. ...
Ho wrls bni'n tlf.ro tin mm
v ho had published w idely uTiist ne
alleged to be important secrets of the
German war office and the Hohenzol
Ierns. He also was known as a man
n ho previously had describe 1 himself
ps a member of the German secret
service and Inter as an employe in
foreign fields of the British foreign
office. "The master spy" "he called
himself.
Officials allege that up n entering
the office of Prince HMzfeld, he m ule
it known that he had in his po?ession
til-?' papers which . brought ar.out his
anrst today. One letter whijh he ex
hibited was to Countess von Bern-
storff from her eon, an officer in the
German army. He said, aocoridng to
statements made by federal officials
tonight, that he had other letters that
, would prove "embarrassing" fi r the
i countess should they he published.
The official dispatches were said to
, 1 e useless to him for the reason that
; he could not decipher them. eH Is
alleged to have csked W $3,000 In
:ash If he delivered the paper. He
also I-', alleged to have asksd Prince
Ilatzfeld to nrepare and s-ign a state
ment that the money had been paid
for services rendered the German gov
ernment. Embassy officials said Giaves
threatened to turn over some of the
documents to White House officials
if the $3,000 were not forthcoming.
I Officials of the embassy were con
vinced that the letters had been ob
tained in some manner from a confi
'rtentl.il messenger, whose identity still
"s undisclosed. Federal officials rie-
clare Graves gave Prince Hatzfeldt a
certain time wMthin which he was to
'comply with his conditions.
I Prince Hatzfelot communicated with
'the district attorney's office here as
soon as Craves left his office. Anoth.
er meeting was arranged and yester
:day Graves telegraphed from New
outside. A police detective was near-
(Continued on Page Two)
i The British steamers Marga and
Earl of Forfar are reported lost, and
the Danish steamship Freja has been
sunk by a German submarine.
i The loss of three Norwegian steamers
is reported in a P.euter dispatch. The
Norwegian steamer Tripol is said to
have been sunk hy a submarine while
the steamers Baltimore and Fordalen
were torpedoed. Thirty-six of the crew
. of the Trlpel are reported to have been
saved and the crews of the Baltimore
jand Fordalen have been landed.
MOHAVE
CALIFORNIA IS
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Nov. 11. A statement
showing the fluctuation of the lead
between. President Wilson and Colo
nel Roosevelt in California in 1912,
from day to day for a month aftev
election, and how the state final'y
went in favor of Roosevelt after Wil
son was first credited with winning,
wns issued here to.iav by Chairman
W:!li;:m It- Willccx of the republican
national committee, to "show precisely
whv the republican national commit
tee cannot, at this time, concede the
election of Mr. Wilson and must awa't
the official count in this and other
states."
"The reci-rd shows," Mr. Willcox-i;
statement read, "that Mr. Wilson was
first in the load; that subsequently'
this lea". was (alien bv Colonpl Roose
velt, ard that finally the delegation
to the electoral college from Cali
fornia was divided, two electors being
for Mr. WiWon and eleven for Colo
nel Roosevelt.
"The filF f th" S-in Francisco
Chronicle ohow the following:
"On Wednesday. November S. the
day after clction Ui 1M12, the Chroni
cle said the Indications were that Mr.
Wilson had '. safe plurality over
Colonel f:ooseve!t. The democratic
state chairman claimed the state bv
20,000
"On November 7. the Chronicle said
th::t & storm had delayed reports, and
th;it no figures wre available from
four count es. Returns from KfiSX
precincts out of 4'i72 gave Mr. Wil
son a le'id of tT'l.
"On November X, the Associated
Press announced that Colonel Roose
velt was in the lead by 130 votes. Six
chaiv-es hid neon made in the vote
frt-m Los Angeles in the previous
twele hours, each change increasing
the lend of Colonel Roosevelt. With
three Los Angeles precincts out and
L'B preein"ts elsewhere, in the state
out, the Wilson vote stood at 280, U5
and the P.oosi-velt vote 2M,25.,".
The collapse of the Wilson plural
ity was due to the way election fig
ores in I.',s Angeles had been com
piled. "The democratic county chairman
Placed the'Roosevelt majority in that
count v- at about 13.000.
"The clerk of the county was ap
pealed to Aiy political idr for an"
accurate count. He made a semi
f.fiiiiai tabulation of the returns,
which showed startling discrepancies
from the results obtained unofficially
by political headquarters and news
l apcrs. Much of the discrepancy was
due to the scratching of Wallace, who
hr'ided the progressive electors.
"On November 9, returns compiled
from 42H3 precincts out uf4372 gave
Colonel Roosevelt 281,497 and Mr. Wil
son S0.S43.
"On November 13. returns from all
but five out of 4372 precincts gave
Colonel Roosevelt the state by twenty
four votes.
"On November 17, it was announced
that Secretary of Stale Jordan went to
Los Angeles to take personal charge of
the count.
"On November 24, it was announced
that the district court of appeals in
Los Angeles had thrown out one pre
cinct, which had given Colonel Roose
velt a majority of 104.
On December 4, the Chronicle an
nounced that, "if there were no more
changes due to court decisions and to
the auditing by the secretary of state
there would be, according to the of
ficial count, two democratic electors
and eleven progressives. A change of
ten votes would elect another demo
crat, it was said."
Mr. Willcox had a conference with
Charles E. Hughes today, during which
the situation was discussed. No an
nouncement came from Mr. Hughes in
regard to his own plans. Mr. Willcox
said afterward, that he and, he thought
Mr. Hughes, would remain hre until
the first of next week. He said he
did not expect official counts from the
doubtful states to begin coming in be
fore then, and that it would be more
than a week at least, before they were
complete. He would not venture a
guess on how much longer than that
it might take.
Guardsmen for Hughes.
ST. PAUL, Minn., Nov. 11. Gover
nor Hughes' plurality was slightly in
creased today when the first results
of the Minnesota guardsmen was an
nounced. Complete vote of Hennepin's
members of the First regiment was 243
for Wilson and 293 for Hughes. Ram
sey complete gave 137 for Wilson and
116 for Hughes. Washington county:
Wilson, 23; Hughes, 9. This tonight
made the w4tle vote for 3,021 pre
cincts, Wilson,, 178,544, and Hughes,
178.792, giving Hughes a plurality
of 248.
There are two regiments to hear from
(Continued on Page Two;
o
Transfusions of
Blood To Save
Mrs. Boissevain
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS ANGELES, Nov. 11. A third
transfusion of blood was made today
to strengthen Mrs. Inez Milholland
Boissevain of New York, who is crit
ically ill at a hospital here. Hospital
authorities said she had an even
chance for recovery. It was said it
would be several days before a de
termining change conld.be expected.
Mrs. Boissevain was said to be suf
fering from extreme anemia, coupled
with throat trouble. She collapsed
here several days ago in an audito
rium where she want to deliver a suf
frage address, but insisted on speak
ing. Blood for the two transfusions was
taken from a sister, who accompanied
her on her speaking tour, and from
her hueband. Eugene Boissevain. who
was called here when the seriousness
of her condition became known.
ITC1CEDE0
er i. WILLGOX
AND
COCHISE ADD HUNT VOTES
NO CLEARANCE FOR
THE DEUTSCHLAND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ,
NKW LONDON, Conn.. Nov. 11.
No clearance papers had been issued
to Captain Paul.Koer.ig of the Ger
man commercial submarine Deutsch
land tonight and none will be issued
tomoiro'.v, according to Joseph O.
Comstor-k, denutv collector of customs
here. Mnm.xrs of the vessel's crew
in the city on shore leave said also
that thHr vessel would not leave port
tonight or Sunday.
Two men were s t work on the ves
sel's engines today, unj the delay in
siuiir.g is said to le due to the fact
that ihe machinery has not yet been
finally overhauled. However, the
Deutschlanri. it was learned, has al
ready submerged fo.ir times, and to
day was again put through a full test
bv Captain Kcenig. who has not left
his vessel since Thuisday night.
Ei,,'ht mail t.ic:;s. containing, ac
cording to Vice-Presid nt Paul G.
Hilkcn of the Eastern- Forwarding
company, maii fiom the German em
bassy, arrived from Washington to
night, in charge of two members of
the em.CTssy staff, and were conveyed
to th lto-jts'rhland.
TO THE SOUTH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY, Nov. 11. Villa
now is somewhere on the northern bor
der of the state of Durango, Mexico,
south and west of the Carranza army
sent north to capture him and his fol
lowers, according to reports reaching
the American members of the Mexican
American joint commission.
These reports stated that while the
Carranza army was moving northward
through Escalon, Villa was avoiding a
clash there by moving his forces south
ward from Parral through mountain
trails toward Durango state.
iTogress of the campaign in the
northern vnXX of Mexico was discussed
again todav by the commissioners but
there was nothing to indicate they had
reached a point where an agreement
was possible.
De La Rosa Executed
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Nov. 11.
Louis De La Rosa, alleged leader of
bandit raids in this section of Texas a
year ago, has been executed in ftie
prison on Monterey, Mexico, according
to unofficial reports tonight.
De La Rosa last June operated near
the Texas border with about 400 fol
lowers. To Abolish Vice-Governor
DOCGLAS. Nov. 11. Adolfo de La
Huerta. governor of Sonora, has de
creed the abolishment of the office of
vice-governor, because he says it has
led to plotting and schemes to unseat
the governor. The decree says if the
governor is called out of the state for
any reason, the legislature shall re
solve itself Into an electoral college to
choose a governor ad interim.
The decree further prohibits the gov
ernor, secretary of state or state treas
urer trom becoming candidates tor tne
VILLI mIS A
CLASH BV HE
governorship of Sonora unless they re- a train in New York at 3:34 p. m. to
sign office at least three months before ! morrowk.
the constitutional elections. This clause, j
well informed Mexicans say, wtll pro- English Papers Silent
hibit any of the present office holders LONDON. Nov. 11. Newspapers in
from becoming candidates, as the state i England that rejoiced over President
election is expected to be held in Jan-1 Wilson's defeat when it was prema-
! uary.
I. Holguin. federal stamp tax collec
tor in Agua Priet.i. is being sought by
the authorities on both sides of the in
ternational boundary because of an al
leged shortage of approximately $6100
in his funds. He was last seen ten
days ago when he purchased on auto
mobile and left Agua Prieta for Ari
zona, it was stated today.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Tex., Nov. 11. When the
150 Carranza custom guards were dis
armed in Juarez today, the arms were
also taken from the garrison of thirty
Carranza regular soldiers at Guadalupe
thirty miles southeast of Juarez, like
wise because of suspected disloyalty to
the constitutionalist government, it was
learned here tonight.
The customs guards are a body of
picked men, considered here to be up
to the standard of the famous rurales
of the Diaz regime. They and the sol
diers received from the officers no ex
planation for their disarmament, it is
reliably stated. All were allowed to go
at large.
When the new detachment of sol
diers marched to Guadalupe to relieve
'the garrison there. American wit
I nesses on the north side of the river
assumed there had been a Villa upris
' in? and spread a rumor to this ef fect.
; Carranza officials reply that the dis
! armament was accomplished without
resistance of any kind.
min Brahan, one of General Pershing s
scouts held in Juarez as a v ilia spy
was taken up w ith General Bell tonight
by Andres Garcia, inspector general of
I Mexican consulates, who arrived late
: today from an official trip to Washlng
j ton and New York. Mr. Garcia said
that he was examining the evidence
against Branhan, who is alleged to
have held a commission in Villa's army,
adding that if no case was found, the
scout would be immediately released.
The same course, he said would be
1
Captain Koenig was questioned to
day concerning the battle of May 31,
off the Skaggerak. He was in Wil
hemshaven when the German battle
ships came back from this engage
ment. The captain repeated again tho
recital of German losses. He said the
battleship Pommcrn had gone down:
that the Lutzow, a battle cruiser, had
been sunk by ore of the German de
stroyers to keep her from failing into
the hanls of the British; the Rustok
sank on the way backAo poii, and the
Elving was lost as a resujt of a col
lision within the German lines. These
and five torpedo boats constituted the
German losses, Captain Koenig de
clared. He described the arrival of the Ger
man hips at Wilhemshaven as a very
impressive sight. Some, of course,
were more or less damaged, he said,
but before he left for America on his
last trip all were ready for action
again.
Rumors were current tonight that
German naval submarines U-57 and
lT-59 might be expected here at any
time to act as convoys for the
Peutschlan.l.
OVATIONS FOR
WILSON ON WAY
BACKTD CAPITAL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ON BOARD PRESIDENT WILSON'S
SPECIAL, ALBANY, N. Y., Nov. 11.
President Wilson, returning to Wash
ington for the first time in two months,
tonight witnessed a demonstration at
Troy and Albany in celebration of the
outcome of the election. Taking for
granted that he had been re-elected,
the crowds at both places cheered him
again and again. The president laughed
and smiled and thanked them for their
congratulations.
Here at Albany a procession, includ
ing bands, was arranged in his honor.
The railroad station was crowded and
many persons rushed forward to shake
I-yesident Wilson's hand. Former Gov
ernor Glynn of New York, who was
temporary chairman of the St. Louis
convention, that nominated' the presi
dent, was at the station with other
democrat leaders.
As President Wilson's train rolled in
to Albany, torpedoes were exploded on
the tracks and whistles shrieked. For
a moment the president Held his hands
to his ears. Earlier in the day he had
asked that no elaborate celebration in
his honor be held at the station. Be
fore the president arrived the crowd
had paraded through the business sec
j tion of the city. Preaident Wilson shook
hands with many persons at Troy.
1 "We're with you for four more years
' of peace and prosperity," shouted one
' man.
"Thank yon." replied the presideat.
"How's Bp. by Sayre?". asked another.
"Fine." responded President Wilson.
One man leaped on the observation
platform beside the president and led
the cheering.
The president is due to arrive in
Washington tomorrow night after a
trip down the Hudson river from
Rhinecliff. N. Y., to New York on the
naval yacni .wayriower.
He is to board
turely announced now are silent. Olh-
ers, which awaited definite results of
the election, in their comment, ex
pressed the conviction that a more vig
orous foreign policy may be expected
from Washington now that the election
is over.
The Globe, expressing the opinion
(Continued on Page Two":
ARE DISARMED AT JUAREZ
taken in regard to Joseph llliams. a
member of the Mormon colony at Co
Ionia Dublan. accused of having been
caught with stolen cattle. ' ,
A train arriving tonight at Juarez
from Chihuahua City, brought 350 pas
sengers, mostly of the peon class but no
American or foreign refugees, as was
expected here b" government officials.
None of the passengers crossed the in
ternational bridge tonight.
Swift and Railroads Are
Heavily Fined By Landis
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Nov. 11. A fine total
ing more than $171,000 was assessed
by Federal Judge Landis today against
Swift and Company, packers and a
number of railroads convicted of vio
lating the interstate commerce act In
j most of the cases the charges were re
bating or in shipping less than carload
shipments at carload rates.
Swift and Company were fined $60,
000; the Pennsylvania railroad, $20,000;
the Elgin. Joliet and Eastern railroad,
$20,000; the Pittsburg. Cincinnati, Chi
cago and St. Louis, $20,000 in one case
and $50,000 in another. In addition,
fines ranging from $100 to $1,000 were
assessed against the Chicago and
I '
STILL AHEAD
BY175V0TES
Cut down by the addition of about
150 votes for Hunt in more nearly
complete returns from Cochise and
Mohave counties. Tom Campbell's lead
remained in evidence at a late hour
last night. Santa Cruz county de
veloped the only other surprise of the
day by going into the republican
column by 11 votes. It had been re
ported even the day before.
Both republican and democratic
state committees continued to claim
the election yesterday. From demo
cratic quarters there emanated scores
of rumors and stories, and betting
continued right briskly, with much
Hunt money in sight at all times.
There is no record of the amount of
tne wagers, but it is said that every
nickel of democratic money was
i matched by a like sum dug up by
j republicans.
The swing of the majorities has
never lert the republican candidate in
doubt. Neither have unofficial, but
fairly reliable, reports left him with
less than a hundred majority. The
reports change almost hourly, as pre
cincts are reported, and it becomes
more and more difficult to sort out
the accurate and the rumored re
turns. Compiled with extreme care is
the following tabulation, not mate
rially changing, but rather supple
menting, the returns used by The Re
publican yesterday morning:
Hunt. Campbeil
Apache 67
Cochise
Coconino' . . .
Mohavo . . .
Navajo
Graham . .
Pinal
Yuma
Gila
Yavapai . .
Santa Cruz
Pima
Greenlee . . .
Maricopa .
47
646
204
56
. 419
.1704
40
11
339
3494
4266
4091
423
4091
Majoritv for Campbell 175
There is naturally a good deal of
talk on account of -the closeness of
the vote, of a recount, and that the
republican managers say they vould
face with confidence and the expec
tation of gaining 'hundreds of votes
I from a single source. The election
officers, following the strict letter of
the law, rejected in many precincts,
ir not in all of them, all ballots which
bore the cross at the head of a ticket
and at the same time a cross before
the name of a candidate on some
other ticket.
There were hundreds of such bal
lots cast by democrats who put the
erss at the head of the . democratic
ticket and another in the square op
posite the name of Thomas E. Camp
bell. This is a matter that has frequently
come before the courts and has
always been decided the same way
that the only thing to be determined
is the intent of the voter. Such a
ticket could not be called a. muti
lated tie-ket, nor could it be regarded,
as a ticket so marked as to disclose
the personality of the voter, and such
ballets have always been ordered on
a recount to be counted for all can
didates under the tquare at the ton
of the ticket except the one against
which the voter evidently intended
to vote bv putting a square in the
cross opposite the name of his op
pcJTient. Mohave's Latest Count
KINGMAN. Nov 11 In Mohave
county complete returns for governor
show Hunt, democrat, has a lead of
646 votes over Campbell, republican.
According to best advices from Phoe
nix, Hunt leads Campbell in -state by
156 votes.
Cochise Complete
DOl'GLAS. Nov. 11. Cochise
county complete, checked by returns,
givs Hunt 837 majority.
Governor and Candidate Meet
Governor Hunt and Tom Campbell
met for the first time since the opening
of the campaign last night, when their
paths crossed in front of the Elks the
ater, where each was entertained at a
box party.
The governor stood between Homer
Wood and Charles Roberts as the
Campbell party, including the candi
date's wife and two sons arrived in
the lobby. Mr. Campbell strode over
lajad shook hands with Mr. Wood. "Hel
lo Homer," he said. Turning to Mr.
Roberts, he said, "How do you do, sen
ator?" ' Then, as the governor remained si
lent, unmovlng, Mr. Campbell grasped
his hand. "Good evening. Governor.
How are you standing the strain?"
As the governor did not reply, Mr.
Campbell turned, bowed to the party
and escorted his wife into the theater,
where an ovation awaited him.
Northwestern railroad, the Indiana
Harbor Belt railroad and the Chicago,
Milwaukee and SL Paul. These fines
were in most instances for failure to
comply with the 28-hour cattle law.
which prohibits allowing live stock to
remain in freight cars more than 28
hours at a stretch without attention.
The Pennsylvania fine and the $20,
000 fine against the P. C. C. and St. L.
were for rebating to the W. H. Merritt
company, a Chicago board of trade
firm, while the $50,000 fine was for
rebating to B. A. Eckhart, head of the
Eckhart Milling company. Mr. Eck
hart was tried for the same offense
some time ago, but the case was
thrown out of court by Federal Judge
Anderson.
CAMPBELL
4
