1
Oil Field Road Mass Meeting Will Be Held Tuesday Night at the Court House. Be There
VOLUME TWENTY-FOUR.
ARDMORE, OKLA., SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1916.
NUMBER 31.
mm
!
NO CHANGE IN STANOING OF
WILSON IN ELECTORAL HUE
OFFICIAL VOTE OF MINNESOTA, NEW HAMPSHIRE AND
NEW MEXICO MAY NOT BE KNOWN BEFORE TUES
DAY OR WEDNESDAY OF NEXT WEEK.
Analaysis of the Presidential Vote by Democrats in California
said to Give Little Encouragement to Republican Claim
that Electoral Vote of the State will be Split Wilson Still
Leading in New Hampshire and New Mexico, While
Hughes Leads in Minnesota Looks Like Electoral Vote
Will be Two Hundred Seventy-Six for Wilson, Two Hun
dred Fifty-Five for Hughes "Bone Dry" Prohibition Car
ried in Oregon by More than Three Thousand Votes.
New York. Nov. 11. With
republican Chairman Wilcox
still awaiting the otlicial count
in the close states before con
ceding Hughes' defeat, the
latest returns in the close states
California. Minnesota, New
Mexico and New Hampsv
presented no change air ,
the president's majority ie
electoral 'college. ?
Hughes led in . sota,
and President VP ? ,x the
others, with but f districts
missing in each . j
The Presiden' ' Williams
port, Mass., wr . ported to be
chiefly concerneu now over the
complexion of the next con
gress, which is still in doubt.
The President's plurality in
the total popular vote on the
latest estimates was 403,312.
Wilson's total vote as reported
is 8,563,713, Hughes 8,100,401.
Hughes Lead Cut Down.
St. Paul, Minn., Nov. 11. The of
ficial count In Minnesota thin after
noon showed an error In the Ramsey
county vote, by which Wilson gains
.'S49 votes. The total now in .1.019
. of the 3,048 precincts of the state
i gives Wilson 178.007, Hughes 178,306.
i It Is not believed the. result will be
t materially changed. There Is consid-
1 erablo speculation rrgnrdlng the sol
' dier vote of 2.1:16. These votes will
he counted Tuesday.
EUROPE IPLEASED
WITH ELECT!
MANCHESTER GUARDIAN AT
TRIBUTES WILSON'S SUCCESS
TO PROGRESSIVE VOTE.
HAVE FAITH IK WILSON
Says Progressives Will Not Again
Support Progressive Candidate Un
less Wilson Confirms Their Faith
French Are Pleased.
i
Little Hope for Republicans.
Sun Francisco, Cat, Nov. 11. An
analysis of the presidential vote by
democrats today gives little encour
agement to the republican claim that
the electoral vote of California will
be split.
Wilson Has Small Lead.
Concord, X. II.. Nov. 1 1 President
Wilson's plurality Is C3 over 1 lushes
in Xew- Hampshire, according to certi
fied returns from all except one small
precinct, the secretary f state announced.
Lead of Two Thousand.
Santa Fe, X. M., Nov. 11 Wilson
led IliiKhes in unofficial returns of
Vw Mexico today by 2.1S4, with 29
scattered precincts missing.
"Bone Dry" Prohibition.
Portland. Ore., Nov. 11. The "bone
dry" prohibition amendment in this
state carried by more than three thousand.
London, Nov. 11. The Manchester
Guardian attributes Wilson's success
to the rallying of the progressive
'votes, which were cast for Roosevelt
in 1912, adding "The progressive move
ment has arisen entirely Independent
of foreign policies. Many progressive
votes were given to Wilson with a
mental reservation that they won't
again go to a democratic candidate un:
less Wilson confirms the faith of the
progressives by consolidating what is
still only tentative."
Pleases French Press.
Paris. Nov. II. The Petit Journal
says Wilson's reelection is satisfac
tory for two reasons, that for four
years the American foreign policy w ill
be free from all electoral considera
tion, since the constitution forlilds
Wilson seeking a third term; second,
that the result puts new life into Am
erican neutrality. Saying that evi
dently the immense, majority is pro
nounced against war, the paper adds
that the other millions voted for
Hughes because he demanded ail even
tinner defense of American rights.
SOLDIERS IN FRANCE CROSS RIVERS
BV MEANS OF THE AERIAL TROLLEY
w
I BRITISH CROSSING R ISlVCS IN FISfiMCE. O
I w ii
REPOHTED IN FOLE R ETR EAT
BULGARIAN POPULATION REPORTED FLEEING FROM
DOBRUDJA TO BULGARIA, ACCORDING TO AN OF
FICIAL LONDON STATEMENT ISSUED SATURDAY.
Berlin Reports Repulse of French and Serbian Attacks on Teu
tonic Position East of Monastir, with Heavy Losses Sev
eral Entrenched Rumanian Lines Taken at Point of Bayo
net on the Transylvanian Front. Says Berlin, Which also
Claims that Russian Attacks at Skrobowa Broke Down Un
der Heavy Losses, and Germans Claim to Have Penetrated
Main Russian Positions Southwest of Krasnoleskie Ger
man Trenches on One Thousand Yard Front Taken by
British on Somme.
VIL LA REPORTED
H OIRANSO
An Ingenious method of crossing Somme, where the heavy fighting
a river, by means of an aerial "trot-j has been going on. The British have
ley," is shown In the accompanying no monopoly of this method of cros-
plcture. These men lire members of
a cavalry machine gun troop, and the
stream they are crossing Is near the
sing rivers, of course. It is employ
ed by the soldiers of other armies
as well.
ELECTION HAD NO EFFECT
Bradstreet's Report for Week is Ex
ceedingly Gratfying.
RESOLUTO 5
T
DAUGHTERS
New York. Nov. 11. llradst reel's
report yesterday said:
'While naturally responding to and
sharing in the political excitement
ruling this week, trade and industry
display no real check In the long con
tinued surge forward In demand. In
terest in the election, returns them
selves and uncertainty as to results,
rather than doubt as to policies
adopted or rejected, acted as torrents
to activity in some lines, but the
great majority of reports fail to re
cord any tangible effect upon trade,
which lias held steadily large at most
i renters, and even Increased at some
northwestern and southern points.
"The effect of ear shortages, which
have i iil tailed or delayed the shipment
of coal, lumber and grain, as well as
underproduction of materials, are
Indeed more often mentioned as draw
barks than in political excitement, and
where conservatism reported in fu
lure ordering It is based more on ex
treme price advances than on politi
cal developments.
"Weekly bank clearings. $."i,::47,-310,ii(i(l."
ilffl CELEBRATION JN
ARDIREAU:3IIHHT
TROOPS OF GENERAL MUGIA AD
VANCING NORTHWARD FROM
ESCALON.
STRENGHTEN DEFENSE
Double Row of Barbed Wire Entangle
ments Constructed Around Chihua
hua City and Temporary Fortifica
tions Have Been Strengthened.
London. Nov. 11. General
von .Mackenseit's retreat in Do
hrtiil.ja continues, and the Uni
tarian population is fleeing
front 1 lolirndja to Rulgaria, it
is officially announced.
Northeast of C'ourcelette, on
the Sotnnie front, the Rritish
last night entered the advanced
Gorman positions, the Merlin
war office admits.
German Attack Repulsed.
Paris, Nov. II The French re
pulsed a German attack at Deniecoiirt
i'llliillng heavy losses upon the Ger
mans, says a slatcmcnt from the war
office.
Chihuahua City, Mex., Nov. 11.
One division of Cnrranza troops under
General Murgia Is advancing north
ward from Kscalnn In two columns,
one repairing the Mexican Central
railroad tracks and the other, consist
ing of live thousand vsvalrymcn, Is
hunting the bandits. It Is officially an
nounced. Military authorities say that Villa
is near the Ilurango border and that
this troop movement cuts him off from
the north.
Temporary fortillcations, encircling
tin- city, have been fnfarged and
strengthened. A doubl row of barbed I
i
wre entanglements lias been con
structed outside the Infantry entrench
ments and Ihree strong redoubts are
being built.
Allies Lose in Monastir.
Iterlln, Nov. 11. French and Ser
bian attacks on the Teutonic positions
east of Monastir were repulsed with
heavy Iosbos. It is officially announc
ed. Several entrenched Rumanian
lines were taken on the bayonet point
on the Transylvania front, west of
ITedael on the Sinnya road. The
Itussian attacks at Skrobowa broke
down under heavy losses. The. Ger
mans have penetrated the main Itus
sian positions southwest, of Folkras-uolesle.
Sets Out France's Case.
Paris, Nov. 11. The case of the
French government against Germany,
regarding alleged mistreatment of
French prisoners of war, Is set out in
detail in a volume of 101) pages, w hich
has Just been issued and which will
be distributed abroad. The govern
ment ((intends that many accusations
have been proven.
Woman Elected to Congress.
Helena. Mont., Nov. 11. Latest re
turns assure the election of Miss Jean
ry- Rankin, republican, to congress
SULPHUR IS COMING
Will Be in Celebration Parade With
Suitable Banners.
Democrats of Sulphur, with banners
suitable for the occasion, will be here
in large numbers Monday night to be
with the Carter county democrats Ir
celebration of the Wilson victory. This
assurance was given to Senator Tuck
er yesterday over long distance tele
phone. Sulphur has a live bunch of
town boosters as well as a wide-awake
democracy and Carter county will ap
preciate their presence on the occas
ion of the Carter county celebration.
nnaananaanaaaao
a
a
a
a
a
a
a
aaaaaaasxxaans
WEATHER FORECAST
New Orleans, La.. Nov. 11.
The weather forecast for Ok
lahoma for Sunday ts fair and
colder.
WANT TERM "WAR BETWEEN
THE STATES" USED INSTEAD
OF "CIVIL WAR" WANT HIS
TORIES TO BE FAIR.
Dallas. Tex.. Nov. 11 Resolutions
to "educate the people of the I'nited
States, especially Confederate Vet
erans." in the use of the terms "war
between the states" In preference to
"the civil war," were adopted by the
general convention of the I'nited
Daughters of the Confederacy today.
A resolution was also adopted de
manding that "histories and readers
in the south have a ran- and impartial
account of the events before the war.
during the war and in the reconstruc
tion period." It was stated that the
resolutions were drawn as a result of
reports of committees, which have
been Investigating these books.
All of the Indebtedness of the I'ni
ted Daughters of the Confederacy In
curred for the Arlington and Shlloh
monuments was declared liquidated at
today's session of the general conven
tion. The total was $110,050.
Chattanooga and AShevllle, N. C.
are candidates for next year's convention.
Ardmore will wear the bright robes of rejoicing Monday.
Commitees have been happily at work, arranging for
the most mammoth celebration ever held in the city. When
Woodrow Wilson was elected four years ago, he hail the ad
vantage. The republican party's forces were divided, victory
was expected. Hut in the contest this fall the president went
I out to battle against an enemy united in force and in purpose.
I The waving grain fields of California locked arms with the cot
ton fields of the south and a march was made to victory. This
victory is fraught with a great meaning to the American peo
ple and especially to the Democracy of the country. There is
cause for rejoicing. This is an' occasion that justifies the wildest
celebration.
The hold of Xew York upon the country has been broken.
As the great deposits of money have left the east for more Just
distribution over the south and west, the money gods of the
east made a desperate struggle for supremacy. It would mean
their continuous hold upon the financial world if the Federal
Reserve Board could be controlled by the election of Hughes.
It meant a dissipation of that great force if Wilson should be
elected. Millions of wealth were involved and against those
v oodrow llson has led the democratic hosts to victory.
The funeral procession will be formed in front of the fed
eral building. Charles Evans Hughes will be placed in a big
black coffin and he will be borne by pall bearers to a safe
resting place where his hammer will cease to knock for at least
four more years.
. There will be bands of musicians. There will be fire works.
There will be a parade of autos. The shouts of boys will mingle
with the shouts of men, and the women of Ardmore will also
take a prominent part.
Re on the streets Monday night at 7 :30. Telephone messages
have been sent to outside towns asking them to join in the cele
bration. Ardmore delayed the celebration until Monoay because it
wanted every precinct in the county represented. It also wants
every town in the southern portion of the state to have its live
democrats here, and a cordial invitation is extended to all
people everywhere to come and take part.
Refugees' Furniture Arrives.
i:i Paso. Tex . Nov. 11 Klght wag
on loads of furniture owned by Chi-j
litialiiia refugees are on the interna
tional bridge awaiting customs Inspec
tion. More household goods than
trunks have (Tossed the bridge dur
ing the last two weeks, officials say
Praises Motor Trucks.
Field I lendipiarters in Mexico. Nov
11 Motor truck have supplied the
punitive expedition at a distance four
times greater than heretofore deemed
possible, according to llrlgadler Gen
eral Crosier, who lias Just completed
an Inspection lu re. He says" he w ill
recommend some changes to the mo
torcycle machine guns.
Report Parral Recaptured.
Eagle I'ass. Tex., Nov. 11. De facto
troops under General Murgia have re
captured Parral and Santa Rosalia.
according to a Torreon report.
WON'T PERMIT EVIDENCE
Court Refuses to Permit Watson to
Introduce Evidence About Conduct.
Waco. Tex., Nov. II The court
today refused t permit the defense
to Introduce evidence regarding the
conduct of Watson prior to the killing
of Patterson. One witness said that
Watson appeared depressed before
the shooting, but expressed the belief
that Watson knew right from wrong.
Died at Agra.
O. W. Cox. who formerly lived In
Uils city and was proprietor of a
grocery store on C street, southeast,
died lsst Sunday in Agra. Okla., ac
cording to a letter received by Mrs.
William Page from Mrs. Cox. Mr. Cox
left here to go to California In hopes
of benefiting his health, but he grew
worse and came back to Oklahoma.
French Aviator Busy.
Paris, Nov. 11 Second Lieutenant
Geroges Gtiyiiamer. the French aero
jnaut, Wiio recently brought down three
German Heroplanes in two minutes and
half by a stop watch, yesterday
brought down two more German ma
chines, it is officially announced. Thin
makes him twenty-one victims.
E
OFFICE PORTION OF FREIGHT
DEPOT WILL BE MADE TWO
STORIES IN HEIGHT FOR OIL
OFFICES.
Tbo freight depot plans of the
Santa Fe have been changed. The
office portion of the building will be
made two stories and office rooms for
the Collne Oil company will he ar
ranged in the second story. These
offices will be steam heated, they will
be well lighted and will be modern
in every pariicilar. The heating plant
for the freight depot and also for the
passenger station will be located In
the basement of the freight depot
building. When the new building Jias
been completed Mr Redmond and his
office force will move in and take
charge.
NOTE FROM THE STATE CAPITAL
Special, via Grape Vine. Some one
on the Oklahoman must hae bet fo ir
dollars on Hughes. Details from the
golt links are expected later.
