First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The j
MauKounty Fair i
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., JULY 7, 1916.
NUMBER 20
Honolulu Horses
Take Maui Money
30th Annual Race Meet Was Big Suc
cess Big Honolulu Crowd Excit
ing Races On A Slow Track
The 30th annual rare moot of the
Maul Racing Association, on the Four
th of July, was In many respccls one
of the most successful of the long list
of successful affairs seen on the Maul
trark. It was well attended, the rac
es for the most, part wore exciting,
and the crowd was orderly. It was
not Maui's lucky day, however .as far
as winning was concerned, for the
more important, events were won by
visiting horses.
The time was generally slow, ow
ing to a heavy track caused hy rains
during the two previous days. The
weather overhead, however, was all
that could be desired, and by noon
the mud on the track was fairly well
dried up.
Welcome Boy, Tom Hollingcr's big
bay, In his long scries of brushes with
his Maul rival Denervo, got revenge
for his had defeat In Honolulu on Ka-
mehameha day by taking three out of
four heats In the first race of the day.
Mcrhee's horse was driven by James
Cornwcll in place of Dan Carey, who
was disabled from his cut wrist of a
week before. He nosed out his rival
In the 3rd heat, after Welcome Roy
had held the lead from the start The
4th heat however, went to the visitor,
and the race was won and lost
Dr. Fitzgerald's Copra, after a lot of
fractious action before the race won
the second event, handsomely from
McFhee & Locey's Heidelberg and It
W. Shingle's Umpqua: and again in
the 8th race (half-mile dash) had no
difficulty In taking the purse from w.
A. Clark's Edwin, Young Lady having I
been scratched. I
The closest race of the day was the
V mile free-for-all running; in which
McPhee & Locey's Ypress nosed out a
victory from Senator Baldwin a Fran'
ces B. by so close a margin that no
one in the grandstand was certain
what the judges' verdict would be.
Frances B. led the' bunch from the
start but was overhauled by Ypress
on the stretch. Time, 1:21-4-5. Mrs,
Walter Dillingham's bay horse, One-
onta, ran a bad third .
Bubbling Water, Manuel Ah Sue's
bay filly, won In the 2-year-qld class
half-mile event from Dr. Fitzgerald's
Dick Tilburn, by an open length, and
later when she ran In the maiden
pony class was disqualified after the
race, and the event given to Panama,
Joe William's 5-year old. Happy Boy,
(L. von Tempsky) ran third .
Cowboy Events Please
A lot. of sport was had by the spec
tators following the horse racing. In
the riding and roping contests staged
In front of the grand stand. In these
Harvey Raymond carried off the cham-
pionshlp In the amateur roping con
test, together with the Dig i&u. cup
There were no hitches In the racing
events, and the track officials all de
serve praise for the unusually exped
itious manner In which the events
were handled. Much of this was due
to the preparations made by Angus
McPhee and F. H. Locey. to whom the
track had been turned over for this
hv the Association. The
ludges and other officials received
many compliments for the satisfactory
work thev did. The Judges were w,
A Clark. H. Gooding Field, and F.ben
Low. D. Mooney, of Honolulu also
assisted the Judges. S. S. Paxson of
Honolulu, was starter; H. Gesner and
Mai. Bal were parole judges; Frann
Cameron kept things moving as clerk
of the course: Dr. Farrell and Fred
Wichman held the watches; and Capt
Whitehead was master of ceremonies
at the cowboy stunts.
Shlnale Takes Maul Hotel Cup.
As a result of the 10th and last race
the feature event of the day. K. w.
Shingle's Harvester "harvested" eve-
,
rything in sight, Including the hand-
some Maul Hotel cup. In thlb race or
a total mile and a hair, the winning
half was to receive a
J250 nurse, the 3 purses totaling $750
and the horse first under the wire to
receive also the cup trophy. Harvest
er led from the drop of the flag and
made the three circuits of the track
failv In time of 2:50. Ypress finished
2nd, and Miss Officious, entered by
Miss Inez McPhee, on which much had
been hoped, came a poor third. Hel
delberg was scratched In this race,
and Umpqua wasn't in it at any stage
of the game.
Summary Of Race
First Race
Trotting or Pacing, free-for-all; 1-mile
heats; best three in five. Purse jjau
Sweenstakes J100 added.
Welcome Boy, Thos. Hollinger.l, 1, 2,1.
Denervo. McPhee & Locey, 2. 2. 1, 2.
Time, 2:31, 2:28, 2:29, 2:27 1 5.
Second Race
Running Race Half mile dash; free-
for-all. Purse $250 of which $50 goes to
second horse.
Copra, J. C. Fitzgerald, 1
Heidelberg, McPhee & Locey, 2
Umpqua, R. W. Shingle, 3
Time :5215.
Third Race
Running Race Three-quarter mile;
Free for- all. Purse $250. of which $50
goes to the second horse.
Two Days Carnival
Was A Big Success
Hard Work Resulted In Generous Re
ward For WvorthIy Cause Kula
Man Wins Auto
Walluku had its first taste of car
nival in the big benefit, affair given by
Ihe St. Anthony's Church building and
improvement fund committee on Mon
day and Tuesday. And judging by the
big attendance in spite of a drizzle of
lin on the first evening, the taste was
appreciated. A big lot of credit for
the success of the undertaking Is
due to the committee which had work-
unremittingly for several weeks.
The big street parade on Monday
afternoon with a wonderful collection
of animals as features, and all marsh
aled by Chief Circus Manager J. f!ar-
cia, started the big stunt off in fine
spirit, which rain could not dampen.
A big crowd was in attendance thro.
out the time the various booths were
open, and something over $2500 was
realized, from which, however, vari
ous expenses are to be deducted.
Among the various features of the
affair, the "Old Hawaii" booth was
probably the moRt deserving of credit,
and was deservedly popular.
The winners of the various prizes
were John Miguel, Kula, Ford tour
ing car. Robert L. Heau, bicycle.
Pearl Medeiros, doll. Albert L. Wills,
fine Hawaiian quilt. August Dorego,
tricycle.
Among the members of the various
committees who deserve especial men
tion for their part In the general suc
cess are Sheriff Clem Crowell, dec
orations: J. C. Blair and P. E. Pereira,
illuminations; J. H. Kunewa, enter
tainment; Charles Lake, luau; Mrs. J.
Garcia, ladies' bazaar; Mrs. A. Gross,
old Hawaii
and Father Justin,
finance.
Ypress, McPhee & Locey, 1
Frances B-, Sen. Baldwin, 2
Oneonta. Mrs. W. F. Dillingham, 3
Time, 1:21 4-5
Fourth Race
Running Race Two year old; free for
all; half-mile. Purse $230, $50 of which
roes to the second horse. ''
Bubbling Water, Manuel Ah Sue, 1
Dick Tilburn, J. C. Fitzgerald, 2
Will Owen, Sen. Baldwin, scratched
Time, :54 4-5
Fifth Race
Japanese Race half-mile dash. Hors
es to be owned and ridden by Japan
ese. Purse $125. of which $25 goes to
second horse. Catch Weights.
Mahinahina Boy, Fugimoto, 1
Young Lady, Chickamori, 2
Laden, Yamoto, 3
Mahinahina Negro Boy (Gibo) and El
ko (Ageno) also ran.
Time :55.
Sixth Race
Hawaiian Bred. Maiden Pony Race;
half-mile dash; Purse $100. Limit 14-2
Catch Weights. "
Bubbling Water, M. Ah Sue, 1
Panama, Joe Williams, 2
Happy Boy, L. von Tempsky, 3
Bad start. Bubbling Water cllsquai
Ifled after the race for winning In a
nrevlous event. Panama won
Seventh Race
Portuguese Race. Three-quarter mile
dash. Horses to be maiden, owned
and ridden by Portuguese. Purse $175
of which $25 goes to second horse
Catch Weights.
Lokelanl, J. Soares, 1
Rainbow, A. J. Fernandez, 2
Panama, Joe Williams 3
nme, i.ty
Eighth Race
Hawaiian Bred. Half-mile running
race. Purse $250, $50 of which goes to
the second horse.
Copra, J. C. Fitzgerald 1
Edwin, W. A. Clark, 2
Young Iady, scratched .
Time. :52
I I -f 1 1 1 . 1 1 i innu
IIawai(!m Bred. Three quarter mile
Ninth Race
running race. Purse $250 of which $50
goes to the second horse.
Frances B., Sen. Baldwin, 1
Wallaby, L. von Tempsky, 2
Dutch Parrot, Sen. Baldwin, s
Mahinahina Boy also ran.
Time, 1:22
Tenth Race
Maui Hotel Cup Race. Free for all.
Mile and a half. Running race.
Purse $750. Horse leading at 1st half,
wins $250; horse leading at 2nd half,
wins $250; horse that finishes first,
win $250 and a $150 cup presented by
the Maul Hotel.
Harvester, R. W. Shingle, 1
Ypress. McPhee & Locey, 2
Miss Officious, 3
Umpqua also ran, Heidelberg being
scratched.
Time, 2:50
In celebration of her 12th birth
day anniversary, Edith, the eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Field,
entertained a large number of her lit
tle friends with a party at the Maui
Hotel, last Friday evening. The affair
was a very delightful one for the
children, and a goodly number of
grown-ups also got much enjoyment
out of the occasion. Dancing and
choice refreshments were the import
ant features of the evening.
Pineapple Men Lose
ThroughBad Road
Rainy Weather In Haiku Section Again
Interferes With Harvesting Crop
Homestead Roads Fairly Good
Pineapples are again rotting in the
fields beyond Haiku because of the
bad roads. After a series of vain at
tempts to get teamsters to haul fruit
at. as hish as $5 per ton. Manager A. F.
Tavares, of the Maul Pineapple Com
pany came to Walluku yesterday and
made an appeal to the board of super
visors for some kind of temporary
assistance. Chairman Sam Kalama as
consequence Is out. in the district
today to see what can be done In the
matter. The most of the trouble is on
the main belt road between Pauwela
and I'lumnlu, a distance of some two
or three miles. Little or no attention
has been given to this section, and
such as has been given has not been
of high etllcieney. The result Is that
there are many places that it Is almost
impossible to get an empty .wagon
over.
The roads are not as bad as they
were two years ago when tons of
fruit rotted in the fields because the
roads were impassable, but several
weeks of wet weather with an aver
age of 4 to 5 Inches of rain per week,
has made conditions bad enough. In
the main section of the Kuiaha home
stead district, while some of the roads
have been bad, they have been gen
erally passable thanks to the fact that
the homesteaders themselves were
given the maintainance of some 12
miles of roads in their district, and
the results have borne fruit
It was talked In the board of super
visors yesterday of granting the same
privilege to interested residents of
other, sections, In hope that the plan
may work qually well as in the Kuiaha
district.
Rush Season la On
The rush season Is on In the pine.
apple sections of Maui and all the
canneries are working about to capac
ity. A shortage of labor is In a meas
ure complicating the matter of har
vesting, as is the wet weather in the
Haiku district. Although the growers
are this year receiving about $16 per
ton for first class fruit at the can
neries, and $8 for Reconds, the farm
ers who are compelled to pay from $5
to $7 per ton for picking and hauling
are not due to see any great amount of
profit, with coRt. of production running
from $13 to $15.
Honolulans Plan To
Locate Old Iao Trail
An interesting and Incidentally very
strenuous, trail and mountain expedi
tion is being planned by Attorney
Frank E. Thompson, Jack Balch. man
ager of the Mutual Telephone Comp
any, and Frank Howes, all of them
stars in the "hiking game, the ex.
pedition being an effort to enter Iao
Valley, in Maul, and follow an old trail
to Lahaina. There is no such trail
known now, but tradition says that in
ancient days Hawaiian had a pathway
by which they crossed the island of
Maul by a route through Iao Valley.
The trail if there ever was one Is en
tirely lost
It is considered possible that if the
old trail is discovered, it may be the
line of a new road across the Valley
Island. At the recent meeting of the
promotion committee In Maui, the
matter was referred to by L. A. 1 nurs
ton, who expressed the hope that the
old trail would be relocated some day
and Bald that it might yet be the line
of a road through a most picturesque
country .
This helped to Bt.ir the ambition of
the mountain climbers, Thompson.
Balch and Howes.who have already
some strenuous explorations to their
credit, and they are only waiting for
good weather to start up Iao Valley
and try to get to Lahaina over the
mountains. Advertiser.
FORMER MAUI RESIDENT DEAD
Following a long Illness, Ben Men
diola, the well known Part-Hawaiian
cartoonist, died at half past ten last
Monday night at the home of his bro
ther, Peter Mendiola. 54G Halekau-
wila sti'eet. Funeral arrangements
will be made later. Mendiola was a
native of Wailuku. Maui, unmarried
and twenty-three years old. He was
at one time with The Advertiser and
his work is well remembered. He re
turned only a few months ago from a
trip which carried him practically
around the world.
Alexander Valentine, manager of
the Olowalu Company, was before
District .Magistrate Philip Pali, last
Saturday to answer a charge of vio
lating County Ordinance No. 33,
which makes it an offense to run
steam plow engines over county roads.
The plantation man in question was
alleged to have been responsible for
considerable damage to the surface
of the new oiled macadam road thro'
the p'antation, by running heavy plow
machinery over it. Valentine was dis
charged by Pa'i with a warning.
Maui Poloists Win
Easily From Oahu
Big Crewd Sees Interesting Game at
Keahua Dinner and Dance For
Visitors Follows Play
Starting off with a snap that prom.
Ised one of the most sensational games
In years, the Fourth of July polo game
at the Keahua field quickly slumped
to the mediocre, and wound up at the
end of the eighth period with a score
of 12', 4 to 2 in favor of the local four.
At least a part of the trouble was pro
bably duo to the horses of the Hono
lulu visitors being apparently out of
condition. A good deal had been ex
pected of this game, since the line
up of each team was the same as it
was two years ago in Honolulu when
ten periods were necessary to break
the tied score in a wonderfully bril
liant game.
The game was witnessed by a big
holiday crowd which repaired to the
Tolo ground immediately Hollowing
Ihe conclusion of the races at Kahulul.
Dinner For Visitors
S. A. Baldwin, though now a Maul
man. played with the Honolulu team.
The others on this line-up were Ar
thur Rice, Walter Dillingham, and
Harold Castle. The Mauis played In
their regular order A. W. Collins, F.
F. F. Baldwin, H. Rice and Dave
Fleming. '
Following the game Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Baldwin were hosts at a dinner
served at the Maul Hotel to some 60
Honolulu and Maui guests. Following
the dinner dancing was Indulged In
for several hours.
jt.
Several Slightly Hurt
In Automobile Collision
Two badly damaged automobiles
and a number of badly shaken tip pas
sengers was the net result of an auto
mobile collision which took place on
the afternoon of the Fourth at the
entrance to the Walluku baseball
grounds. Rev. Father Justin, of St
Anthony's Church, with Mrs. Clem
Crowoll and Mrs. A. Gross In his car,
was coming up Main street and at
tempting to turn into the ball park,
where the big Catholic carnival was
in progress, just as Eke, a Japanese
chauffeur in the rent service, came
down the street In his Ford with two
passengers .
The cars came together with consld.
erable force, and the Ford machine
was thrown against the fence on the
south side of the street. Its driver
was at first thought to be seriously
hurt, and he was rushed to the Malu.
lani hospital, but his injuries proved
to be superficial. Mrs. Crowell and
Mrs. Gross suffered a few slight cuts
and bruises.
Baseball Series Now
Likely Off For Good
After everybody believed that the
deadlock in local baseball circles had
been broken, and after the Maui Ath
letic Club had gotten together In a
sort of love feast and published an
other schedule beginning with a game
for next Sunday between Puunene and
Wailuku. everything is off once more.
Not only will there not be a game on
Sunday, but it is entirely probable that
there will be no regular series played
this season.
The trouble was thought to be set
tied when Foster Robinson, of the Pa
ia team, renounced his first determin
ation not to pitch at all if his brother
Alvin, now a resident of Puunene. was
not allowed to catch him. Now it
turns out that Alvin Robinson declines
to play with Puunene, and. Manager
Paschoal declares that he hasn. t mat
erial without him, to make a team
and therefore Puunene will not play
at all. Rohinsou is reported to give
as his reason for not playing with Puu.
none that he is too old and that he
has quit the game.
Tuna Club Members To
Have Clubhouse At Kihe
H. Gooding Field, dean of the game
fishing sportsmen, of these islands, is
on Maui for the purpose of making
nretmratious for the big bunch of
anglers he is certain will begin arriv
ing from the mainland early this fall
Mr. Field and his wife arrived in Hon
olulu about ten days ago after spend
inir several months in southern Cali
fornia where Mr. Field added to hi
laurels by landing one of the biggest
fishes of the season at Catallna.
Mr. Field is looking for a site for
a clubhouse for visiting fishermen, to
bo located somewhere between Kihel
and Makona. The choicest fishing
ground of all this territory, he de
clares, is Just a few miles off this
stretch of shore.
TEUTON LINES YIELD
ON DIFFERENT FRONTS
Great Drive Of British And French Continues
Russian Forces Strike Smashing Blows At
Austrians Mexican Crisis Seems Past
HONOLULU, July 7 Woman injured in automobile crash. Sol
dier is blamed for accident at entrance to Diamond Head road. Priv
ate William Smith, of 4th Infantry crashed into car occupied hy Theo
dore Decker. Harriet Crowell thrown from machine and injured. Said
that Smith drove his car 40 miles cr hour.
Legislature will he asked to amend workmens' compensation act.
Salaries for commissioners is biggest change needed in present measure.
Others would shorten period of disability. Lump sum settlement op
tion among other alterations that would he suggested.
Eaton Magoon and Wm. Shields capsized in fast motor boat and
drifted in water for 2 hours till Japanese fisherman went to rescue.
4'oat sank. Effort will be made to
Sales of stocks are quiet again.
ay closes with it higher.
LONDON, July 7 Entente round-up is in full swing. Russians
smash Teutons. Austrians before
retiring. Intense heat seems to be
heavy Austrian reverses. Auslran
lo be in panic stricken rout in different sections.
PARIS, July Drive m west
sweep iront. oermans resisting attacks hercely. rrencn so herce in
ttacks that Germans hae been forced to transfer troops. Rapid ad-
ance upon Peronne by rrench checked by leutonS. Germans have
been attempting to launch counter
for ground is desperate.
WASHINGTON, July 7 Mexico gets a fair chance to convince
White House. Note from Carranza
ences. Jtntente Allies reported to
ments. After de facto government proves its good faith there is pros
pect of America advancing money to help rejuvenate country.
LONDON, July 7 Lloyd-George gets Kitchener's place in Brit
h cabinet. Minister of munitions promoted to portfolio of Secretary
of state for war. Lord Derby becomes his under secretary. Sir Ed
ward Gray created earl and retains
NEW YORK., July 7 Gotham
issue bonds for funds to combat
WASHINGTON, July 7 Department commanders have been
authorized by secretary of war to
have been tarain into federal cervice
ent relatives.
.HONOLULU, July 6 Blame
Fraine. Booze used in celebrating alleged to have caused the troubles.
National guard may have dental surgeon for each island. All guards
men are required to enlist again. New ruling is made to comply with
requirements of new defense act.
LONDON, July G Great advance made by Russians on cast
during the past few weeks bringing Czar's armies down again on that
part of Galicia which leads to Lemberg. Slavs are taking tli offensive
on the entire eastern front. Weather is favorable. Russians put
forward from Riga to Carpathian
ihe plains of Hungary close to the
ry beyond river Stnpa Russians
and Korosmezo and have captured
steady that it is believed Austrians
thus fighting over ground won many
lodged the captors of Lemberg
BERLIN, luly 6 French and
mce, that attacking parties were
, ii i -r
give back uncier neavy losses, rrencn mauc sun auenipi, souiu-wcsi
of Fort Vaux, to advance but were repulsed. Endeavor to recapture
Damloup hill batteries failed.
PARIS. lulv 6 Germans todav
pieces norm ot nan. rrencn atso
., i- T T II. I I.' I. I I
ter of sharp fighting. No infantry attacks on the Verdun front,
mans are attempting to bombard Verdun cathedral. Many of
shells are passing close to the famous towers.
LONDON, July 6 British made slight gain near lluetval.
her of nrisoners taken. French resumed activity today on the
nf the river Somme.
BERLIN, July (y Enemy's
was attacked and sunk by a German
marine returning from Cartagena,
Meamer, nerault. ..
ROME. luly 6 Nearly 300
entombed by cave-in, or otherwise
WASHINGTON, July 0 President win accept carranza s as
surances that the de facto government will safeguard foreign lives and
property in Mexico and join U. S. in punishing border bandits. Uen
nitely decided not to send Hawaii's guard to border.
HONOLULU, July 6 Organization ot new regiments on uanu
under way. Two engineer companies to be created Here, ftiajor kod
ert Raymond will be promoted to be lieutenant-colonel .
Supervisor Horner's objection to city payroll raises storm at noon
meeting. Hatch says planters set worthy example. liudget is lmaiiy
passed on third reading with but one dissenting vote. .
Japan will have to defend herself against Germany, says a noted
war coritesiondent. He says Teutonic empire and entente allies will
menace Orient. . .
Stocks more active on exchange yesterday especially Olaa and Oa
hu. More than $200,000 is paid in dividends by 4 plantations. II. C. &
S., llonomu, Hutchinson, and Paahau.
WASHINGTON, July 6 Carranza noue gives Washington high
hoies. Complete withdrawal of American troops is now likely. Re
sumption of diplomatic conversations will be followed by return of Per
shing's command.
SAN FRANCISCO, July 6 Coast business inteiVsts take up
strike issue. Situation is so serious that San Francisco chamber of
commerce considers the problems involved. Commercial concrms are
warned of danger. Time has come when cither labor or merchants
must control trade of city.
LONDON, July 6 Russians capture iirqKirtant railroad and men
ace Lemberg. South of Moskow they fight hard and fiercely. In
northern sector objective of Russians has been Kovet.
salve it.
Oahu rules in strong demand and
Lemberg are routed. German army
in league with Turks. Vienna admits
armv is in state of coilanse and said
continues. French-British forces
attacks but to no avail. Struggle
opens way for diplomatic confer
have had some influence in arrange
officer of foreign affairs.
is fighting for lives oi babes. May
infantile paralysis .
discharge enlisted men of militia who
and who have one or more depend
drink as cause of death of Private
passes and are working down into
Roumanian frontier. In Galician coun
crossed railway between Delatant
Mokotchine. Progress here is so
may withdraw towards Lemberg,
months ago after Austrians dis
fortress.
British met such determined resist-
broken and annihilated or forced to
. I 1 . - . . i .1.
succeeded in capturing I
small
iooi: woou which uas ieen
cen-Ger-their
Num
north destroyer operating in the North Sea
submarine. Another German sub
Spain sunk the armored rrencn
men at work m sulphur mines were
killed.
