THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair Friday and Saturday; gentle, shift
ing winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 83; lowest, 60.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on pace 1 1.
ntu
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 311.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916. Copyright, 1916, by the Sun Printing and I'ubUthtng Association.
ONE CENT
In Greater New iirl
Jersey lily and Newark.
1 Mien here,
) TWO t'KNTS.
U. S. AIDS CITY
TOSTEM SWEEP
OF PARALYSIS
JUAdoo Calls on Mayor, Of
fering Federal Health
Service
2i DEATHS, m NEW
CASES, DAY'S l.EPOHT
Tracing of Tiny Germ Most
Important Factor in
Epidemic Figlit.
"We are going the limit In taklntr
measures to tight Infantile paralysis"
(Aid Health Commissioner Haven llmer- win has decided to assent to Oen. Car
on last evcnlnrf as ho was leaving his India's pita to resume diplomatic ne
office. "We are taking every possible i gotlatlons. Ily direction of the President
means of Heating the sick ones, and we 11 conciliatory note will be sent to thu
( using every precaution to prevent de facto Government of Mexico to-mor-the
spread of tho disease. Still I have row-
r.o confidence that the disease Is being Secretary Lansing has already pi
controlled. In piciious luutanccs the.l'aied the note and will forward It In
epidemic has continued through the hotl-lseo Arrtdondo, the Mexican Anibn,'
neither. We are lighting against greut ' "-'dor Designate, as soon as It has been
odds because we know so little about the ! approved at to-morrow's Cabinet meet-
ji i. . . . I llnr. Mr. Arrednndn ennferre,! will. si,-.
Tho records vestenliv showed 133 new
The ricorda jestc dav showed 133 new
cares ami -i iie.ims iw mu uaj, ""i,
ne steps were taken to prevent the' It Is understood that In the communi
spread of the maladj. One of the most cation to Carranza the President w'll
important was the arrangement to use ' express appreciation of Carmiiza's Jeslru
the United States I'ubllc Health Service, , to settle the controversy amicably anJ
s liureau under direction of the Secre- will make It clear that the American cx
tary of the Treasury, for a scientific pedltionary force will be withdrawn fnm
itudy of carriers of the germs. .Mexico ns speedily as Carranza's own
Secretary McAdoo called on Major i loops can take up the task which tlusj
Mltchel In the afternoon and offered the forces were sent to perforin.
Id of the l'ederal Health liureau. The. The essential feature of the llote wlb
Major was delUhted. and Immediately be recognition of L'.irrania's conte'itlot.
called Or, Emcrsoii Into conference. Dr. that the Insecurity of the American bor
lanersoi, explained that he must tlrst der fiom raiders and the piesence 'if
consult the ilty cxpcits to decide along (Jen. Pcishlhg's force In .Mexico are the
what line, the Federal aid could best be main causes or tile controversy,
used, Secretar McAdoo directed the Willingness to establish an under
Health Commissioner to wire direct to standing by the elimination of ea"h of
the Health Service. In Washington for these cutties will be made unmlstakib.y
the aid he desired. .clear by the United States. Detitls -it
. the methods to lie employed will be let'.
Kxperts lulled In onferc nee. to ruri,er dliect negotiation.
1 'r Emcrnon, hurrying buek to the m . , ..n.i
Health Department. Immediately called 'on for Mediation.
h.to consultation his staff of experts. Secretary Lansing said there was v
Among those pit-sent were Dr. William occasion for the mediation of ou'slee
II. 1'aik. director of the department's ibplnttuVv. He cupiessed confidence that
laboratories; Dr. Louis G. ,ger. head Mexico aiid the United States could how
of Hie llrooklyn branch of the depart- come to an agreement without medlitlop
nieitt and superintending the tight The President will take the view that
a.-alnst the disease In llrooklyn; Dr. friendly diplomatic relations lictw-vn
(lunge Draper of the Rockefeller Instl-'tbe two Governments have never been
tute. Dr. Abrnriitu Sophlnn, Dr. S. Jo- Interrupted and will proceed on I he
Midline Haker. director of the denart- ih..,,rv that both Governments Will
n.i tit's bureau of child hygiene ; Dr. Jo-
'Thine li. Neal and Dr. Charles i
tielduan. I
The .taff in.Meed that the best work
euiild be ilcme by the Keder.il Health Ser-'.
i.v In making both field epidemiological
and laboratory studies with animal In-
o-ulatlnna (o ascertain bow the disease
Is spread. Herein lies the chief scientific!
proweiii in tne battle ngalnst the epl
dimir
so small aie tbc germs of Infantile
piraljrls that thev are not visible under'
t mast powerful microscope. That the
rtrnis exist, however, has been nrowil
by Irivrtilntlons of matter taken from vie- more n the form of an Initiation of dl- ( lu-jKirH from Mobile placed the prop
t mi of the disease. Accoidlngly the,rect negotiations. I erty damage there at a million dollars.
't aiitliorltitw ,ir contending against The all Important question of with- ,ut cl)Urier arriving later at Meridian
u-i aimosi inniillesini.il foe which travels, I
tliey know not how, from one human be-'
ir.? to another.
01 sl experts.
W nuts, IOO .MonUejs Imported.
lie also asked the good oflhes of the
i-'dtral liovernment In having trans
ported to this country 100 monkeys now
..i i-uieiiiu experts neoioeii tnat tne tlmated at the vvnue nouse
rder.i! Public Health Service was best will be Issued later for the
f all e,,ulpp.d for this work. The . .irement of Oen. Pershing's :
lle.iith Coiiinilssloner wheil to Washing-! It is regarded ns probable
I eld lu the Philippines because of an' in northern Mexico as shown by the re
'miiarsn on the shipment of anlmiils.i ..a j.r..i nf itetachmcnt of Car-
llien- monkeys h.-nl been iir..iM,..i k
the ii,.uefn; ,. "
i n V . oou are neeuea ,
fP--.l V fur Irmeiilntlnn-
y. , t'''rt "f ncw" w "bowed I lfmcrs, i, marching northward through
fc rtj. three In staten Island. Dr. chihuahua from Parral. may cause C.H
liners.,n hopes that the Federal physl- t0 appreciate the presence of Gen.
c ans w handle tho diagnostic work of "."hi ng'force. according to War De
Ma en Island cases and that Dr. Leland ntment olhelals here,
-fofer the Health Olllcer of the Port. V once Cairanza has obtained a prom-
.II l.p.vlde hospital room for Isolation. ip(. to have the American troops wlth
.u l1vT:eJ"l,M,I,''', l5,an,, B,e ln vlr- drawn across the border, he may not be
IimI j nery village. In such a hurr' to lmve lt cnrrle1 oM'
Tho Increase the number of new I ? n explained. Hy the gradual with
m "H t-nmpared with in on the drawal of Oen. Pershing's troops, which
n J'.nT V: l'r!,"t" ,1,P tm"1 ,or lh would be made coincident with the nr
l.uleinlc up to about 710. If. however. I rival of Cartanzlsta forces, the security
'.e 133 were nlded to the 1..111I ..r u. . . .u. .,.i i. .timlnntlon of rev-
imUt'?',li,1.' the "KUre woull ,,a I
wit Hr Iloldtinn and Dr. A'lehi.in. i.mh ,
ef tbe Health Department, explained that
...ne i.ain i...-en a duplication of IK--tircs.
The statistics for yesterday
nowed s new rases In llrooklyn, 5 in
Manhattan. 2 In (Jueent, and none in
The Hronx. In Miookljn the Infected
urea cntlniies about the .same.
Tie deaths vesteidav. i.,t:.iii o.
er.j Kir-ater tliaii on prevloiiM dan, for
fn f-.liifuHa v. nwtnp to
., ' 1. nii ui M
Juil, theio was n Jumbling of figures for
two rtajs. The total deaths for the ejil-
Hemic were nut by the Health ii.,,i
ment MitHtlclans nt 165, of which HO States would be In the position of com
'rruried , llrooklyn. IS In Manhattan, petent adviser to nny firms desirous of
In lllibuiond, 2 in The Ilrunx nnd 2 advancing money to the Mexican Gov-
in WU-eti-i.
With the growth of the disease and
'e wo, I, ,(i done b the Health )e
Ti'riineiii to t-tamp It (n, theie was nn
' leasing tn x on the u-souices of Dr.
hnie.sniiV staff. Tlmt was shown In tlle
ttl-dM,n.. service iilone. Though there
"re thlrtv-one mink nes riimiliw into
tie Heprtitinent, there was one dour yes
"day m m litr-h 2M) peisons striving to
telephone to health officials could not
''ih th. in IH-.-.IUSH of the rougit-ted -on--Uloii
of the lines. The telephone com
t;my was called to install new trunk
' fa Immediately
l'nih...i.. . . taiiicd to It as Indicating flint the State
1 ntheile Scenes In Department. , in-partmcnt had found It convenient Just
To the observer visiting the Health 'lit this time to Inquire ns to the prob
''epartiiient the ravage, of th dl-e-tse ' able nttltude of American bankirs nnd
"'re brought pathetically home, In the ns lo the disposition of thn Fcdarnl
att'rnoon a man and his wife called nt iteserve Hoard Itself toward lending
the department carrying a baby that "'""h n''1 a" mlttht he In Its power to the
looked mp alll, iifp.g, ,ook hlt Mexican Government.
wanco tioin one of the physicians to (nil
"i"t tho child was partly paralyzed. A I
Mrni.ir uise was brought In later.
I'r Kirierson made tremendous si i-i,i
st n.,y n bringing the whole stair to I
li.n'i.r degree of nflleiency In hahdilni-
i- disease. The appeals for moie In-
'mit were sent bio.ideast and there
1-resimnses, out still nioie jiiunir doo. 1
'"fl are Heeded. Ilosilltals tbrnnehniit
.in Hive olTered iirioiiiinodatlons for
oung inyslcliins who will give their
Oostlnucrt on Biith Pag(,
AND NEW YORK
WILSON ACCEPTS
CARRANZA'S PLEA
Note to Be Sent To-dny
Pntch Up Differences
With .Mexico.
to
MEDIATION NOT NEEDED
Move to Put Southern Neigh
bor on Her Feet Financially
Is Indicated.
Washington. July . President Wll
""' Lansing lafe this afternoon ai d I
, ft wUh thj underst.indlnir tlm ,ht.
crisis had passed. I
ov.rliiok the harsh words contained In'
m - ent communications exchanged. ;
The tntus of the diplomatic negolla-i
Hons will revert back to the situation
as It existed prior to the rupture of the
conferences at Kl Paso between Gen.
Scott and Gen. Obregon. In fact there
Is already some suggestion of these con-
fereuces, or others similar to them, being
No attempt will lie maae oy uie un.ir i
smies to aruue or leopen the many dlf-
ferences between the two Governments
Jn tho note to be sent to-morrow. This '
..,,, .nUaiii.n It Is explained, will be
drawn) of the American troops irurn
northern Mexico will not be definitely
...i.h. It Is understood, but It Is In-
gradual re-
force.
that Car-
Via rtn
Hon of Pershing's force near the north
ern boundary line until his own troops
can dominate that region.
Heaewal of the Itevolt.
. . i n vntnllonArv activity
1 . en.i ranch fifteen
ranzas irooi- , . i
miles soutnwesi oi jiuiine,
" .7 . ...... x .....i. l.nl I linn fnl-
olutlonary activity In northern Mexico
1,. .iin,in,.H in one stroke.
h. eliminated in one stroke.
Army officers here refuse to credit the
report that Villa Is alive and south of
Parral. American officers who have
known Villa said to-day that It was Uielr
positive conviction ho waH dead.
imr.nfr th ntiestions Concerning the
solution of the. Mexican problem which -
KtnteH and Mexican Govern
mcntH will probably conMder Inter on lij
t, A..uir.iiiiv nf pnnnuraclntr financial
111c Kncnuiii;
loans to Mexico.
Secretary Lnnslng wns asked about
ti.iu nnd Indicated that the United
ernmerit. For the present suen loans
would not lie encouiaged. but It was In
dicated that the United Slates would be
glad to see nny efforts made to put Mex
ico 011 lis feel financially as soon as con
ditions made It sa'e for financiers to ex
tend a helping hand.
A Hltrnlflrant Conference.
Counsellor Polk had a conference late
to-day with Henry T. Fletcher, desig
nated to be Ambassador to Mexico, and
Paul M. Warburg of the Federal Iteserve
, Hoard. The object of the intetlng was
1 not disclosed, but significance wns at-
Mr. Arreuonuo saia io-nigni mm no
did not expect to ti.ke up the question
of arranging credit for his Government,
but would leave tlmt to Dr. Alfiedo
Cntuiegll. Gen. Cnrraiuas flnanclal
'iK,',d stationed at New ork.
U Is believed here that the iiestlon of
constructive mensures to stablllzo the
xicmii i- -
Hire 1110 i:'iii.t'.-ti"-'' n,. i-i --e-
very far, The Washington Administra
tion Is understood to be. as firmly con
vinced as ever that tho nnly pioper and
Continurit on Third Vagt,
MARRIED GUARDSMEN
MAY NOW BE RETIRED
Order, Issued Leaves the De
cision of Cases to Depart
ment Commanders.
Wabihnoton, July 6. An order to de
partment commanders authorizing them
t discharge married militiamen with
dependent families was Issued to-day
by Secretary linker. The conditions
under which the discharges will he made
n nil the requirement that will tiring en
listed men within the scope of the order
will be left to commanders to deter
mine. It Is expected the decision will dis
pose of one of the most difficult prob
lems presented by the mobilization of
the mllltla, the burden of which fell on
the men themselves. It Is also nn In
dication that the Department nun no
Intention of mustering out llio mllltla
for some time, although the tension
caused by the Mexican situation has re
laxed appreciably.
The discharge of men with dependent
families will not have a marked effect
In the way of reducing the strength of
the mllltla forces. War Department otft.
clals said. Department commanders
were also authorized, at their own dis
cretion, to waive physical defects In offi
cers nnd enlisted men of the National
Guard.
Senator Chamberlain, chairman of the
Semite Military Committee, said to-night
he expected no further action on the
mllltla relief hill
The Department order Is a very wise
one," he said, "and Is carrying out the
original Idea of the Senate In Its amend
ment to the House drafting resolution.
The relief bill passed later by the House
Is now In the Military Committee, but I
think the committee will decide to hold
up the llouo hill to see what tho effect
of the War Department's order will be."
N. Y. TO CALL MORE MILITIA.
Whitman Tells linker lie Will
Authorise .New Division.
Washinoton, July 6 It was an
nounced to-night that Gov. Whitman of
New York had advised Secretary of War
linker that he would authorize the re
cruiting at once of a new Infantry di
vision of the National Guard to take the
place at homo of the First Division,
which has been mustered Into the Fed
eral service.
The new division ! to be known ns the
Second Division, and the command ban
been tendered to Major-lien. Daniel Ap
plcton. This means that there are to
he more than 12.000 additional National
liuardsmen recruited In this State.
SEVENTEEN DEAD IN STORM..
Million of Hollar llamaur He-
lortnl r rom t.alf t.ltles.
xkw Oiii.kan. July fi. Ixjsm of at
least seventeen lives ami property d.im-
,,K(. wMch may total several millions of
dollars icsulted from the troplc.il storm
which swept the east gulf coast Wednes
day and tinned Inland to-day
All the deaths nilried up' to to-night !
occurred near Ilelolt, Ala., where seven
teen negroes lost their lives. Several re
sorts along the coast lu the vicinity of
.Moliile had not l.-en heaid from,
said It was not nearly so great.
Damage In Pensarola was said to have
been confined largely to the waterfront
and shipping In the harbor. The maxi
mum wind velocity was reported ut 104
miles an hour.
Laurel, Miss., reported that the prop
erty losa there would aggregate $1!00,000.
Jacksuu and Meridian rcvortcd onslder
able damage to crop and farm buildings.
THOUSANDS WANT TO JOIN T. R.
nel. II. Post Detuned With Appli
cations for Knllstmenl.
Col, Itoosevell's division of volunteer
soldiers (In the event of war with Mex
ico) is piling up 11 huge amount of
work for Kegls H. Post, former Governor-General
of Porto Itlco, to whom
the Colonel has turned over nil the mall
on that subject that is pouring Into tho
Metropolitan nfllces.
I m In a wastepaper basket up to my
mrl ' tnmenterl Mr. Post veslerdav.
-Tl,nnwf.n,lu if nnrunns u.x,i tit hiive
heard about the Colonel's division, and
r,i nlinnt the Colonel's division nnd
we are trying to drive them away with
dubs. All we can do is to open the let
ters, keep track of the names nnd later
perhaps send the writers a postal card
'thank you.' "
LIEUT. ADAIR'S FATHER DIES.
Parent Kept Ignorant of I lie Kate
of Ills Son.
Haiti.ivii Ore .lull- ll Without
knowing his son met death on tho Car-
rlzal battlefield. Samuel Adair, aged 63,
father of Lieut, Henry Hodney Adair,
died to-dny after a long lllninf. Ills
last words were for his son.
"Henry Is now a captain," he said.
"Henry has received his promotion."
Lieut. Adnlr was to have been made
other so le eVCranhed t, F ' so to ' "" behalf of tne
f .Se tti brlr1. body bel"-cr' lers In whose favor the will
Hi .'..hJi , m 1 .nn fnhiSlwas made. She was cross-examined I y
captain July 1. Morris Adair,
wnt here. Father nnd son piobably
will be buried nt the same time.
J. R. KEENE'S HOME ROBBED.
Hurfclara Get a.i.oon Worth of
Jewelry IlurlnK Card Party.
LAwnKNOK, L. I,, July ". Wlillo a
card party was In progress last night
at the home of the lute Jnnien It. Keene,
more than Ki.OOrt worth of Jeavelry was
stolen fioin tho bedroom of Miss Dorothy
ri. :
,i.,f ,,'
Timor, his grniKld.iUKIiter.
bery was revolted to Police Chief Hyan
by l-oxhnll Keene.
Among the nrtlcles stolen were a luhy
ring wilh Mo diamonds valued at (1,200,
two diamond rings valued at 11,000 each,
one ring with two diamonds, tin enamel
watch nnd chain valued at $U0, a gold
watch valued at (SO, a put with three
sapphires and two pearls, another pin
with six pearls and one pair of pink cur
lings. Ilrroril nay for Customs.
Tho total u-celpls for duties at the
Custom House yesterday were $1,011,.
231,05, the biggest since the beginning
of the war. More than llflo.non wns for
sugar. Of the total $111,408.70 was for
merchnndlsn withdrawn from bunded
warehouse." nnd $82,882,ar. for recent
importations.
N. Y. TO FIGHT FOR
nnnmi rinmimn nnnn
Inheritance Tax About $5,
000,000, Against Only
91,250 in Vermont.
NEW LAW AID TO STATE
Seventeen Thousand Heirs of
Gideon .lowland Entitled
to Share 91,500,000.
New York State Is going to tight to
have Mrs. Hetty Orcen declnred a legnl
resident here so that the Stale Comp
troller can collect upward of $t,000.000
as an Inheritance on her estate, which l
estimated at J125.000.O0O. Evidence Is
already being assembled despite the fact
that the will has been tiled for probate
In llellovvs Kails, Vt. That State
through a peculiarity of Its Inheritance
laws can get but $1,210 as a total tax.
The State, If succeMful. will collect
tne largest Inheritance tax In Its history.
The largest collection neretofore was
I3.1CO.000 on the estate or John Jacob
A st or.
It Is assumed by the Comptroller's
stafT that Col. Kdward II. II. Green and
Mrs. Matthew Astor Wllks, the execu
tors, are prepired to resist pament of
the tax nnd that they will endeavor to
convince the courts that Mrs. Green re
garded Bellows Falls, Vt., as her legal
domicile. The tiling of the will for pro
bate at Hollows Kails was the tlrst step.
It Is thought, toward contesting the pay
ment of an Inheritance tax to New Vork.
Attention va. called jesterday to th
fact that amendment to the Inheritance
tax law enacted last May puts the State
authorities In a better position than
they were In under the old law.
Provisions of the New l.nn.
"Hvery person s' ad be deemed to
have died a resident, and not a non
resident, of fnc State' of New York."
reads the new law, "If and when such
person shall nave dwelt or shall have
lodged In this State during and for the
greater part of any period of twelve
consecutive months in the twenty-four
months next preceding bis or her death
and also if and when by formal written
instrument executed within one yenr
prior to his or her ..eath or by lnt will
he or she shall have declared himself)
or herself to be a resident or a citizen i
of this State, notwithstandltiK that from
nine io time during such twenty-four
months such person may have sojourned I
ouisiae or mis Hiate. - -me nur-1
Inir shall be unon thn.,e elalndn? exeinn-
"on by reason of the alleged non-resl-!
cience or the deceased
Col. Green return. d to this city rs-
torday from Hellows Falls. Ho had
nothing to say about tho possibility of
resisting the Inheritance tax payment,
but he gave the news that there will be
a contest of peculiar Interest, not agnlnft
ih win hni n enni.si fAe th riivi.in., f
the will hut a contest fir the division of
a part of Hetty Green's estate, In which
neither he nor his sister, Mrs. Wllks.
has the slightest real Interest, he said.
There An 17,000 Heirs.
Away hack In H32 Gideon Howlnnd,
who wns a grcnt uncle of Hetty Green,
died, leaving $1,500,000 to his daugh
ter, Sylvia Ann. who In turn left the
principal to Hetty Green on condition
that the principal should revert to
Gideon Howland's heirs at Hetty Green's
death.
"There nre nt least 17.000 heirs." said
Col. Green yesterdny. "Those old New
Hedford fellows were great on having
big families. Old Gideon bad thirteen
chlldien himself, nnd every blessed one
of them married nnd reared a big fnm-
lly. My sister and I know of one line
directly descended from Gideon Howianil
which includes 4,000 Heirs, mere are
only two In our line, my sister and my
self, and we will not, or course, oppose
the division of the l.f'OO.OOO among the
I COIlteStailtS.
I fol. Green said there would be no con
test of tho wilt and that it would be
admitted to probate on July 22.
AFFIRMS NORDICA'S WILL.
War .Nurse Tells How Singer Wrote
Contested Doeunienl.
FREKllot-n. N. J.. July 6. Miss Sadie
Charlotte MacDonald, a Itrltlsli war
nurse who received a month's furlough
by the War Ofllce to come here and tes
tify in the litigation over the estate of
Lillian Nordlca, took the stand here to
day as one of the witnesses to the
ringer's will mndo on Thursday Island
In the South Seas where she was taken
In January, 19H, from a shipwreck on
the Australian coast.
Miss MacDonald was matron of the
Torres Strait Hospital, where Mine. Not
counsel for (ieorge W, Voung, husband
of Mine, Nordlca, who was the ben .
flclary under nn earlier will and who In
stituted the contest over the estut-.-.
BILL POSTING TRUST SMASHED.
Federal Court Orders Dissolution
of Combine by September I,
CutciAiio, July 6, Judge Lnndls to-day
entered the formal decree dlsolvlng thu
I Associated Hill Posters and Distributors
,( the United Slates and Canada. Tho
decree conforms with the derision he
gave two months ago In which he or
dered the members of the Illll Posters
Association to disband and cease doing
business as a trust.
Thu operation of tho decree was sus
pended until September 1. It prohibits
the defendants from agreeing In nny
way to maintain prices or to limit the
number of poisons who may engage In
the bill posting business or hinder them
In any way whatsoever. It provides
that no competitor shall be restricted In
any way from doing business with bill
posters not members of tho organiza
tion. The decree further enjoins the defend
ants from Inducing manufacturers of
stock or posters not to sell their goods
In open competition to any and all purchaser.
0SB0RNE renamed as
WARDEN OF SING SING
Dr. Kirchwey Will licmain at
Prison and Assist in Its
Administration.
Warden Kirchwey of Sing Sing has
handed In his resignation and Thomas
Mott Osborne will he reinstated as
warden on July 16. This was tho an
nouncement made by Stale Superinten
dent of Prison Cnrler last night.
Mr. Carter ca.no to the city jesterday
and conferred with Messrs. Kirchwey
and Osborne. He dined with Warden
Kirchwey at the Hotel lllltmnre and
later gave out the following statement :
"The Hon. James M. Carter. Statu
Superintendent of Prisons, announces
that George W. Kirchwey has handed
In his resignation ns warden of Sing
Sing prison to take effect on the rein
statement of Thoniai Mott Oslsirne, and
that Mr. Osborne will be renpio!ntl to
his old ofllce nnd will resume the duties
of warden of the prison on July 10.
"The Superintendent also announces
that he has Invited Dean Kirchwey to
become associated wilh him in the gen
eral administration of the Prison De
partment and that Dean Kirchwey has
accepted the Invitation."
Mr. Carter said Mr. Osborne would
be given free rein to try out all his re
foims at Sine Sing.
Warden Kirchwey told the news to
members of the Mutual Welfare League,
who cheered for Osborne.
The warden, In a statement Issued by
his secretary, Sjienrer Miller, said the
reinstatement was n victory for prison
leform In this State and that nil Intel
ligent people have regarded the attack
on Mr Osborne as virtually a political
one.
PLANS PRISONERS' REGIMENT.
Commissioner Lewis Orders War
dens to Ask for Vnlnnteers.
Commissioner of Correction llurdetto
G. Lewis Issued nn order jesterday to
wardens of prisons under him to ask for
volunteers among the Inmates for a regl
iii lit to serve in Mexico If there Is n
rail. This Is the first time a regiment
of prisoners has been even planned.
A law prohibits enlistment of convicts
In the United States anny In rase of
a call for volunteers. Commissioner
Lewis will nsk the War Department to
waive this law for his regiment. All
told there nre about .".r.OO inmates In the
five iienltentiarles and workhouses un
der his Jurisdiction. Many of the keep
ers have had military training, and
would drill tho volunteers.
RUSSIA AND JAPAN ALLIES.
.sign Contention to Mnlnlnlu l.ast
Inrc Peace In Par Kast.
Petiioorap, July C, via Ixindon, July 7.
A Husso-Japanese political convention
of two articles was signed to-day by the I
Jtusslan
Minister of Foreign Affairs,
-"erglus Sazanoff, and the Japanese Am
hassador. llaron Ichiro Motono.
The object of the convention Is to
unify the efforts of the two countries to
... ... .
maintain a lasting peace In the Far
Kast.
Tlle riiar.,, commenting on the Husso-
..,,, .., i .,... .
JPnesc convention, says;
"The agreement Is tantamount to a
formal nlliance, the main objects of which
nre the maintenance of peace awl the
safeguarding of the special Janan.zc and
Itusslan rlghla nnd Interest In the Far 1
Fast.
'The respective nlllm of Itus-da
and
J.ipin have heen Informed of the agree.
ment and have expressed their satisfac
tion with It."
BATTLE STOPPED TO SAVE DOG.
German Leaves Trent-lies In Itracne
One Wonnded !' Ilelulans.
Dr. K. V, Morrow of Portland. Ore.,
who arrived from France by the French
liner Itochainbeau several days ago and
' Is stopping at tho McAlpin Hotel, was
for eighteen months chief operating sur
geon at the hospital at La Panne, Hel
glum, and received the decoration of
King Leopold.
Dr. Monow was nt the battle front
when a dog ran toward the llelglaii Hues
fiom tho German trenches, A shot
broke Its leg, This message from the
German trenchis cum- over:
"We are men fighting each other.
There Is no reason why wo should kill
dumb animals."
Then a husky Teuton stepped out of
a trench, picked up the dog and took It
back. A minute later tho battle was
lesumcd.
PAWNS JEWELS TO FLEE.
Mother anil Fle Children Iteneh
llnlllniore Safely.
IIaI.TIMOUK, July f.. An exodus of
anxious parents from New- York to this
city began to-day when a New Vork
woman, nccomp.iiiled lu- her son, nurses.
nut butler, nrrlved at Union Station en
1 .mite .0 Hue,,,, Vista
, Later In the day Mis. Annie Neumann
' of New Vork arrived with her five ehll-
dieii, the youngest of whom was 10
months nnd the eldest S years. Shu de.
dared that the disease was spreading
with such rapidity that she decided to
flee.
Not having the necessary money she
pawned her wedding ring, n necklace
and bracelet and purchased tickets for
herself and children. She went without
lood all day so that her children might
cat, She was taken to the home Qf her
brother on North Gay street.
STILLMAN BACK THRILLED.
Financier llnthusliistle Over War
Devotion of French Women,
James Htlllnmn, formerly president of
the National City Hank, who went to
KuroM to recuperate, returned yesterday-
hy ' the Hollnnd-Aiiierlca liner
Nleuw Amsterdam, thrilled will, admira
tion for the women of Frniue. lie said
they wero marvellous, surpassing thn
men in their heroism and devotion,
Dr, Harry Plot of Mount Slual Hn.
pltnl, who has been experimenting In
Serbia, llulgnrln, Austria and iliisshi
with an anti-typhus scrum ho dlscnv
etcd, also arrived by the Nleuw Amster
dam, wlll his assistant, Dr. Haehr, Ho
hull! laboratories and distributed the
serum, which he says saved thousands
of lives.
PRESS
500 SEE BATHER i
KILLED BY SHARK:
Charles Uruder Attacked by
Man Eater Off Ilcach at
Spring Lake, N. .1.
BOTH LEAS KITTEN OFF
Several Women Faint as Life.
Ouards Hear the Dying '
Man to Shore.
SrniNn Lake, N. J., July fi. -I'luulei
Uruder. young, vigorous, one of the
strongest swimmer, along the beiiih
oame from the pavilion In front of the
New Monmouth Hotel this afternoon at
the popular bathing hour, wailed through
the ebb tide surf, where scores of per
sons were frolicking, and struck out for
the deep water beyond tho life lines,
More than C00 persons were sunning
themselves on the sands or dipping In
the breakers.
Suddenlj- a woman screamed. Then
Inarticulate she ran toward George White
and Chris Anderson, the life guards.
They looked seaward. Hruder's head
and shoulders wero no longer to be
seen bobbing up and down. In a second
or two aa the life guards stared Uruder
reappeared, one arm Hung up, his mouth
open ns If he were trying to shout. All
around him the hue of the water was
changing from blue to red.
The woman found her voice. Her
cries startled bathers nnd loungers.
"He has UIet !" she scren tiled. "The
man In the red canoe Is upset!"
Almost tfnroiiseloas.
White and Andetson, already shovliK
their boat Into the suif, knew that til
led blot on the water was not a lellec
tlon from an overturned canoe. They
had r-cen Uruder forging Into tho long
rollers. They guessed an they drove
their boat toward him what they would
llnd when the, reached him.
White, leaning from the bow of the
boat, gripped Hruder's arm. The man's
ejis wete closed. Ho was nearly un
conscious. With wli.it llttlo Btiength he
had left he whiskered :
"Hhark shark t?ot m bit my legs
err:"
He fainted. The life guards raised his
bodj- Into, the boat, nnd found It a Uvht
and ensy task. Itrudtr wan only n piece
of a man. Ills left lig had been mapped
off clean Just nbove this knee. Tlio right
leg had been severed Just In-low tin- knee.
Under bis left arm there was a tash
willed Mnk to the rib bones where the
shark bad made Its first snatch at the
swimmer.
... .,,,- ,S, , . . .1 ,
In them, laid Uruder on a linen coat
offered by a woman who shut her eyrs
as she gave It, and did their best to
keep a spark of life in the man so
terribly hurt. Soinolmdy had run for
the hotel doctor, but long before he
could ret to the bench Uruder was
dead. He lived scarcely ten minutes
after he was attacked. The doctor was
needed though, because several women
bad fainted.
Motorhont 011 Watch.
Tile young man had been employed at
the Kssex and Sussex Hotel as 11 bell
Imy and had woikeil ln various hotels
"ro lor inmost twenty j-ears. Mnl or
the regular visitors to Spring Iike knew . budget, that of IHO?, designed to over
turn by sight. Little is known about mine n prospective deficit of sonie 1(1..
htm, howevtr. except that he was
j ears old nnd that a brother lives in
Lucerne, Switzerland.
Col. W. G. Schaulllcr of Gov. Fielder's
staff has called a meeting of resort of
ficials to. morrow- to consider wavs and
means of establishing a motorboat patiol.
It Is realized that unless something Is
done ocean bathing will be shunned. To.
night two or t li re.- motorboats eipilppeil
with searchlights are slipping to and fro
past tlle hutch scouting for tho shark.
To-morrow a licet of 9111,1!! boats will bo
shark hunting,
Actual inst.iiues of death, or Injury
from sharks are tale along this coast.
Twenty-five years ago the late Her
mann Oelrlchs olfered n reward of .', 1)
to any nnu who could prove to him that
ja bather had actually been attacked by
n snara, 1 ne lewaiu was never ciaiincu.
DR. RICE TO EXPLORE AMAZON.
Wife Will A i-i-ii mini 11 Explorer nn
Ills lllti-r Trlii.
NcwroKT, Jllij li. Dr, Alexander
Hamilton Hlce, who with Mrs, Itlco is
nt their summer homo here, Is planning
to stmt in the fall for .1 tilp nlong the
Amazon Hlver In lliazil. The explorer
will be accompanied by .Mrs. Hlie. The
trip, which Is expected to occupy sev
eral months, will be made upon a jaeht
that will be especially prepaied for the
voyage.
Dr, lllce, surgeon, scientist and South
American explorer, n-celved the pntmns'
medal of the ltoy.il Geographical Society
,don
laS!l I
time It
for his work lu tin- wilds of
ill in07-t:in.s. when for a long
wns feared he was lort. On
hlx return he announced that he had
, reached the headwatciH of thn Oilnoco
, nnd had found the sourie of the lilu
Negro,
Dr, Hlce, who Is a Harvard graduate,
married Miss Eleanor Elklnj Wldener,
widow of George D. Wldener, a Titanic
victim, on October 0, 1915,
MRS. WAITE GAINS FREEDOM.
Mnrderer's Wife Una Marrltme tn
lilllled In Mlctilunn.
Giianii ItAriliH, Mich., July ii A de- I so-called 'pouring lite,' using aiiimunitlo-,
creo of annulment of marriage tiwlavlof Japanese and American oilgln."
was granted to .Mrs, Clara Louise Peck
of ,pr; A,r,l,ur Wtrien NO BENCH SEAT FOR GREGORY
Wnlte, The man is In Sing Sing under ,
sentence of death for the murder of Ills ... ,. , ,.
father-in-law. John E. Peck of Grand ! ''' !""
Haplds. , lliiuhra's Place.
.nre. 11 auc, 111 peiiunTiing ior annul- ,
i annul -
in.- V '
hrr r""-
ment or ncr marriage, alleged tn
resorted to fraud In obtaining her
sent to marry him,
I.oa AllKi'lea Post for Mitels,
Los ANnta.r.s, Cal., July fi Dr v,
bert Shlels, illreelor of refeience an I r
search 111 tho New York public s.-liool--wus
elected stiperlnlendent of thn Lor
Angeles schools to-day for lour veirs .
1. salary of $S,000. lie will take chitrzo
feptcmber 1.
m JA
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaV aaaaaS '
iK .H i
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaam's'A ataaaaaV '
-xaaaaeaaalHaVaaasa aTaaaaaaaTB
.. '
David Lloyd George,
LLOYD GEORGE IS "
SECRETARY OF WAR
Man Who Solved Munitions
Crisis Is Appointed to
Succeed Kitchener.
London, July B. David Lloyd (ieorge
h.i been nppolnted Secretary for War.
Sir Kdward (Irej-, the Secretary for
,. , .-.I. ,
Foreign Affairs, has Wen made an Karl.
The Karl of Derbj-. Director of lie-
SWaT" n""olnu,1 Under Sec -
Th- son of n poor Welsh schoolmaster
whose every step upward has been the
result of his own nTorts, has now, at the
ige of !iS, been chosen to succeed as head
of tho War Office one of the greatest gen
erals England has had In a hundred
j enrs.
When Great llrltnln entered the Eu
ropean war the Itrltlsh Government and
public alike turned to Iird Kitchener to
head the War nfllre. When Lord Kitch
ener was lost with the cruiser Hampshire
Oh June 5 nit.iln the public turned to one
man as Inevitably his succet-or David
Llojvl George.
Although In pre-war days a strong ad
vocate of a reduction of armaments
L'nyd George l a born fighter. As a
boy. cut off from tin- ministry ns .1 pro
fission because, like nil Campbellltes. he
did not believe In a paid clergy, lie de.
elded upon the law, learned Latin from
the village schoolmaster and French
from his uncle, lttclianl Llnvd. a shoe.
maker, who himself had to learn the! While the situation hi the Veillll
language before he could teach his n,s remains comiuitatlvol.v illli
nephew. He was art cled to a firm of ., , ...
solicitors and began practice at the age there ate heavy bombardments nn
of 22. reporting for newspapers while , both sides of the Mouse. No ml
w,,.l."n.'!..f"r.y"';"t.H-... , . ..Ivnnces aro recorded by either French
vtf- rin H"i ill l iju lit lilt- I1UWM' 1
of Commons, when- he became 11 fol
lower of Gladstone
When Mr. Asipilth became Premier In
I?"1?, Llojd George was promoted to be
( lianceiior of the Exchequer. Ills first
000,000, a budget which ho described
a "war budget against poverty," caused
dismay among iln.incl.-il Interests and
the moneyed classes generally, and the
House of Lords held It up. The Gov
ernment appealed to the country nnd
was retained lu
was ndnnfed.
offlce.ai.d (he budget
Tho controversy over the insufficient
supply of modern high explosive shells
for the army In France brought on a
Governmental crisis, which wns finally
adjusted by the placing of Lloyd George
at the head of a new 1lep.11 tment, the
M.nlstry of Munitions, Thus he shared
with laud Kitchener the win Is the latter
had been doing, and left the War Sec.
letary free to prosecute Ids recruiting
campaign. The suci ess of Lloyd George
III remedying the shoitago of nmmiinl-
tlon Is shown In the tremendous Itrltlsli attneUs of the Hlisslnn, Thev mil
Vlui:;;;Z"!!!V ',r,,H,",,.rMlo mi an advance by tho itrliNi
NAMED FOR BOY-ED'S PLACE.
Huron Inn -uiireleiis-Grniioy
I 11111I11V 10 Wnahlnutiiii,
thi:ns. via London, July 7 (Frnlae,
t i A M ) II. nop v-on' Sen.irclens.
Grancj Naval Attn' lie to the German
Legation In re. his bee,, t, ausfe, red to
Washington, vvhete he will talte the pi u-o
of Cap,. Kurl Hoy-Ed
llaron Grancy had been active ln the
wmk of r.-vleiimllhnr sui,n,,r 1...
astern Mediterranean and directing
their movements.
! .
RUSSIANS FIGHT IN 17 LINES.
fiunnrrsi
I 1
1
.Inpnm-ae nnil I'reiieli
D I reel Murderous
I.onisin, July 7 ( Friday. ."
A M.)
dispatch to the .Woi adii, 1'osl from ltud.t.
..-i i,ioii--i a iiuug.iriau correspondent news from Petrograd Is I, ighlv important
on the eastern front as saying , n tle light of the S.annie bntile The
"The Itusslan strength exceed" anv- news that the Hiis'lnns have captured
thing seen In thN war heretofoie. In S.OOO prisoners on the Dnlesti r front np
some ruses they stormed our positions In I pears to leave little doubt of the col
lows seventeen lines deep and their ar-1 lapse of the Austrian fnrci s between
tlllery was so absolutely perfect tliai -io I Huczacz find Stanlslaii, ivhl-li will
troops could dream of standing up to It. I Kriatlv affect the anny of Urn vnn
.much or tho artillery consists of
. .lapanese guns manned by Japanese nnd
I French otlicers Thev oft en einiilnv- tl lit
, wHiilNiiTiiv. .Ililj 0 ..Sltoine.v..n-
Gregory l" " I'" '""" ' t)i it
In- Is not now under . onsnli ratio,, for
1 the vacancy 111 the S'lipn 1110 I'oiut bench
, 1 tented ll) the 11 slgnallo,, of Asiofl.ltc
1 lustice Hiuhes. Tin I'resldent had de.
elded to appoint Ml' Gregnn dt'sp.te ob
ject ions i.iIsm! ngalnst him
The ltoruej -Heneial Is uriler-dond to
have declined the app intineni because
a - a Justice lie would hr excluddl fnnn
passing on many pending o.w nhlch
hu hel
Ipeii prep.ii.- foi tne i.ov ci um:a:,
RAPID FRENCH .
DRIVE ALTERS
GERMAN PLAN I
Tuitions Now Concent rate
South of Sonum- to
Save rcronne.
500.000 AUSTRIA XS
PUT OUT OF ACTION
Vienna Admits Withdrawal
of Line in (rulicia. Five
Miles West
VON HOTiniEU'S ARMY
IN SinUOUS DANGEK
Russians Sweep On West of
Koloniea. Threaten
ing Lemherg.
Vlnli-ni tmiuti'i' iittuckM ly the (Jfr
minis on nltnnst the entire line of thu
French nilvniicc In the Snmmo region
show ti chnnge In the situation from
the on rl lor iln.vs of tin.1 Anglo-French
offensive.
In the beginning the tiennnns con
centritinl their force ngnlnit the
Itrltlsli, nppnrently considering tho
operations of the. French to the south
f snuill significance. !ut the
, , ...... , .
rapid movement of the French troops.
together with the Importance of their
;ohjectlve. hiis httil the effect of chnng-
i lug the German view nnil cnuslng the
,
I Gorman (oiiiiiiiuiilers to .strengthen
their defences nnil fprres nlong tlte
line guarding l'eronne 11ml other Im
portant strategic points.
Both ends of the French line Wave
been under heavy tit tucks, hut the
French, according to the offk-itil no
counts, have noon utile, tit roptiNo
them, without the Germans mikltc
any gains whatever. Meanwhile both
French nnd Itrltlsli nre consolidating
their positions ami are uiidoiilitoill
making preparations for a repetition
of the great bombardment which pre-
1 . .,. , i.,,,.,. 1,
M ,lie ,llst ImiH'tlloils rush.
or Germans.
The Immensliv nf the ltti--luti
drive against tho Anstiians and Get-
j mans during tho last month Is In
dicated by unofficial reports fnnn
Petrogratl, which say that the Austi-u-German
losses, lu the endeavor t"
May tho advance of Gen. llruslolT'
armies, total nearly half a million
men, about half of whom aro prison
! N()t ,,sS ,,, ..- ,,f
"" """ '"ore man ii" liliiciiuio
gnus and an Iiiiuioiim1 iiuatuiiy of
other booty have been taken.
The Austrian admit a sorbin de
feat west of Koloiiien, whore tho.v
were driven back Hourly the mile
The Germans admit Hie withdrawal
of Gen. vnn ltothuier's nvmy lu the
Tnrnopol sector before the powerful
south of Thlepvnl,
.one.
In Ibe vvi'sleru
ALUh'S I'llh'l'Mil-: FUlt
RKSKWAL OF HATTI.F
Conaollilnli- Positions for eeonil
Phase of soniine Drive,
LoNpM.x-, July f - The results of ti.
stuff conferences of the Allies 111 London
1 In May and June nre becoming contln-
"'illy "I'l'-ifnt In Hie i-onidlnatlon
I f the allied attacks on tbc ieiitonic
.forces and Increasing evidence that the
Initiative Is vnsslng from the Teutons to
the Allies at almost nil points
As the French nnd llritish arm e are
now engaged 111 reorganizing and picpar.
lug for the Fecolid phase of the battle of
Ibe Sonime. there Is a eonipatative lull
Von the western front nnd Itussm ngain
I n.kea the centre of the state
To-diiv 's
j poionicr. ciunpi llmg him to r ttu- north.
i ward, while fie ndva,i'-e on Del.itln an
I llio I.. 1 1 111 .if Hn- railway cms off v,,n
Hothmer fl"Ui tin- chief base of supplies
!
: llrlllsh llenll l.iiunueil.
th- mtti-u ri ate suit henviij ,..
all along their fiom. riom n.u.Ie.
J',,. ,n ipiniiu.-court Notw Ith.taiidli.
l"r,n "n counter attacks they havv
, ' .1,,,. i,, niuntatu all the gioui.d
1 gamed, and extend It at some points,
A- "'" 'rnian t, inches a. e occupied
evidence iccuniu t. s o the deadly er.
otion of the nit'is ty in nunc c,ie,s s,,
l.- tent of tl'' dilendus iliii. I.Uhd b
the ten ill' sm.'ui; I" wli.ell they Ci,.
suhj.-i lei tin' Ii I v"'J I'eitalli
formatloi's be" 1 "" attaik dc-
f, i mien "a " s-ill x 11 lualiied un.
dun, igid, surr.' id be.iMlj nthcis cap
lined tin P"s ' " had b. en sit ns
thrlrnhjrof.il' 11' bglu losxn
lilu - i '. 't he ;,ri'a
