iwiiijiwpiiitiiwtwaiiMtW'W
"BRPiWppWWiM
"w mw'-Mwuwwv'iB jwmi'-'-,ywaiWBiJiWPJ iipjifHiwp'Biii'w"'i'"-y
FINANCIAL EDITION
ti
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituentn
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II. NO. 254
PHILADELPHIA, F1MDAY, .JULY 7, 1910.
v COM1IO!1T, 10 10. Bt THE PcBLtO LEDan COUPAHT.
.,niiwiwmwppiffH"
c
U. S. WARNED
BY CARRANZA
6F VILLA RAID
Mexican Army, Beaten,
', Looks to Americans to
' Shield Border
TROOPS READY FOR DASH
"
Bandit Reported on Victorious
Rampage Headed To
ward North
Border Towns Broiling
Under 114 Temperature
EL PASO, July 7. Excessive heat
is reported from towns along the
Mexican frontier today. From
Yuma, Ari., come dispatches stating
that the temperature there is 114
degrees, and .thnt this prcvoiied
throughout that section of the coun
try. Also reports from Phoenix,
ArL, give the temperature there as
110.
These temperatures convey an
idea of the intense hcntwhlch the
United States soldiers, especially
tho national guardsmen have en
countered on the border. Yuma is
near the California - Mexico line.
Added to the intense heat arc the
blinding dust storms on the Mexican
front. These, however, arc some
what abated with the approach of
the rainy season.
WASHINGTON, July 7 Mexican Ambassador-designate
Arredondo, acting upon
Instructions from Mexico City, today noti
fied the State Department that a InrRQ
Vllllsta band attacked the Carranza gar
rison at Corrlslltos, near Jlmlnez. State
of Chihuahua, Wednesday, almost destroy
ing It.
Fearing the band might take to the desert,
Carranza has asked tho State Department
to have the American -border watched on
the American side between Bomilllas and
Ojlnaga to prevent a raid. Carranza has
promised to do his utmost on the Mexican
side to Intercept such an attompt If made.
In order to avoid dolay the embassy
telephoned the Information to the State De
partment as -soon ds It was received, and
shortly after sent a formal written commu
nication. This new position assumed by General
Carranza and his advisers was a distinct
relief to tho United States. Orders Im
mediately were rushed- to the Various com
mandorn all along the line' to keep their
troops ready for any eventuality.
SITUATION SERIOUS.
The orders to Arredondo to announce that
the situation was serious came direct from
General Carranza. According to an of
ficial Btatepient Issued by the Mexican Em
bassy the Carranza garrison at Corralltosf
was almost "destroyed" by an attack from
the Vlllistas. Whether Villa was In per
sonal command Is not yet known, although
Administration officials feel certain that
he was.
Admission In the announcement by the
Embassy that General Carranza has agreed
to "exercise all possible vigilance" south of
the border was pleasing to officials here.
The warning was received by Secretary of
State Lansing and President Wilson while
the Cabinet was In session. It was ac
cepted as Indicating a "complete change of
heart!' by the de facto Government, and the
Cabinet" officials are understood to have
greed that, coupled with the latest declara
Jlon of principles by Carranza, It Indicated
that there would be no obstacle raised In tho
way of a complete settlement of the Issues
at stake by diplomatic measures.
In dUcusstng the communication he re
ceived from Carranza, Arredondo said:
I have brought to ne attention of
the State Department the fact that a
large band of Vlllistas attacked our
garrison at Coralitos on Wednesday,
almost destroying It. Fearing that this
band might try to penetrate the desert
as far as the border and cause further
difficulties between Mexico and the
United States, General Carranza has
directed the attention of the Ameri
can Government bo that all possible
vigilance may be exercised on the
Continued on r Two, Colomn rlto
. ,. THE WEATHER
An absent-minded man entered a at,ore
in Weat Philadelphia hurriedly and said he
wanted to see a pair of gold cuff buttons.
The proprietor of the place looked at him
In amazement. Not until then dld'the cus
tomer realize that he was In a butcher's
shop. But the place was so fancy looking
that he was completely deceived. Steaks
and chops were on fancy plates surrounded
with roses, and choice bits of veal and pork
were encased )n settings of parsley and pep
pers. The whole display savored of an art
exhibition. This was no exaggeration In
view of tho prices asked for the wares
within. With the price of btef steadily
oaring. It ta not unlikely that It will
eventually reach a point at which It can be
used In an artlstla way. -An exhibition of
choice steaks, and chops may some day be
a great attraction. A. lecturer well versed
in beefology could tell the history of beef
and pork, and hark hack tq the days when
person used to eat It with their meals.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
tonight; Saturday increasing cloudu
new; moderately warm; gentle, vari
able winds.
LOST AND FOUND
POO Loot. Ensllsh letter doc. strajod from
Oil VT. Hojtttr St.. Oermaotown. evening- July
i: Howard it laturntd to oUjva addj-Mo.
RlNO Loofi Tuiir. Juno ST . a" Bent'lmnr
tstty cn4 oW rta wltn jhrou dUmgndo.
mini at Awnor. Ijr Jatan A. Ruim, iwfav..,4
miWa.
Vory liberal reward If returned to
Z313
L3 H.
Broad ft.
-tt
Othof Ton! asd VeuM i on 1'tiTf 14
MAN-EATING SHARK. OP VARIETY WHICH
Wrs-,- 'pWVi';' -7'?ff" - 'KJ'S
WS&S-tP-S1 4 . fl.'4..'l, CS.JtlsVfcJ. Si ??. LL trt ' V!WSH
fornix Mt-.-, Mwmb JxmsAJi's'f' ' ' "-' ' J ??
leMifmniiH
Bsm -wmMRkvt. (JalsMlsWBPMsffllawMHflHKg MsMsMBftfc Ji J k IMsBBLsaaaW
sHflHsiHIft f iiffifffr fflTBCTflSWIrffTira - WHsHHKLsHHIilBH
MKtmmlWBSBm-WaSSBKaBt
LHKKWnH' ?r -- WBk'fJm Pat B
KVjfv'BBEiBB ?'? I Er PralusKussHP bbHHbbHbKmS i
fc gaw-jiiu mini in i "'i"MMMMawfai.llliitifl. linn in
" I
I U. S. REPLY TO CARRANZA NOTEj
WASHINGTON, July 7. The note delivered today by Secretary Lansing to
Ambassador Arredondo in reply to that received Tuesduy from Foreign Minister
Aguilar follows:
Sir I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi
cation of July 4, 1916, in which you transcribe a note addressed to me
by the Secretary of Foreign Relations of your Government and to re
quest triat you transmit to him tho following reply:
Mr. Secretary I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of
your courteous note transmitted to me by Senor Arredondo on the fourth
instant in whjch you refer to my notes of June 20 and June 25, and to
assure you of the sincere gratification of my Government at tho frank
statement of the difficulties which have unfortunately arisen "in our
relations along the international boundary and tho unreserved expression
of the desire of your Government to reach an adjustment of these
difficulties on a broad and amicable basis.
The same spirit of friendship and of solicitude for the continuance
of cordial relations between our two .countries inspires my Government,
which equally desires an immediato solution of tho matter of difference
which hove long vexed both Governments.
It is especially pleasing to my Government thnt the de facto Gov
ernment of Mexico is disposed to give quick as well as practical con
sideration in a spirit of concord to the remedies which may be applied
to the existing condition. Reciprocating the same desire, the Govern
ment of tho United States is prepared immediately to exchange views
as to a practical plan to remove finally and prevent n recurrence of
the difficulties which have been the source of controversy.
Accept, Mr. Secretary, tho renewed assurance of my highest con
sideration. I am, sir, yours very sincerely,
ROBERT LANSING.
FIRST BRIGADE.WAITS
AT EL PASO FOR CALL
Three PhiladelphiaiRegiments at
Fort Bliss Ready to Go to
Pershing's Aid
By CARL L. ZEISBERG .
Evening Ltfotr Btaff Corre$iondmt
EL, PASO. Tex., July 7. The 1st BrI?
gade, of Philadelphia, Its tents spread ot
Camp Pershing. FprBllss. awatta orders.
'No Instructions other than those govern
ing the establishment of camps for the 1st,
2d and Jd Regiments have been recelyed
by Brigadier Qeneral Price, but It la gen
erally understood and accepted that the
three regiments comprising the brigade are
being held-ln reserve for General Pershing's
forces.
A vigorous Impression It was that the
Phlladelphla-troops made, upon the military
city of El Paso. Army regulars, civilians
and even the newspapers' 'unite in praising
their appearance and In commenting on the
superiority of the men and their equipment.
"Regulars" was tho.-common thought of .alt
who saw them until their untanned skin,
betraying- indoor work, was noted.
The three regiments, "the be$t 6oldler ma
terial In camp." 'today began a course of
light drlllBhlch Is rapidly removing the
only obstacle between them and their quail-flcatioiy-to
do the work of regulars. The
severity of the drill will be Increased grad
ually as the men "unklnk" from their long
journey. Faces and arms, 'turning red un
der the blistering yet healthful rays of an
overhead sun, were blossoming every
where. Qeneral Price today criticised the means
by which his troops were transported more
than half way across the continent, (
The guardsmen from other States were
brought here In tourist cars," he sld.
"Pennsylvania's soldiers Were forced ( to
ride In crowded day coaches with water
and light at n premium at tlraex" (
fits gold-tasseled standard was un
furled at the. southern end, of the camp,
which overlooks El Paso from the. foot of
Mount Franklin This gray peak looms
large in the clear mountain air, towering
luce a sentinel Qver trie town of yellow tents.
El Paso lies six miles to the southwos!
i
a shimmering city of smart homes
CtoitlottM og F Flop, rtotaiRe
RUSSO-JAPANESE PACT
MADE PUBLIC IN TOKIO
Neither Shall Join Any Alliance
Against Other Mutual
. Defense Included
TOKIO, July T. Japan and Russia are
now Joined In a treaty of alliance. It was
officially announced today by the Foreign
Office. The announcement says:
"The substance of the Russo-Japunese
treaty Is that neither power shall Join any
political combination against the other. It
the territorial Interests of either power "are
menaced both shall consult for their common
Interests and Joint defense."
It Is understood that subsidiary conven
tions will be published shortly. H
Japanese share brokers held a lantern
procession around the Russian embassy last
night to celebrate the event.
MAYOR AND iraiCIIOL HOLD
HARMONY CONFERENCE
General Plana for United Fight for
Party Discussed
Follqwng the plans for harmony at the
coining' election as advocated at a recent
meeting of the Republican City Committee,
Senator McNlchol and Mayor Smith had a
short conference this afternoon, in the
course of which they discussed general plans
for a united fight for the party ticket.
The Senator was one "of the Mayor's first
callers. Asked if he had sent for the Sena,
tor, the Mayor said -that he had not. "If he
is here," he added, "I want to see htm."
They conferred for about an hour. After
the conference the Senator was asked It it
had been a harmony talk.
"Ppesn't it look like harmony," he replied,
"when In the congressional district in which
I live we named a Progressive as our elec
toral choice for the Republican presidential
ballot"
Questioned aa to details, the Senator said,
"We discussed the general political situa
tion." The. Mayor admitted that politics was the
only thing discussed, but said, that the con.
ference had no significance, as they simply
talked on the general situation.
Train Bobbers Get Rich Haul
IJMA. Peru, July T- Masked men
robbed a train on the Central Railway of
Peru, getting a large um of money be
longing to tho Morococjia. Mining Company
and all passengers' money and Jewel.
mggig
igi-"- -TJi'iiitiTiriiir
INFESTS ATLANTIC
This fish, weighing COO pounds, was
caught off the Cuban coast by
Godfrey S. Mahn, tho cigar im
porter, and a boating party, which
was towed two miles before the
shark weakened. This is believed
to be one of the species now
haunting the Jersey coast.
SHARKS' RAVAGES
ON JERSEY COAST
PUZZLE TO SCIENCE
Two Fatalities at Shore
Rouse Specualtion as
to Cause ":
FISH OFFAL IS BLAMED
Presence of Sharks on Coast
of New Jersey Accounted For
IMcnhnden fishers dump food
o fish tnlcn in nets back into
waters in vicinity of Delaware
Breakwater.
2Shiftinc course of Gulf Stream
westward may have lured
tropical and deep-sea fish further in
shore one! northward.
3 Scarcity of food fish supply in
native waters compels forafj
ing in more distant regions.
4 Firinp; of preat fjuns in artil-
lery action alone; other parts
of coast forces fish to seek shelter of
many bays and harbors of Jersey
coast.
5 Submarine and other naval ac-
, tivities on European aide of
Atlantic drive sharks in greater
number to western or American
coasts.
6 Curtailment of ocean travel to
and from American ports duo
to war conditions with consequent
lessening of disturbance lures sharks
further away from usual haunts.
Savants In this city, whether of natural
history or geography and hydrography, are
profoundly Interested In tho recent fatali
ties to bathers on the New Jersey coast
through attacks by sharks.
The sharks, whose man-eating proclivi
ties cost the lives of Charles 11 Vansant,
of this city at Reach Haven last Saturday,
and Charles Bruder, a bellboy at Spring
Lake yesterday, are believed to have been
of the West Indian variety.
Authorities on the subjects mentioned
admit that at the present time they are
without sufficient Information to explain
the appearance of the eea monsters so far
Inland "and northward at a point remote
from their usual habitat. Several theories
advanced, however. And supporters and
opponents.
One of the chief reasons for the present
appearance of sharks In the vicinity of
Island Heights and other central bathing
beaches of the Jersey coast Is that the
menhaden flshera are to blame. It Is the
custom of these fleets to gather In their
great nets thousands of Rsh of all sorts
In every C3st
These are taken aboard the boats and
food fishes, in accordance with the United
States law forbidding their capture, are
thrown overboard, This operation, in many
cases. It Is raid, is not compiled with' until
the boats are virtually In harbor at the
Delaware Breakwater or the fertlllxtng
plants at Lewes. The food fish, cast back
into their native element, are consequently
unusually numerous at the mouth of Dela.
ware Bay nd In the Atlantic at places
nearby, particularly the many little bays
and inlets that mark the.' entire coast ot
New Jersey.
APPEARANCE UNUSyAL.
Whother man-eaftng sharks ever come to
temperate waters is a question which has
never been proved. Rewards have been of
fered by newspapers and scientific societies
rontlnnr4t(D parr Tv Column Three
-iiia " jil'!itfl!li.itnTTitiia
QUICK
FOSTER RETIRED FROM I. C. S. PRESIDENCY
S0RANTON, Pn., July 7. Thomas J. Foster, founder of the In
ternational Correspondence Schools, failed of re-election ns president
when the board of directors met for reorganization today. Kalpti E.
Weeks, ex-president of the Scranton Board of Trade and prominent
business man, was made president. He wns appointed vice president
when local banks went to th'e rescue of the schools, some months ago.
Mr. Foster is to continue In the employ of the schools, being made
chairman of the directors.
VILLA RECRUITING AGENTS AT WORK NEAR PERFHfC
COLUMBUS. N. M., July 7. Vlllita agents five rccruTn? 'n "''
lages umth'of the American expedition's advanced Inoc. nrnvl'ii- J
torles brought here today. The marauder's rectultinpr a5cuci"fl 3ir---r
been working among the Carranslstn troops at Villa Alurmndn n'i'1
other garrisons, encouraging desertion to the bandit's leader's nrm;--They
used tho argument that Carranza Is in league with the Un'tcd
States.
AQUEDUCT RACING RESULTS
First race, 3-year-olds and up, selling, mile Rao 3, 00, E. Camp
bell, 20 to 1. 8 to 1 and 4 to 1, won; Wcnonak, 100, Garner, 0 to 5, 7
to 10 and 2 to 5, second; Jesie, Jr., 10S, -1 to l,2to 1 and even, third.
I'lmc, 1.30 4-5.
BRIDGE PAINTER HIT BY TRAIN; ONE KILLED
Dayton Dickinson, a painter, of Philadelphia, whoso address Is unknown, was
killed and Joseph Turner, of Glassboro, also n painter,, was Injured tills morning',
when they were struck by nn express train on tho Delaware River bridge at the
Mount Holly cut-off, near Glassboro. Turner was taken to the Cooper Hospital In
Camden. He Is severely bruised.
CARRIZAL HERO'S BODY ON WAY TO WASHINGTON
Kid PASO, Tex., July 7. Escorted by a detachment from tho 8th Cavalry, tho
body of Captain Charles T. Boyd, a hero of tho battle of Carrlzal, was placed aboard
n train today for shipment to Washington, D. C. K. D. Idem, of Kansas City, Mo.,
brother-in-law of Captain Boyd, accompanied the body. Tho bodies ot Lieutenant
Henry Adair and seven negro cavalrymen arc belne; held here for Instruction from
relatives. Services for tho dead were hold at an undertaking- clinpel this morning.
NEARLY $41,000 PREMIUM ON $5,000,000 LOAN
The premiums realized by the city on Hip sale of Jj,000,000 worth of .10-year
4 per cent, bonds on June 30 total $40,857.65. Sottlemimt in full for tlm loan awards
was made today by tho banking housed and Individuals who offered tho highest
premiums for tho Issuo and tho amounts paid werp deposited to the city's credit In
local depositories. The money Is now available and will be used to meet payments
on transit contracts and on other municipal undertakings.
TO EXCHANGE CIVILIAN CAPTIVES
COPiJNH.VQEN, July 7. England and Germany havo agreed to an exchange
of civilian p'isonera, according to Information received by Americans here today.
The exchange will affect many thousand Germans who were interned In Eng
land after the Lusltanla sinking, and a large number of English Civilians in Ger
man Internment camps.
WORK RUSHED ON DAMAGED GERMAN WARSHIPS
COPENHAGEN. July 7. The German men-of-war Seydlltz, Markgraf, Stutt
gart, Muuchen and Kaiser, which were damaged In the sea battle with the British
fleet off Jutland, are In the shipyards on the Elbe River being repaired. The navy
workmen are under orders to work at top speed.
90 MISSING; $2,000,000 LOSS IN GULF HURRICANE
NEW ORLEANS, July 7. More than 90 persons missing, one steamship and
several sailing craft lost and property damage exceeding J 2,000,000, Is the estimated
toll of the 8&-mlle gale that started along the Gulf coast last Wednesday. Details
of the losses are drifting in as communication Is re-established with outside points.
Heavy damage was done sailing craft and steam vessels in Mobile harbor. Four
persons, two of them whites, are known to have been drownod. It is feared others
may havo perished. The damage throughout the city proper, it is believed, will be
about $250,000.
WEST PHILADELPHIA WATER PROBLEM SOLVED
There wllf be no muddy and vlli smelling water In West Philadelphia after
today. Chief Careton E. Davis, of the Water Bureau, made that assertion this
afternoon Jn reply to Inquiries concerning the poor water in this section of the
rlty. He said the George's Hill reservoir, which supplies West Philadelphia, was
out of service for a month while a leak was being repaired, The repairs were com
pleted yesterday, but before turning the water flow from the Belmont pumping
station into the basin he had placed a large supply of hypochlorite in it, and the
11 rat supply ot water carrie-1 with It the sediment which had formed In the bottom
of the basin.
NEGRO PAYS DEATH PENALTY FOR BURGLARY
RALEIGH, N, C, July 7, Tho first person to suffer the death penalty In this
State for burglary is Lawrence Swliison, a negro, who was put to death today In
the State prison. Six more electrocutions are to follow this month.
ONLY 50 REFUGEES IN VERA CRUZ; 146 ON WAY HOME
WASHINGTON, July 7. Consul Canada at Vera Cruz today reported to the
Btate Department that only 60 American refugees were now In that city. They all
came from Mexico City and are awaiting transportation to h& United States.
Canada reported that there were now en route to the United States besides the 6S5
refugees on the transport Sumner, Just arrived at Tampa, the following: number;
On a Ward liner, 67; on a Wolvln Line ship, 19, nnd on the transport Hancock, 60.
U, S. MARINES DUE TO ENTER SANTIAGO, SAN DOMINGO
WASHINGTON, July 7 lUnlteJ States marines expected to enter Santiago,
San Domingo, last night or this morning without opposition, a radio message to
the Navy Dopartment today from Adimral Caperton said. Dominicans were re
ported, quiet The Navy Department believes there will be no more fighting.
LARGE WESTERN TRACTS OPENED TO ENTRY
WASHINGTON, July 7. It la announced at the Interior Department that Presi
dent Wilson has restored to entry 1.892,463 acres of land In northern Montana,
formerly In withdrawn coal lands. Areas classified aa coal-bearing now may be
acquired under coal land laws. Moat ot the land Is in Sheridan, Valley, Hill arid
Slalne Counties. The President also has restored about 31.900-acres to entry from
is Teton National Forest In Lincoln County, Wyoming, beginning September 1.
NEWS
PRICE ONJDJ CENT
HAIG'S TROOPS
WIN GROUND IN
ANCRE SECTOR
Make Important Gain in At
tack East of La Boisselle,
on Wide Front
FORGE LINK WITH FRENCH
Fierce German Attack South
west of Thiepval Village
Beaten Back
British troops have renewed their
great offensive nftninst tho Germans
enriy this morning nnd during tho first
few hours of fighting succeeded in mak
ing important gains. They captured
1000 yards of trenches cast of La
Qoisscllc, which is cast of Albert, in ad
dition to n number of vital tactical
positions.
Tho fighting between the Ancro River
nnd Montauban, which is the npex of
a small salient and which lies duo cast
of Fricourt, is particularly severe.
Southwest of Thiepvnl a determined
German ottack was completely repulsed,
Sir Douglas Haig, British commander,
reported.
The British gain cast of La Boisselle
is of particular importance, because it
links up with the eastward advance of '
the French north of the Somme. The
Germans had massed large forces on
this sector and Counter-attacked des
perately in efforts to fling back the
British line.
While the British are pushing their
drive, the French arc resting north
and south of the Somme, apparently
waiting for the British to advnnco
sufficiently to permit them to continue
their advance toward Pcronne without
the danger of being flanked JTho French
arc consolidating thir gains, continuing
a heavy bombardmnt of German posi
tions.
A great cannonade is in progress on
the Verdun front, the Germans con
centrating their fire nt Thiaumount,
Floury and Chenois Woods.
A German attack in Lo Pctro Forest,
near Verdun, has been repulsed.
BRITISH RENEW BIG DRIVE;
TAKE VITAL POSITIONS SOUTH
OF ANCRE, HAIfl REPORTS
LONDON, July 7.
British troops resumed their great of
fensive against the Germans at dawn today
with simultaneous smaxhes against the Ger
man lines on n wide front.
An official statement from General Halg,
given out at 2:4B this afternoon, announced
a striking British success cast of La Dots
Belle, where 1000 yards of German trenches
were taken, and the capture of several im
portant tactical positions.
The text of the report follows:
The new positions of the British la
Iiernafay wood, at Montauban and at
La Boisselle were heavily bombarded
all night by Germans, who used "la
chrymatory" shells. Bast of La Bois
selle, after fighting In which the enemy
suffered heavy casualties, we captured
trenches over a front of 1000 yards
wide.
We have firmly organized the new
position.
Southwest of Thiepval the enemy
made a determined attack, but It was
completely crushed. The enemy's artil
lery Is very active In the region of Loos
and the Ilulluch salient. We have
shelled enemy trenches and troop bil
lets and successfully exploded two
mines at Auchy and Ilulluch.
During the morning In certain sectors
of the battlefield east of Albert we re
sumed a vigorous offensive, the attacks
beginning at dawn. At the same time
tho Germans delivered heavy attacks
In the region of Ancre. North of Fri
court fighting of the greatest violence Is
In progress, especially between &fin
tauban and .the Ancre, where attack suc
ceeds attack.
We have gained several Important
tactical successes In the vicinity of
Ovllleres, La Boisselle and Contaknsl
son. Northwest of Thiepval the enemy suc
ceeded temporarily In recapturing 300
yards of trenches.
LULL ON SOMME FRONT; '
GERMANS FAIL IN LE PETRE
WOOD ATTACK; GUNS BUSY
PARIS. July 7.
A lull has settled down upon the Infantry
fighting on the Somme River front
The French War Office In an official,
communique today states that only bom
bardments were In progress in that region
last night.
Durng the lull in the infantry fighting
north and south of the Somme the French
and British have taken advantage of the
occasion to organise their new positions.
In, the meantime, however, they were sub
jected to violent fire from German bat'
terles.
The night passed without infantry fighting
on the Verdun front also, though a violent
bombardment occurred on the east side of
the Mouse In the regions of Thiauracnt,
Fleury and Chenou wood.
In the Ls Pretre wood, southeast of
Verdun, the Germans made as unuccful
attack on French, trenches- Zrrttwh gren-
' '" -J!"1"1
fWmmrM a I'm- "Tim, Cll"i Tw
si
