v. l .
: YXSTtRDAY'S WEATO
IT. A" WRATH lift '.BCRKAtT
Jafy .i-4Rt twenty -foar
.houiV xsiafall, ,00. Tempera-tr,-
Min. M' Mm(B,i.
WntW, ptl Clear.- ,r
HONOLULO. HAWAII TERRITORY, VIDAY. JULY
jVTTWt - IS IS . . . ,. . f vS r nsJo,Am o.,
ij 1 ' 1 J '
rv AnniPAiitv I
U I I .U .JIIlf ILI I I
Story of Battle With German
High Sea Fleet In Skagerrak
Told Officially By Supreme
Admiral Sir John Jellicoe
ESTIMATES FOE'S LOSS
AT NINETEEN VESSELS
Says Teuton Enemy Suffered De
struction of Three Battleships,
One Battlecruiser, Five Light
cruisers and Nine Destroyers
(AmocUU. Tnm by Iritnl WlnUa.)
LONDON, July 7. Sir John Jelli
eoe, the supreme admiral of tho
British fleet, has Rent to the Bri
tish Admiralty hit official account of
the great sea fight off Jutland, en the
afternoon of May 81.
Ooing 'into details of the struggle,
he explains juiit what took place from
thn time Sir David Beatty, with bin
fleet of battle cruisers, light cruisers,
and their accompanying destroyers
sighted the Herman fighting croft, un
til the British mai nwi fleet arrived
nn the acene and the Germans turned
and went baek to the ahelter of the
gnn that guard Wilhelraahaven.
Estimates German Lom
He plainly state that be la unable
to give definite statement of the ex
act number of vessels the Oermam lout
during the battle, but be given what be
declarea ia a . "conservative esti
mate" of the toss.
'I have every reason to he confident
that on a conservative eatimate, the
number of German vesaela loat under
the fire of, Britiah guna tjuring the fight
and the rtftue o h'Tatoiiic et thiU
followed,' say the admiral, "amount
ed to three battleships, one battle eruis
er, five light cruisers, one submarine,
an destroyers annk and three no badly
damaged that they later sunk."
8UU Britiah Lou
Turning from tha Ions inflicted upon
the enemy Hir John Jellicoe make pub
lie the official 1) at of the Britiah loss.
"I regret to havn to report," be aaid,
"that the British battle emitter squad
ron suffered the losa of the following
ahips.
"The battle emitter, Queen Mary, the
battle cruiser Indefatigable, the battle
cruiser Invincible, the light emitters.
Defence, Black 1'rince, and Warrior,
and the destroyers, Tipperary, Ardent,
Fortune, Mluirk, Hparrowlawk, Nestor,
Nomad and Turbulent."
The buses of the British fleet as giv
en omciallv by Admiral Jellicoe are the
same as those mude public by the ad
miralty immediately after the first now
ot the buttle reached London.
Warsplt Not Destroyed
At that time there Was some doubt
regarding the safety of some of the
capital ships of the fleet. The (ierman
Admiralty claimed the sinking of the
British aupe rdrendnought Warspite.
The official statement of the British ad
iniral is taken here us putting at an end
nil doubts as to the fate of that ves
sel, for her name does not appear upon
the list of the Khglish ships sunk, given
by kiin.
Follow ing the fight the Admiralty re
port of the buttle said.
"The 1'ii'ihh louses hnve been fully
stated, and I here is nothing to subtract
from or Mild to the lutest account pub
lished bv the Admiralty."
'
FOR LIVES OF BABES
May Issue Bonds For Funds To
Combat Infantile Paralysis
(Associated Prsss by redtral WirtUss.)
Ni:V YOHK, July (t Twenty four
additional deaths from infantile paraly
sis iicctircd in Greater New York in the
last twentv four hours, keeping up the
previous day's record of a death un
hour.
Mayor Mltchcl this nfternoon In
structed the city comptroller to provide
0,00, to 1)0 raised through a bond 1h
sue, for the use of the health depart
ment in employing nurses and physi
eians in buttling witb the disease
MAY DISCHARGE SOLDIERS
WITH DEPENDENT RELATIVES
(Associst4 Prsss by redtral Wireless.)
WANHINOTON-, July . Depart
mental roinnirudera have been author
ize! by Seeretnrf of War Baker to
disi-harge enlisted men of the militia
who have been taken into the federal
service mid v ho have one or more
dependent relatives.
Austrians Before
GERMAN ARMY RETIRES
(Associated Press. By Federal Wireless)
L, ONDON, July 7. With nearly half a million Aimtrinns and Ufir
4 mans put out of commission since the hftriunintf of tli ;rent Kiict-
Ht'an drive, the Slavonic hordes are still pmwhiK forward on the line
from the Gulf of Riga, jn the North, to the Carpathians in the South,
and everywhere they are declared to have Wn victorious.
To the north of the 1'ripeJt marshes
patches from I'etrograd, eonaiats
hatdts of the (Jermana. Snnth of the Pi ipet river, however, I In- Rus
sian victory haa been of a poaitive character, They have smashed the
Austrian armies, and the breaking
compelled the retirement of General
AUSTRIANS FALL, BACK IN ROUT
Berlin admits this and Vienna, in an official, statement issued last
nitfht, admits the aame thing. The
a roitt until the (Ierman flank has
mnins for the Germans but a retreaU
While the Petroirrad despatches
Eastern theater of the great war.
the Russian war office, tell of a bit?
forces under the command of the
front.
Here the Russians have fallen
motm numler of Turkish infantry
nnmner or neavy puns ot German make.- In explaining the defeat the
Russians admit heavy losses but add that the pressure of the Turks is
hut one or many reasons why the retirement has taken place.
INTENSE HEAT IN LEAGUE WITH TURKS
"The intense heat of the Mesopotamian plains makes the campaign
ing exceedingly difficult for our troop,' says the despatch, " and it
was dewided to all baek to the oool f the mountains, and to await a
more salutory season for resuming tlw attack on the-Bagdad line."
:r TW roraf despatches of tho'-fipjitin'ia Galieia, however have
raised the hopes of the Allies that the final stage of the war is approach
ing. Last night's official accounts of the results gained by General
Brnsiloff since ,the beginning of his big drive are astounding., as they
fix the total of Germans and Austrians taken prisoners by the Russians
at 2:S.",(k')0 men and officers, most of them nnwonnded.
RESULTS ARE FROM BEST SOURCES
Cout inning the accounts declare that while the Russian authorities
have no definite official information of the killed and wounded of the
enemy, their own counts of the dead left on the battlefields, and Un
reports of prisoners, indicate that the Teutons in the Kiist cannot have
lost less than 200,000 and that the munlsT may run to 220,000 in killed
and wounded.
Nor are the human losses the only ones the Teutons have suffered.
The quantity of booty taken by the Russians has been enormous. Parks
of artillery, storehouses of shells, thousands of cavalry and artillery
horses, clothing, machine guns, rifles, food supplies, automobiles, ar
mored and unarmored; railroad rolling stock and hiifje quantities of
ammunition have fallen into the R iissinn itoNSC-ision. us one nfler un.
other of the Austrian strongholds
hy the Austrians and Germans.
VIENNA ADMITS HEAVY AUSTRIAN REVERSES
The Russians on the Dneister front apparently have routed the Aus
trian armies, and the Vienna despatches admit that the Austrians have
been driven back another five miles from the Debit n-Kolome mileo id
This movement, the military observers here point out. means that the
Austrian retreat has exposed the riht think of the German General
von Bothmer.
This is admittwl in an official account of the f i -1 1 1 i 1 1 r issued bv the
German war office last night. It is aunoui I thai owint? to the Rus
sian pressure, von Bothmer has I u forced to "fall back from the
Tarnopol sector to avert the danger of being flanked by the advancing
missians.
In this fighting, of which the Russian accounts arc substantiated bv
the admission from both Vienna
everywhere "the Russian armies
taken an additional ten thousand prisoners, half ot whom are Germans."
AUSTRIAN ARMV IN
Between Bliczaez and Stanislan
to Ih in a state of collapse, and to be
ent sectors.
The cutting of the Delatyu-Kolomea line places the armies of Brnsi
loff in a commanding position. In
parently is cleared of all serious Austrian resistance, and unless the
German forces under von Bothmer can retreat fast enough to avoid the
flanking stroke of the Slavs, they are in danger of being cut off and
crushed.
In the South Kolotnea also imnarentlv lies at the mercv of Brnsiloff
and his men, to take when they please. The Austrian resistance has
Iwen completely disorganized.
BIG MOVEMENTS BEGIN IN GALICIA
While the German war office last night admitted the withdrawal of
the forces of von Bothmer from the Tarnopol, for the first time, earlier
announcements of the fighting in the Kastcrn Galician sectors indicated
that big movements were under way there, and that the Teutons had
not had altogether the best of the lighting. It was stated that "after
the Russian attacks on the positions taken up by General von Bothmer
had been repulsed, the Teutonic armies were started to shifting in
order to reinforce the neigldairing sectors, where the Slavs are continu
ing the attempted offensive."
Lemberg Routed
-4)
thia victory, aceordini; to the des
in hurling lwck tlie tremendous ns-
up "of (iermany's southern nll.v has
von Bothiner in (Jalicia.
Atistrians have leen falli" buck in
been left exposed, and nut bin ir rp.
are tell ino- of tliese snccei. tbo
other despatches. hIho nfKeinl f.ion
defeat indicted bv the T urks nn (lie
Grand Duke Nicholas in the Malad
back" eiirhtv miles, before nn enor.
and cavalry, furnished with a lare
has been surrendered or abandoned
and Berlin. lVtrourad nsserlH tlmt
have been victorious, ami we have
STATE OF COLLAPSE
the entire Austrian armv is declared
in a panic-stricken rout in differ
the North, his way to Lemberg ap
i'S PLACE
IN BRITISH CABINET
Minister of Munitions Promoted
To Portfono of Secretary of
State For War
LORD DERBY BECOMES
HIS UNDER SECRETARY
Sir Edward Gray Created Earl
and Retains Office of Minister
of Foreign Affairs
.
(AeeocteUd fttM federal Wlreleie.)
U.NION,' Juty -luvi,l U.,yt
(Iporgp, milliliter rtf .munition, who hue
hn-n nn of the niont Jirnmlin nt figuren
in Rritinh imblif hta fW ton y"ir, linn
boon appointed minister of uttitn fur
wnr, in phi of. Eur 1 Kin-hf nor, who
-iih drownH n hil on hin why to Kuit
ftii on board the -BritUli rrmvi llunip
ihirr. The niuiounnement 'qf 1 .lovl (loorgoV
promotion to U villi- xn i eine In the
conduct of the Wf t:ik fnllowcil icn
medintply afterward by the Hpoint
ment of IirJ I.)irl.T, ntlior if the ho
ealcd Derby recruitMtf plan, by whirh
no nm if adidtkmal thntmaiiilx were add
ed to tho BriMxtr flgbtiac forcoii. to bo
under ecretsry ot utate fur wnr, uml
the rijrhr-rmrtd, mi of l.lovd (leorpp.
Mlnlnter Gray OrtaWd Earl
8ir Kdwnrd Oray, the Hriti.ih for
eign mlniMter, has been eontimied in
his portfolio, and created uu eurl. Thin
tidiea him' out .of the 'lioiw of c(i
mnns and into the hne of lonlsj
The appointniMnt of loyd-(!eorge lo
a cabinet ponkimi neeofcd only in the)w
timea o that -of'VreWftr;''R'' (mother
step In the elevntfnn of the little Welah
attorney who bffore the war wna one
of the moat popular of the enbinet
piiniMtera been one of hin micreimful re
forms in the taxation HVHteni of the
eoiintry. which added materially to the
tnxen prodae.ed and distributed the load
onto sooldern which np to that time
had been more or lexa auccenaful in
dodging.1
With the rmtbreuk of the wnr T.toyd
george, who Waa rhaneellur of the ex
he(ucr. came inntiintly to the fore
ground by the way in which he handled
the llnnnrial probleiiiM raised by the
oiitbri'nk Of hostilities. His work in
orgnniring and mobilizing Oreut Bri
tain's cash and credit resources, and
putting the country on a firm lliianciul
Iihms, won instant recognition.
Takes Charge of Munitions
When military defeats showed the
pressing neotl of a iiiidiiliation of the
industrial resources of the country and
the still more pressing need for de
velopment of the munition output a new
cabinet office was eivntcil and Lloyd
(leorge become minister of munitions.
He held that post ever since ond I. on
dun morning papers in commenting up
on his appointment to the post left vu
.'ant by the death of Kitchener, credit
iiiu with much of the success the Brit
ish leive had in withstanding the blows
of the Germans at the western frcnt
B
IG FRENCH LOAN
MADE IN AMERICA
A rrnngements hne been perfected
for the flotation in the I'nited States
of a French war loan of 100,000,000.
A new 10,000,(1(111 holding corpora
tion has been formed by .T. 1. Morgan
& Co., National City Hunk, Guaranty
Trust Company, l,ee, Higginson & Co.,
Kidder, Peabody & Co., and Brown
Brothers & Co.
This holding Company will take over
securities mobilized by the French gov
ernment, these securities serving as
collateral behind the loan. It will then
uffer its own debentures to investors
secured by the collateral in question.
The loan will run for three years.
It contains n stipulation that the en
tire sum is to be spent in the I'nited
States.
Announcement of the closing of the
books of the syndicate offering the
.triO.IHIO.OOO Russian Credit has been
made. The loan has been over sub
scribed. The interest to bo paid is six
ami one half per rent.
ARMY RESERVE WILL
BE CALLED TO DUTY
(Associated Press by Tederal Wireless
WASHINGTON, July 7. The war
department announced lust night that it
is proposed to call out the unity re
serve soon, in order to fill the ranks of
the additional regiments created by
the recent reorganization act. This
order will affect about W)00 men, as
only those discharged furlouged since
November, !15, ore to be called back
to the colors. In a statement issued by
the department, it was announced thnt
the purpose of tho. call is "to fill the
ranks of the new regiments and to fur
nish a working tent of tho army re
serve provision."
in Full
Franco-British Forces Sweep Front
GERMANS RESIST FIERCELY
(Associated Press By Federal Wireless)
PARIS, July 7. With the 1'rctich and British troops continuing
to make steady gains at the Somnie front gains which are ad
mitted by the official Berlin despatches the results of the confer
ence of the Knlente leaders last May are becoming mote and mre
a m a reut.
There is perfect coordination of all attacks in the minor sector
west of Peronne, and this is even more apparent in the bij; strategy
of the war. for the Allies in the West are hammering hard at the
entire (Ierman line in France and Flanders, while the Russians are
reported to he smashing right through the resistance oi the Teutons
in the Kast. and flic Italians are pounding with more or less success
against the Austrians at the Isonzo and Trentino front,
v. FRENCH FORCE GERMANY TO TRANSFER TROOPS
On the scene uf the last big allied drive in the West the fortune
of war so far has been with the French, o rapid has been their
advance that the (iermans have been compelled to shift their plan
of defense and to withdraw men from the forces opposing the Brit
ish north of the Somnie to the defense of Peronne, and the Pennine,
railroad.
When the offensive began last Saturday morning, the British
took the initiative and it was to the front at which they were light
ing that the (iermans rushed their reinforcements of men and heavy
guns. Then the French legan what appears to have been the real
attack in that sector. While the British wtre holding the (ier
mans in ever-increasing numbers, at their front, the French took
advantage of the opportunity thus created and launched one of
their own famous drives.
RAPID ADVANCE UPON PERONNE CHECKED
From F.strees, twelve kilometers south of the Somtne, to the town
of Curlu, at the northern end of the Somtne loop, they attacked and
drove the Germans out of their first-line trenches. One after an
other positions held for . month by the Teuton army yasseil into
the uoii.se.ssion of the Gallic troons. , v .
P&win&2ltit their -ottctiyi
netween ther trenches and the city, wrtioh is an important "Jttnet ton
point, from nine to less than three miles, in their attacks of Sunday.
Monday and Tuesday. Yesterday the reinforcements the Germans
had hurried to meet them caused the French offensive to slow up,
although they made big gains despite the Teutonic resistance, "which
is reported as having been desperate.
GALLICS TAKE TOWN IN HARD FIGHT
They assaulted and took the town of Hem. For the possession
of this place there was desperate fighting for two days, but the
positions captured by the French irior to their assault gave them
a commanding position from which to strike. Here there is a mill,
and around this the struggle was terrific The French had massed
men and guns upon the point, however, ;nd the Germans found
themselves unable to hold it.
Farther to the South the French arc widening the saVient they
are driving into the (ierman lines. Berlin officially admitted the
loss ,, Bflloy en Sauterre, due south oi Assevitlers, which was rap
tntcd by t lie French some days ago and sii farther straightens out
the French line.
GERMAN COUNTERS ARE OF NO AVAIL
The Germans have been attempting to launch counter attacks
against the advancing British and F'rencb, but everywhere, the offi
cial French and Fnglish accounts declare, without success. Near
I lent they did take back a piece of wood mil of which the French
had forced them earlier in the day, but this is tho single success
recorded by the communiques.
North of the Nomine the British ure linrlintr themselves forwnrd
with niter disregard of the tiemisn defense .m their efforts are win
niiiL' for them continued siiihII tfains, which are r.id nlly flattening
in the (ieniinn salient, mid Ktrengthenin. out their lines with the ad
vances mailt by the French in the South.
STRUGGLE FOR GROUND IS DESPERATE
On ti line from Hardicourt to Condies, the British advance, the strug
gle for gMuutul has lxen desperate durin the past twenty-four hours.
The bite auviees frojn the front indicated that the territorial and colo
nial tt H, which are making the attack, have been generally sueeess-
i'uU'altliouirh their gains have lieen comparatively small.
A range of small hills with steep side runs approximately north-east
and south-west, just east of Hardicourt, and the place is flanked hy an
elevation to the south of Gomhes. The (ierman positions here are ex
i ding strong, as they have fortified them well and have rushed rein
forcements to the aid of the regiments holding the ground.
BRITISH REACH GERMAN ADVANCE TRENCHES
At Theipval. where the attacks and counter-attacks have Ixwn follow
ing each other rapidly nil day, the British lrtsps are admitted hy Ber
lin to have made some gains, and further south the British have pene
trated to the (ierman advance trenches, where they are saitl to be hold
ing their ground in spite of the determined eoiinler-iuwaults of the
Teutonic force.
Indeed the last reports of the struggle in the Somnie sector indicate
that the Hermans have completely lost the initiative, and that the
Allies are assuming it more and more eli'cet ively.
The British and French are now consolidating the positions Ihe.v
have taken, and are sending reinforcements to lake the place of the
men who have been doing the fighting. Tiny are also moving forward
their mills and preparing for a repetition of the bombardment that
opened t his offensive.
At the Verdun front there has been little to report. Berlin announc
ed that a French attack against the positions near Thiaiiinont Fort had
proved unsuccessful, and the Paris official accounts say that the tier
man bombardment failed to produce an results, and that no infantry
attacks were made.
SwingWM GETS
.atttf .feVey rut 'tfowji "the "Uttiicc''
FAIR CHANCE
WHITE HOUSE
Note From Carranza Opens Way
For Diplomatic Conferences
Looking To Peaceful Adjust
ment of Differences Pending
ENTENTE ALLIES REPORTED
TO HAVE USED INFLUENCE
After De Facto Government Proves
Good Faith There Is Prospect
of America Advancing Money
To Help Rejuvenate Country
(AuocUtM i-TMt -7 rtdml WlraUM.)
WAHHINUTON, uy 7--Tr
in vry Hign that tli Mrxieaa
eriaiH linn ttin averted, tnd
that a ixnccfiil til,.n.i-t - v
poiatn in (Impute between the United
iStfcte anil the de fur to ownmn...!
' "
will be reachnj.
In nn oflitinl communication, to
Hennr Arretlondo, the Carranra rer
mntative here. the admini-tratl.,.
thrbugh the Mate department, yeirter-
'iy ""tilled the C'arranjta government
nHexi that the laat Carranin aoio
V.lperf-tly aatiifaetorv. txt tl.t
Hi T-'uited Htt had warmly we)0om
ed tha suggestion it containi that tb'
difference between Uit two , countries
be adjusted by4kK,AjUoti.---ferencea.
t"" '.'"!,.,
Another Hota M An&onct'
Nenor Arredondo wan alao notified
tlmt the United Hta tea la pfeparing
ni.t. dealing with the point raiaod in
C&rrnnzn'i communication, and that
tliiM note will he, forwarded as soon at
poHilile to the authorities in the Citr .
of Mexico.
Thin note will contain formal aecep
tiince of the Carranta proposals, and
will make suggestions regarding tha
mumicr in which the negotiations may
be -.ml noted so as to reach a Co.
I'Inxlun with, the leant tMiuilln
Necrctnry of (state lnaing, who baa
"en preparing tne not, expects to fin
ih lux work this morning, and will
leave for a months' vacation imme
dmtelv afterward. The Bote will b
submitted to Mr. Wilson for his eon
xiderntion, and hh soon a he ha ap-.ro.-d
it, Mill be ttent to the de facto
government.
Two Factors Bridge OrUli
Keports from Mexico indicate that
two fnctors played Important parts in
lirinfiinn n peaceful ending to the re
mit crisix. The chief of these, .it is
averted, wnM the Overwhelming
Ml relict li of the I7nite Mtat k
general knowledge among the intelll-
iii misses or .Mexieo or tne Impossi
bility of matching the strength of that
r tin ii try with thia.
It has been well known here for
some time thnt (leneral Carranta waa
fullv aware of the difference in the
strength of the two countries, and re
alized that war he twee ft 'fa.ln !
the I'nited Htntes would be the first
step in Ins own political overthrow,
as well as the humbling of the south
ern republic.
Entente Allies Interested
Hut buck of these considerations
veil, were others, iireaentod Tnv tha .
presentatives of European powers and
me i .in i ii American repUDJleS. It II
frankly admitted in soma quarter in
this city that the Entente Allies have
had thnir diplomats in Mexieo working
to avert the brttaji, Vct.w4e.Jt United
Mutes and Mexico. It is coin ted out
that niieh a break would liava resulted
in tlir instant ntniina0- n tfi
----- 1 r m e
ments of munitions to the Allies, and
would have meant the (losing down of
the MeKietlll oil tlhld- fnr anm 4tm
Just what the nature of the pressure
brought to bear upod the da fattO gov
ernment, whieh, while willing .enough
i or penee as rnr as. tne ncnas were eon-
eenied, whs confronted br the denser.
I internal strife at the first aiffft of a
ii lding I., the demands of the United
Mate, has not been mentioned in thn
lesl-ii te hes.
Financial Am-lstance, Too
It is reported here, however, that
A i icd lo has been informed that
there is a possibility that financial as
sistance tor the d facto government
ei, n be aim need km soon as evidence
'tveti of the seeuritv n th & marl.
enii and Kurooeun intereii4. in XUvmia
It is also hinted that this is the op-
loituuity wnu'b tne United Btstes has
been seeking to assist in restoring or
der in Mexico, and nfflel-t- AurYnTA
Inst night that there is great hope that
tins may prove to De eorrect.
:
