"Seen on the Side!"
A T.-D. Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
Hasfon's Letters
Always on The T.-D. Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
66th YEAR
VOL.UMB (tfl
MM n Kit IKS
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916.?FOURTEEN PAGES.
",:a -FAIR
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
?VIOLENT ATTACKS
l! BY GERMANS FAIL i
! TOGIVEANYGAINS
Entire Line of French Ad
vance Under Heavy
I Drive.
i
TEUTONS TRY TO GUARD
CHIEF STRATEGIC POINTS
Allies Preparing to Repeat Great
Bombardment Which Pre
ceded First Rush.
rO.MPAK.VriVK Ql'lET AT VKRDI'N
Austrian* Admit Defeat West of
Kolomea, Beinu Driven Hark
Neurly I'ivo Miles.
Violent counterattacks by the ficr
inans on almost the entire line of the
French advance in the Somme rei;lon
how a change in tho situation from
the earlier ilayn of the Anglo-Freneh
offensive. Ir. dm bcBinning, the Ger
mans concentrat<m1 their for'-"?' against
tho British. apparently considering th"
operations of tho French to the south
' as of small significance. Hut tho rapid
progress of the French troops has had
the effect of causing the German com
manders to stf?*nfjthen their defenses
and forces alone the line guarding
Peronne and other Important strategic
points.
Moth ends of .he French line have
been under heavy attacks, hut the
French .according to the official ac
counts, have been able to put them
down, without the Germans maklnir
any gains whatever. Meanwhile, both
French and British are c onsoiidating
their positions, and are undoubtedly
maklntr preparations (<t a r-;-iition
? f tho great bombardment which pre
ceded the first Imp" t no us rush
While the situation in the Verdun
region remains comparatively .juiet.
there are heavy bombardments on both
f'des of th<> Meuse. No advances are
recorded by either French or Germans.
M HIT I *11 STATF.Mi: NT
OIVKS FKH I) IOTA 11,S
The Hritieh official statement gives
' ?w details, mrr-'iv remarking that
a result of violent bomb fighting,
ve made further progress at certain
j oints in the main battle area."
The Immensity of the Rusrian drive
against tho Austrlans and Germans
during the last month is indicated by
unofficial reports from Petroerad.
which ??ay that the Austro-German
losses In an endeavor to stay tho ad
vance of General Hrussiloff, total
nearly 500,000 men. about half of whom
are prisoners. Not less than L'.'fi guns
of various sizes, and more than Tf'O
machine guns and an immense <|Uan>
tlty of other booty liavi- ln-cn taken.
The Austrlans admit a serious de
feat west of Kolomea. where they were
driven back nearly five miles.
The latest official statement from the
Russian War Office announces the cap
ture of approximately Ht.fif.n additional
prisci^. s. r.,000 of whom are said to
be G ar.s. taken in a recent battle
on the Dniester. About 5,000 other
prisoners were captured on other sec
tions of the Hussian front.
The (Jernians admit the withdrawal
of General llothmer's army in 1
Tarnopol sector before the powerful
attacks of th.- Uussiuns. Thc.v co?.
cede also an advance b\ tlie British
south of Thiepval. in the western zone.
M'iirr gk.viokai.i.y (ii.'ikt
in itivi-:n s(i\nn; sr:(Tio\
PARIS, July i*. ?Last nicht was gen-;
orally quiet north and south of the
River Somme, says to-day's official I
statement of the War Office.
There were a few local engagements
north of the .Somme during the night,
in which the Germans captured two ,
small woods a kilometer north of Hem. !
The French also raptured a wood.
South of the Somme the night passed
in quiet. A German counterattack on
Helloy was repulsed easily.
I ho I- rencii have captured seventy
six cannon and several hundred ma
chine guns.
There was no Infantry fighting on
tho Verdun front. The War ntli.-e yays
the Germans are attempting to bom
bard the cathedral at Verdun.
III! ITISIf JIAKK KI,|r;ilT
A 1>VA XCK XKAH THIKI'VAI,
LONDON, July C>.?"Near Thiepval!
(on the Somme front) we. made a fur-1
ther slight advance and captured a !
number of prisoners." the War Office i
Announced to-day.
South of Ha Rassee Canal, after !
the discharge of gas and smoke, wo!
made some successful raids Into tho
enemy s first line. In one ^>f these tho
Ttoyal Welsh Fusiliers especially dis
tinguished themselves, capturing forty
prisoners, a trench mortar and a ma
chine gun.
"In another raid the Highland Light
Infantry successfully entered the
enemy's trenches west of Hiilluch. A
machine gun emplacement was de
stroyed, many Getmans were killed and
some prisoners were taken.
"There was no change of Importance
( i the rest of our front."
F.N KM V COL' VTKH ATTACK S
repulsed nv htssians
P13TROGRAD, July 5 (via London,
July 6).?An oflicial 'communication
last night says:
"On the western front, in the region
of \ ulka Galouziskai, a massive enemy
formation delivered counterattacks, but
was repulsed.
"During a hostile counterattack
against the village of Kostiukkovka.
ono of our regiments having allowed
the enemy to approach within 100
yards, the advance guards wero anni
~~ (Continued on Third Page.)
Jellicoe Lauds Fleet
for Gallant Action in
North Sea on May 31
|Reports to Admiralty on
Battle Against Ger
mans Off Jut
land Banfe.
LONDON', July 7.?"Bn pleased to in
form the lords commissioners of the
| Admiralty thtil the German high sea
; tleet was brought to action on the 31st
] of May, 1910, to the westward of Jut
j land Bank, ofr'the coast of Denmark."
In those words Vice-Admiral Sir ]
John B. Jellluoe, commander-in-chief
of the home fleet, opens his report to
the Admiralty on the l.attle over which
there has" been so mu?"h discussion.
Continuing, Admiral Jcllicoe says:
"The .-hips of the grand Ileet, in
pursuance ??{ t))(. general policy of j
periodical sweeps through the North
Sea, had left its base on th?* previous
day, in accordance with instructions
issued by me In the. early afternoon
of Wednesday, :'.lst ?.f May. the first
and second battle cruiser squadrons
and destroyers from the first,' ninth,
tenth and thirteenth flotillas, su p
j ported hy the tifth battle squadron.
! were, in accordance with my directions,
j scouting to the southward of the
battle tleet, which was accompanied by
the third battle cruiser squadron, the
| first and second cruiser squadrons, the
1 fourth light criiiser squadron and the
fourth, eleventh and twelfth flotillas.
"The Junction of the battle fleet with
j the scouting force after the enemy
i had been sighted was delayed, owing
t" the southerly course steered by our
i advanced for< e during the iirst hour
ifter commencing th?*lr action with"
i the enemy battle cruisers. This, or
I course, was unavoidable, as had our
1 battle cruisers not followed the enemy
to the southward. the main fleets
would never have been in contact.
IN KKIOl'I.M; with iif.st
Tlt A DITIO VS OF JS|-:aVH K
"The battle cruiser fleet, gallantly
I i?-d by Vice-Admiral Beatty, and ad
j mirably supported by th?- ships of the
i fifth battle squadron, under Hear
j Admiral Evans-Thomas, fought the ac
| tion under, at times, disadvantageous
I conditions, especially in regard to the
light. in a manner that was in keeping
i with the best traditions of the service."
Admiral Jellicoe estimates the Ger
man losses at two battleships of the
Dreadnought type, one of the Deutch
? land type, which was seen to sink;
i the battle cruiser Lutzow, admitted by
the Germans; one battle cruiser of the
Dreadnought type, one battle cruiser,
seen to be so severely damaged that
its return was extremely doubtful; five
light cruisers seen to sink, one of them
possibly a battleship: six destroyers,
seen to sink; three destroyers so darn
aged that it was doubtful if they would
bo able to reach port, and a subma
rine sunk. In concluding. Admiral Jel
licoe says the conditions of low visi
bility under which the day action took
place, and the approach of darkness,
enhanced the ditliculty of giving an ac
curate report of the damage inflicted.
But he adds that the list shown gives
the minimum numbers, though it Is
possible it is not accurate as regards
the particular class of vessel, especially
those which were sunk during the
night attack.
"1 deeply regret." says the report,
"to report the loss of His .Majesty's
ships Queen Mary, Indefatigable, In
vincible, Defense, IJlack Prince, War
rior, Tipperary. Ardent. Fortune, Shark.
Sparrow Hawk. Nestor. Nomad and
| Turbulent. Still more do I regret the
[ resultant heavy loss of life. The death
| of such gallant and distinguished offi
cers as Arbuthnot. Hood, Captain
Sowerby, Captain Browse, Captain Cay,
Captain Bonhatn, Captain Charles J. j
Wintour and Captain Stanley B. Ellis
and those who perished with thern is a
serious loss to the navy and to the
country. They led officers and men
who were equally gallant, and whoso
death is mourned by their comrades in
the grand fleet. They fell doing their
duty nobly?h death which they would j
have been first to desire.
COM) ITT OF KXEMV
I'll AI.SIOU I?V A DM I It A1/
"The enemy fought with the gallan
try that was expected of him. Wo par
ticularly admired the conduct of those
on hoard a disabled German light
cruiser which passed down the British j
line shortly after deployment under a
heavy tire, which was returned by the ;
only gun left in action. The conduct ?
of the officers and men was entirely !
beyond praise."
Especial mention is made of the cool- !
ness of the engine-room crews who j
performed their duty without the in- I
eentive that spurred the men on deck.
The work of the fleet's medical officers
is nlfto commended.
The hardest fighting fell to the bat
tle cruiser fleet, says Admiral Jellicoe,
the units of which were less heavily
armored than their opponents, and he
expresses high appreciation of the
handling of all the vessels, and com
mends Admirals Burney. .Terrain, Stur- j
dee, Evans-Thomas, Duff and Lcvison,
and continues:
"Vice-Admiral Sir David Beatty, once
again showed his fine qualities of gal
lant leadership, firm determination and
correct strategic fighting. He appre
ciated situationr at once on sighting
the first enemy's lighter forces, then
his battle cruisers, finally his battle
ships. I can fully sympathize with
his feelings when the evening mist
and fading light robbed the fleet of
that complete victory for which he had
maneuvered, fir which the voslels In
company with him had striven so
hard."
Vice-Admiral Beatty's report to Ad
(Cont inu~efi ~oi~Fifth PagoT)
1IOTKI, lUTKGKIt HOOK TO-NIGHT.
Dinner-supper, music, dancing, 6:30 to 12.
Reserves to Fill Up
New Army of Regulars
WASHINGTON. .Inly ij The War
Oepnrtincnt niin11iinre<1 to-night that
It noun vwiulit ??nil nut the r?*nnlnr
itrmy ri'Hwvc In III I up the ruultM of
tlie nctv or^niil/ii Uoiim of regular*
provided fur hi the nriny rcorgnni
r.ntlon net. Tlie rt'd^rvo eoimlntfi
prlrii'lpnII>? nf in?-1? ivho have lircn
honorably illschnrKfi] frnm aervlee.
Tin- call ii ill mrrct between 4,(100
rind S.tMMI men, hcltiK nppllcnhle
only to thu*e dlsehurKcil frnm the
service on furlnuuh Mtnce Novfmlirr
J, lOlfi. It Is iimlerNtooil the pur
pone In nut imly tn provide nciT
rcirlmeiifn xit nnee. hut to furnlnli n
working tr*t ?if tlie reserve prn
vlnlun of tlie Inn.
EAIfLE SHIS M'CflRTHY
MISUSES HIS POSITION
Member of Administrative Board
Charged With Closing Street
Near His Utilise.
McCarthy makks flat denial
Cites Former Court Decision to j
Show Glutei- Park Thoroughfare
Has Not Ilfii Dedicated as Pub
lic Street?Mandamus Is Asked.
.1 udge Beverly T Crump, of the Law
and Kquity Court. h-<s fixed July 15 as
a date for hearinir argument on a peti
tion filed hy John II. Oaylo for a '
mandamus to compel the city of Rich
mond to remove an obstruction he- j
I tween Noble Avenue and North Avenue
and Hawthorn Avenue and North Av- '
enue. Ginter Park. The obstruction
' complained of consists of a hedge and
j barbed wire. Last year Mr. Gayle !n
! stituted a similar proceeding in the
: Law and Equity Court, and on Sep- i
j tember 18, 1915, a mandamus was re
I fused by Judge crump.
The petition now before the court is 1
against the city of Richmond, the Ad- !
j minlstrative Board and Captain Carl- '
ton McCarthy. The petition charges'
! Captain McCarthy with "uslnp tho j
power of the Administrative Board, he 1
being the dominant member, and his t
own power as an officer to further his ;
j private and selfish aims." The in- |
tegrlty ?.f the board is also attacked !
in failing to cause the removal of the!
i obstruction complained of.
Captain McCarthy said that sutlicient i
j reply to the allegations of Mr. Gayle !
J was contained in the court's order re- j
fusing the tirst mandamus applied for. j
.MeC'AllTHV CITKS OPIMOX
OF .IIUGK CIlU.Mpi
The court's opinion in this matter j
was as follows:
"Upon careful consideration of all |
the facts submitted to the court in
support of the application for a man- .
dainus in this proceeding, and after
careful examination of the authorities
bearing upon tlie questions at issue, I
am of the opinion as follows:
"First. Inasmuch as tlie obstruction
in the street sought to be removed by
this proceeding existed at tho time the
entire property in question was taken
within the limits of the city of Rich
mond, and since I he said obstruction
was placed in the street by the cor
poration originally platting and laying
it out, there has been no complete
i dedication of the said street for pub
lic use. Tn order for a complete dedi
cation to exist, there must be an ex
press acceptance by the public au
thorities or such user by the public |
as to evidence an acceptance. Under i
the circumstances of this case, it is <
clear that the city of Richmond never j
acquired the right to compel the
parties placing the said obstruction in
the said street to remove the same.
Not having said authority, certainly j
no public duty existed upon it to have :
the ohstnu tion removed, which could ?
be enforced at the instance of a j
citizen.
"Second. By the platting and re-'
cording of the plan showing the. streets, i
and the sale of hits in the plan, the !
purchasers of the lots unquestionably'
acquired rights in connection with the!
streets against tlie owner of the orig- I
inal tract as vendor of the lots, and i
also the purchasers acquired rights in j
the streets among themselves. These
rights are private and individual, and
tho streets do not become public high
ways until the incorporated town or
city has acquired a right to compel
them to he. opened and kept open.
Such a right can exist only after the
authorities of tho town or city have
accepted the streets, according to the
conditions in which they existed at
the time the streets were accepted."
SAYS JlrCAItTIIY OBJKCTS
TO TllAVKIi 11V jus HOUM12
In tho petition just filed, Mr. Gayle
says, among other things: "Charlton
McCarthy lives at SlG Hawthorn Av
enue. just south of Myrtle Street, and
said McCarthy objects to Hawthorn
Avenue being opened to North Street,
as it would occasion a little more pub
lic traveling in front of his house, and
ho generally being of the opinion that
the public generally have but few
rights other than to pay taxes."
Though Ginter Park was annexed
to Richmond in November, 1914, Cap
tain McCarthy said, the thoroughfares
in question are private property, and,
under tho opinion handed down by
Judge Crump, tho city has no right to
placo or Remove any obstruction on
any of them.
Captain McCarthy says that ho was
singled out for an attack inerely
(Continued on Second PagoT)
WAGE HOT FIGHT
AGAINSTEASLEY
Examiner of Records of Sixth
Circuit Charged W^ith Neg
lect of Duty.
TAX BOARD MAY ACT TO-DAY
Monster Petition, Signed by
2,000, Urges Appointment of
Tucker C. Watkins, Jr.
1 barges of negligence ami inctli
ciency In office were laid against Ex
aminer of RciioriN James S. Easley, of
the Sixth Judicial Circuit, yesterday
by Attorney Benjamin Watkins Leigh,
of Houston, at an executive hearing
held hy tho State Tax Hoard in Gov- !
ernor Stuart's office. Mr. Easlcy. who
was present in person, entered a vig
orous denial.
The charges marked tho culmina
tion of a sharp contest that has been
waged for months against .Mr. Easley's
t "appointment as examiner of records.
He i.-s being opposed for the otlice l?y
Tucker c. Watkins, Jr.. of South Bos
ton, whose candidacy dates from the j
passage |,y ,|in laM legislature of a
bill designed to bring m an end the
terms of all present examiners of ,
records, and to make these officers sub
ject to appointment and removal l?y the]
State Tax Hoard, instead of by the j
circuit courts.
While there are at least three other'
circuits In which the examiners have
opposition, the contest In the Sixth has 1
overshadowed all others. Friends of!
-Ir. AN at kins have secured to a giant '
petition indorsing him for the ex-I
amlnershlp the signatures of 2,000 !
prominent business men, manufactur- j
ers and farmers of the Sixth Circuit. !
and enormous pressure has been '
brought to bear on the Tax Board to
secure his appointment in the place of
the incumbent.
CHAIIfiK IXATTEXTIOX TO
AM) MClilJXT OF DUTY
Papers, charging Examiner Easley 1
with inattention to duty, and negli
gence have been on file with the Tax 1
Board for some time, but all informa
tion concerning the charges had been
sedulously withheld. The hoard met
last Saturday to take the matter!
" passing on the examinershlp an- :
pointments. but adjourned to hold an
other meeting yesterday, it will meet
um'w at k, f,'clock th,s morning, and i
ill probably announce Its decision as
to tills and other appointments.
Mr. Easley came before the board
with no counterbalancing petltlor, but
ffered instead numerous letters of in- :
d orsemeni from prominent citizens in
his circuit. He bused his claim to re
appointment. he said, on the record he
has made as an efficient public ofllccr
since his appointment In laos
This record was challenged' by At
torney Leigh, who told the board that
large amounts of taxable monevs In
the hands of special commissioners in
CaU8?*" '? fh? County,
of Halifax, had not been listed bv Mr. '
-asley for taxation, and hence" had
not been taxed because of the "negli-1
gencc and inefficiency of the examiner." !
den if" :Mr. Kaslfev entered a vigorous
enul of this charge. Mr. Leigh pro
duced copies of original court records'
of Halifax County tending to show
'm fifty-six such suits, the money.,?
n the hands of special commissioners!
had not been listed for taxation bv 1
-Mr. Easley. and so. he claimed, had ''
escaped taxation for years.
The total amount of the moneys ac
quitted of taxation in this manner. Mr.
^eigli estimated, was considerably more
than Slflu.000. A more exhaustive ex
am nation than he had been able to
make, he thought, would in Halifax
alone show equally as large an amount
of other funds not listed bv the ex
aminer for taxation.
EASLEY DECLINES TO
MAI\E AXY STATEMENT
Mr. Easley declined last night to,
make any public answer to these!
charges. His case, he said, was before;
the Tax Board, and he did not feel
that it was incumbent upon him to
defend himself at this time, except be
fore that body.
Although the hearing consumed sev
eral hours, it was stated on behalf of
the board, after the meeting, that no
decision had been reached. Kxecutivo
Assistant Christopher B. Garnett de
clined to make any comment whatever
on the proceedings of the meeting, and.
State Auditor Moore, secretary of the!
board, said that there was no statement
to make at this timo. With Mr. Moore
were present tho other two members1
of the board?Governor Stuart and 1
Judge l'rentis. of the State Corporation
Commission.
The Sixth Judicial Circuit, the ex-1
amlnershlp of which is being sharply
contested, is composed of the Counties!
of Halifax, Mecklenburg, Lunenburg
and Campbell, and the citv of Lvncli-'
burg. Moth Mr. Easley and Mr. Wat
kins are from Halifax Countv, and liavo
prominent, family and business ,-on
nectlons in the circuit.
MOXSTEIt I'ETITIOX
FILED ItV WATKIXS
On behalf of Mr. Watkins there has
been filed with the Tax Board a mon
ster petition signed by more than L',000
citizens. The signers include Stato
Senators Walter E. Addison, of Lvnch
burg; George E. Allen, of Lunenburg;
William II. Jeffreys, Jr.. of Mecklen
burg, and James T. Lacy, of Halifax .
the entire senatorial representation of
the Sixth Judicial Circuit; and the fol
lowing Sixth Circuit members of the
House of Delegates: S. T. A. Kent, of
?Halifax; W. 10. Hudglns, of Mecklen
berg; S. H. Love, of Lunenburg, and
It. A. Uussel), of Campbell.
Tho ?"ly other members of the Houso
(Continued on socond puge.)
KXOl'KHIO^' TO TlfK MOUNTAINS,
VI* Norfolk and Western Hallway,
Tuesday, July IS: J.'.OO, I.ynchl>iirK: j.i.00.
itoanoke. l'hono Miullxon ?7 for full nar
llculaib'. ?Ad vortlscment.
First and Second Virginia Now
on Their Way to Texas
Border.
FEW TO WITNESS DEPARTURE
Official Denial That Fourth
Regiment Has Been Ordered
to Mobilize.
Within tho passing of a few hours
two regiments of Virginia troops were
entrained yesterday and font forward
to the Mexican border. Rugles blasted
reveille at 3 o'clock. Tho First Regi
ment answered the call and struck
camp. In four hours the Second Cat- \
falion, under command of Major Pey
ton. of Charlottesville, was upon its
way. Followed the Richmond Grays,
of tlir- First, in command rf Major ,1.
Fulmer Mright. The Grays carried 'J!>1
men and fourteen officers. The third
>?? ? tion, in charge of Colonel William
Perry. carried the Third Rattalion,
Major Stanley W. Martin, of I.vnch- ?
burg, commumliiiR.
Movement of tlic Second Regiment,
Colonel U. F. I.eedy comma tiding, was
begun in the afternoon at I o'clock.
The troops were on time ami were po
sitioned before the trains. Delay oc
curred. however, and it was not until
nlnht^ that entralnment began.
Camp Henry C. Stuart is occupied
now only by the Field Artillery, the
Field Hospital Corps, the Signal Corps,
the First Squadron of the First Vir
ginia Cavalry and a company of engi
neers. The vast field encircled by the
rare track was divested of tent equln
aee and deserted. nut the grounds
had been so thoroughly policed before j
the movement that a sparrow could I
not find a straw for her nest nor a
crumb for her brood. Camp tires
burned over refuge and garbage. De
tails on fatigue duty remained for the
final cleaning. When the last battalion
of the Second Regiment moved front
its quarters, silence settled upon the
camp. Cows returned to their pasture,
and field larks whistled mournfully in
.their flight.
FIOW PIC OP 1.1*. CAME Oi l' TO
Iim soi.niEits (ioon-nv
There were few' to bid the soldiers
good-by. There was no sound of mar
tial music, but the men themselves
sang '"Tlpperary" as they hiked to tho
trains. Richmond slept while her sons
were being sent forward. Traditional
hospitality was forgotten. While other
cities In which State troops have been
mustered into service have sped their
men to the front, Richmond has been
inhospitably idle. Roys from the
beaches of the Eastern Shore and from
the lowgrounds of the Northern Neck
and from the blue mountains of the
Southwest have hungered for a cheer
ing word and a smile. Rut the Rich
mond people, so the soldiers themselves
lament, have been hostile rather than
hospitable. So the men were glad to !
move. More than 2.000 men. in tiic
two regiments, were entrained. They
carried with them rations for ten days: :
but there were few Individual sand-'
wiehes packed for them. The people
of the city forgot the youngsters who I
were carrying arms for the first time |
and were answering the President's'
call.
?Vo OitDKH FOH PrttTIIP.lt
MOIIII.17.ATIOX OP TltOOPS
Adjutant-General W. w. Sale last
night definitely denied reports pub
lished In the afternoon to the effect
that the War Department had au
thorized tlie mobilization of the Fourth
Virginia Regiment, Colonel K. R. Oood
wyn. Ever since the first call for
troops, the Virginia officials have been
anxious to have the Fourth Regiment!
included, not only for its own sake,
but that Virginia might furnish a com
plete brigade. In tho event of its call.
It was pointed out. the brigade head
quarters, under Rrigadler-Gencr.il Ce
cil C. Vaughan. Jr.. would also be
called into service.
General Sale said last night that the
report of orders for the mobilization
of the Fourth Regiment had probably
been due to the fact that the regiment
will shortly go into its summer camp.
In fact, it had been expected before
the call for militia for Mexican ser
vice that the entire Virginia Rrigado
would go into camp this summer. Au
gust 5 having boon set as a tentative
date. With two of the fhree regiments
already on the way to Mexico. General
Sale has suggested to the War Depart
ment that tho Fourth Regimont be
brought Into summer camp in Rich- i
mond for two weeks or more, in which
case it would be immediately In posi
tion to move, forward should tho ex
pected orders come for Its being mus
tered Into the Federal service.
I nder the circumstances. It was
stated, no other location than Rich
mond will be considered for encamp
inent purposes this summer, as tho
mustering officers are here, the artil
lery and cavalry are here, and for some
time to come the Fair Grounds en
campment will be a recruiting and
drill grounds for Virginia militia.
mtiGAnp hi-: anrir.Aiitkhs
MAY III-: OHI>Plt|-n> OUT
If tho Third Regiment bo mustered
info service it Is likely that Rrigadior
G on era I Cecil V. Vaughan, Jr., will bo
mustered In and be made a brigade
commander. It is said that a West
Virginia Regiment, which was to have
been thrown with the Virginia con
tingent, has failed to come up to re
quirements. which will mean that' a
brigade will bo made of tho Virginia
Volunteers. If General Vaughan Is
mustered In he will be accompanied by
his adjutant. Major O. I,. Wright; Ma
jor Junius F, Lynch, surgeon-general;
Major Allon Potts, camp quartermas
ter, and his detail, and others attached
to brigade headquarters. It Is confl
dently expected that a Virginia brl
(Continued on Second Page.) ~~
Successor to Kitchener
oavii) i.i.iivd ckoikjk.
LONDON. .1 >i 1 > it.? Dnvld I>lo jd
.rorge I""" been appointed Secretory
for AN nr. Sir Kdward Die Secre
tary for Korelun \IYalr*. linn bad ?n
earldom conferrrd upon him. The
Knrl of Derby, illroetor of recruiting.
Iiiin been appointed I n|l,T Secretary
for Wiir.
fBfirsTirrats
TOLL OF SEVENTEEN LIS
Property Damage Amounts to Many
Hundreds of Thousands
of Dollars.
ALL VICTIMS, SO 1AR, XKGROES
Business Section of Mobile Flooded
and Many Buildings Demolished.
Only Meager Reports From Pen
sacola?Wires Still Prostrated.
The loss of at least seventeen lives.
antl property damage amounting to
many hundreds of thousands of dollars
resulted from the tropical storm which
swept the east Gulf coast dn Wednes
day and turned Inland on Thursday,
according to reports from practicall>
every town in ? > devastated district. ^
All the deaths thus far reported oc
curred near Uelolt, Ala., on Ihursdaj.
All were negroes. Hesorts along the
coast in the vicinity of Mobile havo
not been heard from, and It is feared
there may he some loss of life at those
places. There was no loss of life in
Mobile or Ponsacola. the largest cities
In the storm's path, according to mes
sengers from those places.
Propertv damage in Mobile- was re
ported to*be heavy. The business sec
tion of the city was Hooded, and ninny
buildings were demolished or unroofed.
Damage in Pensacola was said to
have been eonllnod largely to the
water front and shipping. ???ly the
most meager reports were obtainable
from that place. The maximum wind
velocity was reported at 104 miles an
hour Wednesday afternoon.
I.OSS or 5-0(1,0(M) is
HKI'OltTKD AT I.A I'HI'Jl/
Laurel. Miss., reported that the prop
erty loss there will aggregate Jiinn.OOO.
Jackson and Meridian reported con
siderable damage to crops and farm
buildings.
Gulfport. Blloxl. Pass Christian and
Ray St. Louis. Miss., dispatches lsald
little damage was done at those places.
Buildings and crops in and around Be
lolt were damaged, and crops suffered
tltrotighout the storm area.
One Louisville and ? Nashville pas
senger train was reported marooned
between Now Orleans and Mobile.
The wire prostration extends through
put Southwest Alabama and Missis- ,
slppl. as well as part of Florida.
Mobile, Pensacola and other joints j
still were cut off, and so complete is :
the prostration that accurate estimates
of the damage probably will not be
possible for a day or two.
XO I.I VICS MIST AT MOIIU.Us
tiltKAT l'KOI'UHTY DtltMilv
MONTOOMKHV. ALA.. July 0.?After
having been shut off from all comniuni
cation for nearly thirty-six hours by;
the hurricane that swept tli? eastern
Gulf coast early yesterday, worfl from
Mobile. Ala., cam? lo-nlghi that no lives
had been lost there, though the prop
erty loss was heavy. A railroad tele
graph operator wln? walked into tho i
isolated city ami bac.t to a small sta
tion brought the. Ilrst report from the
storm center.
The operator, whose lame is Krrvrn.
walked from Magazine Point to Mobile,
a distance of four miles:, and thru six
teen miles to llurrlcf.ne, Ala., vhero
the wires wore Intact. His message
follows:
"Water went to Conception Street in
Mobile. Top of Louisville and Nash
ville Depot blown olT. and s'rueture
badly damaged. Many houses near the
water front and as far woat iis i.on
coptlon Street badly damaged. No
lives lost. The otlice at M iga7.hu- was
blown off the sills and turned over.
Driftwood piled high over the tracks
along Chickasaw Bayou. Two m'les
north of Magazine tho tracks are cov
ered with heavy timbers six feet high.
There arc two large barges ast'Mde the
track at tho same place. Western Union
wires aretloxvn from Magazine ~r> 1 Jay on
Sara bridge, but are all right from there
to Hurricane."
WAsmsoxl AMI KKTITHN. *3.00
from HlelnnoiM&^sireeond KduiHttonnt Kx
eursioii. Tick# I h ?&>d only i.n *pc-elal train
)<?avlni: Shafer ami Hroa?i htreots n.30 A.
M. Saturday. July ti. and returning. leave
Washington 8 1'. il. waine date. Auv.
DIRECT DEALINGS
FAVORED BETWEEN
I TWO GOVERNMENTS
Arredondo Informed That
Carranza's Proposal Is
Acceptable to U. S.
j LANSING IN CONFERENCE
WITH PRESIDENT WILSON
Virtually Completes Draft of
Formal Note Which Is to Be
Sent to Mexico.
WILL UK READ TO CABINET
Means of Giving De Fncto Heiul
Material Aid in Restoring Or
der May Ho Found.
'TUlV 6?Tho <10
t" co\ eminent of Mexico was ln
.'Tn?" to-,iRht through
? ? Anedondo, ambassador-desiir
ill 1L1 ar7nns!il'H proposal to adjust
P nding differences between tlie two
tiationnmen,'S U>' <Mrn,;t diplomatlc hcbo.
Mr. Arredondo was Informed of tho
American government's attitude |? a
conversation to-day with SecretarJ
La ns Ins:, after the latter had eon^
ferrr-d with President Wilson. Later
a formal note will be sent. Mr. Lans!
if^the Y ha<1 comP'eted a draft
Of tho communication to-night but it
may be r<!11(! c?hl?ct to! ??row
before It is delivered. W
Immedlatcli- after the Cabinet meet
' * * * .LH,,Sine ???ns to leave
fnib in vacation. Counselor
Mr rr .,lct,,n hlH and meet
' 1,1 ,hft l?fo'-nial dis
vA ? 3 aVvhMl solution of tho
Mexican problems will be brought
It was evident at the State Depart
to-d">- that officials believe a
means of s,vi?B thc lIa fa g^rn.
ment materia, aid in restoring orSer
hrou^,lol|l ,,osii.(( may bc fou^d ^^er
It is known that thc pacific nature of
be latest Mexican note is construed
rinzi i l,1B that General Car
rf nza. besides being Impressed by
American military preparations, ha,
been deeply Influenced by the pressure
and argument brought to bear on hiiu
by friends in the United States, by
"Ufopean diplomats in Mexico ritiT
and particularly by representatives of
many of the Latin-American power,
disclssioxs may takk
.... , ?* WIDER SCOPE
nil le the immediate purpose of tho
negotiations In which Secretary Lan
shigs note Is to be the first step wH,
e\olution of some plan for
tranquil!zing the border regions, the
discussions may take on a wider scope'
Ihere Is little doubt that Mr. Arre
dondo received the Impression from
secretary Lansing to-day that if adi"
quate guarantees as to the security of
American an,! other foreign Interests
Mtxico could be secured, the Wash
u?M, K nVCrn,r.nt ,,eUevcd Possible
bv th ,:,'U U U,(1 Kre:ltl>' needed
L de Iacto authorities could be
round r>e?,?a bo ?.or
I bj protracted discussion
Some time ago. it is' understood, a
auttestlon that the Washington kov
ernment would encourage American
banker, to go to the rescue ot th^ de
fat o government was made through
Ind rect channels. At that time Gen
oral Urranza. who had not felt the
P nch of poverty which now threatens
the icsrwilh co,,npsie
15vents clearly have proved thc fall
lire of the first chiers hopes to ro
establish orderly government unaided
officials here believe, and he is thought
kw jSi "r, i-?.s
ho will make proper ,n
jrder to secure American capitaL
Counselor I'olk tic;.
'ate to-day with Henry
designated to be ambassador to Me\
h-o am. Pllul M. Warburff of the^
ciill Reserve Hoard.
<iH EAT Sir; \ | IHA\CE
ATTACHED TO CO.VKEHK.VCR
The object of the meeting was not
< sclosed. but great significance was
H'? " " indicating that tho
Mate Department had found it con
venient just at this time to inquire as
to the probable attitude of American
fhe S "'!tJ::'-s Co th" disposition of
ward l'^'ii Iteserve Board itself to
ard lending such aid as might be in
its power, to the Mexican government.
?No statement could be obtained us to
miv"b I" ?r t'1" flnBnc,a? reject that
ma> be in contemplation.
Secretary Lansing would not discuss
o,h?T ? 'h0 "0t0 1,0 w,? forward
to the de facto government approving
ILZir f?r <llreot diplomatic
ii<n 'S to "nd a solution of tho
?IllUmi Ilea in w?,,h ^
have become involved. Jt is believed
however, that it will lay great stress
upon the friendly purposes of the *
nlted States, and intimate that any
Plan of action that may be suggested
which will Insure the security of tho
American border, will find ready ac
ceptance in Washington.
wh!i? .Arren1don(,? 9Uld to-night that
while ho had general instructions from
his government to discuss with tho
State Department the points on which
there is disagreement, he would await
new orders from Mexico City before
Undertaking the proposed negotiations.
He added that he did not expect to
t.ike up the question of arranging
credit for his government, but would
oavo that to Dr. Alfredo Caturegll.
General Carranza's financial agent, sta
?JOiu?il at N'ew York.
It is believed here that the question
of constructive measures to stabilize
the Mexican government will come up
before the conversations have pro
gressed very far. The Washington ad
ministration Is understood to be as
firmly convinced as over that a cure
for tho lawless conditions In the bordor
