THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGnZl JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, AEIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, JULY 7, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 50
ZALEMS IL-SL IS VDJJNG TO 1GOT11
Germans Begin To Realize The
VIOLENT COUNTERATTACKS ON
FRENCH LINE SHOW CHANGE IN
SmiATIDN FHDM EARUEH DAYS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Violent counter attacks by the Germans on almost the entire line of
French advance in the Somme region show a change -in the situation from
the earlier days of the Anglo-French offensive. In the beginning the
Germans concentrated their forces against the British, apparently consid
ering the operations of the French to the south as of small significance.
But the rapid movement of French troops, together with the importance
' of the objective for which they are aiming, has had the effect of changing
the German view and causing the German commanders to strengthen their
defenses and forces along the line guarding Peronne, and other important
strategic points.
Both ends of the French line have
Germans, according to official accounts,
down without the Germans making any
French and British are concentrating
making preparations for a repetition of
ceded the first impetuous rush.
While the situation in the Verdun
there are heavy bombardments on both
are recorded by either French or Germans.
The immensity of 'the Russian drive
during the last month is indicated by
which say that the Austro-German losses in the endeavor to stay the ad
vance of General Brussiloffs armies, total nearly a half million men, about
half of whom are prisoners. Not less than 250 guns of various sizes and
more than 700 machine guns and an immense quantity of other booty have
been taken.
The Austrians admit a serious defeat west of Kolomea, where they
were driven back nearly five miles.
The latest official statement from
capture of approximately 10,000 additional prisoners, 5,000 of whom are
said to be Germans, taken in the recent battle on the Dniester. About
5,000 other prisoners were captured on
The bermans admit the withdrawal of General Von Bothmers army
in the Tarnopol sector before the attacks of the Russians.
Staff Confabs
Are Forerunners
of Big Offensive
f Republican A. P. Leaked Wirej
LONDON, July 6. The results of
the staff conference!! of the entente
ullies in London in May and June,
lire becoming ctmtinually more ap
parent in the co-ordination of the
allied attacks on the Teutonic forces
and increasing evidence of the initia
tive passing from the Teutonit to the
allien at almost all points.
As the French and British armies
iiow are engaged in reorganizing and
preparing for the second phase of
the battle of the Somme, there is a
comparattve lull on the western ,
front, and Russia, again takes the
center of the stage. Today's news i
from Fetrosrad is highjy important
in the Might of the future develop
ment of the Somme battle. The news
that the Russians have captured f000
prisoners on the Dniester front ap
pears to leave litle doubt of the col
lapse of the Austrian forces between
liuczacz and Stanislau, which will
greatly affect the army of Genei'.l
von Bothmer, compelling him to re
tire northward while the advance on
Delatyn and the seizure of the rail
way cut off von Bothmer from his
chief base of supplies.
The prospect of Field Marshal von
Hlndenburg being able to make an
effective diversion is believed here to
he dwindling while the Germans are
desperately engaged in trying to
meet the Russian offensive at Baran
ovichi, the Russian General Kaledi
nes is developing a strong attack on
both sides of the Kiev-Kovel railway.
The question arises among military
meir here as to how Germany can
(Continued on Page Five)
STRATEGIC
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, July 6. The French of
fensive along the Somme has made
steady progress so that the left
of the advance now rests on Harde
court and the right- on Estreer,
while the entire intervening front
has been transformed within the
last four days, from one of irregu
lar lines that exposed some posi
tions to a flanking fire into A
homogeneous line without fissures
or dangerous wedges.
The solidity of this front is in
marked contrast with the fronts in
the battles of the Champagne and
the Artois, the irregularity of which
permitted of a heavy crossfire be
ing brought to bear upon the more
advanced points. That part of the
present front facing Peronne has
the classific form of two echelons
on two sides of Peronne, which is
said to be the only one of the well
known dispositions laid down in
ancient tactics that has survived
the revolutionary developments of
the present war.
1
been under heavy attacks by the
and have been able to put them
gains whatever. Meanwhile both
their positions and are undoubtedly
the great bombardment which pre
region remains comparatively quiet
sides of the Mouse. No advances
against the Austrians and Germans
unofficial reports from Petrograd
the Russian war office .announces the
other sections of the Russian front
Half Million
Austrians' Out
of Commission
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FETROGRAD (Via London! July 6
Nearly a half million Austrians and
Germans have been put out of com
mission since General Hrussiloff be
gan his great advance, a month ago
today. The grand total of prisoners
to date is, in round numbers 235,000
of which 4,500 are officers.
Without the actual figures regard
lng the dead and wounded, careful
estimates by military experts, based
on the best infoi matiori, places the
latter at 200,000 to 220,0"0.. The Aus-
trians predominate overwhelmingly
among the prisoners but among the
t;ca,i anr1 wounded it is said that a
fairly large percentage are Germans.
The German losses in stopping the
Russian advance on Kovel and in
counter attacks made in solid ranks
were enormous. The booty captured
leaches incalculable figures. It is
figured that 250 guns of various sizes
rnii upward of 709 machine guns is
conservative estimate. In addition,
vast quantities of munitions, supplies
and transports have fallen into the
hands of the Russians.
The success of General Letchitzky's
advance west of Kolomea, where he
has cut the railroad, into Hungary
it Mikuliczyn is emphasized a new
body blow to the Austrian defense
of east Galieia. XorthwAt of Kolo
mea his troops are within If nriles
of Nadworna, well to the rear of the
Austrian right flank facing Tarnopol,
between the Stripa and Zlota Lipa
rivers.
On the extreme right flank of
Brussiloffs front the Russians are
(Continued on Page Two)
FEAT AT SHE
The right of this formation is
protected by a defensive curve that
unites the new front with the old
line. Tacticians declare the maneu
vers that accomplished this forma
tion constituted one of the most
notable strategic phases of the war.
0
APPLICATION FOR
RED CROSS MEMBERSHIP-
Phoenix Chapter, American National
Care Harry Welch, Chamber
Phoenix, Ariz.
Herewith, I make application to membership in the Phoenix Chapter,
American National Red Cross. I enclose One Dollar ($1.00) as payment of
the first year's enrollment fee. - ,
(Signed)
July.
1916.
(Address)
DRY AMENDMENT IS
COMMENDED BY THE
STATE REPUBLICANS
CD-
RED CROSS OUT
WITH AN APPEAL
WASH1NTON, July 6. Miss
Mabel T. Boardman,- of the execu-
tive committee of the American
Red Cross, issued an appeal to
day to children of the country to
contribute to a fund for buying
postcards and writing material for
American soldiers on the Mexican
border. The fund will be called the
Children's Red Cross hospital fund.
JELUCOE TELLS
FIGHT WITH
FLEET
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, July 7. "Be pleased to
inform the lords commissioners of the
adminlfy that the German high sea
fleet was brought to action on the
21st of May, I'.M'i, to the westward of
Jutland bunk, off the coast of Den
mark." In these words, Vice-Admiral Sir
John B. Jcllijoe, commander in chief
of the home fleets, opens his report
to the admiralty cn the battle over
which there has been so much dis
cussion. Continuing, Admiral Jel
licoe sai. in part:
'In the eariv afternoon of Wednes
day, STst of May, the first and sec
ond battle cruiser squadron and de
stroyers fro'.n the first, ninth, tenth
mid thirteenth flotillas, supported by
the fifth battle squadron, were scout
ing to the southward of the battle
fleet, which was accompanied by the
third battle cruiser squadron the first
and second cruiser squadrons, the
fourth light cruiscr( squadrons ur.ii
the fourth, eleventh and twelfth flo
tillas. "The junction of the battle fleet
with the scouting force, after the er.
emy h?.d beep sigbtel, was delayed
owing t the southerly course steered
by our 'advanced force during the
first hour after commencing their ac
tion with the enemy battle cruisers.-i
This of course, was unavoidable, as had
our battle cruisers not followed the
enemy to the southward the main
fleets would never have been in con
tact. The battle cruiser fleet, gallantly
led by Vice Admiral Beatty and ad
mirably supported by the ships of the
fifth battle squadron under Rear Ad
miral Evan -Thomas fought the action
under, at times, disadvantageous con
ditions especially in regard to light."
Without map's and charts, many of
the details of the report cannot be
made clear. It states that "the list of
ships and commanding officers which
took part in the action has been with
held from publication foTr the present
in accord with the usual practice,
which also detracts from the interest
of the document
Admiral Jellicoe estimates the Cer
man losses at two battleships of the
dreadnaught type, one of the Deutsc
land type, which was seen to sink, the
battle cruiser Lutzow, admitted by
the Germans, one battle cruiser of the
dreadnaught type, one battle cruiser,
seen to be so severely damaged, that
its return was extremely doubtful,
five light cruisers seen to sink one
of them possibly a battleship six de
stroyers, seen to Sink, three destroy
era so damaged that it was doubtful if
they would be able to reach port, and
a submarine sunk.
In concluding Admiral Jellicoe says:
"I deeply regret to report the loss of
iis majesty's ships Queen Mary, In
defatigahle, tnvincib-e Defence. F.lack
'Prince,- Warrior, Tipperary, Ardent,
Fortune, Shark, Sparrow Hawk; Nes
tor, Nomad and Turhulqnt. Still more
do I regret the resultant heavy loss of
life. The death of such gallant and
(Continued on Jrage Two)
Bed Cross,
of Commerce.
GERMAN
Importance
By LYLE ABBOTT
(Special to The Republican)
PKESCOTT, July 6 The Republi
can party will make a strong bid for
the dry support this year. This sup
port has been pledged to the ticket and
in further advocacy of the dry amend
ment the convention passed the follow
ing: "We take pleasure in recognizing
beneficial effects of the prohibition
amendment to the constitution of Ari
zona and commend it and all officers
of the law who have aided and are
still aiding in its strict enforcement."
Fair Field No Favor
Republican candidates will go into
the primaries this fall to pursue their j
fortunes, and there will be a fair field I
and no favor shown by the organiza-
tion which was perfected at the first 1
anfl only session of the Prescott repub- i
lican convention today. The advisability
of endorsing a ticket was considered
very seriously, but in the end, the only j
argument remaining umhattered was I
that by pruning, the oi-ganization might j
get the benefit of otherwise unavail-
able publicity for candidates receivin
the favor of the convention.
A decision not to endorse was reached !
in caucus and presented to the conven- !
tion in the form of a resolution, whiclj j
reau : v nerfas, ine nuininauon uy ine
Chicago convention of Hnghes and
Fairbanks has been received with such
unbounded enthusiasm by the people
of the nation and state and has im
bued theeople with unbounded con
fidence in their election in November,
and has particularly inspired the re
publicans of this state with the belief
that their state ticket will also tri
umph and has aroused an admirable
spirit of emulation in the nomination
of candidates for congressional and
state offices, in consequence of which
this convention is relieved of any nec
essity for proposal or recommendas
tion, therefore, be it resolved: That it
is the sense of this convention that
specific recommendations other than
for presidential electors should not be
made and further that this convention
heartily pledges its support to any can
didate who may be chosen by the re
publican party at the ensuing pri
maries." . "Billy" Cook Is Chosen
"Billy" Cook, of Maricopa, was se
lected in Maricopa caucus as that coun
ty's representative among presidential
electors. It had already been agreed to
place the names of Captain Jack Green-
way and Don J. Lorenzo Hubbell on
that list. It was learned during the con-
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Reserves To Be
-Called Out To
Fill The Ranks
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. July 6. The war de
partment announced tonight that it
soon would call out the regular army
reserve to fill up the ranks of the new
organizations of regulars provided for
by the army reorganization act.- The
reserve consists principally of men who
have been honorably discharged from
service.
The call will effect between 4,000 and
6,000 men, being applicable only to those
discharged from the service on fur
lough since November 1, 1915. 'It is
undesstood the purpose is not only to
provide new regiments at once, but to
furnish a working test of the reserve
provision of the law.
About 20,000 men are needed for the
additional units authorized for this
vear by the reorganization act. The
war department is determined to de
velop these without breaking up the
existing units any more than neces
sary, and it Is understood the decis
ion to issue a call to the colors grew
LKut of this desire rather than from
any further need of troops in the
Mexican emeigency.
"The w-ar department is going to
call out the regular army reserve.
The new national defense act passed
on J.ine 3 provides for certain addi
tional regulars for the army. The
men of the reserve are to be used
to fill up the ranks of these new .-organisations."
This will he the first time tha re
serve h&s been called out since it was
created by the act of November 1,
3912, and a national reserva force
his been available only since last
November, when the minimum three
year period of active service ended.
The army act of 1912 provides an
enlistment term of seven years, four
of which are in active, service anc!
three in reserve. It is provided, how
ever, that men may be furloughed
into the reserve on their request after
three voars of active service.
: The new units to be organized this
year arc: Seven regiments of infan
try, two regiments of cavalry, three
regiments- of field artillery, snd two
regiments vt engineers, in addition to
a number of special troops.
Of French
COWBOY
11
III SUSPECTED
LHepublican A. P. Leased Wire
DEMING, N. M., July 6. An American cowboy posse which crossed the
Mexican frontier about a, week ago in pursuit of the persons who murdered
William Parker artd his wife, Alice, on their ranch southwest of Hachita,
N. M., captured a Mexican woman at the San Pedro ranch, about sixty
miles south of vthe border and are bringing her to Silver City by motor.
. This report was brought here tonight by O. R. Parker, a brother of the
slain man, and a number of the posse. '
The Mexican woman, the wife of a ranch hand, said to have been
formerly employed on the Parker ranch, told varying stories when ques
tioned, according to Parker. Parker asserted that the woman's husband,
also suspected in connection with the killings, escaped.
COFFINS OF
THE
L
Republican A. P Leased Wire
j EL PASO, July 6. El Paso today
j paid a solemn, t ilent trioutc to nine
flag-covered coffins containing the
bodies of nine American --o!dicrs who
gavp their lives for thyir C1.untr at
(Vrrizal.
Exhumed fiom a single grave in
an irrigation ditch on the ImttlefieliV
into which they had been thrown,
stripped of their clothing, the bodies
were brought to the border by j
party of American undertakers.
Only a small crowd was at the
American station to meet the train,
it hr.vivg brought the bodies back
nomi-' earlier than had bn expected.
fTcim the ;,me th? death train
nosed its way across the Rio Grande,
the si irit of mourning seemed to per
vade the air. Flags on most of the
public huildirgfi flut:ered at half
mast. Motorists muffled their en
gines, as if to respect the dead. F.ven
the Mexican hawkers seemed to catch
the air of quiet respect and were less
raucuous than usual as they n.ade
their way through the crowds selling
a black draped national shield to be
worn in the lapel.
When the nine caskits were taken
from th car and placed in waitir
ambulances, every sightseer bared h..s
head and stood with his hat in hand
until they had been covered with
flags and a military band had sound
ed the j;,st note of "Nearer My God
to Thee."
Headed by the Eighth cavalry
band, playing the Chopin "Funeral
March," and an escort of a squadron
of cavalry, the cortege moved slowly
cityward. Beside each ambulance
marched six pallbearers and behind
each was led a riderless horse, the
stirrups and aims reversed. Genera)
Bell, his staff, the twenty-three sur
vivors ,.f Carrizal, recently releasee!
at Chihuahua City, and the two other
squadrons of the Eighth cavalry
mad.' up the remainder of the pro
cession. As the cortege made its way into
the citv. the crowd whii h had gath
ered to do honor to the memory of
the two offices and the seven trooj
ers was steadily augmented. Voices
were lowered as the ambulant
passed, and not until the brie funeral
service hai been read at the chapel
of the undertaking rooms by Chanlain
V. . Pramli r r.f the Eiehth cavalry.
At Least Seventeen Are Dead
In Gulf Coast Tropical Storm
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW ORLEANS, July 6. Loss of
ut least seventeen lives and property
damage which may total several
millions of dollars, resulted from the
tropical storm Which swept the east
gulf coast Wednesday and turned
inland today.
All the deaths reported up to late
tonight occurred near Beloit, Ala.j
where seventeen negroes lost their
lives. Several resorts along the coast
in the vicinity of Mobile had not
been heard from.
There was no loss of life in either
Mobile or Pensacola, the largest
cities in the storm's path, according
to messengers from those places
which still were cut off from direct
wire communication.
Larly reports tonight from Mobile
placed the property damage there at
a million dollars but a courier ar
riving later at Meridian said it Was
not nearly so great, though parts ef
the wholesale district were flooded
and some buildings unroofed. Dam
Rgtf in) Pensacola was said to have
been eWfined largely to the -water
front ;and shipping in the harbor.
only tne most meagre reports were
obtainable from that place. The
maximum wind velocity was reported
Offensive
OF
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
"OOi'GLAS, Ariz., July 6. Approx
imately 7000 United States soldiers,
half of them militiamen, were en
camped tonight around Douglas. Na
tional guardsmen expected to arrive
tonight and tomorrow will bring the
ni;mler on guard here to between
SOuO and 10,000 troops. In addition,
a regiment of regulars is stationed
temporarily r.t Bisbee. twenty-five
miles northwest of here.
IKire than 1600 militiamen were
added during the day to the New
Jersey troops already at Camp Fred
erick Funston, northwest of Douglas.
They consisted of he Fifth infantry.
New Jersey National Guard, and the
They consisted of the Fifth infantry',
of Montana. The latter reached here
late today.
The Fourtli" infantry of New Jer
sev, accompanied by Brigadier Gen
eral Edward W. Mine and his staff
and the remainder of the Second
Montana infantry were expected to
be in camp here within tbe. nex:
twenty-tour hours
The battalion of infantry from Mon
tana was under command of Major
John J. Maginnis. Lieutenant Col
onel Arthur M. Ferguson, formerly a
captain of the Fourteenth iCnited
States infantry, is in charge of the
Second regiment from Montana. ,
Many of the militiamen reaching
here today were relieved from work
as the tvphcid serum injected into
their arms while in state concentra
tion camps was beginning to take
effect.
That the guardsmen were . being
prepared for an indefinite period of
border patrol duty was1 indicated to
day when carpenters began the erec
tion of frame buildings at the new
camp for use as bath rooms and
store houses..
Huge quantities of provisions are
being g-athered here, and it was stated
today that a large store house, re
cently leased by the army, already
was proving to be too small.
did B:i Paso resume its normal rack
ety ispeet.
General Bell announced tonight that
efforts to identify any of the bodies,
other than those of Captain Charles
T. Boyd, Lieutenant Henry Adair and
Private De Witt Rucker. had been
in vain. He said, however, that he
(Continued on Page Two)
at lot miles .an hour.
Laurel, Miss., reported that the
rrope.rty loss there would aggregate
$200,000. There was no loss of life.
Jackson and Meridian reported con
siderable damage to crop and farm
buildings. Reports from Gulfport, Bi
loxi, Pass Christian and Bay St.
If Married To
KILL
GUARDSMEN AT
DOUGLAS GROW
IS TO HERS
Mexican Womeh May Leave
Republican A. P. Leased Wire , to make itself felt in Sonora, accord
DOUGLAS, Ariz., July . General '; ing to Mexicans arriving here today
P. Elias Calles, military commander j from Nacozap. The stores at that
of Sonora. tonight issued a general place are limiting the amount of food
order permitting all Mexican women
married to Americans to. leave So
nora. This was done at the request
of Frederick Simpich, American con
sul at Nogales.
A number of native wives of Amer
icans were understood to have been
detained by Mexican soldiers until
their status as nationals had been de
termined. These will now be allowed
to enme to the United Spates.
A serious food shortage has begun
vmm)
SENT DE FACTO
MEXICAN CHIEF,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 6 The do
facto government of Mexico was in
formally notified tonight through Zlis
eo Arredondo, ambassador-designate,
that the United States welcomed
General Carranza's proposal to adjust
all pending differences between the
two governments by direct diplomatic
negotiation.
Mr. Arredondo was informed of the
American government's attitude in a
conversation today with Secretary
Lansing, after the latter had com
f erred with President Wilson. Later
a formal note will confirm the am
bassador'j report. v Mr. Lansing virtu
ally had completed a draft of the
communication tonight but it may be
read to the cabinet tomorrow before it
is delivered. v
Immediately after the cabinet meet
ing, Secretary Lansing plans to leave
for a month's vacation. Counsellor
Polk will administer the affairs of the,
state department in his absence, and
meet Mr. Arredondo in the formal dis
cussions at svhich a solution of the
Mexican problems will be sought.
It was evident at the state depart
ment today that officials believe an
opportunity has now been presented
which may bring a means of giving
the de facto government material aid
in restoring order through Mexico. It
is known that the pacific nature of
the Mexican note which brought the
crisis between the governments to an
end, is construed here as indicating
that General Carranza, besides being
impressed by American military prep
arations has been deeply influenced by
the pressure and argument brought to
bear on him by friends in the United
States by European departments in
Mexico City and by representatives of
many of the Latin American powers,
the latter have exerted themselves to
the utmost to avert war and to foster
in General Carranza's mind the idea of
Pan-American unity.
While the immediate purpose of the
negotiations in which Secretary Lans
ing's note is to be the first step, will
be the evolution of some plan for
tranquilizing the border regions, the
discussions may take on a wirier
scope. There is little doubt that Mr.
Arredondo received ' the impression
from Secretary Lansing today that if
adequate guarantees as to the security
of American and other foreign inter
ests in Mexico could be secured the
Washington government believes it
possible that the financial aid so
greatly needed by the de facto gov
ernment could be found. Details of
the form and extent of the guarantees
required and of the amount and nature
of the financial aid that American
bankers might be willing to furnish
can only be worked out by protracted
discussion.
Some time ago, it is understood, a
suggestion that the Washington gov
ernment would encourage American
bankers to go to the rescue of the de
facto government was made through
indirect channels. At that time Gen
eral Carranza had not felt the pinch
of poverty which now threatens his
government with collapse. He rejected
the suggestions, as :he believed he
could restore financial stability with
out foreign aid. He is known to hold,
radical views on the question of for
eign concessions and is understood to
have been actuated by a desire . to
leave himself free of any obligations
in this regard.
Events clearly have proved the fail
ure of the first chief's hopes to re-
(Continued on Page Three)
Louis,' Miss., told of little damage
there with no loss of .life.
Buildings and crops in and around
Beloit and Tallahassee in Alabama
were damaged and crops suffered
throughout the storm area. Traffic
between New Orleans and Mobile anl
(Continued on Page Five)
Americans
sold individuals and families to a
small weekly ration.
Rural districts south of Nacozari
have plenty of cattle and wheat for
the present, but on account of the
drouth many cattle are dying, it is
reported. , No crops have been
planted in many secions of Sonora,
while in others the departure of the
men to join the army has resulted
in neglect of farms, with disastrous
results, arrivals said.
