I Iron County Record. I
WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." jfl
K - ' 4 -v . IB
H , , ' H
H VOLUME XXIII $1,50 PER YEAR GEDAR CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 30. . , - I flH
m . , , , l , , , : , iw. .. ;M
I FOURTH OF JULY
I NJNURNI
S Celebration Went Off Nicely and
H Proved Quite Satisfying to
H Those Participating.
B GOOD SPEAKING, MUSIC
B AND BASE BALL GAMES
B Weather in Forenoon Was Ideal, But
H Rather Warm in Afternoon Guests
H Were Hospitably Entertained.
Hf As forensted in last week's Record,
H u goodly number of the people of Ce
H , dar City went to Parowan to spend
H Independence Day with our county
H seat friends. Wo presume there was
H no count made of tho visitors from
H this place, but after the meeting, the
H Cednr City automobiles, which all
H bore suitable inscriptions, lined up
H and held a parade about the principal
H streets, mid presented quite an im-
H posing appearance. There were prob-
B ably -ISO or 200 people in all there
H from this place.
H The telephone poles along Main
H street, the park whore the morning ex-
H crciscs were held and othor public
H places were tastily decorated with
H flags and bunting, giving tho town u
H holiday uppearance.
H There was a parade at 9:30, which
H was said to bo one of the pleasing
H features of the. day, there being some
H very elaborate floats, principally con-
H structed on automobiles. A prize of
H $5.00 was given for the best decorated
H car, and was won by Walter C. Mitch-
Hf ell's car, tho decorations being the
H2 . "wylc i.Mr. Mitchell's wife and, his
K1-"- daughterA'-This car joined the Cedac
IH' autos in their parade after the mcet-
H. ing and was certainly very beautiful.
H, The meeting at the city park was
H in no sense tiresome. The speeches
H were relatively short and to the point,
H able talks being given by Hon. Wjl-
H ford Day and Rev. C. S. Rico on the
H issues of the day. The Parowan band,
lft under the direction of Mr. Eckles was
M in attendance and did much to en-
H liven tho occasion. The speeches by
H' Miss Ora Orton, Goddess of Liberty,
H Miss Beatrice Dalton, representing
H Utah, and Scott Matheson as Uncle
H Sam, were all well delivered nnd gave
H evidence of careful preparation.
H A live committee was on the lookout
H for the visitors from other towns and
H directed them to the homes of Paro-
H wan people whero they found a royal
H welcome and plenty to satisfy the in-
H' ner mdn.
H" At 1:30 the crowd repaired to the
H Fair grounds, where a triangular base
H ball contest was waged between the
H Cedar City, Parowan and Lund teams.
H Cedar and Parowan was the first to
H lock horns, and the victory for the
Cedar boys was an easy one. There
H was not a time during the entire game
B when tho result was at all in doubt.
H The score at tho end of a game of
H six innings was 1G to 1 in our favor.
H This put it up to the Cedar boys to
H play Lund for the final, and it came
H very nearly being a victory f for the
H boys from the dry farms. During the
H first two innings they managed to
H run up a score of eight to Cedar's
H four, and it stood practically here un-
IH till the last pair of innings. During
IH the first half the Lund team, who wns
IH first to bat, added one more tally, and
!! Cedar had in the mean time added one.
il Cedar came up for their last turn with
m the swat on a scoro of 5 to Lund's
IH nine, but with the grim determination
IK to overcome tho odd's before the side
IH went down. When they had added
IH the five tally's necessary for a decis-
IB ion there were only two men down,
IH but the gamo ended abruptly, tho score
IH reading 10 to 9 in our favor.
IH Two or three of the Cedar players
M uppearcd to be having off days. Thom
IB us and Leigh wore especially poor,
IB neither, apparently, being able to
m hold the ball. Another excuse the lo-
M cat players give is that they had such
IH vty Wn easy game with tho Parowan nine
m X, that they nearly lost tho game with
IB Lund before they realized that they
IH had to ginger up and play ball.
IB There was a saddle horse race or
IH two ufter tho ball ga&ies, but nothing
M of a very exciting chlnracter,
IH Tho day finished witlfyhe usual ball
IH in tho evening, for which a great
IH many of the visitors remained.
MRS. 1IYRUM REESE
DIES AT MT. CARMEL.
A telephone communication was re
ceived hero Inst Wednesday morning
by Mrs. Thomas S. Bladen advising
her of the death of her sister, Mrs.
Hyrum Reese, at her homo in Mfr.
Carmel, Kane county, Utah, and Mr.
and Mrs. Bladen at onco made ar
rangements to go there by automobile
to attend the funeral. Ravid C. Bul
loch took them over in his car. There
arc a nuiriber of other relatives re
siding here, but so far as learned no
others wore able to attend tho funernl.
It has been known here for some time
that Mrs. Reese was in poor health,
and that a few days previous, sho was'
in quite a critical condition, but the
last reports before .the ono announc
ing her death were of an encouraging
nature, so that the announcement of
her death came as a severe shock.
Mrs. Reese lived the greater part
of her Hfo in Cedar City and is wHl
known here. With husband and fam
ily they moved to Mt. Carmel a few
years since, but have mado occasional
visits back here. She is a sister,.also, I
to John H. Adams, a former residehr, j
who now lives in Canada. She also'
haB a daughter, Mrs, J. W. Walker,
residing in this plnce, but who was
called to Mt. Carmel before the death
of her mother.
Deceased was universally respected
in this community and has a wide cir
cle of friends hero.
David Hatght Benefitted by Operation
Mr Ravid Hnight, one of our stal
wart and respected citizens, returned
from Salt Lako a few days since after
having undcrgpne another critical op
eration ut tho L. D. S. Hospital for
the correction of an organic stomach
trouble of long standing. A year or
two ago Mr. Haight was operated on
here for this complaint, but at that
time the symptoms and appearances
pointed to cancer. 'But his health im
proved greatly and he incrccased in
weight, showing that t tho diagnos'm
was ,in error. Last "December, how
ever, he was taken worse, and wng
nearly prostrated by a severe hemor
rhage, since which time he has been
growing steadily worse, until for sev
eral days before his operation he wus
unable to retain nourishment of any
kind. He is now ubout the streets,
and says that he is feeling well, except
that he is weak. The recent operation
consisted in providing a new outlet
for his stomach, which was found to
have become practically closed up. It
is hoped that Mr. Haight will now
soon regain his wonted health uvd
strength. Dr. Middleton performed
the operation. ,
Say They Were Held Up.
Some people who went to Parowan
to spend tho Fourth on the assurance
of the general committee that they
would bo provided with transporta
tion at $1.00 for the round trip are
asserting that they were charged $1.60
and rode a large freight truck, stand
ing up at that. And further that it
was a member of the gendral commit
tee that collected this excessive fare
from them. Surely there must be
some mistake. Such a thing would bo
too prepostrous for belief. We should
like to learn the facts, and will be
pleased to publish the statement of
the committeeman in question, so that
he may have a chance of setting him
self right in the eyes of the public.
We made tho announcement last issue
at the request of the general commit
tee that the $1.00 fare would be
charged by the owners of cars, and
we nre certain that tho greater part
of them' adhered to this price. We
cannot think that a member of the
general committee would bo the first
to violate this contract with tho pub
lic. What are tho facts?
Local Autoists Hustle Numbers.
For some time past a considerable
portion of the automobiles owned and
used in this locality have been without
numbers. The oflkerB have spoken to
owners a number of times, but without
results. At length they gave final
warning that any machines found un
licensed on July 1 would bo taken
over and held until numbers wero ob
tained. Accordingly on July 1, the
ofllcors got busy nnd commenced mak
ing demand upon owners for their
cars, with the result that there hus
been a wild scramble for licenses, and
the state department will doubtless
be surprised ut tho number of applica
tions pouring in all at once from this
community, Hereafter tho law will be
moro rigidly enforced, and persons not
haying tho prescribed license and num
bers will not bo permitted to drive cars
upon tho streets and highways of this
county..
.
f M - " ' ' '
. Celebrate the Twenty
Fourth With Us.
A cordial invitation is hereby extended by the people of
Cedar City to the other residents of Iron County to come
and celebrate Pioneer Day with us. The committee having
the celebration in charge arc-doing all they can to make the
day a success, and feel safe in assuring everyone participat
ing a good time. A detailed program will appear in these
columns later.
The people of Cedar City Will provide free entertain
ment foi all visitors. Come and enjoy the anniversary of
t;he settlement of our fair state with us.
By order of the GENERAL COMMITTEE.
WILL TRY TO
IKE WATER
City Council to Look for Additi
onal Supply for the City
Water System.
FATHERS HELD BUSY
SESSION LAST NIGHT
Pass Ordinance Creating Paving and
Guttering Districts, and Consider
Paving Pnrt of Main Street.
The City Council met in regular
session in the library auditorium last
evening, tho roll call showing a quor
um to be present. The following bus
iness was transacted:
"Tho. sale of 'ascertain parcel of land
to Thomas Lawrence" near "his"h6mc
for a consideration of $100 was rati
fied or approved.
On motion of Councilor Higbee the
committee appointed to prepare a cel
ebration for the Fourth was held for
tho Twenty-fourth.
Tho repair of the works at the
White Rocks spring wns referred to
the wutermastcr for attention.
It was decided that the mayor and
council should pny a visit to the head
of the water system next Sunday for
tho purpose of deciding upon certain
repairs and to sec ubout getting an
additional supply of water for the city
system, if such a thing is found to be
practical.
An ordinance creating paving dis
tricts within Cedar City was duly
passed and ordered published in The
Iron County Record. It will be found
in another part of this issue, and
should bo carefully read by every tax
payer. It was moved and carried that no
tice of intention to tdx for curb and
gutter improvements on that part of
district number one lying between 1st
North and Center streets, on both
sides of tho street, including a descrip
tion of the nature of tho proposed im
provements nnd an estimate of cost
of samo be given by publication in
tho Iron County Record.
A resolution relating to the use of
water for spraying purposes from tho
city system wns passed and ordered
published. It will be found in another
part of this issue. By tho terms of
this resolution tho use of water for
tho spraying of lawns and gardens Is
limited to two hours each evening, be
tween 0 and 8 o'clock p. m. It is
found that tho supply of city water
is getting scarce on account of tho
hot, dry weather and as n result peo
ple in tho eastern part of town are
without culinary water a considerable
portion of tho time. Citizens aro re
quested to respect this order, without
the application of moro drastic meas-'
ures.
The usual budget of claims was
read and allowed.
Tho reports of tho watermnster,
poundkeepor and and marshal ycru
read and approved. "
On motion of Mr. Thorley Councilor
Dalley was instructed to investigate
tho matter of a volunteer firo depart
ment for Cedar City, and report his
findings and recommendations to the
council.
Adjourned. .
Mrs. Jane Yardley of Beaver, has
(spent the Inst week or moro in Cedar
visiting friends and relatives. Mrs.
Yardloy is a sister to Mrs. Thomas
Urio.
t iiiaittMriit
- - i -
THE BUILDING
BOOM IS ON.
Much Activity is Notlcnblo, Particu
larly on Main Street, and Work
fs Being Rushed With Vigor
Cedar City presents rather nn ani
mated appearance these days with its
gangs of workmen demolishing old
buildings, sorting and removing the
materials, excavating, laying brick,
erecting frames, etc. It all looks
good to the natives who arc glad io
see the town going ahead,
Good progress is being mado on the
lG-foot, three story annex to the
Ccdnrs Hotel, under tho superinten
dency of Mr. George A. Wood, a local
product who has had a good deal of
experience in tho building gamo in the
northern part of tho state, and who is
handling this work for tho proprietor,
Mrs. C. G. Bell. Tho excavating will
soon bo completed, and tho cement
work gotten under way.
. Tho ground is. cleared iforhg riew
$25,000 building for tho Cedar Sheep
Association store, and Mr. Ed. Ash
ton of Salt Lako is expected here with
in a fow days to take chargo of the
work. It is proposed to have this new
structuro rendy for occupancy the
present season.
Superintendent Henry Ashton, who
has chargo of tho construction of tho
Parry-Jones garage and a number of
residences to bo built hero the present
season, is pushing work with much
vigor, and the walls of the garage are
rapidly being reared. There aro not
many idle men in town at present who
aro willing to work.
Thomas Perry has charge of tho
work on the Bladen garage and steam
laundry, and appears to be putting up
a very substantial building. Work on
tho walls is at a standstill there just
at present on account of a temporary
shortage of brick. Both these last
named buildings exceed 60x100 feet
in ground dimensions.
Bp. Matheson is Local Representative
Bishop Matheson ofxthis place is a
member of tho state committee to en
courage tho citizens' training camp
movement, und local persons feeling
interested in tho matter, or wishing
additional information, should confer
with him. He is prepared to furnish
application blanks and all informa
tion on tho subject.
Iron county ought to send a few
representatives, at least
CARD OF THANKS.
Mrs. E. C. Cox and family desire
to express their heart-felt thanks for
the assistance rendered, for tho ex
pressions of sympathy and condolence
tendered nnd tokens of esteem be
stowed during their late bereavement
in the death of a husband and father.
These many kindnesses nnd remem
brances are keenly appreciated.
U. A. C. EXTENSION
DIVISION MEETINGS
; . , ,
, Tho following changes havo been
made in tho itinerary of tho Utah
Agricultural College as published in
, our last issue,
i Hurricane. Wednesdny, Aug. 9, 2
p. m., spearato meetings -1 p. m.,
stock judging; 8 p. m., conjoint.
Rockville. Thursday, Aug. 10, 2 p.
m., separate" meetings; 4 p. m., stock
judging; 8 p. m., conjoint.
Little Zlon Canyon. Friday, Ang.
11.
Toquerville. Saturday, Aug. 12, 2 p,
m., soparato meetings; 4 p. m., stock
, judging; 8 p, m., conjoint.
V
SAY OLD GLORY "
WASJUGHTED,
Citizens Complain City Officials
Wet;c Neglegcnt in Hoisting
Colors on Fourth.
ELEVENTH HOUR REPORT
FLAG WAS WORN OUT.
Cnlvln Pendleton Comes to the Rescue
and Borrows Flag From Ccdnr's Ho
tel Which Is' Unfurled About Noon.
YOUR PLACt AND MY FLAG
(By Wilbur D. Nesbit)
Your Flag and my Flog! And oh,
how much It holds
Your land and my land secure
within its foldsl
Your heart and my heart beat quick
er at tho sight;
Sun-kissed nnd wind-tossed, red nnci
blue and white.
Tho ono Flag the great Flag the
Flag for mo and you
Glorifies all else beside the red and
white nnd blue!
Your Flag and my Flag! And how
it flies today
In your land and my land nnd half
a world away I
Roae-rcd and blood-red tho stripes
forever gleam;
Snow-white and soul-white tho
good forefathers' droam;
Sky-bluo and true-blue, with stars to
gleam aright
Tho gloried guidon of tho day; a shel
ter through the night.
Your Flag and my Flag! To ovory
star and stripe
The drums beasJjeargnd.
fifera shrilly pipe!
Your Flag nnd my Flag a blessing
in the sky;
'Your hope and my hope It never
hid a lie!
Homo land and far land nnd hnlf tho
world around,
Old Glory hears our glad salute and
ripples to the sound!
.Two or three citizens havo com
plained to The Record that there was
serious neglect on the pnrt of Bomo
of tho city officials in that no provis
ion wub mndo for tho displaying of
tho National Colors from the usunl
place on the city hall on the morning
of tho Fourth. Ono citizen, noting its
absence, telephoned tlio Mayor in re
lation to tho matter, and was ndvlsed
that tho flag was worn out and that
tho city had none to run up.
Another citizen, Calvin Pendleton,
noting its absence from tho accus
tomed place shortly before noon, at
onco took it upon himself to go, in
quest of a flag, and succeeded in lo
cating ono at tho Cedars Hotel, which
he borrowed und soon had Jt unfurled
to tho breeze on tho city hall flag polo.
Tho cicrcumstanco is unfortunate,
in that it reflects a lack of patriotism
and loyalty on tho part of city ofllc
als whoso duty it was to havo provided
for this matter, but in tho language of
tho Scriptures, "Let he among you
who is without sin cast the first
stone." In the light of this scripture,
we do not think that there nro many
of us in tho community who aro in 'a
position to offer very severe criticism
of the city administration. Most of
us wero busy with preparations to
go to Parowan or elsewhere to spend
the day, there being no celebration
provided hero, nnd the matter of Old
Glory and suitable decorations wero
pretty generally neglected. This is
not, howover, as it should be. There
never was a time in tho history of
our nation when tho peoplo should be
more patriotic or enthusiastic over our
colors; and wo should divest ourselves
of this spirit of apathy and show that
wo aro loyal and patriotic American
citiens. Let us one and all see to It
thut another Fourth of July docs not
find us, as neglectful of our nationul
honor as wo were this year. And lot
us seo thntithe colors are liberally dis
played on tho Twenty-Fourth.
At last arrangements have been
mado for the resumption of street
sprinkling, so far as Main street is
concerned, and the dust has been kept
laid much better this week than for a
few weeks past. The expense of
sprinkling is being bomo by tho busi
ness houses on tho ttroot.
Dr. Leonard has made a flying tripJf 'H
lo Salt Lake City sinco tho Foifrjth I ivl
nnd drovo back a now 40 horse power f '.H
Studobakor six roadster. This is a' ;'H
much moro powerful car than his Inst ' irH
ono nnd tho Doctor is now prepared to ' HH
blazo tho trail into all kinds of hew 41
country, iH
The Recoerd regrets that there was ) .,H
considerable boozing in evidence at?, 'T ' "!H
Pnrownn during tho Fourth of July " ' H
celebrn'tion, nnd to note that tho great- , Hi
or part of it was among Cedar City;. . Jfl
men and boys. It is further learned "' H
thnt It was a Cedar City car that went . jH
to Milford for tho load of beer and 11
Old Crow thnt caused tho mischief. l
And wo further regret that the offl- "H
cors wero not on hand to soizo tho .'H
stuff nnd arrest tho parties who brot i H
it there. fl
Last Sunday evening Mrs. C, G. '1
Bell gave n little informal dinner 'iH
party nt tho Cedars Hotel. Covers "f
were laid for nine people, including Vll
the host, and tho guests had an oppor- 1 H
tunity of testing the culinary attain- ffl
monts of tho now management of the IH
house, which proved very satisfying. lvH
After dinner discussion was in rela- H
tion to state politics and prohibition fll
question, and nn animated round-table aH
wns tho reBult. The following wore jJII
present: Mr. and Mrs. H. P. Petti- H
grow, Mrs. M. J. Macfarlanc, Mrs. B. IHI
F. Knoll, Dr. and Mrs. A. N. Leonard,
Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Wilkinson and Mrs. fl
C. G. Bell. IH
E. M. Corry and H. H. Lunt havo "rl
returned with their families 'from their 1
automobile tour through tho northern rH
part of tho stnto, and roport an enjoy- Jb
able trip, with a few minor exeep- Jl
tions, which only tended to make them - f
appreciate tho smooth portions of tho ., '-'''-vfljl
journey the better. Harry had a little -:iB
troublo with his Ford tho first day or sjF'H
two, through a failuro to understand &tf&W$k . ;i
some simple problem and Mr. Corry KKSmf ''f
was, gjvfin an invitation.to visit 4ha-tJ!R$&L!,'SB
wchleforiiiSlIfeerhd wa?ah"oIr " '"B
acquaintance whilo st&tto bank ex- Jk
nmincr, for stopping his car in front "B
of a firo hydrant in Salt Lako City. j 'H
The boys returned home fooling' jolly ' a
and woll. ll
,'iH
Dr. Leonard with a representative fil
of Tho Record took a run up tho can- l''H
yon Sunday afternoon with, tho Doc- Vvl
tor's car, to ascertain tho condition ?IIH
'of tho road. Wo wore gone from town 'VH
a littlo less than two hours and almost '''jH
reached the Jones & Bulloch coal r
mine. An appointment in town pre- -4l
vented us from going furthor, and not '4H
anything in tho condition of the road, ;&H
which is said to bo quito as good or Hml
better for somo miles f arthor than part ,:V,' I'lJBI
of that traveled. With tho expend!- llfll
ture of a few thousand dollars a fairly Hl
good auto rond could bo mado right "SM
on top of tho divide. This is some- WJ- JllSfliM
thing wo should all center our efforts ",f "rljB
and attention on, as u large tourist "' rl
business can be developed here when ll
once this road is opened. j -H
. :H
Can we expect anything clso than '
that the people will send their money ''; JH
to eastern mail order houses when Tl
most of the locacl merchants advertise V flH
so seldom in their homo paper? Tho v ' I
mail order merchants are always4 ll
present among the people with their ?1
big catalogues and special announc-
monts, with prices and full particu- H
lars, whilo most of the homo mer- j IHI
chants givo a littlo ad. onco in a while, "wH
just to sort of keep the homo paper , flH
from dying out altogether, but with ' ll
but little consideration to what they "'JH
contuin, This is not true in all cases, '"CH
to bo sure, but in a general way it is. NfcjH
Until tho homo merchants learn to do- tflflH
voto more attention to their adver- 1HB
Using, and to view it as an invest-- SHSt
ment instead of a matter of charity Ks?
to tho newspaper, they cannot hope to iTfe?
stop tho inronds of tho mail' order jj'yi
concerns. TB1I$
THE WEEK'S, OFFERINGS t jHjRrA
AT TnORLEY THEATRE 'jH
IHvCr
Following is the program of moving ' aBfc$!
nictme plays to bo shown at tho tiRsw?
Thorley Electric Theatro during tho MHK
week beginning Monday, July 10th; ' ' jJSH'&
Monday Fivo reel feature, "Tho aMrws
Senator," by Charles J. Ross. 'JHsEb
Tuesday 'Five reel Western play," IHP?
by the Universal Film Co, w' IBraS
Wednesday Fiva reol program by, Kjfl
tho Mutual Film company. v, lH9
Thursday 21st Episode from "the JHS
"Diamond, from tho Skies." ';,ir ''-ittHll
Eriday--"Thc Gray Mask," fiva reel 'ffMMJE
feature by tho World company. - C!affi5
Saturday Six reals from tho tG,enJ "' ' gWj
oral Film company. Western subjecTs, ,, f "JHH
