$25.O0$29.00. PPer - ' 7 V-X WEATHER-Utah: .Tonight .and H
I : - 3 Saturday Generally Fair; Not Much jH
H ' ' I Change in Temperature. IH
I F7rty-sixth Year-No 162 ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. i 1
I - OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, JULY 7, 1916. E.r. 3c0 ou.. M,er . ,. p.o,c. od., ut. i
Germans Begin Great Retreat I
i f p;m S "' j d7' 3 P' -"Vr "J88 irm Rol", s"ys wwi bs bcen receivei1 from Petrograd that, in consequence of their triple defeat in the sectors I
8 l"ga' hm Ml1 Baranoviclu, the Germans have begun to more their whole front toward the west .
GREAT BATTLE RAGING ALONG
; ENTIRE BRITISH FRONT IN FRANCE
New Drive Launched East of Albert and Important Tactical
Successes Gamed in Several Sectors Germans Recap
l hire Small Tract of Ground Lost British Capture
Another Trench After Severe Fighting in Which
I Enemy Suffers Heavy Casualties Lull on
French Front After Tremendous
' Fighting Heavy Bombard-
5 ing Continues.
r
London, July 7, 1 :23 a. m. The Russians have begun
1 1 a tremendous offensive on the Riga front where their artillery
, is destroying the German trenches, says a dispatch to the Ex-
t change Telegraph company from Vienna via Copenhagen.
" The bombardment, the dispatch adds, lasted 24 hours and
k the Germans were helpless before the Russian artille' which
' can now fire fifty shells as against one in 1914.
" London, July 7, 2:46 p. m. Capture by the British of a
German trench on a front of 1 ,000 yards east of La Boiselle,
in the Somme region, was announced officially today.
i
? Petrograd, July 7, via London, 7 :30 p. m. Following up
) i their advance in the region of the lower Styr the Russians have
I occupied two villages and a railway station.
I I The official announcement of today says that the village
of Komarow and Grad' and me railway station of Manevitchi
are now in Russian hands.
These three points are in the region to the west of Czar
torysk, where there has been violent fighting for several days,
the Germans having thrown in, heavy,reinforcements to check
the Russian advance toward the important strategic position
of Kovel. The Manevitchi is 1 4 miles west of Czartorysk on
the railway line between Sarnynd Kovel. Komarow and
Grady are southwest of Czartorysk A German retirement in
I this region was announced in Berlin today,
J A German retreat all along the line
of the Front in Russia fronf Riga
to Volhynia is reported today. The
I unofficial news to tliis effect comes
from Petrograd through Rome. It de
clares that a triple defeat for the Ger
, mans in the Riga, Kolki and Barano
h vichi sectors caused them to begin a
(? ..movement of their whole front west-
warn a.
' A great" oauic-is raging along vir-
t lually the entire from oc the British
offensive in northern Franco. At day-
I break the British launched a iyiw drive
east of Albert. Important tactic
successes were gained in several s
t tors, London announces. The Germans
r succeeded In occupying two or three
hundred yards of ground lost in tne
earlier British drives. .
Meanwhile the French, both nprth
and south of the Somme In the field
I of the great allied offensive, are rest-
I' Ing on the ground won in advances of
! U There Tfiull in infantry fighting
about Vcrdui. but artillery actions aro
still violent.
f London, July 7. nvorTcer-
British resumed the oKcnsh o on cer
Contalmaison, as nmtL progress.
Boiselle, the British made progr
In the region of Tniepj t
mans regained a section oi
ground.
The statement says:
"This morning in cof " " -.
i of the battlefield east of Albert w
sumed a vigorous offensive a y h.
The Germans at ftrenches
ed heavy attacks on our new
In the vicinity of the Ancre m
of Fricourt ilVw ,n Sb along
lent fighting is now In ; P"G Ancr0
the whole front between tne
and Montauban. cftVeral lmport-
"Up to the present sejeraM v
ant tactical successes have been s
' ed by our infantry " lh JUla
Overillers, La Boiselle J- j th
,- maison. but northwest oT Th
enemy succeeded temPOul Qf
gaining two or three hunarea
I, lost ground."
. Last Night's Fighting.
The operations of last nt before
f the resumption of the "nt arG
1 ported in the foregoing mem :
described in an earlier ofnenu
munlcation as follows. tj boin.
"Last night the enemy f vnaffay
barded our new Pos ons at ,lo
and Montauban rymatory
using in some PIacs Bojselle after
Bbells. Eastward of J f lhe enemy
severe fighting in Jh captured
buffered heavy casualties , e j iqqq
another trench on a eslab.
k ards where we are nou
H hshed. rrhipnval a doter-
1 -southwest of Tbiepja was
W mined attack on om new
completely cru,sU;lerv was parLicu-
l
ODposite PTulluch. Our artillerj' shelled
the enemy's communication and-billets
at various places. We success
fully sprang two mines opposite Auchy
and Ilulluch."
Second Phase of Offensive.
London, July 7, 11:55 a. m The,
second phase of the great battle on
the western front has now begun. The
artillery has been brought up to new
positions an dis again battering the
German defenses. The bombardment
extends as far northward as La Bas
see and Armentieres and, according
hfeai&esjt. unofficial advices, is par
ucr iy intense. British long rango
guns are shelling the German positions
and the roads In thoir .rear. ,aj)d until
the infantry again leaves the" trenches
it will be uncerLaln where the next
attacks are to be launched.
In addition to inflicting losses on
the Germans in men, munitions and
territory, the Anglo-French offensive
is reported to have compelled thorn
to withdraw some of their forces from
the Verdun fronL Consequently it Is
expected in London that the army,
which for nearly five months with
stood the German attacks in that reg
ion, will have some relief from con
tinnal fighting.
Russians Well Supplied.
On the eastern front the Russians,
who now apparently have a better
supply of guns and. ammunition than
their adversaries, seem to pass from
one Phase to the next without inter
mission. General Letchitzky s army
which conquered Bukowina and cut
the railway between Delatyn and Kor
osmeso, is advancing In an effort com
SlSllv to overcome the Austrian for
ces on that front. General Kalcdlnes
f, continuing to deliver heavy strokes
aealns tie Austrlans and Germans
who are endeavoring to keep him from
Kovel With these operations in full
swig! the Russians to the north have
inaugurated an offensive from Riga
n Baranovichi. Along the northern
end of the "ne, from Riga to Dvlnsk.
a freat bombardment has begun while
from a point east of Vilna to Barano
i.K artillery preparation was fol
yrf bv Infantry attacks In which
SfnusataiS report they made many
nHRoners repulsing German counter
Stacks NeaV Smorgon, the Russians
and Germans also are engaged In a
SeireRruemarnlaeSAwaits A.Ned. Move
Rumania, it is said here, is awaiting
JnnvP bv the entente forces at
some move s D iul interest
Sf Zmes throughout the Can
ed in the battles in b RuggInn
CaSUv awhich a .advancing toward
Srmi, has l fallen back some 80 miles
Bafi nressure from great forces
UImX were brought against it, but
oisewhere ?rom the Black sea to the
PeSim frontier", the Russians, accord
Persian statements, are more
inS ,i din- their own. No news has
vtUon receded recently from the Brit
uhJmy in Mesopotamia but it Is
ieHeved inactivity has been enforced
by the great heat-
Russians Make Big Haul.
Petrograd, July 6f.via London,v9s30
MAP SHOWING ALLIED GAINS; ONE OF MEN DIRECTING ATTACK
' ALBERT FJ5.MA Lfr, M 'i'"iM
ALLIED offensive: (IrlfeES CHAULNEbW &wSBBIf v
k .. l j Sk J General Sir Henry H. Wilson.
his place. One of the most able of
The tremendous allied offensive in which was promised a year ago last them all is General Sir Henry H.
France indicates that the British May. Kitchener is dead, but the Wilson, who is- one of a small group
have at last begun the huge drive British have other leaders to take of leaders directing the great attack.
p. m. The following official state
ment was issued -tonighUjy the-war
office:
"The number of prisoners we took
on July 4 and 5 during the fighting
which is still going on west of the line
of the Styr and below the town of
Kolki totals more than 300 officers
and 7415 men, mostly unwounded. We
also captured six guns, 23 machine
guns, several thousand rifles, two
searchlights, eleven bomb throwers
and 73 ammunition lights.
"We repulsed violent German at
tacks near Gruziatyn. On the right
bank of the Dniester in the region of
Jidattcheff and Hotzizrz, there was
desperate fighting.
Germans Driven Back.
"There was a lively artillery duel
In many sectors of the front north of
the Plnsk marshes. East of Barano
vichi the enemy launched several des
perate counter-attacks which were re
pulsed Several times the enemy
opened gusts of fire with his heavy
and light guus against the region of
the village of Labuzy, east of Barano
'vichl. Under cover of this fire the
enemy delivered two violent counter
attacks. We drove him back on both
occasions, bringing to bear on him the
fire of our artillery, machine guns and
-rihes."
""V Paris War Report.
Paris. July.. 7, 11:45 a. m. Quiet pre
vailed last nigl.t on both sides of the
Somme, says today's war office state
ment. The artillery of both sides was ac
tive on the left and right banks of the
Meuse, especially on the Thlaumont
earthworks and in the Fleury and
Chenois sections. A small German
attack on the French trenches at the
Le Pretre woods failed.
German aeroplanes yesterday drop
ped bombs on tho open town of Leure,
killing eleven persons all of whom, ex
cept one, were women or children.
Two German machines were brought
down near (Mezleres.
French Official Statement.
The statement says:
"The night passed quietly on both
sides of the Somme.
"On the left bank of the Mouse
there was an Intermittent bombard
ment while on the right bank the ar
tillery fighting became violent In the
vicinity of the Thlaumont work and
In the sectors of Floury and Chenois.
At Le Pretre wood tho enemy yester
day delivered a small attack upon one
of our trenches, but were driven out
of the position where they succeeded
In gaining lodgment. In this same
sector a surprise attack by us was In
all respects successful along a front of
200 yards. Our grenade throwers
cleaned out the trench of the enemy
and we brought back some prisoners.
German Throw Bombs.
"German aeroplanes yesterday
threw several bombs on the open town
of Leure. Eleven persons were killed
and three were wounded. With the ex
cptiou of one soldier, all the victims
were either women or children. This
was an act of reprisal for our aerial
activity of July G, .when one of our air
squadrons threw down with success
forty bombs from the railway Junction
at Hem to tho west of Charleville. On
the return trip from this point there
were a number of engagements with
German machines In which our escort
ing neroplanes took part. Two German
machines were brought down, one
near Mezleres and the other in the
region of Leffincourt."
(Continued on Page 3)
'
RUSSO-JAPANESE
ALLIANCEfORMEfi
New Treaty Binding Two
Countries to Enter Into No
Foreign Agreements
Against Each Other
Signed.
"OPEN DOOR" IN CHINA
German Aggrandizement in
the Far East After the War
to Be Prevented.
Tokio, July 7, 4 p. m. The Japanese
foreign office today announced as the
substanco of the Russo-Japanese con
vention signed at Petrograd on July
3 the following:
First Japan will take part in no ar
rangement or political combination di
rected against Russia. Russia will
take part in no arrangement or politi
cal combination directed against
Japan.
Second In case the territorial
rights or special interests in the Far
East of one of the contracting par
ties which are recognized by the other
contracting party are menaced, Japan
and Russia will consult wi,th each
other on measures to adopt with a
view to supporting or extending assist
ance for the safeguarding and defense
of these rights and Interests.
Open Door In China.
To a question from The Associated
Press representative as to what ef
fect the alliance would have on the
open door and the integrity of China
tho foreign office replied:
"The convention Is effectually an
emphasis upon and an extension of
tho Anglo-Japanese alliance based up
on tho territorial integrity of China
whose open door and integrity are
now endangered. American tradepnd
mterests are in no wise affected "
Secret Clauses Denied.
The foreign office denied affirma
tions in Japanese newspapers that
the convention contained secret claus
es, declaring that while the summary
given out was the substance of the
convention it also was the virtual
language of the document
The convention, Is virtually an al
liance, Is regarded here as of historic
Importance ns concerns the future de
velopment of Far East world politics
generally. It ends a long period of
hostility between tho two empires,
which culminated in the Russo-Japanese
war and strengthens the position
of Japan as a first class power.
Pooling Interests.
Now that Japan and Russian are
pooling- their Interests In tho Far
East they -will free themselves from
the necessity of regarding each other
as possible enemies In the future and
from the maintenance of large bodies
for troops on their respective fron
tiers. The Impression cn Tokio is that the
convention is framed to meet attempts
at tho extension of German influence '
in the Far East believed to be unde
sirable whilo the hands of both pow-jc
ers are strengthened in dealing with
the situation in China.
Englishmen and Frenchmen claim
that the accord will check efforts at
German aggrandizement after the war
and prevent China becoming the cause
I of a new International turmoil.
Japanese Are Elated.
The Japanese are elated over the
conclusion of the convention and the
signing of the document will be com
memorated at a ministerial banquet
and by a popular lantern procession.
The newspapers welcome the exten
sion of Japanese influence. The Or
ient Times says:
"England, France, Russia and Japan
banded together can thwart all Ger
man intrigues for a subsequent war.
Furthermore the maintenance of peace
in the Far East must fall more heavi
ly than ever upon the shoulders of
Japan and Russia.
"It Is learned that the entente has
decided upon the exclusion in future
of Germany from the quintuple coali
tion regulating China and that it has
been decided to sound American fi
nanciers regarding the active partici
pation of America of a loan to China
for the reorganization of the republic.
oo
HEALTH SERVICE
SENDSJXPERTS
Six Men Ordered to New
York City to Aid in Sup
pressing Epidemic of In
fantile Paralysis.
Washington. July 7. Six experts of
the United States public health ser
vice wero ordered to New York City
today to co-operate with the state and
city "health authorities in suppressing :
the epidemic of infantile paralysis
there.
No Sign of Abatement.
New York, July 7. With city, state :
and federal authorities fighting tho '
disease the epidemic of Infantile par- 1
alysls showed little signs of abatement I
today. During tho 24 hours ending at
10 o'clock this morning twenty more
children died. Nineteen of this num-
bor succumbed in Brooklyn. There i
wero eighty-seven new cases reportod. 5
. I
Child Dies In Baltimore. I
Baltimore, Md., July 7. A two year- I
old child died of infantlo paralysis at 1
a hospital here today. So far as is
known this Is tho only case of the I
disease in Baltimore.
. . rvr
PRIVATE HAS HAND BLOWN OFF.
Nogales, Ariz., July 7. Private
Charles Nelson, company M, Twelfth
regulars, Infantry, had his left hand
blown from his wrist tonight in a
mysterious explosion which followed,
ho said, an attack by two unidentified
persona. Tho surgeon who attended
him said that nothing less than tho
explosion of a bomb, stick of dyna
mite, or poiutblank discharge of a
double-barreled shot gun, could have
caused tho injury.
The alleged assault took place about
100 yards outside the lines of the
Twelfth infantry camp on a well trav
eled road. Tho explosion was heard
r nearly a mile.
SECRETARY LANSING SENDS NOTE I
ACCEPTING CARRANZA'S PROPOSAL I
United States Is Prepared Immediately to Exchange Views as
to Practical Plan to Remove Finally and Prevent Recur- M
rence of Difficulties Which Have Been Source of
Controversy Between Mexico and
American Government. H
BAKER CALLING OUT THE ARMY RESERVES I
Regulars to Replace Guardsmen Who Have Been Released 1
Because of Having Dependent Families 500 Militia- JH
men Already Released. H
Washington, July 7. A note formal
ly accepting General Carranza's pro
posal that differences between the
United States and the de facto govern,
ment of Mexico be settled by direct
negotiations was handed today to
Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambas
sadordesignate.
Secretary Lansing took a draft of
the note to today's cabinet meeting
and had it delivered promptly after
the cabinet adjourned. The course
to be pursued already had been agreed
upon by President Wilson and his
advisors.
Text of Note.
The text of the note, addressed to
Mr. Arredondo, follows:
Sir: I have the honor to acknowl
edge the receipt of your communica
tion of July 4, 191 C, in which yot
transcribe a note addressed to me bj
the secretary of foreign relations ol
your government and to request thai
you will transmit to him the following
reply:
"Mr. Secretary:
"I have the honor to acknowledge
the receipt of your courteous note
transmitted to me by Senor Arredondc
on the 4th instant, in which you refei
to my notes of June 20 and June 25th
and to assure you of the sincere gratl
fication of my government at the
frank statement of the difficulties
which have unfortunately arisen in
our relations along the international
boundarv and the unreserved expres
sion of the desire of your 'government
to reach an adjustment of these diffl
culties on a broad and amicable basis.
The same spirit of friendship and of
solicitude for the continuance of cor
dial relations betwen our two coun
tries inspires my government, which
equally desires an immediate solution
of the matters of difference which
have long vexed both governments
"It is especially pleasing to my gov
ernment that the de facto government
of Mexico is disposed to give quick
as well as practical consideration in
a spirit of concord to the remedies
which may be applied to the existing
conditions. Reciprocating the same
desire the government of the United
States is prepared immediately to ex
change views as to a practicable plan
to remove finally and prevent a re
currence of the difficulties which have
been the source of the controversy.
"Accept, Mr. Secretary, the renewed
assurances of my highest considers
tion,
"I am yours very sincerely,
(Signed) ROBERT LANSING.
Assembling Army Reserves.
The war department was busy as
sembling for the first time in history
the United States regular army re
serve of four or five thousand en
listed men recently retired from ac
tive service but still subject to call
in case of "war or emergency." An
nouncement was made last night that
these men would be summoned to as
sist in organizing additional regular
army units about to be formed under
the new national defense act.
On tho other hand, a material di
minution of nation guard forces for
border duty was In prospect as a re
sult of Secretary Baker's order au
thorizing discharge from service of
those guardsmen with dependent fam
ilies. Conferences Over Finances.
The series of conferences between
Counsellor Folk of the state depart
ment and Eleslo Arredendo, Mexican
unbassador-designate, for which the
forthcoming note doubtless prepares
'he way, may extend beyond the ques
tion of protecting the border against
uture bandit raids and go Into the
sore need of the Carranza government
or financial support. This possibility
created considerable Interest among
wimfnislratlon officials and diplo
mats today. It was regarded as an
Indication jhat the United States
wishes to assist the neighbor repub
lic to bring order out of Its Internal
turmoil. There was no thought, how
ever, that the question of first im
portance In diplomatic discussions
would be anything except protecting
the border.
Nebraska Guards Entrain.
Lincoln, Nebr., July 7. The Fourth
Regiment and sanitary corps, Nebras
ka National Guard, entrained at 9:35 ;
o'clock this morning for the Mexican
border. The contingent consisted of
828 men and 56 officers. The troops ,
went over the Burlington railroad for J
a destination not made public on ac- M
count of the censorship established H
! by the war. Colonel -Eberly is In com- M
maud of the Fourth regiment and Cap- jH
- tain Smith is in charge of the sani- M
tary corps. The contingents occupied jH
' 28 cars in their sections. These are j
the first Nebraska troops to leave for M
' the border.
H
Ranking Officer Arrives. M
Nogales, Ariz., ,uly 7. Brigadier 'H
General Robert Lankowski, ranking M
' officer of the California militia, ar- jH
rived here last night with his staff H
and 20 men of the signal corps, ield j
1 ambulance and hospital corps. -1
Investigating a Murder. M
' Columbus, N. M., July 7. Military H
p authorities are investigating today the H
. killing of C. W. Nasco, a private of IH
. Company E, Second battalion, United H
; States Engineers, at a camp between IH
' here and the field base in Mexico. IH
According to reports received at mili- M
, tary headquarters here, Nasco was M
killed in a quarrel with J. Van Gor-
J don, a comrade.
More Guards Arrive. M
Nogales, Ariz., July 7 A Troop of H
i the Fifth Regiment, Connecticut Na- H
tional Guard arrived here today. I
I Chicago, July 7. Approximately 500 H
soldiers of the regular army, now on
; the reserve list, will be called to re- M
place guardsmen In the central de- vM
, partment having dependent families, M
; it was announced today at headquar- JB
. ters of Major General Barry, dopart- jB
ment commander. 'J H
Washington, July 7. All Americans
have been talc en from Progreso and H
all ports south of Vera Cruz including H
those on sisal plantations of Yucatan, H
Captain Burage of the battleship Nc- M
braska at Vera Cruz reported today to M
the navy department. The gunboats H
Wheeling and Dolphin took American H
refugees from Puerto Mexico. H
oo 1
CARRANZA WARNS I
UNITED STATES I
State Department Advised of H
Further Villa Outlawry and H
Suggests All Possible H
Vigilance Be Used. H
BANDITS HEADED NORTH H
1
De Facto' President Suggests H
Careful Patrol of Border and jH
Promises Every Possible H
Co-operation. H
Washington, July 7. On Instruc- H
tions from General Carranza the Mexi- 'H
can embassy today advised the state il
department of tho virtual destruction IH
of a de facto force Wednesday by a Hf
large Villa band at Corral. Chihuahua, H
and suggested that the American bor- jH
dor patrol exercise all possible vigl- H
lance to prevent the outlaws from raid jH
ing into the United Slates jH
In his dispatch to the embassy Gen- IH
era! Carranza said he feared the ban- iH
dits had crossed the desert in an at- H
tempt to reach the border and cause H
further difficulties. He suggested that H
the American troops patrol carefully H
between Boqulllas and Ojinaga aud JH
promised that every possible effort iH
would be made by his forces to ap- ul
prehend and disperse the bandits. fH
Funston Reports Villa Activity. H
San Antonio, Texas, July 7 General H
Funston's advices from the border to- H
day indicated no change In the mill- j
tary situation. General Pershing's re- H
port that a rumor had reached him of H
Villa's men at from S00 to 2000. jM
Trains bearing guardsmen to border H
stations were moving In fewer num-
hers today. The greater part of the H
national guard that was prepared to H
respond to the call for service already H
lias reached the border. H
