Tie
new
Tenth Year, Number 7.
LIBERAL, SEWARD COUNTY, KANSAS, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916
$1.50 Per Year
BIO PARADE 2ND DAY OP FAIR
The Fair management has ar
ranged to have a great trades parade
on the Liberal streets On the second
day of the Fair, which will be Wed
nesday, September 13th.
; Practically every business house
In Liberal will be represented In this
parade. Every Arm-or Individual in
the town Is Invited to participate In
this event. There are no special
regulations to follow. Each Indi
vidual Is expected to design some
thing that will be interesting and will
advertise their business. There1
should be a large crowd in Liberal
on that morning to witness this
event, and a few dollars spent In
mis way ror advertising purposes
will be well placed.
. The Fair Association will also give
a prize of $10 for the prettiest float
Or car In the parade, not decorated
tor advertising purposes, and a prize
of $10 for the most comical or gro
tesque float, car or rig of any kind
not designed for advertising.
This parade will be one of the
most interesting things that have
been staged In Liberal In recent
years. A few years ago the State
Fair at Hutchinson had a similar
parade and Liberal raised $500 to
put a broom corn float in that parade.
and people generally felt that It was
money well spent.
) This event should bring the
greatest crowd to Liberal on the
morning of September 13th that the
town has ever known. . Every one in
Liberal should begin to plan to make
it a success.
TRIED TO COMMIT SUICIDE
; Wesley Jones, a farmer living near
Balko, Oklahoma, attempted suicide
Tuesday. He stabbed himself In the
- throat with a pocket knife, complete
ly severing his windpipe, and think
tng it wasn't a sure Job he cut the
arteries of his right wrist, hoping to
bleed to death if the other method
tailed. He was brought to the Lib
eral Hospital at once, where his
jkreathtnfe- Apparatus war-patcfred to
gether and at the time this Is writ
ten he is resting easy. Mr. Jones's
mind went slightly to the bad a few
years ago while serving on a jury In
Beaver, and one or two other difficul
ties since that time aggravated the
case, so it is presumed this attempt
at his own life was the result. He
Is expected to recover.
, A POSTPONED CELEBRATION
i. Because of the busy harvest sea
son the Pleasant Valley folks post
poned their celebration of the Fourth
at the Davis grove, until July 12. On
that day they plan to have everything
that goes to make a good, sane
Fourth of July celebration,
j A big basket dinner will be served
.'at noon. At 2 o'clock a literary prc
'gram will be given under the direc
tion of the local W. C. T. U. After
,the close of the program the re
mainder of the day will be spent with
games, races and a social good time.
Refreshments will be served all
day' by the W. C. T. U. Everybody
invited to come.
True Economy Must Start With
the Maker
Don't think that you can do all of the economizing and do
it by paying a low price True economy starts with the maker
and extends through the policy of the merchant selling the goods
t6 you. . For instance;
Styleplus (ft 17
riAthae 4Pl
TDOOI MAM KIOUTIOIO
"The same price the nation over."
are the result of scientific economy on the part of a great manu
facturing organization. '' Buying power is centered on Styleplus
quality. Manufacturing effort is centered on it. Little econo
mies multiply into splendid results and a Baving for you.
Our policy is also to serve many customers at small profit
per sale,, greater, volume'makeB up our profit. Every Styleplus
garment is guaranteed. ; The all-wool fabrics, the tailoring and
the distinctive style raise the clothes above their price. Every
man can be fitted in a model that suits his personality.
Then lest you forget Stein-Block Smart Clothes with
61 years high-grade clothing tailoring behind them.
ATTENTION, LADIES
We still have a nice little assortment of ladies' hats ranging
in price from $3.00 to $7.50. We never carry a ladies' hat over
from one season to another. As long as they last that won't be
long you can buy any ladies' hat in our store at
ONLY 98c
CHASi SUMMERS & SONS
LIBERAL, KANSAS, GIJMON, OKLAHOMA, DALHART, TEXAS
v4 v
il
n.K.MIk MM
J
la nunc; r iwf.ii bwiai.m i
Ray Wright of Cananea, Sonora!,
4
Mexico, is here on a visit with his
mother, Mrs. C. R. Wright, and his
brothers and sisters. Mr. Wright is
a superintendent in one or me de
partments of the copper mining con
cern at Cananea. He has been lit
that section for the last 18 years and
Is well ' acquainted with condition
there. He gives an interesting ac
count of the Mexican situation, hav
ing a knowledge of the several fac
tions and the nature of the Mexican
generally, and an acquaintance with
some of the leaders. There are about
Ave . thousand Mexican miners em
ployed by his company.
Mr. and Mrs. Jas. Jones, Misses
LaFaun Wllkins, Desta Crackel, and
Doili Hill and Vernon Gldley, Chas.
Buchanan, and Marion Hays attend
ed the Fourth of July celebration at
Beaver Tuesday. ,;,
Banking is Our
Business
If you have business with
the bank we are glad at all
times to help in any way
consistent with good banking-
First National Bank
LIBERAL, KANSAS
' Member of The Fedi ral Reserve Bank of Kansas City, and
operating under U. S. Government supervision and control.
TODDLEROUND MARCHES OUT
They've taken little Toddleround and dressed him up in brown,
And it was only yesterday that he was playing here ;
A crumpled bonnet on him, and a little ragged gown,
And running for his Mummykins to kiss away a tear.
They've drilled him and they've filled him with a lot of pep and vim
And they've got him in his regiment and marched off to war,
And his mother's arms are aching, and she's calling out to him ;
Her Toddleround that yesterday was playing on the floor.
Oh, we hadn't hardly noticed how our lad was gaining weight,
That he'd got a safety razor, and a beard upon his chin,
But he'd done a lot of strutting, and of thinking here of late,
And the bugle called to battle and our boy was 'listed in.
They drilled him and they trained him and they marched him with
the lot,
And we saw our baby packing up his little kit to go
He's a brave one with his talking, but the sands are burning hot,
And a thirst is like a torture on the plains of Mexico. I
He's a brave one with his talking, but his mother, here, and me,
We are dreaming of the little things our baby used to say ;
We can hear him laughing, singing, just as happy as can be,
Down the border of the garden where our baby used to play.
But he's grown up now, a soldier, and he's talking big and bold,
And he's gone and joined his regiment and marching off to war,
And his mother's arms are aching for the babe they used to hold ;
And her heart is burning, bursting for his prattle on the floor.
Jay B. Iden.
PLAYGROUND ASSOCIATION
The Playground is starting off In
fine shape. Instructor Heat wood has
been busy the past week getting
things going and ordering some new
appartus. The track is being dragged
and this week will see the operations
well under way. The executive
board has arranged for the boys to
take a Bwim in Craig's pool once or
twice a week. The boys will go there
Friday of this week. There will be a
meeting of the Association Friday,
July 7th, and it Is hoped that all
members will be present as this is
the regular meeting and some im
portant measures are to be discussed.
LIBERAL BOOSTERS TO DODGE
CITY
Liberal had a large representation
In Dodge City for the Fourth and
the white hats with "Liberal Boost
ers" bands were much In evidence.
More than a dozen cars in all made
the trip and a good many went down
on the train. The trip serves to
show the value of organization.
Probably several other towns had as
large a delegation as Liberal, but
the white hats made the Liberal
bunch stand out from the rest and
everybody' who attended the races
know that "Liberal is surely on the
map."
, E. J. Thayer made a business trip
toulllson Wednesday.. ,. .
WILL FRAME NEW ORDINANCE
At the council meeting Wednes
day night it was agreed to call a
special meeting of the Chamber of
Commerce to draw up a new traffic
ordinance to take the place of the
one being tried out. The present
ordinance, although a great Improve
ment over conditions as they existed
before It went into effect, is not ex
actly what the city wants and it is
hoped that at the meeting some
medium may be struck which will
meet the demands of Liberal and be
satisfactory to all concerned.
The Chamber of Commerce will
meet tonight in the I. O. O. F. hall
An enthusiastic crowd greeted the
several trains conveying the soldiers
which were bound to the border the
last several days. Each train made
a stop and the soldiers accepted the
opportunity to get off the train and
stretch their legs some by running
about town. Soldiers from Massa
chusetts and New Hampshire pre
dominated. There were no Kansans
In the series of trains through here.
The boys from Massachusetts ap
peared to be proud of the fact that
they were the first to Invade the
southwest and from the amount of
the enthusiasm that they carried
with them, the Mexicans will have a
pretty hot time if the boys from old
staid Massachusetts are turned loose
and given the word to do something.
SOUTHWESTERN TRIO
TO GIVE CONCERT HERE
The Girl's Trio from Southwest
ern Collpge of Wlnfield, will give a
sabred concert In the Methodist
church of this city Sunday morning,
July 8. Their program will consist
of vocal and Instrumental solos, du
ets, trio numbers and readings. No
admission will be charged, bub a col
lection will be taken to provide the
sulary and trayeling expenses of the
girls. 1
The company Is composed of Irma
Macklin, reader, Edith Gilbert, so
prano, Mary Falls, pianist, and Vel-
ina McPeek, mezzo-soprano. They
will be In the field during the entire
summer and will give about ninety
programs. This is the sixth season
that a Trio has represented South
western, and the organization has
become very popular over the territory.
AS TO REGISTRATION
There appears to be some con
fusion regarding the matter of regis-,
tration. Since there has been no
general election held in the city or
county since the books have been
open for registration there is no rea
son for those who registered last year
to make appearance before the city
clerk for registration that they may
vote In the coming primary or at the
next general election, provided that
no one has moved from his or her.
place of residence since having reg
istered. For Instance if the elector
moved his place of residence from
Ward No. 1 to Ward No. 2 since hav
ing registered last year, he or she
must register again at this time, or
lose the right to vote at the primary.
All those having lost their residence
and residing In the city must reg
ister ten days before the election or
they, cannot vote. Ten days before
the election the city clerk will close
the registration books and no fur.
ther opportunity will be given for
registration at that election. There
fore if you have not registered on or
before the 22nd day of July, you will
have no vote at the primary. Any
one who has been In the state six
montnB ana tnirty clays in tne pre
cinct may vote, If registered in time,
in cities of the second class. This
reader is of no interest to those in
the city whose names now appear up
on the registration books, but there
are many who have not caused their
names to be of record. Every elector
must appear In person at the city
clerk's office. You may appear dur
ing the regular hours of the day, at
noon, and after the evening meal un
til ten o'clock at night for the next
twenty days at the office of the city
clerk to have your name on the reg
istration books and there is no rea
son why every elector, who desires a
vote, should not be registered.
RAY MILLMAN.
L. E. TIPTON DEAD
Louis E. Tipton, who has run a
dray line in Liberal for several years,
died.. Wednesday afternoon at the
Liberal Hospital, dtttt reaomof
from uremic poisoning', with which
he had been afflicted for a number of
years. Mr. Tipton was 66 years, I
months and 2 days old at the time
of his death. Funeral services were
conducted yesterday afternoon by
Rev. H. F. Bolton at the Christian
church and Interment was made in
the Liberal cemetery. Mr. Tipton
was a good citizen and a hard work
ing man, and his friends will regret
to note his passing on.
BAND GOES TO STRATFORD
The Liberal band boys were called
to Stratford, Texas, Monday night to
play tor the Fourth of July celebra
tion at that place. In the absence of
the regular leader Leo Wllley was
called over from Forgan and had
charge of the directing end of the
music. The boys were equipped with
Liberal Booster" bats by the Cham
ber of Commerce, and didn't fall to
let It be known on the trip that they -hailed
from Liberal. They report a
large crowd and a fine time at the lit
tle town of Stratford.
Ladies' Watches, $10 to $30
ASK TO SEE THEM
Does your watch run satisfactorily f If. sot, bring
it to us. We can make it keep time or your money, re
funded. . We guarantee our repair work to giye satisfac
tion in every way. ,'
O. J. WILLINS, Jeweler
' Taylor's Drug Store
