1 . "'
fedttato
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, .MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916.
NUMBER 54.
n
et
WILL OPEN WOMEN'S
REST ROOM NEXT WEEK
Comfort Station In the Court
House Has Been Fitted Up
By Women's Club.
The Woman's rest room which
has recently been fitted up in
the east upstairs room . of the
court house' under the supervis
ion of the Woman's Club of Lex-
Judges and Clerks Appointed
For Local Option Election.
The city council met Monday
night and appointed the follow
ing judges and clerks for the
local option election, Saturday,
July 1, 1916:
First Ward: Judges, Thomas
Rosewall, Peter Malott, J. J.
Carroll, Henry Starkebaum, Emi
son Chanselor, C. A. Bledsoe.
Clerks Thomas Wedge, M. E.
PLATFORM OF DEMOCRACY IS
Council Proceedings.
Willi UlU OWlUili ixrH injght in reeular session
; Mayor Minor presiding.
with
ington will be open Saturday,
July 8th. This comfort station Easter, U. G. Phetzing, Charles
is the outgrowth of a suggestion ' Johnson,
made to the club women of Lex- gecond Ward. judges-G. C.
ington by J. F. Winn, who in a SchawCf IIarry Blee Sr A. L.
letter to the club suggested thatTuf w n-rf w n nunran.
such an institution was an ui
ent need in this city. Mr. Winr
pointed out the fact that other
towns much smaller than Lex
ington had made adequate pro
visions for the comfort of their
women visitors and shoppers dur
ing their stay in town, and show
ed whprp T.PYi'nrtm was Kflrllv
indifferent to the comfort of
their guests in this respect.
The club women gladly took
hold of the suggestion and as a
result of their efforts a cosy and
comfortable rest room has been !
provided. The county court i
Kciieiuusiy gave uie wumeii pei-
mission to use a vacant room on
the second floor of the court
house. The merchants of the
town donated the furnishings,
and cash contributions were
made by those who could not
donate from their stocks. This i
money will be expended in the
upkeep of the rest room. The '
John Etherton. Clerks George
Venable; P. W. Thompson, Peter
Mulligan, J. W. Shouse.
Third Ward: Judges B. F.
Eaton, N. E. Baskett, W. L.
Groves, W. V. Curtis, Chas. W.
Taubman, 0. L. Bauerle. Clerks
C. K. Waddell, John Burris,
James Caldwell, Earl Wallace.
Fourth Ward: Judges Thos.
Young, John A. Mosby, W. C.
Herd, Sr., Arthur Simmerman,
John Rosewall, Chas. Simmons.
Clerks Chas. Guillion, George
Gaffin, John E. Cross, John Lier-man.
Miss Graves' Pupils Recital.
The pupils' recital which was
held in Murrell Auditorium Fri
day night was attended by a
large and enthusiastic audience,
There were about do young peo
ple, who took part in the recital
The first honors were awarded to
ATiaa IAck flreercr arirl AlViprt
room is furnished in easy chairs, , the gecond h(mor being
coucr.es, lawes, smuonery, , tQ m Amie Er5ckson
magazines, telephone, ice water, j
in fact everything that will con
tribute to the shopper's or trav
eler's comforts and needs has
been looked after.
The rest room is by no means
Sandofrd Sellers, Jr., left Wed
nesday for a business trip to
Kansas City and Denver.
a rest room for the exclusive use be on the alert for improve
of the Woman's Club. It is in-'ments that will contribute to the
tended for the use of every Convenience and comfort of its
woman visitor and shopper who guests. Maid service will be
comes into the town, and the provided in the mornings and
members of the Woman's Club the place wjll at all times be kept
are simply the supervisors of clean and cozy. The woman
the institution. A committee of shoppers and tourists are espec
the club members has been ap- ially invited to make use of this
pointed to look after the rest comfort station and the mem
room for a' period of one year as bers of the Woman's Club who
follws: Mrs. C. E. Yingling, Mrs. , have made it possible cannot be
R. N. Allen, Mrs. Worth Sates, commended too highly for their
Mrs. J. W. Sydnor, Mrs. Eugene rccomplishments.
Marshall and Mrs. Claude John- j Plans for a formal opening o
son. This supervising commit-the rest room are under discuss
tee will direct the care and up- ion and will probably be an
keep of the room and will always jounced in a few days.
Detailed Analysis Shows Unrivalled Record of Promises Redeem
ed in Four Years of President's Administration Farm
er and Laborer Get Action Instead of Empty
G. 0. P. Phrases.
In his letter to the Progressive National Committee, large
ly devoted to a discussion of the support given by the German
American Alliance to Mr. Hughes and the reasons for his own
defeat, Colonel Roosevelt included the following charactnstic
statement: j
It is folly to pay heed to any of his promises in the ,
platform on which he (President Wilson) now stands, in j
view of the fact that almost every important promise on
which he stood four years ago has since been broken.
It is a maxim of the courts that when a witness is false
in one statement he may be regarded as false in all.
The Democratic party, in its platform of 1912, promised
tariff reform, and tariff reform is now a fact. It promised
additional and more constructice laws for the regulation of
corporations and the Clayton anti-trust law is the result.
Direct Elections and Income Tax.
The nlatfnrm commented utxm the passage by Congress
of an amendment to the Constitution to permit the enactment
of an income tax law and another amendment providing for
the direct election of Senators the resolutions tor the two
amendments having been put through by the Democratic
party and both laws are now written upon the statute books.
There was a plank for banking and currency reform and
the promise has had its fullfillment in the best banking sys
tem ever given to the people of the United States and is gener
ally approved by the financial world.
A rural crdits system was promised to the farmers of the
country who had been promised such reform by the Republican
party for twenty years without fulfillment. As a result of
the ascendencv of the Democratic party to power, as a result
of President Wilson's leadership, both branches of Congress
have now passed a rural credits measure which eventually will
enable tenant farmers to own their land without encumbrance.
The Democratic rr.easu.c was passed almost unanimously in
both branches, the Republicans 'being obliged to give it their
approval.
Agricultural Cooperation with States.
Another of the important planks in the Democratic plat
form was one advocating agricultural co-operation with the
States. Such co-operation, with a new and modern marketing
system, Federal aid in road building and other aids to the farm
er, is now a reality.
Justice to labor and the conservation of the rights of labor
were promised in the platform of 1912 and Samuel Gompers,
President of the American Fedeiation of L?bor, has said that
irore was dore for the laboriry- people under the leadership
of President Wilson and under the Democratic party than u:
der anv previous administration.
Conservation of the natural resources of the rountrv wrs
promised and there has been progressive conservation, accom
panied by sane development. No administration has ever had
a more efficient operation of the Interior Departmnt.
The spirit of the platform as well as its letters have been
upheld. The Democratic party has gone even further. Giving
the answer to his own characteristic statement, with his well
known agility. Colonel Roosevelt in the same letter to the Pro
gressive National Convention, says :
The Progressive movement has been given incalculable
impetus by what the Progressive party has done. Our
strongest party antagonists have accepted and enacted into
law, or embodied in their party platforms, VERY MANY
OP HTTP TlYsT IMPORTANT FKKNUi'L.US. iUUCn nas
The minutes of the last meet
ing were read, approved and
ordered filed.
The regular monthly reports
were read and ordered filed.
Th bill of the Missouri Gas and
Electric Service Co., for $306.04
was allowed and ordered paid.
WON'T SWALLOW HUGHES.
California Independents Line up
For Wilson.
Isidor Jacobs, of San Fran
cisco, a philanthropist, says Cali
fornia will be for President Wil
son. Mr. Jacobs sent the follow
ing telegram to Washington:
"With a reactionary platform
adopted by the Republican con
vention, the great independent
vote will be for President Wil-
A motion was made and carried son. The campaign will be one
II
I STORE YOUR GRAIN
IN A
to repair culvert on Thirteenth of platform and principles. The
street.
The Traders Bank offered 2V2
fc interest on the daily balance
and was made the city deposit
ary.
A motion was made and carried
that the clerk and collector be
instructed to collect all delin
ouent license according to the
ordinances, and that the mavor te Travis and Alice Buford,
inprt ihe nntirP in n nanor in died at his home in St. Louis,
independent vote generally can
be lined up for the re-election
of the man who stands for Peace,
Prosperity and Principle. Cali
fornia will be certain for Wilson."
Death of Wm. B. Buford.
William B. Buford, son of the
Monday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
His death was due to blood pois
oning. Mr. Buford was born and rear
med in this city and was 48 years
and 6 months old. He is survi
ved by his wife, who. was former
ly Miss Juliet Wilmot, and two
sons. Travis of Butte, Montana,
and Clarence of St. Louis.
The body was brought to Lex
ington Wednesday and taken
to the home of his uncle, Forest
L. Shelby, from which place the
funeral was held in the after-
30 o'clock.
ithat effect.
' A motion was made and carried
to place a watering trough at the
intersection of Twentieth and
Oneida Streets.
The city attorney, mayor and
collector were instructed to call
lupon the Lafayette Telephone
Company and demand that it
turn over a statement of the re
ceipts of said company.
j The city engineer was in
structed to prepare plans and
'specifications for a sewer on
cioom oireei. 'noon at 2:
A motion was made and. car-j '
ried to notify property owners j Shull-Fanolio.
on both sides of Main street from Mr. Victor B. Shull and Miss
Eighth street to Highland av- Bessie Fanolio went to Indepen
enue that new side walks must 1 dence Wednesday and were mar
be put down within the nextried at 11:15 o'clock at the
fifteen days., First Baptist Church. They were
i A motion was made and car- accompanied by Miss Ruth, a sis
ried that the grade on Franklin ter of the bride,
avenue from Ninth street to j The bride, who is a daughter
Highland avenue be estab- 0f Mrs. Catherine Fanolio, was
lished and property owners noti- born and raised in this city. She
fied to put down side walks. j3 a most charming young lady
Council adjourned to meet in and numbers her friends by
adjourned session, Tuesday, those who know her.
July 18.
i Mr. Shull is a son of the late
Godfrey Shull. He i3 a success
ful young farmer and a man of
sterling character,
i Mr. and Mrs. Shull returned
Merchants 24 ; May view 3.
The Lexington Merchants de
feated the Mayview base ball
been accomplished 'in awakening the public to a better un- team Sunday afternoon by the Wednesday evening and went to
derstanding of the problems of social and industrial welfare, score of 24 to 3. The features their home on Mr. Shull's farm
Real Reforms in People's Interest.
No party in the history of the nation has ever written upon
the statute books a greater body of progressive ana conxruci
METAL GRAIN BIN
Rain and Rat Proof
We are prepared to quote
you attractive prices on
several different makes.
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY
JOHN J.PRICE, Manager.
"The Yard that Saves and Satisfies."
ive laws. uioor nas given ns approval iu me mwa wtuicn j
the Democratic party to conserve the interests of labor. No
greater advance has ever been made in the interest of the farm
er since the Republic was founded, and the farmers themselves,
more prosperous and more enlightened than ever before, have
given their endorsement to what has been done in their behalf.
Real reforms have been accomplished in the interest of
all the people. There has never been a time when the re
serves of the national banks of the country, representing the
prosperity of the people, have been larger.
What has been done by President Wilson for the greater
liberty, freedom and prosperity of the American people con
stitutes the finest record of any American statesman.
In times like these, when the whole world has been rer.t
by war, when the United States itself has been imperiled, Presi
dent Wilson, compelled as he has been to give the major part
of his attention to the critical problems involving the rwice
and honor of the nation, might well have been excused if he
had not been able to complete his record of internal reforms.
IUi he has been as successful in his domestic accomplishmnts
as he has been in his handling of foreign affairs and in uphold
ing the honor and dignity of the nation.
No Domestic Policies Challenged
So complete has been the President's success in handling
domestic prob'rns that no domestic issue has been raised
against him. In the absence of domestic issues, his opponents
have tried to find an issue in the still delicate situation involving
the peace and honor of the nation which the President, with
a statesmanship in harmony with the best traditions of the
United States, has been upholding.
Forcing the respect of the world and compelling the recog
nition of American rights, twice compelled to raise me nmiieu
fist, the President has left no doubt that America, more power
ful but with the same spirit that prevailed in '76, stands ready
to defend with lives and treasure its new-found freedom and
its old-time honor.
The President and the Democratic party enter the present
campaign, challenging comparison of its promises and perform
ances with the promises and performances of the Republican
partv in the days when it was the dominant party.
It challenges comparison of the military, naval, industrial,
economic and spiritual preparations of the past three years
with the weak structures that were left to President Wilson
as a heritage from his immediate predecessors. It challenges
comparison of its deeds with the vague promises of those who
have fumbled it their efforts to find an issue.
of the game was the hitting of ; six miles south of Lexington.
the Merchants and "Spot"!
Mavel's steal of third in the! Miss Catherine Ashurst went
second inning. i to Odessa Saturday for a visit.
lion. Sara C. Major
of Howard County, Democratic candidate for Congress in the
Seventh District of Missouri, will speak in Lafayette County at:
Cordcr, Tuesday, July 18th at 10 o'clock A. M.
Higginsville, Tuesday, July 18th at 2 o'clock P. M.
Odessa. Tuesday, July 18th at 7:30 o'clock P. M.
Rfites City, Wednesday, July 19th, 10 o'clock A. M.
Wellington, Wednesday, July 19th, 2 o'clock P. M.
Lexington, Wednesday, July 19th, 8 o'clock P. M.
Dover, Thursday, July 20th, at 10 o'clock A. M.
Wavcrly, Thursday, July 20th at 2 o'clock P. M.
He has a message of importance to every voter of this dis
trict and a special effort should be made to hear him.
