Ut jhfortftftft Kjeimblfora.
DEVOTED TO THE INTERESTS OF ALL THE PEOPLE OF OHIO COUNTY
Subscription $1 per Year
Fine Job Work.
VOL. XXIX.
HARTFORD, OHIO COUNTY, KY., FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916.
No,l
H CO. FARES WELL
AT FORT THOMAS
WELL PLEASED WITH QUAIlTKItS
OK REGULAR ARMY NOT
MUCH WORK.
BOYS GETTING RESTLESS
Impatlontly Await Order tii Move
to llonlcr Vaccinated and
Ht-atfy for Muster.
(Speclnl Correspondent.)
g Ft. Tliomns, Ky.,July 5. Tho boys
fet Company II, at Fort Thomas nre
In what wo call a mental mess. Hero
wo arc all primed and ready for a
crap; just spoiling for want of ac
tion and are nevertheless compelled
to hope war can bo averted. Wo nre
ZSI very anxious to know Just what
and Just when.
When the train pulled out from
Heaver Dam on Wednesday night all
the boys were In high spirits and tho
conversation consisted chiefly of de
lighted expressions of appreciation
of tho courtesies shown us by the
people whom we, were leaving.
Upon reaching Leltchflcld wo found
that the citizens thero were very en
thusiastic. Tho platform was crowd
ed In DDlto of the lateness of the
hour. After picking up Company I,
tho long run to Ft. Thomas was be
fore us and every ond settled down
In un effort to get as much sleep as
possible.
Wo arrived at Newport at 9:00
a. in., and Immediately boarded
street cars for a 30 mlnuto run to Ft.
Thomas. After entering the reser
vation we were given quarters In the
barracks building which Is the home
of tho 8econd batalllon Companies
E. F. G and II. from Madlsonvllle,
Kussellvlllo, Burlington and Hart
ford. Most of us had never seen a
government barracks and were pleas
antly shocked to And neat Iron beds,
electric lights, complete water sys
tem, reading room and a pool table.
Wo were tho guests of ithu signal
corps at lunch and were told of tho
horrible typhoid vaccination which
was before us tho first thing after
wo were thru eating. Wo, however,
decided that most of the talk was
"punk" and faced tho ordeal with clr
cumspoctlon. Not a man In Compa
ny H squealed or trembled during
tho short operation and wo nil
thought It was a Joke. Wo were
Surprised later to learn that a large
per cent of the First Regiment fel
lows fainted after undergoing the In
oculation. Of course, all left arms
were soro for a few days, but that
didn't matter.
P The following day was spent by
getting everything cleaned up
uround quarters and establishing a
routine system of duties. No orders
ns o drilling or exercising have been
given and wo are left mostly to our
own devises for entertainment nud
Instruction.
The regulations In regard to leav
ing camp are very strict. Only sis
men from each company aro allowed
to leavo each day and these six must
have passes signed by tliolr Captain
and Major.
The cities, Clnclnnntl, Nowport
and Covington can bo visited by tak
ing cars nt the ontranco to it ho Fort.
Cincinnati being 46 minutes dlstanco,
many of tho soldiers have taken ad
vantage of this opportunity to visit
tho Zoological Garden.
Tho dally routine includes very
little actual work and wo aro havlug
quite nn easy time. Were tt not for
the Buspenso and uncertainty tho
whole thing would bo a frolic.
Tho muster roll of Co. II, for mus
ter lto Federal servlco Is ready and
tho physical examination will prob
ably bo completed In a few days. Wo
will then bo roady for tho call to tho
border or any place- wo are wanted.
Tho writer, In behalf of tho com
pany wishes to heartily endorso tho
card of thankB which Lieut. Shown
had In tho last Issue of Tho Repub
lican. Company H will certainly
make every ofTort to prove worthy
representatives of itho people who
seem bo eager to wish us well.
Tho following Is the oath which
iftearly all of the men have signed:
"I do hereby acknowledge to have
voluntarily enlisted this -day of
1916, as a soldier In the
National Guard of the United States
nd of tho State of-Kentucky, tor the
period of three years In servlco and
thrco years In tho reserve, under the
conditions prescribed by law, unless
sooner discharged by proper authori
ty. And I do solemnly swear that I
will bear true faith and allegiance to
tho United States of America and to
tho State of Kentucky, and that I
will servo them honestly and faith
fully against all their enemies whom
soever and that I will obey tho or
ders of. the President of tho United
States and of the Governor of Ken
tucky, and of the officers appointed
over mo according to law and tho
rules and articles of war. This oath
In subscribed to with tho understand
ing that credit will be given In tho
execution of this contract for tho per
iod for which I have already served
under my current enlistment In the
Organized Mllltta of tho State of
Kentucky,"
Chick With Knur I-ors.
Princeton, Ky., July 3. A freak
of nature In the shape of a four-legged
chicken has boon hatched In a
brood of chickens owned by Oscar
Varborough, of Webster county. Re
cently a similar freak occurred In a
brood belonging to Mrs. John Glass,
of Crittenden county. Evening Post.
Murrlcd at Rockport.
No Owensboro couples registered
at the Spencer county Ind., matri
monial counter during the paBt week.
The only easy money from Kentucky
offered the Hoosler esquires was a
single couple from Hancock county,
Mort Jackson, a laborer, aged twenty-nine,
and Miss Arvllla Darby, aged
twenty-six, from Hartford. Owens
boro Messenger.
.
REPUBLICAN NOMINEE
OUTLINES ITINERARY
HUGHES WILL SWING FROM
COAST TO COAST IN 7,600
MILE TRIP.
Brldgeharopton, N. V., July 2.
Charles E. Hughes probably will open
his active presidential campaign the
second week in August with a 7,000
mile trip to the Pacific Coast and re
turn. The nomlneo Is considering an Itin
erary that will provide for a dozen
set speeches to be made at Chicago,
St. Louis. Kansas City, St. Paul or
Minneapolis, Seattle, Portland, Ore.;
San Francisco, possibly Los Augeles,
and several othor cities In the terri
tory traversed. The program under
consideration provides for a break of
two weeks to be spent somewhere in
the Rocky Mountains. This would
afford Mr. Hughes an opportunity to
enjoy his favorite pastlmo of moun
tain climbing.
Altogether the trip would last from
five to six weeks. It would be made
by regular trains and would bring tho
nominee back to the East ready for
what ho expects to bo "a whirlwind'
campaign" the latter part of Septem
ber. While tho plan has not been ma
tured, It Is Mr. Hughes' preseut In
tention to go to tho coast by the
northern route and probably return
by tho southern. Tho nomlneo will
discuss tho proposed trip next Wed
nesday In New York with Chairman
William R. Wlllcox, of tho National
Committee, who now Is working on
campaign plans. Not more than a
dozen speeches will be made unless
present plans aro altered, and none
will be from tho rear platform of his
train.
Tho trip will bo a leisurely one,
and, It Is the nominee's prosent In
tention to confer with tho State and
other party loaders In tho various
cities.
Whatever Mr. Hughes Intends to
say on tho trip he expects to plan
In advance. All the chief Issues of
tho day will be discussed. A second
trip probably will be made to Don
ver and Salt Lake City, which are not
Included In tho tentative Itinerary
of tho first.
Because of the difficulty of assem
bling the notification committee July
15, Mr. Hughes Is considering having
tho notification the latter part of this
month.
Mr. Hughes spent today quietly.
With his wife and daughter, Helen,
he went to communion services at the
Methodist Episcopal Church hero.
This attornooQ he went for a motor
ride to Sag Harbor, where he looked
In .at the, fishermen carnival last
night,
CARRANZA REPLY
REACHES WILSON
WAR MADE LESS IMMINENT III'
TONES OK NEW MEXI
CAN NOTE.
WANT TROOPS TO LEAVE
He Knrto Government Promises .to
Protect llonlcr If U. 8. Will
Recall Sol'dlerH.
Washington, July 5. The reply of
tho de facto government of Mexico
to tho domands of the United States,
conciliatory in terms, and giving as
surances of a desire to reach a
friendly adjustment of the difficul
ties between tho two countries, was
delivered to tho Stato Department
today by a Mexican embassy attache.
The text of the note, as transmit
ted by Ellseo Arrendondo, the
Mexican ambassador designate, fol
lows: "Washington, D. C, July 4, 191C.
Mr. 'Secretary: I have tho honor
to transmit In connection tho text of
a note I have just received from my
government with instructions to pre
sent it to Your Excellency:
" 'Mr. Secretary: Referring to
the notes of June 20 and 25 last, I
have tho honor to say to Your Ex
cellency that the Immediate releaso
of the Carrtzal prisoners was a fur
ther proof of the sincerity of the de
sires of this government to reach a
pacific and satisfactory arrangement
of present difficulties. This govern
ment is anxious to solve the present
conflict, and It would be unjust If Us
attitude were misinterpreted.
" 'It was also the Mexican govern
ment that earnestly .suggested a plan
for cantonirieuts along tho-boimdnry
lino during the conferences of Cul
dad Juaroz and El Paso.
" 'This government Is disposed
now, as It has always been, to seek
an Immediate solution of the two
points which constitute tho truo caus
es of tho conflict between the two
countries, to-wlt:
" 'The American government be
lieves reasonably that the Insecuri
ty of Its frontier Is a source of diffi
culty and the Mexican government,
on Its part, believes that the stay of
American troops on Mexican territo
ry, aside from being a trespass on
tho sovereignty of Mexico, Is tho
Immediate cause of the conflicts.
Therefore the withdrawal of Ameri
can troops, on ono hand and the pro
tection of the frontier, on the other,
aro tho two essential problems, the
solution of which must bo the di
recting object of the efforts of both
governments. v
Quick Practical Way.
" 'The Mexican government Is will
ing to consider In a quick and prac
tical way, and prompted by a spirit
of concord, the remedies which
should bo applied to tho present sit
uation. " 'Several Latin-American coun
tries have offered tholr friendly me
diation to tho Mexican government,
and the latter has accepted It In
principle. Thoroforo, tho Mexican
government only awaits Information
that the government of tho United
States would bo disposed to accept
this mediation for tho purposo men
tioned above or whether It is still of
tho belief that tho Bame results may
be attained by means of direct nego
tiations between both governments.
" 'In tho meantime this govern
ment proposes to employ all efforts
that may bo at Its disposal to avoid
tho reoccurrenco of now incidents
which may complicate and nggravato
tho situation. At the same tlmo It
hopes that tho American government
on Its part may make uso of all ef
forts to prevont also now acts of Its
military and civil authorities of tho
frontier that might cause new com
plications. '
" 'I avail myself of this opportuni
ty to reiterate to Your Excellency
the assurance of my most distin
guished consideration.
" 'C. AGUILAR.'
4
ROW OVER 15 CENTO
HAS TRAGIC ENDINQ
Samplo, Ky., July 2. An argu
ment over an alleged debt of fifteen
cents terminated tragically here last
night when George Dulchke, 'IS, shot
and probably fatally wounded, It la
charged, Frank Blair, 40. The weap
on used, was a pistol, and tho bullet
pierced Blair's neck. He Is not ex
pected to live.
The shooting took placo at a bar
becue given by a fraternal organiza
tion. Dutchkc is said to have been
trying to collect the sum of fifteen
cents, which he said Blair owed
him.
Blair has a wife and child. Dutchkc
was arrested after the shooting, and
is in jail at Hardlnsburg.
ILLINOIS GOV. REPRIEVES
NEGRO KOR SIXTH TIME
Springfield, 111., July 2. Elston
Scott, negro, who murdered his sis-ter-In-law,
and who has been re
prieved Ave times by Gov. Dunne be
cause Sheriff White of Jackson
county, would not Inform the Gov-
crnor how many persons he Intend-
ed to Invite to witness the oxecution day morning for the annual Institute
at Murphysboro, has been granted 'and the 191C session was opened
his sixth reprieve, which will last un-' with devotional exercises by the Rev.
til October 13. I B. W. Napier. The welcome address
Scott's fifth reprieve was until Undelivered by James H. Williams was
and last Tuesday the governor wrote ' responded to by A. H. Ross. Instruc
to Sheriff White requesting him to In-1 tor R. S. Eubanks, of Lexington,
form him regarding his plans for the then delivered the opening address
execution, as the governor was deter-J which was very much enjoyed.
mined there should not be a repeti
tion of the scenes attending upon
the hanging of Joe Deberry, another
negro, at Murphysboro last summer,
when the occasion was made a holi
day and 2, boo persons witnessed the
execution.
Sheriff White's answer, received
today, was.to the" effect that he had ' ing buch and go about the Institute
already answered the governor in hi3 ' work In a business like manner,
previous letters, saying that he Mr. Vernon McFee, graduate of the
would invite a legal number. The ( Cincinnati Conservatory of Music, is
Governor thereupon granted the jn charge of the staging which has
sixth reprieve until October 13. Thebeen unusually good.
law does not specify .the number that
can be invited to an execution.
JUST1 HUNGRY,,. THAT'S ALL!
Pennsylvanla Guardsmen Who Miss-
ed Train ntOK'town, Explain.
That' they were merely hungry and
nVIssed their train while ministering
to the tuner man is the statement
made by three troopers of tho Penn
sylvania State Guard who became
Separated from their company at
Ellzabethtown, Ky a few days ago.
The troopers tako exception to a pub-
'T 7""""; "V"c" 7"'"6 ",D
regiment, expla.njng their absence
by saying: "We left the train to get
something to ea and while away the
train pulled -out and lett us We
wired ahead to Lebanon Junction at.
....- ,..
lfl..l .,.. n 4t.nl. I,n..ln thn
UUltJ LU 111 11 1 Ut UUI OU'Vl IUI Ul(l. U
as to tho cause of our failure to bo
present for roll-call." All of tho
young men said they were quite ea
ger for any eventualities along tho
border and "wouldn't miss the first
fight for tho world." Loulsvlllo
Herald.
4ft
OPINION RENDERED ON
NATIONAL GUARD LAW
Boston, July 5. Interpretation of mond, Fount Crowe, Byron Kelley,
some of tho uncertain provisions of Carson Miles, Henry Warner, Ruth
the new law affecting the National Foreman, Elizabeth Daniel, O. L.
Guard was contained In a telegram Shultz, Lilllo Isler, Arthur Park, E.
from MaJ. Gen. Albert L. Mills re-js. Howard, Vernon Crowder, Fred
celved to-day by Adjt. Gen. Charles Whlttlnghlll, Marlon Stone, El-ton
II, colo. I Huff, Mayme Mldklff, Catherine Pen-
"All officers and men of the or- dleton, Otis Stevens, Leila Glenn,
ganlzod militia called forth, lrre- Hattlo Woller, Gorln Flener, Ellza
spectlve of whether they take tho beth Moore, Eula Woosley, Emma
now oath, must under the law pre- Wright. M. T. Gentry, L. G. Barrett,
sent themselves for muster," the lone Hedrick, Ronda Wade, Alice
messago states.addlng that "tho Gov- Taylor, Henry Leach, J. W. Myers,
ernor my not discharge them." I O. N. Stewart, Lena Adams, Cecil
"Enlisted men of tho National
Guard under IS years old, not hav- Frank, Earl Smith, Bessie Allen.Cor
Ing parents' consent, aro not to bo dlo Neal.F. L. Sanderfur.Wlnnle Wll
mustered Into service, and after re- son, Ernest Wilson, Norlne Coleman,
Jectlou Bhould bo discharged by tho J. T. Ford, Wems Park, Ray Son
Governor," tho message said. "Or-, ders, Mr3. Cleo Freymlre, Nora Kls
ganlzed militiamen called forth may singer, May Rogers, Maud StewarP,
bo mustered Into servlco as organlz- j Bessie Wright, Claude Park, Ray
c. mitmn witimnt tnkinir tho new Stownrt. Henry Barnes, Claude
Fedoral oath.
"Governors may not accopt reslg-
..n.ton of nnninor who had been call-
cd forth until after ho has pro3ont-. Br'aden, Winona Stevens, Pearl M.
ed himself for muster and has been , Brown, Geneva Brown, Irene Tay
passed upon by a mustering officer, lor, Rhoda Williams, Mrs. W. B.
Vacauclos among officers of organlz- j Brown, Mrs. Lula Fulkeraon, Eunice
cd mllltla or National Guard called ' Shultz, Mrs. John Wlthrow.Ida Mat
forth may bo filled by Governors un- thows, Paul Russol, Eva Thomasson,
dor Stato laws, subject to quallflca-j Dona Hennlngs, A. O. Ross, O. A
... n tn fiihiro nTmninniinn ns nre-! Hunter. J. C. Lawrence, E. E. Bal-
,,Ul U9 , . u, ..-- .. --.
scribed by national defeuso act.
Marriage Idceiihe Since Last Report.
Ernest Tdagan, Olaton, to Mollle
May Bratcher, Narrows.
S. H. Hoover, Roslno, to Verna
Wright, Hartford R. 2.
Ona Rogers, Narrows,, to, Katie
Morgan, -Narrows. , ,.
Clayton II. Duncan, Drakeaboro,
to Mildred Cral Rocaeeter.
INSTITUTE WILL
CLOSE AT NOON
ANNUAL SESSION OK OHIO CO.
TEACHERS WILL BE AD
JOURNED TO-DAY.
LARGE NUMBER PRESENT
I
.- r. ,. . ,.......
. ............. ...... ......... ....... ........
Despite Excessive Heat Meet
In School Building.
Ohio County teachers gathered In
the Hartford College building Mon
Although the weather has been
extremely warm during the session
much work has been done and the
teachers have been benefited by the
course of Instruction. Much favora
ble comment has been heard on the
work of Prof. Eubanks. About 150
are enrolled. They are a good look-
Mr. C. K. Carson is acting as
reiary oi me insuiuie, amy assisted i
by Mr. J. T. Hoagland.
Some sort of entertainment has
been given each night at the Col-
iege building for the teachers. The
entertainment given by the Ladles'
I Social Club of Hartford Wednesday
evening was highly enjoyed and was
attended by a large crowd.
Members of the Institute were
treated to cream, cake, punch and
cigars yesterday afternoon by citi
zens of Hartford. C. O. Hunter had
charge of serving the refreshments.
Among the visitors to the Institute
from out of the county were: Prof,
Qf 0f Jame3
Qu D M Coates
Frankf R u McFarland, super.
,ntendent of scnoo,3 of Dayiesg coun.
. ... T ,.,,.
ty, Owensboro: Miss Larue Vanhon,
Iowa; and Business Manager Pep
perkorn of Farm and Fireside, Lou
lsvlllo. Tho enrollment of the Institute fol
lows: Pearl Bartlett, Irene Ward, Jose
phine Helm, Dudley Westerfield,
Mrs. I. S. Mason, Artie May,
Cora Thomasson, D. D. Moseley,
Marllssa Foster, Lettle Bell, J. T.
j Hoagland, Essie Taylor, Zoda Ray-
White, Anthony Daniel, Mrs. Getry
Shultz, A. H. Ross, Shelby Shultz,
Martha Elliott, Imogeue Plummer,
Roy Foreman. Aaron T, Ross. Orpha
.
lard, Annie Carter, C. K. Carson,
W. S. Hill, Ethel Raines, Pearl Rains,
Asa Cbancollor, J. D. Thompson,
Clova Shultz, Emma Weller, Maymo
Shown, J. W. Odell, B. H. Morris,
II, E. Brown, Carrlo Russel, Ethel
Ilussel, Vera Miller, Margaret Card
well, S. P., McKlnney, Andrey Grow
barger. E. F. Liles, Ethel Robinson,
Nellie Johnson, Anna Robinson,
Lola Cole, Key Napier, Mrs. J. M.jgun companies.
McForran.Mrs. Myrtle Armendt.Marjr
Sue Johnsoa, Irene Duff, C. E.' Al
len, Rosa Brown, Ethel Muffett,-
vWlll Orlfflth, Martlne Taylor, O. B.
Fuqua, O. D. Carson, Bethel Shra
der, Argent Barnes, John Hamilton,.
H. C. Crowder, L. L. Embry, J. W,
Kirk, Lois Barnes, Russell Cooper,
.
MEXICAN WOMEN FORM
"BRIGADES OK AMAZONS'
Mexico City, July 4. Offers bare
reached th0 army ""quarters from
sovcral sections proposing the for-
matlon of "Brigades of Amazons,"
it being said that women to the num-
, nm .-. u. .-.,- ...,.... .
uci u& uiiuj uiuusuiiuB ueairu w
serve in the event of war, and ask
that they be trained in the manipu
lation of the rifle. Two thousand of
these women are reported to have
offered their services In the State of
Sonora, and others In tho West Coast
and Southern States have followed
tholr example. A call was sent oui
today by the Federal Board of
Health for a meeting of medical men
for the purpose of forming a corps
to serve In the event of a foreign
war. Volunteers under 50 years qt
age are called for.
Supplementing this call Is one for
women who are to receive emergen
cy training for field service's as nurs
es, and the further preparation Is
made of establishing some medical
factories to offset the danger of hav
ing supplies usually furnished front
the outside cut off.
FOUR DROWN WHEN
YACHT TURNS OVER
sec-'EDITOR,Sj)AUGIITEB ANDTHBEfi
VOTHER TROMINENT YOUNG
" TEOPLE VICTIMS.
. i T
Frankfort, Ky., July 4. Four per
sons, two young men and two young
women, all prominent socially in the
Bluegrass section, were drowned
shortly before midnight four miles'
east of here in tho Kentucky river.
The dead are:
Miss Frances Champ, daughter of
Swift Champ, editor of the Bourbon
News, Paris, Ky.
Miss Ann Embry, daughter of Mra.
Annie Embry, Paris, Ky.
Carroll Dale, an employe of Kauf
man Clothing Company, of Lexing
ton. Eugene Buchlgnanl, a musician,
Lexington, Ky.
The victims were members of a
party that motored from Lexington
to attend a barge danco on the riv
er. Arriving after the barge h.ad
started upstream the party engaged
Robert Holllngsworth to take them
out to tho barge in his yacht. -v.
Yacht Drawn Under, r-
Pujllng alongside the barge, The
Helen M., tho suction proved too
much for tho frail craft bearing the
pleasure party and tho yacht was
capsized. All of the occupants were
thrown into the stream. Bradley
Ralley, Sammle Reeves, Caldwell
Chlnn and Miss Ann Mulloy, other
members of tho Lexington party,
managed to swim out to grasp hold
of the side of tho barge and were res
cued. Dale and Buchlgnanl, It Is said,
might have saved themselves but
tried to rescue tho young women and
lost their lives In tho attempt.
All of the victims were quite
young, ranging In age from 17 to 21
years.
o-
EQUIPMENT ORDERED
KOR KENTUCKIANS
Ft. Thomas, July 5. Twelve ma
chluo guns and twelve motor trucks
have been ordered as equipment for
the Kentucky brigade, according to
a wire from tho Department of tho
East, received at Ft. Thomas lues
day. Tho First Roglmont 1b the
only unit of the brigade which has
organized a machine gun company
and news of the artlllory shipment
moans two additional guu companies
will bo organized at once, one In tho
Second Regiment and one In the
Third. According to the old regula
tions, Capt. Logan Rock, Quarter
master Captain of the brigade, will
bocome Captain of the Socond's ma
chine gun company, and Capt. Ar
thur Chapman, Commissary Captain
of the Third's gun compauy. Capt.
Sidney Smith is Captain of the Flrst'o
machine gun company, so three Lou
Uvllle men will be commanding offi
cers of the brigado's three machine
