J ) ?aH
u
-1 Advertise RnM" g. -l .1
Ttre i much advertising valuo In ylil I - -JfilHlliJiPlfcfey' AnVPDTIQP "1
JErbu The merchant who has (( M I yv50c51AW:HKPWiK5y A. A. A. A. AUVfcKll&t, H
H I-.it iIUh horseshoe In the yard IK III I -51n lTvlb. .THk&fT Rv. fe y9n B 'W livery More has some one who If I .TijH
J"! t his More, or to go visiting 1V V 1 II 11 -Z-FatMS. 3fc3ftv ill III ill ill more or lew. Interested In pushing the , '-H
"T-j the neighborhood In buslnemr Vv' V I III lr"5r,yJPlf3BLKSmlJCT v;J Z?-3tH II II l bulne-. Kvery huslnemt Is worthy JH
!!. mav make quite, a reputation xJS? .5sS iWkilUs'ASBiGSt TJ3jP P$ZmLSirJ II ill III II gretitcr or lew extent of being , lH
I .nwm hut. when It tomea to a ' T !Ll-L-li'rt7 maJPty 'CK V VSbV' enlarged. If the right person get-tho ; biH
.iir ff business ability, he wilt . .. 9 & T T hiiln In hnml ami pushes In the ' lijH
fZtlhU be unable to deliver the POLITICALLY RFPIIRI IPAN right wa) he run make of that mill- 'ijH
231 The moral Is-AlA'KHTISB. Entered a. ,..,.., n, ' wul ' "-'HUUl, ntrUDLIOMIN. new n very decided enlargement and ' H
mUMElNITMMfir JUne ,"S' "' lh I,of,,ce M ,,rlc,' ,'h- lnd'r "e Ac M"h ' ?inugr"r h""M,f " " m"rkeJ "d fl
" ' .iNU.MHKRf, EVERY pR,-DAY JULYTIsIO '
SflENDIQ CROWD;
eOYflL GOOD TIME
iRVTIT I'OCIITII IN HlKTOIlY
HI' THIS .MAN'S TOWN.
HinJrnl ami I'urtlelli Aniilti'i-mir) of
'ul "") Cclelirnlcil Hy Cltliiii
Lorsllr In Manner Perilling the ().
clon Crtivul Prom l'nr anil Near
fjrnd Piwihv In the 1'cMlvltlci.
Priu grtuteLturtli of July i ele
ction v,i the obVrvnne on Tucs
ir liit ! the hundred and fortieth
iiiivirrarv of th signing of the
. Urill'H of NJliifeprndcncc, assisted
the pi "l'l here were ly btrgi dele
ftton trout the nearby settlement
,tJ iump' especially Hunn)ldc and
t..' lntc Price' guest cami b)
.11 train, by automobile and
.tVtl It the largest and
KMt n,iriotlc. rr well mm the bnt U
nl imi midline of people perllHpK
. rr ming together In Carbon
unti And. w far im The Hun ba
n'nT1' to leurn, thero wan nut mi
" hlftit or nil unpleamiut Ineldent to
mir the pleamire of any resident or
tttot lit the city.
Promilv at miurlpo. uh per au-
unertn nt of the ofrlelal program.
b mIiiIi of thirteen guiiK wax flrnl.
lurdlv a home or biulneM Iioum but
j il thr Htara and Htrlpeit. U A.
ylre -il' mamhal of the day, while
Mim Hrn U-- euaeled the role of
Jt!i of Liberty. At ft: 30 o'clock
h ikmiIi vai formed nt the corner
Mun and I'lftli ftreotii, the home
lM-r W llomlev. AftcruardK
ty I. irk wax risiclicd near 10
iK-k
'Hie I'rognitii In Oetall.
Stlntlon l'rlce Concert Hand,
loUKntlou Itcv. Oncur Hmllh.
M, Hall Columbia" Mbm Uira
iumim ullli band accompaniment.
The Clump Act Congreiw. thirteen
itw n prmented, Oclolier T, I77S.
rilrKk llenryu Hpeech m )elle
Vfhltmnre
lU-enH(tuient of Itrtttli' of I'XlllK
Da. April 111, IT'S.
S'nxlng, "Ainerliu" 4'ongregittlon
il by Hemour l'roin. with IhiiuI ae
wnpanlment.
IltadinK of the Deularatlou of In-
ptnilence '-John I'olter.
Slinlng of the Declaration of In
fcptndttu'F Ruennde by .Martial Hand.
Original Patriotic Heading MImi
-Mtlle I'ltigrrnld.
Oration of the la Hon. William
If King of Halt l-nkn City.
Singing. "Htar Himnglcd Ikinner"
AHrmldy led b Hemour I'rown with
mJ nt -ontpanlment.
)ln)nr lion-Icy Apprcclnlltc.
Jliynr lliirnley denlren through The
n tu ilmnk the urloun commltteex
'or thrlr work and the Interent din
1 Jjul by nil In making tlilw celolira
lon the moid NUcceMful, beyond a
(vntlun of doubt, Trice turn ever had.
Th flimu were numeroUH and well
l tastefully denlgneil. The. parado
I J by lfc A. McOee, mamhal of
'hi U, followed by'MiDor Hornley,
"n. William II. King and Albert
!r)ner In the mayor'ii automobile,
s'th Trlie'a yplendld band marching
'teen, and thee went followed by
a automobile t'ontalnlng the member
t the ( Hy council. Then came "Undo
m, the (InddcMi of I.lbvrt), the
IJ I'rodn, utuli and Htaten and the
Hrll of 1778, t automobile and In
wo order named, followed by numer-
u auioinoblUH and other tmey-
f'rlim were given the bent decora
''J aut imnblleii. Tim tine containing
Jlluej Mabel Hoffmann. Cornell
tttrnmiii ami Jewdo llalllliger unil
Jlarnice and (leorgu Htevennotl took
"fit priK of t,., dollar. K. Ileriutrdl
M..irded vvcond prUe of flo bd-
and Jame Wmle. third, IS.60.
nlxe for Float Daughter of
';' 110 nu, necond, lied Cro.
"HO third, Hah and Htate. l&.oo;
uttli hlgner of Declarallon of In
"I il-n :.S0, Hplrlt of 1776.
'I ho hMirtH of tho la.
Th u,) leading club of the Carbon
"jnt HuiHibnll league, CumIIo Hutu
'M BuiitDnlde, met before more than
! wioUMiid enthulatl( Ixmeball fan.
"unniMii,, ,eted Camlo (late by a
rfe of x to five. It wiib great ball
""i tnrt to finish. Hunnyl'le'
'"l uii Kerten and Nelmm.
""Hie un.l Johnon did the work
'gr Cat!e (Jate. And, "believe me, It
uwine ball game."
iiundreil Yard Dash Hill I.yon.
,r,J lnn l'nuutt, econd.
"'" Hi nut Itncc lloderlo McMII
'"J. firm: IMwIn Chatlln, second,
Half .mii,. Walk I'almer, flmt!
"nun, hicond.
Illryiie KneeTheodore Thomii.
lr?J Arthur Hrown, ecoud.
,?" .,"rilc Hace J. Hex Miller
7, i" N"' "IbbonH entered. Olbbon
rul down, The pume of eight dol--
ttx equally dhlded.
ire Itaiit Kdward. find; Cap-
! nei'iiiid,
Tim My , Ktculug.
v Hall would hardly hold the
t!r. !' owtf. The "gate receipt"
'ttj u f8i B0( net
"un William II King' oration wa
ff ffiTT. HE CANT L0SE
"S&Esffl &ZZZ&B femiH SJ!li V ff
a cIhmHi lie will Ik- ' ueleonie to our
ell)" all) lime he iIim.hu to u.ine
hik.
Very er man cumpllment were
beonl of the original ' PHlrlnlli Head
ing" of .Mliw iMbelle I'ltigernld. the
aetfiniplliihnl daughter of Mr. and
Mr. Thoma I'ltigerald. Ml I'lU
grmld I a recent graduate of Ht.
Mary Academy at Halt l.uke City,
and I to tench In the Carbon county
M'hool thl coming enr.
The crimd that came to Price went
homi Mitlrflcd with the clean enter
tainment offrrcd them. The will
come Niek when Intlted.
Iiek of railroad accommodation
kept many from lilaek Hawk. Molir
land and the two lllitwnthn at home.
Heliwr eontrltaitrd llliernlly. by nu
tnmoblle and learn car, to the larg
el irowd l'rlce eer had on the
I'.mrlh.
Hunuyidile worked lat Hundny that
the miner and other emplo)e might
have 'the day off at l'rlce."
HonwU wa "waltln" at the church"
when the big parade went bj.
The Hattle or Lexington" (repro
duetloii). wa extremel) well done nt
the ground at City Park.
An old Orand Army man nuked,
during the day "Whrre'd Mm bent
thl drum and fife corp?"
Prlie and her guel mlwed the
Clle (late band, However. It I
hoxd thai the flhlng wa good,
ROY AllREDKIUED
Cru.liiil II) liiitli and IUkU l'i Wil
low I'nvl. .Mondii).
Hoy Allretl, aged aliout ! er
and an unmarried man. wa lam Mon
day killed by n cavcln near omnf the
oamiHi of the Phenlx Conntruellon
iiinKiny on Willow Creek above Ca
II (late. Ill InhI) wa found by a
.rhlng irty which went out to
look for him when he failed to come
In for dinner after the main hour had
gone by. He wa alone at the time
he met death and Jut how It hap.
owied will prolmbly never lie known.
A large rock, however. In the pit
where he wa at work I thought to
have rollwl down the mountain Mde
and canned the wall glaive him to
fall Into tlm hol where he wa at
work. Youiw Allred w digging an
nmhnr hole for n tower on '';l'
tenlou line the I'lah Power and I. ght
comiNtii) I iontructlng fnun Hpr ng
vX to Kell. He had that mr leu
tar piece of work all but comp cted
when th.- fatal aivldent incurred.
IKkmwI had practically grown to
manhood In Price, but for wine time
KSl rM in the P.ntah Itarii. mn.
in The body wan recovered b ree
cuer from under what I estimated
o have l-eci around lx to ivn ton
f llrl and rik He. of wuw, wo
nfone Mlhe lime of the accident. He
la II e bole nearly completed wlnm
he env.ln occurred. The Iwdy wa
Mdl bruled and numerou bone
w,,r" broken. Decead ealW Hlue
be I hi home. The liody w a brought
lo Price after being recovered.
l!,Mm word from relative who re
Id, on the former Uintah rcM-r a
on the liody n taut Wedm-day
i. ' from Price 1" "I""'1'". "''
funerifrrvlce; It.-exited. ... be
held next Hunda)-.
I.louor .hlpment from the whole
lo o at tlreen Hlvcr have ral.ed
S- Zl ngnf lary there about
h, fu,rdollar iwr month. I-
we?k f, m feVn U.oun.l . of
loiaKrelgnt .hlpment er made be-
aide expre.
GUTTLE ADVANCE;
SHE EPJROP OFF
liltASs IK ;OH AND OWMMIS
Nl'.i: WHKUITS INCHI-SI'
fM'llriv, lluvo Hm Advantage Willi tin
.Market l4trgel) Ten (Viitx Higher
Ih'iuniul IVr riehy IVcilcr At
Aniuuil Nino Dollar Predict 1 let
ter I'liiurc l'nr Miei'p anil Uinib..
Hun Hpeulal Service.
KANHAH CITY, Mo Jul) 3. A
cattle upply of eighty-five hundred
today nnil it run nt other lending mar
ket below expectations gave ellera
the ndvnnlage and ale were largely
ten cent higher, although the mar
ket wax rather mIow and bu)er ill
liked lo give the ndvaucc Killer
hviii determined lo get their drove
cheaper If they can, claiming beef
market are In IkiiI hape, but owner
lire In a podtlnn to hold their cattle
and will do n utile the price I
more attractive, n gra I good and
cuttle are putting on weight fat. A
drove of Kunna wintered cattle
weighing 1347 pound old at $8.90
here today, whoe owner wild they
were gaining at the rate of nearly
four pound a day when hn hlpped
them. With plenty of grim, cattle
men are In an Independent ponltlun
and will not take prcnent price until
their cattle have uuiulreil more
weight. Other drove of Kanmi win
tered nicer weighing iiround 1SU0
IHiund wild at Ik. 76 to 19.10. flood
Mlwourl corn and gran teer wild at
110.00 to flO.IIO. Kecclpt today In
tituled thirteen cur of pulp fed Colo
rado, at 110.00 to 110.10, eighteen
ear of California gran teer weigh
ing 1110 pound at in.00, nlxteeu cur
of hay and grain fed ArUona ntier
weighing 1-00 piiiimlH at IS. SO, and
Mventy our of quarantine cuttle,
moNtl) Oklahoma grit ulcer, at
lii.fin to 17 50. ome fairly good
North Tcxa leer at 18. 31 to IC7D.
lliitrher cattle wild vteudy. Mtockera
and feeder n hade lower today at
17.36 to ttt.OO, although there I a
market for fliwhy feeder here now
up to 19.00.
Hheep and lamb have ben elllng
lower, but the market I ten to fifteen
cent higher today. Heelpt four
thoimaud head. Native prlug lamb
old at $10.60, and nix cur of Arl
mina prlng lambK, weighing lxty
one to vlxty-ecven pound. Hold at
$10.10 and (10.16. Choice Idaho
lamb would bring on today" market
$10.36 to $10.60. (lood clipped eive
bring IC.60 to 17.00, wether $6.76 to
$7.36, feeding lamb up to $8.(0.
PHODUCTION OP HITUMINOVH
co.Mi has inchi;ki:d vasti.v
WAHHINOTO.V, D. C. July 3.
i Hltumlnou coal production In the
United State during tlm flrt half or
'the prevent year wa the greatoat over
reached In any half-year period, the
I geologloal vurvey announced tonight.
KtlmaU by the vurvey put the lx
month' output ut 361,000,000 ton, n
36 per cent Increase over the first
half of 1916 and a 6 per cent increanu
over the luut six month of last yeir.
The amount mined In the six
month' tcrlod exceed by vevernl mil
lion ton the record production or the
flrnl half of IV 13, lncrcaed con
sumption by railroad mid the Iron,
strel and other Industrie I given a
one cause or the IncrcitM-d output.
HxiHirt In the period given were
about 10 per cent greater than In the
corresponding period of the cnr he-On-c.
Movement of coal through the Hoo
canal show an Increase of 60 ier cent
and coal used In coking hn lncreited
about 611 per cent.
An Viewed In (iotliam.
NKW YOIIIC, July 1. War prep
aratlon have stimulated wool to audi
an extent that certain grade, notably
those suitable for blanket and other
army good, have sold better In the
Huston market and at better price
than for n long time. There has been
considerable speculation, both dealer
and manufacturer buying scoured
and pulled wool In anticipation of
further advance. In the West buy
lug prices have been pushed up an
other notch, and the highest price of
the season have been recorded during
the week. Tcxa hn been practically
cleaned up during the week, llostnn
hu)r securing about five million
pound of wool nt what lire consider
ed high prices. American buyer are
barred out of Australia and New Zea
land, and offering from other source
of upply are not attractive. Manu
facturer are hoping for targe govern
ment contract, and are looking for
cheap lot, foreign and domestic
scoured wools have moved In it liberal
way, and leading mill are slocking
up with low and course wool.
Advance I Pnnucil.
William I In I ley or Nephl and Har
den llennloii or Vernal, president unit
soTftary, respectively, or the statu
board or equalization, recently were
In Montlcclln to meet with the com
missioner or Han Junii county In re
gard to the assessed valuation or prop
erty In that county.
The state of filial Intimated that
they would ask the (Irund county
In hi rd to reconvene, for the purpose of
Im reusing the valuation on live slock.
They have In their poMelou figures
tending to prove that stockmen of
that county have many more cattle
and shiep than are listed on the tax
roll.
If the commissioner should refuse
to make a further Increase In assess
ment, It Is within the power of I he
1 state board to make a blanket In
crease on nil properly In the count).
(Continued on page eight.)
APPHHSON JIAIIi: Pltl'-SIDCNT
AMHUICAN MININC (.tlltlS
A. II. Apperson, vile president anil
general manager or the United Htate
. Kuel company, ha been elected pre.
; blent or the Utirti chapter or the
American Mining congress, to suc
ceed It. C. Grmmell, relgned. Cleorgo
II. Dern wa chosen at tlui same time
by the board ot director a second
vice governor to succeed Apperson.
The other officer of tlio chapter lire
' Wulter Pitch, rirst vice governor; J.
William Knight, third vice governor;
U II. McCornlck, treusurer, and A. O.
McKentle, secretary.
The diifrctdr present nt the meet
ing weru It. C. aemmell, J. William
Knight, (I. W, UtmbouTiie, A. 11. Ap
pertain. C. H, Allen, Thpmne Kearn.
J. O. Dick, John M. Hn)u, Wulter
Pitch. George If, Dern. V. J. West
cott. i:, 8. llolupp, It. J. Hvans and M.
P. nruffct.
WAR CLOUDS NOW I
ARE PASSING OVER I
Washington Tells Carranza It Welcomes His H
Proposal to Adjust Pending Differ- , ' JH
enccs Diplomatically. ' H
ORDER AND FINANCIAL AID ON THE HORIZON '
WASHINGTON, D. C, July (5. Tlio tie facto Kovornmont of H
Mexico was informally notified tonight tliroiiKh Eliaco Arreilondo, . H
ambaH.iiulor doslKiiate, that the United States welcomed General H
CYrranza'ri proKsal to adjust all puntlliiK dlfforoncca between the 1 iH
two KovurnmentH hy direct diploinntlc neKotlatioiiH. f '
Arreilondo was informed of the American Koverntnent'it nt- H
titude in a conversation today with Secretary Iansintr after the 'H
latter hatl conferred with President Wilson. Later a format note H
will confirm the ambassador's report. Lansing virtually had com H
pleted a draft of the communication tonight, but it may be read to . H
the cabinet tomorrow before it in delivered. H
Imtnedintely after the cabinet meeting Secretary Iansing H
plans to leave for a month's vacation. Counsellor Polk will ad- H
minister the affairs of the slate department in his absence and H
meet Arreilondo in the formal discussions at which a solution of 'H
the Mexican problems will be sought. j '
CAHUANZA NOW AMKNAHLK. M
It was evident at the statu department today that officials be- ' ' M
lieve an opportunity now has been presented out of which may M
come a means of giving the dc facto government material aid in ' .H
restoring order throughout Mexico. It is known that the pacific M
nature of the Mexican note which brought the crisis between the i ' jJ
governments to an end is construed here as indicating that Gen- I H
end Carrania, besides being impressed by American military it !H
preparations, has been deeply influenced by the pressure and ar- j iH
gument brought to bear on him by friends in the United States, I, , ;-'
by European diplomats in Mexico City, and particularly by reprc- I ' ";H
sunUitivcH of many of the Ijttin American powers. The latter i jH
have exerted themselves to the utmost to avert war and to foster ' ,', H
in General Carranzn's mind the idea of pan-American duty !'A F
While the immediate purpose of the negotiations in which J. .' M
Secretary r-nnslng's note is to be the first step will be the evolu- 1 1- M
tion,of some plan for traiumilizlng the border regions, the discus- j iH
slons may take on a wider scope. There is little doubt that Arre- .
(londo rece(ved the impression from Secretary Lansing today that Mt'l
if adequate guarantees as to the security of American and other '
foreign interests in Mexico could be secured, the Washington gov-
trnment believes it possible that the financial aid so greatly need- jr'l
ed by the do facto government could be found. Details of the fr
form and extent of the guarantees required, and of the amount i
and nature of the financial aid that American bankers might be lll
willing to furnish can only be worked out by protracted discussion. i . I H
Some time ago, it is understood, a suggestion that the Wash- 11
ington government would encourage American bankers to go to " !H
the rescue of the do facto government wan made through indirect . IH
channels. At that time General Carranza had not felt the pinch J fH
of poverty which now threatens his government with collapse. Uo !(H
rejected the suggestion, as ho believed he could restore financial j i!
stability without foreign aid. He Is known to hold radical views ' TH
on the question of foreign concessions and is understood to have ''I'H
been actuated by a desire to leave himself freo of any obligation ll
in this regard. i 1
CAN'T 1)0 IT ALONG. ' 'H
Events clearly have proved the failure of the first chief's , 'JH
hopes to re-establish orderly government unaided, officials hero ' 'H
believe, and with the war abroad shutting off every other source
of assistance, he is thought now to have reached the point where . '
he will make proper guarantees in order to secure American capi- ifjl
tal. Counsellor Polk held a conference late today with Henry T. . i H
Fletcher, designated lo be ambasMulor to Mexico, and Paul M. i ,iij
Warburg of the federal reserve board. The object of the meeting j 'li
was not disclosed, but great significance was attached to it as in- 'ifll
(Heating that the Htate department had found it convenient just if
at this time to inquire as to the probable attitude of American m! Hfll
bankers, and as to the disposition of thu federal reserve board it- iT tll
self toward lending such nid as might be in its power to the Mexi- . .ll
can government. fll
No statement could be obtained as to the nature of the proj- r tfjll
cct that may be in contemplation. Warburg is a recognized uu- (IH
thority on all matters of American finance and his advice probably h tffl
will be sought even if the federal reserve board is in no way in- ;ji'il
vol veil. Secretary Lansing would not discuss the terms of tho ,ji gnH
note ho will forward to the de facto government approving the J ttfH
suggestion for direct diplomatic negotiations to find a solution of W flH
the difficulties in which the governments have become involved. wi IjHH
It is believed, however, that it will lay great stress upon tlio OL iWM
friendly purposes of the United States and intimate that any plan 1 H
of action that may be suggested, which will insuro the security of ffl IRH
the American border will find ready acceptance in Washington. Km lH
Mobilization of tho national guard continued to go forward on ili&fliHi
bchcdule today, according to war department reports, and the i HyH
htate soldiers are certain to get valuable experience upon the f H i
border before they are released from the federal service. Just fvliSI
how long it will be necessary to maintain all ur part of thu force f fiHtfJil
to aid the regulars in patrol duty cannot now bo predicted with NEaHH
accuracy. fSfll
