- .. $
f ,
18
GREATEST GATHERING OF PEOPLE IN HISTORY
OF FLAGSTAFF ATTEND ELKS BIG CELEBRATION
City Was Taxed to Utmost to Care for the Great Gathering Variously Estim
. ated at From 6,000 to 8,000 People. Nearly 100 Autos From Williams.
, A Special Train From Winslow. It Was, a Jolly, Good Natured Gathering,
' Prize Auto Won by L. S. Williams of Williams. Prize Diamond Ring Went
to Miss Lucile Ellmore.
The
and
and
bo"r
e
There was no discount on the Elks
celebration of the big two days July
3rd and 4th. It came up i o advertised
.strength and then some.
As early as last Saturday flags
were flunir to the breeze by enterpris
ing business men and big flags floated such as had carried a gun during the car exhibiting a small shote ii a caije,
been used in the revolution,
other guns packed by Al Doyle
John Sullivan were some guns
weighed over seventeen pounds each.
The rules under which one was en
titled to join this squad were only
gaged in gnawing milk out of a
tie just what the idea was is
known, but it made a hit just
same.
There were more decorated cars in
tervening, then came H. D. White's
early days to protect themselves from
the Indians on who had lived in the
country forty years or more. Doyle
came to the country in 1872, John Sul
livan has icon wandering around
these old hills since away back in
18C9; John Clark came to the country
in 1875.
The gaily decorated car of Sheriff
Dickinson carried the executive com
mittee With Hon. T. G. Norris, of
Prescott, who delivered the oration at
the court house at the conclusion of
the parade.
The car following contained Gov
ernor Hunt and party; following this
came a string or Elk cars and then
the consolidated bands.
The Normal school was represented
in the parade by over 200 people, in
cluding both students and faculty
members. Their section of the parade
was headed by an Uncle Sam dressed
in typical costume, carrying a "United
States flag, and flanked by two color
guards. Following Uncle Sam came
a float drawn by 49 students repre
senting the 48 states and the District
of Columbia. Arizona led the proces
sion of students.
The Normal school float was deco
rated entirely in the national colors.
On this, seated on her throne, was the
across the corners oi me uw
There were decorations everywhere
and people were pouring in from all
directions by Sunday.
Monday morning the street paving
gangs had cleared the streets they
were working on, paved and unpaved
and turned them over to the monster
parade, the biggest, best and longest
that ever trailed through the streets
of Flagstaff.
There was no need of the band to
bring out the multitude early Monday
morning, the streets were filled and
when the big consolidated bands of
Williams and Flagstaff commenced to
make music, moving room was at a
premium.
The parade was scheduled to cont
inence at promptly 10:15 and just at
that hour it formed at the Emerson
school and started on its way down
Aspen avenue to San Francisco street
and halted at the Elks building where
the famous ensign of the good frig
ate, Constitution, was presented to
Flagstaff Lodge No. 499 by Mr. Frank
P. Comfort on behalf of H. L. Hunt
and Thorner in a neat speach and ac
cepted by Mr. M. A. Murphy for the
Elks. He in turn made an impressive
speech and turned the historic flag
over to the State of Arizona through
it's representative, Governor Hunt.
At the conclusion of Mr. Murphy's
address, the band played "The Star
Spangled Banner" as the multitude
uncovered. Governor Hunt with the . dess of Liberty, as represented by the , in the place of the
with the inscription "We play for real
hogs," advertising his billiard parbrs.
A beautifully decorated car contain
ing the "Chautauqua Boostevs" fol
lowed, advertising the coming of the hefore the sun fell
big Chautauqua entertainufents to fourth
Fred Hesser sold it by the stack and
the populace slammed it down on the
old time crap tables; let 'er go double
on the faro game and .didn't forget to
play the columns and colors against
the double "0" at the old resurccted
roulette wheel. It was some strange
how many old timers seemed to re
member how those old games were
conducted and how to pay out and
take in the money--it was just an
other day out of the old past that
brought back all the old thrills again
for the time being, and it was fully
worth the while to see the old timers
flock around and play 'em high.
The south side of the avenue was a
whole town in itself, with a country
store doing a land office business; the
street was half given over to a big
dance platform where Prof. George
Bams of Williams, held forth with his
orchestra inducing the people young
and old to ('shake a hoof" and there
were few intervals when they were
not busy up until along about 1
o'clock.
The day really wound un by beinir
attached closely to the following day,
with all hands willing to commence
nil over again and knowing the ropes,
expecting to have a heap more fun
the hill on the
MM LIVES BY HEROIC ACT
The one accident of the day was a
most thrilling one and one that chilled
the vast crowd for the moment with
horror. i
During the twenty-five mile auto
and the cloud of dust that followed it,
felt sure that a number of people had
been killed and injured, as the last
they could' see was the car headed
straight into the crowd. It took some
race when "Peaches" Hock was mak- J time to convince the people that no
ing record time with an almost ccr- i one was actually hurt and when they
tainty of wining the race, W. N. were advised of what had happened a
Staley, an old man over 70 years old whole souled collection amounting to
started across the track as "Peaches" ' as much or more than the prize
started to round the curve at the east j money was poured out by the people
end of the track near the grandstand, in recognition of the brave act of
Hock saw him when only a few feet young Hock.
away, he swerved his machine, which There was no time for reckoning, it
was going close on ,to 60 miles an was up to him to act in a flash in
ho'jr, and as he did so Staley turned protecting the helpless women and
back. There was a big jam of people, children packed in a few feet ahead
horses and autos at this point and the of him, and without regard as to what
auto would have left the track and would happen him, he took the chance
crashed into them had not "Peaches" , without the slightest hesitation. And
turned his car in a flash to the left, ( "Peaches" is the hero of every per
taking his chances with death in the son on the grounds,
wreckage, rather than jeapordize the In speaking of tha accident Mr.
liycs of dozens within a few feet of Staley said: "Thq boy never hesitat
him. As it was his car turned over cd, he threw,his car over, taking
twice with him and he made a mirac- chances on his own life in trvino- in
ubus escape with but a few scratches save mine. It was one chance in tpn
commence here on July 20th
A hundred or more cowjmncliers
fell in line behind as a rear guard.
Afternoon Events
The entertainment at the race track
opened up at one o'clock with music
by the Flagstaff band. By one-thirty
the grounds were well filled, conserv
ative estimates placed the attendance
at 2500.
The firs event was a one and one
half mile relay race for cow ponies.
Ross Heckethorn and Jimmie O'Brien
being the only contestants in the
event. Heckethom was awarded first
prizo and O'Brien second. In the first
lap in the race O'Brien's horse fell,
severely bruising him, but he was up
and in the race again and finished for
second money. The prizes were
nnd $15.
TUESDAY, JULY FOURTH
Just about the time the people had
aroused themselves again for the
coming festivities of the second day,
a special train of three coaches und a
baggage car arrived from Winslow
with the Winslow band and a bunch"!
of wide awake boosters from the me
tropolis on the east The band con
sisted of all-star members and they
were greeted with, cheers from the
Flagstaff contingent who had been
'advised of the time the train would
arrive here. It was a splendid show
ing from our most neighborly neigh
bors, and one that was fully apreciat
ed by the Elk bunch here. Winslow
will have a "Follies' week conducted
by the Winslow Elks and if their
on his face.
He lost the race, but saved the
life of Staley and took another brave
chance with his own life to protect
the, crowd which had little-chance of
escaping had the car been headed
toward them a few seconds longer.
As it was several had narrow escapes
in getting out of the way as lie made
the flying turn.
Those who saw part of the accident
thousand that he escaped. I was sit
ting in the grand stand and it was so
hot I began to feel sick and got out
to.go home. I am subject to prostrat
ing attacks and did not want to'faint
on the grounds. I watched the cars
go by and thought they were in a
bunch and started to cross the track
when someone yelled 'walch out.' The
car was so close I could not get out
of the way."
$40 inendly spirit is not reciprocated, we
mistake the temperament of the local
The relay race for Indians was an Kng. Their celebration will be on
extra evenj: put on to make up for the A'lVust 7th friends,spaste the date
in your hat.
While things Were commencing and
ARIZONA POL GROWERS ASSOCIATION
HOLD ENTHUSIASTIC ANNUAL MEETING
the funds of the association. The
assessment to be made in two equal
historic flag in his hand, gave a brief
history of the old flag and what had
been accomplished under it during the
early heroic days, when men's hearts
' were attuned to country and to do or
die. The old flag will be placed on
exhibition at the state house.
From this vantage point the Gov
ernor and party viewed the parade,
before he was compelled to catch his
train for the south, where he had two
appointments for the following day in
different toyns for addresses.
The parade continued on north and
again passed the point where the
judges of the parade passed on the
relative merits of the numerous beau
tiful floats competing for the prizes.
L. F. Verkamp was marshal of the'
parade and was followed by a large
band of gaily decorated Indians, in
wagons and on horse-back, led by
Chief Hookum Skookum Jimmy Swin
nerton; there were Indians galore,
ponies. Altogether there must have
been at least 300 Indians in from the
reservation to attend the celebration,
though only part of them were in the
parade.
Behind the Indians came a complete
rodeo of cowpunchers in full regalia,
on prancing steeds who did fancy
steps in accompaniment to the band;
they were real and in earnest in fit
tingly celebrating the natal day of the
country.
The most picturesque bunch of the
parade were the old prospectors. They
were real too, though they put on
some of their old time clothes just to
represent times when they had come
in off a tour of the mountains. This
party consisted of Al Doyle, John
Clark and John Sullivan, all of whom
have served an apprenticeship in this
part of the country for the past forty
years or more. Each one of them
packed an old pioneer rifle and pros
pector's equipment that would make
the present day man think he was a
work animal. Al Doyle led the old
time burro packed with a camp outfit
that looked as natural as any of the
old time pictures. The combined ages
of this old bunch run up close to 250
years, but they swallowed the dust
and hoofed it along without complaint
just as they had done in years long
gone.
The gun carried in the march by
John Clark had been made over from
an old flintlock that was manufac
tured away back east in 1799 and had
Goddess of Liberty surrounded by best relay races that has ever been
chidren of all different nationalities given nnd was ran from the word go,
represented in the schools of Flag- all horses finishing in a bunch,
staff, typifying the fact that the God-1 A quarter mile free for all was run
burlesque race,
Mrs. McDan-
Claude Black's
disappointment in the cow horse re
lay, Bojadine Betah won first and
Tohonny Bcga got second. Both are . ending at the Driving Park in the
Navajo Indians. This was one of the forenoon, the band with the executive
committee went out on the west road
toward Williams and met a motorcade
in-, with about ten entries.
government and different public
stitutions of the United States, looks iels won first and
after the welfare of all the national!-. horse won second,
ties whfch come to her shores. I Almost record breaking time was
Following the float came the re-; made in the five mile Indian foot race,
mainder of the body of students in
marching order four abreast, each
carrying a United States flag.
More autos intervened and then the
Woman's club auto float, all in a dain
ty yellow color, combined with brown
and green, the club colors, created a
sensation as it came into view. The
little flower girls were busily engaged
in throwing out pine cones tagged
"Woman's Club," which were picked
up as souvenirs by the crowds lining
the streets.
Hfl.. ... 1... .jbm?k !. Al ..!61 n
t JIUUII VMUWO. CUIIllllg III UIBl Willi u
I mark of 27 minutes and 20 seconds.
j Edward finished a few minutes be
hind. Both Indians are Hopis and
come from Tuba.
The one mile Indian pony race was
o. good event, Saga Nitso, a Navajo,
winning first on the famous gray
horse that has raced in Flagstaff sev
eral times before. Billy Humetewa
took second money after riding a good
race. Billy belongs to the Hopi tribe.
lEtsetty George, Martie Bezaha, all
of some forty automobiles from Wil
liams and escorted them through the
main part of the city, giving them a
hearty welcome to the joyous, jubilant
jubilee. 'i
I The athletic SDorts at thn raw
track grounds the morning of the!
Fourth drew a good crowd. The fol
lowing events were staged:
The Arizona Wool Growers held
the best meeting since their organi
zation in the court house -Wednesday i payments, the first beinir now due
with a big attendance of sheepmen j All committees and members were
from Flagstaff, Winslow, HolbrooV, urged to communicate with the Ari
Williams, Canyon Diablo, Bellemont, zona representatives in Congress ask
Ash Fork, Seligman, Grand Canyon, ing for a driveway one-half to one
and southern points. In all there were mile wide for sheep in the open range
over 50 sheepmen present. adjacent to forest reserve in country
District Forester Reddington, of locally known as Lonesome Valley
Albuquerque, who recently succeeded and Aqua Fria in the unreserved sec
Ringland, in his address to the asso- ( tion between the Prescott and Verde
elation stated that it is his intention . reserve. This land is being taken up
to follow out the policy of Mr. Ring- and unless a driveway is allotted the
land in cooperating in every way with sheepmen will be unable to reach the
the sheepmen grazing on the national grazing to the south of this territory,
forests. He was well pleased withj The meeting gladly approved the'
the large attendance and said it was , letter from the Corporation Commis-
The Pine Cone is an emblem of the Navajos, were also contestants in the
club.
The Babbitt auto float was a hand
some creation, decked with a solid
covering of white and pink flowers,
filled with little girls dressed all in
white.
The float decorated by the members
of the Rebekah lodge was well worth
of mention and was a thing of beauty.
Thje Rebekah float was followed by
the Independent Order of Odd Fellows
float, then the new city auto fire truck
gaily decorated, with two cute little
kid firemen decked out in full regalia.
The Arizona Lumber & Timber Co.,
did themselves proud with a monster
representation of a giant stump neat
one mile race.
I The Ford relay race came off as per
schedule, with three entries, and fur
nishd a good lot of entertainment. It
was a five mile race with the drivers
! changing cars on every half mile. A
rope was laid across the track and the
driver had to stop his car on the rope
dvery time he changed cars. "Peach
es" Hock was awarded first prize,
having made a more satisfactory stop
on the last lap, Ralph Ellinger, second
and Dave Lay third.
I Three teams, all from the F. L. M.
camps, competed for the log sawing
prize. Hans Wiborg and ndy Peter
son took first money, Andy Hansen
100 yard dash for boys 12 to 14
years old Walter Fleck, first; Ernest
Yost, second; Don Thompson, third.
50 yard dash for boys 9 to 12 years
old Don Thompson, first, $1.00; Bert
Hoffman, second, 75c; Ernest Proch
now, third, 50c.
I indicative oi me interest me
jbers were manifesting in the
50 yard dash for girls 9 to 12 years
01(1 KOfiah Hollintrshp.ncl. Iirsf $1 00. I Alhllminrnun nffixn Tha mnntinn .oo
t a u, ...HH, r vw, I --"""I"!.' w...... A..V, ...t,,vfl WM?
Mary McGookin, second, 76c; Cecilia called to order at 8:30 Wednesday
Prochnow, third 50c. (morning, recessed from 12:30 to 1:30
In the three legged race 5 teams J and adjourned at 4:30.
entered, Ernest Yost and Ernest,, The , mntUp nf hnnAKnt, ctmva ,..
Prochnow winning first, $2.00; Edgar Satisfactorily settled, it being left to
Brandt and Paul Jacobs, second $1.00. W executive committee to appoint
iuu yam dash, free for all L. H. PmPn fnr Ante nf , .wrim mf.
mem- sion announcing the withdrawal by
rela- the Santa Fe the tariff nronosinc nn
tions oi me iorest omcers to me advance in the rate of wool in car
Bheepmen. load lots from 4th class to 2nd class.
Other forest officials present were: I That the association is at all times
Mr. Kerr, grazing inspector; Super- a''yc and active was evidenced by the '
visor Guthrie, of the Coconino forest; report that the assessment on sheep
Supervisor Greene, of the Tusayan was not raised by the State Tax Corn
forest; Supervisor Hinderer, of the mission as was almost universally ex-
Prescott forestf and Mr. Weir of the pected last year.
H.
Yaegcr, first $10.00 in merchandise;
W. Hamblin, second $5.00 in merchan
dise. The prizes were- paid in
chandise as the boys did not want to
get into the professional class by ac
cepting cash.
There wcije 27 pntries in the 50
yard backward running race for boys.
Don Thompson, first $1.00; Ernest
Prochnow, second 75; Glenn Hol
lingshead, third 50c.
.The 220 yard dash was won by W.
H. E. Campbell proposed that an
effort be made to have the next an
nual meeting of the National Wool
Growers Association held at Phoenix.
M. I. Powers and L. F. Verkamp
were elected delegates to attend the
meeting of the national association to
be held in Salt Lake City, Utah, in
August
i
ly barked over, which in the distance, and Hans Westrum second, and Erick
Sparr and Ole Martin third. The time
made was 35, 44 and 55 seconds re
spectively. ' The log measured 274
inches in diameter.
The broncho busting, the last event
on the program,1 resulted as follows:
BHJ Day, first, Henry Isabell, second.
G. Platten rind Jack Houden were the
other riders.(
Evening Amusements
In the evening the general trend of
the public was to the old '49 camp on
Railroad avenue, and the whole block
was one mass of people all bent on
having a gpod time. By 8 o'clock
things were going at full tilt w"ith
confetti, barkers and jolly1-joy crowds
weaving backwards and forwards in
the different departments to see what
was doing.
"Old" General J. D. Jackson came
first with hjs emporium of hot-hots
&hd cold-freezes handing out goods
and language as fast sis conversation
and cash could be exchanged.
Elks' money was prevalent every-
resembled a giant section of a tree;
garnished about this big log section
was a prize collection of little ones
seated in the pine boughs draped
around the exhibit.
A B. P. O. E. auto float with the
famous clock with hands pointing at
the hour of eleven, draped with the
lodge colors chimed the plaintive
hours, came next.
Then came more autos and beaut
ful girls, the prize automobile to be
given to the lucky person Tuesday
night; the Northern Arizona Leader
car decorated with newspaper and
flags; a Knights of Pythias float with
a mommoth shield of the order deco
rated with flags.
The Flagstaff Mercantile Co. float
in the form of a beautiful boat, filled
with pretty little girls throwing out
confections to tne crowd, was worth
of special mention.
A burro hitched to a cart filled with
hay next broke into view; the driver's
main job was in walloping the burro
along, while the kid was busily en-.
r
rals to pull sheep belonging to mem
bers of the association. They are to ' A resolution protesting acainst the
rner" I receive 50 cents per head for sheep , issuing of grazing permits to those
and lb cents per head for lambs. t who ao not nom enough land or con
The association endorsed the action trol enough water to make it practic
taken by the executive committee and able, was adopted bytheassociation.
advisory boards in their resolution The idea being to prevent speculation
regarding the congested condition of by parties who do not intend . to be
the Mud Tank trail during the drive come bona fide stockmen,
south and the return north. The re-' Officers were elected for the coming
solution pointed out that the number, year as follows: H. J. Gray, presi-
nt nhifn rmasltic trifa trail hna in. dent: L. F. Vwlramn uv nnrl Inoe
Hamblin, $5.00 in merchandise; L. H. creased two fold in the past two years . E. A. Sawyer, vice-"president The
Yaeger, second $2.50 in merchandise. I m that nbont 120.000 aWn iiRid tbi same executive cnmmitw wc.iti
trail in 1915. They advised setting a , as last year, the same advisory boards
limit on the number of sheep using , were also elected for the Coconino
this trail to 80,000 head and extend- and Prescott forests. Lou Charlebois
ing the privilege to those having replaced A. J. Charlebois, and War
prior rights through usage or senior- j ren Perkins replaced F. W. Perkins
ity rights in the sense of being bid on the Tusayan advisory board.
line permittees. J The meeting was enthusiastic and
wher! and ,it was good everywhere.
Two teams were entered in the half
mile relay race, Flagstaff vs. the Nor
mal team. Normal team won first
prize of $12.00 and Flagstaff received
$7.50. The-teams were made up as
follows: Normal Yaeger, White,
Austin, Hamblin; Flagstaff Decker
Williams, M. Mills, John Yost, Gaston
Aubinoau.
The 440 yard race was won by Aus
tin, with White a close second. The
prizes were $7.00 and $3.00.
A consolation' race for boys under
12 was pulled off with the following
result: Cecil Disbrow, first $1.00;
Paul Rodriguez, second 75c; Don Kun-
selman, third 50c.
The 100 yard race for Indian boys
concluded the, morning's sports.
Big Afternoon Program
An Indian team -race opened thd
entertainment Tuesday afternoon. -
Three of the best Indian teams in
from the reservation were entered
and the race loving red men shot the
animals twice, around the track for
all they had in them. It was a close
(Continued on Page Four) "
A committee was also appointed to
confer with the cattle men during
their meeting in regard to the use of
water in the tanks along the Mud
Tank trail.
The Bureau of Animal Industry re
ported that unless something was
done immediately a quarantine would
be imminent to prevent the spread of
disease, viz: scab. A motion was car
ried that the association take the
tnattcr up with the sanitary board
and collect an assessment of cent
per head from all members when the
sheep are dipped to assist the sani
tary board in" carrying on their work.
The assessment to be collected by the
inspector at the dipping tanks.
The meeting approved an l assess
ment of 1 cent per head on all sheep
both on and off the forest reserve for
harmonious throughout and the unan
imous opinion was that the associa
tion is growing larger and doing beU
ter each year. The spirit of the meet
ing was fittingly expressed when Mr.
Reddington said that benefits through
cooperation could not be over estimated.
MONDAY
July 10,8 p.m.
Flag6taff Hotel Co. meets ,
at offices of County Atty.
Wilson. Make an honest
endeavor to attend and help
boost FlagstafTs weJlfarc.'
