The Echo has a
reading circulation
or over 4.000 per
sona who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 27
COLVILLE REGISTRANTS
Will EXCEED 100,000
Every East Bound Train Loaded—All Are
Eager to File—About One Chance
in a Thousand
If the number of people who are
rushing to the different registration
points to file their application for land
may be taken as an indication the peo
ple of this country are land hungry.
But are they?
May not a good deal of this rush for
land be ascribed to the gambling in
stinct in the human family. On an
average it costs every man who goes
to one or the other of the five regis
tration points 85. If one hundred
thousand people make application for a
chance in the Colville land drawing,
and it is estimated it Jwill exceed that
number, a half million dollars will be
spent by the people of this country to
get not to exceed five hundred claims
that are worth the price put upon the
land. Perhaps not over one hundred
are worth enough more than the cost
to be considered a prize. So that in
round numbers one hundred thousand
people are putting up 85 each for one
chance in a thousand to make a profit
on their investment. It is a safe guess
that not more than one out of every
three who register really want land or
expect to look at the land awarded to
them unless their number falls within
the first one hundred. Yet some sixty
five thousand are eager to take the
long chance on their 85.
Every train that has passed thru here
from the west since 12 o'clock on the
night of July 4th had two or more
hundred aboard bound for Wenatchee
eager to take a chance at one of those
one hundred land prizes.
Spokane estimates that every notary
public in that town will receive in
registration fees, 8120. Messrs. L. J.
Nelson, N. A. Pearson and E. H. Fox,
notaries from Levenworth will share in
the notarial fees taken in at Wenatchee.
Not less than thirty, perhaps forty,
notaries will be employed in receiving
applications, and will be kept busy all
this week. After this week the ap
plications will not be so numerous.
Besides the cost of getting to the
registration point there is only the
registration fee of 25 cents.
Of those who apply for registration
about 25,000 may really and honestly
want land for the purpose of making a
home. If we have not placed the
figures too high the other 75,000 are
merely taking the gambler's chance to
get something for nothing.
SIATt INDUSTRIAL NEWS
The Seattle corporation counsel de
cides the city has a right to designate
streets on which jitneys may do busi
ness and prohibit them on streets sup
plied with carlines.
The Portland, Vancouver and North
ern railway is to be extended to the
barracks and 14 miles further, to
Camas, this fall.
Omak Fruit Growers' Association
will build a warehouse.
Trout Lake —A tourists hotel is to
be erected near Hell Roaring canyon.
Seattle —$160,000 Overland factory
building, $25,000 Garford truck build
ing, $35,000 fire station and $100,000
additioh to Washington Iron Works are
announced.
,"' Spokane —"The Germania tungsten
mine near Springdale has been sold to
a newly organized German company,
backed by the Krupps, and its former
president, Capt. William Yon Scheck,
lately in service with the German army
in Belgium.
Olympia —The State Federation of
Labor has made a report which shows
that 41 per cent of all laborers, skilled
and otherwise, in the state are unem
ployed.
P. Hanson, from Bellingham, uncle
of Mrs. J. D. Wheeler, spent several
days here this week and yesterday de
parted for hame.
Xlbe Xeavenwortb
Motoring Parties Left Sunday
for Seattle
Two car loads of Leavenworth people
left Sunday morning for Seattle, going
by way of the Blewett and Snoqualmie
pass route, the object being to get
there in time to see Seattle in holiday
attire. In one car were Mr. and Mrs.
R. B. Field and children and Mrs.
Field senior, mother of Mr. Field. In
Mr. Jacobsen's car were beside him
self, wife and children, Mr. L. F.
Bullis and his sister, Miss Clela Bullis.
Word was received that the party ac
complished the pass without trouble
and arrived in Seattle in due time.
GAORGE LEE TALKS
TO RAILROAD MEN
Urges Everybody to Register and Explains
Absentee Voting Law
Geo. A. Lee, former chairman of
the public service commission and re
publican candidate for governor, ad
dressed a meeting of the railway train
men at the Grand Theater last Sunday
evening. Mr. Lee emphasized the
importance^ of registering under the
provisions of the new quadrennial regis
tration law passed by the last legislature
and also explained the provisions of
the absentee voting bill enacted by
the same legislature. He pointed out
that the latter bill will enfranchise
many thousands of voters who hereto
fore have been denied the right to vote
because their occupations have com
pelled them to be away dorr homes
on election day.
Mr. Lee argued that popular govern
ment imposes duties and obligations
upon its citizens which they must
faithfully discharge if they wish to
maintain the spirit as well as the forms
of democracy. He pointed out the
dangers of minority control of elections
which, if permitted, leads to the ma
nipulation and control of government
by a selfish and designing few to the
detriment of the many, and that ulti
mately tne responsibility for whatever
evils develop in a popular government
such as ours must rest upon the people
who fail to take an intelligent interest
in their own affairs and faithfully dis
charge the duties of citizenship.
Mr. Lee also discussed legislation
of interest to trainmen and the prob
lems of their particular employment.
Buttermilk Delivered
Call up the Creamery phone 472,
and get fresh buttermilk every day
One gallon or more delivered anytvhere
in the city at IS cents per gallon.
24tf
Talbott West celebrated his twelfth
birthday July Fourth by entertaining a
number of his little friends. Those
present were Vesta Humphreys guest
of honor who was also twelve Tuesday,
Dorothy Humphreys, Mabel and Paul
ine Eresch, Florence and Myrtle Clem
ens, Inez Ewing, Dorothy and Mildred
Cline, Mary Guest, Eva Saver, Vere
Kennedy, Welcome Saver and Mahlon
Banks.
Mrs. Irene Gordon, well known here,
where she lived two years, was arrested
in Wenatchee on the fiist of this week
on the charge of keeping a disorderly
house. Mrs. Gordon has employed a
Seattle attorney and says she will resist
the charge.
The Ladies Aid of the Lutheran
church gave a social at the home of
Mrs. Chas. Dahlgren in honor of Mrs.
Stern wife of Rev. Stern, of Mansfield.
Mrs. Stern is making a weeks visit
here.
Mrs. Carrie Newman, sister of Mrs.
G, W. Hoxie and Mrs. S. E. Ritchie,
is here on a visit, Mr. Newman is in
the show house business in Seattle and
San Francisco.
J. H. Osborn will have charge of the
fire lookout station on top of Tumwater
mountain, west of town. He plaus to
have his wife and baby with him most
of the time.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, July 7, 1916
G. N. TRAFfIC CIOSEO
FOR THIRTY-SIX HOURS
Blast Causes Slide —While Removing
Obstruction Another Slide Follows
Killing Two Workmen
On Monday afternoon, near Embro,
two miles west of Tye, the track was
blocked by a slide. Henry & McPhee
who are erecting snow sheds set off a
heavy blast on one of the upper tracks
and large rocks rolled down on the
lower track covering it. Men were at
once set to work removing the obstruc
tion, while so employed a monster
slide followed in the track of the first,
and before the employes could get out
of the way some six or eight were
covered up. The slide was sixty feet
long and fourteen feet deep. A steam
derrick was set to work at each end of
the slide, but with the help of all the
men that could be employed were over
twenty-four hours in clearing the track.
All the west bound trains arriving here
between 2 a. m. and 4 p. ra. July 4th
were held up and did not get out until
after 12 midnight.
One of the men, John Johnson, fore
man, was taken out dead, and four or
five injured, one so severely that he
afterwards died.
People Are Determined to Have
Lower Tax Rates
Persons with bills to go before the
legislature or by initiative before the
people, involving large expenditures,
might as well save themselves trouble
as they will not be authorized.
Political crazes and their effect on
taxation are being thot over by the
people as never before and not many
more steps in that direction will be
taken on this coast in the near future.
The high cost of living and the high
cost of government are in a large part
due to the development of a trained
army of experts, or political pests,
called uplift boards, commissions or
whatnot.
The average per capita tax in Oregon
nearly as high today as in war-ridden
Germany and from 820 per capita to
860 per capita within a decade on pro
gressive lines.
In 20 years Oregon taxation increased
five hundred per cent and the per
capita in the three coast states is about
the same —all higher than New York.
The tax rate should come down 25
per cent.
Cheap capital, with high taxation,
will not employ high priced labor,
and establishment of new industries
will go on very slowly until the average
rate of taxation has been reduced con
siderable.
Cheap capital becomes dear capital
when taxes amount to two and a half
to three per cent. Low rates of interest
are impossible for industrial develop
ment or manufacturing enterprises.
It is only the interest-eating mort
gage that can live when the cost of
government is too high, and the high
cost of living can not be reduced with
taxation applied in too many forms.
Apple Crop in the Wenatchee
District
According to a story in the Wenat
chee World of July 3 the 1916 apple
yield in that particular section is now
placed at 7,300 cars, and the soft
fruit at 853 cars This estimate is
based on a report of Fruit Inspector
Clawson. So far the weather has been
favorable to the development of the
valley's most important crop, notwith
standing the spring has seemed unus
ually cool. The rains of the past
three weeks have helped much. The
old fashioned Winesap apple is said
to promise a large yield.
In this immediate section we are
told by apple growers the apple crop
will be heavy and the condition first
class. Worms are doing some damage
in the lower valley but in this vicinity
we are told the orchards are practically
free from this orchard pest.
Creamery Doubles Last Year's
Output
Manager Van Brocklin tells The
Echo that the June output of butter
made by the Leavenworth Cooperative
Creamery approached five thousand
pounds very nearly. In addition to
this the creamery is supplying all the
local dealers with ice cream, making
from 100 to 200 gallons per week,
dependent upon the weather. So far
the butter has been taken by the local
market. Just now the contracting
firm up the canyon is taking five to
six hundred pounds per week.
Leavenworth's Fourth Devoid of
Incident
Neither incident nor accident marked
the Fourth at this place. The na
tions birthday was observed in this
town without any demonstration. All
the business houses were closed and
those who remained here spent the
day, which was the most perfect en
joyed this year, in a sane and sensible
way. The national colors were in evi
dence everywhere. The small boy
had a good time exploding torpedos,
not the large, deafening kind, but a
small harmless variety which yet made
enough noise to appease the average
boy's desire for fireworks. The old
fashioned fire cracker, the cause of
many a destructive fire, was entirely
absent. A considerable number of
Leavenworth people, most of those
who own autos, motored to Wenatchee
lake, 24 miles distant, a most delight
ful place to put in a day, where the
Lake Wenatchee Inn and the Lake
View hotel made preparations to take
care of the usual large crowds that go
to that resort to spend a holiday.
Dancing, boating, bathing and other
sports furnished diversion for the crowd.
A dance in Firemen's hall, given by
the engineers' order, in the evening,
was well patronized by the young peo
ple of Leavenworth. One very marked
and noticeable difference, in compari
son with the celebration of holidays in
the past was the absence of boisterous
ness due to drinking. Some fifty-odd
spent the day at Wenatchee, where a
big celebration was held.
The Law-Making Industry Over
worked
Apart from its merits, the volume of
our legislation is astounding. Con
gress and the state legislatures include
some 7,000 members. Prof. Dicey,
the great British student of Parliamen
tary activity, has pointed out that con
gress and our states annually enact
more legislation than is proposed in the
same period by the combined parlia
ments of Great Britain, Germany, Aus
tria, Italy and France, representing
more than two and a half times our na
tional population. In ihe last session
but one preceding the outbreak of the
present war, the Brim-h parliament re
ceived 547 legislative proposals and
enacted 239. The sixty-third congress
considered 30,053 bills and joint reso
lutions and enacted 700. The present
congress since meeting in December
I has received more than 21,000 legisla
tive proposals. Between 1909 and
1916 our state and n uional assemblies
enacted 78,747 new statutes. Forty
three legislatures in session in 1914-15
! exceeded the record of any preceeding
I year by passing 16,222 bills, 1,066 of
| which were vetoed, 15,055 of which
became statutes to be printed for the
enlightenment of lawyer and layman
upon some 43,500 pages. During the
past seven years the people of the
United States have received an aver
age of 12,000 new statutes per annum,
i the fruit of probably not less than
three quarters of a mill.on legislative
proposals, dealing in no small part
I with production, distribution, finance,
in every circumstance of conduct, su
pervision, employment and organiza
tion.
Dr. and Mrs. A. G. McKeown, ac
companied by Miss Lillian Cruse, of
Bellingham, who is here on a visit,
drove to Wenatchee on the Fourth.
THE CORRECTION ASKED
FOR BY DR. A. R. MCKEOWN
Regarding the Man Jackson Who Was
Brot to the Hospital in an Uncon
scious Condition
Dr. A. R. McKeown felt that he
had not received a square deal in the
account giveD in last week's Echo of
the fight of the Finlanders in the west
end of town on Thursday afternoon
last and called on the editor of The
Echo to make a correction this week.
A thoro investigation shows the facts
to be even less flattering to the Doctor
than stated. In this connection we
may state that one of the facts of which
the Doctor complained is that The
Echo did not state that he was em
ployed by Hoy & Co. under a contract
agreeing to give medical attention to
all the company's employees while in
the employ of the company at .50
cents per month. The doctor states
that his presence at the east end of
town where Jackson, the man who was
brot to the hospiiat unconscious, and
who it was stated he kicked and struck,
is accounted for because of his employ
ment by the company. He says the
man was lying on the ground in a
stupor. Others say he took a book
out of his pocket and looked at it and
returned it to his pocket, and that the
man grabbed his coat and tore it, which
is verified by several who saw the trou
ble. He did not administer any
remedy or have the man brot to town
for treatment, tho his ear was lacer
ated and required two stitches to re
duce the cut when later brot down to
the Leavenworth Hospital in an appar
ently unconscious condition for treat
ment. Dr. G. W. Hoxsey stated to
a representative of this paper that the
man was apparently suffering from con
cussion of the brain. Dr. Judah, in
charge of the Leavenworth Hospital,
said to a reporter that if the man had
been allowed to remain where found
all night he would in all probability
have died. Dr. Judah also says that
Jackson escaped from the hospital
between three and four o'clock in the
morning while the nurse was tempor
arily absent from the room, without
either shoes, hat or coat, but was later
taken in charge by an officer and
locked up in the jail.
In reply to Dr. McKeown's charge
that his prescription was not on the
bottle of whiskey taken from the man
Jackson as stated by The Echo last
week it is here pointed out that the
label pasted on the bottle was copied
from the prescription he gave the man
on which he obtained the whiskey
from Druggist Koerner, as required by
law. The Doctor also states that the
man's condition was not due to whiskey
he drank but Hoffman drops andZemo,
a four ounce sample bottle of which
Mr. J. N. Leary took out of his pocket.
Dr. McKeown says he had a right to
prescribe for Jackson under his contract
with Hoy & Co., whiskey for medical
purposes. Right here is where the
Doctor gets tangled up. Jackson and
the other men who procured prescrip
tions from Dr. McKeown for whiskey
stated to the officers that they
paid him fifty cents for each
prescription. Now, if he pre
scribed for them as patients of Hoy
& Co. he had no right to charge for
the prescription as he was paid by the
company for taking care of their phys
ical welfare, and the fee of .50 cents
was taken out of each employes wages
every month for medical services.
This statement is confirmed by a
representative of Hoy & Co. The
men themselves say they had quit
the employ of the company Thurs
day June 29, drew their time and
cashed their checks. Dr. McKeown
also asked us to go thru the prescrip
tions issued in the past month and on
file with the two druggists of the town,
in which whiskey was prescribed. We
found on file at Mr. Koerner's drug
store between June 11 and 29 twelve
prescriptions in which two pints of
whiskey were prescribed, sometimes to
be taken inwardly with quinine tablets
Our Job Printing
department II com
plete. It you want
High Class printing
at reasonable pncea,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
or other medicine as often as required.
Sometimes it was to be rubbed on the
body when required. Sometimes the
directions were take a wine glass full
every three hours. Here Dr. Hoxsey
had six prescriptions on file. The
quantity of spirits prescribed was never
over a pint, sometimes less and was
either alcohol or brandy in connection
with drugs. At the city drug store
Dr. McKeown had eighteen prescrip
tions on file in which spirits were pre
scribed. Dr. Judah had three.
This paper holds no brief for any
doctor and treats them all alike. If
they violate the law or do anything in
which the public has an interest or
that might be considered news they
may depend en it this paper will print
the facts without coloring them iohide
a truth that may be unpalatable.
Poisonous Plants That Grow In
This Locality
Mr. W. W. Eggleston, connected
with the Interior department of the
government at Washington, making a
specialty of botany, was here this week
and in co-operation with local forestry
department will make a thoro investi
gation of the effects of poisonous plants
on live stock. It is not generally
known that every year stockmen lose
horses, cattle and sheep on the range
throu poisonous plants of one kind or
another. The loss of 1000 sheep in
this reserve is due to eating poison
weeds. A number of these plants are
quite common in this locality and be
cause some knowledge of them might
be useful to readers of The Echo we
are devoting space to their description.
Wild larkspar, of the family delphin
ium, has a blue flower and makes its
appearance early in the spring. The
seeds are most poisonous. Sheep either
do not eat larkspar in sufficient quan
tity or are not affected to any great
extent by this plant. Horses and cat
tle, especially the former, are most
often affected by eating larkspar.
Death camas, camassia esculento, is
quite common in this locality and is
one of the most poisonous of the nox
ious weeds. It has a y«llowish white
flower, and resambles what is often
called the wild onion. It affects all
stock. It is one of the first plants to
bloom in the spring.
Lupine, or commonly called horse
bean, is another of the noxious weeds
common in this locality. The seed,
like the larkspur, is the most poisonous.
Water hemlock, a variety of wild
parsnip is another poisonous weed that
affects range stock. The root of the
parsnip contains the poison. There
are a number of shrubs that put out
green ahoots early in the spring that
are considered poisonous, generally
confined to the higher altitudes.
Dr. and Mrs. A. G. McKeown
Entertain Bridge Party
One of the largest social functions of
the season occurred at the fine home
of Dr. and Mrs. A. G. McKeown on
River Front avenue last Saturday even
ing. The .rooms were handsomely
decorated with cut flowers. Seven
tables were devoted to the pastime.
Mrs. B. C. Rutherford and Mr. Clar
ence Campbell won high honors. At
a late hour an elaborate luncheon was
served. Following is the list of guests:
Mr. and Mrs. Wilder, Mr. and Mrs. J.
B. Adams, Miss Mildred Adams, Mr.
and Mrs. C. Campbell, Mr. and Mrs.
G. L. Gardner, Mr. and Mr. H. Kroll
pfeiffer. Mr. and Mrs. Cullen, Mr. and
| Mrs. Guy Hamilton, Mrs. Rutherford
Miss Rudisel, Mr. and Mrs. L. O. Tay
loy, Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Tegtmeier, Mr.
and Mrs. Carlquist, Mr. and Mr. A. R.
Brown, Arthur Wilder, Mr. Taylor,
Miss Lillian Grue of Bellingham and
the host and hostess.
Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Wilder and
daughter motored to Wenalchee on the
Fourth and when they returned Mr.
Wilder drove a new Reo into town.
Dr. Judah reports a case of diptheria
at the home of N. A. Pearson. Their
little daughter having developed the
1 disease.
