1Mgwra
If 3
I
•"f
Pi'
\u
1
r. vjy
h"
f-
r*n
V.,", '^.1A
f?
1 rft?
%i
«V
•V
-C,'
A-
i'"
i,
"J/V
r»
ni
k'.
1
5
..vV"" 1 VC
/V
ty
I
h-t
St
/A*
I ''.
VOLUME XXXVIII
Official Directory
i» US Senators A Gronna
jMcCumber
HTHelsreson
6 'Repreaen
tattve 1
Governor—JL :B Hanna
Kiientenant Governor—J Frane
Secretary of-State—Thoma«
:Hall
«tate.Tpeaeurer—John -Steen
State Auflitor-tC .jl orceneon
Jkttomey General—H iLlnUe
•ffisasr-fWwsir"
•mmionen Stutoman
Snpt oflPub InetHEJ Tajtlor
Oom tff (Ineurance-w TaS^or
Com 4jr 4OaAbor—K E'Bltnt.
TntUre "7th Jud.'JDist—W Kneeahaw
STATE SENATOR
A.J Mifffldden.Kedie.
iBPrasmraumnss
iWM Husband (Heneel
latOMiict IC\W:Ho«ei), Drayton
'IT 'H'McMiUan, rHamll
ton
COUNTY OFFIOIA'IjS
StaAee Attorney-^Wm McMurobiel
Cleft .afvCourt—J )D Wfptew
Slnftff-Cbas Atkinson
Auditor—\W m. W• Felson
Trea«urer—tHusfh (Gibson
Recteter of Deed«-+Geo Roadhouse
County .Judjte—H'G 'Vick
Surwy
or—-Herman Campbell
Supt of -6k)hoolB—Chatllotte Jones
Cotvomer—Frank \W. Xteason
Public Admin^r—EliS'Thorwaldsen
flet—AB Purdy. Joliette
nn..mi., land—JKQiafson, Gardarri
13rd—Adam
*1 -s JO. tft» M-yW* *, J. ,, y,
"Norton.CavieflfT
Com «s 4th—W Watts iLeroy
tSth—'Jos Morrison Drayton
!CU«.TOMS .OFHICIALS
Judw* LaMouie Jr'Collector
Robert Wonrison ^pecitU Deputy 2
A Karvey ln.niI4|ra 4
McConnaChie flDfpuMe8
E Raee€|l!Iimmigration Inspector
•M III dan 1 111 M*I'I
OFFICIAL PAPER OP CITY
sa.oo
WA*DWHU. nougoH.
IF-
A. WardwelL G/G- Tihompson
THE PROGRESS OF THE WAJg.
.Fighting still goes on with consider
able intensity at Veraun and both aides
claim minor successes. Tbe infantry
assalts however, appear to be leas fre
quent than they were. Petrograd claims
that the Russian drive westward has not
been checked, While Berlin and
Vienna say that the drive has been stop
ped. Probably both sides are right,
from their own point of view.
There are signs of a big assult by the
Germans at the north end of the long
line, probably to offset the &ains of the
Russians farther south who are threat
ening Lembefg.
Italy is claiming progress, but what
that progress may mean among the
mountain ranges needs closes observa
tion than press dispatches. But it at
any rate keeps a large Austrian army
busy which is perhaps that prime ob
ject. The most exciting news of the
week was the beginning of the long ex
pected "great drive" along the Franco
Belgian front. After nearly a week of
probably the most furious cannonading
which practically destroyed all of the
German first line trenches the British
-and French assaulted along a front nor
yet clearly named in miles, but probably
about twenty assaulted and pressed for
ward, the French at the farthest about
six miles and the British about three
miles on a general front of about ten
miles. This success bring ths French
within about three mile from Peronne
which is a very important railway junc
tion end whose occupation by the French
would threaten the -German lines so
muoh that they would probably have to
reform farther back. It is thought by
some critics that the French assault
was somewhat in the nature of surprise
to the Germans as the latter had been
piling up reinforcements in front of the
British in anticupation of the assault.
In a great assault like this, continuous
movement forward even by the victors
ia imposible. The victors must bring
forward their heavy guns and ammuni
tion and must dig new entrenchments.
Meantime the enemy haa the time and
opportunity to bring up reinforements
and reintrench and than the battle haa
again to be fought over, la a military
»Ww
.•
THE BANK OF OTTAWA
«*TABU«HED MM
Head Office Ottawa, Canada.
•OaplUl Paid Up 4^000,000
AMt and Undivided'Profits 4.V96.804
TaUl Assets «wr 56,000,000
SON. GBOHGB BKYSON, JOHN B. FRASBR,
President VieePnsldMt
eiK. HENRY N. ®ATE, ALBSKNDBR MACLARBN,
RU8SBIX BLACKBURN, DENIS MURPHY,
«IR HBNRY K. SGAN, SON. SIR GBORGB B. P8RUCC,
B. C. WHIZNBY.
GBOJIGB BURN, Qaneral Manager.
Flak
A A Bhroce
LA Ohrtstian
•on
E'T'Ba«ke
'E'BGOM
JiuOgee' of Supreme
•Court
*1
D. M.fISNIB, Asst-Geaenl Msnsmsi
mmJXBlB, CHtf Inspector.
Emerson Branch. R. G. MASTERTOPj, Mgr.
-sense. While not so broad, yet 'it is a
repetition of the late Russian -drive in
that it is an assault on a wide fron rath
er than at same particular front. It
has been disputed by some authorities
that it wss possible for any «rmy to
drive another from its third line of
trenches in one assault, bat the (French
apparently have done this is seme ipart
of the German line as six miles advaaoe
would cover all the advaase 'trench
works and here the French «fcaims that
they have the Germans out on ppen
jiround. With the advance so f«r, the
news to follow will be of great interest
as the Germans will make evefy effort
to-at least stop the advance and probab
ly to recover the ground. But with the
assaults on Verdun, the defeace of the
line on the Sonne river from the .French
and .British, stemming the hundred
mile drive of the Russians iaiGalicia,
iUbting the Italians on the Austrian
boundary and the threatening army of
French iBnglish and Serbians at .'Salon
ika the .Teutons must be pretty busy
these ihot days.
Looking towards Mexico, we have the
stirring news that Carranza has sent .a
pacifist note to President Wilson .and
that there is.no danger of war. Mean
time the militia of all the states are
.hurrying to the frontier as soon as ithey
can get ready, to guard that fwntier
from—t. .Also that while the President
has told Carranza plainly that he will
not withdraw .troops from Mexico until
ihe feels like]it. Yet Gen. Pershing is
under orders .from the Secretary of War
is retreating northward with the Mex
ican army close at his heels. Probably
the President thinks that after the
Carraval incident that Pershing and his
troops will be safer after they get under
.the protection of the North Dakota and
other state guards. It is a pitiful sight
toeay the least. No wonder the Mex
.ians think the Americans are cowards.
We either had the Eight to go into Mex
ico or we had no right to go there) If
we had aright to go we have the right
to stay as long as we .think it necesary.
If we had no right to go there we ought
not to have gone then. We went to
Mexico because Villa Mexicans treacher
ously assaulted an American village and
killed innocent American. Since then
Carranza soldiers have treacherously
killed and wounded a detachment of
American soldies. Who were searching
for the Villa Mexican. Our answer to
these outrages is that we want no war
with Mexieo and orders given to the
American army to retreat in .the face of
a few thousands of Mexican greasers
who follow| crying "coward gringoes".
The spectacle of a retreating Amer
ican army is the very greatest possible
incentive to war with us by the Mexican.
That is the nature of the greasers
INSANE, INANE OR SANE.
The celebration of July Fourth with
a great variety of "nises" most of which
were made with dangerous explosives
which cause loss of life, limb and extens
ive confladrations has to a large extent
been stopped by general consent as well
as good sense. But are we not too likely
to go from one extreme to another?
We say not an insane but a sane Fourth.
But let us make it sane and not inane
"Celebration" meana something. It
is an outward expression of patriotic
sentiment. It stirs up love of country.
There are many better and more sane
methobs of arousing enthusiasm and
patriotsm than by the dangerous can
ncn-cracker. But it is a fact, that en
thusiasm, noise and boys are inseparable.
The inventor who will produce a sub
stitute for the giant craoker, a substi
tute that will make just' as big a noise
but will be perfectly harmless, will take
a place in the halls of fame second to
none—in the estimation of the kids.
Though, forsooth, the lack of danger, will
.be more of a recommendation to the old
folks. Sport lhat is absolutely free
from danger has not excitement enough
,in it to suit boys, nor yet to most grown
men. Let's celebrate, sanely if we will,
I but still celebrate. Of the three, insane*
Mae or inane, the wont ia the inane.
..
1
£$-
PEMBINA, PEMBINA COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, FRIDAY, JULY 7th, 1916?
v'i
WB* PABTOUir.
The Pioneer Baprese has alway^ boen.a party paper.
We believe to parties and parttaiinship.
Politioal parties are the foundation of the republican form of government.
Political parties are based on certain principles.
The adherents of a political party votes to pat men in office to carry out
those party priooiples.
THE INDEPENDENT 18 A XOIXZTT.
The so cdlled independent voter boasts that he votes for men and n6t for
party. He1 may as well say that he votes for men rather than for principles.
When the independent voter "splits hie ticket" he votes
for two opposing principles
and thereby nullifies bis own vote. His choice is to hire one man to build and
another to tear down. He wants to hitch a team at both ends of the wagon be
cause they ate *both fine pullers.
CANDIDATES MUST UVBESBHT XKBH NICM^T,
In the aaanipullations of party politics it sometimes occurs that men are no
minated as candidates who do not represent or stand for party principles. It is
occasionally true that the minority is right and 'the majority is wrong. Usually
when this happens it is because the most of the 'majority have been grossly de
ceived or carried away by sudden outburst of false sentiment.
THE XA1B PRLMA«ar.
The basic principle of the North Dakota primary law is that parties shall be
governed and candidates nominated by the respective organised parties on a cer
tain primacy -election day. Every possible precaution that coold be divised has
been made to prevent one party interfering «r'Controliing the nominations of an
opposing party. At the late primary this part of the statutes governing primary
elections was ^completely ignored. There was an organised and successful effort
made by a body-of voters to control nominations, whose only legal right to vote a
republican ballot rested upon their personal assertions to fee assessor that they
were republicans, when as a matter of actual feet they were socialists.
THE NON PARTISAN PAWS' .-A PARTY.
There is no question at this time in the oninds of any intellegent person as
to the status -of the Nonpartisan party. Its very name is a fraud and contradic
tion. Two negatives in English grammar mate a positive. It has an organiza
tion, it has a ptetform (no part of which can be found in the politioal platforms of
anyj party except that of the Socialits) It bas held caucuses and conventions
(contrary to thetext and spirit of the primary law) it has nominated and support
ed its own candidates, it has not permitted the representation of any other party
or the advocacy of any other party principles in its deliberations or publications.
Whether these tthings constitute a political party or not it is only .neccessary to
read the opening paragraphs of the primary law ot North Dakota ana Webster's
lUnrbridged Dictionary. Indeed, that is not
THE PLATFORM
.','. "V ,-j ?. ,. ,:••1.*:". v*-'* '.\ .': 7'1 ._ ^:.-. r. ,•"
A *F I
„„f
.1 ... .'
WHERE ARE WE AT
oeoeBsary.
though a fool knows a party when he sees it and two weeks ago the newspaper
organ of that partyiopenly called it a party.
or
,THE NON-PABTISANS.
In brief, the following, are some of the principal planks of the Non
(Partisan party.
That this state (and later the Uqited States) shall be governed by farmers
and run in the special interests of th^ class. That heretofore the government
has been in the hands of business and professional people who have conspired to
irob the farmers of millions of dollars.
That "Big Business" rules the state through these local business people and
'through a horde of paid agents and a subsidized press.
To remedy the above evils the platform is to elect farmers only to the legis
lature to make laws by and for the farmers. To elect an executive and staff that
will carry out such laws when made. To select men for the supreme bench who
previous to nomination will declare their adherence to such principles and who
.therefore will render judgment on constitutional questions accordingly.
Among the proposed laws is one to build a terminal elevator or elevators in
another state with state money. Another is that a local flour mill shall be built
in each town (presumably with state money as so many private ventures have fail-
Compulsory hail insurance laws are to be enacted, while the state is to
establish banks at which farmers (farmers'only?) can borrow money at from two
to four per cent interest. Perhaps there are more remedies for farmers' many
ilia, but these are enough—and practically all of them in principle will be found
in the platform of the Socialist party.
THE POLITICAL RAID OF THE NON PARTISANS.
•The voters composing this party whose principles for the most part directly op
pose the principles of the present political parties as recognized by the state law,
with the avowed purpose of controlling the nominations of the majority party of
the state, purposely registred with the'local assessors mostly as republicans so
that they could control such nominations and put in candidates pledged to the
Nonpartisan party and who therefore werd no longer Republicans.
WILL VOTE FOR NON-PARTISANS ONLY.
The Nonpartisans were successful in their raid. They have nominated a
lot of candidates —as candidates of the Republican party, —and these same voters
and these same candidates are already pledged to support candidates whose
will appear in the Democratic column on the ballots at the November election. It
is also expected that in the same manner all Nonpartisan Democrats will vote for
the Nonpartisan nominees on the Republican ballot. Thus the Nonpartisans will
be false to both of the regular political parties and will be practically voting a
Socialistic ticket.
WHERE ARB WE AT?.
Are the men nominated at the primary loction last week nominees of the
Republican party?
Will these nominees support Republican principles?
Will these men support other Republican nominees?
Are they Republicans or Nonpartisans?
These are the questions that now come to every honest thinking Republican
and Democrat.
FOR EXAMPLE.
The nominee of the Democratic party for the senate in this First Legislative
District has been publicly endorsed by the Nonpartisan party. He will therefore
expect to receive the 47 Nonpartisan Republican votes cast in the township of
Pembina last week. Will he in return, vote for all the Republican state officers
nominates by the Nonpartisans —and still ask all regular democrats to vote for
him?
Will Governor to be Fraizer vote for Nonpartinized Casey for state treasure
er against Stein who had no opposition on the Republican ballot?
«ii.Will the Nonpartisans eleoted for representative on the Republican ticket
expect the Republican party vote while at the same time he is practically pledged
to cast his own bajlot against his Republican conferee and to vote for Pleasance
and O'Connor who h^fe the Nonpartisan endorsement?
POLITICS MAKES STRANG BEDFELLOWS
These are questions that confront the average straight Republican and De
mocratic voters this fall.
We are not at this time trying to answer the queiies. It is rather too early.
Many things may happen during three or four month*. But the questions are
there. Think them over.
In brief they are included in thi^ if a Nonpartisan ii not bound by any
ties except those of the NonpartlM* ffspr, shall the real Republican or Democra
ts voters be bound to vote lor candidate* of the Nonpartisan party?
N
The wayfaring man
W
t' *}****•&• •"»Jfjj" i«4»-M¥*xw» .- "i« »f I
Vtc w, ,*t
a. tJu
I
,..:\..'.v-
.' .•,*••• '.fv j. ".'
r? »V^vi^»
1 4
mr i.
HENEMAN SAY'S:
We have besides our re
gular large assortment of sum- i:
mer Dress good. The new::
things in large stripe suiting
and Silks that are so very pop
ular for skirts and middy waist.::
If you want the new and
latest come to our store. It
does not cost more to set the I
latest and best.
Saturday's Specials:
I can Hesperian Pineapple 18c
1 can Ulikem Peaches 18c
5 packages of Dr. Price's Oatmeal 1.00
7 packages of Dr. Price's Corn Flakes 50c
1 Can of Pears 15c
J. Heneman.
••••••••••••••••e»e»»e»eeee»e»»e»»»ee»e»e»e»»e»eee»»
The Moline Line!
Farm Machinery.
Disc and Boss Harrows.
Monitor Drills-best ever.
Sulkey and Gang Plows,
Users of these lines are our best
advertisers. Ask them. Satis
faction guaranteed.
I
You should see the new up-to-date Moline
"widespread" manure spreader.
Yon caa Afford to BUY FORD AUTOii
The most popular and best car
for the price. We carry Ford
supplies.
E.R.LANGTON,
Agent.
111 11 Mil I mill III 11 111 mi t"M"l"M 1111 HI'
McNURLIN BROS.,
of Marion, N. Dak.
Have opened the
Joliette Blacksmith Shop.
and are prepared to do general
Blacksmithing, Gas Engine!!
Repairing, Automobile fge-::
pairing.
Steam Engines Refitted and:=
Reflued.
Give us a call.
iimmiiiiiinniiiniinnniiiiiinnninnn^l
WW.
}\im
'•4
v,
1 jr-v
*f 3 \W
1.,
*U
,j4
f,,.vJ
NUMBER 3
*i\
I
1
$1
4 $
'A
