aMiaMiga/vvk ./i/i -, i I,
■ ■ XX <3 <■ r XVXT'TT A
iE- mT&wd M ItP//v\YT tto /p\ \uw/» ft* . -
Mmm w3m\ LI lct
twelfth year. no. •’
FIRE BLUIHT
utimley J- Nagley, county horticul
i>ml Inipector, has given the press the
ILlng very Intereatlun interview
Tthe question of (ire blight whieh
IttW be carefully stmlieil by every
,n,ltgrower In the valley;
Sow is a very good nine for every
nrchardist to give h' s 01 t hani a thor
__ji inspection for tire blight. At
zll this time last year there was
m outbreak of blight, scattered
•retty well over the a,ul ,ll *s
f-r there is still considerable blight
ibowing up and it is pretty well scat
tered. .
Twig blight is the most prevalent
(urmatthis time of the year. Its pres
et* H Indicated by the blighting of
tie twigs from the lips downward. The
MTM turn brown and the new bark
sap wood turn black; as it works
tt*n Into the limb the blackened parts
tan brown, then to a pinkish color,
ffhire the bacteria have done their
fcUge the color will be dark brown
on the apple wood and blaek on the
Mlf,
The canker blight, should you llml
ay, will be on the larger limbs. The
tinkered areas at Hist will he small
la outline, but may later progress into
i long, extended canker, anil often
completely girdle the limb. The bac-
Itria remain alive in the margins of
tkwe cankers through the winter, and
ll the aprlng, when the sup becomes
ictlve they renew their activity- ran
ker! can sometimes be cut out. but
wring the growing season it is rather
a flaky practice as the infection is
iprq/t to quite an area around the
caiker. The best method is to cut out
thtUmbor the tree if necessary. Bac
teria exudation is usually emitted
(ramany blighted part of the tree and
(liferent Insects feed on tins ooze and
lim visit the blossoms, twigs or fruit
ud rapidly spread the infection. To
reduce the spread of Are blight it is
am till to remove the cankers.
Warm, moist wea'her favors the de
velopment of blight. Infected twigs,
liter sprouts or limbs should he cut
cat at least 12 Inches on apples and IS
Itches below any hark discoloration
«-peart. The tetri-used should be dis-
laferted after each and every cut with
uirroalve sublimate 1:1000 or 1 tablet
tea pint of water. The cuts should al
io be disinfected. This solution should
Is kept In a glass jar. Do not carry in
tin pail-The diseased portion cut from
ike tree should be immediately burn
ed. Do not allow them to accumulate.
During the past week I have found
Ire Night in four orchards un (lie gov
ernment project. There is a distance
ol it least two miles between any of
these orchards. That means every man
with an oicbard, no matter where,
nut keep a sharp lookout. Fire blight
*» no respecter of persons, neither is
ll any respecter of distances. It can
travel just as far as a bird can fly.
The following is taken fiom the an
nul report of T. E. DeSaleoi horticul
tural inspector, Yakima county:
“As a result of fire blight in Yaki
mi county the county hoard of equali
vaUon reduced the valuation o f prnp
«ty that had been seriously injured
kom lire blight to the extent ot $70,-
Wt."
This is only 50 per cent of the ac
tul valuation, or In other words there
*we $140,000 worth of fruit lands re
duced to the same level as general
lirm land. Mr. DeSalem says that he
believes that a very conservative esti
mate of the loss of the Yakima fruit
flowers of Yakima have sustained the
lut few years would easily be over
$200,000.
If we want to kep a similar report
out ol Okanogan county, as we cer
jainly do, there is only one way to do
"• That Is, every grower make a thor
ough Inspection of his orchard at least
twice a week for the next month, and
ouce a week for the next month fol
ding, Cut out all blights or signs of
■lht. If you are in doubt, call on
one who knows blight, or if the
&hted part Is small, cut out any
*V. Do not let anyone sell you a pat
•ht cure for blight. There are none.
as soon as one is discovered you
* be notified by your experiment
nation.
“——<»►
bur friend of the Wlnthrow Journal
Ibe laugh on us because the Ga
te reported all the bridges on the
*how washed out during high water.
* hunch seemed straight enough at
. 1 me > an d our informant was lion
hutut* 16 got t,le rei,or,: second hand,
like all of the exaggerated stories
“ circulation during the flood days,
un W * S an error - Considering the
Mn° Unt water sliding down from the
im. K nd ,he fact that 11 llood l‘ as
, a * en evidence for □ number of
nn'h’ . exc * ta^*e people thought that
(oil damase an d death should have
_ ® wed as an a ccompaniment to high
j"' and 80 kot busy anticipating what
l(ft (o’ luckily w e did not put por
tlier *. * n a " Eilcs afloat or
ti*. B «^? u ' d kave keeu harrowing sio
told in print.
(HANGED IIAM»s.
E. E. Crandall, of Spokane, special
agent of the Pacific Telephone and
Telegraph company, that recently took
over the local telephone system, spent
the week in Oroville, checking n|( the
office, becoming acquainted with the
people and arranging for the future
handling of the office. Mr, Crandall
states that the company aims to give
the public a thorough and reliable
service, and will make such changes
and improvements from time to time
as may be considered advisable to
meet the requirements of the business.
Tlte Pacific Telephone and Telegraph
company is a powerful organization,
covering the entire coast with a net
work of wires. In order to hold the
business established the company has
modernized every feature of the tele
pi. one service, and will in time work a
great improvement in the local system,
as it commands the means to carry out
any Improvement that may be decided
on. it is to tlie best interests of Ihe
company to give the best service pos
sible, and that is what it is doing
whever its lines extend.
At tills lime, as site retires from a
business that was thrust upon her
under most painful circumstances, we
feel that It is due to the retiring owner
and manager to extend to her full
credit for the work she has performed
and service rendered under a trying
situation. P. .1. Anderson originally
Installed the local telephone system
when the outlook for its success from
a financial standpoint was proble
matical. Me had hardly completed
stringing the wires and installing a
few telephone boxes when he was
electrocuted by coming in contact with
a high voltage wire. Mrs. Anderson, in
order to support her family, was com
pelled to assume the management of
the business. It was a serious and try
ing undertaking for a woman, hut she
persevered learned by experience and
has served the public during the inter
vening years faithfully and well. She
has always been accommodating and
courteous witli the patrons of the of
fice, and she is entitled to a full meas
ure of credit and praise for the man
ner Ifi which she Tins handled thi 5
business. Since Mrs, Anderson assum
ed charge the work in the office has
increased many fold. She has endeav
ored to meet the requirements of
changed conditions, and has done so to
the satisfaction of the public. It is re
ally remarkable how well she has suc
ceeded in conducting the business of
the office. She won the respect and
confidence of the people of this place
and goes out from the active manage
ment of the business with the best
wishes of all the patrons she has
served so long and faithfully.
AGAINST PREPAREDNESS,
East Sunday morning July 2, 1916,
Karl Ulonska spoke on preparedness,
the kind that a Christian ought to he
in favor of. Me spoke of the terrible
results of the war in Europe, how that
it is accomplishing nothing hut human
suffering, heartaches and distress. He
spoke of the tremendous sums that
were being wasted and all that was
being accomplished by them was the
killing and maiming of some of the
finest young men of Europe.
Me said that this is what the pre
paredness advocates are urging for
America, All Europe prepared for
peace and got war ami I tie prepared
ness advocates are advocating that
America also prepare for "peace.
Then lie spoke of tiro advancement
and benefits that could he gotten by
the use of the money, which prepared
ness advocates urge to use for mili
tary preparedness, by using this mon
ey for peaceful purposes. A macadam
ized road could lie bullded ail over tills
country twelve tidies apart and six
inches deep with this amount of
money. Yea, it is even more money
than we spend in educating our boys
and girls. The kind of preparedness
that we ought to he in favor of is the
preparing ourselves and our hoys and
girls for social service. Prepare to
live and help others and by doing that
consistently anil extensively war will
he averted.
Mr. Ulonska spoke for about fifteen
minutes and in that time lie gave a
clear, well rounded speech ou pre
paredness and never mentioned poli
tics. It is well for all church members
and church going people lo hear such
statements as this. They get one sue
of the question of preparedness from
the Associated Press; they need to
know both sides of the question before
they can formulate their opinion in
telligently. We sincerely hope and
trust that Mr. Ulonska will have the
opportunity of giving his message on
preparedness In the many churches ot
this country.
W. W. ST RITE,
Pastor of M. E. church, Oroville.
The heavy rain of Sunday
washed out the road near Nine-Mile o
a considerable extent.
OROVILLE, WASHIN ATOM, JtJLV 7, 191G
A SEVERE TEST.
A deluge in the nature of a cloud
hurst covered a zone of territory in
the valiey between I.auber gulch and
hrittuin Fiat Sunday night. An excep
tionally heavy rain fall was exper
ienced throughout the valley at that
‘liile, and the cloud burst, as is evi
deuced from the abnormal rush of
"aler that washed out roads and gul
lies very extensively, was an incident
ot that visitation. The local irrigation
system stood up under the crucial test
far beyond what could have been ex
pected At the time of this minature
flood the flumes and ditches were
carrying water to 30 per cent capacity.
I he ditches are slightly higher than
the flumes, and while the excess r.on
lull carried the flumes to overflowing
it had no deleterious effect upon the
ditches, immunity from distraction
that could not have been expected un
der the circumstances. A short section
of flume went out at one place, hoi
that was no fault in the construction.
An ordinary dry gulch oven in wet
weather become a torrent, from (he
contribution of the cloud burst, and
the flood swept away a short section,
filling the ditch far some distance with
sill. Tlie damage was merely nominal
and speedily repaired. If the Irrigation
ditch can stand up under such an
extraordinary strain and experience
us that of Sunday night it is evident
that it is going to endure under all
tests (lint it may he subjected to dur
ing its natural life time, and no better
proof could be desired us to tlie ex
cellent character ot the work done by
the. contractors.
( 01 Mil, PROCEEDINGS.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of Orovllle, Washing
ton, July ;i, 1916.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilman
Frils, Beale, Smith and Slarrett.
Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved as read. The report
of the town treasurer was read and
ordered placed ou file. The report of
James Ferguson as police judge was
read and on motion, was ace/Buled w
Motion was made and seconded that
the town treasurer be Instructed to
transfer SIOO.OO from the Water com
pany fund to the current expense fund
and $.100.00 from the bond fund to the
current expense fund. Motion carrleyl.
Mr. Seward appeared before the
council asking permission to fill a
certain part of Washington street io
protect his property from the high
water and to use the ground so filled
for agricultural purposes. The council
agreed to look the ground over before
any action was taken iu Hie matter.
Mr. Murphy then appeared before
the council asking for an expression
of the council in regard to an alleged
not in which certain Japanese subjects
claim to have bad property damaged
to (lie amount of SSOO. After some dis
cussion the council decided that tiny
did not care to make any expression
in the matter.
Ordinance amending ordinance No.
74 granting a franchise to the Pacific
Telephone & Telegraph company was
read and on motion was passed its
first and second reading. At the request
of the company the town hall, pump
house and the Civic League building
were designated as the locations of the
free telephones. On motion the follow
ing hills were allowed and ordered
paid:
K. R. Moose, salary $101.00; E. J.
Wilson, salary 75.00; E. A. McMahan,
salary 19.65; .las Ferguson, police jus
tice fees, 18.60; Shaw & Borden Co.,
bond register, 14.60; Arthur Oherg, la
bor on water works, 1.90; Acme Stamp
Works, dog tags, 2.56; Bowles Com
pany, pipe and fittings, 64.32; Oka
nogan Power & Eight Co. power and
supplies 99.80; Orovllle Garage, batter
ies, 2.00, H. J. Desmond suplies for
water works, 1.60; Crane Ac. Co. pipe
and fittings 21.50; Orovllle Telephone
Co telephone, 3.00; Schultz * Son,
freight and drayage, 19.45; J. T. Payne
hlacksmithing, 6.75; S. H. Sanderson,
pipe and labor, 4.35; E. M. Prentice,
street cleaning, 5.00; Orovllle Commer
cial Co. gasoline and rope, 102.11; Ed.
Hall, witness fees, 2.20.
On motion the council adjourned,
E. R. MOOSE, Clerk.
E- D. Cartier Van Dissel (locally
known as Dan) and family came down
from Orovllle last Friday for a visit of
a week with P. M. Cartier Van Dissel
and family and their many local
friends. Dan says the Oroville country
agrees with him and that he likes it
there hut he isn't a bit tatter than he
was when he left here ten months ago,
so he certainly hasn't fared any better
there than here, gastronomically at
least. Mr. and Mrs. Van Dissel have a
host of friends here who would be
more than pleased to see them return
to Springdale to live, hut Dan says
there is no prospect of such a tiling
happening at the present time.—
Springdaie Reformer.
ASSESSED VALUATIONS.
County Assessor 0. H. Knosher is
mailing post card notices to all owners
of real estate (where mailing address
were secured through the deputies) ad
vising them of the valuations that have
been determined upon the land and
which are to prevail during the years
IlHt! and 1!) 17. All holders of laud
should examine these notices care
fully and wherever possible should
make comparison with neighboring or
adjoining tracts within the same school
district. The assessor has sought to
secure"careful and accurate data con
cerning the true conditions pertaining
to every acre of taxable land in the
county. He has repeatedly urged the
co-opefatlon of the tax payers to the
end (hot the classification work tills
year might be reliable, and he has
faithfully taken into consideration all
matters bearing "upon land values at
the ptysent time. This notice should
not be, mistaken for a tax statement.
The assessor does out llx the tax levies
ami nothing to do with the collec
tion of'the taxes. The taxes to be bused
upon these new valuations will not be
payable until February, IHI7, Since
IP 12 there lias been added to the tax
rolls approximately 160,000 acres of
laud, and the county population has
increased quite materially during these
past four years. Naturally a great deal
of cleat cal work must be done by the
assessor's office, requiring a substan
tial corps of office assistants during
the spring and summer months. Mis
takes rtre very liable to appear in such
a large volume of detail work and ttie
lax (layers are reminded that the coun
ty board of Equalization will meet the
first Monday in August for the purpose
of hearing protests and Hie correction
of errors. Tax (layers who believe their
land lias been excessively valued, or
where errors have been made, should
immediately correspond with the as
sessor’s office or lie prepared to ap
pear before the board of equalization
during the August session for the pur
pose of entering protest. Failure to
take advantage of the meeting of the
tioar equalization forfeits the prlvl
ligeu, fcnvUu; alterations made on the
rVtfrent tax' roofs!' offolftr'lols
and buildings cannot conveniently be
notified of valuations, except upon re
quest, owing to I lie frequent uncer
tainty of record owneship and luck of
mailing address. Owners desiring in
formation concerning town valuations
must, state correctly lot numbers and
block.
NIK KM KTH AT OMAK.
In point of numbers in attendance
the -till of July celebration held at
Omsk three days tills week, was the
most successful that lias ever taken
place in the county. Not only was al
most every portion of the county rep
resented, but owing to the opening of
the registration books for the Colville
reservation drawing a large number of
people were present from a distance.
The celebration Itself was not differ
ent in character of degree to many
other events of the same nature that
have taken place in the past, it was in
the crowd alone that the affair sur
passed all former efforts along that
line. Of course there was much com
plaint as to tire accomodations, skin
games, etc., but those complaints are
the common heritage of every town
that attempts a celebration of any
kind, it was not to be expected that
accommodations in so small a place
would be equal to what might be ex
pected in a large city, and carping
critics should not prejudice those who
were not present. The good people of
Omak did all in their power to enter
tain visitors, and they are to be con
gratulated uiion the success that re
warded their efforts.
CARD OF THANKS.
The undersigned, at this time when
retiring from the ownership and man
agement of the local telephone system
after several years of active service,
desires to take this means of express
ing her appreciation for the uniform
kindness, aid and encouragement ex
tended to her by the people of Oroville
since the time she was compelled to
assume charge of tlie local office, and
to extend here sincere and heartfelt
thanks to the patrons of the system
for their patience, courtesy and liber
ality.
MRS. LUELLA 11. ANDERSON.
M. E. SERVICES,
Services of the M. E. Church for
Sunday, July 9, 1916.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. There will
be no preaching service as the pastor
will be at Tonasket in the morning.
Epworth League at 7 p. in. Preaching
service at 8 p. m. Subject of sermon,
• The Golden Rule.” Everybody wel
come; everybody invited; everybody
come. The homelike church and the
stranger's friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
A CLOSE SHAVE.
Judge E. K. Pendergast came In
from Republic Monday evening with
Ids head so swathed in bandages that
one could readily have supposed that
he was just returning from the
trenches on the French front, a victim
of shrapnel, or that he had been tan
gled up In an autor wreck, an Irish
wake or a boiler explosion. Upon In
quiry it was ascertained that the cause
of Ills carrying bis head in a sling
was an attack of blood poisoning. The
judge had been called to Spokane to
occupy the bench in one of the super
ior courts for a few days, and while
ia that city had occasion to put his
face in care of a barber, an ordeal that
all normal men submit to where they
do not do their own shaving. The
knight of the razor set the edge of his
weapon too close, which means almost
the removal of the cuticle- The next
day tlie lower part of the Judge's face
had swollen to twice its normal size,
and lie was nursing some worry. He
had to hold court at Republic, uud
when lie reached that city his front Is
piece was all out of shape. Ur. Fred
Whittaker pronounced the affliction a
case of blood poisoning, and proceeded
to gel busy beading off the infection,
and (banks to Ills skill us a practi
tioner succeeded. Tlie prompt and effi
cient action of tlie doctor probably
prevented a vacancy on the bench.
Tuesday morning when headed for
home Judge Pendergast had discarded
tlie insigna of damaged goods, although
Ills face had not as yet shrunken to
its natural proportions. Tlie tonsorlal
skinning with its subsequent results
will probably induce the judge to in
vest In a safety razor and do his own
scraping.
OSTEMtEKO-MEANOIL
The marriage of George Ostenberg,
of Okanogan, and Miss Alice M. Mean
er, of Loomis, occurred at the home of
the bride’s mother, Mrs. T. P. McNeil,
at Loomis, Tuesday of last week, in
the presence of a few friends and rel
atives. The groom is highly spoken of
by all who know him. He 1s a son of
'Mr. uml Mrs. Chas. Ostenberg, old and
highly respected citizens of Okanogan.
Ho Is a young man of high principles,
steady and industrious. The bride is a
winsome young lady, who has grown to
womanhood in Loomis, and is admired
and respected by all who know her.
She taught in the public schools of
Orovllle during the last school year
and not only was her record as a
teacher exceptionally good, but she
won the friendship of old and young
by tier charming personality. The
Gazette joins with their multitude of
friends in wishing Mr. and Mrs. Osten
berg all the happiness that can come
to mortals on this mundane sphere.
THE LOOMIS CELEBRATION.
It is doubtful If a more pleasant
celebration from every point of view
took place in the state than that held
at Loomis, in which a very large num
ber of residents of the surrounding
country participated. The weather
was ideal and the people of the old
camp presented a program of sports
and events that supplied pleasure and
entertainment to those present. Every
body entered into the spirit of the
celebration, and these so fortunate as
to be present declared it to have been
one of the most enjoyable affairs of
the kind they have ever attended In
the county. People were pressnt from
all the surrounding country, and Oro
villc and Tonasket sent large dele
gations to swell the crowd. The day
passed off without an accident to mar
the pleasure. It was the kind of a
celebration this paper predicted
would take place, for when the people
of Loomis set about supplying enter
tainment for the visitors there Is no
community that can surpass them In
hospitality and enterprise.
LIBRARIAN’S REPORT.
Tlie following is the librarian’s re
port for tlie Civic League library for
the month of June;
Number of books taken out, 92;
number of applicants 7; fines collected
95 cents.
The thanks of the library manage
ment are extended to Mrs. L. D. Oliver
for a large donation of choice books.
CHILDREN’S DAY EXERCISES.
On Sunday morning at 11 o’clock the
Children's Day program will be given
in tlie Presbyterian church. The pro
gram will consist of songs and recita
tions by members of the Sunday
school. All are invited to come and en
joy tlie program.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Sunday school at 10 o’clock. At 11
o’clock the children’s day exercises
will be held. You are invited to come
and enjoy all our services.
A. W. BOYD, Pastor.
SOME OF THE REASONS.
A few days ago a friend of ye editor,
and a very estimable gentleman whom
we hold In high esteem, called up this
office over the telephone and as a
gentle protest against this paper con
stantly advocating a buy at home
spirit, mentioned that he had priced
a certain article at the stores in town
and found the ruling quotations to he
$6, and a mail order catalogue quoted
the same article for almost a third
less. Even with the addition of a lib
eral express charge leaving the for
eign price at least a dollar less than
the local figures. We were asked to
account for this discrepency, and
where we would buy under the cir
cumstances. Over the telephone we
could not well discuss the matter of
how seemingly so marked a differ
ence in price should exist, but to ans
wer how we would act under the cir
cumstances was easy. As generally
we are forced to "have things cbarg
ed”, we would naturally buy at home,
and we would do so anyhow even If
that hardly Imaginable condition
should exist of having the cash on
hand. Somehow we cannot get over the
habit of supporting home establish
menls, even if there are instances
where home establishments do not al
ways support us. We do this because
we believe in it honestly and (Irmly.
Alsu because the home business house
pays taxes in the town and county,
and we know of no mull order bouse
that pays a dollar toward the support
of the town or county, although they
take thousands of dollars out of both
town and county- Because when there
are any call for popular subscriptions
to make local improvements, carry on
public entertainments, to help civic
betterments, to respond to the call of
charity, we touch the local merchant,
who responds cheerfully. We have
never heard of a case where mail or
der houses eve r contributed a nlckle
toward anything of this nature In
Orovllle, or any other town in the
l;.nd. Try thin once and see how
quickly and coldly you wilt be turned
down.
Since that conversation w.o- have
learned something about a niaii order
house with a branch in Seattle that
enables us to tell our friend how it is
that the mail order institution can in
many Instances undersell the country
merchant, it Is not a new discovery
by any means, but is an old story
that lias the freshness of coming di
rectly from headquarters. This infor
mation was received from a friend
living on the coast who was recently
in town, and that friend received his
information directly from an acquain
tance holding a responsible position
with the Seattle mail order establish
ment. In the first place, and a fact too
well known for comment, the mail or
der house sells only for cash. No or
der is filled without the equivalent in
hard coin. There is no intricate book
keeping, no bad tills, no expense of
delivery, no time and money lost try
ing to collect. The mail order houses
does not buy from wholesalers it buys
directly from the manufacturer, gen
erally taking the entire output of some
certain article in public dmiand, thus
securing prices that even the whole
saler cannot approach. During the first
six months of this year lire Seattle
branch made sales to the amount of
$2,500,000, while the Chicago house in
the same period cleaned up $40,000,000
and this is no exaggeration. Why not?
Every post office in the country sends
a steady golden stream into the cof
fers of the house, and millions of buy
ers means millions in money. Is it
possible for any country store to com
pote with such monopolistic monstros
ities? Is It safe for the country to build
up such powerful and financially
bloated institutions to the elimination
of the country merchant? Every man
has the inalienable right to buy or sell
where he pleases, but will it pay, Just
' for the saving of a few cents?
>'EW OFFICERS.
At a recent meeting of Oroville lodge
I. O. O. F., the following officers were
installed by Deputy Grand Master A.
J. Jackson, assisted by Brothers Mc-
Mahan, Carrel and Hendrix. J. M.
Fraser, acting past grand; A. P. Mur
ray, N. G.; Will Wentworth, V. (},; 11,
O. Johnson, warden; W. Kleinsbay,
Con.; A. J. Jackson, R. S. N G;; Ern
est Riste, L. S N. G.; L. E. Hendrix, R.
S. V. G.; J. M. Adams, L. S. V. O.: W
L. Uissell, K. S. S.; Silas Fritz, L. S.S.;
A. E. McMahan, I. G.; J. P. Frils, O.
G.; J. M. T. Williams, Chaplain: J. W.
Carrel, trustee.
After the installation ceremonies
the members sat down to a splendid
supper, which was followed by cards.
About 2 o’clock the members dispers
ed after having spent a very enjoyable
evening.
Mrs. A. !l. Larsen accompanied by
her daughters, Miss Salma and Lucy
Larsen, left Thursday for Seattle for
a visit of some duration. Mrs. Larsen
Is the mother of Mrs. E, D. Van Ulssel,
91.60 PER YBAK
