The Caldwell. atc hman
VOL. 30. COLU, A LOUIIAANA, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916. -
CARRANZA REPLY
RECEIED; MAKES
G000 IMPRESSION
WASHINGTON PREFERS DIRECT
NEGOTIATIONS TO MEDIATION
-MEXICAN NOTE FRIENDLY.
SEC'Y LANSING IS SATISFIED
Plans For Border Cantonments Urged
in Carranzas Reply-Mexicans
Suggest Guard on Each Side
of the Border.
'ashlinxton.--E:arly resumption of
friendly diplomatic conversations vwithI
the de facto governinel1t of .Miexrco to
the end that peace and oi-hbr may b,)
restored in northern Mtx', z r:al alotm:
the border is expectled lhre to be tlih
next step of the United States in its
relations with its southern neighbor.
The crisis precipitated by Villa's
raid on Columbus, N. M1., and culmi
nating in the fight at ('arrizal ,e
tween American and Mexican troops
appeared to have been dissipated by
an amicable note from Gen. (arranza
presented by his ambassador designate
here, Eliseo Arredondo.
The note proposes that the differ
ences between the governments be
settled by mediation or by direct ne
gotiations. It is remarkable for its
brevity its restrained and friendly
tone and for the absolute lack of any
of the strong, even insolent language
which characterized the last two com- i
munications from the do facto govern
ment. It treats as a closed incident
the exchange of unfriendly conmlnunl
cations which brought war almost
within sight.
No formal comment on the note was
' ."obtainable from State Depart ent of
_ eM n ' so wi ll deter- a
mine the course to be pursued. The e
fact that Secretary Lansing complet- P
ed preparations for a month's vaca- t
tion is regarded as significant, how- t
ever, of a feeling on his part that the
crises is over.
Two Problems Are Presented.
The text of the note follows:
"Washington, D. C.
"Mr. Secretary-I have the honor to
transmit in continuation the text of a
note I have just received from my f
government with instructions to pre
sent it to your excellency:
' 'Mr. Secretary-Referring to the
notes of June 20 and 25, last, I have
the honor to say to your excellency
that the immediate release of the
Carrizal prisoners was a further proof r
of the sincerity of the desires of this
government to reach a pacific and sat
isfactory arrangement of present dif
ficulties. This government is anxious
to solve the present conflict and it
would be unjust if its attitude were
misinterpreted.
"'It was also the Mexican govern
ment that earnestly suggested a plan
for cantonments alongs the boundary
line during the conferences of Ciudad
Juarez and El Paso. This government
is disposed now, as it has always been,
to seek an immediate solution to the
two points which constitute the true
causes of the conflict between the two
countries. to wit: The American gov
ernment believes reasonably that the
insecurity of its frontier is a source of
difficulty and the Mexican government
on Its part believes that the stay of
American troops on Mexican territory,
aside from being a trespass on the
sovereignty of Mexico. is the imme
diate cause of tihe conflicts. There
fore, the withdrawal of American
troops, on the one hand, and the pro
tection of the frontier, on the other,
are the two essential problems, the
solution of which must be the direct
ing object of the efforts of both gov
ernments.
Would Prevent Border Incidents.
" 'The Mexican government is will
ing to consider in a quick and practi
cal way and prompted by a spirit ofi
concern the remedies which should be;
applied to the present situation.
"'Several Latin-American countrIesl
have offered their friendly mediation
to the Mexican governmecnt, and ther
latter has accepted it in principle
Therefore. the Mexican government
only awaits information that the zov
ernmt'nt of the u:nited States would be( i
disposed to accept this mediation for,
the purpose menttiolned above, or
whether it is still of the belief thlnt
the same results may be attained by
means of direct negotiations between
both governments.
"'In the meantime, this government
proposes to employ all efforts that
Jay eil a0 t its d(is .-:I toI avoi d t'.e re
. currncle of lnew ilncid entsl \Ohi(,ih m;ia
(omll)ilic ite and acgravat' thI s ili
tion. At the Saie tile' it hopfs that
the \American governmenlllt oni its part
may inake use of all efforts !) rr\vent
also new acts of its military and civil
authorities of the frontier that might
cause new comlplicatiorls.
"'I avail myself of this opplortunity
to reiterate to your excellency the as
surance of my most distinguished con
siderat ion.
"'(Signed) C. AGUILAR.'
"Having thus complied with higher
instructions of myv government, it a!
fords me pleasulro to reiterate to ,our
excellency the a,:surance of my high
est consideration.
"(Signed) E. ARIIEDONDO."
Direct Negotiations Preferred.
As a matter of general pri rl~ the 1
abl' for such procedure. There is <
every indication, however, that in the t
present instance it will be deeoomed de
sirable to conduct forthcoming nego
tiations directly with the ('arranza
government.
Members of the Latin-American dl.1
plomatic corps here are expected to
make inquiry soon as to the attitude
of the Washington government, in
view of the statement of the Mexi
can foreign office that it awaits only a
decision here as to whether mediation
or direct negotiations would he pre
ferable. Indications were that the in
quiries would be met with assurances
that the two governments had reached
the stage where they would not find
it necessary to call upon the friendly
services of their neighbor states.
It is not known whether a formal
reply to Gen. Carranza's note is con
templated. Diplomatic usage does not
call for one, any more officials feel
that more can be accomplished through
informal discussion between Mr. Ar
redondo and Counsellor Polk, who will
acts as secretary in Mr. Lansing's ab
sence, than could be hoped for in any
other way. It is understood Mr. Ar
redondon plans to call at the depart
ment to say good-by to Secretary Lan
1 sing before the latter's departure for
his vacation. Probably the prelimi
nary steps necessary for the inaugura
tion of the informal discussion will be
taken then.
Willing to Withdraw Troops.
State Department officials appeared
entirely satisfied with the definition of
the matters to be settled outlined in
the new Mexican note. It is present
ed in this language, as translated at
the embassy.
"The American government be
lieves, reasonably, that the insecurity
of its frontier is a source of difficulty,
and the Mexican government on its
part believes that the stay of .\Antri
can troops on Mexican territory. aside
from being a trespass on the sover
eignty of Mexico, is the immediate
cause of the conflicts. Therefore, the
withdlrawal of American troops, on
the one hand, and the pl)roe(ction of
I' the frontier, on the other. are the two.
Sessential problems, the solution of
' which must be the directing object of
; the efforts of both goveri'"nn."
('oupled with this definition is na
I onutline of a sort of milit ary isli:tui::
t tquo beyond the Iorder \\hich t h' tl
: facto go\-ertnment suelts's ;s a sutII
stitlut for its prrviotls de(m1, :l: firi
I. illlnwdiarte withdr;awal of the .\mri
- can troons. It is s'atecd 1as follo-:
iti !ithe eitantinime. (p tn diilng o!uw,i
r tion or direct niegotiatio ) 'hi< pr
et irnment proposes to etpnlity itl I 1
I forts that may be at its disposal to
1 avoid recurrence of now inl !eints
11 which mnay complicate and aggra-at e
the situation. At the same time it
t hopes that the American government
t on its part may make use of all tof
rtis li prlvie lit :Sn nr>V aci of its
ilitarv a rd (.vil authorities on the
frontier tli:iL !igiit Canji 1(w 0m\conpl i
('at i()nl ."
\\W il(r 1h ohbi t ef th ni goti:tios t
I T I lll- ('liriy' 11 ll: ill d :;l n p ears
: t,'(' . 1 , , ti ) ' 1 ,,, t tii; ' l Lpartlllent,
* :h' ýu11 i'(s tO hie' (en .sil red sp'cifl'
,lnl, i 1 .I u v: tIio h r4iT iLie d later.
I'r -  V sele m r' IrIs ' .:li. it (,lear
L:t ;Il ! :: 'i 1,h1 'li r g ;i tliii w\ irl:Iraw
. :I , ~ .-.iioiju i for' 1 u ovuV ibl be
l' ' 1,, (' lii' tis ; l atured til t ('ar
;';* . rL1i r(i t w ldh! be eiplu0yl ac.
, , it L i braki i~rp i : ail pre at'ra
, is lor t lt,\\ r:. ill it t: ; ,tLen noted
:,!,'i1 \' 1 il t ih e , ,xif'\C tir(l l i ha e
'I cupieil, and licd the territory re
,i: i-i ( 1l y i(;'enL . Pi ershing ast he
,,,:'s' i i l(ti,'e 1 :t11 ihiL , 4l a ieIi .Ll (on'
¾ii-i('jiiii , ',,;] * ti i \W llY i lr."l' i l5 2Len
S l' noit. i u:o'' lead tio omlnpleto
 t li h I l tr,\xit f 1" :, f,,rce asL ri tlidly as
!is ,i! ;c 1 houi~L e d: rinL' ir' ini tihe
harder.
Guards on Both Sides.
Iln ( 1: it t!!e' !a',,.put ;o . p ioPoi esF
t ' . it It . (l ; h ', it ler n i lt tt in: k i) the
Wlal i mnwd\za:( 'ly followil11. the ('ollul
b1u :h t { , ;1!ld W ho ll n e:,"', lttnti ill:o ,ONr o
raidilers. I'orldlitlonl s have chlanged
silin ' I4 ln 1. H!liWi'\l'r, ('en. C(arranzi '
!1;i\'tii1 aitllr lbllid :na ons.ideraile armni
in \'ortheirn! tiex'ico untll the UnIited
lt -es hivirng call(-d the entire nation.
:ei! Otuard to lhI line for patrol duty. It
is reg.:ridei as improbable that any
plan for Am-,rican pursuit of bandits,
exciept possily within limited areas
where a hot irail is followed and no
('arranza troops are available., will be
lissucced in thie new negotiations.
A plan for "horder cantonnents," to
which reference is made in the note.
was proposed by Gen. Obregon at his
conference in rEl Paso with Maj-Gen.
Scott, chiefofof staff of the army. Gen.
SItott would not consideir it then be.
cause it was Ifunded on the stipulation
that Gen. '(ershiing s eolutmn would be
withldrawn inmnediatelv. That Gtipu.i
lation in effect now is revoked anyt
nnqnestionably American officials now
will give the plan serious consider
tion. 7 b
camps of Mexican and Am&erica
troops be established opposite each
other on their respective sides of terri
line. nformation as to bandit monave
ments ould at te inorder it anougeld by the
camp coin anders and military opera
tions against the raiders being con
ducted jointly, although each force
would remain within its own terri
tory.
With o10.i00l or more national
guardsmen at the border it would berta
possible to establish the American
catherep i a way to immaked it practically
impossible for raiders to escape if real
co-operation were given by thIre Mexi
cans.
Movement of Troops Continues.
The mobilization by the guard con
tinued at fuill speed. It is certain
there will le no immediate alteration
in the War Department plans. Prob:r
bly a reduction of the border forces
Swould be ordered only after some co
operative plan of action had been
,agreed upon with the Mexican govern
mrent and had been tried out sufficient
ly to leave no doubt as to its practi
cability. In other words, a demonstra
tion of the ability of the Carranza
forces to carry out their part of the
bargain would be required. Whether
such a demonstration murst precede
withdrawal of Gen. Pershing's forces
is not so clear.
Officials believe that the call for the
national guard and the actual despatch
of tle troops to the border was the
impelling influences which induced
Gen. ('arranza to abandon the hostile
attitude taken in his previous notes.
They say the United States holds a
strong argument in favor of peaceful
solution of border ditlieculties as long
as it mainttains an army near the line,
anrid' there seems little probability that
it will be withdrawn until all danger
has passed.
Unqwuestionably, if no new bandit
outlbrealks occur, the national guards
men will be gradually sent back to
their hrnws. It originally was plann1ed
that only a part of the force be used
on me border, the remainder being
(,nt later to relieve regiments which
had put in tlhe requiried timne at active
irvie.. It is possible that [ scihene
wiill le followed later.
"Same Old Bull."
"'Te been reading a lot of Assyrian
history in my Library of the World's
Knowledge in Sixteen Volumes.' " says
tie man who Is devoting one hour
each evening to acquiring information
and culture. "What especially inter
ests me is the fact that almost all the
Pictures of the walls have big carvings
of buldl on them. Seems to me as if
the ancihent Syrians couldn't look in
any direction without seeing a bull.
Wonder why they had them?" "Oh,"
yawns the man who knows everything,
"they serve the same purpose as the
Political posters we paste on our walls.
Samte old bull, you know."--Juda.,
VENUSTIANO CARRANZA
r
Ii
U:·'
Head of the Dc Facto Government
of Mexico.
IOWA GUARDSMEN READ' F To JUMP ON MEXICANS
*1 j'vl. ' ~ ,'/ ý . .'i ý ,' 4 7 . X ~ ~ . ~ ~ , '
LA4 IF~j 2 ~ /1
~i i
f -i
lIB+' l(^\%LL .S. 1101211S' ýi~ i F9ýa ayt1 Y-' ;5"'. U ý;b~i; 'LI 0' !
Oro Mt'i4vr'
C' Aý py "yt. " ý
ýý Y. ý. , .ýý ýk ý" n~a ý,ý'"'te ' S'' tý t~yr'.', 'r'L' ý 4:t " ,
ýw i+ i. Itý` :'F'it.> - Y°t'ý- "ý ":R' <~t`ýý ý +k " 4ý°Wýi , iii ., 'ýýý'rL t'ý,?,ý A'ý'.'.: f` S ý . ý
> +;r r Y :s 14ý ý.ý . ýs 1 .ý.it '. .".'' "ý rY{ý T:ý i k y'ýý
. -1 i.ý""`w ,F,'1,~-'l ý" 'ýý. ;v:ý '-. .. ''. .ý..J ý yýfý.' ý ýAe `Sp
'drw:'S~hA:.w.Ai rM~lA1"ý".: : ý. .__i. : ý. . n~,..ýG..........wv-.:. .. .............. .. .. ....
l l '" t ~ l t l - n ' ý :i ',' " t \t' i ' , ., " t i , . t' . ; t . ý (
,.I1 t. ý 10 1 \1u N llq :I kjL1l li i
liltr
ted i ·'NRAL R'VI[NU[
SBILL INTRODUCED
its,j
eas MEAS1URE DESIGNED TO PRO
no DUCE $210,000,000 IN SUR-TAXES
be ON INCOMES.
Sto
3te. Washington.--A general revenue
tits hb. designed to produce about. $210.
ýen.
en. .00~0 from irn(rea. e, in sur-taxe. on
e, iwcomes and special taxes on inher
be. itances and war munition plants vwas;
ion 1ntroduced in the House by I)emo
be eratic Leader Kitchin. It carries ai
[pu. ~'Avision creatinrcg a non-partisan coml
f'usion and an anti-dumping clause,
low proposes abolishing stamp taxes
,rtiiqnari schedules A and B of
the house by a special rule.
tne Embargo on Raw Hides.
Washington. - Secretary Lansing
the rromised a committee representing
ra- branches of the shoe and leather in
dustries he would endeavor to have
lifted the embrazgo placed upon raw
ree
hides by Russia and other European
countries. The committee tol( Mr.
nal Lansing that solely because of the em
be bargoes shoes have already been ad
can vanced an average of $1 a pair and
lly that the prices are likely to go higher.
'eal
exi- Consulate Destroyed.
Eagle Pass. Tex.--The United States
consulate at Torreon. Mex., was de
on- molished by a mob of 3,000 civilians
alin led by the mayor and a ('arranza army
band, according to American refugees.'
ion
The refugees said the people were,
attending a bull light when ('arranza
troops forced them to join an anti:
co
American demonstration.
een
,rn
nt- Defense Act in Force.
cti- Chicago.-Recruiting for the regu-.
lar army was stimulated by the re
tra j ceipt by Captain Franklin R. Kenney,
in charge of recruiting in the Chicago
he district, of advices from the War De-.
e partment that the national defense act]
is in force and thatrecruits from IbN
ces to 21 years of age may be accepted
t without parental consent.
.tch
the Taft On Preparedness.
New York.-The United States won
iced ts war with Spain because its adver
tile sary "was the only nation of the earth
tfi. less prepared than we were," accord
a ing to William H. Taft, who deliveredaI
an address here. lie declared pre
ong paredness Is a moial obligation upon
the country.
hat
ger 300 Would Be Aviators.
Idit New York.-Maj. C. F. Hartman of
rds- the United States Signal Service, who
To is supervising the mobilization of civ
bd thlian and national guard aviators, has
sed received from officials of the Aero
Club of America a list of men ready
ici to enter the aviation service. At least
e 300 officers of the national guard have
me asked for transfor to aviation duty.
Racial Troops Hurtful.
New York.-Mlayor Mitchel objects
to the organization of a regimenet of
Ian troops to be composed c(clusivilY of
d's citizens of German birth. lhe neh'
ys public a letter in reply to thel sti::
gestion of a .erman bnat :t a 0 ,
ion iment Ibe orgEnlized. Tb- tIiyor w'o
:er that h- I,,lii - it would i, l] rfu- ll
the to draw racial liaies in Aenwrican nulii
tary affairs.
in American Soldier Killed.
tl Washin ton.--On9 Anu'rian soldier
,was killed and another woundled in an
Sengagement between United States
11. marines and and Santo Domingo reb
els. The rebel losses were not given.
QUiELT 6W
AS TOOPS ARiiiE
INDEPENDENCE DAY PASSES
PEACEABLY ON BOTH SIDES
-GUARDSMEN APPORTIONED.
ARMY WILL BE CHANGEABLE
All Guardsman Stationed at Strateg.c
Points in Such Manner as to Make
Rapid Move in Any One Gen
eral Direction.
San Antonio, Texas.-While Gen.
IFunston and his statl were worlin;
out the details of placing all 1'.:e
troops, both regular and guardsumen.
on a tactical busis. a close scrutiny
of miovVments nl S across the ii:terliationl
al line was kept by border command
ers. It was feared lthatl the celebra
Sion :of Inldepepndence Day in borderi
tom \s Ilmight give rise to some Inci
d' nit capable of growing into a clash
,with IMexicans, but reports from all;
luarters indicated comparative quiet.l
soime excitn;ellnt was caused here
during the Fourth of .July parade v' hen
Jesus Alamanso, a Mexican, was over
powered by the crowd. Alainanao
made an insulting gesture when that
section of the parade headed by the
acting mayor passed. Some one cried
that a "Mexican had insulted the
e flag," and only the arrival of police
a saved Alamanso from injury. eth was
r Itaken to police headquarters and laterr
Ireleased.
The big inovelent of guardsmen to
'ward the border continutd unabated.
.1 One of Maine's regiments of infantry
passed through here oni its station in
, li Laredo district, and more Missou
j ri troops reached Laredo, passing
through here. The heavy New York
-t movement to the Brownsville district!
S was continued, the first squadron of'
d cavalry and the second battalion of
artillery from that state going through
here. When all the troops are sta
tioned. New York will have a repre-1
a: sentation on the border of about
22,000.
h Little was known here of the troops.
I- that are being sent to El Paso and!
iI stations west of there, but it is known
that before the War Iepartment
n ad(opted G(;n. Funston' ' suggest ion ti1
dlivid tihe southern departell int into
threeit coioniands he and his staff had
worked out a station list with the idea
oif providlijn adeqtualt forces so far asi
pl ossihi' for all districts from whichll
toen ni chit to' dra\\ ni for general opera
t,:IS it M1exico. \When th two 'n
pIll 1f tl" evidil'; a ai ýhl army forlna- I
t pil -ilfla e c urg the w rr!: 1. t
t'. ,a,,st t1hlie i!I 2ld al':oidy Ih -'"
. 1 0 1." l ow 14 : , ,
i -i , cew ((l:il:llanllilzr,
o i. rl is su vi,,d -- a o
Wl ercse::t U. S.
Aviat'r hi(leVl E/ Fat.
(died. lie was Io('I at Ihictlester, N.
- y. He is survivwd hy a bride of I1) i
jdays. it
AuA!N CRiSS [INE
RETUENING TO AMEHRCAN SIDE
AFTER SEVERAL HOURS HUNT
-NO CLASH WITH CARRANZA.
-S
* Iah'ins. 'IT'x:i . -- A tie!riian *
* troope. v:hich c'rc,:,sed :i, llto *
E G(rande into Mexico near Fort *
* il:ie.c ek in pur~ uit of Mexican *
traiders, recr: '.,i t lie rive-r, the *
* trail hivinlg I i: h" lt. aicording *
c * t a rport r,'( ,iN d' here. Three *
* troop: of ca\alry uader ('apt. Le- *
r* ry Jltit t pI ;,i d ' i- t M1exi- *
* cans lwho raided tie 'li post at a
* Fort Hanco.!. an.d sV5lrd nilh *
en. * * * * * * * * * * * *
its
: ',-an A tolio.- -A.n tritcan troopers
'II, are ngaini across tlh P.io (Grande,
ny; bandit chiasing. ('apt. It roy !ý:t imlie.
In- in co tniian id at l'a l)(,\ . Texas. crossed
id-i the river with a de't:oahlim.nt of his
ra- troops of the Eighthl Cavalry. in pur
er, suit of eight Mexicans whlo raided
ci- near IFo'S lancock and ran off a numt
slI her of cattle.
all; Gen. Funstolo stated that unless El
et. tinge found a hot trail and had good
re prospects of coming up with the ma*
:n raudehrs lie would rieturn to the Ameri
er- can side. lie said it was not the in
so tention that this little expedition
iat should remain long on Mexican soil.
he Ihitiige had orders frontm rig.-Gen.
ed hell to hbe careful to avoid contact with
lie ('arranzista soldiers.
ce ('Capt. Eltinge crossed the Rio
-as Grande. picked upont the trail and fol
er, lowed it a short dis!ance, ibut found
that it led him back toward the river
to- at a point lower down. lie was unable
d. to discover an indication by that time
rV as to the location of the bandits and
in' recrossed to the American side. Capt.
)u- Eltinge's report made no mention of
ng etncountering any Mexican troops.
rk. All reports received at Gen. Fun
ict ston's headquarters indicated nothing
of, more exciting along the international
of line than the exchange of shots be.
gi tween sentries at Nogales. Apparent
ta-! by no early offensive by the concenr
re- trated forces of the Mexicans in front
tut of Gen. Pershing's positions was con
temiplated.
ps All officers commanding troops
nd! along the 1.700 miles of border have
'n been cautioned to avoid clashes with
nt the Mexican troops- that fac' them, but
to the recurrence of such incidenls as that
to at Notahles has ca:used staff offlicers to
ad fear t hat an1 Incident tnay occur at
en any tilne tlhat may atrv'', as the basis
asi for fuirilier complex!ng a si'uation al
el re.ady had.
ra
n- Shackleton Again Fails.
vMi': v ,.' , . I', . t, ,;' ,Sir
a- Ernest Shalc,.lton, in a dispatch to
I:. the Britishi m1inist l 'ir ihere. reported his
' return to Port Stanltey, after having
: fai!, t let:i.: . :'f heatvy ic.e conditions,
' to rest iti ml.e nain body of his Ant
'- arctiic ex.,,lit ion, l-ft on Elephant
lsland.
Killed by Street Car.
tet i,1ic- -:l' "nt , :t '2 yu-arc old, was
,',ut: Lv : cte; (7 a ,i in :aantly
] i~lli, !"{" w {,: ,l a m * , " , ;F it h
Texas Capital Guarded.
""aA.t'n, T,-a h ,cen
,r. doi blcd ;at the stat, ",'- .i'- l ,iilt in es
P. hoca(.Rse of the M-xicntln sitnlation, it
N.was ann(luncr-l.. Orders w,,er- issued
i0to search all siSlicious Mexicans ei
,tering the buildings.
