VOL. 4 J
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 191b.
J
MOST ENJOYABLE
OCCASION FOR ALL
Splendid Attendance and Open-Hearted
Hospitality, With Much Enjoy
ment, Make Picnic Big Succes
The Farmers' Picnic in the beauti
ful grove near Unity school house,
was certainly one of the most pleas
intr and satisfying Fourth of .lu)y ob
servances that was held in St. Fran-
cois county. It was practically just
a neighborhood gathering, where near
ly all were acquainted, which made it
all the more enjoyable for those who
were not generally known, as it af
forded their friends pleasure to see
that they became acquainted. It seem
ed more like a great family reunion,
there being about l,000people pres
ent. The prepared program opened near
the noon hour by the reading of the
Declaration of Independence by T. B.
Chandler, who was introduced by J.
W. Buck. Mr. Chandler prefaced his
reading with a few appropriate re
marks, indicating that he was a gen
eral utility man, always ready to meet
and to successfully cope with any arid
every emergency that might arise.
That splendid document, usually con
sidered rather "dry", seemed to be re
plete with renewed interest, and was
listened to throughout with the
greatest interest. Prof. Loes and sis
ter, singers at the Burke-Hobbs re
vival, then rendered one of their splen
did songs, which the people have
grown to love.
Dinner was then announced, and it
was here that the true hospitality of
the many, who were equipped with
well-filled baskets of good things to
eat, shone forth and spoke volumes for
the warmth of their welcome to their
home community. The writer fortun
ately fell into the hands of that big
hearted patriot, T. B. Chandler, and
his estimable wife, for the dinner hour,
and never before did we enjoy more
fully the abundance of good things
that was forced onto us. We simply
had to eat our way out. But the same
hospitality accorded us was also forc
ed on all those who passed that way.
After dinner there was more speak
ing by Hon. Fred Essen of St. Louis,
and the Prosecuting Attorney of St.
Louis County, both of whom spoke on
the inestimable value of good roads.,
and volunteered assistance to Si.
Francois county whenever this county
got ready to take up the matter of a
bond issue for that purpose. The com
mittee tried to get them to accept
money for their expenses in coming,
but they also demonstrated that they
had come simply for the good they
might do the cause of good roads, and
positively refused to accept expense
money.
Then Prof, and Miss Loes again re
sponded to calls with other songs ap
Had to Flee Post
The American Consulate mentioned
below by the Springfield (Mo.) Re
publican, is a son of Dr. J. W. and
Mrs. Ella Sebastian Williams, former
ly of Farmington:
"American Consular Agent C. A.
Williams, who, with his wife, was
forced to flee the American consulate
at Torreon, Mexico, on account of the
outrages perpetrated there by the
Mexicans and because of the threats
against the American representatives,
received official confirmation from
border sources of the destruction of
the consulate at Torreon. Mr. and
Mrs. Williams are guests at the home
of the former s parents, Dr. and Mrs.
J. W. Williams, 803 South Florence
street. They came to Springfield sev
eral weeks ago.
"All the furnishings of the Wil
liams apartments at the consulate are
supposed to have been destroyed along
with a number of personal effects.
"Consular Agent Williams persuad
ed many Americans to leave Torreon
at the same time he departed with his
wife. He will not return to that place
until he is called by Government of
ficials or until peace is restored.
LICENSED TO MARRY
June 29th. R. H. Poston and Vir
ginia Waring of Flat River.
30th, Noah Sumpter and Alice Le
high of Lead wood.
July 1st, Joe Koen and Bertha Lan
ders of Esther.
1st, T. Wililams and Florence Rob
inson of Desloge.
1st, E. Lewis Ketcherside of Cant
well, and Lena M. Hart of St. Fran
cois. 3d, Samuel Taylor and Rosie Fah
child of Frankclay.
3d. Charles L. Lane and Carmen E.
Underwood of Desloge.
4th, W. H. Blunt and Maud Calvert
4th, Thomas Glore of Frankclay ;
ami Ponrl Reed of Leadwood.
6th, Leonard Jones of Carterville
and Zoe Pratte of Bonne Terre.
DIED FROM OPERATION
Mi . and Mrs. P. P. Gruner took their
little four-year-old son to a hospital
in St. Louis last Monday, where an
operation was performed for appen
dicitis and locked bowels. The little
follow died about an hour after the
operation. The body was brought
home Tuesday and laid at rest in the
Doe Run cemetery Wodnesday. The
parents have the sympathy of many
itiecdi in their sad- bereavement.
propriate to the occasion, one of
which had that morning been written
by Prof Loes especially for the occa
sion, which follows:
Follow the Crodws to the Picnic
There's a time of the year that is
welcomed
By the babies and grand-daddies
gray;
'Tis the time when we go to the Pic
nic, To be happy and cool for a day.
What a jolly good time we experience,
As with sweethearts, relations and
friends,
'Round the food-laden tables we
gather,
And we eat till our hunger expends.
Then it is that the females of forty
Smile and play as if sixteen again;
And the boys with their shouting
and romping,
Make their daddies forget they are
men.
Chorus.
0 come, come, come, come,
Follow the crowds to the picnic,
To the grove where the trees low
ly bend;
With enough for three meals fill your
basket,
And bring plenty of money to spend.
Revs. Burke and Hobbs then took
charge of the program, Rev. Burke
making a most interesting, edifying
and patriotic address, which held the
closest attention to his hearers from
first to last. The essence of his talk
was that the truly great and patriotic
wcie those who fought zealously for
the Lord, rather than to butcher his
fellow-man. He was followed by
Rev. Hobbs, who brought out addi
tional points along the same lines of
thought. Presiding Elder H. P.
Crowe, of the M. E. Church, South,
followed with a few happy remarks,
"to fill in with", as he expressed it,
while Prof, and Miss horn were being
escorted to the stand for a closing
song, their inspiring music having
made them indispensable, no matter
how entertaining the balance of the
program may have been.
The remainder of the afternoon
passed quickly with sack races, foot
races, in which the preachers partici
pated, and in which Rev. Cunning
ham of the Baptist Church proved him
self to be a real sprinter. All in all,
it was a most enjoyable day for all
present. Even the candidates, of
whom there were many present, ap
peared to thoroughly enjoy themselves.
Mr. Robb Confident
Mr. Robb stopped over in Farming
ton yesterday from Fredericktown.
He says he spent three days in Madi
son county and attended three cele
brations at Marquand, Frederick
town and Mine La Motte on the
Fourth, making speeches at the first
two. Last week he made a canvass of
Bollinger. Mr. Robb reports that he
met a large number of the Democrats
in these counties, and is very much en
couraged with the situation in his
campaign for the Democratic nomina
tion for Congress. By the assurances
of support which he received in these
counties and is receiving throughout
the district, he thinks his chances for
the nomination have grown steadily
and feels reasonably sure of success.
He savs he will continue his campaign
actively until August 1st, and by that
time will have thoroughly covered the
district.
Another Bunch
of Live Ones
i:. , several renewal subscrio
lions to The Times the past week, the
following splendid company of new
subscribers have been received: M. r
Griffin and Mis. Clyde Thomason of
Farmington, J. A. Ballard of Marion,
I... Mrs. A. L. Rider of Chautauqua
111., Mrs. L. M. Settle of Chandler,
Okla.; James Straughan, Joe BJStes
Tom Perryman, John O'Sullivan, P. P
German, John Elsen, Waller Bremen,
J. H. Huff, E. D. Sizemore, Roy Grun
er, John Boswell, Jack Riser of Doe
Run; T. VI Pigg, Henry Pratt, Dock
Doe, Win. Horn, T. O'Sullivan, Oscar
Murphy, C R. Foyles, J. D. Morris,
W. G. Benham, Frank Sigman, Wm.
Ashburn, A. F. AuBuchon, Adrian
AuBuchon, Sidney McCarty, Allen
McHenry, Wm. Cruncleton, J. T. Cov
ington and F. H. Cole, Bonne Terre;
Francis AuBuchon, French Village.
Several members of the State
Board of Charities and Corrections
arrived here Wednesday evening and
yesterday morning, and are now on
duty at Hospital No. 4, where they
have been directed to make a thorough
and searching investigation of the of
ficers and employes of that institu
tion, as well as the Board of Managers,
in order that equal and exact justice
may be meted out to all, and to clear
up all taints, if any such there may be,
about which there have recently been
so many rumors.
To Voters of St.
Francois County
Do the voters of St. Francois Coun
ty want law enforced? The county
was voted dry by nearly 1,000. votes
and the Local Option law was adopt
ed. Will the citizens of the county,
wet or dry, who are law abiding, per
mit a handful of lawless men at El
vins and Bonne Terre to defy the ex
pressed will of the people and the law
by the illegal sale of liquor?
These men who are doing this are
neither Democrats nor Republicans in
principle but simply anarchists of the
worst type and the law treats them
as such and classes them with horse
thieves, burglars and other criminals.
Mr. Voter, it is your right to de
mand that the Prosecuting Attorney
have the co-operation of the Sheriff
and his Deputies, and that the Sher
iff have the co-operation of the Prose
cuting Attorney by warrants in the
suppression of the blind tiger and
gambling joints. A few raids will
dean up the county and put an end
to the disgraceful and demoralizing
conditions that now exist' at Bonne
Terre and Elvins.
Mr. Voter, we appeal to you to find
out where the failure is and urge you
to nominate men who will be true to
their oaths of office in the enforcement
of the law. The Prosecuting Attor
ney, the Sheriff and his Deputies and
the Constable of each township work
ing together can put the local option
law on the same plane that other laws
are, and it is your right to ask these"
candidates if they will do it and de
mand that they do it.
MORSE H. MARKLEY,
Chairman Ways and Means Commit
tee, St.. Francois Co. Civic League.
July 1, 1916.
Storm Arrived on
Schedule Time
The customary July 4th storm ar
rived a little ahead of time this year
in this community, coming on the eve- i
ning of the 3rd for which the people j
of this locality felt very thankful. It 1
broke up the intense heat that had
been prevailing for sevoral days, elim
inated the humidity in the atmosphere, i
laid the dust, and made the 4lh a !
reallv ideal day for the people to get ,
out and enjoy themselves at the va-
nous picnics, or go wherever they ue
sired, without braving the intense
heat.
The storm broke in Farmington a
little before six o'clock Monday eve
ning with a terrific wind, coming from
the northwest, which for a time close
ly resembled cyclonic propensities,
coming with great velocity and with
twistings and turnings, the wind
continued with great velocity for a
time even after the rain began to
come down in torrents, spreading the
deluge in perfect sheets of water over
the earths surface, finally the winu
eased down, but the rain continued
for some time, until there was a heavy
precipitation, being just what was
needed to cool and purify the atmo
sphere, and dissipating the oppressive
humidity that was Decommg almost,
unbearable.
The storm was just what was need
ed to hearten the people to real en
joyment of the Glorious Fourth, and
it was a day truly enjoyed in tms
community.
JACKSON TO CELEBRATE
CENTENNIAL AUGUST 17, 18, 19
Louis Houck, attorney, railroad
builder, historian and author of a his
tory of Southeast Missouri, will be
asked to deliver an address at the
combined Jackson centennial jubilee
and home comers' week next August.
Plans for the joint celebration were
outlined at a meeting of the Jackson
Home Comers' Committee Monday
night at Jackson, and several com
mittees were named to make detailed
arrangements for the various parts
of the affair.
Mr. Houck, as both a history maker
and a history chronicler, was selected
as the man to be asked to deliver the
address of honor at the celebration.
Mr. Houck virtually has watched
Jackson grow during the last half
century as well as all Southeast Mis
souri. Probably no other man in the Stale
has the intimate knowledge of the his
tory of this part of Missouri thut Mr.
Houck possesses and for that reason
the request that he deliver an address
will become specially urgent.
Jackson will be 100 years" old and
the centennial will be celebrated with
many unique pageant features as well
as addresses. The affair will be neia
August 17, 18 and 19.
One of the features of the conten
nial celebration will be a parade of
old vehicles. Efforts will be made to
have each kind of vehicle that ever has
passed through the streets of the town
represented in the pageant. The ox
en drawn wain, for even as late as 40
year ago, many of the farmers in this
county used oxen for plowing and
general hauling purposes, will be
brought forth for the parade nnd ev
ery step up to the modern high-powered
automobiles will be procured.
The first courthouse in Jackson was
Opened in 1860 and up to that time
most of the legal work was done in
the Cape. Cape Girardeau Tribune.
Naive Williams, son of Geo, K.
Williams, returned the first of the
week from the new mining field near
Miami, Okla. He reports the recent
discovery of several splendid addition
al ore bodies. It seems that Farming
ton boys are playing particularly well
in that splendid mineral field.
The Wealthiest
Woman Passes
Mrs. Hatty Green, whose chief rep
utation was that she was the world's
wealthiest woman, died in New York
last Mojiday at the advanced age of
eighty years. She was notorious for
her parsimony, and if she ever did a
charitable art the world is ignorant of
the fact. She was born rich, and at
the age of 29 inherited $10,000,000,
which she increased by speculation
and native shrewdness. Her chief
ambition seems to have been to be
known as the richest woman, and this
ambition she realized. As a young
woman she is said at one time to have
been a belle in New York and accord
ing to her own stories "often danced
the whole night through", but even
then she lived in a boarding house and
was so saving that rather than pay
a cabfare she would pull a pair of
heavy woolen stockings over her sb,oes
and walk through the snow to parties.
Her maiden name was Hettie Rob
inson, and in 1867 she married Ed
ward H. Green, who was then Unit
ed States Consul General at Manila
and had made a fortune in the silk
trade, but before the wedding day she
had an agreement drawn up and signed
to the effect that her fortune should
never be drawn on to meet her hus
band's debts or any of their joint ex
penses. She managed her own finan
cial affairs, and old Wall Street men
have told many stories of her close
ness. Her income is said to have been
$3,000,000 a year, but she lived nig
gardly and was reputed to be a sys
tematic tax dodger. It goes without
saying that she never was intensely
religious, but it is said she was a fre
quent attendant at Quaker meetings,
anil a few years ago was baptized in
the Episcopal church. She leaves a
married daughter and one Ron, Ed-
waid Howland Green, President tf
the Texas Midland Railroad and a fac
tor in many other interests. In late
yearn he largely assumed the manage
ment ol lii: mother's property.
Revival Meeting
on the Increase
Every day of the Burke-Hobbs Un
ion Tabernacle Campaign, now in its
third week, brings to pass new mat
ters of interest and progressive
aehievdhients.
Judging from the large crowds that
fill thVbig meeting house, the people
of Farmington arc realizing that
something worth while is taking place
for the benefit of this city and county.
The greatest work in the world is
getting men and women to surrender
their lives to God, and making a com
munity a better place to live in. Such
is the work that Burke and Hobbs
and their helpers are striving to do
here in the effort now in progress.
The sanguine effects of the revival
have long been evident. The churches
of Farmington will get out of the
campaign just according to what the
pastors and the people put into it.
Last Sunday was a big day in the co
operating churches. The Sunday
Schools reported record attendances
and the three big tabernacle meetings
were full of the old time power that
Steve Burke speaks about so mucn
and believes in preaching by.
Mr. Loes and his talented sister are
doing their'best to make the musical
department of the services worth
while, and no one dares say they are
falling short in their effort.
Rev. Hobbs has taught the people
a new chorus, entitled "Living on the
Shore", and with his pleasing person
ality he has lodged that little strain
in the hearts of hundreds, and they
sing it better every time it is an
nounced. Have you learned it yet?
Rev. Burke is as usual uncompro
mising in his stand for Christ as the
Savior of the world, the church as the
place for every man and woman who
believes in righteousness and decency,
the Bible as God's word, and other
cardinal principles that mean a bet
ter Farmington and a cleaner munici
pality. Souls are being saved every night
and among them are many whose step
heavenward is indicative of more to
follow, and for whose conversion
friends are praying. If you believo
in right, put your shoulder to the
wheel and help boost the campaign
for a clean sweep for God and his
people.
UNNECESSARY NOISE
Some of the Southeast papers arc
complaining of unnecessary noises at
nights in their town, on the streets
and by kids in the movie theatres, the
former by automobiles unnecessarily
honking at late hours, keeping people
awake. Some complaint ha3 been
made in Farmington of the night and
very early morning honking of autos.
Of course, signals are necessary at
corners, crossings and curves in the
road, but honkings to call people out
of their houses at early and late hours,
disturbing everybody in the near
neighborhood, and other unnecessary
noises of that kind might b2 avoided.
Mrs. W. A. Gardner entertained a
few friends Friday afternoon in hon
or of her two sisters, Mrs. Shelton of
Alabama and Mrs. Winston of Wash
ington, who came here for Miss Nan
Gardner's wedding. The guests were
Misses S. V. Beeson, Alice Cayce and
Helen Chenault, Mrs. Mary Wherry.
Mrs. Will Fleming, Mrs. J H. Jones,
Mrs. W. W. Waters and Mrs. 0. W.
Bleeck. The afternoon was verv enjoyable
EXCEPTIONAL CONDITION
OF STATE HOSPITAL NO. 4
Facts and Figures Showing Condition
of Institution on Eve of Searching
Investigation by State Board
On the eve of ihe taking up of a
thorough investigation of affairs of
State Hospital No. 4, by the State
Board of Charities and Corrections,
which began yesterday morning, a
Times reporter visited that institu
tion Wednesday morning for the pur
pose of securing all possible informa
tion in regard to the management and
financial condition of that institution,
under its present management, in or
der that Times readers may know, as
nearly as possible, what the real con
dition of that institution is, that all
the hue and cry for an invesigation of
its affairs should be made.
The Times man had no difficulty in
securing the information sought. In
fact, the management seemed pleased
to furnish him with all possible data
desired, to show just how the financial
affairs of the hospital had been man
aged during the administration of
Dr. G. E. Scrutchfield, who will have
completed his third year in that posi
tion next month. In the first place
we found that the present Superin
tendent has already served longer in
that position than did any of his pre
decessors, by about a year. We also
found that the financial condition of
the hospital is in far better condition
than it ever before has been, and that
it has not, for the past two years, re
ceived any State appropriation. In
fact, the last appropriation of $25,
000, made by the Legislature nearly
three years ago, still remains un
touched in the State Treasury. This
is the reason there have been no fur
ther appropriations for its mainte
nance. In fact. State Hospital No. 1
has been absolutely self-sustaining
practically during the past three years.
The books on Wednesday morning
disclosed the following financial con
dition Jt Hospital No. 4;
In State Treasury $21,001.22
In Local Treasury 204.U."
Outstanding Accounts $10,373.59
Total $37,678.86
Awtho., (.int worthy of notice in
connection with the present manage
ment, is the fact that it has never
made a single bad account, but every
cent due the institution has boen col
lected, so that the outstanding ac
counts arc considered perfectly good.
The above total therefore, represents
the exact amount that the institution
is now to the good, without any recent
State appropriation. There is not a
cent of outstanding indebtedness
ugainst the institution, except the
June accounts, which have not yet
been verified and allowed. There is
approximately $42,000 yet to be bill
ed for the remainder of 1918.
The Times reporter also interviewed
Bolt of Lightning
Kills Henry Welty
Henry Welty, an old and respected
citizen, was killed about 3 o'clock last
Monday afternoon, July 3rd, while
standing near a window in the dining
room of his home, about four miles
east of Farmington. Miss Luella
Welty, an adopted daughter, and his
little grandchild were standing near
him, but fortunately' received no in
jury. It is supposed that the bolt
struck a stovepipe that protruded
through the roof and followed the
wires supporting the pipe and crashed
through the window frame, the win
dow being closed. He fell face down
ward, and Miss Lulu ran into nnother
room and told Mrs. Welty what had
happened. She went into the dining
room, turned Mr. Welty over, face up.
He opened his eyes and looked at her
but couldn't speak, and after two or
three gasps expired. An examination
of his body afterwards by Dr. Eugas
disclosed a blotch about the size of a
quarter just over the heart, but no
other marks.
Mr. Welty was born July 2R, 1862,
in this county, where he had lived all
his life, and at the time of his death
was 63 years, 11 months and 25 days
old. He leaves his wife, one daughter,
Mrs. Ludy Ebrecht, und an adopted
daughter, Miss Luella Welty, to
mourn his sudden death, to whom the
sympathy of all who know them is ex
tended. Mr. Welty was a man of very
! religious nature and a close reader of
the Bible. He was at one time a de
voted member of the Christian Church,
but some years ago became an earnest
believer in the doctrine of the Sev
enth Day Adventists, and died in that
faith. Funeral services were conduct
ed Friday by Rev. J. M. Bailey, pas
tor of the Farmington Christian
Church, after which the body was laid
at rest in the K. of P. Cemetery.
DEATH OF MRS MARVIN HORN
Mrs. Marvin Horn died last Friday
ight at her home near Hazel Run
nd her body was laid at rest last Sun
'ay at Marvin Chapel after funeral
ervices. Besidas her husband she
eaves six children to mourn their far
sparable loss, and they have the deep
vmuathy of many friends in their sor
owful bereavement. Mrs. Horn was
i daughter of the late T. J. Buckner.
R. B. Gillespie, the efficient farm
boss, and learned from him that the
dairy herd has been practically dou
bled under the present management,
while the milk and butter supply has
been more than doubled, all of which
is used in the institution. There are
now 42 fine Holstein cows being
milked, giving a total of 120 gallons
of milk daily. By September 29th,
that number will be increased to 55
milk cows. There are also 29 one- and
two-year old heifers, and 12 heifer
calves. There are seven head of fine
mules, and eight head of horses. Two
120-ton silos have also recently been
built. 80 tons of fine timothy hay is
still in the barns from last year, and
the harvesting of 60 tons of excellent
clover has just been finished, off of
26 acres, which is a record seldom
equalled.
The institution owns 392 acres of
land, and rents 80 acres, the produc
tivity of which, Mr. Gillespie asserts,
is being rapidly increased. They pro
duce practically all the vegetables,
grain and hay that is consumed by the
institution, besides having a great
surplus of some products on hand. For
instance, the great increase in the
milk and butter supply is all used in
the institution, though there are but
105 more patients therein than a year
ago. A year ago there were 572 pa
tients; on Wednesday of this week
there were 077. Taking this as an in
dication, there is no sign of any di
minishment in the food supply to the
patients, notwithstanding the most
unusual financial record that has been
made under the present management..
We neglected to state that cholera
recently took all the hogs, but an
other carload In.- already been bought
and paid for, to consume the slops and
what, without them, would be waste.
If the present management is inef
ficient in any way, it certainly can
not be in the way of financial matters.
From The Times' findings, the one
thing that might react to its discredit,
from a business standpoint, is that it
stretches a dollar too far. We are in
clined to believe that if Dr. Scrutch
ticld has nwut- -mistakes-us Super
intendent of State Hospital No. 4, they
must be found in some other depart
ment than the business end. He may
have been undiplomatic at times; per
haps harsh or seemingly overbearing.
But he evidently threw himself en
tirely into the personal niamwrenrmt
and conduct of that institution, und it
is not improbable that he has often
pursued an unpopular course. But
the entire visible appearances of the
institution is a splendid recommenda
tion of the hand at the helm. Every
building and cottage of which it is
composed more nearly resembles a
high-priced private sanitarium than
the ordinary State Hospital.
Desire to Please
General Public
Fred Isenman, the urbane and ac
commodating agent of the electric
line in this city, made The Times of
fice an appreciated call Wednesday
to explain the difficulties his com
pany has been laboring under, es
pecially in regard to always making
close connections with the Iron Moun
tain trains at DeLassus for this city,
which this paper has criticised two
or three times recently.
He explained that on account of
their schedule over their entire line
they were unable to make close con
nections when the Iron Mountain
train from the north was more than
30 minutes late. He stated, however,
that hereafter their car would wait
until 12:35 p. m. on the train sched
uled to arrive there at 12:26, and
that if they were informed by the
Iron Mountain officials that the train
would arrive by 1 o'clock, or before,
that they would send a car out from
Farmington to make immediato con
nection. If the Iron Mountain train
is delayed beyond 1 o'clock then a
brief delay would be unavoidable, ow
ing to their Flat River connections.
Such an arrangement would cer
tainly be a very great improvement,
and The Times is pleased to know
that absolutely no element of contra
riness on the part of the electric line
has entered into the frequent poor
connections of late. Hereafter there
will be some responsibility on the
part of the Iron Mountain branch at
DeLassus in bringing about better
connections at that point, and we
trust that they will attend well to
their part of it, to the end that there
will be no just cause for further cri
ticism of the DeLassus connections.
LIBRARY NEWS
Friends of the Farmington Free Li
brary are very much grateful at its
growth, the number of books on hand
being over 500. The St. Louis friends
of Miss Susan V. Beeson have been
particularly generous in sending
books, as recently at least 200 books
have been received from them. These
include not only English boots, but
there are a number of both French
and German books.
