52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916.
NUMBER 10.
1
June Weather.
I.iko that of litir,, June, WIG,
wan a cool Juno, the temperature be
Ins live degrees below tl.e norii.iil fov
the month, while that of June, Hilfi,
was fix degrees below the normal.
In June, 1 !!.",, wo had C.T5 Inches of
rnln, while In June, HUG, wc had 4.70
inches only .SO nliove the normal.
The heaviest 24-hour fall In June,
year ago, was 2.10 Inches on the Ttli,
while this year, it n 2.50 Inches on
the 2U.1.
On the 1!U5, the Missouri river
Mas within a foot of the danger line.
This year It was only in n kooI stage
of water.
The greater portion of the first half
of the month, wraps ami bed romforts
nnil .piHts were used, and wele com
fortalilc to sleep untlor. and Hies were
kindled at times .bring the week of
the nth and I3th.
Wind storms did slight damoKe in
the lllgelnw section nnd In Liberty
township, June !t-4.
The extremes for the month of
June, lulu, wcici
Max.
22 Sit
J:i 811
2! 87
2'.i 2
:io ui
...
I
(....
17
Mln.
, ro
a:.
, ic,
, 42
,.r.i
Mean maximum, 77; mean mini
mum, ft,: mean, d,
linlufal for June, 4.70. Greatest In
twenty-four hours, 2.60 on the 2.'ld.
While it Is very well to celebrate
centennlnls, it Is to lie hoped that the
weather man will not go mi far as to
make the coming summer a tepetitlon
of that of lSlfi. It may or may not bo
significant that Pctrogrnd In Mny re
ports a heavy snow. Up to June of
that Inclement year, according to a
current newspaper article, the weath
er was variable but not muikeilly dlir
errnt from Hint of previous years. In
June old Mamma Nature ret out to
establish n new record for gelid sum
mers. The cold wave which started
Just a hundred years ago spread to a
large part of the United States and
Canada. Nor was the geneial In
clemency of that epochal year con
lined to Noitli Aniciicn. It wus the
roldest summer in Europe as well as
on this side of the Atlantic.
Enrly In June n hllzznid raged over
n part of New York, New England
and Canada, the snowfall reaching a
depth of from seven to twelve Inches
In lower Ca,mi!a, Ilulno and VoMiiont.
The lillr.zntd extended to the interior
of New Yolk and to Massachusetts,
and there were light snowfalls ns far
south as Pennsylvania. Vermont and
the nd'arcnt sections of Canada nrd
New Wk suffered the most. In the
middle of June there was another
heavy snowfutl. On the 1.7th of June,
n Vermont farmer went out to get his
Hock of sheep in the pasture, but the
snowstorm became so severe that he
was lost, and it was not until three
days later that lie was found on the
side of a hill, both feet frozen and
unable to move,
July was not much of an Improve
ment on June. On the Mil of July Ice
of the thickness of window gla
formed throughout New York and In
parts of Pennsylvania, while in Can
ada the ice was much thicker. August
was even worse than July, and neither
month had many days when It was
even comfortably worm. In England
there was a light snowfall In August,
not fnr from London.
The first two weeks of September
were mild and balmy, with a few dnys
really hot, but then the weather
changed and winter set In. In Eng.
land 1810 was known as the year
without a summer, and the description
was very nearly true.
Scientists and theologians vied with
each other in seeking explanations of
the unusual weather. Ily some It was
hchl that the end of the world was ap
proaching and a great many feared
that the. sun was cooling nIT. In 1817,
however, Old Sol was back on the job
with all his customary vigor, and the
superstitious fears were relieved.
from the house, by n young man, W. M, Collin Succumb. In ln)iiric.
named Griffey. There a coulee, or T1C hijurlc received by Worthy
sort of ravine running through the m. C()llni rnlv 1mI ,n,l , lm ,..
homestead, and It was near tills on a r il.-nt In the bad InmU terminated
kind of ridge where the remains I ty f.itnlly nt noon. Tiiisdry. Funeral
They were nboul twenty fret from .,,rvr(I. p. ,, flom t, ,es,lonc.
his saw nud nx. wheie lie had been ,. following tiii. i wli-ctcl by l!ev.
mnklng po.ts, the nx sticking in n r. c. Osborne, of SmttOiluif, assisted
tree. Ids gloves were nenrby, on.l near , v. II. I'. rnrinr. of this city, and
his lift hand lay nn empty Colt's a: ,,.n,n,,, internal In the
w.i mm err, mi ji no r'M Aiveliil "u,"'1m",r revolver, mi n.nie.1 ami con- -.cottshluir ceiiHtery. -10111 the t ins
?"b.,,u r n s'n' 'm"i: r,,,,'i N!,r r,,u" nii? injuries, u ia -n ,, .cr,.i.,i
Chain of Clrcumlanll.il Evidence In
Very Strong That I'riil Gllll Was
Killed b) Km phi) r.
ri-e bodv of I' red Glllis arrived es
tonlny from Hoy, Montana, where l:e
Iston. JlnM.. we lake ine roiio.ving stming t lint 1 red hough! It in Miles ,. ,ft. which made it certain tl.M
nccn.int of the finding of the I.O.I. llty. while cmoutc bore the lnt time. t,e would bo ititlrolv helpless so long
the Impicst and the arrest of suspects: J A minute cxniiilnutlnn of I '1 i d's cloth- ns he lived, dentil mny ierl,mi hne
"Co-ity Attnr-rv . A. Wr'gt'l. . snowe.i no powder hum or stnln. Uni n welcome lol.nse rmm an e.
M...,,., Ul,.,.r II. I nn.l l. I SO tllO If II II Hint K I Oil llilll lllll.t lit ,.f n.. . .. if....!.... II.
' -',,! !'( '..- MIK, ( , . - - i ' " ."ttr,,,!, rill, I'l iiik. .ill.
vldiUe, the t tenographi r, nrrlvel injiK-eessIt) have been Hied nt him scv Collin hnd been 11 lesldcnt of deling
'ili rliy .ves'en'oy fm 1 liny, b'lno- i0rnl ,,,ttn-' , . . fr a year or mmi' nnd was n painter
Inir three prl'nne- wi n nre held In1 i'ootprints were found near nnd n b tiaile. one of the best w.nkmen in
-merctlnn with ti p im'r'er of I'riil ,cn"' : de or the trucks. Hie liro.i this section, and hml nn etensle con
'illlls, u oun't honiestcnder In the,0""'"? ilrney hn link's shoes, trnclliig business in that line, much
liny sertloi. Thev n-e: John Tln'x, n,' !"" f1".'' At . ,1m'-.aeP.. ihnv "f w,'lf wl" ' enrrlid on to com
n-e t!'. cln-g-l with rurilcrs Uwi-'V10 '''""'I the tiacks of Irnl's doe. pletlon by his woiknun for Ihe beniPt
K!n!t, his brotVr. nwl 17. charged I yu,y'!S P J'10 lii'li st, tcstllled thai of his widow nnd her family, lie
with robbery, and llnrry Jumps, agcdl1!1" Icf.t V,0.!'i,T nfu'r ''"''""I I'lnk ,l.nves 11 mo.t estimable family, com
n witness. departed! that ho gmund his u at..J. .prising his wife and live children, with
Is had been iJ. 1 ." 1 ,," ,l" T?1 someiwnom tne rommunl y Tees a po grant
at a mlS" iru.'11 i""1 "f. M", lln" "'l'athy In the ca amity w .Ich has
? 15 I- v,";,.,1 Vtumlntr. about 1 o'clock. U.fnllen them,
he nlwn vs ''' ,in MT''1'' .,,f olle. "f. V,,',l'JL V'',,rll'y "'" n '"'"i at New
having his washing done
boilng homesteaders plnce,
A Serious Accident.
Last Sunday afternoon. July
about 3 o'clock, George S, Stephenson
was out driving In his car, with his
wife and a party of friends. In cross
ing n bridge on tho road, south of
the Woodvlllc school, between Dan
Maikt's and Freddie Markt's, Jr.,
mere is quite an onset, and In pass
ing over the brhlffo at this nlace. at
slow speed, not more than seven or
cignt miles an Hour, Mr. Stephenson
thinks Mrs. Stenhenson and Mrs. An.
ly Fryman were thrown up Into tho
top of the car, Inflicting a cup-shaped
wound In Mrs. S.'s head, clear to tho
none, ami nruising ami cutting Sirs,
rrvman's head, but not so severelv
They at once hurried to town to Dr.
Kearney, ,took fourteen stitches fn
Kearney, took fourttecn stitches In
Mrs. Stephenson's wound, nnd fixed
up oirs, rrymnn. iiotn arc now get.
ting alomr nlcelv. and it la in he hnn.
ed there will not be any serious re
sults from their cuts and rublsos.
No one else was hurt, and tho cor was
not injured.
Class Iteunlon.
At was u jolly bunch that gathered
at tho home of Grace Ilnlley for a
reunion of the class of 1!U:1, of the
Oregon High School. The reunion.
which Is usually held New Year's Kve,
was held In order that tho class might
all havo tho opportunity of seciiig
Harris E. Fotreo before his return to
Washington, D. C. All but three
members or tho class were present.
1 hose present wcrcs Anno Kinzie,
Nolle. PrU8sman. Mrs. Emma Emer-
son, Dculah Klopp, Grace Ilalley,
Floyd Coffman, Hanson Murray, Har
ris I'ctrce, Frank Kreek, Oakley Mor
ris and Orra Poswell, Those unablo
to attend were: Mrs. George Derr,
Lyaia Acton ana uoya aicnuity. a
grand, good tlmo was had,
M u C l 1 I. tents mil nipmiy townrii wnr Willi .Mexico niier me inrnun im-iuem, wrere mm in me lenui mvnirj were imin huu'mh
llCWS dn&pSIlOIS ,y Cnrrnnrn trmi, who killed seetitini nnd tool, tui'iity.lhree (itlsoiier. TI10 mniilry wns slim l.ed bejond Ivllef nt thl
tf iVia WonL treachery by 11 innn we hml bv'rlendeil, nnd Kwleinry uinslng ileinnndm Hint the prlsmiers In- relcii'iil nt once, imcr uhlil,
WI llie TTCCK ., ni0i uimnl wns ruhwl with nil tmssltilo ill-i'iilcli to the Isirder. Ciirrntizn, teeing the po.ll.y of n really serious urn.
filet staring lilm In the face, tho respoiilblllly of which would rest on him, released the enidunM Irinih-rs reluctnntly, but InsMed that the American army
lie withdrawn. rreldent Wllsmi, Iiowcmt. remnliivil of the oplilon tliat the troop should stay until they had accomplished their tnlsslou of eullrcly clear
ing our tsirder of the isllllliy of bandit raids.
IT WAS .Ml'UDKU.
SS y ZA -rvM; lind"'ny "shelf aWAWK
bloir the News-Drmorrnt. of Liw-ithe gun belonged to rid. Junius l. vi.u r il., n,i.,n 1., 1...
Tin: 1 tittt:t: ciiaules"
slogan ton Missorm
Giant Cil) Man Coln Cntrh) Cani'
pnign Cr for llimhc-. I'ulr
li.mli nud Morrl.
nines norm or ieov. ami
rnlle. for Ids nun, ry on Sntunlny or' ' ' Z'S V'K,, ' " 'dl- Att ! Jheio
Sundav. He failed to do this last .1 . . . f 1. . 1 1 " l! 1 ,,.',,lir. ,,c KI'.V I'lanhoiMl's estate, nnd wns
SotiinlaV or Sun lav. nn n small f 1 h ,P J'""",) "?f ";"r'i", maril.il on August -Jl'. Ipimi, to I'. nrl
S lrt was fo med" o see whs Jjt lr "w. It ff,tn,,l,,ff,Z L" '"' 7" ,h,'' Vnl"
had beiome of him. as Inquiry .lis- H'c L ln J r 1,1 , 1 1 w7' '"'. live of who,,, suivlve their
closed the fact that no one had seen 1 niV""' H"r,ri 'nH '' paired Ida fnlher, hut one, Char es, . epattn
M... VI J.f '.i... " ? ,Zn, ll,,,' .lumps sold when he met Fink Ai.gust 7. I!H I. The lemnlnlm. 1 it,
In the body being found near n coulee,
vvnere dims nnu neen cutting posts.
He hnd been shot thiouch the chest
with a home-mmle bullet fiom n Colt'i
;u automatic. The olhrors were lm-
inetllntrle nnllllnl nml tlm ln..nnb
was conducted at Hoy, Tuesday, when
.mi. iiiiKiu leiiirseiueil llie Slate,
Justice of the I'ence Myron Clow,
representing the cm oner.
Some sitsnlrlous circumstance
Were ilevelnliril. but no direct , vl,lr,irn
could be secured as to the actual kill
ing.
"Glllis was about '-'." years of age
anil came out hero from Mound City,
Mo., and took up a homestciul. Ho
wns accompanied from Missouri by
young Jump. The latter and John
rink hnd been wniklng for young
ii!!!i' hr ,,,r, mcn ,vnK 'n
(1 s cabin. Last Thursday morning,
(illlls wanted the others to get up
nulte early to start In on soma work,
but thev declined to get out of bed,
and Glllis put n lot of sulphur on the
siovo nnu me mines soon rorced them
out. This was not relied nn nt oil as
tho motive for the killing, but It Is
thought It mny have been a factor.
, ,"Xn.m.c'nm,lc extracted
from G Is' bodv Is exnrllf 111 an....
that the men at tho cabin made for
use in a Colt automatic. Glllis was
very well though of In the neighbor
hood. He was a quiet, steady, Indus
trlous young man, and unmarried."
In addition to the Information con.
tained In tho nbovo cllppln". thn fol.
Hiiig icuer irom Attorney It. L.
Mlntnn gives further rlrnim.i.n..,.
attending the sad fate of Fred Glllis:
:ieiswn, wont., June 101(1.
r rtr.C,.G,,,1,. nn,,i VMMy.tin
of D. W, Porter. Mound Cltv. Mm
"Dear Folks: We know thn mm.
penso you aro laboring under to ob
tain some word from Knrl nnd I here
on this sad mission, so we send 11
messago tiy telegraph now mid write
this letter ns stated In telegram.
"Our train nrriv,l nt 1 .i.i.
nnd Mr. John Miller and Mr. Smith
.... t ui 11. u cur ni inn train, and he
fore I wrlto farther, I must speak of
the deep grntltude wo owe to the.e
two friends they Imvo rendered n
service that is not mensured in money
"Accorllng to till the rollnblo In-
formation ten rnn Hn.l ..'.l i i t-
death between 10 and" 12 oVIock, on
Thursday, Juno 22. Ho wns maklnS
uce " .,h,0 tlme- cull"K out
posts. He was being assisted by John
... L"niK', ,Ho' B0 fBr ,M 18 tnown,
was tho last In smi Fnui .11... '
Tho clipping we send Is In tho
main correct as to tho search made by
neighbors, and tho finding of tho re
mains. They were found about 7
o clock on the ranch, quite a distance
on the horse, he asked him, Ms Fled
goin to miiKo nny rence this aft. r
noon?' And the leply wns, 'No, l ied
won't make nny fence this iifterniMm.'
"j understand thnt this famllj of
l inks, comprised of father and ti ne
sons, enme from Oklahoma, nnd that
they have the r.ntuies of mied
blood.
"Vte have asked for a transcript of
ni.': (.lailys, John. Mary, Ellrnbeth,
Nell and Moithy I'leice. May in,
ll'l". Mr. and Mrs. Collin came to Ne
braska, ami for four year iiinde their
home In Srottsbluir. whele Mis. (.'of
fin' folks leslde. Two yenr ago thev
came to Geiing, wlieie they Imvo since
lesiiled. I'liiee weeks ngo, Inst Sun
day, while out with a fishing pnitv, In
nil il,n .?.TY """'.i ."' " ,,n,',;,'Pt f I attempting to ililve his horse ami rig
nil the evidence that was adduced at Hinder 11 lalliond bildge. west of t;.
the coroner's Inuucst. which will ln
sent us, the finding being, 'We, the
Jury find that the deceased came to
Ids death by hnnils unknown, with
felonious Intent.'
"Through the many kindnesses of
Mr. John Miller wu have nut and bun
Introduced to the authorities, and ic
celved from him that assistance, tlioo
mvu.s unci courtesies mat are only
truly nald bv the denihs ..f Dm ,r,'.
appreciation. He received our me.
sages, anil nt tho first moment left
I'1' ";rk at ,,lls '""y tlmo for htm,
tOOK III Cnr Over llllinf mllna nf
and iiiuddy reads; urranged for such
u rusnri uiai would make It possihlo
for Its to brimr tmrk tilth . l.'....!
remains to the place whero wc want
July 1 JflCCP Ncw,uJt''Tcr,-0,";ln.
O 1
His 43d lllrthdsv.
. ,ar "iKhSI'PrilT. George E. GcMn,
had a b rtlu ne. UV.Inm.l... r i.n.
week, June 28, this date making him
two score and three years. Ills motif
er, Mrs. Mary Gclvln, S. S. Meadows
ni who, iatnei-in-luw and mother-in-law,
and William Kurtz and wife
were present and helped to paitnko
of tho many good things that lm:l
been prepared for this auspicious
event by his estimable wife. (Ic.
s as thorough nt the table as he is
In the conduct of his ofllce, so u
may be sure he never passed any-
thing UI). Well. hum'. ti..l,n 1,.;,.
many happy returns of tho occasion.
Medical Meeting.
There will bo a mretlmr nf tlm Halt
County Mcdlcnl Society, at tho Court
nouse, hi urcj-on, mis rnursilav, July
(1. hollowing ! tho program;
"Infection of Cervix Uteri," Dr. '.
I;. Uullock.
.. "I'nwysnial Tachycardia," l)r J.
F. Chandler.
"Spinal Injuries," Dr. Jacob finger,
of St. Joseph.
''T1.'10?'01- ' the Law," II0.1.
h. V. O'Fallon.
Everybody Invited. Ilo sure nnd
attend. DIt. W. S. WOOD,
Secretary.
o
Br, J, L. Hogan reports a boy
baby born to I.. It. Cunnlmrhmit nnil
wife, of tho Highland district, Sun-
nay, iiuiy ,
11 g. lie wns rntally Injun d. On tli
following .Monday nn opeiatlon win
Performed Hint loveolcd the fart that
hi spinal cud wns seveuil. Hopet
of lecovery weie despalied of. ..
was faithfully attended, but gave jp
the struggle, pusslng to lest Tuesday,
noon. June 27. IPll!, aged il.l years, 111
months nnd 22 days. He leaves to
mourn him. hesldes bin li,i,,,n.iini..
family, his fnther, William Collin, two
uncles. Ed nnd Frank Shull, an aunt,
...in. null. ,-, IttUlllllUn, llilll grUlll.
mother. Mrs. Win. Sluill. nil nf Mm ...1
City, M..-(;ering, (Neh.) Courier.
Juno ltd. Int.!
The Marriage II. cord.
Itecorder Diinkers U fill llflfr l'Art
busy during the month of Juno Issu
Ing marriage licenses, but eight
couples culled on him, and he Issued
marriago iicrmlts to tho following:
CaMrr, Cnpt. Hay, of Mound City,
huh i-iuiices tnioni, 01 irnig, UI 0'
ada. Mo.. June i!B.
fioodspeed, lluth, of Mound City,
and fiuy Kent. 01 Murvvllln.
iiicKinun, i,oe, 01 raw nee City,
Neb., ami (ilatiyn Irene I'uxton, of
. u.vn. w(l, UIIMI.' ,h
MOOI'O. Vlllllim I... nml llnrtnnn
Dungan, both of Oregon, June lf.
Moedlnger, Gottlieb, and Mrs. Lenn
,'tiiuwei, uuill 01 VJI'lgOll, in nt. Jo
soph. June 8.
Frussmnn, llnliih, of Mitchell, S. I).,
and l.mma llnilley, of Oregon, Juno
-I',
Itowlette, Wllfied, nnd Anno Mny
Link, both of Mnitlnnd. June 15. .
.Simpson, John, and Lillian Price,
both of Olfl'im. June 1.1.
Sherman, C. E., nnd Mubel Hush,
wuiii in uii'kuii, juno o.
Tyson. Joseilll.'of Skldmnrn nml
Edith Klnir Cottier, of Mnim.l r-l.,.
Juno 1. "
Vllson, Ilruco v., and Joslo S.
oung, ot worning, Juno 1.
It hn 1e111nl11.1l for Editor J. W.
Dillon, of liinnt Cilt. to coin n slounn
uhich bids fair to spi.nd ovei the
tnte i-erore the .ml or the piimniy
rami.ilgn. Il happened In this way:
l.r. 10111 l .Miilillelon. llie well
'mown plntform l.vturer nnd Metho
list tnenrher of l.'nlonvllle, wns speak
ing there, the other night, ill the In
tel e.-t of the ranilldncy of C. D. Mor
r.s, editor of the St, Joseph !n7 tt.
lor tne Kepillilirnn iii'iiilnnllon mr
gov. mor. Morris is making his cam-
mlgn on 11 len lor business ellicUney
,1 the miuingement of the stnte gov-
eii'iiient,
When Ml. Mil il elon hud finished.
Editor Dillon niose mid said he wns
for t ie summit of "llie I lin e
t'hnrles" in the mestnt rnmiinigii
Charles K. Hughes for piesld.nt,
1, in, lis w. inlilmnKs lor vlc.-pesl
d.Tit. and Charles '!. Morris fnr gov
ernor of Missouri.
III.1 c 1, thus asm for Morris l'.ivc In
stant nonulnritv to the nlirnso nml II
bids fair to be the sluirun of the stnte
campaign.
0
(Kill nan Pierce.
L D, Pieice. one of the old settlers
r Holt county nnil the luther of Mr.
.hi I in Shlltts. of this clt. nnssed nnnv
nt the home of his sou. ii I'leire,
111 iiiuige 1 ny, itntisn'.. .Honilaj. .lune
.0. Mr. rieire wns visiting Ills son
While he wns there he suirciod n sell.
mis fall, and for several tlnys he wns
in nil unconscious condition. Ills
death occuired on his eighty-ninth
iirii.iiiiv.
Mr. Pieice wns born in llnltlinoiv.
.unrviaiii . June Hi. I hLIT. lie em Linn.
ed to .Missouil In emly life. He wns
a inwiulier or the Missouil militia nt
the time of the Mexican war. and
served In that war. In 1810 he tin..
-oil the plains to the god teds In
Ciillfninln. He thove nn ox team nnd
went thiougli ninny hardships,
In lU-.'l 1 1.. ....... I I
' ,1,' ii-iuiiii-ii uini uji inur-
n.tl to I'lioelie K. Springer. His wife
lUecedeil him In dentil n few niotiths.
Her death weighed heavily on his
muni, ns nicy nan Men constant com
imnlons.
lie is hllivlved bv his son. (
of Dodge City, Kansas, and four
daughters, namely: Mrs. Julia ShutK
oi mi cnvi .iirs. Jlnttle Mooie. or
Willi;, hi, Knnsns, and Miss Cola
Pierre, of Wichita, Kansas; also ten
grandchildren.
Mr. Pielcn wns n nieiiiber nf tlm
Methodist church, hnvlni' iissnmn 1
in. inner in cany lire. Ilo was n dc
vote.1 Christian to tho end.
luivral senlcos and Interment
took place ut Wichita. News-Jcffcr-
sonitn, juiy 4, ISiJO.
Ileal Estate Matters.
Heal estatn bustneH. lm. luum ,lmn
almost to the zero lino for the month
of June, just nnssed. mid tho wnrmn.
ly .leais mr tins month arc only 40
prr cent of what they weie a year
ago for the sumo month. Tho total
warranty deals for June, lUlfl, wero
c.ily $08,820, and there were only live
. .-nls t'mt Involved $5,000 or over, but
these live averaged $7,420, Tho fol-
lowi ig is me iccoi.l or these deals:
II. E. Ilcnton to Hall llohlcn,
cii sw 24. 5!). !18 8' nnn
joiiii wonnn 10 v. j, Acs.lnle,
w ij ncrcs, so sj, 02,.3U....
P. L. Lower to L. I. .Mitchell,
so sw H2, Oil, IIP
U I. Mitchell to Peter L. Lower,
sw no U2, C'J, Ml
W. 11. Tobin to M. II. Mnrtln
und W. S. Gilford, 11 is no and
no nw 18, CI, 31) ufiOO
Newell, tho 13-year-old son of
Mr. and Mrs. Sidney Ends, of near
iwiiii 1., who wus lUKcn 10 a at
Joseph hosnltal. June 25. nml nnor.
ated upon for appendicitis, Is, wo are
glad to learn, doing as well as could
bo expected. Ills mother is at his
bedside, and the family physician, Dr.
McClannahan, thinks his speedy re
covery Is very promising.
Ju-t a I.lllle Tribute to a Friend.
Mrs, Ilcbcccn C. Anderson, whoso
mnldeii name wns lit hiccn Cummins,
wii noin Ai'gu.t c, A, 11., l;l., near
DeKalli. Cr&wfoi.l county. Ohio, nnd
died In Oiegon, Holt county, Mis
souri, July il, A. 1)., 1!1, aged nf
enrs, u inonlhs ami .lays; sho
wus united in innrrlnge to (u'orgo
Anderson, nt her 0I1I home, on l euru-
nry 2n, a. 11.. he .lying :it
Ningaui Falls, N. Y., July 27, A. I).,
IW7. Of this union two cfiildien were
born Cn)lliic and David C both of
whom have incredcl Ixr In d.nth.
two gintiilcliiiilien. two lirnthers ami
two sisters, nud n large number ef
nephew nnd nieces survive her.
hen n very young girl, she united
with the I'leiliyterinn church. In
whose pule n long line of Scotch-Irish
nmotry held a la-tlng and abiding
f a It 11 n Jesus, the Christ, the Son of
God, us taught in the Holy Scriptures,
and as set foith In Cnlvanistlc tloc
trines nml Puritanical faith.
She tiatisferied her church mem
bership from her childhood home to
thW congregation, mid was 1eceiv.1l
into full fellowship nnd communion.
on Jnnunry III, A. D., IMHi, under the
pastorate 01 I lev. .misoii 11, nmiin,
holdlnif her church relations hero
continuously up to her death. -
.Modesty would loilnil extolling her
Christian character, her many virtues,
her needs 01 kindness nnu charity, her
lady-like wnlk and conversation In life
mid her devotion to the church and
Snbbnth school, hci'iiusc It has been
speaking for llfty years In this imme
diate vicinity. Her contributions to
the church nnd its boards and schools
were known to but few, for the irnron
she much preferied 0 meek, .pilct and
unostentatious iminticr of doing such.
These deeds never censed.
Although being nlmost helpless, and
contlned to an invalid chutr for mora
thntl ten years ten year of nllllctlon
nml suireilng she ever inntntnined n
lasting nnd ntiidlng limn in her risen
I .mil mid Saviour, Jesus Christ: n
fnllh that never fnltere.1 nor wnvrrc l.
but continued to her Inst moments of
speech mid consciousness; even whc'i
speech wns nlmost unintelligible thn
songs of .Ion weie rung by her, and
milter lit' niul ti'ltli h.-l file, 1. 1, tvnil
a pleiisiiie mid 11 delight, us signlllcd
liy winds or tliunkruliie;. She gicnl
ly ilctlglite.l in 1. peatlng passages of
Srilptiiie nnd choice selections of
poetry of 11 high moral and leligiou
totie.
I bus. In t,odV III evidence, she. en
tile ileus ef life's cviuliiir hnd con.
ilvnsed upon her blow, wns permitted
to linger mm tarry in tne twilight
niniii tier 11 lends ami mothers ami
sister, and n Mother In Israel is gat!'.,
el ed to her Futhers, mid is kindly Inid
10 rest untile her huslmiul nnd daugh
ter in beautiful Maple Grove ceme
leiy, nt Oiegon, Missouri.
A. VAN IICSKIItlv.
Filhernl' services weie conducted
fiom the I'iist Picshytciinn rhuuh,
at lOjlill n. in., Thiiisilny, July fi, linn,
by her pastor, Itev. T. A. Clagclt. a.
Isteil by 1,'ev. T. D. 1,'obeits. of New
Point, who wns her pnstor for a num.
her of ients. ntso I!, v. A. I). Seellir.
of llupiUilill. Nib., who Is u nephew
nv mmringe. ihe pan iienreis weiu
six nephews William Fulton, of (!.
neva, Nib.; James Pulton, of Falls
City, Neb.; Guy Cummins. Frank
Allen nnd fieoige Lehmer, of Oiegon,
nud liev. A. D. Seelig. of Humboldt.
Neb. The lemnins were laid to lent
beside her husbnud nud daughter In
Maple (imvo cemetery, at Oiegon,
Missouri, awaiting the liesuriectlon
of the body nnd was followed by u
huge concnuise of relatives and
fiiemls.
8100
5000
C500
Post Hughes' little flvo-year-old
son, of Forbes township, had tho mis
fortnno to have tho middle finger of
his left hand cut olf by tho cycle of
11 binder, around which ho was play
ing, Saturday, July 1. Dr. J. L.
Hogan rendered tho necessary surgi
cal aid, binding the severed member
back, with the hope that' It would re
unite, and which we truly hope will
be successful.
Company !.,' Captain Mirren.lers,
Com genu Captuln Outer has
met defeat In nn nttiick inmle by little
Dan Cupid, culminating in a cnmplctu
siiriemler Wednesday evening, nt
Camp Clink.
Many have b.en the rompiest that
rcntcicd nbout tho popular ofilcer,
whom Mound City claims as her own.
Even .Mound City' benuty, talent nnd
wit have tried In vuln to tnko by
storm the Captain' heart. It remain
ed for 11 Craig joung lady to break
down the defenses, nud leud tho vnl
oiojs soldier 11 willing prisoner to the
marriage altar, though he was fear
ess at tho prospects of Mexican bid
lets. Mr. and Mrs. Chns. Anlbal. of
Crnlg, received 11 telegram fiom. Camp
Clnrk, at Nevada Mo., Thursday
morning, telling them thnt their
daughter, Miss Frances, and Captain
liny Carter, of this city, wero mnrried
at that place, Wednesday evening.
June 2h, at 7 o'clock.
Miss Anlbal had been vlslthg her
friend. Miss Winifred llnu-lm. nt Pit,
City, Kansas. They went to Nevada.
u.incsday, and the ceremony mado
Miss Anlbal a member of Company L.
Wc have no further particulars.
Mr. Carter is tho son of Mr. nml
Mrs. J. H. Cr.rtcr. of this cltv. m,i i
Captain of Company l which vent
irom 1, us city, a weeK ngo.
Their plans for tho future, if thev
hod nny definite ones, will prnln.bly
bo uncrrtnln until the .Mexican troublo
80 1 ( Vfl ' ' Isrewp""1 "fc rsc n I an , Juno
Killed Almost Instantly.
A fatal and shocking accident oc
curred In Mound City, July 4. In
which l ay DcLong tho little, eight-year-old
son of Frnk DeLong ,was al
most Instantly killed. The little fel
low was riding behind an Ice wagon,
on tho running board, when a chunk
of ice slipped nnd fell, and rolled
against the chain, used across tho end
of thy wagon to hold the ice in, break
ing the chain, knocking the boy oft to
the 'ground, the heavy chunk of ice
striking him on the head, crushing in
his skull, death resulting' In k few
moments.
