THE BARKE BAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 9G.
UAH HE, VKHMOXT. FIUDAV, JULY 7. 1910.
P1UCK, OXK CKXT.
BRITISH SMASH
GERMAN LINE
FOR 1,000 YDS.
PROTECT VERMONT
FROM POLIOMYELITIS
Sut Board of Health Adopt Rules and
Regulation Intended to Keep Du
els Out of the State.
Second Phase of the Great Offensive
Started With Success East of La Bois-
selle But British Had to Relinquish
Ground in the Region of Thiepval
London Admits
NEAR OVILLERS ALSO
THE BRITISH ADVANCED
Germans Countered With Heavy At
tacks Near the Ancre and Violent
Fighting Is Now in Progress In the
Verdun Sector a Small German At
tack at Le Petre Wood Failed, Paris
Reports
London, July 7. The capture by the British of a German trench
on a front of 1,000 yards, east of LaBoisselle in the Somme region,
was announced officially to-day. The British assumed the offensive
on certain sectors east of Albert at dawn to-day, and at the same
time the Germans launched heavy attacks on British trenches near
the Ancre. Violent fighting is now in progress.
In the vicinity of Ovillers and Contalmaison wells, near LaBois
selle, the British made progress. In the region of Theipval, the
Germans regained a section of lost ground.
SECOND PHASE OF OFFENSIVE
IS NOW UNDER WAY
The second phase of the great battle on the western front has
now begun. Artillery has been brought up to new positions and
is again battering the German defenses. The bombardment ex
tends as far north as LaBassee and Armentieres and, according to
the latest unofficial advices, is particularly intense. The British
long-range guns are shelling the German positions and the roads
in their rear.
In addition to inflicting losses on the Germans in men and guns
and territory, the Anglo-French offensive is reported to have com
pelled them to withdraw some of their forces from the Verdun
front. Consequently, it is expected that the French army, which
for nearly five months has withstood the German attacks, wil
have some relief from continual fighting.
ARTILLERY DUELS
ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE MEUSE
Firing Was Particularly Active On the
Thiaumont Earthwork German
Aeroplanes Bombed an Open
French Town.
Paris, July 7. Quiet prevailed last
night on both sides of the. Somme river,
pays the war office statement. The ar
tillery on both sides was active on the
left and the right banks of the Meuse.
especially on the Thiaumont earthwork
and in the Fleury and the Chenois sec
tions. A small German attack on French
trenches at Le Petre wood failed.
German aeroplanes, the report asserts,
yesterday dropped bombs on the opcu
town of Lure, killing 11 persons, all o!
whom with one exception were women
and children. Two German machines
were brought down near Meziere.
the intense heat in Mesopotamia makes
campaigning very difficult at this time of
the year.
"NOT UNFAVORABLE TO GERMANY"
Declares Berlin Official Report on Somme
Fighting.
Berlin, via London, July 7. The result
of heavy engagements in progress all
Iat night north and south of the river
Somme were not unfavorable to the Ger
mans, the war office announced to-dav.
SMALL FEE FOR VERMONT
To Be Secured from the Hetty Green
Estate.
GERMAN WARSHIPS
CAPTURE PRIZE
NEAR ENGLAND
British Steamer Lestris Seized, According
to Official Announcement By the
Government at Berlin.
Berlin, via London, July 7. Official an
nouncement was made to-day that the
British steamship Lestris was held up by
Gernutn warships near the Knglish coast
and scied as a prize.
The statement says the Lestris was
held up by a portion of the German hign
seas forces.
Thi Gentian statement is the first in
dication of any German high sea fleet
near the- English coast. The Lestris
seizure is the second exploit of the kind
bv the Germans. On June 16 the Brit
ish steamer Brussels was captured by
German destroyers and taken with it
passengers into Zeebrugge.
RUSSIANS RETIRE IN BAGDAD.
Have Fallen Back for 80 Miles Before Big
Turkish Army.
London. July 7. A Petrograd despatch
to the Daily Telegraph says that the
Russians have fallen bock almost SO
miles in the Bagdad region.
The despatch says that the pressure of
the Turkich forces a only one of the
reason which caused t he retirement of
the Russiin. The Turks are Mid to
have gathered great army to contest
the Kurfian advance.
The principal reaeon. however, given
for the retreat of the P ifMins is tiat
Bellows Falls. July 7. A tax of $1,250
is the extent of the fee which Vermont
may expect from the estate of millions
disposed of in the will of Mrs. Hetty
Green, long known as America's wealthi
est woman, in the opinion of state -end
local officials who read the provisions of
ner win yesterday, the document gave
practically the entire estate to her son
Colonel E. II. R. Green, and her daughter
Mrs. Matthew Astor Wilke. This fact
made the bulk of the inheritance exempt,
as there is no tax in this state on prop
erty willed from parents to children.
Mrs. Green's bequests totalling $25,000
to friends and other relatives, however,
are subject to a 5 per cent tax and from
this source the state will realize $1,250.
Although the will expressly stipulated
that no inventory or appraisal of the
estate should be required, it was said yes
terdav that the extent to which Mrs.
Green had developed her birthright might
be determined through an order from the
probate judge. Such an order, it was un
derstood, might le issued on a request of
any immediate relative or an interested
public official, but there was no indica
tion yesterday that any such proceeding
was contemplated. It was suggested that
a possible source of action might be an
official of New York state, where the in
heritance tax laws should exact a con
siderable sum from the estate if it were
shown to be within its jurisdiction.
In this connection, local officials point
ed out that Mrs. Green had claimed this
village, which is in the town of Rocking
ham, as her legal residence during the
last quarter century, coming here annual
ly for few weeks' stay. A the old
Green house has been allowed to fall into
disrepair, Mr. Green rarely ate or slept
within ita wall, but instead usuallv he.
came a guest of friends or stopped at a
small notei m a nesroy town.
Each year the tax lister of Rivking
harn placed a valuation of 3Al on the
homeetead and also assessed a tax on
$100,000 of personal property. Her aver
age tan payment has heen about ?2.51
annually, minus a discount of 4 per cent
for payment within ! days. Mrs. Green
always avl ihe a Uo waste.
Burlington, July 7. At the regular
monthly meeting of thw state board of
health, held yesterday afternoon, steps
were taken by the members of the board
towards protecting Vermont children
from possible contact with infantile pa
ralysis which thev might catch from cbil
dren who are brought to this city from
New York, where an epidemic is raging.
The following statement given out by
the board explains itself:
Infantile paralysis (epidemic polio
myelitis) is prevailing to an unusual ex
tent in the city of greater New York.
Families in that citv in which there
are children will naturally take audi
children as far as posnible into the coun
try. The state of Vermont has unusual
reasons for taking extraordinary precau
tions against this disease. Infantile pa
ralysis is generally recognized a a con
tagious disease and one that may be
spread innocently by persons who have
no clinical symptom, in other words, by
"abortive cases" or "healthy carriers."
The state board of health of this state
deems it reasonable under the circum
stances to mHke the following rules and
regulations; therefore, under the author
ity of the Vermont statutes, the follow,
ing rules and regulations are promulgat
ed:
1. No chilil under the age of 15 years
shall reside in this state for a period of
more than 21 hours without being report
ed by an attendant, parent or guardian
to the health officer of the town or pity
where such child is, provided such rhild
has been in the city of greater New York
since the 20th of June, mifl.
2. It shall be the dutv of everv house
keeper, manager or proprietor of every
hotel or bemrding-houae where such child
is domiciled, to immediately report such
child, giving the name and age, to the
health officer of his citv or town.
3. Every such child shall be subjected
to quarantine for a period of two weeks
from the time such child was last in the
city of greater New York.
4. The health officer of everv town
and city to w hom such a child is reported
shall immediately serve a written notice
upon the head of the family in which
such child is; this written notice shall
contain a copy of these regulations and
an order signed by such health officer re
quiring such child to remain on the prem
ises in which it is at that time for the
specified time of two weeks after last
caving the city of greater New York.
". Kach healfh officer to whom such
hild is reported shall require of the at
tendant, parent or guardian of such child,
a certificate in writing, duly signed by a
legal practitioner of medicine, certifying:
that the nose and throat of such child
has been thoroughly washed with a solu-
ion of a teaspoonful of common salt in a
pint of water, once a day for a period of
hree consecutive days, before the prem
ises are released from quarantine.
' 6. Xo child under 15 years of age shall
enter any house so quarantined.
7. A placard containing the word
"quarantine" shall be sufficient evidence
to all persons that the premises are quar
antined for the purposes of these rcgula
tiona.
Nothing in these regulations shall be
construed to prevent other member of a
household in which there is a child as
above described, who has left, the citv of
New York since June 20, 1916. from at
tending to their usual occupations.
The owners, manager or proprietors of
hotels and boarding-houses may place no
restrictions on attendant or guests in
their hotels or boarding-houses further
than the strict isolation of anv children
as above described from New York Citv
provided such children are isolated to the
satisfaction of the local health officer and
their" noses and throats irrigated as speci
fled.
Each health officer will see that ft copv
ot these regulations, with which he is
furnished, is conspicuously displayed in
at least three public places in his town
or city. a
These rules and regulations shall re
main in force until further notice.
Per order Vermont state board of
health.
Charles F. Dalton, M. IX,
Secretary.
GERMANS
RETREAT
IN EAST
Triple Defeat by Russians in
Sectors of Rig:a, Kolki and
Baranovichi Has Caused
Retirement Along: the En
tire Front, Says Wireless
Message from Petrograd
to Rome
RUSSIANS SUPERIOR
IN MEN AND GUNS
U. S. PLEASED
AT PROPOSAL
Informs Carranza That It
Acepts Direct Diplomat
. ic Negotiation
AS A SOLUTION
OF DIFFERENCES
United States Government
May Assist Carranza to
Restore Order
Washington, D. O, July 7. A note
formally accepting Carranza' proposal
that the differences between the L'nited
States and the de facto government of I
.Mexico be settled .by direct negotiation
SPECIAL SESSION
EXPECTED JULY 18
It is learned from a reliable
ouree that (Jovernor C. W. Gate
will rail the special session of the
tate legislature for Tuesday, July
1H. to appropriate money to assist
in the payment of the member of
the National Guard now in service
on the Mexican border. The ses
sion would probably havs been
called for sometime next week but
for the meeting of the Greater Ver
mont association, accommodation
for the legislators not being avail
able. It ha been suggested that the
legislative member show their pa
triotism by voting against the ac
ceptance of pay for the time they
re in Montpelier and the sugges
tion, according to reports, meets
with approval throughout, the
state. The olons, however, are en
titled to their mileage at the rate
of 20 cent per mile and that in
itself would net the member a
tidy sum.
(. 1
BEAUTIFUL DISPLAY OF ROSES.
Marks the Flower Show at the Church
Street School Building.
Quantities of roses of varied hue, to
was handed to-day to Eliseo Arredmdo, gf,ther with many other beautiful flow
Czar's Armies Continue to
Deliver Stroke After
Stroke, Seemingly With
out Intermission, and Are
Forcing Both the Ger
mans and Austrians Backward
London, July 7. A wireless despatch
from Rome says that word has been re
ceived from Pettograd that in conse
quence of a triple defeat in the sectors of
Riga, Kolki and Baranovichi the Germans
have begun to move their whole front to
ward the west.
22 DEATHS IN 24 HOURS.
There Are No Signs of Abatement of In
fantile Paralysis in New York.
New York. July 7. With citv, state
and federal authorities fighting the dis
ease, the epidemic ot infantile paralysis
showed little signs of abatement to-day.
During the 24 hours ending at 10 o'clock
this morning 22 children died, 19 of whom
resided in Brooklyn. Eighty-seven new
cases were reported.
FUNERAL OF THOMAS BURKE.
Was Held at St. Augustine's Church in
Montpelier.
The funeral of Thomas Burke of Mont
pelier, who died Wednesday evening in
Waterbury, was held from St. Augux-
ne s church in Montpelier this morning
at !1 o'clock. Rev. Thomas McCarthy oih-
lating. The bearers were W . C. Ber
gen, ,lonn I . .uacn, Israel (.rapo, jerry
McCormick, W. S. Choate and James
Kwing. Interment was in the Catholic
cemetery.
Mr Burke was born in Montpelier No
vember 1, 155, the son of John and
Katherine Burke. He spent his whole
ife in Montpelier and for 35 year was
employed in the shops of the Ijne Man-
facturing Co. He was married April
:6. IS!3, to Miss Mary Medler, and she.
together with an adopted son, survives.
He also leave two brothers, James
Burke of Montpelier, and Edward Burke;
of Barre. and two sisters, Mrs. James
Quinn of Montpelier and Mrs. James
Hart of Stewartstown, N H. He was
a member of the Catholic Order of Foresters.
The Russians, who now apparently
have a better supply of guns and ammu
nition than their adversaries, seem to
pass from one phase to the next without
intermission, General Letchiteky's army,
which conquered Bukowina, is advancing
in an effort completely to overcome the
Austrian forces on that front. General
Kaledines is continuing to deliver heavy
strokes against the Austrian and Ger
mans, endeavoring to keep them from
Kovel. Ji . , '
With these operation in full swing,
the Kusstaavin the north have inaugu
rated an Offensive from Riga to Barano-
fvichi. Near Smorgen also the. Russians
and the Germans are engaged in a severe
struggle.
The. immensity of the Russian drive
against the Austrians and Germans dur
ing the last month is indicated by un
official reports from Petrograd, which say
that the Austro-Gcrman losses, in the
endeavor to stay the advance of General
Bni.9ilofT's armies, total nearly half a
million men. aboiit half of whom are
prisoners. Not less than 250 guns of
various sires and more than 7X machine
guns and an immense quantity of other
booty have been taken.
The Austrians admit a serious defeat
west of Kolomea, where they were driven
back nearly five miles.
The latest official statement from the
Russian war office announces the cap
ture of approximately 10.000 additional
prisoners. 5.000 of whom are said to be
Germans taken in a recent battle on the
Dniester. About 5.000 other prisoners
were captured on other sections of the
Russian front.
The Germans admit the withdrawal of
General Von Bothmer'a army in the Tar-1
napol sector before the powerful attack
of the Russians.
era, made the second (lower show under
the auspices of the Barre Woman's club
a most attractive snot to visit renter
day, the opening day, at the Church
street school building. Although it wa
primarily a rose show, other exhibits
were desired and the call was well re
sponded to.
A large number of people took advan
tage of the opportunity to see the. many
bloom displayed during the afternoon
and many more, it is expected, will visit
the building this afternoon from 2 to 0
tor the same purpose.
In the vicinity of 20 different kinds of
roses were displayed, all of them very
beautiful. Conspicuous among the dis
play of flowers other than rosea were
vase of Canterbury bells, which were
met.Mexican ambassador designate. See
retary of State Lansing took a draft of
the note at today s cabinet meeting and
had it delivered promptly after the cab'
inet adjourned. A course to be pursued
haa already been agreed upon by I real
ent Wilson and his adviser.
Event clearly have proved the failure
of the first chiefs hopes to re-estab
lish orderly government unaided, offi
clals Here believe, ana with the war
abroad shutting ofT every other source
of assistance, he is thought now to have
reached the point where he will make
proper guarantees in order to secure
American capital.
Mr. Arredotido said last night that
while he had general instructions from
his government to discuss with the state
department the points on which there is Ltl-v admired, both the single and so
disagreement, he would await new order ob1M "clir... Md.aucer varitie beimr dis-
from Mexico City, before undertaking UyM. Hundreds of velvet y pansies Were
wic mupoeru nrK.i.m i nm m. n auueu contributed bv M Fmmu fTharhon-
that he did not expect to take up the .. williamstown the result of nnlv
question ot arranging credit tor ru gov- two davg. bloomine. and it wa.s from
eminent, hut would leave that to Dr. Williamstown, too. that several speei
Aiireno latin-eg-u, i.enerai i arranza s meng f i10W v adv' slipper came, con-
nnaneiai agent, stationed at aw 1 orc. tributd bv Mrs. Sarah Seaver. Then.
Jt is believed here that the question wa. . .mj,n -xhihit n( nasturtium and
of constructive measures to stabilize the ,w,et but the wason is too
f k 1 1 V I '
..irxic.n gmermneni win come up ueiure w,rd for mrv of these vet. Sweet wi
tne conversation nave progressed very iiam, which figured to some extent a
tar. me Washington administration IS the neonv show last month, acain had
1 I a. 1 a1 1 ; I - I . r
uimcrswou " or s iiriuiy conincca as ft pHoe arnon(j the flowers at this time
ever inn wie oniy proper unci emcirni. There were a so exhibit of foxglove.
cure for the distressing condition of its arkpur) frRet-me-nots, poppies, pink
southern neighbor must be found witn .n(i mnv others too numerous la men
in that country, not through interven- tion- majng the school room a place of
lion, as inc on me time & cure lor inc 1 heautr
.... . . . . . . . i j
awiess conditions in tne border states i . .ff,ir of rv;. .ort it i. at once
must be found before the United States evident that considerable work is neces
can feel justified in abating in any de- Mrv inr j. p,rrvinr "t- but nnder th
gree the preparation it is making to pro. efljnt leadership tti Alra-ii. J. Morrison
iw-t us ironner oy lurce ui aims. ,n,i n, n V. .larvis. the flower how
J Here IS no question that the Mexican ... milI,h annreciated and arrticinated. It
trovernnient will contend forcefully' fori;. . ,,-.... i, ;u t,.f
wie wunarBiai oi American iroops iroiu tne ppH, of Williamstown have show
Mexico. Since the purpose to compel thmr interest and united with those c
their withdrawal has been abandoned, this citv in sending contributions, the
however, officials do not look for an- Robinson, Mrs. Sarah Seaver and
other deadlock on that issue. President MjM Emma Charbonneau all sending
viion is said ro ne reaay 10 orner tne beautiful exhibits. Other out-of-town ex
troops out promptly when -he has any hihits were two soecimens of roses, crown
assurance that it will not mean merely ky George Chase of Bethel. The rest
a renewal of the conditions that cause! Wpre bv local flower growers.
them to be sent in. Hut no plan ot ac- nn, ehnriire was made in the system o
tion now agreed upon can be based upon na mig the prize winners at this event
BREAST TORN
BY GUN SHOT
Archie Bonnani, 3S, Com
mitted Suicide at 22 Ladd
Street To-day
WAS DISCOURAGED
BECAUSE OF ILLNESS
He Left Letter Address
Brothers and Sis a
in Italy
Sick and discoursge cbie Bonnsnl,
aged 38 years, arose
. morning at the
an agreement to withdraw them.
NO MORE TROOPS FOR BORDER.
BIG GATHERING OF FARMERS.
VILLA REAPPEARS
AT HEAD OF ARMTT
San Antonio. Tex.. July 7. Per
shing reported to Funston to-day
that a rumor reached him of Fran
cisco Villa' reappearance south of
Parral. The report estimated Vil
la's followers from S ' to 2 AW.
From Two Counties Will Be Held
Barre Next Month.
Committees from the Washington
County Farm Bureau association, the
Orange County Farmers' association, the
Montpelier board ot trade and the Bane
Hoard of Trade held a joint meeting
the Howland building yesterday, and
made plans for carrying out the idea oi
holding a field day and picnic sometime
the hitter part ot August.
The committee accepted the invitation
of the Harre Board of Trade to hold this
meeting at the Granite City trotting
park in Barre. 1 lie date was lett in
charge of a committee. Other commit
tees were appointed as follows: ( orr.
mil tee on speakers. W. C. Colton of
Montpelier. F. G. Howland of Barre,
County Agent-". Loveland and Abbott
committee on stock judging and stock
exhibit, J. A. Partridge of Washington
Roy Smith of Barre. and H. J. IVvlge of
Rerlin; committee on entertainment,
Barre Board of Trade or its committees;
committee on entertainment for women,
Barre Woman's club.
The object of this joint meeting and
picnic is to promote ihe good-fellowship
and acquaintance of the people of the
two counties and to so arrange it that
it will be a decided educational meeting
for the farmers. The features will be
stok judging, and good speaking and tii
whole meeting will be primarily agricul
tural in its nature. The details will be
worked out by the different committees
and subsequent notices will keep yu
posted on the matter.
STREET CAR STRUCK AUTO.
And Members Having Dependent Fam
ilies Will Be Discharged.
Washington, D. C, July 7. The war
department will send no more National
Guard troops to the border except to re
lieve those already there, it has been an
nounced. Those which have been ordered
to entrain will go within the next few
days and the other will remain at home
': o n, no f n- n,
. ... . O,.... O.I Mia f.r.- U-rinht
i; .1. , lr.... ...ja leuow ruse-mi, Jire. d. .iiniei.
"V" n O "'v:,X; ,A Z"u" ", Tn) hi"; 2 Mrs. H. S. Meaker, Trow
.1..... ,1 4 in . onl.rnA.. hill
r'..Kiit;n ra.i,j.- ,.f I Hvbrid perpetual 1st, Mrs. W. F.
n..i.-. .- i:.t m.mL. f tu. Shepard; 2d, Clare and Leone Reynolds.
with dependent families be discharged three blooms hybrid perpetual
no prize being awarded where there was
only one exhibit of a kind and no com
petition. A at the peony show, William
Greig and James Levie acted as judges.
The nex"t exhibit for which the-worn
an' club is planning is of sweet peas and
gladioli, sometime in August.
The prize winners were as follows;
White hvdrid tea rose 1st, George
Chase, Bethel; 2d, Miss M. t. Robinson
Williamstown.
White moss rose 1st, Mrs. E. T. Mow
er; 2d. Air. Baldwin, v aahmgton street
Pink hybrid tea rose 1st, George
boarding-house of Mr. Catherine Bar.
delli, 22 Ladd street, where he was living,
and sent a charge of shot' into hi breit,
death ensuing instantly. He left a fare
well letter to his two brother and on
sister in Italy, the letter being sealed
and directed to his stepmother, Mrs. El
len Bonnani of 30 North Main street, di
recting her to forward the letter to tl,a
relative in Italy,
Recently the man had compbiined of a
severe pain in hi right side and sbdo-.
men, and, in addition, he was afflicted
with a cough which irave indication of
growing lung trouble. He mt up late
last night talking with neighbors who
gathered in the neighborhood. He had;
worked at his trade of stonecutter at
Grearson A Lane's plant on Burnham's,
meadow for two hours yesterday until)
forced to lay off because' of the lack ofi
ir to run the pneumatic tools.
At 6:45 this morning Mrs. Bardelli was
rartled by the sound of a. shot from'
Bonnani's room on the second floor of her
house and, fearing some tragedy, she ran;
ui oi ine nouse to. tne nome of A. Abiat-i
just across the street. Neighbors also!
had heard the sound but some thought it;
cAme from a belated Fourth of July ex-
plosion. Presently, however, a few went '
upstair and saw a thin column of smoke
issuing from the crevices of the closed en-
trance to Bonnani's room.
The police office was notified by tele- :
phone, and Chief Sinclair and Officer Hen- j
derson went to Ladd street. On enter-,
ing the room they found the body lying
on its back on the floor, just beside the!
bed. Nearby was a double-barreled shot
gun, one chamber of which wa emptied
and the butt of which was resting under'
a radiator. Also lying nearby was the
ramrod ef the gun, and it was evident ;
that In Tils desperation Bonnani had se-i
eurely lodged the butt of the gun under
the radiator and then, after putting the'
muzzle against his breast, had discharged
the weapon by pressing the trigger with :
the ramrod.
The shot had torn a large wound in the
center of the body and some of the charge
had undoubtedly hit the heart. Life was !
extinct. The police tried to get into '
communication with Health Officer J. W.
Stewart but faiied to locate him, after i
which they secured Charles Olliver of the.
board of health. After the remains were '
viewed, the body was ordered removed to '
the undertaking rooms of Perry A Noon-
an. Ihe body wa.s clothed in trousers
and shirt when found.
One thing that may have served to de
press Bonnani was the fact that his
boarding-lion keeper was planning to;
eave tor the tuth and had told him that
he would have to get another place in!
which to live. His inability to maintain 1
steady employment was undoubtedly an- 1
other contributing cause. Ho had worked
off and on for Grearson & Lane for some'
years, but his ill health had kept him
from full-time employment. A year ago)
last April his father, Oresta Bonnani,
passed away, and since that time thai
man had been more or less discouraged.'
He had been living at Mrs. Bardelli'a !
since last September.
His stepmother. Mrs. Ellen Bonnani.
dependent famines be discharge'
from the service was the first sign at the
war departmen) that tension on the bor
der had relaxed. It is regarded as mak
ing unnecessary any legislation on the
subject of relief for soldiers' families
and also carries out the expressed desire
of President Witson that the. border pa
trol duty be arranged so as to work as
little inconvenience for the citizen sol
diers as possible. .
DEATH OF W. C. QUINLAN. .
End Came Last Night After Long Period
of 111 Health.
William C. Quinlan died at his home at
172 North Main street last night follow-
ng an uphill fight against chronic bron
hitis. Nearly two years ago, Mr. Quin
lan went to California in search of a
more helpful climate and lived at the
sanatorium at Menton and also passed
some time at Redland. Just nine weeks
ago to-day he returned to Barre.
Mr. Quinlan was born Oct. 19, lS-W. in
New Brunswick.. He had lived in Barre
about 32 years. In 1 S8S fce married Miss
arrie Peck. As a young man he was
pioneer in the granite industry and
operated several sheds on Burnham's
meadow. At that time he lived at the
corner of Prospect street and Bailey ave
nue. Mr. Quinlan waa always a strong
church member, belonging to St. Moni
ca's. When in 1M7 the Catholics built
the present church building on Summer
street. Mr. Quinlan was one of those to
work the hardest in raising the funds
ecery. He belonged ta the Knights
f Columbus. ....
Jack rose Cleora and Leone Reynold".
Double red rosa rugosa 1st, Miss Rob
mson. V illianistswn; -d, Airs. xt. o.
Meaker.
Climbing rose 1st, Miss Emma Char
bonneau, Williamstown; 2d, Mrs. M. B.
Winter.
Old-fashioned roses Mrs. Sarah Seav-
Baby rambler -Mrs. Alex. Duncan.
Hardy double, white roa rugosa Miss
M. E. Robinson.
Best display yellow roses Mrs. Hal-
vosa.
Best display hardy double white roses
Mrs. T. H. Garrity.
Beet display hardy double pink roses
Mrs. C. L. Bugbee.
Moss rosebuds Mrs. M. B. Winter
Hardy garden pinks 1st. Mrs. F. E.
Langley; 2d, Mrs. H. S. Meaker.
Sweet william 1st, Marguerite Kent;
2d, Mrs. C. I Bugbee.
Foxgloves 1st. Mrs. C. R. Allen; 2d,
Mrs. B. F. Davis, Trow hill..
Best Canterbury bells Mrs. R. S. Cur
rier.
Pansies Miss Emma Charbonneau.
Poppies Mrs. C. L. Bugbee. .
CITY MEETING TO-NIGHT.
Two Women in Latter Vehicle Injured I
at Burlington. I
Two Important Matters Are To Be Con
sidered By Citizens.
Two important matters sre to come be
fore the city meeting to be held in the
citv hall this evening at 8 o'clock: First,
to see if the city w ill bond to pave South
Main street and erect a bridge across
Jail branch; second, to see if the city
will Iv.nd to enlarge city water mains to
Beside his wife and one daughter. gly? better fire protection.
The first proposition was voted down
ho is employed in the laundry at the!
Barre City hospital, recently submitted!
o an operation on one foot and had only
left the hospital last Saturday, on which'
, , ,
lay sne saw ner stepson last. Un that:
ay she noticed his cough and. being so- j
citous as to his condition, asked him!
hy he did not go to see a physician; j
but the young man put her query asidn'
ithout definite assurance that, lie would;
consult medical aid. Knowledge of his
condition without doubt caused brooding!
Inch terminated in self-destruction.
Bonnani was born in Carrara, Italy,
nd would have been 39 years of age next
October. He came to the l'nited States'-
19 years ago and had lived in various
granite centers in the time intervening.
Most of the time had been spent in Barre. i
but he had also lived in Northficld andi
Montpelier, besides places farther dis- !
tant. His job at Grearson & Line's of ;
late had been on columnar work. He
was unmarried and since the death of his '
father he had made his home at various!
boarding-houses about Barre. He was
well known in the Italian colony.
He leaves, liesides his stepmother, the
two brothers and the sister, the last-1
named. Mrs. Ida Giorgo. residing in Car-j
rara, Italy. The two brothers' present:
location is unknown because thev are in.
the Italian army and presumably fighting,
the Austrians on the border line between
those two nations. One of them. Gio-i
vanni Bonnani, is a corporal and the
other, Bruno. i a private. The letter(
which Archie had written to the brothers,
and the sister was turned over to Mrs..
F.llen Bonnani bv Chief Sinclair, and she
will post it. a directed, without opening
the seal.
The funeral will be held from Terry
4 Noonan's undertaking moms Satur
day afternoon at 3 o'clock, and inter,
ment will be in Hope cemetery.
Mary 7... he leaves to mourn his los
three brother and three sister. Thy k,- . narrow margin at the last citv meet
are Mr. Mary Wilson. Mr. Julia Cripp. Soon afterwards a petition was cir-
Burlington. July 7. A runabout auto jGeorge Quinlan and Jeremiah Quinlan. jfiated asking for a second meeting on
mobile carrying Mr. Harriet Spear of I St. Johns. New Brunswick; N'eal Quin- the matter. The reason for proposing to
Troy. N. V.. and Mrs. Frank Brown of pan. Redland. Oal.. and Mr. Rachel Frv-jpg,, South Main street: a set forth hy
Stanford. wa struck by an electric earling of Springfle'd. Mass. Mr. Quinlan ! the city council when this work wa first
at the corner of Pearl and Propect ' ;had a host of friends and as an old res- being Ulked of a a part of this year's
streets and punea along ior .ri teet ves-1 Kieni i rrrr nr a ?rri many pe"- j program- was to give atmtters seven
terdsr afternoon. pie here, au symparnife sua tne tami-i rears
.vi rs. rr. n i-Tir.i . ..tr pnaniitu i - - -.' i priiR-in v. ." i ioi tni? pun, ii maaii
un was bnii-ed about i' b-lv and re- The funeral will he held from St. Men- ! propoed that part of the cost be raided t province
reived an iniurv to one leg. Mrs. Spear, ica hurch Sunday morning at 0:ibv taxation this vear. and when the an-.connected with th
got a scalp wonn-1 and injurie about the oVlo- V and burial will take place at the propriations were made in March. $l.!oi 1 which caused the dia.-ter in th Siciiia
ne k an l houlir. Ca't'olic cemetery on Berkley elm f as Toted for thi purpose. julphur minas.
MORE EARTHQUAKES.
Neapolitan and Calabrian Provinces Feel
Earth Tremors.
Naples. July rt. via Tans. July 7.
in which to pay their paving aa-!Severl strong earthquake shocks hive
ents. As a part of this plan, it was ioo-urred in the Neapolitan and Calabriin
It is believed that they wer
Telluric movement
