1 Hi H
RECORD
VOL.10. KENNA, CHAVES COUNTY, NEW IIEXiCO, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916. NO. 2l.
NOTICE FOR PUBLICATION.
01134
Department ol the Interior, U. S.
Lnnt Office lit Roswell, N. M.. June S, 1916.
Notice Is hereby given that A, Turner Hutch
rHon. of Jenkins, N. K., who on A pi. 19. 1915,
made HD, K Serin, No. 031T34, for SVi'H, Sec,
2 and the SE!rf. See. 30, Ti. 8 S.. Runtte 31 E
N. N. M, P.Meridlan, has filed notice of Inten
tion to moke final three-year proof, to c-tnb-lisli
clitltti to Ihe laha aiioTO described, before
Vm. R. iilanchai-d, U. S. Commissioner, in bin
odlce in Jenkins, N. M., on July 11, 118.
Claimant names as witnesses:
William Feninvr, Hen R. Warren, Wnde Cox,
O.oi-Ke W. Vatsnn. all of Jenlilna, N. M.
Kminett fattnn. Register.
June 9-Juiy 7.
kotice ron rtrm.icATiox.
"Non Coal " ' ' 00TI!)
Department of the Interior, U. S. Land
Onice at Fort Sumner, N. M., May ST. 191.
Notice Is hereb.t rfiven that llerman Emln
ter. of Clnlld.lli N. M.,NWho on Jllly 8. I'M.
thK'llj HombSteod; No. WTlii for EM; Section
ai.Twp. JS..R. 30 E.. N. M. P. Meridian, has
filed notice of Intention to make Final five
year proof, to establish claim to the land
above described, before (J. A. Coliey, O, S.
Commissioner, in hlsomce at Ellila, N. M,, on
the lath day of July. I'H6,
Claimant names as witnesses:
William M. Miller, Henry C. NefT, Dennis F.
Lamb, Charles Tolar. all of Claudell, N. M.
A. J. Evans, Register,
June 9-July 7.
Notice for Publication.
JlonCoul. " 0S917
' Department of the Interior, U. S
Land Office at Fort Snmnor, New Mexico,
MHjrtft, Will.
Notice ii hereby given that John It. Lonil,
Of Inicrnm, N. M whe on Aur. 28, I'M"), made
'homestead entry No. 00917. for KHSEU, Seo.
V4. Township t S.. Range 30 E N. M. P. Meri
dian, has tiled notice of intention to mnko final
five-year proof, to establish claim to tho hu.d
' above desorlbed, before DonC. Savaite, U. S.
CommiHsioner, In his office, at Kenna, N. M.
on the 10th day of July, 1918,
. Claimant names as witnesses:
Moses Oaldston, Ethcritlire Taylor, James
Urton, Oscftr Bell, of Ellda.N. M.
A. J. EiVanS, ttejistcr,
2--30.
JJOTICfc Of CONTEST.
Department of the Interior, U. S.
Land Office at Rosweil. N. M. June 20, 1916.
To Hob IUe Newton of Roswell, New Mex
ico, Contested
You are hereby notified that Emcnett A.
Berry, who Hives Roswell, New Mexico, as
hi. post office address, did on June S6, loin,
file in this office his duly corroborated appli-
atlon to contest and secure the cancellation
of jour homesteiwl entry Aortal No. 026" 17.
made SeptertTber 10, 1912, for N'lSWSi, NW!
SEtt and SWfcNE'i. Sec. 8,Twp. 9 S.. Ranife
SI E., N. M. P. Meridan, and as grounds for his
ontcst he alleges that said entryman nev.r
ade settlement upon wild homestead entry
nor established his residence thereon, andnev-
improved and cultivated the same, but whol
ly abandoned said traet.
You are, therefore, further notified that
the snld allegations will be taken by this
office as havlna been confessed by you, and
our said entry will be canceled thereunder
itholit yoltr further rifcht to be heard there
in, either before this office or on appeal. If
ou fail to Hie in this office within twenty
as. after the FOURTH publication of this
notice, as shown below, your answer, under
oath, specifically meeting and responding to
these allegation of contest, or If you fail
within that time to file in this office due
proof that you have served a copy of your
newer or the said contestant either In
person or by registered muil. If this service
is made by the delivery of a copy of your
nswer to the contestant in person, proof
of Sllcb service must be either the said
contestant's written acknowledgment of his
receipt of the copy, showing the date of
its receipt, or th. affidavit of the person by
whom the delivery was macifl stiultiif w hen
nd w here -the copy, was dellvereG; if made
by registered mall, proof of such service
lust consist of the affidavit of the person
by whom tile copy wtis mailed stating when
and the post office to which it was mailed,
and this affidavit must be accotr.ouined by
the postmaster's receipt for the letter.
You should state hi your answer the name
f the post office to which you desire future
notices to be sent to you. "
Kmmett Pntt"n. Register.
Date of. first publication June So, 1'iib
" second " -. July 7, 1916
" third " " July 14.1916
"fourth " . July 21, 1910
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.
United Btntes Land Ofllce, Fort Sumner,
New Meiioo, May 26. 1916.
Notice Is hereby given that the Slate of
New Mexico, by virtue of the acts of Con
gress approved June 31, 189s, and June SO, 1910,
nd acts supplementary and amendatory there
to, has filed in this omce selection list for the
following described hinds; "
List "324, serial No. 014048.
E'-4NK! Seo. M. SWX Seo. 3S, T.4 8,. K. 89
E,. NEK See. 17. T. 4 S R. 30 E., N. M. P. M.
containing 400 acres.
List 7315. serial No. 014049.
lMa 1, t, Seo. S, UVi'H See. 10, T. ii S R. 39
E., N. M. P. M., contaiulng S40.S! acres.
Protests or eontests against any or all of
such selection i may be tiled In this offlc. dur
ing the period of publication, or at any time
thereattor before ilnal approval and eertlfl-
cutiou. ,
A. J. Evans. Register,
J to J S .. ,
Notice for Publication.
Non Coal 0105'
Department ot the Interior, U. SJ
Land Office at Fort Sumner, N. M;, June 19,
1910.
Notice Is hereby given that Gertrude E
White, formerly Gertrude K, Tengue; of Kenna,
N. M.. who oa March 3. 1913. made hotuCBt.ad
No. 010571, for 854. Sec. 19, Two. 5 S.. Ranee
SO E., N. M. P. Meridian, has filed notice of in
tentlon to mako final t'iree year proof to es.
tabllsh claim to the lan'l above described
-fore Dan C. SBVsge. U. S. Commisl.ner. in
hi oftlee, at Kenna. N. M on the 13th day of
August. 1916.
Claimant ' names at witnesses:
Curl H. Prlewe, Goorge T. Llttlcfk'lil,
Charlie H. Wear, W liber T. X-ardl", all e
Kenna. N. M.
A. . Evans. Register
J7-A1. ,
police for Publication.
KomCoal ' Ol01'
010989
Department of the Interior, U. S
Land Office at Fort Suainer, New Mexico,
June 7, 1916.
Notice la hereby given that Oscar Patve
of Kenna. N. M.. who on July tj, 1913, mad
Homestead No, Olobtff. for WHS1014. KMS W H,
SWM8EX Seo. 9, SKJiSEU .See. 30. and on
.Veh. . 1914. made Add!. Hd. Kutry, No,
OW.W. for WKSEK. Section 30. Township 5 S
linage 30 E N. M. P- Meridian, lias Hied notice
of Intention to make llnul thne year Proof
to establish claim to the land above describ
ed before Dan C. tSavage. U. S. Commissioner
his office at Kenna, N.. M., on the 10th da:
August, I9l.
Claimant names as witnesses:
Robert E, Fletcher. Frank Good, George T
Llttlefleld. Charles M. tlarber, all of Kenn
M. M,
A. J. Evans. Register,
J; A 4 .
ii a n mini
BCO? Ill BUCKET
constitutes about 1.67 i'er
Sent of gros3 national in
come FROM ALL SOURCES.
- Kotli'c for rubltcatlon. " " "
013384
, ISOLATED TRACT
PUBLIC LAND SALE
Department of the Interior, U. S. Land
Office at fort Sumner, New Mexico, fine 19.
1916.' ' v
NOTICE is hereby give that, as directed
he Commissioner of the General Land OfUc,
Undor provlsionsof Seo. 3i&t R. S.. pursuant
to the application of George T. I.itrtleSeld,
Ker.aa.N, M., Serial No. Ollttfcl, w. will offer
at public, sale, to the hirhest bidder, kut at not
less than Sl.fiO pnr acre, at 1 o'clock P. M., on
tho U day of August, next, at this office, the
following tract of land: NWHNEJ4 Sec. 19,
T. 4 S.. n, 30 E.. N. M. P. M.
The (ale will not be kept open, but will be
declared closed when those present at the
hour named havo eeased bidding. The person
malting the highest bid will be required to im
mediately pay to the Recolver tile amount
thereof.
Any person olr.lmlng adversely the above-
described land are advised to file their claims,
or objections, ouor before tho time designat
ed for sale.
Raymundo Harrison, Receiver.
June Si-July2S. -
G.O. P. BOGEY EXPOSED
Munition Products Exported by Unit
ed State Only .75 Per Cent of
Annual Production.
Notice for Publication.
013137
ISOLATED TRACT
PUBLIC LAND SALE
Department of the Interior, (J. S. Land
Office at Fort Sumner. New Mexico, June 19,
me.
NOTICE Is hereby given that, as direcled by
the Commissioner of the General Land oKli'e.
UMd'jr provisions of Sco giS5, R. 8., pursuant
to the application of Samuel Jones. Elida, N
M.. Serial No. 01317. we will offler at public
sale, to the highett bidder, but at not less taan
Si 50 er acre, at S o'clock P. M, on the 11
day of August next, nt this oltleo, the follow
Ins tract of land: SVsSWM Sco. S7, T. 5 S.
It. 31 E.. M. M. P. M.
The sule will not Ifb kept open, but will be
declared closed whea those present at l.
hour Darned aave ceased bidding. Th. person
nukluif the highest bid will be required to lra
m.diately pay to the Receiver the amount
thereof.
Any pcrsoas claiming adversely the above de
scribed land are advised to tile their clal.ns.
or oblectlonson or bef.i tho tline designat
ed for sale.
Raymundo Harr'son. Receiver.
.June 30-Jnly 2S.
There Is no question tUat Secretary
Of Commerce Hedfield was ultra-conservative
In his statement of tacts
vheil, In a letter to Assistant Secre
tary Of thd Treasury Malbuni, he
knid tile war buniness fjf this country
13 less than 3 per cent of the total.
The total domestic btiwlness Of the
United' States In 1910 easily will
reach $42,0(10,000,000,
The manufactured product alone
will reach a value of $::o,0(i0,000,000.
Tho agricultural product which does
not pass through process of manii
fiMrturc will approximate in value $7,-000,000,000,
The product of the mines, such as
coal, natural gas, building stone, sand
and gravel, which doe not go through
the ltifthufncttiriflK prOcBi, will ap
proximate $2)00,000,000.
There Id fully $3,000,000,000 worth
ot manufactures .produced outside of
the Industrial tenters and the large
plants covered by the census of manu
fttctuies in small shops and homes
and In villages and hamlets not in
cluded in the above $30,000,000,000
total. f
-There is $1,000,000,000 worth of un
manufactured products exported.
Ther la another $1,000,000,000
worth of mlscelirtneoUfl production, In
cluding the tlnmanufafctured ftfirtlon Ot
the forestry and fishery product.
Yearly Income! $60,000,000,000.
& we (lav $iiOotf.t,0OQ t $4!,
000,000,000 worth of commodities al
together, not including earnings of
railways, banlia, wholesale and retail
mercantile houses, insurance, ship
ping and so on, which make a total '
annual income approximating In this
yoar of record prosperity not less
than $(;0,0l)000,000.
The above lji ft foilgh estimata of
thfl total business of the Country.
Vv'liat is the volume of war busi
tiefis? There ar two senses In which the
iirva "wkr business'' may be taken.
First, there is the miinitiofl business
exclusively. This, though large as
compared with Its former peace to
tal, it scarcely a drop in the bucket
as compared with the country's busi
ness total.
For the entire Uventy months of
the war down to March 31, 191(5, the
total exports of explosives and flre
armti atnOuntd to $.i;!0,000,000, rr fi
per ticnt of the entire $5,600,000,000
of exports during that period.
For the single calondar year 1013
exports of explosives and firearms
totaled approximately $200,000,000.
For the sake of argument, let us sup
pose that munition exports In 191 fi
reach $300,000,000.
Less Than One Per Cent.
' This la less than three-fourth of t
per cent of the country's total pro
duction of commodities aggregating
$42,000,000,000.
However, the terra "war business"
is much broader, In the sense used
by Secretary Retinoid, than "muni
tion business." It includes all sup
plies used for war purposes, including
leather and wool goods, chemicals,
horses, automobiles, gasoline, and a
large supply of agricultural produc
tions, including breadstuffs, meat
and dairy products, and has been esti
mated by some authorities at about
$1,000,000,000 for the calendar year.
The total "war business" in this
sense is about 2.4 per cent of the
country's total production.
If we ta'is l'i total income, of. th
United States froni all ' InduHtnul
sources plus railway, banking. Insur
ance, mercantile, shipping an.l oilier
earnings, which may b' rotishly esti
mated at $r0,000,000,000. we find that
flie war btiRiness in 1.07 per cent of
the total.
In any sense of the term, therefore,
tho war business , of the United
States is such a small percentage of
(he total that politicians who are ex
pending upon the less of war busi
ness as a bogy to scare tho American
people are likely to get disappointed.
Exports to All Countries.
The fact Is, the total volume of our
ex6rts to all countries, belligerent
End neutral, fihd for all purposaa, in
dustrial, commercial and war is only
P per cent of our total production.
Moreover, the present total pi educ
tion for domestic uses only, after de
ducting exports, is far greater than
the total production both for domes
lie and export demand in 1913 and
former years.
Finally, the present prospect is that
the end of the war, by restoring to
us a market. Tor $500,000,000 of ex
ports to Germany, Belgium, Austria
Hungary and other belligerents a
btteinPss which now is almost a com
plete" 10!8wiU not materially reduce
even the (otai volume of our exports.
It fchould be borne in liiihd that the
war now shuts out an export trade
which is nearly double the annual
volume of the munition exports. '
By way of summary we find the
facts as regards war bigness to bo
these:
1. Munition products exported to
Europe constitute only three-fourths
of 1 per cent of the total annual pro
duction. 2. Total exports for war purposes
approximate 2.4 per cent of the total
froduction.
S.- Total war business constitutes
s,botit 1.C7 per cent of the gross na
tional income from all sources.
4. Cest-'atiOh of war will restore to
the United States $300,000,000 of ex
ports, which is about double the pres
ent annual munition exports.
The house of representatives
has' passed the Shackelford hill
appropriating 25.000,000 for
he imrfrovement of poant road?.
The senate has passed the Bank
head hill appropriating 85,000,
000 for the same purpose. Doth
hills provide that before any
state can get the benefit of - any
of this government money it
must appropriate at least an
equal amount. .
CLOVEN HOOF IS SEEN
NEW "JUDICIAL ROBE" OF G. O. P
INADEQUATE TO COVBR IT,
' McCOMBS SAYS.
Elephant and Moose Dead, Declare
Democratic National Chairman;
"Long Live the American Eagle."
Notice for Publication..
M0 1 70
S.
Department of the Interior, U.
r,nnd Oflico at Hoswcll, N. M... June 21. 1916.
Notice is hereby tfiven Hint Jncob V. W
mer, ot New Hre. N. M., who. en Oct 8
l5. niBrte Add'lUK. Serlnl No. CTOno, tor Lots
, 3& 4, Sootion I. Twp 0 34 K.. N..M,
P. Meiiclliin. lm filed notice ot intentli n to
qui lie fliml tbree-yeur proof to establish
clnim to the land above described, before O. E
Toombs. TJ. S CotmnisBloner. In his ofllce. at
New Hope. N. M.. on Aue. 12. l'H6.
Claimant names as witnesses:
' Jnmea W. Armstrong, Cloorse H. Newconibe
jHlie A. Toombs, Iho M. Toombs. U of Jud,
son, N. M,
flMMETT PATTON,
Jtflv 7-A 4 Iteitr,
In formally opening the Democratic
national convention at St. Louis, June
11, William F. McCombs, chairman of
the Democratic national committee,
said:
"Ladies and gentlemen of the con-v-antion:
We are in an atmosphere
of victory. We have no feeling of
guess, but a spirit of certainty. We
meet to celebrate the marvelous
achievements of the Democratic party
Since it came into power and to place
h milestone npou the path of its fu
ture' success. -
"Over two thousands years ago
there was related tho fable of the
frog who wanted to grow to the sizo
of an elephant. Such- was the amiii
tion of his soul that his body swelled
to marvelous proportions. Indeed,
Aesop went so far as to predict that
the frog, upon reaching the size of
the elephant, would burBt. I com
mend to your notico the wisdom of
Aesop. It took over two thousand
years for his prophesy to come true.
Only last week the frog-elephant, or
the elephant-frog, exploded. The Re
publican party for years succeeded in
deceiving the country. Now it is de
ceiving itself. In its platform it of
fers pulchritudinous promise but
with vacuoua intent. It promises the
country In the main what the Demo
cratic narty has already done, or is
in the process of doing, saving al
ways the bogus Cod "protection." It
has cloaked its iniquity with a judi
cial robe but the cloven hoof of Bpe-
cful interest still protrudes.
"The board of directors has sat in
Chicago and again resolved that they
are the country. They have adopted
the doctrine of fore-ordination and
prffdeatjnation, but have made It ap
plicable only unto themselves. The
lest of the people are their wards
for profit. Ambition i.i a noble at
tribute, but when it is adulterated
with greed, a cataclysm is inevitable.
We have recently witnessed the pain
fur spectacle of two great American,
parties at Chicago putting self la
place of ideals; self glorification in
place of national honor; Republican
ism and ProgressiviBin, so-called, in
I place of our only 'ism' Americanism.
I "Wi havft w' r tlie drab anec-
lacie or two groups ot men, trariliiK
principles like competitors in a fish
maiket, In the hope that some com
promise would win public support.
They have not come together they
have fallen out over the 'swag.' For
I ho sake of victory many of then
men essentially opposite in principle
hi.ve been wining to become friends
with false masks. Tho result is in
evitable. 'Divided they fall.' We are
proud in the thought that 'united w
stand.' We welcome the present Am
ericanism of the Progressive Individ
ually td Otif ranks, offering them a
haven In a principle, Their leader
ltas abandoned them with crass cruel
ty. Tho gentleman from Oyster Day
In a recent letter to Chicago quoteif
Abraham Lincoln as saying 'May not
all, having the common intcrost, re
unite in a common effort to save our
common country.' Ladles and gentle"
men, I beg to call your attention to
the word 'reunite.' The word 'aave
the country' have been the disguise'
of the opposition for years. Titers
may- be a political war today in this ,
country, but that war only exists be
tween factions. Did the gentleman
quote the words of Lincoln fn the
hope of re-uniting Americans? No.
Americans are re-unlted as never be
fore. vHe meant by re-uniting, that
two factions of his party should be
unite. These two factions or parts
of them hoped to Join for self ag
grandizement. Leaders Of these tw
factions hoped to Join Jianda, bow
ever, and divide on irreconcilable
principles, for the insidious purpoa3
of everthrowing a third party which
for the past four years stood united
in a common cause; whose shibboleth
Is one for all and all for one: whoso
chief tenet ot faith la that America
is American and that Americans are
America.
"This is a crucial time in the his
tory of the world. It Is an hour when
every man should take stock of him
self and h' principles- This is aa
hour when every man should s-o
whether in hi inner consciousness
he squares" with the "ideals -of J77V
and the latter periods of dramatic
episodes when the cause maintained
peace ,witll honor. The Democratic
party, In the face of scandalous and
vicious attacks, has maintained this
great American ideal. While for
peace, It has steadily and surely
worked for sound and powerful pre
paredness. It has maintained a sol' ,
emn calm and dignity in the face ot
circumstances which might hav
drawn into the vortex. It has been
true to the spirit of America, it has
heen true to the great principles of
Washington and Jefferson, Jladlson
and Jackson. It has allowed no Belfist)
purpose to blind it to the fundamental
of its faith and the country's faith.
The Democratic party has proven it
self a party of principle, a; party of
ability, a party of performances. It
has proven that ideals can be real
ized. - '
Ladies and gentlemen of this great
convention, the elephant is dead, the
moose is dead. Long livo the Ameri
can e.TCle!'''
U, S. Dept. of Agriculture
Sta tion,
MONTHLY SUMMARY.
I Month of Jane 191G.
Temperature.
Mean !.78.5
Maximum 105
Minimum 44
Precipitation.
Total .22 in.
Number of Days
With .01 inch or more precip
itation 1
Clear 20
Partly cloudy 4
Clonily,
Wm. Uor.neh,
Cooperative Observer.
COWS FOR SALE
I havo between 50 and Co head
of cows with calves, from 2 to 0
years old, at my ranch north
west of Kenna. Prices right.
Address me for further informa
tion, at Kenna, N. M.
O. T. Littlefiftld.
