Weston -(Leader
VOL. XXXVI.
WESTOtf, OltlSOON, Fill DAY, JULY 7, 1910.
NO. . 3.
i
JPID'S
DOINGS
:;0F CURRENT WEEK
a'j NOTE OffLRS PROISt
Of PEACE WITH UNITED STATES
CARRAfJZA'S REPLY
Wsshnlgton, P. C liar ar th
salient features of tha not from Cen
tral Carranxa to b banded to Becre-
terv of SUU Laneine:. which' Dromlsa
Idfif .RcsinnC Cf General News ip" Washinjtoa tows tepatieat at Delay
juauneni ui ine nesican ivuaviun i yjr fjlu
1Auurmr.i thiit Maxlcsn troons
will establish mm and order In
Northern Mexico.
2 Assurances that adequate meea-
urei will bo taken to pravant repot!
tlon of raid Into American territory
I Charge that tha presence of
A mar lean troop la responsible for un-
NEWS ITEMS
rt I t. .
WILL BE DEFIANT About brcion
Mother's Cook Book.
frcni All ted lie Earth.
DYIRSAL RATPCOGS m A KUIStOI
BREAK APPEARS UNAVOIDABLE
Crop Shortage Will Be Offset
by Higher Prices This Year
Washington, D. C Tha monthly
bulletin of tha Federal Rerv board.
laaued thla week, diaaeuaelnf businee
condition of tha Pacific Coast says:
"While the crop of thi aectlon will
b lea than tha average, due to dam-
Uviffews Items of All Nations end
: Pacific Northwest Condensed
- for Our Busy Readers. '
aava rtar imtm fman arwfl nivMilh. thai I
aettled Condition, with a .tetement of fo Change IfJ Policy Toward MexiCO farmer and fruit frower will be pro-1
Contemplated by Wilson-Offer
to Protect Border Likely.
ed
The
event to date,
4 -Reiteration of the view that th
troop ihould be withdrawn.
t Announcement that tha da ratio
government ha accepted in principle
th suggestion of pan-American mool
atlon. and request that ine united Washington, D. C. While admlnls-
BUifi uerinn lie " . .m.UL mmnlttmA lmn.tl.tu
I . . . I I I at lMfilNinM ftft a arf lsmnt nf I
v,; over tbt hr.rf,?r
Three death from heat ware report-1
highest Umperetur waa 94 degree.
Herbert Hunter, a Seattle aviator,
flying at South Bend, Wash., while
SiWfl feet In tiia air had to descend
when the crank ahaft of hi engine
' broke, Aa landed safely on the tide
" i The London war offle announced
, that tha necessary passenger traffic be
- (ween Great Britain and th Continent
would be regulated eloeely and reduced
a far aa possible. Only thoce having
good reason will be permitted to
travel,,
While Rev. & E. Ilelman wa In tha
mldat of a sermon on vOur Country,
Ih tha Baker, Or., Metbodltt church,
the artillery of tha heaven let looe
and hi congregation waa startled by a
flash of lightning that paaacd Juat over
' their bead.
A bill. to aetabllah a National park
service, with a compe rotation ayatem
of supervision, and a bill to accept
from -.tha - state . of Oregon xelutv
Jurisdiction over the Crater Lake Na
tional park, were among meaaure
paaaad by the nous of representative.
Elbert IL Gary, chairman of th
United State Steol corporation, In a
statement Jttst laaued, aaaerta that the
leei business or me united bums ror
domestic us and for export ia better
than aver in It hlatory. Production
la larger. proAU greater and workmen
are receiving higher wage.
',. Ka aoldlor along the border la to ba I
atlon rather than by mediation.
The not ia couched In vlgorou lan
guage, but in spit or some or in
aharp commenU made, It la aald by th
Mexican ambaaay to be conciliatory in
tone. : It I aald that It cannot poaaibly
be Interpreted aa inaultlng or aa Justl
fying hoallle action by th American
force aaaembllng on th frontier.
The Preaident will not aeek to read
Into the note what it doea not contain.
lie propoae to take it at it face
value. ;
Tha recent retirement of American
troop toward th Rio Grand wa di
rected by the President In aplte of the
Irritation caused by the Cardial Inel
dent, for tha purpoa of proving to th
Carrania government that tha Waah
ington adminlatration had no Intention
of permanently occupying Mexican
territory.
The earn motiv waa behind in an
nouncement that General Penning
would be aaalgned to command the de
partment of New Mexico and I re
aponaible for the talk now emanating
from official circle that thi officer I
to proceed ahortly to El Paao, leaving
a colonel In command of th troop re
maining In Mexico,
What tb Preaident deeire to do I
to convince Ceneral Carranxa and hi
cblefa that thla government ha no
luat for Mexican territory and that be
will gladly order all aoldiora to with
draw once he i aatlafled tba Carranxa
force are able to maintain peace and
order. ' :
Decrease ia Pet ftgiit Years
w w iij . rt i
wkbout a Bible, If effort now being llC3q!CWIG.U lilj fUS&CSU
mad Itx provide each righting man
with a pocket-six khakl-bound volume I
at a coat of 6 con'. are auccestf ul.
.Th amy chaplains who have been In
UrenUd in the movement are lending
their aaalatanc to It. Tb Bible are
provided at coat . '
ranxa government in replying to tb
American demand for an explanation
of its purposes, private advice from
Mexico City Indicated that defiant
anawcr waa being prepared there.
Tb Stata department baa bad no di'
rect Information as to whoo th Mexi
can reaponae would b sent or bow It
would be transmitted. Secretary Lan
sing called this .fact to tha attention
of Ellaeo Arredondo, Mexican ambaa
aador deelgnata, during tha day and in
dicated that ha did not understand tha
delay, in view of th statement in tb
American not of last Saturday that
an early answer waa expected.
Mr. Arredondo, who had called to
announce formally th release of th
Canixal prisoners, said be had not
heard from bis government on tha sub
ject -
Tba private message, sent ty per
sons In a position to speak with soma
authority aa to General Carranxa' at
titude, expressed the conviction that a
braak between tba two govemmenu
was unavoidable. Tber appeared to
be complete agreement among mem
bers of tha Mexican cabinet it wa In
dicated, that order to General Trevino
to attack American troop moving In
any direction except toward tba bor
der be reaffirmed. Soma da facto offi
elal wiahed to go further and coaple
with thi statement In the Mexican
reply a defiant demand that American
troops be withdrawn immediately from
Mexican soil.
Intimation have reached officials
her that tha da facto govenment may
give strong assurance in its not that
border raide will be prevented by a
strong patrol of Mexican troop, if th
United State will withdraw It force.
It wa said at tha . Mexican ambaaay
that 60,000 Carranxa troopa are now
toeUd from lose through th greater
prices which they will receive for their
DToducta. Peach growers who last
year permitted their cropa to rot on
th trees because of th unprofitable
price prevailing are thla year con
tracting to aell their product which
will be 40 to 60 per cent of the aver
age, at mora man oouoie in pneee
prevailing at tha earns time last;, year.
"Tha damage from in rron to ap
ple and pear In tha Northwest has
been quite serious and general but tba
prediction is made that notwithstand
ing thia the year's erop will exceed
that of 1916. " ,
This year's grain crop of tha twelfth
district will be from SO to SO per cent
less than that of last year. This short
sge Is due to tha unusual drouth which
has prevailed during tha spring in cer
tain parte of California. A material
dacrease In acreage ia reported from
the Northwest It is asserted that the
carry over from last year's wheat erop
in Oregon and Washington aquala Z0
to 40 per cent of but rear's crop.
'Mining during the past year has
been the moat profitable industry
within this district . The next most
profitable one haa been livestock.
"Recent rains ia Idaho have greatly
benefitted tb grating lands. Sheep,
wool and cattle are all bringing high
prices in all of the state of thi dis
trict Dairying is also prosperous.
Chicago Reports received by the
Trlbvn from all over tha entire coun
try up to a lata hour Tuesday night
I show eight deaths and 191 persona ln-
n.uir.l Tmrlu Mrmrtsd Wadneailav lured as the toll Of th Fourth of July
night to th Mxlean war department celebration, aa compared with 19 killed available for border patrol duty.
k. ....... i wnmwUJ Anu.ri.-sn anl. and Boa In lured In 1915. Tha cabinet had no official
diers, who belonged to detachment an- For 17 yoars tha Tribune baa col- In any way changing wa situation
r-ia tk. a.k. .r r.i..t I UmA mnmrta of tha casualtiea whan it assembled at a regular meet-
been found In different part or the uirougnoui tna country on inaepeno- tnK. i " v..-
.,.. . r-kihn.fcna it ,uM ikH mm div ri ins MinwM fix uirsninir later it was suiwsu miu
were being returned to th American public atUntlon to what was In tha be-1 policy waa contemplated
aide aa soon as anoountared. I ginning of this period no leas than a
. ' I National ahama.
Tha owtoma bureau or ma treasury in the last half doxan vssra rerjort
dewtrtment iwgina an examination to I .Knn tK. esausitiea an the da.
.learn in total amount or arm ana am- cln. arKj this year has seen them
nunttion ,tMr w iwn (iporwo w u,,- to . minimum. Th year 1918
showed a aetback In tha steady decline
in easulatiea. due probably to th fact
that there waa practically a two-day
j celebration, tha Fourth falling on Sun-
Iday and th legal holiday on Monday.
.Mexico within th last year. The
work waa undertaken at the request of
the War department Ordora'wer
sent to U cuatema inspectors to tabu-l
lata tha Information and send it to I
Washington aa soon aa possible.
Fit Destroys U. S. KssSicas,
Dock Bsd Ware&oase at Seattle
Seattle. Wash. -Fire that waa dis
covered at 11 o'clock Friday night
Pier 11, known generally as tha Orien
tal dock, t the foot of Virginia street,
Deaths for tha last eight yeara have destroyed tha pier and its warehouse,
Th epidemic of . Infantile .paralysis,
which has claimed 82 lives in and near
Now York City within th last eight
days, continue to gain. ' From Satur
day noon until noon Wdneadsy, 87
ease developed and 23 persons died of
the disease: A toUl of 458 cases and
' 94 deaths have been reported sine
January 1. It waa announced that the
Rockefeller Institute Is planning to In
augurate a flald campaign againat tha
disease, ,j -
Aa a result of a family quarrel near
Pearl. Waah.. 14 mlios southeast of
Bridgeport Claud Tinker killed his
mother and his brother, Frank. He
been: 1918, 8 deaths;, 1916, 19;
1914, ; 1913, 82; 1912, 41: 1911', 67;
1910, 141 j 1909, 215.
Portland Man Killed.
Portland V. D. Burnell, coxswain
in tha regular- navy and on of th
craw of th training ship Boston, wa
fatally Injured Tuesday morning at 8
o'clock by tha premature explosion of
which waa occupied by th United
States amy quartermaster's depart
ment and W. F. Jahr! 4 Co., dealers in
building material hay and grain.
Large quantities or army supplies in
the warehouse were destroyed. The
burning of cartridges and shells caused
a succession of rattling explosions.
An unidentified boy about 11 years
Old, standing in front of th state arm-
Reoresentative Sinnott Now
Wears Oregoa Jackrabbit Fedora
Washington, D.. High-grade felt
bate can be manufactured from toe fur
of Oregon jackrabbit. This is no
longer a theory. : but a demonstrated
fact and Representative N. J. Sinnott
of Oregon, ia today, proudly wearing
tha first and only felt fedora ever man
ufactured in the country from jackrab
bit fur. . ' ' "
Last winter Mr. Bin not discovered
that felt hat manufacturers were em
barrassed because their supply of Ger
man rabbit fur was cut off with the
war. It occurred to him that jackrab
bit fur might be substituted and be
sent to Oregon for a consignment -of
jackrabbit akina. These he turned
over to tha largest and best-known hat
manufacturers in the East with th
advices request that they experiment with the
rabbit fur and determine its suiisdiii-
ties for hat manufacture.
The Jackrabbit hat seems to be tha
equal of any $5 felt bat on tba market
It ia of fine, soft texture, smooth to
th touch and clear in color and grain.
Members who examined it pronounced
it a first-class headpiece and on that
ought to command a good price in the
market' "
Mr. Sinnott waa told by manufactur
ers, who entered upon tba experiment
with some doubts, that the Oregon
jackrabbit fur made a much better hat
than they had anticipated. Ha also
learned from them that jackrabbit to
be valuable for hat manufacture must
be killed in the winter months, when
the fur ia heaviest and must come
from the colder portions of the West
Three ef a Kind Sherbet
Mix the juice of three lemooa, three
orange and tb palp of three bsnsnas
through a rlcer, with tbr cupful
tt sugar and three pints of thla cream.
Frees aa usual.
Csndlsd Charrls.
These ar dellclou and may b pre
pared at home. Take the Mount Mo
rency cherry or any firm cherry, ton
carefully, using a new hairpin, and
sosk tha desired amount la not
too etrong vinegar tt hours. This
mskes tbcm Arm.- Then drain and
mix with eqawl weight of granulated
ugar. Lay the mixture on platter
and keep In a coot plats for saves
dsys, stirring occasionally every day;
out In Jar and aeaL The cellar Is a
good place to keep them while they
are curing, . . . - , i ;
,; Cherry Oltvee.
These are perfectly delicious con
serve to eerve with meata. . Prepare
tbe cherries as sbove, using soma of
tha Binge, aa they have aucb firm
meat or other kinds of good flavor
will suit. Cover with vinegar as
sbov and let stand overnight; la
th morning Ds equal weight of sugar,
stir until welt dissolved and put Into
a Jar, ecver but ao not aeai ae iney
may be dipped Into without spoiling
litem. : -f ' .; " ... ' .
Irish Stew aa Casserole.
Hare two pounds of chops from the
neck end of mutton, trimmed of all
fat. Have pared sod sliced about two
quarts of potatoes snd sis onions me
dium stza. Put a layer of potatoes
and onions in the bottom of the cas
serole and sprinkle with sslt and pep
per, place oa these a layer of meat
then vegetables, season log aa before.
until all are need. Pour boiling wa
ter or broth to come nearly to me
layer. Cover and cook gently
in the oven for three boor.
Aaparagua With Melted Butter.
Bet the. stalks to cook tied In a
bunch, heada up. in boiling salted
water. Tbe water need not cover ui
heada. Let cook until tender, about
A FEW SMILES
The Art of Seeing , Things A
606ooaoooaoaoftroaCfawft6aflo,r
i
!: i
B WALTER DUNNET of Chicago
j i
:t i .
A I '
.- '
rrttrfrn-oA
The art of arcing things is not sufficient! defined by saying
that tbe one who keeps his eye open can discover elements of attrac
tion in objects around liirrj. A more exact and subtle meaning ma
b attached. fr if. V '-rV' 1 9enoa' discerning faculty ii
educated up i t . f ' can at one recognize tha
interesting IrA ' '.. V'A ; fcT ccmroercc This is aa
invaluable poscuioo' 4'm:,yrMc ia pu age of unprecedented pfog-
re, when great enterprises have to be acompluhed in a limited
time and tinder peculiar conditions and where quickne of insigbt,
inrolving corresponding quickness of action, is a dominant iactnr.
It may be said that the man of commonplace intelligence can
soe as far into a stone as the man of science. But not necessarily s
Both may observe (he same object externally, but the scientist, wi'th
his intellectual insight quickened by observation and learning, can"
read into the age, composition and general structure of the stone
that which would be impossible to the man of uutrained mental
power.
It is the privilege and duty of all to acquire the art of seeing
things and thus find sermon in stones and food for thought in the
environments of one' daily life. '
.Turned Out Well.
a six-pound charge during tb firing of lory on top of a bluff
tha Independence day salute aboard in watching tha vfire,
Boston. He died three hour later at
a local hospital.
Eight shots baa been diachargod
from tha six-pound gun In firing the
salute when tha accident occurred.
a block distant.
waa struck by a
bursting shell and in-
f ragment of a
atentlv killed.
Tbe financial loss or tha or is esti
mated at $500,000. ' -
Tha United States cable repair
also attempted to kill his father, who Th ninth charge had been thrust Into steamer Bumaide was at tha pier when tanca
la a well-known rancher in that vicin
ity, but did not succeed.
It waa announced at army headquar
ter In San Francisco that orders hsd I
been received from Washington for
bidding the giving out of any informa
tion regarding troop movements, fed
eral or National Guard, In th Western
department . 1 "
Tha nam of tha Faelfie Reserve
Fleet with headquarters at the Puget
Sonnd navy yard,, haa been changed to
"Reaerv Force, U. S. Pacific Fleet'
Six vessels of the reserve fore ar In
Mexican and California waters nnder
command of Rear Admiral Fullam,
who shifted hla flag from the cruiser
Pittsburg to tha cruiser Colorado. His
litis henceforth 'will b commander of
'the' Reserve ' Force, Pacific Fleet in
stead of commander-in-chief of th Pa
eifle Reserve Fleet
Thomas Ke'ley. millionaire con
tractor, accused of defrauding tha pro
vince of Manitoba in the erection of
Parliament buildings at Winnipeg,
waa found guilty by a jury In Assise
court .
Bandits attacked tha bridge over th
Medina river at MacDona, Tex., about
20 miles southwest of San Antonio,
Friday sight according to a report
The bridge guard of United States
soldiers routed their assailants, who
fled in the dsrkness. Two Americans
were wounded. One of the bandita
was taken prisoner.
tha chamber and C F. Trulllnger, tha fire broke out but waa taken out
member of the crew, waa standing be- into the stream by her crew before
side the gun closing the breech when much damage waa done Her upper
the nowder exploded. The brass shell works were slightly scorched.
was thrown back against th deflector The fir burned With extraordinary
of th gun and, tearing through that a fury and the firemen were able only to
Dortlon of It struck Burnell. who wss I save th adjoining piers and . tha ware-
standing directly in its
th gun. r
path pointing
houses to
structure.
th rear of the burning
Prince of 10 In Army. . . , .
Berlin According to a traditional
custom of the llohensollern house,
Prince William, eldest son of Crown
Prince Frederick William ami heir pre
sumptive, waa enrolled in the army
Tuesday, his 10th birthday. He waa
appointed a lieutenant of the First
Guard Infantry. The prince, like nis
great-great-grandfather, Emperor Wil
liam I, who became a lieutenant in
1807, begins his military career in the
midst of a great war. Prince William
also has an honorary command with
the Second Guard Landwuhr regiment
, Twenty-five Infants Die.
New York Twenty-five children
died from th epidemic of infantile
paralysis here during the 24 hours end
ed at 6 o'clock Tuesday night accord
ing to an announcement by the health
department Twenty-four deaths oc
curred in Brooklyn and one in Manhat
tan. Fifty-nine new cases and 81 sus
pected cases of the disease were re
ported from four boroughs. Of these,
48 cases and 15 suspected cases are
In Brooklyn.
Sir Roger Casement Sentenced to Die.
London Sir Roger Casement waa
convicted of treason for leading tha re
cent IrUh revolt and sentence of death
waa at once imposed. 'After Sir Roger
had been sentenced, Daniel J. Bailey,
the private soldier, who had been bald
as his accomplice, waa placed in the
dock. Tha chief justice directed the
Jury to return a verdict of not gulity
and Bailey waa discharged. Sir Roger
New Route Proposed.
Klamath Falls A new road to
shorten the distance from Eugene to I
Klamath county point and to make a
new route for tourists from that sec
tion bound for California, ia being con
sidered In this city. Arrangements
have been completed' for taking the
question up with the County court next
week at ita 'regular jury term, ine
present route from Eugene to Crescent
is via McKenxie Pass and Bend, a dis-
of 170 mile. The proposed
route, in connection with the old mili
tary road, would make- the distance
from Eugene to Crescent 109 miles and
would have the effect of routing the
southern-bound tourist through Cres
cent via Crater Lake and Klamath
Falls and on into California via Tula
Lake road, through the Modoc lava
beda. -
New Coast Una Hinted.
Cottage Grove Tha fact that sever
al routes from here towards the coast I
have been tentatively surveyed and
that it is known that owners of large I
bodies of timber in the vicinity of Lo-
rano wish to find a cheap way of get
ting it to market leads to tha beliefl
that a railroad from her in a westerly
direction is a possibility of the next
few yeara. The extension of th Ore-
- -Ton never can
tell what sort of
woman a Ctrl la
going to makeT
. "Perhapa not'
"On of the
most admirable
wivea and moth
ers In this town
ased to be a gid
dy creatara
whose favorite
saying waa, "Oh,
t I could luat die
1 dancing!' -
For Warlike Purposes.
How did Indian cluba get their
names T -
I dont know," answered the man
whone knowledge of ethnology la lim
ited. "Ferhape from the fact that In
diana carried cluba."" ,
But they didn't swing 'em for exer
ciser. ',
Probably not 1 presume they were
used chiefly to test the power of re
sistance offered by each other's
skulls."
Foolish Question. ' ;
Well! Well!" exclaimed the fatu
ous Individual to a man who waa plod
ding homeward with a string of perch '
In one hand and his fishing tackle, la
the other. . "Been flahlngr' .
"Oh, no," answered the victim, wear-1
n m nutea. Hare rr? J suces oi
toast and lay tbe stalks on the toast
heads all In one direction. Pour melt
ed better over and serve at one.
Drawn butter may be used instead of
relted butter If desired.
Drawn Butter Sauce.
Meaaure a third of a cupful of but-
ter. two teblespoonfuls of floor, salt
and oeDDer to taste and one cupful
of water. Blend half the butter and
all flour together, then add tha cup
ful of boiling water, cook tea minutea
with the season's-. When ready to
serve add the t't of the butter in
mall hits until JI I'i used. This last
point la important
n "1 lust borrowed thla outfit to
pose before a moving picture camera.'
There to Make Trouble.
"I noticed a number of intelligent
looking people In your audience who
gave close attention to your epeecn,
remarked the campaign manager.
TJmph!" said the political orator.
"I don't consider that flattering--Why
notr
"Those persons are professional
highbrowa and I auspect they were
present simply to find fault with my
grammar."
A Sad Reminder.
"What fun la It
to ait all day on
the hank of a riv
er and watch a
cork float"
"My friend
aald the assidu
oua angler. "It
take your mind
off your business
troubles."
"Not In my
case. I was once
persuaded to In
vest $10,000 in a
scheme to manu
facture nonreflll
able bottlea." ,
Not to Be Trusted. : I
Tt Isn't pleasant to have an Irate
man shake hla fist In your face." "
No, it isn't" answered tha peace-
loving optimist "You never can tell
when a person like that ia going to
r WW-
School Garden- Benefit and
Pleasure to the Children
:rw;sas!viii
hi. untnM with tha utmost eon Pacific & Eastern in this direction
waa announced eoous tnreeKyearo Ki
but waa abandoned on account of the
stringency of the money market
Record Mortgage Fild.
Astoria One of the largest mort
gages filed in Clatsop county for many
composure, smiling at frlenda in tha
court room. Hla statement waa a plea
for th right to b triad by Irishmen.
Battle In Battle Saa. V
Berlin An official statement issued
tij. nik r..m tiwwtn veara waa recorded this week. It wss
boats attacked Russian forces consist- given by the Crown Willamette Paper
ing of an armored cruiser, a protected company to the .Continental & Com-
eruiser and Ave destroyers, between mercial Trust 4 Sayings Dank ana
Havrinee and Landsort (islanda in the Frank H. Jones, of Chicago. It covers
Baltie Sea off Soderman Land. Swe- all the paper company a extensive, tim-
j . .krf .nnmm.nttli. berland holdings in Oregon ar)d Cali-
d i rwi. . ttMn fornia and was given as security for
k....i...n.,iniiw euual. I6.00&000 in 6?er cent bonds, issued
tie nor damage." by the company.
.-ayV.4".'
. - . iff' -
5:4,Vt''
a-rV.
r
serer diplomatic relation.., no to ipeaav
by tweaking your now." ' '
STAR OF FILMDOM
i ! "
.
i
'' i
Joeki Saundar.
Popular movie actress who is starred
in the "Grip of EyO,", s. t fc
Electrocution Trap For I
Insects Brings Comfort
. For Summer Evenings,
- ;, . : . i
An electrocution trap for insects ia -
one of the latest inventions to bring
comfort to mankind. Now ft will ba
possible to sit reading in peace oa '.
your porch at night while the electro- .
cutlon trap kills off the insects that
would naturally seek you as their prey, j
Upon an Insulated frame two naked ;
metal conductors ar coiled in a spiral
with sufficient space betweea the wind-.
legs. The two conductors are connect. ,
ed with a source of electricity in such
a manner that the current cannot clr-
culate" until it la actually used in kill-
ing an insect f j
This is one of the advantagea of the .,
invention, for in thia way no current
can be wasted. Insects may be at- "v
tract ed to the electrocution either by
water or by any other attractive sub-
stance. At night time electric lights i
are the beat . . : ?
As quickly as an Insect touches tha '
bait or the light and comes in contact s
with any two of the live wirea they
drop down into the bottom of the trap.
The current is very slight and passes '
through the insect only for a moment, ,'
Harvesting Crop Grown by Pupils In School Garden.
Every school m city, town ana
Bountrv should have a garden where
th pupil may be taught some of the
practical things necessary ror grow
ing plants, in the opinion of educators
who have aeon the practical results
obtained from this work. Boys and
girls generally take an interest in
such work and it ia an easy matter
to lead them to plant aeeds and to
cultivate the plants during growth.
Other advantages, besides teaching
the children practical agriculture, arc
cited in support of the plan. .It is
pointed out that the exercise found in
the open while gardening will be
worth much to pupils and teachera,
and that the achool garden will help
tha teachera get in closer touch with
the home.
Vogue for Ribbon. ; ...
The picturesque style, of dress
of today necessitates the use of
ribbons tor decorative purposes,
and so beautiful are they that
it would seem as though women
could never- have enough, of
them.. Sometimes entire skirts
are composed of them, as well
as bats. They are used . a for i.
sashes, draperies, ' muffs and
stole's. Again, they are convert-,
ed into pretty little boleros, and
the new suggestions in neck-,'
wear are fashioned of them. .
Diminutive bows are , seen on
the front of stockings, and then
there are the rosebud garters,
aa well aa latticework one, in
which small ribbon flowers are
strewn with artistic negligence.
Uses Tissue Paper Now. '
The high cost of cotton has appar
ently.forced one of the prominent drug
concern to abandon tbe time honored
custom of using this commodity, a '
packiug in small bottles ceutaming
tablets which lose strength oa expo
sure to the air and to substitute locg.
narrow strips of tissue ppr la p!.
Of It - A
