fHlHlTf
xy xy
v .
-Vol. 20
No.28
.4 ' III . . .
IU V I II I II I III III III II fl III III f I III .Ml (V All
News From
Camp Ferris
Encampment a Busy Scene With
Plenty of Work For All.
Health Conditions Excellent and
Rations Ample and Good.
Camp Ferris, Grayling, July 4th.
Friends at home will have some need
less worry the next few days as to the
welfare of soldiers in the Michigan bri
gade at Camp Ferris. Reports will
cause them to believe that the men are
not being properly fed; that they are
overworked; that they don't get sleep
enough; and that they do not sleep
warm at night. In fact, a good many
mothers will feel that the government
is using their boys unfairly and there
will be perfectly needless heartaches
in consequence.
These reports will come from the'
men who have been rejected because
of failure to pass the physical examina
tion. Some of them have been sent
home before the examination because
Vpf sickness, and the sickness is as often
Jlue to their own folly as to other cau
ses. They feel, as do the others re
jected, perhaps, that some excuse for
their return home is necessary.
It is a weakness of human nature to
blame everybody and everything for
conditions except ourselves, so some
of ' those who lose out feel in duty
bound to knock. Not all of them; but
some do, and the stories which they
tell are cruel and unkind.
Now to relieve the feelings of those
who will be harried by "such stories.
The men are not being starved. They
are being fed plain, wholesome food,
and enough of it. This food is well
cooked and served in cleanly fashion.
A doctor is responsible for its cleanli
ness. How many Michigan homes
have a doctor in the kitchen to see that
health rules are rigidly followed?
The men are not being worked to
death. I hey drill all told lour hours a
day. Many of them are laboring men
who have been working hard at home
eight and ten hours a day. Up here,
drilling in the brilliant sunshine, re
freshed by cool breezes off the lake, is
certainly not drudgery. Of course
there is a parade for one-third of the
troops each evening. This takes half
an hour and is a pretty ceremony in
which the men are keenly interested,
because they are competing with other
companies for the best appearance be
fore hundreds of spectators.
Some of the men perhaps do not
sleep very warmly at night. There are
not blankets enough,, yet. But the
blankets are here and will be issued
within a day or two. And that sleep-
ing lightly covered is not unhealthful
is shown by the fact that company after
company, containing from 100 to 140
men, report each morning, "No sick
ness." In each . regiment perhaps
there are 25 cases of slight colds. But
get 1,000 men from any city or town
together, from any occupation, and
more than 25 of them will have colds,
it is safe to say.
They get sleep enough, by the way,
more sleep in many instances than they
get at home, Taps blow at 10 o'clock.
That means lights out and quiet in
company street. If a man is in camp,
there is nothing to do but go to bed at
Taps and sleep eight hours, till six the
next morning. The bed is there, the
quiet is there. He can sleep if he
wants to. If he prefers to walk four
miles to Grayling and stay up till after
midnight, that isn't the fault of the
state or the government. v
So the stories of the disgruntled ones
who are sent home can be taken with
a proverbial grain of salt. Let me re
peat again that only a few are disgrunt
led. Most of the rejected, a big majon
ty of tnem, in fact, face their hard luck
like soldiers, and tro back to their civi
lian duties quietly and gamely. ,But
tty loud talker, "guardhouse lawyer"
is the army name for him, is always
with us, and makes more noise than
the real soldiers who are rejected
through no fault of their own.
The testimony of Mrs. O. L. Nutson
and her son, Claude, of Owosso, who
are here visiting a relative in Company
H, of the 33rd Michigan Infantry, is of
interest to other mothers and brothers
who are wondering how the young
yf soldier is faring.
jCJ "I wish everybody could come up
here and see conditions for themsel
ves," said Mr. B. Nutson, who is a gro
cer, and knows considerable about the
nunlitv of food. "There would be a
i j
good many mothers who would sleep
better. The food is well prepared and
plentiful. We had supper in Company
H'scamp and enjoyed it very much in
deed. There are few frills, but it is
just the sort of food that men living in
the open should have to keep them in
good health und to maintain their
strength.
"As for the drilling, it is very inter
esting and not hard. The men are
working all the time, but at something
they like to do. And they feel that
they are learning and accomplishing.
I enjoy it fine." Mrs. Nutson is also
pleased with camp.
The Fourth was observed, after a
fashion, after all. At reveille, there
was a sputter of firecrackers all over
the brigade, and consequent yells of
Rockies" from the older men. During
the forenoon General Kirk sent out an
order that there would be no afternoon
drill, and this helped a little. However,
as there was rifle practice administer
ing of typhoid serum, smallpox vaccin
ation, the counting of property and
ordinance stores, and various other
little things, there little idling among
the officers. Many of the men were
busy, too. The day was warm and
sunny, and bathing in the lake was
very enjoyable.
In the "baby" company of the 33rd,
referring now to length of service only,
Capt. Henry L. Winters was compelled
to go on guard Sunday, and leave the
entertainment of the many visitors to
the other officers and the men. Others
who were on guard were, Corp. Blaine
Harrington, and Privates, Miles and
Harvey Moore. The guard detail from
Company I for Monday night are Sergt.
Holliday, Privates Frank Akins and
Adolphus Allard.
The only man in Company I on sick
report is Clyde Strong, whose back is
injured1. He is doing finely, however.
There was battalion inspection Sunday;
otherwise the day was a much ap
preciated holiday. The quarters were
fairly inundated with welcome East
Jordan visitors. The excursion brought
scores, and there were about 50 cars
which made the drive. All told, there
were about 300, including the mayor
and commissioners of the city. Prac
tically every man said: "If there is
anything we can do for the company at
any time, call on is, whether you are
here, on the border or in Mexico, and
we will do our best to come across."
The spirit manifested was so cordial
that everyone was pleased and touched
and there was a renewed determina
tion to deliver the goods, as the com
pany has been delivering in the past,
to the satisfaction of Gen. Kirk and the
regimental commander.
Camp Ferris, July 3. It is probable
that the Michigan National Guard was
never busier than it is right now. There
are many things to do and little time in
wnich to do them. Typhoid inocula
tion vaccination against smallpox, the
counting of all ordnance property that
is, rifles, haversacks, canteens, picks
and shovels, canteens and similar
articles of equipment, all are in full
swing. Thousands of new clothing
came in Sunday and this must be check
ed over, sorted and issued to the re
cruits who are still clad in civilian
clothing and to the older soldiers whose
uniforms are worn out.
Other thousands of pieces of new
ordnance are also here, still in their
original boxes, are stacked up in the
cement hall and are ready for issue,
but it will take some time and a lot of
routine and receipting before they get
into the hands of the men. And on top
of all that, the physical examinations
are not over in fact, the entire 33rd
EAST JORDAN. MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1916. ' x
COMPANY "I" 33RD INFANTRY. MICHIGAN NATIONAL' GUARD.
Infantry and part of the 32nd must face
the surgeons. It will take at least
all of Monday to complete the physical
examination of the 32nd.
There is no particular order of doing
the various things outlined above. Be
cause a company has not been muster
ed into the service is no reason why it
shall not be inoculated against typhoid
or against smallpox. The government
doesn't try to sate any serum men who
may later fall down on the physical
examination and so will never be
mustered. -
Sore arms? There is a bunch of them
in the 32nd today and there will be a
big bunch in the 33rd Tuesday. The
33rd gets its smallpox inoculation Mon
day morning. Houghton, East Jordan,
Menominee and Sault Ste. Marie, form
ing the third battalion commanded by
Major Charles I). Mathews of the Soo,
led off and will be followed by the
second battalion. At almost any
moment the medicos may swoop down
and proceed to jab with typhoid needles.
Parents who still have hopes of get
ting their sons out of the service will
find their chances steadily growing
dimmer. If the man has taken the oath
and been mustered into the service of
the United States, the . appeal must be
made to Washington. The state authori
ties, from Gen. Kirk down, no longer
have the authority to release him. If
he has not been mustered, chances are
a little brighter, but as the mustering
date for the 33rd, the only regiment
sworn in is rapidly approaching, quick
action would be necessary. And a
mighty good alibi would also be neces
sary. If your boy is in the 32nd Infantry,
he is a regular right now. The new
military law fixes his status as such,
and not as a. volunteer, as he was in the
Spanish war.
In the Spanish and Civil war, if an
officer held a commission in anything
except the regulars, he had to sign his
name on hotel registers as "U. S. V."
Under the new law, all men and of
ficers who take the oath, according to
interpretations here, are regulars, so
the officer who signs any document is
entitled to U. S. A. after his name.
The 33rd recruits will smell powder
Monday, a few jumps ahead of those of
the 31st and the 32nd. The 33rd has
no pressing business for its rookies
Monday and they will fire at 200 and
300 yards, five shots each, under direc
tion of competent non-commissioned
officers. Capt. Patterson, of the Soo,
has charge of the firing in the 33rd.
The 32nd practice Tuesday for recruits
will be directed by Lieut. Eleveld of
Grand Rapids.
Lieut. Wright and the machine gun
company of the 33rd from Flint made
such a hit as provost guard the past
two days that they will be continued.
Capt. Grossman went away Monday for
a three day leave of absence, and his
company will keep order each night in
Grayling. Lieut. Wright has proven
very efficient in this difficult position
and very few men without credentials
get into town at night. Some of them
found that by making a roundabout
journey down the railroad they could
reach the Mecca of Grayling and it
isn't much of a Mecca after one arrives.
Lieut. Wright slapped two squads onto
that railroad, and the men who tried
the flank movement received a disa
greeable surprise as they trudged town
ward. They went sadly back to cam.
Within a day or two the names of
men who have been turned down on
the physical examination will be sent
to the home cities. There is a possi
bility that there may be slight changes
later, as company commanders hiay
secure a re-examination where the men
involved are valued non-coms, with
slight defects. Generally .speaking,
however, there is little chance unless
the defect is of the eyes and the man
habitually wears glasses. There is a
possibility he may get through on reexamination,-
But if heart or lungs is
affected, or a man has hernia, his case
is hopeless. Bad teeth are also suf
ficient cause for rejecting him, especial
ly it he is shy molars, and the molars
that he has are not opposite.
The guard" detail Monday night for
Company I, 33rd of East Jordan, was
Sergt. Earl Holliday, Privates Akins,
and Harry Bouker. The guard detail
for Tuesday night is made up of Privates
Roy JJergman, Max Brail, Oris Car
penter and Frank Carman.
The men who answered sick call
Tuesday morning were Private John
McMillan, who has a cold and Private
Henry Vanderventer, who is suffering
from indigestion. Private Clyde Strong
is in the hospital, but is recovering.
Monday's drill was in extended order:
Tuesday morning the whole company
tuned out and marched down to the
lake where they picked up stones to
put around the hydrant, thus doing
away with a muddy spot. The com
pany has had typhoid prophylaxis ad
ministered, that is, the first of three
treatments, but on account of a lack of
vaccine has not been vaccinated for
smallpox yet.
Tuesday afternoon was a holiday and
in honor of the Fourth Capt. Winters
had watermelon and ice cream served.
It made a tremendous hit.
Camp Ferris, June 28. Governor
Ferris was deeply touched by the sight
of so many men in uniform, and by the
reception which they gave him. He
referred repeatedly during the day and
evening to the fine physical condition
of the men and their evident courage
and good spirits.
"I haven't very much money with
me," he said, but I would give $25 for
a panorama picture of those men as
they clustered about the bandstand and
looked up into my face. I never talk
ed to a more responsive audience.
That gathering today was historic. Let
us hope and pray that this war will not
be a serious one, but if it is, the 27th
day of June, 1U1G, becomes historic,
for the men who are on tnis camp
grounds are the ones who did not wait
for urging or compulsion,- but answer
ed their country's call instantly, cheer
fully and willingly.
"Some of the newspapers scold me
because I am not for war more strong
ly. I was at an age during the Civil
war when the sufferings of the women
and children left at home impressed me
very deeply. I don't want to wish for
such suffering. But this job which is
on our hands is necessary now, and
we must do it properly. So I am
you men body and soul."
Handling the rifle in offense
sumed the Wednesday morning
with
con
drill hour. The companies, as skirmishers,
threw themselves prone on the turf and
at the command of their officers fixed
their sights, aimed at an object some
where in the front and snapped them
at command.
For the reason that there is simply
no time for it, there has betn no prac
tice with ball ammunition. The com
pany commanders are so overcrowded
with work in teaching their recruits
the mere rudiments of soldiering, that
rifle practice cannot be attempted.
The probable disposition of the Michi-
gan troops and their duties after leav
ing here are problematical. It is as
sumed that they will not be sent to the
firing line for at least two months and
perhaps three, after going to the bord
er or the vicinity of the border, as it is
absurd to think that companies con
taining 50 per cent of new men, many
without uniforms or rifles, will be em
ployed in fighting. Until these new
men are drilled x and disciplined and
assimilated into the units to which they
belong, they would be worse than use
less1 as soldiers. Undoubtedly there
will be opportunity for target practice
on the Texas prairies.
The Michigan Central has furnished
all the necessary cars to move the 31st
Infantry south, if the 31st is first to be
sent and they clutter the sidings at
Grayling and at camp. Alternative
routings have been furnished the camp
quarter master by the central division.
The troops will go from Grayling to
Chicago via M. C, and then, if tney
are to make Nogales, Ariz., their head
quarters, the SaiKa Fe wiJ be taken.
The Rock Island if San Antonio is the
objective will be the route.
Ball ammunition, at the rate of 24,
000 rounds to the regiment, and pistol
ammunition for the organizations and
officers carrying automatics, is being
distributed. About 50 rounds of pistol
ammunition per man is the basis. Ad
ditional ammunition, the telegram
stated, will be given out by Gen. Funs
ton. If the Mexican trouble develops, it is
probable that every officer on the re
tired list who is physically fit will be
given his chance if he cares to serve.
Ruming the recruit depot here as a
feeder for the regiments at the front
will cause the employment of numer
ous drill masters, and of officers who
are qualified to teach the use of the
rifle. Then, if new regiments are
needed, the chances are that most of
the officers of the Michigan organiza
tions will be taken from Michigan,
though the war department is not
obliged to name men from this state.
Undoubtedly, for the recruit depot
alone, 40 to 50 officers, ranking from
a colonel down to second lieutenants,
will be required. As a matter of fact,
this estimate is conservative. If even
one more infantry regiment and some
auxiliary troops are called, a total of
150 officers for the depot and the active
organizations would be required.
The officers and men who submit to
physical examination are kept in a
state of suspense which in some in
stances has lasted for three days. The
Medical Reserve Corps surgeons who
were detailed here to make the ex
aminations have no authority to an
nounce their decisions until the papers
are submitted to the regular army
medico, who did not arrive in camp
until Wednesday. He has, already,
several hundred sets of records to re
view, and it may be 24 hours more be
fore his decisions are known. Of
course some of the officers receive
intimations that they are not physical
wrecks, but the information volunteer:
ed really amounts to little more than
they know themselves.
This is the descriptive blank which 13
filled out for each soldier and officer
who "takeson" with Uncle Sam: Name;
rank; age; (years and months) height,
(feet and inches); Complexion, hair
and eyes; where born; town, county,
state or kingdom; occupation; married
or single; residence; name and address
of person to be notified in case of
emergency, giving degree of relation
ship; if friend, so state; date of expira
tion of present commission or enlist
ment in state service; home station or
company rendezvous; date of appear
ance thereat.
SUN BROS. CIRCUS
BEING BILLED FOR
SATURDAY, JULY 22.
Possibly no better show will appear
here, than the Great Sun Brothers'
World's Progressive Aggregation,
which is scheduled to exhibit at East
Jordan on Saturday, Jtdy 22nd.
The traveling tented show is today
America's most popular form of out
door amusement and it is a perennial
favorite with all classes of people. The
Sun Brothers' Show for this season is a
great, big, first class exhibition, with
many stunning new features, fine hor
ses, strange animals and a host of for
eign and American novelty displays.
The largest tents ever erected in this
town are employed by this show.
Everything is done for the great com
fort of all visitors and seats are pro
vided for all patrons.
The newly added trained animal
tourney is this season a new attraction,
and includes a bunch of amazingly
trained lions, tigers, leopards, kan-
geroos, elephants, babboons, etc.
Two complete performances will be
offered here, afternoon and evening.
The usual free out-door exhibitions
will be given at noon-time, on the show
grounds, and are free to the public.
VAN PELT ON
GOOD ROADS
There are those who know, or at least
who ought to know whether what they
say is true or not, who claim that Char
levoix County, in many ways, is the
best county in the State of Michigan.
Surely, the possibilities are very great.
We have within the confines of our
county, Pine Lake, one of the finest
lakes in Michigan, and on account of
its irregular shape, with the South Arm
running to East Jordan, it is of unusual
beauty.
In order to intelligently study and
understand conditions and possibilities
of Charlevoix County, one should have
a map of the State of Michigan before
him as an aid to the thought and
answer to the question, What is the
cause for all this loud talk regarding
the best county in the state. We
have many other good counties and
why should Charlevoix County set it
self up as being the best, or having
prospects greater and more far reach
ing than any others. It is because the
natural agricultural resources and
positively the best climate that make it
so. It can duplicate all of the most im
portant products of any state in the
Union, with the exception of cotton.
We have three flourishing cities, all
having fine harbors with dock facilities
sufficient for any enterprise and low
freight rates, each city being well sup
plied with railroads and with good
prospects of having more when the
time comes for the revival of railroad
building. There is a fine roadway all
around Pine Lake and all we need is
good roads to make it perfect and to
give it a national reputation. With
these good roads, the time is not far
distant when many of the very beauti
ful building sites along this drive will
be occupied by large, substantial
houses; at least this is borne out by the
development of many other places that
have no such advantages as Charlevoix
County.
It would be well to remember that
two hundred million dollars worth of
United States money has been spent
yearly by her tourists going abroad and
a great deal of this money will be spent
in other places. Now, why not prepare
for these people, take a few of their
millions and profit thereby? They
want the goods we have to sell, but
they want them put up in nice pack
ages. Here endeth the second lesson.
SPINACH N
SPINACH A proper noun, a proper
fruit, and one that gives you health to
boot; you boil it, strain it, serve it hot
and put a cover on the pot; tho' spin
ach may prolong your life, don't load it
in you with a knife; it makes you
healthy, makes you strong, it fills you
full of hope and song, it fills you full
of courage, and it fills you full of
grit and sand; with spinach you are
bound to win be sure and have it on
your chin, for spinach is the mode this
year in presidential racing gear; don't
mind the cheap and common jokes of
bald-faced, boyish, beardless blokes; if
they quit shaving, just for sport, their
whiskers wouldn't hide a wart; the big
gest men are raising crops of spinach
served with mutton chops; if you aim
high, get in the game and grow some
grogans, wild or tame; you need your
razor not one bit, your wife will open
cans with it; take this advice and raise
a brush and it will save you much in
cush; get busy, for 'twill pay, by goshl
you've only half a face to washt
