FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
0 m
'
CmCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR
BANDIT VILLA LOOMS UP
Unconfirmed Report S ! He Is at the Head of Band of
2,000, anils Mei I kg Important Garrisons Held by
CarranzaV Troops clexican Officials Say Report Is
Made by Those WiJ kg InterventionAt Same .Time
United States Is Warned .
El Paso, Texas, July 7. Villa again looms up in the
Mexican situation, threatening Carranza's army in
northern Mexico. Unconfirmed reports to United States
officials here today declare the bandit leader himself is at
the head of over 2,000 men, in possession of Jiminez and
menacing Torreon, Gomez Palacio and other cities now
held by small Carranza garrisons.
Defeating several detachments of de facto troops
south of Parral, the rebels have been leaving a trail of
death and destruction in their wake, according to in
formation reaching state department agents.
As the Villista army advances northward hundreds
of recruits are said to be flocking to the bandit chief's
standards. If it be tine that Villa, once believed dead,
has recovered from his wounds and is leading the rebels,
officials fear that in a short time he may again have a
sufficient number of followers to challenge the large Car
ranzista army in Chihuahua state.
Government agents fear that Villa may soon approach
the American border. . " .
However, in circles friendly to Carranza it was
charged today that the reported reappearance of Villa is
a plot by interests who favor intervention and wish to
keep the American punitive expedition in Mexico.
Mexican snipers secreted in a clump of bushes on the
opposite bank of the Rio Grande yesterday fired on
Privates Jiruchen and Worden, -mounted orderlies at
tached to the Massachusetts infantry in camp here. The
shots were not returned. ' ' v '. ir-
.The body of Captain Charles Boyd probably will be
shipped east this afternoon for burial in Arlington ceme
tery at Washington. The remains of Lieutenant Henry
Adair and the seven negroes, also exhumed from the Car
rizal battlefield, will be held for a day . or two longer,
pending advices from relatives. .
As Peons Tell Story , leved in the outskirts. The Carran-
By Webb C. Miller Izista commander ordered the troopers
(United Press staff correspondent) to fall back immediately and not to
Columbus, N. M., July 7 Declaring enter the village, according to the
that Villa is alive and desires a great truckmen. An agreement was finally
rriny to fall upon the gringoea and reached lor a motor train, unguarded,
drive them from Mexico. Villista to transfer the supplies.
agents are recruiting in villages south
of the American expedition's ndvanc-j Carransa Plays Fair.
d base. . I Washington, July 7. Mexican Am-
The agitators and recruiting ngen- bassndor Arredondo, acting upon in
'ios have also been wotking among the structions from Mexico City, today no-'-nrranzistn
troops at Villa Ahmuda tified the stnte department that a large
and other gnrrisons, encouraging de- band of Villistas attacked the Cnr-t-ortion
to the bandit leaders army, rnnzn garrison at Corralitos. near Jim
They used the argument that C'arran- inez, state of Chihuahua, Wednesday,
m is in league with the United States, almost destroying it.
The Mexican natives who brought Fearing the bands might take to the
this story to the American lines, ac- desert, Carranza has asked the state
cording to motor truck mon arriving department to have the American boTd
here today, firmly believed Villa is er watched on the American side bc
nlive. tween Boquillns and Ojinaga, to pre-
The arrivals n!so reported tha-: a de- vent a raid. Carranza has promised to
tachment of the Fifth United States do his utmost on the American side to
Javalrv. narrow'!,- escaped, a Carran- intercept such an attempt if made,
r.ista trap in the village of San An- Jn order to avoid delay, the embassy
tonio, shortly nfter the Cnrrizal inci- telephoned the information to the state
dent. The detachment had-been sent department as soon as it was received
nfter a large consignment of supplies and shortily afterward a formal written
intended for Genera! Pershing's forces communication was sent,
which through design or mistake reach-
?1 San Antonio, south of the American Militia Put at Work,
line. Mexican soldiers hid in adobe Columbus, N. M., July 7. Militiamen
houses, ' covered the American troop- from Western Massachusetts have been
ers ns the leaders of the two sides par- assigned to outpost duty in the base
vv'.wwr camp here. One battalion under Major
( problem of eating in the high wind by
brother, who went putting molasses on bis knife and stick
ago t' investigate a iug the beans to it. Many of the Mas
Tilford Moot
vest some time
luinin' proposition, has returned thor
oughly recovered. Pinkey Kerr has won
a scuoiarsnip in a barber college.
tl. 11. Warren took up their lonely posts
last night in the desert surrounding
Columbus. The men remain on duty
for two hours, are relieved for the next
tour hours and so alternate for 24 hours.
The outposts were ordered to chal
lenge any moving object and to shoot j
if no answer came or they suspected j
anything. Shortly after midnight a sen
try on the post south of camp toward I
the Mexican line notimed a moving ob
ject in the mesquile bushes. He chal
lenged and, receiving no reply leveled
his rifle to fire. A burrow saved its
life by walking up to the militiaman
and muzzling in his pockets.
With the approach of the rainy season
cool winds have 'somewhat moderated
the heat. Most of the militiamen, tak
ing a tip from regular enlisted men,
have had their hair clipped short in
approved typhus hair cut style, making
easy the removal of alkali dust. Prac
tically every down-east guardsman has
j been equipped with hideous goggles of
! amber celluloid that cover the upper
half of the face. When a sand storm'
comes up the militiamen put handker
chiefs over their nostrils and mouths.
The militiamen have already acquired
a eoast of tan and are hardly dis
tinguishable from the regulars. One In
genious Yankee guardsman solved the
sachusetts men came here without forks
j ' (Continued oa Page Seven.)
AE RANGE TO EXCHANGE
CIVILIAN PBISONERS
Copenhagen, July 7. Eng-
land and Germany have agreed
to an exchange of civilian prig-.
4c oners, according to information
received by Americans here to-
day. The exchange will affect
$ many thousand Germans who
were interned in England af-
ter the Lusitania sinking and
a large number of English civ-
ilians in German internment
camps.
TO STAY IN MEXICO
' 1
May Job Carranza Forces In
Giving Battle to
Villa
By Carl D. Groat.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Washington, July 7. General Persh
ing's punitive column will not only
remain within Mexico "for the time
being" but it may even be further
south to take a whack at the Villa band
reported to have practically annihilated
a Carranza garrison near Jiminez
Wednesday. This was learned on high
authority today following a formal no
tification of the Villista-success by
Mexican Ambassador Arredondo to the
state department.
Besides state department rumors of
Villa and Villistas moving northward
in considerable force, Secretary Baker
said this afternoon he had heard sim
ilar stories from border Bources. He had
not, however, received Arredondo's re
cital of the Corralito fight until he re
turned from the cabinet meeting.
The cabinet determined that the
border situation does not yet warrant
withholding any of the militia now in
state concentration camps or any pres
ent proposal for replaying militia by an
increase of the regular army.
Russia and Japan ,
J t 'Form New Alliance
London, . July 7. The new Russo
Japanese, treaty provides that Russia
and Japan shall confer with tie object
of defending their territorial or spe
cial interests in the Far East by joint
action, according to a summary pub
lished hero today.
"Mutual consultation measures will
be taken with a view to support and
cooperation in the mutual safeguarding
and defense of those rights and inter
ests," the summary stated.
. The treaty further provides that
neither Japan nor Russia shall be a
party to any political arrangement or
combnintion against the other, The
purposes of the agreement, it is stat
ed, are to maintain lasting peace in the
Far East.
FUEL OIL HIGHER.
San Francisco, July 7. Tho price of
fuel oil is increased five cents a narrel
today by the Standard Oil company of
California. A barrel of 42 gallons now
costs 05 cents. Producers of this oil,
it was announced, will receive an ad
vance of five cents for every barrel.
Would Remove Present
y And Prevent Any Future
Causes of Border Trouble
By Bobert J. Bender.
(United Press staff co-respondent.)
Washington, Julv 7. Declaring "tho
government of the United States is pre
pared immediately to exchange views as
to a practical plan to remove finally
nnd prevent a recurrence of the diffi
culties which have been the cause of
controversy," Secretary of Htate Lans
ing dispatched to Mexican Ambassador
Arredondo today a reply to Ueneral
Carranza's note of July 4.
lhe American government comments
favorably in the note of the "frank
statement of the difficulties which
have unfortunately arisen," and ex
pressed gratification over the "unre
served expression of the desire of your
government to reach an adjustment."
Arredondo will immediately telegraph
the note to the Mexican foreign office,
and it is expected that he will at once
be instructed to begin the desired ne
gotiations with the state department.
Acting Secretary of State Polk will
conduct the negotiations for the depart- j
ment in the absence of Secretary Lans- j
ing, who leaves on bis vacation this aft-!
ernoon.
It is understood that a practical plan
already considered favorably by repre
sentatives of the two governments n
advance of the drafting of today's note,
is for a commission to study the whole
problem and make recommendations to
the heads of the two countries. -Text
of Note.
The note delivered today by Secretary j
Lansing to Ambassador Arredondo in re ¬
ply to that received Taesday from For
eign Becretary Aguilar, follows;
"Sir: I have the honor to acknow
ledge the receipt of your communica
tion of July 4, 1916, In which you sub
SALEMOREGON, FRIDAY,
H ITHER AID
THAIl MAKEVAR ON
MEXICAN PEOPLE
Cabinet Discusses Plans to
Place Mexico On Firm
Footing
$100,000000 WOULD BE
NEEDED FOR THIS WORK
Nothing Can Be Done How
ever Until 'Government
Shows It Is Stable
. By Bobert J. Bender
(United Press staff correspondent)
Washington, July 7. President Wil
son proposes to allow General Carran-
7.1 himself to suggest the best means
by which this country can aid Mexico
to solve her difficulties. This, it was
stated today, is the most important
reature or . tne note Irom, . Secretary
Lansing to Mexican Foreign Secretary
Agunar, accepting tne latter s propos
al for direct . negafiations.
The note, in completed form, was
gone over ty tliftf president aud his
cabinet in a long session today. It
was expected, to be forwarded to Mex
ico City, by . Ambassador. Arredondo
before nigjt.
The session., was expected to mark
the second step by the president; in
working ont the Mexican question.
Primarily the cabinet had for con
sideration Secretary Lansing 'b formal
reply to Secretary Aguilur's pacific
note. This formally accepts the idea
of direct - negotiations and, it is. un
derstood, indicates the willingness of
this government to go a long way in
helping restore the. shattered republic.
Other problems of prime importance
before the cabinet were:
First, what is to be done about
guarding the border and permitting
Carranza to establish a parallel patrol
in cantonments on his side of the line.
' Second, what to do about sending
militiamen on the border to their
homes with the incidental increase, in
the regular army to fill their places. ,
' Third, and basically most import
ant, what to do ,to place Mexico on a
firm footing among the nations.
With respect to the latter, the ad
ministration feels that it cannot at
present encourage bankers to extend
aid in Mexico. lint it is hopeful Car
ranza can now take a strong guiding
hand which will ensure a stable gov
ernment ultimately and thus afford
the opportunity for American financial
aid.
One hundred million dollars, accord
ing to a high government official
would be the salvation of the stricken
nation, if it could be obtained upon
other than confiscatory terms. The
great fear is, however, that ' ' loan
sharks" may demand Mexico as their
collateral, a proposition which Carran-
(Continued on Page Four.)
scribe a note addressed to me by the
secretary of foreign relations of your
government, and to request that you
transmit to him the following reply:
" 'Mr. Secretary: I have the honor to
acknowledge the receipt of your court
eous note transmitted to me by Seuor
Arredondo on the fourth instant, in
which you refer to my note of June 20
and June 25, and to assure you of the
sincere gratification of my government
that the frank statement of the diffi
culties which have unfortunately arisen
in our relations along the international
boundary and tho unreserved expression
of the desire of your government to
reach an adjustment o'f these difficul
ties on a broad and amicable basis. The
same spirit of friendship and of solici
tude for the continuance of cordial re
lations' between our two countries in
spired my government which equally
desires an immediate solution of the dif
ferences which have long vexed both
governments.
" 'It is especlclly pleasing to my
government that the de facto govern
ment of Mexico is disposed to give quick
as well as practical consideration" In a
spirit of concord to the remedies which
may be applied to the existing condi
tions. Reciprocating the same desire,
the government o the United States
is prepared immediately to exchange
views as to a practical plan to re
move finally and prevent a recurernre
of the difficulties which havo been the
source of controversy.'
" 'Accept, Mr. Secretary, the renew
ed assurance of my highest considera
tion. "I am. sir,
"Yours very sincerely,
"ROBERT LANSING."
JULY 7, 1916
GULF STATES ARE
DAMAGE IS GREAT
Details Are Meager-As Wires
Are Down Yet in Many
. Places
ESTIMATE SAY LOSS OF
IJFE IS ABOUT EIGHTY
Big Bridge at Pensacola De
stroyedLoss Will Run
Into Millions
Gale 104 Miles An Hour
: Jacksonville, Flaw, July 7. Pour
prominent citizens of St." Auuustine
are dead today as a result of the tor
rential rains and heavv wind of yes
terday. Whipped by tho tail of the
tornado that struck Mobile- and Pen
sacola, the rain blinded E. P. Coe,
wealthy turpentine manufacturer who
was driving an automobile in which H.
B. Parris, John NeweuD and John E.
Ouigley were riding. All were killed
when the car skidded into a freight
train near r.ixion.
Reports so far received have filtered
in over shaky wires. So far as could
be learned today, no lives have been
lost in Pensacola although it was there
that the full brunt of the gale broke.
It is feared property damage at Pen
sacola will greatly exceed that of Mo
bile. Some reports, still unconfirmed, said
government property at. Pensacola. in
cluding flying apparatus and buildings
suffered heavy damage. Nearly all the
Government muidings are located on
the water front which thi last com
munication from PeusacoJft, over 48
hours ago, said was - being furie.Uf.ly
lashed 4y giant seas and wind. '
' Wind -.velocity at some points was
said to have reached 104 miles an aonr
Wednesday afternoon.
Crop damage about Tallahasee ami
in southern Alabama will be heavv.
Some crops for acres were totally de
stroyed. . 1
Railroads in the same section - also
were hard hit. in many places it will
require much time to repair damage
before even temporary service can be
resumed.- -
Eighty Persons Missing
New Orleans, La., July 7. More
than eighty persons are missing, ac
cording to reports reaching here at
seven o'clock this morning from vari
ous sources. The radii to Mobile and
Pensacola was working fairly well at
this hour and it is thought the loss
from Thursday s hurricane will be
known some time this afternoon.
Munv ships are missing. The Frieda
Captain Wick, with a crew of twenty
one, New Orleans to Progreso, Mexi
co, is two days overdue and it is fear
ed she went down. A schooner with
sixteen aboard, which left Gultort
Thursday afternoon . is still unheard
f rom.
Reports from Chandler, Miss., said
(Continued on Paee Six.)
TODArS BALL SCORES
National
R. II. E.
New York 2 0 2
Kttshiirg H 8 3
Anderson and liuridcn; Jacobs and
Wilson.
R. II. E.
Hrooklvn 4 7 3
Cincinnati II 4 2
Pfeffer nnd McCnrly; Knetzer and
Wingo.
R. II. E.
Boston 0 1 0
Chicago 14 4
Allen and dowdy; Packard and Fish
er. R. II. E.
Philadelphia 1 ! 1
St. Louis 0 fi 1
Alexander and Killiter; Meadows
and Gonzales.
American.
R. H. E.
Chicago ... 3 11 0
New York 4 9 2:
Wolfgang, Scott and Schalkj Mog
ridge aud Nuuainakcr. 12 innings. I
n. n. e.
Detroit 14 2
Philadelphia 2 10 3
Covaleskl and Stannge; Meyers, Wil-'
Itams and Aleve r, juurpny.
B. II. E.
St; T.ouis S 7 0
Washington 0 0 7
Plank and Chapman; Johnson and
Ainsmith.
B. . H. , K.
Cleveland 1 4 3
Boston 2 C 0
Beebe, Bsgby and O'Neill; Ruth,
Muyi and Thomas.
HURRICANE
nrTr-c irnrn
A AVXVU illW
Department of Safety
Forbids Bare Knees
Atlantic City, N. J., July 7. Summer
maids, with dimpled knees, must stop
parading me oeacn in enorus girl aqua
tic costumes. , This was the order hand
ed down, the first Teform edict of the
season, and today the mackintosh man
is saving the modesty of the conserva
tive. Daily processions of pretty girls in
abbreviated "Burf attire" have been
stopped and blushing oops have been ap
pointed censors of beach raniment.' Com
ing from the department of public safe
ty, the order is regarded as sinister. '
If Have Others Dependent On
Them Can Be Released
from Service
Washington, July 7. Though having
no statistics on the number of national
guardsmen with dependent - families,
war department -orticials today esti
mated not more than 1,000 men will
be discharged under Secretary Baker's
permit to department commanders to
tree such men from, service.
Hundreds of letters asking release
of men with families have reached the
department, but many of these dupli
cated the same cases. -.'
In freeing the men, the states will
give them an honorable discharge and
must tuen recruit others to fill their
places "' The guardsmen who wish to
escape service may make affidavit at
any time that his family is in need of
his Bupport-and 'the department com
mander can free him without . other
ceremony or formality.
The war department believes there
will be an extremely large number of
cases where men who have families will
not claim exemption,, becauso there is
a nest egg tucked away, in the bank
or other bread 'Wifiners in the family.
ALLIES CONTINUE TO -
GAINOOLiFRONIS
Austro-Hungary Hard Hit Be
tween Russian and
Italian Drives
By Ed L. Keen. .
(United Press staff correspondent.)
London, July 7. British troops re
lumed their great offensive against the
Germans at dawn today, with simul
taneous smashes aguinst the Germun
lines on a wide front.
An official statement from Goneral
Hnig given out at 2:45 this afternoon,
announced a Btriking British success
east of LcBoiaclle, where 1,000 yards of
German trenches were taken, and the
capture of several important tactical
positions.
The official statement from the Her
man war office this afternoon reported
violent fighting on both banks of the
Homme, but contained no admission of
allied gains.
The Germans, however, admitted a re
tirement under heavy Russian attack
near l.zartory, ami announced tnat tne
Russians delivered strong attacks
against Von Hindeuburg's front in the
north. These attacks, however, were re
pulsed. The Italian war office reported anoth-
er victory for the great allied offensive!
in tho fighting cn the Trentino front.
Italian troops captured two important
sections near Cascrazebio and Malgnpos
su, repulsing a violent counter attuck
and driving back t lie Austriuns with
heavy losses.
"this morning we resumed a vigor
ous offensive st dawn," reported Gen
eral Haig.
"Tho Germans simultaneously launch
ed heavy attacks against our new
trenches near the Ancre brook and
north of - Fric-ourt, resulting in violent
fighting between the Ancre and Mon
tuubnn and in the vicinity of Ovillcrs
and l.alioiselle ami Contulmuisoo.
"Severul important tntical successes
were gained. East of I.uBoisellc severe
fighting occurred with heavy enemy
casualties. We captured 1,000 ysrds of
a German trench.
"Northwest of Thlepvnl the enemy
temporarily regained two or three hun
dred vards of lost ground.
"During last night the enemy heavily
bombarded our new positions in Bcr
nay wood, at Montaubun and near La
Boiselle, some times using lachrymos
shells. '
"At tlio Loos salient the enemy ar
tillery was particularly active nnd also
opposite Hulluch."
Berlin's Version of It.
By Carl W. Ackerman.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Berlin, July 7. A severe check has
been administered to the British army
in the combined Anglo-French offensive
according to reports received here today
anil the British have suffered unusual
ly heavy losses.
Since the opouing day of the British
(Continued en Fagr, Tw)
(wtto OK .'RAINS AND NEWB
iO RTANTIB FIVB (TFWT
DISEASE SPREADS
TO OTHER CITIES -
IS
Health Officers Say Most
Drastic Remedies Have
-No Effect
ONE DEAD AT CHICAGO
MANY CASES IN ILLINOIS
Cleveland Reports Five Cases
and Philadelphia Stirred
By Two
New York, July 7. Overworked
board of health officials who save been
striving unsuccessfully to kill thd in
fantile -paralysis epidemic here, admit
ted today their belief that the scourge
probably would continue throughout th
summer. So virulent has been the out
break that none of the drastic measures
heretofore, found effective ia dealing
with it have served to check its spread.
The mortality continues at abont 24 per
cent higher than ever recorded! in pre
vious outbreaks hore. c
. " We have. gone the limit in talcing
every known precaution to prevent tha
epidemic's spread," said Dr. Emerson,
health commissioner, "and yet I have
no confidence that we are meeting with
success. I look to see the outbreak eoa
tlnuo throughout the summer."
Health board officials are anxiously
awaiting the. arrival here of federal pub
lic health service surgeons and empi
deinic experts whose aid was promised .
yesterday by Secretary of the Treas
nry McAdoo. ... ... ... ... , . , . ., .
It was estimated today that the total
number of cases has reached 730. Sine
the outbreak of the disease there have
been 165 daths; -i .v-,
California i Careful. '' : ' '
Sacramento, Cal., July 7. Believing
that the one chance of the infantile
paralysis epidem'o reaching California,
lies in the transportation of an afflict
ed person across the boundary, State
Health Officer W. A, Sawyer, has to
day sent a communication to Murgeea
General Rupert Blue of tha United
States public health service request
ing co-operation in preventing the pas
sage of dangerous persons into Califor
nia. While it is not possi bio to. es
tablish a quarantine, a close surveil
lance will bo kept along the bound
ary.
Two enscs of infantile paralysis were
reported in California during May and
three during June. This is not out of
the ordinary. The lust big epidemic or
poliomyelitis in this state was ia Los
Angeles in 1012, when there were 500
cases reported and 121 deaths.
One Case in Kansas.
Topeka, Kans., July 7. A case oi in
fantile paralysis in Cowley county was
reported this morning to Dr. S. J. Crum
bine, secretary of tho stute board of
health. Tncrc were a large number of
exposures to the case and some fear ia
entertained that an epidemic may re
sult. rive Cases In Cleveland.
Cleveland, Ohio, July 7. The fifth
case of infantile paralysis was reported
to tho health officials today. No deaths
have occurred but city officials are
planning a more rigid campaign against
flies nnd dirt. All babies arriving
from Now York aro examined. .
Ten Deaths In Chicago.
Chicago, July 7. The death of one
child from infantile paralysis and dis
covery of several cases hore prompted
health authorities today to take steps to .
prevent the epidemic assuming propor
tions similur to the wave of disease in
New York.
Scvoral cases were reported down
state. Ten deaths from infantile pa
ralysis have occurred in Chicago since
January 1, lUlfl, about the average for
the disease here.
. Two Cases in Philadelphia.
Philadelphia, July 7. The discovery
of two cases of infantile paralysis in
this city has led to drastic action to
day by health authorities to prevent a
repetition here of the New York epi
demic. 5 THE WEATHER S
-
Oregon: To
night and Satur
day fair; north
easterly winds.
UNCONTROLLED
