The Dot Pictures
An Instructive and Interesting
Feature for Little Fol^s.
fUdjmonii Cime^Pispcitch
The Grip of Evil
Read This Thrilling Story Each
Day in The Times-Dispatch
VOI.VNK i)S
N't'MHKH IH.t
\\ KATIIUK
CAOH H
?CLEAR
PRICE. TWO CENTS
GERMAN SUBMARINE SINKS SIX~SHIPS
OFF EASTERN COAST OF UNITED STATES
KRONSTADTLOST
BY ROUMANIANS
Austro-German Forccs Retake
Important Center in
Transylvania.
ADMITTED BY BUKHAREST
,
Armies Withdraw for Better
Defense of Frontier
Passes.
LONDON. October S.?On none of tin*
various battle fields In Kurope has any \
material change taken place. Proba
bly the mo.st important development
Is the forced withdrawal of the Itou- ,
manlan troops in the rejrion of Kron-j
stadt, PoRarax and Hcrmannstadt. in)
the fa.-e of superior forces. mainly |
made up i,T Germans. in the opera
tion the Austro-German fortes again;
recaptured Kronstadt, the most im
portant commercial city in Transvl
v a n t a.
In the Dohrudja region of Itoumania.
'he Itu^sians and Roumanians arc ad
vancing southward against the Teu
tonic allies. according to Hukhareat.
In Macedonia, the contending Hides
have l/pon engaged for the most part
m artillery duel.". a like condition
prevails on the Austro-Italian front.
On the Western front in France, the
Itrltlsh have captured all of the town
'?f l.e Sars, and also made gains north
and northeast of Courcelette, ati?l
Mouth west of Uueu decourt. The Ger
mans have recaptured from the Brit
ish portions of trenches that had br.-n
taken from th'-m in the region north
of L'S lloeufs.
I\ ItONHTA II'l* IICI AI'Tl IJi :i>
IIV U STHO-CiHllMAV KOIICKS
M'/IILI.S, October f (via London).?
The city of Kronstadt, fti the south
eastern part of Transylvania, and its
'' ''diiit? Industrial and commercial cen
ter, which was occupied by the llou
mansatis shortly after their entry into
the war. has boen recaptured by me
Auhtr.j-tJcrman forces, the War Ollicc
announced to-day.
hi i\ ii a in; vr admits tiii:
W ITIIDIIAWAI, nr THOOI'S
HI KIlAfJKST, October "> ivia Lon
don I. In the face ?if far superior
fore-, ma in I \ German, the Roumanian
troops. from I lorinannstadt to I '.ran so
< Kronstadt I. have been withdrawn to
? he Carpathian frontier, according t>>
the oflicial communication from Rou
manian headquarters, to insure hotter
defense of the frontier passes
NO I >1POIITA NT ACTION
Al.o.vc nom.mk ritnvi
I'AIJIS, October V?Afternoon of
ficial: "The night was rainy and pass
ed without any event of importance <>n
the Somine front.
"Chip aviators have corrected the
range on the Somme front.
"Our aviators bombarded Moislaincs
and Vaux wnod, north of Peronne."
The midnight oflicial: "On the Sonime
there were intermittent bombardments
by the artillery of both sides.
"After violent artillery preparation,
the Germans launched against our new
positions we, st of Saillv an attack,
whose successive waves were broken
by our barrier fire without one of
'hem reaching out; trenches.
"In the Woevre, our heavy artillery
bombarded some convoys and ramps.
The railroad station of Thinuoourt
also was bombarded. ?
"On the remainder of this front there,
were no events of importance.
"Army of the Orient: The flghtlntr
continues at the bend of the Oerna
and near Lake Prcspa. The Serbians
have occupied the summit of Pobro
polje, while the I* reneh are masters
of Kisovo and Mount Habit.
"There is nothing to report on the
remainder of the front."
(ii:ilM.l.\M lUCCOVICIt I'AUT
OK I'll Kill l,o.KT TRKM/HK.S
LONDON*. October S.?Afternoon of
licial: "Yesterday afternoon the en
emy counterattacked our new posi
tion north of Los Poeufs and recovered
a sin.ill portion of their lost trenches.
Klsetvhcre wo secured our gains and
more than f#00 prisoners already are
reported.
"North and northeast of Cource
lette we advanced our front. The en
emy delivered nn attack on the Schwa
l.en redoubt, but was completely re
pulsed. Successful raids were carried
out during the night by Irish, Midland
and Yorkshire troops in the Knunuis
siaft. Givi-nohy and Loos areas."
LAMBROS TO FORM CABINET
Prnfrftnnr of Illntory In University of
Athens Consent* to Organize
Ministry In Greece.
LONDON, October R.?A Renter dis
patch from Athens to-day says:
"Professor Spyrldon P. Lmnbros.
author of many historical works,
member of numerous learned socie
ties and occupant of the chair of his
tory In University of Athens, has been
asked to form a service Cabinet.
"The result of the latest attempt to
form ? Cabinet is not exfteci >d to de
velop until Monday, when Prince An
drew arrives here. in court circles
it la believed tluit King Constantino Is
nwaiting hl8 brother's report on atti
tude of the French and British gov. J
rrnmenti to guide- his course."
<
American Coastwise
Patrol to Be Increased
I Nitre I n I In Tin- 't liurn-l>lH|Mlt?-h.|
A SH I.Mi'I'in, Orlnlirr S.? In the
lirllrf Ihiil more I linn our nii I > its ii rlrtr
thr roiini, iirdrrN wfrr Kiven
liv llir >a\? IJrpn rt men I to-nlglit
l?i lncrt-n*tc the A incrii-n n cou?t\>isc
patrol "Itliin ilir three-mile limit.
I III* ulll lir done In the interest ?if
neutrality. 'I'lir I nltril State* Iiiim
nltvajn protected nlirn It nox nl
Irgril thnt n Itritlsli nliip invaded
thr thrre-milc limit In pursuit or
nttaek. ii nil nu rnvort olil lie hIiimtii
to lirrnian) in tliiia rmprot.
?Nil |<r<>tri'tIon \illl lie ulvrn Iif thr
I nlted Stair* to vcxHrl* nftrr tlir.v
pimx iiiif?lrir the three-mile limit.
Ah in tlir iu?r of thr l)r u tMchllind,
"lien thr Mlilp In oner on thr high
wrnn. Aiiirrlen'N duty In done. It
Hien up ti> tlir nillrn to proterf
their traimport und troop mIiIiim from
tierimin niihmn rinm. I.rrinnnr ran
operntr lit large n Href of tliene un
dersea liontn ootwiile tlir t h rrr.nille
Ilnr hi ihr plennrM. no fnr 111 thin
country In eonerrnril.
STE/IBNES MAKES DENIAL
, OF SAUNDERS'S CHARGE
Says Abortion That Hi- ("-???! Kduca
tioiitt 1 I'apor as Campaign .Me
dium Is "l.'tterly I'alse."
KI)IT()lt IIVKKKTT HITS HACK
lleclaro ||<> Had No Intention of
I'MiiK Criming Contract t?> Win or
.\nit>ni "I'olit icjil I loss of Kith
intuit).**
Vl I'Klisiiasit ami 'inphati. denial
was entered ?>> S,ate Sup. rime r,t of
I'ublrc Instruction I: <" Stearnes last
'"Kill to the charge made hy Clyde
j ^ . .-aunders, uf ItichmoniJ, that lie
hail intertci 11. the Virginia Journal
of Kducatiori campaign documents de
signed to further his light for re.
election next year.
".Such a charge is utterly false," said
j Mr. Stoarties. -The so-called \lo, ?
| moni.s' consisted of a list of teachers
of the State, a paper regarding the
certification of teachers'. and mv of
ficial address before the annual Vir
ginia Conference uf Kducation. The
| latter paper simply reviews the work
of the schools during the preceding
year. and is treated as , otlicial d..c
tmietit <?!" record. 'I'll.--.- paper- are
?ill in nature anil aie inserted
as supplements in the Journal in order
thai they may reach the teachers d! -
rectly, thus saving a douhle transmis
sion through ihe hands ..f t|division
superintendents "
KVKIIK1T A I,XI t|.\K|;s
I'i'A'i' i>i:\im, of i ii\iti,r:
Addressing hiinvlf direitlx to ilie
charge ina.le hy Mr. .Saunders, that
Kditor J. W. llvereti. of the Virginia
Journal of lalucation. had asked him
to promise his polin.-al support to
Superintendent stearins. >.f the State
Department ,.f public In -1 rm t ion. and
Hint because of his failure i,, d.. so.'
Hie contract for printing tin- l-.iimal
was taken a wax from his Mr in. Mr.
Kverett last night mad.- the followltm
st ;i t e in en t
"Mr. Saundei? charges that I asked
liirn to 'pledge his political support* to
Mr. Stearnes. l did not do so. re
lieving him to lie a political friend of
Mr. Stearnes. I said to him upon one
occasion ihat rumors had reached Mr.
Stearnes that he was opposing him, and
I simply suggested that h? - deny these
reports to Mr. Stearnes. ;i> I thought
that a false impression, calculated to
injure both gent lonrcn, might result
by a further circulation of said ru
mors. I had no reason to ask his sup
port, as I helicv.d that Mr. Stearnes
already had it. After" further conver
sation. Mr. Saunders dually said that
he would try to sec Mr. Stearnes the
early part of the following week.
"I never in any way, shape or form
attempted to -lie up- the puhlicat ion
of the Journal with Mr. Stearness po
litical interests, nor with the inter
ests of any one else My one reason
for mentioning the ' political situation
at all was the natural interest I felt
in the welfare of a warm personal
friend. llad I been disposed to ad
vance Mr. Stearnes's political interests
by a business ileal. I should have
counted the result costly indeed had it!
caused me to affront the chairman of
the City Democratic Committee and the .
secretary of the Third District Demo
cratic Committee and the gentleman
who hears the reputation of being the !
'political boss of Richmond.*
A I.SO l)i:.MI-:s CIIA.VflK IN
IMtlNTINt; Sl'KCiriCATIOXS i
"In my hasty denial of the charge of
Mr. Saunders that the printing of the
Virginia Journal of Kducatiori had been
taken from him because he had re
fused to support Superintendent
Steames" s political interests, I was 1
forced for lack of time to dohy an- j
other charge of a personal nature.
"Mr. Saunders charges that I fur
nished him with specifications as to |
paper different from those furnished his
competitor. This is entirely incorrect.
In asking bids for printing the Journal
in June, 1 submitted Identical samples
of paper to both firms. Upon these
Mr. Saunders refused to hid. In July.
I agnin asked Mr. Saunders to make
a hid. Again he declined to be speclfl ?,
alleging the uncertainty of the paper
oarket. As he would not he specific
i any hid on any paper, l closed with
-.il? competitor.
"f will use his own statement to
(Continued on" Third i'ngc.~) '
Superbas Undaunted and Deter'
mined to Kven Matters
With Red Sox.
RUTH AND COOMBS TO-DAY
Believed Carrigan Will Send
Southpaw Against Right
Hand Moundsman.
i:< >STO.V. October $.?Wit!i a 'lay of
ro.vt at the.ir backs. the Boston Aincri
caiis and the Brooklyn Nationals will
renew their battle for world champioti
ship honors at Braves' Field to-nior
row, when thev meet in the second
game of the serio*. Kvery player was ]
reported on edge. to-night by their re- J
sportive managers and rafter to. re
new thn conflict.
The American League champions arc
convinced that the advantage of a one
game victory in such a short series
really simplifies tlx- capturing of the
title,, while Brooklyn, nothing Haunted
by the defeat of Saturday, is prepar
ing to reverse the derision in Mon
day's game and thus return to their
home park on even terms with the Hod
Sox.
The local weather forecaster to
night assured the players and fans
that it will be possible to play the
second game as scheduled, and then
move to Brooklyn for the third.
Those who witnessed the opening
play claim to have seen nothing to
arouse fear in their breasts that the
record of unbroken victories for Bos
ton teams in past world's series is to
be upset. They are willing to concede
j that the ltrooklyn team ts a game.
I hard-working group of players, but
I contend that there is lacking the
smooth, machine-like effectiveness of
the Red Sox.
oi'i'icu onn> o\ itr.ii so\. uuibi-:
IM.AYISItS KX.IDV SIMM V ltl>T
I They strengthen their opinions by
willingness to wager on the outcotuc
of the series and offering odds rang
i ing around ^ to 1 on the Boston club.
with few takers.
I Neither team indulged in practice to
! day. the players resting. The nearest
approach to exercise was short walks
'or automobile trips into the country
for a few hours.
The chief topic of convetsation and
argument among fans to-day was based
upon choice ol pitchers for to-mor
row's name. It was generally believed
that Carrigan would use either Kuth
or l?eonard, while Robinson would
conntei with either Coombs or PfelTer.
In either case the Red So\ will have
;t, southpaw in the box against the
Superbas, while Boston will face a
right-hander, since Brooklyn played
its best left-hander when Marquard
pitched Saturday.
The gathering of spectators for to
morrow's game will be watched with
more than ordinary interest, since
there is a wide difference .of opinion
among baseball magnates here regard
ing the reason for the falling off sti
attendance at Saturday's contest as
compared with the games played here
a year auo. there being 6.000 less than
the opening game here last fall and
,">.000 less than the second contest.
Itl MOMS OK Ml <;K. ( IIOWIIS
l\ KM I* MANY KAN'S KIIO.M IIAtlH
Two explanations are offered, t'ne
, is that a great number of persons made
no attempt to attend, upon the sup
position that there would be no chance
of getting inside the park, owing to
the rumors of huge crowds. The other
is that the world's series is no longer
a novelty in Boston.
Another puzzling feature was the
rather apathetic bearing of the thou
sands who were present. One mag
nate advanced the opinion that this
i was not due to any lack of interest
j in the game, because Boston was le,?.i
ing. but came about as the result of
tlio composition of the crowd. Mr
said:
"It was a '55 crowd.' and by that I
mean it was composed to a great ex
tent of persons who arc accustomed to
attending the theater, opera and like
amusements and who express their ap
proval or interest in a rather mild
maimer from the baseball standpoint.
, Many, too. were not the close follow
ers of the game, and the play in its
intricate places went over their heads.
The. Brooklyn team, no whit depress
ed by yesterday's defeat, believes that
once the "breaks" favor them they will
be victorious. The Brooklyn players
agree with their manager that it was
Marry .Hooper who broke tin* building
offensive of the Brooklyn.*- in the
fourth inning when he made a mar
velous catch of t'utshaw's seeming safe
hit and then, after half falling to tho
ground, recovered himself and, by a
fast line throw, got Wheat at the plate.
rrrrniNi; ok snows hbi.m.s
4'ONKlDISNCIS TO HHOOKI.YN
The Brooklyn players do not think
the Boston system of a run at a time
will prevail against their heavy at
tacks, and what has imbued them with
confidence of victories tV? come is the
pitching of Ernest Shore.
Manager Robinson says that nil his
players remarked that Shore did not
have much on the ball except of fade
away. which seemed to puzzle "Jack"
Daubrrt more than any one else.
While Manager Robinson would nor.
?ay who his hurler would be for to.
.norrow'H game, It wah said lit the
hotel where the Hrooklyn club is stop
ALL IN READINESS
FOR STATE FAIR
Gates Will Open This Morning
at 9 for Eleventh Annual
Exhibition.
SHOWS VIRGINIA'S RESOURCES
Agriculture. Cattle, Horses and
Handicraft of Women Have
Their Place.
W !ule i no shadows of evening were
'??ng thenlns into tlir gloom of night
the .Ktatp Fair Grounds ycstorrlav wore
being put into condition for Virginia's
eleventh annual exhibit of h<-r Indus
tt*in 1 and asririiliural resources, the
handicraft of h^r women and children,
of her caiilf, iirr horses. her pigs, her
j flircp, her fowls a n<l all the things'
. which ao tn make .-1 vrc.it agricultural
| State.
While Mock men were placing cattle
in the stall, while chicken growers
wore ooor-in- up their fowls, an.I while
women wore putting the dainty
touches on tlM'ir handiwork and thiv
results uf tltr-ir culinary art. the no
| muds were lifting up their tents on
i Midway ,md liallyhoo I .a tic with the
quick. unquiet precision with which
they a Uavs work.
W hen th'- last faint glow disappeared
in the West there was still much to
? he ''one. and the laborers continued at >
their work by moonlight. Some of the
electric lights went turned on, but they J
were not sufficient ft lone. Kortunfttely !
' the night wa? clear, and by midnight |
the grounds were practically in readt- !
ness for the oncoming of the throngs'
t o-day.
t.ATIOJS TO 1*1 III.IC
AT t> THIS .MIIHM.m;
1 be ^atfs will lie opened to the gen
eral public this morning at r> o'clock
and agnitt to-night at S j clock. Presi
dent 1-airfax Harrison will be present '
at the opening, and will lend bis pres
ence through the week. lie has ap- '
piied and is applying all his business |
; energy to the success of the fair, and
It bids to rival all those which have
gone before.
It was noticcable that the live sto-k
exhibit is not so large a* upon the
corresponding day in previoi* fairs: ?
but there a re other- exhibits on the way
from othe.i fairs, and many are expect
ed in to-day. One of the most inter- J
cstlne features, especially to the rac- j
int; fraternity, will be the showing bv '
K O. Hillings, owner of Curie's Xeck ;
I'arrn. of his famous racing horses. !
Lou I ?Jlion. The Harvester and Uhlan,
bolder of the world's record for the
mile trot. Mr. Rllltuqs will ride Uhlan I
on Wednesday. The other two will be
on show every day.
*T\I,I.S l-Mtlt lli:i.|- AM)
IMIHY CATTI.K \KAItl.V I'll.MOD
Stalls for beef and dairy cattle arc
nearly idled. Sheep and pig-pens are
tathei empty, most of the ponies are
in. but the horses are still to arrive.
Cattle cotno from as far as New .ler
se\ and Pennsylvania. The rest of
the live stock comes mainly from Vir
ginia. and the domestic showing, it is
expected, will compare fa\ oh'ibly with
any that has been exhibited before.
of fowl, there is a vast and varied
profusion. One building was tilled to
overflowing, and a tent had to be. put
up to care f or the extra exhibits.
Hehind the Administrative Kuilding,
ducks and geese of every size and
name sport In a small pond built espe
cially for their benelit, and about the
wire fence enclosing them a large
crowd ? lung through the afternoon,
watching the web-footed fowl cleaning
themselves and displaying their swim
ming and diving proclivities.
The building set apart for the dis
ida\ of women's needlework and cook
er\ was the inccca of a thousand peo
ple who by means known only to
themselves managed to slip by the
gatekeepers and g> i into the grounds
without so much as a bv-your-leave.
Her.- one may see everything from a
quilt to a table napkin, everything
from a Jar of pickle to a loaf of 'bread.
And a little way off. in the Adminis
trative Uitilding. the Kqual Suffrage
l.eague of Virginia has erected a booth
front which to preach its plea for the
franchise. The women are very much
in evidence. They have practically a
monopoly of the lunch booths, which
are scattered over all the grounds.
There will be no lack of victuals and
r? freshinents. the hitter of the kind
i termed soft.
Kor the comfort of the visitors,
t Continued on Lint Page.)
; Watch World Series
on T.-D, Score-Board
1 The tvorlil aerlea. play by piny,
j will hr nIiowii <mi the mi-nre-l?onrtl
m 'I lie Tlino-l)i*piitell Unfiling
(tilling onch of the gnine* ilik it cel..
'I lie annoiiiieeiiietit In lit line with
the policy of the pnper to furnlah
b* reader* the ttrat new* of all auch
blR event*, and in hut one of the
aevernl feature* through vrhtch The
Tlmea-niapatch la kee|>lnir lta read
era Informed of every move made by
plnyera on the battling tenma.
StRneil atorlea l?y bnaelinll experta.
In nddltlon to tlie Axaoelnteil J'reaa
reporta, are telilngr em-h ilny of the
work done hy the vnrfoua player*.
Allied Ships Will Rush
to New England Coast
Is|M'i-IhI to The Tliiiin-I>f*pn<ch.|
W A S ll I X ti TO !V. October S
'I'll much oni* of the allied eiiil>ii>Hlen
II nnit learned Io-hIkIh tlmi Kn-ni'H
iiikI llrltlnli crill*('r? oh tin- Atlantic
const Trere in confrrrtUT l?y ruillo.
Three cruiaern wfrr oil llnmpton
It on tlx, unil Iwii or three oil' ,\rw
\ orU. It nmi mild tlint nil hut one
of the ?nrxli Ipx miiuIiI rush ti> the
Nnv Knglnntl const.
I liroucli the *nmr source It ?n*
ascertained tlmt tlir allien vrinilil
hurry ?iir?hl|i?i from llrrmiiilii 11111I
< nnii<1 n to rc-rnfonT the l-:**e\,
I ii inlicrlH ml. 1'iinilr and other fruit
er* iiimv on Atlantic patrol. \n\nl
olllccrs think the American i-ontt.
front Norfolk to Newfoundland,
iilll lie utility put rolled, unil Hint
the triuiMiit lant It- lines will lie cliiie
ly cu ii riled.
"No iiiformnlioii could lie hint here
?- to ii possible iieiTi't banc for nii|i.
I l.<inc n tierinnii Mulimiirliie fleet.
PRESIDENT CONCERNED
OVER SINKING OF SHIPS
Will Keep .Mint] Open Until |)efl
niie Information Is Itccclveri
Ihcou^li Official Sources.
AVI LI, SKK HKH.VSTOHI'r TO-l>.\Y
Taken for Ornnled That Activities of
Cierniuii Submarine Will He lMs
?ussecl?Nothing to Iih)Irate That
Complications Will Follow.
LOXG HKAXOH. X. .1.. Uctul.cr S.?
I ic.sidcut \\ ilson and government of
llcials hero expressed deep concern to
night over the sinking of the four
British and two neutral steamships off
the American coast by a Gorman sub
marinc. but up to a late hour no of
ficial word had lieeu received indi
cating that International complications
would follow.
The government officials were plain
ly worried over the. situation, hut it
was staled that the President would
keep hlsj miiul open until (leflnite In
formation is supplied through official
sources. A very thorough investiga
tion would he made, it whs stated.
W ith the receipt . of word of the .
sinking oi the vessels so near the j
American coast, additional importance j
was attached to the visit here to-mor
row of fount von Iternstorff. the j
American ambassador, who comes to
give Mr. Wilson a personal letter from i
the German Kmperor on Polish relief.'
It was taken for granted, however,
that the activities of the German sub
marine would be discussed.
mtrricon or pmoikih hk
NOT l.llv Kl.V TO HK CltAMiKI)
Count von fternstoriT has carried on
all his negotiations over submarine
warfare through Secretary Lansing
and Counselor Polk, of the Stale De- 1
partmcnt. and ii was thought unlike
ly here that the President would rlo
anything in change this method of pro
cedure. ,
The President has an,engagement to
morrow to see Judge William I., Cham
hers, commissioner of the Federal
I'Oaril >'{ .Mediation and Conciliation,
and it tv.i> understood thai the invest!- ;
ration of the railway eight-hour law
would be iliseussed.
William I*. .McCombs. Democratic
nominee for Senator from Xew York,
will lunch with the President on Tues- i
day. They will take up Xew York '
State politics, iiM lulling arrangements ;
for t li o President to deliver two
speeches in that State
Mr. Wilson spent most of to-day '
? Itlletly at Shadow l.awn. lie leaves
Wednesday for Indianapolis, where lie:
w ill make two speeches on Thursday. '
"Peiuisj lvania Pay" will he cele- j
bra I ed here on Saturday. Mr. Wilson
will deliver an address to a large dele- I
gation of Pentis.vlvauians.
Dtu'.s Mir nkckssa icu.i
tIKAN I I IITIIKII l OMIM.ICATIOXS :
WASH I.Vi ;T? IX. October s.?Sub- I
marine warfare at the very doors of |
the I'nited States does not necessarily t
port end further complicat ions with '
Germany as long as it is carried on
within th<* limitations of international j
law.
I hat i.< the view of official Washing
ton to-tiisht oil the record of one day's i
operations in which none of the ships
11 est roved appears to have been at- I
lacked without wariiinc. or wltholli j
proper measures having Seen taken for
safety of I hose aboard.
While in international law an allied j
ship ilostrnved li> a Gerinau submarine j
in?t outside the three-mile limit and '
in sight of American shores is no dif- j
ferent than a ship destroy in I Ii e |
Arctic Ocean, provided iis destruction '
is accomplished in accordance with the
laws of nations and humanity, the'
presence of a German submarine llo- \
tilla near A riean territorial waters, :
officials fear, ina.v raise perplc sin-.; neu- j
Iralitv issues
Half a dozen It???> de.stroxed prac- j
llcally within iuhl of the I'nited '
Slat's arou ed ?? ports of German |
bases and convoys One renewed re- i
port was that quantities of fuel oil
had been submerged on the coast of
Maine and on the Canadian coast and
In the Gulf of Mexico.
Xaval officers leaned strongly to the
theory that probably u flotilla of Ger
many's newest t'-boats Is off the const
It was reRarderl an significant that
German embassy officials, while dis
claiming any Information, said th?y
fninpeetod thers was more than one
?ubmarln*.
NEWPORT VISITOR
BELIEVED TO BE
HOSTILE U-BOAT
Four British, One Dutch and One Norwegian
Steamer Sent to Bottom or Left
Crippled Derelicts.
NO LOSS OF LIFE REPORTED SO FAR
AS RESULT OF SPECTACULAR RAID
Destroyer Flotilla of Atlantic Fleet Dashes at Top
Speed to Scene of Attacks to Pick Up Pas
sengers and Crews of Destroyed Vessels.
American Ship Held Up, but Allowed to Pro
ceed on Establishing Identity?Two of the
Kaiser's Underwater Men-of-War Believed
to Be Operating Directly in Steamer Lary^
but Outside Three-Mile Limit?Shipping li
Terrified and Rushing for Neutral Waters.
Four Destroyers Reach Newport,
Bringing 216 Rescued Persons
> F.W I'ttRT. .It. I.. Ili-Kihrr II.?Four destroyer* of the American flotilla
mine Into harbor here early to-day bringing UIO persona rescued from the
nhipn *unk qff \untucket on Sunday by n (Jermnn submarine. The Erics
son, one of tlie destroyer* to arrive, brought eighty-ones the Drayton*
nl&ty-elKhtt the Ur 11 hum. thirty-six, and the Jenkins, thirty-one.
Thlrty-lli e women nml ten children nre among those ou tlte Kricsaon.
Thin Information came by tvlrelcss la advance of the actual docking of the
dent royers.
It una reported enrly to-dny that a seventh ship ham been sunk. Her
Identity ivnit unknown, but destroyera were searching (or Iter,
BOSTON*. October 8.?The submarine arm ot tlio Imperial German navy
i avaged shipping off the eastern const of the United States to-day.
Four British, one Dutch and one Norwegian steamer were sent to the
bottom or left crippled derelicts off Nantucket Shoals.
To-night, under the light of the hunter's moon, the destroyer flotilla of the
I nited States Atlantic Fleet was picking up passengers and crews of the de
stroyed vessels and bringing thent into Newport, li. 1.
So far as known there was no loss of life, though at a late hour the crew
of the British steamer Kingston had not. been accounted tor. A submarine held
mp the American steamer Kansan. bound from New York for Genoa with steel
for the Italian government, but later, on establishing her identity, allowed th?
American ship to proceed. I *
The Kansan came into Boston harbor late to-night for her usual call herey
The hostile submarine is believed to be tlte U-53, which paid a call to
Newport yesterday, and disappeared at sunset. .Some naval men, however, de
clared that at least two submarines are operating close to the American shore,
Inough outside the three-mile limit.
MF.SI 1,TS OK KM It AS TOM) BY WIKKLESS.
The record of submarine warfare its brought to hind by wireless dispatches
follows:
The Strnthdcue, British freighter, torpedoed and sunk off Nantucket. Crew
taken aboard NantucUet Shoals lightship and later removed to Newport by
torpedo-boat destroyers. The Strathdeno left. New York yesterday for Bor
deaux. and was attacked at t? A. M ,
The West I'oint, British freighter, torpedoed and sunk ofl" Nantucket. Crew
abandoned the ship in small boats, after a warning shot from the submarine'.-*
gun. Oflicers and men were taken aboard a destroyor. The vessel was at
tacked at 10:45 A. M. She was bound frrom London to Newport News.
The Stephano, British liner, plying; regularly between New York, Halifax
and St. Johns. N. K.. torpedoed southeast of Nantucket while bound for New
York. Reported still afloat late to-night. Passengers and crew, numbering
about 110. were picked up by the destroyor Balch and transferred to the de
stroyer Jenkins. The attack was mado at 4:30 P. M.
The Kingston. British freighter, torpedoed and sunk southeast of Nan
tucket. Crew missing and destroyer searching for them. This vessel is nor.
accounted for in maritime registers, and may be the Kingstonian. Tho attack
occurred at t; l\ M.
Bloomersdi jk, I Mitch freighter, torpedoed and sunk south of Nantucket.
Crew taken aboard a destroyer. The. steamer was Ivjund from New York for
Rotterdam, having sailed last night.
The Christian Knudscn. Norwegian freighter, torpedoed and sunk near
where the Bloomersdijk went down. i'rew picked up by destroyers. The vessel
sailed from New York on Saturday for London.
Mi:ss\<;r.s or wiiixim; skxt broadcast.
The sensation created yesterday when the U-5It quietly slipped into New
port harbor and as quietly slipped away three hours later wat? less than the
shock in shipping circles when wireless reports of submarine attacks began to
come in to the naval radio stations just before noon to-day. Within a few
minutes the air was literally charged with electricity, as wireless messages of
warning were broadcast all along the coast.
The submarine, or submarines, had taken a position directly in the steamer
lanes, where they could hardly miss anything bound in for New York or bound
cast from that port.
Vessels of the entente allied nations and neutral bottoms carrying contra
band of war scurried to get within the three-mile limit of the American shore.
Several that were following the outside course shifted and made for tho inside
lane. The Stephano. of the lied Cross l.ino. however, was caught outside the
neutral zone. Tho destruction of this vessel was perhaps the biggest prize of
the. day. The craft bad been sold t<> tho Russian government, and would have
been used as an ice breaker after her present trip.
Throughout the day and up t<> late to-niglu none of the patrolling fleet
maintained by tin- British and French to protect their own shipping, and
American ships carrying munitions of war. had been sighted. Frantic appeals
were sent to Halifax.
BRITISH CtMIM \ MtlCR U IRKS IIK IS TAKIMi STF.I'S.
"All steps possible in the circumstances are being taken to deal with tho
sit ua t ion."
This message was received by the Associated Press to-night from tho
commander -in? chief of the. British North Atlantic squadron at Halifax, X. J*.
It was in reply to -i request for a statement bv him. The work of the patrol
ling tb-cts was directed from Halifax, and ever since the war began cruisers
..ml au\iliar> vessels of the British and French navies have moved up and
down the coast. The passengers and crews of destroyed vessels who were
being brought into Newport were not expected to reach there until after mid
tight.
Preparations to care for them had been mado by Rear-Admiral Knight,
commandant of the Narragansett Bay naval station, and Rear-Admiral (Heaves,
commander of,the destroyer flotilla now at Newport.
Nantucket lightship, off which tho submarine carried nut Its raid, Is thir
ty miles from the coast, and well outside the territory of the United State.
It Is directly In the path of transatlantic steamship t.raflle. At least ten United
States torpedo-boat destroyers have loft Newport to pick up passengers arid
the crew of the torpedoed vessels.
The erew of the Strathdene, nearly all of them Lascars, were taken aboard
the Nantucket llsrht&hlp. The oflicers and men of the West Point took th?ti<
