THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Partly cloudy and not so warm to-day;
to-morrow fair and cooler.
Highest temperature yesterday, 79; lowest, 58.
Detailed Heather, mall and marine reports 011 pago 6.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 39.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1916. Copyright, 1M, iy the Sun Printing and PubUtMng AitocUMon.
ONE CENT
In Orralrr .' York.
Jersey City and Newark
HI ten hers
TWO CKNT-.
U BOATS SINK SIX STEAMERS OFF NANTUCKET COAST;
PASSENGER SHIP CARRYING MANY AMERICANS TORPEDOED;
WARNING GIVEN TO ALL VESSELS AND NO LIVES ARE LOST
Destruction of Ships "Under Very
Eyes of President Wilson"
May Revive Grave I.ssue
With Germany.
f
H.ERMAN submarine U-C3, which sank six ships yesterday oft" tho American coast, as she appeared in Newport harbor. Below are tho
officers and crew grouped on the deck of the undersea raider. Licut.-Capt. Rose la standing In centre of lower tow.
WASHINGTON NOW THINKS
ADMINISTRATION WILL ACT
U. S. Demands in Sussex Case Gave Loophole
to Teuton Sea Raiders Passengers
Must Not Be Jeopardized.
WASIUNGTON, Oct. 8. Destruction by the German
submarine U-53 of six steamships "un-der the very eyes of
President V.MIson," as the act was described in Washington
to-day, has thrown the relations existing between the United
States and Germany back to the strainod times following the
Sussex disaster in the English Channel, according to persons, " ---If-T-L,-.
who knew most intimately the President's views and inten-1 WILSON IS WORRIED
tions then.
Information received here indicates that, while there was DV 11 FXPI 01TS
no loss of life, the German submarine commander could not) UUA1UV11U
possibly have been assured that all of the passengers and crew 1
would be transported safely to shore when he compelled them j President Seeks All Fuels Ob-
aa',,i"iaai'MiM
r-. . " vf 'T3rrSWBSk. J ML ?LS553fii;11 Ejm
i
Four British Vessels, One Norwegian
and One Dutch Destroyed by
Submarines and Crews Forced
to Take to Small Boats
GERMAN RAIDERS ALLOW
TIME FOR ALL TO ESCAPE
American Women and Babies Picked Up by
U. S. Destroyers Rushed to Rescue
From Newport
tliow lrrm. That tlifrr l)il'('nn to be
no Jons of life l not vuftlelrr. In the
view the Administration ha held hereto
to get into the small boats in the open sea.
The Administration has insisted with all firmness, since
the time of the discussions on the sinking of the American sail
ing vessel William P. Frye, that placing those on board a cap
tured ship into the small boats does not answer the demand of 1
this Government that they shall not bo put in jeopardy.
It has been conceded unofficially by members of the State
Department that if the ship is near land and the sea is calm and
there is an absolute certainty of rescue a submarine commander
may put the captives in small boats before sinking the vessel.
It Looks Like a New Issue With Germany.
tlouts c-oniluc Into Wnvhlncton
to-nlisht nmko it iipiH'iir Unit tin res
cue of many of the. pHsseimers uud
rcw wn fortuitous rather than a
matter nf certainty. If this Is inti
tinueil by the reiwrts "f the many
American naval oftlcers who took part
In the rescues. It is thoiiKUt President
Wllvw. In the. IlKbt of his utterances
in tin; Siisex case aiul In the Frju
case, iniiy make tin Issue of the sink
Inss with the Oermiin Oovernincnt.
It also Is borno in mind, however,
tht no matter how stem havo bef n
the President's utterances and no mat
ter 1o what decree tJermuny's ucts
ubseruently may havo lioen In dttl
ancn of them. Secretary l.ansltiK und
Aml1.1ss.1dur von UernstorfT liave found
a way out of tho critical situation.
( it inn 11 llrfrlicr of I'-S.Ta Ai-ta.
I'l-rsons close to the Herman Kmbavsy
to-nleht ili'dared that the fIiiIiIiiks were
not llkftnl Hiti-, hut were 111 conformity
:d Internal luriul law and the agreement
wlili li iJcrniany hail made with tle
I'nlted States. This was shown, It was
unteil, by the fact that tho l-."i3, out of
:i Mrl.-l lesard for Inlernntlonal law,
vm halted the Ainerlcan-llawatlaii liner
Kain.in .md on Uarnlnif her nationality
and cU'Mliiutlon had allowed tho essul
tci lnoc.-eil
taiiialilc on Sinking of
(i Mcrcliiint Ships.
Iaj.vii IlnAM-ii, N. J.. Oct. R. I'locl
dent Wllfon nnl r.overninent ntllelals
here expressed deep concern to-nlRht
oer the sinking of the six Hrltlsh. Nor
wegian and Dutch steamships off the
American coast by a iSerman submarine,
but up to a lata hour no odlclnl word
has been received Indicating that Inter
national complications would follow.
The Government ofllclalii wero plainly
worried over the situation and mad
effortn In get all Information obtainable
as quickly as possible. It was stated
that tho President would pay no iitteu-
tlon to preliminary meagre icports and
lore. Tiierc must ha no uangr or iocs ,,, ,,,M ,, ,,. ,,,,,.1 ,i..iinlie
ti,' , . .. i, . . . 'Information is HUpplled thiough olllclal
H will bo for the President to decide tource9
In Uie llht of complete lei.ort from his Th(J qtlons o( administration ofll-
n.-ival olllccrs at Newport wlKther this ca, centied around whether any Amerl-
pl!gfl for the passengers' si.fety has fa1J ,ieen lost nm, whelncr the v.--
been carried out. , . . sels were warned In accordance with In-
.So far. Information reaching here ternatona, IttW, u . tllt,d that a
points to the conclusion that? some of vefv throUKh nvestlKatlon wobld be
those on board the destroyed Ihlps owed mae i,ut thut 0 hnllty aclon ftoui,i be
their rescue to the prompt mat effective tBien
work of United States destroyers of w,(-h ,n( rfceit ot wor,i of ,nc ,mu.
whose assistance the Herman nival com-i11K of tnc VC(.,.e, fo ear the American
raander had no dcllnlte assunence in ad- roaflt nldltlon:tt linnortaucp was al
Vance. I tached to the visit here to-morrow of
llecaiise of the grave complications Count Johann on Ilernstorn. the Oer
whlch the acts of the otf Newpoit man Ambassador. While the engage,
make Imminent, the visit of A.'mbassador ment of the Ambassador with the l'resl
von Bernstorft to Shadow Lawn to- den, was made to enable hint to give .Mr.
morrow takes 011 the hlghei t Interest. Von a peisonal letter from the (ler
Orlglnally scheduled to see the President man Kmperor on Polish relief. It was
on a matter foreign to the submarine taken for granted that the activities of
controversy, the Herman .1 mbassador the Herman submarine would b- dis
may to-morrow listen to a shurp reltera- russeil. Count von llernstorff will sec
tlon of the President's vlcsvs on the the Picsldent at I o'clock In the after
submarine question. noon.
As tho news of the sinkings came In count von llernstorff has carried on
to-night, tho euso of the Brttlsh steam- j au m nrBotlatlons over submarine war
Phlp Stephano. said to have bad W fatf tliroucsh Secretary Uansing and
passengers aboard. Includ Ing some counilcIor i.0k f the State Depart-
Americans, was regarded all tnc most meM )n(1 ,t wai) tlloKlt unlllccly here
NEWPORT, R. I., Oct. 9 (Monday), 3 a. m. Four
j destroyers of the American flotilla came into the harbor here
early to-day, bringing 216 persons rescued from the ships sunk
I off Nantucket by German submarines. The Ericsson, the first
.of the destroyers to arrive, brought 81, tho Drayton 68, the
Benham 36 and the Jenkins 31. Thirty-five women and ten
children are among those on the Ericsson.
It was reported on the authority of an officer of the Erics
son that three submarines were operating and that a total of
nine vessels had been sunk.
NANTUCKET, Mass., Oct. 9 (Monday) Three British
cruisers arrived off Nantucket at 2:40 o'clock this morning.
Other cruisers of the Allied naval forces were expected.
uT i.f?.ii.iimSUAnaai-.&.
BERNSTORFF, IN TOUCH WITH ! MAY RUSH FLEET OF
U-53, TO SEE WILSON TO-DA Y Q B0AT CATCHERS
Ambassador's Ostensible Visit Is to Deliver Kaiser's
Letter on Polish Relief Great Submarine Cam
paign Here Planned by Admiralty.
clals of the Statu Department ald that
the Administration would su sptnu juug
inent.
NEWPORT, R. I., Oct. 8. Germany has brought her
submarine warfare against the Allies to the coast of the United
States, striking suddenly and terrifically.
Within gun wound of Nantucket Island, in the midst of a.
sea road all important to allied and neutral commerce, the U-53,
the'supersubmarine which darted in and then out of this harbor
yesterday afternoon, .and another submarine as yet unidentified,
torpedoed and sank at least six steamships four British, one
Norwegian, one Dutch.
The ships that fell victim to the German undersea destroyer
when she slipped away from Newport and planted herself
squarely in the steamship lane this morning were the British
steamships Strathdene, West Point, Stephano and Kingston;
the Norwegian steamship Christian Knudsen and the Dutch
steamship Bloomersdijk. These represented a total of about
12,000 tons. The only ship that carried passengers was the
Stephano, which was on her way from St. John's. N. F., to
New York city.
No lives were lost, the naval authorities here report on the
basis of assurances from the Nantucket lightship and from the
flotilla of American destroyers that put to sea with a rush when
i the first news (lash of destruction streamed in this morning.
; Judging from all reports received here, warning was given
Kill: In ml Heady Spend lil-' by the submarine to every ship sunk in time to permit the crews
lions to Protect .Munition
Ships From 1'. S.
Washington, Oct. S. "Arrived on . lured ships and the fuel problem mleht
A.i,.,ir,.i -,!,. ti,i in milMtance. ot prove Insurmountable. Hut ua..l
cnSe-riKo --stood to 'be tho message which irhmlnf 1' suy'of
llut in tho absence of all trt, facts ...II- ChA"fc ii wuh naSelo-day for I dpt. Hans Hose. commandli.B tho torpedoes?' ... .
the Vro-Tdent to ee Jules Jusserur.d. the del man submarine U-53. had for Count ; l'" "'" ' '
French Ambassador, on Tuesday, w line Vnn llernstorff, the Herman Ainuiswiuoi. 7..; :. , , d , ,n,. (.,mUs?y olllclal aio
iii-rinMm.nifl fur IiIh vlult uere made i it., .r.ni Hi im..mii;e to the iicrmaii . ... . ..... ... .. ... I . ... .. . l,.
r , .i, i. 111. nndir. ............. ...nini. h in-., win ne wiinout ncr iiiohi ciucuve weapon cwk cainuy ami
.7i.,i,j .4....n...n -n i mrOUKIl IIH! itllC I Ittv u "Hit ' LniHIKfy III lUUllllill.vu ......
uiiiievtiui sum nciw i.u..., w. ..m.-i-- riere iok il lor immeii ilia, m' ..inn
i'..i i.,f..r.,n.itv rr.rntH au ralilillv as the IWiUS of them ,i,i ,n .ii.nu. Pnllah relief with the
'41 . ICI It I'll I, .III. HI II .1 I III "I I...... . - , " ...l . . . , ........... . " - ' " .
ilirl.ir.-.i th r..-,:i'M rlirins iih n com- was received. '1 hey refused; to make any i.r, M,ient. '
mcr-e raider were unavailable n lorn; comment. Mmperlnl tjoverniin'iii. imre a m. lt,Z(.r!, or ot,ers In the t'nlted States
and passengers to escape in small boats.
American Women and Babies on Board.
'I'Im Kcil ('row I.lnc tiiiinlilp
SU'plKiiin, i-iirryliiK elclily-tlirw
Wasiiinoton, net. 1. At the Uritlsli
embassy It Is tald to day that so far no m-ii'-mm--., liintly Allli'l'li'illi. linil lltclilil
movu has been nride by that ilovern- im ninny McillliMI mill illllill'i'll, -.l-
the wiih aiming her torpedoes und warn
Inc the hhlpa he had marked fur de
strurtlon. The l'-:.3, with her four onicers and
rim- of thlity-thiee men, her clKht tor
pedo tube- iiiid two raplil lire ,,ck uuiw
me,t hlch can be commented upon nn.rci'ii'il mnl ilNnlilcil at -I :.'! I'. M. ZZX
publicly. Tlie iiriiisu an," ' "!.lx- ml,. ,s,mi('llst of till' Nllllt llckuC
takliiK the
.. I ",r . , . , . i.r. ,he w be w t iout her moHt cirectlve weaiion
KmVassy n accordance i the U .. , un
man naval reKulallons vhlch re pi I. d , , oan ,,ir,)V,,oU for her.
him on arrival TTl.n ,!i el " lx ot Mee, here that U will be
nearct acci edited re,irrsentatlf f t.l.(n u . liro,,lem fo aliy lrln.,n hym.
siumls llyhlslili. All Hint Is vr-
klml that hiiH been i-eeu In American
waters virtually brought the Kuropean
war to this side of the Atlantic when
tno mibmarine observed the demands
f the American (iovcrninent regarding
the lion-JeojiardlzlnB of the lives of pan
Protests fiom both the rjerman and
" I wv nnnnupw nn CTTTJUAVn .ecret
llrltlsh Governments are Expected as , i.-,,
i
risult of the Mibmurlne raid and the cli-
ynstrt, and crew of non-conibatunt cumstnnces which intended It. Officials
nier lunt ihlps I look for a uiazo of diplomatic entangle.
The fa t that the rlnklnus occurred inents aside from the dlruit controversy
outside tha three mile limit Is another with (iermuny which may ensue.
pallUtHo reason, according to the Qer-
m.in., although they admitted tho se- Drlllsh Envoy In N'errr Proteit.
nousne?! that attached to brlnttlng tho1 . .., ,, . .i,iuh m.
U'Uf-ir, in ilm vnrv .lnom of Hie T Cecil Sprltlg-ItiCC. tie lli'ltlsh Am-
United i i.e. I baesador. Is expected to press the con-
In the V." of the State Department ,l'""1"1 ,of "'Wm TM.UlT't'h.!
re the records of M-oro- of torpedo-1 submarines should not J.o allowed the
m.-s by flerman submarines, many ,lf , courtele of American p .rts.
nm since the Sussex was toipedoed, I W'H explain, It Is understood, thai
U is i-immon knowledge that. In many , otherwise the Hrltlsh Admiralty will be
r.".ll!Cii ., tho ships weie Hent to tho I ooilgeu io laae eiaournie uieasure.i ii
bot'om !li (.ontr.iM'iitlon of the pledses eope with the IJ boat campaign, an 1
mills by ijermauy to the United States I'm result will be to transfer naval war
nl that time. f're t" tile proximity of the Atlani'e
seaboard with Its consn,uent disruption
lemon. Kept lp lllrsnl AVnrforr. ' 'f constwlse trade and I iteamshlp tra el,
I These contentious are, Independent of
i ' known that Uermaiiy has contlti-1 whatever may develop, from the direct
"" t..' illeis.u wurfaie. tiiklng care In '.. kl w'liic-h the Vt-:,S h.fs ulready
' ,i es, l.oweMT. not to molest ihlps , ,,. tt ltlili ships.,
huc Ameilc.ms nbontd, Hy ' t'outit on Hernsto'lT's pectrd pro
" - nun . aid 'il by a kindly disregard ., ull be Hgalnst the methods em
' i- going on by the authorities po)ed by I'lillfd Status naval radio sta-W.i-lwni.-ton,
tint ikrmaii (ioveinment ,,, n l,roi,dcastln i news concerning
imm able to proceed in Its cominerco in x.;,x , (jMmI,, circles the wire
"'d .mum somewhat more cautious (,hH limKnlnccmeut c' the U boat's ar-
t in the actions of Herman sub-' iinnal law.
uppear to havo evaporated en-1
i
I'linentrnl Wlrelei ,etm.
Incidentally, iiumiI officers at the
Auent for Mnl t'rou I.liier Ills-
cunseo Her Loaa at Sen.
Charles W. llowrlng. American rep
resentative of Howrlng & Co.. at 17
llattery place, owners of the Stephano,
tnriestm iiience, no nn Kr n.-in , .,.i.i u-i, ,.-!,. .r..a.,.. t.. ,.
i:tnperor William and nothing efn re- (.,,rm.m BUUmarnc, As oon as'a shl(.
mottly hinting at peace. In f','01' rve" I takes'these weapon's aboard she Is open
In
', ' ,'.,', '.i,hi ,i,n ,,m w.kl",l"1' known inllcenilllS till' StOJih- i she began operaMuns at daylluht this
the situation lth the n. xt " , .,,.,i"i'r- nn.l prow ,m"nlnK h '' ...inthlp llylnc
ten days whlcu will put an end to 1 11 ' " ' 'V . ' , ' . "' American ting, tho Kansan of tho
threatened IT boat raid on 'mulsh """'"' Hit" ""1" 'J, ' " llawallaii-Amerlean Line. The Kansati
, , , Ulilix Kosi. uf ihi' I -...I, wpi-i' I'U'ki'il , carried war munitions destined for
up liy ilio
havo already shown how peaceful tno u uspU,on ,, the y,ulfl smtcs HU-iMrojerH mid other craft to
submarine commanders mission was. jhorltles naturally will not sanction the unity of the Ameilcan coast.
i-ni.nt vnn llernstorn: explained io.
day tho purport nf the metsago dellv
end at Newport by the Herman naval
The Ambassador nau. mi iiikiihk
was at dinner with a menu in vtesi . . . ,h nUTTi nf the nuli-
Hr ghton, htaten islam , wncn lie vMU ,Ic lcfl to-nlght on the
mill she li.nl been sunk off Nni-i1" lr" . ' . . u ....
I
p. it
H
luoimht to the eiy doors of
' i ' I Stalls, it Is Hie opinion hero
hi in nuti atlon eiiniiot loiiKer clu.i
' to tint dangerous situation
1 . 'i iinv believe, the commerce raids
ire bringing to the relations bc
lt ' 'I !i loutitry and (lennauy.
Alison lleniniiileil Auriinrr.
'' Knt Wilson, In Ills previous ills-
'b (ii rmany, was not mtlstU'd
' 1 ' ii nn, in lioverniiient uneiiilMi-
a 1 pledged Itself that passengers
New
was told she had been sunl
tucket.
He was unwilling to believe the re
port at first. When convinced of Its
authenticity, he said: "If tho Stephano
has been torpedoed, with or wunoui
warning, wo might as well give up all
hope of tho assurances of Germany In
legard to the sinking f vassenger
steamships."
Mr. llowrlng said he was sure mere
f.'in tr.ili, for Shadow Lawn. wh"r he
will deliver an autograph letter on Polish
relief from the (lernian Kmpeior to
President Wilson.
Jlendy to Sonnd Wilson,
The Ambnssador does not expect to
discuss the submarine's Wslt unless the
nrnviiinnt makes the llrst move, In fact.
he hss no Instructions to consult the
the
shipping,
It is said that llie urm-n .Mimirany . (i..M .....,,.., 1,1,-1. ,.,,. . n.,l t t,,
nliendy has taken steps to rush de- MVm. ,v it,.,,,. Admlriil Hi'lbcll
tili'iivf, cniuiiiitiiillii Iln tli'-trii,ir
tliltllln nf tlu Alliintlii 11,'i't. wlli'tl '.Ii'
warship tlon to these craft the so-called nib- ........i....,, M,,..s ,..Mi,,,. ,i,.
ilio West I'lilnt mnl tho Striitlnli'in'
tlia pro
In addl-
nrovlslonlng of u belligerent warship tlon to tliesc craft the so-called nib-
from American ports. . marine catchers, or high powered motor
In (ierman circles it Is said the new boats armed with . Incli guns, may be
elisors and seamen
in ...inn. ii .nil. ii ir i-in.i in.- in ii , uuaia i.iiiiiii mi i r i .' ' , . , ..
supply of ammunition for the U-ri.1 will ued to protect Hrltlsh trade. Scores of M'llK.
bi bioncht over hv other submarines ,li..n vessels are belnc titled out abroad ' l escilcil passi
which already have left port for tho 'and there are many nioie of them In of the Stopliani) und the crew s of other
vicinity of the U boat s activities.
were iimhablv mo, n than a hundred ' i-nlieil States Uoerniiieni anoui n is or
PHSsengers aboard the Stephano, includ- other matters Involving the war tier
ing many American children, who bad xnnuy Is waging against her euem.es.
been detained longer than usual In New-) in Herman llmbassy ilnies the U-.i3 s
foundland or New lirunswlck to be cer-' visit Is icgaribMl as the llrst move in a
tain of evading the possibility of Infee. campalen to stilke at the heart or the
i in iiifniitiln ii.irulvHls liere. More .,...,,nl,,nu iratlle between N"W nl.: and
" " ' ' . .. . . .. .. . ..i.i m i...
three-iiuarierH or uie pashengers iire.it Ilrltaui. iir.iin mmii
Stale department. Secre
. said the other day ho had
n the. latest reports.
the iiothitles of tho I" boats, Navy i.parlinciit havu nheady com
mentis on the bn ich or International
relations Involved In the original radio
uiesMiHuH concern Ing the submarine,
These messages can, of course, be picked
up at sea by Drill h wnr craft and for
that reason coustlD.ito unneutral acts, It
h contended.
The State OejiatMtnent Is gravely, con
cerned and frunklj disappointed at see
ing the subinarln i warfare now con
tinued under Its very eyes, so to speak,
It conflicts with Ijhe position which Die
Administration liais taken on several o
wimi.i not bo nliiced in oneii ' cislons. namely I hat warfare on com.
'iidrm them was iibsolule nssui -1 inene carriers (I mid not be conducted
' ' .it Ihev wMiiild reach land or I according lo International law.
Id be rescued without uny loss of In his nolo on the 8usse case, Sec-
if' I
--rnsny nude tho pledgt In Mrtually
t'ontlnurtf; on Third Page.
tbiiti
of tho lied t'ross shliis Florllel uud
Stephiino were usually Amerlcuns.
SAME FIRM HAS LOST 5 SHIPS.
Funics", WHIiy A '., Owners of
West Point, I' Hon I Vletlms.
Four other vessels owned by Furncss,
Willi)" 'i owners of Iho West Point,
bao been torpedoed during the war.
They wero the Queen IllUabeth, it tramp.
the l.iigle 1'iiltU. inc nouinern i-oiui anil
Iho Perslanna. They wero nil sunk off
the coast of (lieat llrltaln by tlerinim
siibmerslbles.
Tho Cornish Point, slsler of the West
Point, Is now lying at Pier 4, Hush docks,
at the foot of Foity-slxlli street, Ilrook
lyu. Tho 'ornlsli Point's skipper Is t'upt,
lames Walker, wlio commanded Hie
West Point for secrnl months nfler she
was put into commission four euis ago.
Tho f'ornlsh Point had been a Hrltlsh
fiovernmcut Iransport for the last eigh
teen months until she was relieved Just
befoia her present trip here, She was
engaged In carrying troops across tho
Enellfh Channel.
SEARCHED FOR SUBMARINE.
Ilnstern I'oriTnrdlnit Co, I'aril Tugs
Tito Weeks n .Nevr l.tnilnn,
Mlli'lii'iin lorjiiMlo bunt unoa and St. l,a.are. but was bound
temporality for Huston, and It wan ow
ing to her technical Hants lis a coast
wine esel probably that she escaped
destruction. Her papers were examined
and she was n ut on her wav after Capt
Mans Itoro had expressed remet for In r
deti ntlon.
Within half an hour, at il A. M , th
V-h. torpedoi d nrd sank tho Hrltlsh
freighter Strathdene. bound trom New
Y"Mli to llordeaus Iter IKXt victim was
Hie big new Hrltlsh steamship Weft
Point, on her way from Loudon to New
poll News This was tier morning's
wniK In the afternoon slin Intciccpted
ine Mepiiano, wiin"e passengers were
.inuiii mil owinir to their Importance
The aim which licnnaiiy im,i:- no in n.
Imperil the munllloi, supplies, besides
initiating n campaign against tiieat
Hrltalu's food supidy fmin Ameilca.
It Is understood that the U-S3 wilt be
Joined by other llermnn submarines.
The prospect looms up of making thr
waters adjacent to .New York and the
Atlantic seaboard tho sceno of sys
tematic attacks on Hiltlsh ships.
In (Ierman circles It Is said that a base
on.. i,e established without difficulty and
that In addition a parent ship for the U
boats will bo provided to give them fuel
oil. The statement is made that tho II
boals can remain In concealment and
continue to bo an effective tnenaco to
shipping. ,
In naval circles here there is muni
speculation as to whether the plan of
cutting off Hrltlsh trade and striking at
slipping; Is feasible. The opinion Is
vouchsafed by ranking naval officers that
Iho l!-!i3 can at Iho utmost remain near
tho Atlantic coast only u week or ten
days.
Ho far as the food supply for ths oftV
rers and crew Is concerned It would be
poc3lb!c to commandeer food from cap-
American waters now wheio they aro, ships wero brought to this city by
unarmed, but can speedily be made ser-1 Fulled .States naval vessels, destroyers
lceablc. principally, that were sent to pick
The extent of the 'nniP.il'm which ,,,, or , , K, f ,
llreat Hr loin will conduct to protect, v '.,. c), ... i,,,,,,,,,,.
n.ui.i, o.ii.ni,,,. in ,ii.,,....,i nn ii... .'.Nantucket Mioals lluhtshlp. where
tent of the V boat's activities, The ' uuiuel oils ini.itlo.iils nail iiinilo their , niost nil Aineiicins. tnanv of tln-ii worn-
guiding Pllnclple of the Hrltlsh Ad-! '' llliassistisl, ,.n mnl i hrldieii leliiruing from New.
T...v, n. s .,,,,' mlrally Is that munition sliliis and grain i i ne uestroyers nave rescued per- unuiillaiiil. wlicro Hi. had gouo to
M.w IJNPON, i nnn.i uci. s. ii.in.iats , ,,,,,. ,,, ... i,.. , M ni. all on board the Minken shins ex. , eseaue tb inf.intllo namlvsi. nn.l,
ad- ... ....... I r,.t..i.. A i I emit till, iiltlri.r. mi,, i.r.ni' .if Hi.. Ili'lllnh i lunula r- Hn lfn1 ii.,.a II.,. ..... ....
I ' II 1 1 1'l .-lillis il I i in. ii i iiiiiiiiii iieil llj- i '" w r -. - i.iiii- rnj il.
It takes millions to assure tin Ir safety. freighter Kingston. Tim llrli-ssnn nibmarlne 11 red on the Steplmuo wit,,.
There Is talk of a convoy for each of' '"'ought SI persons from tin1 Sti-i.liano, out warning, but tho proof of the chargu
the munition and grain ships, This ! Including li.'i women and la children has net vet been established
would me.'m that these vessels would be ' Tbe liuiytim had US, the I'.euhani IP! Her fourth victim was the Hrltlia
picked up us sunn as they nre outside the H"1 Jenkins 71. freighter Kingston, and she completed
time mile limit and escorted by de. At the last leports none ..f the nib- u.r day's work with tho d. stru. tinn of
Hrojers or 'eubinarlne c.itcheis" iiciohh cor ''u'"' llf ""' Kingston has been Hie Norwegian Christian Kmideo and
the Atlantic, or at least to safety In the found, but naval oilUlals believe they the Hutch lloome-ilJlk io. night as
oiet, n a, uie inerage niunuion snip , ' ihikm"ii nunineieii ani-i mo lesuu of this identic.- iKst, ikhIihi,
could then teiy on us speeu, it is ex
plained, to escape submarines until
of thfl Scott Wrecking Company
milled to-nlght thr Ir tugs were char
tered by the Fastern Forwarding Com
pany to go out nightly for about two
weeks cruising between Fishers Island
and .Monlauk Point. The trips were
made, so far as the Scott company offi
cials know, for the purpose of locating a
(Ierman submarine, the name of which
was not divulged.
Tho Scott company has furnished no
supplies to any vessels outside New Lon
don harbor and claims to have no knowl
edge of any other company in this city
delivering supplies to boats. Capt. Fred
erick lllnsch, commander of Iho steam
ship Necknr and In command of the
North aerm.in Lloyd steamship Interests
In this country, when Interviewed at his
deem lleach residence to-nlght stated
tha' he knew nothing about the affairs
of Iho German war submarine U-D3
which torpedoed ships off Nantucket.
No boats have been sent out from New
Loudon toward Nantucket waters and no
survivors so far as known have urrlvtd
here.
reached the protecting cordon of Hrltlsh
ships on the other side.
i I ; , ;, " ; " me nim ii, m,. ificillicsti lIcKlllK'llnU.
i- dark, and It Is supposed the American l',dted States ilcstrocis from this port
t , destroyers hae had make a long, wero picking up ni'nhnr limn small
U-53 MADE IN U. S., IS REPORT.
On HeeoonUnce Trip.
Hint.lN, Oct. S, via London, net. 0
(.Monday). The Wolff Hureau an
nounces that the Oernian submarine. U
K3 was on a reconnaissance trip across
Iho Atlantic when she entered Newport.
The news agency says It understand!
the II boat left Newport without replete
Ishins her fuel supply or taking on other
material.
Pnrls HeliiK Assembled nt Secret
Hilar, llrldueport Honrs.
Hiiiisim'iikT, Coiiii., del s i"icrm:iny
Is assembling submarined ut a secret
baso on tho Atlantic se.ibo.ud, using
parts which are nmnufactuied In vari
ous American plants, and tho l.'-.Ml la ouo
of these, according to ,i report circu
lated hero to-nlght and credited to a
"person high In thu counsels of the
Allies,"
With a wealth of circumstantial de
tall, It was related how blue prints were
sent lo this onuntiy. whereupon riennan
agents placed orders for all necessary
parts, scattering them widely and then
assembling them ill the secret base,
which tb" a guilts ot the Allies are trying
haul to find,
search fur scatleicd small boats. bouts ami laknn- itiem .iff h... v.-,.,i ,...i ...
The captain of the .Nantucket light-1 lightship All will he carid for In tho
ship Is positive that two submarines naval barracks here, which were beltr
took part in todiv work of destruction. ( made ready to-nlght for the icfugcrs
He icports that ho saw two submarines .
near the lightship and that neither wus Itecord of lle.triictlmi.
an American war boat. , The record or , be r-Vl's activities a,
Naval oIII mms here , Inclined in , iimught to land b wireless dispatches
belloMi that 'wo Herman snbmailnes j,nWM. 1 1 "' '
Jollieu in Uie Miming nl ine snips o llm
Allies. It was Hist supposed lhat the
F-j'J was doing it all alone, lurking In 1
tho htramshlp lane and potting tlio
enemy ships as they camu along.
Wnr llronuhl to This Mile, ,
Noting the hours when the annus
ships were torpedoed and their position,'
tho naval mathematician-, thought it In
credible that the F-S3 could have moieil
about so swlftl. The radius ot the a'-,
tarks was about llfty miles. If III" I'-.'..'!
winked alone, slio had to double on her I
tracks many times and 'raui at a speed I
which allowed uothlut; for units while
THU M HATH III, NK, . ItrllMi
friigliteri topiiloi-il ami sunk on Nan.
tin s.rt; crew taken alumni Vanhirkrl
Nhniils llgltinhlp ii n.l inter rrntoted lo
Newporl li) lorpi'ilo limit iletro)er.
Vessel left New iirk ) l'trrilll y for
llnrilriiiix. anil wu- alliirkril at t A, ,
II I'M' I'lllN I. llrllNh freluhleri
nririlnei ami sunk off .Niintiirkrl;
i ren aliiiniliineil llie lilp In .mall boat,
after a warning lnl from the buliiiiu.
rlne's gun, infrer ami men rrt
tn ken aboard a dr1rnirr. Yer.el wut
Httarkeil ut loi I.'. , X, She hi
bound from London for Newport New,.
tsTLI'UAMO, llrllhli pancngtr liner,
