NIGHT
EXTRA
'rmwv ' w"" tw"" "
WTi
wrtrfitrcnnrL ''e&tttow
tcuenmn
ffirtigre
hl-no. 22
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, OCTOBER 0, 1016
"TOtn, 101s, t in fcsuo Lnesa CouriKT.
BOATS ELUDE BRITONS
AFTER SINKING 9 SHIPS;
DODGERS FIRST TO SCORE
iS SEARCHED
SUBMARINE
HWG CRAFT
)ns Fear Germans
feHave Established
Secret Base
VESSELS SEEK
bNE MISSING CREW
nteen Destroyers Search
for Men of the
Kingston
Sericans saw attacks
V Passemrer and Freight
fatels Sunk Off Nantucket
Identified
YORK, Oct 9. A French
r, thonght to be the Condc. spoke
Danish steamship Olaf off the
r eeUt last night, while apparent-
fig northward to aid the Brlt-
i fat banting submarines, according
i of the Olaf reaching here.
YORK, Oct 8, All arrange-
for dealing with the German
raiders off! the American
: Bare been left to Admiral Mon-
I Browning at Halifax, it was an-
today by Captain Guy Gaunt,
i titecke of the British embassy.
unuu sam ne naa ocjen in
Bitation with the embassy, but
Vmt rereal the messages cx-
DRT, n. I.. Oct. 9. Three Ger-
bMrines of the super-dreadnought
) In the raid In which at least six,
HWf nine, merchant ships were sent
i.bpttom of the Atlantic oil the New
coast. Two of the submarines
i teen identified as the U-53 and the
tv as known no lives were lost, but
t tt seventeen destroyers Is searching
eenw of the British steamship Kings-
Is still mlsslnir.
! U crowing that Germany has es-
a secret submarine base on the
i coast
I submarines disappeared immediately
i tee attacks and are believed to have
their base.
jffslx of the lost ships have been
. out there Is the best of ground
I that three others were sunk.
SUPPLY SHIP VISIBLE
i of the crew of the Nantucket
fc distinctly saw three aubmerslbles.
,hp was auo visible to seamen
rlcan destroyer.
I Of British ArA lm.,tHH .
"flouring the coast. The British
seeking the submarines to de-B-
The American vinhlm
rfer passengers and seamen of other
Wps the Qermans may have de.
Iaa4 are protecUng American neu-
r
latadred-and sixteen passengers and
1st mS LI..
" suhk yesterday were
by United Btatea rimfrnvOT. ..A
1 Mrs. The nassenrera fmm fc
, for New York Just before
left i
rirutfL
i.. i.. . .
y-- aiKJu .American warships
F " so closely by that "the com-
Certlwwd n rase Shy Ctluma One
THE WEATHER
XATHER FORECAST
rvauarsx Marxs&tia
Ti7 fnnytvanias
jW the week will be clear and
Rnit:mb!?r 1S Thursday,
W -lt will be warmer and unaet-
&,l?r M Saturday, Oc-
-ZJ??1 movement will altar ts.
flTt?! moVnt. WeeN. bv
"t, Utoi M wS
wiWri7-rr "
SB 1
GERARD DOES BEAR KAISER'S PEACE
PROPOSALS, BELIEF IN BERLIN
The following dispatch was received by the United Press today in re
sponse to a request for comment on the report that Germany had decided to
of k for peace. It s believed to be of tremendous significance in view of the
fact that t was passed by the German censor.
By CARL W. ACKEKMAN
United Press StaK CorresrwiHJent.
COLOGNE, Oct 7 (Dclaycd)r-It is not Impossible that Ambassador
Ocrard Is conveying peace proposals to America. Before departing from
Berlin ho held most important conferences with Chancellor von Bethmann
Ilollwcg, Foreign Secretary von Jagow. Doctor SoItT, Secretary for tho
Colonics, and several leading members of the Reichstag.
o, , Ii,J" l?,lcrcd hcro. $ i the time for Washington to make peace.
Only Washington can do this, because she, possesses such great influence with
London and Paris.
Now Is the psychological moment for if peace is not made now the war
must last another year as the winter campaign is now prepared.
An armistice Is not mentioned, but it is believed that President Wilson
can appeal to the Powers and ask them to send special representatives to
Washington to ncgotlato peace.
In the meantime, tho war can go on and these negotiations may form the
basis of a durable peace.
SUBMARINE SINKS
ALLIED TRANSPORT
WITH 638 SOLDIERS
French and Serbians Lost
on Craft in Mediter
ranean Attack
1362 MEN WERE RESCUED
TAIUS, Oct 9. The French auxiliary
cruiser Gallia, of 14,966 tons, carrying 2000
French and Serbian troops; was torpedoed
on October 4, It was announced here toftay.
Only 638 lives were lost; the rest of the
troops floated for more than twelve hours
on rafts and boats. They were picked up
tho next day by a French cruiser and two
large boats and haie arrived off the south
ern coast of Sardinia.
, '
As the torpedo which was dispatched, it
Is believed, by a German submarine, en
tered the big vessel's side, a terrific blast
blow the ship into atoms. The missile
had exploded In a munitions bunker.
It Is believed the Gallia was on the way
to Salonlca and came from Corsica, where
French and Serbian troops ore stationed.
The Gallia's wireless was destroyed, pre
venting the ship from calling for help In
tho few minutes before what was left of
her sank. The French cruiser which saved
the survivors on the following day, was
summoned by a patrol boat
The Gallia was one of the largest vessels
on the Companle de Navigation Sud-At-lantlque
and before the war piled between
French and South Atlantlo ports. She was
built In 1913 and hailed from Bordeaux.
WELCOME SHOUTS
GREET BOYS, HOME
FROM MEXICO LINE
First Regiment Parades
Broad Street as Throngs
Cheer Widely
NOW TRAINED SOLDIERS
Reading Counsel on Board
William It. Klnter, assistant general
counsel for the Philadelphia and Reading
Railway Company, was elected to the board
of directors of the company at the meeting
today In place of Henry C Frlck, of New
York, who declined re-election. Mr. Klnter
also was elected to the board of the Phila
delphia and Reading Coal and Iron Com
pany, where Mr, Frlck also declined re
election. Other members of the board of
both companies were re-eleoted. The direc
tors of the Reading Company, who met
earlier, received and approved the annual
report for that company. The full board of
directors was re-elected. Including Mr.
Frlck, who did not deollne re-election In the
holding company.
A wave of patriotism sucn as has not
been experienced since the Spanish-American
war swept Philadelphia today when
members of the First Regiment, bronzed
and seasoned from service on the Mexican
border, marched up Broad street through a
lane flanked by cheering throhgs.
The spectacle gladdened the hearts of
pessimists, who were certain that the true
American splrll of patriotism had, long
'since died In Philadelphia.
From the Pennsylvania Railroad station
at Broad street and Washington avenue to
Convention Hall, at Broad street and Alle
gheny avenue, Broad street was lined on
both sides with thousands of men, women
and children, who waved flsgs and shouted
themselves hoarse In their enthusiasm. It
was a home-coming reception that exceeded
the fondest dreams of the special Joint
councllmanlo committee In charge of. the
celebration.
LOOK LIKE REGULARS
There were evidences an along the line
of march that the people who remained at
home were deeply affected by the soldierly
appearance of the First Regiment The
returning soldier boys revealed evidences
of their long training on the border. They
were full of "pep," their step and forma
tion was almost perfect They marched
like regulars, with their shoulders thrown
back and their heads erect By the set of
their Jaws and their confident swing they
showed the effects of military discipline. It
was a revelation to the thousands who lined
the sidewalks.
The psychology of the crowds was in
teresting. In most cases there was a dead
silence when the First Regiment boys came
into view. Nothing could be heard but the
regular tramp of thousands of feet over
the asphalt.
The spectators leaned forward, noting
every detail of the home-coming troops.
Continued en .Pace Two, Column Three
MOTORTRUCK KILLS
BROTHER AND SJSTER;
" POLICE SAVE DRIVER
Boy and Girl, Bewildered by
Warning Shouts, Die Bravely
Trying to Save
Each Other
ON THEIR .WAY TO SCHOOL
A brother and sister. WUIIam and
Catharine Orubb, going hand in hand to
school, were' crushed to death today at
Forty-seventh street and Wyaluslng ave
nue by a seven-ton motortruck driven by a
'negro.
While the life of the little gjrl was fast
ebbing away on the asphalt street,. Father
William Kane, of Our Mother of Sorrows
Chureb, nearby, administered the last rites
of the ohuroh. He then rode with the ohll
drea to the Presbyterian Hospital.
William, who was rAx years old, and Us
nine-year-old lter Catharine were oi their
way to the paroohlal setteol of Ouc Mother
of Sorrows Chueh. TMjr left their home
at 481 Lalri wHh Mario SKoH sb4
Deretfey Tp1,
CWILDRsiK LAUHJfa
AM wera faHtghhW "
lBT-'WyJ4-r ett. They aroseed
yerty-seventh etree UgeW. Mho a tUsh
the U wotortryok, lesta4 KM
with heavy ohtunM, o U tke laUraee
Us wf the tttislre were wesstag, It
Ariwr wi Mo harm, www t aMr
"rf
GERMAN SUBMARINE
AcnvrriEsmr stocks
FOR SHARP DECLINES
Losses of Threo to Sixteen
Points as Holders Dump '
Shares on the
Market
GRAIN AND COTTON DROP
NEW YORK, Oct . Like a bolt from
the blue the activities of the Oerman sub
marine or submarines off the New Eng,
land coast struck the stock market today.
There was a near panic as stocks dropped
from I to It points soon after the start
of trading at 10 o'clock. The weakness
4n the stock market was communicated to
wheat at Chicago, where tosses of two to
four cents were registered. Cotton broke
from S1.B0 to II a bale. Later both eetton
and grain reoovered somewhat
Net slnee the death of Governor Flower
has the ateok market shewn sueh owe
from the elealng of the H-eeedl 'day. This
was the first real reaotletu to the steak;
market in nearly a mothj during hie
tho prtees have been raevlBg steadily up
ward. Thousanas of small speculators saw
their sper prt r way lnt the air
and their aocounU wer wiped out as sep
teas order ' te stoeM
dumped on the market.
Order to sell m ttm all se4ioas er
the oovntry, aad the wire how had aulte
an smomi'i'si "ii mmniiisM
muattMM t A Skim im tho we.
but Us ftMlMii
a .
iC.
RED SOX TIE
SCORE IN THE
THIRD ROUND
Scott's Triple and Infield
Out by Babe Ruth Gives
Boston a Run
SHERROD SMITH HURLS
Brooklyn Scores First Tally of
Second Game on Myers's
Home Run
SSHK
i mv',
SHERROD SMITH
Opened the gamo on the mound for?
Brooklyn. '
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
BRAVES' FIKLD, Boston, bet 9
Brooklyn scored in the first inning of the
second game of the world's ' series today
when HI Myers hit the first ball pitched to
him by Babe Ruth to the center-field fence,
with two men out
In the third Boston tied up the score on
Scott's triple and an Infield out. The at
tendance today was 115,000.
Manager Robinson surprised the critics
when he trotted Sherrod Smith to the
mound.
Ruth shot the first two balls on John
ston, and it looked as If he was in the
hole, but he raised a fly to Walker. Gard
ner went over to the bench on the second
ball pitched to catch Daubert's fly.
Myers hit the first ball a terrific dtp be
tween Walker and Hooper. They chased
after It, each taking a flying dive to inter
cept its course, but the old ball skipped on
merrily to the fence, yrMlt Myers touched
all of the bases for a home run. The ef
fect of this wallop was great and whereas
earlier in the game the Dodgers were look
ing for mercy, now they were fighting mad.
The third out wniy registered when Harry
Hooper pulled down Wheat's drive.
Sherrod Smith was trotted out by Man
ager Robinson as t,he pitcher to the amass
ment of 86,000 people. Hooper had the
count two and two, when he rolled to
Smith, who threw him out Janvrin lined to
H. Myers. Walker fouled to Daubert
Cmm.TL.VhAT BY OARDNER
Cutshaw almost took Gardner off his feet
with a terrific line drive, but the former
Pittsburgh lnflelder grabbed the ball as it
bounced away from him and threw, him
out to HobllUeU. It was a great play.
Mowrey lined to Janvrin. Olson struck out
Olson threw out Hoblltxell. Lewis
singled over second. Gardner's smash got
away from Mowrey and rolled away, .and
was relayed to Cutshaw, forcing Lewis at
second. Gardner was caught napping off
first, Smith to Miller to Daubert
Miller was easy for Scott and Hoblltxell,
Smith hit down the right field foul line for
two bases, but was out trying to stretch
the drive, Hooper to Walker to Scott Ji,m
ston singled to center. He died stealing.
BOSTON SCORBS
Scott tripled to the fence In left fleld.
Thomas hit ttfe first ball pitched to Dau
bert, who toeeed him out at first Ruth
hit, the first bait pitched to Cutshaw, who
fumbled the grounder, allowing Seot'to
.seore, but Ruth was out at first Hooper
fouled the first ball to the press box. The
aeoend he'hlt to Cutshaw, who let the easy
roller ga right through him. Janvrin hit
the first ball -pitched to Oteon, feretng
Hooper at seeond.
Jake Daubert watered three balls go wide
of the plate, and a strike, then walked.
The first ball pKebed to Ml My was
wide of the plate aad he H4 not swing
at it The x wa -riafct' ever aa4 he
fouled H 9 fat a MriHe. Te eotmt was
Um a tWwtm VyM Mt tula a deuHs
tor, 8stt to Jwvria to WstJWuM
put Use ass two tkMMfc tl pwM mi
IfffcMft ws tksw bsJL Whs tlM ptt
. VLptu A kj' . ... '(W-
LATEST SPORTS
BROOKINN'-.
BOSTON CaVu)..
h. -" .
0 0 10 0 0 0
10 0 0 0 0 0'
, SmlUt nutl IClUor; IUith and Thomas'. Umpires, Oinecn, be
hind the fefttt Quifley, on the bnsea; Connolly And 0'D.y, on the
foul linos.
s
,
-H
THE CmME IN DETAIL
TIItST INNING Johnston filed to Walker. Daubert fouled to
Gardiner. Myers mndc n home run on the first ball pitched. It wno
n terrific smash that cleared Walker's head nnd rollrd to tho fence.
Wheat filed to Hooper. One run, one hit, no errors.
Hooper out, Smith to Daubert. Jnnvrin filed to Myers. Walker
filed to Daubert. No runs, no hits, no errors.
SECOND INNING Cutshaw out, Ruth to HoblUzsll. Motkv
lined to Janvrin. Olson fnnncd. No run?, no hits, no errors.
Hoblitcell nut, Olson to Daubert. Lewis singled through short.
Gardner forced L'-.ls at second, Mo'vicy to Olson to Cutshav, Mowrry
deflecting the ball to short. Gaidner out, napping off first, Miller to
Daubert. No urns, one hit, no errors.
THIItD INNINO Miller out, Ecott to Hobby. Smith doubled
to right, but was out trying to strotch it, Hooper to Janvrin to Gard
ner. Johnston singled to center. Johnston out,, trying to steal,
Thomas to Janvrin. No runs, two'bits, no errors.
Scott tripled over Wheat's head. The ball Tolled to tho fence and
only tho robound saved it from being a home run. Thomas otit, Cut
Bhrsyr to Daubert, Scott holding third. Scott scored on Ruth's out,
Cutshaw to Daubert. Hooper safe on Cutshnw's error. JnnvrTn forced
Hooper nt icrcud, Olson to Cptshnw. One run, ono hit ens error.
rOURTH INNING Daubcit wnlkcd. Myers hit into n dot"
play, Scott to Janvrin to Hobby. Wheat out, Ruth to Hobby. t7j
runs, no hits, no errors.
Walker out, Smith to Daubert. Hobby walked. Lewis hit lutq
n double piny, Mowiey to Cutshaw to Daubert. No runs, ho hits,
FIETK INNING Cutshaw fanned Mowrey 6it, Janvrin t6
Hobby. Olson singled to left. Miller filed to Hoofer. ;JJo runs,
, one hit, no errors.
v 1 Gardner out, Cutshaw to Daubert. Scott out, Mowrey to Dau
bert. Thomas tripled along tho left field line. Buth fanned. No
runs, one hit, no errors.
SIXTH INNING Smith out, Scott to Hobby. Johnston strolled.
Johnston out stealing. Daubert out, Gardner to' Hobby. No runs,
no hits, no errors.
Hooper out on n fly which Myers caught at his shoe tops and
then somersaulted. Janvrin filed to Myers. Walker out, Cutshaw
to Daubert. No runs, no hits, no errors.
SEVENTH INNING Myers ou, Janvrin to Hobby. Wheat was
out, Janvrin to Hobby. Cutshaw out on a fly to Hobby. No runs,
no hits, no errors. ,
Hobby walked, Lewis out on a sacrifice, Smith to Daubert,
Hobby going to second. Gardner filed to Olson. Scott forced Hobby
at third, Mowrey, unassisted. No runs, no hits, no errors.
1
LANCASTER VOLUNTEERS AT REUNION
LANCASTER, Oct. 0. The annual reunion of the 135 survivors
of the Seventy-ninth Pennsylvania Volunteers, Lancaster County's
Own, is being held hero today . The following officers wore elected:
President, Captnln John Druckmlller, Sayre, Pa.; vice presidents, Wil
liam Bllckenderfer, Lancaster; Captain Edward Barry, Philadelphia;
Captain Philip Blrsinger, Reading; secretary, W. P. Hambright, Lan
caste'r treasurer, H. O. Bhenck, Lancaster; chaplain, B, Enbenshade,
Lancaster. After dinner at the Stevens House the veterans opened
A campflre at Grand Army'Xall,
WOMAIPFOUND DEAD 5 CAUSE WILL BE INVESTIGATED
LAUREL, Del., Oct.' 0, Mrs. Plorenco Taylor, one of Sussex's
most popular women, diedUhls morning .under circumstances which
will be Investigated. When found by' a" maltha bottle of chforofors
was held la one hand. 'J" '
U-BOATS DIDN'T VIOLATE LAW OFFICIALS SAT"
WASHINGTON, Oct, 9, The U-53 and U-61 Have not YeWU4
luternayional law. This wh statl officially this afternoon tVm 'misj
a Mfritc Between ertry of the Navy Daniels ami ssary
of Mat Lsiaf osraiiMr tho slnklsg of at Uert six vessels and
NIGHT
EXTRA
PRICE (XNIJ GENT
JEALOUSY VISION
BLAMED IN ELLIS
DOUBLE TRAGEDY'
Society Man, 111, Had De
lusions Recrardincr Slain, r
Wife's Fidelity l' $
LOVE LETTERS ARE FOUND
''M
SjaBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBWBBSBBBBBSBBBBlf
1SBBBBBBBBBBBBbV i''3slBBBBB V '
BSBBBBBbV i aBSBBBPSVH
iBSSSSSSSSfc. SlsBBssSBRt
isSBBBBBBsm " l mTSBSbB ?5
SBlBBBBBW A 21 JtsaiBBBBBBT 1
SSSBBBBBSW . MJi SBBBBBBsV
sssbbbbV ;i ' VS "''ssP!3 "'4
BSBBBBBBBBBBBBsf It Z t WilsflBlBBBBBBBV " t t
m im
MR. AND MRS. WILLIAM
' HOWELL ELLIS I
Nervous derangement, culminating In as
uncontrollable homicidal mania, is believed
by officials Investigating the case to liv.'
Impelled William Howell Ellis to kill his
wife, Augusta Wllloughby Kills, and to
shoot himself at Hollyhock Farm, the
Ellis home on the Bethlehem pike at Ban
nockburn avenue, one half mile south of
Ambler.
Letters found today In the rooms oosu
pled by the couple show that Sills had long
been in 111 health. Some of the letters,
written by the wife to her husband, express
solicitude for Ellis's condition and hope that
fits of despondency and gloom, from whlek
he had suffered, had passed. The notes are
couched in affectionate terms, as are other
letters written by Kills to his wife dttrtog
the same period
Intimate friends and neighbors declase
that the home life of the couple was t4e4
in its happiness. Th'j only rift, thysy,
was occasioned by Ellis's delusions.
JEALOUSY DELUSIONS
Dr. J. Murray 'xilaey, of Chestaut HW,
the family physician, said today that MUta "
was a man of wfitiawiliy high-strung a4
nervous temperament, and during the tut -
ell months had' Buffered from delusion, - -v'
among whleh was the imaginary heUeC Hsftl
hi wife was unfaithful to him. Mrs,
loved her hueband devotedly, Dootor :
says, and MM himself, Mt Me
'periods, reciprocated her aasMotC
Wits himself fer4 he weuld
mind, aoeerdtng to.Soetef JBey, mi
msiitka asua tiStacaaJ Itta -sltlsTi s 1tsMs A mjtgjlf H
IIIUIIU jW " SRI " " ssr ww sssssSsWlWl'
tega Srlwf. teUtegiter h twred h wasj r4
d nee tiooiiy Maws f fe pjwaiwss hi m
-J-fU. tkA IsMM4 Uk,
Mr. We aseiJid ts hr bussiaads re
euteet tuA'weiit tt tste home of her
Nr, umk Mrs, WUUms 8. Of. at
Meat, BkMWtsys Mm te wttti saw
tfcsee oMMren of tb owsOa, rnutk.
jktmt WHUs).
wttt Ok sMMmm stn4NN
r"r W
3 V. , j. T
4JwW tn&m-J
A4fcJ
