Tium -in q Reh
--- - 4 - ~
anO 36f3 asEth1 W.T
damn pm ip~s sq b adg
NO. 36436'-nm WASHD(QTOI(.. D. C. ifONDA:Y OCTOBER 9. 1916.
U-BO.
FRENCH ONRUSH
SWEEPS 5 MILES
Advance to Sailly Follows Pul
verizing of German Defense.
(my the Internatiemal ews Servie.)
Paris, Oct. 8.-When, after a week's
rain. fine weather came yesterday.
Gen. Foch advanced his line on a five
mie front to a depth attanng a mle at
some piaces.
Gen. Fayolle was ordered to reach
the outskirts of Sailly Saillisel. which
when the Somme offensive began, con
attuted the easternmost base of the
German line, between Peronnt and
Bapaume. defendng the plan leadng
to Cambral.
The Eastern army corps. consisting
mostly of Paris',n drnIs. went Ia
battle. The artllery had so thoroughly
pulverised the German defense works,
that the objectives were reached with
in ma ibur and the position was se
curely consolidated.
Two hours later the Carlsbad. Tep
lits and Berlin trenches, as well as the
defense on the outakrts of St. Perre
Vaast wood, were carried In an irre
sistible onrush.
The German artillery never made a
poorer showing. Short igI in shells
was evident, from the felw ill-timed
barrages turned . but the infantry
fought fiercely.
The German line had been worn thin
at Sailly and a violent crossfir, was
turned on by the French batteries,
pinning the troops in their rear
tienches and inflicting serious loss.
Gen. Fayol l's men are now 200
,.:'ds from Sailly Saillisel and are
enveloping strongly the fortified St.
Perre-Vaast wood, one of the last
(el man strongholds north of the Pe
ronne.
Once this wood is carried. Gen. Fay
olle wit have smplfied the task of
reducing the final rampart. Mt. St.
Quentin.
Six lively aerial cembats were
fought and French aviators bombard
.4 Moislains and Vaux wood. north of
Feronne.
RADIIAL PREDIUTONS
OFFERED BY NISIHR
Universal Sobriety and Votes for
Wome. Inihded,
"The world is fast moving toward the
last and the greatest civilization that the
universe has ever known and the North
.\merican continent will be its seat." said
the Rev. James L. Gordon. pastor of the
First Congregational Church in his ser
mon on "The New Sovereign Racea-Shll
It Be German. British or American?"
"Though not a prophet or the son of a
prophet. I predict," he said, "with the
coming of the new civilization five pre
dominant things:
"First, universal language and that the
tongue of John Milton and the immortal
Shakespeare. I stand for the protection
t the mother tongue, the English lan
guage.
'Second: Remoxal of all tariff walls be
tneen the nations of the earth.
'Third: Political equality of men and
women.
'Fourth: 1:qual distribution of wealth
accordir g to skill and ability.
"Fifth. Hestriction of the liquor traf
fEc and universal sobriety."
On next Sunday night Dr. Gordon will
give the first of a series of sermons on
home life, "How Much Does It Cost to
Furnish a Home for Two?" It was an
nounced that the furniture and -fittings
will be in the church and a practical
demonstration given of the cost of fur
nishing a modest home for newlyweds.
HEALTH BOARD OUTDOES
PATENT MEDICINE MAN
6pedal to The Washington Healld
Madison, Wis., Oct. 8-Going the pit
ent medicine faker and the old-time med
icine wagon with its entertainers and its
official "barker" one better, the health
wagon of the Wisconsin AntWubercu
losis Association Is making its first tour
of the State.
It carries its own moving picture show,
one that can be shown in villages or at
the crossroads, its health exhibit, a large
supply of health information, and Its own
"barker" and entertainer. The "barker"
is "Ted" Werle, widely known as the
motorcycle evangelist of the Wisconsin
Anti-Tuberculosis Association and orig
inator of the ''flying squadron of health."
The health wagon, in fact, is the latest
development in the organized movement
to carry health information into rural
districts.
FIGHTING ON THE EAST
HALTED BY EXHAUSTION
I 1y the International News Serv6e.)
London, Oct.' &-The hard fighting
which has been in progress on the long
Galician and Volhynian front appears to
have subsided almost completely, prob
ably upon the exhaustion of the contend
ing forces.
The war chancelleries of the principal
aations involred-Russia, Gerainy and
Austria-all report tonight that lapthing
of Importance has occurred within the
past twenty-floer boors,
Wholesale desertions from the Turkish
army In the Caucaus are reported in a
Petrograd war office statement teday.
Binow 4FPORTNITE,
PEOlN 3. 713 TO NATE YOUR Wilt
du d-a--, Aee nd Cbi Osisg Ca,
There isn't a went you caa
think of that can't be flled
through the "Want Ads" In The
HER(ALD. The little annoes
ment that appeas above is pi
enl of scores of ads preests a
solutions to everyday proble.
You can hIre an auto, buy a
ose4 car, rent a ron, scure a
tenat, get help, get a job, ber
cslunsT
ATHI
RUTH VS. COOMBS
Pitchers Selected for Today's
World Series Game.
By FRANK G. MUENKE.
(Interastieual News services.)
Boston, Mass.. Oct. .-"We'll come back
tomorrow-and we'll win in the end." de
clared Wilbert Robinson tonight. But the
ikudger chieftain and his tribe are al
most alone in their belief that the Brook
lynitee have the wallop necessary to land
them victory in the fight for the titular
honors of baseball.
The real sentiment of the outcome of
the mere. was reflected today in the
wagering-or rather the lack of It. The
folks who were so eager to bet on the
championship before yesterdays game,
at any odds they could get. are nowhere
to be found now. Offers of 2 to 1 and 5
to 2 which the Red Sox enthusiasts are
making have found no recipients. It has
been a betleas day.
The Dodgers' hopes in the fracas of
the morrow probably will rest upon the
1ged. but still cunning right arm of Jack
oTINUD ON PAGE EIGHT.
Telegraph Tips
Philadelphia, Oct. 8.-While dancing in
a studio Thorpas Earle White, a prom
inent attorney and one-time athlete. was
stricken with heart disease and died. Mr.
White was 59 years old.
His mother, Mrs. Caroline Earle White,
founder of the Women's Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, died
about a month ago, leaving her estate.
valued at more than $1,000,000, to him.
Baltimore, Oct. 8.-His curiosity arous
ed when he saw a crowd congregating at
5M Welcome alley, caused Raymond
Lane. colored, to investigate. Before he
got close enough to learn the cause of
the commotion his investigation was cut
short by two bullets that found lod;
ment in his left arm. He went to Mercy
Hospital without having his curiosity
gratified.
Fennville, Mich.. Oct. .-Mrs. Florence
I. Dutcher. 53 years old, an Invalid of na
tional fame, has been buried here. Mrs.
Dutcher. a philanthropist, was blind.
paralyzed and almost deaf for many
ycars. Despite her infirmities Mrs. Dut
cher took an active Interest in Y. W. H1.
A. work and founded the Florence I.
Dutcher library at Toloda.
IAndon. Oct. 8.-The sudhn death of
Herr Paul Boothy, ptesidet of the Hun
garian Diet. is reporto in a udapest
dispatch to the Reuter -Telegiam Com
pany. Herr Beothy was formerly min
ibter of commerce.
Danville, Ind., Oct. 8.-Two trainmen
were killed when an eastbound Cincin
nat. Indianapolis and Western freight
train crashed into a westbound freight
which was switching cars to a siding at
Maplewood, near here.
Verona, N. J.. Oct. 8.-While Jack
Ftost has paid stolen visits to this see
tion of New Jersey during the past week,
he left undamaged the gardens of Mr.
and Mrs. Ernest De Baun, of Pompton
avenue. Cedar Grove. Mr. and Mrs. De
Baum have bee able to add big red,
luscious strawbe s and raspberries to
their dinner menus.
Paterson, N. J., Oct. 8.-Paterson resi
dents are so thrifty these days that the
savings banks are fairly bursting with
deposits and all known records are going
to smash. During July and August sav
ings deposits in the five trust companies
of the city, the Paterson Savings Insti
tution and the savings department of the
Second National Bank were increased by
$1,24,516.71, reaching the highest total of
savings ever accumulated in Paterson.
S30.784,696.69.
Cleveland. Ohio, Oct. 8.-The final busi
ness session of the annual convention of
the Brotherhood Ot St. Andrew of the
Protestant Episcopal Church here has se
lected Philadelphia for the 1917 meeting
and re-elected Edward H. Bonsall, of the
same city, president.
North Attleboro. Mass., Oct. R-Mr .
Ann E. Metcalf. a real daughter of the
revolution, died at her home near Dia
mond Hill. She was 87 years of age, a
daughter of John and Elizabeth Whip
pie, and was born in the house in which
she died. Her father was a revolutionary
soldier.
Bellaire, OhIo, Oct. 8.-Demands for a
seven-hour day will be made by coal
miners of the country at the coming
wage conferences, according to John P.
White, president of the United Mine
Workers of America.
New York, Oct. .-While Bicycle Po
liceman Henenlotter was searching the
home of Mrs. Theresa Regler, 95 Belmont
avenue. East New York. for a burglar
vesterday. the thief eluded the policeman,
escaped into the yard. vaulted a fence
into a lot adjoining, cleared another fence
into the street and sped away on the po
liceman's bicycle.
London, Oct. 8.-Charles Lock, a gypsy,
has just been Aned at Carnarvon, Wales.
for representing himself as a horse buyer
for the war ofloe in order to frighten
farmers Into parting with their animals
at a low price. He told the farmers the
government wanted the horses to send
before the troop. in, order to test the
ground.
IndIanapolis, Oct. 8.-A. memoil meet
ing in honor- of James Whitcomh Riley
was held in a local theater tonight.
New York, Oct. 8.--A etain on a brke
window found after the garage of Ctia
T. Wheeler, of Bedferd Rulls ha
robbed of a motor car led to the arret
of George Brando.. a chauffeur, of Ne.
IS8 East Ninety-ninth street. Thsre was
a Dnger paint on the stain.
Los Angeles. Oct. 3.-Attacked by two
large eaglee, three deer shooters fought
a ierce battle for neerly an heour in e
bialibu hflls before they suoamjde in
killingne of them and driving the ethers
to fight. The clothing of the asm was
tora to shreds by the ,tans et thteJ
inriated ma=ne=
Atteed Groat Uu w
flaltimore and Ohio eeso sa
I to 13. valid. for rij
3.15. 'edlia2 train ftem W
at 7:30 a. m. Oct. 11 sa 12,
mime der. 2P.2S ramm
AIDE
ALLIES DEMAND
BAN ON U-BOATS
Sharp Issue Between Britain
and U. S. Brought Near.
Extension of submarine warfare to the
American coast has opened a new diplo
matic dispute with Great Britain.
It was said at the British Embassy last
night that the United States will be call
ed upon to decide immediately whether
any more U-boats shall be permitted to
enter American ports. The allies con
tend that the entrance of such boats Into
American harbors violates neutrality.
The question was first raised In the
case of the Deutschland, but as the
Deutschland was decided by the United
States to be a commercial submarine.
Secretary Lansing declined to pass upon
the Issue until a concrete case, involving
the entrance of a war submarine, had
arisen.
That concrete case has now arisen.
Since the case of the Deutschland arose,
Spain. Sweden and Norway have, ao
cording to the British Embassy, ac
Cepted the view taken by the allies and
have adopted regulations excluding war
submarines.
The United States Navy Department
holds, however, that the U-53 was wholly
within her rights in entering Newport
and that submarines are entitled to all
the privileges of any warship. If the
State Department maintains this atti
tude there will be the sharpest possible
conflict of opinion between the American
and British governments.
The American government will be call
ed upon to pay indemnity for all ships
sunk by submarines that receive the hos
pitality of American ports.
DECLARES SUBMARINES
VIOLATE NEUTRALITY
Capt. Hertz, Late of Allied Forces,
Says U-53 Is Mother Ship.
(fBy the Intersatemal News series.)
New York. Oct. 8.-That the U-53 is the
trans-Atlantic submarine merchantman
Amerika in the assertion of Capt. Doug
las Herta. an American who has served
with t)S allied armies. He is lecturing
on thl' war. Last Friday " said he had
seen the Bremen. captured. in a British
port, and that the Amerika was bound
here I its sted. It then predileted her
safe arrival soon.
'After the Bremen'a capture the Ger
mans did not dare to send the Amerika
over unarmed." he said. "They have
simply repainted her and slapped a few
guns on her, and sent her ever."
The big U-boat which is devastating
FhIpping' off Nantucket is a mother ship
of three smaller submarines within ten
miles of our coast. Capt. Hqrtz said he
had been Informed. The officer-lecturer
believes the Amerika's crew and that of
the U-53 are Identical.
'The submarine is out there obviously
for the sole purpose of violating Interna
tional law." said Capt. Hertz. "She is
using this country as a base, and its
wireless to send communication, ''
Capt. Hertz charged that Count von
Bernstorff's offices had been used as a
base for directing all belligerent opera
tions against the allies.
BUCKSHOT GRESTWO
CHESTNUT GATHERERS
E. W. Eden May Lose Sight--C. D.
Howells Wounded.
Earl W. Eden and Clifton D. Howells,
of 453 Newton street northwest, were both
shot with buckshot while gathering chest
nuts on Sixteenth street extended yes
terday afternoon. A. R. Brady, on whose
property they were, Is under arrest
charged with the shooting.
Eden received a wound in his right
eye where one of the shots made its way
wort'v into the iri.. Doctors at the Epis
copal Eye. Ear and Throat Hospital, were
endeavoring last night to save his sight.
Howells received a load of shot in the
breast. His wound is said not to be
serious.
According to Eden and Howells, they
had been motoring out Sixteenth street
and were returning when they noticed
the chestnuts. They stopped t eir ma
chine and go out to gather a fe. Brady
appeared and shot at them, the boys de
clared.
Brady, who is a former policeman, was
arrested by Sergt. McCormack and Pa
trolman A. Buckingham last night and
locked up in the Tenth precinct station
on a charge of assault with a dangerous
weapon. He told the police the men
were trespassing and he warned them oI.
TAMRS HIGEWAYMEfS GUM.
Neg" Sailor 3qxes Their Slars and
Tells Them to Run iome.
Baltimore. Md.. Oct. 1.-Bold highway
men, even though they are armed with
pistols, strIke no fear to the heart of
George Reed, colored, a cook aboard the
harbor tug M. ,B. Hunt. Reed walked
up to Sergt. Harry HIll, of the Southern
district, on Light street, and handed hIm
a loaded revolver.
"Some white boys just tried to hold me
up with that," he said in egplanation, so
t took it away from them."
Reed also said he bs~d the ears of
the youthful banidits and taM them to run
along home.
SAYS POPE 'OUR 131."
New Yerk, Oct. 1-a the Roman Catbro
lie churches throughout the archdiocese
priests on Sundap negt wdl read from
toe altar a paSteral leIrfrom Cardinal
John narley in wheoa a wIN h. .tated
that Pope Benedict XP "stoon heaven
with violence in pts er the return of
penes"
- The letter d5M g MUy negt asI
the der for the. ssa eection for'
Peter's pence.
KSI
..VESSE
THE NEW
nan U-Boat Warfare.
two neutral, sunk off New England
raft possibly operating in co-opera
York for Brest. France; 4,321 tons
laden with munitions.
lon for Newport News: crew of 35
:ross Line, Halifax for New York:
ed by Canadian Steamship Lipe,
ry.
regian; 4,224 tons; sunk oif Nan
Nantucket Shoals lightship.
WILSON AWAITS
KAISER'S ENVOY
Bernstorff Expected to Explain
Daring Raids of U-53.
(my the Isternatienal News Service.)
Asbury Park, N. J., Oct. .-Extraor
dinary interest is attached to a confer
ence between President Wilson and the
German Ambassador. Count von Berns
torff. at Shadow Lawn tomorrow. An
official explanation of the mysterious
visit of the submarine U-53 at Newport.
which was followed almost immediately
by 0e raids at the Eastern doorway to
the United States, will be expected of the
Kaiser's representative, it in said.
The President telephoned from Shadow
Lawn to the executive offices here this
afternoon. asking for all information ob
tainable concerning the operations of the
submersible off the New England eoast.
A oommugleation from Washingten
said a rebolt from Admiral Austin X.
Knight. at Newport. who talked with
Capt. Hans Rose, of the daring sea raid
er, would probably not be received be
fore Monday.
The situation is known to be regarded
with deep concern. both as affecting pol
itics at home and international relations
Before the hostile activities of the U-63
were reported, the explanation of the
German commander that 'he crossed the
ocean in the face of toe British enemy
for the sole purpose of delivering a hag
of mail for Ambassador von Bernstorf
was not accepted seriously at Shadow
Lawn.
Within the last few days the Presi
dent has expressed fear that any inter
ference by this administration in the
European situation might be capitalized
by his political opponents.
SWEEPING CLAIMS MADE
BY WILSON CAMPAIGNER
IBy the internatiemal News Serviee.)
New York. Oct. S--New York, Indiana.
California. Washington and other States
give every indication of rolling up splen
did pluralities for the President." said
Democratic National Chairman McCor
mick tonight.
"The campaign has progressed to that
point where it is possible to get a clear
perspective. Mr. Hughes straddles. But
Col. Roosevelt, his chief spokesman,
boldly asserts that the United States
should have pursued a course in its for
eign relations that would have plunged
us in a war with Germany. "RoosevelI
is the substance, Hughes is the shadow
in the Republican campaign.
"It is Wilson with honorable peace and
plentitude versus Hughes with war and
its accompanying desolation, misery and
starvation.'
DOG BIT CLURB N.
Dr. David L. Wing- Bitten on Both
Hands.
Dr. David 1- Wing, a member of the
Cosmos Club, was bitten on both hands
yesterday morning by a Boston bull ter
rier, as he fas passing Sixteenth and
Longfellow streets northwest. The dog,
belonging to Miss Mary Dove, of 1740 New
Hampshire avenue, was said to be suf
fering from a fit and later died.
Dr. Wing was treated by Dr. Holden.
of 2111 Sixteenth street northwest, and
last night his hand was said to be con
siderably improved.
WISON TO SPUAK IN WEST.,
President Starts Wednesday to Casa
paign in Indiana.
Asbut7 Park. N. J7., Oct. 8.-President
Wilson will Idave Shadow Lawn on Wed
nemsa for Indianapolis, where he will
mak. several campaign speeches on
Thursd~ay. He will return to him mummerj
home i thne to addrese a gathering of
Pennsyivaa Democrats Saturday.
Willia P. McComnbe, Democratic nom
Inee for United Slates Senator, ham been
invited to Shadowl Lawn for luncheon
ltuesday.
CRWIT3D NEWP0ET SARH.
Hundred c'adaes Anard v...e:
Creestag oeean Under Canvas.
besal ts 'b.Whe i wede miad.
New Test Oct. 3.-The training ship
ltewport, with 100 cadete on board, ham
put Out under sail from Horta, in the
&iorem . aftig having lest her propeller
me tail sag
The boer of governors of the New
rat' hate Nautical Sc4l reeived to
in a'atWs message from pt. P. a. Mc
Emrray-undfr the Newport, ay
Ist that he had left thle port under a.
~The eeUdt to the Newport esmrrdj
3IX SHIP
5 TORPEDOED
ENGLAND COAST
STARTLING EXPLOIT
FOLLOWS VISIT OF
"SUB" AT NEWPORT
Crews Given Chance to Launch Lifeboats.
U. S. Naval Craft to Rescue-Ameri
can Ship Halted, but Not Molested.
(Ra ta=* ==0 ===ner .. s ...>
Newport, R. I.. Oct. 8.-Lying of Nantucket light. where every
liner bound to and from New York must get its bearings, the Ger
man submarine U-53, aided probably by one or two other war
submarines, torpedoed and sunk six ships today. Four of them
were British, one a passenger carrier. The others were neutral, one
Dutch and the other Norwegian. An American steamship was held
up, but was allowed to proceed.
Admiral Knight, commander of the naval station here, says the
Nantucket lightship reports a second German submarine near by.
Naval officers say they expect a feet of German submarines will
blockade every Atlantic harbor from which munitions ships leave.
IEST OF U-BOAT ViCIMS.
'The vessels sunk are:
West Point, British freighter. 2,413 tons, bound from London
to Newport News; crew of thirty-fie.
Strathdene, British freighTer. 4,312 tons, bound from New
York to Brest; crew of fifty.
Stephane, British passenger ship, 3.449 toms, bound frmn Hah
fax to New York; eighty-thrum pasngers and crew of seety4we.
- w ... CAN . 2.952 s.A
1j,~ D-h fre-ihter, 3.201 bon, d from New
York to Rotterdam; crew of thirty-five.
Christian Knudsen, Norwegian tanker, 2.583 tons, bound from
Tuxpam to London, via Perth Amboy; crew of thirty.
R/IDS BEGIN AT DAYBREAK.
The U-53 began her depredations at daybreak this morning. So far as
is known, there has been no loss of life. but the crew of one steamer, the
Kingston, is in open boats.
Seventeen of the fastest destroyers in the United States navy are
ploughing through the fog in search of them.
The U. S. S. Balch has flashed the radio stations that she expects to
arrive after midnight with the first of those rescued.
The innocent looking engine of war which lay at anchor for a few
homrs in the inner harbor here yesterday afternoon became a death-dealing
demon no sooner than she had sped past the three-mile limit today.
AMERICAN FREIGHTER SIGHTED.
She first sighted the American freighter. Kansan, making her way
through the dim light of early morning from New York to Boston. Capt.
Rose, the suave and keen-eyed commander of the U-53. personally stood
on the bridge and hailed the Kansan. The freighter was not detained long.
After inspecting the ship's papers, Capt. Rose apologized and allowed
the vessel to proceed. The Kansan was fifty miles away from the zone
when her wireless operator picked up the dreaded S 0 S. It was from
the British ship West Point.
From station to station along the coast the distress call was repeated.
The captain of the Kansan instantly heeded the call. It was followed by
a message briefly saying the West Point had been attacked by a submarine
and was in danger of sinking. Her crew and passengers had taken to the
boats, ready to put to sea.
DESTROYERS FLY TO RESCUE.
Twenty minutes after the call was flashed to the Naval Training Sta
tion here, the torpedo boat destroyer Jarvis had left her moorings and
was headed for the open sea. She was rapidly followed by the other boats
of the flotilla. Crowding their boilers, the fleet navy boats started on the
hundred-mile journey of mercy.
But the Kansan was first to reach the rapidly sinking straner. She
beat the navy boats in the first race in American waters to sa e the lives
of persons imperilled by the ruthless undersea warfare.
Two hours later, the U-53, still loitering in the lanes of steamships
on their way to Boston or foreign ports, sighted the British freighter Strath
dene, bound from New York to Bordeaux.
LOADED WITH MUNITIONS.
The Strathdene, loaded with munitions of war for the allies, proved easy
prey for Capt. Rose and his men. Twenty minutes after the crew had taken
to the open boats she lifted her nose toward the sky and sank. Pluackily
battling the waves, the crew of the Strathdene managed to reach the Nan
tucket Shoals Lightship. There seventeen of them were found by the de
stroyer Balch.
Leaving the balance of the rescue work to her sister ships, the Baich
was ordered to return here by Admiral Knight.
It was soon after 5 o'clock that a wireless call at' the training statism
told of the torpedoing of a third ship. It was the Red Cross Stepheae,
to New York from Halifax. The Stephene received her vital blow at 4:s
o'clock. It was more than an hour later before the word had been received
here. In rapid succession tonight thes wireless sputtered its tales of disasesr
to the other ships.
The Kingston was the Grat to sink. Then followed the Bloomersdijk
and Knudsel.
U-55 CARRIEn gIX TORPEDOKS.
Naval edicers say the U-53 had only six torpedoes aboard wham s
left here yesterday. Norsqglly the submkrine carried eight, but two et
these were spenat om the vdpa these shoren. Capt. Rose himeseff'4.
his submersible earried but eight when she left Wilhelshavem. but he bud a
nothing to say by way of expa..sam.
Three- fMI divisions of the Atlantic destroyer lntilla are e.amaad af.
RSI
NEUTRAl
OFF
Latest Phases of Geri
Six steamers, four British and
coast by U-53, or other undersea <
tion with her, as follows:
S. S. Strathdene, British, New
registry; leased to French Line and
S. S. West Point. British, I.one
took to open lifeboats.
S. S. Stephane, British, Red I
crew took to boats.
S. S. Kingston, British, own
Toronto. Canada; 2,925 tons regist
S. S. Christian Knudsen. Nor,
tucket Shoals lightship.
S. S. Bloomerdijk, Dutch, ofI
ALLIES PATROL
ATLANTIC LANES
U. S. Navy Also Details War
ships to Guard Neutrality.
Through one of the allied embassies it
was learned last night that French and
British cruisers off the Atlantic coast
were in conference by radio. Three
cruisers were off Hampton Rtoads and
two or three off New York. It was said
that all but one of the warshipe would
rush to the New England coast.
Through the same source. It was ascer
tained that the allies would hurry war
ships from Bermuda and Canada to re
enforce the cruisers now on Atlantic pa
trol.
No information could be had here as
to a possible secret base for supplying
a German submarine fleet.
One serious spect of the submarine
warfarm it poInted out, would be a
bound up marine insurance.
In the behef that more than one sub
marine was off the coast. orders were
given by the Navy Department last night
to increase the American coastwise pa
trol within the three-mile limit. This
will be done in the interest of neutrality.
The United States han always protested
when it was alleged that a British ship
invaded the three-mile limit in pursuit
or attack, and no favors will be shown
Germany in this respect.
There is no disposition at either the
State or Navy Department to dispute the
right of Germans to make war where
they please, so long as they are outside
the three-mile limit.
SEEKS AMERICAN MATES
FOR GERMANY'S WIDOWS
Bpecal to The Washinston Heald.
Denver, Oct. 8.-Mrs. Rosalie Neumann,
charming and wealthy widow of Ham
burg. Germany, is on a mission in this
2ountry to relieve the husband famine
In Germany. She means to urge many
ligible American men to go to her native
Land to solace German girls and widows
bereaved by war.
"The greatest need in Germany after
the war." said Mrs. Neumann, "will be
husbands. In Utah I have six bachelor
nephews by marriage. They must show
their patriotism by marrying German
girls. American girls would not care.
You American girls like to be bachelor
maids."
DOMUInCANS DENOUNCE U. S.
Island Press Threatens to Stir Up
Serious Trouble.
Santo Domingo. Oct. .-As a result of
the bitter attacks being made upon the
Lnited States for its occupation of the
Dominican republic that have been ap
pearing in the press recently, fears are
!ntertained that an acute situation may
Lrise. Military authorities have cau
ioned American soldiers to exercise ut
nost patience.
Maj. Hiram I. Bears, U. U . M. C., has
:alled the governor of Santo Domingo
'Ity int conference in connection with
the articles.
BOY, FOUR, FIRS BAB'S CEIB.
rwe Philadelphia Children Victims
of Play with Matches.
Philadelphia, Pa., Oct. 8.-Two children
%ere are dying from injuries received
while playing awith matches.
After he had been put to bed Wallack
Derrick, 4, got up, went to the bathroom,
rot some matches and set fire to the crib
a which his sister, Catherine, 1 year old,
"sag sleeping. She was so badly burned
hat she will probably die.
When a boy threw a burning match
nto her filmy dress Marian Moecowits, 6,
Iras seriously burned,
DOUBT AS TO KING6TOJ.
Ship Sank May Be Norwegtan Ves
sel ef lame Nanne.
New York, Oct. L.-The IMingston, swunk
ry a subasrine off Nantucket light, was
lrst believed to be the former Great
Akes steamer owned by the Canaa
Iteamship Lines, Limited, but reports
'rom Toronto tonight state that this ship
a now tied up to her dock these and has
cen since September 1A
The other steeasips named Kingston
ire listed i Lloyds. 'l'hey are the 1.38
en Norwegian ship owned by the Akties
kceen ine. not known to he in the
i'ans-Atlantic trade. and a trawler et 16
ons British mwed.
5y 'the Emnsammamms Mews SBese,
Rome, Oct. 9,-4epsrta as i *'sblea.
hipa un in Wean naa..
