THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
91
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 9, 1916
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII., NO. 143
EVEN VICT
IMS
OFU
jZT j& j& & ? J& J& v JZ?
Visiting German Submarine's Homeward Course Marked By Destruction
I ? j& JZ? JZ? ?
"SHAKING DOWN" DEMOCRATIC APPOINTEES
IMPERIAL GERMAN NA1Y 5 LONE
ARM REACHED ACRDSSTHESEIl;
SAD DAY FOR BRITISH SHIPPING
BRITISH SQUADRON
WILL GET BUSY
-
BOSTON, Oct. 8. "All steps pos
sible in the circumstance are be
ing taken to deal with the situa"
tion."
This message was received by
the Associated Press tonight from
commander-in-chief of the Bri
tish North Atlantic squadron, at
Halifax, N. S. It was in reply to a
request for a statement by him.
I I
s
n
f (Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
X FAY PORT, R. I, Oct. 9. Four destroyers of the
American flotilla came into the harbor here early today
ln-iniiinu: 21(5 persons rescued from the ships sunk off
Nantucket Sunday by a German submarine. The Erics
son, the first of the destroyers to arrive, brought SI, the
Drayton (K, the Denhani Mi and the Jenkins 111. Thirty
five women and ten children are among those on the
Ericsson.
This information came by wireless in advance of the
ictual docking of the destroyers.
While the rescue ships were steaming into the bay,
word came from the radio station of a report that still an
other vessel had fallen victim to German submarine tor-
lii'ihics: iiinL-iiirr tli fofnl liiimlinv nf slims; wvpflroil in flip
, . .r , i , , nil The government affinals were plain
da V S work or the adventurous submarine, seven. 1 he iy worried over the situation, and
. ! ii i.i i a. ' i i ii 'made efforts to Ret all information
name ot the seventh vessel was not given, but the i obtainable, it was stated that the
destroyers of Rear Admiral Albert Gleaves' fleet were
searching the sea for her survivors.
With a view to offering assistance to any of the ship
wrecked people who might need it, two members of the
Board of Overseers of the Poor went to the cruiser Bir
mingham, the flagship of Rear Admiral Gleaves, to confer
with him.
Reoubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
IlNG BRANCH, N. J.. Oct. 8.
President Wilson and government of
ficials here expressed deep concern
tonight over the sinking of the four
British steamers off the American
coast by a German submarine, but
up to a late hour no official word
had been received indicating that In
ternational complications would follow.
1
ILL
If IN PHDEN1X
TIM
STORY OF THE SEA RAID
Republican A. P. Leased wire
torpedoed southeast of Nantucket,
! bound for New York. She was re-
BoSToN. Oct S.The submarine armiiorted still afloat late tuniglit. Pas-
of the imperial German navy ravaged, j senfiers and crew numtering alxnit
shipping off the eastern coast of the' 140 were picked up the destroyer
United States today. I Balch and brought to Newport The
Four British, one Dutch and one' attack was made. at 4:3i p.m.
Norwegian swamer wer sent to the; The Kingston, British freighter, tor
bottom or left crippled derelicts offWedoed and sunk southeast of Nan-
Nantucket shoals. tucket. The crew Is missing and a
Tonight the destroyer flotilla of destroyer is searching for ihem. This
inv i niiru maies Auanuc ueci was vessel is noc accountea lor in ine on ., ms negotiations
l tviiih u(i ik"""' tiini iirn 01. 111. ii mint? regis. ers, riiu may lie
th destroyed vessels and bringing Kingstonian. The attack occurred at
them into Newport. R. I. So far as.fi p.m.
known there was no loss of life, The Bloomersdijk. Dutch freighter,
though the crew of the British torpedoed rind sunk south of Nan
steamer Kingston had not been ac-1 tucket, and crew taken aboard a de
counted for. . f, rtroyer. The steamer was bound
A suomarine held op the American ' from New York for Rotterdam, hav
steamer Kansan, bound from New i ing sailed last night.
York for Genoa with steel for tho; The Christian Knudsen, Norwegian
Italian government, but later, on es- freighter, torpedoed and sunk near
tallishirg her identity, allowed tho where the Bloomersdijk went down.
American to proceed. The Kansn The crew was picked no bv destrov-
presid-nt would keep his mind open
until definite information is supplied
through official circles. The ques
tions of administration offi ials cen
tered around whether any Americans
had been lost and wether the ves
sels were warned in accordance with
international law.
With the receipt of word of the
sinking of the vessels so near the
Amerii-an coast, additional import
ance was attached to the visit here
tomorrow of Count von Bernstorff.
the German ambassador, while the
engagement of the ambassador with
the president was made to enable
him to give Mr. Wilson a personal
letter from the German emperor on
the Polish reiief question, It was tak
en for granted that the activities of
the German submarine would le dis
cussed. Count von Bernstorff will
see the president at 2 o'clock in the
afternoon.
Count von Bernstorff has carried
over subma
rlne warfare through Secretary I .an
sing and Counsellor Polk of the state
department, and it was thought like
ly tbs president would chance this
method of procedure.
came into Boston harbor Lite tonight
fo- her usual call here.
The hostile submarine is believed
to he the U-53 which paid a call to
Newport yesterday and disappeared
:'t sunset. Sfime naval men, how
ever, declared that at least two sub
marines are operpting close to the
American shore, though outside the
three-mile limit.
List of the Lost
The record of submarine warfare,
ns brought to land by wireless dis
patches, follows: The Stathden-,
British freighter, torpedoed and sunk
fff Nantucket. The crew was taken
iilnard the Nantucket shoals light
ship and Inter removed to Newiort.
bv torpe'd) boat destroyers. The
Stralhdetie left New York yesterday
f ir Bordeaux, and was attacked Jit
C n.m.
The West Point, British freighter,
torpedoed and sunk off Nantucket.
The crew abandoned the ship In
I'fnall boats after a warning shot from
the . submarine's gun. Officers and
men were taken aboard a destroyer.
T'.ie vessel was attacked at 10:45 a m.
She was bound from London for
Newport News.
The Stephano. British passenger
"w'. i'ivinr regularly between New
York, Halifax and St. Johns. N P..
New
Japan's Aim is to Protect China
ers. The vessel sailed from
York Saturday for Iyindon.
It Came as a Shock
The sensation created yesterday
when the 1 T - F 3 quietly slinped into
Newport harbor and as quietly slipped
away three hours later was nothing
to the shock in shipping circle's when
wireless reports of submarine at
tacks began to come in- to the naval
radio stations Just before noon today.
Within a few minutes the air was
literally charged with electricity as
wireless messages of warning were
broadcasted along the coast.
The submarine, or submarines, had
taken a posiiion directly in tho
steamer lanes. Vessels of the en
tente nations and neutral bottoms
carrying contraband of war scurried
to get within the three-mile limit of
the American shore. Several that
were following the outside course
shifted and made for the inside lane.
The Stephano of the Red Cross line,
however, was caught outside the
neutral zone. The destruction of this
vessel was, perhaps, the biggest prize
of the dav. The craft had been sold
to the Russian government, and
would have been used as an ice
breaker after her present trip.
(Continued on Price Two
Undersea Convoys
WASHINGTON, Oct. 8. Submarine
warfare at the very doors of the
United States Joes not necessarily
portend further complications with
German)-, so long as it Is carried on
within the limitation of international
law. That is the view ot offcial
Washington tonight on. the record of
one day's openmions In which none
of the ships destroyed appears to
have been attacked without warning
or without proper measures having
been ta'cen for the safety of those on
board.
By a change in the plans of Hon
James R. Garfield, he will arrive In
Phoenix over the Southern Pacific in
stead of the Santa Fe tomorrow morn
ing. That will give him about one hour
more time in this valley, which he will
doubtless devote to rest before start
ing. And he will need it for if he fol
lows out the program mapped out for
him by his host, Mr. Dwight B. Heard,
Tuesday will be a strenuous day for
him, as indicated by his itinerary, pub
lished elsewhere.
It will end with the big mass meet
ing at the Y. M. C. A. stadium, at 7:30
o'clock in the evening. There is little
doubt that the stadium will be filled to
capacity for Mr. Garfield is one speaker
that almost everybody in this valley
will want to hear, regardless of polit
ical prejudices or the partisan ques
tions that may be discussed, for above
all, Mr. Garfield like the people of Ar
izona, is intensely American. Whatev
er views he mav express will be his
honest convictions regarding those
things that every American places
above political prestige or party fealty,
good logical reasons that form the mo
tive of his party alignment.
No mature reader needs enlightment
as to the personality of Mr. Garfield
who has been a conspicuous figure in
national affairs for many years. To
younger readers it may be timely to
explain that he is a son of former
president James A. Garfield and In
more recent years held the office of
secretary of the interior in the cabinet
of President Roosevelt. He was one of
the latter's closest advisors and per
sonal friends then and since then ar.d
his loyal supporter In the progressive
cause of four years ago.
Though well known to all older res
idents, it is proper to call the attention
of all new comers, both old and young.
to the fact that Mr. Garfield's admin
istration of the office of secretary of
the interior occurred during the most
strenuous period of construction work
on the Salt river reclamation project,
that as the highest official in the recla
mation service as well as all other bu
reaus of that department. Mr. Garfield
it the natural order of things gave a
great deal of personal attention to this
valley, was more than once a visitor
to it and that there was much of mu
tual concern between Mr. Garfield and
the people of Arizona not only in the
reclamation service but the land of ice
and sundry other bureaus under his di
rection. He Is therefore as Intimately
Informed on Arizona matters, if not
more so. than any other man of na
tional activities.
Mr. Garfield is .an entrftaining plat
form speaker. In vigorous middle life
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TuKIO, Oct. S. It is understood
that Viscount Kato has declined to
throw his support to Lieutenant
General Count Teraucl-.i in bis effort
to form a cabinet. The conservative
party, however, is expected to take a
neutral position. Viscount Ichiro Mo
tono, Japanese ambassador to Rus
sia, has cabled his acceptance of an
offer of the foreign portfolio in the
new cabinet.
Partisans of Count Terauchi claim
that the cabinet he is forming will
urvive the diet of 1 ft 1 5 -1 7 owing to
The new party named the kyodokai,
or co-operative constitutional, has
adipted a platform pledging the
propaganda of constitutionalism, the
strengthening of the national de
fense, the development of education
and industry and the improvement of
'ocal self-government, and financial
matters.
"On the termination of the war,"
says the party's platform, "it is cer
tain that eastern Asia will be the
center of severe competition by the
world powers. Japan must be in a
position to maintain an equilibrium.
INSTRUCTIONS
TO THE
POSTMASTERS
respect for the emperor's choice and , to guarantee peace, to guide and
in the absence of a vital program protect China, and also lie able to
of legislation; I defend herself in time of need."
IT
NOT Of LOST
TN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OLD POINT COMFORT, Va. Oct. 8
Radio messages received here tonight
from the coast guard cutter Ononadaga
said that two tugs are towing the burn
ing Ward line steamer Antilla to Ham
pton Roads and that the passengers
and crew, which took to the small boats
120 miles off Cape Henry last night,
are aboard the cutter, which is convey
ing the tow.
The message also asked that another
tug be sent out to assist in fighting the
fire.
The Onondaga reached the Antilla at
8:30 o'clock this morning in resismse
to radio distress signals early last night.
The pasengers and crew in small boats
were picked up and transferred to the
cutter.
The Antilla should arrive at Cape
Henry about noon tomorrow. The ex
tent of the fire is not known here.
T N
FREED AGAIN OF
TIT RUINIS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The European war has virtually been
brought to the shores of the United
Stales. In the vicinity of Nantucket,
off the Massachusetts coast, a German
utihm'.irino tf Txivui It! r mnr. Ih'in Mint
-Sunday, sent to the bottom of the 1 V.y T'siiiR l! con'r,!bute' -'hairma"
Atlantic ocean at least four British "V
(Special to The Republican)
NEW YORK, Oct. S. Vance
McCormick, chairman of the demo
cratic national commitee, yesterday
denied the charge that the democrat-
irganization was attempting to
extort campaign funds from post
masters and other federal officials by
a ten per cent political assessment.
Today, he admits the charge but
tries to explain it. Tomorrow, he.
may have to explain his explanation
in view of further conclusive and
confirmatory evidence which has
reached the republican national com
mittee. When Mr. McCormick's attention
was directed to the charge that
the democratic campaign committee
through R.- Bonna Ridgeway. a mem
ber of the democratic -national finance
committee and chairman of the demo
cratic central committee, of Texas,
was attempting to hold up the post
masters of the country by collecting'
"contributions" of ten per cent of
their annual salaries under the threat
that a record would be kept of those
who proved "loyal by contributing.
KAISER EXPRESSES GRATIFICATION
AT PROOF DF PQPULAR CONFIDENCE
Birr officials and diplomats see a
situation filled with mo m- vwiuL'i l.ii t
ties so long as commerce in and out and a man of wide bu!i,iness as wp" a!"
of American pons Is menaced. political experience. His analysis of
ine presence of a German subma-
T1P? flotilla llar Ame-vmn lerritnriil
waters may raise a serious issue if
operations of .the. submersibles were
practically to constitute a blockade,
tarried on so near American ports a?
piactic:iy to constitute a Hockade.
At the outset of the war, when
allied cruisers hovered off New York
so clcse that commerce was impeded,
the 1'nited States, con.-truing their
operations ng practically a blockade,
notified France and Great Britain of
its objections and the ships prompt
v were moved further out to sea.
Half n dozen ships destroyed prac
tically within sight ot the shores of
the United States aroused ie ports ot
German bases and convoys. A con
jecture which was generally accepted
the most likely was that the subma
rine or submarines are accompanied
by merchant submarines of the
Deulschland and Bremen type. load
ed with torpedoes and ammunition.
.Many officials lean -to that view,
and pointed out that one lone sub
marine .s.onn miles frm a base, would
""'i-Biy navu spent torpedoes so
prodigally as did Commander Rose
the issues that now confront the Amer
ican people and his conclusions as to
the remedy for many of the threaten
ing conditions of the present day will
be illuminating to all who hear him.
THIS IS BUSY DAY
FOR THE PRESIDENT
May Save the Ship.
NEW YORK, Oct. 8 Captain J. E.
Blackadder of the Antilla reported by
wireless late today to the Ward line
officials here that he and his thirteen
year old daughter and the crew had
taken to the life boats, and that the
Ojiondaga and the Morro Castle of the
Ward line were standing by the ship.
The Antilla's commander said he be
lieved thfe was a good chance of
saving the ship.
steamers and two neutral vessels one
Dutch and the other Norwegian. The
sunken boats were the Stephano,
Strathdene, West Point and Kingston,
flying the British flag, and the Bloom
ersdijk, Dutch and Christian Knudson,
Norwegian. So far as is known there
were no fatalities. The Stephano car
ried 83 passengers, all of whom were
saved.
Probably the most important devel
opment in the European battle fronts
is the forced withdrawal of Rumanian
troops near Kronstadt, Kogaras and
Hermannstadt in the fact of superior
forces. The Austro-Germans have re
captured Kronstadt, the most important
city m Transylvania. In the Dobrudja.
region, the Russians and Rumanians
'These charges art
the most arrant nonsense, and are
absolutely untrue, thej are in line
with the campaign of misrepresenta
tions that the republicans have been
making from the start."
Today, having learned that copies
of the "shakedown" letter were in
liossession of the republicans, and
that fac similes were being furnished
to the press, Mr. McCormick revised.
practically repudiated his denial.
Today he says: "This letter wa;,
written ard mailed without the
knowledge or consent of any memlier
of the democratic campaign commit
tee, and I have just learned of its
existence. Mr. Marsh, the treas
urer of the democratic national com-
t muiee. tens me mai ne received a
Bring in Passengers
WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 The passen
gers and crew of the Ward line steamer
Antilla from Guantanamo to New York
which last night was afire 120 miles
off the Virginia Capes were being
brought into Hampton Roads on the
1'nited States coast guard cutter On
ondaga. o
GROUP OF GREEKS
PERRY'S KIDNAPERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire 1
BERLIN, (via London) Oct. 9. An
official statement Issued today gives
Ibe following message which Emperor
William has sent to Chancellor von
Bet hmann-Hull weg:
"More than ten and a half mlllards
of marks have been raised for the war
loan by all classes of the people, thus
making the totat sum placed at the dis
posal of the Fatherland In a lone term
loans about forty-seven mlllards marks.
"This result has been attained at a
time when the enemy is making his
most ferocious and strongest attacks
Muainst us. and must be considered an
expression of the unshakable confid
ence of toe nation in itself and its fu
turn. "Germany continues to work amid
the devastation of war. So long as
tooay unless there was a suimlv
close at hand Naval officials thought 4hadow I awn'
it possible that one suomarine could t,na,low J'awn-
nave done today's work unaided, but
thev leaned Imn-i-lv r. . K ,unn-..
every one fives to the empire what he that probably a flotilla or Germany's
profits from this work, the empire re- newest 1; boats is off the coast It
poses inexhaustibly on its own strength. I was regarded as significant that
Greatefully I feel my confidence , German embassy officials while dis-
strengthened that the unconquerable ! claiming Information, said they sus-
apmi oi an our people win lead us to
i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire '
LONG BRANCH, J. Oct. 8. The
president has an agreement tomorrow
to see Judge William L. Chambers,
commisioner of the federal board of
mediation and conciliation. It was un
derstood that the investigation of the
railway eight hour law by the board
named last week by the president
would be discussed.
William F. McCombs, democratic
nominee for senator from New Y'ork,
will uCke lunch with the president on
Tuesday. They will take up New York
state politics.
Mr. Wilson spent most of today
quietly at Shadow Lawn. He leaves
Wednesday for Indianapolis', where he
will make two speeches on Thursday.
"Pennsylvania Day" will be cele
brated here Saturday. Mr. Wilson will
deliver an address to a large delegation
of Pennsylvanians, who will come to
victory."
(Continued on Page Two";
Third Tour Candidate Hughes
Begun Today at Philadelphia
FLIGHT OF THE BALLONS
are advancing southward against the copy of the letter about two weeks
Teutonic allies. ago and that he wired immediately to
In Macedonia the contending sides W. Poindexter, national committee
have been engaged for the most part in man for Texas, and to H. Bonna
artillery duels. A like condition pre- I Rilgewav, that the leter should not
vails on the A,ustro-Italian front. j go out. Apparently some copies did
On ine western front in France the i get out before his telegram reached
British have captured all of the town I them."
of le bars, and also made gains north , Mr. McCormick's two conflicting
and northeast of Courcellette and south
west of Guedecourt. The Germans have
recaptured trenches that had been tak
en from them north of Les Boeufs.
DEATH OF ADMIRAL COOK
NORTHAMPTON, Mass. Oct. 8.
Rear Admiral Francis A. Cook, V. H.
navy, retired, who was commended for
"eminent and conspicuous conduct in
battle" while in command of the cruis
er Brooklyn at the battle of Santiago
de Cuba, died sudenly at his home here
tonight. Admiral Cook was born here
In 1843. He saw forty years service In
the American navy.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Oct. 8. Charles E.
Hughes, republican presidential nomi
nee, motored to this city late, today
from Montclair, N. J., where he has
been resting for several days. .
Mr. Hughes will go to Newark, N. J.,
tomorrow to make an open air address
at Military Park. He will return to
New York later to register. He will
leave New York at 6 p. m. Monday for
Philadelphia, where he will speak in
the evening.
Tomorrow marks the opening of the
candidate's third campaign tour which
and North Dakota.
Mr. Fairbanks at Church
SEATTLE, . Wash., Oct. 8. Charles
W. Fairbanks, republicart candidate for
vice president left late today for Spo
kane, where he will arrive tomorrow
morning. Mr. Fairbanks attended the
First Methodist church today. The
pastor called attention to the presence
of the former vice' president of the
United States and suggested that the
congregation sing "America," which
the minister conducted, waving an
American flag, while the members of
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
M I'SKOGEE, Okla. Oct. 8. Only
one of the six big racing baloons which
ascended yesterday remained unre
ported tonight while five had come to
earth at distances varying from 25
miles to mor.e than 400 miles from the
starting point. The "Million Popula
tion Club" of St. Louis, with Captain
John Berry in the basket, is yet to re
port. Race officials here tonight ex
pressed the belief that the balloon was
drifting over Iowa or Illinois.
Captain E. H. Honeywell of Kansas
City in the "Uncle Sam" and E. S. Cole
of Cleveland in the "White apparently
made very nearly equal records, some
thing more than 400 miles. The for
mer laiided near Cascade, Iowa, while
Cole came down near Chariton in the
same state.
. o-1 '
SEVEN MEXICAN PARTIES
TRepubllcan A. Leased Wire
STEAMBOAT SPRINGS, Colo. Oct.
8 James Karougours. a Greek, charged
with being one of two men who kid
naped R. M. Perry, manager of the
Moffat mine, is under arrest at Oak
Creek, according to a report received
here tonight and has been identified
as one of those involved. The body I
of another Greek, shot by Perry while
effecting his escape from the men who
were holding him for $15,000 ransom,
has been identified as George Kastae
granes. Four other Greeks, including
oam Dimas and William Demolias have
been released.
The coroner's inquest has not yet
been completed and officials are en
gaged in a further investigation of the
fact tjiat the body of the dead Greek
contained two bullet wounds while Per
ry claims to have fired but one shot.
Officers said they were disposed to be
lieve that the shot fired by Perry was
nof fatal and that he was kilTfcd later
by a shot through the head.
o
QUARRELED OVER MONEY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
GREELY, Colorado, Oct. 8. J. E.
Jackson, a farmer, was shot and killed
at his farm near Stoneham, 53 miles
northeast of here late todaq. Charles
Roth, a constable, telephoned the auth
orities here that Charles Bryan, a
neighbor had surrendered and admitted
that he shot Jackson. The-men are
said to have quarreled over a financial
matter.
will take him as far west as Nebraska white handkerchiefs.
An Early Decision
PETROGRAD. Oft S, tVia London,
Oct. I.) Battles of such desperate,
character are in progress along all
four of the main approaches to Lera
berg, that, according to the growing
conviction here, the next few days
must bring a decisive issue of one
sort or another. Either the Austro
Gernians forces protecting the Gali
cian capital will be foree'd to a gen
eral retreat westward of the Gnila Di
pa ard Bug rivers, making probaWe
the ultimate surrender of Lemberg,
or they will have demonstrated the
tutility of further Russian efforts to
gain their long sought obpective be
fore winter puts an end to, the pres
ent campaign.
Of the four directions along which
General Krussilotls otfcnsive is
reaching the region south of Brzezanv
is for the present the most important
sin"e a Russian advance here would
penetrate into the rear of the strong
est part of the Austro-Grman front
and cause the collapse of the pres
ent Austro-Gcrman position.
Except for the bare statement that
(Continued on Page Two)
denials brings the question of mis
representation sharply to the front
when compared with the accompany
ing letter from R. Bonna Ridgeway.
chairman of the democratic central
committee, of Fcrt AVorth, Texas, ad
dressed to the county chairman of his
state. It is peculiarly interesting that
it should be in the state or Texas,
the home state of Postmaster General
Burleson, th.it this particular attempt
to eado the law first comes to light.
Mr. Ridgeway's letter is well worth
a very careful persual, it embraces a
good many points for deliberate con
sideration. In its opening sentence,
for instance it rites the democratic
national campaign committee, of which
ance I. McCormick is chairman as
its authority for directing the cours-j
outlined by the letter. Mr. Ridgeway
informs his strong-arm squad that
the Hon. William Poindexter. demo
cratic national committeeman, from
Texas, ad been in New Y'ork but a
few days prior to the writing of this
letter, and while there had conferred
with the national campaign commit
tee. It was evidently upon the re
tvrn cf Mr, Poindexter from New
York to Fort AVorth. that he convey
ed to Mr. Ridgeway the instructions
of the democratic national campaign
committee to embark upon this course
(Continued on Page Two
COUNTRY COMBED TOR RECRUITS
AH AGENCY TO BE IN EVERY COUNTY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Oct. S. Virtually
a house-to-house campaign through
out the nation is being planned bv
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY. Oct. 8. Seven po
litical factions met tonight in mass
convention to, select fusion candidates
for the constitutional assembly. This
is the first political meeting of the
kind since the time of President Ma-dero.
Mexico Has Again Becortie
Dangerous For Americans
Republican A. P. Leased Wire plies.
PRESIDIO, Texas, Oct. 8. The de-
parture of Colonel Jose Riojas. com- Violated Neutrality ,
mander of the Ojinaga garrison for' EI. PAS'), Texas, Oct. 8. George
Kl 1'aso, after bringing his wife to IV. Holmes was indicted by the Unit
the American side of the river, led Slates grand jury late yesterday
coupled with reports of desertions of j evening on a charge of violating
soldiers from the garison to the I neutrality laws in connection with
Villista side, has caused the author- the expedition of Manuel Ochoa, a
ities here to w arn Americans against j former Villa general, who crossed
going into Mexico. These going , the river east of Juarez, and from
across the past few days say they ; whom papers were said to have been
noticed signs of unfriendliness on the taken which were addressed to Fran-
liart of Mexicans.
pany of Yillistas are said to be in
the vicinity of Ojinaga with a view
of smuggling ammunition and sup-
cisco Villa. Holmes is a cattle buyer
here and is at liberty on bond pend
ing his trial in federal court next
week.
the war department to obtain the
100,000 regular army recruits it will
be necessary to enlist hereafter in
order to keep the army up to tho
strength authorized by congress in
the reorganization and appropriation
bills. According to a new recruiting
Order adopted, made public today, "to
meet the demands for the present and
the immediate future, the recruiting
service must be capable of furnishing
an average of one recruit per thou
sand population, and this result ran
he accomplished only by canvassing
every accessible locality in the I'ni'eJ
States and establishing, through the
aid of available postmasters, a con
veniently located recruiting agency
for each small area."
The r.ew plan contemplates estab
lishing such agencies in every county
seat. From these bases recruiting
parties will 'he sent to comb the rurai
districts. Tables have been prepared
to show recrt'iting officers the exact
number of recruits who should be ob
tained ' in each county. Tho number
of men of the recruiting service to
he sent to each county will be de
termined by the population.
t
I
