7:v ?
f
THE WEATHER
Partly cloudy and colder tonight and
Tuesday.
THE DAILY TELEGRAM f
EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATED PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WIRE
THE CIRCULATION
?t the Telegram U more than i
0)0 net paid circulation of i
^ cllicr Clarkiburg p?p?r. J
ION I
ian doable I
i of the I
ESTABLISHED 1861.
CLARKSBURG, W. VA.. MONDAY. OCTOBER 9. 191(>.
PRICE TWO CENTS
ARE SUNK
THREE GERMAN
SUBS SHOOTING
German Submarine Warfare Brought to tiis American Skie of
the Atlantic Ocean is Being Pursued Relentlessly South
and Southeast of Nantucket Now.
FLOTILLA OF GERMAN SUBMARINES MAY BE GATHERED
" American Destroyers Are on the Scene So Thick That the Com
mander of One of tiie Submarines Asks Two of Them
to Make Way for Him to Blow Up His Prey.
(By Associated Press.)
BOSTON, Oct. 9.?German submarine warfare brought to
this side of the Atlantic Sunday was pursued relentlessly through
out the night. With the dawn came reports of more vessels tor
pedoed and sunk. The captain of the Nantucket lightship, off
which the attacks on passenger and freight ships were made, re
ported that three German submarines were operating south and
southeast of Nantucket and that a total of nine vessels had been
destroyed.
The identity of three of this number was unknown but ships
from the American destroyer flotilla at Newport were searching
the seas for the crews that were supposed to have taken to their
small boats.
Rushing to give battle to the submarines, three British cruis
ers were off Nantucket shoals at 4 :40 o'clock this morning. This
was the first appearance of any warships of the British and French
patrolling fleet in that vicinity since the submarines began their
attacks at 6 o'clock yesterday morning.
The passengers and crews of the Red Cross steamer Stephano,
and the crews of the British freighters Strathdene and West Point,
and the Dutch freighter, Bloomersdijk, and the Norwegian freight
steamer, Knudsen, destroyed yesterday, were landed at Newport,
R. I., today.
The crew of the British freighter Kingston was missing this
morning, but the men were reported to be in lifeboats thirty miles
southeast of Nantucket.
Early today the submarine or submarines had not been iden-!
tified but there is no doubt in the minds of naval officers that one
of the engines of destruction was the German U-53 which delivered
mail for the German ambassador, Count von Bernstorff, at New
I port Saturday. The belief is growing that the U-53 is only one
" of a flotilla of German submarines gathered for attacks on ves
sels of the Allied nations and neutral bottoms carrying contraband
of war. Their operations so far as known have been south and
southeast of Nantucket island and from three to ten miles offi
shore.
The American steamer Kansas which was held up by a sub
marine off Nantucket at 4:30 o'clock yesterday morning arrived \
here today. Its captain said he had turned back in response to
the signals of distress from the West Point, but finding that his
assistance was not required, he proceeded to Boston.
AMERICAN DESTROYERS |
WITIM'ESS DESTRUCTIONi
NEWPORT. R. I., Oct. 'J?Eye wit
nesses' stories of the torpedoing of
passcngor and freight steamers by
German -submarines off Nantucket yes
terday were told today.
According to a report brought by i
officers of a flotilla of United States;
destroyers, which picked up passen-|
gers and crews of several of the ves-,
Bels destroyed, nine ships were sunk.!
One is 17-58.
One of the submarines is supposed
to have been the U-53 which visited
this city Saturday, and another was
declared to be the U-61. Mrs. Henry
IB. Wilson, of WSlliamstown, Mass., a
passenger on the Stephano, one of the
vessels sunk, said that an officer and
several of the crew told her that they
had distinctly seen the name U-61 on
the submarine that attacked their
ship.
vSix vessels are known to have been
Bunk and the report that the total
was nine was based on a statement of
the captain of the Nantucket shoals
lightship, near which the attacks took
place. The captain said that three
submarines were engaged.
German Supply Ship.
One of the destroyer Balch's crew
said that he saw a German supply ship
attending the submarines.
The American destroyers witnessed
the destruction of some of the ves
sels. In ODe instance the American
"boats were 1.0 thick on the scene that
the German submarine commander
naked the destroyers Bcnham and
(MacDougall to make way for him to
fclow up his prey.
Story of Sinking.
The story of how ships came with
ing range of a U-boat raider so fast
off Nantucket Sunday that it had to
keep one -waiting while it disposed
of another, was told today by Arthur
Gray, wireless operator on the Nor
wegian steamer, Christine Knudsen.
"We heard the sound of firing some
time before tho submarine hove in
sight," Gray said today, "but wo had
no Idea what it all meant. By the
time we had discovered that a sub
marine was operating in our vicinity
it was too late to escape. When we
came on to the scene of action the
undersea boat was engaged with the
British ship, Stephano. While the
passengers and crews of the Stephano
were disembarking, the U-boat ran
alongside the Knudson and ordered
us to steam over nearer the Stephano.
Told to Pack Up.
"We wore told to pack up our be
longings and leave the ship, ijhich
^re at once began to do. We had
plenty of time to get off while the
submarine was disposing of the oth
er vessels. We had rowed some dis
tance away before submarine fired on
the Knudsen. It fired at least 160
shots and these not having the de
cked effect it cut loose a torpedo
which struck the vessel amidship
and it soon went down."
The cabin boy of the Bommers
dijk, a bright lad of about fourteen
years, came in on the Benham and
clattered across the decks with his
wooden shoes when called for exami
nation by the physician. He was the
least disturbed of any of the Ben
ham, for he explained this was the
third time he had had the experience
of being aboard a topedoed ship.
.Name* Are Obtained.
Hear Admiral Gleaves, command
i er of the destroyer flotilla, announced
I today that he had obtained the
I names of approximately 220 persons,
] including thirty-three women and
ten children rescued from five of the
| six steamers known to have been tor
I pedoed yesterday by a German sub
! marine. This list did not take into
account the crew of the British
steamer Kingston, which was still
missing at 10 o'clock today.
All hands had been saved, the ad
miral said, from the steamers West
Point, Strathdene. Bloomersdijk,
Christian Knudsen and Stephano.
WASHINGTON IS UNEASY
OVER THE OPERATIONS
(?r Aiaoui at to priiii
WASHINGTON, Oct. 9.?Possibilities
of diplomatic complications over the
German submarine raids along the
New England coast seemed today to
point to the Allies as well as Ger
many. _
State and navy officials, scanning the
unofficial reports of the destruction of
ships within sight of American shores
I found no reason today to change their
first impression that the submarine
operations had been conducted so far
within the limitations of International
law, but they were fully alive to the
dangerous possibilities.
Destruction of an American ship
might easily causc another Frye case,
i and any loss of life at all in any case
RED SOX SEEM CONFIDENT WHILE THEIR TITLE IS CHALLENGED
Abort, left: Agnew, Hobiitzell end
Gainer. Right, Harry Hooper and
(below) Leonard, unipa and
mascot in the dugout.
' The Boston Red Sox, world's champions, seem to be confident of retaining their title. The Brooklyn Dodger*
haven't made them very nervous yet. In the dugout, in practice before the game and between innlngijthe Red
Sox are as much at ease as though an ordinary season's game was being played.
FIVE WIN $50
Watts - Lam berd Employes Are
Rewarded for Faithful Ser
vice during the Year.
Two years ago ttie Watts-Lamberd |
Company Inaugurated a plan of re
warding the prompt and faithfuJ ser
vices of its employes. A check for |
$50 is given to each employee, who,
for the period of one year, is prompt- j
ly and continuously at work every;
day. The following employes have
Just completed a year during which
they have met the requirements of
the plan and have each received a
bonus check for $50: O. R. Sartor,'
Lydia Walls, Nina Batson, Harry H. j
Wlliamson and J. J. Lear, Jr.
Since the adoption of the plan two
years ago the Watts-Lamberd Com
pany has distributed twenty-one $50'
checks among sixteen different em
ployes. five of whom have received
the checks two years in succession.
Several other salespeople in the
store of the company are in line to
receive the $50 bonus, having com- j
plied with the conditions governing!
the plan during the greater part of
the year.
might easily reopen the whole sub
marine question.
The threatened complications with
the Allies lies in their contention
that submarines, because of their na
ture, should be excluded from all neu
tral ports. Today's London despatch
es quoting from the Marrecent mem
orandum to the effect that such a
view has been set out in the recent
memorandum sent by the Allies to
neutral governments, contained the
first intimation received here that
anything in the nature of a formal
representation had been made.
The position of the United States
as far as it has been announced has
been to decide on its merits the case
I of each submarine entering an Amer
I ican port. Inasmuch as the German
j submersible, which left Newport Sat
urday took no supplies, asked for no
privileges pnd departed almost imme
diately, it is not thought it raised any
issue.
WHOOPING COUGH FATAL.
Funeral services over the body of
Zeda Danoak. aged one year, daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Da
noak, of Mt. Clare, who died at 4
o'clock Monday morning following a
short illness of whooping cough,
were held at theOiome Monday after
noon and the burial was in the Holy
Cross cemetery here.
LARGE STEAMER
SENT TO BOTTOM
By a German Submarine but
More Than 1,000 on Board
Are Picked Up.
(?V ASSOCIATED PftRVt)
PARIS, Oct. !).?The steamBhlp Gal
lia, an auxiliary cruiser carrying 2,000
Serbian and French soldiers. ?? tor
pedoed and sunk on October 4 ? by a
submarine. Thirteen hundred men
picked up by a French cruiser and
landed In boats on the southern coast
of Sardinia have been accounted tor
thus far.
The Gallia was a 16,000 ton shin, 574
feet long and sixty-four feet beam.
It was built In the Seine In 1913 and
was owned in Bordeaux. It was one
of the largest vessels sunk by subma
rines during the war, having been only
700 tons smaller than the White Star
liner Arabic.
The Gallia's recent movements have
not been disclosed as It was In govern
ment service. Early this year Ser
bian troops were taken to Blquerta,
Tunis, which Is south of Sardinia. The
Gallia may have been on Its way from
Tunis wltK >s for the Macedonian
front
t Special Trains for
The Hughes Meeting
+
+
+ So many people sre coming to Clarkaburg WedneiNlnj iimmlnK lo
+ hear Charles K. Hughes, Itepubllcan presidential nominee, deliver a
? campaign speech that It lias become necessary to operate special
+ tralriK In order to take care of tlie traffic. Arrangements were com
+ pleteil Monday by officers of the BaJUmore and Ohio railroad and the
+ Republican state executive committee for the operation of these spec
+ ial trains as follows:
? One special will lie operated otOt the main line of the Baltimore
+ and Ohio railroad from West t'nlon to Clarksburg and return, leaving
? West l.'nlon at i a. >, and arriving at Clarksburg at HiflO a. m. lie
+ turning the train will leave Clarksburg at 11 a. m. The special will
? stop at intermediate points both ways.
+ Another special vvIII be operated over the Short Line branch of the
? Baltimore and Ohio from Pine drove to Clnrkshurg and rrlnra. leaving
?> line drove at li a. nu arritlng nt Clarksburg at 8:30 n. m. anil return
+ lug at 11 a. m. Stops will be made at Intermediate stations both ways.
+
EXCISE TAX CASE
IS BEING ARGUED
In Federal Court Here before
Three United States Cir
cuit Court Judges.
Constitutionality of the law enact
ed by the legislature of this state in
mi5. placing an excise tax on cor
porations, Is attacked in a suit before
Judge Jeter C. Pritchard. Benlor jus
tice of the United States court for thoj
Fourth circuit; Judge Charles A.
Woods, junior justice of that court;'
and Judge Edmund Waddlll, Jr.,
judge of the eastern district of Vir
ginia. Judge A. G. Ilayton, of this
state, was ineligible to sit in the case,
being a resident and taxpayer of the
Btate.
The suit was brought by the Bald
win Tool Works, of Parkeraburg, and
nc.neroug other corporations, domes
tic and foreign, against Fred O. Blue,
stato tax commissioner, and another.
Among the plaintiffs are the D. E. Mc
Nlcol Pottery Company, the West
Fork Glass Company, the Hazel-Atlas
Glass Company, the Grasselll Chemi
cal Company, and the Pearlman Com.
pany, all or Clarksburg.
The plaintiff companies contend in
their bill that the state law violates
the federal constitution in several
particulars, namely;
An attempt to regulate commerce
between the states.
An attempt to impair contracts.
An attempt to abridge equal priv
ilege and immunity among the peo
ple of the state.
An attempt to deprive the people
of life and liberty, or property with
out due process of law.
The plaintiffs are represented by
Nelson G. Hubbard and George R. E.
Gilchrist, both of Wheeling; and S.
E. Swartz and E. B. Templeman, both
of Clarksburg. The state Is repre
sented by Fred 0. Blue, state tax
commissioner, and A. A. Lilly, attor
ney general. Messrs. Gilchrist and
Lilly are not present.
The arguments were opened by Mr.
Hubbard shortly before noon Monday.
OPERATION 19 SUCCESSFUL.
Mrs. Myrtle Graves, of Seventh
street, Northvlew, who underwent a
surgical operation Sunday morning
at her home, is getting along nicely,
her many friends will be glad to
, learn.
+ ?
* THE PATH OK SECURITY. +
+ +
+ I desire to protect our pence. <?
+ The path or proper prepared- *
+ neBS and of the maintenance of ?
+ American rights Ik not the path +
+ that leads to war. It Is the path ?
+ of security. It In a weak nation *
+ that Invites Insults. Insult +
+ breeds resentment. Deprivation ?
+ of rights known to exist speed- +
+ lly awakens that feeling deep +
+ In every American heart.? +
+ CHARLES E. HUGHE8. +
+ +
AGED WOMAN IS
SERIOUSLY ILL
Mrs. Hula Crummit, One of the
Oldest Residents of the City,
is at Death's Door.
Mrs. Hulda Crummit, one of the
city's oldest resident, Is critically 111
at her home on Jackson street and
her recovery Is doubtful. Mrs.
Crummit is suffering from a general
breakdown and diseases incident to
old age. While Mrs. Crummlt's exact
age is not known, It Is thought that
she Is near the 100 mark.
Mrs. Srummit was born at Morn
ta, Va., and resided there until the
Civil war broke out, when she lost
all her property. She moved to
Clarksburg In 1861. and lived In the
East End. At that time the resi
dents of that section called her Old
Mrs. Crummit, as her hair was ti
niest white then. John'Crummit, of
Wheeling, a son, -was called here by
the serious Illness ol his mother. Is
71 years old. He fought in the Civil
war. Other relatives who aro at her
bedside are George Crummit, of Par
kersburg, a son; H. U. Crummit, of
this city, a son; Mrs. James TIchenal,
of Adamston; Mrs. Nelson Smith, of
Toronto, O., and Miss Sis Crummit,
all daughters.
R. W, Shumaker, of Buckhannon,
is here on a business znlsselon.
LARGE CR.OWD
OUT FOR. GAME
? +
? nwrHKTir words. ?
* ?
? immediately upon the ahoc.k ?
? '10 Uisltanln'n horror, whllo ?
+ all the world waited, expeotant, ?
? for the government of this ?
+ groat rountry u> make good its ?
? word* by action. we woro told ?
? and t ho world was told that ?
+ America woa "too proud to ?
+ IlKht," nnd nothing was don<<. ?
+ nnd nothing lias ever been done. +
+ No one lias boon hold to ac- ?
? countablllty. A yoar and moro +
? Inlor, r.ftor moro Hlnklnx of pas- ?
? sougpr ships and drowning of +
+ American passonKors. upon tho ?
+ president's declaration in Cbn- ?1
? cress that If such things con- ?
+ tlnucd to bo dono ho would bo ?
+ obliged to break off diplomatic +
+ relations, Gorman? suspended +
+ Its practice of aggression. It ?
? may resume It tomorrow. Its +
+ statesmen arc now discussing *
? tho resumption of It. It mrvl.i ?
? no amends for I ho past and It +
+ made no binding prom too for +
+ tho future.?KUHU ROOT, +
? *
SHIPPERS ARE
URGED TO USE
; In the Removal of Freight from
Warehouse So as to Expe
dite Local Shipping.
(By (3. W. Dndderar, Becrctnry nf|
Board of Trade.)
We have been lteoplng In dono
touch wltli conditions at the Balti
more and Ohio freight house relative
to the delay of city freight, and while
at times during the last two months
thero have been some trying delays
In connection with tho unloading of
L. C. L. merchandise, it has never
theless been apparent that tho rail
road company has been making every
possible effort lo timet the demands
made upon It and for some days past
has berin unloading curs promptly as
they come In. In connection with this
matter, however, our shippers could
give material assistance and real co
operation, to the end that we have
better service, by removing freight
from the warehouses more promptly.
Investigation today shows that tho
local freight house Is very much con
gested, considerable freight being left
for the full forty-eight hours of free
time allowed. This condition, of
course, contributes materially to the
difficulties confronting the railroad
company In prompt unloading.
Of course, there Is a real need of
additional facilities, and Vice Pres
ident Thompson, when here In July,
agreed to provide an extension o( I BO
feet to the present freighthouso, and
we had assurances from General Man
ager Davis, when here reecntly, that
this proposed extension, which Is now
decided will be 175 feet, Is being hur
ried as much as possible. In the mean
time, the board of trade would urge
upon our people the wisdom of mov
ing freight from tho warehouse as
soon as possible, after having advice
of its arrival, and thus contribute ma
terially to the unloading and hand
ling of merchandise.
I am sure It will be interesting to
our people to know that the month
of September shows the heaviest of
freight receipts In the history of the
local station and this is a pretty good
indication of the rapid increase in the
volume of trade in our community.
According to present indications
Clarksburg will be a <3,000,000 sta
tion this year exclusive of revenue
from the coal business, and this state
ment is based upon actual figures, not
upon speculation.
Let's continue to pull together for
the further development of the "In
dustrial heart of West Virginia.
For the Second Game of the
World's Series between Bos
ton and Brooklyn Teams.
WEATHER IS VERY GOOD
Scenes Today Are Described as
the Same as Those of Sat
urday on the Field.
<?* acbociatip pwtaai
BOSTON. Oct. 0?Again today th#
Brooklyn Nationals and the Boston
Americans met In the series. to de
termine I hi' world's bwobnll oham
plons of tho ynnr. The scenes were
the same as those ot Saturday,
Braves' fluid and Its spacious stadium
providing the setting for tbe title
contest. Another large crowd was
out.
The atmospheric condition! were
slightly less attractive than on Sat
urday, but the cloudy skies were
hardly threatening as the temperature
hud fallen to an uncomfortable de
gree. The probable line-up:
Boston: Brooklyn:
Hoop?r, rf. Johnston, rf.
Jnnvrln, 2b. Daubert, lb.
Shorten, sf. Myers, cf.
llnhlltzalt, lb. Wheat. If.
Lewis. If. Cutshaw, 2b.
Gardner, 3b. Mowrey, 3b.
Scott, ss. Olson, ss. -
Thomas, c. Miller, c.
Ruth, p. Coombs, p.
Tho position of the umpires wal
expected to be: Dlneen, American
League, behind the plate; Qulgley.
Notional league, on tho bases; Con
nolly, American League, right field;
O'Day. National League, left field.
Committee for Hughes Meet
ing is Called to Meet To
night at Club.
The Hughes meeting platform com
mittee Is urged by Its chairman, L.
K. Richards, to meet promptly at 7:30
o'clock thin evening In tho headquar
ters of the Hughes club on Second
street, to complete Its work for th#
Hughes speaking here Wednesday
morning. ?'.VSH
Bsldes the chairman, the commit
too consists of Guy Lyons. H. U.
Crummlt, John M. Flanlgan, John
Sopher. Dr. D. C. Louchery, B. Mer
endlno, John 0. Day, G. F. noblnson,
Georgo N. Kollman, John T. Flynn,
Thomas Jones, James A. L. Day, Fr#d
Howard, C. W. Furbee and Claud*
Ryan.
Of the Valley Hotd a Meeting at
Fairmont and Elect
Officers.
The Monongahela Valley Dental
Society held a meeting In Fairmont ?
Saturday night and elected oOcera
for the year as follows:
Dr. Fred Hess, of Fairmont, presi
dent.
Dr. C. H. Layman, of Fairmont,
vice president.
Dr. L. A. Starke, of Shlnnston, sec
retary-treasurer.
The principal speaker of the even
ing waB Dr. L. J. Walker, of Fair
mont, who gave an Interesting re
view of the national meeting recently
held at Louisville, Ky. I ftj
The next meeting of the society
will be held at Grafton, Saturday
night, December 7.
Drs. J. S. Stone and R. D. Rrnn
baugh, of this city, attended the
mont meeting.
BURIAL AT CRE8TON.
Miss Myrtle MoEldovney, aged 22
years, died at 12 o'clock, noon, Sun
day, at her home at Northview, fol
lowing a long Illness of ulcers of
stomach. The body was prepared f*
burial and taken to Creeton Monda
morning on Baltimore and Ohio p
senger train No. 3, where the fune
services and burial will fce held. 7
deceased girl was a daughter ot Mr.
and Mrs. George McEldowney.
DEATH ANGEL CLAIMS
MR.S. BENNINGHAFEN
Mother of Mrs. Charles L. Ford
Dies in Hospital Follow
ing Short Illness.
Mrs. Matilda Haynes Benninghafen,
aged 70 years, died at 2 o'clock Sun
day morning In a local hospital fol
lowing an operation for locked bowels.
Mrs. Bennlnghafen was taken 111 Fri
day and her condition grew gradually
worse until 1 o'clock Sunday morning
when she was rushed to the hospital
and the operation performed.
Funeral services were scheduled to
be held at 4:30 o'clock Monday after
noon at Christ Episcopal church, with
the Rev. Harry Lee, putor of tfee Wei
ton churoh, in charge of the services.
The funeral party will leave at 6: OS
o'clock Monday evening for Hamilton.
0.. where the burial will be held.
Mrs. Bennlnghafen had lived In this
city for the last eighteen years. Sho
made her home with her daughter.
Mrs. Charles L. Ford, at her home at
Montlcello addition. Surviving rela
tive* of the deceased woman are Mrs.
Charles I* Ford and Mite Tillie Ben
nlnghafen. daughters; Mrs. Robert
Stutler, a granddaughter; Mrs. Georgi
Hull, of Oleveland, O., a sister, and
Albert Haynes, of Newport, Kt? a
brother. Mrs. Robert Stutlar, who was
In Lexlnnton. Va., when her
mother dted. arrived home
.morning.
