DAILY EVENi'iG EDITION
'in i i:i:nsi:its
Th Kiwi 'in;lti has tin III!"!'! i.MiKi
1 fide nml yiiaiatii.'.'l p.ilit rirritlfttlnn uf any
i8mt In i ti i'nn. I'tmt of run hunl Hriu bv
fur ttii- lnrf.'1'f-.t rljxuliiHon in IVndM"!) of
ny iifvnjt;i;'r
CITY OFFICIAL PAPER
;! DAILY EVENING EDITION
l in i:
Fair tonight and T' In, warmer j
tonight.
I 1 1 i;d us I. i in i; i r
Maximum t iirf ; M.m
roi.m, J."., r-i i ri It o. wo..t, u,- iit;iit
weather, lear
COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPER
VOL. 28
DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1916
Hi - OA
IK IE
OSTON
WINS
NEW U-BOAT WAR ROUSES CAPITAL
ii f ie
.
NO. 8935
0
Most Closely Contested Game in World Series History Won by
Boston in 14th Inning; Gainor as Pinch Hitter Made Two
Bagger Bringing in McNally, Running for Hoblitzell; Smith
and "Baby" Ruth Waged Great Pitching Battle With the
Honors Almost Even; Brooklyn Made Six Hits; Boston Seven
i
1 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Total1
BROOMS lOOOOOOOOOOOOO I
BOSTON
1
lOOOOOOOOOOOOO
00 I 0000000000 I
BATTERIES
P ? A v,' " ,
'CEJtMAIT SLTB3AJ2JtKEiDIVIIG'.;
- ' '
f ! V
' ' . ' y
- -- -t , ' . . I
Kl
!1
ALL 1 PROVISIONS
IDE BY mill LAI1
ROSTON, IH Til AND THOMAS; IJIUXJKI.VN, SMITH AM) Mll.1,1 It
ON HAM, QVI-
osii'ii:
i.tnr-, ixu i
Jy ltl.il1M TIIK I'liAir, DIMCON;
I, IM S, 0'lAY ANI fJON.N'ol.LY.
WASHINGTON, o,., . Tin- retru
lariiv with which re orts cf suhinu-
'teach the stMtf (h-piirtnuMit iiKaiii hns j ,lulke 11 certain that the plds
urouypd ffiirs fcir the relatintis t the which anxwpred Mr. Wilw.n's last ul-
I The di-urtini.m has tht- affidavits
' of survivors of the KWviiiiu. which
i.i"nlU'd S'tntos and fJcrnianx,
tiiiiatum have been violated.
BOSTON, Oct. 9. With the Hon- c Gardner to Ruth; on Smith's Infield
tun Jl. n Sox and Ihc Unmklyn l'udt!-1 r .i. Miller took thira, Pmlth went to)
or deadlocked ufter thirteen InninKs wcond on play; Johnson out, liutti
of playing a pinch hitter, Gainor for to llohliiacll. No ruim, 2 hitu, no er
lioi ion, hrol-.e tip tin- same and netted j rore. j
another victoiv for l oHion liv hattinn l!o-(un Thoma out. Danhert to
(ffK fro SlotyKE.1
Hesides the Kelvinla Incident, which
has been before the state department
for two weeks, there are a score of
(ther cases under creator or less suspicion.
out a two b.iicer in time of need, tint
nor brought Mc.Vully home from sec
ond, thus cndini; the puiiif, Hostnn 2,
Urocklyn 1. In the ninth Inning tht
lied Sox would have won had not
been for a perfect pe(t to the plate
by Center Fielder Myers of tile lod
n, completing a. double play.
Hrxi innlna.
Brooklyn Johnson filed to Walk
Hnrlh; Ituth filed to Wheat; Hooper
filed to Johnston. No runs, no hits,
no errora.
Mulji Iniiins-
Brooklyn buubert out, Gardner
to llolilltaell. Myers filed to Walker;
Wheat out, Hoblitze: to Hulh. No
j runs, no hits, no errors. '
i Boston Janvrin lined to Wheat,
wilo dropped it; Janvrin went to sec-
HALF SECTION
BRINGS $40,000
PENDLETON DEFEATS MILTON
IN FOOTBALL; SCORE 26 TO 6
'Inrdner; Myers und; Walker taken
Wheat filed to
Duuliert fouled to
knocked a homer;
Hom er. 1 run, 1 hit, no errors.
Boston Hooper nut. Smith to Puu
iiert; Janwin fled to Myers; Walker rcy's error
No runs, no hits
out and Walsh
batted in his place; after one ball
pk.hed Walsh bunted In front ol
plate; Janvrin aie at third on Mow-
llol'lil.cll filed to Myers,
foule.l to Dnuliert. No runs, no hits. Janvrin doubled at plate. Myers to
no errors. Miller; Walnh took second, lyewis wa
KctiMid I it ii 1 Mir. purposely walked; (ianluer fouled to
Brooklyn Cutshaw out, Ruth to Miller. No nins, one hit, one error.
I'.ardner , to Hohll'ze.l; Uulh knocked ivnth lnniiie.
down the line and Gardner fielded It: Brooklyn Walsh playing center
Mown v I'ned to Janvrin; Olson fan- for Boston; Cutshaw out, Janvrin to
ned. No runs, no h:i. no error". ; llohliuoil; Mowrcy out, (iardner to
Bo. tec - IloMit.e!-. nil, Olson to Seed to llohhtzel; OI. on walked;
liaubert- Lew s sliutk'.!; a lialk was Miller lined to Gardner. No ruua.
.ailed on Smith trying to catch hcwla
at fir t; Gardner forced Lewis. Olson
to Culthuw; Gardner out. Miller to
Hauler!. No runs. 1 hit, no errors.
Third limiiiR.
Brooklyn Miller out, Scott to 1Mb
lltzeil; Smith doubled to rlKht and was
not at third. Hooper to Walker, to
no hits, no errors.
Bo-ton Scott singled, Thomas
sacrificed. Cutshaw to lJaubert
fanned; Hooper hit Infield;
thrown out at third; Mowrcy to Ol
fun. No runs, 2 hits, no errors.
h uu Indlcivlioii of the rise in
farm land value In Mils i-oooir
(Iniiiur the pnxt flr yenrs Is the
sale of a half wcilon of wheat
laud near Adams today for $10.
immi. The land wax sold bv 1). II.
Nelson of this city to Art tirovcr
of llcllv for SI2." an ai re, anil Hits
s,tme land Mr. Nelson Imujrht
five ears ami last January for
2!.SIMI or S;".rl an am. Tin
land lie nlsHil four miles from
Adams and is as good as any
wheal land In I lib counly.
The Bendleton jiislv school football
t sou ''Saturday Journeyed to Milton
and defeated the team of that city by
the score of 2C to 6. The only time
the Milton team was able to score was
in the first few minutes of jMuy when
the Milton riKht end intercepted a
forward pass on Milton's 40 yard line
and raced through a clear field to a
touchdown
CLUB CAMPAIGN IS
MEETING SUCCESS
The city-wide campaign for new
members of the Commercial associa
tion, due to reach its ctlmax Friday,
Outside of this run the wil lwithout doubt, be the livest such
AUTO SHOW IS
TALKED HERE
Milton squad was only able to make I campaign ever held in Pendleton, and
yardage on two occasions. They sev- predictions are being freely made
eral times attempted forward passes that It will net the association 200 new
only to have them intercepted by th member.
l'Vnriletnn team
The local team although showing a
lack of condition was able to make
yardage almost at will. The score
would have probably been much larg
er b it for the fumbling by the TeniHe-
Though the actual signing up of new
numbers cannot be done until Friday
the five ten-man committees are busi
ly engaged in pledging the prospective.?
and the city is being so thoroughly
canvassed that there will be small
Scott- Johnson singled; jonnson o"i iioomzel
i.nl 't s. Thomas to Janvrin. No Hoblitzel
runs 2 hits, no errors. ' no hits, no errors.
Huston Scott tripled; Thomas out, Boston Janvrin popped to Lau
CuUhnw to nuubort; Kuth out same hcrt; Walsh fouled to Daubert; Hob
wily; Scott scored; Hooper safe on inzell walked; Lewis out, Mowrey to
Cutshaw'a error; janvrin forced raubert. No runs, no hits, no errors.
Hooper, Olson to Cutahaw. One run, Teift lnnliui.
one hit, one error. Brooklyn Myers fanned; Wheat
Kviu-ih Inning. I popped to Gardner; Cutshaw out,
Brooklyn lJaubert walked; Myers Scwll l0 Holditell. No runs, no hits
r.lt into doubl play, Scott to Janvrin. no errors.
Hobiloell.
lulling. ' i,.. ...
ti ....... .,...,.. hiiiollciititieil IbroiiL'h the lack of ft : o.o K
muoniyii miuiii uui vjaiuner i' 11
i, ,im . on ,,nt iiin.iiiep in , suitable place for such a show, .vow,
Daubert tanned. No runs,
to
No runs, no hlW no cr Scott walked; Thomas forced Scott,
me on the Milton 1 vard line at the
An automobile ihow for Pendleton j rh' of the game.
onetime during the winter is a pro- Ti"- entire Pendleton souad show-
Kuth!jectnow being discussed. Automobile ; p" 11 o well in individual playing and
Scott shows have been held in many cities j should later In the season form a
over the northwest during the past j " en oaianc.-o team, nait-oaci; nnirn
lew years and have proved very pop-, T'wman was the principle ground
ular Pendleton, however, has been : gainer for the local squad while half-
Huff did the most consistent
I work for Milton.
however, it is proposed to hold one in
the Happy Canyon pavilion.
D. F. Trombley, proprietor of the
Oregon Motor Garnge, is one who is
very' interested in the projected show
and hethinks all of the dealers in the
city could be enlisted und a very fine
display of automobiles be made.
It is suggested that the show be
held sometime in January In orde!
not to conflict with any other enter
tainment. If It proves a success the
plan Is to make it an annual affair.
ton team, as it was the ball was rest-1 chance of any man being over-
lookf d
Several of the committees have hern
mal ing pledges for a week and al
most even- prospective has been ap-
I Proached from one to a dozen times
1 The campaign will end in a big ban-
cttet Friday night with the winninp
team as guests of honor.
rors.
Olson to Cutshaw; Ruth out, Smith to
Lost on--Walker out, Smith to I " Daubert. No runs, no hits, no errors.
betl, hobliuell walkeo; lewi an m, TlUrtcciitli Inning,
to double, Mowrcy to Cutshaw, to Brooklyn Mowrey safe on first on
Daubert No runs, no hits, no error. Gardner's error; Olson sacrificed,
Fifth lotting. i Ruth to Hoblitzel; Miller popped to
Brooklyn Cutshaw fanned; Mow- Thomas; Smith filed to Lewis. No
rey ont, Janvrin to Hoblltielt; Olaon runBi no nita, 1 error,
singled; Miller filed to Hooper, No Boston Hooper out, Smith to Dau
runs, one hit no errors. I bert; Janvrin fouled to Mowrey;
Boston Gardner out, Cutshaw to Walsh fouled to Mowrey. No runs,
Daubert; Scott out, Mowrey to Dau- no hP.B no errors,
bert- Thomas doubled to loft and on: Fourteenth Inning.
Olson's interference Umpire Qulgleyj Brooklyn Johnson out, Scott to
ordered him to continue to third; Hoblitzel; Daubert riled to Walsh;
Kuth fanned. No runs, 1 hit, no er-, Myers out, Scott to Hoblitzell. No
runs, no hits, no errors.
Boston Hoblitzell walked, Lewis
sacrificed. Smith to Cutshaw, Qalnor
(Continued on Pago 6.)
rors.
Sixth Inning.
lironklvn Smith out. Scott to Hob.
Iltzell. Johnson walked; Johnson out, batting for (iardner, McNally running
Healing, Thomas to Janvrin; Daubert for Hoblltzol, Gainor singled, scoring
out; Gardner to Hoblitzell. No runs, McNally.
no hits, no errors. Totals.
Boston Hooper filed to Myers, Boston 3 7 1
Janvrin filed to Myers; Walker out, iirooklyn a
Cutshaw to Daubert. No runs, no
bits, no errors.
Seventh Inning.
Brooklyn Myers out, Janvrin to
Hoblitzell; Wheat out, Janvrin to
Hoblitzell; Cutshaw filed to Hoblit
zell. No runs, no hits, no errors.
Host, in Hoblitzell walked; Lewis
sacrificed:, Smith to Daubert; Gard
ner popped to Olson; Scott lined to
.Mowrey, who touched out Hoblitzell
iin line.' No runs, no hits, no errors-
Eighth Inning. I'AP.IS, (. 9 II Is announce"
Brooklyn Mowrey singled; Olson ti1(l transport t.allin, ciirrj'ns; two
sacrificed Thomas to Hoblitzell; Mil- thottsntid troosj was torpedoed. The
ler singled- Miller took second on munitions cargo exploded. Thirteen the Perl llllon room.
T CARRYING
2000 TROOPS SUNK
PRISON BREAK AT
SALEM IS FOILED
SALEM, Ore., Oct. 9. Wlllurd H.
Tanner of Portland, serving a term for
manslaughter in the state prison, who
disappeared on the afternoon of Fri
day, September 29, was discovered in
the penitentiary about G a. m. Sunday,
following a series of sensational
events. He had been hiding in the
room of Hazel Erwln, his partner In
crime, for nine days.
Karly Sunday, Tanner und Hazel
F.rwln bound and gagged Noonie Wil
liams, colored, committed from Mult
nomah county for killing another col
ored woman, who occupied a room
adjoining that of Miss Erwln in the
woman's section of the prison. Then
Miss Erwln asked Carrie Kersch, serv
ing time for murder committed In
Portland, to come to Miss Erwln'
room, saying that the colored woman
was ill. When Mrs. Kersch entered
the room. Tanner, who was hldlnA
behind the door, grasped her by the
throat and attempted to choke her.
Mrs. Kersch fought back, freed her
self and ran down the corridor to n
window facing the resldenct of War
den Mlnlo. She screamed to Mlntn
to' come quickly, telling hint Tanner
was In the house.
Tanner was found on a bookcase in
Both he mid the
throwing Mowrey out, whs mri uorn niimimi miniiuni wwu
between third and home, Scott to Sordini.
landed
M, Erwln girl refused to make any state
I ments as to the attempted escape.
Indians Are Married.
With Rev. J. M. Cornellson per
forming the ceremony. Harry Wah
sise. an Indian from Taklma who has
been at the Umatilla reservation
school, and Susie Koplots. who has ; the John Dav region.
heen at the Tutullla
married this morning.
mission,
Bagged a Itig Buck.
Earl Sawyer has returned from a
bunting trip in the John Dav country
during which he bagged a 265 pound
buck. He wiis hunting with Emmett
Graham in the Texas Basin district in
The head of the
were ueer killed by Mr. Sawyer is on exhi
I bit In the Ia Dow store.
TODAY IS FIRE PREVENTION
THROUGHOUT UNITED STATES
Today Is Fire Prevention Day all
over the United States.
Its function is to Impress upon a
negligent public the Importance of
taking proper precautions against
fire.
Here in Pendleton Fire Chief Rln-
States now averages more than $230,
000,000 a year. In 1915 it showed a
slight drop, but there Is no reason to
believe that thb is more than tempo
rary', for the losses thus far in 1915
indicate that they will be far greater
when the year is completed.
.suppose a tire started in your
Survivors of Torpedoed Ships Which Included Vessels of
Britian, Holland and Norway are Brought Into Newport by
American Destroyers-Passengers Given Ample Opportunity
to Take to Small Boats-Raid off Nantucket Light,
SEVERAL SUBMARINES ARE BELIEVED TO HAVE TAKEN PART
ASBURY PARK, Oct. 9. Secretary Daniels informed
President Wilson that the German submarine operating off
Nantucket obeyed all provisions of international law before
torpedoing the nine steamers.
Daniels makes his formal report later. Wilson refused to
make a statement until he hears all the details. The president
meets Bernstorff this afternoon. The conference is for the pur
pose of discussing Polish relief. Officials manifested the deep
est anxiety for the submarines' acts.
SURVIVORS ARRIVE AT NEWPORT
NEWPORT, Oct. 9. Four American destroyers carrying
two hundred and sixteen survivors of the torpedoed vessels
have arrived here. The Ericsson carried eighty one, the Dray
ton sixty eight, the Benham thirty six and the Jensen thirty one.
Fourteen babies were among the survivors. Thev were
found drifting in open boats near where the Stephano sank.
They were afloat eight hours. Many children were also res
cued. The survivors were calm.
Thousands crowded the wharves. Mrs. Elsie Vanderbilt sent
her limousine for the victims. Fourteen mothers, with babies
in arms, stood weeping on the forward deck of the destroyer
Encsson. They had lost everything except their clothes.
Seventeen destroyers are still hunting possible survivors.
The Ericsson's sailors said many babies were sleeping peace
fully when they were saved. They lay quiet in their mothers'
arms. Moonlight dimly illuminated the scene with half a dozen
lifeboats bobbing over the smooth sea.
The Stephano's passengers entered the lifeboats at six thirty
Sunday evening and drifted until two thirtv this morning.
PASSENGERS ARE UNAFRAID
The passengers declared themselves unable to believe that a
submarine was really alongside until the captain ordered all
hands into lifeboats. Then they saw the submarine nearby.
They quietly donned their lifebelts, entered the boats and
marched proudly ashore here.
Most of the survivors are hardy Canadian stock.
W eren't you afraid?" was asked. They shrugged their
shoulders and replied emphatically "No."
One blond baby wore a sailor's cap rakishly over the eye.
The Stephanos passengers and crew had their first meal in
fourteen hours at the naval hospital here
A United Press correspondent was the only newspaperman
permitted aboard the Ericsson. The youngest passenger was
nrnwn o-o,l Vt r.;li j en. t i . - " "
' " iiot-uu 01 ci. jonns. aged tour months
WOMAN TELLS STORY
u "Elizabeth Butler of St Johns said: "I lost everything.
My God. it was awful. I had just started to supper when I
heard a shot and heard the captain yell to everybodv to get out
their life preservers. Officers urged the utmost 'haste. No
time was given to get belongings. I lost a hundred and fifty
dollars, all the money I have saved."
tain Smith said. "I left New Ynrlc
(FRKD S. l'F.RGVSOX.)
BOSTON. Oct. . The Trans-At-
at ten o'clock Saturday morning; and
arrived ten miles off the Nantucket
1 .. , I , cfAAmcKI 1 .. .. 1.. 1.. . 1. I . .
n,WIL-IIIU Ill tlH- Knil --.-...wvot
of the Kniser's submarines. Allied I "ghtship at four thirty five Sunday
morning. I heard a shot fired across
the bow and immedately ordered the
engines stopped. A second shot was
fired before we stopped. We then
first
gold Is appealing to citizens to clean 'home tonight while you were asieep.
up their premises, to look to their what means have you at hand to put
furnaces, ashes receptacles, and to the fire out? Suppose a fire starteJ
take the slmpletst measures to reduce this minute in your home while you
the fire risk. are away. How would It be extln-
"We go on serenely from year tOjgukhed wlhout the help of the city
year burning up our property with- fro department? Is there an extin
out taking the slightest thought, ap- j guisher in your house? Is there even
parently, of what we are doing." said'a fjre pili or a bucket of sand? In
the chief today. "We erect costly ; ninety-nine cases out of every hun
structures and then sit down and wait dred It Is safe to Wager that there U
for them to burn because we neglect not.
the first principle or fire prevention ! "Even negative precautions are not
"Gasoline, which Is more deadly taken. People permit rubbish to ac
thun dynamite, we handle us If It was cumulate in piles in their attics, in
so much water. We leave matches closets, In their cellar,
around for children to play with. We "A pile of papers under the stairs
hang our lace curtains close to the ,r in the closet is a first class firo
gas Jet and then yeuve the window risk. Three places usually are dark,
open when we go to bed so that the and when they are visited a match or
wind can blow the lace curtain Into candle is required. Carelessness fre
the flame. quently results In the match being
"Statistics for the year 1915 show dropped or the candle being left be
better than words the reckless way In hind when the visitor departs. If It
which the American people handle Is a closet, the door is shut and soon
their proporty. there Is a bright little fire burning
There were in 1915 no le--s than 3,- thero.
152 Individual fires, which In each in. "One of these days we will wake up
stance caused an estimated property, to tno fact that fire loss is u needless
damage of more than 110,000. I waste. The people of Europe have
"The total fire loss for the t'nlted long ago discovered it "
w-arshins are sorr,n mi In - t ho
German submarine zone, the crackl
ing wireless of three British cruisers
being heard.
Hcfioru. at Nantucket. Newport i sighted the submarine for the
and Boston indicate that several sub. ; time.
marines are causing a reign of terror. ..-,, . . .,
Shipwrecked seamen declared that nf,,! Ln.V i "WSy' H'r
numeron, r-bonu. are opcra.lmr a, the 1 Z 'L T, 1d,,mandpJ
American's -y door. Survivors I with n,n ' ""V""
brought stories bllnS the I,l,. row' d ,m 1,,' T MfNa"
..la and Titanic. Shipping Hrele he. ' our naneri ul,mrlB? Panted
Hove that Germany ha carefully laid TrMyzll ""
pfani for the Interception of munltl. ! ,11, ,m " '"u P"m"'
on shipments and eluding allied pa-ly. P""1 aft"r an hour
trol and suhmcrsablcs ha rstahlLsltcd ;
a blockade. lle submarine had stiddenlv div-
Tho Kaiser's monster,. ItirkW off htdTvLnn. TJi " h""
Xamncket Ugh,, in the dire,, path of ! r ..f r"f PPar'l tnr" r'lv"
all AUanttc liners, can strike an, j wt p','"!?" from h'
ship. The American liner T-htladel. TttMl, ? w
Phla and the Se,,di,..,1.. American TnTs ' rU t i b T"
liner Frederlcl, the Flghth. carrying i,oa"'lf. rt .hf " '" '!"
Ambassador Gerard, are In the danger , U:irn" ,h ,l Am"
zonotodav. I,est re.nort. Indicated ; rh(in)re(, courS(, " , "
that no lives were lost, except ponsl. ! B0nn ..
Nv the crew of the British steamer
Klii'i,on. No word has been reoelv. '
ed from them. I KINGSTON" CItKW I,f)ST
The whole Atlantic coast Is panic WASHINGTON. Oct. 9- Admiral
stricken, shins a few hours out hnr-! Knight informed the navv depart
rlcdlv trncd around and raoed for m'nt that American destroyers falld
IHirt again. Others delayed sailings t" locate the crew of the British
j freighter Kingston, snhniarln,! off
SI BMAUINE HAI.TKD KXNSVS ; Nantucket.
BOSTON, Oct. 9. An officer of th
Hawallan-AHierlcan liner Kansas de- ! SM l.l, STRICT l'Vl(
scribed his submarine experience. He j NKW Yi iISK. Oct. 9. Subrnarlne
viewed a photograph of the submarine actlvltt.. caused a small W ill siret
r-:3 and declared that was not the! panic. Prices fimtd-d before un nva.
vessel which halted the Kansas. There lauche of selling rdrs. Thousands
is conclusive proof that several sub of ,m specul ,fors aeeoant,, wrr
marines operated off th New Hug. wlp.-d out. I'nited Stale, Hieel r 1 1
land coast. p0ni,. other war stocks broke thre
Officers said the submarine cap- to 1 p..lnts. S .me of the stocks re
tain did not board the Kansas. Cap- covered later
11
i .
