BARRE -DAI LY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 175.
JIARRE, VERMONT, MONDAY, OCTOBER 0, 1916.
PJUCE, ONE CENT.
THE
BRITISH CRUISERS RUSH TO
GIVE BATTLE TO GERMAN SUB
MARINES OFF NEW ENGLAND
HUGHES NOT OPPOSED
TO S-HOUR WORKDAY
Nine Passenger and Freight Steamers
Are Believed To Have Been Sunk
Already, Of Which Six Have Been
Identified and Their Passengers and
Crews Were Rescued
THREE SUBMARINES HAVE
BEEN NOTICED AT WORK
In All Cases Warning Was Given And
Passengers And Crews Were Placed
In Small Boats From Which They
Were Rescued By United States Destroyers
Boston, Oct. 9. Rushing to give battle to the submarines, which
have been attacking passenger and freight ships, three British
cruisers were off Nantucket shoals early to-day. This was the
first appearance of any warships since the attacks began. The
belief is growing that the U-53 is only one of a flotilla of German
submarines, gathered for attack on vessels carrying contraband of
var. Shipping at ports along the New England coast was held up
to a great extent. Shippers of munitions to the allies speculated
uneasily as to the length of the stay of the submarines in the cen
ter of the trade route.
Speculation touched upon the rumor that the U-boats were made
in America and that the parts were assembled at a secret base on
this side of the Atlantic and launched. The rumor broadened to
include reports that stores of petrol and other supplies were spir
ited out of American ports and deposited in marine' coaches.
The American steamer Kansan arrived here to-day. Her captain
was unable to determine the identity of the undersea boat which
held him up, but he thought it resembled the photographs of the
U-53.
RUMANIANS LOSE;
BRITISH TAKE 7,E SARS
The forced withdrawal of the
Rumanian troops in the region of
Kronstadt, Fogaras and Hermann
stadt in the face of superior
forces, mainly made up of Ger
mans, was' the most important de
velopment of t lie war yesterday.
In the operation the Austro Ger
mans again recaptured Kronstadt,
the most important commercial
city in Transylvania,
In the Dobrudja region of Ru
mania, the Russians and Ruma
nians are advancing southward
against the Teutonic allies, accord
ing to Bucharest.
In Macedonia the contending
nidea have been engaged for the
most part in artillery duels, A
like condition prevails on the Am-tro-Italinn
front.
On the western front in France
the British have captured all of
the town of I.e Sara and also made
gains north and northeast of four
celette and southwest of Guede
court. The Germans have recap
tured from the British portions of
trenches that had been taken from
them in the region north of'Les-Uoeufa.
so long as commerce in and out of Amer
ican ports is menaced.
The presence of a German submarine
flotilla near American territorial waters,
officials fear, may raise perplexing ques
tions of neutrality and in fact a most
serious issue would be raised if the op
erations of the submersibles were carried
on so near American ports as virtually
to constitute a blockade.
NAVY DEPARTMENT WILL
PATROL ATLANTIC COAST
Washington, D. C, Oct. 9. The navy department began prepa
rations to-day to establish a patrol of warships along the coast to
make certain that American neutrality was not violated by German
submarine raids.
, Possibilities of diplomatic complications over the submarine
raids point towards the allies, as well as Germany. A loss of Amer
ican lives might reopen the issue with Germany. The threatened
complication with the allies lies in their contention that subma
rines should be excluded from all neutral ports.
Newport, R. I., Oct. 9. Eve witness
utories of the torpedoing of passenger
and freight steamers by German subma
rines off Nantucket yesterday were told
here fo-day. According to the report
brought by the officers of the flotilla of
United States destroyers, which picked
up the passengers and crews of the sev
eral vessels destroyed, nine merchant
ships were sujik. The captain of the
Nantucket lightship, off which the at
tacks were made, reported that three
German submarines were operating south
of Nantucket.
One of the submarines was supposed to
bare- been the IT-53 which visited this
harbor Sunday and another was declared
to be the U-6i. Mrs. Henry B. Wilson of
Williamstown, Mass., a passenger on the
Stephano, one of the vessels sunk, said
that an officer and several of the crew
told her they had distinctly seen the
name U-61 on the submarine that at
tacked their ship.
The six vessels known to have been
punk are the British vessels West Point,
Strathcdene, Kingston and Stephano, the
Butch steamer Bloomersdijk and the
Norwegian tanker Christian Knudsen.
The crews of all, with the exception of
the Kingston's, were brought here to
day, together with the 83 passengers of
the Stephano. They were cared for by
the officers of the naval station and
prominent members of the Newport sum
mer colony.
It was believed that no lives were lost.
Although the. men of the freighter King
ston were reported adrift at sea in open
boats, the fact that the weather was mild
nnd the sea calm made it seem probable
that they would be rescued. Of the pas
sengers of the Stephano, 30 were Amer
ican tourists returning from Newfound
land and the Canadian, maritime prov
inces. They lot all their effects.
Commander Miller of the American de
stroyer Ericsson, which picked up some
of the boats from the Stephano, said that
no attack was made by a submarine un
til after all aboard had left the ship.
When the Ericsson, responding to a rail
from the West Point, arrived at the
Nantucket lightship Commander Miller
observed a submarine a mile away and
heard three shots. None of the shots
struck the Stephano. which immediately
SUBMARINES POSTED
IN STEAMER LANES
Steamer West Point Gave First Alarm
and Within Short Time Wireless
Messages Were Flying Up
and Down the Coast.
standing a short distance away, having
oeen warned by the submarine that her
turn was next. E. A. Touch of Ontario,
another passenger, said the submarine
slipped in between the Ericsson and the
Stephano at ope time and was only 25
yards from the destrover. ("apt. Fred S.
Riley of N ew York, another passenger,
said: the passengers were unusually
calm and the women and children con
ducted themselves splendidly.. The men
assisted the children and women down
the rope ladders."
After the crews left the Bloomersdijk
and the Knudsen, the commander of one
of the submarines, plainly seen in the ;
moonlight, requested the commanders of I
the I'nited States destroyers Benham
and McDougall to please give them room
to blow up the ships, according to the
officers of the Benham. A member of the
destroyer Balch's crew insisted he aw a
Gorman supply ship attending the submarines.
MAY BE COMPLI
CATIONS WITH
UNITED STATES
As Yet President Wilson is Without In
formation Concerning Submarine
Attack Nothing at Present
Reveals Neutrality
Violation.
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 9. President
Wilson is without information, irivinir
ground for fears that international com
plications might follow the German sub
marine attacks.
Washington, D. C, Oct. 9. Submarine
warfare at the very door of the I'nitfd
States does not necessarily portend fur
ther complications with Germany, so
long as it it carried on within the lim
itations of international law.
That is the view of official Washing
ton on the record of one day's operations,
in which none of the ships destroyed ap
pears to have been attacked without
warning, or without proper measures for
safety of those aboard.
Academically- at least, in internation
al law an allied ship destroyed by a
Boston, Oct. 9. -The submarine or sub
marines of the German navy which have
been ravaging shipping along the New
England coast had taken a position di
rectly in the steamer lanes, where they
could hardly miss anything bound in for
New York or bound east from that port.
Vessels of the allied nations and neu-
tral bottoms carrying contraband of war
scurried to get within the three-mile
limit of the American shore. Several
which were following the outside course
shifted and made for the inside lane,
The Stephano of the Red Cross line
however, was caught outside tha neutral
zone. The destruction of this vessel was
perhaps the biggest prize of the day
The craft had been sold to the Russian
government and would have been used. as
an ice-breaker after her present trip
Late reports gave further details of
the attacks. The Stephano met the subl
marine six miles southeast of Nantucket
lightship and was attacked by gun fire
and a torpedo. She remained afloat un
til 10:05 o'clock last night. The West
Point went down 10 miles south of the
Nantucket lightship. The Strathdene
was attacked ''oft the lightship," the re
port stated, and the Bloomersdijk was
sunk three miles south of the lightship
She remained afloat sometime, going
down at 8:05.
The American steamer Kansan was
held up three miles east of Nantucket
lightship.
The first wireless warning of the ores
ence of a hostile submarine in the steam
ship lane was given in the distress sip
nals of the West Point, which reported
that she had been torpedoed 30 miles
southeast of Nantucket lightship. This
message apparently was picked up by
every vessel having a wireless equipment
within range, for within a very short
time press despatches from St. John, N.
B., and Halifax. N. K., indicated that the
patroling battleships had received alarm.
The British censorship, however, prevent
ed the disclosure of the movements of
the patroling fleet.
Meantime ship owners in Boston were
communicating with their vessels at sea.
It is supposed that any information re
garding the submarine activities that
reached the battleships came from other
vessels rather than from shore, though
it might have come from Halifax, where
the news was received over land lines.
A thing that is puzzling naval men
to-day is why the U-5.1 came into port
yesterday and a thing that is the subject
of speculation of many outside the navy
is that 17 vessels were sent out to res
cue the crew of a single freight steamer.
The destroyers were ordered out at the
"first report that the West Point had been
torpedoed. The theory advanced was
that Commander Hans Rose of the U-53
came to Newport to advise Admiral
Knight that he was about to attack hos
tile shipping and contraband carrying
Declares Adamson Bill Does Not Regu
late That But Simply Is a Wage
Bill Regulating the Pay.
Newark, N. J., Oct. ft. The following
is the aitilress which Charles K. Hughes
the Republican candidate for president,
delivered at a public open air meeting
here to-dav:
I am not opposed to the principle of
an eight-hour workday. On the contrary,
1 favor it. The general principle of the
eight-hour workday is that limiting la
bor to eight hours promotes health, hap
piness and ellicicncv. It not onlv frees
from excessive strain, but gives npportil
ii it .V for education, for enjoyment, for the
pleasant and profitable resources of leis
ure. The whole point is the limitation
of hours of labor, that a man shall work
eight hours and no longer. The Adam
son 'bill does not provide that. It is a
mere pretence to say that it does. It
does not limit hours; it simply regulates
pay. It is a wage bill.
Let us look at the text of the act. It
provides that "eight hours shall, in con
tracts for labor and service, be deemed a
lays work and the measure or standard
of a day's work for the purpose of reck
oning the compensation for services" of
t he em doves mentioned. That is the
only purpose the purpose "of reckoning
compensation." There is no limit to
hours of work. Then, again, it is' provid
ed that pending the report of the com-'
mission and for 30 davs thereafter "the
compensation of railway employes sub
ject to this act for a standard eight-hour
workday shall not be reduced below the
present standard day's wage, and for all
necessary time in excess of eight hours
such employes shall be paid at a rate
not less than a pro rata rate for such
standard eight-hour workday." There is
no fixing of hours of workj there is no
prohibition of working more than eight
hours, l he reference to eight hours is
solely to fix the wage seal.-. As Senator
t'nderwnod said in the course of the de
bate in the Senate, "rejdying to another
senator:
"If the senator would go nd consult
with any of the gentlemen who represent
the employes and who have been contend
ing here in this matter, thev would tell
him candidly, as they told me, that the
question is a question of wage; that they
are not contending for an eight -hour day,
that a man shall work only eight hours:
thev do not want that."
Plainlv, whether there should be at
this time an eight-hour workday in a
particular employment depends on the
conditions of that employment. Some
employments are readily adjusted to it
and others are not. Railroads are not
like ordinary industries. It was not
suggested that it was practicable to put
in a true eight-hour day on railroads.
Indeed, the contrary was conceded. Rail
road runs are made to division points.!
Men select their homes accordingly. The
time of actual service may be more or
less than eight hours. This has not been
changed; it was not intended that it
should be changed. The change is in the
wage scale, not in the hours of labor.
Railroad wage schedules were based on
hours and miles; ttart is 10 hours and
100 miles. If a man made his 100 miles
in less than 10 hours, that is, in four
hours, he got a day's pay. If it took him
12 hours, for example, he got a day's
pay and two hours' overtime. Now, the
change was not to limit or alter the
hours of labor, but to pay on the basis
of eight hours instead of 10 hours. It
is a mere increase of v,,ges by fixing a
different basis for calculating wages.
Service over eight hours is not prohibit
ed. It is not penalized. No penalty i
provided for permitting any one to work
a longer time. On the contrary, Such
work is evidently contemplated. The
railroad runs must be completed in any
case, and. under this bill, all service over
eight hours is simply to be paid for pro
rata. The bill says that "for all neces
sary time in excess of eight hours such
employes shall be paid at a rate not less
than the pro rata rate for such standard
eight-hour workday." There is no in
creased rate for additional riirs
It is, therefore, wholly misleading to
refer to this bill as an eight-hour bill.
Let the bill be called by its right name.
What is fair and right can afford to be
described correctly and can stand on its
merits.
STEM CRISIS
BY BIG BUYING
Stock Market Had Most Vio
lent Half-Hour Since
1907 Panic
WAR STOCKS FELL
OFF DOZEN POINTS
Banking Interests Sent in
Large Orders, Which
Stopped the Fall
AUTO DROVE HEAD-ON
INTO STREET CAR
New York, Oct. 0. The stock market
was demoralized at the opening to-day,
standard issues of war stock breaking
even 12 points. Chicago reported a down
ward crash of wheat values. The cotton
market also broke.
After the most excitincr half-hour since
the panic of 1!0" the tide of liquidation
was stemmed by a heavy volume of buy-
ng orders reported to have been sent by
banking interests.
SAW COMPANIONS
DROWNED IN LAKE
DEFENDANT'S WIFE !N COURT.
Henry Wagner Lost Case and His Wife
Was Fined at Montpelier.
When Mrs. Henry Wagner was ar
raigned in Montpelier city court this
forenoon on charge of breach of the
peace, her husband, nenry Wagner, val
iently announced that he would conduct
the defense. The prosecution presented
three witnesses to show i'nxt Mrs. Wag
ner committed an assault upon Mrs.
Louis Gould of Northh'eld street last
Tuesday and Henry, who has had consid
erable experience in such matters, having
appeared in court himself on different
charges more tnsn once, cross-examined.
them britkly. The respondent then told
her story and her husband followed. The
grand juror won the verdict over Hcrfry,
the court deciding that the respondent
was guilty and inllkted'a fine of $5 and
cots of $11.73.
According to the testimony of Mrs.
Gould, her son, Da uglily, and E. E. Stone,
an employe of the Goulds, the trouble
rose over the posstssion of a key to a
nement owned bv the Goulds. The
Wagners were moving and Mrs. Gould
demanded the key, but was refused. Mrs.
Jould became insistent, according to her
testimony, and Mrs. Wagner began pull
Fishing Expedition Stopped by Tragic
Happening, Burlington and Hunting
ton Men Being the Victims.
Burlington, Oct. 0. A fishing party
planned for yesterday at Mallett's bay
was tragically interrupted when Earl C.
Morrill, 33 years old, of this city and
John Smith, 27, of Huntington, were
drowned in the broad lake between Hog
Back island and the long fill of the Rut
land railroad, which connects the mtifl
land with the islands. Just what caused
the men to fall into the water from a
motor boat will never be known as none
of the other four men in the party saw
the accident.
The men left Burlington about 8:30
o'clock yesterday morning in the motor
boat ' Lucas," the property of h. A.
lirodie of this city. In the party were
Earl 0. Morrill, John Smith of Hunting
ton, who was working on Mr. Morrill's
residence, O. H. Morrill and B. E. Mor
rill of Huntington, father and uncle of
E. C. Morrill, 1). J. W hitton, brother-in-
law of E. C. Morrill, and Mr. Whitton's
son, John. The latter two live in Wil-
liston.
While there was a rather brisk south
wind blowing, it wa-s not considered by
those in the party that the weather was
bad enough to keep them from making
the trip, m;re especially as they were to
go north and would therefore run with
the waves and wind.
Earl Morrill ran the engine, his father
steering, the helm being in the prow
of the boat. After Colchester Point had
been rounded and Iaws island was over
the stern a course run north was taken
towardg the draw bridge near the north
end of the fill, under which Mr. Morrill
intended to pilot the boat into Mallett's
bay. The spray hoods, bow and stern,
were down.
That accident occurred about 100 rods
south of the draw. According to the
story of the men in the boat. Earl Mor
rill, who was near the engine, stepped
upon the small break at the stern of the
boat, perhaps a yard wide at the combing
and tapering back to a point at the
stern post. Mr. Morrill stood up to
wave to the crew on the milk train,
which was passing over the fill. The
others were also waving to the trainmen
from their positions in the boat. Smith
sitting at the stern with his feet hang
ing inside the boat.
The first warning of the accident was
when Whitton saw the men as they were
falling" into the water. He shouted and
attempted to grab Smith, the nearest
to him of the two, but failed. Ono of
the men then did something to the en
gine which put it out of commission. It
is now thought that in his attempt to
reverse the engine he threw the clutch
in too hard, stalling the motor.
The boat was too far from the strug
gling men to give them help and both
after swimming about for a ttme in their
heavy clothing sank from exhaustion
their companions watching their strug
gles without being able to give them aid.
Former Vehicle Smashed and Two of the
Occupants Were Taken to the Hos
pital for Treatment of
Slight Injuries.
A Ford car from Middlesex crashed
into a southbound street ear at the junc
tion near City square Saturday evening,
injuring two of the occupants and de
molishing the automobile. Frank Sillo
way, owner and driver of the car, and
Arthur Bailey, who was with him on the
front seat, were rushed to the City hos-
pital in ambulances, but members of the
police force who assisted passersbv in ex
tricating the passengers took another di
rection when they came to move Fred
Guyette from the scene of the wreck.
The street car, which had halted before
making the south-end run at 0: 10 o'clock,
was damaged slightly. Charles Silloway,
a brother of the driver, and Carroll
Chandler, who were on the rear seat
with Guyette, disappeared in the shad
ows of City square before the crowd
gathered. Their injuries, if any, have
not been inventoried for publication.
Reports concerning the condition of
the driver and liailev varied consider
ably. It was rumored about the streets
after the accident that the men had sue
cumlied; but Silloway was discharged
from the hospital Sunday morning and
physicians who are treating Bailey for
injuries about the chest and facial con
tusions believe he will not be kept there
very long.
Silloway drove his Ford car directly
into the street car. Motorman George
Smith was in the vestibule of the car
awaiting the signal from Conductor
Clyde Brigham to lay off the brakes for
the south end trip. Passengers arriving
from Montpelier and points intervening
had left the car and others had got
aboard when Smith saw the automobile
coming down South Main street. It
clung tenaciously to the car tracks and
the driver failed to heed the vigorous
elangin? of the bell at the head of the
car. The collision came at a time when
many people were abroad and conse
quently there were plenty of witnesses.
Most of those who saw the collision con
curred in their version of the affair.
When the automobile struck the fender
of the ear the radiator seemed to disap
pear somewhere under the front seat.
Silloway and Bailey were jammed be
tween the front seat and the remnant of
the hood and windshield. The crash
broke the fender on the street car, splin
tered the woodwork and shattered the
glass that fronts the motorman's vesti
bule. None of the occupants was thrown
out of the automobile.
Among the first to reach the injured
travelers were the motorman and con
ductor, who were quickly joined bv Dep
uty Chief Gamble, A. ' J. Cave. N. O.
Ralph, Earl Ward and Henry Hill. In
five minutes the rescuers themselves were
calling for help so rapidly did the crowd
collect. Slltoway and Bailey appeared to
be unconscious and neither of them had
anything to say when doctors arrived.
Guyette was locked up at police bead
quarter on an intoxication charge. Aft
erward the remnant of the automobile
was towed to the Perry garage and early
Sunday morning street sweepers cleared
away the last vestice of the wreck.
Bailey is a well known Middlesex
farmer who was formerly engaged in the
livery business in Montpelier. His wife
and daughter live in Middlesex. Frank
Silloway has been employed by Bailey,
a
the town road commissioner. All are
HOME RUN
BY MYERS
Gave Brooklyn the Lead in
the First In
L . ning
BOSTON EVE TD
SC0R' .N THIRD
Both Gard? ? and Hooper
Mad' startling
.tches '
Innings 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Tot'
Br'kl'n 1 0 o
Hoston 0 0 1 U)irm.T.Tm'f.T
Braves' Field, Boston, Oct. !).--"Babc"
Ruth and Shcrrod Smith opposed each
other in the second game of the world
series this afternoon. The lineups were
as follows:
Brooklyn. Boston.
Johnston, r. f Hooper, r. f.
Daubert, lb lanvrin, 2b ;
Myers, c. f Walker, c.'f.
Wheat, 1. f Hoblitzell, lb
Cutshaw, 2b Lewis, 1. f.
Mowrey, 3b Gardner, 3b
Olson, ss , Scott, ss. ,
Miller, c Thomas, c
Smith, p Ruth, p
First Inning.
First inning: Johnston flied out to
Walker after the count was 2 and 2. I
Daubert fouled out to Gardner who had '
to run to the home bench to make tha i
catch. Myers drove a long hit to tha :
center field fence for a home run, and ;
the crowd gave him a big cheer. Myers
had crossed the plate before the ball
was returned to the infield. Wheat flied
out to Hooper, who took the ball on the
run. One run; one hit, and no errors.
In the second half of the first inning
Smith tossed out Hooper. Janvrin sent '
a line fly to Myers who did not have to
move out of his tracks to get the ball.
Walker sent up a high foul to Daubert.
No runs, no hits, no errors.
Second Inning.
Second inning, first half Ruth deflect-
Cutshaw's- grounder to Gardner who j
threw him out at first. Mowrey line-flied )
to Janvrin. OJson struck out. No runs, '
no hits no errors.
Second half," Olson threw ont Hoblit- ,
zell... Lewis singled over second. Smith i
tried to pick Lewis off first and Manager
Carrigan claimed a balk. It wae not al- j
lowed. Gardner forced Lewis, Mowrey !
to Olson to Cutshaw. Gardner was picked
off first, Miller to Daubert. No runs,
one hit, no errors.
Third Inning.
Third inning, first half. Brooklyn was
playing with a snap and dash and confl- j
.HIOW.Y oeen , ..;. Hpm.e that lid not mark thoir Btvle on j
nd Guyette work, for Michael Herbert UmUi K.ott threw mlt mie tJlk.
ing the ball back on the grass and mak-
comparatively young men. According to
some of the principals, Silloway invited
them to accompany him on a" trip to
Barre. Chandler and young Silloway
joined the party later and Guyette. one
of the original members, asked to get out
of the machine at Montpelier. According
to Guyette, his plans didn't jibe with
those of Silloway and Bailey and he
went the whole way with them. Guyette
told the police that members of the party
did not neglect to pay their respects to
several juice mills in Rarre as soon as
they arrived. Just before the accident,
he continued, in his statement to the
officers yesterday, Silloway drove the car
up SouA Main street. Once they turned
into someone's yard and brought up
against a barn, but made their escape
after using the tail light as a guide.
As they were returning down South Ma in
street. Guyette said, all of the passengers
cautioned Silloway to drive slowly and
to "keep to the right." He drove faster
than Guyette and Chandler thought was
necessary and refused to slacken the j
speed of the car even when the rear-seat
passengers told him to steer clear of the
street car.
DISTRICT MEETING IN BARRE.
MOTOR PARTIES IN COURT.
vessels under the rules of international ing her hair. Screams brought Daughly
law.
Admiral Knight reiterated last evening
that Commander Rose's call was one of
courtesy, but it was suggested that the
(frman commander wished to guard
sjrainst loss of life through the aid of
American vessels in picking up passen
gers and crews of ships destroyed.
ent a message to the Ericsson, saying: : erman submarine just outside the thrce
"Take off our pasenger." j mile limit and in sight of American
Before Commander Miller could get his chores is no different than a ship de
boats to the side of the steamer she had;stroyed in the Arctic c-eean. provided its
loaded all her paenaers in her own destruction is accomplished in avordance
boats, from whkh they were taken! with the laws of nations and humanity,
aboard the destroyer. The Eriunson I But. despite the fact that it seems to
brought 25 women and 10 children; the 'make little difference on which particu
dctroyer Balch brought 63 others. 1 lar part of the high sea Germsnv pros
(nf of the Stephano's passenger saidjecutes ber newest submarine campaign.
that while the (,ermans were encaced in 'omciais and diplomats see a situation
700 SOLDIERS LOST
AS STEAMER SUNK
French Auxiliary Cruiser Gallia Torpe
doed and 1300 Were Saved by a
French Cruiser.
Paris, Oct. 9. The steamship Gallia,
an auxiliary cruiser carrying 2.000 Serbi
an and French o!dier, a torped?ed
to the scene and he was met, it was al
leged, by Mrs. Wagner armed with a
club. Mrs. Wagner denied assaulting along six feet and then the stone and car
'oum ami u-eu u- cnio only inment over an e cht-foot embankment
One for Breach of the Peace; Other for
Intoxication.
Chelsea, Oct. 9. A Ford car carrying
Eli Kezer of Corinth and Arthur and
Alpheus Kezer of Granitevillo ran off the
highway near the home of Richard Bacon
on the main highway between this town
and Washington last evening. The party
gothe car. which was numbered 5.065,
Into the road after considerable difficulty.
During the time Mr. Bacon came out of
the house and, according to testimony
later, asked if he could help, whereupon
Eli Kezer hit him in the face, blackening
one eye. i
Presently the trio started toward
Washington and had proceeded about
one-half a mile when the car ran into a
granite stone six feet long, one and one
half feet thick and two feet wide. The
mpact was such as to move the stone
defense, she testified. Following the ver
dict the grand juror recommended that
a similar charge against Wagner be nol
prossed. Whatever qualification Henry
may have as an attorney he has not
into the hrook. the car turning bottom
side up. Eli Kezer was rendered uncon
scious and Arthur Kerer was injured
about the side.
Meanwhile Mr. Bacon had telephoned
kept pace with the legislature as ha ! t (T,clsea and Sheriff Tracy started for
was somewhat surprised w hen m forme.! j tr. Bacon's residence. Not finding the
Odd Fellows of 13th District Will Meet
with Hiawatha Lodge Tuesday.
The I. O. O. F. district meeting of the
subordinate lodges of district No. 13 will
be held in Barre Tuesday evening, Oct.
10, the meeting being opened at 7:30
sharp by Hiawatha lodge of Barre. The
evening's program is as follows: Intro
duction of grand officers: address of wel
come, Warner Wheeler, N. G. Hiawatha
lodge, No. 20; response. Key. James Bam-
age, chaplain Gill lodge, No. 57; response
for grand officers, J. G. Rov, grand mas
ter. East Barnet; exemplification of ini
tiatory degree, Arcadia lodge. No. 53,
riainfield; reports from lodges in the dis
trict: exemplification of unwritten work,
F. W. Jackson, grand secretary; remarks,
grand officers and others; closing exer
cises, Hiawatha lodge. No. 20; banquet.
The following are the lodges included
in district No. 13: Hiawatha, No, 20,
Barre; Cabnt. No. 40. Calxd; Arcadia.
No. 53. Plainfield; (Jill. No. 57, East
Barre; Williamstown. No. 64. Williams
town; Washington. No. 75, Washington.
I ing a long throw. Smith doubled to (
right but was thrown out stretching it,
Hooper to Walker to Scott. Johnson j
singled over second. Thomas almost j
caught Johnston off first with a quick
throw. Johnston was out stealing, j
Thomas to Janvrin, who was waiting for j
him with the ball as he slid into the bag. 1
No runs, two hits, no errors.
Third inning, second half. Scott drove .
a deep liner to left center for three bases, j
Cutshaw threw out Thomas. Scott hold- i
ing third. Scott scored when Cutshaw .
momentarily fumbled Ruth's grouit ler. ;
Ruth, however, was thrown out at first, j
Cutshaw let Hooper's grounder go ;
through him for the first error of the :
game, janvrin lorceu ltoopcr, uiwin iu
Cutshaw. One run, one hit, one error.
Fourth Inning.
Fourth inning, first half. Daubert
walked. A double play followed. Scott
took Myers grounder and tossed to- Jan- j
vrin, who then threw out Myers at first.
Ruth threw out Wheat at first. No runs,
no hits, no errors.
Fourth inning, second half. Smith
took Walker's puny tap and threw him
out. Hoblitzell walked. Iewis hit into
a double play, Mowrey to Cutshaw to :
Daubert. No runs, no hits, no errors.
A Beau's Weaux.
She figured that he would propeaux;
Angelina and Harry were beaux,
But poor Harry went broke
And as soon as he spoke
Angie cruelly turned up her neanx.
A Voice Mary! what are yon doing
out there?
Mary I'm looking at the moon, moth
er.
Voice Well ! tell the moon to go home, ,
and come in off that porch. It's half-past
eleven! Punch Bowl.
Discovery of Grand Canon.
The first white men to see the Grand
Canyon of the Colorado were Cardenas
and his 12 companions, who were guided
that an appeal could not be taken fromjKerer party there the officer continued j there by Hopi Indians from Tuesayan.
Cardenas was sent to Colorado to find
the wonderful river of which De Tovar
had hear from the Indians. He remained
disposing of the Stephano, a Dutch ves-1 filled ith so many possibilities that itan
aej. robab the Bloomertdijk, wail is almuet impossible to enumerate l&ciu jii
and sunk. .Thirteen hundred men were '
Judge Harvey's ruling ot guilty. on and came across the overturned auto-
Abe Aaron pleaded guilty to breach I niobile. Sheriff Tracy arretted Eli and
of the peace, consisting of striking Max Arthur Kezer and brought them back to
Zemmell of Randolph during an argu-j f 1ielea. Alpheus coming along on his
ment Friday night, and paid a fine of $5 own hook. To-day before Justice John
and costs. A sentence of not less than ! M. Comstock Eli Keier was arraigned for
four months in t';e houe of correction breach of the peace and was fined $50 and
was suspended and he was placed on pro- jcot. the tine being remitted and the Powell down the Grand Canvon in small
bstu.n. Zeb Carbo pleaded guilty to a , man being placed on probation for two! boat when practical Iv nothing was
:third offense of intoxxhatlon and sen--years. Arthur Kezer was fined $5 with (known of its course or character. His
tence was deferred
The Benefit of the Doubt.
"You don "t think that money brings
fiappiness!"
"Well; no."
"But still you are after money."
"Ves; you see while I don't think that
money brings happiness, I'm dead sure
that poverty doesn't."
The Deduction.
"What foolish things a fellow will do
when he is in love."
"Oh. Margv, has he proposed Phil
adelphia Public Ledger.
Husband Ves, "I'm certain this rest
will do me good, if only the bottom
of the stock market
four day on the rim at some point now i a,?n . .
I & r. , ia in M .
Wife Von surely rixln fc forget to
unknown, looking in vain for a way to
descend. It is aluays interesting to re
call the heroic trip made by Maj. J. W
tkei v tj a French cruir.
unable to mt a fine
and wiU sens 20 day in jail.
Henry Hale was jrosts, for intoxication, the whole amount- I journey began at Green river. Wyo., May
for a first effente ing to ?11.79. Grand Juror W. H. 24. and was notably successful.
bprague prosecuted.
L. S. G. S.
turn off your ticker, I hop. Puck.
A Difficulty oa tie Clyd.
Steerage Passenger (unaccustomed to
steamboats i Could ye tell me whit e4
o" this boat gngs tae Greenock? Pass
in Show. ; .
