CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
. :
t
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
ep ip if p p n P I l
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 214
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
ON TRAINS AND NEWS
STANDS ITVB CENTS
(0) 1 m fi'M m m
FOURTEEN INNINGS Air
ID BOSTON IS Wll
largest Game In History of World's Series Won Just As
-: Darkness Begun to Fall Attendance Greater Than Yes-
i terday, Being 41,373 Brooklyn Made Home Run in
First and Boston Second in Third Ten Innings Were
Blanks for Both .
Today's Great Game.
Brooklyn 1 6
Boston : 2 7
Attendance 41,373. Receipts $82,625.
Players share $44,618.04.
Each club's share $14,872.06.
Commission's share $8,262.60. ;
ft
By H. C. Hamilton,
(United Press Staff Correspondent.)
Braves Field, BoBston, Mass., Oct. 9. Boston's Red
Sox took the second game of the world's series from the
Brooklyn Dodgers here this afternoon in the longest and
i one of the most sensational struggles of the historic
title tilt.
For fourteen innings the teams battled tooth and nail.
In the stands more than 41,000 men and women alternate
ly sat breathless expecting to see the winning run go over
any minute, or cheered themselves hoarse as some won
derful play nipped a rally. Brooklyn's only run was scored
by Hy Myers on a terrific circuit smash in the first
inning.
For Boston another long distance smash counted for
their first run when Scott cracked a triple to left in the
third inning. Cutshaw then made a costly bobble and
Scott came in on Ruth's infield out. It was growing dusk
when the issue was finally settled after, two hours and
forty nine minutes of incessant and bitter fighting:
Hoblitzell went down to first on a enred nothing for the reputations proud
Imse on balls, his' fourth of the after- ly worn by the remaining members of,
noon. eLwis sacrificed him to second the glittering Red Sox pitching staff,
(nd Boss Oarrigan then showed rare , They went into the game with a cour
Mratcgy at least it was successful ngeous mien that spoke volumes of woe
liy sending in Gainor to pinch hit for for Manager Onrrigan's selection for
(mrdner, while the fleet footed McNal- the throwing job.
ly went in to run for Hoblitzell. ' The crowd still languished tinenthused
The count was one and one on Gard- but seats in the bleachers and pavilion
uer as the crowd sat breathless waiting filled faster than on Saturday,
tor the turn. - Hherrod Smith, who had At 1 o'clock the bare snots in left
(itched peerless ball throughout the aft-
ernoon, sem one ot bis fast ones cut- ripht field section wns crowded,
ting through gloom toward the plate.! The day should have militated ngainst
aiuor was set for it.' He swung his any great speed in londiug the bugs into
heavy. ash to it. There was a crash. The the stands and in the grandstand this
ball sped over Olson's head. Wheat was true. All morning clouds hung in
opine tearing in and it noemed that lie the sky and a stiff -wind swept the city
might reach it. But it was a safe hit. Kain seemed likely to fall several times.
JMcNnlly was tearing around third. Tho
crowo, yelling like mad, jumped to its
'ret'.; Wheat recovered the ball and
inaue a mighty neave toward the plate-
Miller threw aside his mask and, arms
outatretchrd ns McNally bore down on
liim. Tho Red Sox runner left his feet,
did over the pan an instant later the
nan settled in Miller's mitt and the
tame wns ever. It was evident that
Boston was brought around by the fight-
" .w.ife.n u.uuiiu u, me
iug spirit displayed by the Dodgers and
they turned out' by greater numbers by
5,000 to see the struggle over the throng
which witnessed the initial tattle.
U
By H. O. Hamilton.
I (United Tross staff correspondent.)
Braves Field, Boston, Mass., Oct. 9.'
t ockily confident that they will yet
J.rove superior to the famous Red Sox
llttnnaRt fflclorv the Tlrnnllim nn.lmi
this aftornoon set out after the second
ame of the world series and an even
"'V - -.
Kemimscent of their startling finish
NituTdiiy, they were determined to cop
or die in the attempt. Apparently they
hoot !
Just as I cot my furi'
out it turned fiol," said Mis Fawn
l.ippiucut t'day. A fool an' his money
are soon spotted.
"Oh.
2
1
field. bleachers were negligible and the
Just before the game was to start, was
one of the times.
Fifteen minutes before game time it
becamo exceedingly dark. Clouds were
gathering fast and there wns a distanct
feel of rain in the air. There was an
occasional slight splutter of rain, and
some of the more timid in the bleachers
hoisted umbrellas.
The izloomv duv cave rise to the pen
eral belief that the bottle would be be
rial wt-m-i mm- im- uuiuti nmiiu w i
tween Babe Ruth for the Sox and Jeff
Tfeffer or Jack Coombs for the Dndg- caped from the penitentiary lust night.
ers. Pfeffcr and Ruth are possibilities Both men were serving a term of
of peed and the clouds would enhance !from tw0 to fjve years, the first named
, their effectiveness. Both teams were!. ,,. ,,,. ,,., r,,u.
miit earlv for nractice.
" The Line-up.
Brooklvn Johnston, if.; Dnubert, lb;
Myers, cf.; Wheat, If.; Cutshaw, 2b;
Mowrev, 3b; Olson, ss.
n i ' t r ' . t At..
Walker, cf.; Hoblitzell, lb; Leads, If.;
Gardner, 3D; Seott, ss.
Umpires Behind plate, Dineen; on
bases. Quiglcvj foul li ues, O 'Day and
Connolly.
Batteries: Boston Ruth and Thomas;
-j Brooklyn Smith and Miller.
First Inning
Brooklyn Johnston up, strike one,
I called, strike two, swung, ball one,
foul, bull two, ball three. Johuxton
flew to Walker. It was an easy pop up.
Dauliert up, strike one, tried to bunt..
Dnuhert fouled to Gardner. Mevers up.
ball one, Meyers drove a home run into
deep center. It wa a Terrific clout on
which looer fell down In his attempt
to assist Walker to read it. Wheat up,
ball one, foul, strike one, bull two.
Wheat flied to lloon'r. One run, one hit
no errors.
Boston Hooper up. strike one, call
ed, ball one, strike two, swunv, ball
two, Hooer out. Smith to 1'aubert.
Janvrin up, ball one, strike one, swung,
strike two, swung, ball two. Jnuvrin
flied to Myers. Walker up, ball one
Walker -fouled to Dnubert. So runs, no
Kits, no errors.
Second Inning
Brooklyn Cutshaw- up, Ciithnw out
Kuth to Gardner. Kiith knocked down
the liner anil Gardner fielded it. Mow
rev lined to .lanvriii. Olson up strik
unir. trike two. swnnp. ball one.
one. swii
ball two, foul strike, OImiii fanned. Xo
runs, no hits, no errors.
This n nn wv inning for Kuth.
- ,.t tho n.,.1.,.. i,t..r n ... ....I, .
,,.,.. . nni.. -..,, ..;t.-K.-.t
h, "
I - - - - . - - .. -
I (Continued on page five.)
Seattle Has Bad Fire
On Docks Late Sunday
Seattle, WaBh., Oct. 9. Washington
national guardsmen, after being muster
ed out of federal service, but still at
the armory lute Sunday, afternoon,
fought along side Seattle firemen, a
gainst the flumes that, did $120,000
damage at'Pier 12,' occupied by the Gal-brnith-Bacon
Dock company.
Damage amounting to $40,000 was
done to the dock, warehouse and ma
chinery $ii.",000. Contents . valued at
$95,000 and made up largely of grain,
plaster, cement and building paper
were destroyed to the value of $80,000.
The cause of the blaze is unknown.
ENGLAND MAY ATTACK
English Paper Says: It May
"Be Unhealthy for Amer
ican Submarines
London, Oct. 9. Possible disagree
ment between the United Stntes and
Great Britain as to the German U-boat
depredations off the American coast,
was forecast by the Daily Chronicle
today.
Counter measures taken by the allies
will hamper American trade and also
make it "unhealthy" for American sub
marines off the-coast of the United
States, the newspaper asserted.
"The United States disagreed with
us whea it admitted the Deutschlaud,
but the disagreement is much sharper
when it admits a pirate craft like the
U-53 and fraught with many more in
conveniences for the United States,"
said the Chronicle. "What is to pre
vent the U-53 being replenished nt Am
erican ports and practcially using the
American coast as a base for preying on
Frenchand British steamers!
"Obviously, it Germany is allowed to
wage such a'wnr o" the United States
coast, we must take counter measures.
American trade will ue naoipereu, anu
incidentally-, the oilier side of the At
lantic will become very unhealthy not
only for German, but for Amorioan sub
marines. "All these difficulties would be
avoided if the United States govern
ment declined to let its coast become a
German submarine base and we must
still earnestly hope that the policy
adopted in the caso ot the v-ai may oe
reconsidered."
TWO MORE CONVICTS
GET TIRED AND QUIT
O'Brien and Smith In For
Burglary Saw Their Way
to Freedom
Sawing the locks from their cells and
sealing the wall by means of a rope of
blankets while a guard slept, James
1 rt . . . , ... ,
O'Brien and Frank Smith, burglars es-
irUUl -UUS IUIH, IMC tiv-l ivu au.-
nomnh.
O 'Brien, whoso oge is 42, is described
ns follows: Height, five feet eight
inches, weight 148, fair complexion,
brown hair, blue eyes, erect carnage,
long oblique scar on forehead, ear lobes
I pierced- His number is 7,255.
Smith is 39 years old, is five feet
six and three-fourths inches tall, weighs
149 pounds, ban fnir complexion, brown
hair, dark brown eyes, erect carriage.
He has a lurge curved scar on the index
finger of his right hand and also on the
index finger of his left hand. He has
n mole at the outer angle of his right
eyebrow. His left foot is small and
drawn up, which has resulted in his be
ing known as "Foot and a Half Smith."
His number is 7,104.
The guard whose dnty it was to have
intercepted the escaping prisoners, and
who has admitted that he was asleep, is
D. B. Smith. He han been discharged
from the prison employ.
The penitentiary officials are at a loss
to understand how the men obtained pos
sesion of the saw by means of which
they escaped from their cells. The cell
locks were sawed in two.
Senator Burton to
Speak at Dallas
Theodore Burton, formerly a candi
date for the nomination for president
on the republican ticket, was in Salem
tu.luv. He took luncheon at tiie .'In
i rion hotel and then proceeded to In.le-
peudence and Monmouth, where he
mane speecues mis niiermion. ev
cnuig he siM-aKs at innus in ine armory
at S oVI.nk. it i exiicctcil a iiiimlter
: of Salem republican! will go over to
Dallas to attend the meeting. Judge
! Charlie McXary is among thoBC going
I tj attend tho rally.
EXPECT GERMANY
TO KEEP PLEDGES
AS TO TORPEDOING
So Far; In Attacks Along At-
Iantic Coast She Has Ap
parently Done So
ALL SHIPS SUNK WERE
GIVEN FULL WARNING
President Says He Has No
Right to Question Ger
many's Good Faith
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 0. ''Tin
German government will be held to the
complete fulfillment of its promises to
the government o'f the United StateB,'
President Wilson said today in a state
ment to tho American people, upon tin
German submarine attacks off. New
England. t
The statement follows:
"The government will, of course.
first iuformvitsolf as to ali the facti i
and there may be no mistake or doubt
so far as they are concerned, and tha
country may rest assured that the Ger
man government will be held the com
plete fulfillment of its promises to the
government of the United Stntes.
"I have no. tiglit to question tneir
willingness to fulfil them."
(.Signed) "WOODROW WILSON."
When he saw Ambassudor BernBtorff,
President Wilson planned to take in full
the latest developments in the subma
rine issue between the two govern
ments. In official circle the-situation wns
regarded as fraugwith ominous pos
sibilities, but pending - definite word
from Berustorff and from, official gov
ernment reports, no conclusions were
ventured by officials here. .
Ambassador Berustorff saw the presi
dent about 1 o'clock, arriving here
earner man us cAjjtruieu. surtcru'
ed in uvoiding the newspaper men.
Situation Causes Anxiety.
Asbury Park. N. J., Oct. 9. President
Wilson was still without official word
early today on the German raids off
New bnglanu, neuce wuuuciu any linn
cation of his attitudu.
He was aluted to talk with German
Ambassador Von Bernstorff t 2 p. m
for the first time in many months. Tho
conference was arranged some time ago
for the purpose of discussing Polish re
lief. Until late into the night, telegraph
ers worked with Washington to learn
whether the German U-boat had violat
ed the pledges given by the Imperial
government in the past. But no deter
mining Indication came.
The deepest anxiety over the ritun
tion was manifest, but official action
and official comment were withheld in
keeping with the past rules not to act
without full facts.
Messages from the state and navy de
partments early today said these branch
es were hard nt work to arrange infor
mation nnd would rush through it the
moment it was obtained.
Bernstorff 's visit is assumed to be,
as stuted reliably, for the- purpose oi submarine which sank the steamer
delivering Kaiser Wilheliu's answer to stephnno. Miss Wilson, who was a pas
the president's personal appeal for co- aenger on the Stcphano said she lookcu
operation bv European rulers to help Bt the submarine through, glasses and
starving Poland declared she could not be mistaken ofa
May Be "Peace Move." the letter and figures she saw. As the
Nevertheless some saw in the visit an fighting submarine which put in at
extra significance In view of rumored Newport wus tho U-C3 this would defin
peace moves by Germany as well ns itcly account tor two submersibles.
the fact that German raiders so spectne- At Nantucket a report has been pick
ularly sunk ships off tho American ed up that two or thrco submarines are
coast. in action and that the number of ships
Officials here attach littlo import- SUnk is now eight or nine,
anco to tho letters delivered by tho U- The crew of tho steamer Kingston, one
S3, pointing out a special German mes- uf the six known victims, was still miss
senger would have forwarded these had ing today. Thero is every hope that the
they been vital instead of having them men from this ship mny still be adrift
intrusted to an ordinary American clti-1 or picked up by soino destroyer which
len. has not yet reported. Good weather
As for a new pence move, officials, prevails off the New Dngland coast and
including the president, profess to have 'if the Kingston's crew got off beforo
no information. There is every Indica
tion that the government sees no early
end of the war, nnd plans no part in
bringing such an end immediately.
Daniels reported earlv ailvices re
ceived show no loss of life ns the re
sult of the submarine attacks and that
the submarines gave full notice of their
intentions before sinking any of the ves-
pels. No definite word has vet been
received from the crew of the Kingston
which was sunk 30 miles off Nantucket,
nnvnl reports said.
Several United Stntes destroyers are
in that vicinity.
New York, Oct. !. The Scnn-dinnvion-Amcrienn
liner Freder
ick VI 1 f. bearing American
Ambassador Gerard of Berlin,
will dock here at 8 a. m. tomor
row, according fa a wireless
front her captain today.
E
SHIPS
SUNK
PASSENGERS SAFE;
American Destroyers Pick
Up Small Boats Loaded
with Victims
THINK AT LEAST TURK
DIVERS ARE AT WORK
American Ship Kansan Car
rying Contraband Al
lowed to Proceed
FLEET ORDERED OUT
Newport, R. I. The entire
torpedo flotilla was ordered to
sea early; this afternoon to
search for the missing crew of
the Kingston one of the U-boat
victims. According to latest re
ports the U-V baa completely
disappeared.
sc 4c )jc sjc sfc s(c 9)c jc jfc )c )Jc ))c jfc
By Fred S. Ferguson.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Boston, Mass., Oct. 0 The trans-Atlantic
lane over which has flowed a
steady stream of munitions and supplies
for the allied powers from American
shores, is in tho grip of submarines of
the kaiser 's navy today.
Six unarmed merchantmen are known
to lie on the ocean bottom south of Nan
tucket, toredoed by German subma
rines and lute reports are that two and
possibly three more have been sunk.
The vessels positively known to have
been destroyed are:
- The Stephano, 2,143 tuns, British Bed
! Cross' line,; St. Johns, N. to New
Xorn. ..
The Strathdene, 4,321 tons, British,
New York to Bordeaux; The West Point
(no tonnage given), British, London to
Newport News; the Kingston, (no ton
nage given),-British, destination . not
known; the Bloomersdijik, 3,201 tons,
Dutch, New York to Rottordnm; Chris
tian Knudson, 2,038 tons', Norwegian,
destination unknown.
The passengers and crew of all the
j vessels are known to have been rescued
with tho exception o'f those
of the
Kingston.
The fate of tho men on this ship is as
yet unknown.
Allied warships are now closing in up
on Germany's now submarine zone. Tho
crackling wireless of three British eruia
era is mingliirg with that of American
destroyers out upon the sea on missions
of mercy and rescue
Sure One Is U-61.
Reports to Nantucket, Newport and
Boston indicate there is certainly more
than one submarine striking terror along
the grout international waterway. Of
ficials of tho steamer Kansan toduy
after being held up by a submarine yes
terday, indicated their belief that two
of Germany's super-U-boats were oper
ating nt America's very portals.
A dispatch from tiie United Press
stnff correspondent nt Newport dc
Clares Miss Murguret Wilson stilted
positively that she saw the name "U
01" nainted on a life preserver of the
their ship went down, naval officers be
lieve there is every reason to take an
optimistic view of the situation.
21 S Survivors Landed. I
A total of 2HI survivors have now
been landed at Newport from four
American destroyers. The Kricsson land
ed 81, the Drnyton OS, the Itcnham ZU
and the Jenkins 31.
Dicludcd among the passengers were
many women and 14 babies.
The survivors brought stories scarce
ly equalled in the lore of tho sea since
the sinking of the Titanic or the Luai
tunin. There is nn doubt in shipping
circles here thut Germany's plans for
intercepting munitions carrying ships
were carefully laid. Kluding the allied
putrol, the submersibles have establish
ed themselves squarely in the path of
piucticully ull trnns Atliintic ships.
The regulur lune, recognized by all
navigators, it off Nantucket light. It is
there that the monstors of the kaiser's
submarine force are lurking. They are
in a position to strike any type of ship
thf v desire.
(.Continued on page three.)
ONE CREW
MISSING
ETJMOKED THREE ALLIED
WARSHIPS WEBS SUNK
Newport, B. I., Oct. 9. Two
survivor of the Kingston were
picked up this afternoon by the
destroyer Cunningham off Nan- ,
tucket lightship, according to a
sttaement from Admiral Gleaves,
aboard the scout cruiser Birm-.
ingham.
There was a wild rumor that
three allied warships stationed
off Nantucket, lightship had
been torpedoed but the - com
mandant at the training station
says no wireless had been received.-
No information regard
ing this or the capture of the
U-53.
THE EIGHT-HOUR LAW
Spent Much Time Trying to
Prove It Was Not An Tight
Hour Law
By Perry Arnold
(United Press Btarf correspondent)
Newark, N.' J., ;4t. 9. Candidate
Hughes loosed his heaviest battery of
assault on the Adamson eight hour law
here today in the speech inaugurating
his third campaign trip. Without us
ing names, he ironically paraphrased
"do not run away and dream that you
will have courage in a future day," in
referring to what he said was the demo
cratic " administration's capitulation"
and "humiliating surrender to duress"
It was the republican nominee's
most careful analysis of the democratic
settlement of the railroad strike which
in previous speeches he has dubbed
"the paramount" issue of the cam
paign. He went into great detail to
declare that the bill was not an eight
hour measure, but merely "a mere in
crease of wages by fixing a different
basis for calculating wages," He read
letters dated far back ss July 29, 191(1,
to controvert the democratic claim that
the crisis in tiie railroad situation- was
a "sudden" one the letters being
from the chamber of commerce of tho
United Stutes urging an inquiry. Ho
quoted Senator Underwood as admit
ting on tho senate floor that "the
question is a question of vage; that
they nro not contending for an eight
hour day; that a man shall work only
eight hours; they do not want that."
"Service over eight hours," Hughes
added,' "is not prohibited. It is not
penalized . on the contrary, such
work is evidently contemplated. The
railroad runs must be completed in any
en and under this bill, all service
over eight hours is simply to be paid for
pro-ruta. It is therefore wholly mis
leading! to rcier to mis uui us
hour bill. What is the purpose of
this attempt to make the public believe
that this bill fixes an eight hour work
day! Manifestly, in order io endeavor
to justiry tins exirnorumurjr m-w'ii
thn wl.n'iniittrntion iii its.abiect and
humilinting surrender of principle in
ilnniiiniliiiir nud securing this legisla
tion without any proper authority, as
the price of peace."
Campground Mayor
Loses Wheelharrows
Albert Tozier, who has handled tho
camping feature ot tho Oregon state
fair for 20 years, reports the disap
pearance on Saturday, of two or three
of his wheelbarrows, somoone going to
his cottage yard and taking them off
tho grounds, and he fears they have
been stolen. For the convenience of
those who wish to UBe the grounds he
has all these years kept at his own ex
pense, for the free use by the public,
wheelbarrows, axes, saws, hammers,
tents, nails, picks, shovels, post hole
diggers, sledges, mauls, rakes, hoes,
hose, puns, kettles, buckets, tables,
boxes, poles, stukes, medicines, etc., otc,
all of which cost the general public not
a single cent, the mayor bearing the ex
pense himself, and he has the utmost
confidence in his tented city residents,
but he feels that some stranger hus
conic along and appropriated his person
al prnpcriv, OS a nuinuer ol iuui ..
failed to appear after the close of the
,.., r.,ir 'iimlnr of campers who
have arrived in the rain in days gone
by and failed to receive xacir cumping
outfit by freight or express have found
it a grent convenience to temporarily
go into a furnished tent tree or any
chargo whatever. I nnecssioiiers mm ex
hibitors arriving late and minus camp
ing outfits have found free tents at
their disposul, with fire ready to kindle.
REFORMER QUITS JOB
n..ff..i v v . fe. It. Thomas Mott
Osborne, philanthropist, reformer and
"golden rule" warden of Sing Sing
prison, has resigned as warden, state
superintendent of prisons James M
Carter announced here today. The rcsig
nation will tuke effect October It). The
resignation was vuluntary, i aner num.
JAP CABINET COMPLETE
Tokio," Oct. ft. Marshal Count Te
rnuchi, new Japanese prime minister,
has completed his cabinet with the
statesman, Motouo, as forcigu minister.
TRANSPORT SUNK
2000 Oil BOARD
BUT 1ST ESCAPE
Supposed To Be the French
Lmer Gallia Now h Trans
port
NO INFANTRY FIGHTING
ALONG FRONT ON S0:"vlE
.
.British Make Important Gains
and Capture Villages in
Macedonia
French Transport Sunk.
Paris, Oct. 9. Tho transport Gallia,
carrying 2,000 French and Serbian
troops, has been torpedoed. ' Tho tor-'
pedo exploded tho transport 's cargo of
munitions.
Up to the present 1.3(12 soldiers have
been rescued. Tho survivors were land
ed at Sardinia.
i resumaDiy tno Dig i'rencb liner Gal
lia, is the transport sunk. The Onl-''
lia was built in 1913, displaced 14,900
tons and wis 574 feet long with a t2
..wuu u' u in. mm w us reiBieiea ai Bor
deaux and was in South Atlantic serv
ice before the war.
British Make Galas. .
London, Oct. 9. Pressing their' ad
vance Oil the alliffrl riorht winir !n MnM.
donia, the British have occupied the
villages nt (Sivfl nrmnh Armani! nn.t
Haznatar, it waj officially announced
British cavalry has joinod In tho pur
suit of the Ruluntiniw unA ha. .....I.-
ed the line of Karuraska-Salman-Hom-
onaos. ,
. Quiet on tho Somme, .,, . .
l'uris, Oct. H.-rArtillerying occurred
south of. the Somme and In the region
o'f Hove last night, but the utmost ca-lm,
so far as infantry operations were con
cerned, prevailed along - the entire
French front.
Tl
Sharp Decline Follows Re
port, Prices Recover But
Drop Hard Again
New York,' Oct. 0. German subma
rine activities off the New England
coast started a near pnnie in Wall
Street today, causing a break in prices
of the New York Stock Exchange of
to 1U (Kiints within a few minutes af
ter tho opening.
Thousands of small speculators who)
havo been playing the booming market
for four weeks saw their accounts wip
ed out as prices tumbled before an ava-
I lnncho of selling orders. U. 8. Steel
dropped four to 7 points on the first
sules and soon added another paint to
its loss, selling at 108. Marine prefer
red showed a 13 point loss at 100(4 at
, Kh.'iO. Some recoveries had been made
at 11 a. m. . '
j Republic Steel dropped 10 poiuts to
sixty and within a few minutes snide
A complete recovery to 70. Within an
hour U. S. Steel rebounded four point
to 112 and I'nion Pacific regained .54
selling ut IIS1-... Steel and Kquipment
shares generally followed tho leader.
Sales during the first hour were t7!l,
000 shares, an a million shares had
been sold at 1 1 :30. At that hour prices
were down 1 to 4 points from Saturday.
At noon 1,183,000 shares bad been
traded, indicating a two million share
day.
Support of big Interests was nut suf
ficient to hold stocks at the crest of
their recoveries and at noon prices sag
ged off again. On sale of Xlt.OOO shares
United Stntes Steel broke to 108, re
covered to 113 3-4, and then declined to
110 7-8. After selling at 77, Kepublio
broke to 72Vi- Marines preferred drop
ped back to 10i!4 and Union Pacific
sold at 14(iVj.
THE WEATHER
Oregon: Fair
tonight and Tues
day: warmer
south and enst
portions tonight;
easterly winds.
THi71ni.t. ME.J
