1706 -s. wssri
' ' ' - . -.-i-J... ' ,
VOL LVIII. NO. 178
PRICE TWO CENTS
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., WEDNESDAY, JULY 26, 1916
TEN PAGES 80 COLUMNS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double " W of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
RUSSIANS PRESSING
BACK THE TEUTONS
Berlin Admits the Penetration of General Von Linsing
en's First Line Trenches in Volhynia
DRIVE OF THE TURKS IN
Fierce Fighting Continues Between the Birtish and Germans
in the Somme Region of France British Are Tenacious
ly Holding to the Positions of the Villiage of Pozieres
From Which They Drove the Germans Italians Report
the Capture of Monte Cimone by Their Troops-r-In the
Carpathian District the Austrians Have at Several Points
Attacked the Russians Operating Against Them.
Fierce fgh.llng !s still going- on be.
tween the British and Germans In tl.a
mme region pi' Franco, tho men In
t'-cir endeavors press forward or to
iio.d bark attack! frequently engaging
ir, hand-to-har.d "mbat,
Thn British are temiohlously hold-ins-
to the portions of tho vllage of
Pozlores from which they drove the
c-ciTnans and with their artillery fire
havs rnpuls-vl thorn on attempt by the
Oman Infantry to retrain possession
of the northeastern portion of the vil
la s-e.
Cnlm has prevailed on the French
section of the front In the Somrat re
gion. In fact, except for a violent
bombardment of La Laufeo, to the
northeast of Verdun, the French war
office say there has been no Import
ant action on the entire French front.
The Russians continue to make pro
press sralnst the Teutonic allies In
the Volhynia district, driving their
!--n across the Flonevke river despite
the fire of the Teutons. One thous
and prisoners and four cannon and five
machine puns, which later were used
niralnst the Austrians and Germain,,
PRESIDENT UPHOLDS SENATE
NAVAL BUILDING PROGRAM
Word Sent to the House Leaders From
the White House
Wnshlncton. July 25 President Wll
"n has determined to stand squarely
behind the increased senate r.aval
building: program. Official word of
his desire that the senate provisions
be accepted by the house In conference
was sent from the White House todas
to administration leaders at the cnpl
tol, where conferees will begin con
Fidcntion of the naval bill wlt!iln a
few days.
Representative Buchanan of Illinois,
a member of the naval committee, tem
porarily blocked reference of the meas
ure to conference in the house today
but administration leaders will Insist
on a conference and the rules commit
tee will be ready to force that disposi
tion of the bill when the house meets
nirnln Thursday. Representative T!u
chanan objected to Chairman Pad
gett's request for appointment of
conferees under unanimous consent.
Senate conferees already have been
nn.med.
Whether President Wilson's influ
ence will be sufficient to put through
the big senate propram. carrying pro
vision for immediate construction of
four dreadnouehts r.d four battle cruis
ers, and a three year continuing build
ing program, is uncertain. During tho
discussion In the house today several
representatives souirht to have the
house conferees bound on certain
amendments, but Chairman Padgett In
sisted that they be left free to smooth
out differences in the house and sen
ae measure at their discretion.
NEW HAVEN TROLLEY
CRASHED INTO AUTOMOBILE
Throwing the Occupants of Auto in All
Directions.
Milford. Conn.. J-ily 25. Four per
sons had narrow escapes from death
todav when a New Haven bound trol
ley car crashed into an automobile at
Ray view station, throwing the occu
pants in al directions and hurling the
automobile with such force against tho
trolley station that the structure was
partly demolished.
Mrs. Alfred Carpenter of New York
and Mrs. Ayrcs of Port Jervis. N. Y.,
f-uffered cuts and bruises about the
body. Pr. Carpenter and a friend es
caped with only a few scratches. The
injured women were taken to Dr. Car
prnter's cottage, near here.
CONVENTION OF NATIONAL
DENTAL ASSOCIATION
Relation of Mouth Infections to Gen
eral Health Emphasized.
Louisville, Ky., July 25. The rela
tion of mouth infections to general
health and the importance of making
certain that dental repairs are prop
erly made and permanent were the
two Ideas given special emphasis at
the second general session here tonight
of the twentieth annual convention of
tho National Dental Association.
Three speakers discussed these Ideas,
developing the fact of the Individual
frequently Is Borlously and vitally af
fected by an unsanitary condition of
the mouth.
DOMINATION OF FERNALD
INDICATED IN MAINE
As Republican Candidate for United
States Senator.
Portland, Me., July 25. The nomina
tion of Bert M. Fernald of Portland
as republican candidate for United
States senator at yesterday's : special
.primary, wra Indicated tonight by re
turns from ail excerot 115 email' towns
and plantations. The totals were 8,
826 for Fernald and 8,14ft for Congress
man; Frank S. Guernsey of Dover.
Ten of the'; sixteen ' counties were
carried by Mr?. Fernald.
ARMENIA STILL GOING ON
were taken In this region by the Rus
sians, Herlln admits the penetration by the
Russians of part of General von Lin
slnger's first line trenches In Volhy
nia, In the Carpathian distrlot the Aus
trians at several points attacked the
Russian cavalry operating against
against them, but Petrograd says they
were everywhere repulsed,
The drlvo of the Turks In Armenia
is still going on and with the Russians
on their heels, the Turks are fleeing,
abandoning guns and munitions along
the roads, The Russians have thrown
their pdvanced guards to within ten
miles of Frzingan, in Central Armenia
and the. Turks there are declared un
otnclally to be preparing to withdraw
from the fortified town to a new base
at Sivas, J30 miles to the west.
In the Austro-Italian pone the
Italians report the eapture by their
troops of Monte Cimone, in the PqbU
na-Astk'o sector, a further adlince in
the Monte Chiesa region and the re
pulse of counter-attacks op trenehes
they had captured near Rasera. and
Zeblo, en the Asiago plateau,
BRITISH CRUISER" STEAMED
THROUGH VIRGINIA CAPES
Later Returned te n Pelnt Just Outr
elds the Three Mile Limit,
Norfolk. Va July SB Filotless and
without warning to tfniled States of
ficials, one of the British. Bruisers lyinj
off Capo Henry ewaltin the appearance
of tho flermi-.n submerslbles Deutseh
land and Bremen steamed through the
Virginia Capes early today, proceeded
to tho vicinity of Fortress Monroe,
crulned about, for an hour or more and
then returned to a paint Just outside
the three mile limit,
j no i.nnaci stales warship Louisiana
anti tno coilier Neptune were the only
government vessels which sighted tho
ship rind a dfitailed report of the in
cident was made to Washington fo
nlght by naval offleers, Authorities
here mild that while the entrance te
American waters without warning was
very unusual, they could see Jn na
violation of International law er navi
gation regulations.
Initial knowledge of the presence of
tho cruiser In American waters eame
when an officer of the Louisiana sight
ed her about F.00 yards behind him Juat
inside Capo Henry, She was carry
ing steamer lights.
Members of the crews of the Vir
ginia and Maryland pilot boats whln
lay near tho entrance of Cape Hen
ry said today they did not see her pasa
in or out of the capes.
SENATE FIRM FOR
LIBERAL ARMY BILL
All Efforts to Reduce Items of Ap
propriations Bill Failed.
Washington, July 25. All efforts to
reduce items of the army appropriation
hill below the figures recommended by
the military committee failed la the
senate today and indications tonight
were that the total appropriation for
that branch of national defense would
approximate $290,000,000 when tho
measure is completed.
Passage of the bill Is expected to
morrow. Most of the appropriations
as revised by the senate committee
had been acted upon when adjourn
ment was taken tonight. As the bill
sands it represents an Increase of
$110,000,000 over the house authoriza
tion. By a vote of 13 to 36 the senate to
day retained a house provision pro
hibiting installation of so-called stop
watch systems in management of gov
ernment works.
DEMOCRATS DETERMINED TO
PASS CHILD LABOR BILL.
Have Yielded to an Urgent Request
From President Wilson.
Washington, July 25. Yielding to an
urgent request from the president,
democrats of the senate, In caucus to
night, determined to pass the child la
bor bill at this session of congress.
The decision was reached after a
long debate, during which several
southern senators, whose opposition
forced the measure out of the Imper
ative legislative programme drawn
nn several dava np-n vtffn.m,ai
Jected to its reinstatement. The final
unci uuiiaiiuii iu inuiuae it was reach
ed without a record vote. It will dis
place the Rhlnniner bill rn Vm a.n A
calendar, coming up as soon as the
army ana jjisLrjcc or J01umDla ap
propriations have been passed. The
o Vi rt . maaonra '111 fAllAn. 44 J -
der and the revenue bill will come up
next.
Opposition to Chilean Ambassador.
Santiago, Chile, July . 25. -Owing to
Internal political questions, the Chi
lean senate has delayed giving its ap
proval of. the nomination, of Santago
Aldimate Bascunan to be ambassador
to the United ' States . in succession to
Eduardo Suarez-Mujlca, who resigned
last January.' In" some quarters; oppo
sition has arised to the appointment.
Cabled i agraphs
Bread Cards in Holland.
Amsterdam, Holland, July 25, via
London, 9.30 p. m. The Dutch govern
ment Intends to introduce bread cards
throughout Holland, according to an
nouncement made by the Telegraaf.
The reason assigned for the action is
the shortage of grain.
NO CHILD 16 OR UNDER
CAN LEAVE NEW YORK
Railroads Are Cooperating With the
Federal Authorities.
New York, July 25. Efforts of the
federal health service to prevent, if
possible, the spreading Of infantile
paralysis to cities and towns outside
of New York, were strengthened today
when an order was issued that no
child sixteen years of age or under
be permitted to leave New York with
out a certificate from the federal sur
geons. All railroads leaving the city
are co-operating with the federal au
thorities and no tickets were sold un
less the required certificate was
shown.
To obtain federal certificates, chil
dren first must get certificates from
the New York health department,
showing there have been no cases of
infantile paralysis In the houses In
which they have lived during the pnttt
six months. They also must pass an
examination by federal surKeons.
Dr, Charles E. Banks, tho senior
federal surgeon here, advises headn of
families In New York to keep their
children at home. He declared tonight
there was little danger, however, if
children leaving New York were
watohed or kept under quarantine for
two weeks,
NEW HAVEN HAS FOUR MORE
CASES OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS
Brings Total Up to 24 Since the Out
break of the Epidemic,
New Haven, Conn., July 25,Feur
mere eases of infantile paralysis were
reported in this city today, bringing
the total ui3 to Zi fiince the outbreak
ef the epidemic, One ease was re
ported in Cheshire today, a seven
months' eld child in ti. Crandall f:im
ily being stricken,
19 Cases In Albany,
Albany, N, July ?6 Nineteen
eases of infantile paralysis, making ft
total of gag in the state outside of New
York city, were reported to the state
department of health in the H hours
ending at 5 p. m, today, In the same
periocf two deaths were reportedj
bringing the upstate fatalities t-i gf
since the outbreak ef the epitle-mio,
RESOLUTION CONDEMNING
PMITI3H BLACKLIST
Patsed by Individuals pnd Firms Af'
feetpd,
New York, July ga.The erganiK3
tien. formed hist w-eeis by individuals
and firms afft-.pt.ed by 'the jiritisn
oemmereial biackiitit adopted resolu
tions, today declaring it to Up the duty
of the United States government to
demand that Grett Britain revoke the
blacklist, It was decided that Ihe
organization shail pe Jsnnwii the
Assoo:atian tfi Resist iiriutiri JJopii
nation of American Commerpe.
Edward Stegeman, &v whs ehflsen
treasurer, and t-ha following mem'bers
of the executive esmmittee werd HP
pointed by Leopold Zimmerman- J. A.
Kuhle, John Simon and Pi', Ferdinand.
ponnebern,
Copies of the resolutions V'ill be
piaeed in the hands of every member
uf the house of representative and
senate, ail cabinet officers and gqy
ernora of the states, ifaurioa II,
Blumenthai of eounsel for tho assqpia
tion Jeft for Washington, tonight to
present ft copy of the reeoiut jons to
president wfisan,
CRUISER ACTED WITHIN
HER I INTERNATIONAL RIQHT3
Offlolals In Washington Are Inclined
te That Belief,
Washington, July S Officials here
were Inclined to believe tonight that
the cruiser which mode an incursion
into Hampton Roads early today had
acted wholly within her fights under
International law, Although officiKi
comment will be witheld pending re-
ceipt of the pavnl report on ti)8 ln
cldept, it was Indicated that the yer
sion contained Jn pews despatches
shewed no violation of Arp.Pt'iPan ntu
trallty or navigation ressvtlntiopa,
Considerable interest, in tho iruis
er's exploit was expressed nmepg ef
flclalH, who were fit a loss to account
for her movements. Although the
United States government is taking
all legal steps to prevent the Deutsche
land from beinff handicapped in hfr
departure by denomination of news of
her intentions, It frenenvlly is supported
that the allied patrol off tho capos
has nieans of keeping informed up to
the time of her sailing, at least.
CHAUFFEUR DID NOT
CONSIDER BEER INTOXICANT
His Licenso Suspended Indefinitely by
Secretary of State Burnes,
Hartford, Conn., July 25. F, P.
Sheronas of New Haven, whose auto
mobile license was suspended in 1909
after a fatal accident, had his license
returned to him today after a hear
ing before Secretary of State Burnes.
W. N. Robins of Stratford had his
license suspended indefinitely for driv
ing while under the influence of li
quor. He told the secretary that he
did not consider beer an intoxicant.
A number of drivers had their li
censes suspended for overloading Jit
neys. OBITUARY
Paul Armstrong
New York, July 25. Paul Arm
strongjauthor of "Alias Jimmy Valen
tine," and" otTier successful plays, died
Indebt, it was disclosed today in an
affidavit filed in the surrogate's court
by his widow, Mrs. Catherine Calvert
Armstrong. The affidavit stated that
all Armstrong possessed when he died
was $247 in cash, an automobile valued
at $200 and wearing apparel worth
$50.
Daniel W. Francis.
"Wether afield, Conn., July 25. Daniel
W. Francis, a charter member of the
"Wideawakes" and a well known Civil
war veteran, died today, aged 75.
Movements of Steamships.
Plymouth, July 19. Arrived, steam-,
er iAlunia. New .'York.
Glasgow, J uly ? 24. Arrived,;, steamer
rruscania. New "York.
New York, , July " 2 5 Sailed,'. ateameH
"America, Genoa,
NewiYork. July2&. Sailod. Steamer
Caaerta, -Genoa. ' . - - - -
Not Permitted to
Land in England
TREASURER AND ASSISTANT OF
IRISH RELIEF FUND
NO REASON ASSIGNED
Thomas Hughes Kelly and Joseph
Smith of New York Were Informed
That They Must Return to American
Line Steamship Philadelphia.
London, July 25, 4.30 p. m. Thomas
Hughes Kelly, of New York, treas
urer of the Irish Relief Fund, and hia
Wife and hli assistant, Joseph Smith,
were refused permission todav to land
In England or to cross England to taka
a Dutch steamer back to the United
States from Falmouth.
Not Permitted to Land In United
Kingdom.
The American embassy, to which
Mr, Kelly protested, was Informed by
the British home office that the Kelly
party must return to the tTnltod States
by the American Lino steamship Phil
adelphia, on which vessel they arrived
at Liverpool yesterday, Under no clr-
enmBtanotii, officials of the home office
said, would the party bo permitted to
land in the United Kingdom,
No Definite Reason Given.
No definite reason is given by tho
authorities for their refusal to permit
the landing of Messrs, Kelly find
Bmith except, that their presence here
la not approved.
On JuneJS Messrs, Gllland Murphy,
of the Irish Relief Fund, arrived In
Ensiand and were allowed to proceed
to Ireland,
No Disposition te Hold Up Funds,
There is no disposition on .the part
of the povernment to hold up funds
eentrihujed by persons in the United
Bfttes for relief in Ireland, but eer
tttin individuals will not. be permitted
ta enter Ireland, Kelly and Pmith
evidently come under the latter eat,
gory,
KELLY WAS EN ROUTE
TO DUBLIN WITH $50,0:0,
Secend Installment of f?B,05Q Fund
Raised in This Country,
?tew York, July 25, -Eugene JTughes
Koily, as treasure rof the "United. Irish
fteiittf fund, wag en raute te) Publin
With 58,680, representing the Meeond
instiillmont (if the Jfn.quf) ftffld. raised
in iljit; country fop trie j'elief of per
fcont; in Iruland w!l had suffered
through the recent revolt, Hr was
pocompanied '"'V hia -Wlfo, Whrt was
Kmei'finee do Htilliep riu pien ef Watei'
town, N. Y,, and Joseph fiiriith flf LfiW
til. Mass., a journalist And lecturer.
The tirst installment of the fund
was U'fc en to Irelapd hy Rill find Muf,
jihy. Friends oi Kelly jsaid here to
day ihat lie intended to give more
than Sdtw.fiftft out of hig own funds ta
tne relief worli,
8tate Bepaptment te Take Matter Up,
(3eerge J: Gillespie, ehairmpn flf the
ei-eeiitive eemmittee ef the Irish. R.
lief fund, when informed of the pre
(lifament of Kelly and tho latter's
pariy, at once communicated with he
ptjite department, He said ,e in-foi-metl
that action would be taken im,
mediately,
Gillespie eatd he eauld nt unfle?
stand the action ef the British authori
ties in view (it the fa. nt that Kelly
and tho etheps had in. addition tf5 tfteip
passports a, personal letter from fcieo
rr-tary of State Lansing introducing
tnem to the A?neriQin ftinnassador at
London,
Mission Was Relief ef Needy,
''ThPir passports," asserted Gillespie,
''were 'Obtained through my efforts,
and I assure you their mission ta Ire
land was none other than the one
stated therein the relief ef the needy,
Tim uritisn eonsuirgeneraii vlpeil the
passports before the party eatied and
informed me of their acceptability, If
there was any objection, why wasn't
It expressed at mat time','"
Kelly, eon of a wealthy hanker, Is
BO years or age, a mem.Qei" of the papal
household and a trustee of rU. Pat
rick's cathedral of this Pity, Jfe la a
jjrana-nephew of Arcnbleftep Hughes,
tho first aruhntshop of Now York, who
was eent to France by President Lin
coln as a special ambassador during
tue t-.'ivn war,
Smith Served In U, 8, Cavalry.
Smith was born in Ireland 53 yeans
aero. In 1S73 he came to the United
ihtat.es and in 3.S84 was naturalised
He was at various times editor of tho
Lowell Tlme.H, Host on Traveler, Boston
Truth and other newspapers and perl
odleals. He served four years in the
united etates cavalry.
Kelly recently was a Hpecial lnves
tlgator for the Massachusetts railroad
commission. In his application for a
passport ho save as his vouchors tho
names of United States Senator
Weeks, the governor of Massachusetts
former Governor Glynn of Xew York
and Congressman Rogers of Massachu
setts. Local officers of the Irish Relief fund
declared the organization is strictly
non-political, in spite of the fact that
many of them openly avowed the cause
of Irish independence.
Catholic Prelates Honorary Presidents.
Thomas Addison Emmet is president
of the fund, W. Bourke Cockran, vice
president, and John D. Moore, secre
tary. Cardinals Farley, Gibbons and
O'Connell are the honorary presidents
and all the Roman Catholic bishops
and archbishops In the country are
honorary vice presidents.
SALVATION ARMY'S WEALTH
IN UNITED STATES
Officers Stated in Petition for Mort
gage That It Aggregates $8,353,159.
New York, July 25. The Salvation
Army's wealth in the United States
aggregates S8,353,15'9, its officers stated
in petitioning1 the supreme court in
Brooklyn today for permission to
mortgage a piece of property.
Mexican Delegates Appointed.
Mexico City, July 2o. Unofficial re
ports here are to the, effect that Gen
eral Luis Cabrera, a lawyer, Alberto
Panl, an engineer, ' and Roberto ; Pes
tjuiera"! have been designated asidele
gates .to a . conferenca . which will' en
deavorstoibrtag'i aboutj-a isettlemont , of
the r controversy "between" Mexico and
the '.UniteS.taie.- -', -w-
Prosperity of Steel
and Iron Industry
SHOWN BY QUARTERLY REPORT
OF U. S. STEEL CORPORATION
EARNINGS OF $81,126,048
Figures Disclose an Increase of $20,
412,424 in Total Earnings Over the
Previous Quarter Extra Dividend
Declared.
New York, July 25. The extraordi
nary prosperity of the steel and iron
industry, chiefly as a result of the
European war, was disclosed today by
the publication of the second quarterly
statement of the United States Steel
corporation for 1918. It showed total
earnings of $81,126,048, net income of
$72,380,222, and surplus balance of $47,
064,535, after payment of regular divi
dends of 1 3-4 and 1 1-4 per cent, re
spectively, on tho preferred and com
mon shares, and an extra dividend of
1 per cent, on tho common.
Figures 8howinQ New Record,
These fig-urea, which constitute a new
record, show inereasea of tho previous
quarter of $20,4 12,424. in total earnings,
$20,151,6(33 In net Incomo and $16,110,
Sfl3 in surplus. They wore far beyond
(ho estimates ef tho financial commun
ity. For the flrnt half of tho year earn
ings Increased $101,431,808 over tha
tsama period of 19 IS, and tho total hal
ance of $111,219, 1,12 represents on In
artse of 1$0b,731,51O,
Cemmon Dividends 39 Per Cent, for
Half Year.
The balance for tho second quarter
1b equal to almost 47 per eent, on the
outstanding stook, and fop the flrat
half year the 'balance app'iuftble to
eommon dividends is almost 89 per
cent, An analysis of earnings for tho
eiiiarler shows a jrtin ef more than
?2, 000,008 in May oyer April and a
modarato gain ever May In June,
whit had been expected to show a
refusion,
Tho eiftra dividend dealared today
Is the first flUtniraeroent ef Its Hind
ginea the first titianer e IStlO and is
aaeeptact aa ncii'tlftl eamoensatlen for
the period of euspendtd dividends on
the pommon stot'ls between tho Inst
fiutjrtc-.r of 1 P 14 ttnd tho game quarter
of tne renewing yetip.
R1V, WILLIAM PERSY EVELAND
ACCIDENTALLY ELECTROCUTED
Hl tee! fishing Red Came In Con
iaet With High Tension Electrlo
Wire,
CariiBio, Pa.:, July 3a,-il?qv, William
J1v1md. paieKiapary hjahop ef
tut) ijVititi-ieujtjt: jiacHtifif fuiiti'PU tor l-iio
PtiiiiUPiiie idianna, w'iVrt had been pniaa,
inaf pHi-.tin yestecflay, when he started
eri a, fiahinij trip, w-a found dead today
eleotroenifcij when his etee Jishingf pod
earns in ponjaet With ft high enisien
eieptrir! wife, jte wad paesinir linage ft
nlvfiu4 hfhiga when tn? aeojilent ee
eurreii. At iii'st it was balif-ved that
he had been killed by "lightning,
Bishop. Kye'and wfua 83 yeara old, He
He was a former president ef pieitin.
gop, petninary at "'il!iamspert, Pa,
eOLLEQAN8 IN FEDERAL
8IRVICS TO BE MUSTERED OUT
In Time fer Them to Proceed With
Seheel Work In the Fall,
"Wftshtneten, July 2S. All national
euara ertr-inistatioRfl eentpespd of eol
lege etudents will bo mustered out of
the federal wvic In time for them to
prawned with their school work at the
fall term, It was pnnounced at the
war department today that tho polloy
ot the government would be to ells
hand euch orea-nUatlono oomplPteiy fts
tmita of the national guard and to seok
the reerganlgation et tlis coIIokq men
In brant hen ef tha efiteerfl' rcser-o
corps,
Kjttianal guard units composed of
Htudents, but who have pot pnno to the
herder prior to Ana. 1 will not ba eent
forward, fUid similar organizations on
the border will be withdrawn on Sept.
1 for mufltm-ing out unless some new
emerseney arises.
Individual memborn of neero nation
al guard orrranlaatlonn who can show
tho intention of entering: or returning
to eollege er schools for the fall term
also will be mustered out on Sept. 1.
GARMENT WORKERS ACCEPT
THREE YEARS AGREEMENT
Vote Was 43 in Favor of the Settle
ment to 40 Against It.
New York, July 25. At a spirited
meeting: which lasted until after mid-
niptht the preneral committee of the
garment workers union decided to
night by a close vote to accept the
three years agreement signed yester
day by officials of the union and rep
resentatives of tho manufacturers, thus
ending the lockout and strike for three
months virtually has paralyzed the
women s clothinR industry In this city.
The vote was 43 in favor of the set
tlement to 40 against It.
FINE OF 5,000,000 MARKS
IMPOSED ON CITY OF BRUSSELS
For Celebrating the Belgian National
Festival.
Amsterdam, Holland, July 25, via
i-.cndon, 8.27 p. m. A fine of '5,000,000
marks has been imposed upon the city
of Brussels for celebrating' the Belgian
national festival last Friday, accord
ing to the Echo Beige.
CLEARANCE PAPERS NOT
ISSUED TO DEUTSCHLAND
Her Wireless Apparatus to Remain
Sealed Until Inspector Returns.
Baltimore, Md., July 2.6. At a late
hour tonight customs officials said
clearance papers had not been Issued
for the Doutschland. Concerning her
wireless apparatus, which was sealed
Monday, it was said the seals cannot
be broken without authority from Ra
dio Inspector Cadmus, who is out of
the oity and will not return until to
morrow. Food rlts are takinq place at K-
Tilla,tBulgart8i - ,
Condensed Telegrams
Miss S. MacNaughton,' an English
author, is dead.
Four Nebraska political parties held
state conventions yesterday.
The customs report of tho Republic
of Nicaragua in April were $88,058.
The United States armored cruiser
Memphis, arrived at Santo Domingo.
In all fourteen cases of infantile
paralysis have been reported through
out Iowa.
Edward Carlson of Brooklyn, was
drowned while swimming at Beach
Lake, Pa.
President Wilson nominated Edward
T. Scully to be postmaster at Pitts-
field, Mass.
The Republic works of the National
Tube Co., at Pittsburgh have resum
ed operations.
A charter was granted to the Mon
itor Motor Co., at Albany with cap
ital stock of $300,0-00.
More than 117,000 French soldiers
have contracted tuberculosis in the
trenches since spring.
Peter Palumbo, aged 19 years of An-
sonia, was drowned in the Naugatuck
river at noon yesterday.
Georse Zeialer, who was a star
player with the Pittsburgh National
iiO years ago, is dead.
The Pine Canyon & Bingham Tunnel
Co. has been Incorporated with a cap
ital stock of $1,500,000.
Charles H. Moyer of Great Falls
was reelected president of the West
ern Federation of Miners.
Tha Canadian Gasoline Corporation,
Ltd., of Ottawa, has been incorporated
with a capital of $3000,000.
Brooklyn will be moved to Van
Cortlandt Park from Peekskill.
Twenty persons were drowned In a
collision between two ferry boats on
the River Spree, at Copenhagen.
The Mutual Trust Co. of Orange, N
J., waa closed by an order of State
Brtnking and Insurance Commissioner
Laments..
Mrs. William 8. Sharp, wife of the
Amerlfmn Ambassador to France, sail
ed on the pteomer Rochamboau for
Now ierk.
Christian Warfare was diaouased by
the speakers at tha session of the In
ternational Blbln Students' association
at Norfolk, Va,
Eight prisoners escaped from the
State prison, at Bismark, N. D., by bor
ing a hele in a two-foot brick wall.
The rnedlonl staff of tha Gorman
armv la feeling the. effect of tho
British bleakada In ft shortage of
ne.geasa.ry gursieal supplies.
Rear Admiral Caperton, recently re
Haved o command of the cruiser
fctjuadren in Haitian and Dominican
waters, arrived at waemnston.
President Wilson has eeleeted United
Statea Senator Thomas J, Walsh, of
Montana, to he chief of the Democratic
NftUontM Committee headquarters.
Ralph Albert Blakelock, the artist,
will be released from the Miacueton
N. Y State Howpital for Insane, where
he nas been eoitllned for 18 years,
8lf Roger Coaoment's request for
permission to appeal to tne iiouse or
loros from tne veraiet convicting mm
of high treason has ben denied.
Cheso playera from all parts of the
United States mot at Buffalo for the
opening of the New York State Asso
eiatlon's annual meeting and tourna
mont.
President was asked by represent
attves of tho New York State Fair
Association to make an address at the
fair in Syracuse the week of Septem
ber 11.
Tho War Department has instructed
army commanders on the border to
suihmit weekly reports showing the
actual physical condition of their
commands.
Former Governor O. B. Colquitt of
Dallas, Texas, is leading in the state
race for senator in the count of the
450,00 votes cast in Saturday's Demo
cratic primary.
Ulysses Aubrey, of Tacoma, driver
of an automobile in a pusuit race at
Portland, and Frank Piatt, were killed
when his car left the track and tore
through a fence.
The body of Lieut.-Col. M. C. Butler
of the Sixth United States Cavalry,
who was killed at Alpine, Tex., by
Harry J. Spannell, was buried in Ar
lington Cemetery.
Ernest LeFord, sentenced to a five
year term in Sing Sing prison in
April, 1915, disappeared from the road
gang with which he was working
near Croton Lake.
The Western Union Telegraph Co.
announced that the wireless communi
cation by way of Sayville, D. I., and
Tuckerton, N. J., has been suspended
until further notice.
Premier Asquith introduced a bill
in the House of Commons providing
for commissions to investigate the
conduct of the Mesopotamian and
Dardanelles campaigns.
Major-General William C. Gorges,
Surgeon General of the United States
Army, who has been touring South
America for the purpose of studying
sanitary conditions, has returned to
Panama.
The contraot settling the garment
strike was signed by leaders of the
International Ladies' Garment Work
ers Union and the Suit, Cloak and
Skirt Manufacturers' Protective As
sociation. Mrs. Donato RIcolo, of No, 280 Front
Front street, Hartford, mother of ten,
is In a precarious condition in St.
Francis hospital from poison, self
administered. She fought all first aid
efforts to have her life.
Paralysis In Glastonbury,
Glastonbury, Conn,, July 25. An
other case of infantile paralysis was
repqrted today, the patient being Nina
Brataejgjanojiths oJd .
DEMOCRATS INVITE PROGRESSIVES
To Unite With Them in Their Efforts to Reelect
President
RESOLUTION DRAFTED
Major Louis E. Stoddard at Meeting Held in Hartford Resign
ed as Treasurer of the Democratic State Central Commit
tee Vacancy Filled by the Election of Secretary P. B.
O'Sullivan of Derby State Headquarters to be Opened
at New Haven as Soon as Possible It Was Voted to
Hold a State Barbecue in the Latter Part of August.
Hartford, Conn., July 2o. The dem
ocratic state central committee, at a
meeting here today, extended an in
vitation to the progressives to unite
with the democrats in their efforts to
re-elect President Wilson. A rcscr
lution, drafted by National Commit
teeman Homer S. Cummings, was
adopted as follows:
Invitation to Progressives.
"To the progressives of Connecti
cut: Wo. extend to our fellow citizens
of Connecticut who are believers in
progressive principles an invitation to
unito with us in our efforts to aid in
the re-election of President Wilson.
"We believe that a continuation of
his administration is imperatively re
quired to inspire the peace and con
tinued progress of our common coun
try; and we believe that the construc
tive legislation enacted under his
leadership during the last three years
constitutes a persuasive and powerful
appeal to those who are progressives
In principal and who desie to pe-
BATTLE OF SOMME CONTINUES
WITH UTMOST STUBBORNNESS
The British Are Making But Slow
Progress.
London, July 25, 10.33 p. m. The
battle on the Somme front which be
gan Saturday at midnight and has
continued since with brief lulls is still
being engaged by British and Ger
mans with the utmost stubbornness.
A.n Indication of the importance the
Germans attach to defending then
third line is found In the report of
General Halg. the British commander,
and in the German' nd mission that
troopH have been brought from before
Verdun In order to lend all possible
strength to General von Elnem.
The British, If they are making but
slow progress, have been able to re
pulse all the fierce German counter
attacks and fully- maintain their
ground, although tho fighting largely
consists of hand-to-hand conflicts.
There is no news as to whether the
Australians, who hold the greater por
tion of tho village of Fozlcres. have
yet secured tha eastern part, which is
on tho plateau dominating- the vlflage.
But General Hnlff tonight reports the
ropulKO of a German Infantry attack
from the east,
Advices from tho eastern front to
day are meagre, but the Grand Puke's
troopa are gradually closing In on Er
sdngan, tho most Important base and
military position of tho Turks In Asia
Minor, whllo General Snkhnroff con
tinue his successful advance.
According to a Berlin despntch, by
way of Amsterdam, Turkish troops are
to be sent to help the Austro-Oermans
ngolnst the Russians on the Galiclan
front.
DR. ARTHUR WAITE CUTS
HIMSELF WITH BROKEN GLASS
Prisoner Was Found Bleeding From
a Wound in His Chest.
Sing Sing Prison, N. T., July 25.
Dr. Arthur Warren Waite, awaiting
electrocution here for the murder of
his father-in-law. John E. Peck of
Grand Rapids, Mich., was found in
his cell in the "death house" tonight
bleeding from a wound on his chest
made in the shape of a cross. The
prisoner had cut himself with a piece
of broken glass.
How Waite got possession of the
glass could not be explained. It is
presumed that when he was taken out
for exercise in the courtyard he pick
ed it up when the vigilance of his
guard was relaxed and concealed it
until he returned to his ceil.
Waite was removed to the prison
hospital, but he steadfastly declined
to answer questions. The prison au
thorities believe if he had intended
to kill himself he would have inflict
ed the wound elsewhere than on his
chest. The injury is not serious. A
strict watch will be kept on Waite
when he returns to the death house.
VISITORS NOT ALLOWED AT
CONN. SCHOOL FOR BOYS
Because of Prevalence of Infantile
Paralysis in the State.
Meriden. Conn., July 25. The Con
necticut School for Boys will be closed
to visiting parents and relatives dur
ing the month of August because of
the prevalence of infantile paralysis
in this state, was the announcement
given out at the school today. No
tices to that effect will be sent to par
ents and other relatives tomorrow.
The school has been closed to all other
'isitors for tho past ten days and will
be practically isolated now until Sep
tember. There are 431 boys in the
state institution of which about 70
per cent, are under the age of 16 and
are susceptible to the disease. It is
tha intention of the officials of the
school to take the greatest possible
precaution in guarding the boys
against the disease which claimed by
death two Meriden children early to
day. The medical board of tho local
hospital has voted to bar all children
visitors under 16 years of age,
Cave-In of Restaurant Kills Two
Women.
Hagerstown, Md., July 25. Two
women and one man lost their lives
today when a restaurant caved in af
ter the walls had been weakened bv a
cloudburst. The dead, all of Hagers
town, are: Mrs. Vallie Anderson, Mrs.
Mary Summers, S. Oil. Norton. The
women were employes of the restaurant
Wilson
BY HOMER S. CUMMINGS
vent the restoration to power of reao,
tionary forces. ;
Resignation of Treasurer Stoddard.
The resignation of Major Louis E.
Stoddard of New Haven as treasurer
of the committee was accepted and the
vacancy was filled by the election at
Secretary P. B. O'Sullivan of Derby,
it being deemed best to combine the
two offices.
Edward P. Ideating of New Haven
resigned as committeeman from the
Ninth district and Edward O'Meara ol
New Haven was chosen to fill hia
place.
To Open State Headquarter,
The chairman and secretary were
authorized to open state headquarters
at New Haven as soon as possible. It
was voted to hold a state barbecue in
the latter part of August and Georgo
M. Landers of New Britain was named
as chairman of the committee on ar
rangements. The committee will
meet at New Haven Wednesday, Au
gust second, to decide on the date and
other plans.
DR. WILFRED E. HARRIS
SUCCUMBS TO WOUND,
Charge Against Dr. Atwood Changed
to First Degree Murder.
Boston, July 25. Dr. Wilfred E.
Harris, who was shot last Tuesday by
Dr. Eldridge D. Atwood, died late to
day. His wife was with him at the
end.
The police announced that ttie
charge against Dr. Atwood would be
changed from assault to first degree
murder.
Dr. Harris failed to rally from the
state of coma into which he lapsed,
last night. He made no statement
bearing on the case, according to the
police. An autopsy will be perform
ed tomorrow by Medical Examiner,
Timothy J. Leary.
An extra guard has been placed over,
Dr. Atwood as a result of his display
of extreme nervousness, the first he
has shown since his arrest. He was
not told of Dr. Harris' death. The po
lice said that he would be formally,
charged with first degree murder to-'
morrow. '
Intimations have been given by At
wood's senior counsel, George F. Bean,
former mayor of Woburn, that when
the young osteopath was brought to
trial his defense would be insanity. To
support this theory they advance tho
claim that an uncle committed suicide
ten years ago after escaping from a
hospital for the insane. His grand
father also, it has been claimed, had
showed symptoms of an unsound
mind.
70 YEAR OLD DENTIST
OF LYNN MISSING.
Disappeared Last Thursday While on
a Fishing Expedition.
Otirling, N. F., July 25. !NV trace
had been found today of Dr. Edwin J.
Thompson, a dentist of Lynn, Mass.,
who disappeared last Thursday while
on a fishing excursion at Little river.
Spurred by a reward of $100 offered by
the doctor's friends, natives have
searched the woods and mountains for
many miles around.
Dr. Thompson, who is 70 yeara c
age, left the camp alone Thm-sday to
go salmon fishing and failed to re
turn. Later his lunch bag and fishing
rod were found near a pool some dis
tance away. His companions believe
that he is somewhere in the mountains,
possibly having become exhausted
during his long tramp. He had visited
the district a number of times end
was well known there. xIe larix eea
here p.bout two weeks.
Dr. Thompson was a native of Dover,.
Me. His wife was spending the suoa
mer at Kearsag.e N. H.
PRESIDENT AND CABINET
HOLD POLITICAL SESSION.
To Map Out Plans for Coming Presl-i
dentiai Contest, I
Washington. July ?3. President
Wilson and members of his cabinet!
mapped out preliminary plans todayj
for the coming presidential contest and,
decided that except in JMaine, where anj
election will be held Sept. 17, active.;
campaigning will not be started vntilj
congress adjourns. So far the presi-j
dent has no plans for going intoi
Maine, although he will undoubtedly i
take part In the campaign there byj
writing letters and receiving delega-;
tions. Secretaries Wilson, Daniels and
Redfield, former Governor Glynn ofi
New York and Senator James of Ken-!
tucky are among speakers who will feej
sent Into the state. i
The president's plan is to remain,
here until congress adjourns and then!
go to Shadow Lawn, N. J., for the
formal notification ceremonies,, Tha!
only definite speaking engagement heJ
has is in Kentucky in September, twit
Chairman Vance MeCormick of thej
democra.tio national committee Willi
recommend that he make several other,
addresses during the next few weeks.'
BRANDEGEE A MEMBER j
OF JOINT COMMITTEEj
To Investigate Conditions In Inter-!
state and Foreign Commerce.
i
Washington, . July 25. Senators 1
Newlands, Robinson, Underwood, Cum" j
411111a cum ui (inucsce weiH uouay ap
pointed members of the joint commit
tee recently created by congress to
investigate conditions in interstate
and foreign commerce) anc the neces
sity for further legislation relating to
