VOL. LXXXIII.-NO. 330.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JULY 26, 1916. Copyright, 191. by the Sim Printing and FuHUalno AuoclaUon.
pPMm In Drealer New York. 1 KlMirhm
VjEiiN X Jersey City and Newark. J TWO CENTS.
CITY ZONE PLAN
ADOPTED; BARS!
QtfYQPR iPPR
OiVlOUllnllJiVOl
Hush to File Specifications
Under Old Law Pre
cedes Actum.
TOTAL FOR TWO DAYS
KXCKKDS ftW.OIMKOOO
Murray Hill Saved for
Homes nt Last Estimate
Hoard 11 oaring.
MO Kit AX WLS TOIXT
OVEIt HAKOX ASTOK
- . af-
KCaltV hXpel'tS Agree JlOVC
I
Is Great Stride for Sta
bility of Values.
travel." , The latter will not come South for prob-
She was found yesterday to be suffer- ably two months.
, IV v-,-1. ' with ,i well recounted case of In-. Lifting the embargo upon able bodied
No more skyscrapers in .ew lor. tantill pnrayilB on the diagnosis of Dr. men has resulted In a pronounced move
No more Wnolworth. Singer or Metro- George . Goler. city health officer of ment on both sides of the Hlo Grande.
r-,iun lowers Vi. more. Fniiitable H -Chester. Dr. (kiler said tie would look and. according to Information In XtcAI
polltan towers. No more, r.qullable HtWlm.r -t euch ,l(X.unl(,n!s , th(, fll. Men to-day some of the mines of Monterey
bulldlnss nor nnythlnR approaching turf anrt the Incident Is likely to make I ate In operation on.- more,
that structure In helcht or area of lot It even more difficult for parents to leave I At Second Hilgudc headquarters It
covered. .Moderately low mil. nines are ,
the rule hereafter, no constructed that
.me owner ennnot rob hi. neighbor of
llRht of lllr. No more paraKe Invnd-
Ir.c splendid homo sections. No more
factories Intruding In the city' finest
No more monstrous
,.....
parttnenta to overshadow and destroy
the attractiveness of purely residential
district.
That was the edict sent out ester-
.... .. ..... . .,
d.ty fiom City Hall when the Hoard of
Estimate by unanimous vote adopted
the plan of the Commission on Hu'.ld-
. , , ...
Inc Dltrk-ts and Hestrlrtlons, which
has been In the making for two years.
,. . - ,. . . ., .,- -
It has for its object the prevention of,
ir.dlFcrimlmtfi building of structures
ulthout re'stlnn to neighborhoods
unoui re.ation to neignbornooda.
rlshts of property owner or extorting
valuer The plan became effective
with the adoption of the resolution
which means that unless nl.ins f(,r n
hlsh building have been filed already
with the Htireau of llulldlngs no
.tructure mn he erected hereafter
above n certain comparatively low
r.elsht unless It hns decidedly greater
1 ght and nlr courts than have been
required In the past anil unss above
in legal height It covers a oompara-
I
...li. afn. nnrtf.... (h. .1. "
Owners of properties In central sec
tions which are available for Improve
inert Willi skyscrapers, fearing the ef
feet of the new regulations, almost over
whelmed the Iturcaii of Buildings yes
terday with plans for monumental struc
ture", some of them comparable to the
rreatest piles of stone, steel and masonry
In the city. Twenty-six plans were filed
railing for an expenditure of f 22.S7J,nno.
There totals, added to those of Mondnv.
fhoM that durl.ig the last two days The number probably reached SiOO be
Pian have been put on record for thirty- fore the close of office hour. These
warehouse nnd hotel building Is planned travel cards were Issued to adults ne
at a -"St of $4,700,000. i coinpanying children, nnd one was nif-
' n. I. n. tn. nwittia. nrtrl li.r litil hrnofl .
From 12 tn Ml Mnrlrs lllah.
Tsterdav's nlannln call, tnr aun 1
everything In office, apartment, loft and
hotel construction from twelve to thirty-1
nine stories high, and costing from 1200.- '
O"0 ,o 14.7OO.OO0. The highest of the J
Plarned structures Is a hotel for the !
southwest corner of Broadway and
Fortyelghth street, to cost 11.900.000. .
Vnr tl.. .It. ., ,t it...
. ... , ..,,,, i,i,i iiuin ,
r.n I ark avenue from Fortieth to Forty-
nrsi street n thirty-two Htmy office.
warehous. and hotel Is planned at a
cost of $4,700,000. ,
A sixteen story ofTlce building I
Tianned for the southwest corner of Sev-
enth nvenn. nn,l Thirl..... 0.1, . !
... . .'...;'.:":: "
fnurth and Thlrty-thlrd streets, nenr
1 Thlrty-thlrd streets, ntnr
isiuii .venue, a sixteen siorv lort is
planned to co-r $1,430,000, At the 1
foutheast corner of Seventh avenue and
Thirty. sixth street a slxteeji story build
ing Is plnntied at a cost of $1,0,10,000.
For the northwest corner of Seventh ave
mie and Thirty. seventh street a sixteen
J'-'?-oUo'o"lnK ha" bP'n '""nn,d ,0 ""Cure tn the care ot' chimren nr th.y
t '.' ,,,?r:' "r "J!" block .Pnrk ' ,11" afternoon as a preliminary to
pile.
i.eiiiKii,n avenue, rnriy-seveutn - ..i,i.tinn of 1 nermanent com
rhls is a New 1 ork Central -pera- .""""i?.."1 ' relief agencies to look
and Forty
OHO Thlu
.u'"" '".." "'"V" ' 'I'VI:'-.
V " . tZ ""V" ZK..,lZ
th
" . ".'"" " " "" rT"
where this rnifer
during the last few davs would not have
th "effe , " r ,7nf defe tl. n w
restrictions George flacker m- of the
ir... ki'i.i..u 1.. .u. ..." u
the oillelals nf ih. nor..!! We iiMiMin,-.
probably would find sufficient objections
to in 1st of the nlnns tn hv th.m with,
drawn,
May llrilnee Assessments.
Iiml estale men said yesterday that
Pie adoption of the plan was the
mo. 1 effective action the city has ever
tnKen for the preservation of property
Mi in s and for the conservation of real
"" He Walter Stabler, comptroller of tha
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company,
t ,e greatest lender on real' estate, who
h is been an nctive member of the plan
ning commission, said that the adoption
f f 'he plan marks an epoch In the his
'' ry of New York city. Home real es
la', men said that the placing of re
s' ' lions on properties which up to this
l ne have been available for any type
ef inprovernent might have tha effect of
reihn Ing values temporarily, but every
one wns satisfied that tn the long run
U city will bo a great winner.
Interest from now on will be centred
Continued on Fourla Pag;
FULL QUARANTINE
to paralysis
Xo chll,,1,, PprmitlMl to
Leave City Without llonltli
Ccrtlflcntcs. !
POLICEMAN IH KS IX HAY
Mortality, Itprnrri in 21- Hours,
88, With 130 New Cusps
ltp)ortrd.
Fslllng only one short of the hlehet
death toll nn reconl, a disheartening In
crease In the number of new rases, pio
hlblllon of the departure from tho city
of children under 16 except after misti
cal Inspection, the death of :i policeman
working In a disease Infrs'ed district,
development of Info tlun In :i New York
child travelling In Itochestti- under a cer
tificate of health Issued by the Health
Department these were the outrtandlng
features of yesterday of the tlKht on In
fantile paralysis.
Although unimportant In Itself, the
Itochester Incident wax premium with I
5r"i'.r?r,lU"iV'.'l: . .X"I'!'. Tr.""'."Vl:
Oi Ul toil .tiatllBUii ntii-ri, iin;uriij n, itrti i
this city bearing a Health Department
'orl IdontA a uaarl n tr Ihal all "llii nut I
resided at premises In which ca.es f i
Celine.-..! la. l.tst-at hM fAtmrfl.. lit
found." and rec mmendlng that she "ventunlly. Including the divisional rup
should "be allowed full freedom of ply train and tho Third Held Artillery.
, the city with their children.
Firm Adolt tn Dir. "" slgninl his Intention of pay.
The pollreman to die of Infantile;1""' lh' New V"rk cnm"""""" " v""
I'araijPis as .Micrnei i.ane.v o ine iin
stieet station, He was the first adult
i w,se case the dliease resultcil fatally.
although others have been lepnrtcd to
be suffering with It 1-ihey was sta-
llnniil hi In .Inmrs slrpt tli.tilil. nn
the lower Hast Side, but had not per-
'"tally handled any iase.
I.ahe repotted sick yesterday morning
from bis borne. Ill ttedford nxemie.
Urooklyn. Me became parnlyrcd n few
hours later and was taken to the Xletho-
,, K,, p. ,,al , trookln.
wheie he died at in-1.1 XI
'S il,am'n '"''Hrnl men. -tntloned
" rnllroad terminals, ferries, tube terml-
lln, ( .vt.,v i:ng'and steamship lines.
P"1 ln n active day looking over young
sters for symptoms of disease and Issu-
,I)f lrnvH iard, OI1 th, .,ro,im.,nll of
Health Dpartment certificates setting
for,n ,m" ,nrre w'" Infection of In-
fn(1Ie pliravnl nt ,he plllc, or rcM.
dence. They quit at 6:30 p. M.. nnd
after that hour folks who had not taken
..niii..n ... nM.ti, i,..nd.rv
Governmental authority to take thelv
children across or under the river to
cw Jersey or oy ranroau in inner
States had to remain in town with them
0VAr MC,pl,on, w,r ln,,e In the
ca,e of lna j,rH,y t,ys working In
this city, or messengers just over from
Jersey city. Hobokcn and other places,
Ticket takers at the XIcAdoo tubes and
at n f'rries were permitted to lsue
MH....l.lln " ..la ... Ik.lt, All ...r.
"inn I u .i . n m i tunm " .i..,, i ...
I warned to get n clean bill of health cer
, tlflcate from their local Hoard of Health
so that they can present them to the j
Federal doctors when they apply for a
Government certificate on their return
j trips.
Prnlinlily .1.000 I anil Issued.
It was lenorted at Dr. Il.mks's otllce In
the old Post Office Building that 2.000
certificates had been Issued nt .1 o'clock
.... t,,.. v, i.a.i a iiitnl
! 1 i iu " r..-in..,.. iw.,...i
?' .'.' .. ......1 u.
boroughs and St were refused,
i total of 150 new cases of the disease
. or,e,i the greater city for
,;"n,v.four hours This was II nw
uuVhiK the previous corresponding
j,"." There weie 3S death., nil In-
e 'L.L., , tl,. r.e,ltnc dav
"" . - '
This was within one nentn i ine niKiirsi
previous dally record Thus far. since
,ne epidemic started, there have been
3 0911 raseH anil 47 deaths reported,
'of (hP ,w ,.a5fh 75 were In Brook-
u-n 42 in .Manhiittau, 1C In Cjueens, 12
in The Bronx nnd 5 In Blchmond.
. . t. ..1 ...... n.. Unnmn Mnn.
dfn unnmmi ., .......
f.;,. v one dav. the average
number for any one day, the average
t..,ir,,r k..m nimut "o
l.ooklnic to the Future.
Not only is Dr. Haven Knierson, the
Health Commissioner, pushing his de
triment to the limit In trying to stamp
out the disease, but h l looking to the
hoso'tals and
-n.V the care of all children .from the
time they have quarantine, Fifteen at-
t,le.l the conference.
ft lack of bed facilities In Brooklyn ortho-
Kedsral public health surgeons have
teen stationed at the following places
whrr. Government certificates will be Is-
sued:
I Hudson Terminal and Thlrty-thlrd
street stations of the Hudson and .Man-
hattan Itauromi 1 .ocrtuoii luurm, i. in-
land street ferry, Liberty street terry,
Chambers street rerry. enrwnpner sireet in denouncing tne extravagant tactics
ferry, the Twenty-third street ferries of ( 0f the Wilson Administration XIr. Allen
the Pennsylvania, Jersey Central, Lack- eltrs the appropriation of hundreds of
awanna and Krle railroads, Pennsylva- thousands of dollars tn "make the Mis
nla Station, Grand Central Station, West ,ourl Hlver navigable" as proof of his
Forty-second street ferry, Fall Hlver.
Providence, Metropolitan and Colonial
Una piers.
So Tickets Mold to Children.
All the common carrier companies en
gaged tn Interstate traffic lost no time In
cooperating with the Foderal surgeons
In enforcing the quarantine regulations
concerning children leaving New York,
Tit. officials of the Hudson tubes in
structed Its agents not tn sell tickets to i
children under 16 unless they have Oov- '
ernment certificates, mid oilier railroad
nnd steamship companies did the same.
Hundreds of vacationists hound for
country and atashnre with their little
Confirmed on Fourth Fag.
OlND NEW YORK PRESS
XMAS ON BORDER
FOR N. Y. MILITIA
Mnjor-Cfii. .lohn K. O'Kynii
Disposes of Hoportpil
Kni'licr Itetiirii.
t oi.rttni s. . v., juIt 2.v
ItenuMllons fur winter clothing ami
equipment were prepared tn-riay hjr
the qunrteminsleri' department
of the Mnxnrlitisrlts nncl New Jlex
Iro National ttnard on slntlnn here.
It wns nnnounrnl also that the
troops shortly will mutt to new
rump sites on the military reserva
tion. These motes were Interpreted
is being In prepnrntlon for n lengthy
stay on the horder.
I
YotiK Division, I
2R. XlaJor-(Jen ,
Hl'APqtMKTI.rtS Nkw
XI' Vtl.KN, Tex., July
John F. O'ltynn exprtsed the belief to
day that the New York troops would be
held on the border until after Christinas
He ilerlliie.l In Hneriit.n. forth. r imnn the
letiitth of stay by observing "Why.
we ve Just got here."
Tli nliiax unlld rxf tit. Jlil.lnn .
the aero twiundron. are to be brought here
was learned that Major '.laun Flores. I
,...... ......i.... 7. . . .... I
commandant of the main tronm ni He
Ninety liny of Serrlce f
With re-ranl to tho length of stay of '
the troops, Hils-lirn. ",coige It. Dyer
advanced the lew to-day that since all
the men erllsted for ni eireigenoy, nnd I
neatly all emergency 'ir.Wtin'nts In the
past have been for nlmly days, they
would not be entitled to complaint If
rot ent home pievlous to that time. At
the end of ninety days. If the Interna
t on.il crisis has passed, the problem
might present Itself In a different as
pect t'nless the Legislature passes a spe
cial art to coer the situation the New
Vork guardsmen will not be able to vote
If thry are not at home In Nocmbr.
While they would be able to vote If the
ccuntry were nt war there Is iiothln In
the statutes, which confers this right
upon soldiers sent out of the State only
, n,(.pnt(111 t war.
I7en. o'ltyan was asked toxlay whether
he caied to mnke nny statement con
.u. i ... i ...
pr Thomas Darlington. Jle would say
nii,i,,,. further ih.ni this "The caoins
of the New York division and the faclll-
lie, rhere lite atlsfacto,y to the officers
and the men of the division 1 know 7"- ' "' i " '"
from extracts whl.h appear in the New " " I"'""' t f t "lumbla ap
.. . . ...... i .u.. .1.. prnprlatlnns have been passed The
r.-,r,r.. tr- j... ...
conditions nie also satlsfnctniy to .Mnjor-
lien Tasker H. Bliss, assistant chief of
staff of the army, who recently vlslteil
the camps In company with staff offl-
cers nuit made nn exnaustive imesuss-
tlon of tlie conditions."
lien, tt'ltynn Knforces llnte
In enforcement of the order against
drinking liquor one captain of the Sev- f,,r Immediate action on child labor legls
enth ordered a caw of expensive wines, tlon. Hepubllcan Senators, who hid
whiskeys and cordials, sent as a present agreed to let the bill go over, notltled th
in the men. to b" destroyed and the iiemocrats. It was said, that they could
liquor poured out, not participate In any agreement for de-
Gen, n itysn wishes It to ie Known
that piesents or at oiioiic urinks. ei ner
to officers or men. are Inadvisable, since
It will be necersary to have them tent
buck or destroyed.
First l.letit. Max U. aiuer nt tne
rwenty-eignin Liuieu .-iaies ini.uni.v
hns been detailed ns adjutant to the Sec-
nnH ttrlmde. iindi-r Gen. Der The
proper rank of a brigade adjutant Is
major, but Mnc the tegulatlons do not
permit n regular army officer to be com-
missioned for nny rank In the National
Guard below that of lieutenant-colonel
l.leiit Walner Is serving as acting ma-
lor but at first lieutenant's pay
STUDENTS TO LEAVE MILITIA.
t oilette I nits Will He Clustered
Out for Kail Term.
Washington', July 23. All National
....,..i.,iu ..nn1o..s..1 ..f -..I.
hue student- will be mustered out of
tin Federal service In time for them to paraite grounos t in. nooseven passeu n.
pinreed with their school work nt the fore each company. A broad smile
fall teim, It was announced nt the wnr
Department to-day that the policy of
.1,.. it... .rnm.nt ivnolit h. to .Hahnn.i
such otganliatlons completely as units
of the National uuaru a nil 10 seei me
! ' . ... .. . . .
reorganization or ine rouege men 11110.
brandies of the officers' reserve con.
National Guard units composed of stir-
'dent, but who have not gone to the I
borilet prior to August 1 will not be
sent fnrwnnl, and similar organizations
on the border will be withdrawn on Sep.
tember I for mustering out unless some
ni vv emergency nrlses.
HITS WILSON EXTRAVAGANCE.
Henry Allen llrelnrrs President Is
llaniiernna Opportunist.
Kansas Citv. XIn.. July 25. Charac-
terlzlng President Wilson as an oppor-
lnst of the type of Intellect dangerous
, phice charge of the nation and his
A,mnstratlon as "an extravagant.
1 ttliiisv". nnsatlsfnclorv creation." Henry
, Allen, owner of the lnrnffn llrncnn, who
K back In the Hepubllcan ranks, made a
political speecn ni me iirHiumnii ruuy
1,1 Kansas City tn.nlght.
assertion.
"I rame back to the Republican party
as an American citizen and because the
leaders of the party are a capable sort
a great contrast from those to whom
Wilson looks for his advice, I esteem
Xtr. Wilson as a mnn, I believe he Is
honest. But being of a reluctant mind
lie has demonstrated he Is not capable
of meeting the great Issues that now
face this nation,"
Wilsons Drenched by Rain.
WashinuIoS, July 23. rreslilnllt and
.Mrs, Wilson were caught In a severe
rainstorm while golfing here to-day and
were drenched before thay could raach
shelter. They donned raincoats and con
tinued thalr fame.
BIGGEST MAN EATING SHARK
CAUGHT OFF JERSEY COAST
Long Beach Fishermen Bring 600 Pounder, 10 Feet
8 Inches Long, and Four Other "Tigers
of the Sea" Ashore.
lloi.MMVit.tr. N. .1.. July 25. When)
. , , . ,,n,i '
Capt. Jack Benson's crew of pound ,
seiners came In to the sta.tlon of the
ship bottom fishery on Ixing Heach, five
.nil.. .i,nv. ii..,-!, iinv.ii this morning
they towed behind their motor boat a
000 pound shark ten feet eluht Inches In
length, the largest captured since the
inanmters from southern waters began
their raid on the New Jersey coat.
Four other sharks weie In the boat,
,. of t,e!n nv, (00trr5 aXil two four
footers. All of them had been taken In
the niornltiK draw of the nets,
The ship bottom fishermen had a hlKh
ly excltliiR battle with their ferocious
game. The blK shark, In particular,
toro around at Krent rato when drawn
to the side of the boat. ('apt. flenson, a
inusi'ulur man, pounded It repeatedly on
the heail with heavy Iron bar. finally
dazing It enough to allow one of the
hands to lasso Its tall, Then the line
was made fast and the shark was towwl
to shore tall first. Had the spunk not
been beaten out of It It probably could
have pulled the boat out to sea.
All of the tle sharks were of one
varlety. blue with large spots, entirely
strange to the Jersey coast. They have
four rowK of large teeth. The big fellow ,
had an eighteen Inch spread f mouth
and was thirty Inches In dlametpr at tho
thickest nait of his body. He wan
shipped to Asbury Park for exhibition
I
i"
SENATE TO VOTE ON :
CHILD LABOR BILL'
At President's Knrnest He
tiuest. Cnueus Ilecides tt
Pass .Measure.
Wasiiinoton. July 25 Yielding loan,
urgent request from the President, j
Democrats of the Senate In ojucus to-,
night determined to pass the child labor 1
. .i . f ,....
bill at this session of tongrese.
The decision was reached after a long i
debate, during which several Southern '
Senators whose opposition forced the
measure out of the Imnerallve legislative
nniirra mine drawn UP several i1hh agv ,
vigorously nhjei ted to Its reinstatement.
in" nnai ueierminauon in ho nun- n
was reached without a retold vote. It
'i'Ti ,re., .,he .h'rJl1"" "
.l,l,.lt, ,.,,r Will f.
shipping measure will follow It In order
and the revenue bill will come net
Southern Senators Insisted that an
a.rr.,r,t l,.1 I,., ,n,l. tltt.t fl I. Ill
.,rtlK.in measure
.,..i., ti,i. it
h, the caucus Z vr dressing favorable
until Presi?..';, WUoirweni to The Cw
itol a week ago nnd made known to Ad-
ministration leajlers Ills emphatic desire
RJ.
.
BOOSWELT AT BOYS' CAMP
ttUU&i.VJULl Al JJUIS UAmr.
..
tuonei iinirm tenet, in irsm-
Inn at Kurt Terry.
fAMP ASI.lNOTON. C OUT KItnT.
Y.. July 2.V-The 1,200 cadets at 'amp
W ashlngton passed In review nt 3 o clock
hl afternoon before j ol, I heodore
'J"""'" J. '' A'l'lrew """. Jr. and
Co Wllloughby Walke and staff. The
cadets passed by In regimental parade,
Compiny G bearing, the colois for pro-
fle'ency In former drills.
The former President made a thorough
Inspection of the camp before the review
ami was later entertained at luncheon,
Many visitors west, hete fnr the occa
sion, nmong them being T Douglas Hob-
Inson and Charles 12. Nutter, both prime
movers In the movement for boys' tralu-
In enmns.
tie ore tne c.meis marrnen in ne
n,... u ,
even ranks of the young soldiers. Among
several of the companies the Colonel
spoke personally to some of the boys of
I" ,'V . :
, li..n sent to c.min be his friends.
'
nTnT nnT ,n . VTAW Tn CWWTt
xjIavL uUl lu, A X&Att IM Wbau.
Works From 7 A. M. Till II V,
M.
anil Doe. Hon.etTorU for Mnr,
Anion Blar-
PlTTSiiiino, Pa.. Julv 2S.
don rcNlde
OII IIIC ,Orill .sillie,
1 .Mary Blardon, his dutiful daughter of
13 years, labors fiom 7 A XI until
P XI. In n factory nnd then goes home
nt night and does the postponed house.
I work for her father, a stepmother and
four half sisters and three brothers Tho
!"....." . . ..."
wnsnilg sue noes hi iiikoi, 01 ine iat:-
tory her pay Is $1,50 a day Kvery cent
. ' 1 .
she earns Is given to her father.
When the Humane Society was asked
by a fellow working girl to aid .Mary '
It was learned that she had only 0110
' ,reHS aii i,H, received but one cent
H, e she had been working In the fac-1
, tory, over a year. mi lamer gave ner
the penny to celebrate the Fourth or
July.
DR. WAITE STABS HIMSELF.
Slayer In Death House Card Rlaaa
to Cat Cheat,
Ossininq, July 25, Dr. Arthur War
ren Walte, the New York dentist con
victed of murdering his wealthy father-in-law,
John K. Peck, stubbed himself ln
the chest last Sunday, It was learned to
night, His weapon was 11 sliver nf glass,
His Injury was so slight that Warden
Osborne refused tn dignify It by calling
It a wound, saying it was not sufficiently
Important to merit the attention of a
physician.
The glass was picked up by Walte In
the recreation plot where the Inmates of
tha deathhouie take their exercise. War
den Osborne says tha pleoa was an Inch
loni and "hardly thicker than a pin,"
nmtKinuMPTov. 1.. 1.. July 25.-A
nine nosed ehnrk six and a half feet
ha bten MM by a
terror of Its on species, was washed
upon the bench 200 yards from the
borne of Dr. Colin S. Carter, brother of
Mrs. Chailes E. Hughes, here today.
It Is of nbout the same site as the shark
whl;li Ksterbronk Carter, Dr. Carter' i
eon, encountered while canoeing a few
eek ago.
Meanwhile, the enterprising managers
of the llrldgchamvtnn Firemen's Car
nival, to open this week, are plnnnUig
to dcrlp profit from the shark epidemic.
David I ion net t . a Sag Harbor fisher
man, htought nrhore the carcass of nn
eliht foot monster from Gardiner's Hay
tho other day. Though the contract
taxed the skill of Sam Jones, the local
undertaker, the shark was prepared fot
burial and placed tn a specially con
structed xlnc lined coffin. The carnival
management Is now negotiating for Its
exhibition here, half the proceeds from
the sale of ticket at 10 cents each to go
to the Hrldgehampton Klre Department.
Sharks Quit Ilarana Harbor.
Havana. Julv :5, Fishermen who
n .,yng their trade have been navlwat-
nK tne. .hitherto shark Infested waters
,lt the mouth of Havana harbor and1
aiound the rocks of .Morro Castle re-
,,ort that recently no sharks have been
sCcn there. Their theory Is that the
Cuban nianeatem for some unknown
reason have migrated to the north At-
antic rout I
. i
KAISER'S SON-IN-LAW
INSANE, SAYS WRITER
I Hike of Rrunswiek Suffered !
Mental Collapse in Russia,
Ts Report.
I.ostxiN. July 2 (Wednesday!. 2:37
,,' riJprrf, frnA a ory regarding the
illness f the Duke of llrunswlck, the
Oermnn Kmperor's son-in-law, the story,
however, not lielnc confirmed from any
oUier source.
.'fhr Duke of Hrunswlck." aay the
correspondent, "who has been the victim
Profound melancholia since the early
! of the war. Is now declared tv be
hopelessly Insane. Is mental collapse
was tne result of a trying experience I
while commanding a detachment of (Ser-'
man troops on the Russian frontier,
men, all of whom v ere swallowed up in
a trracheious marsh."
The Iiuke of Brunswick as Prince
Kinet .ucust of Cumberland married
Princess Vl'.tori.i I.ulse. daughter tf the
liermsn Kmperor. at Berlin In .May, 1913.
Hi .March, ll'ls. a Copenhagen despatch
reported the Duke to be suffering from
"-nou, breakdown which was consld-,
'ncurabl,.
THREE WOMEN 00 TO ARCTIC.
sail nn srbnoner That Will Itnnt
for stefanason.
Sbatti.c. Wash.. July 25 -The new
power schooner Great Bear, owned by
,,. i.ou)f, ,nei a W,tP,. known Antic
navigator, anil John Borden, a wealthy
sportsman, sailed to-night for
tl"' ''""r North hi tho expectation of
making a Junction with Vllhialmur Ste-
fanss.n, the explorer, who went Into
the Arctic three years ago.
, yhf ,.rp, b .. ,,,,,. fnr'
the trip, will go rirst to Anadir Bay and
Indian Point. Siberia, and then along
the Arctic coast of Alaska to I tint Bar
row, llerschel Island and Banksland,
.V , . ,. "''"""""',
111. 1,1,1 l.nilA trnillnv .r,h,,nr l,,lr.r
i. - V .
Bear Inst year.
Aboard the Great Bear besides Capt
I. alio ami .Mr Borden are .Mrs. I .a 11;
and her flMer, .Mrs, Isabel Bohon : .Mls
Anita Allen, a niece of Cap! I.ane;
Itochester Slnunhter, a big game hunter;
It. (1. l'Vinald of Santa Barbara, Cal ;
i, iMiii KernocKer, aim .orris itioKiim
of Chicago.
SHOES TO BE LOWER.
lllah Top. fining- llul, Price linlns
I'll, ChleSKO Hears.
, Cmicm.o. July
Styles of sites,
.:..:.'.' ..'.V.'
the
, 1 t.lllllli.lt iiiii anrij 111-ieaii ui iiir
! . t. .. 1.1.1. ..... ,,i...i, . ... ...
.....nu..l. l.ll. ..... 1.1. ,.1". . ... w t . ..
cording to statements of manufacturers
1- . .1 1 ..i.. .1... .1
lliiols S,e Dealers Ach elation, Tlie
colors will be dull gray sand champagne.
line to me shortage 11 ilveKturrs.
The reliction as ., ..,1.. tint. H,.re
w. uld be 1.11 Incre.ise of from 2,1 to to
I'ei leill. Ill tor ,i.r ,, toiues uu fimi-
Ing w liner on account of the war In
Kurope, which has shut off tlie supply
1 f dyestuffs and Imported leather
"I 'riles the world develops .1 substitute
' for leather within two years America
will he the next wooiien shoe nation
..1.- t... .1
i-.tiii i-'oue p iMti.ru,, . 1 e iieciareu mill
' the country Is In the throes of a leather
! famine.
TO CUT U. S. WAR CONTRACTS.
Knalanrt Plana lllaurr Onttint nf
Monitions at Home,
j IttiNtHiN', July 25, In the course of a
Idlrciirslve debate on the questions of the
' war In th" House of Commons to. night
iDr Christopher Addison, Parliamentary
Kceretnry of Munitions, said In reply to
a question that tne Department nf Xlu
iiltlnns was endeavoring to reduce the
contracts for munitions in the United
States by increasing the output at home,
In one particular class of explosives,
he said, the department had undertaken
the oonstnrctlon and equipment of fac
tories to provide these explosives on an
unheard of scale.
Homesick Soldier Jtmtt sleeps.
I.AnKPo. Tex.. July 23, Private George
llrgnns of Carthage, Mo., who rame here
with the National Guardsmen from that
State, has been asleep since last Satur
day except for ellg-ht Interval!,. Phy
sicians say his condition Is caused by
nervouaneaa due to worry over failure
to receive a, letter from heme.
U.S. STEEL COMMON
EXTRA DIVIDEND
Holders of Stock (let llegu
lar 1 1-t and 1 Per Cent,
in Addition.
rteportlng the greatest earnings In the
history of the United States Steel Cor
roratlon, Its directors yesterday declared
an extra dividend of 1 per cent, on the
common stock, besides the recular Hi
per cent, on the common nnd 1 per
cent, nn the preferred, for the quaiter
ended June 30.
Dividend disbursements for the quar
ter thus will amount to 117,741,7:.". lie
sides this, J3,T4.",s:fi was charged off for
depreciation, replacements nnd slnkltiK
funds, and after these and all other
chat gen had been met $47,9111, R35 was
set aside ns surplus for the three months.
This surplus Is equivalent to 9.4 per
cent, on the common stock,
Net earnlnm of the corporation for
the quarter were 1 8t.12C.04S. Wall
Street had foreseen that a new record
would be set, but the wildest guess had
not ventured above $SO,0O0.tiO0 nnd the
general opinion was that the figure would
be J77.00n.noo. compared to $0,T13,fi34
for the quarter ended .March 31, which,
by the way, was the previous high rec
ord.
For the ilrst six months of the year.
nrfor. ti.. enmoratlnn has earned I
therefore, the corporation
S141.S39.4tT3 net. That Is more than lt
,lct nc.otn(. ,,.. twelve months since
j3n- w(tn PXCf.ptns of l?nt and
,;if)T cr.,oraton ms earned more In
,, ,, eHr tlmn net lncoms n nny
f , , organization. It has
.... ., , ,
, k , sx',nnths. ln'the
. . .. ....
snme perioo n nas lain Hsme " i-uiiuu
a sum equal to 15,8 per cent, of Its coin
tnon stock.
The detnlled report for the June
quarter, with comparisons with the cor
tesjKindlng quarter of 1915, follows:
Net r.rnlnis . H1.1M.0I4 tne. U3.I7S.,'33
J. ia.yj ,
siiikliK tuiul, etc
llilanie
!,( ii. i :iati i
a.'rm.w inc. M.1M.(s tha C.iucnsus campaign, It was an
.V.t .-ln.'.h.".!;,! Pounced to-night that the Czar'a tro.)t)s
iui,mr;
I'lfi-rrr,! fltiMrnilo.
n'm." inc. lliJ-Xsl
Common rtlTlilrnds.
Surplus .
The preferred
47,n.i.j Ine. Xf.SKWi
dividend Is payable
August 30. The books c!ce July 31 and
reopen August 11 The common dividend
Is payable !4eptemler 29, The Isioks
close September 1 and reopen Septem
ber 12.
The following table gives the com
parisons of the June quarterly earnings
with those of the previous quarters since 1
the beginning of the war In Kurope: I
June 3n. !! ,
March 31. 11 ,
lhivnihtr 51. tm
spteml-r jn, lll
Juno 20.
Mirrli 31. 1K15
flerrinhrr Jl. lttt
Keptrinlr 30, mt
The directors issued the
statement yesterday:
IM.lM.Ml
,
jJ''JJl t
!wn!nu
ls.4SJ.sa91
"'rtl
r.37.:
following
During the past quarter the plnnts
and properties of the Culled States
Sleel Corporation were operated at
their maximum capacity Both pro
duction and earnings e.vceeded thoe
for any previous quarter The i-everal
subsidiary compmies have many ex
tensions and Improvements under way
calling for the expenditure of a very
large sum of money Thee Improve.
menta are mainly fnr the purpose of
dherslfylng product, and
the economlo efficiency of
lnciealng
the nroner-
iiet
The unfilled orders on hand June 30.
191'i, amounted to ;i,ij0.45s tons,
which will occupy the mills for several
months. New business Is coming In
at a siitl-factory rate, many contracts
being entered for delivery of materlils
throughout 1917,
The following table rhnws the divi
dend nnd the dividend rate on Culled
States Steel common for the last ten
ears :
Yesr.
l!l
Is",...
Itlle. I 1 l'li-n.1
: w.iiv,.'!.vi
. ; I
5 10.lfti.OVI
Si Ml ,H
.. i U.IU.IU
.. i ...ii...t:.
s i",.n.vi:-.
s :vii;.t::.
.. I I.Vili.0".
l't 6.3i:,7v)
"
lJo .
111
'';
ll
PHI
Mi
I'nprecedented outlays for betterment
... .
exiennon nave m.irktd the corpora
tion's days of prosp.ilt.v It Is slid In
have autlioilzed a programme of new
const ruci Ion calling for the expenditure
of $75,ihlii,nno during the urivnt yeat
Included In l! was an item of !25,(i0ii.ii(iil
foi the erection of a tube plant at G.tr,
I tul. Vvnik on this was Marled I. in
M,rK , , , 1(e i,,,,,, ,,, ,. 11)ltk
the tlrst of which was expected to be
coinpieteii in alsjut fnuilenn months
Labor also has profited. Dn April 19
last tile corporation announced an In
crease of 10 per cent. In wages for lis
2:i0,illl0 employees, It was estimated
,lhls would add little shoit of $2(i,0U0,O(l0
1'" 1,10 Payroll. I'he Increase was the
," ,""i. 'io- im suuiiar pro-
portions having b.en ,,,ni
In
. .,, ...
aantiar.t.
,Jt" "l n"reak of th- wnr It Is 1
etimatei that foreign hohlers have His. 1
,,la,f "f thfir ""'"lings of the
' ,. ' !" '.. " "" '"'" '
. ' -mm.hu
. ,n". '."'"". .-'ock This had lie
X'u 5 U"S 5'Mr '" one
Theie was n persistent rumor in Wall
Street, which could not be continued,
that the declaration of rho extiu divi
dend was made afier a long uinumeiii
Ono dlrcclnr Is said to have thteatened
I,, ,1 l.la tw.i. II.
'e ' , iiimiiihk, wun 11 are nn-
1 meiise. on the market If the eommm.
! , . . .. .
1 "" ' l''" ''" not nt this llmo given
somelh tig out of the r.miiri:.!,!., a......
lugs
James A, Fnrrell. president. n tl,
chnlr at the meeting In Ihe absence of
Judge Libert II, Gary, .1. P .Morgan
i:,.re 1.' rtuk.r i,,,, 11 i,,.,'i 1,
I erl Wlnsor, George W Perkins, Samuel
I .Mather, Thomas Xlorrlson nnd Henry C.
'Flick were among the directors nt the
meeting.
DR. HARRIS DIES OF WOUND.
lloaton Physician, Who Khnt Illm,
to Be Held for Murder. Sa" '7. ,2 pr"ii ,. nCu
to He Held for Murder. t(mpled to ndure Mr. Ford to make a
Boston', July 25. Dr. Wilfred K. Har-I change In his peace plans, Dr. Aked an -
rls, who was shot last Tuesdny by Dr. pounced his resignation
Eldrldge Atwood, died late to-day. Ills I .
wife wns with him at the end, Dr. Har-1 fiTilBK-DEMOnRAT 2 (TENTS
rls failed to rally from the state of coma' ItlMUb'VlMVlj&Al, A Vra.
Into which l.e lapsed last night. Ha ""
made no statement benrlng on the case, Nt. Ionla Dallr Nrnspaper n-
according to the police. nnnnera Increase In Price.
An extra guard has heen placed over,
Dr. Atwood as a result of his display of St. Lorn, July 25 - The Si Louis
exliruie nervousness, the first li has (Jlodr Dreiocrif to-mormw will inrounee
shown since his arrest, He was not told an 'urrense In the price nf Its d illy edi-
of Dr. Harris's death to-night, The po- Hon in St Loui? from one to two cents
lice ssld that ha would be formally affective AufUM 1 , ,
chsrasd with Br.t tt.sra. murd.r la-mur- Tht High chi sf pr ini vsptr Is alven
r0Wl laa the oauaa ( tha Inereaaa.
CZAR'S troops WIN
ON BOTH FRONTS
Itout Turks In the Cnuensus
nnd Urenk Linsingcn's Lino
on Gnlicinn Border.
CLOSK TX OX ERZIXGAX
Moslem Army Flees ns Rus
sians Anpronch Fortress
From Three Sides.
lNnov, July !5. Russian advances
continue both against the German-Austrian
forces nnd ngalnst the Turks with
out showing any sign of slackening.
I'etrograd announced to-ntght that
1,000 pilsoiiers. four cannon and five
machine guns were captured In a drive
on the tront In the region of the Hlver
Sloncvke, a tributary of the Styr. The
artillery thus captured was turned
against the enemy, the War Office says,
and the Kusslan troops continued to ad
vance across the river.
Ilerlln was compelled to admit to
night that south of Stonowka nnd eouth
of lkrestchek. close to tho Onllclan fron
tier, the ltusslans had succeeded In pen
etrating Oen. von I.ln-lngen's first llnefl.
Hoth Ilerlln and V'leniin nnd asserted
earlier that the Teutonic tro.ps were
sector.
KfTorts of the Teutons to take the
counter offensive northeast of llarano-
,'"'" " '? e" on L 'u,sk "," nt
r,,ur P0'"'" ,he I nfP'tlhlans were un-
successful, retrograd asuerts. nddlnir
inai a furious battle Is raging near
i.vsmiy, wun tne result as yet undecided
Aviators Are Ilusr
The aviators of both amdes have been
nctive. Staff Canta n Herldxe nnd t.inii
ItltchofT, Hying over the German lines
west tif llurkanow, were killed when
their machine was struck by shell from
nn anti-aircraft gun. Two German
aeroplanes tlew mcr the Russian posi
tions north of I.utsk and dropped bombs,
They did no harm, tho ltusslans assert,
While events In thn wit Ihivm nv.,r.
L , . ..... - -
snnuoweo, lor a t ine, tha nrotrefw of
hl"r -orpd another coup In the east.
Alter the capture of Erxerum nnd
rreblnnd, the next natural objective was
I'.rzingnn, juu miles Hue west or i;rze
rtim, 100 miles due south of TrebUond,
and an important centre. To-night came
suddenly the news that the Hussltins arc
closing In on Urzlngan from threo sides,
while the Turks arc fleeing In con
tusion, iitianoonlng artillery, rltles and
stores.
There Is reason to believe. It Is said.
that the evacuation of Krzlncun has be
gun, and that the Turks aro making n
defence only to cover their retreat to
Slvas, 130 miles further west, where
their next stand must be made. They
r.opi-d to avoid n repetition of tho ills-
asters nt Krzerum and Trelilzond. when
"jeu "" ami "'ir n - ure -
trent became a rout. Apparently they
have failed again. Thetc Is no railroad
I from "Ingan to Slvas. j ' of . nnhvZt;.;n ,,(,V,,(,,;."
I II a. .Inn, Closing la. T'"' ""' brought up reenfortw-
l ments of infantry and guns, but trni
Gumlsh Khiinsh. forty-tlc miles north counter attacks everywneru were re
j of Krzlngan. Balburt, llfty miles north- 1 pulsed,
east, and .Mamakhatun. forty-flvo miles Two further Infantry attacks, pre
east, were captured after stubborn re- ceded 'by a specially lolent artillery lire,
j slstance Once In command of there were launched agant the centre of the
i points the ltusslans held the Jielghts, lino last night, but were alo stowed,
tin- principal roads of approach and the The Germans ,11,1 not succeed In reach
best natural defensive positions. The , Ing the British Wenches and their cua
i arc l now being narrowed rapidly. ualtlis wtte heavy.
I The 7liiii a tirreeindent at Itusslan ! North of l'ozli-re. In tho direction of
headqtiaiters quotes Gt-n. Michael V. , tha main load to Bapauir.e, the British
Alevleff, chief of the Itusslan r-t.iff. ns gained some Krouric! and captured two
'caving that the Kntento Allies are still , machine guns and a few more prisoners,
nt the beginning of their urci".-c j including tw.i batta.lon commanders.
"What has already been ilnne on tin-! The lighting in pozieres Is described
Anglo-Kreneli and Ituuian flouts." said as follows by nn officer who was
Gen. AleMelT. "Is merely the beginning, wounded In tli triggle
This is the forty -eighth day of the' .nly Sunday motnlng, at the mo
llu"l:in offensive, and th.ie s another ment the --ignal for tin-atta, k was given,
eoiiMdf rable period of tolerable weather aftei a ftlghtfully luli iii, bombanlment,
' before us The most Interesting and Hie Iliiglisli infamr nivheil foiwanl to
protltable pail of our work Is still the entrance of the village, carried it
ahead. ' In IIU.inlH iiml occupied the tlrst houses.
".My confidence Is basi-d on a two- At lt:3o oV,n k the Girmnns counter
fold foundation Kiret. the Allies aie .itt.u'kod. Then iue t was evtraor
advancing iinultaneoiisly and tlie enniy "dinaiy, iToulitles- In , ,ui-e t u lr couraga
l no lnngtr able to right us plen-meal
a las! year, second, the Germans liave
ued up the r reserves. Moreover, the
Intertill situation In Germany Is dc
1 liledly finical. All sources of lnfoimn-l
turn concur that disorders have stnrted '
In every quirterof the Get man I'niplte"
SEIZURE OF APPAM UPHELD.
tierman Prise Court Orders (told
Turned titer In llelelistaK.
Bum in-, via London, July 23. The
prize coin t has decided that the llldr
Dempster llii'T Appam, wlibh was cap
tured by the German raider Xloewn In
t'ie early pan of the year nnd taken by
a prize crew Into Hampton lto.ul-, is a 1
I'onil prize, nnd Hint ,'iccordlue the
p. ld on board lb" steamer, mnountliu:
to 739,000 marks 1 J I I.Ti'.h I , Khali ,e
turned over to the Kelihstng.
There have been various estimates of
' the amount of gold on hoard the Appam
B,,s 1. , ' .
s,..i, .. !
Tlu estimales touted from less than
$200,01111 to 111 hlvli 11 s $2 r.no.iinii, The
Ajipnm I" "till nt Newport News,
DR. AKED QUITS FORD BOARD.
Peace
Co 11 fere nee a "4'rowtl of
.......... ...!;.. n..n,rt
..... . t..i.. tie t-l.rt... l.
1" r ito.T. J y .. - Dr. J I ar , I
Al.eil has iinounced Ills resignation from
th 'Nrutial Conference for Continuous
Mediation." which Is the name of the
Ford peace commission fitting in Stock
. .... I A l.
IIOlIll liavniK lesifciieii, 11.. iii-it..,-,i
himself to-night of the opinion that the
iniereucii is t-oiiii. .-r.. .,. ,, ;i"" "i
crazy criinxs linn iireaiuns ine pi.iu
his failed, he nserlr
Iir Alien nun rrnr. I'.inuy ureen nairn
I of Welle-lny. the other American mem
( ber of the conference, sailed from Slock
, holm July 7 to consult .Mr. Ford. After,
nn hours ibik wun ma ninnuracriirer ,
this nflernnon, during which the former
GERMANS FLING
VERDUN mm
AT BRITISH LINE
till Available Eccnforce
ments Arc Hushed West
to Somme Front.
FURIOUS FIGHT FOR
rOZIERES STIL1V0N
Heavy Counter Attacks Art
Repulsed by Anzac Corps
In Village.
BAYONET AND KNIFE
TAKE RIFLE'S PLACE
Hand to Hand Combats
Amid Ruined Houses Fea
ture of the Struggle.
London-, July 23. Tho battlo on th
Sommo front which began Saturday at
midnight umt hos continued since with
brief lulls Is mill being fought by Brit.
Ish and Germans with the utmost stub,
born n esa.
An Indication of tho Importance th
Germans attach to defending their
third lino Is found In the report of Oen.
Halff, trio British commander, and In
tho German admission that troop
liavo been brought from Woro Verdun
In order to lend all pusnlblo strength
to Gen. von Klnem.
Tho British, although they aro mak
ing only slow progress, have liecn able
to repulse all tho llerco German coun
ter attacks nnd fully maintain their
ground, although Mm flKhtlng consists
largely of hand to hand conflicts.
Thero is no news us to whether tha
Australians, who hold Mm greater por
tion of tho Hinge of 1'ozleres, have
yet won the eastern iwrt. which Is on
the plateau dominating the village.
I
British Hold Villa.
The British nre tenaclouly holding to
me ruinous oi tm, village from which
, .),.. ,,r,... ,,. ,.,,.., ..., " V-V'
.,rtni.rf tir ,,.- . . '..' i """.l,le'r
' ? V.T. f.. , .. .''J:!':":'.1 ,'!a.t,ompt
"a,l Peru m.iuumii i.j rttur, as one,
could tell ftom the odor.
Knife mill llitvonet I'se4.
"Ilete the 1 ill.- plaved no part; tho
knife, bailout, nvolvei and grenada
were tin, only u.,ip,in ipnl The Oer
inniis empioveil a suit of long handlart
in.i,'e .iinlili'd vvitli 1. 11 1 Is such as an
pai h, ought use, not a Mihiier I saw
.1 Gettuan oill.'et' uing one of them on h
woiinileil comrnile, inn 11s . was In tha
net of stuMng 11 levolvir shot laid him
low liclde Ills llilenileil victim.
"Ill a ruined Iioum' a Gettuan squarl
wltli a niiiililiie nun was evtermlnated
to Hie la-i ni. 111 Willi the bayonet by
1111 Autrallaii pirty, which had fol
lowed them into llit- house I was pres
ent at .111 evcltlng due between two olll
i ers- an llng'Nli Lieutenant, who wtui
ihargliiK nt lln head of Ins men, and a
II is. hi, 111 r.iptain. The Lieutenant
yiruck Hie II. 1v.11 Ion a blow In tlie chest
with his Mvoril, and at the same In-
slant lm 10. eiv.-d a ball from his iu.
veisary s levolvir in tne stoniach. Ils
legaiiliiig bis sutTei.ngs the Lieutenant
had Just stnniith en,, ugh left to deliver
another b.ow. This proved mortal to
the llavai.iin. Infill innately thu Uu
tenant died hlnutly iifierw.ud,
Fluht Mill fioliiK On.
"Pressed hv stiong eneinv forces th
llngllsli had to tetreai lini ng the nfter
10011, but lliey Hirmigly counter at
tacked, and at 7 o'clock were mnstera
of tlllee-quarlers ot Ihe Vll'.ilge By last
ac.'ounts fighting was Mill going 011 In
the nortlivvtst pari of the village, to
the advantage of the Allies
Berlin's aecioint of the lighting along
0 Soninii front lie, .,ies that it took
-
I 11
the form of 11 l. i , . 1 1 attack by the
, i.',,.Tl..i, fr,,,,, i,,,i..P;,
M.tiirepas, a front ,.f s.u'iil, more than
fo,lr inilcs, breakup d iwn under tha
German II, e 01 In hand 10 hand lighting.
. .. f .,.,,.H. itie German official
- fta,(.,neni hav, ut Foureaux Wood.
- i.tl,1Kt.v.il nnd near liut'leinont,
niar
the
Brandenburg Gtendlrs and tho 101th
regiment distinguished them-
, elves.
The. French, who Ihrew slrong foroas
fl)rwnr.i ln a storming attack south 5
, th nomine In the F.strees-Soyecgurt
1 (.r0r were, the statement says, able
1 nllv t'n gain grminl temporarily south
1 of n-trres. otherwise the attack m
,,J.,1,.rl., wth heavy loss.
.
nn.aln's Pulley Unaltered.
.,.Tirn vi. ( v 11 1 ondon 1 ilv 'I-
1 i,Ti.iion,vp. ivi.i r.oniioro, .ruiy 28.
Itussia h foreign policy wilt not underwo
my change under tho direction nf Borln
V Stunner tlie successor tn Serxlua
Sazuioff In the Mlnlstrv of Foreign Af.
fMf"' r5r,"t,"? f,nni!M2fl,mf
mart. o-rtay by Mich..) V, KudiUftsj
1 the PraalAent xt itx Dutu. 3
