!
'FINANCIAL EDITION
iJltitatx
NIGHT
EXTRA
imnttg
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II.-NO. 270
PIIILADEIiPHIA, "WEDNESDAY, JITIiY 2G, 1910,
CorijianT, 1016, m rnt fcsuo Lniou Counter.
PRICE ONE CENT
VICE SHIELDED
BY POLICEMEN,
SAYS GIBBONEY
Politicians Also Aided
in Protection, He Tells
Grand Jury i
AUSTRALIANS BEARING BRUNT OF FIGHTING ON THE RIVER SOMME
BiLB JVHslvflP&' HfcLfet4H!Nt 4te9E. vPt illLEslflr tJBvViw'f, 4fmBWBTR Ttt Mh3ML r .HfcwPjy iL'flLJ!dML3lvlHflp'felM4 TK-ff iBrjC
HPVVjHrK. Jv Mk hLJbV JBVPjHkLflEkHLMB VJHK pMHHb JjfinVMMb Vw flff" HHfe S IHflr V VPE jJB f BMilBHL LbWY VtSoSLHlf 1hHbT
PHV jw4 4-HK EHBHBp tfjrffTWFjBBB Bi Wcift jAJQiliLjJBMfc' w3WBpWmBmiBBFSwWBl Mi ffiS MBBfcJ.BBBK7MwWlfc HKMMp9wf
B.Mm Jl -,. j jti F?Ster'BL!5(Btai VVwQHl nhVsU3Lfl 9flBB0h3tadB!4HB uSr MMBPBBBiBErfftKf.. fBl HHSbB
MflHHpHct' r-SBESKB9KSSBS&SmBBs3 y fi v-Sf9Bwf Si THr.SlK&vHftsiHCjjB. iSwryfc Tifci fftBh f jw owfilSMiswa
9EF tBsFHB?3? &mIBKf I fHByHy BBbJmJ liJBBBinmLiff j l xx Jft mX i 4i W'HflPF BBBBBpLnlHH0?iBHr
BKI9HH9raflnHiBB" K9S39H9BfiHBiBS3KflK 4 iBiHHPjXrfiPltewS8s$? fevfln e$BiE& y& 9n9nlBHHB 5
mp kMw5jhrk -. MfWP"BBf jBobeSBS &Sk9Ki 1Mb HMHflflB tT "SilBPLHBiirTiSHIBrTBhffcfiiw JHuSHMcJPHB&MBHSr sLbH
HE jf Uflp jaflEPfcoBw BHHfB.usl8&?r " DKHHf jf MflHHE?!$feWt ,B 'tflHHPVHKE. 1H
9 mPKPA jBjt s iSftESi 3T ijf PBvHIBNbIRjIHHIk vBB' v HBtEtfJHHPfrH
This picture wns tuken n few weeks ago at Marseilles, France, whero tho
they were sent northward to the firing line. The troops were brought from
12,700 GUARDSMEN
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN BORDER CAMP
a '
'Mobilization of Seventh Di
vision Troops Completed
Near El Paso
CLASH OVER SURGEONS
The temperature- In the tents of the
Pennsylvania guardsmen encamped out
side EI Paso was 72 at 8 a. m. (Phila
delphia time). At the name hour the
temperature in Philadelphia was 77.
By CARL L. ZEISBERG
Evtnlna l.cdocr BlattCorrtaponiient
CAMP STEWART. KL PASO, July 26.
Mobilization of the Seventh Division.
Pennsylvania troops, was completed here
today, when two battalions of the Second
IteBlment of Philadelphia and ho Sec
ond Brigade staff nrrhed from Camp
Pershing. Twelve thousand seven hundred
Pennsylvania troops are now under canvas
on a solid two-mllo front here, the concen
tration Including the three brigades of In
fantry, one regiment of cavalry, one regi
ment of artillery and auxiliary corps.
Brigadier General Price's Philadelphia
troops are facing General Charles M. Clem
ent's division headquarters. The First and
Third Regiments completed tho movement
frpm Camp Pershing several days ago.
The Pennsylvania concentration camp is
about four miles from lort Bliss, and per
haps 12 miles from CI Paso. Colonel
Hamilton D, Turner, commander of the
Second Regiment, In occupying the site
laid out for his organiaztlpn today, has
prepared for the possible recall of tho Sec
ond Battalion from the Big Bend,
Unveiled intimations of possible trouble In
the Seventh Division, as a result of the
numerous conflicting orders received In con
nection with the status of brigade surgeons
here, are heard on all sides today. Adjutant
General Stewart, at Harrlsburg. It appears,
made the last order, directly concerning
Major George S. Crampton, First Brigade
Eton, read that Crampton should become
regimental surgeop of the Third Regiment.
Division headquarters, however, super
Maes, (hat order1 with another, which sends
Crampton home, and he Is today preparing
to leave Immediately, The brigade sur
geons, it appears, were, mustered in bymls
take at Mount Gretna.
Several days ago a War Department or-
Continued on rare Fife. Column One
THE WEATHER
Plans to have a Philadelphia sane and
sanitary are 'under way.
Such a, condition Is welcome, especially
at this time of year, when cleanliness Is con.
duclve to coolness. In rubbing out the black
spots (t would be well to use the very best
materials, so thaj the dirt, instead of merely
fading slightly to return again, will be
eliminated for good.
Elbow- grease is also essential. The house
keeper who merely skims over the surface
never does a good Job. She is kept scrub
bing all the time. Incidentally her guests
and members of the family are liable to
notice that the place is iuH as clean as it
looks. Perhaps If the town were clean
and the air clarified It would chase away
this humidity pest that defles the police
and sticks around In spite of the highest
authorities.
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Un
settled this afternoon; probably fair to
night and Thursday! slightly wanner,
but tees humid Thursday; gentle,'south
erly hinds. ,
LENGTH OK D.W.
Bun rise. .. 4 53 a tn IMoon rlwa. .. 129 a.m.
Sun st . 7.20 pm IMoon souths 8.21 a.m.
DELAWARE BIVEB TIDE CHANGES.
QHESTNUT STREET,
row water man (Low water. . . 8,30 p.m.
Blah water JPJ? .lHIh water .11:28 p,m.
' TEJIfEKArcnE AT EACH 1IOUH.
TTTiri'Jinl i i
11 x i .iT
41
I
WTi9l si ' 831 siT ss I WssF
IOSI AlfP gPTJND
11KH AND KJM Lot, batween Atlantis City
uJ JUronwDton. ojm PerUse aulunwbtlo tin
ana rial . iMUfiu
rtdarq I! returaad tu 1941
K Brsa .
campaign on tnc
POZMtES IN BRITISH HAND
ERZINGAN FALLS; TURKS FLEE;
RUSSIANS CROSS STYR RIVER
English Capture Important Position at
Junction of the Albert-Bapaume
and Thiepval-Longueval
" " 'l " Highways' -
Czar's Troops Push Advance in Volhynia arid Carry Fight
to Soil of North Galicia Great Ottoman Strong
hold Occupied by Forces of Grand
Duke Nicholas
Tho important village of Pozicrcs, situated at tho junction of tho Albort
Bapaumc and Thiopval-Longucval highways, is at last in British hands. The
British wrested the village from tho Germans after three days of terrific fight
ing, in which the bayonet and hand-to-hand contests played a conspicuous part.
Australian troops, veterans of the Dardanelles campaign, clinched tho victory
in u uiiui ussuuib in uiu western jiuri, ui iiiu anuuyiiuiu, uriviiir uiu xuuiuns
from the few houses and ruins they had still retained. The capture of Pozicrcs
was admitted by tho Berlin War Ofifce.
The capture of Poziercs endangers the German forces in the salient between
rh'iepval and Pozieres. Tho British have already launched a westward encir
cling movement, menacing their opponents in this loop of the line. A complete
abandonment of this curve y-the Germans is expected. A similar retirement
is probable east of Thicpval in view of strong British assaults now under way
in that direction.
A lull marks tho line in tho section of the Sommo held by the French. No
infantry attacks are reported by the Paris War Office in that sector.
The great artillery duel on the Verdun front is continuing without inter
ruption. On tho eastern front tho armies in Volhynia are again pounding away at
tho Austro-Germnn forces and further progress is reported along the north
eastern frontier of Gnlicia.
Southwest of Bercsteczko, on the Styr river, fighting is ir. progress on
Galician soil. The Russians have now thrown a ring part wa;- &Wjm,' t.e city
of Brody, which is defended by the army of General Boehm-EnwJit " tiStottjf
is in progress less than twelve miles from tho place. Brody lie-, of- lin Gafiarrw
front and is on the railway line running from Bovno to Lcmberg, tho Galician
capital.
Tho army of Grand Duke Nicholas continues its inexorable advanco in the
Caucasus, driving tho Turks before It in precipitate retreat. Erzingan, the greut
stronghold defending tho Turkish center in Armenia, has been captured
by tho Russians. The Grand Duke's forces have penetrated 200 miles into
Turkish territory and are striking for the eastern tertr.tnu? of the railway to
Constantinople. German officers leading tho Ottomar- trcops are unable to stop
their retreat because of the exhaustion of their ammunition supply.
ANZAC MEN CLINCH FINAL.
VICTORY AT POZIERES AFTER
72 HOURS OF FIGHTING
LONDON, July ?6, After 72 hours of.
savage fighting (he British Jiave succeeded
In occupylrg all of the vfllagv of Pozieres,
on the -Somroe battlefront.
News of the complete capture of Fozlcres
was contained in the official report Issued
by the British War Ofjlce at noon today.
The Germans, occupying stone houses
which, had been turned into fortresses,
fought stubbornly, bi)t were finally driven
3Ut after the Australians had secured a
lodgment In the western part of the village.
Uge;
(Pozieres is about six miles southwest
of Bapaume. ' It lies at the Junction of the
Albert-Bapaume and Thiepval-Longueval
roads,)
"Westward of Poilercs territorial, troops
captured two strong- German trenches. Th
prisoners taken inc)ud five- officers. '
Heavy cannonading on the Somrou front
continues.
The follvwlng Is the text of the Wat
Office report:
"The whole village of Pozieres la ndw n
our hands. Westward of the village tei.
ritorlali advanced, cupturln,? two strong
trenches A number of prisoner wtre
taken, Including fle officer. Elsewhere the
positions are unchanged
flghtlr.v has continued, notwithstanding
fog and rain and mud. At times the artil
lery duel ta-ie raged through thick weath
er, when the targets were obscured by mist
"The German, using fresh troops, ruahtd
Cgatloutil pa aJM . CJtn,a O
women and children decorated the British Colonials with ilowcrs just before
Egypt, whore they were allowed to recuperate from the long and disastrous
uaiunou reninsuin.
-f
RUSSIANS ENTER ERZINGAN
AFTER TURKS ABANDON
ARMENIAN STRONGHOLD
FETROGRAD, July 26.
Erzingan, the great Turkish stronghold In
Armenia, was captured by the Russians .on
Tuesday,
The capture of Erzingan was announced
by the Russian War Office today.
The capture of Erzingan was made cer
tain by powerful blows struck" by the Rus
sian army of Grand Duke Nicholas during
the last fortnight. The Turkish armies In
the regfon of Erzingan were put to flight,
leaving the way open for the occupation I of
the city.
The four main fortresses In northern and
central Armenia are now In possession of
the Russians Erzerum, ,Treblzond, Balburt
and Erzingan.
Two Russlai armies advanced against
Erzingan, one from the northeast and the
other along the Euphrates valley The Turks
attempted to stem their advance but with
out any success.
Erzingan la SO miles southwest of Erze
rum and has a normal population of 23,000,
which ha recently been greatly Increased
by hordes of refugees.
The Turks destroyed soma of the mili
tary work and stores of supplies before
their flight eastward.
Grand Duke Nicholas," army ha now
Cocllounl oa Fax Two, Calunui One
CAMDEN JAIL-BIRD,
THOMPSON, CAUGHT
NEAR PITTSBURGH
Companion of Wilson Ash
bridge in Break for Lib
erty Recaptured
FACES MURDER CHARGE
Georgo B. Thompson, Camden Jall-brcnk-crr'
who- -with Wilson Ashbrldgo'-'-ehot' his
way to liberty, was captured today In
Washington County, 20 miles north of Pitts
burgh. Ills arrest makes complete tho re
covery of those who escnped from, the Cam
den Jail on July 17. His companion, Ash
bridge, was captured tho following day in
Chester.
Thompson probably will bo brought to
Camden at once, unless he Insists on ex
tradition pap'ers. However, it Is thought
ho will follow In the footsteps of his pal,
who went meekly enough after his arrest
In Chester.
Prosecutor Kraft already has said that
Thompson when caught would bo charged
with tho murder of Turnkey Isaac Hlbbs
and with Intent to kill Keeper Ellis, who is
slowly recovering In Coorer Hospital.
Ashbridgo has confessed that he did the
shooting with a pistol his wife procured for
him, but the Xew Jersey authorities
recognize Thompson as the brains behind
tho Jail delivery, and will hold him equally
responsible,
THOUGHT HIM CLEVERER.
The capture of Thompson is a relief to
the Camden police, who hove never let
up in their pursuit of the man; but at the
same time It Is rather a disappointment to
their estimate of him. They had thought,
him cloe:er He was In Jail for forgery,
and once he was out pfjt they expected him
to leau them a merry chase?
When Thompson and Ashbrldge escaped,
the nlghi of "June 17, they came leisurely to
Philadelphia, went to the West Phlladel
phth station to meer Mrs. Ashbrldge, failed
to find her, went thence to Broad Street Sta
tion and there she was. Thompson bade
them good-bj, announced New York as his
destination and dlsappeated.
The police always regarded that as a
bluff to throw Ashbrldge off the track, for
they gauged Thompson well enough to
figure that he knew Ashbridgo was too
clumsy to keep out of the police tolls long.
NOTE A BLUFF.
Taking Thompson alive is proof now that
the note found In his cell was a bluff, pure
and simple. In that note he said that it
located he probably would be taken a dead
mar. and he asked that his body be turned
over to the University of Pennsylvania,
saving only enqugh skin to make a binding
for a small New Testament he wanted his
wlfe a woman- of the Buddhist faith, to
get. '
The police, who knew Thompson was as
sane and clever a man as they had ever
handled did not credit the note.
Sim.eAshbridge was taken back to Jail
anil his wife held to answer to the Grand
Jury for helping him escape, not a word has
been printed of Thompson.
Not since his escape were there the
usual reports of finding him, such as Is so
characteristic when criminals escape.
Only this afternoon when Chief of Detec
tives William Schregler satlsfled himself
that he finally had hi man, did he allow
the news to be given out.
Thompson was using his own name when
captured. He had a spring of handy aliases,
his favorite being Frank Murphy. HI apt
pearance wa ordinary, too. The Camden
police have nqt-yet given out the detail ot
hi capture and arrest.
The time of the shooting occurred Just
after the prisoners had been locked In their
cell for the night Hlbbs, the turnkey,
was standing outside In the corridor when
Ashbrldge called him. Hlbbs, an old man,
was known affectionately among the prig
oners as "Dad."
"Oh Dad, come here a minute; I want
to talk to you," he said.
Hlbbs went, thinking he was going to get
a package Ashbrldge held In his hand. A
he nearrd, the package wa uncovered,
and It la said AshbrltUe shot him. The
slayer tben took the dead turnkey key,
opened the door and, with Thpmjson, locked
the door again and went out.
QUICK NEWS
PITTSBURGH. . 000000100 1 10 1
PHILLIES l8t(3-. . 21003100X 7 11 0
Adams, Ctrpenttr nml Schmidt; Atcxandcr and KHlefer.
ATHLETICS.... ,
ST. LOUIS g-.. , ' , ty V-
.
NATIONAL LEAGUE .
ST. LOUIS, 1st E....0 10 0 10 0 1 -BROOKLYN
O OOOOOI O -
Meadows and Gonzales; Smith and Meyers.
ALEXANDER CONTINUES
PHILLIES r h o a e
P&skcrt.cf 1 1 2 d 0l
NiehoMb 113 3 0
Stock, 3b 13 2 3 0
Good.rf 1 1 3 0 0
Whlttcd, If 0 3 10 0
Ludcru3,lb 0 0 12 0 0
Bancroft, ss 12 2 5 0
KHlefer, c 1112 0
Alexander, p 12 15 0
Totals ? 1-1 27 18 0
EMPIRE CITY RACING RESULTS
First race, 2-year-old3.' -with ?800, 5 1-2 furlongs Hanobala,
112, Butwell, 11 to 5, out, von; Courtship, 105, Ball. G to 1, 6 to 5,
out, second; King Baggot, 120, Toplin, 1 to 2, out, third. Time, 1 :11.
WILSON RENAMES HAMLIN FQR RESERVE BOARD
WASHINGTON, July 26,1 resldentWilso'tfthis .afternoon acnt
to the.ScaateJb.aQQJainatioiV.of Chjy.-l;s S-Uamlin to succeed hunself
ns a member of the xedernl Reserve Board-
INDIANAPOLIS BANK CASHIER BEATEN AND ROBBED
INDIANAPOLIS, July 2S. After two automobile banditi today
had assaulted Harley B. Tillman, cashier of the East Tenth Sticct
State Bank, rqndering him unconscious, theg stole $2000 and osuipea
with police in pursuit.
GARMENT WORKERS REJECT SETTLEMENT
NEW YORK, July 26. Members of tho garment workers' union at a meeting
today rejected the agreement signed by their otllcers and by tho shop owners. The
strlko of about 60,000 men and women operatives continues in force. The meet
Insr was attended by wild disorder, and speeches were mode charging ofllcers of
the union with having sold 'put tho members.
BRITISH ARMS CONTRACTS HAVE CANCELLATION CLAUSE
LONDON, July 2Q. In new cdntrocts made by tho British Government Depart
ments for material concerned with the war there appears a clause providing that
such contracts may ba canceled at any date after September nest.
PRESIDENT BRITTON, OF COTTON BELT ROAD, DEAD
ST. LOUIS, July 26. J. II. Brltton, i)resldenof the St. Louis Southwestern
(Cottno Belt) Railroad, died here today.
CADDIE MASTER KILLED BY TRAIN AT EDGE HILL
EDGE HILL, Pa.. July 26. Ills body mangled and his face unrecognizable,
Albert Buck aged 30 years of Edge Hill caddlo master at the North Hills Country
Club here was found dead at tie Edge Hill crossing on tho .Reading road at
3:30 this morning. He hod evlaently been struck and killed by a train. Buck
was married and had three children He Is known throughout tlio section.
BIG NAVAL BATTLE BREWING IN THE NORTH SEA
LONDON, July 26. Indications that another sea fight Is brewing In the North
Sea are contained In the following Central News dispatch received here today:
"West of Jutland something Is going on or is being prepared for in the North
Sea, according to Increasing activity of ships and aircraft. Fisherman returning
from the North Sea say they never saw ouch activity. Firing Is heard, but no
actual fighting has been reported."
U. S. TO ASK BRITAIN WHY CITIZEN WAS BARRED
WASHINGTON, July 26. Great Britain will be asked by this Government to
say why she refused admittance to Thomas Hughes Kelly, of ey York, treasurer
of Irish relief fund; his wife and his assistant, Joseph Smith, it was learned today
after receipt at the State Department of a report of the Incident from Ambassador
Page In London.
"NOTHING TO THE STRIKE" OF INSURANCE AGENTS HERE
Clarence O. Pratt, strike organizer, who led the Philadelphia car strike In
1909 and 1910, is in New York directing the strike of the agents of the Prudential
Insurance Company, He Is organizer of the Insurance Agents' International Pro
tective Association. He announced yesterday that 400 agent of the company in
Philadelphia would walk out, but at the company's offices there was said to be
"nothing to the etrlke." Only a few men tailed to appear for work, company
officials said,
' - mil i ' i n in i
BRITAIN PLANS TO BUY FEWER MUNITIONS IN U. S,
LONDON, July 26. During a debate In the House of Commons last night. Dr.
Christopher Addison, Parliamentary Secretary of Munitions, said his department was
endeavoring to reduce contracts for munition In the United State by increasing
the output here. In one class of explosive, he said, the deportment had undertaken
the construction and equipment of factories to provide these explosives to unheard
of quantities.
SIXTY DUTCH BOATS REPORTED HELD BY BRITISH
BERLIN. July 26. At a meeting of th Dutch Shipowners Association, held at
The Hague, says a dispatch to the Overseas Agency, a resolution was adopted pro
testing against the seizure of 64 fishing beat by the British, The Dutch Foreign
Office, it la said, was urged to Intervene.
I
WINNING, BEATING PIRATES
PITTSBURGH r h o a n
Baird,3b 0 2 20
Carey, cf 0 2 4 0 0
Wagner, ss..'. . .. . 0 0 5 1 o
Hinchman.rf 112 0 0
Former, 2b 0 1 l 2 1
Costello.lf 0 110 0
Johnston, lj...,.. 0 3 3 0 0
Schmidtc 0 0 1 G 0
Adams, p 0 0 0 10
Carpenter, p 0 0 0 0 0
'
.Totalsi... 1 10 24 12 1
i
"90 PER CENT GAINED
TOLERATION OF OOPS"
Conditions .Responsible for
Such Types of Slayers as
' "Doggie" Miller
ROTAN GOES TO MAYOR
D. CLARENCE GIBBONEY
Head of the Law and Order So
ciety, star witness today before the
Grand Jury in its investigation of.
vice conditions.
Policemen and politicians protected vice
in this city.
This .declaration was 'rondo bj D. Clar
ence Qlbbonoy, head of tho Law and ,6rdex
Society, when ho appeared before th
Grand Jury today and gavo a detailed 'ac
count ot the vice conditions prior to the
big raid "of Saturday, July IS.
lie also asserted that toleration of vicious
resorts and gambling places was the sdme
as protection nnd contended that the condi
tions were responsible for such types ad
"Doggie" Miller, who was electrocuted Jaat
week for the murder of two policemen.
To show tho effect of such conditions,
Giliboney said that the son of a prominent
Philadelphia family married the propri
etress of a resort against the protest of hi
relatives and friends.
The Law and Order president said It waa
absurd to think that tho proprietors of dis
orderly houses or gambling resorts would
go to the expense of fitting up their estab
lishments without being assured In advono
of prptectlon.
TWO DEVELOPMENTS.
The declarations made by Glbboney an!
the hearing of J. S. Knight, Jr., and Sam
uel A. Dougherty, of the Transcript, charged
with criminal libel by suspended police Cap
tain Nicholas J, Kenny, wero the two big
developments of today. Neither Knight nor
Dougherty appeared and detectives were
sent to search for them.
Glbboney followed District Attorney Ro
tan on the stand before the Grand Jury,
The latter, after outlining the plan of pro
cedure To the jurymen, went Immediately
to a meeting ot the Mayor's cabinet It Is
generally believed that he laid the question
of the vice situation before them. Mr.
rtotan declined to explain the object of his
visit to the cabinet.
The Grand Jury quizzed several person
who are familiar with the vice conditions,
including Miss Mary Gillette, secretary ot
the Travelers' Aid Society, but directed th
questions chiefly to Glbboney, who was oa
the stand for more than an hour,
NAMES GIVEN TO JURORS.
Asked on leaving the room what he had
told the Grand Jury, Glbboney said:
"I gave the Grand Jury the most compre
hensive tew of the entire vice situation la
the city that has ever been laid befor
It. When I left the witness stand I waa
firmly convinced that the. Jury which la
conducting this probe la composed of men
who wilt go to the very bottom, of t TW
will not be a two-day affair. I base my
opinion on the questions which were asked
me by the jurors. I took up eery form ot
lce prevalent In the city before the raid.
I touched upon gambling conditions, speak
easies, disorderly houses, bookmakers for
horse racing and all the disreputable re
sorts. "I furnished the jury with name an4
specific Instances. The names of the pro
prietor and locations of score of houses
are a matter of record. A list 1 noir being
prepared for the Grand Jury."
Asked If police and political proUctlo
of these resorts was a fact and if he toucb4
upon them in his remarks, Glbboney re
plied; TOLERATION AND PROTECTION.
"I told them that the person who operate
the various dlvs are assured of some kbut
ot protection from soma one or they wouM
not open their places for two vceka ot
two year. At least 95 per cent of ttu,
vice dens In thla city. I believe, have Um
operated with souse asauranc or preUctio
arrange through, the S w Wtfmm
of the variQM. plac tse yrnwHja
II H " " im ul
sHs ..i ..JB Ij
1 V"' - ''?
b i t v
if Jkt. 4tl&iHl W
ifiHK.t HHi ihk- r
Mk Vw ' )' 1te&
'I&bHw li
J I
