COMMENCED AUGUST 8, 1837.
ST. JOHNSBUEY, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JULY 26, 1916.
VOL. LXXIX, NO. 51 WHOLE NO. 4323.
Til" Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
HOT WEATHER GOODS
Our store is full of Hot Weather Clothing.
Will mention only a few of our comforts for hot days.
SPORT and NEGLIGEE SHIRTS. Prices $1.00 and 1.50
BOYS K. & E. BLOUSES, including a handsome line of
Sport styles. Prices 50c and $1.00
All Kinds of AUTO DUSTERS in Gray and Tan colors.
Prices 1,25 to 4.50
SWING and COUCH HAMMOCKS.
WHITE TENNIS SHOES.;
STRAW and PANAMA HATS.
SILK CAPS.
Prices $1.00 to 12.50
Prices $1.00 and 1.50
Prices 50c to 7.50
50c and $1.00
ONYX HOSIERY in Colors, White, Champagne. Palm
Beach, Gray, Navy, Black and Tan.
NECKWEAR, Silk and Wash Goods.
Prices 25 and 56c
Great Reduction in Prices on All Our PARASOLS.
The Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
A BANK,
Lllxe the Individual, Must Live
and Be Known By Its
Reputation
We endeavor to be ravorably known by:
Careful Management insuring Safety of Principal.
Liberal Dividends to Depositors i compounded semi-annually.
Prompt and Courteous attention to business, whether by mall or
at our window.
And to do our part to assist the small Depositor to a start to
wards habits of thrift To this end we receive deposits of J1.00 and
upwards.
Passumpsic Savings Bank
St. Johnsbury. Vermont
I
AUTO MISHAP
AT HATCHERY
Philip Beck Sustains Fractured Arm
When Packard Car Plunges Into
Sleeper's River
2 OTHER BOYS UNHURT
Clayton Silsby and John Lee With In
jured lioy Get Their Swim Ahead
of Time When Bank Near Edge
of Koad Gives Way and Big
Car Topples Over.
An auto accident which resulted in
a broken arm for Philip Beck and a
somewhat damaged machine occurred
about 6:30 Monday afternoon when
the seven-passenger Packard driven
by Clayton Silsby, age 14. and carry
ing Philip Beck and John Lee went
over the bank into Sleepers river on
the road near the fish hatchery.
Clayton Silsby. the son of C. E.
Silsby, in company with Philip Beck
and John Lee, was on his way to
go in swimming when the accident
happened.
They were traveling at a moderate
rate of speed, when on the turn before
reaching the fish hatchery they met
a team and turned out to go by. As
they did another car swung around
the bend Just ahead of them and in
turning out they went too near the
edge of the river bank, which gave
way. As the car started to turn over
young Lee Jumped clear of the car,
the other boys stayed with it and were
fortunate in escaping severe injuries
as the heavy machine turned ovei
once and a half before stopping on its
side on the river bed, in about two
feet of water. '
Philip Beck sustained a fracture of
both bones of the left arm, and was
taken to Brightlook hospital where
the fracture was reduced. Silsby was
slightly cut by flying glass from the
windshield and Lee was uninjured.
The car, after being righted was
driven out of the river under its own
powe. The windshield and mud
guards were smashed and the body
somewhat damaged.
CHANGE AT FAIRBANKS'
Stuck Rooms Beins? Shifted to More
Advantageous Positions.
An extensive change is being made
at the Fairbanks' shops in the mov
ing of the present stock rooms to a
more advantageous position in other
parts of the plant. The location of
the stock rooms as they have been
were not in the location whereby
they could be used to the best ad
vantage, so a large force of men have
been engaged for some time in mak
ing the necessary changes to other
parts of the works.
As the new rooms are planned there
will be three main stock rooms and
a large purchase stock room placed so
as to give the highest amount of ef-'
ficiency.
FRATERNAL MEETINGS
Paaaampale Ledcc JSo. 27. F. A A. M.
Regular Communication Thursday eren
log, August 10.
F. "W. Jackson, W. M.
D. R. Colb, Secretary.
11.
Haawell Royal Arcb Chapter. No.
Called Convocation Friday erenin-, July
28, fit 7.30 o'clock. Work P. M. and M. E.
Degrees.
Raymond A. Pbael, E. H.P.
Fbd G. Moon, Secretary.
Palestine Commander?, No. 5, K. 1 .
Stated Conclare Tuesday evening, July
11.
Elwik A. Silsbt, Em. Commander.
Bisl D. Evans, Recorder.
The Maaenm of Natural Science.
Open week days 913 A. M-, 14 P. M.
Sundays 2.30 to S P. M.
All visitors welcomed.
St. Johnsbnry Athenaeum.
LIBKAHY BEADING lOOH AST OALLS1T
o'clock to 9 o'clock each week day, Wed
nesday evenings excepted.
3 o'clock to 5 o'clock Sundays.
All are inTited.
LOCAL NOTICES
(Notices will be inserted in this
column in reading matter type at the
rate of ten cents a line for the first
Insertion and five cents a line for sub
sequent insertions of the same copy.)
Miss Bertha Wesselhoeft Swift of
Boston, soprano, and teacher of sing
ing, will spend the summer in this
vicinity and will commence teaching
the first week in July. Her address
will be 88 Main street. 3t
First class seven-passenger auto for
hire. C. E. Sparhawk, Phone 336-W.
Mrs. A. E. Grow, foot specialist,
will be in town Thursdays, Fridays
and Saturdays only until September
25. Adv.
Try the new College Ice, "Ruby
Flop" at Searles Soda Fountain.
From May to September The Cale
donian Office will be closed Saturday
afternoons. Bring in your business
Saturday morning.
Fairbanks Coffee, sold by A. H.
Gleason, 73 Main street.
If you need a monument or any
letterine done In cemetery write or
call 534M. J. E. Walker.
ROY WELLS INJURED
FOE PLAY FEARED
Young Farmer Found in His Wagon With Crushed Skull
Early Tuesday Morning on Road From Irasburg to
Orleans Had Been to Former Town To Call on Delia
Ducharme and Was Returning Home Many Theories
Advanced As To Cause of Accident
PEOPLE TALK OF A RIVAL SUITOR
Fact That Wells Was Found In Wagon Disposes of His Own Explan
ation Made in A Moment of Conciousuess at Brightlook Hospital To
Effect That He Fell Oat When The Horse Made A Sharp Turn De
lirious Earlv Last Evening But Was Resting More Comfortably Early
This Morning
A ST. J. BOY
ISDROWNED
Canoe In Which Warden Hatch and
Guy Lindsay Were Endeavoring
to Shoot Rapids In Passumpsic
Capsized.
ACCIDENT AT BARNET
Took Place At Junction of River With
the Connecticut Victim Was Stu
dent At Vail School and
Son of Mr. and Sirs. William
Hatch, 111 Main Street
Body Not Recovered.
(Special to The Caledonian.)
East Barnet, July 23 Warden
Hatch of St. Johnsbury was drowned
at 8.30 this morning when the canoe
in which he and Guy Lindsey were
endeavoring to pass the swift water in
the narrows on the Passumpsic river,
capsized.
The accident happened at the last
bend of the Passumpsic river just be
fore it outlets into the Connecticut
river. Soon after 8 o'clock this morn
ing Hatch, in company with Guy
Lindsey, started for the river, intend
ing to canoe down the Passumpsic
onto the Connecticut. Having passed
through the rapids before they
thought nothing of it.
The canoe probably hit a submerged
rock which tipped it over. Both boys
started to swim to the shore nearby,
as the stream is only 25 feet wide at
that point, although a short distance
below it widens into smooth, deep
water about a hundred feet wide. It
was here that Hatch drowned.
Fred Lindsey, in describing the ac
cident, said that when the canoe tip
ped over he was only about 10 feet
from shore which he reached easily,
but hearing a call he turned in time
to see Hatch, who had been carried
into the wider part of the river, throw
up his hands and go down. He hur
ried to the spot and dived for Hatch
a number of times in hopes to bring
him up.
The body had not been found up
to a late hour last night, although
about 25 men are engaged in drag
ging the river.
Warden Hatch was the son of Mr.
and Mrs. William Hatch of 111 Main
street. He was 19 years of age and
was educated in the public schools of
St. Johnsbury. For the past two
years he had been taking the agri
cultural course in the Vail School of
Agriculture at Lyndon Center. Dur
ing the summer vacation he had been
employed during haying by , Fred
Lindsey, whose son was in the canoe
at the time of the accident.
William Hatch went to Barnet as
soon as news of the accident reached
him and word was sent to Mrs. Hatch,
who is visiting in Massachusetts.
(Special to The Caledonian).
Orleans, July 25 The towns of Orleans and Irasburg are deeply
stirred over the mysterious and probably fatal injuries sustained by
Roy "Wells early this morning while returning here from a call on a
young lady in Irasburg, and the majority of people here are not back
ward in expressing the opinion that the young man met with foul play
at the hands of some party moved by jealousy.
The states attorney and the local authorities are investigating the
affair but nothing tangible has yet been found to work upon. The
injured man having recovered consciousness only for a moment and
the explanation given by him was not borne out by the facts surround
ing the discovery of the accident.
Wells is a young man employed in farming by Fred Dudley and
last night hired a team at the Austin stable and went to Irasburg to
call on Miss Delia Ducharme .
He was found at three o clock this morning in his wagon at a
point about one mile west of Orleans. His horse was headed for Or
leans and was grazing beside the road. It was discovered that he was(
suffering from a bad wound in the forehead and after authorities were
notified the vounsr man was rushed to Brightlook hospital at St,
Johnsbury.
Dr. Cleasby of Orleans who first attended the patient reported that
the frontal bones of the skull were so badly crushed in as to remove all
chance of recovery. Dr. J. M. Allen of St Johnsbury, who attended
the injured man today, stated last night that the man had about one
chance in 10 of pulling through.
Dr. Allen said Wells recovered consciousness momentarily during
the day long enough to explain that he was thrown out of the team
when the horse made a sharp turn. But the doctor did not put much
stock in this as he said that the wound looked more like the result of
a blow from an axe than a fall from a carriage. The injured man's
explanation also does not explain how he was back in the wagon when
discovered.
There are several local theories as to the cause of the injury. One
version has it that it was foul play on the part of a jealous rival; an
other that he was kicked by the horse; and still another that he was
run down by an unknown autoist who fled from the scene.
The latter theory however is not borne out by the condition of the
wagon which was intact except for one shaft being broken.
The accident is known to have happened after 1:30 o'clock as
teams passing over the road at that hour met no other vehicles.
The authorities on hearing the report or Dr. Allen of St. Johns
bury redoubled their efforts and it is expected that there will be de
velopments in the case within the next 24 hours.
COMFESS M hi
MS. FELC
COKES-
H OF CRIME
State Concludes Its Evidence In Case Against Williams
With Statement Of Accused Made While In Jail Says
He Was With Dead Man's Wife When She Fired The
Fatal Shot And That He Placed Rifle Bern alh The
Body.
WOMAN URGED HIM TO MURDER
But He Refused Telling Her That She Could Shoot Him (Williams') On
The Spot But That He Never Would Shoot Joe Felch- Defence Has
Few Witnesses And Arguments Are Expected Late Today Or Wed
nesday Morning What Defence Will Be Is Unknown.
UNIVERSALIS
TO MEET HERE
84th Annual Convention of Vermont
and Quebec at Church of Messiah
August 28 - 31
INTERESTING PROGRAM
Just Announced by State Superintend,
ent Fortier of St. Albans Includes
Many of the" Finest Speakers of
the Denomination Large Gath
ering Is Now Anticipated.
HATCH BOD1 RECOVERED
Funeral Wednesday Afternoon From
Grace Methodist Church.
The body was found in 25 feet of
water about 15 or 20 feet distant
from th place where the canoe over
turned. The remains were brought
to the Calderwood undertaking par
lor Monday afternoon.
The funeral will be held Wednes
day afternoon at one o'clock from the
Grace Methodist Episcopal church.
Rev. Glenn Douglas of West Burke
officiating.
The 84th annual meeting of the
Universalist convention of Vermont
and the Province of Quebec will be
held in the Church of the Messiah at
St. Johnsbury from August 28 to 31.
The program that has Just been is
sued by State Superintendent George
F. Fortier of St. Albans is one of par
ticular interest and the speakers thai
have been secured assure those who
attend a chance to hear some fine ad
dresses by many of the best speak
ers of the denomination.
The meeting of the Young People's
Christian union will take place Mon
day evening, August 28. A praise ser
vice will be held at 7 o'clock, led by
Weston A Cate of North Montpelier,
a student at the Canton, N. T., Theo
logical school at St. Lawrence univer
sity. The address of welcome will be
given by Milton E. Montgomery of
St. Johnsbury and the response and
annual address by President G. Stan
ley Miller of East Corinth. Follow
ing the appointment of session com
mittees. Rev. H. H. Niles of Lyndon
ville will preach the annual sermon.
A sunrise prayer service will be
held at 6 o'clock on the morning of
August 29, followed at 8.30 by a
business session. The occasional ser
mon of this session will be preached
by Frank A. Stockwell of Londonder
ry, a student of the Canton school, and
an address will be given by a repre
sentative of the national Y. P. C. U
The election of officers will tak
place.
The Sunday school session is to b
held Tuesday morning, August 29, at
11 o'clock, with an address by Rev,
Edson Reifsnider, D. D., of Cam-
onage, Aiass. in tne aiternoon at z
o'clock will take place the conven
tion of the Woman's Missionary as
sociation. Rev. George C. Boorn of
Rutland will lead the devotional ser
vice. There will be reports by the
executive board, the secretary and thft
treasurer. The president's address
will be given by Mrs. Alice J. Allen of
Waterloo, Que., and this will be fol
lowed by the rollcall of the presidents
of local circles, reports of committees,
the philanthropic department, post
office work, mite boxes work of the
woman's alliance, work in North
Carolina by Rev. George Studson
DeLano, D. D., of Chester, and tht
work in Japan by Mrs. Mary Grace
Canfield of Woodstock. An address
will be given by Dr. Reisnider. Th.
reports of the committees on resolu
tions and nominations and the elec
tion of officers will close the session.
The opening session of the conven
tion proper will be held Tuesday
evening, August 29, at 7 o'clock,
when the devotional service . will be
led by Rev. Albertie S. Phillips ol
Huntingville, Que. O. K. Hollister,
Litt. D., of Goddard seminary, Barre,
will give the president's annual ad
dress. Then will take place the ap
pointment of session committees, ad
dresses will be given by Rev. G. C,
Boorn on the subject, "New Wars for
Old," and a representative of the
Woman's National Missionary asso
ciation. A collection will be taken
for the W. M. A
Devotional exercises will be held at
8.30 o'clock the morning of August
30. Then will follow reports by the
fellowship committee, the secretary
superintendent and executive board,
Sunday school commission and social
service commission. An address will
be given by Rev. H. H. Niles on the
subject, "Experiencing Religion."
Denominational interests will be con
sidered. An address on "Billy Sun
day, a Challenge to Liberalism," will
be given by Rev. C. E. Bingham of
Northfield, the occasional sermon will
(Special to The Caledonian.)
Chelsea, July 24 With the reconvention of the Orange county
court this afternoon the state entered the second week of its case against
Otis Williams, charged with complicity in the death of Joseph Felch,
by introducing a confession of Williams which admits his part in the
crime and accuses Mrs. Felch of firing the shot.
The state's attorney gave notice tonight that the evidence for the
prosecution was practically all in and it looked as if the arguments
would be reached tomorrow afternoon or Wednesday morning as the
defense does not expect to put but few witnesses on the stand.
The confession of Williams told of the intimate relations which
existed between him and the dead man's wife and of the incident al
ready related by Deputy Sheriff Welch in which Williams secured
some morphine for the purpose of killing a dog and how Mrs. Felch
It went on to relate how things went along until the night on
gave the drug to him last February.
which Joe Felch died when his wife asked Williams to return to the
house after he had done his own chores as she wished to talk to him.
He returned to her and she wanted him to go to the sugar-house with
her. They started, she taking the rifle along. When they got almost
there she told him that she wanted him to shoot Joe. He refused and
finally after more talk he told her that she could shoot him (Williams)
right there but that he would never shoot Joe Felch.
The statement then says that Mrs. Felch stepped along, peeked
into the sugar-house and saw Joe sitting there and that she stooped
over and fired. Williams then went in, took the rifle, put it on the
floor and tipped the body over it.
Then went back to the house where she insisted that he go inside.
He did for a few moments and then went home.
The confession also stated that on a few days before Joe Felch
died Williams had given his notice to quit on May 1 and had hired
out beginning on that date with Charles Ricker of Groton.
be preached by Rev. George Stjidson
DeLano and the annual communion
service of the convention church will
be held. In the afternoon at 2 o'clock
there will be a social service hour
with an address by Dr. Frederick J.
Russell, superintendent of the Ver
mont School for Feeble-Mlnded at
Brandon, on the subject, "The Prob
lem of the Feeble-Minded." There
will be a discussion and a question
class. This will be followed by a
business session, special assignment
and election of officers. Rev. Lewis
C. Carson, Ph. D., of Montpelier, wih
give an address which will be follow
ed by departmental conferences. A
devotional service will take place at 7
o'clock in the evening, when address
es are to be given by Dr. Reifsnider
and Rev. H. P. Morrell, professor of
applied Christianity at the Canton, N
Y., Theological school. . A collection
will be taken for the Gunn ministerial
fund.
The last sessions of the convention
will be held Thursday morning, Aug
31, opening at 9 o'clock, when unfin
ished business will be taken up
There will be five-minute addresses
by Rev. F. E. Adams, Ph. D., of
Felchville, Rev. A N. Blackford ot
Rochester, Rev. J. B. Reardon of
Barre, Rev. H. L. Canfield of Wood
stock and Rev. P. Weller of Wash
ington. Following an opsn discus
sion, the closing address will be made
by Rev. D. E. Trout of Brattleboro.
FELCH CASE NEAR END
f
Prosecution Rests at Noon Tuesday
Five Witnesses Corroborating Wil
liams Confession for Defense.
NEWBURY PASTOR MISSING
Rev.
E. B. Williston of Newbury Not
Heard From Since July 6.
Rev. E. B. Williston, pastor of the
Newbury . M. E. church has suddenly
disappeared is the information given
out in letters from Rev. R. F. Lowe,
district superintendent of the Vermont
Methodist Episcopal conference.
Mr. Williston left Newbury on July
6 on a trip to Portland, Me., where it
was understood he had a business ap
pointment, and up to the present time
has not been heard from. His father
is the Rev. Francis Williston of Phil
lipsburg, N. J., who has been accus
tomed to receiving two letters a week
from his son, but for the past two
weeks has received no letters and he
has grave fears that he has met with
some harm.
Rev. Mr. Williston graduated from
the Bangor Theological seminary last
spring. He was a young man of much
promise in his line of work and was
very popular in Newbury.
(Special to The Caledonian.)
Chelsea, Vt., July 25 Today's ses
sion of the trial of Otis Williams,
charged with complicity in the murder
of Joseph Felch, was devoted to the
clearing up of the odds and ends of
the case by the prosecution, which
rested at noon, and the introducing
of the evidence for the defense.
The counsel for the defendant put
on but five witnesses whose testimony
merely corroborated the statements
made by Williams in his confession.
The arguments will be heard to
morrow morning and a verdict Is an
ticipated before night.
TO DISSOLVE CHAMBER
Greek Deputies Will Go Out After
August Election.
Athens, July 25 It was decided at
the meeting of the Greek cabinet that
the chamber of deputies would be
dissolved in the August election 40
days later.
While YouSThink It's Hot
It may be hotter for some
of you. One of our Fire
Policies may help out.
1
mm
