f
T'TTDTT
JLLaJL U
B A
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
T WENT Y-S E VEN Til YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY MORNING, JULY 2G, 1916
10 PAGES
.VOL. XXVII, NO. 09.
ARIZONA
01
I'CAN
lid
JZ7
BATTLE On SOMHE FHOHT nnIGH
BEGAN SATIDAY CONTINUES
ITHOTISTSTOIOHIESS
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
LONDON, July 25. The battle on the Somme front which began Satur
day at midnight and has continued since the brief lulis is still being engaged
by British and Germans with the utmost stubbornness. An indication of the
importance the Cermans attach to defending their third line is found in
the report of General Haig, the British commander, and in the German ad
mission that troops have been brought from before Verdun in order to lend
all possible strength to General Von Eincm.
The British, if thsy are making but slow progress, have been able to re
pulse all the fierce German counter attacks and fully maintain their ground,
although the fighting largely consists of hand to hand conflicts. There is no
news as to whether the Australians, who hold the greater portion of the vil
laae of Po:ieres have yet secured the eastern part which is on the plateau
dominating the villaoe. But General Haig tonight reports the repulse of a
German infantry attack from the east.
Advices from the eastern front today are meagre but the grand duke's
troops gradually are closing in on Erzirgan, the most important base and
military position of the Turks in Asia-Minor, while General Sakharoff con
tinues his successful advance.
According to a Berlin dispatch, by way of Amsterdam, Turkish troops are
to bo sent to help the Austro-Germans against the Russians on the Galician
front.
Make Ready To Turn Over The Nacozari Railroad
GALLESTOSEE 1
Ml EE
ARRANGEMENTS
Russ Threatens
Positions On
Turkish Force
: S
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
HKAD'1"ARTEI;S
T'ETROGRAD, July 25. (via London) J.v ARM IKS ON
Everything In
Readiness For
New Offensive
... ' tiii: i;er-
THK S"MMK,
.Tulv 24, by courier to Berlin. Ju!' -,
(v::i London, July 2D From great
rcndniKirttis 'ith vivid impres
sions of n sernvn delivered by a mili
tary chapliti before the emperor and
a congregation of soldiers fresh in
mind, tne Associated Press corres-
i Rl LEY'S BODY RESTS IN
' FLOWER LINED VAULT
I INDIA AH 'US. Ind., July 25
j The body of J:unes Whitcomb ;
Riley, the lloo.sier poet, rested I
I tonight in a flower lined vault I
I in '.he little old chapel at Crown j
' Hill cemetery, following the pri- i
i vate. funeral services at the home
I in Lockerbie street this afternoon.
I A large crowd was at the ceme- j
I tery to see the body placed in the i
! temporary resting palce. During
' the funeral services, all flags in i
I 'he city floated at half mast.
I The final resting place of the i
) hiuiy hud not hern determined to- !
I niht. it was said, and no de-
1 cision may be n. ached for some i
' time. I
II. S. OFFICIALS
FIND EXPLGSIVE
GAS II TUNNEL
Ll-
-The Russian operations, against the
Turks, winch lately have been over
shadowed by the more sensational
events on General Lrusiloff's front,
now are reclaiming general attention.
As a result of a set iea of consecu
tive gains achieved bv a skilfully nr-
rani; il offensive, which ever .since the pendent returned todr.y to the lm
ta!l of Erzcrum has been slowly, but J medi: te front here the great allied
irrt sist ibly, sweeping toward the oh- ! t ficnsive again fiic'in'cd up in a ser
JecLves in Asia-Minor, the t'aucasiai '. is of dr spiral" iiritish attacks on the
Mrmu s now command tiie heights German, lines northwest of Pennine,
which definitely threaten the import- j These bareiy moved, although the
tant Turkish base of Erzingan and j British attnekrt in force with eleven
make extremely probable the fall of divisions. including two absolutely
tins citv in the near future. Ifie.-di ones on the comparatively nar-
The Russians, after having stolidly ! row fr'-nt l"tv.-e-n UuHltmct.t and
withstood most energetic counter at- j Thirpvul.
tacks, are now pressing forward in I Th I resent iine extending from
tiiree directions from Gumish i was limited to a couple of vicious
Khaneh. 43 miles norta ot Krzingan, ! much- l.., ex:-nt near
from i'.aiburt, 30 miles northeast of i Kstrei s, soithwest of Peronne, which
Lrzitigan. and from Marnakhatun, 43 ! wtp easily r:m:lsl.
miles east of Krzingan. all .f wnich I R The present line extending from
points have recently been occupied by ! Thicpval to Sovcc.irt. but iiulgiin,
the Knssiaiih and form an arc from , -''Kttt rd toward Peronn-, may be
which to focus attacks upon Erzingan. , Vf-":,! a-eordnig to the fi'm con-
The new punts mentioned as hav- j ''lotion of t!" headquarters staff, at
lng been occupied by the Russians,!511'- fcfch wnfr mark of the entente
possessed evi ry natural advantage lor advance. They hnsf this iudment
detens... and the Turks made the most ' r'n !" ",fli,7lblo result of the figir
persistent efforts to hold them. Their:11'- ' t!l" fortnight, and they
loss not only brings the Russians 1 "nieini lr.ai u is no longer a ipies
. wilhin ''7 milfs i.f Kt y.in l-a n lint yivi-N ! f't
BLACKLIST IS
DISCUSSED BT
1LS01 GAB1M
T
RennbMcan A. P. Leased Wire!
WASHINGTON". July 23. flivat
Britain's biack list against American
firms was discussed at length at to
day's cabinet meeting, but afterward.
Acting Secretary Polk of the state de
partment, said there would be no im
mediate announcement on the subject.
It was .said the president and his
advisers wire studying treaties with
Great Britain, involving in the ques
tion and waiting for replies to informal
inquiries on the subject sent to Lon
don through Sir Cecil Spring Rice,
the British ambassador here, and Am-bu-sador
Page.
While it is understood that it has
bet n determined to take some vigor
ous action, members of the cabinet
raid utter today's meeting, that no
definite course of procedure had been
decided upon.
l';:.rt iinswer to the state depart
ment's request for iiiformatiori con
cerning the blacklisting of American
firms bv Great P.riiain was givn in
formally to acting Secretary Polk late
fct existing contracts and that the
British government would be glad to
consider the cases of firms desiring
to o!f- r proof that they had been put
on the list unjustifiably.
Mr. Polk was assured bv the ambas
sador that the blacklist was designed ter"d
wneuier the ISntlsh and i bv Sir fVcil Si.rinir Rif e, the
them command of the chief approaches rr: will ne at.ie to extend their i , :ritjKi, ambassador. Sir Cecil said the
to the citv. , g uns, c.it wite-ther they wii! bo able ,!aeklist was not directed against neC-
It is reliably reported here that the!".' l"M wr,:,t v-c"' hnv' K"mst the .;il tra(ip: t -.-, I10t intended to af-
evacuation of Krzingan has already , ' r,n'1" l" al'r pic.-ii.rr.
begun and tiiat the present defense o i The correspondent returned to the
the city is being conducted only with j front with the expectation of witness
the purpose of giving the Turks time.,ing a manifestation of this counter
to withdraw to a new base at Sivas, pressure I'.gainst a ceitain sector, but
13 miles to the west. enf:n or.ible veather conditions, with
jiow h.-ingine; clouds and mist hidin"
French Statement i'he field of ojicrntiwis and ireventi:ig
PARI.S, July 25. Today's official ! artillery observations. ieft rred the
statement says: ' in v struggle fur the coveted stretches
' South if the Somme, yesterday, we "f fertile pic:rdy.
raptured in a small attack south of Gencml quiet before the storm pre
lUs'rees, a grouii of powerfully fortified vailed along the sec tion of the front
houses. Our troops chnsed the Ger- vi-itej, the activity of the artillery
mans from some trenches north of i I einir scarce lv zreator than the noi -
Vermdiidovillers and occupied them. mal scale whire no tiarticiilar oper
' Between the Oise and the Aisne. I ations are in i.roerss and infantrv
;ind machine gn fire being heard
only occasionally. The troops visited
the regiments coming directly from
the trendies, as well as those about
to move into the forward lines, were
found reaoc, even eager, to renew
the struggle.
The gaps in the units have been
filled tip with fresh men; the worn
out. ennnou for enr.s as well as mei?
f republican A. P. Leased Wire
CI.KYKLANU July 23 Federal of
ficials invstigalinf! the water v.Mik.i
, tunnel distiict which cost twenty-two
i lives, late this afternoon ordered ad
! att-mtits to reach the bodies of the
M m.-n imprisoned in the tunnel stop
ped nriti! some time tomorrow.
This action wi'.s taken because tests
of the g-is tle-ongli which thf jvscti'Ts
had to pass showed that it it was
highly explosive anil the otficials
feared a .second explosion. An attempt
will be made to pump out the gas.
All hope that any of the twelve men
trapped in t!;c tunnel is alive ha;,
been abandoned The bodies, those of
members of two rescue parties which'
tried to r-ach the doomed men. but
lhemsdvessurcuml'ed to the deadly
gas. are in the morgue. The eight
injured men. also members of the
leiciie parties, will recover.
F.-ur ir vesications, city, county,
state and f"f!' re! v. ill b" stal led to
morrow to d"tennine I'm- cause of the
gas id'sian near the five mile crib
end of 'h:- tunni' last night which
ntombed tne t v. five men and p-leased
the cis -,vhi"h overcome the two
ie--'cue parties.
Th- (Cforts of Gustav ( '. Van Duzen.
superintendent ' f water works con
struction and t!ie members of the
rescue parties. te ri aib the imprison
( men w ithout gas helmets or pul.
mowis resulted m the increase in the
ue.ith 1:1. Thi: attetnoon a third
rescue pnr'v tquipp'.l vili the safef
de ic-js rn'er. 'l the tunnel and reeov -
ered the rt-scvers. ton of whom were
'i ad. I'ii i Do-'.eu wa among the
rescuers who V'( re revived.
1 leaded by I). J. Parker and I.. M.
Tore: o'' ti e Fnited States bureau of
mins. who anived lure from Pilts
'unrg with the mine rescue car, the
third p.- rty of rescuers ;ienetrated
.in f". iuto the wrecked tunnel from
the crib end. Five men with the two
expert - find ven "quipped as they
vere with the gas helmets, thev
found difficulty 'n making their way
so heavy was the pas With their
safety lan'etns they could see that
a 'atge rave in had occurred. They
nid rot :-pcnd much time investigat
ing the coniiilion of the tunnel at
Ihe poir.t of the explosion as they
T'1'" concerned with bearing out the
bodies of the res it'Ts who were seat-
ilong the tunnel.
BRITISH CRUISER IN
THE THREE MILE LIMIT
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
NORFOLK, Va., July 2fx Pilotlcss and with warn
ing to United States officials, one of the British cruis
ers lying off Cape Henry awaiting the appearance of the
(ierinan sulmiersihles l)cutschland and Jireman, steam
ed through the Virginia -apes early today, proceeded to
the vicinity of Fortress Monroe, cruised about for an
hour or more, and then returned to a point just outside
the three mile limit.
The United States warship and the collier Xeptune
were the only government vessels which sighted the
ship, and a detailed report of the incident was made to
"Washington tonight by naval officers.
Authorities here said that while the entrance to
American waters without warning was very unusal, they
could see it in no violation of international law or navi
gation regulation.
No Clearance Papers
BALTIMORE, duly 25. At a late hour tonight cus
toms officials said clearancehad not been issued for the
1 )eutr'chland. Concerning her wireless apparatus, which
was sealed Monday, it was said the seals cannot be bro
ken without authority from Inspector Cadnnun who is
out of the citv and will not return until tomorrow.
EXPLOSION W
iT I!E BEES
CAUSED Elf BIS
YOUTH CHARGED
WITH CAUSING
DEATH OF 61
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON". July 25. C.enerat
C'alles, commander in Sonora, reached
Nogales today to confer with Colonel
Sage, American commander there,
concerning the question of turning
over the Nacozari railroad to the
American management, according to a
dispatch to the war department to
night. General Calles requested a con
ference for tomorrow. Colonel Suge
also reported that 1,900 Carranza
troops left Nogales today for Hermo
sillo and Empalme, Sonora.
Major General Funston today made
the following report to the war depart
ment regarding a disturbance created
by groups of the Eighth Illinois na
tional guard regiment at San Antonio
last night, in which three of the men
were slightly wounded by bullets from
the rifles of the provost guard before
order was restored:
"About 5:30 p. m. today (.fitly 24),
after having been paid, about forty
men of the Eighth Illinois (colored)
wrere assembled in a saloon near the
reservation. Threats were made to
throw out the white soldiers and it is
believed that some disturbance oc
curred. Requests came to the guard
house to send a guard to stop disturb
ances. I'atrol of four or five men went
to scene and tried to disperse crowd,
but without much success. Patrol was
joined by about four more members
of guard and all tried to get men away
by pushing them along.
"Guard finally had to strike some
men with butts of their guns. Then,
members of the Eighth Illinois began,
to throw rocks at guard. Gfcrd finally
fired several cartridges at the legs of
the crowd and wounded three members
of the Eighth Illinois in the legs,
though none seriously. The crowd
then dispersed. The officer of the
day and the post commander arrivid
on the scene shortly after.
"An investigation is being made of
the whole affair, which will be for
warded later. All perfectly quiet
now."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX rilAXClS'i'o, July 23. Oe
spite the suggestion of Arthur Crane
explosive expert for the Hercules
1'ov.der company. that Saturday's
bomb explosion, which cost the lives
of seven persons and the injuring of
forty others, may have been an acci
dent, the police continued their ef
forts tonight to running down 'hat
th considered live clues. Two men
nul to ho fnri.iznprs were nartiell-
j larly sought. They were seen on
lower Market street carrying a heavy
take the form of an announcement in ''.n attempt to irot at the twelve men I suit case at a point near where th '
solHy- to prevent Iiritish capital audi fnr.ter ami Jours, after consulting
credit being used to support an enemy, with Water Commissioner Jr:rger wh,
T:vis, it was si.id, would be set forth made veveral trips into the tun-
::t length in the forthcoming foreign ' nd and had made tests of the gas.
trice statement, which probably will derided tint was too riky to make
we dispersed with grenades several
rei'f.m.,,ii(.r;i)ir parties, which at
tempted to reach our lines in the sec
tor of Tracy Le Val.
"On the left bank of the Meitse an
nerny attack with hand grenades
iigaiiist loll 304 failed under machine
:un fire. On the right bank there
was violent bombardment in the re
gion between Fleury and La Fauee.
(Continued on Puge Twol
(Continued on l'nge Two)
IT I
OT REDUCE ITEMS
t
.
Tl
parliament. Fending its issuance, the ( still lmpriscn-n.
state ,ii partment will delay an an-! According o the fed ral investi
nonnremnnt it is preparing for the in-fa'orx the electric wiring in the tun
formation of til,: American business was fa ilty. After they had en
honses. ;tered with the rescue party they ord-
For the present, while trying to out- ered the electric power thi:t on. They
1 ne the general principles upon which would not venture .'in opinion as to
negotiations on the subject should be, the cause of the explosion hut most
conducted, the stnte department is giv- of those concerned with the district
ing chief attention to the relief of in- declare tb.it one of the 12 workmen
dividual firms which may suffer, with- ; probably jabbed his pick into a Inrge
out intent on their part of violating pock. t of gas which caused the blast
auv legal right of the iiritish govern- ; "uiei s say nut a crossed light wire
ment.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OLXKV, 111., July 25. Roy Hinter
liter, 21 years old, son of a wealthy
farmer, was charged with having been
responsible for the death of Miss Eliza
beth Ratcliffe, 17, of Paoli, Ind., by a
coroner's jury here today. Miss Rat
cliffe died Friday night while buggy
riding with Hinterliter.
The mystery surrounding the death
of the girl was cleared when the com
mission of physicians investigating de
cided that she had suffered from em
bolism of air in the arteries.
State's Attorney Morris produced a
I explosion occurred and their deserin- chain of evidence tending to show an
tii ns were in the hands of the policj. attempt at an illegal operation had
In reporting his findings to the po-I been made. Hinterliter denied he had
lice bomb bureau, Crane advanced the been intimate with the girl.
theory .hut the explosion contained The supposed cause of death is new
gelatine dynamite, the trade name for 1 to the annals of criminal surgery.
While Hinterliter told of the girl's ex
piring suddenly in his arms, officers
(Continued on Page Two)
may h:ive caused the explosion.
One case under consideration is that I All tr.e bodies so far recovered are
of a California firm which had con- .' members of the fust and second
traded to deliver a quantity of oil in ' rescue party. Eleven workmen orig
ustraliu. As the name of this firm inally entombed are still entombed,
appeared on the blacklist, the Aus- i Rescuers believe the tunnel caved in
tralian consignee cancelled the order ; Efter the explosion and remaining vie
by cable. The ambassador's assur- tims are buried under tons of mild and
anccs that contracts will not be im- not ,IB reached for days. Follow-
pai'-ed is taken by officials to mean the revised list of dead:
that in instances of this nature, the I Morgue-
consignees will be instructed to carry I . ' for. Harry, Toledo, secretary
Republican A. P Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. July 2.",. All efforts
t') reduce items of the army appropri
ation bill below the figures recom
mended by the miiitia committee failed
In the senate today and indications
tonight were that the total appropri
Htion for that branch of the national
defense would approximate $290,00,0u0
when the measure is completed. Pas
sage of the bill is expected tomorrow.
Most of the appropriations as revised
by the senate committee had been
acted upon when adjournment was
taken tonight. As the bill stands it
represents an Increase of $110,000,000
over the house authorization.
Iy a vote of 13 to 35, the senate to
day retained a house provision prohib
iting installation of so-called stop
watch systems in management of gov
ernment work's. Senators Mattine,
I'.eed, Thomas and others denounced
the system us "brutal and fiendish.'
Senator Weeks defended it and the
military affairs committee
and navy, the chief of staff of the
army, an officer of the navy not below
the rank of captain and not more than
six experts in industry, public utility
work or conservation, to be named by
the president with the consent of the
senate. A pioposal by Chairman
Chamberlain of the military committee
for a commission to report on the ad
equacy of the food supplied troops at
the border, was ruled out on a point
of order, made by Senator Gallinger.
out trnnsactions already begun.
Another development which must be
dealt with relates to American cor
porations whose stock in whole or in
part is owned by Germans or in Ger
many. A New York corporation found
that the majority of its capital stock
was owned by a German corporation
in the same line of business. Investi
gation by the state department has
developed that under the French and
German law and generally on the con
tinent of Europe, majority stock con
trol of such a corporation by an enemy,
international compressed
foundry workers union.
McOormlck. John.
Schwund, C. M.
Kepj). F. F.
Turnhull. Archi
Wood, G. M.
Welsh. Clarence.
air and
(Continued on Page Two)
Knife, Bayonet, Revolver
And Grenade Only Weapons
Republican A. P. Leased Wire) i dier. I paw a German officer using
n,nic? T,.i,, ti,. rtvrhnrr inlotip of them on a wounded comrade.
i f..,'fiVi,t n,,'i. of p,,.i,m hi.. I but as he was in the act of striking,
1uvnn the PHI ish find
sought I Ascribed ns follows bv an officer who s.de his intended victim.
vainly to have the provision against was wounded during the struggle.
(Continued on page Two)
o
Dr. Watte Under
Sentence of Death
Attempts Suicide
nitro glycerine stabilized in gelatine.
He advanced the opinion that if the
bomb was the work of a deliberate
nssassin, "he was an ignorant bomb
maker."
In view of the fact that warnings I ceeding accordingly. Several suspects
had been sent to the newspapers and arrested here and in one other state
individuals by a so-called "employes' city have been released,
liberty league" containing threats to I The seventh victim, Captain Reuben
do violence during San Francisco's j J. Vaughn, a river boat master, died
preparedness parade, the police are! today from his injuries. The i'uner
convirced that the bomb plot was n j f Is of four other victims were held
carefully prejiared plan and are pro-' today.
Bliss Confers With Bel!
EL PASO, July 25. Major General
Tasker H. Bliss of the general staff, ar
rived at El Paso toninht and went into
conference immediately with Brigadier
General George Bell, Jr., commanding
this district. General Bliss, who was
accompanied by Major W. D. Connor
and Major D. E. Nolan, also of the
general staff, declined to say more than
that he would remain only long er.oi.ieli
to complete his inspection of the vari
ous military organizations encamped
here.
An official denial of the report that
a large force of Villistas were march
ing against Torreon was received to
day from General Alvaro Obregon,
minister of war, by Andres Garcia,
local Mexican consul.
Consul Garcia had informed the min
ister that such a report was sent to
the war department at Washington by
General Pershing.
Obregon's reply substantiated pre
vious reports from Chihuahua City. It
said:
"Villa was beaten back at the ranch
of San Isidro by the column under
General Mafias Ramos, his command
completely dispersed and it is now
fleeing into the state of Durango,
where all commanders have orders to
engage in relentless pursuit."
Newspapers from MexMco City today
stated that General Gabriel Gavira,
former commander of the army of
Northern Chihuahua has been made
inspector general of the entire consti
tutionalist army.
mm IRKSFI
OF THOMAS M. PATTEHSDH
It stricken out.
Senator I.ee of Maryland made an
effort to include an appropriation in
the bill to provide for dependent fam
ilies of national guardsmen in the fed
eral service, tuit his amendment was
ruled out on a point of order unstained
by Vice President Marshall. The Is
sue will be rai"ed again on an amend
ment to be offered by Senator La-
l-ollette.
An amendment to establish a conn
ed of national defense for co-ordination
of industries and resources in the
interest of national security, was
agreed to 39 to 13. The council would
'Earlv Sunday morning at the mo
ment the signal for attack was given,
alter a fright full intense bombard
ment, the English infantry rushed for
ward to the entrance of the village,
carried it brilliantly and occupied
tho first houses. At 1:30 o'clock the
German counter attacked. Their onset
was evtruorlinarv, don'rtless because
their courare had been stimulated by
etbr. as one could tell from the odor.
'Here the rifles player no part
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SING SING PRISON. N. Y., July 25.
Dr. Arthur Warren Waite, awaiting
electrocution here for the murder of
his father-in-law, John E. Peck of
Grand Rapids, Mich., was found in his
of Pozieres be. but ns he was in the act of striking, cell In the . "death house" tonight
nd Germans is i a revolver shot laid him down be- bleeding from a wound in his chest
mane in tne snape or a cross. The
In a ruined house a German squad prisoner had cut himself with a piece
with a machine gun was extermlnat-1 or orosen glass.
ed to the last man bv an Australian I How V aite obtained possession of
party which had followed them into I the glass could not be explained. It is
the house. I wns present at an ex- presumed that when he was taken out
citing pie between two officers ! for exercise in the court yard he
- ' . . .. ....... T,l,.L-a if ,,,, irhon tUn ,.lnll..n.in ..t U i ..
an Kner ish lieutenant wuu ,,. ul, .,.,. iismuin m inn
charging at the heal of his men, am.
a Bavarian captain. The lieutenant
struck the Vavi;nan ? Mow in tho
chest. vIth his r.word and at the same
instant he received a ball from his
rdversa-v's revolver in the stomach.
guard was relaxed and concealed it
until he returned to his cell.
Waite was removed to the prison
hospital but he steadfastly refused to
answer questions. The prison author
ities believe if he had intended to kill
the knife, bavonet, revolver and ' The lieutenant had just streneht himself he would have inflicted the
grenade were the only weapjons vised. : enough left to deliver another blow wound elsewhere than on his chest.
The Germans employed a sort of long i which proved mortal to the Bavarian. The injury is not serious. A strict
handled mace studd'd with nails such' Fnfortunatelv the lieutenant also watch will be kept on Waite when he
consist of the secretaries of state, war ' as an Apache might use. not a sol- ; died."
returns to the death house.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, July 25. The utmost
simplicity marked the funeral of
Thomas ,M. Patterson, former United
States senator, publisher and pioneer
of Colorado, here today. Services
were held at the family residence
1075 Pennsylvania avenue at 2 o'clock
The ritual f the Episcopal church
was read bv Rev. John H. Houghton,
rector of St. Mark's church, where
M". Patterson and family attended
services regularly. Interment was at
Fairmount cemetery.
Suggestions that Mr. Patterson's
body lie in state at the capitol were
declined by members of the family,
who explained they wished to con
form strictly to the desire of the de
erased that his funeral be marked by
no ostentation.
Members of Eincoln Post. Grand
Army of the Republic, of whi'vh Mr.
Patterson had been a member since
its organization, attended in a body,
and accompanied the cortege to the
grave. A large delegation of Masons
also attended the funeral, and hun
dreds of friends and admirers joined
in pnvb'g a tribute to the departed
statesman.
In token of Mr. Patterson's eminent
position in public life of Colorado 'or
the lavt thirty years, flags at the
"tnte hou'ie were at half mast and
the capttol was closed at noon under
orders of Governor Carlson. Hun
dreds of telegrams of condolence were
received yesterday and last, nicht
from Colorado and all parts of the
country, including one from President
Wilson
Active pall bearers were: Horace N.
Hawkins. Frank A. Wauleish, Edward
A. Morgan, Charles H. Howe. John
C. Mitchell and Earl M. Cranston.
Honorary pall bearers were: Col. L.
E. Campbell, Col. D. C. Dodge, Dr.
W. F. Grant. J K. Mullen, J. A.
Thatcher, E. J. P.inford. Charles D.
Hayt, E. J. Pinfold. T. J. O'Donnell,
F. J. Spencer and E. W. Unlet.
Delectates Designated
MEXICO CITY, July 25 Cr.offiral
reports here are that General Luia
Cabrera, a lawyer: Alberto Pani, an
engineer, and Roberto Pcsquiera. have
been designated as delegates to a con
ference which will endeavor to bring;
about a settlement of the controversy
betwen Mexico and the United S'ates.
Constitutionalist forces in the vi
cinity of Parral. have defeated titei
forces of Fnncisco Villa, at the San
Ysidro ranch, according to unnoutve
ment made today by General Obre
gon, secretary of war. Pursuit of tho
bandit forces continues.
Villa's cavalry is heading towani
the state of Durango, where General
Mucotte is expected to deal with it.
Seven cars on which arms are hein
transported were taken by the con
stitutionalists. The death of General Calixto Con
cerns head of the reactionary party
in the state of Durango is confirmed.
I (Continued on Page Twol
Prohibition Amendment In
The Balance In Texas
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
DALLAS, Tex., July 25. The early !
majority in favor of the submission j
of a constitutional amendment for
state-wide prohibition, voted on in
serving his sixteenth year in the na
tional house of representatives.
Almost complete returns at mid
night from the congressional race in
Saturday s democratic primary election the second district showed Congress
was brought abruptly down to 1.0S7, man Martin Dies renominated by a.
witli almost complete returns from j vote of over 1,500. Additional boxes
237 counties tonight. The position of ; reporting late, took this contest from
this question was made more insecure j the indecisive stage and made it a
with the announcement that complete Dies victory.
returns from El Paso county, known i Former Governor O. B. Colquitt in
as a strong anti-submission county, ! creased his vote for the United Statc3
would not be available before Satur- j senatorial nomination to 105,00i to
day. A total of three thousand votes i night, with Senator Charles A. Culber
is involved. Hon 27,000 votes behind him. It seem3
In the ninth congressional district. ! certain that these two of the six can-
J. J. Mansfield was nominated over j didates will engage in a run off prir
Congressman George F. Burgess,
now I mary.
j
