Air in Arteries of Dead Girl's Body; Forge Chain of Evidence Around Her Lover
y
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 171
PUBUC DEMAND FOR
STRIKE SETT
IS WITHOUT RESULT
Railways Company Still Insists It Will Not Recognize Union
and Men Will Not Meet Officials Except as Organiza
tion; Adjustment of Other Differences Hinges on
Recognition; Thorpe Warns of "Forward Labor"
Movement Here
MUSSER MEETS COMMITTEE OF LOYAL
EMPLOYES TODAY TO MAKE ADJUSTMENTS
•
olice Chief Zeil Declares Jitneys Mast Get Off Streets
When Normal Car Schedules Are Resumed; Dyna
mite on Tracks at Rutherford; Railways President
Denies Rumor He Will Resign and Explains Position
of Directorate on Strike
Public demand for a settlement of the street car strike has as yet
had no effect.
The Railways Company still insists that it will not recognize the
union, but will treat with the men as individuals.
The strikers continue to assert that they will not meet with the
companv except as a union, but that they are willing and anxious
to arbitrate if the union is recognized.
The recognition of the union is the bone of contention. That
once settled an adjustment of other differences would be easy.
A meeting of the employes of the Harrisburg Railways Com
pany who did not go out on strike with the union men, was held this
morning at the offices of the company. President Frank B. Musser,
spoke a few minutes to the men, and explained that he was willing
to meet a committee of the employes to discuss wage and working
conditions and make adjustments.
A committee representing the nonunion men mef with Presi
dent Musser at 2 o'clock this afternoon to review the working con
ditions and start plans for readjustment.
Union leaders stated this morning that not one striker attended
the meeting of the nonunion employes, and that the men are in the
fight to win.
Mayor Meals Gives His
Views on Trolley Strike
Settlement Possibilities
Mayor Ezra S Meals who has been
suggested as an arbitrator in the car
strike this morning said: "The de
mands of the strikers could be arbi
trated without recognition of the union
by the company I believe. The jitneys
operating without a license will be
ordered off the streets when is
regular car service, as the Chief of
Police explained this morning.
"The strike should be settled. It's
costing the city and county money:
the strikers and the company are not
gaining anything: businessmen are
complaining about a decrease in sales,
and so far nothing has been done.
Jitneys are operating and in some in
stances machines are being used and
overcrowded, so that the safety of the
public IS at stake.
"The strikers are willing to arbi
trate. Let them go to work, get the
cars running on schedule, and adjust
the trouble. The union can still exist,
so can the local division. The con
venience of the public should not be
staked on recognition, or nonrecogni
tion of the union.
"The authorities are trying to be
fair to the strikers and to the com
pany, but the public must be con
sidered. There are a number of com
petent people in the city who could
settle this strike to the satisfaction of
both company and strikers."
GI.OBE-DEMOCRAT TO BE 2 CENTS
St. Louis. JAly 26. The St. Louis
Globe-Democrat to-day announced an
increase in the price of its daily
edition in St. Louis from one to two
cents, effective August 1. The high
cost of print paper is given as the
-ause of the increase.
THE WEATHER
For Harrlaburg and vicinity: Fair
to-night anil Thursday; slightly
warmer Thumiiuy.
For Eastern Pennsylvania: Partly
cloudy to-ntghts Thursday fair
and slightly warmer; gentle to
moderate winds, mostly south.
River
The main river. North Branch and
probnbly the lower portion of the
Meat Branch will rise. The moat
decided rise will occur In the
North Branch, where plus
changes of several feet are Indi
cated in the next twenty-four
hours, A atage of about 3.0 feet
is Indicated for Harrlaburg
Thursday morning.
Temperature: 8 a. m„ 72.
Sunt Rises, 4:50 a. m.; sets, 7:24
p. m.
Moon: New moon, July 29. 9:15
p. m.
River Stage: 4.2 feet above low
mater mark.
Highest temperature, 78.
Lowest temperature, 70.
Mean temperature, 73.
Normal temperature, 75.
Getting used to strange
newspapers Is like breaking in
• pair of new shoes—mighty
uncomfortable. Order the
Harrisburg Telegraph mailed
to your vacation address if
you would enjoy real comfort.
Six cents a week will bring
the Telegraph to you no mat
ter arttftne you are. x
BY CARRIERS 6 CENTS A WEEK.
JINGLE COPIES 2 CB>TS.
Jitneys Mast Get OH
Streets When Schedules
Are Resumed Says Zeil
Chief of Police J. T. Zeil in dis
cussing the jitney situation in the city
as a result of the car strike said to
day that as soon as he is satisfied that
conditions are normal again and that
schedules are being maintained by the
railways company on the lines, orders
will be issued to the officers to arrest
all jitney drivers operating without
licenses.
The chief of police said: "The jit
neys operating vithout licenses are do
ing so now because the public must
have means of transportation, and so
far the regular service of the railways
company has not been resumed since
the strike. As soon as this is done
there will be no need for the Jitneys
and they will be ordered off the
streets unless the drivers furnish the
necessary bond and take out a license.' -
"I do not believe we will have any
trouble enforcing the law. It was not
suspended. The public had to have
transportation and it was unsafe to
ride in the cars. In addition to that,
no regular service was maintained.
When it is resumed, the jitneys must
go."
Dynamite On Tracks
I-ast night Sheriff \V. W. Caldwell.
County Detective James T. Walters
and other officials went to Rutherford
after receiving a mysterious telephone
message to th 2 effect that dynamite
had been placed in the railways com
pany tracks there.
Four sticks of the explosive were
found, together with a percussion cap
and two tubes of what is believeu to be
nitroglycerin. The tubes were turned
over to a chemist for analysis. The
explosives wer-j wedged in a frog of
the tracks near the Rutherford rail
road shops.
A systematic investigation has been
started and the authorities declared to
day that no efforts will be spared to
learn who placed the explosives on the
tracks.
Enough of the dynamite had been
wedged between the frog to blow up
several buildings.
Pnrado To-morrow Night
The parade scheduled by the strik
ers for last nieht was postponed be
cause of the rain and will be held to
morrow night, forming at Front and
Market streets at 7.30 o'clock. No
other changes ir- the original plans or
[Continu<-d on Page 9]
Carvajal Confirmed as
Provisional President
of Torn Santo Domingo
By Associated Press
Santo Domingo, Dominican Repub
lic. July 26.—Federico Henriquez Car
vajal was proclaimed provisional presi
dent of Santo Domingo by congress to
day.
President Carvajal succeeds Juan
Isidoro Jiminez. He was elected by
the Chamber ot Deputies on May 17,
but confirmation by the Senate was
postponed at the request of Admiral
Caperton. commanding the American
naval forces in Santo Domtngo.
JIMINEZ AT READING
Reading. Pa., July 2b.—Ex-President
Jiminez, of Santo Domingo, with his
wife and daughter, Carmela, is now at
a sanatorium on South Mountain, ten
miles from this city. When informed
to-day that a provisional president had
been named for his distracted country
to succeed hini he refused to make
any comment. He is undergoing trea'-
ment for a nervous breakdown and ap
pears to be a very sick man. He ex
pressed no surprise over the news that
Carvajal had been named his suc
cessor.
HARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING, JULY 26, 1916.
MET, LOVED AND WED IN FOUR DAYS
I, • • ... •
i BF
; .. . ;. .; .: : ; |
. 'Ni«W•'& - v. . •. .*&& : J
MRS. DONALD CORLEY.
NeV Tork.— She met him Thursday. Friday he proposed. Sunday they
were married.
Up to last Sunday the heroine of this story was Miss Harriet Works, author
of children's stories and a pretty young woman of the artistic set.
She met Donald Corley to whom she is now married, at a dinner , party
where the subject turned to plays. '"I asked Mr. Corley if he had seen the
'Age of Reason," Mrs. Corley now relates, "and he said that he had. J asked
him if he remembered the little girl who used to go to the telephone to call
those she wanted and say: 'Come to me; I am in danger.' And he would ans
wer. 'All right. I'll be up.'
"The next day I thought of Mr. Corley, so I went to the telephone and
called him: and, not being able to think of anything much to say. I stammered,
'I am in danger,' and he said, 'All right, I'll be up.
"When he came he proposed to me and I accepted."
The couple were married two days later.
CARRANZA TELLS
WHERE HE STANDS
First Chief Outlines Issues to
Be Discussed at Coming
Conference
Mexico City. July 25. General
Carranza. in an interview with the
correspondent of the Associated Press
to-day, discussed the conference to be
held between the delegates represent
ing Mexico and those of the United
States for the purpose of reaching an
arrangement relative to the withdraw
al of the American troops now in Mex
ico and patrolling the frontier in such
[Continued on Page 14]
Waite Slashes Breast in
Sing Sing Death House
By Associated Press
Sing Sing. X. Y., July 26. Dr.
Arthur Warren Waite, to he executed
here for the murder of his father-in
law, John E. Peck, of Grand Rapids,
Mich., was found in his cell in the
"death house" last night bleeding from
a wound in his chest, made in the
shape of a cross. He had cut himself
with a piece of broken glass.
How Waite obtained the glass could
not be explained. He was exercising
in the courtyard yesterday and may
have picked it up when the guard was
not vigilant. Waite was taken to the
prison hospital. He refused to answer
questions. The prison authorities do
not believe he intended to kill himself.
The injury is not serious. A strict
watch will be kept on Waite when he
returns to the death house.
U-BOAT DIPS; IS
READY FOR TRIP
Deutschland Submerges Twice;
Captain Pleased; Bremen
Still Expected
By Associated Press
Baltimore, July 26. The German
submarine merchantship, Deutschland,
was given another submerging test at
her dock to-day. When she arose to
the surface ten minutes later her
commander. Captain Paul Koenig, and
Constructor William Prusse expressed
their satisfaction with the results.
It was learned that the submergence
of the craft is necessary to trim her
cargo properly.
Respecting a report that the
Bremen the Deutschland's sister ship,
which is hourly expected in American
waters, would go to Boston, it was
said at the offices of the Deutschland's
agents here to-day that the Bremen
would "seek shelter at the nearest,
safest and most convenient port on
the Atlantic seaboard."
SMOTHERKI) UNDER CORN"
Special to the Telegraph
Carlisle. Pa.. July 26. John Kerns,
aged 13 years, was smothered to death
yesterday afternoon under 1,000 bush
els of corn at the grain mill of John H.
Shaeffer, at Greason, four miles from
here. Young Kerns, with several
other boys was playing about the mill
when the accident happened. He was
a son of Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Kerns, of
Greason.
I -BO BRINGS DO WW Bin. AXE
By Associated Press
Berlin. July 26. via London. A
British biplane was shot down by a
German submarine at a point north of
Zeebrugge. Belgium, on Monday, says
an official statement issued by the Ger
man Admiralty to-day. Two officers In
the machine were captured.
BURY BISHOP
EVELAND FRIDAY
Local Pastors Will Attend Fu
neral of Divine at Mt.
Holly
BISHOP EVELAXD
The funeral o* Bishop William Terry
Eveland, who was electrocuted when
his steel fishing rod touched a live
wire near Mount Holly Springs, will
take place Friday afternoon. Services
will be conducted at the home of his
[Continued on Page 9]
DESTROY "EGGS"
BY BUCKETFULLS
High Cost of Living Is Not
Threatened; They're Cater
pillar Eggs
Eggs are being destroyed these days
in the River Front parks by the buck
etfuls.
City Forester O. Ben Gipple and his
assistants are the destroyers; the mil
lions of eggs of countless caterpllars
are the objects of destruction.
."We're working steadily through
TContinued on Page 9]
FILES $30,000 DAMAGE SUIT
Suit for $30,000 damages was filed
this afternoon against the Philadel
phia and Reading Railway Company
by Mrs. Mary C. Myers, on behalf of
herself and six children as a result of
an automobile accident last July. Mrs.
Myers and her husband William L.
Myers were motoring near Moselem
Bridge, Richmond township, Berks
county, and when about to cross the
tracks at an unprotected grade cross
ing a train crashed into the car. Mr.
Myers was killed; Mrs. Myers was per
manently injured. She asks for $lO,-
000 on her own behalf and $20,000 for
the death of her husband.
PITY THE POOR Jl'\KMA.\|
By Associated fress
Washington. July 26.—Junk men In
the United States collected $114,000,000
■wjorth of Bcrap iron and other metals
last year, the Geological Survey an
nounced to-day.
LOVER HELD FOR
DEATH OF GIRL
UNDER OLD ELM
Impenetrable Veil of Mystery
Covers Events at Youth's
Trysting Place
AIR FOUND IN ARTERY
Police Endeavor to Weld Chain
of Evidence Around This
Slim Clue
By Associated Prtss
Olney, Ills., July 26. When a
small air bubble burst In an artery
under pressure of a physician's Knife,
the first link in the chain of evidence
against Roy Hinterliter, who brought
the body of Miss Elizabeth Ratcliffe to
a sanatorium here last Friday night in
a buggy, was said by prosecuting
authorities to-day to have been weld
ed. The death of the Ratcliffe girl is
said by medical authorities to be with
out parallel if it develops a crime
actually was committed.
Hinterliter was bound over to the
grand jury without bond yesterday by
a coroner's jury, which held him re
sponsible for the girl's death.
What Happened Under Kim?
Hinterliter began calling on the
girl about ten months ago. when she
came to Olney from Poali, Ind., to
[Continued on Page 12]
200 Entries to Date
For Tennis Matches
Drawings on Friday
Entry lists for the annual city cham
pionship tennis tournament, which be- |
gins next Tuesday, on the Reservoir
courts, will close to-morrow evening !
and on Friday the house committee of !
the Reservoir Pork Tennis Club will I
arrange the drawings of contestants.
To date more than 200 entries have
been received for the various events,
including men'u and ladies' singles and
doubles and mixed doubles. The com
mittee anticipates a big rush of entries
to-morrow, the last day. however, and
enthusiasts are urge>l to file their
names as early as possible. The draw
ings will be completed, it is expected,
in time for announcement on Sat
urday.
Bullet Whizzes So Close
It Burns Woman's Face
William M. Siler, proprietor of a
poolroom in West Emails street. Mid
dletown, accidentally pulled the trigger
on a loaded revolver which he was
showing to his wife and friends yes
terdav and narrowly missed shooting
I himself and his wife. The bullet
1 whizzed past his face, missed his wife
! by a few inches and was imbedded in
rbe wall Peonl" on the Street* at the
.time rushed in. thinking that someone
had been shot. Siler was slightly
burned about the face by the dis
charge.
Hunt Barringtcn Hurt
in Motorcycle Smash
S. Huntingdon Barrington. manager
of the Barrington Repair Shop and
Garage, Brady street near Market, is
in the Keystone Hospital with a badly
fractured leg. While en route across
Mulberry street bridge this morning at
9 o'clock an automobile sideswiped a
motorcjcle on which Barrington was
riding.
He was hurled a distance of twenty
five feet, striking the curbing along the
sidewalk on the bridge. The young
man was rushc.l to the hospital, where
it was found that his left leg was
broken in tw.> places, pieces of the
bone protruding from the leg near
the l.nce. The automobile that hit the
Barrington motorcycle, it is said, be
longed to R. N'. Phope The name of
the driver was not learned.
Paralysis Continues to
Spread; 35 More Deaths
By Associated Press
New York. July 26. The epidemic
of infantile paralysir continued to gain
headway to-day. Although yesterday's
high record of deaths was not equaled
there were more cases reported. The
daily bulletin of the Health Depart
ment showed that during the 24 hours
ending at 10 o'clock this morning the
plague killed 35 children and there
were 162 new cases reported in the
five boroughs of New York City.
The plague apparently shifted its
center from Brooklyn to Manhattan, a
gradual increase in new cases and
deaths being noted there daily, com
pared with a decrease In Brooklyn.
To-day there were 42 new cases re
ported In Manhattan . the greatest
number yet and twelve fatalities.
Middletown Child Dies
From Infantile Paralysis
The first death from infantile pa
ralysis in Central Pennsylvania oc
curred this morning when E. Malcolm
Charters, aged 7. so nof Mr. and Mrs.
Andrew Charters Spring street, Mid
dletown, died from the disease. Dr.
B. Franklin Royer, chief medical in
spector of the State Department of
Health, and Dr. C. R. Phillips, this
city, went to Mlddletown when notified
of the death to determine the cause.
Funeral services will be held Sat
urday afternoon at 2 o'clock and burial
will be made at Middletown. Surviv
ing are the child's parents, two sisters
and a brother.
PARALYSIS SPREADS BY
CONTACT OF CHILDREN
New York. Jusy 26. The most im
portant contribution *o information
about infantile paralysis made public
here to-day was a statement by Dr
Simon Flexner. of the Rockefeller
Institute, that the disease is spread
primarily by personal contact of child
with child. I
GERMANS SQUEEZED
BY ALLIES ON ALL
FRONTS THEY ADMIT
British Capture Important Fortified Town of Pozieres
Commanding Roads Along Somme; Erzerum Falls
Before Russians and Turks Driven From Country;
Italians Hold Monte Cimone
GERMAN COUNTER ATTACKS FAIL ALL
ALONG LINE; AUSTRIANS FALL BACK
Russians Advance in Slonevka Region, Capture Many Guns
and Ammunition; in Riga Section Teutons Make At'
tack*, but Gain No Ground; Loose Many Prisoners
Successes for the allies on the Franco-Belgian, Russian and
Caucasus front are officially announced to-day.
In Turkish Armenia, the Russian Caucasus armies have taken
Erzingan the strong Turkish fortress nearly 100 miles west of
Erzerum line, its occupation virtually completing the process of
clearing the Turks from Armenia.
In Northern France, the British have captured the entire vil
lage of Pozieres, partial possession of which by the Germans had
barred the British path toward Bapaume. Berlin admits Britis'.i
occupation of this village.
In Southern Volhynia, the breach in the Teutonic lines has been
widened, according to Petrograd, the Austro-German forces fall
ing back before the Russian advance in the Sloneka region. The
Russians are crossing that river, tributary of the Styr, and pressing
forward. They announce the capture of five guns, six machine guns,
quantities of material and many prisoners, some 500 of whom have
been brought in.
Sharp fighting has taken place on tho Russian front -in the Riga
region and that of Baranovichi, north of.Pinsk. The Germans were
the assailants in these sectors, but failed to gain ground.
In the Trentinc, the Italians have held the summit of Monte
iCimone, just captured from the Austrians, against violent counter
attacks.
[Continued on rage 5]
MR. THORPE GIVES AGREEMENT TERMS J ■
1 Harrisburg.—Vice-President Thorpe ,of the carmen's f
1 union. said this afternoon that the strikers are willing to «
T treat with the Traction Company under the following I <
I terms of agreement: "This agreement, made and entei .. A
? into, this day. ... , 1916, by and between the *
I I Harrisburg Railways Company, party of the first part, and JL
; & their employes, members of Division 709, parties of the JT
1 second part; the company to agree to meet and treat with
£ the duly authorized and accredited representatives and com- j
j 1 mittees on all grievances that may arise during the life A
1 f
i 1 of this agreement: the company to be fair and just in all 5
I its dealing with its employes."
! f FLOODS AT TAMAQUA
| | Pottsville, Pa., July 26. —The Wabash creek broke its '
I banks at Tamaqua early this morning and flooded the # '
|C® town. The water rushed through the main street six feet j
J deep.
a loss ;s between $75,0C0 and SIOO,OOO. The town of Gil
£ berton in the Mahanoy Valley is under four feet of water. < (
t DEUTSCHLAND TO CLEAR :
, Baltimore, July 26. —Arrangements to clear the German
! I merchant submarine Deutschland were made late to-day I
; by Captain Paul Koenig, commander of the vessel, who it &
! J was said, personally would go to the customshouse, after |
j l regular hours, to secure the necessary papers. 4^'
; ; U-BOAT ATTACKS DREADNAUGHT • £
| Berlin, July 26. —8y Wireless.-*-A German submarine if
j attacked a British dreadnaught off the Orkney Islands on fr'
| * ' July 20 and obtained two hits with torpedoes, the German 8
i ! Admiralty announced to-day. K
« ' r »
' ONE KILLED IN FLOOD jj
Pottsville, Pa., July 26.—One miner lost his life in aJ.
< » rush of water in the No. 11 colliery of the Lehigh Coal f
I and Navigation Company, three miles east of Tamaqua.
- . HAMLIN RENOMINATED £
l ')l
Washington, July 26.—Charles S. Hamlin, of Massa- ,
, chusetts, now the governor of the Federal Reserve Board, ■ ►
was nominated for another term to-day by President Wil- 1
I :
, i son. if
i MARRIAGE LICENSES f
' Israel Wllllm Wilcni-hlk, rhilaiKrlphla, and Rcba Fralm Cohea, Hew '
Cumberland. '
I Percy Myers lleam and Sarah Krina Kuuxh, Carlisle.
< O»oar William Kiani and Beatrice Marguerite Avery, Steelton.
- ,
If annua.
■■Vb" »nfb mlk
CITY EDITION
14 PAGES
