MI I
3 1 copper, $24.00$27.00. ffj In Northern Portion; Local Thunder I I
j ! I , - Showers In . Southern Portion or U I I
Jj Y N 1? : FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. I Ml
V. F'Ve Cnt- OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, JULTlTliii: second cu.. ., th. . TTT. If I
! tOmJKEJS IS TAKXN: ERZINGAN FALLS
I I BRITISH TROOPS COMPLETE THE
CAPTURE OF GERMAN POSITION
Pozieres Now in Possession of Troops Under General Haig
i Russians Take Over 4000 Prisoners on Teutonic Front
ii Turks in Disorderly Retreat in Asia Minor.
I London, July 26, 11:57 a. m. The village of Pozieres
- has been completely captured by the British, according to an
official announcement made today by the war office.
The text of the statement follows :
"The whole village our territorial troops made a further
i; advance and captured two strong trenches and a number of
1 prisoners including five officers.
Berlin, July 26, via London, 4:58 p. m. British troops
have established themselves in the town of Pozieres, says the
official statement issued today by the German army headquar-
i ters' staff.
I
J Petrograd, July 26, via London, 4:01 p. rh. The Turkish
fj fortress of Erzingan in Central Armenia has been captured by
jj the Russians. This was announced officially today by the i
) Russian war department. j
Petrograd, July 26, via London, 4:05 p. m. Marshal
J von Hindenburg attacked the Russian lines near Kemmern,
20 miles west of Riga and nearly succeeded in penetrating the
t Russian front line, the war office announced today, but finally
i were compelled to retreat by the concentration of the Russian
j fire.
ii Berlin, July 26, by wireless to Sayville. A German sub
j marine attacked a British dreadnought off the Orkney islands
I on July 20 and obtained two hits with torpedoes, the German
1 admiralty announced today.
j London, July 26, 7 :40 p. m. With reference to the Ger-
i man statement that a submarine had torpedoed a British dread-
nought off the Orkney islands July 20, the British admiralty
i - stated .that .the actual facts were as follows- ; , - T
$ "A small auxiliary off the north of Scotland was attacked
I by an enemy submarine on the date mentioned. She was not
j hit."
A
i
The entire village of Pozieres has
been won by the British'. By com-
pleting his occupation of Poziieres,
; General Haig has won an important
! advantage in his offensive along the
! Somme.
j The impetuous Russian drive in Ar
1 :; menia has resulted in the capture of
the important fortress of Erzingan
from the Turks, according to an offi
cial announncement in Petrograd.
V The Turks are said to bo retiring in
disorder.
1 A Petrograd official statement an
nounces the continuance of the Rus
sian offensive in Volhynnia and the
replse of a violent attack attempted
by General von Hinderburg's forces
In the Riga region.
British Capture Pozieres.
London. July 26, 12:22 p. m. The
! capture of PoziereB in the Somme riv
1 er region, reported today by Field
Marshal Sir Douglas Haig, the British
commander-in-chief In France, gives
the British troops domination of the
i highest point overlooking the plateau
on which the German lines extend
: to the eastward.
1 ' Some of the most stubborn, fighting
in the recent British offensive which
Ii now has lasted nearly a month as
;, occurred In the streets of this village,
which the Germans have fortified un
til it became one of the strongest
points of their line.
House-TVHouse Fight
Every house had to be fought for
and taken separately and the British,
after taking possession of a consider
able portion of the village several days
and then in turn again seized the lni-
tlativo until the whole place fell oe-
tore their onslaught.
'J The German general staff regarded
the position of Pozieres of such Im
'i portance that they even brought reln-
forcements from troops which had
S been fighting in the Verdun sector
and these held tenaciously to part of
8 the village until driven out, or captur-
, ed In the hand to hand fighting.
I , Erzingan Is Evacuated.
I ' London, July 26, 11:10 a. m. Brz-
'5 ingan, the strongly fortified Turkish
g town in Central Armenia, has been
evacuated by the Turks, according to
A a dispatch from Petrograd received
1 here today by wireless telegraph from
Rome.
Recent advices from Petrograd says
.3 that the Russians after beating off
energetic counter-attacks were con
V ' verging on Erzingan from three sides
$ ! and that the Russian advance guards
u were within ten miles of the fortified
,' city. The Turks were reported by
Russian aviators to be destroying the
stores and supplies. Belief was ex
pressed by Russian observers that the
' i pvacuation of the place already had
' bogun and that the defense of the
i fortress was being conducted only
, , j with the purpose of giving the Turks
; .1 time to withdraw to a new base at
y s,vas, 130 miles to the west.
The Russian official communication
q f of Tuesday said the Turkish armies In
; , the Erzingan region "were retreating
I in disorder before the irresistible pres
; 4 , sure of our troops and were abandon
' hig along the road, cannon, rifles and
i ..ammunition,"
'it ""
Austrians Enter Protest.
Amsterdam, via London, July 26,
12:3G a. in. Baron Burian von Raecs,
, Austrian-Hungarian foreign minister,
has handed a note to the neutral rep
sentntives In Vienna, says a telegram
received here today from the Austrian
capital, protesting against the sinking
of Austrian merchantmen by entente
allied submarines.
British Plane Shot Down.
Berlin, July 26, via London, 1:30
p. m. A British biplane was shot
down by a German submarine at a
point north of Zeebrugge, Belgium, on
Monday, says an" official statement
issued by the German admiralty today.
Two officers in the machine were cap
tured. "London, July 26, 10:45 a. m. Six
civilians have been executed at Ghent
charged with "war treason," accord
ing to a Reuter's Amsterdam des
patch quoting the Telegraaf.
The despatch also says that the
Germans have removed 7,000 men,
2,000 women and 150 pupils of the
Turgot institute from Roubalx, pre
sumably for agriculture work inn Ger
many. Capture 117 Germans.
Paris, July 26. The night was calm
on the French front south of the river
Somme, says an official statement is
sued this afternoon by the" French
war department. In the capture by
the French of a group of houses south
of Estres, Monday, 117 Germans were
made prisoner and three new German
guns were taken.
Attacks Repulsed.
Rome, July 26, via London, 3:15 p.
m. The night of July 24, Italian
troops repulsed two violent counter
attacks against the summit of Monte
Cimont. which had been captured
from the Austrians, says the Italian
official announcement Issued today.
FRENCH STATEMENT.
Paris, July 26. The French state
ment today says:
"On the .Somme front the night
was calm.
"In the course of the battle the day
before yesterday, when we won a
group of houses south of Estrees, we
made 117 prisoners. We have
brought in three new German guns
and much material found in the ter
rain conquered by us July 20, north of
Soyecourt. This brings the t total
number of cannon captured on that
day to six.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
there was great artillery activity in
the Floury sector. We placed under
fire and dispersed enemy detach
ments north of Chapello Sainto Flue.
"At daybreak we bombarded an Im
portant munitions depot near Dun.
Thirty-eight shells were launched on
this objective A .
"In the course of the night 29 shells
were thrown on tho railroad stations
at Vilosnes and Brleulles and on the
bivouacs near Dannevoux."
oo
Building laborers at Lincoln, Neb.,
have established a minimum of 30
cents an hour.
RUSSIANS CROSS
RIFERSLONEVKA
Inflict Heavy Losses on Teu
tonic Forces, Capturing
Over 4000 Men.
HINDENBURG IS ACTIVE
Attack Made on Czar's Troops
West of Riga Is Almost
Successful.
u Petrograd, July 2.6, via London, 4:05
p. m. Tho Russians are continuing
their successes in the southern drive
in Volhynia, pressing back the Teu
tonic forces near the Slonevka river,
a branch of the Styr, which the Rus
sians are crossing, the war office an
nounced today.
Great losses have been Inflicted on
the retiring hostile forces. Heavy los
ses in prisoners were sustained also,
the announcement states, General Sak
haroff capturing more than 4,000 offi
cers and men.
The forces of General von Boehm
Ermolli are being attacked by the Rus
sians in Gallcia, ten miles north of
Brody.
The statement says:
"In the region of Kemmern, after ar
tillery preparation, the Germans made
two attacks and were on the point of
forcing back our front line detach
ments when, owing to our concentrat
ed fire, the enemy was compelled to
fall back, leaving many dead and
wounded. During these battles the
Germans used explosive bullets and
tear-producing shells.
"Northwest of Baranovichi a fierce
artillery battle was waged on both
sides together with engagements be
tween front line detachments. During
these fights our detachments mado
small advances.
"Six enemy-aviators threw 32 bombs
on the Gamlria station. Eleven aero
planes also threw 71 bombs on the sta
tion at Pogorelcy.
"During the night, after fierce fjght
ing In the region of the village oft
Vonski, southwest of Baranovichi., a
r-epmpany of the enemy crossed the
river Shara and apprached our wire
entanglements but were repulsed by
our rifle and gunfire.
"In the region of the river Slonevka,
a branch of the Styr, our troops, cross
ing to the left bank of the river, con
tinue to press the retreating enemy
which suffered great losses. We have
taken prisoners 63 officers, 4.000 men.
Fi guns, six machine guns, 12 cases of
munitions and many other stores.
Prisoners are continuing to arrive."
oo
PROTECTION FOR
THE SUBMARINE
American Cruiser and Tor
pedo Boats to Enforce Neu
trality Off Capes.
DEUTSCHLAND IS READY
Captain Secures Clearance
Papers and Is Preparing to
Put to Sea.
Norfolk, Va., July 26. The armored
cruiser North Carolina weighed anch
or at Old Point Comfort at 1:30 p. m
and headed for the capes. Two tor
pedo boat destroyers preceded the
cruiser. It was stated at Old Point
that the three ships were under or
ders to lay off the capes until further
instructions.
Washington, July 26. Secretary
Daniels announced today that the arm
ored cruiser North Carolina would do
neutrality duty for the present out
side the Virginia capes. The navy de
partment would make no comment
which would connect the. order to the
cruiser with the recent dash of a Brit
ish cruiser into American waters.
Baltimore, Mr., July 26 Arrange
ments for clearanco papers for the
German merchant submarine Deutsch
land were made late today by Captain
Paul Koenig, commander of tho ves;
sel, who, It was said, personally would
go to tho customs house after regular
hours to secure the papers.
oo
PASSAGE ARMY BILL
LOOKED FOR TODAY
Washington, July 26. Passage of
tho army bill carrying more than one
hundred million dollars increase over
the- house mensure was looked for in
tho senate today. Most of tho senate
committee's provisions had been act
ed upon when the bill was taken up
today and a vote was in, prospect be
fore adjournment
Tho senate yesterday provided in
tho bill for a council of national de
fense to comprise tho secretaries of
war, army and navy, interior, tho
army chief of staff, a navy officer
and not more than si industrial ex
perts., - -
If GETS Blli
FID FOR ROADS
Good Roads Act Gives Bee
hive State $56,950 for
Highway Purposes.
APPORTIONMENT MADE
Five Million to be Distributed
Among States by Federal
Government.
Washington, July 26 Apportion
ment among the states of the first
year's appropriation of $5,000,000 car
ried by the new good roads' act was
announced today by the department of
agriculture and which has certified
the figures to the treasury department
and state officials.
To be entitled to Us share, each
state must provide an amount equal
to that put up by the federal govern
ment. Texas gets the largest share, $291,
927; New York second, $250,720; Penn
sylvania third. $230,644 and Illinois
fourth, ?220,926.
Before making the division Secre
tary Houston deducted three per cent
or $150,000 set aside by the act for
administration. Then the $4,850,000
was allotted to the states on the bas
is of one-third respectively In the ra
tio of area, population and rural deliv
ery and star mail routos.
Among other state allottmnets are:
Arizona $68,513; California $151,
063; Colorado $83,690; Idaho $60,463;
Iowa $146,175; Kansas $143,207; Mis
souri $169,720; Nebraska $106,770;
Nevada $64,398; New Mexico $7S.737;
North Dakota $76,143; Oklahoma $115,
139; Oregon $78,6S7; South Dakota
$80,946; Texas $291,927; Utah $56,950;
Washington $71,SS4; Wyomlng$61,196.
The first Instalment is for the fis
cal year ending June 30, 1917, For
the four succeeding years the follow
ing amounts to be apportioned in the
same manner were authorized:
1918. $10,000,000; 1919, $15,000,000;
1920, $20,000,000; 1921, $25,000,000.
In addition l-,Q0Ot0OQ is appropriat
ed each year for t'eri years for the de-'
velopment of rural roads in the na
tional forests.
Houston to Announce Plana.
As the first step in the federal gov
ernment's part of spending $150,000,
000 on good roads during the next five
years in co-oporntion with the states.
Secretary Houston soon will announce
preliminary plans for organization
and sometime before September 11
will notify the governors of states of
the apportionment of federal funds for
this year. A circular will also be sent
to all the governors and state highway
authorities outlining a tentative plan
of nrocedure.
The $150,000,000 is to be paid half
by the government and half by the
several states, apportioned among the
latter according to their respective
area, population and rural mall route
mileage.
The expenditures are authorized by
tho Shackleford-Bankhead good roads
Jaw, the first granting federal aid to
states In road building. It was signed
July 11 by President Wilson and gov
ernment officials are preparing to put
its provisions into early operation.
Actual construction of some of the
roads may begin this fall and exten
sive construction next spring is plan
ned. Appropriations for the present year,
ending July 1. 1917. authorized by Con
gress are $5,000,000, For the four suc
ceeding years they are, respectively,
$10,000,000; $15,000,000; $20,000,000;
and $25,000,000. The law provides,
however, that no government money
shall be available unless the states
spend an equal amount, matching the
government contributions dollar for
dollar.
Every cent of the federal and state
funds, the act provides, shall be spent
to build new roads. Maintenance costs
thereafter must be born by the states
alone.
Rules And Regulations.
Rules and regulations to put the
federal aid law as It Is popularly
known, into prompt operation are now
being drafted by the Secretary of Agri
culture, upon whom devolves practical
ly tho entire work of supervising the
government expenditures. Immediate
supervision will be by the Office of
Public Roads and Rural Engineering,
of which Logan Waller Pago Is direc
tor. A conference of highway represen
tatives of all states and, possibly, of
organizations Interested in the good
roads movement, engineering experts
and others, to discuss measures for
promulgating the new law is planned
soon 'by Secretary Houston.
Apportionment among the several
states of the $5,000,000 for the first
year's work today are announced
by Postmaster General Burleson, who
is required to annually certify appor
tionments because of changes in rural
post route mileages and population.
,The allotments of the federal appro
priations will be made by the Secre
tary of Agriculture, one-third being
based on the ratio which the popula
tion on oach state bears to tho total ,
United Stales population, acocrding to
the latest census, one-third in the ratio
which the mileage of rural post ;
roads in each state bears to the total i
national mileage, and one-third in the i
ratio which the area of each state
bears to the total area. ,
Routes and construction 'matbriala
of tho new roads are to be finally
determined by the Secretary of Agri- !
culture. No public road can be built I
under tho law until its location, cost i
Shooting of DV. Harris in Boston
Brings Harry Thaw Case Parallel
Dr. Celia P. Adams; Dr. Eldridge D. Atwood (left) being taken into custody
by Police Sergeant Mattey.
Dr. Eldridge TJ. Atwood is -in a Boston jail, following the shooting' by
him of Dr. Wilfred Harris, president of the Massachusetts College -of
Osteopathy. The shooting occUrre'd'followinif the mysterious death of Dr.
Celia P. Adams, who was Atwood's fiancee. Atwood says the girl com
mitted suicide because she was wronged by Harris. Harris, who is near
death, emphatically denies this charge. '
and character are approved by him.
Every road project with plans, speci
fications .and cost estimates must be
given his approval before any of tho
federal money shnll be available.
There is no specific requirement that
such roads shall be permanent, but the
act declares they shall be "substantial
in character," the secretary being giv
en discretion to construe the ques
tion of substantiablllty in each separ
zito CCISO
Limit $10,000 a Mile.
A limit of $10,000 per mile, however,
is the maximum fixed by the law to
prevent use of the government funds
in building costly boulevards which
would not assist In rural develop
development.
Whether the new roads built under
the law shall be main-travelled trunk
lines, connecting inter-state highways,
or merely small sections scattered
throughout the states is also left to
tho discretion of the Secretary of
Agriculture. Construction of both is
expected. At the proposed conference
of state highway representatives here,
it is believed that proposals for a
comprehensive, correlative road-building
scheme will be reached. The
American Highway Association, the
American Automobile Association and
other good roads organizations are
interested in such co-ordination and
correlation of the public roads
throughout the entire nation. Devel
opment of the national road system
as a whole is the broad scheme and
aim of government officials, with the
aid of state authorities.
The machinery for co-operative ac
tion is substantially as follows:
States desiring to secure their share
of the federal funds will, through
their highway commission or depart
ments, file formal applications, sub
mitting the route and character of
roads proposed to the Secretary ot
Agriculture. Should he approve the
projects, the Secretary of Agriculture'
will notify the state commission and
the Secretary of the Treasury. The
latter will then set aside the sharo
of the United States, which saall not
exceed fifty per cent of the cost.
The Secretary of Agriculture will or
der payment of the federal funds upon
completion of the roads, and is" also
authorized to make partial payments
as construction proceeds.
The construction work and labor in
each state is to be done in accord
ance with state laws and under imme
diate supervision of the state highway
department, subject to inspection and
approval by government engineers.
This leaves the states in control of
the construction, subject only to Insure
good designns.
Selection of Routes.
Selection of road routes, as well
as their type and structural composi
tion, is also left primarily to the state
officials, subject to approval or re
jection by the secretary of agricul-
ture. ,
To secure a share of the federal ,
funds, state legislatures or counties ;
must appropriate sums equal to tho :
federal allotments. The act also re- :
quires formation o!) state highway
commlsBiou, or a similar state agen
c', to havo charge of the states' part
of tho work. Four states, Indiana, i
South Carolina, Georgia and Texas, (
have no such commissions or corre- i
ponding organizations, . but . to .secure 1 1
federal funds they must be organized.
Other states have no highway com
missions, but have substantially simi
lar departments or agencies.
Where states, like Illinois, are pro
hibited by their constitutions or oth
erwise prevented from acting under
the proposed contributory plan, the
act provides that the federal appro
priations may become available to
separate counties when they shall
match the government's contribu
tions, such roads, of course, being
built only within the contributing
counties.
To give the states ample time to
build roads and to. guard against
hasty or extravagant construction,
the law also provides that unexpend
ed federal appropriaitons each year
shall be available during the succeed
ing year, while this year's allotments
to states that have no highway depart
ments shall be available for three
years, to give state legislatures time
to create such departments.
For inforcement of the provision
requiring the states to maintain tho
new roads without federal assistance,
the secretary of agriculture is author
ized to disapprove of further roads
projects from such states or their
civil subdivisions and deny further
government aid if roads aro not put
in proper condition after four months'
notice.
Development of a federal corps of
highway engineers is one of the re
sults expected from the new law. Civil
service examinations will bo held Au
gust 8 pr many moro highway engi1
neers needed by the government.
on
SENATE AMENDS
ARMY MEASURE
i
Reed Proposal to Increase Pay
of Soldiers on Border
Adopted.
Washington, July 26, An amend
ment to the army appropriation bill
by Senator Reed to provide that na
tional guardsmen nnd regulars serv
ing on the Mexican border should re
ceive the additional foreign service
pay, although on duty entirely on
American soil, was adopted today by
the senate. Meu on foreign duty are
entitled to 20 per cent additional pay
and. officers to 10 per cent.
Charges of Senator Works of Cali
fornia that the national guard was
kept on the national border for po
litical purposes were contradicted by
Senator Reed who declared tho pres
ence of the guard had served to awak
en Mexico to tho need of a concilia
tory attitude toward United States.
He said withdrawal of the men now
might open the way to a renewal of
marauding by bandits.
DROUGHT IN ILLINOIS.
Springfield, 111., July 26. -All vege
tation in Illinois is suffering from
irought, according to the weekly crop
-eport of the -United States weather
jureau issued here today.
KAISER'S TROOPS j
KEEP UP COURAGE
.
They Come Back From I
Trenches Without Signs of !
Being Demoralized. '
GRENADIERS CONFIDENT j
British Have Employed Half I
of Their Army on the I 1
Picardy Battlefield. 1 1
Headquarters of the German Armies I
on the Somme, July 24, by courier to ' n S
Berlin, July 25, 10 a. m., via London,
Jul" 26, 4:25 a. m. One source of in- I
formation is conversation with troops ! J
coming from the front lines, particu- ' H :
larly common soldiers, whose view- j n !
point- often give a valuable clue to I (!
the tide the battle is taking. , ij
The correspondent visited first a
grenadier regiment which had just j fj
been relieved from forward trenches , jj
after beating .off French onslaughts ! W
in the vicinity of Estrees for several
days. The soldiers described in uncon- n
ventlonal language the French
charges, particularly the great attack '
of Friday, the chief force of which ' j
fell on this regiment. The onslaught M
was preceded by three hours of In- ' H
tense bombardment, touching the ex. , a
treme limit of the possible for the ex-
trmely efficient French artillery. I 5
It might have been expected that ! jr
the front trenches would have been ', v,
demolished and their defenders-demor. j W
alized after this pounding, but the
soldiers unconcernedly related how, fi
when the artillery curtain lifted and ; ii
French and black regiments charged, j
the Germans jumped from what was -
left of their trenches and advanced n
to meet the French. In an open des- ij
perate hand to hand struggle in which ft
hand grenades were almost the ox- L
elusive weapon, the French finally re,- m
turned to their own trenches 'followed
by the Germans, some of whom even ' B
leaped into the French trench and ' m
continued the struggle "Tnrtir called 1 m
back by their remaining officers and j Lrj
non-commissioned officers to their ' ij
own lines. 1 Kj
Cannot Break Through. ; m
"Will the French be able to break ' m
through the grenadier regiment?" was ,
asked of the soldiers. m
"Never," was the reply which ex- I
pressed evident pride in their regi- i In '
ment, but was given without a touch
of bravado. f
"Which is the better French soldier, 1 1
the white or the black?" tl
"The white, by all odds, is better j
and braver," was the instant judgment
of the soldiers, who added uncompli- II
mentary reference to the fighting cus- IB
toms of the Senegalese troops which 0
had resulted in very fey prlsonres fflj
being made .from among these regl- Hi
ments. i
The next group encountered was a j !fl . t
detachment of slightly wounded men, ' W 1
walking back from the dressing station jj
to the railroad head. No despond- H3 -V
ency was evident among them. An- J ;
other regiment visited had just re- U
turned from another part of the south-
ern front. Its experience had been jj
much the same as that of the first , j R
regiment, and the soldiers exhibited : if
an identical feeling of absolute confi- i n
dence that they had the upper hand i jj
over their enemy. K
One man when questioned said that I J
he had not seen the great French ; I t
charge. He had been buried in a ' I
trench during the preliminary bom- ! H -
bardment and was dug out after two I n
hours and sent to the rear. His nerves U
apparently were not at all shaken by I b
his experience. He, like all the others, ! L
took his return to the trenches as a j I
matter of course. i I
The correspondent also visited a I
group of several hundred French pris- j 1
oners captured during the fighting at ' ff
Estrees.' It must be said that they, ! I
too, made an excellent impression. j
They showed no trace of despondency I
or demoralization. They were mostly j a
Bretons and colonial infantry. !u
Many British Troops. jl
The troops had been ordered in by I
General Foch in a vigorous endeavor
to open the German sack position and ; i
give the British and French the neces-sarj-
elbowroom for further efforts.
Later expansion is the' object of the
British strategy and the British efforts
to this end has been far greater than
those of the French. j j
General Haig has employed two sol- j j
diers to every one by General Joffre J
and his losses have been proportion
ately even greater, it is said. The im j ,
mensity of the British effort may be
judged from information supplied The
Associated Press correspondent by the
commander In chief's Intelligence offi
cer that thus far in the July offen
sive over half of the available di'i- j
sions of the British army, counting i ' .
even those of the Orient but excluding j
the divisions in England not yet ready j 3
for service at the front, have been t fl .
used on this comparatively narrow a '
fronL - IJ
"We have them Btopped now," was 81
the confident verdict of this officer, jHj
agreeing with that of the commander- n
in-chlef's chief-of staff. W
oo I 111
TWELVE KILLED IN KRECK. J i Jj ,
Laredo, Toxas, July 26. Twelve .181
persons were killed and 22 injured in : jl .
a wreck of a northbound train on the . ;lff
National lines at Morelos, Mexico, four M
miles north of Mexico City, late yes- i j
terday, when the train encountered a i'M
bad piece of track and turned over IM
into a gully. News of the wreck reach- M
ed hero today. a - I ; II '
