rm
n
VOL XX NO. 112.
1MH11K. VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JULY 2(5, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARRE DAILY
MES
BRITISH GUNS
NOW COMMAND
GERMAN LINES
Complete Capture of Po
zieres, Reported Today By
Field Marshal Haig, Gives
Them Possession of Dom
inating Heights Overlook
ing the Plateau
HOUSE TO HOUSE FIGHT
WAS CARRIED OUT
After Resisting Severe Coun
ter Attacks By the Ger
mans, the British Took the
Initiative and the Whole
Village Fell Before Their
Determined Onslaughts
SPEND 150,000,000
ON GOOD ROADS
United States Government PUnt Eitea
live Campaign (or Next Five Yean
Amounti Will Be Appor
tioned to the States.
London, July 2fl. The capture of Po
zieres in the Somme region, reported to-
day by Field Marshal Haig, gives the
British troops domination of the high
est point overlooking the plateau on
which the German lines extend to the
eastward. Every house had to be fought
for and taken separately.
After obtaining possession of a eonsid
erable portion of the village the British
were subjected to severe-counter attacks
which they withstood. Then they,
turn, took the initiative until the whole
place fell before their onslaught.
TURKS ARE FLEEING
IN WILD DISORDER
FROM ERZINGAN
Left Quantity of Guns, Rifles and Am
munition as They Evacuated Forti
fied Town in Turkish Armenia.
Petrograd, July 20. It is officially an
nounced that the Turkish fortress of
Erzingan has been captured by the Rus
sians. The Turks are said to be retiring
in disorder, leaving a quantity of guns,
rifle and munitions in their trail. Sivas,
100 miles west of Erzingan, will be their
next base, it is assumed by military observers.
London, July 26. Erzingan, a forti
fied Turkish-Armenian town, has been
evacuated by the Turks, says a Rome
despatch.
Russians Advance in Volhynia Also.
The Russians continue their successful
drive in southern Volhynia, pressing
back the Teutons near the Slonevka riv
er, which the Russians are crossing, the
war office announces. Great losses were
inflicted on the retiring hostile forces.
Washington, P. C July 2. As the
first step in the federal government s
part of spending 1150,000,0110 on good
road during the next five years in ro
operation with the states, Secretary
Houston noon will announce preliminary
plans for organization and sometime be
fore Sept. 11 will notify the governors
of states of the apportionment of federal
funds for this year. A circular win also
be aent to all' the governors and state
highway authorities outlining a tenta
tive plan of procedure.
The Jl.WHMl.lXMi in to be paid half by
the government and hulf by the several
states, apportioned among the latter ac
cording to their respective ares, popula
tion and rural mail route mileage.
The expenditures are authorized by the
Shackleford Bankhead good rosds law,
the first granting federal aid to states i
in road building. It was signed July ri
bv President Wilson and government of
ficials are preparing to put its provisions
into esrlv operation. Actual construc
tion of some of the roads may begin this
fsll and extensive construction next
spring is planned.
Appropriations for the present year.
ending July 1, lf17, authorized toy t-on
gress are $."),0(iO.Oon. For the four sue
ceeding vears thev are, respectively, $10,.
000.0(1(1, '$1.1,000.0(1(1, $20,0(10.000 and 2."v
000,00(1. The law provides, however
that no government money shall lie
available unless the states spend an
equal amount, matching the government
contributions dollar for dollar.
Every cent of the federal and state
funds, the act provides, shall be spent to
build new roads. Maintenance costs
thereafter must be borne by the states
alone.
Rules and regulations to put the fed
eral aid law, as it is popularly known,
into prompt operation are now being
drafted bv the secretary of agriculture,
upon whom devolves practically the en
tire work of supervising the government
expenditures. ' Immediate supervision
will be bv the office of public roads and
rural engineering, of which Logan Waller
rage is director.
A conference of highway represents
fives of all state and, possibly, of or
ganizations interested in the good roads
movement, engineering experts and oth
ers, to discuss measures for promulgat
ing the new law is planned soon by Sec
retary Houston.
Apportionment among the several
states of the $5,000,000 for the first
year's work will soon be announced by
Postmaster General Burleson, who is re
quired to annually certify apportion
ments because of changes in rural post
route mileages and population. The al
lotments of the federal appropriations
will be made bv the secretary of agri
culture, one-third being bised on the ra
tio which the population of each state
bears to the total United States popula
tion, according to the latest census, one-
third in the ratio which the mileage of
rural post roads in each state bears to
the total national mileage, and one-third
in the ratio which the area of each state
bears to the total area.
The approximate apportionments of
this year's $5.non,(l(Ml, less 3 per cent, tor
administrative expenses, for the New
England states are as follows: Maine,
$48,750; New Hampshire, $21,650; Ver
mont, $23,600; Massachusetts. $76,000;
Rhode Island, $12,050; Connecticut, $31,.
900.
TRAIN RAN
AUTO DOWN
Driver Seriously Hurt And
Boy Passenger Fatally
Injured
ACCIDENT NEAR
FORT ETHAN ALLEN
Fred Rushford Did Not Hear
The Engine's Whistle As
He Drove On Track
Burlington, July 28. Fred Rushford,
a chauffeur for the Essex Junction laun
dry, had one leg and one shoulder broken
and William Siegrist, an Essex boy, 14
T.II. CAVE, Jr., SEEKS
STATE AUDITOR'S JOB
Assistant State Treasurer Issues State
ment to the Voters of Vermont and
Hopes for Support at the Sep
ternber Primary,
Thomas H. Cave jr., of Barre, assist
ant stain Irea.iiirr, to-day issued tho
following statement to the voters of Ver
mont concerning his candidacy for staU-
auditor:
To the Voters of Vermont:
I am a candidate for the office of audi
tor of accounts, ami I hope 1 may have
your support at the September primary.
for the past tour vears J have been
the assistant in the office of the stale
treasurer, which olhVe, as vou know, in
terlocks with that of the auditor of ac
counts, and 1 am warranted in stating
that upon the auditor devolve active,
varied and responsible duties. "The gen
eral provisions of the law involve a mul
tiplicity of details in accounting, run
ning into thousands of items annually
and these duties are not easily under
taken by one whose work and experience
have not Wen along similar lines.
I am 4H vea old, was educated in the
public schools of Vermont, and llrst
served an apprenticeship at the printer's.
trade in my fathers olhcc. I hen came
HIGHER RATES
NOT JUSTIFIED
Halt Called on Proposal of
The New England
Railroads
OPERA HOUSE RIDS
NOT SATISFACTORY
TO CITY COUNCIL
LEASED CAR PLAN
IS FOUND UNLAWFUL
Interstate Commerce Com
mission Issues Its
Orders
CONFERRING WITH FRANCE
But England Will Reply to the United
States as Soon as Possible.
London, July 26. In replying to the
request of Ambassador Page for expedi
tion of the answer to the American note
regarding the detention of mails by the
British censors, the British foreign office
to-day said that the reply would be sent
to the United States as soon a possible,
but that England was still conferring on
the subject with the French government.
years of age, was fatally injured to-day 20 i devoted to business a.l.ninistra- TIl(1 leases w
. . . . . . , .. It ion, the latter hall of this tune being rier. atvmt -,inn
when , westbound local train from Essex K Fivp ynn of th roVen" .Tat
to Winooski ran over the laundry deliv
cry truck near Fort Ethan Allen. The
driver did not hear the whistle of the
train. He was taken to the Fanny Allen
hospital.
DECLARED A GOOD PRIZE
German Court Acts on the Liner Apham,
Which Carried Gold.
Berlin, July 25, via London, Julv 26.
The prize court has decided that the Kl
der Dempster liner Apham, which was
aptured bv the German raider Moewe,
in the early part of the year and taken
by a prize crew into Hampton Roads, is
period I was rashirr of the National
Hank of Barre. I he past four years I
have been the assistant state treasurer,
holding the place at the present time. I
have served s auditor of the city of
Harre, was auditor of the Granite Mu
tual Insurance company, have been a di
rector in the National Hank of liurre,
the Quarry Savings Rank and Trust com
pany and the Granite Mutual Insurance
company, both of f'srre.
1 was representative from thp city of
Harre in the legislature of 1010 and
served as chairman of the committee on
banks, also being a member of the com
mittee on manufactures.
I go before you Voters of the state, on
my reord of service in lines that should
a imnil nri7a and thut nernrdinrd v the
gold on board the steamer, amounting to lfit ,mto l,e "t,k' of alitor satis-
T-m OOO mnrta aliall li tiirneil nr . Html 111 I" nil.
the Reichstag.
There have been various estimates of
the amount of gold on Ward the Apham
when she was captured, but no oflicial
statement concerning it has been made.
The estimates ranged from less than
$200,000 to as high as $2.."00.000. The
Apham is still in Newport News.
BRITISH CRUISER INSIDE LIMIT
Another Chapter in Boston Crime Writ
ten, His Death Being the Second
Dr. Celia P. Adams Died of
Steamed Toward Fortress Monroe In Poisoning.
Waiting Deutschland. Boston. Julv 26. Dr. Wilfred E. Har-
Norfolk. Va.. July 26. Pilot less and ri of Massachusetts College of Os-
without warning to United States offi- I teopat-hy, who was shot by Dr. E. de L.
ials. one of the British cruisers Iving wecK ago yesterday at the 1M-
off Cape Henry awaiting the appearance tel Westminister, died late yesterday
of the German submersibles Deutschland i afternoon at the t lty hospital. At the
Thomas II. Cave, jr.
Montpelier, Vt., duly 21, 1016.
DR. HARRIS DIED
OF SHOT WOUND
Washington, July 26. Tho proposed
increased rates over New England rail
roads on milk, cream and their products
were to-day found not to be justified by
tne interstate commerce commission.
ould have given the car-
ihi,000 a vear additional
Regulations of the New Eng-
knd roails giving rate preference to
those dairymen leasing cars over those
shipping in less than carload lots were
found unlawful by the commission. The
carriers were instructed to construct a
scale of rates for transportation of the
commodities in freight cars on freight
trains.
The commission's opinion deals with
shipments to Boston and savs that it is
poor economy to allow the leased car
system to encourage diirvmen in Ver
mont and New Hampshire at the expense
ot those in adjacent territory.
City Will Make Further Explorations
After Possible Lessees, Believing That
the Present Tenders Are Much
Too Low.
Reconsideration of tenders made for
the lease of the Bane opera house re
sulted in the rejection of all bids again
at the regular meeting of the btard of
aldermen last evening, tho matter of lo
cating a I for the theatre after Sept.
1 being referred back to the property
committee. Under the cover of an ex
ecutive session, the aldermen glanced
over the bids and then instructed the
committee to go farther afield in their
search tor someone who will pay n rental
fee somewhere m-dr the top price which
Nelson & Austin paid in thu bad theatri
cal vear of I'lld-lOHi.
The closed session followed a brief
open meeting in which routine business
wus the center of attention. Hovering
on the outskirts of the executive delib
erations were would-be lessees who spent
a warm half-hour in wondiring whether
the '-ity fathers were going to wait until
the last opirtunity for booking big
nhows had passed. Predictions were
freely made that further postponement
in the matter of awarding the lease will
mean that medicine shows and film plays
will have the edge on higher class per
formances in the season just around the
corner. The would-bes argued that a
manager has got to get in touch with
the big-time producers early enough to
have the more desirable attractions rout
ed this way unless the aforementioned
swamp-root and kickapoo are. to have
the call.
As a matter of fact, while the city
legislators sedulously guarded the new
crop of tenders from the press, it is
j stated that some of the offers were ridic
ulously low and hardly calculated to
MURDER TRIAL
IS AT AN END
Otis Williams May Know
His Fate Before He Re
tires To-niq-ht
ARGUMENTS M L
IN CHELSF -J0URT
The Defense F On Only;
a Small Ai nt of
Testi- . y
BOSTON & MAINE R. R.
ALLOWED TO RUN
LAKE STEAMERS
AMERICANS MAY PROTEST
S. S. McCLURE BARRED.
England Does Not Desire to Admit the
American Publisher.
London, July 26. S. S. McClure, the
American publisher, has been detained
by the British authorities and must re
turn to the LTnited States Saturday.
They declined to grant him a permit to
stay.
HIS FOREHEAD CRUSHED.
There is Mystery How Ray Wells of
Barton Received Injury,
Barton, July 26. Ray Wells, a farm
hand employed by E. A. Dudley, was
found with his forehead crushed and un
conscious at dawn yesterday, the horse,
feeding beside the road and Wells in the
buggy. Monday evening young Weils
drove to Irasburg to see his sweetheart,
Delia Dticharme. He left for home, and
the next known of him was when Tom
Diicharme, uncle of Delia, but living sev
eral miles distant, was awakened by
groanes from the road.
The young man was taken to St.
Johnsbu'ry by Dr. C. N Cleasby of Or
leans, where an operation was performed
at Brightlook hospital. Several bits of
lione were removed from the brain and
be regained consciousness for a few mo
ments. He claimed he fell from his bug
gy, but two physicians say the crushed
forehead could hardly result from such
a fall. He may live.
Check for $200 Sent to Company B.
St. Albans, July 26. Old Company B,
first infantry, Vermont volunteers, in
the Spanish-American war, to-day sent a
cieck for $200 to Captain Charles' E. Pell
of Company B now on the Mexican bor
der. This money comes from a reserve
fund that has been accumulating for 16
years.
Wants to Be Franklin County Sheriff.
Enosburg Falls July 26. Deputy
Sheriff A. F. Croft to-day announced bis
candidacy for sheriff of Franklin county.
He has been a depnty for 18 years and
his tern prominent in the Republican
party.
Over Alleged Barring of Irish Relief Fund
Officials from England.
New York, July 26. Officers of the
Irish relief fund are awaiting an ex
planation of the refusal of the British
trovernment to permit Eugene Kelley,
treasurer, and Joseph Smith to land m
England. The matter has been taken
un with the state department. It is
probable that a meeting of the executive
committee of the fund will be called Here
to take further action.
Kelley, as treasurer of the Irish relief
fund, was en route to Dublin with
$50,000, representing the second install
ment of the $75,000 fund raised in this
country for the relief of persons in
Ireland who had suffered through the
recent revolt. He was accompanied by
his wife, who was Emerance de Sallier
du Pin, of Watertown, N Y., and Joseph
Smith of Lowell, Mass., a journalist and
lecturer.
The first installment of the fund was
taken to Ireland by Gill and Murphy.
Friends of Kelly said here that he in
tended to give more than $100,000 out
of his own funds to the relief work.
George J. Gillespie, chairman of the
executive committee of the Irish relief
fund, when informed of the predicament
of Kelly and the latter's party, commun
icated with the state department. He
said he was informed that action would
be taken immediately.
Gillespie said he could not understand
the action of the British authorities in
view of the fact that Kelly and the
others had in addition to their pass
ports a personal letter from Secretary
of State Lansing introducing them to
the American ambassador at London.
"Their passports", asserted Gilles
pie, "were obtained through my efforts,
and I assure vou their mission to Ire
land was none other than the one stated
therein the relief of the needy. The
British consul-genera! vised the pass
ports before the party called and in
formed me of their acceptability. If
there was any objection why wasn't it
expressed at that time?"
Kelly, son of a wealthy banker, is
50 years old. a member of the Papal
household, and a trustee of St. Pat
rick's cathedral of this city. He is a
grandnephew of Arrhbishop Hughes, the
and Bremen, steamed through the Vir
ginia capes early yesterday, proceeded
the vicinity of fortress Monroe,
cruised about for an hour or more, and
then returned to a point just outside the
three-mile limit.
The United States warship Louisiana
and the enllierNeptune were the only
government vessels which sighted the
ship and a detailed report of the incident
was made to Washington last night by
naval officers.
Washington, July 26. Officials here
are inclined to believe that the British
cruiser which made an incursion into
bedside of the dying mail was his wife
and other relatives
Dr. Atwood is in Charles street jail in
default of $1,,(I0(I bonds, charged with
attempt to kill. The police stated that
the charge against 'him will be changed
to murder.
The police, so far as known, have
found no explanation ..for the death by
poisoning of Dr. Celia P. Adams, beyond
that given by Atwood, who, Ukui his ill
rest, said he had shot Harris because
the latter had come between the young
woman and Atwood, making their mar
riage impossible and causing the suicide
May Operate Boats on Lake Memphre
magog in Vermont and on Lake Win-
nepesaukee in New Hampshire De
spite Panama Canal Act.
Washington, July 2(1. The Boston A
Maine railroad was to-day authorized by
the interstate commerce commission to
continue its lines of steamers on Ijike
Winnepesaukee in New Hampshire and
la ke Memphremagog in Vermont despite
the prohibition of the Panama canal act
against railroad-owned steamship lines.
21 APPEALS ON TAXATION
Hampton Roads early vesterd(tv hadlof Miss Adams. Thev had looked for
acted wholly within her rights under in- ward to the recovery of Harris in order
ternational law. Although official com
ment will be withheld pending receipt of
the naval report on the incident, it was
indicated that the version contained in
news despatches showed no violation of
American neutrality.
STEAMER TYNE FLOATED
Has Been on Ledge Off St. John, N. B,
Since Sunday.
St. John, N. B., July 26. The British
steamer Tyne, which struck on a ledge
Sunday, has been floated by tugs and
brought to port.
RELEASE COLLEGE SOLDIERS.
In Time for Them to Resume Studies in
the FalL
Washington, D. C, July 26. All Na
tional Guard organizations composed of
college students will be mustered out of
the federal service in time for them to
proceed with their school work at the
fall term.
It was announced at the war depart
ment yesterday that the policy of the
government would be to disband such or
ganizations completely as units of the
National Guard and to seek the re-organ
ization of the college men into branches
of the officers' reserve corps.
National Guard units composed of stu
dents, but who have gone to the border
prior to Aug. 1, will not be sent for
ward, and similar organizations on the
border will be withdrawn on Sept. 1 for
mustering out unless some new emer
gency arises.
Individual members of National Guard
organizations who can show the inten
tion of entering or returning to eollegu
or schools for the fall term also will be
mustered out on Sept. 1.
to obtain his storv in support of Cue
brief denial of At wood's charges that the
wounded man was able to make be
fore he lapsed into unconsciousness.
At wood's attorneys have intimated
that the defense would be temporary
insanity. Atwood has- said that the
death of his sweetheart was the culmi
nation of a series of incidents that drove
him mad. There is a theory that Miss
Adams was murdered. Motive for sui-
ide has not been established.
PRISONER DEEPLY AFFECTED
When Told That Dr. Harris, Whom He
Shot, Had Died.
Boston, Julv 26. Dt. Eldridge Atwood
the youthful osteopath who. in a jeal
ous rage, attacked and fatally wounded
his former friend, Dr. Wilfred mrris.
to-day received through Sherilf Quinn at
the jail the dreaded word that Harris
died last night. I he prisoner was deeply
affected. Arrangements have been made
to take him to court for arraignment on
a murder charge.
Atwood was held without bail, on the
charge of murder, for the grand jury.
SMALL ARTERY PUNCTURED.
CARVED A CROSS
ON HIS BREAST
Dr. Arthur Waite, Awaiting Electrocu
tion for Murder of John E. Peck,
Did Not Inflict a Very Serious
Wound.
Sing Sing Prison, N. V., July 26. Dr.
Arthur Warren Waiie awaiting electro
cution here fur the murder of his father-in-law,
John K. I'ei-k of Grand Rapids.
Mich., was found in his cell in the "death
house" last night bleeding from a wound
on his chest made in the shape of a
cross. The prisoner bad cut himself with
a piece of broken glass.
I low Waite got possession of the glass
could not lie explained. It is prcsiinud
that when he was taken out f. r exerci.-e
in the courtyard he picked it up when
the vigilance l his guard was relaxed.
and concealed it until he returned tl
Were Heard Last Night By Barre Board
of Civil Authority.
Twenty-one appeals' from the 1016 as
sessments as prepared jfv the board of
assessors were received by the board of
civil authority nt a meeting in the court
room at city hall last evening. F. G.
Howland acted as chairman and 13 mem
bers of the board were present. In a
number of cases the appellants were not
present, but their casus were considered.
The largest rebate and abatement grant
ed was in the appeal of the Episcopal
church with the tenement at the corner
of Washington and Spatilding streets as
the property involved. The next meet
ing of the board is to be neld in the
court room on the evening of Tuesday
Aug. 1, at 8 o'clock.
Cases considered last night were dis
posed of in the following order:
U I. Averill, piece ot land on Wash
ington street, claimed no ownership; re
ferred to the assessors for a report
J-rank Movalh estate, asked for abate
ment of $:i.8-f, being unable to pay: case
dismissed.
Nicolo Nicolini, not 21 years old, asked
for poll tax abatement; told to obtain
birth certificate or certificate of entry
into the United States.
Vermont conference, Woman's Home
Missionary society, asked for abatement
of $1.20 on Berlin street mission; abated.
Sam Wheeler, asked for extension of
two weeks beyond Aug. 10 in which to
pay poll tax; dismissed.
Episcopal property, church represented
by several members asking for rebate of
$ii4.80 in 1915 and $36.80 in 1916; grant
ed. If. G. Woodruff, asked for relwte of
$1S railroad and mining stock assessed
in 1015; case, referred to assessors for re
port. Poll tax appeals: William Diack, ill
ness, abated; John Giaeniuuzi, illnwa,
abated: t. h. Goodell, lack of work, dis
missed; -Mrs. E. K. Nye, husband's poll
txix, alwted; Joseph Rabadcau, deceased,
rHlwted; illiam Diicharme, Agostino
Brusa, William F. Milne. William If. An
derson, James Anderson, illness, abated;
A. Neddo, 1012 poll tax, not livinir
here, dismissed; Arthur N. If. Baxter,
claimed New Jersey as n residence, dis
missed; Anna Tamo, asked for abate
ment on property tax, dismissed.
Chelsea, July 26. -Closing argument
in the case of State vs. Otis Williams,
jointly indicted with Anna Filch for tha
murder of Joseph Fclch at Topsham on.
the night of April 22, Megan when Oranga
county court reconvened t !t o'clock tliia
morning. State's Attorney F. S. Wil-
liams made tho opening argument for the
state and he was followed by Attorney
Stanley C. Wilson and Attorney David
Conant for the defense. This afternoon,
it was expected. Attorney General H. G.
Harber would make the clohing argument)
for the state, to be followed bv the
charge to the jury by Judge 7.. S. 'Stan
ton. Procedure to-day so shaped itself
as to indicate that the case would be in
the hands of the jury when adjournment)
is taken at 5 o'clock, or possibly sooner,
although there were those who predicted!
that the jury will not receive the casa
until to-morrow morning.
It Is-came known to-day that the do
fense has usked for a continuance in tha
state case against Mrs. Felch. The wom
an respondent is represented by R. A.
noar ot tiarre and K. M. Harvey of
Montpelier.. It is stated that she is' in a..
make an alderman trip over a chair in
order to get a lessee signed up, The
tender business is getting to be a tender
subject with the aldermen and they may
lie forgiven for being a bit finicky when
the prying press is sticking around.
A recommendation from the fire com
mittee advocating the addition of a reg
ular fireman to the department and three
extra men to the call force was received
whole-heartedly and the aldermen voted delicate way and might not be able ta
to have the recommendations carried out. withstand the rigors of a murder trial
The regular fireman will be listed as a at this tune. Consequently her counsel
driver at the station. 18 anxious to have the case put over until
Bane's present garbage collecting sys-(September and it is understood that tha
tem is not letter-perfect. Leastwise that state has assented to the w ishes of coun
was the concensus of opinion when Al- 8t'l fur the accused.
derman Bruce advised the board that the Brkf Testlm0ny for Defense
contract with the present collector ex- x. .. . , ,
pires Aug. 1. Alderman Reynolds fa- i nrwn o the eighth day of the
n . t-ftalt aetata rnt J r .-. A . J . A t
vored a regular collection by the city, "'"" ' 7 . . , """llc'.r,
a change which Alderman Shurtleff was recess. ,oe ue,en-,e in-
nclined to oppose on the ground that it ""u"" .' , " . " . m
will be more expensive. Alderma, Hoaly "'1""" ,, " l"e e K'r U-'e nit t""e
thought the additional expense would be !'rne!t Ba'k'y' a" 0r",n?t ,arm"' tci?tl
worth while if the job could be done sat- T "H'1 " i"e mur-
isfactorily. Evidently the aldermen were 'ierd man and the accused. The other
dissatisfied with the contract that was ,. ' ." " ' ,;. . " , , ""'sr "
signed up Inst vear and all hands got '.". ""' VV ,y r V , " , ' 19
around to instruct the iiealth committee , ' . ' : ' . " , , V
to arrange for a collection bv the citv. fU U ,UlB" ' anJ J"h fa"
Recentlv it has been suggested that the th" ?f (hre ntiiHered nian.
street department's new' motor tractor 7fl,I,T r,fl,c.v test.ned that oe detee
might perform an estimable service in tlve oeeupied a cell w, h illiams for
the garbage collecting department, "
Iii line with the refuse collection was . . -,, Y , , , .' .
a complaint received by Mayor Gordon ",,,e ' . ' ,-,, IK ,c!r ",m ?
concerning the practice of accumulating "'a '" inumarea
; n, ' . f i,i.,u that he would make the change, but the
arrangements were not completed.
Neither of the to witnesses was cross
examined at length.
When sworn bv the defense. Ernest
Bailey, the Orange farmer, recalled an
occasion when he was in Felch's barn.
It was on the first day of the deer sea-
refuse in the rear of business blocks.
The mayor voiced the complaint in the
interests of office tenants and others
who believed that the refuse may be
burned at night, when oflices are closed,
or in the early morning before they are
opened. Complaint was directed against
1 li itKriil fiimi.t: uri.itiiT fi-rY ita irapKoffii
tires and the matter was left with the so" ""I1 ,Fe'cb nd "illiams were pres
health committee.
lent. Asked if he heard any eon versa
Failure on the part of the street de-
tiou between the two relative to work,
i. i. i ,.i
part ment to sprinkle north-end streets"'"' "", ' '.",lV '"".
was the subject of talk bv Alderman ness I in u,e negaine. Alter
Reynolds, who mentioned North Main rd h, J' that there was soma
street from Beckley street intersection ta'k .on the "J"'.' but he couhht. re"
northward. North Seminary and Beckley eaHS nature, ine prosecution object
streets in his complaint. Chairman Glvs- fd to t,,e &ln f "m'h ""'
son stated that the oil pump on the te ground that it w hearsay evidence
sprinkler was not working satisfactorily , t-J . .' '., . .
and intimated that the oil and water , ' "Hl",'r
lapses would 1 tilled in as soon as the ': P'J ; oii.re,, as
pump is off the repair shelf. L. K. Aver- an V'l1 b-T t,lp rs'flt the miny
ill bad a case against the department in "ml . 1 -r I, " ', T
burning that he is assessed lor sprink- J , , , .. . , ,, .
,,. , , . . f . . husband was 21 vears old last October,
mg on Washington street lo feet in ex- ..... . ,v . , . . ,
e-ss of a lust assessment. The matter , ;, '. . . h i
was left with the street committee. A
report on the boiler in the stone crusher
.1... L' .... V. r'no.n r. ,.,.. ,
iioiii in.- i iiitoi u. v.uio oimiiaiij ..;i.;i:t.. .... i:n; i - -m ..
t , r ,a -.1 . a l I BIT! Bllllll I , Ol HU II lllldl n Hill PC, .III-,
found fault with some rusty flues and ,,... .... , ,, . ., ' .
mgings, alter the tragedy, with the aid
of her sister and her brother-in-law.
When the defense sought to indicate this
Williams testified that the rear door
1 1... .. I...,. i :l 1
., . ... . v iwis -ecuieii uv u ouium ;wiu iiuu Him
insuring company that the stone crusher ., ..
ii- , "i i .i !..,, the front door bv a lock. On the Sun-
the clerk was instructed to inform the
sanatorium here. She died under an elm
tree two miles from town. An illegal
operation instrument was found under
first archbishop of New York, who wasjthe tree. It is maintained by the physi
sent to France bv Iresident Lincoln asicians that the instrument was used ai
a special ambassador during the Civil
war.
Smith was born in Ireland 53 years
aso. In 1873 he came to the L'nit-d
States and in 18M was naturalized. He
was at various times editor of the
Lowell Times, Boston Traveler, Bos
ton Truth and other newspapers and
periodicals. He K-rved four years in
the United State cavalry.
Local officers of the Irish relief fund
declared the organization is strictly Dou-
t-ohticaL
Causing Death of Miss Elizabeth Rat-
cliffe, Say Prosecuting Authorities.
Olney, III., July 26. The bursting of
a small air bubble in an artery under a
physician's knife pave the prosecuting
authorities what thev consider evidence
that Miss Elizabeth Ratcliffe came to bet jlfi oe
death through a unique crime. Roy Waite ijas removed to the prison hos
Hinterliter brought the girl's body to a pj-,1 i,t he steadfastly declined to an-
swer questions, the prison authorities
believe if be had intended to kill himself
be would have inflicted the wound else
where than on bis chest. The injury is
not serious. A strict watch will be kept
on Waite wnen be returns to the death
htmse.
BURIAL AT CATHOLIC CEMETERY
Joseph Rabadeau's Funeral Was Held at !
St. Monica's To-day.
The funeral of Joseph Rabadeau of
Elm street, whose death occurred Sunday
morning after a long illness, was held
in St. Monica's church this forenoon at
nine o'clock, Rev. Fr. McCarthy of
Montpelier officiating at the re
quiem mass. The bearers were: ..'.
L. Lewis. William Avery, W. T. Blow,
1'aul Tavernia. Fred Pacquet and Einedy
Iiiidry. There were numerous floral
tributes. Interment as made In thc
is not being used by the street depart
ment at the present tune.
sewer and water extension of 55 feet,
both in the same ditch, was recommend
ed by the sewer and water committee in
reporting on a petition from Beech street.
The extension was authorized. Report
ing on a request for a sidewalk on Tre-
mont street, the street committee recom
mended that the work be done as soon as
the finances of the city permit. The re
port was accepted.
Wiling permits were granted H. B.
Partridge for house lights on Summer
street. Montpelier -1' Barre Light A Bow
er company for temporary lights and 12
meters. Charle-s Bobbins for lights at
:f." Orange street. .1. B. Sanguinetti for
a stoneshed motor and the Charles Cattoi
estate to change lighting wires. Build
ing permits were rei-eived by G. W. Dur
kee to remodel a shop on South Main
street, Mrs. . Paul to building a ga-
an unfilled hypodermic needle and that
a small artery was punctured. Hinter
liter is held by the action of the coroner's
jury which bound him over to the grand
jury.
33 CHILDREN DIED.
Catholic cemetery on Berkley street
where the deceased was long employed as ;i1(.s-ti, accounts; water department pay
race on Murray street, and F. G. (Yock-
..r.. v..M, .. 1. Ll, WOUI.
V," """" l'"r : Vr..' dered a recess of 13 minutes.
l-.xceptions taken in me rm- m .is.
P.i ill's proposed garage were credited to
Mrs. Eraser, but they were pas-ed over.
The following warrants were approved
for payment: Street department payroll.
.."'." i. resurfacing permanent road.
snriiiklinL'. surface sewer, sidewalk and
caretaker, in connection with his duties
as sexton at St. Monica's.
HENRY F. DOWNING.
roll, $s2.24: fire department piyroll.
.!1..V: police department pa yroll. .!i."i.f ;
G. A. Bemis, ?14. services as janitor.
CUTLER McKINSTRY
Lifelong Resident of Washington Died
This Morning.
Henry F. Downing, a lifelong resident
of the town of Washington and a re-j Mis Frances McKintry and Murray
spected citizen, died at 2:I. this mom-iC. Cutler, the latter of East Montpelier.
ing after being in poor heslth for three j were married Tuesday afternoon at the
day after a rainy night when it was al
leged the tragedy took place, witness
left the house through a basement exit.
When John Felch took the stand tha
state offered an objection to the testi
mony calculated to show whether he
knew of any trouble between the accused
:ind the murdered man. The testimony
was admitted and w ilness answered that
he had never know n of any such trouble.
He went on to say that he lived within
a mile of his sou's houte and visited the
place frequently. It developed under
cross examination that the elder Felch 'a
last visit, to his son's home prior to tho
tragedy was on the 12fh or 13th of April.
Asked if he knew whether anything un
usual hail happened on the Friday beforn
ithe shooting, the witness replied that ho
jknew of no uncommon happening.
The cross examination was brief an I
when the witness left the stand, Attor-
Jney Conant announced that the defensa
would rest. Whereupon the court or-
Aiter t"io
session reconvened. Judge Stanton stat
ed that a recess w nild be taken ntil 0
o'clock to day. This wn at 4 o'clock.
The accused lingered in the court loom
with his counsel while Jailer Tr ii y fa
vored him with a iio-.j.vjement of th
daily walk to the jail, a distance of sev
jeral rod-, and a trip in which William
usually appears as the tyno.-(re for
!many eyes.
The younsr wife of V. e aicused man
Ins b rue her trouble-, with fortitude)
'during the trill, but ye-terday she was
visitilv iitle te.i as ii:e OTiii-er inane rea i-
Hi. R--Me ac. .Ki.p.m tin- prisoner !s,k to Jan.
s; f r l".,s 'i nri 1 ' 1 . 'ii I.H.I..IHI- iiMii'i
with seen.itu re'ili tsn ?
court room alone.
1 ft tha
During 24 Hours in New York's Infantile ' ?e:lrs bowel trouble. He w-ta, Bethany hureh parsonage in Montpelier
T.,-!i7- FnilstT-i jborn on the farm w here he died, the farm the officiating clergyman b. ing Rev. S. F
being known as the Gideon IViwnii g Blr-mindd. They were unattended.
F.
Tl
New Yi rk. Jii'y - The iiif.irtile par- jplave. The date of his birth was IV- ; bride was gowned in a brow n traveling , 'alter art ! Fef T.iiry. l- 't this fin r;,-
Miss Arlene Martin, who has been
visiting friends on Washington , street
for a few davs while en route from her
home in Concord, Mass., to St. Alhans lalvsis epidemic continued to giin head- ; tober 3. Iv5-i. Mr. Downing leaves !
bav, left last night for that summer re- way t daw In the j.lst twentv-foui ! wife and three children. Elhs Downii.'.
iKirt, where she will remain six weeks' hours. 3 c'liidr- n di-d and 1 lin new caies .Mrs. I.ucy Cboigh and Harry IVjwnir.g. j The bride was formerly crgagej as a
with a party of friends. wire ret-rted in Cue ci'y. U of Wa-Lii t.-n. ' nar-c.
1 H. J. Bradley, wh i ha Wen employe . I
'as a st"!n -tt. r in t:n itv sine li
-11 t. A'ter Aug. I th-v wul l at
-n 'hf groom' r.trrr, in Ka-t M- rt;
for While R'er .hm.--ti.-n. w b"r
he w.l! :-: tri-r.js f r 11 leu iit ,
;:,.! en route for t i-r.rori. N. H.. win re
ie hit cs:j-l'-j inert if a t DvuU r.
r
