April, ltM. ?*Be Jnat Pud Fear not?Dot nil the ends Thon Abart at be thy Country's, Thy God's and Truth's."
THE TRUE SOUTHRON, Established
Consolidated Aug. 2,1861.
SUMTER, S. 0., WEDNESDAY, JULY 26, 1916.
VoLXLII. No. 46.
SJCaWRE OF AMERICAN MAILS
AND BOYCOTT OF AMERICAN
FIRMS IS GRIEVANCE.
Issue* Statement That
80 tees hi BerosuJng Very Im
ovec failure of Engtend to
let
Washington. July It.?A very ee
Hone controversy between the United
ttee and Great Britain and her al?
ia impending. Two matters of dif
have arisen threatening the
friendly relations of the countries.
The British boycott is of the
greatest Importance. British inter?
ference with the American mails is
another difference. That the situation
la serious Is Indicated by the fact that
Acting Secretary of State Polk has la
eujed the following authorised state
sneat: "The State department la be?
coming very impatient over/the fail?
ure of Qroat Britain to reply to our
nsfll Inquiry."
RECORD BROKEN.
Chavty-nene qbaMren Deed and Hun
eVed jued Thirty-four Addltkmal
Chore of Paralyses.
New York, July 22.?The death roc
erf In the Infantile paralysis epidem?
ic ff'ja broken today, the health de
pgftment reporting thirty-nine chil
fftji no having succumbed to the dls
ejsjsje wet hin the last twenty-four hour*.
4% hundred and thirty-four new cases
are ro sorted. The quarantine hi
tightening in the border States.
OKRMiiNS RETREATING IN EAST
i by Rejell mi Austrian*
mum arc Retiring on
Petrograd, July 12.?T'.e Austrlans
gag Oer mans in Volhynht are rt treat?
ing.. The Teutons were compelled to
fall bath to avoid a big section of
their at my being cut off or captured
favouring six days of. steady attack?
ing gioi) g the Up* river. The Russians
exceed the Li'pe> by constant batter
lie defeat of the Teutons opens
I for /Further advances against
envy captures along the Li pa.
VILLA ACTIVITY BECOMES SE?
RIOUS,
Perwhini Alarmed at Raids Being
by Forces of Bandit Chicf
Waahlngton. Jury 22.?The State de?
partment has Instructed Consul
U od gen to call the Curranta govern?
ment's attention'to the reported ac?
tivity of Vila. Pershlng's dispatches
nay that Villa activity is becoming se?
rious.
POLICE DISCOVER ( LUE.
Statement In Diary May Re?
veal Mystery Connected With Wo.
aun t Death.
Boston. July 22.?The police din
covered in Dr. Cella Adams' diary an
entry concerning her relations with
Dr. Atwood, hor fiancee, which may
solve the mystery of her death.
GERMAN ATTACKS REPULSED.
Aeroplanes Bombard French Positions
??German Airman Brought Down.
Paria July 22.?Tho enemy's sur?
prise attack at Laflllc Morte were re?
pulsed. A violent bombardment Is
progressing In sectors of the Fleury
and Fumln wood. The German? af?
ter a sharp bombardment attacked the
French positions on the northeastern
side, hut were repulsed. A German
seroplane was brought down near
Mcts. German aviators bombarded
Belfort unsueeewsfully.
BRITISH STEAMER SUMMARISED.
Artillery Duels in Komme Region?
Heavy Romhnrdmcut In Four-Euux.
Ix>ndon. July 22.?Artillery duels
were In progress through the night on
the Somme front. No Infantry en?
gagements are reported. The British
and German i>osttlons In the Four
Raux sector were heavily shelled. The
British steamer Wolf was unk, prob?
ably by a submarine, in the North
WILL GIVE < RAIT FREE HAND.
Count Zeppelin Says Tluit Air und
Submarine Craft Vre to lie Turned
I.OOM*.
London, July 21.?A dispatch from
Berne says that Count Zeppelin in
e. caking lO workmen at Kriedrh hs
haven said: "Have good news. Kais?
er haH given his advisers a free hand
regarding the use of air shlpi and
eubmsrlnes snd vital blows will soon
be struck."
GAT IIEBING ON FRIDAY QUITE
DIFFERENT FROM SESSION
OF TWO YEARS AGO.
Cnmd Orderly and Attentive?Bas?
ket Dinner Is Served?Candidates
Receive Liberal Applause.
Rtdgeland. July ?1.?The "State
campaign meeting wa? called to order
by W. A. Sauls, county chairman, at
11 o'clock today under the large
spreading oaks on the high school
grounds. The R*iv. J. M. Sullivan
opened the meeting with prayer. The
crowd waa jolly and each candidate
received respectful attention. Judging
from the cheering the crowd was
mostly Blease. with Manning and
Cooper tied for second place. The
meeting today wa|i a marked contrast
to the meeting here* two years ago,
when u free-for-all fight was Indulged
in while Attorney General Peeples was
speaking.
The first speaker was D. W. McLau
lin, candidate for State Treasurer. 8.
\% Carter, the Incumbent, was lato In
i arriving from Beaufort and lost his
place on the programme.
For Secretary of State George W.
Wightman and W. Bank Dove spoke
and were well received.
For railroad commissioners the
candidates spoke in the following or?
der: Messrs. Thrower, Fant, Cansler,
Kelly and Hampton.
\ Lieut. Gov. Bethea defended the
Ford peace expedition to Europe,
pleaded for harmony and urged that
factionalism be abolished. His op?
ponent. Dr. Adams, was late in ar?
riving and did not make any speech.
John T. Duncan spoko.
dev. Manning was the next speaker.
He stated that the paramount issue
before tho people Is the enforcement
and respect for law and order; that it
must , be respected, and, would be re?
spected if he was re-elected governor,
as it had been done during his pres?
ent administration. He discussed the
tax situation, the Improvement at the
asylum, and told at length what he
had done to relieve the suffering of
its inmates. He was freely applauded.
R, A. Copper waa the next speaker.
TOO* ?tifed *at the leaning that he
was in the race solely on his own mer?
its and not at the solicitation of any
man or party of men. He urged that
the farmers use every effort to develop
their agricultural resources. He .said
he favored the State supervising the
aystcm of warehouses. He ended his
speech with a plea for education, and
stated that he was in favor of de?
nominational colleges being allowccTan
equal showing with State colleges
where free tuition was concerned. Mr.
Cooper was loudly applauded.
Ex-Gov. Blease next spoke. He ar?
rived from Beaufort about three min?
utes before his time to speak. He
spoke favorably of the State ware
hotts*- system, advocated a rural cred?
it system, 6 per cent, interest and bien?
nial scsions of the legislature. He
criticised the creation of new offices
and characterized the present admin?
istration as being the most lawless
and extravagant in the history of the
State. He closed his speech with a de?
fence of his pardon record. He was
applauded frequently during his speec
applauded frequently during his
speech and received an ovation at the
Conclusion.
J. M. DesChamps was the last
speaker. Ho pleased the crowd with
his witty remarks and unusual cam?
paign speech.
A basket dinner was served on the
grounds to the crowd, estimated from
seven hundred to one thousand.
RENEW AKSAII/TS AT VERDUN.
I
! -
I VosgcH and Verdun Scenes of Attack,
But Teutons are Beaten Back.
Paris, July 22.?The Germans re?
newed their assaults oil tho Verdun
J front last night, but were beaten off.
Simultaneously the Germans attacked
the Kreuch position in the Vosges
; mountains, hut were beaten off by the
tire from the French infantry and cur?
tain* tire Horn the French.
settlement with Mexico.
Agreement Reached to Refer Dis?
puted Questions to Commission.
Washington, July 21.?The Unite!
Stntcs will accept the suggestion of the
dclacto government of Mexico for ?
settlement by a commission of three
of the questions outlined in the Mex?
ican note of July 11th. The State de?
partment will Insist In turn on the
aeOOptanoe by the Mexicans that the
commission bind the Carranxistas t<>
insure adequate protection of the
American border from the Mexican
side. The finding of the commission
Is suhject to the approval of both gov?
ernments.
Trains Over Coast Line Bridge at St. Ste
phens Annulled.
Coast Line Train No. 32, Augusta to Florence, First to Pass
over Santee River Last Night, after Test Had Been Made
Many Trains Going over Track now?Governor Stuart of
Virginia Marooned in City?Schedule Between Sumter and
Columbia Inaugurated?Wateree Rising Again?Crest
Reached at Santee?Seaboard Train Derailed.
From The Daily Item, July 24.
The Coast Dine track at Remini wan
opened to traffic last night, after be?
ing closed since last Tuesday afternoou
*t 6 o'clock. Train No. 32 from Au?
gusta to Florence, which was tho last
train to pass over the river before
trains were annulled because of high
water on the Santee at this point, was
the first to come over when the wa?
ter had gone down sufficiently to air
|low traffic to be resumed. The an?
nulling of trains over the Coast Dine
main lino between Lanes and Charles*
ton bocause of tho high water on the,
Santee at St. Stephens was the 'othe*
important feature in tho everts ofj
'Sunday, resulting from the subsidjpgj
and rising flood at the two diltedmtj
[joints. Little change was rePjH?
elsewhere. The on y other lmpdTBMK*
news of tho day was the repor$?n?,
the Wateree was again risiiig^pfeq
that it was probable the work on tx>4
Wateree trestle at Wedgcticld ?n^Aie
Sumter-Columbla lino might nave*^ft
be abandoned temporarily because the
water there was again rising.
With the opening of the Remini
crossing of the Coast Line over the
Ssntee the threatened congestion, re-;]
suiting from the closing of the San- j
tee bridge at St. Stephens was rellev-.'!
ed. Trains which had been operating
by way of Florence, Lanes and Char^
leston or Sumter, Lanes and Charles??
ton to the south were detoured byi
Sumter, Orangeburg, Denmark an*
*a*?1mah:* Wo^K*1 luallW?aW
Line trains imd through Seaboard Air
Line trains from New York to Jack?
sonville were detoured over this route.
The long string of cars which have
been on the track at Remini ever
since last Tuesday night, when they
were put there to hold down the track
when the water rose, were hauled off
the track and every part of the track
was gone over and found intact. A
severe test was given the track by
bumping the cars about on it for
some time, when the double header
engine pulled out for Sumter. There
was a big crowd of people at the
Sumter station when the long train
pulled in and they saw with interest
the water marks on the cars, where
the flood had come to at its highest.
After the string of coal and box
cars was pulled off the passenger train
did not come over the trestle right
away. Two long freight trains were
operated over tho trestle and suffered
no ill effects. In fact the track seem?
ed practically as good as ever, except
that it made many of tho passengers
nervous to see the swift water almost
up to the rails, seemingly anxious to
devour them, as No. 32 slowly made
its way over bridge and trestles.
Following another freight train was
sent over tho river, then a long A. C.
L. through train from New York to
Jacksonville, which had been sent by
Sumter, following the close of the
bridge over the Santee at St. Steph?
ens. A. C. L. train No. 37 from Sum?
ter to Augusta was sent over the line
and a Seaboard Air Line train from
New York to Jacksonville, which had
been marooned in the city most of
the day, was allowed to pass. Today
the regular trains between Sumter and
Augusta are being operated on this
line and four Seaboard Air Line
trains, two north and two south, are
being operated, besides tho through
Atlantic Coast Line trains between
New York and Jacksonville, which
rare now using this route.
In addition to these trains a service
has been inaugurated between Sumter
and Columbia, one train each way
operating every day. Train No. .r>l
from Wilmington ami Florence is op?
erated by way of Denmark, leaving
Sumter at 11: 1U a. in. where it is
transferred to the Southern Railway
tracks. The return train leaves Co?
lumbia at 4:1"? i?. in. and comes by
way of Denmark. It had been hoped
to operate trains by way of Cumden
over the Northwestern and Seaboard
Air lane tracks, hut owing to the rise
in the water there it has been Impos?
sible to sufficiently complete the Sea
hoard Air Line bridge at Camden to
allow trains to pass and this idea had
to be abandoned, This route would
have been much shorter than the one
which has bq?n taken.
R&por&this morning indicated that
the crest had reached the A. C. L.
bridge at St. Stephens. The water
there was over the tracK, which was
befng held down by a long line of coal
cars heavily loaded with sand and no
serious damage was expected. Trajn
Nq. 52 passed over this track Sunday
morning and shortly thereafter trains
over this bridge was annulled. At
the time No. r>2 passed over, the water
was up to the crossties and still rising.
At Camden Junction on the Wateree
'ft aras learned that the water is again
riamgjlhere, and it is feared that it
will' force a cessation of the work of
repairing the trestle, which was wash?
ed away there. This work had been
?tatted as the water receded. How?
ever, no further damage to tho trestle
is expected from the present rise in the
river. At Camden the water was at
2ft feet, it was stated this morning,
jutd, still rising, but only very slowly.
While this had forced the Seaboard
Air Line gang to suspend work for a
While, it was not expected to rise any
higher, or sufficiently high to inflict
anyturther damage. Three men were
into the tlood on Saturday,
ilng and drowned in the' stream
Working on the Seaboard Air
bringe.
a Southern Railway sustained
J^uch less damage than w: ax
,Jt?n their Kingvllle-Marlon line
-Only jon? smalt
trestle was washed away, it was learn?
ed. All of the' rest of tho trestle was
intact and this small damage will be
speedily repaired.
Governor Stuart in The City.
Sunday shortly after noon a through
!Seaboard Air Line train between New
York and Jacksonville arrived at the
I'Seaboard station and was marooned
there for the day, getting out by way
of Kcmini late at night. The train
had twelve cars, live day coaches, mail
and express cars and five Pullmans.
The Pullman cars were loaded with
tourists, who were carried much out
of their way on their trip to Southern
points. On board the train were Gov.
Stuart of Virginia and several mem?
bers of his staff, who were on a trip
connected with personal business in
Southern Georgia. One of the mem?
bers of Gov. Stuart's staff was Col.
Lee Paschal, one of the men who built
the Claremont Hotel In this city.
A detachment of seventy-seven re?
cruits in the coast artillery service
were also on board the train, travel?
ing in two cars from Columbus, Ohio,
to Fort Screven, Ga., just outside of
Savannah. They were in charge of
Sergeant Quackendoll and a corporal
of the United States army. There
were also several men from the naval
training school at Norfolk, who were
on their way to their hoiv.e in Geor?
gia on furloughs.
This morning ore of the Seaboard
Air Line trains while being transferred
from the Coast Line track to the Sea?
board Air Line track was derailed at
tho switch at Boat Calhoun steet. The
rail turned and two of the cars were
off the track. The track had to he rc
placed and strengthened before the
cars, a Pullman and the dining oar,
were replaced on the track, so that
the train could proceed.
MAKES ADDRESS AT HOCK HILL.
Hock Hill Herald, .Inly 22.
The quarterly meeting of the Cham?
ber of Commerce was held Friday
evening, Dr, s. H, Edmunds, of Bum
ter, being the speaker of the occa?
sion. Owing to the fact that the con?
gressional aspirants were speaking
also, the meeting was an abbreviated
affair, consisting of Dr. Bdmunds* ad
dross and the election of live directors.
The following were elected: A. C.
Patterson, U F. Waldrop, .1. W.
(>'Noal, 11. Z. Thomas. .1. B. Reld.
Dr. Bdmunds spoke on < *it> Build?
ing, Though brief, the talk was a
gem and was thoroughly appreciated
by all present. The subject was pre?
sented in a concise, ami eloquent
manner and the suggestions advanced
were of a most helpful character.
GUARDS ENROLL FOR PRIMARY
ENROLMENT BOOK FROM EACH
COUNTY TO RE OPENED AT
REGIMENTAL QUARTERS.
Rifle Praetiee Begins?Col. Springs
Makes Statement Concerning Filling
of Vacancies in Second?Bob Gon?
zales Gets ApiM>iutment.
Camp Moore, Styx, July 20.?The
crack of rille lire, beginning about 1
o'clock today over the rifle ranse,
marking the opening or rifle practice
for the two regiments, was the only
break in the calm in which Cainp
Moore has been wrapped since last
week, when the two commands en?
camped here gave up hope of getting
to the Mexican border. Camp officials
are still without advices from the de?
partment of the cast as to their move?
ment, if any.
In order to save needless corre?
spondence, Col. Holmes B. Springs to?
day issued a statement approved by
the officers of the 2d regiment, de?
claring that in making appointments
for vacancies in his regiment he would
give consideration first of all to the
officers of his own reigment and to
"men who have seen fit to enlist in
the regiment at great personal sacri?
fice and undergo the hardship of mili?
tary life rather than those who have
i walked the streets without offering
their country their services until they
were assured of a commission." The
statement follows:
"In order that the many applications
coming to me for commissions in the
2d South Carolina infantry might be
brought to an immediate termination,
I desire to inform those interested
that any commission at this time, or
any time in the future, as long as t
am colonel during this service, will be
filled from men who have seen fit to
enlist ^n the regiment at great per?
sonal sacrifice and undergo the hard?
ships of military life. I do not expect
to recommend a man for any ot Ice
from men who have walked the streets
without offering their services to their
country until they were assured o' a
commission. If it becomes possible
that the vacancies cannot be filled
from the regiment. offcej^JpQw, hcld?>
Ing commissions in the State will be
asked to serve. The vacancy for lieu?
tenant colonel will be filled from the
majors if they desire to advance, but
in the event that they do not so. de?
sire I will probably request that a
regular army officer be given the as?
signment for the extent of this service
only, that we may have the benefit of
his instruction and experience. With
all due respect to thos.^ concerned, I
Will state that we are working for ef?
ficiency in the regiment, and the above
statement has been prompted by the
fact that each day I can hardly af?
ford the time it would take to consid?
er the applications from persons who
think they should have the commis?
sions without showing any good faith
on their part other than the idea that
they possess some political strength.
This statement is approved by the
commissioned officers of the regiment.
Col. Springs, of the 2d regiment, an?
nounced today the appointment of
Robert E. Gonzales, of Columbia, as
historian of the regiment. Mr. Gon?
zales was an editorial writer on the
Columbia State before his enlistment
in the machine gun company of the
2d regiment, and his sparkling para?
graphs in his special column of tiat
paper have given him a wide reputa?
tion.
The 1st battalion of the 1st regi?
ment went to the rille range today.
Considering the number of recruits In
i the ranks, and the fact that it was
their first day out, they turned in a
very creditable card. They used :he
100-yard range. Each mnn was gp'en
six shots at a time. He was required
to shoot these at various 'mes in a
standing position, sitting down and
lying down. The battalion shot by
companies.
The biggest Hag pole in camp was
erected yesterday on top of the hill.
Which Is adorned by the camp hospi?
tal. Today a new laundered, bright,
clean "Old Glory" lloats from the lop
of the pole, and a large white hag
I emblasoned with a big red cross waves
beneath.
The cheerful and chesty young
saw-bones and apothocarles, which
compose the hospital corps, are among
the few In camp whose days are not
darkened by the Intricacies of the
manual of arms, and who suffer no
heart pangs in keeping tiny Hecks of
rust off the barrel of one of Uncle
Sam's valuable new rlflea The knight
hospitalers have no time to wants
about the cannon's mouth, their's is
a superior function. Kor their share
they have been hard ;<t work on Utter
drill, first-aid methods and object lea
sons In the care of the wounded.
During the days of medical examina?
tion against typhoid and smallpox they
PARALYSIS AT BENHETTSY1LLE
LITTLE GIRL FOUR YEARS OF
AGE CLAIMED BY INFANTILE
SCOURGE.
Younger Child in Same Town De?
velops Case?I*rotecf Ion Measures
Taken?Reported to Slate Board.
Bennettsville, July 21.?Little Ruth,
the 4-year-old daughter of Mrs. Tom
Wright, died this afternoon from in?
fantile paralysis at the home of her
grandfather, Mr. Sam Wright, on
Fayetteville avenue. The malady was
so diagnosed yesterday and quaran?
tine established. It is said that a
younger child developed the same
trouble today. Full reports were
promptly made to local and State
boards of health, a/ Jevery known
preventative has / Jen employed
against extension / jhc disease.
NEW PART /S MEXICO.
Gen. Trevlno / J fo be at Head of
Revolution ^Irmliig for Control of
Govcrnm/ /
El Paso/ ^ly 22.?The leaders of
the new ;alist party assert that all
of nort> l Mexico with the army of
Carrar. .as is ready to support a
party that seeks control of the repub-x
lie. Gen. Trevino, the Carranza com?
mander at Chihuahua, Is reported to
be the one leading the party.
WEST WILD SEE FINAL STRUG?
GLE.
Gen. Ha ig Says Decision of European
War Will bo Made in West.
Paris, July 22.?Gen. Douglas Halg,
the British commander, in a state?
ment given out today said: "The su?
preme decision of the war will take
place on the western battlefield."
*
have seen hard service attending the
doctors in the hospital tents. The
members of the corps live on a hill,
slightly isolated from the rest of the
camp, where they have a net company
street lined with tents of the trian?
gular type. They are distinguished
I from the men of, other units by a
jt*a* oordV instoad Of the M
black of the officers Vhot.ln'e?
the enlisted men of tmr
ments.
The camp sweltered through anoth?
er very hot day today, partly relieved
in the afternqon by a feeble breese
ihat came and went by fits and starts,
Natural shade is very scarce, the few
slender pines that still retain resi?
dence In the camp site offer but
poor protection against the persistent
and unfailing sun. Camp Moore Is by
no means congested in its arrange?
ment, and a trip for any reason means
a long, hot walk. The perspiration
that has soaked shirts and trousers
for the last two days brought on a
celebration of wash day along several
company streets today. Privates and
"non-coms' could be observed hang?
ing out clothes on a line stretched be?
tween two tents, or wringing them
out of a tub, clothed meanwhile in
pleased smiles, mustaches and some?
times a blanket.
The corral where the horses and
mules of the two regiments are kept
is situated down the hill below the
cantonment -of the Charleston Light
Dragoons. The scenery thereabouts is
that of a three-reel Western drama.
The management of the corral haa
been recently taken over by the mem?
bers of the engineers company.
Men who have had experience at
clerical work have tucked themselves
ecurely into several soft berths dur?
ing the last few days. Around regi?
mental headquarters and camp head?
quarters there have accumulated her?
culean labors to be performed in keep?
ing books, making out forms, writing
letters, checking property and the
like, and men who have been in of?
fices at home have been detailed for
this work in considerable numbers?
thereby escaping long hikes, much
burning sun and a goldt-n opportunity
to chop stove wood or meander ceas
lcssly up and down a sentinel's foot?
path.
Company K. 2d regiment, from
Florence, went on a long bike this
morning over to Dixiana. a small sta?
tion on the Seaboard, about six miles
from camp.
A moving picture man from Colum?
bia spent yesterday in camp making
pictures of the two regiments and of
varying scenes on the camp site.
Tomorrow will be enrollment day at
camp. According to the rules recently
decided on by the Democratic execu?
tive committee each company com?
mander has been supplied with an en?
rolment book to enroll the members
of bis command. There will be an en?
rolment book from each company at
regimental headquarters for men who
are not from the county from which
ilie regiment comes.
