"'L- - r
jo-
Evening World Wins Long Fight for 80-Cent Gas
mam. final
mo it i on
A ."I
m Clrenlfittnn Honk Opm lo Alt.'
Clrrtititlnn lUxtUn (tprtt In
P ft I C K 0 W K C fJ M T
MEW YOIIK, TUEBDAY, APRIL 18, 1 01 fi
2 0 P A 0 K 8
PRICE ONE CENT
f t. th tffM
JIHAL
III corov
U. S. SOLDIERS ATTACKED AGAIN;
RESISTANCE HALTS VILLA CHASE
80-CENT GAS BILL PASSED
AFTER THE YEARS FIGHT
BY THE EVEN NG WORLD
Unanimous w ( liwu Meas
ure in Winhh Despite
Hitter Stand ol l.oH'isis.
C,Ull TO (K)'I:K.( )R.
Victon Moans Hit; Saving for
People of Smith Hro iklyn
and Uonev Island.
rSnscial Fram a Staff CorresDonilent
of The Uvenino Wcild.)
AI.H.VNY, lrll IS. -Th" Assembly I
uDaiiim.-tiiiy ihikpiI Uitu nfi.Tnoon the i
I til u-.i
tll'ltl Itl'l
'" ' ' " v ' l.tivrlto lilm of two hours' nxiwlw
f. .i for Coney ls..iiiil .mdlM u, ,, .,
niil.i Iti . . ik . n
Tin lull now KiM.il
.1 foi Ins mum., nr. . .ml
1
hi il. fur in il'i iihij",
t i tli, i
tin'
I
ihii.tu i :.r l.i i.i!.ituii tin' mi .ihui-i' i
'us nu' imtitiil but tJiri'i' him. .mil Inn j
v..t.w i ii,. ..n... ..ml ihJM. urt,
c.iht ! Si TliitnrH vh iitlhtP to thn
pplnrlplr tint llw I'll! DIMrlot Pub-j
ltr Sorxur Cammlimlon shmiltl ivsu-
l.tlf II Kl M K l Hill
Ttip i:iii.mb w.iiiu Ii.ih fuimlit f,'t
tliix lull fur t!ri'' yens. It i .1 111- -V ,
.mpurt.iiit iitriiKiirr IiiO.uiw II ii'il onlvj
u . 1 Ik r Biili-nlH of the .llstrlris '
nffiTtoil i.niff miiiiih of money. I'tn it
vih Imlnfrtly rofimnsllilc fur tin in-
estlpr.itlon of the I'tibllf Si-rvl.v Coin-
mlfnion. wliu-li r.willi'il 111 tlu- n'nr- j
KiilllZ.ltlv'i "f tlial lil. I'lllilic S'-t-
Irr l'i'iuinimloni'r Willt.un.i w.im
oicnl to ri Hlu-n liPcallRi of Ills failure
to allow tin' ivmiIi'ii'h .r South llrook
Jyn .mil I'oiny ImI.iiiiI relli f from tip
jktksIvi' n is rates.
T!i rut thai 111.' bill hail un.ml.
tnoiiH niipnrt 111 the Abk. tiibl;- anil
pr.i' in illy ua.iitliiioiiH mppoi't In Hi
Sen. ili mi lt lliwl iiuhsiw' ih ili'iop
tivi !n linn 1Ii1h apii.innt uii.'inlinit.v
n-oillil M"i ui to Indicate t li.tt llli'iv iih
no ..pjmMtion. It may be falil 111 all
trui'i that there ha not been In re
crnt e.i.. mieli 1I1 lirinine.1 op;n,Hi
iion t .my itie.iBU-e by lobbying rcp
riM ift liiteri- ts .m l b trih! itor
,11 pMiipiMr. Willi Hi" IoI.Ii.mk'm .11. I
till p.Ui ,,t,'H.-!s.
Tin- i:eiiliiK Woi'1,1 li.ul to nume
the bill UiroiiKli llie l.i'if'xlatuiv iifn i
the 111. inner of 11 nkillful bllllanl
iln;rr nuinliiif tin- ivorli-u (ilonB the
tall for a tecoi'il I tilt. I'libllp-dpllileil
orK.inl.,iieitiM aii'l eiliafiid of Hr""U
!y,i i.l ,1 HI the tilMl. I'alll.iiliellt.uy
1 r It K 1 , hull-lion. I1 .m, I 1 1"
hhii'i in. I UslhU liuoiMi tn lefTl 'i-
t .on w . , mi l ..Il'i ovet e'Ulie. ( If
eon ii. when the tent of Bnin 011
H em il .uiUftl HO li'KlMl.itnr l oulil be
foiiiul to Mite aoaltiNt Ihf hill. The
.fate of I he iPirlHlalol'n w ho oteil
aualti-t The I'Jvpnlnir A'orlr lull for
su.peni K'iH fur Manhattan mid
.iir.iinM Thf I'lvfiiiiiB Wi'ihl'" bill f,r
;. ne- ,,t f.iie id l'om. I.il.'liil II i
I) 1 l.i.n fi'iHoltin 111 Albany.
The 'i.l. I' bilM.lls hn . bei 11 up U"iv
f .r Kiviial wi-iUm IDll.K to iieail oif
the S Ill K.i li'UMlalioll. Tlley
in.ule 1 heir 1ln.1l ilmperatf rally last
nlKht, but falle.1 lo Keep lllll ll.flH.
nr.- in eniniiilttee. They witi' mi haul
In ful " I'l-il'iy I I 1 'iperiPllPi' tlie mi.
t riiesl of ih leal. All.' 111." I.IMU ,le
A'.he T. i'"l". I ia ' .1. u p'.' ntiii.f
1,10 KituM I'lintij "'I'li.m.i . i-IUn !
Staley, lawjer and im' Isiunt to Hum
Uarnoa In Albany, representing th
WAITE, TAKEN BEFORE
ALIENISTS, COMPLAINS
I'ni-'iiei lndici.mt Het.ni-e Menial
l.x.imin.ui.'ii Deprive- llim
it hxercise.
Dr. An mil Which Ware, ihasod
wi'li killing Imk fiither-iii-l iw .in'l
tiitt .In-law . Mr. nnil .Mm. I'fU.
with iulnon. was taken fioip tlm
Tombs to Ihe District Attorneys
o 1 h c to-day to In- runner examined
as to his Minltv. 1 1- fitn)laln'l to j
cllVl!" t'Hntilff mid Gallagher,
tvtifi rntttri! him. itt.'lt Ihe tt'ttl Wnllld .
VV'.ute hciiis uillrli linprovrd unco
1' "'"ixf"" '"'' 'lirxuc- I.. the City
1'ilnoii. Hi' w.ih ImI tn tin' Iikiiii of
, i.,...i, ,
.M!IM.I 1IT liiPHIi l tU'lMin
W .r,, v,H iiiiiHtldiii'il liy li.
M.ilion, .lUirr. .nnl (Ircfiory, .iIU'MihUs
f..r tlu) DlH'il.l Attmnty. In tin-I'rfK.
1'tH'n of Dr. K.iimih. .illiMitKt fur tho
,li f.'n.i .
y STE"L GIVES
EMPLOYEES MORE PAY
Si?i.'iiul I'1 IVr ( it'llt. IlKTCL-C ill
Wulllils Ml'.IMi SD,-
(iiki,(KHI ill ,1
Til(, t-lllt,.,i shuck Steel I'on
li)n anni.uiirf.l nnolhcr .nl-
vunet tn WiiKr of it cmiiluj i-i't
nmoiiiltlll o in n,r crilt., nffni'tlvr
.Mny 1. TIiIh folluwH 11IO per crnt. inl
vnnpf mailo In 1'iliriiiiry. Iloth to
uctlii'i rnpri'fPiU a total Inpnami In
tt.iur p.iyini'iitM of bt'twrt'ii KO.OOo.ijuO
ami jao.flfio.non.
"In li-w of tllf rontiillianrr of pitw.
Iii'iniix I'liiuliiioiiH," H'ail a t-l.'itriii. n:
!.-miii1 l .linluc Kll'i't'l II, lliiry.
I'li.iiriiinn of tin' 00111ur.lt Ion, aflrr .1
niti'tliii; of tin' I'Iiihiu'i1 t'oiiimlltcf. 10
ilay. "It 1mm liri'it ilcrlilril to niiiKu nil
vant'i'c In u-ai' ratrH ot our Iron ami
Ktci'l . 1 m 1:1 11 1 cm about 10 prr pen'.., to
l.iki- effi-rt May 1."
lrooil.Mi Uoriiimh I'oinp.iny: (letfril
Man ii;, r WimiiIiiII of the lloroiuh
1 'olllpali. , .111.I Jiimci DelotiB of ! ra
cusp, Iieail of the Stnto (las & lllei trip
Ahuiplatlon.
Wooilnll Haul: "The I'iiIiIIp Servlco
OoninileHloii of Now Vorlt, in lecom
nieiiilliiK leiciHhitlvo apllon, Im eowanl
ly. anil .urit'iuleiH pvldeme of KroMK
liu'oillpetelley, 'I'lley have Hot the
il 'i p or the pouram' to fape the lllili'u'
i'I'I .ml up for the rlitlil. IhKhlv
. i n' k.ih will nun our e,,miaiiy. We
an a tti'UKi,-llni; In t lo i'oiiierii. ha
lli: 110 eonneptioii w ith otlii'l' pin com
panies in llrooklyn, 1111, 1 the coniniiH
filon know-fi we eniinot ulauil thi.s rate.
If this bill passed will endeavor to
h.Hf the Comiulssloiicrfi Imllcteil,"
The liljr wis foinbllie of I lruul;l 11 is
hlillllk' behind the skll'ti. of the little
i' liipilliy all 1 loudly ei lines the Piles nf
Ulli'Ki'il ItljUhtiee dune to a .strilKKlill
poillpelltor Tile (.ehrnie of illonopolieii
in to I'Htnblihh tlie preeedeiit that no
matter hen- onerous ehuruoH mny bo
nor how meat prnllts bli; eumpanU'H
ore niakiim out, rates must nut be re.
bli ed b eltliM' ennimlsslon nor l,''Kl
Kit ure if it ran be .shown that mime
intle iliiiiiiiiy eninpauy r rhapF il. lb", .
at,'l planted 01 allowed r eUt ui
iiioiiuiioI) territory woiild have Us pin.
ilu umluly icUucvd.
new w wreck BERLIN ORDERS BERNSTORFF
Tiim: CONFER WITH LANSING;
o ornninn nr umr nn Arn
Passengers rriini; i;i Nii.s
Utv Witnessed Ue.nlis (it
Victims in Murninu (Jars. I ""
'Intimation domes I hrou.uli
I IVi; KNOW N Kll.l.i-U.i (ier.ird That Wishes nf United
I ix press That
commovl.ition 'I
Making Up
elescopeJ c
rain i lad Been
Lost Time.
Wit'i twenty. two stm Ivors of t tin
New 1 1 n ' I) w reek nt Itr ulffud. It. I.,
on bo.itd. tho Hilt l-Mgo llspre.'i
reached the Grand Central Terminal
early to-day. All Mini they had b,.ii
Miuken up severely In the erach, but !
only nn of thrin pumplalned of tiruitr
Injured, lie was Hubert H. Dyi.p of
I'rol Idenpe. (Mlli ials of thu New
Haven road look erne of him.
Htoilejs ot the wreek as told by I lie
survivors fhowrd that n heavy fou
prevailed nt the tune, ami Indicated
the etiKineer of the out Kdwe Impress
failed lo s"e the sUiials, which, uc
pordlni; to one of the p.isseniii'is, wcro
not afTalnst the train.
Mis. IMwnrd Wado of No. 303
West l-'orty. fifth Stu't, M.inhattiiu.
told the taoyt vivid s'nry ot tho wrepl;. I
Mrs. YV.ii'e is nn netn ts. Shu was
mot by li,r husband, who Is an actor.
I'liill a short time nco tho Waden
h.ul been appearing In "Thf Greatest
Natliin." Mrs. Wado went lo Huston
last week to upend Sunday with rela
tives, and started back for New York
last evening. She said:
"I was in ii chair pat of the express
train. 1 remember that then, was a
heavy fou outside, and hat tho train
was ruiinrqiR at an ordinary rat" of
sieed. Ah wo niproach;d llradford
hero was a blight jolt, which was
followed a few seconds Inter by a
terrlllp crash. 1 was thrown from my
eat and was bruised, but was able
to scrumblu up ami run toward a
Jcor.
"A 1 did so a porter entered tho car
and cried out that eorlhlHK was all
right. II" said tho coupling of our
conch had broken. Then 0110 of the,
frightened . si ngors in my coach
raised a window, and moans and
shrieks, which paint) to us from out
side, told us what had hapimni'd.
"In a panic we rushed outside ami
then we f,uv what had taken place.
Tho e.pri'ii. had crashed Into .1 Ima!
train and telescoped tho rear coaches.
Tho ears of our train were of steel
and not 0110 left tho track when the.
collision took place. Although tho
eng.neer of our train had been terri
bly buniud by scalding water he .vuek
lo his post and backed the lialn out
of the debris.
"Kill I hue befoie us, as wo stooj
beside our train, wo could hi u thu
blading coaches ot the lueal and hear
the cries ot tliosn imprisoned In them.
A man who was In our roach ami
who said ho w.ih f.imillur with rail,
road signalling looked at tho 0'na.
pllore and told mo it had been set
against the (III. Ildgo ppres,
"My llt.st Impulse when I heard the
.shrieks of those Itiipn.sniieii in th
blazing poaches was to rush fnrwurd
and help them. I tried to do so, but
several men scUci! im and said It
would 1m risking my llfo to go near
tho ,?ai-M."
Mere Mrs, Wado put both hands to
her head and. with tears stieamitig
i,i a her chtfekF. filed:
"Tho i membrane of tliose p.mr
pi op'i coupe. I 0), in IlwS" Itl.inm
(.Contiuuqil ou l'oiuth I'ogc)
OmUIINb UriNUItUtLHTtU
States May Ik Wet.
TKOUBLli IN Ul:ICI IS TAG.
Strong Opposition by the Anti
American I 'arty to ny
Rirther Concessions.
WASHINGTON, April is.-Count
von llernstortf, ibe German Ambas. 1
sailor, artliig uiuli r Insti tictlons from
hl. Government, will dlschss the Mib-1
mm Inn crisis In ceneral terms with j
Secretary l.anMug at I o'clock this
afternoon.
It was understood t tin 1 the Ami),
sailor had no instructions to ,IIi 11 s
imv speilllc case now in controversy
bilween the two Govcrnmontp. bu'
to take up the Hiibject broadly .iiul 10
seek the viewpoint of tho American
Government In tho present situation.
Thorn were some Indications that
Ambassador Geranl has be"ii in-
formed by the llerlln I'melgn oilice
of Its desire to meet the w-.shen of
the rnlt.il Statfs If It Is nhow n Hint 1
the Channel Mlfiimer Hiisha was do. '
stroyed by a subuiarlne. in nidation
of tho Germiin Got ernnient's instrue-
Hons, and that Count von lleriistoitt .
was iiilthoi ized to make such a state-
incut in geiienii terms to Secretary
Lansing.
Sceretar Lansing had a emir, tence j
with the President this inornlm:, and
later the completed note was placed I
before tho Cabinet.
Afti r l lie Cabinet, meeting It was
b al lied that some points had not In en
finally aureed upon, ond it n.is nn
ib rnlood there might be Mime change
ill the phraseology of t i.,,t, as
i'i.iwii up b.t I'n .s,l nt W , I .11 . It
W.IH H.i .l the pollltH left "1" II oiu;'il
be closed at any tune ,,n.l tie' cnu
llllllllc.ition sent foi w.it 'I. Ins' wiiat
thoHc points are was not i.teilid.
T 11 HEAT OF TR0VM.E
IN THE REICH ST AC
OVER V '110 AT NOTE.
IJHHLIN. April lS.-.!itag lead -
ers, who recently led
Ilu, lli-ht for
moro vigorous prosecution of tho sub
inarlno war, nro preparing to take a
hand In the now German-American
crisis, u wus learned to-daj.
They will oppose to the utmost nny
flirthei ronpesHlous to tin I 'nlted
States. If iiecessai y thej ml bre.ik
thu truce agri i d lipou a !i"t Hill"
ngil and direct open irituban against
tho Government If there ate any signs
that Germany Intends to alter her
submarine policies again to conform
to 1'iesldciit Wilson's wishes.
The situation has suddenly grown
tuoto tense) with Hie arrival of re
ports that I'lcsideiit Wilhuii alieady
has framed his new icto Germ.ir.y
and l.i about to forw rd it tn li rllti.
Though Chaticeli".- ton Ituthmann
llollweg is mippoiti"! b tho KuNer
In his duslio to maintain friendly
lelatlons with the l-intod States, olll
rials aro under the ptessuru ot a pub
lic opinion which is again growing
mno hnhllli, to Ih" liuted Status.
Cell It inn si,.,, I,,,.,. In 11,'nlli.
ii i , rui'ih li .11. i , phi . n I., a ! -in
.1,. I'll it-, i t tti.it i ,1 I nn, it- i),'. k "f
ltl, ll'llinh.l 1 ire..lii' t at J tl-l
North lill'i, tO'tl.i, uild was liiovtlitU.
NOTE DELAYED IpPHji
ARRESTED IN PLOT; ffi itl
REVOLVERS DRAWN : pfffy
Wolf Von Ijjel, Arraigned in
United States Court,
Tlircatens War.
Declaring Hint his an est would
bring about war between the piti
States and Gortuain. Wolf on I gel,
formerly sectetnry lo Cipl l'nili vin
I'.ipeu, military uttnelie of the Ger
man Kmbassy. wan arni.gned liffoie
.lodge llowt In til" Culled States
emu t In the 1'V.deral lliill.lliig.il Moon
to. day. He Is tile llflh mall 111 the
indictment found yesterday by lh
I'edernl Grand Jury charging a plot
In this clt, ctigluccicil by iiKcnt.i of
the Gorman i internment, to blow up
th" Wellnud c.'iu il In Cum la.
The others are ton I'npiii, now In
the German Seciet Si'ltbe abloiil:
"ans TatiHcher. Anieiipan agent ot
Hie Krupps and hllsbiiud of Mine,
Gadskl. the prima doiina; Alfied A.
l-'rilen and Colistanllne Cov.inl. alias
Glotannl Gonzales. Another who
llguied In the alleged plot, but js not
under indictment hi muse he will up-
pear as a Government tt linens, is
Hurst von dor Gull., nllas Hrldguian
Tnylur, who escaped e.eeutou In the
Tower of London by t olunteerliig to
come to New Yolk and tell of plots
ill which he was engaged before he
left this country last jenr.
Vein lge was arrested on a bench
warrant after a tight with Assistant
Supei intcmlenl It.ikir of 1 1 1 Dep.it i-
III, 'lit of .IllSt no llllil till'.e deputic-,
in which retolteiH wie drawn, ,t'
No. fiO Wall Slreel. Ill' i-mIhI.-iI ,ii
rcHt until ho saw ntolveis In the
hands of thu Seetet Set vice agents,
ami even then ho protested that his
ru;hts were being lnv,iib'd.
"I am nn eiuplojee ,,r the Gerni.m
KnilMSsy," he told Judge Unite, when
lie was at ralgic d In i oil. t , "and I was
arm-ted nn iinbas'iy pmperty. This
'" ui" rna. n.oai ii.w.
i -seiiin'r joii nor .tour i io i i iiiiieiu nun
in right In hold me. This outrage
will bring about Internatlonnl eompll
catloiiH which will lead to war bo
tween Germany and this country."
Judge Hone ndiis.nl him to re l iln
counsel before sii.iing ,in tiling i j :-
.-in 1 adjoiirm d a rr, ileum' n; until I
o'eloi k this afti .-mini,
C'.ntiuiipolalieolls w,la tie- air.ugn
imiit of von lge the I 'lilted Status
District Attoruey'H olllci; Kavo out a
letter will' Il has come llilo the pos.si s
slon of fioveriunent detectives.
It Is claimed Hint this litter fur
nishes documentary proof that the
plotters piiK'hasiii dvn.itiiiie n Sep.
It-mlii-r "t l"Si jear for a e.-r ain pin
pn..e. Voli d' r Golf has tistiliid that
tbe purpose n an Hie dent ri, il ii of
Ul. I" lS of ti- VV'elhlll'l Can i
I'ollowillg is a copy nf the , tt"i;
"Si pt. 5, I&15,
"13. I. tlu I'lint-dti Nemours I'owilei
ompnny. No. t0 VV'e.st Street, Now
York City.
"Geiitletnen: ltefer.ing to tele,
phone com ersa ion of entcrdny with
smiii- Mi. Clark, will vnu please ie.
i'ver in ninrer. Mr, lln liTin.ui Tiiyln ,
tin t' li !'un,rr, CiOui pounds
ii, 1. 1 ,. i ..a'. d n.iiiii'. md sen I ir .
t.,., r .l,p addiea. for pit.
ill it i. i'iit v Youi s tery trulc ,
"11. TAL'yCHUU."
i
I .it nr. m t ti'r
i inu-smt rn-DA) is
ciui m s 1" nin vim.
:
I
:
yfi". : , .vm if4t-i i
WOLF VON IGEL
GROPSEY APPOINTED
TO SUPREME SENGH
Limine! Atiorncv (dios;n tu Siicceed
MaddoN in Uro iklyn Harry li.
Lewis to He New Prosecutor.
l.s.Hvtit M lli Di.ulr.c WnrLt I
ALHANY. April 11. - Gov. Whitman
has appointed Hlstilct Attornej Crop-
(icy of HrixiklMi a Siipionie (',.111't Jus.
lice to fill the l, ".,111 , , MLS. "I bv tho
death ,,f .Samuel 'I'. M.iddot.. I'oriner
Coi:iit.i Judge I l.uii I.'. Lewis is lo
be ai.pi, lined I 'lit rift Aitiiruc.i.
'IT.i'lt tei ins will last only the year
ollt. but both Will bo i umlliblte.s nt
the regular eloelloll llevt Nolelnbor,
Ci-o.ho f i' 'i full foiiiieen year ti nn
ami Lewis lor the thiee iinnxpiied
Jems of 'he District Attorney.
VILLA DEATH REPORT
CALLED MANUFACTURED
l-abri.'.iied in J.i.ire.', den. Hell's
f ip'nini: ;;t bu est ",ati hi
nt SI. r.
SAN ANTUMU, T- . A pill IH.
(.ieu. Hell, it porting In. in HI I 'a so to
Major Gi-ii. I'iinstoii, gate It as Ills
opinion, after as thorough an lutes
ligation as he could make, flint the
report of Villa's ! itli had hem una
ufacturid in I unr' it. Consul Letch'.-,
who said he hud 'iffii III I'Olllti.iltllca
tmu with i iiiu.iiiiiia. hie, alsn has
failed lo terify thu report.
131. I'ASO. Tov April IS. -While
American oftli lulu In 131 I'aso this after,
m mil pili.itely expressed the opinion
that "im one smith of .luaie,-. had ever
Inai d of Iln I', ni'i v of I'.in. ho Vdln' it
v " " lM"1 '"".i,i ai I, mi, an-
'" ''"'. I" "c 'ii;,' nf
, , ,
r . m i 'ii
1,11,1 ill. i
GERMAN TORPEDO WORKS
' ARE REPORTED BLOWN UP ' lhp lrolU 111 ,1,ls can,Pal'fn' H Samn (,ruz ranch, eight mlleB north of
I'arral. Detachments aro also concentrating nt .Satevo, Namlqnlpa and
Number said t. Have Ikvn Killed ('"1""1'1 n"blan-
ml tnii, I in HI mi 11 '"' ln(',,:', "''' news of t:.e fight between Americans and Mexicans at
".'id 1 ' ,,''n'il ''' ",r,u,ll"K lht..liui City, and Gen. I'ershlns is dlspoflng
t ill'.elmsh iveil. Iiifantry, cavnlrv and .irtlllry to meet a crisis there. American troops In
LONDON. A'iril 1i. a Heuter ,-aiib . , the south everywhere are meeting opposition. Native guide are unreliable,
gram I nun Copenhagen says. ' It is further reported In thU wireless message that the German Consul
"A despatch to Urn Kleh-r Knitting 1 al ''arrnl aided in Inciting tho civilians and Carranzlstas against the
from Wllhelmshaven says tliern w.ih a ' American cavalry.
Kl'.-i,t explosion on I'rlday last In the Ueportu from Mexican sourcs to- j
new torpfio v.url.s there, .-i nunili, r of day stated tail the I'arrnI lighting jd , Kvl been r.nrniled b" .intl-pi-r"ins
lie, ng I, lie I .md . tneis hnd a tnot jiin'orti'iiH'e offe 't en the Air.ern a t md antl-c'ar-ntua agitators
touu'iel Th" noi'r- iteie 'e.e ,rv p pl- o'' N' w t hern MeMcn ,1tid had I UUo a great l.alHe In which the
jlliiihhod and wetu inspect,! ,i Km- ' greatly iiubimed thn nnti-.Vnieiiciiu Auienciiiis were badly beaten. The
veror William un Feb, "i."
BANS FIRE ON OFFICERS
NEAR GEN. PERSHING'S CAMP;
MORE ATTACKS THREATENED
Commander Stops Pursuit of Bandit
in Face of Armed Opposition and
the Situation Is Admitted to Be
Critical.
REPORT VILLA IS DEAD
DISCREDITED IN FIELD
LAMP OH ( il:N. .1. .1. MnHSHINC-r.'-AT THU l:KONT,J$$TZ..
' (In1 uii'lor ;in.I viicl.s lo Coliiiul'tis, N. M., April 18). The Amerl:;in
piir.-uit of Vill.i is ;it ;i M" ,'vti!l Kwiufi uf the unprovoked attack upon
Ameri.Mii c.iv.ilry 111:11 hy the ii:-ii!)cirdiii.:tc lolJiers ut the Carranza gar
ri im .it I'.irr.il.
A mii.iII party ot American officers was fired upon near here List
niijht, nuiii of the Americins bein injured. This, coming on the heels
ol other reports ol ynipiny;, is rcponsil'le for the belief that the expedi
tionary command is confronted with a serious problem.
At (isn. I'ehinys headquarters there seemed in prospec. nf the
rCMimiMiwIl dt tllC ClhlSC.
tinuation of tlie pur -nil would meet with armed resistance.
A report received here from Ciiran.t sources that a Villa Colonel,
eapmted near ( Jusihuiriachic, had promised to lead a party to a grave in
which Villa was '-aid tn have been buried last l-'riday is j?en:rally dis
credited by military authorities here.
Newspapers published In Chlh iiibiia City reached here to-day contain
Inn roMirt8 of thu attack upon the eomuiand of Major Frank Tompkins at
IMrrul. Appordlng Id these pnppis, Americans worn encamped In the Pltra
do San Juan, when, despite, tho efforts of the Carranza officials, the Mexi
can populace attacked them with firearms, whereupon the cavalrymen
fought back. The affair was described as being a repulse of the American.!,
since they retired to Lainmos.
The newhpnpcrs pointed out that despite the unfortunate occurrence
there win no friction between th" American ranintatider and the t'arranxa
author.tle-. In I'.irral, both ot whom were worklns to establish permanent
relation".
Kepnrts reaehliiK lime to-day from Cirrnnza sources said that a Con
stitutionalist force engaged a Villa ronimanii under (leu. Laranga.", within
few miles of this camp, two nights ago. two f'arranza soldiers and ono
Villa bandit being killed. It was a detachment of Gen Larangus'a force
that nttacknl (ion. I'ershlug's escort train near hero Tuesday night.
Protection of U. S. Troops
Overshadows Villa Hunt
I3L I'ASO, Tex., Aprl' IS. The Villa hum to-day was a secondary mat
ter, rrotection of tho United Htatos troops In Mexico Is now the main
thing.
lien. I'eishlng is understood to have made a report to that offect to
Gen. Futi.Moii.
The iiie.llon wheilier the body
C.ly is that of Villa V as still holdlnc
-
cm epe.liilon, following dtp I'a.ral incident and the withdrawal request
troin lieu Carraiua. was uppoi most In tho mluUs of anny chiefs along the
border.
A wireless from Gen. I'ersliing's advance base near Namlqnlpa ays a
contlnitent of C50 American cnvalrvmon. the Inrtroki Mm.nnir.iinn .
fteltns. Tho I'arral incident, tt was
I here were numerous indications that a con
preMiiuxbly being taken U) ChlhuaJiua
altetiflon Inn tho uf... ..f .i, a..i
" titiT .tiuno-
j Mexican deid itere accounted for a I
1
I
