v&!V"GWiJPs
iJitilQtt
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituenmn
NIGHT
EKTRA
VOL. H. NO 180
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, APRtL 18 1910
CoriBianT, 1018, t inn Pdrlio Vttxstn CouriNT.
PBIGJS ONHJtOJSN
M'NICHOL, MRE
AND MAYOR IN
HARMONY TALK
"Sun Shone Anyhow' Says
, Penrose Lieutenant, De
1 scribing Conference
PLANS KEPT A SECRET
Another Meeting Contemplated
for Bringing Warring Fac
tions Together
Negotiations to ond tho hitter wnr nnd
bring nbout penco within tho Republican
Organization, through 11 compromise be
tween tho faction headed !' Governor
UrilnlbftURh nnd the Penrose forces, were
opened suddenly this afternoon.
Mnyor Smith nssumed tho role of peace
maker and presided nt conferences held
In hla ortlco in City Hall. After tho con
ference It was announced that no deflnlto
conclusion or terms of pence had been
reached, but that further conferences
would bo held, tho next being probably
tomorrow.
Mayor1 Smith, Stato Senator .lames P.
MoNlchol and Speaker Charles A, Ambler,
who Is a candidate for Auditor General,
with the support of tho Oovcrnor and his
followers, participated at tho first confer
ence, which started at noon.
Stato Senator Hdwln II. Vnro was then
sent for, and ho and tho Mayor conferred
for half an hour.
All of tho participants In tho confer
ences, with the exception of Senator Varc,
admitted that harmony had been discussed
and gavo the Impression that today's move
toward pcaco was satisfactory from the
points of view of both camps.
"Harmony In both tho city nnd Stato
was discussed," said tho Mayor. Ho de
clined to discuss tho basis upon w hlch har
mony Is being worked out.
Which of tho two factions Is giving In
Is n mystery which none of today's con
ferees will clear up.
"Did you send for Senator McNIchol, otj
did ho como to you of his own accord
and present a plan or compromiser' mo
Mayor was asked, " v
"Well, I could not answer that question
very well," replied tho Mayor. "I occupy
the same position that I did soma time
ago. At that tlmo I did what I could as
a friend of both factions I do not caro
tosaj now who made tho overtures for
harmony now."
' Tho basis upon which peace Is being
discussed, however, according to leaders
of both factlonscalls for Speaker Ambler
remaining as tno canumnie ior Auuuor
General with tho support of both factions,
tho withdrawing of tho threatened oppo
sition to John R. IC Scott for re-election
as Congresaman-at-lnrge, and the with
drawal of three or four of the candidates
for deiogaws-at-iarge irom me i-cnrose,,
slate to make-Jway for placing uovernor
Brumbaugh. Mayor Bmlth nnd ono or two
other IlrumDaysg ueiegaieB on uio ueie-
pues-ai-jarge upnei.
Governor Brumbaugh would receive the
limpllmentary vote or tno Pennsylvania
elenatlon at tho Republican National
Convention In Chicago under tills nlnn.
Fthe Varos would Increase their strength
In Philadelphia and a lieutenant of tho
rVares and Governor Brumbaugh would
become Auditor General.
Harmon M. Kophart, of Connellsvlllo,
already has been agreed upon for State
Treasurer. Ho Is friendly to both fac
tions. --The"nrst Intimation that a compromise
was Iri the air came lato last night at a
conference held by Senator Penrose In
his office In the Commercial Trust Build
ing. Tho senior Senator read his Blate of
delegates to his principal lieutenants, In-
-eludlnir Senator McNIchol and Beveral
' Psnrose candidates, and then said that
his slate would not be filed until the last
minute tonight, because ho "expected a
compromise."
MeNICHOL VISITS MAYOR.
Senator McNIchol called upon the Mayor
at noon today. A few minutes later
Speaker .Ambler appeared, and lie wont
Into tho Mayor's office a few minutea
before McNIchol left.
McNIchol, who was acting as Senator
Penrose's agent In the negotiations, was
smiling when he left the Mayor's office.
"Were you talking transit or politics?"
he was asked.
MPol)tIcs," answered McNIchol.
"What was the purpose of your visit?"
was 'the next question.
"The Mayor and I are trying to reach a
harmony pla.nk.''
"Did you And the plank?"
"Well, we were able to look each other
In the face."
"Do you think harmony Is possible
now?"
"Harmony Is always noss'lble."
"What agreement dld-you reach?'"
opened the way for further conferences."
"More conferences will be necessary,
thent"
"Yes, I am coming in to see the Mayor
Continued on Vate Two, Column Fire
; THE LEATHER
It Is pretty clear that the months hae
a working agreement for a new division
of labor. April has taken on the windy
part of March's work, because February
shoved so much of Its winter rains on
March. We lift the window now and In
hale the sunny air and beguile ourselves
Inter (he belief that It's warm and balmy
when, plap, bansv the door slams like n
pistol shot and. papers blow wildly away
and swoop like aeroplanes into dusty cor
ners. Such methoUs.pf the weather are
spooky they are like unseen hands. But
all the signs of nature are spooky, If you
think long enough about them. Walk out
in the country ways and watch the stars
awhile; soon you will find that, however
.closely you watch them, they are watching
.you yet more closely.
The wind and the stars are monitors
that balance each other. The wind stirs
our energy, "Do something, do some
thing,' la says. But the stars warn,
"Make sure that something is good "
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity
Fair tonight" and Wednesday; moder
ate temperature fresh west winds.
For detaih see page 15.
X.OST AND FOUND
CERTIFXCATU-wt, certlncat No 845. U
u4 tr the National (lank of tha Northern
t.ttcrtloa for en h&r ot their stosk. In the
hadh ot Anna ai. jjarnourK All persona aresi
warned against negotiating- thi stock, aiij
IBS IUHJVJV WIU IC9 i-ufMuiuuicaLs wiin IRQ
jSaak of & America, 8QT Phqatnut at .I'WLa
1XAT BOX, contalnlns bat, hut on (irtrw at
betp4n Cbttte'i a and Upnal at Flutter
nteau comliiuulcite with 8 II Walsh. Jr
1510 CJwainut, (. Paon Upruc 4303 Suit- 4
t rewara.
flK Wamoud aasrt eUffBat ere bet Jlrsad
& fwkr, tau h Market Ub rew'tf John
C KiBuaultj? H tgcor Broad & Taatair
Mtkit Lett bb4 Ifaiuul As as Fasjs, U
if?. ..Jtw
,78SZ ' ft
itv jfiftfc jki
D. A. R. LEADER STRICKEN
Mrs. Donald McLean, past presi
dent general of the D. A. II., is
critically ill at the Church Home
and Infirmary, Baltimore. She
was stricken at tho homo of her
brother - in - law, Rear Admiral
McLean, in Norfolk, and after
undcrming treatment there for a
time it was decided to remove
her to the hospital, which'' was
done last Friday. Little hope is
held out for her recovery.
10,000 TEUTONS
DIE IN VAIN DASH
ON VERDUN LINE
Attack by 100,000 Germans
Yields but Few Trenches
in Chaffour Wood
FAIL TO GET PEPPER HILL
, PARIS. April 18.
Heavy losses, suffered' by the Germans
In their terrlfid attacjc on the Verdun
front yesterday nfternoon compelled them
to forego any nswilts during the night.
On Monday, smashing blows, with tho pur.
pose of capturing Chauffour wood, wero
delivered bv the Crown Prince with five
divisions of 100,000 men. The attack re
sulted In a gain of only n few trenches,,
from part of which tho Germans have al
ready been driven out.
Today's official communique states that
there was up fresh Infantry action during
the night. Tho bombardment of French
positions at Le Morte Homme (Dead Man's
Hill) and on the Cumleres front was con
tinued, however. ,
Tho fighting on Monday, acordlng to tho
official reports, was the fiercest that has
marhed the second battle of Verdun,
which opened last week. It Is estimated
that tho Crown Prince lost 10,000 men In
killed and wounded, or a tenth of his as
bailing force.
Army officers asserted today that the
Crown Prince's objective In the tremend
ous assault was the crest of "Pepper
Hill," which has been "no man's land"
since February, because tho artllle"ry of
both tho opposing forces have been able
to sweep over It, and that hlseffort was
a complete failure. To attain "Pepper
Hill," It was first necessary to take Chauf
four wood. There the Germans were
checked, leaving heaps of dead where they
were compelled to fall back and maintain
ing only a precarious foothold In certain
trenches.
The, situation nt the scene of yester
day's battle near Douaumont. on the east
bank of the Meuso. was analyzed today
at tho T'ar Office as follows;
On AprH 4 two German divisions
(40,000 men) making an Important of
fensive movement In the Douaumont
Haudromont region sustained a bloody
Continued on I'aie Four, Column VIto
CRACKSMEN FILCH $1
FROM P0ST0FFICE SAFE
Newtown. Robbers Overlook a
Few Hundred Stamps--De-tectives
Work on. Clues ,
Cracksmen blew open the safe of the
postolllco ut Newtown. Bucks County,
early today, awakening nearly every res
ident of the town, but finding less than
jl as a reward for their efforts. The
thieves used an unusually large quantity
of jiltroglycerln, causing a concussion that
shook stores and residences nearby,
About 2 o'clock this morning John
Mitchell, tha postmaster, who Uvea more
than a quarter mile away, was startled
out of his sleep by the report. He at once
guessed the nature of the trouble and
ran. half dressed, to the scene o the
robbery. He Jqund the Iron vault, which
was about three feet hlh, broken Into
bits, with debris scattered about the
floor.
Only cash was taken, the desperadoes
apparently overlooking' several hundred
2-cent stamps.
Postal Inspectors from this city- and
Trenton are working on the easy, under
the direction of Inspector JnniesI). Cor
telyou, of Philadelphia, They have gained
a alu3ble clue from E. H Morrison, a
Newtown clothier
Morrison waa the first to reach the
scene of the robbery, lie arrived in tjme
to see men running within a short dla-
nance of the; postofflce. Although he fol-
lowed them and was unaoie to apprenena
them, he was able to give an Incomplete
description of them to the detectives.
Thin postofilce was entered forcibly
last year and the safe was blown, but on
that occasion the thieves were more for
tunate In their findings, It is believed,
the perpetrators Qf today's robbery we
werabera f the gang that tia, been blowing-
,u ates throughout Pennsylvania, re-
ceafcly
GERMAN CAUGHT,
AFTER FIGHT, AS
CANAL PLOTTER
Von Papen's Ex-Aid Ar
rested in New York.
Fifth Held
CLAIMS EMBASSY SHIELD
Defies Arrest and Declares It
Means U. S. War With
Germany
NnW'YOttK, April 18. After a dei
pcrnto fight between Kedernl agents and
four Germans today on tho 2Bth floor of
00 Broadway, Wolf von Elgel, former sec
retary to Captain on Pa, en, of the Ger
man Embassy, was arrested on n charge
of conspiring to blow up tho TV'elland
C.innl,
Von llgei nnd his thrco companions
wero subdural only after the Kedernl
ngents had drawn their reolcrs and
threatened to shoot.
Then von Klgel, who Is said to lime
carried on tho German bomb conspiracies
for Captain on l'npen, grow furiously
nngry, and declared thnt his arrest would
mean war between the. United States and
Germany.
DEFins AnrtEST,
"This Is German soil," he cried "You
have no right to come In this room. It
Is under tho protection ot tho German
Embassy."
Ho became losi defiant when Agents
Stork, linker, Underbill and Gurtlch
threatened to handcuff him nnd begged so
hard thnt they allowed him to walk be
tween them to tho Federal building.
When the officers entered n Elgcl'n
offico, which Is tho ono Captain von Pnpen
used before being sent back to Germany
by the American Goornment, thoy found
on Elgel, George on Skoal, formerly
publicity agent for Captain on Papen nnd
now engaged In propaganda work, and two
other husky Germans there.
PAPERS HELD IN SAFE
Von Elgel hastily threw a mass erf
papers Into a big safo In n corner ns tho
agents opened tho door. No attempt was
made to arrest von Hiatal and tho other
two agents, nor did tho ngents open tha
safe, which bore tho German Embassy
seal upon Its door.
When taken boforro Federal Judgo Howe,
von Elgel refused to plead to tho Indict
mont. Ho declared he was not represent
ed by counsel, and nlso that tho Govern
ment had no right to arrest him, as he was
connected with tho German Embassy. He
protesteu against tno seizure of any pnpers
In his Wall street office, saying that was
ambassadorial toritory and Inviolate.
ADVISED TO GET COUNSEL.
Judge Hough advised von Elgle to pro
euro counsel at onco. He adjourned the
hearing until 4 p. m. that tho prisoner
might get a lawyer, and told him hla
rights would be safeguarded
Von KIglo was Indicted .yesterday -with
-von Papon, Captain Hans Tauscher, hutF"
oanu, ot Diaaame uncisKl, and others In
connection -with plots to blow' up the
Wellahd Canal and put bombs upon Allied
ships. Ills narne' was kept secret until
today, however.
MOORE SAYS SMITH
WENT TO M'NICHOL
FOR MAYORALTY JOB
Says He Had "Bee Buzzing in
His Bonnet Six Months ,
Before 'Deal' Was Put
Through"
CALLS HIM AN INGRATE
Mayor Smith had "the mayoralty bee
buzzing In his bonnet" six months before
the "deal" put through by tho Vares
assured him of the Organization nomina
tion. To secure the nomlnntlon he at
many times asked friends of Senator Mc
NIchol to Intercede with tho Senator In
his behalf. ,
County Commissioner "Bob" Moore.
Organization leader of the 4th Ward and
one of the storm centres of the bitter
factional fight now raging between the
Vares and the Penrose-McNIchol wing
for the control of the party organization
In the State, made known these facta to
day following Mayor Smith's continued
silence on the Commissioner's charge that
the police have been put into politics.
SMITH VISITS MOOHC,
Shortly after Mayor Smith waa In
augurated he paid a visit to Mr. Moore,
according to the latter, who quoted the
Mayor's conversation.
Said the Mayor; "I consider you an
annex to my olllce. If anybody harms a
'hair of your head or hurts your people,
come to me and I'll fix it right."
When Commissioner Moore asked him
what he desired In return, the .Mayor, he
said, replied that he would like to be sure
of a, Councilman In the Ah Ward, Some
time elapsed, and the Mayor paid no more
visits to MrU Moore until a short time
ago, before the Ambler fight began. Then
on seeing Mr. Moore the Mayor Is reputed
to have said: "I didn't ask you for any
thing more because you were a friend of
Jlm'a (McNIchol). I knew how close you
two were together and I didn't want to
ask you to be for Ambler,"
The Commissioner thenr referred to
several trips on which Mayor Smith was
the host to Senator McNJchol, before he
was nominated. Among these reported
trips waa one to Florida and another to
Cleveland, on both of which Mr. Smith
was more" than cordial to Senator Mc
NIchol and acted the part of a friend.
DISCUSSED MAYOHAIvrr,
"Was the mayoralty situation discussed
then, Mr, Moore?" he was asked.
'I should say so," was his reply.
'3m!th had the bee buzzing in his bon
net a hair year before his candidacy was
announced."
The nomination, then, was not thrust
upon hlra by thd politicians?"
Mr. Moore smiled rather ironically at
the question and said nothing.
"Would you term the Mayor, ungrateful
for 'throwing down' his friends?" waa the
next query.
The Commissioner looked at the celling
and nuotdt to nobody in particular, a
selection from Abraham Lincoln's favorte
poem'
" 'Man's ingratitude to . man makes
countless thousands mourn.' "
Mr Moore, however, later pointed out
that the Mayor had been given his first
business when he entered Into his bonding
enterprise by Senator McNIchol t"t jbat
the Senator's kindness to him had fete
tlsutil ta Face Tn. I'tila-aa" ttm
TALE OF VILLA'S DEATH HOAX,
SAYS FUNST0N; ORDERS HUNT
TO PROCEED DESPITE MENACE
American Troops Forced to Flee North
ward Because,of Growing Mexican
Hostility, But Concentration
at Satevo Is Probable Move
Criticism of Carranzistas Said to Have Been Made by
Pershing in Report to Cabinet-U. S. Gives No Indi
cation of Withdrawing Forces at Present.
"Villa's Body" Delayed in Transit
WASHINGTON, April 18. Sharp criticism of thu Carranza forces
encountered in Mexico, it is understood, was brought Before, the cabinet meet
ing today. It was contained in the official reports of General Pershing,
commnndcr of the punitive expedition. It is understood that Gcjicrnl Pershing
emphatically dented that at any time the Carranzista commanders had co
operated with him in his chase for Villa and that he nlso had reason to be
lieve they had done everything possible to embarrass the movements of the
American forces.
It was made plain after the meeting that at present there would be no
change In the orders "to get Villa." Various members of thq cabinet indi
cated that they had not accepted the reports that Villa was dead as true.
Major General Funston is convinced that the story of Pnncho Villa's
death is n hoax and is proceeding with the punitive expedition, trying to
make the best of a situation now rendered precarious by the long lines of
communication. Troop movements indicate a concentration at Satevo, and
the campaign may be directed from that point.
The American troops now pursuing Villa have been forced to retreat 50
miles to the northward because of growing hostility of the Mexicans in
southern Chihuahua. General Pershing himself has returned to his old
field base at Namiquipa.
The three forces which concentrated nt Santa Cruz, eight miles west of
Parral, nfter the battle in that city, are believed to have fallen back toward
Satqyo. This point now nppears the southern limit of thef expedition.
Carranzistas are reported to have seized a train of American supplies
dispatched from El Paso to the Pershing expedition.
These facts, coupled with the Carranza treachery at Parral and tho
failure of the Mexicans to produce the body of Villa, supposed to be on its
way to Chihuahua City, rendered the Mexican "situation extremely grave.
VON BERNST0RFF
WORKS TO AVERT
.JBHEAfeC- SJIRI
Envoy Will Again Assure
1 . t- t trrMl?
Lansing isernn wining
to Compromise
AMERICA STANDS PAT
WASHINGTON', April 18.
A strong effort to prevent nn open break
between Germany and the United States
Is being made by Count Von Dernstorff,
tho German Ambassador. Ho made an
appointment to confer with Secretary
Lansing late this afternoon, and It is
understood will again give assurances
that Oermany Is rendy to meet the United
States more than half way In nn effort
Xo end the controversy. It watt Insisted
following today's Cabinet meeting, how
ever, that this Goernment would gtnnd
pat on Its declaration that, unless Ger
many shall glvo nssurapces that she will
live up' to the demands of International
law In nil future submarine operations,
friendly relations will "no longer be main
tained. Although It la understood that Ambassa
dor 'ion DernBtorft has received several
lengthy code messages from hla home
Government, he declined to say whether
he has been given authority to make new
promises to the United States. He said,
however, that he still was hopeful that a
way out -Bill be found thnt will satisfy
all parties.
Offlclals In German circles this after
noon were firm In the belief that a break
In diplomatic relations with the United
States would mean war. They asserted
that there could be no half way ground.
One high oftlclal In diplomatic circles out
lined tha derman viewpoint as follows;
"Germany spared passenger ships going
from America to England to please the
United States. In case diplomatic rela.
Continued en I'aie Tour, ColamnVrwe
LOVE FINDS A WAY OUT
OF WAR'S OBSTACLES
Teuton Sympathies Against Al
lied Leanings Almost Spoil Ro
mance of Collingswood Pair
A romance thatcame near being shat
tered because war broke out In Europe
Is pow firmly Intrenched behind a mar
riage ceremony at Collingswood, s'. J.
When the war began in Europe a gap
opened between the family of William
II, Shull, of Ul Lees avenue, Collings
wood. and, Henry Gill, of 501 Lincoln ave
nue, Collingswood. The sympathies of the
Shull family went with Germany; those
of Jhe Gill family with England. But
love Is mightier than the forces which
shape the destinies ot nations. That is
whv Henry GUI. Jr.. and pretty 18-year-
old Myrtle Shull, members of the estranged
houses, dm not oreaK on aipiomauc re
lations." With the aid of "spies" they
continued to see each other, although Mlsa
Shull's parents forbade her to continue
seeing young G(H- Then they became
engaged.
What Is more, they were married Sat
urday night, while Mlaa Shull's mother
was away on a visit. They went to the
Baptist parsonage,, at Maple and Washing
ton avenues, and were 'man led by the
Rev Frank Anderson The witnesses were
George Uulle and Miss Anna Wrlgglns.
Then the bride and bridegroom and the
two witnesses went to me movies,"
Mr. and Mrs. Henry QUI, Jr . are living
with the young husband's- father. Who la
a wejl-to-uo contractor, until a nousa can
be built for themby Mr. au Be. as a
wedding gift. Mrs. GUI, Jr. is a grad-ualo-j
the JH, Ci joit lUgh j&hogLr'i
FUNSTON DISCREDITS TALE
OF VILLA DEATH; HUNT GOES ON
SAN ANTONIO, April IS Major rjen
eral Funston Is convinced that FrnncHco
Villa is not dead.
"Wo are going nhend lust as though
we hod never heard the roport," saUK
Major General runston todayi "Gerfcral
Hell at El I'a so ran got no confirmation
and bellove that the report Is a hoax.
Ho thinks that the story wan hatched In
.luarcx."
On receipt of tho dispatch from Gen
eral nell army odlcers directed n renewal
of the search for tho bandit leader.
General Bell officially reported to Major
General Funston declaring his belief that
tho entire story of Villa's body having
been found was a fabrication and orig
inated at Juarez.
A statement fiom Consul Letcher, at
Chihuahua, further discredited tho story
asserting that dispatches from Cuslhulr
achla mado no mention of tho body.
Early advices Jo headquarters told of a
gathering of scattered American detach
ments near Snteo Indications pointed to
resumption of the bandit hunt on a scale
limited to conform to tho present line of
communications. This was believed to
mean that Funston Intended making the
best of the facilities at hand meantime
hoping for permission to use the Mexican
railways or sanction for a new line with
the American base near Presidio, Tex.
AMERICANS RETREAT FIFTY
MILES NORTH IN MEXICO
EL PASO, Tex., April 18. American
troops In southern Chihuahua have re
treated more than 50 miles northward
owing to evidence of Increased hostility on
the part of the Mexicans toward the pur
suers of Francisco Villa and lack ot sup
plies. This Information, which came from
reliable sources, reached military author
ities at Fort Bliss today. Mexican ani
mosity Is now preventing he United
States troops from purchasing food that
they were able to get with American gold
In northern Chihuahua.
General Pershing, who had gone to the
front to direct the actual hunt for Villa,
has returned to his base near Namtqulpa.
There he Is making plans to meet the
critical situation thnt has arisen and is
awaiting replies to certain recommenda
tions which he has transmitted to the
American Government through Major Gen
eral Funston.
During his return ride to Namiquipa
base, according to advices recehed from
Columbus, an attempt was made by Mex
icans to assassinate General Pershing and
his escort, which consisted of a small
troop of cavalry. Just as the Pershing
party reached the outskirts ot ProUdencta
Mexican snipers opened Ore on the detach
ment.
The Americans dismounted Instantly
and returned the Are. Most ot the snipers
were silenced. Those who continued to
fire were driven from their adobe shelters
by soldiers who crept upon them and
ejected them by a flank fire. TJie Amer
icans are reported to have taken several
prisoners without suffering any losses in
killed or wounded. The detachment then
continued, Its Journey northward.
Detached columns ot cavalry are oper
ating Bouth of Satevo, but only so far as
rations for man and horse can ha carried.
The three detachments' that met at Santa
Cruz, ejght miles from Parral, now have
left there and probably fallen back on
the line at Sateo.
Genera) Funston explained that the
country In that district was barren, of
foodstuffs and that unless the columns
had gone back to Parral their return to
Cantlaiud oa P Flu. Celunro One
WIS NOT TOO LATE
to, begin reading the notable serial story
UNDER THE fllOONS OF
MARS
now running in the Evenino Ledqer.
Today's Instalment of this thrilling
story, which has attracted much fa
vorable comment, is preceded by a com
prehensive synopsis ot the chapters al
ready printed, which enables tha reader
to pick; up the thread- of the tale with
this iasue.
QUICK
NORSE SHIP SUNK BY U-BOAT? CREW SAVED
COPENHAGEN, Apill 18. Tho Norweginu Bhlp TusnnstarC lias'
been sunk by a subrhnrinc. The crew was saved.
$25,000,000 ARMS COMPANY INCORPORATED
i
DOVEK, Del., April 18. Tho Hammond Armi Company, tov
manufacture and sell small arms nnd war munitions of all hinds, was
Incorpoiated hero early this afternoon with a capital otock oi ZS),
000,000. The incorporators were Herbert E. Latter, Norman V. Cot
jjn, Wilmington, Del., and Clement M. Eguer, Elktou, Jtfd.
ARCHBISHOP ACQUIRES HIGH SCHOOL SITE
Settlement for ground nt the corner of 49th and Chestnut streets the site of
the new Boys' Catholic High School of West Philadelphia, wna modo today at
tho Commonwealth Trust Company. Archbishop Edmond F. Prnderghst took
tltlo to tho property for tho sum of $47,500, the tltlo passing from tho Jtobort
Craig Company. Tho lot la on tho northwest corner and is 250 feet by 214 foot 6
Inches. Tho salo was negotiated for Archbishop Prendergost by John N. Mo
Garvcy. The new high school will be modern In ovcry detail ami Is expected to
bo ready for occupancy In the fall.
FORD CONFERENCE NAMES TERMS FOR PEACE
STOCKHOLM, April 18. Kcstorntton of Belgium. Serbia, Montenegro and
the occupied part of France, tho creation of Poland Into a frco State, universal
disarmament and tho establishment of an International tribunal for settlement
of disputes nro demanded In an appeal to the Governments and peoples of the
Imlllgcrent Powers by the Ford Peuco Conference, which was mado public today.
SEVERE EARTHQUAKE RECORDED AT WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON, April 18. A very severe earthquake, lasting for live min
utes, was recorded on tho seismograph at Georgetown Uplverslty Just after mid
night. It was estimated that the disturbance took placo about 4200 miles from
Washington.
SUBMARINE SINKS RUSSIAN BARK; CREW SAVED
LONDON, April 18. The Russian bark Schwnnded, 844 tons, has been
torpedoed and sunk by n German submarine. Tho crew was saved.
TURKISH SUBMARINE DESTROYED IN BLACK SEA
LONDON, April 18. A Central News dispatch from The Hague stages that
a Turkish submarine has been destroyed by a mine off Trcblzond In tho Black
Sea, tho entiro crow perishing. Four now submarines nro reported to have fceen
sent to Turkey from Germany.
,. ' WAGE INCREASE FOR 800 SAFETY-RAZORMA,KER8
BOSTON, April 18. The Gillette Safety Itazor annourtqes an adyanca of 10
per cent, In pay of all wage-earners effective April 20, li16, which will affect
nbout 800 operatives and Involves uhout $40,000 per year.
BULGARIAN SPY EXECUTED AT SALONICA
SALONICA, April 18. A Bulgarian convicted of espionage was" executed here
today. Another Bulgar is awaiting trial. They were caught spying on tho
Allies.
BRITISH AGAIN DEFEATED ON TIGRIS
LONDON, April 18. -British forces south of the Tigris River In Mesopotamia,
have been driven back 800 yards by tho Turks, tho Wnr Offico admitted today
In an official statement. Tho English troops In question aro part of the army
of General Sir Percy Lako which Is trying to relievo tho army of General
Townshend.
CROWN PRINCE "ESCAPES" EXPLODING SHELL
GENEVA, April 18. The report has reached here th"h,t the German Crown
Prlnco bad another escape from death or Injury, recently 6n the Vordun front.
Accompanied by his staff and a number of correspondents, he approached
within range of tho French guns, one of wliohe shells exploded near the party.
I Is said several persons wero wounded slightly and that others, including Colonel
Mueller, correspondent of tho Berne Bund, were knocked down.
GERMAN COAL ON NEUTRAL SHIPS BANNED BY BRITISH
LONDON, April 18. Neutral shipowners have been warned by the Brit
ish Foreign Ofllce that all cargoes or bunkers of coal of German origin In neu
tral ships will be liable to selzuro under tho Order In Council of March 11. Neu
trals are advised to obtain certificates from British consular officers showlrtr
that coal In their Bhlps did not Originate' in Germany.
HARRY WITTIG HAS PNEUMONIA
Harry "Wlttlg, secretary of the Uepubllcan City Committee and scrgeant-at-arms
of Select Council, is seriously 111 with pneumonia nt his home, 1428
Arch street. Mr. Wlttlg Is widely known in political circles throughout the
State, and it Is said that he has more detailed knowledge of the 1300 election
divisions in the 48 wards of Philadelphia than any other person. His absence
is felt keenly at this time, when leaders looked to himfor aid In the preparation
of nomination papers.
FIRST DELAWARE SHAD'OF SEASON CAUGHT
The first Delaware shad of the season were caught off Chester and tho honor
for the highest catch goes to Frost Webster, who landed 40 of the fish. Ben
jamin Smith was a close second with 38. Reports from Marcus Hook, long
famed as a flshlpg village, are that the few remaining fisherman there are haying;
poor luck. ,
NEW CARRANZA AGENT TAKES CONSULATE HERE
Dr. T, G. Pelllcer, a confidential agent of First Chief Carranza, will arrive
In Philadelphia today to take charge of the Mexican consulate at 411, South
Broad street. Theodore L. Freslerez, vthom, he replaces here, will take charge
of the consulate in San Diego, Cal., which la a more Important post because
of the large number of Mexicans there.
'i ' ' '" ' " urn W ii i i-
CONDUCTOR RUN 'OVER BY FORTY-NINE CARS
John R. Kelso, a freight corductor on the Philadelphia and Heading Railway,
today is lying at the point of death at the Jewish Hospital aa the result of aa
accident last night at Bustleton hen his 'train of 49 coal-laden cars passed
over his body, cutting off both, legs and his left arm. Kelsa was riding on the
cowcatcher of the engine when lie fell in the path of the train.
FIR SPAR 165 FEET LONG ON WAY TO THIS CITY
What is believed to be the tallest spar of Douglas fir ever shipped East
is on its way from Onalaska to Philadelphia. The spar Js J65 feet in length.
Jt required four'large flat cars to ship the Wg stick. The spar is being ac
companied across the continent by several others almost as large. Spare for
many of the new-ships being built in the Delaware are being furnished by
sawmills of the Pacific Northwest , '
150 SCHOOL TEACHERS VISITING CAPITAL FOR 3 DAYS
Nearly 150 teachers from the public schools in this city left Broad Street
Station at 8:32 this morning for Washington, where they will spejjd three day
lght9ln&. Tourist agents o the Pennsylvania Ballroad have arrangtd th
itinerary. This la the second annual trip taken by the teachers under th
awieea ot W Teachers Association. Last year the patty west to QMy&WM,
NEWS
C'
T
