ty i iMt "H Vt "A fW ''Vj'j
THE WEATHER FOtBCAST.
Fair to-day and to-morroW; frsh west
IT SHINES FOP ALL
erly winds
Highest temperature ycttyiiflrjmM 4
totalled weather, mall and manepdMPMJM 13.
PRld
: CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 231.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 1916. cojijrlie'il.lim.bi the Hun PrMIng and PublUMno AtociaHon.
in
rW ' Ik.
WILSON'S LAST
DEMAND OFF TO
BERLIN TO-DAY
Cliiiirnuin Stonu will Con
fer With President Be
fore Note Is Cabled.
IS FINAL PLEA FOB
II INANITY'S BIGHTS
Washington Hopes for Ad
mission of Sussex Case
Responsibility.
AM KIM CAN WOrXDKI)
BY AUSTRIAN SHELL
Attack on Russian Ship Im
perator Involves Vienna
Government.
WAsiilNfiTON. April 1 ". President
Wilson's note to Hermany. which Is
virtually an ultimatum on the subma
rine. Issue, Is completed ami ready to
be cabled. The fact that It will not
be sent until nfler the President has
conferred with Senator Stone, chair
man of the Korean Relations Com
mittee of the Senate, to-morrow morn
ing clearly Indicates Its serious tenor.
It serves notice on licrmany that com
jili.m c with the President's Implied
demands arc essential for the nialnte
Bince of friendly relations between the;
two Ctovernments.
No ccrct is made of the fact that
the note Is n decisive step by the
United States which may mean the
severance of diplomatic relations with
Germany inside of two weeks. The
President Is said to be determined to
obtain recognition of .the rights of bu
rn mity on the high sens at whatever
com. He gives Germany one last
chance to rea'ize this. Upon CJer
muny's icply to the note :il depend
the ifsue.
The PresldiMit Intended to consult
Senator Stone, this evening, but had
difficulty in getting in touch with him
on short notice. Consequently the
idinlng of the note was delayed until
lO-mnrro.v mornln
The President
pent the hours to-day putting theiib not be) mid recognition. Consul
imle in linal form. He hus written It ' Letcher lias been stationed at Chihuahua
hni-clf. though It will bear the Hlgna-I lur the past live yean, .mu was i r
ture of Secretary of State Lunslntf. I to,,jlly "ciuulmcd with the bandit when
Mcr.tarv l.insio,- M,.t.,i . 1 the latter wa at tho height of hlB rf.owcr
to- 'he I'rcsidcnt und consulted with
b.m
I'leilae Vlnlnlliiim l lleil.
T ie President's note serves notice
on (ennany In iinmistakHhlp terms,
i . . . '
i hi i5,. . J . U'rm!'' u" al Mlxlco Cl,'' a. . V.? mand brought details of the Parral tight, the State Dep.imi.ent at Washington
hat the Inllcd btute.s demands pro- official report from Hen. Pendi ng " lin Al,rn i;, Inch puts the matter in the "for sending with cu. ve pteclpita
tt 'Ion for lives on the high s.eus. the right at Parral, with Instructions to )(;)it of n (,pl,,erat 1(tt,.,t on the part ' tlon and most laushable disorder Its
Cumulative evidence Is advanced to
snow that Herinajiy has not accorded
t ie- protection. Snecirio Instu nee in.
the ca.-e of the Channel packet
cx. arc cited to sho.v tha, Ger-
.......) s pieugeti to the United States ,
. . . ....
.Mh-r miccc cases of ?ub,na-
rine ittaeks or, merchantmen since the1
l.usi'a'iii disaster form tho data on
'"i ii me President bases his Indict- lure bv War Minister imiegou, si.uen
m " if Hermany for violating inter- I that the trouble started when the Amcr -n'l'mnal
iaw n many of these rises 1 cans sought to enter the city without
'Z
which were the prey of the1..,... ,hat the Catranzlsta Hoops sup-
(iirni'in "uhmiiiin
lies, but the President
on'.!ius that this does not materially the report from Hen. Pershing dhows
e" tin- situation. In munv other' that the troojis were practically n-se-
inu-lcnn dves were placed' In vl,ed ",to ""' ,,,,wn : ,,h,,l. ' ",e inJi!im
.M..,r,l.v The mere chance Sn L re I -" L. '"iS" S i"'
nppe,,,, ' be no Americans .,b.,..r.i ,
Ihe nth. r vessels is the only
...
tirewAiit ,,,,.11.. ..t . t
"a olimarlne ,i,lrf,irn . i..
'' 'en,r,t,al a. ,e President. It
'""Ii s. io,. -alls the attention of the
" . fovernmen, particularly to
H , . The case of the Sussex Is
tn':r, ; The proofs that this
la.nH-.eil he ...
n ,.
'!. the mlnilssiiiu of Die Vler.
n..'in
"""iii'iiie loio.o,,...!,.,. .1,... ..
1,.,,.,,, . , ,.
"' a .eanier near the name spot
" I ie S..II1J,: time, arc uilvanceU In
"'" '-. the Herman i i,.v.rnn,....
M,. . huhso," noi" sunk
I'olii IcttiM Vol "MUtHkra.
Ce'liMnv ' I
ri. ...
;")Mm will admit responsibility In!
I.. (,, - -.pi-uiiniiiiuij-
"IC hii!,,,. cusp. He taken th
man s,, Mri,,e ensn-aj.;,.. at Ma W()(J
tn the latter says he thought the
t'sel In- wua attacking was a mine
t and he 11WB this fact and other
"'l iar instances to show how unre
"I the present' methods of German
"ui'maiines have proved tu be so far
" the protection of Innocent lives Is
concerned,
The President gives Hermany the bene
a of Ihe doubt In Ills consideration of
'IHIbcrale violation of Herman
1'icilBt to 1 1 united Statu, but he takes
po'llloii that facts show repeated
"tsnei uf thee violations. Tlie Itesl.
't n not willing ulnrply to regard them
" mlstiikes."
it is are that Ihe President's conten
llun cliuli directly with Ihe Herman
toiilliiiicd on Third Pag.
.,u ,' ,,s of A,n?rlcan l.ve was merlcan bullets which stopped .the Lo u. u Z'Trj ''S' W "'7'' bel. If. I I h'; Moul H" TH.. X
Ka. n i-m ine- where a passenger ship ' ' " 'though Mr. Bodgers was directed to . n,,cl,ed enotmous propoillons. tnauy , , J, , . , " should bo v.,, ' Hank ul o yo, f o cllla,m , ln , ,hc
f '''' Miantnian bni n Vlega lav- all these facts before Carranza. he ' wearing unifo. n,s. Mnerlcu columns would have bee,, annl- Z ,rv dv .. ,
"rtHn.., w,,, warning regarded ' was tot Instructed to make any repre-, Carranza soldier- h.d proceeded hut ,,,, Hthll, ., ffW ,,, .. n m ar) a, m h ) n l of ,.isl N(, K,,m .., a
1,v in l'reMd.t .ls . !: i,,!,.,!,.., V.J .i. , nations for ledress ol punishment a short dl-tance towaid the camp when The article closes by declarlm: th it the 1 1 i Vi, ,, i ,c ...I I s v on r n , elegr.un to Tiik Si n reporting w holcsalc
"f '".niain ). w;,lcV ". ce, e Tf hose Involved. ' nhots were heard. Major Tompkins flin(ft,.;,7,r 'L'ul. ... accoid tig o voi executl... in India ordered by the Brit-
I'm.-l S,,e, .,,,,1 all ,'. J n it lonn The War Department la.n this a ter- thought they we.e llrecrack, rs fired as n furn,,hl(, h",,0M,(lll, .,,,, ,sh ,s ur Ish Hoytiuinent to quell revolutionary
, ""r ou lining tl gener al evlence "'' received from Hen Pershing , a welcome by a pleased , o nil ace 1 1, f( ,. Mr Mai shall and Mr Wood both de- outbreaks. He .isse ted that mat tlal law
.., ,e nresen ethodH or hrough Hen. Funston Ihe following list was not long before be had his mind Unancleis after numerous cl.n, ,1 to , r uu stums regarding the"""' " 'stabllsled throughout the
AMERICAN PLANS IN MEXICO
A WAIT NEWS ABOUT VILLA;
HIS DEA TH UNCONFIRMED
Seeretar.v Maker lias Ite
eeived No Word of Find
in' Haiulit's Body.
WITHDRAWAL RESTS
OKTHE VERIFICATION
Major Howe's Report Indi
cates Outlaw Is Seek
ing Skelter.
Wasiiimiton. April 17 With plans '
'all laid to draw the American troops
out of Mexico the moment It In known Both lien. Cavazos and Col. Lartanza
positively that Villa Is dead or cap-, ere said to be In charge of the cxpedl
tured, the Administration Is still await-' tlon conveying the body to t'uslhulrl-
lug contltmatlon of the reports from
Carranza sources that the bandit lead
er's body has been discovered and Is
being taken to Chihuahua.
'The Administration from President
Wilson down Is waiting to be shown.
The absence of any mention of even a
rumor of Villa's death In reports from
Pershing's forces to-day and the
fiilun- of Consul I.cteher at Chihuahua
t i send tiny reports on the subject to the
State Department lessened the hopes of
officials here that the news of Vllla'8
death was correct.
At ll:."f. to-nlghl Secretary Baker
left the War Department, statins that
nut a single message received during
the day had even suggested the death
of Villa.
Asked whether the bringing of the six
Mexican prisoners to Columbus would
act as a precedent In case of Villa's
captuie the Secretary said:
"I cannot answer that."
Asked whether orders had been given
to bring all prisoners to the bordet, In
cluding Villa, he said:
"1 will not answer that."
There wati great Interest In official
circles In a leport lecelved late this
afternoon from Major Hubert 1.. lluwze
of the Kleventh Cavalry expressing the
belief that Villa Is ill the vicinity of the
mountains southwet of llorja. Borja
is in the; neighborhood where the
bandit's body Is said to have been dis
covered, buried in an unmarked grave.
Major llowze'H report, however, In
dicated he believed the bandit ai alive
and seekln-. shelter in the mountains.
Appuicntly lie had no knowledge of the
report fiom Cutiauza source lnrei;ard
to the death of Villa.
Conll r mnt Inn r.
The .Mexican Kmbassj. which gave out '
tNtcrda) several tepotts from Consul
iiarcia at HI Paso professing to give the (
facts, about tlie dli-covery of Villa's body,
heard nothing further to-day fiom him
or any other soutcu in Mexico to hubqtan
tlate the early uvorts.
Ulllclalt of the St.ite Depatlment de
clared to-night that It Villa Is actually
dead and his body Is belts.- taken to
..i.i, u.... i. ...in i... u.i ..uuv tniilter for
consul Utcher to identify It. If tlie body
l flocernor of Chihuahua
ThA W.ula I I. I 111 r I 111,' 11 1 Ilim SClll .Ml. I
U-tcher no Instructions ana win noi uo pu
unless he rrdioris ine arrival iiie . ...
body represented to be that of Villa. !
Th. situt,. Deiiartnieiit this afternoon
sent to Special Agent James" Linn ivook-
submit it to Carranza, eati ng aueuiion
suDtmi io cHiitin,., ... . '
to the wide discrepancy between t and ,
the report of the Mayor of Parral upon
whlcn Carr.mza made his further rep-
-.illations to the l.'nited States for a
L.i.h,irvi-i of the American tiesjps from
10 thc wide dlscrepanc) n. iween u i
thc report of the .Mayor jii i arra i m
wo the' American Hoops from
,
Mexico. I
- ' '
Wheie.is the Mexican leport, followed
no in- oilier reports sent to the embassy
tbe trouble with difficulty.
"" .h""? ... ,V it was
i in -urrai i:,ii .run .... ...... -
al but the
of American casualties
KII.I.KIl.
... ,.,. ........kut 1 n.l'ultl.
X r M.
S Thlrtcinll. Oivtlrt..
,V()1JMIKII.
WIIU.lr.lf,
MA.IUlt FIIASK TOMPKINS. Tlllrtf filth
ivvnlrv. woiiniK-d siisiiiiy in ii'ii piii.
inilr JAMES It. O P, mxm ininirr,
hi.i ly Ii car. . .,
I'U l" l.M. HF.NJAMLV McllKin:!.. Troop
. x Thirteenth Chv airy, soverely In nioulh.
rSnr'
. COHI'O ni. IHCIIAIID TANNAUS. Troop
K Thirteenth Cavalry, severely la right
I .iKnu. ami forearm.
-r. i ....if nr
'i xi KrilUNHBItllKn, Private. Troop u,
aii hls wounds were from rllle shots,
.'. . ii.... .llirlillL- in IpII iiiu.
There Is one missing. His name was
withheld from publication by S.ciotai,
Baker who declared that so long as
thero might be a prospect of finding him
he did not wish to cause his relatives
concern.
Reports From the Front.
In addition to ciisualtles In the Par
iu light, reported by Hen. Pershing,
Major Howie, in his report telling of
separate engagements which ho had with
Vllllstus, gave the name of another
American trooper killed and two
wounded. His report was as follows :
Having passed through llelloza Val
ley, turned towurd Parral and hud sev
eral brushes with Vllllblas. Our
.casualties; Klrby, Trooji M, killed;
C'OMtlMUfd on' Stcond Pag.
- 1 . ... 1.1-.. .., 11... . 1,1,1 II.M W I It'll ..IIIJ.'l . .,11, 1" ... . f ..l.iti.r .1... .pn,,l.. .t,nl I i... , ...
VILLA, "DEAD OR ALIVE," IS
INDICTED FOR THE RAID
Gen. Gaviia Will Give Americans a Chance to Identify
the Body if the Bandit Is Killed Lopez, Dead,
Is Villa Substitute, Is Report.
Hi. P.vsn. Api il IT I'p to. to-night
Villa's body had not nrrled nt Cusl
InilrlHclilc This Informiillon came to
ticti. Gabriel Havlra in Juarez after
a telegraphic conversation with the op
erator at Cu'slhulilachle. Nor had lien,
iSavlta been aide to wet any Informa
tion concerning the alleged discovery
"f Villas body other than was an-
nouiiced xcsterdj.
achlc and as the Journey l long and
rougli from Fiaiirlsco de ItorJ.i (Jen.
liavlra said It would probably be some
bourn before anything authentic camo
from (ien. Cavazos. Iloth Ucu. Oavlra
and Consul (Jatcla continued to express
liellef In the lecovery of the body.
Villa will be hurled In the itottcr'e)
Held In Juarez If he Is dead and his
body Is brought to Juarez. Hen. Oavlra
announced to-day that as soon as he
learns that the body has reached Cusl
hulrlachle he will request that It be
sent to Juarez for Identification by
Americans
News was teiclvetl here to-night b
former stipporteis of Villa to the effect
that Con. Pedro Hracamenle. a former
Villa licneral, is now leading 2,000 men
on the border of Durango anil Zaratecas,
awaiting u ihance to unite with his
former chief The report Is Hint Uracil
inerte has recently taken Sotnbrcrete
and Nonhieile Dlos, III IMiiango, south
of Torreon.
A number of newspaper correspondents
and moving picture men got a special
train anil went down to-day from Juaiez
to Chihuahua to sec the body Mild to
be Villa's. A message sent to Consul
Marlon Letcher at Chihuahua asking If
Villa's body had been found brought
back till" answer.
"Nothing heard of matter here."
'Hie Hrand Jury of l.una count. New
Mexico. Indicted Villa to-day on a charge
of murder for his raid on Columbus
March l. Six of his followris, captured
In Mexico by the American expedition
ary columns after the raid, are now In
Jail In PemliiK and will be tried on sim
ilar charges at the present term of
court.
Iteports to-day from Hen. Pershing
of further lighting with IummIIim 'In the
vicinity of Parral and a telegiam from
AUTHENTIC STORY
OF PARRAL FIGHT
Sun" ('(irrespundeiil Tells
How AmerieaiiN Were 'l'i'ai
ped by Mexicans.
R, (il'.OIIHK II. CI.I'.MK.NTV
1. If I 1. I II' 1I...H I HTl'1., VI'll! ".l.tl
Q,,,IMi Alir ,- (sUt HlerH, to Colum-
bus, N. M. April 171.- -(ien. 1 ersnmg '
iirrWcii xM, n.ornliig after an all night
mi Sativo for a conference with
mPlnM.,s ,,f ,aff. j,en ,is com-1
of Carranzlsta ol
' - '
the Atiier can r
yh!rlJ'X
J r r; is
the atrlval of .
(,irn,nzlsta otllc. rs at Parral to entrap
th(i Anerlc.ln ,roo,,M ,er command of
, Tompkins nnd to annlhllat. them.
to ii, c nect in. u uiioii
the arrival of Major Tompk ns few
n, as n i u iin hi f iir iiiuii nt iir iiit'i
' "' . "' , ." ' , ,,,,, n.rrera.
ffi. VV
ror ,,0 ,,,, trance of the Americans Into
ti,e cltv and for ti cainti gtouud.
It was stipulated that Major Tompkins
was to be at the railway station at 11
o'clock on the following morning, whete
he was to had an escort of Cairanzlsta
soldleis.
Major Tompkins was on tlnu, but
found no escort. So he proceeded to en- ,
za.igo. Jefe de las Amies of Harrison.
the men remained In tlie sneei. uis -
mounted
A cinwd began to gather and
when Major Tompkins, accompanied
, ' '.ne 1','
' i i ... on Mex i ns -.riiied with
' ' ' ;o, ,e men 1 d I een
vo mded M J or T nip ins , rned to
I J la Ie seeme to be
mvhlltled. but Upon Investigation a p.
, nisaiiuseo. i t.i. i . . . ... i..- i. ..4i... comiir.v ami siic-itii u niunais in ine var
pealed to Tompkins to get his men out al ! t.-l" tents, llieie was a consldei
of town and he attempted to guide hlm'-'ble dealing at these lutes,
to a place of safety. ,
,ori'hisT,,wr,d!;n;.woBut..,S WOMAN RUNS FOR CONGRESS.
ion of guards and skirmishers and re-.
treated till he found a cbanco for an 1 lr. liner. Plillnilf Ipliln SoelnlUt.
easy, defence and then made his stand. I ,., ( ,, pn.r,,
In the meatitimii the mob grew larger, '
made, up of uniformed (soldiers, and the Pun. ut:i. piiia, Ap.il IT Tlie first
pistol lire became more Insistent. woman In this State to file nomination
Major Tompkins held his men lu re- papers as Itepiesentatlve al Large to
stralnt until he noticed on un adjacent Congress Is a doctor and a Socialist- In,
hill a body of men over whom the Mexican
Mag was Hying. II" asked Lozango who
the men were, and lozangn replied that
the I'orloii garrison was watching the
movements of the Americans with tho
Intent to guard them.
i. .......nll.l ..,...a II. ..i
juki invii un- m-niir ,i.i,i i.ir.i
volley
iliey'iiiio luiniotiiis n inn., n.ntioi i i
killing one, The American commander
then made up his nUnd that If he must
bo slaughtered he might better be light
ing and he cut loose,
The Mexicans were soon driven off,
leaving fully forty dead on the field.
Major Tompkins dug himself In and
waited for reenforcetncrits, which soon
txwin In arrive with a squadron under
Col. Brown. Major Howze with an
other squadron and Col. Allen with two
troops also came up, the latter making
a phenomenal march to reach the scene.
' V
taiy Attache to the Herman Bmbassy,
Douglas, An. . sailing I i.i- . u.iallo i, Xa dltnlsrtl from this country
Home. commanding the ';" became of "improper activities In mill
forces III Soiiora, had left to take Ills' . . ., . . . i..
command through Pulpltn Pass Into the '
State of Cblhuahu.1 cauieit more ills
cusslon along the border than the re
porteil dlscoxery of Villa's Ixidy
IS IHMIV.
I'or some days troops along the border
have been held III rcadlnesi to leenfnlce
the line of communication behind i,cii.
Pershing In the eicir of the C,irr,inx.i
troops moving Into Chihuahua fiom So
iiora. anil the news that the movement
was about to be stirted did not cause ,
any relaxation In tbc prep iredness plans M,,pij,., Von dor Holtz electric gen
r,rih,,,BoferM -, -ires for u-e
unall skirmishes by his tumps sou'h if In detonating M pounds of ilynamite
Satevo and in the vicinity of Patr.il 1 w hlch Capt Hans Tatisch-, Krupp
connrmeil utorlcs brought heie by Anieil- il!ent , ,mctlca and husband of Mine,
caiw of the existence of many groups of i,,.i
bandits In that region. Mis- Nellie Pre,-, Hadskl. Is charged with having pur
cott mid Mlrs May Dminlng. two mis- chased. Capt. Tatischer was also In
slon M.'hiol teachers, who tied fiom Par-, dieted ycterday. a' were two minor
rai alter me ngnt mere iai ween ne- i
tween Ameilcau troois and Mevic.in
sobllers atiil civilians, declined to-night
that all the native farmers and ranchers
for ntllri. around Parral were com ng
Into the town for piotcctlon at the Mile
they left a-id that all of them reported
bandit gioup" numeiou
Hen. IVishlng has ,iked for more
civilian scouts, especially those familiar
with the 1. strict south of Parral. This
was taken by the mditar men as an
Ind. cation that the advanced cavaliy de
taiiiminti. aie pushing forward p(-lbl5
Into Durango
The bonier m now womleiiiig il the
builv found at San Francisco I tor J i. In
the
event one reallv wa found th'eie,
mlBlit not be that of Pablo Lopez, who
was tep.iitcd tlrst wounded at Columbu,
then dead and again lleeini; southward
In a wounded condition before Persuing'
advance column
Distill bailees at t.as P.itnm.is e.tilit
miles south of Columbus on the border,
followed pay da.v for the Carrana i-nl-diets
pitrnli.ns the l iternational line,
according to rports to-day. The stuty
men were pild Sundav for the Hist time
In two months, each man recilvlng five
American dollar" and iwenty-lx pe.sot
In Carranza currencj
In a twelve hour priiod endmc to
night thtee American motor trains of
lweiit -seven trucks each started for the
front from Columbus carrying rations,
clothing and other supplies, a tecord
nnmher to dejinrt from the expeditionary
bise.
CARRANZA ORGAN
IN BITTER ATTACK
Sii Villa Kxpedition sIhiwn
lueptitiide tf I'. S. War
Oepartiiient.
si-uii i tihtr Itfnimtrh tn Tnr st
Mexico Citv, April IT. The news-
paper ,lcron .lninf.if, which 1.-
the otfl-
, , f . ,,,
' M" .overmnent,
' ' "" ""nl i''k
"ay an e.ntorlal In which It criticises
famous punitive expedition against Villa
and the realization which tinall) dawned
' on the merican ti.ivei nment that the
.....i,,.-. i. .-iiii.iu'in um.s cieaieii nan
.. ran.,,..
- n.t
The edltoi la ds
I'ortunatelv the pcnnle and th,. cm,
eminent of Mexico have I i able to
see the matter cleat l and have Imd the
i dignity mid patience to await
ms-
factor) h Intion We can do no h sa iiiln
congratulate ourselves, hoping likewise
Hint thc Hoveriiinenl of thc I'nlted
States will be belli r advised on another
ou aslou And we sav bettei advised I'll" ng Ibeni a lener which nr .xinc ri wu, mnuey and ...uini troops anu Hie co
not only in a dipl miatlc but In a military h id written fiom San l i incl-co on operatlvn of other'ptlnces.
sense b-,rp't4 of 'b'' altachen tecall. In tait "Vews also has been received lieu of
'This famo'is expedition has made
.t... .
, . . , "'" , Vi ...
..... . .. ;
'I i i.. ..i .... ... ..
l lie hands of outlaws weie dlvideil up all
'. (lol(.
"" I""er " Hr" ''I"K at
""'h l,ll"'f! "t"' '" "'" days.
' afbr which they will enter Into some
at iai,ge.ne,H with the authorities as to
; '," national ciiuenc). As . resull paper
"i"""1 I'm. i - v teiiiu, closing
I I'.hzaoetli M, Haer m uu houtli Klgl,
tcentb street.
ir. ii.ier was . oiuinaie. py nuia.lel- , JuI ImIIcIIoi, or the I'nlted States be.
.phla hoclalls s at a meeting here re- ' SJ ,. M,tH n foot, provides or pre-
cent y and the Slate necretarv of tbe1".' ... n,., ,.,..,, f.n- iidiiii.ev i...
part), Hubert Itlnt'ler, filed the piinera
t ... .i ti ..ii..... ...1.1..1. ... ..... .,
a.tii - .i,,) n, 1 1 ,. 1 1 in.. 10 K , ..nun ,,i inn iiircii
nines irinii . mini inn, inn oirilipiacf. or
nr. Maer. Mie wan griiiiualed In 1 uon
from Hahnemann Medical College, Chi-
cago, aim nan pracnncn m i-uiiatieipnia '
ever since, i
l-'lral llmlanii Itlver Shml Ciiuubl. ,
n, ,, v .. .,,. ,. I
s, t iii.Un.' . iii,-' J, ' . e ,,''l,lei
...I., e", .-h i ,V . ,
noted fisherman. John L uge, who was pounds, mnio or 'less, of 0 per cent,
seining fur bass on thc Pltxmont llatn. I dyiuimlto ; six automatic pistols, fur
opposite here. I snl.,, uy the dfendant liana Tauscher
. 1 ,11 V I 1 I i '
VON PAPEN INDICTED
AS A BOMB PLOTTER
1 Nioiicil as Olio of Five in Kxpe
1M ion Against tin; Wel
tand Canal.
TACSCIIKK ACCTSKh ALSO
Three Prisoners fo IMciiil To
day Woman Said to lie
Fifth Offender.
('apt Franz Mm Papen, former Mill-
,r aiiairs.
'," was Indicted yeeterday
afternoon In a Federal (Jrand Jury on
a charge of having engaged In a mill'
, ., ,.....
li" - v '"'erprise to oes.ro w,e -
t'.inal, a Canadian waterway
('apt von Pa pen is accused In the
Indictment as haling fund-died funds
for the expedition to Mors! 'Mill der
iloltz. a Herman spi, and also having
tlgutee.
I only four names nut of the ftve men
! tloiuil in the indictment, which was
' ketu sealed, wete made public The
llfth name was withheld until noon to- --
da' It H expected that till" defendant to
will be btoiigbt Into court to-uay 10 ru,,8 and wires furnished by the ilc
plead to the IihIk tmeiit and furnish ball, fendant Franz von Papen to Wachen
The authorities Intimated that this de- dorf, and money for the expenses of
ftndant was a peison or prominence,
lliillcllllelit Wlllinill I'recrilenl.
The indictment of Von Papen Is with
out precedent It was ordered In the
Department of Justice I'tdted Stateb
Attorn V Mil-lull f.nd, aftei a sum-
in iry o) the evidence against Capt. von
Papen. ''apt Tau-. hr and the three
otln r d. fcnd ints wa laid before the
Altoi m -Heiieral. Ilecause of the lack
of precedent for the indictment the act
of the Fideral Hrand Jury, of which
Itovil Dicker is chairman, was regarded
as indl. atmg In an i mphatle manner
the attitude of the Administration to
waid the philters against neutrality.
Ac, mdliig to International law an Am
bassador, ins staff ami Ids servant are
entitled to immunity fiom prosecution 1 der Ho'.tz. Taylor or Wachendorf went to
for anv ctlines. 'These ptivlleges and Italtlmore on August 'ii, 191 , "and thero
Imiiiunltle-," accirding to the C) clopiedla arranged for a certain number of sub
of Law and Procedure, "do not expire Jects of the Iimperor of Germany; to
with the cessation of his filiation, hut
In retains them until lie returns to his I
principal."
Tlie Inti wirctatloii that linger II Wood,
Wist int I'nlted Mate" Attorney in
i .iaige r 'he . ninin.il division, put upon
the tntei nation il law Is that while Capt.
v ii Papen was Immune from a i rest or
piosei utMIl until h leturll'd to Her
niaiiv Hint 1 1 1 i n il 1 1 '. I no lunger holds and
he would be subject to artest should he
ictu-'i I till" csJliti)
Mr Wood had chaise of the ftamliw
.if the evnltiic. against tlie Hamburg
Am. i lean otllcials and prosecuted the
, an A' that trial he adduced evidence
revisililig the activities of Capt Karl
llo.v-Hd. naval atta, he to the Herman
l.llll'.C.sS.V. Ill Conii.'ii urn ..oil in.- iii.'.t-
sionlin; of Herman ciuixets in the At
lantic and Pacific oceans He showed
ti.at I "aiit liov-l-M received and disbursed
large amounts ol moiiev in accordance
with instructloiw sent b) code from iter- 1
mail) I
.Mi- Wood has ileveloptil th" evidence.
against Cavt "ti Papen. Capt. Taosch'T,
the two minor defendants and the im-
named p I -on. It (s legaided as possible ,
that Capt von Papen migni nil nave
Ih-vii Indicted -the 1 ederul authorities
do not expect to ti him, for they do not
, think Heimanv would ictuin him for that
l.urp'se- bad init tin proof iigauiet the
other defendants been Intel woven so In
extilcabl) aiound the foinur military
attache.
Letter from Dr. lllierl.
II, wan learned esterila that one of
I he 'pel sons whom Capt. von Papen
1 vb.lt.-il in lor to his departure fioin this I
rnimtiv was Dr. Ilelnrlch F Albert,
nrlv v counsellor to the Herman Hmbassy
nnd chief fiscal agent of the Herman
I'mpl"' " countiy
lie speiu si v-
, i,il bonis with Dr Albert at the Hotel
Astor When Capt von Papen's papers
wen taken from linn at Falmoiini ty tlie
lh gl s1- on hl return Jouipe) there w is
1. it. i he said
"When I think of your and Bo.-IM's
in 1 1 ill t alio Hint l nione leniain ie-
hind II. New York.
could well, better
,,
Barker m the letter Dr Albeit wrote:
You will lecelve when in Hermany Ihe
nemt. There was a hint that a woman
was Involved, but it was d-m-d Only
'par.., of the iudlclm. tit. which contain..
five counts, were made public ami the
. pint bearing on the tilth deferdaut was ,
riniv
withheld
The Indictment is concerned with the
...... ....... .I.(., ii .l.ikl III.. Wi.ll'tnil
i....,..i ,. Heiitemhcr. PHI. one year to
the month prior to ine cxp. union vv men
Paul Koe.iig, alleged head of the Her
man spy sstem in America, Is nc iim-d
nf having u.iilei taken. The details vw re t
puhlislied al the thun of the niros; of,
Cap! Tauscher, then nanied as he ill
lector of Ihe enterprise, though lot'
actiiall) participating in It
The indictment is leiurnen miner sec
lion III of th" united riates i-riimna.
Statute", which provides, a penalty nf
$3(in0 fine, three ears In prison or
i both. The law sas that whoever within
!.'..i... ,.,,iiwi nation frlendlc i th
piiri . . .... . . . '
pned States snail im puiilslied. Tho
tlrst COUUl Ol 111' ItlUICtlUeut Cllarges
t,,. defendanls will, all four activities
and then devotes a count to each actlv-
Hv named 111 tun statute.
',,,,,. count of the Indictiiient M,ys "the
.., ,,,-ovlded by the defendants being'
ceitaln dnatnlte procuted by the, de-
fendant Ha.ih Tan-cher to be fur-
Pished to Fianz llobart Wachcndnrf
tanutlier ana- lor iiiiilgman Taylor.
lllllIK HOtSl Von HIT liOltZ) : to Wit, 200
iVE w HA VEN TRAINS
FIRE IMPRISONS PASSENGERS;
6 REPORTED DEAD, 50 HURT
BOSTON J
FOREST HIUS I
MASSACHUSE 1 Jr
JWAlPOlt JC.
CON NEC- RHODE f
TICUT I ISLAND, f
jPROVIOENCkVA !
yjAP bhowinjr the coast line route of the New Haven system and loca
tion of Hradford, II. I., where the fast express from Boston ran
into an accommodation train.
Wnchendorf, electric
Beneratoin.
ui military enterprise, furnished ty
the defendant Franz von Papen.
Ilrcoril of I hri'U ln mrnl.
It is charged that on September 1,
1911. Capt. von Papen paid to Von der
Holtz !:'nn, listing the amount In the
stub of h:s check book a paid to Hrldg-
man Taylor, n September Hi. 1914
he sent $310 by means of a draft to a
bank In Buffalo, to be paid to John T.
Ityan, lawyer and politician of that city,
who, without knowing the purp'e for
which the money was to be use;i, handed
It to Von der Holtz. On September 22
Capt. von Papen drew another check
for $2o0 which he sent through the same
channels.
Tho indictment also charges that Von
wit, live, more or less, to thereafter re-
port to Mm in the southern district of
New lorl; to take part and aid and as
sist In carrying out the said military en
terprise '
Thee r.v
NEW INDIAN REVOLT, ,
RAM CHANDRA HEARS ,
,jo. of "I Illlllst II II (iailai'
Sa v-s Itnjiili of Kharwa Was
Imprisoned.
.
The St s leceived yesterday tha ri
0wlm; message from 11.1111 Clialidra, ed,
;,, (,-(r of San Fran
t-.sti.
To tiik Bpitoi: ol Tilt: Si s iir- I
Iiave Ju-t received reports of a fresh
revolutionary outbreak In India. Nu-
morous soldiers, students and others are
undergoing trial before a special tribunal
lu camera at Benares. Fifteen of the
I'
iccused persons have been sentenced to
exl' for life and ten others to ten yea is Hurlan, the Austrian Premier to Chan
imprisonment. Other cases are pending. ' cello r von Bethniann-llollweg -,s sup-
"Tm- most sensational of the cusch Is
that of the Bajah of nopalslugh. ruler
ot Kharwa, one ot ine setr-governing
lujpui.iii.i ,-iaies. i nt- iniiir .,..n run -
teiiced tu two
his estates wei
i "The irosec
I tu two )cars imprisonmem anu
..on. ...i, ......
Cllll.lll lll.llh.! tll.ll ine
prnce promised to aid tlie revolutionists
further executions of revolutionists at
Burma and l.ahoie."
Bam Ch.ind-a, "lltoi of the i hiI.ixiI
Indian newspaper published In San Fran
Cisco, is tlie Head of a tadical party in
India whose watchword Is India foi the
mm cities.
Two hundred levolutloulsts
were hanged and shot. ,"00 transported
i ruin lt.t.,rA.i .. ii,... . i
for life and 1,001) Interned without trial.
he declared
BOMBS HIT WAR MINISTRY.
' British Arroplniirs Make llemnrU -
nhlr lilt In roilslniltliiople Itnltl.
Sprcinl Cable Desimlcl. to Tuc Srs
Salonici, via Lontlnn, April 1". The
British aviators who last week raided
Constantinople and Adrlanople caused
serious damage to the military establish-
ments at the latter city.
Two bombs burst In the War Ministry
at Constantinople, wnue anotner mew
up the iMiwtlei factory at Mnkrlkou
I There w ere numerous victims
-PT VCTED MAYOR SHE REFUSES '
t'11 wflIutt' aUl KU&isO. ,
I
Poslllon Ton High, Maya Cnllfor-
nln'a First Wnmnn Kieemlve.
Uis Aniiri.ks, April 1" Mrs, UHcn
l'rcncli Aldrlcii, tin llrst woman In Oat-
"""" " " " J, ' V "J
the ove or taking orrico to-day at , saw-
t" "W" ' announced that she would
not accept the post,
"I want a lowly posit on. Mrs Aldrich
I want to mingle with the people
" "' ,""lr
, men in im me iiij in cinit oe siioinu
tie manageu, i no imimiiioii oi .Mayor is
too high nnd too dignified to alluw any
one to thus mingle."
sailors on the flavarla, a Herman ship
wariMil to a pier at Italtlmore. The
Indictment further charges that Capt.
Tnnsoher gave Von tier Holtz a letter,
a copy of which Is reproduced, by means
of which the dynamite was obtained from
a ship down the bay.
In accordance with the plans of the
conspiracy. It Is until, Von der Holtz,
Alfred A. Fritzcn. Constantino Oovanl,
Carl Tunhendler and Joachim Busse. left
New York for Buffalo on September 14,
lftlt Fritzcn ami Hovanl. who was a
close associate of Von der Holtz, are
named as defendant!. In the indictment,
making with Tatischer, Von Papen and
the unnamed pcrsvin five In all.
The Hrand Jury has had tho eTldence
under consideration for two weeks. It Is
expected that the defendants who have
been arrested will be arraigned to-day.
Frltzen and Hovanl are at large. Ho.
van I Is believed to have left tho coun
try, hut the authorities arc close on the
trail of Frltzen.
It has been charged that Capt. von
Papen supplied the funds for Werner
van Horn, who attempted to blow up
the International bridge In Maine: that
he rlnanced operations from tlie Pacific
coast against railroads and railroad
nrniaes in Canada and tint he was bl
are aid to have been 1 hind other violations of neutrulltv.
PEACE MOVES AFOOT,
IS HOLLAND REPORT
Austria Said to Re Kllli'er for
Settlement Kates of K
eluuiffe Rise.
sjifieif '.iJi nt'pntrl m Tim Sis
1oni'0N April IT Tlie Dnily .VcuVs
Botterdamcorrespondenttelegraphsth.it
extraordinary weekend rumors have .m-
, portautly affected rates, of exchange here
and at Amsterdam to-da).
The rumnrn ate all connected with
peace. Some Insist that the Internal po-
tlon of Austria will compel an im-
portant move toward peace, the cor-
respondent savs. The visit of Baron
posed to have a connection with tlila
'";'; ,,rr(.,onrtpnt ..dd, iat lt .
,,.Ule to trace tlie rumois to their
. source, but the) have ti noiicst lonabl v
haiI marked effect on the rates, which
nave risen as to, tows .
London, pnurnls sterling. 11 1? on Fri-
day ll.:s on Sntur.day and IL.In on with the tvvii difficult For hours
' M'j'lay Wli,,. 100 marks 42.2. on , ,lfu., ,, collision no details of i, were
I i dav, I2.t... in Saturday and 13.2." to.,,.,, , ,, . , . , ,, ,
da) P.itis. mo francs. 3-i.Tn ot, Filday. ' ' and reports reached Provl-
3'J on Saturday and 40 to-d.nv. detiie. forty miles away, New London,
Ii must, howevei, be admitted, the twenty-three miles, and Westerly, five,
i cm est nun, en t snvs. Mint hi nmiiv ie. llllles distant, that Perlialis :i score of
I M.i.tt, tm.M. ninvements ate due merely
to llnanclal Jobbing arranged by Increas-
Inlr the value of tbe mall.. I
It Is stated that all the bacon In the
possession of Prussian farmers ,s to be
confiscated for the arm)
SAY POPE WILL ACT,
Home Iteporla litillente He Will
tltivr fur Pence.
LnsiMiN, April 17 -- renewal of the
Pope's efforts to appeal to the belllger-
cuts to conclude peace Is looked for In
the Immediate future, according to a
' .tu,.,irtl. I,, il... it, .11.. -rl.MM..l.
, Home despatch to the fbifli Tctt graph.
The reiiorted forthcoming pupal de.
marehe III favor of peace Is said to be
unlimited bv representations on the part
' of the Klnns of Bavaria and Saxony
The Pope received to-day a number
1 of Cardinals
ippoliited to diploma tic
posts, and is reported to have -minded
them on the advisability of approaching
tlie belligerents once more with an ef-
f"tt to bring about nn end of hostilities
The papal activities this time are ex-
peeled to he carried on thrnus.li dlplo.
malic channels
SUSSEX'S ASSAILANT CAUGHT?
French unln lleporled to Have
I npluret. I l.intl,
im el C.thle letlit''h 'a Tin Si v
1-iN.siN, Apt II IT The Hal' ii Mml as-
verts lo.dav I lint tlie wiibiiiurine u lo .-.i .
tacked tin I'liaune, stciiisinp iss.x
has been capt. lied b the Fiencli, her
,n,,r' I ninv'luvui I, '..,, l.,
lrhi. locii-neniiiM
ev idencc Is said
to hav been obtained prov lug t liat ilil-l-
(unioe,! th Sussex. The craft
.1(l .aptuivd off llavn, ou Apill .".. ,,.
.inserts
official adv lets fiom IV. I asl week
OkseTlod thai the L Isiai wh.. 'i
chaiged with having attacked the Sui-sex
had been capluied b) thc French The
f regnlug despiil h prtbalily icfeis
the same submarine.
CRASH;
Gilt Edge Express Dashes
Into a Local at Brad
ford, IL I.
HAD ORDERS TO STOP,
SAVS THE COMPANY
Knjrinc Ploughs Through
Rear Car of Train Tak
ing Sidinjr.
IILOCK SIGNALS SET:
FOG OVER THE TRACKS
Many Persons Said to Hp
Caught in the P.urn
ing Cars.
BiiiniORP. H. I., April 17. The Ollt
Kdgc. Kxpress, n fust all eteel through
passenger train from Boston on tho
New York, New Haven and Hartford
Railroad, tore, a Hhullerlng path
through the rear earn of a local train,
no from Boston, that whm tnklng a
siding at the Bradford Mntlon to-ilght
lo give the express right of way. A
fog prevailed nt the time.
In tho grinding crash and a (Ire that
quickly enveloped the two rear itirs of
the local and spread tn the freight and
parst'ligtr stations im'.u Iiv at icilbt
six person, were killed and nearly
fifty Injured.
Vice-President WhuVy of tho New
1 In ven said at middlghl that of tho
Nix known dead the bodies, of three had
been so burned ns to be unrecognizable.
The known ibnd nte:
Miss Jeanette Clark, Westerly, It, I.
Mrs. Oscar Martell, Snitthbtidge,
Mass,
Thomas Wnrdmin Is repotted tnls.s
ing. The victim vvetc Imprisoned n a
tumbled mass of twisted -teel and
splintered tal.UMil stin k, nil iilluriic, so
that rescue wort; fw u time was Ini
INisslblo. All tlie dead with the excep
tion of tin- engineer of the cxpresH
Itinin and most of the Injured were
pass-engett, on the local and the lsidlea
which weir lecovcred from the vvreck-
iiigi- to-nlgiu wire generally charred
almost ln oii'l Identification
1 Many of the injured -infered severe
burns before they could get out of the,
wreckage.
The local train had hud steam
trouble In the locomotive all the way
liotn Huston ami when It camo to ;i
stop nt the Bradford elation a Hag
man was sent back for half a mile to
"aril the express which loll Boston
thirty-one minutes behind the local.
II lock SK,, ,.,
The tlagtiiun may have lioon passed
untuitlccd In the fog which hung ovei
the track-, ma t Wllh ofricially
lo-nlght .tliat the hlm'k signal was set.
against the exptcss and that besides
Its engineer had explicit orders to stop
t nr.,dfonl. This part of the mad is
T".""e" wlt1' ,"" m,'mmI "
1 M'"' "-J ""''
"'i an nun mo wrccKagn
immediately utter thc crash destroyed
inn telegraph wires leading out of
Bradford and made communion!...!.
, persons were caught In the hiirulnn
rear cars of the local und that because,
ot the lnlcn-e he.ii It was Itnposslbln
to get cioso to the pile of burning
wteckage, which was enveloped pot
only In smoke and llanics hut dense
clouds of escaping steam from the ex
press locomotive
A reiKirt reached Westerl). soon after
tbe two trains struck at T ;1I2 o. lock,
that when the llaiins spread tu tho
fteighl station a large quantity of
gasolene, stored in tl,. building exploded
and added to the difficulty of resun
Bradford citizens went to tho nssis-tanco
0r in lured witii
,-..o
all the aid ill then'
command and houses i,ea- t ie tracks:
Iwv.inie Improvised hospuai, ,m ,j relief
trains from Weste.-i) and New lnidou
arrived with moie than a ssi-n of
ph) sl.lans and railio.nl men
The local tram, known otliciall) as
No. tl3:i, and hound for New London,
left Boston at .0,1 o'clock In chaige of
I'onduttoi' II. N I'tencb and BiiKineer
D M Welherhee. The cxptess, No, 2i,
followed thirty-one inmules later.
Dittlcult) with the sti un in the locals
locomotive was evpt rleiiocil throughout
the ttlp to Bradford The trouble be.
came serious a' Kingston, a few miles
east of Bradford, but the trainmen kept,
on to the latter Matlm,, where they wete
.Kit l.l t,e , e.d.lig t I, t tlie ev.,ess
pass. The local was proceeding 'o thu
siding when the express struck
lliul Order to Mop,
Hcntl.il Manage,- C I, Hanlo of tho
New Haven mad said t-m Klit that Kti-
iln,.i.i VI. il, .tl.. 1,1 ,,f tl, I lilt l-.l.r.. 1.-. .
mess had old. is t.i stoo nt Br.idforil
1,111 appaii'iitl) II xpiess was stilt
niiil.llig spetd w.ln n tlie neav) locomn.
0c hole down hi lu foul car local
'lam
After the wick the naln crews told
.-mulcting s,n.s - t.. responslbllltv
lor the ci.,-n lt was oil. allv stated,
linwcur. that the local had i- n a flag-
ua.i l hunl lo wan. the expruss that It
lu--l thin taking tin: hiding In flout
to of ie Bradford station.
'1 he big locoiuiulvc ?! Uui
i
V
..'...;,'.i..ii.iA.'
