ate
WEATHER
MARKETS
tw YORK CITV
Average price of cop
per for week ending
April 12, 27.25.
Sunday and Monday
generally fair;. not
much change in tem
perature. Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
ty -
VOL. 18, NO. 278.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, APRIL 18, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
TRY IS SKEPTICAL OVER 1
mmm
lEPQRTEL
OF BAfJDIT-FRAHGlSGO VILLA
LETCHER SAYS
IfrlDUlM HC DIIMflQ I I P TV
miunnii Ul NUIflUII 111 ui 1 1 :
QFOHIHUAHUA;WIRESDOVVN!i
i -
Carranzista Officials Certain That Gavira's Report Is True
While Americans On Both Sides of The Border Regard
The Story With Open Suspicion; Typhus Epidemic
Threatens To Decimate Ranks Of Both Armies
:
(By Review Leased Wire.) , .
EL PASO, April 17. General Gavira, Carranza commandert JuBrei.
announced tonight that the Mexican telegraph wires between Juarez and
Chihuahua had been blown down near Pearson about noon and for that
reason he was unable to learn any further details of the reported dis
covery of th,body of Villa. At the same time a telegram, filed at Chi
huahua City, presumably before the interruption to the wire service, was
received by the Associated Press from Consul Letcher saying that nothing
was known in the state capital regarding the finding of the bandit's re
mains. These two circumstances combined to return force to the growing
scepticism here as to the truth of the truth of the story that death has
ended the career of the fugitive brigand. The old story that the man
w ho is really dead is Pablo Ipez. the notorious butcher of Santa Vsabel,
and that Villa has deliberately used his death as the basis of a false re- '
port of his own decease was revived. This story was retold today by
an American owner of a large ranch in the Guerrero district who said
he bad got it from his ranch foreman and thought it to be true.
The confidence of Mexican officials here and in Juarez that Villa Is
dead had not, however, diminished, outwardly at least. It was pointed out
today that if the body had been brought to Cusihuiriachic it might take
the better part of a day to transport it from there to Chihuahua City.
The road bed between these two points is in a deplorable condition. like
that of all other railroads in northern Mexico. There are only three en
gines of the road and all three are in a very battered and rickety condi
tion. An average of four or five miles an hour is normal on Mexican
Northwestern railroads and Cusihuiriachic is sixty miles from Chihuahua.
With hopes of Villa's death dwindling, attention here was directed today
to a far deadlier and more insidious foe with which reports say both
Americans and Mexicans are confronted. Reports received here today by
the American representative of large mining interests in Mexico stated
that typhus fever was raging in northern Mexico and was assuming the
proportions of a great epidemic.
These reports said that the Mexican
peous. ill-nourished and living under TORPEDO BOAT COMMISSIONED
the most terrible unsanitary condl-j PHILADELPHIA, April 17. The
tions, were almost helpless to resist torpedo boat destroyer Porter, one of
the ravages of the disease. There are : tne iargest and fleetest vessels of Us
few doctors in the country and almost! type in the United States navy, was
all of the American physicians who J placed in commission at the Philadel
formerly lived there have fled across j puia navy yard today. She will be
the border. The few Americans who j commanded by Captain Worlman.
have entered Mexico from here in thei The Oklahoma, built by the New
last Tew weeks have taken the pre- J York Shipbuilding Co. and represent
caution to carry a supply of bottled , lng the latest type of superdread
water with them as there is little riaught is practically completed and
water to be found in Northern Ch!- j v.-ill be in commission In a week or so.
huahua which is safe to drink
In the American refugee colony
here the reports of the spread of
disease and of growing economic dis
tress are declared to be more likely
,r
to be inadequate than
exaggerated.
The colony is convinced that affairs j
in Mxico are rapidly approaches ,
crisis when Washington must decide
on either a prompt withdrawal of
trocps or a very enlarged scope of the
operations.
. CONFIRMATION LACKING
WASHINGTON, April 17. Confirm
ation of the death of Villa was still
lacking tonight, both at the State and
War deartments. and at the Mexican
.embassy. The tinly dispatch from
An.erican sources in Mexico tending to
lendr color to the report was a brief
statement from Major Howze, of the
Eleventh cavalry, now near Tarral,
that he had information which led
him to believe that, the bandit and a
small party of his followers had fled
some days ago toward San Berja,
which is close to the place where
'inofficial Mexican reports say that
the body was found. '
The outstanding feature of the days
messages from the border were re
ports to the War Department that six
Mexicans who confessed to having ta
ken part in the raid on Columbus, N.
M.. had been cantured and sent to Co
lumbus for trial by the New Mexican
authorities. Another official report re
lieved anxiety as to the supply prob
lem of the troops at the front. It said
that the forces row are fully suppled,
with the exception of a small ship
ment of horse shoes and clothing, that
will go forward tomorrow. An ample
supnly of g?coline whs on hand, the
report said, for the motor trucks and
aeroplanes.
The body supposed to be that of
Villa was said by the last Mexican
teiKirts to be en route to Chihuahua
City. If was pointed out' at the War
Department, however, that the point
where it was found was nearly two
days journey by wagon from the rail
rortil. That may account for delay in
obtaining confirmation or denial of the
report that the bandit's career has
ended.
If General Funston and General
.Pershing hav taken any steps to
make certain the indentif iration of the
br. lv. they have done so on their own
initiative. No instruction, from that
end have been sent from Washington,
either to consuls or military command
ers. This fact may be significant of the
attitude-of the state department. It
was intimated today that the United
States government might be willing
to accent a formal declaration from
Continued on Tags Six.)
I
NOTHING IS
RAILROAD MAN DIES
OAKLAND, Cal.. April 17. Albert
F. Brewer, superintendent of the Utah
Mnnlnno Hiviuinn nt h Drprnii Short
, . .,, uJ,..M ,
, died 8udden, here tonigllt. He
wg 64 yeaM old Brewer was widelv
known in western railroad circles. For
some years ne was superintendent of
transportation for the Denver and Rio
Grande railroad at Denver.
NORWEGIAN SHIP SUNK
LONDON. April 17. The Norwegian
steamer Repeleru has bbeen sunk.
Her crew was rescued.
(By Review Leased Wire)
DOUGLAS. April 17. Three thou
sand of General Arnulfo Gomez' men.
now concentrated at Colon la Morelos
and to the' south, are in danger of
starvation if they should move, as
their leader has indicated, from Son
ora into Chihuahua, according to an
American arriving here today. Even
by remaining in thei: present camp
ing places they are quite likely to
suffer for want of food as but four
wagons are on the, road from Agua
Prieta to the base at the colony, he
says.
The de facto soldiers he talked to
denied to the American that any of
their number had entered Chihuahua,
but both officers and men said that
such was their intention as soon as
General Gomez rejoined the column.
They made no secret of the meagre
ness of their food supply, some ask
ing him if he had any provisions with
him. It is his opinion that they would
not be able to support themselves if
they moved into Chihuahua, a section
which is stripped of food by Mexican
and American soldiers.
He was told by some of the officers
that no other wagons than the four
now in operation could be procured,
although several efforts have been
made by both General P. Ellas Calles.
military governor of Sonora. and Gen
eral Gomez.
General Gomez stated yesterday
afternoon, prior to leaving Agua Prie
ta, that he expected to get his troops
into position to take the field in Chi
huahua as soon as the American
troops came out.
(Continues' on Fag 4)
GOMEZ' COMMAND ON GHiHUAHUA
S0N0RA BORDER SNORT OF FOOD
i .
i i
WEST COAST QUIET
i
SAN DiKGO, April 17. Con
ditions on the Mexican west
coast are quiet, according to
Commander Thomas J. Semi,
of th Cruiser Chattanooga,
which ' arrived from Guaymas
today.
Only three war vessels re
"niain on duty along the Mexi
can and Central American
coasts. The cruiser Denver is
at Guaymas, cruiser Raleigh at
Corinto and the gunboat York
town at Topolobatr.po.
i
!
BEHIND ATTACK
Little Possibility of Extending
American Lines Beyond Sa
tevo. Funston Ignores Re
ports of Villa's Death
AT PERSHING'S HEAD
QUARTERS, In Mexico, by wire
less to Columbus, N. M., April 17.
Army officers here stated to
day that Majcr Tompkins received
a written threat from General
' Lozano, commander of the Carran
za garrison at Parral, that the
American troops would be attack
. ed if they advanced to the city.
According to the same officers the
fight at Parral was the result of
treachery. Major Tompkins' men
being ambushed by soldiers of the
Parral garrison.
The attack on the ' American
troopers is deeply resented by the
officers who assert that ths hos
tility of the Carranza garrison had
blocked the best trail to Villa's
' hiding place.
SAN ANTONIO, April 1". C.eneral
Funston today expressed the convic
tion that communication with the
American forces in Mexico could not
be extended beyond Sate.vo, with the
present number of troops available.
He also said that operations further
south were impossible unless authori
ty was obtained for the establishment
of a new border base, the free use
of the railways or the material
! strengthening of the forces now in
Mexico. He said that in strengthen
ing the line to Satevo, the maximum
of its elasticity should be attained!
Detached columns of cavalry are
operating south of Satevo but only so
far as rations for man and horse can
be carried. The three detachments
that met at Santa Cruz, eight miles
from Parral, now have lef there and
(Continued on Page Four)
LOCAL PEOPLE WILL
HAVETOBE SHOWN
New York World Inquiry Is
Answered After Report
Of Villa's Death
Skepticism was the prevailing fea
ture of the effect of the news thnt Vil
la was dead and burried upon peo
ple of the Warren district yesterday.
All declared they had to be shown
and that verification of the reported
deatli by Carrancista officials, would
.not be satisfactory to border resi
dents. The New York World in making a
poll of the border cities regarding
iineir ieeung upon me punmve rjfui-
ton. wired to Bisbee, Mavor Adams,
with President While o fthe Business
Men's Protective Association and
President Bowen, of the Commercial
Club, yesterday, answered the query.
In the message they stated that
they were SKainst the withdrawing of
American troops from Mexico until
it was established beyond the shadow
or a doubt that Villa was dead. The
message also declared that the pres
ence of troops on the border would
be it'vsessary for many months to
I come. In passing to other matters the
local people railed attention to the
fact that no rifles had been issued to
the local rifle club, as per the congress
ional statute along those lines.
TREACHERY
W
ON TROOPS
AT PARRAL
LIST WON 01
i
SHINE ii
WM-tiOES-1
TODAY, j!
President Completes Draft Of
Communication To Germa
ny Which Will Place Ques
tion Squarely Before Them
IMOST DRASTIC OF ANY
AMERICAN NOTE SENT
President's Message Outlines
Warfare Since, Lusitania
Was Sunk Nearly Year Ago
Is Last Word Before Break
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHINGTON. April 17. The com
munication which he has drafted as
the last word of the United Slates to
Gcrr.-.any on the submarine issue was
completed hy President Wilson today.
It probably will be dispatched tomorrow-.
It outlines Germany's submarine ac
tivities since the Lusitania was sank
almost a year ago, and makes clear
that only an immediate change in the;
Gerran policy can make possible the
continuance of friendly relation,, bc-
Itween the two nations.
As the president was putting the
finishing touches to the note on which
he and Secretary 1-nnsing had been
working for nearly Br week. official
wcrd wr.s received by the Stale De
partment that the lives of two Amer
icans had been endangered by an at
tack on the Russian bark Imperator,
by sn Austrian submarine. Carl Bai
ley Hurs;. American consul 'general at
ilarcelona, Spain, who sent the report,
said the attack was' without warning.
One of the Americans aboard was
j wounded by a shrapnel shell fire by
tne submarine. A full investigation
of the incident was ordered by the
State Deportment. If the Consul Gen
eral's reiiort is borne out. it is prob
able that representations similar to
those about, to be made to Germany
wil! be sont to Austria. '
A soon a ..tb's President had fin
ished the communication to Germany,
he directed Senator Stone, chairman
of the Senate foreign relations, com
mittee, b invited to the White House
in order ihat he might be informed of
the intentions of the administration.
Senator Stone probably will see thk
President tomorrow morning odor
the cabinet meeting. '
Mr. Wilson himself was the only
official familiar with all the details of
the document tonight but it was learn
authoritatively that it is the most em
phatic and vigorous diplomatic paper
the President ever has approved. v
Attacks, without warning, by s'uo
mai,incs on merchant vessels since
Germany gave notice that ships carry
ing guns would be considered as ves
sels of war have been closely studied
by I he president with the resulting
conclusion that promises made by Ger
many have not been followed. When
President's preparation of ilie case of
the United States was begun it was
found that 65 vessels had been report
ed officially and unofficially as having
been attacked without warning by Ger
man submarines within the past few
weeks. Official reports have not been
confirmed all these these incidents,
however, and therefore all will not be
Included.
The attacks on the channel steamer
Sussex", carrying more than a score of
Americans, has been included in the
evidence o fthe United States as one
of th strongest proofs of Germany's
failure to adhere to her promises.
Official reports from Berlin that
Uer i-any was willing lo meet the Unit
ed States "more than half way" have
encouraged officials here to hope l hat
the German government may make
concessions at I lie last moment, which
may prevent a break. The president,
however, was! reported today as being
determined to torre the question to a
speedy settlement without quibbling or
diplomatic discussion. Although it
will not figure in the communication to
Germany because the necessary evi
dence is not at had the case of the
British steai:er. Kastern City, which
was sunk April 9 by shell fire. 1.10
'miles off Cardiff and that all the
passengers aboard, including two
American citizen,, had been saved.
The fact that the crew apparently
was forced to take to open boats 150
miles from shore indicated to officials
thnt the commander of the submarines
failed to observe the assurances given
by Germany that passengers and crew
of vessel, should bo removed fo a
(Coni limed on Tage 8)
Coach TelescopedOn New Haven, Bringing
Death to Over Twenty and Many Injuries
STEAMER SAILS
.
NEW YORK. April 17. The
American steamship Mongolia,
which hud been delayed iu this
port since Saturday on . a,-- '
count of a strike of her crew
for higher wages, sailed for
London today, the strike lmv-
ing been settled. The demand
of the seamen was granted by
the Atlantic Transport Line,
owners of the vessel.
SOS
nr ni rAnrn
ha I b lUb
IM III I Hill II
UU V fc-1.1 1 1 I La U
: , j
Convict In Rhode Island Pen-
.... . ..
ltentiary UedareS Me was
Present When Girl Was
n i i r. r . i
DUnea After UpperatlOn ,
4
CRANSTON. R. 1.. Ailril 17. The
mystery of the disappearance more
,tl;an IHe years ago of Miss Dorothy
i
DOROTHY ARNOLD
I MYSTERY MAY !
Ainoia, meuiDer oi a weanny .-ewing in the enemy countries.
York family, may be solved by the pur
ported confession of Edward Glennor
ris, an inmate of the state prison here,
giving details of her burial in the cel
lar of a house outside of West Poiut,
N. Y. The young woman bad died
in the house, he said, where she bad
teen operated on. A statement to
Warden A. J. Davis of the prison,
which he made three weeks ago, and
which he repeated to newspaper men
today, the prisoner said he was paid
2S0 for what be did by a "wealtny ! Sclent" ministry and exhort the niem
r,ian" wtiose name ii did not know, j bers of Parliament rot to lose the
Ar ac complice, when lie l:nd k no - n j opportunity to compel the govern-
as "Li'tle Louie" hired him al a Scv
enlii Avenue saloon it; Nev .Yprk ae-
oorc'ii e to his storv. sn.l drov .".ie
'putrii'obile which carded the" young
!v. !inti from New !t.x he'l- to
iPoisr. . ' -
The prisoner fixed "December. 1910
PS the time of the events whic h. he
described. It' was on' December ' U.
of thi vear tl.nl IM.-..il v rn..lrt Ip!.
;the home
mie of her father. Franc! R. Ar-!
a wealthy New York lmponr
rn,.iH - va- v,i, i,n,,nr.
. . ....
ana cropped out or siglit.
ropped out of sight.
Glennorris, who still ha ssx niotitns
of a two years sentence tc sejjye lor
attempted extortion froiu a IrfiyinVnce
clergyman, expressed uis willingness
to a.-f.'st in locating th plaiv wboro
the t ody was buried a.vl tthi'ie the
place from which the yout. woman ,
as taken.
v hen the prisoner told tw. story llnee j
v.-ceks ago he had expr-?.d ibe fearj
t.r ttr matter becoming public. Tne i
warden thought the inan was seeking j
ncioi'ety and took no a. n icpl
i'k a private detect- agency in
T.ovidenre tor investigate. When he
v.-i- told that ;fce agency lid not eon
si -i . the story enough to in ike fn'i'ui
ri . he said, he could no und-rrtjno'
it. He would not say whether he had
f. "r-i t;ny reasdn to char.f hi- pie
ioiit opinion in the mittt'l. ,
CARRANZA DEGREES
AGAINST ALL GRAFT
,, R,ilwvt TK OKiert 1
7 i ii
Ut urder wrucn wm
Eliminate "Overhead"
(By Review Leased Wire.)
MEXICO CITY, April 17. general
Carranza tonight Issued a decree,
framed for the purpose of preventing
graft, which for a long lime has pre-
railed in tne goveruniem inii-.i..
FORMER 110 ATTACHE VON
DiDcii AMn rniifi mc innimn
I ni hi nnu i uuii niiL iiiuiuilui
j employees having . charged hiPP''rs p.erman propaganda. His arrest is ex
jhuge sums frequently for supplying P(, tolm)rrow. Federal officials do
cars for freight and express,
The decree informs all government
railways that heavy fines and impris
onment will be imposed on those of
fending. The new law will become
..,....!.. 11...- 1 Thn valnu nf tliA na.
.. ne. n. r . m. ...... ...t ....
per peso has again dropped to two and ;
' .. .... t. i
one-half rents, but it i- understood
Ibat the government has made ar
rangements with bankers, whereby tb
rate Is to be gradually Improved.
General Carranza has issued a de
cree establishing an eight hour work
lng day for all government employ-:
,.e8 I
CONSCRIPTION
MAY BECAUSE
Much Disaffection Said To Ex
ist In Ministry Over Final
Decision As To Whether
Married Men Conscripted
!
. ? ;..Rpview i-ta"d w,e
l.U.IJU.. Anril 17. LllY-
'day l.-J for the cabinet com.,-
! make a final decision as to whether
; married men should be co!-..-r:piei,
a,taoks on th'' H'Overnm-nt. by
newspauers devoted to the kus-.- of!
orfcrii't!.:n. reached the . Iii-.:j: if
veh-n-n-e.
! . All '.Tit :rovernni'nt's
a'.ev
iuers at Antwerp and ii- the Dardan
elles and Mesopotamia and delays in
connection with munitions and the air
service were reviewed and contrasted
j with the perfect organization reign-
The Times' military cori-es-noiulence
nrli.t.l .. ... I..!.. . . 1 . . I . '
li unrii mi aim w u 11 nil rill mil hi'.'
map. purporting to show the exact
dispositions of enormous forces ol
German troops massed along the
British front in Flanders, and France,
and drawing the conclusion that
Great Britain still is lacking the
necessary reserves to meet a big at
tack.
These newspapers are openly ad
vocating the overthrow of the "iiivf-
; ""M. either to conscripi married men
"f resign, throughout the alternoon.
; " the lobbies of Parliament there
! wer rumors of grave cabinet dissen
' tions and of Possible resignations oi
' njiniatery ministers who favor unives-t
i al service. The council of ministers
mel ,al lms anernoon ana set ror a
' lu,le over an hour- Immediately after-
l"ar" " leaning ministers ait-ntieu
,h ar loan- '' 't i "i"r
tood was held as a resuU of decision.-.
stood was held as a result of decisions;
T(f'htA af tltu iniiiiiil Tliv n ill K
. . .."..." . ..
I "'"' " 7 '
qiln tomorrow,
According to
g to the best tniormt'.on.
however, there will be no resort to
OF CABINET
CRISIS
compulsion for married men. and tue;n!,rk bushier of Wm. Clark, ptesi-
Iniexmne u. turned will he Mlmi- le!"eT', of ,i,, Westerly Mil! of tb
I lines airearfv in.iir-nreil iii D... iii'maiMi
of the Associated Press tn.t th re
would be uo general compulsion on tlu
lines of "equal sacrific e for all ".
The press association says t'uat it
understands that while uiffervm-es or
opinion have manifested themselves
among the ministers, a serious crisi:;
in the ministry has thus far been he reK-rt that 30 persons had been
avoided. I'p to the present, there is killed, but la'er investigation threw
no news of any resignations from the doubt on this estimate. A report that
cabinet. Premier Asqnilh hail nn.:l' todies had been recovered was la
audience with Kins George arter theater disproved. There was still doubt
w ar council, presumably to acqimitit I a' midnight as to whPt 'he search of
the King with the nature of the de-'lhe ruins, which was being continued.
i cisions adopted.
(By Review Leased Wire.',
NEW Y'ORK. April 17. Captain,
i Franx von Papen, reralled military at- lion stating that one pasenger had
tache to the German embassy at-'en killed, four seriously injured
.Washington, was indicted by the fed-J and four were missing as a result of
I eral grand jury here today as the.ihe wreck at Bradford. R. I.
organizer and financier of an alleged Vice President Whaley o fthe New
conspiracy to blow up the Wellaud
"mL Wit" hinl lso '' indicted
Captain Hana Tauscher. alleged agent that 30 or more persons had been
of the Krupps in the Fniied States, mined to death in the "week at Brad
ami husband of Mine. Johanna Gadski, ! ford, were without foundation,
the prima donna: Constantine Govaui.j are- absolutely positive," h
Alfred J. Fritzen. and another man
whose name has not been revealed. It
was learned from a reliable source
Jm namM, ,s prominmt
whOMe name nag b nlen.
. ., iv . MnnHlnn with
not expect to bring
von Papen lo
trial.
The Indictment, it is understood,
was returned with the sanction of Ilie
I Department of Justice and is believed
estatllish a
' " " '
'in oe muni
precedent. No effort
to have von . Papen
brought here but the indictment will
be held In abeyance, in case he should
ever return tQ the I'nited States.
The ludlctuient charges in additiou
to the Wellaud Canal plot, that the
"purpose and intent of tbe defendants
(Continued on rage 6)
Gilt Edge Express From Bos
ton' To New York Runs In
to Local At Bradford, R. I.;
Serious Results
OFFICIALS DECLARE
ONLY FOUR KILLED
Local Train Was Practically
Burned Up While Station
Buildings Also Consumed
By Fire Which Started
BRADFORD R. 1.. April IS. Driv
ing through a thick fog, the Gilt Edg
Express westbound on the New York
New Haven and Hartford Railroad,
smashed into the rear of a local pas
senger train that had cunie to a stop
at the station here last night. The
rear coach was telescoped and set on.
fire and at least seven of the passen
gers were killed. 'An eighth victim
t1ldied later from Injuries. Thirty-fivrt
others received injuries and in some
'"' " as '",r 'oat death would fol-
; a .rrh of iheniins
was being' made in order lo locate
Mother bodies
The engineer of the local train said
that he had had trouble In making:
steam and when he arrived at Bradford
he wired to Nw London for instruc
tions. He wa stold to draw into a sid
ing at Bradford and let the Express
pass and was just moving his train
from the main track when the ex
press bore down upon him.
(By Review Leased Wire)
BRADFORD. R. I.. April 17--Thirty
or more passengers were
reiorted lo have been crushed or
binned to death in n collision of
trains on New York. New Haven
mhd Hartford Railway here to
night. The accident occurred at
":"tl o'clock and four hours later
wrecking and Imspita crews were .
said to have reached the place.
The dead were in the tear car
cf a foil' conch l-'cal train, bound
frmu Pvlon to New Loudon, and
which h:id stopped i the local
ststion when it was un down by
ttip Gilt Edge Express bound
-ftom Poston for New York. This
i oach was telecoped. set afire and
turned. The car also took fire
pnd the flames municat Ins to
the passenger station and freight
hous destroyed both buildings.
It v as ta'ed tliar her- were known
to have been .17 per sons in the de-
Proved car and 'ha: only six of there
I ' . I IFT-T-U til tf till ' - T rdl III' II I
I later.
Anmng those believed to have bedn
i A't'H'ican Thread company and W. M.
; r. also of Westerly.
j SEVEN LOCATED,
' WESTERLY, It. I.. April 17. A
hrkcih:in of !fce local train said tna.
"'Tp pre :" m.-engers in tbe rear
. and he hail le.-n able to locate
'ni.ly s even of these. This gave rise to
i would develop.
The belef that "0 persons had been
burned or crushed to death was ex
pressed by a number of the wrecking
j crew, but this opinion was not gen
erally har-d by others on tile scene,
fit was agreed that the list of dead
! probably would not be completed be-
fote rixvllxht
!
. OFFICIALS DENY.
NEW YORK. April 17.-, Officials
of the New Haven Railway announc
ed at 1UM0 p. n. tonkht that they
had received telephonic cnmmuniCH-
! Haven road declared shortly beropt
Jmidnicht. thai report sto the effect
added, "that not more than
fhretj
persons were willed, if that many.1
NO VERIFICATION
MEXICO CITY. April 17. Pnirin
the day no messages have reached
Mexico City tending to confirm the
rrepot of th finding of the body ot
Villa and the general disposition lo
official circles is to discredit the re
port.
Messages from various sections in
the north, received by the War De
partment continue to report defeats
of raiding bhands and their disposal.
In the war office it was said today
that the only sections of the country
now troubled with organized armed
resistance, ar the states of Chihua
hua and Morelos. In tbe lattw tbe
troops are marching from four differ
ent directions to order to surround
the bulk of Zapata's forces.
