B f IH
I WsMetal Prices I fr A fjA v V1 Ssf )t1t lYftT fr I 4 P. E CUV EDITION 1
per'S? Cj W ' WEATHER Utah: Cloudy To- M
per, f,rmt electrolytic, $28.0029.00. W night, Cooler in Southwest Portion; Ml
I " ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. t Wednesday Probab,y Fair. H
Forty-sixth Year-No 93. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, APRIL 18, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffice, Ogden, Utah. fl
I British Government Facing Acute
Crisis Over (General Conscription
i ' , .
CABINET UNABLE TO AGREE AND
ij HIGH OFFICIAL!! MAY RESIGN
Premier Asquith Avoids Immediate Rupture; Advances of
1 British Troops in Mesopotamia Checked Turks Drive
Enemy Back From South Bank of Tigris Germans
Abandon Violent Bombardment North of Ver
dun Claim Many French
Prisoners Taken.
J .
Petrograd, April 1 8, via London, 8:33 p. m. Trebizond,
j the most important Turkish city on the Black sea, has been
captured by the Russians.
! London, April 18, 2:06 p. m. A Reuter dispatch from
Copenhagen says: "A dispatch to the Kieler Zeitung from
Wilhelmshaven says there was a great explosion last Friday in
" the new torpedo works there, a number of persons being killed
and others wounded. The works were recently finished and
were inspected by Emperor William on February 25."
Review of War Situation.
After their attack of yesterday with
hejw forces on the French linps be
, tween Douaumont and the Meuse
north of Verdun, which netted the
Germans some ground near the Chauf
, feur vood. they have abandoned nc
' tnifv in this sector for the time be
Inc.
1 he recent advance of the British
alog the Tigris below Kut-el-Amara
nn Mesopotamia has been checked by
, the Turks who, according to London's
admission, have forced back the Brlt-
t isb lines on the south bank of the
' Tigm in places by from 500 to S00
( jards
j J The British cabinet crisis over the
aal roc rultlng problem Is still acute. An
U apparent indication that the cabinet
ja members had bean unable to agree on
A ' the conscription Question was furnish
lge J ed bv an announcement that Premier
E) ' Asquith would not make his expected
23 i announcement In the house of corn
alt . mons today on the subject. f
iS Bprlm announces that In yesterday s
t20 ,! fjehttng east of the Meuse 1.GS8 pns
dS ? oners were taken by the Germans, all
qtf 1 unbounded The total of French pris
M oners captured by German forces in
M 'i the Verdun operations to date is giv
13 ' en as 711 officers and 3S.155 men.
? Germans Again Aggressive.
at,1 Paris, April 18, 5 45 a. m After
eyj six davs rest, while effectives were
5? made up and stocks of ammunition
tfi ! replenished, the Germans again have
M ' begun a concentrated attack upon dlf-
ferent points of the French defenses
NJ at Verdun. The first point selected
itS was the one mile section between the
eft v Meuse and Douaumont which form a
30? salient that seriously Impedes the en
alt emy. It includes the famous Pepper
w ' Hill. .
198' , Approaches to this position are fur
kjj ther enfiladed by the French batter
3 les on the -west bank of the Meuse
m and It was with the view to facll Jtat-
tf! ing operations against the salient that
IM the Germans made their recent offen-
e bIvo against Cumiores and Dead
eeE i Man's Hill. That having failed tho
ifl now arc trying the effect of direct
.U.' wearing tactics, employing dense
SO I ' masses of infantry in small spaces
'& but so far with little success. The
as? ; net result of their efforts has been
J2 the gain of a small salient west of
3j Douaumont which, the French claim,
rM is unimportant.
$ French first line trenches In the
13 j Verdun region west of the Meuse.
ST from Dead Man's hill to Cumleres
vol were bombarded yesterday by tho
m' Germans. East of the river, relate
m calm prevailed during the nleut-
Yesterday the attack between Don
5 aumont and. the Meuse was very Mo-
Jent. The German forces Included
troops from five different d visions.
East of the Chauffeur sa Jt th "
mans penetrated a front line trench
but wore partly ejected.
I This information was contained in
" thn French official report given, out
this afternoon, the text of wmen wi-
l0''0n the loft hank of the Meuse
there has been a bombardment of
our first line positions between Le
Mort Homme and Cumleres. On the
right bank of tho river, the night
passed In relative quiet.
' Violent German Attack.
"It has been confirmed that the
German attack delivered yesterday
between the Meuse and the Douau
mont region took on character of
' extreme violence. Furthor Informa
tion S that this offensive acUon was
conducted by troops belonging to five
different divisions. n,,f.
"In the cast salient of the Chauf
feur wood the enemy penetrated our
flret llSo tronchw. but from this po
sition he urne in part driven out by a
counter attack.
"In the Woovro there has been an
artillery duel In the sector of Mou-
lanville A German reconnaissance
which was endeavoring to approach
tho trenches in tho direction of Hcr
manpere, northeast of St. Die was re
pulsed with hand grenadeB.
"During the night of April 17 aoro-
X planes of the enemy threw down sov-
If eral bombs, one of them i being an In
I cendiary missile, on Bolfort It has
heon reported that two persons were
killed and six wounded. The male
I trial damage wanot important.
French Positions Taken.
Berlin, April IS, via London, 3:43 p.
m French positions on Stelnbruch,
700 yards south of Haudremont farm,
In the Verdun region were captured
by the Germans in their attack of
yesterday, the war office announced
today The Germans took prisoner
1,646 unwounded men.
Tho text of the statement follows:
"Western front. Our artillery ex
tensively bombarded British positions
In the region of SL Elol. We easily
repulsed a weak hand grenade attack
directed during the night against one
of tho mine craters we had occupied.
On both sides of La. Bassee canal and
northwest of Loos, spirited hand gren
ade fighting developed. In the region
of Neuville and near Beuvralgnes wo
exploded several mines with good re
sults. Violent Artillery Duels.
"On the batlefleld on both sides of
the Meuse (Verdun region) there
were very violent artillery duels. On
the right bank of the river our troops
from lower Saxony wrested from the
French by storm positions on Steln
bruch stone quarry, 700 yards south
of Haudremont and on the right of
hills to the northwest of Phloment
farm. Forty two officers Including
three staff officers, and 1,646 men
were captured unwounded, in addition
to fifty wounded men.
"Attacks of the enemy in and near
Caillette forest were frustrated by our
fire when they were being prepared,
or when the first efforts were made.
French artillery was extremely ac
tive against our positions on the Woe
vre plain and against those positions
on the hills southeast of Verdun and
as far as the neighborhood of St. MI
hiel. "Eastern front Russian attacks
early this morning at the Dvlnsk
bridgehead on tho narrow front south
of Garbumovka broke down in front
of our positions with heavy losses for
the enemy."
Berlin Offers Proof.
Berlin, April 18, via London, 3" 45 p
m. in view of doubt existing In
France as to the accuracy of German
estimates of the number of PYench
taken prisoner in the battle around
Verdun, Germany will publish the
names of approximately 40,000 prison
ers taken In the Mouse district, and
also tho names of all Frenchmen made
prisoner In this war, the official war
office statement announces today.
Following the announcement today
of the capture of forty-two officers
and more thai! 1,600 men the official
statement says:
"Their names will be published In
the Gazettedes Ardennes, in tho same
manner as tho names of all French
men who have been made prisoner in
this war. Tho names of 711 officers
and 38,155 men whom we have taken
prisoner since Feb. 21 In tho battles
in the Mouse district also will be pub
lished. The reason is the semi-official
.- t- MAAAwnfr tt Anat flrtllVlf ntl Stilt
reports."
Turkish War Report.
Constantinople, April 18, via Lon
don, 12:25 p. m. Tho Turkish official
statement today says:
"Irak front: The situation Is un
changed. "Caucasian front: On the valley of
Tchoruk and on our loft wing there
waB local fighting. In tho other sec
tors of this front the situation was
unchanged.
"On April 14 an enemy aeroplane
coming from tho direction of Enos
(Galllpoll) flew over Adrianople
dropping two bombs without effect.
"In the neighborhood of the Suez
canal, one of our reconnaissance par
ties attacked an enemy detachment
and put It to flight after killing five
men."
Paris, April 16, 4:40 p. m. A semi
official note today gives an order of
the da yof General Petain, command
ing at Verdun, in praies of the resist
ance of the French troops to the tc
cent offensive of the Germans. The
note says:
"The emperor some days ago re
viewed one of tho divisions engaged
in the region between Douaumont
and Vaux, and It was there that he
said "the war of 1870 was decided at
Paris, The present war must end
at Verdun."
General Petaln's order is as fol
lows: "The 9th of April Is a glorious day
for our arms. The furious assaults of
the soldiers of the crown prince have
been everywhere broken. Infantry
men, artillerymen, sappers and avia
tors of the eleventh army were rivals
In heroism. Honor to all."
French Flyers Bombard Bulgars.
Salonlki, April 17, via Paris, April
18, 4:50 a. m Twenty Uo French
aeroplanes bombarded the headquart
ers of the Bulgarian staff at Dolran
early today. The Tald was an entire
success, the French officers say A
German squadron which attempted to
engage the bombarding French aero
planes was attacked by special French
rapid firing machines which forced
them to abandon the attack.
American Hoopllal Train.
Paris, April 18, 5 a, m An Amerl
ean hospital train recently presented
to the French army arrived In Paris
yesterday on Its first trip from the
front, bringing a number of soldiers
wounded In the recent fighting at
Verdun
VILLA PURSUIT
AT STANDSTILL
Expeditionary Commander
Confronted With Serious
Problem Carranza
Troops Insubordinate.
FIRE ON U. S. OFFICERS
Gen. Larrangos' Soldiers At
tack General Pershing's Es
cort Train Mexican
Press Misleading.
Camp of General J. J. Pershing, at
the Front April 17 (by motor and
wireless to Columbus, N. M., April
18). The American pursuit of Villa
Is at a standstill, because of the un
provoked attack upon American cav
alry men by the Insubordinate sol
diers of the Carranza garrison at Par
ral. At General Pershing's headquar
ters today there seemed no Immediate
prospect of the resumption of "the
chase while there were numerous in
dications that a continuation of the
pursuit would meet with armed resist
ance. A small party of American officers
was fired upon near here last night,
none of the Americans being Injured.
This coming on the heels of other
icports of sniping Is responsible for
the belief that the expeditionary
commander Is confronted with a seri
ous problem.
A report received here from Car
ranza sources that a Villa colonel,
captured near Cusihuiriachic, had
promised to lead a party to a grave
In which Villa was said to have been
burir-d last Friday, Is generally dis
credited by military authorities hero.
Newspapers published in Chihuahua
reached here today containing reports
of the attack upon tho command of
MaJorxFrank Tompkins at Parral. Ac
cording to these, Americans were en
camped in tho Plaza do San Juan,
when, despite tho efforts of the Car
ranza officials, the Mexican populace
attacked them with fire arms where
upon tho cavalrymen fought back.
The affair was described as being a
repulse of tho Americans, since they
retired finally to Lammos.
The newspapers pointed out that,
despite the unfortunate occurrence,
there was no friction between the
American commander and the Car
ranza authorities In Parral. both of
whom wero working to establish per
manent relations.
Reports reaching hero today from
Carranza sources, Bald that a constitu
tionalist force engaged a Villa com
mand under General Larangas, with
in a few miles of this camp two
nights ago, two Carranzistas and one
Vlllista being killed. It was a de
tachment of General Larangos' force
that attacked General Pershing's es
cort train near here Tuesday night.
Consul Receives Dispatch.
Consul Garcia today received the
following message from Gov. Enrlquea
at Chihuahua City:
"News of the capture of Villa has
not yet been confirmed. Many re
ports have been received that he Is
dead and these reports are considered
worthy of belief. Colonel Carranza
and the other chiofs are occupied in
tracking down Villa and bringing him
back dead or alive."
General Gavlra today received word
from Cuslhulrlachlo that Gen. Cava
zasas had not yet returned from San
Francisco Borja, where ho went for
Villa's body.
Gen. Bell Disbelieves Story.
Gen. George Bell, Jr., today declined
to discuss the boslb of a report ho sent
to Gen. Funston at San Antonio, In
which ho gave it as IiIb opinion that
the story regarding the- finding ot VII
la's body, was manufactured In Juarez.
"That was my opinion after hearing
tho various staries" he said.
General Bell has refused from the
first to place credence In tho finding
of the bandit's body.
rn
JAMES A. ALLAN DEAD.
Glasgow, April 18, 11:52 a, m.
James A Allen, formerly one of the
chief partners of the Allan steamship
lino, died iat- nhjht,
LAST WORD TO
GO TO GERMANY
Communication on Subma
rine Controversy Being Put
Into Diplomatic Code.
Document Covers German
Undersea Activities From
Lusitania Case to Date.
Washington, April 18 The Amer
ican government's communication to
Germany designed as the last word
of this government in the submarine
controversy was being put into diplo
matic code today for immediate trans
mission to Berlin.
The document is said to be the
most vigorous diplomatic paper Pres
ident Wilson and Secretary Lansing
ever have drafted. It covers the ac
tiv'ties of German submarines since
the Lusitania affair and is intended
to forco the question of a speedy set
tlement of tho submarine issue by
n.aklng plain that only an immediate
change In Berlin's policy can prevent
a rupture In the friendly relations
between the two countries. '
There were some Indications today
that Ambassador Gerard has been In
formed by the Berlin foreign office
of its desires to meet the wishes of
the United States, If It Is, shown that
tho channol steamer Sussex was de
stroyed by a submarine in violation
of the Gorman government's Instruc
tions and that the Count von Born
storff was authorized to make such a
statement In general terms to Secre
tary Lansing
Count von Bernstorff the German
ambassador, acting under Instructions
from his government, will discuss the
submarine crisis In general terms with
Secretary Lansing at 4 o'clock this af
ternoon. It was understood that tho am
hassador has no instructions to dis
cubs any specific case now In contro
versy between the two governments,
but to take up the subject broadly and
to seek tho viewpoint of the American
government in the present situation
Count von BernBtorffs engagement
to discuss the situation with Secre
tary Lansing in general terms lato
this afternoon, It was indicated, will
not delay tho sending of tho note or
cause any change In Its terms.
no
SEARCHING FOR
WRECK VICTIMS
More Passengers Believed to
Have Been Buried Beneath
Burning Bradford R. L
Local.
Boston Gilt-Edge Express
Crashes Into Rear Car
Over Thirty Injured
Lives Lost.
Bradford, R,' I., April 18, A search
of the wreckage resulting from the
rear end colllbion of' two trains on tho
New York, New Haven &. Hartford
railroad here last night, was still In
progress today, In an effort to deter
mine whether It contained any bodies
In addition to the five persons known
to have lost their Hvob. It was the
opinion of many persons who had
been at the scene during the night
that at least three other passengers
had been unable to extricate them
selves from the burning mass. More
than thirty persons wore injured.
All the victims were occupants of
the rear car of a local train, which
had started to run on a siding In
front of the station when tho Gilt
Edge Express from Boston crashed
into it. Coals from the express loco
motive and the explosion of a gas
tank set fire to tho wreckage and
the flames spread so rapidly that the
nearby Htatlon and freight house wero
destroyed, together with four wood
en coaches of the local train. Train
men were at variance In statements
as to the signals.
Washington, April 18. F. A. How
ard and J. P. McArdle, agents of tho
interstate commerce commission,
have been ordered from their stations
at Springfield and Worcester, Mass ,
to Bradford, R. I., to investigate last
night's -wreck on tho New Haven
road. '
II. A. CONTESTS
oi nnr
The Weber stake M. I. A. male quar
tette, ladies quartette and senior pub
lic speaking contests will bo held to
morrow night in the Wober academy,
beginning at 8 o'clock. Tho winners
will participate in the district contest
to be held on the evening of April 28.
Nearly all of the wards will bo re
presented in tho stake contests and at
the conclusion of tho program, the
stake pennant will bo awarded to the
ward gaining the greatest number of
1 Bqint9,
1 I,- i c Bfl
U. S. AIRMEN IN MEXICO MAKE LONG FLIGHT IN RECORD TIME H
s3Lr-'x wWJ? fSfiP 'fttwtt. f, 7tw 'law
' wM& fli k ' w c ., ' tC w
Ipfet ! tfk k SMM0W9m SS
Lt. Edgar S. Gorrell (left) and Lt. Herbert A. Dargue. Their machine in flight at Casas Grandes. H
Lioutonants Gorrell and Dargue, army birdmen, flew from San Antonio, Chihuahua, to Columbus, N. M., a, M
distance of 330 miles, in four hours and ten minutes, making only one stop at Casas Grandes. "There seems to jB
be no doubt that Villa was wounded," reported Lieutenant Dargue. "Conversations with natives and with physi-
cians convince me that he was shot through both legs, while another bullet lodged in his stomach. A man in wK
that condition without medical attention could scarcely live Iohk." I TO!
n l?i
GEN. PERSHING'S MEN REPORTED
SOUTH OF OUTLAW VILLA'S TRAIL 1
Pursuit Swinging Westward Into More Mountainous Regions
American Troops Again Fired on by Carranza Troops
President and Secretary Lansing Review Gen.
Funston's Message Copy of Punitive Expedi
tion Commander's Report Sent to Special
Agent Rodgers at Mexico City to Be
Communicated to Carranza.
San Antonio, April 18. General
Bell, reporting from El Paso to Gen
eral Funston gave It as his opinion
tnat after as thorough an investlga
tlon as he could make, that the re
port of Villa's death had been manu
factured In Juarez. Consul Letcher,
who said he had been In communica
tion with Cusihuiriachic also has fail
ed to verify the report.
Washington, April 18. Secretary
Baker laid before tho cabinet today
long reports from General Funston re
viewing the whole situation on the
border and in Mexico.
From the state department, the
president and the cabinet received an
outline of the diplomatic steps taken
or contemplated since the Carranza
government urged the withdrawal of
American troops.
A decision as tc what course now
to pursue ic to bo reached as to tho
military and diplomatic aspects of the
situation.
Funston Makes Fuel Report.
General Funston's dispatches camo
last night and are tho fullest discus
sion of his problems ho yet has sub
mitted". They contain no mention of
tho reported death of Villa. That
was the only hint of their contents
Secretary Baker would reveal. Tho
BubBtanco of the messages, the secre
tary Bald, was beyond the realm of
public discussion at this time.
It is understood that tho reports
show General Pershing's men to bo
south now of the farthest southern
point nt which Villa's trail has been
even indefinitely located. The pursuit
is Bwinglng westward Into tho moro
mountainous regions.
Renewed sn'ping around Parral was
not reported to the department, al
though news dispatches from General
Pershing's camp disclosed that Amer
ican troops had again been fired upon
by Carranza troops.
It was intimated that General
Pershing might have thought it neces
sary to call the department's atten
tion to tho situation very fully and
to await further instructions. It
seemed probable that present opera
tions at tho front are of a limited
character and would not bo extended
without more Instructions.
U. S. Casualty Report,
War department records gives the
names of those killed and wounded
In tho fighting at Parral last Wednes
day as follows:
Killed:
HERBERT LEDFORD, Private,
Troop M, 18th cavalry, Cincinnati.
JOSEPH or JOE RIDOLEY, not on
rolls of troop M, 13th cavalry, but
Jay Rlchley, sergeant, Is recorded as
from Saginaw, Mich.
Wounded:
BonjamlnjjjgGiiel, not found, but
Benjamin McGehee, corporal troop
B, 13th cavalry, from Dexter, Mo.
Walter E. Wllllngham, corporal
troop K, 13th cavalry, Albany, Texas.
Richard Tannous, corporal troop K,
13th cavalry, Taunton, Mass.
Lawrence M. Schomburger, private
troop K, 13th cavalry, Pittsburg.
Missing:
Charles H. Elchenberger, private
troop M, 13th cavalry, Glendale, L. I.
Herman E. Ivlrby, private troop M,
11th cavalry of Rome Ga. was killed
in a skirmish In -which his troop was
engaged on the way to Parral.
Tho list does not take In Major
Tompkins or Lieutenant Ord.
Report Sent Mexico City.
General Pershing's reports on what
transpired at Parral have been trans
mitted to Special Agent Rodgers at
Mexico City, to be communicated to
General Carranza as a matter ot in
formation. They are at variance with
the version communicated to Secre
tary Lansing by the Mexican embas
sy hore.
The department has information
that General Carranza will remain In
Mexico City only a day or two longer.
San Antonio, April IS. If Francis
co Villa is not dead ho has now an
oxcellont opportunity to escape Into
territory far beyond the most ad
vanced of the American detachments
because the punltlvo forco has pene
trated about as far south as It is go
ing to go with tho present organiza
tion. Official admission that it was
Impossible to extend the main line of
communication south of Satevo was
taken today to mean that tho field
of operations would bo restricted to
that district over which detachments
ot cavalry with provisions for one or
two days could ride. Beyond the
arcs of that fan Villa would bo Bafe
as far as the Americans arc con
cerned. Pershing Reports to Funston.
General I'ershlng Is believed to
have e:i plained In detail this phase of
tho situation in n report to General
Funston and to have made recom
mendations that more effective facili
ties for the pursuit of Villa be author
ized. Tho drivo of the three cavalry
columns to Parral and its environs es
tablished the fact that there is no
chance of obtaining provisions in that
region and that overy force sent for
ward must depend wholly on the
quartermasters with the main column
for supplies. They' were reported to
have fallen beck to Satevo, but
whether they havo started out again
to beat the trails in the district be
yond has not "been told.
Must Guard Against Treachery.
Officers here regard the Parral In
cident as Indicating clearly that Gen
eral Pershinga ?.mon now havo o
guard themselves not only against at- tifl
tack by Villa's men, but by those de- Irdl
tachments of Carranza's army that !?
are antagonistic to his announced at- !tH
tltude of co-operation. lj fl
General Funston sent messages to- IE 9
dny asking that a report be made to lill
him at once on the unofficial rumor M4
that a trainload of forage shipped MM
from Juarez to Chihuahua and intend- i mH
ed for tho American troops had been 'tl
seized by tho Carranza authorities. !
The arrival of some of the supplies .jtifl
sent to Chihuahua has been reported, ii-fl
but no advices that they had reached rfl
tho army had been received. llfl
General Funston was yet waiting to- lfl
day the confirmation of the story that 11
Villa was dead. No American offi- ll
cial has sent any report other than 11
repetition of the unconfirmed reports 11
from Mexican officials. 11
Punitive Expedition Halted. IvB
El Paso, April IS. The American K'l
punitive expedition into Mexico has rfl
virtually come to a halt in its pursuit ,fl
of Francisco Villa. Dispatches from i S
the front say that only small detach-
inentfi of cavalry are operated In Hm-
Red zones out of the army base at frB
Satevo. ; jH
Mexican officials here still believe r H
that Villa's body has been found JM
though no confirmation of the report H
was received during tho early hours ; V
today over tho Mexican telegraph ,
lines. Officers of the.de facto gov- I'M
ernment call attention to the fact lH
that Villa has never been reported :
south of San Francisco Borja, where 'M
his body is said to havo been located, 1
and that tho American forces are
only following a. blind trail if they S
proceed over the Durango-Chihuahua H
line.
If Villa's body has been found, it fl
shquld reach Cusi some time within !H
the next forty-eight hours. It is said Iffl
by Mexicans that the trail north Into iffl
Cua.1, from the point where tho body 'H
Is said to havo been found, is rather H
difficult and that it would take some 9
time before tho body could Teach the ' H
railway. H
Thtre have been no further reports
of clashes between the American w
troops and civilians since the Parral B
affelr and dispatches to General Ga- tH
Ira, military commander at Juarez, ,J
state that tho Carranza officials have jH
tho situation well in hand, though 'H
they admit that the presence of the '(M
American troops is a sourco of con- M
stant irritation to tho populnce. 'M
Jteports to mining interests here JH
state tho typhus epidemic has spread H
rapidly In tho Durango district. H
PREHISTORIC BONES FOUND. jfl
Baker, Oro., April 18. A fossil de- fflM
clared by scientists to bo tho lowor JLfl
jaw bone of the pre-historlc tertrabe- fl
lodon, one of the earliest species of IS
elephant of which there Is any record, fJH
wns on exhibition here today. It was EH
found in a nearby mine. Itl
MRS. REED SMOOT !!
UNDER THE KNIFE. QV
Washington, April 17. Mrs. Smoot, H
wife of Senator Reed Smoot, under- Ffl
went a successful surgical operation JM
today for the removal of gall stonos. lll
Tho operation was performed at the ( M
emergency hospital in this city by Dr. M
Mitchell,, a local surgeon. M
