T", ' .
j. j .j. j j j. j j J I I
j j j j j j
! THE LEDUEK li an adTertlsIa
j medium (hot brings remits. Onr
rate arc conalstcnt nilh clrcu- 4
I liitlon. Hooka open to Inspection. I-
!
J
(.J. THE U:THKK. !
, tV
! f Fair today anil (omorrotTj
'wntiacr. !
I I I I I 4 I J l I I i"
ft
vxHKir xF.rvBLicAtr-tm.
Mil. Y PVBJJO IKDOJM'Un.
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 1010.
ONE COPY ONE CENT.
-.5
IIASEIIAMi HITKliKU IS ARRESTER
IX INDIANA.
Lexington, Ky April 18. Theodore
Turner, formerly pitcher for tho Lex
ington baseball cluh, nnd now under
contract with the livnnsvlllo club of
tho Central I.oasue Is under arrest
In Kvnnavlllo awnltliiK return to Lex
ington to answer n charge of robbory,
according to a telephone message re
ceived by Sheriff Ilrndlcy's office from
tho chief of police of that city. Turn
er was Indicted by the Payette grand
Jury last Friday.
SUFFKAflK AMENDMENT PASSES
NEW YORK SENATE.
Tho New York Senate, by a voto
o! 33 to 10, passed tho Whltncy-Urero-ton
resolution for tho submission of
tho suffrage) amendment April 10.
Equal suffrage has proved of such vi
tality In Now York that flvo months
after tho November election Is has
passed both houses of tho legislature
In spite of the opposition of tho lead
ers. Tho amendment miiBt pass next
year's Legislature before going to the
voters In 1917.
Kirscli Flat Curtain
They Don't Sag
Fit Any Window
Make possible any draping effect from plain
single cutains to the most elaborate overdrape and
valance combinations. See them at
HENDRICKSON'S
Wall Paper Paints Rugs
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
GoodJIyear
Fortified Tires
FORTIFIED AGAINST
Rim-Culi br (ho No-Itlm-Cut feature.
Slowoutt by tho "On-Air" cure.
Loom Tred by many rubber rlret.
Ituecurity by 126 braided piano wire!.
Punctures and SWiddini by (lie double
thick AU-Weatber tread.
HOMES ARE MADE HAND.
SOME
with tho aid of our mill work. With
Its aid one can have beautiful doors,
cabinets; panclliigs, molding, stair
cases, and a hundred othor things that
go Into the making of a beautiful
homo. We Invito you to inspect our
products before your now building
plans arc finished.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone mid Second Streets,
1'hone 519.
A. A. McLnughlln. I. II. Behan
IMPORTANTMEETINGS
To Ho Held II) -Miison County Woman
Suffrage Lmkiio Wltliln Next
Few Weeks.
Tho Mason County Woman's Suf
frngo Lcaguo will hold its regular bi
monthly meeting Thursday, April 20, at
2 p. m., at tho Public Library. This
will bo tho last meeting before the
muslea'lo nt Mrs. George Harbour's
Saturday, April 20, nnd nil thoso In
terested In tho success of this event
should bo present.
On Friday evening, May 19, tho clos
ing session of the convention of the
Kentucky Federation of Women's
Clubs will bo hold under tho auspices
of tho Kentucky Kqual Rights Asso
ciation. Tho stnto board has given
much enre to arranging nn attractive
program and has secured Mrs. O. O.
Colnnm of Llttlo Hock, -rl(., to make
the principal address.
Through Mrs. Colnnm s romnrkablu
ability and influence, tho General As
sembly of Arkansas nt Its last session
passed n bill to submit to the voters
of Arkansas nn amendment to their
state constitution granting to women
the full rights and powers of citizens
suffrage on tho same terms ns men
During the Now York campaign for
a woman suffrage amendment to the
Mate constitution, Mrs. Colnam did
valuable and vnllant service for the
woman suffrage cause In that state,
She was one of the 'most brilliant and
effectlvo spenkers at tho suffrngo con
ference held in Louisville, March 27
and 28. While in Kentucky Mrs. Col
nam will speak at Lexington nnd Itlch
mond and It Is the hope of the state
board that two meetings beside tho one
in Mny8Villc, can bo nrranged for her
In tho Mnth Congressional district.
It Is the part of the friends of wo
man suffrage in Mnysvlllc nnd Mason
county to make tho local arrange'
merits fitting the efforts of tho stats
board and tho brilliant talent the board
has provided for tho suffrage feature
of tho Federation convention. Miss
Laura Clay, Mrs. Desha Hrccklnrldge,
ex-president, and Mrs. O. J. Smith
president of the Kentucky Kqun
Rights Association, and othor promln
cnt suffragists in the stnte will be
here.
Ical suffragists should attend tho
two regular meetings of the .Mason
County Woman Suffrage League, April
-'() and Mny 4. before the convention
and lend a hnnd In tho making the suf
frage evening of tho convention a bril
liant success.
Conic. De prompt). Don't waste
tho other woman's time these busy
days when time is precious.
ALICE LLOYD, President.
TRANSPORTATION SKXT PORTS
MOUTH PLAYERS.
Your Speed the
Sharpies Speed
Every member of tho family
turns the separator crank at a
different rate. Your present
separator loses a lot of cream
when the speed drops below
normal. This los3 amounts to
more than you realize.
No matter who turns the
crank, fast or slow,
B Q O Q i u
4
' THE NEW
SHARPLES
SUCTION-FEED
Separator gets atlthtcrtam all the tint: Tha bowl draws In Just enough
millc to insure clean skimming. Mora cream means mora money naw
profit without added expense.
The Suctlon-feed has many other important advantages. The cream is
?" PU . "ct thickneSS desired. The capacity increases with the
speed. The large supply can is but knee-high easy to fill.
The bowl has only three parts and no disks. There's nothing that's
heavy, clumsy or fussy to wash.
We want you to see this superb new machine. Come in and let us
bow you what it wlU do.
MIKE BRDWN
"Thi Bqtmre Hil Mux"
4.
LOWEST PRICES OF THE YEAR
4 cuffM4 Cora ouly 23 cents i cam best Lye Houlaj oaly.25 cent
i MHw;k4rt raBfk wly....S3 ttuU I cms ged Ttoes oavljr,,.S3 rU
The goods, jre worth mire At wboleMle cct, Wa.do not want to. carry
!ay 9W,
President Wllllnm nnlilnmnn nt thn
Portsmouth team Monday sent trans
portation to tho following players,
who will report there Wednesday.
April 13:
L. E3. Hiiiipr nrnnVlvn- Wllllnm So
baskus and Joe Bush, Albany, N. Y.;
aicwart unts, Kosevllle, O.: C. E
Killion. Tcrre Ilnute, Ind.; Oliver
Smith and Pearl Weaver, Lancaster,
u.; stowart Jacobus. Albert Retello
G A. Yomiir nnil Dimlinm Plahnr
Cincinnati; Wilbur Cost, Youngs-
town. O.; W. C. Mathews, Metropolis
111.; M. L. Hunt, Quaker City. O.;
Georgo C. Little. Peoria III., nnil Aiih.
tin McIIenry, Adams county.
HAMS0N-FRANK.
Friends In MuysvUlo aro in receipt
of the following wedding announce
ments:
Mr. and Mrs. V. II. Dawson
unnounco tho marriage of their
daughter
Miss Kdnn Dawson
to
Mr. Albert Frank
on
Wednesday, April 12, 191C.
Miss Dawson nnd her parents were
formerly residents of this city and have
a large number of friends and relatives
here to whom her marriago comes ns u
surprise.
PLAYERS ARE COMING.
Manager Jimmy Jones and a squad
of players will arrivo in this city
touay or tomorrow and will begin
practice immediately. Jones has sign
cd a number of tho best stars around
Cincinnati, and a number of other
good players. With continued good
weather the team should round Into
shape rapidly and will bo In good
condition when tho bell taps May 10.
THOMAS' R0I1ERTS0N DEAD.
TCx-Shorlff Thnmnn rtnlinrrnnn nt
Drnckcn county, illoit nr hln li nmn nonr
Minerva Monday about noon after a
short illness. Funeral Wednesday
morillllir at 10 o'clock from I lin flnr.
mantown church.
REES.
Word h&R ltnnn rponlvn.1 Wnrn nn.
nounclng tho arrivnl of a fine daughter
nt tho home of Mr. and Mrs', Dwlre
iices at ennora, Saskachownn.
Mr. II. M. Cracraft of Mayslick. who
was operated upon for appendicitis at
Hayawood Hospital, and was last week
removed to tho homo of Mrs. Suo Kll-
patrick on Llmcstono street, suffered a
roiapso and hiu condition Is critical.
Mr, Abo Galanty, student at Ken
tucky Btato Unlvorslty. Lexington, Is
spending tho Kaster holidays with his
parents, Air. and Mrs. Myer Galanty of
West Second street.
Mrs. J. L. Caso and son, Georgo
Thomas, of Covington, uro visiting her
parents, Mr. una Mrs, Georgo Schwartz
of West Second street
eieaae eHHaea4
Mr. II, L. Hoefllch was transacting
business In Cincinnati Monday.
IVe nare Jnitalled the latest Ini.
lroTd Carpet and Ku clcaalug ua
ckJse on the Market. Tekuhouo ux
wl we wl-u clefts aad tourtr your
HtRflM S4Hel aUamW nil BfhAfi H94fCt!tat I
W00 DAMAGE SUIT NOW REINJ
TRIED IN CIRCUIT COURT.
The suit of N. O. RIdgway, admin
Istrator, deceased, against tho Chcsa
peako & Ohio Hallway Company for
JB0.000 damages, one of tho largest!
suits tried In tho Mason Circuit Court
In recent yenrs, Is now being tried bo-
fnrn .1inlf?n P. TV Nnwnll nml n Iiipv
Ilio case was orlglnnlly filed in tho
Mason Circuit Court, was changed to
tho District Court of tho United StatCB
for the Eastern District of Kentucky
and was returned to the. Inenl eonrt hv
Judgo A, M. J. Cochran.
ROYS ARRESTED TOR ROWAN AU
THORITIES. Sam noute, Frank Walters and Carl
Kvans of this city, wero arrested Mon
day by local o'lllccrs on warrants Is
sued In Rowan county charging the
young men with disturbing public
worship. They will bo returned to
Rowan county to nnswer tho charge.
CoiiBtnblo James Mc.Vamnra and De
tective Stewart will leave this after
noon for that placo with the boys In
chnrge.
RRICK STREET WORK PROGRESSING.
EMMERMAYCOHEBACK
Garry Hcrrmnnn Wnnls Stellar Third
Sncker To Piny With Mnj.
vllle TIiIh Season.
President T. M. RursoII of tlio .Mays-
vllle llaseball Club, received a check
l for $C0O Monday from Garry Herr
'tnann, president of tho Cincinnati
I Reds, to apply on tho purchaso price
of Frank Kmmcr, star third sncker of
tho locnl tenm Inst season.
I In a letter which accompanied tho
j check, Mr. Herrmann said that hi
'would llko to send Rmmer back to
Mnysvlllo this year for n little more
seasoning with nn option upon him nt
tho end of tho season.
President Russell docs not know
Just whnt snlnry Emmcr would demand
but It rather of tho opinion that he
will appear In n Mnysvlllo uniform
again this season.
Kmmcr would make n valuable addi
tion to tho team, filling a position thnt
has always been a weak ono. Ho Is n
fnvorito with tho local fans nnd they
are all pulling for his return.
:.0l) DAMAGE SUIT FILED.
A much lnrger force of men was
put to work on tho brick street con
struction work on Sutton street
Tuesday morning 'and tho work Is
progressing rapidly. Tho concrete
curb nnd gutter on both sides of tho
Street Will lie finished tlm tnttnr
of the week nnd tho tenrlng up of
the main part of tho street prepar
atory to laying the brick will begin
next week.
HOY ARRESTED FOR COAL HEAVING.
Karl Gullctt. ngei! 15 years, was ar
rested by Officers Flzer, McXamarn
and Stewart Monday afternoon on i
chargo of coal heaving and was later
released on bond. Ho will bo tried in
Juvenile Court by County Judgo W.
H Rice.
OFF ON VACATION.
Colonel Andrew .Inr-lfRnn linv-.i m..
ond trick operator at the local C. & O
station, left Sunday night for a sev
crnl days' visit to frlonds nnd relatives
nt Afhland. Dnrltiir lila nl.m.nn
J. D. Darnell of Concord, will hold
uown tno jod.
HUNG JURY IN HARNETT'S -ADMINISTRATORS
VS. UK AND
CASE.
Monday in the Mnson Circuit Court
Omar Dodson filed suit against John
Coughlln, Agnes Dlorbowcr, Ornce
nicrbower, Fronk Ulerbowcr nnd Ellen
II erbowor for domages In the sum of
$500 and to restrain defendants from
further entering upon plaintiff's prop
erty In Cherry alley and romovlng""dir
therefrom nnd thereby damaging plain
tiff's property. Hon. A. D. Cole Is at
torney for the plaintiff.
House Cleaning Wants
IK
H
M
2 We can fill your order for J
Ammonia Scrub Brushes Dutch Cleanser N
Brooms Buckets 9
Sal Soda Snpolio Mops 3
2 Photic us your wants
Our new Spring wallpapers are Our price this week for butterfat,
ready for your Inspection. Como In, 37 cents, Maysvllle,
CRANE & SIIAFER. . MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
a
GET IT!
OXYTONIC
THE BODY CLEANER . g
A germacide for the stomach, liver and bowels. The big
A tm tTT'rT tinnni'fn.'n --. ......... . !,.
pjg Jlllllllll i nuil itllU fl I UUl ilWil llUtli kllUk SSI
eg "tired feeling."
S M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY "
on a
BUI
-QUICK SERVICE. PHONE 91.-
Judgo X. V. Itldgoway or Falmouth, Mrs, J. S. White and son of Ripley,
was hero Monday on legal business. were hero Monday ou business.
The Case Of ll.-imntt'c Ailmlnlatra.
tors against Dr. Lnnlln Tlrnn.l m-I,I1,
una oeen occupying tho attention of
the Mason Circuit Court for tho last'
several days, and which wnn Hmn
the Jury Saturday afternoon, resulted
in u nung jury ana the Jury was dis
missed. The suit was for 120.000 ii.im-
ages.
THE HOME DF QUALITY CLOTHES
The measure of a man's enjoyment of his en
vironment and associations is determined by his
own self-respect.
"HECHINGERS" Smart Clothes meet the ut
most requirements.
Suits $15 to $30.
THE SPRING CRETONNES
All sorts of patterns shadow styles, chintz patterns, paneled and trellis designs, formal striped pat
terns with medalions set in at intervals, etc. Special values at 25c yard. Especially popular with many is
a new American Cretonne which almost exactly duplicates the pattern of an imported chintz. Another
handsome Cretonne is a chintz pattern of pink and blue flowers, its Delft and old rose shades being espec
ially liked by many customers. You are cordially invited to see the special display of curtains and draper
ies now being held on our second floor.
OCEAN AND FRENCH SERGE
We will be pleased to have an opportunity to demonsjrate the value of these exceptional goods to you.
They are fully guaranteed for quality, finish and color, and are priced to meet the needs of all. Width is
varied according to price. 50c to $1.50 yard.
A WHIRL-AWAY OF TAILORED SUITS
Styles that are winsome, charming and different. No wonder we speak of a whirl away for these
smart suits hardly linger long enough to get into print. Values that areas obvious as sunshine. Buy to
day. Prices $15 to $35.
1916
Mr. l'erry Cracraft of Mayslick, is Miss Lucluda Ross of Chicago, will
hero for a few days, culled by tho so- arrivo Thursday for a visit to her sis
rious Illness of his brother, Mr. H. M. ter, Mrs. Rebecca Wilson of Limestone
Cracraft. ' street.
Mr. Mlko Regan of Covington, wiper-1 Messrs. Xuco llrady, Georgo II
visor of tracks for tho Cincinnati dlvl- Frank, Frank Hunslcker, Oeorgo Bur
slon of tho C. & O, railroad, was hero rls and Ross Owens were business vis
Monday ou legal business. ltors In Mt, Olivet Monday
: FOR THE M. H. S. GIRLS
The new regulation dresses are becoming immensely popular, as they are not only smart and trim in appearance, but reflect a
a degree of school spirit that appeals to the normal girl student.
, These garments can be had in your school colors, with desired emblem on sleeve. The caps are stamped, so you may embroider
, them with your class number. ' J
, At Oton, Harrow, Oxford and other English schools, students wear the colors, caps and clothes of their particular hall. It is an
i idea that American girls have just begun to adopt. 2
Come In and ask to see the three sample regulation garments we are now displaying. They are priced no higher than regular 5
1 garments, and can be had with your class Insignia and cap as required. J
We are local distributors for the very latest novelties a regulation dress for girls who attend college, high school or grammcr M
school.
These clever student-tracks can only be seen in this store.
ALL SIZES $4.98 ?
4
' 0MMafiD. w . IfcaWt 4f ,
JMPflN LAUNBKY CO.
ft t . f
' 1
