Til
VOL. XX NO. 29.
JJARliE, VKRMOXT, TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 1916.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
TH
BARRE
DAILY"
VERY VIOLENT
ASSAULT NETS
SMALL GAIN
' "
Great Forces Attacked the
French Trenches, All the
Way from Dead Man's Hill
to Cumieres and Penetrat
ed First Line of the Chauf
four Salient
AND WERE PARTIALLY
EJECTED THEREFROM
blow up and destroy property in Cana
da." Von I'upen was designated by federal
officials us tho "brain-' of the alleged
conspiracy. It in alleged in the indict
ment that he, with the others, "began,
set on foot, provided and prepared the
means for a certain military enterprise
to be, carried on from within the terri
tory and jurisdiction of the United
States against, the territory and domin
ion of the king of Great Britain, with
whom tho I'nited States at nil time men
tioned was and is at peace."
TO INSURE A
FULL SUPPLY
VILLA PURSUIT
IS HELD UP BY
PARRAL FIGHT
Trade Commission Will Probably Con
trol Sisal Crop, Says
Senator Ransdell.
The Paris Official Statement
Says That the Attacking
Force Included Troops
from Five Divisions East
of the Meuse There Was
Comparative Calm
Paris, April 18. Flench first line
trenches in the Verdun district, west of
the Meuse, from Dead Man's Hill to
Cumieres were bombarded yesterday by
the Germans. East of the Meuse rela
tive calm prevailed.
Yesterday's attack between Dmiau
niont and the Meuse was very violent.
The German forces included troops from
five different divisions. East of tho
ChauHour salient the Germans pene
trated a front line trench but were par
tially ejected, according to the official
statement this afternoon.
GERMANS CAPTURED
1,600 PRISONERS
When They Seized French Positions
South of Haudremont, According to
Berlin's Official Statement.
Berlin, via London, April 18. French
positions on Steinbrueh, 700 yards south
of Haudremont farm in the Verdun re
gion, were captured by the Germans in
their attack yesterday, the -war office an
nounced to-dav. The Germans took over
1,(100 prisoners.
BRITISH RELIEF
COLUMN SENT
FAR BACKWARD
London Official Report Admits That the
Troops Were Defeated and Forced
Back Distances Varying from
500 to 800 Yards.
London, April IS. The British lines on
the south bank of the Tigris in Mcsopo
tamia have been forced backed bv the
Turks for a distance in some places of
from 500 to 800 yards, gays an official
statement by the press bureau to-day.
DIRECT CLAIM
THAT GERMANS
SANK A BARK
Lloyds Says That a Submarine Attacked
the Russian Ship Schwanden, Which
Was Bound for Mobile, Alabama.
London. April 18. According to a di--patch
to Lloyds, the Russian bark
Schwanden. which left Greenock, Scot
land, March 23. for Mobile, was torpe
doed and sunk by a German submarine.
The crew weie saved.
GERMAN PUT UP
FIGHT BEFORE
HIS ARREST
Wolfe Von Ingel, Fifth Man Indicted for
Plot to Blow Up Welland Canal,
Use! Fists Against Fcur U.
S. Secret Service Men.
Washington, I). C, April IS. Senator
Ransdell, chairman of the committee in
vestigating an alleged monopoly to con
trol the output of sisal, announced yes
terday that the federal trade commission
would be asked to superintend disposal
of the 125,000 bales now in Yucatan, in
order to insure a sufficient supply of
binder twine for the American harvests.
The commission representing Yucatan
farmers asked the Senate to supervise
the sale of the crop, but this docs not
eomo within the provision of a legislative
body.
Chairman Pavies of the federal com
mission, has informed Senator Ransdell
that it has tho machinery to proceed
with the distribution and will send two
men to Y'ucatan.
Senator Ransdell introduced a rcsolu
tion to put the trade commission in
charge and the Senate adopted it.
W. R. Spencer counsel for the Yucatan
commission, announced that tne plan
would be satisfactory to him.
Alexander Legge, general manager of
the International Harvester company, in
troduced a statoment denying that his
company had anv interest in twine ex
cept to supply it. to the farmer at the
lowest cost, with a reasonable manufac
turers' profit in order to increase the ad
vantages and economies of the company's
machinery.
The increased price of the sisal al
ready made will compel manufacturers
to pay $"1,000,000 for binder-twine this
year, said he.
Mr. Legge said his firm s onlv rela
tions with the 1'lvmouth Cordage com
pany were those of a competition.
1 he open market in sisal, said Mr.
Leante, '"has been destroyed throii'di the
inlluence and finally through the direct
coercjon of the military government of
i ucatan.
"Every planter must deliver his sisal
to t lie commission which is appointed
and controlled by the military govern
ment. "If the government of the United
States permits this monopoly, twine
manufacturers can continue to do bus
iness, but the increased cost will come
out of the consumer."
Word from Pershing's Com
mand Seems to Indicate
That Further Effort by
American Troops Will Be
Met with Armed Resist
ance by Carranza Men
SMALL ATTACK MADE
ON AMERICAN FORCE
This Coming on the Heels of
the Parral Episode Has
Caused Grave Doubts of
the Passive Attitude of the
Carranza Troops
$2,000,000 IN AMERICAN
PROPERTIES DAMAGED
According to Private Advices from the
Mexican City of Parral Received
in Washington. 1
Washington. B. C, April IS Private
advices received here yesterday tended
to confirm the report that the $2,000,000
American mining properties at Parral
were completely do-troyed several days
before a detachment of American troops
were attacked there. Merrill Sc.ott, a
mining engineer, anil son ot General
Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff, who hail
been employed at Parral, has been re
ported safe on the border. He left Par
ral before the anti-American sentiment
there culminated in the demolition of the
mining properties, the advices stated.
NCamp of General Tershing at front,
April 17, via motor and wireless to Co
lumbus, X. M., April 18. The American
pursuit of Villa is at a standstill because
of the unprovoked attack upon American
cavalrymen by insubordinate soldiers of
the Oirranza garrison at Parral.
A small party of American soldiers
was fired upon near here last night.
None of the Americans was injured.
This coming on the heels of the other re
ports of sniping is responsible for the be-
f that the expeditionary command is
confronted with a serious problem.
At Pershing's headquarters there
seemed to be no prospect of the immedi
ate resumption of the chase and there
were numerous indications that the con
tinuation of the pursuit would meet with
armed resistance.
A report from Carranza sources that
a V ilia colonel promised to lead a party
to the grave of the bandit leader is gen
erally discredited, here.
NET LOSS OF 77 MEN
IN VERMONT G. A. R.
Total Membership as Reported at the
Department Encampment in Bur
lington Is Now 1,725.
Burlington, April 18. A net loss of 77
is tho record of the year for the depart
ment of Vermont, (irand Army of tho
Republic, as given at its 40th annual ses
sion, field here yesterday. The total
membership is 1,125 to-dav, as against
1.H02 at the lieginning of the year. There
were 80 deaths. The number of posts in
Vermont is now 86, none haviuir surren
dered their charter during the year.
J ne address of the retirinc department
commander, George P. Martin of this
city, submitted to-day, was an interest
ing paper, tie commended the various
auxiliary bodies upon their faithfulness
and loyalty.
the reception last evenintr was held in
the large parlors of the Van Ness house.
At the head of the receiving line were the
commander-in-chief of the Grand Army,
tne national president of the Relief corps,
Jr. Martin, department commander of
tho state of Vermont, Mrs. Elizabeth
Brown Dagget, pai national secretary
of the Woman's Relief corps, Mrs. Luclla
r. Jsickford, department president of the
Woman's Relief corps, and many of the
department officers of the Relief corps.
I he reception was very largely attend
ed and following the party adjourned to
the roof garden of the hotel, where a
very enjoyable, artistic program li ad been
arranged uy Mrs. n. B. Morgan ot (stan-
nard Woman a Relief corps of this city.
There were duets by Miss Mary Magnei,
flute, and Miss Hazel Morgan, piano.
Mrs. J. A. Corbin gave, several of her
highly entertaining , readings and Leo
asey gave recitation!.
FIVE KNOWN
TO BE DEAD
In New Haven R. R. Wreck
in Which Four Cars and
Station Were Burned
EXPRESS CRASHED
INTO LOCAL TRAIN
Accident at Bradford, R. L,
Was Accompanied by
Terrible Features
GERMANY ORDERS
ITS AMBASSADOR
TO MEET LANSING
VILLA'S "DEATH"
MANUFACTURED
IN JUAREZ
General Bell, Reporting to Funston, Re
ports That After As Thorough In
vestigation As He Could Make,
.the Story is Untrue.
Washington, I). C. April 18. General
Bell, reporting from LI Paso to Funston,
gave it as his opinion after as thorough
investigation as he could make, that the
report of .Villas death had been manu
factured in Juarez. Consul Letcher, who
said he had been in communication with
Cusihuiriachic, also has failed to verify
the report.
DEATH OF GIRL STUDENT.
H.,
New York, April 18. Wolfe Yon In
gel, secretary of Franz Yon Pa pen, for
mer military attache of the German em
bassy, was arretted to-day in Von Pa
pon's olli-e on Wall street alter a list'
Eunice Kenney of Portsmouth, N,
Was Freshman at Middlebury.
Middlebury, April IS. Miss Kunice
Kenney of Portsmouth, X. 11., a fresh
man in Middlebury college, who was tak
en suddenly ill with pneumonia last wee;t
Monday and removed to the Maiy
Khtcher hospital at Burlington the same
lay, died at the hospital late Satur
day afternoon. .Miss Kenney 's sudden
illness and death has caused keen sor
row to all the student bod v. Miss Ken-
uev was one of the most popular girls
of her class and was universally ad
mired and respected by those who knew
her. She was a good student and active
in Christian work at tiie local Baptist
hurch. She was a member of the Me
morial Baptist Sunday school and taught
Sunday school class there. She also
sang soprano in the college choir. Miss
Kcnnev was IS -scars old. She is sur-
ived by her mother and Several broth
ers and sisters. Her mother was sum
moned last Wednesday and was with
her Vhen she died.
AMERICAN CASUALTIES.
MONTPELIER
Pliny LaForrest Prosecuted for Non-Support.
In Parral Battle Have Been Sent to San
Antonio.
San Antonio, Tex., April 18. A re
port from (ieneral Pershing received yes
terday containing the names of dead and
wounded in the Parral fight Wednesday,
gave vnore details of the incident that
preceded Major Tompkins" entry of Par
ral The report said it was the insist
ent invitation of a captain of General
Lozano's staff that caused Major Tomp
kins to enter the city.
(General Pershinsr said a captain of
General Lozano's staff visited the Ameri
can camp I uesday nignt, leaving after
breakfast Wednesday morning. He in
vited the Americans to go directly into
Parral, but to guard against anv im- I
pleasant incident, Major Tompkins sent
forward a courier who remained unre
ported.
The following are thp names of the
dead and the wounded in the action at
Parral :
The Dead.
sergeant .iok ridgley.
pr i y ate herbert lkdfori). .
The Wounded.
Major Frank Tompkins.
Lieut. James B. Ord.
Corporal Benjamin MeGlicl.
Corporal Richard Taunos.
Private U M. Shedyer.
In addition. Private Charles Eichen-
bergcr was reported mising.
There Are Some Indications That Berlin
Foreign Office Is Readyto"Meet""""
Wishes of the Uniteji States if
Sussex Case is Proven.
Washington, D. C"., April 18. Count
Von BernstortT, acting tinder instructions
from his government, will discuss the
submarine crisis in general terms with
Secretary Lansing at 4 o clock this att
crnoon. It U-understood that Ambas
sador Von Bernstorff had no instructions
to discuss any specific case now in con
troversy between the two-governments
but to take up the subject broadly and
seek the viewpoint of the American gov
ernment, in the present situation.
1 here were some indications that Am
bassador Gerard at Berliu had been in
formed by the Berlin foreign office of its
desire to meet the wishes of the tinted
States if it is shown that the channel
steamer Sussex was destroyed by a sub
marine in violation of the German gov
ernment inatrfcefion and that Yon
Bernstorff was authorized to make such
a statement In general terms to Lansing.
WIRES BLOWN DOWN.
tight with four agents of the department support,
of justice. Von iig-l is the tilth man in- : plmiatio
1'linv IForrest of Northfield appeared
in municipal court this forenoon before
j .Indue E. M. Harvev on charge of non-
He pleaded cuiltv and an ex- briel
ot justice. on ingcl is the tittti man in- ; i.1Hntirn of the facts bv (irand Juror
dieted yesterday Willi on I a pen, j v. r. White of Xorthficld, who prose
charged with conspiracy to blow up tl,ejnlt,.,t r,.s!,!,, jn t, respondent being
Welland canal. The other three are a pt. I sentenced to the bouse of correction for
Hans Tau-cher. alleged aydit of the ot more t han a vcar nor less than eight
Krupps in the t inted Mates and Im-I months. The s.'ntenee was suspended,
hand of Mme. Johanna Gadski, the prima however, snd UKorrest wna ordered to
donna; Constautine Govani, Allied J. j,,y ,),,. ,, f M; IO rrp, , r-jsier pf
'"i"'"- j Northfield. appointed trustee for the pur-
Federal officers do not expect to bring j ,,... for the anpport of his family, eon
Yon Papen to trial. While he is no ion- j.jitingr f a wire snd six children, La-
cr immune imm prosecution ty the I ml ! Forrest, it is a. We ,. ha refused to ae
So the Mexicans Cannot Report Prompt
ly on Villa Matter.
El Taso, Tex., April 18. General Ga-
Gavira, Carranza commander at
Jirarer, announced last nifrht that the
.Mexican telegraph wires between Juarez
and Chihuahua had lioen blown down
near Pearson about noon and for that
reason be was unable to learn any fur
ther details of the reported discovery of
the body of Francisco Villa. At "the
ine time a telegram filed at Chihuahua
City, presumably before the interruption
of the wire service, was received bv the
Associated Press from Consul I Etcher
j savins? that nothing was known in the
Washington, D. C, April 18. The eom
municatiou which ho has drafted as the
last word of the I'nited States to Ger
many on the Submarine issue was com
pleted yesterday by President Wilson.
The document reviews Germany's sub
marine activities since the Lusitania was
sunk almost a year ago, and makes plain
that onlv an immediate change in the
German policy can make possible the
continuant- of friendly relations between
the two nations.
As the president wag putting the fin
ishing touches to the note, on which he
and Secretary Lansing had been working
nearly a week, onhcial word was received
bv the state department that the lives
of two Americans had been endangered
by an attack on the Russian 'bark 1m
perator by an Austrian submarine. Carl
Bailev Hurst. American consul general
at Barcelona. Spain, who sent the report,
said the attack was without warning.
One of the American citizens on laiard
was wounded by shrapnel shells fired by
the submarine.
A full investigation of the incident
was ordered at once by the state depart
ment. If the consul generals report is
borne out it is probable that representa
tions similar to those about to lie made
to Germany will be sent to Austria-
Hungary.
As soon as the president bad finished
the communication to Germany he di
rected that Senator Stone, chairman of
the Senate foreign relations committee,
be invited to the Wriite House in order
that he might be informed of the inten
tion of the administration.
- V
Bradford, R. I., April 18. Search of
the wreckage resulting from a rear-end
collision of two trains on the Xew York,
Xew Haven 4. Hartford railroad last
night was still in progress to-day in an
effort to determine whether it contained
any bodies in addition to tWo five per
sons known to have lost their lives. It
is believed that many were able to ex
tricate themselves from the burnin',
mass.
The Known Dead.
The known dead are:
THOMAS ROARDMAX of AVesterlv.
JEAXETTE CLARK of Westerly. "
WILLIAM BARBER of Westerly.
MARGARET BLISS, address unknown.
MRS. OSCAR MARTELL of South
bridge, Mass., (died at hospital).
Among the injured were;
Alfred Martell, aged 12, Southbridge,
Mass., gash in head.
James Martin, Xew York, head and
scalp wounds.
A. I. Williams, Groton, Conn., head
cut and right leg and right knee and
foot severely injured.
Simon Connor, Old Lyme, Conn., head
badly mangled.
Mrs. James Hogg, Westerly, right an
kle broken, right arm fractured, cut
about face.
Alfred M. Davis, Winthrop, Mass.,
shoulder dislocated.
James K. Acklanil, fil Broadway, Xew
York, badly sprained wrist, cuts and
bruises
Miss Smith. 611 Broadway, Xewport
R. L, side badly injured.
More tlisin 3it were injured. All the
victims were oxipants of the rear coach
of the local train which was about to
run on a aiding in front of the station
when the Gilt Edge express ran into it
The wreckage took fire and the flames
spread to the station and freighthouse.
which were destroyed together with the
four wooden cars of the local train. Xo
one on the express train was injured.
The trainmen are at variance in state
ment.s as to the signals set against the
express train. Ihev agreed that the sig
nal nearest the local was set for danger.
lharles H. M.insfiem, the express en
gineer, said tho signal next behind
showed a clear track and when he caught
sight of the danger signal through tho
fog it was too late to prevent a crash.
Engineer Mansfield remained here to
lay, not tinder Restraint, but with the
understanding that he was not to leave
until the several investigations already
started had been completed. Mansfield's
record, it was stated, showed that this
was the first time in his 29 years service
as an engineer that he had been in an
accident of this kind.
Great confusion followed the collision
and it was a long time before definite
knowledge of the extent of the disaster
could be obtained. As the flames of the
burning cars and buildings died out, the
train yard was left in darkness and those
who went to the assistance of the iu-
jured, worked under great difficulties.
The only telegraph lines in the town
went out of commission with the burning
of the station and the only communi
cation with the outside world was by a
single telephone wire. Over this help
was summoned from Providence and Xew
London, the former sending a .wrecking
train and physicians and the latter city
iispatching a hospital train.
A brakeman of the local train said
there were 37 passengers in the rear
car and that he had been able to locale
only seven of these. This gave rise to
the report that thirty passengers hail
been killed, but later investigation threw
doubt on this estimate. A report that
WETMORE & MORSE
SUED FOR $25,000
Charles Barclay Claims Damages for Loss
of Eyesight, Partial Loss of Hearing
Partial Disability of His Right
Hand Two Other Suits Entered.
Charles Barclay, a Williamstown quar
rytnan, has brought suit in county court
against the Wctmore & Morse Granite
company for f'ifylOO as the result of in
juries sustained while employed at the
quarry of the defendant company May
21, 1915, as ft powder man. In the speci
fications filed yesterday with the clerk,
the plaintiff alleges that the company
failed to exercise the proper amount of
safety for its employes and that through
the negligence of tho company a blast
exploded prematurely and caused injuries
to the plaintiff which resulted in the
loss of eyesight, partial loss of hearing
and tho partial disability of his right
arm. It is alleged that the loreman di
rected him, the plaintiff, to prepare a
blast to dislodge a stone and that while
doing so another stone fell, causing an
explosion. S. Hollister Jackson appears
for the plaintiff.
A suit for $1,0(10 has been entered by
Henrietta Guozzoni against Robert and
Lucy Colomlxj of Barre, the case grow
ing outy of trouble which occurred in
Barre, on Granite street, March 5, 1910.
The plaintiff avers that the defendants
entered her home and abused her verb
ally and when she asked thcin to leave
they attacked her. Colombo, it is al
leged, held her while Lucy Columbo beat
her, pulled her hair and threw at her a
stove lid and coffee pot full of boiling
coffee. R. A. Hoar is attorney for the
plaintiff.
A third case entered was that of Hat
tie F. Dix vs. Clarence S. Cooney, as
sumpsit, $500 being the amount named.
Jackson is attorney for the plaintiff.
A Barre Case on Trial.
II. G. AVoodruff, former cashier of the
Granite Savings bank of Bane, was the
first witness examined yesterday after
noon in the case of J. K. Pirie of Wil
liamstown against the above bink, the
suit being brought to recover $4,000, the
amount of a note involved in the suit.
The witness testified to having received
a note trom Lowe & Mercer, former
granite manufacturers of Montpelier, to
i. K. Pine, endorsed by Mr. Pine, the
note having been received in 1914. He
admitted under direct examination that
he had never demanded payment from
Lowe & Mercer, although he called their
attention to it several times and he nev
er notil.ed Mr. Pirie that Lowe & Mercer
had not paid the amount of the note.
The case was tried at the September
term and the jury disagreed. The jury
empanelled yesterday to hear the case
follows: W. H. Berdan, John Holland,
C. L. Hoi ton, J. P. Mack, S. A. Xelson
G. II. Howe, B. E. Sanders. M. M. Good-
ell, A. E. White, Carroll Wheeler, John
F. Lee and A. M. Snow,
FOUND BODY
IN RIVER
Maurice R. Gray, Age Near
ly 8, Drowned Chasing an
Electric Light Bulb
WHILE HIS BROTH"
was fishing r; BYi
1
Boys Were Near junction of
Gunner Brook and
Stevens Branch
LANE COMPANY EXPANDS.
New Business Causes New Position Ad
ditional Building to Be Erected.
The Jjine Manufacturing company of
Montpelier has created a new position,
that of manufacturing manager, the of
fice leing considered advisable because
of the continued growth of the business,
Mr. Wilson himself vv th rnl- nrfi
cial familiar with all the details of the i 30 ,""li, be'n recovered was Inter
document, but it was learned authorita- disproved
lively that it is the most emphatic and
vigorous diplomatic paper the president
has ever approved.
NOT YET WORKING
Because There Is Lack of Stock at Mil
ford. N. H.
Milford. X. 1L, April 18. The granite
cutters' bill came back approved Sunday
and yesterday morning the men were
ready U go Iwick to work. Most of the
cutting plants did not open up. as at the
time of the shutdown they were all out
of stock and the quarries are full of wa
ter. It will bo two weeks before the
conditions are normal.
Committees Will Confer To-night.
The local train, which is operated be
tween Boston and Xew London, left Bos
ton at .':0.1 o'clock yesterday afternoon.
It was made up of two ciachcs, a smok
ing car and baggage car and a locomotive
that, according to the conductor, was in
trouble much of the way. Between
ids, Mich., has been chosen to till the
new office, having already assumed his
new duties. Mr. Raymond comes to
Montpelier and the 1-aue cempanv with
an excellent record, having had extended
experience since 190,1 in the line of work
over which he will have charge and has
held responsible positions in Xew Eng
land and the middle western states. Mr.
Ravmond has encaged the Richardson
house at 13 Baldwin street, and will be
joined shortly by Mrs. .Raymond and
two children.
The new position does not conflict in
any way what scoter with other employes
or official, nil of whom are to be te-
tainod in their respective positions. The
force ot the company has leen largely
increased since the depression of a year
agi and activity in the lumber business
has created an increased demand for the
company's regular line of woodworking
machines.
Large shipments have recently been
mno and new ones are underway Hiid,
besides this, the company is developing
the manufacture of standard machine
tools and already have manufactured
and shipped a number of these machines
which have met with such favor that.
added orders are being offered from the
largest machine houses in the country.
The company intends to develop and
markket a full line of cylindrical grind
ing machines.
The product of the Lane company en
joys a world-wide reputation tor quaii-
Kim.afon nd We.terk- the enr-inn f.ilp.l ! tv. durability and efficiency, and by
to make steam iirooerlv and there werelRradual development and increased force
several stops. The train had stopped in
front of the local station when the ex
press that had left Boston at fl:S4
o'clock emerged from a heavy fog and
smashed into it. The rear car of the
local train "took the brunt, of the blow.
Like the two other passenger cars, it
was of wood and a moment after the
crash was in flames.
The Gilt Edge Express left Boston at
5:34 o clock yesterday
lis l'en ol bge.l t i gi, in the support
f the family on seerl c-csj,,ns.
Mr. and Mr. Mar-hall W0...1 of Main
street went to I"urlinL'tn to-Jjv fr a
brief visit.
B
BIGGEST SHIPLOAD OF MAIL.
rd States civil authorities, sin-e he ceased i(.PI1, work v hen proffered and the tnu n 1 ,-" p"' TrTlw? thp finding of the ban
staff, the often -e with which be is
charged is not extraditable under any
treaty with a foreign government.
The indi tmetit. it is tin It rtd w as
leturned with the sanction of the de-!
irtment of iuife and is Iwliete.l l, i
establish a precedent. No effort
made to lie V n Papen l.r . 1 l-' t here
but the indictment will t-e h-;,J in 1v-nr-e
in c he sieoili ever return to the
I trted Mates,
Ti e ind tment e' are. j(l a M 11 n lo
the We'land enal plt. Ih.it
r(;rpc? and intent of the ,!
St'. T, J t ,
'11 l"?),er duties as eirt.r in the I.al tele-
New York to Carry 13,000 Sacks and
2,000 Parcels on Next Trip.
New York. April I. When the mer
i.an bner New rrk leaves here W.!n..a-
phon- rx, .antre. .rtcr sceral eekjIilv it ,v, ,Nr,, ,3 ,,,-,
a-t: on j ss.- ,n .vit.. k and Han-j..k, f m,, 4nd 2l parcel th.-i:t!,t
over. N. II jt ,hf! 4r?,.,t rt,d f ,,,! fyoT rar.
A o.s 1 n oc n i.i-i in i-,e c iv cleric s ned bv one eel. Su-fnsi..n of m,!
the irxns'er of t i nier- ,.i 11. tn,rUn 1
a (mouth and ti e delay in the .!.: z f the
Concord, X". IT.. April IS. President was due in Xew- York at 11:15 p. m. The
lolin .1. Scully of the gianile cutters ,01'" "t'T outside of Boston before the
union heads the union committee w hich i :" r"'' occurred ' hi 1 rov mence,,
will confer with the granite manutaetiir- ; where the train arrived at 6 o'clock. The
crs 10 niK'il on me matter of the new 'express was iuiin pis nines 01 m esier
screement. The other member ,,f the'l.v- where it was due at 7:35, when the
committee include Michael J. Murphy, i crash came. The express was made up
(Ii-orge Bourne, (War ( arlson ami tieori'e ' of parlor cars, Pullman smoking car,
Evans. The eommittee of msniifai't ur-'dining ear and coachea. '
era includes P. ,t. Mctarcn oT We-teily, ' T he explosion of the boiler of the ex
it. L. .lolm Swenson. Omar S, Swen-oti, ! prc-s engine spread fire rapidly through
Harry Perry and Richard Carlson. ithe wreckage. Before the lire depart-
1 no 111. room e-m ii mrsiTiir irum l ester-
and equipment the company is adding
its name to the list of important ma
chine tool builders in the country.
Already the company is working over
time and plans to add in the immediate
future at least 100 skilled mechanics.
Plans for a new building have been com
pleted and construction is to be started
at once.
The new building to lw constructed
afternoon and!w'" he of brick, two stories in height
and will have dimensions of about 40 hy
40 feet.
NO RECOMMENDATION.
jlv. after a six mile run. the cars which
LICENSE HEARING OPENED.
j caught fire bad U-cii destroyed bv the
Posrible Course of Senate Committee in -flames, and the station an'i adjoinin
Brandeis Ca?e. I freight bouse were smoking ruins.
,1
TWO UNACCOUNTED FOR.
resist ermg
t was "the y n tipper L!m 'tTret to t . A. Wat
r, U&ts I 'of t !!: stmt lv .'"im P. Pant.
Mms'Hi hai caused the accumulation. le"ht for the Snai
i asn.ngt..n. .spin i 1 ne nomination
of Ixmis It. B.aii.bis to tll(. .,);.rcT?e
eonrt w.is Tisi.,cr"l ;an ve-teTd'V bv c t -1 ... r-- I consumed in 1
AlLUIUll I IV IS I . 1 i 1.13L til W IPfK 1 J . -
he Senate judiciary cmmittee without 1 . , There was a fee! in
action. Another meeting :H Is? bell t " "w ,v,- i applicants that the c,.mm:.i.-r
to morrow. vrtr York. April IS. A revised Ii.t of .be .i overwhelmed with pr-!
1 or mn.i i iot rt,.e there ti e dead and injured, given out at the ; preclude the ssiiiuny ot anm-i ti. u
are irprtin thit the n mmat:on may I Sear Haven oifcea t" ihv, pla.ed t'e the li.,ne- f.r a few dsya, t'fri--"
rei.rte. t t'e Senate- witiont tv ! n umber of deal at five, with two others 'it is t-oassble t! at the li,rs.. .! '
The I . 1 T.-e t :a
Considerable Squad of People Awaited
the Proceedings.
Kitty people or more ere in the cor
ridor at city hall this afternoon at 1:45
o'clock waiting for the license commis
sioners to convene fT the hearing set for '2
o'clock in the council ehamlsr. Many
wh planned to 1 on hand in go. sea
json are persons who have applied f-T
j liis-nscs. either ol the first or second
I, lt:ti.- u lt.i 1
Jilasw. (ri "iiii.-i 11 t'liiium 11. nar-i pre- 1 !t,j.
J side 1 at tne hearing ana 11 was ex;-te,i
'that nei rh a whole aitern s.n would
r:ng the pr.destant-.
a irion miff of t'e
fs'nv,' t
ts a to
After dvnamite and grappling iron
had been used with futile result
throughout the night, three men in .
boat, W. M. Martin, Andrew Larkin and
Erwin Wit ham succeeded in locating tho
body of Maurice Ravmond f!rav, seven-
year-old son of Mr. and Mrs. John A.
rav of Xorth Seminary street, in tho
Smith, Whiteomb & Cook millpond just
north of the Blackwell street bridge this
forenoon at 10 o clock. The body was
brought to the surface with a pikepolo
by Martin at a point near the mouth of
Gunner brook, eight feet from the shore
of the branch ahd in 10 feet of water.
The remains were taken to the under
taking establishment of B. W. Hooker fc
Co.
The discovery of the body nearly 50i
feet below the spot where he disappeared
followed a search begun soon after tho
lad was last seen at fi:45 o'clock lash
night, which enlisted the efforts of th
police, the street department and a largo
number of volunteers. Young Gray's fa
ther and his older brother were on thu
bank of the branch when the body was
t iken from the water to-day. Dr. .L W.
Stewart, the local health officer, was
called to Blackwell street and he gave
permission to have the remains removed.
Young Maurice and his brother, .Tack,
aged 11, left their home at 134 North
Seminar' street around 5:30 o'clock
Monday afternoon, .lack had a fishing;
tackle and announced that he was to try
his luck in Gunner brook. It appears
that the two boys, instead of fishing;
along the banks of the brook, went al
most immediately to the river, .lust
above the Blackwell street bridge Jack
dropped his line and continued to fiSlv
until darkness approached. As he was
pulling in his line for the last time, tha
younger lad's attention was diverted by
an incandescent globe floating down the
branch in midstream. Seizing a h.uulful
of pebbles, the little fellow started
throwing at the globe. He followed th
target as it floated dowifrtrettm-and jusb
as he disappeared around the corner near
the sub-station of the Consolidated
Lighting company. Jack, seeing his
brother wade into the w.tter. shouted to
him. Apparently Maurice did not hear
the warning and in the next moment he
was caught up by the current und borne
down the stream.
The older Gray bov hurried home and
notified his parents. Police headquarters
was advised of the youths disappear
ance and soon afterward Street Supt. J.
( . ilson and his men were asked to
join in the search. Clinging to the faint
hope that perhaps the lad had swung
onto the bank, after rounding the sub
station corner, and gone up street, a
thorough canvass was made of moving;
picture theatres uptown last night. As
the night wore on, however, it becania
more and more apparent that the boy
had lost his life in the river. Cntil near
ly midnight Mr. Gray and a iiumljir of
men dragged the millpond with grap
pling irons. Boats were procured from
the icehouse of J. M. Ward Son. At
3 o'clock this morning the police and
helpers, together with street department!
laborers, again took up the search. They
were joined an hour later by Mr. Gray.
Dvnamite was used continually through
out the early morning in the hope that
the concussions would bring the body tm
the surface. Stevens branch is runiiin
high nt the present time and it was not
thought advisable to let the water out of
the dam. All through the early fore
noon people gathered- along the bank,
some of them spelling the boatmen in
their t rips up and dow n the pond. Pike
polos were lowered from the bridge and
the grappling irons were dragged over
every part of the pond. It was not un
til a hooked pole in the hands of Mr.
Martin caught bold of the boy's coat
that the body was located. It is thought
that the under current mii-t have earned
the lsdy toward the bank.
Besides his parents, the Gray boy is
survived by two brothers. John and Har
old Gray, the latter aged four, and Eliz
abeth, his sister, who is 2 years old.
Maurice would have lieen eight years old
hail he lived until May S. He was born
in Northfield and latterly had been a.
student in the second grade at the Brook
street school. Kuneral arrangement
have not la-en made.
AN ART EXHIBIT
Is To Be Held at Howland Hall Thurs
J day, April 20.
Kcmemlier the art exhibit at the How
land hall on Thursday. April Jn. The ex
hibit will le open from 2 to 5 in thv
afternoon and trom 7 to ! in the even
ing. It is hoed thiit many will avail
themselves of the privilege of attending,
as it is entirely tree and open to all.
Students will find it interesting and in
structive. Anyone from the surround
ing towns who nuiy ls in the city an I
care M attend will be welcome-!.
Will those who have signified their
diingne-s to loan art work kindly lean
them at the ball tss'ore 10 o'clock in t!
f orcnooii ?
Lawrence Disturbed.
mmendajion leaving the nxt step in 1 unaccounted tor, and th number of in-'awarded t rn rr..
jured at 33.
niitsien nied this evening.
Lawremi". Ma-s.. April H. Although
the genrjl i'lcre-ise of Jo j-er cent in thai
weit intoe'Vt rcic e cid." v. t h
indiitri.il - t iHti'-n is in very nn-ettlel
n.l.t ."ii. The I s'io ci!i--.-nv ti.jil i
protHSy 1 i'e. el !y ;iUn;t l.-0 men-iers
being at work e-t.-rd.iy. There are I
weavers on strike an I tie l-s,trlxer
voted yesterday t rc-e.i n out lint 1 tb
i,!-T:.ir, ; of the veavtrs fr i i'e rea
. ,,f pi 1 r , r t a ! . - :il on M y
'i trante-l. ('.; th S.'"i f-il-n ;t
r rolls are i I- jii-( ef 1 h-af
tfcil.'.s.
1
