DAILY EDITION
TCWU VI., No. J 80.
GRANTS PASS, JOSEPHINE COUNTY, OREGON. ' TUESDAY, APRIL 18,11.
WHOLE NUMBER 1721.
No Other Town in the World the Size of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
So
Announcement Hade by Gen
eral Funston That 2,300
Additional American Sol
diers Are to Cross Border
San Antonio, April 18. Goneral
Funston'a headquarters announced
today that 2,300 addlttooal troopa
would b ent Into Mexico.
El Paso, April 18. Hunting for
VlUa la a aeoondary matter with the,
military authorities today. Protec
tion of the American expedition in
Mexico Is the main thing.
General Pershing is understood toador Gerard in Berlin has also re
have reported tbua to General Fun-( ported new detatls of the feeling
stem. The question as to whether manifested by the German preas.
tbe body exhumed by Carranzlstaa la There was a strong belief, however,
really that of Villa la considered lm- that the note would be on Its way
portant, but the safety of the expe-j within 14 hours.
, dltlon, following the Parral clash J Bernstorff's visit to Lansing can
and the Mexican request that It with-( not alter the situation with regard to
draw, is uppermost in the minds of the submarine Issue, it was officially
jinny men on the border. stated before the conference.
Pershing has returned to Naml-j
iuipa, midway along the communlca-
tion lines, where be wlll be able to MP f PIEI IVflQ .
wstch the situation more closely ana
Twtter direct the army. o aiuoti--cans
are believed to be south of Santa
. . Crus, . V
, If Villa is alive and has gone Into
Durango as reported, tbe pursuit Is
apparently halted. If the exhumedj WashingtonApril 18. -Frederick
corpse Is not that of Villa, neither Dudley, chief of the railroad division
American nor Mexican authorities of the general land office, testifying
"have any adequate Idea of his where In the government's suit to recover
about, they admitted. 1 valuable oil territory In southern Cal-
Mexlcans, the only persons who lfornla from the railroads, declared
professed to have direct knowledge today that tbe Southern Pacific
that Villa's body had been diifg up, could easily have deceived the gov
clalmed that the telegraph wires ernment with regard to the value of
were down and that this prevented tbe land, because congress accepted
the receipt of further Information. Ite affidavits concerning the property
While their failure rapidly to pro- and did not provide auffictent in
duce the body for American Identi- spec-tors properly to verify them.
Hcstlon Increased the skepticism t This evidence was given at the ses
tiere, the delay may possibly be due slon here of the United States dis
to natural causes, like slow trans 'trict court for the Southern district
TPortatton. It waa pointed out that of California, which convened in
the Carranzlstas may be honest In Washington 'because many wltnesiea
their claim that they have found were here. '"'''. ? ;;.'
"Villa's remains, and yet may them- Lieutenant-Commander Richard
selves be hoaxed or laboring under gem continued his testimony, support
's mliapprehenslon. ' lag the contention that the value of
In connection with the precautions oil as a fuel was known prior to the
to Insure safety of the American ex- congressional granta which gave ra.lt
pedltlon, army men pointed out that roads title to the public landa. The
Intervention advocates were anxloua Southern Pacific now is using mil
to prevent a withdrawal and that lions of barrels of oil monthly for
they had circulated exaggerated and fuel. ' t
.ilarmlng reports of the destruction Hoke Smtth, senator rrom Georgia,
of American property In Chihuahua tod former secretary of the Interior,
sjtate). . ' . t I will be witness tomorrow.
Consul Garcia said that he had no -. "
fresh hews from Cuslhulrachlc with MRS. HULAND MAY NOT
regard to the body reported to be, RK OREGON CANDIDATE
that of Villa. He saw no reason, 1e , .
ald, for changing the belief that the; Portland, April 18. Can a woman
' corpse waa really Villa's. Garcia legally run for office in Oregon ' if
; asserted that Carlos Carranza found her husband Is a registered voter in
the remains from 80 to 50 miles, from Washington state? This question is
the railroad, In a region reached only pussllng county officials today. "Mrs.
by rough trails. The removal was o. u Buland is a candidate tor
most difficult delegate-ai-large, to the republican
Perhaps, he said, it might be only national convention frpm Oregon.
, necessary to bring In the head. .A She lives with her 'husband at 606
chart of Villa's teeth,, taken at El Maple street. But Mr. Buland Is
Paso, may prove Important in Identi 'president of a bank and owner of a
I lying the body. ; j shingle-mill at Castle 'Rock, WaBh.,
; However, army chiefs in ErPaso; and, spends only his Week-ends at
privately exprossod the opinion that
mo body bolow Juarez ever hoard of
i the discovery of Villa's body.
Enrlqnez reported thero was con
; Tlrmatlon at Chihuahua City of the
titory that Colonol Carlos Carranza
and others had loft for Son Francisco
; ile Borja to locate and recover the
vornsp. .''
While latest advices were slmlllar
to Sunday's message with regard to
l the body, General Gavlra stated that
I the word from Enrlques strengthened
"his belief that Villa's career was end-
efl and the expedition , practically
OISPATCH OF THE
LATEST I10TE TO
KAISER DELAYED
Washington, April 18. It appear
ed poaalblo today that dispatch of tba
lateat and perhaps the last Amer
loan note to Germany with regard to
submarine activities would be delay
ed, following reading of the com
raunlcatlon at today's cabinet meet
ing. Indications pointed to a bitch,
probably in a minor matter, in the
plans to send tbe note to Berlin im
mediately. There ere still some "un
determined elements" in tbe submar
ine cane, a high official said.
No light on them was to be obtain
ed. Whether the dehty was due to
the evidence on hand, or the language
in the note was in doubt. It is pos
sible that final wording of the docu
ment awaited tbe outcome ' of the
Lanalng-Bernstorff conference this
afternoon.
It was reported that Bernstorff had
received freah Instructions. Ambas
UlpULL Ufllll llflU
EASY TO DECEIVE
home. He is
Castle Rock.
a registered voter at
THAT VILLA !S DEAD
El Paso, April ,18. General Gavlra
In Juares announced today he had
received confirmation of , Francisco
Villa's reported death from Governor
Esr'.ruo- bf Chihuahua state."
GAVIRA
CONTENDS
i :
COBnOiM
German Situation Becomes Acute, and tie ffief Executive
Will Appear at Joint Session to Present Action Pro
posed in the Controversy
ment. Diplomatic Break
Washington, April 18. -President
Wilson will appear tomorrow before
a Joint session of the house and sen
ate 'to present the action which be
proposes to take in the submarine
controversy with Germany.
This wag the climax this afternoon
of day of uncertainties regarding
the president's course in the submar
ine controversy.
Joseph Tumulty, secretary to the
president, went to the capltol this af
ternoon and conferred with Congress
man Rltchln, majority leader in the
house, and Senator Stone, chairman
of tbe senate foreign relatione com
mittee. Later Stone and Kitchln conferred
with 8peaker Clark and asked for a
joint session at 1 o'clock.
Kdtchtn later Introduced " in the
house a resolution providing for such
joint session, and It waa passed. ,
Following the psssage of this re
solution reports were rife that Pre
sident Wilson's action might nean
a severance: of diplomatic relations
with Germany, i 1 ; .., , (
Later reports that the joint session
had been called for discussion of the
German situation were officially con
firmed.
Berlin, April 18. Members of the
relchstag who recently led the fight
GO.ODD GERMAN SOLDIERS IN
EAST OF THE
Paris, April IS. German soldiers
from five divisions, aggregating 100,
QP0 men, participated in yesterday's
attack east of tbe Meuse, It waa offi
cially announced today. .'
The attackers were partially oust
ed by French counter-assaults from
a first line trench which they pene
trated in the Chauffour forest, north
west of Douaumont
The Germans (attacked violently1
on a tagged front extending from French positions north and north
the Meuse southeasterly to the iMS of Verdun have (been captured
Douaumont-Ornes road. They pre-!
pared tor the assault with 12 hours
of gunfire that sounded like a con
tinuous rolling of drums.
Tbe first onslaught waa delivered
in ft ravine southeast of "Pepper"
heights. Time and. again the gray
Gorman waves swept forward, only
to pile up in bloody confusion
against the French defenses. Shrap
nel from French guns filled the air,
sweeping the Teuton ranks, while
a rain of bullets from hidden machine
guna pattered over every toot of the
rugged defile until the wooded slopes!
of the ravine were carpeted with!
corpsos and bodies choked the gorge
ibelow.
' Defeated in the ravine, the Ger- ( today ready for ft new start in the
mans extended the .fighting to their hunt for Francisco Villa. The Parral
flanks. A division marching south- incident and the report that Villa's
ward along the west bank of the body had boeu found temporarily de
Mouse, from Talou heights oame un- layed the chase. '
dor a severe fire and retreated. " ; General Cell, in El Paso, today re-
The heaviest blpw was delivered , ported to General Funston 'his belief
by the Hermans on the eastern wing, j that the entire story of Villa's body
Two divisions were hnrlod Into hoving boen found was manufactured
Chauffour nud A'blaln woods, . at-, tn Juarez. ' In dispatches from Chl
tomptlng to reach the Douaumont- j huahua City, American Consul Letch
Bras road. Tho first attacks -were. er declared that advices from Cnsl
boaten by concentrated fire before It hulrachlq failed to mention the flnd
reachod the French rifle pits. The Ing of a body,
second and heavlor charge carried Earlier advices said that scattered
several advanced positions and cap- American detachments were gather
tured a French redoubt in an exposed, lng at Satevo for a resumption of the
salient northwest of Douaumont. ihunt on a scale conforming to the
French coupler-moves, said the communications.
With the Kaiser's Govern
Being Forecasted
for a more rigorous submarine cam
paign are preparing to take hand
in the German-American crisis. It was
learned today. They will strongly
oppose further concessions to the
United States, and if necessary will
break the truce arranged recently
and openly criticise the German gov
ernment if it Intends to make its
policies conform to President Wil
son's wishes.
The situation has suddenly grown
tense with the receipt of reports that
President Wilson has framed ft new
note without waiting for the exhibits
which Foreign Minister' von Jagow
forwarded to him In connection with
tne Sussex disaster. This was ac
cepted fts partially corroborating; re
ports that the new note is more dras
tic than any previous American com
munication. Though the kaiser supports Im
perial Chancellor von Bethmann
Hollweg's desire to maintain friend
ship v between Germany , and tne
United States, officials are under tbe
pressure of publio opinion, which is
again growing more hostile toward
the United States. The success of
tbe new submarine campaign in
augurated in March la a strong argu
ment in the popular mind against
making concessions,
T.1EUSE YESTERDAY
communique, were successful against
the advanced positions which the
kaiser's men took yesterday. .
Both sides' Josses were very heavy
in the hand-to-hand bayonet fight
which took place In the shell-wrecked
woods during the battle.
CERMAXS CAPTURE 1700
FRENCH PRISONERS
Berlin, April 18. Important
by the Germans, it waa officially an-
nounced today. Worka south of Hau
dremont farm and 700 yards of
heights northwest of Thlaumont farm
near Douaumont were taken. The
Germans seized 1.700 French .pris
oners, READY TO RESUME
FOR VILLA
, - -
..,., ,
San Antonio, April 18. The Amer-
lean expedition Is toeing the scratch
I
HUNT
nEr.
New York, April 18. Wolf von
Igle, secretary to Captain Franz von
Papen, former attache of the Ger
man embassy In Washington, was
arrested today In a Wall street office
after a lively fight with secret ser
vice agents. He Is charged with im
plication in a plot to dynamite the
Welland canal in Canada. Von Papen
was also Indicted, but jbi he return
ed to Germany after being declared
persona non grata to tbe administra
tion. Is beyond the jurisdiction of
the American courts.
When four agents of tbe Justice
department reached the office where
voa Igla had been located, the tor-
prised him on the point of taking
flight He put op a strong fight, but
was overpowered.
WashingtonApril 18. Wolf Ton
Igle, arrested in New York today on
bomb plot charges, Is alleged to have
been handling the affairs of Captain
Frana Ton ' Papen, former German
embassy attache, who was recalled
by Berlin at the state department's
request Von Igle was von Papon's
secretary. The government will claim
he handled tbe loose ends of plots
to blow np merchant ships flying the
flags of the entente allies and that he
handled von Papen's correspondence
with regard to the plot to dynamite
the Welland canal in Canada.
.' It will be asserted he was go
between in every important slot in
which the German official figured.
The - state department consented to
von Papen's indictment It will re
main inoperative, but will permit the
government more freedom In prose
cuting cases in which von Papen is
alleged to have participated.
WAGE INCREASES FOB
IRON AND STEEL WORKERS
New York, April 18. Wage In
creases amounting to about 10 ner
cent to employes of Its iron and steel
companies, effective May 1, were an
nounced today by the United States
Steel corporation.
E NATIVE
SCOUTS III MEXICO
Columbus, N. M., April 18. Gen
eral Pershing's native scouts often
lead American troops Into difficult
and inaccessible regions where they
might easily be ambushed, and re
turning motor column, guards said
toaay- mat tfcls was the reason Per
shing dispensed with Mexican guides
and called for more American scouts
acquainted with southern Chihuahua.
Pershing's hurried return to Ills
wireless base was regarded as o
indication of tenseness In . Mexico.
Following the Parral dash. Pennine
is ibelieved to have regarded quick
communication as imperative and to
have recommended a halt in the
southward march until safety of all
advanced detachments is assured.
TURKS REGAIN SOME
OF LOST GROUND
London, April 18. General Lake
reported today that the British lines
had been forced back from 500 to
800 yards in fierce fiKhtins: with
Turks on the. south bank of the
Tigris. :, , ... :;
A few days ago the British attack
ed the Turks at that ipoint and gain
ed three miles, at some places. The
sultan's men, said Lake, made heavy
counter-attacks, recapturing some of
the conquered territory.
General Lake's men are trytns; to
cut through the Moslem lines and
relieve the besieged British aarrison
In Kut-el-Amara.
Ml
-A L L I E S IV1 U S T
H1T0
11 II
Davidllsyd-GecrgeTeBs Erit
id. Caiinst Success fcr
E&ztsk TLretod fcy
a Sicrfcge cf Scliicrs
'London, April 18. David Lloyd
George, minister of jnunlUosft, toll
the British cabinet today that the
allies' chances of winning the war
were threatened by a. shortage of
men.
He pointed out that large forces
of German reserves were massed op
posite the British lines, ftod urged
the government to summon Immedi
ately to the colors all single and mar
ried men who can be spared. ;
The possible crisis was delayed at
least until tomorrow, when Premier
Asqulth will make his expected re-'
cruitlng statement postponed from
today. In the meantime he la trying
to conciliate members of the cabinet
who are determined upon , general
conscription.
PARLOITfJ
BE
London,' April 18. Dissolution of
parliament and a general election on
the conscription Issue were predicted
in the house of commons' lobbies this
evening. , ;;-.;.f , ; ;
It . was reported that Premier Aa-
quith had failed to conciliate adher
ents of the immediate general con
scription plan. Experts declared the
election would result In a conserva
tive cabinet headed by Bonar-Law,
with the liberals forming the opposi
tion party,"
ORDER FOR 150 CARS .
OF ROSEBURG BROCCOLI
Roseburg, April 18. John Nix and
Company of Chicago have ordered
ISO carloads of broccoli ; (winter
cauliflower) from growers in the vi
cinity of Roseburg, it was announced
today. Forty-nine carloads were
shipped last year. '
III
E
San Francisco, April 18. Federal
agents are investigating a report to
day that Chinese' parents hare paid
from f 500 to $1,000 to hare their
children smuggled into the United
States so they could hare the advan
tages of being brought up here.
According to the information thus.
far obtainable, the system has 'been
tor a Chinese laborer In this country '
to get federal permission to visit his
home, representing himself to be a
Chinese merchant, and therefore en
titled to travel lack and forth. And
when he returns he brings with him
number of children, which, he
claims, are bis own offspring, and so
have a right to enter America. These
alleged facts came to light during
the probe of the case' of Fong San
Wing, whom, It Is charged, tried to
get permission to visit home, repre
senting himself as a merchant when'
in realty he was a laborer. Fong Is
under arrest on a conspiracy charge.
W. H. Cass and H. J. Barling were
Indicted today on a charge of being
professional witnesses for Chinamen
brought before , the . Immigration
authorities.
DISSOLVED
10
IIIESE
FRAUD
CHAR
.. '. .'.'ki'.-i-V,V''''.1
