First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec. 1 and 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI CO., HAWAII. SEPTEMBER 8, 1916.
NUMBER 29.
SLAYER OF G. 0. COOPER
CONFESSES HIS GUILT
John Ginza, Japanese Arrested At Keanae, Makes
Full Confession Today To Officers Motive 5
Year Old Grudge Planned Murder Month
Ago But Lost Nerve Steals Horse To Return
And Commit Crime
HAN A, September 8.-2:30 p. m.
Shortly after noon today John Ginza,
the- Japanese arrested on suspicion of
killing George O. Cooper, made full
confession to the crime to Sheriff
Crowell and County Attorney Bevlns.
Ginza states that he came back
from Hawaii for the sole purpose of
killing Cooper, becauee of a dispute
over some money matter some five
years ago when he was a laborer on
the plantation.. He also confessed to
stealing a horse from Haiku to make
his trip of vengeance.
Ginza further admitted that he
came to Hana a month ago to kill
Cooper, but at that time his nerve
failed him and he left without ac
complishing his purpose.
RENEWED OLD QUARREL
The Japanese was mounted at the
time he met Cooper and took the first
shot at him. Cooper fell from his
horse, and Ginza was also thrown,
and the two struggled for the revol
ver. Finally the Japanese broke a
way and fired the other shots which
ended the affray.
Sheriff Crowell will conduct an In
quest tomorrow morning and will
leave for home with his prisoner to
morrow afternoon.
THINK JAPANESE MAY CONFESS
A telephone message received late
this afternoon from Sheriff Clem
Crowell at Hana indicates that he
and County Attorney Bevlns are con
fident that they have the murderer
of George Cooper under arrest. Both
believe that they will have the myst
ery cleared up before dark tonight.
"We will have evidence, enough to
convict in less than two and a half
hours," was the statement made by
the officer.
Cowardly shot down from behind
with two bullets which penetrated
and passed through his body, George
O. Cooper of Hana was killed early
last Tuesday morning a few hundred
feet from the Plantation; office. One
other hullet caused a slight flesh
wound just under his left armpit.
One of the first two bullets passed
through his body at the waist line
and the other just above. Either of
the two wounds would have proved
fatal.
The identity of the assassin has
'not been definitely established, al
though the police have one suspicious
character under arrest against whom
there is much circumstantial evi
dence circumstantial evidence which
is corroborated in almost every res
pect, except as to proof of the motive
for the murder.
Shot From Horse
Cooper ' left his home Tuesday
morning, as was his custom between
4 and 5 o'clock. His body was found
a few minutes before 6 o'clock by his
'brother-in-law, Antone Serreno, the
"board of health Inspector at Hana.
jCooper was dead when found, but
'.there were indications that he had
lived for a short time after being
wounded.
'-. When Cooper left his home, about
one mile from the Plantation office, he
was mounted on a horse which was
found returning to the Cooper home
a- few moments before the body was
discovered. . Cooper had followed a
plantation railway track from his
home on bis way to the office. This
runs through growing cane for the
most part. The cane was peculiarly
dense where the crime was commit
td and would have formed a secure
hlriinir. nlflf for the murderer. The
condition of the earth where the
body was found showed that Cooper
had fallen from his saddle after be
ing shot
' Immediately after the Hana police
learned or the crime omcrs in adjoin
ing villages were notified and also the
snenn s aeparuneui iu vuiiuku. ai
ders were at once Issued by Sheriff
Crowell to permit no one whose iden
tity was not postively known to
leave the district and to form a care
ful patrol. Due to the topography of
the country about Hana where there
are but two roads leading from the
district, excepting egress by the sea,
it was comparatively easy to estab
lish a closely formed guard at all
Stranger Is Suspected
The Hana police at once fixed sus
picion upon a man thought to be a
stranger who had been seen early in
the morning riding out of the dis
trict toward Nahiku on a bay horse.
The rider was described ub having
bad his hat pulled well down over
his face, as if to avoid recognition.
Ten minutes before Cooper's body
was found, Serreno had noticed a
man he took for a stranger riding
furiously away from the direction in
which the body was afterwards locat
ed. A police officer at the plantation
camp on the Nahiku side of Hana
also reported as having seen this
supposed to be stranger.
Through this clue and the notifica
tion of the officers of the district,
John Ginza was arrested for invest
igation at Keanae at 10 o'clock that
morning. The prisoner was Immedi
ately taken back to Hana to be ex
amined by Sheriff Crowell and Coun
ty Attorney Bevlns who had left for
that side of the island by a sampan
as soon as word of the murder reach
ed Walluku.
Ginza Was Armed
Ginza is a Japanese who was rais
ed by a Hawaiian family by the
name of Nahipoa, now residents of
the Hana district. During Ginza's
youth, they at one time resided in
Walluku. Ginza reached the Hana
district by horseback on the day be
fore the murder and is said to have
spent the night with his foster par
ents. When arrested Ginza was armed
with a U. S. hammerless 38-calibre
revolver, which the Hana physician,
Dr. Litchenfels says is the size of the
weapon that caused Cooper's death.
Further suspicion is directed to
ward Ginza as he was mounted on a
bay horse, the same color of the
animal, which the man, thought to
be a stranger, was seen riding,away
from near the scene of the murder.
Ginza stole the horse in Hamakua
poko early this week and then left
for Hana.
Has Jail Record
Ginza was In Hana for a few days
a month ago and left there to go to
Hilo, where he has lived at different
times. It had heen fi
since he had been in the Hana dis
trict before that, it is claimed. Be
fore coining on his visit, preceeding
the Hilo trip, he had just been re
leased from jail In Honolulu where
ne naa oeen, serving a sentence for
vagrancy, according to the police.
The police state that he has served
other sentences for attempted burgl
ary and for receivinir stonlen ennils.
While Ginza is reported to be
maintaining his innocence of the Ha
na crime, the only argument put
forth in his favor is that he could
not have had time to have ridden
to Keanae from Hana after the crime
was committed before he was arrest
ed. This argument n mnrin hv thnao
who know the lone time it t
ride over the pall trail from Nahiku
to tne little village.
Motive May Have Been Old Grudge
As to the motive which caused the
crime the police are puzzled. Cooper
had tbu.uu in currency in his pockets.
a waluable watc.h and a number of
endorsed checks, some of which were
his property and some which were
the property of the plantation. All
his valuables were found in his
pockets.
This inclines the police to believe
that the real motive of the murder
was some fancied grudge against
Cooper. Another supposition is that
the motive was robbery, but that the
murder was frightened away before
he was able to accomplish his purp
ose. The theory is advanced that
the murder attempted to hold-up
Cooper and when commanded to
deliver over his money the murdered
man resisted or started to ride away
and that he was then shot from his
saddle.
Sheriff Crowell and County At
torney Bevins intend to remain In
the Hana district until they have
positively proved Ginza's guilt, or
until the murderer, if it is not he,
is discovered, according to telephone
statements they have made to the
press in Walluku.
All Maul Shocked
It is not the intention of the offic
ers to hold the inquest or the preli
minary hearing of Ginza until they
have secured more evidence to cor
roborrate the string of circumstantial
evidence against him. They are
working now intent on establishing
the motive for the murder.
News of the Hana tragedy cast a
gloom of sorrow all over Maui, as
Cooper was widely known and just
as widely liked, due to his sterling
honesty and genial nature. In Hana,
where he has lived for so many years,
(continued on page 8)
Dr. Raymond Enters
Race For Senate
Fifteen Republicans And Four Demo
crats Seek Election As Representa
tives; T. B. Lyons And George
Cook Aspirants For Senatorial Togo
Dr. J. H. Raymond's entrance Into
the race for a seat in the Territorial
senate, from Maul, on the demorratlc
ticket, was the sensational feature in
locaf: politics this week. The Doctor
did not decide to get Into the lists a
gain until a few days before the date
for closing of the nominations. His
papers were filed on Tuesday .
Another candidate of the Bourbons
from Maui for the other seat to be
filled In the upper house is T. B. Ly
ons. He also got his nomination pa
pers in on Tuesday.
Democrats Also For House
The Maui democrats have also a
number of candidates now in the race
for the House of Representatives.
Two of these are from Lahaina Moke
K.'tuhaahaa and J. K. Hihlo. The lat
ter wns a member of the legislature
in 1310, and he was one of the first
board of supervisors, as a Home Rul
er, on what came to be known as the
"10-day county government". the
first county act being declared un-
From Makawao, Jerry Burns is al
so again in the race for the demo
crats, for a seat in the lower house;
and as previously announced, . M. C.
Picanco is out for like honors.
The full list of Maul candidates
for the house and senate are as foll
ows:
For senate, Republican ticket: H,
A. Baldwin and George Cooke; Denv
ocratic ticket, T. B. Lyons and J. D
Raymond.
For representative, Republican
ticket; L. Makla, J. Kaupu, C. Kaanol,
C. Mahekau, John Brown, Jr., J. Kao
nohi, L. B. Kaumeheiwa, Enos Vin
cent, W. R. Crockett, Sam Kuula,
Nawahine, Tavares, L. Joseph, M. G.
Paschoal and E. Walahole; Demo
cratic ticket, Pieweo, Moke Kauhaa-
haa, Jerry Burns, and J. H. Hihlo.
Filipino Woman
Attempts Suicide
.Despondent because her white af
finity, a soldier is now detailed on duty
at the Mexican border and because
the police had warned her to discon
tinue her relations with a Puunene
Camp 5 admirer, Mrs. Alehardro, a
Honolulu Filipino woman attempted
to hang herself from a tree early last
Tuesday morning. The woman was
discovered in time to prevent her from
taking her life. She was arrested on
a statutory charge shortly afterward
and fined twenty dollars in the police
court. Her paramour wns given a
sentence of six months imprisonment.
The woman was arrested several
weeks ago, but after promising to re
turn to Honolulu she was released.
She was not seen again by the police
until she attempted to commit suicide.
The woman is the mother of a five
year old boy, the son of the soldier.
The police are in a quandary as t
whatto do with the child while the
woman is serving her sentence.
Maui Race Horses
Break Track Records
Francis B., H. A. Baldwin's speedy
racing anamal, broke a twenty year
record for Hawaiian bred horses over
a mile and a half course in the Labor
Day races at Kapiolani Park in Hono
lulu. The time by Francis B. was
2:43 2-5, beating 2:46 2 5, the time
held by Duke during all those years.
A Honolulu report of the race states
that with Copra scratched, Francis B.
and Koichi were the only entries. The
Maui Hawaiian-bred, with Benny Rol
lins up, moved aiyay from the flag at
a great rate and took the pole at the
start. At the first fur'ong Francis B.
had two lengths of daylight behind
her. Mr. Baldwin's entry moved up
steally until at the grandstand he was
seven lengths to the good.
By winning this race Mr. Baldwin
received the Duke of Norfolk cup, of
fered by Colonel Spalding to the horse
which should beat the 2:46 2-5 time
set by Duke for Hawaiian-breds twen
ty years ago. '
Copra was another Maul record
breaker. Dr. Fitzgerald's bay fflly cop
ped the Btakes handily In the Inter
Island cup and set a mark for Hawaii-an-breds
of 0:47 4-5 over the four
furlongs distance.
While F. H. Locey's entry, Denervo,
failed to win in the free-for-all trot
ting and pacing race, the animal
brought the crowd in the grandstands
to its feet In the first two heats by his
burst of speed on the home stretch.
In both the first and second heat
Denervo challenged at the home
stretch, but managed to win only in
the second.
If everybody expected to tee a BlQ
MAUI COUNTY FAIR and then left
it to others to do the work, there
would be no fair. Do your part.
New Inter-Island
Rates Are Opposed
Chamber Airs Grievances Against Com
pany Speakers Are Caustic In
Making Complaints Non-Delivery
Of Freight To Be Investigated
Led by Harold Rice, a half dozen
speakers paid caustic attention to the
Inter-Island Steam Navigation Com.
pany at -the -Commerce -supper -'.ast
Tuesday night. The speakers' compl
aints w re numerous. They Included
the proposed increase in freight rates,
the non-delivery of freight from the
Tuesday Claudine and the failure of
that company to use the Kehei wharf.
Rice opened the floodgates holding
back the wrath of the Maui people
against the company by saying that he
thought the chamber qught to care
fully consider the new freight rates
which the company expect to put in
to effect In a few weeks. He frank'y
admitted that his personal interest is
in the cattle freight tariff, although he
declared that he believed that some of
the other proposed rates would be
found on investigation to be just as
unwarranted. He ask for an expres
sion of opinion from the chamber.
David Fleming was another speaker
regard'ng the cattle freight rates. He
hotly declared that the men of east
central Maul were not getting a square
deal from the company. Both speak
ers called attention to the fact that
the present rate to Honolulu is $3.50
per head and that the company In
tends to increase the rate to $5.00.
They srxid the rate from Kawaihao
would be put one dollar more, al
though at this port the cattle have to
be taken out to the ships by smail
boats, where in Kahului they are load
ed from the wharf.
Joaquin Garcia made a motion that
the question of the increase of freight
rates bo taken up by a committee of
five with the public utilities commis
sion. After some further discussion,
during which the non-delivery of
freight from the Tuesday Claudine
was brought up, the mot'on passed.
Later, though, the question was a
gain brought before the chamber by
Rice who insisted that the question be
not left entirely to the committee,
which he said would no have time to
act before the public utility commis
sion held its next meeting. This view
'was taken by the majority of those
present and a motion was passed
which declared it to be the sense of
the chamber that it was opposed to
any increase in the freight tariffs.
Rev. J. Charles Villlers then said
that he thought similar action should
be taken regarding the carrying by of
freight Intended for Central Maul by
the Claudine on Tuesday. II. B. Pen
hallow had previously asked the
chamber to consider the subject. This
cause of complaint called forth biting
statements from a number of other
speakers, among whom were William
Walsh.
After more discussion it was decided
to appoint a committee of three to see
if the mail schedule could not be alter
ed so the. Claudine can remain long
enough In Kahului on Tuesday to un
load its freight. This same committee
will alo attempt to get the Inter
Island to use the Kehei wharf.
Delegates Named
For Convention
Twelve men were named as deleg
ates to the Fifth Civic Convention at
the supper meeting of the Maul
Chamber of Commerce. A number of
others may later be given credentials
as delegates if they notify the secret
ary of the chamber that they wish to
attend the convention.
In the selection of the delegates,
President Wadsworth did not aBk for
formal nominations but suggested in
stead that all those who intended to
go to Hilo should indicate their inten
tio by ho'ding up a hand. This was
done and in a few minutes a motion
was passed requiring that credentials
be given all those who had signified
their intention of attending theconven
tion. The delegates named are as follows:
R. A. Wadsworth, W. Leslie West,
F'rank V. Lufkin, Hugh Howell, L. von
Tempsky, Thomas Dunn, W. F. Croc
kett, A. F. Costa, James Fobs, George
Dunn, W. F. Pogue and D. H. Case.
West wanted to know after the elec
tion of the delegates If they were to
go in some kind of uniform, or as "a
nondescript crew." ' Reference was
made to former delegations, not wholly
complimentary, and it was urged that
something distinctive be decided upon.
This met with approval and it Is the
intention of the delegates to decide
upon some novel method of disting
uishing them from the other delega
tions.
R. Franklin of Chico, California, who
has been engaged to teach in the Ma
kawao school, arrived on Maui in the
Mauna Kea laBt Wednesday night. He
was accompanied by Fred. Murphy of
Sacramento, who has been assigned to
the Kahakapalui school. Both the
young men are graduates of the Chico
Normal.
OVER 100 CANDIDATES IN
PRIMARY ELECTION RACE
No Democratic Nominations From Hawaii Kuhio
Has Opposition Retaliation Clause In .Revenue
Bill Still Stands Abandonment Of Medical
Inspection Of Ships Starts Argument Hughes
Attacks 8-Hour Law
HONOLULU, Sept. 8 One hundred and thirteen candidates fill
ed nomination papers for the primaries.
Bourbons of Hawaii fail to get into race
McCandless is sure of nomination as candidate for delegate . Ku-
J hio and Louisson of Hawaii both
et.
. Crew of Kunalu Boat Club may compete in the boat races at the
Regatta. The girls' club is expected to make good showing.
Local quarantine discussion was taken up by the Rotary Club. Dr.
Hobdy and Dr. Pratt argued for retention of the quarantine. L. A.
Thurston took opposite side of the contention. Ilobdy believes pres
ent system will keep malaria at bay. Thurston argued that the exami
nation causes unnecessary delay to travelers without adequate compen
sation. Two Japanese have escaped from quarantine.
PARIS, Sept. 8 Rumanian garrison has surrendered. Twenty
thousand prisoners were taken when Germans and Bulgarians captured
the garrison as it attempted to escape across river .
Slavs report gains in Galicia, which are admitted by both Berlin
and Vienna.
French and British continue their advance on Somme.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 Retaliation clause in revenue bill still
stands. Representatives pass measure by viva voce vote .after consid
ering the reports of the conference committees of both houses.
The lower house will quit labor at 10 o'clock today.
New bill for the protection of American commerce and industries
prevents the dumping of goods on this market by Europeans.
COPENHAGEN Sept, 8 Solons of Denmark agree on policy.
Will appoint committee to investigate the sale pf the Danish West In
dies. BATTLE HARBOR, Sept. 8 Arctic ship reaches port safely.
The revenue cutter Cluett with members of McMillan expedition safely
in port.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 Germans are ready for trade waf and
are gathering resources for big struggle.
SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 8 Prof. Jordan has peace plans. He
announces president will not have definite policy until after election.
HAMPTON, Sept. 8 Hughes attacks eight-hour law. Says it
is a iother step towards abdication of government.
THE HAGUE, Sept. 8 A large aeroplane bombarded Brussels.
It is believed to have been British.
PETROGRAD, Sept. 7 Bearing full weight of the German- Bul
garian attack launched along the new frontier of Rumania, the Ruman
ian city of Turtukui has fallen. After fierce fight the city was evacu
ated by Rumanian garrison and many citizens left also.
BUCHAREST, Sept. 7 With large reinforcements rushed from
Balkan camps, German and Bulgarian army beleaguring Tuituikui are
continuing attack on the garrison. Rumanian troops are making
almost ceaseless attacks.
BERLIN .Sept. 7 More than 20,000 Rumanian prisoners taken
today when Bulgarians and Germans captured Turtukui. Large mili
tary stores also captured. Town fell in face of fierce attack, which
carried storming parties over the fences .
PETROGRAD, Sept. 7 Russians are surrounding strong fort
ress town on Halicz, 60 miles southwest of Lemburg. They bombard
ed city until in flames.
PARIS, Sept. 7 French troops attacked bridge on German line in
front of Verdun today and by following up wtith infantry charges they
captured German front line trenches over a front a mile long. They
took 250 prisoners and drove defenders back to the second line defense.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 Guards on the border are to remain
there according to announcement made here today.
President signs new shipping bill. ;
'CHICAGO, Sept. 7 Henry Ford has filed a damage suit for one
million dollars against the Chicago Tribune. Tribune excited his ang
er by calling him an anarchist.
NEW YORK, Sept. 7 Car strike on in New York ,rut not many
men quit work. Traction line able to keep all but one division moving.
HONOLULU, Sept. 7 Secretary Roberts will keep open until
midnight to take mail.
William Achi and Sam Kellinoi entered today. Rush of candi
dates is expected to be on until late this evening.
Invitation to Governor Pinkham is now repudiated. Puahi fact
ion terms the men who attempted to harmonize as self-appointed. They
declare the party will not support Fern as candidate. McCandless
has accepted.
HONOLULU, September 7 Ex-Governor Frear, as guest at
luncheon of Sydney Club, told of the great rivalry of Pacific countries,
which struggle may be friendly or most bitter in history. He told
Australians that we are trying to build real American territory in Ha
waii. The baby elephant arrived in town yesterday and was placed at
Kapiolani park.
Rumoured sale of the island of Lanai has blown up. Shingle and
Loietzcn have made another trip of inspection to the island.
PARIS, September7 General Foch reports capturing outskirts
of Chaulnes and cutting of railroad leading to Roye. .
WASHINGTON, September 7 Revenue bill blocks plan of
Congress for adjournment. Conference committee deadlock on stamp
taxes and issue hangs fire, spoiling preparartions for the adjournment.
Solons now hope to be able to leave Saturday.
Owens' corrupt practice act stirs wrath of Senators and starts heat
ed argument. ' J,T.23JLfl
LONDON, September 7 Berlin admits big Slav victory on the
Galicia front.
NEW LONDON," September 7 Big international conference
opens. Joint sea commission begins session with general discussion
regarding conditions.
after nomination on Republican tick
