I-:
.1
r
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Showers, followed by fair and cooler
to-day; to-morrow fair.
Highest temperature yesterday, 84; loweit, 69,
I iciallcil weather, mall ami marine reports on page 6.
tut.
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 8. -
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916. Copyright, 19 1 0, by (Ae Bun Printing and Publishing Attociatton.
ONE CENT
In (irrater New York, I
Jersey City anil Newark. J
Elsewhere
TWO CKNTM.
.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
ENDS
HViuvinnuani,
10 QUIT TO-DAY
Last 5Vsioii in the Senate
Delayed by Revenue
Kill.
jirxrnox tax roost
1XTHK LAST nouns
I'mml' llflHCP TiH'Im OII WTt
1 1IH 1 t,,M,M lUlv ll ?- i
,, , ., . .
000.000 for the Danish
'nt TiiilSnc
' 1,1 '
WA'iilN'iiTos-, Sep!. 7. Congres will
iJJouIn to-morrow morning at to
e clock. After nine month devoted to
irfklatlon. both houses held pro
tncied session to-night lo wind up
their affair by approving the confer
iice agreement on the emergency rev
mur bill to raise approximately $200,
M.000, desired by the Administration.
Scores of member left town on
nlJnlght trains eager to reach their
tonus for :.irtlclpatlon In the nu
tonal political campaign.
The Senate wrestled with the confer
fr.ee report on the revenue bill tip to a
Utt hour, confluent of disposing of It
le-fore the final perfunctory session. In
(lit meantime it atso rutllled the Dan-.
CONGRESS
is treaty providing lor me purcimsc and iminted to its extravagances, prob-
otthe Danish West Indies, adding $25,-, ably will issue another estimate to-mor-
fW.OOO more to the. public expense nc- row.
unW In the Items which go to make up
Th. tinn.o nnmnlPtHl It lnlioi-s lone tupendou total are many which
The House completed Its labors long mark lhf of apply1B the 0
Wore midnight by adopting the con- (iUVernment ownership and of the most
!rence report on the revenue bltl and radical of this character ever enacted
airkfd time while awaiting action by ' by Congress. Among these are $50,000,
it Senate. When It became obvious ' 000 for a Covemment controlled m-r-that
the finishing touches could not be chant marine. IU.O0O.000 for a C.overn
... ,hi. .,,,. , ih, ,k. irM. ment armor plate factory, mure million
tu An this measure to-night the House ( f()r n (!overnnu.llt own, nUra. ,,lHnt
ijjourned until to-morrow morning. , and for ,joveninwllt factories for the
The chief obstacle In the way of tho j manufacture of military supplier and
Jr.al adjournment was the fact that the . munitions.
menue bill as mtslltled In conference ; Other unusual Items are: 4r,,fl00.000,
wH tint ho ensroKsed for the algna- I tor Mississippi Itlver linprovrmeiu
km of the presiding oflicers of the
to houses and the President.
To-morr.iw morning- tfio President
.H slgrr the bill nnd the Vlce-lTesi-dent
nnd Speaker of the House will' let
t!e Rave! fall for the last time until
December, when the xecond session will
btlln.
Maaltloaa Tax BooaleJ.
A furliMe hkittnv nf lUf tfivs nni
mnlllvis. thus Incieaslng the burden
( the Northern States, marked the clos
ing of tho conference on the war reve-1
we hill. The big fight In the Confer-
tix. The makers of munitions pre
i(rrd the Senate tax of 10 per cent,
on the net Income to the House tax on
.rcs Income. The Senate provision was
nulned, but modified so as to raise
tie tax from to to 12 Vi per cent.
The revenue expected to flow from
the hill as the House sent it to the
fnatr was $197,000,000.
The Sninte won on most of the pointi
e.' contention between the two house.
The new tax on stock of corporations
.n pxcts of $50,000 capital was re
tJlnp.l, hut modified so that the tax
iVuld be imposed at the rate of SO
fmti per thousand on the "fair valuo"
rsth-r than on the "market value" as
originally planned. But In measuring
the fair value the Treasury officers arc
r.t.-jdoil to take Into consideration
the surplus and undivided profits of
thf corporation.
The lletallnlory Provlaloaa.
A Anally agreed upon the first of the
fflallatory authorizations read:
"Whenever any country, dependency
r tolony shall prohibit the linoortation
if any article the product of the soil or
'ndustry of the United States and not1
injurious to health or morals, the Presi
dent fhall have power to prohibit dur
Inr the period such prohibition Is In
font the Importation Into the United
States of similar articles, or In case the
I'nlted States does not Import similar
artlclta, from that country, then other
articles, the products of such country,
dfpendency or colony,
"That whenever during the existence
"(a war In which the United States li
r.ot engaged the President shall be satls
M that there lu reasonable ground to
Wlsie that under the laws, regulations
or practice of nations the Importation Into
their own or any other country depsnd
ncy, or colony of anv article the nroduct
rvt the oll or Industry of the United
"'res arid not injurious to health or
moral Is prevented or restricted the
Prttldsnt Is authorized and empowered
io prohibit or restrict during the period
uch prohibition or testrictlon is In force
th Importation ipto the United States of
imlhr or other articles products of such
country, dependency or colony, in his
'Pinion the public Interest may require,
nd In auch case he shall make ptocla
mitlon, Hating the article or articles
filch are prohibited from importation
Into the United States, and any person or
terfons who shall Import, or attempt or
conspire to Import or be concerned In
Importing uch article or articles Into tha
United StMtes rnntrnrv tn thi. nrnhlhltlon
In mch proclamation, shall be liable to
a fine of pot less than $2,000 nor more
than $10,000, or to imprisonment not to
ceed two years, or both. In the dis
cretion of the court. The President may
'hinge, modify, revoke or renew such
Proclamation In his discretion, and the
knat agree to the same."
Wlthbn lit Clearances From Vessels.
The final retaliation measure based
n the same war conditions would lv
President authority to withhold
.ftorance to vessels of a belligerent na-
"Making or giving any undue or un
reasonable preference or advantage In
ny reapect whatsoever to any particular
person, company, firm, or corporation, or
My particular description of traffic In
United States or Its possessions or to
ay cltliens of the United States reald-
a neutral countries abroad or In sub
letting any particular person, company,
J"n or corporation or any particular
"crlptlon of traffic In the United State
Jf U possesions, or any cltliens of the
"Wed states residing In neutral coun
m '"'"d to any undue or unreason
prejudice, disadvantage, Injury or
"crimination In regard to accepting, re-
$2,000,000,000 disbursed by
Sipce December 6, 1915, When It Convened, $8,150,000
a Day Has Been Appropriated $85,000,000
for Good Roads a New "Porlf Barrel."
WAirffNOTON, Sept. 7. tf the leglsla
live record of the flrt e.lon of the
Plxty-fourth Congress were to be writ
ten In figure It would consist of two
Items the expenditure of (2,000,000,000
In money and the enactment of approxi
mately B00 bill.
Administration account nte much
more Inclined to emphasize the Impor
tance of the latter figure than the stag
gering ulte of the former. As a matter
of fact the money atithotlzed by Con
gress ami m obligations It ha entered
",0 com,t"u,' total o large that It I
Impressive without emphasis. The Sixty-
fourth Congress passes Into history a
$2,000,000,000 co..Kiee.
Congress ha been Itue-sslon 2S day.
including Sundays nnd holiday. Since
December , 1915, when It convened, un
til It adjourned, It has been spending
money at the rate of aniiroxlmatclv
IS.Ino.OOO a day, a record which com
pares not unfavorably with that of some i
,..Mur.wi I'oumnes vvnien are exhaust
ing their financial lesources to pay the
price of war.
v
)oinr Plaurra II I Iter.
As usual there Is a maikcd difference
among the financial recapitulations. The
Administration bookkeeper succeed In
making the total much smaller than the
minority accountants. The Treasury
Drpjrtment estimated the disbursement
for the fiscal year 1!UT at $l,12i;.O0u,0(i0.
This does not Include the eH-ndlturf
authorized which must be paid for by
future Congresses. It Is a mere cash uc
count. Senator Smoot, the lteiubllcan
expert 011 the Finance Committee, esti
mates that the total direct and author
ized expenditure will amount to $1,947,
LTiS.OtS. Representative Fltagernld,
chairman of the House Committee on
Appropriation, who shook n monitory
,,, r a, Administration lat year
wmcn wm result in ine reclamation ui
millions of acres of privately ow.-.ed
land in the Southern States : $85,000,000
for good roads, which Is a brand new
pork barrel: $20,000,000 or more for the
Improvement of Southern river and
streams.
How the Total ybrlnks.
After eliminating all authorized proj
ects which are not to be considered until
paid foi, the Administration accountants
reduce the total.
A further process or
.n-.vmm
ifORD BEGINS LIBEL
SUIT FOR $1,000,000
i Manufacturer Says Chicago
"Tribune" in Editorial Called
J I i in an Aiini'cliist.
Chicago, Sept. 7. Suit for Sl.noO.OOO
was filed by Henry Ford, the Detroit
manufacturer, against the Chicago Trib
une in the United States District Court
here to-day. Mr. Koid ask for personal
damages a compensation for an edi
torial printed In the Trlbunr June 23.
which, It Is charged, culled him un "an
archist." The bill chnrges that the 7'ribmie
"sought to bring the plaintiff Into public
hatred, contempt, rldlcale nnd financial
Injury" by publishing the editorial.
The editorial, it Is charged, refer ted
to Mr. Ford as "Ignorant," a "lUluded
human being," "and an anarchistic
enemy to the nation which protects him
In his wealth." It was based on thj re
port that Mr. Fold's cmplojees woull
lose their places If they went to the bol
der a members of the National Guard
The bill quotes the editorial as saying:
"Ford Is an anarchist."
"Inquiry nt the Henry Ford offices In
Detroit discloses tho fact that emploees
of Ford who are members of or recruits
in the National Guard will lose their
places. No provision will be made for
any one dependent upon them. Their
wages will stop, their families may get
along In any fabhlon porslble, their posi
tions will be filled and If they come back
safely and apply for their Jobs again
they will be on the same footing as any
other applicants. This I the rule of the
Ford employees everywhere."
The editorial continues: "Mr. Ford
thus proves that he does not uellve In
rvlce to the nation In the fashion a
soldier must serve It. If his factory
were on the southern, nnd not th north
ern border, wo presume ho would feel
the same way. We do not know pre
cisely what he would do If a Villa band
decided that the Ford strongboxes vteio
worth onenlnc and that It would be
pleasant to see the Ford factories burn.
It Is evident that It Is possible for mlll
ionaliei -Just south of the Canadian bor
der to be Indifferent to what happens
just north of tho Mexican border.
"IT Ford allows tms ruie ui oi i.ni
to stand he will reveal himself not ns
merely an Ignorant Idealist, but ns an
latin enemy of the nation which
protects him In hi wealth."
At the otneo OI me v-ihchko i
to-night It was said the TrHwin would
print nothing about the .Ford suit In to
morrow's Issue.
XAISER THA5K8 BULGABS.
CoBa-ratalatrs Klna Ferdinand on
Capture of Tatrakan.
Bxbi.in, via tendon. Sept. 8. The
Kaiser has sent the following telegram
to the King of Bulgaria. It t officially
announced: ...... ,
"I have-Just learned that the allied
troops have conquered the fortress of
Tutrakan (Turtukal). Accept my heart
iest congratulations on this brilliant feat
of the army of thy brave soldiers, from
which our new enemy may realise that
we not only knov how to defend cur
ves, but mar atria him even In his
own country. May Uod help further.
"Faithfully thine. Wilhclm."
shrlnkaice that they employ Is the put- (
ting tinder the column of extraordinary
expenses military and naval appropria
tion. What doe not ku under this
head I attributed xto contingent ex-1
penses due to the Mexican situation. (
Dosnllp thru reiltietlnll the amount
spent by Congress remain Inordinately
la ik and the balance sheet reflects no j
inaklnK Ifood of promises of retrench-
input inude ilurlnir thn last campaign.
Among the S00 bill passed during the
session Just closed are the following:
A bill providing for the establish
nifiit of a government controlled mer
(hunt marine.
A bill to exclude from Interstate
commerce the products of child labor.
A bill designed to give the 1'hlHv
pines a larger measure of self-government.
. .. .
A bill providing for the establish
ment of u system of land mortgage
banks.
A bill establishing a uniform bill of
lading. ,
A bill establishing uniform grain
standards and a wnrehouse system.
A bill establishing an eight hour dny
n it basis of pay for employees en
gaged In the operation of train In
interstate commerce.
A bill creating a tariff commission,
tilm-liiir a tirntertlve duty on dyestuffs
and providing means of retaliation for
discrimination imalnst America. This
tariff legislation marked the 'ndon-
ment of the Democratic party of their
old faith of u tariff for revlnue only
mill the esliousal of tiroWHIoll.
Kiinctmeut of war revenue bill lay
ing new taxes, especially Income taxes,
lnheiltauce taxes and taxes on muni,
tlnus.
I'riiiiil of rrrimredneaa.
AdmlnlMMtlon leailers aie nispoM-u i" I
.i ....!
take much creuu ior " 1,1 7"' . "' i
the prepareoness measures.
fat't that the tlftnt in me east im , ,
a-niv aVwell la" In the case of tht navvinnd Itulgnr troo, and heavy guns,
was' undei taken by members of the IrrcMlstlblc ptesHtitv . was brought tc
minority party and'was actually forced bear upon the fort nnd town, prevent
on President Wlleou. The Admltiltr.i- Unfs the defenders from mukiug a re
tlon acceptedjhe more complete meas tlrcment across the I)anuU.
ures grudglnglS and only after abandon- Th(. j jumanan Bl,rrij.,m could not re
ing Plans held by exerts to I Inade-1 r(, f
''""ot onlv on the preparedness que. "re of the attacking artillery,
tion but oil the subject of revenue legls- j nccordlng to a Sofia despatch to the
lntlon there were rlfls In the majority to.isl.r7ir Zritiinii received by way of
party. The Democratic pacifists fought j Copenhagen. It was a itustlon of nu
the larger army and navy at every turn, . nihllatlon or surrender, tho ilrsn.it, -h
especially m tne iiousr, vuurrnu
tlc. nrtniirrnt balked at the President
adiiitlou of the protective tariff pollcv
as applied to dyestuffs nnd at the eight I
hour iiav oiil without MKC mcarurc 3f
innmensatorv legislation.
Ilcvolt also broke out In the Houe
against the Administration' Philippine
Independence bill, which survived only
a a mefc shadow of what It was orig
inally. On the whole Congress merely re
flected completely the will Of the Admin
istration In the enactment of the 50
laws and the Administration reflected the
will of Cougre In large measure r. ap
proving the $2,0110,000,000 expenditure.'.
$10,000 GEMS FOUND
ON TAXICAB FLOOR
Former Ethel Croker Didn't
Know She Hud Lost
Them.
Chauncey TVpew Steele, who Is skip
per of the Hotel Algonquin in West
Forty-fourth street during the summer
months while Frank CaeO, proprietor of
the Algonquin. Is lolling on the sands
of Sag Harbor, came into town from
a little vacation ofhla own last Fri
day and engaged a taxlcab sunning
Itself-oulslife of the Grand Central Sta
tion i
An undersized chauffeur with a scar
on his left cheek dropped the flag and
began tn conduct Mr. Steele toward the
Algonquin. And n the Algonquin's iniui
ngei settled back among the cushion
he happened to notice that on the floor j
of the taxlcab was a black alligator
Jeuel case about tho size of a small
travelling bag. I
Mr. Steele took the Jewel cae uulo
himself and after studying the t-car on
.,iio-naplnii rheek of the chauffeur "nl iiiiiumti. ine i.uma-
declde I that iierh ips U would e Ju-t ,,lnn" ",nk " ",l,'r ",, wnl' " rechrlst
.l. '' hV ' , I, orre r ned It Tutrakan H- main Importance
1 : z. u: r: ;;.;
itIMIUl : V lu- . -
himself of the case and whatever It
mlsht contain.
"I did wave the bag in rront ot tne .,-,, !..,. ......,
chauffeur's nose when leaving the taxi-, rnmrr.l l-nrl. llHtiere.l.
cab," Mr. Steele told a reporter fiom The town was stronuly fortltled by llio
The St'.v yesterday, "but he dldnt xcejn numaiilun.-. who Improved on the do
to recognize It and so I took It Into , r ncr, the niK.lIW ,a,j ni,t for lt
my office In the Algonquin. iMany of the forts were unnoted, but
There after conferring with himself (l(iy Mi ,ikt, ,m n,.igan H, yrrwh
ror a time Mr. Steele opened the Jewel nrmoied fort, under the tire of the great
case hy the simple process of breaking I (rrmi(n H,.ge mortars,
the lock. Inside were three trays of Tutrakiili was lulended mainly aa a
jewels. MT. nieein uiiiiseu .
then began to sort out what later proved
10 uc jeneii) noiiii "'' -'"'"
There was a bar pin set with diamonds
worth $2,500, diamond bracelets wonn
$2,ou, diamond dinner rings, several
Jewelled pins nnd other Jewelry. And
among the glitter was n solid gold
mesh hand bag upon which was en
graved "Ethel Croker, 5 East Seventy-
fourth street.
it so hannens that the one time juisn
Kthel Croker. daughter of tho ex-chlef of wh0, mve every day cut deeper Into
Tammany Hall, Is now Mrs. Thomas Transylvania. The latter Is Ihe in-ire
White. Mr. Steele, therefore, had some mporant aim. and the slowing up of
trouble locating "Mis Kthel Croker" the' Itumanlan advance to the north re
over the telephone, so much trouble, In eently may mean that already It is be
fact, that it was not until late that night B realized,
that he learned, after persistent telephon-1
Ing, from Mrs. White's sister-in-law, Hnsalana .March ouili.
down on Long Island, the private tele- i,rrVP, i,oio, how over, that -'ie
phone number of Mrs. White In the 0eimR re not making nllnwance
Seventy-fourth street house. e0UKh for the new Hussian nriby that Is
No, Mr. White had lost nothing of',n Ilunmni,, .From llerlln cot ne file
value, he Insisted over the telephone. n(,WH t,.(t HironK forces of Itusslan nr.--when
Mr. Steele finally got Into com- ,,.. .,, ,he ftuniaulati frontier f
munlcution with her. The Algonquin
manager Insisted, however, that he had
found Homethlng of vnluenpon which
her name wus engraved, and asked her
to call Ht hi office und Identify her be-,
longing.
Dally for four days Mr. Steele called
up Mr. White to ask her' whether or not
she had yet learned that anything was
missing from her belongings. No, sho
hadn't, she said. Hut finally came an ex
cited cull over the telephone, ending with
the announcement: "I'm on my wuy to
the Aljonquln."
Mrs. White had lost something, after
ull, said something being the'Jcwel case
an4 Its contents. How It had got Into
the taxlcab she said she didn't know.
IJut sho took the Jewel case and contents
L'Mtefully and offered a reward, which
-was gently refused.
RUMANIA LOSES
CAPITAL GATE
AND 20,000 MEN
Fortress of Tutrakau. 35
Miles From IJucharest,
Falls to Invaders.
. ) mi) I l)I)IM 4. C!
AJtJI 1 1 If A I J Vilt AO
FORTS AUK STOIIMKD
Advance Against Hungary
Is Xow Kxpected to He
Halted.
I.OMKJN, Sept. 7. (lerm.in ami llul-
jgnrlnn troops have stormed the Hit-
manlan fortrrss and town of Tutralinu,
I ...... i. ..I.. .,n ,i i i '
r,.....ius -,vv iMi-un.-is mum
booty, Iteilln unnouuees. This lmpor-
Jtant victory seriously tlircatotia lluch
iaret, the ltumanl.iii capital, only
! thirty-five miles uw.tv.
Tlie Teutonic' succcm seems to have
l een complete, llesldes the prisoners
j taken large numlirrs of llumnnlnn.M
j were killed. Among the prisoners ate
I two tlener.tls and -loo other olllcer.x.
JThp booty Includes loo v.tunon and
yloics of nil Kinds.
This blow, stunk iiL-.iiiikt
Ittimaula
r
little more than a week after she
ru
tereil the wnr. was marked
by rapid
-.,, -..,..,, l.ll,.eI1,r,1.n nf ,!,..,
says, and the Kumanlan surrendered.
Ilamaiilaus Kvarualr Mace.
No admission of the capture of Tutra-
kan has been received from the Human-
Ian War Office, but a Itusslan otllcl.il
statement, telegraphed here, says that
the Itumanians were evacuating the
place. A Itumanlan statement dated es
terday said that the Teutons had been
reenforced, especially with big guns, but
the lturaanlau garrison was ceaselessly
counter attacking. Tho fall of the town
and forts has lieen forecast by the Ger
mans, who nnnounced esterd.iy that
seven rori" nail lieen taken.
'Hie Herman olllclal statement a tele-,
graphed here follows
The victorious; German and Unitar
ian forces have- taken tg,t. stronglv
fortlfled town of Turtuka."iTutrakai,l
by Mono, The number of prisoner
taken by them, according to account
already received, exceed '.'0,000,
anions whom are two Gineras anil
more than 0O other officer. More
than ion cannon were lapturcd, The
Itumanians suffered heavy ciisiialiles.
An attack of trnrg Itusslan force
against Dobrlc i liasanljlk. In south,
eastern Itumanla) was repulsed,
Cnillnl Fnrly Xllles Distant.
liucharest It. now open to an atlail.
from the armv that took Tutrakau The
itumanlan capital Is
miles northwest nf
onlj thlrt-tlve
Tutrakau, and, .
once the Danube Is crossed. ai advane.
Ing army could move c.tilv along a
" " "o" p me .ne.v oi me i a ui-,
brunltza toward the capital. The only
natural obstacle Is n range of bills some
ten miles south of liucharest. liucharest i
useir is protected by a ring of twenty or
more fort, but Is on a level plain
Apparently the Germans and llul
gnrlans have not yet crossed the Danulie,
The southern hank, on which they now
are, Is higher than the northern,' how
ever, and thus their artillery has the
advantage over the Itmnanlan.
The town of TutrnK.in I In Itself un
important. Its population Is little over
S.oan, ninl the country about It Is u.
voted largely to fruit growing Until
the secon! Halkan war It wa Mtilgnrlan
and was called Turtukal. The ituma
n- in Himtegu.
porltlou hs a gale
Into the heart of llumanla and to nucha
lest, hrhlRehead to piotcct the railway to
Hurlmr(.Mi wnch ,.,os.ses the Danube
there, wimanin aiwas na expecteii un
Invasion by Bulearla lo leconquer the
strip of southern Duhrudja thst w.is
wrested from her In the second Halkan
war.
The German-lluhiniiau advance Is bp
lloved to have two objects; to take
fjucharest Hlid theieby depress the Itu
manlan nation, and to draw hack to do
,,,,, .,,,imi n,. rtniiiuiiiin,
, Tll. rili(nn. The Itusslnns in fence ore al-1
iacMK the Kutuuulau city of Dohtir
, ( .,,,.,,,, In southeastern rdj ,.
llfteen inue irnin ine ironner or nut.
Kaiia, which line n-moim say inej 'cap-
tured. llerlln snya the l,zar foicv
have lieen lepulscd hy Hulgiirlnti tmop.
I'ctrograd has been completely silent
nbciit the army in itumauia.
In northern Trausylvaula the Itusslan
trlau army about noma Vatra, Ju.t
across the border In the llukotvlna, and
the Austrian havn had to retreat,
Tho Austrian have withdrawn to
heights west of Olah Toplltz.-i, south of
Doina Vntra und twenty miles west
the lltimaman noruer. mis I a with-
drawal westward or the nnithern end of
Continual na fourth Pupc,
STRIKE FAILS ON LAND SUBWAY;
MOTORMEN STAND BYINTERBORO;
TIEUP ON N. Y. RAILWAYS LINES
TO ARREST WOMAN
FOR PARK MURDER
Police Kind Witnesses Who
Stiy Dihvoi'tli Was .Not
Slnin ly Itiintlits.
I Arrest of a woman stn-pcctrd of the
i murder of Dwlght I'. Dilwoith Sunday
j nhiht In Van CortlHiidt I'ark. or of com
I pllclty In the murder, Is expected houity,
i It was nnnoiuiri-d last night after n con
I Terence of Asulstant District Attorney
. ijulgley of Itronx counly anil Cnrrtner
I'lynn.
! A Kill was found who l said to have
' seen the shouting, and Liter her com
panion In the park that night, a .oiinc
man. was found. Itoih of them wete ex-
'""men in me ixiiiKsnnoge pome station
when they h:nl told their story. .MIsh
Maty McMff. who was with Dllworlli
In an atitomohlle when he was sl.iln, was
Ir.nrledly smnnioned from her home In
Wcl Sevvntt -fifth street and taken to
the police station Just before midnight.
She wa iiuestloiled lit length In the hope
that her story might throw additional
llhht on the account glt'cn by the sup
posed Itnesses.
it was reported perslstenly that tho
.miuiik couple who wen! In the park Son
iia login asserted a woman, and not
bandits, killed the llioad street .ittoiny,
wh home was In Montclair.
.Miss M Nlrr, proprietor of a l"lt;h
avenue extracts and perfumes shop, ar
isen ai tne Kingshrlilge station acconi
panled by Kugene Cot win. In whose fa u- "tilke of the Third .iv.nue men. If
lly she lives. these go out. he .idmltteil. It will take
Three mm arrested near "Lovers' ' '"'xer to lueak the strike. Hut even
Lane," the golf links load where tleil"1"1 thl he ,romld without leserve
tragedy occurred, were examined nt condltloi.M would b al:u!tile!y nor-
lingth earlier In the evening. A scoro' 1,1,11 within three or four davs.
nf inrl InunvAF. l.n.l I .. t i. . .. "Thern m tv lin u,..if.. .1 1, t.1AnnA i. -
.luring the day ami questioned as w "'''i " answer to a iimMion. "but if tin
nl7Vl -a... JZXiYiT
IS,.:. A? ?r r"!!
The itronx repeated a stntemeni io
friends that she had heard some one
peak of being an eye witness to the
tragedy Tills story, run down, tesutted
In finding the girl In iiestlon. At llrst
she denied belnc near the pla4. Con
fronted by the woman who had repeater)
her statement, she changed her mind, j
and gave rather a complete account of
what she saw. She described the woman
who shejald fired the fatal shots.
Coroner Klynn announced his Inten
tion of going through Dllworth's private
papers to learn. If he could. If he had
Intimate relations with any women. He
wanted to ascertain also If his friend
ship with Miss McNIff antedated his
being retained by her as attorney, or
whether, as first asserted, their friend
ship was the outgrowth of their business
relations.
Letters received In Montclair yestetdav
from Mrs. I Ml worth Indicated perfect
domestic harmony In the Dllworth home.
For e.xamp'c. she told a friend that her
husband was more nnd more Insistent
on her early nturii from Kansas City
XlTulT "n '
she wou.ii be ti.uk h (. tub, i
R00SEVELT IN MOVIES TO-DAY.
Will tpprtir In Itrpiilillinn Luxe
Fen st nt sngninnre J I 111.
Down at Col. llooevelt' house at
Sacaniore Hill there will be doings this
morning, when leaders and worker at
lleiiulillc-.t'i national headuuartei will
V
assemble and with the Colonel be
mapped for the "movies."
This Is n.irt of ihe movlnir nlctuie
I lyout ltepiibllcaiis ale gelling up for the
ca mpa IKU. rue picture win snow a love
f,.,,M of Itt-publlcaii and Progressive"
with the Colonel a the star Clialinr.in
Wlllcox, lleiheit Parsons, George W.
Perkins, Itii' inrnid Itoblns, Frank II.
Hitchcock. Kverett Colby. Fred D. Usta-
biook and other Itepubllcan and Pnures
slve I'ommitteemcti ale to be plctuted on
the lawns and' steps of the Colonel'
pl.ue. shaking hands with him
This film will be sent to each State
organization to be used at Jiolltical
meetings and in theatre,
Republicans also ate preparing a tllni,
"Watchful Wulttng," which ha been
written by Hal Iteld. Pictures weie
taken jestetday nt Sheepshead Hay, ex
citing cavaliy chaiges with Mexicans
being' a feature of It, This Is going to
be sent out bioadcast, "
Another Mini In the fotni of n pic
torial speech by Chat Im K. Hughes is
being screened The 'candidate will le
shown speaking and alongside will be
thrown what he says. A lllm company
lias agreed lo put this over in S.0H0
theatres.
JUNKET TO CHINA PLANNED.
snintor smith Would Have I'on
urraameii In v estluatr 'Open Door,'
Wahihnoton, Sept 7. The first step
I inward Congressional activity lo pre
vent the closing of the "open door" tn
China was taken to-daf when Senator
Hoke Smith of Georgia Introduced a
icMilutlon In the Senate to create n Joint
CmiKicesloiial commission of four Sena
tors unci live Itcprei-ciitntlves to visit
China and Investigate Ameilcnn com
mercial opportunities Ihete.
The icsolotloti requests the Piesldenr"
lo appoint live citizen to act with the
commission. The preamble of the reso
lution says:
"It In ncci ssar to extend and hio.idcn
the market for American viaducts to
the end that with the close of the war
the largest pos-slblc demand for Amerl.
can products should exist tluoughout the
world,"
MISS IANGHAAR DROWNED.
Ilnitwbler of llrmikltn Xlnn l,oe
i Life In llerksblre l.nkr,
nlhyT i.nnghaa'r, daughter of ' m"i and
, a'Xn.ghaa -of sii ciirmnnl
PiTTSFin.P, Mass, Sept, 7 Ml Do--
vomlP Urooklyn. N, Y vvnsdiowncd In
,,,. (irllelil. Monlcrry, lo.ilay. She
waH wll(nK xvltti a younger slsieiaiid
, H111,0Hr.,i , have stenned Into a deen
hah-
She was a studcnl at Vassar Col-
I lege.
I Her father I a member of Ihe New
Vork Slock llMiiangc.
II, T. Iledford' lliitne llolihed,
llllllslKI'iHtT, Colin., Sept, 7. The sum
mer residence of 1-2. T. Hcdfotd. banker.
nflm GreenV I'arm wiin robbed lust night
while the family wa at dinner. Jewelry
piobably worth J2.000 wa taken from
an upper hedioom. Among the missing
urllclca is a &oo watch.
STRIKEBREAKING
CHIEF RUSHES HERE
WiuMell Aiiives on 8V00
Speeiiil: Knil in IH Honrs. ,
He Snys.
The "Chief of the St! Ike llie.ikers
.lames T. Waddell, urilved In New Votk
at ii;ii2 last nlRhron a $3,Son flieclal
tiain from Chicago to take charge nf the
ltiterliorUKli elevated and surface line
trouble. After ho had talked brlelly over '
the telephone wllli Cenernl Manager
lledley and his superintendent, IMwatd
If. Mauley, he ileclated that he will have j
the strike broken within forty-eight
Iioiiin unless new illfllcullles arise, i
2.7O0 working, ami the 'rest are rJir
ncaV.rcV
inace.s- h.,t can be on the ji, i mtPrn
hour. I've nut more ,r ii,,,.. i know i
what to do with, and all my recruiting
lines eji ijr i nieago, except Iluffalo,
have been closed."
lie intended, he -aid, to get a few
nours sleep anil then start In at r. i.Vlol;
this inuinlug mi his tak of ending the I
TI,e",tuatlon, a. ho sired It up I con. 1
liected alinis't excluolvely with the sur
face lines. Tile eilhway and elevated
roads c;mi "take care of themselves," he
believes.'-The onlv thing that tan hold
tV a -ettlement of the ttotlble N
lirrt.
.it - Thai i up to the police, and if thev
can't handle It It's up to the militia. "
The j3,5oo nving trip was started at
ltZlMC'-hoilZ:
had called Mr. W.tddell by phone In Chi-
cago, where lift had Iieon making hit
headquarters In expectation of thj
lie could have""!, Hed a 'few hours and fir'st dny's progresH. There was evidence that the strike would
caught the Twentieth century Limited. ' last for some time. The American Federation of Labor laid
wl.leh would have brought him into New . , . ., .. . ., , . .
vork ot o'clock thi morning, hut on plans to call sympathetic strikes and to raise a fund
cti llai.VhTcctr'wti.S.OOO.OOO, it was said-to aid the Amalgamated.
from a suburban train about to leave'
Chicago and a Pullman whs requisitioned "Strike IS Broken, ShoTtts SaVl.
from ii Hock Island train bound foi ' . . , i ...
Davenport. have the strike broken. Jubt- I expected from tho presence bi town or
The MI miles to Hlkhart. Ind were'-'tid Theodore 1. Shunts, piesklelit of'h.s hot of strike bie.ikirs. The plan of
made in ion minute. The first trouble the two corporal Ion nffected.
came at Krle, when n hot Imv caued one ! l-'it.gcrald made the "red car" men
coach to be cut out The New Yorklprnml.se not to strike until called. The
...... ,,-,uires , our curs io a p.ieii-
ger train, so there was n forty mlmit
wait at Jlurr.ilo for another coach. Till
'' i " Xtna' Cel.tra'Ten,;,:
M a eoni ,.,,,, .,,,,
was a wooden one. which cannot be
sleel car was sent to Svr.icuse.
Theie were, four in the party Mr
Waddell, a railroad official and two
newspaper men. Mileage cost. $1,: ,
with 2S0 for the Pullman and $xnn for
under schedujn lime. Thcie was $1imi
spent for eaiahles ami $.mn In tips to the
seven crews which piloted the train.
DANISH TREATY RATIFIED.
, s, seiuiie Takes Finn! cllon
Pimlieil In CfipellliHgen,
Washington. Sept 7 The treaty '"en engaged. Only Mm strike breakers
providing for the purchase from Den-,l''c needed cstertlay, the Interbor
mark of the Danish West Indie for ! ough toild.
t25.iMi(,.iiou wa ratified hy the Senate, There was little violence. Slight rtls-
to-nlith There was no roll call and
less than half a dozen Senators. Includ
ing Senators Norrl, Jones and i.'lapp.
voted against It,
Coi'KNliAUKN. Sept 7. The proposal
ot the Conservative puty for the up-"
polntmeiit of .1 parliamentary committee
of thirty meinbeis to consider the ne
gotiations for the sale of the Danish
West Indies to the United State was
agreed to lo-uluht by the lepresentntlve
of various parties in the Klgsdag.
The icprvM-utatlve- also agned to the
Conserv.itlV plan for a plebiscite under
the new constitution when the commit
tee makes u leport No agreement,
however, has yet been reached concern
Ins the formation of a oaltlon Cihlnet.
It will be dlscm-scd at another meeting
to-inonow
MOVIE QUEEN IN PERIL.
Vlxrlc Dressier Flirt With Dentil
III Men Antic.
If the 13.37S.iint girls ill Anicti.a who
are lllm struck could have been ciowded
on the beach at Kavcnhall's, Coney
Island, yesterday, it would have done
each of the 13.27S.0U1 cnusldeinble ood
and It might have cured the odd one.
Tliey would have seen Mnrle Dressier
at wmk. Poor Marie fell ackwaid out
of a skiff at the director's command, and
was pulled ashore by a rope tossed to
her. Again flic rolled out of
a i-Utrf.
fl-mn II
caught a life preserver tossed
power boat, and was towed at high Kjiced
through the waves for a quarter mile.
..H. .
i in ii Mir i iioio. o nun on oui ,m i there can be no nrouiaim-m wun
bile Isiily, lashed to an Improvised iaft',1,,, itullvv.iv 's men because of their nb
l.OOii feel from shore and went through I ,i!atlon of'the August ngiermeut.
n number .of antics demanded by the I .pi,p .w Hues cemented their rorces
scenario, while the surf rocked her peril-1 further by granting double pay to the:
ously. At lust It happened the thing m,.j, w,' remain loyal, Furthermore, I
CHpslzed and hoi rifled onlooker gasped 1 ,vy Intimated that at the conclusion of
when Mis Dicssler did not Immediately t htrhe a new scale of wage will go
reappear. It was thought she w i' i imn effect that will repay the men per-
pinned under the automobile body, ''"t 1 m itiontlv.
after a breathless half minute she' 'Thl, -lir)iu ,-onttacts, the dlstrlhu-'
enieigcd and swam to safety. She vviikI., f ,.i,iri, served to bring on the I
almost exhausted and Hie director kindly
called It a day. They earn their money.
some of 'em.
DEFICIENCY BILL PASSED.
Cnrrle
in
Months Snlnrji ror Hit
Trade t'oiiiiuUslon.
blee on
WAMIIINimiN, Sept. 7 The gelier.il
deficiency bill, can Ing nri.nmi.niiii. M.
i-luiln-' ?3,ooo,iiiio for paying Nicaragua
under the new- treaty lor an Intcroceanle
canal route and coaling base, finally was
approved by Senalo and House In-night
a It came from conrcicncc.
Among the Items wa one ror Ihe
salary or George Itubloe a n memlwr or
the Federal Trade Commission for the
tlfteen month between hi nomination
and the Senate action isjcctlng It,
Second and 'third Avenue, Bronx,
Queens and Richmond Employees,
Eager to Go Out, Await Call
of W. B. Fitzgerald
LEADER BLAMES ENGINEERS
Violence So Far Is
Report Only 30
Mitchel Returns
Trains on the.subway and
borough were operated yesterday and last night with full crows
""J" the usl,al headway. The surface car schedules were
disrupted. The best point of ethciency the New i ork Hallways
... . ... ...
company was auie w ruacii was
at 4 o'clock in the afternoon. At 8 o'clock last night every
surface car, was in its barn.
The first day of the carmen's strike caused little incon-
Ven'ence But fl the PIiCemen WllO rode tlw Cai'S it WOllld
have.been hard to tell a strike was in progress. The police will
continue this work to-day.
The main reason for the failure of the union to cripple
the subways and overhead trains was the loyalty of the
motormen. -These men, who class themselves as skilled laborer,
have no affiliation with the Amalgamated. They were enrolled
with the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers a few weeks
ago, and as they are not allied with the American Federation
of Labor have no direct sympathy with the other union men.
V. B. Fitzgerald, organizer of the Amalgamated union.
onenlv accuses the enorineers'
- ., . , , , , , .. .,
ure oi me inienueo suaaen iieup. ine oroinernoou organized
the motormen, who refused to obey the Amalgamnted's strike
call.
Fitzgerald asserted, however, that he is satisfied with the
. - . rp,11.s. ttii i. m.i r i ,i1P
other lines, the Third Avenue, Second
Avenn t'nhiTi nnnanu n,it IHKlimniwI
whi employee wlUmeet in.
am to-night to dlscu the sltua-
lion.
llronklyn bid fair to escape. The
I!. It. T. cunvnsscd It men eterday
and asserted few were In the union.
Mrlkr llrenkrr "Ulna" Xrrlve.
i... t. i.. 1 1 i, , , , ,
lame T. Waddell, who Is supplying
'he strike breaker, arrived last night,
'He sild the strike will ! broken In
I forty-eight hour unless tlm "red car"
men go out, tn which case It will take
lour day. He added that he has 3.S00
liirbauces here and there were easily
quieted At mldulKht only thirty arrest
had been made.
The Public Service Commission began
an Inquiry into (lie caiu.es. Shouts,
I'l.inU lledley, vlce.piceldcit and geu
eril manager of the Intel borough, and
Fitzgerald were on the stand. Testi
mony Indicated the trouble was precipi
tated by ihe falluie of a minor einplo.vee
of the New Vork ItalUTays to tell lledley
the board of director of that company
had lesclnded the order to give "green
i. n" men Individual contact.
.Major Mitchel ai rived at S o'clock last
night He would make no comment
until he had Informed himself fully. He
we'd Into conference with Lamar Hardy,
Corporation Counsel, and Theodore
ltousseau, his secrctaiy. This morning
ho will meet Oscar Straus, chairman of
the Public Service Commission, to try
to devise a means of ending the strike.
Half the police force of the city was
on strike duly. Through the day 3,300
men vveio on active duty, while ihe
same number were In reserve. Thus far
the conflict has been easy of handling.
Should the trouble break out In other
boroughs, however, there will have to
be n distribution or forces that will
lessen tat- piotectlon now accorded Man
hattan anil The Hronx,
Pence Overture Itrjrrtrrt.
Peace as offered hy the Public Servbe
' . . r.,..,.i ,.. 1....1. ui.i.
Commission was rejected by both side
J v..st.T.Jii.x
Cluiii man Straus offered
... rn . ...
iibttratlon for the settlement of differ-
,,
1
in-e. Shoot and lledley rejected II
n ..,i- mi behalf of the liiterbnrnugli and
labor war. weie Hung out through tho
Interboiough and Hallway' ylcm yes-
tcidav. There were hundred more In
the Ht'lbwav and "L" service who pledged
l einselve; to the Interboiough Illother-
hood-thc union's enemy. In the Hall-
ways' lines there were hundred who
availed Ihcmselve of the contract.
Strike Rrt'Hkrr "King" Arrives.
1 The legal department qf the dual )
I lems nil day nccumuloteil evidence of
Intimidation and coercion to win the
signer of these contract away from the
companies. Hack or this I the purpote--
ir the necessity arises en moving agaiui
the union leader on the ground of crimi
nal conspiracy to Injure the railway
properties.
Lltlle betterment of service can be
Negligible and Police
Arrests -Mayor
to Aid Peace
elevated lines oT the lnter-
it; pur ueiti. hi normal service
hrotherhoofl of rmistinir tllP fnil.
rrt . . .
the railroad officers I to concentrate Its
energies at the present time to holding
the subway and "I." Hue up to full op
eration, even at til ist of the surface
street car lines. There hardly will bo
any letdown In the train service, the.
surface cars will hardly get above tho
20 per cent, operation.
IIiiKliirers iintl I'lrenien Heitlx-r.
Stationary engineers, flu-men and
power house employees of the Inter
borough and New York Hallway com
panies In general an- considering seri
ously calling a sympathetic strike to help
I the carmen. Decision w ill be an-
, lim,Ced In twodajs, Secrctaiy W Flan-
agan of the firemen's local said e-ler-ilay.
Tho power houses which would he
affected are al Sev entv -lout til street and
Hast Itlver and at Flfty-nlntii street
and North Itlver. About Mio tlremcii
ine employed In these plant,
Secret meetings un- s.ild to lie hao
been held to discuss the situation.
Iteports cuticiit In Mount Vernon slid
the carmen of Vonkers, .Mount Vernon,
New Uochelle nnd White Plains will b
called out on strike Saunilay by Mr.
Fitzgerald in snipathy with ihe New
York city strike.
So far the service ha not been af
fected, and In event of ,i strike plans aio
prepared for automobile bus servhe in
nil the principal couinmuitles of West
cheslei So Mr as i.iu be learnt d by
outsider the c.iimcii aiu not anxious to
be called out.
The 4fi0 cmplojees nf ihe ltd lmiond
Light and H.illrnad Companv, wh , h has
a monopoly of the iiollev system mi
Statcu Island, will meet this afleinooii
at S o'clock to discus their situation
and to take a Ml Ike v ote Whether as
member of tho Amalgamated they go
out depend on what cinucslons the
company I toady tn make It Is not
a sympathetic move, the men my.
Police 1 le.nlqiiai ter sci in opeiatlou
yesterday a mechanism which gave ie.
turns every Hvo hours on the service
of all the elevated, subway and surf.ve
lines affected bv the strike. Last niL-iit
the indications were Unit conditions
close to normal ptevalled throughout tr
day below- and above the gioimd, and
that the green street cais cave no rer
cent, of their usual service on moft of
the lines, Hetween ' nnd 7 Inst night
Headquarters reported that the more Im
portant surface system" had quit
"I'rraiing as a prec ii.i .ua y measure.
1 and by s n clock nil street cars were
Idle.
Police llecorrt Hcheitnle.
At 1 o' lo-l; eslenl,i mormng the
Interboroiiuh had nluetteii trains iiiiiniug
from lCith stnci and Lenox avenue,
llflein from 2l.'d stuct and llio.idwa v .
thirty-two from KOtli street in Tli
Hronx, ten from 137th sheet and Mroail.
v-,y, an iqual liuiubcr from Dvckm.ui
street nnd seven from 2i:.th stiect ami
llroadwi. In all there weie ninety. three
trains in operation. .At noon there- wer
four more trains running fiom 143th
"trod.
,u - o'clock the nfflc-il had taken off
I "!' l '" nlnel -three At I
ociock there weie lo;l tiams .t s
, ! fj'' n'"''" ";'IV winning from
1 J1"'11 HJ,r;",1 '7"'x "v-nue. eleven
"'" Vv"'''."' 'i!"' ,lW'' u.Uv"' "'V"""
.n'" l lrt,maM ",,"'t ,,ml ""''" f,oin
" p,,i,'.. ii.V,,i, .w i.,r . it.
the lieutenants and sergeants who sent lit
these report that tiulllc was about nor.
nial. At l o'cloik then- wen- twenty
fewer ti.iln than al the lowest point of
the afleinooii. or sixty-eight
III! the elevated Hum o w.i the usual
service on Ihe trains starting nl lo
, -,.inrK n the morning from l2'.Mh s-(.,.t
(ll,, Thlid avenue and from lltnnx IMil,.
.Mneiy iram wen- stniteii on
Ulchth iivemie. ami thii .v -ihi-e
171'th slrect and Tin il iventie
upper
fioni
F 00
vv
12?tll street pud Second ivcnin
dei-pntchcd iwcnl) -lliiee Hams At
Continued on Fourth Page.
I
I
