WEATHER.
Thundershowers this af'-irnoon or to
night; tomorrow fai;*; fcoo!er: moderate
south shifting to west winds, with
squalls.
Temperature for twenty-four hours
ending 2 p.m.: Highest. *2. at 2 p m to
day; lowest, 68. at 6 a.m. today.
Fu 11 report on page 14.
CliOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 14.
Irf
'From Pmts to Home
Within the Hour"
9wo rn IVet CIvealatloB, Month of Anfiut.
ltlS. Dally Arerafe. 74.96?, Saaday. 55.713.
No. 29,435.
WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916-EIGHTEEN PAGES.
ONE CENT.
BIG BATTLE RAGES !
AS RUSSIANS STRIKE
. FOE IN DOBRUDJA
????? j
Slavs Assail Bulgars and Ger
mans Between Danube
and Black Sea.
SOFIA CLAIMS CAPTURE
OF FORTRESS AND PORTS
Bamanians Have Again Occupied
the Important Town of
Orsova.
AUSTRIAN FORCES RETIRE!
i
Vienna Admits Danger of Envelop
ment to Heights West of Olah
Toplitza, Twenty Miles
West of Border.
LONDON, September 8. 3:25!
p.m.?The beginning of a great!
battle in southeastern Rumania. I
where the Russians have taken 1
the offensive against the Bul
garians and Germans, is reported,
in a Rome dispatch given out by
the wireless press. The struggle
is now under way over the whole
front in Dobrudja between the
Danube and the Black sea. Fight
ing is particularly desperate near
Baltjik, on the Black sea coast,
about ten miles north of the Bul
garian frontier.
An undated official Bulgarian
report from Sofia received here
today says that the Bulgarian and
German forces which are invading
eastern Rumania have capturedj
the fortress of Dobric (Basardjik) ;
and the seaports of Baltjik, |
Kavarna and Kali Akra.
Rumanian troops have occupied ;
Orsova, an important Hungarian;
town on the Danube, according to j
a dispatch to the Times from j
Bucharest today. This is con
ceded in the latest official Bul
garian statement.
One of Principal Ports.
An unofficial dispatch from Vienna on
Wednesday announced that Orsova had
been taken by the Rumanians. Orsova
is one of the principal ports on the
lower Danube and has considerable
commercial importance. It is a few
miles above the Iron Gate of the Dan
ube. where the river leaves Hungary
arid forms the boundary between Ru
mania and northeastern Serbia.
Austrian troops have withdrawn be
fore a threatening Rumanian envelop
ment to the heights west of Olah Top
litza. south of Dorra Watra, and twen
ty miles west of the Rumanian border,
says the latest official statement is
sued at the Austro-Hungarian head
quarters.
In explanation of the capture of the
Rumanian garrison at Turtukai. a
Sofia dispatch to the Vossische Zeitung.
received here by way of Copenhagen,
says that the Rumanians were prevent- |
ed from retiring across the Danube by !
the violent artillery fire of the attack- j
ing forces. It became a case of anni-!
hilation or surrender, and the garrison j
surrendered.
Kaiser Sends Greeting.
Emperor William has sent the follow
ing telegram to the King of Bulgaria.
It is officially announced in Berlin:
"I have learned that the allied troops
have captured the fortress of Tutrakan
'Turtukai). Accept my heartiest con
gratulations on this brilliant feat of
army of thy brave soldiers, from which
our new enemy may realize that we not
only know how to defend ourselves, but
may strike him even In his own coun
try. May God help further. Faith
fully thine. WILHELM."
Bulgarian Official Report.
A Bulgarian official statement issued
at Sofia September 4, and received here
todav, recounts minor engagements in
Macedonia and the commencement of
the German and Bulgarian attacks
against the Rumanian fortress of Tur
tukai. on the Danube, in which bat.tl?
the Rumanians were driven behind the
forts, leaving 100 unwounded men on
the field Of the operations on the rest
of the Dobrudja front the report says:
"Our column operating in trse direc
tion of Sillstria defeated the enemy
north of th*\ village of Ohaskeny. cap
turing eleven wagons of ammunition
which the enemy had abandoned after
his defeat and retreat toward Silistrla.
Kurtbunar Captured.
' "Our troops which on September
captured Kurtbunar, after six hours of;
fiuhting yesterday (Sunday), defeated
th?- enemy, who was dispersed into the
plains. The Rumanians left on th<i
battlefield more than 600 bodies and a;
>;reat quantity of equipment and arms, j
We took one staff officer and nine :
other officers and 700 unwounded men ;
prisoners.
"Our troops advancing on Dobric de-j
feated the enemy and threw him back j
towards the northeast.
"Our troops marching on Baltjik (a.\
Rumanian town on t^je Black sea,
twenty-five miles north of Varna),.oc-j
cupied a village three miles west of!
the town."
Air Raids Against Bucharest.
Knemy air raids were renewed Tuesday,
according to a Reuter Bucharest dis
patch, against Bucharest, Ploesti, Con- '
stanza (Kustendje). Piatra. Neamtzu and
Bechet. The public demands reprisals j
against enemy subjects, the dispatch
adds.
Violent artillery fighting is under way
> on the front in Greek Macedonia, the
French war office announced today. The
principal engagements are in progress on
the Struma front, in the region of Mount
Beles. and in the vicinity of Lake Doiran.
4
BROKEN. IS Ml
Half of Surface Cars^Running,
Officials of Lines
Assert.
WILL TAKE BACK MEN
WHO LEAVE THE UNION
President Shonts Offers to Restore
His Men to Former Places
of Seniority.
NEW YORK, September 8.?
With subway and elevated trains
being operated apparently on nor
mal schedule, traction officials in
sisted today that New York s
strike has been broken. Fifty per
cent of the "green cars" of the
New York Railways Company's
surface system were running, the
company announced, and police
department reports indicated that
the walkout was not having a
widespread effect.
Union leaders claimed at noon that
3,500 men were on strike on the subway
and elevated roads and 4,000 men on
the "green car" system.
Theodore P. Shonts, president of the
Interborough, announced that all of the
men who have struck on the New Yorkj
railway lines owned by the Interbor
ough could have their positions back, |
with their former places of seniority!
restored, if they resigned from the
union by 1 p.m. tomorrow.
Strikebreakers on the Job.
Having frustrated the efforts of its
striking employes to tie up the subway
and elevated railways, the Interborough
Rapid Transit Company today turned
its attention to its surface lines, which
have been crippled since the strike
wan declared, Wednesday night.
All cars on the so-called "green" lines,
representing the greater part of the j
surface system in Manhattan and the
Bronx, were withdrawn at 8 o'clock last
night, after maintaining during the day
a service barely 20 per cent of normal.
When the surface cars were started
out again at 6 o'clock this morning
the situation was in charge of James T.
Wad dell, known as the king of strike
breakers. Mr. Waddell came here from
Chicago last night, making the run by
special train in twenty hours. He prom
ised to crush the strike in forty-eight
hours.
"I have 3,500 strikebreakers h?re,"
said Waddell, "and 2,700 of these are
now working. They are more than
enough to control the situation."
Trains Running as Usual.
Subway and elevated trains ran last
night and this morning as usual. Fear
ing that the strikers would be able to
interrupt this service thousands of per
sons yesterday patronized the multitude
of jitney automobiles that mobilize at
every important center, but today the
traveling public returned to its accus
tomed routes by subway and "L".
A number of elevated trains were at
tacked during the early morning, but in
no case was there any approach to a
mob riot. Strike smypatbizers on the
roofs of tenement houses bombarded
the trains with bottles and bricks, and
in one instance with pistol shots. None
of the bullets took effect, but several
passengers were cut by missiles and
broken gla^s. The police surrounded
the blocks from which the missiles
came and searched the roofs, but made
only a few arrests.
Rumors of a plot to blow up the sub
wav caused the police to maintain a
watch at every underground station,
but the subway trains ran during the
night and early morning without mo
lestation.
The strike thus far, according to Mr.
Waddell. has cost the traction company
$200,000.
? I
NO GERMAN ELECTIONS
DURING COURSE OF WAR
AMSTERDAM. September 8.?The Ta
glische Rundschau today announces
that the German government has de
cided that there shall be no general
election during the war. The reichs
tag on reassembling, the newspaper
adds, will pass a measure prolonging
its life until next January.
TWO MORE BRITISH SHIPS
ARE SENT TO THE BOTTOM
I/ONDON. September 8, 2 p.m.?The
British steamship Strathtay and the
Ellerman L?ir\e steamship Tagus have
been sunk. The crew of the Strathtay
was saved.
The Strathtay sailed from N*w York
August 22 for Havre. She was 370 feet
long, of 4,428 tons gross, and was
owned in Glasgow. While at her dock
in New York in July of 1915 an attempt
was made to destroy her, Are bombs
being foun.i concealed in the hold.
FINANCIERS BRING PRESSURE.
Desire Modification of British Cen
sorship for Handling U. S. Securities
Renewed pressure is being made by
New York financiers with European
connections for the modification of the
Htrict British censorship so aa to per
mit the free transmission of United
States securities between this country
and their correspondents in neutral
European countries.
The Secretary of State already has
mad*: representations to the British
authorities on the subject.
Aviator'* Fall Prove* Fatal.
BUFKAI.O. N. Y., September 8.?MaJ.
W. K. Campbell, a member of the Brit
ish Koyal Flying Corps. has died of In
juries received when his aeroplane dashed
to the ground from a height of 500 feet,
i Theodore de Kruljss of Free port. N. Y..
i a Harvard University student, who was
i a passenger with Campbell, was Injured
1 Internally, but will recover.
of "Sectionalism" With
Telling Effect.
SENATOR LODGE LEADING
ATTACK ON DEMOCRATS
' Administration leaders Realizing
Their Task Are Concentrating on
Re-?lecting Senator Johnson.
BY N. 0. MESSENGER.
PORTLAND, Me., September
8.?Breezing in from the Pacific
coast with the cinders of the
snowsheds and the alkali dust of
the plains scarcely out of his eyes.
The Star's correspondent will rub
them and look around a bit before
venturing into rash prophecy.
Rut at that, he can see well
enough to discern a very inter
esting political condition which
is hourly growing more dramatic.
The climax will come next Monday,
when Maine will elect two United
States senators, four representatives in
Congress, a governor and state ticket.
The presidential electors will be chosen
in the nation-wide election of Novem
ber 7. From Maine to California the
electorate, it is safe to say, is eagerly
awaiting the verdict, while the man
agers in each party and the leaders in
all states are painfully anxious over
the outcome, not only as a possible in
dication of the state of public senti
ment generally, but for the practical
effect Maine's action might have upon
j the doubtful voters elsewhere.
It is a real campaign that is being
waged here. Whatever apathy may have
existed in the earlier days, these clos
ing hours of the fight find the people
aroused to the issues and the fact that
the eyes of the country are upon them.
Moreover, they have had no chance to
remain apathetic, for political spell
binders have been haranguing them by
night and individual party workers be
sieging them by day.
Red Fire and Brass Bands.
It is an old-fashioned campaign with
red fire and brass bands and all that
sort of thing. Remember the old
torchlight procession, when th.? boys
turned out with flambeaux and their
oilcloth capes and helmets? That's it;
and they sing "Rally 'Round the Flag.
Boys."
Pretty soon It will be "Marching
Through Georgia" if the present trend
continues.
The republicans have unexpectedly in
jected a new issue into the campaign.
"All of a sudden" they sprung upon the
democrats what \he latter term "sec
tionalism." It is apparently making an
impression, and today the democrats
j are earnestly concerned over it.
The republicans are appealing to the
Independent element of the state for
support on the ground that retention
of the democratic party in power in the
executive and legislative branches of
the government means undue favorit
ism to the south, to the detriment of
the* interests of the north. Domination
of Congress by the southern democracy
is the basis of the contention, and espe
cially the control of the Senate by the
southern democrats through the me
dium of the caucus.
Say South Is Grabbing All.
Republican speakers of national
prominence are nightly driving into
their audiences the assertion that the
south is getting all the benefits of leg
islation while the north pays the bill;
j that southern products are protected by
j the tariff and Maine products left open
j to inroads from Canada. Senator Lodge,
? Senator Borah, Representative Long
worth, the colonel's son-in-law, and a
host of speakers are hammering away
on this line. They appeal to the pro
gressives to stand by the republican
party as a check on southern selfish
ness, and to help give a prospective re
publican President, as they view it, a
republican Congress.
Senator I^odge leads in the attack and
this is his argument:
"When we send from New England
democratic senators and congressmen,
they cease to stand for New England
interests, and follow blindly and obe
diently the dictates of the southern ma
jority.
"Having deliberately cut down the
tariff, not only to carry out their free
trade principles, but with the purpose
of substituting direct taxes, they then
framed their direct taxes in such a way
as to take nearly all the money from
the north and east. The total amount
raised by direct taxation by emergency
corporation income and individual in
come taxes for the past year is $209,
218,534. Four states of the north (Mas
sachusetts. New York, Pennsylvania
and Illinois) of these taxes paid $118,
001,090; that is. these four northern
states out of the forty-eight states paid
more than half of these direct taxes.
Ten southern states (Alabama, Arkan
sas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mis
sissippi, North Carolina, South Caro
lina. Tennessee and Virginia) paid $8,
602,000; that is about 4 per cent of the
entire tax.
"North Pays South's Bills."
I "The total wealth of the state of Mas
| saehusetts is $6,362,000,000. Massachu
! setts pays as a tax of $1 on every $625
j of wealth. The state of Alabama has a
total wealth of $2,127,000,000, about
one-third the wealth of Massachusetts.
Alabama pays $1 of tax on every $3,700.
If you will examine the bills for ex
penditures which might perfectly well
be postponed you will see that the
money raised from our part of the
country is spent very largely in the
i south."
Senator Ixxlge said that of the 100,000
1 national guardsmen at the border July
I 31 the southern states sent 2,000 men
I from Virginia and BOO from Louisiana,
and from Texas 3.000. "The rest of the
southern states had not a single man
at the border, while Massachusetts,
New York. Illinois and Pennsylvania
had 42,000 men, 42 per cent of all the
troops then present."
This line of argument is designed to
affect the senatorial and congressional
contests principally and with especial
regard to the senatorship. It is hoped
to at least gain the progressives to the
republican senatorial candidates If they
are Indifferent as to the progresslvism
of Hughes as compared with the pro
gresslvism of Wtlson.
Senator Johnson, asserted to be the
Vice President of the Free Trade
League of the United States. 1* crttl
* '
J
cised for voting with the southern dem
ocrats to take the duty off Ma4ne prod
ucts, such as potatoes, corn, milk and
eggs, buckwheat, rye, wheat, wool,
sheep, lumber, cattle and fresh fish,
while giving a protective tariff to the
southern products of rice, peanuts,
goat-hair, pineapples, oranges and to
olive oil, raisins and prunes.
Criticise Strike Legislation.
The republicans also' propose to I
else the democratic Congress and the;
President for the hasty action on the,
railroad strike. Mexico comes in for a
share of attention, but the main drive
now is on the issue of the "south in the
saddle" and "Maine under the hoof."
Probably it is generally understood
that this time the result in Maine is
to be decided by the men who fol
lowed Roosevelt in 1912. If any one
knew what proportion of progressives
will come back into the party the out
come could be foretold today. On the
popular vote for the presidency in 1912
Maine gave Wilson 51,113; Roosevelt,
48,493, and Taft, 26,545.
In the gubernatorial election of 1914,
when the progressives ran a candidate
for governor, the republican vote had
increased to 58,887, the democratic to
62,076 and the progressives had dimin
ished to 18,226. It is estimated that
one-third of the latter figures repre
sented democrats who this year have
returned to their own party.
The progressives abandoned proposed
tickets early this summer and split be
tween the republicans and democrats.
Three proposed progressive candidates
for representatives in Congress are
now supporting the democratic candi
dates. Some minor progressive leaders
are also campaigning for the demo
crats.
The progressive candidate for gov
ernor in 1914, however, Hal P. Gardner,
is actively working for the republican
ticket all down the line. Raymond
Robins, the celebrated Illinois pro
gressive, is in the state and urging, as
did Col. Roosevelt, his former pro
gressive colleagues to vote Tor repub
lican candidates.
Concentrate on Johnson.
In well posted democrratic circles the
belief is held by many that they will be
fortunate if they re-elect Senator John
son and Representative McGillicuddy,
while they hope?and it is mostly hoped
?that they can save their state ticket
also. From now on they will concen
trate on Johnson. I
In fair-minded republican circles It la !
admitted that unless the republicans
carry their state ticket by 10,000, Fred
Hale may lose the senatorship to John- i
son. They are confident of the election '
of Fernald, their candidate for the other
senatorship.
Conservative republican estimates
claim the governorship by 6,000 or
8,000, and admit that the closest con
gressional fight will be in the McGil
licuddy district. They are not alarmed
over the three other districts.
All eleventh hour estimates, however,
are held in suspension until after Mr.
Hughes' visit to the state, and the
whirlwind finish of the big group of
nationally prominent speakers, who
will hold forth the last three nights of
the week.
This in brief is a broad preliminary
view of the situation touching only on
the high spots, with details to be treat
ed in subsequent dispatches.
TO BUY MANILA RAILROAD.
Philippine Government's Purchase
Ratified by Governor General.
MANILA, September 8.?The sale of
the Manila railroad to the Philippine
government was ratified today, when
a contract was signed by Gov. Gen.
Francis Burton Harrison of the Philip
pines and President Higgins of the
railroad. Clyde A. Dewitt of the public
utilities commission now is in Wash
ington arranging the details of the
transfer.
The Manila railroad has been en
countering financial difficulties for sev
eral years, and was said to be facing a
probable receivership, which might
mean the loss of a considerable part
of the company's indebtedness to the
government, when an agreement was
reached last December for the acquisi
tion of the road by the Philippine ad
ministration. The agreement provides
that the government will receive all
of the capital stock of the company for
9MOO.OOO. k
Uncle Sam Teaches
Proper Selection of
Household Furnishings
The home should be
considered a factory for
the production of family
, comfort, say government
experts. Read this article
in The Sunday Star.
PRESIDENT FINDS TIME
10 COMMEND CONGRESS
Calls Recent Session a "Remarkable"
One, and Adroitly Meets Mr.
Hughes' Criticisms.
President Wilson found time today to
commend the work of Congress, which
had Just adjourned. In the same state
ment he adroitly met some of the critl^
cisms of Candidate Hughes of the re
publican party regarding the eight
hour law and the labor situation, by
promising to take up with the next
Congress some of the recommendations
he made regarding a law for investi
gating strikes before these industrial
disputes are allowed to reach the crisis.
In fact, most of his statement deals
with the necessity for new laws for the
settlement o? labor disputes.
President's Statement.
The statement of the President is as
follows:
"A very remarkable session of Con
gress has Just closed, full as all re
cent sessions of the Congress have been
of helpful and humane legislation which
constitutes contributions of capital im
portance to the defense, the economic
progress and the wholesome life of the
country.
"It is to be regretted that the session
could. not have been continued long
enough to complete the program re
cently projected with regard to the ac
commodations of labor disputes be
tween the railways and the employes,
but it was not feasible in the circum
stances to continue the session any
longer, and therefore only the most
Immediately pressing parts of the pro
gram could be completed. The rest, it
is agreed, has merely been postponed
until it can be more maturely delib
erated and perfected.
Expects Action by Leaders.
"I have every reason to believe that
it is the purpose of the leaders of the
two Houses, immediately upon the re
assembling of Congress, to undertake
DAY IN CONGRESS.
Meutet
Reassembled at 8 a.m. to await
the hour of adjournment.
Passed the homestead grazing
bill.
Adopted resolution for investi
gation of alleged lobby opposing
retaliatory provision in revenue
bill against Canadian fisheries
and calling for report at next ses
sion.
Senator Owen withdrew his
corrupt practices bill.
Passed bill creating a national
park In Alaska around Mount Mc
Kinley.
Adjourned sine die at 9:69 a.m.
Houses
Reassembled at 8:10 a.m.
Appropriations for session
were announced as $1,626,439,210.
Adjourned sine die at J.0 a.m.
$ ;
this additional legislation. It is evi
dent that the country should be reliev
ed of the anxiety which must have been
created by recent events with regard
to the future accommodation of such
disputes."
SIMPLICITY PREVAILS
AS HOUSE ADJOURNS
Baps Gavel Big Chamber
Is Empty.
If there was ever democratic simpli
city marking the ending of a session, it
prevailed today when Champ Clark,
Speaker, smacked the gavel to the desk
declaring the first session of the Sixty
fourth Congress adjourned sine die.
About 150 members were in their s;eats;
the galleries were but half filled. Rep
resentative Gillett of Massachusetts had
just finished his annual excoriation of the
democratic appropriations, and three or
four members arose to ask leave to print
their remarks in the Congressional
Record.
Champ Clark had his broad-brimrAed
fawn-colored hat on the Speaker's desk
beside him. As the hands of the clock
touched 10 he raised the gavel and said
in a loud voice:
"The hour of 10 having arrived. I now
declare the first session of the ??ixty
fourth Congress to be adjourned without
date." TTien he rapped the gavel and de
scended from the rostrum, while a volley
of cheej-s greeted the announcement. In
two minutes the House was empty.
CASE GOES TO GRAND JURY.
Mrs. Iva Barnes of Chicago Accused
of Killing: Husband.
CHICAGO, September 8.?Indictment of
Mrs. Iva Barnes on the charge of mur
dering her husband. James R. Barnes,
local representative of a New York firm,
in Washington Park last Tuesday night, |
will be sought before the county grand j
jury.
Representative women erf Chicago are
preparing a petition to State's Attorney
Hoyne, requesting that ire appoint a spe
cial woman prosecutor to try Mrs. Barnes
if she is brought to trial. Mrs. Catherine
Waugh McCulloch, noted suffragist and a
member of the legal profession, declared
she might volunteer her services in Mrs.
Barnes' case. She also said she would i
like to see the jury made up, half of \
| women and the other half of men. I
A chain of "not guilty" cerdicts since
1907 has freed nearly twenty women ac
cused of murder.
The body of Barnes was sent last night
to Warner, N. Y., for burial.'
COL. ROOSEVELT IN FILMS.
Will Pose With Prominent Party
Men in Campaign Pictures.
NEW YORK, September 8.?Theodore
Roosevelt, according to information from
the republican national headquarters to
day, has been asked to take a more active
part in the Hughes campaigns, and has
consented to a considerable addition to
the number of speeches already arranged
for him.
. The colonel's part in the campaign was
discussed at a conference afe, Oyster Bay
yesterday, and again today, when a num
ber" of republican leaders went to Mr.
Roosevelt's home to figure with him in a
series of moving pictures. These pictures
will show the colonel shaking hands and
conversing with several prominent re
publicans and progressives.
The films will be sent to each state
organization for use at political meetings.
Opposes Guardian of Wealthy Heir.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., September 9.?
Appeal from the decision of the county
court appointing E. O. Cord, guardian
of Geronlmo Trevtno, Jr., principal heir
to more than $15,000,000 left by the late
Gen. Geronlmo Trevlno, via filed In
the seventy-third district court here
yesterday by Mrs. Guadalupe Zambrano
Trevlno, widow of the general. The
estate, located largely in Arlsona and
Mexico, Is estimated at (15,000,000 to
I2i.000.000.
?' ,-vjv -.i . V . -? . ...J, v ?
D. C. LEGISLATION
IN PAST SESSION
Half-and-Half Principle Re
tained After a Hard
Fight.
FISCAL ESTIMATE CUT
DOWN TO $11,894,387
Measures to Improve Living Condi
tions of Wage Earners in Wash
ington Are Still Pending.
The half-and-half principle of appro
priations for the District of Columbia
has been retained in the appropriation
act covering the present .-fiscal year.
This Is the most important fact con
nected with the legislation and appro
priations of the session of Congress Just
closed, as afTecting the District of Co
lumbia.
For weeks, while the bill was In prep
aration in ,the House committee, and
later when the appropriation bill pass
ed the lower body without the usual
half-and-half clause, there was Immi
nent danger that the National Capital
would be left without the support of
the federal government vouchsafed to
it in the organic act of 1876.
However, after the half ajid half was
restored in the Senate the House finally
yielded, but with the restoration wa?
enacted provision for the taxation of
intangible personal property?a pro
vision which was made into law with
out a hearing and without study.
Fight for Half-and-Half.
The first session of the Sixty-fourth
Congress opened with the District
awaiting with Interest the report of the
Joint select committee of Congress
which had been appointed by the pre
vious Congress to study into the finan
cial relation between the United States
and the District of Columbia- The re
port was made January 6. It did not
specifically recommend that the half
and-half principle be retained in ap
proprlation bills, but at the same time
upheH the main contention of the Dis
trict of Columbia that the National
Capital is not undertaxed.
"Our unanimous conclusion,' says tne
report, "is that the rate of taxation in
the District should be fixed and certain;
that the Congress should pursue a defi
nite policy of regular and liberal ap
propriations. having in view not only
the permanent moral and physical ad
vancement of the city, but also the pre
eminent heauty and grandeur as the
municipal expression of the nations
home and its people's pride."
The cdmmlttee recommended an in
heritance tax for the District of Co
lumbia also, but no legislation carrj Ing
out the recommendations of the. com
mittee has been Introduced into Con
gress. Senator Works, a member ol
the committee, submitted a minority
report and introduced a bill in th?
Senate carrying out his idea that the
District of Columbia should be changed
from a municipality to a bureau of the
federal government and operated as
such.
Commissioners' Estimate Cut.
The Commissioners' estimates asked for
$15,182,196. and recommended numerous
new items of legislation, much of which
was in pursuance of a proposed policy
to centralize many municipal functions in
the hands of the board of Commissioners.
The appropriation bill, as reported, carried
but J11.S94.737 and none of the legisla
tion. When it passed the Senate it car
ried $13,634,502.96.
By an amendment to the appropriation
bill the Senate fixed the price of gas at
75 cents for Washington and 85 cents
for Georgetown, and carried provision for
a firemen and police pension fund.
The Senate took an active part In Dis
trict legislation of much importance dur
ing the session Just closed.
Work of Senate Committee.
The Senate District committee worked
long and hard over a number of bills of
the very greatest Importance to the Dis
trict. and a number of these measures are
on the Senate calendar and ready to be
taken up for consideration when t'ongress
meets next Decei?l>er. One of these bills
is the Sheppard bill, providing for pro
hibition In the District of Columbia, which
was reported to the Senate from the com
mittee. "without recommendation." early
in the session, and failed to come up for
action because of the press of general
legislation. Other bills reported to the
Senate, and now on the calendar, include
the Works' bill for the closing of barber
shops in the District Sunday; the Smith
bill to regulate the practice of podiatry in
the District; the House bill to prevent the
desecration of mutilation of the flag of the
United States; the House bill amending
the law relating to the establishment of
the Juvenile Court of the District; the
Polndexter bill providing for the election
of a delegate to the House to represent
the District, and the Hollls bill to provide
for the use of public school buildings as
community forums.
The Senate District committee held a
number of hearings on various bills, In
cluding a bill for the sanitary wrap
ping of bread, a bill to amend the loan
shark law by permitting the money
lenders to charge 2 per cent a month
instead of 1 per cent, a bill to take over
the Kllngle Ford Valley tract for park
purposes, a bill to provide for the pay
ment of assessments of benefits for the
opening of streets In the District when
the streets are actually opened.
The Senate District committee held
hearings on the nomination of Gen.
Robert G. Smith to succeed himself as a
member of the excise board of the Dis
trict and reported unfavorably on the
nomination to the Senate, which reject
ed the nomination. The nomination of
Henry S. Maker as a member of the ex
cise board was still pending before the
committee when Congress adjourned.
D. C. Bills Pending.
Among the District bills of interest
still before the Senate committee and
unacted upon are the following:
A bill to provide for the construction
of sanitary dwelling houses for the
poor, by Senator Works.
A bill for the development of the
water power at Great Falls Jo supply
Washington with light and power, by
Senator Norrls.
Prohibition bills, by Senator Jones
and Senator Thompson.
A Joint resolution to amend the Con
.?itution'of the United States so as to
nermit the residents of the District to
vote for presidential and vice presidential
electors and to elect senators and rep
resentatives to Congress, by Senator
Clablblirto provide for the erection of
sanitary dwellings, by Senator Porn
TbUl to abolish capital punishment
in the Dlstrlet, bjr SenatorJUPolJette.
A. bill to establish a basis for eom
(Continued on Seoond Pajg.) ""
CONGRESS FINISHES
ITS FERST SESSION
President Gobs to Capitol at
Closing Hour and
Signs Bills.
AMONG ACTS APPROVED
IS REVENUE MEASURE
Senate Completes Work After Long
Night Session?Members Con
gratulate Speaker.
The first session of the Sixty
fourth Congress came to an end
at 10 o'clock this morning, after
breaking many legislative records
and appropriating and authorizing
expenditures well on toward the
two-billion mark.
In the closing moment? the President
went to the Capitol, where he signed
several bills which passed late last
night or early today. Among: them was
the revenue measure, completed lsst
nijHjt. He also signed the deficiency
appropriation bill, which contains items
of great interest to the District of Co
lumbia, and also the "fake auction" bill.
He signed the revenue bill In the pres
ence of Senator Simmons, chairman of
the Senate finance committee, and Rep
resentative Rainey of Illinois of the
House ways and means committee, who
drafted the tariff board provisions of
the act. The President held a reception
in his room in the Senate wing of the
Capitol. He shook hands with many
members of each house, and congratu
lated Senator Simmons on the passage
of the revenue measure.
Senate Has Long- Session.
The Senate completed its labors by a
long night session and an early start
today, beginning at 8 o'clock. Before
the "Vice President's gavel tapped .the
adjourning hour the Senate adopted
the resolution of Senator Curtis of
Kansas, directing the famous Senate
lobby committee to investigate the
activities of the alleged foreign lobby
opposing a retaliatory provision of the
revenue measure against Canadian fish
eries.
The Senate also passed the Keating
1 resolution directing a federal investi
gation of the cost of living in the Dis
trict of Columbia. The resolution,
. amended slightly, was sent back to
. the House for a conference, but 10
1 o'clock, the adjourning hour, arrived
. before it could be reached. Proponents
? of the resolution said that it would be
; effective early in the second session.
, The delay which had hovered like a
' dark cloud, because of Senator Owen's
L Insistence in attempting to pass the
"corrupt practices" bill, vanished. Sen
| ator Owen announced his Intention to
desist in his efforts to pass the bill,
and blamed the republican side for
dilatory tactics which made it neces
sary to withdraw the bill from con
, sideration at present. He predicted an
early passage of the bill in the coming
1 session.
House Has Little to Do.
In the House there was little to do,
while waiting for the adjourning hour
to arrive. The members gathered at
8:30 o'clock and listened to congratu
lations to the Speaker and to the ma
jority leader. Representative Kitchin,
from the lips of Representative Mann,
the minority leader. In turn Repre
sentative, Mann was boomed for the
speakership in the next House by Rep
resentative Moore of Pennsylvania.
Representative Harrison of Mississippi
in a political speech anwered some of
the charges of Representative Roden
berry of Illinois in the matter of am
munition shipped to Mexico. Repre
sentative Fitzgerald and Representa
tive Gillett, chairman and ranking mi
nority member, respectively, of the ap
propriations committee analyzed tfce
enormous appropriations of the year,
each one taking opposite views for
purely political reasons.
The Senate was dignified In closing
its deliberations, and the House sim
ple and extremely informal.
Last night both houses accepted the
conference report on the emergency
revenue bill without record votes, and
the Senate, before recessing, an hour
after midnight, ratified the Danish West
Indies purchase treaty. The general
deficiencies appropriation bill also was
approved as reported by conferees. To
day's session was necessitated only by
need for time to reprint the measure In
the proper form to be signed. Conferees
reached an agreement on the Mil early
in the evening after spending two days
on it.
The report was attacked by Senators
Chamberlain and Jones, hecau.-e the
amendment for retaliation against
Canadian control of Pacific coast fisher
ies had been stricken out. In the
House Representative Gardner de
nounced the retaliatory provision
against foreign interference with
j American commerce.
Investigation Ordered
of the Alleged Lobby
by Canadian Officials
When the Senate assembled at ?
o'clock this morning only seven sena
tors were in their seats, sleepy and
weary after the long session of yester
day, which lasted until long after mid
night. ,A dozen more senators filed
into the chamber soon afterward.
Senator Lewis attempted to have
passed a bill which would pension the
widows of veterans of the Spanish war
and the hostilities in the Philippine
Islands. Objection was made, however,
by Senator Smith of Georgia.
Senator Owen addressed the Senate
on the corrupt practices bill, which he
had attempted to have passed by the
Senate many times in the last few
days. He said that Jie was deeply
j disappointed at the failure of the Sen
ate to act on tht- measure, and charged
that opposition of the republican lead
ers in the Senate had been responsible
for this failure.
Senator Curtis Offers Resolution.
A resolution was offered by Senator
Curtis of Kansas, providing for an in
vestigation by a special committee of
the SenSte into charges made on the
floor of the Senate last night by Sena
tor Chamberlain of Oregon that offi
cials of the Canadian government had
been in Washington lobbying ^
against w
%
