Tl? I N A N CI AL ' E D I T I O N
AV-MS
rw
NIGHT
EXTRA
uenina
Ilrtrger
vol. h.-jsto. ops
EUTONS BEGIN -
EVACUATION OF
HALICZ FORTS
r -n in a q A n sfri n n R.
Iff UC1'"UI .v,.w..
l Turks and Russians .
in Battle
I&RGE PART OF CITY
J, "WRECKED BY SHELLS
Mi
h .
1'Czar s Forces Advance
a Steadily in Carpathians
Toward Hungary
ffiULGARS ROUT ENEMY
flr fnlttvn TTmiv Triwrio florinnna
VAiVUib v,m AVikj - ...-..;
Push Big Drive on
Bucharest -
PHttiADISLPUIA, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 101G
Constant, 1010, st tni rcauo I.trwra Courixt.
jCTiwMiiriiiii
EVANS LEADS CORKRAN IN SEMIFINAL
WiK'SSKSJaWBBJfflifST'lKB
y55Jjyj.." in
V
Petrograd reports that the Austrians
h&vr- hpmin to evacuate the fortified
tfw nf Hnliez. nt the functions of thn
. til ." l ,
r Dniester ana me unna jjipa tuvers.
' tho fortress, which is under the firo of
the Ciar's artillery, may be expected
i, at nny moment. (Troops of four nations,
Germans, Austrians, Turks and Rus
, Hans, are engaged in the battle around
Halicz.
The German-Bulgar drive against
Bucharest, capital of Rumania, Is
progressing,, according to tho German
' War Office. The Teutons and their
allies arc endeavoring to cross the
Danube for a drive northward. Great
' jubilation reigns in Berlin as a result
. 'Bucharest. The capture of four Ru
manian townsj, Dabsie, Balchik, Ca
Tarna and Kaliakpa, is reported by
i Sofia.
, On the west front four attacks in
dense formations' were launched by the
Germans south of the Somme last night
i. oeiwecn vermanaoviucrs and Chaulnes.
,7..ono ot the attacks succeeded in reach
ing any i?rencn positions, and tho
French, took 200 rrioro prisoners, the
wwiea-iyat oiiicof announced to,day.
rjne uerraans attacked heavily
?ainst new French nositiona Between
Ijsfny, and a point south of Chaulnes,"
ywg ncavy losses, worth ot the
sime there was ereat artillerv"
KfWftty, "ut no infantry fighting.
The Italian have reDulsed a violent
"Austrian jittnMt on Tieif Mnnla rii,.,-
i ., , - .. -
le position, in Val Sugana, and havo
irraca an Austrian trencii on the
'ana Mountains.
Hrr" - - -.
(sssssssssbsbJL dfssssBntoavS- 9k 5,Aai & 3- 'vJSsf? 4st-.vf iisii) i 'jk "" ! & J bsLbbk ?? K vlLTsZi
i ' Lssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssh - .ssssssssssssssssssssebsf''k jt. . aLssssssssssLssssssssssa skRkt v jwt jssssssssssssssm t l LbVi bsssssssssssy v sssHk sss :
nB y ' J 'Kiss '"ssssssssssBF&sinsyssssssssssssssssssPsssssssssssss: assasssnk Ift. r jJkBssMSa1 g
Kfc?IIPIx--BBBBBBHr ... af. ...ssssssssssTBlBSMssssssssssssssssMWjaTssssssssssB ssslfBBBB BBMBaiaBBBBBBBBBBSfc-vi'
isssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssflss!Ms5B?yK! b TBwSiiB-- Lsssssssssk ssssssssssflPwH
fc-- i . . . ,.". " ' - i
QUICK NEWS
PHILLIES, 1st G.. 0 0 0 1,1 0 0 0
NEW YORK 2000S0H
Out
at the Mcrion Golf Club course at Haverford the Chicago champion is shown in his contest with
Corkran, of Baltimore, in the semifinal round of tho nationnl championship tournament.
Clarko
PARTISAN MOTION
BEATEN BY VOTES
OF SUFFRAGISTS
Resolution Favors Candi
dates Pledged to Anthony
Amendment
CONSTRUED FOR HUGHES
Wilson Coming, Suffragists
Down Hughes Resolution
W3Y excitement broke out in tho
convention ot the National
American Woman Suffrage Party
today:
Mrs. Raymond Robins, of Chicago,
introduced resolution favoring
Hughes for President of the United
States.
With President Wilson's 'visit and
address beforo the convention only
B' matter Or hours distant, opponents
of stbe .resolution sprarig,ti"thefr feet
to denounce it.
Dr. Anna Howard Shaw pro
nounced if 'lanti-Wilsom','
Two " hours of ' heated debate
followed. .
Tho resolution was crushingly
defeated.
SftlSTRIANS REPORTED TO HAVE
pEGUN EVACUATION OP HALICZ;
' Tnwxr Timrcni.'rr rtv oiinim
Autiii ivivniiriciLf ui an&LiijS
5 PETIlOCinAD, Sept. 8.,- It Is reported
tr mat tno Austro-lluntarian troops
sfendlng Halicz In Oallcla Have begun to
'acu&te thn rltv. Th iiroat.- na
allci that has not been wrecked by the
or the Russian artillery has been
irned.
" Thfl'. Tlllnn lln r h Jll.l.. m
nallez la hif hv a .. tr.. i ..
man and Turkish troops and there lias been
Moody nghtlnjf In that district.
. .More prisoners' have beert captured by
the HUHBlnnn if. nollln nj .'
t ?.!? are be'nK Indicted upon the German
nies.
. In the Carpathians the Russians are ad-
U t?,I "wthpdlcally from height to height
In the wooded district.
.'! LM been announced oradally today
J?, ,he Russian offensive In Oallcla con-
Ji..! BUCC"fuy despite, tho stubborn
resistance ot the. German allies.
Inivlri?an, co.u"ter-attacka on the Dvlna and
w yolhynla have been repulsed.
The war office Issued the following state-
nt on operations today: .
Oerman counter-attacks against our
Positions on the western bank of the
tn WVW. A" attack In the
region of Velltsk, In the direction of
Kovel, was also repulsed, On the Onlla
fj..r!ivr .'" aall:la ou- offensive con
tinues despite the stubborn resistance of
th! hXUK. w? 'bombarding us from
" right bnk of the river.
w.m caa..ul front; In the direction of
"hl and Ognot there, trflerco fighting.-
,ftANS REPORT GAINS
N RU3IANIAN FRONT; ADMIT
i' , BUSSES IN SOMME FIGHTING
uSlu' S?.pt ?"" Qrmah8 have
auto ?ction' te th French In fighting
So7rtLth8 .Bomme weBt Be-ny arid
fJo;Mtheast of Souvllle. on the Verdun
m U wbji oniclally admitted This It?.
1v,L".nJwlcl 1iuman(an troops have been
?yn back north nf iha num-ni.. ;X?jV1
MUs after the rnuii nf .r"'rt,u.r"."1
k against Dobric the nm-TirSZ:
nautj, i t - ";: iw
'sw)1 "'K Ctal report follows;
U Western fpnt--North of the Sommi
ITi
CoBtlnned q Tsse Hte. Column Twe
'.-THE VEATHER
- '1 ' I I I 1 I I M
Fnniur.AfiT .
Kor Philadelphia and Dltxnity-r-Thun-
"""vf mm afternoon or ,to.
M, MlowedbtieooUf.' .r1j., ,1
. pooler; tMierttU southerly winds
mmy yvtaicny.
I.KNOTH OF PAY v
seu,'"': 53i5.-Z.-HEa ZZtl-'l K-
BsXAWARir HIVKK TJBK CHANOIW
l.niiBlJIIIT MTSJB.PP
wmxwr , oao ft.aa
UritXOMft.ni,
iIKXiUr::, S5:
TKHPXKATVRK At HACM HftUM
IltSig
ATLANTIC CITT, Sept S. The Na
tional American Woman's ' Suffrage Asso
ciation In .convention here was shaken to
Its foundations today by a debate which
followed the Introduction of a resolution
by Mrs. Raymond Robins, of Chicago. This
resolution would have virtually pledged
the support ot the convention to Charles
Evans Hughes for President.
The debate went on for almost two hours,
with charges of antl-Wilsonlsm being
hurled at the backers ot the resolution
and charges of what virtually amounted
to anti-suffrage being hurled at the' oppo
nents of the resolution.
When the vote finally came, at 1 o'clock,
the resolution was decisively defeated,
though the debate at one time indicated
a chance of success.
The resolution provided that the dele
gates in the convention urged suffragists
of America to support for national-office
in the coming campaign' only those candi
dates who pledge their .support to the
Susan R. Anthony amendment.
This was plainly coming out" tor Mr.
Hughes, for he h'aa already expressed his
favor for the Federal amendment, while
GARDNER AND EVANS
LEADING AT END OF
THE FIRST 18 HOLES
Amateur Champion Is 4 Up on
Guilford and National Open
King Tops Corkran
by 3 Up
LARGE GALLERY ATTENDS
Morning Round Cards
GAnDNEK-GUILFOKD MATCH
Gardner
Oat 4 ft
In 4 4
Oullford
Out 4 S
In 4 4
Gardner 4 up.
a 4 3a
4 7 SO 17
4 4-Ul
4 4 3 70
EVANS-CORKRAX 5IATCII
Kran
Oat 5 A ft 4 ft
In ......... 4 4 S 3 S
Cerkran
Dot 8
4 4 4 3 10
4 4 3 fi 3717
In 4
Etans S up.
A R 3 4 543
3 8 8 4 4 3K SI
K
Continued en rate Fear. Column One
By SANDY McNIBLICK
MERION CRICKET CLUB, HAVEIt
FORD, Pa.. ept S Jess" Guilford, touted,
as the longest solt ball walloper In the
world, was outslugged time and again by
the American champion. Bob Gardner, de
fending his title in the semifinal round here
today of the United States amateur golf
championship. An enormous throng packed
at the heels of this pair, and Gardner fin
ished the first eighteen holes 4 up on Gull
ford, Gardner pulled his drive to the home hole
of the first half Into the woods.. From the
ambush of bushes and trees he. failed to get
his drive out It landed in a pile of hay.
Rather than move the hay, he tried to
lay. His ball got lost fit the haystack and
'he conceded the hole to Guilford, who had
strung out his drive nearly 360 yards
down the slopei It was one of his longest
wallops. Guilford smashed one 340 yards
to the? fourth hole.
The moving field of more than 3000 fans
thundered with Joy whenever the Now
Hampshire farmer lad really laid his giant
frame Into hts tee shot. They liked to seel
tins iar-ramea wauoper nnisn behind a pin
dot carry far Into the gloaming. .
Chick Evans, United States open cham
pion, had his hands full with D. Clarke
Corkran, Baltimore machine and last hope
of Dixie Land, Chick waa 3 up at the end
of 18 holes. Chick was la his most no
torious of putting moods. America's "eras-,
lest putter" sank them in turn from wild
corners of the green and then. missed them
front six Inches' range, Ho misled the
simplest of his life, almost o,n the home
hole, to the delight of the morbid watchers,
when he failed to bottle a twenty-Inch roller
CONGRESS CLOSES
ITS LONG SESSION;
WILL MEET DEC. 4
Rush to Get Away to Polit
ical Battles Follows
Adjournment
PRESIDENT SIGNS BILLS
Continued on rase Twe, Column Two
WASHINGTON, Sept 8. Tho first ses
sion of the Sixty-fourth Congress cama to an
end at 10:02 today. The most momentous
session of any Congress for a generation
closed as President Wilson signed tho Ad
ministration $200,000,000 revenuo bill, last
of a long scries of Important measures
which have occupied the attention ot the
nine months' sitting.
Ten o'clock this morning was fixed as the
hour of adjournment by a Joint resolution
adopted by both House and Senate, and
tho fall of the gavels of Vice President
Marshal and Sneaker Clark dissolved JCpn
gr'eW until -TJccerfiber 4, The drop, of tife
gavels was a signal for a general scramble
to get away from Washington, and Senators
and Representatives hurried, to get into the
political campaign.
PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT
Immediately after adjournment the Pres
ident Issued the following statement:
A verv remnrknhlA itpnalnn nf con
gress has Just closed, full, as all recent
sessions of the Congress have been, of
helpful and humane legislation which
constitute contributions of capital Im
portance to the defense, tho economic
. progress and the wholesome llfo of the
country.
It Is to be regretted that the session
could not have been continued long
enough to complete the program re
cently projected with regard to tho ac
commodation of labor disputes between
the railways and the employes, but It
was not. feasible In the circumstances
to continue the session any longer, and
therefore only the most Immediately
pressing parts of, tho program could
be completed. The rest. It Is agreed,
have merely been postponed until it
can be more maturely deliberated and
perfected, r have every reason to be
lieve It Is the purpose of the leaders
of the twtf houses Immediately on the
reassembling of Congress to undertake
this additional legislation, u ts ev:
dent that the country should be relieved
of the anxiety which must have been
created by recent events with regard
to the future accommodation of such
disputes.
In his roorn in the Senate wing, the Presi
dent at OilB began signing the bills await
ing his signature. Senators Simmons and
Hughes were with him as he sgned at 9:30
Alexander, vOaoJtgr, KHUfor; Twrwiu, Hrim. ,Klcni nnd Entsllc.
i - i
NATIONAL LEAGUE
BROOKLYN lf1 0 0 111 V -V
BOSTON, 1st E...-..0 OOIOOO
rf offer and Jj' Meyers; Tylor nnd Gow'dy,
V- :v
RAINTRE VENTS ATHLETICS' GAME v
'. ..
.Today's tlown)our.mado It Imposflble for the Athletics nnd New
York Yrinke to meet this afternoon at Shibe Tafk as scheduled.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Hist Belmont race, 2-yoar-olds, handtcniv 6 furlonfi-s Yankee
Witch; 121, Schuttlngor, G to 1, 3 to 2, 3 o 5, won; Milkman, 115,
J. McTnggnrt, 2 to',1, 7 to 10, 1 to 4, second; Harvest Kin&, 112,
HaynM, 0 to 2, 4 to '5, 1 to 3, third. Time, 1.12 1-5.
Tlrst Montreal race, purse $500,' 3-yenv-olds and. up,- foaled In
Canada, selling, 7 furlongs Exiher, 'j07, XMcXenzie, $0.30, $5.10,
$3,00, woiij Irish Heart, 112, Fturiugton, $8.80, $Q.C0, secondjUiiUb.
leen H., 107, Metdnlf, $3.20;, third! . Tiine, 1.32 1-5.
..-- '. ' :
RUSSIANS" TAKE OFFENSIVE IN RUMANIA
LONDON, .Sept. 8. The Russians Jiavo taken tho offensive
against the Germans and Bulgarians all along the line" in Dobrudja
province, says a Homo wireless dispatch, and a great, battle is raging
on a -lCO-milo front,' ?
. X
- VA.
ALLIES' PLANES SHELL AERODROME NEAR GHENT
LONDON, Sept. 8. An air attack agaiust the Oerman aero
drome at St.DeulE-Westrem, fivo miles from Ghent, was reported by
the Admiralty today. One British aoroplane failed to .return.
Continued on Ta Two, Column Four
ERRORS MINGLED WITH
CLEAN IIITSEijrT ALEX
IN-THE FIRST fiATfLE
Stock, UieriofT and Luderus
Make Miscues'.That,Result in
' Scoring tho Great Hit
Hard
BANCROFT BANGS HOMER
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
POLO GROUNDS, NEW YQItKr Sept.
, Alexander was very Ineffective 4galnt
the' OlanU In the first game of -today's
double-header, tfot only that, but the Phil
lies fielded miserably, ably assisting Alex
In Joslng the contest
Tesreau was on (ha Mound for New
York. "
PIRS.T INNING,
Holke made .a sensational gloved hand
catch of Fletcher's throw and Paskert
was -out Zimmerman threw out Nlehoff.
Burns made a great catch of. 'Stock's long
drive. No rurif, no' hits, ;ro errors. .
Burns fanned. Herteg (ned a single, to
right Robertson al, singled to. right and
when Cravath fumbled the ball Hersog
reaebed third and.Hebertaon seoondi ztm
merman '" im f Luerua. Fleiotw
smashed trHtf WMlle'a head, aeor
lng HW as4 Robertse. KauR fouled
to l.uderu. ' Two' nuts, tfcrrfe, hits, one
error. ' i
SBCOND INNING
cravam jw r, iih wgiea to
jttr. LmUrue Wt !, a astride play," 31m,
- tj Murux U JfaMta. Ma ruu Am
Itlt ftft errors. ''
Malt sluM to Qir, II&rMaa hat lata.
SHOWERS AND WIND
BREAK DAY'S HEAT
Weather Bureau's Promises Ful
' filled When Rain Brings
' Relief to Qity
Promises of the Weather Bureau were
fulfilled this afternoon when heavy showers,
were ushered In with a thlrty-flve-mlles-an-hour
wind. During the shower the wind
blew blew twenty miles an hour. From 1 to
3 o'clock, Just before and during the shower
the thermometer registered a drop of E de
gress. It was 9! at 1 o'clock, 91 at 2 and
87 at S.
Intermittent showers for the afternoon
and evealng were phophesled by the weather
bureau. Weather -conditions will remain
cool tonight and tomorrow, with probably a
decline of twelve degrees in t emperature
tonight
Clouds hung over most of ihe, Atlantic
coast states today and showers fell many
plaeea. Fair and cool weather obtained
throughout the Ohio valley, Indiana and
Illinois.
Rurlng the first thunderstorm what ap
peared to be snow whirled over the central
section of the city. The Waather Bureau
said it could not be. It was explained that
prUp papers -were being burned in tha
fuHwoea of seme office building and the.
strong wind whirled them about like a stage
www storm.
Hlgto tnpratre were regMerH tktt
rami, a maximum of 9 Jww havfe
tefk refrtaa U 11 o'eloek. T)u wlnhvmM
wa ft aiarm, NiUr4 at t 'iaok.
GIRL WHO RECOVERED
FROM PLAGUE OFFERS
BLOOD TO AID OTHERS
.Child Offers Aid in Letter to
Doctor Dixon Was Paraly
sis Victim When 3
y ears-old '
OTHERS VOLUNTEER HELP
An rfer of blood for serum for the
treatment of Infantile paralysis was made
by a fifteen-year-old girl to Dr. Samuel G.
Dixon, State Health 'Commissioner, today,
in Tespon.se Mo an urgent appeal by the
health authorities.
The girl, Oladys Christine Douglas, had
the disease when she waa three years old,
Bhe Is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank
Douglas, of 2847'Gerritt street. Her let
ter was one of two received' today by
Doctor"Dlxon, who withheld the name of
the other volunteer.
Gladys Deuclas's letter reads aa follows:
The" glrl'a tetter reads aa follows:
'Dear Doctor Dixon I read In the papers
today pf Dr, .0, Y. White call for im
munlxlng utrum. and I wrte to tell ou that
T had Infantile paralysis when I was three
yeare old. (and I am now IE)' and was
curedjby Doctor Bronaon, of Rosemont, I
lived at Radnor at the -.tme, ' Mrs, D(xon
waa vary kln4 to my little alate Hlta. -who
died 1 y Mawr Hospital, and she
will renumber hm.
"As I sjo fully developed an m-feedy
health Pad4y an. 1 thought tWTlf uy
EXPLORING ENSIGN REPORTS "CROCKER LAND" A MYTH
WASHINGTON. Sept. 8. Ensgn Fltzhugh Green, who went on the MacMlllan
"Crocker land" expedlion this afternoon made his first official report on the trip
to the Navy Department,, statins that the expedition had proved there was no
"Crocker Land." A complete written report will Jater be made to Secretary of the
Navy Daniels. ,
P. R. R. SUBSIDIARY LINES MERGER APPROVED
HARniSBURG, Sept. 8. Merger of the Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washing
ton, the Philadelphia, Baltimore and Central, the Elkton and Middletown and the
Columbia and Port Depost Railroad' Companies was approved today by the Public
Service Commlsson. The application was made by the Philadelphia, Baltimore and
WnsMngton Company for the consolidation several months ago and had since
been under consideration by the Public Service Commission. All tho lines are
subsidiaries of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company. The capital stock of the
meiKer is $29,900,460.
U. S. CARES FOR RUMANIAN INTERESTS IN TURKEY
CONSTANTINOPLE. Sept. 8. The United States Embassy has taken over
tho protection of Rumanian interests in Turkey and will look after them during
tho course of the war.
INDEPENDENTS MEET STANDARD'S CUT IN GASOLINE
CHICAGO, Sept. 8. The Texaa Company and other independent oil concerns
have met the Standard, Oil Company of Indiana's one cent reduction In gasoline
throughout the West by making Chicago tank wagon basis sixteen and a half
fcinti a. gallon. Texaa Company's naphtha price remains unchanged at alxteen and
a half cents
M Tt ,- 94eW,Mlr
BRITISH LqSE TWO MORE' STEAMSHIPS
LONDON, Sept. 8-The Ellerman liner Tagus, 987 tons, has been sunk. The
British steamship Strathoy has been sunk; all members of the crew were saved.
-.-- .
HUNDREDS SEE WOMAN SWALLOW POISON AT TERMINAL
Mrs. Elizabeth Sleslik. 25, years old, of 410 Wellington avenue, Haddonfleld,
N. J., wallowed several poison tablets In the waiting room of the Reading Ter
minal today while hundreds of persona looked ,on In amazement ' She was re
moved to the Jefferson Hospital. Jler condition la. considered serious. She told the
pollco she wanted to die because her husband left her following a quarrel last night
SEVENTY-FIVE KILLED BY ALLIES' AVIATORS IN AUGUST
BERLIN, Sept 8.'PurlnB August the Allies' artillery and aviators killed
thirty-one men, twenty-seven women and seventeen children in Belgian and French
territory held by the Germans.
FOURTEEN GUARD REGIMENTS TO BE MUSTERED OUT,
WASHINGTON, Sept. 8. The War Department, today issued . the following
revised list of troops to be mustered out of the Federal service: Third, Fourteenth
and Seventy.flrs New York Infantry; brigade headquarters and rirst and Fourth
New Jersey Infantry; Fourth Maryland Infantry; First and.Seapnd Illinois In
fantry; First and Third Missouri Infantry; Fifth California Infantry: Third Oregon
Infantry; Second Washington Infantry) First Louisiana Infantry.,
BERLIN HEARS OF BLOODY OUTBREAK IN MOSCOW
'BERLIN, Sept. 8,Ths Overseas, News Agency quotes the Stockholm DagsWad
as rsWMng a bloody outbreak at Moscow In which a he number of person
were VUW4 or wounded. A crowd surrounding a train pf Russian wounds pro
tests acalnst ths lack of, ears beinc shown tits rosn, Trooj wo r4r4 U flrs
on the orowd but rsfussd, a4 tfe BuJa polio waio ttisrtmmn orders in
oitas. slwurslng U WhL 7"".
b
A
4$
NIGHT
EXTRA
ritiou onjej ojmsnr
'DOPE FIENDS'
USE DOCTORS
TO GET DRUGS
Handful of Unscrupulous
Physicians Evades Fed
eral Statute
DRUGGISTS BREAK LAW
Peddlers Supplied by Smuggling
Syndicate Sell 'Goods' on
the Streets
ARTICLE IV
The preceding article on the menacing
tprtad of the narcotic drug" evil have dealt
ivUh Ut general effect!, the crippling of the
Harrison net by court decltlom, the emug
gltng o "dope" In greet Quantifies info the
city by a criminal syndicate and the degra
dation of young men and women by Ten
derloin dwellers co-optratlng with this vn
dlcate. Today' article reveals the danger
from untcrtipulons doctors and show n
need of more drastio regulation of drug
dispensing. The inquiry by the livening
Ledger was, undertaken at the request of
Dr. Horatio O. Wood, Jr., and with the ac
tive co-operation of United Btatet District
Attorney Kane's ofIce.
By HENRY JAMES BUXTON
When the Coroner of Philadelphia looked
Into the facts attending the death ot a
youth named Tony riova, less than a week
ago, ha was led to exclaim that if no other
remedy for the cancer called 'The Arsenal
could be found It should be burned down.
From Uie little Tenth street pie shop, two
or threV blocks north of Market, the boy
had been carried suffering from the effects
of heroin. He died In a hospital a few
hours later.
A special policeman calmly observed at
the Inquest that "dope parties" were fre
quently held. In "The Arsenal" and that in
a recent raid twenty-nine persons were re
moved from tho place, all but two under
the influence of narcotic drugs.
' In cases like these the hand ot the "dope
syndicate" la clearly seen. Through an
.Intricate smuggling system It Imports Into
this city many 'rmndrod pounds of mor
phine, cocaine and heroin monthly and dis
tributes them through Tenderloin agents
and even from autos that pass through
various sections on schedule time: This syn
dicate was facing extinction under the Har
rison act, which forbids the sale of "dope"
'except on a -physician's prescription. It
gained a new lease qf life through the re-
.cent' decision, invalidating 'section 8 ,of.C&
act. for this, prevents the conviction, of those
found with the drug In their possession,.
declaring that the mere possession of largs
quantities of a drug is not evidence pre
sumptive of guilt. -
HOW 120 "FIENDS" GOT DRUGS
Legislation is required to stop this enor
mous leak In the wall raised against the
flood ot evil sustenance for crime and
degradation. But tt-'moro difficult problem
presents Itself In the evading of the law
by unscrupulous physicians.
' Dr. Frank M. Hendrlck, a negro physi
cian, of 1912 Dickinson street, was arrested
qn' A'ugust 8 by Deputy Internal Revenue
Collector McDevltt, accused of supplying
120 young "dope fiends" of South Phila
delphia with heroin, the most vicious of
modern habit-forming drugs. McDevltt and
Glovanl, a detective In the employ of ths
State Pharmaceutical Department, testified
that Doctor Hendrlck wrote heroin pre
scrlptlons for tha drug addicts under ths
pretense that, he was attempting to curs
them by the ''reduction method."
During seventy-eight days Hendrlck
wrote 1000 such prescriptions, and tor each,
one he obtained a tee of $1, making a total
of 11000 In a little more than two months.
The prescriptions were filled by two drug
gists, Samuel H. Toplan and Solomon Bay
llnson. These two druggists were also
placed under arrest, accused of having
made illicit sales to drug victims.
Tbplan and Bayllnson received 81 each
for the prescriptions tor heroin filled by
them. That -makes a grand total ot $2009
paid by the group ot 120 for their supply
during seventy-eight days. McDevltt testi
fied that the addicts who patronized Doctor
Hendrlck and the druggists ranged in ag
from sixteen to twenty-Ova years. One of
them was an eighteen-year-old boy, a high
school graduate, who was employed In ths
plant ot tbe Remington Arms Company at
116.60 a week. This boy waa giving $14 of'
his salary eaclweek to Doctor Hendrlck
and the two druggists to fe "cured" of the
heroin habit.
A mother In South Philadelphia told Mc
Devltt that her ' boy had become useless
sines he acquired vtho heroin bablt He,
too, went to Doctor Hendrlck.
OETTINO THE EVIDENCE
Glylng a fictitious nams and address,
Glovanl called on Hendrlck, and -asked hiss
to write him a prescription for 10 grain ot
heroin. Doctor Hendrlck asked how long
he used the drug. ''Six months," was ths
reply. Ths physician asksd If he desired
to be cured. The detective .ril4 la U
afrirmatlveXand recslvsd a prsosriptlon, for
20 grains ot heroin after he h4irnsd hi
name In a little reeerd ,bko4evanl hud
the prescription filled -without 'awdtfrVeuHjr . -at
Bayljnson's'drug store, .
The experience of Joseph Brow whoa'b
eaHed on the 'pfcyslelan .ws oUaatlr del. .
ferenL Brown testified that be tsW1 Jt
drljsH he vs a odealns addict,
"lis, ssM he ootkt not give aw anas I in,"
said Brown, "but wt be wotri rst sss)
apKsoriilir
' "DH Dootor
look. ai,your U
aaslnaWon ot'yowf
-Ms d imk. .n sts sisjsgi i
hU. rsoerf k.sl ts. aMss Ut ste
t Ms, band r what b ba wrtttssi &
sanosal H. b aaksd as ,t asssi my
at MM wsss t M I
tear pfs itptisn for
Sid tl"
Ova swss'i bb wbs '
s mmmmn immtmrtmtj..
'
Ws
i 1 say Msm
and,m tbssi SmS
Wh, for wasi
btnUk,
Me
