,\'U"0
Hastyn s Letters
'v ' i ' i a^=csii ,1 ii ii i
Always on The T.-D Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
fUdimo uft STitnes-Disnatcli
?>
"Seen on the Side'
A T -D Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
>6th YEAR
VOLPME M
M MIIKII 35 L
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916. TWELVE PAGES.
ST" ?UNSETTLED
PRICE. TWO CENTS,
Conference Agreement ?n
Revenue Bill Appro\ -i
hv Both Houses.
EXPECTED TO RAISE
ABOUT $200,000,000
Contains Drastic Provisions for
Retaliation Against Interfer
ence With U. S. Trade.
IMIOVWKS Nl'MBKK <>!?' TA.XKS
(iahliiPr Knlivenn House With lilt'
In* Dfiitiiiriiilinn r?f Reprisal
Measure.
Senate Takes Recess
Till 8 A. M. To-Day
.\ \MIIM>'r<)N, Sfplrmlirr ?>.?The
??iinti* nl 11!!-?' (hi* morning adopted
the confereniT report on tlir rutnuf
III 11 wit lio III ii record \i?tr. clenrloK
the Ml*> for ml Jonrn me n t of f nn
Krrkx nt IO oVItirk.
AI I tU7 \. >1. Ihr Semite rfofimtd
until s nVloi-k. The concurrent
rmoliHIon for adjournment nt 10
nVlni'k wnw left <>n Ihr inbl^ for
ui'tloll irlien tlir sninlr resume*.
WASHlNOTn.V, September 7.?Con
cress- will adjourn to-morrow morning
;it 10 o'clot k. After nine months tie
voted to legislation, both houses held
protracted session.15 to-night to wind
lip their affairs by approving the con
ferem e agreement "ii the emergency
revenue bill to raise approx I mately
$jnrt/inn.ftrtrt, desired l.y ti?e ridtninistm.
tlon I" meet iln- extraordinary appro
prlations for national defense ami the
Mexican emergency.
Only the physical impossibility of
engrossing the revenue measure In tinw
for the President's approval before to
morrow morning pr?> enteil final ad
journment to-night, despite the warning
protests of members of both houses who
threatened. >> u t <} :?] not execute tli*
hr*-ats. to prolong the session by de
n.ands for action on measures which
were forced over until December.
Leader.-" of the Sena t ? and House
agreed upon a concurrent resolution to
adjourn at in o'clock in the morning,
and for e? of members left town on
midnight trains. fa;i>r to reach their
homes for par' wipatinn ?n the national)
political campaign.
Th? last appropriation measure. the'
-??neral <!? (? .? ii' v bill. *\as adopted by j
both hous? - while waiting for the ron-i
ference report on the revenue hill, and
the Senate ratified the Danish treaty i
'.?"provide for purchase of the Danish j
West Indies for JC'i.OflO.Oni,, The cor-:
;- ipt practices bill to limit campaign!
expenditures and the immigration bill,
which President Wilson had announced i
he would veto tf passed, were put aside,!
ami will be taken up and pressed to aj
vote early in the December session. I
lllt.\STI? f ? It 4? \ IMllNs
I'll.t IIITM.HTIOX
The reventi'- t ill. as it will yo to
President Wilson for approval to-mor
row. -on tains drastic provisions em
powering the President to retaliate
a sain.sl foreign interference with
American rommeree. creates a nonpar
tisan tariff commission. Increases the
duties on dvestiiff- to encourage their
manufacture in the I'nited States, pro
vides means to prevent dumping of
cheap foreign-made gooi.s into Amer
ican markets after the war, and pro-i
vides for income, inheritance, muni-j
tions, corporation stock, liquor and I
miscellaneous internal revenue taxes. j
During the consideration of the re
port in the Senate, Senator Chamber
lain, of oregon, protested vigorously
against elimination by the conference
committee of a retaliatory provision
against Canadian control of Pacific
Coast fisheries. and Representative
Gardner. of Massachusetts, etilived the
House with bitter denunciation of the
retaliatory provision against foreign j
interference with American commerce.
Mr. Gardner charged Congress with
hypocrisy, ami his criticisms of the
administration aroused the ire of some
of the Democrats, two of whom, Rep
rcsentatives Decker, of Missouri, and
Cull op, of Indiana, made speeches in
reply. Representative Bennet, of
New York, Republican, said he dis
agreed with both Representatives
Gardner and Decker, but that there
were, questions of national honor that
arose above] partisanship.
Representative Decker, amid rounds
of Democratic, applause, thanked God
that there was in the. White House a j
President who was willing to resort i
to negotiations before resorting to the
sword. He suggested that the views
of Mr. Gardner and Mr. Roosevelt were
pro-ally.
ONI.V lMUITKSTS A Itr.
AI >1101> AT A 1,1.1 MS
"You claim to be devoted to human
ity and to despise commercialism,"
said Mr. Gardner. "Why don't you
pass an amendment refusing American
harbors to Germany's interned ships
until she repudiates the Dusitania
crime? These retaliatory amendments
would be looked on as a blow in spite
of Germany's ugly cause. What has
Congress done? Your only protests
have been aimed at the allies, who are
fighting our fight and the fight of
civilization."
The revenue provisions of the bill
include a nominal income tax of 2 per
cent with increased surtaxes, an in
heritance tax. a tax of 11-2 per eent
on net profits of munition manufac
turers. a license tax of ."if! cents on
each $1,000 stock of corporations cap
italized in excess oT wine, beer
and liquor taxes, brokers' taxes, and
\ (Continued on Third Page.)
Total Appropriations
Reach $1,626,439,209
\\ ASHIMiTOX, Srptfmtirr 7.?
Srnntor Mxrtln, of Virginia, eh air
man of the A pproprlationn ('om
mltlrr, nuliml(trd to the Srimtr to
nlght a KtattmtU'al lahlr dritlxnril to
ahotv that npproprlaIIcinn for ent
eral purponrit, rirluNhr ol extra
ordinary defence appropriation!*,
onl,r rn'frdfd kfiiithI appropria
tion n for IttlA )>? M7.K77.m>l. Ac
cording to IiIm kc thr total ap
propriation* lot 11117 UKKrcRntr
SI.?2tl,4'?D,:W>l>.
The Senate deducted from thin
extrnorrilnar)' appropriation* for
defence nKarregatlnK S30S,41 tt.tlH4.
leading the total for etirrent ap
proprlatlonn nt *1,1 IS.DIS.JM.', iih
acnlnnt a total for miH of $1,1 IO.
I *0,214.
GARTER GLASS LASHES
REPUBLICAN LEADERS
Accuses (?. <). I'. of Trying to Steal
Credit for New Banking
System.
THKlIt IMPLDK.NTK HKIU KKFI
Because Country Is Knterinj; Cam*
paign, Id rich Is Set ?m Pedestal
as >1 mI) Who Bla/.ed Way for l-'ed
erul Reserve Art.
I Special to The Times- Dispatch J
WASHINGTON, September '.--Repre
sentative t'arter Glass, "legislative
father" of the Federal reserve act. in
speech in the House to-day. lashed
Candidate Hughes. Senators '.'urtis and
Smoot and Representative Mondell. Re
publicanH. for seeking to rol> (he
Democratic party of the credit of
drafting the nation's new hanking
act, Mr. Glast-: declared it was untrue
that the Aldrich National Monetary
tCommission blazrd the way and fur
nished the pattern for the res?r\>4 act.
The Republican Senators and Rep
resentative Monde]! have insert.-"*
speeches In the Congressional Record,
in which they declare that tie
fundamental principles <>f the new
banking and currency act originated
with the late Senator Aldrich and
his monetary commission. Candidate
Hughes took up the suggestion :tnd
reiterated such statements in some of
his < .impaigu speeches.
?tl IITKS FltOM SI'KKt n
OF KKN'ATOIt \ I.lilt It'll
Ml Glass quoted from a speech of
the late Rhode Island Senator, delivered
on October In, 1313, before the Academy
of Political Science, of New York.
"lit that address Senator Aldrich
assailed every essential feature of the
Federal reserve act." said Mr. Glass.
"He attacked the regional organiza
tion ?.f the system contrasted to his
central hank plan, finding fault with
every detail of the scheme of operat
ing divisional banks. lie literally
screamed at the note-issue provision
of the bill, bedecking it with vitupera
tive epithets such as 'tiatism,' 'green
hacklum* anil 'Rrvanism.' lie bitterly
criticized the establishment of the
Federal Reserve Roard as an Irresponsi
ble central bank, with powers iin
providently provided. He denounced
the bond-refunding feature, suggesting
the possibility of the destruction of
the entire national banking system.
He condemned the rediscount and !*?..?
rediscount requirements as inflationary.
He railed at the open-market section.
He savagely assailed every reserve fea
ture of the bill, particularly the funda
mental idea of withdrawing the re
serve funds of the country from the
great centers. He said the !>il! was
socialistic in its features of govern
ment control. He pronounced the bill
unconstitutional in its grants of power,
finally ascribing paternity of the bill
to two Virginians. He appealed to the
utterances of John Marshall and Pro
fessor George Tucker, friend and
biographer of Jefferson, to rebuko
these improvident sons of that Com
monwealth. who. while they have not
ignored the lessons of experience, are
apparently afraid to make their legis
lation conform to its teachings on
account of the declarations of a party
platform.
HANG ICS TllltOt'tiH WllOl.i: 1111,1..
COMIEMXIM; IT l\SPAItl\<;l,Y
"Thus the chairman of the Aldrich
monetary commission, the author of
the Aldrich banking and currency bill
for the establishment of a central
hank, owned and controlled by bankers,
heedlessly and passionately ranged
through every section of the Federal
reserve bill, condemning It unsparingly
and denouncing every fundamental
feature of it intcmperntely. Scarcely
one provision escaped his hitter ex
coriation.
"And yet this is the man who, be
cause he was a Republican and because
ii presidential campaign is imminent,
we are impudently told now furnished
75 per cent of the Federal reserve
net."
Mr. Glass then declared that the suc
cessful operation of the Federal re
serve system during its existence
speaks as a striking refutation of evil
predictions that the late Senator Aid
rich made for it.
WILSON SENDS BEST WISHES
Iteplle* to ".Most Cordial lirecdnnV'
From ,lolnt American and Mc.\l
enn Commissioner*.
WASHINGTON, September 7.? Presi
dent Wilson to-day sent lo the Joint
American and. Mexican commissioners,
lii reply to their message sending him
"most cordinl greetings." the follow
ing telegram:
"May I not express to the American
nnd Mexican Joint commission my very
warm appreciation of the telegram Just
received, ly profound interest *in the
tasks of friendship and accommodation
to which it is addressing Itself, and
my confident hope nnd expectation that
Its deliberations will'be crowned with
a success which will long cement the
friendship between the two nations?"
Provides for Purchase of Dan
ish West Indies for
$25,000,000.
OPPOSITION IS VERY WEAK
j Favorable Action at This Session
Strongly Urged by Ad
ministration.
i WASHINGTON. September 7. -The
I treaty providing for the purchase from
? Denmark of the Danish West Indies
' for J2"i,000,000 was ratified l>y the
? Senate to-night by more than si two
thirds vote. There was no roll call,
and l'-j-s than half a dozen Senators,
ineludini; Senators Norris, .loncs an?l
Clapp. vnt?i| against it.
Favorable action on the treaty at
I this sosslon of Congress had been
strongly urtteil by the administration,
particularly because of the influence
it might have upon the situation in
I Denmark, where th?- lower house of
, Parliament has approve! it. and a
I Ttght is belliir made for ratification in
the upper house
The vote to-nisrht followed several
hours of debate in . xeeutive session,
while ? ? Sc-n^te was awaiting the
conference report on the emergency
revenue bill, the only obstacle to ad
journment of Congress, Finding that
no serious opposition developed, ad
ministration leaders arranged for a
: recess front VI." to * rj?? o'clock to
round ti j ? a <|iiorum ainl force filial
action By mistake adjournment in
j stead <<( a recess was taken, causing
? a few minutes' delay while the set
! gea lit -at-arms looked for a minister
to offrr the Invocation required under
the rules, but when no minister was
? to be found a precedent was estab
lished b> dispensiii". with the invocn
! tion, and votiiii: began soon after
ward.
'.MKMniKM' TO III.Ill l t:
i't in iiam: nut i: i>i:ik\ti:i>
An amendment by Senator Noiris to
reduce the purchase price from -
000.000 to $10,000,000 was defeated by
rfn overwhelming vote, and the treaty
was approved ju>t as it was sicned by
Secretary l.ansing ami Minister Brim
in New Vork on August 1
Negotiations for the purchase of the
'islands, a little group east of Porto
! Rico. have been in progress intermit
tently for half a century Because of
their strategic value, particularly since
the const ruction of the Panama Canal,
the American government has been
anxious i" aequiie them, to pre
vent the islands from falling into the
hands of any foreign power, (jernian
: Interference was credited with block
' trig negotiations on the subject in lft02.
j after the United Stales had ratified a
: treaty.
Praetically nothing was known about
the recent ci?iiferenees between Secre
tary Lansing and Minister P>run, and
there was no announcement of the fact
that the negotiations had been renewed
until shortly before the pact was
signed. Kven the terms of the pur
chase were kept secret until one of the
confidential copies of the treaty sent
to the Senate had disappeared and its
substance published.
Iti Denmark the treaty has developed
a political crisis that may result in a
new general election of members of
Parliament and reorganization of the
| Cabinet.
Under the terms of the treaty. Den
mark would sell to the United tSates
the Islands of St. Thomas. St. John
and St. Croix, together with adjacent
? islands and rocks.
{ISLANDS OK STIIATKUU'
I >t I'OHTA N t'K TO t. is
St. Thomas and St. John are a part
of the Virgin Islands, so named by
Christopher Columbus. St. Thomas, an
important coaling station and depot
j of trade with an excellent harbor, is
t twelve miles long, east and west, and
] from one to three miles broad. The
only article of export is bay ruin.
St. John is eight miles long, east and
west, and of irregular breadth. Its area
is about forty square miles. It occu
pies an excellent position near St.
Thomas, and its port of Coral P.av. on
the east side, is said to he the best
harbor of refuge from cyclones in the
! Antilles.
St. Croix, also named by Columbus,
j is nineteen miles long, of irregular
breadth, and contains ,"i 1, s:? 0 acres, of
which over It?.000 acres are devoted
to the cultivation of sugar.
( 'hrist ianstcfl, commonly called the
Basin, is the capital city of the Danish
West Indies, and is situated at the head
of an inlet on the north side of St.
Croix. There are harbors at the capi
tal, and at Frederiksted is the second
largest town.
The islands are inhabited mostly by
free .egrocs, engaged in the cultiva
tion of sugar cane.
I?A It I.I V >1 KNTA It \ COM1IITTKK
TO ( ONMIIKIt m:<;otiatio\*
COPKNHACKN. September 7 (via
London).?The proposal of the Con
servative party for the appointment of
a parliamentary committee of thirty
members to consider the negotiations;
for the sale of the Danish West Indies
to the United States was agreed to
to-night by the representatives of va
rious parties in the Rigsdag, after a
lengthy meeting. The representatives
also agreed to the Conservative pro
posal for a plebiscite under the new
constitution when the- committee
makes its report.
No agreement, however, lias yet
been reached concerning the forma
tion of a coalition Cabinet. That mat
ter will lie discussed at another meet
ing of the representatives to-morrow.
Norwegian Steamer Sunk.
ISOTTKRDAM, September 7 (via
London).?The small Norwegian steam
ship Rilda has been sunk. The crew
was saved.
The Rilda wus of 31U tonu gross, l ii
feet long, and built ?*t Preston in 1S83.
MRS. 0. P. RENNOLDS
Shoots Herself Through Head in
Room at Guerrant
Hotel.
CAME HERE FOR TREATMENT
Leaves Husband at Station
While She Buys Pistol and
Cartridges.
While police wore scouring the city
paiks ;in<l suburban districts vester
jday a f r *inoon, and O. p. Rennolds was
| searching: Hollywood Cemeter> for his'
J wife, who. it had been leported. was,
contemplating suicide, Kllen Herbert, i
?i colored maid in th* Guerrant Hotel.
; I bird and .Main Streets, entered the
i fiont room on th?* second floor of (h?
j 110,01 an'1 tumbled over the body of
I Mrs. Retinoids A Jagged hole through
! her temple and a pistol that lay on
: the floor at hot side told of suicide.
; ''ollre Headquarters was notified of
| 'be finding .,f ,he body, and John
?Hooper, keeper of Hollywood Ceme
J tery. learne.l thdetails from Bertillon
, Operator I "lf: Hooper met Ren
, nobis as he was leaving the cemetery
j '?vUh '? Heninc. of Hening A
? Nuckols. and broke the news to him.
; The husband rushed with all possible
j speed to the hotel.
I Hast night he was unable to give,
janv definite reason for his wife's de
I sire to take her life. "She was very
I roiit;ious. he told the police, "and at
, times her reliKioiis enthusiasm l.or
i dried closely the fanatical. My
wife w->y r,f ,t,\ exceedingly nervous
temperament, arid this had been ac
centuated by eye trouble and other
ills. When her eves gave her the most
t-ouhie. she seemed to become more
fanatical about religion, and I fear
h?r act wa.- the result of pain and
worry ahout her eyes, resulting in an
j uncontrollable attack of nervousness.**
I.KFT Ht SIIAM) AT >iT\TI(l\
TO III 1 Pl?TOI. \M> <MtTltll>(;KS
Mrs. Retinoids. who was forty-three
' years old and the mother of three
! children. ha<l iieen experiencing trouble
! with her eyes for some time. She had
j conn to Richmond some months ago
| for treatment, and yesterday, accom
i panted hv her husband, she left her
I home at Fredericks Hall and started
?to Richmond to see an oculist. They
j took the train at Rumpass and arrived
i here at 1:15 o'clock. The trip was
! without incident, and Mrs. Rennolds
appeared to be In her usual spirits. j
At Main Street Station. Mrs. Ren
nolds asked her husband to wait for
her a few minutes until she could
wash her face In the washroom. Ren
nobis waited until nearly 2 o'clock, and
i when she still failed to appear, went
i in starch "t her. lie could not locate
: h? i in the station, and decided that
-de might have gone to the place of
Hening & Nuckols. i t.-.s ];a?t Main
Street, where both were well known.
Mr. Rennolds was unable to say
whether his wife had gone into the
washroom or directly to the street.
Mr. Hening informed Rennolds that
^ iiis wife hail not been there, but that
be bad received an Inquiry from Har
' ris. Klippen ?v Co., sporting goods deal
j ers at Thirteenth and Main Streets, as
to the value of Mrs. Rennolds's check
a few minutes before. The Arm had
informed .Mr. Honing that Mrs. Ren
nolds had purchased a pistol and six
j cartridges There, and they honored her
> check upon the statement of Mr. Hen
ing. Mrs. Rennolds had no money in
her pocket and secured a car ticket
| from thr sporting goods dealers, taking
|'a westbound car.
! msil.WI) SKA It CHIOS
I'A IIKS AMI CIO.MKTKIIIHS
Fearing for the safety of his wife.
Mr. Retinoids accepted Mr. Hening's
I invitation to use his automobile, an.!,
j after requesting the police to keep a
close watch for Mrs. Rennolds. set out
t.? search tlie parks in the West Kml.
Reservoir Park wax one of the first
visit. I. uid after a tr?ur of the suburbs
the husband turned to llollvwood
(Cemetery. where he informed .Mr.
Hooper of his search, and went on
to look through the grounds.
In the meantime. Mrs. Retinoids had
proceeded uptown to the Guerrant Ho
tel She had stopped there when In
Richmond for treatment before and was
assigned to room N*o. 59. adjoining the
parlor and the front room on the sec
?n ! Moot. Mrs. Rennolds arrived at
the hotel shortly after o'clock and.
-..curing a handful of stationery In
tile lobby, proceeded at once t., her j
room. A call for ice water was sent
down by Mrs. Rennolds about .?! oVIo. k '
and was answered. While in the lohbv I
and in her room. Mrs. Rennolds ap-i
pearod collected and not to be labor
ing under any excitement. She at-!
tr.icted no particular attention.
?'? <5. Pettit, manager of the hotel, j
was reading ?,i the lobby shortly after
.. o dock when lie heard a report that
j lie thought came from the street lie
looked out am) saw a crowd standing I
j about an automobile and. thinking I
j there had been a blow-out, returned
i ?>> his reading.
j It was about o'clock when guests j
? were sent to a room close to that oc- i
copied by Mrs. Rennolds. A glass was
missing from Ibis room, and Kllen
Herbert, the maid, remembered there
i w cro two glasses In room \*n. ."in. She
found the door unlocked, with the key I
on the outside, and entered immedi- I
ately.
HOD) IS HII'.M) 0\ I'l.ooit
l.V ROOM AT til KIIIIA Vr IIOTKI.
Hying on the door with face upturned
and feet hut a few inches from the
hall door, was the body of Mrs. Ren
nolds. The sight of the gaping wound
In her temple and the pistol at her side
sent the muio ..creaming from the room. |
Mr. Pettit was notified, and he tele-w
phoned Police. Headquarters. . Coroner]
Taylor was summoned and arrived at
the hotel shortly. The body was or
(Contlnucd on Second Page.)
Guardsmen Returned by Rccent
Order Will Be Demobi
lized at Once.
AFFECTS 15.000 SOLDIERS |
Troops Still in State Camps
Probably Will Be Sent to
Patrol Line.
WASHINGTON. Septcnihor 7.?Orders j
wcro issued by the War Oepattmantj
to.(lav for the discharge from Federal |
service as soon as practicable of I
twelve National (Juanl regiments, com
prising about lf>.00'i men recently
withdrawn to their home States from
th<? Mexican border and a number of
.smaller organizations of some 1,300
college and university students.
' 'rders for the mustering out of ,
additional units are expected to follow
in the near future. The next regiment
to leave the Federal .service will be '
the Fourteenth New York Infan- J
try, which will "go as soon as j
its members are freed from dancer of
paratyphoid contagion. A number of
cases of the disease already have been
reported in that regiment. and it will
be held as a matter of precaution its
She camp until the infection has been
eiadicateil. Surgeon - General Gorgas
Mild to-day a vigorous campaign
! against the disease was being waged,'
and that he expected to see it stamped
out promptly. A special paratyphoid
.serum is being manufactured, and spe
cial precautions arc taken to prevent
the infection from spreading
til AKDSMKN STII.l. IN CAJII'S
TO UK I)IM'ATt'IIKII TO IIOltDKIt
There arc about 40.0."?0 guardsmen
(.still in State mobilization camps, and
' these prpbably will he dispatched to
the border very soon to relieve meq
j now serving there. Secretary iiaker
i favors giving all the State troops a
chance for the training to lie acquired
on the patrol line.
j To-day's orders were construed by
I some ofllcials as a preliminary move I
I to the withdrawal of General Persh
ing's regulars frotn Mexico. Officers
j of the general stajf Insisted, however,]
that the release of the guardsmen re
' suited principally front the improving
j conditions on the border.
The original order for all guardsmen
I in the v Federal service to move to the
| border as soon as possible, although
held in abeyance by General Ftmston's
\ request, received by the department
' when the railroad strike was imminent.
| has not been revoked. Secretary Baker
[ is expected to lift the suspension
i shortly and permit troops waiting In
I mobilization camps to move as soc.it
j as they are ready.
The order releasing the college men
requires them to go to their home
mobilization camps for mustering out
and resuming their status in the State
j Guard.
| OFFH.'IA I. AXNOl XC.'K.M KXT
HI W.tlt DEPARTS! K.NT ,
I The War Department official an
j nouncement was made in the follow
j ing stutement:
| "The Secretary of War directs that
. all the organizations of the National
(Guard in the Federal service recently
i ordered from the border to their re- j
spective mobilization camps, be must- :
ered out of the Federal service as soon j
I as practicable, mid returned to the ?
normal status ??r National Guard !
i troops, except in the case of the Four
? teenth New York Regiment, which is
I to he held In service at its tnohiliza
? lion camp pending the prevalence* in
j that regiment of paratyphoid.
I "As soon as It can be aafelv done,
j this regiment also will be mustered
I out. Similar precaution should be
: taken with any other organization re
\ turning from the border suffering
I from tiny infection or which is under
i suspicion of being infected."
The plan for the mustering out of
j the regiments will be executed under
; ule various departmental -commanders i
| within whose jurisdiction these organ- ;
izations are placed. In many In- ;
i stances, where there is no reason to
hold them because of disease infec
tion. the mustering out will be done
i immediately.
It is expected that all the organiza
' tions except the Fourteenth New York
j will be mustered out ns soon aa the
I necessary routine is concluded.
The regiments affected by the order
? are the First Louisiana Infantry; Sec- j
' ond. Fourteenth ami Seventy-Aral New !
York Infantry; First and Fourth New (
i Jersey Infantry; Fourth Maryland in- i
Ifantry; First and Second Illinois In
! fantry; First and Third Missouri ln
\ fan try; Fifth California Infantry;
| Third Oregon Infantry, and. Second
I Washington Infantry.
! HOPEFUL OF PENNSYLVANIA
Democratic I hnlrmnn Think* It Mny
lie Worth V\ hilr to FIrIiI for
* Keystone Slnte.
| Special to The Times-Dispatch. |
I NKW YnKK, September 7.?Oemo
[ era lie National ('hiiirman Mcformick
conferred with former Congressman
A. Mitchell Palmer to-day, and after
j vards declared that he and Mr. Palmer
thought the |>einocrats could carry
Pennsylvania.
Mr. McCorntick atlded that he would
take :t look to-morrow Into his home
State and see if it were possible to
make it nationally Democratic for the
A,st time since nobody knows when.
Mr. Palmer told Mr. McCormick
something that, made the latter feel
^confident that it would be worth while
to try for the electoral vote of the
Keystone State. The national chair
man asserted that "if we could get
Pennsylvania. New York would not be.
necessary for us to win ' He added,
"That does not mean Hint we are not
going to carry New York, for I be
lieve we me."
Fever Kneiriv" In description Klren
laiden's Menthol Candy Cough Prow* by
miffererx. Menthol ntukc.t breathing easier;
clear* air pasfaicesi. 5c pk*i?Ads.
Police H ear of Plot
to Blow Up Subway
Imperial to The Times-Itlnpn tell. |
?NKW l'OIIK, September 7.?A plot
blow up llir subway hi 7 o'clock 1
lo-morron morning nn? reported to
the poller to-nigh I. The plotter*. It '
"ft Id. Intended to plant three
bombs. (tnr nil* to hr exploded In |
tlie tube beneath the Knst Itlver.
An n reMiilt ever? entrnnie to the
nnbtvaj and e\er.v pint form Is
Kuordrd I?,t uniformed nnd plnln
clothes policemen.
Tlie police hwve Ion! motions to
eimnlnr every bundle brought Into
the Riihiviijr.
The hiformnn t Mil Id lie 11m riding
dnivntonn In n .\lntli Avenue ele
vated train when IiIh nttentlon was
1111 meted to three men In enrnest
conversation. l-'roni their rrmnrks
he noou dithered Dint tlie.r were
utrlker*. lie henrd one of the men
tell Ills cnmpniilnnn Hint he ttlie
npenker) hnd Just left n conference
of Nt rlkers, "here. he snld. till
plans were complete for blowing up
the Nuhwnjr. The striker snlil three
bombs were to he exploded. desig
nating the points nt which I un of
tliem were to he net nlf,
The inn 11 who overheard. 11 inline
to the police. loMt no time In lenvliiK
the trnln nnd Retting: to n telephone.
SERVICE ALMOST Witt
ON NEW YORK CM LINES
Subway and Mlcvatetl Trains Ileing
Operated on Regular
Srlicdules.
SIKlArK SYSTIOM AFFFCTFI)
Shouts, President <?f InlerhorotiKli,
Declares Strike Is Failure?Dis
orders Result in Only .Minor In
juries to Few Persons.
NKW YORK, September 7.?Subway
nnd elevated transportation linos on
j M'tnlinttm Island were being operated
t i-tilp.it on h?H officials of tho Inter
borough Rapid Transit Company said
w ere virtual! .? normal schedules. al
though it wa.s admitted that service
on tlie surfao? lines of the New York
'Railways Company was seriously nf
feetei by the traction strike called
last night.
Theodore P. Shouts, president of the
lnt< rhorough. issued a statement late
to-day in which lie said the strike wa.-i
a failure, and that if police protection
continued as good as it had been
throughout the day. the city was as
sured of normal transportation facllj
tl<*?.
I Msonic i s that occurred in various
parts of the city resulted in only
minor injuries to a few persons, ac
cording to police reports.
Pisruptfon of service on surface
lines diverted much of their usual traf
fic to the elevated and subway lines,
nrd during the rush hours this even
ing there was considerable congestion.
Mayor Mitchel arrived from the
Plattshurg Training Camp. and. with
Oscar s. Straus, chairman of the Pub
lic Service Commission, to-morrow
will tnke up the strike situation.
William l>. Fitzgerald, organizer of
the Amalgamated Association, and
Frank H- dley, general manager of the
I.*11orhorosigh. testilied at a hearing on
the strike before the Public 'Service!
Commission.
Failure of the union 10 tie up the 1
subway and elevated lines is attributed
by sonii- 'n# n to the fact that thous- 1
amis of strike-breakers, congregated J
here and in near-by cities in prop- j
aration for the threatened nation- j
wide railway strike, were available to j
the 1 nterborough.
FRENCH AIRMEN BUSY
' *1" Active Part In Itecent Opera
tions on the Somme ,
Front.
PAH IS. September T.?The French
aerial service took an active part in
the recent actions on the Somme front,
says a French ollicinl statement, in
air tights yesterday, two Herman ma
chines were brought down by French
pilots and four other CSerman aero
planes were forced to descend in dam
aged condition. The statement says:
"Aviation: Our air service took an
active part in the actions of the past j
days on the Somme front, watch
ing the movements of enemy infan
try, carrying out bombardments in the!
rear of the German lines, and attack- 1
Ing with machine guns troops on the I
march. Our machines armed with
guns repeatedly hombiirded the enemy's '
trenches.
"IHiring air lights which took place,
yesterday, two machines were brought I
down by our pilots. One fell in tliei
direction of Hueudecourt and the other j
in the neighborhood of ftrie-en-San- ;
tcrre. Four other Herman machines
were forced to descend damaged."
WILSON SIGNS SHIP BILL
Aul linrlr.es Organization of t orporn
tlnns to liny or l.ense * essels
nnd Put Tliem In Trade.
WASHINGTON, September 7 ?Presi
dent Wilson to-day signed th<- ship
ping bill. It authorizes organization
of a corporation or corporations with
capitalization of not more than S5n.- '
000.000 to buy or lease ships, and put 1
them in trade if they cannot be IcasTd !
for operation to private capital
SCHOOL OPENING DELAYED
Georgetown Officials Follow I.end of !
Washington Authorities in
Postponing Date.
^ A SI 11 Nt 1 I ? (X, I*. Sept em her 7
Georgetown Cniversity oilicials to-da.\ !
decided to postpone the opening ..1
their undergraduate school from Sep
tember 1.1 lo October because of tin
infantile paralysis menace. The capi
tal s .sch001ji will not open until Oe
tober 2 for the same reason. The
regular time is September IS.
FRENCH CAPTURE I
GERMAN TRENCHES
IN SONNE REGION
Bring Front Forward in
Alignment With Newly
Acquired Line.
VIOLENT BOMBARDMENTS
CONTINUE DURING DAY
In Galicia, Russian Forces Still
Are Actively in Quest of ,
Lemberg.
ri(<HTi\(> ix iiAucz smrroR
Get-man* and Bulgarians Take Tur?
(ukai l-'ortrrss From
Roumanians.
L'?NI"?N. September T.?The infan
try of the belligerents in the Somnie
region of France was inactive to-day.
except south of the liver, where the
French, to the cast of Denieeourt. cap
tured elements of trenches from thfi
< ierinans. an<l brought forward their
front more In alignment with their
newly acquired line running through
Relloy-en-Santerre and Berny-en-San
teri e.
The day. however, was a continua
tion of the violent bombardments
which always precede attempts at
fresh advances bv the entente allies.
In addition, great aerial activity wai
shown by French and British aerial
squadrons in bombarding points "f
vantage behind the German lines.
South of the Snmme. so violent was
the French artillery tire that under
It the Germans were unable to make
their customary counterattacks, ac
cording to Paris.
The Germans are heavily shelling
the French in the old tlrst-iine Ger
man trenches, a mile in length, be
tween the Vaux-t'hapitre region. and
the town of Chenois, in the Verdun
sector. which were taken by the
French on Wednesday night.
In Galicia. the Russians are still
actively in quest of l.emherg. keeping
up their pressure against the Austro
German forces westward from the
regions of Brzezany and Italics. Near
Brzezany, the Russians have driven
hack the Teutons from fortified posi
tions and advanced to the Naraiuvka
River, a tributary <>f the Gnita l.ipa,
and at some points have crossed the
stream. Near llalicz. the railway lino
has been cut by the Russians, who
now are heavily bombarding Ha Her,
which, although in Humes, the forces
of the central powers are still stub
bornly defending.
KF.THK.VTS \ nMITTF.U
nv IIIOItl.lN VM> VIKNNA
In Wednesday's lighting in the
I lalicz sector, r?,iit.? otTlcers and men of
the Teutonic allies were made prisoner.
Roth Iterlin and Vienna admit retreats
between the /Iota l.ipa and iMiiestei
Rivers.
I.ike wise. Vienna concedes a retreat
of the Austrian forces before the Rou
manians near Olah Toplltzn. in l-.ast
ern Transylvania, twenty thiles from
the Roumanian border. The retreat
was made in the face of a threatened
enveloping movement. I'o the south
east of thi? same region the. Rou
manians have occupied the Gye.vrgyo
Ditro-Orsova pass. .
In the capture of Turtukai fortress
the Germans and Bulgarians took more,
than 20.00ft prisoners and more than
1 no guns, according to Berlin. RU
kharest says the lighting in this vicinity
is of great violence, and that the losses
on both sides have been heavy.
The Russians iti Turkish Armenia
near Ognot continue, to drive the
Turks front their strong mountain de
fenses. according to Petrograd. and
also have put down a Turkish offen
sive west ?>f Krzingan. On the. Mace
donian front and in the Austro-ltalian
theater., the lighting is still being done
mainly by means of artillery.
In German Fast Africa, two addi
tional ports?Kilwa Klvinjc and Kilwa
Ki si want, south of L)ar-es-Salaatn?
have surrendered to the British.
A I STIUA.NS WITH OH AW
Hi; FOItF. HOI .MA MAN'S
VIKNNA. September 7 tvia Loudon).?
Austrian troops have withdrawn before
a threatened Roumanian envelopment
to the heights west of olah Toplitza.
south of Dorna Wat' a and twenty miles
west of the Roumanian border, says
the official statement issued at the
Austro-1 lungarian headquarters to-day.
tin the Russian front the Austrian
troops between the /.lota l.ipa and the
Iiniester Rivers also have been with
drawn.
The statement follows:
"Roumanian front: Near * Malt Top
litza i.?t the junction of the Maros and
Toplitza Rivers?. to avoid a threat
ened envelopment, our troops have been
withdrawn to the heights west of the
low II.
"Russian front: In connection with
the ti^hting described yesterday bet
ween the Zlotn l.ipa and the Dniester
our troops have been removed to pre
pared positions."
HOI M A N I \ N FOHTIIKSS
OF TI ItTI liAl l AI'I'l l?F.I?
I'. III. I N. S ptember 7 (via l.ondon).
.-.\t?>iv tlrin 'jii.noo Roumanians were
taken pri.-on?r when Bulgarian and
German troops captured the Rou
m iiilan fortress of Turtukai. says the
..ill, ril statement issued to-day by the
German army headquarters
The' otlb-ial statement says that in
the , apture of the Roumanian fortress
?lore than I"" guns were taken.
I \ 11 > (l\ TIMKISII POSITIONS
in IIRITISll M-'.IIOI'I.A NK.1
l,i i.\ 1'ON. September 7 A raid by
llritish aeroplanes on Turkish position*
II F.I Arish, in the Sinai peninsula,
ninety miles east of the ,Sue.a Canal.
