I
vNOZiav
XIN30Hd
I WEATHER
' Arizona: Friday and
Saturday fa.r, no
change in tempera
ture. "IARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Sept. 6, 27.075.
n u t
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL. 19. NO. 89.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
' 'i
)
PROTECTIVE LEAGUE FORMED IB IS5UP.E
Li ID ORDER IN WARREN DISTRICT
The Warren District as a unified community has formed an association to make permanent the pi ace anil
prosperity of the city. To this end, men in all walks of life have enrolled in what will be known a.; tin' Citizens'
Protective league. Because of the instant acceptance of the idea by all interested in the welfare of lliis com
munity, the organization already is perhaps the most powerful agent for law and order ever formed in Arizona.
Hundreds Are Enrolling.
Although the project was undertaken less than ten days ago. more than 500 citizens already have pledged
their unqualified support to the league. Included in the 500 are all of the business men of Hisbee as well as lead
ers in other walks of our civic life. It is as.-ured that more than 1000 members will be enlisted within a week
The Protective League extends its services to each and every resident, to one and nil engaged in the marts
of trade, to employee and employer without discrimination; to industries located in Hisbee. be they humble or
affluent.
While the membership at the present time places the Protective League in an unassailable position, the
organization particularly desires to welcome into its work hundreds of men and wemen who thus far have not
had the opportunity of adding their names to the roster.
The League was started by prominent citizens as the result of rumors that the welfare of the Warren Dis
trict might be disturbed by industrial agitators. While these rumors were unattended by actual developments of
a nature calculated to work general barm, the promoters of the League determined it was .high time to safeguard
the fair name of the community by entering into such a scheme of civic preparedness as would furnish assurance
to all that forces were in existence which would overthrow any activity hostile to the peace and prosperity of the
District.
So the league is ready to enforce the rights of every member of the community. The league will uphold
the city authorities in every move made in the name of law and order, and insist that the authorities exercise con
stant viligance. Attention will also be turned to other matters concerned in the betterment of all residents. In
its "Declaration of Principles", the league has this to say:
Declaration of Principles.
The undersigned residents and taxoayers of the Warren District, hereby enroll ourselves as mem
bers of the Citizens' Protective League, the purposes of which shall be to promote better city and county
government: to preserve order and enforce law; to reduce taxes and to foster and protect the best interests
of the District without discrimination against any man because of his membership or non-membership in
any organization or society.
15 T
UARDS TO
Improved Conditions' on the
Border Affords Many Col
lege Boys Chance to Swap
Soldering for Schooling. j
OTHERS TO TAKE !
PLACES AT FRONT
Forty Thousand Assembled in
State Camps to Get Chance
to See Border Doesn't
Mean Withdrawal.
,By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7. Orders
v.-ere Issued bv the war department to-1
day fjr the discharge from federal i
service as soon as practicable of 12
national guard regiments comprising j
about 15,000 men recently withdrawn '
to their home states from the Mex
ican border and a number of smaller
organizations of some 1.500 college
and university students.
Orders for the mustering out of ad
ditional units are expected '. follow
soon. The next regiment to leave the
field service will be the Fourteenth
New York Infantry, now at camp near
Fishkill. N. Y.. which will go as soon
as its members are freed from danger,
DSD
MUSI
OUT
of para-typhoid contagion. jof Stanford University, who lias just
There are about 40.000 guardsmen i returned from Washington,
still in state mobilization camps and ' According to Dr. Jordan, the con
these probably will be distributed to frrence agreed that any 'one of three
the border very soon to relieve men , PIans would be feasible:
now serving there. Secretary Baker j " "' A congress of neutral nations
favors giving all the state troops a ; m,Kht take the lead in bringing the
chance for the training to be acquired , belligerents of Europe together,
on the Datrol line. "2 Congress might appoint repre-
Today's orders were construed by I
some officials as a preliminary to the
withdrawal of General Pershing's;
regulars from Mexico. Officers of the
general staff insisted, however, that
the release of the guardsmen resulted
, - . ..I 11 . J ' l ' T HI idii.i IJI lilt-
principally - Um the improv.ng condi- ,ans ag thpy be
turns on the border. President Wilson himself.
The original order for all guards-j -jn nly judgment, without relation
men in the federal service to move j to the conference with President Wil
to the border as soon as possible, al- 80n." said Dr. Jordan, "the President
though hi Id in abeyance by General
Funston's request received by the de
partment when the railroad strike
was imminent, has not been revoked.
Secretary Baker is expected to lift
the suspension sh'irtly and permit
troops waiting in mobilization camps
to move as soon as they are ready.
The order releasing the college men
requires them to go to their home
mobilization camps for mustering out
and resuming their status in the
state guards. It affects the folP.iw-
Ing units:
Headquarters and supply companies,
and Batteries A. B. C, D, of the Tenth
Connecticut Field Artillery (Yale Bat-1
tery); Headquarters and supply com
pany, machine gun company, First In
fantry. (Norwich College); Company
A, Colorado Engineers. (Colorado
School of Mines); Battery A. Col
oraj Field Artillery. (Colorado Agri
continued on Page Three.)
PORTLAND, Me., Sept. 7.
Charles E. Hughes told a New
England audience today that he
would rather stand for the prin
ciple of arbitration in legislation
and go down to defeat than to
yield "one jot or tittle" of it and
become president of the United
States.
Hefore five crowded audiences
in Massachusetts, New Hamp
shire and Maine the nominee
criticised the Adamson eight
hour bill. He called it a wage
law.
In his Portland speech Mr.
Hughes reiterated his stand on
the tariff, efficiency in govern
ment, the merit system, protec
tion of the American rights and
other issues of the campaign. lie
fore the nominee spoke Mr. Rob
ius addressed the crowd.
9
PEACE EXPECTED
David Starr Jordan Says Pres-
ident Wilson Has Details
All Planned Out for End of
Great Conflict
(By Review Leased Wirl
STANFORD UNIVERSITY. Calif., I
Sept. 7. That definite plans were 'jut
lined at recent conferences between
President Wilson and peace advo
cates for bringing about peace in
Europe, was the declaration made to-
Xv by Chancellor David Starr Jordan,
! sentatives to meet with representa
tives of other neutral congresses to
. act
"3 The United
States might act
independently."
Dr. Jordan said he was not at
lllh.rtt. In ... .1...., .1..
can do nothing before the coming
election as it would be unwise to
undertake a peace movement that
would be attacked politically at home.
"It is probable that the President
and Congress will join in a peace
movement which will not come, how
ever, for two or three months as the
entrance of Greece and Rumania into
the war has given hope of victory to
the Allies "
i)r. Jordan said he looked for peace
within six months.
BREMEN EXPECTED IN
U. S. IN TEN DAYS
LONDON, Sept. 7. It is reported
here the German submarine merchant
man Bremen is due to arrive at an
American port within 10 days, prob
ably at New l-oniloii, Conn.
WITHIN SIX
MONTHS
WITHDRAWAL 1
BE ASKED U. S.
Tl
American and Mexican Com
missioners to Meet in Earn
est This Morning Border
Conditions Improve.
(By Review Leased Wire)
NEW LONDON. Sept. 7. While the
American-Mexican commission ap
pointed to evolve a solatftjn of border
disputes was not in session today,:
missioners toward fuller understand- j
ing of the task before them. They i
spent over three hours in studying
data on conditions along the interna-
t?jnal line and in Mexico, provided by
the state and war departments. They
also questioned at length Special :
Agent James Linn Itodgers, and '
Stephan H. Bonsai, also attached to :
the state department, as to their per-;
sonal knowledge of affairs beyond t! ;
border.
Secretary Lane said the American
commissioners had found many hope
ful suggestions. Conditions in Mer
irtj appear to be on the mend, he
said, and official reports to the state
department bear out the views in this
regard.
The joint session will be resumed
tomorrow.
The review made today by the
American commissioners was on the
situation and conditions that led up
to the sending of the American puni-
tiv" expedition in search rf Villa and
his bandits. The request for th with
drawal of this force probably will be
formally presented by the Mexican
commissioners tomorrow.
One of the papers examined was a
report made by Gener?! Tershing
about a month aeo saying thnt the
object of his expedition had been ac
complished so fnr as has been possi
ble under conditions which surround
the expedition.
Ignacio Bonillas and Alberto Pani.
the two Mexican commissioners who
remained here during the day. also
devoted themselves to preparing for
tomorrow's conference.
That Train Robbery, All For An Empty Safe Which
They Couldn't Open; Many Bisbeeites Have Thrills
While Sheriff Harry C. Wheeler and , According to local officials of the
Constable Sam J. llayhurst, of Doug- j Wells-Fargo Express Company, a few
las. and. perhaps, an organized posse, packages were, probably. lost but no
were searching through the Chirica-' other damage was done to their prop
huas and. possibly, into New Mexico erty.
for the sin'en men who held up the Nine paskages of registered mail.
Golden State Limited Wednesday the distillation of which was Hisbee,
night, west of Apache, Cochise county . were taken by the hold-ups. Until the
opened its eyes to the tact that the j post office authorities can trace the
old Arizotui lias r.ot entirely passed to ! nntter he contents will not be learn
the limbo. Nothing had been heard j ed. The charges of nitro damaged
from the officers up to a late hour several sacks of mail and one maga
festerday afternoon, but it is the opin-! zine, blown into several pieces, was
ion of all the people in the county the object of much attention yester
that Wheeler r.nd H iyhurst will stay i day in front of Twomey's Capitol, on
on the trail until the men are caught j the Gulch.
or until it is completely lost. j Stories of the activity of passengers
Many are the tales of the hold up, I of the train in hiding their valuables,
brought to Hisbee by arrivals on the I when it became known the train was
Limited train. All agree that nitro
glycerine, or "soup" as it Is railed by
the underworld, was used in the at
tempt to blow orPp the snfe. Another
story, unconfirmed as yet, is that tne
safe which was the object of the train
robbers' activity was empty and
would have yielded tliem nothing.
WOMEN IN FICHT TO
RAISING $1,000
i.
TV-: "v 4?
Iv'tW l Ry J
hCTJ- rAYs. f
4 8tVK
a ..,); .Mi.vs lieU'ii Tauo and
.V.ii. liarrirt Stanton Llaich, Mrs. t).
Mili.clianU B:ii.-aiii.
These mcr.il.ers of the Concession Union for Woman Suffrage are in
the thick of the light to defeat Wilson because of his opposition to a suf
frage amendment to the U. S. constitution. They will make speeches for
IImvI e.s in the twelve sull'iae states, and are trying- to raise Jl.lOO a uay to
rui. their campaign.
Congress Will
nJI T TJ 7
monster Revenue dill is rassea
No Copper Tax
(Special to The Review)
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7.
House tonight adopted confer
ence report which strikes copper
'ax from revenue bill according
to amcndment which Congress
man Hayden of Arizona original
ly offered when bill was under
consideration in House.
WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 Congress
will adjourn tomorrow morning at 10
o'clock. After nine months devoted
to legislation, both houses held pro
tracted sessions tonight to end their
affairs by approving the conference
agreement on the emergency rever.ue
bill to raise cpproximately $205,000,-
000 desired by the administration to
meet the extraordinary appropriation
for national defenses and the Mexican
emergency.
Only the physical impossibility of
engrossing the revenue measure in
time for the President's approval be
fore tomorrow morning prevented fi
nal adjournment tonight, despite the
waning protests oi members or Dotn
houses, who threatened, but did not
execute the threats, to prolong the
session by demands for action on
measures which were forced over un-
til December.
held up, are Hooting about in plenty.
One woman, it is said, hid a diamond
ring so well that she was nearly an
flour finding it after the scare ws ov
er and the train on its way to Doug
las.
The dining car conductor is said to
have hid all of his nionev and, remeiii
DEFEAT WILSON;
A DAY FOR CAMPAIGN
Iii-j .iai.u lounger. iU.tii.in:
li. i'. Belmont and Mrs. lurz
Adjourn Today
Will Be Imposed
Members Already Leaving
Leaders of the Senate and House
agreed upon a joint resolution to ad
journ at 10 o'clock in the morning and
scores of members left town on mid
night trains, eager to reach their
homes for participation in the nation
al political campaign.
Treaty Ratified
The last appropriation measure, the
general deficiency bill, was adopted
by both houses while waiting for the
conference reports on the revenue
bill and the Danish treaty to pur
chase the Danish West Indies for $25.
000,000 was ratified. The corrupt
practices bill to limit campaign ex
penditures and the immigration bill.
which President Wilson had announc
ed lie would veto if passed, were put
aside and will be taken up in Decem
ber session.
Enormous Power In Bill
The revenue bill as it will go to
President Wilson for approval tomor
row contains drastic provisions em
powering the president to retaliate
j aKaj,Ist foreign interference
1 At,ipri,.lin commerce, creates a
with
non-
I partisan taritT commission, increases
j lnp duli,,8 oa dyestuffs to encourage
. tljPir manufacture in the United
(Continued on Page Four.)
bering that It would not appear right
that ho should have nothing on his
person, hastened to his hiding place
and secured 115, which amount he In
tended handing to the robbers to show
as the Douglas International said,
"that there was much sympathy be
tween members of the profession."
Other passengers are said to have
been on the verge of hysterin and
still others drank lemonade on the ob
servation platform while the robbery
was goln on.
The work, in all probability, was
that of amateurs. Practically any
man. familiar with nitroglycerine,
could have opened the safe very easi
ly and with one shot. That they took
six and then failed indicates their
ability in their adopted profession.
Several witnesses, among the hoboes
who were riding the train and among
the engine'ren. declare the robbers
were certainly cowpiiuchers. They
talked witli the tree and easy drawl
of the puncher and also suuatted on
(Continued on Pago Three.)
4 vll -
Tin
; 1
USED
i
TO PUT THRU PUS
i
"DRYS" SPECIAL ON
9,000 MILE TRIP.
CHICAGO. Sept. 7. The Pro
hibition party's special train
which will carry J. Frank Ilan
ley, of Indiana, candidate for pre
ident, and Ira Landrith, of Ten
nessee, candidate for vice pres
ident, and other leaders on a
two months coast to coast trip
campaigning, will leave Chicago
at 10:30 a. m. ton.'orrow.
The special train will travel
9.000 miles and make nearly 1.000
stops before the trip ends at
Indianapolis November 6. One
month will be spent in a trip
to the Pacific coast and another
month in a tour through the east
ern states. The party will re
turn to Chicago from the west
October 6 for a mass meeting be
fore beginning their journey
eastward.
i
!
i
!
!
i:
SHOPMEN ON 11
WESTERN 0. R.
E
PAT
Five Cents an Hour Raise and
r? i . ti i- r '
cigm now iray oeing
Sought by 25.0C0 Railway
Tradesmen.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
CHICAGO. Sept 7. Railroad ex
ecutives of twenty two western lir.es
today resumed negotiations at Chi
cago, Kansas City and elsewhere witn
representatives of 25,000 shopmen who
are seeking higher pay and red;u-e:l
hours.
The shopmen are negotiating with
the roads simultaneously, but not col
lectively. The trades represented in
clude machinists, sheet metal workers,
blacksmiths and their helpers.
The demands, according to railway
executives, are for an increase of rivfe
cents an hour in wages and for an
eight hour day. The increase anil
time reduction, according to railav
officials, would total perhaps three
million dollars a year. Wher? th
open shop policy obtains, the rail
ways are dealing with the shopmen
not 'as unions but as representatives
'of the employes.
Contracts with some of the railroads
expired last May, while others did not
expire until September 1. The shop
men, it is reported, agreed to delay
their negotiations until the trainmen's
strike situation had reached a head
or had been eliminated. Among the
railways affected are the Chicago,
Burlington and Quincy; Chicago Rock
Island and Pacific. Colorado and
Southern, Colorado Midland and Rio
Grande; Fort Smith and Western.
Texas and Pacific; St. Louis and San
Francisco; Missouri, Kansas and Tex
as: International and Great Northern:
Kansas City and Mexico and Orient
and the Kansas City Southern.
Railway officials said they did not
know any eastern railroads which
were affected at this time.
i AUSTRIANS WITHDRAW
FROM RUMANIAN FRONT
VIENNA via Ixindon, Sept. 7. Aus
trian troops have withdrawn before a
threatening Rumanian envelopment
to the Heights of Olah Toplilza, south
of Dorna Watra and twenty miles
west of the Rumanian border, it is
said in the official statement Issued
at the Austro-Hungarlan headquarters
today. On the Russian front the Aus
trian troops between the Zlota-Llpa
and the Dneister rivers also have
been withdrawn.
I BREAD PRICE UNDECIDED
I CHICAGO. Sept. 7. The fate of the
' five-cent loaf of bread was underter
j mined at adjournment of the session
j of the convention of the National Mas
' ter Bakers Association. The general
'sentiment was in favor of letting the
price of bread remain a local issue
! instead of attempting to promulgate
I a general increase in price through-1
lout the United States.
0
B SUFFRftGETTES
Debate Waxes Hot in Atlantic
City, as Women Delegates
From Many States Discuss
Campaign Issues.
TO MAINTAIN LOBBY
IN WASHINGTON
President Wilson Is Slated to
Address Members Tonight,
From Which Women Will
Adopt Key to Campaign.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
ATLANTIC CITY. N. J.. Sept. 7
After a long debate which carried the
afternoon session of the convection
well into the evening, the National
American Woman Suffrage Associa
tion today adopted a platform outlin
ing its plan of campaign for securing
the submission of the federal suffrage
amendment to the state legislatures
for ratification.
It was decided that the next annu
al convention in 1917 be held in
March or "thereabouts" that a lobby
be continued at Washington and that
the association conduct a nation-wide
campaign of education, agitation, or
ganization and publicity in support
of the federal amendment.
It was further agreed by the con
vention that no state association
shall ask the legislature of its state
for the submission of an amendment
or referendum to the people until the
national board of executive council
of the association shall have been
given the opportunity to judge of the
matter. Other steps also are to be
token to standardize and nationalize
the woman suffrage movement.
Hot Debate Ensues
The convention got into a tangle
over the method of considering the
platform, many parliamentary moves
being made to postpone immediate
consideration or to have the numer
ous items in it taken up verbatim.
Intimations were made that a steam
roller was being used to put the y'-iit-form
through the convention but in
the end it was adopted without amend
pient.
President's Pet Measure
Then followed another debate on
the resolution of President Carrie
Chapman Citt. presented yesterday,
which interprets the association to
mean that the submission of the fed
eral amendment is the immediate and
principal object of the association
and thit all sate work is merely pre
paratory to that end. When the reso
lution came before the convention.
Dr. Howard Shaw, former president,
endeavored to hive consideration
postponed until tomorrow morning.
There was objection r.nd the dele
gates plunged into a discussion of the
resolution.
Some delegates said the resolution
was not worth the paper it was writ
ten on. as it could not rh-ne th
sense of the association and others
thought it vitiated the action of the
convention. Many Speeches
The annual address of the president
was one of the feptures of the day"
proceedings. Mrs. Cntt reviewing the
suffrage movement in r.ir.r.y states for
veers back. She declared that the
federa' nmendn ent should be t''e ul
timate aim of the association and the
work in the states should be a priv
gram of preparedness to win nation
wide sufTrac.
Manv delegates told of the difficul
ties of getting proposed constitution
al amendments through the state leg
islatures. Mrs. C.i'ford Dudley of
Tennessee, in favoring a federal
amendment said one of the objections
heard to it was that it infringed on
state rights. She pointed out tht
many statesmen who opposed a feder
al suffrage amendment as an invas
ion of state rights favored the amend
ment electing senators by the people,
the notional prohibition amendment
and the national child labor law-,
which she said are in the same class
with regard to alleged Infringements.
"And." she exclaimed. "President
Wilson, the candidate of the Demo
cratic party for re-election, definitely
said it cave him great pride to have
siirned the child labor bill."
"Dixie" Evening
The evening session of the conven
tion was given over to listening to
speeches by southern women. It was
called "Dixie Evening."
(Continued on Page Three)
