1
l J l' C Uin
north portion. HHHBVBVBVfl
m 2 FEARLLao, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. . IbmbbB
Fortysixth Year-No. 216. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH FRlgAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postofflce"om
j I Second Day of Fashion Show Will '..'.n I
I Be Marked, by Illuminated Parade! I
I Decorated Automobiles
Are to Form in Parade at
! I 7:30 O'clock This Evening
i
IB The second day of the Harvest Fes
tj tlval and Fashion Show opened quiet
V y this morning-, with weather con
ID dltions ideal for the further conduct
I of the lengthy program. Anticipating
I that a rest would be needed both by
I participators in and auditors of, last
I night's big features of entertainment,
I no other events of marked importance
j were scheduled by the committee
prior to the baby show,
p Of interesting recreation of a light
t er nature, however, there was a-plen-l(
ty. Several bands were kept busy
! concertizlng throughout the day and
while this music was being enjoyed
I by the people in the center of the
5 city, hundreds of others, especially
:j out-of-town people, took advantage of
t the "open house" courtesy offered by
i the local factory managements and
j passed the day to advantage inspect
j lng the city's industrial plants,
s Boys in a Race.
1 Turned loose at noon from school,
H by the good graces of the board of
4 education, several thousand children
j augumented the Fashion Show crowds
; on the street in the business district
this afternoon. They came to witness
and participate in the special progTam
I prepared for them by the entertain
. ment committee. This program was
I J conducted by Gene Carr and Jos.
I I Scowcroft, Jr., under the supervision
of Presidont Albert Scowcroft.
I 5 The first event was the boy's roller
i j skating race, on Washington avenue
j j between Twenty-fourth and Twenty
fifth streets. The winner was Alton
i Halverson, his prize being a pair of
I roller skates. Second and third prizes,
two pair of Never-Rip overalls, were
won by Lewis and Clyde Miller, broth
ers, The girls race was abandoned
for lack of entrants.
The Marathon race closed the
youngsters' program for the day and
; Interest in this event was intense.
More than 150 boys left the tape to-
gether at 2:30 o'clock and nearly two-
thirds of these covered the circuit,
s The winners of first, second and third
places were "William Seavers, Harold
:! Rand and Sid Bybee, respectively
3 Seavers was presented with the gold
I S medal, Rand with a pair of roller
skates and Bybee with a pair of
gloves.
In recognition of the gameness of all
of the boys who finished, President
Albert Scowcroft presented each one,
05 in all, with a 25-cent pieco.
Baby Show.
Shortly after the finish of the mara
thon race, the interest of the crowds
was turned to the city hall park,
where, in a screened enclosure, the
baby show is now being conducted.
Several hundred babies, of the ages,
races, etc., required by the competi
tion lists were lined up on the spac
ious lawn by solicitous attendant?,
who anxiously anticipated the result
of tho close "once over" their charges
were scheduled to receive from the
judges.
"When the baby show is concluded,
comparative quietness will reign until
G:30 o'clock, the time set for the as
sembling of automobiles for that sec
ond local Fashion Show classic, "The
Illuminated Parade." From all indi
cations, this will raise last year's
standard to a measurable degree, as
suranco of the participation of many
automobilists with their cars, having
been given the committee. The cars,
too, it Is anticipated, will set a new
standard in decorations.
Tho closing attraction of the even
ing will be the dancing at the "Jit
ney" hall on Hudson avenue, the suc
cess of which last night, with the
Mountain Echo girls' band as the at
traction, far exceeded the most san
guine expectation of the financiers
who were in charge. The dance to
night will run from 7 p. m. to 1 a. m.
Thatcher's eight-piece orchestra will
furnish music from 7 to 10 and the
girls' band the remainder of the eve
ning. Tomorrow's calendar is virtually
choked with big events. The Indus
trial parade will be the feature-of the
morning and promises to be bigger
and better than ever. Then will come
the big barbecue on Hudson avenue,
the matinee dance for tho children, fn
the "Jitney" hall and many other va
rieties of entertainment.
The fireworks will be set off at
Twenty-sixth street and Tyler avenue,
beginning aL 7:30 tomorrow evening.
Brigham Young's Bed.
Among the many features of spe
cial interest to be seen in the indus
trial parade tomorrow morning, will be
a bed that was once tho property of
Brigham Young. It was made for the.
famous Mormon leader in 185S by
Ramsey and Bell, the cabinet-makers
who did the cabinet work and carv
ing on the Salt Lake Tabernacle or
gan. The, bed is of native pine and
I Official Program j
I ; Friday, September 8.
J : 8 a. m. to 6 p. ra. "Open house" at various Ogden factories.
2 10 a. m. Roman chariot race on "Washington avenue.
Ml 1:30 p. m. Roller skating races on Washington avenue.
2?- l 2:30 p. m. "Marathon" race.
si jj 3 p m Baby show, 500 babies, in Central park.
I if 7:30 p. m. Decorated and illuminated automobile parade.
II 7 p. m. to 1 a. m. Jitney dance on Hudson avenue.
'
M ' Saturday, September 9.
'ij f 10:30 a. m. Industrial parade, participated In by business houses,
I fraternal associations and private individuals.
I 1 12:30 p. m. Monster barbecue on Hudson avenue, with sufficient food
j to feed the multitude.
3 p m. Broncho busting, catching of greased pig and climbing of
I greased pole. , .
1 7:30 p. m. Grand display of 11 reworks at east end of Twenty-fifth
street.
1 I The patriotic parade will be held tonight at 7:30 o'clock. The parade
f I will start at Twenty-seventh street and Washington avenue, move north
J on Washington to Twenty-second street, then counter-march to "Washlng-
U - ton avenue at Twenty-fourth street to Wall avenue, south on Wall avenue
. to Twenty-fifth street, east on Twenty-fifth street to Hudson avenue,
I ; north on Hudson avenue and disband at the Alhambra theater. The order
I i of the parade will be as follows:
j I First Division Chief of police, two mounted police, mayor and com-
1 missioners, parade committee, Governor Spry and staff, Salt Lake cadets
and band Spanish war veterans and G. A. R., Ogden high school cadets,
h ?f Continental Congress float, American history pantomimes, Washington,
1 ;( Lincoln, Roosevelt, Taft, Bryan, Wilson.
f Second Division Ogden band, municipal employes, fire department,
! University club, Weber county employes, posloffice employes and post-
i i master.
Third Division fraternal section Band, Odd Fellows, American Yech
'i men, Woodmen of 'the World, Knights of Maccabees, Owls, Sons of Her-
man, Modern Woodmen, Eagles, Knights of Pythias.
Fourth Division, women's section Mountain Echo Ladies' band, Liter-
; ary club of Ocden 200 women and girls representing every state in the
union, Uncle Sam.M. McKay; Liberty, Ortel Rich: Bee Hive girls, Daugh-
K tersr of the Pioneers, Women of the Woodcraft. Pythian Sisters, nurses,
K Ladles of the Maccabees, Royal Neighbors.
m . f Fifth Division-Band, Southern Pacific Railway company, D & R. G.
Ml Railway company, O. L. & L Railway company, dining car service, bank
IB ers and clerks Model Laundry company, grocers and clerks, Troy Laun
m dry company, Bamberger's, Ogden Steam laundry, Wrights.
Sixth Division, industrial division-Band. Ogden Life Insurance asso
B elation, Auto Repair company, Lowe company, Campbell's grocery, Brown-
lng Bros., Boyle Furniture company, Ogden Packing company, Utah Cere
m al company lumber companies, Utah Power & Light company, Scowcrofts,
m Shupe-Williams company American Can company. Ogden Wholesale groc-
ery, Ogden FrnUure company, Ogden Wholesale Drug company, Read Har-
neSSSev1e1Jtah Division, comedy-Clown band, pantomimes on business men
mm of Ogden, K. C. K. institution, hayrack pnrty.
B Division One will form on Washington avenue on east side between
Mm Twenty-sixth and Twenty-seventh streets.
HE Division Two will form on West Twenty-seventh street,
fli Division Three will form on east side of Washington avenue between
m Slvls ol Fir win forT on East TwontyjelBhth street.
Vm- Division Six will form on "West Twenty-eighth street.
Division Seven will form on east sldo of Washington avenue between
Twenty-eighth and Twenty-ninth streets.
all hand carved. It was presented by
President Young to Mrs. Feramorz
Little of Salt Lake City and is now
owned by F. L. Clawson, a grandson
of Mrs. Little. Mr. Clawson is ad
vertising manager of the Ogden Fur
niture company and his historic piece
of bedroom furniture will be a part of
the exhibit to be shown tomorrow on
Jie Ogden Furniture company's float,
In the big parade.
(Continued on Page 10.)
nn
APPOINTS PALMA TO
OFFICIAL POSITION
Manila, Sept. S. Governor-General
Harrison has named as secretary of
the interior Rafael Palma who for
several years has been a member of
the Philippine commission. Governor
Harrison himself assumed the port
folio of public Instruction, Including
the bureaus of education and health.
Other bureaus hitherto included in
the department of public instruction
. have been transferred to the depart
ment of the interior. i
j oo
' GERMAN LINES
!
Enter Enemy Trenches Near
Lille and Inflict Heavy
Losses. i
London, Sept. 8, 11:45 a. m. Brit
ish troops southwest of Lille last
night raided the German trenches
southeast of Guinchy and near Fiche
bourg L'Avoue, inflicting severe loss
es on their occupants, says the Brit
ish official statement issued this afi
ernoon. The British official statement says: '
"Beyond the usual artillery activity
and some local bombing fights there
was nothing to report on the Somme
front. Two officers and 50 men were
brought in as prisoners yesterday.
"Southeast of Guinchy and near
Relchbourg L'Avoue (correct) we
raided the enemy trenches inflicting
severe casualties.
"The enemy shelled Armentiers
! (northwest of Lille) yesterday eve-,
I ning."
1 Two hundred fresh prisoners have
been added to tho 400 counted yester
day In the same region.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
between Vaux-Chapitre and the Chen-ois-
wood we made progress by means
of hand grenades. A German attack
on our Vaux-Chapitre positions '
French Repulsed South of Somme.
Berlin, Sept. 8. Via London, 4:15
p. m. French and German troops
were engaged in infantry fighting yes
terday in the region south of the river
Somme, in France, says the official
statement issued today by tho German
army headquarters staff. The French
were repulsed with great losses with
the exception of a point to the west
of Berny, where, the statement adds,
some portions of trenches remained In
the hands of the French.
British Steamer Sunk.
London, Sept. 8, 2:00 p. m. The
British steamers Strathtay and the
Elleman line steamship Tagus, have
been sunk. The crew of the Strathtay
was saved.
oo
PROMISES TO
BREMSTRIKE
James T. Waddell Has 2,700
Strikebreakers Working on
New York Railways.
New York, Sept. 8. Having frus
trated the efforts of its striking em
ployes to tie up the subway and ele
vated railways, the Interborough "Rap
id Transit company today turned its
attention to Its surface lines which
have been crippled since the strike
was declared Wednesday night.
All cars on the so-called "green
lines" representing tho greater part
of the surface system In Manhattan
and the Bronx were withdrawn at 8
o'clock last night.
When the surface cars were start
ed out again at 6 o'clock this morning
tho situation was In charge of James
T. Waddell, directing the strikebreak
ers. Mr. Waddell came here from
Chicago last night. He promised to
crush the strike In 48 hours.
"I have 3500 strikebreakers here,"
said Waddell, "and 2700 of these are
now working. They are more than
enough to control the situation."
A number of elevated trains were
attacked during the morning but in
no case was there any approach to
mob riot.
oo
Read the Classified Ads.
oo
I Read the Classified Ads.
BEGIN ATTACKS
ON TURTOKAI
Germans and Bulgarians Take
Offensive Against Ruman
ian Fortress.
GREAT BATTLE STARTS
Principal Port on Lower Dan
ube Occupied by Ru
manians. London, Sept. 8, 1 p. m. A Bulgar
ian official statement issued at Sofia,
September 4 and received here today
recounts minor engagements In Mace
donia and the commencement of tho
German and Bulgarian attacks
against the Rumanian fortress of
Turtukai, on the Danube, in which
battle the Rumanians were driven
back from the forts, leaving 100 un-i
wounded men on the field. Of the
operations on the rest of the Dobrud
ja front the report says:
"Our column operating in the direc
tion of Silistria defeated tho enemy
north of the village of Chaskeny, cap
turing eleven wagons of ammunition
of which the enemy had abandoned (
his defeat and retreat towards Silis
tria, j
"Our troops, which on September
2 captured Kurtbunar after six hours1
of fighting, yesterday (Sunday) de-
feated the enemy who was dispersed;
into the plains. The Rumanians left
on the battlefield more than six hun
dred bodies and a great quantity of
equipment and arms. We took one
staff officer and nine other officers
and 700 unwounded men prisoners.
"Our troops advancing on Dobric
defeated the enemy and threw him
back toward the east.
"Our troops marching Baltjik (a
Rumanian town on the Black sea 25
miles east of Varna) occupied a vil
lage three miles west of the town.
Great Battle Begins.
London, Sept. 8, 3:25 p. m. The be
ginning of a great battle in southeast
ern Rumania where the Russians
have taken the offensive against the I
Bulgarians and Germans, is reported
in a Rome dispatch given out by the
wireless, press.
Rumanian Occupy Orsova.
London, Sept. S, 8:58 a. m. Ru
manian troops have occupied Orsova,
an important Hungarian town on the
Danube, according to a dispatch to
the Times from Bucharest today. Ors
ova Is one of the principal ports on
tho lower Danube and has consider
able commercial importance.
The struggle Is now under way over
the whole front In Dobrudja between
the Danube and the Black sea. Fight
ing is desperate near Baltjik on the
Black sea coast about ten miles north
of the Bulgarian frontier.
This Information, the wireless dis
patch says, was received in Rome
from Petrograd.
London, Sept, 8, 3:4a p. m. An un
dated Bulgarian official report receiv
ed here today says that the Bulgarian
and German forces which are invad
ing eastern Rumania have captured
the fortress of Dobrec (Basardjlk)
and the seaports of Baltjik, Kavarna
and Kali Akra.
The occupation of Orsova by the
Rumanians is conceded In the Bul
garian statement.
CONGRESS CLOSES
LIVELY SESSION
Adjournment t 10 a. m. Fol
lowing Arduous Night
Meeting.
WILSON SIGNS BILLS
President Congratulates Lead
ers on Opportunity for a
"Well-earned Rest."
Washington, Sept. 8. Congress ad
journed sine die this morning at 10
o'clock concluding a session record
breaking In many rpspects with ap
propriations and authorizations for
the future running well toward two
billion dollars.
Congress at the session closed to
day appropriated exactly ?1,C2G,43Q,
210 which, with obligations and au
thorizations for the future makes the
total $1,858,384,485.
These figures, announced in
speeches by Representatives Fitzger
ald, New York, Democrat, and Gil
lette, Massachusetts, Republican,
were defended by the former and at
tacked by the latter as half a billion
dollars greater than any session of a
Republican congress.
As senators and representatives as
sembled from brief rests following
the arduous night session, both hous
es marked time while awaiting the
final formalities of the greatest ses
slon of congress In many respects in
history.
In closing addresses while awaiting
the arrival of President Wilson refer
ence to the long program of legisla
tive achievement, dominated chiefly
by preparedness legislation were
made. Democrats lauded the achieve
ments of the session and commended
it to the country while the Republi
cans sought to criticize alleging waste
and extravagance in spite of appropri
ations for defense.
As tho gavels were sounded to de
note the end of the session figures
showed there had been appropriated
for the year 1917 for expenditures of
the government more than $1,600,000,
000 and that authorizations had been
made future expenditures which
would bring the grand aggregate of
appropriations almost to the $2,000,
000,000 mark. Administration cham
pions in Informal reviews of the con
gress answered Republican taunts of
a "two billion congress" with declara
tions that the United, States is a "two
billion country."
Senate Begins Session.
The senate began its session at 8
a. m. following an adjournment at 1
a. m. upon the passage of the revenue
.-emergency bill. At the outset Senator
James Hamilton Lewis sought to
have passed the Spanish war widows'
pension bill. Senator Hoke Smith of
Georgia announced that such a meas
ure could not pass for several years
If he could prevent it.
Senator Owen then addressed the
senate on his corrupt practices bill.
I In withdrawing the bill Senator
Owen said that the Democratic party
had broken Its platform pledges relat
ing to such an act, but charged that a
Republican filibuster was responsible
for the dilatory tactics which had
prevented a vote.
"I profoundly regret that the lead
ers of the Republican side have taken
a position against this bill," said he.
"There is nothing about it that could
not have been adjusted and it ought
to be notice to the moral element of
the country what it .may expect in tho
coming election."
Senator Chamberlain Protests.
Senator Chamberiain of Oregon,
protesting against tho action of the
revenue conferees In striking from
the bill his amendment which would
prohibit the admission of Pacific
ocean halibut and salmon through a
foreign country except in bond from
an American port, declared congress I
had surrendered opportunity to devel
on a great American industry.
"Talk about a lobby influencing con
gress," he cried, "what is that when
a distinguished gentleman represent
ing the Canadian government, Sir Jo
seph Page, while he may have not be
seiged congress, has been besieging
officials of this government to dis
courage this measure."
Senator Curtis offered another reso
lptlon directing tho senate "lobby
committee" which has been In exist
ence for several years and has never
reported, to Investigate the alleged
foreign lobby. Senator Chamberlain
. urged its adoption.
Homestead Grazing Bill Passes.
The homestead grazing bill was
passed without record vote. It already
had passed the house. It provides for
stock raising homesteads, raising the
maximum area which may be entered
for that purpose from 160 to 640
acres.
In a statement issued following the
adjournment of congress, President
Wilson called attention to the "help
ful and humano legislation' passed
and declared while he regretted addi
tional legislation dealing with the re
cent dispute betwen the railroads and
their employes had not been complet
ed, he had every reason to believe
the subject would be taken up after
congress re-assembles.
The president's statement follows:
"A very remarkable session of con
gress has just closed full, as recent
sessions of congress have been, of
helpful and humane legislation which
constitutes contributions of capital,
Important to the defense, tho econo
mic progress and the whole life of tho
country.
"It is to be regretted that the ses
sion could not have continued long
enough to complete the program re
cently projected with regard to labor
disputes between the railways and the
employes, but it was not feaslblo In
the circumstances to continue tho ses
slon any longer and therefore only
the most impressive parts of tho
program could bo completed.
"The rest has merely been post
poned so It can be more clearly debat
ed and perfected. I have every reason
to believe that it iB the purpose of
the leaders of tho two houses immedi
ately upon the re-assembling of con
gress to undertake this legislation. It
is evident that the country should be
relieved of the anxiety which has
been created by recent events with
regard to the future accommodation
of such disputes."
VILLA'S MOVE IS
NOT CONFIRMED
Field Headquarters, American Pun
itive Expedition, Mexico, Sept. 8.
Border reports concerning Villa's move
through the Santa Clara canyon to
ward Laguna have been not confirmed
by investigation, General J J. Perah-
Barbecue, Potato Bake I
aid Corn Roast to be I
Big Event of Celebration I
Thomas G. Burt, Chairman of Barbecue-
At 4 p. m. today, before a crowd and
with a motion picture machine record
ing the action, two of the finest beeves
ever raised In this section of tho coun
try were placed in the big brick open
air oven on Hudson avenue, to be
roasted for tho barbecue tomorrow.
, ing, commander of the American pun
itive expedition announced tdday.
General Pershing returned to field
headquarters after completing Inspec
tion of tho camp conditions on the
border.
"I am delighted with conditions my
inspection disclosed," he said. "Tho
troops in Mexico are in the pink of
condition and their moral standing
leave nothing to be desired.
ACTIVE WARFARE
ON SOMME FIONT
French Report Violent' Attacks
by Germans to Regain
Ground.
GAINS ARE MAINTAINED
War Office Announces Ar
tillery Fighting on Greek
Macedonia Front.
Paris, Sept. S (12:20 p. m.) Re
newed and particularly violent, at
tacks were made by the Germans on
the Somme front last night in an ef
fort to regain ground won by 'the
French. Tho war office annnounced
today that the German assaults were
futile, the French holding their ground
everywhere.
The text of the French official state
ment says:
"On the Somme our artillery activ
ity continued north of the river.
"South of the Somme enemy at
tacks on positions won by us from
Benry to south of Chaulftes resulted
only in considerable losses for him.
Between Vermandovlllers and Chaul
nes alone the Germans launched no
fewer than four massed attacks.
Everywhere we maintained our gains.
"The German attacks were made in
strong force on the front between
Berny and Chaulnes south . of the
Somme. Fighting was especially
heavy between Vermandovillers and
Chaulnes. The Germans preceded
their infantry assaults with intense
bombardments."
The Germans also made an attempt
to regain tho ground won by the
French on the Verdun front between
Vaux-Chapltro wood and Chonols,
The beeves were the gift of Simon j R
Bamberger to the barbecue committee I II
and were selected from over 260 head I
at the plant of the fDgden Packing J
and Provision company. With four (
lambs, two of which were donated by
(Continued on Page 7.)
where nearly a mile of the German j 111
first line positions were carried. The In
official report says the German on- ,1d
slaughts were unsuccessful. j J
Fierce Fighting In Macedonia. l
Pnrls, Sept, 8 (8:20 a. m.) Violent "HI
I artillery fighting is under way on the jlj
front in Greek Macedonia, the war of- jlr
fice announced today. The principal jl
engagements are in progress on the Jjw
Struma front in the region of Mount ifc'
Beles and in the vicinity of Lake 1 IT
Doiran. H
-oo
INVESTIGATED
Resolution by Senator Curtis i
Passed by Senate j
Today. j
REPORT NEXT SESSION T,
Committee to Investigate or- 1 1 j
eign Lobbying on Rev- 1
enue Bill. J :
Washington, Sept. 8. A resolution t rj i
by Senator Curtis of Kansas direct- 1 J
lng tho senate lobby committee to in- J I
vestigate the activities of the foreign j ' U
lobbying opposing the retaliatory pro- ii 1
vision of the revenue bill against Ca- , 1
nadian fisheries, was passed today by I
the senate. The resolution was 1
adopted after had the senato disposed j3
of a similar resolution by referring it
to a committee. The new resolution ; J
adopted provides for a report at the ' ij
next '"session of congress. 9
Senator. Reed, Democrat, a member ( I ;
of the lobby committee, said he be- j 11
Heved it was high time to show other J 31
nations that it regarded as offensive f Jl
any efforts to influence legislation in j Ml
congress. ! ii
Senator Lewis, Democrat, urged H
that if anything should be lnvestigat- j JB
ed, it should be the recent demands of 'ill
Japan on China. He declared that AtM
apparently they were in retaliation to , Jf VM
the attitude of this country toward 3iW
admission of the Japanese. iwm
Read tho Classified Ads. T l
oo 1 M
Read tho Classified Ada. i Kjfl
