1 . .
LIBERAL, SEWARD COUNTY, ICA.NSAS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916
Tenth Year, Number 16
$1.50 Per Year.
ABOUT CITY MAIL DELIVERY
Congressman Jouett Shouse In'
forms this office that the matter of
city mall delivery will be taken up
' again by the postofflce department In
; the near future. This was investl-
' sated last fall by a postofflce lnspec
tor, who reported negatively to the
'department on account of Insufficient
: street crossings, street signs and
' house numbers. It was not given up
completely at that time but was
-merely abandoned until the city had
compiled with the requirements of
he department governing such cases
The city has recently supplied a num
ber of crossings, street markers are
now being placed at nearly every In
ttersectlon, and the only thing In the
way is the number of houses that
'have not been numbered or on which
(the numbers have become destroyed
'This should be attended to at once In
'order to obviate another delay In the
matter. Liberal will use at least
two carriers If the town gets free
taail delivery, which will add that
much to the town's monthly pay-roll
(and give it an added prestige among
tthe other towns besides. The post
office department Is now willing to
do its share in the matter and the In
stallation of delivery service rests en
tirely with the people of Liberal. Will
-we make an effort to bring It about,
or will we again let it become burled
In the archives of the pastofflce de
partment, where chances for Its fU'
jture resurrection are mighty slim?
Don't for Fair Week
Next week Is Fair week and In or
der to avoid accidents incident to the
crowded condition of the avenues and
streets of Liberal, Chief of Police J.
O. McMurry has submitted a few
"'don'ts' which should be observed.
Therefore,
Don't run your auto with the muf
fler open.
Don't back out of parks on Kan
sas avenue.
Don't park within 10 feet of the
crossing and If driving a team don't
bitch on Kansas avenue unless to
load or unload.
Every car should park with right
side to curb on every street, except
the middle parking in blocks desig
nated on Kansas avenue. And above
all do not exceed the speed limit of
12 miles on the street and 5 miles
crossing the street walks.
. If you follow these suggestions
you follow the rule of "safety first"
and will see the Fair with the feeling
that you have helped to lessen the
liability for accidents.
The Price is Always $17
Since the European war started, prices have been on the rampage. You can count cn
your band the necessities whose prices you know to be the same, today as two years ago.
STYLEPI-US CLOTHES $17
THE SAME PRICE THE NATION. OVER
are an American institution and they are true to their trust, "the makers made a pledge to the
American public, namely: to make clothes whose style and quality would be a revelation and
the price was to be $17.00 the nation over. The war came on but the popularity of Styleplus
$17 had grown so fast that their lower manufacturing cost, as a result of the volume, has enabled
the makeri to put out these guaranteed clothes at the same old price $17.
See our new fall clothing then dont overlook our new
fall suits in "Stein-Block" for smart dressers
Millinery Department
Have you seen the ladies flocking around
the millinery department? Don't fail to
meet Mrs. Pearl Deujrnyer, who is an artist
in her line and who' thas had much experi
ence in large millinery departments.
"38 Years' Successful Merchandising"
CHAS. SUMMERS & SONS
olfcStassst-,
SrVMplut f7
LIBERAL, KANSAS
GUYMON, OKLAHOMA
DALHART, TEXAS
ARRANGED A REST BOOM . r
The Feinberg dry, goods store has
fixed up a very commodious rest
room for out-of-town visitors during
the Fair. Suit cases and luggage can
be left there and will be taken care
of without charge, and a lady will be
In charge to assist and look after the
comfort of the ladles and children.
This will be a decided convenience
for those who have to come for some
distance to take In the sights and
transact business matters, and the
management of the store should be
commended for It.
THE STRIKE IS OFF
Congress passed the' eight-hour
Tailroad law late Saturday afternoon
and the big strike of trainmen has
been declared off. The new law Is
"known as the Adamson bill, and goes
Into effect December 1, which was
exactly what the unions wanted. It
was about the fastest law making our
congress has ever Indulged In, and
the members perhaps figured there
-would soon be blood on the moon if
they didn't come through in a hurry.
SPECIAL MUSIC
At the Christian church next Sun
day the choir will be assisted at both
morning and evening services by a
splendid orchestra of seven pieces.
It Is planned to make the music at
this church a feature during the fall
and winter months. Last Sunday
Miss Sarah Thompson sang a beau
tiful solo at the morning service. The
public is cordially invited.
A baby girl was born to Mr. and
Mrs. L. M. Ounn Saturday. '
U WplP-frYour old Watch
lMx XW- New One.
IS NOW.PART OF THE CITY" '
At the regular meeting of the cltv
council Tuesday night the Sunnyside
adition was taken into the corporate
limits of the City of Liberal. The
water mains, electric light and tele
phone lines will be extended into the
new addition, and everything is be
ing done to provide it with all the
conveniences enjoyed by other parts
of town. John Baughman even had
the nerve to suggest that the sewer
system be extended through It, but
failed to get the deal over. How
ever, the lot sale is going on and
already a number of lots have been
sold and building will be started on
most of them in the near future. On
another page of the Democrat you
will find a half page ad. telling all
about it. Look It over.
IJJIJiJUl..
When you bring us your broken watch or anything else that
needs fixing we'll fix it right; or if it cannot be fixed right we
will tell you so plainly. Altho we repair things right we charge
a moderate price. When we sell you a watch or clock it will be
a reliable time keeper. We carry the largest line of watches
and clocks in this part of the country. Our prices are right
and the quality is there.
O. J. WILKINS, Jeweler
At Taylor s
WANTS TO PUT IN A STREET CAR
J. L. Eubank of Beaver county has
been in town Interviewing the busi
ness men relative to putting In a
street car or two on the streets of
Liberal. His plan is to run a motor
car suitable for seating about eigh
teen passengers, which is to have the
right of way In the center of the
streets, and have precedence over all
other traffic. Only certain streets
would be used and it is expected to
make the rounds every thirty min
utes. We have not learned what de
gree of encouragement he has re
ceived from the business ben Inter
viewed nor whether there is any like
lihood of the system being installed.
Many of them prefer to wait a few
years until the city is large enough
to have paving and then put in a real
system that runs on Its own tracks.
WON TWO LOVING CUPS
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Taylor returned
Sunday night from Boston, Massa
chusetts, where they attended the
fourteenth annual convention of Rex-
all dealers. Charlie brought back two
loving cups as prizes in contests. One
was a "tug of war" in which the St.
Louis team, of which Charlie was a
member, was the winner, and the
other was "Sparring on the Mast,"
whatever that might be. Charlie
says, however, that both contests
were real strenuous for a man who
is accumulating his weight of avoir
dupois. He reports a fine trip and a
royal time at the convention, and ac
cording to the writeups in the Bos
ton papers of those dates, copies of
which he has, it must have been a
great affair.
Kissrarrs picnic a success
The picnic at Kismet Monday was
a success, being as well attended as
was expected. Since the recent rains
have enabled the farmers to work
the ground, many of the farmers who
had not as yet been able to do their
work before were in their fields. But
there were hundreds of visitors at
Kismet. The committee in charge
had prepared an interesting program.
The Meade band was present and
played merrily the entire day. The
main street presented the appearance
of a fair grounds with the lemonade
and ice cream stands, the novelty
stores, the merry-go-round and the
doll racks. The crowds were good
natured, no trouble reported.. The
feature entertainments were the po
tato race on horseback, the nailing
contest by the ladles, and the base
ball game, Kismet vs. Plains.
The town of Kismet is demanding
attention of the outside world by rea
son of its prosperity and the activi
ties of its business men and boosters.
The town is making a substantial
growth and has long since outgrown
Plains, which was for years the only
town between Meade and the Capital
City of the Southwest.
The business men and the boosters
of Kismet are to be congratulated for
their efforts in entertaining the peo
ple at least once a year. Last year
they had a barbecue and the sue
cess of that venture will ever be re
membered. These annual get-together
affairs are helpful to any
town, and Kismet will get its share,
and it deserves all the prosperity In
the world. Ray Millman.
CAMP MEETING GOING ON
A ten-days' camp meeting, under
the auspices of the Southwestern
Interdenominational Camp Meeting
Association, is in progress at the big
tent near the Friends church, and a
'good attendance is reported at each
service. Several prominent minis
ters from different parts of the coun
try are assisting in the meeting, and
good sermons and music are being
enjoyed by the people of Liberal.
Quite a few have made confessions
and It U hoped the meetings will re
sult In much good for both the con
verts and the general public.
The county commissioners met In
regular monthly session this week.
The proceedings will pe published
next week.
EMMA E. MANN
The Mechano-Therapeutist Doctor, Is
the only lady Drugless Doctor In this
part of the Southwest. Visit her and
talk to her about yoiir ailments.
Consultation tree. Office, 108 South
Grant ave, Liberal, Kansas. adv
" EX-GO V. ST. JOHN DIES '
John P. St. John, one time gover
nor of Kansas and candidate for
President of the United States on the
Prohibition ticket in the late eighties,
passed away the last of the week at
his home in Olathe, Kansas. It was
under Governor St. John's adminis
tration that Kansas passed her first
prohibition law, and that law, al
though frequently violated, has never
been repealed. He was the grand old
man of the Prohibition movement,
and was active on the lecture plat
form until a few fonths ago, not
withstanding his age, which was over
80 years. His funeral was held at
Olathe Monday, at which speeches
were made by Governor Capper, for
mer ' Governor Hodges, and other
prominent men of the state and the
Prohibition party.
Wesley H. DeVoll and Mrs. Min
erva B. Jenkins, both of Liberal,
were united in marriage at the pro
bate judge's office last Sunday,
"Parson" Campbell performing the
ceremony.
SOUTHWEST FAIR NOTES
Don't forget, your town Is on exhi
bition during fair week. Clean up
everything about your premises, and
make the most presentable appear
ance possible.
Liberal will probably see the
greatest crowds she has ever known '.
next week. This will necessitate ex
treme care to avoid accidents. Let -our
motto be "Safety First." A few
minutes a day devoted to safety will
be the greatest safeguard again ac
cidents. Thursday, September 14, will be
Oklahoma Day. It Is hoped that
every merchant will decorate his win
dows to show a welcome to the Okla
homa visitors. The Rock Island will
carry a special car from Dalhart on
No. 4 on this day and it will probably
bring a number of people who might
not otherwise have attended the fair.
Don't forget the parade Wednes
day, September 13. From a patriotie
standpoint every merchant and busi
ness man In Liberal should partici
pate in this event, as our visitors
will expect to see a big parade, and
will expect It done In the usual Lib
eral way. Tou should participate.
The Fair Begins Tuesday and
closed Friday. For the four days
viBttors should be shown special at
tention and every courtesy possible.
They should be made to feel that our
town is Liberal In its treatment of
strangers, as well as In name.
BIG PARADE NEXT WEDNESDAY
The trade and floral parade will be
formed on west First street, at 1.
o'clock. Will m6ve north on Kansas'
avenue to Sixth street; thence west
to Lincoln avenue; south to Third
street; west to Grant avenue;, south
to Second street; east to Kansas ave
nue; south to First street.
The line will be formed as follows:
Fire Department, Liberal band, city
officials, queen of the fair, commer
cial floats and cars, comlcal.floati and :
riis lodge floats and ar, autfl.deal-.
"era' demostratlons, beauty contest
floats and cars, pony Carts, dog carts,
clown band.
Every merchant and business man
In Liberal should participate in this
event. If time will not permit ot
extensive ', preparation all citizens
should enter their cars or delivery
wagons even If there IS nothing more
than a small sign painted on the side.
A big crowd is expected in Liberal
to see this parade, and if the weather
is favorable It will be a big day for
the fair and for the visitors.
Motion pictures will be taken of
the parade, and the pictures will be
shown at the Majestic Theatre about
ten days following the fair.
ROOMS WANTED FAIR WEEW
During the fair there will be a
great demand for rooms and the
Chamber ot Commerce Is preparing
to handle the situation. They have
advertised to furnish rooms to the
visitors and have requested them to
call at that office. If you have any
rooms to let, call the Chamber of
Commerce and let the secretary put
you on the list.
DONT KNOCK
If you cannot be a booster,
don't do anything
This Bank Will
Close at Noon
September 14-15
for the F-A-I-R
First National Bank
LIBERAL, KANSAS
Member of The Fedtral Reserve Bank of Kansas City, and
operating under U. S. Government supervision and control.
