I I
J rThen a Merchant fif Slgffe' ' Advertising:
noting' ..... Ill ll II ill II lfm2$!mNH h. m II II tit make It pn.fltnb p. Onr-c-you have , ftlH
M w,kJu..tih-rtr..na,flh.th 1 II I I PT?HS5PK) I I I I ,,r,ei. right .,,, will flml It eompar- uH
i, ',r.:.m ;:, "n. ":::;"-::" politically, republican. - : irzrzrrz M
, .g tl.it l worth n.lvertWi.g Bntered , e. ..ml-CUss Matter June 4 1915 at the Pontoffl nt Prhe Ctnh fnder tlio Act of March 3. 187 rVi' M.iri't" . .r'.m .. m In 'vurchcme. i 1
, UMJMb2. MJMHfclM.i EVERY FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 8. 19.10 "1
THE KANSAS CITY I
STOCKJIARKETS
cum iti:n:iiTs dimp to i.itss
rinx oMM'oritTii.
Ulhl I tint (.'iiiimiI II)' t'liccrtninl)
liilc lai"! WrH Hrgnnlliiic Tlitvnt
cnnl Itnllnmil Mrike lileveii Cur
of minlnglmin Mccrw I'rom (irand
Count) 'HI rniiml Seven Dollar.
T S n Hpeilal Hervliv
KANtUH CITY, Mo., hppl t Cat
tit r, dpi dropped to KK00 head to
di uIiIlIi Ik lr tliuii one-fourth of
a !i iriniil September MoihIh run
h-tf The light run wn enured ly
itif rtfllnt) late lat week regarding
th thriatcned railroad Mrlkc The
market wit Mriing to fifteen cent
hlxhrr thnn the clone I'rlda). lie
rtipt were largely from nptirhy
point tlu Panhandle contributing
V.-artl. nlly nothing. However, eleven
rtri of Hip Cunningham ntccm from
ThompKitnt (lltnh) nrrlvpil, nml wild
iirlghl to klllrrit nt 17.00, 995 pound
veragr A xlilpmcnt of Iilulin enttle
hrr totlny contained rough tecr nt
17 IS, nil pniinilK, nml cow nt 16.40,
1(10 imiiiiiiIk. Thp fnll tocker nml
tti.tr id miinil promluc to In vrry
hMy here In Augimt 113,000 head
of 3toikrr nml fppilpni uprp IhiurIu
tott nml nhlpppil to country polnU.
ll lompori'il with f 1,000 In AitKUnt
Uit )rnr
Shnp rpi'plplrt WiTp 3H00 held,
tiurkil flftppii to tucnty-tlvp ipntn
blcliT follow Intc nil up nnl down
nurkrt limt wppk. Top Inmlm linnmht
110 GO, ii h eompiirpil with top of
110 SO In t'hlciiKo today nml II0.3&
H 'Itnnlm Hit pur of I'lnlt liml
trtouicht thp lop, Mr, MorKim from
Htl' r 71 pouiidd nrriiKP, with n
13 per iviit ort to fppilrr Iiiiith. Arl
p)n UiiiIhi hroiiKlit ttO.SS lodu Thp
d-rnnnd for fppilltiK ftork In (Ironif,
tamiiN worth IV.CS to 110,10 rrci'iitly.
in'l ,Vu MpxIi'o fppilliiK ypiirllnRK to.
das nt 17 13, nUty-nlx poumln ncr
VounK lirppillnif puph hpII up to
1100. Kood lini'drm nt 17.(0 to H.60,
ttirtn IS.00 to 10. CO. Iti'CtlptK
promluc to Im Unlit Ihtp tliln full, not
luff k lent to iniM't tilt ilitiunml, whlrh
will im-nn n Mtroni; ninrkri rlitht
i ni;
Uok roivlptH tinfit wiri only 3100
h'vl nml prlcpn wprp flfti-pn to twpn-tj-tlip
i'piiIm IiIkIiit. Orilrr luorrn
MM IIO.X0 for I'ont IlKht wpIkIUn,
A 110,71 for uipilluin ui-IkIiU. whlln
It krm pulil up to 110.70 Hulk of
s'. iIin nniKPil from 110,(0 to f 10.70,
T ') In Kt Jouppll loduy wiin flO.OS,
''malm 1 10.40. Krcplpln nre runnliiK
Dfliter thnn hi-rttoforc, mid thp ltu
Uiii rpninlni nlronic for nollrr.
FIDE PREVENTION MY
I'roi luiniitloii lly lloiiTiior hpr) Will
llr Ihnuixl.
Tor thp liikt thrpp or four piiri
n William Hy Iiuh Unuril u prop
Itmitlon to thii ppnplp of Utah for
th holdltiK of lflri prevention duy.
hih full thUpiir on Ortolii-r Bth.
loi'rnor Hpry wII(hiiup nnothiT nuch
CrocLimntlon thla ear, ncrordlnif to
John Jnmpw, ktutp InBuruncp commln.
Ijiut. who U nlremly tronily mho
rllni! thp ntiHcrvniu'p of thii oci'imluii.
rlr prppntlon tUy In not niddn liy
(h Krurnor to imphanlzp the neciN
llv for purp nml prppnutlon In thp
mtt(r which leuil to flren. A John
JmoH hujm, "It U n patent fait that
'lr nrp of frfiupnt oomirrpiu-p, uml
"'o iiini'H of tliPNP flrpN ii h kUpd III
ffflilal report plainly ilpmonntrutn
hat many of thrm nrlio Ihraiish
' in Ic-.MUfKK and nro therefore pre
ntuhlp,
If thlM In the pane," tui)n JaineN,
eir opportunity Nhould he oxer
" " ' h) the xtate to hrlnif before the
wirun of the people thii nerewiUy for
'' nml proper caution to utop the
"mnuniie wantn by fire. it
Mnny flreN are lartuil through
rar. irNNnvMi in the uao of IlKhteil
"HP-hen. vgur nml Burette Ntulm
ar leiMley thrown snide."
"n fire. proentlon day peclal leu
' "i ure Klten In the public nchools
id upeolal drllU are held In the
h o bulldlnKN. The HpeucheN of the
will be devoted to the prevention
flreN through the proper uoundlng
' fire nlarniH, elimination of whbUh
md rombusttble material! from back
,ar,li. alleys und contlguou open
'Pact a to Impede tho progreN of
rr and prevent IU spread to adja-
ft building.
- -' , - . AND THERE IS NO FOOD BLOCKADE HERE. fl
PROPOSITiOiN TO BR IN E Mil I FROM
COLTQN WILL BE PUT UP TO COUNCIL
The plat of the Wllllanm uddltloii
him I ni' n intupleti'il und wun present
ed to the city roundl nt Tucudny
iiIkIu'h iiipptluR. After the timml for
iniillllfH ure attended lo the plat will
no doubt be iii'i'i'ptpil nud filed. Thin
uddltloii ll betwpeii the railroad
rlshl of wuy und the Powell addition
uml opeiiM illriH'tly Into Ninth utreet.
Morgan King, polllax polleetnr, re
turned u Hut of twent)-four muiien
ilellii'iuput In polltiu pu)inpitN, und
the wiine were turned uer lo the
pit) attorney for collection.
Home half iloreu renldenlM of K
street, between fifth and Third, anked
that the Heelrlo light nervlee be ex
Ipudid to their properties The mut
lir uii referred to Hie electric com
mlllie. The rniiieHt of Mix. II. W, Mlllburn
to coiixlriu-l wagon wale on Klghth
l reel near the corner of Main wnn
SHOPHElT SEEK INCREASE
Ncgollutlou On llclMivii Wotcrn
Miicm mill Tliclr Kmplojc,
rilllJAOO. Hept. 7. Uallwu) exe
cuIIVm of twenty-two WeNtern Hum
today ri'HUUieil negotlatloilN ut Chlia
go, Kiiiimin City und eUewhere with
repreKentatlwM of twvnty-fle Hiuuh
and Nhopmen who are neeklug higher
puy und rediicul houm The nhopmen
ure negotiating with the Hindu Hlmul
taneinuly, but not colleutl.el). The
tradeN repreented Include maihlnll,
ulieet metal orlier, blackmnllliN and
their helpern.
The ilctnaiiiU. uciordlng to railway
exeeutlveH, are for nn lnrene of fho
rentH nu hour In wage and for an
eight-hour da). The lnureu and
time reduction, uccordlns to railway
offlululN, would total perhapN three
million dollar n ear. Where tho
open "hop pulley obtain, the railway
nre dealing with the nhopmen not u
union but a representative of the
emplo)e.
Among the railroad nffectul are
the Chicago. Ilurlington and Qulncy;
Chicago, Hook Islam) and I'uclflc;
Colorado und Houthern; Colorado
Midland! Denver and Itlo fJrande;
l'ort Smith and Wetern; Wabah,
Tranmlilppl Terminal; Toxa I'u
clflc; HL Ioul and flan KrancUco
(I'rlnco line); Kt. Jovepli and Grand
Inland; Mlwourl, Kanw nnd Tcxa;
MUourl Pacific and Iron Mountain;
International and dreat Northern;
Kansa Clt, Mexico and Orient, Kan-
referred to the dtreet commlltte. Tho
proportion did nut meet with much
faor from the council.
The controver)' Inxilvlng the re
cording of plat or the Potter Addi
tion ha been ndjuntcd. unit till prop
erly I now imigly embraced within
the ulty limit. ,
The council will make one more
heroin effort to Induce property own
cm to cut down the weed ami cleun
up, licr)l4dy take notice and beat
the council to It.
Ma) or llornley utatnl that In the
near future a proportion to bring two
twelve-Inch water pipe line down
from Colton would be ubmltted to
the council. Helper. ('atle (late,
Kenllworth and Price nre expected to
co-opernte In the matter. The en
gineering work I about completed
und etlmutc of the coal ure being
prepared.
hum City Southern; Kanw Clt Ter
minal, und Mlwourl and North Ar
ItannuH, Hallway official here wild they did
not believe any Kuitirn railroad were
negotiating with the nhopmen at thii
time.
IIIINVIIIl AM IIIO (illANIli:
KMI'I.t)Ylts Alti; AI'I'IKTIIli!
The Penver and Itlo flrunde hop
men have made a reiiet of the head
office of the company In Denver for
un liureuM of five icut an hour and
un eight-hour da) Tim Dcnvtr and
Itlo (Iraude niH'latlon, which I the
name of the idiopmen'ii orgnnliatlon,
Hecured tin IncreBNe for the road u
vhurt tlnm ngo of one icnt un hoir.
At that time a trlke wa threatened
by the machlnUt und Nhnpmvn, but
the Colorado rallroed commlloii In
tervened und canned the matter In
dlpute between the Nhopmen and the
railroad to bo arbitrated, The ne
gotiation In Chicago will probably ex
tend over a period of week, and it I
thought no trlke vote will bn ordered
I on Keptemlier 9th. a wn originally
l planned by the nhopmen.
At a meeting of the Price Coneert
band held last night n new builneai
organUatlon wn effected with A.
Ilurgener a leader and director; I
K. Whltmoro, manager, and K, M,
Kumner, ndvlorjr'manaKer, Theae
three will be In active charge of all
bUNlnes affair of tho band, L. A.
Lauber wa retained n Mecrctary and
i treasurer
is imp sav
Denver uml lllo (irumlc'n Chief I'll
glnccr In the CH),
J. (I (Iw)iiii, chief engineer of the
Denver and Itlo (Irnndc, came In
from the went nt Kiiuday evening
and wn n guenl nt the Tavern dur
ing hi May here thl week. An ex
amination of the track over Holdler
Hummlt (ilioH roudbid nud ralln uml
tie In excellent condition.
Mr. Owynti I one of the Important
wltncNup In the Keif hum litigation
ut Canlln (lute uguliiNl the flail I'uel
compnii), Denver nnd Itlo Orunde
railroad nud Plennant Valley Coal
cnmpnny now being thrmbed nut be
fore Judge Albert II. ('Iirlntenwin ut
Price.
AMied a to the new railroad line
out of Price to the couth nud from the
went to the rencrvutlou country, the
gentleman wun non-commltiil, "I nm
emplo)ed only to urvc)," mild he,
'Tim folk tMick In New York ralw
the money."
The Hun acknowledge a call from
Mr. (Iw)nn.
All OLDJTIMER HERE
VMtM Price After An AImmhiv of
About Tvvciil)-l'lvi Year.
T. C, Mllil. or Phoenix. Arlx., In
here thl wiek v lulling with hi nona,
K, C, Kilvvurd and 1'rancln. The bo)
I had not wen their father for ome
thing like Hlxteen ear, nnd when he
dropped In to the Mile lonnorlal par
lor IunI Haturilii evening, ''believe
me,'' It wan Home NiirprUe,
The elder Mile etahllHhcd the flrnt
mull route to the Vernal country nud
Into Ilmerj county ome twenty-five
)eur ago, In thee du)n the) rut
ucroKN the towiialte from the old depot
lo the north uboul where The Hun
building nnd the two bank now ataud,
Hlncii arriving n considerable por
tion of Mr Mile' time ha been npeiit
In visiting with old timer ami talk
ing about the early da) In Price. Mr,
Mile nt one time conducted the Mug
net tHiloon In the building Unit mood
about where Mr. J. II. Jnme' home
now U,
I There have been many change lo
cully In Price lnre Mr, Mile wim hint
here.
NiioitTAcn: or tiiaciikhk.
Hhortage of teacher In both uhurch
and itate chool In reported. Ac
cording to Hupt. II. II. Cuminlng. the
hortage I caued by leaohera break
ing contract lgned In the early
prlng for offer of moro tempting
nalarie.. Tho church nohool superin
tendent bellevea that higher alurle
throughout thl profcwlon would
remedy uch n condition and prevent
thCuiual fall panic or teacher. It I
expected that all poHltlona, however,
will be filled b) the opening cf the
fall Ktsstonu.
DRAWS BIG CROWDS 1
IN EASTERN STATES I
Hughes Proclaims Wilson Settlement of Threat-
ened Railroad Strike Paramount Issue of H
Campaign Opposes Adamson Bill. . rH
PORTLAND, Me., Spt. 7. Charles E. HukIich today proclaim- M
cd tho Wilson settlement of the threatened railroad fltrlke the par- M
amount Ihsiiu of the campaiKti. In an impaHloned Hpccch ut York H
Harbor he Htaked IiIh chance.H for the preHtdency upon his opposl- , M
Hon to the Adamson bill, by yhich the president nverted tho indus- f H
trial crisis. i t H
"I deplore the extreme," initl the republican candidate, address- ' JJ
iiiK nn audience of two thousand persons in the opcrn house nt HI
Portsmouth, N. II., "tho fact that in recent days, that principle M
(of arbitration) has been surrendered nnd I sny to you, fellow citl- H
zens, that transcendlnp; every other issue in the enmpnign Is the H
issue that has just presented itself ns to whether the government I , H
the executive nnd conKress shall yield to pressure and lcKlslate ) H
before that honest investigation which justice requires." H
And then, following this declaration with an elaboration of his H
nrgument agnlnst the Wilson measure in his succeeding address . H
at York Harbor, Mr. Hughes said: , ( ' H
"There is one thing, however, which we must always maintain, H
and that is that there shall be no action on the part of our elected H
representatives no action whatever taken under pressure nnd H
under dictation before we know what the facts ure and what i H
justice requires. ' H
WOULD RATHER HE RIGHT. ' H
"I would rather stand with that principle nnd be defeated than 4
yield one jot or tithe of it to get into office." " M
Good crowds everywhere welcomed the candidate in the three M
states Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Maine in which he ; ,H
spoke today. Hughes, still traveling under the impetus of his 'ill
Nashville speech, in which ho first struck out at the president's 'lil
etrlko policy, is now throwing nil the fire nnd force and power of ;'LJR
his being into tho campaign. lll
Ah though impelled by a spirit of desperation, he has thrown 3 tll
off the supremo court doctrinaire manner and is pounding home liiH
his arguments in true campaign fashion. He has seized upon the v 'H
Adnmson bill as tho most effective appeal from the republican r ;H
viewpoint that the party has in sight. Hi. H
CARRIES CROWDS WITH HIM. UT
Hu is beginning to carry his crowds with him. At Hevcrly, a. H
Mnss., this morning he opened the New England campaign with a : 'H
savage attack upon the eight-hour bill. The crowd, made up in ifl
part of employes from the United Shoe Machinery company, ac-
corded him liberal applause. t !fH
He was carried on thence to Hampton Reach, where he drove jl
home an elaboration of the Beverly nddrcss. Next, in tho opera Jpil
house nt Portsmouth, N. H he added fuel to the fires of his orn- ' 'jjH
tory, and as n climax he staked his chance of winning- on his de- '1
nunciation of the measure in his speech at York Harbor. JH
At York Harbor, too, the applause with which he was greeted ipl
nil through the day reached its height. Three thousand people ; 91
cheered for three minutes the Hughes "appeal to reason" nt that (llH
point. EM
Tonight he addressed in Portland what is described as one of iH
the biggest political audiences ever assembled in tho city. The f 1
crowd was cordinl, but at no time did it reach tho height of cnthus- H
iasm which tho nudiencca at Hampton Reach and York Harbor lH
displayed during the day. 4H
SPEECH OP RAYMOND RORINS. 1 j
Reforo the nominee spoke, Raymond Robins addressed the CH
crowd: "I hnvo no apologies to make for having been a democrat IIM
or n progressive," ho said, "One reason why I nm no longer n ' Iriil
democrat and do not intend to go back to the democratic party is iHiifl
because I know the democratic party too well. The economic und 'fll
social issues which confront the country ennnot bo intrusted to a 'SiH
pnrty thnt Is under Southern control. Thero nre good men and iiH
women in the South, but Southern life has not kept step with our iH
i Western and Northern life." Ilpl
Hughes tomorrow will speak nt Lewiston nnd tho politicians llH
; nre awaiting the test of the crowds in tho place where Roosevelt 'iH
1 (.poke a week ago. ijfUiM
DAVID STARR JORDAN SAYS PRESIDENT
WILSON WILL MAKE MOVE FOR PEACE I
STANFORD UNIVERSITY, Cala., Sept. 7. That definito lf.1
plans were outlined ut recent conferences between President Wil- ilB
ron and peace advocates for bringing about peaco in Europe was j IHj
the declaration mado toduy by Chancellor David Starr Jordan of , gH
Stanford University, who has just returned from Washington. Til
According to Dr. Jordan, the conference agreed that any one of Idil
three plans would be feasible : flirll
First A congress of executives of neutral nations might take nH
tho lead in bringing tho belligerents of Europe together. (Iriiiial
Second Congress miuht appoint representatives to meet with iiSHH
representatives of other neutral congresses to act. iffiiaia0
Third The United States might act independently. flMHHiiiH
