THE EAOLC
Gives you the new. today. The oth
4
f
ers tomorrow.
A.
THE WEATHER.
Tonight " and Saturday, partly
cloudy.
kiss
AND PILOT
VOL XXX. NO. 209.
BRYAN, TEXAS, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916
PRICE $4.00 PER ANNUM.
Great ' Batik is Ou h
Crisco
Is pore and wholesome
and keepsMvell in warm
weather.
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
SAYS
THRFfl
no
NONSENSE
5ov. Hiram Johnson of Callafornla
Saya Such Threats No Longer
Bother Him.
Sacramenta, Cal., Sept. 8. Oovei
nor Hiram Johnson characterized as
"nonsense" a threat made in letters
to kill him If he did not leave a large
sum of money In a designated place
near the state capltol. A man lurk
ing near the appointed time for de
positing the money denies all knowl
edge of the conspiracy. I have been
threatened so many times since I
bare been governor, that sort of thing
no longer bothers me", said the governor.
GRAND JURY MADE REPORT.
The grand Jury for the fall term.
A FILM TO PRD-
T
E IMMIGRATION
I V
mm&mi
m-i-in imxT.-.vuT.njTj-LruT.ut
YOU CAN PHONE UG
any order for groceries at any time and we'll see to it that
you get what you order, at the best prices, and delivered
with extreme celerity. , We have undoubtedly the choicest
line of canned goods including pickles and preserves that
canning and preserving factories produce. Have you tried
any? 1
The Russians ih Large Numbers Have Passed'
-Through Rumania and Have Begun a Strong
Offensive Against Bulgaria A Great Battle
Is Reported Already Begun The Bulgarian-
German Forces Have Taken Two Important
Sea Ports 1. British Aeroplane Was Shot
Down Neat Brussels British and French
Make Small Gains on Western Front.
Agricultural Commissioner Is Cc
' Operating With Company In Big
Production of Film.
(By Associated Press.)
Austin. Texas. Sept. 8. Plans have
jUBt been completed to make 50,000
feet of film showing agricultural,
commercial and historical Texas.
This film will be displayed to 30.000,
000 people throughout the . United
States for -a period of 190 nights, free.
The Idea is to promote Immigration.
At the present time Texas hat 15 peo
ple to the square mile, Illinois 101,
London, Sept. 8. The British
trM.il. I a .Ink. Uaili k. ft.Mn.M
trenches southeast of clichy, Inflict
ing severe losses, ssys tie British of
ficial statement I
The Rumanian troops I have occu
pied Orsovo, an Important Hungarian
town on the Danube, according to a
Bucharest dlspatcfc-to the London
Times, snd Vienna also reported
Wednesday that Orsovo had been oc
cupied by the Rumanians.
A British aeroplane was brought
down In a raid over Saint Denis, In
Berglum, thirty miles southeast of
Brussels, the London official state
ment says. . I
The beginning of a great battle In
Southeastern Rumania Is on, where
the Russians are taking the offensive
against the Bulgarians, It la reported
and New. York 117.
Commissioner of Agriculture Fred in , dlBpateh to the. Wire lew Press.
W. Davis and other state officials arej Renewed ,nd particularly violent at-co-operatlng
with the Taragon Fea- ek, wer madt by the Germans on
turA Film fnmninr Inn In An this . . . . . .. . .
.. . . ...... .Li. I r- .--j xns oomme front issi nigm in an ei-
-which la now In session, reported this .oru t.. is It Is Todav" will b . . , .. " . A.
, ,u , .,,. .i-r- ih.w 1 fort to fl"'" th Oround won by ths
afternoon for the first Ume since they .he tle of tne plrtlire fe
started their deliberations the first of LntoI e(,U(..,,on., ,nd .Mmo.vnarv T L are holding
ft,..-., tm. . .1. .mJ educational and eleemosynary tn, Bround everywhere, according to
tm. !. i Jl . y !'nd ,her ,n"lltutln b hown: the Pari, statement.
Jack Child., colored, murder and ea-l" " T!. 7. V,"" "ht,n " "i fact the surface line, only which have each meeting and Mr.
, IUUPULHI ITUJVIW, IIIUIUUHIK arill ,. th- M..alA.l.a MMft I. lae '. . -a.. . '
i - ... -
HOLLAND'S
QUEEN
A BRAVE SAILOR
Reid Bros.
mm
x
COIM
As was announced In The Eagle the
early part of the week, County Agent
C. L. Beason is accompanying A. D.
Hudson, assistant cotton marketing
agent, and H. M. Elliott, a rural ecc-
T
TELEGRAPH
SERVICE SECURED
Through the Efforts of Commercial
Secretary Western Union Will
Be Open at Night
On August 3rd Secretary McElroy
of the Commercial Association took
nomks agent from Washington, over Mr H F of
Vila
mintv arlrlnr 1wtnrs- sin if In. I ..
AmBterdam. BpdL 8. Oueen Wllhn.' V T. . t&e
. " ... strucuons to tne farmers bo tnat tney
Western Union Telegraph Com
mlna of Holland was present at tha i , ha?e a etter knowIedge of th, W bT,n,
.aval maneuver, yesterday V board advlint.Mi to ,be darWed from. th9 f W ""ice for Bryan.
a submarine which dived twice while I .. . . ,i Jlr- aicciroy aiso wok tne matter np
' - - General Manager English at
V V, T ,. ,.v . lDIIa8 "d tM' explained the local
work 1. 1 being done In line with th. ,ituatIon ,how, that the Commer.
work of the government cotton cl.ss- dal AMOclatIon .pprectated Tery
er. Mr. Botto. ho la aUtloned In thla much efflcent erTlca
city by the government. : ; belnlt rendered h TAr..
Mr. Elliott, the rural economics t.me. but Mkft, tnr mnttl. . .
man. la dellverinf an lntore.tln, lee- ,n order that n,sht iery,ce m,ght
her majesty waa passing.
iEWlffSlET
EFffi
CARS R
E
ture to the farmers, telling them of gren.
English advising
be supplied with
and from Yr.
aault with Intent to murder. It is al
leged that Childs killed his wife and !
tried to kill hla father-In law several
weeka ago.
Albert Rim, colored, two cases of
"burglary.
The other two caaea were for assault
with Intent to rape and assault with
Intent to murder. Neither of theae
'two partlos has been arrested and
their namea are withheld from publi
cation. The grand Jury recessed until Mon
day morning at o'clock.
scenes.
. i . . . . . i .
lU- .u7 t,uiR0. 01 .arm .uo an-, TwUy 8crUr- .McE,
AvniAlnln-T tn lhm miiiv nilnm 1 . ... .
r ' a letter rrom Mr.
they bad never beard of before. !that Bran wouI(,
County Agent Beason reported this ,nother oper,tor
morning uu macn interest ana n- j.-im lott- --ii-i. it.-
w v.rlwulH U1Q UCV -kl-
ranrement which ! tht wit hi-. h
nearly normal achedulea, according to.the county and that large crowd, had next few dt-tprobbly effective on
traction officlala, and the strike on been present at every meeting held. ,vftniTVe it.--, a r.-. . n.
the Inter-Borough lines seemed to ef-.Many queatlon. have been asked at ri.r tu L.ii , . A
Beason says tnat ntnwrt , M
Deen ilea np since me striae waa ae-.tnia la wnai uiey use. it snows tne
Subway and Elevated Nearly Normal.
Surface Car Tied Up But
Little Violence.
New York, Sept. 8. Both subway
and elevated trains are running with thuslaam - was being shown all over
Did your brother have much sue
"ts In hla laat season shooting?"
"Bagged every guide he took out till
h couldn't hire any more." Balti
more American.
A portable varum cleaner of Eng
lish Invention ran be need a. a teat
table, cabinet, music stool or pedes-taL
CONGRESS
HIED SI DIE
Broke All Recorda In Appropriations,
Totalling Nearly Two Bil
lion Dollars.
Washington, Sept 8. Congress ad
journed sine die at 10 o'clock this
morning, concluding a record break-
tying session which appropriated nearly
two billion dollars.
BaltlJIk, Kavarna and Kali Akra, In
Eastern Rumania.
HDUSTDiJ NEGRO GETS
and bricks and once with pistols.
been worth much to the farmers of
the county.
Republicans and Democrata,
their present Maine drive, have adopt
ed the 1 to 1 ratio which the war In
Europe haa eatabltahed . two cam-
1 . ... . ; . ... V r. .1 v i 1 open continuously from 8 a. m. to 19
T,- -. ciarea euneay. a numoer oi eie-jpeopia ot tne ninu aismcrs are do- p m and ftr 10 n m and h.
another French etatement eaya. I rated trains were atUcked. but noth-'comlng Interested and appreciate the fore"g m d th or k
f An undated Bulgarian statement g resembling mob disorder. Symiw-Wrta being made In their behalf. In wm ba-dled with iha JrtM"
says the Bulgsrian-Cerman forces eap.thiiera on the roofa of tenement hou- a general way. dir. Beason eays, the tlon nosslble if carrtJ I tn ih
.tured Dobrlo and the ...port, of ye. bombarded the trains with bottles j visit of th.M genUemen hers . hs. It thovght this ..m!nti
serve the present needs of Bryan, aa
the uptown office will be open until
10 p. m, after which urgent meaaages
may be sent to the tower.
It Is a matter not commonly known
that the night service given Bryan
prior to the opening of the uptowa
office was through the kindness of ths
j railroad operators and not ths regu
lar Western Union operators.
The cltltens of Bryan will appro
Waahlngton. Sept I. A resolution .c,t' B0 oibt ths service ths Con-
by Senator Curtis, directing the Sen- norciai Association haa rendered
WOMB VOTED
DEATH PElTYi
II
no
Houiton. Texas, 8ept g. Houston
otisen havm 1vn thit death
iDiisivi t m - -
penalty for killing J. A. Cain, a police
'officer.
For Second Tims Refused to Resolute
on Present Presldentisl Campaign.
uvEST GATE
II
palgn orators to every voter. New constant aim cf amiilil
Atlantic City, N. J 8epL 8. The te lobby committee to Investigate the tnera m elng thla additional serv.
X'.ii...i i . . . n . o..e-- '.. a i, . , i v m
in i .. . K iWx wUh . jtu,n- "-. vu..i n mcuTiues oi mu aiicsoa iutcisd iouuj,
.0 pieaso wi 'convention defeated by an overwhelm- opposing tho retaliatory provlalons of
or oenevoiencr, iv
York Evening Post.
son.
W .... - . . . .. , I . .... ....
r i hn. ing von a r.aoiu.ion uai mo Bssocia. tne revenue oiii against us lanaaian
1,1 "LT. JOHU . , i I . . ...
iiuu in iuo pmem oanunu campaiKo runenea, waa aaopiea
;could support only those candidate.
I
who will pledge their support to ths
' , .. A . . . L
'..u o. Aiununy ainiinuniiiiii 10 iuo
federal constitution.
e
Moon Bros Buggies
Are Life Time Buggies
BUGGIES THAT LAST A LONG TIME AFTER THE PRICE IS FORGOTTON. You
will soon need a NEW BUGGY; why not have it now?
The recent advance on buggies amounts to from $7.50 to $15.00 a buggy. Buy now
while we are in a position to sell at the old prices. (
Fortunately we have contracts for several car loads placed before the advance.
We have now the best stock of buggies we have ever owned. Good styles in cheap
buggies as well as the MOON BROS, class.
We sell for cash or on terms until October 1st we will give 10 per cent discount
for CASH. We can guarantee this big cashdiscount until October 1st only All facto
ries have another advance scheduled for that time. See our line, get our prices now!
y i
Fo Pza&K .
0 TRIAL FOR
KILLING
PREACHER
Eagle Want Ads always bring re
sults.
Trial of Mrs. Annie Foust for Kilting
Rev. Cagle Now In Progress
st Sherman.
(By AsMrlalMl Tms.)
Sherman. Texaa, Sept 8. Ths case
of Mrs. Annie Foust, charged with
killing Rev. 8. M. Cagto last Frbruarv,
Is dragging along slowly. Finis Foot.
husband of ths defendant, testified
about telling hla wife that reports
were betng circulated about her snd
i Rev. 8eagravea. another Baptist tnlnle
ter, by Rev. Cute. He waa followed
Ion ths stand by ths defendant, who
told of spending tho night In Gaines
ville when the train to Pauls Valley
was late. Rer. 8eagraves secured a
room for her st a rooming bouse, but
she never saw him again, aha testified
In response to question, by the de
fense's attorney.
Mosquitoes are gotUng so big now
that we shall soon have to change
from Insect powder to gunpowder
Charleston News snd Courier.
Complete In Every Detail
Furniture for the home from the Kitchen to the Parlor.
Medium to Highest quality. Prices doubly attractive.
The Famous Scaly Mattress.
"LIKE SLEEPING ON A CLOUD"
SOLD DY-
IV.. T. JAMES, Furnituro
1i
; j-
ill
j
1
i, w
...... ..
