i v
i hp
3
ON
r ,
VOL XXXIII NO 22
SOUTH BUSINESS
WAUSEON, OHIO, FBIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916
$1.50 PER YEAR
LIFE AT
Auditor, County
1-1-1
There are varied opinions as to the
life we are living at the moblization
camp. But no one knows exactly now
. the daily routine is carried on, ex
World Famed Penologist Speaka ln!cept those who actually participate.
Wauseon Sunday -
For Training and Environment That ; from what you could eall the outer
I world get an exaggerated mea ui n.
Will Prevent Crime.
The Christian cfcurch was packed
wiin a Urge auuA.uce last Sunday
niKht whicn sat at close attention for
abuut two hours listening to Doctor
Leonard, Superintendent of the Ohio
State Reformatory at Mansfield, while
ha pled for the establishment pf and
maintenance of such conditions as
would prevent the committment ot
young men to such institutions as the
State Reformatory, and described the
great institution at Mansfield and the
cnarkcter of the work of reformation
which is being done there. Dr. Leon
ard has an international reputation as
a penologist and ut witnout doubt the
foiemost man of the century in this
department of social and civic science.
He was very fittingly introduced by
Mr. F. II. Keighard as the "greatest
man in Ohio" and Mr. Keighard also
inrormed the audience that the insti
tution at Mansfield is a model of its
kind, officials of other states and na
tions visiting it often to study its plan
and Dr. Leonard's methods.
Dr. Leonard's basic ideas are that
there are no born criminals; that the
young child has no more sense of mor
al right or wrong than a chicken, it
is not Dora with a moral sense, that is
to be developed; that men and women
come into the world neither perfect or
imperfect feut imperfect in character.
and that there is given a Divine en-
Manv think we have scarcely any
thing to eat, and that is poorly cook
ed. I can only give facts concerning
the food we have in our own com
pany,
JURIES
Juries and Petit Juries Drawn For Oc
tober Term of Common Pleas Court
Long Term Will Open October
Ninth.
Court officials "taDned" the 1 nrv
O wine to the fact that we have wheel on Tueadav of this wppIc anH
a very competent Mess sergeant, we drew therefrom the following free
have had extra varieties of food
which possibly other companies do
not have. Our food is well cooked.
The 'grumbling arises from fellows
who are natural grumblers. It is
said that it takes all kinds of people
to make up the world. I have come
to realize that this is very true, es
pecially since one has been thrown in
constant companionship with all types
of men. At first everyone was eager
but now that has given place to dis
content. Sooner or later these young
fellows will have to realize that life
is not a huge joke, and my sincere
t)ope s that we go to the border; get
REAL service, if for no other reason
than the sake of these fellows.
PRIVATE SPADE.
First Ambulance Co., O. N. G.
JORDAN FAMILY REUNION.
The Seventh Annual Reunion of the
descendants of Josiah Syeble Jordan
was held on August 23 at the pleas
ant home of Guy Slater, on North
Main street, Adrian, Michigan. The
day was an ideal one and a goodly
number were in attendance. Dinner
was served at noon and afterwards
all assembled for the business hour.
On account of the absence of the
dowment to improve and develop. He i ET8!!en an.d th,e de?Jn of hS, Yic,e
auiri thai thh nrawnM nf I '41 tl I unnntr i President, M
men in the institution at Manahfeid ia'toolc charge,
unnatural and that they are here be
cause society has failed to use this Di
F. Jordan of Toledo
The regular routine of
business was attended to and the
following officers were elected for the
vine endowment which Mr. Leonard
likened to the fingers of a hand; the
first finger representing the home. In
vestigation has shown that 60 peri
ensuing year: v
' E. H. Jordan, President Wauseon.
Chas. A. Jordan, Vice President,
Saline, Michigan.
Mrs. Hattie Drew, Secretary, Tole
do, Ohio.
Wallace Jordan, Treasurer, Fair,
field, Michigan.
William Jordan, Chaplain, Cedar
Springs, Michigan
Lillian E. Hough, Historian, Wau-
Ohio,
cent, of the boys committed to Mans
field come from homes that have been
broken up by separation of the Father
and Mother, another large per cent, is
composed of 'boys who have been de
prived of the companionship of one
parent particularly the father. ' The
home waa characterised as the most
power and efficient force for the de
velopment of moral character and the
making of good citizens, it has no
equals.
Another finger represented organis
ed religion, the cnurcn and its teach- Dr wflliam H. Schulz, Ostepath, a
ing example and influence. Tfce third .graduate of the American School of
ringer representee organized educa-, Osteopathy at Kirksville, Missouri,
tion, the schools with their training ;nM opene1 offices jn the the Peoples
uu Bank Building. Dr. Schulz has a
' The little finger represents play or 'record of successful practice and is
recreation, while the thumb, which 'highly recommended by Dr. Gautschy
Dr. Leonard styled as an after-thought 1 of Napoleon, in whose office Dr. Schulz
holders to serve as jurymen for the
October term of Common Pleas Court
of Fulton Cunnty:
GRAND JURY
W. B. McClarren Pike Township.
Fred Hollis Swan Creek Twp.
R. B. Batdorf York township.
Charles Blaine Ambov Two.
T. C. Wardley York Twp.
Robert Edgar Clinton Two.
James Dickerson Clinton Twp.
Jacob Leininger German Twp.
Amonel Lantz German Twp.
DeWitt Williams Clinton Twp.
Ed. Cosgrove German Twp.
George Clifton Clinton Twp.
George Dudley Clinton Twp.
Albert Cline Gorham Twp.
T. H. Fraker York Twp.
The Grand Jury will meet at the
Court House October 9th, 1916, at 10
o'clock a. m.
PETIT JURY
L. T. Belding Gorham Twp.
Oliver Dunbar Royalton Twp.
r red Cottrell Gorham Twp.
J. H. Bachman York Twp.
J. E. Faubel Fulton Twp.
Orlo Whitaker Dover Twp.
Henry Bachman Clinton Twp.
Jacob Aeschliman Clinton' Twp.
Godfrey Buehrer German Twp.
William Clay Swan Creek Twp.
W. E. Clark Chesterfield Twp.
Andrew Strong Amboy Twp.
Dewey Loveland Clinton Twp.
F. A. Geesey German Twp.
Ray Carver York Twp. ' "
Frank Bloomer York Twp.
The Petit Jury will meet on Mon
day October 16th at 10 o'clock.
The place of the next reunion was
not settled on, but was left for a com
mittee to attend to.
OSTEOPATH IN WAUSEON
of creation, represents the law.
Very graphically the speaker show
ed how the proper use of all these
forces would prevent the necessity of
shutting boys up in such institutions
as that at Mansfield and he beld the
close attention as he described the
Mansfield Reformatory, the methods
has practiced. The following is clip
ped from a recent issue of the "State
Journal" of Columbus:
Although a cripple, since birth,. Miss
Frances Burke, aged 14, soon will be
able to play and walk about the same
as other children without the slightest
trace of a limp, as a result of an oper
of conducting it and the various lines !tion performed by Dr. William H.
of work that are being accomplished
in this institution. The lecture was
bountifully illustrated by the recital
of events and experiences in the life
of the institution. It was a great
man with a great subject and it is a
matter of regret that there were some
in the audience who could hear only
a small part of Dr. Leonard's lecture.
SCHOOL NOTES.
Next Monday, September 11, the
Wauseon Public Schools will begin the
work of a new year. A great many
of the boys and girls seem to be glad
that they can again have the joys that
school fun and school work bring,
The buildings and the rooms have
been thoroughly cleaned, the boys and
girls have had a long rest, and the
teachers are all full of enthusiasm.
Why should we not have a fine year
of growth and improvement?
All first and second grade pupils
will report at the high school build
ing. Prospects are good for a large Nor
mal class. These pupils will be ac
comodated in the East building this
CO-OPERATION
The publishers of the Fulton County Tribune in common
with all other country publishers are facing a serious con
dition ib the paper market; the prices are constantly going
up and there is no telling howr much higher they will go. In
this crisis we have decided to ask ,' the co-operation of our
subscribers to help us meet ftfid weather through these con
ditions. We have a list of subscribers who are pretty well
paid up, some pf them in. advance, but there are a few who
are a year or more in arrears. ViWifl you kindly examine the
label on your paper and if you are in arrears please co-operate
with us by paying up the arrearages on your subscription.
The figures on the label will tell the story; the first figure
stands for the month; the second for the day of the month
and the third for , the year, .' For instance, if your label
reads 8-20-15 it would signify that you were paid up to
August 20th, 1915. . y.
1
SURPASSED
KTEII1 EXHIBIT
Fulton County Fair Sets , 4 New Pace Field of 130
First Class Race Horses Fine Exhibits '
Plenty of Amusements
Never before has the Fulton Coun- produced in considerably less than a
circumstances than it did this vear,
The weather was all that could be ask
ed, the exhibits in the live stock and
in fact every department came in
early and were of . high standard
Tuesday the fair grounds presented
a busy scene, the "Midway" attrac
tions were all in place and ready for
business. Hamburg,, pop corn, candy
and lemonade men began to cry. their
wares, "Ballyhoo" men were limber
ing up their vocal organs, exhibitors
of farm implements and machinery,
automobiles and all the other things
farmer and the
Cases in Probate Court Marriage
Licenses Real Estate Transfers
Orders Drawn on Treasury
Cases in Common Plena Court.
-New
Probate Court.
Estate- of Albert E. Carver, final
distributive account confirmed and
administrator discharged.
Estate of Maria Bender, deceased.
Inventory and appraisement filed.
Will of Lewis A. Conklin, deceased,
widow elected to take under will.
Guardianship of Gwendolin A. Kan
auer, and Atha L. Kanauer, inventory
filed.
Estate of Mary Westbrook, deceas-i
ed, report ot public sale of personalty
filed and confirmed.
Estate of Edmund W. Whitaker, de
ceased, collateral inheritance tax cer
tified to county auditor.
Estate of George F. Shriner, appli
cation for letters of administration
filed. Bond filed and letters of ad
ministration issued to Sarah A. Shrin
er. Estate of George F. Shriner, deceas
ed, application for order to settle
wrongful claim held against the New
York Central Eail Road Company for
$250 filed. Order decreed and report
filed.
Guardianship of Marian J. Roth,
fifth partial account filed. Hearing
set for October 2nd, 1916.
Guardianship of Oscar L. Wales,
final account filed. Hearing set for
October 2nd, 1916.
N. Western Mfg. Co., sup. jan. 17.50
Jacob Henry, X. C. Highway 32.00
Columbus Blank Bk. Mfg., poll '
books : . .7 99.50
E. H. Patterson, ditch 1137. . 69.30
Kenyon & Weir, prtg. ballots 76.65
Chas. SchlegeL ditch 1111... 44.00
E. D. Funk, ditch 1111 83.85
J. H. Sherwood, printing . . . 2.00
Florine Files, stenographer. . 5.00
Geo. Oakley, Rep. Mach. Infy. 12.07
Art Ranger, sold, relief Royal
ton . 4 i ...... 5.00
H. H. Tred way, same- Amboy 11.00
H. Partridge, same Chesterfield 11.00
Earl Woolace, same Gorham 32.00
S. M. Stevens, same Dover . . 30.00
W. A. Tappan, same Pike .... 10.00
M. J. Linehan, same Fulton. . 68.00
Geo. Haynes, same Swan Creek 61.00
Wm. Hoch, same York 111.00
A. Fagley, same German ... 30.00
Coon & Savage, road 72 . .'. . 800.00
Eliza Andrews, mothers pen. 9.00
Anna Hart, same 9.00
Ben Morningstar, Dover ditch
1103 100.00
R. J. Shaffer, same 1137 .... 200.00
C. D. Perry, Supt. schools. . . 191.66
Geo. Sidle, joint rd 17 .... 25.00
B. F. Jones, Supt. Infy.... 195.00
W. Spangler, Chesterfield ditch
1113
AUTO TOURS
The ideal month for a motor trip is
September, and the auto service af
forded by C. & B. Line Steamers from 1 that anneal ta the
Cleveland make the delightful touring . farmer's wife were putting the fine
territory adjacent to Buffalo in West-1 finishing touches on their tents and
era New York and Southern Ontario wares, exhibits were bein? nlr1 in
particularly available for the tour of fhe vari0U8 halls and everybody seem
ed happy, busy and good natured.,
two days or longer.
The New $5.00 Auto Rate takes
your car by steamer from Cleveland
One feature that distinguishes the
1916 fair in Fulton county is the
to isunaio ana oacK ior a two aays smionri;,! ovii nf wicQ;
motor trip, this very low rate being i made by members of the Fulton Coun
made i for all cars less than 128 inches ty Holstein-Friesian Association,
wheelbase. About 150 head of some of the finest
You may leave Cleveland any even- ! specimens of this breed of cattle ever
ing at 9:00, arrive in Buffalo at 7:30 shown are at the Fulton county fair
next morning, spend two days in i while at home on the farm of H. A.
touring to Niagara Falls, East Au- j McQuillin is the cow destined to make
rora, Toronto or other attractive j the county known the world over for
points and return from Buffalo the i the reason that she has already made
evening of the second day at 9:00, i a World's Record for a year with the
reaching Cleveland 7:30 the following . year of official test not yet complete.
morning, thus, making an ideal out
ing trip at a small cost .
1200 pounds of butter and over 30.000
pounds of milk which this cow. has
year will make the countv in which
she waa born and raised famous wher
ever Holstein-Friesian cattle are
known, and that is the world over.
Not even the" State Fair can-surpass
our own county fair this year in the
showing of -live stock either an quan
tity or real quality. Added to all the
other attractions which are many is
a neia or 13U nrst class horses which
insures some "classy" races and they
must be hard to suit who cannot find
entertainment, information and inter
est at the Fulton County Fair this
year. ,
; ; RASE BALL.
The Wauseon Indians scored an
other victory last Sunday afternoon
by defeating the Metamora Team. The
game which was well played resulted
in a score of 5 to 4 in favor of the
home team.
Next Sunday afternoon the Indians
will meet the Swanton Team at Ath
letic park and there will be some fast
game when these rival teams come to
gether. Game is called at 2:30.
5 ADVERTISED LETTERS.
. Mrs.cE.-E. Alleman, Miss. Lilly
LNUepen, Miss Mane Grime, Mr. John
Miller -
EMIL WEBER, P. M.
- Try an . advertisement tn The Trib
une and not the results.
Marriage Licenses
Floyd F. Leininger, 24, wagon
maker, Archbold, Ohio, and Elsie D.
Lohse, 20, Archbold, Ohio. Rev. P.
Kluepfel, officiating. . -
Edward Nickerson, 22, farmer, Fay
ette and Florence B. Kuhn, 18, Fay
ette, Ohio. Rev. O. P. Hoffman, offi
ciating. -
3.00
40.00
22.00
30.50
34.00
Warrants Drawn.
Wilson Burkholder, road rep.
(Wauseon North) .. .$
J. M. Miley, same
yv. K. Guilford, same
G. Yarnell, same .....1...;
Ralph Miley, same ..........
R. Bringman, same '. . 16.00
Chas. Sowers, same ........ 12.00
J. xGarman, same 25.00
H. Smith, same . 8.00
Wauseon Hospital Assn., ser.
rendered county ......... 750.00
H. M. Jay, Asst. Supt. schl. 62.50
J. L. Verity, ditch 1148 423.70
Grant Geer, ditch 1109 ..... 59.00
Eugene Disbrow, ditch work. 6.00
Geo. H. Haynes, July Dist. Liq.
Tax 98.00
O. J. Dodge, school ex ...... 14.00
M. E. Mattern, same 14.00
Albert Mengerink, bd. 310, 312 3000.00
H. D. Meister, printing .... 17.40
Schlatter & Howards, sup. ... 32.26
Chas. Parney, ditch 1111.... ,192.75
Remington Typewriter Co. rep 2.15
48.10
GHRISTIANSC1ENCE
Lecture By William W. Porter, C. S.
B. of New York at The Court House
in Wauseon September Third, 1916.
Large Attendance. . - :
Schulz. ostepath.
The operation for congenital dislo
cation of the hip was performed over
a year ago by Dr. Schulz. The child
was in bed for a few weeks but since
then has been up and about, with the
hip encased in a plaster cast. Three
casts were used, the first with the
knee at a right angle, the second with
the leg at 45 degrees and the third
with it practically straight. Last week
Dr. Schulz removed the final cast.
Since then the girl has used crutches,
but in a few days will discard these
and in every way will have the normal
use of her leg.
In congenital dislocation, one leg is
shorter than the other. The operation
performed by Dr. Schulz waa similar
to that of Dr. Lorenz of Vienna upon
Lolita Armour of Chicago a number
of years ago. The misplacement of
the hip bone is remedied by bloodless
surgery. The head is put in the sock
et where it belongs and completely
normal use of the leg follows.
Usually such operations are per
formed in children much younger than
Miss Burke. ,
Dr. Schulz took her to the osteo
pathic headquarters at Kirksville, Mo.,
year,
An nnuan11v larcra number nf nu.
pils it entering college this year. We 'j'?8 operation, and has given the
shaU publish the names later. Wau-chlid hl personal care for over a year.
seon has every reason to be proud of
her college boys and girls.
' Supt. Altstetter has had a great
many requests for roolaiers and board-
era. He will be glad to help pupils
get well located.
How To Give Good Advice.
The best way to give good advice is
to set a good example. When others
see how quickly you get over your
cold by taking Chamberlain's (Jough
Remedy they are likely to follow your
example. This remedy has been in
use for many years and enjoys an ex
: eel lent reputation. Obtainable every
where. ......
Dr. Schulz will sro to Flint. Mich
igan the latter part of this week
where he has been called to treat two
cases similar to the above,
Don't Neglect Your Cold.
Neglected colds get worse, instead
of better. A stuffed head, a tight
chest must be relieved at once. Dr.
Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey is Nature's
remedy. Honey and glycerine heal
the irritated membrane, antiseptic tar
loosens the phlegm, you breathe easier
and your cold is broken up. Pleasant
to take, Dr.-Bell's Pine-Tar-Honey is
an ideal-remedy for children as well
as grown-ups. At your Druggist, 25c,
Mfuitarofflm
- U - -U
IF?
Early Fall Millinery
We are showing a line of trimmed hats which are
worthy of consideration when you look for your new
fall hats.
v
Correct Styles
In Millinery
THE
Oois nfy
4.. 1 -'-
ADRIAN, MICHIGAN
SEPTEMBER 18th to 22d
The Fair that give the largest exhibit of Live Stock,
Poultryt Grains, Fancy Work, Grange Displays, Merchants'
Exhibits, Machinery, Etc., of any 25c Fair-in Michigan.
Wednesday is Children's Day and all school children
will be admitted free. It is also the day of the great
spelling contest ' .
Thirty dollars in gold to be given to the best spellers.
Send for list of words, prepare and win $10 in gold and the
championship of Lenawee county.
$3600.00 IN PRIZES FOR RACES
Will attract a large field of horses, which will give
three days ot fine sport. The races will start at 1 o'clock
p. m., on Wednesday.
Free Attractions, Music, Fine Exhibits, Large
Midway. Plenty of Room for Autos
COME AND SEE THE FAIR OF ALL FAIRS
See Local Agents for Special Train Service
25c ADMISSION 25c
We pride ourselves in our ability to produce real
smart trimmed hats, with such a great diversity of
styles you are assured something most effective and
becoming the secret of good dressing.
Another of the pleasing features you will note are
the prices.
We cordially invite you to visit our Millinery
Department.
MISS SALLIE GRUBB
Milliner In Charge
Ladies' Mew Fall Suits
Display
Suit Styles are Varied and Introduce many new
Features. Generally they are more attractive
than for several Season's past.
;pur selection of these SUPERBLY STYLISH
SUITS coupled with our DISTINCTIVE QUALITY
go to make lip a SERVICE of high order.
I We invite you to see these Suit Values
$16.50 to $27.00
Real Estate1 Transfers
Lydia Schleeel to Esther Schlee-el
quit daim deed, 60 acres, section, 22,
iors lownsmp,
Cyrus Losure and others to Clint V.
McCafterty, quit claim, lot 69, Origin
al Plat, Wauseon, SI.
Joe btites et al to Cb&a McCaffer-
ty, quit claim deed, lot ,69, original
John Mattern, et al to Mary A Mat-
tern, unuiviuea -iu interest in 100
acres, section 18 Gorham township,
Harry J. Sloan to Harris A. TaDnan.
parts iois 4z ana 43, uates & . Ken
nedy addition, Delta, Si.
Fred H. Wolf and wife to Wm. S
Dunbar, lots 101, 102, 103, 104, and
iuo ana wi Donnelly's addition. Wau.
seon, $350.
Hugh B. McQueen to Emma Brail-
ey, lots 6-4 and 5-0. Amsbaro-er ad
anion, crauey, $1.
Methodist Home for Aged to Wm.
Mack, part lot 131, Gates 2nd addi
tion, Delta, Ohio, (1 acre), $1300.
. ttaliett to Harvey Rhodes, 40
acres, section 28, Swan Creek town
ship, $1.
E. A. Seeley and wife to Volly M.
Berry, et al lot 11, F. A. Seeley, first
addition, Metamora, $200. -
Arthur Falor to Fred H. Wolf, lot
103 Donnelly's addition, Wauseon, O.,
$50. . -
' Daniel Sauder and wife to Jos. Von-
ler, 65-100 acre. Clinton township,
Caroline Kelm to Jacob B. Miller,
lot 43, Jacob Rupp, Sr., first addition,
Archbold, Ohio, $900.
Caroline C. LaBarr and Elmer La-
Barr to Mathew J. Daneler. lot 360.
Barber & Merrills' addition, Wauseon,
Jesse Morningstar and wife to
Mary Morningstar, 30 acres, section 7,
iorK lownsnip, ssww. : !..
A THIRTY YEAR PASTORATE -After
a pastorate of thirtv vears
at Archbold. Rev. Paul Kleupfel has
resigned ms pastorates in Fulton
county and accepted the pastorate- of ,
the Lutheran, church at Perrysburg,
where he went to lay the corner stone
of a new church building last Sun-:
day. . . .
Rev. Kleupfel came to Archbold
thirty 'years ago, a young man of
twenty, it was his first pastorate;
there did not seem to him enough in
this one pastorate even .with the
church at Pettisville to occupy all his
attention; ne was young, energetic
and enthusiastic in his ministry and
he set at work organizing churches
at points in the county where mem
bers of the Lutheran Church were
to be found in any considerable num
ber. j
These churches he has nurtured
and ministered to until they have be
come well established; among church
es so established is the Trinity Luth
eran church of Wauseon. .
Always genial and cheerful and al
ways about "The Work of The King
dom," it was a pleasure to meet Mr
Kleupfel and we shall miss him, but
we are glad for him that he goes to a
pastorate where his work will be all
in one place, though' fully as import
ant and possibly larger in extent -than
his first pastorate.
The Perrysburg Congregation is to
be congratulated and we predict for
them a period of real growth along
all lines under Rev. Kleupfel's ministry.
Fancy Blouses
Variety of Design is the dominate feature of these
lines which are generally and naturally attractive, very prac
tical and becoming; these are the kind ladies will want for
Fall Wear.
Ladies Separate Skirts For Fall
A NOTABLE FEATURE promised in this field
will be the extensive use of the SEPERATE SKIRTS.
In this we cater to the popular needs with an eye of
course on the QUALITY FIRST, then conservative
STYLES and PATTERNS at PRICES you '9 will . be
pleased to pay. We have a full range of extra large
sizes.
Prices range from $2.50 to $9.00
Fashion's Newest Creations
In Neckwear
We are showing another large and new line of
Ladies Fancy Neckwear
such as are produced in the WORLDS GREATEST
MARKET, hence the styles are pre-eminently
authqrative and dependable.
Wauseon's Exclusive Dry Goods Store
The Spencer -Bdlgar-Vdllmer Co
Paramount With Us is The. Maintenance of The goodness of Quality, Style and Service
Chamberlain's Colic, Cholera and Di
arrhoea Remedy.
This is a medicine that every, fami
ly should be provided with. Colic and
diarrhoea often come on suddenly and
it is of the greatest importance that
they be treated promptly. Consider
the suffering that must be endured
until a physician arrives or medicine
can be obtained. Chamberlain's Colic
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy has a
reputation second to none for the
quick relief which it affords. Obtain
able everywhere.
Right to be Here
That it is the undoubted rieht and
privilege of every person to know the
truth is a proposition with -which all
will readily agree. Therefore we may
be assured in the outset that it is a
right thing for us to be here seeking
to know the truth seeking to know
something of the healiner truth involv
ed in Christian Science.
Christian Science is meeting the
warm approval and commendation of
humanity wherever its influence is
felt or known throughout the world
today, Decause it is meeting the needs
of a humanity sick of its sufferings
and wearied with its superstitions;
because it is bringing to this human
ity the cheering message-and pYoof
that there is rest, and' peace, and
joy, and health, and strength; and in
mexnausUDle supply of the heavenly
Father's ' loving kindness and care
only the ashes, of unanswered prayers
seemed '.to remain.
jlot to . Destroy
.Ij.iS not the jftirpose.of the lecture
to Tudely challenge or compel the re
linquishment of, any cherished religi
ous principle, or the abandonment of
any sustaining or upholding ideal,
opinion or. thought, which may have
heretofore been a source of comfort
and help; to anyone. In fact, "and in
this connection, .it will be a surprise to
many and, of interest to .all, to know,
that even if it were possible to com
pel all the people of the world, to at
once adopt the - religion and heailng
methods of Christian Science, Chris
tian Scientists themselves would be
the first to oppose and nullify - any
such procedure, because the Christian
bcientist knows better than most peo
ple that it would be just as impossible
to legislate a man into the acceptance
or a certain form ot religion, as it
would be to legislate him into the ac
ceptance of a certain method of heal
ing treatment. ., ,
Religion and Healing Defined ''
And here it may be stated that if
man is to attain to the full benefit of
either religion or healing they must
be to him as simple and necessary, as
universally ' available and certain, as
that two and two make four.
Religion properly . defined . is that
which clarifies and makes available
the simple fundamental facts concern
ing God, and man, and the universe;'
while religion which fails to do this
mystifies and submerges clear thought"
and by reason of this mystification can
accomplish no good purpose of religi
on." . ., . ' ; , -' '
. And healing properly defined is
that which , establishes the recognition
of perf eet harmonious -consciousness,
while matter-7-or material medicine,
being a part of material, existence, a
part of material consciousness, can ac
complish only the mental- suggestion
involved in such material . conscious
ness; and cannot, by reason of the .
limitations and uncertainties of such -material
consciousness, be the procur
er; of any truly scientific results in
healing. . .. - , .
Not Related to Mortal Mind
It will be evident, therefore, that "
Christian Science is not related and
should not be associated in any way,
with mental suggestion, hypnotism,
spiritualism, mental hygiene, or .any
circle, church, cult or society, -which
bases its teachings and practice upon
the use of the human mind, the human
will, or the human personality as a re
ligious or healing factor or control. On .
the contrary, Christian Science 'has to
do with the being, government and
operation of the Divine Mind, or God
as well as the perfect, harmonious
continuity of creation, man and the
universe.
Statement Regarding Church
Neither is it a purpose of the lec
ture to ask you to become members
of the Christian Science Church.
And here, it may be well for me to
read a few lines from the Christian
Science Text Book, Science and Health
with Key to the Scripture, written
by Mary Baker Eddy, who is the Dis
coverer and Founder of Christian
Science. The reference is found on
page 35 of this text book and reads as -follows:
"Our church is built on the
divine Principle, Love. We can unite
with this church, phly as we are new
born of Spirit, as we reach the Life
which is Truth and the Truth which
is Life by bringing forth the fruits of
Love, casting out error and xhealing
the sick."
It will be observed that these simple
words are in fuU accord with those
well-defining words of the "Master:
"By their fruits ye shall know them."
. Purpose of the Lecture
The lecture, however, has quite a
(Continued on pag Eight)
BILL
THE FARM CREDIT
Congress has passed it and the President has signed
it. So far so good. But the underlying principle of
getting a loan under the regulations of this new bill, is
after all, a good reputation, ability and resources upon
which to obtain the loan.
The same bid rule; the rule that has determined the
making of any loan from time immemorial.
Any farmer, any man, can build up for himself a
credit standing that will entitle him to the confidence
and the financial assistance of his fellow; men.- -
- As the bank is one of the .principal institutions
through which men build up their credit rating we invite ,
you to become a regular customer of the
FIRST NATIONAL RANK
WAUSEON, OHIO
1
