THIRTIETH YEAR
PRESIDENT WILSON'S ACCEPTANCE SPEECH
REVIEWS LABOR
ACHIEVEMENTS
Samuel Gompers, Labor Pres
ident, Congratulates Labor
on Progress of the Year
ISSUES OF THE CAMPAIGN
Directs Attention to Political
Campaign, Saying Democrat
ic Party is Most Favorable
WASHINGTON, D. C., Sept. 6.—
Samuel Gompers, president of the
American Federation of Labor, has
made public a statement on "Labors
Achievements and Issues for 1916," in
which he characterizes the past year
as a remarkable one in the progress
of the labor movement. He said, in
part:
"Aa Labor Day 1916 comes in one
of the most critical political cam
paigns since the Civil war period, it
is well to call attention to the big
issue of the campaign which has a
national, as well as an international
relation. The issue is the attitude of
the political parties toward questions
of humanity and human welfare. The
party now in power has in its legis
lative achievements placed the highest
valuation upon human life and human
attributes that has even been de
clared and enacted by any political
party in power.
"The question that concerns the
workers is how to hold their present
advantages and how to secure from
political parties still greater oppor
tunities for freedom. The thing which
is fundamental is Section 6 of the
Clayton Anti-trust act, the labor of a
human being is not a commodity or
article of commerce. The representa
tives of the American Federation of
Labor went to the political parties and
ask'id them to declare themselves upon
tl is principle. The answers that the
political parties gave are in their
platforms where all may read.
"The Democratic party openly and
favorably declared and emphasized its
position. The Republican party took
no notice of labor's request that they
declare themselves upon that which
the workers considered of greatest im
portance to them.
"These are some of the issues that
primarily concern the workers and all
liberty loving citizens of the United
States; they are the issues upon which
every wage-earner—every citizen
will make his own decision, not only
in his every day activity, but also at
the polls on election day."
PRETTY WEDDING,
BELL-HEMSTREET
Popular Young Lady of Aberdeen
Weds Young Man From Seattle
In Episcopal Church.
There was a pretty wedding Wed
nesday morning In St. Andrew's
Episcopal church, when Miss Neva
Bell, of Aberdeen, and G. Archie
Hemstreet, of Seattle, were joined in
matrimony by Rev. F. F. W. Greene,
rector of the church. Nearly 100
friends and relatives of the young
couple were In attendance and the
church choir rendered appropriate
music, and Miss Dorothy Girton gave
a vocal solo, "I Love You Truly.
The full ring ceremony of the Epis
copal church was used, and the bride
was given away by Captain A. T.
Stream, who has known her all her
life.
After the ceremony, a wedding
breakfast was served at the home of
the bride's (pattenM. Mr. and Mrs.
E. W. Hunter, 123 West Market street,
at which 26 covers were laid. Mr.
and Mrs. Hemstreet left on the noon
train for a tour of several weeks in
Southern California, after which they
will make their home in Seattle, where
Mr. Hemstreet occupies a responsi
ble position with the Robert Dollar
Steamship Co.
MRS. ANNA CARLSON DIES
Mrs. Anna Carlson, a resident of
Aberdeen for 17 years, died Tuesday
morning at her home on North G
street, at the age of 85 years and 11
months. She was a native of Swe
den, and had been ill since last Janu
ary. Mrs. Larson leaves sons and
daughters as follows: A. G. Carlson,
1300 East First street, Aberdeen: Carl
J. Carlson, living in Sweden; Mrs. H.
Bloomquist, 804 Terrace avenue; Mrs.
Carl Westling, 1100 First street, Aber
deen; Mrs. Edward Lambert, Elma;
Mrs. O. R. Olson. Madras, Ore., and
Miss Betty Carlson, Aberdeen.
Funeral services will be held Sun
day afternoon from the chapel at
the Whiteside Undertaking parlors at
2:30, and interment will be made In
Fern Hill cemetery. Rev. Pearson of
Hoquiam will conduct the ceremonies.
ABERDEEN HERALD
EIGHT PAGES
COUNTY FAIR
GREAT SUCCESS
Grounds Thrown Open to the
Public Wednesday With
2000 Present
HORSE RACES ATTRACT
Sunday Will Be Big Day-Pub
lic Wedding in the Afternoon
Who Are They?
ELMA, Sept. 7. —The sixth annual
Grays Harbor .County Fair opened its
gates Wednesday with near
ly 2,U00 representative citizens from
every corner of the county present
at the inaugural ceremonies. The
finishing touches had not been given
all exhibits, and many of the fair em
ployes were busy on the grounds, but
this fact did not keep away the
crowds.
In the evening Joy Street was turn
ed loose. Festoons of electric lights
made day of night in the fair grounds,
and an enormous crowd thronged the
street for the sole purpose of "going
down the line." And they went. Ev
ery side show was packed all the
time, and spielers were superfluous.
There is a merry go round for the
kids, and it was patronized to capa
city every round.
Thursday was set aside as children's
day, and the exhibits displayed by
the school children, Including man
ual training products and agricultural
trophies, are declared remarkable by
everyone viewing them. Most peo
ple, and even the parents of many
of the children who attend the very
schools where the exhibits were ac
cumulated, are surprised at the va
riety and excellence. Judges were busy
Thursday in segregating the various
exhibits, and the winers In the com
munity contests will be announced
later.
Dr. E. B. Riley, of Aberdeen, be
gan his work Wednesday of judg
ing the babies in the baby contest,
and many a fine youngster passed un
der his discerning eye. Dr. Riley
states he never encountered a health
ier lot of youngsters, and is emphat
ic in his praise of the methods many
of the mothers of Grays Harbor are
employing in raising their little tots.
Thursday afternoon marked the be
ginning of the racing and an enormous
crowd circled the track. Many of
the horses entered are noted for their
records, and just because the ban has
been on this variety of sport for a
number of years, is no criterion that
the race fans have all died off.
Today is Aberdeen, Hoquiam, Cos
mopolis, Montesano and West County
Day—a large title for a few small
hours, but it is reported that the
roads are thronged with autos from
the harbor section, and next to Sun
day, promises to be the banner day
of Fair week. Horse racing, with gen
erous purses, in the afternoon is the
principal attraction of the day.
On Saturday, Congressmen Johnson
and Humphreys, accompanied by sev
eral candidates for state offices, are
billed to make short speeches.
Sunday—of course everybody knows
what is going to take place on Sun
day. In addition to many special
features scheduled for the last day
of the Fair, the public wedding is
to take place in the afternoon. Spec
ulation as to the identity of the prin
cipals is rife, and the mystery has
added greatly to the Interest develop
ed in the crowning event of the week.
The groom Is declared to be a prom
inent fraternal man, but from the
large list of eligibles, no one has been
able to place a finger on the guilty
man —something on the order of the
"Irishman's flea," is it figured out.
Congressman Albert Johnson will
give the bride away at the public
wedding—an honor few men ever get
an opportunity to assume. Mr. John
son intends making a special trip
down from Taconia to perform his lit
tle act, which goes to show that he
also realizes the importance of the
event.
J. J. Anderson, who will be host to
the bridal couple after the cpremony
at a dinner at the Imperial hotel, has
instructed tiie chef to rake his French
recipe books with a fine tooth comb,
and put up a spread that for richness
and variety will shame any past meal
ever served in Elma. Those who
know Mr. Anderson and tlie chef, are
pulling every string to be in on the
spread.
The Herald urges every reader to
take in the Fair at least one day.
Go and stay over at night. Joy street
is open until Cinderella's hour. Even
the grouchy moosbacks came out hap
py after a brush with Joy boulevard,
so there must be something funny
there.
Tfae Herald Is the moat widely read
paper In Graya Harbor county. Wise
advertisers know it J
POINTED PARAGRAPHS FROM PRESIDENT WILSON'S
SPEECH ACCEPTING THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINATION
I am the candidate of a party, but I am above all thing* else an American citizen. I
neither seek favor nor fear the displeasure of that small alien element amongst us which puts
loyalty to any foreign power before loyalty to the United States.
In foreign affairs we have been guided by principles clearly conceived and consistently lived
up to. * * * We have been neutral not only because it was the fixed and traditional policy of
the United States to stand aloof from the politics of Europe, and because we had no part either
of action or of policy in the influences which brought on the present war, but also because it
was manifestly our duty to prevent, if it were possible, the indefinite extension of the fires of
hate and desolation kindled by that terrible conflict and seek to serve mankind by reserving our
strength and our resources for the anxious and difficult days of restoration and healing which
must follow when peace will have to build its house anew.
Alike in the domestic field and in the wide.field of the commerce of the world, American
business and life and industry have been set free to move as they never moved before.
The tariff has been revised not on the principle of repelling foreign trade but upon
the principle of encouraging it upon something like a footing of equality with our own in respect
of the terms of competition.
The laws against trusts have been clarified by definition with a view to making it plain
that they were not directed against big business but only against unfair business.
Effective measures have been taken for the re-creation of an American merchant marine and
the revival of the American carrying trade.
The working men of America have been given a veritable emancipation by the legal recog
nition of a man's labor as part of his life and not a mere marketable commodity.
We have effected the emancipation of the children of the country by releasing them from
hurtful labor.
We have sought to equalize taxation by 'means of an equitable income tax.
IJOLLY CROWD AT
BIG BARN DANCE
Young Folks Enjoy Dance in
New Barn on Coats Farm
Near Cedarville
About forty couples from Aberdeen
were royally entertained by Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Coats Saturday night at
a barn dance, on the Coats dairy
farm near Cedarville, about 35 miles
above Aberdeen, in the Chehalis Val
ley. The guests motored from Aber
deen, returning early Sunday morn
ing after as pleasant a social event as
it is easy to picture. Music was fur
nished by Carl Elder, with violin, cor
net and snare drum, and many old
fashioned square dances were indulged
in out of deference to the older guests,
who enjoyed them hugely. About mid
night a substantial lunch was served
and the hearty manner in which it
was enjoyed was decidedly compli
mentary to the host and hostess.
The new barn in which the dance
was held is one of the finest In the
Chehalls valley, and is fitted with
stancions to hold 70 head of cows.
It Is 86x126 "feet, by 42 feet high, and
cost, including two silos 14 feet In
diameter and 28 feet high, about |3,-
500. The Coats farm consists of 217
acres, all but 15 acres of which lies
in the Chehalls river bottom, and is all
under cultivation. It is leased to Swiss
dairymen who now milk 24 cows, but
the herd will be gradually increased to
100, which number the land will carry
easily. An idea of the size of the
barn will be obtained when it Is noted
that 122,000 shingles were required for
the roof.
On the way to the dance, the auto
of John Wilson was stalled a few miles
from the farm, by trouble with the
engine, his passengers were car
ried on by other machines. Dan Mc-
Gilllcuddy towed the cripple back to
Aberdeen and returned to take Mrs.
McGillicuddy and other passengers
home.
LABOR DAY SPORTS
ATTRACT BIG CROWD
Labor Day 011 the Harbor was fitting
ly observed Monday, first with a pa
rade and speaking at Hoquiam, and
with a ball game and a number of
athletic contests at Electric Park Jn
the afternoon. The ball game be
tween the Aberdeen and Hoquiam
Moose lodges proved very interesting,
and was won by Aberdeen, 7 to 5.
The sports which preceded 1 lie ball
game were mostly for children ami
while the races were few in number
they were interesting. The results
of these races follow.
Boys' 50-yard dash—Sam Barbour,
first, and Clinton Dilley, second.
Girls' 100-yard dash—Jane Mc-
Glaughlin.
Union Men's 100-yard dash —S. H.
Krits, rirst, and J. Preston, second.
Sack race—Sam Barbour, first, and
B. Whitacre. second.
The day closed with a dance at the
Electric park pavilion at night.
ABERDEEN, WASHINGTON. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916.
COMPANY G IS
COMING HOME
Secretary of War Orders Sec
ond Washington Infantry
Musterd Out of Service
MAY BE HOME IN A MONTH
Order Came as a Surprise.
Will Require Thirty Days
to Unwind Red Tape
TACOMA, Sept. 8. —Orders to must
er out of federal service the Second
infantry, U. S. N. G., of Washington,
are on their way to officers at Camp
Cosgrove and to the officers of other
militia regiments in various parts of
the country where the men recently
released from border duty are in con
centration camps.
Official instructions to demobolize
were issued by Secretary Baker of
the war department, early in the day,
but had not yet reached Adjutant
General Thompson at Seattle, Colonel
W. M. Inglis, commanding officer of
the Second Washington, or Captain
Harold D. Coburn, U. S. A., stationed
at Camp Cosgrove, up to late yester
day afternoon. The word to demob
olize, however, was expected here at
any time.
General Thompson said it would
probably require 30 days to muster the
Washington Infantry out of the fed
eral service. Every company must go
through a thorough physical examina
tion again, and much "red tape" will
attach to the transfer of property. The
war department has sent out orders,
it was also given out in Washington
dispatches yesterday, directing that all
militia units composed exclusively of
college men be mustered out of the
federal service as soon as possible,
that the students may take up their
educational training without interfer
ence from military duty.
SUSTAIN DOUBLE AFFLICTION
Pioneer Couple of Elma Lose Son and
Grandson on One Day by Acci
dents in Logging Camps
ELMA, Sept. 6. —Mr. and Mrs. Na
than Thompson suffered a hard blow
last Thursday when their son. Milo
Thompson, was killed in a camp near
Olympia, and their grandson. Byron
Church, met the same fate a Mc-
Cleary. Both were killed by being
caught beneath rolling logs. Thomp
son was working for the Fir Tree
Lumber company, 10 miles from Olym
; pia. Both bodies were brought here
lor interment.
Mr. Thompson lived here until a few
years ago when he moved with his
family to a farm near Centralia. He
is survived by his wife, two children
and other relatives. Church leaves
his parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. Church,
and several brothers and sisters. His
jwife died several years ago.
BIG DEMOCRATS
COMING TO STATE
W. J. Bryan, J. Hamilton Lew
is, Senator Oilie James and
Got. Glynn to Speak Here
TACOMA, Sept. 7—James N. Nell,
chairman of the Pierce county demo
cratic committee, will confer with
George Ryan, of Seattle, secretary of
the democratic state central commit
tee, either Monday or Tuesday, to plan
for the speaking tour in Tacoma of
William Jennings Bryan, Senator Jas.
Hamilton Lewis, Senator Ollie James,
and Martin H. Glynn, former governor
of New Yor.
The announcement that these dis
tinguished politicians would come to
Tacoma and other Northwestern cities
in the interests of President Wood
row Wilson's campaign was announ
ced, and the announcement was re
ceived by democrats of the state, with
joy.
Former Governor Glynn is rated as
a remarkably fluent speaker. He de
livered the keynote address at the
democratic national convention. From
this speech a number of literary crit
ics selected the 13 questions that
Governor Charles E. Hughes has been
publicly asked to answer.
Senator James is another well
known speaker and one of the most
powerful men in the United States
senate. J. Hamilton Lewis is well
known in the Northwest, having repre
sented this state at one time in con
gress.
POULTRY SHOW
IN JANUARY
Oregon Man Has Been Selected to
Act as Judge—Next Meeting
at Montesano
At the meeting of the Grays Harbor
Poultry association at Hoquiam last
Friday evening, J. C. Murray, a noted
fancier of Brownsboro, Ore., was se
lected judge for the big show to be
pulled off here some time in January.
About 25 members were present, and
it was the first enthusiastic meeting
the association could boast of for
some time.
The next meeting will take place at
Montesano, September 14, at which
time it will be definitely settled wheth
er the point or comparison system will
be used in judging and placing the
ribbons. It will also be decided
whether admission will be free, or a
small fee charged to help defray ex
penses.
A central location is to be selected
on Heron street if possible, and every
thing Is to be done that will bring
the crowds to the show room. Many
outsiders, among whom is Kegley
Bros., Little Rock, Wash., who are
classed among the largest breeders in
the state, will be on hand with a long
line of winning Barred Rocks and
other breeds.
All the news all the time la th»
Herald.
CONSTRUCTIVE ACTS VS.
DESTRUCTIVE COMMENT
Democrats Make Trade Move As It Never Moved
Before. Have Emancipated Workers, Says
President in Speech
SYMPATHIZES WITH THE MEXICAN REVOLT
Shall Do All in His Power to Aid Mexican Lib
erty. Says Policy in Foreign Affairs is
Consistently American
In bis address ut Shadow Lawn,
Long Branch, N. J., accepting the
Democratic nomination for president,
Woodrow Wilson said:
Senator James, Gentlemen of the Noti
fication Committee, Fellow Citizens:
I cannot accept tbs leadership and re
sponsibility which the national Dem
ocratic convention has again in such
generous fashion asked me to accept
without first expressing my profound
gratitude to the party for the trust it
reposes in me after four years of fiery
trial in the midst of affairs of unpre
cedented difficulty, and the keen sense
of added responsibility with which this
honor fills (I had almost said burdens)
me as I think of the great issues of
national life and policy involved in the
present and immediate future conduct
of our government I shall seek, as I
have always sought, to Justify the ex
traordinary confidence thus reposed In
me by striving to purge my heart and
purpose of every personal and of every
misleading party motive and devoting
every energy I have to the sen-ice of
the nation as a whole, praying that I
may continue to have the counsel and
support of all forward looking men
at every turn of the difficult business.
For I do not doubt that the people
of the United States will wish the
Democratic party to continue in con
trol of the government. They are not
In the habit of rejecting those who
have actually served them for those
who are making doubtful and con
jectural promises of service. Least of
all are they likely to substitute those
who promised to render them particu
lar services and proved false to that
promise for those who have actually
rendered those very services.
Boasting Is always an empty busi
ness, which pleases nobody but the
boaster, and I have no disposition to
boast of what the Democratic party
bus accomplished, it has merely done
its duty. It has merely fulfilled Its ex
plicit promises. But there can be no
violation of good taste in calling at
tention to the manner In which those
promises have been carried out or In
adverting to the Interesting fact that
many of the things accomplished were
what the opposition party had again
and again promised to do, but had left
undone. Indeed, that Is manifestly
port of the business of this year of
reckoning and assessment. There Is
no means of Judging the future except
by assessing the past Constructive
action must be weighed against de
structive comment and reaction. The
Democrats either have or have not un
derstood the varied Interests of the
country. The test Is contained In the
record.
What Is that record? What were
the Democrats called Into power to do?
What things bad long waited to be
done, and how did the Democrats do
them? It is a record of extraordinary
length and variety, rich In elements
of many kinds, but consistent In prin
ciple throughout and susceptible of
brief recital.
A Record of Failure.
The Republican party was put out
of power because of failure, practical
failure and moral failure; because It
had served special interests and not
the country at large; because, under
the leadership of Its preferred and es
tablished guides; of those who still
make Its choices, It had lost touch
with the thoughts and needs of the
nation and was living in a past age
and under a fixed illusion, the Illusion
of greatness. It had framed tariff
laws based upon a fear of foreign
trade, a fundamental doubt as to
American skill, enterprise and capac
ity, and a very tender regard for the
profitable privileges of those who had
valued control of domestic markets
and domestic credits, and yet had en
acted anti-trust laws which hampered
the very things they meant to foster,
which were stiff and Inelastic and hi
part unintelligible. It had permitted
the country throughout the long period
of its control to stagger from one finan
cial crisis to another under the opera
tion of a national banking law of its
own framing which made stringency
und panic certain and the control of
the larger business operations of the
■ ountry by the bankers of a few re
serve centers inevitable; had made as
If it meant to reform the law, but had
faint heartedly failed in the attempt,
because It could not bring itself to do
the one thing necessary to make the
reform genuine nnd effectual —namely,
break up the control of small groups of
bankers. It had been oblivious or In
different to the fact that the fanners,
upon whom the country depends for
its food and lu the last analysis for
Its prosperity, were without standing
In the matter of commercial credit,
without protection of standards in
their market transactions and without
systematic knowledge of the markets
themselves; that the laborers of the
country, the great army of men who
man the industries It wu professing
to father and promote, carried their
labor as a mere commodity to market,
were subject to restraint by novel and
drastic process in the courts, were
without assurance of compensation (or
industrial accidents, without federal
assistance in accommodating labor dis
putes and without national aid or ad
vice in finding the places and the in
dustries in which their labor was most
needed. The country had no national
system of road construction and de
velopment. Little Intelligent attention
was paid to the army and not enough
to the navy. The other republics of
America distrusted us, because they
found that we thought first of the
profits of American Investors and only
as an afterthought of impartial justice
and helpful friendship. Its policy was
provincial in all things; its purposes
were out of harmony with the temper
and purposes of the people and the
timely development of the nation's in
terests.
Party Has Rsdssmed Promise*.
So things stood when the Democratic
party came into power. How do they
stand now? Alike In the domestic field
and In the wide field of the commerce
of the world, American business and
life and industry have been set free
to move as they never moved before.
The tariff has been revised, not on
the principle of repelling foreign trade;
but upon the principle of encouraging
It, upon something like a footing of
equality with our own in respect of
the terms of competition, and a tariff
board has been created whoso function
It will be to keep the relations of
American with forelgh business and
Industry under constant observation,
for the guidance alike of our business
men and of our congress. American
energies are now directed toward the
markets of the world.
The laws against trusts have been
clarified by definition, with a view to
making it plain that they were not
directed against big business, but only
against unfair business and the pre
tense of competition where there was
none, and a trade commission has been
created with powers of guidance and
accommodation which have relieved
business men of unfounded fears and
set them upon the road of hopeful and
confident enterprise.
By the federal reserve act the sup
ply of currency at the disposal of ac
tive business has been rendered elas
tic, taking lts volume not from a fix
ed body of Investment securities, but
from the liquid assets of daily trade,
and these assets are assessed and ac
cepted not by distant groups of bank
ers in control of unavailable reserves,
but by bankers at the many centers
of local exchange who are In towA
with local conditions everywhere.
Effective measure* have been taken
for the ri-creaUoij pj an American mer
chant marine and the revival of the
American carrying trade Indispensable
to our emancipation from the control
which foreigners have so long exer
cised over the opportunities, the routes
and the methods of our commerce with
other countries.
The Interstate commerce commission
has been reorganized to enable it to
perforin Its great and Important func
tions more promptly nnd more efficient
ly. We have created, extended and im
proved the service of the parcels post
So much we have done for business.
What other party has understood the
task so well or executed it so intelli
gently and energetically? What other
party has attempted it at all? The Re
publican leaders, apparently, know of
no means of assisting business but
"protection." How to stimulate it and
put it upon a new footing of energy
and enterprise they have not suggested.
Farmers Have Been Benefited.
For the farmers of the country we
have virtually created commercial
credit by means of the federal reserv®
act and the rural credits act. They
now have the standing of other busi
ness men In the money market. We
have successfully regulated speculation
in "futures" and established standards
in the marketing of grains. By an in
telligent warehouse act we have assist
ed to make the stundard crops availa
ble as never before both for systematic
marketing and as a security for loans
(Continued from 3).
NUMB EH 49
