TWELFTH YEAR. No. 12,
TO THE PUBLIC.
Oroville, Washington, Sept. 4. 1916.
Uhas come to my knowledge that, at
. couvcntlon o£ prominent democrats
held i» Okanogan a few days since, I
named as a candidate for prose
cuiiag attorney of Okanogan county.
I beg to assure my democratic
Mends that this honor came to me
both unsolicited and undeserved, as 1
U, neither a democrat nor an office
bteker; an( j i could not under any cir
cumstances permit my name to go be
fore the voters of Okanogan county us
, candidate for any office at this time.
In this campaign. 1 am interested
„oly in the election to office of men,
jmpectlve of political affiliations,
fh« will give us an honest, economical
ministration of our laws, and at least
TfiS foundation for reforms which
(I have heretofore been unable to
ickleve. gft
We believe the average voter has
akeu entirely 100 little pains to in
-1,,,1,, himself as to the doings of our
umaty commissioners. Mow many per
mu are aware that during the twd
pars from December 31, 1913 to Dec
ile, 31, 1915, as shown by the offi
gll report of the county auditor, the
imlebiednes of Okanogan county Jump
ed from $164,820.98 to $207,053.51, a
KUI of $42,232.52; that at the same'
gut the assessed value of the proper
ly in the county increased $737,036.00,
■d that never-the-less, the levy for
lateral taxation within the county in-
Ntased over 20 per cent. Get the re
ftrto and figure it out for yourselves.
Dwabove figures are official and can
not be disputed.
Can any reasonable man give any
Moon why our burden of taxation
Aould increase in such a ratio, or any
mton why with the vast sum of mon
er collected, our Indebtedness should
not have been decreased, rather than
mereaoed at the rate of over $21,000.00
a year
We sincerely believe that if every
in the county knew the facts
Ant it would not be necessary even to
NBMt that they vote for a change.
JBpr has had his opportunity and has
|&H)tHL&UUh a chance, we know
SPBSETgood
B»e rapidity with which our county
develops depends more largely upon
the efficiency of our county cotnmis
iloaers than on any other factor.
Very respectfully.
A PRETTY HEALTHY PRECINCT.
Oroville is divided up into three vot
ing precincts and the registration this
year shows a very flattering increase
is the number of voters living within
the boundaries of the precincts. Of
course this is not a full representation
of the voting strength, for always a
number of residents fall to get on the
registration books, especially before
the primary election, if every voter in
the three precincts were on the list,
there would probably be at least 100
more names. Quite a number of women
•re registered this year, more than at
•ny previous election The following is
the registration (igu res:
Men Women
Precinct No 136 83
Precinct No. 2 124 72
Precinct No. 3 59 30
Total 319 185
This makes a grand total of 504 votes
now registered in the three precincts,
*hlcb cuts some ice when it cornea to
voting.
CORRECTION.
bast week in mentioning the "Society
Circus" that is to take place today in
Oroville the Gazette unintentionally
erred in stating where the performance
•as to take place. It was announced
Oiat the entertainment was to be held
! a toe Civic League park and library
building, when in fact it is to take
place at the Orpheum. Also by an over
light we failed to state who were the
JW* f°r this unique entertainment,
‘he "Society Circus" is to be given
finder the direction anil management of
. lah-ga-Blbble society, an organiza
°n composed of a number of ladies
of Oroville. The mistake as to the place
*bere the show is to be held was
wholly and solely the fault of the edi
or. and for the oversight in mentlon
°g the society that has worked so hard
Preparing for the event this paper owes
e ladies of that organization an
•Pology,
MUSICAL FEAST.
n Friday evening Sept. 15th the De
°»s Concert company will be in the
fpheum theatre. They come highly
.'commended arul amuslcal treat Is
Bl °fe for this community. One feat
flre be the only act known where
ne tnan plays two cornets at once.
« ~ ‘
r ne nev er finds out what a spotted
OfPUtatlon a man j, ttß unt j ( he runs for
Mrs. C. C. Tilley, her son Cal Tilley
and daughter. Miss Edwynne Tilley,
departed Monday morning for Port
Huron, Mich., where Mr. Tilley has
secured a responsible position with u
lioni company in the lake trade and
where the family will mike their fu
ture home, 'i lit 'liceys na/e resided in
Oroville tor a number of years and
they carry to Hieit new home the best
wishes ,f r.uny fr.ends.
For the past three years Cal Tilley
lias held the petition ot ticket clerk
and warehemn man at the local depot,
and he was one id the most faithful ami
trustworthy employees o-i the Great
Northern -y.-.t-m industrious, eio«ely
attentive tc h ; business ot the depart
ment tin ler Ins < ’large, alwa..* prompt
ami accommodating in his relations
with the shipping and traveling public
t’ae young man won the confidence and
esteem of every one having business
to transact at the station. He was a
valuable man to the railroad company,
but in the position he held there was
no chance for advancement in posithm
nor salary, and he might work his
head off until broken down with old
age without hope of preferment. He
has secured a place where his worth
and capability will be appreciated and
where there is some chance of that
ability being rewarded. The Gazette
trusts that, he will work himself up to
a high position of responsibility and
trust, and feels certain that h ewlll
trust, and feels certain that lie will
he may be tried out.
Morris Costello, the popular agent In
charge of the local station, who can
recognize and appreciate merit in at
tachees of the office, says that In his
33 years experience at railroading he
has never known a more energetic,
capable and reliable man in the posi
tion which Mr. Tilley filled. He stated
that in the long time of his service Mr.
Tilley was never late at a train. His
accounts and reports were always ac
curate and he never for a minute shirk
ed his duty. His faithfulness was only
surpassed by his unflagging Industry,
and on all occasions and cir
cumstances Mr. Tilly was pkasant to
his associates, courteous to patrons
and uniformly cheerful. The young
man was so painstaking and careful
that Mr. Costello knew that whenever
there was any work to be done in con
nection with the service was done
right when Mr. Tilley was responsible
for the doing. Mr. Costello feels satis
fied that in a larger field Mr. Tilley
will give a good account of himself.
J. M. ADAMS.
. Mr. and Mrs. W. J. DeMerchant en
tertained a number of their friends on
Monday evening, August 28, in honor
of their china wedding anniverrrary.
The evening was spent with music and
games and delicious refreshments
were served. Those present were: Mr.
and Mrs. S. A. DeMerchant, Mr. and
Mrs. J. C. Martin. Mr. and Mrs. Ray
Bury, Mr. and Mrs. Wendell Berry,
Mrs. H. L. Allen, Mrs. Jayness, of
Twisp, Mrs. Frank Buckingham, R. C.
Johnson, Leo. DeMerchant, Durward
Smith, Willis Martin, Gerald Allen,
Joseph Allen, George DeMerchant, Les
lie DeMerchant, Clinton Allen, Kenneth
DeMerchant, Misses Rose Horrlgan,
Esther Horrigan, Mildred Horrlgan,
Grace Allen, Naomi Allen. Violet Daw
son, Josie DeMerchant, Elsie Martin,
Thelma Bury, Constance Buckingham,
lone Berry and Melba Berry. Every
body present expressed themselves
with having had a delightful time.
Miss Grace and Naomi Allen spent
the past week visiting in Oroville.
Miss Naomi Allen has been finite ill
with some nervous disorder.
Miss Bertha Creek, jubilee field sec
retary of the Woman’s Foreign Mis
sionary Society, will deliver a lecture
in the M. E. Church next Monday even
ing at 8 o’clock. Miss Creek is an.en
tertaining and pleasing speaker and
her narrative of experience in the mm
slonary field in foreign lands will be
most interesting.
W. A. McCrary, who has been act
ing as cashier anfl telegraph man at
the local depot for two or three
months, has given up his job and re
turned to his orchard tract at Ellis
forde. Mr. McCrary is an 100 per cent
efficent operator and office man, and
gave perfect satisfaction to the public
and to the company while at: the keys.
He voluntarily gave up the job sim
ply because of the small salary at
tached thereto. It is the low paid men
in the railroad service that are more
entitled to an advance In salary than
those in the more opnlantly remuner
ative departments. Mr. McCrary > s
succeeded by Edwin J. Woods, lal<
connected with the railroad office In
Okanogan, who will work into the
rut as soon as he fairly gets run o
the office.
A FAITHFUL EMPLOYEE,
IVA.\ Mi l l NOTES.
M. K. CHURCH.
I‘KEPA REDNESS.
The whole world is using the word
preparedness” in one sense or rather
at the present time; but what la the
use of preparedness without experience
and efflcency. the knowing how.
In the very near future the voters of
this county will be called upon to
choose a sheriff, whose duty It will be
to deal With desperate characters, to
protect the Interests and guard the
welfare of the people, to ferret out the
criminals and banish them from our
border, to conduct sales of personal
and real property, to serve warrants,
notices of various kinds and make the
proper return, to summon Jurors and
witnesses and execute many other du
ties which devolve upon the county
sheriff and with which the general
public are not familiar. The practical
sheriff should be trained for the Job;
should have had experience and should
he capable of performing each and ev
ery duty with the least possible ex
pense and with the utmost dispatch.
Glair Ward, the present chief deputy
sheriff, appeals to the voters and tax
payers of the county to consider the
qualifications which he possesses for
the office of county sheriff; namely,
four years of training, preparedness,
experience, results. He is a tax payer,
a man with a family, a man of charac
ter, courage and integrity. Do you want
to elect a “raw recruit” for this Import
ant office or does the preparedness slo
gan appeal to you? it should appeal to
you. Vole for the man best qualified for
the office. Think this over, tax payers,
and cast your vote for Clair Ward at
the primary and general election.
SOCIETY CIRCUS.
The ladies of the Isch-ga-Blbble so
ciety have be_en busy this week rehers
ing for the entertainment they are to
put on at the Orpheum this Friday af
ternoon, under the drawing name of a
"Society Circus." The program will be
one that cannot fail to plase made up
as it is of many stunts and musical
numbers. The big bills contain all the
information available as to what can
be expected in the way of attractions,
and at this late hour nothing can be
added that will contribute to increas
ing the expected attendance. The pa
rade lakes place at the hour advertised
on the bills and thalt pageant will be the
hit of the big event. The dance tonight
at the Orpheum will be for the benefit
of the band and that Is an organization
worthy of the support of the entire
community.
AT THE ORPHEUM.
The attraction at the Orpheum tor
Saturday and Sunday evenings will be
of unusual merit, presenting a combi
nation of drama, comedy and educa
tional features that cannot help but
please. The leading attraction is a five
reel western drama “On the Night
Stage," with a comedy "At the Sea
Side,” and an educational feature,
"Viewing the Sherman Institute.” The
entire program makes up an enter
tainment too good to miss.
Till MTV EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
Sunday school at 10 a. ra. Services
are held every Hirst and third Sunday
morning at 11 a. m. Next service will
be held on September 17th. All are
cordially invited.
REV. G. H. SEVERANCE, Vicar.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
Sunday school at 10. Preaching at 11
o’clock. Prayer meeting Thursday at
7 30 p m. We Invite you to our ser
vices A. W. BOND, Pastor.
The primary election takes place
next Tuesday and every registered
voter should take part In the selection
of candidates to be voted on at the
general election. Many of these can
didates must he taken on trust, as it
has been impossible for them to get
around the county and meet up with
every voter. It can be said in justice
to the candidates before the public
that all of them are competent to HU
the position to which they aspire, and
it. Is regrettable that so many must
be disappointed, as one only can be
chosen as a candidate for each office.
M. E. Bowen came rolling into town
last week in one of the new 1917 mod
el Ford cars for which he is the agent
for Oroville and Tonasket with head
quarters at Tonasket. Say; that is
some swell buzz wagon, and the price
has been cut to the marrow so that it
is within the reach of all, except, pos
sibly, a printer. Crown fenders, large
radiator, streamline body, nickle trim
ming the new model Ford is some
nifty car. Then look at the prices as
they appear in their advertisement
elsewhere. The Ford has always been
the low priced auto, and with the new
cut It has reached figures hardly more
than the cost of a good horse and bug
gy.
OROVILLE, WASHIN VTON. SEPTEMBER 8. 191ti
For Saturday and Sunday evenings
the Lyric will present Cleo. Kidgley
and Wallace Reid in "The Golden
Chance,” a thrilling society drama.
For next Wednesday evening the Lyric
will put on “The Ragamuffin,” with
Blanco Sweet as the leading lady. Both
of these attractions are Paramount
features, which announcement in itself
is a recommendation.
Blanche Sweet the Lasky-Paruniouiu
star, “would rather he a ragamuffin
than the finest princess that ever sat
on a throne.” She sat on the edge of
the stage at the Lasky studio when she
uttered these fateful words. Her feet,
clad in oid broken shoes swung back
and forth, and she looked for all the
worltj like a fresh little street Arab.
Rutuor 14904 has It that Mary Pick
ford faas left the Famous Players-Para
mount fold and will issue her releases
through a company iu which she her
self is financially Interested There ap
pears to he some truth to lids lasi
news item. It is also whispered that
Marguerite Clark intends to abandon
screen work! Even so. Paramount will
still have a strong array of attractions.
Kathlyn Williams will now be seen
on thf Paramount program, having left
Sellg; Patrons of the Lyric will remem
ber Miss Williams as the star In the
serial story "The Adventures of Kath
lyn,” by Herald McGrath.
On the eve of the primaries political
dope crowds our space this week, but
that is what Is to be expected at this
particular time.
Rosa Brittain of Antwynu, was in
town. Saturday breaking in a new
Fori. He found It almost as intractable
at times as a bucking cayuse, but he
managed to make the run from Tonas
ket, and as we have heard of no sud
den deaths to the south it is evident
that he managed to get back home
without disaster. Mr. Brittain is now
experimenting with the dimple life, but
a ranch is a narrow Held for a man
with-bis great ability and intelligence.
Mat-n'ot his Hfe has been spent among
men who do things, and he has done
things himself in his time. He 1s a
forceful and resourceful individual
and whever he lives he makes his
presence felt. He is a gentleman of
diversified talent and among those tal
ents is the wielding of a fluent tongue.
He is a speaker of more than ordinary
cleverness and an entertaining con
versationalist. Mr. Brittain has Invested
with others In the new flour mill at
Tonasket, and he and his associates
are putting up a very much larger mill
than the one destroyed by fire this
spring.
The latter part of lust week Attor
ney K. 8. Williams made a rue through
the Molson and Haviltah country, cov
ering upwards of 100 miles in ids car,
for the purpose of noting the von dll lon
of the crops. Mr. W'iliams states that
ne v at. most agreeably surprised at
what he saw in the way of growing
grain. Mr. Williams is no stranger to
that country, having lived at Molson
for several years and witnessed the har
vesting of numerous crops. He says
that nothing that he ever saw in the
past in the way of promising crops
could compare with the showing for
this season. Wheat, oats and barley
fields are going to yield enormously
and 35 to 50 bushels of wheat to the
acre will be a common event. He stat
ed that Pete Stansbury will thresh
fully 25,000 bushels of grain, largely
wheat, and a Mr. Sohn, living near
Havlliah, is another rancher who is
going to fall into a small fortune from
this year’s grain. And so It goes all
along the line. The hill country far
mers are going to have money to chuck
at the bords next winter.
R. L. Picken, who has a heavy road
contract near Republic,, and who is
a candidate for the legislature on the
republican ticket from this county,
came in Monday evening and spent
the night in Oroville on a trip through
the county repairing fences that have
fallen Into some decay through neg
lect. Mr. Picken has been so busy that
he could not devote time to canvass
ing early in the campaign, hut will de
vote the last few days before the pri
maries getting around. Mr. Picken re
quires no introduction to the people
of Okanogan county. He is well and
widely known, having served one terra
in the legislature and a term as coun
ty commissioner. If nominated and
elected to the legislature this fall Mr.
Picken will not enter the legislative
body as a novice. He knows the ropes
and would be in a position to accom
plish something for his constituents.
In public office Bob Picken has al
ways been honest and above board,
and from what we know of him we
believe his word Is as good as a bond.
Personally he is a most likeable chap,
and his sterling qualities have made
him a host of warm friends who will
stick by him through thick and thin.
AT THE LYRIC.
VOTER’S RALLY.
As there are many who do not entirely
understand the method of voting under
the law, and especially among the ladies, a
mass meeting is called for Monday even
ing. at 8 o’clock, at the Library Building
at which time and place sample ballots
will be used for Instructing voters. The
ladies are especially invited. This Is a
non-partlzan meeting solely for the pur
pose ot conveying information to voters.
VOTER'S LEAGUE
A. .). Nickle, tlio well kuowu Touas
ket merchant, was u visitor in town
over Wednesday night.
The Luke View Dairy has purchased
10. VV Mallory’s dairy cows and taken
over Mr. Mallory’s milk route.
Mrs. Geo. Major and baby of Oroville
are here on a visit to her grandmother.
Mrs, Hawkins, of Tuuk creek. —River-
side Tribune.
I'he commercial clah is arranging to
bald a luncheon on Thursday evening
September 21. Further particulars will
he given next week.
Frank R. Atkins, one ot the repub
lican candidates for county clerk, was
a visitor iu town Wednesday working
lug in the Interests ot his candidacy.
Trinity Guild of the Episcopal church
will have a booth at the Orpheum this
afternoon, and have a parcel post and
home made candy sale in connection
with the entertainment hilled at that
place.
The game law for birds is somewhat
contusing. Tlie three brands of grouse
cuminou to this country are ready tor
the killing after the Ist ot September.
Prairie chickens are not meat for the
hunter until after September 15th and
ducks are immune until the Ist of Oc
tober. It must be a hunter quick of eye
and discerning who escapes breaking
Hie law, for when a chicken or grouse
gets ui> from cover a hunter must look
the bird carefully over before shooting
or he might accidentally kill a chicken
PAID ADVERTISEMENT
(Paid by (be Loyal Friends fo Mr.
Hart.,)
Davenport Times —Charles C. Hart
looms well above the other six candi
dates in the congressional race be
cause of his unusual experience In the
national capital which has fittingly
qualified him to become a useful leg
islator for the Fifth district. A first
choice vote for Mr. Hart Is one for a
man already trained tor the job, and
who can immediately be of real good
to the district where any other would
have to spend a term In learning the
ropes.
Colville Statesman-Index—Charles
C Hart, former secretary to Congress
man LaFollette and for five years a
newspaper correspondent In Washing
ton D. G., is a candidate tor the re
publican nomination to congress from
this district. His experience affords the
voters of this district a rare opportuni
ty to make a good choice on September
12.
Cheney Free Press —Hart is running
on a platform which includes real pub
lic experience and unquestioned ability.
He is trained and ready for the job.
What one of his opponents can say as
much?
Big Bend Empire, Waterville—Chas.
C. Hart, who will in all probability be
the republican nominee for congress,
is making a splendid campaign, and if
you have not made up your mind as to
whom to give your first choice or sec
ond choice vote, you should give Mr.
Hart's candidacy consideration. His
many years’ experience in public work
has kept him in touch with the people
Okanogan Independent—No man
among the candidates to represent the
Fifth district in congress has done
more for the citizens of Okanogan
county individually or for the general
welfare of the county than Charles C.
Hart. * * * He has impressed the
people of Okanogan county as a man
who would know what to do with the
office of representative in congress If
elected. • * • If the contest were
left to Okanogan county there is not
much doubt what the result would be.
Chelan News-Leader —Charles C.
Hart is outstripping the field in the re
publican race for congress in this dis
trict. and it is because the people ap
preciate his special training for the
work; because they appreciate a
chance to vote for a man who is skilled
in the work he seeks to perform. He
Is a big man and much above the aver
age of those seeking these congression
al jobs.
Cashmere Record—Sizing up the
congressional race in the Fifth district
at this stage, the situation in Chelan
county apparently stands. Hart against
the field. He Is the only man in the race
who would not have to be introduced
around congress before he could begin
service. Then why not give him the
out of season, and that would put him
in bad with the authorities. You can't
shoot first and apologize afterwards in
a case of this kind, and to stop and
ask a bird his pedigree before banging
away almost invariably means the loss
of that bird.
Anson Cobb of Oroville, is in We
natchee and expects to spend a few
months with the Van Haverskerke
family. Mrs. Cobb Is the daughter ot
Mrs, Van Haverskerke.—Wenatchee
World.
Mrs. D. E. Kinchelo, late ot Cali
fornia, left Saturday morning for
Walla Walla, to make her home after
having spent the past month la Oro
vllle visiting with her sister, Mrs.
Chas. T. Peterson.
A lady osteopath physician. Dr. A.
L. Garnett, has located in Orovllle and
has an office in the second story of the
Covert block. Dr, Garnett has the rep
utation of being thorough in her
school of practice, and as osteopathy is
gaining ground in the country as a
method of treating ailments, the doc
tor should build up a considerable
practice in the surrounding country.
M. U. Howe, of Watervllle, republi
can candidate before the primaries for
joint senator, spent a few hours la
town Monday while making the last
rounds of the county prior to election.
Mr. Howe has met with the most flat
tering encouragement throughout the
district, which includes Okanogan,
Ferry, Douglas and Grant counties, and
if men stick to their word he will prob
ably be the nominee. That would not
be a misfortune for the district, for it
is seldom that a man of such standing
and intelligence as Mr. Howe can be
induced to run for public office. He Is
not only a courteous gentleman, but he
has ability far above the ordinanry and
he would be a force In any legislative
body. His advocacy ot any measure
would carry weight, and he would com
mand influence and respect among his
associates on account of his rare quali
fications. If Mr. Howe is nominated and
elected the people of the district will
never have cause to regret their choice.
PAID ADVERTISEMENT
nomination?
Pateros Reporter—Since his first vis
it the situation has developed rapidly
in his favor. His candidacy appeals
strongly to all classes because he is
not campaigning on any hobby. He Is
offering himself to the voters as the
only man in the race with special train
ing for the commission he seeks.
Oroville Gazette —As his cards state,
he is "A man already trained tor the
Job," as he spent some years in Wash
ington directly in touch with congres
sional affairs. Mr. Hart made an excell
ent impression in this county.
Colville Examiner—The other can
didates are known only by the fact that
the most of them have been candidates
for congress or something else, while
Mr. Hart has been doing something of
an unselfish public nature to make
himself known.
Mansfield News—The most striking
development of all the political cam
paign in eastern Washington is the
rapid growth of strength shown by
Charles C. Hart, candidate for the re
publican nomination to congress in this
dlstr.ct.
Republic News-Miner—Of the seven
candidates for congress in this district.
Charles C. Hart of Spokane seems to bo
the favorite in this county for first
choice.
Bridgeport Republican—Charles C.
Hart, candidate for the republican
nomination to congress. 1s fast making
friends and it is safe to predict that he
will be the winner in the primaries. A
vote for Charles C. Hart is a vote for
the right man.
Marcus Messenger—No campaign
slogan ever carried a sounder truth
than the one adopted by him, “A man
already trained for the Job.” His ex
perience in Washington is something
on which he can appeal to the people
for support and they are showing their
appreciation. He is a man who has
been doing something.
Wlnthrop Journal—His nomination
and e'ection would mean that he could
go tc Washington and begin active,
efficient service without wasting two
years of the peoples time In getting
acquainted.
Leavenworth Echo—Charles C. Hart,
an old newspaper man long connected
with the Spokesman-Review, flrst as
city editor and afterwards as Washing
ton correspondent, Is making them all
go some in his race for congress.
Brewster Herald—Out in the coun
try we know Charlie Hart candidate
for the republican nomination to con
gress. He came out and got acquainted
with us. He was born on a farm and
later lived In a country tovn and un
like the other six ‘‘city lellers” who
are running against him, he felt at
home among us. He liked us and wi
nked him. On September 1? we are go
ing to give him enough votes to wad
91.50 PER YEAH
