iiilircil
COWRIER
KEYTESVILLE, CHARITON COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER, 8 1916
Number 32
'Volume XLVII
GREAT STRIKE IS OFF
- Richardson Allega . .
Hack Richardson and Miss
Julia Bess Allega sure sprung a
President Wilson and Congress surprise on all their mends Sat-
Rnsh Preventive Measore. urday when they were united in
Country Pleased. Imarriaze at the home of tne
brides parents southeast of towp.
What would have been as great it has been an event looked for
calamity as war except in the by all those who have observed
particular of loss of hie was the youthful pair for the past
averted by the prompt action oi two years, but when it was an-
President Wilson and a congress nounced Thursday evening for
ftUvAtnour creat commercial in- Saturdav at noon there was
terests. The vexatious Mexican mucn commotion in their circle.
muddle is a Bmall matter com- Kev. J. F. Wolf brother-in-law
Youif Label
Will tell you how your subscription stands. If not cor
rect, we want to put it right.! Many have favored us by ad
vancing their dates with remittances and it may be that we
will not have to use a Bine -Mark again. It is owing to
those who owe. ;
Jasper Marion Peery J: K.HS.
One of the most familiar faces ; School opened Monday with
on the streets of Brunswick wil) the following corps of teachers;
be seen no more. :1 Prof. J. C. Bond supenntendant,
CasDer Jasper M. Peery died , Miss Mary McCall principal, and
pared with what confronted the 0(the groom, officiated at the at his home Sunday September , Misses Jo Martin and Helen
nation last week. Railroads put- pretty home of Mr. and Mrs. 3 aged 84 years, 4 months and j Thrash completing the high
ting embargo on all classes of Sam Allega in the ceremony days, after an illness extendint ; school force. Misses Patsy Han-
,f vofnaintr to receive nnitoH for life in the hands thru mnnv mnntha. t cock, manon vvime, Eitiiauein
certain kinds at all, was a sam- 0f wedlock two of our prominent Captain Peery was born in ! White, Myrtle Miller in charge
pie of what ,, the nation would and popular natives, and after a Howard County and came to or tne grades as namea ana miss
have gotten had the half million sumptuous wedding dinner the Brunswick in 1855 and engaged Araminta Waterman conducting
trainmen on the main transpor- happy pair boarded a train for jn the lumber business. vHj the music department.
tation lines of the country been St. Louis. sold his first yard and purchased i ihe school opened witn yt in
forced to carry out strike orders Wallace (Huck) Richardson, a steamboat which he operated i tne nign scnooi ana iw in tne
tn Mnndftv The oresidents Lnn of Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Rich- Ln th Missouri river for ttfoi grades and with much interest
- - . i I .... . I ....
conferences with the neaas oi ardson of this city, is a native years after which he reengagea
unions and presidents of rail- 0f the county and has spent the jn the lumber business with,
roads had proved futile. Presi- greater part of his life in this judge L. H. Herring who retired)
dent Wilson laid the serious ques-Cityt graduating at the high to his farm and Capt. Peery h3
tion before the leaders of the school and assisting in the drug conducted a business in lumber
United States Senate and House business during vacation. He to the date of his death,
of Representatives and they chose dentistry for his profess- November 27, 1872, Capt. Jas
agreed with his views. ional career and will complete per M. Peery and Miss denude
President Wilson's program the course at Washington uni- Wood who was from Virginia ana
embraced among other thing, versity by the first of the coming visiting in Brunswick were unit
legislation for a legalized eight- year. ed in marriage. Mrs. Peery died.
hour day for raiiroaa trainmen a young man just amvea at m March iau& leaving as sur
employed in interstate commerce, his majority, he will succeed be- vivorsof Capt Peery, Earl, Her
ecmmilaory suspension of strikes cause his ambition, energy and bert and Jasper.
and lock-outs while a Govern- character all deserve success. Capt. Perry was in the confed-1
ment board is investigating dis- Universally highly respected and erate service for four years and
nutes between capital and labor, appreciating lifes good things as was in the battle of Lexington
direction to the Interstate Com; well as manly duties; honest and and many others where the fight-i
merce Commission to investigate considerate, bis entire make-up ing was fierce. When he return-,
the effect of the eight-hour day j3 a commendation. ed from the war he was, like
with a view to allowing the rail- Mrs. Julia Bess Richardson is many others engaged in the lost
roads to increase their revenues l0ne of the splendid young women cause, flat broke, but by intre-
so as to meet the additional ex- whom everyone delights to pidity and unfaltering attention
penditure. entailed,, and authority know. -Accomplished : in those to his business -h6 amassed ofi4
W tne EjXecuuye w iuiwiiuuv laria nuauiuieiy eaoeuimi ui euc- siaeraDie property.
officials and employes to operate cessful domestic life; possessing Several years ago Captain
trains assigned to transport intellectual attainments which Peery in company with
troops and for other purely mm- render her most companionable made a business trip to Europe
tary purposes. and personal attraction above and occasionally the rivers al-
A bill embodying many oi tne the average, she is an exception- foremen ts would claim him for
President's reccommendations u young woman whom any a time, but generally he was to
known as the Adamson bill was young man would do well to win. be found at his place of business
framed and the House passed it, Common sense is the heritage of which during the years was at
Friday, 70 Republicans voting both . Mr. and Mrs. Wallace many different points in the
with Democratic members. Sat- Richardson, a possession which city. The unfaltering friendship
urday while President Wilson wjji count for more in their mar- of Capt. Peery and Samuel J.
was receiving at Shadow Lawn rfed career than wealth or place. Carter was a matter of pleasant
formal notification of his nomi- The Courier's heartiest congrat- comment among their friends.
t I . I , ,
nation, the Senate passea tne ulations. What would have been regarded
bill and Monday morning msi- M u u eccentricity in any other was a
dent Wilson put his signature to Martha Herring characteristic perfectly fitting
it and the wheels of thousands Youngest daughter Mr. and tie stalwart pioneer. He was
of trains continued to turn. Mrs. L. H. Herring was born at one of the most companionable
Union labor organizations and Middletown, Md. June 22, 1855 of men among his intimate
all of the producers of the coun- and died at the residence of her friends.
try are lauding the levelheaded- half sister, Mrs. Chas. Pelsue at Capta'n Peery was a member
nessand business ability oi the Paris Mo. Sept 3 1916, there- 0f the Masonic order and an
greatest President in the nis- suit of a fall. Her mother died Episcopalian Funeral services
tory of the country. during her infancy and she came were conducted Tuesday after-
- T to this county with her father noon at St, Paul's Episcopal
Jennie Vaughan Beroneus . RtPn.mnther in 1882 and all .WUVRV F.H Johnannnf
l.UUU KTJ w wmmww..
Salisbury Scribblings
Wm. C. Moredock, aged 79,
whose illness we have mentioned
from time to time, passed away
at his home on West 4th street
at 5:40 Thursday afternoon, Aug.
31. 1916, after a heroic fight for
his life, leaving a wife and one
son to mourn his death. After
short funeral services at the
home, Saturday morning, re
mains were taken to Keytesville
for interment. Deceased was an
old citizen highly respected, a
member cf the Baptist church,
a good neighbor and faithful
friend. His passing is regretted
but in his case death was a re
lief. Peace to his remains.
on the part of teachers and pu
pils, and if we do not have a
very successful school, we will
quit guessing on the vexatious
problem that has confronted the
board for the past few years.
Mrs. Louise Moore resigned
the position given her by the
board and Miss Waterman was
selected for music and drawing.
The teachers in the grades have
two grades each to look after
and the enrollment for the term
is somewhat over the average,
The school building and grounds
have been put in excellent shape
and the entire district will wel
come the outlook for more har
monious and consequently more
successful work and greater
benefits to pupils.
Big Conference
Fayette was an unusually wel
attended affair last week. The
sermon by Bishop Hendricks
was of the high order always
characterizing his utterances,
and he presided over the meet
ing most successfully.
The conference placed the
following ministers; Rev. M. C.
Davis at this city, Rev. Bowles
at Brunswick, Rev. B. H. Small
wood at Dal ton and Asbury, Rev.
W. M. Baker at Salisbury. Rev.
R. S. Cunningham at Prairie
Hill, Re?. W. L Meyers was
sent to Cowftill, Rev. J. A. Snarr
to Franklin and Clark.
Rev. Parvin was made Pres.
Elder for the Chillicothe district
and Rev. Ransford for the Fay
ette district, bringing them asrain
in touch with Brunswick and
this city.
GO. COMMITTEE MEETING
Judge Fred Williams Present.
Innocuous Endorsement
Another Shot
Only child of Albert G. Elliott her life was afflcted with : phy si- Kansas City during which the
and beloved wife of Harry Be- cal infirmity. After the death of business houses of the city were
roneus of Kansas City, died at father she made her home with closed.
her home in that city Sunday 6 1 her step-mother until in 1902. Interment at Elliott Grove
p. m. of tubercular affection, after, which Martha made her Cemetery.
Aged about 24. home with her half sisters, Mrs
Jennie Vaughan Elliott was Mary Pelsua and Mrs. Wm P.
well known in society here and Parks.. ' While Martha Herring
was not only, a very handsome was badly afflicted phyBicially,
young woman, but intellectual she was a woman of strong men
and highly sociable. ' tal force and was an uncomprom
An infant son, Harry, and her faing member of the Methodist
husband survive the deceased in church from girlhood. Funeral
addition to a number of other services and interment at Asbury
relatives here and in the west . Chapel Monday, Rev. Pugh con
ducting the services,
Free.To State Fair x good number of friends of
Nine vounor men were on hand the family as well aa Mr. and
to compete for the free admiss- Mrs. C F. Palsue, Mr. and Mrs.
ion etc to tne oiaie rair, wis ty. r. tw, uu wn.
month. It was a fine lot of Lloyd Herring, Mr. and Mrs C.
vnnna nien who Dresented them- H. Herring and son, Walter
selves and the winner will have Herring, Mr. and Mrs. Harry
something more than a most de- Herring, and Judge L. H Her-
lifrhtful and instructive triD to ring, surviving relatives, were
boast of. ' , ' present
Tho r.nmmittee will nass on
ta. am;Mtinni nd th liirkw The Missouri metnoaist uon
The Teachers Meeting
There were about 150 teachers
present at the meeting here Aug,
29-30 and as fine looking body of
young people as could be gath
ered at a Wedding. "I
Organization, discussion of an
informal nature and answering
questions pertaining to school
matters constitutited the busi
ness of the days. Young teach
ers, on their firs legs, as
were, benefited by observations
of those who have stood in the
pedagogical harness for years.
It was a great meeting, intelli
gence, ability and beauty being
well represented. '
it
Mexico
Apparently nothing
doing,
.... . ., r I riaa nlaHratu1 ifo rmnHparith nennino sin lntimnriin frnm I ;nn
st no win hA mmm in rnp .ouner raw vtre.i f- "o
, i, anniversary in rayette last diaate nugnes as to wnat ne
ucaw net. - - -. . . , , . . ., ,
week. There was a large at-iwouia aoune naatne cnance.
Rained water In office today, tendance all week. J'ThereUes therub.
Eden McNew Seriously Hurt
Saturday as Mr. and Mrs. Eden
McNew. Mr. and Mrs. Oscar
Patnott and Miss Mabel were
returning in a car from a camp
out excursion to Twin Falls,
Idaho, a casing on their auto
blew out and Eden and Oscar got
out to make the repair necessary.
While putting the wheel back on
the car the casing burst and a
section of it struck Eden on the
head, fracturing the skull Hi
was given emergency treatment
by a physician in a small town
near, by and hurried to a hospital
in Twin Falls where an operation
was performed, . a number . of
fragments of bone taken from
his brain and the displaced sec
tions of the skull put in place.
A letter to Mrs. Walter Herr
ing gives only the above partic
ulars with the further informa
tion that Eden had not recover
ed consciousness at the time of
writing but tha the head nurse
had just reported as Miss Mabe
was closing her letter that the
patient was resting better and
more favorable symptoms were
developing.
Dr. J. F. Welch made a pro
fessional visit to Moberly last
Friday.
Ouritims have an aggravat
ing way of getting lost between I
here and the Capitol, but we
don't see how they do it We
start them on time and that's all
we can do.
Sam Williams and family have
returned from a delightful motor
trip to the state of Ark. Their
Ford never once balked, and
three tire punctures was the
total sum of their mishaps. Can
you beat it?
Chas. Schorge was taken to
St Louis Tuesday night for
medical treatment.
Mrs. H. C. Minter visited Mrs
Ella Moredock this week.
Mrs. Bent Heryford has re
turned from a visit to Valley
Falls, Kas.
T. J. Horton, J. W. Grizzell
and W. R. Tindall have pur
chased 180 acres of the John
McAvan estate at $G0 per acre,
Miss Carrie Sasse of Bruns
wick is visitine Mrs. A. Warner
this week.
The Courier man was over
Wednesday hustling for his
paper. It's a way he has,
Grandma Dobson is all smiles
on account of the arrival of
new boy at the home of her son,
Ed, at Osceola, Mo., this being
their first
Our schools started this week
and the procession of children
on their way iooks more nice a
ashion parade than school girls
J. H. Brown and wife, Mrs
Nellie Finnell of Minneapolis are
here on a visit to relatives and
friends. They motored thru in
two days.
The sewer proposition again
failed to carry Tuesday, and we
do not know what the next move
will be. The idea seems to be
sewer3 or bust or sewers and
bust depending on the view
point
Miss Bertha Smith left Sunday
m. to take charge of her
school three and half miles north
of Keytesville.
J. 0. Snyder has purchased
the Bank building, cor. 3rd and
Broadway.
A few cases of fever have de
veloped here and a cleaning up
is ordered.
Post master Hamilton was
limping badly the latter part of
the week, the result of a fall on
his knee. He was not seriously
injured, however, and will get
the mail out on time.
J. P. Henderson of Kansas
City made a week end visit here
since our last.
Hon. Andrew Herndon, bro
ther of Mrs. Mary H. Philpott
post master at Prescott Ariz.,
and wife are here on a viBit to
relatives and friends.
Mrs. Eliza Kimbrougb,
A fine, slow rain all day
terday. ; ,
yes-
The County Democratic Cen
tral Committee met at the court
house Wednesday afternoon,
present; M. W. Anderson, chair
man and Wade McAlister, sec
retary and committeeman as
follows:
Bee Branch Proxy. Walter Her
ring Brunswick -Judge L. H. Herring
Bowling Green -T. H. Cars-
kaddon
Cockrell Lee Gunn
Chariton Proxy Thos Copeland
Keytesville M. W- Anderson
Mendon -Frank Laughlin
Missouri Proxy Warner White
Mussel Fork -J. D. Ford
Salt Creek-Peter Gladbach
Salisbury Don Brummall
Triplett-Wade McAlister'
Wayland-Proxy. C 0. Houston
Judge Fred Williams, nominee
or Supreme Judge wa3 here
representing the state committee
and outlined the campaign plans
of the state committee.
The greatest interest manifest
ed was concerning the endorse
ment of J no. D. Taylor for the
State Senate. The argument
made by Taylor's chief supporters
was that the endorsement was
of no particular consequence,
two proxies and two of the regu
lar committee being the only
ones urging the resolution. Sev
eral' who opposed the resolution
openly, voted for it on roll call.
Clark and Cunningham town
ships were not represented. The
proxy for Wayland did not vote
but objected to the resolution.
The vote stood nine for, three
againat two absent and two not
voting. A motion to make it
unanimous was last, it is un
derstood that the action of the
committee does not shut out oth
er candidates in this county. It
was left to chairman Anderson
to pass on the matter of a pref
erential primary or delegated
convention after Linn and Sulli
van counties act Linn county
has two candidates and Sullivan
two.
The county committee adopted
plans for a county campaign
which, if carried out, will be ef
fective and get out a big vote and
of course a great Democratic majority.
Sewing Club Entertained
The sewing club was delight
ully entertained by Mrs. H. CJ
Miller last Friday afternoon.
Some sewing was done, games
played and light refreshments
served and a most enjoyable af
ternoon spent by an unusually
large number of the club.
Program U. D. C
James Whitcomb Riley. -
Roll Call-Quotations from Riley
Sketch of Riley's Life-Mis Jane
Anderson
Poems Riley Mrs. Chas. Lamkin
Business. Selection of Delegates
Leader-Mrs. C. C. Parks.
Hostess Mrs. J. E. Montgomery
Tuesday evening September 12.
Dougherty, and husband visited
at the home of Will Dougherty
the first of the week.
Conference did a wise thing
when it sent Rev. Ward Baker
back to this place for another
year. He has not only been a
great help to the churrh, but to
the town. He stays on the job.
S. J. Leach and wife of Hu
mansville, Mo., are here on a
few days visit to relatives and
friends.
Louise Lamb, daughter of
Judge Lamb, has fever, but not
nee in a severe form. We hope for
her a speedy recovery.
Endorsement per contra.
J
