THE
nrgatt fflittj latlu iRntiritt
VOI- n
MORGAN CITY. LA.. ShiPTKMBKR
1 1 * j 1
►. vi ; -
ety First
Ano'ic- I > insurance as well as
other bu ••ness. 1 had this in
mind v L • ! 'ct'ng companies
represented y roe.
Strong. Liberal
and Prompt
Pennsylvania Fire, Pa.
America Eagle Fire . N. Y.
Imperial Asssurance , N. Y.
Security, New Haven. Conn.
Western Assurance, Toronto
Ufe Insurance, New York Life
Accident Insurance, Travelers
Compensation Insurance, Travelers
Marine Insurance, Neare, Gibbs & Lent
fa n Je, Plate Glass, Southern Security Co.
Fire and Tornado, American of Newark, N. J.
I have had the experience and
know how to protect you. Your
business will be appreciated.
FRANK VAUGHAN
Office Belanger Bldg. Telephone 27
Notice:
We have today purchased the business and good-will of the
Margin City Plumbing Co., and are now in position to figure on
»ok of all kind. We carry a complete line of Plumbing Goods
| adSippiies, and will give estimates promptly.
We will do your plumbing
Work with a small cash payment, and easy terms for the balance.
Let Us Figure With You
DYER-LEHMANN CO.. LTD.
aaaaaaaaaaaa;
Do your banking with the largest and <
moat up-to-date hank in the city >
The First National Bank
A
Morgan City, La.
"The Place for Safety"
Capital and Surplus 100,000.00
Resources < >ver $500,000.00
• hilhank is su|iervist*d by the' ( 'umptroller <>f the Currency of
the United .states (>overnient and the affairs are N$
conduite,) hi leading business men of \^
this city
Our Aim, - Kffieient Service \>
Motto.- Security for our depositors v
Your business solicited, large :>r small we serve all. po
n . • fffirers Ap
Ootton. P'.-sident. Eugene A, f'harr. V-President.
^MsnceE. Norman. V-Prt-s.n. nt, Ke unie U. Hood, Cashier.
y* Chas. P. Lynch. Asst't. Cashier.
JjVAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAXXVV
WE ARE HEADQUARTERS FOR
Msts Garden and Flower Seeds
■ ^ve just received a large ship
and can supply our customers
**" ®ôr wants
klanger drug company
the rexall store
fï Have you sub
. Mmton City Re
P*r month
consistently
paper.
The Morgan City Weekly Re
view $1.50 per year in advance.
SEE I. W PADDOCK
FOR INSURANCE tf
POLICE JURY PÜOIÏÏDINGS.
(Continued on page 3)
Review til Hie Deiiberatiuns ui ihe Parish Fathers At
fheir Monthly Meeting,
i _____
The Stptember session of the St. Mary Parish Police Jurors was held
at Franklin on Wednesday of this week and the Review presents its readers
with the following unoilicial report of its proceedings:
The Police Jury meeting for September was called to order with Hon.
Charles X. Frost presiding and the following members present : T. 11. Kim
brough. Gabriel Haydel. Sidney J. Wolford, Arthur Olivier, Oscar Bou
dreaux. W. X. Gooch, T Aucoin, Jno. R. Drackett and A. E. Gahn;
i absent: John A. Pharr.
I The minutes of the last meeting with the exception of certain re
! ports and estimates from outstanding committees which were omitted from
the reading were read and unanimously adopted.
Dr. Goodwin and Mr. Bernard of Iberia parish appeared before the
j Police Jury asking that St. Mary parish designate the fair to be held this
I fall at Iberia as the St. Mary Parish Fair in order that they may obtain
: the appropriation of $-00 made by the state for the parish of St. Mary in
the event of a fair being held in this laredi In response to the petition
of the gentlemen from Iberia, Mr. Drackett made h motion, second-'.] tiy
Mr. Gooch to the effect that the Police Jury authorize the holding of a
Eve stock and agricultural exhibit by the parish of St. Mary, same to
be held on the dates of September 2h to October 1, and place of exhibit
t< be in the city of Iberia and to he held in conjunction with the Teche
l'air to be held in that city on the dates named. The motion was carried.
On motion presented and passed a permit was issued to J. W. Ro.ler
guez and Sons for half year saloon license, conditional upon th.<- legal
requirements being met by the communicators.
Claims or labor and damage to crops ensuing from the budding of
model roads through the properties of Max Peters and Henry Taylor in
the sums of $35.00 each were referred to the Engineer Loustalot for ap
proval and subsequent payment after routine consideration by the Jury.
A communication from Walter Y. Kemper was read relative to a
permit to rebuild their bridge on the Teche. On motion made an»' .econded
the jury voted to authorize the reconstruction of the draw-bridge by the
Oak Bluff Planting and Manufacturing Company across the Bayou Teche
at or near its present site on the Oak Bluff plaotation about four miles
above the town of Franklin on the following conditions, the bridge
to be so constructed as not to interfere with navigation; the draw span
to be not less than 69 feet clear measure at right angles to the stream;
bridge and approaches to be in accordance with plans to be approved by
the secretary of war.
The issuance of a warrant for $300, comprising the funds remaining
was authorized in favor of the S. W. P. & T. Co., covering claims ore
sented as due to that company.
A communication to Mr. W. C. Baker and one to the Police Jury
relative to the payment of warrants to C. W. Clements, constable of the
6th ward, resulted in motion being passed that warrants for months of
July and August and subsequent warrants be not issued until satisfactory
evidence of the proper performance of duties had been submitted and
accepted.
The report from Mr. E. S. Soucier, demonstration agent, was re
ceived and filed.
The secretary of the Jury was instructed to issue warrant covering
charges by Robert Maitland for conveyance of persons from Morgan
City to Franklin.
A motion was passed instructing the awarding of scholarships to
the Louisiana Industrial Institute to Miss Odys Carlson of Patterson, as
ENJOYABLE EVENING AT EVANGELINE
The benefit of the Helena Circle at the Evangeline last night was
delightful and well attended. Besides "The Seekers" on the screen, the
"clou" of the evening was the vocal part of the entertainment. Misses
Ollie Hebert and Genevieve Grevemberg sang exquisitely, rythmically and
with musical pathos a duet "Aloha-Oa" (Farewell to Thee) and Mr. Chas.
Delas sang with much feeling a song of the past, "When 1 Was a Dreamer"
and Raoul Delas sang in his popular style a song of the future, "When I
Leave the World Behind. All four well merited the lavish applause with
which they were greeted.
MRS. AUGUST GOULAN DEAD
Mrs August Goulan, wife of August Goulan who is well known as a
tinner in this city, died at her home on Fifth Street near Railroad Avenue
last night. The remain? were taken to New Iberia today for burial. Mr.
and Mrs. Goulan formerly lived in New Iberia, the home of the deceased
lady's relatives.
Mr. Goulan and several small children survive Mrs. Goulan and the
sympathy of their friends and acquaintances is extended to thorn in their
bereavement.
M. M. M. SHOWER
Miss Irma Ditch entertained the
M. M. M. Club at a miscellaneous
placher. The shower was arranged in
shower in honor of Miss Julia Bru
a most unique way. When Miss
Brupcher arrived, a parasol was
opened over her hea»l an»l she was
literally showered with beautiful
presents.
Those who enjoyed the occasion
were the Misses Florence Ditch,
Ruth Joret, Winnie Smyly, Ana Mae
Fleury, Lula Mae Campbell, Julia
Bruplacher. Miss Alfreda Golden
was the out of town guest. There
will be a business meeting of the club
Saturday, September 9th.
j
:
We sell the goods that don't
come back to customers that do.
Dver-Lehman Co. Ltd.
The Modern Store.
iThe Morgan City Daily Review,
40c per month delivered.
1
I
Mr. Douglas Xye of New York
after spending the summer with his
relatives Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Pharr,
will leave next week for Alexandria
where he has accepted the position
of director and supervisor and in- -
: structor in the public schools there.,
j From the encomiums of able critics 1
Alexandria is to be congratulated on ;
j securing the services of this espec- '
Gaily talented young man whose
(Course of study was pursued in the
.best New York schools of music and
under the instruction of the re
renowned, Mr. Damrosch. Mr. Xye
takes with his the best wishes of his
many friends in his field of work to
which he is trulv born.
Feed Norris Candy.—Peoples'
Drug Co.
.. __________ _
D. C. Walsh returned • Thursday
evening from a business visit to New
Orleans.
School starts soon. Cold lunch
es in demand. We specialize on
good things for them.
Dver-Lehman Co. Ltd.
)
!
j
n
$
IS
hr rine
ST1
R I !\
E OR NO STRIKE
Our f
alt <
foods hi . • ri\ ed. W
hate
the
most wore ' tip line of
men's
; wo
ar for you this Yuli
that
has
ever been displaced in
Mor«.
an
( it y . Prices Ke at.
Qu li
;>• t
he Highest.
1
Ml
V» hen \ ou 1 hink of —
VINDEX SHIRTS
REGAL SHOES
KNOX HATS
ARROW COLLARS
t l KLEE TROl'SERS
HEAT URl MEL TAILOR
ING
I Î ROADW A Y N K< K W EAR
Y IN HEX UNDERWE AR
—Think of Us. We have every -
thing for the man.
"Quality First" Always
The Store that unreduced the
famous $2.00 hat in this city.
(pM
WK .) U ST R ECEI \ ED FRO M
FACTORY IN EVANSVILLE
One Pretty Three Piece library Suit
In English covered with genuine brown Spanish leather
suit au a very m oderate price
Ue also Have in Transit To Arrive This Week
A Five Piece Parlor Suit
-Mahogayn Finish: Somethin? that will add to any horn*
Home Furnishing Co.
General Line of Furniture and House Furnishings
Neit to Belanger's Drag Store Phene 16
GUS DREWS,
President
K- W. DREI H HOLZ,
Vice-Presdt
The Bank of Morgan Gty
first on the roll of honor
Has larger deposits, surplus and resources
in proportion to capital than any Bank in
the Parish of St, Mary.
It is your duty to protect your valuable papers; we ask
you to call at this Bank and w<- will be pleased to show
you cur .safety deposit boxes
The deed to your property, or a life insurance policy,
jewelry nor in usti and tax receipts ;U e worthy of n safe
deposit I »ox; these boxes are in a steel vault and can onlv
be opened with the key rh.tt we -give vo u We rm V ou
these boxes for S3.(JO p»-r year
Capital 525,000.00 Surplus $52,000 00
Resoiirciis S360.ft00.00
F. I* VVINGfJb STEM
< 'ashler
.». B. < >' BRI KN,
Asst > „shier
Let the Morgan City Realty and
Insurance Agency
WORRY
Yes, we aie worrying in giv our polo ta» » i
the best service in the best and strongest com
panies in America, and shnu-d you ha\ -, ns, v , u
don't need t<> worry oecui»-. we re rosen: tin*
best.nisiiranee companies >». the wot Id.
MORGAN CITY REALTY AND 1NURANCE
AGENCY
LEON KAHN. Preside, i I.KWl.s.l. BASS, Manager.
' ^ ** W
)
Morgan City Livery Co.
PAItlSli|aGENTS KOI;
Chevrolet Cars
We ke»-p parts forfsani*- Dernnrst'-atinn gladly giv.-u. Phone 135-11"
