Jefferson Davis Parish's Leading IWeekly Newspaper
VOLUME XVII. VELSH, JEFFERSON DAVIS PARISH, LOUISIANA, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916. NUMBER 14
 _ _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..,: : - . . . : .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . : . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ . . .
HIGHWAY ENGINEER REPORT
SURVEY NEARLY COMPLETE
The Police Jury met yesterday in
regular session and transacted the
regular rotine of business.
No matters of special importance
came up at this meeting.
Col. W. L. Stevens, highway engin
eer, met with the Police Jury and re
ported that practi'ally all of the routes
had been survedl andl that the engineers
were now ready to begin the cross.
section work. lie thinks the complete
survey, with nlaps anl( estimates, will
be ready to submit to the Police Jury
by Novemter Ist., and contracts for
construction will be let provided no
unusual delay halppens. lie made
several recommend:ltions with refer
ence to width of roads, building of
bridges and culverts, etc., which were
adopted by the Po;ice Jury.
The princicpal hi gh.vl.y across the
parish east and west will not be less
than fourteen feet of metal surface in
width with a full crown of twenty-four
feet.
The width of the metal surface
through the incorporated towns will
not be less than 12 feet, on all other
roads with a full crown of 24 feet, ex
cept where there are established
streets the width must conform there
to. All other impirovcd roads will have
a metal surface of not less than nine
feet with a full crown of eighteen feet.
The Police Jury nmdde application to
the State Highway Hoard or engineers
for State aid for 1917 and made an ap
propriation of $50.00 as part of expense
of making surveys and estimates look.
ing to the construction of a bridge
across the Mcermei.tau river It is
understood that Acadia parish has ap
propriated a like 'u,n for the same
purpose. It is understood that the
bridge can he constructed from the
State fund withoat any cost to the
Parish.
AT THE CATHOLIC HALL
NEXI TUESDAY NIGHT
On Tuesday night, the 12th. inst., the
Catholic Ladies will give a social at
their hall.
Different amusements will be fur
nlshed where old and young may pass
an enjoyable evening. Music by the
Welsh Band, Refreshments will be
--Press Com.
MR. A. BENOIT WITH
WELSH MOTOR CAR CO.
Having enlisted my services with
the Welsh 1lotor Car Co., agents for
Ford cars and repair parts in this
district, I take this means of extend
ing to my many friends in this terri
tori an invitation to visit me at the
otflchs of this concern in the old
Southern Mercantile building, where I
will be pleased to serve you in the
lines handled by this company, at any
time, day or night. Should you de
sire to purchase during the hours
when the store is closed, call me at
my residence. Respectfully,
* A. BENOIT.
NEW LICENSES ARE
NOW ON SALE
The new 191!; hunting licenses have
been received at the parish tax col
lector's office, and are now on sale.
The licenses cost $1 each, and entitle
C resident of the state to hunt any
wher in its boundaries. The free
huating in a parish ward in which the
hunte resides has been abolished by
the ldegislature.
On the back of the new hunting li
esnes is a summary of the game
laws, so that hunters caught with
8trlband game cannot offer as ain
anew that they "didn't know it was
£pii the law."
Phone E. C. Willard if
you want Insurance on
Your Rice.
SI- ' I.
23 LEADS THIS TIME
BY SMALL MAJORITY
The closing of the second lap of the
Automobile Contest finds a number of
the contestants running neck and
neck, while some of the others are
gaining rapidly. We would not be
surprised to see some of those who are
trailing quite a distance behind the
leaders come up into the front ranks
before the next count. The unsolicited
support their fliends are according
them may encourage them to get out
and hustle for the big prize.
This time No. 23 leads with a total of
213.525 votes, and is therefore awarded
the 42 piece dinner set which is on dis
play at the Journal Book Store.
The next count will be made on Sept.
20th., when another dinner set will be
awarded. It is a rule that no con
testant will be awarded more than one
dinner set; so, should the same con.
testant lead a second time the dinner
set will be awarded to the next high
and so on until the ten sets are a
warded.
The color of the coupons will be i
changed to green Sept. 11th and all of 1
the golden rod series must be in the
ballot box not later than 1:00 o'clock p.
m. Sept. 20th; after which date they
will be void.
Contestants are urged to mark their
number plainly on the back of each
coupon or trade check sold, to insure
their getting the proper credit.
Trade checks must be purchased
from the contestants, add not at the
store. They are issued in one, two and I
five dollar denominations and are ac
cepted in making any purchase or pay.
ment of any bill, past, present or
future.
There is still time to enter the cor.
test and win the capital prize.
Ask for votes with every purchase
and clip the coupons from the Journal.
Help your friend to win the valuable
prizes.
Following is the standing of the con.
testants September 6th:
1----....... .......... __ 5000'
2-- -------------...........5000
3---.....................165665
4-------------------.....................5000
5......................... 5000
6 ....................-------------------5000
7.-____-----------------.201220
8------ ---..... 18435'
9.............----------------..........16275
10......-----------------19365
11--.....-----------------12050
12.....................--------------------5000
13 .................. 6__63400
14......................-----------------144401
15-------........................-----------.9050
16----------------......................13500
17-----...... -----------12000
18 ....................31105
189-----------------------31105
19..... .___ ..... ........ .11685
20.........---- .-------..........19000
21......... ......---------20000
22-------_ _-....... -5050
23-..-...------ ------213525
24- .---- ---------_.... 5000
25....--------- ----.........----36125
26------.........-. --------............5000
27 -----........................-25275
28-........-------------198875
29---------........--------..............192720
30-----.............-----------25335
Juat received-car load
of Red Top Flour "fresh
and free from bugs."
Model Grocery, phone 14.
KINDER PEOPLE SHOULD
BE MORE COURTEOUS
From Kinder Gazette: District At
torney Edwards, candidate for con
gress, addressed a crowd of 28 at the
city hall Friday night in the interest
of his candidacy.,
Mr. Edwards is a forceful speaker
and deserved a larger crowd out of
courtesy if nothing more.
The race for congress is generally
conceded to be betwewen Congress
man Lazaro and Mr. Edwards who
will run it out in a second primary.
T. Arthur Edwards Spoke Here Tuesday Night;
He Strongly Favors Two-Cent Tarriff on Rice
Hon. T. Arthur Edwards addressed
a fair sized audience at the Auditor
ium Tuesday night, explaining in de
tail to the voters of Welsh the plat
form upon which he expects to be
elected to congress from this, the
Seventh Congressional district.
Mr. Edwards is an interesting
speaker, his low, soft tone of voice
being much more pleasing than the
usual harsh oratory emitting from the
political platform, and his person
al biography, as well as that of his an
cestry is interesting and historically
instructive to an apprehensive de
gree.
Mr. Edwards' address was supple
mented by a four-reel motion picture
show which the attendance enjoyed
at his expense.
Of his advocacy of a two-cent tar
iff on rice, Mr. Edwards had the fol
lowing to say in a recent letter to Mr.
Otto C. Lightner, Manager of the
Rice Journal, published at Crowley:
I beg to state that I will not vote
for any meausure tending to reduce
the tariff on rice, but on the contrary
will exert myself to the fullest ex
tent of my energy and ability to have
the old tariff restored, and in no in
stance will I vote for any measure
providing a lesser rate.
In the old days thetariff question
was given more than passing import
ance as a party principle. My view
is that it is not a prominent principle
of either the Democratic or Republi
can party, but is a matter largely of
business expediency, reason and jus
tice. I do not think it can be presum
ed that a person holding my views can
be considered at all as sacrificing, or
abanodning any principle of Democ
racy.
Republicanism advocates a central
ized government, an enlargement and
centralization of the powers of our
governmental departments and offi
cials.
The Democratic party stands for a
curtailment of their powers, thus leav.
ing the operations of our government
al affairs in the hands of the people
through officials with limited pow
ers, i. e. restricted powers.
The duties on rice under the pres
ent tariff arrangement are as follows:
Clean rice, lc per pound.
Uncleaned, or rice free from the
outer hull and still retaining the inner
cuticle, 5-8c per pound.
Paddy, or rice still having the outer
hull on, 3-8c per pound.
Rice Flour, Rice Meal, and Brewers'
Rice, 1-4c per pound.
The duties on rice under the previ
ous tariff arrangement were as fol
lows:
Clean Rice, 2c per pound.
Uncleaned, or rice free from the
outer hull and still retaining the inner
cuticle, 1 3-4e per pound.
Paddy, or rice still having the outer
hull on, 3-4c per pound.
Rice Flour, Rice Meal, and Brewers'
Rice, 1-4c per pound.
The rice acreage of the United
States has grown from 718,000 acres
in 1912 to 870,000 acres in 1916, an
increase of 78,000 acres this season.
Of the present acreage Louisiana has
more than half, or 446,000 acres, and
I of this latter quantity Southwest Lou.
isiana has the considerable quantity
of 372,000 acres, or about 42 per cent
of the entire acreage of the United
States. It will no doubt be surpising
to some rice producers in this section
to know that the acreage planted to
rice in the Seventh Congressional dis
trict is 34 per cent of the entire acre
age of the United States. The acre
age of rice in the Seventh Congres
sional district is 20 per cent larger
than the entire rice acreage in the
state of Texas, is 2 1-2 times as large
as the acreage in Arkansas, and over
four times as large as the new Call- 1
fornia acreage. c
It is commonly supposed that the
Carolinas are large rice producers,
but it is interesting to know that
there are more acres planted to rice
in the Seventh Congressional district
of Louisiana than the Carolinas pro
duced in bags during her palmiest
days, and the production in th? Caro- I
linas today worild not ,r ake enough
grist to keep a modern rice mill going
but a few days.
What we of this districr are most t
vitelly interested in is thetariff as it r
affects rice, not so much fr,,m tha.
st-1rdpoirnt f prctection wholly, bur f
with the view to conserving the nmdus
try to the cn.! that American labor
and capit l sh ill net be sacrificed,
dealt with tn just!ly, or discriminated
against. Our eyes have been blinded
during the past tv-o years )n the tat- c
iff question -IN: to the great prosper
ity of our section of the country.
At the outbreak of the European war c
the West Indies and South America t
were cut off in a large measure from
the enormous rice suplies of India
and the Orient. Previous to the time 1
American rices were unknown factors
in the rice markets of the world. Dur.
ing the twelve months just ended
southern rice mills have exported
one million bags of rice to foreign
countries. This was only possible on
account of the European war. When
the war is over and commerce is re- c
stored, it will be just as impossible for I
us to enter the foreign trade as it E
was before the days of the European n
war. With the largest acreage in the i
history of the rice business for the t
coming rice season, and prospects r
pointing to peace in Europe in a few s
months or a year at the most, it is I
of the utmost importance that imme- I
diate and intelligent steps betaken to
once more restore the duty on rice to
two cents per pound, for the very r
simple reason that the millions of dol
lars invested in the production of rice I
in Southwest Louisiana, a great part
of which has been invested in very re.
cent years, will shrink in value over
night, when the European war is over,
and even with one cent duty on rice, i
fancy rices from Siam, Japan and t
India can still be sold in the consum- t
ing markets of the United States at c
below the cost of production to the
American farmer. I
Now, when we consider that there !
.re about three hundred thousand'
acres of rice land actually in cultiva
tion in this congressional district;1
when weconsider that there are at 2
least twenty-five million dollars in
vested in rice lands and improvements
necessary and essential to the success
Ful promotion of the rice industry;
when we consider the vast numbers of
people who are dependent upon this
product as a food necessity; the
great number of laborers, aside from
thefarmers themselves, who depend
ipon this industry for their salvation,
.t is my opinion that ayone who
would foster and support legislation
>f any character detrimental to this
7reat industry is not a prope: person
to represent this congressional dis
trict.
If elected to this office I shall not
only work for a restoration of the
'two-cent tariff on rice but shall op
pose and vote against any measure
reducing thetariff below this ratio.
The conditions prevailing for the
past two years throughout the world,
i may say, have enhanced the demand
for this important article of food,
which has enabled the rice producek
to hold his head above water. How
3ver, notwithstanding these favoraule
business conditions, some foreign rice
has been dumped upon the markets
of the United States, and when thees
coditions are changed. which, in my
opinions is an inevitable result within
the near future, the present tariff rate
is positively inadequate to keep out
foreign rice, from Janan and other
countries, produced by cheap laborers,
and after deducting tle cost of pro
duction, etc., should the present one
cent tariff rate prevail it means the
wreck and ruin of this important in
dustry, the loss of millions of dol
lars to farmers, laborers and legiti
mate investors. In fact, the entire
populace, every branch of business,
will suffer serious loss.
In view of the powerful influences
in the eastern states, largely manufac
turing centers, we of this section can
not expect any returns or benefits in
the reduction of the tariff on manu
factured articles to which locality the
rice farmers as well as the remainder
of the citizenship of this district must
look for many necessaries of life. Con
sequently, to maintain the present
tariff rate, or reduce it, would be an
unjust discrimination against this par
ticular industry and against this par
ticular section of the United States
of America, contrary to Article 1, Sec
tion 8, of the Federal Constitution,
reading:
"The Congress shall have power to
lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts
and excises, to pay the debts and pro
vide for the common defense and gen
eral welfare of the United States; but
all duties imposts and excises shall
be uniform throughout the United
States."
The platform of the national dem
ocratic party declares for tariff for
revenue only. In my opinion this
embraces a wide latitude and should
not only apply to the method of obtain
ing sufficient revenues to overate the
government, but applies equally to the
necessity that exists (and which we
should all guard against) in prevent.
ing the stifling of an industry by im
posing an inadequate tariff rate, un
equal, unjust and discriminating
against rice, upon which such a vast
majority of the citizenship, not only
of this district, but of the state of
Louisiana, is largely dependent.
Therefore, congress even in provid
ing a tariff for revenue only clearly
discriminating against the rice indus
try of Louisiana when it imposes an
inadequate tariff rate, and at the same
time leaves the schedule on other ar
ticles protected by a much higher per
centage. To illustrate: a sewing ma.
chine, recognized throughout the civ
ilized world as a household necessity,
under ordinary conditions, can be pur
chased outside of the United States
for less than we must pay within the
states-thesame largely applies to
steel rails and kindred products farm.
ing machinery, to shoes, woolen and
cotton clothing and other articles of
wearing apparel, of commerce, etc.
From personal experiences in Wash
ington, D. C., where I listened to dis
cussions of this important subject
first -hand from information I have
gleaned from many friends and asso
ciates among the rice farmers and rice
men, I was convinced years ago that
any tariff on rice less than two cents
would ultimately prove ruinous to the
rice industry of Louisiana. And with
out attempting to unjustly criticise
our present congressman I do notI
hesitate to say that it appears to me
that by the exercise of due diligence,
the display of energy, and the proper
presentation of this subject, there a
not only no reason why the old rate
of two cents should not have been
maintained, but it could and should be
restored. On thiS basis rice raising
can at least be carried on without a
sacrifice.
If our democratic ex-congressman
2ould accomnplish what he did accom
plish for the rice industry, in spite of
the republican majority odds and op
josition which he necessarily had to
:ontend with, why is it the present in.
'umbent could not do equally as muehb,
inder a democratic House majority,
mnd at least hold what we already
had' ?
I believe that my views are sound
from a legal standpoint as well as re
gards party lines; at any rate, I shall
exert all my ability, energy and in
fluence toward bringing about the de.
sired results.
I may say also that my views as
expressed cocerning rice, are also my
views as regards a tariff on sugar
and lumber.
In conclusion, I beg leave to state
that my associations with the farmers,
the laborers, my experience as a law
yer in protecting the civil rights of
men, and as an official in prohibiting
public wrongs, as well as my knowl.
edge of the benefits derived from the
honest and legitimate transactions of
capital, places me in a position to
know the needs of all classes and be
ever watchful, conscientious and ener
getic in protecting the rights of each
a.nd all.
TWO NEW RURAL ROUTES
ESTABLISHED FROM WELSH
Rural routes numbers two and three
became an actuality on September 1st,
when delivery began on these two
new routes.
Mr. A. J. Benoit has received the
appointment of temporary carrier for
these routes and will carry the mail
on them on alternate days during the
,next sx imonths, pr urktil the
motor route is established, when the
patrons of these routes will receive
their mail daily.
The establishment of these routes is
a boon which the farming community
which they serve should, and does, ap.
preciate. Together with the telephone
and automobile, they are placing the
farmer and the farmer's family on
"easy street."
Their establishment is to us con
crete evidence that the democratic ad
ministration is doing for the people
of the north, but have refused to do
for us, although we shared equally in
the payment for the other people's
conveniences.
These routes, when permanently es
tablished will be under the rules of
the civil service department, exam
inations for which were recently par
ticipated in by fifteen qualified citi
zens of Jefffferson Davis parish, but
confirmation of the successful appli
cant has not yet been received.
TWO COMEDY DRAMAS AT
AUDITORIUM NEXT WEEK
Marguerite Clark will return to
the Auditorium, Wednesday, Sept. 13,
playing the leading role in a screen
production of the popular novel,
"Molly Make-Believe." This is said
to be an unusual photo-play in which
Miss Clark is seen at her best.
"The Red Widow," a comedy full
of humorous incidents, starring John
Barrymore, is the program for Fri
day, Sept. 15th.
The famous spectacle "The Battle
Cry of Peace" is coming Sept. 18th.
war d ma ever filmed.
This big nine-reel production is cred
ited everywhere as being the greatest
QUITE SIGNIFICANT.
When a Welsh young couple plight.
ed their troth while passing close to
a corn field the other day they prob
ably forgot that the corn had ears
and that their little tale would be
spread over a vast area. As proof
of our contention, we cite you to the
numerous well developed ears which
are leanings out over the fences on
every highway in Jefferson Davis
parish-which speak for themselves,
but louder yet they speak for an era
of fame for this section as a corn pro
ducer. Apparently we have at
tempted to add a little local colour to
this tale, but we find, that colour
is entirely absorbed in the golden yel
low of our 1916 corn crop.
PLANTERS" TELEPHONE CO,
IS PROSPEROUS CONCERN
The Journal's job printing depart
ment has just completed the revised
directory for the Plantels' Telephone
company, a glance at which brings Lo
notice some very interesting and sat
isfying facts.
First, it shows that the company has
added to its list some sixty new pa.
trons since the first of January, 1916.
It has increased its scope of terri.
tory in every direction from Welsh
until at the present time the patrons
of this exchange enjoy service very
nearly all over the parish of Jeffer
son Davis. New lines and extensions
have been built in every direction,
including a line to the oil refining
plant that will accommodate ter.
wires, a seven-wire lead to the oi,
field, from oil field to Lacassine and:. A
to Woodlawn; new line from Refinery '.i
to Oden Corner with three wires, re
lieving the old route and giving bet
ter service; extension from Thorn
well to A. G. Smith's farm and ex
tension from Hayes line to Amar Da.
vid's.
The company has very efficient and
obliging operators in its employ at
the exchange, and we take all re
sponsibility for tthe assertion "that
servic ls improved one hundred
per cent since the exchange was tak
en over from the Cumberland.
This home institution, financed ex
clusively by home people should be,
and is, a source of pride to our com.
munity. Its officers are within reach
of the patrons should need or com
plaint arise; its earnings are spent
within the community and help ma.
terially in keeping the wheel of local
industry revolving.
The company has so far been quite
prosperous, and althouigh no dividends
have been declared, the surplus earn.
ings have been invested in equipment
and extensions which add materially
to the income, and are ever increasing
the value of the stock. The Plant
ers' Telephone Company is. one of
the most prosperous and progressive
enterprises of the community.
Good, heavy Ear Corn,
in car lots, subject to In
spection upon delivery.
See R. A. Estes phone 162
Feed Out Your Hoge 6 Weeks Earlier.
In every lot of hogs feed two or
three weeks quickly and actually eat
less than others. If all .would fatten
like these, the entire drove would be '
ready of the market six weeks earlier
and to save six weeks feed is an item
that you fPlly erstand.
The hog that fa hIJ
be in prime physical
B. A. Thomas Hog Powder
ditioner for hogs. It
system clean and heatihy ad
them to fatten quickly
ing a prey to the usuat
hogs. The B. A. Thouia
der is not stock foo. Itl
medicine, and we took tlM
cause it enables you to0
hogs much earlier.-W
house Co.
IMPORTANT NOT1
All school books and
plies will be sold for cash
year, and no exchaniiges wi
This announcement is
that pupils of the asho6
lists of their needs from
fore making purchalssee
Respectfully,. '
JOURNAL B00
-1000 Automobile tw
ery $1.00 due bill, good in at
purchase at the Journal ,o
Welsh Printing Company
Bros. Jewelry.
THE BATTLE CY OF PEA C:
"A Call to Arms Against War"
SAuditoriun W\elsh La.
|*A1 sy. .
I~~` IIIcl-
