V
afmiitgtat
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1916.
NO. 35
VOL. 43
The "Yellow Peril'
Public Schools i FARMINGTON PAGEANT
First Showing
of New
Fall Boots
For Men, Women and Children
We are now showing many of the new fall styles
in footwear. Other shipments are being received
almost daily and we were never in such perfect
condition to take care of your footwear needs to
your entire satisfaction. A cordial invitation is ex
tended to call and inspect the new styles.
KARSCH'S
The Bill That j Edison Says "No
Averted Strike Reason for Change
Following is the text of the bill,
humed through Congress last Friday
and Bturdjr, to avert the pending
strike of the railroad brotherhoods
throughout the country for an eight
hour day and pay for overtime. As j
soon il it was missed the heads of
the brotherhoods called off the strike
Be it enacted by the Senate
ed States of America in Congress
sembleri !
Section 1. That beginning Dec. 1,
101(5, eight 'hours shall, in contracts
for labor and service, be deemed a
day's work and the measure or stand
ard of a day's work for the purpose
of reckoning the compensation for
service of ail employes who arc now
or may hereafter be employed by any
railroad which is subject to the provi
sions of the act of Feb. 1, 1887, 'an
act to regulate commerce' an amend
ed, and who arc now or may here-
The "Yellow Peril" has swooped
down upon The Times in a mogt cold
blooded and heartless fashion, as well
as in a most malignant form, as a
glance at the tone of this week's pa
per will abundantly testify. As news
print paper it is widely removed from
the color scheme that has long been
fashionable among real newspapers.
Of course there are quite a number
of really "yellow" newspaper, but
The Times docs not drill with that
crowd.
However, "a yellow tone of paper,
such as this issue, and such as The
Times will, of necessity, continue to
be printed on for we cannot tell how
long, is not especially trying on the
eyes. In fact it has rather a soothing
effect on the eyes. Then, too, we
promise to keep the reading matter
contained in The Times up to the high
standard it has already fixed for it
self, so that the tone of the paper
may not even be noticed by our read
ers. We will also state that this really
inferior grade of news print paper is
not of our choosing. It is all we could
get, at a very material increase in
price. With newspapers now it is not
"what can I get," but "can I get any,
and you name the price." This cheap
grade of goods, however, costs us
about three times as much as a good
grade of paper formerly cost. In
I other words, the paper we now have
on hand, together with freight, cost
I us in excess of 6 cents per pound,
! while formerly the better grade was
secured for about 2 cents per pound,
i Some rise, don't you think? Anyway
' we do.
The claim is made that one reason
I for this outrageous advance is that
paper is being used in the manufac-
Thomas A. Edison, the great in
ventor, a life-long Republican and a
supporter of Roosevelt, has come out
unequivocally for the re-election of
President Wilson. In a formal state
ment given out last Monday he says:
"Not since I860 has any campaign
made such a direct call on simon-pure , pf munitions, Anyway, the
A mni.in.nini T!in t,r,,l fl VP 1 CO SO-; , 1 I..-41.. r ....--I 1
n,.,l 1 Aim - - alarum! r a;:u iudmuiu', iiiuviiir
r .. . tt u 1 rwua i t.w. ...,, price is hiwuiu us iuh ,JI iiuin ,
House of Representatives Of the Upit-i llUcanism or Democracy. Real JS ' ,urt f..ei the need of issuing
Americanism must drop parties and , g 0 g- CJ to ajj t please keep their
get down to big fundamental prlnci-1 subscriptions paid up or, belter still,
pies. . a little in advar.ee - and we will do our
, "More than any other President m very j,Cst to "weather the storm",
my memory, Wilson has been faced ; wj(,hout raising the price of sobscrip
by a succession or tremendous prob-, lion t( The Time.. But the present
lems, any one of 'Which, decided ins nrice of news print is now utmost con-
: IJ , 1 1 ,;;..,,., .-
wrong way, woutti anvv tiau
trous conse(iuen1?s. ' Wilson's deri
sions so far have not got us into any
101 talis troubjes, nor are they likely
to.
Has Preserved Peace.
"He has iriven us peace witn honor
The Farmington Public Schools
opened on Monday morning with tSl
largest enrollment in its history.
One hundred and sixty-five more stu
dents have already enrolled than did
the first week last year. There is a
large increase in all departments ex
cept in the colored schcol, and-every
department is crowded to its full ca
pacity. The enrollments by buildings is as-follows:
High School building, gwules, 142;
High School department, 130.
North Ward building, 20.r,.
Sout'i Wr.rd building, 228.
Douglas:! school, 64. Total 778.
Tie High School enrollment in 28
greater than last year and much larg
er than ever before. This increase
necessitated the election of a new
High School teacher, and on Tuesday
night the Board of Education met and
elected Hiss Sue Watts. Pupils, pa
trons and teachers are rejoicing be
cause she has returned to work in the
Farnllngtcn High Sc'iool after a va
cation of iwo years. This addition of
a new teacher in that department
makes High School conditions more
favorable than ever before and is in
line with the recommendations of the
State Department of Education for the
past two years. The communitv is
very fortunate to secure Mis3 Watts
again as a tcneher in Ihc Hieh School.
It is a significant fact that Farm
intrton new has more students pur
suing studies above the grades than
she ever had at one lime, even when
both cnllcges and the Seminary were
in operation. Fnrmington's impor
tance a: an educational center is in
creasing in spite of the fact I hat throe
of th" older private schcols have
close 1. ' .
WILL BE GREAT SUCCESS
Perhaps Greatest Event in City's His
tory Will Soon Take Place for Which
Great Preparations Are Being Made
County Court
liseatory, and we
should have, an
wi'l vei V ii'iUch appreciate, a.. t..c ar
(stance our subscribers can render u
in the way of prompt payment c
their subscriptions.
I Con
' pursu
fallow
j rett,
and t
u. c.
i Wait
J.
One of the greatest events in the
entire history of Farmington will be
consummated during the middle of
the nresent month. September 14th.
15th and 16th are the dates that have
been selected for the "Farmington
Pageant." The question of "What Is
a Pageant?" was fully and completely
answored in The Times last week, so
that the purpose of this article will
be to tell what its successful perform
ance will mean at least in a meas
ure to Farmington and St. Francois
county.
Conceding that the truly wonder
ful theme of Farmington's Pageant
is successfully presented which must
be conceded if it were known how much
labor has been expended, under the
direction of geniuses in such work,
and the unstinted expenditure of
money for anything and everything
that promises a more ideal present
ment of the superb work that will be
put on this event will doubtless mean
more for the future growth and de
velopment of Farmington and St.
1' rancois county than any otner event,
in the entire history of the county,
since its organization.
In the first place, it will mean thai
every visitor to this city during the
Paceant period, will be afforded en
tertainment well up to their expec
tations, no matter how high such ex
pectations may be, so long as they
are in the bounds of reason. This
portrayal wi'l not only be educational
and Instructive, but it will also be
edifying and entertaining. Its gran
deur will be such that it will have to
be seen in order to be fully appre
ciated. In the next place, the thousands of
appr
Peri:
after be actually engaged in any ca-H T, to,k , , t!l ijnit,.cl States be
parity in the operation of trams used;
for the transportation of persons or i
property on railroads, from any State1
or T-"-vilory of the United States or
the District of Columbia, to any other1
State or Territory of the United j
States, or from one place in a terri
tory to another place in the same tcr-!
ritory, or from any place in the
United States to an -adjacent foreign
country or from Yiny place in the
United States through a foreign
country to any other place in the
United States.
"Sec. 2. That the President shall
appoint a commission of three, whkh
Bnall observe the operation and oflwls
of the institution of the eight-hour
standard work day, as above defined
and the facts and conditions affecting
the relations between such common
carriers and employers during a peri
od of not less than six months nor
more than nine manths, in the dis
cretion of the commission and within
30 days thereafter such commission
Utg despised is nonsenee. Neutrality
is a mighty trying policy, but back oJ
it are internatiaaaVisrtv, the ri
humanity, and las future of eivilista
lion.
"With reference to Mexico, 1 think
that the President has. acted wisely,
justly and cou:agcously. It was right,
that the United Stata should not
have recognized such a murderous
personality as Huerta. I do not be
lieve that we should have intervened,
Bor do I believe 'that we should inter
vene iow. Mexico is a trouuicsomc
neighbor just now, but war and con
quest are not going to make tier a
better one. - Both against England
and against human slavery the Unit
ed States worked out its salvation
through" revolution, and it was a pret
tv slow, trying process.
"It has been raid that Wilson at
first was against preparedness. Per
haps he was, but when convinced that
intelligent public opinion was over
whelmingly in favor of it he changed.
Too Much Speeding
D.
Wig!
$20;
' port
Wm: GicKshv' Robert Ktihn and vie'n i
W. L. .: -'ton:: -it .business f,-A..ivor, Jgpporl CI poor lj mm , u.
tmefr at fioslc-ge, were In FnrrningTon FJnl River and vicinity. $--; Mrs.
list Tuesday to ask the County Court! OttQ Skaggs, support of poor persons
' if something could be dene to stop at Desloge and vicinity, $2o; C. I.
I flip fnsrt Hi-ivine- of automobiles Garrett one day's services as hoard
:ty Court met last Tuesday
int to adjournment with the
inn officers nresent: C. 1. Oar-
Presiding Judge U. S. Watts
!has. P. Hale. Associate Judges;
Williams, Sheriff, and Albert
it. Clerk.
W. Hopkins filed, settlement OI visitors that are confidently expected
(ivi.ition fie.- improvement of to be here on this gala occasion must
e road, which was approved. i bit profoundly impressed, not Only
Warrants Issued. with the Pageant, but with everything
S. McClar.hon, support I.aPlanl,! in our splendid, dUStlcSS city of heau
in's, Taylor and Harrington, j tiful homi l and hospitable people.
Robert Bo sw ell, treasurer, sup-j The favorable impressions that they
poor persons in Farmington and Will doubtless carry away with them
7., r ... . II n
V. !3iU: IVtrs. r. lu. jiui vuu. i . :u r..,?.: ,,..1,1
endless chain, which
the utt
occasion for even an extra effort on
the part of our people; every effort
must be exerted to give all visitors
the best time possible while in this
city, in order that they will be forced
to carry away with them the pleas
antest possible memories, which wHl
cause them to commend this excep
tional city to their friends, and which
will continue to linger in their mem
ory, and possibly bring them back at
some later date as residents of Farm
ington. While there was nothing ulterior
in the roinds of the originators of the
"Farmington Pageant", this occasion
can be made to serve as the best pos
sible vehicle in carrying the beauties,
resources and opportunities of Farm
ington and St. Francois county to the
outside world, where arc countless
thousands of people who are looking
for just such opportunities as can be
found in abundance here. And of
these countless thousands, a very
large percentage would be most de
sirable citizens, who would bring
money, intelligence and industry, to
make happy homes in this city and
county filled with happy homes.
It is estimated by conservative
business men, that tliere will ne irom
3,000 to fi.OOO visitors drawn to this
city by the Pageant, and it should be
the aim and effort of every citizen that
all who come will carrv away with
them nothing but agreeable and pleas
ant recollections of their visit here.
If this splendid -detail can be worked
out, (and it will not bo so difficult of
accomplishment in Farmington), then
Indeed will the Pageant have been a
glorious success worth to this com-
!,.. fin.,... .,. .!'... 11 nmu
nave cost, lor it win Bianu as a hviuk,
breathing monument to the fairest
and finest little home city the writer
has ever known.
All citizens of Farmirgton should
hold themselves in readiness to en
tertain all visitors to the Pageant, ev
en to a greater extent than is normal
with our hospitable people. Everyone
sriod mui
shall report its findings to the Pros- That is the propcr thing for our Pres
ident and Congress. That each mem
her of the commission created under
the provisions of this act shall re
ceive such compensation as may be
fixed by the President. The sum of
$25,000 or so much thereof as may be
necessary he and hereby is appropri
ated out of any money in the United
State3 Treasury not othe'rwisc appro
priated, to be immediately available
and to continue available until the
close of the fiscal year ending June
30, 1917, for the necessary and proper
expenses incurred in connection with
the work of such commission, includ
ing salaries, per diem, traveling ex
penses of members and employes and
rent, furniture, office fixtures and sup
plies, books and other necessary ex
penses, the same to be approved by
the chairman of said commission and
audited by the proper accounting of
ficers of the treasury.
Section 3. That pending the report
of the commission herein provided
for, and for a period of 30 days there
after, the compensation of railway
employes subject to this act for a
standard eight-hour workday shall
not be reduced below the present stan
dard day's wage, and for all necessary
time in excess of eight hours such
employes shall be paid at a rate not
less than the prorata rate for such
standard eight-hour workday.
Section 4. That any person violat
ing any provision of this act shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fined not less than
S100 and not more than $1,000, or
mprisoned not to exceed one year, or
;oth.
$100,000 Deal
-A. P. Mackley, Cashier of the Des
iOg Bank, representing several St.
F rancois county investors, has just :
returned from the Oklahoma mineral ,
fields near Miami, ai'ter closing a deal
for 40 acres of rich mineral land, with 1
one shaft down and fine ore dumped
on the ground and plenty more in
fight. The 40 acres adjoins the min
eral property of Watson, Marbury,,
Smith and Graves. The price paid is
in the neighborhood of $100,000.
idents to do. A' President defiant of
public opinion would be a dangerous
man in our system of government.
"His attitude on the tariff shows an
equal openness of mind. A Tariff
Commission will take the whole prob
lem out of politics. It is my hope that
experts will be named and that the
body will be continuing and vested al
most with the dignity of the Supreme
Court.
"They say he has blundered. Per
haps he has. But I notice that he un
usually blunders forward. You can't
get 100 per cent efficiency in a democ
racy. I don't know that, we ought to
want it. We would bo machines and
we would have to sacrifice too much
of freedom.
Opposes Change.
"As I said at the start, it has been
just one big thing after another with
Wilson. I have never known so many
dangerous questions brought up for
decision to any one President. Now
he has the gencraf strike of the skill
ed railway employes. He is acting
with his usual courage and sanity. In
my opinion Mr. Hughes, if President,
would find it difficult to decide on the
best course for the government to take
in this strike. His capacity for hind
sight, as we learn from his speeches,
is highly developed, but as to his fore
sight we are not equally informed.
"Mr. Wilson has now had aboutj
four years of expedience, and he has
earned faith and trust. 1 do not think
it a logical or sensible thing to change
to an inexperienced and untried man
just for the sake of change, or with
out much better reasons being given
for the change than I have noticed.
"Roosevelt was my choice. He has
had experience, and is one of the best
of Americans, but the Machine-controlled
Republican party would not
have him. Therefore, I am for Wood
row Wilson."
throueh their town. They say that
. come ncopje drive their machines
j through there at a reckless speed of
! 89 miles an hour or more. There, is
' too much joy riding in the county, not
! o:ilv through towns but along the
highways, far exceeding the speed al
I lowed by Stale law. If the officers
cannot get them and of course the
I few constables over the county can-t
I not be expected to see all that is go-
! ii g on it might bo a good idea for
I the citizens of our unincorporated
towns to watch out for these speed
oiB, take the number of their ma
chines and report them to the Pros
ecuting Attorney and have them ar
rested. A few arrests and fines to
fit the cases might have a wholesome
effect.
Trio of Picnics
A trio of picnics were held on Mon
day Labor Day at Bonne Terre,
Desloge and Elvins, each of which
was largely attended by people from
all over this and adjoining counties.
The gathering at Desloge was under
tiie uuspiccs of the St. Francois Coun
ty I. O. O. F. Assn,, while the other
two gatherings were just good old
fashioned picnics, each of which was
abundantly enjoyable.
The train service on the M. R. &
II. T. between these different points
was crowded far beyond capacity, even'
standing room being at a premium
throughout the day. Yet there was
very little seeming effort made to ac
commodate the vast crowds thatNex
perience should have denl0nstrated
would be traveling that day. No ex-
i tra trains were run, for which there
! was much -apparent need, and if any
I extra coaches were carried, they were
I crowded far beyond capacity. But
i "cijowded for space" has long since
' tome to be looked on as the regular
thing throughout the Lead Belt, and
the day brought forth its usual pleas
ures and enjoyments.
oualization. C6: U. S. Watts, same,
?."; Chas. 1'. Hale, same, $"; Thos. 11.
Ili lman, same, $6; Lawrence O.
Wells, sain ', I 5l State Industrial
li nife for Cirls, county inmates. 121);
J. Clyde Akers, County School Super
intendent, postage, $7.82; J. S. Jar
nagin, subscription and appropriation
fur improvement of .larrctt road,
$134) Geo. Herzog & Son, -shoes for
jail prisoners, $2. HO; Schramm 15. & I.
Mfg. Co., ice for Court House, $n;
Ml! Vernon Sanitorium, support coun
ty patients, $22.41; J. C. Williams,
boarding prisoners, $87.50; Farming
Ion Times, stationery for Assessor,
$21; Dr. F. M. Braning, services for
jail inmates. $20.75; Pelty's Book
Store, supplies for offices, $2.35; G.
F Heizinger, school fund loan, $050;
Lead Belt News, publishing primary
tickets, $104; W. L. Eaton, ball rent
foi' primary election, $3; Farmington
News, stationery for Court House of
fices, $12; Klein Grocer Co., jail sup
plies, $4.00.
The Court granted a license rate of
$10 dollars per day for a term of six
days to the Stanley Stock Company
to show in St. Francois county under
one tent only.
The Collector was directed to return
as erroneous $90 each on assessment
of Jake Hartman of lots 1 and 2,
block 8, Cherryville. for years 1910 to
liUfj assessment should be $10 on
each. Also to return as erroneous
$150 on assessment of personal pro
perty of Geo. Douglas, Randolph town
ship, for year 1913.
Geo. F. Herzinger presented receipt
showing payment in full of school
fund mortgage, and the Clerk was di
rected to enter satisfaction on margin
of record; and Mr. Heizinger borrowed
$950 of the capital fund of the county
school fund on legal security.
Itailroad, Telegraph and Telephone
Values Fixed.
Land-Marks Unique Sound Shell
Unearthed for Pageant Concert
In digging an excavation adjacent
to the pavement, on the north side of
Steve Counts' second-hand furniture
and automobile supply establishment,
on Liberty street, to sink a gasoline,
tank, the workmen came upon three
large oak logs, or tree trunks, about
five feet below the surface. They
were not hewetl logs, but looked
if they might have been the tiunks of
large trees lying as they had been
felled, parallel to each other. Two of
them measured between twelve and
fourteen inches in diameter. They
werajdmost perfectly preserved and
were solid clear tnmugn, as ine
Among the enjoyable features of
the pageant week in Farmington the
Concert, to be given under the direc
tion of E. C. Battoll on Friday night,
Sept. 15th, at the Pageant grounds,
stands out conspicuously as a notable
even!, it was feared at first that a
concert eriven out in the open, virtu-
as ally in a forest, would not sound well,
so a clever contrivance has oeen orig
inated by Mr. Barroll which assure :
the volume of the music and each per
son hearing all of it.
This is a "sound shell," consisting
of a platform 30 feet wide and 18 feet
di-'-i). eluv.itrd uiiee left Itotti me
workmen found in chopping through j gr0und. At the rear is a specially
them to finish the excavation.
There is considerable speculation as
to how long they hail been there, how
they came to be imbedded at that
place, and how the ground came to be
filled, So deeply over them. There
used to be a log house standing at
that turner, but these logs were too
large to have been used in its con
struction, and besides there are a
number of our people living who re
member the old log building, which
we believe was burned, and the street
was then on about the same level as
it is now. It looks as if, even prior
to the election of the old log building,
the trees must have been felled ami
allowed to lie there, and that after
wards the ground was filled up.
One remarkable thing is that after
lying there for no telling how many
years, the wood is in such perfect
preservation, solid and as hard as oak
ever get3 to be. Perhaps some of our
oldest citizens may be able to explain
how the logs come to be there. The
brick building now standing on that
PAGEANT TICKETS
Season tickets for adults $1.00;
eeen tickets for children under 14,
sate; atagle admission, adults 50
at stag! admission, child 25 cents.
and telephone property in the covnt
was fixed as follows for taxation:
Southwestern Telegraph and Tele
phone Co., $05,707; Kinloch Long Dis
tance Telephone Co., $945; Farmington
Telephone Co., $11,100; Cape Girar
deau Telenhone Co., $300; Bellevue
I Rural Telephone Co., $94;"Avon Tel
n Wwtnoa.lav nio-tit nf Inst rpek t'tihone Co.. S180: Western Union Tel-
the hardware store of Hugh Steel at egraph Co., $17,186.25; Illinois South
Bismarck, was broken into and some en Telegraph Co., $887.22; Cape Gi-e-oods
stolen, the thieves making their rardeau and Northern Railway, $33,-
Doss Gets Two More
nUulntinn of railroad, telesrranh I corner, the northwest corner of the
runne nquare, is owned ny anerin j.
C. Williams, and was at one time
owned and occupied as a store by
former County Judge John A. Sprott.
Let us arouse Farmington, keep her
aroused, and make her shine forth for
what she real'" ;3 he b?'t little r-s-ldftico
eit-y in ine United States.
For Sale
One new huckster wagon, built pur
posely for the business. Come and see
it, at ISKNMAN & CO. ,
get-away. Deputy Sheriff Sam Doss
was put on the trail of the robbers, re
sulting in their arrest in St. Louis
Saturday night while in a pawn shop
trying to dispose of some stolen pro
perty. The arrests were made on in
formation and description that had
been sent out by Doss.
Doss went to St. Louis to take
charge of the prisoners, but on ar
riving there it was found that the
prisoners had but recently escaped
from the Arkansas penitentiary, and
that there was it reward offered for
them by that State. They were there
fore held in St. Louis for the arrival
of Arkansas officers. The detectives
who made the arrests assured Doss
that he would come in for a fair share
of the reward to which he is entitled.
660: Illinois Southern Railway, $141
298; Lead Belt Railway, $39,114; Mis
sissippi River & Bonne Terre, $558,
595; M. R. & B. T. Hoffman Branch,
$100,800; St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Railwav. $3011.138: St. L. I.
M. & S. Belmont Branch, $232,725; St. . Souirc Good for wife abandonment
! rancois County (electric $69,100. and was fined $50. In default of pay-
mcnt he was committed to jail.
HULL SKIPS AGAIN
O. W. Hull and Sam Yarbrough,
under jail sentences, while at work
in the jail yard yesterday afternoon,
made their escape. Hull, who is in
for "bootlegging," took "French
leave" once before. He was to have
been paroled to-morrow by Judge
Huck. A life sentence, it seems, would
be a more suitable reward for such
rascality as this. Yarbrough was
convicted yesterday morning before
constructed sounding board, flanked on
each side by diagonal "wings" as re
flectors, 10 feet in length, and form
ing a background from which the mu
sic will be thrown directly toward the
audience. A specially constructed
roof. 10 feet hitrh at the rear and 18
at the front, completes a structure ap
proximating in acoustic qualities an
enormous graphaphone horn, with the
players and singers located at its
small end. Thus everything that is
played or sung will be many times
amplified, with the result that tiie au
dience should be able to hear every
word and note to best advantage.
The sound shell will be located just.
15 feet from the first seat, while the
rearmost seat will not be more than
40 or 50 feet from the sound shell. In
this way every auditor is sure of be
ing able to hear and enjoy the whole
of the concert, and as 5,000 seats are
being provided, besides ample park
ing space for automobiles, it is hoped
the crowd in attendance upon that,
night may be a record breaker. Sin
gle admission tickets for the concert
may be obtained at the gate, at 50c,
but it is a much better plan for ev
erybody to secure the season ticket,
now on snley which admits to each of
the periormances on ine inree mgnis,
and costs only $1.00.
Great Bargain
220 acres 7 miles east of Ironton;
1 50 acres good land, 65 in cultivation,
of which 40 acres is rich bottom land.
Good five-room house and other im
provements. Good orchard. Will sell
for $1,400 if sold in next 10 days.
Apply to Pipkin & Story.
Farmington, Mo.
Still Coming !
The following new subscribers have
been received at The Times office the
past week: Father J. R. Morgan. Mrs.
O- tha Davis and Jacob Day of Farm
ington; P. S. Cole of Valparaiso, Ind.,
aad J. t. Marshall ot Knot) Ucit.
Splendid Opening
The Ozark Business Colleges of this
city. Flat River and Bismarck open
ed Tuesday for the 1916-17 term, and
we are informed that the attendance
at each of these schools is surpris
ingly large. The Farmington College
had 40 pupits 09 the opening day,
which is almost double the amount of
any preceding opening.
in viewif the fact that the man
agement of these colleges have ad
vanced SB tuition, such increase in at
tendance is a splendid compliment to
the thoroughness and efficiency of
these schools.
Gasoilne has been reduced in Faim
intrton from 25 cents to 20 cents a
gallon, which will be a jcnsiderabla
saving to automobile owners.
