THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 149.
I3AHRK, VERMONT, FRIDAY, SEITKMREll 8, 1916.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
HURL INFANTRY
AGAINST LINES
ON TWO POINTS
Germans Make Frenzied Eft
forts to Regain Ground
Lot Between Berny and
Chaulnes South of the
Somme, and French Held
Their Gains Everywhere
ALSO TRY TO REGAIN
ON VERDUN FRONT
ENTHUSIASTICALLY RECEIVED.
Here, as at the Other Place,
the Attack Was Unsuc
cessful, According to the
Official Statement Issued
at Paris To-day Intense
Bombardment Preceded
Assaults
Paris. Sept. S. Renewed and particu
larly violent attacks were made by the
Germans on the Somme front last night j jpiy d,,plore, in the 11
in an effort to regain the ground which jj,, ,,,,, mme (lf jllJiti0P) in
vas won Dv tiic rrencn. me vr unu-c
announced to-day, hut the German as
saults were futile, the French holding
tlieir ground everywhere. The fiennan
attacks were made in strong force on
the front between Horny "and Chaulnea,
south of the Somme, and the lighting
wat especially heavy between Ycrman
doviller and Chaulnes. The Germain
preceded their infantry assaults with in
tense bombardments.
The (ioniums also made an effort to
regain the ground won yesterday by the
French on the Verdun front between the
Yaux-Chnpitre wood and the Chenois,
where nearly a mile of German first
line position were carried. The official
report savs that the German onslaughts
v ere unsuccessful.
Hughe Civen Great Reception By
Mains Crowd.
Portland, Me , Sept. 8 Charles K.
Hughe told a New England audience
yeterdy that lie would rather stand for
the principle of reason in legislation
and go down to defeat than to yield
"one jot or tittle" of it and become pre
ident of the Tinted State.
Before live crowded audience in Mas
sachusetts, New Hampshire and Maine
the nominee assailed the administration
vigorously for the enactment of the Ad-
anison piht hour law. lie called it "riot
an eight hour law, but a wage law";
aid that it v passed confessedly in
ignorance of the facta, asserted that
while it had been said ill it favor that
society favored the eight hour day, o-
eiety had nothing to do with the meas
ure, and declared emphatically that "that
kind of virus in our life" wuld bring the
nation to disaster in the end.
Mr. Hughes' first appearance in New
England wan marked by cheering crowds,
packed houses from which many were
turned uwav, street demonstrations and,
here in Cortland last night, bv an old-
fashioned torchlight parade. Much of
the day wag spent in motor earn and the
nominee reached this city, travel-stained
and wearv, to face an audience in the
tit v hall auditorium.
Arriving at the auditorium, Mr.
Hughe spoke from the platform where
Raymond Robins, chairman or the I ro
gressive national convention at Chicago,
had just told the audience why he was
no longer 11 Democrat or a Progressive
and why he supported the Republican
ticket. Previously, the nominee had spok
en at Beverly. Mass., Hampton Beach
and Portsmouth, X. H., and York Har
bor, Me. In each address he assailed the
administration for the enactment of the
Adamson law.
''It is because I am so solicitous," he
told an audience in the town house yard
at York Harbor, "with respect to the
progress to be made in industrial eo- I
operation and advancement of labor that
name of labor,
the name of
American ideals, the surrender of the
executive and Congress to force, instead
of permitting reason to reign.
"There is one. thing, however, which we
must alwavs maintain and that is that
CONGRESS ENDS
LONG SESSION
AMID DISPUTE
Democrats Point to a Long
Series of Legislative En
actment, Including the Na
tional Defense Program
Calling for $600,000,000
Appropriation
SESSION WASTEFUL,
SAY REPUBLICANS
Just Before Adjournment,
Both Houses Accepted the
Conference Report on the
Emergency Revenue Bill,
and Senate Ratified the
Danish West Indies Pur
chase Treaty
Washington, I). C, Sept. 8. Only a
email proportion of the members of Con
gress were on hand to day to watch the
first session of the 61th Congress, which
began last IVeenibcr, die. Most had hur
ried to tlieir homes after the late sessions
last night or jven days before; and a
month after the political campaign closes
in November they must return for a
there shall be no action on the part of short session.
our elected representatives, no action E"st night both houses accepted the
whatever, taken under pressure and un
BRITISH REVERT
TO TRENCH RAIDING
According to Official Statement Issued in
London, They Inflicted Severe
Losses on the Occupants..
London, Sept. 8. British troops south
'west of Lille last night raided German
trenches southwest of Ginehy, inflicting
severe losses on the occupants, the Brit
ish official statement to-day says.
THREE PORTS SURRENDERED.
British Continue to Make Gains in Ger
man East Africa.
London, Sept. 8. The ports of Kilwa
Kivmie and Kilwa Ivisi want, in German
East Africa, respectively 150 and 175
miles south of Dar-Es-Salaam, have sur
rendered to the British under threat of a
bombardment, according to an official
statement issued last night giving details
of the recent surrender of Dar-Es-Sa-laam.
The statement says:
"At dawn of the third of September a
naval attack by British forces in What
ers in conjunction with a heavy bombard
ment of enemy positions north of the
town from the direction of Bagamojo
was followed by the landing at Konduchi
and in Msassani bay. The enemy evac
uated Dar-Es-Salaam, which was occu
pied by combined naval and military
forces, the British colors being hoisted
with full honors. The town, except for
the portions occupied by the German
troops, was virtually undamaged.
"On the 7th British naval forces and
marines with military landing parties
occupied the ports of Kilwa Kivinie and
Kilwa kisi Warn, which surrendered un
der threat of a naval bombardment."
iter dictation hetore we know wnat tn
facts are and what justice requires.
"I would rather stand with that prin
ciple and be defeated than yield one
jot or tittle of it to get into oflice."
In his speech last night Mr. Hughes
reiterated this declaration and added that
when a fundamental principle such as
"the reign of reason" was involved there
was only one thing to do and that was
to "stop right there until fundamental
principle is again established."
In addition to his attack on the admin
istration in connection with the passage
of the Adamson law, Mr. Hughes reiter
ated his stand on the tariff, efficiency of
government, the merit system, protec
tion of American rights and other is
sues of the campaign. -
"ABSOLUTELY JUST"
Is Fairbanks' Characterization of Charles
E. Hughes.
Kittery, Me., Sept. 8. Charles AY.
Fairbanks, Republican candidate for vice
president, in an address here last night
urged the election of Republican candi
dates in order to restore the protective
tariff and guard against a European in
dustrial invasion alter the war.
Mr. Fairbanks' only reference to Presi
dent Wilson was criticism for repudiat
ing the one-term plank in the Baltimore
platform.
"One term of a Democratic adminis
tration is one too many," he said.
The speaker characterized the coun
try's present depression in Maine during
the summer of 1014 and predicted sim
lar conditions after the war, unless the
Underwood tariff was repealed and more
stringent protective measures were sub
stituted.
Mr. Fairbanks described Mr. Hughes,
the Republican nominee for president, as
a man who was "absolutely just" and
one who could be. depended upon to
think first and act afterward and not
'act first and think afterward," as he
claimed the Democratic, administration
had during its four years in power.
BIG OFFENSIVE
NOW UNDER WAY
BY THE RUSSIANS
Bulgarian and German Front Under At
tack From the Danube to the Black
Sea, Says Despatch Received
.in Rome.
London, Sept. 8. The beginning of a
great battle in southeastern Rumania,
where the Russians have taken the offen
sive against the Bulgarians and the Ger
mans, is reported in a Rome despatch
given out bv the Wireless ' Press. The
CENTRAL POWERS WIN.
Captured Rumanian Fortress and Three
Seaports.
London, Sept. 8. An undated Bulga
rian official report received to-day says
that Bulgarian and German forces invad
ing eastern Rumania have captured the
fortress of Dobric and three seaports.
The occupation of Orsova by the Ruma
nians was conceded in the statement.
FIGHTING IN MACEDONIA.
Violent Artillery Exchanges Are Taking
Place.
Paris, Sept. 8. Yiolent artillery fight
ing is under way on the front in Greek
Macedonia, the war office announced to
day. The principal engagements are inimitted the controversy to Congress, rec-
conference report on the emergency rev
enue bill and the Senate ratified the Dan
ish West Indies purchase treaty and the
deficiency appropriation bill was also ap
proved. To-day's session was necessitat
ed only by the need of time to reprint
the measure in proper form for signa
ture. In the closing addresses, while await
ing the arrival of President Wilson, ref
erences to the long program of legislative
achievement, dominated chiefly
tional defense preparations at a
more than $600,000,000, were made. The
Democrats lauded the record of the ses
sion and commended it to the country,
while the Republicans alleged waste and
extravagance in spit of the appropria
tions for defense.
The two houses adjourned sine die at
0:5!) a. m.
When the gavel fell Congress had di
rected reorganization and re-equipment
of the army and navy for defense of the
country Rt the unprecedented cost of
$655,000,000, with authorizations that
will increase the total in three years to
nearly $S00,0OO,000. With all other ex
penditures, appropriations were brought
to the grand total of $1,637,583,6X2, the
greatest aggregate in the country's his
tory and exceeding that for the last fis
cal 'year by more than $500,000,000.
Expenditures necessitated by prepared
ness and the calling into action of mili
tary forces to meet the Mexican emer
gency demanded revenue legislation in
the closing days of the session. Congress
responded by doubling the normal tax on
incomes, creating an inheritance tax, mu
nitions tax and miscellaneous excise
taxes to raise $205,000,000 and by direct
ing fmle of $130,000,000 Panama canal
bonds.
Congress established a tariff commis
sion; a government shipping board to re
habilitate the American merchant ma
rine; a workmen's compensation commis
sion to administer a new uniform com
pensation law; a farm loan banking sys
tem; a child labor law; enlarged the sys
tem of self-government in the Philip
pines and enacted many other Important
laws which had been contemplated by the
administration.
The session was disturbed throughout
by frequently recurring threats of for
eign complications from the European
war and imminence at one time of a
diplomatic break with Germany; inter
ference with American mails and com
merce, invasion ot American soil and
killing of Americans by Mexican bandits,
and danger of actual war with Mexico.
Later in the session trouble arose in
the Senate over the nomination of Louis
D. Brandeis of Boston to succeed the late
Justice Lamar as a member of the su
preme court. Weeks of investigation
and deliberation by the judiciary com
mittee ended in confirmation of Mr.
Brandeis by a large majority.
In the week before adjournment Con
gress was occupied with legislation which
prevented a threatened nation-wide rail
road strike. President Wilson after fu
tile negotiations with officials of the
railroads and railroad brotherhoods, Bub-
ing uniform sick and accident benefit
tor employes of the federal government
and benefit to dependent in case of
death.
Emergency revenue laws Providing for
doubling the normal income tax on the
lowest class; making an additional surtax
ranging from I per cent on that portion
of incomes exceeding $20,000 to 13 per
cent on amount of income in excess of
J'i.OOO.ooO; levying a graduated tax of 1
to 10 per cent on inheritances ranging
from $50,000 to $o,ooo,oiO; a 10 per cent
net profit tax on manufacturers of mu
nitions, a per cent net profit tax on man
ufacturers of material entering into mil
litmus; a license tax on actually invest
ed capital stock of corporations capital
ized at more than $110,000; wine, beer and
liquor exi'ise taxes and miscellaneous
stamp taxes.
Good road law: Providing for co
operative federal aid to the states for
construction of highways, and appropria
ting $75,000,000 to be spent in five years.
Postal savings law; Amendment in
creasing the amount which individuals
may deposit from $.500 to $1,(W1 with in
terest and an additional $1,000 without
interest.
Federal reserve: Amendments, includ-'
ing amendment to the Clayton anti-trust
law permitting officer and director of
member bank to become officers and di
rector of not more than two other non
competing banks; amendment permit
ting national banks to establish foreign
branches, liberalizing regulations for di
counting 'ominercial paper and permit
ting member banks in towns of S.ooo or
less population to act as agents for in
suranee companies.
Railroad legislation: Creation of l
joint sub committee of Senate and House
interstate commerce committees to in
vestigate necessity for further legisla
tion for railroads and the interstate com
merce commission, question of govern
ment ownership of public utilities and
comparative worth of government own
ership as against government regulation.
fariff: Creation of a non-partisan tar
iff commission of five members to inves
tigate and advise Congress on tariff re
vision; repeal of the free sugar provision
of existing tariff law; amendments in
creasing duties on dyestuffs to encourage
manufacturing dyestuffs in the I nited
States; enactment of an anti dumping
provision to prevent dumping of foreign
made goods at less than foreign market
prices; authorization for the president
to retaliate against foreign nations pro
hibiting importation of goods from the
I'nited States by laying an embargo
against imports from offending nations.
Cotton futures act: Providing a pro
hibitive tax on cotton sold for future de
livery in fictitious or wash sales.
Philippines: I .aw to provide for a more
autonomous government of the islands,
enlarging self-government, reorganizing
election laws, establishing an elective
Senate and promising independence when-
by na-i ever, in the judgment of the t'nited
cost of States, the Philippine people demonstrate
capability for it.
Railroad eight-hour day law: Estab
lishing eight hours as the standard for
reckoning the compensation of railroad
employes operating trains in interstate
commerce after Jan. 1. 1017, and provid
ing for a commission of three to investi
gate the effects of the eight-hour stand
ard, present wages not to be reduced dur
ing the investigation, nor for 30 days
thereafter, and work in excess of eight
hours to be paid for at a pro rata rate
SOMEWORKERS
OPPOSE STRIKE
And Subway and Elevated
Cars Are Running Al
most Normally
SHONTS DECLARES
STRIKE IS BROKEN
Officials of Union Say They
Will Fight to the
Bitter End
DANISH TREATY RATIFIED.
progress on the Struma front in the re-
TWO BRITISH MACHINES LOST.
But Official Statement Declares Squadron
Did Much Damage.
London. Sept. 8. The British official
communication issued shortly before
midnight ey:
"Yesterday our air machines bombed
an important railway junction on the
of Lake Doiran.
struggle is now under way over the whole !gion of Mount Beles and in the vicinity
front in Dobrudja between the Danube
and the Black sea, and the fighting is
particularly desperate near Baltjik on
the Black sea coast, about 10 miles north
of the Bulgarian frontier. This infor
mation. the despatch says, was received
in Rome from Fetrograd.
ATTACKED REPEATEDLY.
But Russians Succeeded in Holding Their
Positions.
retrograd, via London, Sept. 8. Rus
sian troops which haTe crossed the Dvina
river north of Dvinsk were attacked re
peatedly by the Germans yesterday, the
war office announces, but succeeded in
holding the captured positions.
The
Mica in 1915.
quantity of sheet
mica, rough
enemy s lines, causing great damage to inmmea ana cut. produced in the I nit
be station and rolling st'vk. One of the ed States in 1!15 is smaller than that for
enemy's aerodrome was bombed. One any of the twelve preceding rear but
machine was destroyed on the ground jthe value of the product ia the highest
and other damj?e was d-ne. Many other
point of military importance were
bombed. Sme good work was done
from low altitudes in locating position
rcncbe.1 by our troops.
"Three hostile machine were wrecked
and four others driven out in a damaged
condition. Two of our machines are
ever recorded. Statistics collected by
the I'nited State geological aurvey. de
ommending legislation to avert the strike
and to prevent such emergencies from
arising in the future.
After a week of consideration, during
which the president visited the capitol
daily, conferring with administration
leaders, a bill wa passed to establish an
eight-hour day as basis for pay of
railroad workers, the present rate of pay
for 10 hours' work not to be reduced and
the men to receive pro rata pay for work
in excess of eight hours, pending an in
vestigation by a speHal commission into
the effect of the eight hour day on rail
road revenue.
Most important legialative enactment
of the session, exclusive of law for na
tional defense, included the following:
Government ship law: Appropriating
$50,000,000 to operate ship in foreign
and coastwise trade when unable to lease
them to individuals or private corpora
tion. Child labor lawi Denying interstate
commerce to product of mines and qur- j
ries employing children undr 19 year
Less Than Half a Doren Senators Voted
Against Treaty.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 8 The treaty
providing for the purchase from Den
mark of the Danish West Indies for $25,-
000,000 was ratified by the Senate last
night. There was no roll call and less
than halt a dozen senators, including
Senators Norris, Jones and Clapp voted
against it.
The vote followed several hours of de
bate in executive session while the Sen
ate was waiting for the conference re
port on the emergency revenue bill, thu
only obstacle to adjournment of Con
gress. An amendment by Senator Xorri to
reduce the purchase price from $25,000,
000 to $10,000,000 was defeated by an
overwhelming vote, and the treaty was
approved just as it was signed by Sec
retary Lansing and Minister Brun in
Xew York, August 4.
I'nder the terms of the treaty Den
mark would sell to the I'nited States th
islands of St. Thomas, St. John and M.
Croix, together with adjacent islands and
rocks and Including the right of prop
erty in all public, government or crown
lands, public buildings, etc.
Denmark would guarantee cession of
the islands to be free and unencum
bered except for certain franchises and
concessions which the United States
agrees to maintain.
The treaty sets forth that the pur
chase price shall be paid to the Danish
representative in Washington in gold
coin of the I'nited States within ninety
davs from the date of the exchange of
ratifications. There are the usual pro
visions to safeguard the personal and
property rights of Danish subjects re
siding in the islands.
Xew York, Sept. 8. Subway and ele
vated transportation line on Manhattan
land are being operated on what offi
cial of the Jntcrboroui'h Rapid
Transit company say are virtually nor
mal schedules, although it wa admitted
that service on the surface line of the
Xew York Railways' company wa se
riously affected by the traction strike
called Wednesday night.
Officials of the Amalgamated Asso
ciation of Street ami Electric Railway
Employes, who are conducting the strike,
conceded that schedules on the subway
nd elevated lines were not seriously
hampered, but reiterated their deter
mination to fight to the end. They an
nounced that widespread efforts would
be made to induce strike-breakers and
employes who have remained loyl to
the company to quit their post.
Theodore P. Shonts, president of the
Intcrboroiigh, issued a statement in
which he said the strike was a failure.
If police protection continued as good
as it had been throughout the day, he
asserted, the city was assured of normal
transportation facilities.
Several arrests were made during the
day. Disorder which occurred in va
rious parts of the city, however, result
ed in only minor injuries to a few per
sons, according to police report.
William B. Fitzgerald, organizer of the
Amalgamated association, and Frank
Hedley, general manager of the Inter
borough, testified at a hearing before
the public service commission. The or
ganizer expressed readiness to call a
meeting of the workers to learn wheth
er they would accept the commission's
ruling on the fairness of the so-called
"master and servant" contracts, which
union leader say precipitated the strike.
Attorney for the Interborough, however,
declared that the company would no
abrogate the contract in -any event.
Employes of the Third avenue Rail
way company, at two separate meetings
last night, voted against any strike, for
the present, on that company's lines.
Three hundred union employes of th
I nited States Railways company, whi
expressing readiness to go on a sympa
thetic strike, voted to postpone action,
USED DEATH-DEALING PARACHUTE
Young Man Made Drop with Equipment
Which Caused Libbey'a Death.
Rutland, Sept. 8. After brief instruc
tion from T. II. Flower, brother-in-law
of Samuel A. LibVy, who wa killed in
a parachute drop at the Rutland fair
Wednesday, Fremont L. Ros. aged IS, of
this city yesterday afternoon made an
acension in the same balloon and dropped
with the name parachute which v!
failed to open in time with Libbey x
demonstration wa successful ' .he
young man landed afely aftc vVig up
3.000 feet.
The crowd of 15.000 peoploi.ave an in
voluntary sigh a Ross broke loose from
the balloon. After being brought back
to the fair ground Ross wa taken to
the exhibition platform, where he stood
and received the cheer of the people.
Ros now say that he intends to follow
ballooning.
The result of the hore race yester
day afternoon were as follows:
2:25 Pace Purse $500.
Ruth W., bm (White) 1 I
Repeater, bg (Pottle I 2 3
Relle Armot, blkm (Smith) 3 2
Burns. Baron, brg (Lyons) li 4
Toe Andrews, blkg (Brennan) .... 4 5
Baby Mine, bin (Barrows) dis
Time 2:19V4, 2:18'2, 2:1!)J.
2:17 Pace Pure $500.
Princess, bm (Dore) 1 1
La Rustina, bm (Martini 2 2
Pedro, blkh (Martin)
IBisgio, bg (Mosher)
Time 2:16'4, 2:16, 2:161,;.
2:20 Trot Purse $1,000.
Ooehato Maid, bm (Dore) 1 1 1
Lizzie Worthy, bm (Pratt) 2 2 4
Billy Burke, bg (Hannefin) 4 4 2
T. S. Bingen, bm (Mosher) 3 3 3
Grace Flagler, bm (Booth) 5 odis
Time 2:1714, 2:19, 2:17',i.
VERMONT HAS
MORE PLAGUE
4 3
3 4
o More Cases of Infantile
Paralysis Found at
Poultney,
MAKING TOTAL OF 11
DURING SUMMER
The State Board of Health
Considered Situation
Last Night
RESULTS AT ST. J0HNSBURY.
All the Races Were Run Off in Straight
Heats.
St. Johnsbury. Sept. 8. St. .Tohnsbury
defeated Montpelier, 8 to 0, at baseball
yesterday and the horse races resulted
as follow:
2:24 Class. Mixed-Purse $300.
1 1
4 4
3 3
Waco, bin (Young)
W. 4 G bs (Harding)
Direct Patch, blkg (Berry)
Almont, rg (Lvonsi
Time 2: 26 '4, 2:24,, 2:29Va.
2:21 Class, Pacing Purse $300.
Dream Life, big (Berry) 1 1 1
Harland K., bg (Harding) 3 2 3
C, S. B., chg (Smith) 2 3 4
Jennie Bird, bm (Young) 4 4' 2
Time 2:25'4, 2:24Va, 2:23.
2:13 Class. Pacing Purse $300.
Honesty, bg (Presbyl I 1
Peter Directum, bs (Lvons) 2 2
Kleet, gg (Harding) 4 3
Daisy Queen, chm (Kittredge) ... 3 5
Ben Como, Jr., also started.
Time 2:16i, 2:18, 2:17'a.
INCREASE IN IMPORTS
In August Oyer the Record of July
St. Albans.
St. Albans, Sept. 8. There was a big
increase over the preceding month in the
amount of imports during the month just
past in the ermont customs district, ac
cording to the report issued to-day by
Collector II. C. Comings. There, was
slight increase in the export and the in
crease over the corresponding month last
year wa large.
The imports for the month of August
amounted to $3,139,322, as compared with
$2,379,5R2 for the corresponding month
last year, and the export were $5,602,
434, as compared with $3.390.4S5 for Au
gust last year. There was a falling off,
however, in the duties collected the past
month from last year, a well a for July
this year. The amount collected wa
$27,713.10, a compared with $28,408.78
during July and a decrease of $459.63
irom August last year, when the amount
collected was $28,172.73.
DEATH OF HEBER T. H0LMAN.
Well Known Randolph Man Had Been
111 a Long Time.
GOES ON VACATION.
Pres. Wilson May Not Return to Wash
ington Till After Election.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 8. President
Wilson left Washington at 1 o'clock this
afternoon for a stay which may extend
until after the election in Xoveinber.
To-n;ght he will speak at a suffrage con
vention at Atlantic City.
In a statement following the adjourn
ment of Congress, President Wilson
called attention to the lielpful legisla
tion passed and declared that while he
regretted the additional legislation deal
ing with the recent dispute between the
railroads and their employe was not
completed be had every reason to believe
it will be taken up immediately after
Congres reassembled.
INJURED AVIATOR DEAD.
Maj.
W. J. Campbell Was Hurt When
Machine Crashed to Ground.
Randolph Sept. 8. The death of Heber
T. Holtnan, an old citzen, occurred on
Wednesday night at hi home on Central
street. His trouble of a malignant na
ture was in hi stomach, and he had been
sufferer for three years and for the
last year had been confined to the house
for nearly all the time. At noon on
Wednesday, he suffered a hemorrhage
from which he never rallied.
Mr. Holman was the son of Seth and
Orra Holman, born in Brookfield 70
years ago. In March, 1874. he niaricd
Mollie Thompson of Waterbury, they
having lived together over 42 years, when
death separated them. They began their
married life in Waterbury, where they re
mained for seven year. Mr. Holman
wa employed by the Central Vermont
railroad company, from the age of It
years till he wa 36, working in the
capacity of bridgeman. Folh wing this
they came to Randolph and bought the
farm on the East Braintree road, where
they lived for 34 years, leaving there
when ill health compelled him to give j
up active work. Five children werej
born to the couple, Ltizie. wife of C.
Booth; Roy. who lives on the home farm
in town; Ouy of Braintree; Heber T. jr.,
of Xew Haven, Conn., and Max of Pots
dam. X". Y.
The funeral services wil be held at
the bouse on Saturday afternoon at 1
o'clock, and it i expected that Rev. J.
H. Thompson, recently of the Baptist
church, will come from South Xorwalk,
Conn., to officiate.
WORLD'S RECORDS BROKEN
After Some Very Exciting Heats at
Charter Oak Park.
Hartford. Conn., Sept. 8. Two world's
records were set here yesterday after
noon when St. Frisco won the classic
Charter Oak take for 2:08 trotter after
six of the most exciting heats of light
harness racing ever witnessed at Charter
Oak park. The second heat was declared
bv the judge a dead heat, the time,
2:07U. displacing the world's record set
in 1904 on the Brighton beach track,
Xew York, when Sweet Marie and Aristo
raced a dead heat in 2:081i. The other
world's record established was the fast
est six-heat race, the average time for;
the ix heats being 2:07Vi, against 2:0
19-24, set at Lexington, Kv., in 1910 in
a race won by Spanish Queen.
Burlington, Sept. 8. Two new cases
of poliomyelitis were reported to Dr.
C. F. Dalton, secretary of the state board
of health yesterday. Both patients aro
young children living in Poultney. This
makes 11 cases of the. disease in this
state so far this summer, with one fa
tality. This i not a large number of
cases, the authorities expecting scatter
ing cases over the state with a majority
in the southern part, where they have
appeared.
The regular monthly meeting of the
state board of health was held at the
office of the secretary, Dr. C. F. Dalton,
in the state laboratory building last
evening, with all of the member of the
board present. The business for the most
part was routine, with the reports of
the several department..
Dr. Linsley R. Williams, deputy com
missioner of health of the state of Xew
York, was present to confer with the
member of the Vermont board regard
ing poliomyelitis. Dr. Williams wished
to talk over the general conditions in
this state, and to get information as to
the treatment of patients following thu
ravages of the disease which will bring
afleeted muscles into use.
Mis Janet Merrill, who ha been in
charge of the work throughout the state
of building up affected muscles, will
complete her summer's work in Vermont
this week. Miss Merrill has traveled bv
automobile over the state supervising
the exercises which have built up mus
cle made useless by infantile paralysis.
Miss Miriam T. .Sweeney, of the chil
dren's hospital in Boston, who hag been
taking care of the patients in this city
and Rutland the past few weeks, while
Miss Merrill visited those in other part
of the state will finish her work here
this week.
NEW CITIZENS TO VOTE.
LONG IN POOR HEALTH.
Richard Smith of West Enosburg Died
This Morning.
West Fnosburg, Sept. 8. Richard
Smith, aged 75, who had been in poor
health for some time and whose condi
tion bad been growing more serious for a
week, died at 3:30 this morning. I he
funeral arrangements will not be made
until the arrival of his son from Fall
River, Mass.
Mr.. Smith was born in Montgomery
vne 17, 1MI, rnd lived there till the
death of his pprents, which occurred
when he was 13 years old. Ho came to
nosburg and worked hi.rd to secure an
education. He enlisted in Co. r, loth
Vermont, and on his return from the
war started a drug store in Richford. In
882 he returned to West Enosburg,
where he had since resided.
He married Mary Jeannette McAllis-
er, who oied several years ago. i nere
re three children surviving, as follows:
Mrs. C. Fuller Rawson of Enosburg Falls,
Mrs. C. P. Ovitt of West Enosburg. and
ichard F. Smith of Fall River. Mass.
He was well known throughout the state
nd he had done much to keep up the
ical ti. A. R. post, being largely instru
mental in preparing the Memorial day
celebration each year. He had been asso
ciatc judge of Franklin county, and be
also represented Richford tn the legi
lature.
Board of Civil Authority Places Thetf
Names on Barre List.
Would be voters turned out well for
the last meeting of the board of civil au
thority held at the city court room las
evening at 7 o'clock. A total of 31
names were added to the checklist, a,
dozen or so of these being citizens who
only received their final naturalization
papers at Montpelier last week. Thti"
board had decided to honor their peti
tions although they have not as yet re
ceived their certification papers. City
Clerk Mackay had a list of their names.
received from Clerk F. S. Piatt, and
there was no halt when the men present
ed themselves last night.
F. G. Howland was chairman of the
meeting and ten members of the board
were present. Just before adjourning
Carlo Chiaravalli was chosen as election
officer to succeed F. E. Comolli in ward
five.
Following are the names added in the
various wards: Ward one, L. P. Mud-
gett. F. J. Blouin, Frank Huntoon; ward
two, H. V. Knight. James Muart, David
Vania. Emery Xewhall; ward three, Ales
M. Troup, Victor Anderson, Kenneth H.
Gale, John L. Ross, Gcrolomo Valli, An
tonio Paluselli; ward four, James Mc
Leod, Alex J. Kirton, Jose Acebo, Thom
as Xicol, Arthur W. Pirie, William Brod-
ie. Augustine Carro; ward five, Cresto-
toro Piccmelli, Antonio olpm. .lames
McLigul. Ernest Peghini; ward six, Gui-
seppi Bardelli, John R. Ball, Arthur If.
Lund, Bert A. uebster, incerezo Let-
tini, Charles Scammell, Theodore J,
Beach.
AUTOMOBILE DEMOLISHED.
Earl Ward Escaped Injury By Jumping
to the Rear of Car.
VETERANS AT BRATTLEB0R0.
Nearly 200 Persons Attended Windham
County Association.
Prattlehoro. Sept. 8. Xearly 200 per
sons attended the annual meeting of the
Windham County Veterans' association
at Island park yesterday, about half of
Just as Earl Ward drove an automo
bile truck of the Barre Electric Co. on
the Central Vermont railroad crossing on.
Granite street this morning a train of
freight car was backed toward a aiding"
near the freight house. Ward jumped
from the seat to a ladder which was part
of the equipment of the car and escaped,
injury, but the vehicle itself was badlv
smashed, the wheels being broken ami
the lights, steering apparatus and body
being seriously damaged.
The automobile wa moving at moder
ate speed, the driver being on his way to
the Beck & Beck stoneshed. The machine:
wa pushed along the track for a dis
tance of six rods before the engineer
could stop his train. The vehicle did not
tip over and so Ward, clinging to th
ladder, escaped any injury. The truck
was of the 1!0 Cadillac make and be-
whom were old soldier. An address wa
made by Rev. Richard H. Clapp of the 1 cause of it weight wa kept upright
partment of the interior, recently pub-jof age and facrnrie. mills, canneries and
lulled, show that high price have pro
duced a prosperous condition in the mica
mining indutry in certain parts of the
country, so that. a one correspondent
in the S-uth writes: ""Everybody and
their children are I1dj for mica,
other establishment employing children
unter 14 year.
Rural credit law: Establishing m farm
bn hoard in control of a system of
farm loan mortgage hank.
y oilmen coinpeniatioii law: rrovii-
The Boston Bravna are in a battered
Buffalo. X. Y.. Ser-t. Mai. W. .T. ! condit ion for the XtionI league run-
Campbell, a member of the British Royal I ning. a they are minus the services of
flying corp. died last night of injuries Arthur ent, me ir ponMner. w no i
received when hi aeroplane crashed to! in the hospital threatened with a cae of
the ground from a height of .V1 feet, j typhoid fever; Frank Allen, another lcft
Theodw LV Kmiist of Fr-erwrt. X. Yihnder. ia on the lick list with a hrd
a Harvard tinivT-tv student, who was 'cold that mke it
Center Congregational church.
( apt. Henry C. Streeter of this town,
wljo is department commander of Ver
mont, was elected president. Other offi
cers elected were: Irenio W. Bush of
Brookline, vice-president; Edwin H. Put
nam of Brattleboro. secretary and treas
urer: and Mrland v. Hunter. Franklin
Stock-well and John M. Tucker, all of
Prattlehoro, executive committee.
Ward say he did not see the flagmaa
who is stationed at this crossing, it beinf
asserted that the flagman was seated ia
his chair at the time.
SHARP DECREASE IN DEATHS
And Also in Number of Infantile Paraly
sis Cases in Newr York.
Xew York. Sept. 8. A sharp deline in
infantile paralysis ae was shown to
day in the beialth department figures.
impossible t" work, jThe total new - were 48. 13 less thn
a pawnger with f irpbe!l. was injured 'and Johnny Eer is at his home in Troy I jesterday. and the deaths were 15, also
wteraallj- but will recovei. with jracticai;y no change id his arm. oroji t ij irom eteroaj-.
SOME NORWICH STUDENTS
WILL BE RELEASED
The war department order re
leasing l.i.000 National Guards
men from service for the United
States include the following:
Headquarters and supply com
panie and batterir A, B. C, D of
the Kth Connecticut field artil
lery (Yale batteryi; headquarter
and supply companies, machine
gun company 1st Vermont infan
try (Xorwiih university).
