y
JOHN ROBSON IS THE LOGICAL CANDIDATE
THE
WES
TERN
LIBERAL
Volume XXIX No. 42
Lordsburg, New Mexico, Friday, Sept 8, 1916
SUBSCRIPTION, $1 PEU YEAR
Douglass Shoots Orango in Hip
Jamea M. Douglass, an em
ploye of the S. P. bridge gang,
punctured Jose Orango Monday
with a 30-40 rifle, putting a shot
in Orango's hip. Douglass, as a
result of his act. now rests in the
county jail and will be brought
up before the present grand jury.
In the preliminary trial it was
brought to evidence that the de
fendant went to Orango's house
with some washing and display-
FANS SEE BIG FIGHT
What was possibly the biggest
boxing card ever Btaged in Grant
county was presented to a thea
tre packed with fans Monday
night at Silver City, in which
Bennie Cordova knocked out Bud
Anderson in the ninth round of
their second match of the even
ing. The boys battled ten rounds,
being immediately matched for
nnnthur tnri vvliinli nnlv nrrt na
. .. ...jBv
tnr ns ThP ninth vvhon I npHnn 1 J uuuiv.
. " ' " i -,, . t m
Assessor C. W. Marriott.
REPUBLICANS NOMINATE COUNTY
TICKET-CAMPAIGN NOW BEGUN
REPUBLICAN TICKET
Representatives W. E. Wat
son. Second nomination blank.
Sheriff Arthur S. Goodcll.
Treasurer and Collector Har-
ed dissatisfaction at not beinir slipped one under Anderson's
i . . . ' . i rii i ' i 1 1 :
asKea to nave a seat, me man:JttW "llu "inowuo ic up wun
of the house appeared on the
scene, ordering Douglas away
and flourishing a monkey wrench.
In a short time Douirlas reaD-
peared and as Orango left his
honse, it is alleged, he let him
have a shot from his ri fle. Lodg
ing in Orango's hip the bullet
did no damage to speak of.
In giving his testimony Doug
lass stated he intended to shoot
what he believed to be an auto
matic (the monkey wrench) from
the hand of Orango, but missed
his aim. Judge Marsalis admit
ted he certainly did miss his aim,
and gave him over to the grand
jury to recover his eyesight.
Married in Tucson
Miss Vivien Wright, daughter
of Marion Wright, of Redrock,
and Taylor Cloudt were married
in Tucson the first af the week,
returning to Lordsburg Wednes
day. They are both well known
throughout this section, where
they have been born and raised,
and each has a large circle of
friends extending congratulations.
blows to the body, Anderson tak-1 1 r0Dalc George u. Mc-
ing the count
Fred Anderson and Kid Pavo' Superintendent of Scools-Mrs.
went ten rounds to a draw in the George .Bisby P,nos Altos
best bout of the evening. They ' Commissioner First District
ing iiuiiiiiiitkiuii , oeuunu uiHinci,
L. H. Bartlett, Santn Rita; Third
District, John Robson, Lordsburg.
fought like young tigers and
gave the light tans a thriller.
A number of Lordsburg men
attended the big card and all
compliment Promoter Otto Fors
ter on his ability to match such
bouts as these.
Buy Central Bar
The Republicans of Grant ioun
ty, in convention at Silver City
vention for the nomination of
sheriff. Ho was nominated by
the Hon. F. W. Velacott in a brief
speech of glowing tribute to the
man and his work. Candidate W.
E. Cassman of Santa Rita with
drew from the race and gave his
support to Mr. Goodell.
The noniinaltions of James R.
Shipley for county cterk, Harry
Lamb for treasurer and collec
tor, George McCreary for probate
judge, Chas. W. Marriott for as
sessor, Mrs. Georgto Bisby for
school superintendent, and Wil-'
Ham Harris, folr surveyor, were
all unanimous.
Mayor Percy Wilson of Silver
DEMOCRATIC STATE
TICKET IS IN FIELD
DEMOCRATIC STATE TICKET
E. C. DeBaca for Governor.
A. A. Jones for U. S. Senator.
BOUGHT WITT HOTEL
AT DUNCAN, ARIZ.
Mrs. Thos. Simpson of Clifton
was in Duncan on Monday, at
which time she closed a deal for
the purchase of the Witt hotel.
The consideration was not niado
public, but it is understood that
the nrice was well un into the
W. B. Walton for Congressman. 1 thousands. Mrs. Simpson will
lane possession oi me noiei in uto
very near future. She returned
to her home on Monday afternoon
and is at present arranging to
move her household effects to
Duncan! Duncan News.
W. C. McDonald for Lieut. Gov
ernor. Antonio Lucero for Secretary
of State.
II. Lcroy Hall for State Treas
urer. H. L. Patton for Attorney Gen
eral. J. L. G. Swinney for State Supt.
of Schools.
G. . Davidson for Commission
er Lands.
M. A. Otero for State Auditor.
Neill B. Field for Assciatc Jus-
Cit.V WHS ninrln fnninnrn rr nml
on Monday afternoon launched a' permanent chairman of the con- llcc Supremo Court
ticket that has caused the elec- vention, and Carl Comstock, sec-
torato of the county to turn un-, retary. matt rowler was reelect The "take your time" conven-
V ALLEY VIEW
Fred Arnold and Miss Bonnie
Everett were married at the
home of the bride's parents on
Thursday, Agust 31st, Rev. D. F.
j Scllards officiating. The ring
I service' was used. The Valley
people were present to congratu
late them on thoir matrimonial
venture.
Mrc n Ti Knllnnla mwl nlitl.
precedented attention to the nar- ed to the position of county chair- tion nf tlm Niw Afnvira ilnmnimf, dren, who have been spending
Frink inri fkrnr lni,nonn f ty, its men and its principles. The ! num and Atty. Hamilton of Dem- ic party closed at one o'clock Fri- t,lc summer in Iowa, returned
rrailK ana USCar JOtinSOn, 01 ltt,nwiipnna V,nu nnmJ r.illtr wnn nnminntnil for tho nnal. i.. i...:.. :...! linnio Mnmliiv
---c "r i'vw. iiiuxiuii, jittviiiH iiuLiunuitju ,
tion of district nttnrnfw. in n M. .. ., ,.,,! ..,.. ., ...... i; I
, , niv uuuiu imiuuu iiiuii o t;tumi-
joint convention of Grant and dates on their tickets
Luna county delegates. Th hlterest of Gmt county
The resolutions, which were was centered upon the nomina-
adopted, endorse the records of tion of the Hon. William B. Waton
the Republican party in the state for congressional nominee. To
and nation, with special reference this end the Democrats of soulli-
,yo tne cancnaacy ot Uharles IS. western New Mexico arc satis
Hughes and his motto "America fied. Mr. Walton was nominated
First and America Efficient." and received bv the heartiest deni-
united btates benator Fall is . onstration given in the conven- N. J. Scott was in El Paso tlm
T?i0l a i 1 ,i u. Republicans
s jasaras: je, ,?s xLSjrszts. vi
tion, where they have a wide ac- Grant countyt
quaintance, and they will like y 0 .... n . .
meet with success in Lordsburg ' H ,, fGra"t , uny was
as they have elsewhere. , ?"Pec'i"Ty Tltcd ln, the nam"
commissioner from the third dis-
Messrs. Morris and Wriirht
will still conduct their wholesale trict
iiuubt; as nereioiore,
Mr. Robson was the unani
mous choice of the convention,
and has been pledged the support
of all the northern part of the
L. H. Bartlett of Santa
Ford Prices
The Scott garage announces.
the following prices of 1917 1 ord
cars:
Touring Car $412.35
Roadster $387.35
Prices are f.o.b., Lordsburg.
SUBSCRIPTIONS NOW DUE
LIVE IIACIIITA MERCHANTS
The Woatnrn T.ihnrnl this wook County
ua fi, fnf? e , a nit was a powerfl nomination
...... "...o ,q comlnissioner from th(J sccond
to the advertisements of five live district. The commissioncr from
wire Hachita merchants who are the first district in yet to be nam-
after the business of their terri- ed.
tor' L1 . 1 Arthur S. Goodell. well-known
Hachita is growing and growing business man of Silver City, form
fast and with the growth is com- er member of the state legislature
ing in a new line of business men and at one time sheriff of Grant
who are getting trade. The mer- county, was the choice of the con
chant who believes in advertising
always gets there.
Sam Killibrcws lias moved out
to his ranch.
Miss O'Conncrt is teaching at
Valley View.
iLOCAL And PERSONAL
commanded for his "Mexican
policy," and the resolutions join
in the requiem, for Senator Thom
as B. Catron, who will retire
March next. Likewise B. C. Ilcr-
tion. Alvin White nominated the last of the week making arrange
ments for
Fords.
his shipment of 1917
Jim. Wright and Jim Harper
i were Red Rock visitors in town
' the first of the week.
Grant conty man in an oration
eqalled to that of M. Antony, n.jt
ed after-dinner speaker of Rome.
The Grant county headuarterti at
nandez is endorsed and a pledge faanta re were after delivering
given to assist in keeping him as the goods and won for their lead-
congressman. er in a walk away. Mn Mrs L D WaUcrB ar.
The central committee will Alvin white was defeated for rived home Saturday from their
name candidates for the offices tlie renotnination as superintpn- brief vacation in Colorado. Mr.
of state senator, and member of deilt of schools by J. L. G. Swin- Walters was called back on ac
the lower house, candidate to the ne' of San Juan comity. The vote count of the pending strike,
senate from t.hñ "Ann t" rfistrirt stood 138 atrainst 1G. .
and countv commissioner from Ezequiel Cavez de Baca of Las Mns. John B. Crowell entertain-
New Shipment Of
Ready to Wear
CLOTHES
Styleplus Famous $17 Suits
Capp's Clothes at $15 to $25
King's Pants, Fall Shipment
SPECIAL LOT OF APRONS
AT 50c to $1.00
Walkover Shoes
In The Dry Goods Department
ALWAYS-
THE-
BEST
King's Kandies Keep K ool
eep
IN OUR DOUBLE GLASS REFRIGERATOR
In The Drug Department
TIib Eaile Drui Mercantile Co.
Lor dsburg's Largest Department Store
Local and Personal
Miss Dorntliv Chnsn rntnrnnfl
!.... c. ...i.... r i .. r j. o i V. . . . I
the first district.
m ed for governor and Hon. A. A.
, , joncs 0f Las Vegas was tho choice
Silver City. j of the democrats for their sciia-
Mrs. Frank McCarthy and tor'al nominee.
Hniltrllfnt AT a Pnanmu ri' rnf 11 r-n I w . .
numu ounuay irom L.ong ueacn, eu bunuay evening irom Loa An- flf rvipri i it TlliTIATri
Calif., where she has been for the geles, where they have been the ' MINIMO AINU IVlliNlnU
nnsr tavíi mnntlig with liof aunt . iu u a i üjlx iai
S uerndlirI ?Uf8 f M. McCarthy cous
Small t 111 ior 'e past two months.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Coon and' John T- McCabo was in town J. B. Foster, of the Bouncy
c.. eti t j en. 'tho first nf tlm wooir on rnnfn fn ' Minine Company, returned Fri-
City Monday in their new Mitch-1 El Paso from Long Beach. Cal. i dav. fl0n business trip in the'
Vegas was unanimously nominat- etl t,ie members of the bridge club
and tneir Husbands Saturday eve
ning. The Crowell homo was
decorated with labor-day appro
priate designs. Mrs. Nat Gam
mon and Mrs. F. R. Coon were the
prize winners.
Bonney Opcnod Up Again
Mrs. C, Engel has taken over
the Nesch sanitary bakery, and
is also conducting a lunch coun
ter in connection with the business.
Floyd Huntington has returned
ell Six, taking in the Republican1 Attorney A). W. Morningstar east and haá been makuiff prepa- cXA'
mnntv mnwinn nnrf vi.itin ' transacted letral business in sil- rations this week for a resump- Wash., w lie e he as called o-
w--- .it - 1 inrr tn an ainnmnmio onniirnif
Vflf I ItV fhA lira nf tlia urnal I LIUII Ul UUCI ULIUIIS ilL LIIK 1HII1U11S. ""r. . Z' " " "
" vmj vasw V V 1 1 V IT Cl.ni I .... '
John Haydon was down from ponney mine, wnicn is one ot the
county convention
friends
W. F. Ritter is doing duty on
the grand jury now convened at
Steins last Saturday.
íHSE5SKSHSESHSHSE5HSc!SHSESHSHSHKSESHSESHSES
Q "No one disputes a temporary prosperity In our land today. But
( It Is 6ectlonal In Its factory aspect, normal In Its fevered rush, flctl-
tlous in Its essentials, and perverting In Its tendency. Worse, It Is
k the gold sluiced from the river of blood, poured out by the horrifying
t sacrifice of millions of our fellow men. God forbid that we should
k boast a prosperity wrought In such waste of human life. Wehad
G rather rejoice In the prosperity of peace." United States Swiktor
S Warren Q. Harding.
5'
mm?:
m" fit
best in the local district
The unwatering of the main
shaft began"" Wednesday and
about fifteen men are employed
by the company.
Although nothing definite has
been given out regarding the
future operation of the mine, all
indications point to big things at
the Bonney.
falling his wife and son some
months ago. Mrs. Huntington
was badly injured and is still un
der the doctor's care at Seattle,
Wash.,, but the young son es
caped uninjured.
Tho best job
Liberal.
printing at tho
The Liberal ads bring results.
Í
"í i "r.,hilnrt Moodr
EnT
ránsit
A COMPLETE LINE OF
A. B. KirsGhbaum Clothing.
WATCH FOR
DISPLAY
vj-i iw'iTRr il
xz u ail tü ?r . n i. b
7
See Our Line ot
m
School Shoes
.Roberts & tally Mercantile Co.
Incorporated
