NIGHT.
EXTRA
.ydli. II.-NO. 214
Human
i c ,
Mtittt
NIGHT
l'lIILADEIiPniA, SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1910.
COHllattT, 1916, IT Till FDBtIO Lmtl COUMNT.
PRICE ONE GENT
KOMES GAIN-
$100,000,000 IN.
THIS DISTRICT
IWave of Prosperity Breaks
h Wealth Kecora, uonector
Lederer Says
TOTAL OF 300,,000,000
fpjifladelphinns Are Richer Than
Ever With an Assessment
on $3,G15,679
H.
I.
Seven Philadelphia Have
More Than Million a Year
Total incomes, moro than $300,
'fjd0,000. Individual income increase, $100,
000,000. Seven persona have l n c o m e.s
greater than $1,000,000.
Fifteen have incomes greater
than $600,000.
Total assessment income tax re
turns, $3,015,079.84.
Increaso over last year, $947,-
1M'27, . ,
Assessment of corporation re
turns, $2,907,853.
Increase over last year, $040,704.
Individual Incomes In tho First District
ft Pennsylvania, which Is centered In phlkx-
fdphla, Increased Approximately $100,000,
00 In 1915, according to a statement ls
lucd today by Ephrlnm Lederer, Collector
i tntnrnal Revenue. Tho EuroDean war.
H (nil. a ,1... ......... HnnnHt... ...I.tnl.
"ina espeti-..y iuu uv ui I'luajjciiLj' .viii.u
is sweeping the country, J'r. Lodered said,
ier largely responsible for tho Increased
wealth Of Individuals In this district.
t)MtftrinnlhlnTiR thus nro richer than iver.
The total assessment for Individual Incomo
tax returns tiled in tms district total ;,
15,670 84 ; tho individual assessments In
itU totaled $2,6GG,485.G7, showing an In
crease of $949,194.27 in 191G.
Mr. Lederer gavo out tho statement after
receiving tho total, assessment list of In
dividuals from William II. Osborn, Com
missioner of Internal Revonuo, In Washing
ton. Tho figures show that tho Incomes of
Jhlladeplhlans and others in this district
amounted to moro than $300,000,000 for
the" current year.
SEVEN HAVE $1,000,000 A YEAR.
The list nlso shows that tho Increaso In
Individual Incomes for 1915 In this district
ts approximately 38 per cent, larger than
for the previous year. It Is known that
it least seven persons In this district have
jtafly Incomo of 'moro than $1,000,000, and
15'or moro havo incomes of moro than
ISOJ.OOO. Tho number who havo yearly In
tmd of moro than $100,000 Is much
! t'MfMUr
Jil9i?Sia assessment, of--the corporation re-
it V turns for the current year wero made pub-
. tie recently and totaled $3,907,853, showing
rin increase of $040,704 over tho previous
fyear. The total increase in individual nnu
1 corporation returns in this district for the
: current year show-nn increaso of $1,500,-
898 over the prouous year.
Mr. Lederer said today tnat tho showing
for tho district was a record one. Whllo
the war .may be responsible to a certain
extent, Mr. Lederer said that the exporting
6f munitions figured In the Increaso in In
comes only to a small extent. Tho profits
from such exports, Mr. Lodercr explained,
iflll not be included in tho returns to a
great extent until next year.
BOOM THROUGHOUT LAND.
The war, by no means, is alone respon
llble for tho large Increaso," Mr. Lederer
aid. "There undoubtedly Is a general
boom throughout the country. Then, again,
we must not forget our healthy Industries
which are prospering. Among tho many
reasons for the Increaso tho preservation
of peace must not be overlooked.
"The export of direct munitions, I think,
has clayed really a small part In tho pros-
K perlty wave : at least as evidenced by tho
Increased Individual Income tax returns.
Of course, other largo commercial orders
from the nations at war might bo Included
In the general prosperity."
The Incomo tax bills, Mr. Lederer ex
plained, are bolng sent out. Ono half have
p men aeuverea. raymcnis musi, ue i.muu
it Dot later than Juno 30. '
'UNTAINTED,' CRIES
WILSON REPLY TO
ROOSEVELT RAP
Speech at Mecklenburg Dec
laration Fete Answers De
mand for "Americanism"
i
i -
TALKS TO DESCENDANTS
"We Should Take Pride in Spirit
of Co-operation and o
Peace"
MOB ATTACK STRIKE-BREAKERS;
FLEE FRQM COPS' REVOLVERS
y Men Saved From Harm in Bayonne.
Not a Shot Fired .
NEW vTOnK, May ,20. Twenty alleged
Urike-breakers, guarded by 30 pollcomon.
ere attacked by more than 300 men last
nljht In Bayonne, N. J., when on their way
from the Babcock & Wilcox boiler plant to
the West 8th street station of the Jersey
Central Railroad. Many wero bruised by
Hones.
I At command of Inspector Daniel Cady
lth patrolmen drew their revolvers and
' Charted. Tha moh turned and fled. Not n
frtwt was flred. ,
ii " -morgan meamsnip .uine yesieruuy
offered its 1000 striking longshoremen 35
nta an hour, with SO rantR an hnllr for
FiTtfit iiM.l. n ., aw .. . , .. .. c...
SY The ebmnanv also acrreetl tn recotrniza
jpthe union. The men put off a decision on
J,"" oner until today.
THE WEATHER
Blflf PllnU Ofti IVlllnitaKtnM In l.a Una n'f
urrol Austrian armies, "au fully ar
mta," are struggling with Italian bersa
frii 3 from 2esnatorta to tha Monte Mas
l$fr ? the Terragnola Valley, on the Isoniq
"Wti ''"' -svovereio, acorn v.cenxa, up
.ana down th. Tiaft-t.,., nt ... uiM in a
bSm?!1 0ne and ,he A1'00 sector,' to say
1 I l vostaoeiia sector ana ne
lAfealerO Zone. A taw nf thM mav htt
:mi. v:"tl". -.-" .." "-v j -
rJao..?' "". ""?. 0 W'1" BUt;h mass or l ;-.- v ,, j. ner cen. ,ncrease uss
J.?,i?"i-Ta ?n? rn" scattered througlt :".,, weeka fllro. the nirent said. They
rrr yroi-jt la almost impossible to
.card index them.
.v.. ?.on,y comfort lies in the thought of
tHtmnf,ca Fl- with a full moon and a
.wnperature 0f T8H- 1
FORECAST
For Pl,ilnri.ii.: j !.. rr.-
liuiltr Sunday partly clotdi and
iWgntly warmer' rtxntla ,1,UtU, .,
or details gee page. 7.
I.OST AN11 rOTOTD
E. BAvAirI'9t. jaasbook 144123. Los Anzelea
wyer. iuuj ArcTt bi . rM"t;
CHARLOTTE, fj. C, May 20. "Vn
tainted Americanism." That was President
Wl son s answering cry today to Roosevelt's
insistent domnnd for "Americanism."
speaking to a largo oudlcnco assembled
hero to celebrate the 141st annlversnry of
tho signing of the Mecklenburg declaration
of Independence, ho sprung, this phrase
nmld oclfcrous cheers.
"What kind of a fire aro you going to
keep- burning under tho melting pot of
America to turn out untainted American
Ism 7" ho asked of tho descendants of tho
Irish-American patriots who signed a decla
ration of Independence moro than a year
before that signed by the American colonies
In 1776.
Mayor Klrkpatrlck, desplto nppcalH from
tho crowd to "sit down," 'occupied 20 mln
ites Introducing Governor Crnlg, of North
Carolina, who presented the President. Tho
President was cheered for flvo minutes.
"I do not know whether I can interpret
tho spirit of tho occasion," ho said. "IJut
It Is necessary for us to take counsel as to
Just what It Is wo wish to celebrate.
"Thcro wero only 3,000,000 people In the
United States when the Mecklenburg decl.v
ration was made; now thcro nro over a hun
dred million. But tho same elements were
present then that nro present now.
"Tho United States always has been In
process of being mado and there always
havo been tho samo elements U high and
handsome passion for human liberty
"This country has devoted practically all
of Its nttentlon In past" years to tho ma
terial sldo of its life. It Is now a great
doalf moro Important to determine what
wo are to do with our power. What kind
of flro aro you going to keep burning un
der tho melting pot of America to turn out
untainted Americanism?
"Whllo wo were In tho midst of this
process thoro camo this great cataclysm of
war. Almost ovcry nation In this world
becamo Involved In tho great struggle.
What aro tho elements that brought about
this struggle? It Is a competition of stand
ard national traditions nnd national poli
cies. Men of tho samo nnd different nations
wore growing closer to each other. Whllo
these processes of fermentation and ac
quaintanceship were going on, they wero
getting to know each other better and
now tho melting pot is greater than Amer
ica. It is tho world.
"Now there Is room for a co-ordination
and co-operation of Interests. These bad
things bring to the foro tho necessity of get
ting together and taking counsel. Here in
America wo should tako prlds in the. spirit,
which prompts all tho world to get to
gether In terms of co-operatton and peace.
Now tho world outstdo America Is ask
ing what you golhg to do with your power?
Are you going to transform it Into forco
or' Into pcaco and tho good of the rest of
society. Isn't It the sign of a new ago
that now the world a about to fall back
on the mornl judgment of mankind?"
;
MISS HANNAH SEMON
GIRL CONJURES GHOSTS
AFTER 'CREEPY' TALES;
THEN SHE SEES THINGS
Oxford Street Residence in Up
roar as1 Thumping, Bumping
Sounds Send Shivers Over
Timid Occupants
POLICE TO THE RESCUE
They had been telling ghost stories last
night In tho dining room at 1817 Oxford
street.
First lG-year-old Hanna Semon had told a
"creepy" story and then her two girl friends
recounted wolrd talcs. It had been such
fun that Hannn's grandmother, Mrs. Emma
Dutton, forgot her illness In relating eerie
hnppenlngs of long ago, stories that made
tho threo girls huddle up closer together.
And then they had decided It wn- too "shiv
ery" nnd they had started tho vlctrola.
Then It was that Hanna began to hear
noises thumps nnd scrapings. Thoy sound
ed like they enmo from the parlor, where
there was no light. She glanced furtively
down tho dim-lit hall Into tho blackness of
tho parlor again nnd ngaln. But she was
ashamed to say anything. Sho thought It
was her Imagination nnd tried to drown
her fears In tho music. But tho unearthly
noises continued.
About 10 o'clock her lsltors, Bcrnndlne
Murphy, of 1819 Oxford street, nnd Eliza
beth Qulgley, 1508 Garnet street, went
home. Hanna saw them to tho door, paBt
tho now terrible parlor, with its spectral
shadows. Sho hurried back to her grand
mother In tha dining roim.
Tho nqlacs grew louder. Mrs. Dutton
heard them." "Frightened, Hanna ran to tho
cellar and let up tho dog He growled
ominously. Hanna and her grandmother
took tho dog upstairs nnd locked themselves
In a second-story room to wait. Hanna'n
father, Larry Semon, works nt night. Her
mother wns out
Hanna took a revolver out of a bureau
Continued on Pa to l'lie. Column Two
HUGHES' VICTORY
IN OREGON BOOSTS
HIM AS CANDIDATE
Shows Strong Leaning To
ward Him for Presidency,
Several Senators Say
DEMOCRATS ARE SILENT
Primary Result . Intrenches the
Jurist in Race, Wise Poli-
ticians Assert
Bu a Staff Correjonrtf)tt
WASHINGTON', May 20. The result of
tho prlmnry election In Oregon, whero Jus
tice Hughes was1 forced to bo n cnndldato
against his wishes, in tho opinion of Sena
tors and wise politicians, shows how strong
Is the leaning toward the fluprcmo Court
Justice and virtually Intrenches him nn n
formidable candidate for the Republican
nomination for thej Presidency.
Senator Gnlllnger, who Is for Senator
Weeks, declared that Hughes cannot be de
feated If the Republican party hopes to win
In No ember. i
Senator Bornh said: "Tho news of tho
h Oregon election was not news to mc. What
happened was just wtiat i nati anuapaicu.
If Justlco Hushes had allowed his name
to bo put on tho ballot what happened In
Oregon would havo been tho result in
oery Stato tn tho Union."
NATION-WIDE SIGNIFICANCE.
Senator Norrls, Nebraska "This Is tho
first tlmo tho people havo had an oppor
tunity to express themselves. I regard tho
result as of nation-wide significance."
Senator Oilier. Pennsylvania "I am for
Philander C. Knox, but no man not blind
can longer doubt tho tremenodus strength
of tho Hughes movement."
Senator Volndcxtcr, Washington "It Is
my belief n great deal of strength shown
for Hughes In tho Taclllc States Is really
Roosevelt strength."
Senator Works said ho might address
tho Senate again to express his disapproval
of Invading the Supremo Court for a presi
dential candidate
Almost without exception Democrats de
clined to comment.
Elections In tho laBt week, asldo from
that In Pennsylvania, tend to Increaso the
strength of Justlco Hughes' lead for tho
nomination, his friends say Vermont nnd
Alabama elected unlnstructcd delegations
with faorablo inclinations, toward Hughes,
while the final returns of the election In
Oregon yesterday show that Justlco Hughes
has captured tho ten delegates from that
Stato.
NO STATEMENT FROM JURIST.
Justlco Hughes today received without
apparent oxcltcment news nf his overwhelm
ing triumph In the primaries In Oregon.
His secretary announced when tho re
turns were read to him, that there would
nssurcdly be no expression from tho JustlCo,
and that it could not oven bo said ho was
Interested, -
Republican lenders, who believe thoy have
control of the coming Republican conven
tion, howover; took an entirely different
low nf tho situation "Hughes, against tho
Held," was tho expression of one promi
nent Senntor, and ho dcclnrd tho only llg
ire In "tho field" who could bo regarded as
moro than a favorite son, slnco the beating
Continued on I'uiee Four, Column l'lve
ORDERS 'SPURIOUS HEIR?
PRODUCED IN COURT
"War Baby's" Mother Demands
Custody o Child From
Rich Mrs. Matters
iBnaiu.
i i-rTrffi".. MDDhtre rln. Qlmbsti or Kcd-
sa-iSH5Siad Keturn to 801 8 48th t.
Other Lo.t bb4 ru,nd ,ta an m 15
CHICAGO. Mny 20. On the plea of Mar
garot Ryan, a Canadian backwoods girl,
principal witness against Mrs. Dolly Ledger
wood Matters, accused of foisting a spuri
ous helrt. on the cstato of her husband.
Judge R, M Xandls Issued a writ of habeas
corpus directing Mrs. Matters to produce
tho baby In court next Friday.
Pleading that tho baby had been Btolcn
from her side at tho hour of its birth at
Jlsecortlla Hospital, Ottawa, Can., Mar
garet told tho Judge she wanted tho child
back.
"I do not hato Mrs. Matters," said Mar
garet boforb Landls. "I wantthat distinctly
understood. She had been good to my
baby. But I am Its mother and want to
havo it for myself,"
Miss Ryan said that sh,e would tako the
baby to Ottawa, where she plans to live
with a brother who Is a street car con
ductor there.
"I won't bo able to give it fine clothes
like Mrs. Matters did, but I will give it
all my love," she said.
The defense of Mrs. Matters, In tho Cir
cuit Court, will begin its case early next
week. Charles Mellon, indicted with Mrs.
Matters nnd who was in lovo with her,
testified as a State witness, admitting tho
baby was Margaret's.
STRIKE DELAYS SHIPS
Ves3elsLoading Along the Delaware
Unable to Complete Cargoes, Steve
dores Demand Moro Pay
Five steamships, lying nt tho piers of the
Clyde and Bush lines, on tho Delaware
River front between Market and Race
streets, aye unable tp All their sailing sched.
ules because of n stevedores' strike, Tha
Clyde Line reports 160 men out and 34
others quit work with the Bush Line.
According to M. H. Vivian, general agent
of the Clyde Line, the men of that com
pany have no rea' grievance and "quit
cold" yesterday afternoon. They "were get
ting from 28 to su cents an pour ana nau
-ived a 33 1.3 ner cent Increase less
than three weeks ago, the agent said. They
refuse to return unless the company grants
them p cents more an nour "n v-ijuc
Line has oifly a few men loading tho Dela
ware, which Is listed to sail tpnlght for
New Yprk, -
At the Bush piers a similar condition
prevails. Four steamships the CHI, ElUa
beth Smith, West RIVer and Wilmington
await unloading, with only half a, dozen
Btevedores available. A. J. Harrison, the
company manager, declares the men walked
out yesterday afternoon xylthout notlco.
More Munitions In Britain
LONDON. May ?0. David Lloyd-George.
Minister of Munitions, last night announced
that 131 munition factories hae been added
to, the establishments under Government
control. The total Is ijow 8517
HOME, THOUGH HUMBLE,
PLACE FOR GIRL HOPING
TO BE NUN, COURT RULES
Carmelia Giansanti Wins Cus
tody of Daughter From Con
vent Despfte Fact of
Father's Poverty
RIGHTS OF THE
CHILD
Children hnvo n right to grow up and
live in the circle In which they wcio born,
whether it bo high or low, nccording to a
decision rendered today by Vlco Chancel
lor Learning, In tho Camden Court of
Chancery.
The decision awarded to Dominica Glnn
snntl, of 7th Btreet nnd Ferry avenue, tho
custody of his 15-year-old daughter Car
mellna, who sought to remain with tho Sis
ters of tho Immaculate Conception nt tho
Villa Marie Convent, at Frascr. Pa., until
she was old enough to be a nun.
Two years ago Glausantl's wife died,
Six children, tho oldest being Carmcllna,
survived. The father placed his children
In the custody of St. Michael's Society In
Camden. Several months ago ho remarried
and then asked the Bocley to return his
children. Flvo of tho children wero glvon
back to him, but Carmellna, who Insisted
she wanted to bo a nun, was transferred
from Camden to Fraser.
Cincinnati Instituted habeas corpus pro
ceedlngs. Attorneys for St. Michael's so
clety said the girl Insisted on staying at
the convent, and the girl herself, on the
witness stand, made the same assertion.
It was said also that n visit to the
father's home had disclosed that fact that
his entire family was living In three small
rooms. If Carmellna cams home, which
room was to be hers?
Upon this question the Chancellor said;
''The well-being of a child )s not a matter
of a day. It necessarily Involves an Impen
etrable future. It Is obvious that a parent
cannot be dened the custody of his child
merely because borne other person Is better
able to care for It. That a father is of
humble station, wlthouv much means and
pnsurrounded by luxury, does not incapaci
tate him from properly performing hla
parental duty. Every child has a right to
find that station in which it will be of tha
greatest usefulness, and that is the circle
in which sho was born."
TWO CHILDREN BADLY
INJURED BY AUTOS
Owner and Chauffeur of Ma
chine Also Hurt in Crash
With Trolley
AVIATORS ATTE31PT 1'LIGHT
FR03 "VIRGINIA TO N, V.
, , 1
Tyro Machines, With Passengers, Start
From Newsport News
NEWPORT NBM'S, Va., May 20. Steve
McGorden and Victor Carlstroin left here
at $ o'clock this morning In Curtiss aero
planes for New York to participate In the
aviation meet at Sheepshead Bay under the
ausplces,of-the Aero Club of Anierlca. Each
took a companion
The aviators planned to fly over Chesa
peake Bay, Ihen lip the coast to Cape May
and again, oyer the water. They expected
to be In New York before 10 o'clock.
t V WPJKHWX ,.,
si
MINNIE KARSII
Two children are In a serious condition
today from iiUurles received In automobile
accidents during the last 24 hours. Two
adults are In the hospital also, but are not
seriously hurt,
Severi-year-old Minnie Karsh. of 132
North 15th Btreet. Is in the Hahnemann
Hospital in a critical . condition. While
crossing Cherry street at Mole, she was
struck by un automobile lrlven by Harry
Fleming, 222 Sydenham street. One lung
was punctured, and )he received serious
Internal Injuries. Fleming picked the girl
up, took her to the hospital and then sur
rendered himself to the police. Today he
was released In his own recognizance pend
ing a further hearing. '
Ten-year-old Howard Franks, 190S Monu
ment avenue, la in St, Luke's Hospital with
a fractured skull and severe lacerations and
contusions. He- did not recover conscious
ness until this morning. He was hurt when
the automobllo of his father, J. H. Franks,
crashed. Into a, trolley.car at 5th street and
the Northeast boulevard.
The elder Franks, who is 33 years old,
was also cut and fcrulsed. Alexander Sel
fert, 38 years old. of 211 West Cambria,
street, chauffeur of the automobile, was In
jured, Both are still in the hospital. '
The trolley car wfis. crowded with pas
sengers when the auto struck it and much
excitement ensued as they made a rush for
the doors.
Selfert and the Franks boy. in the front
seat, were hurled clear over the wladshltld
into the street by the force of the impact
Franks waa-wedged in the wreck of the
auto.
QUICK NEWS
MIDDLE STATES SENIOR RESULTS
One-milo run Won by Head, Mercersburg second, Hill, Mer
cersburg; third, McKenzle, Central High School; fourth, Steers, -Hill
School. Time, 4 mill, 40 1-0 sec.
100-yard dash (final) Won by Motley Atlantic City iligh
School; second, Davis, Mcrcersburg; thiid, Smith, Hill School; fourth,
Cniter, Central High School. Time, 10 sec,
120-yard high hurdles (final) Won by Smalley, Central High
School; second, Mnssey, Hill School; thiid, Tiowbrldgc, Hill School;
fourth, Jeriuyn, Hill School. Time, 10 sec.
440-yard run Won by Kodgers, Northeast High School; second,
Dushncll, Hill School; third, Whitman, Mercersburg; fourth, Chnp
manj Mercersburg. Time, 51 sec.
HAWAIIAN VOLCANOES IN ERUPTION AGAIN
CHICAGO, May 20. Mauna Loa, ono of the greatest volcanoes? ia
the Hawaiian Islands, Is in eruption, according to a cablegram ro
ceived by tho Government Weather Bureau here from the -weather
bureau at Honolulu. It alsoBaiu that Kilauca. was unu&ually active.
CLEVER RtJSE NETS THIEF MUCH JEWELRY
Tho police of tho city are looking for a paperhnnger-plasterer, aged about 4D,
B feet 8 Inches in height, who catered two houses recently and disappeared with
several hundred dollars worth of Jewelry. The houses werojho residences of L.
Hodman Page, Jr., 2015 L'ocust street, where tho stranger told a mnld ho was sent
to inspect the wallpaper, and that of Mrs. A. D. Wiles, -1G38 Spruco street, where licr
sald he was a plasterer. About $500 worth of Jewelry was taken from tho Pago
residence and two rings valued at $150 wero taken from tho residence of Mrs. Wiles.
RUMANIAN PACTS DISTRUSTED BY RUSSIA
BERLIN, May 20. According to Petrogrnd advices, Russia is convinced the
now treaties) between Kumnnla and the Central Powers, whllo ostensibly commer
cial, in icality aro of political significance. Guided by this belief, Russia ia re
ported to havo taken certain measures, tho cxnc purport of which Is not disclosed.
A statement said to have boon Issued by the press bureau of tho Russian Foreign
Oillco says: "According to lending Russian circles, these treaties havo great pollt-'
leal Importance, notwithstanding tho nlllimations of Rumania that the treaties sig
nify no chnngo in political tendency."
FRENCH MINISTER TO BUCHAREST RECALLED
ROME, May 20. A Bucharest dispatch to tho Messagcro states that tho French
Minister and mllltury attache In Rumania have been recalled. Berlin advice.- yes
terday stated that recent agreements between Rumania nnd tho Central Powers
had aroused deep concern In RursIu, but did not hint that diplomatic relations bo
tween tho Entente Powers and Rumania would bo broken off.
BERNSTORFF SELECTS SUMMER, HOME
WASHINGTON, May 20. Count von Bernstorff, Gorman Ambassador, an
nounced today that the German embassy this summer will bo at Rye, N. Y. Tho
Ambassador and his staff will leave for Ryo on June 3. Last year Cedarhurst,
L. I., was selected. .
WANT ROOSEVELT TO SPEAK AT UNION LEAGUE
Nearly C00 members of tho Union Leaguo havo petitioned tho board of directors
to invite Colonel Roosevelt to address tho league on ''National Preparedness.'" No
action will be taken until the next regular meotlng of tho board. It is considered
probable that the Invitation will bo sent to the former President, who Is an honorary
member of tho league..
RUSSIA BUYS PALATIAL P. A..B. WIDENER YACHT
The luxurious steam yacht Josephine, owned by tho lato Peter A. B. Wldener,
has been purchased by Russia for use in tho present war. The vessel, which cost
500,000, has been laid up at the East Columbia avenue wharf of tho Delaware
River ever slnco tho Titanic disaster, when Gcorgo D. Wldencr and his aon Harry
were lost. Tho terms 4 the Bale aro expected to be made known today or Monday,
when the bill of sale wll. bo recorded at the customs house.
TENSION BETWEEN SWEDEN AND ALLIES ENDED
LONDON, May 20; It is 1-arned from the Foreign Office that tho tension be
tween Sweden and the Entente -Villcs has been ended, although no official statement
Is forthcoming at this time I.o'iU Robert Cecil, Minister of War Trade, said in an
Interview that an agreement rffd been reached, but would give no details. lie Indi
cated that the controversy between Sweden and Russia over the Aland Islands was
fictitious, saiug Russia never 'ntended to fortify the islands. Great Britain and
Sweden became Involved In u. dispute several months ago as a result of detention of
Swedish shipping by tho British, and particularly interference with Swedish mails.
In tepilsal Sweden held up thousands of parcels in transit by mall from Russia
to England.
NO LET-UP IN BLOCKADE, SYS LORD CECIL
LONDON, May 20. Replying to the German suggestion that Great Britain. In
response to tho change in the German submarine campaign, should .'modify tho food
blockade. Lord Robert Cecil, Minister of War Trade, declared yesterday theio was
not the remotest possibility that British economlo pressure on the central powers
would be relaxed. lie said; "e maintain that the blockade Is fully legal under
international law. Its reprisal character is merely Incidental, called forth by German
use of submarines, but the rigid enforcement of the blockade is merely an extension
of our rights which we had pot hitherto found it expedient to use."
. QUAKE DAMAGED 1000 HOUSES IN RIMINI
RIMINI, May 20. Serious damage was. done here by the earthquake which
shook central Italy during the night pf Mny 16-17, -Ten hquses collapsed and about
a thousand dwellings were damaged. The municipal theatre and the under prefea
ture school buildings were cracked to an alarming extent "and part of the church
of Colonnella has fallen.
$100,000 FIRE ON STEAMSHIP AT BROOKLYN
NEW YORK. May 20. Fire Jn the Norwegian Bteamshlp Hermlon, at the foot
of Warren street, Brooklyn, did damage estimated at more than J1QO.O0O and caused,
the bteamshlp, with Its $3,000,000 general cargo, to settle until the keel rested Jn
the mud. Late last night, after a fight of seven hours, It was belleve'd the flumes
were under control. Tho cause Jot the Are was not determined, and, though Fire
Marshal Brophy Is of tho opinion that It was accidental, he has begun an Investigation.
PRESBYTERIANS
REAFFIRM STRICT
SABBATH STAND
General Assembly Takes
Strong Stand Against
Sports on Sunday
CONSERVATIVES TRIUMPH
Baseball, Golf, Movies and Many
Other Things Under
Ban
By FRED J3. BAER
Evening Ltiatr Staff Corrcporftn
ATLANTIC CITY, May 20. Tho Sun
day sports question almost split tho Gen
eral Assembly of tho Presbyterian Church
In twain at its session today.
The word which turned whatever doubt
the 900 delegntes had as to how to vote
when tho question camo up wns uttered by
tho Hev. Dr. David Tully, who is 98 years
old, tho oldest man In tho convention.
Dr. Tully has not said much since tho
convention opened, Toway ho was In ac
tion. The sports obsorvnnco question had
reached the crucial stage where a mesrage
could swing It ono way or tho other, and
Dr. Tully had tho message.
"There's nothing," he said, "In the first
commandment about bnseball or golf. If
you permit this convention to go on record
as favoring nny change you placo young
mon who want to make tho Sabbath a day
of sports ngnlnst the Head of the Church.
Let us keep to our standards."
That settled It. A great speech followed
his, but It wns 'tho work of this' old man,
keen beyond many a younger colleague,
who made tho Presbyterian Assembly keep
to Its conservative policy.
Judgo Jnmes D. Androws, of Now York,
stnrted thci debate. Tho Commlttco on
Obsonance of tho Sabbnjh had reported,
as was expected, a recommendation which
asked tho church to renew Its censure of
all Sunday sport activities, starting with
golf, hitting particularly at baseball and
going all through tho list, Including tho
movies, nutomobilcs and oven tho publish
ing of newspapers. Tho recommendation
embodied the conservative Idea raised to
its highest degree
Judgo Andrews heard tho resolutions
read, and then got up to tell what ho
thought of them. This Is what ho said:
"These resolutions condemn without ex
ception all forms of sport on the Sabbath.
We must determine what sports wo mean
to exclude before acting so drastically. Wo
nro In accord In 'objecting to Sunday base
ball played for gain, and horse facing,
which Is no good.
"But gentlemen, a hundred years ngo
thero wero men who would hnvo objected
to Sunday trains, which now nro a neces
sity. Docs this General Assembly want to
condemn all gnmes on Sunday?" Cries of
"Yes, yes, yes" broke In on him, and then
ho continued:
"Why, the Scotchmen play golf nftor go
ing to church on Sunday, and they are
good Presbyterians. YOunK men cannot bo
expected to build up their bodloa without
exercise and many only havo the oppor
tunity on Sundays. To forbid nil games
will not advance our cause. The resolu
tions nre too" sweeping. I ask for some
modification in the recommendation for
tho .observance of tho Lord's Day."
When Judge Andrews finished thero was
somo sympathy for his viewpoint, espe
cially among tho lay delegates. But then the
clergy showed hostility nnd conservatism
wns In tho saddle again.
Perry L. Boulby, field secretary of the
Lord's Day Alliance, made a bitter speech,
In which ho urged tho abolition of moving
Continued on I'nitr, Four, Column Two
MERCERSBURG IS
ENTERED WITH BIG
SQUAD IN SENIORS.
Interscholast'ic Champion
ships End on Franklin
Field This Afternoon
JUNIORS SHOW UP WELL
By TED MEREDITH
Tho junior interscholastics at Franklin
Field yesterday afternoon proved a great
success. The school b'oys under 17H years
of age came forth and showed the public
that youth Is not a handicap in everything,
nnd especially not in track and field
athletics.
One record was, broken wheri Witmalr
nnd Frederick, two local schoolboys,- jumped
to a tie at 5 feet 9'. Inches. The record
was 5 feet 8 Inches, made last year by
Hampton, who was at Central High School
at that tlmo. .
Fendrick, of West Philadelphia High
School, displayed very finished form In his
Jumping. He is handicapped somewhat by
a weak right leg, but the drive he gets from
the left one is so hard that It sends him
up in the air like a shot. When he gets
up to the height of the bar he really dis
plays his great form and twists his body
like a veteran jumper,
Severn! other good performances were
staged by the schoolboys yesterday. Walsh,
of West Philadelphia High, ran a beautiful
nice in the one mile and won easily in I
minutes 50 2-5 seconds. He X&. out a sprint
about a 100 yards from home which car
ried him away from his nearest opponents
as if they were tied to the track. He la
just a blight fellow, but runs with very
good form. -,
Brooklyn was well represented herq ye
terday. Erasmus Hall had In Goldman &
sprinter who for his age is a wonder He
ran through & heat and semifinal, then
won the nnal in 10 3-5, which Is going
some.
Voorhees, a team mate bt Goldman's,
although boxed and pust-ed around, for the
first 30Q yards of the quarter, came along:
and licked a large field In tho quarter in
54 2-5 secorkls,
Central High School, was the favorite for
the highest number of points, but they
could win only by a very small margin,
and the floal result, was decided only by
the laBt eejjt, the broad jump.
Toda-Uia-senlors wjll put on their armor
and battlafor the places
Mercersburg arrived In town last night
at 6 o'clock "and was quartered around the
University campus in the. d lilt rent frater
nity houses
Jlinniy. Currau la full of confidence, but
still is a bit worried at the rpert that IUU
School wjiroe hero with 34 men.
Cur ran lias t men with hfnu and tt-
Continued on l'aje Six, Column TLrtii
Moatftgue- Glass Humorous Discussion ofGermany and the Irish Revolutipn, on Page 7, Is the Best of the ZappBirsky Series
