THE WEATHER FORECAST. 1
Fair to-day and to-morrow; moderate
west winds, becoming variable.
Highest temperature yesterday, 66; lowest, 44.
Detailed weather, mail and inarlno repoiiaon ajc 15
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 2(13.
PRICE&TWp;
lilt Mi 'a f '
ENTS.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1916. Copyright, 1016. bv the Sun Printing ami VubllMng Atsoctatton.
IT SHINES FOR. ALL
ft
T. R. ATTACKS
FORD, WILSON
ANDPACIFISTS
.
(,Xo Nation "Will Ever Al -
ack a Unified Prepared
America."
tXPKKPAIJEDXlttS 31 EX
A I'KKIL TO NATION
"Politico - facial Hyphen
Breeder of Moral Trea
son,'' He Declares.
AM E IMC A FIRST, HE
tllsJI.MP'V IV llHiPni'l'.
AcbrJtlO 1 1)1,1 IkULl .
l
.
Mexico Policy Has Killed
More Americans. Than
,
SpaiUSll a!', lLC fcil.VS.
Detroit. May 19. Theodoro Hoosc-,
.li In Dm lmm pin- nf Henry Ford
tlt in the homo cltj of umr l or.i
lo-uay niiacKcu tne poucy oi mo paci- i
fists and declared that Americanism
and preparcilliess lire nounu mgeuicr
ihn iwi. .-mat issues be.
. . , , tl, i .
fere t. c people of the Lulled States. .
Spiritual heirs of thou- who In the
Involution und civil war denounced
and opposed Washington and Lincoln
he called the peace at any pi Ice advo
cates, and hp condemned tho "profes
ficnal (leiinan Anietican" ln are
preaclum: paclllsin for the United
States to make this nation u prey to
eny foreign enemy.
"A foreign foe," he declared, "Is tho
fee of all of us alike."
"The polltioo-ruclal hyphen," he
aidtd, "is the breeder of moral trca-
Pat itlm, he said, has cost the llvei
C more American citizens In Mexico
t,.m were killed In the Spanish war
and has earned only contempt for the I
United States.
Col. Ho..-VPlt dellvprpd hLs address ,
i the Dftrolt Opera House, packed to
laMCty, and was greeted by an ova-i
:.n that cont.nue.l for everal mln-1
Thlrty-IHe thousaud persons. U
I. ctlmatcd. saw. heard or cheered him :
irlng a busy day In tho Michigan
c.ty.
The speec'i wns a feature of the
American Day celebration here,
lteaoiin for Speech.
Mr. Itoosevelt said In part:
I come here to Michigan because
in ine primary xor me scivcuou oi ,
liflcsates to the Republican National j
l invention Mr. Ford was victorious, ,
. . .. . 1. 1. - l
anu fOilow ng on ms victory nere, no
f .owed a marked popular strength l
N'"Thrk'l,?,1,,1,Cml'yLVal";V , , M
"Th ltii:it nti It mli'lci.'ihlp I
inn enuaiion maKes u nuv isanio i
to speu!t with courtesy but with en-
tit! frankness of what the success of
Mr. Ford means, and Is taken to mean, ,
.it.d of the forces that have given -Mr.
J-'ord his strength, it Is in Michigan. I
Mr. Ford', own State, whcic tie Ford !
nn... i tii. .. '
movement began, that I with to buy ,
tiat I have to say on the subject. j
Por Mr. Ford personally I feel not
merely friendliness, but In many re
l'K'tsaeryRemilnendnilration. Bat .ill thnt T hnvn thil u'lhl il.I.K
truth be said of manv nerh mi of mi
t ih.. T il f t i,' ? '
I the Tories of the Revolutionary
"ar and of many or most of tho
lautlsts of the civil war, the extrem
:ta among whom wero popularly
known as Copperheads. .Many of
t.esij Tuirs and civil war pacifists
were men of line character and up
right purpose, who sincerely believed
:n me cause they advocated.
i, .m.T, ,U iui ineo so large 1 until It baa neen cniuirmvii ny mo iving. pairioiism oi ueumomi, lo wnoin, ne Meld,
proportion of the old tlmo Tories and ' This Government, It Is explained, can It was due that Ireland maintained an
Coppirhetds, abhorred and denounced I do little more than make Inquiries, as It unbioUen front at the outbreak of the
tf.o militarism of Washington in 177G '-s f"u that any demand on behalf of war.
And of Lincoln In ISfll In tb,. u..,. Lynch would bo entirely Improper If It' As for Itedmond's Judgment of the
lutlonVv n eu, th. ;. itiyiwi i I proved that he violated tho llrltlsh . Sinn Fein movement, however. Mr. Illr
'5 ,UJ, caMel , ""J1 Hiite.I that I jn! ,,y participating In the Irish re- nil did not speak In very flattering
nasn.ngton was tho cinbodlnient of' ,.,llon. As an Ameiicin citizen Lynch j terms. In tact, he said he attached no
anarchic militarism. Their purnosn , ii.-iu ihn sunnort of this flovcrnment In , Importance to Hedinond's views on that
was to get the 'bojs' of Hunker Hill !
end Valley Forgo 'out of the trenches
ar.rl bring thim back to tliclr homes
rnd mako them emit lighting. In isi)i
Pity denounced Lincoln us a military
illctatur. Remember that tho jiacitlsts
o to-day. the peace at any price men.
nowev-i-r win meaning, are the spirlt-
'a: .ini moral helis of the men who1
(ifnnum. 1 and opposed Washington: '
"Mhc men who denounced mid voted I
w?a.nt Abraham Lincoln.
'I lie liue of Thin Crisis.
"lMhtr wo must surrender our
t :bis ind at the same timo our Helf- j:ast Columbia avenue wharf in the
fvpeu, or else we must be ready to1 Delaware River ever since the Titanic
"'.'fciiii our rights with a hand trained disastir carried George D. Wldener and
'o exrr. ,1,0 the weapons of free men. ' "on. Harry, to the bottom of the
-r.d ,,,, a heart steeled to thnt stern j At'" tlln Titanic disaster robbed the
nirac for the lack of vvilluh the pns- MnaR.k.r of M.n ami grandson he de
".loi of the softer vlttui's can never chned he would never again set foot
at"ne. ,,,, the vacht that had carried lllm so
i' b is tho Issue. It Is as clear cut '
in ih,,4 yiar lp; as It was In Dil or
'"'i in the hlstoiy of this country
"its Is the t lilt (1 gnat crisis and It
r ineiibs with a tremendous world
r"iii I'lm issiio Is: Are wo nrennred
'ih it nine and lofty Idealism to III ,
wursi vts to lender great service to
Kinkpul by tendering our.sclvii lit for
'ur wn sirvleo, or nro wo iMinti-nt to
v-ld f iff ii t and labor In tho present by
preparing to tread the path that China
'as 'roddi-n?
"Tin' tlfty-one Republicans who, (he
flher day, voted against an adequate
army urn the spiritual successors of
,r-'s ItTiubllcans who, twenty years
In ('ongress voted for nil kinds of
'lf measures which they hoped would
Coiflaucd on fifth Coge,
HUGHES LEADS IN OREGON.
Woiiifii'H Villi- I'nln Justice Abend,
Upturns Indicate.
I'onn.ANii, Ore, Mny 19. l;ato re
turns from ti-.l;iy Presidential primary
ItidiRite that Hughes Is running nwny
from Cummins and Hurtoii by a slight
margin. About 70 per cunt, of the enrolled
vote was cant, and tho assertion Is
I '"'"lo Hint Hie women voted for Hughe
3 to 1. This. It Is declared, will be
I"' "",o eu' f "ugi's success it
Tlie cotintlnR of the ballot show that
many voter wrote In the namo of Theo
lore Roosevelt and that a largo per
centage of the Progressives supported
Cummins.
Two Democrats received the lndorso
ment of the Prohibition party for Rep
resentatives In Congress when thnt party
met In nominating convention during the
day. Oswald West of Portland, from
the Third Congress district, and Maris
W. athcrford of Albany, from the First
district.
he party also Indorsed the present
prohibition amendment to the State Con
stitution and declared that "tho law
should bo given a fair trial and no now
legislation h.iv.. th.it to ellmlnnto tho
abuse of tho law" should be enacted.
Almost a complete State ticket was
named ny me I'tohlhltlonlsts.
I The party went on record for Mm w.
" ZllU''!1 "' X Prank llanley of
Indiana. The Itev. F. V. hmerson of
" Angeles received tho Indorsement
for Vice-President.
t. r. libeller now for him.
,:,",,,r Who ,,n,,l c-
Cents. "A.linlrm- HI,,,.
Dktroit, May 19. George A. Nowett.
. unu, mi.- if HiKnunK iron lire, has
come out for Theodore Roosevelt.
This announcement may eem of small
Importance until It is recalled that this
' "" "" eum,i wmun me uoioncl
fW(X for BOl JluI).menl und K()t a
m cem ver.nci.
j" n, "i,,a received here to-day by
a local newspaper Newctt Kis:
"To me It looks llko Hushes, and the
sentiment Is l.irg. for htm tin here.
Should Roosevelt bo nominated I cer-
niny .,,, pllOI.t ,,m admrlng his
vivid Americanism!. "
WILSON'S PLEA WINS
RESPITE FOR LYNCH
British War Office Orders Ex
ecution of Irish Ameri
can Postponed.
Special Cnble lepitfh to Tnr. Scn
I.ns'iON', May 19, From what could
, "e A jVremlah L n c
", v"" v' -i , .' .Ei. I
I!lt-Il, UVJUl 11 It'll II' it 1 -UUI l-III.II Hill Ul
..nrtlclnntlon In the Dublin rebellion and '
sentenced to death, is still alive. The
War O.llce and Gen. Sir John Mnxwell.
rommamler of the HrltM. troops in
'"'j SKhK'
"r"(. , 1 'J?, t " p nm m to
Jj o Pre" ld"?Wl
It was reported last night, was to bo
execut. 1 at 4 o'clock this morning.
HM... 1 I--.1 -
S r' " . .L" ..
CUtll'Mltlll llllf III II" 1 IIUI'll f I J III II lt I II ,
bad received an Imiulry from Washing-
to,, concerning Ljnch's offence. m,ut-,
foJW!UdlnB . Washington of the facts
Ing that he lie not executed pending the i
, tln cahe. The embassy added that
It was awaiting tho repiy of tho War
Olllce.
.1... '!.. Am.. I. ...... I. 1 ...n.
" " ""mi " .
I';''"'" '" t.1 X ir
l! f the" ac s are aVstnted the execu-1
...
,, ,.,n,.a
I i,;lt'er i the afternoon the Foreign
'Olllce forwarded tho State Department's
request concerning Lynch to Gen. Max-
well at Dunim. ani, -there would nave been a great
'explosion of rage nnd disappointment,
AMBASSADOR PAGE ACTS."'" 'r"'' '' fnlte.1 States.
which, when war came, would havo as-
. ,..-,. ...... .vi.i. sumed nlarmlnir nronortinn Tim nvnM.
Mi'lRii iiiiu'p. t)). , rlMorltes ln i9H undoubtedly
Washington, May 19. President had a great effect on disloyalists elso
Wllson's move to savo the llfo of Jere- I where,"
mlah C. Lynch, accused of complicity
the recent Irish plot, was delivered In ,
time to the llrltlsh Foreign Office. The
' ,,. ,...,.,, hni! ,. .. ,
report that Lynch had been tentenced
to be executed by an Kngllsh tiring .said exercised an Influence upon the
snuad in Dublin this morning proved 1 minds of the people of Ireland that could
Inaccurate. not bo oveiestlmnted,
Ambassador Pane at London reported Mr. Hlrrell then i-poke of John Ited-tn-nlght
that ho had taken the matter mnnd. That the Nationalist lender If he
up with tno l oreign i' nee, n aiimu
that he did not jet know what I.ynch's
Miitence was, as It had not been made
....Lit., tin. I wmila not tin mailn lillMli'l
seeing to It that he obtains a fair trial
nnd that he Is given such rights as aro
customarily extended under theso clr- ment was negligible, while he (the wit
cumstances : but that Is about as far as miss) hid always been itulto sure It was
the State Department can go in tno
matter,
RUSSIA BUYS WIDENER YACHT.
The .lelil
tIIiiiiIp llUimler.
, .r, u(nnm
Pi.ii.Am:i.r;i.i. 1 1 " , '.
VnCIH .lliniilll"'-, "...' - "'
A, H. Wldimer, has been sold to tho
Russian Government. This vessel, which
. t-.nn onri h:is been laid un at tho
many thousands of miles along tho coast
and across inn uieiin. un iwiu i nm
word, and members of the family did
likewise.
Thn Josenhlne was built at tho Neafle
!& Levy shipyard In this city at a cost
ni ir.nh.noo. She Is 213 feet In length
and of 311 feet beam, with a IB foot
depth of hold. She Is of "l tons gross
register nnil tiJ ions on, ituin'iirii m
ISUli, she Is eiiulpped with submarine
signals, wireless and powerful engines,
and Is furtilhhed ill the most expensive
style.
nnlrii on Wnr lllaka IW-ilurril.
Special Cahte Dttpnlch to Till! Svs,
London, May 19, Lloyd's rates on
war risks have been Rreatly reduced
owing to the decieased activity of sub.
marines. The premiums nsked are now
from 10 to ZD shillings below tha recent
quotation
KITCHENER BLAMED
FOR IRISH REVOLT
Him-ll Snys Wnr Minister
Wouldn't Tny IIcpiI to
Warnings.
N() SOLDIEHS TO SPA RE"
I'sdchs lo Call Attention of
Cabinet to Ireland, De
clares Secretary.
Siircitil Cahlt lt patch In Tnr. Scf.
I.onpo.v, May 19. TestlfylnB before
the Koyal Commission InvestlRallnR tho
circumstances precedlnR nnd surround
ing the recent Irish revolutionary out
break, AuRuntlno Hlrrcll, former Chief
Secretary for Ireland, to-dny placed the
bulk of tho blamo for tho rebellion
squarely upon the shoulders of Secre
tary for War Kitchener. Mr. lllrrell
stated that as far back ns March 20
ami 27 ho had had conferences with the
War Secretary nnd with Gen. Sir John
Krcnch, commander of tho llrltlsh homo
forces, nnd tried to persuad both to
send mora soldiers to Ireland, as the
Sinn Fein movement looked very serious
to him.
The War Office replied." testified Hlr
rcll, "that they were very busy train
InR men, nnd that tha men could not
bo spared to be trnnsferred to Ireland."
Tho witness said he tried vnlnly to
Impress Kitchener nnd Oen. French thnt
"the peoplo of Dublin should hnvo evi
dence that ntiKland still had t-oldlers,
nnd that If soldiers with bayonets nnd
bands could be Rot to parade the streets
of Dublin It would have had a great
effect on tho Sinn Felners.
He added that the revolutionaries
would tiwn have known there was u
tttce In Dublin with which they would
have to contend,
!ord Wimborne. who reslRned durlnR
the rebellion as Lord Lieutenant of Ire-
thrtlum'.
tneiit, the witness testified.
'', I nrmj," lllrrell Snr.
When Sir MontnRUe Sherman, a mem-
ber of the commltsion, put tne direct '
MUi'stlon :
"If the military authorities had ncted
upon our advice, the results niluht not
have happened?" the witness gave an
evasive answer, repeating that he. had
been "very uneasy about Dublin," and
adiline "but I did not anticipate sneh
a thing-, nor do I know anybody else
who did."
Tho uneasiness whereof he spoke, the
"". ltl, him for
tu' ''" Prior to the outbreak. -
I Substantiating on the whole the testl-
. . , , . ,
f.hpn . Jep,,T',H' the former
L V .m iA V ,,.i 5 Mna"-
nS VlSiiV" In Ip5lIJ,n'ftl',
',1(,01 ver Z
' President Im H-nHnKc. or oVhers of
i,lle f"'"'"'"-"'" asked him with uncon-
X " ne,, ' ' ''CJ ' A'1." .?'"''.'"
, T f, .1' 1 .,ha,t .''."""'"L":
" HUH
ventlon was considered to be the safest
'policy." Indirectly corroborating vester
.-.11 , .
'71 ,,VL "ui ur',lrr "M'"nI 1
f"1, " 1
,,' ...,.....i..v nun
Incidentally the witness Illustrated the
tn mecdous political effect of the placing '
on tne statute nooks of tho home rule
bill In It'll, not long before the out
i.-pnt nf Ihn Fnrrme m -ir Thl. ,,.ni
to UUr, vlevT."c.,me "to
1,1 a t,ul' "Penological moment."
Home llnlp n I'liptor.
"If the home ruin bill had not been
.placed on the statute books." tho witness
,ln r9lCr and the gun runnlmr at Larne
liually far reaching, according to Mr.
lllrrell. wns
Sir F-dward
i, ,,,
wns the errect of the entry of
C.tr'-on, the IJlsterlto leader.
Into tho Cabinet, a step which Hlrnil
uau accejueii oiuce in me same uaiilnet
would have forfeited his leadership of tho
Irish party was tho view of the witness.
Mr. 1llrri.lt nalil linnllHtlflivl trlhtit,, In tn
subject, Itedinond, he explained, had
. always maintained the Sinn Fein move
very fiangerous, especially so in view of
the fact that there were armed bodies
of volunteers "all over the place.'1
Again asked why no steps were taken
to disarm thee, Illirell repeated that
only a general disarmament would have
done any good, while makeshift measures
would have provoked serious ttouble,
Illllini Aunliml lllsnrmaiiieiit.
The policy of non-interference, he said,
was decided upon after conferences with
the Irish nailers, among whom John
Dillon was particularly strong against
d'sarmament. Mr lllrrell clearly left the
Inference that while he himself had
foimed "a pretty rlear estimate of his
own. ' and vvas not given to being In
llui'iiced by others, he yielded to tho
view of the Irish leaders that nothing
should ne uono to cause iroiiiiie,
The Importance attached by the wit
ness to the Inlluenco of tho Catholic
clergy on the rebel movement vvas
manifested by this statement:
"If a pi lest was an antl-Sltm Felner,
Sinn Felnlsm died out, but If the priest
was III favor of K. the movement was
piiimoteil." This, he iiald, referred to
the piovinctal districts, the situation In
Dublin being different.
He was exceedingly nervous long be
fore the rebellion Mured up, tho witness
testified, with regard to "what was going
on in tne cellars in uumin. nut some
how, lie explained, the authorities never
could learn the real facts and so things
were let go their own way, "I should
be very curious to hear If anybody kin-v
this thing wns going to happen," added
Mr. nirrell.
Again referring to the part plnyed In
the Hlnu Fein movement by priests, tho
CgntUmA Tkirii taut
AUSTRIAN GROSS
ITALIAN FRONTIER
Defenders Are Driven Hack
Four Miles, Say Berlin
Despatches.
ITALY NEAR KOVERETO
tlen. Cadornn, in Report. Ad
mits Retreat, of His
Troops.
Special Cable Pettpatch to Tub Sin
Londom, May 19. For the first time ,
since tho bcRlnnlng of the hoetllltles be- 1
tween Italy nnd Austria the Austrian? '
havo crossed the Italian frontier In the 1
Lbro dl Ciiirdn region and aro estah-1
llsheil on tho Costabella, a rlilKe of the ,
Monto Haldo, between tho lake and tho
Lagarlna Valley. At this point, where !
the present Austrian offensive has met ,
with tho Rrcatest succcw, llerlln des
patches say that the Italians have been
driven back four miles from the positions
on Austrian soli which they occupied at
tho opening of the attack nnd which they
had held slnco early In the war.
The positions on the Austrian nUlo of
tho frontier In this region, from which
the Italians have now been driven, were
abandoned by the Austrlans orlRlnally,
according to German military writers. In
order to baeo their defence on a stronRor
line running across the head of tho lake
from ltlva to a point somen hat south
of Hove re to.
The lighting continued with Rrent vigor
last ntht anil tiwlnv alrmt' tir:utlc:iltv
tho whole Austro-Itallan front from the j
Monte Adamello zone to the sea. The'
Italian War Olllco admits the eviicua-
t'on of iiosltlons on tho Zuima Torta.
Iwtwcen the Adliro and the TerraEiiolo '
valleys, and In the Monte Magt-Mu zone
between the Val .ill Tcrragnolo and the 1
uptr Astlco . under extremely vlol.nt
i?uitiiiii mull' iiiu .iiiaui.ui ,ii-
f which the Italians with-
diew, wero broken do it. The Austrian '
nlso were repulsed In the Val dt Sugana (
ZU10
In' the Adamello zone the Italians ,
inre on the offensive. Here they occu-
,,ied a bridgehead and the heights com-
tiiaudlug It on the upper Sarca.
lleT Artillery riKlillniC.
The oftlclnl itatetiunt Isi-ued by the
Italian War OfiU-o to-night follows.
In Um Adaiiielbi oi... our truii.
nii'iipled a bridgehead on the upper
Sarco and contiguous heights, taking
thirty prisoners nnd rich booty in
stores and ammunition.
Between tho thii-se and the Adlge
there was Intense artillery activity. ,
On the front between the Adlge and i
the Terracnolo Vallev we evacuated a
position on the Xugna Torta, Wii
three das of iiinstant bombardment
had rendered untenable. Two sub.--ipieilt
attacks agaluM our positions
south of the Zugna Torta weie re
pulsed with extremely heavy losses.
We took numerous prisoners and one
machine gun.
In the zone between the Terragnolo
Valley and the upper Astlco the en
emy continued the violent bombard
ment with batteries of all calibres of
our line of defence fiom Monte Mag
glo to Sogllo d'Asplo. In order to
avoid useless losses we evacuated the
line In perfect order, retiring to posl-
lions In tho rear, where we establl-lied I
In the Aslago zone there Is nothing
Important to report.
In the Val .11 Sugana, after Intense
artillery fire, which continued through
the night of Mny IK, the enemy at
daybreak attacked our V.illemagglo
and Monte Colin positions, but vvas
everywhere repulsed
Our artillery bombarded Innlchen
and Sllllan. In the Drava Valley.
long the remainder of the front
there was Intense artillery activity on
tho upper Hut and moderate artillery
tiring on the Isonzo and tho Carso
plateau. On the night of May IS wo
repulsed an attack In the Monfal
cone zone.
Kiiemy aeroplanes flew over several
towns In the Venetlnn plains. Dim
person vvas killed and one wounded,
The material damage was slight. Our
aeioplanes bombarded enemy encamp
nients and cantonments In the Fol
garla zone, returning safely In spite
of heavy fire from anti-aircraft guns.
Iloverelo ilnnce Coiilliiiies,
A despatch recetvid to-night from the
Home correspondent of Tun St'N would
Indicate that even the successful Aus
trian advance to tho Costabella and tho
Austrian attacks on the Zunga Torta, to
the northeast, havo not prevented the
Italians from continuing their move
ment against Hovereto. Tho despatch
sas :
"Italian outposts are now In tho sub
urbs of Iloveieto. It Is believed that
the Austrlans are evacuating the town
Italian patrols have been able to enter
the city at night and to pull down the
Austrian coat of arms from the post
otllce and other Government buildings,
"Italian military wrlteis luteipnt the
Austrian advance In the Tientlno as hav
Ing been Initialed In ruder to check an
expected Italian offensive. The Austrian
move Is iegardd as evidence that the
Austrlans do not place dependence on
their frontier forts, which the Italians
ate threatening to surround and Invest.
Tho Austrlans are concentrating troops
and heavy aitlllery to copo with an Ital
ian offensive."
RENDERS PROPELLERS SILENT.
Itiillmi OIHi'i-r'n Appiirntiis llendens
Sound nf Airships.
Special I'aMe Hetpatcli tn Tnr. Sis
Riimk, May 111.
-An Italian officer has
! i
noise of airships' propellers.
A successful lest of the device was
made In a recent rnld on Trent, An
Itallnn iilrshlp with muffled piopellers
wns able to fly undetectid at an alti
tude sufficiently low to Insure hitting
the targets alined at. Thus bombs were
thrown on the station, which was
wrecked; on Hie barracks, whom nil
nieimiH slipping soldiers were killed, und
on the Grand Hotel, used as military
headipiiirleie.
llombs from the airship also damaged
Hie railroad between Trent and Matla
rollo, cutting off communication with the
Austiinn forts on the plains of Fol
garla and Lnvnrone, since the Italians
bold Iho railroad between Mori and the
t.airo dl Lopplo, west of Rovcreto. nnd
Austiinn communications will, Hlvn ato
limited to a hllfhroad which Is extnifccd
to the fir ot tlia Italian rtltlura
WOODS EXPLAINS WIRE TAPPING;
U. S. INVOLVED, ASSERTS MARSHALL
WAR ORDER HUNT OF FEDERAL
IMPORTANCE, SAYS MARSHALL
'piIE following statement concerning tho wire tapping activities of the
police was issued yesterday by United States Attorney Marshall:
I havo nudo Inaulry into tho
circumstances concerning tho In
vestigation now going on Into ttio
"listening on" tho wire of Messrs.
Seymour & Seymour, and Und that
the case which tho Police Depart
ment referred to ns having to do
with tho Federal authorities Is a
cusp which I know has been of In
terest for somo tlmo to the Fed
prat authorities, ns It Involves na
tional Issues. Any publication of
tho facts In this case at the pres
ent time would s most regret
table from tho standpoint of thp
administration of Federal Justice.
Mr. Marshall ndded that tho law firm of Seymour & Seymour
wns not involved in the case, but that persons having desk room in their
olllce were concerned.
INTERESTS OF NATION ARE
AT STAKE, INSISTS WOODS
Police Commissioner Issues Formal Reply to Criticisms
by Senator Thompson Mayor Says Opposition to
Telephone Supervision Is Downright Treason.
The clash between Mnyor Mltchel nnd
Soillltnr Thompson, rallyliiR nfter the
,. - .. , ... ,u
respite nf Thursday night, when both
b!es leached an agreement that Police
Commissioner Woods's Justification for
tapping tho telephone wires of Seymour
, ... 1 111 .t It
.-I- ,
reached a hectic stage yesterday
morning soon nfter both were out of
i,,.,, Thf. hostilities were occasioned by
. ,
NM,a,or Thompson's statement that the
tapping was not Justllleil ; mai no nau
Information that the tawd line led Into
the olllce of the Hums Dcticllve Agency
and that there were not national In
terests Involved In the Incident.
Commissioner Woods took Issue with
the Senator on that point, but his re
marks wire slightly cooler thai, those of
tho Mayor, who did not hesltato to say
that he branded ns treachery tho de
liberate nttcmpt of any erne to destroy
one of the most powerful weapons In
' ' ,itn,.t i
" " ' ' I
and prevent tho operations oi puuuc
' enemies. Hoth the Commissioner and
I .1... Inm.li.n.l tm I ...... 1 1 1 !
I "ur
?eiiaior i mniic-iui inn n." n...
prom.s" lo can .vir, vvuous in mu n.iuu
i at 11 o'clock In the morning. Hoth
j statements follow. Commissioner Woods
said :
1 "Senator Thompson Is quoted as say
' Ing that the tapping of the telephone wire
of Seymour & Seymour was uujuttltlable.
It Is hard for me to believe that ho has
,ben lorrectly quoted, because ho said
1 i stent, iv to m and the Mayor that
if the tapping of telephone wires was
Jiistltled at all as to which h had not
ma,i,. up s mlnd-the tapping of.
i... i,iii,nr win was instilled from the ,
facts as piesented to him. Further than Covernment s not Involved, after he had
that, after the statement given by DIs-. i en warned by me a week ago that n.i
trli t Attorney Swann. Senator Thomp- j ttonal Interests were Involved, and after
son with the rest of us, heard the His-1 the Government Itself had warned him,
trlct Altoinev htate that in his jmigmeni I
the detective work done by me pen ce
over that wire was Justifiable. The DIs.
trill Attorney stated that there was
sutllcleiit ev l.lenee that a crime had been
committed to Justify the police I" listen,
ing over this wire.
Trimble for tin- Null"".
. .i,i. .,n,.,mi it seems lain small group or people who con-,
Ae.oi.llng to this UU " 'u 11 ts ,'.,! tended that their privacy was Invaded.!
that Senator Thompson ' ' "'J, They ,,! this muss, Just as Se mom
my Mat. ment of cs Ur.Uo liat ""'"r- , when he nude It a-
lain Government matters e re al- l-! ,hat . ,mv lm,.,vo fr MIK,r. !
volvid here in the listening over i e,
Seymour wire. No matter wl
the listening over the
J., t, miter what aUVHIl
.-ejiiiiiur ii" , e'iitsi'
els., may say In
further sn tous embarr. ss i u it to
i.iivernnii ni i e. v ,.Used
. '., .1 The longer this t - ensa -
longer this i-ens,
ii ... ......
iion.ii .iMi.i..".. ",:..- ,
ti...
.....1. ,rr!lUllll I Will III -I .1111 ll"'
l.mIml- to be a party to this uup.itr!
' in" .-,.i..
tUlll.1
conduct and thall refuse to say any
thing more on Hie subject except to as
sert again tho fait that vital Interests
of the Govt iniuent were connected here
In this cas". that we have been work
ing with the Government on this case,
that I have been III consultation this
morning again with high Government
otllclal-, who have urged that every
thing be done for the ike of the na
tional good to prevent this great harm
ll.tu.ii . . ,.,.., I,.,,, (',,...
Ueltlg none ti.' imi.hv. ..v.....n
eminent affairs
It Is not true that tno wires oi
Seymour Seymour were tappeu so
that the Hums Agency couni usien hi
I on tho conversation. The only listen
it,,. bv members ot tile police lie
pirtiinnt who have been legulatly as- j
signed to mis in". i "i "i' i"i in""
than two years. Any Information that
came over this wire was guarded with
Ihn s.iiiio scrupulous cine that all In
formation coining In this way Is guarded
habitually."
What I lie -Major Niilil,
The statement given out by Mayor
Mltchel vvas as follows:
I siinnlv want to add to what the
pollen Commissioner has said. As ho
I has told you. the District Attorney of
lllis cinniiy. i'ii" i- in'- net ""'i" "
olllcer for the prosecution of crime, has
stated that In bis Judgment the police
weio fully justllloil I rum Hie point or
I srw;rHr r," rta
loll Is valuable on that questluu. I no
opinion of the chairman of the couinil'
tee Is not valuable on that question, nor
is It authoritative.
"The Pollco Commissioner has told
you that there Is a national element
that euleied Into this Seymour case, Tim
Police Commissioner Ii'ih told jou that
the work In the Seymour case was in
cooperation with lepren'iitntlves of the
national Government that gives the
flat lie to what has been stated III that
statement from the lllltmore. Now In
order that the public may understand
tho icckb'ssness with which this matter
luiK been treated by tho Thompson com
mittee up to the present tlmo and tho
disregard shown for national Interests
1 wish to tell you this:
"Senator Thompson has been warned
I bv reiiresentatlvei of the national dnv
eruiuont that tha lutertnU ot the uuUotuU
The work of the Pollco Depart
ment during the recent strenuous
times has been of tho utmost
bftiellt to the Federal authorities.
1 could cltu ono oaso after another
to which they havo devoted tho
greatest energy und tho most
clear headed Intelligence. Tho
Federal and city authorities work
In cntlro harmony, and whllo I
do not feel myself free to deal
with names and cases, I can fltato
most positively that the Federal
Government Is Indebted in a great
ntimlicr of Important cases to the
Pollco Department for most valu
able and elllclotit assistance.
Government are vitally concerned In
these cai-es of telephone supervision.
That warning I myself supplemented
In an Interview with Senator Thompson
about a week ago anil again yesterday,
and pointed out to him that theso cases
handled by (he local pnllcu forcu in many
instances havo this national significance.
"Now treason to a Government Is de
nned In the law as giving aid and com
fort to the enemies of a Government or
a nation. To deliberately destroy one
"l ini'.-'l. IJUmum t'ilmil3 in ine
hands of Government to detect and pre-
nn u- uperauuiw oi jmuiic enemies i
brand as treachery. Kvtry repetition
of these attempts tu disclose the opera
tions or the city pollco force and of th
Government, made In the interest of
self-advertisement, constitutes a cumu
lative act of tieachery toward the UnltvJ
States."
Senator Thompson came out of ono of
his committee's executive eshlons to
mako a retort to the Mayor. It was
this: "When the Mayor of tho village
of Mlddleport gets Into a nasty ipjnrrel
ho hires a hall and tells them about
It. He does not call upm the national
Government to divert attention or to
tight Ills
quarrel for him,
Mlddleport Is the Senator's home town.
Hut that did not tltilsh the Mayor's
lenurks. Standing In the reporters'
room in City Hall at noon the Mayor
adili'il
"The Thompson committee has been
going along blatantly for several mouth.
assuming that it Is the only agency ny , , , wltnt.s, Maml noxt Tuesday,
which the truth can be disclosed. They ...
have been demanding that all tie facts! 10. One of the witnesses who had access to the .Seymour olllces testified
be made known. Now here Is a ca-ui,hat he had .-old tho Hums ngeney a telephone tapping machine, nnd that He
where we are willing to have them made ... .
known and they shut the door. Hut It ' had heard In the District Attorneys olllco thnt this Instrument hud been
will come out. If not through ono door used by Hums to tap the Seymour wire. Rajn,iund J. Hums denied this,
then through another." I
"Did you mean Senator Thompson In
your remarks about treachery0 the
Mavor was asked, and he replied:
I will be more direct Any one who
eontlnuailv asseverates that the national
,kes It Increasingly dilll. u
nit for the
' I " I' I 1 1 1 1 II 1 1 l II .11.1. 1111- lU e IIIHV-IIL
warned him on Its own Initiative, and "lur pri.iiuseu iu cu i.u...i....w..v
asked me to do so, though that wasn't Woods as tho ilrst witness. Heforo ho
necessary. Continued discussion of these 0,lnu. down town he took Issue with tho
things Tieeomes cumulative and adds to' . i.,tutiaiin,. for
tin. dltllcultv of the liiivernment nn.licl, administrations Justification for
the city In detecting crime. tapping the Seymour wire namely the
"Tills whole thing began with a cer-1 aliened theft of cables and war orders
tain small group of people who con -
; "V
. yi
- - -haVnO-.e., a
These People made
i commercial motive. These people made
It appear too that supervision was not
,mt lna, wlH caK( ()f ,,,.
' "i Instance. The M-ymonr c.tp has
1 ''"'" cleared up i lie facts In tne other
. pase nave never o-en iniioi' Known iu
the nubile They will come out, however,
. .... ....
M ien i iro on l ie sianii on iiiesu.iv
. .. .1 e .1 n.i ....
If they don't come out before the Thomp-
son roimnltjee they will come out miiii'L,,,, ,K. nmmiitte.!'s first executive ses
other way.' slou, Senator Thompson made a long
Sotim one tol. the Mayor at this point I , ,, , , w ,,e said that Hie
nai M iia or i nompso , mu, rem .rK-i ; nl,K.ils of the wire tapping In
the night before la-1. "U ell 1 am hack. U.rn (, rM(.mVl, ., vhrd
on the front p'tge
" jii
ment on this was :
"Theie are a gieat many ways of gel
ling on the front page. You can stand I
out there lit City Hall Park and let
people throw intten tomatoes at you ; i
that s one way.
..,, ....
LONDON CHANGES TIME TO-DAY.
lliialiM'sx r.icliitiiKea HI tn Ailnpl , 1. uner experleli.e than members of this
,. ,, 1 ... I committee. The course that that law
l,.,llul.l SimIi.ii PI.,,,. "d'l lake If It weie to be considered
I.oNPus, May 19 The Stock Hx- the Legislature now would be subject
change, the ll.iltlc Hxiii.inge, Hie Ma-k to a gnat deal of debate III order to
Lane Coin exchange, tho met.i1 '-1 know all lint Interests which might be
changes and Lloyd's will all conform to affected,
the new daylight saving plan, which goeH i
Into fleet to-morrow night. Time will mlitee in lie I'aiilliui,
close at 1 o'clock, an hour earlier than!11"' ro 1,1,1 ,V' 'L1,"' 2SM
f
a'Jb't., bus;nessf"rl"" "MUm "MHntha" "nM know-
Til.' sec retary of the initio Kxchango I ,,,K," """" b,,M,,";,s ,r
s lid tlrit the N'evv Yorli it en nt u ilx '''""i''"' luteicsts In any way and so far
"'iL' Have not Involved any Interests know-
change, but no trading after hours would
be permitted In the exchange.
bouses,
olllces
earlier than at present.
NORWEGIANS FOR ARBITRATION
Hill In r.iifnrei' It Inspired by
l.iM'knul A ii mi it pen, pi, i.
Special Cable Detpalch to Tiu: Srs
Ciiiiistiania. May 19 A bill for com.
pu'miry arbitration Is being considered
by the Government In order to pievent
tho lockout of all union workmen on
Juiw 3, which has heen announced by
the employers Association,
There Is n feeling here that If the
lookout went Into effect It might pie.
rlpltate an Interna! conflict of laige pro-
liortloni.
Letter on Stationery of Seymour & Seymour
Tallies With Cable Message to
Morgan & Co.
DISTRICT ATTORNEY GIVES OUT
CORRESPONDENCE INTRODUCED
Burns Agency Denies It Was Used to Install Device in
Offices of Accused Lawyers Detective's Son
Refuses to Testify.
The Inventisation yesterday of telephono wiretapping ceittrlns about th
Thompson legislative commltteo developed theso leading features:
1. District Attorney Swann produced copies ot papers alleged to liav
been taken frhi tho ofllces of Seymour & Seymour, lawyers, whuso telephone
wires wero tapped at tho reaucst of J. P. Morgan & Co. Among them was
a letter addressed to a manufacturer of munition supplies containing Infor
mation which tullled almost verbatim with a cnblo order from tho Morgan
branch firm ln Paris, received In New York two days beforo tho dato ot
the letter.
2. Judge Swann produced a letter addressed to Frederick Seymour from
this namo supply manufacturer. This letter eald that when certain negotia
tions began between tho manufacturer nnd Seymour & Seymour "It was
dearly understood that you wero tho confidential representative of J, I'. Mor
gan & Co."
3. The District Attorney said ho had a copy of correspondence between
this manufacturer nnd Seymour & Seymour rclatlvo to tho payment of com
missions, In which. Judge Swann said, It appeared that tho manufacturer had
repudiated a contract because he learned that ho had been led falbely to be
lieve he was dealing with the confidential ngont of the Morgan llrm.
4. The committee was Informed of tho manner In which tho Hums nsoncy
Installed iletoctaphoncs ln Seymour & Seymour's ofllces. It appeared that
the request to the Kqultabln Hulldlns management that the Hums people
be allowed to Investigate happenings ln the Seymour offices camo from the
Morgan llrm, through Martin F-gan.
6. Frederick Seymour and tho three war brokers who had desk room In
tho Seymour olllces denied tho alleged collusion between any one connected
with them und on employee tn tho Morgan llrm,
C. The controversy between Senator Thompson nnd the city administration
went on throughout tho day. Senator Thompson declared there were no
national Interests Involved In tho case. Tho Mayor maintained the contrary.
7. United States Attorney Marshall issued a statement, ln which ho said
that the .Seymour ca?o was ono that ho knew to bo of interest to tho Federal
authorities for somo tlmo past, and "involves national Interests." Ho also
said that the publication ot tho facts at this tlmo "would bo must regrcttabln
from the standpoint of the administration of Federal Justice."
5. Police Commissioner Woods on tho stand before the Thompson committee
described the general police practice of wiretapping. Its necessity, usefulness
and protection from abuse. The Commissioner said he had approved of the
tapping of thp Rev. William Farrell's telephonu wire, but the committee de
cided not to go Into this phase of the case until next week.
9, Mayor Mltchel announced that nil facts of the wiretapping In connection
with the recent Charities investigation
THOMPSON HAS SESSION
BEHIND CLOSED DOORS
The Thompson committee was In execu-
tlve session most of the day. The Sen
... tl .n,,l.ln,l.
, f .... .,.,. , na ...... .,.
governmental Interest In the casL by
asserting that he did not believe tho
.. 1 I.l I It.. ...nl...
1H""' w,rc J""""1'"' "'nu
, tallied that there wero no national Is-
sues Involved.
The result was a continuation of bitter
i cimlniveisy between the Mayor, tho Po-
, ,K ,'(,m,-slouer and Corporation
, ,t..i ii,,,..i.. ,, ,,,, u , , mu Sen:. tnr
. .,,,..,,. ,i i.iu f.,n,,n...,u m tin nther
. iiwt..i. ...... - -
.. i i,,,...,. ,iu.
until
Mlll'll luimiiuvn i, i. inij
.. . eK. In tlit. ii f lerti.inu. A limit tinotl.
slu.h interests that he would not hear
I the facts In public until ho had heard
j them behind closed doors.
"The committee III relation to the so-
called wire tapping subject has Insisted
liiioti knowing Dm facts as It went
I along," said Senator Thompson. "Tim
i subject Is one new to the public, and tho
j..ition as to what laws should be
I n.is-cd dlstuib tin. minds of men of
1 ""f.V "v,.
1 think nu have brought out the
ink
olTlcluU
mil otlins who wish to testify must wait
until tbo committee und.ihtnn.ls the
facts, It Is not a question of lefusing
then, perm sslon to PMIfy but only post
polling It."
Winn Mr. Thompson said that no
national question was Involved CiilK)ia
tlon Counsel Hardy, who was bailing
across the table walling tor htm to
finish, said '
"I wish to protest In behalf of the c.ty
agalni-t any further examination Into the
Seymour case, because a national qms
tlon Is Involved, I say theto Is a na
tional question Involved, and I defy you
In show the contrary "
"I don't have to," retailed Senator
Thompson, "but I will my that this com
mittee Is able to bundle the case and
would bo given to the public when
to make its Investigation, It can bo
depended uiin to do the tight thing.
Theie should be no Insinuation Horn nny
quarter tegardlng the partying on of this
Invitdlgation because of Government ot
national questions, especially as theie
aro no facts to warrant the insinua
tion. Wo will take up questions as they
come, but It's a funny thing to tne that
no Government official knew anything
about this matter until the last few
days. Now ibis committee will go into
i xecutlv e session."
FAIR PLAY DKMAS'I)
IS MADE IiV HARDY
V hen tho exicutlve ces-..m lagan,
early In tho uftirnoon, the i aimitltiu
room wns crowded, expert, ug ,i luithec
clash between the .ommittee and the city
.idmlnistiation Just befue he left th
loom, ,ui hour lielore. Mr. Hardy ri
pened his demand t at Commissioner
Woods be heard.
"Wo want a fair Hlmwibiwn,'' he aid,
"and we are going to get it
Hoth John S. Seymour and his brother,
l'ledftli k, as well as D. H Phillips, Will
mm llil.s, Jr, .Moi timer Milt.ev and
William D, Will, all of whom havo
desk loom In the Sejmour ollaes, were
ready to tell their ..tones to tho com
mitten in (-cent. Judge Swann came
along and took charge of tho investiga
tion In the committee room. All of the
Seymour principals were calli.l In to-
geiner with c. T. Coley. opi rating man
ager of the i:.iiltabln lliilldlng. and Harl
lett Smtlli of !,: Hroa.lwn.v, a mamifac
Hirer of delectaph.ine
The lift lntlnmt..in of the ttend of
the executive Inquiry i.ime fnm Judge
Swann, when he emerged from tho coni
ntitlen room with a i oil of lupus. He
i-.ild he had tequesteil the Mosgan tlrin
to furnish htm all the papers wh.ch tha
Hums agency was supposed i,, havo ob
tained flout the Se iiiMUr off,. is. Judgo
ej III
7h
fi'.IIIII S.lHl
This is a letter vflileh bin-.s Ihn klirna.
lure '(). It Phi!iip.v' a is addressed to
the Humboldt Flbu. Coinp.inv , Humboldt,
Tenn., dated Fein ti.uy i, pur,, lm the let
ter paper of Seiii"iir A Se.v mour Mr.
Phillips was called in and at tlist denied
that It was his slgnatuie Thin he said
be might have witttni it l. Phillips
is a ciiiuml.ssloiur Interested m vauoifj
munilion contracts it is at-nned by
ono of the iiiiinuf.ii'tuieis that he rep
lesented himself to be the lOi.tldentla!
Ifpie-eiltative of J. P. Morgan & Co.
and that lm was m enter into pi earn niry
negotiations beforo the in u ittactiirer
tin illy tug. dialed with the Mm gnu Him,
A man named Do Wilt, who Is asso
chted with Phillips, ivax . 1 1 1 u I In u.j
ward, lie did not know that Phillips
had denied the slgii.iinie and be n cog
nized It at once. lie had a distinct
recollection that Phillips bad dictated
the letter to him nnd tb.it Phillips had
i-lgned It In De Witt's ptei-en, e"
The letter follow s
Feb 4. ISIti
Diiaii MR. .HtaiM.i. It occuirid lo
tin- that sou would like to bear tint
latest from tho "Grapev ne" and beg
tu quote fimn th.ir l.tt.r as fnllnwr
"The latest Infoim itlou we ha e i i
cardliu; cotton llulita otfcied ti. 11,, i-
