THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWEXT Y-SEV KXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOEXIX, ARIZOXA, SATURDAY MORNING, MAY 20, 1910
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., XO. 2
WIFE'S PHOTO
IN RODRIGUEZ
QEATH CLOTHES
ROOSEVELT TALKS ON
PREPAREDNESS
TRUE AMERICANISM
US IRE
- f
W i f e-m u r d c r e r Gamely
Faces Executioner, Bids
Everyone Good-by and
Calmly Ascends the Fatal
Stair-wa y
SECOND HANGING
SINCE STATEHOOD
NEW VENIRE FOR
THE ORPET JURY
I
I W AUK EG AN, Ills., May 19. A ,
new venire of 100 men to report
I tomorrow summoned in the case I
I of Orpet today. At the close of
; today's sussion of Judge Donnel- 1
ly's court, 375 venirmen had been I
! examined and only three remained
! :n the jury box. Acceptance of I
j the latter was onlv tentative. Will I
I H. orpet. the defendant, is ac-
j f used of the murder of Marion
Lambert. B high school student,
j who had been his sweetheart.
Former President at Detroit
Urges Thorough Military
Preparedness for United
States and Pleads Also for
Ti ne Americanism
PCnDRPIf'OV
w. ulu ummm
TUEAUSTRI1S
Five Years Almost to a Day
Since Francisco Rodri
guez Was Condemned, He
Pays Penalty for ('old
blooded Crime
El
N
BY R. P. HOLLIDAY
FLORENCE, May 19. With the
wind blowing a gale outside and great
clouds of dust surging against the
walls of the penitentiary. Francisco H.
Rodriguez, convicted wife murderer,
calmly walked up the stairs to the
death room, took his place on the
gallows without a tremor and was
dropped through the floor into eter-
ity. He entered the death chamber
nt eight minutes after three o'clock,
the trap was sprung two minutes
later and fourteen and a half min
utes afterward he was pronounced
dead by the prison physician.
It was a very nervous little group
of men whi wended their way from
Warden Sims' office toward the
death chamber. There was little
chatting in the group; rather they
walked along with eyes on the ground.
As they were admitted to the death
house Rodriguez calmly stood behind
the bars of the tier of cells which
had been his home for five long
years of uncertainty. He gave back
glance for glance. ( Hitside of a
tightening of the lips he exhibited no
sign that he realized in a few min
utes he was to face the group in an
entirely different role.
As soon as the witnesses had taken
their places in the death room, War
den Sims and several of the guards
who had been especially close to the
condemned man. took their last leave.
Kodriguez stuck out his hand with
out a tremble, and with a hearty grip
shook hands with each of them.
"Well, Frank, let's get it over
with," said Warden Sims, and Rod
riguez assented In a cheerful tone.
The guards quickly strapped his
hands behind him and he ascended
the stairs without aid. It was hut
the work of seconds to show him
where to stand on the trap and to
bind his legs with a heavy strap.
He was dressed In a Heat blue suit,
with a pin stripe pattern. In his
right buttonhole he Wore two carna
tions. Just before his arms were
strapped he sat down and took off
his shoes, saying that he did not
want to die with them on.
"Have you anvthing to say?" said
Warden Sims. With a smile which
lighted his whole counteannce, Rod
riguez replied, "No-o, there's noth
ing to say," and then he faltered, but
only for a moment. "Only, every
one goodbye." And once again the
smile lighted up his gaze.
The priest who had been his con
stant companion for twenty-four
hours prior to the execution, extended
a crucifix to Rodriguez' lips
calmly bent over and kissed it
black cap was adjusted, some one
shouted "All right," an electric but
ton was pushed as I signal for the
SI
ITS PISS
SHIPPING BILL
n-
(Continued from Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 19 Filibuster
ing of Republican Leader Mann to
night prevented the democrats from
carrying out their plan to pass the ad
ministration, "hipping bill before ad
journment. Debate on the measure closed at four
o'clock this afternoon and three hours
later it was. ready for passage virtu
ally as reported by the committee, in
spite of persistent effort to amend it.
Representative Mann demanded teller
votes on many of the hundred or more
amendments offered bv republicans
and when a final vote on the measure
Uself was about to be taken, he In
sisted that the formality of reading
th engrossed bill be observed, as the
bill had not been engrossed there was
nothing to do but adiourn. The vote
probably will be reached early tomor
row afternoon. '
Early in the day while the house
was in the committee of the whole, the
republicans succeeded In striking out
the section providing for the purchase
of ships by the government, but this
was restored by the house itself. The
on'y result of the strict party vote by
which the section was stricken out.
106 to 90, was to give the republicans
pan opportunity to cheer and laugh at
the discomfiture of the democrats over
the failure of their forces to be on
I hand to vote. Majority Leaders im
mediately sent out hurried calls for
members, and when the section again
was voted on it was restored by a vote
of 205 to 152.
Indieat'ons tonight were that the bill
would pass without vital amendment
bv almost a strirt party vote. Repre
sentatives Miller of Pennsylvania and
Moss of West Virginia, republicans,
snoke in behalf of the measure during
the day. indicating their intention to
vote for it. and on one occasion rep
resentaC.e Slayden. democrat, of
Texas, voted with the minoritv, but
few deserters on either side are ex
pected in the ;'inal vote.
Less than one-fourth of the bill had
been read when, by the special rule
under which the measure was being
considered, all debate was stopped at
four o'clock, most of the day having
U 1 been taken up by amendments offered
,j,hetby Representative Dennett, republican.
oi :ew on.
Three independent amendments
probably-will be offered tomorrow and
lol! calls demanded on them. One
would deny foreign built vessels the
M , light to
TWO HANGED FOR
BORDER MURDERS ,
I
BROWNSVILLE, May 19. j
lose Buenostrico and Melquaides t
Chapa, Mexicans, convicted of the j
murder of A. L. Austin and his !
! son Charles, in the Mexican border
raids last fall, were hanged today 1
today at 2:13 p. m., in the Cameron
I county Jail.
I The men were tied together, I
! hanged in a double trap and died !
I practically at the same time.
I They issued a joint statement in j
! which they thanked the public "for
i what they have done for us," and j
I both declared themselves innocent. !
I One hundred civil peace officers
; and thirty-five U. S. cavalrymen
I guarded the jail yard.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DETROIT, May 19 Colonel Theo
dore Roosevelt urged thorough military
preparation for the United States and
pleaded for true Americanism in two
addresses here today; discussed "social
justice" before the convention of the
Brotherhood of Kailway Trainmen, and
shook hands with several thousand
persons at a public reception in a down
town hotel, shortly before departing for
New York this evening.
The former president was greeted
enthusiastically everywhere lie ap
peared during his eleven-hour stay
here as honor guest of an American
day celebration. An unusual demon
stration occurred while he was deliver
ing his forenoon address at a theater,
when an elderly woman interrupted
bis expression of approval of universal
military service by crying out, "I have
two sons whom I offer."
"If everv mother would make the
same offer." the speaker replied, "there
would be no need for any mother to
send her sons to the front."
Speaking at a luncheon at the Detroit
Atheltic club, Mr. Roosevelt declared
that true Americanism "means unity of
the nation without regard to the lands
from which oar fathers came; without
regard to religious differences and
without regard to the different sections
of the country in which we live."
Rain prevented the colonel from ad
dressing a muss meeting at flrand
Circuit park. After an automobile tour
of the city, which Was preceded by his
address before the Brotherhood of
Railway Trainmen, Mr. Roosevelt re
turned to his hotel, where thousands
thronged the lobbies and stood outside
in the rain awaiting an opportunity to
get a glimpse of him. He spoke briefly
to the crowd within the hotel and
shook hands with all who could force
their way to him.
Mr. Roosevelt did not meet Henry
Ford, the local aul.miobile manufac
turer, although early in the day it was
the colonel's plan to visit Mr. Ford at
the hitter's factory-
In his address this morning Colonel
Roosevelt reiterated his opposition to
"all kinds of hyphenated American
ism," advocated universal military ser
vice based on universal training, and
declared that there must be an end to
"pork barrel" methods in international
relations and that we must stop talk
ing and get down to the business of
thorough preparedness if we nre "to
make this nation as strong as are its
convictions in reference to right and
wrong."
"We, through our representatives at
Washington," said Roosevelt, "have
absolutely refused, in the smallest de
gree, to prepare during these twenty
two months of world cataclysm."
Roosevelt declared that the Wilson
administration "has taken no step for
preparedness, and has done nothing
efficient to sustain our national rights."
"We must make this nation as
strong as are our convictions in ref
erence to right and, wrong," declared
Roosevelt. It little matters what our
ideals may be and what .'enlevements
we may hope for, if these ideals and
achievements cannot be reduced to ac
tion. A considerable part of the
strength of Mr. Ford in the primarjes,
and f the strength of the advocates of
half-preparedness at Washington,
comes from the fact that no real al
ternative of policy is offered with sin
cerity and fearlessness."
In urging universal military service
based on universal training, Roosevelt
Under Heavy Pounding of)
Austrian Artillery, Italian
Forces Compelled to With
draw Some Lines from the
Region of Trent
SLOW MOBILIZATION KEEPS
FUNSTON FROM MAKING
REALIGNMENT OF PATROL
operate either in the coast
wise trade of the I'nited States or itcjsaid he believed in it because it would
(Continued on Page Nine)
(Continued on Page Nine)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Under the heavy pounding of the
Austrian artillery, Italian forces have
been forced to withdraw from portions
of their lines in the region of Trent,
w hich had been bombarded for three
days. An official communication from
Rome admits the evacuation of the Ze
gnutorta position in the Lugarina
va'lev and. the upper Astico from
Monte Maggio to Sagliodaspio. The
Italians, however, have occupied fur
ther Austrian position in the Ailumello
zone, capturing prisoners, material and
provisions.
During the day the Germi.ns made
no infantry attacks from their newly
won positions on the left bank of the
Meuse. in the Verdun region, aeeord
'ng to Paris. The artillery stiuggle,
however, continues most violent on the
front of the AvdCourt wood, hill :'.04,
and Lc Mort Homme. The artillery
action has not been so great on the
right bank of the Meuse and in the
Woevre. '.Aeroplane bomb explosions
continue on both sides.
The Russians advance in the Cau
casus Heater is meeting with more
active Opposition from the Turks. Con
stantinople claims that attacks by the
Russians in the regions of Bitlis and
Haibrrt were repulsed. P-trograd re-
Krts only "insignificant encounters '
ali lie this entire front.
Lord Robert Cecil, Britisli minister
of war trade informs The Associated
Press that an agreement has been
reached between Great Britain and
Sweeden and that the tension between
tht- two countries over the shipping
questions and the seizure of mails has
lessened.
The entente allied submarine cam
paign against Herman shipping in the
Baltic sea continues, the sinking of the
Herman steamer Tarve by an under
water boat beirg announced from
Stockholm. All tin passengers and
crew of the French coasting steamer
Ma a we'-e lost when tnat vessel was
torpedoed and sunk in the Mediter
ranean May It, according to a Mur
n illeis dispatch.
rhe sentence of Jeremiah C. Lynch
of New York convicted of complicity
m the Dublin uprising has not been
confirmed, according to advices re
ceived bv the state departmen at
Washington from Ambassador Page in
London. The British government has
been asked to suspend the carrying
out of any punishment pending an in
vestigation of Lynch's case. The sen
tence imposed uion Lynch has not
been announced officially.
v
French Losing Heavily
BERLIN, May 19. (by wireless to
S.yvillel Heavy losses are being suf
fered bv the French at Verdun despite
the protection of their earthworks be
cause of the enormous numoer of
troops they have concentrated withir
a comparatively small area there, ac
cording to a correspondent at the Ver
dun front, quoted in the overseas
News Agency statement. French
prisoner;, says the correspondent de-
c'are that the desti action- wrought by
the Herman artillery is not only a
pelting among the troops on the firing
line but also among the reserve1;
loselv grouped in territory which the
erman guns are able to reach ef
ctively. v
The writer praises the bravery of the
reneh soldiers who face fire with the
utmost intrepidity and are continu
ously counter attacking.
THOUSAND MEN ADDED
TO BIG BEND PATROL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO. May 19. By the
first of the coming week almost 1000
men will be added to the border partol
in the Big Bend district where ban
dits raided Boquillas and Glenn
Snrinigs two weeks ago. General Fun
ston has given orders for the Sixth
Cavalry, commanded by Colonel Jos
eph A. Gaston, that arrived today at
Columbus, N. If. from service with
General Pershing's column to report
immediately at -Marfa, Texas. From
there this regiment will be appor
tioned to Sierra Blanca, Alpine and
Marathon.
Colonel Sibley is expected to reach
the border near Boquillas Monday and
soon afterwards Major Linghorne ;s
expected to arrive with his troops of
the Eighth Cavalry bringing to an end
the little expeditionary movement be
gun after the raid o:i Glenn Springs.
Brig. General Henry A. A. Greene
left here tonight for the border and
early in the coming week it is ex-
to take oath of allegiance in the regu
lar establishment. The number re
jected for disability was negligible
General Funston was still without ad
vice's today relative to the return of
American consuls from Mexico.
Late tonight, General Funston re
ceived a message from Colonel Sibley
saying the expedition which started
from Glenn Springs ten days ago was
coming out of Mexico. Major l,ang
horne with two troops of cavalry has
penetrated to Cerro Blanco, VtS miles;
from Boiiuillas.
Having rescued the Americans taken
Arizona and New Mexico
Guard Not on Hand
Promptly and Makes Dis-
' appointing Showing in
Arms and Equipment
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 19. General
Funston's re-alignment of the border
patrol is being delayed, waf depart
ment officials said today, by slow
mobilization of the Arizona and New
Mexico National Guard and by the
disappointing showing in arms and
equipment of some of the guard com
panies that have reported for service.
Although it has been ten days since
President Wilson called out the Texas,
Arizona and New Mexico guardsmen
for patrol dutv along the border, their
far
iiisuuer ny uie i.ieiin ,-Mi.-ngs oai Ults -. , ;
, ., ,.1, , i , i mobilization and assignment
..... '7 . from complete. The Texas companies
cause of scarcity of water and forage. I . ,H lv ,,, in ,h nlher
J IMUIIUtU pvw....7,
I two states the call has not met with
! as quick a response as officials ex-
pected. In addition, so many c-om-i
panies in all three states have been
found to be below their proper
strength that the war department
now expects the total guardsmen pro-
Coionel Sibley decided to return. His
message stated the troops would start
back as soon as he could collect scat
tered detachments of Troop A which
were some 15 miles in advance of the
main body.
The message also contained a sup
plemental report on the brush with the
Mexican bandits a few days ago. This
pected the militia will be ready to takej report gives the wounded as four and
its assignment in the Brownisville dis-i captured as two and the capture of
trict. Out of the 4,000 guards who re-j ion rifles. One of the wounded Is a
ported for service in this state, only j son of the Carranza commender at
'iftv-five failed to respond to the call Sierra Majadas.
HE TAPPING
PROBE BRINGS
NEW SENSATION
LIFE IF LYNCH
SHED BY PLEft
9F IB I B
SPtY ROOSEVELT IS GOING TO
WRITE REPUBLICAN PLATFORM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire ' resentative of the progressive national
CHICAGO, May 19. An order for committee.
ldO.OOO campaign buttons bearing an I secretary O. K. Davis in a statement
Am rioan flag and the inscription, laaued .said
Americanism ana Koosevelt, was
given today for use during the Pro
gressive national convention in Chi
cago. The order was given by a rep-
' It baa been boldly asserted by cer
tain republican leaders that they are
i going to let Mr. Roosevelt write their
; party platform, l lake it that what
Seven New Bishops Chosen
By Methodist Conferences:
Republican A. P. Leased, Wire
SARATOGA SPRINGS, N. Y., May
19. Seven new names appeared on the
roll of bishops of the Methodist Epis
copal church tonight. Four. M. S.
Hughts of Pasadena. Cal.; William F.
Olihcm of New York; Franklin Ham
iltcn of Washington, U. C, and,Charles
1 ! .Mitchell of Chicago, were elected
by Ihe general conference dcring tha
day and tonight.
The others, Thomas Nicholson of
-w York, Herbert Welch of Dela-
i these gentlemen mean is that they arc
going lo have the platform written out
j ry the colonel concerning American
I ism and preparedness and to commit
to this program, while at
me they seek to have thei
se'ect as their nominee
me other man than the one whose
1 aggressiveness and fovce have made
Oldham were chosen, the former with these things the paramount issues of
.'.69 and the latter with 579 the larg- the dt-y."
est polled for any candidate. Mr. ; The progressive rational committee
Hami'ton who was third failed to gain will meet in Chicago June 5.
on the ballot. Others were voted fori Secretary Davis assumed charge to
as follows: , iiiy of'the plans for the party national
l)r. Ernest G Ric.iardson of Brook- convention which will be held at the
lj"n who received 250 and Dr. B. S. Auditorium
Tipple of Madison, IS. J., who received "Our principal difficulty thus far is
twenty-six. to find seats for those who want to
As the voting proceeded during the attend oar convention " said Secretary
day, Charles E. Locke of Los Angeles: Davis. "Most of the states have elected
J.i lice. StansfleM of Indianapolis, and a double number of delegates while
Robert E. Jones of New Orleans, a ne- several have chosen four times the
ware, Ohio, and Adna W. Leonard of ero candidate, retired, and the support number of delegates fixed 1 the of
Seattle, Wash., were chosen in the i
carllei balloting.
Dr. Hughes was chosen on tho
iwelflh I allot with a total of 519. Then
a deadlock continued until the fif
teenth, on which Dr. Mitchell and Dr.
coming to
he wa
shifted to the leaders. ficial call.''
.s a result of the election, two -Is Colonel Roosevelt
brothers, Bishop Edwin II. Hughes the Chicago convention'.1
and Dr. Matt S. Hughes, who was asked.
elected today, will be members of the' -Not that I know of," said Secre
board of bishops. tary Davis.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK, May ttf Disclosures,
developments and charges came in
ranid succession today in the Thomp
son legislative committee's inquiry
inte the wire tapping activities of the
New York . police. After hours of
verbal exchanges between State Sen
ator George F. Thompson, chairman
of the committee, and municipal of
ficers. Police Commissioner Arthur
Woods was permitted to take the
stand to attempt to justify the wire
tui ping practice.
Earlier in the day when the con
troversy between Mayor Mltchel and
Senator Thompson had reached an
acute stage, the mayor accused the
senator of "Cumulative treachery" to
the I'nited States because the com
mittee chairman insisted on going on
with his inquiry after Mr. Mitchel had
protested that to do so might involve
the federal government in grave inter
national complications, in connection
with munitions contracts. Senator
Thompson asserted that the United
States was in no way involved. He
was supported in. this contention by
District Attorney Swann. This phase
was complicateel tonight when United
Slates Attorney H. Snowden Marshall
Republican A. P. Leased Wire"!
WASHINGTON, May lS.-.'.mnas-sador
Page at London cabled the state
department tonight that the sentence
of Jeremiah C Lynch, the naturalized
American convicted of complicity in
the Dublin uprising, had not been con- I
firmed, but that in accordance with
instructions from Secretary Lansing I
the British government had been asked
to suspend the infliction of any pun
ishment pentling an investigation.
Until this message came there had
vided will not be more than S.OuO and
probably a few hundred less. When
the call was issued it was depended
on to add 3,600 men to the border
patrol.
So far, General Funston has report
ed only in a general way on the
National Guard mobilization, but a
fuller report is expected early next
week, officials hope that by that
time the re-assignment of troops
along the border will have been com
pleted. It is considered likely here that re
alignment will include withdrawal of
the American side of the expeditions
under Colonel Sibley and Major
J Langhorne, which crossed in pursuit
'of the Big .Bend raiders. Their mis
sion is regarded as virtually accom
I plished, the bandits in that region
apparently having been dispersed and
the Americans captured at Boquillas
rescued. A Carranza command "mov
ing from Saltillo also is expected to
do much toward relieving the Big
Bend situation.
General Funston sent a brief report
on the killing of Sergeant Harry Fur
man of the Twenty-third infantry,
but gave no details beyond saying he
was shot on the Mexican side of the
border.
The state department's dispatches
today from Mexico City indicated that
the strike of railway employes that
has paralyzed traffic in a large sec-
! intit Rpiimtitinn of train service
formed President Wilson last night nlh fr,,m a.nnn ,M Mis!1r,tches
oeen no aennne assurance mae 'wtlon of tne capital might soon be ad-
was anve. renaior oouniiaii in
f outh
s.-iv
of Lynch in New York that he was cia,s thlnk the strike may have (ie.
sentenced to be shot at midnight, New , ,ayed arrivaI at the border of some
York time. Secretary Lansing, at the of tne American consols ordered
president's direction despatched at j there for a conference on the general
once instructions to Ambassador Page ' vl,., sn
to seek a reprieve. This was done at
9 o'clock but it was feared the appeal
might be too late.
Early today the state department re-
Late tonight Secretary Baker re
ceived another report from General
Fupnston regarding the killing of
Furman. It said the sergeant had
Zcjnatorta Evacuated
ROME. May I'M via London) The
Italian official communication issued
here today admits the evacuation by
tin Italians of Zegnatorta On tne La-
;arita valley south of Trent), and also
f the line from Monte Maggio to Sa
gliodaspio between the Tarragnola
valley and the upper Astico (south-
ist of Trent), after several days of
iolei t artillery bombardments.
ceived a garbled code message from ,een found dead on the Mexican side
the ambassador transmitting a report 0f tne border and that General Ga-
from the American consul at Dublin.
The report, dated yesterday and evi
dently forwarded before Mr. Page re
ceived Secretary Lansing's message,
vira, the Carranza commander at
Juarez, claimed a Mexican customs
guard had killed him in self-defense.
i General Funston promised a fuller re
issued a statement declaring "any. gald Lynch hael- been trienl by field port later, but said it will probably be
publication of the facts in the cnse-i court martial yesterday. An omis
at this time would be most regrettable sion made the cablegram unintelligible,
from the standpoint of the adminls- but apparently the consul was report-
MRS. M'LEAN IS DEAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE May 19. Mrs Emily
Nelson Ritchie McLean, wife of Donald
McLean, of Nejiv York, past president -
general, of the Daughters of American
revolution died at a. hospital here late
today. She was born in Frederick, Md.,
57 years ago and came of a distin
guished ancestry.
tration of federal justice."
Mr Woods, in his testimony failed
to make any disclosures regarding an
international plot.
The greater part of the day was
spent by the committee in secret ses
sion. Liter today after the occu
pants of the offices of Seymour and
Seymour had been examined by Dis
trict Attorney Swann, it was an
nounced that the committee was satis
fied no crime had been committed by
tht Seymours or the other men who
share.', their offices. A few minutes
later a public inquiry into the mo
tives that impelled the police to tap
the wire leading to the Seymours
offices was begun.
Commissioner Wootls was called to '
the stand in the open inquiry after
witnesses had testified that William
.T. Burns of the Burns Detective
Agency, and his son, -Sherman, had
engaged a room adjoining the Sey
mour offices and caused the instal
lation of telephonic devices. It al
ing that either execution or sentence
was to take place at daybreak today.
Ambassador Page will inquire into
impossible ever to learn just
happened.
what
Policing Chihuahua
eOLUMBUS, N. M., May 19. Prep
arations for the policing of Chihua-
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Two)
PATROL PRISONER SAYS WAS
Wm K VILLA BANDITS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MARATHON, Tex., May 19. One of
the prisoners captpred in Monday's
fight near Nantaita, Coahuilla, be
tween a small detachment of troop A
Eighth cavalry under Lieutenant Cra
mer and the Boquillas raiders turns
out to be a son of the Carranza
-------- - -- - I couuuaiKici oi umit p WIJHMi
ready had been announced by the lis-1 inirango, who alleges he was made
prisoner by the bandits when the lat-
(Continued on Page Two)
PROGRESSIVES TO MEET
TODAY IN DENVER
I I
DENVER, May 19. Progressive ;
j leaders were here tonight for the
state convention which meets to- j
morrow to elect delegates to the j
national convention in Chicago
June n. and outline plans for the
fall campaign. The central com-
j mittee met today and perfected ar- I
! rangements for the convention. A
resolution was adopted providing !
! for sending twenty delegates to
Chicago, each with half a vote.
The state central committee con- I
i lirmed the recent temporary ap- I
! pointment by the national execu-
i tive committee of Ben Griffith, of I
j Grand Junction, as national com-
I mitteeman.
The convention will lie called to I
I order at 10 o'clock by Clarence P. !
Dodd, state chairman.
D n
Stealing Horses To Get New
Mounts For Villa Bandits
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PRESIDIO, Tex., May 19. (by auto
mobile to Marfa) Placido Villanueva,
who was reported killed in a fight with
Colonel Telesforo Dominguez near
Ojinaga several weeks ago, is no only
alive but has joined in active ban
ditry with Jose Chavez, another well
known outlaw.
The first news of Villaneuva's new
activities came from the ranch of Buck
Poole, where ten horses were carried
off. This was followed by news of a
ter raided Sierra Mojada about six
weeks ago and was in conseuenca
forced to accompany them to Boquil
las and Glenn Springs. This informa
tion was contained in a message re
ceived tonight from Major Langhonio
dated yesterday at El iPno, to Cap
tain G. A. Wieczorek of the 127th
coast artillery here. It was men
tioned also that Lieutenant Cramer's
command wounded two bandits and
captured four prisoners in the fight.
The Sierra Mojada prisoner, whose
name is not given, was one of the.
four caught. The bandits left behind
in their flight ten Mauser rifles which
Lieutenant Cramer secured.
Major langhorne mentioned in his
message that he has his troops at
Sierra Blanca, Los Alamos and El
Pinto, the latter place being his head-
sixty miles from here, w ith the cap- quarters. No mention is made in the
ture of meire horses and supplies. But message as to the whereabouts of
Villaneuva has not confined his dep- Colonel Sibley, but it is supposed
redations to tlie American side of the ; that he is camped at Sierra Blanca
Rio Grande, as a Mexican rancher, with the Fourteenth cavalry.
Jose Rofriguez confessed to the au- i Carta&a Hageman of the quarter-
thorities at Ojip.aga today that nine ; master department, is expected to re-
mules and three horses had been taker.
irom his place.
This same band of thieves took part
in the Glenn Springs raid, according to
port here tomorrow from Columbus
to take charge of the motor truck
division of the expedition.
It is given out officially that natives
raid on the ranch of Felipe Valdez, ' larger operations.
all obtainable evidence, and it is feared i have informed Major Langhorne at
here that horse stealing is the means -t El Pinto that one hundred Carranza
adopted for getting new mounts for I troops have left Sierra Mojada for
J the north.
