vs&&&2t j
"&-.Tl J -vrv- - ic vJ?
, -- . -
'
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FATT, WHERE THEY MAY
Vol. XXI.
GHIGAGO, MAY 20s 1916
No. 35
"" Ssvr
Hhbf .H x BA. fBBBbB ZIBBBBk 1 ESBBBBBBr r BMT - -JW X4"CSfc-BSr -A . K. .
Everything Strongly Indicates that "Big Bill" Mayor William
Hale Thompson Will Unhorse and Succeed the Hon. Roy
0. West as the Illinois Member of the Republican
National Committee.
HIS HONOR, THE MAYOR TOIL GIVE AN ELABORATE LOVE FEAST
THIS EVENING AT THE HOTEL LA SALLE ALL OF THE DELE
GATES FROM THIS STATE TO THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CON
VENTION HAVE BEEN INVITED TO BE ON HAND. IT IS EX
PECTED THAT THE HONS. CHARLES S. DENEEN AND ROY O. WEST
WILL BE PRESENT AND STICK THEIR POLITICAL FEET UNDER
THE BANQUET TABLE.
THE FIGHT FOR THE NOMINATION FOR PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES ON THE REPUBLICAN END OF IT SEEMS TO BE NARROW
ING DOWN BETWEEN COL. THEODORE ROOSEVELT AND ASSO
CIATE JUSTICE HUGHES OF THE UNITED STATES SUPREME
COURT.
HON. FRED W. UPHAM HAS RUSHED OUT IN THE OPEN IN FAVOR
OF THE FORMER ROUGH RIDING PRESIDENT, THEREBY PARTI
CIPATING IN A FIGHT BETWEEN HIMSELF AND THE BOOSTERS
OR SHOUTERS OF HON. LAWRENCE Y. SHERMAN. -
FORMER GOV. WILLIAM SULZER OF NEW YORK CITY, IS MORE THAN
LIKELY TO BECOME THE PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE OF ALL
REFORM FORCES INCLUDING THE PROHIBITIONIST AND THE
AMERICAN PARTY.
The strong political tide seems to be
running strongly in favor of "Big
Bill" Mayor William Hale Thompson
who is proving himself to be a political
fighter from a way back, for be is still
holding his own against the followers
of the Hon. Charles S. Deneen and
the supporters of Edward J. Brundage,
and if all signs do not fail nor fade
away, ho will unhorse and succeed the
Hon. Roy O. West as the Illinois mem
ber of the Republican National Com
mittee. In this connection it must be
said to the credit of Mayor Thompson
that he understands just bow to get
up close to the wisest and the biggest
of the politicians and it appears that
at all times he totes his lucky white
rabbit's foot around in the left band
corner of his vest pocket, for this even
ing he will give a grand love feast at
the Hotel LaSalle, in honor of all the
delegates from this state to. the Repub
lican National Convention, aside from
the delegates many of the leading poli
ticians from all over the state will be
present and it is expected that the
lions. Charles S. Deneen and Roy O.
West will be in evidence and stick
their feet under the banquet table.
For everybody who amounts to any
thing will want to be on band just to
see what will be pulled off at the love
feast or fish dinner whicb is supposed
to cost fifty dollars per plate.
Col. Theodore Roosevelt and asso
ciate Justice Hughes of the "United
States Supreme Court are both play
ing their strongest cards for the nomi
nation for President of the United
States and at this distance from the
scene of action the fight for that great
honor seems to be narrowing down be
tween those two eminent and distin
guished sons of the Grand Old Party.
This week the followers and boosters
of Hon. Lawrence Y. Shearman for the
nomination for President of the United
States, have been engaged in holding
forth red hot coals of fire upon the
Hon. Fred. W. Upham, for rushing out
in the open in favor of the nomination
of the former rough riding President,
evidently Mr. Upham feels that Col.
Roosevelt is the best and the strongest
man to make a home run and beat
President Wilson in beating it back to
the White House, at Washington, D. C.
Our highly esteemed friend, ex-governor
William Sulzer of New York City,
who was a member of Congress for
eighteen years from the 10th Congres
sional District, on the East Side of
New York City, who is one of the best
known and one of the most popular
men in this country, with the masses
of the people, for he has always la
bored and fought in their behalf, will
become the presidential candidate of
all the reform forces in this country,
which means that he will become the
standard bearer of the Prohibitionists
and the American Party, and it is safe
to say that at least several million of
his fellow American citizens will at
the proper time record their votes in
favor of his election to the Presidency
of the United States.
SKTRTS UP; STOCKINGS DOWN
STYLES FIT THE MARKET.
Manufacturers Pleased, Although.
Bit Surprised, Because Woman
Wants Both Garments Shorter.
Philadelphia, Pa. That skirts are
going up and stockings are going down
does not check underwear manufac
turers; in fact, they are pleased about
it, because materials are getting scarce.
Shorter skirts and shorter stockings
for women this summer is to be the
rule.
This fact was revealed at the open
ing meeting of the convention of the
National Association of Hosiery and
Vnderwcar Manufacturers, when manu
facturers expressed surprise- that wo
men with their skirts about half way
to their knees should at the same time
demand stockings almost as short as
Hum's half hose.
In these piping times of wax and
the highest cost of living it is really
enough to make the oldest hardened
summers blush with shame, ten thous
and times each day to behold the dear
ladies in their extraordinary effort to
undress themselves in every way, while
promenading up and down the most
prominent streets of Chicago. Editor.
HON. HOSEA W. WELLS REPUB
LICAN CANDIDATE FOR JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT.
At the April election, Judge Hosea
W. Wells, Republican candidate for the
Superior Court full term, to be voted
for at the Judicial election Monday,
June 5th, was elected as one of the
Judges of the Municipal Court and it
is not surprising to his numerous
friends to state that he has more than
made good in that position and the
voters throughout Cook county will be
honoring themselves in no small de
gree, by placing him on the Superior
Court bench.
THE SUMMER SCHOOL FOR
TEACHERS.
The Tuskegee Summer School is to bo
conducted this year as in former years.
Mr. E. C. Roberts, Director of the Aca
demic Department, is to conduct the
Summer School for the Institute.
Arrangements are being made to ac
commodate a large number of teachers.
The seventh annual session will be held,
beginning June 12th and extending six
weeks to July 21st, 191C.
Each year has marked a steady
growth in attendance and in the scope
of the courses offered. Last year 437
teachers were enrolled, representing
fifteen States. This list included
Jeanes Supervisors, Principals, city and
rural teachers, embracing many of the
most progressive teachers of the South
land. Courses are offered in the rcview"of
literary subjects, in advance studies in
general and special methods in educa
tion in business practice in sewing in
domestic science in canning in manual
training and in agriculture and school
gardening.
The instructors will be chosen from
the regular school faculty and will also
include Mr. A. H. Parker, Principal
Industrial High School, Birmingham
Alabama, and Mr. George L. Hayes,
Supervising Principal City. Schools,
Indianapolis, Indiana.
Each day at 11 o'clock Round Tables
will be conducted, or special addresses
will be given by men of reputation in
the educational world.
The list of speakers include:
Dr. George E. Haynes, Fish Univers
ity. Mrs. Booker T. Washington, Director,
Industries for Girls.
Major R. R. Moton, Principal-Elect,
Tuskegee Institute
Prof. Zebulon Judd, Head of Depart
ment of Education, Alabama Polytech
nic Institute, Auburn, Alabama.
Dr. J. H. Phillips, Superintendent
City Schools, Birmingham, Alabama.
Mr. William P. Fcagin, Superinten
dent of Education for Alabama, Mont
gomery, Alabama.
Mr. W. T. Sheehan, Editor, Mont
gomery Advertiser, Montgomery, Ala
bama Mr. James L., Sibley, Rural School
Agent of Alabama,
Mr. Jackson Davis, General Field
Agent, General Education Board.
Dr. James H. Dillard, President,
Jeanes Foundation.
The Sunday services will have spe
cial features. Means of recreation and
entertainment will be provided for all.
nin!Bjn?s &(SA'4fi9Kv &V4L3S'BIfk KL 4HHaNQc&iZHr
lV jMBHilMf i r ii 1i iflr tfn1! mi t A JiMTMBmi E BRcBn$3V
THE REV. HON. ARCHIBALD
JAMES CAREY, PH. D. D. D. DE
FEATED IN HIS RACE FOR BISH
OP. The latest grapevine lightning mes
sage from Philadelphia, Pa., is that the
Rev. Hon. Archibald James Carey, Ph.
D. D. D. was not elected as one of the
Bishops of the A. M. E. Church, he on
ly receiving 35 votes.
NEGRO FILES FOR LEGISLATURE.
Special to The Broad Ax Atty. W.
T. Francis has filed as a candidate for
the Legislature from the 38th Disk
comprising parts of the 8th and 12th
Wards of St. Paul, Minn.
NATIONAL NEWS NOTES.
Brief Bits of News and Comments
On Men and Women.
MUST FIX BOY'S FATE ' AS A
WHITE OR NEGRO.
Philadelphia, Pa. Is a boy, to every
appearance white, to have his life
shaped in the less opportune channels
of the Negro race; or,
Shall his lot be cast with the white
race, with tho risk that fatherhood
may disclose in him Negro blood?
To scientists, humanitarians, legal
experts and tho public at large, Judge
MacNeille, of juvenile court, pro
pounds these questions. Central figure
in the problem confronting the court
is a 13-year-old boy, whose history was
traced by probation officers, after he
had been reported for truancy.
Ho was found living with Negro
foster-parents, who adopted him in in
fancy. Assistant District Attorney Fox of
fered the suggestion that the boy be al
lowed to remain with his foster-parents.
A high-class Negro, he said, is
preferable to a low-grade white man.
If the boy has the right personal qual
ities, he said, his future is just as sure
HON. SAMUEL A. ETTELSON.
The able and eloquent Corporation Counsel of Chicago, who is readily conceded
to be the Prime Minister of the Thompson administration, who' is loyally
supporting Hon. Lawrence Y. Sherman for President of the United States.
if cast with the Negro race as with the
white race.
Tho foster-father, Judge MacNeille
explained, is willing to give up the boy,
provided it can bo proved there is no
Negro blood in him. The foster-mother,
protesting her love for the child she
has cared for since infancy, wants to
keep him.
All this has been kept from the boy
himself, who knows only that he is be
ing watched because he is somewhat
inclined to "play hookey" from
school.
The lad has perfectly white skin, a
finely shaped head and physique, and
good features. Dr. Walter S. Cornell,
an authority, made a blood test of the
boy at the request of Judge MacNeille,
but found nothing to indicate what his
ancestry is.
WHY A SPELLBINDER QUIT.
Chicago, HI. That the "statistics"
relied upon by orators are sometimes
superficial and treacherous is con
tained in a letter recently published
in the Chicago Daily News by Profes
sor G. B. Foster, a former minister who
occupies the Chair of Philosophy of
Religion at the University of Chicago.
Here is what ho is quoted as saying:
"When I was a callow youth 1
stumped my native state for the pro
hibition party. I was your boy orator,
filling the earth with homeopathic
grains of thought in an Atlantic of ut
terance, as boy orators still do. My
mind underwent a deep change, how
ever. For one thing, I saw that high
minded and substantial citizens were
not convinced by my arguments, but
that they were grieved by my fiery
folly. Then I began to look into the sta
tistics uppn which wo temperance ora
tors relied. I found how superficial
and treacherous they were. I saw that
it was not possible for their compilers
to know that they were true. On the
basis of these statistics I had thun
dered that drink caused our poverty; I
now saw that it was probably more
true that poverty caused drink. I had
pictured how drink caused domestic
unhappiness; I now saw that often do
mestic unhappincss caused drink.
'Pastor,' said a laborer to me a year
later, 'when the 6 o'clock bell rings I
quit work and go home, but would
rather go tho other way.' I knew why.
Later I took to drinking. I knew why.
In a word, I had been saying on tho
basis of lying statistics that the evils
of frail and faulty humanity were due
to drink; I came to see thab drink was
due to these evils evils that can be
cured, not by tho "strength" of pro
hibition, with its parades and its po
licemen and its politics, but a
"strength" that comes from other
where and in another wav."
states possessed themeans of dealing
adequately witbJthe question. White
illiteracy docs not seem to decrease
and the present effort is to bring this
within bounds.
WHITE ILLITERACY IN GEORGIA.
Atlanta, Ga. There is admittedly a
too high rate of illiteracy among the
whites and the Negroes in Georgia. It
has been discovered in a recent inquiry
that there are thousands of adults of
both races in the state who have never
known how to read or write. Georgia
is ashamed of this, but, wisely, is
rather exposing than concealing the
deplorable fact. Recently there have
been conferences of state and local
educationists in which plans have been
formulated -with the view of wiping
out the disgrace at the earliest possible
moment. Wherever the local authori
ties show a disposition to support the
movement against illiteracy, tho state
board of education will cooperate.
Certain other of the southern states in
recent years have been called upon to
meet and solve a similar problem. In
the mountain and remoter agricultural
districts in the South illiteracy among
whites has always been prevalent. On
ly in recent years have the southern
NOTES ON WOMEN'S WORK.
Among the many interesting wo
men's conventions which arc in prepar
ation to be held this year, one very
close at hand is that of tho North
western Federation of Colored Wo
men's Clubs which will convene at
Wichita, Kans., June 7-9.
A knowledge of tho problem indi
cates that they will be a very busy
set of women and wo are hoping for
splendid results, looking to the benefit
and advancement of tho cause for
which they are organized.
Among the northwestern states in
terested are, Arizona, California, Colo
rado, Iowa, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky,
Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio,
Wisconsin, Wyoming and Illinois.
Meeting at the same time as the Na
tional conventions at Chicago, this
meeting takes on peculiar importance.
Mrs. J. Snowden-Porter of Illinois ii
President and Mrs. J. B. Rush of Iowa,
Secretary.
Delegates will send their name and
address to Miss Stella Turner, 518 N.
Water St., Wichita, Kas., chairman of
placing committee and sho will send
assignment. Delegates will be enter
tained free and tho women of Wichita
are sparing no pains to sustain their
reputation for hospitality. When the
convention is over each one will be
glad to have had a part in it. "C."
Thomas Cole, head of tho Colo and
Catlin Hotel, 3439 South State street,
is visiting his old home, Louisville, Ky.,
where he will be in evidence at the
derby.
, t..fr.tjj JEJffiS
l tm t. -v4fcf f. ,J'udftVlA&Vj6ftT-i
fc?rfe&'i&tg& &pVvtft:&i )&u&rvm'm',--,i-','i'.-i-. a
