THE DONALDSONVLLLE CHIEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLV. DONALDSONVILLE, -LA., SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1916. NUMBER 42.
NEWS OF THE PIOTOPLAYS
Coming Attractions at the Local Movie Houses
"Neptune's Daughter" Tomorrow.
The interest of local play-goers is
centered just now in the appearances
tomorrow, at the Gem Theatre, of
"Neptune's Daughter." which features
that best kinow\n and most hibhly fo
vored of aquatic experts. Annette
Kellermann. Announcemeni, uat Miss
KeIlermlann is to appear in a d(i :natic
role which displays her abdin so
charmingly is heralded with deiignc.
"Neptune's Daughter" is a wild
fantasy of the sea which shows Miss
Kellermann as a mermaid, and in this
role she is inlinitely more attractive
than as her natural self-and no one
can gainsay her personal charm.
Those who have seen Annette Kel
Sermann in her vaudeville act doing
swimming and diving that kept an
audience breathless with excited ad
miration will thrill anew as they see
her in this weird fantasy, for her
success as a vaudeville star is not
comparable to her wonderful achieve
ment in the richly dramatic role of
the mermaid who becomes a mortal
maiden.
One has only to see Miss Keller
mann fencing and (lancing to realize
that swimming is but one of her
many accomplishments, Nothing
could be more artistic than her
"dance of the morning glories,"
where she appears as a wood-nymph'
in a sheltered green bower and dances J
for the very joy of living.
Billy Burke in "Peggy."
Local motion picture patrons are
looking forward with pleasurable an
tieipation to the offering at the Gem
next Saturday night, when Billy
Burke, the bewitching stage star, will
be seen in the title role of "Peggy,"
a seven-reel production adapted from
Miss Burke's famous play of the same
name. Triangle films represent the
highest achievement of America's
leading artists in the photodramatic
field, and the announcement that
these superb productions are to be.
shown at the Gem Theatre every Sat
Billie Burke In Overalls In the New
Triangle-Fine Arts Play "Peggy."
u,.dav. leginning today, has been re
ce& ed with genuine gratification by
every patron of the cozy littds house.
Before she accepted Triangle's of
fer and mane her first screen play,
Billie Burke was one of the handf l
of stage stars who could go out any
season. in nay play, over any route,
and pack everv! thnatre sha played in.
She has a distinct personal appeal that
has given her a wonderful following.
And all the charm, all the dramatic
hbility, all the winsomenezs that have
contributed to her ranivelous stage
suecs are tranaeorred to the screen
in "Peggy." A remarkable support
ing cast includes Wmn. H. Thompson.
Wmi. Desmond, Charles Ray and
Thelma Salter.
Peggy i, a whirlwind from America,
who bursts into a little Scotch hamlet
and sets everything topsy-turvy. But,
you see, there are a lot of things in
-he place that must be set topsy-turvy,
and then set straight again. It's the
only way of setting them to rights,
and Peggy know:s it. Her uncle is a
crabbed old man, and the villagers are
for the most part a' forlorn lot, not
much inclined either to love or to
charity. Peggy is brimming over with
both. She wins the hearts of the lit
tle children, before she has been in
the village a clay, -and gradu'lly she
brings about a great and wonderful
change in their elders. Of course
there is a young chap who falls in love
with her--he happens to be tho
"Meenister"-and when she has mpade
him prove that his gospel contains
Christianity as well as religion, she
gives herself to him. , "Peggy" is a
picture of rare beauty and intense
heart appeal, and its star is an actress
of unusual charm and popularity,
"The Girl and the Game."
The first chapter of this great rail
road film novel will be presented at
the Gem next Wednesday, May 24.
Helen Holmes the fearless film star,
plays the h ading part, and gives an
exhibition of during and courage that
has never been approached by any
actress of the stage or screen. Fol
lowing is a synopsis of the opening
installment, which is in two acts:
Frolicking in the park at a seaside
resort, Helen, the little daughter of
old General Holmes, ex-army officer
and railroad mnan, is imperiled by a
swiftly approaching locomotive. The
engine is not. one of the giant iron
horses of today, but a miniature which
stands perhaps four feet in height,
from the rails to the top of its smoke
staclk Thanks to the bravery of an
eight-year-old urchin, who snatches
her from the rails, Helen is saved
from injury.
Years later, Helen canters to the
Station to meet her father returning
from a business trip, Coming down
the mountain grade, the brakes of a
heavy freight train become disorder
ed Ever gaining in speed, the run
away train rumbles on, on down the
mountain slope. In a flash, Helen
sees her father's peril, for General
Holmes in his private car is but a few
miles away, literally riding into death,
since the runaway freight must crash
into the oncoming train that bears
Helen's father. Cool-headed, despite
her great fear, Helen leaps astride her
horse, Rocket. Spurring the animal
on, she heads him straight for the
railioad bridge, thinking she can
cross and throw a switch that will di
vert the runaway freight onto an un
used siding. On she gallops and is
halfway across the bridge, when the
huge span opens. Summoning all her
courage, Helen rides headlong to the
brink; then, still astride her horse,
she plunges from the height into the
swirling waters below. Horse and
rider disappear for a moment, then
strike out bravely for the opposite
shore. Meanwhile, a scant mile sep
arates the oncoming passenger and
the runaway freight. The bridge is
slammed back into position. Helen
gallops madly up the cinder bed, and
with all her strength, throws the
switch and the huge freight, diverted,
crashes into a stream of empty box
cars, as her father's train thunders by
in safety.
But one man has stuck to the fly
ing freight, and he is badly injured.
Helen washes the blood and cinders
from the scratched face and recog
nizes her .childhood rescuer, George
Storm by name, now a locomotive
fireman. Her father's private car is
stopped and General Holmes dashes
to his daughter's side. He catches her
in his arms and Helen is lead to where
Robert Seagrue, a nephew of General
Holmes' lifelong friend, Amos Rhine
lander, is waiting. "General," says
Seagrue coldly, "your daughter seems
to take a real interest in the engine
man." Helen looks deliberately
around, but whatever her thoughts
may be, she makes no reply.
Francis Bushman and Beverly Bayne
in "The Wall Between."
"The Wall Between," with Francis
X. Bushman and Beverly Bayne in
the starring roles, will be the Sunday
offering at the Grand. Following is
a synopsis of the story:
Sergeant Kendall of the United
States army has enlisted because of
the failure of his father's bank under
circumstances' that unjustly reflect
upon the character of his father and
the honor of the family. His rise is
rapid and he soon becomes quarter
master sergesit, in charge of the
books and supis of the army post.
* ar4 of the "w'a
between .iie and- the commis
sioned oficers: Though unhappy un
der these circumstances, he knows of
no other openig in life, and has just
enlisted for another seven years.
Granted a few days' furlough he
goes to a seaside resort near the post,
attired in civilian clothes. There he
meets David Barclay, a college chum,
I who carries him off to his country
home. Here he meets Edith Ferris,
niece of Colonel Dickinson, commana
der of the poste and her mother, who
are guests of the Barclays, Kendall
and Edith fall in love at first sight.
But Mrs. Ferris, a social snob, turns
against Kendall when she learns he is
an enlisted man,
At a ball at the country club Ken
dall meets Lieutenant Burkett, an
upstart, who has received his com
mission through the influence of his
father, a United States senator. Ken
dall. had innocently aroused the ani
mosity of Eurkett, and the lieutenant
orders Kendall from the club. Ken
dall resents this attitudd and threat
ens to thrash the lieutenant, cost
what it may, unless he apologizes, A
group of the club members take sides
with Kendall, and Burkett leaves,
vowing revenge. Burkett and Mrs.
Ferris set out to ruin Kendall, and
their detective learn the story of the
bank failure. Edith hears of their
plot, arid wishing to warn Kendall,
asks him to meet her on a secluded
pier at night. While they are there
an alarm is sounded and guards come
searching for two prisoners, who have
escaped. To save Edith the embar
rassment of being discovered, Ken
dall hides her in the storehouse of
which he has charge, and in order to
distract attention from Edith he gets
in a rowboat and makes off with the
guards after him. When, captured
;,n.1 haled before his superior officer,
rBucie t, Kendall maintains silence
in' is accused of planning to rob the
;tor.aouse.
Edith comes to his rescue and at
the cost of humiliating herself, tells
he: uncle, the colonel, of Kendall's
sacrifice for her, He orders Kendall's
release, but reduces his rank. The
regiment is ordered to Nicaragua to
put down an uprising of the natives,
and there is caught in a trap and al
most annihilated. Lieutenant Bur
kett proves himself a coward, and
when his nien find him hiding behind
a tree, they refuse to take orders
from him. In the face of a deadly
%re, Kendall, who has won the ad
ni'a.lo:n of his companions, leads
thii i I a successful charge against
the enemy. aHis daring wins a de
cisive victory and saves the regiment.
Kendall returns to the United States
to find that he is famous, through
neWspaper reports of his heroism.
He is commissioned a lieutenant by
Colonel Dickinson, and resigns from
the army to marry Edith and reopen
his father's bank, after he proves his
father guiltless of the previous wrong
doine' of which he had been accused.
Fannie Ward in "The Cheat."
Fannie Ward, famed for her talents
as a comedienne, will make her second
appearance as a Paramount star in a
production by the Lasky Feature Play
Company entitled, "The Cheat,"
which comes to the Grand Monday.
Her first photoplay, "The Marriage of
Kitty," has been universally popular.
"The Cheata'As a modern drama of
fering Miss Wld splendid opportuti
ties not only for comedy but also for
emotional acting. It is by Hector
Turnbull and was persoually produced
by Cecil B. DeMillQ. Prominent in
support of the star are Jack Dean,
Sussue Hayakawa and James Neill.
Miss Ward appears as Edith Hardy,
.whose hus;band is a hard working
man of extensive business affairs.
She is interested in charity move
ments and is ambitious socially. Also,
she is vain on the subject of clothes.
Through her position as treasurer of
a charity, fund she has many thou
sands of dollars in her keeping.
Tempted to speculate in stocks in or
der to satisfy her desire for wealth,
she takes the fund money.
Exposure faces her when she seeks
the aid of a neighbor, a wealthy
Japanese, who tries to make a bar
gain in return for the loan. The
successful and happy working out of
the complex and thrilling situation
furnishes a thoroughly exciting photo
play, replete with suspense.
"The Reform Candidate."
The offering at the Grand Wednes
day will be "The Reform Candidate,"
a Paramount feature in five reels,
with Maclyn Arbuckle, one of the
brightest luminaries of the theatri
cal firmament, portraying the leading
role. The story of the play, in brief,
is as follows:
Finding that the mayoralty cam
paign is turning against him, Frank
Grandell, who heads the "reform"
ticket which is trying to smash "Boss"
Hoke's political machine, sends his
lieutenants to pry into Hoke's private
life in the hope of unearthing some
damaging scandal. Their curiosity
aroused by the mysterious parentage
of May Hoke, the adopted daughter
of the politician, they corner "Loony
Jim," a half-witted fellow, whose de
votion the "Boss" has won through
kindness, but he dies before they can
extort the secret. Grandell then of
fers the "Boss" $15,000 for his sup
port and he, determined to crush his
enemy, accepts the money and then
defies the "reformer" to enforce tMie
bargain. Meanwhile Grapdell's wife.
whom the "Boss" has for years wor
shipped from afar, comes to prevent
her husband's nefarious intrigue, and
while there discovers that her long
lost baby is in reality the adopted
daughter of the "Boss."
'The approaching wedding of May
with yonng Benton, the mayaralty
candidate opposing her father, paves
the way for the latters retirement
from the field., All., nimosity is laid
aside <and "E'Sbss' Hogke Tih-d--the
Grandells meet in harmony through
their nintual interest in May.
"The Dawn of a Tomorrow."
Mary Pickford, the idolized star of
the Famous Players Film Company.
adds another striking characteriza
tion to her notable repertoire of
screen successes in Frances Hlodgscn
Burnett's great drama of optimism.
"The Dawn of a Tomorrow," the
world-famous stogy of a young girt's
unfaltering faith and triumphant u:
timate reward, which will be the at
traction at the Grand next Frid"y.
In this celebrated play that gladden
ed the hearts of so many, and the
screen version of which will cheer
as many thousands more, Mary Pick
ford portrays the weird and wonder
ful character of "Glad," the beautiful
and ragged girl of the London slums.
whose undying optimism and heroic
courage even starvation and deadly
peril are unable to quench. The del
icacy of Miss Pickford's portrayal
and the threads of forceful symbol
ism woven about the drama will make
an, unforgetable impression on the
spectator. How the ignorant little
slum-girl, by her beautiful faith in
the mysterious Power she but vaguely
comprehends, is enabled to save her
lover from the gallows, keep a great
financier from suicide, bringing him
a new hope and meaning of life, and
awaken his reprobate nephew to a
better manhood, are vividly told in
this sublime drama of human suffer.
ing and hope that has brought to
many despairing souls a new inspira
tion to bear the trials of today in
the expectancy of tomorrow's dawn.
Other Attractions.
The Tuesday feature at the Grand
will be Robert Mantel in "The Blind
ness of Devdtion," a five-reel -Fox
production. On Thursday, Pearl
White, talented star of "The Perils of
Pauline" and "The Iron Claw," will
be seen in "The King's Game," an in
teresting Pathe Gold Rooster feature.
Today's program will comprise the
fourth episode of "The Iron Claw,"
Pathe News, Chaplin comedy and a
"Heinie and Louie" comedy.
Billie Burke In Pajamas In the New
Triangle-Fine Arts Romantic Come.
dy "Peggy."
GEM THEATRE-SAT., MAY 27.
Let The Chief do your printing.
Quality and prices right. Phone 84.
THE BETTER THE HOPS
THE BETTER THE BEER FLAVOR
HEUSER-BUSCH have by many thou
sands of pounds more Saazer Hops in
their giant storage houses than has any
other brewery in Europe or America. Before the
war our President,while abroad on his annual
hop'buying pilgrimage bought 775,0oo pounds (15 p
bales) of Bohemia s very finest Saazer Hops. To
this add the 5oQmQoo pounds wv had on hand, and
you will see that we oan ruirates gr millions
oflar lth Q 1 wal rontinue, as
b h a ». MW" save ~a.a~i Hop
voy F a ales L9 gggaY
abs barb gD 92,
ANHMESE *?USCcStsrOUIsusA,.
tir to St Loqacs aiw court tutitadat* waispect 0r pnit
Means Moderadea
Donaldsonvilie Ice Co., Ltd.
tors Donaldsonvie, La.
CROP EXHIBITS FOR FAIR,
Specimens of Ctan Products Should
Be Sel Aide Now.
To the Planters aid rmers of As
cension Perish:
As the season approaches for har
vesting your-oiege erops; permit tiss
to suggest that you put aside the best
samples of bales and sheaves for ex
hibition at the South Louisiana Fair,
which will be held at Donaldsonville
October 5-8. Liberal cash premiums t
are offered for the best bale or three
sheaves of each of the following:
lespedeza, alfalfa, oats, red clover,
crimson clover, rice, cowpea vine,
peanut, native grass, Bermuda; the
best bundle (12 stalks) sorghum,
kaffir corn and milo maize.
Every indication points this sea
son to one of the most prosperous
years in the history of our section,
and the fair will reflect this prosper
ity in the better quality and increas
ed number of exhibits as well as in a
greatly increased attendance. We i
earnestly request your co-operation 1
in our efforts to make the fair a hum- I
mer and a record-breaker this year, 1
and to this end we ask that you send
us any worthy exhibits you may have.
The new catalog and premium list I
will be delivered by the printers
about the middle of June and one
will be mailed you free on application. i
Very truly yours,
SOUTH LA. FAIR ASSOCIATION,
J. W. Supple, President; R. S.
Vickers, Secretary-Mgr.
Supt. Gourdain Ill.
We regret to learn that J. N. Gour
dain, our superintendent of public ed
,ucation, is suffering with nervous
prostration, necessitating the assist
ance of a physician.
Of late Mr. Gourdain, in his of
ficial capacity, has been called upon
to solve complicated and intricate
problems regarding the management
of the public schools of this parish,
the most serious of these problems be
ing that of being called upon to ru i
the schools with an empty treasury. I
The refusal of the police jury to
come to the rescue of the board of
.chool directors with an additional ap
propriation of $4500, with which to
pay existing school debts and take
care of the current expenses of the
:inth month of the school term, had
a very depressing effect on Mr. Gour
damin and brought on the nervous pros
tration from which he is now suffer
ing.
Under the skillful care of Dr. L. A.
Gaudin, his brother-in-law, coupled
with much needed rest, we entertain
the hope that within a few days the
head of our school system will be up
and about and in the enjoyment of
his usual good health.-St. James
Voice.
NOTICE TO MORTGAGE
CREDITORS.
Donaldsonville. La., May 20, 191E.
ItN comformity with Section 63 of Act No.
85 of 1888, notice is hereby given to all
parties holding mortgages upon real estate
located in the parish of Ascension on which
taxes for the year 1915 have not been paid,
that I will begin the sale of the same at the
courthouse door on SATU1RDAY, JUNE 24,
19p6, at 12 o'clock a. in., and that a num
ber of pieces of property so delinquent are
now being advertised in this newspaper, in
comformity with law, preparatory to such
sale. The attention of mortgage creditors
is especially called to these advertisements of
tax sales, and they are warned to take such
steps prior to the sale as may be necessary,
to protect their rights.
E. C. HANSON,
Sheriff and ex-officio Tax Collector, Parish
of Ascension.
FOR SALE
TJWO CARS OF MIXED HAY at $9 per ton,
f. o. b. Frisco Railroad.
TQOS. R1. EWES, Oscar. La.
VOTES FOR WOMEN.
Southern States Woman Suffrage
Conference.
417 Camp Street, New Orleans.
'Tar the Common Good."
Some of us are being jolted into
modern ways and thoughts. To the
naturally alert, up-to-date, business
man the new methods are easy; to the
reactionary old-fogy it is hard to
catch up with the procession, es
pecially where women are concerned.
As for instance at Chevy-Chase,
(southern Maryland of all states!),
a service camp is established for train
ing women in military tactics. The
course includes gun practice, camp
cookery, caring for the wounded,
nursing the sick, sanitation and the
regular life of war-time. ?lrs. Wood
row Wilson visited the camp and re
viewed the women. Come to think of
it, even reactionaries cannot bewail
the gun practice. All our American
fore-mothers were handy with guns.
Used 'em on Indians, or bears or
sometimes to sho6t rabbits, turkeys,
and other attractions for the cookpot.
No real American descendant can ob
ject to women in gun-practice. And
camp-cookery and nursing are regular
women's jobs even though our fore
fathers thought- they alone coddled
and protected the family. The camp
at Chevy-Chase isn't introducing new
conditions after all. It's just mobil
izing the women's energies for the
general good, whereas forefathers
formerly monopolized these energies
for personal use. Women are now
serving all instead of one. "United
we stand" includes women. Wonder
if women will be given a chance to
vote on war conditions if they must
serve?
A Million Dollars For Suffrage. t
By the decision of the surrogate of
New York, approximately one mil
lion dollars will be available for the
cause of woman suffrage. The be
quest was made by Mrs. Frank Leslie,
who devised her estate to Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt, for the purpose of se
euring votes for women. This liberal
sum of money will be devoted to the
aecessary expenses of campaigning in
the states which have not yet given
the ballot to women. Perhaps a
'ittle work in the south in behalf of
woman suffrage will lift the southern
women from the degradation of po
litical inferiority to every man re
gardless of color, education or mor
ality.
Louiaian? Women Want Votes.
A bill has been introduced in the
Louisiana legislature to submit to the
-°oters a constitutional amendment for
woman suffrage. This brings Touisi
ind up-to-date with several other
;out-hern;states. The Tennessee and
West Virginia legislatures have al
ready passed such a bill, and the votes
for women movement is exceedingly
:ctive in many of the southern
states.
Woman Mayor Re-elected.
Mrs. Kate York begins her second
tetra as mayor of Kingston Mines.
She is said to be the first woman
thayor in Illinois to achieve re-elec
f tion. All the other members of the
council are men.
WHAT CARE I HOW FAIR SHE BE
IP SHE BE NOT FAIR TO ME?
MAW SHE IS NOT FAIR TO ME
UNLESS SHE WEARS A BOOSTER
KEY.
Be a booster. Buy a key.
OF LA. PRESS ASS'N.
Resolutions dopted Relative to Occupation Tax, Libel
Laws, Gorernment Competition with Printers, Reduc
tion of Postage Rates, Newspaper Co-operation, Etc.
At the annual meeting of the Louis
inna Press Association in Baton
Rouge last weeks a Committee on res
olutions was appointed, composed of
J. W. Smith of th Monroe News
Star, chairman; E.L Stephens of the
institute Bulletin, Lafayette; Savery
M. Lewis of the ton Leader, Mrs.
C. L. Braaeatele« the Natchitoches
Enterprise and E. Ai Mangham of the
Rayville Beacon-News. This com
mittee presented the following re
port, which was-adopted by the unan
imous vote of the iembers present:
"Resolved by The Louisiana Press
Association in convention at Baton
Rouge, that we demand the repeal of
the occupation tax law by the general
assembly at the" pproaching session
of that body; that we indorse the de
nunciation. of the oocupation tax by
Governor-elect Pleasant, and pledge
to the governor the support of this
organization in his efforts to have the
obnoxious law wiped from the statute
books. An occuphtion tax is a tax on
intelligence, thrift and industry, and
it is indefensibly' from any point of
view.
"Resolved, that ioi the opinion of
the Louisiana Press Association the li
bel laws of this state should be so
framed as to protect the press from
persecution and punishment, either
civilly or criminally, for the publica
tion of the truth in the ordinary
course of disseminating news and
commenting on public afairs, when it
is manifest that such publication is
without malice and made with good
intent. The law: should forbid the
recovery of excive or punitive
damages in cases where an erroneous
publication has 'efa made in good
faith and reparation is offered by an
adequate correctk h in the columns of
the defendant ation.
"Resolved, t indorse the sug
gestion of Pr D PeCoux in fa
vor of co-operatis in the placing of
foreign advertisIog contracts, and
with the view of auing about such
co - operation- understanding
among the meml s of the associa
tion, the incomin president is hereby
directed to appdi4t a committee of
three with instri ions to submit a
comprehensive A peration plan at
either a special meeting of the asso
ciation, or at nhteat regular meet
ing. The predeI4t is directed to is
sue a call for a special meeting at
some point to b designated by him in
the event thatt speci.l committee
deems such as necessary.
'Ieo vi . is, association
condemns of etnvelopie
manufacturers in printing envelopes
for consumers, i. direct competition
with the local publishing plants, and
the members of the association pledge
their best efforts towards breaking up
the practice of` such envelope mani
facturers. -
"Resolved, t we reaffirm the po
sition of the Louisiana Press Asso
ciation hereto ore taken regarding
government competition with the
newspaper and job printers of the
country, and the construction of the
interstate coirdneree act which pre
vents railroad companies from making
advertising contracts with newspa
pers payable in transportation. We
therefore respectfully and earnestly
request the Louaisana senators and
representatives in Congress to give
heir active support to the provision of
house resolution No. 8664, which
precludes the sale b1 the government
of envelopes with individual or cor
porate names or advertising thereon,
and also to favor the bill introduced
by Congressman Adamson, chairman
of the committee on interstate com
merce of the house of representatives,
giving railroads the right to make
newspaper advertising contracts pay
able in orders on their traflic depart
ments for transportation.
"Resolved, that we also request the
congress` oL the United States to re
peal the law requiring newspapers to
publish statemu'nts of their business
affairs, circulations, debts, etc., which
we regard as an invidious and obnox
ious statute, and we ask the Louisi
ana senators and representatives to
employ their efforts and influence to
this end.
"Resolved, That we favor the re
duction of tWe rate of first-class post
age from two ceqts to one cent per
ounce.
"Resolved, that we extend to the
StyIeps 17
TTRA3A MARi4tCGISFag
The same 1the Id over'
DOLPHE NETTER
city officials and entertainment com
mittee of Baton Rouge our thanks for
their hospitable entertainment of the
members of this association; to the
railroads for their courtesy in furnish
ing transportation; to the hotels for
their special rates; to the Elks' Club
and Theatre Louisiana for their en
tertainments; to the newspapers of
Baton Rouge and New Orleans for
their full and comprehensive reports
of the proceedings; to the faculty and
students of Louisiana State Univer
sity for their courtesy and hospitality,
and to President Leo DeCour, Dr. C.
J. Edwards, S. O. Landry, Prof. H.
M. Blain, Paul Wooton, Edward C.
Johnston, James L. Wright and M. G.
Osborn for the most excellent papers
read before the meetings of this as
sociation."
TRIBUTE TO MISS KERNAN.
Poem Dedicated to U. C. V. Sponsor
For 1916.
Because of its literary merit and
the fact that the lovely young lady
to whom it is inscribed is known
either in person or through her fam
ily connections to many of The Chief's
readers we take pleasure in publish
ing the following poem by Mrs. Lilita
Lever Younge, poet laureate of Stone
wall Jackson Chapter, U. D. C,, New
Orleans, who is the (lauahter of a
Union soldier, Gen. E. A. Lever. The
honorce, Miss Gladys Kernan, is a
granddaughter of Gen. A. B. Booth
of New O4leans, a gallant Confeder
ate veteran who for a number of
years resided at Hope Villa, East Ba
ton Rouge parish, just across the A;
cension line, and has a host of friends
in our parish.
Our Sponsor For the South, 1916.
Clear Is the bugle-call of old,
Sweet as the mock-bird's lay,
Dear to our hearts a thousandfold
This message from the Gray:
Greetings, Louisiana fair,
(Thus saith the warriors' screed),
Land of blue skies and languorous air.
Hark to the veterans' rede:
State first, when the dread toesin
shrilled, *
To call her sons to arms,
While heart, soul and manly bosom
thrilled
To'war's_ lesrst alarms,
What though the thunderous guns
Thte sacred-guidons furded'
Thy deathless fame and high reputeI
Mtill thrill the watchful world.
Amidst thy galaxy of maids,
,One like a dawn-flushed rose,
She of dark eyes and sun-kissed
braids,
In youthful beauty glows
Gjadys Kernan! A thousand throats
Take up the glad refrain,
'Midst ranks of old gray army ceats,
Marching to martial strain.
Our southland's sponsor! Eyes are
wet,
Drums beat a proud tattoo,
For southern hearts can ne'er forget,
While southern skies are blue,
The cause for which her grandsire
strove,
In young manhood's first flush
That cause, born of our oountry'a
love,
Ne'er called to cheek a blush!
That southland, like a lustrous pearl
Set in the gold of years,
Crowns thee her sponsor, lovely girl,
'Midst plaudits and 'midst cheers!
A Symbol of Health.
The Pythagorians of ancient
Greece ate simple food, practiced
temperance and purity. As a ladge
they used the five-pointed star which
they regarded as a symbol of health.
A red five-pointed star appears on
each package of Chamberlain's Tab
lets, and still fulfils its ancient mis
sion as a symbol of health. If you
are troubled with indigestion, bilious
ness or constipation, get a package of
these tablets from your druggist.
You will be surprised at the quick re
lief which they afford. Obtainable
everywhere.- (Ad',.)
