RTHE DAIIY TELEGRAM Usssass-I
, I otbor Clarluburs paper. I
~ EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATED PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WISH V J
ESTABLISHED 1861. # CLARKSBURG, W. VA., SATURDAY. MAY 20, 1916.
PRICE TWO CENTS
SWISS ARE READY TO RESIST AN INVASION
QUITTING LILLY COLO
One of the important political events of the week
is the Buckiiaimon Delta's repudiation of the candi
daov'of "Abe" Lilly for the noinination for governor
on the Republican ticket. The Delta's action dropped
in the Lilly camp in Upshur county like a German bomb
and is shooting the Lilly structure there into frag
ments. The Delta is an influential newspaper in its
own county as well as in some of the adjacent counties
and its refusal to support Lilly any longer will have a
wide effect in the campaign. Its positive declaration
for Judge Ira Robinson for governor will rally hun
dreds of voters, yea, thousands, to him. It is a good
index of how the cat is beginning to hop politically, a
forerunner of what is in store for Lilly in the closing
days of the campaign. T!i:> Delta's editorial on this
subject is as follows:
The Delta started out in this campaign to support
General A. A. Lilly for the Republican nomination for
governor. As is customary, the press bureau sent us
stuff urging his candidacy, but it wasn't long until the
stuff became too rank for us, and we refused to print it.
Several weeks ago, alter a careful study of the situa
tion, we became convinced that the character of cam
paign being made by Mr. Lilly is such that if he should
be nominated, he would lie defeated 011 his own utter
ances. Being a good Republican, we want to help nom
iinate candidates who can win, and therefore we have
cut loose from the Lilly faction. We do this reluctantly
for we like "Abe" Lilly; but he has had his own ideas
about conducting bis campaign, and they are not our
id<*as. Judge Robinson is making a much more digni
fied campaign, and is conducting himself as becomes a
candidate for governor. We are sorry that Mr. Lilly is
not doing this. The recor I of Governor Hatfield does
not enter into this campaign, except that the Republi
can party cannot disavow the acts of the present ad
ministration?and the greater part of the party has no
desire to do so. Mr. Lilly's persistent attacks on the
present administration are making Democratic am
munition which will be used against the party this fall.
I The Delta is not an adfHtrei- of Governor Hatfield?but
he is not a candidate for office, and we have no desire to
publish abuse of him now. Mr. Lilly is making his
fight against Hatfield, and Hatfield is not a candidate
against Lilly. The Delta has no desire to help foment
another factional fight for the governorship; therefore
we have decided that the best way to promote harmony
is to support Judge Robinson for the Republican nom
ination for governor.
Inquest Not Necessary
Says Coroner Mason
"I
After Making Investigation into
Death of Florence Johnson
Who Committed Suicide.
After making a thorough investi
gation of the death of Florence
Johnson, aged 39 years, who (lied at
the home of his sister, Mrs. Samuel
Dougherty, on the River road at
Point Comfort, at 3 o'clock Friday
afternoon, fifteen minutes after he
had taken an ounce of poison. Dr. S.
M. Mason, coroner, announced Sat
urday morning that it was a plain
case of suicide and no inquest would
he held.
Mr. Johnson had been in failing
health for some time and in February
underwent an operation in a local
hospital for appendicitis and had
never entirely recovered from the ef
fects of the operation and while he
j did not. lave anything saying why he
| committed the rash deed, relatives
feel that it was on account of his
: health. He lived at Stealey Heights
j but was visiting at his sister's home
i when he committed the deed.
The deceased man is survived by
I his wdiow, Mrs. Marguerite Johnson,
| four children, Artines, Lemuel, Fran
cis and Robert Johnson, all livng at
home. Other survivors are Mrs.
Mary Johnson, his mother, Mrs. San>
! uel Dougherty, Mrs. James Hardy,
! Mrs. William Cornwell, sisters; and
j John, Luther, Lloyd and James
Johnson, brothers.
The funeral services will be held
at 2 o'clock Sunday afternoon at
; the Dougherty home and the burial
i will be in the Greenlawn cemetery.
WILSON SMARTS
UNDER A DEFEAT
...
And for That Reason He At
tacks Leaders of the Re
publican Party.
(?V ASSOCIATED PWaSSI
SALISBURY, N. C? May 20.?
President Wilson addressing a large
crowd at the railroad station here to
day as he passed through on his way
to Charlotte attacked leaders of the
Republican party as men who are
"looking backward." Members of the
president's party declared he was re
ferring to the light led by Senator
Galllnger defeating the nomination
of George Rublee to the federal
trade commission.
"There are very serious things to
be done nowadays, ladies and gentle
men," said the president, "and it la
[i satisfaction to be associated with
men who know how serious they are
and with what spirit they must be
approached: because whether we will
or not we are at the beginning of a
new age for the world and America
will have to play a very gToat part
in that new age. And we will have
to be very sure not to encourage or
to give countenance to the men who
are trying to hold us back.
"There are some men, 1 do not
believe they represent the great
rank and file of the Republioan
party, bnt the men who now control
the Republican party, who are look
I ing baokward, not forward. They do
not know the problems the new day
and whenever I, for example, try to
show my sympathies for the forward
looking men of their own party by
nominating men of that sort, they at
once try to block the progress. They
have no sympathy with the forward
looking men of their own party. We
have come down here to celebrate an
historical celebration but we have
not done It because we are looking 1
backward; we have done It merely
In order to give ourselves the excuse'
to get together and feel the thrill
of being Americans and living in an
age when it is worth while belnp
Americans."
? ?
? AGED SUICIDE.
+ +
CSV A1MC1ATSO nUD +
? HRIB, Pa., May SO.?After ?
? beating his wife Into lnsenslbll- ?
+ lty with a pleco of gas plpo, Ja- ?
? cob Pavskl, aged 87, flred two ?
+ bullets into his head and died a ?
+ few minutes later. The aged ?
? couple had quarreled because ?
? Mrs Pavskl had spent tho night ?
? at the house of a neighbor. She *
+ Is expeoted to recover. ?
? ?
DEATH CLAIMS
W. M. Conaway.
W. M. Conaway, candidate for prosecuting attorney for Harrison coun
ty, whose cut appears above, is regarded by those who have known him for
years as a moat capable man, and the logical candidate for this olflce at thin
time. Born at Bristol, Ten Mile district, and the son of Dr. J. B. Conaway,
now deceased, who helped to make this county Republican, Mr. Conaway's
early life was spent on the farm and attending public school at Bristol and
Salem, where his youthful career is well known. Desiring a college edu
cation, and principally with money earned by hard labor, railroading and
working Inthe oil fields, he. put himself through collece, graduating In
Michigan with honors as a bachelor of philosophy. Three years more were
spent by him in Michigan as superintendent of high schools, whore for, ef
ficient service he was granted a teacher's life certificate for the state or
Michigan. Returning to the state of West Virginia Mr. Conaway entered
the law school, at Morgantown, where he graduated as a bachelor of laws
in the year. 1902, and located imuiediatcly at Clarksburg to practice hiti
chosen profession.
Mr. Conaway, together with his wife and two children, rosided in
ClarkBburg, and Mr. Conaway's professional career during his residence here
is well known to the people of Harrison county, where he, as a lawyer, has
successfully met and contended with remarkable success in all branches
of the law with the ablest members of the bar in the lower courts and in
the highest court of the state; so that he is now regarded as one of the
most experienced and able attorneys of the Clarksburg bar. and under all
circumstances his practice of the profession of law has been in accordance
with the highest- standard of legal ethics.
In politics-Mr. Conaway has been actively engaged in-every campaign
for the nominees of the party, and he has served for several years as sec
retary of the Republican county executive committee, and wan the active
manager of the political campaign of the county for the year 1908.
If the Republicans of Harrison county desire a man ror this otlice who
is in the prime of life, ono who is honest", frank and conscientious, one who
thinks and acts according to his best judgment, with absolute fairness to
all, without fear or favor hi his constructions of the statutes of the state,
they will make no mistake in the selection of W. M. Conaway as their can
didate for prosecuting attorney for Harrison county.
MAN FOR PROSECUTOR
SHIP1GJILL
Passes the House Virtually in i
the Form in Which It is
Introduced.
<?* ASSOCIATED PRKSB)
WA StH'LN'GTON, May 20.?The ad
ministration, shipping bill designed to
upbuild the merchant marine and to
strengthen the navy, passed the 'louse :
today by a vote of 21] to 161. virtually
in tho form it was introduced.
Among the Republicans,voting for
the bill wer Moss, of West Virginia,]
and Miller and Farr, of. Pennsylvania.
SEAPLANE RAID.
f?v ASSOCIATED PftBflSt
LONDON, May 20.?Three German
seaplanes made it raid on the English .
east coast last night, a British offlclal
announcement Bays. One of the air
craft was brought down ofT tho Bel
gian coast. The seaplanes dropped
thirty-seven bombs, killing one sol
dier and wounding two civilians.
GETS HER BOY BACK.
Mrs. Mary E. Jones, of Glen Elk,
who, a few days ago, had her minor
son, Cecil, jailed under Incorrigibility
proceedings, appeared in Magistrate
W. H. Starcher's court Saturday and
withdrew them. On her payment of
the costs, the boy was released from
Jail and given Into her custody.
WILT; PRORATED.
The will of the late James Marcel
lus Garrett waB probated Saturday.
He left his estate to his widow, Ag
nes Barrett and his two children,
Wade and Anna Garrett, to share
lawfully as If there were no will.
Wade Garrett was named as his ex
ecutor.
Jesse G. Lawson, of Bridgeport,
visited the city Saturday.
Noted Ohio Politician and The
atrical Magnate is a Victim
of Pneumonia.
iit MHCi^riD ?m)
CINCINNATI, May 20.?George B.
Cox, politiclun and theatrical mag
nate, died nt his home here early tills
morning. Mr. Cox was stricken with
paralysis February 28, from which he
never recovered although death Is i
said to have been from penumonlaj
which developed In the last few days.
George Ilarnsdale Cox was one of'
the most widely known porfeaMonal
politicians In Ohio, a baseball mag
nate, a banker and part owner of one
of the largest theatrical syndicates In
the country. Born In Cincinnati,
April 29. 1863, he began his career
as a newsboy, and later became a
saloonkeeper at "Dead Man's Corner"
as the locality at Carlisle and Cen
tral avenues, Cincinnati, was known
because of the numerous murders in
the neighborhood. Cincinnati was 1
"wide open" in those days and un
bridled saloons and gambling flour
ished. Cox, however, kept his place !
orderly and established a reputation ,
for phylscal courage that ho mnin-'
tained throughout bis career.
He Immediately became a leader In
local politics and soon spread bis In
fluence until he virtually controlled
tbe Republican machine in Hamilton
county, obtained a powerful bold on
state politics and wielded an Influ
ence In national campaigns.
Early In his political career Cox
was eleoted to the city council. That,
howevor, was tho only elective office
to which be ever aspired. He found
the Inner circle conferences of his
party far more to his liking than the
open work of the platform. As lead
er of the Republican party In Hamil
ton county, be selected as bis chief
lieutenants August Hermann, now
chairman of the National Baseball
Commission and president of the Cin
cinnati baseball club, and Hu& Hyn
lcka, who later beoams closely asso
ciated with Mr. Cox In theatrical
ventures. In the division of author
t Continued on. Pace FourJ.
limy READY
TO DO BATTLE
ON FIRST GALL
Federal Council Would Wot Tol
erate Troops of Warring
Powers Across Salient.
GERMANS TAKE OFFENSIVE
City of Dunkirk and a Nearby
| Town Are Bombarded by
German Aeroplanes.
? ?V AISOCIATBO
PA HIS. May 20. Switzerland Is
prepared to resist with nil the furo?:.
a( Its commaud any Invasion or its
lerrllory by troops of the hell'j.erents,
according 10 un Interview wltn Presi
dent Cnmllic De Ooppet.
President Pe Coppet was ns'c-ii
specifically what would lie the act Ion
of Switzerland IT troops of one of the
warring powers should he sent ucros-i
the Porentruy iialletit. He replied:
"The federal council would never
tolerate such a proceeding and In nc
eordance with i.lio pinna or i.!cihmiiI
Ulrlcli Wllle, the cotnniunder In chler
of our army, would onler the Imme
diate mobllluitlon of u 11 our forces
which would be mint Into action.
"The Swiss nrmy In In splendid
condition. It has reached n perfec
tion'of training which hns been hltn
erla unknown and lias J net received
a complete equipment of new heavy
artillery which was manufactured In
Franco and Oerninny by order of the
Swish government.", t
The Porentruy nallent JiiIh Into
France immediately south of Alsnzo.
The town of Porentruy Is about twen
ty miles south or tile great French
fortress. If German troops were able
to cross the salient, they could strlko
nt the communication of the v/hoh
French line from Verdun to Alsace.
GERMAN ATTEMPT TO
CROSS A CANAL FAILS
(?VAMOCMTtO Mill)
PARIS. May 20.?-German troops
took the olYeuinvo aloe* the
Yser canal between St'censtrnete and
Hot ens Inst night, the war office an
nounced today. An attempt (o cross
the canal failed.
The Germans also attacked In tho
Champagne. The war office an.j
nouncement says I hat' asphyxiating
gas was used but that the assault was
repulsed.
Dunkirk was bombarded by Cer-,
man aeroplanes. One woman wnsi
killed and 27 persons wore wound-1
ed. I
The town or Horguos. near Dun
kirk, also wus bombarded by German |
aeroplanes. Five persona were killed
and eleven wounded. In retaliation
for theise attacks, French mid Bel
gian aeroplanes dropped bombs on j
Gorman camps.
On the Verdun front there were
no Important developments. Frcneh
positions at Avocourt and nt Dead
Man hill were bombarded violently.!
CLOCK SCHEDULES TO
BE JUMPED ONE HOUR
LONDON, Mav 20.?Tho hands on
all clocks on BrltlNh railroads, post-1
offices. newspaper offices, police sta
tions and other places where busi
ness Is conducted throughout the
nlghf, will be pushed forward at two
o'clock tomorrow morning to three
o'clock In accordance with the day- -
light saving act. The general pub
lic will put tholr clock? and watches
one hour ahead before going to lied,
tonight, or will awake to find them
selvos late for breakfast.
The new schedule will run until
September 30. when clocks will be!
stopped for an hour. Factories, i
banks, stores, trains, theatres and .
restaurants will all conform to the
new time schedule. There Is a small
old-fashioned section of Che people
who have derided the daylight sav'ng
scheme but they will be practical I'
forced Into line by its acceptance by,
all public institutions.
The only exception will be the
parks In the large cities which will
open an hour lator to allow people
the benefit of more fresh air.
WILSON SPEAKS
To a Large Crowd at a Patri
otic Celebration at
Charlotte, N. C.
<?? ASSOCIATED Nlll)
CHARLOTTE, N, C., May 20.?
President Wilson today addressed a
crowd estimated at-more than 100,
000 gathered here for the one hun
dred and forty-first anniversary of
the signing of tho Mecklenburg dec
laration of Independence. He was In
troduced by Governor Craig, of North
Carolina, who spoke of the president
as one of the greatest leaders the na
tion has ever seen. The president be
gan speaking at 11:30 o'clock.
MARRIAGE LICENSES.
Marriage licenses hayo. been issued
to Ou-1 Means and Bessie Bonnel and
Frank Gaston and Cfelli* Bouis,
I m
MARTIN FOR ASSESSOR
IS A SELF MADE MAN
I
K. P. Martin prescutx himself to tile
people of "Harrison county for tho
; noratanrlon Tor anHOBHO'r AB 11)6 HflJSIIb
ltcun ticket.
Wlille Mr. Martin lion called on per
sonally a large per cent of'tho voter*
j of the county, still there aro hundrods
< of voters that It will he Impossible for
? him to see, and he sends thin biography
and cut that yon might know him bel
j ler and become more acquainted with
htm In thin way.
Mr. Martin bra native of Harrison
county and is a sou of R. J. Martin;
was raised on his father's farm, at
tended tho public schools and com
pleted his business education at tho
l .\1 annoy business college, Richmond,
Va. He comes to you a self-made man.
coming from a family of eight chil
dren, and from ills early boyhood he
has made his own way. In order to
secure money for his education ho dug
coal in a. county coal bank of his
father's, worked at the carpentor trade
and tilled the soil. Coming back from
-school he -hired with tho Kotilegard
Dry Goods Company, of Oltfktbttnr.
where he worked for about three
years; leaving there ho entered the
mercantile business with a very'lim
ited capital and lias mado good, In
whi^h business he'ls still engage^. Mr.
Martin's pasthuslness life particularly
qualifies- him for the office which " he
seeks. He .Is familiar with both , coun
try and city real estato; being a
butcher ho knows the value of cattle
nnd Is well 'posted In the general mer
cantile business.
Ho Was always an honeit and up
right young man, Jotnihg the United
Brethren church when he was fourteen
years of age and has been a loyal mem
bor ever since.
Mr. Martin Is married and la tho
father of four children. His friends
suy you cannot.mlss it when you give
him your vote and support.
+
+ IS <H'ITK l'OUTE. ?
+ ?>
+ WHIREUi.no, .May 20.?"How +
? arc you boys, a flue evening ?
+ till* evening" Is tlio pleusanl ?
+ grec'ing extended lo all cub- ?
? lomers by n proprietor of a ?
? speakeasy on Market street +
+ near Twenty-seventh. ? Thin ?
+ man has the buslucsB down pat +
? and when you leave It Ib "Good +
+ night gentlemen, come back +
? ngaln." You can get a bottle of ?
? beer or a good slxo glass of ?
+ whiskey for the price you pay +
? in a wot town. ?
? +
BAN ON AUTOS
To Be Made by Presbyterians
as They Do Incalculable
Harm on Sabbath.
'? T tllocotio Ffl r
ATLANTIC CITY, May 20?Sab
bath observance was the principal
topic Tor discussion at today's session
of the Presbyterian general assem
bly. In the preliminary report mov
ing pictures and automobiles are de
clared to be working Incalculable
harm to the Sabbath and resolutions
of protest are expected to be offered
for adoption by the assembly.
TO ATTEND SERVICES.
Tbe McClelland Bible class in a |
body will attend the morning ser
vice of the First Presbyterian church
tomorrow. The dais meets as usual
at 9:30 a. m.
TO SENTENCE LYNCH.
<BV UIMUTD P?Wf> '
LONDON, May 20.?The American
embassy was officially Informed to
day that sentence on Jeremiah C.
Lerach. the naturalised American, who
baa been oonvlcted of complicity in
the Sin Fein revolt, would he an
nounced by the military authorities
during the day, , ,
Wtiere There Is Consternation,
Pandemonium and Party
Panic Now.
"There's h-11 to play nowl" ?ir
agely laid Democrats to one another
Saturday morning, when it became
known that A. Judson Flndley had.
decided to rnn for re-nomlnatlon for
prosecuting attorney on the Demo?'
cratlc ticket.
About two weeks ago the;"lead
ers" held a star chainbcr meeting,,
said to have been Inspired' bya part,
of official Washington and thought,
to have been well "generaled'V ati
which notice was served on JudWAt
that lie shoul'd not run this year.'
There was rejoicing In the Democrat
ic camp as the ultimatum Wait
thought all sufficient and the rtuk I
of Democratic announcements for
nomination, as all remember, follow- "
ed precipitately.
Men prominent In the party had',let '
it be known that they would not run Jj
for office with Judson on the, UeX- ?
et. but as soon as the "leadera",had
told them he had been shelved there :
waa one grand rush to enter the po
litical ring. In view of this .state of '
affairs, the Flndley. announcement ,
came as a submarine explosion In the.
Democratic county "ship of state"
and consternation and party- panic,
reigns. And now the, leaders have
troubles of their own.
Here l; what Flndley says about;;
It:
"To the . Democrats of Harrison/
county: ' * 9
"I desire the nomination- by
Democratic party for the oflh* . otj
prosecuting attorney of Harrison
county. I have not made this
nouncement before this time, forth'ajj
reason that I 'believe It to be good S
policy 'that the office seek the manjarfa
well as the man the office.' .; Many I
good cltliehs have asked me to be-S
come a candidate for.thla office. . A
petition has ? been presented" toSnfM
signed by many of the noble and
splendid Democrats of the county and
in the words following^, ij|
" '.We. theundersigned TOteTaBf]
Harrison county, West Vlrgttda,|l?-$
predating your efficient service at
