I TlFT ' HI
American F rk Citizen J
yOI XIV AMKKICAN FOIUC CITIZEN, SATUM&yHlYY 20,, lslC. ----- NUMnEtl r. Ml'
Ipacific Cuts
I Immense Body
I of High Grade
full breast of ore broken into that is worth
from $25,000 to $30,000 per car.
I Saturday night, the miners in the Pacific, while pushing the
north drift broke into a full face of copper glance ore unci in
Besteading the drift, four shifts had taken out over twenty tons
of the ore, similar to that on which previous assays had shown
values of 20 per cent copper and over 500 ounces in silver. 'Phis
means that a car load shipment will bring between $25,000 and
fco.ooo.
A cross cut is now being run on the ore to determine its ex
Item1, but indications are that it is the biggest body of high
;rn(le ore of any mine in the state and when opened up will be
Kimniiiiinir sensation of the year.
V This strike Is between C5 ami CO ft.
Hiortb of the strike that was the scn
sllon of tho Btato two weeks ago
Rfcen an Immense body of ?5G ore was
Hipened ui and showed n dlstanco of
iver 20 feet between tho walls. In
wid the vein has been crosscut over
PR EVANS WILL
I ISUIfVELOPING
n .Vow Well l'lnnncul and Has IHg
H gfst Holdings la (lio (,'iiiijon.
I fcijor Evans Mining 'Jo. has born ?iic
Ks'fully financed for mi nctlvo enm
Kgn of dcrvloiimcnt work, which fact I
iththo knowledge thnt It was to rc
Bime work :it onco inado it the chief
Hiutre on tho Salt I.ako stock ox.
tasgc at the closo of tho week when
I Riny blocks of stock changed hands
Koq 8 to 21 cents per share.
B The Major Evans owns thirty-eight
Mcll located clnlms, probably tho big-
t territory of nny company In tho
B!trlct. It contains sovcral well
"-.own, well mineralized fissures,
TBrpfcry djkes, tho soluablc llmo nud
res of rich float lying in tho sur- j
e toll. Twenty. Uiojusnnd dollars
?Br(t of development trk lins been i
""Bno by the old company, ntid tho
'' A:Boperty has nil tho necessary build-.
K;s, tools, etc to get right down to
'Incss.
$20 HThc dlnttors of tho company with
B engineer and their now mnnngcr
1 hHto planned to go up tho ennyon tn
I'uesiBrad will decide whero tho men will
MaliB put ' W0ll I'coplo associated
MjB,!l "L'nclo" Jcsso Knight interests
( jW0 tl10 chief owners, though a big
n iM00 ' ,lie K,oc,c ,R ,,o1tl ,oen,1'-
rJE EXCURSION
3 BEING PLANNED
MY0 many mining men and Salt I.ako
HHH"8 nr" ,,MnK nn Interest in Am
NBC3t) Foik Canyon that the Publicity
lll'B'Wnlttcp imt decided and nro plnn
gggH'S for a die uM-mslon in tho enn-
early i, ,li. u Wil bo on a
W ' llcn '" v'himK0 wlM l,t' vom
L f0 t'lnr " ' m.-mbers can como In
aH y Tll 'on rami will bo put
condition n, Mint automobiles can
j poto ibo iiutruiiuin Klnt whoro II,
Proposed ... kill u ,, beef and
Ol1 "n "hi r. liioned barbacuo.
Nfllolrm luoinobllcs hnvo been of.
H co ih.it ii is certain that there
bo nouii to meet an early
--B"1 ;" ' "' "mvp' Kt'ntls nil who
. 10 dov " Ii Im idanncd to have
V iM1 ' 'i 'ir points, such ns Ilan-
. B1' a" ''"wi-r plant. Hanging
IdCHK ,Vlun,n ' ' Soulli Fork, Coal
7 Dr!"r r'"k and other plnccs,
)VftM, """"" ",,ill,M t interest. At
w"n-o P'. the excursionists will
II m p" " ""' l"0f, ,0 K "I' tno Mn"
lllBp, " '""', Mni"' "on Gulch,
1 1 ! '"'r "'" or "n "P tho main
Pr,,,' --r they nro most In-
11
' BY STATE WILL "
I SHIP CAR ORE
Jv)' n'j Tyler thin week
Mfclpmn, , ' ,"U 1t"k,,,K out
fHtkln tl10 "PI'01'
,;; "r " in- . while two
fHiM , ' 'n'1"u, n'linlMB t'o dcop
lrr '' ''" vein 1 dt.ptli Mr.
I,. ''I ihi,t hf Ins .1 'en
iBf.. vhi oiiend n fm
WHC. ff ' hns'phowed a na
M.. - ."" '" ' liter and (12 8 pi r
00mm "1 ez llvtr and
25 feet without having hit the hanging
wall yet.
Tho wagon road Is yet soft and it
Is probablo that ore hauling will not
eoinmenco for another week when
twenty teams will bo put on, with
tho probability of being increased
soon as conditions Improve.
0S.2 per cent lead. A part of a ship
ment Is nlready sacked.
The Hay Stato has been mapped by
an engineer and will soon bo survey
ed for patent. The company now has
over $10,000 In Its treasury. Sovcral
more men were put to work on tho
property this week, and from now on,
the most nctlvo campaign In Its his
tory will bo pushed.
VI 1
no .moxi:y to mriiii) koad.
At tho county commlssloucers meet
ing this week tho petition from mining ,
companies in Amorlcan Fork canyon 1
asking for an extension of tho pros
etcounty road to tho Pacific Mining
nni' Milling company's property, the
board ngrccd to take over and main
tain tho road, when built, and hava
surveys for tho road mndo; but, on
account of tho stato of the treasury,
cbuTd not "build Itho Kmil ","
GREAT WESTERN STOCK :
LISTED ONEXCHANGE :
Groat Western Mines Company stock
was listed on the mining exchange
Monday. Tho required statement '
shows that Jesse Knight is president, '
wltllo V. 1.. Mangum Is secretary and ,;
treasurer. This is a merger of tho ,
Mountain Lake, Great Western and
Thor properties In American Fork and '
and the Cottouwoous.
There aio 1.G0O.O0O siinres of 10 ,
cents par value. Tho treasury con
tains 230,000 shares and 110 ensh. The
debts aio ?C03ti.ia. Tho company owns
ninety-elght mining claims. Tho do.
velopmeuts consist of COO feet of
shafts, S500 of tunnels, 200 of winzes,
150 of raises and 2,000 of crosscuts.
No men nro now employed and thoro
Is no special equipment. Tho ore
found Is gold, silver, copper nud lend.
There Is no cstlmato or ore in sight.
Ten cars of copper ore have been
shlpped.wlth no rccoid of others. Tho
company has n transportation agree
ment with tho Snake Creek company
for use of tho 11,000-foot tunnel.
CANYON STOCKS ON
SALT LAKEjXCHANGE
American Fork Canyon stocks aro
among tho most nctlvo ones on tho
Salt I.ako Exchange. Eight of them
are now being traded In actively jnd
hardly a session Is held but what all
record sales, almost everyono of them
show advances 0110 week over anoth
er. Ruling prices for tho week wcro:
F.arl-F.nglo 23 cents
Great Western 22 cents
Miller Hill 20 cents
Texan 2C cents
Major Fvans 8 cents
Day State 8 cents
Whirlwind S'A cents
Mineral Fiat 71A cents
There has also been considerable
trading In unlisted docks, Including
Olobu Consolidated at 7 cents, llelor
plian at 8 cents and .Alpine Empire I
22 35$i$3SS!Bfeas-!
Canyon's Activity
Greatest in State
' THIRTEEN MINES NOV WORKING, OR WITH TREAS
j URIES FULL, READY TO WORK, AND SIXTEEN OTH
ERS WHO HAVE GIVEN PERSONAL ASSURANCES
OF COMMENCING ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT WORK
IMMEDIATELY.
A Canyon l'nhlieih meeting was held in the City Hall Alon
1 da evening, when a report by the committee was made, and
. showed the results of the publicity cainpaiKn to be more than
,sMisfnetory. In the past four months, over .10,000 copies of
The Citizen have been sent out and many thousands of letters,
uuiii- etc.. have been mailed drawing attention to the ennyon.
,The result is that thirteen properties have their treasuries fill
ed with nionev sufficient for from one to years' activedevelop
iiicnt work. 'Some of them are already producing mines, and
every one of them are legitimate properties with excellent chan
,..,e of milk-in"- biir mines.
ces of making lug mines.
Following Is the list:
Tho Toxnn, Whlilwind, Karl-Eagle,
Day State, Major Evans, llolorphnn,
Olobo CoiiBolIdntotl, Pittsburg. Alplno
Empire, South Park, Pacific. Wasatch
Itango and Pacific Extension.
Ilesdles these, tho secretary report
ed that many othorg had glvou him
porsonal nsEurancos Hint they wore
being financed and would have inou at
work on thoir proportion before
another month. Following nvo in
cluded in this list: Tho Mary Ellen.
Miller Hill, Wnli Contonial, Silver
Flat, Deer Creok Consolidated. Mor-cer-Stowait.
Minornl Flat. Henley.
Dutchman, Trinnnman, Ilrooklyn.
Sinugglor, Horoshoe. Oabome. Holoy,
Hog and tho Comstnck. This makoa
a total of twenty mlno proportlos that
.MAY IIUIM) MMV HOAH. ,
Thoro is an agitation to build n now
1011.1 from tho Dutchman to tho Pacl-
, Thv old road Is on tho cast aldo
01 ia ....... hue 1 b ..n enuring
niueli trouMo becauuo u ...J- f ' J
a.id wished out bridges It w'H cost
about $1,000 to build n now road on
tho wont side for n dlstnnoo of 0110
mile, but when roinploted It would
I, open considerable longer and be
0 much better grade and nvold tho
.troubles above referred to Tho Paci
fic mine ha-) olfcred to plve 300 to
wnrdn 'he rhnnre
will bo either taking out the ore, or
going after It. by tho beginning of
summer, and not one of them is In
any senso a "wild cat" proposition.
Tho canyon Is rnpldly filling up with
prospectors and evory avnllnblo frac
tion within tho mineralized area Is
being located, so that It la safe to pre
dict that thore will bo tho greatest
activity In Amorlcan Fork Canyon of
any mining district In tho state. Ono
speaker predicted that within n year
the ennyon would havo tho blRMt
mine In the stnto and more 010 avail
able for shipment than tho Cotton
woods. The incoliiiK voted unamlnously o
contlnuo tho publicity work for anoth
er period, nnd every citizen, ns well
as tho business men will bo Klven sn
opportunity to subscribe to It.
MERCER PROPERTY
IS INCORPORATED.
Silver l-ikc Consolidated Min
ing nnd Milling compnny has filed
articles of Incorporation with the
county clerk. Tho compnny' prlncl
apl plnco of business Is at American
Fork. The apltal Mock ! $10.0.
divided Into 1,000,000 Mmroi of the
par value of ono cent each, based on
tbo valuation of the White minim:
claim nnd 13 other cMm in S'l"
Lake mining district
Tlir director nnd ofllcrn arc J J
Mnr-r prr-ldrnt J T Mcrerr Jr
' 93 I - J.1 ijl. 1 1 " , J
a-SKi u; a A " " ' mA
p;H I P M A N ' S I 1
W$ CASH PRICES COVJxNT t '1
w$ j I
IB . QUESTIONS OF IMPORTANCE 10 ; I
fPn Which One Are You Interested in J ,fl
vElfe N0' 1 N0, 2 N0, :1 N0, ' ' fH
tBtife,-Praan MCr C" DOn,t yU neCd 80m T" Moimrch SUo1 Now Is u good llmo to J .';
T paptto raoko room Lawn Hose or Sprlnk. Uango l tho best on m8
WeliVncw Lumber lors, Lawn Mowers, the market, up-to-date, ,m' nn ol1 Stovo get rJ
' flBriykSdlngs nro off- Grass Catc'ior or Sjirny Fuel savers p.n.l moder- u-iidy for tho hot sum- jH
V '-yiQlVl 0,u onos at ' lmvo tllL" nl1 !,t- ate prlcos Lonk nt t'iB
faf5BlEI)U('Tlt)X. LOW I'ltH'llS. Iliem uet time. "0' mm
vlwf5h' u ; l lM
"l?fv N0- 5 N0- C N0 7 '
t i ul'G9, w,,on wo buv You ought to Fee our Tho Now Laco Curtains j-Sfl
JHll'" 0gn,n nr b0"ml l b I.l"o'inns, we bought and tho latest Patterns ill
ilk' fii- higher why not get , , , , ,, ,, . qJ09
a- -1 yfti, " largo amount beforo In Wall Papor aro mo3t T JNUl
"WitH' ' 5'0UIS beforo the ad- JM
- 1ttRl'jJj vance "l0 ni,vnnc. beautiful to look upon. WSm
' Vs lift1 1 ! I 1 1H
f?affll " N0, 8 N0, -181
4 MB 'I- Those Summer L. I). S. Clilldreu's Straw HaUi . ?H
V ?MK?ir- " -Garden and Field !ffl
T'-Alir Gaiments for 0'Je ate straw Hats - Panama j, dWL
A rvwHi Hko most stores charge Hals and nil kinds for tWt
h f ffi you $L00 for. 1,ot withcr--Co up to Ol
i, mm-' $,!m 'a!
il&ll ' 1 M
Hfijv N-10 j m
'Mw4G Covurnlls, It 0111 pel a, S w DN
Sft- Tjf Ovcralln. Hag Hats. 3 Rj yg
'lTS .U Cottonndo pants nnd fi jp "I
" iraS Kha-kl Trousors. .F SH
M t IS
T;Spmaiis Big Red Store tl
MERIOAN FORK,, UTAH, "THE BUSINESS CENTER." ;1 I
vlco president: Charles Mercer, secre
tary nnd treasurer; T. A. l-o nnd C
M. Deck. (
This jirojicrty lies south of tho Enrl
Eaglo nnd west of tho Major Evans.
In tho Sllvor Lako section of tho dis
trict. So far thoro has boon llttlo
work dono on tbo propcity, but tho
ownors dccluro their Intention of going
after tho 01 0 at an early date.
n
PROMINENT MINING MEN
VISIT CANYON MIS
Now that tho roads arc getting In
condition, prominent mining men from
the outsldo nro coming in. This week
Sonntor Wootton took J. A. Mc.lwco,
tho biggest tunnel contractor In tho
west, Mr. Hauklo, a Cincinnati cap
italist and George O. Holt of the Hotel
i'tah up Hie canyon. After visit lug
the Pacific nnd Hay State they went
back to Salt Lako and mnde heavy
Investments In Hay Stato and Miller
Hill.
Sunday Attorney Gustln of Salt Lake
nnd a New Haven, Conn., capitalist
accompanied Charley Doolittlo on nn
inspection of tho Pacific and leturn
Ing declared It tbo coming big mine of
the state.
o
LOCATi: SILICA MILS
IX, TOOL'Li: COUSTV.
Last woek William Thornton and
somo Salt Lako and "other parties lo
cated Homo Immonsa beds of fine si
lica wind In Tooolo county near whoro
ilu old ovorland trail crosses the
through line of tho Salt Lake Itoute
The silica is said to bo Ideal for R'at-s
manufacturing purposes.
o
BOLEY MINING CO.
LATEST IN FIELD
LiiciiU'd in Henri of Jlliieml .one
Will Stmt Work Through Tcvan
Tunnel.
J Tho Holoy Minim? Co., owning
I alRlity acres of well locntod territory
!in tho hoart of thu mineralized zouo
U tho lntst proprty lo got organized.
fin.. need and ready for action Work
'will no prosecuted from a fhaft that
he hen tunic on a well mineralized
n-juro nnd nrranrcment 1 have been
Twenty Thousand " U
Dollars Paid for
Stewart Property m
MERCER-ROUNDY INTERESTS ACQUIRE PHEONIX fl
MINE AND WITH ENLARGED COMPANY WILL COM- H
MENCE ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT WORK. ;H
Tlu Alcrci'i-Slcwjut Alin'nif,r Company will be orani'ed $
and ready for active business within 11 week. It will be ono of $
the be.sl financed and most actively developed properties in ';
the canyon this summer. It lias some of the best property in 'iW
the Deer Creek-Silver Lake section of the district. It is 11 S
coalition of the Phconix Alining and Alilling Company, former- tm
ly owned by Airs Al. J. Stewart, and the Alercer group owned ftM
by Amnion Alercer and surrounding the Pheonix on tbree sides. 'jM
Jioth protierlies have fine showings of gold, silver, lead and AM
copper and the Pheoniv 1ms many feel of tunnels, air compress-
or, machinery, etc. jjfl
The Stewa'f property was sold Wednesday to the new $
owners tor a ( nsideration of $20,000. Alessrs. Arercer and m
?oundy are the central figures in tbo deal and associated willi 'MM
thorn aro such prominent mining men and capitalists ns Frank. !B
V. Taylor, Samuel Y. Taylor, Frank .Jurdinc, AI. .1. Aroran, AL jM
A. Wild, At. A. Smith and others. M
Samples of the ore from wbich returns were secured yes- 'Mm
terduy showed 101 ounces in silver and IIT.O )er cent load. .It 1
is lie intention to start a dozen men at work at once, some of SS
them running a tunnel on the contact below tho old workings im
and the others sinking the shaft on the Stewart vein. Wv
made to prospect the ground nlso
through tho Texan tunnel which prop- ,
erty It sdjolns on the wost. I
The Uoley property, lies bolow and
to the southeast from tho old Miller ,
mlno on the top of Mlllor hill that In (
the early days of tho district produced (
approximately $2,000,000 worth of ore. ,
approximately $1,000,000 worth of oro
being tnkon out of two pockotB near I
the siirfncu. Later, CharloH Tyng and ,
nswnlatos took out approximately $1,
000,000 worth of oro whllo loaslng tho
property. Tho old Mlllor mine lien
about 1B00 feet to tho northwost of
tho Holey proporty, which ndJoiiiB tho
Texan, now being dovolopcd by Mr.
Tyng To tlip southonst lies tho old
Dutchman mine, credited with a pro
duction of approximately $1 000.000
The limestone brdi coirtltuto the
mineralized zone the r.triko of tin
ore-benrlug llmostonOM being custody ml
and westerly and dipping to tho south, M
duo to tho uphoavnl that was rospon- Wm
slblo for Mlllor hill. Hy driving nbout M
COO feet from tho Toxnn tunnel tho til
Holey property will bo entered nt 11 K9
vortical depth of about COO foot from ' ym
tho surface. til
Tho Holoy Mining compnny is cap- E9
ltallzcd for 1,000,000 shares, par value H
10 cents, and thoro aro 400,000 shares H
In tho treasury. K O. Jonsou Is pros!- fl
dent. J. A. Stnlllngn Is snerotary nnd ffl
treasurer, Charles llond is vlco prosl- H
clout, who, with J. A. Woodmansco H
! nnd A. M. Chenoy, form tho director- H
ate. It Is understood that soma of
tho strongest Interests In Utnh nro S
Motkholders In tho company and Hint ' ''
the stock la to bo Hrtcd In tho very '
near future on the Salt Lake stock
and mining exchange
