OHIO oTATE
UNIVERSITY
MAY2.V.0 o
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, MAY 20, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 5
One Dollar a Year
!.e-
i
Supreme Court Upholds Capitalists,
Who Are Fighting Union Labor
High Court Extends Principle of Criminal Conspiracy to All Cases
Involving the Element of Violence.
The Building Trades Council
Reversal of County Tribunal Is Declared To Be a Sweeping Victory in Favor of
Those Who Are Endeavoring to Crush Union Labor.
Hold Regular Meeting. Attempt Made to Unionize the
New Speedway Job In So Far as the Building
Trades Crafts Are Concerned. Only
Routine Business Transacted.
Columbus, Ohio In harmony with
many decisions that hap come from
Supreme Court during the last three
j cars was a ruling concuired in by all
the seven Justices, in which are laid
down further principles of law design
ed to piotcct society from criminal con
spirators. The Court sustained excep
tions taken by Prosecuting Attorney
John V. Campbell, Hamilton County, to
the ruling of the trial Court in the case
of State crsus llerbcit Doty and pie
pared the way for a retrial of the case
The victory which Prosecutor Camp
bell won is a sweeping one, and the rul
ings are square rcersals of those made
in the couise of the trial that resulted
in a failure to reach a verdict in the
Doty case. Of the several propositions
that appear in an able and exhaustive
opinion written by Justice Thomas A.
Jones perhaps the most important is that
in relation to conspiracy.
liccausc Gabriel Sullivan fired the shot
which killed James Shall the trial couit
charged that if it was found that the
shot was fired without the knowledge
and connivance, of Doty the jury must
(erpntr " -"" -z'-i r sw
Kxtenils Principle of Conspiracy.
Supreme Court, however, holds that if
it he established that Doty entered into
a conspiracy to use deadly weapons, the
probable effect of which would be to
take human life, he was guilty of mur
der, notwithstanding the fact that he
was ignorant of the particular overt
act.
In effect the principle of the criminal
conspuac in burglar cases, which has
been accepted genciallv b the Courts
of the land, it extended to cases involv
ing the clement of violence In popular
language, it may be said that the Court
has brought forth a bit of law on the
wisdom of keeping out of bad com
liauj or participating in illegal plots.
It was held that Don's signed confes
sion, including the 1 elation of what he
did after he left Cincinnati, was all
competent to go to the juiy. The trial
Court had excluded it. It was held, also,
that neither side had the right to send
the confession to the jury, but that if
the Judge had sent the confession to
the jur it would not have reversed un-
-f -- 4- -
f
To the Carpenters of Hamilton
.A.
County
Place Yourself In This Fix
.Suppose tlint tin Curpenteis Intel a strike ami one of jour
members, who was drunk at the time, hit a seal) in the head with
u scantling; anil killed him, would that .lustily the Prosecutor to
arrest all Carpenters who were present, indict, them lor first de
gree murder ami use all his InMiience ami power, both olllriallj'
anil personally to put them in the electric chair?
THAT'S WHAT JOHX V. CAMIMMOLL 1)11) TO Till: UXIOX
I'AIXTT.KS.
He tried Herbert Dotj', one of the accused, anil the jnrj" stood
ten for acquittal ami two for conviction.
DOTY HAS IHCKX IX JAIL SIXCK DKCKMHKIL 12, 1015.
i
Regular meeting of the Iiuilding good offices to unionize the job and that
Trades Council was called to order last he had also called upon Mr E J
llutrstlaj night with Vice-President Roberts, who promoted the Speedwa,
I'lschcr in the chair and that he had promised to take the
The minutes of the previous meeting matter up with the contractors at once,
were read and adopted. recognizing the fact that the fiftv thou-
Commtmication from Local L'l-', In- sand union men and their friends' refuse
tcrnational Brotherhood of Electrical to patronize the Speedwa it would be
Workeis, stated that Patrick J Cos. has a great drawback to its 'financial sue
been appointed a delegate to the Council cess
Brother Cox being present he was dulv Business Agent Hock read his report
obligated which was ordered received and filed.
A letter from Mden E. Smith, busi- The Composition Roofers reported
ncss manager of the Building Trades that thev had signed a new agreement
Council of Springfield, Ohio, was read, with the Jacob Freund Compan, which
whciein he recited that he and Thomas the hoped would be lived up to bv
II. Mugavin had taken up the matter of that Companv ; thev also reported that
scab work on the new Speedwa now the Cincinnati Roofing Companv has
under course of construction Upon mo- been unfair to them and that thev would
Hon this communication was laid over not furnish am more union labor to
and was taken up under good and wcl- them until the matter was settled
fare, when Brother Hock explained that 11 trades reported business good
he had called upon Mr E W Edwards, nd there being no further business
President of the Speedwa Compan, before the Council the meeting adjourn-
and that he had promised to use his ed until next Thursdaj night.
Sheet Metal Workers
.-rvrt,i).n.JM.:i-J--'CHlKt.-lii-ltepliis SihiiK2i:d.t!iUxOv,Iitiit-iu .jiil-i'.iti-.ii" i .-
Hold Three-Day Conference, Representing Two Hundred
refuses to permit them bail so tlnv can suppoit their families.
would hi: kkkp tiii: imixtkic isossks ix jail uxdkk
Till': sami: COXDITIOXS?
You ate interested, Mr. Carpenter, this is a big fight by the
capitalist to t rush out Union Labor ami to put the fear ot Camp
bell in their hearts so that they will not dare to strike lor their
lights.
Cutler these conditions will jou vote lor John Y. Campbell
ami condemn jour brothels to the electric chair tor a crime they
tlitl not commit, or will jou vote for the rights ol Cnion Labor
and any capable man who will inn against Campbell?
II you are a Republican vote for all the rest ot the ticket but
Campbell. You owe it to Organized Labor. Head our "Xotite to
Cnion Labor," on page -1.
-f - -f -f-f -f -f -M-M- --
EIGHT-HOUR STRIKERS
ARE STANDING FIRM
Pittsbuig, Pa The thousands of
cight-boui strikcis in this district aic
les there was in it matter prejudicial to standing him in then demands foi be tci
STATE BOARD RULING
OPPOSED BY UNIONS
of the Largest Cities in the United States Fred
Hock Presented With a Diamond Stick Pin.
Worcester, Mass. I he State Board
of Conciliation and ibitiation has
issued a "certificate of noimahtv" to the dent of the Building trades Council
Representatives of Sheet Metal Work- Worth. Texa-. Eighth Vice-President,
ers' Unions in the United States and Robert Bvron, Springfield, III.; Harrv
Canada and international officers, who , Stewart, Kansas Citv, Kan, and James
are holding a three d.i.vs' meeting in Cm-1 Rvan, Buffalo, General organizers, -do
ciunati, were guests at a dinner last are in attendance
night at Ratteimaun's Hall, Twelfth and I It was regretted that Prank Rist. or
Walnut streets, of Locals 141 and 2S4 ganizcr 'f the merican I ederation of
of the sheet metal workers' orgamza-'
lion of this citv. Nearl !00 persons1 -
were in attendance Pred Hock, Third
International Vice-President of the or
ganization and President of Local 141,
presided.
Addresses on the histor of the Sheet
Metal Workers' Union and the laboi
movement in general were made b John
J. Hnes, Boston, International Presi
dent; John E. Bra, Kansas Cit.v, Mo,
General Secretar.v ; Thomas Redding
Chicago, First International ice-Prei-
dent; Joseph Cullcn, Cincinnati, iJresi-
IUS UlUI i; ,lt III IL III.IL1..1 III V.J I.II1..1..I LU , . , , , , rr l-.su... I .. tinuumi " " .- -- - ,
the defendant On this single point the working conditions, despite eve. effort Knowlcs Loom Works, and George Mobs Cincinnati, Chairman
tiial Court, which refused to send ,hc o break their ! auks b stukc thugs, and C ompto " N ; -k f ' of the local Sheet Metal Workers I-xe-
confession is upheld ktrgc advertisements and "fncnillj ad- whose cmplojcs have Dcen on stiiwc ioi cmm Hoard
' ' vice" editorials in local newspapers luian eight-hour da.v and wage liicieascs A cabaret show was a featuie of the
Declares Kvitlcucr
entertainment. Gu llecker
niipioper. i advertisements puimsiieu nv tnc lunplov-1 i, n,i,, evenings
Sunrune Court held that where the i ci s' Association of Pittsburg the stnkcis .... ' . . , ' . .... .... .. , 'well-known entertainer, appearing in a
defendant was one of the agrcssors and ( are assured that the shoitci workda "is ' "c Utc law provi ties ui.u "u. .. nun,)Cr f stunts, and James Rvan. liuf-
thc victim was, to use the legal term, I not foi the best inteicsts ot the cmplojc strike exists the cmplovcr must state fa0i jn several parodies. Robert Kuhl
"within the peace of the State," and no or the cmplojci," and that "it would be this fact when advertising foi cmplo.ves 'man presided at the piano
evidence of self-defense had been in-. a tcniblc blow to Pittsbuig pi ospcritv . muntlment to this law. however, Harrv Dorse, on behalf of local In
to curt ul production ' . . ions 141 and 2h I, presented international
Anothet oigaiuzation, sthng itself i"uvm' l1" President llvnes with two large vac-
troduecd. it was improper for the Court
to admit evidence of threats made b
persons other than the defendant.
It was competent of the State after a
conspirac, prima facie, had been estab
lished, to show that on the da after
the homicide money w.ts paid the de
fendant in connection with his flight
This evidence was barred at the trial
Pied Hock.
"The pi ovisions of this act shall cease jn appreciation of his services for the
organization, the two local unions pre-
-cntcd Prcd Hock with a diamond stick- Labor, and editor ot 1 lie Chi.
STOP COMIMIXSATIOX CUTS.
Philadelphia. Referee Scott of the
State Compensation Board has ruled that
where ? worker is a member of a piofit
sliaring fund and receives benefits foi
inj tnics through the Woikmcn's Com
pensation law, no portion of this money
shall be deducted and placed in the fund
The technical point laiscdb the in
surance adjusters for the Ford Motor
Compan. of this city, was that under a
plan in effect among all cmplocs of that
concern the paid $i a week into the
profit-sharing fund from wages or an
sick or accident benefits the might draw
I he adjusters allowed an injured woikcr
$10 for the first two weeks he was hurt,
then cut him to 8 mulct their decision
that the balance should go into the fund
Referee Scott ruled that this conflicted
with the compensation law The de
cision applies to all sunilai profit-sharing
or bonus agreements
' I lio Mii.ii n I1n.il tcni ritinii
nounces, in large advertisements, that !M to be opeiative when the State Boajd of
pei cent ol tlic stnUcis want to i etui n ' Conciliation ami viiiiir.iiioii sn.iu uuu
.,, .. ,,.i- .1, ,. ii.n, i, ,,,. ,, .,,;.., .,,,,,. I.,, i mmn tli-ii tin- limitless of the cmnlovcr.
t,. .,r, i ,.... ... ....I.;,....., iiimimii iu I in . f ..urn i i ii uliuli the strike or otliei a. .i, .,.,,r cc.!mK n! tin. mm- among the Inurnat.ora! onie i
lll-J ill v. ni.jrv ill Tiiij.i-ti iiiiuuii iiiv .'(.- - i i I ill till, wjfVMitif, iji.jjhiij . v..- ... . .
lcmaining 10 per cent " I lus bquare lalior trouliles occuircu, is iieiug e.uueu ,,, jlMerdaj representatives reported a insappuimcu wni-u un. .cu
Den Assoc .ltinn." t he nil i ic is lot. on 111 t 10 normal ,1111 usual m.iuuei .urn , ..v.c.ni.r .-oik ltions in t IC various Cll- rraiiK was siei
pin
unable to be premt Manv old
'. vv i
II ( 1 its
V, I.
,' i' at
'consists of citizens who aie dctei mined , to the normal and usual extent Said
Other international officers in at- Tuesdav after the morning
to protect their rights. For obv ions rca- ! hoard shall determine tins question as tclui,,ncc at the meeting besides President the visitors were taken on an
4 i i 1 ll. !.-.,. nn nl
sous we will not tlisclose then names" I soon as may ne, upon me- appui.tuuu ...
'I he United States Steel Corporation I the eniplojer."
is using its power in a iclentlcss manner j Untlci this amendment the State Board
Scores of these unoiganized woikcrs are i tiles that the Ciompton S. Knowlcs eon
hcing held without bail on the charge of ccin has resumed its noimal conditions
inciting to not and being acccssoiy to I and the law lelatne to advertising foi
murder as a-icsult of the killing and cmplojcs docs not applj 'I he strikers
wounding of strikers Ma a. The guards tlcn.v that the plant is operating under
who hied the shots are still tmplojcd at I noimal conditions and protest against
the Edgar Thompson steel plant the board's action The s,i this stat-
Tlm morn rh.irirn tli.it .i stnknr "incited . ulo was intended to be of set vice to
i it
... .. ., ,... - I. .... i.
llltl I'irst vice- one rule to e-auip wciun-uu n it .
John O linen, bur Hue, proprietor ot tne -mho tin
t.
I hues, Sccrotarj Bra
Trfc.ilont K'edilin!' nre
Memphis. Second Vice-President; Otto acted as host.
Hoard, Kansas Cit.v, Kan, Fifth Vice- Wednesdav was devoted entirelv
President, antl William Weiitworth, M. nusiness sessions
to not is sullicicnt c.tuse to Hold mm
without bail In this class of incitement
is placed appeals to workers not to re
turn to work, ami a statement of con
ditions under which these emplines arc
compelled to labor In refusing bail to
several strikers, Judge Ambrose B Reitl
said "The Coroner saw lit to order their
arrest, antl 1 am not going to release
them so the can go out and cause more
trouble"
These influences are also shown
against organized strikers
woikcrs m their effort to nnpiovc con
ditions, but it has lost its fotcc under
present rulings which are made without
conference with the men on strike The
Worcester Labor News sa.vs the decision
practical! declares the stnke off, as far
as the State is concerned
rmcd with its "certificate of normal-
itv," the Crompton & Knowlcs manage
TCXAS I'XIOXISTS COXKKII.
Houston, Texas t the Convention
imim:xr sicxs, hill
Washington
President Wilson has
- i, iiiv S.U..1....."-. - ;-. . ..,
of the State Fcdeiation of Labor the signed tnc joint resolution to prim uie
following preferential legislative mcas- final report, the exhibits and tcstimonv
tires w ci e adopted Coirection of the submitted to Congress b.v the recent
Workmen's Compensation Act, a law Commission on Industrial Relations
ci eating a commission to establish n The exhibits will comprise three vol
inmimum wage for women, a model tunes, the report one volume, and tlic
ii. I.... ..t..,l.iirr ificficrtinn n rnn- tcstimonv seven volumes uu uiuusmu
stitutional amendment abolishing poll
tax, a free text book law for Texas
school children lulwarti cunninguam,
ment can now point to tins state tiocti- i uiulgcport, was eiecteii rrcsiuem, .um
ment in its denial of the woikcrs- claim Ocorgc 11 Matei, Ci.ilvcston, neiretarj
that usual conditions do not exist in this Treasurei 1 ort W orth was selected as
plant or that a strike reall exists UCt v car's convention citv
copies o the exhibits and the tcstimonj
will be printed and 100,000 copies of the
icport The latter consists of recom
mendations of the various groups of the
commission The documents will be di
v ided among Congressmen and Senators
for ftec distribution
