The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. FRApCSIVILLSL WiST PFLICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA. SATURDAY, MA 10 NO.
Wanted 10,000 Men
To Read Every Line of This Wonderful Ad.
The 20 or :10 minutes you spend in reading this ad is the most profitable time you ever
spent. Eve~ry item is positively just as stated-every reduction is an honest reduction.
If we say an article is worth $2 and sells for $1, you can bet your life it's a fact. Every
dollar's worth of merchandise in this ad is bought special for this sale-and bought un
de'rprice. We know, and you know, that all merchandise is going up every day. To be
brief, the war in Europe has done more than make history-it has said "NO" to com
mtertct. How big that "NO)" is, most of us have yet to learn, but we all are finding out
daily. In the face of the simplest things going up, up, up in price-and we selling this
merchandise cheaper than you could have bought it a year ago-makes this a most phe
nomenal sale.
MEN, DON'T WAIT--DON'T HESITATE-BUY NOW-AND BUY ITN QUANTITIES
Thees are greater values than will be possible again, perhaps for years. In fact, when
most of these lots are closed out we won't be able to duplicate them at the price we're
selling them. It is the opportunity of the year. Buy your wants for an entire season.
Everty dollar you spend means one dollar saved.
Special Sale of Men's Wash Suits
MEN'S GENUINE PALM BEACH SUITS in light and If we told you what they're worth today, you would
dark solid colors: fancy, regular and pinch.belt backs. hardly believe, it. Absolutely all wool blue serge.
The same suits you see in other stores at fl4 5 gray serge and fancy worsted suits, some have two
$7.50 and $5.60. Extra special at ........ pair trousers They are the best values the markets
HSee thlee suits in our w inelows mcne ien and examinel afford. even if you paid $20 for them. You will buy
them n'olreilwlr. tlhe, with tihee, offnered by other a suit just as sure as you see, them. All siszes, regular,
store, tiand you will find that the)'re better for less long and stouts. Take your pick of the bunch at $15.
Isrnet.y Every sulit has a re'gistered "PAILM lEIACII"
la.I in the' collar Eltver gartne.nt hand tailored and SOLE AGENT FOR HIGH ART CLOTHES
guaranlte'ed to fit They)re positively the best values FOR MEN AND YOUNG MEN.
te',r offered. Actual $7 ot and $8 5o values. Special The beat clothes made at the price. Every suit sold
for this sale. $4.95. under a gilt-edge guarantee of abeolute satisfaction
YOU NEVER SOUGHT SUITS $1500 or your money refunded. Suits from $15 to ,6, and
LIKE THESE BEFORE FOR worth more.
SPECIAL SUMMER SHIRT Men's 7te Neglgee' for sellinag o and 76e Underwear
SALE. Shirts at ............... for 26c. The reason: These gaI
Men ,'s $l. i Negllge 9e ments are from a high-grad.e fae
We' (dnl't misuse the' word "Sp1144. Shirts al........ tory that gsves each and every
Isl. what we' m ane wlhen t we' a Ments $.'.i H14 ilk Negl 100 rmen.rt turned out by them the
I'pcrinl ,linee undetr regular prie" gare Rhirts at .. I most rigid inspection and the
tha.t Is what n o will fined il Men's 1. $ Tub Milk 50 least defect causes them to be put
the' e'hirte. "il VAhLUES I'N U N Neglige Shirts at . 3 aside, and these are known as
IDER Pl'I('." We guarantee "factory burts"--that is the gar
that every garment mentloneeed GET YOURSELF A NEW ments we are ofering you. It
unde'r the' word sIcial to be less STRAW LID. * takes an expert to see what's
than you 'an bue its equal ele" ligge'st anid best value 98c wrong and whatever it is, It does
where. ever ºffe-red at ........ not hurt the wearing quality of
Men's c Negligee Shirts, some Other Straw Hits up to $4.00. the garment. Pine soft mull.
with separate soft ellars. c. SPECIAL SAL ALE OF SUMMER satin plaid, cheek nainsoot, mer
UNDERWEAR. cerised madres, etc., garments in
With the prices going up on this lot positively sold for 7Tc.
eve.rything with dye in it, and Yteu can't buy the material by the Extra speclal, 25
with neo colors guaranteed. we )ard as cheap as we will sell you each ..................
offe'r for this sale, Me'n's Soft tife garment during this sale. Men's SOc Plaid Union 39
Ne'glicge' Shirts. guarantee'd color Every garnent well madf-, full Suits at ............
antd material. coat styles, soft eit and guaranteed. Men's 76e Web Seam
t'iff, *eparaht, coltar aend full site'.
ef' . sparate u iy ' ar ang d full stet Men's 0c and 7k Athletis Shirts Nainsook Union Suits at
and Kee Drawers, extra Men's 265 Athletic ('oat Shlrts
Mineee' t. ..A 3 'e e e know there nmlulbt be a reason at 19..........
Phenomenal Shoe Sale
teoeee P'Allt 4' NII()ol, FPtflt MEN. W(OMIEN AND f'lill.)REN, at prices far lower than the market price
nwarrants If we. we.re' to go iette oelce market today, uleder the existing conditions, with everything that
Igoe's eLlto ehe's golIee Ii. w,' weculd ce cempelled in many inlstances to pay more than the price we are
asktlig. YVe Irofit by our early purchases and powe'r of buying for cashr . There are shoes and shaoes,
some yoiu raee i',ey for $1.50 and other,, that will cost you 10. so price don't always count. The object is
to get $| worthl for a dollar |elut we will Ilve you more than that-in some eases It's more than two for
one. ('one he.re., give them the once-over and you'll be more than pleased with the values.
WOMEN'S S2 WHITE PUMPS, $1.11. MISSES' $1.0 WHITE SLIPPERS, k.,
Woceene's White ('anvs ('clonrlal Pumps, with white llIg Misses' White ('Canvas Raby Doll Pumps, good
canvas heela, oe,,e of Ithe most Ipopular of summer leather sole and heels, made to sell regular at $1.60.
footwear, worth $ 1 5 SpecIal sale prIce a5
SpecIal the pair....... the lair ................... h a......
WOMIEN'S $4 PATENT PUMPS0, S2.. WOMEN'S ls BRONZE PUMPS, 8Ws.m
Wonne'r'n t'atc'nt KhIl Pulmps', with black cloth quar- Women's Bronze Beaded Pumps. with turn soles iad
hter and lestep straps, turn soles, high Spanish heels, hih prench heels, a high grade make that sells
re'gulnr $4 ,alue. 2 15 regularly st $0O. 095
tra serial. thee paIr ....... . .... our price per pair.......................
WOMEN'S WHITE CANVAI AND NUsUCK WOMEN'S $5.80 TAN OXFORDS, $1)t
PUMPS, $1.25. Women's Tan Button Oxfords and Pumps, turn or
Goodyear welt soles, plain and ecp toes; a poeltive
teo lpair of tie. very te'west I. footwear of Women's $3.54, and $4.00 vale.
Whitei ('anis acid Nubuck Punlps. In welts and tura Extra speciali the pair. ..................
soles. All mIItel Ied i.tlhe. tlR,'ad this item ovPr MEN'S $8.5 TAN OXFORDS, $1S.5
carefully and think what a great sa~lnl this is. 25o pair Men's Tan Blieber Oxfords with metdium
Poelive $4 values. $125 hish toe and medium heels. positively $
Extra spcal the pair. . ...... 'worth $8.75. atra ipeclial. ............. 9
GLOVES. SOCKS. HANDKERCHIEFS,
Men's White ('anvas Work Glh)oves. Mi's Past CFolor Seamless Socks, Mea's Hematitched White Cam
the kind that sells for ltO. reguhtlar 10e kind. bric Handkercbeefs, regular
8 pcral at. ....5..... ......M! i|Ir . ecal, the .t .... 5c kn da. IIe l - . . . . 3c
SHIRTS. Men's past Color, full Seamless PANTIS.
Men's black aced White Stripe'd Socks, excellent value I Mes Khaki Work Pants, alM
Work Shirts in all site'. s at 1k. Speclal the pair. lU sizes, waist and length;
full cut. Speclal eacsh 5c GARTERSL $1 kind. Special the pair
Men's Blue Bell Work shirts. Men's LIsle Web Pad Ls Gar. Men's BY' e Pta ('hec Work
regular Se kland. ter,, rregular 2ak kld. Pats, regular value.
SlpecIal each ............ 5 xtra. pecia, the par.r. .1 Sl elil the pair......... c
FARRNBACHER'S
BATON ROUGE, LA.
RuAn (I. Pleasant took the oath of
oae asGovernor of Lutlusan at 12: 1
o'elock Monday, nla the State House
grouands, Baton Rouge, where a long
liae of former governors had attested
their fealty to the constitution of the
State. The oath was administered by
Chief Justlce raLnk A. Monroe, in the
presence of more than 5,000 people.
After the ceremony, Gov. Pleasant read
hs Inaugural address.
Equalisation of assessments and tax
atlon without change of system, elimi
nation of useless oaces, abolition of
the fee system and the encouragement
of immigration and manufacturing en
terprises were chief points in the ad.
dress. The new governor retrained
from discussing legislation except in
the matter of assesments and did not
intimate what his legislativ.e program
would be The message made no
reference to liquor legislation.
The capital was thrpnged with people
from all over tle State, and three
thousand persons attended the inaugu
ral ball, Monday night.
MINUTES OF SP$CIAL MEETING.
The School Board of West Feliciana
Parish met in a special called meeting
on Saturday, May 13, 1916. All mem
berm were present.
The Hoard was called to order by
President Bowman who also stated
that the primary object of the meeting
was to consider the proposition of rr
ideing the school term for this session
by two weeks.
The question was opened for general
discussion. The tw, main reasons ad
vanced for the artiil were (1) the
notice from State Superintendent Har
ris that no further aid for the high
school and the domestic science de
partmnent would be received this year,
and It) the fact that schools were
opened so late last tflt that the last
two weeks will be in June when the
weather is so warm that both teachers
and pupils will be unable to do their
best work.
The effect of such action on the
Julius rreyhan High School was dis
ussed. It was learned that there Is
some probability of the additional aid
for the hllgh school being received. In
that case, as the aid amounts to prac
tically the cost of running the high
school for two weeks and as the aid
would not be received, If available,
unless the high school is run the full
nine months, Mr. Argue made a me.
lion that all schools be closed two
weeks earlier than the regular date
ror closing and that the superintendent
be authorised to continue the high
school for the full nine months in case
Ihe additional aid for the high school
and domestle science departments Is
received. Motion seconded by Mr. John
son ('arred.
Judge (olan appeared before, the
toard and made a plea for the boys
who had recently been suspended and
uakedl that they be reinstated. In
wder thlpt the Board might sat nlateit
ently on this request, reports were
.alled for from Principal Bliss and
Iuperlntendent ('rump as to the causes
Df the suspension of the boys. After I
.earinl these reports, motion was I
made by Mr. ArguP, seconded by
Dr. Barrow, that the action of the
principal and faculty in dismling al
boys be sustraied, sad that the matter
af their retinstatement be left to the
Prineipal and Supertntendent. Motion
carried.
Supt. ('rump then asked for a short
xecutilve sesioe ef the Board. In this a
session several matters were discutased
hut no otflcal action was taken.
JA8. P. BOWMAN, President
, IC. C(RUMP, Becretary. 1
COMMUNITY DISLOYALTY.
( Monroe News-Star.)
A winadow card highly ornamental is
benlg distributed about Monroe and
there is nothlng about it that should
rbe the subject of other than favorable
aoment except that it bears the Ia
pritnt of a Glens Allen, Va., print*er,
ther his nothing unusual about the
lob; it told have been printed in e
itbher of the prtIattag o(lcesl in Mooroe.
The job ia small and the amount paid
gr it is of little coasequence, but thea
pretldo pleis just the sam. All of our
egralssed effort is or should be to I
leach by precept usad example the
riedom of keeptai every dollar at
home. The priaters of Monroe will pay
their share of the taxes it the rorad4 I
ar balt, the Olens Allea eocers will I
pay nothing, We are nset eosmphlntala,. I
we simply wish to mi attantlo to this It
o a bad eample of eenmmnty y arlty. I
WANTS DR. DOWUNG
TO HOLD HE PA
f (UpSltate Doctor, In Tlmes-Picayune l
S I note an effort is being made to re
e place Dr. Dowling as president of the
a LouIslana State Hoard of Health. Prom
i a medical man's viewpoint land a
e Pleasant man from the beginnlng), the
y new administration would be makina
Sa grievous mistake. I make this state
ment after a most careful relection
I on the many qualities necessary in a
physician to primarily satisfy the many
sided attitude of the medical profes
iseon of this state. Dr. Dowling comes
f as near doing so as any one I know of
t Personally, he is one of the most
popular public men In the state;
especially with the profession lie has
I made the omce of the president of the
Sitale hoard of Health one of the most
I important now held by a public man in
º the statel. and Is now regarded as a
naticnal figure capable If necessary to
fill the national position of chief of the
SIkplrtniment of Pure Foods and D)rulgs.
the department brought Mo consprll
ously before the public by )r. Wiley;
in tact. we physicitan look upon IDr
fowling as the Dr. Wiley of IAmisoiana
public health affairs.
Previous to the appointment of our
emlleent president of the koard of
Health, the public hardly knew e
had a State Board of Ilealth unless
yellow fever visited us, then the first
we knew of it was to gat its president's
scalp We all remember Ihis Now,
the efficiency of the department ilth
the aid of the health train has been
brought to our very doors, and many
has been the citizen who has been
benefited by visiting and taking his
family to view it As far as the to.
operation given his brother physicians
throughout the state, we have always
found hint willing and anxious to assist
us no matter what the problem. I am
of the Arm conviction that the oAcre
tinder discusson should be kept out of
polities. The recent statement given
the press by Dr. Iowling regarding
his reappointment is precisely the
stand the ethical physicians of this
state would have him adhere to
EMflciency should be the keylnote of
the incoming administration. D)emo
racy during the coming four years is
in the balance. Nearly fitty thousand
votes recorded against the party by an
organisation still intact, watching our
every move for error to charge us even
harder at the next gubernatorial elpe
tion. "Ay. there's the rub" Men of
Dr. Dowllng's ability and fitneass are
hard to And in any state. IPt's keep
him, and the like of him, If we want
to keep the party.
SAFETY FIRS
SWAT THE FLY
A leaflet recently lasued by the
extenslon division of the Oklahboma
A. A M. C~llele on "iwat the lly"
contalns some hlnts that are very
valuable and timely. The information
concernlng the daners of the housel*y
Is liven in the form of a catechism.
from which the following Is taken:
Q. When is the houtfly bern ?
Ana. In filth; chblefly In horse manure
and outhouses.
Q. is the fly dangerous?
Ana. Yes, he spreads d.isease
Q. How deas he carry diasa?
An. Iy carryingll ltbf lllittle germs
on his legs and wings and by "ly
sek,k'a after he has been feeding on
Infecrtios material
Q. What dtisease may the fly carry?
Ans lie may carry Typhoid Fever.
Tlubereakuols. ('hodera. Dysentery and
"Hummer ('omplaint"a"
0. Where is the greatest number of
ecaes of Typhoid Fever and "Summer
Cmplatat" ?
An. Whert e there, are the most flis
Q. Whern are the meet Aleat
Asia. Where there is the mostl fillth
0. is the presenae of Ales an indica
ties of naeery fith?
Ans. It most certainly is, and that Is i
disgraceful.
Q. Why should we ewat the fly ?
Ans. hecause he is the cause of s
much alrkanec and death.
Q. Hew may we sueeoef1lly fght
Ans. By destroyitng or renmoving the
manure pite and other brmeeding places;
by aikllg the privy vault flypref: by
keLeplg the yard elesa; by screening
the Beens; by the ue of lytraps, swat.
ters, sticky flpaper, etc. Seeming in
se powde Is a loead room will kill
a the I1w a the roe.
ADVOATES MEASURE
FOR PARY PROTECTION
I. K Thomai echnirnman of the, Ikrn.
(Wratitc State (',entral h('oitlnltlle., h'
IlIeven some, leginlaition lookini to the,
prltectlion of the i tllcnerrtie part}
tlgainst oppoailion partltnss+ il ntres'carv
at this wetsion. IIe has framte'd Ito
hills.. coerirltg Iwo phases of ahat he
bellc'iev to hei ne.cId. and a III dltse'u.
thmrn with (lov Pleasant
One provides for the' oultlnt of tnltl
her elected to parish. dltrhict ntll
stlate Ik)'tocrati e' cOalitteitllc ., ati afte'r
sluch elctionl, turn to the sutlpport of
some other party Mr Thomna. Gould
emlowi,er thelac re'ep'ctlhie c iommllit tehesl
to dtec'larc' the pe'at of Cllh t eu tmbtlleras
teCn'A and caII fotr the e'loctiton of
the!r slucc'asors ('asee's of this nature.
;aro~ in, theh recent camlpalig
The, olher, that ahe'lt a at ielahte. il
notinatencd In ithe Diemocratic liclmary
etlet tlhen turns to the support of citIne
,ether party in the general electrlon,
that his nominnatlion be du'larend ',hid
;llnd the committllt'ee havlilnl julrisdictiotn
ove'r his dlitrlclt to be e'tilº,,aere'd tee
imllttililte alntl' olther c'ltlnidIte as the'
re'eretl' "tiathll I e Of the' Ik'mtc'rat Ic
Imarty
ThIere are. nailty iinsltances at hand
a here tlneml',inlerc of parish plle julrie's
a ere,, notllnnated In the Ikleroce'tic
pritnary and in thel getneral elec'tiont
sttpp~orted the lithll Mooiee' c:tididatel
i'Ther, wre' a e I' fetw mentler of the'
t'llgInsatl u ii the' sanl c'lati, The'
we're' lttinate'd as tIhel'nlcrats, then
tIsuppMrte'ed Parker.
IMPROVEMENTS AT MACKIE FARM
. Ittle' ,ve.r Ia year ago Mr ('has. W
hackie of Ne"w Orleans and his sone
bhotght the Magnolia ptrntation, about
five miles frout town. Ifrn Mr W J
otrt. They did not start actives work
on this plac.' until January 12. 1114.
The place'e was very much run down by
tenants but the, MAeslers Mate'kl.' have(
tIet hrierse, dug ti ll ht the stumpsa in
'iehll., eel'ed Iciek rtmdW. nmade n(ew
mroas ,ii place, put up, new ftc'llt'es
ibothit heog wire' and hurtd wiretl. built
t.s nsea dwe.llletl hiluwl,,, a large' ha:r'r
ind Imnplant' tit house comhlinel. A.l
-we"llings and out-housesa are, nc'atlh
rainted. They br'ak all land with a
•.'solln(e engine, all tools atid imnt
nents thcy luse are, of the very' ber'+
I does' one' good to taec the' a erk dec,.
lith lltenm, the) Itºlc aet ~um c'h i '"
cere'e with rngine isn art dayt'
A viltor remarked ;he' o.thr cit'
'hat "If he wetre droppe'd from tlth
.ike' down on this placine he aould
hardly btlleve ;-o much improveme'nt
ctuld he mad., In so short a while "
Mr. John A. Ard of West 'c'llciain
Is with them to mann/ge the crops Ie1,
Is well know nae a eiecetful farm-r.
having nfed on l.ayon llantation for
Four years and tlade fine crop. P par
I'uelarly hay and corn. Irlish and aweret
lpotatoes, and some cotton utnder oll
weevll conditions
The old negro quarters ar, to be'
torn down and rebuilt lsehwhere on
the IplCer ('abins will he whltewaashed
and made ore comfortalrble In a
ye'ar or tao, if nothlnlg prevents, this
lwill be, one of the most uptodate
farms of the parIsh.
(The' foreloin contribution from a
friend is mich appreciated, and we'
ehall heI llad to publish other aIrtilel'
telling of farm Improvemente. where'
rv'er made In the Yiellietanae it lgiec
rreddl to tth 're'dit Is dcc. mlnjartee
Informetilo. t, nd is inspirlina to others
It will tb remnte.mthed that we' called
for itch contreributllha recentl,. and it
I Igratifyluig to have this repsleeettc at
olnet' Ilttcely and intrtrPst la intt
becty eclind In scelnr'thlng for n(,e't 'aeek
Icloear* eldlitorp I
The sixty)' foulrth annual eectcnccc
Rte'nt of Kllihltan 'otlllleate Inth!tulte
a il tec'giu at it a cii. Hnuseie. Ms, ?1
ie' I' I) M'ne.y cf Ne w Qri'nts w ,II
pre'ach the. hac'eratlnureatel r' rntun :ct
i! a. m, and the V W I' A' A'r|'tl'.'
at 11 p m. l're.f JSmne Rluth cf Tuluime
l'nIlverslty will dtellve'r the' aldrrcn ,c,
the gradlltatllth c'laue TIeseiaPv e'veniolllrtc
May 2 MIoedeav afte'·rtcetIn the' nlhnttllre
rer*ptlien amnd M(onday e've'tigl tlhe
annuattl Ccutic''rt
Whlen you read a book that you thlllk
Il unUtallty good. telI some' oet1e !ou
know Ilooklover are allways graterifl
for news cuf good beakc That rart
nilfient landlcr' Irn'rnch lnoic'l "J'anl
('hrslrtophe." the gtreatc stincel "I.'ls
Mtserable'." beeame known by this
arsNmoulth ndvertlIlng beIfere I Ib e
gaI to reelve notIces in the new.
psp u ad ma lasines.
