T
Patriotic roten throughout the nation, and eperia!lr thov in the jjrrat of
Ohio, will he interested in knowing that political Rome ht decreed the defeat of
President Wilton : and that papist plana for the campaign, including the capture of fed
eral patronage in Ohio, are perfected with the selection of Rome'a choice for United
State senator. Next week'a Menace will expoc the unusually base and underhanded
campaign begun by napUt politician in Ohio which includes the flooding of that state
with papist political literature sent out, in at least one instance, postage free in a gov
ernment envelope and under the franking privilege of a congressman. This relation
of the postal lawa it no more heinous than the misinformation, distributed in Ohio bv
;sasss
SHSEES
3S
OHIO AND
NATIONAL
POLITICS
Thl U Numbtr 265
NACE
its use, is treasonable. Rome scheme systematically to regain lost ground, and to put papist in power wherever
possible. Be ready for next week's Menace, and see that it is read by every patriotic voter especially in Ohio.
WE ORIGIN OF THE 1
DOCTRIME
1HEMS
663
OMROE
" ' '
'.- . ' x i
. V: "ST
v ' V
r i . (7 i
How Czar, Emperor, Kings and Pope Plotted to Destroy Democ
racyUnited States Senate Hears the Secret Treaty of
Verona and Learns How tho Allied Despots Praised the
Pope for Powerfully Aiding Them in Their Conspiracy
to Destroy Representative Government and
the Freedom of the Press
SENATOR R. L OWEN SHOWS THAT WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE IS
A PART OF THE GREAT DEMOCRATIC PROGRAM WHICH
THE HOLY ALLIANCE SOUGHT TO UTTERLY DESTROY
Carranza, Man and Statesman
How the Pope and Jesuits Seconded the Czar, Emperor and
Kings on Their War on Popular Sovereignty and Freedom of
Press How the Scenes Have Shifted from Europe to Our
Republic in This Mighty World Conflict Between
Monarchism and Democracy
Senator Robert L. Owen
Senator Robert L. Owen, who introduced the famous Secret Treaty of
Verona, in hi remark in the l'nitel States annate on woman ' soft rse, in a
Virginian by birth and education. He movel, however, to 1h Indian Territory,
many years ago, and since the admission of Oklahoma to the sisterhood of
states ha'a been one of the most commending figure of that eommonweatth.
When the friend of fundumctital democracy insugmatcd their cnmirri
for "direct leplalion" and "t ripht of ri-all " to cheek the alarming
progress of rlaas-rule and other subversive Old World despotic Ideas hut were
already undermining our free democracy, Senator Owen locme one of the most
powerful edve-ate of thee important provisions for preserving ix.pulnr sov
ereignty in ita Integrity.
In 1007 ha wss elected to the I'nited Ratea senate, sim-e then he has
1een the moat Influential upholder of direct legislation in the nation' cupitsl.
Some of hia frlrnil among fundamentnl ilrmorrata bare not agreed with the
senator in the advocacy of eertain departmental and burrauiTHtic measure
whirh Ihey be limed inimical to fundamental democracy ami opolur riyhta,
but km ao far a wa know have ever questioned hia sincerity or purity of
motive.
It is. Indeed, inplrinf to find a I'liiled State senator of such marked
ahility, courage and loyalty to popular government, rklnbitin;: the vision of
broad statesmanship that aee and dare to relate the pat with the present
in the overshadowing world-aide enufliet between privilege, clas rule and
despotism on the on hand and frae democracy and ita vrtal safeguards on the
other.
On April 2.1th, something hap
pened in the United States Senate.
Something of rcid iuterest and
significance to men and women who
think.
Woman suffrage was under con
sideration and everything was going
a usual in the staid and proper
Upper House, when suddenly, a bv
magic, the subject was lifted from
Hie even tenor of academic discus
sion and related in a vital and def
inite way to the mighty world con
fliet between democracy and all thoxe
allied forcea of privilege and des
potism that Lave waged unceasing
war on popular sovereignty aince
the Declaration of Independence
truck terror to throne, bureauc
racies and hierarchies.
Senator Shafroth was pleading
tne cause ox woman, when benatr
Kobert L. Owen rose to his feet and
did the unusual thing; startling
tnose wno do not want to thiiiU
broadly and fundamentally, no lea
than the servants of Old World
ideals and subversive influences by
showing how thit tffort for the en
krgrment of the frontiers of de
mocracy and meeting the growing
aspirations of advancing civilita
tion vat a port of the great move
ment, which less than one hundred
years ago the master representatives
of the divine right of kings, or
aut'icTatic despotism, conspired se
cretly bnt in a daring and danger
ous way to destroy root and branch.
Fie summoned the past to appear
before the most august legislative
body of modern democracy, and
showed how daring the last century
the allied force of despotism of the
Old World plotted to stamp out rep-
resenuuve government,- and free
dom of press, not only in their own
lands, but in other countries of
Europe and over aea. . .
This he did by throwing on the
screen, as it were, one of the most
iniquitous secret treaties known to
the history of Christian civilization,
and one which revealed the arch
conspirators, cur, emperor and
. kings, as recognizing the pope of
Borne to be their most powerful
not merely free democracy but rep
ruentatir government and free
dim of the prr$4.
Despotism Under Search Light
We now wish to give our readers
that pert of the Congressional Ik-cord
for April 23th, (pages 7730
77:11) whkh includes Senator
Oaen's remarks and his verbatim
quotations of the notorious Secret
Treaty.
Senator Shafroth had yielded the
floor to the senator from Oklahoma,
whereupon, Mr. Owen said:
I wish to take only a moment. The
argument made by the senator from Col
orado (Mr. Shafroth) on woman's suf
frage look to the soreretgnty of the peo
ple, for when he apeak of the people he
apeak of all the people, women as well
a men. I regard thia recognition of wo
man a moat important to the welfare of
the American people. Woman's suffrage
is a final culmination of the triumph of
the people in aelf government, and for
that re aeon I take a deep interest in it
I wieh to put in the record fe secret
treojf of Verona of November U2, 18C2,
howing what thia ancient conflict is be
tween the mle of the few and the rule
of the many. I wish to call the atten
tion of Uie senate to this treaty because
it if ia tArrol of thu trrcty rates m
the batin of fa Monro d.tetrin It
throws a powerful white light opon the
conflict between monarchal government
and fioternment 6y fac people. The HoIt
Alliance nmler tha influence of Mntter
nieh, the premier of Austria, in 1S22, is
sued this remarkahle nvnt itomnntt.
(American Diplomatic Code, 1778-1884.
tui. i; r.uion, p. iiv.)
Secret Treaty of Verona
TIm aara!iM4. - "
with tkw sin sf aawltmtlnt 0lr
m- m htornti, m laitmstvli niiiikuJ ltd
ia rar at hMi ml iJh sUtilr f ta
SrtacMI mu4 iKe rl r ri tng pmwm tu
Iiim 1HMH lHSk l.. 1HK folk
MH UlIU HR MAS AIS.FAHV IMiNk.
l"tiK lHtM AMI MX KIT HIS OS.
STANV MirKRATION IV THUH VlkWS
OP ttlBwIlTINb THIw NATIOb.
ARTH I.B 4. Ttw ttaatlaa f Sssla sr4
PnSl aatl anaspslr sU III rircam
UserM la ohlrll ISm Iml? k rHUr
lriM-. 1 K liigli rnirtief parti, la
raifldinf is t'rsiM tkt car mi elllns
4 ! tltrM tm mm lir la tli
stnwr h r k ma. i K imrt nwMilt t kM
with tkrir Ssl mn4 lk twopl
frsst kr MMM ( s aakaldf in asrl ml
lit two Mrur f 1. . af trssr r
iw frra tit mir of ill Issalsr ml lata
Irvatr lb r4 ml lb r.
AI1TI I t: I. In orOr rlatlh la Ik
ptnlntails Ik r4r Iklns klrh tlatrl
( tk malm mmi ml t an. sn4 Is inaar
tk ntlr tctmi f Ik article sf tk
prnrat lral. tkr kitk raeirsrtlst part Ira
iKt la aa-k alkar tk rarlsrarsi saaarasr
lhal sa lens sa Ikalr la)a sr sal lalhtlas.
rairrtlna all atkr taa ml atllli a.kr
ai.aaara la k takra. tkar HI Jra tkara
rls a ilk Ik kartat aail U la all
tk asikariiaM iiins la talr aats ana
ta ail tklr anta tn far'a raaatrtra. attk
'k lw ta atablia mnarrtiana Icndias
Ia-sr4 Ik tmaplas'l ( Ik afcjarta
Siapna4 fc tkta lrrai.
AHTICI r. S. Thia Irest akall k rn4
(I. erraarxa r. itkr at a ntm raasr
r at Ik raart ml an af tk ranlra.l-ni
Crtw. aa aaua sa Ik ar auk hpala s'.iall
trrmlnatast.
ARTII I.K 7. Tk ram tral akall kr
ratitira and Ik ialiticalMaa aarkan) at
Parla within Ik apar af all Kiantha.
Mad SI Varans tk ltd af Natrarkar. IKJJ.
Far Aaatrtst Mattrrelrh.
t ar t rant l ( kataaakriand.
tar Praaalsl Brrnatrt.
tar Knaalai Naalrar)r.
I n-k to have printed in the CmKre
ionnl Hrcord this secret tivaty, lie. au
I think it ot'uht to be called now to the
attention of the j.ple of the I'nited
State, end of the world. This evidi-nce
of the conflict between the rule of the
few versus popular jjovemntent should
be emphasized on the mind of the peo
pie of the I'nited States, that the conflict
now waging throughout the world niny be
nmre rl. arly understood, for after all is
suid the yrint s-ndi.Dir war spring from
tlio wrakutss and frailty of iiernnu-nt
liy the Irs, where hutuim ertnr is far
nre pr"l'Hlf than the rrmr of the mauv
where Sk,vrcivc war is only -rmitted
uMin the atitlioriunK Vi'te of th'tn whose
lio are js ardirod m the trrm'hea of
modern war.
Mu. Mum. nil: sir. I'rei letil, I
shmdd like to have the pt-iiutor state
whether m that treaty there wa not a
coal lion formed Is'twivn the powerful
ritlintriea of Kurnjie to re e-1al lili the
rvereie,tity nf Spain in the ieutlii of
South and 4'entrul Aiimh. tif
Mh. tli:: I was .it "ii'if to com
ment tiHin t lint, and 1 km oin to lk
but a few moiiii'iua to ! lm nu-e I
luilire the prcsMtre of other nuiiler
Tlitx llidr Alliance, having put a Itoiir
bxiii pritK-e tiMin the throne of France l v
foire, then uwd Krnnee to suppress the
constitution of Spain ii.iitii'diately after
tvards, ntiil by this et. tn-aty gme In t
a subsidy of I'O.ni Mitun fiuns suiiuiilly
to i tinl'le her to wage nor snh the pro
ll of .V;hiim duo frt thtir txerciai
nf II IV (tlliKITC or" 1lC Tilllit Of cf-lol-
irnimhl. The Holy APisnre imttu'dintc
ly 'lid the siitne thing ' Iti.ly, by eeii.l
ing Austrian tioojis t Italy, where the
pe.ple tlicre at'i'tiiited t'l ercrrise a like
nn'sxire of lilveril e :istilntionnl wlf
gnrertitnent ; and it as tvt until the
ptinliiig press, which tl.e Holy Allnnce
n stoutly opposed, tat M the eople f
Knrope the value of plsrty that flnslly
one roiitnry after ither eeired a
printer and presler riiMt of self fm-ern-nicnt,
until now it mtv le fairlv sil
thnt nearly all the n.Vions of Kurope
hare a very large measure of self-government.
However. T wisher! to call the atten
tion of the sennte and the country to this
Important history in the growth of con
stitutional sipular self government. The
Duly Alhsure made its powers (elt by
the whiih-sale drastic suppression of the
pica in Kuri'ts', bv tin net sol censorship,
by kill. ur free hs-. h ami all ideas of!
sipular rights, and by the complete sup
ptesMon i ' poptilsr government. The
Holy Alliatire hsving destroyed popular!
governmrut in Spmn and in Italy, had
well In id plans u!-o to dottoy sipular
govertinient in the Anieri.sn eolonitw
which had rei oiled from Spain and Tor
ttigal in tVntrsI and South America tin
drr the inlliienee of the sun-esef ul m
ample of the I iute.1 States. It wsa lie
cause of this conspiracy against the
Aincrrrun tiptdilics by the European
iiioimr. hies 1 lint the grest Ktiglih states
' i :a ti . atiii'iiL. 'nlle. the tiMfiitiuii of our
gioetiit.ietit to it, and our ststmcn then,
im l'i'liti- ThontKs JerTi'tson, took an ac
tive pnit to bring nbout the dis'larution
by 1 'resi.lent Monroe in his neit annual
me-atike to the congress of the I'nited
strtes that the I'nited States would re
gntd it as an act of hostility (o tho gov
ernment r.f the I'nite.l Stati-s and an un
friendly B'-t if this runlilion or if any
lower of Kuroj ever undertook tfl estab
lish tipnti the Americsn enntlnent anr
ci'nttoi of any American republic or to
aiiiiro nny tetritori.il rights.
Thi is the so-called Monroe doctrine.
The threat under the secret trestv of
Verona to suppress popular government 1
in the Amerii an republic is lh basis of i
the Monroe d'M-trine. This secret treaty '
sets forth i lenrly the conflict between I
motisrehisl covernment and popular gov
ernment nnd the government of the few 1
a agninst the government of tho mtny.
The farts hroticht out in this;
Set ret Trestv are k vital and have I
such intimate hearing on the world
I , 1 v
r
. MVW1' .V.
t
i'f$K
General Venustiano Carranza
(Continiied on Tags 2, Column 2)
Hats A
rvaaacttra
ABTIClK t.
Ilttoaa aa tk. a. -J
artar harta ascaaaaaa taetr
aav mtr4 as fa.
TV kick aafrtractlas aawar
ai
pa MM v
tk eiTSB rarkl. aa
ssaat aiiaaar ta i
aa aai aa aaa m taa avaaa
maiana
slat Is Kara a. aa4 ta aepva
alatir aaiaaiaa 1 aaaalla aa
Ilk tk ssaaaarralal prriia as tk
la anpli aritk
ataafiy. sa tka
an tkatr aVart
mS
what- raaatry It saas
t tt W4n tm.
kna is a
sarin a Am . .
trty t Jfc sraaa I tk sn aawarfal
2?i-?r"J " aapaarur mi
rWka af aattoaa aa tka Otrtaiaat af
ikaa af praacaa. tka kajk caatraetwc partias
araailaa rrprsall ta aaap. aH praaar
aaaaaar TO SUFTKE.". IT. NOT OnLt
I x THi'ts nwrv ITirn ar" . i da w.
Tr? rst or ccwors.
Abtii, lb a- ajaarstasaa) tkat tka avtact-
jnu Sal aaaat aaaar,n.
eiraa rkara ttara aai aa Ikaar iri.ni, tk
kitk aatiaiaa aartsaa aacisra n k
The Menace Reorganized and Reinforced
ITH thia issue, The Menace and all ppurtenancei thereto belonging pasi into the
hands of the Free Press Defense League and, henceforth, instead of being privately
owned and privately operated, will be the property of the people who made it what it
is and the profits from its operation, in the future, will go to the propagation of the
principles enunciated by the paper and the League from' their incipiency.
Through the generosity and patriotism of the United States Publishing Co., former
owners of The Menace, the transfer was made without the payment in advance of a single dollar
of the League's money, and we feel that every patriot in the land will join the officers of the Free
Press Defense League in congratulating the former owners for their five years of faithful work in
building up the greatest paper the world has ever known, for their patriotic teal in the defense of
American liberty and our free institutions, and for their unselfish devotion to the greatest cause to
which any American citizen could devote his time and talents in this day and generation.
For several months we have all thought that the forces of The Menace and the League should
be permanently and securely united, and we can asiture our readers that it is with a great deal of
pleasure that we are able to make the announcement that the deal has been happily a&d agreeably
consummated and that the whole transaction is now a matter of legal record.
By the union of forces thus brought about the papor is materially strengthened in every par
ticular. The legal talent of the Free Press Defense League, headed by Hon. J. L Sheppard, than
whom there is not a more able attorney or profound patriot in the land, becomes mora closely
identified with the work of the paper and will be at all times ready to render it every possible
assistance. More than that, the union of forces brings to the editorial staff of the paper Mr. B. 0.
Flower, president of the Free Press Defense League, a writer and literary man of nation-wide fame
and a man who will give the paper a dignity and tone which will give it an immediate welcome
into thousands of homes where it has hitherto been a stranger.
The founders and former publishers of The Menace are anxious that it be perpetuated to their
memory, believing it to be the greatest living champion of humanity and Christianity in America,
as well as the most powerful instrument the people could possess in the work of liberating them
selves from the grasp of papal power. On the other hand the Free Press Defense League is doing
a work just as important, just as powerful and j tut as noble and self -sacrificing as that being done
by The Menace, and under ita direction there ii.no limit to the good that may be done by thia
great united agency when the wheels are once ia motion and the entire Menace and League
family, over a million strong, sets its face to the battle and fights as a single nun.
Free Speech, Free Press and the perpetual and everlasting right to life, liberty and the pur
suit of happiness is the issue ! The man who deaios it is a tyrant I The man who does not demand
it is a coward! The man who is indifferent to it ia a slave! The man who does not desire it ia
dead or might as well be ! '
With the issue thus explained, with a tried, trje, seasoned and unselfish force of warriors for
the common good thus united, let us one and aU join hearts and hands in a covenant sealed with
the stamp of sincerity, that we will stand true to the trust reposed in us by the American people
and, tn the language of Garrison, that "We will rot equivocate we win not excuse we will not
retreat a tingle inch and we will be heard!" Warvin Brown, Managing Editor.
The following a.etch of President Carrania has been prepared ipresaly
for Tm MkSAi'K by Ju.lk'e Uillsrt O. Nation, vice-president of the Free Pre
IVfense League, and director of the Washington bureau ef the League. Judge
Nations' ltet nrk "Constitution or I'ope," is, e think, the mnt able and
tir..nwrrnble diwcusMun of the subject of Kotnan Catholic allegiance that has
been written, lie is also the author of tho nl.le and opular little work, "The
Wight of Mcsico. " tsiiM'O the t tallii.hini nt of the I'ree Press IVC riiie League
lliueau, in VYliiiie,t' n. Judge Nations has tendered invaluable service to the
cause of fn-edom, ronMittitional j-oiernnent and popular rijjhta by acquainting
the patriotic millions with the very pernicious and subversive K-iikLilive aud
other attempts of political Koiuauism 14 futthcr entrench itself in government
and to aeaken ami undrrtintie our lunlamental democracy by li-lalion such
a is attempted in the liallnan, the Fitzgerald and Slej;e bills. Few men in
public life at home nr abroad have len niore orsistonMy and ahameftUly
iniprcpresented, alandered an I maligned than President Cananza anu the brief
outliue sketch of hie life as itivi'u Ulow will prove interesting and valuable
to the patriotic millions of America.
Grnprnl Venustiano Carranza.
I'ri'sidont of the Kepuhliv if Mex
ico, Wo born in the town of
Cuatro Cfrnepis, state of Coliuila,
in the year 1809. The Oarranzus
are one of the old Hnrr jinnnlnent
families of Northern Moxieo, boHht
in(j of pure Spanish ilescent. For
several generation, they have been
substantia! citizens and land om
er. The private estate of President
Carranza in eMimr.ted at half a
million dollars in talue in Ameri
can money. The chief products of
his extensive farms are cattle, wheat
and rubber.
Under the dictatorship of Por
firio Diaz, Mr. Carranza was fent
from his native state to the City of
Mexico tn a member of the nation
al Senate, which position he held
about twelve years. During his
career in the Senate he was one of
the very few men in public life who
dared to resist the segregations of
the Diax tyranny, lie became' a
candidate for governor of his own
state in opposition to the Diaz
Eeyes candidate. -
nis candidacy enlisted the active
support of Francisco I. Madcro,
who afterward? declared that the
example and courage of Carranza
inspired him to resin the Diaz po
litical machine and to participate
in the final overthrow of the dic
tator. Tho revolution which turminated
in the overthrow of Diaz had the
active support and co-operation of
Carrnr.a. W hen the revolution had
succeeded in placing Madero, a
friend to all the people and a man
of highest integrity, in the presi
dency of the republic, Carranza,
with a deep sense of righteous sat
isfaction, directed his attention
once more to the management of his
plantations.
On learning of the murder of
President Mad and Vice-President
Suarez, and the usurpation of
the chief magistracy bv Iluerta,
Senator Carranza was the first to
defy the treacherous usurper and
raise the standard of revolt.
Contact with the American peo
in the inhabitants of Northern
Mexico a consciousness of their
rights ami responsibilities which
make them peculiarly responsive
to the leadership of an honest com
moner like Carran. The spread
through the northern states of the
insurrection against Iluerta and the
final downfall of that lecherous ty
rant is familiar to the American
lcople. As first chief of the revo
lutionary force (tcneral Carranza
became the chief executive of Mex
ico and van duly recognized a
such bv the government of the
United .States.
Carranza is a liberal scholar, n
typical plains-man, stern and sys
tematic ia.bis habits, a total ab
stainer from liquor and tobacco
and a man of uncompromising hon
esty. In personal appearances he
is alvove the averape Mexican in
stature, rugged and wall poised. He
has a high forehead, strong features
and wears a full beard.
As president of the republic it
has been his one purpose to admin
ister the affairs of Mexico in a bnsi-nes-like
manner, and to enforce
the laws impartially and to do
justice- to all the people regardless
of rank or station. This policy has
brought his administration under
the relentless condemnation of the
Roman Catholic hierarchy that has
so long plundered Mexico and
trampled on the rights of the peo
ple. The hierarchy, which is known
in Mexican politics as the clerical
party, enlisted the active co-operation
of capitalists whom Diaz had
drawn into Mexico by his ruinous
concessions granted for that par
pose. It has been the deliberate
purpose of this combination to
crufh the Carranza government with
financial embarrassment and to
poison the minds of the American
people against it by the deliberate
and wholesale invention and publi
cation throughout the United States
of persistent and groundless false
hoods as to the policy of the Car
ranza administration and conditions
in the Republic of Mexico.
Carranza is deeply impressed with
aaMMW'aawk amstLIJl '''
..
