THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 57.'
BARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
YSER CANAL
CONTESTED
German Attempt to Cross
.Was Frustrated by
the French
CHAMPAGNE ATTACK
ALSO WAS PUT DOWN
German Aeroplanes Bom
barded Dunkirk and a
. Neighboring Town
Paris, May 20. German troops took
the offensive along the Yser canal, be
tween Steenstraete and Het-Sas, last
night, the war office announced to-day
Their attempt to cross the canal failed.
The Germans also attacked in Cham
pagne and used asphyxiating gas; but
the assault was repulsed.
Dunkirk was bombarded by German
'aeroplanes. One woman was killed, and
27 persons were wounded. The town of
Bergues, near Dunkirk, was also bom
barded by German aeroplanes; and five
persons were Jtilled and eleven were
injured.
In retaliation for these attacks, French
and Belgian aeroplanes dropped bombs
on German camps. On the Verdun front,
there were no important developments.
French positions at Avocourt wood and
Dead Man's hill were bombarded vio
lently. GERMANS FORCED
TO GIVE GROUND
Were Defeated in German East Africa,
According to Belgian Official
Statement.
Paris, May 20. The forced retreat of
German forces in German East Africa
was announced in an official report is-Buedto-day
by the Belgian war depart
ment at Havre. The report also claims
flhe capture of a highly organized Ger
man defensive position and one 77-niilii-metre
gun.
SAYORPETGOT
SUICIDE NOTE
Led to Fatal Meeting, Defense Holds
Says He Tried to Save the
Girl.
Waukegan, III.," May 20.-rWilliam Or-
pet, charged with the murder of Mitrian
Lambert, will be put on the witness stand
to testify that the high school girl wrote
hira a letter threatening suicide, it was
announced yesterday by James H. Wil
kerson, senior counsel for the accused
University of Wisconsin student.
On this letter hinges the whole theory
of the defense the contention that the
18-year-old girl swallowed the cyanide
of potassium in Helms woods last Feb
ruary when Orpet informed her that he
no longer loved her and that he was en
gaged to marry Miss Celeste Youker. Or
pet s own testimony is considered of vital
mportance in establishing tlu theory of
defense. - ' .
When Orpet takes the stand he will
testify that Marian Lambert wrote him
a letter a few days before the fatal tryst
under the three oaks, threatening to kill
NO EXECUTION
OF LYNCH YET
WAS PROMINENT POLITICIAN.
ORDER COPIES
WERE STOLEN
George B. Cox, Also Theatrical Magnate,
Died To-day.
Cincinnati, May 20. George B. Cox, a
widoiy known politician and theatrical
magnate, died to-day.
Ueorgo Barnsdale Cox was one of the
most widely known professional noliti
British Government Notifies ?kn,8 in l;llk- basebaii magnate, a Alleged to Have Been Taken
rank'ni a n.i ruivr dwuneif ...... a . i , -
largest theatrical syndicates in the coun
try. Born in Cincinnati, April 20, 1883,
he began bis career as a newsboy, and
later became a saloon-keeper at "Dead
Man's Corner." as. the locality at Car
lisle and Central avenues, Cincinnati, was
known, because of the numeroiia murders TiFFlP MYITF'TJ'Y"
in the. neighborhood. Ci,.innai uas wirU '-'--' HJ1WU
open' in those days and unbridled saloons
and gambling flourished. Cox, however,
kept his place orderly and established a
reputation for physical courage that he
maintained throughout his career.
Me immediately became a leader in
local politics and soon spread his in
fluence until he virtually controlled the
Republican machine in .Hamilton county,
obtained a powerful hold on state poll
tics and wielded an influence in national
campaigns.
Early in his political career Cox was
elected to the city council. I hat, how
BEAUTIFYING THE ROADS.
stJ. S." Embassy in
London
SENTENCE WILL BE
MADE PUBLIC TO-DAY
Lynch, an American Citizen,
Tried for Complicity
in Irish Revolt
from J. P. Morgan &,
Co. Office
IN NEW YORK CITY
District Attorney 4 Is Con
ducting Investigation
London, May 20. The American mi- .,.,... ... '.. ., ..... New York. May 20. District Attorney
. , . r .1. ... .. . ClVUl'CIl LU I'JIt? V IV UUUIlUll. 1 Jlk. HUM- I ' "
nerseii unless ne returned to ner anu bassy was officially informed to-day that .,. ..... .,, , " . t ' l.-u .;,.,,.. ;.! n.Jav ih invtimf ion
give up her rival. He will declare that the sentence of Jeremiah C Lynch, a nat- LB ' B,H. ' fnilIlH th. innr pir. t. : ' ., ,.;.;
it was in answer to this threat that he uralized American convicted of complici- .7 " .7 V. . " C . . i.:" '
wrote his chooI girl sweetheart a hur- ty in the Sinn Fein revolt, will be an- IT " .'7 L'" ' "'''""'S qrdcrs from the office of the J. P. Morgan
ried note saying: . nounocd by the military authorities , paHnp nf A, T,1,n,1,liian :,',, I & Co., the' tapping of telephone wires by
Dent do anything desperate until. I sometime to-day. . ilton he' Keei ' llg chief the police, and the use of an eavesdrop-
rrll' a f . -u . a. . ... . . vsmngn. May 20. Ambassa- lieute,mntg August Hermann, now chair- ping device by private detectives, in an
J he defense will contpnrt that this is Mnr Parra fli Innilnn nUaA f:h stat flp. . -9 ' .. t o r
- - - - - - .- v.w - - " V if.n.i.. u..v. w w I n II n nli. .1 . I n n I .,, .. V,. II ... . a
. I : 4L. ...JJ I-!- i I t ll ; W iLi 1L J. t ' .'.UUI.a. ,iT-LKtll LTJIll IU.-
"' -uuuBu ir.p lu parunen msi n.gnt ina, u.e Bcnic.ce ui Uion and nresident of the Cincinnati base-
-BKe torest and that Urpet tried to pre- Jeremiah U. LymUi, the naturaHsed Amer- u,, c,llb.nd Rud Hynil.ka wht.. later be--ent
his discarded love from harming her- ican convicted of complicity in the Dub- .i..,,,. ..aio.j .ui, in
effort to trace the grapevine method by
which information was pilfered.
Senator Thompson, chairman of the
. k rri..- ,L. .,. 7 ? I.. . . . . . , . . came cioseiy associated witn jir. uox in
"'"inry, wey wui contena, a s- .in uprising, naa not oeen connrmea, o u..,;. VPnt;lirp.. , th- d5vUon of legislative committee which lias been in-
poses of the damaging evidence held by that in accordance with Instructios from
the Rtkte tending to show that Orpet Secretary Lansing, the British goverment
took elaborate precautions to prove an had been asked to suspend the infliction
alibi for himself before meeting th"e girl. I of any punishment pending an investiga
tion. .
ARTY PLANKS
SLOW MOBILIZATION
authority between these two, Cox as- vesticatinc the affair, declared that the
! J IT -i - A.X. j . y-i- I 0 "
igneu fiermanu m, mm cu.v 01 uran- a(,tiviticg of lhe detective ag(,n(.y violated
outride of Cincinnati. For years the word the United States constitution and some
of these two men in their separate fields (of the agency operators fled the city to
waa flnal. I avoid testifying before the committee.
vnen kjox announced ins retirement
Republicans Puzzled How to Deal with
Preparedness and Americanism
to Suit AIL
Washington, May 20. What are the!
from politics in 1909, Hermann and Hy
nicka continued the organization which
waa considered Intact until it was beaten
m the mayoralty race in Cincinnati a
HARD TO SAW fiy National Guard Troops on the Mx
ican Border.
Washington, D. C, May 20. Gen. Fun
ston'a realignment of the border patrol little more than three years liter.
is being delayed, war department officials Cox as a young man was an enthusi
said yesterday, by slow mobilization of lastic baseball fan. He organized and was
the Amonii and New Mexico national a member of the "Useeolas, during the
Guard and by the disappointing Bhowing strenuous days of baseball when fights
Republicans going to say at Chicago in' numbers and equipment of some of I were frequent The motto of the club
about preparedness and kindred issues? "le guard companies that have reported waa "Win, tie or tight, and Ux is said
11 I e I 1 . A I I ll a LI.
ior service. v ; laiwaya to nave oeeu vniero me irouuic
Although it has been 10 days since was we thickest,
President Wilson called out-the Texas, I Later he was associated with August
ITALIANS EVACUATE.
Withdrew from Portion of Their Lines
in the Trent Region.
London, May 20. Under tJie heavy
pounding of the Austrian artillery, Ital
ian forces have been compelled to with
draw from portions of their lines in the
region of Trent, which had been boin
barded for three days. An oflicial com
munication from Rome admits the evac
nation of the Zegnatoria position, in the
Igarina valley south of Trent, and alao
the line between the Terragtiola valley
and the upper Astico from Monte 31ag
cio to Sagliodaspio.
The Italians, however, have occupied
further Austrian positions in the Adam
ello zone, capturing prisoners, material
end provisions..
his question is worrying the party lead
era.
It may be easy enough to shape most! Arizona and New Mexico guardsmen fori Hermann in the ownership of the Cin
f the planks in the Republican nlatform patrol duty along the border their mo- eimiati Nationals,
. . . 1 . h !! -ir . , I i r !-... t 1
a iashion that will suit the different I ouization ana assignment is iar irumiuist ciuo paueti on 101, nowever, ua
faction. It is not inconceivable that I complete. The Texas companies respond- when he became tired of supporting a
Republicans and Bull Moose will be able ed promptly, but m the other two states "tail-encier" he sold Ins stock.
o agree both as to most features of the line n "let witn as quiet a re- air. .ox was president or uie worm
platform and as to the candidate. I sponse as officials expected. In addi-1 film corporation, one of the largest pic-
It is admittedly not easy, however, to tion, so many companies in all three Iture producing and distributing concerns;
write a preparedness plank, or a national I ttes have been found to be below their I chairman of the board of directors of the
The Inquiry resulted in a spirited contro
versy between Thompson and Mayor
Mitchel. The mayor asserted that a vital
national interest was involved, which
Thompson denied. The district attorney
declared that any publication of facte at
present would be most regrettable from
the standpoint of the administration of
federal justice.
The statement by the district attorney
was as follows:
I have made inquiry into the circum
stances concerning the investigation, now
going on into the listening on the wire of
Seymour & Seymour, Mr. Marshall said,
The ill-fortunes of am fin' tha he tlm f-o ice depart-
iiit-ut reierrcu a Having to uu wiui
the federal authoritiee is a case I know
about which has been of interest for some
time to the federal authorities and which
involves national issues."
Commissioner Woods wa called to the
stand in the open inquiry after witnesses
had testified that William J. Burns of
12 DECREES
OF DIVORCE
ington County Court
To-day
TWOPETrNS
WF vv DISMISSED
Women of Central Vermont Communities
Undertake Important Work.
A meeting of . "wayside wardens" was
held in the Aldrich hall yesterday after
noon to hear the reports of the surveys
which have been made by the various
committees representing the Woman's
Announced in Wash-
Good Luck, the Village Improvement and
the Home Study clubs of Williamstown,
the South Barre gnange and the Woman's
club of Barre.
This in an attempt by these organiza
tions to start a campaign for the im
provement of the road sides from Water
bury to Williamstown gulf, a movement
which is in line with the work being car
ried on in various localities through the
country. The most extensive In New
England is "The Circuit," which Massa
chusetts people are now at work upon.
J his Circuit starts from Boston, crosses
the state by way of Worcester, Spring
Held and Pittsficld and, returning through
North Adams; Greenfield, Kitehburg and
Cambridge, covers 320 miles of Massachu
setts highways and passes through 67
cities and towns, every mile of which has
been closely scrutinized by the promoters
of the scheme with a view to improving! A dozen divorces were granted and twa
the road borders by plantine trees where suits were dismissed In Washington coun-
dcsirable, making openings where fine ty court to-day. The entries made were
views may be obtained, covering unsight- as follows:
ly cuts or banks with vines or low -grow- j Amelia Webster from Fred H. Webster,
ing shrubs and in every way possible bill granted tor desertion. ' .
making the waysides a joy to. the travel- Nathan B. Brown from Fairy E. Brown,
er. bill granted for desertion.
While this attempt by the women of Mae Fifield from Luther L, Fifield, bill
central Vermont is much less ambitious granted for desertion.
in scope than the Massachusetts "Circuit" Ora Johnson from George R. Johnson,
it is no less worth while and its promot- bill granted for intolerable eeverity.
ers hope that from this modest beginning Mary c. Green from. Fred S. Green, bill
may radiate lines of beautiful roadsides granted for desertion.
throughout the whole commonwealth as Hortense A. Anderson from Oscar B
other communities take it up. When the Anderson, bill granted for intolerable se.
women have appealed to property owners verity.
to plant trees, cut underbrush or clean Angle Bottinelh from Paul Bottinejh,
In Lb' J" Cases, Suit WaS
Brought for Intoler- .
able Severity
ucicnse juanK, wnjen will suit tnose ne-ll'-rc vv ,. ... K. ..... .1:1 . ,,.r,. - .. dpwive pncy anrt hi on
Kl:...: ...l, 4..J il i nnur .nnt t.h trt mmrH.m.n nrnv ,1. M.nf f V,A 1ar. t .l .n,n1.rt. n. lW UmS QeteCtlVe agency BIIO niS Son,
fixed at a peace streneth of not less than ed will not be more than 3,000. and prob- terprises. and was intrestel in the Keith fT' lf. '?!? :5 ?J
200.000. as per the Senate army bill, ably a few hundred less. When the call vaudeville circuit. He waa president of L".,," 1 . TT tT 1"
and also will please those who believe as issued it wa depended on to add the Cincinnati Trust. company and held T"rt
the present army is stronir enough. Nor 3,fi00 men to the border patrol. stock in various realty companies which ?
ALLIES WANT A
"FINISH FIGHT"
French Minister Vivianl Answers Peace
Talk, Speaking for Them All
Are Determined to Force Ger
many to Reparation.
retrograd, May 20. 'The allies stand
solid for a fight to a finish. They intend
to brenk Germany's heavy sword. They
owe this to unborn generations."
This waa the answer to peace talk
from Berlin made yesterday by Rene
Viviani, former French prime minister
and now minister of justice injthe French
cabinet. Viviani has been making ex
tensive visits to England and Russia. At
Ahe Frenoh embassy he gave the second
interview he has granted since the war
began.
"I am not qualified to speak of Ger
many'a intentions," continued the French
cabinet official, "but our alliance is more
compart than at any time since the war
began, and is growing constantly strong
er.
"The allies continue to grow stronger
in both armament and mi. They are
eteadily forging Germany V chastisement.
Tliry wiH force her to make full repara
tion for what she has done. There will
be no Kepantte. peace. The allies war as
one. They have devised an economic en
tente. After peace the world will find
the allies equally unified.
Viviani exprecd the greatest pleas
u i at the results of his visit to England
and Russia.
is it easy to harmonise the exponents of
the federal volunteer system and those
who believe in reliance on the National
Guard.
Related to the samequestion is the is
sue known hs "Americanism." One body
at Lhicago will insist on r strenuous dec
laration as to preparedness and "Amer
icanism." One body, on the other hand,
will advise a moderate declaration.
It is believed here that the realign
ment of forces on the border will in
clude withdrawal to the . American side
of the expeditions under Col. Sibley and
Maj. Ltanghornc, which crossed in pursuit
of the Big Bend raiders. Their mission
is regarded as virtually accomplished, the
bandits in that region apparently having
been dispersed and the Americans cap
tured at Boquilssag rescued. A Carranza
City.
Just how the problem will be solved command moving from Sbltillo also is
is bepnd.jpresent prophecy. It is pre
dicted bv some that a rhetorician of ca
pacity will ultimately be called in who
will -write something which ran l ac
cepted by all brands of Republicans and
those who amalgamate with them under
the Republican banner.
Already there is among Republican
leaders in Congress a great deal of con
ferring with respect to what the party
shall eay at l.lucago on national defense,
expected to do much toward relieving the
Uig liend situation.
have constructed theatres in New York r "T " f":,. . "VT
"cio Kiiftajirii w.v i.lic nun vi .r. I. iLfijau
& Co., from whose offices had been pil
fered oflicial messages from the French
government relative to munitions sup
plies. It was alleged this information
was sold to munitions manufacturers to
enable them to make satisfactory bids.
The police commissioner did not dis
cuss the Seymour rtise. He admitted,
Independent Mexican Leader Encamped however, that the Burns detectives bad
.... I worsea in co-pernim wun me ponce in
w.i w j uuwwvia H that ia had trivrvn th nivM
HERNANDEZ
FORCE IS NEAR
SIBLEY'S COLUMN
GREEN MOUNTAIN CLUB
from Americans.
Marathon, Tex., May 20. Rosalia Her-
sary permission to "listen in" on the tele
phone. .
Mr. woods devoted most of his time to
h.m ft. l.i Mi- .f ti,. nandez, with more than 300 armed fol- detailing the methods used by the police
Held Its Annual Meeting at Brandon ,ower. is at do EncinjI. ,B wirM and lh- ceMitl for
Yesterday 1 1.. in .n..,h f h. iu.,i.. ai : a
Yesterday. laa, 165 milea south of the border and 40
Brandon, May 20. The sixth annual miles south of where the second Ameri
meeting of the state organization of the can expeditionary force under Col. .Sibley
Green Mountain club was held yesterday I camped Thursday. Hernandez, it is re
at the Brandon inn with a good attend-1 ported, does not subject himself or hie
on "Americanism," and those questions anc. Amendments to the constitution followers to the diet of either Carranza
made live by the European war srnd the
troubles on the border.
DELEGATES MAY GAG
SPELLBINDERS
abolishing the club council and placing or Villa,
its control in the hands of n executive
committee of 15 were passed. The club
decided to inaugurate a vigorous cam
paign to raise the $2,550 deemed neces
sary to place in repair and complete the
Green Mountain trail from Massachusetts
to the Canadion border. The following
DARTMOUTH'S CHANCES BEST.
Will Either Have to Compress Nominat
ing Speeches or Be Cut
Down.
Presents a Hotel to Courteous Manager.
In the May American MagHzine is a.
story hv Fred C. Kelly to prove that
rotirteyy in business pa vs. It ha to do
with George C Boldt, manager of the
Waldorf -Astoria in New York City, an.l
f'rmer manager of a Philadelphia bosUl
ry: "One night, when all the hotels in
Philadelphia were crowded and it was
almost impossible to obtain a room, a
man and his wife drove up to Boldt'a
hotel and aied, in a tone of despair, if
be could not give them a place to sleep.
"'Yes.' Boldt told them, you can take
my room that's all I have.'
"Tb next morning the guest toM
BHdt that a manager with his tense of
courtesy would 1 an assured tnuvki
im a muck larger hotel.
"'And,' added the gurt. Tin willing
to provide yon with the hotel.'
""Jvnc the that same jruest has invest
ed many millions of dollars in hotel
under UoMt s direction. The guest a
William Waldorf Astor."
Qualified Twice as Many Men as Any
Other College.
Springfield, Mass., May 20 Dartmouth
officers were elected: President, Mortimer college, qualifying twice as many ath
Proctor of Proctor; vice-presidents, J. L.le.tes as any other mututition tn the pre
(..nswold of isennmgton, M. h. W heeler I limmary events ot the rew Jt.ngln.nd in
of Rutland, John M. Thomas of Middle- tcrcollegiate Athletic association's an
bury. Guv W. Bailey of Essex Junction, nual championship meet yesterday, went
Chicago, May 20. With at least 16 1 Frank L. Greene of St. Alliens; recording far toward retaining its title a loader
names to be presented to the Republi- secretary, f.. . aursn ot urandon; cor- oi uie association.
1 A i' f D i I icBi'tiiuiiiu orLicmi Y, Afl. u, I uin Ul I Atl Idle I Ull I Lll in.11119 1,1117 Illt'rfc
L All iiaviuiiai vvii wen ili'll ivi vuiiRluri a liuh I ,, . rv. r. v, I i , , .. . j i- 11
Burlington; treasurer, T. S. Dean of Bur-lord was broken, tockey Andrew Kelley
f-rcaiucmmi numnm, it iworar llrltoni Jn addition to the officers the of Holy tc scampered 22( yards to
knoVn yesterday that a move is on foot membere of the executive committee are: new nuirk of 21 3 5 seronU for tbat dis
to limit the time to be consumed in noin- p. Taylor, Burlington; Redfirld Proc- Unce, and finished looking back at the
inating and seconding speeches. i-ritUv, tor. IVoctor: A. F. .lone. niirli,rton; fiLst following lipl,t of nualiH.! athletes
June 9, has been decided on tentatively w. E. Eddy, Brattleboro; George A. was 24. University of Maine, Dartmouth's
l'" u"y vn wmcn iiouuni.iiK spe.-ci.rs juthews, Uennington; Willis Ross, number regarded as a close contender of
will be made, and it is leared that it Rutland; II. M. Swift, Manchester; Rod- the Green, had onlv 12 survivors from the
tnose presenting candidates are not nm I nick M. Olzendam, Proctor; F. W. World, day's trials. Rowdoin was close behind
ited the speech making will continue at Morrisville, and H. H. Coolev, Stowe.
sue i lengm as io aeieai ine plans oi i
leaders to have the convention complete
its work in four days.
Sec. James B. Reynolds of the national
committee has under consideration a plan
to give 30 minutes to the manager of
each candidate to be used as desired.
This would give eight hours of nominat
ing and seconding speeches. The sub
ject will be taken up by the national com
mittee June 1.
MOTION FOR NEW TRIAL.
DEMOCRATS KILL
SHIP OWNERSHIP
Republicans Knock Out Provision in the law.'
Measure by Vote of 102
to 87.
Made in Behalf of Key. C. C Wilson, Who
Lost Promise Suit,
Boston, May 20. Motion for new trial
in the preach ot promise suit m whirn
Miss Laura K Johnson was Thursday
awarded a verdict of .tti23 from Rev,
Charles Chase Wilson of the Church of
Our Saviour in Roslindale, was yester
day filed bv Rev. Wilson's counsel, W. B,
('. Stickney and Walter A. Dane, in the
I'nited States district court here. Th
defendant contends th verdict Is
"'against the evidence:, "ajrsinst the
weipht of the evidence" and "against the
NEW VENIRE CALLED
Washington, May 20. Republican
members of the House caught the Demo
crats napping yesterday and knocked out
the government ownership provision of
the ship purchase bill by a rote of 1"2 to
8
H.
To Secure Jury for Trial of Will
T Orpet.
Waukeman, III., May 20. A new ve
nire of ! men was called to-day in the
trial of Will H. rpet, the University of
Wisconsin student charred with murder-
The section killed provides that th hi" form"r weeth.-art. Marion Fran
shipping board, with the approal of the Lambert. Jive days hae thus far
president, mav have constructed and Wn P1" .' tl" examination of 273
equipped, or purchase, lease or charter
vessels to meet commercial requirements
of the marine trade and for ue as naval
auxiliaries or army transports.
Representative Rowe, New Tiork. of
fered the amendment. The Republicans
were reedy for it. having serret!y notified
all members possible to be present, l1v
72 Democrats were in the Hoe and t
Republicans were able to limit d-hat
Before Democrats roulj call in absent
prospective jdrore, and only three; have
been tentatively ecceptod.
Business at the Front.
Bacon It is said that more than 2.
o members of th London Mock Ex
chanpe are eitbeT on etive servire or
directly employed by the government on
war work.
Egbert Do you iwean to say tt now
with eleven men still in competition.
Dartmouth qualified 24 men; I nivers
ity of Maine 12; Rowdoin 11; Brown and
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
nine each; Holy Cross seven; Amherst,
Williams and Worcester Polvtedinic in
ititute four each; Wesleyan and Trinity
two each; Massachusetts Agricultural
college, Tufts, Colby and Vermont one
each.
SPORTING BRIEFS.
Dartmouth, .Maine and M. I- J. are
picked to win the New England inter
collcgiates at Springfield, Mas., to-day.
According to advice of dopester, the
Green team should have a point total of
34 or 35, btit it is also said that both
Maine and M. I.'T. liave a good chance
to oust the New Hampshire college out
of first place.
The Harvard rowing crews got their
real tests to-day, when the varsity and
freshman crews row against the Cornell
eiphts. Harvard has been tryinjj out a
different stroke since tlte rhansre of
coaches and the results of to-day's con
tent will determine in a larjre measure
hether this st.vle will be continued.
Tufts has scored Hi runs to their oppo
nent during their run oi u straight
u tones, ,
they've got "ticker" la tie trciwbe?
members the Republi(ns forced vote. Yonkera Matesman.
Vermont Business Trouble.
Two petitions in hankmpt'-y were tiled
Thursday with Me!k Piatt of the I nited
Mates lixirt. H. E. Jordan of Bsrnet, a
laborer. ha ltb I I " of Sl.lHfi and
at of Sl"". rf whih "o is laime1
einnt. CHarJes W. vtart of V in-lhani
nmt-m 7jM".! an I '.ni to have assrt"
of I"1 K. with exrn-pt.
up an unsightly spot along the highway
passing their premises they have nearly
always met a cheerful response with a
willingness to help on the good work.
TREE CARE DEMONSTRATION.
Washington County Agent Interests
Many Farmers.
bill granted for intolerable severity.
Angela C. Calderara from Carrie B.
Calderara, bill granted for intolerable se
verity; custody of minor child given to
petitioner.
Guy B. Hunt from Margaret Hunt, bill
granted for adultery.
Georgia A. Moody vs. William H,
Moody, petition dismissed; suit had been
brought for intolerable severity.
PhilcmovV eightman from Henry Weight-
Twenty-four farmers and men interest
ed in the care of fruit trees witnessed a man, bill granted for intolerable sever
pruning demonstration which was given ity.
yesterday afternoon (at the farm of A. T. Robert Cruickshank vs. Shurlie Cruick
Smith and eon on the east hill by County shank, petition dismissed; suit brought
Agent F. H. Abbott of the Washington for intolerable severity.
County Farmers' association. ,.m Norma Pedrozo from John Pedro.o, bill
The first demonstration was an illus- granted for refusal to support; alimony
tration of the two main methods of prun- of $8 a month to be paid for a year, be
ing two- and three-year-old trees. The ginning June 1. '
scaffold method and the upright stock I John Mason from Gladys Mason, bill
method were illustrated on trees adapted granted for adultery.
for the purpose. On the older trees, those
from five to ix years jld, was shown the.
proper manner or cutting out tne tops to
give more open formation in the center
of the tree and also to keep the height
down for greater facility of harvesting:
and spraying.
On the still older trees the agent
showed how it was possible to make .the
GIRL STRUCK BY AUTO.
Seven-Year-Old Elvia Comolli Was Slight
ly Injured.
Automobile No. 1 1,430,' said to be a,
Ford jitney owned by a Montpelier man,
ran into Elvia Comolli, aged seven,
bearing branches .come out nearer thei.ht.Ar of Titi- ua Mr. Anri. r rv
ground by cutting off the tops of mam molli of 27 Bertin street Friday afternoon
branches and also to give them greater ,nd injured the child so seriously that a,
opportunity for growth by cutting out phygjcian was called. Eye witnesses
stated that the Comolli girl and other
the practice. Cognizant of the fact that
the committee had the power to propose
legislation against the practice, the com
misioner said:
"Legislation prohibiting wire tapping in
police work is legislation in behalf of
law-breakers. It would destroy one of
the police's most potential weapons."
ENTICED OVER LINE.
Then William Burke of Fair Haven Was
Arrested.
Fair Haven, May 20. WiJIiam Burke
of this town, who bears an unenviable
reputation throughout Rutland county
was enticed over the state line from New
York vesterday afternoon bv officers of
the law and then arrested on a governor s
warrant, charging him with violation of
his parole on which he was released from
the house of correction at Rutland after
serving 21 months of a three-year sen
tence for jail-breaking. After complct
ng his sentence, Burke will have to face
i charge of larceny for stealing $UM)
worth of goods from the store of Abe
MarkofT of this town. It was in tracing
the thief who committed this latter crime
that the officers ran across Burke's trail,
although they bad been searching for him
for some time. Durke s record includes a
number of offenses committed in New
York, as well as those in Vermont. The
officers who made the arrest were Deputy
Sheriffs rascal Ricci of Rutland, A. A.
.oonerd of Wallingford, and Carl Reach
of Castletun.
BISHOP LIST COMPLETED.
Methodist General Conference Completed
Election Last Night.
Saratoga Springs. N. Y., May 20. Sev
en new names appeared on" the roll of
bishops of the Methodist Episcopal
ohuroh last night. Four. Matt S. Hughes
of Pasadena. Cal., William P. Oldham
of New York. Franklin Hamilton of
Washington. D. C, and Charles B. Mitch
ell of ChU-ago, were elected by the
general conference during the day and
iast night. ;
The others. Dr. Tiiomaa Nirviolson of
Now Vork. Herbert Wei. of Delaware.
Miio. and Adna W. lonanl of Seattle.
Va!-h were selected earlier in the bal
loting.
lhe 17th and final ballot was taken at
0 o'clock Ut n ght and resulted in t-He
ele-tio of lr. llanii'ton. who was the
last bishop to be chosen. He aocured 514
ot. whK-n was nv more than trm re-
uired unrulier.
tne wounas caused Dy tne cutting were i.iMrn nlavin nr t.ha roadsidn
washed with a solution of corrosive sub- when litt,e EIvia Btarted to cross the
lunate (one tablet to a pint of water) .trw Ahn.,t. that, tinm a. vonntr man
and the larger of them were painted with geverl young women aboard the
with white lead and oil. Mr. -Abbott ex- &r wheeled into Berlin etreet. As the
plained that on the older trees having r .niiroa.-herf. annarentlv the irl he-
niany sproute, it is usually advisable to 4)nfusied and before the driver could
train these sprouts into productive wood gtop his machine, the child was thrown
rather than to try to save the older t fl, -,.,j Th. ...r- w.a Kminrht .
branches. These sprouts may be cut back i,it .i f h vhil assist.!
and handled in the same manner as a j rem0ving the injured one to her home,
young tree and favorable results are Joe Wt Jackson, who was called to
usually to be obtained from such treat- th(5 Comolli home, thought that a bone
ttlt. At.- lxi, or rtrrhf limh M Hrtvo ill HIiL Ia
Proper tillage of the soil in a young migU bave been fractured. The limb
orchard is of considerable importance. wag tiy swollen and it was decided
Perhaps the best method is the practice that a gubsequent examination might dc
of yearly ploughing and the planting of t(,rmine definitely the nature of her in -
n the left car and
trsatsd hy the nhv
green reea or may be ploughed under as gil.jan The child suffered considerably
a soiling crop. This keeps the ground from the proceeding from her mis
loosened, furnishes moisture and make hapi bllt it ;g believed that she will make
plant food more hvailable to the trees. a quick rec0very unless it develops that)
It is not advisable in the case of young gUr. ggtaincd a bone fracture,
trees to attempt to do all the pruning at Thi vir rmonrA of automobile acci.
once but it is better to work gradually dentg ig fog kfpt at poiiec headquar-
lu""ru l" ucsireu siiapo irura year io ters and the occurrence yesterday was
year by the cutting out of the smaller ronnlnj tn th offi.ors 'The driver of
branches and allowing the laterals to fill the informed the child's father that
in the open spaces. The essential point he woid Kiaj to 8cttie any bjH3 ae.
in pruning is the cutting back of from
one-third to one-half of the last vear's
growth on the upright and outward grow
ing sprouts on the outside and top of the
tree With the object of securing greater
symmetry.
The spraying of the trees was briefly
discussed by the demonstrator, who said
that, under local conditions, the young
orchard which hi not affected with any
disease will probably be sufficiently pro
tected with one spraying a year. This
should take place directcly after the fall
ing of the blossoms and the spray should
be directed at the ends of the branches
cruing from the accident.
$75,000 LOSS BY FIRE.
Belden Branch of Vermont Marble Co.
Burned Out
Mjddlebury, May 20. About 2 o'clock
Friday morning Clayton Warner discov
ered a fire in the rubbing-bed room of .
the Belden's branch of the Vermont Mar
ble Co.,' located at Belden's. about two
miles north of this village. He promptly
gave the alarm to the rest of the em-
and the top and sides of the tree in order Plo'M of tlle mi,l but the? havc n1
to reach the calyx end of the apples. fir apparatus, the property is a total
The object of spraving is mainly to afford lofs- The fire V& rapidly as it fol-
protection from 'the eodlin moth, the lowed a Peasy line shaft and the build-
canker worm and the apple scab and the ln was quickly ablaze. I ne loss is esti-
railroad worm. The proper spraving fluid maiea at aooui ,o.w mm i r"'".'
should be made up of one gallon of the covered by insurance. It is understood
commercial lime-sulphur compound to 40 t,1Rt thp company vni not remind, nut
gallons of water. Two and a half pounds reopen kt.once a mill which they
of arsenate of lead should also be added "n in Brandon and will transfer the
as a poison to the eating insects. men io thzit ,,nP- T,,e 1,1,11 had manv'
Mr. Smith nlans to carry on one of the ""ers ami empiovci ..anu io men,
rPL-lilsr orrhsrd domonkt rat inns iimli.riare imii Ul moriv nr
the direction of the agent and for this
purpose some of the trees are left tin
pruned and unspraved for the purpose of
comparison at a later meeting. It is the
hope of the county agent that more of
he farmers of Vtaslnngton coutity will
become sufficiently interested in the care
of their orrharddi to rotifer w ith him and
to discuss means and methods of iniprov-
ng their fruit trees.
few daVs.
'origin of the fire is unknown.
Tho
BIANCHI ZANZI.
Marriage Took Place at 7 High Hoi born
Street
A wedding of interest to many in the
I-)in colony of Barre .ik p!ae at 7
High Hoi bora street On ftrenoon at
10 o'!.,k wbn Mis Rosie Zanii be
came Uie wife of Lugi I'.nn.hi. The
With his election the ball oting, w hich coup' were unattended and only near
be;n on Tuesday and has continued fr j rlatne of the twide and grmm wit
the rreatr part of four days, w as j ness.-! the remony. . we-i img lunch
hrourht to a close. In annoutvrmg t e- foUowr,! th rinu; and a rep-,ln-ttnn
of lr. Ilamiit'in Ut ejht. P.ih-j tK-n will be heM tl.ts evening. Mr. Bi
np KrVrx k D. jeet who wa prriding. am hi is rmptoied as a g-sn te-ntt r. The
tsl'-d ttt n"er Wfore have so maay "ii'le are to rei-l on ll;V llolbora
b.Vp brn el-tel IS ne daj. strwt.
TALK OF THE TOWN
A farewell rption was held lt
evening at the Holding M. E. church in
honor of Mr. and Mrs. V. H. Conner and
Mr. and Mr. Joseph Hoyt, who are soon
to leave for their new home in Weath
ersfield. The affair was conducted by tho
ladies' and pastors" union of the churtli
and was well attended. A piano solo by
Miss Marion Anker, a reading by Mi
Mary Pishop, a vocal solo by Miss Mil
dred' Higgs and a al solo by Misa
Mary Patterson made up the program
for the evening. E. K. Dais. in behalf of
the friends of the two families, present
ed them purses of gold. The responses
ere made by Mr. Conner and Mr. and
Mrs. Hovt. At the rk- of the projani
a receiving line was formed, in whi.-h
stood Mr. and Mrs. Conner. Mr. and Mr-.
H-vt. IVrlv Hoyt. Mr. and Mrs, S. H.
Barn's and Mr. and Mrs. John No (. .
Refreshments were served at the tI.-.
if the e-ring bv th" aor-iat oinai"l-
of the hurh.
1
