7 y-
be
THE WE
ER. FORECAST. '
Fair, precede
showvs, to-day; fair
IT SHINES FOB. ALL
to-rrn
st winds.
Highest te
, 75; lowest, ss.
Detailed w
irrfe reports on pago 13.
E TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 252.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MAY 9, 1916. tVojijirlfiAf. 1910.6 the J Sim ninUnt and Publishing Association.
en lrm lrm
"PTvTC
FUNSTON ASKS
MILITIA'S AID,
LATESTREPORT
lie Also I'rirt'S IN'tU'rano
iik!! t ol' Border Forces,
It Is Siiid.
AVI I. SOX AND BAKKK
HUM) A COXFKKEXCE
,. .. .. ,i t, . !
PlirSlllt Ot t.lPblC.l Springs
Haulers Is Under
Way.
TKX'AS GOVEIiXOW
SENDS THE RAXOEKS
Scot t -01 rcff m Con f eren ces
rontimie Without Det'i
nitc Result.
A c.iii for the National Ounrd to as
tit In the patrol of the Mexican border
hs been urced by Gen. Funston, ac
cordinc to reports In Washington.
He has al.o recommended a redl-1
position of the forces alons the bound-
sry for tho better protection of Ameri
cans, it is understood. This recom
mendation is said to have been dis
cussed at a conference between tho
President and Sccretar;. Haker hint
night.
Cairanza has been formally advised
by this Government of the new devel
opments. Gens. Scott and l'unlon resumed
their conferences with Gen. Obreson,
but no statement was made after the
meetlnj;.
Pursuit of the latest raiders Is re
prted to be under way. Gen. Funston
ays he hns reached the limit of re
inforcements for the expedition.
MOBILE ARMY IS
ABOUT EXHAUSTED
Wllsiin Mo- He Foreeil to lleijursl
Help of Gimril. I
WA.siii.vfrroN. May llccommcnda !
nuns iruiii aiujoi -nen. l unston loouing '
to a edlsposlllon of forcis for the bet-1
ter pnittrtliin of the Ameiican liordor i
from bandit raids are understood to j
have (..en discussed at a conference at
the While House this evening between
President WiUen and Secretary Haker.
Hotli the White House ulllclalu nnd the
fcecie'ary declined to disclose the pur
pose of t tie ihteivicw, Mr. U.iker also
lefuicd to say vvhcthei Gin. Funston
iw tccitinneiidid the utilization of all
cr TJrt of the National Guard as a bor
dei panel It is understood, however,
thrft sui n a siisgcMIon lias ben made.
With the exception of t.OOU to 3,000
incmlxrs of cavalry. Meld artillery and
irfan rv ail the i.-gular uudilllzed army
if Iv.ijii'i men. liaiiulliiK ,",,(hhj recruits
fnlted under ilie Hay nsolutlon, aie
i.ow mi i he bonbr oi in Mexico. The
tone ,n tn illy mi the border numbers
sppi'iixl.natily gg.ftofi. and with this
lor. e. luniy odlcers here declare, It Is
Inn "ssihie effectually lo piotect the bor
dci '
ilnv IVrguson of Texas Is icnorled
r.e
nine summoneil the Nnllonal
liti ml of Hint Slate to the colors and to
l-ivi -let several companies of State,
ni 1 a mo Gi,. nig Hetnl country to
icmpr ,in with the regular army.
sentiment In Conuxrua.
Mi ".ilii r.s of tin Texas delegation In
l i..i-s .ire re iivuig telegrams urwlng
in! some ai linn tie taken, and sentiment
ii f.i
filling out tho
nerallv'i
liu,i .1 s said to be gtowlnu- generally
ln g 11 1- 111 I tr rM of I'iiiiltik. fintn Ilia
boidr r Suites.
i-i letiuj Lansing, while admitting
th' iftiuioon that Carnuiz.i 111 his note
"ifrii.n.'jiiig a withdrawal of the Amerl
t.n fri es had repudiated this Govern
'' t mule istandlPK that he had agre-ed
to pursuit of tlie Columbus raiders,
in. til that so much , of the original
ugm, mi ip ,,s rifericd lo uiids that
might Mime Unit at Columbus was still
ii tf. t Tain, he Indicated, tho United
S'ii' ivonlil lie acting entirely within
Its i .-h-s If a new expedition were sent
t i hot trail" after tho Glen Springs
i I lio.pnllas raiders.
I'ori.ai leptesentallons Informing
Chi .ii, .a of tne attacks on the two
T. ions. lint demanding nothing
la ' uldil.v in Ihe way of redress, were
i ,t i i Special Agent .lames Lynn Rodg.
nexiio cuy i.ist iiignt, Secretary
ai.v Haker has received no In-
f". thai liny troops have been
1
fo
i io tne line in purs jo the raid
I a it C.s even.i.g :
I . 'iiaiion is wholly in tjen Fun
' i Is Hi.- unlets aie lo protect
' o Ml the 'troops In Mexico
' ' but del an. under fieri Fun-
li..t. i o:nii.ind, and he ran
: t i ' . ir he sees t '
Tivo Vrn I'neliir.,
1 1 v f.ictnis devclopfd lo-dny to
' . ' ii r ilouti as tn the ability of
" 'a to cniitiol the situation In
Ml in worn ir, haunony with
' ' "n 'Jio 'iiiiiieni Americans
' ' itn. 'i i of the nil portB on the
'"'i t.ive appealed to the Amer-
'i.i. 'i- ..ure lot protection. One
companies' Iihh asked the State
i n nt to rave a naval vessel sent
i' it at a lain hour no action had
lllie
.is- ibeiarnl 'n the nlllelal ie-
ihe liepnrtmen! Hint Carramn
M
1
1 1
!
It
fol
n uete iieeliseil of hnvhig
f i i e iiiMMdeis there a monlh
' '.'ff fi.iientliiK iinti-Aiiierlcnn
'"n trmni pioh.ibly heciuiH- of the
Coiitpim,! 011 Thlrtl I'aof.
KAISER CALLS VON BUELOW
FOR IMPORTANT MISSION
I'eare Move May Follow Hit'"
Conferenoo n t Army Head- 1
(jiuii'lors.
KIM. AND TO F. S. POSSUM,!.1
vieem i.ahle HnpnUh to Tin:
London, May . Prince Hornhard
von Iluclow, the former Imperlnl Ocr
man Chancellor, to-night loom large on
the political horizon of Kurope
The only limn llvlnic who has ever
dared to extort from hi Imperial mas
ter t pledge of stealer discretion In the
discussion and conduct of the Merman
Umpire's ufTalrn I now on his wav to
the Great General Army Headquarters
in the Held, In response to u hurry
cull from the Kaiser, who has hidden
him, It Is reported, to a personal Inter
view "of extreme Itnpoitance.
The Prince has spent the greater patt
... me mm ,ear in .-Switzerland, notably
ttl I .(! Hl-tlrt Vllfli' Vl Mil llnSK I ....... .
in urn. ........ it .-.tin .11
. ,,
the latter cit that, according to a dv-
spalch to the Paris .tiilln, the tmperlal I
invitation reached nun. The despatch
said that the Prince was "leaving for
llerlln to-day," but a later niesase '
from Tin- Hague brought the news of J
the call from the Kmperor
Three theories were advanced in well '
Informed circles here to-nlKht with
reference to the possible purpose of the
conference between the Kaiser and the
heto of the famous "Kaiser Crisis" of
190S. They are:
l'lrst: That Prince von lluelow . to
take over the Rovernmentul reins of
the empire by resuming his former of
fice of Imperial Chancellor, succecdlnK
Ir von licthninnn-MullwcR .
Second ; That he Is to be entrusted j
with the Important mlslon of bringing ;
,'rol ,abi throu"h the !
medium of a neutral Power,
Third: That he is to be sent to the I
United States on a special mission fiom
the Kilser to President Wilson.
vhtn,e theory!
It Is suggested also that the Prince may '
sailor to the t'nlted States. It being
pointed out In some ipiarters that Count
von llemstorff's position has become
somewhat embarrassing during the Ioiir
course of the submarine controversy
and that this embarrassment has been
Increased In no Inconsiderable degree by
the recent elzure of certain papers In
the New York office of the former sccre.
tary to Capt. Kranc von Papen, the
recalled German military attache
DENIES POPE SENT !
PEACE NOTE TO U.S.:
.ji.s
Vittienn F.nvoy Says
pontiff Made No Over
tures to Wilson.
ISI'F.rriiATION IN LONDON
t
T"m.?r. WT" "e ' lgnllleiico Is generally attached to the , "' ' .' , . ,11 ', 3,.,, n r .,, far afforded the shin-'
concerning irince von uueiow. Minn arr va In Koine of envoys from the J; 1 ,' "',' , ' ' ", ,'r ," ,,m, thai the nubile,
reports from Merlin said he was to r- Kings of llavarla and Saxony, who had fontlnu ng the President said rur" " 'd ' " vb".lu i conndence in1
sume the Imperial Chancel.lorshlp. while long audiences vvlth Cardinal Gasparrl. , , "There Is no u-e carrying arm- .f Jou a- ro , e to h. v, ' V"1 Vr, .
other advices were to the effect that he i.,,-! ..,..,,.. w.. , do not know what to do with them I the afe arrivals of me un r .
s"inff( f ablt fitiuttr lo Tnr So ! Frank Pierre lawyer and member of. "You see. our tasks have increased
London, May S In response to Tnr. j the fanillv to which President Pierce I tremendously the amount of sea that
SfN's inquiry, the Foreign Office stated , belonged, who was an AsI-tnnt District, )u! lMW '"'J'"1 " "'''"1,'lr 10 l,l'l""'' ",'
. , , . ,,.,,,!.... . . take care of our distant possessions and
to-day that it hail received the follow- Attorney under Fugerie A. Plillbin. now. , j.-ady for exigencies of the most or
Ing conimunicatlou f-or.i Sir Henry How- on tlie Supreme Court bench, and who 1 dlnaty kind, uuite Independent!) of war.
aril. Special Fnvoy to the Vatican. acted ai chief of counsel fur the petl- Increased tremendously. So that
"With regard to the .ternian-Amerlcan i iin..r i,. n,. i ...n..-. 1 ' ''sO' ''"I"" "'" ""'
negotiations It has been widely stated
ihni the Pone last Friday telegratihed 1
to the German limpet or and lo 1'iesKlcni
Wilson urging conciliation.
.-so sucn sicp was i.ii.cn m - . "
U .H.lnl.. tvlll.1.111 fniinilu.
tlon."
It vva- reninrked that till- tnessnge is
"ambiguous," lnnsmuch ns !t 1- under- I known yesterday when his wife, Mis.
stood here that the Pope telegraphed i Annie Shepanl Pieice of 4 lu Went Lnd
not to President Wilson, but to Cardinal , avenue, applb-U to Supreme Court Jus
Gibbons, lice HI I ti r to l a i omirilssioti to ilelennlne
With regard to peace talk, which ha-jber
received new life through the German
note, all that was obtainable at the Vor-
elgn Office was the statement by Itlock-
.i.. xri..i.ir i iw.i Unbrrr Cet 11. tenre-
riUD ..lllllo.t. - , ,,,,,,, ,, , , , oirr.1, .in-, it, in,..- i
..... i.. ih. ii,-ii si. Unci.. r...
senuiiB me
.rnmcnl.
There Is a great-amount of specula-1
Hon on the part of the people In the
streets with regard to an early peace.
SKE M0VE F0R ACE.
I London I'miern Snuuresl New Mean
I llltc III eiernilin .iitr.
l.nvnnx. Mnv 5 fTuesdli) ) - The Hoi
lerdam eorrespoiulent of lite nil Trie
r1? r mm s Mrl i'21'..' 7.!" K,f 'i:, C.rV'',S
"i a" , I, .J, iMr 'xi'iT,','" ,'oM TIT,
already Instructed 1
lf, a.Z Uy l ed H intoln tholr.'ir: Wft i ' 1 "V" ". f
n It hto e e"- ,2 .u ?, 't
r"7JL i,? fnr k, e ne n lea- there '-' ,'V .,, i '", 1 V, ,, '!',5 '
wd e no tWgrant 1 reaches T,ILL care nf his . sn, r tv
if ' h wever K nerlca does nothing ! L" w V I !, 7 Zl
I,, , 1.11; nn t t and tho I ..s the lllooiiiHitiiliJ.r 1 1 o'st t Ti 1 1 1 ii so said
K"S ,1, o "Ambassador! ', r
p" . 'i n ..nnrlniies tlie correspondent,
iierard, continues me ei n. 7 i
rhnr Germany wishes; President Wilson 1
would mediate, the new- submarine or
ders probably will be withdrawn, mil
the submarine warfare will be resumed
with full frlghlfulnes-, with the almost
Inevitable consequence Unit America
will Join Germany's enemies.
"Germany will then toll the peoplo
that It Is Impossible to continue, urn
.ln ,..,l.,ut ,.ti iirmeil w-nrlll.
MIUHI.li- ni"'i'"-' "I'',, , ,
Tlie coriespomlents ot me ini '"r-
finitin and the Ooily AVios agree that the
nullines 01 lire icrui ui.n .-
many Is willing now to base peace uis-
I'US.sion iiniinir o. ,..-.-
glum and north France, wim eionouiio
,1,1,1 mllltiirv guarantees for the retell -
tlon of Alsace-Lorraine tho annexation
of f.'otirland anil the establishment of nn
autonomy In Poland.
Morning paper, which comment upon
the peiice talk scout It as "characteristic
trlekerv" and lecall 6lmllar reports
which 'were circulated In 1S70, They
ngren that there Is nn "Impassable gulf"
between the Allies' and tho Germain.'
peace terms,
WlileMTTlllril nt fSnn's tirreve.
Sprrliil rnlilt littfinleli In Tim dev.
PAntH, May 8. A widow visiting her
soldier son's grave on the field of tho
hul l If nf Ihe Marue was herself killed
bv bombs dionnrd by n German aviator
lu nasslnir over Ihe field.
The widow's daughter, who alio was
at the graveside, was mortally wounded,
Prince von Buelow
was to lake the place of Ir on Jauow
"em . ..mis.,er
i' nrci
It has
neen lor u any iiioimn an open
. .... J....,---
rV' iri mill nil I MHIT inir in nnu-
atut was engaged In piivate and In-
formal negotiations vvlth reitaln high ,
officials of other Poweis In behalf of
peace, thoURh he has himself steadfastly
denleil inat he was there for any ot'.ier
object than to benefit his own and the
Pilncess's health.
It Is Prl- c-e von Huetow to whom chief
credit Is n.ve i for the fact that thus
far there has been no declaration of
war between (icrmuny and Italy. The
Prince was the Kaiser's special emls- j
sary at Home when the diplomatic break I
between the two countries came He'
has powerful and Influential connections j
In the Italian capital, his wife belnc an ;
Italian noblewnmaii
KAISEItHlAKES PLKA .
' '"M- llelllu-
er.-ills' ( onference. Is lleimrt.
,J1..r... ..... . , . '
? il" 1 ' .""T ", l"r, '
lenmndent of the l.x.hange lehgi-jph
rZTSX. tu'T, M '
'1,,"'";V. ,''m": " ! ?:'"? ''h- .,,,'c
graph letter to the Pope expressing the
hope that Pope lleneili-l together with'
the King of Spa.n, would ! able to .on-
struct "a scheme with ttu- object ef
bringing logethtr under the auspicious
emblem of the dove ami tillve branch a'
conference of belligerents for uinsld- i
er.ition of an Immediate armistice m the
fervent lnpe of serin inK an early peace
without detriment to the legitimate as-,
filiation of nationalities."
The circular states that considerable
PIERCE, LONG NOTED
AT BAR, LOSES MIND
Alltlior and Leader ill Attack
'
Oil .lei'Ollie Is Seilt to
.
!t(llllill'l;lli'.
" "
.
I
DA NOKKOl'S, SA YS VI FK '
.... , ' .,'. 1 '
"" ",B remnvai oi i-isinct Attorney
ueroiue, is sunerins; irorn paresis in an j
! iidvanceil stage, lie was commuted to1
nioom11L.,..i,, ,. Arii ... .. .....
"eu"' lhal ll" rfcov,'r
.vir. imico.s loss ot inii.ii became
husband's sanity in older that a1
committee of his person and property
, may be appointed, .lustlie Illjr ap-
, ,, ,,., Wilbur Larrunore. ed tor of the i
I ... r. .... i. ...
,..,, , e,n,e . .-. ier.ii s jnr. i
xlru. Pleree lit.-,, liee liiile. n.l Ik n ,
.IW) Pr ,,. ,l)0. charge of hie private i
plT ,. ,,. t,e was serving mi Ills-
.,,, Attouiev Phllbln's stafl
In her petition .Mis, I'leice says ttt.it ,
her husband la '':) Jears old and that he,
i "Is suftcrlng from paresLs In an ad-1
i valued sliige" She sne he has de-
luslons regarding a minilier nf persons.
Including herself She sis l.e Is'
."violently diingernns." He lias personal
propel!) worth $llS,(inn ami an Interest I
lu real estate tit west Ut-t silreet I
,,,,;;.lo ,. .,, ,ivi( Hf.e
1 paresln in an aiivaiiicu m.ii,e.
Mr. Pierce was formerly 11 member of
the law firm of Griggs, Baldwin tt
Pierce, of which ex-Attoruey-General
John W. Griggs Is the head, uud which
Is now- Griggs, Haldwlu K llaldwin. Mr.
Pierce- wrole in 1307 "The Tariff and
l'lereo wrole lu 1907 "The Tariff and
Tariff aild
ulf, Trusts" and in 1!S "Federal
i'j,urpatlon," which he announced was
based on President Itoosevell's utter-
I ...... .,u p.,.,,,...!!.,.. Il.. I ..iiulltiitlrn. 11...
"ll. 'f 1 ' I.." ..in.. .
said In Ihe bunk lli.it no monarch of
;m0ie other than the Czar of Itiis.sln
nail poweis so uir leaeiimg nun anil-
trnrv s those of Ptesldent Itoosevelt,
the lleform
,0,. 1 i.-ii.i ir ,, 111. -him., .i
1 ,,! (.ty dun-,
1 ..rise In Mnreh.
t: I 111. in rtuM-i Kir. I r 1 1 1
.1
March, I Kir.. I.y 'declaring that
. .........
,,.,,,.,; flll.tll ,imi,,iy ,. u. Kings of Windsor, attorul-
wero trying to aid Gel tunny
ALLIES' FLIERS KILL 27.
Wounded 7, In I'm nc e nml llel-
uiuio In tprll,
Ittiii.is!, via London, May S.-Duiing
Apiil eight men, ten women and nlnu
children were killed by ho lire nf allied
iiitlller.v and bombs dropped bv aero
planes In the captuied portions of France
f.od llelslinn. nc nritinir to the Overseas
News Agency,
I'lie iik. iic) sillies Hint tw enl) -three
men. iwentv-iilui. umncn uud twenty
I three chlhlteti were wounded, Since Sen-
Umber, I'M.', the total number of vie -
tlms Is 1,013. '
'LEARN TO SHOOT,'
URGES PRESIDENT
I "We Want the Peare of tin'
World: Only Force Can
Insure Peace."
'IT IS NOT MILITARISM'
"A Year of Madness." He Tells
Ainerlean I'nion Which
Piir.it s Preparedness.
Washiniitos Mav R. President Wil
son delivered an address at the White
House to-day In which he emphasized
the need for adcitiate prepandness by
the United Slates against the possible
time of trouble
The Prcsldont made his address to a t
committee of the .merlc.m L'nion com-
,,oed of Ml l.llllnn I
Wald. Itabbl
s w , n ,., ,.ln,,h. ,
lletert S Il.iKClon, Max llastman, Dr.
A A llerle and .lames Maurer. president
uf the Penn.viv aula
state Federation of
Labor
Members of the union had Jut com-
plel' il a tour of the cuuntrv and brouRht
the report tj the Pieldcnt that the
people as a rule are opposed to "mlll-tarli-m'
as txeiuphlled in the prepared
nes.s bill
The Visitors recalled that the I'resl-
dent was represented lis "demanding the
greatest navy in the world,'' and he was
asked "to clarify the discussion and
make articulate the fundamental ptln-
clples of the coun!r
Heferenre was made In a brief state
ment by Mr. Plnchut that bills mtro
(lllc J In the New York Legislature
P'ovidcil military training for bov in
simmer camps. Thl brought forth n to-
mark from the President that It Is not to an Irish pott
Inconsistent with American Maditlon that ThlJ ,.., ,), mdlcatir.g iha; n
"everbodv should know hu to slioot i- .,11
and take i.tie of himself disaster had befallen the , vmrlc said
i that the liner was pinking At once the ,
I in pi led In Hill of lilulil. , thcorv pread I hot .he had luen tor- i
Trie P-esldent. referring to the bill. J pedoed. as she ltt .Sen York for I.lver
:r.et tloned by Mi Pmehot. said ! j)0o 0I, April The llnet was due 11
"Now, I .ilte see the dinger that I , , , ,,., ..,! ,. The
Mr Plnchot perceive, in the laws thai '"" ,,! t,u' 1"u' ,Mjrt lo,,'l Tt" ,
he referred to. b-cau-e tlte.v seem to as- Cymrn curled in pasenae!-. I he . rew (
socl.itc mll'.tarv training vvlth public . numbered about l""-
aUthoilt and to draw that training into, One of the ie.is.ms wh considerable
some sort of connection with mllltarj I doubt was cast on the irpor; is the fact
org.iniE.itlon " that sin e the While Star liners have
Nevertheless the President went on to b i mkeii into Gove11111w.it .service,
sav that it wa a gixl thing to know ;hev luve been met by a strong coidon
lm'w to handle .irme of "turpi do . r.itt lonvov. ..- the a p. i
That is dtlncll Implied In niir bill
should say that It was no: Inconsistent
with the traditions of the rountiy that
the people should know how lo take i
care of themselves, but 't Is uicni slstent
with the traditions or the country tint
their knowledge of .rnis should be ti-el
by a governmental m giirzatiou hi
would make and ni.anUe a great arm)
subject lo orJers, to do what a p.uticulur
group "f men might at the time think
It was hcM to have ll do
Thai Is the mil lar siu of llumpe.
when- a few persons .an d. termuie ivli.it
an armed nation is to do Tlt.it is what
' understatul militarism to be. Hut a
n ii. on acquainted with aims is not a
militaristic nation, unless theie is some-
body who can b an order determliiH
what they shall do with thill force I
think we ought to be vei.v careful not to
ot dllTerent things seem .is If the
I were me same.
1 INillc.- Itelllreliiriit Inereiise.
tagonize reasonable protection In
our
effort to avoid militarism.
I do not think It Is going to need
any very great effort to avoid militarism,
because 1 quite agree vvlth you Cut
there we have got the sentiment of a
I gteat body of people behind us
. that, after all, It all that we -are t
and
ii bout.
'As lo tlie general thing we ire all
most profoundly Inter ..iied In and that
Is peace, we want the peace of the world
Now, I do not know, I cannot speak
about vi hat I am going to speak about
with ah degree of confidence I do not
suppose any man cm but a nation
which by Ihe standards of other na
tions, however mistaken these stand-
,
arils tuny
be. Is regarded as helpless
, , general . ounsel to be regarded
' -V .
ns negligible, and when ou go Into a
conference to establish foundations for
the peace of the world ou must go In
on a basis Intelligible to the people ou
are conferi lug with
" Irnr of Madness."
"This Is a year nf m nines.- II l a HiltMi seamen, Including nve olllcers.
) ear nf excitement, more profound than iTbere may have been American dt-1 lighter punl.liment.
the world has ever known before. All izciis In her crew, but none wns shlvvl The juroi.s regarded I-ay a- an ex
tho vvotid Is seeing red No standard here, and and the While Star local office tremely clever man and he ma) )et
we have ever had obtains any longer has no reemd of those shipped at I.lver- figure in a more startling light In con
in ihe clrcumstntiies It is America's mini. neciinn with Plans to hinder the Mu
I'ltv '" 1,'1. '
very hard lead, to know Ihe facts of
tllol(,
will, .eslralnl, will, icasnnahleness,
kln'' "f '"I"'"'1'1"'"
, """H. ""'I '' ?f,t',''-
' ' um "l""'1, ' '" '"V1
"uch H"',s "s i,r'.' "'!'!"i'" '"r
' 1l" "safely as iig.ilr.s. the itnposl-
,h" C
worm wi-o .,u.r. ... -,.
1 ... . .. undertaken vei v much more
1 ,,, ..f,,lv f the Fulled Slates:
....... -. - .
we have vindeitaken to kei.'i what we
I , ,
J '' ' 'J '."
JJ
legal d as
lemoralilrig and hurtful
ill Itilllletices out of tills lieml- .
ni, I 1 1 ... I nin.-iliu lllill If tin. .vnrlil I
'' '. ' ' 1'"" .." .Y. .
ii.h',,i, nu w.. ll linn,. It will nmler.
take, a joint elToit lo keep the peace. It j
will expect us to play our ttropoi tlonal ,
part In manlfistliig the foice which h
goln-! lo rest back of thai.
"In the last analysis the peace of so
ciety Is obtained b foice, and when ne-,
, .., ,.. 1, ,.nmo bv nnlnli.ii. but
1. k ,)f ,,, nUlnn ,, nimiile ap -
Vf f, , '.. The inciter Iv r
) "
i !..- k,
"ft ' .,,,) be wrong, but vou'l.ave
l being, until .vou are more numerous than
I ,tn ui-a Tlmt Is what I linderstniiil It
we are,
n......,..u ...
"Now, let us suppose that we have
f.niiKd a family of nations and that
I.. ... it .. ..r ti.iiiiniM hiiiu 'Tin. unit. I is ,,i
'going to have any "morn wurs of this
,sorl wlthuut nt least first going through
certain processes in show whether there
Is anything In lire case or not,' If you
say 'We shall nnl have nny waC vou
have got to have the force to irmke that
' 'shall' bile. And the rest of the world.
If America lakes pail In this Ihlug, will
I have Hut i Ight to expect from her that
.she cnntiihute- her element of force to
the general tindeistaiiillng S.nelv that
r Is not n militaristic Ideal. That 1 a
j very practical Ideal."
WILSON DEMANDS BERLIN KEEP PLEDGE;
SA YS BRITAIN'S CASE IS NOT IN VOL VED;
CYMRIC, ARMS SHIP, HIT BY TORPEDO
LINER CARRIED
N0PASSEN6ERS,
i ONLY SUPPLIES
London Humor Says Vessel
Was Attacked Near
English Coast.
,m , ,,, ...... ,.. ,.v
m r, ir i i lilt f.i
WAV TO AX IIIISII ROUT
fni' i oMr litipirih to Tnr .r
laiNpo.v, Mnv A tepoit was re
ceived here this afternoon b l.Ioyds to
the effect that the White Star liner
Cymric, in the Government service as
a canler of amis and air munition from
the Tinted States, had been torpedoed
At the White Star l.tne olllce It was
flatly denied
Tlie Cymric .m torpedoed at o'clock
this afternoon, it Is reported She Is
-.il.l to b" tlll .tlloat nnd mi "Jvr way
proach the w.n zone. 1 norouu-n inw
l.lhvil i ii .it
HAD 1MMESSE CARGO.
,il t Wnr Vliitrrliil thiiartl
M,i He s-..iMHi,ooo.
Tin- !-a', 'lib 'I ti.e VMllir . ar i.me
l.inl icceiveil no word eterda from
the Liverpool agents about the report i
that the Cyinr liad been totjiedoed.
and the impression of the agent- lure .
vviis mat she was all light
Heretofore she ha- b. en en orlcd bv
, toil cdo boats lino tlie zone of s.ifet)
I on lier arrival on the other side with big
' and expit.slve c.iraoes ot iniau'lotis. Her
l.omruander. Cap' Hendnell. has said he
had no fear of Get man mibmarin-s ami
I believed tll.lt bV
lever, seatnansluii he
, i, mbl mum irni'iiv re any of Ihein
,,rs'.:r.i" or'
aneiits of the line .annot compute, hut
it goes well n. lo the millions, possibly
not than live The cargo consists
of about Ki.O'iO ion- This t a lis,
of the ehlff shipments a given out at
the Custom House
5 eie nt tireirtn
pi Clues nt sun
iprolnbly nt ft
i in lie
i as. ol rillr.
. IC piei'e. ot lors
t, 7.1 ea nf f'ic.
1- .IlllollOlllle.
I :i; ea-es ol JSTlCUl
tur.ll in ai tiuv-ry
3 cas.' of i.ittridic
r.ie
ev .ieroplani. and
.". ca of
tun
eiiii
(su rin2.
r.'i ttitnrrii
js C.W..-S of rmpty
.lie, I.
..it cisi's of copper
H I r .1 e t o r and
..'line'
;ibanel0W0!ubri
latlngoit
;v p,,nes ot .pfltrr
M i'nn'1
nf itP.l i
?l I,le of tun
tubs
;.H tir.n.llo" of shoe
part.
t -l.e.uf b.l) Oll.'l
CI cises nf riilibii
boots and shoe
jene of fur
iieatl.
Tcin-s nf rnitil.v
SH b.ilr. nf leather
Wlnel. i birbed
::i e.ie nf inppcr
li.ill ls
projf i tip'
.! b.iis of iupper
nf fntsti c I.d'I case
ni prut
X ItM) e.ne. nf CUT' rod.
Iriiliie.
When the c.vmrlc completed her last i ,ousht ntei vie vvs with William J Fl)nn.
Hlj. to this pnit twelve ,,f her seamen service. As Fay of-
deserted, templed, It Is supposed, by'll",'u' ' '
olfers-of work ..slinte paying well. Fight I trcd once before In tell a slot) tu the
iioi .i, uiiil,et were taken alioard 111' lVdnral nnrhorltles It Is regarded as pon.
'plan' of the twelve, and she sailed with
a crew of 110 men ami ..even distressed,
The Cwnric s-alled from New York t
, for Livrrpool nu April clearing Sandy
Honk I' ll at s 30 A. M. nnd should have
"een off the Irish coast yesterday. She '
made her last trip to Liver ool In ten
daH and shuuhl be reported there to-
'' '...less she has met a mishap.
The Cjn.rlc s a vessel of 13.000,
,,, se was r.So feel Int.g and U feet
t"-' :"' m'.-.nodatlons for l!u ,
cabin and sun .steerage passengers r-ne
1 1...11. 1,. ii..if,... 1.. i.'ie
-
(
,,rn4W to UTXTi AS PfilSnOT.B
I " " """"
for lllilrrlr IVnnle
Mend of llooie for I'.lderly Prnpli'
li I nilrr rrest. I have been executed, by German agents
ILMimntli. Conn. May X. Mis. Mary I" ,hls '"""""y- tnt tti. they were In
K. Archer Gllllgan. proprietor of the ' flueiiced by the single purpose of decld
Aicher House fnr Klderly People, In lK the Is-sues from nn American view
Windsor, six miles finiu here, was nr- , I'olnL
leided b the Slate police to-night. The Jurors regarded hcholz ns a w 11 -
charged with innrler She is accused
1 of causing the death by poisoning of
Franklin It. Andrews. .11, inmate, who,
.
i ,n.-wi im tn in. Mum .M.uiiii. u., u
1 according to ihe certillcalo of death made
1 iug physician and also medical
n'
tiniliiei- of llin tnu-ti of Windsor.
The body of Andrews was disinterred
a week ago by dliectl. f I'oioner Mix
of New llavin count j. and an nutnnsv
,.,.u fm oie.t i.e in- veiinie i Wolff
of this city by dliectlon of State' Attor-
i ney Alcorn. Tim body of another former'
lumiite has also been examined, and In-line )ouok ion nan. nam.
I stead of death being the result of nntural 1 "w" ,lni1 M three defe.iilauis guilty
I causes, Dr Wolff states that It was! on both Indictments, except that we
I caused bv poison. recommend Daeche to the mercy of Ihe
1 The Suite police have lieen working on
. this case for a year, and It In their opln
i Inn Hint out of forty. client deaths nt Ihe
home in live vearH probably twenty have
been the lesull of violence
Mrs, Gllllgim waived exiiuiliiatloi and
j una taken to the Hartford county Jail,
TEXT OF REPLY TO GERMANY.
WASHINGTON, May 8. Th American Ambanador in Berlin wa
intlructed by cablegram tcday to deliver the following reply to
Germany's note to the German Minitter of Foreign Affairs!
Tiie nolo of tho Imperial Gi'inmin Government under ilnto of Mnv
4. 1916, hit rccelvi'd cnrcful coiislili'mtlnn liy tin' (loveriuiii'iit of llif
t'liltiil States.
It N isncliilly noteil, ns tiullcntltn; Hio pnrpot of the liniwrlnl
Giiveiiiiiit'iit iih to tin; fiiluri-, that ll "Is prepureil In do Its utmost In
routine tho oporntlnn nf tln war for tlt n-st of its duration to tlie
tluhtlnc forces of the lielllKerenls" nnd Hint It i delermliipd to Itn
IMise upon nil lt.s comniaiKleM nt sen tlie llniltntlons of tho reroKtilr.ed
rules of Interiiatloiial Invv tiion which the Govprntnent of the fulled
States has Insisted.
TliroilL'hntit (lie months which hnvo elapsed since the Imperial
Government aiuioilticed on February 4, 1915, Its submarine policy,
now liappll.v nlialidolied, the tiovertiment uf the Pulled States lni lieeii
coiistniilly ctilded and restrained hy motives of friendship In Its pa
tient efforts to hfliiB to nil atnlcalile settlement the critical ipiestloiis
nrlsluu' from that policy.
Accepting' the Imperial Goveriiineiit's declaration of Its nhaiidon
inent of the pulley which has o seriously menaced the good relations
between the two countries, the Government of the Pulled States will
rely upon a scrupulous execution henceforth of the now altered policy
of the Imperial Government, such ns will remove the principal danger
to mi Interruption of the good relations existing between the Pnlted
.States and Germany.
The Government of the Pulled States feels It necessary to state
that ll takes it for granted that the Imperial German Government
dues not Intend to Imply that the mnlnteiiutice of lt.s
newly announced policy Is In any way contingent upon the course or
result of diplomatic negotiations between the Government of the Pnlted
Stales and any Either belligerent Government, notwithstanding the
fact that certain passages hi the lmerial Government's nnte of the
fourth Instant might appear to be susceptible of that construction.
In order, however, to avoid any misunderstanding the Govern
ment of the Fulled States untitles the Imperial Government that it
cannot for a moment entertain, much le-s discuss, a suggestion that
repeet by German naval authorities for the lights uf citizens of the
Pulled States upon the high seas should in any way or In the slightest
degree be made contingent upon the conduct of any other Government
affecting the rights of neutrals and uoiicomhatant.
Hesponsiblllty In uch mutters s simri,., not joint, absolute, not
relative l.VNSI.VG.
FAY AND TWO MATES
GUILTY IN SHIP PLOT,
Federal .Inry Conviet tier-1
mans of I'lanninr to DiMilde
Munition Farriers.
(ONFKSSIONS KXI'KCTF.D
L.eut Itonert Fay. a Geiman armv 1
.i . if..... O.t.l I.Ib lirrtfll.r.lfl. '
inner; ,ii.ti rii'if.( iii. .......... ...
!hw, nnd Paul Daeche, German rcserv-
, .t5 netf )ronounted guilty by a Jury
before Judge Howe In the Ciimlnnl
-r -
night on two Indictments accusing them
0f plotting to blow up intuition carry-
trig ships by means nf high explosive
mines attached to the rudders nf the
vessel. The total punishment that un
der the law can be inflicted on each of
Ihe convicted men Is twelve yearn Im
prisonment nnd $'.'0,"0o tine
The jurots retiied at I 30 in the af
ternoon, found Fav guilty on the first
, uuiot, Schoiz on the second ballot, after
(having read to them the confessions
' mati hy ,1,,0, ,m" af,er tMr arr,Jl'
and D.ieche on tne sixin nauot ai m 1.1
o'clo.k after a long aigument. The
Juiors stood six lo six on Daeche on the
I tlrsl ballot nnd after vailou- votes the
, nun Mool, , fof ntlllIu,a lo.Kled
i to the majority nn on agreement that
, " . ,
'mere In his Dcnair snouiu ne urgeu.
i jjpnnatlonal developments aie exfecleel
In the case
Fav twice during the trial
I hM thnt , nMN be willing to talk
, . . .,., ns .,
mei.t of munitions lo the Allies. The
three ronvlclcd men all admitted that
they regarded It a shame that this,
country should be making war supplies
for the Allies.
Jmors Interviewed las night said that
not one man was swned by his views as
to tho merit of Ihe war in Furc-po .
that not even the pro-German on the
jury showed an, luclinatlot, to favor
, the defejulanls, rney auueii mat vvneri
1 .u i, i,,,.. e,., ii,.. ,.r..
, . "...r.. ... .i.m.i.. .1.:. e,.
innven n.v .iiiAie,,, . n... ..1
1 Knlelv on Its merits: that they an-
.,,..eP,ie.i the resnonslbllltv of Ihe case.
, Hs ' Involved the first decision In Ihe
1 alleged rough worn piouen. or sani ie.
1 ot ray. im i.uew w e ueinii-
they had no doubt that whin the do-
1 r..m hhIu .ii.i nor un 1 1 iiiiai 1 tint'
rii'i'i"" "" ..... ...t
! ' ''f bombs to a ship, yet It was their
i .letertiilriatlon so to do,
VV'l.n.i 11... Iiipr.,u nnlni-.,l ilia ..hp.
t room Fay, pale and nervously twisting
his mustache, sat hunched In his chair;
' Hr-hul. wan nnd neivous, sat upright,
' while Daeche, nr ruddy complexion,
1 1 umfii Intently toward the jurors
Not
tlf """"I lo,t, 1,H ''mce or
"l, 11 Beat ure when Howard I attersoa,
t court.
interna came our r.t Hie conn room
, smiling, tscnniz aim ray were gloomy,
Fay said "I have Instiuclcil mv
at-
loitiey. to appeal the case
Judge Howe will impose writciues this
jmomlng.
SUNKEN SHIP'S CREW
IS TAKEN ON U BOAT
Suhniarine fter Siiikinir
Swetlish Sclioonci' (lives
I IJefnire to Sailors.
MKN TltANSFKKKKD I.ATKIJ
Con si! viirv. May The
new of
eight men of the Swedish schooner
Ilaraid were taken aboard a German
submarine after their vessel had been I
sunk bv. the undersea boat
The llarald was stopped on Fr.diy
b) the suhniarine and the crew were al-
, , .,, , . ,
lowed fifteen minutes by the submarine
commander to take to tlie lifeboats. The
weather was stormy and they feaied
that the boats would not live, sn the)
demanded to be taken .ilio.ud the sub
marine They were allowed about d and
were transferred lo a passing steamship.
They weie landed at Horlen on Sun
da) AUSTRIA EXPLAINS ACT.
la Snrr If int-rleHn Wns W'litinileil
111 the Imurmtur.
Washinuton. May - Ambassador,
Penfleld. In Vienna, has reported to the
Stato Department Austria's version ot
the attack hy one of Its submarines on
the Itussian bark Imperatnr, from which'
two mei leans, one of them wounded,
w ere rescued.
The Ameiican Consul at llarcelona
reported otllclally that the Imperatnr
was tired on without warning Mr. Pen-1
ileld'K cable gives a statemi 111 bv the
Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to f
the effect that the submarine stopped a
schooner bark about twentv-seveu trail-'
tloal miles east of the Columbines j
Islands by a warning shot nrmss the 1
si'huoner's bow at about e.OOU meters
dlsta nee.
The statement sav- n second shot wan
fired half an hour later and tin- crew
Hun took to the tioats The sh'p's
papers, the statement continue- showed
only one American on hoard, the sun
marine mmmamici nan no nnnwieiKe 101 uie urn nine in rue miiiui.ii nc 111 r,
nf his being wounded and the Govern-1 nation, to ihe "Hrvan peace tuatres'
merit authorities were regretful if such and Indicates that even f mi, h a treat v
was the case were tu for 'e with German) now it could
... j riot well apply to the siilnnanne issue
PUTS U BOAT TO FLIGHT. ,"hU ",":,"' .'"""i to remove ti,
l"metiaie while discuosion wan progress.
Vieniil f'n'.le lit'iHiieh lu Tnr. M s ""5., , ,.
. ,, ,., , 1 ,s" '!T " the President s basic demand
I.OSPON. May s -The I r tish steam- ,, t,rin.lll lnlm..,.Ul.y ,,,...,. "ml
''''""J,,1"1""''5.' 1' "''m '"""'."f ffect an abanilnument of rts present
rived hi Tllburv In-day Her caplatn methods of submarine vv.irfate s ef)n
reports having fought with a new wo ferll0lli ,,, ,.. ,
niasted German submarine In Ihe Gulf 0xpl lined he uclcr
of Hlsca) 011 May li The submarine. , T, ! , 1 . t s note to Germanv. It Is
he says, appear., from behind a lieu- PX,aI,11.ll ,s .,,.,, . ....nng ii any
tral ship nnd signalled "Stop J'"1' 1 misinterpretations which might ar e
opened II,. from a distance nf H.oun ,.,.,,,.,, , t , , U-f 1 ti 1 1 0 languago of
"The .'.in l.ll.ds, replied .0 the ..re. r,V.V- B.",. ,,.,i"1'1"" "U
.but missed Ihe hilbliiaruie. which llred
C,m .ands.n"Saga.t, 'Vephid"", t
S j ; r
erne nr I, n et. of ihe cr. w s, vs
side iijiil sank.
The submarine had two
dlsappeai ing guns There was no time;
in ilus-c to. in d.v.vr, between the Clan,
Lln!sa)'s eccoiiil shot and the subma
rine's disappearance I
PRIZE CREW CAPTURED.
I '. i : 1 1 1 . i v . vii Louilou. M.i)
lint.
I lh (iriz.e n ew tu charge m Hie Nor
wegian b.irl. IVsl.ilozzi weie caplured b
a German submarliie on Apill "J
The ptl7e ctew had been pl.i.ed on
board the bail: by a 111 It I Ml t cnn-ci about
Dirt miles west of the Hebrides The.v
weie lakltiK Hie vet-sel lowaul Kukwail
wlien a submarine halted Ihe lurk The
ii.crinan coiiimaiiucr oner an unestiga-
lion iooi. me nriusii nuicei aiiit nun men
on on irii nie siiinnarino nun ti ri four
olheiu of Ihe prize clew on hn.i il t',,.
bulk which was bniiinl (lonl M.ihu,. t,,
AiRCiillna with a eat go of cement
La ii si n r Makes It Clear Ger
many Must Yield Absolutely.
(JIVES OUT STATEMEXT
siiowixo r. s. Fiior
"esionsiliility Is Single,
Xot .loin I, M Js Sub
marine Itcply.
SKCI.ETAUV TXSISTS
I.IVES SHALL HE SAVED
Walim-i'lon Expects Im
mediate Acquiescence
From Kaiser.
Washington. May S Piesideli:
Wilson sent it note to-day to the Ger
man Government accepting its dec
laration of abandonment of Illegal
submarine vvarf.tro but rejecting tlm
suggestion mat the Ftuted States re
gard this abandonment as conditional
upon Great llrltam's action with re
spect to the blockade. The President
makes it dear that the maintenance of
friendly relations depends upon Ger
many keeping her pledges I i observe
International law in nav.H operations.
The note Is considered here ns cour
teous; in tone, but Htm arid dellulte.
It I- intended to lenitive ,) doum on
the part of the Imperial Governnienc
as to the position the Fluted St.ite.5
has taken
Secretary Lansing issued to-night
tho following statement explaining
why the Pnlted Slate- cannot discuss
matters pertaining to tin; relations be
tween this Government and Great
llrltain with the imperial Govern
inent. The guale. 11,11! of the lielinull
answer is devoted lo matters wliicn
this Government cannot dii tist- with
the German Government. T'io on!)
Ciiestion of iiuht whvli inn Ii. dls
iiissed with that Government are those
ailslns out of its action or out of our
own, and in no event those ipiestmus
wmcn nie tile slibjei t of diplomatic
I exchanges between tin I ruled Stales
' 'mother ''eniiili.v
il (ieriiiiui. V lelils.
"T1"' essence of the answer ,s that
l"!. J',' '"' '!' e-'.lat, on.
1 I'g.ild to the tights ol me .11.110
sn,s ;UI1 i,ti.conibatant.s on the high
seas atid
ng.lge.s to nliserve tlie
.-.,,,i,-ii oiii'. 01 1111err1a11011.il law gov
lining naval warfare in using tie .sub.
marines again-! met. bant ships.
"So long as she lives up t . tin
altered pohc. w,. can have 110 11 ison
lo quariel with her on tint P,
though the losses resulting fi,,M, ,.
Violation of American riglus by Gir
man submarine commandi : operat
ing und.r the foim. r pnln) wll ,1.1. e
to be settled
"While our d.lf.rerices with Hreat
licit. ilii cannot foim .1 sni,i,...i ,,r ,1.
cusslon with Germane 11 .hmil.l 1...
stated that In our dealing.) with 1)1.1
llnt'i-h Government we are ,n ting .1.
we are unquestionably bound to lit In
view ol the explicit treaty engagements
with thai Government. We have
treaty obligations as to the in.iiiuer
111 which matters in ill.piit,. .cMveen
the two eioveinments are t.. be
handled
We offered to assume mm nalv
similar obligations with liermun. but
tlie offer was dcclninl Win"., tunv
ever. Hie subject in ii.-pute ,1 ion-
tinning men.ii.i to An .an lives ;
Is doubttill whether en. h old 1; ifons
apply unless the menace is removed
dut-tig ihe pendrric of the pro ecd
nig "
llr.nn Pence Irentles.
.'lelary Lansing's statement trferH
, ,". "",'. ,, ' V"" " '' ..
j"'r f the Impcrm, Govenini'ent".'.:
ur'Xr:
"m l tonal law, "upon which h,. iov.
liitei'lireliilloii of loin,
German) in hei answer agieed ti fol
low International law, but. It :s poutte I
out. lef-aiped from stipuliting iviiethrc
tl "' "' 1 international law
uniici sioon ,1110 nuei pi eicii oy .ieiiuinv
or "uitet national law as inulerstood ant
lllleipielcd In the t'nite.l States
Tlieie ate somn radical pn.iits of dif
lercn.'ej the vvaf Hie t.vo ei.nei'iimen s
.titei pi'et. iii'ernatlon.il I uv ,n i .. prrsebv
submarine coiurovi'isy, and the I' csldctic
has 'icteju.ticd that Ihe Aim ne.iti v ew
incM ptifTJ.ll Willi the Imp, i . iljvcrr
nun' . ;
ilei iiianv has lain 1 1 . 'b.i'
,lMt'ed mel , haul tin n ,i c no pi t .-able.
Here 'a' l v.'s-es liu iav v lu'
' p. i' i should be tr. I a- . o h T' .
I'l Wl Si.lles a - t ii, ' i is. w
Ih view anil cni.'e i.s ' mi i "in
tun iniied for ilefeii, . ire en' tied to
