Hasfyn's Letters
Always on The T.-D. Editorial
Page and Always Interesting
lictimond llmeS-IUsiiatrij
"Seen on the Side:"
A T.-D. Editorial Page Feature
?Light, Bright and Unique
6(5th YEAR
vnLl'MK OR
?\ L'MIIKIt 120
RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, MAY 9, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES.
? FAIR
PRICE. TWO f.F.NTS
GERMAN ASSURANCES
ACCEPTED BY WILSON
OBSERVANCE OF
CHANGED POLICY
This Will Remove Principal
Hanger of Break Between
the Two Nations.
NOTE SENT BY LANSING
TO GERARD FOR DELIVERY
denies Right of Berlin to Discuss
Questions Affecting U. S.
and Great Britain.
nils MATTKK IJOI M) BY TKKATY
i-ilie*- Manner in \\ liich fsMics
in Dispute RpiufPn Twii Coun
tries Shull Hp Settled.
WASH I N'fJTO.V, May 1 A note j
> iHed bj S'Tfint y l.ansinc to Am- j
) >> i/lr.- Geraid to-day for delivery
to the Derlin foreign '?fll ? <? Informs:
?!?* German crivernin'-n' that the
i *: j t?-?l Stairs cepts its declaration of
''"ahandonrnent' of it.' former s.jb-|
marine policy. :in??} now reli?-s upon a:
scrupulous ?-x?t ut ion of the altered
policy to ri'inovi' the prinels^al rla?ig??r
of ,?n interruption of the goori rr-la-!
tons ? ->:?ft:t? ci-n the ? wo < <v;n
1 r: <_? h .
With 'his :i< ?:epta'? v i oupled
f-rnial ?????.- ? ??> ? ;eri> .in; that the
United State i .tnni i ? * .i momrrit
Kilertaln. ? ji ti ?-li discusi. a r-uft
kcm Ion 'hat r?-?.prf.? by Gorman naval,
authorities for the rights of dti/.enr;
of xhb I'nltwl States on the high seas
sho;M In th^ slight"*,; dogr** ! <? made
contingent '.;>on the conduct of any]
. *'u r <m nn'?nt affr. tin;.- the rights I
? i nrutrals i< 1 noneoinbatarts Thlti j
i - : r. roi>l\ t ? th< concludluc statement !
ill the last (Hi li,.tii r.otc, to the effect
that uhilc submarine commanders had
!>c. r. ordered to sink no peaceful
freight or passenger-carrying ships |
without warnlnx; or without safety for j
past" nger* and crew , the German rov- j
rrnmcnt would reserve 11? Itself com?
j'leto liberty of decision unless the
!"n:?c<l State* w as s .< cestf'.i! In it"?
? :y-?MP to break the Uritish blockade.
rotary Lansing is.-tied a statement
to-tiitfiit ."aylnp that the ereator part
of ficrmiiny's aiiswrr to th. demand of
pi- United Stale.- was devofd to nut
t which the American government
t", i!,| not discuss with the Hrrlin gov
eminent, but he considered Germany
1*1 ifl.'.'l to oLir representations"
iiiitl 'bat "wo can have no reason to
i.-ir:^! with her" so long as the |
:t11"red policy is lived i:p to
?i m\?i: priii.ic
\FT 10It VuTK IS ?>V WAV '
Mr. Lansing's statement, made pub-j
le ftei the note was c.n irs way to!
I'.ertln, follows:
"The greater part of the German
a newer Is devoted to matters which ;
'n!s government cannot discuss with
the German government. The only
questions of right which ran be dis
cussed with that frovernment are thos?
prising out of its action or out of our
own. and In no event those question0
which are the subject of diplomatic
exchanges between the United States
:ind any other country.
"The ?>5sence of the answer is that!
i'iorm:in.v yields to o:r representations'
with regard to the rights of merchant j
ships and noncombatants on the high
seas, and entraijes to observe the reco???
nlzed rules of international law gov- '
ernln^ naval warfare In uslnp her sub- ?
marines n?ainst merchant ships. So
lorn; .!?- she lives up to this altered i
policy. " can have no reason to quar
rel with her on that score, thoutrh the'
losses ???suiting from the violation of;
Ameri aii rights by German submarine I
commanders operating under the for- >
M*r policy will have to be settled.
"Wlille our differences with Great I
Uritain cannot form a subject of dis- |
cusslon of Germany, it should be stated I
ih.it In our denting? with the Nrltlsh !
government we are acting, as we arc !
unquestionably bound to act In view
of the explicit treaty engagements with
that government. We have treaty ob
ligations as to the manner In which
matters In dispute l.etween the two
governments are to be handled. We
offered to assume mutually similar ob
ligations with Germany, hut the offer
was declined. When, however, the
.? ih.ieof In dispute is a continuing men- j
?ce to American lives, it is doubtful!
whether such obligations apply unless
ili^ menace is removed during the pen
dency of the proceedings."
< <>\\ kxtion m;c;otiatic?
ll\ FORMKIl SKCRKTA It V lilt VAX
The treaty with the British govern
ment referred to Is the convention ne
gotiated by former .Secretary ttryan
tinder which the two nations aprtx-e that
nn> dlsput. arising shall be submitted
to an Investigating commission for one
year before entering into hostilities.
An offer to enter Into such a treaty
for Germany brought o request for in
formation. but formal negotiations
never were Instituted. The hope that
the note might end tlu discussion re
garding Hie conduct of submarine war
fare to-night wns e.ntertnined by some
ofllcials and by persons in close touch j
wlrh affairs at the German embassy.
Should this provo true, the way would j
l>e cleared for renewal of negotiations j
for settlement of ihe Lusitaniu, Arabic, j
Sussex and other cases growing out ofi
illegal submarine attacks.
Accepts Germany's Declaration
of New Submarine Policy
WASHINGTON. May S.?Following
is the text of the nolo cabled to-day
by Secretary I.ansinp to Ambassador
Gerard, ai iierliri, with instructions to
deliver it to the German Minister of
Foreign Affairs
"'The note of the imperial German !
government, under date of May -I, 191t>,
h.is received careful consideration by |
i he government of the Cnltod Suites 1
It is especially noted, as indicating j
the purpose of the imperial govern-!
inent as to the future, that it Is "pre- J
pared to do its utmost to confine the
operation of ?he war for the rest of'
its duration to the fighting forces of
t!???- belligerents," and that it is deter
mined to impose upon all its com
manders at sea the limitations of the
recognized rules of International law
upon which the government ??f the I
United States has insisted.
"Throughout the months which have
?? lapsed since the imperial government
announced on February It. 1015, Its;
submarine policy, now happily aban
doned, the government of the l.'nited
States has been constantly guided and i
restrained by motives of friendship in i
its patient efforts to bring to an ,
amicable settlement the critical <|ues- I
tions arising from that policy. Ac-'
ceptlnp tin* imperial government's i
de< laratton of its abandonment of the j
policy whi- h has so seriously menaced 1
? he pood relations between the two I
countries. the government of the
GERMANS TAKE ENTIRE "
SYSTEM OF TRENCHES
Notable Capture on Slope of f 1 ill
304. I rene!) Suffering Very
Heavy Casualties.
LOSK PART OF TKRR1TORV WON
To Fast of Verdun and in Woevre
Artillery Activity Continues Vigor
,,us?Offensive Launched Against
Russians South of Illukst.
An entire system of trenches on the j
northern slope of hill 304. northwest of
Verdun, ha/? been raptured by the Ger
mans. according to Berlin, and the!
French in the fighting suffered extra-|
ordinarily heavy casualties. In addi-i
tlon. forty officers and 1,C?0 soldiers!
wte taken prir:onc-.
Paris reports that to the cast of the:
hill, the German? were driven from a
communication trench which they j
previously had penetrated, and that to '
the west of the hi'l a German assault j
against French positions at hill 2S7
was put down by the French tire.
A heavy German bombardment is in
progress against the Avocourt wood, i
and the entire region of hill 301, while'
to the east of Verdun and In the Woevre
the artillery activity continues vig
orous. Around the Thiaumont Farm, .
north of Verdun, a French attack broke!
down and 300 men were taken pris- j
oners. I
The Germans on the Russian rront j
launched an offensive to the south of '
Tllukst. but met with no success. Mine!
lighting and bombardments continue at I
various points along this line. In Ga- '
licia, to the north of Tarnopol, the j
Russians captured a mine crater from i
th* Germans j
In tho ficrhting in Asia Minor the t
Russians have compelled the Turks to j
withdraw from their entire flrat line |
trenches in the region of Erzingan.
Attacks by the Austrlans against the j
Italians in the Marmolada, Falzarego !
and other sectors were repulsed. The i
bombardment in the Adamello region j
continues. Here the Italians have de
stroyed nn Austrian defense work on;
Col Topete.
The Turkish cruiser Breslau is re. j
ported by Petrograd to have bombard- j
<vl Kupatoria, in the Crimea. The town ;
Is described as an unfortified health !
.station.
The entente allied front in France'
has been strengthened hv the arrival of j
Australian and New Zealand troops, j
who have taken ovor a portion of the :
front.
PIOIITIMi OF VIOLENCE
ll\ THE VERDI*V FRONT
TARTS, May 8.?Fighting of great
violence occurred last night on the
Verdun front. Furious German at
tacks near hill 304 were broken by the
French, the War Office announced to
day.
The losses of the Germans are de
scribed as extremely heavy.
The. French attacked east of hill 304,
and drove the Germans from a com
munication trench which they pene>
trated yesterday. Fast of the Meuse
there was a series of night engage
ments. The Germans were driven from
a trench south of Haudramont, which
they occupied yesterday, and thirty
men. Including two officers, were cap
tured.
The offensive movement yesterday
covered a front of two kilometers be
tween Haudramont wood and Fort
Pouaumont, costing the Germans Im
portant losses.
Other developments of yesterday are
described textually as follows:
"The night passed quietly on the re
mainder of the front, except in the re
gion of the wood of Remieres and tho
wood of .Toury, west of Pont.-a-Mous
son, where our artillery was very
active.
"Two German aeroplanes have been
brought down, cs a result of aerial en
counters in the region of Verdun, One
of them fell not far front Or lies. and
the other, seriously damaged, was com
pollod to land south o? Azarpos."
j United States will rely upon a s.crup- j
ulous execution henceforth of the now
altered policy of the imperial govern - '
ment such as will remove the prin
cipal danger to an interruption of the
good relations existing between the
United States and Germany.
NOT (O.NTlXGE.Vr ON COl'IISP.
TOWARD OTHER fUSLLIGKRKNTS
"The government of the Cnited ;
States feels it necessary to state that i
it takes it for granted that the im- i
'< perial German government does not 1
intend to imply that the maintenance!
of its newly announced policy is in any j
way contingent upon the course or j
result of diplomatic negotiations be-i
tween the government of the United I
States and any other belligerent gov- !
ernment. notwithstanding the fa>-t that j
certain passages In the imperial qov- i
eminent'* note of the 4th instant might j
appear to he susceptible to that con- :
struction. In order, however, to avoid
any possible misunderstanding, the
government of the United States notl-j
ties the imperial government that it
??annot for a moment entertain, much '
less discuss, a suggestion that respect '
by German naval authorities for the :
rights of citizens of the United States
upon 'he high seas should in any way
or in tbe slightest degreV i>e made con
tingent upon the conduct of nnv other
government affecting the rights of I
neutrals and noncombatants. Kespon- |
nihility in such matters is .single, not I
joint; absolute, not relative."
WHITE STAR LINER CYMRIC
TORPEDOED BY SUBMARINE!
Probable Thai Disaster Occurred
Oft the West Coast of
Ireland.
VESSEL REPORTED AS SINKING
Crew <?a Roar*] Numbers About 100 j
Men, but There Are No Possen-I
^ers?Within Day or Two of Des
tination on Trip From New York. .
LONDON, May S.?The 13.000-ton
Whit? Star liner Cymric, which for
some time has been engaged in freight
eervice, has been torpedoed by a Ger
i man submarine, according to advices
received here. One report, says that;
the Cymric was attacked in the At-'
lantic, and the infornta' ion of the j
White Star Company ?' Liverpool is j
that the steamer was torpedoed about j
noon to-day
The Cymric It ft New Vork on April
29 with an enormous cargo of war mu
nitions. As she usually makes the
voyage from New York to Liverpool in ;
ten da;, s, she was, therefore, within'
a day or two of her destination. It is ^
considered probable, in the absence of j
deflntto details, that the disaster to;
the Cymric occurred off the west coast!
of Ireland, but whether on the north-i
erly or southerly route cannot be stated, j
The fate of the steamship is not yet,
known, although an early message re-1
ceived in London reported that th? i
Cymric was sinking. The crew aboard
numbered about 100 men, but the'
steamer carried no passengers.
The Cymric was torpedoed at 4 i
o'clock Monday afternoon. It is re-'
ported that she is still afloat and is
proceeding to an Irish port.
NO AMERICANS ON I!OA III)
Ml'NITlOX-LADEX I.INKU i
XEW YORK, May S.?No word has'
been received at the offices of the
White Star Line here, it was said, con
cerning the steamer Cymric, which
cable dispatches from London reported
to be sinking, when the oflices closed
for the night at 6:30 o'clock.
The Cymric left New York on April
29, with a cargo of munitions and war j
supplies Including S.SOO cases of cart-i
ridges, and was due in Liverpool to-!
day. She was commanded by Captain |
F. K. Readnell, and had a crew of over ;
100 men. The Cymric carried no pas-'
sehsers and was not armed.
J. .1. MacPherson, British vice-consul'
here, in charge of shipping, said that)
as far as he knew there were no Amer- j
leans among the crew. The Cymric, be ;
said, arrived here with a crew of 110
men. Twelve deserted and eight were
taken on. In addition to the crew five
distressed seatnen who had been ill.
here, were on the steamer.
The manifest of the Cymric discloses j
that the had on board 101 cases of j
rifles and other arms. f>90 cases of!
primers. 11,049 cases of empty shells,
8,900 cases of cartridges, 40 cases of
parts of aeroplanes, 400 reels of
barbed wire, 81 cases of tractors and
parts, 20 cases of gun parts, 6 cases of
bayonets, 220 cases of fusehcad and
6.720 cases of fuses.
It ICIT1 Mil SHIP (iALOATE
SUNK ON' SATURDAY
LONDON, May ?.?The Hritish ship
Galgate. from Portland, Ore., January
2, for ports in the United Kingdom, was
sunk Saturday, according to Lloyd's.
The Galgate was last reported as
having arrived at St. Michaels on April
24, She was 2,361 tons gross.
TilKOUtill HI.EEPINO CAH TO
AKIIKVIIXE.
for the Summer tourlx'. reason, dully, com
mencing .lune 26. l.eave Hichmonri 11:15 P.
M., arrive Ashevlile 2:40 p. M. Heturnlnr
leave Ashevlllc 6:45 P. M.. arrive Richmond
?;00 A. M. via SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
SCORES SUCCESS
Singing of Great Chorus With
Metropolitan Orchestra Is
Warmly Received.
OLIVE KLINE WINS APPLAUSE
Opening Night of May Festival
at City Auditorium Is
Brilliant Event.
Whatever may be said of the first
concert of t.he Wednesday Club's
annual festival, at least the playing
of "Voi spiel" from Wanner'* "Meister
singer," whtcli opened the concert, was
above just criticism. Indeed, tho Met
ropolitan Opera House Orchestra, by
whomsoever conducted, is nt its best
in Wagnerian music, hut when it leaves
its chosen field of opera it sometimes
leaves much to he desired.
Iti the "Caprice Kspagnole," by Rim
sky- Korsakoff, perhaps the fault was
that of the treat Russian composer in
cutting adrift from the weird, rich and
hara^teristi<- music of his fatherland,
bur the effec.t was not particularly
pl?-a?lng. The Introduction of odd and
unusual instruments was disconcerting j
and beneath thf? dignity of even that
rather undignified "Caprice." One ^
easily recognizes the sheep bells and ,
the cow bells of the pasture, and longs!
for the lusty notes of the anvil, which j
have tn often actually interrupted the j
music of the orchestra at matinees in ]
the past.
The two movements from the "New
World Symphonic" were played with
exquisite delicacy and some unavoida
ble sameness-. Dvorak must have been (
in >i gentle mood, in spite of his stir-j
ring theme, and Mr. Haceman and his1
orchestra must have longed for the
vigor and chaotic weirdness of the over- j
ture to "CSoetterdaemerunp." After this j
gorgeous >v>>rk or* Stokowskl's Phi la - i
deiphla. Orchestra last year, it seems j
unfortunate that another change was)
made. I.et us not forget, however, that
In the "Vorsptel" the orchestrji was all ;
that could be asked.
MA.VM3IIS or \l DIKM'B
<;itKAT!,V IMPROVED.
It :s a pity that the Richmond au- i
diencey on the opening night arc j
sometimes comparatively small. There!
were many vacant seats last night !
which ought to have been filled with
the music lovers of Richmond. The I
Wednesday Club Is for the purpose J
not only of elevating, hut of educating. J
musical taste, and that can best be !
done when a series is heard, when i
comparisons may be made, and even I
a little mild criticism may be in- j
dulged in.
Richmond audiences are not especial- j
lv noted for their good manners at I
musical entertainments, hut among!
other educational work which the;
Wednesday Club has undertaken, it has
succeeded almost absolutely in pre
venting the Interruption of numbers
by the seating of late comers. Last
night, for instance, very few were al
lowed by the watchful ushers to seek
their seats during the performance of1
any number, and those few only at |
tho beginning of the first number. j
It might he well, however, if the j
outdoor noises could be lessened, and
if enough officers could be spared to
patrol the southern and eastern side j
of the auditorium, as well as the north- I
ern and western sides, the audiences
and the musicians would be spared J
many noisy interruptions suffered at I
the hands of frolicsome hoys.
Another achievement of the Wed
nesday Club and its management must
not he overlooked. The programs an-1
nounced that the concort would begin 1
at S:30, and at S:80 to the minute the!
conductor raised his baton for the I
opening measure of the first number.
These comments are not strictly mu- |
sical. hut they proclaim the success or j
the Wednesday Club in very important, i
though minor, particulars.
ART OK Ol/IVK Klil.NR
IS W10M. NIGH PKKKKCT1
The artists last night were Mfss |
Olive Kline, a soprano well known and
popular in Richmond, and Pasquale ;
Amato, the famous baritone, about I
whom some musical people positively j
rave.
The character of Miss Kline's selec- |
tions was very different from her I
numbers when she was here before. I
Her work this time was conspicuously I
of the coloratura class, except some !
passages in Mendelssohn's "Lorelcy"
with the chorus, and the Aria from j
Puccini's "Tosca," sung as an encore
after the song from "Carmen." Her
voice Is very beautiful, and her art is
perfect, and though she lacks In dra-1
matic power, It is a delight to hear her. 1
She sings with absolute ease, without I
effort or straining for elYect, and, won-1
derful to say in this day of varying j
quality of tone, her voice was abso- j
lutely tho same from its highest to Its !
lowest note?from its sweetest, lowest
whisper to its highest and greatest 1
climax. Wauvelt in her prime never >
did more brilliant ulnplng than il was,
the good fortune of the audience to j
hear from Miss Kline M last nights'
concert.
Amato. said to he the greatest living j
baritone, was Justly compared in a j
former notice in this paper as singing !
very like Caruso, the great tenor. They 1
are alike?t.he.v gnsp and sob alike, and |
like Caruso, Amnto's voice changes In 1
character ami quality from note to ?
note, and he sings with tremendous
power and skill, but without sweet
ness or real beauty. His tame has ,
gone before him, however, and lie is j
immensely popular with Richmond aud- 1
iences. as was shown by repeated and ^
continuous and evidently very sincere ,
applause. Resides the numbers 011 the ;
program, lie sung, as encores, our old 1
friends, the "Figaro" song from the j
"Barber of Seville," and the "Torea-i
dor" from "Carmen." as well as anoth- I
er little song, in which he seemed to
be resting after his labors. This was
sun* to tho accompnnimcnt of a piano, j
and though it could not b*> heard. It ,
looked to be quite a Jollv- little song. |
The "Figaro" as sung by "his great j
baritone In wonderfully rapid and j
(Continued on Ninth Page.) j
BORDER CONFEREES
NOT IN AGREEMENT
Old and New Members of Supreme Court
Judge James Keith, whose residua- ;
tion us president f?f the St-nte Su- .
prrnie Court of-Appeals takes effect
Juno 10. J
JUDGE KEITH BESISNS :
SEAT ON SHE! BENCH
Governor Stuart Accepts Resigna
tion. to Take Effect After
Opinion Day.
W1IJ< APPOINT JUDGE SIMS
j Ivouisa* Man Elected by Recent Gen
i era I Assembly for New Term He
winning February 1 Will Be Named
to Fill Out Unexpired Term.
James Keith. presiding justice of the
State Supreme Court of Appeals, has j
sent his resignation to Governor
Stuart, to take effect on June 10. In
n letter addressed to him yesterday, j
Governor Stuart regretfully accepted j
the resignation.
Judge Keith s retirement, although .
j known to be only a question of months. I
I came unexpectedly. The resignation
I was placed in the hands of tho Gov- j
ernor on Saturday. The letter was,
I brief, and read as follows:
May G, 1916.
I Governor Henry C. Stuart. Rich-j
! rnond. Va.: _ i
My Dear Governor,? 1 herewith ten- j
j dor to you my resignation as judge
I of the Supreme t'ourt of Appeals of'
| Virginia, to take effect on the 10th day I
; of June. 13lfi.
I am. with great respect.
Very sincerely yours,
| (Signed) JAMES KEITH. ?
GOVERXOIt STt. AHT j
ACCKPTS HESlfiXATlOX ,
The Governor, under date of yester- |
day replied with the following letter:
May 8. 1916. j
I Judge James Keith. President. Supremo I
Court of Appeals. Richmond, Va.: ;
My l"?ear Judge Keith.?I am in re
j cetpt of your letter of May 6 tendering (
I your resignation as Judge of the Su
i preme Court of Appeals, to take effect '
on the 10th day of June.
In accepting this resignation, 1 feel it
i my privilege no less than my duty to
express my high e timato of the great j
i service you have rendered to the State j
I 0; Virginia, and to convey to you the ;
grateful appreciation of the people j
you have served so long and well. It ;
i is with pride that your fellow-citizens j
| have viewed your career as president j
! 0f the Supreme Court of Appeals, and j
they will gratefully inscribe your name j
among the ablest, noblest and best of j
the jurists who have dignified and j
adorned that high position. The con-,
ftdence and affection of the whole peo
ple of Virginia and their appreciation]
of your character as a man. as well
as their admiration of your fidelity to
duty and for your able and fearless j
discharge of the obligations of your ?
high olllce, is as it should be. the,
highest reward for a lifetime devoted I
to the service of your State.
Very sincerely yours,
(Signed I HKNHY C. STUAUT,
Governor.
nOVKRXOlt Wll.l. APPOINT
Ji;OCK SIMS TO-DAV
Shortly before the convening of the
last General Assembly, Judge Keith
announced that he would retire from j
tho bench at the expiration of his I
term on January 31. 1917. The Leglsla
ttire elected as Judge Keith's successor!
Judge Frederick Wilmer Sims, of !
Louisa. While Judge Slins's term does;
not begin until February 1. he wilt to- '
day be notified by Governor Stuart of
his appointment to serve out Judge >
Keith's unexpired term. A commission j
will be issued to Judge Sims within ,
the next few days.
Although in his letter of resignation
no reason Is assigned by Judge Keith j
for his retirement before the expiration >
of his term, it is generally understood ;
that he did not feel enuul to taking,
up the heavy work of the next term in
the coining summer. June 10 will be:
opinion day at \\ ythevllle, and Judge t
Keith will then hand down his last
opinions as a member ot the Supreme '
Court. To have continued on the!
bench after that date would havo in-;
volved him in the consideration of new j
oases, entailing arduous work through :
the hot summer months.
The retirement of Judge Keith re-j
moves from the bench one < ' the most i
distinguished jurists that the State has
produced in this generation, and one
of the most widely known men in thej
Commonwealth He was born In Fau- j
quier County on September 7. 18T.9. and
i?., therefore, seventy-seven years old 1
He was u member of the. Legislature
(Continued on Third Page.)
iio.. u\il:
?JiitlRe Frederick W. Sims, ?ho will
he appointed to-day l).v Governor
Stuart for the unexpired term.
CREATES CENSOR SOU
Provides for Three Members. One a
Woman, at Salary of $1,200
Per Year.
UNNECESSARY, SAYS MAYOR
Ainsiie Criticizes Recklessness of
Statement of Advocates, and De
nies City Has Been Mude Dumping
Ground for Indecent Pictures.
ollowing an exhaustive and pro
longed appeal from clergymen and lav
mcn. representatives of civic associa
tions and women who arc. in one form
or another, identified with tho social
nfo of Richmond, the Council Ordi
nance Committee last night disposed
effectually of the ordinance which
would make, tho Superintendent of
Schools censor of motion pictures by
not taking it up, and tabled, for con
sideration at Its next meeting, a pro
posed ordinance which would provido
lor the appointment of three residents
of Itlchrnond as a censorship board, the
power of appointment of members of
this board to he vested in the Judge of
the Hustings Court.
Of the three members of tho censor
ship board, one is to be a woman, well
qualified by education and experience
to undertake tho duties imposed. Tho
term is to be for three years, but in
the original appointment for three,
two and one years, respectively, the
first terms to be designated by the
Judge. One mefnber is to be the sec
retary. The salary for each la to bo
11,200 a year, and the members are to
take the oath prescribed for all city
otlicers and to give bond in the sum
Of $1,000. Kor the. expense of the
board 1300 is provided. Appeal from
the rulings of the commission may ba
taken to the Judge of the Hustings
Court. ?
IIOA It 1> IS TO VIHtt' ALI,
IMITLHIOS TO HE I'HICSKXTP.I)
The board is to examine all motion
picture reels to be presented, and it
shall approve those deemed moral and
proper and disapprove those which are
deemed sacrlllgious. indecent or Im
moral, or which tend to debase or cor
rupt public morals or disturb the peace
and good order of the city. The fact
that tho reels have been passed shall
be certified upon the screen. The board
Is to keep a record of all its actions
and make annual report to the City
< ouncil and a statement of the prose
cutions for violation of its orders
which I1'0 0rf<\nS? "f '"laying a reel
hieh has not been passed by the board
lln'n lit?' u U'SS thRn ,S no'' mor*
than $10 shall be imposed, and for dis
playing pictures which have not been
passed the penalty shall be a fine of
not less than $?o nor more than $100 for
for 1 ? an" "0t ,e9S th:,n "00
for the second offense, every subsequent
offense to ?>e considered ... .
violation. onsl?*"'l ?? ? separate
Tills ordinance Is modeled ;,ftt>r .
State law of Maryland, and ??? pro".
sen ed in behalf of various petitioners
11 s" JU' for t,ie original ordi
nance by Councilman Paul, u win be
considered amply and thoroughly bv
tho committee as a whole at its next
regular meeting a motion to refer 'to
subcommittee of three having been
defeated by a vote of 5 to 4.
MOTION I'KTl llKS NOT
HAIOIH I, IV THRMSKI.VKS
The meeting was not without per
sonal incident, and an occasional pass
iev?a!hn?rmS between "'ose who he
; ' th;U censorship is essential and
Inevitable and those who have not been
persuaded that motion pictures are so
generally dangerous lo pUi,nc morals
M to demand supervision. Walker c I
Lottreli. member of the City .School'
Hoard, said w,th .some emphasis, that j
lie believed motion pictures to be ,
powerful contribution to moral uplift I
??" that he thought the world had '
progressed towards achievement ofi
higher standards, and that the chil-'
ren of to-day are better and better i
?dvantaged th.u. they were twenTv'
>-ears ago ll? Put his statement once i
ii he form of a question. and minister I
md la j men agreed win, j,,m tha, (J j
world had improved^ but tried to make1
(Continued on Third *Pag<Tj ""T" J
M>RK KIVKK I.INK TO IIAI.TIMOKK '
New !
M, Enjoy moonllfiht
Efforts Not Abandoned,
and Another Meeting
Will Be Held. *
MOST OF DAY'S SESSION
DEVOTED TO RECENT RAID
Feeling Grows in El Paso That
Situation Takes on Added
Gravity.
; DISCVSS CO-OPERATION PLANS
i
I Funston Mas Full Authority to Send
Troops Across Bonier on
i "Hot Trail."
KIj PASO, TEX.. May 8.?To-Day'B
? conference between Generals Scott and
I Funston and General Obregon. Mexican
j Minister of War, and Juan Amador,
| Subsccretary of Foreign Affairs, ended
' late to-day, without an agreemont hav
I ing beon reached regarding the status
of the American troops in Mexico.
Indications, however, were that ef
forts to effect an agreement had not
been abandoned, and that another con
I ference would be held to-morrow.
To-day's meeting look place in Gen
i eral Scott's private car on the. Ameri
can side. When or where the next
meeting will be held would not be dlsT
cussed.
General Obregon, returning to JuareR
in liis touring car. was asked:
"Is the conference ended?"
He smiled, shrugged his shoulders
and replied:
"It Is Just beginning."
A. J. McQuatters, president of the
Alvarcdo Mining and Smelting Com
pany. was ngain present at the meet
ing of the American and Mexican rop^
resentatives. Neither he nor any of
the others would discuss what- had
taken place.
SEW DKMANDS PRESENTED
TO .MEXICAN REPRESENTATIVES
In El Paso to-night the feeling grew
that the situation had taken on added
1 gravity, following the bandit raid in
j the Big Bend district. It was reported
j on good authority that most of to-day's
i conference had to do with the raid and
| the steps to be taken to disperse bandits
| in Northern Coahuila. New demands
were presented to the Mexican repre
sentatives, it was said, which would
include the co-operation of the Mexi
can and American troops in districts
not hitherto touched in tho negotia
tions.
Whatever the reply, the Mexican Min
ister of War made, it was evident he
hoped to gain more time. The confer
ence began at 11. o'clock and ended in
just an hour and four minutes. To
night more telegraph conversations be
tween General Obregon and General
Carranza took place.
! The conferees could be seen through
j the window of General Scott's car
throughout the meeting. General Ob
regon shrugged his shoulders now and
then and shook his head. Generals Scott
and Funston appeared determined, and
at the same time spoke animatedly.
Subsecretary Amador, following the
conference, announced that no agree
ment had been reached, and that an
other meeting probably would be held.
INTEREST IN STORV
TOLD IIY MINISTER
Much interest was taken to-night In
j word reaching here from Marathon re
I garding a story told by a minister,
j name unknown, who reached there, re
j turning from an automobile trip
| through the district raided last Friday,
last night.
i According tr> this man's story the
j body of one of the bandits was found
j near Glenn Springs on Saturday, and
i on it were papers which identified him
i as a Carranza follower.
General Funston refused to indicate
' whether a second expeditionary force
; is to go into Mexico near Bo<]uilla9.
I Considerable significance was placed in
1 his reply when asked if a report from
I Washington that troops may already
' have crossed was true.
< He replied that he believed they had
["not \ et" gone over.
This afternoon's conference came at
| the end of a day of rumors and specu
! hit ions which reached their hoight in
. the report that a split in relations be
i tween the United States and Mexico
was about to occur because General
; Obregon was unable to command the
i support of the various Mexican gen
erals for the tentative agreement.
Another story was to the effect that
; ut the Sunday meeting the. American
j conferees had notified the Mexican
| Minister of War that the United States
I had neared the IIrr its of Its patience
| and would consent to no further con
j cessions, and that the proposed prrj
! torol would have to be signed as
i drawn up. The participants In the
(conference refused to discuss what had
been said in this connection, hut the
| stories were glvon much credence.
The attitude to day of the principals
| to the conference lent color to the re
ports. General Ob-egoit was In seri
ous consultation with his military ad
visers and with Andreas Garcia. Mexl
i-an consul at El Paso while General*
Scott and Funs'-on held closely to their
private car.
General Scott said that he and G*n?
sral Funston wero waiting for "tfvi
