FINANCIAL EDITIO
N
NIGHT
EXTRA.
iiamtma
NIGHT
EXTRA
c
ji(OU H.-yO. 204
pniLADELPniA, Tuesday, max j, ioig.
CopiniQUT, 1010, nt mi Pcblio Lxdoib Coupisf.
PRIOI3 OB CENT
iBSSl fsmX jUmJLK-
LITIA AND MORE INFANTRY
ORDERED' TO MEXICAN JRONT;
RUMOR SCOTT-OBREGON BREAK
Guard of Three States Will Be 'Rushed
to Border General Obregon Said
to Have Laughed at Ameri
can Conferees'
Jltimatum Reported ; Issued for Withdrawal of U. S:
Troops at Once, With Threat of Attack by '
Carranzistas Posse Pursues Outlaws
From Big Bend Section
WASHINGTON, May 9. General Hugh L. Scott this afternoon rcnartM
(the War Department that Mexican Minister of War Obregon todayipfuscd
igjjrn the protocol agreed upon by them Bcvcral days ago.,
S f?jinAinl firnff 3 rennrtnr! in htvn ttifiinmnft QnnpntnpH r lf. tti V il.i
Hrciron said he would enter into no agreement with this Government because
the calling out ot tne mnma oi the three border States, until he hat'.
jained new information" from his Government.
fc
WASHINGTON, May 9. General Obregon has demanded that a time
ftrjcit be set upon the stay of American troops in Mexico.
The United States Government will refuse positively to accede to any
t'Birft limitation, it was decided at today's Cabinet nicotine-. Thi finvprnmonfu
JFfelicy will be to continue ,to refuse to fix a time limit.
If Obregon stands on his agreement he will be flatly told the United,
'Kfifrq cannot accent finv such conditions. innHinnrh nn hv cMtlncr n flmo limit
(-It might And itself in tho position of quitting the border before danger oj
(uturo rams hau ueen eliminated.
iL Word of Obrcgon's demnnd was transmitted here by General Scott. He.
expected to file another message, presumably after a .conference today.
The National Guard of three States, with four additional regiments of
jifintry regulars, has been ordered by President Wilson to the Mexican bor-
(kfr The action follows tlje bandit raid Friday in the Big Bend territory of
Teias,
, El Pasd reports say that General Obregon, Carranza War Minister, in con-
HttWK with Generals Scott and Funston last night, demanded the immediate
withdrawal of American troops from Mexico, with the added threat that they
Mali be attacked by de facto troops if the demand was not met. This report
m, not been confirmed. i
JKs'On the, othcr-.hnnd, Carranza is said to Have wired Obregon to renew
y Satiations and seek evacuation nt once. This docs not necessarily mean that
5fc-j-i weak did not como laBt night, for Obregon probably made the demand at
i;jftimc and Scott refused with tho ultimatum that he would not consider
jfJfiMer discussion of jjucba flat proposal. --t -y.-r . -
yonsui nrromers ai iii raso nou.ica me state Department that it wai
on the border Jaurcz would be evacuated. Thfs was taken to mean thai
bregon was preparing concentration of the Mexican armies' for a nossiulc
ircak with America. ' ' .
Washington announces that tho Mexican policy is unchanged. Ambassa
dor-Designate Arredondo, Carranza agent, denied reports of the Obrecon-Scott
Iftak. In conference with Secretary Lansing, he charged that the raid in the
til nnJ 1 1' 1 1 11 . i 11 A 9 .1 I- ,, 1
ib ucuu iiuu ucun pianncu oy interests on me .American siac oi me. Doraer.
Seven American prisoners, captured by the bandits in the Big Bend
raids, overpowered their guard and escaped. ' Meanwhile American troops and
posse are pursuing the raiders across the border.
WASHINGTON. May 9. President Wilson todav .called out tho National
Guard of Texas, Arizona and New Mexico, together with four additional regi
ments of infantry for service along the Mexican border. This will call to the
front virtually all the infantry remaining in the United States. s
The State militia forces of three States 'mentioned will add 4000 men to
runstons command and in addition he will get these regulars:
Thirtieth, Plattsburg, N. Y.
i Third, Madison Barracks, Oswego, N. Y. . -
," Twenty-first, Vancouver, Wash.
' Fourteenth, Fort Lawton, Wash.
p Secretary Baker lissued the following statement immediately after the
wmouncement: - ,
The outbreak in the Big Bend district of the Rio Grande has so
LAMA, IIAMMEHSTEIN STAH,
ARRESTED IN ITALY AS SPY
Singer Who Opened Philadelphia
Opera House Kaiser's Protege
MILAN, Mny 9.
Countess Jlnrln Iabtn, tho opera prima
donna, has been arrested here on a chnrgo
of espionage.
Tho Countess made her debut In Ger
many "under the patronage of tho Kaiser,
whose Interest in her created a sensation
In court circles.
Countess Labia was brought to this
country by Oscar Hammersteln to sing
at the Manhattan and Philadelphia Opera
Houses. She made her American debut
at tho Inauguration of the Philadelphia
house, November. 1908, In the title rolo
of nizet'fl "Carmen," She sang with the
Hammersteln f6rcos for two seasons, re-pc.-Ulns
her Carmen frequently nnd wln
nlhg favor In such other dramatic parts as
Alda, Florin, Tosca and Santuzza In "Cav
allerla Ilustlcana."
U. S. DEMANDS
GERMANY SEE
MARIA LABIA
PLOT TO DEFEAT
LOANS BY TRICK
LAID TO PENROSE
Senator's Election Judges
Ordered Not to Give
Out Ballots
McNICHOL MEN TO HELP
Mayor Warns Voters
of Transit' Loan Plot
Mayor Smith's advice to voters:
Demand loan ballots.
Do not let election officers with
hold them.
Every voter should see that he
is supplied with all tho ballots to
be voted next Tuesday.
If any conspiracy to withhold
loan ballots is discovered, quick ac
tion should be taken against the
election officers inyolved.
The voter should remember tha't:
The loans will be printed on a
separate ballot.
Unless voters ask for the special
loan ballot they will not receive it.
Adequate ballots will be on hand
to supply the 303,183 voters quali
fied to vote on the loans, whether
registered as nonpartisans or as
members of any political party. , .
BOMB PLOTTER
FAY SENTENCED
TO EIGHT YEARS
Codefendants in Scheme
to Blow Up Allies' Ships
Get 4 and 2 Years
CONSPIRACY
Continued on Pare Five, Column Two
Mayor Smith today warned tho voters
oi Philadelphia of a plot on the part of
tho Penrose-McNIchol forces to defeat the
.transit loan -and-the loan, for general Im
provements next Tuesday.
This step to prevent tho passage of the
measure called for the assistance of Pen
rose'McXIchbl controlled election officers,
who' were to prevent a heavy poll for
the loans by keeping from the voters tho
separate ballots upon which the votes
for the two Joan measures were to bo
marked.
When this rumor reached the Mayor ho
was prompt to express his indignation.
Separate ballots are being printed for
the loans, and, accqrdlng to tho "Instruct
tlons" being given tho Penrose-McNIchol
election judges, they are not to be given
to the voters unless the voters ask for
them at tho time they obtain their party
or nonpartisan ballots.
MUST ASK FOR BALLOTS.
If the 'plans of 'the opponents of the
loans are carried, out every voter mdst
ask for the loan ballot when he goes to
the polling place, or It will not be given
to him.
Tho followers of the opponents of the
two loans are being told to cast their
votes against the measures, so that tho
opposition to the loans will poll their full
strength, while the supporters will be de-
Continued on race Tour. Column Thrre
SCORED
(
NHW YOIIK, May 9. Lieutenant Rob
ert Fay, of the German Army, who was
found guilty of conspiring to blow up
ships carrying ammunition to the Allies,
was today sentenced to eight years In the
Federal penitentiary at Atlanta. Walter
Hcholz, a codefendant. was sentenced to
four y.ehr.3, and the third defendant. Paul
Daeche" was sentenced to two years. A
nominal line of $2 was Imposed upon each
of the defendants.
Fay's separate sentences wcro two
yenra upon one count nnd eight upon the
other, but, as tho sentences run concur
rently, Fny will have to serve only eight
ycais In all, for, while ho Is serving tho
sentenco of two years he la also serving
two years out of tho other sentenco of
eight years.
Scholz wns also given two sentences,
ono for two years and the other for four
years, but his sentences also run concur
rently, so that his total tlmo to bo served
Is only four years.
Daeche was sentenced two years upon
each of two separate counts, but his sen
tences likewise run concurrently. Ills
.total .sentflcetpbe served la-two years.
The original charges In the indictments
were merged, which -was responsible for
tho sentences running concurrently. Sen
tenco wai.ltnposed by Federal Judge alar
land B. Howe. Counsel for the prisoners
announced an appeal would bo taken.
These nro tho first prison sentences Im
posed upon principals In German plots In
this country.
In sentencing the man Judge Howe
said:, ,
"Men such astyou, who have no respect
for human' life, should know that the laws
of this country nre not suspended, even
though there 'Is a war In Europe."
The men were found guilty by a Jury
which returned a verdict last night after
being out live and one-half hours. It
.was reported Fny was found guilty on
tho first ballot, Scholz on the second and
Daeche on the ffxth. Almost half ths
jurors held out tor "not guilty" for Daccho
until ngreement was reached that len
iency be recommended.
U-BOAT PLEDGE
President's Note, Now in
Berlin, Refuses to Ac
cept Any Conditions
CYMRIC NOT AN ISSUE
Torpedoed Liner in British Ad
miralty Service and Cur
ried Munitions
WASHINGTON. May 0. Tho l)nlled
States considers the submarine Issue with
Germany closed, with the dispatch of tho
President's reply to Berlin It Will bo re
opened only If the pledges accepted by
thlB Government nro violated or Germany
says that they aro withdrawn because ot
the rejection of tho suggestion that they
hinged on action by Great Britain.
TEXT OF NEW NOTE.
The text of thn nolo follows:
The note of the Imperial German Gov
ernment, under the dato of May 4,
1010. has received careful considera
tion by tho Government of the United
States It Is especially noted, as Indi
cating the purposo of tho Imperial .
Government as to the future. Hint It
"Is prepared to do Its utmost conttlne
tho operations of 'lie war for the rest
of Its duration to tho fighting forces of
the belligerents," nnd It is determined
to impose upon all Its commanders nt
sea tho limitations of tho recognized
rules of International law upon which
the Government of tho United Stutos
has Insisted. -
Throughout tho months which have
elapsed slnco the Imperial Govern
ment announced on February 4, 1915,
Its submarine policy, now happily
abandoned, the Government of tho
United' States hns been constantly
guided and lestralncd by motives ot
friendship in Its patient efforts to
bring to an amicable settlement tho
critical questions nrlslng from that
policy.
Accepting tho Imperial Govern-
EXTRA
4 DIE IN POWDER PLANT EXPLOSION
AT LANDING, N. .; 100 INJURED
NEW YORK, May 0. Four persons were killed and more than
a hundred Injured In an explosion In the mixing plant of the Atlas
Powder Company, at Landing:, N. J., near Lake Hopatcong, this
afternoon.
SWEDISH STEAMSHIP BLOWN UP BY MINE
' COriiNHAatiN, May 0. The Swedish btcainshiji Svauhold haa
been blown up by a mine.
TRIMMER BURIED UNDER TONS OF COAL ON SHIP
For two days and a half Antonio Barranco, a Spanish coal trlmmer.i cm
ployed by. the British Government at Gibraltar, was burled under tons of coal
in the bunkcis of tho British steamship Tremorvah, which arrived here by way
of Cuba. Tho mnn wns caught under the coal whllo tho vessel was loading.
Only tho fact that ho was In tho first bunker to be used saved his life.
CHICAGO GARMENT WORKERS VOTE TO STRIKE
CHICAGO, May 0. More than 2000 garment cutters voted to strike today.
This will throw 10,000 other clothing workers out of Work.
Continued on I'nce I'our, Column Tour
CYMRIC, TORPEDO
PREY, SINKS; WAS
ADMIRALTY BOAT
Five of Crew Victims in
U-Boat Attack on British
Munitions' Carrier
"SNYDER FOR AUDITOR ON BRUMBAUGH TICKET
SCItANTON, l'a May 9. Specimen ballots, marked for the Brumbaugh
slate nnd delivered at local Brumbaugh hcudquartcrH here today, have crosses
nfter the names of Harmon M. Kcphart for Stnto Treasurer and Charles A.
Snyder for AudKor General. Local friends of Ambler have been taken by sur
prise through tho apparent Indorsement of Snyder's candidacy by V. W. Floltz
and other Urumbaugh leaders. Leaders on both sldcn hero favor Kephart.
BURLINGTON INCREASES WAGES OF SHOPMEN
CHICAGO, May 9. Tho Chicago, Burlington and Qulncy Railway has vol
untatlly advanced nil shop men 1 to 1 cents nn hour. ,
Youth Held for Robbing AVoman
Louts Letharge. 19 years old. who says
his home Is In Pittsburgh, was held in
$2500 ball for a further hearing next
Tuesday by Magistrate Pennock at the
Central Station today charged with at
tacking Mrs. Mary Miller In her store at
19th and Butler streets yesterday, and
then robbing the money drawer. Ho was
arrested by Policeman Toulson, of the
39th District, after he ran out of the store.
Mrs. Miller was unable to appear at the
hearing.
TRIES TO MAKE PORT
MACHINE GUNS SUBDUE BERLIN FOOD RIOTERS.,
LONDON, May 9. A Central Neva dispatch from Zurich reports a re
currence of food rlota in Berlin, in which machine guns wcro used to subdua
mobs of women. '
LAKE STEAMSHIP AND CREW LOST
SAULT STE. MATUE, Mich., May 9. The steamship' Kirby,Ala reported to
havo been lost In Just night's gale, with all 'on board. She carried a crew of
20 men.
QUEENSTOWN, May- 9. Amer
ican Consul Frost will leave for
Bantry Bay, Ireland, within a. few
hours to learn whether the liner
Cymric was warned by the German
submarine thnt torpedoed her, whether
she was armed and whether she at
tempted to escape. He will interview
the Cymric's officers.
STINGHOUSE STRIKE
ffiOKEN; MEN RETURN
V
wsands of Workers Answer
Company's Call Some
Still Out
MrrSBUFnqH, Pa.. May 9. The
oon of the gTeat Westlnghouse strike
broken this tnorntnir. when thousands
Wrkefs surged Into the plants, answer
Mae can or President K, M. Herr, who
"Jy refused to accede to tho de-
ot the. strikers and warned, tho
tliat any who failed to renort for
ttija morning would find It necessary
ftRfl apDlicatlon for re-emnlovment.
' Union Swlth and Hlunnl Onmnanv.
lfwisaYale, resumed operations this
". rueariy every department was
ae at 9 o'clocii.
a (employes of the Pittsburgh Meter
wpy, cast Pittsburgh, also returned
o,n
NUN KILLED BY FALL
IN ELEVATOR SHAFT
Sister M, Josepha "Victim of
Mistake at St. Joseph's Col
lege, Chestnut Hill
BIGDRYDOCKPLANIS
LOST; NAVY YARD MAY
GET 1000-FOOT BASIN
BRIDE-TO-BE WEEPS '
FOR MISSING YOUTH
I THE WEATHER
HMllight saving has always appealed to
j.fuiu?usiy, Because it js our chief
wifti M)ga i-rotectgr 0z the com-
"f irom unaue violence pf tho ele-
toeo that there is as much sun
' Possible dispensed by the weather
ft put why shouldn't wo get up at
Ml Slearn of dawn or, say., at about
i" tf wer a ? in the afternoon.
PH BWr Ua.CsfnG lau'M tin uhw uhmilrtn'
ftr If nnlw a VYIbitn n rAtlnr IDdJ
m MeaT " ""' v "'"' ""
FORECAST
gfr Philadelphia and vicinity
- una cooler tontgnti Wednesday
T? moderate west and northwest
Fw details page IS.
3fU
nuns
i -
f TQUND,
Said chassd
pbiri, M&iibubocd
t jwro. juiuru io
;i
LjU lor tlx, (01
ittan jj.ii
(! p
Sister 51. Josepha, teacher In Mount St.
Joseph's Collese, Cjity Line, Chestnut Hill,
was kllltd today when she fell down an
elevator shaft In the main building of ths
college. Her body plunged four stories
to tho concrete floor of the basement. Her
skull was fractured.
The- elevator Is of th'o old hydraulic
type Which Is operated by the passenger.
Sister Josepha was on the fourth floor and
started for the third floor to preside at a
class recitation. The ejevator was stalled
at the fifth floor, but It was evident that
Sister Josepha thought It was in position
at the fourh floor, for she opened the door
and, walked. Into the shaft, plunging for
ward. Several students say her fall and gave
an alarm. Dr. Robert II. .Boiling, medical
attendant at the college, 'happened, to be
Naval Affairs Committee De
cides Against Original Project
and Favors $3,500,000
for New Work
Young Man Disappears as Wed
ding Arrangements Are
Completed
In the building and was summoned. He
went Into the shaft and brought the body
of b'lsferrjosepha (o the first floor.
KlKtai. ffnaenha. wag 62 veara old and
fcj M) theatre at & la the of twrnoon and' fqC.JW.ny years had been s member of I committee decided that )t waJ"rt de
PUpr9? Europe's stealing day. I the community of nuns t UounSt. rsirable to run the dock fronTtne Ue.a-
josopns convent.
ASKS BETTER ELEVATOB LAWS
Regulation Should Be Stricter, Cor
oner Says
lore stringent laws -for the regulation
of elevators should be enacted by the
Legislature, Coroner Knight declared to
day at the Inquest Into, the death if Jus
tin Cernalk, 5 years old, 22X Poplar
Street, who died in St Mary's Hospital,
May t. from injuries received on an ele
vater In ha rcnnaylvinla3ugar Refinery.
"SbackainnQii trt wart
The Coroner's jury held that Jess Fos
iM", operator sf the, tlemlor, was blarne
Uff. TMtimony stwv.-eJ that CernaUi
44 Juwsl tt, th itvt wbijfr H av
ro o v ! Hi', oi lAe bUr,iLi, a r.-i, mc jwwfrt.
bstwtsu the elova-tor stm-i Uw ttevr, '
"BIG feNOUGH FOR SHIP3"
A 1700-foot drydock will not be built
at the Philadelphia Navy Yard This
decision was made today by the Naval
Affairs Committee of the House of Rep
jesentatives. which decided to appro
priate f3.50O.O0O for a 1000-foot drydock.
following a report of Admiral B. H. Har
ris, chief of Pocks and Yards. The bill
appropriates J600.000 to begin the work.
Tha hope of Philadelphia! that a 1700
foot dock would be authbrlied was
doomed to disappointment after Con
gressman Patrick JI. Kelley, of Michi
gan, one of the Republican members of
the committee, attacked the proposed ap
proprlatlon as a means of obtaining a
waterway from the back basin to the
Delaware, as well as getting the dock.
The proposed dock Improvements would
cost f6.000.000, and It was expected that
this sum would be arjDrourlated. Acting
pn the suggestion of Admiral Harris, the
war in tha hack basin as DroDOsed
Acordlng to Representative Kelley, R
was figured-b "kill two birds with one
stone' by -digging a waterway from the
back basin to the Delaware and excavat
4ng not only for the drydock. but for the
ship canal Only about 1000 feet of the
1700 would have been used for the dry
dock. "R has never been contended." said Mr.
Kelley In Washington today, "that a dry
dock of 1700 feet was necessary The
longest ships we will have to put In dry
dock are the battle cruisers, about to be,
authorUed by the new naval MR They
ere to be about S00 feet long. The bat
tleships are only Uttle njore than soo
feet. By abandoning the proposed cut
from the pack basin to ihe Delaware, w
baa been retonunended y, we pvy Pe-
uartreent, we wilt bow be able, to place tbft
tS8-tat drydock at W ifimm shoes j
I ?
II
WAVTEB C. CALLAHAN
With every arrangement completed for
his marriage next Saturday, in St. Mai
ach.ys RomaiCathqHo Church, Walter C.
Callahan, of 130.J North Percy street, has
been missing since last Monday.
Miss Margaret C Gallagher. 19 years
old; is broken-hearted over her fiance's
disappearance. Her home la. at 12 M
North' Darlen street.
"Jt Is Just terrible,' she sobbed today.
"I can't imagine what has happened to
Walter We .have, been sweethearts for
the last Ave years, I know something has
happened, faj lyro. He Mould never desert
mo, otherwise. He ntvi-r met any other
girls, en know h sauld not hivo eloped
Hfe ay ma rtw. We were anxious to
CswUu4 ea Vuf fM, OJuiiu tte
WASHINGTON, May S.
Tho direct statement that tho Whlto
Star liner Cymric, hit by a German tor
pedo off the Irish coast and later sunk
while making for port, was in tho service
of tho British Admiralty wns made In
cablegrams received from Consul" Frost,
at Qucenstown, today. Mr. Frost also
stated that tho "absence of warning is
Inferable."
.Five out of a crew of 107 perished In
the torpedoing of the Cymric, according
to tho cablegrams from Consul Frost.
IIs first message this rorenoon sauif
Cymric torpedoed 4 p. m. today,
138 miles west of Fasnet, Do not
think sunk. (Later message said
sunk.) Will supply details as they
arrive,
A second message said:
Cymric cleared New York April 2S
without passengers. Supposed m.ixed
cargo with horses. On Admiralty
service. Torpedo hit englneroom, ex
plosion killing Ave out of a crew of
107. Absence of warning Inferrable.
Ship still afloat, but prolsionally
abandoned. SurvRors will, probably
land Bantry, May p.
A third message, received this after.
noon, said:
Cymric sank 3 a. m.. crew atriv
Ing Bantry about noon.
The Dutch bteamshlp Grotlus bent the
following wireless message via the Va.
lentla, Ireland, station:
Cymric bank 3 this morning. AH
hands safe.
Officials said that the statement that
the, Cymric was on Admiralty service
f would prevent her sinking without warn
ing being made an International Incident.
It 13 likely, however, that Consul Frost
will send a complete report of the facts
when all of the survivors are landed.
Tho White Star freighter, of 13,000
tons, which was under orders from the
British Admiralty and carried a cargo of
war supplies estimated to be worth nearly
$1,000,000, was supposed to be under the
convoy of a warship because of ttfe Im
portance and value of her cargo.
R was reported as possible that the at
tack might have been made In the
presence of an English man of war.
The Cymric which sailed from New
York on April 39, was commanded by
Captain F. hi Readnell, and carried.
"among other articles, the following
ISrght cases of Ilrearms. 13 caseu of
guns. 80 cases of rifles, 820 cases of gun
coders. 4QQ reels of barbed wire, 11,049
cases of empty shells, six eases of bayo
nets, 331 bales of leather, 18 oases of au
tomobiles, $90 capes ot primer. 2163 cases
of forgings. 40 cases of aeroplane parts.
107 cases of copper tubes, 25'J casee ot
fuse, heads, 8600 cases of caitrldget, lu
br'cating oils and agriculture, machinery
Tht freighter evidently remained afloat
about 10 to 1 hours after the explosion
had occurred, which would have given time
for escape from the sinking vessel.
NEW YORK. May 9.-r-Tb.a White Star
Une today denied that the, liner Cymric
was, la the Admiralty service, though she
was withdrawn from use its a passenger
ship a, lew weeks ago and has been en
gaged a freighter
Thn Cymric was requisitioned by tXe
British. Oovernmeat a a lrooiship at th
SWITZERLAND TO DEMAND SUSSEX INDEMNITY
BERNE, May 9. Tho Swiss Government has decldfcd to demand' indemnities
from Germany for tho Swiss victims of tho Sussex. Two persons of Swiss
nationality were killed, whllo others loat all their baggage.
"AMERICAN LEGION" BARRED BY U. S. REQUEST
TORONTO, Ont., Jlnjj 9. Americana who have enlisted for army service In
Europo nro donlcd tha uso of the name "American Legion" under Instructions
received here from the Dominion Government authorities at Ottawa. This
action wns taken, it wns learned, in response to a request by the United States
Government to the British authorities, Tho instructions also forbid tho officers
nnd men of tho 97th Battalion and other Toronto units composed of Americans
to display tho title on uniforms or other parts of equipment. The 212th nnd 213th
Battalions at Winnipeg nnd Vancouver como under the order. V
PHILADELPHIA DETECTIVES WATCH SHORE BALLOIING
Fifteen city lin.lt detectives in chnrgo of Lieutenant of Detectives James
Scanlon aro In Atlantic City today to uld In the prevention of ballot frauds in the
stashoro jesort. Tho detecllvi-a will maintain n special lookout for Philadelphia
repeaters. Among the men detailed for tho work are Deteqtlves Frank O'Connor,
John Duey, Gieeby, Brown, Kinsley, McColloiigh, Lestrange, Dllllon, Hodge,
Farrell, "Walsh and Garr.
RARE OPERATION RESTORES MANS SPEECH
William Gllcan, n paralytic for four years,, today has recovered his power
of speech and tho use of his arms and legs as tho result of a rare operation
performed nt tho jQatretson Hospital, The operation Involved the removal of a
piece of bone as large as a quarter from tho skull. Gllcan becamo paralyzed
and lost his power of speech four years ago when he fell, .striking his head
against ix curb, Physicians expect he will bo able to return to work.
MORE U. S. MARINES LAND IN SAN DOMINGO
SANTO DOMINGO, May 9. In view of the serious situation here, American
marines, fully equipped, weio landed late yesterday on the outskirts of the "city.
The French armored cruiser Marselllalbe has arrived In port.
AUSTRALASIANS JOIN BRITISH IN TRENCHES
LONDON, May 9. Australian and New Zealand troops have arrived 1n.
France and have taken over a part of the front. This was announced Jn an
official statement last night. ; r
1313 CIVILIAN WAR VICTIMS IN EIGHT MONTHS
BERLJN, May 9, "Eight men, ten women and nine children, all civilians,
were killed In April In tho occupied portions of Belgium and Fiance, by artillery
and aeroplanes of the enemy," the Overseas News Agency says. "Twenty-three
men, 29 women and 23 children were wounded. The total number of victims
s:nce September, 1915, Is 1313." '
GREAT BRITAIN BUILDING ZEPPELINS
LONDON, May 7. That England 13 building airship3 of the Zeppelin typs
was disclosed in the Houke of Commons yesterday by Thomas James Macnamara,
Financial Secretary of the Admiralty, In reply to the question of a member. Mr,
Macnamara said that It was not In the public Interest to say' how many such
aircraft Great Britain possessed. j
' ' ' ' ' " "
VENIZELOS ELECTED BY BIG MAJORITY
ATHENS, Greece, May 9. Ex-Premier Venlwloa, who asji candidate for
the Chamber of Deputlea for MItylene, headed,, the poll by eTlarge majority In
Sunday's elections. Great enthusiasm was displayed by the 'people over hla
success. I
" " i i1 ' -
ENGLAND WILL CONqEAL HER LOSSES IN WAR
LONDON,, Sfay 9.-Preroier Asqultp announced In the House ot Commons
yesterday that the Government lias abandoned the usual practice of publishing
periodically the figures covering British casualties. He explained that the figures
hereafter would be withheld. fpr military reasons.
DAYLIGHT SAVING PLAN PLEASES COMMONS
LONDON, May 8. -Sir Ifenry NormWs motion in favor of daylight wrta
was adopted by the House of Commons, yesterday almost unanimously, the, jok
being JTO to 3. The discussion ires brief, the veiy Uttl objection mmml coining
from representative of Ijming interest Th GwOTunwit will introduce
WU tmhiediately, ajtd if. sm em? certain, u psy all stasis this wzmk, cWteJut
later tew4,to tnt taw, I nouqr Jn Uxbttn? atoa WH 1m U!oe.Wft year
HI
