'fev: : " ' s At 'if 'Cl '.. PV"'' U11S? CAHXD 5CCJUI tWATWNS ,
"JjVy V yWljV' V l JrB.waMh .4 1129.20 ,
. rVVff h'l''r Q V ' iJr-V-u'w N-aT- y&y&Jff N v Uol...,V. i.39 $127.80 "
;iNd ; ;"" : ' ' HONOLULU, HAWAII TERRITORY, TUESDAY, MAY 9, 1916-SEMI-WEEKLY. , , WHOlE 'NUMBEr 4ly
FLJiiTHL'CII
' .i4f:.-!".i( - . "
Report From Berlin Claims Thir
teen'Hundred French Prisoner
Were Captured In Assault
Upon Positions On Hill 304
paris statemInt FLATLY
CONTRADICTS ASSERTJON
Russians Force Turks To Aban
don First Line Positions In Pro
vince of : Erzingan, and Fall
Back On Second Defense Lines
(AswMtaM Ptm y rdral WlrtlMa.)
PABI8, Ma Flut eoBtradie
tion are eootained is the re
ports of the , fighting north of
Verdnn, as limed by-Berlin and the
French war office yetterday.
Berlin claiina te have taken more
proand including the entire iyetera of
trenches on the north elope of Hill 304,
aeeompenled by the eaptnre of forty
French office ra and 1280 priionere. The
French statement sayi that the Ger
mane were driven out of the communi
cating trenches which, it was admitted
they captured the day before, east of
Bill f04, and that a German assault on
HiU 7aa. repulsed v
xmtm. jeyy ; ' '
Thn Teutonie losses are said by the
French to "have been extremely
hetvy. 'JtJ&ine9 that the
Oermnne hsvey been - ousted front a
trench east of the hill, and thai east of
the If4-. ' series of .Bight engage
ments ended In the evaeustlon of a
trench south of: Hsudretnont, by the
Teutons.
The offfciRl statement concludes with
the sssertioa that the fighting now is
slmont as heavy at It was during
March, when the first big Verdun bat
tle was under way. Both official state
ments speak of the artillery fire as be
ing "furious."
French Attack Falls
In the other sectors the artillery at
tacks were vigorous, according to the
French reports, and the German war
Ministry announces tbe failure of a
French at tuck south of TliUumont,
where they are reported by Berlin to
have loot three hundred prisoners.
I-onJon formally announced the ar
rival in France of detachments of Au
stralian and New Zealand troops, but
gives no intimation of. whether they
will be sent to the front immediately
or not.
On the eastern fighting front Ger
many launched another nod greater of
fensive ecninst the Bussisn positions
soMh of Illukst, but were beaten back
with heavy loss, according to the offi
cial Petrograd statement. In Galicia
the Slavs have captured a large mine
crater, driving out the Austrian troons,
end capturing many prisoners. The
nirnting. was northwest of Tarnapol.
Turks Beaten Again '
In the Caucasus ths Bussians, under
the Grand Duke are forcing back the
Turks on many lines. YeetSrdsy it was
oflWially announced that the entire first
Ottoman line in the province of Grsin
gan has been withdrawn, to the second
line positions, and that ths Bussians
sre hotly pursuing the retreating
Turks. "
A receot official statement from Pe
trogrod on the fighting in the Black
Bea littoral ssys:
"Our troops bvs progressed still
further along the coast west of Trebi
sond. The enemy, who attempted to
check our advance, was everywhere
throws back. Fighting continues near
the Village of Benagirnagab Anhan
lnri, in the region of Aschksl.
"An enemy attempt to take the of
fensive in the district of Msmskhatun
was repulsed by our fire." (Aschkala
en Memakbatua are west of Krze
rum). v
FIFTEEN THOUSAND
ARMENIANS KILLED"
Fifteen thousand Ayneninns were
killed by Turks at Msmskhatun prior
to the evsi-uation of Krterum, accord
ing to a Ktntement prepared for The
Associated Press by Bil liard Hill, rep-
resenf:itiv of the American Committee
for Armenian nnd Syrian Relief of New
V... I. ... ; ( triis
:""'a in nnis, ttussian Csu-
" wore tnnn mac, many more, ex-
pe'leit rrom Lrxerum and surroundinaj
vuiiUjrs, nave aroppea out CI Signt snd
it i enmed thst most of them hsve
met s like fste. It is estimated tbst
them .ire J?(0,000 Armenian refugees in
the Cimessus. They "lire beginning to
rrturn to their homes In large number.
B.v Mi."' It ia thoi'Mit 50.000 will
( Ceutiuued on Pegs 3 )
i nac aubsecc
President Talks V
To Pacificists v
On Preparedness
Compulsory Military Training U
Contrary To Best Traditions
v of United States "
(AsssWste Frew by rssert! Wireless.) '
WASHINGTON, May In reeeiv
iog ; the ' committee appointed by ; the
American Union. Against Militarism,
which ealled upon him yesterday, Presi
dent Wilsoa declared that in his own
opinion, there is no danger of milita
rism In this country, and that there is
great difference between adequate pre
pared n ess Sad the peril thn anion has
been organised to combat.
He added that he horee thst after'
the end of the war in Europethe na
tions of the world will unite ia a inint
effort to keep the peace and establish a
common ponce force for tnat purpose.
In this connection the President amid
that it has become self-evident that thn
weaklings among the nstiona those
countries, without, military force ta
back up their demands will be in a
minor position when the time eomes fof
the big peaee conference. ."
' The helpless nations will be negli
gible quantifies in the peaeeeoafer-
ence, to establish the foundation of a
lasting world peace,." said Mr. Wilson.
in taking up the question of comou!-
sory training for .'American men aad
boys, the President declared that he
knows of nothing ia the historv of thn
country te show that such n plan is con
trary to the best traditions of the Unit
ed Ntetea.
Villista Outlaws Who
Raided
Will
Three Texas Towns
Not Be Chased
(AswecUU frees y j'edarsl Wlrsi'sss.)
WASHINGTON, , May 9. Contrary
to earlier reports, it is now regarded as
improbable that the United States will
sttempt to run down and capture the
Villa bandits who raided Glenn Springs,
Deemers and Boquillas, Friday night
and Saturday. Beports from the bor
der point out that there are not enough
troops available for such a chase.
Despatches from Marathon, Texas,
announced last night thst Private Ros
coe Tyres, reported missing, and O.
Q. Compton have arrived in Marathon,
accompanied by Sergeant Smyth. Earl
ier ia the-dsy Troope A and B of the
Eighth Cavalry left Marathon for
Glenn Springs, under the command of
Major Langhorne, and two additional
troops of the asms regiment will march
for the ssme town today.
Alpine deepatebea said that' plains
men, thoroughly iequainted with the
country into which the Mexican raid
era have 'fled, declare It is even more
inhospitable than that through . which
Oeneral Pershing led his men, and that
any attempt to send n pursuing column
after the raiders would involve enorm
ous difficulties..
Reports have reached Alpine that
the bandits carried Jesse Deemers snd
a storekeeper's clerk from Boquillas
serous ths border and here murdered
the two Amercans, ,
APACHE SCOUTS FIGHT WELL
lAsseeiates rrsss ny rsderal WltslesM
HEADQUARTERS OF AMERICAN
ARMY IN THE FIELD, Msy . The
Apache Indian scouts detailed with the
force of the Eleventh Cavalry that
made the dashing and brilliant attack
upon ths Villa bandits at Ojos-Azules,
rode at the head of the troopers ia the
charge on the surprised Mexicans, and
with their revolvers did some splendid
shooting. Their msrksmanship wss su
jerb, say the men who were with Colo
ael Dodd.
CONFERENCE STILL IN SESSION
(Asseda4 Frsss sy fsdsral Wtralsss.)
IX, PASO, Msy 9. The conference
between Generals Scott, Funston snd
Obregon yesterday failed to reach any
definite agreement, and it was announc
ed thst another meeting probably mill
ue -neia loaay. me second Villa raid
fa
I
'
discussed st ths conference.
RR1T1IW IC Dllll mmr
ZEPPELIN-TYPE AIRSHIPS
(Associates' Prsas by rsdsrsl Wlrslsss.)
LONDON, May 9,Thnt Orest Brit
ain is taking a lesson out of the Oer
msn book, snd is eonstrurtisg a num
her of aerial warships pstterned after
the Zepplins, was formally announced
iu the house 6'rwummons yesterday.
Raids
PORTUGUESE Crowd Assembled In Ru lfentr.1. De L'Avenue De La Liberie, Lisbon. I
isrr--
sn
.'J.V
J
TJ ERMAN Prisoners Captured By French .During Fighting
0V. DaUy Ratlon In Concentration Camp In Rear of Battloline
WHITE-STAR LINER
CYMRIC
TORPEDOED
Big Ship Limps Into Queenstown
and Japanese Ship Also
Is Attacked
(Aaseolatsd rrsss by radsral Wlrslsss.)
LONDON, May . The White Star
liner Cymrie was torpedoed without
warning in the war cone yesterday,
and is now reported making her way,
although badly crippled, into Queens-
Ltmn Tkk u.lia. .1 . 1
ed that the steamer was sinking, pes-1
patches from New York reported that
White Star line officials there bed an
nounced that the steamer was loaded
with munitions of wsr. She carried no
passengers nd so fsr as Is known here,
had no Americans on board. Her crew
totals one hundred.
The Cymrid wss vessel of 13,096
tons gross, 8308 net, (585 feet long, 64.3
beam aud 37.9 deep, much the size of
the Msnohuria. bhe wss built in 1898
by Uarlaftd A Wolft st Belfast. She
was a our-af.r, these decker, equip
ped wjth -wireless anj ,'submsrine sig
nsls, and has two four-cylinder,
druple.-espsnsion engines. She
qua
wss twin ursw. V"
JAPANESE SHIP ATTACKED
AttaV.k- has bjevn made on the Nippon
Yusen. KsUha steamer Toyama Maru
ly a Qernian submarine but it faild,
uncording to advices to Jsnsnese mws
papers of Honolulu Yesterday morniue.
She wss from Yokohama, February 24,
for London, sailing from Cape Tuwu
April 9. .
While In the Bay of Biscay, west
roast of Spain, a German submarine
discharged a torpedo st the Tovama
Msru, but missed. Captain Marhilda
ordered full ,sned snd escaped, uni
arrived at London yesterday.
WW Conform To
-"r-Mi,,."f"
' ' -
S:,, :XV
. , . ,
:Llzv" :
'I ! . t :'jl-
! 4 V. 1
THREE WAR PLOTTERS ARE CONVICTED
TRIAL IMPLICATES GERMAN-AMERICANS
(Associatsd Prsss by Federal Wireless.)
NtW YORK, May 9 Robert Fay,
a captain in the German army;
Walter Sboltz, his brother-in-law-and
Paul Daeche, were found guilty ia
the federal court here yesterday of a
conspiracy to destroy xhips carrying
munitions to the Allies, by means of
bombs sttached to the propellors of the
steamers.
According to evidence introduced at
the trial of the accused last mQnth, the
German government offered the conspi
rators 4500,000 apiece for each steam
er besring munitions sunk' by' the ef
forts of ths bomb plotters.
Other evidence went to show- that
prominent German-Americans were con
nected with the plot. It was stated
that Max Breitung, nephew of E, W.
Breituog, the Wisconsin multi-millionaire
and the purchaser of. ths steamer
Ti
(AtsooUUd Frsss by Fsdsral Wireless.)
MANTO DOMINGO. Hsiti, May
Despite he resignation of President
.liinminez, in an effort to bring about
peace In the republic, conditions e
cHine. so disturbed here yesterdsy thst
the American warships landed mariujs
fully equipped with landing pieces.
The marines were sent Ints) camp on
the outskirts of the city, where they
would be ready at a moment's notice,
but would not excite the animosity, of
the natives.
The French cruisers Marseillaise
rame into the harbor yenterdsy, sddinif
to the warships ready to take action, if
neeossury, in the protection of foreign
residents.
0 DOMINGO
emn jfieage
After War Break With Germany
, 1 -
.e-.
Ai r
- .l
Around Verdun, Drawing Their'l
While Conflict.Rages In Distance
. : - -
' ."""-'V.-. .-i' t
Dacia. afterwards captured by the
French, nns involved in the plot. Brei
tuny, it ens snid by witnesses, s
used bh the man who, by his connec
ting, was sble to point out to th
otlii i mcinbera of the conspiracy the
vessels which were to be loaded with
munitions for the Allies.
Carl l.uderits, German consul at Bal
timore, was indicted by a federal grand
jury, charged with aiding the German
" war plotter," Horst von der GolU.
Wolfe von lgel, former attache of the
German embassy in Washington, wss
reindicted for conspiracy to defraud ths
United States in shipping oils te tier
many entered falsely in the manifests
as fertilizer.
Consul l.uderits was named is ths
confessions of the German ageut, eon
der Goltz, in connection with various
shipping and bomb plots.
FEW
LEADERS PUT TO DEATH
(Aiwcitltd Frsss by rt4sral Wireless.)
LONDON, Msy 9.Four more lesd
era (if the Irish revolt have been eourt
uisrtiuled and executed, according to
uu official statement issued last night.
'liny were Cornelius Colbert, Ed
mund Kent, Michael Mallou and J. J.
lieuHton.
Grent Britain yesterday released
.lamed M. Sullivan, former United Sta
tes minister to Santo Domingo, who
was arrestod in Dublin charged with
connection with the Sinn Fein rebel
lion. A despatch from Sullivan to the
American embassy here, was the firs
Hiiiioiiin cment of his release.
International Law
REPLY OF PRESIDENT
TO BERLIN WOTE HAS
RING OF FINAL WORD
Washington Will Enter Into No Agreement
Nor Recognize Any Provisions With Refer
ence To Submarine Regulation Dependent
Upon Any Issue of Blockade By Entente
KAISER MUST REGARD
RIGHTS OF AMERICANS
' .: ' v, , ' " '
w , ? .,
Safety To Lives and Property 0q High Seas
Cannot In Slightest Degree, Be Contingent
Upon onduct of Another Government Af
fecting Rights of Neutrals Who Are At Sea;
TERMS
ARE
i
mnuriWwTay -THw"Untted Statetceeptt the solemn
pledgd 6f the Girmdit nbvernraent that hereafter It will con.'.
ouct its su&marlne warfan along the ones of international law, as
demanded by the United states, but it will enter into no agreement .
nor recognize ay provision whereby the observation of interna
tional law on the part of Germany is dependent upon any possible 1
action to be taken by the United States for the abrogation of any
of the measures taken by Great Britain in her blockade policy.1
This is the substance of the American reply to the German note
of May 4, which was cabled to Berlin yesterday and made public
last night. ; . ;
Reply of President Is Pointed
The reply of President Wilson was short and to the poiqt, leav
ing no room for doubt as to the American stand, whch is identical
with that taken in the American demands made upon Berlin on
April 18. v
The President 1ft his reply, informed the German government
that he has carefully considered the German note of May 4, es
pecially those portions which indicate the purpose of the German
government to do its Utmost to confine the future operations of the
war to the fighting forces of the belligerents and those which express
the determination of the imperial government to impose upon its'
submarine commanders limitations of action to those recognised by
international law...
Friendship Governs Policy
The United States, says the President, has been guided in its
attitude towards Germany and restrained in its utterances by mo
tives of friendship, which have directed the American efforts to effect
an amicable settlement of the differences which have arisen.
"In accepting the imperial government's declaration ol an aban
donment of the policy Which had seriously menaced the relations of
the two governments, the United States," the note states, "will rely
upon the scrupulous execution henceforth of the now altered 'policy
of the imperial government
No Contingency Acceptable
"The United States takes for granted that Germany does not
intend to imply thatlhe new policy of Germany is contingent upon
the outcome of any negotiations which may be carried on between
the United States and any other country, notwithstanding "certain
passages contained in the note of the Imperial government which
might appear to be susceptible of that construction." ' ,
To make this point absolutely definite, the American note says
further :
Action of Others No Excuse
"In order to avoid any possible misunderstanding, the United
States hereby notifies the imperial government that this govern
ment cannot entertain, much less discuss, any suggestion that
Germany's respect lor the rights of American citizens on the high
seas should, in the slightest degree, be contingent upon the con
duct of any other government affectina the riant of neutrals or of
non-combatants.
"The responsibility in such matters is single and not ioint abso
lute and not relative."
MANDATORY
v
