THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
10 PAGES
Tnvi?n b?' TUESl)AY MOHNINU, MAY 9, 191G
30 PAGES
VOL. XXVI., NO. 355
Germany's Promise To Quit
Former Submarine Policy
Accepted By United States
s . . i i
AMERICA NOW RELIES
UPON THE SCRUPULOUS
EXECUTION OF POLICY
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire) .
-WASHINGTON, May 8. A note cabled by Secre
tary Lansing to Ambassador Gerard today for delivery
to the. Berlin foreign office informs the German gov
ernment that the United States accepts its "declaration
of abandonment" of its former submarine policy and now
relies upon a scrupulous execution of the altered policy
to remove the principal danger of an interruption of the
good relations existing between the two count rie.
With this acceptance is coupled a formal notice to
Germanv that the United States cannot for a moment
entertain, much less discuss, a suggestion that respect j
by German naval authorities of the rights of citizens of
the. United States on the high seas should in the slightest
degree be made contingent upon the conduct of any oth
er government affecting the rights of neutrals and non
combatants. This is in reply to the concluding state
ment in the last German note to the effect that while
submarine commanders had been ordered to sink no
peaceful freight or passenger carrying .ships without
warning or without safety for passengers and crew, the
German government would reserve itself complete liber
ty of decision unless the United States was successful in
its efforts to break the British blockade.
Secretary Lansing issued a statement tonight saying
that the greater part of Germany's answer to the de
"mand of the United States was devoted to matters which
the American government could not discuss with the
Berlin government, but he considered Germany had
"yielded to our representations," and that "we can have
no reason to quarrel with her" so long as the altered
policy is lived up to.
' FIRE BOMBS PLOTTERS i
ARE FOUND GUILTY.
I I
j NEW YORK. May 8. The jury
whic h for ten days heard test!-
i mony at the trial of Kobert Kay.
former lieutenant in the German
arm; Walter Scholz and Paul
Dace-he, charged with conspiracy I
I to destroy munitions ships through
bornl) contrivances returned a ver- ;
i diet ot guilty against all the de- j
j fendants. The jury deliberated
! on the case for five hours and
reaching a verdict asked for clem-
! ency in behalf of Duet-he. who,
I according to his own statements
I and those- of Fay und Scholz. was
j an employe of .Fuv and knew little j
j of the tietails of the "fire ltombs"
j plots. I
- -
ENTIRE SM
DFTRENCHES IN
GERMAN HANDS
IHEiENT
IN CONFERENCE
ON THE RIDER
Generals Scott and Funston
and General Obregon, Dis
cuss Mexican Situation
But Fail to Reach Any
Definite Agreement
HAMPERED BY LACK OF MEN
PURSUIT OF VILLISTAS DOES
(OT PROCEED BELOW BORDER
Following is the text of the note
cabled today by Secretary Lansing to
, Ambassador Gerard at Berlin with In
structions to deliver it to the German
minister of foreign affairs:
"The note, of the imperial German
government under date of May 4, lUltf,
has received careful consideration by
the government of the I'nited States.
It is especially noted as indicating the
purpose of the Imperial German gov
ernment to the future, that it 'is pre-
tifies the imperial German govern
ment that it cannot for a moment en
tertain much less discuss a suggestion
! thai respect by the German naval uu-
. tborities for the rights of citizens of
Ithe I'nited States ppon the high seus
should in any way or in t he slightest
degree be made contingent upon the
I conduct of any other government af
i fecting the rights of neutrals and non
combatants. Responsibility in such
pared to do its utmost to confine the ( matters is single, not Joint; absolutely
operation of the war for the rest of i not relative."
its duration to the fighting forces of J
the belligerents' and that it is deter-
mined to impose upon all its com- .
manders at sea the limitations of the
recognized rules of international law'
upon which the government of the'
United States has insisted.
"Throughout the mortthB which have :
elapsed since the imperial govern- !
ment announced on February -l, 1915,
its submarine policy, now happily '
abandoned, the government of the ,
I'nited States has been constantly
guided and restrained by motives of
friendship in its patient efforts to
Mr. Lansing's statement made pub-lit-
after the note was on its way to
Berlin, follows:
"The greater part of the German
answer is devoted to matters which
this government cannot discuss with
the German government. The only
questions of right which can be dis
cussed with that government are those
arising out of its action or out of our
own und in no event those questions
which are the subject of diplomatic ex
changes between, the I'nited States
and any other country.
"The essence .of the answer is that
bring to an amicable settlement the ( Germany yields to our representations
critical questions arising from that with .regard to the rights of mercliant
policy. Accepting tile imperial gov- j ships and non-combatants on the high
ernment's declaration of its abandon- j seas, and engages to observe the recog
ment of the policy which has so seri- j nized rules of international law gov
ously menaced the good relations be- ; erning naval warfare in using her
tween the two countries, the govern- ' submarines against merchant ships,
ment of the I'nited States will rely i s long as she lives up to this altered
upon a scrupulous execution hence- policy we can have no reason to quar-
rorth or the now altered policy of the
imperial government such as will re- i
move the principal danger to an in- j
terruption of the good relations exist- i
inir between theM'nlted States nd 1
Germany.
' "The government of the United
States feels it necessary to state that
It takes it for granted that the imperial
German government does not intend
to imply that the maintenance of its
newly announced policy is in any way
contingent upon the course or result
of diplomatic negotiations between
the government of the United States
and any other belligerent government,
notwithstanding the fact that Certain
passages in the imperial government's
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
An entire system of trenches on
the northern slope .if Hill I!04, north
west of Verdun, has been captured
by the Germans, according to Ber
lin and the French in the fighting
suffered extraordinarily heavy cas
ualties. In ad. lit. en forty officers
and 1,1'sii soldiers were taken pris
oner. I'aris reports that to the ejast of
the Hill the Germans were driven
irotn a communicating trench which
they previously had penetrated, and
to the west of the hill a German as
sault against French positions at
Hill No. was put down by the
French fire.
A heavy bombardment is . In pro
gress against the Avocourt wood arTd
the entire region of Hill 304; while
to the east of Verdun and in the
Woevre the artillery activity
tinues vigorously. Around the Thlau-
mont farm, north of Verdun, a
French attack broke down and 3ou
mer were taken prisoners.
The Germans on the Russian front
launched an offensive to the south
.if Illu!;st against the Bussians. but
met with no success. Mine lighting
an I bombardments continue at var
iouc .nts along this line. In Gal
icia tQ the northwest of Tarnopol,
the Bussians captured a mine crater
In the lighting In Asia minor the
Bussians have compelled the Turks
to withdraw from their entire first
line trencher, in the region of Kr
zingsn.
Attacks by she Austrians against
the Italians in the Marmolada, l-'am-zarego,
and other sectors were re
pulsed. The bombardment in the
Adamello region continues. Here the
Italians have destroyed an Austrian
defense work on Col Topete.
The Turkish cruiser Breslau Is re
ported by 1'etrograd to have bom
barded L'upatorin, in the Crimea. The
town is described as an unfortified
health station, i
(Continued on Page Three)
Germans Capture Trenches
RKIU.IN. May S. (By wireless to
Sayvillel In the recent fighting on
the Verdun front, the Germans cap
tured an entire system of trenches
on the northern slope of Hill 30 4,
'(Continued on Page Five I
WHITE STAR ONER CYMRIC IS
. TORPEDOED S01EIEBE Iff SEfl
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, May 8. The 13,000 ton
White Star Liner Cymric which for
some time has been engaged in
the White Star company at Liverpool
is that the steamer was torpedoed
about noon today.
The White Star company from re
ports it has reoeived. believes t lie
pear to be susceptible of that con- by a German submarine, according toi(-ymric waM torpedoed about noon
note of the fourth instant might ap-. freight service, has .been torpedoed
structlon. In order, however, to avoid advices received herer One report
any possible misunderstanding the 'says that the Cymrk: was attacked in
government of the United States no- the Atlantic, and the information of
Four More Germans Are
Indicted In U. S. Court
Republican A. P. Leased Wire . ' .
NEW YORK, May 8. Carl A. iLue
reritz, German consul' at Baltimore,
Md., was Indicted by the federal grand
jury here today, charged with procur
ing a false passport for Ilorst von Der
Goltz, confessed spy. Another indict
ment was handed dowrt charging Wolfe
von Igel, former secrtary of Captain
Franz yon Papen, recalled German mil
itary attache, DK Walter 1). Scheele,
already indicted In the alleged "fire
bomb" plot, and Gustav Steinberg, al
leged aide of Franz von Rintclen, Ger
man agent, with consipring to falsify
a ship's manifest In sending a cargo of
lubercatlng oil to Germany.
The Indictment against Consul Lue
reritz charges that he obtained a pass
port for von Der Goltz, in the name of
Bridgman Taylor. from the secretary
of state on August 24, 19M, and that on
October 2 of the same year the pass
port was vized by the Italian consul
general here. On the following day
von Der Goltz sailed for Geona, Italy
on board the Italian liner Duca
D'osta. ' ,
According to federal officials the new
Indictment against Wolf von Igel and
Dr. Scheele was made possible by the
papers seized in the former office of
the recalled military attache, von Pa
pen, at be time of von Igt-l's arrest.
They alleged that papers found among
von Igel's effects show that the freight
charged for, the shipment of oil were
paid by von Igel while acting secrtary
to von I'apen.
today. The steamer carried no pass
engers.
The Exchange Telegraph company
understands that the Cymric
torpedoed by a German submarine in
the Atlantic.
The Cymric left New York, April
29 with an enormmis cargo of war
munitions. As she usually makes the
voyago from New York to Liverpool
in 10 days, she was, therefore, within
a day or two of her destination. It
is considered probable, in the ah
sence of definite details, that the dis
aster to the- Cymric occurred off the
west coast of Ireland, but whether
on the northerly or southerly route
cannot be stated.
The fate of the ship is not yet
known, although fln early message
received In London reported that the
Cymric was sinking. The crew
aboard numbered about 100 men but
the steamer carried no passengers.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL l'ASO Tex. Mav 8. Today's
conierence between Generals Scott
and Funston arid General obre;oii,
.Mcxicnn minister of war, and Juan
N. Amador, sub-secretary of foreign
affairs ended late this afternoon with
out an ugrement having been reached.
It was indicated, however, thai it
was to t lie effect an understanding
regarding the status of the American
troops in Mexico had not been aban
doned and that another conference
we.ulei be held.
Today's melting took place in Gen
eral Scott's private car on the Ameri
can i-iiie. When or where the next
meeting would be held was not dis
closed.
When General Obrepon returned to
Juurez in his tinning car, lie was
asked:
"Is tin conference ended .'"
He smiled, shrugged his shoulders
and replied:
'It is' just beginning."
A. J. McOuutters. president of the
Alvtirado Mining and Smelting com
pany, was again present at the meet
ing of tiie American and Mexican rep-
roenlativus. Neither he nor any
ine outers wotiiu uiscuss wnac uau
taker Hae-e.
In F.l Paso tonight the feeling grew
that the situation ""had taken -on added
gravity following the bandit raid in
the 1 Ig Bend district. It was reported
on good authority that most of to
day's conference had to do with the
nid and i he steps to be taken to
disperse bandit groups in northern Coa
hivla New demands were presented
to the Mexican representatives it was
said, which would include the roopira-
tion'of the Mexican and American
troc.ps in districts not hitherto touch
ed in the regulations.
Whatever the reply of the Mexican
minister of war it was evident tnai
he wi-died to gum more time. i ne
conference beVau at 4:T.r. p. m. and
ended just an hour and fifteen
minutes. Tonight more telegraphic
ntiversatlons between General obre
gon and General Carranza a: the
provisional capital took place.
The conferees could be seen through
the windows or General coii s pn
nt car throughout the meeting- Gen
eral llife-gotl Stimgc.e'1 ins Mi'fMiuri.i
now and then and shook his head.
General Scott ami Funston were de
termined ;md at times spake animatedly.
It was sub-secretary Amador, who,
following the contere nee. nnnounceii
that no 0c Kinn had been reached and
that another meeting probably would
hn held. General ( ibr gon got in hi-:
machine without comment.
Much interest was taken tonight in
word reaching here from Marathon
Hoarding a story told bv a minister
name unknown, who reached there
from an automobile tour through the
district rallied last Friday night
Aeeordim- to the story told by this
insn, the dean nouy oi one oi me imm
cits was found near Glenn Springs.
No further report came to General
Funston here from the raided district
the Uii' Bend country. The only
of the da- was the arrival oi
two troops or cavalry nom run
Clarke and two from F.1 Paso at Mara
thon where they siarieu suumwuiu
a !iri'i mile march.
General Funston refused to indicate
whether a second expeditionary ion e
is to go into Mexico near lioquiii.iw.
He siid that circumstances made it
impossible for him to speak.
Consii'erable significance was piae-
. . . . . . . ..!.... ..-.L-o.l
e! In Ills reply 10 a tiuei-nun
him.
He was asked if a report from
Washington "that troops may have al
ready crossed over was true.
He replied that he believed they had
'not yet" gone over.
This Afternoon's conference came at
the end of a day of rumors and spec
ulations which reached their apex lr.
the report that a split in relations be
tweer the I'nited States and Mexico
w;fs about to occur because General
Obregon was unable to command the
support of various Mexican generals
for the tentative agreement.
Another story which went the
rounds to the effect that at the Sun
day meeting in. the immigration' sta-.
was tion, the American ceinierees iimi not
ified the Mexican minister eri war
that the United states nau uemvu
the limit. of its patience and insisted
. A,.f,t-,1
on a specuy uiiueisiauoin.
ing to this story General Obregon was
told that th" American government
would consent to no further conces
slons and the proposed protocol would
h-.ve to be signed as drawn up.
The liarticinants in the conierence
refused absolutely to discuss what
Carranza And Advisers In
Conference All Of Sunday
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY, May 8. General
Carranza and his official advisors were
in conference during all of Sunday
night and until 3 o'clock Monday morn
ing discussing the campaign.- against
the border raids, which it is believed
have been inaugurated to be prose
cuted systematically by enemie s of the
Carranza. government, now residing in
the United States. Telegrams to the
foreign office today said that plots
have become known to the secret
agents of the Mexican government and
thai the names of all the leaders have
been obtained.
According to these messages San An
tonio, Tex., is being used as headquar
ters for the movement and former
prominent members or the convention
government are directing it. The
avowe-il intention of these men it is de
eiared, is to cause serious difference
between Mexico and the United States.
The newspapers this morning print
on the ir first pages a story of the re
cent border raids and characterized the
participants in them as enemies of
both nations. The hope is expressed
editorially that the American people
will see through the schemes and that
public opinion will not condemn Mex
ico wetrngly.
All Available Troops Are
Iking Rushed Into Big
Bend Country, But These
Confine Operations to
River Scouting
MISSING TROOPER
IS ACCOUNTED FOR
E COOPERATION II THE
PORSDIT Of M l DIBITS
in
news
ILL FOLOW
Private Roscoe Tyree and
- O. G. Compton Arrive At
Marathon Aboard Motor
Car from Glenn Springs
With Sergeant Smyth
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MARATHON, Tex., May 8. Private
Roscoe Tyree and O. G. Compton ar
rived here late this afternoon in com
pany with Sergeant Smyth. They were
brought here on a motor car from Glenn
had been felt for these? two
men as Tyree disappeared after the
fight between the bandits and the pa
trol at Glenn Springs and Compton had
been reported taken into Mexico by the
marauders. It is believed now that the
man reported kidnapped with John
Demeers, from below Boquillas was
named Coy.
Two troops of American cavalry
swung southward this afternoon into
the Big Bend country moving on to
Glenn Springs, where three soldiers lost
tHepuuncan A. P. Leased WlreJ ,,oU suggesting the withdrawal of the i-Yve. and a little boy was shot to
WASHINGTON. May s.-Adm.ms- American expedition. It was stated , deatn in tho raid by Villita bandits
trath.n officials are hopetul that et- uih,.iiiv couay mat the agreement I p.jHav ninht. The on. hundred and
fee-Uve cooperatifn between American suggested by General Carranza in the ; more cavalrymen belonged to troops A
and Me-xican troops to exterminate urst exchange of notes for a recipro- ad B of the Eighth cavalry under the
the bands of Mexican outlaws which . ci.l right to cross the border on any j command of Major George T. Lang-
raide-d Glenn Springs, Texas, last in- recuirence oi ine omnibus raid, still home. Two troops of the Fourteenth
elav- night will follow the conclusion was assumed to be in force. Only . cavalry commanded by Colonel F. W.
of the conference at F.l Paso between the status of the present expedition Sibley from Fort Clark go forward to
Cenerals Scott and obregon. In the is involved, it was said, in the present morrow. A strict censorship is en-
meanlime, though, at the war and diplomatic situation anil in the Scott-! forced to screen the troop movements
st;'te departments, it was stated of- obregon military discussion at El ' in the field in the field campaign in
ficially that General Funston has full 1'aso. The- right to pursue outlaws whatever form" it takes either in the
authority to send his troops across who engaged in subsequent raics was j pursuit of the Villista brigand:, or in
the Isnder on any hot trail. ' , clearly stated in the original "proposal ; n0 protection of border from further
Secretary l':'ker conferred witii from Carranza and if Punston s men
I ri'sident Wilson this evening, but he go across ir. pursuing the Glenn
1 later there hail bi-en no develop-' Springs raiders, they will be covered
nioiits in the situation. He declined by that agreement, regardless of the
to dis -'.iss what steps, hael been taKen status oi General rershing s expedi-
l-v General Kutiston or what re-eom-1 tion.
inendntions be had made. I Secretary I.ansinir declined la sav
officials would not comment on what steps were being taken to in-
hot, lor advic-s, saying i, c-iier.il t un-. v,,st ;e-,ie intimations that tho
attacks.
Captain Caspar Cole, with twenty
three men of troop A is now scouting
the river country where the bandits
recrossed the Rio Grande in their flight
after the attacks on Glenn Springs and
Boquillas. His observation and re
ports of the bandit movements are to
be sent to Major General Funston that
mspi-j . u t t..i t: u. j i
t..i, Ci-tu i-eoi.'iti.i l- orio.,1 tlmt f.l! . : r .1. , t r . '
- '-" j ...p.... ...... ;'. u ior ine e 011 111 jus or ine eiienn
forces l.f. str.-i Rtheneil. The question springs raid, had come frcm the,
1 f 1 ailing out a portion of the national
guaro is 1101 iiit'ie-r 111111,011:111 con-nny a nnu ncement.
set'-rrition, however, and its tne omyiVOili,j serve- to block
ither means of adding materially to
the border guard would hi' to employ
coast artilliiv troops as Infantry 'or
th.it purpo'i-. there is m'thing to in
dicate that General Funston's force
is to 1-e incre-ase-d.
Senator llor.ih issued a state-ment
tonight urgimr that additional troops
be oruered to the border and any
man -r party in Mexico which sought
to embarrass the tasK of proti-ctmg
Aine-rican interests be treated as ene
mies of tin- c untry. "It must be ap- ,V ,:,;' i .,, ', K1 , punitive expedition possible because of
pare nt to any one at all familiar with , , , ... f, ,- i ,ne lacK 0T cavalrymen. The last body
of villiastas re-crossed the Rio Grance
Saturday morning and they are now
oped. Many unconfirmed reports are
1 current tonight at Boauillas that bod-
Ame rican sMe of the border. To make ; jes of bandits are operating in numbers
ne f,:iiu, -niere-iy on tne Mexican side.
The number of cavalrymen under
present orders to proceed toward the
river, indicates that no effort will be
made to pursue the bandits into Mexico
unless they are observed near the bor
der. In that event a chase into Mexi
can territory may be attempted that
might carry the American forces fifty
or more miles into Coahuila. Lack of
transportation and properly defended
the investigators. '
The Washington government was'
stiil without official notificatie n to-
night as to Carranza's attitude t J-:
ward the Scott-f ibregon plan. . t was1
ssunied th.it the fact that mother
inference between the two officers,
was held today, however, that he hal
accepted Ihe preipeisals. A report'
onclusmn of the conference, al-i""" ?t comnnun cation preclude any
th nigh tho difference in time made it
improbable that the text of the agree-
' etxended pursuit into Mexico and mil-
! itary men here do not think another
heforei tomorrow nflnninnn
the situation," said the senator, "that
e-arran.a cannot restore order in-Mex- ftury Lansing forwarde.l rep
ico: he .annot establish a govern- rPfif"'ations o Caranza through Spe-
(Continttcd on Tune Rvel
-n
SENATE
PASSES BANKHEAD
GOOD ROADS BILL
Is Still Afloat
QUEEN'STOWN, (Via London)
The Cymric wan torpedoed af four
o'e'lock Monday afternoon. Now it is
reported that She is still afloat and
is proceeding to an Irish port.
I WASHINGTON, May 8. The
senate today passed without a rec-
I ord vote the Hank head gooel roads
Mil to snend $xr..000.000 in con- I
struction of post roars, contingent
I on an eepial expenunure oy .cne
states. Appropriation for $10,-
000,000 for roads in national for-
ests is Included. It differs from
the house mil. i
U
he
cial
last
nient and what concerns us most
c.innoi lirotct the heinlor."
ti. ci.,,,,, i:,.,.i I,! i,., -e, ni springs ram was conrirmea.
to inaUe clear the attitude of thii
state elepartmcnt regarding Cai ranza's
Agent Rogers at Mexico City
night when hews of the Glenn
The de
facto government was notified of the
(Continued on Page Three)
1
JOINT EFFORT TO KEEP PEACE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 8. Hope that
at the end of the present war the na
tions of the world would undertake a
joint effort to keep the peace, backed
by a common police force, was ex
presseel by President Wilsos today in
:n interview with a committee of the
American union ugainst militarism
which called to protest against bin i
preparedness program and udvise him
thut they had found a fear of mili- j
tarisni in the country west of the AJ-leghenies.
The president told his callers that a
helpless nation would be negligible in
a conference to establish the founda
tions for peace. lie said there was a
difference between preparedness and
militarism, that-the country was in no
('anger of (he latter, and in responso
to a question, declared that compul
sory military training was not con
trary to American tradition.
The committee insisted that on ac
count of his office the president most
freeiuently addressed audiences from
the upper classes and that the re
sponse he received upon the proposal
to Increase the military were mislead
ing. him to tlic true sentiment of the
country.
The committee was headed by Hiss
Lillian I). W'uld, Rabbi Stephen S.
Wise and Amos R. R Pinchot, all of
New York City; A. A. Uerle of Cam
bridge, Mass., and John A. McSparran,
legislative chairman of the National
Grange, who presented a memorial
probably nearly forty miles south of
the river.
"It would take a brigade of at least
three thousand men to form an expe
dition into Mexico to effectively cope
with the situation," said an army offi
cer here today just before the troops
moved toward Glenn Springs. "The
four troops of cavalry that are going
in can do little more than offer pro
tection to the border and there are no
more troops of cavalrymen that we can
draw upon.
"There is now I believe, a regiment
of cavalry, the Second, at Fort Ethan
Allen, Vermont, but that is the only
cavalry available. All other cavalry
troops are on duty at other points
along the border and in the main ex
pedition in Chihuahua. We simply have
not- the men for another punitive expedition.
You can't chase mounted bandits
setting forth that while the union did
not stand against sane or reasonable ;
preparedness nor for peace at any j
price, it was convinced that the big !
army and navy programs were a with infantrymen, they can't be used
menace to democracy. The president 1 'or the purpose. If we see any Villistas
was informed that these views had ; rear the river, I imagine we will get
been voiced in ten great cities of the i orders to go after them, but I don't
middle west, and had met with en- I know positively. But I do know we
thusiastic endorsement.
When the spokesman of the 'dele
gation had supplemented their
memorial by brief speeches the presi
dent replied, and for an hour listened
to and answered their questions.
can't go far after them with but four
troops of cavalry."
It was learned here today that after
the raid on Glenn Springs the bandits
split their forces into two bodies, one
(Continued on Page Three)
Villista Bandits Are Active
In Guadalajara Region
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i day, are aboard the Pacific Mail
MANZAMLLO. Mexico, May 8. I Steamer Newport, which is due hero
(By Radio to San Diego.) Mexican I on May 10., It is thought many other
banelits believed to be followers of j American refugees, either here or en
Villa have been active near Colima, j route from tho interior will take pas
and in the Guadalajara region, accord- : sage for San Francisco on the New
ing to stories told by Americans who j port.
leached here from the scene of the ; The C!nco Minas and Ampira gold
depredations. Colifha. it wait stated, j mines and many other large Ameri
wh.s made the object of attacks twice I can owned mines are in the Colima
during the last three weeks. (districts, said to be harrassed by the
A train on the National railway bandits,
near Colima was held un and robbed ; Idanzanillo is in a normal condition
by the bandits, it was said. land quiet also was reported from
Thirty Americans, it was learned to- Gijaymas, Topolobampo and Mazatlan.
