M-
1 fS3
s
- 1-
J.
WEATHER FORECAST:
t
Cooler Tonight. '
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
i
k
NTJMBEB 8895.
WASHINGTON, TUESDAY EVENING-, MAY 0, 1016.
PBICE ONE OBNT.v
WILSON CALLS
shi'-sto.: "wmm
MILITIA;
o
TO PATROL
ARMS SHIP CYMRIC
SINKS; TORPEDOING
MAY OPEN NEW ISSUE
Status of White Star Vessel in Question.
Carried No Passengers Crew Lands in
Ireland President Wilson's Position
Believed Acceptable to Berlin.
Torpedoed by a German submarine, the White Star
liner Cymric, carrying arms and munitions from New York
to Liverpool, sank off the Irish coast early this morning.
Cablegrams from Consul Frost at Queenstown assert
that the vessel was in the admiralty service. At the same
time officials of the White Star line in New York deny that
the vessel was in government service although she had
been withdrawn from passenger service.
Revival of the armed liner issue and renewal of the
doubt that Berlin is keeping, the pledge to warn, visit, and
search merchantmen who do resist and attempt to flee Is
forecast in this conflfct as to the Cymric's status.
In the meantime President Wilson's note has gone
forward to Berlin, declaring in clear terms America's posi
tion on the issues with Germany.
From sources close to the German embassy, it is indi
cated that Berlin is prepared to accept that position without
further question.
.Wilson Expects
' Full Acceptance
On Part of Berlin
That Germany will find the United
States position acceptable In tho form
laid down by President Wilson In his
note made public today. It strongly In
dicated by German officials here. One
person close to the German embassy
admitted his oi.lnlcn that the attitude
.of this coJntry Is reasonable.
"Aa lone sh the United States doesn't
say sh will not seek to bring ICngland
Into line with International law, Ger
many can be satisfied." he said.
In Ute iew of Amerlcrn officials, if
Germany is unwilling to ahlde by In
ternational law In her submarine war
far, except In return for successful
United States negotiations with Grent
Britain, she must my so definitely.
By accepting the President' note,
with its clear declaration that Fng-
(Contlnued on Page Twelve.)
Fay Is Sentenced
For German Plots
Must Serve Eight Years in Atlanta
Penitentiary. Accomplices
Get Shorter Terms.
NEW TORK. May 9. The first prison
sentences Imposed upon principals In
German plots were pronounced by Fed
eral judie Howe at noon today when
he sentenced Lieut. Robert Fay to eight
years In the Atlanta penitentiary, Paul
Daeche to two years, and Walter Schol
four years for conspiracy to blow up
ships carrying munitions.
In sentencing the men. Judge Howe
said: "Men such as you, who have no
respect for human life, should know
that the laws of this country are not
suspended, even though there Is a war
In Europe."
The men were found guilty by a Jury
which rejurned a verdict last night
alter being out rive and one-half hours.
It was reported Kay was found guilty
on tho first ballot, Schelz on the soo
ond, and Daeche on tne sixth. Almost
hair the Jurors held out for "not guilty"
for Daeche until agreement was reached
that leniency be recommended.
Kach defendant was sentenced on two
counts, but the scntencos will be servea
concurrently. Fay. sentence- to two
jears and eight, will serve eight; Scholr
to lour years and four will serve, four,
and Daeche to two and two, will serve
two.
Undertakers Go On Strike.
LONDON, May 9. Dispatches from
Liverpool state that the dead have
not been burled since Eaturday on
account of a atrlku of tho undertakers.
Cymric Survivors
Safe at Bantry; 5
Killed by Torpedo
LONDON, May 9.-The White Star
liner Cymric, torpedoed yesterday after
noon by a German submarine, sank at
S o'clock this morning while attempting
to make her way into an Irish port.
Most of the 107 officers and crew were
saved.
An earlier message said that several
vessels were proceeding to the Cymrlc's
assistance, and it is assumed that the
rcscuo steamers took off tho crew.
Tho Dutch steamer Grotlno sent the
following wireless message via the
Valentla, Ireland, station:
"Cymric sank 3 this morning. All
hands safe."
la Admiralty Service.
The Cymric was in the admiralty serv
ice as a carrier of arms and ammuni
tion from New York to Liverpool, bhe
sailed from New York on April TJ. arta
was due in Liverpool yesterday.
The White Star office believes that no
Americans were among the crew of 110
carried by the Cymric, though ono or
two American sailors may have been
taken on at New York.
The liner was capable of only about
fifteen knots an hour, and with her
heavy war munitions cargo would have
been easy prey to one of tho new and
speedy German submarines. For the
(Continued on Page Twelve.)
Banker's Daughter
Elopes With Clerk
Friends of Miss Virginia Speare Poole,
daughter of John Poolei president of the
Federal National Bank, were surprised
today when they learned of her wed
ding to Ralph Waldo Hunt, a clerk in
her father's Institution.
The wedding was solemnized In Rock
vllle last Fnday. although friends of
the young touple did not learn tof it
until today.
The families of both admitted today
they hud been Informed of the elope
ment, but neither Mr. Poole nor rela
tives of the bridegroom would discuss
the romnnce.
The clerk at Rockvllle court house
said the bride's age was given as eight
een, and the bridegroom's as twenty
one. The minister who performed the
ceremony has not yet returned certifica
tion of the wedding to the clerk. Ho
has thirty days In which to do this.
Miss Poole is a tall, decided brunette
and la popular In the younger social set
of Washington. She lives with her
parents at 26J1 Woodley road. The bride
groom lives at 2818 Garfield street north
west, and It Is said to have been a
"Just around the corner romance."
He was employed as a clerk by the
American Security and Trust Company
for three years, and resigned his posi
tion there a month ago to go to the
Federal National.
THE RIGGS JURY
Jamps W. Martin, 720 Maryland avenue northeast, builder.
John Heitmuller, 1347 Shepherd street northwest, produce dealer.
Herman W. Walther, 4903 Forty-first street, Tenleytown, con
tractor. Napoleon B. Scott, 2047 Nichols avenue southeast, cigar dealer.
Edgar H. Pullman, 420 Ninth street northwest, photographic sup
ply dealer.
Charles R. Schutt, 3120 M street northwest, house furnishings.
William J. Brewer, 606 Pennsylvania avenue southeast, printer.
Ottmor Sonneman, 2003 Grant road, expressman.
Raymond J. Cooley, department store floorwalker.
Joseph H. Kendrick, 817 Fourth street northwest, market employe.
D. Lawrence Engle, insurance agent.
John Keys, 3701 New Hampshire avenue northwest, grocer.
HILL 304 ATTACKLASKEY OPENS FOR
REPULSED
FRENCH
RETAIN POSITIONS
Germans Also Driven From
Thiancourt Trenches on East
Bank of Meuse.
PAR1B. May 9. A violent German at
tack on Hill 804. at 3 o'clock this morn
ing, wis completely repulsed, the war
office announces.
On the east bank of the Meuse. north
east of Verdun, French counter-attacks
during the night In the region north
west of Thlaumont, threw the Germans
from the few points in the French first
line trenches they still held, as the re
sult of Sunday's heavy attack against
the French front.
The Uerman attack on Hill 304 follow
ed a night of heavy bombardment. The
Germans played shells upon the French
defensive positions on the hill until
nearly dawn. French curtain tire
brought tne charge to an immediate
halt.
On the cast bank of the Meuse the
Germans made no attempt at a vigorous
offensive, contenting tnemselves with
bombarding violently the Douaumont
Vaux front. The raid by which the
1' rench recaptured lost ground was the
only Important Infantry action on this
side of the river.
French troops carried a German post
near Roland, in the Argonne last night,
killing all the occupants.
Haucourt Trenches Are
Captured By Germans
BERLIN, May . German troops have
stormed and captured several French
trenches south of Haucourt In the
region of Hill 304, the war office an
nounces. All French atempts to recapture Ger
man positions on Hill 304 have been
repulsed.
On tho northeast front of Verdun.
French attacks in the region of Thlau
mont also failed.
Prisoners taken by the Germans on
that sector now number 391. The Ger
mans also took nine machine guns.
Lake Steamer Sinks,
20 Believed Lost
The Kirby Goes to Bottom of
Eagle Harbor in
Gale.
SAUI.r STR. MARIS. Mich., May 9.
Twenty members of the crew of the
ileamer Klrby nre belloved ' to have
perished In the sinking of that vessoi
last night after n desperate twelve
hour light against n sixty-mile gule
swooping Lake Superior. The Klrby
went to the bottom orf Eagle harbor
Details of th'i disaster were brought
lo the rfoo today by the steamer
Joseph Block. Tim Block resct'ed one
member of the Klrbv's crew. No re
ports havo been received regarding the
others.
Seven members of the crew of the
l-ante Hnrtwell. which was In tow of
the Klrby, are believed safe. The barge
In repotted to havo been picked up by
the steamer Brrry and taken to rhelter
behind Keweenaw Point.
Motor man A Hacked
Falls From His Car
Norman E. Satler, twenty-live, of 1213
Qladensburg road, a motorman on the
II street car line, Is at Cumialty Hos
pital suffering fiom concussion of tho
brain. Tho police nre looking for a
colored man believed by them to have
nisnulted Satler about 11:40 last night.
Th police say the motorman and tlie
negro became Imolved in an alterca
tion on the car whllo ner Ninth and
H streets northeast The man rtruck
Satler. who fell from the front platform
of the car. striking his head.
Physlc'uns at the hospital said today
that Satler Is doing well and thut he
will probably recover.
MEXICAN LINE
U. S. AS RIGGS JURY
PANEL IS COMPLETE
Court Decides to Keep Jury
Locked Up Throughout Trial
of Perjury Case.
That the prosecution In the perjury
trial of the Rgg bankers, Charles C.
Glover, president; William J. Flather,
vice president, and Henry H. Flather,
former cashier, will attempt to prove
that the defendants had a "strong mo
tive" for the offense charged against
them, was one of the outstanding dec
larations of District Attorney Laskey's
opening statement to the Jury In crim
inal division No. I, of the District Su
preme Court, today.
The district attorney consumed a little
less than an hour in addressing the
jury, beginning shortly after 11 o'clock.
'JOlt jVry w"" completed from the new
panel ot veniremen within an hour after
John B. tftanchfleld of counsel for
the defen.se, announced Just prior to
th. noon recess that he would malto
the opening statement for the de
renso when thd iourt reconvenes.
Jury Locked Up.
Three deputy United fitates mar
shals were assigned to take chare
of flic Jury, which was locked tip
duiliur rncess.
Tho court has decided that th6 Jury
!!i.tiJ';J0Ck'!d up throughout th
trial of the case.
This Is the flrst tlmu In the trial of
in ? C". th?1 M? ,ury ha. been
rotr.r.ice'li.oS: D"tr,ct 8up"'"u
!Vcl Att0"2eJ I-aiikey disavow!
iJ'nJr..Mre',ue,,t'Jd J,h"t tne take
this action, and declared that Justice
(Continued on Second Page.)
Americans Escape;
Captors Prisoners
Seven Taken at Glenn Springs
Bring Back Guards to This
Side of Border.
MARATHON. Tex., May 9.-Seven
Americans captured by the Glenn
Pprini; rulders hav,i overpowered thtli
guards and estapod to the American
Mdt. of 'the border bringing time Mex
ican tuai dr. with them aa captives, ac
C0l,"',.lf, l" dispatches "hlng the nov
expeditions y base line toiuy.
Five British Officers'
Surrendered to Turks
CONSTANTINOPLE. May J.-Bealdea
General Townshend. British command
er, tho following British generals and
colonels surrendered to the Turks at
Kut-El-Amara, the war office announc
ed: General Povna. commander of the
Blxlh Infantry division; Generals Dab
mack, Hamilton, and Colonel Evans,
commanders of the Sixteenth. Seven
teenth, and Eighteenth brigades, re
spectlvely. and General Smith, com
mander of artillery.
London Press Commends
Position of President
LONDON, May 9. "Uncompromising,
stern, and emphatic," was the charac
terisation of President Wilson's note of
acceptance of Germany's reply, by the
Globe, formerly one of the President's
harsh critic.-, this afternoon.
"Puts Germany on probation," was
the Evening Standard's headline.
"Summarised, the note says 'wait and
see.' " said the Pall Mall Gazette.
"Only t me will show how the Kaiser
Interprets this happy abandonment,"
aid the Weitmlnster Gazette.
CITIZEN SOLDIERS OF THREE STATES
NOW IBM TO GUARD BORDER
Cabinet Positively Refuses to Accede to Demands of
Obregon That Troops. Be Withdrawn More
Regular Infantrymen Rushed to Line. .
President Wilson today called out the National Guard of Texas,
New Mexico, and Arizona for service on the Mexico border. These
troops are now mobilizing. '
In addition to this action, the War Department ordered three
more regiments and two more battalions of regular army. infantry to
the border.
These steps, resulting in an increase of 8,800 troops in the border
forces, were the direct outcome of the Mexican raids on' the American
border towns or" Glenn Springs and Boquillas, in which six Americans
were killed, two wounded and four captured. '
The second American punitive expedition, under command of
Major Langhorne, crossed the Mexican boundary today at Glenn Springs
in pursuit of the raiders.
Grave pessimism exists in official circles over the outlook. Maj.
Gen. Hugh L. Scott reported to the War Department today that his
conferences with General Obregon, Carranza's minister of war, hay
ing reached a deadlock, are probably at an end.
Obregon has demanded of General Scott that a time limit be set at
once on the stay of the American troops in Mexico.
President Wilson and his Cabinet at today's meeting positively re
fuse to accede to the demand of Obregon.
Scott is understood to have advised the department to prepare for
trouble.
Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador-designate, called at
the State Department just before the Cabinet meeting and had a long
conference with Secretary Lansing.
Arredondo charged that the raids on Glenn Springs and Boquillas
were organized under the auspices of American aid, and that the active
organizer was Antonio I. Villareal, Mexico's I. W. W. agitator, whlj
was recently released on bail at San Antonio, Tex.
The Mexican ambassador warned Secretary Lansing of raids whicfr
Villareal has planned against two other American border towns. Mr.
Lansing reported this to Secretary of War Baker, and General Funstori
has been put on his guard.
ARREDONDO IN
OF PLANS FOR RAIDS
Carranza's Ambassador-Designate
Tells Lansing of Two
More Towns Selected.
Advance formation of the plans of
f.vli.n Hnn.llta tn caM turn mm hnr-
.- .... .. ... !..... ... D...1.i.ii N
tier IU IIS, WHS Hltiril lu uvutrmij u
State Lansing today by Rl'seo Arre
dondo, Carranza's ambassador-designate
to Washington.
Secretary Lansing withheld the names
of the towns. He gave the Information
to Secretnry of War Baker and orders
at once wero tranemttted from the War
Department to General Funston to tako
steps to guard tho threatened border
towns.
Ambassador Arredondo charged An
tonio Villareal with chief responsibil
ity for the Glenn Springs border raid.,
He rem'nded Secretary Lansing he hd
warned the State Department two weeks
ago of Vlllareal's revolutionary activi
ties. Arredlndo Insisted that the Mexican
rnvernment was not to blam; for tho
Glenn Springs raid. He said the raid
(Continued on Second Pace.)
REFUSE AGREEMENT
TO SET TIE LIT
Cabinet Members Reject Obre
gon Proposal as to American
Troops. 4
General Obregon has demanded that
a time limit be set upon the stay of
American troop In Mesleo,
The United States Goveinnent will
refuse positively to accede to any such
limitation, it was decided, at today's
Cabinet meeting. The Government pol
icy Will be to continue to i of use to
make a time limit.
Generals Scott nnd Obreoon expect to
have one more conference, at least.
This will determine whether thev can
reach nnv terms acceptable to the Unit
ed States. At that conference It Is like
lv that the Mexican terms will he put
In writing. If Obrrgon 'lands pat m
h s agreement he will be 'flatlv told
the United Prates cannot fept any
suth condltlrns. Inssmueh as bv sttt'nt
a time llm't It rrltht f.nd Itself In the
position of emitting tho bonW before
(Continued on Second Pag.)
I
ORDERS TO MILITIA
PUT IN OPERATION
Border Reports Announce Activ
ity Among State Soldiers.
Further Call Possible. i
Kormsl announcement of the Presi
dent's action in calling out the militia
or three States and adding to the reguZ
lar army quota on the border was mad,
at the War Department at 10 o'clock
this morning by Becretary Uaker, He
Issued the following statement:
The outbreak in the Big Bend dis
trict of the rti3 Grande has so far
turther emphasised the danger of
similar occurrences along our own
border that the President has called
out the mllltla of ArUona, New MXt
Ico, and Texas, and directed them to
report to General Funston, who win
niMg,n them stations along the bor- '
der for patiol outy.
Ih addition to that, three additional
reimnts ot regular Infantry have
been directed to proceed to the Wr
der. ond sucn furthsr arrangement
will oe nnde as are necessary for tha
complete security of the people of
ST
r
