THE DAIIY TELEGRAM t-rjf~|s?"r-)
) EXCLUSIVE ASSOCIATED PRESS SERVICE BY PRIVATE WIRE J _
XRKSBURG W VA TUESDAY, MAY 9, lPll). PRICE TWO CENTS
ESTABLISHED 1861. CLAKkbnl K(.t, w. VA.,
MILITIA IS CALLED OUT
BORDER STATE TROOPS
' SUMMONED TO COLORS
Nni'SS"ari0,TeMS-W?
na and New Mexico Will Re
Port to General Funston.
WORE REGULAR INFANTRY
TolaJ Additional Force Sent to
the border under New Or
ders is 7.000 Men.
the foUmvlL !!T Tuef(lav Issued
thei?Sl5?2StS?nt rmns
mgsz&M
report to Gen" '""I" 'llr"pte<l thr-.'n to
il?:F- =
rerimeat?'n?" '? ,wo -"Htlonal
bpcn dlrorfofi , BUlar ,nf??ry have
1 .!i 1 t0 procoe(l to the bor
n-Ill bo mn?i furl!le'' arrangements,
be made as necessary for rht.
Sd'sfr,i,y ?f "'*? ^n.e??rr tt
character." a8ainst raids ?r th!:i
thfThT^T I,I)kPr 8111,1 the "iHit ia of
avaitnhio >'? r sUtes woll''l maste
available about 4,000 men.
" j'd<Utjon three regiments of rep-1
,,.1," werp Tuesday ordered
thp ThirHrTr', Thcse reS'?ents were
h irj v v Infantry, now at I'latts
MnJi'. . ,he Thir<l infantry, at
arracks' d'vlded betweenl
atertown and Oswego, N V- th?
baWrrack?flrSt Vancouve?!
PonrJpo^.i, ? , tW0 l,atta"on? of the!
near Smim? "Iv"'!? al Fort '?'? ton,|
kane. Wash ' ' """ ?"e at Spo"!
tt, Tk? t0tal ad<"tional force scut toi
In* hZTr Und,?r tl"'8" ordorB Includ
,n^v. t regular and militia Is ap
proximately 7,000 men. I
"il'CPr "'so announced'
.h? i of-PoWtahed reports that
.,Upon 01en Springs had been;
organized on the American side of
the line, according to iMexIcan re
?.?r's; he h?'l telegraphed to General
Funston that he might investigate.
I he national guardsmen are or
dered out under the Dick law, au
thorizing their service anywhere In
the United States, but not beyond I
the border. Under that law every
nian in the regiments who is pliys
acally able may be forced to servo.
If service beyond the border was con-j
templated the regiments would boi
mustered Into the federal army asl
volunteers and It would be optional
'with the men whether they would
serve.
The disposition of the militia and1
or the regulars along the border is,
entirely In General Funston's hands.1
He probably will direct their mobili-l
zation in such units and at such
points as he deems best to guard1
a&iinst new raids. While only the
guardsmen from the three states!
mentioned have actually been order
out the war department is prepared
to send similar orders to other near
by states should the necessity arise.
Recommendations by Generals Scott
and Funston will regulate the send
ing of additional guardsmen.
With the despatch of the four ad
ditional regiments to the border the
entire mobile troops of the United
States with the exception of Ave
trops of cavalry, are either mobil
ized upon the border or In Mexico
in pursuit of bandits Every Infantry
man in the country is either on the
border, en route there or in Mexico
The remainder of the infantry and
cavalry is on foreign service or In
LAlaska.
FUNSTON GOES BACK
TO HIS HEADQUARTERS
EL PASO, May 9?On receipt or
(news that President Wilson had or
dered out the border militia, General
Funston announced that he would
immediately return to his headquar
ters at San Antonio.
'NATIONAL GUARD IS
ABOUT READY TO START
<BV ASSOCIATED mitSl
SANTB FK, X. A!., May 9.?New Mex
ico's militia comprising approximately
?k3,100 men can ho on its way to the
Pt.order within twenty-four hours, ac
cording to a statement made Tuesday
J)y Adjutant General Harry T. Herring.
NO MORE TKOOPS.
<?* ASSOCIATED PBUfl
WASHINGTON. May 9.?After a
Vief cabinet meeting, at which the
Mexican situation was very thorough
ly discussed, Secretary Baker an
nounced that no more movement's of
militia or regular troops to the bor
der was in contemplation.
CAKKANZA APPROVES
(?V AStOCIATKO PHKtBI
WASHINGTON. May 9.?Special
lAgent Rodgers at Mexico City, Tues
day telegrapBed the state department
that General Carranza had indicated
his approval of the tentative border
Jiroctocol, which has practically been
concluded by General Scott and Gen
jwU Obregon
LAST MILL
Is to Be Spent, if Necessary, to
Prove That She is Not
Guilty.
(?V ASSOCIATED PMESS)
HARTFORD, Ct., May 9.?Hartford
! county authorities and the state police
Tuesday continued their investigation
of the death of F. R. Andrews, of
Cheshire, and other inmates of the
Archer home for elderly people at
Windsor. Mrs. Amy E. Archer Galli
gan, proprietor of the home, is under
arrest charged with Andrews's murder.
An autopsy, it is charged, showed that
poison had been administered to him.
(Mrs. Gailigan denies any connection
with the death. "I will prove my in
nocence,'' she said, "if it takes my last
mill. I will hang before they prove it."
SIEAIWER LOST
Off the Coast of Eagle Harbor
of Lake Superior during
a Terrific Storm.
(?V ASSOCIATED PRESS!
SAULT STE. MAR HE, Mich.. May 9.
?The steamer S. R. Kirby, owned by
the Northwestern Transportation oCm
pany. of Detroit, was lost off Eagle
harbor. I^ake Superior, during a ter
rific storm, according to a report re
ceived here Tuesday. The steamer
carried a crew of twenty men and it is
believed they were drowned.
' ESCAPE
Of Americans Captured by the
Mexican Bandits is Report
ed in Private Message.
'MY ASSOCIATED PRESS;
EL PASO, May 9?A private mes
sage received here Tuesday says the
seven American employes of tho Por
to Rico de Boquillas mines, near Bo
quillas, Mexico, who were captured
by Mexican bad it raiders, overpower
by Mexican bandit raiders, overpower
border, bringing three of the Mexi
cans with them as prisoners. The
message, which was later confirmed,
says Dr. Powers, of San Angelo,
Tex., who was among the captured,:
also made his escape. I
FAY SENTENCED
To Serve Eight Years in the
Federal Penitentiary at
Atlanta, Ga.
(BY ASSOCIATED RRESD
NEW YORK. May 9?Robert Fay. j
former lieutenant in the German
army, convicted in tho federal court
Monday of conspiring to destroy mu
nition ships of the Allies through
bomb contrivances, was Tuesday sen
tenced to serve eight years in the fed
eral penitentiary at Atlanta.
Walter Scholz. his brother-in-law,
and Paul Daeche, also convicted,
were sentence^ to serve four years
and two years respectively.
FIRE
Starts in Mattress Factory and De
stroys Many Small Houses.
(?V ASSOCIATED PNtiM)
KNOXVILLE, Tonn.. May 9.?Fire
starting at an parly hour In a frame
building occupied by a mattress fac
tory in the northwestern outskirts of
the city had destroyed thirty small
dwellings Tuesday and wa3 still un
controlled. A stiff breeze is blow
lng.
JURY VERDICT.
A circuit court Jury Tuesday gave
Pntrlck A. Caufleld a verdict for
$17.15 against C. W. Shrader and
ethers. Judgment for JO 18.14 was
given the Morgantown Oil and Gas
Company against F. Clark Ice and
others.
COSTOX FILES.
Isaac J. Coston Tuesday filed Ills
announcement with the clerk of the
circuit court that he is a candidate
for the Democratic nomination for
committeeman from the Second ward
of the city.
PROMINENT MINISTER HERE.
The Rev. Dr. David L. Ash, of SIs
tersville, one of the. most*prominent
ministers of the Methodist Episcopal
denomination In this state and a lead
ing Odd Fellow, is a city visitor on
business. He was former presiding
elder of this district.
TRENCHES CAPTURED.
(?V ASSOCIATED mill)
BERLIN, May 9.?The capture of
several French trenches on the Ver
dun front, south of Haucourt, was
announced by the war office Tues
day.
ALL SATED.
(IV AtaoCIATSD PflKMl
LONDON, May 9.?Lloyds reports
that the White Star liner Cymric sank
at 3 o'clock Tuesday morning. AU on
board were saved.
SAFffl-FIRST
SPECIAL Till
BIG SUCCESS
First Week of Trip Out Makes
Visit of 28,000 and Thou
sands Turned Away.
WASHINGTON, May !).?The gov
ernment "safety-first" special train
which is to visit several of'the towns
in West Virginia during the next ten
days, having completed the flrst week
of its itinerary, came back to Wash
ington to allow the ofiiciais of the
party to spend Sunday nt home. All
of the ofliclals and executive oiilcers
were enthusiastic over the success of
the flrst lap of their journey.
Van H. Manning, -ilrector of the
bureau of mines, who is In charge of
an exhibit particularly Interesting to
West Virginians, said that in the flrst
week of the trip 58,000 persons saw
the exhibit and thousands were turn
ed away because they could, not get
through the crowd.
"The interest that the people seem
to have In the work of the federal
government," said Mr. Manning, "is
remarkable. The grntlfying results
already obtained show very clearly
the need of such a traveling exposi
tion as this one. The pleased and
Intelligent comments or the people
are adding much to the interest which
has already been shown by the em
ployes of the government on the
train."
The party will leave Cumberland
on Tuesday night anil from there
will go Into West Virginia, with stops
at Fairmont, Morgantown, Clarks
burg, Parkersburg, and possibly
Wheeling,-besides smaller towns.
COSTLY STRIKE
As the Workers Lose More
Than Million and Quarter
Dollars in Wages.
(?V ASSOCIATED P4l'SS>
PITTSBURG, May 1).?The Htrike
of 15,000 electrical workers and shell
makers at the Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Company ended
Tuesday when there was a rush of
strikers to enter the plants as soon as
the gates were opened. President E. '
M. Herr told the strikers' committee
late Monday that unless all .employes
were in their places Tuesday morning
they would have to be re-employed
and would lose all the benefits'accru
ing to them under the company's com
pensation and pension system. The
strike which was called April 22 was
to enforce an eight-hour day and, ac
cording to the company, cost the
workers $1,397,500 in wages.
GERMS REPULSED
By the French at a Hill on the
Verdun Front by Counter
Attacks.
(BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
PARIS. May !).?After a violent bom
bardment of the French positions at
hill 304 on the Verdun front the Ger
mans attempted to advance at 3 o'clock
Tuesday morning. The war office an
nounces that the attack was repulsed
completely. Counter attacks east of
the Meuse drove the Germans from
certain positions they had captured.
SOCIAL POSTPONED.
The parcel post social that was to be
at Mrs. Okey Grant's, colored, Thurs
day lias been postponed until later.
Farm Commissioner is
Out for denomination
1I0WAKI) K. WILLIAMS.
H. E. Williams, commissioner of agriculture, who is u Candida to for
renominalion, addresses the voters as follows:
I To the citizens of West Virginia:
I wish to express my sincere appreciation of your confidence in the past
: in electing me lo the important and responsible office of commissioner of
I agriculture.
! The work and usefulness or this department is limited only by the ability
j and willingness of the office force to work and accomplish results, and by
the appropriations made by the logislature from year to year.
I Prom the beginning of my term of office to the present time, I have en
deavored to put into the work of organizing the new state department, every
bit of energy and thought at my command.
Some of the purposes and object* which I had in view before my election
to this office have been accomplished. We now have in effect in West Virginia,
one of the best live stock sanitary laws in America, and under its provision
several hundred outbreaks of ocntaglous or infectious diseases among our
domestic animals have been controlled and eradicated. We have on our
statute book a splendid crop pes' law for the control and eradication of dis
eases and Insects affecting our fruit trees and nursery stock. This Is being
enforced to the full extent of the means available for that purpose. The new
seed inspection law is having a good effect on the sale of agricultural seeds;
although no funds are available for Its enforcement. The state department
has exceed every possible effort for the advertisement of the natural re
sources and agr'cultural possibli-tles of West Virginia. These and many other
lines of work undertaken by thb. department, cannot be properly prcHented in
! this short article, but will be effectively worked out in ihe near future as
| time will permit.
Since taking the oath of office, my action has at all times been controlled
by a sense of duty to the state believing that the best service to my party is
fulfilled In conscienlous service to the whole people, and I have at all times
I worked conscientiously to make successful the present administration, of
which I am a part.
My work as a member of the board of public works has in the most part
been pleasant, and agreeable, but I have at no time permitted any factional
differences to influence my actirn. endeavoring at all times to act honestly
and honorably with all corporations nnd men both great and small.
I believe in the fundamental principles of the Republican party, and have
always worked to the end that ppace and harmony might prevail. I have de
layed making any announcement as a candidate to succeed myself for two
reasons: my work In the state department of agriculture occupies my entire
time, and it has been my sincere purpose, so far as possible, to refrain from
entering any factional alliances The time for the primary election on June 6
Is rapidly approaching, and it becomes necessary that I again become a candi
date, asking yom support, both in the primary and general election, and trust
that my action In the past will merit your confidence.
I I am a candidate for the Kepubllcan nomination for the office of eom
i missioncr of agriculture, and will appreciate your support and will at all
times act honestly for the best Interests of the whole people.
Very truly yrr rs.
II. E. V {T.LIAMS. Commissioner of Agriculture.
GRID JURY
Insists That the Governor Bring
Guy Biddinger Back
for Trial.
(?V ABBOCIATZQ *
CHICAGO, May 9.?The grand jury
'which recently indicted Guy Biddin
| ger, former Chicago detective, on
charges of grafting, adopted a reso
lution Tuesday calling upon Governor
[ Dunne to honor the application for
| the extradition of Biddinger from
New York.
Governor Dunne has hesitated to
take action on representation that It
was more Important that Biddinger
should appear as a witness In a case
at Wheeling, W. Va.
JAILED FOR TRIAL.
Charles Drerrer Is a prisoner In the
county jail awaiting a trial before |
Magistrate Jackson V. Carter, on a
charge of assaulting Samuel Auylllc.
The warrant was sworn out Monday
by D. E. McNlcol and Drerrer was
arrested and jailed Tuesday morn
ing. Drerrer will be arranged for;
a trial In a day or two.
NEW 92 HORSEPOWER AEROPLANE FOR THE MEXICAN BORDER
Curtlu N-8 type of 92 horsepower aeroplane.
Four of tfcese Curtiss planes have been purchased by the U. S. army and shipped to the first aero squadron in
Mexico. The machines will replace the J-6 type, worn out during the recent activities of the squadron. The
N-8 type did splendid work lor the British at the Dardanelles.
PRESENT STAGE
QUITE CRITICAL
VEHICLE TRAFFIC
BARRED FROM
NEW BRIDGE
Fourth Street Structure Unsafe,
Says Superintendent, and
He Has It Closed.
Street Superintendent Edward J.
Doyle Tuesday morning ordered that
the now Fourth street bridge bo closed
to all vehicle traffic until It is paved.!
The bridge is unsafe and a menace to
the lives of humans and animals, ac
cording to 'Mr. Doyle.
In accordance with the superinten
dent's orders fences were built at both
ends of the bridge to keep vehicles off.
Pedestrians will be allowed to cross as j
usual.
There Is a Inrge number of holes in j
the dirt on the bridge, some of them
bfllnfrfrom three to four feet deep, it!
is said. In addition to the danger to
horsoB and their drivers, it is pointed
out that Just after a rain pedestrians
are spattered with mud by the passing
teams.
Superintendent Doyle said the
hrldgo would not be re-opened until It
I was paved.
i When asked If he intended to eultl
i vate the ground on \he floor of the
I bridge and raise a garden, the street
superintendent replied that he was
not, but added that he wan considering
i putting flsh In tin encloso.l space and
having an aquarium.
CERTIFICATES
Of Incorporation Are Issued by
the Secretary of State to
Three New Concerns.
} CHAMIjBSTON, May 9.?Certificates
| of Incorporation have been tanned by
I tlie secretary of state to the following
' new concerns:
The IXckBon Mghtlng Studios, of
Pittsburg, to manufacture electrical
appliances; authorized capital, $6,000;
Incorporators, D. T. R. Dickson, H. 0.
Dickson. F. A. Dickson, W. A. Prey, of
| Pittsburg, and James Gardner, of
j Heaver Falls, Pa.
| The Palmer-Marshall Supply Com
1 pany, of Morgantown, authorized cap
ital. $2r>,000; Incorporators, F. B. Pal
mer, T. W. Marshall, A. A. Campbell,
J. U Klfcr and D. W. McConnell, all ol
Morgantown.
The Saddle Club, of Wheeling, pur
posing to encourage horseback riding
and driving, and maintain a race track
and club house; authorized capital,
>20,000; incorporators, W. C. llandlan,
C. N, Hanchcr. R. M. Hroune, John E.
Stevenson and A. T. Sweeney, all of
Wheeling.
And Supper Will Be Given in
the Glen Elk Hall
Tonight.
The colored organization of the
Ladles of the Gaatern Star will give
a musical program and a supper In
the Glen Elk hall tonight. There
will bo a nominal charge. The fol
lowing program will be rendered:
Invocation.
Selection?Westalava quartet.
Instrumental solo?Mrs. Lizzie
Hlclienbotam."
Vocal solo?Mrs. Anna Topsil.
Paper?Miss Delle Patton.
Vocal solo?Miss Wtlla Lee.
Address?The Rev. Mr. Carol.
Instrumental solo?Mrs. Dolly
Carey.
Vocal solo?Mrs. W. A. Johnson.
Closing selection?Westalava quur
tet.
Supper.
Cold Slaw
Chicken and Ham
Hot Rolls Butter and Coffee
Peas in Patties Saratoga Chips
MISS WRIGHT DEAD
Mal>el May Wrlglit, Daughter of
James C. Wright, I'ndse* On.
?
Mabel May Wright, aged IB years,
1 daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James C.
Wright, of 407 Ben street, died at
5:10 o'clock Tuesday morning follow
ing an Illness of complication of dis
eases. The deceased girl Is survived
by her parents and three daughters,
Misses Boulnh. Evelyn and Mary
Wright, all living at home. The fu
neral arrangements have not been
made yet.
WADSWOKTH AWOCXCE8.
John W. Wadnworth, of Lumberport,
has announced hlB candidacy for Jus
tice of the peace on the Republican
ticket and filed his application with
the circuit court clerk.
1 In the Negotiations between
General Hugh Scott and
General Obregon.
TO TRY TO AVOID SPLIT
Another Conference is Said to
Have Been Asked by the
Mexican General.
i?v *aaaci*r?D *????>
! EL PASO, May 9.?A critical stag?
! apparently has developed in the nego
tiations between General Hugh L.
Scott, chief of staff of the United
j NCat.es army, and General Obregon, In
! regard to co-operation with American
j torces In Mexico.
It was said General Obregon has
asked for another conference follow
ing Monday's meeting in the private
car of Generals Scott and Funston.
1'roni Juarez came the Information
thnt General Obregon thought the
| negotiations might keep him here an
other two or threo days. While the
gravity of the situation is admitted
it Is thought that' in the next meeting
steps to avoid a split will be taken
BANKERS
Of This Section of the State Are
to Hold a Meeting Friday
at Morgantown.
The annual muetlng of group six
ot the West Virginia Bankers' Asso
ciation will be held at Morgantown,
Friday at 3 p. in., followed by a din
ner.
It Is cxpected that a goodly num
ber of prominent guests from within
the Btalc as well as bankers from
l'lttsburg and elsewhere will be pres
ent in addition to the usual good at
tendance of members.
The group Is comprised of Barbour,
Braxton, Doddridge, Harrison, Gil
mer, Lewis, Marlon, Monongalia,
I l'reston. Randolph, Taylor, Upshur
| and Webster county bankers.
YOUNG RROIHERS
Garage Company Delivers
Studebaker Delivery Car to
Square Snuff Agent.
The Young Brothers Garage Com
pany. of Second street, dellvored to D.
A. Shoaf, division manager of the
Georgo \V. llelmo Company, manufac
turers of Square snufr, a forty horse
power Studebakor delivery car Tues
day morning.
The car Is one or the late model
Studebaker ears and Is equipped with
electric lights and electric starter. The
car Is painted red with the Square
snuff trade mark and advertisement
on each side. The car is to he used for
advertising purposes and J. A. Berry,
of Fairmont, will have charge of it
ATTENDING CONVENTION
Of Knights of Columbus at Weston
Arc Ijocal Dck-galeH.
J. Phillip Clifford, grand knight,
and James J. Devlne, past grand
knight, of Clarksburg Council, No.
R72, Knights of Columbus, are at
Weston attending the annual state
convention of the Knights of Colum
bus which is In session there today.
At the afternoon session the ofllcers
for the ensuing year will be elected
and the next meeting place selected.
Mr. Clifford and Mr. Devlne are dele
gates representing the local coun
cil.
JAILKD FOR TRIAL.
Awaiting trial under a charge of
being drunk and disorderly In the
street, Charles Clifford, a laborer. Is
a prisoner in the county jail, having
been placed there Monday night by a
constable. He Is to be tried by Mag
istrate T, G. Nlcewarner.
UNIQUE AID MEETS.
The colored Unique Aid Society met
at the home of N. M. Wilson, colored,
Monday evening with Halloway Wilson
host. The Rev. Mr. Carrojl was pres
ent. A paper was read by Miss Martha
Madison on "The World Is Growing
Better." The Rev. Mr. Carroll spoke
ably on the subject. Refreshments
were served. The next meeting will
be held at the parsonage.
MR. SAUNDERS DEAD.
Frank L. Saunders, a painter, who
resided here until recently, died at
10 o'clock Tuesday morning at his
home at Enterprise as a result of
stomach trouble. His wife and four
small children survive. The funeral
and burial will be held at Enterprise
Wednesday tfernoon with Enterprise
Knights of Pythias In charge.
00 TO CO.NTEVnOV.
Mlsa Pearl Doero and Sirs. Arthur
Barron, of Industrial, left Tuesday
morning for Morgantov.n where they
?will attend the state Sunday school
convention. They arc i*lc:mtns from
Hammond chapel Methodist npiscopal
church.
