Militia of Three Stales Called Out bv Piesident Fot Botdet Duty
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 105
WILSON CALLS NATIONAL
GUARD OF THREE STATES
TO STOP BOR
Militia of Texas, Arizona and New Mexico Summoned by
the President to Cope With Situation Raised by Depre
dations; Two Additional Regiments of Regular In
fantry Ordered South; Assurances Given That "Such
Farther Arrangements Will Be Made as Are Neces
sary For the Complete Security of the People of the
United States Against Raids of This Character"
ENTIRE MOBILE ARMY OF UNITED STATES NOW ON
MEXICAN BORDER; MAY CALL MORE GUARDSMEN
Eight Americans Taken Into Interior of Coahuila by Glenn
Springs Raiders Are Reported to Have Overpowered
Their Guards and Made Their Escape, Now Fleeing
Toward Border; Latest Attack Is Believed to Have
Been Organized on American Soil; Secretary Lansing
Assured by De Facto Minister Rumor That General
Obregon Demanded Recall of U. S. Troops Is False
Washington. May 9.—National Guardsmen of three states. Ari
zona. New Mexico and Texas, were called out by President \\ ilson
to-day to aid in protecting the border against Mexican raiders.
In addition practically all remaining mobile troops* of the regu
lar army were ordered to join the border forces. Rv these orders
approximately 8,000 additional troops were placed under Major-
General Funston's command.
Behind the orders is the plain intimation by administration
officials that the whole strength of the National Guard will be
similarly employed if ne<*£ssary.
The orders were issued after a brief conference between Presi
dent Wilson and Secretary of War Baker over a joint report from
Generals Scott and Funston at El Paso. The two officers stated that
the Glenn Springs raid made it plain that the border guard must be
materially increased.
Funston Free to Follow Hot Trail
Secretary Baker has not been advised whether a new expedi
tion has crossed the border in pursuit of the raiders, but orders have
not been changed and General Funston is free to follow any hot
ttail across the line.
No further word has come to clear up the border conference
over the status of General Pershing's expedition and co-operative
action. It was learned authoritatively that General Obregon refused
\ esterday to sign the protocol agreement already approved by Presi
dent Wilson. I lis reason for doing so was not disclosed. Officials
said however, that no demand has been made for the immediate
withdrawal of American forces.
Carranza Agrees to Protocol
The conference situation was further complicated bv official ad
vices from Mexico City saying General Carranza had agreed to the
protocol.
It was made plain here that the expedition will remain in Mexico
until the Carranza government has proven its ability to check
brigands and guarantee the security of American border towns. Sec
retary Baker said there had been no change in policy.
Secretary of War Baker said the militia of the three border
states would make available about four thousand men.
In addition three regiments of regular infantry were to-day or
dered to the border. These regiments were the 30th Infantry now
at Plattsburg, N. Y., the 3rd Infantry at Madison barracks, divided
between Watertown and Oswego, N. Y., the 21st Infantry at Van
couver barracks and two battalions of the 14th Infantry at Fort
Lawton, near Seattle, Wash., and one at Spokane, Wash.
Secretary Baker announced also that published reports that the
raid upon Glenn Springs had been organized on the American side
of the line, according to Mexican reports, had been telegraphed to
General Funston that lie might investigate.
Secretary Baker to-day issued the
following statement regarding the
use of the militia:
The outbreak in the Big Bend
district of the Rio Grande has so
far further emphasized the danger
of similar occurrences along our
long border fnat the President has
called out the militia of Arizona,
THE WEATHER
llarrishurg and vicinity: Fair
aincl cooler to-night with lonmt
temperature about .">0 degree*. Wed
nesday fair.
Hastern Pennsylvania i Fair,
cooler to-night. Weilnenlnv fair.
Moderate went and northwest
winds.
Itlver
The North branch will rise. The
main river and other branches will
remain nearly stationary. \ Mtage
of about 5.1 feet IN Indicated for
Harrlshurg Weducsday morning.
tienera I Condition*!
The disturbance that nan central
north of the Great I.akes Monday
morning ham moved off northeast
nard down the St. I.awrence valley.
It ha* caused tliundershowers gen
erally from the lake region and
upper Ohio valley caNttwird to the
Atlantic coast In the last 24 hour*.
A disturbance central over yo
ming has caused a general rise of
2 to 24 degrees In temperature o\er
nearly all the territory west of the
Mississippi river.
Temperaturei ft a. m. ( <l2.
Sun: Rises, 4JW a. m.; Sets, 7.0S
p. in.
Moon: First quarter to-morrow,
3.47 a. m.
River Stages 5.1 feet above low
water mark.
Yc*tcrriay*s Weather
Highest temperature, S.*l.
I.o*l c*t Temperature. .12.
Mran Temperstur«\ I;K.
Aorrnal temperature, r»U
BY CARRIER 0 TEXTS A WEEK.
SIXGI.E COPIES 2 CESTS.
s | New Mexico anil Texas and di
!i reeted them to report, to Genera!
Funston who will assign hem to
stations the border for
patrol duty.
I addition to that, two ad
ditional regiments of regular in
fantry have been directed to pro
i ceed to the border and such
further arrangements will he
made as are necessary for the
complete security of the people
of the United States against raids
of this character.
! Secretary Baker said the orders
sending more troops to the border
were made upon the joint recommen
dation of both General Scott and Gen
eral Funston and were without signifi
cance in connection with the Scott
obregon conferences. Regarding the
i progress of these conferences, Secre
tary Baker said General Scott was
; awaiting a communication from Gen
eral Obregon. Further than this the
J secretary refused to discuss the status
of the conferences.
Troops Urgently Xeciled
Generals Scott and Funston advised
the War Department that more troops
were urgently needed along the border
as a return of the Big Bend raiders
might be expected. They stated that
the regulars on patrol with the bulk
of the southern forces within Mexico
were insufficient to adequately guard
against repetition of the Big Bend
raid. It was upon these recommenda
tions, the President a»d Secretary
Baker decided to call into service the
N'ational Guard of the three border
States.
Step Is For Protection
Secretary Baker described the new
troop movement as a step merely for
protection of thp border. He said he
had not heard whether the American
troops in the Rig Bend region had
actually crossed the boundary in pur
i * I.Continued on I'afie 13]
HARRISBURG, PA., TUESDAY EVENING, MAY 9, 1916.
WHITE STAR LINER,'CARRYING MUNITIONS, TORPEDOED IN ENGLISH CHANNEL
*■»———"■«— in. .-v ~ •TBnMinrnnr'r —i —i rrr ~—r-t" nrer/..:::::::.
SS CYMRIC &> CFkFT jne/)NK £ BEADMK.J->L, fO/nn.. f=,cM SE-Rvce.
STEAMSHIP CYMRIC AND HER COMMANDER CAPTAIN FRANK E. BEADNEt„r,
Carrying a large cargo of munitions for England, but no passengers, the White Star liner Cymric, which left
New York on Aprfl 29, was torpedoed in the English Channel on May 8.
ACCEPT GERMAN
PLEDGE BUT TURN
DOWN CONDITIONS
Wilson in Brief Reply Serves
Notice That Ho Will Expect |
New U-Boat Policy
j Washington, D. C., May 9.—America's
| latest note to Germany on the sub
marine controversy had gone forward
to Berlin to-day and administration
officials were interested in knowing
whether Germany would make any re
ply. It was Intimated In German
circles that the imperial government
might not consider an answer neces
sary.
The text of the note, made public
last night, shows that the United States
accepts the German promises that sub •
[Continued on Page 14]
Standard Oil Director
Wills $500,000 to Yale
I New York, May 9.—A $500,000 be
-1 quest to Yale University and two be
! quests to the New York Presbyterian
; Hospital amounting 1o $350,000 are
j contained in the will of the late
Charles W. Harkness, Standard Oil
! Company director.
The chief beneficiaries are the
I widow, Mrs. Mary Warden Tlarkness,
and other relatives. Mr. Harkness was
rated as many times a millionaire.
STRIKERS RUSH
BACK TO PLANTS
ENDING TROUBLE
15,(XM) Westinghouse Workers
Hurry to Places When
Gates Open
By Associated Press
Pittsburgh, Pa., May 9.—The strike |
of 15,000 electrical workers and shell- ;
makers of the Westinghouse Electric
and Manufacturing Company at East j
Pittsburgh, ended to-day when there \
was a rush of strikers to enter the
plants as soon as the gates were
opened.
President E. M. Ilerr refused all j
the demands and told the strikers' j
committee late yesterday that unless j
all employes were in their places this !
morning they would have to be re- )
employed and would lose all the bene- !
(Its accruing to them under the com
pany's compensation and pension sys
tem. The strike which was calied
April 22 was to enforce an eight-hour
day and, according to the company, i
cost the workmen $1,397,500 In wages.
Believed Governor's Troop
Will Return Home Sat.;
Want to Go to Border Now
Special to the Telegraph
Pittsburgh, Pa.. May ».—With ex-;
ception of patrol duty in the streets:
of Kraddock between 5 and 7 o'clock j
IC'ontlmued on rage IXI
ONE MORE STEP
TAKEN AGAINST
OVERHEAD WIRES
Cumberland Phone Co. Aslcs
Permission to Lease Con
duits to Western Union
One more step toward ultimate
elimination of all overhead wires and
poles from the city streets was taken
In City Council to-day when City Com
missioner W. H. Dynch, superintendent
of streets and public improvements,
offered an ordinance permitting the
Cumberland Valley Telephone Com
pany to lease its underground con
duits to the Western Union Telegraph
Company.
The ordinance as offered by Mr.
L,ynch was read for the first lime and
was laicl over until tha next session for
further action.
The measure was offered on behalf
of the telephone company at the re
quest of Cameron L. Raer, general
manager, and a former select council
[Contlnned on Pago fl.]
S85,0<fl),000 FOR ROADS
Washington, D. C., May 9.—The Sen
ate yesterday passed without a record
vote the Uankhead good roads bill to
spend $85,000,000 In const ruction of
post roads, contingent on an equal ex
penditure by the States. Appropriation
of $10,000,000 for roads in national
forests is included. It differs from
the House bill.
PORCH-WINDOW
BOX CAMPAIGN IS
GOING WITH RUSH
Box Factory Comes In; Two
More Blocks Added; In
dividuals Enter
Another business house will be deco
rated with flowers and plants this
year. Samuel P. Eby, president of the
Harrlsburg Bag and Bo* Company,
with a large building at 1560 Vernon
street, to-day announced that he has
placed orders to have his plant
| adorned with wlndowboxes. Mr. Eby
1 was a pioneer in this movement and
is so well pleased with results that
he will not allow another year to pass
without plant decorations.
All over the city the Telegraph's
Torch and Window Box Campaign is
! meeting with wonderful success.
l<ont|niinl on Pnge 12.1
PORT SAID BOMBARDED
By . tssocialcd l*ress
London, May 9. A Reuter's dis
patch from Cairo says that two hostile
aeroplanes dropped eight bombs on
Port Said Sunday morning. Three
civilians were wounded and Hie at
tackers were driven off by flre from
anti-air craft guns. There was no
property damage.
CITY RAISES ITS
LABORERS' WAGES
TO HUSTLE WORK
Council Advances Minimum |
From 16 2-3 to 171-2
Cents Per Hour
Council tlila morning; offi
cially took NTOPK to MOIVC tlie labor
problem '.nnofnr an II upplle« to
w °rk In the KtrpfU. in the park*,
on pipe line conntructlon, etc., by
rnixlne the minimum unite for lnb
orern from Nlxteen nii«l two-third
cent* to »eventeen nnd n linlf cent*
per hour. By an old ordinnnce the
city pnld alxtcen mid two-thlrdn
ecnta fiml ('oramlnftloncr \V. 11. t
Lynch offered nn (intendment to the
mentiurc to-day IncreaMliiK the rate.
Tlila will apply to atreet Mweepern,
and other Inhorera. About 150 men i
In the atreetn, water and park de
partmenta will he affected.
City improvement work thus far;
tliis Spring has been seriously delayed
by the inability or tlie various depart- I
ment officials to obtain sufficient labor. '
Lack of men to handle the picks,
shovels, carts, etc., has proved as
great a drawback to an early start on |
the 1918 program of paving, grading
and park work as the unfavorable
weather.
What is true of tlie city depart
ments Incidentally, is practically true
of the Harrishurg Railways Company,
the Central Construction and Supply
Company and other firms who have
[Continued on Page 14]
HEALTH BOARD
AT STEELTON IS
SHARPLY RAPPED
Unprintable Conditions Beport
cd to Council by Investigat
ing Committee
Officers of Steelton's Board of
Health were given a poignant tip that
they should get busy at once to rem
! edy existing unsanitary conditions,
| found in certain parts of the borough,
; by the boorugh council last evening!
j In an inspection made by Burgess
[Continued on Page Ll]
! LIGHTNING CAUSES PANIC
WHEN IT HITS GIRLS' HOME
Special to the Telegraph
Reading. Pa., May 9. Lightning
i striking the House of the Good Sliep
; herd, a Catholic institution for wav
ward girls, in Glenside, a suburb, set
the building on flre and caused a panic
ac the height of a severe electrical
I storm here last night.
PREMIER VEXIZELOS LEADS
Athens, May 9.—Premier Venlzelos
who was a candidate for the Chamber,
of deputies for Mytllene, headed the!
poll by a large majority in the elec- 1
Hons held yesterday. Much en- i
thuslasm was displayed by the people 1
over the success of the former
premier.
TORPEDOED LINER
GOES TO BOTTOM;
CREW TAKEN OFF
Cymric, Laden With Munitions,
Sinks This Morning,
Lloyds Report
HAD NO PASSENGERS
Converted Into An Unarmed
Freighter; Supplies Valued
at Many Thousands
By .Associated Press
London. May ».—Lloyds reports
1 thill the Wlitte Star liner Cymric j
sank at !i o'clock this morning.
| All on hoard were saved.
i.ondon dispatches yesterday said ;
; the 13.000-ton steamship Cymric had i
; been torpedoed by a German sub- i
1 marine. A message from Queenstown
i last night said the vessel, torpedoed at I
4 o'clock Monday afternoon, was still |
afloat and was proceeding: to an Irish ;
i port. The Cymric left New York April i
1 2st with a large cargo of war munitions !
| for Liverpool. She had been a 1
freighter for several weeks and carried
Ino passengers. Her crew numbered
| about 100 men, none of whom, so far
I Continued on I'nKc 12.1
Seat Sale For Choral
Society Concerts Opens
Tomorrow Morning at 9
The box office at the Orpheum \
] theater opens to-morrow morning at
9 o'clock 1o the public for the ex- 1
change of tickets and the securing of.
I seats for the concerts of the Harrls
! burg Choral Society on Friday, May
I 1 2, when the Society will render Col- 1
j ridge Taylor's "Atonement." at 8:15
I p. in., assisted by the Philadelphia
j Orchestra and .Miss May Ebrey llolz.
[soprano, Earle Waldo Marshall, tenor,
i Henry Hot/., and the following local
i soloists: Mrs. Roy G. Cox. Mrs. "VVil-
I bur F. Harris, Miss Belle P. Middaugh.
i Miss Catharine Heicher and Miss Mary
. R. Turner.
I The afternoon symphony concert by
I the Philadelphia orchestra, will begin
at 3 o'clock. Persons who have not
' already secured their tickets can se
t cure them from any member of the
j society, Sigler s Music Store, 32 North
Second street, the Central Book Store.
| 325 Market street, or the box office of
the Orpheum Theater.
EXPECT AMICABLE ADJUSTMENT '
. h.l 1 a u, ...ay j.— It ib believe the final confeieuce be
<l coll u..U Funsio.i and General Gbie.on will '
I .cxuoon Aii amicable adjustment i* con
t 1 lIdCH *.Ci.td. '
2u DROWNED WHEN SHIP PARTS
' .liic, Mich., May 9.—Twenty arc be- 1
!lieved to have Lecn di owned when the steamer S. R. Kirby,
broken in two duiing a storm on Lake Superior yesterday. 4
Harrisburg.—President William R. Douglass, of the
Pennsylvania tSate League to-day appointed the*following
umpires: James A. Murphy, formerly of Federal League; '
Jack Walsh, of outhern League; George Mahoney, Sharp
ville, and Fred Marks, Raeding. '
Princeton, N. J., May 9.—Thirty-nine students were
graduated to-day at the one hundred and and fourth com- •
mencement of Princeton Theological Seminary.
London, May 9.—Four more of the leaders of the Irish «
1 revolt have been sentenced to death by the Dublin court- ■
£ martia land shot.
l ' '
J Harrisburg. —Resolutions were passed late this after- -
I noon by the Veterans of Foreign Service in State encamp-
I ment . :re urging the Legislatures and Congress and Presi- '
T den 1 to "place our country in position to avert any
f posai. ility of invasion or attack." Another resolution was '
9 passed recommending that the organization of the Veterans
be made as similar as possible to the G. A. R. Another "
I requests every foreign war veteran to salute any Civil War f
Veteran whenever meeting him.
1 Washington, May 9.—On motion of eSnator Chamber
a lain to d.iy the Senate insisted upon its amendment to the
I > eje tin. the nitrate pioposal adopted by the
c .sue v.aj icfeired to '
coiiici ence.
i'» j , ""Jlj a. — iuwiib within a radius of • !
iv\ciu_, live .laics 01 i-ukc i.iujjaiv.on b wcie bhook this after
' iiuo.i u y cii cjvploMon ul dyuaiulte at tlie plant ol the Atlas | >
i Puvvdci Company wlucli killed at least foui persons and in-
I juieu icoitb. iwo buildings are teported destroyed. First ,
y icpun., hiid between 50 and 10(1 persons killed.
{ MARRIAGE LICENSES . >
Syh'fMfr Klrhrlhrrgfr anil .Sflly *.rritii. city,
f Bert IJM'kf Steclton. and Carrie Viola KUnßramltb. Knola.
I Spencer Alexander and Hattle Child., Meelton.
11 yfri. n v^i.
CITY EDITION
16 PAGES
CROWN PRINCE IS
MAKING VIOLENT
DRIVE ON VERDUN
Most Determined Effort Yet
Made on French Fortress
Now in Progress
POUNDING PERSISTENTLY
Attacks in Great Force Follow
Heavy Bombardments; De
fenders Holding Firm
What seeras to be the most deter
mined effort yet made by the Crown
Prince's forces to break through and
capture Verdun is now in progress.
Heavy guns are persistently pounding
the defenses of the fortresses and
bombs of unprecedented violence are
being followed up by attacks in great
force.
After their initial successes at hrll
304 ( and between Douaumont and Hau
dremont, however, the Germans have
failed to make progress, according to
Paris, which announces the complete
repulse of an assault on hill 304 at "
o'clock this morning. East of the
Meuse the French have again been
counter attacking and have succeeded
in winning back more of the ground
the Germans took in starting their
new drive.
Intense artillery activity east and
southeast of Verdun leads to an ex
pectation that the Germans may have
in mind an attempt to push back the
French right flank here, simultan
eously with the effort to accomplish
a like object with the other flank.
TENTH "OPEN HOI'SK" AT
TECH HIGH FRIDAY
Plans for the tenth "open house"
at the Technical High School are well
under way. and patrons and friends of
the school will be welcomed at the
Walnut street school next Friday
night. At this time tlie entire build
ing will be open for inspection, and
the students of the school will be
working in the different shops of the
' schools.
| One feature will be singing by the
| class glee clubs under the. direction
j of Prof. A. M. Lindsay of the school
faculty. The auditorium of the school
' will be given over io music. Alter -
uately. the school orchestra, Daniel
j Roberts, leader, and the glee clubs
lwM! render selections during the eve
ning.
