' Today's Metal Prices t V A lf iV A' TVr4rVv''X' I 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
load, $7.307.50; spelter, steady, east " ' 7 L S - WEATHER Utah: Showers ;To- jM
St. Louis, $17.50; copper firmer, elec- J night or Wednesday: Colder. H
trolytic, $28.7530.0O. V - " M
" FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. 1
Forty-slxth Year No. 111. Price Five Cents. OGDEN, CITY, UTAH, TUESDAY EVENING, MAY 9, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah. 'H
Three Regiments of Regulars and Militia of I
Three States Ordered to Border for Duty I
: OENERALS SCOTT AND FUNSTON
. REPORT NEED OF MORE TROOPS
; -
r
1 War Department Promptly Issues Orders National Guards-
men of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas to Aid in Patrol-
I ing Border Similar Orders May Be Sent to Other
; .States Over Eight Thousand Men Added to
Funston's Command Outbreak at Big
Bend Complicates Mexican Situation.
Washington, May 9 National
Guardsmen of three states, Arizona.
New Mexico, and Texas, were called
; out by President Wilson today to aid
in protecting the border against Mex
ican raiders.
In addition practically all remain
ing mobile troops ot the regular army
: weie ordered to join the border for-
I ces.
By these orders approximately S.000
additional troops were placed under
', . Major General runston's command.
' Behind the orders is the plain intima-
X I (Ion by administration officials that
; t the whole strength of the National
; Guard will be similarly employed if
necessary.
I i Generals Call .For -T.roops. - -v '
I The orders were issued after a brief '
i conference between President Wilson '
' and Secretary Baker over a joint re-
i port from General's Scott and FunBton
at El Paso. The two officers stated
r that the Glenn Springs raid made it
plain that the border guard must be
materially Increased.
t Secretary Baker has not been ad
t vised whether a new expedition has
4 crossed the border in pursuit of the
raiders, but orders have not been
changed and General Funston is free
) . to follow any hot trail across the line.
Secretary Baker today issued the
following statement regarding the use
J of the militia:
"The outbreak la the Big Bend dis
I i trlct of the Rio Grande has so far
further emphasized the danger of sim
ilar occurrences along our long bord
er that President WilBon has called out
the militia of Arizona, Now Mexico
and Texas and directed them to report
to General Funston who will assign
them to stations along the border for
i patrol duty.
"In addition to that, three addition
al regiments of regular Infantry have
"been directed to proceed to the border
:i and such further arrangements will
J ( ho made as are necessary for the com-
? plete security of the people of tho
H United States against raids of this
1 character."
Secretary Baker said the militia of
the three border states would make
If available about 4,000 men
In addition, three regiments of reg-
$ -ular infantry were today ordered to
tho border. These reglmentb were the
1 Thirtieth infantry, now at Plattsburg,
1 "N Y the Third infantry at Madison
I "barracks, divided between Watertown
5 i and Oswogo, N. Y.f the Twenty-first
Infantry at Vancouver barrncks and
li 1 two battalions of. the Fourteenth ln-
-1 ;t fantry, one at Fort Lawton, near Seat-
f2 H tie, and one at Spokane.
IJt 'The total additional force sent to
'a ,the border under theBe orders lnclud
$W j jing both regulars and militia, is ap-
tgl : I proximately 8,000 men.
'3 i Ordered Out Under Dick Lav.
- x The national guardsmen are ordered
,' fout under the Dick law authorizing
a& ) their service anywhore In the United
( ' Stales but not beyond the bordor. Un-
j? ider that law, every man enrolled in
'the regiments who is physically able,
(X i ,may he forced to serve. If service
5u 'heyond the border was contemplated,
& -v tbe regimonts would be mustered Into
5s .l the federal serrico as volunteers, and
2 'it would be optional with the men
H i whether they would serve.
According to the last reports to the
Wt . -war department, the grand total en-
u-5l ' rrollment of the National Guards of
? Texas, New Merloo and. Arizona in
L - October, 1915, was 29D officers and
2 r 4,670 men. Because of border condl-
?S t -tlonB, officials here feel certain that
" J tho foroe will be increased a third or
GVUr more in the course of the next few
Idays.
Funston In Full Command.
The disposition of tho militia and
of tho regulars along tho bordor is
entirely in General Funston's hands.
While only the guardsmen from the
three states mentioned have actually
been ordered out, the war department
if prepared to send similar orders to
other nearby states, Bhohld tho neoes
islty arise. .
With the dlBpatch of fho four addi
vtional rogular regiments o tho bordor,
the entlro mohllo army of the United
Btat with the fljeceptlpo of fire
troops of cavalry, is plthr mobilized
upon the border, or in Mexico in pur
suit of bandits
Funston to Investigate.
Secretary Baker announced also
that reports that the raid on Glenn
Springs had been organized on the
American, side of the line, according
to Mexican reports, had been tele
graphed to General Funston that he
might investigate.
Secretary Baker said the orders
sending more troops to the border
were made upon the joint recommen
dation of both General Scott and Gen
eral Funston and were without signi
ficance in connection with the Scott
Obregon conferences. .Regarding the
progress of these conferences, Secre
tary Baker saicU.aeneraL.-ScotU.was .
awaiting a communication from Gen
eral Obregon. Further than this, the
secretary refused to discuss the sta
tus of the conferences
Scott and Funston Call for Troops.
General Scott and Funston advised
the war department that more troops
were urgently needed along the bor
der, as a return of the Big Bend raid
ers might be expected. They stated
that the regulars on patrol duty
were insufficient
Secretary Baker described the new
troop movement, as a step merely for
the protection of the border. He said
he had not heard whether the Amer
ican troops In the Big Bend region
had actually crossed the border In
pursuit of the outlaws.
While Secretary Baker's statement
said only two regiments of regulars
had been ordered to the border, or
ders actually were sent to three regi
ments The secretary said an error
had been made in preparation of the
statement.
Seattle, May 9. The second batta
lion of the Fourteenth Infantry at
Fort Lawton, ordered today by Sec
retary Baker to tho border for pa
trol duty, has been making prepara
tions to sail for Alaska to relieve the
First battalion of the same regiment.
Colonel Richard H. Wilson is in com
mand. The first battalion 1b sched
uled to arrive at Foit Lawton in July.
Border Protocol Appproved.
Washington, May 9. Special Agent
Rodgers at Mexico City today tele
graphed the state department that
General Carranza had indicated hi3
approval of the tentative border proto
col which has practically been con
cluded by General Scott and General
Obregon.
Carranza Troops Ordered North.
El Paso, May 9. A message re
ceived at the Mexican consulate here
today from Saltillo says that Governor
Espinosa Moreles, governor of Coa
hulla, has ordered Carranza cavalry
Into the Big Bend country on the Mohi
can aide of the border, to search for
tho bandits who raided Brewster
county, Texas, Friday.
Mexican Consul Garcia said the
forco numbered 1000 men.
oo
FUNSTON TO RETURN
TO HEADQUARTERS
El Paao, May 9. On receipt of news
that President Wilson had ordered out
the Toxab, New Mexico and Arizona
militia, Gen. Funston announced today
that he would return to his headquart
ers at San Antonio just as soon as he
could arrange to do so. Hla depart
ure will be contingent upon arrange
ments ho can make with Gen. Scot,
relieving him from participation in
tho conference with Gen. Obregon.
Gonoral Funston said that it would
bo absolutely necessary for him to re
turn to Fort Sam HouBton, whore he
would have the aid of his staff, to dis
pose of the additional troopB.
Toxas Mllltla Totals 4,200.
It was said here, that tho available
Texan mllltla totals 4,200 men includ
ing infantry cavalry and artillery.
Whero the troops would mobtlizo,
Gon. Funston was unable to state, ho
said, as bo was still working out plans
for their disposal.
Asked if additional troops would ho
i -1 if
COLORED TROOPS GUARD VILLISTA PRISONERS IN MEXICO
J :
Several members of Villa's bandit band that raided Columbus, N. M.f have been captured by the American
forces in Mexico. Three of them, guarded closely by colored American troopers, are shown in this stockad
near the American camp at Namiquipa, JMcxico,
used to release troops already on the
borden-for duty in Mexico, hefefU3ed'
to reply. The American generals had
not heard from General Obregon this
morning as to the time for another
conference.
At tho temporary headquarters here
it was thought that the additional
troops would reach the border in less
than a week, possibly in four or five
days. Being infantry, they can bo en
trained much faster than cavalry
uu
NEW MEXICO FORCES
ARE ALL READY
Santa Fe, N. M . May 9. Nev. Mexi
co's forces, comprising approximately
1.100 men, can be on their way to the
border in 24 hours, according to a
statement this morning by Adjutant
General Harry T. Herring, when in
formed of President Wilson's call for
the National Guard of Texas, New
Mexico and Arizona.
Herring said he had not received
the official call, but that it was not
a surprise.
The state has a regiment of infan
try, a battery of artillery and a field
hospital corps. In addition, it can
draw on tho stalo military institute at
Ro8woll for officers
Govornor McDonald, when told of
tho order, stated that it was in lino
with tho suggestion made in his offer
of state troops to the federal govern
ment last month.
"While I have thought the citizens
of the border counties have exagger
ated their danger, I must admit they
have had a good deal of causo for
uneasiness, which this order will remove."
w
MACHINE GUNS
DO DEADLY MM
French Front Trenches De
fended by New Automatic
Rifles and Highly Perfect
ed Machine Guns.
ENEMY BOMBARDMENT
French Open Fire on German
Infantry, Thinning Ranks
Before Attackers' Advance
Fairly Began.
Parish May 9,' 5:45 a. m. The latest
assaults of the Germans on tho de
fenses of Verdun have served to ac
centuate the high pitch of efficiency
to which tho French have brought the
use of machine guns. Tho French
front line trenches are being defend
ed, by machine guns with comparative
ly few men to serve them, and havo
the addition of new automatic rifles,
two of which are equal to one machine
gun.
The 48-hour preliminary bombard
ment of the Germans is described by
eye witnesses as moro severe than
anything whloh hitherto haa been ex
perienced and it is remarked that the
Germans were justified In belloving
no human being oould ha.vo lived In '
tho zonQsubjccted to this bombard
ment ' '
Nevertheless, th French are such
adopts at constructing underground
shelters that when the Gorman infan
try stepped from the trenches scores
of well placed machlno guns opened
concentrated fire, thinning the ranks
of the attackers before the advance
was fairly begun French officers
state that the losses of tho Germans,
in proportion to tho number engaged,
were as great as any other action of
the war.
Prussians Cut Down.
It Is said that a Prussian division,
which was engaged on -Sunday on the
Ilaudromont wood, Thlaumont farm
Dauaumont line, lost more than fifty
per cent of its effectives.
The battlo shows every sign of con
tinuing. Artillery preparation now
proceeding foreshadows fresh attacks
on both banks of tho Meuse The
fighting may even be extended to tho
Woevre plateau as tho German artil
lery was redoubling its fire there last
night.
It Is generally bolievefl here that
tho Germans have transferred consid
erable forces to Verdun both from
other sections of the western front
and from tho Russian frouL It Is
noted that since tho present offensive
began on Thursday, the Germans have
not ronewed attacks, such as wero
made in the preceding week on other
parts of tho western line, especially
those held by the British.
nn
A1RED0ND0 FOR
MORE VIGILANCE
Ambassador Declares Enemies
of Both Countries Are Seek
ing to Force War by In
citing Raids.
Washington, May 9. After an early
conference with Secretary Lansing to
day, Eliseo Arredondo, General Car
rauzas' ambaBBador said he had told
the secretary, "There Is not an lota
of truth," In reports from tho border
that General Obregon had demanded
tho withdrawal of American troops.
The ambassador denied, also, that
Moxican troops had been disposed
during the El Paso conference so as
to threaten General Pershing's lino of
communication.
Mr. Arredondo nsked that Increased
vigilance be exercised by the Amer
ican border authorities against activi
ties of tho euemi.es of both countries,
who, ho said, wero seeking to force
them into war by bordor raids.
"The de facto government," Mr.
Arredondo said, "has official and ac
curate Information that the attack on
Glenn Springs was oragnlzed in the
United States. It is feared that other
similar movements may occur. I have
laid our information before Secretary
Lansing. We have accurate informa
tion of at least two separate places on
the border where raids aro now be
ing planned by these Interests."
Vlllarlal Principal Instigator.
Mr. Arredondo declared Antonio Vil
lareal wan tho principal Instigator of
the Glenn Springs raid, according to
his information. Villareal recently
vlsltod Nuevo Laredo, he said, in an
effort to foment a mutiny intho Car
ranza garrison. The ambassador de-
scribed the object of these faction
lsts as being in accord iIth the Mag
on propaganda in Mexico, which he
said was a radical organization with
which Villareal had been affiliated
twenty years.
Secretary Lansing promised to dis
cuss that feature with Secretary Ba
ker. Before tho conference at the
state department had concluded, how
ever. Secretary Baker, had .announc
ed the president's decision to send
the additional troops to General Fun
ston. Mr Arredondo was Informed of
these orders.
More Troops Needed.
"I am glad to hear that," he said.
"It is exactly what is needed."
A message from General Scott at
El Paso rached the war department
early today, and Secretary Baker dis
patched a reply immediately. The
contents of neither dispatch was dis
closed. War department officials said the
delay in the El Paso negotiations ap
parently had arisen because of unwill
ingness on the part of General Obre
gon to Blgn the agreement first per
fected by tho Mexican government.
They were of tho opinion that Obre
gon would mako some sort of a
counter proposal whose tenor had not
yet been indicated to General Scott.
Reports from El Paso to tho depart
ment havo not, so far, given officials
reason to fear that there is danger
of a break.
EXPLOSION AT
POWDER WORKS
OCCURS IN MIXING ROOM
Shakes Country Surrounding
Atlas Powder Plant With
Force of an Earthquake.
New York, May 9. At least four
men are reported killed and a hun
dred others Injured In a dynamite ex
plosion in the works of the Atlas
Powder company at Lake Hopatcong,
N. J. Owing to the isolated position
of the plant, It is hard to obtain def
inite Information.
The explosion shook the surround
ing country with the force of an
earthquake, rocking houses on their
foundations, bringing down ceilings,
and breaking windows. Somo reports
placed the dead as high as fifteen.
The explosion occurred at 12:45
o'clock in one of the mixing houBO
where two workmen wore mixing tho
material that forms an important part
of dynamite. How the accident was
caused could not be learned. Accord
ing to those who were on the Bceno
there was a Budden flash and then a
tremendouB crash. Tho force of the
explosion set off dynamite stored in
another shaok forty feet away, al6o
killing Its two occupants.
Most of the lujured were reported
to havo been cut by flying glasB or
bruised by the falling of ceilings in
other buildings. Company officials
refused to dlsouBB the explosion.
Tho plant of the Atlas Powder com
pany is located at Landing, N. J., on
the southern end of Lake Hopatcong.
The dlstriot is thickly dotted with
summer hotel b many of which were
badly nhaken.
FRENCH REPULSE GERMAN ATTACKS I
ON VERDUN FRONT COMPLETELY I
' :r m
r H
" H
M
Forces of Crown Prince Making Most Determined Effort of M
War French Retake Captured Positions Fierce Fight- IH
ing Along Whole French Front Germans Lose M
Posts in the Argonne Turks Prepare for Great M
Drive in Egypt Australians and New H
Zealanders Fighting in France. fl
The White Star liner Cymric, which
was torpedoed yesterday afternoon,
presumably off the Irish coast, sank
this morning. Sho was bound from
New York, for Liverpool with war mu
nitions and a crew of about 100 men,
all of whom were saved, except five
who were killed when the torpedo hit l
the liner.
What seems to be the most deter
mined effort yet made by the crown"
prince's forces to break through and
capture Verdun is now In progress.
After initial sucesses at Hill 304 and
between Douaumont and Haudremont,
the Germans have failed to make pro
gress, according to Paris.
Paris, May 9, 12:16 p. m. After a
violent bombardment of the French
positions on hill 304 on the Yerdun
front, the Germans attempted an ad
vance at 3 o'clock this morning. The
war office announces this afternoon
that the attack was repulsed com
pletely. French counter attacks east
of the Meuse drove the Germans from
certain positions they had captured.
Tho positions recaptured by the
French consists of some parts of
trenches northwest of Thiaumont An
intense bombardment was conducted
by the Germans In the sectors of Eix
and tihatlllon and between Douaumont
and Vaux.
There was grenade fighting at Apre
mont and in the valley of the Fecht.
South of Autreches, near Soissons, the
Germans attempted an attack but
were repulsed.
At Bolante in the Argonne the
French captured two small German
posts, killing all the occupants.
Elsewhere on the front there were
no Important developments.
Turkish War Report.
Berlin, May 9, Wireless to Sayvllle.
The official Turkish report of May
S, says that three British generals, In
addition to General Townshend, the
commanding officer, were captured at
Kut-el-Araara. The statement also
glvo a delayed report of a defeat of
the British in southern Arabia, near
Aden. The statement reads:
"Artillerv duels occurred in the reg
ion of Fefahie (on the Tigris river.)
"In addition to General Townshend,
wo captured at Kut-el-Amara General
Povna, commander of the Sixth In
fantry division; General Dabmack,
commander of the Sixthteenth bri
gade; General Hamilton, commander
of the Seventeenth Brigade; Col. Ev
anB, commander of the Eighteenth
brigade, and an officer named Smith,
commander of artillery. The number
of officers made prisoner Is 551, of
whom half are Europeann and half
Hindus. Of the soldiers captured; 25
per cent are European and the re
mainder Hindus."
"Wo have found up to the present
time forty cannon, twenty machine
gunB and nearly flvo thousand rifles.
Wo al& took a large amount of am
munition, one large ship, ono small
ship, four automobiles and three aero
planes. Arms and ammunitions which
were dropped into tho Tigris are be
ing recovered by us.
"During the last engagements near
Quatia and Dlvar (in Egypt east of
tho Suez canal) wo captured 240 pack
mules, 120 camels, "67 tents, two ma
chlno guns, 100 rifles and ammunition
and food Bupplioa.
"On March 10 a dotachment of tho
onomy attempted on attack on our
position north of Sholkh Osman (near
Aden) and was repulsed. On March
15 and 16 a Turkish dataohmont mado
a aurpriso attack on the position of
the enemy near Amad, northeast of
Sheikh Osman. Tho enomy retlrod
after ft battle of two hours. The loss
es of the enemy were seven officers
and more than 300 mon killed or
wounded. The Turkish ToaBea were
ISO."
Berlin Official Report.
Berlin, May 9, via London, 3:27 p.
m. The oapture of several Fronch
trenoheB on tho Verdun front south
of Haucourt was announced by the .
war office today.
Today's official statement follows:
"In conneotlon with our aucoesa at
Hill 304 we took, south of Terraiton 1
hill, south of Haucourt, several
trenches by storm. Attempts by the : H
enemy to recapture with strong forces : H
the terrain lost on Hill 304, failed. The H
enemy's losses were heavy. 'H
"Other attaqks by the French on the H
east bank of the Meuse in the district H
of Thiaumont farm were equally nn H
successful. The number of French H
taken prisoners there increased to H
three officers and 375 men besides six- IH
teen wounded. Nine machine guns jH
also were taken. H
"On other parts of the western front jH
there ware only a few patrol enter- H
prises which proved successful fdr . H
the Germans." H
Military Officers Promoter. H
Berlin, May 9, wireless to Sayvlle-. , JM
Emperor Francis Joseph has pro- j jH
moted Generals Rohr, Boehm-Ermolli, 1 H
Pflanzer, Baltin, Dankl, Borovich, JM
Tersztyanszky and Puhallo von Brlog, 'H
who are serving in the field; and H
General Friedrich von Georgi, mln- IH
ister of national defense, to the rank , H
of colonel general. Admiral von M
Haus has been appointed great ad- H
lniral. H
Italians Heavy Losers. IH
Berlin, May 9, Wireless to Sayvllle. jH
The Italians have lost 3,000 officers H
since the beginning of the war, ac- H
cording to private statistics compiled M
In Germany. This includes killed, H
wounded, or missing. Of these offl- lH
cers, five were generals. 62 colonels, M
104 majors and 544 captains.
Colon'als Fighting In France. H
London, May 9, 1:30 a. m. The Au- H
stralian and New Zealander troops H
who have taken over a portion of tho jl
fighting line on the British front in H
France, are under the command of H
General William Riddol Blrdwood, H
who was the leader of the colonlalB in M
the Gallipoli campaign. H
The last detachment of the Austral- M
ians left Alexandria, on March 31, and M
were transported across the Medlter- M
ranean to prepared baseB at Marseil- H
les and Havre without a Blngle mis- jl
hap. Several times the transports M
wore warned of submarines laying in M
wait for them, but they managed to H
avoid their undersea enemies. H
The New Zealanders followed the M
Australians to France and the colonl- M
als took their places on the firing line jl
without delay. Tho first day that thev H
occupied the trenches, tho Germans jl
hoisted a banner on which was writ- M
ten, "Welcome Australians." jl
Bombs Drop on Port Said. H
London, May 9, 11:44 a. m. A Reu- H
tor's dispatch from Cairo says that jB
two hostile aeroplanes dropped eight M
bombs on Port Said Monday morning. M
Three civilians were wounded and the H
attackers were driven off by fire M
from anti-aircraft guns. There was M
no property damage. H
GEN. OBREGON I
DENIES RUMOR I
El Paso, May 9. General Obregon H
said there was no truth in reportu H
that he had demanded tho withdraw H
al of tho American troops. H
"If I spent my time denying all the M
inventions of the yellow press," he H
added, "I would have no time left for 1
anything else." .H
On loarning of the now tToops dls. m
positions to be made along tho border, M
Juan -Amador, Mexican sub-secretary H
of foreign affairs said: M
"That is exactly what we want. K H
more troops had been placed along H
tho border there would have been no H
trouble, as tho bandits would have H
boon afraid to cross over." jH
Flood Receives Telegram. H
Chairman Flood of the house for- H
eisn affairs committee aeid that while H
he had no official Information on the H
reported demand of General Obregon H
that tho American troops be with- H
drawn from a telegram he had seen. M
ho was inclined to believe It. M
M
