THE BAMRE DAILY
TIMES
VOL. . XX NO. 47.
BARRE, VERMONT, TUESDAY, MAY 9, 191G.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
WILSON CALLS
OUT MILITIA
FOR BORDER
Situation on Rio Grande Has
Become So Serious That
Arizona, Texas and New
Mexico National Guards
Have Been Ordered to
War Duties Two More
Regiments of Regular In
fantry to Be Sent Also
CROWN
PRINCE
HALTED
FAY CONVICTED
OF CONSPIRACY
TO USE BOMBS
Former Lieutenant in German Army
Was Accused of Attempt to Destroy
Munitions Ships.- Two Others
Convicted with Him.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR
"COMPLETE SECURITY"
Secretary of War Baker Is
sued a Statement at Wash
ington Telling of Action
Decided Upon by Pres.
Wilson to Protect Ameri
cans in Border Towns .
Fear More Mexican Raids
ward German
After Violent Bombard
ment of French Positions
on Hill No. 304 Was Com
pletely Repulsed, Accord
ing to French Statement
Washington, D. C, May 0. President
Wilson has called put the militia of Ari
zona, Texas and New Mexico to deal with
the situation on the Mexican border.
Secretary of War Baker issued the fol
lowing statement to-day:
"The outbreak in the Big Bend dis
trict of the Rio Grande has so further
emphasized the danger of similar occur
rences along our long border that the
president has called out the militia and
directed them- to report to Funston, who
will assign their stations for border pa
trol. Two additional regiments of regu
lar infantry have been directed to the
border and such further arrangements
will be made as necessary for complete
security against raid." .
Secretary Baker says the militia will
amount to 4,000 men. The regulars or
dered to Mexico include the 13th infantry
at Plattsburg and the 3d infantry at Wa-
tertown and Oswego, N. Y.
Secretary Baker said that the order
was made on the representations of Gen
erals Scott and Funston, who wanted
more troops. The action is, he said, with
out significance in connection with the
border conferences.
After a brief cabinet meeting, at which
the Mexican situation was thoroughly
discussed, Secretary Baker announced
that no further movements of militia or
regulars to the border was contemplated.
ward yesterday afternoon into the Big
Bend country, moving toward Glenn
Springs, whore three soldiers lost their
liven ana a little boy was shot to dentil
in me ram dv ma bandits rnuay nignt. TT. ... . , .
The cavalrymen belong to troops A HIS Attempt tO rUSn Jf Or
and B of the 8th cavalry and are under
the comma nd of Mai. George T. Lang
home. Two troops of the 14th cavalry,
commanded by Vol. F. v. (Sibley from
ort Clark, go forward to-day.
('apt. Caspar Cole, with 23 men of
troop A, 14tli cavalry, is now scouting
the river country, where the bandits re
crossed the Rio Grande in their flight
after the. attacks on Glenn Springs and
BoquiIIas.
Private Roscoe Tyree and O. G. Comp
ton, reported missing after the raid, ar-
rived late yesterday afternoon in com
pany with Sergt. Sinyth, commander of
the border patrol, which valiantly fought
oil the bandit..
The number of cavalrymen under pres
ent orders to proceed toward the river
indicates that no effort will be made to
pursue the bandits into Mexico unless
they are observed near the border. In
that event a chase into Mexican terri
tory may be attempted that might carry
the United States forces 50 or more miles
into Coahuila.
Lack of transportation and properly
defended lines of communication pre
elude any extended pursuit into Mexico,
and military men here do not think an
other punitive expedition possible be
cause of lack of cavalry.
The last body of Villa followers re-
crossed the Rio Grande Saturday morn
ing and they are now probably 40 miles
south ot the river.
New York, May 9. The jury which
for ten days heard testimony at the triul
of Robert Fay, a former lieutenant in
the German armyj Walter Schols and
Paul Daeche, charged with conspiracy
to destroy munitions ships through bomb
contrivances returned a verdict of guil-
ty last night against ati of the defend
Intantry Unts.
The jury deliberated on the case for
five hours, and in reaching a verdict
asked for clemency in behalf of Daeche,
who, according to his own statements
and those ot tty and Soholz, was nn
employe of Far and knew little i)f tne
details of the f'nre-bomb plots.
The defendants each are liable to a
maximum sentence of 12 years' impris
onment and the payment of a $10,000
fine. The defendants were found guilty
on two indictments.
CYMRIC
IS LOST;
5 DEAD
White Star Liner Which Has
Been Engaging in Trans
porting Munitions from
the United States for the
Entente Allies Was Torpe
doed as She Was Ap
proaching British Shores
FRENCH REGAINED
Fay heTd the verdict unmcved;
Scholz straightened up in his chair, "VTfl P A SSQRNrJFRCJ
while tears welled in the eves of Daeche.
SOME GROUND Zy ! ? .to the WERE ON THE SHIP
minus, uuv xsmbciib wn-a rricttseu uiiuii
$25,000 bail.
Fay declared nig lawyers would appeal
f rrr iiha vnrtif4 If woi InBraad ihut.
German Effort to Advance Fay was found guilty on one baiiot, The Cymric Left New York
Scnoig on two ballots, while there were
GERMAN DECLARA
TION OF SUBMARINE
PLAN IS ACCEPTED
But United States Notifies Berlin Gov-
ernment That It Cannot Entertain
Condition That Policy Depends
. On Attitude of the United
States to Other Belligerents.
Washington, D. C, May 9. The note
cabled by Secretary Lansmjr to Embas
sador Gerard yesterday for delivery to
tne tseriin foreign office informs the
German government that the United
States accepts its "declaration of its
abandonment" of its former submarine
policy and now relies upon a scrupulous
execution of the altered policy to re
move the principal danger of an interrup
tion of the good relations existing be
tween the two countries.
, With this acceptance is coupled for
mal notice to Germany that the United
States cannot for a moment entertain,
much less discuss, a suggestion that re-
spert by German naval authorities for
the rights of citizens of the United
States on the high seas should in the
slightest degree lie made contingent
upon the conduct of any other govern
ment affecting the rights of neutral
and non-combatants. This is in reply
Near Soissons Was Also eight ballots before an agreement on
, T . . . , Daocho was reached.
1 Ut UOWn rNeXt rOint OI The men convicted last night were in-
inianiry Movement DV me Bronkhorst and Dr. Herbert Kienzie.
n t C The government charged that Fay was
Germans May lie in &eC- the leader in the conspiracy and that
c-u.i. j 1 1 l : j l u .
, - r j -ii AMI I ocnioix ana I'neune mut?'i uiui.
iur VI rji UIIU Uiauuun, Fav w arrentrd in New Jersey
I i i i x . : a : i. i
in a j mi tt T" I np was inn it vq exBfrimenc wiui wwtri'
vv nere inuiery nas jueen fuI fxvofliyM. Daeehe was successful
in fighting extradition from New Jersey
for several months, but finally was given
into the custody of this district.
A date will be set for the trials of
Breitung, Bronkhorst and Kienzie.
Fav was sentenced to-day to' eight
years in the federal penitentiary at At
lanta.
on April 29 with an Enor
mous Cargo and Carried a
Crew of 107 Men She Re
mained Afloat for Some
Hours After Being Hit by
Torpedo
Active
Paris, May 9. After a violent bom
bardmcnt of French positions on hill No
304 on the Verdun front, the Germans
attempted to advance t 3 o'clock this
morning. The French war office an
nounced this afternoon that the attack
was repulsed completely and that French
counter-attacks east of the Meuse drove
the Germans from certain positions thev
had captured. These positions. consisted
of some parts of trenches northwest of
Thwumont.
An intense bombardment was conduct
ed bv the Germans in the sectors of F.ix
andChatil!on and between Douaumont
London, May 9. Lloyds reports that
the White Star liner Cymric, which was
torpedoed Mondav. sank at 3 o clock this
morning. All hands were saved.
- The Cymric was of 13,000 tons and has
been engaged for some time in freigh
service, ihe vessel left .New iork Apr
FROM" RITUAL 29 with an enormous cargo of war muni
tions. The crew numbered about 100
Methodist Committee Would Substitute j men but the steamer carried no passen
ALLEGES FRAUD
IN PURCHASE
OF STONESHED
Consolidated Quarry Co. in Action
Against Lowe-Mercer & Co., Claims
Title Was Given to Individ
uals When Really Bought
By Corporation.
An entry of settled and discontinued
in the case of Daniel Ryan vs. Albert
Carbineau, a caso which was to have been
taken up for trial by jury in Washing
ton county court this forenoon, left the
court without any business. There will
probably not be any more civil cases
tried by jury at this term and because
Mates Attorney rred E. Gleason is ab
sent from the city, being engaged in
Windham county, no state cases will lie
taken up this week. The week will prob
ably be devoted to the hearing of divorce
matters or cases set with the court, un
less some of the cases marked doubtful
prove ripe for trial by jury.
A bill of complaint was filed with the
county clerk this forenoon bv the Con
solidated Quarry Co. against Lowe-Mercer
4. Co., and the Granite .Savings Bank &
Trust Co., the bill alleging fraud on the
part of the stockholders of the Lowe
Mercer corporation.
the bill charges that on March 5, 1912,
the Lowe-Mercer company purchased
property of Maria Bertolli, that the cor
poration was the real purchaser but that
deeds were made only to C. K, Lowe and
Nellie Lowe and D. D. Mercer and wife,
not to the corporation. 1 he orator as
serts that the taking and keeping of the
ltle by Mr. Lowe and wife and Mr. Mer
cer and wife was a fraud upon the cred
itors of the company.
At the September term of Washington
county court the orator secured a judg
ment against the granite company-- for
$1,157.00 and an execution was ordered.
'he orator avers that it ha-s been unable
to collect the amount, nor has it been
ble to sell the land upon which the
xiwe-Mercer stoneshed in Vermont rest-
until it was burned, because of the
ed
title.
TO DROP 'DEVIL'
Word "Sin" Service for Chil
dren's Burial.
Saratoga Springs, May 9. A service
for the burial of children and another for
their reception into the church are pro.
gers.
and aux. J here was grenade fighting poi,cd in , revised . ritual of the Meth
at Apremont and in tne vauey or melodist Episeo
FIVE KILLED
V ijv rvnr ncrnv.
102 SURVIVORS
Fecht. Near Soissons the Germans at
tempted an attack but were repulsed.
hast night s official statement was as
follows
"On the left bank of the Meuse the
bombardment continued with the same
violence against Avocourt wood and the
whole region of hill 304.
A German attack, launched during the
course of the afternoon against our posi
tions at hill 2H7. west of hill 304, was
stopped by our rurtsin of fire and the
fire of our machine guns.
"Un the right oank and in the woevre
our batteries effectively cannonaded en-
opal church, submitted yester
day for action by the general conference,. Atoerica Consui Frost at Queenstown
t rrviuiinijr tuny t-rrKiiiwiucc! iui . .imua
have existed.
The report is the third recently made!
for a change in the form of services pro
vided bv John Wwlev when he institut
ed the rhurch in 1730. The argument
was advanced in yesterday s discussion
that a modification of the wording is nee-
Reports That No Warning Was
Given to the Cymric as She
Was Steaming 138 Miles
West of Fastnet.
Washington. D. C May 9
American
to the concluding statement in the last emy encampments northwest of Kuvesin tp. Drovide that the service for the bap
aim otitiiii tri i iiinui-'iti b
EIGHT AMERICANS
OVERPOWERED
GUARD AND FLED
Men Taken Prisoners in Recent Bandit
Raid on American Territory are Re
ported to Have Brought Back
Three of Their Former
Captors.
El Paso, Tex., May 9. A private mes
sage says that the eight Americans who
were captured by bandits in the recent
Mexican raid overpowered their guards
and have escaped, bringing three Mexi
cans as prfsoners.
Marathon, Tex., May 9. Seven Ameri
can employes at a mine near iioquillas,
on the Mexican side, and Dr. Homer Pow
ers of San Angels, Texas, captives of the
Villa bandits who raided Glenn Spr'uigs
nd Boquillas, were all tsken to the inte-1
rior of Coahuila, but whether they were
killed or held for ransom is not known.
CARRANZA APPROVES
BORDER PROTOCOL
pecial Agent Rodgers at Mexico City
Reports that Agreement of Confer
ence is Satisfactory.
Washington, I). ('., u.y 9. Special
Agent Rodgers at Mexico City reports
that Carranr approves the tentative
b irder protocol.
FUNSTON PREPARES
TO DISTRIBUTE
EXTRA TROOIS
On Receipt of Word from Washington
About President's Order to Militia,
Commander at Border Prepared
to Go to San Antonio.
El Taso, Texas. May 9. Upon word re
ceived of troops Wing ordered out, Gen
eral Funston announced that be wouid
immediately return to San Antonio.
Arrangements for an'Hher conference
between Scott and Oliregon are being
rosde. At Obregon's headquarters it wu
stated that a meeting would lie held lat
er to-day. Confidence was expreei
that an amicable adjustment would be
reached.
CAVALRY TAKE TRAIL.
T Troops Sent After Bandits Eegtged
ia Recent Raid.
- VsralV-B. Tex, May 9. To trnp
cf U 1. 1 1-4 Stale casiry swtir e-.mtlt- cum, a ug?iiva that jwt ry Or-
German note, to the effect that while
submarine commanders had been or
dercd to sink no peaceful freight or pas
senger carrying Khips without warning
or without safety for passengers and
crew, the German government' would re
serve to itself complete liberty of de
cision unless the united Mates Mas
successful in its efforts to break the
British blockade.
Secretary Lansing issued a statement
last night saying that the greater part
of Germany's answer to the demand of
the United States was devoted to mat
ters which the American government
could not discuss with the Berlin govern
ment, but he considered Germany had
"yielded to our representation" and that
we "can have no reason to quarrel with
her" so long as the altered policy is
lived up to.
The text of the note to Germany fol
lows :
Text of Note.
The note of the imperial German gov
ernment under date of May 4. 1910, bus
received careful consideration by the
government of the L'nited States. It
is especially' noted, as indicating the
purpose of the imperial government as to
the future, that it "is prepared to dj
its utmost to confine the operation of
the war for the rest of its dutation to
the fighting forces of the belligerents"
andn that it is determined to impose
upon all its commanders at wa the limi
tations of the recognized rub s of inter
national law upon which the government
of the Inited States has mt-ihted.
"Throughout the months which have
elapsed since the imperial government an
nounced on February 4, 1010. its miIhim
rine policy, now happily abandoned, the
government of the United States bis
been constantly guid-d and restrained
by motives of friendship in its patient
efforts to bring to an amicable settle
ment the critical question arming from
that policy. Accepting the imperial
government's declaration of its alHuid-m-mcM
of the policy which lias so seriou-iv
menaced the good relations between tie
two countries, the government of the
United States will rely upon a ecrup-
uloui execution henceforth f the now
altered policy of the imperial govern
ment surii as will remove the principal
danger to an interruption of the g.d
relations exit-ting betwet-n the l'nited
States and Germany.
"The government of the Unite.! States
feel it n-eessary to state that it take
it for granted that the imperial tiernian
government iK-x-a not intend to imply
that the maintenance of its newly an
nounced pi-licy is in any way continent
upon the conr-e of riii of dininutic
relations between the government of
the United Mate and any other bellig
erent, notwithstanding the fct that cer
tain pasag"s in t!e imerial goem
ment's note of the fourth inMant mig'it
appear tc mm-iitiw of tht con
struction. In e.r-ler. iewr, t.i avoid
any rdile misun rMand nz U:e gov
ernment of the I mte-l St!e not fie
the 1 in penal government tht it m-t
foe a mmeBt rntertiin. mm-h le dj
SEVERAL TRENCHES
yERE CAPTURED
BY GERMANS
essary to secure consistency of usage and Consul Frost at Oueenstown reported to
greater clearness and brevity-. Opposi-U. . . Hpnartmnt in Aav tw t)lt,
tion was based on the ground that the 1
language of the present ritual had been Cymric was torpedoed Monday afternoon
made sacred by continued use. lat 4 o clock 13S mile west of Fastnet
The new form outlined by the commit- without wttrnimr and sank at 3 o'clock
this morning. Five of the crew of 107
were killed by the explosion. The stir
vivors will land at Bantry,
Berlin War Office Also Claims That Over
1,300 French Were Taken Prisoners
in Great Gain on Hill No.
304. '
Berlin, May 9. The capture of several
French trenches on the Verdun front
south of Haucourt was announced by the
war office to-day.
Berlin s statement yesterday declared
that the operations west of the Meuse
during recent days have been carried out
principally bv Pomeranian troops. "Not
withstanding the tenacious defense and
furious counter-attacks of the enemv,
the Germans took an entire system of
trenches on the northern slope of hill
304. The German lines reached the top
of the height. The enemy suffered ex
traordinarily heavy losses, so that only
40 unwounded officers and 1,2W soldiers
were captured by us.
"East of the Meuse, on both sides of
Thiaumont farm, there was bitter fight
ing. The enemy, along with other troops
employed negroes in the fighting east of
the farm. The attack broke flown and
3fKl nien were made prisoners. In the
engsgements mentioned fresh French
troops were recognized."
AEROPLANES DRIVEN OFF
After They Had Delivered Bombs on
Port Said.
Ivondnn. May 9. A Reuter's dispatch
savs that two hostile aeroplanes bom
harded Port Said on Monday. Three
civiluns were wounded. The attackers
were driven off by anti-aircraft gun
and there was no property damage.
ITALIANS LOST
3.000 OFFICERS
List of Dead, Wounded or Missing Con
tains Five Generals, According to
German Compilation.
Berlin, via wireless. May 9. The Ital
ians have bt 3.""0 officer since the be
ginning of the mar, according to private
statistics compiled in Germany. This in
cludes killed, wounded or missing. Five
ere generals, 62 colonels, 14 majors.
and .44 captain.
tism of infants and for ordination shall
be greatly shortened. The burial service
would be modified bv the insertion of ad
ditional scriptural selections for the pur
poses of giving fuller expression of the
Christian hope as found in the New Tes
tament. In the marriage ceremony it is
provided that when the ring is used the
words "and with all my worldly goods I
thee endow" shall be omitted, as the
ceremony itself implies common owner
ship of property.
It is Iso proposed that the word "dev
il" shall be stricken from passage t. where
it occurs and that the word "sin" shall be
substituted. The phrase
shall sound and the dead be raised
would be eliminated on the ground that
it means the resurrect inn.of the spirit and
not of the body. The same reason is ad
vanced for substituting in the buria
service the 23d Pswlm for the 30th Psalm
Arguing that a bishop may not have
reached the zenith of his powers at th
age of 73, the present legal age for re
tirement, ITianeellor Dav of Syracuse
university offered a resolution to repea
the rule adopted at the last conference
Dr. Day gave instances of great works by
men at P0, and repudiated the so-calle
Osier theory.
There was hot opposition by severs
delegates to Dr. Day's proposal. Dr. Ed
gar Blake of New Hampshire declared
that under the old system of retiring
bishops when they had become infirm
many embarrassing situations were met
Action on the resolution was indefinitely
postponed by a isrge majority.
NO AMERICANS ABOARD.
on
WILSON FLAYS
BRAN DEIS' FOES
Cymric Crew Were Brought Over
Her in Last Trip.
New York, May 0. The Cymric left
New York April 20 with a osrgo of muni
tions and war supplies, including 8.000
eases of cartridges. She was command
ed by Capt. F. E. Beadnell and had a
crew of over 100 men. She carried no
the trumpet passengers.
J. .1. MacPherson. British vice consul
ncre in charge ot shipping, said that as
far as he knew there were no Americans
among the crew. The Cymric, he said,
arrived here with a crew of 110 men.
Twelve deserted and eight were taken
on. None of those taken on was an
American citizen, Mr. MacPherson addetk
In addition to the crew, five distressed
British seamen, who had been ill here,
were on the steamer.
The manifest of the Cymric discloses
that she had on board 1U1 cases of rilles
and other firearms, fifK) cases of primers,
11.049 cases of empty shells, R.900 cases
of cartridges, 40 cases of parts of aero
planes, 400 reels of barbed wire, 81 cases
of tractors and parts, 20 cases of jnin
parts, six cases of bayonets, 220 cases
of fuse head and 6,720 cases of fuses.
According to the White Star line of
ficials, the Cymric was in their service,
denial being made that she had beTi
taken over by the British government.
The Cymric was not armed, they said.
She was due in Liverpool yesterday. She
discontinued carrying passengers some
time ago, it was said.
Declares They Hat Nominee Because
He Refused to Promote Their
Selfish Interests.
man naval authorities for the riglits of
citiren of the United State upon the
f.'gh sew should in any way or in the
!.i.-ht-t degree be made cr-nt 'nger.t upon
the coedmt of any other fm ernment
iTeetjtig the right of neutrals and sen--mbstots.
Kep'rih;l;ty in suck
matter i inj'e, nH joint; at solute.
not rt'tUM."
Washington, May 9. President Wil
son's letter giving hi reason for nn
inating Louis D. Brandeia for the su
preme court and urging confirmation
was read to the Senate judicial commit
tee yesterday by Chairman CuJberson
but no vote was taken, a bad been ex
pected, and no time was fixed for one.
Fresident ilson characterized tne
charges against his nominee as "in
trinsieally incredible to anyone who real
ly knows Mr. Brandcis," nd declared
they "proceeded for the most part from
tiioe who hatl Mr. Brandris because
be had refused tn lie serviceable to them
in promotion, of their own selfish inter
est and from ioom who h been pre
judiced and misled. The president an
nounced t!it the "propaganda in tbis
matter bas been er extraordinary an-l
very distressing to those who Ioe fair
nei and value the d.gnity of a great
j proteion.
The president wrote that he believe
the report "i Me ':b committee whiea
invrtigated the Bran-let nrnniiutKn
y 1 already uie it pljin that th-e-iarye
were unfounded. The pre-idei t j
characterized Mr. Brandeia as a ""friend
The Consolidated Quarrv Co. pravs
that a decree be made ordering the de
fendants to deed said property to the
Lowe-Mercer company or to the orator.
I he bill also seeks to have a mortgage
held by the Granite Savings bank on the
land made void, alleging that the mort
gage is a fraud and was made for the
purpose of fraud. B. A. Hoar is attorney
for the Consolidated Quarry Go.
DIDN'T LIVE
TO BE TRIED
John Elliott, Slayer of Two
at Thompson, Conn., Died
of Self-inflicted Wound
HE HAD SHOT HIMSELF
BEFORE HIS RREST
Elliott Was screed with!
Killing Syy ttis and Her
Fathe jorge Pettis
WOMAN UNDER ARREST.
Charged with Causing Death of Man by
Poisoning.
Hartford. Conn., May 9. Mrs. Mary L.
Archer Gilligan, proprietor of the Archer
house for elderly people in Windsor, six
miles from here, was arrested by the
state police last night on a charge ut
murder. She is accused of having caused
the death by poisoning of Franklin K.
Andrews, an inmate, who died on May
30, 1914. from gastric ulcers, according
to the certificate of death signed by Dr.
H. F. King of Windsor, attending physi
cian, and medical examiner of the town
)f Windsor.
The body of Andrews was disinterred
in the ( bestershire cemetery a
week ago by direction of Coroner Eli
Mix and the autopsy Was performed by
Dr. Arthur ,1. Wolf of this city. The
body of another former inmate has elo
been examined and Dr. Wolf states ihil
death was caused bv poison.
The state police have been working on
this case more than a year and they ex
pressed the opinion that out of 48 deaths
at the home in five years probably i!'t
have been the result of violence.
Brooklyn, Conn., May 9. John Elliott,
the farm hand of Thompson who was
captured last Thursday after a two days'
search by a posse, who sought him as the
murderer of Miss Sybil Pettis and her
father, George Pettis, died to-day in the
county jail. An examination by a phy
sician showed that Elliott had attempted
suicide by shooting before he was placed
under arrest.
Elliott was hiding under a carriage
lied at Brandy Hill and was taken after
brief struggle, although he had two
guns, one strapped on each side of his
body, and two automatic revolvers, an
fully loaded. He didn't have time to
draw a weapon but fought with his fists
nd feet. W hen hlliott was taken to
jail and examined by a physician it was
iscovered that his skull was fractured
and it was said then that he. would not
ive to stand trial.
The shooting of Miss Pettis and her
father occurred Tuesday, May 2, at the
'ettis home. Mrs. Pettis, a witness of
the double killing, said Elliott shot her
hu-sband and then her daughter, with
horn he was infatuated. When Mrs.
'ettis pleaded that her life be spared.
Elliott, she said, expressed sorrow for
is act. Friends of Miss Pettis said she
had shown the farm hand much kindness
but never had encouraged bis attentions.
Elliott for some time had been employed
at the Pettis home.
k .
LARGE GAIN MADE
IN K. OF C. MEMBERS
State Secretary's Report at .St. Albans
Convention Was Considered Very Sat
isfactory, As Was the Report
of the Treasurer. '
GIVEN LICENSE TRANSFER.
John B. Cassellini's Application Was Not
Protested.
The board of license commissioners
met in the council chamber at city hall
this morning at 9 o'clock to consider pro
tests against the transfer of John B. Cas
sellini's first class liquor license from
303 North Main street, to No. 35, in the
Northern hotel, on the same thorough
fare. As no one appeared at the ap
pointed hour the applicant was grunted
permission to transfer.
Ten licenses of the first and second
lass are now in operation in Bnrre. One
icensee, .1. .1. tavliue. who was granted
first class license at 303 North Main
street, has
transfer.
not applied, as yet, for a
ST0WE PHYSICIAN INJURED.
HAD NO GUNS.
White Star line Says Cymric Was Not in
British Admiralty Service.
New York. May 9. The White Stsr
line denies that the Cymric was in the
service of the British admiralty but as
sert that the ship wa operated solely
on account of its ow ners. The line claim
she carried no guns and was simply a
merchant steamer carrying cargo.
Dr. J. C. Morgan Got Broken Hip When
Horse Shied, at Automobile.
Stowe. May 0. - Dr. ,T. C. Morgan, a
prominent physician of this village, was
seriously injured yesterday afternoon
when thrown from hia carriage, lie was
driving on Maple street when the horse
shied suddenly at an automobile, the
carriage striking a hydrant. Dr. Mor
gan was dragged over the dashboard and
thrown to the ground with such violence
that one hip was badly fractured. He
was taken to the Fanny Allen hospital.
St. Albans, May 9. At 8 o'clock this
mornin the Knights of Columbus in an
nual state convention in this city, met
at Knights of Columbus hall on North
Main street and marched in a body to
St. Mary's church, where mass was cel
ebrated bv Rev. W. H. Cassadv of St.
Marv's cathedral. Buriinarton. The ser
mon was preached by the Rev. .1. M.
Kennedy of Hard wick. By request the
choir of the church repeated the Easter
music, with full orchestra accompani
ment. Kt. Rev. ,f. .1. Rice of Burlington,
bishop of the Burlington diocese, gave
a short address.- The convention proper
opened at the city hall at 10:30 o'clock.
The state secretary's report showed a
gain of 243 in membership, one of the
largest, gains in the history of the or
der in this state. The membership is
composed of 741 insurance; 1,211 asso
ciate, making a total of 1,952. The or
der was reported in healthy financial
standing with a balance of .$1,408.85 on
hand May 1. Although the total in
crease of "the supreme council is nearly
six per cent, the increase in the Ver
mont is 14 per cent.
This afternoon at 2:30 o'clock auto
mobiles were in readiness to take tho
visiting ladies on a sight-seeing tour.
This evening a ball will be held at the
city hall, closing the events.
In a duck pin matoh held on Dowling's
alleys vesterdav afternoon between De-
Goesbriand council of Burlington and St.
Albans council of this city, the former
won by 32 points.
A class of " received the third degree
at a session held in city hall last even
ing and the women ofSt. Mary's par-ir-h
served a banquet in Eagle's hall st
the close. Th ise upon whom the third
dciTee was conferred were those candi-
(iiiu-K tlint received the second degree
Sunday, toeether with a few from oth.'i
eotinciss'of the state. At the close of
the banquet speeches were made.
And
THROWN UNDER AUTO.
20 BELIEVED DROWNED.
On
Steamer H. R. Kirby Lost in Lake
Superior.
Sault Ste. Marie. Mich., May 9. The
steamer H. R. Kirhv of Detroit wa lost
o!T Eagle Harbor in like Superior Mou
sy during a terrific storm, and the crer.-
of 20 is belieed to bae b.-en drowned.
Rutland Youth, Riding Bicycle, Was Se
Severely Hurt.
Rutland. May ft. Llovd E. Aldrich. .1
Rutland high school student, was badly
injured yesterday when bis motorcycle
collided with .John W. Illanehard's Ford
car, corner of North street and Lincoln
avenue. Aldrich was thrown under the
machine. The force of the collision was
sufficient to stop the auto's enpine. The
hf-'s injuries were so severe he a.
taken to the hospital.
NO BODY FOUND.
By Diver Who Went Into Connecticut
River in Search.
Hinsdale. N. n.. May 9. Twenty
more men made another fruitless sear. i
for Mis t.Mdy Stearns, daughter ut
Mr. and Mrs. Willi I). St rtis. w ho di-
ajpcreil Friday afternoon.
. i . . .. - i . . i .i i - .
Abotit 40,000 Garment Workers Are Or- , rt . . ...
dered Out. !,,, rivrr ,;t (,in, ., r...n f ,;,
R.-heter. N. V.. Mav 9. The Amal ! girl.
gasnated lothing Worker of America j A re.ide.it ' t'i. p'a.-e h ...n-tilt-'
their biennial contention declared a medium. snl ts-tn tie -ri nun-'
CHICAGO STRIKE ORDERED
FOUR MORE EXECUTIONS
Nineteen Others Had Sentencef
Commuted to Imprisonment.
London. Mav 9. Four more of the
leaders in the Irish revolt have been sen
tence:) to death bv the Dublin court
martial and executed,, according to on
orliciHl statement issued last night.
Thev were Cornelius Colbert. Edmund
Kent. '.Michael Mallon and J. .1. Huston.
Nineteen others concerned in the in
surrection were sentenced to death, but
the sentence was commuted to various
terms of penal servitude. On three oth
ers, prison terms were imposed. Two
were acquitted.
,Thc court martial which have been try
ing the Sinn Feiner have completed their
work. All government employes m ire
land are ordered to report their recent
movements, a minor officials are known
to have been Sinn Fein member.
WILL CONDUCT OWN DEFENSE.
Casement's First Hearing Will Occur on
Wednesday.
London. May P. Roger Casement's
tir-t hearinc will l-e held Wednesday be
fore a h.Ii-c magistrate, with tSe real
tritl later before a panel of judges of
Cie hij;!i court. It 1 understood tfS
Casement is t conilini nis own oeTrnsc.
FIRE AT REVERE BEACH.
jTwo
Houses and Several Amusement
Places Burned.
!;cer. Ma-.. Mav !. Two h'te!s e,
rai uniii'rnptit i-ls'-e were lirnet
strike in tbieif. clothing markets affevt- lie-.ame tTc.tcl. that he jum"I into tLe to -day.
all ;ut n;a and lover of It riU' lc 4",000 workers.
river aud wis drowned.
Helj.
tS a ! e-tmiated t eT.VO"".
fiom Lynn and Cbe!ea ws ituiei,
