y
Probably tomorrow; ^37/ k . ^ L /Lf ^/"\ X-lf "From Press to Home
somewhat lower temperature tumor- I / C^BkfPi^p a y H Y( >
row; irentle m H 1 Br^m H^W V'WW'VrWY ^T^mj ^T^Wr fl/lv WltLi? lie ff ,?
Temperature for hours I 1^11 1 ^ | ' B I 1/ | I I VII | I A | | V^kM *"*
n.a p.m.: Hiphest, 2 p.m. I 1 I |r ^P Br V CSE?
today; lowest, 33, at 7 a.m. todaj-. 17 B W ^^__Z M K 1 H H
I 1 " ? I | J * Iwara Wet Clrenlatlom, Heath ?f October.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 14. V- -.^ w/ '?> Dally Anrate, TAMli liltaj. HML
No. 29,508. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1916.?EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
- ???-?? i ?? -
MONASTIR VICTORY
A TEUTON DEBACLE,
REPORT TO LONDON;
i
Fleeing Germans and Bulgars
Are Being Closely Pressed
by Entente Forces. i
LION'S SHARE OF CREDIT j
GIVEN TO SERBIAN ARMY !
Berlin Reports That First German '>
Troops Have Arrived to Help ]
Stem Advance of Allies
Under Sarrail. :
Bj the AKKooiatetl Ptp?s.
LONDON", November 20, 11:55 '
a.m.?The retreat of the GermanoBulgarian
force from Monastir in
the direction of Prilep is a debacle, j1
says a dispatch to the Wireless i
Press from Rome today. The en-:
tente troops are pursuing the flee-1
ing foe and have occupied villages ,
north of Monastir, taking prisoners
as they advanced, the dispatch
adds.
The Serbians, according to these
advices, are delaying entering
Monastir because of the fire and
explosions which have virtually
destroyed the city, from which
the population has fled.
' 1
(Importance Chiefly Political. '
The capture of Monastir by "Gen. Sar- i
rail's army in Macedonia is looked (
upon by entente military writers as of {
notable political importance, but opin- c
ion appears to be divided as to whether
it will be followed by military develop- ;
ments of sweeping- character. t
Events of the next day or two are
expected to show whether the captors
of the Macedonian capital will require
a period of rest before starting: a new
advance or whether the pursuit of the
retreating Germano-Bulgarian force is
to be pressed, despite adverse weather
eouditions. In some quarters an ad- j
vnnce by the entente forces along the '
load to Prilep is forecasted, to.be ?pl- ,
lowed by a thrust from PrM^p'towgtd ;
Ne got in on the Vnrdar, with the object !
of outflanking the Bulgarians and I
opening up the frontier passes north- j
west of Saloniki.
Chief Credit Given Serbs.
The Serbians are given the lion's
share of honor by the morning papers
in discussing, the fall of Monastir. The
capture of Hill 1212 by the Serbians, i
and their rapid advance to hill 1278, '
threatening the Bulgarians' only avenue
of retreat along the Prilep road, is
considered the main factor in forcing
the hast)- evacuation of the city. (
From Negotin military experts claim .
mat iw oui?nuaii j)us:uOn,S east OT i
the Cerna could be outflanked and the
frontier pusses opened to the allied ! j
forces. The fall of .Monastir is consid- .
cred as clearly showing the superiority 1 1
of the allies over the German - Bulgar !1
forces in view of the formidable de- i S
lenses which had been created around i
the city. I ^
Allies Completely Victorious. < i
i,
PARIS, November 20, 3:25 p.m.?Allied
troops have been completely vie- {
torious on the Macedonian front from 1
. the river Cerna to Lake Presba, ac- <
cording to announcement made by the
French war office this afternoon. This ?
success reached its culmination yes- 1
lerday with the entrance of French {
cavalry into Monastir at 8:30 in the
morning. During this same day French !
troops moved out to the north of (
Monastir and captured Hill No. 821 j
and other villages in this vicinity. They <
also took 620 prisoners and a consider- \
able quantity of war material. j
The official announcement says: 1
"The fighting, which has been going
on since November 10 along the front
of the army in the Orient from the
river Cerna to Lake Presba, has como
to an end with a complete victory for *
the allied troops. ;
"The day of November 19 saw the ,
final result of the vast enveloping maneuver
of the German and Bulgarian <
forces which were defending the re- i
gion of Monastir. i
Serbs Follow Up Success.
"On the evening of November IS !
Serbian forces, continuing their victo- i
rious offensive, occupied the village of j (
Grunishte, east of the Cerna. The same 1
night Yarashok, in the bend of the 1
river, fell into the hands of Franco- ,
Serbian troops. Following up their 1
uuccess with energy during the night of
the 18-19ih our allies, after a bril- 1
liant engagement took possession of <
Hill No. 1378 and at daybreak of No- 1
vember 19 they drove the enemy out of <
Makovo. 1
"During the day of the 19th several '
lines of ttulgarian trenches located in '
the vicinity of Dobromir were occupied |
by Serbian forces. This determined ad
vance movement compelled the Ger- !
mano-Iiulgarians to evacuate the last 3
of their positions protecting Monastir. 1
"French cavalry, pursuing closely the
rear guard of the enemy, entered Monastir
November 19 at X:3'? o'clock in the
. morning. They were followed by a 1
column of Franco-Russian infantry.
"During the day our troops working j
out directly north of Monastir took pos- '
session, successively, of hill No. 821 J
and the village of Kirkiina (two miles 1 north
of Monastir), and they reached ' ;
the outskirts of Karaman and Orizar i'
t r#nnf>rt i VP I V foil r* milou to lha north- i
east and two miles to the north of
Monastir). These towns were at once
attacked, and the pursuit of the enemy
Is continuing without respite. Hi* hundred
and twenty prisoners and a considerable
quantity of war materlul remained
in our hands."
Germans Are Reinforced.
BERLIN, November 20. by wireless to 3
Sayvilie.?New tJernian formations have 1
readied the Macedonian front, it is an- '
nounced officially. The new positions !
north of Monastir were taken up without
pressure from the allies. Serbian i
L advances in the Moglenica region were '
f refrained.
The announcement follows: "The new ;
k
positions north of Monastir were occupied
without pressure from the enemy. New
German forces have arrived at the fighting:
zone.
"On the Mogleniea front Serbian advances
near Rahovo and Tusin were repulsed
by the Bulgarians.*'
That Monastir had been abandoned by
the German and Bulgarian forces was announced
in the official statement issued
at the German army headquarters yesterday.
The Teutons and Bulgars. it was
announced, took positions to the north
of the southern Serbian town after the <
forces of the entente allies stormed *
height No. 1212, to the northeast of
Chegel.
Prepared for Evacuation.
"Monastir's evacuation by the Germans
and Bulgars," says the Overseas
News Agency, "was a measure which
had been prepared for several days |
by the chief command of the central
allies. The Serbians had crossed the
River Cema and, advancing northward
with superior forces, had reached the
height north of Chegel after engage- f
inents in which the tide of battle flue- r
tuated and during which Gen. Otto von ^
Rulow, at the head of the German riflemen.
stormed and recaptured a height. t
"The height taken by the Serbians t
was upon the same level as Monastir. (
30 that the Serbians were able to observe
the German-Bulgarian positions '
and were able to shell them from the ?
flanks. Simultaneously strong French i
forces advanced upon the position on the ?
Monastir plain. The maintenance with
leavy sacrifices of a position without a
my importance as regarded the general
strategical situation would not 5
lave been justifiable. Therefore the
evacuation of Monastir was a matter of i c
ourse, as it was lacking in military 1
mportance. a
Still Under German Guns. J
"The Germans and Bulgarians occu- c
pied positions on the hills north of j
Monastir, from which they dominate ,
the basin of the Cerna. Monastir is a
under the range of our guns, which
nea 11 s that its position is insecure. ! c
"The occupation of Monastir does not a
In the least change the strategical *
situation in the Balkans. Gen. Sarrail's 11
task, which was to accomplish a junc- c
tion with the Russo-Rumanian army a
advancing from Dobrudja, has failed, ^
and now never can be accomplished. *
Lente would have been complied with if
3en. Sarrail had advanced on his east- j"
srn flnak. but as he was unable to ?
break up the Bulgarian pressure in *
this sector, his principal attacks were *
carried out more and more to the west- *"
ward. Although he thus obtained minor
local successes, he thereby made
:>pen avowal of the fact that the original
plan for joining hands with the a
Russo-Rumanian armies had been en- ij
tfrely abandoned."
To Be Serbian Capital. j1
u
SALON1KI, November 19, via Athens to ^
l^ondon, November 20.?The temporary
*apital of Serbia will be immediately es- r
ablished at Monastir. Considerable v
'orces of Serbians are with the entente P
illied troops who have occupied that *
own. "
MEXICAN PARLEY i
ON FINAL PHASE I
? ?^d
i?
American Commissioners Mak- JJ
ing Last Effort to Reaoh I
an Agreement. j!
li
UAV ADAIUnniU PARiCCDCIUPC t
fin? nunivwviv win ununvu ?
Secretaries Lansing and Baker today
leclined to discuss the Mexican question a
n any phase and referred all inquirers p
0 Secretary Lane, chairman of the c
American delegation to the Joint corn- g
nission, which is to resume the sessions j n
it Atlantic City this afternoon. During t
secretary Lane's visit to this city isatur- c
lay and yesterday he received President t
iVilson's complete approval of his course
n the negotiations with the Mexican f
commissioners, and returned to Atlantic t
IMty with instructions to bring the ses- t
jions of the commission to an early con- t
elusion. t
Although officials here are hopeful that t
1 satisfactory agreement may yet be 1
eached. it Is admitted that the joint 8
conference is entering on its final phase, i
Lgreement or no agreement. \
If the commissioners find it impossible j
:o formulate a plan, the view* taken here [
3 that the prospect of settling border j j
lisputes through diplomacy will be re- ^
note. Officials make no prediction, how- j
sver, as to what steps the Washington j
fovernment may find it necessary to take j I
n that event to insure the safety of ;
x?rder towns and ranches.
Look ijor Withdrawal of Troops.
The American commissioners have
ibout abandoned the effort to frame an
lgreement satisfactory to the Mexicans a
in every detail, and will renew* their i
>riginal suggestion, that each govern- a
Tlpnf natrftl it? n\rn clHo /.# lln? l?
lependently, but with the understanding
that American troops will pursue ^
into Mexico on a hot trail any bandits p
who attack border towns. Coupled r
with that suggestion presumably was s
the statement that Gen. Pershing's
forces would be withdrawn gradually ^
from Mexico and that no large force t
would be sent across the line again
jnless the de facto government permit- B
ted raiders to assemble in such force in ?
Mexico that a strong expedition was n
necessary to prevent a serious attack. u
Army officials believe that the Ameri- j
i-un expeditionary force soon will be *
moving toward the border, regardless
if the turn events may take at Atlantic
City. In its present position, many 2
officers hold, the expedition would be c
t>f no strategic value should general t
hostilities break out, while the long t
line of communication with the advance ?
bases is a constant source of danger Q
und more or less vulnerable at several e
points. j
Official advices from the border today j
indicated that all of the Americans at r
i'arral had made their escape, and will ^
soon arrive in N'ogales. Ariz.
Conference Is Delayed.
ATLANTIC CITV. X. J.. November 20.
?Resumption of the conferences of the j
Meat lean-American Joint commission j
was delayed today by the failure of j
Secretary of Interior Lane, chairman of i
the American commission, to arrive this J
forenoon from Washington. He was ex- ,
pected, however, at 3 o'clock this afternoon.
Chicagoani Raise Price of Beer.
CHICAOO. November 20.?Practically .
ill of the bars in the downtown district
of Chicago today raised the price of
beer by serving it in glasses two-thirds
the size of those used heretofore. A
number of downtown lunchrooms also
announced an increase of 5 cents each
on such orders as ham and eggs, bacon
and eggs and small steaks, while pies
formerly cut into live sections hereafter
are to be divld^l into six.
PRESIDENT FACE
SERIOUS PROBLEMS
Solution Being Sought for
Highly Important International
Questions.
J-BOAT WARFARE VITAL
President Wilson and Secretary Landing
have ahead of them during the
lext few months many serious and
ritally important international quesions
which they are already seeking
o bring to a conclusion speedily. The
iragging along of these complicated
>roblems is not calculated to bring
ibout as satisfactory a feeling: as is
iesirable. Therefore the President and
dr. Ijansing are endeavoring to bring
iboutdefinite settlement.
The German submarine question is
ftill the most acute of all^thoae to be
:onsidered. In spite of what the adninistration,
believed to have been
igreements reached with Germany that
vould end . the harassing features of
hese questions, there are five critical
rases of alleged violation of Germany's
>romises to this government. One involves
the loss of" five American lives
ind two others of American ships.
The German submarine warfare is
onstantly presenting phases that are
amoving and that add to the irritaion
that has long been felt over Germany
s apparent forgetfulness of what
onstitutes international regulations
nd law. The rules applying to waning
to vessels before sinking and the
afety of passengers are deemed absoutely
inadequate now, and are easily
nfringed when excuses are so fruitful
ater on. The American attitude is op osed
to technicalities being offered
ollowing repeated torpedoing of vesels
and the endangering of human
ives.
Hopes to Starve England.
The fear is beginning to be felt in
dministration circles that Berlin's ai^n
s to skate along the edge of trouble
nth the United states, without bringng
it about, in the meantime contining
her submarine operations pending
ier completion of a great fle^t of subnarines
ultimately designed to suround
and starve Great Britain. Berlin
irill not easily yield to a change in
olicy as to submarines at the present
ime, it is believed. As her submarine
eet grows in strength and imporance
she will, it is feared, grow less
nd less considerate of the wishes and
emands of the United States. She will
Isk a break in relations to accomplish
er purpose of starving England.
The relations of the administration
rith the allies are not so dangerous,
>ut persistently troublesome and naging.
England's encroachments upon
Lmerican interests are not pleasing
nd will be stepped it possible. The
Hied restrictions on and interference
rtth* neutral trade ure rather num&p
us ana serious. Tftd oldaat is 8ti|'
ind's attempted blockade, about which
here haft been much correspondence.
England virtually dictates the amount
f supplies that shall go into Holland,
iorway, Sweden and Denmark. The
ensorship of mails has been exceedigly
vexatious, but has not been setled.
The British attitude on the blackIst
proposition is well known. Eng&nd
claims the right to prevent her
wn subjects dealing with firms in
his country or elsewhere that give aid
nd comfort to the enemy.
Restriction Hurts Business.
To American business men a most
ggravating restriction is that which
rohibits the importation into this
ountry of raw materials except unuer
uarantee tliat they will not reach Gerlan
Anns. In this way j?uglaiid pracically
takes control of many Amerian
industries and obtains valuable
rade secrets.
As a last resort for obtaining justice
rom the allies against their restricions
the administration can turn to
he retaliatory legislation passed by
he last Congress. The President has
>road powers in applying this legislaion,
which might bring trouble with
he allies if used to an extensive decree.
Morgan J. O'Brien, president of the
few York State Bar Association, incited
President Wilson today to speak
>efore a meeting of that organization
n New York city January 12. The
'resident took the invitation under adrisement.
.ITHUANIA TO* BE FREE;
KAISER'S SON FOR KING
PARIS, November 20.?Germany is
bout to follow up her declaration of
'olish independence with a similar
nnouncement regarding l^itnuania,
ccording to dispatches from Switzerand
to the morning newspapers. The
lispatch says that the new state will
robably receive Prince Eitel Friedich,
second son of the emperor, as its
overeign .and will form a state of the
ierman empire with a similar status to
hat of Bavaria or Saxony.
As in the case of Poland, the dispatches
add, the first step in the ereaion
of the new state will be the formation
of a Lithuanian army to fight
inder Field Marshal von Hindenburg.
t is estimated that Lithuania could
aise 160,000 men.
AMSTERDAM, via London, November
0.?A dispatch from Berlin says the
onservatives, independent conservaives
and national liberal members of
he Prussian diet have asked the govrnment
to guarantee that no portion
f Prussian Poland shall be incorporatd
into the future kingdom of Poland,
kmong the signers of the petition is
lerr von Kries, at present civil govertor
at Warsaw. The petition will be
liscussed in the diet Monday.
Australian General Ii Dead.
LONDON, November 20.?Brig. Gen.
Duncan ^T. Gla^furd died in France
November 12 as a result of a wound
rom a shell. He was one of the leadnR
Australian commanders and was
IIrector of military training In Ausralla
for four years preceding the war.
Farm Loan Board in Albuquerque.
ALBUQUERQUE, N. M. November 20.
?Four members of the federal farm
oan board are here today to hold a
tearing on land credit conditions, and
o gather information which will aid
he board in defining the twelve federal
and bank districts authorised under
he rural credits act. William G. Hctdoo,
Secretary of the Treasury, who
las participated In other hearings, did
tot accompany the board here, having
[one to ChUCarsla for a rest.
a
^fSiSonVv* ,
I
SUGGESTS THE LENDING
i nr tuc ddqtai mm
I Ul I ML I UulrlL unvlnUU
Federation of Labor Urges GovernitienMhus
to Aid Building
of Homes.
By the Associated Press.
BALTIMORE, Md., November L'O.?
Congress will be urged to pass legislation.
whereby money on deposit in the
postal savings banks may be loaned
to municipalities for the purpose of
building model homes for its citizens,
in accordance with a resolution unanimously
adopted by the American Federation
of Labor convention today. An
alternative suggestion contained in the
resolution is that the government shall
] establish such a system of credits that
; the people may borrow money for a
f long term of years, at a low rate of.
! interest, to build their own homes.
"We believe it is an easy matter for
the government to take such steps to i
i relieve the working people in the iu[
dust rial centers of the insanitary homes <
j that are now unfit for habitation," the j
I resolution says.
i I
Fight on Injunctions Urged.
All state federations of labor and organized
labor everywhere were urged,
in an adopted resolution, to make the
injunction question the paramount issue
in all of their future political activities.
Such activity should be con;
tinued. the resolution says, until a law
'is operative in every state that Willi
\ "protect the rights and liberties of all
; citizens in so far as the illegal, unconI
stitutional and unwarranted use and
| abuse of the writ of injunction is concerned
in trade disputes."
In Behalf of Dismissed Teachers.
I The action of the Chicago board of
j education in dropping thirty-eight
i teachers "in defiance of the superini
tendent's recommendation," was condemned
in a resolution introduced by
Mrs. Ida Fursman of the American
Federation of Teachers, and adopted
today. The board's action was characterized
as "an offense to the American
conception of justice, as a reversion
from the merit system to spoils
politics."
HIGH LIVING COST REMEDY.
Chicago Official to Feed Twelve Per oni
on $20 a Week.
CHICAGO, November 20.?Twelve persons,
who, after eating full meals of
chicken, turkey, roast beef and vegetables
last night, and then prepared to
go on short rations In the diet test of
the municipal health department, were
given a two-day respite today.
John Dill Robertson, health commissioner.
had announced that he expected
to feed the twelve?six men and six J
women?for two weeks for $20 a week, i
or at a rate of a little more than 8
cents a meal. He said today, however,
that he had been forced to postpone the i
beginning of the experiment until
Wednesday because he has found that
the kitchen which is to be used must be
specially prepared.
The experiment is to be made in an
effort to demonstrate a method of reducing
the cost of living.
Dutch Sympathy for Belgians.
LONDON, November 20, 11:15 a.m.?
An Amsterdam dispatch to the Wireless
Press says the Dutch government
has instructed its representative at
Berlin to notify the German government
that a painful impression has
been produced in Holland by the deportation
of Belgian civilians.
Conservation of Paper
Every citizen is culled upon to sec
that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
If-you have no further use for today's
newspaper save "It for the'
school children's playground fund.
BIG SOMME DRIVE
REPORTEDAT END
Berlin Says Anglo-French Offensive
Has Come to Complete
Standstill.
HEAVY PRICE FOR GAINS
BERLIN, November 20, by wireless to
Sayville, N. Y.f?Attacks were made by
the British yesterday on the Somme
front between Serre and Beaucourt and
south of Miraumont. The war office
announces that these assaults failed
with heavy losses to the attackers.
The British were driven front the
western part of tIrandcourt.
At a Complete Standstill.
The military critic of the Overseas
News Agency writes:
"The great,thrust on the Somme has
come to a - complete standstill. Last
week the general battle was split into
isolated attacks. The small local successes
of the enemy could not be developed
and for the most part were nullified
by counter attacks. The fact that
for several weeks the same villages
have been mentioned again and again
in the official German reports and those
of the entente is the best proof that the
general battle on the Somme has come
to a standstill and that the British as
well as the French are limited to improving
their positions.
"Although the British won small local
successes near Grandoourt. and the
Germans were again driven from Serre,
the coveted heights of Serre remained
in German hands after a desperate
battle.
Bapaume as Objective.
"Three fresh army corps were brought
up by the British for the great attack
of November 18-14, the objective of
which was not merely BeaumontHame\
and Beaucourt, but Bapaume, as
is proved by orders that were found.
After the failure of the mass thrusts
isolated attacks were continued by the
British all through the week. These
were without success, and on Saturday
the British again made a general attack
on both sides of the Ancre. This
new attempt to break through our line
was a complete failure. On the twelvekilometer
front the enemy was repulsed
almost everywhere, and his insignificant
successes at some places required
the heaviest sacrifices. Local success
at the bend of the Ancre was paid for
by the British with losses elsewhere on
the front. The Butte de Warlencourt, a
hill which bars the road to Bapaume,
which was captured by the British November
14 at the expense of enormous
sacrifices, was recaptured by the Germans
on the 16th. A surprise attack was
made by the Germans without artillery
preparation and the opposing troops
fled.
"Only two non-commissioned officers
and seventeen men could be captured.
The prisoners bore no arms. They
were Australians, who were most
weary of war, and they declared that
all the Australian troops on the Somme
front were kept up only by the hope
of speedy relief.
"Isolated attacks by the French were
pnunilv uriMiipcpssfill. Near St. Pierre
Vaast wood a French attack broke
down with heavy losses, and near Pressolre
little was gained."
Unchanged, Says London.
LONDON, November 20, 12:15 p.m.?
The war office announced today that
the situation ori the Franco-Belgian
front Is unchanged.
Today's French war office report, as
telegraphed from Paris; also is brief.
It says merely that the night passed in
relative quiet 011 all fronts.
British Seek Egyptian Recruits.
BERLIN, November 20, by wireless
to Sayville.?-British officials are seeking
recruits among the natives of
Egypt, according to the Overseas News
Agency, which adds that the town of
Cairo has T)0en declared in the- war
one,
v '
1 PRESIDENT IS WORKING
ON ANNUAL MESSAGE
| Although He Will Receive More Visitors
Than Last Week, Number
Will Be Small.
I
! I:'resident Wilson will see more vis
itors this week than he did last week,
hut the number will not be large, owing
to the writing of his annual address
to Congress and to the consideration
of questions growing out of the
uuiupcaii vv auu tiic mcAicaii muuuic.
The President at noon today received
Dr. Belisario Porras, the newly appointed
minister of Panama, who presented
credentials and exchanged felicitations
with the chief executive. Dr.
Porras was formerly president of the
South American republic. Several
: friends making personal calls also saw
the President, and tit > o'clock this
afternoon the President is to discuss
I with Representative Adamson, chairj
man of the House committee on interstate
and foreign commerce, the
legislation regarding railroad and industrial
strikes the President hopes to
put through Congress to complete the
legislation passed at the time of the
projected strike last summer.
President and Mrs. Wilson left the
White House at 9 o'clock this morning
and went to the golf links of the
Virginia club, making the round and
returning just before noon.
It is expected at the White House
that President and Mrs. Wilson, Dr.
and Mrs. Grayson. Mrs. Boiling and
Miss Bones will attend the Army-Navy
foot hall game at the Polo Grounds in
New York Saturday. They will leave
Washington early Saturday morning,
returning after the game. The party
will sit for half the game on the Army
side and the last half 011 the Navy
side.
CANNED GOODS SCARCE.
j Retail Grocers Say Supply Is Far
1 Below Normal.
i NEW YORK, November- 2u.?Retail
| grocers complain of a shortage of canned
goods and some predict that only
, one-third of the normal supply will he
J available in New York this winter,
i Many grocers are running out of their
| supplies of standard, widely advertised
; canned products, declared a trustee of
the Retail Grocers' Association, and are
i unable to replenish their stock,
j One reason advanced for the shortage
is that many of the big canning fac tories,
especially on the Atlantic seaboard,
have contracted to send their
entire output to the warring nations
?In Europe.
CITY OFFICIALS" ENTERTAINED.
Inspect Munition Activities and
Other Places in New York.
NEW YORK, November 20.?Officials
of forty-two cities which have displaced
mayors for city managers and
j who are here on their way to Springfield,
Mass., to attend the annual meet
ing of the City Managers' Association,
inspected local munition activities today.
They were shown a routine drill
of a fire company, the fire department's
repair shop, the incinerator plant, the
Brooklyn navy yard and listened to
an address by Mayor Mitchel.
Tonight the city managers will be
the guests of the City Club at dinner.
Jury Finds F. J. Richards Guilty.
PORT ANGELES, Wash., November j
20.?The jury in the case of Frank J. j
Richards, formerly of Lincoln, Neb., j
charged with attempted blackmail of j
David E. Thompson of Nebraska, former
ambassador to Mexico, returned a
verdict of guilty today, after being out
twenty-one hours. Richards was charged
with threatening to publish a
biography of Thompson in the event
that he refused to pay $24,000. which
Richards alleged was due him on a
, partnership account.
; FORESEE CLASHES
I AS THE RAILROAD
| HEARINGS START
Interests See Conflicts BeI
tween Elements Before Congressional
Committee.
I
WHOLE TRANSPORTATION
SITUATION IS TO COME UP
InvpstiOTtiMo- Vwta at Pflniffl!
a aeiayea start ana a cross winu mai
cut clown her speed and forced her to
| descend to replenish the gasoline supj
ply. were responsible for her failure to
reach New York city. Miss Uw said,
| after her arrival at Binghamton yes;
terday afternoon at 4:20 o'clock,
j Previous to yesterday. Miss Law had
| never made a single flight longer than
j twenty-five miles. Her machine, a
j small biplane, has a spread of wings
; less than half that of the one Carlstrom
used. It was not specially designed for
1 the occasion.
Beaches Hornell Without Stop.
!
j Miss Law covered a distance of about
| 785 miles in 6 hours and 50 minutes,
i time being deducted for the descent at
i Hornell. The distance between Chicago
and Hornell was made without a stop.
Miss Law left Chicago at 8:25 a.nj.,
j eastern time. She had expected to start
' before that hour, but was delayed by
experinfents with the carburetor for an
hour and a half. In the time thus lost
the aviatrix might have covered the
remaining distance to New York.
At the outset of her flight a strong
wind blew toward the east. Aided by
this, .she made an average speed of 100
miles an houi at an altitude of about
6,000 feet. During the last 200 miles,
before the stop at Hornell, a sharp
cross wind blew, with the result that
her gasoline tank was soon emptied.
She glided two miles into Hornell at
2:07 p.m.
After replenishing her supply of gasoline,
?Miss Law flew the remaining 117
. Here darkness overtook her and she
1 \vas forced to descend.
TEUTON ENVOYS ORDERED
TO QUIT GREEK CAPITAL
Anglo-French. Fleet Commander Also
Demands Surrender of
Greek Arms.
LONDON. November 20, 12:30 p.m.?
An Athens dispatch to the Exchange Telegraph
Company says the German, AustroHungarian,
Bulgarian and Turkish ministers
to Greece have been informed by Vice
Admiral Du Fournet, commander of the
allied fleet, that they must depart from
Greece by Wednesday.
ATHENS, November 18, via London,
November 20 (Delayed).?Vice Admiral
Fournet, commander of the Anglo-French
fleet in the Mediterranean, last night presented
to the Greek government a note
demanding the surrender to the entente
allies of all arms, munitions and artillery
of the Greek army, with the exception of
some 50,000 rifles now in actual use by
the forces remaining after the last step
of demobilization.
PRESIDENT TO ATTEND
CENTENNIAL OF CHURCH
President Wilson will attend the centennial
celebration of the founding of
St. John's Church January 13 and make
an address. The President today received
a committee from the church,
consisting of Rev. Dr. Roland CottonSmith,
Admiral Charles H. Stockton
and Ralph Jenkins. They told the
President that the centennial of the
! church would be most interesting and
j that the congregation would be greatly
I pleased to have him present.
.
| TWO KILLED AT CROSSING.
Three Others Are Seriously Hurt by
Pennsy I rain at York.
YoRK, Pa.. November 20.?Two men
were instantly killed and three other**
seriously injured when a Pennsylvania
railroad express train bound for Philastruck
an automobile near here
today. The occupants of the car were
York county farmers from the vicinity
of Stewartstown, bound for Lancaster
to buy cattle. The dead are Henry
Laniun. sixty-five years, and William
Leib, fifty years. Conrad Lanius will
probably die.
The farmers composing the party on
the way to the cattle market occupied
two automobiles. The driver of the
first machine. heard the crossing- bell
and saw the light of the train's headlight,
but realized that he could clear
the tracks. The safe passage of the
first machine is believed to have led
the other on to the crossing directly
in the path of the train, _
o o ?v"? ? ""r*?
! and All Elements Are Represented
i
j But the Brotherhoods.
I
Clashes among: the railroad;-, the railroad
commissioners of the states, the
proponents of railroad regulation b>
governmental instrumentalities and
the proponents of government ownership
of railroads and other public utilities
were foreshadowed at the first
meeting today of the joint congressional
committee created to investigate
the entire subject of transportation in
this country and make recommendations
to Congress for remedial legislation.
The committee met in the offices oi
the Senate interstate commerce committee.
The committee room was filled
with officials of railroads, trade organizations,
shippers' organizations and
publicists who desired to be heard.
None of the big railway brotherhoods
or any of the other organizations of
railway employes was represented by
national officials or representatives at
the meeting today. C. B. Johns of the
Brotherhood of Engineers, of Evans1
burg. Fa., representing his local orj
ganization. announced he wished to be
heard and said that he had not had
j an opportunity to consult any or tne
national officers as to their desires in
the matter of presenting testimony.
Chairman Outlines the Work.
Senator Newlands. chairman of the
joint committee, made a statement, setting
forth the purposes of the investigation
and outlining the ground which
it is expected to cover. Following this,
he called upon those present desiring
to be heard by the committee to announce
themselves. A large number
of witnesses gave their names.
Former Senator Bristow of Kansas,
speaking for the National Association
of State Railway Commissioners, gave
notice that the organisation desired
to be heard, particularly with reference
to the proposal advanced, he said,
by the railroads to curtafl the authority
of the state railroad commissioners
and centralize that authority in th*
hands of the federal government. He
suggested that the railroads should be
heard first.
Senator Underwood of Alabama interrupted
to suggest to Mr. Bristow that the
joint committee was there to obtain information
and not to stage a contest between
any particular antagonists.
When it came time for the railway executives
to announce themselves, A. P.
Thnm rtf finntk.m, railwov no ?naK>l
counsel for the advisory committee of railway
executives, gave the names of that;
committee. He suggested that the railraod
officials would prefer not to be called
as witnesses until after the "publicists and
economists" representing the public had
been heard.
Would Prevent Needless Controversy
"Is it not a fact." said Senator Cum1
mins of Iowa, a member of the joint committee.
"that the railroads fear that if
| they propose a plan it will immediately
cause opposition."
j Mr. Thorn admitted that this was so.
I "But tlie joint committee will not be
prejudiced." said Senator Cummins.
Mr. Thom insisted that there were some
persons would oppose anything suggested
by the railroads.
"I think you misjudge the people." said
Representative Adam son of Georgia, vice
chairman of the joint committee. "The
American people are proud of the railway
system of the country and would not see
it thrown down." His remark was ap.
plauded.
Mr. Thom said that the railroads did
not wish to be put in the position of a
complainant or a defendant before the
committee. "They wish to appear as
part of the public," he said, "ready to
promote the best development of the
subject."
The joint committee, after receiving
tlie names of the witnesses, adjourned.
It was announced that hearings would
begin tomorrow morning at 10 oclock.
The committee met in executive session
at 2:30 o'clock this afternoon to
plan out the investigation.
These Want to Be Heard.
Among those who announced their
desire of being heard were: Advisory
committee of railway executives, Frank.
Trumbull, chairman: F. H. Sisson. as
sistant chairman; B. F. Bush, A. J. Earling,
Howard Elliott, W. J. Harahan
Hale Holden, L. F. Loree, R. S. Lovett,
C. H. Markham, Samuel Rea, A. H.
Smith, F. D. Underwood, H. Walters,
Daniel Willard and A. P. Thorn, general
counsel; Amos L. Hathaway, Boston
Chamber of Commerce; F. D. Debrard,
Merchants' Association of New
York; George E. Bartol, the Philadelphia
bourse; George E. Rix, Lawrence.
Mass.. Chamber of Commerce; W. F.
Garcelon, Boston; L. P. Boyle, Commercial
Club. Kansas City; Philip Godley,
Philadelphia board of trade; R. C.
Marsh and Amos Pinchot, committee on
real preparedness; G. A. Poet, New
York, president of the Railway Business
Association; Judge S. H. Cowan,
Fort Worth, Tex.; G. S. Maxwell, Dallas,
Tex., representing the traffic associations
and live stock associations:
<\ D. Heineman, Chicago, secretary of
\ ihe National Live Stock Exchange; J.
H. Townsend, Memphis, Tenr... Hardware
Traffic Association: W. E. Lamb.
Chicago, representing Citrus Fruit
Growers' Association of California; J.
E. Love, chairman of the Oklahoma
state railway commission; Richard
Gates, Illinois; Scott J. Henderson, pubi
lie service commission of Washington;
I vra/i T-fhm?n former United States so
licitor general, representing telephone
and telegraph companies; P. B. McKenna,
representing the United States
Independent Telephone Companies Associations;
Albert T. Benedict, New
York, representing the Western Union
Telegraph Company, and Thomas B.
Harrison, representing the Adams and
American express companies.
Investigation Is to Include
All Transportation Lines,
Senator Newlands Says
In opening the first session of th,
joint congressional committee to investigate
railroad problems today,
Senator Francis G. Newlands of Nevada,
the chairman, explained that the inT
iRUTHLAW MAKES
NEW AIR nD
'Flying Time From Chicago to
New York, Nine Hours
One Minute.
FIRST TRIP OVER 25 MILES
By the Associated Pre**.
NEW YORK. November 20.?The record-breaking
airplane flight of Ruth
Law, begun yesterday in Chicago, terminated
at Governors Island here at
9:40 a.m. today after stops at Hornell
and Binghamton, N. Y. The final 152
miles from Binghftmtou to this city was
covered this morning in 2 hours and 20
minutes, and the entire journey, 832
miles in an airline, in the actual flying
time of'9 hours and 1 minute.
Miss uw was greeted on ner urn vat
at Governors Island by Maj. Gen. and
Mrs. Leonard Wood, who congratulated
her on her achievement. She was considerably
chilled and was taken to the
house of one of the officers at the post
to recuperate.
She had little to say about her flight
except that she had to fly much lower
than she wanted to, on account of the
haze. Jt was the cause of remark
among those who examined her inaj
chine that its structure was such as to
| expose her to the air more than in the
j case in most modern airplanes. The
j pilot's seat is placed on a projection in
j front of the machine so that the avia;
trix gets the full force of the wind.
1
Beats Carlstrom's Record.
) The machine used by 'Victor Carl!
strom, previous holder of the American
j non-stop record, established in a flight
1 November i from Chicago to New York,
j was of the fusillage type, in the cock2
pit of which he was snugly protected
! from the wind. In the present flight
! Miss Law bettered Carlstrom's record
i by about 100 miles, making the 500
j miles in an airline from Chicago to
: Hornell, X. V., where she arrived yes;
terday, without stopping.
