I "l
1
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Probably fair to-day and to-morrow;
somewhat colder to-morrow.
HIghett tcmpcraturt ttcrday,4g; lowett,3i.
Detailed weather, mall and marina report on pag a l.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 81.
NEW- YORK, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1916. Copyright, b fan u Printing and PubUiMng AtloeiattOn.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York, I KUewhere
Jersey Cltr and Newark. 1 TWO CKNTS.
BIO FOUR BACKS
i HOUR DAY FOR
2,000,000 MEN
Brotherhoods Form Work
ing Alliance With 12
Other Unions.
FOKKSHADOWS BIGGER
HA1LKOAD STRUGGLE
Honster Petition on Way to
Congress Asks Adamson
Law Amendment.
WILSON MAY BREAK
WITH LABOR CHIEFS
President's Plan for Com
pulsory Arbitration Is
Now Opposed.
Washington, Nov. 19. Pint steps In
a movement to secure an extension of the
eight hour day to all clanea of or
finlied railroad workers were taken
here to-day when the leaders of the four
railroad brotherhoods met with repre
sentatives of the other organisations of
the railroad workers afllllated with the
American Federation of Labor and
formed a working alliance.
This action, following Immediately the
arrival In this city of the brotherhood
chiefs who last summer brought about
the passage of the Adamson law, gives a
still more serious aspect to the general
railroad labor situation, and seems to
foreshadow a struggle of even larger
proportions than that which the Adam
son law averted last summer. That the
President and .Congress are to have their
hinds full with this matter Is not
doubted here now.
When the Adamson law was up for
discussion a petition was circulated
among the railroad men not members of
the brotherhoods protesting against the
proposed law as doing a grave Injustice
to this class bf railroad workers, who. It
was contended, must suffer st the ex
pense of the men whose wages were to
be raised by the law.
Monster Fetltloa for Congress.
These petitions received little attention
either frem the President or the men
entrusted with putting through his rail
road legislation. Since the passage of
the act, however, the movement has as
sumed even larger proportions. A
monster petition Is now on Its way to
Congress asking that the Adamson law
be extended to take In all classes of rail
road men, totalling 2,000,000 workers, or
tlx be repealed. The brotherhoods have
tOrt.OOO members.
In joining hands with the railroad
men outside their own organisations and
in promising to support a demand on
their part for a general eight hour day,
the brotherhood leaders have, they be
lieve, removed one aourcs of trouble
when Congress meets.
The four lenders who arrived here to
day were W. O. Lee of the trainmen, W.
P. Carter of the firemen. Warren 8.
Stone of the engineers and 1.. 8. Shep-
pard of the conductors. They are the
tame men who were here last summer
with the exception of Shei'pard; who Is
ctlng president of the Order of Railway
Conductors In the absence of A. B. (Jar
rttson, now on a vacation.
Brings la 12 Organisations.
The meeting at which the new alliance
as perfected was held at the office of
the American Federation of Labor.
There are twelve organisations of rall
road workers embraced within the mem-
Wnhlp of the federation and forrr.li;;
tie rnllroad department of that orgsnl
Mtlon. These organisations have i total
membership of about 300,000, Including
such railroad workers as the machinists,
tar repairer and painters. These men
form a Urge proportion of those who
lined the so-called Fraier petition plo
luting ncalnst the Adamson law.
Heretofore the Big Four, as the rail
road brotherhoods are called, havn held
aloof from the federation In spite of the
Mrelslcnt efforts of President H'lmucl
Calipers and his anidates to Lrlnf
them In. But to-day, while still refus
ing to Join the federation, the brother
h'.nds. through their chiefs, formally
screed to Join hands with the federation
members and promised mutual support
end cooperation In the eight hour day
movement on the railroads.
President Lee of the trainmen made
It I 'In In to-day that the attitude of the
brotherhoods had not changed toward
tni proposal for n compulsory Investiga
tion of railroad disputes, one of the fea
tures of the Presldent'8 programme of
U'l summer which did not go through
Itfoio Congress adjourned.
Fight t'firapnlsorjr Feat re.
It was intimated that the union heads
ai line to lay plans for a determined
fieht against this feature and that they
re counting upon the support of Com
pels and the federation, with which they
now have a working agreement. They
lke the ground that arty form of com
rulsnry Investigation or arbitration Is
an luvailon of their constitutional
nhts.
Altlinugh the brotherhood chiefs have
r.o appointment to see the President, It Is
lilleved nulta likely that they will ask
foi one in the next few days. While
tenlbly this would be merely for the
I urpose of paying their respects to the
mn who came to their support last
mmmer, It is understood that the leaders
' desirous of making known to the
I''ffildent tholr views with regard to
U'i fight the rallrnads have started
cxiiuit the law whore pcisuge he so
ured fur them.
Want White House .tsinraui'r.
Ihey purpose, it la said, In hold the
I iderit to Hie ptomlffi lie mide when
fsre Hero bef.ite, ti.tn-l. to secure
n c Rlit hour 1 ly for them. What they
are looking for, It Is understood, Is an
Conluuccj on Second Page,-
RVTH LAW FUES 75 M's
Jtl!2l lco
sssssssRssl
aaaBaBaHaaH ''
sssssssssH '
SB
Copyright Underwood A Underwood.
Miss Ruth Bancroft Law.
25 CENTS A DAY FOR
A SCIENTIFIC DIET
12 Persons Will Be Used to
Prove High Cost of Living
Is Unnecessary.
Chicauo, Nov. 19. Six men and six
women, employes of the city Health
Department, ato their Thanksgiving din
ner tcrday and then gave their pledge to
eat nothing for two weeks except the
scientific diet provided by a public
economy commission.
They, will attempt to demonstrate the
theories of the commission that the high
cost of living Is due In n great degree
to the apparent willingness nf the public
to pay nny price demanded for Its
luxuries and that the public's henlth ns
well n. Its purse would be lntprocd by
an Intelligent diet.
John Dill Robertson, Health Commls
rtoner. says he expects to feed the twelve
for 110 a week, or at n trllte more than
eight cents a meal or 23 cents a day.
The squad will weigh In nt S :30 to
morrow mornlnc Their weight will be
carefully watched each day of the two
weeks. They will get three carefully
prepared meals each day and will be
expected to do their regular work r'ni
win oe permmeu ,0 urinK n.iy w.....r,
between meals.
A. hlg commission merchant m. ad-
mltted to-day he had profited by h.sli i
prices attributed the Increase
the Increase to the
supine public. "In former years If u.
housewife was asked to pay 40 cents a
pound for butter." he said, "she revolted
and used a cheaper substitute. This
year she pays 30 cents,
'Therein lie's the secret of present high
price. There nre liberal stocks of but
ter and egg In cold ytorugt' und the
holders have made more money than
tbey ever expected to make. Still there
Is no way to make them tell n product
for 30 cents If they cmii get 30 for It and
aa long as buyers will pay the advancing
prices the price Ik going up.
"It has got to be n Jol.e, A Holler will
offer a lot of butter or ckk t a (crt.iln
price, feeling that no one will be foolluhl
enough to pay mat iiigu, aim inn nrsi
thing he knows his offerings are ac
cepted." INSURES EMPLOYEES FREE.
Hnst-hrnhelm of the Astor Will Pay
on 230,000.
William C. Muschenhelm, proprietor of
the Hotel Astor, played Santa Claus to
1,400 of his emploces yesterday when
he called them together and handed each
one a life Insurance policy. Kvery one
who has been employed at the hotel for
a year or more received a policy and
the total amount of the Insurance was
more than 1230.000.
The lowest policy was for $500, which
wan Issued to all workers In the hotel
who had been on tlu staff for a year.
For every additional year of service
another 1100 was added. The largest
policy was given to Tom Ilorlon, who
has been employed by Mr. Muschenhelm
for thirty years. His policy called for
13.400.
Next came Peter, well known to patrons
ai head waiter of the I.ouls XVI, room,
who, with a record of twenty-six years,
received h policy for $3,000. The third
largest went to Miss Mary Hereon, em
ployed as houtekeeper for twenty-five
jears.
Twenty employees with records of
from fifteen to twenty years got policies
ranging from $1,900 to $2,400. Fifty
more averaged between $1,400 and
$1,900.
FEW BABIES LEFT IN POLAND.
.None I nilrr ft In gome Districts
Die by Thousands of Starvation.
Boston, Nov. 19. Not a single child
under the age of 5 years can be found
In large areas of Poland, according to
a report presented to the People's Heller
Committee for Jewish War Sufferers,
which opened Its national convention
here to-day,
Tho report read by Morris Uothen
berg of New York In behalf of tho Joint
distribution committee said that In cer
tain sections of Poland nil bablcti had
died from lack of nourishment. In the
city of Vllna nlono 7,000 children am
reported to he facing the hitter cold of
a Hutiilan winter without shoes.
Up to date approximately $6,000,000
has been contributed hy the Jews of
Airerlca for the war victims. Of this
amount $2,030,000 has been distributed
In rtussln, $1,(54,300 In German Poland
and $1,193,000 In Austria-Hungary,
PINKHl'KMT HOTKLH AMI liOI.K I.IN'KM
Now npen. Inquire S.sbosrU Air Line,
till li'wsy, div.
Leaving Chicnpo nt 8:26 A. M.,
She Descends nt Bingham-"
ton at 4:45.
108.0 MILES AN HOUR
Beats Carlfitrom by 210 Miles
Overtaken by Darkness,
Will Come Here To-day.
UiN'otiAirW, N. T., Nov. 19. The
American cross-country non-stop avia
tion record Is held by a woman. Miss
Ituth Uancroft Law, !9 yearn old, landed
hero from Chicago at 4 MS o'clock this
afternoon In her Curtlss biplane, a little
crestfallen because darkness had forced
her to come down without completing
the Chicago-New York flight she had
planned. She wilt fly to New York to
morrow morning, landing at Governors
Island about 8:10.
Mlsa Law hardly expected to make a
non-stop flight to New York from
Chicago the gasolene tank In her little
biplane would not carry enough fuel for
that but she did expect to dloe to-night
in Manhattan. As It was, when she came
down this afternoon at llornelt, N. Y.,
for gasolene she was 68 miles from her
starling point, which beat Victor Carl
Strom's non-stop record by 216 miles.
Here Is what Miss Law did:
' Tim. Miles.
Left Chicago :: A. M.
landed st llornell. N. V... 2:7 1. M. Itl
Left llornell 1:11 1'. M.
handed st Blnth'iuton.N.Y. 4:i V. SI. It;
Tolst distance covered ?S
Tutsi tlma In nlr. t hour. 13 minuter.
Awrsie speed ver hour, 101. miles.
Kaatern Unit.
First Cross-country Flight.
Miss Law began to fly In 1912, and has
always been known as an exhibition
filer. She has looped the loop and taken
part In several aerodrome meets, but this
Is the first time she ever made any sort
of a cross-country flight. Her longest
previous flight was not more than twenty-five
mllea.
The feature of Miss Law's achieve
ment, aside from the fact that she Is a
young woman of slender build and not
at all athletic, la that she came almost
unheralded. She had an old aeroplane
rebuilt by the Curtlss company a few days
sko. Then she telegraphed the Aero Club
of America that she would make a Chicago-New
York flight In accordance with
the club's rules, and asked that they
end an observer to watch the start. She
expected to start yesterday, but had mo
tor trouble wlth the rebuilt machine, and
had to wait over until this morning. She
did not sit In Chicago day after day
waiting for fair weather, aa Carlstrom
did, and her achievement Is the more re
markable on that account.
She steered by compass most of the
way, flying at an altitude of (.000 feet
with a stiff breeic nt her back. Hut
when she was about 300 miles from
llornell Miss Law had to sdlghtly change
her course, fo that the wind blew across
the machine. Then the engine begun to
take more gae, until her tlfty-three gal
lons were exhaUstrd when she was still
two miles from llornell, where (the had
arranged to stop. She was forced to
volplane, without power, to the llornell
fair grounds, where experts from the
Curtlss factory were watting to fill tip
the tank.
In spite of her heavy clothing she
r, numb ftj wh crI(, whfn
lr, arrVfd at iornei, ,ut could hardly
,v.,u for (h, mectlanlcs to Inspect the
,,...i,in ,..,.(. mi i i
get away again when nlu learned that
the had bettered Carlttrom'it record.
(Had Handera Turn Ont.
ninghamton's Chamber of Commerce
has a glad hund committee, which got
on the Job Immediately when Mies Law
was seen to land on the Willis Sharp 1
Kilmer stock farm. Samuel II. Dalley,
the chairman of the committee, who was
nutomoblllng near the landing place, was
the first to greet her.
Miss Law's first words were, "I'm go
ing to do It next time." She said that
her failure was due to a delay of an hour
and n half this morning In starting from
Chicago, due again to motor trouble.
She had planned to start ut 7 o'clock
Eastern time. If the had had that much
time before darkness, ahe said, she would
have been able to complete the Journey.
At 2 ;30 o'clock this morning Miss
Law aroe from her nlKht's sleep nt the
Moirleon Hotel In Chicago. She put on
nrst n suit or shk tnen a suit of chnmol".
two suit of woolen underwear, a suit of
coft leather to keep the wind from her
body and over all a heavy, fur lined
overcoat. She wore on her head a woolen
cap, covered with a woolen aviator's hel
met und then a leather helmet, Two
pairs of wool stockings, heavy shoes,
puttees, gloves und goggles completed
her outfit.
Maps Sewed to liar La.
Mies Law got to tho hangar at 4:30 A,
M where maps of her route were newed
to her lap and right glove, and then ahe
went up for a trial flight. She circled
Grand Park twice nnd descended vlthln
Ave minutes. It was still dark, but
lights on the field guided her,
There wns a sixty mile gale und her
mechanic pleaded with her to wait for
mure favorable weather conditions. Hut
Miss Law said the gale would help her
und refused flatly, demanding thut they
start her engine. Soon she disappeared
In the hazy mist und nn hour und a half
Inter was reported us passing over Ken
dallvllle. Intl.. 143 miles away. HeporU
from different towns and cities along the
route Indicated that the wind nt her bnck
wns helping out her motor and that at
times she attained n speed ns much as
three miles a minute.
Miss Law Is a sister of Hodman Ijiw,
the parachute Jumper, She was born at
Lynn, .Mass., on March 21, 18S7, and
holds license No. lis of the Aero Club
of America, which she took on November
20. 1912, In n Wright biplane. She was
flying een before she took her pilot's
license, making her headquarters on
Htaten Island. In those days, when there
was no aviation Industry In this country
nnd when aviators were few, thoso con
nected with aeronautics did not think
much of Miss Law's flying, They told
her she would nevor succeed. Hut she
kept on trying nnd came out of fnll nftcr
fall with little more than it fow rcrntches.
Her First Ileal Machine,
Miss Law brought her littlo exhibition
machine, one of thopc lll;o Heachcy flew,
whom the ijvlalor slln slrnpped out In
front, with nothing under him but tho
around, to New York tn tho Sheepshend
liny nvlatlon meet laid May titid took u
few priuru lliuic, nn came m third in u
twenty mile race n round tho track, Since
then she has Won looping through tl.e
South and West. Tim rrnson Mic never
Cosfinurd on fourth Pug.
WILSON GIVES LANE
NEW MEXICAN PLAN
Joint Patrol of the Border and
Good Offices in Procur
ing a Loan.
CABRERA TURNED DOWN
He Had Insisted on a Mexicnn
Being in Coiiininnd of
Frontier Guard.
Washinoto!, Nov. li. The adoption
of a plan for tho settlement of the Mexi
can controversy which will have the ap
'proval of President Wilson and First
Chief Carrania Is expected to follow the
teturn of Secretary tne to Atlsnttc
City for the resumption of the confer
ences of the Joint commission-
The Secretary of the Interior, chair-1
man of the American delegation, takes
with him. It Is believed, the President's
approval of n. plan which will be ratls-l
fuctor' to all the Mexican delegates, nt.
ir.ni ,11 II KflierHI 1IIUYIB1UH8. Mia. fc
Is understood, was discussed nt the
Wlilta House conference last night In
which the President atul Secretaries
I-atie, Lansing and ltaker participated.
It Is also expected to meet the objections
which Luis Cabrera of the Mexican
delegation made to tho original proposals
ot the American delegation.
The three Important features of the
convention which It now seems probable
tll be agreed upon by the Atlantic City
conference are :
The withdrawal of (Jen. Pershing's ex
peditionary force from Mexico.
The establishment of a border patrol
through the cooperation of the military
forces of the two countries.
The extension by the United Stales nf
lis good offices In procuring for the
Mexican Government n loan In the
United States which may be used for the
rehabilitation of the stricken republic.
Withdrawal to Come- First.
The American expeditionary force Is
to be withdrawn ns soon as possible. It
Is understood, as n condition precedent
to the carrying out of other provisions of
the agreement by Cnrranzn. It Is not
expected, however, that the troops will
be brought bilk Immediately. The alti
tude ot the Mexican delegates Indicates
that Carranxa has modified somewhat
his peremptory demand that the American
forces leave Mexican soil before anything
else Is done.
It is an open secret that 1-ottls Cabrera
has proved the stumbling block In the
way of reaching an agreement. Com
missioners llonlllas and Paul. It Is said,
have been ready to approve several dif
ferent suggestions for cooperative action.
Cabrera, however, held out for control
of any joint operations by n Mexican
military commander, a concession the
American commissioners did not feel
warranted In making. The patrol ar
rangement would provide that each Gov
ernment patrol lis nun side of the line
Independently, but with the understand
ing that American troops will piirsin- Into
Mexico on h hot trail any bandits who
attack border towns.
Loan the Chief laesf.
From the point of view of the Mexican
commissioners the rlontlug of a loan In
the United States Is the most Important.
Their contention has been that the
presence of the American troops has
kept northern Mexico in nn unsettled
condition and that t'nrranza has been
forced to use what revenues he has been
able to obtain for the upkeep of bN
army, Aa n result Internal condition
generally have been neglected, and the
Government has been unable to glo Hi
attention to pressing domestic problems.
With financial assistance Cnrranza
counts upon restoring normal conditions,
nn uui hkiii. Iimu.llj anil priimK III,'.
wheels of activity in motion ugaln o
thut revenues will Increase and that
further reforms may bo carried out. Tho
proposed loan would be secured by taxes
upon natural resources, Mich us oil and
mlneiuls.
It U generally expected In diplomatic
circles In the capital that the Interna
tional commlrnlon will reach a decision
of one kind or another within ,t short
time. There uro Indications that the
United States Government will elect to
stand upon tho plan upproed at the
White House conference. It Is even pos.
Bible, that to expedite the achievement
of the object of the Atlantic City confer,
enees Sectetary Lansing may go up to
be ut hand In ruse his advice Is needed.
BURN
AMERICAN'S BODY.,""' Industrial department In (lie new
Villa llfilidlta Publicly Crrluntr Up.
mains of I'lililrn titled Man,
Kb Paso, Tex., Nov, 19. An unidenti
fied American was killed when a Villa
band took Jimenez, nnd four Americans
were seen under guard of bandits at
Parral during Villa's occupation of that
town, according to reports believed by
Federal agents to be authentic, brought
to the border by refugees,
Tho Amerlcuu killed nt Jimenez wae
described as about lio c;it.i old, nnd
known to be from Torreon on his way
to Chihuahua city. Ho was inuhlered.
auld tho refugee, In the Jimenez Hotel,
nid his body, after being robbed of
clothing und valuables, wag placed on
is l.nnrlra
The same nfugees who claim lo have I wtiraing - - ."
been witnesses of the outrages also say I" "?""' the. mailer later with ou
that two Mexican women had married , ?"' 1 "IT" x u" , i'."Vf 1!0l"!J
Chinese nnd their five half caslo chll- 1 '' 0,,,,e M" ,n kW? " ,,l"
dren were found and thrown alive I to ',,f ,,,B. 'fW "rRI,,,l"t "" V", 'il
the fire and cremated In sight of he hMst I ran tell you somell.li.g-lnclud-croW(Ii
lug letting you know what I nut not
All foreigners that Villa has caught, I 1,1 1'bc.rty "'"
except mo Japanese and Hermans, have
neen put io ueitiu, me reports agree,
and even the Germans nre said to have
suffered nt least In tho Instance of Theo
dore Hoemuller of I'arral.
Gen. Trevlno, who took the field
against the Vllllstaa operating near Chi
huahua, met n part nf the Villa lmml m
Kachlmba Pass on Saturday, according 1
to news received here. One report says
he was defeated and forced to leturn to
Chihuahua city, while another is to the
effect that he broko through the Vllllsta
lines ann is continuing souin lo attack
lh Vllllstas about Jimenez and Santa
Itnsalla
According tn Intelligence received bv
Ameilcan military olllclals when the for
mer Vllllstas In tho Juarez garrison were
disarmed Uot week It wns berausa of
the discovery of it plot In the garrison
io revou ami join me i.rKansiii laciion.
Wllliama nnu nraiian, tnc two
Anifrlnina who were held In Juarez,
linvn been released on nonii, ah Ameri
cans known to have been In prison In
northern Mexico nre again back on this
side of the line.
One hundred nnd fifty-nine persons
were killed find many morn or less
seriously Injured In n railroad wreck on
the Intor-Ocennl'j line to Vera Cruz, near
Jalupa on November 1'.', according to
reliable report received to-day.
(
'FRANCE PLANS TO
MOBILIZE WORKERS
Industrial Organization in Re
ply to Germany Coining,
Says tho "Temps.'
HAS TRANSPORT CHIEF
New Official Will Conlrol All
Traffic by Ball, River
and Sea.
Paws, Nov, 19 A mass mobiliza
tion of French civilians Is under serious
consideration as a counter measure to
that of Germany, according to the
Temps.
"A simultaneous effort on the part of
the Allies must be the answer to Oer-
many," the Temps says. "Germany must
he he.u fin thara I nn tMliot nnpfll Inn.
The duty of faeh o( ot ,, ,M1.C
,10ur whf tm, futf of e v011tltrJ. ami
civilisation Is being decided. Is to work
- n.i.., ,, ,,,,, f. .
tlonal defence and the cause of liberty
No one has the right at this time to
avoid responsibility nor to dodge duty.
"It Is the hour to apply the decree of
the national convention that 'until the
day the enemy Is driven from the terri
tory all Ficnchmen nre In permanent
requisition for the service of the armies.'
France In peril has need now more than
ever to put Into service all her moral
and mental Intelligence If the final de
cision Is to be hastened.
Appeal to ttntlre NatUn.
"The appeal must be made as at the
time of the revolution to all the energies
capable of contributing to the liberation
of the vrountry. The entire nation must
raise Itself to the level of our admirable
urmv and those 'behind the front must
be worthy of those In the trenches."
Tho .ouniol ifrs Drbnfs says:
"The war Is reaching a crisis and we
must gain a rapid Increase In produc
tion without hindering everyday life.
At the moment when the Germans are
making their most dangerous effort the
French feel more than nt any other time
the need of being governed, to be set
right and guided and. If necessary, con
strained to order and work."
The appointment will be officially an
nounced to-morrow of a Director-General
of Transports and Importations for
the whole .of France. His powers will
cover everything ronnected with traltlc
whether by rull. river or sea. In addi
tion he will be In charge of all transport
arrangements and decide as to their
priority, both ns regards exports and im
ports, und regulate the arrivals and de
partures of all vessels used In the public
service In the military zone. He will act
under the authority of the Commander-in-Chief
or the Minister of War.
The first holder ot the office will be
M. Olavellle, Stale Hallway Director,
who at present Is Under Secretary for
M unltlons.
I'rltnlr Cars to lie Banned.
The pilvate rtutomnlill- Is a luxury
which can be dispensed with 111 waitlme.
In the opinion of the economies commis
sion. Conxlderlng that In the ptc-cM
clrt'Utnut.inces nil of the roources of the
country must bo dewited exclusively to
the national defence, the commlHslon In
a report made public to-day urges the
ilovernmeiit to xupprcsa without delay
or reduce the number of a I nutomu
biles not strictly utilized In the public
service or destined for Industrial or
comtnorclal ues. The report recom
mends alo that the military authorities
U'e the railroads If possible Instead of
automobiles and that a careful check be
kept on the use of oil nnd gasolene.
EQUALIZING BURDEN.
j -Hier r Nrvrral Children Not ti
titt to First Line.
(by wireless), Nov.
UrHi.iN (by wireless), Nov. 19.
l.lctil.-llf n, von Stein, thu (Senium War
MlnlMer, announced to-day that special
consideration will be given In futtno
to t-otdlers whoe families have suffered
heavy losses iiy the war. Fathers of
several children will not, If iwsslble, be
employed permanently In the first line.
l'iclliulnary to the draft of the pro
posed law creating the home Industrial
urtiiy, which has been laid before the
governments of the German Slates, there
Is it rumor that the ltelchstng will be
convened on December 5. This rumor
Is doubted,
Dr. Kurt Sorge, the new inimical
Chief nt Stuff to Hen. Groentr III tho
i Deiiarlineut of Munitions, who will lic.nl
war Diireau or ino .ir .Ministry nnu
upon whom will fnll a large share of thi
rchpcmslbtllty for the ci cation, main
tenance and efficiency of the proposed
"home nrmy," hn arrived In Iterlln to
lake up his work. Dr. Sorge expnwFed
conlldence thnt the general scheme of
the home nrmy will prove eltlcaelous und
successful,
Dr. Sorge, who Is little known beyond
the confines of Magdeburg, ulthuugh he
Is managing director of the big Criisun
works, said that hit) appointment came
unexpectedly, und lie pleaded Ignorance
u.-t ct of nil but the general outlines
of the new plan.
"You' must gH'e me a little time In
find out for myself what Is planurd,"
he said, "I u'n u llrm believer In tak
ing the neutrul pi ess into our conlldence
MANY TOWNS WITHOUT COAL.
Nrtv York Clllseli Wire Wilson tl
llrrnk I'ncl Famine,
Miimi.KTowN, N. V Nov. io The
coal famine In till" section has I cached
u,.,a. nn ncntp wtnern tbnt thu. i.iil,lA,iiu
, of ,nany small towns nnd villages nre
n. .,i in bum wood rink- n ,..
hundred pounds of coal can he purchased
at a time.
A committee or citizens, hearted by
Homer M. Green, a well known citizen
who formerly was it Jersey City Alder
man, sent the following telegram to
Preside nt Wilton to-night:
".Mountains of mined coal stand nt
nil great terminals, yet our small local
' dealers are unable to secure any to
supply the necessary rcoiuuemcnts here
. Citizens h
here appeal lo you for licit).'
ILnllrn.nl men say there n lit be plenty
of coal within two weeks.
Frank Hums of Hums Hioh. has been
asked to go to District Attorney Swann's
olllco lo.dity for the purpose of telling
Assistant District Attorney Samuel
Muikewlch, who Is conducting Mr,
Swnnn's coal Investigation, what he can
that will throw light on the reasons
for the recent boost In coal prices,
S AYS "SLAVE RAIDS" ARE
MENACE TO
Emile Cammaerts Declares Germany Is Deporting All
Classes Indiscriminately, Causing Horror
Worse Than Invasion.
Special Vablt Itepatch to Tni Sc iron tht
London Tliiifa.
London, Nov. 19, F.mlle Cammaerts,
the llelglan writer, writes as follows In
tho O Inert er;
"As I write these lines the slave .raids
are going on. The tramp of soldiers Is
heard through llelglan towns and vil
lages' and women, children and men are
kidnapped right and left. It Is terrible!
"Trains roll through Germany packed
with human cattle.
"These things have been going on since
October 15. Ten days ngo 15,000 had
been taken In Flanders alone. How
many nre there now? lletween 20,000
nod 30,000. If things nre allowed to go
on at this rate, wo shall witness the
wholesale deportation of an entlro people
reduced to slavery.
Worse Than Invasion.
"This, Indeed, Is n disaster worse than
Invasion; worse than the retreat from
Antwerp, worse than the wholesale mas
sacres of Louvalu, Titnilnei, Andenne,
Dlnant worse even than the ceaseless i
persecutions of the last two years.
What Is llelglum's answer tu this new
crime?
"To-day her soul Is stricken. Every
one .of these captives has to choose be
tween death and dishonor. Their spirit
Is broken by the slow, gnawing torture
endured In complete Isolation.
"In order to Inflict new torture upon
her victim Germany has had to aban
don her last hope that she might still
possess a rank among the civilized na
ENGLAND WELCOMES
FOOD CONTROL PLAN
Entire Press Favors Scheme
Corn, Meat, Potatoes and
Sugar Now Regulated.
London, Nov, 19. No other Govern
ment action In Great ilrltaln during the
war has commanded such Immediate and
almost unanimous support ss has the
decision to control food supplies nn.l
prices. Virtually the entire press wel
tomes the acheme. Almost the only criti
cism expressed is that the authorities
should have taken charge of the nation's
food supply long axo.
The JSfaflst points out that the meas
ure advances socialism Immensely.
The public appears Just to have
n..nrnr,i ii, me j.ili mat a majoriiv 1
of the population Is 11 lnkr lavishly ns '
in inr-n.ir mi, jnc lationing or tno
population on the Herman system ap
pears as yet Impiobable. The distribu
tion of thi- most Important commodities,
corn, meat und potatoes. Is already par
tially regulated ut Is nlso that of sugar,
Unc of the troublesome features of
the situation Is how to equalize luntteis
between tin? rich nnd the poor, tin the
theory of "equality of sacilfliv for all."
which Is a popular war watchword, the
newspapers ate making a sensation of
luxurious menus in fashionable, restau
rants und homes.
The limitation of restaurant meals
to three courses Is to b discussed by
the conferees of Waller Itunclman. ptes
Ident of the Hoard of Trade, with hotel
and resluurant manaiieis on Wednesday
to devise economy, but the restaurants
in the cities really are n small factor In
the general problem.
In the, meiinflniM "ilia ..Kb...
'" ,w. ninii i, n I
beer" remains almost wmed. Prohibi
tion proposals arc vety few. One urgu-'
ineut constantly raised agalnM dtlnkl
restriction in Great llilt.ilu Is that "If
the fanatics have their way a Unlit w ill I
be necessary after Hie war for the pen-1
plo In reualn their lloertles" I
GREECE TOLD TO GIVE UP ARMS.
French nnl Co innlrr tlluna
Army llut fiO.UOO lllfles.
Athens, via Loudon, Nov. 19. vice
Admiral Foiirnei, commander of the
Anglo-French licet in the Mediterr.inn.in,
has presented to the Greek Government
a note demanding the eurrendor to the
Kiitento nllles of all iirms. munitions
and artillery of the Greek nimy, with
the exception nf eotne 5O.H0O lilies now
In actual use by tin, forces lem.tluliig
after the last step of demobilization.
NEW AIR CRUISER.
Inllliil Inspection of Hup Hull) for
1'lorldil rrtlce.
A Insurious nlr cruiser with a wing
preud of neienty-sK feet, which wus
Inspected yiwterday b a committee from
tho Aein Chili of Anieilca, Is said lo bo
the first sten In tb oven,...!!,, ..i,. n....
I plans of the America Transoceanic Com.
p.uij, which is lieaueu ny uodm.lll Wall
iimahcr. The ulr cruiser is said to have
How n with eleven pasheiiKeiM and plans
lira being Hindu to l It to Florida tills
winter.
The million .station at Port Waslilua.
i ton was islabllsheil by Ml. Wnnamnkei 'h
company, with William i. Gash at Its
head.
The cruiser is ot tho lljlUK liont type,
diaws eighteen Inches of wafer, hn an
endowed cabin nnd two motors of loo
horsepower each.
Among those who Inspected II jester-
day wt'io Itobert I.ovelt. F T.tubee D.iv-'
ihon, li. P. DivIhou, Jr., Alan It. Mau
ley, president of the Aero Club of Anter-1
lea; Henry Woodhouse, T. A, M. .Mot-,
Ian, Stuard McDonald nnd David II.
Mcculloch,
RUSSIAN CASUALTIES 2,128,474.,
War Victims Since Jniir I, 1111(1,
Include KKI.Il'Jt Otllcrrs.
Hrrmk (by wireless), Nov. 19. Ac
cording to the Central Identification Of
fice nt Kiev, Hunsln, i-nys tho Overseas,
News Agency, the number of Itussbm
casualties since Juno I, 19UI, has leached '
ino.flSI ( lllccis und :',0:T,f,'ia men. j
Amotu; tho rnldleru who recently havn
fallen, according to tho anme emuce, nro'
one geucial of brigade, four colonel. ;
nnd four lleuteuaitt-color.els In com
mand of leglment.s,
it lei apparent from the recent flit"
slun lists, the Overseas News Agency
says, that part of the (turslnn forces on
the Caucasian front have been trans
ported to the European war theatre.
ALL BELGIANS
tions of the world. Since tho beginning
of' the war she has piled up such a heap
of horrors that the wildest Imagination
might well shrink from It. Hut these
slave raids will be considered In the
future the keystone of tho ghastly monu
ment. It Is not only without Justifica
tion but without tho slightest shadow of
extenuating circumstances.
tierniany'a KxplanaHona.
"When she sent her ultimatum to
llelglum Germany pleaded military ne
cessity. When she butchered 6,000 dis
armed civilians nnd sacked four or five
towns she Invented the legend of franc
llreurs, which was at least believed by
n certain number of soldiers who had
been falsely persuaded that llelglum
had promised to glvo free passage to
her army. When she requisitioned the
llelglan crops und raw muffs she ar
gued thnt she needed them sorely and
that If she allowed the population to be
fed by tho Pulled States und Great
llrltoln she might as well benefit. When
she murdered Nurse Cavell and Capt.
Fryatt she could say that they were
enemies who bad succeeded In doing her
some harm.
"The submarine campaign and the
Zeppelin raids were an outcome of the
new German principle of waging wur
not only upon the army and navy but
upon the civil population. All this made
anarchy, a wild brutality and systematic
violation of the laws of humanity. We
can understand how the dreadful nation
can be led to commit such crimes.
"Hut what ran be said about the re
cent slave raids?"
MARSEILLES SWEPT
BY A TIDAL WAVE
Great Loss of Life Believed
Certain All France Buried
in Storm.
Paws, Nov. 19. All France, from the
battlefields on the north to the Mediter
ranean, Is In the grip of the worst storm
that has been experienced here In twenty
years, one of the worst features of which
wns a huge tidal wave that rolled Into
the Gulf of Marseilles.
Vessels at ur.chor were swept from their
moorings, engulfed. In mountains ot water
mid finally enveloped in a succession of
smaller waves, from which few escaped:
crews were lifted from their decks and
tossed about until they were drowned In
the nuvry seas.
The wave Jumped the hrcikwaters and
its lorte tairled II Jar Into tho city ot
-Marseilles, it carried with It k number
of cabins and small cottages, flooded the
lower lloois and rellais of the larger
punning mar the waterfront, over
turned Htrert cars and tied up the entire
trolley stem
The loss of llfi will be great, ss will
the property damage, but under present
telegraphic conditions It will be several
days before the full details will bo
Known.
Itl the Mediterranean nnd on the
southwest coast of the Atlantic Ocean
disastrous gales nre reported. Southern
France lepoits heavy rains and high
winds: In the north, along the battle
front, theie ure severe snowstorms. In
P.uls there in,! heavy rains und high
w lnd
Acoidmg tu M. Angot, director of
tl.n weather bureau, tho storm Is the
worst that has been felt heiu for twenty
ears and the fluctuatloim of the ba
rometer wem mom tapld than In sixty
tni.s. From 721 millimeters, which
win already .1!) below normal, the ba
romeler dtopped 44 m'llltn, lets In Ihlrty
sl bonis.
The tettn "tidal wave" ns applied to
w.iws siuh us that descilbed In the
Paris despadh Is a misnomer, as (he
tides liavc nothing tn tlo with its eatie.
I'stially sip h Wales ure caused by
eartlniuikes.
Such was (he wave In , Kreiil l.ls
bon t'ut.'istibphe of IT,.:., when between
30,uan nnd tu.noo lives were lust and the
piopettj loss passed $I00,ii0rt,0UO . In the
Messina quake of IImis, when tho earth
shock was followed by a wuxe forty feet
high, qual.c mid wae causing the loss
o' TT,::.:! lltes, and the wave which fo
luwecl thu ("linrlestoti earlliitiak, of
lSS'l
.S7T.S' DRIVJCN ASHORE.
(intra t'niisf llrm)' llninngr .Moiin
llrlllah. Const.
London, Nov. 19 A renewal of the
heavy vales which have visited the Ililt
Ish toast recently caused n heavy loss to
shipping Saturday nnd Sunday. Four
laign outward bound steatneis weie
compelled lo return to Queenslonu, In
eluding the Olshi, which lost t,fr ,lo.
peller nnd onlv with the gicntest dim.
cully was able to mulir poll. Tim other
stcantets weie badly battered, IiiuIiik
lost boats und being otherwise damaged
Sunday morning n large number of
sl.ainers and sailing vessels were driven
nshoic nt different points. The llrlllsh
steamer .Mmistun was dilvcn ashore itiid
broken In two south of lllytji, it Is be
lieved the seventeen member of her
rnw pciikliPil, A Norwegian steamer Is
ashore In lllyth Hay, The crew was
saved
DROPS DEAD PLAYING GOLF.
W. II. Winter iicciimt lo Heart
lllaensp on Gedney Farm Coarse.
White Pi.sini", n. V, Nov. 19, w
II. Winter of 66 South Uroadway,' Yon
hers, expert accountant for the Ward
Itandall Company of New York, dropped
dead of heait disease to-day nfter mak
ing a 210 yaid drive toward the elgh
teenlh hole on tho Gedney Farm Oolf
and Country Club course.
He was playing In a foursome, and
the dtive was the longest, his ball being
the only one to clear the. dilllcult hunker.
Ho Mood watching one of hH com
panlons make u stroke out of the bunker
when he nuddenly pressed his hand over
his heart and fell, lie was dead when
Dr. It. .1, Parker of New York, who was
playlnit on the coure, reached his side.
.Mr. Winter was n ptomlnent resident
of YotiUers. He wus &5 years old and
nn enthusiastic golfer. His sudden death
was a shock to the club members and
play was suspended for the time, He
appeared to be In good health when
lie started tjjp foursome.
ALLIES OCCUPY
MONASTIR AS
TEUTONS FLEE
Serbs and French rursuo
Bulgnrs and Germans in
Cerna Bend.
SUPPLIES BURNED
BEFOBE KETJtEAT
Great Fires nnd Explosions
Noted by Advancing
Columns.
GENERAL ATTACK IX
MACEDONIA NEAB
Captured City Will Be Tem
porary Capital of Aged
King Peter.
Paris, Nov. 19. Monastir liua fallen
to the army of" tho Allies. (Jen. Sar
rall'a troops, .Serbians among them,
entered the principal city of southern
Serbia at 8 o'clock this morning.
The army of Germans and Bui
gailans thnt defended .Monnstlr is in
disorderly retreat on a wide front. Tho
Serbians, who played u leading part In
the reenpturo of the city, have taken a
great number of prlsoneis and trophies;
a Iteuter despatch from Ralonlca sayg.
Ucfore the allied troops tntcted
Monastlr great fires were seen In the
tlty and violent explosions were heard.
There Is every Indication that the Teu
tonic troops left In precipitate haste and
had to destroy largo supplies.
Political Effect Great.
The moral and political effect of the
allied victory j great. It may even
transcend the military effect. It gives
the Serbs a firm foothold again nn
Serbian soil. To the llulgnrs it Is the
lossj of a coveted prlzo for their par
ticipation In the war.
Monastlr will bo proclaimed the tem
porary capital of Serbia. The Serbian
troops now In the city will prepare for
the arrival nf King Peter. The aged
Serbian monarch, who wns forced tn flee
from Ids rouiury on horseback over tin
mountains when Serbia wns overrun,
arrived In Athens some d.ivs nco Tho
Crown Prince Is with the Serbian nrmy
In the field.
Meantime Gen. Snrrnll Is giving the
fleeing enemy nn rest. Scibl.nis, French
and Kueslnns nre pushing nhe.id In the
Cerna bend east of Monastlr. In the
Monastlr plain nnd In the mountains on
tho western edgu ot tho plain.
Flrelnir Tonnrd Prllrp,
The Serbs In the Cetna bend, nctord
lug lo u S.ilonlca despatch, are driving
the Germans und Midguts In disorderly
tetieat in the direction of Prllep, north
of Monasllr Tho Serbian troops have
taken thu vlllnges nf Griiulhte. llrrilk
mid Ynrnshok mid have teat lied the sum
mit nf Height n;,s.
The German War Oltlre admits thnt
Monastlr Iiiih been aliaiidoin d, It give-t
the main tredlt to the Serb", saying that
the los of HelKht 121'J caused Mouastlr
to be given up. The Serbian troops
stunned Height 1215 bv one of the fierce,
hnvonet chaiges that have junved Irre
sistible. The I let mail statement fol
low After the ciuiuy had succeeded In
making piogtc-s on 1 1 . 1 1-li t 1:1:,
northeast of I'hegel. the Get man nnd
Unitarian Hoops look up a position
noi th of Monastic. Motiabllr thus wns
abandoned.
The Fiemh announcement of the tak
ing of Monastlr icmmilzes Its senti
mental Impoilniii'e lo thu Serbs, recalling
their capluie of Monastlr fioin the Turks
111 the llalkau war. It follows;
November 19- -Troops of tho nrmy
of thu Kast enttied .Monasnr nt 1
o'clock this mot mm,', the date of the
anniversary of the taking of tho town
by the Serbians In 1912.
Tells of Sprit Prngrras,
The otllclnl Fiencli statement Issued
Immediately before Monasllr fell, says:
November IS There was Kie.it ac
tivity by artillery on both sides from
Lake Dolran lo the Vnidar Iliver
Kast of the Cerna Itlver Serbian
tioops continuing tlulr progress,
toward Grunlshtp encircled that place.
In the bend of the Cerna tho
Seiblans repulsed a new Bulgarian
lountrr nttnek on Height 1212 Tho
enemy Is falling back In disorder
toward the not til. putsued by our al
lies, who hnB leached the summit of
Height UTS.
In llut legion south of Monastlr
the Fieinh and Itusslan 1 1 oops made
new progress In tho tliiectlou of
Hole Yen,
(ienernl Advance Predicted,
Observeis here believe thnt the im
mediate military effects of the fall of
Moitnstlr will be a Hanking movement
on the strong IJulr-German centie lii
the Vardar Vnllov, designed to force tho
withdrawal of the etttlie Teuton front
nnd open up the road In a general a-l-vjnee
bv the Allies toward Bulgaria,
The effect of the Iosh of Mou-istlr upon
the Hulgarlan people nnd leaders is ex
pected to be great Monastlr and souih
rn Serbia weie regarded by Hulgarli
as one of the iewaid she would win by
Joining the Central Powers It Is ha.
lleved that only because Mulxarlv
wanted Mnnistlr was the Teuton Inva
slon nf Serbia pushed further s-outh nfter
the railroad lines connecting Iterlln nnd
Constantinople had been taken Tim
Serbians will he greatly cheered by thi
victory and will light the better and the
more wllllnglv, pnrllculiilv as the vie
lnry hs been w in to so gtent an extent
bv their own aims,
Teuton Coniiniiiilciillniis Menaced.
The probable i nurse of the i niutiaii'i
row that Monastlr has been t il.eii w It
probably bo. u dilve to Pi Hep, little mote
I th in twenty miles nonheast of Mouj.
j llr. From theie n Ki'imiis threat coucl
be made on tun mam inmuiiih cations of
the Teuton. Ilulgar ceiitiu in the Vinlur
Valley
The 7Vtnpi expects that the renewed
