Asfy the T-D for It
It? Injorjnahon Bureau Is at
Your Disposal ?
G6th YEAR
Do Voun.
C^XMAS SHOPPING
r* Q'w t
o/viy 29 /SAYS'
MOM? ~nj S^cp
READ OUR ADS- ,
VOl.I'MK rt<l
.M 31 ii 10it :<n
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1916- EIGHT PAGES.
w i: \'viiKit
I* \<-K 7
-CLEAR
PRICE, TWO CENTS
PRESIDENT WILL j
DEAL FIRMLY WITH
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
He Is Relieved of All Em
barrassment by Passing
of Political Campaign.
NOW FACES PORTENTOUS
ARRAY OF COMPLICATIONS
To These He Will Give Undivid-j
ed Attention for Next
Few Weeks.
SmMARINK ISKt'K NOW ACITK
lie Must Dorldf Position of United
States on Problems Which
Vox WorlfT.
[ P>" A t<?'! I'r? '
XV A P TI T X G T O N. N< vember 10.?A
portentous nnil complicated Interna
t tori si 1 situation now fa-es Pr^nlilent
Wilson, and for the next few weeks
will cnuaci' his attention and that of
his advisers to tin? practical exclusion
of all but tho niott tirv?? i?t of domostl.*
' subjects.
In tho last days of tho campaign
Secretary of State Lansing frequently
spoko of the necessity of postporting
action on the more delicate interna
t tonal questions because the uni-"i
talnty of the outcome if the political
contest hnd a din---? bearing on the
success or failure of some of the
administration poli< ies
di:ai. with iwtom.KMS
wrrmit'T i :^i 11 \ it it \*smi:nt
Hrotn now <>: the President expects
to deal with .ill fore! k ti questions
without embarrassment, and h<- is re
ceiving from lit- advi-o-ts a summary
of the outbtan'l.iii> i?.?u?-* ; <> essential
to taking stock of th? t?;?^situation
which must be met. n >w that interna
tional relation) h:. ? i? ? ?; r ?!???! to 'heir
place of prime ::i.??ortat.ee. While It
Is Aot evident tha* there will be any
! .ndament:?.! n.isc . . policy. ?,-???-loin
from fear that ai . ?:: r ? at would
I i < m'.slnu :???'? 1 . >:<ir? 1 M an
Internal politl .il n .s beet.
! <? moved.
President WiImhi and Seeretarj I.an
s ng feel theniH*J\es able to net with
a single eye t-? the International situa
tion. and thi-.r immediate conferences"
on the l'ro-ii!e i? return to Washing
ton indicate ln?w pressing they feel
t!.? situation to be
The president iriijst do. .? I*- how the
l.'nlted Stat-- shall meet the < Serrutin
submarine question, on the one hand:
the entente allied trade i estrU-t Ion.*, on
the other; whether th< retaliatory
legislation s.hall i>< enf..t ed; whether
the traditional ;h???i> of isolation -hall
ho abandoned for colic* vted unit: .<1
action, and whether the country shall
have an aggressive or a passive policj
toward the pea- e conference, the war
after the war and the Permanent
League to Kn force Peace, which the
President has accepted In theory. And.
during 'he rest of the war. shall Amer
ica's attitude be governed by a decided
benevolence in the Interpretation of in
ternational Iriw. according to its own
best Interests, or shall it be strictly
legalistic, regardless of whom It af
fccts?
SIiniAItl.M: SITIWTIOX
IS MtlST IIISCAI IKTI.Mi
Most spectacular and disquieting of
the problems is the submarine situa
tion with Germany. Hive critical
cases are pending, one involving a
loss of six American lives, two others
involving American ships. Increas
ingly serious Is tho fast-growing con
viction that any kind of general sub
marine warfare, even if complying
with the inadequate rules as to giv
ing warning and affording some meas
ure of safety r.f passengers, is in
tolerable. Germany Is known to be
building submarines rapidly, and there
is tho possibility of a starvation cam
paign against Kngland. Its effects
would concern till nations. The I'nited
I States might find it difficult to avoid
complications.
The. American attitude Is flat find
final. No technicalities will be ad
mitted. Ships must not be sunk with
out warning or without provision for
the snfety of the passengers facing
high seas or distance from shore. The
nrmed-ship Issue undoubtedly will be
advanced by Germany, but will not bo
accepted. Secretary I-a using foresaw
It last March when, without announc
ing bins reason, he decreed that mer
chant vessels could carry a small de
fensive gun. If that endangers sub
marines that is part of th<-ir weak
ness. The United States, anxious, as
a pacific nation opposed to armament,
to Increase the power ?f submarines,
recognizes their shortcomings. es
pecially in their vulnerability if sur
prised nnd attacked.
The future of the submarine situa
tion is felt to rest entirely with Ger
many. With the American attitude
known, the next step must come from
Vtrrlin. Two posslbilltle:? are feared:
I'ither that Germany will decide <?he
.an starve l'.ngland by an undersea
campaign, or that she may endeavor to
involve this, country and thus insure
tho partlclpal ion In peace conferences
ef a generous enemy inclined toward
just peace termr..
M SITANIA cask
it km a i \ s rxsi-vrruin
p.eyond this the I.usitanla ease re
mains unsettled. Germany has ad
mitted liability and offered Indemnity.
Rut the delicate matter of its amount
has not been settled. Attempts made
to close the Issue have beeh blocked
repeatedly by unexpected new U-boat
complications.
The ravages of the IT-fill o(Y Now
ICngland were displeasing to this gov
ernment. but tho incident was viewed
"* (Continued on Socond Pa-KO.) '
? i
1
Send Gijts in Socles
to Men on Border
Red Cross Chapters Throughout
Country to Begin Collec
tion I mmcd lately.
f 11V Associated )
WASHINGTON. November 19.?Thou
; sands of socks stuffed with Christmas
i gifts arc to be presented to the A titer
ican troops at tins border and in Mix
! ico through tin: Iled Cross. Miss
: Mabel Hourdman. head of tlx* organl
I ssntlon, announced last night that chap
ters throughout the country would be
lashed to l?'gin collection of gitth lm ?
I mediately, such artlcb-s as can.! ?.
I tlon? ry, I ipes, tobacco and haudker
| chiefs being preferred. A okfIi fund
: w 111 bo solicited, to purchase t;j
! socks.
ADMIRALTY ADMITS IT
.Make* f > til I ii I Itrport of Torprilui
of I.liter Arnltla liy ??criunn
Submarine.
BKltl.lN, November 10 (via Say
j ville).?The ficrnir.n Admiralty to-day
) admitted for the Ilrst time the tor
1 pedolng by a German submarine of
the I'enlnsular and Oriental liner
Arabia. The following olllcial state
ment was lssu< ?!:
I "The German Admiralty on Novern
; b?-r 1.") reported that a German sub
j marine eighty miles west of Malta
sank a 1'.\00')-toti hostile transport sail
ing under convoy. The British Ad
miralty deelaroa this report Incorrect,
j since no transport was sunk, but the
I liner Arabia was sunk without warn
inby a German submarine fin Novem
ber f.. .TOO mlb-s east of Malta.
?"This is an evident attempt to mis
lead public opinion for the following
i son.*-.
"Ah reported by the German Ad
miralty on November IT., a German
?ubmarine on N'ovmln r "? sank a hos
tile transport of 12,000 tons, eighty
miles west of Malta. The transport
Arabia likewise was sunk by a sub
November fl. 300 miles east
.( Malta.
"The transport Arabia carried a
1"-centitneter kuii, and was carrying
hundreds of workinjrmen for employ.
I merit on war materials lit I'rance.
among whom were Chinese, as well as
Mark and other colored British. If
, the English government permitted
passengers on armed transport steam
ers the lives of noncombatants w* re
frivolously risked in former cases."
LEGISLATURE MEETS TO-DAY
S|iM'llil Sc*?Iiiii (ailed h y Wert Vir
ginia liovrrnur to Consider
'IV n l'ro|??*ltlnnw.
IHv Asio<lnt?d Pros1- !
CHAK1.ESTON. \V. VA? November
IT'?With all members here to-night,
everything Is ready for the conveninrr
of tlx- special session of the iy>p|.sl.-t
t'jr? a' nuon to-morrow to consider the
j t< :i propositions embodied by Gover
nor Hatfield in his call. Supporters of
the Governor believ*- his plans for
changes mi thi- elect ion laws will he
carried owt without delay, while lenders
of the Democratic minority Insist noth
ing should be done until the newly
elected Legislature can act in Janu
i ?ry.
Pred. I. I'ux. Democratic leader In
the House, declared that "\vV He there
ma> I" merit in some of the thintrs
. the Governor proposes, vet we feel that
the people of the State want the new
legislature to pass on them tather
than the present Degislai tire. The
[Governor's proclamation is broad
! eiiouch to bring most anything, even
to attempt to seat Judge Ira K. Hobin
I son as Governor over John J. Cornwell,
I who has been elected Governor. Wo
! believe he will go as far as he can go."
COUSINS FOUND DEAD
Tlielr Mun^led Ilodlen Are Pleked l"p
AIoiik Hallroad Tracks Near
Danville.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
DA.WIIjIjK. VA.. November 19.? The
engineer of a northbound freight train
l early to-dav came upon the body of
| Carl Lee, aged nineteen years, of Pan
j ville. lying by the northbound track
near Brown Summit. Hoth legs were
severed, but T.ee still was livlntr.
; Brought here on the freight, he died
: in the hospital.
Two hours later a locomotive engi
neer tolng south came across the
mangled remains of Sam I,ee, Carl
I.ee's cousin, on the southbound track
at Benaja. The corpse was taken to
? Greensboro, N. <\ Claim Agent S. C.
Cunningham said this afternoon that
an open knife, not bloodstained, was
found by Carl Dee's body. Both men
were mill operatives here. Acnes I.ee,
mother of Carl, said this afternoon that
both youths ate supper at her house
last night, but mentioned nothing about
a railway trip.
FOR GIGANTIC RELIEF FUND
l'oriner Atiilt/iNKurior Derrick fuggewfM
That I'. S. Italse 5l,IMM),(HMI.IMH> to
A Id War SulTercrs.
I'HIDADKDPHIA. November 19.? Cor
nier Ambassador Myron T. Herrick.
electrified a distinguished audience -is
sembled at Ihc homo of K T Stotes
bnry to-night by the suggestion that
the government of the United States
should launch a I once a gigantic pro
gram for the giving of aid to the suf
ferers in all 'he warring nations of
Europe, the . raising of a relief fund
of f 1.00(^000,000, and the co-ordination
.irider a single committee of the lead
ing men of the country, of all kinds of
relief work.
lie suggested that the Stale and Fed
eral governments might give their aid
to the extent of making appropria
tions.
"Were we to set the mark at $1,000.
000,000," he said, "that would h? little
enough for thft extraordinary demands
of this worst calamity the world has
over known."
llUlluiUI ilLOUii
Leaves Chicago in Facc of Gale
on Air Voyage to New
York.
ALIGHTS AT BINGHAM TON
Daring Aviatrix Betters by 100
Miles Distance Recently Cov
ered by Carlstrom.
I My Press. 1 ;
P.INGHAMTON. N. v., November U>.?? I
Attempting '?> nonstop flight from <")?!- |
rauo to N" w York, Miss Ruth I .aw.
? ?i i?l i ?! 14 a Curtiss biplane of the mili
tary scout type, shattered all Amvrl
' n long-distance aviation records f"r
a single Might to-day. when she flow
from '-'h!i;aKO to Hom<-Il, X. V, a dis
tancc by railroad of about. <500 miles.
b?-tterini: by about 100 rnib-.s iii?- record
made by Victor ('arlstrom on Nov* m
ber 2.
A delayed start, aiul a cross wind
?hat rut down her speed and forced
her to d<: < to replenish the gaso
line supply, were responsible for her
failure to r?-ai-h Now York city, Miss
Law sum!, after h>*r arrival at Hing
hamton this mornin:r
Previous t i? to-day. Mi"--" I.aw had
iiovr made a single tliirht longer than
t wc i:' y-fl V-- miles. !'? r machine, a
small biplane. has a spread of wintrs
l<ss than h;.lf that of the one Carl
strom used.
rntsr <?)'_* milks
tnm; w rrnoi r stop
Miss l.aw civi-rftl a distance of about
7*." miles i:. s hours and fifty min
utes. time being deducted for "tie de
?? ii: at llornoll. The first 002 miles,
the distai<?..? 1;. rail between Chit go
and Mornell, v. is made without a sto,
Miss l.iw left '"hie.-iqo at S:2."? A. M.
i eastern time, ,-<rt? r being delayed by fx
1 pertinents with tli?? I'arliiii'ftor for an
| hour and a half In the time thus lo?t
th ? avia'rix might have covered the
remaining distance to New ^ ork.
At th?- outset of her tliirht. a strong
wind blew towar 1 the ea.-t. Aided
ti\ th s she made an average speed of
H>n miles an hour at ati altitude of
; ?hout <.?>''0 feet. During the lust -''0
miles, before the stop at Morn-ell. a
i sharp cross wind bb w, with the result
? that her gasoline tank was soon emp
tied. She glided two miles into Hor
nell at 2:07 1'. M.
After replenishing h< r supply of
gasoline Miss I.aw ll.-w the remaining
117 inib-s to Pinghamton without mis
| hap Here darkness forced her to de
; scenil. .-'lie intends to continue to New
York to-morrow morning.
lkavks i.v k\cf.
OK SOI TIIW l-:ST 1JAI.K
CHICAGO. Novoinbt r 10.?Ruth Unw,
daring aviatrix. flew out of Chicago
on the wings of a stiff southwest gate
to-day.
The high wind delayed her departure
t almost four hours, but at 7:'-5 A. M..
? despite the fury of the gale. which
' experts declare would have discour
! aped any other aviator. Miss l.aw shot
I into the air. Two spirals over Crant
' Park and -he was away flying due
south at a speed estimated at 17.0
miles an hour. Her Curtiss "baby
biplane" seemed to be working per
! fectly as she disappeared from view
i to the southward a minute later.
Miss U?w had worked from shortly
after 3 o'clock this morning testing
out her machine. With her three
mechanicians, she went over every
holt and stay of the machine. Then
she circled the park twice to try out
\ her encines before letting her assis
tants till the gasoline tanks.
Miss 1 aw, who is making the flight
under the auspices of 'he Aero Club
, of America, was confident when she
left Chicago that she would break thf*
record of Victor Carlstrom. who tlcw
to New York recently in twenty-tiveJ
; hours and forty-six minutes. She
hoped to maintain an average speed of
127> miles an hour.
The aviatrix dressed for cold, biting
weather. Over stilts of silks ami
chamois, she wore two woolen suits
and outside garments of heavy leather.
Two woolen caps and a leather licl
tnet hid her hair.
Reports from Indiana points where
Miss Law was sighted soon after she
left Chicago showed that at times she
was making more than two miles a
minute. In the first hour and forty
two minutes she flew 1'": miles. She
crossed the Ohio State line and passed
over Pryan. Ohio, isn miles from Chi
cago. at 0:1?. Lima City, Ohio. 2M
miles from Chicago, sighted her "..."Cut
feet above the city at '.' <?> o'clock.
"I do not know any such word as
?lose.'" said Miss Law as she entered
her machine on the lake front here.
"1 have the utmost confidence. The
only thing 1 am afraid of Is whether
my light scout machine can carry the
fifty-three gallons of gasoline 1 am
taking. No one can tell how any
machine will act tinder pressure or
when in tricky nir current, but if I
can oiico g"t my altitude and a good
j start I believe 1 will succeed."
j And then she stopped on the ac
celerator and shot into the noifwester.
j AK.no CM 1? <?! VKS CltKIIIT
KOIl NONSTOP HHCOItn
, Illy Associated Press. I
MOW YORK, November 1r?,~- Kly lug
from Chicago to Hot noil. N. ^ a dis
tance of r.nti miles In an air line. Miss
Ruth Law established to-day a new
American record for a nonstop cross
country airplane journey, the Aero
Club of America announced here to
night.
"Miss Law deserves great credit for
this (light." said a statement Issued by
Alan It. Hawley, president of the Aero
Club. "She has mado an extraordinary
record."
Americans Determined to Bring
Sessions of Joint Commis
sion to Early Ciose.
WILSON APPROVES ATTITUDE
Cabrera Proves Stumblingblock
in Way of Agreement on
Border Control.
I My A - I .t~>! IT.-, 1
! WASHINGTON. Nom nib. r 1!> Ann
, oil w i ;b i?i? -?it Wil. >?? > .otnple:,.
I approval (if his eour: S"< ?;???! :i 1 y l.atie
1 will return in Atlantic < <ly to-morrow
deter irii ne?l to hr*nK 'It, sessions of tli??
| A merlean-Mex ic.i n Joint < "onim ission to
! mi early conclusion 11.? is .still hope
'ul that'an agreement a- to the horde.
i situation can !>? r-r- i? 1.< i lmt it was
? dearly indicate I to-ilav in otHctal cir
! ? 1 !i that !'.?? joii t . ? ? nf? r .-rii-.- is ? nter
: lug on its tin a I phase, agreement or no
. akreemerit.
; If tin' ? -on i in i j-i 111 ? i'nil i! !:r.p"fsi
i Me to formulat< a p!;.i the \ i. w taken
here will !>e that ill' pros) of S'H
tllng border disputes throuuh diplo
I maey will be remote. Secretary Lane
| is understood to have f >u;.d I 'resident
! Wilson, Secretary Lansing and Secre
j tary Maker in full accord w.tli him on i
| every point w lien 1,. laid l,. tore them i
'last night, in a (lire.--hour conference I
; at the will If; Mouse, a rev:i w of the '
? fforts tiie American commissioner.-;'
! had made to reath a settlement.
I LANK Wl'llil, I'liKA ">KII
WITIl < 'OM-'f.UKM K
Mr. I.ail' said to-d.ty h.- was well
pleased with the results of the While!
Mouse conference, but would not other- i
wipe comment.
It is an open secret that Luis Ca
brera. Corranza Minister of Finance,
and president of the Mexican commis
sion, has proved the stumblinghlock
'in the way of reaching an agreement,
''?mniistloiii-ra I'onilla.s ar.d Pani, it is
Ivai have been ready to approve sev
eral ? .Afferent suggesti >i>s for co- '
operative 'ction. C.ibrcra, however.
, lu ld out for co.itrol of any joint opera
tions by a Mexican military comman
der, a concession the American co:u- 1
mlssioncrs did not f.-el warranted in j
making.
It is believed here that the American !
l otniaissioneis have now abandoned |
the effort to frame an aure' tii'-ni satis
factory to the Mexicans in every detail,
j and will renew to-morrow their orlgi
} nal suggestion. that each government
i patrol its own fcide of the line inde
pendently, but with the understanding
that American troops will pursue into
' Mexico on a hot trail any ha rid Us who
1 attack bonier towns. Coupled with
; that suggestion, presumably, w.?s the
? statement that General Pershing's
I forces would be withdrawn gradually
from Mexico, and that no large force |
would be sent norosK. the line again.'
i unless the de facto government per
? milted raiders to assemble in such
force in Mexico that a strong expedi
tion was necessary to prevent a sort-'
j ous attack.
j AMKllICA.V K\l'i:i)ITIO\
OK NO .STUATIICIC V \I,IT, j
Army officials believe that the Ameri- 1
jean expeditionary force soon will be i
! moving toward the border, regardless j
of the turn events may take at \t
Jiintie City. In its present position.
, many oliicers holri, the expedition would
| be of no strategic value should general
hostilities break out, while the long
line of communication with tin advance
i bases is a constant source of danger,
| and more or less vulnerable at several
! points.
MRS. GUNTON SEEKS DIVORCE
Mnrltnl Trouble* of Aged 1'nlr Will Tie
Aired In Until County
Court.
ISpeci.il to The Times-Dispatch.1
MOT SI'UIVOS. VA., November 10.?
, Mrs. Uebecca 1 >. <lunton, of Mot Springs,
j to-morrow will begin action for divorce
against (ieoruo Gunton at the o;?. nlng
of the November term of the circuit
it'ourt of Path County, on statutory
j grounds, .lames T McAlister, of Mot
j Springs, and George M. Keverconib, of
i Covington. Va., are attorneys for the
. plaintiff.
Mrs. < lunton. who is more than sev
enty years old, was the widow of Wil
liam I: Lowe, of Atlanta. Ga., a i
wealthy financier, who died in Ifmi. j
She is a suffragist, and was president j
for many years of the General Fedora- '
tion of Women's flubs. She married'
Mr. Gtinton in Lewisburg, W. Va.. on :
; .1 line ft. 1 !>l)7.
Mr. Gunton is an Kiiglishmau and
came to America in is" I. In 1 f?0 he '
became president of the Institute of
Social Kconomics, .ami editor of the
Social Keonomist, which, in 1 ;?<>??, va:;
?changed to Gunton's Magazine, of
which h?> was the editor. In )X*l!> he]
| was appointed international director!
! of economic work for the Young Men's
i Christian Association. Me i:; the au
thor of several books on social econ
omy, an,| is seventy years old. The
! couple lived at "Gunton Ledge," M-'t
i Springs, until -Inly, l!M5, when they
separated, M i :i. Gunton giving "in
j compatibility of temper" as a reason
| for the separation.
V Mrs. Gunton has two children by her
tirst marriage, llaroness Rosen Wrantz. j
of London. and William It. Lowe, of j.
New York. Mr. Gunton has several j
children by bis first marriage.
GEORGE W. DENNY DEAD
l-'ur Yearn Wn* Managing Kditor of
Knoxvlllr Journal and
Trlbiiue.
I My Associated l'rf sw.l
KNOX VILLI?, TKNN'., November 1!?.?
George W Denny, for years managing
editor of the Knoxvllle Journal and
Tribune and correspondent of the As
sociated Press died tlilH afternoon, fol
lowing an illness of two weeks.
Committee Begins
Hea rings on Railroad
Legislation To-Day
Questions 11 hicti Congres
sional Investigators IVill
I a he L p Go to Heart of
I ransjjorlotion Problem.
W.XS.?X.jT.1.V. N..~..r (.|>n.
?i*>.'ional investigation into the bro
nu??u?? of ?..v,
",>mr" ?f n.?..r
i rrir is, surest..,, ,,y ,.r, w
son in his os,.,,. ,,
? ?.I'Mr- v- 1 o t i?.- ) .. ?
> ?1 s a i o 11, t?o t ? j j,. *
, ? to-rnutr* w I? r
a J'Mfit m 111 ? ?.. cr ......
Hepresenta 11 vi ?... -V-nators and
Altliouuh i!i.. j?v, t| ,|
?horlzed l.-f. ... , WJ'"
bv the . "n . au-nofl vtril;
LTTOat lil'OllUM'llMDils ?
...
Uo..? V, ,, .u.?
? rt i! til.ii iun OI Wau-.s i... ji, i,.
< onim-tee i ?..r.uiis.sio,, a mi b-ris
,,,0,,.
, ,,k" "" L- "? Mm. I,..;.,., ?f {h?
ra?M-r,a,i"? .-i.l. ,, , ,1;
Probably will ha v. . r. ? .
in <??.. s inri'j.-ii.-f
..II ti,.- Kin.j..., ?t ?MVl.ni.
in.nt an.I own..; -hip.
"t "
-
mists. l?a<!i..-v of i i ... ,
, ' an<I jilt'i.'ultu,-'.,
>M|.l>eis and bankers. will I,.. h.ard
i ll'- |> , . e.l
to Co.mr^s by .January v. !:1|1,
fort may be ,o put through So
lution be for.' th? session on.,, Mlir,h
?. after which the lulmlnis-ration w,U
House" ^ Pr"St'nl '":iJ"n!-v ?? <>?*
Tli.. resolution for the inveat^ation
?,UIU' ?" til.- eoncliisioii of many months
Of effort on ti,.. part ?f railroads ami
others intererie.l itl questions affect inM
to hnv. a comprehensive ,i,<,uirv
?'?>"*??? of government tontroi.
i.ast i>i:ci:miu:ii sn;t;i;s'r,:n
commission ??i- i\<ti |ltv
'''' sitlent U !,oUi in hi(J a,,||rr.:<s
< ..iijrr^.ss in I ?> c.-mber, 1 called ...
lontion to the need in th;:. language;*
Hi.- tran.spoi - t ion problem i.m uii
n,T,V a'"' l?'e.?.sins one
? tins eountry. There ha, f,o,?
to tune of reason to f..?r th- t
.< hlf to ,u,m- w.th it HU.eo.-fulij
?" IT.sent ,(|llippcll
that it woul.l I... wise to pro-'
lor a commission of iii.(ui>> t.?
asc rtam by a thorouUi ean.ass of ,he
?lio.?- nu-stion u li. titer cur laws .,.s at
"resent frame,i an.l admlnl.stcivd (r.^
??s serviceable as ?|icy iii!kIi| ,M
the solution t.f tln> problem
"It ?.?< obviously a probl..,,, ti.at lie,
;'t th, very foun.laiion of y
t'.". 1'!':"' " an Itl'iuit-y oUKht
. ''v, i y ein u?i ;an. . aml
opl.don worth .'on:,10..rit.
need to knew all fl.bs of ?lt. jf
w.mean to ?lo anything in the li.-bl
r.1,1 l,'fisia,i?n- o,.... i
would Wish to take any I,, .Uwiiri| st. o
1 ???,,'?ticn of i be r:< ilwavs oj tlo
eoun, ry by Kcrtor.u Iri
???1 admirable r.-HUliH a,.I has fwiu
Jii-stme.: t l,e bop,., and . ,?J
those by whom the pol, . of r.-mikt
M"at! originally |?roposed. The
?lUestion is not what .should we umbr'
It is whet he, t licr.? is anyihluj; ehw
we ran do that would ftipplv ,i.s wit',
effective means, in ihe very proeess
oi rejruki I ion. for h. tt.-rin- n.,,
"ons under wl-M, the railroads a,.
operated, and fot ,?;,kln,
useful servants of the count, v ,
whole. It scents, to in?. that jt' nilplu
be the part of wisdom, therefor... b. for.
further legislation in this ibid Is at
tempted, to look it the whole ptoblem
of co-ordination and el'leicn.y i? the
full lifiln of a fr. si, ...Hsi'ssmeni of cir
cumstances and opinio,, as a puide to
.1. ulniK- Ill, ti .? several parts of i, ?
ttKSOl.l Tlov \ lini'i|.;i)
"I \ MON'I-Hs- |. \ ||; | j
months later the joint resolution
was adopted. It provides for the ,p
polntniei: i ..f 1-v. Senators and Kep,,..
Se" t a t i V . "I., ill vest IJJ.it. I1,.' silbje.-t
III. u.-x. ri: me nt eenirol and r.?ul.,
"??I, ,i,t. and foi-eiKi- 11.
11:11 II ? clli, ieney the e.xis.ii.1K
vst,,,, in prot..-tlnR the rlirhts
shippers and carriers, and i., prou.ot
ii'-: th. piil.l.e intei est, the ineorpora
I'on or control ..f the alio,, .
? .in ters, an.; .11 proposal .
? I'- "I'lfa i,iy.? t ion o. I he I 'it.'! sta , e
? "iniiiei.e Commission. ai?d the a t |,,
>1 I l t . i o!|| ill.' I'Ce. also the Sll l.Jec t i'j f
?ov.?rnincnt ownership of public oiii,.
II -S. such as t. b'j:i-aph, u ir.-l. ,? .b|e.
plioti*'. express cojnpanie;, and rail
roads cnu.iKcd in Interstate in.I ,
. :?n ouiinor. . . and report as u,..
wi.-dom feasibility of
ownership ,.f sue], utilii,e? as to
"mpa , 111 ve worth am! tli.-ictir v
"f Kovernm.iit i-e?ulatio? an.l e-.i,"
trol as compared with ^overnii.c
ownership and operationrow.-r was
Kiven Ihe cotniiiit tec to s!t dui-m a
"ft onur.'ss and t ?? summon
witnetses and t.. ,..,11 ?over..n,..?t
agencies for assistance. Th. m.,? of
sLN,(m>U was appropriated for ex
pense!).
I mler the resolution the following
members were named on the .onnn't
lc-: Senators .Vewlands. eh.iirman
Uohlnson. I'nd.'r wood. Cumn.ii.H and'
Mr.- nde^ee; |te|.r.-sen ta 11 v.. Adamson.
Suns. <'tillop, lOscli and Hamilton, all
comli'K from the Interstate Commerce
Committees Of the two houses.
,r? Its announcement of the heur
iim'.s -lie committee said it would con
sider the subjects as follows:
? The . feet of Royei nment control
and regiti. >,1 of interstate and for
eiRii transfio .?latlon." and under this
head;
"The eniclenny of ihe exisllnK *>?*
(Continued on Sooond"PaKoi)
2,1 28,476 Russians
Lost Since June 1
J
Ill'.ltl.lV. \o\ euilier in t \ in Snr
vlilrt,?'I Hi- srmiotlifii'i 1 r.i iiMiteon ti
\.h lliiri'HH iiiioti'M t It?? i entral !
Iderit Miration lliirenii of Kli-i its '
Minting l lilil llir n IMII In-r of ltu??lnn |
rllMiiliitli'H ?dace .Inin' I dI tlii.H j ?'nr I1
Imil rriit'iii'il I olllcer* unil .
LMl.TA'to .urn, ii toinl oi '.Mi's.lVtt.
\ iniinu I In* superior ullli'i'm ro- ,
fi n 11 ,V llliii'll. it Is Hllld'll, hitc line
f.i-ii?? r:iI of :? lirigtirie, four ciiioiii'lii
null four lli-uf ?'?tntit-coloiit-l*, com
iiwiiidt-rs of ri'siiiicnN. If is iikr
nisi- <tati'il lliut part of tIi?" itusnliin
forci'* In tin I utii'liNiin recentI> lia\e
lii-en I rnuHfcrifil to tin- I'.u ropcun
tlii-litiT of t\ur.
Impressive KvotIkps Take IMnee In
llrimtl Streel Methodist
('lunch.
HIG C'ONOUKfJATlO.V PItKSBXT
Smaller ('la'- 11>v?*??(???! With Killers'
Orders l.asi Night at l'ark I'lnee
M(>tlui(list Ch ti r r h?(,'onference
Members Occupy l.ornl Pulpits.
He fore a. large audience in the
Broad Street Meth uli.st ?*hurcli yester
day morning. Hishop .John C. KIIko,
the presiding ollh ? r of the KMth nicot
ine of tin; Virginia Con ference, or
dained niti.-to. n preachers to be dea
cons. John Marshall and William
?l.uiit'.'i Craddock wore ordained local
deacons. The other seventeen, I,. S.
Klournoy, Willi a;n il Kattsinnn, Jacob
.1. Clarke, Kdwaril M. IHgginhotham.
t Thorna;-. t:. Pnugiion, Charles H. Mf
Neil, Henry W. Neville, S. W. Wilkin
son. Wil'.iam I'. Province, l.oon W.
111 tiriekson, 11. M. Malone. Wiliiain K.
Cunniajzh.il;). Juries M. Mooney. Kdgar
j G. Hill. 1.. 1". Callnhaiu, A. I.. Steven
j son and A. Tucker ?cri ordained
i traveling1 deacon*1.
The ordination service took place at
, the conclusion of the sermon. l?ev,
j T. McN. Simpson. I ?. !>., presiding elder
j of the Itichi'iond Histrict, read the
apostolic exhortation to deacons. Lay
| .iK his hands on the heads the catuli
? l.ites in turn as they stood in front
i ot the altar railing, P.ishnp Kilgo pro
i.ounced the rit n.i list ii' commission:
"Take thou authority to i rcise the
j ollice of demon in the eh lit ?'li of Cod.
j in the name of the Pa titer. and of the
' Son, ami of ihe ll> ly lihost. Amen."
Then ha Vllig the ca lid id:i t e?- place 'heir
hands on the iiihle, Pishop Kilgo ro
i pcated. "Take thou authority to read
tii - Holy Scriptures in the church of
'????I and to preach t ho same." flev.
i:. I', l.ip.sconih, 1'. I),, secretary of
the Virginia Conferem-e, presented to
? ?ach deacon a certltlcato Mating his
?rank.
IIIMI ill' Kll.iai I'ltl'tl Ill's
to i. \iu.i: ,\i iiii-.mi-:
j Hishop Kilgo preached yesterday
morning from the text. "And 1, if l
be lifted up 'rom the earth, will draw
nil men unto Me. This lie said, sig
nify ing what death Ho should die."
The church was packed to its full ca
pacity of 1.200, many people were
standing. and others were turned
away from the doors.
Ilov. M. S. t'olonna. i >. I , of Peters
burg. preached last night :>! Park Place
Church from the text, ? must In
crease. but I must ih ? n-ase." After
the sermon Pishop Kibjo ordained C. '
P.ell, II V. ?'lark, I' W Kt.tr la ml, A
\V i.inthicutn, William A. ? ?rs. r, John
1 P. Peters and John William Windish
lo lie ?.hi i s Assist inn ill the c re
j moiiy wer? I lev. J. Solip y I'eters, i;?v.
!l ?Pfelff.-r. Uev. John Busman and
Ue\ I!. !?' Upseomb. IV 11.
P.ishop Alpl'.eus W W lson, ot Paltl
uiore, a visitnr al the conf ?reiuv*.
| p:. ached yesic?day morning al Monu
ment .Methodist Chureh. Methodist
preachers from out of the city, who
are attending the meeting of the con
feiM-nc. preached in a large ntirnhrr
of Cichiiiond churches ysterilay. Hev
I .uke K Todtl. i?. I', of St. I.ouis, Mo..
>nt iiiued his serl* ?<f lectures on "The
! i no to Win <>nv Camp'inn" at :>
j o'clock ycjuerdav afternoon and al N
! ..Mock last n't-'iit al 11Broad Street
?Church. 1I-* will '-otii lui!" ihe series
! al x o'clock l his e\ filing
i The ni-inoi ia I rervice in honor of
? ill. hop |-Yaiic i V i'Uiy ill be held at
ihe Proad Street I'hur.-h to-day at \
j l/l'lni 1<. The woi k ??f the Kp\v rlli
ll.eaglie t!! be P'e -tiled al I 1 !'<
I o'clock tins mot tling. I? is expe 'ted
th.it Ihe bin I to- . of Hie conference
j will he concluded to-niort'ow, and thr.t
lliie tneetinv will close \? ith the rend
I ing of the appointments o\ the l-ishop
I t o- inol'i'ott evening.
1 APPEAL TO UNITED STATES
'('an llrlli I" llring'nn A Imiil World of
I'eneo, Snj ? Premier of
t iiiiiiila.
I Ity .* s-.M.-1 11 .-a I
NKW V i?I' !x, November |v An ap
per* I to the t'nit.d S'ales, a gr-at neu
Irtil nation, to aid in deiln;-ng law and
right in such terms that world peace
might he inaiutj inod, w: s taitde ii> ;>ir
Kobfrt I.uii I llorden. premier of t'iin
a<!n, in an address at a luncheon given
In*Ills honor at the I..nvyor/ Club h?re.
The pc-a<'e which the entente allies
seek. Sir Hubert added, I*, au abiding
one and not an inconclusive one. The
club elected iho 1 rennet* an lionorar\
life member.
MONASTIR FALLS
BEFORE ADVANCE
Their Principal Macedonian
Stronghold Is Lost by
Teuton Forces.
VIPThpy nfj AIWVFRS^Y
OF ITS CAPTURE BY SERBIA
Further Roumanian Aclvancc Re
ported hv Bukhrrest and
Petrogrnta.
qi u/r at.onc; sommk fkont
Adjutant Dorme Rrlntis Down His
Sixteenth German
A i? :>luno.
I.< November 19.?Monnstlr
fa Men to the allies.
To tho strain- ?f the Serbian nation
nl hymn tho remnant of King Peter's
"nnv * "'elock ii,,; morning, in arch
"1 thr.oi^h tli,. .?h< ll-,i.|.u...| gates of
tlw Macedonian city, whence a year
? i?:o. they Ho.| j|, hunger j,t._
fore thegre.it '!'? ni"ii -1 !,jl<a Ha n steatn
1 At i fu- ln-ad nf the victorious
troups ro.ie Crown Prime Alexander,
fojuvenator of the little Malkan klng
doms soldiers, and sid ? I.v side with
them ma relied French raiments with
whose aid this :irst great step toward
the recomiuest of Serbia was accom
plished. He,c and there in the long
line of the t-iun.phal march a row <?f
| Muscovite "Tchakos" towered above
| the helmets of steel. Th-ir owners were
j members of the Ku.-*slan contingent
, which also co-upcrated in tho encir
, . i-in-nt ot th.^ great Bulgarian strong
I held. A few minutes after the first
| battalions had entered, the Serbian
.colors, red, blue and white, once more
tin tiered from the mast tops on Mona
| stir s governmental and municipal
' buildings.
i : \TUV O.N ,\ X \ | \ i :it s \H Y
OF CAI'Tl in: ||y SKHHS
The entry was peculiarly timely, for
? to-day is the anniversary of the cap
ture ut tho city by the Serbs four years
ago.
i 1 he. i reii4.li War tJtllce was the first
i to te11 the news of the groat dticcess.
It was dashed broadcast by telegraph
j and radio, and a few hours later tnes
'?"His fi oiii ail entente capitals told
of unbounded jubilation.
"Troops of the army of the Orient."
j said the F.onch otlicial announceineut,
j "entered Monastir at ,s o'clock this
1 morning."
I'.arly in the afternoon word came
from Merlin that the Herman War Of
tico had conceded the loss of the Mace
? loniati base.
?Herman and Unitarian troops," the
otlicial statement re:*!, "have taken up
a position north of Monastir. Mona
stir is thus abandoned."
The city lies eighty-five miles north
west fit Salon.ki. its oe nnation canio
as the climax of a bitteriv tenacious
battle in which attackers and def-iid
? rs rivaled in gallantry timl stubborn
ness. l he defence became untenable
alter the Franon-Serbian tot *es had
w rested the naturally powerful posi
tions on the Cerna Itiver from the Mul
; i;ar? and Hermans, at the same time
smashing the southern approaches.
.Screening the irradu.il evacuation of
; tho <*ity. the defenders battled stub
bornly for every ineii of ground in
the cerna Men (ft Kven now fighting?
there is in full swing. Tho Fronch
1 War Ofiice reports the repulse of new
! Mulgarian conn tern ttacks against lull
I-1-* it was the possession of
j Shis height, taken on Friday, that gave
| the Franco-Serbian artillery the most
important vantage points io scud its
j <?>?-.trti11\hail into Monastir proper,
j Merlin this afternoon admitted further
Piouress i>y the French and Servians
"" ''??? hill. The Serbians to-day c:ip
tuie.i ihe summit of another important
h. i.-ht. No. IS7s. To the east of the
riv-r th.y completely enveloped Hrti
nisht?
"The enemy." says the Maris War
? Oh e, is tailing back in disorder to
ward the north, pursued by tho Ser
j blHUS."
?.hi:.\ti:nt m imi-:\ i;.iii-:vr
OF MX I'M .NTH TIMS KAI.I,
The fail of Monastir to the allies is
regarded her.- ..s the greatest lchiove
ment of I In entente arms this full,
overshadow mg :i ;:ior-il r . : ;s even
j the s'.i ?? esses on the S ?mine. .Military
experts concede that :! is a victory
of moral rather than strategic Im
portance. II.hi the I'io'.v leer, -truck
;? iia iili or two earlier, it is believed
tliit i; would h.tv. tremendous effect
on the whob military .situation in
the Malkans. Coming a* this late date,
ho\.e\er, on the eve of winter, it can
not tie expected to usher in a head
long advance northward. Its InCucnco
oil the chief .itni of toe allied Mace
donian campaign, namely, t!ie cutting
of the . trient i ilway, is i-il. The .lis
tanee from Monastir to \is!i. where tho
great railroad swings eastward into
Bulgaria, .is no le;,; than it;:, miles.
Inniinierable mountains. impassable
during winter, blo -k the advance.
In two respects, how. ve . the cap.
ture of Monastir is an accomplishment
of I nest 'triable value.
First. For Ua moral effect, in u..h?r
?iig in on the face of it tho reconqneKt
of Serbia, to which the entcnto in
pledged, and in shewing what may be
done next spring.
Second. As n ^recantloi.ary step to
strengthen the allies' front in Ma.-e
lonia against any possible winter
thrusts by the Uulgaro-T-titon army, v
I on astir hi their hands, the aliftyi
have now a straight second line to
?
