f- ;;
FINANCIAL EDITION
jjSTRAT,
HMtger
NIGT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
itttenmn
V
you m.-NO. G8
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1010
CorrstonT, iota, kt Tim l'cu.to I.tnan Counw,
PRICE ONE CENT
v -v"
C
PENSION PROBE
HALTED IN 1914
BYJOHNC.BELL
i -
As Attorney General He
Refused to Take
Legal Action
ASSISTANT HANDLED
ENTIRE CASE, HE SAYS
'Declares He Merely Gave
Official "0. K." to Sanction
for Mutual Life
BETTER TELLS STORY
Photo by Gutckunat.
JOHN C. BELL
Two years ngo the Insurance Depart
ment of Pennaylvant-i wanted to tako the
tctlon against tho Pension Mutual Life In
wrance Company, of Pittsburgh, that It
li taking now, anil mas ovorrulod by John
a Bell, of this city, then Attorney Cen
tral of Pennsylvania.
The present Insuranco Commissioner pre
dicts that tho stockholders of tho company
will lose nearly ?1,000,000. Tho depart
ment's Investigation Is expected to estab
lish that all the monoy lnveste-1 In tho
i wjd&any In tho last two yearn would liao
bus aaed to the Investors If the Insur
ance department had-boen permitted to havo
III way in 1014.
The Stato Insuranco Commissioner in
UH was Charles Johnson, of Norrlstown,
ind the Penroso leader of Montgomery
.County who resigned last spring, uliegtng
that the Brumbaugh wing of the Republi
can party was attempting to coerce him
Into working against Penrose.
As Insuranco Commissioner he wanted to
do tho very thing his successor, J. Denny
O'Nell, Is doing now; that Is, bring the
nutter into the Dauphin County courts and
make tho company show causo why the
Insurance Commissioner should not tako
possession of Its property and liquidate Its
business.
The Attorns;' Oenoral then was John
a Dell. In a letter published below, he
turned down the request of the Insurance
Commission, refused to apply for a receiv
ership on behalf of the State, but on tho
contrary advised tho Insuranco Commis
sioner 'that it would bo proper to Issue to
the Fe'nslon Mutual Life Insuranco Com
pany a, certlncato of authority to transact
the insurance business in Pennsylvania.
riECLAUED INSOLVENT
The Isuranco Commissioner asked Mr.
Cell to take tho matter Into the courts
after receiving a report from his examiners
who had investigated the affairs of the
company,
The examiners reported that the Pension
Mutual Life Insuranco Company, according
to the appralsalB placed on Its bondholders
Continued on Face Xlfht. Column One
THE .WEATHER
WEATHER FORECAST
tatii on new dftcoverv In tolar fhvslci lu
VriLUB L. itOOltH and IV, V. CAllOTUHItB
Forecast for Pennsylvania :
Sunday, November J4 to Tuesday, No
vember 38 The first half of tho week will
te unsettled, with snow, and with season
ably cool temperatures.
Wednesday, November S9 It will be fair
around midweek.
Thursday, November 30, to Saturday, De
Mmber ! Snow Thursday will precede a
wol movement, This will clear the weather
"Way and bring- hard freezing tempera
tures. The general weather movements due:
A cool movement la due to develop. In
'northwest United States November 29; It
will be an average to strong movement, with
general preolptutlon In advance; snow In
the North and showers In the South, fol
lowed by twenty to thirty degrees colder
and clearing In all sections.
Another movement Is due December 2,
u4 Is expected to unite generally with a
preceding cool movement
GOVERHMENT FORECAST '
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
tonight and Tuesday; moderate temper
ohrra tonight, with lowest about forty
five degrees; somewhat colder Tuesday;
gentle westerly winds,
T.TTVn'W n T1AV
lua Mt 4 iO p m-lMooa soutbs 7.19 a.m.
DKLAWAHK BIVXK TIDE CHANQKS
riiffSTMiiT nruppp
. water , 4 It am Ur. water.. 4.p.m.
"rt water 83T. m.lHUr& water.. 9.43 p.m.
TEiiPKnTrniv. at vtnr liomx
JEQUIOI 111 121 II 31 3
TTS
JtLLiil 621 631 Ml SOI 671 67TI
Do Nat JFaU to Read "The VcanKojld," a J&fsstr Serial
U. S. S. MEMPHIS ON ROCKS OFF SANTO DOMINGO
PI &)a-iK mHH
" KWBffjK? tB1Lti i -v" if K3HH
1 ,- . r & m t k HAftiSMflifHilaHaBv!BaBfiEtnK tVySJA AwfoB IS Vt x
Survivors of tho wreck of tho U.
charge that tho disaster was duo
TRAINMEN CHIEFS
MEET PRESIDENT
THIS AFTERNOON
Brotherhood Leaders to Be
Received by Wilson as
Inquiry Starts
THIS CITY REPRESENTED
WASHINGTON, Nov. 20. President Wil
son's first step In tho renewed controversy
between the railroads and their organized
employes oer tho eight-hour day was taken
this afternoon, when the President agrcod
to meet the leaders of tho four big railroad
brotherhoods at G 45 o'clock this afternoon.
tV. a. Lee, of the trainmen; AV. 8. Car
ter, of the firemen ; Warren S. Stone, of the"
engineers, and L. S. Shepard, representing
Chief darretson, of tho conductors, will go
to Oie "White House. They aro expected to
tell tho President ery frankly what they
Intend doing If tho railroads Bucceed In
having the Adamson law declared unconsti
tutional. "
Labor and capital began tho opening skir
mish today in wfiat Is expected to be the
greatest Industrial struggle tho United
States has ever known. The cohorts of
each wero lined up for action under their
leaders and began Jockeying for advanta
geous position as the Newlands Joint
Congressional Committee on Interstate
Commerce began calling witnesses In Its
Investigation of railroads utod other carrier
corporations of the nation.
Formal notice woe given the Newlands
Joint committee todayuhat the Philadelphia
Bourse and the Philadelphia Board of Trade
would be represented at the hearings.
A PHILADELPHIA PLAN
deorge E. Bartol appeared for the Phila
delphia Bourse, and Philip Godfrey for
the Board at Trade.
"We mave prepared," Bartel said, "a
brief but comprehensive plan 'which will
provide reasonable regulation, yet will pro
tect the Interests of the three parties In
volved tho public, the workers and the
owners. We shall present It whenever the
committee grants us time,"
Philip Qodley, as chairman of the com
mittee on Inland transportation of the
Philadelphia Board of Trade, said he
wanted to discuss the subject of public
ownership of utilities."
The fight of the operative employes of
railroads In support of the Adamson law
early took the central position in the strug
gle. .
"The "big four" of railway brotherhood
leaders Lee, Carter, Warren 8. Stone and
darretson (represented by L. S. Shepard)
today began a series of secret conferences
oer plans to overcome arguments of the
railroads. Their conference followed a
secret meeting with Alfred F, Thorn, coun
sel for the national advisory committee of
railroad executives. All concerned refused
to discuss the meeting.
OrganixWtlons of capital In every line,
CenUnued en Fate Two, Column Toot
S. S. Memphis, who nrrived at League
to neglect. This picture of tho ship on
of tho crow.
ALLIED FORCES
PURSUE ENEM
NEAR10NASTIR
"Complete Victory," Is Paris
Version of City's Cap
ture by Sarrail
SERBS CLINCH SUCCESS
PAJUSf Nov. 20.
Pursuit of the Bulgarians and German
forces thnt evacuated Monastlr Is confirm
Ins without respite, rays the Trench War
Office today In n communlnuo on Balkan
operations. Six hundred and twenty-two
prisoners and a great deal of booty v,as
captured there. The War Oftlco calls It a
"comploto victory."
Tho final burst of lighting In the great
battle for Monastlr lasted nine days and
culminated when Trench cunlry dashed
Into JIonaBtlr city early jcstenlay morn
ing. Tho War Office reIcws the various
stages of the fighting from the Ccrna llher
to Lake Presba, and describes the arlous
stepH In the encircling movement that vas
In progress all last week Particular praise
Is given tho Serbians for their gallantry In
storming Hill 1378 and Makoo.
The last defensho position protecting
Monastlr on the east side was captured by
the Serbians In a storm attack In the sector
of Dombromlr. The Trench caalry that
entered the fortress pressed on to tho north,
capturing Illll 821 and the village of Kirk
Una. Continued on Tare Tour, Column One
MUST PAY COMPENSATION
THOUGH EMPLOYE WAS DRUNK
State Board Rules That Intoxication Is
Not Adequate Objection
IlAIHUSnUIlG. Nov. SO. The Work
men's Compensation Board today held that
Intoxication of an employe was not a valid
defense for an employer and that It could
not operate to defeat a claimant's right
to compensation.
The decision was mado following an ap
peal presented by the Tempest Brick Com
pany of McKeesport, after the referee, who
heard the case, had granted compensation
to Polly Williams, of Latrobe, whose hus
band was killed while working for the
defendant company.
BUSINESS MAN DIES ON BOAT
W, E, Trainer, Retired Cotton Manu
facturer, Was on Way Here
William E. Trainer, a retired cotton
manufacturer, after whom the town of
Trainer, Pa., was named, died today on the
steamboat City of Wilmington when on the
way to thla city.
As the boat pulled Into the Chestnut
Street Wharr Dr. John Iteming, coroner's
physician, was summoned. He said the
man's death had been Instantaneous.
Mr. Trainer Is survived by a widow, one
son and five daughters.
Island on tho trnnsport Prnlric,
tho rocks was brought back by one
NEGLECT CAUSED
MEMPHIS WRECK
SEAMEN CHARGE
Failure to Keep Steam Up
for Escape to Sea
Intimated
BLAME SHIP'S OFFICERS
Accusations that tho negligence of olll
cera wns rcHpanalble for tho benching of
tho United States cruiser Memphis with the
loss of forty-one lltes In Han Domingo
harbor on August 29 wero mado today bj
former Memphis sailors, who arrived at
Lenguo Island today from tropical waters
on the transport Pralrlc.
These men, who wero on tho cruiser
Memphis when tho ship was drhen on the
reefs of Han Domingo harbor, made public
for the first time the real facte behind
tho Blnklng of the vessel. Their story Is
especially slgnltlcnnt because today Cap
tain i: L. Beach, who was In command
of the Memphis, was placed on trial In
Washington
On tho Pralrlo wero machinery, guns and
other things that the Jackles saved from
tho Memphis Thera wero also some 2,000,
000 or mora nuts, which tho men with
palnBtaklng care had unscrewed from the
armor plate of the wrecked cruiser. The
story of the crew of the Memphis, as they
told It today, had a strong touch of tha
drama of the tropics.
The Memphis was anchored three miles
out In the outer harbor of San Domingo
on August 29. It a one of thoso per
fect tropical days of turquoise skies and
gentle breezes.
According to the men, It Is customary for
all Bhlps visiting San Domingo harbor to
keep full steam up so that In case of tidal
wave or typhoon, a vessel can scoot out
Into the open sea, away from tho treach
erous reefs off shore.
STUAM IN TWO BOILKUS
The Memphis, It hi charged, only had
steam up In two of Its sixteen boilers, and
steam was kept In these boilers Just to
keep the Ice plant going. In order to havo
moved the cruiser, the men say, It would
have been necessary to have had steam
up In at least four boilers When the tidal
Continued on Fas Throe, Column Three
MINISTERS' SONS DEFENDED
Presbyterian Pastor at Conference
Points to Wilson and Hughes
as Typical .
The Rev, Clarence Edward McCartney,
speaking at the weekly meeting of the Pres
byterian Ministers today In the Wither
spoon Building, said;
"All ministers' Bona do not conform to the
old humor of belnsr worthless and no
accounts. In reality, ministers' sons, due
to the perfect environment of the homes in
which they are raised, should in every case
turn out to be the very best of men from
every standpoint
"To give you an Instance, or, I might say,
evidence of this, I point out our own Presi
dent of the United States. He la the son
of a. minister, and likewise Charles Evans
Hughes Is also the son of a minister "
Story ty. George
QUICK NEWS
AUSTRIAN EMPEROR'S CONDITION WORSE
ROME, Nov. 20. Dispatches from Zurich ntsaert that the Aus
trian Emperor's condition hi von.e nnd tlut he 1ms ntAcd toi th
pttpn.1 benediction. Artlval of Gentian speciallhta is awaited.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
rirsl Howie race, inatdon H-year-oldo, 6 furlouge, selling -Ei
Qanison, 101t Kopplcman, !?23.'0O, .fl2.30, $9.10, won; Mcrchaut, 109,
McAtee, $6.b0, ?3.f0, second; Otsego, 106, Sobinson, ?0.10, third.
Time, 1.0 J 20.
88ond Howie race, 2-y ear-aids, 8 furlongs Alvord, 113, Am
brose, ?J.C0, 2,0, $8.20, wmj-'Euclut, IDS, Petroif, 3.30, $2.50,
iCMild; entuo!t7 SjoyJ 113, airbtoiher, 82.50, third, 'I'me, 1.14.
SAX FRANCISCO COUNT CLINCHES WILSON LEAD
NEW VOltlv, Nov. 20 "8an Krnnclsco County completed. All Calffornln electors
absolutely snfe." Tho fori'KoInK telegram wan received tills" afternoon by Ynnco C.
McCor;nlelc, chairman of tho Democratic National Committee, from Gavin McXnb,
Democratic committeeman from Cnllfornla.
HUGHES fiOLKS; SILENT ON PRESIDENT'S VICTORY
IAUHi:i,lN.THIM'INC8, I.nkowood, X J., Nov. 20. Governor Hughes played
Kolf today, Mill withholding nny comment on tho election rolurns. National ltapub
llcan Chairman Wlllcox, who wan hero conferrltiR with tho Iteptibllcnn nominee
Saturday, left for New York, ulso without a atatcmcitl.
ILLINOIS WOMAN WILLS $200,000 TO HER COOK
CAItMHM:, 111, Nov. 20 Kato Mulcahy, who Berved Mrs. John McCnbo ui
cool; for forty-one jeari, Is made Mrs. McCnbe'H heir In tho will Juit probated. Tho
t'Htnto Is vvurtli 1200.000.
I'OSTOl'EICE NEAR PUNXSUTAWNEY ROIIUED OF $1200
I'UNXSUTAWNnv. Va, Nov. 20 Tho postoflleo nnd Rtoro of tho MnhonlnR
Supply Company at Walston, near hore, wero robbed today. Tho loot wns $1200 in
money anil xlninpM. .
SURVIVORS OF WRECKED CRUISER MEMPHIS ARRIVE
The Tutted StnteH trnuxport I'ralrlo arrived at tho Philadelphia Xnvy Yard
toda from H.m Domingo and Haiti, bringing xurvlvorx of tho cruiser Memphis,
which was wrecked by a tidal Itavo In Weil Indian waters several months ago. Tho
I'ralrlo also brought marines who wero wounded by nntpcrs when tho Americans
wero reitorltiB order In Haiti.
NEW ENVOY FROM PANAMA PRESENTS CREDENTIALS
WASHINGTON. Nov. 20. Bollznrlo I'orras, of Panama, former I'rosldcnt of
thnt republic, today presented his credentials to 2'resldent Wilson ns Minister to
the United States. Ho tvns accompanied to the Wlilto House, by ICuzeblo A. Morule.i,
tho retiring Minister., who has been elected President of Panama.
SUPREME COURT AGAIN TO HEAR HARVESTER CASE
WASHINGTON, Nov. 20 HcarBumont
national Harvester Company will bo heard by tho Supreme Court qn Monduy, Feb
ruary 26. The court today fixed thnt dato for tcarRtimont. The Government bad
asked that the hearing bo set for December 11. The caso was argued at tho last
term, but owing to changes: on tho bench the court asked for a rcargumont.
AIR YACHT, LUXURY CRAFT, BUILT FOR LONG VOYAGES
SCW YORK, Nov. 20. Tho nlr yncht bus come. Commissioned by tho,. Aero
Club of America, n gigantic alr-vvatcr craft, D4 feet long nnd 78 feet from tip to
tip of her wings, has Just been built to mako Florida from New York at weekends
nnd tho Bcrmudus whenever wind and water conditions nro especially propitious.
At u recent trial eleven passengers were easily carried. Tho machino Is tho last
word In luxury. Tho Curtlss Company built tha nlr yacht for the American Trans
oceanic Company, of which Hodman Wnnamnkor is prcsldont. Harry I'ayno Whit
ney, however, Is mild to bo the man who authorized her construction and who will
bo tho boat on tho air voynges scheduled for tho near future. A speed of sixty
miles an hour was demanded In the specifications, thli meaning n medium going
for comfort with passengers.
WAR IIOOSTS SIRS. LANSING'S ENTERTAIN5IENT DILL
WASHINGTON, Nov. 20. Because of the war It will cost Mrs. Ilobcrt Lansing,
wlfo of tho Sicretaiy of State, almost tvvlco ns much ngaln this year to entertain
tho diplomatic corps. European hostilities mako It necessary to have tho Entente
Powora' representatives one evening nnd Central rowers' representatives tho next.
Allied representatives won tho toss, so to speak, and wilt bo entertained first.
WILL PROPOSE POPULAR ELECTION OF PRESIDENT
PORTLAND, Ore., Nov. 20. Senator George li Chamberlain will Introduce at
tho coming session of Congress a proposed constitutional amendment providing for
tho election of I'rosldent by direct voto of the people, according to n formal state
ment issued todny. Tho statement says that bo hopes to have It acted upon In tlmo
to become cffcctlvo four years hence.
HANKERS 'AND RESERVE HOARD DISCUSS GOLD
WASHINGTON, Nov. 20. Twelvo big bankers, representing llnunclal America
In their capacity as members of tho advisory council of tho Pectoral Reserve -Board,
met today with the board to discuss, among other things, means of controlling tha
huga flood of gold thnt has swept Into the United States with tho tldo of wur-tlmo
prosperity. Opinions differ sharply. They range from tho doslra on the part of
some bankers to get rid of tho gold to a belief by others that most of it can bo
absorbed In this country without leading to unduo speculation.
LONDON PAPER CALLS FOR NEW nEAD OF BRITISH NAVY
LONDON, Nov, 20. In on article calling attention to Germany's mibmarlne
menaco to England, tho Morning Post today mado' a s,harp attack upotVtho British
Admiralty. The paper demanded a new bead for the British navy on the "ground
that the present one had failed to copo with the evolution' and 'development of Ger
many's sea forces.
SINKING OF FOUR SHIPS REPORTED BY LLOYDS
LONDON, Nov. 20, Llo)d's reports the sinking of two British steamships, the
Lady Carrlngton and the Vusco; the Italian Steamship Lela and the Portuguese
steamship San Nicola. The Lady Carrlngton registered 3920 tons gross. The
Vasco was 1914 tons gross and tho Lola 2987 tons.
ALLIES ORDER FOES ENVOYS FRCJM GREECE ,
LONDON, Nov. 20. An Athens agency special dispatch, asserts Germun, Aus
trian, Bulgarian and Turkish Ambassadors In the Greek cnpltul have been told by
the Allies that they must leave the country by Wednesday",
WELSH SIINERS THREATEN TO QUIT; WAR ON HIGH. PRICES
LONDON, Nov. 20. Dissatisfaction with working condtllons and rising; cost of
living is again causing much unrest amopg the Welsh coal miners. Unless condi
tions ore remedied the miners threaten to quit work for twenty-four hours as a
demonstration of their power. The Government threatens to take oyer the coal
Industry and operate It if the men walk out.
LIMITED FOOD EJIBARGO URGED BY COMMISSIONER FOUST
HARrtlSBURa, Nov JO. James Foust, Dairy and Pood Commissioner, favors
a limited embargo on exporting food products. In a statement be says the way to
prevent a food shortage and to reduce the ever-increasing prices In this country Is
to take this action. The European war Is without doubt causing an Increase in
tho price of food products of all kinds," said the Commissioner. "The way to reduce
the cost or the necessities of life In this country is to put a limit on the exporting of
food products, so as to prevent ashortage of the goods required for our own con
sumption."
Allan England, Which Bejins.on Pg
of tho anti-trust suit against tho Inter
MAYOR TO ASK
STATE LAWS TO
HELP OUT CITY
Bills Now Framing" for
Presentation at 1917
Legislature
TAX REVISION BOARD
IN COUNCILS' SWAY
Method of Assessing Realty
Long Thorn in Municipal
Assembly's Side
OPPOSITION DEVELOPING
Mayor Smith's Plans
for State Legislation
1A bill placing tho Board of
Revision of Taxes undor tho
control of City Councils.
2 Amendments to prctScnt tax
legislation doing away with
the rate on realty clnBscd as "aub
urban" nnd maintaining- tho two
classes of farm and city.
3 Dills to have Stato remit tnx
on city loans, which annually,
during tho next live years, would
save over $1,000,000.
4 Bill to curtail tho power of
tho courts rolntivo to man
uamuslne tho city for salnrios.
5 Amendments to nutomobile
laws, making- all drivers
qualify by an examination for fitness.
6 More stringent laws govcrn-
ing tho salo of firearms.
7 Suggestions nowundcr con
, slderntion includo radical re
vision of methods of assessing realty
for tnx purposes, tho curtullmcnt of
the broad power of tho Fairmount
Park Commission nnd many other
chnnges in existing municipal legis
lation, the need for which has been
made apparent by tho city's prosent
financial difficulties.
Philadelphia's needs and Philadelphia's
demands will be forcibly presented to mem
bers of tho next Legislature. In preparation,
for u campaign for modern legislation
Mayor HmUh , Is at- work on a program
which Includes relief- from many"' of the
Ills from which the cliy, In the opinion
of tho Maor and advisers, now suffer, Sonii'
of tho bills have already been framed,
while others nro yet mattors for discus
sion and conferences.
Tho Mnyor has been In dally touch with
Chairman Gaftnoy, of Councils' Finance
Committee, and with political leaders of
both factions of the organization who 'will
havo elm r go of tho measures after they
have been fully decided upon and framed.
Back of tho bills will be an aggressive,
councllmaulc legislative committee, each
member of which will bo In full accord with
tha reforms contained in measures and
amendments.
So far the progress mado upon the bills
that It Is planned to have presented ha
been kept a closo secret, but It Is under
stood by all fumlllar w Ith the recent Investi
gations made with a view to Improving
tax methods, methods of finance nnd meth
ods of departmental control as compared
with control by the Board or Ilevlslon of
Taxes nnd such commissions as that gov.
crnlng Kalrmount Pork, that many of ths
suggestions mado by the Mayor and Chair
man aaffMy, of tho Finance Committee,
havo bcoTi or will be Included before the
opening of the session.
Tho JIuyor when asked regarding- nli
plans for new legislative enactments said
that he was not Batlsfled with the present
methods of taxation, that Director Wilson,
of the Department of I'ubllo Safety, has In
view amendments to protect the lives ot
pedestrians; and that new revenues would
have to be obtained by methods such as
those outlined by Chairman Gaffney of,
tho Finance Committee,' who favors havinr
the Htute remit taxes on city loans nnd the
pa Ing over to the city of mercantile
licenses. The Mnyor declined to go Into
detail at this time as to all of tho legis
lation, as much of It Is as yet Incomplete
nnd therefore subject to change.
Another reason given for not going Into
any exhaustive discussion ot new legists ,
tlon at this time Is that tlo members of
the committee who will represent Councils
at Harrlsburg have not yet been chosen.
Until the committee Is named no definite
steps toward the winter campaign witl be
taken. Owing to the factional split la
the Ilepubllcan party the personnel of this
councllmanlo committee Is the subject of
grave debate, and already Select Council
man Harry J. Trainer, the Ponrow-Mo-Ntchol
leader of the Third IVqrd, has pub
licly announced that he would pot bead the
committee appointed by Seleet Council and
that he does not even care to serve when
such a committee Is appointed.
During the past few weeks the Mayor
has conferred with Senator Boles Penrose.
Senator James P McNIchol Senator Ed
win It Yare and other leaders relative to
his Diana for State legislation. Upon the
result of future conferences between thw
leaders will depend the final contplexiwt
of the bills tbat are expected not wly
to result in additional revenues, Intt te
material strengthening of ecUtlns law
Naturally tne suoject oemg- given sMr
moat eareful consideration refers to the mm
lattonshlp existing between the Board tf
ltevlston of Taxes and City Councils, At
the present time all councils can do U U
II i lOL
Oo&Uattcd en. Fax Tw, Cstaam Stwm
13ofTMitlan
