THE ARIZONA BE PUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PAGES
.uENIX, ARIZONA, .MONDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 20, 1916.
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 185
WILSON TO TAKE
UPGERMRNSUB
QUESTIONS M
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 19. A porten
tous and complicated international sit
uation now faces President Wilson and
for the next 'tew weeks will engage his
attention and that of his advisors to
the exclusion of all but the most urgent
of domestic subjects.
Krom now on the president expects
to deal with all foreign questions with
out delay. While it is not evident
there will be any fundamental change
in policy, freedom from fear that any
move at all would be misinterpreted us
inspired by an Internal political strug
gle has removed.
The president must decide how the
I'nited Slates shall meet the situation
and restrictions on the other hand:
xvhother the retaliatory legislating shall
be enforced: whether the traditional
theory of isolation shall be abandoned
for concerted neutral action; whether
the country shall have an aggressive
or a passive policy toward the peace
conference; the war after the war; the
permanent league to enforce peace, and
during the rest of the war shall Amer
ica's attitude be governed by benevo
lent interpretation of international law
according to its own best interests, or
shall it be strictly legalistic, regardless
of whom it affects.
The most disquieting problems is the
German submarine situation. Five
critical cases are pending, one involv
ing a loss of six American lives, two
others involving American ships. In
creasingly serious is the fast growing
conviction that any kind of a general
submarine warfare is intolerable. Ger-
Tlianv is knnu-n to He hn tilt in ir toilimn.
rines rapidly and there is the possibility J
of a starvation campaign against Kng
land. The I'nited States might find it
difficult to avoid complication.
The American attitude is flat and
final. No technicalities will ! ad
mitted. Ships must not be sunk with
out warning or without provision for
the safety of the passengers faring
high seas or distance from shgre. The
armed ship issue will not be accepted
secretary Lansing loresaw it last
March when, without announcing his B:ln. has ''e. evacuated bv the Ger
reason, he decreed that merchant ves- man anil BuUariar, fontsand occu
sels could carry a small defensive gun. pied bv he French and a considerable
The future of the submarine situation ! numi er of t-'ens.
is felt to rest entirely with Germany. I The Germans found their position
The next step must come from Berlin, untenable and withdrew, according to
Two possibilities are feared: either Perii'i. to i new pisotion to the north
that Germany will decide she can starve I of Monastir. I'nnfficiiil advices 'rnm
England by un undersea campaign, or Saloniki s.iv tha' a temporary capitol
that she may endeavor to involve this "f rl ia rill be immediately estao
cotintry. and thus insure the participa- ll!,n"'1 Monastir. The railway line
lion in Hence conferenees of a i-enerons 'rom the entente ul!i base at . Salo-
... .... .. . ...
pnpmv t'.evonn in in i iiuirn :i I
enemy. Beyond this, the Lusitanm
case remains unsettled. Germany has
admitted liability and offered indem
nity. But the delicate matter of its
amount has not been settled. Attempts
made to close the issue have been re
peatedly blocked by unexpected new
U-boat complications.
The ravages of the l'-53 off New
Kngl.md were displeasing to the gov
ernment. It was said that continuance
of the practice would not be permitted,
as it would constitute a practical block
ade of American harbors.
flelations with the entente allies are
less clear cut. Seapower has enabled
ineoi wirousn me oi.saue ano ine im-
position ot tne oiacsnsi, virtually to
..ew- a.. I.J.e,K.i u due nosuie uj llieni
and divert ail American commerce to
their own uses. Constant belligerent
ncrnachments on neutral rights have
led President WilBon to say that neu-
..ai lion or-
tome so world-wide, so unlimited as to
national boundaries, that it is no longer
the hostile army, but the hostile stale,
men, women and children, with its out
posts all over the world, that is in
volved. rirsi anu omesi oi tne entente ainea
restrictions is the blockade, which our
government has declared illegal be-
cause it is both ineffective and discrim-
"4"" 1,1 1HV"r ol Norway ana !we-
den in that it does not blockade the
i,auic ana because it attempts to
lilockade neutral ports contiguous to
Germany, to which liritish goods are
a owed to go. The case dates back to
-March H. IM:, and the last note was
the Hrltish refusal of April 24, last.
The rationing of Holland. Norway,
' " '" " ienmark r.as been bitterly
enndemned in the blockade notes, where
it ha been held to be an absolutely
. . ....... " nnu niuti ill I III, HI1HU
un;arrantable interference with neu- not be favored. This gives a control
tral trade directly between the neutral over American industries and a knowl-c-ountries.
(edge of American trade secret that is
I'.ngland invokes the doctrine of con- ' reseated,
tinuous voyage and allows only enough ' To meet these trade restrictions
supplies to either these neutral coun- ' is retaliatory legislation Intensive
triea to meet their minimum needs, des- study is being given it, though no an-
jute the fact that goods are Imported1
111 !1J?i'"lr"! firy. incomes part of (Continued on Pae Six)
WEATHER CONDITIONS IN FRlCE
MUSE LOSS DF MI ILEUS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PA HIS, Nov. PI. Extraordinary
weather conditions prevailing In France
In the last fortv-eleht hours ,i,imim.t..,i
1 vesterdav lr. a ttdi u,..e in i iiif,an" nsn winds In Pans and In other
f Marseilles on the Mediterranean
1'liaxt in tL'hinh munis i.hu.1. f... . n t,.n,l I .
and disastrous gales on the southwest 1
coast of the Atlantic ocean.
According to M. Angol, director of
the weather bureau, the fluctions of
the barometer yesterday beat a!l the
records of sixty years for quick
changes. From 721 miiimetres. which
n n
DISARMING GREEKS I
I ATIIF.NS, Nov. IS, (via Indon,
I Nov. 13.) Vice Admiral Fournet.
commander of the Anglo-French
fleet in the Mediterranean, last i
night presented to the Greek gov- !
I ernment a note demanding the mir-
I render to the entente allies of all I
I arms, munitions, and artillery of j
I the Greek army with the exception I
of some r.o.ouo rifles nuvv In actual !
I use by the forces remaining after I
1 the last step in demobilization. I
I . I
n n
MONA S Tike viCUA TED
BY TEUTONIC ARMIES
WHICH RETIRE NOR TH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PERI. IN, Nov. Ill, (by wireless to
the Associated Press via Sayville).
The Macedonian town of Monastir was
evaocat -d during the night by the
German and Bulgarian troops, who re
tired north to prepared portions.
The news of the evacuation of Mon
astir does not come as a surprise the
Associated Press having been informed
so.ne days ago that the question
whether Monastir's political import
ance was great enough to Justify the
military evacuation.
Monastir is located at the bottom of
a bowl surrounded on all sides by
dominating heights. It was therefore,
tnetkally unfavorable, as soon as the
enemy forces pained a footing on the
rim of the bowl.
Since the opening of thecampaigu
in the Rumanian theater which is re
garded here as the decisive theater of
the who's war front, it was consid
ered .1 coireet decision strategically
and '..actiral'y nor to call upon the de
fenUrs for heavy vaerifices. and ef
forts to h ild the town itself. It is
pointed out in Berlin that Monastir is
likely to be a very uncomfortable
nlace for the entente allied troops, as
the new Bulgar-Gei man positions
command the town in the same man
ner as it was previously commanded
v te encmv guns
Politically, if course, various con
siderations uracil that efforts be made
to retain Monastir, not only because
its piiession by the entente allies
would give t! e Serbian government a
local habitation in Serbian territory
and encouriigrf Genera' Sarrail, com
m uuii r of the entente allied opera
tions in the 'lalkans, aut also for its
political effect in general.
In war. however, military consider
SERBS ON NATIVE SOIL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
After heving been for months men
vvithent a covntry. the Serbians are
awahi to establish their capital on
native soil. Monastir. for v.hich the
entente f ; es have been struggling
-!. th ..rivan. from e,.i. .,
'Vilo nnv t.l;e .Vile'--t h:.nrtc '
- - - - . .
T'-T
t1,rTrJ(!if5of "fiTrtantir lhl
French and Serbian troops continue
to make gains in the t 'erna river
region, having captured several other
towns.
):i the Transvivanlan front, the
Aastro-Gcrman armies continue tr.
make ptrp-ress agaist the Russian and
Rumanian fortes or to hold them back
without gains. Th" latest reports from
Berlin fv tie Teutonic allies have
its capital stock subject to re-exportation
if desired. i
A not less "lawless practice" has been
the allied censorship of mails, which
,)as l(e(,n culi ..vexatlU8iy inquisitor
Hore am. is an absolute con- i
rja .. j, aJlln jH a absolute Con -
fn,.t between ' neutral and belligerent
frpiKhl!,. Nulrals have claimed the
rih. r uun,,inA ,.,.rr..,....i. ...... i.,.i
1KrPnls nave thP rlght to search 'mails j
for CI nit ra lia 111
Obviously, mails can
not be searched and wniolate at the I
same time. A reply Is due from this !
government to the British and French i
note, of October 15, which itself was
over four months delayed. !
! Tha P.ritiuh raf.tl ,,f ih. Amrl...,nl
attitude as to the blacklist will require
answer. The liritish claim It is merely
municipal legislation to prevent their
wn BUbject from dealing with firms
;i;lilnK tne ell(.rnv. xhp i njted ytaU,8
holds that, in effect this is extending
):ritish control over into American af-
fairs.
The prohibition of Importation of
raw materials from the British domin-
ions into this country except under
guarantee that they will not reach Ger-
man firms is another galling restric-
tion since, in its administration the I
liritish .ml. h. ;-..n., I
tt.i.u, ,. ...u..:
already was 3a below normal, it
dropped 44 miiimetres in 3fi hours,
'. Sri,,w fell heavily along the liritish
,"ttl.'e. fr."nt ani1 thtr" tr "'vy rains
parts of France.
At Marseilles all the cabins on Catal-
wav esniM,,','., ''.r-'1'15', and ?e h'Sh
,nu ,la C-onnche road. stop-
ping the street cars.
I The storm beat all records for vi
olence on the Mediterranean coast.
Wilson Makes Plans For A
Very Simple Inauguration
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov 19 President
Wilson s seco;.d inauguration probably
vll be comiiarativelv s mule He is
known to desire that there should be
as little ceremony as possible.
It is accepted as certain bv offi
cials that there will be no Inaugural
ball.
In addition to the president's oppo-
AUV'
ations must prevail over political. The
evacuation of Monastir will, in a wav
shift the operative difficulties from
the Rulsar-Gorman army to Genera;
Sarriil's shoulders.
The retirement of the Germans and
j Bulbars would have the effect of
nrtnging me attacking forces away
frtra their lino of communication and
into the almost roadless region of
southwestern Macedonia, and the de
fending forces correspondingly nearer
their bare of communications. .Mem
bers of the general staff Insist that
the loss of Monastir can be regarded
as only of local importance and with
out effect on the ge.ieral strategitic
sit .latum.
French Rejoice.
PARIS. Nov. News of the occu
pation by Krer.oh troops of the Serb
ian town of Monastir wai received in
Paris as one of the most important
of the late developments in the war
It ca ne too late for general co.nmcnt
in the French pres-.
The Temps point- oct tha' the ruc
cess i likely to have a great influence
on subsequent developments in the
Ralkr.n campaign as the place commands-
all the practical routes between
the region says the admiralty.
The fall of Monastir. the newspaper
fays, involves the erly fall of Ochri
da twenty-fi' e miles no-thwest and
th" 'eytin of the Macedonian lakes
and assures an effective Junction of
the army at Saloniki and the Italian
troops pernting in Albania.
Mer.astlr to be Capitol.
SALONIKI. (via Athens to London).
Nov. 19. The temtmrar. capitol of
Serbia will immediately be established
at Monastir. 'onsiderable forces of
Serbs are with tee entente a'lied
troops v hd have occupied that town.
forced the narrow mountain passee
leading to the Wa-liachian plain of
Rumania anil hav e rem tied the Orso-vo-t'iaiov
:; railroad. Bucharest rcHrts
i Rumrniaii advance in the region of
lPagovlav ile.
From No . ember 1 to IS, the Austro
(Jermans are pair! to have made pris
itit.i of 1J9 officers and 19,338 men
and to l ave captured "i gene, 72 ma
chine guns and 17 ammunition cars.
Lively infantry and artillery actions
are taking pl .ee in the Doirtidja r.ec
ticn near S'llstria.
Tii? British ha'e taken twenty ad
ditional German officers anil hi men
prsoners In the Ancre set tor in I 'rarce.
mnkicir their total of prlsotfers since
the ihlleenth of .November. 6.962
Iteriiir Tli w that In Statiirda vs fiirht-
ing. wliTlj"tv:.s over a front of seven
and a hftlf miles, the Urit'sh met with
a saneuirturv reverse exceiit for In
significant gains southwest of St rre
and near Grandenurt. A I'rench attack
sooth of Sailly-Saillisel met with a
similar repulse.
tttci:s '. y the Austrian in the
Adige valley and upper Ftut regions,
he kalians '.vcre victorious, according
to the Home war office.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Nov. HiThe military
xtieris in the mornlni; newspapers
'oJay call attention to the serousms4
i"f th citualion in Rumania, wher?
,m? Germans and Atistrlans report
try ha-e reach-d the rallwav which
runs Irani the Danube to Craiova, at
a point which threatens to flank '.he
Rumanian army south of Vulcan Pass
The Daily Mall ravs:
"The enemy claims to have attained
his first ' objective, namely, an ad
vance to the P.um.-ni.'in plain. His
nw position endangers the ntimaulan
nanK ano may cause a rapid ritire-
m'n'- 1 hm new3 is grave, as the
ll'rencnce of the enemy on the rallwiv
would compel the retreat of a la: fee
part of the Rumanian line."
The Daily Chronicle says:
"The Germuns' success. If true, is
very sericus. It means taut the Ger
man attempt to cut off the south .vest
on the projection of IPimani.i b.n
gone far toward accomplishment. The
no'dtion of the rjumanian army at
i(ir-nva is precarious, and it will be
litskv if it extrirats Itself without
a catastrophe. The new advance does
not directb- threaten Pii"harest, but
elves the Germans nn excellent bass
from which to do so."
SCHOOL EXPERIMENTS STARTED
Pepunjican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. .Nov. ly.-The nation
al "ocial unit organisation, created to
attempt the experiment of centraliz
ing social activities, has selected Cin
cinnati for n national laboratory ex
periment in community work, acconl-
ing to anannounccmcnt here tonight
by Gil fold linchot, its iesident. The
object of the orgatiizat ion is the de
velopment of a model proi?ram for
community organization.
Mr. Pinerot suid work, would be
begun in Cincinnati about December
1. Fifteen communities, in iuding
Denver, had ssked to be considered
ns the fieid for the experiment.
si'ion to elubornte ceremony at his
Inauguration In tu:i. officials point to
the recent death of his sister, Mrs.
Annie E. Howe: the fact that March
4 falls on Sunday next year, and the
prosi-eHs thai the K"aropean war will
still be in progress next March are
reasons why the next inauguration
'xercises will be as simple as possible.
LONDON ADMITS
nimitinn rrmn
nUHIAutUVID
TO BE DOOMED
John Bull Likes
Having His Food
Supply Regulated
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. Nov. IS. No other gov
ernment action in (Jreat Britain during
the war has commanded such immedi
ate and almost unanimous support as
has the decision to control food sup
plies and prices. V irtually the -entire
press welcomes the scheme. Almost
the only criticism expressed is that the
authorities should have taken charge of
7 .. . f . . i.i
thS."aU,.'5'.." f?."d 8"L'P y uso- .
ine unucuuies oi oaouinig sucn a
., .
vast and complicated problem in a
country unused to teruahstic meth-
vast and complicated problem in a!
ods are not under-estimated
Arrangements are tieing made be
tween the board of trade and the board
of agriculture for controlling the price
of stocks. The distribution of the most
important commodities, corn, meat and
potatoes is already partly regulated, as
also is that of sugar.
The most probable appointment to
the position of food controller is con
sidered to be Sir George Saltmarsh,
the government's chief advi.ier on cord
supplies, or liaron Devonport, chair
man of the port authority of London.
One of the troublesome features of
the situation is how to equalize mat
ters between the rich and the poor.
On the theory of "equality of sacrifice
for all," which is a popular war watch
word, the newspapareg are making a
sensation of luxurious menus in fash
ionable restaurants and hotels. The
limitation of restaurant meals to three
courses is to be discussed Wednesday
to devise economy.
To the casual observer there are no
signs of food shortage. The variety-
and quantity of eatables in the shops
and restaurants appear unoimnusneu,
but the big markets tell a different
story. H still is possible to get a good
dinner or lunch in Ixmdon cheaper than
it could be obtained in New York be
fore the war. The poorer housekeepers
who buy in small quantities feel the
pinch, since the general retail prices
average nearly 70 per cent higher.
The government has to deal orvthe
one hand with increased consumption
due partly to the better scale of living
practiced by a large section of the peo
ple getting unusual wages from war'
work. and. on the other hand, with de
creased imports and decreased home
productions.
In the meantime, "the workman's
beer'" remains almost sacred. Notice
has been given by a small group of
members of the house of commons that
they will press for prohibition of the
manufacture of alcoholic beverages, but
this has e:;clted no popular response.
Pepubbcan A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Nov. 19. A Keirter dis
patch from headquarters in Mace
donia under date of November IT,
describes the fighting- in the dire -'ion
of Monattir as proceeding in bit
ter cold rain, sleet, mud and slusn.
The Serbs, supported by Fiench
gens and ; contingent of French in
fantry, for ten days maintained an
unceasing oflensive, says the dispatch,
and although the enemy forces were
eontirually reinforced, they were driv
en from position after position.
"The Serbian-r rench successes on
the left bank of t'i Gerna river." con
tinues the dispatch, "gave the allies
s'u.h an advantageom position that
The enemy was obliged to abandon th,
Kendall line, although it proved al
most invulnerable to frontal attack.
The p.nlgar-Germans" trenches were
deep and narrow and were provided
with shelters nearly thirty feet, nn
der ground, affording comnleU secur
ity for the shellbursts. Only very
nrger.t reasons could rave aued
th"ir abardonment. and these were
supplied bv the threat to their !in-
of retrtat."
MEXICAN DELEGATES ASSEMBLE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I.AKKDO. Nov. 13. Nearly 2 del
egates and deputies to the Mexican
constitutionalist congress assembled
today at Querelaro. according to ad
vices tonight. The congress will be
"ailed to order tomorrow. Kvery state
in Mexico was said to le represented.
MRS. BOISSEVAIN NO BETTER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LOS A."GKLKS. Cal.. Nov. 19. No
change was noted tonight in the con
dition of Mrs. Inez Milholland Hoisse
vain. suffrage leader of New York who
has been seriously 111 here for the last
month. Her condition was reported to
be "about the same as yesterday," af
ter she had rallied slightly from sink
!ne spells caused by her anemic condi
tion. Rumanians Can
Noi be Blamed for.
Their Failures
Renublican A. P. Leased Wire
rtKP.UN, Nov. IS, (via London. Nov.
1.) P-umanla's failure to withstand
the Am:tro-Germ,in offensive in Tran
? ivnnla is to be ascribed, according
to Joseph Wlrth. col respondent of the
l.oUal Anzeiger, principally to the lack
of high trajectory and amocnt in ar
tillrv lid to inferior leadership.
Th .Milnddiarv cause, the corres
pondent says, are the lack of bartied
viro for entanglements, the adherence
to old style Russian trenches that
cave-in on t!:e arrival of the first
"hell, nnd the lack of equipment for
many pf the troops as well as tele
phone material, and aviators. The cor
respondent continues' "The Ruman
ians have not even -adopted the al
moKt universal trunsjiortatlve kitchen
wagons but still carry food to the
troop, at the front, in cans loaded on
hindering wnpons.
t 'The Rumanians fight far bettei
when defending their own territory
than when on offensive. They looked
for a short, deels've campaign and
wct unprepared for a long fignt.
"Rumanian officers all carry and
study r.'Mgiously, a general staff book
on lessons learned from the war but
they seem to he unable to apply them
pructicall.v .
SERBS FIGHT IH
BITTER WEATHER
VILLA'S BLOODY CAREER GOES
OHBAIED JORE IEI1S
AND CHINESE BRUTALLY KILLED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .Villa bandits. The gypsies were be
KL PASO, Nov. 19. An unidentified lieved to be of Syrian origin.
American was killed when a Villa band
i. , , . . . ,
!took Jlmine and f0,lr Americans were
!seen unnr (..rd of l)14nuit. .,, l-nr-
,-............... u ...... ..v., u. ,,. -
. , . .
"TT,". T
... ......... ., .
town, according to reports believed bv
r..H.,i .,...., , i. ....v. i .
u. ici airing ... ..n auniriiUL, OlUtllll
to the border by refugees.
Refugees further state "that the di8-
trict between Parral and Jiminez has!
been cleared by Villa's followers
of
more than two hundred Chinese.
The American killed at Jiminez was
deseriheH . r.iioiifiift . r. i,i
known I,. i.u fr..m T,.0.n kiJ
to Chihuahua. He was murdered, said
Jill lllll roll Mil HIE, W l.V
the refugees in the Jiminez hotel and
his body lay for some time in front of
the building, when after being robbed
of elothinir and valns! b it mu l.'n.oil
on a bonfire.
The same refugees, who claim to
have been witnesses of the outragess
also say that two Mexican w men who
had married Chinese, and their five
half-caste children were bound and
thrown alive into the fire and cre
mated In sight of the crowd. The bod
ies of seven murdered Chinese, accord
ing to the same authority, wc:e seen in
the streets of the town.
Two Mexicans who escaped from
Parral. nartlv bv horse and oartlvi2ii with f7 bars of silver. Koth Kock
afoot, affirm that they saw four Amer'-jand
icans there under a Villa g:ia'd. Thev
said these men hi d lived in ti e town.
adding that they heard the Americans
working at the Alvarado mines-got
away. Another report brought to the
border was to the effect that the bod-j
ies of .15 gypsies of varied ages and
both sexes were seen on the roadside i
near Parral. murdered and robbed by1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
lilNGHAMPTON. N. Y.. Nov. 19.
Attempting a non-stop flight from
Chicago to New York, Misstuth Law,
in it (.'in lias biplane of therscoot" typ
"hntfTrfd a long distance record for
a single fligbt today when she flew
flom ( hicago to Hornell. N. .. a dlS-
stan"e bv railroad of about 660 miles.
etterinii bv about 1u0 miles the rec-
ord mail- by Victor Carlstrom on No-
vember Z.
A delayed stait, and a cross wind
that cut down her speed and forced
her to desi-end to replenli-h the gaso
Hae supply were reFiionsible for her
failure to reach New York city. Miss
I.avy ald after her arrival at Ring
hamton this afternoon at 4:20 o'clock
Previously Miss Ijiw had never
mane
miles.
single flight longer than l!o
Her machine, a small biplane.
has a jpread of wings less than half
that of the one Carlstrom used.
Miss Law covered a distance of
tbout 73 miles irf six hours and fifty
iiii.iiu.-.. .one neing oeuueren ior tne
descent at Hornell. The first 66J miles,
the distance by rail between Chicago
slid Hornell. was made without a stop
Miss l aw had expected to start be
fore that l.onr but was delaved bv
FLIGHT RECORDS
ARE BROKEN Sf
MISS ROTH LAW
,,,. u , " resulted in filling trades, hitherto sup
V'tJ": J''S Plied by men workers only, "with enor-
exiierfments
an hour and
lost the aciatrlx' might have covered
.. ...
the remaining distance to New York.
At the outset of her fliphL a strong
wind blew towaid '.he easL Aided by
this, hc mace nn average speed of
10'. miles an ho:ir at an altitude of
about fi.ono feet. During the last 200 1 well, permanently and everywhere. I American defense societv. Although tlie
miles, before the stop at Hornell, aj Indorsement is given to the move- , totai enrollment at five camps con -'iap
cross-wind blew with the result-ment to obtain from all governments j ducted jn 1913 jn various parts of the
ih-t the ca'-oMne tank was soon emp- 1 at the time of the signing of the treaty Vnited States was only 3.439 this year,
ty. she glided two miles into Hornell of peace, the establishment of . inter- !tle total enrollment was 19,-97.
it 2 t'7 p m. national agreements embodying the o
After replf r.ishirg- her supply of following principle: j TD HELP THE BRITISH
2u:oMne Miss Law flew the remaining The wage paid for definite work
117 rrilcs to Pinshamton without mis- mst be absolutely independent of the j Republican A. P. Leased Wire
hap He:e darkness overtook her and j s(,x 0f the individual perfoming it. BOSTON Nov. 19. Another addition
she was forced to descend. She In-1 ,. ,., ,L u...., wnitut imii inebidinir
ir-r'i 10 oil III! n- 10 .- 1 01 IV 1011101
row morning, making the start at 'I
o'clock.
Miss Law's experience has been
gained whollv in short exhibition
fllphts. Her flight today was held un.
der the aurpkes of the Aero Club o
America.
She Deserves Credit
NEW YORK, Nov, 19. Plying from
Chicago to Hornell, N. Y.. a distance of
590 miles on an air line. Miss Ruth Law
established today a new American rec
ord for a non-stop cross-country air
plane Journey, the Aero Club of Amer
ica announced here tonight. The young j
woman eclipsed by more than luu miles
the record made by Victor Carlstrom
when he flew from Chicago to Erie,
Pa., an air line distanceOf 4fi2 miles.
"Miss Law deserves great credit for
this flight," said a statement issued by
Allan R. Howley, president of Aero
Club. "She has made an extraordi
nary record."
o
STEAMER RESCUED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 The Amer
i an Steamer Anvil, In distress off San
lose del Cauu Lower California, with
aassengers and cargo aboard, has been
'owed to La Paz by the navy collier
Saturn. A wireless dispatch to the na-
" department tonight said the Anvtl
wax found with her enirlnes disabled
and hull leaking. Six Mexican passen-
?ers were landed at San Jose del Cabo.
Bryan Still Using Both His
Feet In the Political Game
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
INDIANAPOLIS. 5.'ov. 19. Wm.
Jennings Bryan, in addressing the na
tional W. C T. I', convention her.
today, said he was not dead politi
cally, but asserted he is "in politics
with both feet." He said he was In
favor of national prohibition
The convention sermon was dell .-
ered in the afternoon by Mrs. Stella
I vA1 ,7'e'Y7rs lnal v"'a naH f:a"s!u
.except the Japanese and Germans, have
ljeen put to death, the reports agree.
and even the Germans are sxiri tn huve
lafrP,i .,, iuu, , ii,. ,.r
ic,i,iviiiiicTr - ii
.,,f.r.,i ... i....,
Tn-iore " H.emu
I , I
imarrlea
lemuller of Parral, who
Mexican woman. Various
reports of Hoemuller's death have been
i r'' ?Jui"
The Chinese are called the heaviest
sufferers. The fact that none are to
I be seen in the district in which they
i formerly did a large mercantile bus-
""" is laR"'n " lne reiugees as proor
!that a"' numbering over 200 met the
- , . ... . . ..,! ,. . . .... ,
' J , ' v.u.iese caugiu ai r-airai
i "u
I
Parral Americans Sate
! CHlHFAHFi r'lTV Vol- 19 4e.
i cording to a report received here, the!'ar.y J-n'hP nd Secretary Baker
Americans in the Parral district left
' that place on the advice of General
Luis Herrera two days before the evac
uation of the town by the Carranza
garrison. The Americans are said to
have left for the mountains.
From a source believed to tie re
liab'e. it is learned that Kdgar Kock,
a German subject whese fate, has
caused anxiety to his friends, arrived
in Santa Rosalia from Parral October
his silver fell into the hands of
the landit leader Julio Acosta when
' the town was seized the following day.
i Kock, however, was set free after be-
I ing robbed of his treasure, the report
i says. At the end of four days, he is
said to have left for Jiminez in the
I company of two Mexicans. Nothing
further has been heard here regarding
him.
Eight Hour Day
To Be Approved
By Convention
Republican A.' P. Leased Wire
IiALTIMORF.. Nov. 19. The Amer
ican Federation of Labor, entering to
morrow the second week of its conven
tion will begin consideration of matters
embodied in recommendations of the
executive council and resolutions by
delegates.
Interest attached to the visit of the,
heads of the four railroad brotherhoods
who are expected to address the con
vention tomorrow or Tuesday on the
I eight-hour law. The convention has
,., a recommendation of the fed-
adopted a recommendation of the fed
eration executive council to oppose any
I !'".'lsiti..n providing for compulsory
investigation carrying with it compul
sory service. Three resolutions jn favor
of a universal eight-hour day are un
der consideration in committee and it
is expected that one of them will be
favorably reported.
It is understood a favorable report
will be made by the resolutions com
mittee tomorrow on a resolution in
structing the federation executive coun
' cil to take such steps as may be neces-
sary to obtain from the I'nited States
'authority "to the end that the printing
industry mav be rescued from the
dutches of the conspiracies which are
successfu v manipulated."
A resolution has been brought to the
convention from the Illinois State Fed
eration of Labor which sets forth that
conditions in all warring countries have
! mous numbers of underpaid women,
I nnorf.a ii I veil nnn voteless.
I unorganized and voteless.
It is foreseen that when the men re
turn to civil life there will be grave
danger that these exploited women will
! he used to lower the wages of men. as
McADOO TO CALIFORNIA Isix surgeons, one dentist, and twenty
Republican A. P. Leased Wire I nurses, left here today for New York.
ALirU'Ql'ERQl'K. N. M., Nov. 19. j and will kail tomorrow on the liner
The federal farm loan board arrived lAndania for Liverpool. This group will
here tonight and will hold a hearing take the place of doctors and nurses
tomorrow. Secretary William G. Mr-! now at the British base hospital in
Adoo was not with the board, having 1 France, whose service expires Ie
gone to Oilifornia to take a rest. 'cember 9.
CRICACO P.EROESTAKE LAST
SUAR
E MEAL. START
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Nov. 19 Twelve heroic
individuals, six men and six women
employes of the' city heaRh depart -ment.
ule their Thanksttiviiiir oinners
today and then gave their lok-nin'
words to eat nothing for two weeks
j but the scientific diet provided by
public economy commission. They
will attempt to domonstrale the theor
ies of the commission that the high
cost of living is due in a great de
cree to tne apparent willingness of
1 the public to ray any price demanded
for its luxuries and that the public's
health r.s well as Its purse would be
B. Tr ine of Riverside, Cal., w ho
asertel the liquor traffic is doomed.
European rulers and statesmen, she
said, enacted prohibition to promote
efficiency in war and taht American
corporation heads have barred drink
ing men from their employ. She also
, poimeo tun tnar tne lamity patent
' nvflu ine ciiest had disappeared.
FINISH Of THE
'JOINT SESSIONS
APPEARS CLOSE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, .Nov. 1!. With
President Wilson's complete' approval
of his course. Secretary Lane will
return to Atlantic City tomorrow, de
termined to bring the sessions of tbo
America'n-Mexican joint commission
to an early conclusion. It was clear
ly indicated in official circles tha.
the joint conference is about to end,
agreement or no agreement.
If the commissioners fail to formu
late a plan, it is thought that the
prospect of settling border dispute
through diplomacy will be remote. Of
ficials make no prediction as to what
steps the Washington government
might take in that event to insur
the safely of border .towns and
ranches.
Secretary Lane is understood to
nave found President Wilson, Secre-
run accord with him, on every point
when he laid before them last night
a review of the efforts the American
commissioners had made to reach a
settlement.
It is an open secret that Luis Ca
brera, president of the Mexican com
mission, has proved the stumbling
block in the way of reaching an
agreement. Commissioners Bonillas
and Pani, it is said, have been ready
to approve several different sugges
tions for co-operative action. Cabrera,
however, held out for control of any
joint operation by a Mexican military
commander.
It is believed the American com
missioners will renew tomorrow their
original suggestion; That each gov
ernment patrol its own side of the
line independently, but with the un
derstanding that American troops will
pursue into Mexico on a hot trail an
bandits who attack border towns.
Coupled with that suggestion, pre
sumably,, was the statement that Gen
eral Pershing's forces woald be with
drawn gradually from Mexico, and
that no large force would be sent
across the line again unless the de
facto e"overnment permitted raiders to
assemble in such force in Mexico
that a strong expedition was neces
sary to prevent 1 serious attack.
Army officials believe that the
American expeditionary force soon
will be moving toward the border, re
gardless of the turn events may t';k.-'
at Atlantic City. In its present po
sition, many officials hold the exne-
dition is of no stratcgetic value, wh.'
I the. long line of communication with
the advance base is a constant sourr
of danger.
It was understood here that ttv
troops wotid not lie oulered horr.i
while negotiations were pending.
Official advices today indicated that
all of the Americans at Parral had
made their escape and will soon ar
rive in Nogales, Ariz. There has b.e i
much anxiety here because of per
sistent reports tliet Villa bandits had
put marv foreigners to death when
they raided the town recently. Tln
Americans, six or seven in number,
are believed to have made their way
across the mountains to Cnliacan.
Sinaloa. and started toward Xogiles
ovr the line of the Southern Pa
cific of Mexico.
The advices indicate that the Villa
forces are rot in actual possession of
Parral, Jiminez or any of ihe other
towns in that reqion.
Th" fate f the Chinese and other
foreigners besides Americans in th.
vicinity where the bandits are a'tive
is not definitely known, but it is
believed several Chinese may have
been killed.
ALL FOR PREPAREDNESS
ftepuhPcan A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Nov. 19. Increase of
nearly six hundred per cent in a single
'ear in attendance at military training
camps in this country was shown by a
,..,pmpn, :s(i,,pn here tonight bv the
improved by an intelligent diet.
John Dill Robertson, health comms
sioiner. says he expects to feed the
12 for $.'0 a week, or at a trifiv
more than eight cents a meal.
The squad will weigh in at S:;i.l
o'clock tomorrow morning. Their
weight will be carefully watched each
day of the two weeks. They will
be given three carefully prepared
meals each day and will be expected
to do their regular work and will be
permitted to drink only water between
meals.
A big commission merchant, who
admitted he had prcfited by high
prices, today attributed the increase
to the supine public. "In former years,
if a housewife was asked to pay 4u
cents a pound for butter." he said,
"she revolted and used a cheaper sub
stitute. I'his year she pays SO cert-.
"Therein lies the secret of present
high urkes. There are liberal stocks
of butter and eggs in cold storag".
and the holders have made nio:
money than they ever exected to
make." Still there is no wav to mak"
them sell a product for SO cents if
they can get !i0 cents for it and as
long ns buyers will pay the advanc
ing prices, the price is going up.
"It has gotten to be a joke. A
seller will offer a lot of butter or
eggs nt a certain price, feeling that
no one will be foolish enough to pav
that high, and the first thing h
Unnv.s, bis offerings art; accepted."
V
