Oregon Historical Social
Coiup ao7 Second St
TIDINGS
Ashland. Oregon. Uthla Springs
. "Oregon's famous Spa'
"Ashland Grows While Llthla flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
ASHLAND. OREGON MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1916
NUMBER 52
VOL. XLI
Old Man Hard Luck
Loses First Game
"Tough luck" and "Wait until
Thanksgiving" is all the wearers of
th. "Yn.i Know 1! Mcdford" but-
tons will say. Without looking lor J November 12. Its purpose was that
an alibi, It must be admitted that! the gold watch which Mrs. A. M.
old man Hard Lulek Just naturally ; Miner had presented to the McMlnn
stepped in and tossed Ashland's ! ville endowment fund, and which had
chances of winning or breaking even! been the means of raising $500 to
lnto the discard. Medford scored ward that fund at the Baptist state
once on a blocked kick, usual- convention at Salem, might be pub
ly classed as a fluke play, but forjlicly returned to Mrs. Miner, who is
which they must be given credit in 1 a member of the Ashland church,
view of the fact that on every Ash- j The Medford Baptist church, who
in,i n,,nt the Medford forwards , had representatives at the conven-
poured through the Ashland line and tion, were given the privilege of re
on at least one other occasion turning it to the donor, and .quite a
Mocked Lowe's kick, But when j number of their members were pres
Ashland battered the ball a full ent.
ninntv vnrrta down the field by end! After the singing of a couple of
r.,nS nnrt line bucks and Lowe car-'
ried the ball over the goal line only and scripture reading and prayer by
to fumble wh"n tackled behind the Rev. H. J Vine, acting pastor of the
line-tough luck, that's all. The re- local church, H. S. Stine of Medford
turn game will be playcd.at Medford gave a very comprehensive report of
Thanksgiving day. jthe campaign which resulted in
It was a great game at that. Med-'. $330,000 being added to the endow
ford sent up a band and a loyal ment of McMinnville. Miss Vivian
bunch of rooters who gave back ch-fcr Stewart, also of Medford, gave a very
for cheer to the avalanche of sound interesting account of McMinnville
poured out from the Ashland side. ' evening at the state convention, and
With true courtesy the visitors were ; her mother, Mrs. K. J. Stewart, told
given one side of the field and the of some incidents showing the excel
rooters' bleacher.' N ' lent spirit of the student body, as re-
The eame was clean and penalties ' lated to her by one of the students.
few. Medford was penalized once for. Rev. F. W. Carstens, pastor of the
offside, five yards. Ashland was as- Medford church, then told in a most
sessed three fifteen-yard penalties, pleasing manner of the attitude of
forty five yards. The locals exhibit- the state convention toward the earn
ed a slight tendertcy to hold in the paign for endowment, and after Mrs.
first half, Harrcll neutralizing the Miner had been called to the plat
longest gain of the day, a sweeping form and introduced by H. O. Butter
end run, Lowe carrying the ball, field with a few appropriate remarks,
when he found it necessary to grab told the story of the giving of the
a Medfordite in order to give Lowe watch, and how it had so impressed
the right of way, ' the people at the convention that
Play for play, the Ashland team they had enthusiastically raised $500
showed just as much if not more to redeem it and return It to Its orig
than the visitors, whose only inal owner. He then presented it to
chances to score came as results of her on behalf of the people of the
blocked kicks. Ashland made just convention.
twice the yardage of the Medford ! At times choking with emotion,
team and had an airtight defense Mrs. Miner told in a very touching
when things looked dangerous. In manner how she had long ago given
forward passing Coach Klum's team the watch to her Lord, who had done
bad the edge, netting perhaps five so much for her, and how delivering
passes successfully, all for good 1 it to the representative of the col
galns. Ashland got away with but lege was only the Incident that set it
one attempt. The local's one really in motion to do the Master's will. In
weak point was tho hole In the line 1 a fine spirit of unselfish devotion to
which let the Medford men through ( the cause she stated that she did not
on Lowe's kicks. Medford, on the feel that she should accept It for her
other hand, while blocking well In personal use, but that In some way
the line, perpetrated several necktie it should continue to be of use in His
tackles with the usual result of los- service, so she wished to return it to
Ing their man. The teams must have those who had presented it to her,
averaged about the same weight, and she Indicated that it was her
Medford having a slight advantage wish that the proceeds received from
In the line. it be used to assist deserving stu-
Ashland started the gamo by re-
celvlng and soon punted, the Med- cationai advantages or Mciuinnvuie
ford safety fumbling and wearer of College. Brother Mellinger, pastor
the red and white falling on the ball, of the Christian church, was called
What locked like a chance to score upon for prayer, and seeking blessing
was lost by a fumble. Both teams ' uPm the churches represented and
, fumbled several times, a habit which : upon the one who had given such a
heretofore neither had displayed. ; noble example of Christian giving.
At the end of the first quarter Ash- Following this, a member of the
land had the ball on the Medford local church arose and stated that
fifteen-yard line. An attempted the meeting had undoubtedly been
place kick went wide, and Medford , the means of much help and inspira
punted out of danger. Medford's ! tion to those present, and that it
score was made in the last minute ! would be fine for the church to have
of play In the second quarter, Corum j some part In the good work. He
blocking f kick from Lowe and Fields moved that the Ashland church
catching the bell for a touchdown, j pledge Itself to see that the watch
Brandon was successful In kicking, bring at least $100, and the motion
goal.
The shot announcing the end of
the quarter came Just as the .play',
started, which gave Medford a score, j
... i
Five seconds earlier would uavenown nerwu ,UK.u..,-
saved Ashland.
The locals came back In the second
half with an apparent determination
to score and. receiving the kick,
marched straight down, the field, the
march ending in a disaster as record
ed above.
The last quarter was nip and tuck,
but the Ashland punch was gone and ! land, both of whom have set fine ex
no score was threatened. The final j amples of Christian giving in their
ifcore gave Medford 7, Ashland 0. i contributions to McMinnville, and the
Both rooters' sections paraded the meeting was then dismissed,
field during the intermission, the On all sides was heard acknowl
Ashland contingent being headed by , edgment of its uplifting and insplr
a huge red and white ax. Ing effects, and it is thought by many
No Individual stars stood out for that its influence will be felt in both
either team. Lowe and Cunningham the Ashland and Medford churches
were towers on the defense for Ash-
land, their terrific tackling being re
sponsible for several big Medford
losses. Harrell ran balck punts from
ten to thirty yards, neutralizing the
slightly superior kicking of the vis
itors. AH of the Ashland backs
seemed able to reel off their quota
of yards when needed.
McClung of O. A. C. refereed and
gave satisfaction.
The line-up Ashland: Long, c,;
TintAr and Bolres, guards; Jones and
.nniriof nrnwer. Buck and
."I' I,.. Lnm,h.m HaPMii:
WUn. axVLowe. backfleldirceutry and Calhoun, backfle.d.
Gift of Watch Has
Great Influence
A novel and most Interesting and
inspiring meeting was that at the
Bapusl cnurcn ouuuay
afternoon,
rousing songs by the congregation
dents to avail themselves of the edu-
was enthusiastically carried. Mrs. C.
! T. Payne then made a few remarks
on behaif of I.Irs. Miner expressive
of her appreciation of the courtesies
. 1 ii j! tkn 44Aann4 w n 1 4rto4-
ed in the matter by all concerned,
following which E. L. Rasor gave one
I of his choice solos in a most pleasing
, manner, which was received . with
, most interested attention.
Mention was also made of the self-
sacrificing gifts of Mrs. Seaman of
Medford and Mrs. Satterfield of Ash-
i for many a day,
In 1904, out of the total road and
bridge expenditures, $20,000,000 of
the $80,000,000 was paid in labor-
that is, worked out on the roads.
Nyssa Nyssa-Arcadia drainage dis
trict contract has been let for $58,
000, .
Medford.. Rollins, c; Wallace, Par
ker, Collins and Normlle, guards;
Mitchell and Jones, tackles; Fields
and Young, ends; Brandon,
Coram,
Vice-Pres. RicCormick of S.P.
Advises Every Ashlander
You have a fine foundation and have made tho right start.
Write letters or cards to every eastern friend. Send them clr
cuMars, photos, and descriptions.
Do not be afraid of a little tax judiciously applied for proper
advertising.
Advertise by circular, letter and word of mouth.
Send every visitor away a booirter for the people as well as the
climate.
Don't hide your light under a bushel
All the springs In the world are no good without advertising.
Show every stranger every spot of interest you can and tell hira
about the rest.
But above all. have unlimited faith in the city , yourself and
TALK YOUR HEADS OFF.
Vice-President McCormick of the
Southern Pacific sees a great future
ahead for Ashland, and in a speech
before an interested audience at the
city hall Thursday night predicted
that Ashland would see a growth
such as that enjoyed by Pasadena,
which he watched grow from a little
village to its present wealth. He Im
pressed the fact that such growth
does not come by sitting and waiting,
but by constantly applied effort, ju
dicious advertising and unlimited
faith. "Show every stranger every
thing you have and TALK YOUR
HEADS OFF" was his advice, and
eventually the growth is bound to
come. "You have here a climate and
scenic environment which has Pasa
dena's faded off the map, and Ash
land is bound to win out," stated the
Southern Pacific head.
He followed Stephen Mather, who
told about the national parks. Mr.
Mather had made some remark about
"Mr. Greer's park," and Mr. McCor
mick opened his talk with the state
ment that he'd be hanged if he was
n't getting to be like Mr. Greer and
believed the park was partly his as
well, "and what's more, I am glad to
say, it Is getting so that every man,
woman or child I meet In Ashland
seems to be regarding the park as
theirs."
The unimprovable natural beauty
of the paik, a beauty which attracted
the notice of many great men before
it was ever touched by man, was
spoken of, Mr. McCormick telling the
story of the Scotchman who. when
asked what he would do to Improve
the park, replied. "Use a Winchester
on the first man that touches it."
"However," Mr. McCormick added
"you have certainly made a much
bigger asset of the park, although
from a purely natural standpoint you
may not and could not have Improved
j tg beauty.
"This park, this city and the fu
ture of this city look bigger to me
every time I visit it, which you will
notice is frequently of late," he said.
"I'll bet there aren't many persons
In Ashland who know the park and
canyon from the entrance to the
Overhanging rock yes, and even to
the summit of Mount Ashland, as I
do. Why, I could draw a map of
that park and not leave out a single
feature of interest." He then turned
to an enthusiastic description of the
surroundings of Ashland and offered
as his advice, "Capitalize it."
Turing to roads in the relation
that they bear to all tourist attrac
tions, he stated that it has been and
is the policy of the Southern Pacific
railroad to give every aid to road
building, for although they had,
through jitneys and private cars, cut
an almost unbelievable sum from the
railroad's earnings, the company be
lieved the roads necessary to the de
velopment of the vast western terri
tory, which is as yet in its beginning
of development. As an Instance of
this he mentioned California, which
has an area equal to eight or ten of
the densely populated eastern states,
but a population 700,000 less than
the city of Chicago alone.
He asked, "How many of you have
been to the summit of Mount Ash
land?" and when two-thirds of the
audience held up their hands, called
Mr. Mather's attention, stating, "You
see, this is the advantage of having
easily accessible attractions with an
approach which Is every step a new
succession of scenic beauty." ' Mount
Ashland is one of this place's big as
sets, according to Mr. McCormick.
"Why, down at Grants Pass probably
not one-twentieth of the people have
seen the Marble Caves just because
of their inaccessibility," he surmised.
"And, people," he urged, "go after
this tourist money. It Is the easiest
money In the world." He outlined
the demand for cottages for the
seasons ahead and the lack of accom
modation which is sure to be felt next
7
summer, and preuicieu mai Asiiiauu
will within the next few years see ,
such an era of the building of beauti- j
ful liomes as did Pasadena, where in ,
just 3C3 days 3GG beautiful real-1 mnf( Up0n a course of action In be
deiicjs were built. "And you have iiaf 0f this school. My only sugges
Pasadena backed off the map." )t0Ili aside from that of promptness,
"Ashland, Medford and Grants is that the committee be large
Pans should form a partnership. If
properly advertised this valley would
become the home of thousands of the
retired people of this country, the
class of people who have money and
who make the most desirable citizens
in auv community." I
Mr. McCormick sat down, but 1-!
fore the crowd could rise a lady in I
the audience queried, "Can't you tell
us what we can do now, each one of
us?
Mr. McCormick answered: "You
have a fine foundation here with
your environment, climate, park and
mineral waters. Your Chautauqua
will do a lot for you. Look what It I
has done in Xew York state. Every
one of you can do your part, ah
the springs in the world would not
amount to anything If not advertised.
Don't be afraid of a little tax for pub
licity. A small tax judiciously ap
plied will do wonders, and what you
have done so far you have done well.
Some day you are bound to have a
big santarlum here which will make
a J-A profit for its owners.' With
me approacning era oi muuivipui
., , . .
ownership which seems to be sweep-
.. .. , ,
ng the country I see no reason why
. , ,.J :
- , , - a i . i
urn; Your fruit rots and you have no
cannery. Get together and build one.
"And now to get right down to
each person," he finished, "send out
circulars in your letters. Write per
sonal cards and letters telling of
vour citv to everv friend vou have in
tho onot rr tha nut Anrl nl.nvo
an, uciieve 111 yuui uuj miu lain juiii
.11 1 -1 ; i ...... .1,.. ..j
city. The greatest good will come if
the early comers to Ashland carry
away a feeling that Ahland is the
, , J, ,j , .
best place in the world, and if you
.,ii. u .u .iii .
talk It enough they cannot help but
believe you. In closing I am going
to take the risk of never being able
to speak here again, by advancing
.... . ... ..... ,.
have so much
here and are so comfortable that it
has made you just a little bit lazy."
Street Car Worse
Than Massacres
Dr. Clarence D. Ussher, a brother
of W. W. Ussher of Ashland and who
has many friends in this city, was
seriously injured by a slight fall In
New. York city last Wednesday. A
New York dispatch Bays:
"Dr. Clarence D. Ussher, a medical
uiiMsiuiiary ui me Aiueriuttii uuaiu u&
Foreign Missions, was seriously in
jured here today when he fell while
attempting to board a street car. His
collarbone and three ribs were broken i Snerw00d be removed. The
and his spine was injured, it was said j 801lers were granted a hearing be
at the hospital to which he was taken. the boar(, of contro)i whlch wa9
During nineteen. years of service in )n segglon t,)e acUon ,)elnf? tnollght
Turkey Dr. Ussher twice was believed advlga))le ,n ordcr t0 prevent a riot,
to be dying of typhus fever, and es- Th(j gucccBSOr for Warden Mlnto has
caped death In three massacres of; namcd
Armenians, and came uphurt through j .
bombardments by the heavy guns of!
Russian and Turkish arm els."
Trades Place for
Home and Cash
It is reported that Mr. Gill has
'sold his ranch place on Walker av
enue to a Mr. .Weston of Central
Point, taking a home in Central
Point and $4,000 In cash In ex
change. The Walker avenue place is
located northeast of tht normal
school.
Portland has an aeroplane factory.
Sheldon Will
Work for Noimal
The following self-explanatory let-
tor has been received by the presi
dent of the Ashland Commercial
Club:
! November 14, 1916.
To the President, Ashland Commer
cial Club, Ashland, Ore.
Dear Sir: It is my desire, as a
nrosnective member of the coming
legislature, to do everything possible
'to advance the interests of Ashland's
! normal school.
The conditions respecting that ef
fort are quite complex and should
receive careful study and discussion.
There should also be some prelimi
nary work done before the conven
ing of the session, if any effort in
itiated is to be successful.
To this end, I respectfully request
tnat you appoint, without delay, a
committee of the citizens of Ashland
t0 tai(e p this question and deter
enough and of such personnel that
tie people of your city may feel it is i
renresentative and that Its determln-
al0I1B wm (airly and ably represent
tle cty's hopes and ambitions in this
regard.
niaouo nri-nnire for a meeting of
tills committee at an early date and
Inform me thereof, and we will get
down to work on the problem. 1
suggest that the other two members
of the legislature from Jackson coun
ty should also be Invited to this
meeting. Sincerely yours,
BENJ. C. SHELDON'.
May Is Colonel of
Oregon Regiment
"Cantatn" May, as he is remero
bered in Ashland, has been elected
colonel of the third Oregon regiment
successor to Colonel McLaugh-
08 a
lm
Colonel May joined tne
nattonal
, when at
Kmiru iwciiij ins J --' " "
a . ....... i,ftv v.nr. SlfffV
- mi. f
Ashland he became a member or
Aal"al,u tw,u
Comnany D, second Oregon. Before
u"'i''J
this he had served n the Nevada na-
tlonal guaw. tie was ciu
tain of his company two years after
his entry and on account of his record
in the Spanish-American war and
Philippine Insurrection he was pro
moted to major. Five years ago he
was advanced to the grade of lieuten-
Bnt-COloncI,
and when the troume
broke out on the Mexican border last
,..j ,i.a
"ummer i.e was in co m.. .
second troop train leaving Camp
, Withycombe. nor,n
Colonel May is assistant superin-
-oioei uj Pm
tendent of the Southern Pacific Corn-
lemlc'" ... , , ,
nonv Tiio election of Colonel may
, Pftny- 1 lle elccuo"
leaves his former post vacant and It
jl hinted that Major L. E. Bowman,
'nf the first battalion, will be ad
01 "" -
vanced. The appointment wm
made as soon as Colonel May has
passed his examinations and received
his commission as colonel.
Troubles Thick
At Oregon Pen
Warden Mlnto of the state peniten
tiary was asked to resign and did so
last week, as the result of an inci
dent when he deemed It necessary to
hose" a couple of prisoners, hosing
! conslst,ng of turnlng a f,re hose on
the shackled incorrlgiblcs. Close on
top of this conies a revolt Saturday
of 300 prisoners in the state institu
tion uhn rlpmnn ded that Assistant
S. 0. Legislators
To Work Together
At the suggestion of members of
the legislature which will convene the
first of January at Salem, the Com
mercial Club of Grants Pass will ex
tend an Invitation to the solons from
Jackson, Josephine and Douglas coun
ties to meet In that city on Monday,
Decomber 4, and dlsteuss matters and
measures that are of Interest to
southern Oregon as a whole.
Linn county clover seed Industry
netted $150,000 this year.
Mather Tells of
National Parks
Before a crowd which filled thai
hall Thursday evening, Stephen D.
Mather, assistant to the secretary of
the interior and superintendent la
chief of the national parks of th3(
United States, urged that Aslilana
give every co-operation to the work;
of providing better accommodations
at Crater Lake and transportation to
the lake. He told how the Portland
men of capital were beginning to see
the advisability of Investment there,
how Mr. Parkhurst had gone about
as far as he was able in building tha
hotel there, and how, although tho
department expects to secure a big
appropriation for Crater Lake, it can
not be spent on hotels, under the
law. Mr. Mather gave a good Idea
of the big increase in touriHt travel,
an Increase whicli was larger every
year by far and which, with the com
pletion of a national highway ateross
the continent, would be several times
what It now is.
He had some very nice things to
fay about Ashland and dwelt upon,
the fact that Ashland was bound to
profit from every tourist who visited
the lake who makes the trip liy auto,
as nearly all will visit this city.
lie told of the educational work
which has been started to Interest
people in tho national parks, and
stated that the big men of the nation
were beginning to realize the race
that the national parks were most
valuable from a hard-headed just
ness standpoint.
Mr. Mather told of tho use he had
made of impressions gained at a visit
to the Ashland auto camp, mu
pioneer rtito camp, two years ago.
lie has told of the Ashland camp at
good roads meetings everywhere and
before the United States senate. Ha
pointed out many camps which had
been established as a result of his
story of the Ashland camp.
He predicted that the national
park travel of the future would be
almost entirely by automobiles, quot
ing figures to prove that the auto
was displacing the-railroad for tour
1st travql. ;
"Crater Lake park is close behind'
Yellowstone and Yoseinite in roads,
although the roads aro yet to bar
hard surfaced in this park," h.e stat-
. , tpld of t,)0 thlnK8 wlicu tna
government was doing in building
roads, trails, power plants, etc., iu
the national parks, and also of the
hundreds of thousands which San
Francisco men are spending privately
in providing accommodations in Yo
semite. He stated that $125,000 . Is to bo
asked for Crater park at the coming
session of congress and that $250,
000 should be spent by private capi
tal In providing accommodations. Ha
urged that as many as possible ba
Interested in the work. "Get men of
means to invest sums from a thou
sand dollars or so up men who can
await returns which are bound to
conio with the constantly Increasing
travel."
The park man told many Interest
ing things regarding the various na
tional parks, things which gave his
hearers a new understanding of the
magnitude of tho business of attract
ing and entertaining tourists.
B. R. Greer Introduced Mr. Math
ers aud told of the many magnificent
accomplishments which Mr. Mathers
had engineered and tit his undevlat
ing devotion to his work.
Mr. Mathers was an interested vis
itor to Lithla park while here and
walked over the entire park.
Road Advisory
Board Member Here
J. H. Alberts, a prominent banker
of Salem and one of the three mem
bers of the state advisory board ap
pointed last year by Governor Withy
combe, is here with his wife for a
few days' stay. They are driukins
llthla water and looking over the sit
uation here and investigating condi
tions. On Thursday he was taken
over the Siskiyou highway to tha
summit and returned with enthusias
tic praise for the fine condition of
the road and the wonderful scenic
beauty of the drive.'
Mr. Alberts states that he believes
the next legislature will find a way
to make an appropriation to match;
the amount allotted from the federal
road fund contingent upon the state's
furnishing an equal amount and that,
road building will receive a good Im
petus therefrom.
Phone news items to the Tidings.
