Joint Congressional Committee dpenslnquiry on'EHZads and Other Common 'Carriers
HARRISBURG iallßS> TELEGRAPH
No. 270 14 PAGES
LXXXV—
APPROVES PLAN
► TO LIGHT CITY
VIA WATER FUND
rtil Harrisburg Interested in
Mayor's Suggestion For Re
ducing Millage
IS BIG MONEY EARNER
Meals Emphasizes Advantage
to Taxpayers; "Let Court
Decide" He Says
Mayor Meals seems to have struck
a popular chord in his suggestion that
the surplus funds of the Water De
partment be utilized in meeting the
cost of city lighting. This would mean
the saving of a mill and a quarter in
taxation and relieve the City Council
of a lot of worry at the present time.
Briefly stated, the water works,
which are owned by the city, earn
about $60,000 over and above all ex
penses every year. These funds have
been invested' in city improvement
bonds so that at the present time the
department is actually out of debt,
. provision having been made for the
redemption of all Water Department
bonds when they fall due.
Plenty of Money
When the Department of Finance
this week shall have purchased the|
$60,000 of monds authorized by the
loan for the motorizing <>f the tire ap
paratus of the city from the Water De
partment surplus there will still re
main as of November 1 an actual cash
balance in the water funds of SBO,-
896.17. The earnings of this depart
ment. have been increasing right
along and notwithstanding the appro
priation of $60,000 from the surplus
for the purchase of the bonds to be
issuer, for the motorizing of tire ap
paratus there will still be the usual
big balance at the end of the year.
As the subject is more generally dis
cussed it is believed that a reasonable
solution of the matter is the use of
the surplus water funds for paying the
cost of all city lighting, amounting to
approximately $70,000 a year.
Spitz's Views
City Solicitor Seitz decided several
years ago that Water Department
funds could not be used for anything
save the reduction of the debt of the
department until all obligations
against the department had been ex
tinguished. At the present time there
is practically no debt anil instead of
increasing the tax rate it is held to be
good business to utilize this fund for
city lighting.
It has been the policy of the city
financiers to invest the excess funds
of the Water Department, in city bonds
paying 4 per cent, and this policy has
. worked out in the practical liquida
% tion of the entire Water Department
debt.
City Commissioner Gorgas, Superin
[ Con tinned on Page 12]
Three Men Burned in
Explosion at Gas Plant
Three men were badly burned by a
back explosion of. one of the boilers
at the Harrisburg Gas company this
morning. The injured are: Robert
McClajn, 326 South River avenue, face
and arms badly burned; B. K. Robin
son, 1158 South Cameron street, burn
ed about body; K. Brownewell, Pen
brook, burned about body.
McClain's condition was too serious
to be moved from the hospital. The
others were taken to their homes.
No More Juicy "Cuds"
in Jaws of City's Police
Drinking, smoking, chewing and
the use of profanity while on duty
are strictly prohibited for city police
men, according to the new ' depart
mental rules and regulations which
will be submitted to-morrow to City
Council for approval.
The rules have been carefulv pre
pared by Mayor E. S. Meals and Chief
of Police Wetzel after a careful sur
vey of similar regulations of other
cities.
Mayor Meals to-morrow will offer
bis ordinance to provide thirty new
officers for 1917 and he may introduce
the ordinance providing for'a mechan
ician to take care of all the motorized
vehicles in the department. This job,
he says, should carry a salary of not
less than $1,200 a year.
THE WEATHER
For IlnrrlNhiirK ninl vicinity: Fair
to-night and TueMilnj i voider
TilFMtlu ).
For HiiKtcrn Pennaylvnnliii Fnir
to-night and Vueaduy, colder
Tuesday.
Forecant for (lie Week Beginning
Sunday, November 111. llllli.
For KiiNtern l'enn.vlvanin mid Xev
Jersey: Cold wciithfr durliift the
first half of (lie week, followed by
mllell warmer tli-- second hull;
fair vintll after Thursday, when
the weather will become unset
tled with probably rain.
11l ver
The main river with Ilri tributaries
will fall sliithtly during the next
twenty-four hours. A stage of
about 8.7 feet Is Indlealeil liy
Tuesday morning.
Genernl Condition*
An area of low pressure Is moving
off the New 10 n Kin nil region, while
mi area nl liigli pressure prevails
over (lie Northwest. A second
ary high oeeuples the southeast
of the Lnlted States.
| Temperatures are above the sea
sonal averuge over the greater
part of the country.
No precipitation was reported from
practically all tile stations, with
the exception of .01 Inch nt
Sheridan and .111 Inch at Wll
liston.
Indications are that fair wenther
will continue In this vicinity to
night and Tuesday, eoliler Tues
day.
Temperature! S a. m., 42.
Sum Itises, <1:57 a. m.s sets, 4:l,*i
p. m.
Moon) New moon, November 2.~,
SIOO a. m.
Klver Stages 3.8 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, .1-1.
lowest temperature, 112.
Mean temperature, ■l.i.
Normal temperature, 111
RAISING THAT $300,000 DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN DEFICIT \
—. j
HOW DARK THE DAYS M GETTING"
PUSHES BICYCLE RAILWAY LABOR
60 MILES ON HIS UNITES IN FIGHT
60TH BIRTHDAY ON ARBITRATION
Frank F. Stevick Takes Hide
on New Wheel Given Him
by His Wife
Hiding a bicycle sixty miles on his
sixtieth birthday—-one mile for each
year—is the feat Frank P. Stevick,
1011 Worth Third street, has under
taken to-day.
"I'm no great pedestrian, like Dr.
Pager, who can walk a mile for every
year of his life, but I can push a
bicycle as far as anybody my age,"
said Mr. Stevick to-day when he called
at the editorial rooms of the Telegraph
for a written message to the Lebanon
News.
"I look for a very pleasant, ride,"
he added, "especially since I am using
the brand new wheel which my wife
gave me as a birthday present. 1 am
taking along my young friend, J. Paul
Walmer, who lias rooms at my house,
and who is quite a bicyclist himself.
[Continued on Page S]
Newspaper Advertising Aid
to Work of Humane Society
Pittsburgh, Nov. 20.—A small ad
vertisement once a week in every daily
newspaper in Pittsburgh has proved
'he best investment ever made by the
Western Pennsylvania Humane Society
in the spreading of its work, accord
ing to the society's annual report, just
issued. A record of telepTione calls
was kept and these showed a tremen
dous increase. The report says:
"This striking increase is attributable
to the fact that in January tho policy
was adopted of carrying in each of the
daily papers in this city a half-inch
advertisement soliciting reports of
cruelty to children, aged persons and
animals. The society never made a
better investment in the direction of
attracting public notice to its utility,
promptness and efficiency."
TWO DEAD IX EXPLOSION
New York, Nov. 20.—An explosion
due apparently to a defective boiler
cost the lives of at least two men—•
the captain and engineer-—-on a tug
boat, tho Rambler, on the Brooklyn
water front to-day. The bodies of
two other men, a fireman and a deck
hand, are believed to be in the hold
of tho vessel, which sank at her pier.
A score of other persons working on
lighters in the vicinity were injured.
DIG FOR 50-YEAR
OLD SNAKE-BITE
Johnny Doyle's Huskies Seek
Bottle o' Whisky on Dead
Man's Chest
I-osh Run. Pa., Nov. 20. —In years
gone by, it hud not been unusual for
some camper, fisherman or huntsman
to return to Harrisburg after a few
| Continued on I'afire 81
Twelve Heroes Start
to Give Solar Plexus
to High Cost of Living
Chicago 111.. Nov. 20.—Twelve heroic
individuals, six men and six women,
employes of the city health depart
ment. ate their Thanksgiving dinner
yesterday and then gav© their solemn
words to eut nothing for two weeks
but the scientlllc diet provided by a
public economy commission. They will
attempt to demonstrate the theories of
ihe commission that the high cost of
living is duo in a great degree to the
apparent willingness of the public to
pay any price demanded for its lux
uries and that the public's health as
well as its purse would be Improved
by an intelligent diet.
John Dill Robertson, health com
missioner, says he expects to feed the
twelve for S2O a week, or at a trifle
more than 8 cents a meal or 25 cents
a day.
The squad weighed in at 8.20 n. m.
this morning. Their weight will bo
carefully watched each day of tho two
weeks. They will bp given three care
fully prepared meals each (lay and will
be expected to do their regular work
and will be permitted to drink only
water between meals.
HARRISBURG.. PA..MONDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 20 1916
300,000 A. F. of L. Members
Join 100,000 Brotherhoodmen
to Uphold Adamson Law
Washington, D. C., Nov. 20.—Amal
gamation of the tour railroad brother
hoods with the labor organizations
representing other lines of railway em
ployment was effected hero yesterday
at a secret meeting. This action, taken
in advance of the meeting of Congress,
when labor matters of -vital interest
are to be considered, means that all
employes of the railroads of the coun
try are now combined for higher wages
and an eight-hour day.
The brotherhoods have fought their
battles without the assistance of the
American Federation of Labor. They
have stood alone for many years, wag
ing their labor fights without outside
influence. In agreeing to combine with
the labor unions associated with the
American Federation of Labor there
was formed what is probably one of
the most powerful labor organizations
the world has seen.
In the railway organizations which
[Continued on Page 7]
RII.ES RATE SHEET RIXDIXG
I-lazleton, Pa., Nov. 20.—1n the first
decision rendered since the new agree
ment between the anthracite coal
miners and operators became effective
last April, Charles P. Neill, of Wash
ington, D. C., umpire of the concilia
tion board, ruled to-day that the rate
sheet as tiled is binding on the em
ployers. that the burden of proof rests
upon which ever side contends against
the rate and that, the evidence must
be convincing. He declared that he
will in all doubtful cases sustain the
rate sheet but pointed out to the men
that the circumstances under which
a rate is paid must be conclusively
proven.
ORDER DISTANT REBUILT
Amsterdam, via London, Nov. 20.
According to the Telegraaf the Ger
mans'have ordered the owners of
houses which were wrecked in
Dinant, Belgium, in August 1914, to
rebuild as rapidly as possible. If they
are unwilling to re-erect their houses
they must remove the wreckage and
make the site into a garden. The
town of Dinant, the Telegraaf says,
lias been ordered to rebuild one belfry
of the church toward which the Ger
mans offer a subsidy of six hundred
pounds from the Belgian budget. The
town has protested against the order.
GOVERNOR BRUMBA UGH ISSUES
THANKSGIVING PROCLAMA TION
FIXING THURSDA Y, NO VEMBER 30
GOVERNOR MARTIN G. BRUMBAUGH to-day proclaimed
Thursday, November 30, as Thanksgiving Day in Pennsylvania.
His proclamation follows;
Not alone because it is a time-honored custom, but particularly
for the reason that a tetate, like an individual, should never forget the
supreme source of authority and the steady guidance of Almighty God,
it is fitting that we should set aside one entire day for thoughtful sur
vey of our progress and our destiny.
Pennsylvania has abundant cause for gratitude to God. Save for
a visitation of suffering and of death to our children, which lias now
happily passed, the people of this great State have been blessed with
good health and with abundant crops. We have not wrought upon our
soil in vain. We have blended our resources and our toil into many
forms of utility and of enrichment of our people. Flood, fire and storm
have been kept from our borders. Accidents in our industries, still
too frequent, have been reduced, and suffering for the first time hu
manely compensated. Our people have passed into a day of rich hu
manitarian treatment. Our government has been steadily devoted to
prosperU serving our people with gifts of health, happiness and
In the bounty vouchsafed us let us not forget our needy citizens
not even the stranger within our gates, them and those beyond
our borders, whose hearts turn our way, receive from us a gciodlv
share of the good given us by our Heavenly Father. A people that is
not generous cannot worthily live in Pennsylvania. We must give
K'adly and generoualy If we are to prosper permanently and patrlotic
ally - no. unremembered child of Pennsylvania sit in sorrow on
our Thanksgiving anniversary, hot us follow the guidance of our
hearts as well as our heads on this day of gratitude and generosity.
Above all else take thought for Pennsylvania, our beloved Com
monwealth. and resolve to hold its welfare high in our purposes and to
do our part in making it, under God and in His name, the cleanest
safest, sweetest place in which to labor, to live, to serve. Ueverentlv
and gladly let us on this day gather in our several places of worship
and publicly express our gratitude that a Protecting Providence has
kept us In peace blessed us with material and spiritual gifts, granted
us unnumbered favors and blessings, and given us abundant reasons
for thankfulness and for offering sincere supplications that we may
continue to be a heaven-helped people.
. That this may be done, and done with a propriety worthy of our
best traditions and our great destinv, 1. Martin Grove Brumbaugh Gov
ernor of this Commonwealth, do st apart and designate
THURSDAY,
as
THANKSGIVING DAY. '
Given under mv hand and the Great Seal of the State, at
the City of Harrlsburg, tills eighteenth dav of Wo
vemtier. In the year of our Ixird one thoiißnnd nine
hußd"d and forty-first d ° f the Commonwealth the
By .be Governor. MARTIN G ' BRUMBAUGH.
CYRUS E. WOODS.
Secretary of the Commonwealth.
CHIEFS TO HOLD
CONFERENCE WTH
WILSON ON LAW
Brotherhood . Head to Discuss
Plans of Co-ordination
With A. F. of L.
Washington, Nov. 20. While it!
was insisted they came only to "pay [
their respects" the heads of the four |
great railway brotherhoods made an I
engagement at the White House to-1
day to confer with President Wilson
late in the afternoon. It was expected j
that the eight-hour day light and
probably the plans for co-ordination |
of the brotherhoods with the Ameri- !
can Fedeiation of Labor would be dis-i
cussed if only briefly.
The leaders will see the President i
at 5:43 and at 6 o'clock the President!
will confer with Representative Adam- (
son, author of the present eight-hour j
law and vice-chairman of the joint
congressional committee which Began
an investigation on the railroad situa
tion to-day.
In the President's address to Con
gress next month he will make recom
mendations for the remainder of the
legislative program which was un
finished when Congress adjourned.
The brotherhood leaders oppose that
part of the President's recommenda
tions which proposed investigation of
railroad controyersities before a
strike or lockout is permitted. The
American Federation of Labor has
also gone on record against the rec
ommendation.
Joint Committee Meets
The first session to-day of the joint
congressional committee investigating
the broad subject of transportation
developed into a preliminary meeting
at which Chairman Newlands made a
general statement of the purposes or
the investigation and practically all
the prospective witnesses maneuvered
to avoid appearing first. Each wanted
the other to take the lead, because,
all said they wanted to avoid having
their plans prejudiced.
The railroads were not ready to go
on and the State Railway Commissions
said they preferred not to bo heard
until the first week in December.
LOAN ASSOCIATION OFFICERS
Waynesboro, Pa., Nov. 20.—Direct
ors of the Waynesboro Building and
Loan Association on Saturday elected
the fiollowing officers: Daniel ltine
hart, president: William H. Gelbach,
vice-president; D. W. Hess, treasurer;
R. E. Ktouffer, secretary; Watson R.
Davison, solicitor.
ALLIES DRIVE
ON VIGOROUSLY
PAST MONASTIR
Helentlessly Pursue Germans
and Bulgarians After Capture
of Macedonia Capitol
The victory of General Sarrails
armies on the western end of the
Macedonian front which resulted yes
terday in the capture of Monastir, is
being vigorously followed up.
' The German-Bulgarian forces which
evacuated the city as the result of the
successful flanking movement by the
French and Serbians, are still in full
retreat. Paris reports to-day and are
being relentlessly pursued. Already
several towns north of Monastir have
been taken by entente troops, pushing,
fContinued on Page 8]
MUSIC CAUSES UPROAR
Home, via Paris, Nov. 20. An at
tempt to introduce some of Wagner's
music into a concert conducted by
Toseanini resulted in an uproar last
night which brought the perform
ance to a premature conclusion. The
orchestra had commenced the funeral
march from Gotterdammerung when
I there were lout! shouts of "it is for
the victims of Padua." A storm of
| imprecations against Wagner and
I Germany came from all parts of the
| great auditorium and the concert had
to be abandoned.
An A';strian aviator bombarded
Padua on November 11 and accord
ing to jiews dispatches, killed 32 per
sons and injured about twice that
number. All the dead were said to
be noncombatants and most of them
women and children.
RECOMMEND <)ID AGE PENSIONS
Indianapolis, Ind., Nov. 20.—A rec
ommendation that old age pensions be
paid to members of the United Mine
Workers of America after they are
65 years old and to disabled miners
under that age will be made bv tho
special committee appointed by John
P. White, president of the organ
ization. to investigate the matter. The
committee now is framing its report
It has been malting its investigations
for the last four months. The report
will be submitted to the next biennial
convention of tho organization in In
dianapolis in January, 1918.
TRAIN HITS AUTO;
2 DEAD, 3 HURT
York County Farmers Arc
Struck on Grade Crossing on
Wrightsville Pike
| lork, Pa.. Nov. 20. Two men
were In.stunt.ly killed and three others
seriously injured when a Pennsylva
nia, railroad express train hound for
Philadelphia, struck an automobile on
I the Stonybrook grade crossing on the
I wrightsville turnpike about live miles
Last of \ ork at 6.45 this morning
| The occupants of the machine were
Vork county farmers bound for Lan
caster to buy cattle.
The dead are Henry Lanius 65
years, and William Leib, 50 years.
The injured, at the York hospital,
[Continued on Page 8]
Germany Is Planning to
Make Lithurria a State;
Army Will Be Raised
Paris, Nov. 20. Germany Is about
to follow up her declaration of Polish
independence with a similar an
nouncement regarding Lithuania, ac
cording to dispatches from Switzer
land to the morning newspapers. The
dispatches say that the new state will
probably receive Prince Eitel Krled
rich, second son of the emperor as Its
sovereign and will form a state of the
German empire with a similar status
to that of Bavaria or Saxony. As in
the case of Poland, the dispatches add,
the first step in the creation of the
new state will be the formation of a
Lithuanian army to light under Field
Marshal Von Hlndenburg. It is esti
mated that Lithuania could raise
150,000 men.
Single Copy, 2 Cents CITY EDITION
STATE CONVEN
OF METHOD® 7 MEN
OPENS HERE TO-DAY
*; t.f.i T
Philadelphia and Pittsburgh Send Large Delegation to
Great Denominational Rally; Speakers of National
Reputation on Three-Day Program
CHURCH PUBLICITY WORK FEATURED
IN EXHIBIT BY DR. CHRISTIAN REISNER
Bishop Berry Presides at Afternoon Session Which Has
"Spiritual Preparedness" as Theme; Educational
Work Secretary Delivers First Address
One of the largest denominational
conferences ever held in Harrisburg
in years opened this afternoon at 3
o'clock in the Chestnut Street Audi
torium when the Pennsylvania Con
vention of Methodist Men began a
three-day session.
During the day hundreds of Meth
odists from all parts of the State
poured into the convention hall to
register for the big church sessions,
and late to-day big delegations ar
rived from Philadelphia and Pitts
burgh.
Members of the executive commit
tee in arranging the convention pro
gram are aiming to make the Harris
burg conference the best one ever held
in the history of the Methodist church
in the United States. Speakers of na
tional reputation representing practi
cally every branch Of Methodist church
work are listed on the program and'
arrived also during the day.
Other Sects Represented
A noticeable feature of the hun
dreds of registrations was that many
of them were men of other denomina
tions, some of whom came to the city
from distant points to hear the big
speakers scheduled to give addresses.
All of the men who will attend the
sessions are expected to be in Harris
burg by nightfall. Hotel accommoda
tions were scarce and a number of the
visitors were guests of prominent
Methodist laymen of the city.
MiTfJTTi P Kl 1 l ~f \ iJT~" A p \X/Tl IWOOF)
Harrisburg. Picking up a loaded shotgun from a
stump while hunting this asternoon, William Raymond
Shaffer, aged 27, of J3O Delaware avenue, was instantly
killed when the gun was discharged and tore off the top
of his head. • Shaffer with John Malone was hunting in the
orchar lof Jair.es Heck near Wildwood Park. They stop
st il is ::> the m . . 1 lasted their guns aqross
a tree iitump. Shaffer picked his up by the barrel when it
discharged. He is married and is the father of two chil
dren. The body is in the nurgue of Hoover & Son, under-
ALLIES*VICTORIOUS IN MACEDONIA
Paris, Nov. 20.—Allied troops have been completely
victorious on the Macedonian front from the river Cerna to
Lake I'resba, according to announcement by the French
war office this afternoon.
GERMANS IN MACEDONIA REINFORCED
Berlin, Nov. 20.—8y Wireless—New German for
mations have reached the Macedonian front, it is an
nounced officially. The new positions north of Monastb
were taken up without pressure from the allies. Serbian
advances in the Moglenica region were repulsed. '
AMERICAN STEAMSHIP AGROUND NEAR DOVER
Berlin, Nov. 20.—Ths American steamship Siberia, ac
cording to wirelsas reports received here, is stranded on the
east Goodwin sands.near Dover and is asking for help. The
officers of the Siberia say it is impossible to launch boats
owing to the heavy seas.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
Harry llobart Wolf qnil Mnrthn Kllaabrtli Sebright, Gail Berlin.
At the big reception hall in the
auditorium big exhibits were placed
to-day, showing the advancement la
Methodist church work In the coun
try. Publishing houses also were well
represented in the smaller hall.
Feature Publicity
Late to-day a big exhibit arrived
from Dr. Christian F. Reisner of New
York City, on church publicity work.
Dr. Reisner is an authority on thla
subject and has been appointed chair
man of the church publicity commit
tee of the Advertising Clubs of the
World. He is pastor of the Grace
Methodist Episcopal Church, New
York City, and has written several
books on the value of church adver
tising and live-wire preaching. Ilia
work during the last few years has
attracted attention throughout the en
tire country. Dr. Reisner will speak
at the session on Wednesday after
noon on "Church Publicity." His ex
hibit at the auditorium is under the
supervision of Dr. C. H. Caswell of
New York.
Both the registration hall and the
main auditorium were decorated In
national colors and with flags, and
during the day the executive com
mittee worked continually to complete
[Continued on Page 8]
