mhm-9-, & Maw .at V- gnvMaiBi M9BPB-ViH IBB"-3.
HOME EDITION
M
r
TODAY'S PRICES
Mexican bank notes, state trills, 10
13 a - s -t Mexi.au gold. 49c.
na .onalest t ,c bar siir H & H-quof-a
ton -'-- ppr $" u 23
trains in.nj ir Iir. toii .t U "torts
ftr-a.
TTI
MEM
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
pAeis
weather FORECASTS.
J rnM ami vnt Texas. Dn.ttld;
colder TneMlay. mt Mexico, elaudy.'
older. XrUons, fair; colder.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. MONDAY EVENING. NOVEMBER 20. 1916.
ELIYEREP WTWHERE c A. MONTH FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
TOGO
mens
andWi
V
Will Confer With Author of
Adamson Law Regarding
Needed Legislation.
UNIONS OPPOSE
PART OF PROGRAM
son Discuss 8-Hour
TIR: FOE FLEE
LawciiTrniT
m ah m m 91 H
. ! Bb II 9 En 1 1
Coone 0 77hJ
Kentucky Infantry
Congressional Committee To
Tae Up Study of Goo-
ernmenl Ownership.
"T-r tASHIXGTOX. D. C, Nov
A TOtfle it was insisted
c
20
they
came only to "pay their re
spects." the heads of the four grct
railway brotherhoods conferred with
(- president Wilson late this afternoor
It was said that the eight hoar day
fight and possibly plans for coopera
tion of the brotherhoods with the
American Federation of Labor were
discussed.
This evening the president will con
fer with representative Adamson. au
thor of the present eight hour law and
vice chairman of the Joint congres
sional committee which began an in
vestigation of the railroad situation
today
Ir the president's address to congress
T.ext month he will make recommenda
tions for the remainder of the legis
lative program which was unfinished
when congress adjourned. I
Union Oppose Tart of Pncnm. !
Tbe brotherhood leaders oppose that ' 1
pari di ine presiaems recommenaa- I
tions which proposes- tmresttgaticm- of 1
railroad controversies before a strike
or a lockout is permitted. Tha Amer
ican Federation of Labor ha also gone
on record against the recommendations.
Plans for a coordination of effort
between the merlean Federation of
Labor and the four great railway
-otberhoods for an eight hour fight,
said to have ben formulated at a con
ference here Saturday are surrounded
witn consiaeraoie secrecy.
An lllsnment of Forces.
The reported plan of the labor lead
ers s Burrounded with manv circum
stan. -s which leads government offi-
cials interested in the congressional
investigation of the eight hour rail
road law to believe it has been formu
lated o meet a reported movement on
the part of employers to band together
to f ght the eight hour day.
Pntil the nlans are follv disclosed
in legislative program or the admin
s "-ation will not be fully shaned bu
it !s admitted that the action of the
labor leaders will have an important
bearing upon it
ion Testify First
The t rst session today of the Joint
congressional committee Investigating
the broaa subject of transportation de-
eloped nto a preliminary meeting at
which chairman Xewlands made a gen
eral sta'pment of tbe purposes of the
lres'igatton and practically all the
prospective witnesses maneuvered to
avoid appearing first Each wanted
the other to take the lead, because.
aI3 said, they wanted to avoid having
their plans prejudiced.
The railroads were not ready to go
on and the state railway commission
ers said they preferred not to be heard
tut I the first week in December
The committee is required to report
1o congress by January g, and an effort
raay he made to put through legislation
be'rr the session ends on March 4,
aftc- which the administration will
"-ot have its present majority in the
house
The resolution for the investigation
came at the conclusion of many months
of effort op the part of railroads and
others interested in questions affect
ing thrm. to have a comprehensive In
quiry in 10 all phases of government
c ar trel
V. Ilson Point Ont rd.
Tr;i4 ,1 Wilson in his address to'
ounpre in December 191&. called at
tention to the need in this language:
"The transportation problem is an
c' jml-v serious and pressing one
Jn it-is country. There has from time
t-, tin-j' of late been reason to fear
rt - ojr railroads would not much
' 11
? IfliMiinaaa
auS ..aflatfMatilHBBBBaBaBBBBK
MISS LAW ENDS
RECORD FLIGHT
Woman Aviator Completes
Aerial Journey From Chi
I cago to New York.
New York. Xov. 20 The recoil
breaking airplane flight of Ruth Law,
begun Sunday in Chicago, terminated at
Governor's Island here at 9-49 a. m. to
day after stops at Hornell and Blng
hamton. X. T. The final 151 miles from
1 BInghamton to this city was covered
this morning In two hours and 10 min-
1 Tites and the entire journey. 832 miles
in an airplane. In the actual flying time
of nine hours and one minute.
Miss Law was greeted on her arrival
at Governor's Island by Maj. Gen. and
Mrs. Leonard Wood, who congratulated
her on her achievement She was con
siderably chilled and was taken to the
r house of one of the officers at the post
to recuperate
Hnd to Fly Low.
She had little to say about her flight
except that she had to fly much lower
than she wanted to on account of the
haze. It was the cause of remark
araonc those who examined her ma
chine here that Its structure was sucn
tin mi IE the
CAPITAL IF
muni
SEN
1
4 I
1
1
GOULD II GET PROTECTION
A
The Bulgar-German Army Is
Pursued Through Villages
North Of Monastir.
frenchfTrst
to enter city
War Material, 620 Enemy
Combatants, Are Captured
By the Allies.
PARIS, France, Xov. 20. The en
tente allies are now In full pos
session of the Servian citv of Mnn.
as to expose her to tne air more man astir, from which the German-Buln-a-n
the case in most modem airplanes. , forces hv- w .n. ,
The pilot's seat is placed on a projec "an IO:es have been expelled, and
tion in front of the machine so that I the enemy is now being pursued north
the aUatrix gets the full force of the , of Monastir. according to. today's un
JIs Law bettered Victor Carlstrom's i "'cIal communication fr'om the war
record, of November 2 by about 100 office. Monastir was occupied Sunday
miles, making the 590 miles in air- morning by French cavalry. It is un
Hne from Chicaco to Hornell. . 1-' ... . .,, , ... .
. .. ... i uci aiiHHi .iinna.Ti ib ... na wax ... ... a
......... .a w MG 1UAUQ ma
temporary Servian capital.
ie oiiiciai statement says: I
" iiKimns wnicn nas been some:
since Xoi ember 1 along the front '
JIBRICANS in the state of Chi
huahua cannot be protected by
Carranza troops if they choose
j to remain there, according to a state
ment made by Gen. Jacinto B. Tre
vlno, commander of the de facto troops
in Xorthern Mexico, to Albert Herold.
an El Pasoan, who for the past ten
days has been a prisoner of the Car
ranza force-i. Herold arrived In El
Paso Saturday nlgnt from Chihuahua.
where he was released Friday by Gen
where she arrHed Sunday without stop
ping. , , ..
ij-ing from Chicago to Hornell, N-Y-
a distance of 590 miles on an air
line. Miss Law established Sunday a
new American record for a non-stop
cross rnuntrv airolane Journey, the
Aero club of America, announced here
! Sundaj night The young woman
I eclipsed by more than 100 miles the
record made by Victor Carlstrom when
pending Investigation of the charge
against me "
Ile!raed on Petltlun.
Herold was released by Gen. Tre
vino. following the presentation of a
petition to the Mexicau commander
signed by many prominent El Pasoans.
Judge Dan M. Jackson, who handled
the petition, had it forwarded to Chi
huahua without loss of time, in an
attempt to obtain the release of Herold.
who is a native El Pasoan. and a son
of George Herold. formerly a member
of the city detective department
At present there are about 400 oris-
in tne unmuanua penitentiary,
Trevlno ifto. hoinc ,!, i i, r i I ers in ine enmuanua penitentiary.
eVaY'Senifnffar'o? MU". hr 1 ! "cording to Herold. the majority of
iTLf..iiv ..mnn ..i a l;-"V I wnom are unaertea, having been ar-
la-nfully selling cattle. He came to'
Juarez under guard, and accompanied
by his brother. Joe Herold. who fol
lowed him to Chihuahua following his
arrest In Juarez.
o Protection Guaranty.
"Trevino told me shortly after I was
released from the Chihuahua prison
that he could not guarantee protection
rested on political charges.
MaRneit For Villa.
"Residents of Chihuahua are hourly
afraid of an attack by Villa." said
Herold. "It is reported that he Is
drawing in on the city, and on the
morning I left Chihuahua. Gen. Trevino
left with all of his troops, taking a
soutnern route. According to state-
ik?i .'n chJhna,nua. and that ments made to rae. Trevino has about
. ....S t.V: Bula "eroio- t 6Mr troops, but over half of them are
ms arrested ulth ten other cowboys! starved, and not In a fit condition to
at the San Martine ranch, and taken fight The greater mass of the peo
S J? z; ??erLj .?. incarcerated , pi are for Villa, and anticipate an
ror one night The following morn- attack on the state capital at any time,
ins .1 was sent to Chihuahua under Conditions are very bad among the
guard, and lodged in the federal peni- lower classes of the city of Chihuahua,
tentlary. It was almost impossible to who find it Impossible to get anything
jret anything to eat. and I had to send to eat Hundreds are leaving the city
ior my meals while I was held dally."
Diplomats of Central Powers
Are Ordered To Leave
Athens by Wednesday.
UNIVERSITY IS
ORDERED CLOSED
out
Disturbances Of Students
Cause for Gree Govern
ment's Demand.
w ""jj me vnent trom tne i
-Iladerrr I'hoincrapiitr, lilt S. EI rsw.
XSt. JOtfiTT nEXlfY, TWrd Ken-
along the front
ftr! An t fm-rr K a
river. Cerna to lake Presba. has come 1
.2 annd Wlth a complete victory fori
the allied troops. The dav of Vorom-
law the final result of the vast Vlllirf,.fl:
AHU1H ABOUT IG0MMSS1EIIS
TO BE LOOTED TO El PAfiLEYil
T OXDOX, Eng, Xov. 20. As a resul,
I of students' disturbances, follow
ber 19
enveloping maneuver of the German
and Bulgarian forces which wera de
fending the region of Monastir.
Drive Enemy From Makova.
"On the evening of Xovember ISJeTPp"
U" "ces continuing tnelr victorious
offensive occupied the village of
Grnnishte. east of the Cerna. The same
night Tarashok In the bend of the
he flew from Chicago to trie, r-a, an
air line distance of -S52 miles.
A delaved start, and a cross wind
that -cut dOrOi.Jir.sneedaad forqed her J
-ro descend to replenish the gasoline .
i . - -.. i ii -
tuck-- inrvtr -m t,... T supply were responsiuie lur nor imium
rooty inrantry, -was Horn Jn , ,"'. v. -vv- .i mi.. Tj.- i.i .
Ansnirt ISO. ana -was reared at , after her arrival at Binghamton Sun-
liopiaiisviiie. Br. He enlisted as a prl- day alternoon at :u ociock. , rlve, -.,. ,.".,:" err, " ""," r?l ""
Tate In company D. Third Infantry, at , "ik'if" ,?,, -w : Servian troops. Following up their
. . .. . u single flight longer than J miles, anccvpss wifii r,. ...iJL .iT Jtr:.
lt organlmtlon. and after years was Her machine, a small biplane, has a The mh?19th iwif. hnr,nlSDt
appointed .erneant and served through . sjread of wings less than half that of brilliant engagement took Dossession
nil the crade. and went ont with the ' tne ,?,e S" stI"in,USe.,J- " WfS "0t of hil1 No. 1J78 and a daybreak of
j regiment In ! to the Sp.nish-Amer. L&ftl2$&mt JuTo'Pakova. "" d'
! tea war as llentenant colonel. He vrns J "83 miles in six hours and 50 minutes. "During the dav of the 19th several
elected colonel May 54. 10O4 (after the ' Hme b,Vned?,Cte.d.r thf de?Se"S.at ' "?" ot Bulgarian trenches located in
j,.i. , -t c-K!. j ' . Hornell. The first 662 miles, the dls- the vicinity of Dobromir were orm-
death of col. smith) and has served , tance by rail between Chicago and nled hv sirriinT.. Jifu .C.?J
a. .. ,. . w . I UA...11 ... .1.1 .. . . 1 .. .w.HiJ. "a UCICI'
'u .uu v-Mfncnj civjr since, lie IS mar I ivi ucu, w ixa iHtXMts wiuiuui A. amy.
rled. and In civil life Is an Insurance j Was Delayed In Starting,
agent at HopkinvtUe. In December. Miss Law left Chicago at S:25 a. nx.
101S. he was detailed as assistant ad- afern "m,e Sne ad expected to start
... . . .- i before that hour but was delayed by
jntant seneral of Kentucky and was experiments with the carburetor for an
:ive program' of the admin- j stationed at Frankfort, the state cap!- ' hour and a half. With the time thus
ill not be fully shaped but tat when the nmidi'. ,n .m- .. I 'ost the axatrix might have covered
tAH tPlflf VtlA int4At n Un " . . Hk vam f m f- Intn .. Hlr
Under Quevedo
Brothers Eeported Threat-
.erungihe City.
The town of Ahumada. about SO
miles sooth of Juarez. Is threatened
with capture and looting hy a large
band of Villlstas who are now operat
ing near there, according to refugees
who arrived late Sunday nrght from
Chihuahua City. There is only a small
garrison of Carranza soldiers at Ahu
mada, according to the passengers, and
when the train passed through as many
residents as could Jo so boarded It and
fled to Juarez for safetv.
mined advance mnvpmpnt mmnaiiaj 1 The rmint .. ,(. ..Mi... t..
thl l?.Tnrn;n,5ilKa.B!--? "a??t tween 300 and 400 men. under the lead-
r "o apchln fif thai nnaia,i)f k.ntli... To I..
"-"' w . sttuu UIUIIIC1& 11 13
Agreement or No Agree
ment, Sessions to be Pushed
ta a Quick Conclusion.
By Associated Prew.
'Washington, D. C Nov 20 Sessions
of the American-Mexican commission
were resumed at Atlantic City, X. J
today with the understanding among
the American commissioners that the
sessions would be pushed to a speedy
adjournment agreement or no agree
ment Luis Cabrera, chairman of the
Mexican commission, is said to be the
sole stumbling block in the way of
arriving at a decision regarding bor
der patrol.
Secretary of the interior Lane, chair
man oi tne American commission, laid
i- is ..-.. ... Z I the remaining distance to Xew York. 1 ?5ic " ,ne morning.
Jnne IS when he Joined the regiment At the outset of her flight a strong 'owed by a column of
wind blew toward the east Aided tiy
this, she made an average speed of
100 miles an hour at an altitude of
about S000 feet.
During the last 200 miles, before
Monastir
rZ?""!: f r2 J? sonrdSlSghtea tnTa'tY.!
rear niani 7r ihl rfc .,."" H iuuuvu irain near ym- luae oi the American commission is
", -- ......,. i.c. cu jiuu
"'" .uvraotr is at nair past eight
at Fort Thomas, the state mobilization
point.
AMERICAN SHIP
CALLS FDD I
Siberia is Stranded Near
Dover; Sea Too Rough to
Launch Boats.
Berlin, Germany, Xov. 20. (Wireless
to The Associated Press) The Amer
ican steamship Siberia, according to
wireless reports recieved here, is
stranded on the East Goodwin sands,
near Dover, and Is asking for help.
The officers of the Siberia say It is
impossible to launch boats, owing to
the heavy seas.
tfc. ..nr. Un.n.ll et.n.n .-,. !. UOrtn
blew with the result that the gasoline e. 5Hs5,ts .J Kal;aman and Orizar
They were fol-
1iVani.nnii,a;.n
infantry.
"During the day our troops workins
out directly north of Monastir. took
possession successivelv of Mil v .i
and the tillage of Kirklina (two miles
uuiiu ui jiunasiiri ana they reached
tank was soon emptied. She glided two
miles into Hornell at 2:07 p. m.
After replenishing her supply of
gasoline, MUs Law flew the remaining
117 miles to Bingharaton without mis
hap. Here darkness overtook her and
she was torced to descend.
Miss Law's experience has been whol
ly In short exhibition flights. Her
flight Sunday waa held under the
auspices of the Aero Club of America.
The vessel undoubtedly is the steam
ship Sibiria of 3247 tons gross.
The SIlHria sailed from Sydney. Xov.
1, bound for Cherbourg with a cargo
cessfi lly as ot present equipped and ?ftn..- "?J- ? e ca,rr J1 a, crw
cood'natcl I suggest that it would " VrT lt. atiZ. . V, i . . s"
be wi-e to provide for a commission ot ' The steamship Siberia, of 11.284 tons
,-.r...LV tn .pt.it. kv h......i i gross, which had onerated for IS v.vr.
vass of the whole qestion whether our H0 aeS tne American flag, was sold by I f c . .
Ln as at present framed and admin- I IPe Pacific Mail Steamship company of . tlS lalOOnhpetiPni
d are as serviceable as they fle" ork early this year to a Japanese S
Sues For Diamond
Lost On a Bluff
Kansas Citj, Mo, Xov. 20. "Bluff
ing" doesn't always pay.
Albert Krause. for instance, ia try
ing to replevin his $75 diamond stud,
which he sold for a quarter.
He was being examined in the Wyan
dotte district court, having filed fcuit
for $3000 againt the Kansas City Rail
ways company as a poor person.
"What's that you're Wearing?" asked
the attorney for the car company,
pointing to a stone in Krause'a scarf.
"Pure glass," answered Krause. "Cost
two bits and I'll sell it at cost If you
want It"
-I'll take It" answered Miller.
aaea to mat, tvrauses suit wat i
thrown out of court the iurisre hnIVIlnir
he had no right to sue as a poor person.
(respectively four miles to h nnnh.
east ana two miles to the north nf
huahua City last week. I said to have the president's hearty ap-
On Sunday night's train from Chi- i DrovaL
huahua City were scores of the more , The agreement 'whicjTrabrera alone
well-to-do residents of Chihuahua City, refused to "Inltaeid to live iro
,hJ?rtWff 'J!1' With autmblIes- videS hat elch gSvfrnment MtrofiU
fisJatfon bv th. vntr, fCar f Cn own a,de of the n. but with thl un
"Tne'asenrs' 'reputed that Gen. SSlS" filfow 'fnto MecTanvo,
Trevino left Chihuahua City Xovember ?i? 0ff0"M,can0 taSSS? H
ana reiurnea .overaoer ia. xnis .!,. k H-Mt- .i.V ! - "C.
column would b withdrawn from
contradicts the statements of de facto
rrnvArnmant nfflrii-ila mh n aeot tdst
Monastir). These towns were at once Trevino has not yet taken the f leld ? iS nSdSn "i ,iat no lar?e
attacked and the pursuit of the enemy against the Villistas. and that the only border ITni"',?. af! "f,'"1 acroES the
Is continuing without mnlit. ci nrmmier has hn a .tirmi.h K.t-. I "oroer unless the de facto government
hundred and twenty prisoners and a
considerable- quantity of war material
remained in our hands."
Monastir Unimportant Says Germany.
tierlln. Germany. Xov. 20. "Mons-
tirs evacuation by the Germans and
.Bulgarians.' says the Overseas Xews
asency, "was a measure which had
been prepared for several days by the
chief commander of the central allies.
xne Servians had crossed th. rlv.r
encounter has been a skirmish between
bandits and a force of Carranclstas
under Gen. Osuna In which several of
the Villistas were taken prisoner.
159 ARE KILLED IN WRECK
ON THE VERACRUZ RAILWAY
B As'HlateI Ires
Laredo, Tex, Xov. 20 Reliable re
ports received here state 159 per
sons were Kinea ana many others in
permitted raiders to assemble in such
force that the sending of a large ex
pedition against them became neces-
ArmV Officials ara nnilamffiAj ... KA
lieve that the American expedition will
soon be moving toward the border, re-
I ., . , I M,u' oi wnetner or not an agree-
uiirui i reacnea.
Cabrera is said to have opposed a
plan for cooperation in border patrol
Cerna and. advnnMnt- ..,, ..j if.. I mi-pi! in n. i-allrn-,rl w-v th int... I i li" ,es operated under
superior forces, had reached the height oceanic line to Veracruz. Mex between I '
north nf r-l..! . ." "ttbut t.- a c? ., , .,
"- -' --";oci """ engagements in ":uc "" - jmbuci. near jaiapa on c 4V trnim nirm...,.
which the tide of battle fluctuated and November 12. The wreck is said to have 2AY FOUR AMERICANS
VT iT "'" "mi. uiio von iiuelow at u"" uue m mo engineer running at too
uifjn a rate oi speea over a dangerous
section of the road, as a result of hlch
the train fell over a cliff
ered
might be in the solution of the prob- J steamship company for service between '
len..'
Six months later the joint resolu
tion was adopted It provided for the
appointment of five senator3 and rep
resentatives "to Investigate tbe sub
ject of the government control and
regulation of interstate and foreign
transportation, the efficiency of the
existing sjstera in protecting the rights
or 'nippers ana carriers ana In pro-
For Lost Husband
San Francisco and the far east This j
Vessel is now on 9 rnrara In lanonAUA !
and Chinese ports j Saannah. III., Xov. 20. Mrs. Louis
j Schreiner has brought suit against
LAWYER IN MOURNING Xlve saloonkeepers for J5000 each.
. .. ..0 ..-j ...uv. ... uuaudiiu t
made
o forced her to get
OVER WILSON VICTORY drunkard and
t hi. r . t aivorce.
.lottiuiE, icuii., iiuv tv inanes n. i
King, a prominent Memnhis attornev CAVC 4M AVr no UlTPUrr
mn nf Th nnhll. Intakraict .& I 1 i.. T w.i , , ... WW Jit m&i u lirillllil
. -i r .. It , " i "" u""i. is paying an election
fo-pora:Ion or control of the incorpora- , v. i,.( , ,T j . .
tion of carriers, and all proposed ' bet by slttlnS n an office decorated
.hang-? In the organization of the in-, Wlth crepe and other paraphernalia
-erst t commerce commission and the JuSgestion of a house of death King
ct to resrulate commerce, also the sub- ' "et a friend Hughes would be elected
ject of government ownership of pub- ' T'le stake was permission by the loser
6 "lie utilin-. such as telegraph, wire- ' 'et nis office be decorated in any
less, cable telephone, express com- way a,r winner might choose King
panies and railroads engaged In m- ' lost- II,S friend decorated his office
terstate and foreign commerce and re- 1 ln mourning
art a? to the wisdom or feasibility
oi. k" tmriii uwnennip ot SUCH
utilities and as to the comparative
worth nd efficiency of government
regulation and control as compared
with government ownership and oper
ation " Power was given the commit
tee to sit during a recess of congress
and to summon witnesses and to call
(Continued on page S, column 6.)
KILLED PROSECUTOR'S WIFE
St Joseph. Mo. Xov. 20 An axe or
liKtchet caused the death of Mrs. Har
riet Moss McDaniel. In the Judgment of
Dr A. B. McGlothlan, according to his
testimony in the criminal court here
today.
The blows which caused her rfpnth
could not half been made by the revol
ver di prosecutor iscar u.
tne nead of the German .inAman
stormed and captured a height
Sacrifices Xot Justifiable.
"The height taken by the Servians
was upon the same level as Monastir
so that the Servians were able to ob
serve the German-Bulgarian positions
and were able to shell them from the
flanks. Simultaneously, strong French
forces advanced upon the positions on
the Monastir plain.
Heavy sacrifices for a position with
out any Importance as regards the gen
eral strategical situation would not
evJLaVio" iVT-""-.. e"'Ah P'.o reach Queretaro
- . u..d... t,9 a mailer
of course, as it was lacking ln mili
tary Importance.
"Monastir Is under the range of our
guns, which means that its position is
insecure. The occupation of Monastir
does not In the least change the
strategical situation in the Balkans.
CtRUVW. V II . l'OHTIMIMTO
IIPEMMi Of COVBVTIO
By Associated Press.
Carrasco. Mex.. Xov 29 Gen. Car
ranza. who arned here Sunday on his
horseback ride from Mexico Citj to
Queretaro. telegraphed Gen Candido
Aguilar. who is to be temporary chair
man of the constitutional convention, to
postpone the opening session until N'ov
u by wnicn time lien Carranza ex-
WERE LED TO CUARTEL
nother version of the fate of
the
Ing upon an oider by admiral du
' Fournet commanding the Anglo
; French fleet, that German. Austro
I Hungarian. Lulgarian and Turkish dip
lomats must leave by Wednesday, the
Greek government has ordered that the
niversity of Athens must close, ac
cording to a called message from
neuter's; Athens correspondent
Rioting Is believed to have developed
among the students. In opposition to
the restrictive measures adopted bv
the entente in dealing- with Greek
affairs. . It Is believed the diplomats;
or the central powers will make ar
ra2emente to leave Greece at once,
hi Is. s .. a measure undertaken by
the entente allies. It Is believed, be
cause of the conviction that enemy
diplomats at the Greek capital have
fong been exerting Influences upon
the government detrimental and. at
times, positively dangerous to the en
tentes cause. It is to prevent Teu
tonic diplomats from fomenting dis
cord and making offers to the Greei
government that the present measures
are believed to have been undertaken.
In the event the envoys refused to
take notice of the order sent to them,
the assumption Is that allied forcea
would place them under arrest and de
port them.
It has not been stated whether the
Greek government w as consulted about
the proposal to expel the diplomats ac
credited to Athens.
KAISER REWARdT GENERAL
WHO LED TROOPS IN BATTLE
Amsterdam. Holland. Xov 20 The
Frankfurter Zeitung says tha emperor
has personally rewarded Gen. von Bue
. ...for nli act of heroism in personalis
leadinc a battalion which stormed and
recaptured an important position In tb.
Serb? d ,Q Servla fron th
A letter from the emperor to Gen o
Buelow has been published as a cablnr
order.
The letter follows-
"My Dear General -.h..?'ith
P'easure and pride I learn
that you. in the din of battle, placed
?iV?i7eIi at.the ?eaA ot Chasseurbat
talion No. 9 and snatched from a su
perior enemy force an important height
on the Cerna, I thank vou and the
brave Chausseurs from my heart for a
d.n-Wh,ch w!" "ve in history M
sincere appreciation I especially ex-
of 'A?. H aPP'nt,nS you honorarv chief
of this Lanenburg Chasseur regiment
WAR DEALS HEAVY BLOW TO
LABOR UNIONS OF AUSTRIA
. reuna, Austria no. -a Tk.
GERMANS PREPARE POSITIONS
FAR BACK OF PRESENT FRONT
Amsterdam. Netherlands, Xov SO
According to information gleaned from
several hundred refugees from the oc
cupied regions of northern France.
w no nave been passing through Hol-
WANT U. S. TO FINANCE
MODEL HOMES FOR WORKERS
Baltimore, M. D Xo. 20. Concrress
will be urged to pass legislation j
whereb mone) on deposit ln the post- I
al savings banks may be loaned to
municipalities for the purpose of build
ing model homes for its citizens. In ac
cordance with a resolution adopted
by the American Federa'ion of Labor
convention today An alternative sug
gestion, contained In the resolution, is
thct the government shall establish
such a system of credits that the peo-
,:. na. mA . ., .. . m . '
...... . ., 4wtc OI ine ---.... ...c ..cues ana organized labo
Americans at Parral was i.rv., a , of Austria, a Mow th-. ,.." ri ir
the refugees Sunday night who assert nl!l8:Jrlle total membership has been
that they saw four Americans placed JS?uced to -'".153 from 115.195. the
ti'r "'J"."' b; yn,,8ta"' ad led m' , ontA,,1'13' k3 ?f the organiS
the direction of the cuartet. where, it llS.'Ini?3?. are bonded together In the
Is supposed. the were executed ' CrL ,td 'mperial commission" have
These Americans are believed to be !f an .? thnsand members apiece
mining company emp!oes who re- . ih..ai!i thf 'ncomes of about half o'
rfy'? &rdW;nebwi, SjSST SJ? &
'"ra'cforg"1 "'o thJnsno0? 0VS -- P
refugees. Is venting itself nartteularlv, sL 51SW ?ly aPDl4e to men
against Chinese arTd American," ftX ! Z?XSX" aLX,L ha. 1
who 2 Z "f.""""'".'" we". l"
of years at a low rate of interest
build their own homes
to
. . w tuotMiiw sowir l. aicoanieL
ECItETHY VMJ Mitt. tr.VDiiil the slain woman s husband who Is on
VliniVl; l.N LCI AGI5I.K ' trial on accusation of the murder, the
avuuceis Bttiu.
land, the Germans haeo nrAn-.a nn.. 1 nle mai hflrrnw mnnv tAr- a li-ino- ta.n.
. w;i.i3 .r.;- ""?" - - :.---'-----. ' ---- "
"" ui ucuiuu meir present rront
They are, it is said, reckoning more
and more on the possibility of a re
treat to the Belgian frontier. The po
sition" near Maubeuge ana Hautmont
are even more formidable than those
north of Lille. The old forts are de
serted, for. taking full account of the
new methods of warfare, the Germans
have constructed a network of
irencnes. and great earthen cavern
I. W. W. MEN TO SCATTER
THE ASHES OF HILLSTR0M
Chicago, I1L, Xo J. One hun
dred 3nd fifty envelopes containing
ashes of Joseph Hilistroni. or "Joe
Hill. as he usually signed himself.
Los Angeles. Calif.. Nov. 20 Wm. G.
McUoo se retar of the treasury, and
Mrs. McAfioo arrived here toda after a
trip throueh Arizona and prepared to
leave late today or tomorrow by auto
mobile for San Francisco, where th v
will b the guests of senator I'helan
g
Ur McClothlan, although a state's
witness, gave testimony favoring the
defence when he declared he could not
decide from the nature of the wounds
whether the blows had be-n lefthauded
Kvidence adduced Saturday was that
tnr blows nad been of that character.
made with the aid of reinforced con- 1 wer distributed to as many delegates
crete and Iron. J to the 10th annual convention of the
Xews comes from northern France I Industrial Workers of the World toda
as well as from Belgium of the in- i The ashes will be scattered by the
creasing number of the oopulation who delegates and bv locals of the Indus
are being put to work by the Germans trial Workers of the World to which
ln the Lille suburb of Fives. French 450 other envelopes were mailed ac
and Belgians ar; emplojed in the man- cording to the wishes of the deo-dent
naciurp or ammunition who was executed in fnh for nrnnl.v
say more than 200 Chinamen haye been
slaughtered in southern Chihuahua
...., . mu uesdn nis campaign there.
FORM A "HOMrfGUARD"
TO WARD OFF BANDITS
Villa is Impresslnc all able "bodied
meIi,a Me-"" refugee from Santa
RoPSlia reported Monday He said
ilia captured two cars of ammunition,
one car of rifles and six machine guns
,.mJien i'eotte, near Santa Rosa
lia. The residents of the Guerrero dis
trict are reported to have organized a
"home guard" to protect their property
from the bandits who call themselves
followers of Villa.
HOLDS TWO AMERICANS IN
JUAREZ; FINED 25 PESOS
Two Americans were stopped on the
main street of Juarez Sunday by a
Mexican civilian w ho demanded 3 from
each of the Americans. The Mexican
tnreatenea to kill the Americans un
less the money was given him. He was
arrested and fined 2; pt-ios Carranza
money.
ltltlC. K. CKI K KU1
PIIIIM IIOItDKIl TO I'i:itMHr.
By A&kk lati-d Prat,
n Vntonio. Tex. Xov 30 Brig
O. n. George P Stritpn chief signal uf-
(Conllnurd on Tact
"iioro percent of the old
...ct idi me organizations.
KRUPP EMPL0YESLAY ASIDE
MILLIONS FROM WAR WAGES
Essen. Germany. Nov 20 The war
time earnings of the employes of
Krupp are indicated by their savings
in the bank established for them bv
the firm. For the fiscal year 1915-16
the number of depositors in the Krupp
savings institution Increased by the
record-breaking figure of S9S3. and
their deposits by 4.SS5 S02 marks. That
brings the total number of depositors
tUoP lh5V3 amnfrt0tal "" Bp
IIARVAHD HOSPITVL TNTT
v. ?A'VS FO WR SERVICE
h f.w. lorikl.N"- 2 Six surgeons, j
dentist and 20 nurses, another addition
to the Harvard hospital unit sailed to
T..toJ "''erpoc.i. They will go to the
British base hospital in France to take
the place of doctors and nurses whose
service expires Dec. 9.
GUCKCB MUST rUItK.VDEU
IUIS TO THE BNTEiTC LL1KS
Athens. Greece. Xov. 2. The Greek
government has received a demanc
from admiral Fournet. commander of
the nglo-French fleet that all arms
artiller anti iniriunttion of tn np..t
i mi Ff 1 9? IT? 9 f5 f F -1-1: "' r-' -t'-ued on PaEe 2. Colum (Continued on PnEe . Col.mn S.
inking . 1 he Tracks Won t Do It Freight Trains MusfTBe Re-Routed
