THE BARRE -DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 211.
BARRE, VERMONT, MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1916.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
GERMAN
AID SENT
HASTE
IN
New Formations Have Been
Despatched to Block the
Entente Allies North of
Monastir, the Capital City
of Macedonia, Which Fell
Before the Serbians and
French Sunday
MONASTIR'S FALL MAY BE
PRELUDE TO BIG SUCCESS
LATTER ADVANCED
NORTH OF THE CITY
The capture of Monastir by
General San-all's army in Mace
donia U looked upon by entente
writeri at of notable political Im
portance, but opinion appear to
be divided aa to whether it will be
followed by military development
of sweeping Importance. The
eventa of the next day or two are
expected to show whether the cap
tors of the Macedonian capital will
require a period of rest before
starting a new advance or whether
the pursuit of the retreating German-Bulgarian
force will be
pressed despite ' adverse weather
conditions.
In some quarters the advance by
the entente forces along the road
to Prilep is to be followed by a
thrust from Prclip toward Negotin
in Varder, with the object of out
flanking the Bulgarians and open
ing up the frontier passes north
west of Saloniki.
line from the entente allied base at Sa
loniki is now in entente hands.
To the east and southeast of Monastir
the French and Serbian troops continue
to make gains in the Cerna river region
against the Teutonic allies, having cap
tured several other towns in thix region.
U.S. STEAMER
IN DISTRESS
ALL INMATES SAVED
AS DORMITORY BURNS
The Siberia Is Stranded and
Sending Out Cries
for Help
HEAVY SEAS PREVENT
BOAT LAUNCHING
RUMANIANS SAID
TO BE DEMORALIZED
War Materials
French Official Statement
m 1 m 11 i S"1 A. .f
10-aay 1 eilS 01 capture Ol Au8tro.Genftan Campaign Meets with
Tlill 21 and Other Villages Further Success Near Campulung,
in That Vicinity. Togeth- rHa Keports-
nnn. ti J Berlin, via wireless, Nov. 20 The Aus-
Cr Wlin OZU rnSOnerS aim tro German campaign against the Ru
manians and their Russian allies gained
further successes, the war office an
nounees, near Campulung. The Ruma
mans, whose forces were demoralized,
made attacks yesterday, but were re-
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 20. New Ger- pulsed.
wan formations have reached the Mace
donian front, it is announced officially. MONASTIR BURNING:
New positions north of Monastir were
taken up without pressure from the al
lies. The Serbian advance in the Mog-
lenica region was repulsed.
Ship Is Reported on Good
win Sands Near Dover,
, England
Berlin, by wireless to the Associated
Press, Nov. 20. The American steam
ship Siberia, according to wireless reports
received here, is stranded on the east
Goodwin sands, near Dover, asking for
help. The officers of the Siberia say
that it is impossible to launch the boats
owing to the heavy seas.
POPULATION FLED
LITHUANIA TO BE
DECLARED FREE AND
ASKED TO FIGHT
Advices Received In London Describe the
Retreat of Germans and Bulgarians
aa a Debacle.
London, Nov, 20. The retreat of the
German-Bulgarian forces from Monastir
in the direction of Prileps is a debacle,
says a dispatch to the W lreless l'ress
The vessel referred to in the Berlin dis
patch is thought to be the steamship Si
beria which sailed from Sydney, Cape
Breton, on Nov. 7 for Charbourgh with
wheat and flour. Her crew of 60 men are
said to be all Americans.
MURDERER DEON
REGRETTED ACTS
i
Germany Will Follow Plan Adopted with from Rome to-day. The entente troops
with Poland, According to Advices
from Swiss Sources, Prince
Eitel Frederick to Be
Sovereign.
Paris, Nov. 20. Germany is about to
follow up her declaration of Polish inde
pendence ,with a similar announcement
regarding Lithuania, according to dis-
are pursuing the fleeing foe and have oc
cupied the villages north of Monastir,
taking prisoners as they advance.
The Serbians, according to these ad
vices, are delaying entering Monastir be
cause of fire and explosions, which have
virtnally destroyed the city, from which
the population had fled.
Man Who Killed His Son and Latter's
Wife Died Last Night in Hospital
at Worcester, Mass.
Worcester, Mass., Nov. 20. Frank K.
Deon, tax collector of the town of Dud
ley, who killed his son and his son's wife
and then shot himself last Monday, died
at a local hospital late last night. He
had expressed sorrow for his act, which
was committed after excessive drinking
EDUCATING THE ALIEN.
FALL OF MONASTIR IMPORTANT.
rrich, second son of the German emperor,
us its sovereign. .
The first step in the creation of the
new state will be the formation of a
Lithuanian army to fight under Field
Marshall Von Hindenberg. It is esti
mated that Lithuania could raise 150,000
men.
Hatches from Switzerland to moraine pa
1 I T - ' 1 11..
rers. The dispatches say the new state w ureauy isireo iy we du.
vill probably receive Prince Eitel Fried- garians,
London, Nov. 20. The fall of Monastir
on the anniversary of its capture bv the
Serbs from the Turks in 1912 is hailed
by the morning newspapers as being of
considerable political and military im
portance. It is believed that as Bulga
ria's main object in entering the war
was the possession of Macedonia, the
loss of the Macedonian capital must
bring an acute sense of failure both to
the Bulgar politicians and military ofti
Tiiinx'ni mirirnv cers.
J1 XVIM Lil V tL,l I On the other hand it is contended that
T?AITr,l?r,n MnXTACTIi? the recapture of the town will greatly
IN lUilvEiLI IVlUrM A&IIK encourage the Serbs, whose recent val
iant capture of Kaimakalan mountain
During Sunday Allied Troops Continued prepared the way for the city's fall. The
, . . . .. .. recapture of Monastir had been expected
- J horo hut it. nnw floonrr than lari hpn
and Made Other Captures. anticipated and with almost dramatic
suddenness.
Paris, Nov. 20. Allied troops have noint which is considerably discussed
been completely victorious on tho Mace- by the military writers is the inability
ionian ironi irom ine river terner 10 f Germany to send aid to the defenders,
j.HKe rresoa, according to me rrencn Th g i claimed to have important sisrn fl
war office, the success reaching the cul- oance. It is urged that Field Marshal
initiation yesterday with the entrance yon Hindenburp. chief of. the German
of French cavalry into Monastir. general staff, had known for six weeks
During the day the rrencn moved out that Monastir was threatened, and vet
north ot Monastir ana captured mil szi was compelled to allow such an impor
and other villages in the vicinity. They
also took (!20 prisoner and a consider
able quantity of war material.
The official statement last night said:
"Troops of the army of the East se-
tant point to pass into enemy hands
without an attempt to avoid the catas
trophe.
The military commentators recognize
that Monastir is not a first rate military
cured Monastir at 3 o'clock this morning, I position, but they contend it will be
the date of the anniversary of the taking useful railhead, opening the way for an
of the town by the Serbians in 1912."
TEUTONS ORDERED
BV ALLIED FLEET
npr TTI'T, ,RF,P,1I, during the past weeks of desperate flght
" ling, are expected to necessitate a period
advance into Serbia proper. It is antici
pated, however, that the snow will pre
vent the entente from getting much far
ther at present, while the losses the cap
tors of the town are assumed to have
suffered in common with the defenders
Vlce-Admiral Du Fournet Has Given
Them Until Wednesday to Get Away,
Says Despatch to London.
London, Nov. 20. An Athens despatch
to the Exchange Telegraph company says
that the German, Austro-Htingarian,
Bulgarian and Turkish ministers to
Crecce have bi-en informed by Vice-Admiral
Du Fournet. commander of the al
lied fleet, that they must depart from
Greece by Wednesday.
SERBIANS AT HOME AGAIN.
of rest.
RUMANIANS RETREATED.
U. S. Department of Labor to Extend
Privileges of Night School.
Washington, D. C, November 20. It is
the purpose of the bureau of naturaliza
tion of the U. 8. department of labor to
extend the privilege of attendance upon
the public night school of the country
to every candidate for, citizenship wher
ever he may make his home. Hereto
fore, this work, nation-wide and impor
tant as it is, has been restricted to ur
ban centers. It is now proposed, in co
operation with the public school author
ities, to carry this great educational
campaign irlto the rural communities.
With this end in view, the bureau of
naturalization is " suggesting to every
county superintendent of schools
throughout the United States the ad
visability of opening the doors of the
county school houses at night for alien
instruction and stands ready to support
the movement to every way possible lr
its application to the candidate for citi
zenship.
In many counties general or special
public evening schools are already in op
eration and to these admission is re
quested for the adult foreign-born so
that they must receive instruction in
English and civics. Where it is found
impracticable to gather the citizenship
candidates m the school room, a plan
has been mapped out whereby the stu
dents may pursue their studies at home.
They will be able to obtain the course of
instruction from the school teachers of
their respective districts, reporting by
appointment as often as necessary for
such further help as may be needed.
Where no funds are available, it is
suggested that the work be taken up
by volunteer teachers and continued un
til such time as appropriations may be
made for the maintenance of the rural
night schools. H is reasonable to as
sume that a practical demonstration of
the advantages of instruction for the
foreign-born in the more sparsely set
tled country districts will cause the state
and local authorities to provide Junds for
their future operation.
Citizenship classes maintained for
adult foreigners in the public night
schools are of vital importance locally
and "nationally. Patriotic considerations
demand that men and women of for
eign birth, who have decided to make
this country their country, should be
helped, through education, to understand
the principles of American government
and encouraged to install American cus
toms and ideals in their home life.
Continue to Fall Back Before Teutons
in Jiul Valley.
Petrograd, via London, Nov. 20. The
Rumanians are still retiring southward
before the invading Austro-German
troops in the Jiul valley region, the war
office announces.
Building at Vermont State Industrial
School Destroyed Last Evening
and Lois it stlmated
at I io,ooo.
Vcrgennes, Nov. 20.-Firo of unknown
origin destroyed last night the Fair
banks cottage, at tho state industrial
school. Forty-five boys and several of
ficer were housed in the cottage, which
was a three-story wooden structure, part
of which was built in 1828. Recently it
had been repaired. The loss may be
around $10,000, partially covered by in
surance. One of the small boya, ten of
whom escaped in their nightclothes, ran
back in to get his clothes, was trapped,
but had presence of mind to crawl un
der the blankets and was rescued by
firemen.
Chapel services were being held and
the boys were singing the first hymn
when Jenkins, one of the older boys in
the dormitory to look after the small
er ones who had been put to bed, rushed
in la minutes after the service had
started, at 7:45, with word of tha fire.
He had been at work cleaning up the
basement when on of the small boys
had run down warning him of the fire.
The first floor was fljled with smoke. On
their rooms retiring for tho night were
Mrs. Samuel Payne, matron, her eon and
Mr. Richards, clerk, who were ignorant
of the blaze until warned.
Lyman A. Morhoqs, in charge of th
cottage, and officers and older boys used
extinguishers at hand; and the Vergennes
hre department was soon on the scene.
Three streams of wster were turned on
the building and were kept on it unti
about 10:30 oj-loclc.
The service in the chapel went on, the
boys singing hymns, and afterward they
were housed in C dormrtory for the
; v a. 1
nig m. i
The cause of the fire has not been
determined. Mr.Htorhous lined up hi
boys in the reading room preparatory
to going to chapel at 7:15 o'clock. One
boy's shoes were not properly fixed and
Mr. Morhous went down to the basemen
o attend to him. Meanwhile, one of the
boys in line went into the kitchen, the
reading room opening into the dining
room and that into the kitchen, with
doors between and when Mr. Morhous re
timed was sitting on the kitchen table
talking to Mrs. I'avna. On the stove
was cooking cereal for breakfast, in
double boilers. After administering a re
buke to the boy for breaking rules, Mr.
Morhous took the line to chapel.
Every one in the building got out in
safety and some of the contents were
saved. Excellent work was done by the
fire fighters and discipline was mam
tained.
WOMAN FLEW
, 832 MILES
Miss Ruth Law Went from
Chicago to New York
City by Airplane
CONDITIONAL GIFT
TO STATE UNIVERSITY
ESTABLISHED RECORD
FOR NON-STOP TRIP
She Traveled from Chicago
to Hornell, N. Y., With
out Stopping
TIPPED OVER LANTERN.
Hyde Park Farmer Accidentally Set Fire
' to Hi Barn.
Hyde Tark, Nov. 20. The large barn
on the farm of John Ladue near the
outskirts of this village was burned to
the ground late yesterday afternoon, the
tire being caused by Mr. Ladue a stumb
ling and dropping a lanter, which he was
carrying. Heroic work by the village fire
departnent saved the house, which is
only a short distance from the barn. The
contents of the barn with the exception
of one cow and five tons of hay, were
saved. The loss will be about $1,500,
which is covered bv insurance.
THIEVES PILLAGED
of
As Flames Destroyed Greater Part
Roscoe, N. V.
Roscoe, N. V., Nov. 20Fire destroyed
the entire business section of this village
early yesterday with a loss estimated
at $250,000. More than a dozen buildings
and residences were burned, including the
Koscoe National bank, the Faubel house,
the Beaverkill house and the local thea
tre. The village is one of the summer
resorts of Sullivan county.
Thieves took advantage of the confu
sion during the fire and stole much val
uable property. One woman was hurt by
jumping from a-window. The blaze wa
hecked by the aid of fire companies from
Liberty and Livingston Manor.
HALF-MILLION LOSS.
NOT POLITICALLY DEAD.
'Both
Bryan Says He Is in Politics with
Feet."
Indianapolis, Ind., Nov. 20. William
Jennings Bryan, in addressing the Na
tional . C T. U. convention yesterday,
said he was not dead politically, but as
serted that he "is in politics with" both
feet."
"I love my party and because of my
love for it hope and feel that it will be a
'div' Democracy," said Mr. Bryan.
He added that in spite of his desire to
see national prohibition come through
Democratic influence, his prayers for a
saloonless nation extended bevond partv
lines and that he would not necessarily
await the triumph of the prohibition
cause through the Democratic party, but
would welcome a dry nation through the
Republican party.
He also asserted the trend of circum
stances of the last few rears was such
Occupy City From Which They Were
Driven Long Ago.
Ixmdon, Nov. 20. After having been
for months men without a country, the
Serbians are again to establish their cap
ital on native soil. Monastir, in south
ern Serbia, for which the entente forces
)'ve been struggling since the advance
from their base at Saloniki began has
been evacuated by the German and Bul
garian forces and occupied by the French
and a considerable number of Serbs.
The French and Serbians having cap
tured the crest of hills partially sur
rounding the valley town the Germans
found their position "untenable and
withdrew," according to Berlin, to a. new
ioiition t the north of Monastir. Un
official advices from Saloniki say that a
temporary tapital of Serbia will be im
nediatelv es'.blihed at Monastir. With
tha reoceupation of Moiiaalir the railway amendment, perhaps aa soon m 1920." of Canaan for a hearing.
AN ALLEGED CONFESSION.
Followed by an Arrest in Island Pond
Manslaughter.
St. Johnsbunr, Nov. 20. Charles Shan
non of Island Pond wastarrested Saturday
night by Sheriff Beattie at that place on
the charge of shooting Archie Repgie.
This case has been ba tiling the officials
for some time. Young Reppie was shot
and killed Wednesday night, November
8, aa he entered his home on Railroad
street. He somehow received a shot from
the midst of a crowd of drunken braw
lers which resulted in his death. No
clues have been obtainable as to who
tired the shot from among those who
were implicated.
James R. Wood of the Wood Detective
agency was given the case and by a
process of elimination of those present.
it is reported, pot a confession from
Shannon to the effect that he shot Reg
gie accidentally. He claims he went to
tho assistance of Ovil Reppie, brother of
the dead man, who was being beaten up
Salt Plants Near Ithaca, N. Y, Destroyed
By Fire.
Ithaca, N. Y Nov. 20. The plants of
the Remington Salt Co. and the Crystal
ine Salt Co. at Remington, two miles
from Ithaca, on the east shore of Cayuga
lake, w'ere destroyed by "lire last night
with an estimated losg of nearly .$500.-
000. The Ithaca power plant was threat
ened by the flames and this city was in
darkness for several hours. The fire is
said to have started by sparks from a
passing tugboat.
New York, Nov. 20. The record-break
ing airplane flight of Miss Ruth Law, be
gun yesterday in Chicago, terminated to
day at Governor's island at 9:40 this
morning after stops at Hornell and Ring
hamton. The final 150 miles from Bing
haroton was covered this morning in two
hours and 20 minutes, and the entire
journey of 832 miles in an air line in the
actual flying time of nine hours and one
minute.
Miss Law bettered by 100 miles the
non-stop record established by Victor
Oarlstrom during his flight from Chicago
to New York op Nov. 2. tfhe covered fH0
miles in her flight from Chicago to Hor
nell. Binghamton, N. Y., Nov. 20. Attempt
ing a non-stop flight from Chicago to
New York, Miss Ruth Law, behind the
wheel of a Curtiss biplane of the mili
tary scout type, shattered all American
long distance aviation records for a single
flight yesterday when she flew from Chi
cago to Hornell, N. Y.
A delayed start together with the fail
ure of the wind cut down" her speed so
that she was forced to descend to replen
ish her gasoline supply aro responsible
for her failure to reach New York City,
said Mis Law after her arrival at Bing
hamton yesterdav afternoon at 4:20
o'clock.
Three features of the record-breaking
11
Gen. Rush C. Hawkins Offers $100,000 if
$200,000 is Collected, and Pres. Ben
ton Expects to Meet the
the Requirement.
Burlington, Nov. 20. A gift of $100,
000 to the University of Vermont was
announced yesterday, the donor being
Gen. Rush C. Hawkins of New York City
A condit ion is attached to tho offer which
makes it necessary for the university
to raise $200,000 additional before the
sunt will be paid over. It is believed.
however, that this condition can be met
as Gen. Hawkins has fixed no time lim
it.
In a memorandum Gen. Hawkins enti
merated some of the needs of the
university, among them being an audi
torium, more room for books in the Bill
ings library, a larger library for the
college or medicine, that the engineering
department should have a new building
and that the space available for the
teaching of science should be doubled or
new building erected.
Some years ago Gen. Hawkins, who is
86 years old and a veteran of the Civil
war, gave the university a valuable col
lection of books on the Civil war. This
collection is said to lie second only to
one, in the library at Princeton universi
ty.
"VETERANS' DAY"
flight stand out in bold relief against a
others.
Previous to yesterday's flight Miss
Ijtw had never before made a singl
flight longer than 25 miles.
Her machine, a small biplane, has
spread of wings less than half that of
the one (arlstrom used. It was not upe
ciallv designed for thi occasion.
Miss Law covered a distance of i5
miles in six hours and 50 minutes, time
being deducted for the descent at Hor
nell. The first fi02 miles, the distance by
rail between Chicago and Hornell, was
made without a stop.
Miss Law left Chicago at 8:25 a. nt
eastern time. She had anticipated start
ing before that hour, but the manufac
turers of the carburetor of the engine be
lieved the hot water packet should be
removed. After experimenting they de
cided to replace it after delaying th
start for an hour and a half. In the
time thus lost the aviatrix could hav
covered tho remaining distance to New
York
A strong wind blew toward the east,
Aided bv this she kept up an average
speed of 100 miles an hour at an alti
tude of 6,000 feet. During the last 200
miles before the stop at Hornell a sharp
cross-wind blew, with the result that her
sasoline tank was soon emptied. She
glided two miles into Hornell at 2:07.
After replenishing her supplv of gaso
line she flew the remaining 117 miles to
Binghamton without mishap. Darkness
overtook her and she was forced to de
scend. She continued on to New York
this morning, making the start at
'clock.
Miss Law's experience has been gained
wholly in short exhibition flights and
while the flight was held tinder the aus
pices of the Aero Club of America it re
eived but little advance advertising,
"THE WORST IS OVER"
Concerned
SHOT ON WAY TO CHURCH.
Mrs. Philip Reilly of Taunton Perhaps
Victim of Madman.
Taunton, Mass., Nov. 20. Mrs. Philip
Reilly, aged widow, was mysteriously
shot down and probably fatally wounded
on her way to church last night.
The shooting took place in a dark spot
on omeret avenue, tne assailant es
caping across a field.
The police said Airs. Reilly bad no ene
mies anil they expressed the opinion that
it was a case of mistaken identity or the
act of a madman.
WIFE OF JUDGE HOWE DEAD.
Maybelle Jane Howe, Aged 38, Died at
St. Johnsbury.
St. Johnsbury, Nov. 20. Mrs. May-
belle June Howe, aged .V., wife of Judge
Harland B. Howe of the Lnited States
district court for Vermont, died at hei
home here at 2:30 yesterday, after a
two weeks' illnes. Mrs. Howe waa born
in Danville and for many years was a
successful teacher in her native tate.
So Far as Culebra Cut Is
i Says Gtfethals.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 20. Sharp
language is employed bv Major -General
eorce . Goethals, governor of the
Panama canal zone, in replying to pub
lished criticisms of the big waterway
hich he charges have seriously affected
its commerical rating. In his annual
report, made public by the war depart
ment, the governor declares that the
earth movements which have frequently
interrupted traffic through the canal
finally will be overcome for all time.
General Goethals geos into a lengthy
review of the geological problems which
have been encountered, of the steps tak
en to overcome such obstacles, and the
measure of success attained. So far as
the Culebra cut is concerned, he said,
"the worst is over, the intervals between
movements are becoming greater and the
quantities of material less."
The report replies to the published
statements of Professor Benjamin LeRoy
Miller of Lehigh university and former
Senator Thomas Kearna of Utah. The
charges made in each case, General
Goethals brands as "erroneous, unwar
ranted and unfair." It is shown in the
report that during a part of the fiscal
year 1910, during which the canal was
opened, 411 vessels passed from the At
lantic to the Pacific and 376 in the other
direction. Of all these, only 91 were en
paped in the American coast-wise trade.
The total cargo tonnage handled was
3,140,040, as against 4,969,792 the preced
ing year, although the waterway was in
operation only nve months last year.
Commenting upon the reduction in coast
wise traflic shown, however, the report
says it was due principally to the scarci
ty of ships for foreipn trade which drew
American roasting vessels into that
service.
Difficulties of the present system of
levying tolls are recited, and freneral
(loethals again recommends that legisla
tion be sought making the earning ra-
Was Observed by Patriotic Societies of
Barre.
Grand Armv men of R. B. Crandall
post, No. 56, were the guests of honor a
a "veterans' day" observance in Worth
en block hall Saturday afternoon, when
upward of 60 members of allied patriotic
organizations in Barre came together,
The advent of the veterans at the hall
w as preceded by their own regular meet
ing in the post rooms at city hall early
jn the afternoon. Under the auspices of
Major L. A. Abbott camp, Sons of vet
erans, the camp auxiliary of women and
the Ladies of the G. A. R,, an entertain
ing program was In store for the vet
erans, and at 5:30 o'clock a bountiful
supper was served through the efforts of
the G. A. R. ladies and the auxiliary.
The afternoon program included a pi
ano solo by Miss Helene Hack; remarks
by A. W. Robinson, who explained the
object of the observance, i. e., to honor
the men who offered their lives on the
altar of freedom; a violin solo by Law
rnee Gauthier; a vocal solo, Miss Haael
Hack; a reading by Arthur W. Robin
son, and a reading by Mrs. Abbie Willey.
the program closing with the singing of
favorite army songs.
There was an abundance of good things
provided at the supper, and before "vet
erans' day" had closed, some of the men
whom the younger organization sought
to honor were privileged to speak of their
experiences in the stormy days of '61-'fl.".
John W. Averill, commander of R. B.
Crandall post, spoke for the veterans in
felicitating the Sons of Veterans and
auxiliary, as well as the Ladies of the
G. A. R. for their hospitality, and re
marks were made also by Nat. Bond and
John S. Wilson, the latter of Worcester,
who is secretary of the Washington
County Veterans' association. One of fche
interesting features of the impromptu
after-dinner exercises was the narrative
given bv Clarence Lepage, who accom
panied the 1st Vermont regiment to the
Mexican border last summer. Private
Lepage gave an illuminating account of
his experiences and observations while
with the National Guard patrol.
20 BOMBS
DIDN'T GO OFF
Although Fire Broke Out on
the American Steam
er Sarina
WEAPONS CONCEALED
IN SUGAR CARGO
Vessel Was Men i on the
Eastward P? e from
New .Nrk
New York . 20. Twenty unex-
ploded boml re found in the sugar
cargo of the American steamship Sarnia
upon her arrival at Cherbourg, France
after a voyage starting from New York
ept. z, during which the vessel caught fire
from, an unknown cause, according to
Fourth Mate Wybrance of the Sarnia,
who arrived to-day on the steamer New
York from Liverpool.
M0IR HOWARD.
Sunday Morning Wedding at the Home
of the Bride.
A 9 o'clock on Sunday morninp Rev.
Bert J. Lehigh of the Baptist church
united in marriage at the home of the
bride's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Ben C.
Howard of 44 Ayers street, Miss Ruth
l-Iizabeth Howard to ViIham A. Moir,
r., both of this city. They were attend
ed by Miss Apnea Tassie of Woodbury
and Phillip Vercoe of Barre. The dou
ble ring service was used. The bride
was gowned in white silk and chiffon,
and carried a large bouquet of bridal
roses and lilies of the valley, while the
bridesmaid wore a dress of yellow crepo
de chine and carried white carnations.
Miss Ruth Nelson presided at the piano.
the groom is well and favorably
known In the city, and is employed as a
rattaman with the firm of Waldron
Shield 4 Co. The. bride is one of Barre's
popular young ladies. Both have a large
circle of friends, who wish for them a
happy and prosperous life.
BODY THROWN IN BONFIRE.
She was prominent in all proBTessive
by the crowd, and in the course of the i movements of the town and won manv
fight fired the shot which killed Archie, friends bv her penial ways and strencth ' nacit v of a ship the basis upon which
Shannon is 27 years "of ape and is a res-1 of rhsrarter. She was a member of the 'charges should be computed. He points
ident of Portland, Me. He has been in, St. Johnsbury Woman's club and Grace 1 out that $2,3W.Mft were collected in tolls
town only about four weeks. All three Methodist Episcopal church. Besides I durinp 1916. Had the so-called Panama
are Armenians. Karlv in the week Shan- 'Judge Howe, she leaven four voun canal rules applied in measuring the
that he waa hopeful of a constitutional non will be broupht before Judge Lund daughters. Josephine, Barbara, Matilda eliips, he adds, this sum would have been
After Murdered American Had Been Dead
Four Days.
El Paso, Tex., Nov. 20. An unidenti
fied American was killed when a Villa
band took Jiminez, and four Americans
were seen under a guard of bandits at
Farral during Villa's occupation of that
town, according to reports, believed by
federal agents to be authentic, brought
to the border by refugees.
Refugees further state that the dis
trict between Parral and Jiminez has
been cleared by Villa's followers of more
than 200 Chinese. The American killed
at Jiminez was described as about 60
years of age, and known to be from
Torreon on his way to Chihuahua City.
He was murdered, said the refugees, in
the Jiminez hotel, and his body lay for
some time in front of the building. After
being robbed of clothing and valuables.
it was placed on a bonfire.
Ine same refugees, who claim to have
been witnesses of the outrages, also say
hat two Mexican women, who bad mar-
ied Chinese and their five half-caste
hildren, were found and thrown "alive
into the fire and cremated in sight of the
crowd. The Kulies of seven murdered
Chinese, according to the same authori
ty, were seen in the streets of the town.
Two Mexicans who escaped from rar-
ral affirm that they saw four Americans
there under a Villa guard. They said
thee men had lived in the town, adding
that they heard that the Americans who
rere working at the Alvarado mines, got
way. Another report was that the bod
ies of J. gypsies of both sexes were
seen on the roadside near Parral, mur
dered and robbed by Villa bandits. The
pypsies were believed to be of Syrian
origin.
All foreigners that ilia has caught.
except Japanese and (iermans, have been
put to death, the reports apree, and even
the (,erman are said to have suffered
t least in the instance of Theodore Hoe-
muller of Parral.
The Chinese are called the heaviest
sufferers. The fact that none are to be
seen in the district in which they for
merly did a larpe mercantile business, is
ken by the retupees as proof that all.
numbering over 200, met the fate ot
the Chinese caught at Parral and Jimi
nez. i
NEW VERMONT CORPORATIONS.
Barre Daily Times, Inc., and K. of C
Building Association of Rutland.
Articles of association have been filed
with the secretary of state by the Barre
Daily Times, Inc., with capital stock of
$25,000, there being 250 shares. The in
corporators are Frank E. Langley, Dean
Perry, George Maker and Phillip L.
Ellis, all of Barre.
Articles have also been filed by Rut
land council, No. 232, Knights of Colum
bus Building Association of Rutland, Inc.,
thont capital stock ntnd not organized
for profit. The signers are E. P. But
ler of Proctor, H. C. Brislin, W. E. Grace,
John S. Dorsey, F. A. McCarthy and R.
n. Moroney, all of Rutland.
FUNERAL HELD SUNDAY.
That of Johnson Vivian Held at Granite
ville Presbyterian Church.
The funeral of Johnson Vivian, who
died at his home in upper Graniteville
Thursday, following a shock, was held
Sunday at 2 o'clock at the Presbyterian
church in Graniteville, being preceded
by a prayer service at the home at 1
o'clock. Rev. George Keeling of Wil
liamstown was the ofliciating clergy
man and burial was in the Wilson ceme
tery. The bearers were Dan Ryan, Wil
liam Ryan, Andrew Wyquist, James Mc
Carroll, Norman McDonald, and William
Corrigan.
The church was filled far the service.
4uring which the choir sang three se
lections, "Take Comfort, Christian."
"Jesus Lover of My Soul" and "Iead
Kindly Light." A long procession fol
lowed the body to the cemetery.
Among those from away who attended
the funeral was Mr. Vivian's daughter
Mrs. J. H. Yole of Fort Ann, N. Y.
MRS. A. T0USSANT.
Graniteville Woman Died After Illness
of Two Weeks.
Mrs. A. Toussant of Graniteville passed
away at the City hospital Sunday after
an illness of two weeks. Besides her
husband, she leaves three children. The
body was taken to the Whitcomb under
taking establishment in Hast Barre and
later to the home of the deceased. The
funeral will be held in St. Sylvester's
church at Graniteville Tuesday morning
at 9 o'clock. The parish priest. Rev. Jo
seph Turcot, will officiate, and interment
will be made in the new Catholic eeme
tery at South Barre.
BETHEL
TEACHER'S BODY FOUND.
Bina M. Shorey of AthoL Mass.,
Drowned Herself.
Had
Athol. Mass., iNov. 20. The bodv of
Misa Bina M. Shorey. the high school
teacher who has been missinp since
Tuesday night, was found yesterday in
hllis pond. Iespondencv over separa
tion from a favorite sister who is teach-
D. W. Hodgdon died at his home In
Berlin, N. H., last week. He was a mem
ber of the firm of Bean Hodgdon, own
ers of large timber tracts in Bethel, Bar
nard, Stoekbridpe and Rochester. He
conveyed to his partner, A. M. Bean of
Milan, X. H., his interests in these lands.
At noon yesterday Rev. C. C. ilson
broke ground at Roslindale. Mass., for
the new Church of Our Savior, which will
seat 400 and will cost $50,000.
The Camp lire Four" girls gave a
strawride to (iaysville last Friday even
ing, R. E. Burnett carrying a load pf
about 25.
The Christmas tree industry was at
its height during the good sledding last
week. Thirteen carloads will be shipped
from the C. V. station here and 13 car
loads from the I.illieville station on the
White River railroad. The farmers are
paid l1 cents a bunch averaging three
treen' to the bunch. The buyers do the
cutting and binding and hire the farmers
to carrv them to the railroad. The tree
shipped from Vermont this year will go
mostly to Detroit, Milwaukee and Cleve
land.
'.wrenee (J. Ho!lrnok estimates that km
and Harriet B. Howe.
increased by approximately $400,000.
ing in Africa, and mental depression
brought on bv overstudv. are believed
by relatives to have caused Miss Shorey has 2" to 31 buhe1 of potatoes in th
so tale her life, grouad under the snow.
