WEATHER. | V t ^FJjf "From Press to Home
k 1^ A {fir |T^ ^SjCT |jj Within the Hour"
VLH V /"^ >U^vl iXl lAA ''
?- - - . J f I | / kWom >>t Clrcalfitlon, "??1h of Frhranry.
(LOSING KKW YORK STOCKS PAGE 20. A. ^ ^ ,BI8, D""r 4,m?' SO.^SO: Saada?. ST.txs.
No. 20,266." ~~ WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, MARCH 2:1. 19W.?TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. ** ONE CENT.
HEARING ON BRIDGE F
SHE 10 BE HELD'
District Commissioners Act on A
Request From the Secre- j
tary of War.
TO BE MADE THE BASIS P
OF REPORT TO CONGRESS
Interested Citizens Asked to Appear Ci
Before Board Monday Morning
at 10 O Cloek.
Washingtonians will be given an op- ;
portunity t?? express their views with j
reference to t h?- location ?>! the* pro- !
poser] new Aqu 'dm i bridge [ jy
At the susses ion of Secretary of War;
Faker the District t ' mniissioii',i"s will''
h<>id a hearing for this purpose in the ;j|
board room of the munieipirl b Aiding
at 10 o'clock Moudav mom ng.
Both the < 'hamher of >'"ntnirnc andjti
the Georpeto w u Citizens' Association j .1
had requested a hearing before Secretary
Baker on the subject. but the cab- 1
net member d? ? bled that, inasnmeh as
the matter is of general interest, it ^ j
would |.? better for tii* < 'otutni--: ion- ;
ers to give a public hen-tug. I*(
The S? <! t a i \ of War has been ie- v
ilp'st cd b\ '"org < foi his opinion as.
to w h t would be ; n' oner loeatioti for I
the bridge. taking int?? eonsifb-rat ion |
military ?: essities ami requirements; b<
f ib- government and the business in- j "v
terer ts of the Distri- t. lh- rejec t will jw
not In- transmit t'd to t'onur'ss until i"
aft0! the 'o::iriiission*-rs have sounded ; ol
out local public opinion as to the most j ca
;? -i a bic location j A i
In Ins letter to the 'ouunissioners. Secrotary
Baker called attention to the fact
that the War l?epartmerit has been n
asked by th* Senate, through a resolution
offered by Senator Nelson, for an
expression of ;ts views as to the best
location for the proposed strueture and
also has received requests from various
persons interested in the location of R<
the bridge for hearings before final acHon
is taken by the department
1 ve
Requests for a Hearing. -su
Requests of that character have been
received from the Washington Chamber
of Commerce, the Georgetown Citt- <H
zens' Association, the Citizens' Associa- UI
tlon of Alexandria County. Frank C. Jjj
Heil of G street northwest. Frank Lyon w
of Clarendon. Va.; the Columbia Gran- J
ite and Dredging Company of the L)istrlct
and others, expressing vital con- vi
cern in the settlement of the question.
Although the majority sentiment t i <
seems to favor the location of the pro- ro
posed new structure at or near the site ra
of the present Aqueduct bridge, as pro- no
\ided by the Carlin bill, it appears also de
that there is a strong .sentiment on the vi;
part of residents of Virginia and other i se
petitioners to have the Washington ap- j se
proach to the bridge located at the foot !
of either G or H street, so as to have j
it "nearer the heart of Washington.'" ]
The Columbia Dredging ?'ompany de
with a draw to permit of the passage i er
of large tugs, barges and vessels with _
masts. That company asserted that the |
river is navigable for three miles above j F'?
the present bridge and that a draw J sc
would be needed in the new bridge "if |
rhe waterpower at Great Falls is to be I al
developed " j
Secretary Baker's Proposal. j ,lt
I \ih
"As the board of ?"ornmissioners of i .
the District of t*olumh:a." said Sccre- |a?
:ar> Baker, in his letter to that body, i til
are the representatives of the people j ^
' n?-e: rung ail local matt'-r?. it seems!
o tpf it wo ild be a g<?od plan for the j th
,-tni : <'ommissioners to have a pub- to
ii'a-ing at w lii' h the v arious views ^
rid on the subject <an be presen t ed hi
11f? tboroug! !v discussed. If the Com- j r,j
n ; s v h ?n e r s v\.i! th?-n give me at an | tll
at ly date the benefit of the ( oiirlu- | w
MOt r drawn bv tl;?*m as a result of the
earing* atid their < oris nl< ra t i??n of the.
rgumont. pi eye n t ? !. together with aj
op; of the hearings. I shall then be
. a positron r?? t.ike the matter up ! W(
and deal with it with reference to th? :
interests <onimittol to the charge of:1''
this depat tment. ' ra
PRESENT SEES OCULIST I
AT PHILADELPHIA TODAY ^
|h>
' j ha
la Accompanied on Special Train for th
Brief Visit by Mrs. **
ol
Wilson. pa
PHILADELPHIA. March 23.? President
Wilson paid a brief visit to Philadelphia
today to consult his oculist. His
eves have been troubling him slightly
recently. He was accompanied by Mrs.
Wilson.
The President's arrival here was delayed
by a hot box on the engine of his
special train, which developed at Terry
vi lie, Md.. and caused .1 wait of thirty
minutes on a siding while another engine
was being hurried from Havre de
G race.
Although the President's plans were
surrounded with secret v. fair-srzed
crowd recognized him at the Broad
Street station here and applauded as
he stepped into his automobile with
Mrs Wilson He went to the office of
ii;o uv unci, ?? nrr?- r i?- oni\ a T ? W
minute?.
Will Hetum Here for Dinner.
Following ;?n automobile ride, Mr
and Mr*. Wilson planned to leave for
Washington, whete they will arrive in
time for dinner.
The President brought with lmn dispatches
concerning the Mexican situation
sent to the Whit? House by Secretary
Baker before his departure. He
experts to see Mr Baker soon after Ills
ret urn
The ['resident s automobile as it w as j
driven through crowded streets to the i
oculist's office was preceded b> a
platoon of mounted police. The street
in front of the specialist's office was
crowded while Mr Wilson's eves we ?
being examined, and when he and Mrs
Wilson cami out the$ were greeted
, with cheers, which the President Acknowledged
b> raising his hat.
The President, before going for the
automobile ride, visited his sister. MrsAnne
Howe, and her daughter. Anno
Cochran, in Spruce street, near by.
President Wilson left Philadelphia
at 2.0.'5 p.m. for Washington.
?
f
OROSE WARMINGI
101. R.. IS STORY
nnouncement of Roosevelt's Dr
Acceptability Would Mot ,
Surprise Pennsylvanians.
OLITICS IN HOME STATE M.
SAtD TO BE RESPONSIBLE
_ i a
ontiol of Party Organization In- 1X1
volved in Question of Instructing
Delegates.
IViins\ lvania politician- in:
t a-hington wouM not be sur-j u-t
risol to licar am day now that j
enator Penrose would lie agree-!'"
ile to tiie nomination of Thco- !
ore l\oo-cvelt for President oni""
tc regular republican ticket, it j 'x'
lere seem- to be material senti-:1"
tent favorable to the colonel. ll j"1
-aid that if Senator Penrose;' '
lould take such a stand factional i u'
publican politics in Pennsvl-;,..
" j
ania would l?c responsible for the me
. Stf
Dr
For more than six works a rumor has ^
en curronl that Senator Penrose was
enrmin;; up" ti? li'?oso vol t. No one
oulfl print the report because it could
>t he crinfirmort. Not a w ord could ho ! p
tamed from the senator. It finally fro
me to tho surface today when Mayor \,tr
rmstrong of Pittsburgh was quoted, n)^
ter Senator Penrose's trip to I'ittsirgh
last work and conference with der
ate leaders, as follows: p
reo
Pittsburgh Mayor's Views. by
in
If there is a majority sentiment for Ino
oosevelt among: the uninstructed dele- V
ites in the republican national con- r
iur
ntion. Senator Penrose will throw his jJO
ipport to the colonel for the nomina- at
on. 'tea
,* , _ Pe?
oenaior renrose is ior ine man wno
n win for the republican party and
lite all factions all the way down the ^
le. If the delegates are for him. and
lieve he can do this, the senator will n "
ork for the colonel's nomination." Br;
Senator Penrose, when seen by an tj,
vening Star man today. said:
I absolutely refuse to be interewed."
it
rhe situation in Pennsylvania poli- mo
is said to be causing Senator Pen- 7
se keen anxiety and no little einbar- wa,
ssment. It grows out of the an- ,jrl]
uncenient of Gov. Brumbaugh's presi- ^is
utial candidacy and the opening of a vva
gorous campaign by the governor to qU#
cure delegates instructed for him- 7
If- wit
Opposes Brumbaugh Candidacy.
I'his is opposed by Senator Penrose. fei
is said, for the reason that the gov- foe
nor is supposed to be working with the
mator Penrose's political enemies in tr"
?nnsylvania. atid for the further rea111
that the senator, so it is said, has
1 along insisted upon uninstructed '
'legates. tor
rhe politicians say that if Pennsylva- th:
a should send an instructed Brum- W;
iug)i delegation to the convention it int
ould be regarded by all republicans
overthrow of Senator Penrose's hold
on the state organization and the to
iprernacy of Brumbaugh and the ?tl
ares, the latter the senator's enemies, to
Pennsylvania ns can only account for SCM
e reports thai the senator inclines '
Roosevelt on the ground that pos- ^'v
hly Ik- finds the only wax to secure
linstructrd delegates would be by ?f
nting that the way should be left t-?.
ten for the Pennsylvania delegation '
go to Roosevelt if the convention fi,?
ants him. att
for
Weakens Ingenious Theory.
Tics ingenious theory, however, is "ie
rakened hv the common belief amone .
I >r
nnsy lvalue* that the Rrumhaugh wf,
n d 1 d a c \ js in realitv a stalking horse bo*
r Uoosrvelt. and that if the governor
f h f
< < ( ! js in getting instructed dele- j1H,
ites he will be ready to hand them me
ti to Koosevelt at the first oppor- s,?
""> wa
Senator fvnro.se's friends have been tod
r> much disturbed in the past week
his on-rommittal attitude, and '
ve beer, eagerly awaiting a statement
some kind from him. They say that ^
e Brumbaugh revolt is gaining rapid
adway. and that the prestige of the bo<
nator's smashing victory in his re- jn
ection bids fair to be seriously im- .
lired unless he ran stop it.
hui
? ? Mr
2!?.
she
2d Time This Week
Yesterday was tlio second
time this week that The ' "ia
Star printed more advertis- J,7s
ing of the local merchants jnT
than all the other Washing- -k
ton newspapers combined. J]"
The reason for this is that a m*
single advertisement in The Ple
Star will sell more goods t
than the same advertisement
tn all other Washington /
? th(
papers. t?j?
Pe>
YESTERDAY'S FIGURES 5'
dei
Local Display thi
Linei. ar;
The Evening Star. . . .19.574
r
2d Newspaper 6.308
3d Newspaper 5.297 Mr
4th Newspaper 4.839
16.444
3,130 lines more than tie
other three !"'
"c
The Star's circulation in
the homes is greater than a 1
the home circulation of the ihs
other three Washington
papers combined. Th
ids
ON-IN-LAW HELD |
FOR PECK'S DEATH
. Arthur W. Waite Is Found
in Stupor From a Self-Administered
Opiate.
AID SAW VIAL POURED
INTO MILLIONAIRE'S SOUP
I
senic Found in Stomach of Drug
!
Dealer. Whose Wife Also
Died Suddenly.
\r:\\ Y< >Rk. March i )c-!
ii\ f- -cut tcxlar 1" arre a I )v. !
tlmr Warren \\ aite in conncc i
hi with the death. March u. of
- father-in-law. Joliu li. I'eck.j
lliimaire drnggist ?>f (irand
ipid-. Mich., lonnd ltint in a ;
ndititm of sttipnr a- a result
an I'jiiate. -elf administered. |
i\ sieians at noon todav were
irking 011 iiim to save liis life.
bstrict Ailornpy Swann soon ft<*r*
it hour jinr.T.i fit Dr. Waite's apart
111 and wont in. accompanied by <
tnoerraplior. It was given out that
Wait*' had taken the opiate to ince
sleep and it was believed that In
>uld recover.
To Charge Him With Murder.
istriet Attorney Swann. emerging j
rn I ?r. Waite's apartment shortly In - J
e _ o 1 -lock, made this announce- j
m.
1 shall charue Dr. AY aite with mur
itr the first degree."
r. Waite was reported later to have'
overed sufficiently to bo questioned j
the district attorney, but not to be !
a condition to be immediately roved
from his apartment,
feantime Assistant District Attorney
three presented the ease to the grand
y. calling as the principal witness
ra Heiler, a colored maid employed
Dr. Waite's home at the time of the ZZ
ith. on March 12, of Peck, and of
k's wife some time previously. P
More Witnesses to Be Heard. |
he records of the health department
ieh reported Peek's death due to
ight's disease also were placed before
i jury. No action was taken by that
Jy in the case today. More witnesses,
was announced, would be heard to'rrow.
'he district attorney said Dr. VVaite ! H
? iri no condition on account of the w
ig he had taken to he removed from
apartment, while his mental state f
s such that it had been difficult to i
stion him. 1
'wo detectives were left in ? barge j
h orders to bring him to police head- j
irters under arrest as soon as his
idition permitted.
rials and boxes containing three diferit
kinds of deadly poisons were
md on Waire's clothes and put into { "
: keeping of the detectives, the disLt
attorney said. o;
Poured Something Into Soup. sl
t was given out by the district at- W
ney's office that Miss lie./er had said jj
it on two occasions she saw Dr.
lite pour something out of a bolt! {
o Peck's soup. Peck complained of \\
* taste, and Dr. Waite, she is stated
have said, blamed the cook On an- '
ler occasion, the mai-i was declared i
have said, she saw Dr. Waite pour m
nething also into Peck's tea.
"he arrest of Dr. Waite was ordered w'
District Attorney Swann, who also ev
s had under investigation the death rri
Mrs. John K Peck, two months prior
that of her husband.
he order for Dr. Waitc's apprehen- "
n was decided upon by the district 10
orney following the receipt of in- (^
mat ion from Orand Rapids Indicatthat
Peck ma\ have been poison- P'
Tins information w as n rf-ivfil last i h
lit from representatives of his office, j
o went to ?;rand Rapids, including br
(>tto H. Schultze, medical examiner, Hi
o performed an autopsy on Peck's he
ly, which had been sent there soon
er his death here, March 12. Today
district attorney is understood to
,e received further information bear:
on the case, which led to his d?<i- f j,
n to take the man into custody.
? Waite's home on Riverside drive
s under surveillance last night and j
lay by a squad of detectives, who co
irded the exits of his aiiartment to lit
vent anv attempt to escape. fh
m,
Arsenic Found in Stomach. M.
rwo autopsies performed on the w<
Jv of Mr. Peck disclosed arsenic
the stomach and intestines. The
ly of Mrs. I'eck could not be ex- |?.
ined because it had been cremated, ta
n. Peck died here suddenly January
Her husband came to New York a
rt time after her death to console
daughter, and died March 11'. L'n- Ka
a day or two before his death he
med to he in excellent health. Mr. .
k left an estate valued at more
m $1,000,000, divided equally be :en
his daughter, Mrs. Waite, and . .
son. Perry Peek of Grand Rapids,
'he New York district attorney has ,K!
his possession a telegram signed .
addressed to Percy Peck which
't caused suspicions that Mr. i'eck
I not die from natural causes. The
ssage said:
Suspicions aroused. Demand autop- ?*
s. Examine body." .
he local authorities have not anunced
the name of the sender of this
egram. If they have discovered it.
iceording to information received by m,
5 district attorney from Grand Rap.
effects of the arsenic found in Mr. 1X1
rk's stomach were noticeable in the
iln tissue, proof that the poison was
ministered before death The unrtaker
who embalmed the body in p
s city asserted that there was no
jenic in his embalming fluid.
ei
Talks With District Attorney.
>r. Waite and his wife took Mr. o<
ck's 'body back to Grand Rapids. Sl
s Walte remained there at the home
relatives, and reports from Grand
pids say that she has been ill for tl
,-eral days, a physician attributing
r condition to hysteria. Dr. Walte .
urned to New York, and yesterday
had a long talk with the district atney
regarding the case He declined p
make any statement for publication.
>r. Waite. told the district attorney
it he had studied dentistry at the
iverslty of Michigan, and had taken
course in dentistry for a year at a tl,
iversity in Scotland. He declared
it he had been told that the police
re investigating his father-in-law's pi
ifh for the first time last Monday.
ereupon he said he had telegraphed
his brother-in-law in Grand Kapi.
demanding an autopsy. M
r
i,
l i
J
HiNWG
Tft 11 1 I Iftrtl ,rkT '
MIMI HILL
ermans. However. Have
Gained a Foothold at This
Point Near Verdun.
LONDON". March -M. The
rench arc still clinging to a part
i the little hill of llaucourt.
ruth west of Malancourt. ou
hich the Germans gained a footlast
evening in an attack
long the front between Avocourt
ood and Malancourt. northwest
f \ erduit.
I'aris announces toda\ that the <>ran
infantry attacks in this sector
pre not resumed during the night, and
en the fire of the heavy artillery diinished
in violence
The bombardment east of Hie Meuse
as continued with undiminished innsity.
The persistence with which
e Germans are pounding the P'rench
sitions near Vaux and Damloup, in
ift region, indicates that they proh?13"
are preparing: for new attempts to
ea k through in the sector where thei?
iff have been pushed nearest to the
art of the stronghold.
French Positions Menaced.
The I .oka I A nz.f igej of Berlin savs |
at in view of the progress made yesrdav
hv German troops near A your
r ih?- P'rench line between Bet binurt
and Malancourt is now menaced,
asserts that the PTench positions are
reatened from the east by the Goran
successes in the region of Dead
aii's hill, and from the west as a.
suit of the German victory in the
noded region northeast of Avocourf.
Die newspaper points out that the
wn of Avocourt is only seven kiloeters
froin the important Vcrdunir
is railroad, the intervening disnee
being covered with woods and
lis.
French Communication.
riie French war office this afternoon
Lve out the following statement:
West of the River Meuse the homirdment
diminished last night. The
lemy did not renew Ids attacks on
e little hi!, of llaucourt (about one
lometer southwest of Malancourt),
irt of which we hold v
'Fast of the Meuse the bombardment
is continued with violence at several
lints on our front.
'In the Woevre there has been no im
rtant development to report, with the
;ception of an intermittent cannonadg.
'West of l'ont-a-Mousson a surprise
tack upon a trench of the enemy in
e vicinity of Fey-en-Ilaye resulted
our taking several prisoners.
The night passed quietly on the realnder
of the front "
German Statement.
The text of the official statement
iven out today at the German army
?adquarters in reference to the westn
arena says:
"The German success near the Forest
' Avocourt has been completed by the
cupation of the French points of
ipport 011 the mountain ridge southest
of llaucourt. About 4f>0 prison's
were taken
"t \t It c. in i w?? I lio t'f'UM'-j I cil not inn nn I
le western front is unchanged."
LIEUT. COL. REBER INJURED.
alls Over Bannister Rail of Stairway
at His Home.
liirut. Col. Samuel Reber f 11 over
ie bannister rail of a stairway in his
>me, is:u Jefferson place, today, and
tinged down the area way to the floor
low. Hts injuries are serious.
He is a son-in-law of Lieut. Gen.
iles, retired.
3S-\ 1/
Till". PRESCRIPTION.
SIDELIGHTS ON BERLIN IN WAR TIMES.
Eyewitness observations upon the life of the city
< iennany is taking no chances of harboring spies
"starvation" a mere dream. Read this article in Tin
i Sunday Star.
Serious Rebellion in Mexico
' Perilous to the Expeditio
i
All U. S. Available Forces Will Be Necessa
If Large Bodies of Carranzistas Go
Over to Villa Is Pointed Out.
i
'
Seriotw rebellion in barranza's army would render the posit
of tile American cxpeditioiiarv force -o perilous that even av
aide soldier in the I nited States would be rushed to the border
reinforce the advancing columns, l or that purpose not more t
about 15.000 men would be available without calling out the Natir
1 iiiard. There are now on the border or in Mexico approximat
_'5,ooo soldiers, and in the whole of the continental I 'nited St;
the other mobile forces number only a little more than =;.ooo.
\rmv officers pointed out today that it ?as with the pos>ibi
of such a development as the revolt of llcrrera itt mindvthat (,
1'unston delaved sending hi- men into Mexico until he was pre pa
to deal with a much more serious situation than the mere pur:
of Villa and his few hundred-- of followers.
Confirmation Still Lacking. I '' "as said, over the sunplv situa
but had reported no shortage
< "onfirmation of the report that ih?*; The Navy department was wifl
farranza garrison of 2.000 under Luis ad vires from Tampico, where a
Herrera at Chihuahua had revolted and OUietins? situation has been indie;
.. .. ,, , , . , . . IM unofficial reports. A message f
joined Villa was still lacking todav at Admiral W'hislow on the west <<
the War Department, although a dis- said quiet prevailed at Ensen;
patrh to that effect was passed last Lower ? alifornia.
night by the United States Army cen- Secretary Lansing Returns
sor at Columbus. The War Department ^ 8 xveturns.
insisted that Gen. Kunston's message Secretary Lansing, returning froi
last night stated merely that "it is W ek's vacation, took personal oha
reported" that the revolt had occurred. of ,he situation so far as it conce
adding that there was no confirmation. State Department. He confer
Gen. Kunston's problem is to dispose w'th Elesio Arredondo, Gen. Carran
the troops at his command in such ambassador, who presented a disp;
fashion as to insure the line of com- ^rom ( onsul Garcia at El Paso den>
munication behind the forces in Mexico. ~ ",tlt "c'i*ra nan rev
A message from Gen. Funston last efJ witfc; the Chihuahua garrison
night said the motor truck trains had \ ilia.
Matisfactorily solved the problem of ( ?unselor J^olk and Mr Arredc
saiihuoum/ ? discussed with Secretary Lansing
getting supplies to the advance col- proposed protocol for joint action
umn. Gen. Funston had been uneasy, the pursuit of Villa. The prelimii
negotiations had been taken up dui
* Mr. J>ansing's absence, and today
was fully informed of them.
" Mr. Arredondo said he found
DAY TN CONGRESS Lansing in accord with the protoco
it has been drawn and forwarded
Gen. Carranza and that lie expe<
Senate: some word from the general to
Met at noon. . co,mP|e,e ?f?reem
probably late today.
I>ebate resumed on Indian ap- A draft of the protocol asked for
propriation bill. Gen. Carranza, to govern the operati
Finance committee considered of the American expedition in Mej
House resolution repealing free seeking Villa, agreed upon by Act
sugar tariff provisions. Secretary Folk and Eliseo Arredoi
was forwarded to Carranza last ni
f 1 for approval, and is expected to bf
Met at 11 am effect within a few days.
Debate on atony reorSan,za- Si"
lion bill resumed ls ^novvn however, that it is desig
Ways and means committee to minimize tiie possibility of mis
" ' " .... ucinirtimiii^ "fiwetfll I lie TWO gOVe
administration tariff commission ments by setting: forth tlie rights
legislation. each in the extraordinary circt
Naval committee continued na- stances existing and prescribing as
tional defense hearings. as possible the methods of co-operat
to be employed bw the Mexican ;
DISTRICT IN CONGRESS. ouuYws" ,roo"s in ,h,! "urauit of
Senates Offers to Send 100 Men.
Senator Sheppard of Texas re- When" the Senate met a telegram fr
Introduced hit. District prohibi- ? rmz?n of Yankton. S. IX. offering
tion bill in amended form. , "K
House send a hundred men as soldiers
Miss Florence Etheridge of the service in Mexico was submitted
Federal Employes' Union ap- Senator Johnson of South Pake
peared before subcommittee hear- When the telegram was read Sena
ing tlie Nolan three-dollar-a-day r, . , . . .
Penrose said he was glad to learn t
Chairman Page of Pistrict ap- 1her? "*r* MU.-b p*1 ri?tcitizens
propria! ion bill subcommittee South Dakota. Thc incident promp
announced intention of inspect- senator cnaunian 01 me ior?
inn suburban roads hi connection I relations committee, to address
with the completion of the bill. (Senate briefly, cautioning against
Tavenner bill prohibiting Tay- re,a^V1? such telegrams,
lor stop-watch system reported. 'while I do not wish to criticise
^ (Continued 011 Tenth Page.)
1 HERRERA Rl
DENIED 01
LOYAL TO'
i BORDER SUUAfiOlTi]
I
IS CAUSING WORRY1
I
Gen. Funston and Staff Study-1F
ing Plans for Quick
^ Action.
I |
| ; FORCE AT JUAREZ SAID I
ON VERGE OF REBELLION
Carranza Troops at Torreon Are 1 1
Manifesting Signs of Wavering
Despite Official Denials.
SAN \\TO\ro, Tex., March!
J.v?Orders going from I'ortj
Sam I louston provide for rapid!
? ?t ,i.? i,?,a,,.-!
. civ II' 'II ?tl |M?||ll.-> rtl'MI^ HIV. I'UIVUI
! >hould new rebellions in Mexico
1 make it nece-sarv.
lien. Iunston i< not altogether
convinced of tlir truth of tlte report
that <ien. Luis lierrcra, the
deposed military leader at Chihuahua,
had entered the field with
Villa against the United States, I
but the repetition of the report |
and the absence of acceptable evidence
to the contrary cause the '
general and his staff to regard it '
as probably true. 1
The censorship imposed at 1
L.l I'aso by Gen. Bell was done '
a w ithout orders from headquarters 1
here, but it is known that Gen. 11
Bell has authority to go far in the 1
exercise of his own judgment in ,'
meeting an extraordinary situa-1
tion.
Studying Border Situation.
Staff officers of Gen. Funston are i
studying: a mote extended area of;
northern Mexico today. The probable I -t
Vy moves of Herrera and his 2.000 men are ^
being considered carefully, and at every'
point along the border note is taken of , 1
the positions of American troops and!
the tyne it will take to move them to j
meet any situation. : '
Army officers believe that if Herrera .
.: lias revolted his activities will be con- J
lined t?? operations that have for their ?
oil-j object the strengthening of Villa's
bands and the harassing of <Jen. Per- ' t
- to , shing's force. It is feared that lie will j
? nr the Northwestern railway over I <
hail which <5eii. Funston hopes to receive!
permission to move supplies to the' 1
tnal \mericari troops, now almost 200 miles i
j into Mexico. To prevent this move}'
LeiV ?Ien. Funston is powerless, and it is I
doubted if Farranza's troops are in po- J
itCS : sitiott to oppose Herrera. <
Keports at headquarters that Hen
jGavira's garrison at Juarez is ahoul to' j
revolt ami that the troops at Tnrreon :
are manifesting disaffect ion an- teJgarded
with apprehension at the fort . j
" The Mexican consul here continues to j
red | deny their truth, ami reiterated his as-j
. sertion that Herreja had not taken the
-lilt j field.
Persistent Rumors of Attack.
i ion rol.l'.MBUS. N At.. March 29 ? Although
officially denied at army headdVs_
quarters here as an "unfounded falseited
hood." reports persisted today that
roin pome of the motor trucks carrying supr>ast
pjies 10 Gen. Pershing's command in
ada, Mexico are missing, together with
their drivers and guards.
Two trucks with two drivers and i
four guards which left Ascension for |
n Casas Grandes last Monday have not
IfPen seen since, it is reported. It also 1
rKe was said that a driver reported to the
uns advanced base here without his truck.'
red Further reports indicate that Gen. !
Luis Herrera. Carranza's former mill-'
ZH s tary governor of Chihuahua, with his
itch i\000 men, is between the San Pedro
ing river and foothills of Sierra Madres,
oit- Just north of the line of the Mexico
Northwestern railway in central Cltiarid
huahua.
('(immunisation between the military
ndo base here and Gen. Pershing's command
the 'n Chihuahua was again interrupted
i in by intermittent rains during the night.
iarv Hotfi the wireless and field telegraph
-ing line were hampered. It is expected.
lie however, that conditions will he normal
later in the day. A quantity of wire
Mr. arrived in the night and work of rel
m* nairinc the field telegraph was begun
[ to immediately. 1
ted y
go Amateurs Hamper Army Wireless.
e,lt* DOUGLAS, Ariz., March 1*3.?Amateur
by wireless stations along- the border a
?ns have been picking tip radio messages I1
tiro , , , . h
jng from (.en. Pershing s headquarters, t
ido, government officials said today in ex- h
8llt plaining why trie wireless with the s<
in expeditionary forces has been working
lion so badry the last two days. No arrests
It have been made, but stations put up
ned by several boys have been dismantled, tl
un- Whether any of the army messages
irn- have been caught by Mexican operators
of I is not known. CM
mi- Rumors that Gen. t'alles had been re- m
far cruiting a large force at Cabullona. ai
ion eighteen miles south of here, and at
and other points in northeastern Sonora r*
the were declared false by the American hi
and Mexican authorities.
Trooper Robert Kettle, who attempted
suicide two days ago, is improving
slightlv. with a chance of recovery.
om t
to | fh
f?r Missing Men at Casas Grandes. i r?
by OOM'MBI'S. N. M. -March 23.?Wire-I
)ta. less communication with the Ameri-Jd<
tor can expeditionary base at Casas ja1
hat Grandes was resumed today, and it
was learned that all the transport gi
ijr,, trucks and whroiis. with their drivers )'
the and four guards, who left Ascension rj
the for t'asas tirandes last Monday and a,
who had been missing: reported today. ff)
j_h? The trucks were delayed by the heavy ti
sand trail. ^ cs
EBELLION
FICIALLY;
CARRANZA
IUNCTURE LIKELY
TO EMBARRASS U. S.
:ear Entertained That Maneuver
May Cause Interruption
in Communications.
BANDIT IS SENDING OUT
MEN TO ENLIST PEONS
?nvate Advices Confirm Report of
Wholesale Defection of the Garrison
at Chihuahua.
Kl, PASO, !>*., A| ii rt'li ? Ik undo
Knriquex. efiil s?trrn?r ?>r I lie
Mtnfe of i hihiiahua, aent a Irlctrnm
lo tonanl t.areia nl 101 I'nao. '|e\?
today, deelarinu thai ?.en. I.tiia llerrrra.
commanding the Karri *00 at
t hihirahua Pity, Mtill un? loyal to
the firNt chief. and not to credit report
a of hia defeetioti to A ilia.
hAI.A KSTOA, 1>%~ Mar eh
t.en. liiiia Hcrrera la conduct inK ?' tive
military operation** attain**! the
\ ilia force* and hat* not lionr olefin
the handit leader, accord iok to
a cablegram from Me%ieo Pit> reeeived
by the Aletiean eonmhtt*
here today.
l-'L PASO. Tex.. March 25.
rancisco \ ilia and (icn. Luis
[lerrcra arc making rapid maneuvers
to join their force-, ac
rording to adv ices received todav
rom the same sources that con
irmetl early tilts morning the report
that llerrera had gone <>\cr
to Villa with _\ooo of his followers.
Villa is said to lia\e established
a has^ to the westward ot
\amiquic|ua to reorganize his
rommand and recruit new men
'or his arm\. The American
trim base at Columbus ha- had
to news of \ ilia for more than
.wo da vs.
<ien. Litis I lerrera. until recentv
in command of the Carrauz.t
garrison at C hihuahua C'itx. i-aid
to be moving northwestward
:o effect a junction with \ ilia,
old this, m connection with tin
report that the C'arranza gam- -u
tt Torreon had revolted, has ..
asioned grave concern among
lie \merican army officers in
LI La so.
May Harass Gen. Pershing.
Villa men, iiimnifht"! 11? *
mantl of 'Jen ll<'tirr;i. raid to iriui.*
miplit ho in .i positmn to hat tss
Ion. Pershing" s am y and - rio'i l> merupt
the line of ?,ommiiiii?,:timn !>? xtopii
the advanced base of Amci ; an
ones at t'asas Crandos.
An early agreement with t !" <\ttranza
government for thr perm ssion
o use Mexican railway Inn:; igr.atlv
ieslred by army odicers. The main
'olumbus to Ml I'a so and the Mexico
Vorth western railway could !?*> used to
dlip jnen and supplies to Casus
Jrandes.
The railroad could he easily tnain.ained
against interruption vvhile the
present line southward out of t'olum:?us
over a desert might he readily cut
should Villa recruit a formidable body
jf men. \'illa is said lo have sent
i gents among the populace in the
nountain districts urging them to sup
>ort him against the Americans h nd is
quipping his men with arms and amnunition
which he had stored. There
s no confirmation of a report that <*ol.
,'ano of Carranza's army has joined
orces with Vila.
All was quiet in Juarez arly today
nd street ear service, which was sunended
last night for fear of trouble
i that Mexican city, was resumed,
'he railroad bridges, however, are
till under guard.
So grave was the situation regarded
ere that the military authorities planed
today drastic steps to relieve
11 Mexicans in Ml I 'a so of any arms
riey might have concealed in their
otnes and enforce what would be pracically
martial law in ' Little t'hihtiaua."
the heart of Ml l'aso's Mexican
;ction.
Waited All Night for Outbreak.
All night long Ml J'aso waited for
ie warning whistles which would tell
lat the expected outbreak had ??? jrred.
Three hundred soldiers with
achine gun detachments waited under
rms fbr any emergency, and the poln
serves, equipped with titles, were a ..
eld ready. Again and again nim-.i
in through the town that sliooin-i;
ad been heard in Juarez, but ; < h
me the> proved baseless.
It is understood that government of
ials here have sent to Washingtoi
commendation couched in ilm strong
:t terms, urging tnai steps i?e i::\. v
? disarm all Mexicans along the In.;
?r, taking the tight of for< ihk- entry
id search if necessary. I'p to tin
-esent it is said that the Washington
lthorities opposed such a step <.n th?
round that it would he mis^iterpre'ril
i the Mexicans as discrimination
gainst them and in violation of their
ghts. It is now insisted by the local
ithorlties that the time has passed
v any delicaey in handling the situaon.
!t is pointed out that no w^nerlm
is permitted to enter Mexico prmed
h - - j
