Subscribers
of The Daily Gala
City are served the full Leased
Wire Service of the United
Press
Associations.
VOL. 122. NO. 71.
Chihuahua City to join Villa and
Cano's rumored revolt, the Carranza
garrisons at Torreon and Cabullona
are said to have mutinied and declar
ed for Villa.
There was no confirmation of theso
reports. Five thousand former Vil
listas who were mustered out of the
bandit's service when their generals
surrendered In Juarez and received
the American envoy last fall, were re
ceived Into the defacto army. These
are among the chief troops reported
having gone back to their old leader.
El Paso's fears- of a local uprising
were increased today wlion Melchor
••^Herrera, brother of General Luis Her
'•'. rera, was arrested in this city and
^charged with recruiting Mexicans here
for the purpose of attacking El Paso
^Reports that the Juarez garrison wa3
Dream of El Paso Since the
Days of the Alamo, is for
Annexation.
iTBy EX T. Oonkle. United Press Start
Correspondent.]
Eli PASO, Texas, March 23.—El
Paso, war capital of the United States,
is frankly for war—the more war the
better E31 Paso will like it. Mexico In
American hands is "El Paso's dream.
Its hotel lobbies today are lined with
millionaires who have made their
stake in northern Mexico, who dream
of the day Uncle Sam will throw his
protection over the rich mining and
cattle region of the south and allow
them to pile up their millions without
fear of ruin.
They are frankly adventurers. Some
have discarded the high boots for tbe
Patent leather pumps the horse for
the motor. Others, new products, still
have the look of the pioneer. For all,
Mexico in American hands spells mil
lions.
"Hell, ain't we Americans? Ain't
we entitled to the same protection as
Kew York? We made our money Just
as honestly as Wall street did and a
more so." said one gold miner,
who sits in the big boards in Wall
street.
These millionaires own vast tracts,
rich mines, great forests, mostly by
Srant of some Mexican dictator.
Labor was cheap. It was easy to
run a shoestring into a shoe store.
They did it. They took a chance, but
coir, they ask Uncle 0am to doubl"
If#'
I KJl 9 -u
Predicted Uprising Against American T^/jps'
Entrance on Mexican Soil, Appea*
to be Under Way.
CHRBftSZA'S WEM DESERT BY WHOLESALE
El Paso Fears Raid by Native Mexicans or an
Attack From Juarez, Just Across
|Dy B. T. Conkle, United. Press Staff
Correspondent.
HL PASO, Texas, llprch 23.—The
predicted uprising against American
troops on Mexican soil is un)er way,
ft was feared here today.
Reports of Carranza forces joining
Villa, while not officially confirmed,
persisted.
With no word of Villa's where
abouts since Monday, he Is believed to
have escaped. The 900 troopB under
Colonel Cano, who were supposed to
have defeated this bandit near Nami
quipa, are reported to have gone over
to him. This would explain the silence
of Juarez officials regarding the out
come of the reported battle.
the^ine.
Juarez Commandant Gavira said
on the verge
".fef- revolt resulted In a
strong guard icing thrown along the
border. Mayor Presto, of Juarez, and
Commandant Gavira were understood
to have severed relations following a
wordy quarrel over
American troops on
combined attack on El Paso from the
Juarez garrison and by the. 'Jarge
local Mexican colony has long' 'been
the city's bugaboo.
nn
STbliXS.»bo",a
TEXAS ANXIOUS FOR WAR
AGAINST MEXICO AT ONCE
A
Reports of General Herrera's defec
tion were circumstantial. With bis
2,000 well armed and mounted follow
ers, he was said to be marching south
ward. Until a few days*ago he was in
command at Chihuahua City but when
deposed by General Carranza for
drunkenness, it was reported Herrera
Cano withdrew after his rumored vie- took his personnel with him. No dis
tory,, an ungual proceeding, which orders or fighting in the vicinity of
practically confirms Villa's escape and Chihuahua City have been reported. A
suggests collusion. small garrison remained in the city.
Unless the American forces return-1 General credence was given the re
ed to their base at Casas Grandes ports that practically the entire 6,000
•when they heard of Villa's E row!
up: former Villistas have renounced Car
numbers, General Pershing's cavalry ranza and were on their way to Join
squadrons were believed to be hot on, the outlaw in southern Chihuahua.
Villa's trail. With these seasoned lighters Villa was
They were within a day's march of expected to make a stand against the Mnriran embasav here
Namiquipa on Monday. American forces pursuing him. During
Besides the 2,000 well armed and his retreat southward he Informed
mounted Carranzistas under General, Mexicans he was saving his bullets for
Luis Herrera reported marching from the "gringoes."
He is reported to have sent re
cruiting officers throughout southern
Chihuahua spreading the false report
of 300 Mexicans cremated in El Paso
rivet their title.
Louis, New York
should march to death to clear their
title and they don't understand, in
fact most of them are as ready to
saddle and go to battle as they are to
send others.
A notch down are the merchants,
hotel keepers, business to whom un
interrupted tratfic spells good living.
They fatten as the men higher up
prosper. Their works have the same
interest.
Then too, they believe open war
would mean the end of the menace
which has lasted since the Alamo. El
Paso, with her 75,000 people, has a
large per cent of Mexican. Across the
•border are 15.000 more Mexicans at
Juarez with only the shallow watnra
of the Rio Grande which General
Funston could wade.
Carranza soldiers sit at the other
end of the International bridge taking
toll. But beyond all. the appeal of
gold, land and cattle is another reason, nounced at Petrograd,
The border has suffered American
cattle have been stolen, American
mines and ranches have been plunder
ed American women have been rav
ished and their babes at breast slain.
Every town, every hamlet along the
border has the proof In gravestones
or wrecloed lives. The average Texan
hates the Mexican tri-color as the
crusader hated the crescent. War
with 'Mexico may be a matter of poll
tics, business,' statesmanship with the
great east and central states, but with
the -border it Is aB deep-seated as
human hatred.
Right or wrong, wise or foolish, the
border Is for war. The rest of the
United States might as well consider
that at the start
i* •'-m
'T'T
\r i^
chase is located today, is ntft known,
the censorship was partially extended
to El Paso to cover preparations for
the city's defense. A complete censor
ship was expected here as soon as Ma
jor General Funston establishes head
quarters in El Paso, simultaneous with
the removal of the supply base from
Columbus to this city. The transfer
is not expected to take place, however,
lntil Carranza grants the American
expedition permission to use the Mexi
can railways. Stories brought by the
soldiers overcome by the hardships of
forced marches acrosB the desert,
have Increased the demands in army
circles for railway transportation to
avoid useless suffering In the ranks as
well as delay in supplying the expedi
tionary columns.
Carranza Consul Garcia in El Paso
today issued a formal denial of the
No News From Aviator.
COLUMBUIS, N. M., March 23.
the presence of Lieutenant Robert S. Gorrell was still prisoners.
Mexican 'iftjll. A missing early today, but hope was not The Fre
entirely abandoned that he might
Garcia's message follows:
"You may emphatically deny the
story that alleges that' General Luis
Hun dr eds ^an we
red "the ap'peaLIt a^t
ended In Cano, the commander of the constitutionalists ernment
Carranza forces. Joining Villa after a! was a portion of General Her
short skirmish, according to' report. Ijera troops under the
ce fa Vaya aerreed that M©xl* Cano who were fighting With
villi... bjjdiu l-ly
other. Joining forces. Villa was be- noon and nisht. The
lieved to have led them toward Bachi- engagement Is not yet known on ao
neva where General Candelario Her- count of the wires being down be
nandez and 1.500 Villistas were last!tween Juarez and Madera
reported to be located.
Where Colonel Dodd's cavalry
squadron in the vanguard of the
1
you."
was considered entirely possible
o, General Funston today.
Ask tnom why at. I "General Pershing has not reported
and Chicago boys
tQ m0 ttlat
lieve he may
Other dispatches from
Kir
gv*"
.nw-
Railroad May be Taken'.
SAN ANTONIO. Texas, March 23.—
That General Pershing had taken
over the Mexico Northwestern rail
way and was operating it south of
jje has done so, but I be- in Riverside drive.
have done so," said I Traces of arsenic
(Continued on page 9.)
-f^g tr r-
The Llndfield was built In 1891 and
displaced 2,276 tons. She was regis
tered at porsgrund, Norway.
The French bark Dougalnvllle also
has been sunk. Her crew of twenty
three was resoued.
TWO MORE STEAMERS.
LONDON, March 23.—The steamers
Sea Serpent and Kannlk have been
sunk. Their crews were saved.
[Unlted Pr08B
Herrera revolt. He said Herrera and PARIS, March 23.—The Germane
Villa were deadly enemies. „de „o new attack, on the west
Garcia threw further doubt on the
alleged clash between Cano's men and
Villa by stating that he had no ad
vices from "the reported battle of
Namiquipa."
announced this afternoon.
Near Fayenhaye, east of Pont A
Mouason and about fifty miles south-1
on
turn up safely and account for his dis-j tween Malancourt and Avocourt. The
appearance since Monday when he Germans made no new attempts to
•as last Been soaring soutt of Casas enlarge their positions at this point.
Grandes. I Violent bombardments occurred at
It was hoped that he had not fallen! several points last night, particularly
from any height or forced to descend east of the Meuse. There was inter
among hostile Mexicans. No reports mittent cannonading In the Woevre.
of an aeroplane seen falling or found!
demolished have been received. How
ever, the gravest fears were begin-1
nlng to be felt for Gorrell's safety
His aeroplane, No. 52, was believed to
be, perfect .condition when he
started" "on' Ris' scfflitlhf 'fllght. The
aviation squadron reported encounter
ing occasional high winds over the
Mexican hills. Three machines out of
eight are disabled.
Denial of Revolt.
WASHINGTON, March 23.—Car
ranza Consul Garcia at El Paso today
1
embassy nere
denying that General Herrera has re-
French maintain their positions
the slopes of Haucourt
TEIAJCSES OF POISON
POUND IN BODY
Police Working on Three Cases
Wealthy People Who Have
Died Recently.
The wires bring Waite in. The arrest was made
have now been repaired and I am ex-1 following statements said to have
nectln^ particulars which I will send been made to a colored maid.
I il A
Polke and the district atorney's of
fice here were working on two death
mysteries which may have involved
Casas GrandeB to the Cumbre tunnel' his wife are two of the victims. Mrs.
Peck, Grand Rapids millionaire and,
by peck died here January 30. Her hus
band died March 12. The deaths oc
curred in the apartments of Dr. Waite,
(Continued on page 2.)
Half a Million Russians
Are Denting German Line
1
8
Petrograd
iK&giSiSSC
v"
1 hl" ***,*&£'t
'V
KEOKUK, IOWA THURSDAY, MAli. 23, 1910
MEXICAN TREACHERY IS FEARED
[United Press Leased Wire Service] jitUnlted Press Leased Wire Service.]
LONDON, March 23.—The Norwe-I BERLIN, Maroh 23.—German troops
glan bark Llmffield has been sunk, have captured the ridge southwest of
Thirty of her crew were rescued and Haucourt on the west bank of the
brought Into Queen stown today by the
bark Silas.
Leased Wire Service.]
bank Qf the Meuse
bombardment
,aRt night and the
northwest of Verdun
Domoarumen
otfte»
slackened perceptibly, the war offic-
Meuse, a strongly fortified French piv
otal position, the war office announced
this afternoon. In this fighting 440
French prisoners were taken.
EXPLOITS OF THE MOBWE.
BERLIN, March 23.—The first story
of the exploits of the German com
merce raider Moewe permitted to be
made public elnoe the Moewe returned
to a Gernwtn port, was Issued through
the semi-official news agency today. It
dealt with the Moewe's battle off the
African coast with the British steam-
1
er Clan McTavlsh which was sunk
after a short bloody fight.
"The second day after the App«m
was captured, the Clan MoTavish was
sighted at 4:30 a. m," said the state
ment. "The McTavlsh being a swift
vessel, the Moewe' could only approach
her after a long chase.
"The Moewe's wireless operator In
formed the commander that the Mc
Tavlsh was sending out wlreleee oalls
for help. The Moewe first warned the
Britisher and then fired a shell whloh
con
tinued until the McTavlsh, having
been hit several times, signalled *we
exploded on the bridge. The fight
unt||
nrr #.+• Lr .-I
1
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
PARIS, March 23.—The chancellor
of the American legation at Sofia has
b*en arrested by the Bulgarian
authorities, according to a dispatch
received here today. He was charged
with bribing a police official to Issue
volted. Instead, he said, Herrera Is certain passports. The American
actively pushing the campaign against
Villa.
minister has demanded his release.
of Tafrt Visits In Ames.
[United Press leased Wire Service]
AMES, Iowa, March 23.—Former
President William Howard Taft was
[United Press Leased Wire Service] greeted with full military honors by
NEW YORK, March 23.—District I the cadet companies of Iowa state
Attorney swan tod.y ord.rel the ar- eon*. M. arrl™I h.ro for
rest of Dr. Arthur Warren Waite, son
in-law of John E. Peck, Grand Rapids,
Mich., who died here March 12, sup
posedly of arsenic poisoning. Detec
tive Cummins was commissioned to
To
the poisoning of three people whose printed Prcis Lease'l Wire Service.]
combined wealth was approximately I WAS-KINGTON, March 23.—Presi
$2,000,000. I dent Wihson went to Philadelphia to-
return this evening.
poisoning were
Citw.
"cTav,sh.
+hat wag 8ent to th
ha
T^e naprat,V8 of the CIan
1 1,0
MoTav-
ndrrativo OT tno uian ITIV I
C°""t
Dohan, oommander of the Moewe, who
also related the story of another ship
/bottotM
"About a month later," said the
Moewe's commander, "w» sighted at
nigiht time a ship whose nationality it
was Impossible to ascertain. It was I
quite immaterial under what name the
ship was sunk. But It was pitiful that I
we had to sink a steamer with 1,000
bottles of pommery wine on board,
since we had no more stuff ourselves.
"We sighted the British liner Ap
pam off Maderla," said Count Dohan,
"and approached her after long delib
eration In view of the fact that she
had guidon and passengers aboard-.
"Finally I signalled 'stop Immediate
ly.' The captain of the Appam did
not obey the order, so I fired one
warning shot, after whiich the steamer
stopped. When we crossed at the left
of the Appam we noticed sailors of
the British navy who were about to
direct cannon against us. These sjtll
ors were driven away by rifle fire.
"At first panic reigned on board. It
only ceased when the prize crew ar
rived and quieted the passengers. On
board the Appam, besides four officers
and thirty sailors of the British navy,
we found gold cases In a safe, which
we carried to Germany."
G. W. day.
talnment. Including a
to be attended by Governor
Clarke. During his stay here, Taft I
will be the 'guest of President and
Mrs. Pearson, of the college.
consult on Occullst.
dav to oonsnit
an oculist He makes
thg trip a|)0Ut
once a year. He will
Hindsight.
St. Tvouls Globe-Democrat: Villa
knows by this time that the Columbus
expedition was ill advised.
The Russians it7s oMclaUy an- Northwest of Verdun, the Germans' of Dvinsk. General Kuropatkin is Reports from General Funston, not should revolt a^inst Carranza or re
lented I are striving desperately to capture a rolling up heavy forces to the attaclc entirely authenticated, that General fuso to reco2 ni7e the protocol, it
•tin rorman Hn» nt Knif a H/vrr»n
dominant height in the Avocourt re- against the German railway positions, Luis Herrera, Carranza military go\- would be practically a nullity.
Saces UhoMciil dispato eg today re-' gion. Emerging from the Avocourt but the German war office claims that ernor of Chihuahua, had deserted to Secretary Baker declared he had not
XTd ^e^ttlel^ng^^^eat! woods, the Bavarian reglMents found the attacks have been repulsed. Vil?a with 2.000 menPresented ofronfrxnatlon of the reported
furv forty miles south of Dvinsk themselves upon an open plain raked A further extension of the eastern possibilities, officials admitted. In- Herrera defection. No messages had
The Slavs on this sector are driving bv the fire of scores of (French guns, front fighting is bringing into action creasing official concern was another come to his desk from the front. Fun
westward toward the Vilna-Dvinsk The German attempt has met with forces almost, as large as those engag- report that Colonel Cano, of the Car- ston report was transmitted as a re
wesiwara to a tne vima wins
„ccess. The official statement ed In the struggle for Verdun. raiwlstas, supposed to be fighting VJ-
Augusta, Georgia, Suffers Most Disastrous
Conflagration in Her History During
the Night.
HIGH THE BLAZE
At' Least $2,000,000 Damage Done When Bust
ness and Residential Sections Were
Destroyed,
[United Press Leased Wire Serrioe]
AUGUSTA, Oa., March 2S,—Augusta
was prostrate today under the moat
disastrous conflagration in Its history.
Much of the business district and a
large area of the finer residential seo
tion was a charred and amoklsg mass
of ruins.
At least one and ponMy mon H*ee
have been lost.
Estimates of the damage ran any
where from $2,000,000 to «ran creator
loss.
Hundreds of Augnstans are home
less. Fire companies rushed "here by
special trains from Atlanta, Macon
and Savannah last night, were still on
duty early today. Hospitals were
crowded with Injured. Merchandise
from stores and household goods piled
In the streets, were guarded by the
local militia.
The worst devastation wrought" by
the flames, which broke out late yes
terday afternoon In the big Dyer of
fice building, was In the very heart
of the business district. Among the
principal buildings destroyed were
the Western Union, Djrer, Empire
Life, Postal Telegraph. Commercial
club and Masonic temple. Several
banks were also destroyed, but most
of their contents are believed to hava
been saved.
Ruins were searched today for vic
tims of the Are. Dozens of persons
were injured by falling walls and fly
ing debris. A high wind swept the
flames up Broad street, the principal
business thoroughfare.
A general call for relief funds was
issued today. Thousands of dollars
have been voluntarily subscribed.
wiTl address the student body on im- ter square ^"Z/TToOO OOO^
port
ant national questions. Elaborate erty SC' y^
Plans have *-™deJ^^
Under Control at Noon.
AUGUSTA, Ga„ March 23---After
o(
The burned buildings include ten
MILITIA OF THE STATES
MAY BE CALLED
Mexican Situation Has Become
so Grave, That This is
Considered.
1
[tfy Charles P. Stewart United Press, removing the threat of a German of- Rl£a.
Staff Correspondent] I fensive on that sector when weather The.German war office
LONDON, March 23.—Half a mil-1 conditions are more seasonable. The noon reported heavy Russian assaults
lion well equipped Russian troops, un- majority of London critics believe the night.
der direct command of G«neraVKuro- *eatherin^ not ®nd oAvidoy'^nci in the'region have "to call for the national guard or by the reported attitude of the C*r
lfnn ^a "front nf at leas" month
south volunteers for border patrol work. ranzistas at Juare if Genen* Gavira
front the French war office last night There was a lull In the Verdun bat- la forces inear Namlqulp:a, was actual lirnmtlon. ...
admitted the Germans gained a foot- tling last nlrfit. official statements ly parleying with Villa with a view There has been some confusion In
hold on Haucourt hill in this region, ifrom the German and French war of- to deserting Carranza. petting supplies to the Ame. .can col-
railway. Whether Kuropatkln's heavy
blows are the beginning of a great
offensive or .nerely an attempt to
lift the pressure on Verdun, it is too
early to determine. The Petrograd
correspondent of the Morning Post
cabled
move has
Kuropatkin is employing large forces.' LONDON, March 23.—Von Hlnden-iwith 440 prisoners, but no Important the international bridge being cut off. As far as his advices show, not a
today that "the sreat^Russiani [By Charlee P. Stewart, United Press the capture of a strongly fortified Juarez opposite El Paso, were in a, trucks now in service and tho supplies
ias begun" pointing out that Staff Correspondent.! French heieht southwest of Haucourt, rebellious mood, communication over situation satisfactory.
Press
[By Robert J. Bender, United
Staff Correspondent]
WASHINGTON, March 23.—'For the
first time since the Villa man hunt
was ordered, the government
seriously considered possible
I eity of using the states militia on the in a real emergency.
Uces thia afternoon agreed. Still another report -was that Gen- umn, it was revealed by the secretary,
Russians Are Active. The German war office announced eral Cavira and his command at but his nicht messages showed motor
hurg's front Is being heavily assailed changes elsewhere. The loss of a por-' Yaqtii Indians on the west coast and single shot has been "red ny .-.meri-
declare the Russian offensive as an by the Russians on a gradually widen- tion of Haucourt hill, northwest of Villistas near Tampico, were re- cans since they left Columbus, nor has
attempt to batter in the dangerous lng 'rout, now reaching nearly 200 Verttun was admitted by the French ported active. he any word that any Americans had
German wedxe in the Dvlask resloa. 1
mile-. 1b •. sodtheaetertr curve from jinu- office. 4 Secretary of War Balcer "had not a, been killed as reported.
1&
s*
THE WEATHER
Bain andl warmer. Local temp
—7 p. m, 39 7 a.m. 24.
OCulnu DQBIlNv
residence blocks. Three
persons are homdcB. Several fly*,
men were Injured, some ot them Cram
adjoining cities wbo responded to tbe
oall far help.
Owe Ps«q «rt NMtovfltat
KASTHVELi®, TenaL. Mkrch tt«—»
Fire which swept Blast Nashville teta
yesterday bad burned Itself out today
wlCh a loes estimated at $1,500,000.
The flames out a swath through the
finest residence district fifteen blocks
long and from one to five blocks wide
averaging sixteen houses to the block.
Hundred® of homeless are being oar
ed for by business and charitable or
ganizations. Only one death, that ot
an unidentified negro, has been re
ported.
...
1
in.
TEN PAGES
Oes Molwea Ptrtkm fteandar.
pUnlted Press Leased Wire Service!
DBS MOINES, Iowa. March 23.—
The Des Moines primary election
scandal ten days ago when thousands
of alleged illegal votes were cast,
came to a head today when attorneys
for John B. Hammond, reformer, ap
peared In the district court asking for
an Injunction restraining the city from
holding the regular election next
Monday on the gronnd that the primary
nominations are illegal and fraudu
lent. He charges that the Judges al
lowed Illegal votes to be sworn In by
the thousand and counted them. Bear
ing on the petition was set Dor 4
o'clock Saturday morning.
1
Oae Pipe Buret
[United Press Leased Wire 8errfc»J
CHICAGO, March 23^—Tvro are
dead, seven are In a serious condi
tion and twenty others escaped wtth
slight Injuries here today when a
pipe In a south side boarding bo
Inhabited by Greeks burst early
day. The dead are:
D. Antonopoulos and 1 BMtonafl
•—Advertise In The Gate CBtfb
OUT
syllable^ to eay stoont the mflltt* stb
nation today, but he did not deny that
he la considering a can to the state
troops.
If It becomes necessary to cstl oat
the national guard, army officials said,
they would be used merely for serrlo*
on this side of the border, while the
regulars are dispatched into Mexico.
Most of tbe mobile army In the Unit
ed States Is already in or near Mexico^
In addition, the government has the
coast artillery, the army in the Phil
today tpplnes and Alaska and several thous
neces- and marines of the navy to call upon
Mexican border. The protocol between the state de
Every available man of the regular I-part ment and Carranza for use of
army may be needed by General Fun-1 Mexican railways as supply routes
eton to cope with the Villistas report- vras practically arranged today. It
|ert reinforced by deserting Carranrls- awaited only the approval of General
this after- tas. iCarranza.
Xf the entire regular army now in Whether the protocol will be of real
in"theT region of Jacobstadt the United States is thrown into Mexl- service in sending supplies to General
Mitau-Jacobstadt rail- co. it is believed the president will Perslilnp was rendered dubious today
por
he had heard without official con­
