FINANCIAL EDITION
Cuenmn
BMlger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
VOL ll.-NO. lGd
PHILADEIiPUIA, THURSDAY, MAltOU 2a, 1016.
CorrmoiiT, 1916, bi in Fotuo JyiDOM Coun.st.
PBIOB ONE oE&ft
U. S. TROOPS TAKE MEXICAN
RAILWAY IN MOVE TO STRIKE
BANDITS FROM TWO ANGLES
i
forces Already on Way Prom Casas
Grandes to Madera Region for
Blow at Villa Bands, Say
El Paso Reports
Reported Desertions of 5000 Carranzistas to Outlaws
Rouses Border and Guards Rapidly Shifted to
Block Possible Attacks Herrera's Brother
Arrested at El Paso
WASHINGTON, Mnrcji 23. Secretary of Wnr Dakcr this afternoon sent
3 to Congress estimates of more than $8,000,000 needed to cover the costs of the
isMexIcan expedition and the recruiting of the army up to full strength, as
! authorized last week
EL I'ASO, March 23. Police Captain Hall today said he was in possess
ion of facts showing; a plot by 200 Mexicans in El Paso to loot and burn the
dly. Eleven men were arrested, including n brother of General Luis llcrrera.
General John J. Pershintr. commanding the American expedition into
Mexico to get Francisco Villa, has taken over the Mexican Northwestern Rail
way south of Casas Grandes in order to cut off the outlaw bands and direct
an attack from both north and south, according to El Paso dispatches.
Reports of the action show that it was with the consent of the Car
ranza Government and that Carranza soldiers also have left for the south,
200 having entrained at Casas Grandes for Madera.
The exact whereabouts of the Villa bands are not known, neither are
the Dositions of the American troops stated. But today's moves indicate that
F. the Villistas. arc in the region about Madera, northwest of Namiquipa, and
that the U. S. troops are east of that position, with other detachments to
the north, probably still at Casas Grandes, from where the attack will bo
timed.
Movement of the troops already has begun, according to EI Paso advices.
Reported desertions of Carranzistas to the 'Villa standard gave the border
lituation a more menacing aspect. General Herrera, deposed commander at
'Chihuahua, is said to have left his post, taking with him 2000 well-armed
men ready to unite with the outlaw chieftain. General Cano, from Nami
" qilipa, also is said to have deserted.
A total of 5000 former Villistas, recruited into the Carranza forces, are
b oeiievea to nave joineu tnc oanuits. umciai connrmauon is lacKing. uarranza
HHConsul Garcia at Juarez officially denies the rebellions, but Americans on the
. corner uouut me aiuiuiiiem.
Rapid movement of troops along the, border towns facing Mexican posts
Uai-ded by Carranzistas indicates that too much faith is not beinc nlaced
NiA de-facto government troops. '
Hi 'Reinforcements have been sent to Brownsville. Tex., directlv across from
tHftainoras, a strong Carranza garrison; '' ' " " 1.- " .
Washington advices say that the entire United States Army has been
jspiaccd at the call of General FUnston, if needed, and if intervention became
a necessity. Forces continue to be rushed to the border. An infantry de
tachmcnt from Wyoming, just back from the Philippines, left today-by way
fb Denver for the front. Other details are also en route.
No confirmation has been received of the reported engagement of Amer
ican forces with the Villistus south of Casas Grandes, where it was sitid two
il'American scouts had been killed.
The. State Department was concerned over the silence of Consul Letcher
lit Chihuahua, reported seat of the carranzista rebellions.
PRESIDENT WILSON VISITS OCULIST IN THIS CITY
Ux J-L i Wmwm3tm9Um2MS
. ; : t,L,t... . '..... S..:.?Z ; s- . a
The country's chief executive
and Mrs. Wilson are seen leaving
the "office of Dr. G. E. Do
Schweinitz, at 1705 Walnut
which Included Dr. Cary T. Gray
son, arrived from Washington
shortly before noon. In addition
to the usunl number of Secret
Service men, the President wns
surrounded by a cordon of 20
mounted policemen, 20 reserve
officers and a squad of detectives,
forming tho largest guard ever
placed about a visitor to Phila
delphia. The party returned to
Washington early in the afternoon.
QUICK NEWS
REICHSTAG MAY SIDETRACK U-BOAT DISCUSSION
EliltlilN. March 23. All resolutions bearing on the subraarinJ
hriets ol fhc CSovernm"nl were laid on the tnblo by the standing
ri'ntMw f'lr rMjulatlrui of iiirliiuiicnlnry business in the Jtclchsitag
1h;, This action, it is believed, Will picvcnl open debate "between
tMllw'jt fftul vtiu Tiriilla rnclidiiM.
ITALIAN SHIPS CAN CLEAR WITH GUNS MOUNTED
WASHINGTON, Malch 23. The State Department ruled, today
that tho mined, Italian liners Rcglna D'ltnlia nnd Cascrtn. may clear
from New York with their guns mouuted.
FOUR SHIPS SUNK BY U-BOATS OR MINES
LONDON, March 23. The British steamship Sea Serpent haa been torpedoed.
The crow was saved. Tho Norwegian Blilp Kahnlsh was sunk today by m
German submarine or a mine. The crow was saved. Tho French steamship '
Bougainville, 7200 tons, lias been sunlc by a German submarine Twenty-threa
members of tlio crew wcro' picked up and landed today. The Boueanvlllo hailed
from Havre. The Norwoglan bark tilndfleld, 2276 tons, has boon .sunk off th
Irish coast.
SLAVS EXTEND
DENT IN FRONT
OF 200 MILES
Forces Almost as Large as
at Verdun in Terrific
Struggle
GREAT CURVE FROM RIGA
Kuropatkin Attacks Railway
Positions and Berlin Says
He Has Been Repulsed
ITCKSIILMi TAKES RAILWAY
TO MOVE TROOPS TO SOUTH
f iIU, I'ASO, Te. . .March S3. American
Etrjiaiis have taken over tho Mexican rnil
troiids to stieed tin their mirauit of Piinclio
feVlJIa, It was stated here today.
uumqrs of tin Inclnlent rebellion itnioiiB
ICarrattzlsta troops against co-operation
In, the campaign aculiiht Villa, their old
leader, were ocrhAdoed by thla new
Jiroleatlons that the Htep was tahen
with the consent of the do facto Govern
Imeiit wcro seen in tho leport that Cnr-
Iranza General Ilertanl with L'OO men left
Casas Grandes today on a military train
for Sladera.
Hrleadfer General Pershinc tool: charco
afif thn ATpvIi'ii Vrirtl,i...tn,.ti from :im.ih
(Grahdes to lfapr three days bko. it as BLAMED ON TAX RATE
aid, ins action had been Kent a secret.
If .American infantry was moved to
tUadcia, iih reported, the troops may now
ke south of Villa, althoiiKh th absence
rf any Information as to his whereabouts
FACTIONS IN HOT
CLASH AT MEETING
TO DISCUSS LOAN
City's Lack of Money for
Bare Needs Openly
Disclosed
ConthiurU on rase l'ltr, rulunin One
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
tor Phihulp.liihin miff. ifiVuiytl
iFair tonight, with lowest temperature
Want Si degrees; Friduu fair and
mariner; gentle Tiorthweut winds be
Morning variable.
for details see page 4.
LOST AND FOUND
IATCH lt. Bold-filled. eentlemn' watch
I . who initials 11, u. n oetweea
' ubwir at Cheatnut at. (errlea to II road Bt.
otatlon. going from liroad St. Station In a
, jM'cab to 1833 Bpruce. Howard If returned
Bl to "t "-'" 'vv " -". --
Kr--, ... j,
ST Small leather ghopplns bac on Mar. O.
91.. 'i1. nKt ai money a ucKeia, vwku
- bSh ttnc Cambria and ITth & Kenwood ave. j
Bsd.r may keep money. 1" 82U. Ledger OB.
iWy.F lt. aealikln muff with brown ribbon!
"road street Station or dermantuwn Irulu.
t A"". March 31. Heuard If returned
JSOt. T.Ji hoe maker, 1SJI1 Cheetnut at.
i QUier !,,( uud i'ounJ Ad on l'to H
EIGHTIETH ,
ANNIVERSARY
SATURDAY nest, March
25th, the Public Ledger will
celebrate its Eightieth Anniver
sary by issujng
A Special Supplement
In which distinguished men in
IlUblie lifp. prlitara nnhlialiara
-and writers of note will give-
ineir impressions of the fubJtc
Ledger past and present. It
will also contaiii an interesting
review of the Ledger's history.
The deni-'nd for this Anni
versary Number with free
S'jpplqaiet.t promises to be ex-
t i Mv boaV-
Order your cap$- today
Waning political factions uithin the
Organization used the public heailne of
Councils' Finance Committee tills after
noon as a means of airing their animus
and cmkisIhk past deeds. The meeting
was called presumably 1o discuss tho pro
posed t8G,80O,OOU loan, but this was lost
In tho shulllt' of personal lancor between
tho leaders allied vlth Penrose and Varu.
Select Councilman Charles fieger, one
of the committee appointed to investigate
the city's llnanclal standing and leader
of the Pen roan faction, declared, with Se
lect Councilman Trainer, that the people
should know In advance the true condi
tions of the city's finances before they
were asked to vote on the new loan.
Trainer bald the deficit would be 3,000,
000, which would malre the ta rate well
over 11.30. "I thlnli the taxpayers should
know what the Increase will bo before
they vote for the loan," he said; "then
they could see tie load they are carry
ing." Air. Seger said tho deficit for 1915 was
JS.191,510. The probable deficit this year,
he predicted, would be 93,377.790. while
carrying charges would bo about 1510,000
or 3 per cent, more on the tax rate.
Chairman Joseph K Qaffney, In discuss
ing the various ltenisto be provided for
in the prospective loan, said;
The Sfayor and myself both (eel that
the extra police and fire Item should be
cut out thla year, at least. This would
cut down the loan Item between 1300,000
and 1100,000."
At tld" point James K. f.ennon, a
staunch Vare supporter, declared;
"I had no. Idea that this, committee
would report today. VTe can make no
Intelligent report at this time. There are
no definite figures. This Is all being; done
to make capital,"
This started the fusillade between the
factions, '
"The people should kuow what the tax
rate must be." declared Mr Trainer who
was untU recently with the Vare forces.
This brought HiWut Councilman William
B. Flpley. another strong Vare follower,
to his feet
"For the first time lu 15 years," be
shouted, "the members of the Finance
Committee Uae come out In the open.
There It "boiatJhlng back of Mr Segcr's
anxiety to tell the people "
"It's ner too late to do. right." snapped
Mr See'
Tlwt i trut. ' reuiied, Mr ilntey "but
jt .uu remmbar riw jou unsd to put
w&u.-bmeij: on ihes door ol the committee
Coaiiaotil vn Ft Xir. felnaa Few
LONDON', March 23. Von Illnden
burg's front Is being heavily nonsuited
by the rtusilitns on a gradually widening
front, now reaching neatly 200 miles In
a southeasterly rune from Illga
The German Wnr Otllce this afternoon
reported Russlnn nsyaults lust night In
the region of Jacobstadt and along the
Mltau-Jacobstadt Itailwav. north of
Widey. and in the region of Lakes Nurocz
mid Wlsnleu, south of inlnHlt. (leneral
Kuiopatkln is lolling up heay foices to
the attack against the Herman railwu
position", but the Herman Wiw Office
asserts that the attacks have been re
pulsed.
A further extension of the eastern front
fighting is bringing itito action forces al
most ns Jnrge us those engaged in the
strugglo for Verdun.
OFFICIAL STATKMIINT
The onici.il Russian report says:
A series of actions Is piogiesilug
along the entire front. In the Jtfg.i
hector, near the village of IMakanen
(la miles south of Ulga) nnd south
of Pnlileu Island, our troops fought
with strong enemy outposts.
In the .InkobMadt sector wo cip
tuied, atfer n fight, a village and
wood east of Augusthof (about 5
miles west of Jakobstadtl and alfru
a wood lietweon the forest district of
Dukerneck and tho village of Uel
vluck, in the Huschof region (7 miles
southwest of Jukobstudt).
South of tho Pvinsk region sharp
nitlllery and Infantry fighting con
tinues. Our artillery successfully bom
baided the region north of Ment-
PRESIDENT WILSON
VISITS PHILADELPHIA
TO CONSULT OCULIST
Crowd's Greeting to Nation's
Chief Magistrate Marked by
Respectful Silence Instead
of Customary Cheers
DOCTOR, ACCUSED
OF MURDER, HELD
IN DEATH OF TWO
Son-in-Law of Wealthy
Couple Arrested in
Poison Mystery
HEAVY GUARD HIS ESCORT
OMNIBUS REVENUE MEASURE DECIDED ON
WASHINGTON', March 23. Definite decision to combine alt of tho tariff
nnd revenue proposals now before Congress in a single measure to bo rushed
through the House under forced draft waB reached today by Democratic mem
bers of the Ways and Means Committee
BIG FORTUNE INVOLVED
Continued on Vaxt Four, Column laur
T'renldent Wilson, accompanied by Mrs.
Wilson, arrived In this city shortly before
noon today.
Tho heaviest guard which ever safe
guaidetl a President of the United States
In Philadelphia escorted him from Brond
Street Stntlon to thfi olllces of Dr. G. 13.
de Schwelnlta. the President's oculist." at
4 170J-Walnut strfctrnnd"lateWo-(IMf nonle
or his sister. Mrs. Anno Wilson llowe. at
the Mnldstone Apartments, 1327 Spruce
street. Twenty mounted policemen nnd 20
reserve policemen and detectives In auto-
j mobiles formed n military tordoii about
the President's motorenr.
There was no ihecrlng from the throng
of COO pen-onx In tho tralnshed as the
Chief. Kxccuthe and his wife walked
down the platform fiom the special ti'nlu
of two conches which brought them here
from Washington A fnlnt ripple of np
ptause, a hat rnHcd here and there nmid
u lespectful "Hence that suddenly fell
upon tho ciowd and the Pieslilent anil
Mrs. Wilson wcie engulfed In n mass of
blue, ns tho policemen and detectives
under Captain Mlllt, of the reserves,
formed nn ehcort about them. The Presi
dent carried Mrs. Wilson's lolet silk
lined cloak. She was attired hi a blue tail
ored suit and a black hat trimmed with
blrd-of-paradlsc feathers
Tho party went thinugh the luth street
exit, wheru the President lalsed his hat
several times to the ciowil there. He
helped Mrs. Wilt-on Into a light blue lim
ousine, Tho machine, preceded by a
suuad of mounted policemen and followed
by two other cars filled with detectives,
was whlrlcil down lath street and to
Doctor de SchwelnlU's olllces.
The President remained In tho oculist's
offices with Doctor de Schweinitz and
Dr. Cary T. Oiayson, White House physi
cian, for half nn hour When ho emerged
a crowd of perhaps 200 pcrsoni wns wait
ing. Here the cercinon) of silent rejpect
was lepe.ited. Not a uord was tpokcu
(.axe n. fow low esclninatious- "Tlirii-'s
the President !" Mr Wilson again helped
Mrs. Wlh-on Into tho marhliiu and Hie
Continued on l'a:o Tno, Column Una '
NEGRO BOY PUNISHED FOR REFUSING TO SALUTE'FLAG,
DIOS MOINES, la., March 23. Because ho refused tvvlco to saluto the
American flag, Hubert Eaves, 11-year-old negro boy, today was expelled from
I the public schools of Des Moines and sentenced to nine years In tlio El Dora
j ltcformatory. Tho boy. In refusing to salute, lnformod his teacher that tho
i Stars nnd Stripes waved only for tho white race und that tho negro has no flag.
j TUBANTIA NOT SUNK BY U-BOAT, BERLIN SAYS
I RERUN. March 23. The original denial by tho German Admiralty that
iiiu Liiu.-ii iiuer luuanun was sunn in tno isortn aea ny a u-Doat lias been
supplemented by the following announcement': "Investigation proves 'that the
Tubantla was not torpedoed by a German submarine nor by any other kind,
of ship attached to the Gorman navy. No mines have been sown by tho German
navy in the vicinity of the spot where the Tubantla was destroyed."
Famous Poison Mysteries
Recalled by Peek Case
Carlvle W. Hnrris was convicted
Mn'T)r,nary'fl892r'after a trial of
three weeks, of the murder ot
Helen Potts Harris. a She had died
of morphine poisoning after tak
ing capsules prescribed by him.
Roland Burnhnm Jlolineux was
charged with the murder of Mrs.
Adams. She died on December '2S,
1898, after drinking from a bottle
of bromo seltzer, alleged to have
been sent by Mo' ncux. It con
tained cyanide of mercury. Mo
lineux was convicted at his first
trial, but i second jury acquitted
him. He is now in an insane
asylum.
Albert T. Patrick, a lawyer, was
charged with having chloroformed
and killed William Marsh Uice, an
aged multimillionaire, who was
found dead on September 2.'), 1900.
Pntrick was convicted. Governor
Dix pardoned him in 1912.
Doctor Buchanan died in tho
electric chair on July 2, 1895, for
the murder of his wife, whom he
had poisoned with morphine. He
hud murdered her cold-bloodedly
for her property. Ho was con
victed on April 20, 1893.
OUTPOSTS CLASH ON GREEK FRONTIER
BERLIN, March 23. German troops, newly arrived at the Greek frontier,
made their first capture ot French prisoners In the recent skirmish between
patrols, the Cologne Gazette's Balkan correspondent reported. The two scout
ing parths camo upon eacHother, unexpectedly and immedlatcjjclaglisd. .After
the Infantry fighting artillery exchanged Bhots across the border.
Ni:V YOItK, .March 23. Dr. Arthur
Warren W.iitc, of tho Coliseum Apart
ments, ItUersldo lirlvo and 116th street,
was today nrrested by order ot District
Attorney Sw.inu on the charge of mur
der in the death of Mr. and Mrs, John D.
. RAILROADS WANT COAL RATE CASE REOPENED
WASHINGTON, March 23. The Xew York Central and five other coal
enrrying rnllioads today petitioned the interstate Commerce Commission to
reopen tho anthracite carrying rate case, In so far as It affects Albany, Troy
and Mechanicsvllle, X. Y on coal from the Wyoming and Lehigh districts of
Pennsylvania. Tho Commission leccntly reduced those rates.
W
BRITISH PRIZE COURT CONDEMNS GERMAN LINERS
LONDON, March 23. Tho Hamburg-American liners Prlnz Adalbert and
Kronprlnzessln Cecille have been condemned by the Prize Court and taken over
by the British Government. Both ships were detained by England In British
ports when the war broke out. The Kronprinzesaln Cecille Is a vessel of 19,503
tons and the Prlnz Adalbert Is 6030 tons In size.
BULGARS ARREST U. S. LEGATION OFFICIAL
PARIS, March 23. The Chancellor ot the American Legation at Sofia has
been nrrested by the Bulgarian authorities, according to a dispatch received
hero today. Ho was charged with bribing a police official to issue certain
passpoits. The American Minister has demanded his release.
Conllnufil on I'ukp Tun, Column Tno
MAYOR'S BUTLER NOT SEVEN MORE ARRESTED I BIG RIOT OCCURS WHEN
AN ELEVATOR EXPERT i ' 3N TOBACCO FRAUDS I FIGHT TICKETS ARE SOLD
Citizens' Republican League De
nies II. J. Smith's Quali
fication for New Job
Total of 27 Taken Hero in Al
leged Nation-Wide Rev
enue Violations
A flat denial of statements concerning
(lie record of Herman J- Smith, former
butler to Mayor Smith, who recently was
appointed an elevator Inspector, made ut
the time of the butler's appointment, when
his qualifications for the position were
que&tloned. was issued today- by the Por-ter-Wlnuton
Citizens' Republican League.
The league. In a statement quoted au
thorities for tho assertion that the butler.
Instead of having been employed for four
and a half years In the construction de.
partment of the Otis Elevator Company
of Pittsburgh, was caretaker of boys In
the Northern Home for Friendless Chil
dren, :3d and Brown streets, and that If
he was employed at all by the elevator
"company, it was only for a short time.
The league.'s statement, summarized,
asserts that despite Smith's claim that he
worked four and a half years for the
Otis Company, hsl name cannot be found
on the records of the company for 10
years bach, or on any eleutor concern
In Pittsburgh. Furthermore, the Eleva
tor Construgtgxs' Union, according to the
league, knows of no name ot Herman J,
Seven more arrests were mado today
in tha alleged nation-wide tobacco fraud,
when another raid was made by Gov
ernment officials on clgarmakers. This
brings the total arrests to 27, Including
two for interference with urrests.
Two of the men surrendered. They
ure T. U. (Inngemt. or 80G SoutK 7th
street, and N. Waehafsky, of 738 South
3d street. Charges of violating tho In
ternal revenue laws by refilling empty
cigar boxes and otherwise falling to com
ply with the law were entered against
them, and they were released In $1500
ball.
An automobile was used by United
States Deputy Marshals McCaffrey and
Kenney u rounding up several of tho
prisoners. The men arrested by McCaf.
frey and Kenney are B. Illederman, of
2D0 Monroe street; William Speerman. of
795 South 3d street; Samuel Granofsky,
of $30 Porter street; J. Flnkelstein. of 991
North 2d street, and George Marklnson. of
2137 South 7th street. They will have
hearings this afternoon.
i;. C. Johnson, of Washington, solicitor
of the Internal Revenue Department, an
nounced today that the situation heie does
not appear as serious as in New York,
Twenty Thousand Fans Try to
Purchase 2500 Seats for
Saturday's Mill
Smith on lis oook "' ; where an Investigation beginning Monday
the league says, completely refutes I ,.,, , .,,.. ,,,, , ,. ,
Smith's claim, for the Otis concern has
long agreed to employ none but union
hands.
Brakeman Killed by Train
,A brakeman cn the Baltimore and Ohio
JUIlrodd was mangled when ho jumped
from a freight train at 35th and Wharton
streets thla -afternoon and was ground
to death beneath the wheels of a, tjecood
train The body of the nan. whir-was
S; B. Sheiiender, of 3333 Kensington ay
revealed not only fraud on tha Mrt of
nuny dealers, but collusion by Federal of
ficers The 1 v estimation In this city will
be completed in two more days, he said.
Months were required to gather the evi
dence, lie added.
66 Applicants for Army; 40 Rejected
Twenty-six of the 3S3 recruits eulUttd
In the United States armj lu the Urn
Ave days are from tins city They ware
recruited at the station at l!s Arch
street and at tho Postoitlce. There wera
UUt, ws tKn. to uu FolycUnlc BwjpUa! l H applicants, being relented, Pitts-
34 yronquaced dead.
burgh, bad $9 applicants &wX acceptances.
SKW YOItK, March 2.1. Standing
ankle deep hi the mud and slush, 20,000
frantic men. women and children, battled
before the gato of Jliidison Squarn Uarden
lu a final, mad effrfrt to purchase the
"500 $3 and S3 seats put on sale by the
management at 9:30 o'clock this morning
for the Wlllard-Moran fight Saturday
night.
Hardly had tin word been passed down
the long, quivering line that the tickets
were actually on bale, than riots began
to break out, In spite of the many ar
rests that the burly "bulls" made, specu
lators edged their way Into the four-ply
line close to the ticket window and many
of them succeeded In purchasing the pre
cious pasteboards. So great was the hu
man river that poured Its way from J7th
street to 4th avenue that it was impossi
ble for the comparatively few policemen
to maintain anything remotely resembling
order. Time and again, a "oop'" would
smash. Into the throng with his "billet" in
a rain effort to prevent a band of specu
latora'from pushing into the Hue.
All of the 13. $5, $10 and 115 seats
have been sold. The only ones obtainable
now nr the JO and $25 seats. It was.
oftteially announced today that the re
celpU to date amount to $130,000.
This morultik:. after the cheauar uaiu
Pwere all sold, a big crowd still hung
around the ticket window, hoping against
hope that more tickets would be placed
on sate At noon Tx Rlckard was recog
nized and waii tmiuediataly Importuned
by a host of fans to let tbeiu have lust
a few oior Mat Utckard oirey shook
his head - '
Pig So!a for $520 at Paoli
A pig brought a at a stock sale on j
the Whit Horae Farms ol T. De Witt
Ouyler at I'aoli.
RUSSIAN LOSSES PUT AT 2,542,639
XEW YOrtlC, March 23. Tho losses of the Russians since tha beginning ol
tho war total 2.G42.639, according to Boris Schumacher, wjio arrived from Petro
grad today on the Scandinavian-American liner United States. They are classl
fled as follows: Killed In battle, 387,913; died from wounds, 192,300; died In
hospitals, 271,175; total losses from death, 854,388; missing, 954,813? wounded
733,138.
BRITISH AIRMEN "MURDERED," M, P. CHARGES
LONDON", March 23. In a debate In the House of Commons on the .subject
of aerial activity, Pemberton Billing, former member of the Royal Flying" Service,
who recently was elected to the House on a platform calling for further develop!
ments in the air service, said that owing to defective aeroplanes British aviators
were being "murdered." There was no reason, he bald, why all the Zeppelins,
in Germany should not be blown up within the nest half year, Harold J.
Tennant. Parlimentary Under Secretary for War, replying on behalf of the
Uovernment, said that stiong language was not necessary to awaken the Govern
ment to the Importance of the subject.
J. W. CONVERSE WITH PERSHING IN MEXICO
John W. Converse, wealthy clubman and sportsman of, thU city, is with,
the Pershing expedition "somewhere in Mexico" Jn the role of a military observer,
according to a dispatch from Silver City, N. M. He was attached to the command
of Colonel H. J. Slocum. Thirteenth Cavalry, when the troops entered Mexico, the
report says.
PENN STUDENT FLEES FROM QUARANTINE
John Bacon, a University of Pennsylvania student, is at Ms home at York-.
Pa., today, having fled from this city before a scarlet fever quarantine could hq
placed on his room. Bacon's case was diagnosed yesterday by Dr, Joseph C,
Plrdsall, of 3459 Chestnut street, who notified the Board of Health, Medical In
spectors found Bacon's room in McKean House, Dormitories, empty and he was
traced to Lancaster, where he was arrested. He was taken to his home n
York in an automobile, which later was disinfected.
BERLIN COMPLAINS OF U, S. PASSPORT SYSTEM
LONDON, March ,23. According to the Dally Mail, a writer in the Berliner
Tageblatt complains thapt passports are not being issued to Americans who. wish
to, go to Qertnanyjlthfthey are able to go to England as often as they please,
bqt when they askT for special permission to visit Germany it is refused.
i i
DUTCH PLAN CONVOYS FOR SHIPPING
AMSTERDAM, March 23. The Jarge shipping companies are, eonsiaejriiig
combined steamings under convoy of a powerful tug provided, with 'irirrtet
installation, according to the HandeUsblad. The. possibility Is also ponsited
such convoys being preceded by trawlers to do mine sweeping. ,
ITALY AGAIN PLEDGES NQ SEPARATE PEACE !
ROME, Marci 23. Answering a question. In the Chamber pf DpuUea. cuit
eerntng the pledges made by Italy to her Allies, the Under Secretary ot Btjit fo
Foreign Affaire tald Italy was adhering to the London CouvenUoo conewnbtt
the agreement pf her Allies nt to make, a separate peace. JIc &Mea ft gg
aUo had accepted all other condltJoas agreed upoa W the Entente Fmmm te
eluding the restoration of Bslluai.
i
m
i
