THE WEATH
IT SHINES FOP ALL
Cloudy to-dayt;
to-
Highest temperature wnerdayxlt: lowest. a6.
Oet.tlled weather, mall and nr.iTltin reports on page IS.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 205.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1916. Co,yrloht,M,bv the Sun Printing and PiihlltMngAiitoctallon.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
SWANN ACTS ON
STRANGE DEATH
OF RICH CODPLE
Ajrcil rah From Michigan
Stricken While on Visit
to Daughter Here.
TRACK OF POISON IS
FOUND AT AUTOPSY
Infntniut.fm supplied by friends .met
.T.inH'fis of tlio family of Mr. nrnl Mrs.
.tolin f't-clc of C.rand Rapids, Mich.,
;u Impelled District Attorney Swann to
Investigate the circumstances of the
nth of Mrs. Peck on January 30 anil
I Mr. Peik on March 12 In the apart
".f.it o, ualed by their son-in-law, Dr.
.v '.loir Vtairen Walte, at 435 Riverside
Drive, Hi" Coliseum Apartments. Tlie
reek estate Is valued at morn than
11,000.000.
Percy Fetk, a s-on of the elderly
trjile, who ih now In Urand Rapids, re
ft led a rusterlous telegram, while
ink.ai ,i:r.ui(!i'tiicntH for the funeral of
uj fa'ui-r in nranil Rapids, advising
la.n to have hii autopsy performed on
tie body without fall. Mr. Peel; sum
rr.cni'd the family pastor, the Hev. Or.
A. W Wlshart. and Dr. Fervy Schurz.
Tup post-mortem showed that the con
d.tieii of the bent and lungs did not
m.l.eate death from other than natural
ues, hut an examination of the stotn
i. h made by lr. Victor l'. Vaughn,
i-ati ol the medical department of the
V wrsity of Michigan. disclosed the
ifesrnee of arsenic.
Tins information was piomplly ion
je.l to District Attorney Swarm and
.il Siturday he began an Inquiry Into
r ilrciiirMances of the death of both
Mi fV k and Mrs. peek. (n Monday
,ie lift Or. Wishart and Dr. Schurz
cj.je to this city, but they were not ablu
" supply Judge bin arm with any con-
..derable material.
Inquiry In Hraud llaiild.
Judge .Swann then sent Assistant DIm.
tr t Attorney Mancuso and Dr. Otto II.
f -hultr. pathologist of the District At
. .rney t stalt, tu tirand Rapids to take
ikarife of a second ami mole thorough
autopsy on th body of Mr. Peck. Yes-st-nliy
Judge Swarm recclveil a telegram
froa. Assistant District Attorney Man
km sating;
'Perfect case on present matter. Prof.
Vnuthn reports plenty of arsenic."
The telegram from Mr. Maneueo did
tet materially advance the Investigation,
life It pointed only to the fact tli.it Mr.
I'eok had died from poison and furnished
no ti-cful new clues as to the manner
in hl '!l the poison entered the body.
Juds'c Swann was active previously
r"l fubtoquently to the receipt of this
Mesr.nn. He questioned every person
xtij -v.-f. in the apartment at the time
.Mr Peek died and at the time Mr. PecK
:'i lie sought details from Dr. Will
am H Porter of lit West Flghty-thlrd
rrt :, who attended Mrs. Perk; from the
u-.'lnaker who prepared the body for
Hp-ru-m to 'Jrand Rapid", where It was
ertnutnl from Dr. Albcrtus Adair
M if l.'l Madison avenue, who was
ulM to attend Mr. Peck on the night
' M.i ii 11, a few hours before he
dteij from the undirtskcr who prepared
" Perk's body foi shipment : from
v Kllen Peck, a sister of John II.
IV-k 'rum Dr Arthur Warren Walte,
- Pe hs" son-in-law ; from Dr. Jacob
C '''I of ltailtan. .V. J., whose wife
" s Mud cousin of Mrs. Peck, and
- ! I. W Doxtnter of C67 Maill-
in a college friend of Dr. Walte.
1 distance of tlies- inquiries, sup.
' el in the information reeelved
'n. . 'pV pr vimrt mid Dr.
1 z was that early In January, soon
Dr iind Ml. Walto took the apart
' i a:, Illveislde Drive, Mrs. Peek,
" o -mis r.T jvar"- old, came to visit
' llei tisband, a wholesale, drun
' riraml Uaplds, did not accompany
hi n-lfe
III iinn fer Arrival.
t after her arrival Mr. Peflc
me dl. .inTtrltiK apparently from
"iHi'i tiniilil.. She recovered sutll
v u, Ik taken out In an Invalid's
'In the nicht of January 29
" C to Mrs Lynch, the muse In
rh.s, sin. seemed to be miuh'lmiirovcd
' f"r an mvaslonal attack of nau
1 ii' net dat she became suddenly
or.. mil Dr William If. Porter was
wm net Mrs P.ck died within a few
o'i'w iir wait,, nrnl his wife took
'.'I, .. tii.truli where, after funeral
"rt. e ,i w,im cremated on February 1.
Mr Pern, who was 72 tears of age,
ri l r,. lo visit bli daughter and son
lr.l, n tlie latter part of February.
'H Jl.ir'li he lurnine III, hut Dr.
Ad.nr Moore was not called In
' ' r.,Kht of Jlarrli 11. Dr. Moore
nsil r ttatement to Judge Hwann
Ah. ut a ear pteviously J had trented
" l''k for iMrdlac trouble. When I
Mmne,! ni on the night of March 11,
.,.r, , ,un,, ,na, ,np rarniao trounie
''I ' r. t disappeared and that the
fiit'i. ttas sulferltig from nothing more
'i .pareritly than Intestinal 1Ih
"rr.irirff ,,,i i tvrote out a prescription
"' Uf ih, nn., Tno nPJ;t ,,sy w)Pn
' nnl i ,hr Mr Peck waw dead I was
VHt.y 'tweheil
Tl.t rbriiii lertlflcate records that Mr.
i"k o.f i of cardiac aniemla, with n
t' l: .. iv u rditls and senility as sc.
Miliary i-inrif
fr Jar , i-ornell or Itirltan was pres
Jt in he WrtUe apartment on the night
i ii ii whin Dr. Moore wrote u
"'K-rption that called, uh Dr. Moore
Warmed n. District Attorney, for a
lrvirc re,nf,iy fr intPninal trouble.
J'' rnrnr-il mid Judge Hwann that be
it.iV"' "'n'ntMtratlr.n of the medicine
"f 1'rk appeared to be "all rlKht," but
'" nfer the medicine was ndmlnls-
lK!,nl x,r- ''cck Krnnn. Death
"l s v i.oura later, or about 2 A. M.
1 JUrrh 12,
Mnoie promised Judge .Swann last
"Ml to vuppij. a ro,,y of tn pri.Bcription
""'en en the. night of Match 11.
Kiiilinlinrm Irani .o Arrnlr.
Th presenre of arsenic or traces of
'enlr, as illgeiosed by the uutopsle.i.
..." ,n''' ue to arsenic, having been
'a In the embalming fluid. The body
" frnlMlmed at tho John H. Potter
n4riu'n establishment. Ui Ix4rw
21 -wtf. and Judg Kwiinn learned
'nnitey yesterday that the undertaker
ii, ''nP'""d arsenic In their work.
vwilte accompanied the body to
iw"'1 ,.lt:'Pl'l. whero Mr. Peck's son,
''", 1'eek. declined to have It ere.
tot... Prcy a Vfck ,hen received the
"Mlerloux telegram advising blm to
fostpinsd M XnMt Peg.
CZAR'S ARMIES PIERCE
TEUTON LINES IN N CM? 77
Russians Break Von Hindenburg's Front Between
Dwinsk and Wilna Austrians Reported Evacuating
Csernowitz Germans Gain Near Verdun.
While flghtlnB on n small scale continues In the Verdun district the centre '
of Intcrrst In the war Is shlftlnu to the Itusslan theatre, where stronc nttneks '
i In the lUfrn-DwInsk sector and In Onllila seem to pn-ludo a Renerul offensive. 1
According to the latest ofllclal sttiteincnt from l'etroRrad, the ltunsUns
have made Important advances south of Dwinsk and nlso In the Hlga district.
Heavy llRlitlns Is contlnulnc all alone the line. In the south tho Austrians 1
, have been driven out of the Uwlesko bridgehead In Oallola. and unofficial re-
,,orll, evacuation of Czcrnowltz, capital of the Ilukowlnu, has boRtiu.
In France the Hermans after an nil night bombardment succeeded In gain
In ti foothold on n hill half n mile southwest of Malancourt. Kast of the
Mouse the French positions at Vaux and Douaumont were subjected lo n heavy
I bombardment. i
Tho sinking of the Dutch liner Tulmnlla Is now ascribed to a Herman tor- ,
pedo boat destroyer Instead of o submarine. The Palembang. another Dutch i
vi-twcl, Is said to hnvn been sunk by the same vessel. '
China, it Is announced, will retain its republican form of governm-m in-!
stead of reverting to the monarchical form.
GERMANS BEATEN BACK
SAYS RUSSIAN REPORT
Sptcnil Cable Hnimtr to Tint Stv
Lo.vpo.s-, March 22, A violent battle!
I" in progress in the east between Wllna
and Dwinsk, the Russians having fol-1
lowed up their "feeling out" operations '
of the lust few days with a determined t
drivo against the railway connecting j
these two Important railway tetitre-i of
western ItusaM, of which Wllna is In i
Herman hands, while Dwinsk has It-en '
the coveted but unsuccessfully fought
for goal of Field Marshal von Hinden
burg's army for the last six months.
Petrogr.id to-night announces ofllclally
that the Russians have pierced tho Her
man lines at stveral placeM, driving the
Teutons out of their trenches. Furious
counter attacks have been launched, and
"desperate Infantry lighting Is In
progress," The main objective of the
Russians In this sivtor Is tho vital rail
way Intersecting town of Sventslany. on
the Wllna-Dwlnsk road. Three lines of
Herman trenches were captured on the
Lake Nardpuh front.
Plrrcr Herman Mne.
The new drive against this lailw.iy
is being launched from two directions.
In the north around Tverctch. due south
of Wldsy, which saw so much lighting
last fall, and further south in the
region of Lake Narotch. where the Her
mans yesterday were forced to "with
draw their lines several meters, giving
up a far protruding salient."
To-night's Russian statement shows
that tlie Czar's troops already havo
managed to bend In the Herman front
at several points. If they are able to
push these successes, followed up by
simultaneous attacks on the Riga front
and north of Dwinsk, Von lllndenburg
will be lorced to take his whole northern
line back ami convert the ptesent aic
Into a straight line stretching from
Plnsk in the south to Frledrlchstadt.
The Russian statement also announces
sucewses south of Riga,
Tho statement of the Russian War
Olllce follows
un the whole western flout action.
GALLOPER LIGHTSHIP
IN NORTH SEA IS SUNK
Fii-.-l (MviiiTt'iM-e ol" Kintl in
War 'I'aki'ii as Kviili'iii'c of
New (ii'i'innn I'laii.
s;,i-r,i chle Htupnlch lo Tar. si
I.0M10N. March 22. The S.illoper '
lightship, about thirty mlle-t from the
North Foreland, at the mouth of tlie
Thames, has disappeared, and W be
lieved lo have been toipedneii,
, Lloyd's received a nport to this ef. '
feet yesterday. Dep itches from Hoi
laud say that the officers of the steam-
i ship Amstellaiitl. which arrived at Vnnil
den to-day from Kngland, reported that
they set their course for the Hallopef
light, but found only her mast top above
water.
This Is the llrst lightship sunk In (lie
war. .Notnilig nas oeeo neaiu m m- i
crew, which was notmally from seven to i
ten men, Tim sinking is assumed here
I to lie a siep III tierio.tiij n iv-wi
1 measures to prevent nil sea romtnunlca
' lion between the Hrltlsh Isles and the
Continent.
Albert llalllri. ihaiiman of the llitm-hiirg-Ameilran
Line, Is trcdlted with
telling Dutch shipping men that this Is
Germany's Intention.
WOMEN PROVIDE FOR ARMY.
Lloyd firore AcUiuMVleilge In
creese In Monitions Ontpnt.
Special Cable Despatch to The sc.n.
IoNtoN. March 22, David Lloyd
Oeorge, Minister of .Munitions, speaking
In the House ct Commons to-day tald
that thousands of women are now at(
work In the munitions piams, replacing
men In the army
Their participation In this labor, he
said, has resulted In an enormous In
crease In the output
BOY, 18, WEDS WIDOW. 59.
Ill Mollier FnlU in Trrvenl Cere
mony TakliiK I'liice.
Nfw IIIIUNBWICK, N. J March 23,
Despite the efforts of his mother to stop
the ceremony, Fred De Hart. 13 years
old. was married to-day to Mrs. Marie
.Miller, a widow 59 years old.
De Hart's mother, who lives at Mill
town, (tot word yesterday that a mar
riage was planned. As the pair were
about to bo united the mother of the
bridegroom burst Into the Miller home
and forbade tho ceremony. The min
ister thn Hev. Clarence Parrlsh, hesi
tated and Mrs. Dc Hart told him
to wait. Hhe then went to tho police
and usked that the wedding bo stopped,
but they said they wcru unable to help
her, Tlw clergyman, who had ac
companied her to police headquarters,
then leturned and performed the cere-
mThe mollier said tho boy had no ineaiiB
of support, but the bride said that she
would look out for th.it.
OBBAT UUA BPMMa WATSB.
He. th cm tt oU glue stoppered k-sttlea.
are progressing. In the Riga region,
near Pl.ikatien, and south of the Daeln
Island, we fought large outpjnti. In
the Jarobst.idt sector we captured a .
village and wood east of Augut!nhof. 1
ulso a wood between the forest and thn
district of Duketneek and the village
of Delvlteck. In th" Rusthop region.
South of Ditliik there was Infantry
and artillery action We suci-essfully 1
bombarded th ivMon ninth of Mint
zlnny, where we observed th concen
tration of tioops, After silencing tho
batteries of the enemy in the Mech
kee region we captured trenches near
the ector Mintzinny-Tlret-l.ake .ekly.
An enemy offensive south of Tveretch
was repulsed. In the Vlkita-.MoJelka
region, north of postavj, desperate ,
Infantry lighting l.s In progress. There I
were violent enemy counter attacks,
At various joints un dislodged the
enemy from hi trenches, capturing
liHitblne guns. In the Tchenilnty-Iaitia
region, north of Uike Miadnol. after
vigorous artllleiy bombardment, the 1
enemy attacked our liosltions but was
repulsed.
On tlie Miuthwrstoin shoie of Lake
Nurocx the lighting i developing In
our favor Nothwlthstniidliig the
asphyxiating cans mid the imirdrtous
lite of the Hermans we forcejl three
Hum of wite entanglements and up
turn! In a ileice attack three llnm of ,
trtnehes. Counter attacks were stopped
by our lire and ash xlatlng and
poisonous gai. projectlbs.
So far we Imve captured seventeen
olllcerw and I.odh soldiers, iu well as
twelve machine gun, some i.earcii
lights and trench mortars,
In Hallcia, at Mlkhaltche, we cap
tured two guns, six trench mortar.,
rifles, bombs, munitions mid Imi pris
oners. fieriniiii. Viloili Ultlnlriinnl.
Ilerlln Insists that the only gain made
by the Russians in tlie new offensive
was that In the Lake .Varotch region,
where the Hermans gave up a "far pro
trudltig salient." withdrawing their
uuliiiiirif ox Tliiril Pmji
3,000 HOMELESS IN
BIG NASHVILLE FIRE
I. Hill Pupils !nn.v V.vnw
Loss May lit- Ni..-,(!(.oil(
Troops on (iuiinl.
Nasiiui.i.k, Tenn. Mar, n s A
thousand hniisei., I.OHU of thetii sub
stantlal lesldenres, imriied la Fast Nn-h-vlllo
to-d.i). w'th a Ins, ,siinate, nt
fmrn tl.Mio.hini -o J2,r.iMi,miii. uf t,0
fifteen thousand resldenis of the soiitli
Til tectum -possibly :1,ij.ii .,. hniueless,
although mo . of them are well to do.
The high wind scattered tire brands
to a dozen pl.nes, which burned slniiil.
tanenusly. and the n,,. denartmeiit was
unable to .upc ., r ,,1MV ,u,,r
nies Flames iirt dlscnti-red
Miortly iieloi,. , , ,! ,,. ,,. , ,
nearly run Its course bv oVlock
As the names appt.i.ulieil W.iner
School, which held ). too pupil., t
leporteil, but nut verlil.,1, that the prlti-1
(ip.ll became panlcsti leken and a po
ll email had to force him with a pistol
to sound thn lire drill call. The pupils
left In order, anil the building wa soon'
In ruin The Home tor the Aged. con. I
ducted by (he Little Sister of the poor, I
was destroyed, with a loss. i
The Inmates were removed to the new'
home of tlie Knights of Columbus. i
Four churches were destroy, d. Com-1
menial, fraternal and charitable organi
zations at once arranged to care for the
hiir.'Iess, and are using churches, pub
lic halls, hotels and private residences.
State mllltla Is guarding household cf.
fects plied In the strretH lo prevent lout-,
Ing. j
At'OUHTA, (ii, March 22. Fire caused,
damage estimated at nunc than 2,u0a,
00" In the downtown section of Augusta
to-night and threatened the principal
business houses In Hro.ul street Ten'
blocks were destroyed.
Tin Dyer Rank llulldlng was destroyed
and tho Fnloii Rank llulldlng, the Wesf.
ern Union Uulldlng and the. buildings
housing the Augusta (Uironlrlr and the
Augusta llrrnlil were among those dam
aged. SYDNEY AT HAVANA.
Iliiiilrn's Destroyer Slop h .Wysterri
May tin tit Tmiiplco,
Speriol t'otite lienpnUh lo Tim So
Havana, March 22. The Australian
cruiser Kdny, which destro.ted the
Herman commerce raider llmdcn, en
tered the harbor to-day. Visitor were
not permllted on the vessel.
Tho warship did not take, on coal or
other supplies. Her entrance is Inex
plicable unless she Is hern in recclvo
Instructions, not trusting to her wire
less, Hlie Is the find warship to enter
the harbor slnco the llfltish cruiser Rnr-
wick went out on August 4, 1911, l
The warship may be going to Tarn
plro to protect the oil Molds which aro
reported threatened by Villa, ("apt.
Hlossop rauie on shore and visited Hie
Hrltlsh Minister, who was uncommu
nicative concerning the Interview. Tho
cruiser will Mil before the expiration
of the twenty-four hour period permit
ted by International law.
'SEEK ENO WITNESS
1 IN FRENCH TRENCHES'
liiiw.vors Moot To-tiny in 1'nrisj Wants Swhiiii to Take t'p In
to Clan Sociirins: His sinnntioiis About Sul
Tt'stimony. way Contracts.
MAY COMi: TO AMKHICA"
Was Valet of Man Who I.rft
I'stato Valni'il at 815,
000,0011. wi.il fohlf Hupntr, lo Tnr. Sis
Paris. March 22. William Nelson
Cromwell arrived to-day from Switzer
land to attend a meeting of lawyers In
terested In the i:no will case, which will
be held to-morrow morning at the Amer
ican Consulate
One Important witness In the case now
In France Is a soldier named Rldaut. who
tas Amos F lino's valet nt the time of
his death, lie Is now on th.. firing line
and In constant danger of being killed.
Two cotuse may be pursued to get
Ultima's testimony. Permission may be
demanded for him to come to Paris and
testify befor. Consul Thack iri or to go
to the Fnlted State and testify before a
court thete.
The latter 'i ..utri,ti,b,., ....... I .. ....
IllllSf tit til., t .....i.. . .. , . . .I
. . .... .... , ,M tfMii i,.,r-iiiiiir in
the Minister of Foreign Amirs to ask I
the .Ministry of, War to grant th permis
sion. Thl would In- dlllleult of artang.- 1
Went, as the ran doe not Involve pub-
lie Interest except as legirds Colum
bia Fnlversliy. Illlauf, evidence, how
ever, would be connected with the second
will, while Columbia supports the first.
The guier.il wish among the lawyers Is i
that his evidence be Kit en in Paris at
ine rallies moment MiselbI.
Amos F ;o. one of Now Voiks
largest realty owners, died October 21.
li'l.'i. le.it Ing :it estate or some Ii:,..
iMHi.dflii. Tlie will tiled for probate was
executed in June of l?ir, and lert Ihe
residuary estate of JS.oaouou to Colum
bia Fnlversliy
This will tins contested b the relr.
L.nly Alan Johnstone of Um'don. Hlfford
and Amos R. i:. pinohot. William P
Kno, and others on the gioutnl thut un
due Inlluence had been exerted on Mr.
Kno and that lie was mentally incapa
ble. They pioilucei a will made in UHI
leaving the residuary estate to them and
nothing to Columbia. It i-
of t'i!s will that Rlil.iufs testimony Is 1
sought. It H belleted be will testify'
Unit h.s furmet emplojer had lost much1
of his mental iwer. William N Ison
Cromwell represents Mr lino's sister ami
two nieces.
The testimony of .Mr. lino's former
valet, now tut tied soldier. Is being
sought of authority granted by the Sur
rogate's Court to Mr Cromwell, former
District Attoniiy Charles ,. p.rklns.
now counsel for Henry Lane Kno. a
nephew of the il, cedent, and counsel for
others of in,. ten hells.
John McU-uii Nash, nttornev fnr cn.
Iiimbla. atti inpted re.rntly to hate the
trial of the contest turoted from the
Surrogates to th,. Supreme Court.
FALL OF ISPAHAN CONFIRMED.
IVlnmrml s, Inhdl.H, M.
iiioieil llir It lls.liin..
swemr ar,, l,,,,t,'l. m Till- t .
P::ti:ooi:ap, t-:.i laMidon, Muv
The Rti.s-.au W,,, i iT1,v ,,,,,, t.m"Bllt
continued .teste d.,- iiiiorfici.il teit
of the iv, upatlon of Isp-ihan. the
ancient cit.t nml funner i etropolls of
Persia, an iinirtant lndiittial litre
with ,i population of about Itin.ouii.
Ispahan Ins 21" miles south or Telieian,
the i lot eminent st.u.
The oiTiiial unnouin u .nt -.its ih,.
I'iii'. runes were enthusiastically u
leitnl by the population. It Is a
stated tl.at the Persian Hoteinni.tien
era!, who had lied, niuined after the
RusslatiM had occupied the ,it. .Mys
tery attache- to tin- present w In i ealmuts
of tlie Shall ,,f Persia, who lied from
Tehetnn and was reported nt Ispahan
The War nfHie statement say:
At l-paliaii. the population, ex
hausted li looting on tile i.i i-t of the
Hermans and mercenaries, welcomed
us enthusiastically. The Persian Hnv- ,
enior-Heiieral arid the authoiitli s, who
had pietlousl.t Mid, returned to the
clt.i
sots Turks llitrneil I Itus anil tins.
Aiicreil I ii lui III Id ii Is.
RoAic. .Man:) 22. The city of Sivas, ,
about 22,1 in IW h west ol Ili7eiuiii, hns I
been burned by the Ttnks, who ate re.!
Heating befoie the Russian armies, nr.
cording to a despatch to the fmrinr
it'UaWt.
Th" despitch states that ,10,0nn Ar-!
tneiilan and (Jreek luliabttants of the j
town uiie tnassaind or driven away..
Tlie same destruction, the paper says,
has taken place In IVsarla ' 1
ADMITS TIGRIS BLUNDERS.
rhlliohrrlnlo ('nils Shortage n I
Medical Supplies IneiciisHble.
special Calile Detpalel, to Tin: Sc.v
IrfiNPoy, March 22 Austen Chamber-'
lain, .Secretary of State for India, speak
Ing In the House of Common to-day
on behalf of the Indian Hovernment, ad
mitted a lsmentablo breakdown In tho I
hospital arrangements arid an Ineveus-'
able shortage of medical supplies n
the Mesost.imla campaign.
Mr. ChamlxMialu deprecated discus. 1
sion of these matters while the carn-1
palgn was proceeding. He declined that '
the advance, against H.igdad was not)
ordered In dellance of military opinion. ;
The Government, he said, w.i not satis-1
lied with the state of things, Imi this
was being Iniptoted, Mr, Chamberlain
promised a full Inquiry to establish the
responsibility for deficiencies.
GEN. CAD0RNA IN LONDON.
Italian Chief of Stuff in lie He
relied ti- liliiur lieorgr,
special Vable Hetptitch to Tin: Six
UiNl"iN, March 22. Hen. Count
Cadoina, Chief of HtatT or the Italian
army, arrived In London to-day front
Farls. Field Marshal Marl Kitchener,
members of the llrltlsh licadquarleis
staff and the Italian Ambassador met
him. A large crowd of lliigllsh and
Italian hop1i cheered 111 in at Ihe station.
Count Cadoina will be ie elied by
King Hemge, He will intend Hie mill
tary confiieiice of the Allies In Paris,
Premier Halaudra and Foreign Minis
ter Konulno of Italy ure expected in
rails on Monday ntxi. They will r
main . week.
PRENDER6AST ASKS
BRIBE TALE ACTION
t)i:ri:MS (JAY.VOIfS NAMK
Hot Sliot for Tlioiiii.s(n, and j
I'apoi's. He S'ays, Aro In- i
spircil by Senator, i
Comptroller William A, Prendergast
sunt a letter to District Attorney Hwann
jesterday calling on him to Investigate
charge. that certain public officials had
been bribed in connection with the sign
ing of the dual system contracts. He says
that these rharges, which appeared In
a newspaper, would not have been made
unless the editors had proof of them
and he asks that In Justice to the city
ofllclal. i oiieerned the newspaper be
required to prisluce that proof
Incidentally the Comptroller takes
so.-re side liots at Senator Oeorge F.
Thompson Ills letter In part follows:
"It lias been stated on numerous oc
casions in tho public press that you
have ben kn-pitig yourself Informed re-
garding the proieedlngs of the lglela-j
live Investigating committee, of which'
Senator Thompson Is the chairman. It j
1 llirrerore to be assumed that you are
not oblivious to the prlnrlpal pInt
whe h th" committee has bien making
an eiTort to develop. It I evident that
the ' omaitteo Is aiming to establish
tl.at th.- approval of the contracts with i
the Inteiborough Rapid Transit Com-
... ....I ,t.. V M....I.I- . I tlll '
,,,. .-e l l, K ..1 u,,tsi'.tl Jlllll-
way Corporation, known as the dual
subway contracts, was brought aliout
bv corrmil loethodM nml Hint eeptfitu
meninvr 'f the Hoard of llstlmate re-1
celled money for their votes. As one'
of tho-e who were In of lice st tlie time,
thee lontraot were ratlfbd, and who
voted for them, I am stating th case;
baldly, as I Intend to have the Issue on
this question clearly drawn to the atten
tion of the public.
n I'nprr Must llnve Proofs.
"t'nder ordinary' circumstances It
would be legarded as advisable to await
the outcome of the cuomlttee's work,
If It weie not for two finis: til that
the cotnmittis. after six weeks ha not ,
predated a single fact In support of the!
case its leaders are attempting to con-1
struit. ami (2 that the Krrnlnjrl
Joiirinil has at different times made such
definite stat incuts charging public off I-
rials with brllsTy that It would ap-J
pear that this paper must either have)
some authentic Information at Its dl-,
pusal or that the statements made con
stitute a scandalous n Isuse of news-j
n.,l,er tirit-ll.-ue.
"Mac 1 now direct oui attention to'
the following concrete charge mule by j
the 't'otliio Journal In an editoil.il of!
Marcl Il'ltl-
"'nte rihe street mi trust) not onlj
tlsik tile Stleets belonging to the peo
pe nml then ihe public rush for con
struction, but they a. so lojk out of the
public pockets the money with which
tin t Imbed public oft .rials and other.
"It .s n-ally a complete sstem in
winch the public not only supplies
the streets, the passengers, the fran
chises and t'le money to exploit tlie
franchises, but also the rnlbes to buy
tlie public oitK la's. 1
"Tin re is nothing ainbigii iu- about I
the furego.ng quotation. Il i a ditert
tharge li Is inconceivable tint any I
paper would make such ,i ehaige unless.
It had In its p'o-i --ion the lequliid
et-alcnie to sustrun it Assum.ng that!
sue i etlilellie e,sts and 111 the lib- i
seme of It tic i It.ll ge made lij tills
paper s ui'iiisttous nil such tvldence
-liniild be pl.ienl before the Cr.-iinl Jury
nt once that th" ends of public justice
mat nut be il'laveil by the Ineffective
methods tent employed b the Thompson
Kill 111 1 1 1 e.
Vlnsl Mibaliinllnte Cliarurs,
'it stems to me that n i your duty
to cal. ibis mutter to I'le attention of
the lir.inil Jury and lnist that those
who have liiuile this charge be rntnveHed
to substantiate It befoie that body, so
th.it If a iiise be made tlie Hrntid .lurv
will be In a position lo 11 in I Indictments,
If the ch.iiKe made by till newspaper
,s true then indictments should be found.
If It Is untrue, this newspaper should
be thoroughly exposed as a fabricator
or iiiifntinileil and il.iM.ucliy attacks
upon publU men.
"The New York A tun lean veftcrdiiy
morning leproduced a cartoon published
in January. 1!'12 The use of this car
toon is unquestionably to emphasize the
charge already refined to and made
by the evening edition of that paper
Due of the men attacked Is deitd. His
reconl 1 a bei n made the target of the
most until udy Insinuations by the
Thoinp-ou conimltlio and the news
papets referred to. In the V.vrnlnn
Journal of February 22, IfiltS, n clurge
or bilbery was made as rollows-
"Tin Thompson legislative commit
tee to-day is in possession of Informn
lion that the U'.OOo.moij Interlsirough
'yellow dog" fund was split up among
lite prominent tlnaneiers and a city
otlbial who is now dead. The fund
was provided to reward certain men
for their work tu sicurlng the dual
subway contract with the city of New
York In 1S111.
".s'enator Thompson told of discov
ering the Inlorniatlou about the six
nirn who shared thn 'yellow dog' fund,
but said that hi could reveal nothing
rl.-c until In- had more facts at his
command, He said the city ofllclal was
In position to swing the ooimacts al
most single handed,"
Puts HImiiic mi Thompson,
"(if the urihinl who were icpoiishe
for the subway contracts Mayor Haynor
Is the only one who Is now dead, Time-Ton-
the .'itiiIii; Joiii-ikiI statement could
only lefer to blm. I may rail your at
tention to the fact that this was not an
editorial, but a news story. II appears
from tlie stnti mi ni quoted thai the
cliatge hud It soiuce in the person of
the chairman of the committee, whose
Insinuations coucei uliig this phase of the
Investigation aro constantly In advance
of finis which In pnmilses but never
produces, or in direct dellance of facts
known and established, lie has a heady
had a mouth ill nhlcli to use the m.
nietise potter of his coinmltiee to prove
Hits point, but has fallul to do so
"Such method, used to defame the
memory of Mayoi Hit) nor, call not only
for public leprobatloii, but in Ihe Inter
ests of oidlnary decency the rnauhlneiy
Continued on Lait Pogt,
2,000 CARRANZA TROOPS
JOIN VILLA, TO WAR ON U. S.
3,000 MORE MAY FOLLOW
i r
THREE GARRISONS
REPORTS FROM BORDER
rpHESK developments in the Mexican crisis were known Inst nitrht:
Two thousand Cnrrnnzu troops have revolted and have roiic over
to Villn to fight the Amcricuns. At lenst three thousand more me
reported to have tnken the same steps.
The War Department has received a repoit from Gun. Funston
and Gen. Bell that Gen. Hcrrera, deposed Governor of Chihuahua, has
revolted, declared war on the United States and has joined Villa.
The El Phro authorities have heard that the Junror. garrison com
mander told friends in Kl Paso to-night that the Mayor of .luarez was
attempting to get the garrison to revolt and that it might go over to
Villa at any minute.
The Carrunzu garrison south of Douglas, Ariz., at Agua Priuta, i.s
reported to have revolted to-night.
Another report from authentic .sources, though not confirmed, is
that Col. Cnno with 1,(100 men at Numiiuipa, who was supposed to
have defeated Villa, really joined him to attack the Americans.
Washington had a rumor, unconfirmed, that Ambassador Desig
nate Arredondo has been told by his Government to prepare to leave
Wushington.
Gen. Pershing's latest report declnres that no trace I1113 been found
of the missing aviator, Lieut. Gorrell.
Word came from El Paso thnt after repoits went out that the
Cntiatiza garrison in Juarez intended to join Villa, Gen. Hell put on
a strict censorship.
COL. CANO JOINS VILLA
IN WAR ON AMERICANS
Mexican Leader, Supposed to Have Defeated Bandits,
Joins Them Instead With Force of
About One Thousand Men.
IX Piso. Ti-. . March 22. Not only
has (Jen. Luis. Herrer.i anil 2,o00 Car- I
runza troops Rone over to Villa, but. j
Col. C.ino, in charge of the troops at
Namh.ulp.i, reported having do-
feated the Inuullts, likewise has Joined
the outlawed chief. Col. Cano is re-
ported to havo u force of alsjut 1 .000 .
well equipped men. .
Fighting I believed lo bale I n in j
progress between American troops and
the Villa command at Intervals to-day. I
Whether this had been a running light or
a series of brushes with advanced out- 1
-posts of the Pershing coltimr the In
definite advices received to-night via Cu-,
sas Hraiides do not make dear
If Intervention is decidul en .inn) '
olllcers say tin llrt net of Cnited State ,
troops will Ii' m-.c the railtoad into,
Mexico
Luis Iletteia is a toi met P.iiinl innnt.
an Aineilcaii hatr. and he and Ills
biothet. .Maii'JVio Il.lina. i.HU" Into,
promlneiire during the Mexican ittolu
tlnii of ll'l'i as Cnlomli- under Fi aiicico 1
Madi ro. Latir botli siiveil iinder Villa
as Hernials, but after Madotlo's owni
tiooi.s dad killed him b .iciilent In 1
tattle neat Neiito l.aieilo, Luis Jollied the
Cnrr.iiuisia and ! lined le.'alnet Vll'.i I
For a time a I" n-"ti ! war thn atcind ,
letitceii Villa and llerr. r.i. the lattet
t'm-atii.ii.g t" note his entire arin
igalt.st ll.iiei.i io (rush bull
I let rein ouimaniled tin- state ol Chi
huahua for C.ituitua foi seteial moiitb ,
past, but was leientlf lelietnl bv Hen.
l.llls Hlltletiei and called to (it taio. '
where he ha bull lor seteial wietf.
It was geneially known on the border
that lleireta has nturneil noitli
The lleiiera btotliers Issued null- ,
Ameiican piiiilamatloiis In 1011 when
the American troop and sail. us took
Vera Fun and called on all .Mexican lo
Join them to "n pel tlie f Inn land- ,
giabbets and slave diliel " It has bsen
feared that II ta, b"lng i lose to C.ir-
ranza, would persuade the I'll st duet to
leseiit the appearand' "t Aim than Hoops
on Mexican soil.
Haling failed, he has etiilelitlt de
rided to take the mattei Into his own.
hands and deiiaie war mi his own ac
count, The iiitialning membci of the Signal
Con stationed at Fort Hllss weie or-,
dered to-night to proceid to-morrow Into
Mexico to Join the Pet shing column
They will take four wlte rrl and nil
tlnir stock about llft horn's and
their tcntage. Ten nun and a Lleuten-i
ant will be left at Foil Rlls In charge
of the wireless- station tlnic
Ilmpty cars left here to-night for Foiti
1). A. Russell, W.tomlllg, to bring the
Twenty-ninth Infantr.t to tin border.
This Is the only war strength regiment
111 the Fn ted Stales at pteseut, all,
companies being tecrulted to 1.V1 men.
The regiment Is ((imposed of negroes'
and Is tlie one that elmt up tlie town of
Hiow iisville several earr. ago and re-1
suited in the temporary abandonment of
Fort Uiown and the trial by court
martial or Col. Charles W. Penrose, the ,
regimental commander
Active preparations- ontiuiie to be made
here ror sending troop Into western Chi- 1
liuahtlit through J ll.ll i'Z and (iter tlie
Mixleo Noilhttestern Railroad. Al
though consent has not been given ei by
Carratua for use of the line southwest of
.Itiaie, Culled Slates army ofTbsrs are
showing unusual activity In prcpanngi
for such a movement,
I'onduotors, engineer., firemen, Inalie
nii n and other trainmen are be'ug listed. '
so that only Americans will be einplmul
All of the equipment III 111 Paso, in. hill
ing the locouiiitlies in tlie town rallioad
arils, ha I n careull n -pec .1
and listed and the army Is now said to
know exactly how many trains can In
moved and where the crews for the
trains can be called night or d.i.t ;
The qiiinlennasier's corps Is especially ,
active and Is making plans I'm estab
lishing a base In HI Paso larger than :
that now at Columbus
lliillroad Men till.
Tlie local railroad men ale cooperating
with the army In getting equipment and I
locomotives, and il Is said that cicrt-l
thing will Imi remit- to mote within ,
twenty-four hours. One officer declaieil I
that the activities not only were prcpara- ,
lions lo send supplies In the column now j
In the Held over the Mexican Ninth.
western Railroad but also that Hoops
would -be sent through this port,
Hen. Rell, military commander of thn
El Paso patrol dlttrlct, hud u confer
IN REVOLT,
ence to-mgiit it it a .Mi : n ' oiisul
d.ircl.l, but lieitlur would make a state
ment However, It 's belleted that they
dlscus.-cd the shipping of supplies by the
Mexican Northwestern to th" Pershing
column. After the conference Con 111
(i.ircl i deflated :
"I know of tin .iirangeiuent by which
sutipllee. arc to b- slnpped to tile Allien
can troop out of June."
It is said that tin- Iieparttnent at
Washington has put the matter up to
Cairatiza at (Jueretaro and that Hen.
Hell conferred with the Con-ul with a
view of getting hurried action. Th"
Consul went to Juarez after the. ion
ference and was at the telegraph olT.ce
for some time.
It was said bt railroad official, that
while the rallroid Is a common carrier
It could not aciept freight for the
Ameue.in anny If oiTM.ils of Juarez
should object, as It K amenable r.i the
.aw of the iiillng authorlt.e.s in Mexico.
The hope that Vllia may be di feated 1
and captured ur killed, whi, ii aro-e out
of the .ep.otnl battle nt .S.tmiqUip I o'i
Moliiluy. was il;s,iuut, ,1 to-diy ttlun
wire commurili atlon was ie.stor.il smith
of Juate. and il did imi being .m new
of Impoitiince to Carratiza oirienils illa
tive to the bntle
The wire had not been , m a sup
posed The .Mexican operator for tne
Mexican Not tint .stern Railway bad
merely left ,js key op, n and gone off
some plate, aoiiiiling to Hi,, railroad
otlliial- TI arrana otTnial got all
their Infoi iiiatloti from Casus Hrandcs.
over the wire
111 Paso, since, ihe ai.noutn eiueiit of
tlie bntle at Nauuipiipa, has been ,,,
the alert to ,earn whether or not the
Ameilc.in ironps foiming the .oluinn
under ('ol. I i.mI.I tt,re .ui,t where n ar
.Nallllqtllp.i when ihe i ng.igi uient is sup.
Iio-e.l in hate o curled, ami If he w i
n.-ir what pall the Col.iinl and hi-'
loiumaiiil may hate had in the combat.
If there hate been .mj ,, idopineiits
of an adverse iliaracier .ualnsi Up.
I'.maiiastas, tlial f.n t has no', been
periiiitn d to teach the Amcrlc.ui side
If lliete had b, i n a battle n Is atgued,
it would hue been heralded by the
Ciiusiil and it woiibi hive hotted .i ie,.
oils problem. It is known thai by now
the Atni rlcau troops ,ue soniewheie near
the s, , . ,,r the lepoiteil battle, for it
has lelll solne i,l)s slnie til lll'l.li
of Col I i.i.l.l left i'.is.is iininiles ror
the ( I li li'.i lii i Vallej .
That (leu I'li-hlng anil souie of Infoi,.-
are i lo-e upon Villa i- conslileied
certain The bun led llep.ll tine or tlie
aeriipl.iiii s ileail.v nidi, ales that ih"
tttne lias come when the alrhlp will
plat an luip.ii t.ipi p.ui
Altn olllcers agiee that Villa will nut '
leate the country wheie lie is mm.
"He iievei . .ii ri. - Willi linn so inn, h
as a d.i s -1 1 1 ' 1 1 1 ,,' luoil. .mil ilepeml
entlrel.i upon foiats," said an aiin.t oill
cei. "To go up oito the 'Mountain- tor
any time would mean Man atlon, so
am i mill. L nt that lie uil: opei.ite .,l.,n--the
rein'e valle.ts .iiouii.l Naiiuiii. i,
liaihiiitl ami as f.n west Rilucna.
"I hate never speculated upon what
olllpbxlon the netoplalies woil.d give ,o
the puisult If nn.tihlng. It would tend
lo bl eak the Vtlllst.is up into s.u.ill
groups to atonl iletistlon I i.m con.
cite that Hie flight nt the aiislM would,
hate ,i giiater iuoi.il elt upon the
Villlstas than that lli" cinilil In them- I
sclies Impose imv phtsicil -iiiiiiiiu-"
Time Mexicans with Maxim sileiuer
on Ihelr nibs p.,., -cwr.il hol- till-inoinliiL-.it
lien HoweH, ,i m iv.it.- itatih.
nl.in stationed at one 1. 1 the piiii, Ipal
sqllali-. he ripol'le.l ;o ,e police Holt.
il said lie Ileal'. I the ulin uf ie hnllcls
as tbet tiu.it iii . r lo i bin In nil no,
discharges irom tin rill.-
MONEY MARKET IN PANIC
s ulisl 1 1 n Inn nf Xoli-s M Me, leu
send Pesos llott n,
rii table Htiitr, t rnl , v
.Mi xiiii I'm . .M.ndi :'." I'.u i.
tilgneil III tin in. n,ct market to-, I n
itlieii an ..III, ml .innoiincem. nt tt,t
in i.l. of the witlidi.ntal ol' tlie picseut
ciirieni'.i and the siiloi.tiition of ic 'v
A 'l.i'li.'lll II .lib' note I'e-os cloNcd I'
two and onctenili cents A hum iijan
moilev It was the I.om.-I 1 1 1 .' 1 1 1 - : tel.
with the piospect ill a fn i tin-1 ill ip to.
nun low.
Pliers si.nril and llic -pecill llnl's
prollleil n. Die alai'in whieli seems .In
lo the ptetalent lieliel' tll.lt 111.' pie
pesiM it III lie deflated aluio-l w t til-
lis
The aiiUioi un s 1 1 a - t ;ul. 1 1 lo !
lake steps to pint hie i he j r t i 1 1 1 cn. u
and fiijoles, wlmii ain ten Ingii at
pleseut lien liailra I liegl a phe 1 .i
liist Chief faiT.inza t .-il.iv tint I ...
Cosns of the Co'iistitutioii.i.ists is on
Villa' heels and Xiicl tu light him i
muliuiitailly, I
l
((iv. ilcri'ci'ii of Cliiliiiiiliiiii
to I'i-lil With ltiuiilit
jrainxl Ainciicnns. .
ITXSTOX COXr'lll.MS
XKWS TO WASHINGTON
.liiiiic. (iaiTison l liV
pnilcil to Have (lone
Over to Villa.
AIJUKDOXDO SAID To
V. IIKADV TO Id'.AVK
Oil. Cairn Too a llt'licl 0.
iiimi Vtiluut iM'i's I'l'iit'd
in Senalc.
V is iiM.TOv Matili 2- -I llii;ll
coiitlriii nlon was teciived at the Wjr
licpaltnient to-night of the defection
of tiov. llefiera of Chihuahua with
I. tjoii tioops t" tin- cause ol (Sen. Villa.
It came in despatches tcccivcd from
tleii. Funston and (Sen. Hell.
Tho nous ciii-ril grave niiprchctis'aiu
ii oflltinl circles. Fenr Is expressed
that the action of llerrcra, who was
formerly on Villa's staff of (Semrul,
tnav b" followed by defection on th
part of other Villi .sympathizers.
Following a conference with Cm
President at the White II. rise to-nipht
Secretary of War Faker continued the
reports that came from th" border that
Hrrri'l.i had ileserted Car ran to titk't
tii coiiinion cause with Villa.
Sccri'tarv linker stated that in .1
despatch lercived at the I'epartmen:
tonight (Sen. Funston denied a border
repot t that twenty-seven nrmy truck,
with their drivers missing, had been
found miles olT the l.no. of march in
Me.xi. o. Secretary Raker declined to
discuss tin. o'jjeci of the night's coti
fciencc with President Wilson.
More Troops lo He It emit.
The Sisictiiry stated that no fill
ther ti,,.., tnnvi'iiients me in contem
plation at ple-ent. Prior to Secre
tary liaki'i's statement army otfireis
II. lii expressed eomi'l'li over th" situ
at. on llkelj to ilevelop ns a tcstil: oj
lleiieia's isi,iu,i nt' Villa's cms.,
and iheie wi.' intljiititions that
pioinpt steps would now have tu h
token to pioiis t den. Pcr-hlng's line
of coiiimiiiil' atlon.
It U iig.ir.leil us proliable thai nr
il'is niat -,,,, lf, s. lied directing
tioop- stotiiuinl at diu'eient siitits
tiii'.nigli.i.n tin uutry to hold them-
silvi- . 't iiadiiuss fur ., inovciiidiii
low II, tlie U. nlef
At the pii siilt i, me tneii' ,'ii-c iivalhi
M". ev 'iisivi of Held tiftillcr.v and en
giliici's, ju-t .-..)u:, troois of the inobiln
foiie of the I'nltiil States anny in
this iniintty that .lie not now on thn
border
'I'lii'v .no tii" Si'imtil Cavalry, at
Foil lltliin .Ml ii. Vcttnoiit. the Th. id
Infaniit ,ii .M.nli-nn Uin.u ks, W.itct.
town, N V.. and l'ott i tularin, near
i'.swiu". N V.. tin- Thirtieth Infantry
at I'latlslc.ii-g. N V.; Ihe TiU'tl')
lift liu'.iiiirj at V.iiicouvi r Wash.,
ime bill. ill. ni i u !i of the I ..in Ii ii.t.1
Infautrj at Si-atttc. Spokitii" and'
Alu-ka. ..I thf Niilctcctiih tnfntitiy
at I 'ort .-111. i Ikl.ilioitui
Al-o at.illable ol tlie mobile anpt ar
tin I'i'lIO lit'. Ill tegltueut. a II itltn or-
i: notation tt huh in my officers s.iv
would be invalu.ibli In Mi xl. n . Ihe I'lflh
Iii l.l Aitlllert. at I'oit Sill, exieiiting
Haiti I. t A. Willi h Is al Foil P.liss, oti.i
liait.ilion of i he Third Fli Id Artillery, ,c
l-'oit Mei. 'a , th" oilier battalion and
lle,iil.ll.it ti is In lug at l'ott S.i I u llolH
ton. i'c , and one battallnli of nglncer
at M. a-luiiston. I1 C. Iiarracks u tot.n
of II i;.
Mli. I.ils of the War 1 icp.n tment aiMcd
tii-ulghi that If lie, uy the 1 1.U'in
I'.MM Al Illicit tioops III the I'llitiil
States could b" drawn on. making a
total additional icgolar anny force of
22.212
It Is al-o suggested as proliable tliat
the War li part'iieiit winild avail itself
without delay of the oticti- to serte trom
the i lack National (in n. I cavalry tegl-
its 1. 1 New Voik, Illinois Ohio.
Pi mi- tt aula. Arl...i.a .n,. . w Mexico,
a total of appinxtiii.it. ly '.nun men
I on III I sr 'J'J,J I 'J II eg ll in i s,
W lining tin sen it" tun ti.e Atueiiean
txpeditloi low in Mix. o 'ii.li meet th
late of Hoiibm of It', nun, Senaloi
l.iW'in, e V Sin i si in i. Illinois. Ilepuh
1'.. . .n. 1'itro.lip i d in tin sinat' tills after,
noon ,i ii ..I nt i. ni an .lorizitM the liiii
lent lo i -.-He a call fi. ."ill, nun t ,lilnreu
Tin ir-.il'.iumi provulis that the vol
ll'itcils shall be iiiiisleie.l o.il of servlC"
as so.... as Villa. Ihe .Mi xii an I. an. In,
ii. is n .'ipiurc'l ..e Iuiinl At M'.
Sllii'lli ill - iiqips; t In ii .-olutlnu Mas
placed on Ihe table ready lo be t.iti, on
al ati.i I line il in called up.
Sen nor Sh, rm. in siietely iTiiicI.K'd
tin l.i.l. ot iidlilart stteiigtli behind the
c.xpe.litioi . I i.-. l.li inn 111, il the position
ol' I'eishlng s fonis iliny I.. ionics moi"
Ple at mils a i peiieti.ies into unknown
cotiiili.t. he w' n mil Ih" ."eiiitite bi'.nioli
of toe liotiii m Hun i' was "lulling
Willi the lives of men, w. Hie e.ifct)
of lie 1. oi.lcr and with oip' national
h, ,11.11 ill. i e III. Ill so'llc M'l'lll I. .IJipll'.t-
ati
"S'i.iM we w .11. ' tie it-!,. ,) ,
auoitii . iti'.it.iin has iliino f"i
n th. ... n.i.s of our liiMoty what
old i-.i l.'iigl.ind ill her nculi.t or i.or
ilon' Winn will avail lo wipe out the
tluln if wo permit il'.' Will duttn.i.;
