All Northern Mexico Is Seething Wilh
HARRISBURG TELEGRAPH
• YYYV -NT,, f-.t nv CARRIEU O CENTS A WEEK.
LAAA V i\ O. D."> NIXGLK COPIES a CENTS.
'RUMORS OF MORE REVOLTS
GIVE SINISTER TURN TO U. S.
TROOP SITU A TION IN MEXICO
Torreon Garrison Is Reported to Have Gone Over to Chi
huahua Force in Sympathy With Villa; All Northern
Mexico Is Seething With Open Rebellion Against the
de Facto Government
FEARED STATE OF SONORA, NEVER STRONG
FOR CARRANZA WILL ALSO TURN TO BANDIT
Troops Along Border Under Arms All Night; Machine
Gun Detachments Held in Readiness For Instant Use
Should Outbreaks Occur on This Side of Line; El
Paso Fears Uprising
K1 Paso, Tex., March 23.—Francisco Villa has established a
base to the westward of Xamiquipa to reorganize his command and
recruit new men for his army, it was reported here to-day. At this
new base, it was said Villa woidd lay plans to operate with the force
of General Luis lierrera who is understood to have renounced the
de facto government. The American army base at Columbus has
had no news of Villa for over two days.
General Luis Herrera, until recently in command of the Car
ranza garrison at Chihuahua City is said to be moving northwest
ward to effect a juncture with Villa and this, in connection with the
report that the Carranza garrison at Torreon had revolted, has
occasioned grave concern among the American armv officers in
El Paso.
V illa men. augmented by the com
mand of General llerrera said to num
ber 2,000, might be in a position to
harrass General Pershing's army and
seriously interrupt the line of com
munication between the advanced base
of American forces at Casas Grandes
unit the base at Columbus.
Would Transfer 15asc
An early agreement with the Car
ranza government for the permission
m to use Mexican railway lines is greatly
T " desired by army officers. The main
base would then be transferred from
Columbus to Kl Paso and the Mexico
Northwestern railway could be used
to ship men and xupplies to Casas
Grandes.
The railroad could be easily main-1
talncd against interruption while the
present line southward out of Colum
bus over a desert might be readily
i-ul. should Villa recruit a formidable
body of men. Villa is said to have
sent agents among the populace in
the mountain districts urging them to
support him against the Americans
and is equipping his men with arms
itnd ammunition which be had stored.
There is no confirmation of a re
port that Colonel t'ano of Carranza's
jriny has joined forces with Villa.
All was quiet in Juarez early to
lay and street car service, which was
suspended last night for fear of trou
ble in that Mexican city, was resumed.
The railroad bridges however, are slill
under guard.
So grave was the situ.ition regarded
here that the military authorities
planned to-day drastic steps to relieve
all Mexicans in Kl Paso of any arms
they might have concealed in their
homes ami enforce what would be
practically martial law in "little Chi
huahua," the heart of El Paso's Mexi
can section.
NoUlicrs Voder Arms
All night long K. Paso waited for
the warning whistles which would tell
that the expected outbreak had oc
curred. Three hundred soldiers with
machine gun detachments waited un
der arms for any emergency and the
police reserves, equipped with rilles,
were also held ready.
It is understood that government
officials here have sent to Washington
a recommendation, couched in the
strongest terms, urging that steps be
taken to disarm all Mexicans along the
border, taking the right of forcible
entry and search if necessary. Up to
the present, it is said, the Washington
authorities opposed such a step on the
ground that, it would be misinter
preted by the Mexicans as diserimi
naiion against them and in violation of
their rights. It is now insisted by the
local authorities that the time has
passed for any delicacy in handling
THE WEATHER]
For Ifi»rrlsl»iir>j: nn«l vicinity: Fair,
continued cold to-night, witli
loupMt temperature about -5 de
grees: Friday fair and warmer.
For Hastem Pennsylvania: Fair to
night: Friday fair and warmers
nortlnvcHt winds beeomtaff: vari
able.
River
Tlio severe storm, which WAS OPll
llranrli will remain nearly sta
tionary. The Juniata will fall.
The West llraaeli will rl*c, ex
cept the upper portion, which
will fall somewhat. \o material
chances are likely to occur In Ice
conditions, except In the Upper
West Ilranch. The Ice broke at
1 Icarfleld about 1) a. m. to-day
and moved off on 4.5 feet stave.
A staKc of about 1.11 feet Is Indi
cated for llnrrishurK Friday
mo ml Oft.
fienernl Condition*
These severe storm, which was cen
tral over the Ohio Valley Tues
day inoruliiK;. has moved rapldly
northeastward to the North \t
lantle coast. It caused rain, sleet
and snow generally over thi« north
half of the country east of the .Mls-
MISMI ppI river In the last twcut>-
four hours. The hitch pressure
area from Manitoba, attended by
a fall of 2 to 36 decree* la tem
perature, has overspread the east
ern half of the country, except
New Hiifiland.
Temperature: 8 a. n»„ 28*
Sun: Itlscs, <1:0*- a. m.t sets, <1:21
P. ni.
Moon: Rises. 11:1-1 p. in.
River Stage: 4.tt feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature. .'PI.
I.owest temperature, il«.
Mean temperature* 34.
Annual temperature, 40. ,
the situation. It is pointed out that no
Amerioun is permitted to enter Mexico
i armed and that there has been a far
! greater laxity on this side of the bor
: der than was desirable.
The situation in Juarez remains
mostly a subject, of conjecture with
i such information as is obtainable bear
ing a decidely sinister aspect.
Outbreaks Feared
Whatever may happen in Juarez,
there is no supposition here that any
attack would be made on El Paso from
[Continued on Pftge 12.]
EXPERT POINTS
OUT CITY NEEDS
TO BUSINESSMEN
Urges New Housing Code, High
School, and Manual Train
ing in Grades
!
"1 can say with evidence to prove
j my statement, that no city in Penn
! sylvanla has done so much for the en
richment of the lives of its people as
has Harrisburg."
This was one of the outstanding sen
tences'in the address of Allen D. Al
-1 bert, municipal expert and president
of the International Association of Pvo
[Continued on Page 7]
Only Two Sections of
Hay Army Increase Bill..
Are Awaiting Disposition
Washington, March ?3.—Considera
tion of the Hay army Increase bill
I was continued in the House to-day
with only two important sections of
j the measure still awaiting disposition.
„ One was the military pay provision
j under which the bill is expected to
i produce a force of 425,000 National
! Guardsmen within five years as a sub
stitute for the administration's con-
I tinental army proposal and the other
] was that providing for the constrnc
j tion of nitrate plants,
j When the House resumed work to
iday Representative Gardner's amend
ment proposing to substitute for the
| militia pay provision the volunteer
provisions of the Chamberlain Senate
j bill, was pending.
j An agreement had been reached for
an hour's debate on the amendment.
It was not expected that the amend
| ment would be adopted.
Washington, March 23.—The na
tional defense program was advanced
! another stage, yesterday when the
Senate passed Senator Chamberlain's
bill to double the number of cadets
at the West Point Military Academy
by raising the authorized attendance!
from 770 to 1332.
If the measure passes the House it
will open the way to West Point to
I the enlisted man, both of the army'
and of the National Guard. It pro-1
vides for the appointment of not more
than 200 enlisted men by the Presi
j dent, two cadets by each Congress
! men, two from each Territory, four
trom the District of Columbia, two
j from natives of Porto Uieo, four from
each State at large, and sixty from thei
United States at large.
DENOUNCE ABUSE Ol
FRANKING PRIVILEGE
By .Issociatci Press
Washington, March 23.—Abuse of'
itlie. Congressional franking privilege
;is denounced in a report of the House!
Printing Committee, which has in-1
eluded a provision in the pending re- 1
I vision of the printing laws designed |
I to stop the vpractiee. The report'
[charges that members of Congress
furnish franked envelopes to in- j
dividuals, committees and organiza- j
i tions interested in promoting propa-l
jgunda at the public expense, t
HARRISBURG, PA., THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 23, 1916,
Adopts Rival's Baby and Takes Mother Into Own Home j
. _____ j
7 c.vh rrocKwrLi\
BSI&Y J
\W'A*/ sav*r&/
Chicago, March 23. Mrs. C. W . Stockwell, who decided to adopt her
husband's child months before It was born of another woman, has also
taken Into her home the mother of t lie baby, for Ihe girl has been driven
from lier own liome by her father, a uttered by her moral lapse.
"It was my husband's confession that, brought TO rac the first news of
the existence oi' the girl and the coming baby." said Mrs. Stockwell. "That
fact had great weight in influencing me and fixing my attitude toward
him, the mother of his child and the child itself.
"Of course, there are many husbands who are unfaithful to their
wives, but we'always believe our husbands arc the exception, and there
are many wives who never learn the truth. If J had learned of his un
faithfulness from another I hardly believe I could hare forgiven him.
"Suppose I had left him? Our' church does not sanction divorce. I
would have faced long years alone; our little home here would have been
broken up and none of us would have found peace or happiness.
"My heart is still sore for the girl whose loving mistake brought her
such bitter experience. She says tjie entire happening is still a mystery
to her. My one request to her is that from now on she must be a good
woman, so that when the time comes for our little son to know that I am
not his real mother, he may find pride in the woman he is to, know as his
real mother."
BIG BULL MOOSE
LEADERS HERE
FOR CONFERENCE
Signs Point to Continuance ol'
Progressive Party Organiza
tion For Coming Campaign
Between thirty and forty Washing;- :
ton party men are attending the State
conference at the Bolton and the
question of what reference should be
made to Governor Brumbaugh's cam
paign in behalf of a reunited Republi
can party was the big business of tlie
first hour. Almost all of the men in
attendance were favorable to the party
putting up its own State ticket this
year.
A committee on resolutions was
named with William Flinn, Gilford
Pinchot, George IJ. Holmes and others
as members. These resolutions will i
reaffirm allegiance to Colonel Koose- ,
velt and his policies and cull for a
straight party ticket to be nominated
in May.
Among those present were William
Flinn, E. A. Van Valkenburg, Rob
ert K. Young. Clifford Pinchot. and 1
William Draper Lewis.
indications early this afternoon
[Continued on Page 7]
Reduction Company Given
More Time by Health Dept.
Officials of the Pennsylvania Kedue- ]
tion company, contractors for remov
ing ashes anij garbage in the. city,
were given an opportunity by I he City
Health bureau after a conference yes
terday, to obtain men and resume i
regular collections.
Owing to the strike of ash and gar
bage collectors in the city, no Collec
tions were made on Monday and Tues
day, and only a few wagons were out
yesterday and to-day. "The city
health bureau decided to give the Re
duction company officials more time
to get men for the wagons, and it is
believed that regular collections will
be resumed within a few days. An
other meeting of the health board will
probably bo held next week to dis
cuss the situation. Samuel Gardner. |j
president of the Reduction company ! ■
said yesterday that he will pay motl ,
20 cents an hour to make collections.!.
NI:\YSBOVS_TO BOOST
Further plans for Roosting the I lar-<
risburg Newsboys' Association will be j i
discussed to-morrow evening at aj i
iigeUng ot the carriers' organization, jj
ELECTION JUDGE
GUILTY OF FRAUD,
JURY'S VERDICT
William M. Jones Convicted of
Conspiracy; Will Sentence 1
Board Members Together
By a sealed verdict returned this
morning at the convening of March
quarter sessions, William M. Jones,
judge of the election board of the
second precinct, Sixth ward, was con
victed of conspiracy at the Septem
ber, 1915, primaries.
The judge of the board is the only
member who stood trial, the others,
Delano Jones, J. 11. need and George
13. Aloore . having entered pleas yes
terday of "nolle contendere"—no de
| fense. . . . .
The four will-be called for sentence
i together.
' •One'member of the board who had
been Indicted with the others didn't
answer to his paine when called yes
terday. This was W. 11. Young. His
death occurred several weeks ago.
The Sixth ward board was charged
1 with having falsified the returns of
the primaries in such a way as to al
low Benjamin Smith, a majority of
one vote in the whole ward over
Bertron A. Weills, in the contest for
the Republican nomination of con
stable. A recount was made by the
county commissioners and the dis
crepancy was shown when the ballot
box was opened.
Won Acquittal by Own
Pleading; in Jail Again
Edward Welsh, who pleaded his
own case before a jury in the Dauphin
county criminal court this week, and
was acquitted on a charge of larceny,
was given another chance to-day to
act as attorney for himself when he
was brought before Mayor E. S. Meals
charged with drunken disorderliness.
He was arrested last, evening by De
tective Speese.
OUST BUSS WAR HEAD
By Associated Press
Petrograd. March 23. General
Spukhomlinoff, former minister of
war, has been removed by imperial
ukase from the council of the empire,,
saye a-semiofficial news agency.
General Soukhomlinoff was charged
with being responsible for the short
age In munitions which had seriously!
interfered with the operations of the j
Russian army. j
DISCUSS MEANS
OF REDUCING
PA. ACCIDENTS
Great Industrial Leaders and J
Corporation Heads Confer
at the Capitol
GOVERNOR PRESIDES
Gompers Says "Overwork" Is ,
as Much Cause as Care
lessness
Great labor and industrial leaders, j
railroad presidents and officials of the < |
big corporations in all parts of Penn- ,
sylvania, numbering nearly 200, met j,
In the hall of the House of Hepre- ,
sentatives to-day to discuss ways and
means of reducing the industrial ac- ,
cidents in the Keystone State.
The conference was called at the ,
invitation of Governor Martin G.
Brumbaugh, and he presided and de
livered an address. John Price Jack-1 :
son, Commissioner of Labor and In-j
dustry, Samuel Gompers, president ofj
the American Federation of Labor, j
James T. McCleary, secretary of the
American Iron and Steel Institute,
William C. Wilson, claims attorney of
the Delaware, Lackawanna and West
ern Railroad Company, and Van
Manning, chief of the United States
Bureau of Mines, were among the
slated speakers. At the conclusion of I
each address there were discussions
on the points brought out in the ad
dresses and in this some of the coun- I
try's great labor and industrial lead-1
ers participated.
Governor Brumbaugh, when he
heard of the great number of acci
dents during January and February, j
[Continued 011 Page 7.]
H. P. Fletcher on Way to
Washington For Orders)
By Associated Press
Panama, March 23. Henry P.
Fletcher, new American ambassador |
to Mexico, sailed from here to-day on j
the steamer f'orrillo for New York on
his way to Washington from his for
mer post at Santiago, Chile-
Mr. Fletcher said he was not pre- :
pared to discuss the problems con-1
fronting him in Mexico. He was going'
to Washington, he said, to receive in
structions and familiarize himself with !
conditions.
FIND POISONER
OF RICH COUPLE
IN DEEP STUPOR
New York Doctor Charged
With Killing Millionaire Is
Near Death
By Associated Press
1 New York, March 23.—Detectives
| sent to-day to arrest Dr. Arthur War
j ren Waite in connection with the death
of John E. Peclc, millionaire druggist
of Grand Kapids, Mich., found him in
a stupor as a result of an opiate, self
i administered. Physicians at noon to-
I day were working on him to save his
I life.
District Attorney Swann soon after
that hour arrived at Dr. Waite's apart
■ ment and went in, accompanied by a
j stenographer. It was given out that
| Dr. Waite had taken the opiate to in
duce sleep and it was believed that lie
would recover.
The order for Dr. Waite's apprehen
sion was decided upon by the district
attorney following the receipt of in
formation from Grand Kapids indi
cating that Peck may have been poi
soned. This information was received
[Continued on Pago 11.]
Is Bungalow Apron
Sufficient Clothing
For Lady in Yard ?
j Up until to-day Additional Law
1 Judge S. J. M. MeCarrell never ad
mitted, in open court, at least, his lack
' of definite knowledge as to what con
-1 stitutes a "bungalow" apron. During
the trial this morning of Mrs, Mary
'Shaffer, charged with maintaining a
disorderly house and furnishing liquor
! to minors, the court found out.
Question and answer were recorded
when Mrs. Shaffer, in her own defense,
denied the allegation of a witness that
several yountf girls of the neighbor
hood had been seen in her yard clad
in—well, really, nothing to speak of.
"Why," said the witness, "she had
l on only an apron- a bungalow apron."
"Was she properly clad?" asked her
counsel. '
"Why, certainly."
"You said," commented Judge
MeCarrell, "that she wore 'only an
apron'."
"Surely, a 'bungalow apron'."
Whereupon Judge MeCarrell asked
and learned that a bungalow apron,
according to Mrs. Shaffer, is a iong
sleeved effect in gingham with a mod
estly low neck.
Ali-s. Shaffer and her witnesses dc- '
nied that girls and men congregated ;
at her house for any questionable pur
poses. One witness said,the only songs
she'ever heard sung were hymns.
The prosecutor was Harry Campbell
fatlier of "Mooney" Campbell, who
was convicted Monday of having crimi
nally attacked a daughter of Mrs.
Shaffer. The latter intimated that the
charges against her were reprisals be- |
cause young Campbell had been con- j
vlcted, i
PERSISTENT FIRE
OF GERMAN GUNS
INDICATES DRIVE
French Cling to Post of Ilau- '
court Hill; Russ Are
Active
PUSH TEUTONS BACK 1
Advance Along Dvina and in
Galicia; Two Steamers
Sunk
The French are still clinging to a
part of the little hill of Haucourt.
southwest of Malancourt, on which
the Germans gained a footing last
evening In an attack along the front
between Avoeourt wood and Mulan-
| court, northwest of Verduil.
Paris announces to-day that the
j German infantry attacks in this sec
tor were not resumed during the night
i and even the heavy artillery dimin
j ished in violence.
I The bombardment east of the Meuse
was continued with undiminished in
tensity. The persistence with which
the Germans are pounding the French
positions near Vaux and Damloup, in j
this region indicates that they prob-.
! ably are preparing for new attemps
to break through in the sector where'
their lines have been pushed nearest
jto the heart of the stronghold.
Besides striving hard against German
; positions along the Dvina and below
j Dvinsk on the northern end of the
| Russian line, where Pctrograd tie-1
i clares some successes have been
scored, the Russians are displaying!
| notable activity in Galicia. The Aus
jtrians report lively artillery fire along
i their front there, with infantry ad- ]
| vances at some points. These are de- i
i clared to have been repulsed.
| Sinking of the Norwegian bark
j Mndtield, of 2,270 tons, bound from
I Portland, Oregon, for United Kingdom
I ports, is announced from London.
Thirty members of the crew were res- 1
: cued. Another vessel sunk was the
j French bark Bougainville, of 2.24S
[Continued on Page 12.]
CONDEMNED As PRIZES
By Associated I'rcss
London, March 28.—The Hamburg-j
I American liners Prinz Adalbert and i
Kron Prinzessin C'ecilie, which were
seized at Falmouth at the outbreak
of the war were condemned in prize'
j court to-day as prizes.
T i
1 Jc
1 #
1 illy represent, it is said, more than-three billions JL
a f
I Prevention Conference was opened. C. L. Close, represent- I
i $ Rree! Corporal
1 )n had already expended thousands of dollars for safety I
S devices and that efforts are now being made to the
T men to do all they can to prevent acidents. Vice-President f
f idvale Steel Corporation, was another «
T speaker, and he told of the safety measures at his plants, f
« 'leary, secretary of the American Iron and |9
f ite, talked on "Hazzards of the Steel Industry 1
I and Their Prevention." B. F. Laßue, of the Lehigh Valley L
9
I & W., and Van Manning, chief of the United States Bureau I
J of Vines, were the other speakers.
\ IGNORE CONSPIRACY CHARGE |
| ;burg.—March quarter sessions grand jury late V
? s afternoon ignored the bill of indictment preferred by •
I the District Attorney's office against arshall Finklin, charg- A
9 td with conspirac./. Ficklin, according to a member of the 1
! Second Precinct, Sixth Ward election board had replaced 1
one of tht board at the September primaries. L
GERMANS SINK FOUR SHIPS J
London, March tS. —The Norwegian and British steaiv. I
ships, Kannik and Sea Serpent and the Norwegian and |
French barks Lindfield and Bougainville have been sunk |
by the Germans. There is no loss of life reported. \ ►
ASSERTS HERRERA IS LOYAL
L El Paso, Tex., March 23.—Ignacio Enrigue*, civil gc I
K 1
. ernor of the state of Chihuahua, sent a telegram to Consul
Garcia at Al, Paso to-day declaring that General Luis t t
* Herrera, commanding the garrison at Chihuahua City still
was loyal to the first chief and not to credit report*, of his
► defection to Villa.
. . MARRIAGE LICENSES ■!
1 L>r. Harry Wnlmer. MillrrMhurit, and >II*M Clin Minnie Ihi her, I.ORMII. |
(irorKf Arthur WntkliiM, Xcw < IIIIIIhtIIIIHI, nml Minnie M* rutin « aihf-
I rluc Hfur., \«>rthuiiilierlini«l.
16 PAGES CITY EDITION
AUGUSTA SWEPT
BY FIVE MILLION
CONFLAGRATION
Thirty Blocks of Georgia Me
tropolis Destroyed in Largest
of Southern Fires
HEART OF CITY BURNED
Nashville, Tenn., Suffers sl,-
500,000 Loss; 5,000 Persons
Made Homeless
•
- By Associated Press
Augusta, Ga., March 23. One of
a series of tires which have caused
millions of dollars' worth of damage
in the past few days in the South and
southwest swept through ten busi
ness blocks of Augusta and twenty
adjoining residence blocks last niglit
and early to-day, and before being
gotten under control had caused dam
age conservatively estimated at not
less than $5,000,000. No lives were
reported lost in the Augusta tire, al
though there were scores of narrow
tContinued 011 Paso B.]
Small Breweries Desire to
Fight Indictments; Big
Concerns Ready to Pay
Special to the Telegraph
j Erie, Pa., March 23.—The news that
! brewery counsel were here to arrange
a conference with Federal Judge
I Thompson and get. a line 011 probablt
! fines if the 72 brewing companies
pleaded no defense to the indictments
for conspiracy to violate the federal
corrupt practices act brought tele
grains from manv of the indicted
companies vigorously protesting
against such a move.
It developed heads of the indicted
breweries are divided tin the course to
j lie followed. The larger Philadelphia
and Pittsburgh breweries favor plead
ing guilty if they can obtain reason
able assurance tho, fines will not. be
I heavy. The innximiim penalty is $15,-
j 000 for each indicted brewery. The
I big city brewers consider this would
i lie n good political move, tending mort
quickly to end the whole inquiry,
j Heads ol' the smaller breweries saj
they want to come into court, opei
their books and light the indictments.
