i
J . tut J
r In m If mm
-. I
1
V. "
'?
It
U "1
. .-i i.
r.
f . ?
t. Jt
XX
V-;i 'Jt wf
it
n
::
TROSrER'TV TALK
"Sic Ami'rira Kirt," Wiiim hy
T.auri'ni l. Kililifll. at ilui i'mnen
lion bull will lit wurtli tt'hit hinrilii(.
Kilrlii'll is a Irituri'r vt naiinnal ro-
WEA1I1ER REPORT
TIT.SA, M.rrh 21. The temper
Mure: Maximum 9H, minimum !.
tutith winds ami clmr.
OKLAHOMA: Weduetday and
7iiur.diiy (air, cooler.
aoo -.tiaiaos iua40)sin f II n
U VSS' Va r" 'I
TULSA, OKLAHOMA, THURSDAY, MARCH 21!, 1016
12 PAGES
PRICE FIVE CENTS
VOL. XI, NO. 161
a n
J ))
CARRAHZA GENERAL IVOLTS AND TURNS TO BATTLE U. S. TROOPS
Defeat Being Inevitable, Harris Withdraws,
and Amid Wildest Enthusiasm M'Graw Is
Chosen as G. 0. P. National Committeman
Convention Votes Three
to One to Send New Deal
Candidate to Windy City
Ponca City Man Wins in All the Test
Votes; John Fields Is Made
Permanent Chairman
HARMONY REIGNED THROUGHOUT SESSION
Bird S. McGuire, of Tulsa, Is Delegate'
at-Large and R. W. Kellough
Selected Alternate
CONVENTIOK IN BRIEF
OKLAHOMA CITY, Maivli 2l National
coiimntteeinan, J. J. Mod raw, Vmca City.
Delegates at large to national convention,
John Fields, Oklahoma City; T. D. Ferguson,
Watonga; Dird S. McGnire, Tulsa, and A. II.
(leissler, Oklahoma City. Alternates, K. AV. Kel
lough, Tulsa; Hmee L. Keenan, Tahlequah; Wil
liam A. Stewart, Okmulgee, and Claud liaker,
Pawhuska.
Presidential electors at large, James R. Fchols,
Waurika, and J. C. Denton, luskogee.
Chairman oP state committee, Arthur II.
Oeissler, Oklahoma City.
By GLENN CONDON
(Staff Correspondent.)
OKLAHOMA CITY, March 22. After many vain
attempts to secure control of the Republican state
convention .here today, James Harris of Wagoner
late this afternoon announced through his floor leader,
L. (1. Disney, that his name would not be presented to
the convention for national committeeman. J. J. Mc
Graw of Ponca City, his opponent, in the hottest con
tested race ever known in the historv of Republican pol
itics in this state, was then nominated amid much en
thusiasm. Disgruntled Harris supporters nominated John
Fields, a friend and supporter of McGraw, and, although
Fields insisted that his name not be considered and that
br would refuse to serve if elected, many of the Harris
delegations cast their votes for him.
McGraw, of course, won by a vote of (539 to 212.
A Notable Meeting.
The convention was a notable one from many staud
' points. The attendance was the largest ever known,
everv one of the 956 delegates being present. All day
long" test votes were taken. In every instance McGraw
had control, his majorities ranging all the way from
fourteen to more than two hundred.
Many harmony talks were made by representatives
of both factions and tonight it is generally felt that all
ill-feeling has been forgotten and that Harris will not
curry out his announced program of going before the
national convention at Chicago to contest McGraw 's
right to serve. If Harris should demand his election
by the delegates to the national convention from Okla
' hbma it is doubtful now if he could even win by that
iintilini iriMlinrl.
Harris has.won two district conventions, McGraw has
won one and two others are contested. McUraw is prac
tically sure to win in the three district conventions yet
.. . . (Continued on Pie. Two.) ,
OKLAHOMA G. 0. P.
05
JAMES J.
Resolutions Slamming Democrats
Passed at Republican Convention
( Uy Stuff
OKLAHOMA C1TV, March 22. Kcsulmlons ndupteil at tile Mate Itepuli
licun convention In Oklahoma City today vrre tlia saino uh Ukisc
adopted ly the Tulsu county convention last Saturday with a few minor ex
ceptions. The Tnla resolutions wore written by V. J. Jieifg of Tulsa. The
resolutions as adoptoil toduy follow:
'Itesolved, that we, n representatives of the Kepuhllcan voters
of the stHte of Oklahoma, In convention assembled again renew ti n-l
reaffirm our alieulance to the principles of the Jtepulilicun party
and that It with prldu we rei-all the achlevemenlH that have hcen
won hy the Republican party in the past under Its matchless leaders,
whoso names are familiar to every patriotic American. With tho
birth of the Republican party there bejran n new national era. It
has been its privilege In the past to exemplify and execute t he prin
ciples announce!, in the declaration of independence; to vitalize Mid
enforce the constitution of the I'nited States; and to make the union
of the states a union In fact as well us a union In name orly.
"The Republican putty, through its leaders, under luws enacted
and policies inaugurated by them, has always elevated, honored and
niade the wuge earner of America the envy of their fellow. laborers
throughout the world. It has made this great nation of ours a land
of homeB and homesteads, our people a class of hun'e-huililern and
home-owners, and clevuted' the American family to the proud posi
tion of the cornerstone of tho republic.
"While we are proud of our parly's pa-t achievements, we rec
ognize Its duty to the future. We realize ;hut wilh the close of the
present great struggle in Europe new national problems will pre
sent themselves for solution ami we are glad we have within the
ranks of our purty today men trained and skilled in the science of
government who possess the qualities of patriotism, statesmanship
and loyalty to national honor and the nation's defense. to n degree
equal with our heroes of the past; men who not only possess lhc
ability and training, but the unselfish patriotism to e.iuble them to
guide the destiny of our country In the future and preserve and de
fend American honor until It shall con iand the respect of all na
tions. With a feeling of assurance and confidence that only men
possessing the qualities of statesmanship, patriotism and zeal f ir the
preservation, advancement and defense of the republic will be
selected as standard hearers of the Republican party in the ap
proaching national cumpaign of 1!H6, we hereby pledge our loval
support to the candidates to be selected nt the national Republi
can convention, to be held in Chicago in June, lUlii, and
"He it further resolved, that we extend our sympathy to the
well meaning but misguided citizenship of this, state ami the nation
generally, who have vast their lot with, voted for aim placed In
power that party of perennial promise, but of constant failure. A
party that has proved a failure whenever and wherever Its policies
have been tried and put to the acid test, whether national, state
or local.
"We denounce as opposed to n Republican form of govern
ment the practice of employing private unofficial ig"tit9, who are
In no wuy responsible In the administration of governmental affuirs,
and who owe a duty only to the official employing them, for the
conduct of any governmental business, either public or private.
"We view with alarm the vuclllnting diplomatic policy Inaugu
rated, carried on by the present Democratic administration, in the
conduct of the nution's foreign affairs, the maintenance of our
right and the defining of our relation with the countries of K'iropo
now engaged In the world's greatest war. A policy which has
canned our claim of neutrality to be doubted and serlousiy ques
tioned, our national Integrity to be nssniled, and has driven the chief
executive of our nation to the political expediency ot appealing to
(Continued on rue Tan.) .
COMMITTEEMAN
:
o X i 4.s
A.
MGHAW.
Con i'siionliiit )
am l
5
TWENTY-SEVEN ARMY TRUCKS OFF
LINE OF MARCH; DRIVERS MISSING
FLAME SWEPT
PARIS TAKES A
COUNT OF LOSS
Damage Yesterday " Ksti
mated From Might to
Ten Million.
RELIEF WORK STARTS;
CITY IS PATROLLED
Four Known Dead and One
Missing Is Known Toll
of Fire King.
P ARIS, Texas. .March 22. livery
iiu liming train laic Inlay ami
tonight was bringing ro l-don. lolb
im; and (cols to tin- approximate!)
ciulil thousand homeless persons In
I'nris, rendered practically ilcstilulc
bv lust night's fire which tlltl property
da inn ne estimated at between SS.oun,
iioo mid Slo.niio.niMi ami cols at least
three lives. One pel-soil Is known to
be missing. Nearly every
Ionise unil between I..MMI
ini'-iiM
unil two
thousand residences were
I'liiiMlitiiril
in Hie lliimi s.
The dead:
.IOIIN M It W it.
mrs. w. .1. it ii,i:v.
IMIUATII ii:d NCt.RO.
All lined woman, M.w. . ti. Pool. Is
missing. Her home was destroyed and
sin- litis not been seen since the fire
started.
The sin-els id tile city arc being pa
trolled tonight bv nine build red citi
zens, sworn In us officers, and pcrrcel
older is being maintained.
Start Reliel I olid
l a mas meeting lull? today XI7.
IIIMI was subscribed In the Iih'ii relief
fund. cHspiiM is. mayors and older
persons and oigiiiiialinus lliioughoiit
the state have opened eonlriliiitloii
lists and it is hclic'cd the destitute
victims will Im promptly cared for.
The homeless are being liouseil III pri
vate residences, all of which luno
been thrown open, and in tenls to
night. One train late today brought
seven carloads of rood, clothing ami
lenlH from Mains I' '.mils ;reenllle,
lloiiliain and adjoining cities.
Telegraph and telephone companies
scut construction crews to I'urls late
today to restore normal communica
tion, telegraph and ti Icplioiie offices
all Inning Im-cii destroyed by the fire,
t'ouucclinu was made today with out
side points from linproy ised uuiirlers
here.
Unit of elearimr the slni-ls con
tinued tonight hy tin organled fnm'
under direction of Mayor MeCuislioii,
with prospects or filially ijciirlng tho
business ilisirht id debris, u mailer id
possibly IS hours.
Nasliyillc. I n., l ire Stricken.
NASHVILLE, Tenn.. March 22
Tire in East Nashville late today
swept an area of S'i city blocks, caus
ing damage estimated at f 1.2r.,f00.
One death, that of a negro, wus re
ported. The section was largely occupies
by resiliences and hundreds of fam
ilies were made homeless.
The fire, originating in a small
dwelling at Sixth and Main streets,
was fanned by a gale ami burned a
path threo blocks wide nnd a mile
long. About five hundred houses were
destroyed, including the home of the
Little Sisters of the four, an institu
tion for the aged, the Tulip street
Methodist church and the Edgefield
Uuptist church.
Oovernor Rye called out the militia
and all semi-military organizations to
aid fire sufferers and the burned dis
trict was being Rinirded lonlglii
against possible looting.
The Cumberland river separates tho
fire-swept section from the business
district of Nushville.
Kansas I 'ire.
KANSAS CITY, March I'lres
which ravaged the prairies of west
ern Kansas and parts of the wooded
sections of Missouri south . of here
earlv today were believed to be either
extinguished or under control tonight.
1 lodge City,- Kan., which was
threatened by fires in n quarter circle
of counties to the north and west, was
reported tonight out of all danger.
The flames were not subdued, how
ever, before dozens of farm houses
and many miles of vuluuhle pasture.
were reduced to ashes.
Near I'tieu, Kan., a stretch forty
(Continued on Page Two.).
Republic
Displaces
Monarchy
Pi kino, Minvii a. Hiiiio ,
ili'lariiiii'iil iiuiiiiliilt' IhsiiimI
lOlllulll IIIIIKIIIIU I ( lll llllllllllllll
iiicnl (if tln iiioiiiuvliy mill iv
Mimplioti of Hit' ri'imlilli'.
Thr mniiiliiu- mi tin' ri-nlii-tlon
slmuo 1 1 ii t tin- ili'iiiiiiul fur u
iiioiiaii liinl flll lll of (IIM TIIMH-Mt
Is nut iiiiiinliniiii- mill that thrri
foiv, 1 1 ; i Sill Kill ri'li'i't" lli
rini nil hli mill ii siiiiic iii'l
ilrncy. Officials of Hie Chinese republic
association which has been actively
financing the opposition of Yuan Shi
Kal said here today that the an
nouncement from I'ekmg means that
the revolution Is al an end. The as
sociation lias a membership In thu
Americas of about Iblll.lifht.
The imperial documents, the man
date adds, will lie relumed by Vimn
Shi la to I he state council which will
reconvene nt the senate preparatory
to I lie resumption of the republic.
Hsu Shih Chang, who left the cabi
net because of the inoiiari hlal move
ment, signed the mandate as secretary
of slat, having re-etiiereil Hie cabi
net. MEN BATTLE OVER
POLITICAL FIGHT
K. F. Wake in Hospital
Seriously Injured; Mc
Donald His Assailant.
OKLAHOMA CITY, March 22. E.
E. Hake, attorney ol tlds city and
who has taken an ucllve interest In
politics, was struck over the eye by
A I vu Milionald of E Kino during n
meeting of the Male Lupiibliciin com
I'llllee, and for a lime it was thought
seriously Injured.
The incident occurred early this
morning. The committee being in an
all-niulit session coiisaleriiig contests
Hint had been presented from lhc dif
ferent county coax cut ions, itlakc was
gtcatly Improved Ibis evening.
The trouble between the two men
s'urtcd at Hie Kiova county conven
tion two weeks ago. iccnidllig to Mi:
I'onald. He said thai Klake was re
ported to him as making some re
mark concerning M.-1 1, maid's chutuc
lei and during the trip back home
McDonald .-ays lie Miiued Blake not
to lepi.it whai lie had said about him.
Nothing came of the difficulty until
the incident of the committee meet
ing here. Mi Donald savs w hile sitting
in the committee room he suddenly
became aware that someone was try
ing to strike him and turning struck
out with his fist and hit lilakc over
the eye.
The men wire separated Imme
diately and Mr. lialke was taken to
a hospital, suffering severely from the
blow.
He was reported today as being In n
srrlons condition, but later It was not
thought nny serious consequences
would follow.
The two men were divided In their
preferences for national committee
man, Klake lining a McUraw man and
McDonald u Harris man.
a;ist Tin: 1 H I IMHWS.
Dc I iicio Cm ci nun nl o 1'ii-h Cam
paign on llaiidils.
WASHINGTON, March 2J. The
state department issued I he follc.vlnu
statement regarding conditions in
Mexico late today:
"The depai fluent Is in :ece!pt of
telegraphic advices Ironi vjuereturo to
the effect that the foreign office)
I states that the necessary order has
been issued to pish wilh vigor the
campaign against the Indians in the
Yaqui valley. A telegram dated
Mutch i'l fiein Laredo states that
conditions are quiet at that place.
Advices dated March 21 from
Cicdius Negras state that telegraph
vires to Torreon and I Mil Hugo have
been cut presumably bv bandits. The
situation nt I'iedras Negras is un
changed. Trains are arriving dally.
The strike there In the shops Is stil
on. but it Is expected that it will be
immediately settled.
"tiuuyinas and vicinity die reported
uulat aa is also Xopoljbumpo."
COURIER TELLS
OF A POSSIBLE
ACT OF BANDITS
Commander of Military
I'fise at Columbus Says
I eport Is Fnt rue.
GEN. HERERA'S TURN
TO OUTLAW SERIOUS
Funstou Takes All Precau
tions and Is U'eady for
All Developments.
D KM 1X0, X. M., Mardi
2'2. A motorcycle
rniiiiiT ioiiyiii;; ui'iu
from tlie front reported to
day, according to a message
ruin Columliiis, that
twenty-seven I'nited States
arinv 1 rucks were touinl
tliirty miles off the line of
march yesterday in north
ern Chihuahua and that
their drivers were missiiifr
Report Denied.
COLl'MHl'S. X. M..
March 122. Maior Sample.
coniniaiidiii": the military
hase here of the American
punitive expedition into
Mexico, tonmht authorized
a denial of the report from
Delimit: that twentv-seven
automobile trucks had hoen
found in the Chihuahua des
ert and that their drivers
were missing. Major Sam
ple also stated that there
was no truth m a report
that two American scouts
had hcen killed near Xam
iiiipa today.
Situation Grave.
SAX ANTONIO, March
22. Kveii- though uncon
firmed the report that C en
era I Luis llererra, com
manding two thousand men
at Chihuahua, had aligned
himself with Francisco
Villa against the I'nited
States was received with
grave concern hv General
Funstou and his staff. The
long intervals between Gen
eral Pershing's reports al
readv had keyed the tension
a hit, although General Fun
stou and his chief of staff
continued to profess the be
lief that all was well with
the troops below Casas
Grandcs but the report from
Chihuahua made insignifi
cant any anxiety they
might have felt concerning
General Pershing's opera
tions. Officially and unofficially
the opinion here was that if
(Continued on Page Two.)
r
