Oregon Historical Society
C'P . 207 Second 8t
rrrv
'Ashland Grows While LIthIa flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Lithla Springs
"Oregon's famous Spa"
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, MARCH 23 1916
VOL. XL
NUMBER 87
ASHLAND
IDINGS
Uniform Contract
For Fruit Men
The following contract embodies
the principles which .will be incalcu
lated In tire contract made between
fruitgrowers and selling agencies and
the selling agencies and the Incor
porated central agency as outlined
by the government bureau of mar
kets plan for marketing the fruit
of the Northwest.
Every fruitgrower should study
this contract carefully and talk it
over with his neighbors and if pos
sible with some one who heard Mr.
Basset's talk at the Commercial club
room Saturday.
A decision will be reached by the
Ashland Fruit and Produce Associ
ation at a meeting which is to be held
on Saturday, April 1, at the Commer
cial Club. The grower who Is not
connected with the association, mere
ly requires that the shipping agency
In whose hands he puts his fruit, be
a member of the Fruitgrowers"
Agency, Incorporated, thyia securing
the benefits and protection of the
agency.
Remember that this plan Is not
that of an Interested shipper but of j
Vnlted States marketing experts sent !
by the government to try to relieve j
the conditions In the Northwest ap-!
pie Industry which threaten to de-1
stroy it.
Uniform contract for the growers
and selling agents of fruits and pro
duce In the Pacific Northwest:
In consideration of the mutual ad
vantages to be derived herein, it is
agreed between the parties to this
contract as follows:
1. The grower shall have the ex
clusive right and authority to fix the
price at which his products or any
part thereof may be sold by the sell
ing agent, but In event the price so
fixed shall be higher than the best
market price obtainable after offer
ing the same, the selling agent shall
In no wise be held responsible for
failure to negotiate sales at such
prices
'tea. i
II. It shall be the duty of Ae
agent to co-operate with the grow-
ers' resident selling agents wno are ,
meiiiueis ui w.u 'u,'B""
i TTiMiltcrrnii'orR
Agency, Inc., for the following pur
poses: (a) To secure informat'on as to
.... t !
crop conditions in order to determine
t, ,.., i voinoo f vnrietlPB and
the economic values or aneues miu
.,!
grades.
(b) To work in close harmony
with growers with the aim of secur-
Ing uniform methods In the harvest-jthe
lng, grading, piCIUUS, HUU l"C mi,jo.-
cal handling of the fruit from tree (
fo car; and to secure a standardiza- j
tlon and enforcement of the grading '
and Inspection ruies 01 me nian-a u.
Oregon, Washington, Idaho and Mon
tana. (c) To agree upon a rate which
no contracts for tonnage shall be
entered Into.
(d) To discuss in conference mar
ket conditions and experiences with
various mediums used in the mar
kets for the purpose of ascertaining
the most efficient agencies and mar
ket outlets for the economical per
formance of their mutual contract.
(e) To secure improvement In
transportation and storage service
and conditions.
(f) To work out definite plans
Tcontlnueti on rage Eight.)
Mayor Proclaims
Clean-Up Day
To the Citizens of Ashland:
Monday, April 3, is hereby desig
nated as "Clean-up" day throughout
the city. Don't forget the date. Don't
fall to make preparation for It. The
city provides the teams, as usual, at
the city's expense. They will call for
your garbage some time during that
day. Have it ready. Burn every-
thing you can, then put the remainder
of garbage in boxes, bags or barrels
and have them located wnere wey
can be easily reached ( in the alley,
or in the street if there Is no alley,
and by all means have it ready for
delivery early.
Of all years we sho.uld make this
one of special effort, along this line
as well as other lines. The eyes of
all visitors and there will probably
be many of them will vley our sur
roundings and properties critically
this year. We should make every
thing look the best possible besides
It gives us sanitary conditions, re
duces the fly pest, and leaves a good
Impression on visitors.
Don't forget the date and have your
garbage ready.
O. H. JOHNSON, Mayor.
Phoenix Canal
Stands the Test
Water was turned Into the Phoenix
segment of the Rogue River Canal
company's irrigation system Saturday
to test the substantially of its con
structlon
specific.
ine test is being made
The canal appears to be
firmly constructed and carries a
great volume of water without a
break.
Only 1500 acres under that ditch
have been listed in the subscription
acreage for water this year. rne i
ditch, however, will not be taxed to
Its capacity to carry the quantity re- j
quired for that acreage. I
Mrs. Metcalf Wrests
Honors from Kramer!
J. W. Metcalf, superintendent of
the Shasta division, and wife, Train-
master G. V. Gillette and wife of j
Dunsmulr and Agent G. N. Kramer
went to Gold Ray Saturday in Mr
Metcalf's private car Shasta. The car
una rut. nut at Gold Rav and the
party 6,)ent Sunday fishing. About
B,xty pmlI1(8 0f fiBh wa8 the total j
cat(.h jjrs. Metcalf held the center
nf the gtage all day faling lnt0 the I
river once anU catching a monster
carp which wrested high honors away
from Agent Kramer, who up until
Sunday was considered the kirig carp
fisherman of the Rogue.
Saturday night the party played
cards until a late hour. Mr. Metcalf
Jg tl)e champjon cribbage player of
the Southern Pacific, but could find leave the city, and a great deal more
no competition in the crowd, so red tape, would be necessary. By the
"rummy" and "five hundred" were time the truck could legally leave the
Indulged in with honors about even. city your house, barn and most of
. jthe fence would be in ashes, cooled,
TITimav Miff Are mA I dryed up and blown away. In order
minOl 1?1311CI5 allU to relieve this unnatural state of af
f' i n 'fairs, upon the suggestion of Mayor
COUnCll ROUtine Johnson the fire conTmitte will try
! to work out a feasible plan whereby
The council transacted a large
...
amount of business Tuesday night In
a businesslike manner and also spent
In nnncMnKnlilA (Ima I n lor.frtllV OtlH
. i. ... ... .v...Bv., .
uivuiicu uiotu.-wvii. o u'sohub
was called to order at 7:50 o'clock
with all the councilmen present and
the various departments represented.
Unllnti'lnrr Y a tnn il in rr r t (Via mfnlltoa
j "! B -
; the mayor and recorder were author-
j
zed to enter nto an agreement with
i ...
I the Southern Pacific Company re-(
i parting mineral water fountains at
station. . I
jwo uci Hum any ...in... .11 ... . iv :
was spent in discussing the sign-j
board problem. The Granite street;
curb and gutter matter was disposed j
of. A suggestion regarding fire pro- (from tne uregoman.i
tection for near ne'ghboss of the city ' That the ambition of Ashland to
was referred to the fire committee, become the "Car'sbad of America"
A change in the water system to af-1 is y n means impossible of realiza
ford lower insurance rates was ap-jtlon, Is the judgment of Dr. David
proved and several other important , N- Roberg, state health officer, who
matters were taken care of as else- j recently returned from a visit to
where reported, including the Laurel , southern Oregon. In his capacity as
street sewer, the park lands, the ' 8ate health officer Dr. Roberg tested
Praytor orchard, and the Hotel Ore-! the Ashland spring waters during his
gon fire escapes. I visit, and says he found them to be
The purchase of a tank for lubri- of unU8"al Purity
eating oil for the fire department was I 'Tbere ls no doubt of the medicI
brought up and led Into a discussion I nal val,,M they Possess," added the
of the amount of oil a car should use
and finally the merits of various
makes of cars. The report recom
mending the purchase of the tank
was laid on the table, such a tank
being considered unnecessary.
The request of the Ladles' Anxil
lary Club that they be allowed free
lights and water in their new quar-
ters in G. A. R. hall as they have at credit to a private corporation, the
Ivy Cottage was referred to the elec-: Oregon supreme court Tuesday do
tric light and water committees. clared unconstitutional a $300,000
The council Instructed the proper bond Issue voted by Roseburg tax
officials to notify Mr. Potter to re- payers to subsidize a logging rail
move certain sheds, timbers and oth-; road Into the Cascade mountains,
er debris from a lot on B street bo-1 The contract between the Rose
longlng to the city. j burg and Eastern Railroad company,
After resolutions covering the com-, the Kendall Lumber corporation, and
ing bond election were passed, the , the city of Roseburg was styled "a
council adjourned until Thursday j violation of organic law."
. . . RfiVri ordinances will
cargd fQr Connc aajourne(J at
11:25 p. m.
Chance For
Orchardist
. of April, 1915, by payment of the
The city council Is looking for an ! face va,ue thereof and accrued lnter
ambltlous orchardist who will take est to that date- Merest will cease
care of the Praytor orchard In return ,'
for the fruit. The orchard requires
care, and unless someone is found
who will undertake the care for the
fruit, It will be cut down. This Is a
good chance for some enterprising
young man to clean up a few dollars
in his spare time this summer.
Council Calls Special Election
To Effect Bond Interest Reduction
A special election will be held in
Ashland on April 11, for the pur
Pfie of amending the charter so as
to allow of the calling In of some
$43,500 worth of optional bonds and
the issuance of the same amount of
bonds. While the nroliositlon seems
, rathef com,)lk.ated u lg really very
, Bmpe
The city now has bonds to the
extent of $43,000 outstanding, which
are optional. That is they may be
called In and paid at any time. The
city is paying 6 per cent upon these.
J. H. Farrar, representing the
Lumberman's Trust company of
Port,am1' has been in the city for
the past two weeks and submitted a
i proposition to take over the optional
t)0I1(H and aBked but 5 per ccnt (
terest.
T(le (.ailing n 0f the 6 per cent
bonds and reissuing of them at 5 per
cent, means a saving of several hun -
Fifg Tfllfk AS
4lu,a no
RsnrhPTQ' Aid
IVdllUlvld AJU
If you have lived just outside of
the city limits of Ashland and your
house caught fire, what would you
do? Under the present rules some
such formula as calling up all of the
councilmen and city officials and get-
ting an order to have the fire truck
neighboring ranchers and towns may
gei assistance irom me Asniano. lire
department. Qn BUggestion made
was that all who wished protection
other that those wishing fire truck
service sign up agreeing to pay the
necessary expenses In case of a fire
and a call. A plan will be formulat-
efl and rnncherg who are 1nterestea
....
might do well to talk It over with
some of the city officials.
ASnlSIlU SPIMgS
Highly Praised
doctor.
Court Knocks Out
Roseburg R.R. Bonds
Declaring that the city of Rose
burg was attempting to loan its
Notice of Redemption of Improvement
Bonds
Notice Is hereby given that Im
provement Bonds Nos 264. to 287,
j both inclusive, of the city of Ashland,
1 Oregon, will be taken up and can-
celled by said city on the first day
on 8ame on and atter 8ald date'
Holders of bonds will present same
at this office for payment.
C. H. GILLETTE, Recorder.
The council finally got under way
at ten minutes of eight Tuesday
, night.
dred dollars a year and after careful
ly Investigating every phase of the
proposition, the city has decided to
take It up. The necessary contract
with the Lumberman's Trust com
pany, the resolution calling the elec
tion and all necessary action was
taken by the council at Tuesday even
ing's meeting.
The trust company has agreed to
taking care or all the details and ex
penses of the deal except the elec
tion, which will cost the city about
$75.
The submission of the 5 per cent
offer of the trust company speaks
highly of the financial status of
Ashland :iih1 of conditions In general.
' Accompaning the contract which
binds the Lumberman's Trust com-
pany to fulfill their part of tho agree- lug's meeting voted to accept a prop
nient was a certified check for $"00 1 ositlon made by Superintendent Met
whlch will revert to the city should' calf of tho Shasta division of the
the company fall down on their end
i of the proposition.
Deal for Park
Avenue Land Closed
Councilman Banta stated that he
After the council as a committee of 1 thought the contract offered was ns
the whole had viewed the land on . liberal as could he expected, and
Park avenue for which negotiations j moved Itrt acceptance. Mr. Root
were opened last year by tho old thought that a clause should be In
council, the purchase was decided ad-. sorted binding the S. P. to pay the
visable. One thousand dollars had expenses of moUng the fountains
been pa:d down on the land, and four
thousand is to be paid. The land in
question extends from Park avenue,
on the west side of Ashland creek,
back from the street line to the base
of the hill with the exception of the
actual land occupied by the Park
aiage. The strip extends from the
bridge coiner up to the creamery
property.
The council at Tuesday's meeting
ordered the land graded, earth to be
taken from the hillside to fill it up
to a level with the street, rubbish re
moved and a general clean-up. In
the not distant future this avenue
will be either paved or macadamized
rnd turned from an alley into a drive
iJttyfeet wide which will make a
magnificent sweep of driveway along
the side of Chautauqua park and
leading up to the entrance to Lithia
park.
In time this drive is bound to be
come lined with summer shops, and
tne property bought by tne city is i
well worth the price.
Mrs. Martha Rapp
Passes
Away
Mrs. Martha Rapp, one of Ore
gon's pioneer women, died Wednes
day evening at the home of her son,
Fred Rapp, at Talent, at the age of
75 years. Mrs. Rapp came to Rogue
River Valley In 1S53 and lived in
Ashland until two years ago, when
she moved to her son's ranch. Her
son Fred is the only direct descend
ant. Mrs. Charles Christensen of
Ashland is her niece and cared for her
at the Rapp home on Onk street here
until her marriage. Evan Realties of
Klamath Falls is a brother of the de
ceased and will come over to attend
the funeral, which will be held at
Jacksonville.
Cast for Umpire
Is Enthusiastic
The first meeting of the cast for
"The Umpire," the musical comedy
which is to be Btaged by the Ashland
Commercial Club at the Vining The
atre on Al'rll 17, was hehl Tuesday
evening at the Commercial Club
rooms. The script of the play was
read over and enthusiastically re
ceived by the players. The music,
both solos and choruses, Is snappy
and full of "pep." The cast will meet
several times each week and are
throwing themselves!,' Into the work
with a spirit which promises the best
performance ever staged by amateurs
in Ashland.
About a dozen Ashlanders have re
cently secured employment In the
northern California and Klamath
county sawmills. Among the Ash
landers recently employed at Hilt
were W. N. Sullivan, J. W. .Jarvis,
Clarence Matthews and Jess Bennett.
Kenneth McWHllams and Neil Shlnn
are still In the Klamath wilds and
supposedly have landed positions.
Sewer Ordered on
Helman Street
The city council has ordered a
sewer put In In the Helman street
district. City Engineer Walker re
ported establishing the levels, and
the necessary notices will be posted
and the sewer installed Immediately.
Tho new l'ne v 1 1 1 be a six-Inch sewer
1,7.)0 feet long, starting 100 feet
south of the center of Ohio street on
Laurel, thence north on Laurel to I signs pointed toward a city whiclt
Olio, east on Ohio to Helman, north was a forest of barber poles, bulle
on Herman to a point 142 feet north j tin boards and swinging signs calling:
of Orange, east to a connection with i attention to every kind of business
the main Helman street sewer line. front blacksmithlng to real estating.
Lease for Fountain
Location Closed
The city council at Tuesday oven-
Southern Pacific regarding the lease
of the fountain location at the depot.
Ordinarily the Southern Pacific will
lease its property only from year to
year, but in this instance Ashland will
have a lease for five years, after
tth'ch the lease will be continued
from year, to year.
, should the present land be needed
, for a new depot. Mr. Ashcraft said
that he "guascd the city would be
more than willing to pay that expense
If the company would erect a $100,
000 station and hotel."
Buffalo Traveler
Says "Advertise"
W. Kappus of the Foster-Milburn
Company of Buffalo, N. Y., was a
visitor In the city the last of the
week and called at tho Tidings office
before leaving, to express himself re
garding what he found here. He
said: "I have travelled all over the
I Pnitnri .Qllit.ia nnrl lintm lim-at frtltnfl
any place tho equal of Ashland." His
complaint was that Ashland did not
advert'se what it had for tho tourist.
He said: "Throughout tho east and
west there arc dozens of litt'e cities
who cannot offer one-fourth of what
Ashland has to attract the tourists,
and yet they are entertaining thou
sands every year." Mr. Kappus spent
most of a day In Ashland park and
cvplorng the hillsides In the canyon
IUs parting remark was to the effect
that he surly envied the people who
had homes here, and could think of
nothing which he would like better
than to make his home in Ashland
when he found himself able to do so.
? FREE LECTURE
$
Prof. Alien Eaton of the Unl
? versity of Oregon will lecture $
on "Art" at the library tonight,
? Thursday. There will be no
charge of any kind. $
$ Mr. Eaton brings with him
a beautiful collection of pottery
which he will display. The lec- $
turo Is given under the auspices
of the C. S. L. S., and the pub-
lie Is cordially Invited to hear f
Mr. Eaton.
$
t Q $ $ 4 $ $
Urges Support of
Chamberlain Bill
i
In the matter of encouraging sup-
port of the Chamberlain land grant
bill, which provides that, In the dls -
position of the lands of the grant, 40
per cent of the proceeds shall go to
the school fund and 40 per cent to
the counties of Oregon, Judge F, L.
Ton Velle, for the county court of
Jackson county, Saturday, wired the
following message to the Oregon del
egation, house of representatives,
Washington, D. C:
"The . county court of Jackson ,
county urges the Oregon delegation
to use its utmost endeavor to secure
the passage of the Chamberlain land
grant bill and to protect the coun
ties in the matter of delinquent
taxes."
CUf Payne makes tables.
Why Is a Barber
Pole? Queries Council
Signs of all kinds, big signs, little
signs, fat signs and thin signs, oc
cupied the center of the stage for an
hour and ten minutes at council
meeting Tuesday night. The signs
weren't there In tho body but wore
present in spirit and pointed toward
different eventualities depending on
I the viewers viewpoint. To some the
The signs pointed toward a storm
at times, but finally after deciding to
allow barbers to pahit colored red-whlte-nnd-blue
stripes around poles
in front of their places of business
and deciding that the council had
power to say how thin or how thick,
how high or how brilliant a sign on
the sld?walk or nhovo the sldnwalk
may be, tho matter was dropped.
The racket st:iTte:l when a petition
asking thnt he bo permitted to havo
a billboard In front of his real estate
office, on the outer edge of the walk,
and lieh'nd an electric light polo, was
presented from E. E. rhlppg and
bucked up by a list of names of busi
nessmen of the vicinity who signed
a statement that it was their belief
that the board would not bo a nuis
ance. Mr. Banta favored granting
Mr. Phlpps' request. Mr. Ashcrnft
snoke against it. stating thnt if this
one was allowed soon every business
mnn In town would want one. Mr.
i Cornelius
echoed Mr. Apheraft's
Ideas. Mr. Root spoke of several In
stances such as steps projecting, bar
ber poles and signs, and asked, "if
Mr. Phlpps' request was not granted,
where would it stop."
Mr. Nininger said "If It will ho'
business any I say let 'em have all the
signs they want." and suggested let
ting them go to it until they all began,
I to kirk. Thfi mnvnr clnteil thnt tbh
was just what had enured tho pass
age of the ordinance now in effect.
Chief Porter stated that the harbor
pole mentioned had been pa'nted out
and that the other signs vhlch vio
lated the ordinances hnd been order
ed removed. The mayor stated that
in his estimate the two conditions to
be decided were: a matter of sight
liness, and tho right of people to
! have the unobstructed use of the
sidewalks. Tlio mayor also outlined
some intorestin; history end family
I antecedents of the wi'lch sign In
i front of his jewelry stole and of
other signs around town.
Fimil'y Mr. Thintn produced the
sign post'ng and bil'lioard ordinance)
and the recorder rend it. Tho ordin
ance seemed to leave such matters
to a great extent In tho hands of the
council.
Mr. Lamb got the floor and stated
that he believed in living up to a
contract and when the city had
granted permission to a man to put
a sign or tank on the sidewalk It
should stick to Its word regardless
of what the individual councilman
thought,
Mr. Banta spoke vehemently
agnlnst "such foolishness as painting
a barber pole white instead of striped
when the pole would bo there any
how." Mr. Banta stated that he (Md
(Continued on Pnge Elg"..t.)
Curbs and Gutters
On Upper Granite
Granite street from the end of life
pavement at Nutley street to the
Holly property Is to have curbs and
gutters Installed. Residents between
Nutley street and Strawberry Lnno
presented n petition to the city coun
cil, which was signed by all of the
property owners. George Holly and
Frank Jordan wished curb and gutter
put in front of their property, but the
j StiO-foot gap of property line betweon
jhad not been signed up. Tho council,
j however, ordered curb and gutter put
j in all along the street up as far as
I Mr. Holly's residence,
The city will establish grades anil
grade the street down on the upper
side to the necessary grade. Mr.
Root thought sufficient funds were
not avallablo to completely grade the
street, saying that a big fill would
have to be made to grade It to the
required forty-foot width. However,
the city will grade as much as possi
ble and establish the curb line. Gran
ite street la becoming one of the best
residence streets In the city, and the .
property on the upper side of tho
street opposite the park has gained
much In value In the past two years.
