79?
l'
... ... ... . . . ... ...... .... i.
j yj j j .j. .j, ,j. j ,j4 ,j, ,j,
; Till: LEDGKK Ii an adrcrtlsln
mrdlnm (list brings results. Onr
! rales nro consilient Kith clrcn J
! In! Ion. Hooks open to Inspection. !
I I I ! J I ! t I ! I4
- .-r -4- -c f -r r -v -4- -j- -4- -
.J. Vkcntncltr Thursday falrj I
I Friday fair and warmer. !
j j j j j j j j
"KKKLV XEPVBLIOAX-Uil.
M IL r PUBLIO LKIHlKK-ittl
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1010.
OiVJS: COPY-ONE CENT.
. -- w&Mis,
iV WbA E
IIUKAKIMI INTO MINT.
At last his niuno
In print appears!
IIo cut his corns
With rusty shears.
Youngstown Telegram.
SUFFItAOE LKAM'K MEETING.
The Mnson County Woman Suffrage
League will hold Its regular bl-month-ly
meeting Thursday at 2 p. m at the
Public Library. All Interested In the
cause of woman suffrage nro invited
and all officers and members of the
committees nro urged to bo present.
Plcnso be prompt.
ALICE LLOYD, President.
MAIL OltPERS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies nnd
liquors. Our prices nro right. Order
today. Poynls! IJros., Covington, Ky.
A district meeting of the agents of
tho Western '& Southern Lifo Insur
ance Company will be held here Fri
day In tho ofllco of Superintendent .T.
II. Hopkins, and will be addressed by
Superintendent of Agents Lewis
Stouts.
HIJYS COAL.
Mr. II. A. Carr, Jr., purchased prac
tically tho entire lot of coal contained
In tho eighteen cars which were
wrecked on tho C. & O. nt Sprlngdnlo
Inst Saturday.
MOTOKEI) TO POItTSMOUTlf.
Mr. and Mrs. C, M. Jones, Mrs. and
Miss Peddlcord and Mr. Pcrrlno
Owens motored to Portsmouth Mon
day in Mr. Owens' car.
"BIGMOOSH"
Ripley's Splendid Peace Ofliccr, Lauds
a Negro Bootlegger Yt'lio Was
Canned Out of This City.
(Itlplcy Ilec.)
John Lowls, colored, waB arrested
Saturday night, when found in the
barn of P. K. Iloyd with a sack, by
Night Policeman Mussinon. Lewis
struck nt "Utg Moosh" with a quart
whisky bottle, but the blow was ward
ed off nnd "Moosh" struck tho fellow
with his cano when ho pulled a case
knife aud a battle royal ensued. Lew
la was finally subdued and hauled to
jajl, "here Dr. Tyler sewed up tho
gashes in his head. On Monday Mayor
Williams gave him a workhouse sen
tence that will keep him there about
seven months. This fellow was run
out of Mnysvillc.
GENERAL HERRERA
DESERTSCARRANZA
AND LEADS TWO THOUSAND MEN
TO VILLA BAND WASHING
TON AUOUSED OVEH NEW
DEVELOPMENT.
Former Military Oorcrnor of Chllina
him Ileuoiinccs Ills Allegiance
To Head of He Facto (lor
eminent, nnd Joins Villa.
Harbeson Garage
Will Put Your Car in
Good Order For
Spring
Parts and Sup
plies Gars For Hire
GOODW
Fortified Tires :
FORTIFIED AGAINST
RSm-CaU by the No-Rlm-Cut feature.
Sleweatt by the "On-Air" cure.
LoMTrfU by many rubber tlvett.
IntMurtty by 126 braided plana wires.
Puncture and Skidding by tho double
thick AU-Weatber tread.
WE SQUAltE OUIt DEEDS TO OUR
WORDS
in tho selling of lumber. You'll find
that when wc say it is thoroughly
dried and seasoned that It Is so. You
will learn that when wo promise a de
liver yat a certain time the lumber
will bo on the job at that time or before.
The Mason Lumber Company
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
Phone 510.
A. A. McLaughlin. L. II. Uehan,
Columbus, N. M Mnrch 23. Gen
oral Luis Herrora, until "recently Car
ranzn military governor of Chlhun-
hun, has renounced Carrnnzn and an
nounced himself In favor of Villa tnk
Ing tho field In western Chihuahua
with 2,000 troops, according to re
liable information received hero.
The exact place at which General
Hcrrern's troops aro encamped was
not Indicated In tho mcssago which
reached Columbus from n source thnt
always has been found reliable. It Is
believed, however, that, tho troops,
most of whom recently constituted the
Carranza- garrison at Chihuahua City
are somewhere between San Pedro
and Chihuahua and nro preparing to
work north and wost toward tho Am
orican punitive expedition In the field
1 under General Pershing.
Tho sentiment of the people In this
district which lies nbout seventy
miles directly cast of the Guerrero re
glon In which Villa began his days as
an outlaw, is strongly In favor of tho
bandit chieftain. Ills success against
Porflrio Diaz for eight years during
all of which tlmo there was a price on
his head, due to loyalty of the peons,
Army officials beliovo that Hcrrcra
and his command will havo every pos
slblo co-operation from the people of
tho district.
Tho reports make an important de
velopment in the American campaign
to capturo Villa, according to oxperl
enced observers of Mexican military
affairs. It is pointed out that the rc
ported renunciation of tho Carranza
standard by Horrera Is the first to be
made by an Important military leader
of tho do facto government since the
American troops crossed the Interna
tional line.
The possible effect on other Car
ranza leaders who havo been reported
to bo wavering In their loyalty to tho
government "first chief was food for
much discussion.
No reports were received as to tho
arms and equipment of the Herrern
command.
General Hcrrcra was military gov
ernor of Chihuahua at tho tlmo of the
massacre of eighteen foreigners nt
Santa Ysasel.
HI
IHMMMIg
a
iDl
II 1UYY1UK 1 3
g Will Be Here, Just As Soon As 3
: the Sun Shines Hot
J so, be ready, farmers, to take advantage
of the first pretty days. We are ready
tor you, with a splendid line ot rlovvs, both
Oliver and Sycrause, Points, Handles,
Shares, Mouldboards, etc. Jus,t phone us
your wants.
If you ueed a good Rake, Hoe, Mat
tock, Ax, Fork, or, in fact, any tool needed
on the farm, just tell it to us. We have
good "ones in stock, at the right prices.
Just received, a shipment of the neat
est Wheelbarrows you ever saw. Need
one?
Yours, for good Plowing Weather,
soon.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MW
In
LOWEST PRICES OF THF YEAR
4 eai good Cora only ti cents 4 cans best Lje Hominy only. 25 cents
4 eau best Tawpkia only. . 25 eeats S mas good Tomatoes mly...2S eats
These goods are worth more at wholesale cost We do not want to carry
any overt
Undisguised Apprehension Expressed
In Washington.
Washington, March 23. Grave an
prehension regarding tho outcome of
the American expedition Into Mexico
in pursuit of Villa was evident for the
first tlmo In Washington last nlcht
after receipt by tho War Department
of a dispatch from General 'Funston
saying that u report had reached him
that 2,000 Carranza troops ot Chlhua
hua under General Luis Horrera had
rovolted and aligned themselves with
tho bandit chief.
General Kunston did not disclose
tho sourco of his Information, nnd so
far as could bo learned, no confirmn
tlon had reached tho Stato Depart
mcnt or the Mexican embassy.
Fear that the roport might bo true
was not disguised In official circles,
however, and last night's develop
ments were nwaltcd with tonso anxiety.
TOBACCOMARKET
Sales On Jfarsvlllo Loose Leaf Floors
Ah Reported Ily the Various
Warehouses.
Liberty.
Pounds sold 12,870
High prlco , $23.00
LOW prlco SflKf)
Arcrago $10.01
Independent.
Pounds sold 7,275
High prlco 124.00
Low prlco $5.00
Average 115,13
Special Ed Davis, Brown county.
Home.
Pounds sold 16,715
High prlco r S30.00
Low prlco , 13,60
Averago SH.41
Special Campbell & King, Drown
county, 124.46; Stovcnson & Concan
non, Mason county, 114.72.
Tho high winds of Wednesday dam
aged the large billboard opposite
Dank atreet ou .Cast Second. In the
Pffth Ward. H
miATII OP SHIP CAIIIMINTIMI.
SI'ltl'MSK PAItTV.
Mr. lllrnm Taylor died Friday eve
ning at his home nenr Lovanna, after
n long Illness of heart trouble, nged
C9 years. IIo wbb n well known boat
carpenter. The funoral was hold nt
1:30 o'clock nt his late homo Sunday,
under nusplccs of Uimnrtlno Lodgo
N'o. 118, I. O. O. K of Itlploy. Hov.
J. J. Colo preached tho funoral ser
mon, nurlal in l'lsgnh cemetery.
Tho high winds of Wednesday enme
nenr causing tho H. A. Carr Coal Com
pany to lose several loaded barges of
coal. They got away from tho land
ing and blow out Into tho river, and It
was with tho most strenuous efforts
thnt they woro finally landed safoly.
Mrs. I. 11. Orlinth and Mrs. Hugh
Uwwlll, both of Indianapolis, Ind.,
nro hero, called by tho Ecrlous Illness
of their father, Col. Isaac M. Lane.
East Second street, between Com
merce and Poplar, was greatly Im
proved Wodnesdny by n cartload of
rock being spread nt a few places.
Mr. I. M. Lane, who tins been se
riously III with pneumonia at his
homo on Kast Second street, was re
ported some better this morning.
A number of tho frlonds of Mrs.
John Fnnslor on Inst Tucsdny ovenlng
gathered at her homo on Forest nvc
nuo, tho occasion being tho nnnlvcr
sary of Mrs. FnnsIor'H birthday. Cards
nnd dancing were enjoyed. Tho host-
icss was tho recipient of ninny benutl
'ful presents. At 12 o'clock n delight
ful luncheon was served, nfter which
the guests departed, wishing Mrs.
Fnnslor many happy returns of the
day.
PltAYL'lt JIEL'TINO.
BID RIVER
Ohio nnd Tributaries Aliove On Sprint;
Itmupnge, lining Considerable
Ilainaitc, Hut Xot Likely To
Iteaeh Flood Stage Here.
Pittsburg. Mnrch 23. Klvcrs In
western Pennsylvnnia nnd WcBt Vir
ginin continued to rise last night ow
ing to hcav rains and melting snows
during the last few days. Heports
from points In northern West Vir
ginia said that rail nnd wire commu
nications wore badly Impaired by
land slides nnd swollen streams and
tralim were running behind schedule.
N'o loss of life was reported. The loss
at Uniontown. Pa., is estimated at
$20,000.
Itcgular weekly prayer meeting
servlco this evening nt 7 o'clock nt tho
Third Street M. 13. church will bo led
by tho pastor, Itov. .1. M. Literal. A
Christian weloccm awaits you. The
choir will practlco Immediately fol
lowing this meeting.
XOTICI2 TO PASTOHS AND CUUltCII
CLEKKS.
All announcements for Sunday serv
ices must bo In this ofllco by 12 o'clock
tomorrow to lnsuro Insertion.
If you aro In tho market for a gas
range do not overlook tho fact that wo
have some very atractlve bargains,
George H. Traxol, west door SI
Charles Hotel, West Front street.
g Monarch Coffee!
Has no equal in Maysville. Satisfaction our jj
guarantee. 35c per pound, 3 pounds for $1. J
Try a pound today.
: Dinger Bras.,
1D7 W. Second St. k
Phuna 2D.
N
SMAItT AMI ATTHACTIVi: NEW
WALLPAl'EH li:S10XS AT II EN'-HIUCKSO.YS.
Seventy nrrests for bootlegging
whisky havo been made In Huntlng-
, ton sinco January 1
5
a frcsh'stock of all rubber necessaries. No old stock.
5 Se'e our line of Hot Water Bottles, Fountain
Syringes, etc.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
at tuc rnoMCD"
All tho latest patterns In wallpaper Mrs.C M. Dcvore of Sharon, was
nt CltANEi & SIIAFEU'S. shopping In this city Wednesday,
The Scioto at Columbus reached
within six feet of a record stage and
beenme stationary, while the Muskin-
1711111 Illlfl U'n Tfnnniclnin .11.1 1 .1
ablo damage.
It Is not thought that a flood stage
will be reached here, but thoro will
bo n big river. i
THE HDME DF QUALITY CLDTHE5
YOUNG MAN
Now Is the Time to Buy the New
Spring Suit!
You read the newspapers, don't yon?
Then you know, without our telllnir you, thnt woolen fabrics arc getting higher, dyes arc setting scarc
er nnd everything else that enters into the makeup of clothing, even to the linen thread with which the
buttons nre sewed on, Is ndtunrlug In price.
Tlic suits net offer now were contracted for when conditions were less stringent. A good stilt bought
here now need cost you no more than the sniuo stilt would have cost you a year ngo.
As fur as style goes, our suits nro better thnn ever nnd we nre showing n greater Tarlety than In nny
previous season. ' , t
Come In nnd see what $10 to $80 will buy.
3Q. jj
No War Prices on Silks at Hunt's
Have you examined tho quality of our Creoo do Chines at $1 10? Of our Uadltim Silks nt SI L'3? livery condition of tho silk market
would justify higher prices. These silks were dyed while the beat Imported colors wero still obtainable, consequently they havo tho luster
nnd exquisite shades such dyes only can produce
There Is a wldo range of colors. Including white, Ivory and black. These silks aro 40 Inches wide, full weight, very Hupple, and cxtremoly.
rich In appearance. Positively no silks of like quality will bo obtnlnablo at the price after theso aro sold. It Is an economic opportunity no
woman can afford to neglect.
The New Rugs For $15.00
From a manufacturer whose rugs rank with tho best nindo iti America; woven ot puro wools and worsted with close, heavy pile. Tho pat
terns aro splendid Oriental styles; bold medallion figures and neat nllovcr effects, perfect In overy way. Seamless of course. Itoom size.
Largo assortment.
For the Woman Whose Suit Price Is $25.00
Wo have a stock it will pay her to see. Wo Invito very caroful comparison ot theso suits with others at tho samo prlco. If you will com
pare tho fabrics, tho workmanship, tho finish and tho stylo, remembering that our suits aro absolutely all-wool, tho decislou will be In our
favor. Wo know It. And in knowing it wo havo no hesitancy In saying so squarely.
Our prlco this week for buttcrfnt,
37 conts, Maysville.
MAYSV1LLR MODEL CUEAMKUY.
Mrs. Montgomery Hunter ot Louis
ville, Is visiting Dr. nnd Mrs. Edwin
MatthowB of East Third street.
Our new Spring wallpapers aro
ready for your Inspection. Como In.
CflANE & SHAFER.
Miss Florenco Rogers of Sutton
street, is visiting relatives and friends
nt Indianapolis.
Saturday Will Be Red Letter Day
Double Stamps! Double Stamps!
It is a good day to buy anything you need in dry goods because goods are going
higher and higher. We cannot duplicate lots of goods at the prices we are selling same.
See the new premiums.
SUITS, COATS, DKKSSUS, SKIMS A complete assortment to
suit any stylo, la all tho desired colors. You will find what you uro
looking for In this department.
MILL1NEUY Tho ladles who know styles will bo found wearing
our hats this Spring. Wo aro showing at $3.98 hats that aro wonderful
values.
.Sl'KCIAL 500 yards ot crash to go ut 10c.
you will mnko a good Investment
Iluy all you need;
IlUdS, CAItl'KTS, 3IATTIXO.S, LIMOLEOIS, OIL CLOTHS-lf
you will comparo our prices nud qualities you will como back a-llylng
SHOUS AX1) OXFOltnS They are here. A stylo for every foot
11 lacks, dreys, Whites.
"FLUXO" l'KTTICOATS-Fnncy and plain, no hooks to bulge, no
olastlo to rot. 1.E0; worth $2.00.
WOMEN'S IHUVIM1 OLOYESMado of Duck skin; slightly Im
perfect. G9c; worth $1.00.
"1IEL HON" COLD CKE.VJT Mado for tho theatrical trado to sell
nt $1.00. The company had to soil out becauso they did not Lava
enough money to advortiso it A full 4-oz, jar for 25c
