VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 191G.
NUMBER 39.
HUMUS GAIN 01
0fiEFO0LDIf
rnmn nr urnniiii
tbiun untnuuH
'nnltirn 1 fill nf ITriiicmri'1 . .Iitsl ,
Outside ihc Village of Malan-,
court Elsewhere French Re
sist Attacks.
CTiVlTY U RUSSIAN FRONT
i i . .-,1. r. ,1.
ciimiiis t. lumi success in toiut-
west. but Czar's Troops Take
Trenches and Capture a Town
in Persia No Results on
London. M:tii 22 ir.fa 'ii." :itt.iiK
J.nrtiiwest !; nl.m, jit f -rilcrt .y n
! boiv.baldiuci.t. have i,:iljti'il the
c ma is Id .-all foothold cm tin- small
1' ! nf Hum ,titt. Just u'M ili i ln village
Miil.'uiruii t iiinl Itrtw ecu Hint town
i tile eastern tdiu nf ilia JVInncnnii
w i t K i
I lie entire s 'or of about two nnd a
1 f inlks fiom 1 1 1 Avocourt wood In
Mil.incouit has In on siiliiocfcd to a
lent arn'lrr humbai dtnent and snv
ns' Gorman 'tifntitrv attacks. Inn except
ll llio Ininicdlat, ltinity of Malancoui t
the Germans wrro held by the French
lirurler lire anil were unable in ailvauce.
N'nrthe.is' uf Veidun. ill iiiiml Donati.
muni ami V.-iux, an intense artillery hum.
I .uilment is still m niomess. The Infantry
filers, however, have lemalneil inactive
II 'his district
I'rom tlie west. In Hie fnret nf the
Atgonne. the French aie heavily shell.
I 'g the Mnlaneoiirt wood, which is In
t'le Ii.'iimIs nf the Gorman, anil at vnil
fins points in the forest have bombarded
Geimaii or":itil:iil,,tii.- eCt.,.iiw. ni
rour Dc Taris. I.a I Mile .Mnrte anil
Mont Fnucon
The Russian offensive against the
Germans In northwest R.iirsI.i bus in
creased in intensity, anil fighting Is In
progress flay ami night. The latest i.rti-
ial statement from Russian general
lie.nrlflllnrlrrc J.nV IllMt ilnunnriln (..r....
lighting Is proceeding north of the
town of Pnstay, when- the Germans
l.iinirlied violent eounter attacks in an
trrr'hns T. llfel, Mini- l.n,l nt-rtvlr,inl- e-in.
1 ned Rcspcrtlns this operation the
Tleilln rommnnlcitlmi says I hat at this
I ' mi- l.uM.til nt'llfeo Ilieir Heav
iest ni nrK Hil l l ie r osses te u-i eii e-
tmord naillv t ip'i figures, own for the
I mber of fins lans in action."
T le Russians .'uptuied three lines of
I' i Herman iiruehes on Ihe southwest-
fume of Lake Naiocz. where, it i
..I allv .Ir.r i-n.l lhn ni.i...., II.
ve oping in favor of the Russian forces,
llcie t'le Russians, ilesplte "asphyxiat
lie sases and a murderous fire." forcul
fieri lines of wire entanglements and
made their gain in a srilo.- of fierce
band -to. hand encounlers.
The Russian war olfkr also officially
nnnoiinccs the caplnie of Ispahan in
I'eisla after an engagement. An unoffi
ital report leceivrd liv way of Rome
and London says that the Austrians
liave ahandiiuetl Szernowitz, capital of
Jiukowina.
Marl weatber asain has broKen over
Ibe Austro-ltallan front, but It has not
ji lt a stop lo the violent bombardments.
The AiiFtrians have delivered !?urpri'-ti
nt'neks with Infantry against Italla.ii
'losltloiiH nt vailous Jinlnts, but these,
a tordins to Rome, have everywheie
been l epnlse I.
METHODISTS EXPRESS
SYMPATHY FOR WILSON
freksklll N Y., March 22 A resolu
tion pledging "sympathy, prayer, ronll
dence and loyalty" to President Yv'ilson,
"himself a man of prayer who Is now
under heavv burdens and Is confronted
tie problem of world-wide 'import."
was adopted to-day at tho opening fces
slon here of the New York conference
of the Methodist Rpiscopal Church,
There was considerable "fencing" over
the resolution. When it was offeror! a
motion to icfer it to tho coniniltteo on
fitate nnd country, headed by Chancellor
James R lav of Syracuse University
was voted down by u small majority,
'I'lieie was much discussion of iinullipr
motion to refer the resolution to a spo
( Ial cominittep, also headed by Chan
i ellor nay. and tt was finally decided to
tabic the resolution. Later in tho rest-ion
it was again taken up and passed
In open conference.
10,000 Women to March.
New York, Mnrch 11. What Is ex
pected to be tho biggest suffrage par
.win this country has vi(r seen is b
log nnanged by tho National American
'Woman Suffrago association, head
quarters 171 Madison avenue, Mis. Car
no Chapman Catt, president. It will
be in Chicago Juno .", at the time of
l hi republican con volition, it Is hoped
to have 10,0'Ki women In line, mhiiii
from every State, and .If possible, from
. verv ruiiRTPSslonnl district In the
i an ii try.
A "walkleas parade" will bo held for
tho benefit of tho delegatoH to the
emocratlc convention, which opens In
St Louis on Juno 11. Gteat numbers
of women will pathor from all parts
of the country: tlmy will wear white
cowns, tlm suf fraiio colors, and carry
liiinuerr, and nuffriit;o nlogans. Thoy
will not ma roll, but will stand outsldo
Hir convention lin.II to Impress tho
iiulegates with the ureal numbers of
women wli? wish tho vote.
V. bun a bousewlfi roni";; .. understand
ln.i buying for tho hoino li- a vnv im
jior ant "buMnoH inn'tnr, ' - rmllo nut-
liiai'v (levriloiu a UM'ly lli'iicit In tho
wave apprehension
vyx' n jlj v
Washington Hoars That 2,000 Carranza Troops at
Chihuahua under General Herrera Have Re
volted and Gone Over to Villa Feared That
Others May Follow Their Example -Deserting"
Soldiers Are Best Equipped in Northern
Mexico General Rebellion of De Facto
Forces Would Place U. S. Expedition in Peril.
W.mhifKtof, Mur-h 22. Cltave ap.
prehension rcKardinc the outcome uf
i, Ameriran i .p,..lit ion Into Melc t
.it pursuit ;t vain u m evident for the
ili.u time in Washington tn-iiit;lit nf
t r receipt by the war department nf a
'.iesputcb from i.-nor,il runslon i-mihb
ii leport bud reiichcd hl:n Hint ,
CaiTi,n:;a tiooiis at flilliiiahua nnib-i-Orneral
Tails llerrem had reoltiil
and allsncd theniselves wifi the ban
riit chief.
Oencial Ktiiihtiiri did not diselon. the
Foureo of lii-j infonnHtlon, and. so fur
US COUld be barncd. I'll coiillininllon
Ini'J roaubed the sitati- il. imiii
lliu M,exlcan mb-issy. ;.',.;lr n,.,t the!
icpori liiisiit 'ic ti'ie win, not dlmuised
In nfflci'il cir'lcs. however, and to
nlKht develotir.icntK n-i'.'u -iw.-ntiid with
tense anxiety.
If Herrera and h-s trooii'. have iolned
Villa, some officials believe, other far-'
ranz.i commandors and Hoops ma
ipiichiy iiinmv their example. In such
an event tlie United States and de facto
Koveinment of Mexico would find them
telves confronted with a -.11111111011 so
serious Hint Its po-sibilltles hurilly could
be estimated. A Ihirij p.ut of the forces
of the dc fin to government n, uoilliiin
Mexico formerly weie Villa soldiers and
with their nfficeis. hiive followed liie
bandit chieftain to many hard fouclit
victories.
The troops under lleneia ,no described
liere as lieins- probably the l)est eipilp
ped in 111.11 them Mexico, and they are
s.ihl to be well supplied vvllh ammuni
tion I. ins lleriera nt one lime was ope
of 'lllri'r, most acllve aides, as was bis
brother, Maclovin, who now is believed
to be operating In Hie Stale of I'oahtilla
with a. considerable force, ltuinois con
rcnitns Hie doubtful Inleptlons of the
Arriein Inothrjis, leadlnsr a force In
Iui.mo, also have tended to Im're.ise
illsnnlet here.
Rebellion In t'arinnza's army would
render the position of the Ann.1! lean ex-
peintionaiy rorco so perilous that evei y , Ci e of :i 1 otitine natui e.
iivailablo soldier would be rushed In j J.ate to-nluht ( '.enei al l'unstoii rrioiled
lo relufoiee tlie advnncini; columns. For 'to the war department that an lnvesilf;a.
this purpose not more than about i:.nO 1 1 tinti proved Hide was no truth In a ie
nieu would be available without ciilllnc port tliat I'T army motor buries had been
out the national cuard. There nre now , found ::n miles off Hie line of march In
on the liouler or In .Mexico about 2.",(Vi j norlliei 11 Mexico and that Ihclr drivers
soldieis and in Ibe whole of the eontl-, vi ere missing.
nciita! 1,'nited Slates, the other mobile in Consrcsr to-day Senator Sherman
fones number only a little mole than lot Illinois, 1 epublicaii, inuodured a ieso
!,""" I lution to nuthririze the I'lesldent to issue
All teports fiom the border were sentiii call for r.ij.Oo volunteers to be used In
to the White lloiife to-niuht and wcin ! the service in Mexico. The revolution was
th" subiect of a lonsr conference be-1 placed 011 the table to be called up later.
S55.QQQ HOLSTEIN
FRIES!
AT BRATTLEBORO
llrattleboro, March -The llolsteln-
l''lieslan Association of America has lie- i
copied tho offer ot A. 1! Clapp to build
a modern llreproof building to cost no '
moie than fCiV" and lease It to tho asso- i
elation of ln per cent, of thceost. The prop
el ly on which tho building is t" 'be erpct-
ed this year Mr. clapp recently bought
ot K. li. Stewart of Loydcn, Mass. It is
it Hip corner of IMain and South Alain
stieets. Mr. Cnpp wishes to buy the lot
r... t, .,. .li fi men I n n nnr Ml nt. '
South .Main stieet next In the irar
of his new propnrt and a special priv
ilege has been called for April 1.
GETS VERDICT OF $200.
Iliick llenl IXnle Co. Winn Suit ngnlnsl
.1. M. Ilriidlcy nml llnrlon Hank.
SI. Albans, March 22. Tho case of the
Ruck Real Estate company vs. John W.
Rradlcy and tho Hartnn Savings Hank
fk Trust company went to tlie Jury in
Franklin county court shortly after noon
to-day. The Jury found for tlie value
of tho services specified, without respect
to tho contract as claimed by cither
paity, and returned a general verdict for
tho plaintiff to recover $J'V) based upon
what they considered the seivlcps ip.'i
souably worth, without any express con
tract. This afternoon at two o'clock thp case
of Mrs. Ll.zle. Sullivan, admix, of John
'I'. Sullivan's estate, vs. Hie Traveleis'
Insurance company of Hartford, Conn.,
was taken up. Tho casn was settled tills
afternoon and the Jury called for to
innnow morning will probably be dis
charged, WAPANACKI TROUT CLUB.
llnrtlvvlck -Men Incorporate nml
Will
llullil lull limine.
Montpellrr, March Si. -The Lake
"Wapanackl Trout club. Inc., of Hard
wick luus lilcd articles of association with
Uio sccietary nf state, having capita!
stock of $.".i00 divided Into ICO .shares. It
Is tho purpose of tho club lo maintain a
lish and game pruFervo In the towns of
Wolcott and llardvvlck anil to erect a
club lioiisn for members, The Incorporn
fots ale W 11 Tnvlor IT M, Crane
James A Gallnghhy. L.tr' R tt e. h
Kl.lill, 1 Ta I" Clinics T i'Ii 1 v mid
McUJu X. Uuise, tOi yf Kaianieli,
jujusi ljl kj iv
twerr.
Maker
lo til 11;.
"Vsidrid limn and Secretary
Aflcrwai.1 Mr r.iik-i de lined
lXoie Hie riinton lepmt arrived
1 'oiuisellor 'oik of thr. ,late di p.irtmenl 1
and Kllsen Arieiiondo, the .Mexican am-'
la-iador deslpnate, liad complctnl the'
lr.if: of the piolocol asked for by ''en-1
cr.il (.'an np.a In Kovem the opei.itlons
of Hie Aineilcan foice In Mexico and
proV le foi operation by the troops
of the de facto Koveinment Mr. Arre-j
doudo dispatched it to fleneral Carraira
Willi the lei ominendatlriii that It be ap-l
piovcd. It is to become elfccllve Itnnie
dlalely upon liehiK signed.
State department olliclals Insisted dur
ing the day that all their repents from
liie Interior of Mexico and from tlie bor
i.'cr rdiowed tliat 'onditlous Keueially
were ipilet, niid despati lies from many
; olnts weie made public to su--taiu their
statements.
Soon after, however, the despatch fr en
Uencial I'unston win leceivrd and then
It became known that the navy depart
ment had not he-inl from the Kimbnat
.Mad ias, stationed off Taiuplco, sliue
vesterday afternoon. The Machlas, It was
said, should have 1 . 1 1 r 1 1 d to-dav, but
up lo a late hour to-nluht no message
liad come irom her lonimauder lo mir
In m nr deny rumors that the sailboat had
taken aboatd for piotectlon foi cIsihth at
Tainiiico.
The navy depaitment allowed it lo be
come known that the battleship Kentucky,
once ordered to Mexican wateia from
New Oilcans .,, then dlveiteil to
tlalvcslon, asiilu liad been ordered to
proceed southward and to cruise off the
Mexican coast In tlie vicinity of Tninpkn.
When the Kentucky was rllvortcd it. was
said that it had dnvehipcd lhre Was
110 need of an additional warship.
The war department made ptihllc no
Information cnucerninir the movements
of Hie expedition In Mexico. It was said
that several dospauhes had been received
from Cieiieriil pcrshlhK In command of
tlie American troopers, but that they all
IDEA OF RETURN
Yuan Shi Kai Rejects the EllV
pcrorship and Will Return
to the Presidency.
Peking, March 22. A state depaitment
mandate issued to-night announces tlie
abandonment of the monarchy and re
sumption of the republic
The mandate says the involution shows
that the demand for a monarclilal form
of government is not unanimous pud that
therefore Yuan Sill Kul rejects the Em
perorship and resumes the presidency.
The Imperial documents, the mandate
adds, will be returned by Yuan Shi Kal
to the state council which will reconvene
ns tlie Senate, prepanitory to the resump
tion of the republic.
llsu Slilh Chang, who left the cabinet
because of the monarchical movement,
signed the mandate as secretary of state.
having le-enlered Hip cabinet
WORLD'S CHKSR RIvCORI).
Waslilngton, Maicli 2i.- What chess px
pelts hPie to-day declared to be two new
woild's records vvem pstiibllslipd by
I'liink J. Marshall of New York, chess
champion of the I'nlted Slates, w hen ho
met KG local playeis In a simultaneous
exhibition at the National press club last
night. His new minks are for tho nuin
1ier of games plaved slniiiltnueoiislv and
tho number of games won. .Marshall
won Si, lost S ami diew 1.7. Tlie pievlous
world's lecord was made in 1011 at Mu
nidi by II. Fnhrni, a German, who played
1i simultaneous games, won "j, drew 23
and lost six,
ITALY HE-AFFIRMS HER
PACT WITH ALLIES
Rome, via Pails, Munii 22. Answering
.i question In tlie Chamber ot Deputies
concerning the pledges made by Italy to
her allies tlie under-secretary of stato
for foreign affairs said Italy was adhering
to tho Loudon convention concerning I lie
iiiieeindit of her allies not to make a
sepuiatn peacn nnd that slio also hail
n.'ccptcil all tho oilier conilltloiiH ngieed
on by thu entente powers, Includliu,' llio
restoration of llclb'luin.,
GRIN A ABANDONS
TO A MONARCHY
NO DEFINITE NEWS
FROM PERSIC'S
F
Plenty of Disquieting Rumors
ORGES IN BO
l?r..i.lv Umrloi- Tlmv'Kviu- -iw ll"',.v. I" Mbldlibili y, wneiu the fu-
KC.lt 11 HOKICI, I10UIM1, .lh I0nr. ,,,, ,..,.,. ,.,,, af,,.
Censorship Extended to Com
mercial Wires.
HEflHERA'S BROTHER ARRESTED
100,000 CartridRcs Cross into
Mexico for Carranza Street
Service at Juarez Stopped
Censorship Extended to News
Despatches on Commercial W
Laredo, Tex., Maich One bundled
thousand tartrliltte- iiossed Into Mexico
last nlslit lliroiiKh this port for the t.'.ir
liinza rov el nun nt, It was announced here
lo-day. A siiuadiou of the 'I'hlid cavalry
will leav'u early to-momivv for l'ort
IliimRold.
Leavenworlb, Ivans., March JJ The
second squadron of the. J'"lfth cavalry,
station. 1 heie, ciitiaincd lo-da.v for tho
Mexkan bolder.
HI l'aso. Mareh Macaido Hcrtcra.
biother of Luis lleriera, was arrested
heie to-night by Captain Hall ot tlie city
police. Captain Hall said he ai rested
Herrera after Hie Mcxlcm liad nliiined
from a two hours' conference, with Gen
eral (.J.iviia at Juarez. He refused to
make any fuitlier statement in conncc
lion with the aireM.
101 l'aso, Mai ch -"-".The slicct (ills be
tween i:i l'aso and Juarez were ordered
sloped to-nlzht at I':,1'i p. m. No explana
tion was Kiven by the company for the
order.
It was learned later that tho street
ars had been stopped on thu recom
mendation ot the military authoiilies.
The manager ot the sti,-et car company
said tli.it the rrew. were setting nervous
and that lip did not care to take, any
risks, although lie knew of no actua'
trouble.
Ll r.io Texas, March 2J Rrlc.-i li n
George Hell, Jr., to-night extended the
censorship to news despatches sent over
commercial wires out of I'.l Paso, which
he said were of an "Incendiary ehai ac
tor." General Hell said lie did not Intend to
have Information of "pi eparatinns" lie
was making given out in sdvance of
Ihclr execution. Tlie general added he
was investigating lcports that the Car
rann garrison at Juatez, nerois Ihe
liver fiom Ll l'aso, had deserted to the
Villa cause.
Sau Antonio. Texas, March 21, General
f'unstoii said to-night he had been In
foinied of llcrrrrn's leporled tevolt and
i hat while there was lacking confirma
tion he had taken precautionary stpps
tow aid meeting any ngsreslou along
the border.
1TI Taso. Texas, March 22 The silence
which for two days has enveloped the
Mexican situation as far as any definite
news of tlie pursuit of Francisco Villa
Is concerned gave fresh force to-day to
numerous repot ts from vnrloiis sources
nf grave disaffection among tho Car
lanza troops.
Since yesterday morning General
! Gavira al Juarez bus claimed that Ihe
wires along the Mexican Northwestern
railroad between .ItuileZ and Casus
Grandpa have been cut and that conse
quently be could give no Information in j
regard to the leporled battle at Naml-I
qulpa between the Carranza and Villa I
forces. Americans hole, especially refu- I
gees fiom Mexico, aie frankly skeptical
both ns to the reported battle nnd tho
cut wit ps They point out that sev
ered communication Is one of the most
familiar ruses used by Mexican officials
when they vvlsb to withhold information
and that II Is trnge that Ihe wires
to Casas Grandes, a distance of only
1"1 miles, along a railroad, could not
lie lepalred In two days' time.
Whatever Is the real situation In
that part of Chlhiuhus, where Ameri
cans, Carranza and Villa followers are
operating, the main Interest here lies
In the railroad situation, Lven before
tlie American government requested
General Carranza to permit tlie use of
tlie Mexican railroads for tlm trans
portation of supplies, rumors had
reached here that General Funston w:i3
experiencing serious difficulties In fol
wardlug them to General Pershing's
columns. These rumor? have reached
the stage now where they may bo
classed as definite information.
Arrivals from Coluinoiis to-dav report
ed that Hie transportation service acros-.
tho deseit was being badly hampered by
a sand storm. Theio nre no r.iadH except
those which tlie American engineers have
been able to improvise and tlieso are said
to be cut to pieces bv the heavy ttansport
wagons.
An American mining man who has lived
2,-. vphi-h In Chihuahua rieeliud to. day
that it would bo little less than a miracle
If the Aineilcan army stuff was able to
send tho needed supplies for the men in
Hie Held a (Usance of 2M nlles for any
period of time.
That General Funston Is fully alive lo
this situation Is evidenced by the claim
rate arrangements being made lino for
using Dm Mexican Northwestern inllroad
and IfCniiaiiza k'rauts the needed pormls.
sion, rondnctoi. engineers, III emeu ami
biakPiiirn. mosi of whom have seen serv
ice mi the Mexican Nationa1 railvvavs
will be pressed Into set vice. All (hp equip,
mpnt In the VA IM"" yatrls has lipe.ii In
spected a lid ennmerited and exact Infor
mutlon been obtained as to how many
trains inn b connled on with lull Amer
ican crows fur each.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
..... .Mtimt- '
lllUHILrjIH 111,
The-ienialns o' 1'iank 11. l'lper were
bioiiqlit hrie fi on 1 nit I lit on on Ihn
noon tf din Sniurday and Ukcli In thu
home of bin rlaiiL'liter. Mis. Kdward
noon at two o' loik. Mr. I'limr was taken
to the Mary Klebdier hospltiil a few
weeks a-jo suffelliiK with bloorl polsouins
In his left leg. On Tuesday tho leg was
amputated above Hie km.o and lie died
eiirlv Saturday nionilnj,'. at tho aso of
71 ycaif. lie is survived by two daiiKh-
teis. Mis. Kdward Day of Last Middle-
Imry and .Mis. lleiuy D.iy of Rlpton,
,-iiid a son. William I'iner of KasL Middle
bury. Mr. I'lper was a llfe-loiiR lesldent
of this town and w.m a flvll War
linvliii; eidl-leil whin bi.t Id jiats
in Company f. Till Vermont
vetci an
of .ICe
Volunteers, and servlui; tin otiKh tlie entire
wat. He was well known and had a host
of filinds who will mourn bis sudden
..ml Mr sliisnn i M.-iiiniters. who li.ts
; lived with Iter sister, Mis. Andrews, on
I Water street, was stricken with a .shock
about live o-' b" 1. Satuidiiy mornlnK,
from which she never ibcoVciciI, dylnK
altoni nine o'cloi k the same forenoon,
at the iiRo of 7.1 year.-:. Sho was thy widow
of Heiijamlu .Saunders and is survived
bj her sister, with w lioin she ll.d, and
a d.niuhter. Miss IMith Saunders ot
Saianae Lake, N. V MKu Annie Siiilivi.n
lias returned from llui Huston, where she
has been to visit her brother, Hanhl
Sulliv.ui.- Mis. Oeorne I. Mooie ami sis-
ter have ictiinied fioni Rutland, whcie
they weie called by the serious illness
of their fcisler. Mis 'irimes. who Is a
little better. The Rev. L. It. ('ray ot
Ibundon delivered the Lenten .eriiion at
St. Maiy's Chinch Sunday evenlnc, utter
which He re was In ii' illi tlon -Mr. and
Mis Claience Lddy of Rutland, form, r
lesidents, ate parents of a sou -Noble
lirooks has puicliased the Haiiisou
lloblen fai in just toulh ot tills village.
Mis. R. C. Iie.Mar of Last Ilurkshlio If
In town to visit her daiiKliler, Mrs. It. J.
Renfrew. lohn M. Nash, a for-
mer lesldent, hut for a few years
of St. Albans, will move heie about April
1 lie will make his home wiih Mis.
Nash's niotbei. Mis. Scrcpta Smith Mi..
Klc ta Sessions Is seriously 111 at her
home in the south part of lb" town. -
Kdward Ruins of this town ha- leceivert
news of the dentil of an Infant srand-
daiichter, the child ot .Mis. Thomn .1.
IIuKhes of I'lovideiice, R. 1. Ml" I lushes
was foimerly Mis-? Mamlp liurns of Mid-
rileliury. Mr. and Mis. Theophlle Villon
and thiee ihllilien of .Montreal aie visit-
Iiir in town Clayton 1'. Crane ha ilone
to Wateibtiry to spend few days at bis
home .1. P. lloyt has returned from
WhitliiK, wheio lie pre-nhed at the Con-
gresatlonal Cun ch l'i ed Hobbs has re
turno.1 from a few Uuys" visit In Whiting.
Guy C. Coolldge has koiic to Rutland
to visit at the home of Ills parents. Mr.
nnd Mrs. O. IT Coolldge Mr and Mrs.
l'hilllp Vassal! and son who have, been
visiting at tho home of his parents. Mr.
nnd Mrs. 1'iert Vnssnu of Seymour street
for the past few' woeks, have returned to
their home In Plttstleld. Mas- Mr and
Mrs P. J. rtrough have returned from a
beveral (lavs' visit with relatives In Rur-, was in Judco Unnownv's municipal court
llngton. Moiulav . market da.v, eggs Tuesday and pleaded guiltv to the charge
brought from 21 to J3 cents and butter i'iot keeping intoxicating liquor with intent
to ."! The Wnninu's Auxiliary of ihe V. j
M. A. held a well attended meeting at . (fimllniieil on pngp two)
DUTGH STEAMERS
WERE TORPEDOED
BY A DESTROYER
How Germany May Truthfully
Deny Presence of Subma
rines and Mines.
London. March 22 The sinking of the
P'ltch liners M'ulmntla nnd Paleiubang
Is still being given much attention in na
val (licles. The latest development Is ill
(lie form of a report fiom the captain ot
tho Palemliang to the admiralty which
states that his ship was struck fore and
aft by two torpedoes. He also expressed
the tellof that anoiher torpedo, which
failed to explode, hit amidships,
Tills report Is based on statements bv
the chief officer and boatswain who sworn
they saw the strrnk inndo by both toipe
does. Tho liner almost stopped when the
Ilrst warning of trouble canio in tlie form
of a blow amidships, tlm depositions
stnte, but an examination showed no
damage. A moment later tho forward
bulkhead blew tn, and tills was followed
almost Immediately by ail explosion a.'t.
Naval olllcers brio aie quoted as Muting
Hint the Germans may be quite correct
in their announcement that no German
mines or siibinailnes were at the time so
near the Hutch coast as the spot where
the Tub.intla went down, as they nr.'
convinced she was sunk b- a torpedo
Iln d by a German destroyer.' They refuse
o disclose any evidence which leads to
HiU i oiiiiuslon, but point out that the
lnit.il tanker Artemis was torpedoed hi
Hie same vicinity by a German torpedo
boat. Gerinanv later admitting nnd
apologizing fur the n.'t
TUBANTIA CARRIED
U. S. SECURITIES
Kllgllnh Theory I" That In Wly Her
mans TorHCdoeil VckxcI.
London, March 2.', S ID a. m One
theory as to why Gcnmny might torpedo
the Dutch steamer Tnbnntla, which was
sunk seveial days ago, accoidlug to an
article on Hi'' Times market pane Is Unit
Hie Tiibautia rallied a huge sum In
Gentian owned AmeiUan seciiillles. The
wilier aigues (hat as the lliitlsh would
have seized tlieso in the channel the only
way to rciiilo on Ihein wiih by sinking llio
ship. H would then bo possible to get
fltipUcatcs Issuod In Xiiw lorli.
tho home of Mr and Mrs. .lohn I. Weeks
Monday evenlnc. .1. N. Hiiish of Vei
Ke.nnes spoke. .Mis I'loreuce II. ljibly
nni koiic in niniann to spend a
i rillltlr. of vvee!l!l wllb her hrolber. flnt.
fnco II. Eddy. The LiiilluH' Mlsslonarv
i.oclety of the i onmecatlonal i Inn h
I'0''' n" ull-il.iy senlni; meeting In tin
vestry of the church Wednesda.v and a:
'"n u covenil dish tltnnci was mivio.
..Allen fobb has relumed fiom Huston.
wheio ho has been for two weeks.-Mr?.
lelbtirt Itrown of .Main street, who bit-
'em quite 111 for a few weeks, In slowly
recoveiliiK.
Tlf) annual nipcllnn of tlie Ad
'"-'"n foiinly row TestliiK i la-
tlois wi.t held Tuesday In thu offkn of
onnly AjJeiit .T. L. Carrlpin and there
was a frood attendance. The meeting w.c
'ailed to order by I'lesldent Harry L
nuut. after wlibli the secictnry read the
leports of both the secretary and treas-
,ir,,r' T1"' nrcnnlzatlon Is In 11 Rood i"U-
Hon. with a balance In the treasmy. The
followliie otrh ers weie i leitcd: I'rcsidenl,
Harry L. Hunt; vlcr-piesident. Casslus
Seeley; .neetelarv and Hen surer, 11. I..
Wriehf. Hiidltnr, riiarles .lewi tt. The
t'oard of riln'tor- incluile in Keri
.""! Wllllnm I'niteh. New members for.
"cxt years work will be sl I up all
"nee. Hollls Orlffin ot Cambtldso ha
I'een seemed ns teste:' for the comlne
car. Mr. and Mrs. H. I.. Sumner went,
.vesterday to Iturlinctoii. wheie .Mi ,
Sumner will be a patient at tile Mary
l'leteher hopltnl. lie has been sufrerlni.-
for some time with rheumatism and will
'emnlu there for a while for ttentmeiit
The I.adleb' Missionary society of the
' 'onsiccutlona! Cliurcli held an all-
llnv sewliiR meetlnc In the church vestry
x estonlay and lit noon a covei ed (llsli din-
' er vva.s ren-ed. The Norton Hrotbeis,
who purchased the ttenedlct crocpry store
in th" Rattell block two months npi, are
shipping the coods to New York Stale,
where they are to open a store Miss
Itnth Orosvpnor. a te.n h-r In the Last
J'ittsford school, is spendlns the sptlnc
vacation at her liomc hete.-Mrs. Royal
H. Rentley of Rutlniul. ft former lesldept
"c Mlrldlebury. Is vlslthn; filends heie-
William Taylor has moved to town with
bis family from Wliltlns nnd Intends to
Into business heie. Miss Ruth WrlKht,
who is recovering from a lone, severe ill-
ness with pnetimonln, Is so lar on towiiid
lecovery that she was able to walk nt
r'-"" while TuesdayThomas Mci'aulcy
eonfmed with an Injured loot, a he.iv
l'lec "r timber falllnir upon It while he
'a-s employed at the Dreen Mountain pulp
nvlll. Th toes of the left foot are quite
badly crushed. Klnier Wolrott has n..
lurned from HiirliiiKtou after visltiiiK
friends for a number of days L. L. Me.
Callaster, who has birn here for a short
lime on a buslne? visit, lias returned to
Hurlington Miss OpiimvIbvp Klmer, who
ha be,n 'IsltioK ,,t tlie home ot her
lather, Horace 1-Vlmer, for a week, has
leturneil to her school duties In I'oultney.
Mrs. Alice Ilnnrhelt of Sarnnur Luke,
N". Y., In nt the home of her aunt, Mrs.
..ndrows Mi s. Noah Wlssell, who ha"
been a patient nt the Funny Allen hos
pital for a fow wpeks, has returned
greatly Improved
refer l.avnlley of Rridpnit, whose home
was searched some In .lavs ago bv Dcp-
uty Sheriff 'N. J. Stanford and Chief of
Police George N. Chaffee ot this village,
WHEREABOUTS OF
CoMmbus, N M , March 22 -The exact
place at which General llcrrcra's troops
are encamped wai not Indicated in the
messago which reaihed Columbus Irom
a source, that alAays has bepn found
ipllable. It Is believed, however, that tlv
troops, most of whom recently constitute!
Hie Carranza garrison at chihuahua rttv
lo-niglit alv some place between San
Pedro and Chihuahua ami are preparing
to work nnitli and west toward tlie
American punitive expedition In the field
under Geneinl Peishlng.
Tho sentiment of the people In this dis
trict, which lies about seventy miles
directly east of the Guerrero region, in
which Villa becan his days as an outlaw.
Is strong in favor nf the bandit chief
tain. His success In withstanding Porflrio
Diaz's ruraloi eight yenrs, during alt of
which time there was a heavy pi Ice on
Ills head, was due to the lovulty or the
peons. Army men believe here Hint lleriera
nnd his command will have every possible
co-operation from the people of the dls
tllct. The report marks an Inipnitanl de
velopment In the American campaign to
capture Villa, according in experli need
observers of Mexican military affairs
It in pointed out that Hie repoited ic.
liunclatloii of tin. Cm ranza stnndanl by
llerrcia Is Ihe Ilrst In be made by an
linpoi (ant milltnrv leader of t lie dc facto
government since tlie American troops
vrossed the Intel national line.
General llerrcia was mllltaiy gov
ernor of Chihuahua "t Hie time of the
massacre of IS foreigners at Santa
Ypabel, rcei ul wpiks ago.
SENT TO STATE PRISON.
Llilrinbt nnd Wile Convicted of llrcnk-
Ing nml lliitrrliig Hurl Counter Home.
Mlddlcbiiry, March 22.-i:niloiie Kldia
do and his wife, Isabella Fldnulo, who
have been conllneil In the Addison coun
ty Jail for the past few weeks In default
of $!,miA ball, charged with breaking and
entering Hie home of Hurt Counter ami
the larceny of somo wealing appaiel
Were brought this morning before Side
Judges Henry IT. Day of Rlpton ami
Wither IT. Hanks of llilslol and sen
teliced. ITIdrndu was given not mm
than throe nor less than two and a hall
yeais and Ids wife not nunc than two
nor less than ono and a halt years In
Hie Statc'H pilson, They will bo taken
1 there, tu-monow morning.
DESERTING T OOPS
NOT KNOWN NOW
DISASTROUS FIRES
AT NASHVILLE, TENN.
At Last Named City $2,000,000
DamaRc Is Done in Downtown
Section $."),000,000 Worth of
Cotton Threatened.
S1.SI0.I0I LOSS AT NASHVILLE
hn'ty-l' 1VC Residence Blocks
Arc Swept Out of Existence
SilV Iftinrlfnrl 11 ...... tfc .i
cd and 3,000 Persons Home
less by Conflagration.
Augusta. Gn . Mnreh 22 Hre rauser
damage estimated at mole than JVH'"'
In the downtown section of Augusta to
night and at a late hour was eating Its
way unchecked down Rroad street, vvheri
tlie city's principal business houses air
located. Ten blot ks had been desiro.vc
or were burning and tlie llames wn
threatening to spread to tesldontial scl
tlons There apparently was little hope ot
saving "Cotton Row," a stilng r,f -vaie-lioiises.
where J.VwO ftno worth of cotton
was stored. The lotton ex. hai.ge and
the board of trade buildiims also wen
directly In the path of the flames and
among the structiiies alieady iletroyet
or badly damaged weie two office build
ings, tlie Masonic Temple, foui banks,
two telegraph company bullduius ml
the buildings of two dally newspapers
The liie staitcd In the Pyer oftice
building from a caiife not determine 1
and a high wind frustrated efforts to
cheek It. The Dyer building, a five
story ?lr,.iHl structiiie, was a total los
Help for tlie local fire department wa.
i iislied here by special trains irom At
lanta, Macon and Savannah.
The fire appeared to be burning out at
midnight.
Nashville. Tenn.. March '22. V ball of
ain, lighted and thrown by a boy Into
dry crass in a vacant lot, started a con
flagration in Nashville at noon to-rlav,
which was not under control until late
tills afternoon, after 3," residence
blocks bad been swept by the fire. Tho
loss is estimated at I.; sno.nno.
A wind driving at fifty miles an hour
fanned the burning grass into a tor
rent of flames, which quickly ranch
a planing mill and leaped from build
ing to building until at least s'v bun-
,,rpll rp,eees had been destroyed, the
Fast Nashville suh-postoffice burned
dnw n, the lilt Win ner public school ami
several I'hurchrs reduced to ruin..
To-night it is estimated that at least
n.nfiil persons aie homeless as a icsult
of the conflagration.
National guardsmen called cut bv
Governor Rye went on duty In the Hi i
zone late this afternoon and will re
main there for several days to aid in
clief work and pi event looting
ROOSEVELT AND HUGHES
ARE LOOMING LARGE
Prominent Figures In Political (incus
ing lit AVHMlllllgtOII.
Washington, March 22 Hughes and
Roosevelt continue the biggest figure.
in the politicians' guesses about re
sults of the June convention, and tltero
is no satisfaction with the former's
deck nations about his plans thus far
made.
No one ventures to say the iutie
wishes the nomination, hut neither
docs any one dare say he does not
wish it. Tlie colonel lr nms big, main
lv because be always has loomed hie
and the developments lii Europe and
tn Mexico have not tended to tnnka
him look a bit smaller.
The wise men look for n choice be
tween tlieso two leading candidates
and the host of favorite sons who hav
been presented for national considera
tion within recent months.
The eastern section ot the country is
awakening to the strength of Senator
Law i cure Y. Sherman of Illinois, although
for obvious reasons the idea has (bpen nu
coitiaged that Senator Sherman's candi
dacy Is merely a local proposition.
Cumulative development, however,
backed up by the Investigations of ex
perts who have bppp sizing up thp situa
tion in Hie' middle West. Indicate thnt
Senator Sheimnn has as much, it not
more, outside support at the present mo
ment than any other candidate with a
home Stutn backing. To start with. It I
generally undeisiood that Senator Sher
man will have the solid delegation from
Illinois, the third laigest of al. when 'he
first ballot is polled at Chicago. Tim
obsetvuis from the r.ast have discovered
Hint this formidable support by no mi-ani
forms ills limit when tho second chotca
'.iiislncss Is considered
In a re-uine to-d.iv of Hie situation to
date tho New York Herald's political ex
perl states that thus far Fairbanks of
Indiana and Cummins of lown ate ths
only candidates to have delegates in
structed for them. He adds that ill bot'i
these groups of delegates, however, there
aie men favorable to Sherman and former
Senator Utirton of Ohio. An accompany.
ing article from a coi respondent who has
beep touting the West, makes specific
mention of conditions In Kansas, Okla
homa, and Arkansas, where It Is found
that a strong Sherman sentiment has been
developed. Reports reaching Waslilng
ton Indicate that there also Is a strong
undercurrent of Sherman sentiment In
Missouri, Wisconsin and Minnesota,
Fargo, N. p.. March 22 Uate return
f i "in yesterday's North Dakola presi
dential prcfeience pilmais' showed I' S
Senator Robeit M I.al'olletto of Wis
consin Increasing his lead over Henry 1.
lTstnbrook rif Now York for tho repub
lican choice.
AND AUGUSTA, GA.
