v" v.,*
SjN&J!"''.-••'•..•
..
I' jr~
5*
E*
I?
flf*
rfc
pi
IS
irl'"
i' .•
».
1r
•ft
1*z'-fit'S'!?••*•*-~W-%
12 PACES
ESTABLISHED 1 4.
LEON WINS TIL BANNER
At Quadrangular Contest at Corning.
Miss Nancle Kemp Takes First
and George Chastain Second.
The Leon contestants in the Quad
rangular contest held at Corning last
Friday evenig, covered themselves
with glory, winning one first, one sec
ond, and were close for third place,
and again won the banner awarded
each year to the school receiving the
highest number of marks in the con
test, this being the second year in
succession that Leon has won this
banner. It has been awarded three
times. Osceola w'nning it the first
year.
There were four schools in the
contest, Leon, Osceola, Creston and
Corning. There were three judges
in each contest, 100 being a perfect
score, and Leon received a total of
842 out of a possible 9u0, Corning,
having 836, Creston SOI and Osceola
777. If Leon should be successful
in winning the banner again next
year it will become the permanent
property of the Leon schools, the
rules providing that any school win
ning the banner three times in suc
cession shall retain it.
Miss Nancie Kemp won first in the
•dramatic class, her selection being
"The Death Disc," George Chastain
won second in the oratorical class
with "Spartacus to the Gladiators,"
and Miss Teresa Tullis who was in
MISS NANCIE KEMP
Winner of First Prize at Corning.
the humorous class with "The Village
Gossip," Jailed to .gain a place, al
though one of the judges gave her
first place, and her total marking was
right up with the winners, as the av
erage of the Leon contestants in the
contest was 93% per cent.
The Quadrangular contest will be
held at Leon next year.
The Leon contestants were accom
panied to Corning by Miss Whitney,
one of the High School instructors.
They were informed when they reach
ed Osceola that the train for Corn
ing was thirty-five minutes late, so
they went up town and when they
came back found the train was gone,
the report on the bulletin board
having been for the day before. A
later train enabled them to reach
Corning at 8:45, just as the first
speaker was finishing his address,
but the Leon contestants missed out
on all the fine entertainment provid
ed at Corning for the visitors.
Special Friday Niglit.
"The Girl of the Golden West," is
the special Paramount feature play
at the Idle Hour theatre on Friday,
•with Mabel Van Buren and House
Peters at the head of an exceptional
ly strong cast. It is a play of ,the
golden west, full of thrilling climax
es and with a strong toucl* of pathos.
It is the greatest romantic dramatic
success e,v,er presented in picture
form—first a drama then an opera
now the marvel of motion picture
art. By far the most famous drama
ever filmed. Matinee at 3 o'clock,
three evening shows, the first at 7
o'clock. Prices 10 and 15 cents.
Entertained Evangelistic Party and
Jjeon Pastors.
C. M. Akes entertained the mem
bers of the Fairfield Gospel Team
who are conducting the meetings at
fhe tabernacle and the local pastors
at dinner at his fine country home
on Tuesday, when his big sale was
held, and they enjoyed a sumptuous
dinner prepared under the supervis
ion of Mrs. Akes and her two daugh
ters-in-law, and then all enjoyed the
sight of seeing nearly twenty thous
and dollars worth of live stock sold
at auction in a few hours.
Bought Another Decatur County
Farm.
A. M. Pryor last week sold another
good Decatur county /farm to S. C.
Bradford, of Des Moines, who has
bo.ught a number of good farms in
this county the past few months. The
farm consists of 200 acres, four
mileB north of Leon, owned by Henry
Miller, who but recently bought it
from John Ryan, the price being $120
per acre cash.
Work on New Hotel Being Rushed.
.0 Contractor Sam Anderson has a big
force of masons at work putting in
the foundation for the new addition
to Hotel Leon, and material is being
received for the new building. The
work will be rushed to completion,
and Mr, Anderson is making a good
HUNG HIMSELF.
Green Stanton Committed Suicide at
His Home in Leon l^ast Friday
Morning.
Green Stanton, a well known old
soldier who has lived in Leon for
several years, committed suicide by
hanging himself in a small outbuild
ing at his home just south of the
High School building last Friday
morning, his lifeless body being dis
covered by his wife about 8 o'clock.
Mr. Stanton has been afflicted for
several years with a serious nervous
trouble, and being unable to secure
relief it is thought his mind became
affected which was the reason for his
rash act. He had been making
threats of taking his life for several
days. On Wednesday he purchased
a lot in the Leon cemetery, and had
requested Riley Buchanan to preach
his funeral when he passed away.
He remained at home all day Thurs
day and exhibited a revolver to his
wife and also spent considerable time
in sharpening a knife. Friday morn
ing after breakfast he left the house
and went to the outbuilding and hung
himself to the roof, using a small
piece of quarter inch rope which he
had doubled, his feet being but a
few inches from the floor, and he
was dead when Mrs. Stanton found
him some time later.
and had lived that faith since that
time. He was a man who had many I
He had been a member of the Ma
sonic order for many years.
The deceased is survived by his
wife, two daughters, Mrs. Edith
Shouse, of Hastings, Neb., and Mrs.
Emma Beck, of Gregory,( S. D., two
brothers, one sister and seven grand
children.
Funeral services were held at the
E. church on Sunday afternoon at
1:30 6'clock, conducted by Rev. Ril
ey Buchanan, the church being filled
to capacity with sympathizing and
sorrowing friends. The G. A. R. Post
and the Masonic lodge attended and
participated in the last sad rites. In
.terment was in the, Leon cemetery.
Mrs. Ella Stanton,
Mrs. Emma Beck,
Mrs. Edith Shouse.
Masons Visited Lamoni.
A
N,„ ONN MNCNNA
vin oomp.,1 frnm WdMnn rterfttiir
last Wednesday evening where the
Leon team took charge of the work
of conferring the Master Mason's de
gree on Dr. Paul Stookey. The visi
tors enjoyed the evening and so did
Dr. Stookey. The boys all returned
home safe and sound except W. A.
Poush who came back minus part of
Eeon^vL visuld Lamoni
Fred J. Ehrhardt, Fred Barrett, Capt
J. D. Brown, B. O. Springer, Walter
Osborn and A. E. Swim.
C. M. Akes' Big Sale.
derly crowd it was at such a big
sale. Charley Akes has a reputation
of pulling oft big things at his sales
and this sale was no exception.
Do You Know?
lege of using the Penniwell ditches
in north Leon for that purpose?
That you must keep your chickens
at home or stand the consequences?
That you will have to stop running
sewage into the streets and alleys?
That you must connect your sew
age drains to the sanitary sewer?
That you are apt to get into
trouble if you do not take notice and
govern yourselves according to the
well known laws, ordinances and
resolutions bearing on these and kin
dred subjects?
ii
Austin Green Stanton was born at
Larue, Ohio, December 1, 1845, and
departed this life at Leon, Iowa,
March 17, 1916, aged 70 years, 3
rronths and 17 days. He came to De
-r ld8fiy6 "whe^f nioni. Grand River, Garden Grove,
ihe resided for many years engaging °sceola
rouarllf^is^a^lliis heaUhe0Heaerv-lanotller
£d durins the Cpvll ivith honor movement, but the hisses, surprise
yet, other than the sudden successful
thp OAR Post He united with launching of the campaign, happened
III Lti ii
Phnrch in 1868
time. He was a man who had many taken it was then that
friends, especially those who knew JJ' tjjen, it «as then that
him best. He ever stood ready to ex-
tend a helping hand to the needy. I S'InX
S" °,Z: hTs" tfaieVTS quate way to finance a big movement
credit He leavers
"Sy.'ma
tives and friends bowed with grief.
his clothes and had a hard time ex
nlainine- to liis wife Those from ni€H. pledged himself to
R. H. Sumner, W. A. Curry, L. B. he has saved and gives all he makes
Kpmn Conrev Guv Stark the Lord. He told of
B. P?i'ce,'Flo'yd Coder, Charles Gr'ant', ithe
The big live stock sale held by C. Swift brothers of the Swift Packing
M. Akes at his farm just south of, company, were great philanthropists,
Leon on Tuesday was sure a good one having established Lake Forest
one One of the largest crowds which University and the other making
ever attended a sale in southern large contributions to other schools
Iowa was in attendance, many buy- and colleges. He called attention to
ers fromv a distance being present. great men like Garfield, McKinley
The auctioneers were D. A. McMains, and Lincoln as noble Christian men.
C. A. McKern and Milt Manchester, The aim of his sermon was to impress
and nearly every auctioneer in Deca- men with the t-aought that it is not
tur county was present and Mr. Akes belittling for a man to be a christian,
had all of them selling some of his He showed that it pays better, even
stock. Over four hundred head of in a money sense,, to be a christian
live stock were sold, the sale amount- than not to be. He says you can be
ing to a little over 18,000. Bidding a horse trader and still be a chris
was lively and everything sold well, tion. He told a pretty good story of
and it was remarkable what an or- a horse that could see fish as well as
birds. He then related how a mule
smashed his own nose all over his
face, and how he was rushed to a Chi
cago hospital, but the doctors were
unable to build up a good nose out
of the fragments. But he said that
he was better off that the fellow who
That you cannot lawfully dump tin had his nose bitten off in a scrap,
cans or trash of any kind in the city and when he pasted it back, he got
without permission from the city it upside down. He got along very
authorities? well except when it rained he nearly
ATTHE BIG TABERNACLE
The Interest in the Meetings is In
creasing Daily. Big Building is
Crowded at Every Service.
The big tabernacle meetings are
moving grandly along and increas
ing in momentum every day. The
crowds at the tabernacle are increas
ing and the interest is intensifying.
From eight to ten cottage prayer
meetings are being held in different
parts of the city every morning at to
o'clock. A twelve minute meeting
for business men was held in each of
the three banks on three successive
days last week.
Four services were held Sunday.
At 11 o'clock there was the regular
morning service at the tabernacle,
with all other church services sus
pended except Sunday school. In
the afternoon there was a men's
meeting at the tabernacle and a meet
ing for women at the Brethren
church. At the tabernacle in the ev
ening the people began to gather ear
ly and by the time the services began
the big tabernacle was packed and
people standing and many were turn
ed away.
The men's meeting in the afternoon
was said to be the largest men's meet
ing ever held in Leon. There were
l'ully eight hundred men present. Men
and delegations were here from all
parts of the county and tne neighbor
ing towns and cities. Corydon, La-
and others were
iat this service when Rev. Moser, pas
tor of the Methodist church, an-
th th offering wou
twenty-one tens and twenty-one fives
pledged.
The offering and the music seem
ed to prepare the way for a great
sermon by Mr. Harper. He spoke on
the attitude of great men of the
country to church and Christianity.
He
with several from Weldon, Decatur w™
and Davis City, autoed to Lamoni
That they have secured the privi-! drowned and when he sneezed he
Warning from the Mayor's Office, when he begins to make appeals, and
March 23rd, 1916. .recall for decisions.^- The audience
commented upon the contribution
that Theodore Roosevelt and Wm. J.
Bryan had made to church work. He
told of a visit to Washington where
he found Woodrow Wilson and chief
Justice Harland teaching a Bible
class. He spoke of John Wannamak
er of Philadelphia, the merchant
prince of tho world, beginning life
as a clerk in a New York store, and
we8re hon£ty and integrity^ He_ told of
Poush, J. E. Leeper, F. C. Mullinnix, Colgate work. Colgate used to
W Mnnrp EH Farnuhar S Par- Sive a tenth and taen two-tenths of
rish, W. C. Stempel, Frank Mailette, 'lis ^neome ®Lnd "ow,
he
owner of
"?3ww .""^r
1
represented.
seemB t0 llave
featured this
id then
wag then
*at
Decatur
.s
w". Town-
the meantime the collection plates
were passed and the amount increas
ed twenty-eight dollars. The collec
tions for the three services Sunday
amounted to four hundred and eighty
dollars. This voluntary offering
greatly encouraged the finance com
mittee and indicated the willingness
lUJliet? ttUU iUUltJcttCU l-UC
A Card—We desire to thank the gave to the cause seems to have in
many friends for their acts of sym- spired our Leon people and tne com
pathy in our great bereavement, the mittee is very grateful to Mr. Town
loss of our husband and father. Your send. Mr. Townsend also made a
kindness in this hour of trouble will five dollar proposition. There were
never be forgotten.
be one of ten men to contribute one
hundred dollars. His offer was im
mediately caught up by Mr. A. K.
Harper, the leader and big layman
preacher of the campaign. Then oth
ers followed and the ten's began to
come thick and fast, then fives, twos
and ones, amounting in all to three .t. ..
hundred and fifty-four dollars. In speaker and one conversant with the
w£at
the-Ivory Soap factory,
a multimillionaire who gives millions
to church work. Also McCormick of
Chicago of the McCormick Harvester
company and his widow who have
given millions to churches, missions
and universities. He said that the
blew his hat off. In the evening Mr.
Harper spoke on "Excuses Men Make
for Not Being a Christian," and it
made a deep impression upon the
audience. He showed the many
excuses men make are futile and do
not justify men in not being chris
tions. Mr. Harper has a winning
personality, and his persuasive ap
peal and ability to get hold of his
audience is wonderful. The pointed
ness and reality with which he tells a
story holds his audience completely,
and it is bound to have its. effect
I
seems to be in full sympathy with
him and everybody is boosting for
llarpef and the success of the meet
ings.
The Brethren church was crowded
at the women's meeting. This meet
ing was addressed by Mrs. A. K.
Harper, wife of the evangelist. Mrs.
Harper pleased the women greatly
and demonstrated that she had much
of the spirit and zeal that character
izes her husband's ministry.
The choir music is fine and Mr.
Gus Scott, "The Big Swede," has
built up a great choir of two hundred
voices. In his gracious, solicitous
manner and with the aid of his "big
foot" he makes everybody want to
sing, and they sing too. Mr. Daggett,
another of the evangelistic party is
always on the platform with his
beaming countenance and pleasant
greetings to all. These men are fine
to meet on the street or in the home.
They have been all over the city with
bills and advertisements announcing
the meetings. This Gospel Team
makes much of advertising. They use
balloons, aeroplanes and many other
devices. The wind was too strong
Saturday afternoon and the balloon
sent up didn't go very far, as it was
soon caught in the wires on Main
street. TUit the men say others,are
to be sent up and areoplanes also.
Tuesday night of last week and
also Tuesday night of this week was
High School nights and they came
nearly two hundred strong, a two
dollar prize being given the class
with the largest attendance, and two
dollars for the best class yell. On
Wednesday evening the Homesteader
ledge came in a body three hundred
strcng. The K. of- P. lodge and oth
er- delegations have beefn present.
Delegations from other towns have
been in the meetings. It is the wish
and purpose of the committee to wel
come and encourage the coming of
delegations and the committee says
that they are glad to make reserva
tions for neighboring towns, but these
reservations will have to be made
during the week and not on Sunday.
The committee also wants it under
stood also that there is no service on
Monday evenings. Monday is rest
day for Mr. Harper and his party.
week. They wil probably come via
J.
tne services.
trial jury.
E, Housh iiad Fine Sale.
LEON, IOWA, THURSDAY* MARCH 23, 1916. VOLUME LXII, NO. 32.
However there is to be a popular ad- any Republican April 1st,
six or seven men was to have been
dress at the tabernacle next Monday I Mrs. C. V. Warner and baby arriv
evening. Mr. F. M. Collard, of Wat- ed from Ellensburg, Washington, on
erloo, who is representing the Flying I Monday afternoon, called here by the
Squadron of the Business Men's AS-I illness of her brother, Charles Gird
sociation of Iowa, is to speak on State ner.
Prohibition at the tabernacle. Mr.
Collard, we are told, is an eloquent Mayor's Proclamation of City JUec-
Iowa situation. It's certain the tab
ernacle will be crowded that evening. onday7 the 27th day of March,
The Flying Squadron, with a team of 1916
here^at Leon^next Sunday a,nd spoken jor purpose of electing
mayor,
Two councilmen at large,
in all the churches and mass meet
ings in the afternoon and evening,
but with the evangelistic meetings,
of men to support the movement. three city wards
stimulus' that a noii-resident of Leoi». comes oa. Moij.da.,. night .n- City treasurer, and
.T it. r. I City Assessor.
^r" a ?a«Si! ,?re ®..i Each ward will vote at the usual
part of the Fairfield team here this
TWENTYFIVE YEARS AGO
Items Taken from the Files of Tba
Reporter Published a Quarter
of a Century Ago.
Easter came on March 29th.
Even the oldest inhabitant cannot
remember when the roads were as
bad as they have been the past two
weeks.
Mr. E. C. Widman, a traveling
salesman for a Lincoln, Neb., whole
sale grocery house and Miss Mattie
Spargur, of Davis City, were married
at the Ward hotel on March 19, Rev.
F. M. Northern officiating.
J. P. Wharton has purchased an
interest in the cigar factory of F.
Bobbitt, the new firm being Bobbitt
& Wharton.
Bessie, the little daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. E. J. Sankey, aged four
years and nine months, died last Fri
day from an attack of pneumonia, be
ing sick just a week.
W. J. Sullivan was preparing to
put in a stock of groceries in the
room vacated by W. A. Simpson.
The K. of P. lodge is preparing to
organize a K. of P. band among the
members of that order.
The following marriage licenses
have been issued the past week:
PJ. C. Widman 25 to Mattie Spar
Eur 25.
John W. Poush 23 to Rebecca E.
Mcintosh 24.
John Sanders 38 to Mary Kemper
20.
An infant dauguter of Mr. and
Mrs. W. A. Moore, of south of Leon,
died on March 17th, and was buried
in the New Salem cemetery.
J. H. Pitman wanted to come to
town Monday and as the roads were
so bad he concluded he could walk
it quicker than he could make it with
a team, but it took him seven hours
to make the trip, about ten miles. He
returned home Tuesday.
Millard F. Stookey and family
shipped their household goods to
Bethany, Mo., last week, and left for
that place Thursday. Mr. Stookey
will take editorial charge of the Beth-
po
1
Lineville and drive through in cars. p^RQUHAR
It was unfortunate that a delega- Mayor of City of Leon, Iowa,
tion from Bethany came Monday March 9 1916
evening when there was no services.
The young people of the different »The Battle Cry of Peace."
churches have a union service on Sun-
days at 6:30 p. m. at the Brethren All records were broken at the Idle
church. As the pupils in school can- Hour theatre last Friday when the
not attend the morning cottage pray- great feature play, "The Battle Cry
er meetings, they have asked to have of Peace,' was presented, two mati
their prayer service at the tabernacle ness being given in the afternoon and
immediately at the close .of school in two shows at night, and the house
the afternoon. This certainly indi- was crowded at each performance,
cates something of the interest be- many parties being here from out of
ing felt in the meetings. All the town to see the picture. It was a
Sunday schools report a marked in- great picture, and we have yet to
crease in attendance last Sunday. At hear of the first person who saw it
the men's meeting next Sunday after- who is not in favor of preparedness,
noon Mr. Daggert will tell the story not for war, but for peace. It is a
of his conversion. Mr. Harper says great educational picture, and shows
every man in Decatur county ought what is lmble to happen to this
to hear it. There will also be a'visit- country in case we should become in
ing lady here to address the women's volved in war unless we are prepared
meeting Sunday afternoon. Sunday for it. The picture is better than any
evening after the services, Dr. and arguments tuat can be made.
Mrs.
O. Woodmansee entertained
at tea the evangelistic party and the l*aid $159 an Acre for Decatur Coun
local ministers and other friends. Mr. 'arm.
and Mrs. Harper took the early morn- KeeleTT^has been living
*fS their home at Fairfield, ^ust
Mr. Harper returning Tuesday fo jQr
Notice is hereby given that on
there win be
held in and for
the cit of Leon Iowa an
election
One councilman from each of the
ujng place, polls open at 8 o'clock
*d
cloge 7 0cl0ck
acrosg
ye jjne jn clarke county
geveraj
a
.... .... 7". the road south from his Clarke coun
Ha\e You I aid 1 our Auto Tax. farm for which he paid 5159 an
Everybody who owns a car and has acre cash, for the 160 acres owned
not yet secured their license numbers **. C. Yenney, and known as the
for 1916, should remember that un-
less you receive your 19x6 numbers °®e the best farms in that part of
before April 1st, there will be a pen- the 'country, and while the price is
alty of ten per cent added and five high he is satisfied it is worth the
per cent each month thereafter that money.
you are delinquent. The penalty will flipped a Car Load of Stallions to
be attached just like real estate tax- Idaho.
es, and if you have not secured your
new license you had better attend to Curtis Burrell, of Davis City, last
it at once for the time before the week shipped the first car load of
penalty goes on is pretty short. stallions ever shipped out of Decatur
county, and he.nad some good ones
Attending Federal Court at Creston. jn the lot. He shipped the car by ex
press to Blackfoot, Idaho, the express
Several Decatur county citizens %re
attending Federal court at Creston
charges
eX
this week, having been drawn as t,ree(jers jn the vicinity of Black
foot.
grand and trial jurors. Patrick Grif
fin of Grand River, and 11. L. North
rup of Garden Grove, are on the
grand jury and Ezra Bright, John
Chastain jr., M. Griffin of Leon, and J. C. JCeshlear, a well known farm
W. A. France of Lamoni, are on the er ilving a couple of miles west of
E.
The big closing out sale of
Housh held at his farm southwest of Davis City.
Leon on last Thursday was a dandy
good one, over $9,000 worth of stock
being sold in less than three hours
by auctioneers, D. A. McMains, L. V.
Tullis, McKern 6c Manchester, and
prices were extra good, Mr. Housh be
ing more than pleased with the sale.
Marriage licenses.
Geo. iSartschen, Lamoni .......26
Cora Thompson, Blythedale, Mo. .26
Chas. A. Burchett, Grand River .. 29
Elizabeth A. Follmer, Leon .. .^0
years, last week bought
farm jn Decatur county, just across
old
.heny farm. Bert has secured
the shipment being $610.
pects to dispose of the stallions
Death of J. O. Keslilear.
Davis City, died early Monday morn
ing his death being from an attack of
pneumonia. His funeral was held at
Davis City Tuesday afternoon, con
ducted by the Odd Fellows lodge of
A Swell New car.
Francis Varga and his mother,
Mrs. S. Varga, drove down from Des
Moines Sunday morning in a new
1916 Cadillac eight, one of the finest
cars on the market. The Varga fam
ilies will enjoy a great deal of pleas
ure with their new car.
Spectacles, repair work of a.l
kinds quickly and accurately done
by Butler the jeweler.
12 PAGES
IX THE JUSTHICT COUNT
Court Convened Monday and Judge
Maxwell IMnposes of Many
Cases.
The March term of the District
Court convened Monday evening
when Judge Maxwell arrived from his
home in Creston. This promises to
be a busy term of court, it being a
three weeks term, and an effort will
be made to clean up a large number
of cases, the docket being the largest
for a number of years. Judge Max
well on Tuesday ordered a number
of cases which had been on the docket
for pome time dismissed for want of
prosecution. The trial jury were
notified not to appear until Monday
of the second week of court, there
being forty trial jurors summoned
for this term in place of the regular
panel of twenty-fouru.
On Tuesday Judge Maxwell made
an order that Mercedes Zimmerman,
the little daughter of Mrs. Will Zim
merman, of Leon, who has been a
cripple from birth, be sent to the
state hospital at Iowa City for treat
ment undfer the new law providing for
siich cases, and the physicians who
examined the child believe that an
operation will cure her.
The grand jury was empaneled on
Monday evening, the members being
F. A. Townsend foreman, A.
J.
Owens, W. D. Robinson, H. A. Tap
scott, Geo. M. Stephens, P. C. Mor
gan and T. E. Cummings. The court
appointed J. S. Parrish, clerk of the
grand jury, and W. H. McCalla bailiff.
Earl McDowell is officiating as
court bailiff.
The following cases have been dis
posed of up to Wednesday morning:
LAW AND EQUITY
Sven Clay vs. F. A. Greenland. Dis
missed at plaintiff's cost.
J. E. Sutherlin vs. P. E. Shirley.
Dismissed at plaintiff's cost.
German Trust Co. vs. J. S. Rickey.
Judgment for amount of one promis
sory note.
Wm. E. Parker vs. Harriet Roush.
Dismissed at plaintiff's cost.
R. G. Sutton vs. R. W. Braden and
Pete Huddleston. Dismissed at plain
tiff's cost.
Melvin Bennett vs. Bank of Ells
ton. Dismissed at, plaintiff's cost.
Huldah Emley vs. Perry Emley et
al. Dismissed at plaintiff's cost.
Anna Watcher vs. Ed Dennis. Dis
missed at plaintiff's cost.
Empire Cream Separator Co. vs.
R. L. Young. Dropped from docket.
Winter Hastings vs. Agnes Hill
Hastings. Dismissed at plaintiff's
cost.
Thos. T. Hughes vs. Henry S. Mill
er. H. H. Flanagan appointed com
missioner to establish lines and cor
ners.
C. F. Smith vs Clyde Leouard.
Dismissed at plaintiff's cost.
Agnes Hastings vs. Winter Hast
ings. Dismissed at plaintiff's cost.
Greati Eastern Oil & Paint Co. vs.
W. L. Barry. Dismissed at plaintiff's
cost.
\V. A. Ramsey vs. George Hale et
al. Dismissed.
Lina Knapp vs. Lotta Wells. Dis
missed for want of prosecution.
M. W. Loper vs. W. J. Mather. Set
tled and dismissed.
C. B. & Q. R. R. Co. vs. J. M. Hal
stead and A. Shore. Dismissed at
plaintiff's cost.
Lenna Frazier vs. G. R. Frazier.
Dismissed.
Clara Z. Hamilton vs. Lewis N.
Hamilton. Dismissed.
G. W. Dunbar vs. E. L. Farmer^
Settled and dismissed.
Marshall Milling Co. vs. Guy Stark.
Settled.
Clarence Hedges vs. W. A. Vander
I flute. Settled and dismissed.
I Mary L. Fulton vs. Unknown
Claimants. Decree quieting title.
I Geo. Brideson vs. John J. Lawless
jet al. Judgment on farm lease.
J. P. Maxwell vs. Emmett LaFol
lette et al. Settled and dismissed.
Sarah J. Moore vs. Agnes Out
house et al. Francis Varga appointed
guardian ad litem for minor defend
ants. Default.
Estes & Co. vs. J. E. Thompson et
al. Decree of foreclosure.
Ada V. Hoskins vs. Henry Hos
kins. Decree of divorce granted.
PROBATE
I Guardianship of Ralph and Frank
Lloyd. Ed H. Sharp appointed guar
dian ad litem. Order for sale of real
estate.
Guardianship of Edgar Middleton.
Final report approved and guardian
discharged.
Guardianship of Laurette Kelley.
I Final report approved.
I Estate of Edmund L. Northey. Ex
ecutor has 30 days to plead to pe
tition for allowance.
Estate of G. H. McAlister. Report
of sale and deed to Ettie McGhee ap
proved.
Estate of John B. Preston. Final
report approveu. Administrator dis
charged.
Estate of Rhoda Frazier. On hear
ing administrator is authorized to set
off claim of estate against W. H„
Stanford's share.
I Guardianship of John Elston Smith
I et al. S. E. Smith appointed guar
:dian with bond of $100.
Estate of Robert White. Report of
sale and deed to Thomas E. Leedom.
|approved.
I Estate of Winter Hastings. Will
probated. B. M. Russell appointed,
executor with bond of $100.
George Beban Coining Back.
George Beban, who recently made
such a hit in "Tli6 Alien" at the
Idle Hour theatre, is coining back,
and will be' seen at this popular the
atre on Monday, March 27 th, in "The
Italian," one of his greatest charac
teers. No actor had ever appeared at
the Idle Hour who. pleased better
than Geoirge Beban, and everybody
will want to see him in "Hie Italian."
Matinee at 3 o'clock, three shows in
the evening, the first one at 7 o'clock,,
Prices 10 and 15,cents... ......
1
