VOL. XXI, NO. 40.
MONOPOLIZE INTEREST
REMARKABLY LIGHT VOTE IN
RURAL PRECINCTS—SCATTER
ING RETURNS RECEIVED
BRUE6GER-PERRY TILT CLOSE
BRUEGGER STRONG AT HOME—
LaFOLLETTE AND OLSON LEAD
THEIR OPPONENTS
A stormy day, bad roads, merely a
fractional vote in the country pre
cincts and no contests to excite wide
interest, except the Bruegger-Perry
democratic struggle for national com
mitteeman—that was the situation at
yesterday's presidential primaries.
If this section can be taken as rep
resentative, not over 15 percent of the
country vote turned out and less than
50 per cent of the town vote. In
numerous country precincts of Wil
liams county not a ballot was cast.
The democratic vote of the cities and
towns made a good showing. Prob
ably a week must elapse before some
of the winners are known.
In Williston
For once the democrats out voted
the republicans in this city. The to
tals on the leading candidates were:
Bruegger 172, Perry 15.
LaFollette 50, Estabrook 21.
Gunder Olson 60, Lemke 15.
The vote on national convention
delegates is badly mixed with local
candidates and a few others stepping
out in front.
County Totals
Only 24 precincts had made re
turns to the auditor at noon and sev
eral of these showed "no election."
The totals for these precincts are:
Bruegger 240, Perry 22.
Lemke 97, Olson 175.
Lafollette 237, Estabrook 49.
President Wilson was the only
democratic presidential candidate on
the ballot. In a few cases republi
cans wrote Wilson's name on their
ballot and a few wrote in Roosevelt's
name.
Such meagre returns as are found
in this morning's dailies indicate that
Gunder Olson has won over Lemke
for republican national committeeman
and that Lafollette leads Estabrook
by a wide margin. All signs point to
a neck and neck race for democratic
national committeeman between John
Bruegger of Williston and H. H. Per
ry. If there is any hunch to be got
ten from the first reports it seems
to be in the local man's favor. Re
suits on national convention delegates
and republican presidential electors
will not be knbwn for some time.
Eastern Part of State
Wednesday evening's Fargo Forum
says:
One hundred and sixty-seven scat
tering precincts in the state, reported
to the Forum up to 2:30 o'clock this
afternoon, gave LaFollette 2,896 and
Estabrook 1,041.
Robert LaFollette has been en
dorsed by North Dakota Republicans
as their choice for President of the
United States by a margi nof at least
three to one and probably four to one
over H. D. Estabrook of New York
city.
Slowly arriving returns from every
section of the state, except the Mis
souri slope, place LaFollette far in the
lead. The Missouri slope, or German
settled communities, are returning
majorities for Es.tabrook, but they bid
fair to disappear before they go very
far eastward.
Gunder Olson Ahead
Gunder Olson has been made na
tional committeeman of the Republi
can party, defeating William Lemke,
the Progressive Republican league, or
"LaFollette ticket" candidate, by a
big margin. The total may run five
to one and even six to one in favor
of Olson, former state treasurer.
Democratic Fight Close
In the Democratic ranks, the fight
for national committeeman remains
unsettled. With a light vote polled I Eight Mile Farmers' club will fol
throughout the rural precincts -of the low up their splendid meeting of
state, because of the bad road con- March '6 by one set for Saturday,
ditions, the few returns that are
available fail to give any clear idea
of the outcome. On the returns at
hand, Perry seems to lead. The fact,
however, that Perry has not made a
very good showing in the extreme
southeast counties, may operate
against him when the returns from
Williams and adjoining counties,
Bruegger's home district, are avail
able.
(Continued on page 10)
Marshall is a man's size ball play
er. about six feet two or three inches
in height, but carries very little extra
flesh. He is a college man and works
as a civil engineer when not playing
ball. He writes that he would like to
get employment in his line, in this
part of the country, after the ball
season closes. He has played and
managed in the minor leagues for a
number of years and pitched for
Aurora, 111., in the Illinois-Wisconsin
league last season until it quit for
lack of funds in July.
While not desiring to make prema
ture claims the board believes they
have found in Marshall the man they
sought—a man free from objection
able habits, with tact and "head" as
well as base ball ability and exper
ience. Jack Corrigan of Stanley, a
base ball veteran, who knows Mar
shall well said, when questioned: "I
don't know where you could bet a bet
ter man for what you want."
Bift one other player has been defi
nitely hired and the new manager will
be given some say in selecting the
other outside players. A bunch of
local talent will undoubtedly try out
and four or five will probably make
good. The local prospects for a splen
did ball season are growing better all
the time. Ray, Sidney, Glendive,
Plentywood, Glasgow, Chinook, Malta.
Havre, probably Stanley and Berthold,
and still other towns will have good
teams in the field.
Another Big Meeting
For Eight Mile Club
March 25, at 10:30 A. M., at Trenton.
Among the speakers will be Miss
RetslafF of the state Agricultural
College, who will talk on home sub
jects, and Supt. Ruzicka of the Wil
liston Sub-Station, who recently re
turned from two months work on re
ports at the department of agricul
ture, Washington.
Free lunch will be served at noon
and a general and cordial invitation
is extended.
Williston
Formal Opening: of Two
Fine Broadway Stores
Friday the 17th saw the opening
of two new stores on east Broadway
that form an important addition to
the retail establishments of the city.
These were the Roche Cash Grocery
and O'Dcll & Company's ladies and
children's furnishing store, which oc
cupy the double store room of the
Kassis building.
The formal opening of the two
stores to the trade attracted marked
attention, particularly from the la
dies of the city, who filled both places
to overflowing and expressed them
selves as greatly pleased with the fine
stocks offered for their inspection.
Onstad's orchestra ientertained and
carnations were presented to the la
dies.
PLAYING MANAGER FOR
WILLISTON TEAM HIRED
BIG RIGHT HANDER FROM ILL.,
WIS. LEAGUE WILL COACH
AND HANDLE LOCALS
Unless present plans have to be
changed Clarence Marshall is the
man who will guide the destines of
Williston's 1916 ball team, so far as
the playing end of the game is con
cerned.
After considerable correspondence
the Base Ball Board has arrived at
terms with the man who was their
first choice although many applica
tions were received and considered.
Marshall spent the winter at Long
Lake, Wis., but at present is getting
in condition at a minor league train
ing camp. This man, who, so far as
known, is not a relative of any of the
Marshalls of this community, was
favored by the board because they
had had an opportunity to meet him
personally and watch him play ball.
Last summer he came here with Jack
Corrigan's Stanley team and played
two games against Williston. One
game he pitched and won handily, in
the other game he covered first base
in classy style. Although he *rai
playing with the visiting team iii
games that proved rather scrappy he
got the whole crowd with him by his
clever, good natured line of coaching
conversation and a display of tactful
temperament. He made a hit with
everyone and the town made a hit
with him. As early as last December
he wrote to make inquiries about a
base ball job this season.
1
FREE DISCUSSION OF
FARM INTERESTS
FARMERS' MEETING OF UN
USUAL INTEREST RESULTS
FROM G. N. OFFER, MONDAY
75
FARMERSTRE PRESENT
HOGS, ALFALFA, SOIL MANAGE
MENT, CATTLE, DISCUSSED
BY CRANE AND WILLSON
"I have been in every county of
North Dakota touched by the Great
Northern lines, and in nearly every
agricultural district of the Northwest
and I can say that I believe you farm
ers of Williams county can raise as
good alfalfa as they raise any place
I have been, and I am not talking
about your irrigated land."
—Prof. F. R. Crane.
"From the investigations carried on
for the Northern Pacific road, through
demonstration farms, in the south
western part of the state where con
ditions are similar to yours, I have
reached the conclusion that it pays
to farm less land and farm it better.''
—E. A. Willson.
Both of these assertions and many
others, equally important, made in
the course of long discussions, were
backed up by good sound reasons
based on observation and experience.
Better yet, they were talked over
freely, in detail, by the farmers and
the speakers.
The Farmers meeting called for
Monday afternoon by the Commercial
Club directors at the suggestion of
Prof. F. R. Crane, head of the Great
Northern's agricultural extension de
partment, proved all that was hoped
for it. The roads were in bad condi
tion but about 75 farmers attended
and displayed great interest in the
subjects discussed.
Prof. Shaw and H. R. Smith who in
tended to be present missed connec
tions but the talks by Crane and Will
son and the discussion that was mix
ed in completely filled the afternoon.
Both men are engaged in actual farm
ing and their work for their compan
ies requires that they be practical and
keen and alert to every fact and fig
ure bearing on their work. It would
have been of great value to local ag
riculture if every farmer in the coun
ty could have heard the talks and the
comment they brought out.
Mr. Crane dealt in particular with
hog raising and feeding, alfalfa for
hogs, feeding the soil by keeping live
stock, pure bred sires, value of straw
for fertilizer. He said there should
be live stock enough on the farm to
use at least one third of all the farm
produces. Straw he said had a value
I of $2.20 per ton, just to put back on
the land.
I In conclusion he spoke of the need
of a community spirit of fairness, wil
lingness to give and take and help
build up instead of tearing down,
In E. A. Wilson, who is in the em-
ploy of the Northern Pacific and is
also secretary of the recently organ
ized American Milking Shorthorn
Breeders Association, those present
heard one of the best and most inter
esting and convincing farm subject
speakers ever listened at a local farm
meeting. He described fully and
clearly the details of his experience
conducting demonstration farms in
southwestern North Dakota—particu
larly as to methods of tillage, soil
management and moisture conserva
tion. He got the farmers to asking
questions and telling their own ex
periences. He told of remarkable re
sults obtained in dry years. He also
took up the subject of live stock and
dwelt upon the merits of the milking
short horn strain for the diversifying
farmer in western North Dakota.
Royal Neighbors
I Organized With 30
The Royal Neighbors, the women's
auxiliary of the Modern Woodmen,
are now locally represented by an ac
tive organization of 30 members. The
order was perfected and officers in
stalled by Deputy Lila L. West on the
16th. The following are the officers
of the new body:
Oracle, Mrs. Rhodes Vice Oracle,
Mrs. Brainerd Chancellor, Mrsfl.
Myrtle La Due Recorder, Mrs. Zahl
Receiver, Mrs. Hopkins Marshal,
Mrs. Lowe Inner Sentinel, Mrs. Bur
ton Oter Sentinel, Mrs. Sinclair
Managers, Mrs. Bailey, Mrs. Phil
lips, Mrs. Sheldon Graces, Mrs. Mer
riman, Mrs. Wolfe, Miss Slater, Miss
Musick, Miss Lowe.
WILLISTON, WILLIAMS COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1916. $1.00 PER YEAR IN ADVANCE
April 9-15 Set For
Better Baby Week
A committee representing the
women's clubs, the schools, the physi
cians and other organizations is at
work on plans for the work of Better
Baby Week which, locally, is the sec
ond week of April.
The better baby movement was
Started by Miss Julia Lathrop, head
of the children's bureau at Washing
ton, D. C., and her aim was to in
struct mothers all over the country
to know how to properly care for
their babies that the infant mortality
records might be considerably lower
ed. In this movement, Miss Lathrop
asked the assistance of the General
Federation of Women's Clubs and
they are doing much to make the
movement a successful one.
Mill UNO NEEDED
I
SCHOOL POPULATION IS LARGE,
MORE ROOM A NECESSITY
ELECTION MARCH 31
While there is not, as yet, much
discussion over the bond issue for the
erection of a new chool building, all
comment seems to be of the same
tenor—that if the building is needed
then it must be provided. The elec
tion is only one week distant—Friday,
March 31. Every vote possible
should be registered.
It is well that a large vote be cast
upon the proposition for two rea
sons: if there is any question about
the building it should be brought out
at once and second a large and ap
proximately unanimous vote for the
bond issue will further their sale.
Those who have acquainted them
selves with the enrollment of the
schools are aware that the school pop
ulation is large in proportion to the
population of the city. Few state
ments could be made in higher com
mendation of community spirit than
this there is no more accurate meas
ure of a community than its interest
iischools. That the interest is
real, and not dependent upon mere
legal requirements is shown clearly
in the fact that an unusually large
proportion of pupils who finish the
eighth grade work, continue as a mat
ter of course into the high school.
And further by the fact that of the
967 school pupils enrolled, 221 have
been enrolled for high school work—
this is nearly twenty four per cent—
a rather remarkable per centage.
The immediate need for the build
ing is found in the fact that three
more rooms must be provided for the
new school year, two for additional
third grades, and one for the junior
high school. The following year, two
more grades must be provided for the
fourth grade, and evidently an addi
tional two as this large grade be
comes fifth grade in the school year
of 1918-19. And, too, the senior high
school needs more room for develop
ment.
With the erection of the south wing
of the Central group of buildings, the
junior high school and the senior high
school will be given ample quarters
for several years—probably, although
with the continued development of
this city and community an accurate
prediction is impossible.
Plans for the new building contem
plate well lighted study-recitation
rooms, principal's office, ample halls
and cloak rooms, and ready access to
all fire escapes. Connection will be
made with Central building, the third
floor of which will continue to be used
as the home of the departments of
science and domestic sconomy.
Not the least valuable part of the
building will be the gymnasium-audi
torium. As a gymnasium there will
be provided a free play space approx
imately 35 75, with two dressing
rooms and numerous shower baths,
The sixteen foot ceiling will make real
I athletic contests possible and the
school can soon assume it proper po
ition in athletics.
An an auditorium, a seating ca
pacity of about four hundred and
twenty and a stage twenty feet deep
will make it a valuable part of the
equipment. For chapel gatherings,
school plays and cantatas, special
programs, contests in debate and dec- I
lamation, for concerts and for many
community gatherings as well as
school affairs, much use will be found
for this good sized room.
The building committee is giving I
careful consideration to every detail
and are anxious to erect the most
useful building possible for the
amount of investment provided.
I
IV !fcWv.WL,..r...
Minneapolis Welcomes It
The de Koven Company is present-
CORA TRACY
Allen-a-dale In Robin Hood
ing Robin Hood the present week in
St. Paul and Minneapolis and of its
coming the dramatic critic of the
Minneapolis Journal says:
"It is a "split week" at the Metro
politan, the latter half being devoted
to a welcome return of the de Koven
opera company in the perennial fa
vorite light opera, "Robin Hood,"—
which justly has been characterized
as the best light opera America has
yet produced. The romance of the
picturesque bandit of Sherwood for
est has a charm which will never die,
and in this opera, Reginald de Koven
has given Harry B. Smith's delicious
ly humorous version of it a musical
setting that promises to be equally
immortal.
"Robin Hood" in the palmy days of
the old Bostonians delighted the the
atergoers of a quarter century ago.
Its revival three years ago repeated
the old successes, and demonstrated
that the work had lost none of its
appeal. The present will be the third
appearance here of the revival."
Written 23 Years Ago
Although "Robin Hood" is twenty
three years old, and Reginald de
Koven has written many other works,
this is the first time that he has lent
his name to any company presenting
Historical Sac
deKOVEN OPERA COMPANY
TO PRESENT ROBIN HOOD
Opening of Williston's New Armory-Auditoriunf
To Be Marked by Most Extraordinary At
traction Ever Offered the City and Surround
ing Country—Opera Famous Over 20 Years.
PERFORMANCE DATED SATURDAY, APRIL 1
Superb Ensemble of 50 People Delighting Au
diences From New York to Coast—All-Star
Cast Selected by Author, Reginal de Koven
—Brilliant Chorus of 30 Girls.
Enroute from New York to the Pacific Coast, traveling in spe
cial cars that make up half a train, the de Koven Opera Company,
with 41 artists in the cast and a special orchestra, will present
America's most popular and famous light opera, "Robin Hood" aa
the opening attraction at Williston's beautiful new play house,
Saturday night, April 1st.
It is an attraction well worthy the occasion and apiece of rare
good fortune for both the management of the Armory-Auditorium,,
and the people of the city and surrounding districts. The intention
had been to have the grand opening a little later but by employing
an extra force of workmen the building will be complete by the
date set, in fact is practically finished now. The de Koven Com
pany chanced to have an open date and no engagement between
Minot and Butte. The advance agent after inspecting the Audi
torium was well pleased. He pronounced it ample to accomodate
his large company and said it was one of the best arranged build
ings of its class he had ever seen. Robin Hood and it's elaborate
settings requires a car load of special scenery but the agent said
the unusually large stage and 30 foot scene loft would provide for
it's arrangement.
his operas. The present elaborate
presentation of this little masterpiece
is the most ambitious effort yet made
of a series of revivals that are calcu
lated to foster a taste for a form of
art that is in the languishing state.
Originally produced twenty-three
years ago,-"Robin Hood" has enjoyed
a career of remarkable prosperity. It
has been performed more than seven
thousand times, and the melody af
its score and the wit of its book will
live to give delight to generations yet
unborn. The present production will
doubtless serve as a sharp reminder
of the marked deterioration of the'
standard of light opera, and it may
serve as a good purpose in eliminating
the vacuous exhibitions of nonsensical
vulgarity that has taken the place and
usurped the name and field of this
genre of work. "Robin Hood" has
been given a worthy setting and the
production is an artistic as well as an
elaborate one. The market place of
old Nottingham and the green shades
of Sherwood Forest have been repro
duced with fidelity and an attempt has
been made to preserve the atmosphere
of old England in the days when
Richard I was King. The costumes
have been designed with care and are
of the period. To properly cast
"Robin Hood'' Reginald de Koven
drew on the resources of the grandf
opera houses of this country and Eur
ope.
Stars of the Cast
In this notable cast of vocal artists
first mention should be given to Ivy
Scott, the charming young Australian
prima donna, who made such a suc
cess as Madame Butterfly and as the
Girl in "The Girl of the Golden
West." Miss Scott possesses a re
markable lyric soprano voice of dra
matic quality, and signs the role of'
Maid Marian with an artistic beauty
worthy of the highest praise. The
title role will be sung by Ralph Brain
ard, whose fine tenor voice is admir
ably suited to the part. Wm. Schuster
will play the part of Friar Tuck. Mr
Schuster's performance of the love
able old monk is said to be a classic.
Cora Tracy will be the Alan-a-Dale
and her rich contralto adds a new
beauty to Mr. de Koven's best knowa
song, "O, Promise Me." Another re
cruit from Grand Opera is James Ste
vens of the Chicago Opera Company
whose singing of "Brown October
Ale" gives a pleasure only possible
from such a splendid baritone voice»
Herbert Waterous, a fine basso, will
sing the famous "Armourers' Song."
Marie McConnell, Tillie Salinger, Phil
Branson and Sol Solomon complete
the cast, the excellence of which has
never been surpassed, if equalled in
comic opera.
Chorus of Thirty
An exceptional singing chorus car
(Continued on page 10)
