.,:v^.^ V-
T' ,r:^: V:V
VOL. XXXV—NO. 48.
Jamestown, March 17.—The James
town postoffice and five stores were en
tered by burglars Thursday night, also
the high school building, while an un
successful attempt was made to enter
a seventh store in the boldest series
of robberies that has ever occurred
in the city. From the postofflce the
burglars succeeded in securing a num
ber of stamps a small amount of
change and merchandise was stolen
from the stores. In all, the loot
amounted to about $250. The places
entered were the postofflce, Hamm's
meat market, H. P. Taylor and E. J.
Rhodes' store, H. C. Flint, A. W. Hart
company, and Leo Gruchalla tailor
shop. An attempt to enter the A. C.
grocery was made, but the burglars
did not get through the rear door.
At the high school marauders turned
equipment upside down, but did no
serious damage. All the robberies
were on the south side.
Entrance was forced into the post
offlce through a window in the north
east corner of the building, the win
dow being pried up. A small box
12 by 12 by 15 inches at the general
delivery window containing stamps
was stolen. The box, with all draw
ers smashed open, was found this
morning by Frank Bennett near the
Northern Pacific spur track running
by the Bennett planing mill. Post
master Morris states that a small
amount of stamps were stolen, the
exact loss not being made public un
til the arrival of the postofflce in
spector. Night mailing clerk, Wlr
liain L. Schultz, had left the office at
2:30 a. m. The robbery occurred
later. There were no bars over the
rear windows of the postofflce.
Forcing open the rear door of
Hamm's south side meat market
the burglars entered the store and op
ened the cash register, taking about
$1.50 in change. A gold ring and two
other articles in the register were not
molested. White way lights shine di
rectly into this store.
The robbers evidently attempted to
enter the A. 0. grocery next door
north, from marks found, but did not
get through. Prying open a rear win
dow of the Jamestown gas company's
office, the robbers forced their way
through a door into the E. J. Rhodes
jewelry store. Nothing here was mo
lested, and it is possible the burglars
were frightened by Mr. Rhodes' dog
sleeping in the store.
The H. C. Flint furniture store was
entered, the robbers breaking through
a rear window and smashing the sash.
Only a few pennies were secured, the
cash drawer being left empty and
open according to custom. A desk
was ransacted and contents pawed
At the A. W. Hart pool hall the rob
bers forced the rear window in the
southeast corner and took the cash
register from its stand near the front
of the building, where there is a light
both inside and from the street. The
register was placed on a billiard table
of the north annex and there opened,,
a small amount of silver being stolen.
The register itself was not harmed.
1
'"v'''
Seven Burglaries One
Night Stir Jamestown
The "sixth place robbed was the Leo 'most enjoyable of the social affairs
Gruchalla tailor shop in the Alert ®iven
fclock on Main street. A rear window Festival series. In the dining room
was pried up, breaking the catch. The'the decorations were in green and
"burglars went through the entire shop, 'whlte, and a beautiful scene was pre
pulled down dozens of boxes of shoes,.sented- The table with its beautiful
trying on several of the highest priced I service of silver and china was light
pairs and stealing three pairs. They e*
dently attempting to open
drank a ibottle of spring water heife
and ate a bag of cookies found at the
counter. No money was secured here.
Several drawers and cases were ran
sacked. The robbers left two doors
open in departing. The janitor in the
Alert basement, sleeping below the
Gruchalla store, was partially aroused
during the night by noises he took for jnumber
the pounding of the radiators.
The police have no clew as to the jj0r
The Jamestown commercial club at previous years.
Pioneer Woman of Barnes
County Passes Away Sunday
Sanborn Enterprise: Mrs. Leo
Noecker, a pioneer settler at Sanborn,
died Sunday evening at 6:30 at the
farm home half a mile south of town
after a short illness from pneumonia,
aged 75 years and seven days. She
had been up and about the house ear
lier in the day, though not feeling
well. It was a shock and a surprise to
our townspeople when the report of
her death was circulated.
A short service was held at the
house at 1 o'clock. Public funeral
services were held in the Congrega
tional church in Sanborn at 2 o'clock
Wednesday afternoon, which were at
tended by a large number of neigh
bors and friends representing every
neighborhood within driving distance
of this village. Rev. J. F. L. Bonhoff
conducted the services in both Ger
man and English.
Deceased is survived by eight chil
dren and 18 grandchildren.
The venerable husband, the sons
and daughters and all the surviving
relatives have the sincere sympathy of
the entire community.
Mrs. Noecker was the wife of Leo
Noecker and lived over 36 years on the
home farm just south of town. She
was a noble lovable character and
made friends with all whom she came
in contact.
She was born in Germany in 1841
and at five years of age crossed the
ocean with her parents in a small sail
boat, being nearly eight weeks on the
water. They located near Berlin, Ont..
iwhere she spent her girlhood.
•She was married in 1862 to Wm. F.
Rebscher and leaves one son, Charles
W. Rebscher, survivor. Wm. F. Reb
scher died in 1868 and she then mar
ried Leo Noecker and in 1879 came to
North Dakota, where they have lived
since. Of this last union seven chil
dren survive, all of whom reside in
this county except Mrs. Ottillie Knight
who lives in Sour Lake, Tezas
Reception at Platou
Home for Mme. North
After the concert at the Normal
auditorium Saturday night a recep
tion was held at the home of Mayor
and Mrs. Platop, to which guests
numbering about 70 had been invited,
to meet the artist of
Mme. Dorothea North.
for the artists of the
on'y
green
also took a fur-lined overcoat, one oth-, candelabra, and presided over by Mrs.
the floor several boxes of shoes tried Violetta Peterson assisting in the sflrv-
ing.
on. They broke a heavy pair of tail
ors' shears attempting to open desk
drawers, and locked the safe .while evl-1 east, after charmingly expressing her
to open it. They Pleasure in meeting the guests, and
candles in silver
er overcoat left by a farmer east ol' **olm Tracy and Mrs. Etagene Wood- ^jeg There were several games play
the city for repairs, overshoes, a coat bams. Dainty light refreshments jor the winner received St.
and a pair of pants. They threw on'
were
I Mme. North left on No. 2 for the
her thanks to the host and hostess
for their hospitality.
Gave St Patrick's Party
Mrs. W. J. Carroll entertained a
of young people at a st Pat
rick's party Friday evening in
gQn
robbers. Night Officer Briggs reports pre^jiy decorated with green emblems ineSS
and dancing was the prominent fea-j
ture of the evening. Miss Jessie
that he made his last round through
the alley between Fifth and Fourth
avenues on the south side about 2
o'clock, going from the Gladstone
block south on Fifth avenue to Paci
fic street and back through the alley
between Fourth and Fifth avenues to its next meeting will
Main street noticing nothing wrong..'measures to provide an additional pa
He states that a number of hoboes trolman to protect from further rob
,were arriving on freight trains through- beries. A similar patrolman was em*
out the night. 'ployed by Fifth avenue merchants in
Oranges From Farm in Cuba
Chester Wiley is moving his family
into the Simenson fiat as his resi
dence on Fourth avenue has to be
moved to make room for the new post
office building.
Mrs. H. E. Carlton, of Oriska, spent
the day in the city Saturday.
Enjoyed Afternoon Party
Mrs. F. W. Raymond entertained for
Mrs. Edith Bourbonnais Thursday aft
ernoon at her home on West Second
street. The afternoon was spent In
needlework and social chat and a most
pleasant time enjoyed. At the close
of the afternoon the hostess served de
licious refreshments.
STRANGE CASE OF
HORSE POISONING
Dickinson, N. D., March 16.—Chas.
F. Will, whose ranch is about two and
a half miles from the Willis King
place, formerly the Pete Pelissier
ranch, lost four horses the past fall
and winter, and he is inclined to
the evening, think that the loco weed caused their
All .who had death. As he understands, horses
felt the charm of her voice and un- get this poisonous weed in August
affected manner at the concert were and as soon as frost comes there is
more than pleased with her friendly no further danger until another sea
manner at the reception, which was' son. A number of ranchers along
very informal. Owing to some of the the Little Missouri river and country
patrons and patronesses being absent! tributary have lost horses the past
from the city, and some of them being season in much the same wey.
detained through illness there was no
receiving line, but the utmost inform
ality prevailed, making this one of the
Pre"
honor
Macdonald, of Getchell Prairie, and
Mrs. Jaqua, of Leal, were the out of
town guests.
Young Folks Enjoyed
SL Patrick's Party
An enjoyable evening was passed
at the home of Nella Halverson Friday
night. The first part of the evening
was spent
served, the Misses Nielson and prizes. A dainty lunch was
serve(
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAKOTA. THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1916.
Fingal Herald: We had the pleas-
Condensed Statement of Condition
Close of Business March 7th
State Examiner Call
RESOURCES
Loans and Discounts $ 208,188.90
Real Estate Owned 623.04
Cash Resources .. 269,782.20
$ 479,594.14
LIABILITIES
Capital Stock $ 50,000.00
Surplus and Profits 33,990 95
Deposits 395,603.19
$ 479,594.14
Bank of Valley City
A Good Bank to Do Business With
jn playing games and rid­
j() o'clock, after which moru
games and riddles were enjoyed, the
guests departing about 11 o'clock.
WORST TO EXPOSE
"LOOTING" OF A. C.
ma(
The home was
Fargo, March 16.—John H. Worst,
in a published statement demands of were about 75 present.
the State Board of Regents valid rea
sons for his removal from the position,
and he declares his purpose to be "the
exposure of the looting of the agricul
tural college."
The president refers to charges he
je when removed, that 'big busi-jand Miss Yeager. Later a very dainty
was attempting to gain con- lunch was served characterized by pop
trol of the college that certain ac-' corn balls and cakes having the Valley
tivities of the institution might be City High school initials on them
throttled. These included milling
investigations.
"I shall give in due time the full
history of the forces behind the move
probably take ment," Dr. Worst said. "The looting
of the agricultural college has become
a fixed belief in the mind of too many
to be dropped without ceremony.
Many still think the work is even yet
in its preliminary stages."
Entertained at Bunco Party
Miss Gladys Moe entertained the
ure of eating an orange from a box! K. K.'s and some boy friends Friday
which M. N. Olson received Saturday night at her home on Ninth avenue, at
morning direct from his orchard in a "bunco" party. The decorations
Cuba. Mr. Olson bought a tract or were in green in keeping with the day.
land on the island a few years ago! The evening was pleasantly spent in
and now has several acres of orange! music and games, the hostess serving
trees that are yielding. The fruit had
a much better flavor than that receiv
ed here the usual way. Mr. Olson is
well satisfied with his investment and
the amount to be realized in the fu
ture cannot be estimated.
light refreshments at the close.
Rebekabs Enjoy SocialEvening
The Rebekahs held a very enjoyable
social evening at the home of Mrs.
Robert Bailey on Third avenue last
Thursday evening. There .were about
25 ladies and gentlemen present and
cards formed the diversion for the
evening. At a late hour the hostess
served an elaborate lunch. The eve
ning was enjoyed by all.
Were Married in Fargo
The Fargo Forum of March 16 has
the following item of interest to many
Valley City folks:
"Fred Tooley, of Cook county, 111.,
and Emma Henderson, of Barnes coun
ty, N. D., were united in marriage by
the Rev. Mowery at the Congregational
parsonage yesterday afternoon."
Miss Henderson was the toll opera
tor at the Valley City telephone office
for three years and is well known. Mr.
Tooley was a barber at the Risa shop
for some time.
Grand Forks Pythians
Coming to Valley City
Garnd Forks, March 15.—The annual
meeting of the Grand Lodge Knights
of Pythias, domain of North Dakota,
together with the Pythian Sisters, will
hold forth at Valley City Wednesday
and Thursday of next week and an at
tendance of between 200 and 300 is ex
pected.
Grand Forks will be well represent
ed at the Valley City meeting, among
the past grand chancellors who are
going being Mayor James A. Dinnie,
George and Tracey Bangs, James
Culliton, Christ Hanson, Fred Good
man and J. B. Wineman.
The Grand Forks aggregation of
past grand chancellors and the local
Pythian Sisters will leave for Valley
City next Tuesday evening.
Reception a Splendid Success
The reception and social given in the
Methodist church Friday night to the
teachers, ball players and two upper
classes was a real success. There
The room had
been beautifully, decorated with th»
class colors and pennants. After some
enthusiastic games a short program
was given, consisting of a solo by Mrs.
Blumenshine, a comical duet and
__ short comedy by Gordon Vallandigham
Judging from the volume of sound and
genuine enthusiasm manifested, all
were speaking the truth when they
said they had a very good time. A
more enthusiastic and democratic
group would be hard to find. The of
ficial board with Mrs. F. G. Chambard,
chairman of the social committee, were
the hosts of the evening, and found
gr^at delight in the privilege.
Fingal Man Is Burned Out
in Fire at Minnewaukan
Minnewaukan, March 16.—A fire loss
of $35,000 was sustained here today
when flames completely destroyed a
building which contained the post
office, an opera house and a drug store.
The loss was partly covered by insur
ance. Firemen had hard work in sav
ing adjoining buildings.
Fingal Herald: A pioneer answer
ed the summons of the grim reaper
Friday morning at 2:30 when Erick Ol
son passed away after a lingering ill
ness of diabetes, at the advanced age
of 71 years.
Since the death of his wife, Mr. Ol
son has made his home with his
daughter, Mrs. Anton Auren. He is
survived by three daughters, Mrs. Ed
win Maasjo, Mrs. Ole Olstad and Mrs.
Auren, and a son Edwin N. Olson.
Deceased came to Barnes county
about 35 years ago and engaged in
farming, which occupation he carried
on successfully for a number of years.
He was a man of honest, upright char
acter and during his long life formed
a massive circle of friends who deeply
regret to learn of his passing.
The funeral will be held Monday aft
ernoon at 3 o'clock at Immanuel
church and interment made in the
cemetery there.
Mrs. John Bach, who has been visit
ing at the Walter Coop home the past
three weeks, returned to St. Paul
Thursday afternoon. She was accom
panied by Miss Marjorie Coop, who
will spend a week or ten days in the
Twin Cities.
First National Bank at
Casselton Is Reopened
At a meeting of the directors last
night Math Runch was elected presi
dent M. G. Straus, first vice presi
dent N. J. Ford, second vice presi
dent, and J. A. Krich, cashier. The
board of directors is composed of O.
F. Gray, F. G. Johnson, John Dittner,
Math Runck, M. G. Straus, N. J. Ford
and J. A. Krick. The capitalization
remains at $50,000, the same as prior
to the closing.
The reorganization of the institution
was affected by each of the directors
putting up $25,000 with the exception
of one, who put in $30,000 to cover the
alleged shortage and slow paper which
resulted in the indictment of the Kit
tels by a federal grand jury on com
plaints filed by United States District
Attorney Hildreth before United
States Commissioner Cuyler, charging
embezzlement of funds and the falsi
fication of accounts. At present R. C.
Kittel is at liberty on $10,000 bail
bonds, and W. F. Kittel on $5,000
bonds.
According to a report from Cassel
ton last night business men and farm
ers were rejoicing yesterday when the
institution opened its doors. The new
officers are well known in banking
circles of the state. Since the closing
of the institution, National Bank Ex
aminer Anheier of Fargo, has been ad
justing the affairs of the bank with a
view of bringing about a complete re1
organization. The announcement of
the re-opening was made by the bank
examiner yesterday morning.
Frank Town is moving on the Van
Steenberg section north of Oriska.
This farm was recently purchased by
Dr. Cram, of Sheldon, Iowa. The sale
was made by the Valley City Land Co.
Mrs. R. D. Beery and children have
gone to Mott for a visit of six weeks.
Normal Quintet Winner in One
of Season's Fastest Contests
The drug store destroyed was own-
Fingal Pioneer Passes Away
Fargo, March 15.—The First Na
tional bank at Casselton, which closed teams
its doors Dec. 6, 1915, due to the al
leged embezzlement of funds by R. C.
Kittel, former president, and W. F.
Kittel, cashier, and which was one of
the most sensational bank failures in
the northwest, re-opened for business
yesterday morning with the announce
ment that the creditors of the institu
tion would be paid dollar for dollar.
ESTABLISHED 1«7t.
Saturday night's basket ball game
between the Normal and High Bchool
teams was the most fascinating game
played in Valley City this season. The
Times-Record prophesied it would be
but this prophecy was difficult for
those who did not know the teams in
timately to understand, for the Nor
mal have disposed of the state univer
sity, the Moorhead normal and lots of
other big game here in the presence of
Valley City audiences, and while the
High school was cutting a big swath
in its field, it was just naturally as-
sume
ed by Oscar Olson, son of M. N. Olson, tious field. Each team was known to
of Fingal. No particulars as to the
amount of Mr. Olson's loss have been
received.
that it was a much less preten-
be leading its class and Saturday
night's game shows that Valley City
has two of the state's beat teams, re
gardless of class. The result of this
game was to correct a natural fallacy
in the public mind, not by destroying
one of its idols, but by giving it two.
There is no question by that the
High school gave the Normal the
hardest opposition they have had this
season. This means that the High
school put up a better game than the
university and other college teams.
The game was a neck-and-neck game
throughout. The High school led
slightly in the scoring during the first
half and in addition bombarded the
basket time and again without result.
Fortune favored the older boys, how
ever, in the second half and they
emerged at the end of the game with
the long end of a 20 to 27 score. The
play was fast, brilliant and fairly free
from fouling. The big fellows were
fast on their feet and good at the bas
ket, while the midgets excelled, as has
been their experience on other games,
in quick passing, team work and their
consequent ability to work out of tight
places. The honors were so abund
ant and so fairly even that then*
should be no bad taste left in anyone's
mouth.
One man was heard to remark that
they played like a groupe of older and
younger brothers, so evident was the
friendly feeling between the teams.
And in fact this in a sense is what rt
was, for all the Normal team were
Valley City boys and all but one
former High school players. The
rooting was fine. The day of the
rough-neck and vicious rooter seems
to be a thing of the past in Valley
City. The rooting squads showed the
very highest courtesy to each other,
to the opponents' teams and to the
officials. They were there to com
municate zeal to their respective
and not to prevent the best
work of the enemy or to question de
cisions and interfere with the doling
out of justice by men carefully chosen
by the management. Valley City not
only has climbed to the top in the
ranks of players, but she has gotten
to a point where she may also bd
proud of her rooters.
Entertained at Dinner
Mrs. Edwin Jacobson entertained
Friday afternoon in honor of Mr.
Jacobson's sister, Mrs. Edith Bour
bonnais, who will soon leave for Page
to make her future home. The after
noon was spent in crochetting and so
cial conversation, and at 6 o'clock the
hostess served a delicious dinner.
There were six ladies present and a.
delightful afternoon was spent.
Farewell Party to Miss Bong
Mrs. Chas. Otto and Mrs. Frank.
Thompson gave a farewell party Fri
day night, at the home of Mrs. Otto,
for Miss Nancy Bong, who will soon,
leave for her western trip. There
were 12 guests present to enjoy the
delicious 6 o'clock dinner, the color
scheme of green being carried out in
the menu. The center piece was a
train of cars, decorated with green,
flags, the place cards being tiny suiu
cases. Green candles added much to
the artistic effort, while shamrocks
were in evidence in many ways. Af
ter the dinner, 500 was the diversion
for a while, and the guest of honor
was presented with a small trunk,
(containing gifts from the guests that
would be useful on her trip, many
useful and pretty articles as well as
some funny ones being included in the
list. The evening was a very enjoy
able one. Miss Bong leaves soon for
a visit at Duluth, Minn. ,and will then
go on to the coast for a three or
four months' trip.
To see and know the worst is to»
take from fear its main advantage.
•r!i
wjj
vVl
