Historical Societ
State
aney County Republican
FORSYTH. MISSOURI, THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1916.
Four Pigei-
THE BIG DAM OF THE OZARK POWER & WATER CO.. NEAR FORSYTH.
f.w, il. 1 .. , ':
4
iWis . IS v "T i ' "
i:yv"-' .J 'i, '.ri , iff- -
-r tfuxs? . r ? ? ' .11- i rf
'iw f. it w II v'
1
F,m , nhotomoh taken iust alter the final closure was made, March 24th, 1913. The dam is 1200 feet lone and 50 feet hiRh. The spillway is 600 feet wide. Th,s pcture shows about m
ol wat on op the p way In the pas. few months there has been almost fitan fee, of water on the spillway. Electric current generated here transmuted to Spnngfield, oplm and
Ser pdots for 1 gh, Xer. The transmission line from the plant toSptingfield carnes 66,000 vol,, Many of ,he mines in ,he Jophn d.smc, are now opera.ed by electney Irom ,h.s plan.
Washington Letter
(From Our Uonulnr Corrpsponilciit.)
Fruits of "watchful waiting:"
--President Wilson's "watchful waif
ing" has at last borne fruit. For the
first time in nearly a hundred years a
foreign enemy has had the impunity to
invade the United States, murder its
citizens and shoot its soldiers. This
is what occured at Columbus. New
Mexico, when Villa and his lollowers
invaded that town. And this is the
fruit of Mr. Wilson's "watchful wait
ing," the result which has been fore
told by everyone familar with Mexican
conditions and the shiftless, inconsistent
air! nhsiinate nolicv of this Adminis
tration. It is just what some at least,
Mr. Wilsons own advisers, including
Secretary Garrison, have repeatedly
warned him would happen. Villa firm
ly convinced that President Wilson was
"too proud to fight," and that the
American people were too cowardly
to avenge the most Migrant outrages
on their own citizens and counting on
V. 13V nf nrrnartdness which this
Administration has to assiduously fos
tered, actually invaded American ter
ritory and took American lives. That
Villa counted correctly on the unpre
pared condition of the army H abund
antly proved by his escape and the
length of time it is requiring to or
ganize a force sufficient to follow him.
Meanwhile every hour's delay is mak
ing the situation more serious, is in
creasing the danger of war a general
intervention. The ablest ofrkers in
the army have long urged upon the
President, through Secretary Garrison,
the importance of keeping the array
alone the Mexican boundary supplied
with every requisite for a quick dash
into Mexico. They have believed the
time must inevitably come when such
a step would be necessary, and they
have insisted that if it did arrive the
army should be in condition to strike
instantly, to pursue those responsible
for such outrage without hesitation, to
punish them and then withdraw before
all of the Mexican people became in
Aimed with resentment and fear of
general intervention. But thse warn
ings have fallen on deaf ears. Officers
at the front have been told that "un
der no circumstances" would they be
permitted to cross the Mexican border,
and that their urgent recommendations
that they be supplied with autoroo-
Viil 'rannnnrt. kfft SUDDlied with
rations for an emergency expedition,
etc., were foolish, because there never
would be any invasion of Mexican ter
ritory. Even the brief purs it ol Villa
and his force was ordered by a subor
dinate officer, General Pmhing, iu
violation of President Wilion'a explicit
orders and at a time when Mr. Wilson
was "instituting negotiations" with a
view to securing Carranza's permission
to follow Villa.
tent to which unpreparedness has grown
during the almost three years before
Mr. Wilson changed his mind on that
subject. They assert that nine out of
every ten requests for supplies from the
forces along the Mexican boundary
have been refused on the ground that
Villa and Carranza were patriots and
that, no matter what happened in Mex
ico, there would never be any order
from Washington to use the military
lorces along the border. Discussing
the aforenamed Mexican "patriots" at
Indianoplis, just a year ago, Mr. Wil
son said, "and as far as my influence
goes while I am President nobody
shall interfere with them." With
such assertions publicly made by the
Commander-in-Chief of the army, even
the small standing army which this
country now has and which because of
its smallness, should be maintained at
the highest point of efficiency, has be
come demoralized. There was one
machine gun at Columbus and it got !
out of order almost immediately there j
xas an attempt to use it while expert
army officers insist that this type of
gun has long been known to be de
fective but that there have been no
funds to remodel them, Conditions in
the navy are almost as bad, although
the strict censorship which Secretary
Daniels maintains, prevents the facts
from reaching the public while every j
officer who tells the facts, even to j
Committees of Congress, is made to
sufler for his truthfullness.
have been kept out and long before
this there would not have been a car
tridge, and hardly a rifle in Mexico
But instead, Mr. Wilson lifted the env
bargo on arms from the Uuited State;
and encouraged American manufac
turers to fill the orders of the revolu
tionists for both arms and ammunition.
CULPABLE UNPREPAREDNESS:
Army and navy officers, although th-v
speak with thf digr of - dimiil hv
court-martial -v"'!! "" ' rr
tbetn, ttll wl'U 9tw: ln '
Killed With American Rifles:
The civilians and soldiers who were
killed at Columbus were shot with
American rifles, according to Major
C. E. Gillette. U S. A , Retired.
"The guns and bullets used bv Villa's
men to kill Americans in Columbus
were furnished by President Wilson to
Villa, against whom he never would
listen to a suggestion," says Major
Gillette. "The responsibility for the
latest Mexican outrage, like all that
have preceded it and all that will
Inllnw it. rests saoarely on the shoul
ders of President Wilson. Had he not
deliberately wrecked the Huerta gov
ernment peace would have followed
within three months after Mr. Wilson
took office and all the horrors that
have followed would have been avoid
ed." Many men familiar with con
ditions in Mexico and acquainted
with the character of Villa and Car
ranza long ago begged the President,
not only to enforce the embargo on
on arms going into Mexico,
but after outrages on Americans in
that country became common, to de
mand immediate indemnity and de
clare a "peaceful blockade" of Mexi
can porta until it was paid. England,
Germany and France, it will be re
called, declared such a blockade of
Venezuela, after demanding an in-
rlirnnitv ol Castro. In that case it
was dissoled as a result of arbitration
Had Mr. Wilson ordered such a block
ade of Mexico, no American soldier
r . d have iuvaded Mexican territory
but all armj and ammunition could
Indiana's fine Showing: Fur
ther advices from Indiana afford evi
dence of tremendous return of erst
while Progressives to the Republican
party. Secretary Henley, o! the State
Central Committee, points out that in
every instance the largest Republican
gains were made in what had been
Progressive strongholds. 'The Re
publicans made their greatest gain in
Wayne County," says Mr. Henley.
"Wayne was rated the banner Prores
sive'County in the country. In 1914
its Republican vote for Secretary of
State was only3,07S, but in there
cent primaries the Republicans of that
County cast 4,702 votes."
It Makes Some Difference
Secretary McAdoo got very touchy
when James I. Green, Democratic
Stale Senator of Massachusetts asked
McAdoo to give Green's brother a job
in the Boston Custom House, the
Senator declaring that his own action
as delegate to the Democratic National
Conventional would be influenced by
the Secretary's attitude toward brother
Green. McAdoo saw in this a good
chance to advertise himself as san
peur et san reproche, so he published
Green's letter, together with his ans
wer thereto, calling Green down and
refusing his request. But when five
members of the McAdoo household
wanted a little spending money pro
vided from the public till, they were
placed on the Government roll withojt
publicity.
Then and Now
Under a Democratic administration
of the Navy Department only fifteen
battleships have men enough to en
able them to take part in maooeuvers.
Under a Republican administration
more ships than that were able to take
the record-breaking trip around the
world.
The local board of strategy held a
meeting in Forsyth the other day and
decided that the attempt to capture
Villa was all wrong; that the army
officers did not know what they were
about; that there were not near enough
men being sent into Mexico at this
time, and last, but not least, admitted
that none of the members of said board
cared to take the place of any man on
the Job.
Business preparedness is going to
I
r.piu Rftmi ronsiaeration one vi
these days as well as military prepar
There is more chance of
raising a big smoke with the military
brand than with the other, and that
probably accounts for the Democratic
preference lor that brand.
Premature Developments in Mexico
The aggressive armed action in Mex
ico which the Administration has been
hoping to postpone until about three
weeks befcre the election has been
brought about three months before the
nominating conventions.
The Villa raid upon Columbus, New
Mexico, and the consequent killing
of fourteen American citizens one of
them a woman the death of nine
American soldiers and the wounding of
eipht others brought matters to a crisis.
Gen. Perishing, American command
era son-in-law of Senator Warren of
Wyoming, by the way ordered his men
in pursuit of the Villaista bandits and
our troops penetrated fifteen miles into
Mexican territory.
The last time that anything of this
kind occurred was when a detachment
of American troops crossed the south-
j ero border to rescue two of their com
rades who had been captured
by the Mexicans. The officers re
sponsible for that action were immidi
ately ordered before a court rmriial for
their disregard of "watchful waiting."
but it is entirely unlikely that such a
fate awaits Gen. Pershing. Public
j opinion here and all over the country,
if one can judge by.the uterances of
the press, sustains the unauthorized
action which Gen. Pershing took; and
if the administration should fail in any
way to stand by him there would be
an outbreak of resentment, in Congress
and elsewhere, which could not be
withstood. Consequently, several
hours after the news reached here,
Secretary Lansing solemnly informed
the Mexican Ambassador of
what eveibody well knew, namely,
that American troops had passed upon
Mexican soil in pursuit of raiders.
It thus appears that the period of
"watchful waiting" has been brought
to a close earlier than its author had
intended. Many people here have
thought that the Presiednt planned to
hold his hand in Mexico until some
critical moment just prior to election
day, when he would make a brave
show of indignation and undertake
punitive measures which would justify
a demand for re election on the ground
that the country was in a state of war
and should not change its rulers.
This idea, if it ever existed, has now
dissipated.
J. U. MILLS, President
M. 1). SLUSH LK, Cashier
Bank of Bradleyville
Bradleyville, Mo.
Capital Stock Paid In,
Surplus Earned, -
$10,000.0?
2,000.09
Collections a Specialty
WE SOLICIT YOU P BUSINESS
J. V. MELTON, G MILLS, J- B. MILLS,
J. T- MePJIEUSON', M. 15. SLUSHEH, Directors
Fine Place to Fish
Fine Place to Stop
Hotel Forsyth,
Forsyth, Mo.
Rates $2.00 per Day
S. E. MILLER,
Proprietor.
Agency Frank B. Smith Laundry
.. .
P32
2E3&SSS3EZ25
The Nelson Hotel
J. W. NELSON, Proprietor
One-Half Block South of the Court House.
Why is a mossback? He is not
worth a tinker's benediction to any
community in which he chances to be,
and more than that he will discourage
men who would work for the better
ment of the country if left alone.
Every community has them, just the
same as a dog has fleas, and they are
to a community just about what the
fleas are to the dog just a continual
aggravation.
If there are any Democrats in the
county who are thinking of running for
office this year, they can have their an
nouncements published in this paper
under the same conditions and for the
same price that we charge the Re
publican candidates.
Rates $1.00 per Day
First Class Accommodations.
A Good Feed Stable in Connection.
When You Need Printing
For any purpose, anything from a Sale Bill to a Catalogue,
or want to advertise an7thing, bring your wants to the shop
that turns out first class work at reasonable pricei and turns
it out promptly. This paper reaches mere homes in Taney
Count? than any other publication in the world. See us.
Taney County Republican, Missouri.
