; - :T1'' T7-Y7 - vrYV
":lT-
I
cut
. -
Western (Sairblfea -Deinniocr at
VOLXX1I1,. NO 11
HENDERSONVILLE, N. THURSDAV MARCH 23, 1916
1.00 PER YEAR, IN ADVANCE
- v -
. . . ' v-V , . , 1 . ;
801I1PRIGES
liA
TO GO 1 HIGHER
- VI
pK0MltNT 3IEN BELIEVE TOP
()T('H HAS BEEN REACHED.
rol'XTKT AROUSED.
OIL INDUSTRY EXPANDING
Better lupines and Possibility of Car
tfakers Producing Fuel Has i Ef
fect Ford Appealed To.
Any news touching on the price of
proline is seized on witlf avidity by
t'u" nublic all over the country. The
newspapers are using columns of space
daily to put facts and theories before
tbe people.
The Hustler last "week carried a long
article on the soaring price of gasoline.
Ia it it was declared, by experts and
by wholesalers from different parts of
tte country that the price would stead
ily mount higher, until by mid-summer
40c a gallon would be the . cost of the
fuel to car owners. Already it is 30c
ia Hendersonville, several cents higher
than elsewhere in this section.
At is good news to car owners that
is contained in the following story
from The World, New York:
"Alfred Reeves, General Manager of
tio National Automobile Chamber of
Commerce .expressed the opinion re
cently that motorists need not fear 40
cent -gasoline. He believes the top
price has been about reached. -
"I see no justification for the pessi
mistic predictions of a famine in mo
tor fuel," said Mr. Reeves to a World
reporter. "The higher prices, for crude
o'l, are causing old wells to be reopen
ed. and new ones to be drilled. Appli?
cation of the improved processes for
extracting a larger proportion of gas
oline will increase tthe supply. Chemi
cal science will continue to improve
those processes, and theywill also dis?
coTer substitute fuels. . i
tfotor. Improvement TYIll Help.
"Another factor will be the improve;
cent of existing motors.- Say, all we
may about the 'efficiency'' of present 1
tvT'P' ad we know. ttfatTiel tnlernalii
wmuusuon engine; is capaaie .01 suit
greater improvement, and 'that" it Jrtli
come.. Tnere never was a greater
need that was not eventually filled by
invention. Chemists and engineers
have gone to work on this power prob-I
lem with an energy not known when
fuel was cheap and the incentive to in
vention was not so apparent.
"Automobile manufacturers are '
of course, vitally -interested in this j
problem of fuel supply. I think they .
are generally of the opinion that-the in-
dustry would be injured by permanent-
y mgn pricea ruei. -iney are watcn
ing this situation very closely, recog
nizing that an abundant supply of fuel
is essential to their business. But they
are also awake to the fact that econ-
0m nf fnpl io rmitf o a imnortanf- na
abunflano t iri Mine (m.
presses upon manufacturer and owner
the lesson of economy it will not have
been so great a calamnity, after all."
Manufacturers Are Awake.
t Charles F. Riess, distributor of the
Hupmobile and Stearns-Knight cars
in w Vav o? !,. fr.nm v, nnint
of view of "Automobile Row" the pres- i
ent price of gasoline appears to have
been fixed arbitrarily. "There is no
"bortage in available supply; you can
tuy all the gasoline you ask for," he '
said, "it is not as it is when there is
an announced coal shortage and the
dealer delivers one ton where you or- .armory is in an conaiwon couBmcr
r Ave. Gsllne is selling now for ing the small amount of moneye
V! cents a gallon in Denver. Califor- ceived for maintenance. Uast yjar
E?a nroducers are just reopening wells the- county commissioners gave $4o
$at wej shu down during the glut ac : c;ity authorities d?naJtl
of the market. v fo the maintenance of the armory.
"In my opinion the automobile man- One year the men gave their entire
nfacturers who control an Industry pay for the whole year towards equlp
ftat is now the fourth In importance ping steel lockers and other necessi
h the United States, should take the tiee for the armory.
f:iel Drobiem in hnrt Tf neeMsarv ; Cantain Ladd and hip men are anx
tkey should follow the suggestion n
Houry por4 aT)(J enibark.in the' refining
p38iness themselves. A dozen refini
leies scattered over the country at
Points comneHnE' with the bisr con-
compeiiinK competition. Of. course,
wis problem would be in the distribu-
titta but with their f facilities-ln everv't
Jmpprtant city the- large-motor; com-
Paaies conW -nrfr vnf a .vSifem."' ...
Ford Appealed To. : . - : ' would biapetitwlth the local busi- certain that he would be. able, to get
HepresenUtive Randall, of Califor- ' nesi house everyyear Even if pass-' the assistance of the prominent preach
has appealed to Henry Ford to use,. it would he some time before the ers. and teachers published below..ta
W brain and resources in finding some increase would Uki effect. " !. attend the school this summer. Hehas
-y to reduce th cost of easoime o
reasonable Agues. It is proposed that j'
?ne of -several methods be- used. It I vl
stated that Ford has .e-matter
cr conwderatiea. and ? win maae v
to Mr. TUndall soon.
LOCAL TALENT AT QUEEN.
onw cf 'timpntiXtli&oie':
to be Heard fo rBehefit ot Hospital j
on March 29ttu . ?
A chorus of twenty-two voices Vf
m men nf WnnrtPrsAnvilU ia now
being trained for a concert to be gjven
t the Oueen theater on te nf?rht of
Mirch 29, for the Patton Mc orial
hcsDital. Besides ponular chorus
scpec anft ni,5,-fpHia thpre will' be
"bistling, etc. Tickets are now being '
for the performance .which, pro-'
mes to be of the very highest class,
JUDGE M. IL JUSTICE.
; Judge Justice has been very promi nently spoken of for the Demoocratic
nomination for Congress in the Tenth District. ,.Hia name will be before the
-primary June 3. In a recent article published in the Hustler of which con
tained an. interview with a Justice sup porter it was stated that the Judge
' t .3 " 41 a TlAiAr An ib"
TOUIU carrj(iJuiucnuiu ncuuwoy ; .. v. - -
lare-vfiteinAhe Western Counties which would enable him. to have a fair
lead over the nearest opponent. - - .
6THC0WI
't irrnvft
CAPTAIN GREIG AND COL. STRIA U
FIELD TO-- INSPECT COMY 6
COAST AEJIIL-LERx tlUJJAX.
I
CAPT. LADD IS HERE .
x . ,
r.m Hem Two Weeks Ago to Get His
Company In hape r the An-
nual inspecuon.
The Sixth company of Coast Artil-
. a.:
lery will undergo annual mspecuuu
Friday. March 24
when Captain A.
Greig of the United States army ana
Col. Thomas Stringfield of the state
mijitia win review the local boys,
. v T -AA nrrjVP(i in the city
Captain R. V. Ladd .arrived in tne enj
two weeks ago from Hopewell, y a., ,
whprp h holds a responsible position,
to get his company in .condition .for;,
the inspection. Extradrills have been
held recently and it is said that me
local company is in fine trim. i
Captain Ladd stated that his men,
wer ready, to be called into series
any time should they be neeaea. vine
ious that the county ana. city aumuii
ties give as much if not a. small in-;
crease In what was given last year to
the local military company.
Should the pending military out j".
Caotam Ladd
figures that this company will receive
in the neighborhood of $5,000 In pay,,,
basedT on 2r perVt;ent -of .the . regular .
army pay; -Thia would mean that;
wMniMU arf - ifi "mohey v receited-
i , -. . , :
HOUStON SOK MOTE.
;ev
a. Pace a StTeata- Aienw iotw;
TkSsir;Ufe.wlaar .'BosinesfcSv.?
vedjad :nvwholieale and W
tafl 'flour, graihs" and . feeds,will .mot
- - yjrntrK' otrvt tn new-Quarters
seventh avenue about April 1i A lobri
lease was "recently, closed with D. .S,
Pace, the owner. folJnifc
Seventh ' avenue, leading from me
. tt t.a inorhViPra of one
Aiessrs nouB u qt fpM stoi
?enw ise Datronage. The
f.lla enjoy, a wbc v mi
new
pt-ipl, tlieV Will IQaKc Will!
move Wiiiv" . r"'. . I
give them
'onsideraDie more noor
tuuB. ... ...
space -and- modem ,Jart8q Wltb
'closer access to railroad facilities.
BHMBMMPMMMMWMMiMaWBMIIIir I M I''
fnisrotW:rlCi(1QTlTliM
j. iiuvi unrj) '.-'.X-V "fH1 .;. r
Ifutherfordton, N. C.
- . . .
PIM1
RET. WRIGHT ' ANNOUNCES NAMES
OF FACULTY OF BIBLE INSTI
TUTE TO BE HELD HERE.
PROKIKBM HIS'CCVIFG
' 7".'
Lis1 Not Complete; Includes Dr. Gulhe
of Moly Institute of Chicaro.
Work Progressing'.
"Work is progressing satisfactory in
the organization of the Bible Institute
to be conducted her this summer un-
bright, pastor of the East Henderson-
vine Baptist hurch. Mr. Wright has
been working several months on the
preliminary plans for this institute and
jv week did he know for
,0
Rev. 4Geoffge,.JT. Wright -
uteu.unwius u, u.wu5.
epbndence ...with - a, number of very
prominent teachers and speakers rel
ative to coming to Hendersonville this
aummer. ', .-. -'''"'.--
Among Jthose-'l'haTU'iejttejned
WilUngnesa ; '.In- thfe work and
are coming here tHis I summer -will be :
Dr. C. I. Stacy; -pastor of the First
Presbyterian church; at Lakeland." Fla.;
"Dr, Julien S "-Rogers, - pastor River
side Baptist church, at Jacksonville;
i Rev. D. H. Comann, evangelist of the
I TTT .J. M IT St XI ll.tL
Odist church.'
Rev. W. H. Woodall. Bible teacher on
Asheville. - T. ,
t t- c? cn..
. uaiici uuujj, jJHiit o-tictaij jl
it. i ii o..j i i . i
i-'rui aiuiiuii cuuuujr suuuui asouti-
' .
- Kev R V Milh
U. K. V. Miii
er. .iJibie- teacher or
. ' ' '
UEWSPAPERS
NOW ORZGANTZED
Successful Meeting in Asherllle With
'. a j DoEn Papers Represented.
- Name Selected.
:.Asthe result of a call for the week
ly newspaper editors and publishers
to meet in Asheville. on Friday and
S's.iurday of last weelrthe North Caro
lina Weekly Press Association came
in Ur. being. Much interest and euthu
siasm. was displayed by the men pres
ent. who-represented more than a
dozen- different weekly papers. ; Mu
tual cp-operation and helpfulness with
special stress xqn exploiting the re
sources of .this, section were adopted
the prime reasons for the organiza
tion. ' " . . .. '. . "
Edwin McGili; of Jthe McGill Adver-
tising.ftgency, was appointed to repre
sent the association -in AshevIlle and
he will open an office at an early date
in the American National bank build
ing ':- - ' ' "
.,Qf3cers were elected: Noah M. Hol
lo well Sylvan Valley; News, president;
Broadup' H DePriestj Aurora High
lander,; first vice ' president : R. L
Sandridge, Bryson City Times, second
vied ? president ; Ora L. "Jones, Sylvan
Valley News; secretary; , W. P. Little,
Trypn 5 News-Bee, treasurer ; ' executive
committee, v J. D. Boone,: Carolina
Mountaineer, Gordon P.: Garlineton,
French Broad Hustler; R. D. Marsh,
Rutherford ton Sun; Dan Tompkins,
of the Jackson County - Journal was
MY
; l!ri, Zn wuuiywuurnw w. vicea ofone of Charlotte's leading ar
elected historian, and Horace Sentelks chilpftts.,Jame M MTvnTMi
of the Canton Observer, orator; while
J. D." Boone of the Carolina Mountaineer-will
be the poet.
- B. B. CARTER DEAD.
Burnett Carter, formerly of Alaba
ma, but for, the past few years a resi
dent ;pf' Hendersonville ,died last Mon
day after. v a lingering illness. The
I sympathjrf of the community sjoes out
hi, KprmvpH wfp anrl ninths
to his bereaved wife and mother,
I0GUSM
s: '
. Augusta, Ga., March 231 Fire which
has caused damage estimated- at from
$5,000,000 to $8,000,000 in the heart of
Augusta's business district, and the
adjoining residence district, still burn-
5 ed briskly early today, in residential
sections, undjer the influence of a high
wind. Firemen were unable to say
whe nthe flames could be controlled,
but expressed the hope that owing to
the smaller buildings now in its path
the fire would respond to efforts to
quench it.
"BUILD NOW CAMPAIGN ISSUE
TO APPEAR NEXT WEEK.
The French Broad Hustler will con
tain from 12 to 16 pages next week in
a Build Now" edition. The many
building supply houses, paint and
hardware stores, contractors; etc $vill
hare valuable announcements along
with special inducements to build now.
To anyone contemplating building
bow this issue wfll be of great finan
cial benefit. ' .c ' ".
. .Place your name for a copy., at -anj-of
the newsdealers or uX the Hustler
a.,. ere; Extra copies wIOn be printed f&
jaeet the demands. .:-ix
News from Washington .states- that
Ncrth Carolina is one :;of isix tates
which have planned to send 'officers to
take the course in aviation offered by
the Aero club. The other '.' Statac are
Nebraska", Connecticut, Arkansas,': West
Virginia and Vermon. ';'.
Hendersonville d'-
; Prof, Rad O. Bell, evangelistj singer
of Rome, Ga. - - . ""
. . E. L Walslagle, of AsberiUe, evan
gelist singerv. y
Rev. CJ. L. ver ta of . the .Chapman
Alexander party : will hev here two
weeks .during the summer. ;
rlfr TXr VZZn J fered- to"a permanent bed,, but .that
f-i08! J'c4h annpaffrdb-liot take ktedly to
e.n bsuouw u
uua.B. -2rj ;
3Rev; W. D.: Wakefield, pastor tearty iainotbeds or cold tranie3:
5econd Baptist ..church, at 4Xlumbiaj Ageratum;' ' Alyssum, Aster; Calen.
S. C -; r , . :'- '- (dcla orpot marigold, Calliopsi Cam
- Rev.: George - White, pastor of the .nulaJCastor bean, .Chrysanthemum,
Ph'st Baptist church at Union. S. C.- I C&ekscomb, Cosmos, . Pour-O'clock,
": Rev. CVS. Blackburn, pastor t)f the GodethlaMarigold: Petunia, Sweet WH
First Baptist church at Greer,-S.' C. - ' iliam, Scotch pink, Scarlet pink, Scarlet
Miss Sarah Miller wilt act in the ca-! sage, and Verbena. ' "I '
pacity of pianist during the Institute j Flowers for Outdoor Transplanting
and will teach music. - ' ' : j "The seed .of some of the flowers 11st-
This list of members of the faculty
who will attend the Institute periods,
drring the summer is only a partial
nnc ntha nomoo viii hp. aitdM later.'
waic vv- umu .
I rnv.yv an .nhAnl r-Mo-rtm tiaa int
..xu.o tjuaua svuuuj -
. , . orill n mnriMiYint.!
v . . . . a ' . 1 . T . . 7
-later, it will Degm sonieuuie m jui,.
mewMowtm
- . ', ... - . ..
:. I i "1 TT "IT :'?"
It 1 , f mi m
I.. Ji CAMERON, SAID TO BE REPR1
CAME HERE AND GOT OPTIONS
PROPERTY FOR
PUBLIC IS STILL
11 is Known That James M. McMichaiel,
Here to Inspect the Property Witfr
Since last week additional light has
been brought upon the proposed $150,
000 new hoter- for Hendersonville; in
the shape of securing 60 days option
for Main street property at a consid
eration of something over $10,000. The
grantors of the options are J. W.JMcIn
tyre, H. M, King, W. P. Whitmire, .Miss
Florance Jordan, Mrs A. E. Hart: The
grantees of the option "are L J.' Cam-,
bron; M. '. E.Boyer, and Chas. M.
Sfcheneck, said to be members of a ho
tel syndicate. The property Is lo
cated along Main street between
Sixth and Seventh avenue, east. The
prices, of the options were $1 and other
valuable. considerations. , - ' f
ProBiInent Architect Employed.
Nothfiog of any more definite nature
was dtfulged from the promoters than
the fact that, they had secured the ser-
here andMnspect the propertyand to I
make plans for a hotel to cost in the 1 assisted in getting the options for Mr. "
neighborhood of $150,000. The hotel, is , Cambron stated that all he could say -said
to be planned for tourist and com-1 was , that so . far the committee had met
mercial travels L. J. Cambron, of whom J every requirement asked of them and
the secretary of the Board, of Trade : that: they . were taking Mr. Cambron
has had considerable correspon- on good-faith 'and felt that he would
dence with and long distance messages tniake; publiQ4 his entire proposition at
from in reference to the porposed thev proper time. Until then the Hen
hotel, stated in his conversation withi dersonyille public is more or less in
a committee of the Board of Trade the dark oh the new hotel situation.
mm
SOME VALUABLE INFORMATION AS
TO PROPER ATTENTION TO
V GARDEN PLOTS IN SPRING.
OUTDOOfWArfllNG
Hendersonville, Housewives GIt In
creased Attention to Ornamental
Flowers and hrubs.
.
An increasing interest in the plant
ing andx care of ornamental flowers,
especially of roses, is plainly noticea
ble among the women of Henderson
ville. Nothing gives the home plot a
more attractive finish than the judici
ous us of flowers, shrubs and bushes.
But care must be given these or un
satisfactory results are sure to follow.
A few timely suggestions concerning
roses and annual flowers that are
placed 1n ones yard are here offered
Hendersonville thrifty housewives. '
' Priming Rose Bushes.
Climbing roses should not.be pruned
at this time except for the removal of
surplus branches. ' 'iSvery bit of wood
rcmoved-bw reduces the amount of
bloom -the ; plant will ' bear during the
ccming season. : .Roses used in border
planting should be treated in exactly:
the- same way as other shrubs, except
that many: of these species will be im-pmv-G&
b$ -. having all their old wood
cut.; away once -. in' every, five or six
years. '; This would mean cutting all
the old canes off within three or four
inches of the ground and forcing the
.bush to. throw up entirely new wood.
: Roses 'used for cut flowers, like the
hybrid perpetuals, the hybrid teas,
and teas; should" he severely pruned.
The hybrid- perpetuals may be cut as
soonr as freezing weather ia past.
Ptunlng of: the "hybrid teas and teas,
howeyer, should 1 be left until the
young gro wth j has started. In both
cases the plant should be cut to with-'
in 6 finches or 1- foot of ' the ground.
Pour or six eyes to a stem,, is about;
the proper amount of wood to leave.
' Outdoor Flowera. . u. .
Those planning their flower heds for
the-coming seasons' should remember
that certain annual flowers can' be
-transplanting. The 'following annual
flowers which can be transplanted give
ioartlcularly raod' CresulU if started
ed below need not be started In hot-
beds, but 'can be sown later in the
season in the open "ground and then
fhnsnliintAH fn -their-nermri put loca-
J . 7
- tiV.no ? Tho ' cc&A .'rf ' "themes flnwpre
rv - . , - -"" .. '. - -
- irt,,' ,nnt Kn t.nmn until' tha crrnHTi!'
. "' JJfiS T " . JS ' 'n JS
it in cuuuiuuu iur iuanuig a sujju sceu
Hi
ft
mpose
ersanvi
SEN7TING A HCTEL SYNDICATE
C3'.$1(M&: W0RT3 OF MAIN STv
SIXTY DAYS, -
IN THE DARK
an Architect of Charlotte Has Been
Tlew to Drawing Plans for HoteL
here -Tuesday that his company pro
posed to build a modern hotel in every
respect. . They did "not expect to make
it pay ; from the start; but that Hen
dersonville looked good to them as a
city, with 'a great future and that they
felt', that Hendersonville was in need
of a modern hotel C'He proposes an
absolute 'fire proof building construct
ed upon enough ground to have a main
entrance through a small park ' and
enough additional grounds for tennis
courts, etc. . . i. .' ' , .
r-v ; V -Who Is Cambron?
Mr. Cambron has not as yet , deemed
it wise to give his entire scheme to
the public. In fact the only, informa
tion ad, far obtained in -reference to'
him is that 'he is making . Asheville
heaptjQuarters and does not seem to be
a "hot air artist," but on the contrary
appears to be a ; cool ; level, headed
business man. r
Public in the Dark.
A-prominent local business man who
San Antonio, Texas, ;March j22.-r-Re.
porta that General Luis Her r era, com
manding two ' thousand men at Chi
huahha, had " aligned himself with
Rfancisca Villa against, the -United
Stages, was. received- tonight with
grave concern' by Gen Funston and
his staff. " Officially and,i unofficially
the; opinion here was that with Herre
ra joining forees with Villa the interr
national situation might easily be
made so complex that by comparison
the pursuit of Villa would be regard
ed as incidental.
CLARKE HARDWARE SOLD. -
C. P. Bland of Washington, N. C'
purchased last week the entire stock
of goods owned by the Clarke Hard
ware company. The change will take
effect . May 1. Mr. Bland:: returned to
Washington, after closing the deal, to ,
wind up his affairs relative - to moving
to: Hendersonville. R. C. Clarke, the
proprietor of the Hardware, company
wjil . ' devote all . his attention; to the
First Bahk & Trust company of which
he was recently, elected president.
- Definite arrangements have not been'
'madej' but it is understeed' that
Rhodes, Clarke and Jackson, automo
bile dealers, will retain . headquarters
in. the same building with. thjEt..-sw; .
hard ware"concern. ' ' : V
bed. and until there is no longer like
lihood of a heavy frost in the -locality.
A good test to determine whether the -garden
soil can be worked well Is to
take up a mass of it in the hand and
compact it into a balL If this ball
readily falls apart,, the ground is dry.
enough to' be worked. It Is particu
larly important in planting flowers
to spade up the ground fine it thor-;
oughly with hoe and rake and remove, '
the stones ' and lumps from it. The.
actual; surface should "be :made " very
fine and soft. In planting each kind
of , seed the directions as to.depth of
planting, should ' be carefully followed."
Flowers that can be sown in this way
are;'- .-': -..'.'''; ,'' '". - ' -:-r ' '
geratum. Alyssum. Aster, Pot. ma-''
rigold, Calilopsls, Campanula, Clarkia
(shade), Cocksoomb, Dahlias, single'
iGodeUa, Gaillardl Mignonette, Pansy,,
Pinks, RudbeCkia, Snapdragon Stocks,"
Zinnias. - - . - - - v -'
Most of these may- be sown earlier .
in a hotbed coM frame anbr thuslje
mtde ;to" bloom 'sooner. ; - ''
Annuals -iBjured M Transplaaffes. t
- Certain. flowers, however, die or do'
not ? do well if they; are tansplanted;
These, therefore, sbouldbe sown only
in the open ground or beds where the,
piants are to grow. , The varieties
which it is hest to sowin a permanent
location are:
' California poppy. Candytuft, . Corn ,
flower, Forget-me-not, Lobelia, Nemo
phi la'- (shade). - Phlox . drummondii,
Sunflower. Sweet peas'. : j' . ' X n ."
Sweet peas should be in the ground
as soon as it is dry enough to work:
a
Us
I
t ,
