THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX N0.x 7.
HAHKE, VERMONT, THURSDAY, MAIICII 23, 1910.
Pit ICE, ONE CENT.
ft
4
r
ALL NORTHERN MEXICO
. IS SEETHING IN REVOLT
General Luis Herrera With Army Has
Left the Carranza Government and
Gone Over to the Villa Forces Which
Are Resisting the United States Forces
EL PASO FEARS ATTACK
FROM MEXICAN REBELS
GERMAN ATTACK
AGAIN SHIFTED
EAST OF VERDUN
All Night Long There Were Rumors
of Attack But Each Time the Reports
Proved Baseless and People Breathed
Easier When Daylight Came
Violent Bombardment Took Place East
of Meuse River West of the Mo
use the Fire Has Slackened.
Pari. March 25. The French official
statement, published this morning, says
that during the night a violent bombard
merit took place east of the Meuse river.
Went of the, Mouse the fire diminished
in intensity and the general situation is
unchanged.
THREE LINES OF
TRENCHES TAKEN
BY THE RUSSIANS
Suc-
1 El Taso, Texas, March 23. Private advices reaching here to-day
confirmed the reports that General Luis Herrera has joined the
Villistas at Chihuahira and left little room for doubt that Mexican
affairs have reached a point fraught with far-reaching and per
haps serious consequences to this country. Not only was it accept
cd here as definite that Herrera had declared against both Car
ranza and the United States, but it was asserted with equal confi
dence that Torreon was also in the hands of Villa forces and that
all northern Mexico is seething with open rebellion against the de
facto government.
So grave was the situation regarded that the military authori
ties here planned to-day drastic steps to relieve all the Mexicans
in El Paso of any arms they might have concealed in their homes
and enforce what would be virtually a military law in Little Chi
huahua, as the heart of El Paso's Mexican settlement is known.
All night long, El Paso waited for the warning whistles which
would tell that the expected outbreak had occurred. Three hun
dred soldiers with machine gun detachments waited under arms
for any emergency, and police reserves, equipped with rifles, were
also held in readiness. Again and again Vumors ran" through the
town that shooting had been heard in Juarez, but each time they
proved baseless, and a feeling of relief pervaded the community
when jnorning came. Vigilance was not relaxed to-day.
.
RAPID ACTION ORDERS
SENT ALONG BORDER
TO U. S. TROOPS
General Funston is Prepared for Immedi
ate Action Should New Rebellions
in Mexico Make it Necessary
Disquieting Report
Received.
San Antonio, Tex.. March 23. Orders
going from Fort Sam Houston to-day
provide for rapid action at points along
the border should new rebellions in MeXf
ico make it necessary. General Funston
is not altogether convinced of the truth
of the report that General Luis Herrera,
termined is over the Central Vermont
railway to White River .Function and
from there to Philadelphia, IV, over
what is known as the Federal F.xpress
route, wlncli is through Willitnantic,
Conn., over the Poughkeepsie bridge and
through .New Jdrsey to Philadelphia.
Fort Myer is located just outside of
Washington, D. C, and the trip from
Philadelphia to Washington will he over
the Pennsylvania lines. The regiment
has been in readiness for instant move
ment for some time.
Petrograd Announces Important
cesses Against Germans on
Eastern Front.
London, March 23. The Russian of
fensive against the Germans in north
west Russia has increased in intensity
and fighting is in progress day and night.
Tho latest official statemet from Rus
sian general headquarters says that des
perate infantry righting is proceeding
north of the town ot Posts vy, where the
German launched violent countcr-at
tacks in an attempt to dislodge the Rus
siuna from trenches which they had pre
viously captured. , Respecting this op
eration the Uerlin communication says
that at this point the Russians delivered
their heaviest attack and their losses
reached "extraordinarily high figures,
even tor the number of Russians in ac
tion."
The Russians etiptured three lines of
the German trenches on the southwest
ern shore of Luke Naroez, where, it is
officially declared, the fighting is devel
oping in favor of the Russian forces.
Here the Russians, despite "asphyxiating
g,ses and a murderous tire" forced three
lutes of wire entanglements and made
their gam in a scries of furious hand-to
hand encounters.
The Russian war office also officially
announces the capture of Ispahan in Per
sia after an engagement. An unofficial
report received hy way of Rome and
London snvs that the Austrians have
abandoned Czernowitz, capital of Buko-wina.
the Kentish Knock. A London dispatch
of March $ said that according to British
naval circles German submarines had j
been laying anchored between the mouth
of the Thames and the Galloper light-
ship. Many disasters occurred in the
last few months in this neighborhood.
GERMANS GAIN A POSITION.
AUGUSTA,. GA.,
DEVASTATED
Infantry Attacks Gave Them Hold en Flame3 Swept Away Area of
tnuii h.u ot H.ucourt. Buildings Covering VA
London, March 23. Infantry attacks ri .. nr-i
northwest of Verdun preceded by a vig- oquare MUSS
orous bombardment, have enabled the
Germans to gain a foothold on the small
hill of Haueourt, just outside tho village
of Malancoiirt and between that town
and the eastern edge of the Malancoiirt
wood.
The entire sector of about two and a
half miles from the Avocourt wood to
Malancoiirt has been subjected to a vio
lent artillery bombardment and several
German infantry attacks, but except in Seven Hundred HoUSeS Were
the immediate vicinity of Malancoiirt the , , .n
Germans were held by the French barrier UUmeCl and O,W0 e0
ftro and were unable to advance. Ja A o UnrnaU.,, -
LOWEST ESTIMATE
OF LOSS $5,000,000
FRENCH LINE THREATENED
BRITISH AIR SERVICE INEFFICIENT
SUSPECT UNDER OPIATES.
Is Held in Connection with a Millionaire's
Death,
New York, March 23. Detectives sent
to-day to arrest Arthur Waite, wanted
in connection with the death of his fa
' ther-in-law. John K. Peck, n millionaire
the deposed military leader of Cluliuahua, druggist of Grand Rapids, Mich., found
had entered tho field with Villa against ' him in a condition of stupor as the result
the United States, but a repetition of I .f an "P'ate, self-administered. Physi
, , , , ciana at noon were working to save his
the report and absence of acceptable evi- ( life Ve(k died ,,ere m.entIy aml hig
dence to the contrary caused, (..cneral death fins been under inveftigation.
Funston and stall to regard it as proba
bly true.
Reports that General Gavira's garrison
at Juarez was about to revolt and that
the troops at Torreon were manifesting
disaffection was regarded with apprehen
sion.
STREETCARS STOPPED.
Night Trips Between El Paso and Juarez
Were Discontinued.
El Paso, March 23. The street ears
lietween El Paso and Juarez were ordered
stopped last night at 9:30. Xo explana
tion was given by the company for the
order.
It was learned later that the street
ears had been stopped on the recommen
dation of the military authorities. The
manager of the street car company said
Waite's arrest was decided upon bv
the district attorney following receipt of
the information from Grand Rapids in
dicating that Peck had been poisoned. It
was given out by the district attorney's
office that a maid in the Waite home had
said she saw Waite on two occasions
pour something from a bottle into Peck's
soup. Peck complained of the taste of
the soup and Waite is alleged to have
blamed it on the cook. On another occa
sion the maid is declared to have said
she saw Waite put something in Peck's
tea. Reports from Michigan waid that
an autopsy on Peck's body, taken there
for burial, showed traces of poison.
FOUR FEET OF SNOW.
Chester Rises to Remark That It Is Still
Winter.
Chester. March 23. One year ago this
time, and nearly one week before, the
I nai ine crews were geninjf nervous ana n(, le(lr, , bare ttlrou ho,lt
that he did not care to take any risks, tlig U(m am, wgs runnin- W(,n
although he knew of no actual trouble, i Now t.re u fuy folir fwt of 8now on
Bng.-Gcn. George Bell, jr., la.-t night t. hxe wU, no rap wes,ther. Most of
extended the censorship to news !-' tlie ownons of orchards are roa.lv to tap
pat. lies sent over commercial wires out of tllpir lr,.(lJ ,lt !,.,, weather comes to
t.l J'aso, wnicn lie sam were oi an in- settle the snow the work of breaking
cen.liary character." rnk will be hard in most places. On
Gen. Bell aid he did not intend to account of the continued odd weather a
have information of "preparations" he : pood siurar season is predicted by the
was making given out in advance of their toblest farmers.
execution. The general added he was J The late fall of 17 inches of snow wa
investigating reports that the Carrana a "set back" to the lumbermen who were
pan ision at Juarez, across the riv.-r from ru-hing their contract work for wood
El Paso, had deserted to the ilia cause, 'and logs and were obliged to leave their
tea mi standing idle for several davs.
According to Recent Comer to the British
Parliament. .
London, March 23. Noel Pemherton
Billings, who was recently elected to Par
liament, after a campaign in which he
demanded sweeping changes in Great
Britain's defense methods, stirred the
House of Commons yesterday afternoon
with an arraignment ot the Bntih a
service which he charged with ineflieietl
cy.
He asserted that a blundering policy in
construetion had been responsible for th
deaths of many officers who had been
"murdered'' rather than killed, and he
declared that the Earl of Derby was not
qualified for appointment as chairman
of the committee on control of air de
fense because he was not well-informe
on the subject.
Mr. Pemlierton-Billings said that with
in the next few years the big nations
would possess from 100,000 to 200,000
aeroplanes with whinh the sky would
be blackened, while even the smaller na
tions which were unable to afford battle
ships would be able to maintain fleets
of air craft with cost only from 100
pounds to 200 pounds apiece.
Harold J. lennant, parliamentary nu
der secretary for war, replied that M
1 cmberton-Billings charges were grotes
quely absurd and untrue, and he argued
that the commander-in-chief at the front
was thoroughly satisfied with the air
service, while the word murder in con
nection with the deaths of airmen never
should have been used. Mr. Pcmberton-
Ifillings again sprang to his feet, saying
I repeat the statement, and if Mr,
Tennant wishes to challenge it 1 will
produce such evidence as will shock the
House.
Mr. Tennant retored that the member
had done little to justify his charge of
"murder.
By Advance of German Troops Near Augusta, Ga., March 23. Fire which
Avocourt. I raged more than nine hours last night
Berlin, via wireless, March 23. Lokal and early this morning was extinguished
Anzeiger says that in View of the prog- to-dnv after havimr pansi-d a loss esti
I . I ...J ,, .. 1.., . I J n
vcx-ourt. tha trench I ne Ix-tween I ' ' " ' '
Bethincourt and Mulancourt is now men- area 60Ut one anrt oe-ourtti square
aced. It asserts that French positions miles was burned overj seven hundred
there are threatened by German victory houes were destroyed and 3,000 people
in the wooded region northeast of Avo- . .
court. - (
Among the business structures burned
waa the twelve-story building of the
Augusta Chronicle and Augusta Herald.
Bank buildings, telegraph offices, Masonio
temple and many other buildings were
Berlin, via London, March 23. ThekPn,. T. ,: ,, .;,rtl, ,lf
iviisnmim, in spite oi ineir ureal onenwive
tl, .ufni. fmnt huv. m,.do nr. ,!. conon sioreu in , warciiouses was lost,
vance, wys the official statement given
out to-day by German army headquarters.
NO ADVANCE BY RUSSIANS
According, to the German Official State
ment.
FRENCH BARK SUNK.
$1,500,000 FIRE CAUSED
BY BURNING YARN
Twenty-Three Members of the Crew Nashville Youth Tossed the Insignificant
LARGE REALTY TRANSFER.
Picked Up.
London, March 23. Lloyd's reports the
French bark Bougainville has Men sunk.
Twenty-three members of the crew were
picked up.
CHINA RESUMES
REPUBLIC RULE
Finds That People are Not at All Unani
mous for a Monarchist Form of
Government Yuan Shi Kai
Resumes Presidency.
Pekuig, March 23. A state depart
ment mandate Issued last night an-L mill .nd banil from
uuum t'B liiu a uniiij.'iiKiKiii vi win uiuir
archy and resumption of the republic.
I he mandate says the revolution
shows that the demand for a monarchial
Firebrand Into Dry Grass and 35
Residence Blocks Were De-
troyed in a Few
Hours.
Nashville, Tenn., March 23. A ball of
yarn, lighted and thrown by a boy into
dry grass in a vacant lot, started a con
flagration in Nashville at noon yesterday,
which was not under control until late
yesterday afternoon, after 33 residence
blocks had been swept by the fire. I he
loss is estimated at $1,500,000.
A wind driving at fifty miles an pour
fanned the burning grass into a tor
rent of flames, which quickly caught
to building until at least sis hundred
residences had been destroyed, the East
Nashville sub-postoflice burned down, the
big Warner public school and several
30 SURVIVORS
OF NORWEGIAN
SHIP BROUGHT
FROM VERMONT TO WASHINGTON.
Troops Sent from Fort Ethan Allen
Nearer Scene of Trouble.
Burlington. March 23. After the or
ders for th first iiadron of the second
cavalry at Fort K.t.un Allen to proceed
t. F'rt Myer, Va to relieve the troops
.f the fifth cavalry ordrred from that
o.t to the brdi-r liad heen countcr-iiundt-d.
orders en rec i-d late ye-
tcr.Ur afternoon lor the Min.lmn to
j r. ! a originally commitnde.1.
Hay is holding out well and there i
plenty of water for tli farm stock,
which one year ajr had to 1 driven
quite long distance for drink.
The Lindfield Bark, Bound from Port
land, Oregon, for United King
dom Ports Waa Sunk Off
British Isles.
London, March 23. The Norwegian
bark Lindfield has been sunk. Thirty
of her crew were rescued and are aboard
the Norwegian bark Silas approaching
yueenstown. J lie Lindfield was last re
ported on November 7 when it left Port
land, Oregon, for United Kingdom ports,
LIGHTSHIP TORPEDOED.
STRUCK HEAD ON STEP.
P. K. Carney of Cabot Fell on Street in
Montpelier.
I. K. Garncy of t al t. a juror at the
prew-nt ti-rm of Washington eminty
court- as wa!kinf n the street in
The M'ntp l.er this forrmn hen he whirled
-jMa lrn is fwipafol of tr'j A. R. , ahoul lie and t.-ll fa.-e .rcni--t
r l P. imintwrin a'-ut iw5 an I Sffnin-t a sl- ne step in fn nt f the tTe
iti-l-1 I' c.n-mri I -f i a rtm .eorj" A. ' ef hi. hard II.
Iir:rc1','i 'f A )r. p. mil .-ve itKeri call. -J and
Was Located at the Mouth of Thames
River.
London, March 23. The Galloper light
ship at the mouth of the Thames baa
been torpedoed and sunk, according to a
Lloyds report.
The Dutch steamer Amtellnd. from
Buenos Aire for Amsterdam, reports
according to a Reutor dispatch from
Ymuidrn, that he set b-r course for the
form of government is not unanimous .-.,. ,i.rf tn
il.. .1 t - ' L-1.: r.'i ' . . I "
i ui LOHk Liirri:iorv j nail oiii rvni icjrcLS
tho emj)erorship and resumes the presidency.
the imperial documents, the mandate
adds, will be returned by Yuan tShi Kai
to the state council which will recon
vene as the Senate, preparatory to the
resumption of the republic
Heu .Shih Chang, who left the cabinet
because of the monarchial movement,
signed the mandate, as secretary of
state, having re-entered the cabinet.
It is estimated that at least 3,000 per
sons are homeless as a result of the
conflagration.
National guardsmen called out by Gov
ernor Rye, went on duty in the fire zone
late yesterday afternoon and will re
main there for several davs to aid in
relief work and prevent looting.
MAN AND WIFE TO PRISON.
CENTENARIAN DEAD.
Sentenced for Breaking and Entering a
House.
i ' 1 1 1 t f . on : I'll
Mrs. Matilda Doane of Bakersfield Was , "'"TV." " Z Z i' , . ,
uii Him inn itiic, in i iu jnuuuu, jiu
100 on March 8. have been confined in the Addison coun-
Bakersfield, March 23. Mrs. Matilda ty jail for tho past few weeks in de
(Johnaon) Donne, UK) years old the 8th fault of $2,000 bail, charged with break;
inst., died last eveninir at 10 o'clock at ing and entering the home of Burt Coun-
the home of her oidy surviving son, John ter and the larceny of some wearing ap-
Doane, of cancer and old aae. The fu- parel, were brought yesterday betore Mde
neral services will be held at her home Judge Henry K. Day of Ripton and Wil
to-morrow afternMin at 1:30 o'clock. her E. Hanks of Bristol and sentenced,
Mrs. Doane was born in Rockingham. Elrado was given not. more than three
She was the fifth child of Joshua and nor less than two and a half years and
Hannah (Estabrook) Johnson, and came Lh is wife not more than two nor less than
ofa long lived family. Her father lived one and a half years in the state's pris
to the age of H4 vears and her mother .. Ion.
Her father's family consisted of six chil
dren, John, wno uvea to lie rm years oia; SPECIAL GRAND TTJRY.
Mrs. Calista E. Bolster Sells Property on
No. Main Street,
One of the larger north end business
blocks figures in an important real es
tate transaction of the week. The Bol
ster building at 337 North Main street,
it is announced, lias been purchased by
two men who are prominently identified
with a welt known Barro real Vstatc
a pe ne y. Mrs. Lalista t.. Holster sells
tlie property, ho it is reported in authen
tin quarters, at a price considerably be
low the figure which the building cost
originally. To erect the three-story brick
block $3.1,000 was expended in a day
when building material was not as high
as it is at tho present time. For several
years the two stores fronting the main
thoroughfare have been in disuse.
In the transaction the purchasers ac
quire the steel veneered, two-story an
nex skirting Bolster place. The build
ing in the rear of the block will continue
in use as a tenement realty, while the
purchasers, who buy the block as a rent
ing proiierty, plan to lower the floors
of tho stores to the level of the street.
Negotiations for the purchase of the
property were started in February, but
the transaction was finally consummated
only a day or two ago. Just who is to
occupy the stores is still problematical,
the purchasers state, although it Is not
vacant for long.
Although realty movements are not
uncommonly brisk tins spring, tho tol
ster block sale being the most important
to be. registered in several weeks, thu
building prospects in Barre are considered
rather promising. 1 here is said to be a
very substantial foundation for the ru
mor that a prominent automobile concern
in thin city has acquired an option on
vacant lot at the corner of Washing-
on and Perry streets. The erection of a
modern garage is contemplated and if the
deal goes through work on . the structure
will be started as soon as conditions are
favorable for heavy building work. Tho
corner lot in tho district described has
long been known as a favorable residen-
lal site and the rumor that it is to be
used for a garage is somewhat of a surprise.
Perhaps a prophet would not lie shy
ing very wide of the mark if he were to
predict that an up-to-date garage will
be erected on South Main street the com
ing summer. H. F. Cutler has a desira
ble garage site noar the Averill mills and
it is stated that he has been considering
building plana for some time.
had it last summer that a garage was
to be reared on the site of a small dtfell
ing fronting the street. The name of yet
another prominent Barre auto concern
was connected with' projected building
operations on Elm street in the late sum
mer of 1915, but negotiations for the ac
quisition of a site not far from the Wash
ington street corner were held tip,
hether overture are to be resumed
this spring is a matter for conjecture,
WARD, KELLY.
AND ROBINS
Appointed License Commis
sioners for City of
Barre
ANNOUNCEMENT MADE
BY JUDGES TO-DAY
E. A. Francis ivi 'Wilder,
and FV Nichols
' f yiddlesex
Assistant Judges G. II. Dale and C. IT,
Dnna of Washington county announced
shortly before noon to-day the appoint
ment of William H. Ward, John B. Kelly
and John Robins to be license commis
sioners for the city of Barre, in Record
ance with the prerogative devolving upon
them by reason of Barrc's vote on March
7 in favor of the licensed saloon for ono
year, beginning May 1, next.. At tha
same time it was announced that K. A.
Francis, Levi Wilder and If. B. Nicliol
had been appointed commissioners for
Middlesex, the only other town in Wash
ington county to Vote "yes" at the recent
election.
All three of the Barre commissioners)
are well-known men, particularly Messrs.
Ward and Robins who have been mayors
of the municipality. Chairman Ward is
an ice dealer, owning the business of tho
firm of J. M. Ward & Son, and his resi.
deuce is at 2 Kirk street. Mr. Robins is
at the head of the well-known granite
manufacturing firm of Robins Bros, in
the south end and his place of residence
w at 22 French street. Mr. Kelly has
Reports jnot lived so long in Barre as the others,
having come here from Burlington. Ha
is agent for a clothing concern and hi
residence is at 0 Liberty street. By a
strange coincidence, all three of the com
missioners reside in the first ward.
It is understood that the three men
were notified of their appointment last)
night.
All three of the appointees announced
this afternoon that they would serve.
William, 70; Mrs. Lueretia Albee. HO;
Mrs. Betsey Graves, 75, and Miss Milly n ,ht, c,,rnn uom,-rifle nn
jonnson. io, uu oi wiiom resiuea in nui
yoke, Mass., and Abraham Johnson, who
lied in this town at the age of OS vears.
Mr. and Mrs. Johnson and family re
moved to Springfield very soon ft r the
birth of their fifth child", Matilda.
Mr. Doane leaves three nieces, Mrs.
Gratia ,(Allee) Braw, of Onslow n la.,
and Mrs. Jane (Albee) Brown and Mrs.
Sophia Wright of Springfield, and sev
eral grand-nieces.
Her, marriage to Oramill Doane took
place when she was 22 years old and
they came to this town, where Mr.
Doane s father lived, making the trip bv
team. A 50-acre tract of land was riven
by Mr. and Mrs. Doane to his son, Ora
inill, and his daughter-in-law was given
cow. They cleared the land, which is
Mtuat'-d in the cast part of the town
near the Oakley Converse place, and
built thereon a log house and barn.
rour children were born to them, Ora
mill Wesley, Pho ls? Matilda, John Wil-
lam and I.dward Leonard.
At the outbreak of the rebellion. Mrs.
Donne's son, Oramill Wesley enlisted in
the second Vermont regiment. Smith's
ivision. and deid at Fredericksburg. Va.,
Dec. 2."i, 1 8"2. Mrs. Doune's husband en-
stcd later in Company K, seventh Ver
mont volunteers, and died at Baton
Rouce, La. He wa buried in the mili
tary cemetery with military honors, a
salute of 24 guns beinif fired over his
(rrave. 1 ne flaujjnier,. flincbe, died w hen
he waa 20 years old, and the son. Ed
ward, at the ape of 12 veara. Mrs. oane
made her home with the son, John, who
now resides in this village.
Feb. 24.
Woodstock, March 23. A special scs.
sion of the Windsor county grand jury
will be held here Monday to consider
the cases of Charles Leighton nnd sons.
Walter nd Newell Leighton, charged
with killing A. L. Gibson in Sharon on
February 24, last, during a dispute over
the ownership of logs.
The Windsor county court will con
venn in a special term on Monday and
if an indictment is returned against the
Leightons, it is expected tliat the men
will be tried at once.
FUNERAL AT MONTPELIER.
POLICE CLEARED CROWD.
For Bart ley Roach Who Died in Barre
Tuesday.
Funeral services for Bart ley Roach of
Barre, whose death occurred at his home,
373 North Main street, Tuesday morning,
after a prolonged illness, were held in
St. Augustine's church in Montpelier this
morning at 9 o clock, the curate. Rev.
Fr. McCarthy, officiating. A number of
Barre people, including several members
of the granitecutters' union, were in at
tendance. The hearers were: John Roo
nev, Hugh llalligan, James Cavansugh
and Thomas MctJotT of Barre. The re
mains were placed in the receiving vault
at St. Michaels cemetery, there to re
pose until late In the spring, when inter
ment i to be made.
BAILEY THROWS FAUST.
The Bout ia Brattleboro Goes to Thret
Rounds.
Brattleboro. March 23. 4rtorife W. lUi
NEARING AGREEMENT
IN CONCORD, N. II.
Granite Manufacturers and Cutters Said
to Be Making Progress Toward
New Bill to Replace BUI
Expiring May 1.
Conocrd. N. II., March 23. Conferences
between the workers and the manufac
turers in the granite industry of the
town, are taken to indicate that an
agreement will be reached on the new
schedule to be made May 1. There had
been some fear that a strike, or at least
a longer or shorter cessation ot work
would take place at that time. The re
quest for the conference was made by
the manufacturers, it is said, and a pro
posal is supposed to have been made to
the workers.
D. L. McLaren of Westerly, R. I., also
head of the New England Granite works
of this city, and other manufacturers
were present at the, conferences. A com
mittee from the Quarry Workers' union
met the manufacturers first and then
followed a conference with the represen
tatjves of tlie trranite t utters union.
The conferences were called quietly.
Advance "Dope" Not Far Wrong.
Interesting in connection with the ap
pointment of license commissioners for
Barre to-day is the communication which
was received by The Timea last Monday
morning. The communication read: "Mr.
Kditor: What's the good reason for not
printing the names of the .liquor com
missioners and give all applicants a fair
show. They have been elected more than
a, week. Ex-Ma vor Ward, John Trow,
I. B. Kelly." , The communication waa
not signed. During the past week many
delegations have put in pleas before tho
assistant judges, and petitons have been,
presented.
BURLINGTON COMMISSIONERS
TUFTS GRADUATES DINED.
Fifth Annual Banquet Held in Burling
ton Last Evening.
Burlington, March 23. I lie tilth an
nual meeting and banquet of the Tufts
College Club of Vermont was held last
evening at the roof garden of the Hotel
Vermont with an attendance of 2o mem
bers and with President Hermon C.
Rumpus of Tufts college as tlie guest of
honor. The following officer were elect
ed for the coming year: President, Fred
E. Rimbull of Burlington, C H2; vice-
president, Stanley Wilson of Chelsea, C
'01; secretary and treasurer, S. K. Dar
linpi jr., of ilardwick, C '00. The club
voted to afiiliate with the general alum
ni association of Tufts college. The Ver
mont club has had a substantial growth
during the past year and now had a
membership of over 100.
ITCsident Fred t. Kimball presided at
the iKt-prandial exercises and lntro-
duced President Rumpus, who spoke on
"ktlicienev in College Administration.
C. H. Darling of Burlington spoke in be
half of the board of trustees, of which
he is a member, and emphasized particu
larly the rapid gTowth ot 1 ufts. which
now ranks third in the list of New Kng-
land colleges with an enrollment of 1.,"sh1
students.
And Also for Colchester and Shelburna
Named.
Burlington, March 23. License com
missioners were appointed to-day, as fol
lows: Colchester, George T." Graves,
diaries nSShipman and H. O. Huthorn;
Burlington. C. A. Barber, J. M. Clarka
and J. H. Middlebrook; Shelburne,
George Palmer, Horace F. Saxton and
T. B. Webster.
CANNOT ATTACH
SHIPMENT ON CAR
Verdict Returned in Washington County
Court To-day for Plaintiff in Gran
ite Case to Recover One Cent
and Costs.
Judge E. M.. Butler in Washington
county court directed the jury to give
a verdict in favor of the plaintiff to re
cover one cent and costs this forenoon
in the case of C. W. Murray vs George
L. Morris, replevin. TIkj case was com
pleted late yesterday afternoon and the
arguments completed to-day. Judge But
ler based his ruling on a di-cmon handed
down by Justice Powers of the supreme
court. The decision is one of interest
to granite retailers and wholesalers, in
asmuch as it does not allow an attach
ment to be made on work completed and
placed on a car for shipment, even if
the car is not fully loaded, the court
holdinsr by its ruling that the title passes
to the con-ignee alter it is loaded if the
contract is so drawn.
The first case on the trial calendar,
which was passed the opening day of
court, was taken up immediately after
the disposal of the replevin case, Annie
W. Stanyan vs. the Security Life Insur
ance Co., an action of assumpsit. H. C.
gain of 3oo .luring the past ; ShurtlefT appears for the plaintiff and
vear. IJt. Orlando K. tlollister of Harre.
principal of Goddard seminary. sKke on
he relations between the seminary and
he college, and Harvey Hersey of Barre,
.ti, one ot tne oldest living pra.niaica oi
he college, speaking in behalf of the
alumni, win bed IVesident Rumpus con-
intied and unbounded success.
Those attending were Harvey Iferey.
7. of Burre. Harvey K. Averi
!arre. Prof. !.eon K. Dix. tfi. of
E. II. Deavitt for the respondent.
The following jury was drawn in the
case: John Oborn, A. E. White. John
P. Mack. Grant Lane. W. R. Cooler, M.
S. Herbert. Vern.S. Mayton. Addison K.
Foss. J. W. Averill. Harry C. Patterson,
W. H. Rcrdon and Fred Ihirling. This is
an action to recover tfl.WKl by tne beneh-
amsar.
ed on
March 14. lllrt. The defendant mm-
ii '"' ' iary of the estate of Lvman Ra
late of Wentworth. N. H., who di.
.Norwk'h : . , ,,,,1 n. ,if i
universiij, it. ri"i".. v. (. !:;!. , v V
lilir incion. ir. wn .-. .i.nni n - ,-
Bnrlincton. Harold L. Bailer, 'o. of
Bradford. C. H. Darling. M, of Burling-;
ton. S. K. Iarling. jr., '. of lUr lwi. k,
F. Hnrdins t liesmc.re. J.i. of J.ine.vill.
After Non-Union Workers Had Been
jley of Brattleboro made his first wre't-jj. j s Katwoo.l. 1M.
.c i..iK. ... jW man was i.nir appearance in nia no me ion since nf Ilnrlmi-inn
.all.per Iighthip, but found on the . sent to a hospital and ten pri-oners were j competing in the New York tournament varinj?. of S-mtli Kovalton
hi oniy nia-v iwic wr eunvr "i i--n am-i ikt ir-cur naa cnarge.1 ana oeieaiea nnrry raui. claiming ini jin,
the sea. a crowd of 2 striking workmen cf the championship of lrmany. in two ttV.t'.u.l,
National Biscuit company here lat nicht. lout of three. Bailey has improved in i,.r Ir Samuel W. Hamilton. Ml .if "H aliened to have be.-ti inched
Tie Gr!np.r lirhtship wis one of four i The reserves were called after the strik- .speed and rience and surprised his ; - rrt. lr. Frank M. I.vndo. "!. oH"'!! " Wentw.wtb youth lt fall in
narkinz the limit of the la- er bad heirun a bombardment with ! friends. ' V.rr.-. Dr. B. A. Holme. of P.rsr. l..n. l-reMrc into the ii. sn.re id rranlc
he first fall ia 31 minutes and I. ns- O. Mit. he!. of St. Allr. ' 1 acini n Irre Mr et. l.aul.l appeared
1 !ho h4 taken t..e;r plc- a. they were!5 secon.!. The eecnnd rnt tn Fmit K. D. !id. "i'i. of P,ir,f..r.. lr. Orlnd. in ' court and U.un.l oer to
f: bating t!e f.lrr f-r tWir bi.siM. The in ii minute and 4 secrm.l and tr.e K. IM!i-cr. "'. of lUrre. P.. .?. l.-,tt. counts cmt an I it nnviiv t
ar- .serve tie tm tu Lrnsg t!ic to
An entry of settled and discontinu;-"!
was made this forenoon in tlie case (if
Paul Kingston et in. vs. Willis J. Hen
ry et us. r- I- Scott and O. 11. ( arpenter
f Brandon. A. K'.i"',',, ,or r'-'ntiff and E. H. IW-
IT D F lnp neien-iani.
It V ' cae ot tate vs. tsriK-e l.sul.f a
J of Hoche-ter. I 1. Tierce of "" 1 nl"V.
et. r. Pan K. I amphell of Motitpe-.' ' """" " " ' .
vessels markinz the limit of the fa - ier h,
nions (.lin n.ls. at the nfrni t bri.k and
;nd,-h. Ir. C. H. Biirritie at rait of lVner in the N'ott'i sea and !ho hi ti
the run tk-B tola few ni.le. from the K-n''h c-t
1 i
lute t-wy or nrlr In-My imimifig fr!Ifct.n li.ifl in a hjk. Mr. Gsrney Tntrlanl. The oter liuKt-hip are the ntnkers are demanding hither wage and , bnI to Piadey in eB B-iDiite and 3. "!'7. of uth U. lu-n. and J.d
Fort M, r. The rmite a preKmlr de-'i an elderly man. N.rth kodw.a, tie East todwia and that lit Kale shall be un.lurm. teccni. t'nt, 7f of Ludiow.
the 1. s'w r court.
