PE NS SEN TIP
PUBLISHED W kly OFFICIAL PAPER OF PICKENS COUNTY SUBSCRIPTION PRICE ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
Established 1871,-Volume 45 S. C, MARCH 23s 1916
BETFER
MILLINERY
BETFER LOOKING
MILLINERY
There is a decided ten
dency this season toward
,the better grades and hig'h
er class in Hats and other
Millinery Goods. We have
them, but as usual our
prices are wonderful both
in the intrinsic values and
the "Style" values.
Also Hats are better look
ing than forseveral seasons
past. The styles are be.
coning and the fact that
considerable more materi- -
als are used in trimming
themn makes it look like an
old-time season of "Hats
Beautiful."
FR EI
We have purchased a
handsome One Hundred
o1)0II a r Grafanola outfit
from John H. Williams, the
piano merchant, and will 1
ye ivt away. Step in the I
Xtore and ask for particu
lars and let us play vour
favorite piece on it for you.
AYERS
"Where Thousands Buy
Their Hats"
Greenville, S.P,
A
/1' a/ \
Mr. J. D. Aiken Dead.
A telephone message from Central
brings the sad news of the death of J.
D. Aiken, a prominent citizen of that
place, which occurred about. 4 o'clock
Tuesday morning, after a short illness.
His death was unexpected and a great
shock to his many friends.
Mr. Aiken was a merchant and well
known all over the county. In the last
election he was a candidate for treas
urer of Pickens county. He was a
member of the Baptist church. He
was a native of Transylvania county,
N. C., but moved to Pickens county 20
or 80 years ago.
Mr. Aiken leaves a wife and seven
children, as follows: Boone Aiken, of
Florence, Allie Belle, Jeannette, Lore
na, Nattilee, John and Wilma. He was
a brother of W. W. Aiken of Sunset.
Many friends sympatize with the be
reazed family.
At this writing funeral arrangements
have not been made.
Along Pickens Route 3
Misses Lucia and Mayora Mauldin
visited Misses Vera and Ruby Pressley
Saturday night.
Messrs. Bob Mauldin and George
Durham attended services at Mountain
View Sunday where Rev. Mr, Aber
crombie filled his regular appointment.
Mr. Jim Garrett has recently purchas
.ed an automobile.
Rev. Mr. Willis, of Six Mile, has ac
cepted the pastorate of Six Mile Bap
tist church.
Mr. Jim Bell has traded for a horse.
Look out girls for a ride.
Miss Emma Wood, a missionary from
India gave an interesting lecture at
.Mount Olive last Sunday morning.
Rev. J. E. Merck preached at Mar
tin's Grove Sunday night.
W. L. Pressley visited Mr. Spencer
,Gantt, of the Gap Hill section, Sunday.
NEwS GATHERER.
The public is cordially invited to a
box -qupper to be held at Wolf Creek
school house Friday night, March 31,
the proceeds to be used for benefit of
selol. A $25 watch will also be dis
posed of at the box supper.
Well-dressed women are getting anx
ious to discard winter hats. We have
Prepared hundreds of summer hats-a
very positive relief from -the winter
styles-and the prices are within rea
son. Our. Millinery opening will be held
March 24th and 25th. Don timiss these
dates. We will expect you. Folger,
Thornley & Co.
SPRIN
The First Ev
Styles i
Spriiig, according to
23rd and 24th. In ht
claborately prepared
new season. This sp
will undoubtedly pr1o
The new~ M4ilinery, (
Fab~rics I epresenit th<'
We extend a cordial invi
Modes
Scores of new creations a
of our own expert milliners.
the other extreme are found
form entirely. feature new cot
that this is the grandest colle<
community. Everything New
A Gathering of New Sui
That Comnpares Fav<
The Finest.
The new suits aire really b~
unqestonalythe smartesi
\ sented for several seasons.
or outline, has changed decid
is, in niany instances, quite
\ natural waistline. Trhe skir
but the shortage is made up
In that respect designers ha'
indeed; some conservative r
five yards around the hem.(
remains much to talk about ii
colorings of fabrics which we
esting readilng, but we preft
come and see. Your visit will
one. Prices range from $8.0(
I4.H obb
Al 910 n
lB ges and Wagons
Ialore! -
With almost 100 Chase City, Weber, Buckeye, Gregory. Columbus
and Sterling Wagons in atock we can sell you one-horse wagons for
$3 to $40; two-horse wagons $55 to $65.
The best buggies in the world for the money are the "HIGH 4
POINT" at $80 and the "'PARRY" at$50. Two carloads now in stock.
We will give two years to pay for any buggy or wagon we sell,
and guarantee the price of cotton to you. Remember, also, we guar
antee absolutely every buggy or wagon we sell.
A fine lot of nice, choicy young horses and mules on hand now,
weighing from 760 to 1300 pounds.' One span of fine PERCHERON M
brood mares, 6 years old, weighing 2500 pounds. See our standard
bred road horse. He is fast, 2.50.
We will sell you goods cheaper and give you longer terms than
any other firm we know of. Trade with us. We do not mind carry
ing your account.
We have just added a line of fine Sewing Machines and Organs
to our business.
W. M. BROWN, Walhalla, S. C.
SHorses Mules, Buggies, Wagons, Harness, Milch Cows, Beef Cattle,
Gasoline Engines, Oliver Chilled Plows, McCormick Mowing Ma- n
chines, Reapers and Binders, Disc Harrows, Sewing Machines,
Organs, Roofing, Lime, Cement, Dynamite, etc.
"Brown Has It-Or Brown Gets. It".
Next Sunday, March 26, will be ob- A dwellin house on McD. Farmer's
served as "Asbury Day" by Southern. >lace near labor church was destroyed
e y fire Monday. J. Matt Darnell and
Uiethodists in honor of Bishop Asbury, I family, who lived in the house, lost all
Avho was the first bishop in this country their household goods in the fire and the
mnd who died March 31, 1816. Pastor loss to them is very heavy. Another
Wiggins will deliver an appropriate ad- house will be rebuilt by Mr. Farmer' at
]ress in the Pickens Methodist church the same place at once
Sunday and the public is invited. Sun
day will also be observed as decoration~
day in honor of all deceased Methodist' Walter Chastain, son of Mr. and Mrs.
ministers. The late Rev. J. C. Yongue Nelson Chastain of the Griffin section,
is buried in the Pickens cemetery and died Saturday after a short illness from
all who wish are asked to assist in dec- double pneumonia. Burial tookl place
orat in his grave :Sunday. The Wal- at Griffin church Sunday after funeral
hala c iurch where he was once pastor, services conducted by Rev. Fulton Chil
will send a large and beautiful wreath dress. The bereaved family have the
to be placed on the grave. sympathy of numerous friends.
G OPENING DISI
nt of the Season Which Presents
n Millinery and Apparel for Spring
THURSDAY, MARCH 23rd, 1916,
the caleldar of Fashions, will be inatugurated Thursday
mnor of this occasion, we present Our Annual Spring Rev
event featuiring the handsomest and best developed sty
ring plans have been made on a mioro geners scale'the
W0 tho iuost~ interesting o(ccasion1 of the seaLsol.
J~oats, Suits and D1resses are bewvitchingly handsome. 'I
a highest aehievemnents of bo0th skilled designte's and we
tation to all to attend this style event and benefit by the style kno
From Several Style Periods Represented in Our Superb Assembla
R IN G M IL LN E
>pear in our beautiful Millinery Salon each morning as refreshing as spring blos:
Amnong them you will find hats rather high in shape that bury themselves unda
smart Spanish sailors with simple flower wreaths or novelty bands for dlecorati<
ors and garnitures that are certain to win the alpproval of every woman in Picke
tion of new Spring Millinery it has ever been our good fortune to present to t'
is Embraced in This Remarkable Gathering. PRICES ARE LOWEST.
ts for Spring Fashion's Chief Eftorts Are Portrayed Chi
rably With in These Elegant Frocks and Cos- Ca
tumes for the Spring of 1916. ENHANCE TI
~autiful to view I l em
grarmenits pr- You will be delighted when you come to ter ale soemar
ie silhouette, mnspec t the wonderful Dresses fashion artists althe rou soa
edly. The coat have developed, for spring. The bouffant ef- lacesly higron
short and has ai feet of Civil War times and "before the war''o laeadctigfone
is short, too, has never been so cleverly interpreted asi ing i selueg.h
for in fullness, the modes for 1916. The essential featLureta dmeideelse
'e been liberal, which is fullness of skirt, has been copied tharto hidnte?
10dels measure truly enough; but it has been modified In wayv far' varwit?
)f course, there that are extremely novel. Elegant, indeed, ierfr'ait
I the weaves an~d then, are the new frocks and costumes. The . ybe suited If
uld make inter. silks and fabrics of which those bouffant rantge of style
*r to have you dresses are made up also represents the shon so many
be an enjoyable ~reatest efforts of their producers. Prices to eaon..
to $25.00. at every purse---.00 to $10.00. Prices range f
s=Henderson Comn
Pickens, S. C..
News Letter From Oolenoy
On last Friday afternoon, Home De
monstrator, Miss Elizabeth Mauldin,
met with the Oolenoy Home Demonstra
tion club. Several items of business
were transacted and some instructions
were given to the Tomato club. A Pig
club was also organized with nine boys
and one girl as members.
On the evening of the 29th instant,
Miss Mauldin will entertain the Tomato
Club, a number of their friends and the
teachers of the graded school at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Suther
land. This promises to be a thoroughly
enjoyable affair.
Paul Edens left Sunday for Clearwa
ter, Kansas, where he joins his uncle,
Dr. J. Q. Edens, of that place. Besides
being a social favorite in the junior set,
he is a young man of excellent business
ability, having been associated with his
father in the merchandise business for
some time. The odds are that he will
make good in the Sunflower state.
Dr. and Mrs. L. F. Crenshaw, of Lo
cust, spent the week-end with relatives
here.
Misses Florence and Lillie Sutherland
spent Sunday at the home of Mr. A. C.
Sutherland.
Dr. and Mrs. C. W. Smith, of Liber
t , were recent visitors at the home of
the latter's parents, Dr. and Mrs. J.
M. Crenshaw.
Messrs. Jack Sutherland, Robert Ba
ker and Homer Edens, of Pickens, were
here Sunday.
W. E. Edens, Jr., was in Greenville
Saturday.
Mr. and Mrs. H. Y. Jones spent the
week-end with the former's parents at
Dacusville.
Prof. W. M. Hammond and sisters,
spent Saturday and Sunday with home
folks near Seneca.
Mr. and Mrs. H. H. Lynch spent Sun
day with the latter's mother, Mrs. A.
K. Edens, who has been quite ill.
Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Hendricks spent
Sunday with their daughter, Mrs. Earle
Keith, of Pickens.
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Hendricks
were recent guests of their sister, Mrs.
W. T. Batson, of Marietta.
T. A. Bowen, farm demonstration
agent, announces the following prices
on fertilizers: Standard 9-2-0 guano,
$20 a ton; prime 7 per cent cotton seed
meal, $33.50; 16 per cent acid, $16.15
cattle tankage. $34. Fertilizer deliver
ed at any station in Pickens county a1
these prices. Mr. Bowen states tha
in his opinion it is not good business foi
farmers to buy potash at the preseni
prices.
PLAY!1
the Correct r
Begins
and Fr-iday, A a rch
iew of Fasions; an
les Created for the
hIo( Silks anid I)ress -
Wiedge it Will give you
ge of
R Y
~omls. TIhey ar the product
3r streamers of ribbon. A t
m. Still others, different in -
ns. We can truth fully state
)e wome~n and( mfisseS of this
ting Blouses
HE SPRING SEASON 7 .
a depend on the occasion
.diftferen t dlesigns. Natur
I blouses composed of fine
i are favorites when it comes T e
dressy llouse. Next comee
-and when was the spring
>roud of these admir able af.-ab
Truly this is a remarkableFa r
and every woman will slure- arehi
she selects from this broad
;, We have never before arrat
lifferent kinds so eatrly in the .
for e
m5eto $2.4.I.fn i
Cloti
panR y nishi
sortn
usua
A CHALLENGE
WE claim that no tailor in the .*0
United States is now pro- "*
dueing better Clothes for thle*
.money than is now being mnade.
.for us by JULIAN RAY & CO.
of New York-Chicago. '
To Measure Only at
Popular Prices.
I also carry a first-class line of
Ladies' and Children's Read.y
'Trimmed Hats, and the prices
are right.
Cadlos Ganttx
- Liberty, S. C.
Near thle Maplecroft Mill
+.M-t/lMt!b
ewstW avs n
es inDes od
er inawndI u
. SpigOxod
wlnHas ndfr
Tclaitshatnorices n-th
VY Untdottew. o po
