" She Sueumeari ews
I
((O-O'O-O-O-O'O-O-9'O'O-O-O-'''
Largeat Circulation quV
Paper In Quay Ceuv
O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-Q-O-O-O
Advertisers Know Where to
Place Their Ada
o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-O'O'O
icn-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o
I
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
VOL. XIV.
TUCUMCARI, QUAY COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1016
NO. ifi
WH 1)0 SOME DEMOCRATS
WANT POLITICAL ELECTION? i
Tucumcnri, N. M., Shir. 21. Mr, :
Editor Tucumuari News: 1
Dear Sir:
I herewith hand you a comniunica- j
tion which I thought I had made ur-1
rangemcnta to have published in tho
Tucumcnri Sun Inst week, but wok I
disappointed. Will you please pub-
Iish the some this week in your paper 1
ami oblige. T. M. LOCKETT,
Editor Tucumcnri Sun,
Dear Sir:
As editor of the ollicinl Democratic
paper of Quay county and taking it
for granted that you are pretty well
posted on the affairs of the Demo
cratic party, both in town and in the
county, I would like to ask you as a
private citizen and life-long Demo
crat, n few question which I would
like for you to answer through the
columnfi of your paper. I think there
are quite a few, like myself, from the
ranks of the common Democracy, who
would appreciate very much what in
formation you or some of your read-
ors could give along these lines. in the bank and will still be u faith
First: Can you tell me why it be-, ful worker when the records of Quay
came necessary for tho first timo In , county aro placed in his charge if thu
the history of the town, for the Coun-' voters out there honor him with tho
ty Chairman of the Democratic Party ! trust."
to call a mass meeting of the Demo- 1 About seven years ago Mr. Lawson
crats in Tucumcari, to put out a City came to Tucumcari to accept a po
Tickel? Now, I am tnking it far i m tion with the First National Bank,
granted that this was imparitive or . and since that time has been in thu
they would not hnve done it. Just I employ of that institution. He will
what authority did the County Chair-1 resign that position in order to make
man hnve to call a mass meeting in ' the campaign.
the City of Tucumcari V Is the county j Sir. Lawson is well known in this
organization responsible in any way ! city and the farmers will remember
for this City Ticket ? ' him when they renew his acquaintance
Second: Is it not a fact that some j while out campaigning. Tucumcari
of the prominent Democrat of the has no better material for any office
town did nil they could to defeat the and if Sir. Lawson is the choice of
hend of the Democratic Ticket in the ' the Democratic , irty he will keep tho
last election for the Justice of the I clerk's olllce up to the high standard
Ponce, in this precinct, and have not I
some of those same Democrats now
announced as candidates for county
otllces, subject to the Democratic Pri-
mary .' i do not want it understood
that I nnt making any complaint in ;
the matter, but simply want to know
why it is that, when I was a candidate
for Justice of tho Pence on the Dem-1
otitic Ticket, party lines were disre-
garded by many prominent Demo
crats, who I understand are now in
sisting on the necessity of a Demo
cratic City Ti. ketV And I want to
know why a -traight ticket is neces-!
si.ry all of i. ,udden. Just whnt is; ( OUNTY CONVENTION
the necessity for bringing out n party ' At the County Sunday school Con
ticket in the city politics just ut this j vention held in Tucumcari last fall, it
time? Democrat would like to know.
Another question that might be of
interest to ninny Democrats is "Why
is it that certain Democrats who are
io insistent now upon having straight j
Democratic Tick have in the past
used their influence with thu present
city administration to have made such
n number of Republican appointments
to fill vacuncies? For instance: S.
II. McElroy, justice of thu pence, Har
ry II. McElroy, his son, as councilman,
II. Honem, to take the place of a
Democrat; A. II. Simpson as council
man; the appointment of Dr. homing
when there were at least ''too Demo
cratic applicants for city physician;
and the very recent appointment of
Jacob Wertheim, Republican, for coun
cilman; thi last appointment being
made only Mic night before the mass
meeting calb-d v the iirottcnt County
Chairman to minima" a city ticket?
. w, in regard o myself, I want to
.-ny this: I am not claiming perfec
tion on any line far be it from rue.
but I do invite a searching nuestign
tion of myself both us a citizen and as
a liernocrat. And lurtlier, ihorc arc
men in Quay county who have known , the committee appointed for that pur
ine per.Minnll. more than twenty sonic i pose. Harry H. SIcElroy, Eugene Ja
aud I will give you their name- if you I cub, D. .1. A bur, and Sirs. R. P. Don
want them, and will as. ,t ou in any! olioo. and the prize will be awarded
way I can. In i-toMm.. i wish to -a j by them. The best three essays will
this: "I have voted the Democratic j be published.
Ticket for more than forty .warn; 1 I -
have nothing to hide, but propose to ( RAILROAD NOTES
come out in tins open ami t hi.- i the Engineer Shitflet has been on the
reason I desire the informr.. 'on asked ; nick list for a few days,
for. T. SI. 1.0 KKT I' 1 Conductor Wm. Ramsey is holding u
. I nun m the short division out of Car-
MR. LAWSON RESIGNS , rizozo.
At a meeting of the Hoard of Di
rectors of the First National Hank,
held Monday afternoon, the resigna
tion of Thos. N. Lawson as assistant
cashier was accepted. Sir. Lawson
has been with the bank over seven
years and is held in the highest es
teem by the bank's directors and of
ficial staff, as well as that of the
general public.
J. V. McCurty, who has been as
sociated with the bank in various ca
pacities, was chosen to succeed Sir.
Lawson. He is well known and is
fully qualified to fill thu position with
honor. Mr. J. W. Humphrey. will
net as teller for the bank.
ENGAGES! ENT EXTRAORDINARY
April Hrd, one night only, under the
auspices of the Presbyterian church,
the superb solists, of the famous
Schubert Symphony
Club of Chicago
Leeta Lynn Corder, prima donna
soprano, Thomas Valentino Purcell,
violin virtuoso; Lavinia Zendt, con
tralto, great artists in a grand pro
gram; prices 7fic and Jlfic. Doors open
at 7:.'I0; concert at 8:15; carriages at
10:10. Tickets on sale at Drug stores
and by committees.
Tickets limited. Huy early
Smoke E. P. & S. W. Snfety First
Cigars, 5c. Uest in town.
TOM LAWSON ANNOUNCES
On editorial page thin week will !
found tho announcement of Thos. N.
LaWHon, of this city, as a candidate
for county clerk of Quay county, sub-
ject to the action of the Democratic
primary.
Mr. Lowsoii was liorn in Erath
county, Texas, in 188IJ. He wan reared
on a farm and educated in the public
school-, and college of hlH Home coun
ty. The following is taken from th
Stophonville Empiic, a paper publinh
ed where Mr. Lawson formerly lived,
and shows what the folks bnck there
think of him.
"We note from a Tucumcari paper
of l"st week that Tom Lawson has
announced for county clerk of Quay
county. We are hopeful that this old
Democratic boy will be successful at
the polls, for no worthier son of grand
old Erath has ever passed beyond her
borders to establish himself in u
new country. Tom Luwson was a
worker on his father's Erath county
farm, a worker in the college here,
n worker in the print shop, a worker
it now maintains under the manage-
merit of Sir. Kinegan. Competency,
eflleiency and accommodation will bo
Sir. Lawson's motto as that is the
Kind of a man he has always proven
himself to he.
Sir. Lawson is not a politician buL
he makes and holds your acquaintance
by his genial and unaffected manners,
Such men as Tom Lawson aro what
New Mexico needs in charge ol ofll
cial ntfnir.s and Quay county Demo
crats will make no mistake if they
should choose him as their nominee.
was voted to offer a prize to the Sun
day school children of Quay County,
for the best essay upon tho subject
Prohibition,' a prize of five dollars
in gold, the gift of Sliss Ulmer and
Sirs. Ulmer, of Hudson, to be given
to the one writing the best composi
tion. The rules governing the contest arc
us follows:
1. The subject of the essay is "Pro
hibition." 'J. Tho essay shall contnin not more
thun thiee hundred words, nor less
than two hundred words.
U. Those eligible to compete arc
all the children in Quay county, be
tween the ages of twelve and eighteen
years; all school children from the
sixth grade and higher grades, in
cluding the sixth.
I. Each essay must be inscribed
with the name, age, address and grade
of the writer.
.. The papers must be in by Muy
1, l'.'lH. Deliver or mail essay to
Mrs. R. p. Donohoo. Tucumcari. N.
.Mexico.
. The papers will be judged by
Conductoi Campbell is holding n
main line turn for a few trips,
Machinist Emil Anderson ia able to
be on tho street after a spell of sick
ness. Engineers Alexander and Howard
will report at El Paso for duty on
the El Paso and Carrizozo district
Conductor Herbert Caldwell Is hold
ing work train on the short division.
Engineer Jas. .Morton has 0 K'd for
duty after a ninety days vacation.
Fireman Gillespie is holding a main
line turn for a few trips.
MUIRHEAD WEATHER
Latu Wednesday afternoon Sluir-
head h Variety Store distrioi.tcd Home
large bills announcing the arrival of
many bargains. A few hours later it
looked like real .M airhead weather
was bound to arrive us every timo
lie puts on a special side it rains or
storms. Hie sale is on now and you
may expect rain any day. Read his
page ad. in this issue of the News.
G. S. Hyso and wife, J. T. Whlto
and C. L. Owens, motored over from
San Jon this morning in Mr. Owens'
now Studehaker. They roport tho
regular road fenced cast of Rnuvelto
causing them a long and hard trip
to get buck into the road on this
aide. This matter should bo looked
into by thu proper authorities.
CITIZENS HOLD ENTHUSIASTIC
MEETING TUESDAY NIGHT
GOOD GOVERNMENT TICKET SLOGAN
TUCUMCARI FIRST"
A meeting of the citizen t was held i
nt the Court House Tuesday night and
a good-sized crowd was in attendance.
Sir. Stark was chosen chairman anil i
Sam Dismukex secretary. After a
few preliminary mutters were attend-
ed to, Senator Alldicdge wim colled (
upon to address the audience upon tho t
subject of "Good Government." He !
made an excellent talk and during his
remarks he said that he together with
a number of other democrats had talk-'
ed the matter over In regnrd to put- Elroj and Joo Abeyta.
ting out a party ticket and it was The meeting wns closed with a num
thought best not to make the city j bor of speeches being made by 11. 11.
election a partisan affair. After it i SIcElroy, Jos. Israel, Roy Prentice,
wns decided to rcmnin out of politics Prof. W. 1). Shudwiek, W. L. Kirk
"iimc of those who opposed it woro ' pntrick and others. All voiced the
so strongly in favor of bringing out 'entiment of the platform and much
a Democratic ticket they failed a 1 enthusiasm was shown by the entire
mooting and nut out a so-called dem-! audience.
ocrntic ticket, but it niiglu us well i
have been called a 'Blu
c Goose Ticket' ;
as he did not. feel that
it was the will
of the majority of democrats to enter
into city politics.
He snid good government starts at
home and conditions will remain the
same unless things are changed. Wo
wont a better place in which to livo
and hope to find some method of how
to get it. The Good Government tick
et, if elected, cannot expect to do ev
erything necessary, but it will be a
stepping stone and muku it euftier
for the succeeding administration to
do more. Water is what we need and
I feel thnt the city mayor and court
cilmen can do much to help get it.
It has been proposed to dam Hluc
('reek and make a large lake for a
pleasure resort, which also might Im
used to irrigate gardens. The Pnjur
ita project is a good proposition for
Tucumcnri and the city should help
make it a success. A few men may
do something but a city with a livo
commercial club and city administra
tion con do much more. The moral
support of the mayor and councilmeit
will assist to boost everything.
Other cities and towns of the statu
arc .iccomplishing much through tho
administration. Stieets should be
properly graded and property owners
encouraged to beautify their homes
and lawns. Every man should enter
wholesoled into the work and success
is bound to be our reward. Tucumcari
s one of the best towns in the statu
but we must wake up if we deire to
:ecp her in the lend.
When big men of the United State
pass through our city we should pre
vail upon them to stop off and spend
a day with us. Show them what wo
have and what we need and perhaps
they will assist us as they have other
towns and villages with appropria
tions for public buildings. Tucum
cari is the only large town in thu
state not now receiving state and na
tional aid. Go after conventions and
meetings of associations. If you have
place in which you wish to livo
everybody else wants to .'hare it witb
you, but if you don't lilw your homo
town how can you expect others who
know nothing of its advantages, to
like If.'
After suying ho thought Sir. Israel
was the Sloses to lead the hqst on to
victory and make a successful mayor,
he took his seat timid hearty applause
Then nominations wore in order,
and Uncle Jerry Richardson nominated
Mr. Israel tor mayor in a short but
appropriate address. After a second
thu motion made to nominate Sir.
Israel was put to a vote and carried
unanimously.
The following cundidute: were then
chosen in tho various wards;
First Ward- W. L. Kirkpatriek.
Second Ward- -Thos. Ridley.
Third Ward 0. C. Goodloe.
Fourth Ward-W. F. Freeburg
Treasurer- -Herman Gerhardt.
Clerk -S. C. Campbell.
Tho following platform was rend
and adopted:
This ticket is pledged to tho follow
ing principled and policies:
Strict economy In City affairs.
One regular council meeting in each
month.
Appointive officers to be held strictly
accountable for performance of thoir
duties. Officers charged with enforce
raent of tho law to bo held accountable
for same.
Strict nuditing of city expenditures.
Requirement that all bills and charges
against tho city, except fixed charges,
bo sworn to, and approved by the
officor or agent of the city authorizing
same, boforo being allowed for pay
ment by the council.
Saloon regulation requiring saloons
to closo nt 10:00 p. m., and remain
closed until 5:00 a. m.
The saloon licenses now pnid, lie
continued in tho sumo amount.
That tho ordinances and laws rcgu
latino; saloons bo enforced.
That all games of chance, of every
character, ho prohibited in all places
In the city.
That gambling laws be strictly
enforced.
A committee of three from each
ward was appointed by the chairman
to act as the executive committee and
look aftei the registration of voters
in the several ward-. Tho.se chosen
in the different wards were:
First- Roy Prentice. Isaac
Patrick mid Nick Tafoyn.
Second 0. ('. Culberson,
Howen and .Mr. Romero,
Third --Herman Gerhurdt.
Kirk
K. W.
Henry
Rushy and J. W. Hullington.
Fourth J. SI. Putmnn. H. H
Mc
On motion by Senator Alldredge i
the Good Government Ticket slogan j
is to be rucumcari Iirst" was adopt -
ed and whenever you see that during And secretary will be made permanent,
the coming campaign you will know, Friday night there will be three
one thing tho good government will addresses made by members of the
stand foi. organization on the Mibject of "Why
; ; i 1 Am a Democrat." These meetings
"HA ITLE CRY OF PEACE" (r. expected to be lucational and
PROVES PICTURE PLA , inmiv thincs voum men linolil know
WITH A .MISSION
It was written and produced by
J. Stuart Hlnckton, president of the
Vitagraph Company, in an effort to
wake in every American a desire to
protect his love d ones. The story,
based on Hudson .Maxim's new book,
"Defenseless America," is educational
in its description of submarines, aero
planes, torpedo boats and other im
plement" of war. It compares U. S.
to other countries and shows with a
clearness the comparative size of our
army and navy. Hudson Slaxim ap
pears, ami by means of small models
illustrates on th screen the needs of
our country.
These pictures will be shown at the
New Theater April 8 and 9 for the
p-ic of .!fic and fiOe. This name
feature is being shown in tho larger
cities now at $1.00 but Sir. Hurley
has iccurcd them at the?o spoc'al
price for these two dayi only.
t t f
HORSE THIEF CAUGHT j
The sheriff's depattment bagged n j
horsethief this week and lodged him
in the jail to await the arrival of the
sheriff from Clarendon. Texiu. who!
noK mm unci; witn mm toaay.
Sum Arnold wns the nnme of the
man and he Mole the horse at Clar
endon and rod.- him through to this
county. After a series of questions
tho thief wilted and confessed to ev
erything he was accused of and also
gave other information which will be
useful in running down some other
stolen property.
CENTER STREET .METHODIST
CHURCH
Next Sunday will be observed thru
c - .Methodism as the Century of the
d. tth of Francis Asbury. bishop
evangelist.
There will be a honutitnl nnibem
at the eleven o'clock service.
Sunday school 0:!u a. m.
Preaching 11 o'clock.
Junior Slissionary Socict;. i i in.
Junior Choir l:t"i p. m.
Epwnrth League 'l!i p. in.
Pleaching 7:30 p. in.
Geo. H. McAnnllv. Phmoi.
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
There will be regular morning and
evening service at the Presbyterian
church conducted by the pastor at 11
u. in. and 7:80 p. m.
The subject in the morning will he
The Center of History."
Sunduy school 10 a. m. 1
C E. Society 0:30 p. m. I
(i. Funk has bought the Jarrell
building near the Glen rock Hotel and
is moving his machinery to that place.
He expects to be ready for business
again within a week. This will make
a good location for a grist mill and
we hope Sir. Funk will soon be nble
to put in a larger mill.
New Slexico State Record published
a special edition last week which was
a hummer and was filled with good
rending about our whole state. This
edition should be a good advertisement
for New Slexico.
W A NTE DSecond hand sacks, any
number; good price. Collins I!ny &
Grain Co.. Dodson's Stand. Phone 205
Sirs. Dan Sterns, who had been vis
iting Sirs. Vorenberg, has returned to
her home in Lns Vegas.
The Haptist Indies will serve oys
ters (any style) Saturday ot the Gal
legos building.
Albert Cnlisch was here from Mon
toya today on business.
T. H. Gaskill of Lockney, Texas,
wns hore this week prospecting.
SERUM'S CCIDENT
While fuming out from Tucumcari
last Sunday afternoon, Dr. and Sirs.
Herring fame near losing their lives
or being badly crippled. They were
coming up the Rngland dip Rock hill
and on making one of those sharp
turns, they met a ear coming down,
and to avoid a collision, the Doctor
brought his car to n Mop near the
embankment ami in nmo way lost
his control of the car. and to prevent
turning over, headed straight down
hill into u pine tree, v.hlch wns up
rooted, but luckily -topped tho ear.
The front uxle was bent and the radia
tor smashed. Happily neither the
Doctor nor Sirs. Honing were injured
other than a few bruises and being
badly cenrcd. Thu is only one of the
few accident that have occurred on
this hill, and .in effort should be mude
to have those sharp curves cut oir,
as one damage suit against the county
will more than pay for the change to
eliminate those dangerous curves. It
should be attended to before some one
i. killed or crippled for life.
-House Pioneer News
YOUNG DEMOCRATS ORGANIZE
The Young Democrats of Tucumcari
will meet again Friday night. At the
other meeting Lane Kirknntrick was
chosen chairman and James
secretary, and Fridav night it is ex
pected that the tompoturj. elmirmn
rmnn
will be discussed from time to time,
There are many young fellow who
could not tell why they were demo
crats, republicans, or socialists. The
best way to learn the::e things is to
meet with others and study certain
subjects, hearing other's interpreta
tion of public questions and exptan
nations of political problems.
There should be some good reason
why a democrat is a democrat. Come
out and hear why others are followers
of Jefferson and Woodrow Wilson.
Albuquerque, N. SI., .March 21.
Important stimulus it i- expected will
be given to both school and college
athletics throughout New Slexico dur
ing the coming year by the Fourth
Annual Inter-fcholustic Track and
Field Meet to be held on the Univer
sity campus Apiil 'JK-UO. Every high
school in the state has entered teams
or representatives this year and the
meeting is the first io be held under
the auspices of the recmtly organized
Intur-Schnlustic High school athletic
association, formed during the State
Teachers' Convention last November,
When Conch Rulph F. Hutchison of
the Stale I'niveisitj, pulled off the
first ot thcj.o Inter-Scholastic meet
ing four year.- ago. but four higli
schools were rupiconieu Roswell,
Albuquerque. Las Vegas ami Siintu Fe.
Albuquerque won the contest ami be
cause of the slim attendance it wns
feared that the in-titution would not
! Mirvivc. but Hutchison saw in the
1 track meet a principal source of fu
; tun: material for foot ball, base ball
and track meets for the University and
the other higher institutions of the
state in the years to come, and he re
mained with the game. The second
meeting brought representation from
several additional schools and last
year eight were represented. This
made the higli school authorities sit
I up and take notice and the result was
the organization of the New Slexico
I Inter-Scholastic School Athletic As
sociation which this year will have of
! lieial supervision of the meeting.
The meeting is being held earlier
than usual this year a.- a result of a
referendum of the various high schools
which were almost unanimous in their
decision that an early meeting would
interfere less with commencement ex
orcises and final examinations.
CAMPAIGN STORIES
it has been culled to my attention
that the report is being circulated
that if Sir. Joseph hrael is elected
our next mayor, I have been slated
for the position of Superintendent of
the water department, and to clear up
this misreproecn'ntion I wih to say
that I am fully satisfied with my pres.
ent business and would not accept
this position if it were tendered me,
and Sir. Israel nor anyone else has
never mentioned the proposition to
me. E. W. HOWEN.
CHRISTIAN CHURCH
There will be Sunday school at the
Christian church next Sunday morn
ing at 0:45, followed by communion
service nt 11:00 o'clock.
When rights are to lie conserved,
even more important than a stiff up
per lip is a stiff vertebral column.
Tom Schonk, H. E. Dalton and Fred
Hedgecoke of Endee, were Tucumcnri
visitors yesterday.
FOR SALE One buggy and one
surrey. J. T. MORTON,
i Phone 2BBW South 4th Street
Edwin Gaskill was down from Kara
Visa this week on business.
Smoke E. P. & S. W. Safety First
Cigars, 5c. Rest in town.
TUCUMCARI LOST TO CLOVIS
AND PORTA LES LAST WKIIK
Friday, March 17, tho Tucumoan
basket ball team left, in Mi. Adair's
car for a series of game- with Clov
and Portales. The trip to ClovU wa
made in three hours and fifty minute-,
and thoroughly enjoyed by all. AfUtr
two hours rest the boys ate an oariy
dinner and then took a lontr rout be
fore the gamu was called, which wa
at four in the afternoon. The Hum"
wn played in the down-town district
on a vacant lot. The goals wore good
but faced the wrong way. and whtft
playing in the afternoon, tho sun
bothered the boys and made goal
throwing very difficult. The ground
was level but dusty, and when tho
game started the boys and ball worw
almost lost in clouds of duct. TV
first part of the game was fant, iiud
the Tucumcari boys showed Clovis
tliut they knew how to play ball, but
before the first half was ended, Fhhk
nacht and two other boys, being blind
ed by the sun and dust, ran into men
other. Claude wu. the only on hurt.
He received a severe brui' on his
left leg, which would have 'Mined
him to go out of the game, if they
had hnd a substitute; but since tho
substitute did not arrive, as it had
been planned and as he had promised.
Claude had to stay in tho game. At
the end of the first half the score ww
ten to eighteen, in favor of Tucum
cari; but when play started in the
second Claude could hardly walk, and
the remainder of the game was nhu-
ed with four men playing for Tucum
cari. The boys seemed to be 1U
couraged with their hard luck and
did not play like they did in the firal
hall. When the final whistle blnv.
the score was twenty-four to twentv
nine in favor of Clovis. The Clovn
boys ployed good ball all through tho
game.
After bath and sunner thu Clovlx
boys took the Tucumcari boys to the
show. The Clovis ladies' hand uUn
played some fine music in the slroat
and at ten o'clock the boys retired to
dream of victory at Portulo- the nexi
day.
Saturday they waited at GlnvU for
the Tucumcari girls, hoping that they
would bring another boy to take the
place of Haudo. At about eleven
o'clock the girls arrived, hut without
the extra boy. After a short stay in
wovik tne girls and boys went togoth-
er to Portoles, nrriving there about
twelve. Portales was ready to show
them a good time and soon they wore
well fed and waiting for thu'ramr.
which was at eight o'clock in the
evening.
The girls played first and as thov
always do, played a good game, but
the I'orUiles girls are fine players and
hard to beat. The Tucumcari girl
lost. When the girls were through
the boys were ready to play with tho
exception of Claude who was hardlv
able to walk. The game started out
rough und had no more than started
when Claude was knocked out again.
He was not able to play any more
during the game, but stood buck in the
corner and looked wise. Some of the
Portales boys wanted to give them
another boy from Clovis to even things
up nut the captain of their team ob
jected and then Tucumcari refused te
accept help, saying that they had
rather lose with four than play a
man that was not on their team, and
win. Claude then tool, his place in
the corner and the other four, Clyde
Jackson, Clinton Wharton. Robert Ja
cobs and Lucius Shaft" went into the
game with all their might. The court
was very small and this made it hard
for the boys to get away witli the bull
especially when there were five against
tour, the game was rough all tho
way through, but the Tucumcari bovs
played a game to bo proud of. Tho
final score wa- 'JO to in favor of
Portales.
After the game Portales gnvo the
boys und girls a sociul where thoy all
hud a fine time and enjoyed ice cream
and punch. Portales people are royal
entertainers, and good bankot-llull
players.
The boys and girls left Poitalae on
Sunday morning and took their timo
coming home. They arrived in Tu
cumcari nhout five in the afternoon.
The entire trip was enjoyed and was
made without the least bit of trouble.
The boys and girls both praise than
chaufeurs, Slossrs Adair and Smith
on their excellent car service.
ST. PATRICKS HALL
The St. Patrick's dance given In
die railroad boys last Friday night
at the Opera House was one of the
swellest events of the year. Tho hall
wok gorgeously decorated with lan
terns, colored crepe paper tastily ar
ranged throughout the entire build
ing. Tho floor was filled to its ut
most capacity and tho murlc furnish
ed by Sirs. Hurley and Slossrs. Hur
loy and Burnet was excellent.
Refreshments were served during
the evening ami dancing continued up
to tho wee smull hours of Saturday
morning.
Walter Heddow of Las Vegas is
in charge of the American Furniture
Store during tho absence of Frank
Liebendorfer, who Is spending a few
days in Las Vcgus on business.
Tho Hnptlst Indies will servo chick
en dinner Snturduy nt the Gallogos
building. Price 35c.
