' ' . ' i 1 , '. ' ' r "
DAILY EDITION
VOL. X, 'l V. GRANT PASS, JOSEPHINE COUNTf, OREOOJL; TIItltSDAV, MARCH 23, " WHOLE XTJtBEIt 1702,
No Other Town in the World the Size of Grants Pass Has a Pafcer With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service. V
STARVATION
DANGER If!
SERBIA
Balkan State flas Lost Ose
Million of Its Population
Since War Opened, and
Balance Suffer fcr Food
a i 1
UpeCeflf afiQ
Rome, Mar. 13
nearly 1,000.000 of her 6,000,000
population through death by the
word, by starvation, or in the recent
typhoid epidemic, the Prince Regent
Alexander Informed the United Press
today.
Tbe remaining 4,000,000 face star
vation. It la to save them from the
groafcwl calamity of history that
Prim- Alexander, Prime Mlnlater
Pachltch and the foreign mlnlater
have begun a tour of allied capitals.
They hope to secure military ac
tion In the Balkans that will auure
the restoration of their native coun
try, "Terrible a have been the loss
In our army, they have been vaatly
lea than our civil Iomm," said tht
prince regent. "During tb flrat two
Austrian Invasions or
lytb entire civilian popu atlon in the
debated district.
,i.rrll.tltftt
Austria. Then came the typhus epl-
dmlc. carrying off more then 100,-
Austrian Invasions ot 114 practical
O00. Hardly bad this been overcome
when the Germans mvaoea last ucio-
ber. Hundred, of thound a more fw wm Jn
itber fell before the Invader, or dli(rwa
M ... v..m for 8eattle from Reondo, went to ber
Prlnca Alexander realised ht .aid, MW
that only by keeping Intact jlerbU.
llgbtlng forcea could ha hope o r U(, ye,,frdw tn, C0Mtguard cat
deem hla country from 1U ter Bllohoml!n ntmrt6i th. Oakland
was abandoned during tb disastrous ,tMmep yeeter( monlag
retreat Into A'banla. fcRd h QeJlTer reporte ner poiltion
Tht tgd ; td the tug Oneontii The Oneoata
. tenaoly from tha bardah p i of tU re- WM g to vage ber.
treat through the mountains, left his
armed forcea In command of the son. I
Prince Alexander refused to leave the
Albanian coast until the last 8erblan
oldler bad been transported to Corfu,
or elsewhere. j
"With tbe Berbian army which re-,
s.AkiKr thr combined Germany
Austrian and Bplgarian force., vastly ; ;
uperlor In number and equipment! Washington,' Mar. 23. For the first
to their own. there retreated thous- Umf lnce Vlla al'arted1 bW border
ands upon thouaand. of m eb' rftMtng thr g0vertme1if today itri'
Sr thr pM of
"mmitted btb. Ausfungarlani orcea being a necessity on
7i SI lJva.lon.ot AugnBt, Sep- tbe International boundary. Ever
fluriuB ,h women available regular may be needed to
Z : T7JZi cop. with the Vllllsta Held force
iosMerrlSi. condition. Im.g.n- when they are reinforced by desert
u Ing Carranxlstas. . .-.
-Information reaching ua ' from If. the entire regular army border
wXV Arabia give' force marched Into Mexico, It Is be
SV.ombrJ picture of the gen- Heved Prerident Wilson would bav
Sll .Uuetlon. Enemy armies, w. to call militia or relnnteer. to guard
have learnedi have taken from the the line. -ilrtlaropulatlon
every mean of1,.. Major-General Funston reported as.
tleVenee There are whole dlstrlcta entirely unauthentlcated 4ho etory of
Ibere the entire population I. dylng.Qeneral Lul. Herrera and 2,000 men
"Those Serbian refugee, who lied milled the situation presented grave
across the Albanian Alps suffered un- poslblUUea. . The report that Colonel
tolotorture. during tbe wandertnge. Cano. commanding 900 men. tu par
greats Art would aurely have ley Ing with Villa, Increased official
died but for the help extended by concern. Another rumor waa that
mir noble Americans. Thank, to General Gavlra, at Juarex, waa re
ttale energetic assistance, thousand, belllous. and that Yaaul. on the west
S children, with their parents, wero'coastand Vllllsta. near Tamplco were
' aaved. It Is truly a pleasure to say (.ctlve. .
this publicly. In the terrible dls-
aster which has befallen the Serbian ,tmrate, Mr. and Mrs. Carl Grey
people, and amidst the general hor-;Blrucl, out thla n,0rnlng on the second
rora of war everywherett 1. no small ttp of tjief 850-mlle honeymoon
tonsolatlon to see the noble Amerl- Wftlki
tan people undertaking a work of f They wre marric,i in valla Walla
liumanlty with self-abnegntlon, Wednesday. As the result of a dare,
mlrnble as well as incontestlble." t)loy decided to walk to their ranch
KPKXIt HONEYMOON
OSf LONG, LONO lllftW.weiviner uuuijcu mom uu miv.uioi
;lap'and it took eight days to cover
"Baker. Mar, 23. Equipped with a the 125 miles from Walla Walla to
roll of blanket, and a marriage cer- Baker. , ;
FATE OF AVIATOR
UDELL OF I S.
raiin
Columbus, N. M., Mar. 23. Lieut
Qorrell, army aviator, la atlll lost
somewhere In the desolate country
around Ca Grande, it was official
ly stated today. 'Code wireless mes
sages received from the American ex
pedition said no traca of the missing
flyer could be found.
1 The rate or Aviator aorrou wae not
mentioned In dispatches from the
front, ire carried meager rations ana
only one canteen of water.
Field wireless operations were re
sumed aftor static difficulty during
Serbia baa lost;,h- niaht
Supply train are reported making
but alow progress, owing to tb deep
desert Mnd.
Army officials bare discredit stories
of General Luis Herrera going over
to Villa. He la believed heading the
Carranileta force attempting to en
circle the bandit chief.
OFF BAY CITY COAST
Day City, Oregon, Mar. 23. Aban
doned by ber crew, the three-masted
schooner Oakland, of Ban Francisco,
aground north of her. today and
htf
Moit of h mg0 of uroa4 ties bM
- (rt4 .WEy The oi.nd
nwthwd J00 ,,,
h.
rtt Tdir .he
crun mii mi
TQ MEXICAU
100 miles south of Salt Lake City.
Iniirt roads, floods and dlsatcreeable
SCHOONER
ASHORE
IIIV
BOH
DEI)
SLAV ARnlYHOUSE HAS
HIRING
GERWS
Russian Troops Are IIaki:g
Vigcrcus Assadts Up;h
vcn Hindenburg's Lbes cn
Battle Front ot 200 Miles
London, Mar. 23. Half a million
Russians under General Kuropatkln
are assailing Field Marshal von Hin
denburg'a Germans along a front ot
150 mile today.
Petrograd officially announced that
tbe 81av attacks dented the German
line In six places. It waa -reported
unofficially that the battle waa rag
ing most furiously 40 miles south of
Dvinsk.
Whether this smash is tbe begin
ning of a great Russian offensive
or merely a demonstration to relieve
German pressure against Verdun, baa
not yet been determined by military
critics.
Tbe London Post's Petrograd cor
respondent declared It was the com
mencement of a "great Russian
move." He pointed out that Kuro
patkln bad tremendoua force, at his
command.
Other Petrograd messages declared
khe -attack wa. an attempt to batter
In the dangerous German wedge at
Dvinsk, removing the threat of a Ger
man offensive there when the weather
become favorable.
Northwest of Verdun the Germans
are apparently striving their utmost
to capture the dominant height In the
Avocourt region. Emerging from the
woods, the Bavarians charged across
aa open plain wnicn waa raxea vj
tbe fire of many Frenoh guns. The
swoop waa partly successful. Bava
rian, gained a foothold on Harcourt
hill.
r a w-i u.,,.i Germah nary according t6 reports in
London, Mar. 23. Field Marshal, , M t. .
. AMis. -r. hMn-lneral clrcftlatlon In diplomatic and
voa HindenbUrg. German are being
heavily assailed by Russian troops
who have widened the froat of attack
until terriao fighting ta proceeding
today along a curving line 200 mile.
long southeast of Rig.
The Berlin eemmtfmqtte aid severe
Russian attacks were hurled 1ack
from tho. German line, during tbe
night near Jacobsudt. along toe
Mltau-Jacobstadt' railroad., north of
Wtdey, near Lake Narcoci and Wis
niew and south ot Dvtnsk.
General Knropatkin i bringing up
atlll heavier Roasted force to kroash
at tbe German railway poslUotsj but
Berlin claim, that all' charges td date
have been repulsed. '
The extension ot the eastern front
fighting naff made the battle there
rival that at Verdun where" there wa
a lull last' night, according to both
rrenon and Oermad statement.
'Berlin claimed capture' ot fortified
heights southwest of Haucoort, where
440 French' were captured. There
were unimportant change elsewhere.
Pari, admitted losing a portion ot
Havoourt bill.
WANTS ItEWAfttt 6FFEIIEI
POU BANDIT VILLA'S BODY
Washington, Mar. 23. A resolu
tion authorising President Wilson to
offer 150,000 for the delivery of
Francisco Villa's body to American
military authorities was Introduced
In the house today by Representative
Scott
Cummins llooelcr Here
G. B. Howard Is In the city today
in the Interests of the candidacy of
Senator Cummins for president of the
United States. Mr. Howard Is secre
tary of the Portland' Cummlns-for-
Presldcnt club, and states that he
finds a great deal of sentiment favor
able to his favorite In the state at
large.
tleasnre Proying for 140,
000 Regdar Trccps Gets
hacWylfsarncaVcte,
Oaly 2 Oppcsbg Increase
Washington. Mar. 23. The Hay
army bill passed the nouse oy an
overwhelming majority this after
noon.
Randall of California voted only
"present" when hi. name waa called.
Britten and- London rore tbe only
members casting negative votes.
Tbe bill provide, for 140,000 regu
lar. The house had previously adopted
Gardner's amendment to the bill pro
viding that efficient members of the
regular army may be discharged af
ter a year's service on agreeing to
remain in tbe reserves subject to call
if needed utttll their full terms ex
pired. Tbe vote was 204 to 198.
Hay opposed the amendment
Washington, Mar. 23. Congress
man Kahn's amendment to the Hay
army bill, providing tor 220,000 re
gular, Was defeated this afternoon
in, the bouse by a rote ot 213 to 11.
ARK WRECK
Paril, Mar. 23. Admiral Ton Tlr-
pltx hse become a pUyftlcai and men
tal wreck by brooding over tbe death
ot score, of bis closest friends In the
military circle. Ill Lbcerne and Berne.
A high Swiss military, authority
gave me some Information that ha
reached him recentiy, Just before I
left 6erne. ,
"Vori TlrpHi," be sald,."re8eTabfes
in sensitiveness the great japanes
military leader' hb; oYerwheltaed by
the" memory, of vftat (oeses of Japanese
soldiers be eent against Port Arthur,
committed suicide1 uptrtt tne death of
the laie Japaaese emperor. Vffi Tir
plts has died a thousand deaths tlnce
the war began. He has bide' fare
well' to hundred's, of splendid young
submarine officer, who wen out to
Perish miserably under the water.
The code among German submarine.
require, that" toe shoot themselves
when the situation ot their IT boat be
come hopeless. Von Tfrpfts ai pic
tured to himself for such Is the na
ture of bis mentality too" many ter
rible under-water" scenes involving his
friends. It la. known beyond a doubt
that von Tirrdta felt himself living in
a world of horrors. Even the kaiser
himself was unable to calm his self
reproach. ,
"German military men eay the
Lusitanta Incident was tbe beginning
ot von TlrplU breakdown. The
strain became too much. Both the
foreign and German newspapers the
latter boastlngly connected the
name of von Tlrplti with submarine
horrors. The thing became too per
sonal. It simply broke him down."
Fl'NSTOX WANTS MORE
AEROPMNE9 IX MEXICO
Washington, Mar. 23. General
Funston has asked for eight or ten
tmore aeroplanes, It was learned on
good authority this afternoon. It
may be necessary for tbe war depart
ment to purchase them. A number
are at San Diego, but they are mostly
hydro-aeroplanes, which can not be
used in land operations..
Oil
IPE 11
oEin nn
IB CONTROL OE
; EEII. PERSHING
El Paso, Mar. 23. General Persh
ing has taken control of tbe Mexico
North western railroad south of hi
base at Casas Grandee, It was unoffi
cially stated today. He Is said to
be transporting American Infantry
over the railway toward Madera, in
an effort to get behind Francisco
Villa while Colonel JDod4's cavalry
pushes the bandit chief and ' his fol
lowers southward. The Americans
were reported to have, entrained at
Casas Grande with equipment Persh
ing obtained at Cass Grandes and
Pearson-
Cavalry Is understood to be pro
tecting tbe line.. It is unknown
whether Pershing seized the road or
was given permission by the Car
ranzlstas to use it
ARMY PROGRESSES
fflESPEROSy
With tbe United Stale Army;
Some-
A. t
where in Northern Mexico, Tdeaday,
ttkf. (By Gdrlrnflent Wireless
tb Columbus, N. M., Mar. 23; delay
ed). We are making progress by
easy stages, owing to the big retinue
of supplies, field hospitals and am
munition wagons.
Since the army entered Mexico
from Columbus, this division head
quarters has traveled about 12 mile
a day, while the cavalry advance,
which crossed at' Gibson ranch, a
few miles, west, under General Persh
ing's personal command, did mu6h
better. 4That detachment has already
reached It permanent headquarters
at Casas Grandee. The division with
the accredited newspaper correspond
ent is expected to reach Casas
Grande Thursday. The correspond
ent Joined ihelr escort from army
headquarter, tor the march into Mex
ico Just before noon March 13.
Tbe march will be resumed tbday
toward 0)6 FredefW We should"
reach . Casas Grandes In two more
hikes. , ' ' ... ., :"
The army aeroplane, made (belt
base at data Grande la two short
flight. , ; . 1 ',
''?-! I", i i i-u t t.
COWIOF
Paris, Mar. 23. A greater entente,
bringing not only France, England
and Russia but the smaller of tbe
allies Into complete' accord, will re
sult from the conference, to be held
here late this week or early next.
. Military and .political leaders ot
the allies were assembling, here to1
day In advance of the meeting. They
plan to organize for concerted action,
both In a military and political way,
to shorten the war. ,
Since Arlattde Brland became prime
minister ot France, he ha worked
ceaselessly toward this end, and is
now called the artisan of the greater
entente. Briand will preside over the
deliberations.-
rnnce Kegent Alexander or Serbia
is due to arrive In Paris today. Gen-
eral Cadorna, Italian commadder - ln -
chief, Is already in Paris, and will be
El ITE
ALLIES
Joined shortly by General Potto, sec-1 Senator Works, of Los Angeles, d
ond in command. Great Britain will clared that advocates of preparedness
be represented by General Douglas were spreading a "gospel of fear and
Halg, Premier Asquith and others.
Premier Brland, General Joffre and
one or two French cabinet members
will represent France. General Gllln
sky will be Russia's representative,
and Premier De Broquevllle and Gen- he believed open discussion of the
eral Wlelemans will act for Belgium, situation "inadvisable." Sherman
General Cadorna visited the French jlater Issued a statement declaring "it
front today. The Serbian prince re- has become alarmingly apparent that
gent received an enthusiastic recep- Unr forces are pitifully weak and un
tlon when he arrived at two o'clock able to meet even a moderate emer
this afternoon. r 'gency, much lees a crisis, In Mexico;"
UPRISiOE
Elf
Hcrtlert Part icf lie Eep:b
lic Is n Ccniitica cl Ua
rest ed Core Accricb
Trdcps Dtrty to Ecriir
San Antonio, Mar. 23. Northern
Mexico today Is like a powder maga
zine with Ore burning on all sides.
The entire border tear of Mexican
uprisings ha been renewed. Though.
Major General Funiton ha not re
ceived official word of General Lul.
Herrera reported desertion tb the
Vllllstas. he is racing the situation
frankly and baa ordered additional
troops to the most dangerous border
points. ,.
Tie ra b'ailalloin of the Firth
infantry is en route to Columbus, and
a portion of the Twenty-fourth sot
required to protect General John J.
Pershing' lines of communication
will also be distributed along the
border. '
The Fourth artillery has been
transferred from ' Mercedes to
Brownsville; opposite Mata moras,
which J. a Teritable hot-bed of VU-
I.lstalsm. ,-,t ...r - '
The total American strength ' at
firownsvllle Is 5,000.
Army headquarters stated precau
tion were being taken to protect
Pershing's communications from re
volting Carranzistas.-
General Funston had no Informa
tion about tbe reported engagement
between Vniists and the Seventh
cavalry -detachment 80 miles sooth
Of Caea Grandea.v . The rumor that
two Americans and 83 Mexicans bad
been killed waa uhednnfmed. Fun
ston stated that the news might pos
sibly have reached the border before
it came to Ura. ; y , ',-"'''
General Bell's reported establish
ment of a censorship at El Paso was
"not Imbfobable." stan offtceffl said.
here: biis itett no" ofiicial innounce-
inetrl btf censorship orders beids; is
sued there. ' i ':."
MEXICANS ARRESTED FOR ,
PLOTTING EL PASO FIRE
El Paso, War! 23. Police Captain
Harf today claimed tb hive Informa
tion" of a plot cdncoeted by 200 Msl
can to. barn Et Paad and loot, the
city. t EJevea suspects were arrested,
including, Melchor Herrera, brother
of General Luis Herrera, Carran
' list; leader. ,
fit
voun CALL
Washington, Mar. 23. During a
turbulent debate on Mexico in the
mnx9 today, it was asserted" that a
sontu rjiakota cttuen had offered to
Wnd too troops to tbe border at Ms
own expense.
Senator Sherman tried to call np
bis resolution empowering the presi-
1 dent to ask for 60,000 volunteers, but
. he was unable to do so.
hate" and that President Wilson had
"fallen under its spell."
When Sherman tried repeatedly to
get a hearing on his volunteer mea
sure, Senator Stone Interposed that
