LOOK FOR THE
PLANOGRAVtlRE
WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER
FIVE CENTS.
Martial Law Is Proclaimed in
Athens, Piraeus and
Other Cities.
CONDITION OF KING
REPORTED SERIOUS
French Flag Run Up 011 Four
German and Three Austrian
Ships.
LONDON. September 2.?The revotu
tion in Greece is spreading: and martial
law has been proclaimed in Athens,
Piraeus and several other cities, ac
cording- to advices received in Rome.
The uprising is extending in Thes
saly and Epirus, which, together with
Greek Macedonia, in which the move
ment was inaugurated, constitute the
northern half of Greece.
The condition of King Constantine is
reported to be very serious. King Con
stantine has been in ill health for sev
eral months, never having recovered
from an operation for pleurisy. A shdrt
time ago a second operation was per
formed, but there have been no previ
ous indications that fhe king's condi
tion was serious.
Teuton Liners Seized.
Four GeA^nan Levant liners have
been seized in the harbor of Piraeus by
boarding parties from the entente al
lied fleet, according to a dispatch from
Athens to the Evening News. The
steamers were the Tinos, Anatolia,
Seriphos and the Boigalos.
The French flag today was hoisted on
these German ships and three Austrian
merchant vessels in the harbor.
Address Note to Premier.
The entente ministers at Athens, says
a belated dispatch from the Greek cap
ital. have drafted a note f$r presenta
tion to Premier Zaimis. The note prob
ably was handed to the Greek premier,
today. The tenor of jts contents is not
known.
Dispatches from Athens say that
Premier Zaimis had a lengthy audience
with King Constantine Thursday, and
afterward announced that Greece main
tained her policy.of friendly neutrality
toward the entente* while awaiting
events.
Asked to Preserve Treasures.
The Greek government has sent a
note to the belligrerent powers, says a
dispatch from Athens dated Friday, to
the Exchange Telegraph Company, ask
in'ff It "during military operations
in Greek territory as-well as in the
event of a siege bombardment to pre
serve the ancient monuments and other
national treasures."
As the ancient monuments and treas
ures of Greece are situated principally
in Athens the note has given rise to
some comment in the Greek capital.
Deputation Hot Received by King-.
The committee appointed at the pro
entente mass meeting in Athens last
Sunday to present to King Constantine
resolutions warning him not to Inter
fere In the political situation and urg
ing military preparations for possible
intervention in the war was received
on Friday by Premier ? Zaimis, an Ex
change Telegraph dispatch from Athens
says. The committee protested against
the failure of the king to receive it,
and declared it would be necessary to
hold another mass meeting to report on
the matter.
Premier Zaimis, the dispatch says,
urged the deputation to postpone its
decision until Saturday evening, giving
assurance that in the meantime the
questions which were the subject of
their representations would be cleared
up.
GENERAL DEFICIENCY BILL
IS PASSED BY SENATE
Provides the Money for Payment of
Policemen's and Firemen's
Pensions.
The general deficiency appropriation
bill, carrying upward of $15,000,000, was
passed by the Senate last night. It
gives life to the new law, providing a
more adequate police and firemen's re
tirement and pen:2sn system in the Dis
trict of Columbia, The District appro
priation act, signed by the President
Friday, which establishes this system,
failed to authorize the payment of the
moneys this fiscal year. The deficiency
bill permits the expenditure of not ex
ceeding $150,000.
The other District Items in the bill
and the Senate amendments relating to
the District of Columbia were all agreed
to by the Senate, including $150,000 ad
ditional for the restoration of the
courthouse, making the total amount
available for this purpose $350,000. and
the provisions for rental of quarters
for use of the District Supreme Court
while the work on the courthouse is
under way.
The deficiency bill carries a provision
for payment of salary to George Ru
blee, federal trade commissioner, for
his fifteen months* service before his
nomination was rejected by the Senate.
It appropriates $3,000,000 for payment
to Nicaragua of the money authorized
in the canal treaty, and contains va
rious deficiency items for the army and
navy and $100,000 for the farm loan
board.
ITALIANS AGAIN CHECK
ATTACKS BY AUSTRIANS
ROME. September 2. via London.?
Violent artillery fighting occurred yes
terday on the Trentlno front, the war
office announced today. Another Aus
trian attack In the Sugana valley waa
repulsed.
"The fighting yesterday consisted
principally of artillery actions, which
were especially violent on the Trentlno
front." the statement says: "In the
Sugana valley the enemy launched an
attack against oar positions on Monte
Ctvarone, but was driven off promptly.
"Hostile aircraft dropped bombs on
Rolle pass, at the head of the Ctsmon
valley. No damage was done."
Republican Candidate Answers
Claims in President's Ad
dress of Acceptance.
POINTS TO H!S RECORD
AS NEW YORK GOVERNOR
Denies Democrats Have Clarified the
Anti-Trust laws Through
Definition.
ST. LOUIS, September 2.?Charles E.
Hughes faced an audience in the Coli
seum here tonight that cheered him
twenty-one minutes, and in his talk re
ferred repeatedly to points made by
President Wilson in his acceptance
speech. "I protest," Mr. Hughes said,
"against the extravagant claim that the
anti-trust act was clarified by definition
by our opponents. They folded them
selves up in a vague phrase and pre
sented that as the solution.
"From the claims of our opponents
with respect to child-labor legislation
you would suppose they had discovered
the children." said Mr. Hughes.
"I am for the orotection of children.
I was for it before the present admin
istration was heard of.
Urged Child Labor Laws.
"I want to read to you,** said th^ nom
inee, "what a governor of a stale said
to a legislature nine years ago. He said
in 1907. *1 recommend to your careful
consideration the important subject of
child labor, laws for the protection of
children in securing for them their
rights through an elementary education,
and in surrounding them with appro
priate safeguards, making an especial
appeal to human sentiment, and *bat
nothing should be left undone to sive
them full effect.'
"That I *aid in the state of New
York, nine years ago."
Mr. Hughes referred to child labor
legislation enacted during his term as
governor of New York.
"1 think I know something of child
labor and the importance of protecting
it." he said. "The recent bill passed in
Congress affects a vej*y small number
of children in this country, and there
remains a vast amount of necessary
work to be done by our states before
child labor shall be prohibited to a de
gree which will safeguard this impor
tant asset. I am for the protection of
our children."
What is Unfair Competition P
The nominee declared that the busi
ness man had a right to know what he
could and could not do.
"Here we are again met with ex
traordinary claims." he said. "I sup
pose allusion is made to the federal
trade commission law. I have no'quar
rel with the composition of the trade
commission law, but I cannot accept
the crude statement of suggestion that
the anti-trust law has been clarified
by definition.
"It is said in the federal trade com
mission act that unfair methods of
competition in commerce are hereby
declared unlawful.
"Now, what are unfair methods of
competition? Naturally, a man in the
street would think about fraud. It is
not necessary to establish a trade com
mission to deal with fraud. Fraud has
been recognized by the common law
since its institution.
"No, they are not thinking of fraud.
Unfair competition has a different
meaning than fraud under the law.
^Time-Honored Phrase.'
"It is a time-honored phrase. We
know what it means. In a very simple
way of statement it may be said to have
relation to methods by which one man's
goods are palmed off as goods of anoth
er man through deceptive statements in
advertising and the like.
"Those things are described in the
law as unfair competition. Was this lav/
passed to reach them? Of course not.
Talk about clarifying the anti-trust act
by definition. Why, there is not a busi
ness man in the country who knows what
that act means or what he should do or
not do under it.
"I complain of the extravagant claims
made with respect to the clarification of
the law in the alleged interest of busi
ness when nothing of the. sort has been
done and the act expressly states that
nothing of the sort was attempted. You
cannot mislead the American people by
claims of that description."
Assails Mexican Policy.
Mr. Hughes assailed the administra
tion's Mexican policy.
"We said to Huerta not simply that
he would not be recognized, but that he
should not even be a candidate at a
Mexican election. Is that the way we
deal with a great and powerful state?
Do we dictate who shall be candidates
of great and powerful states? What is
the use of talking about treating small
and weak states in the way in which
we treat great states when we depart
from principle and get ourselves in
volved in serious difficulties by the de
parture when we attempt to control
Mexican politics Instead of adopting
the straight course of protecting the
lives and property of American citi
zens?"
Mr. Hughes' address in the Coliseum
was the third he had delivered today.
The first was at a non-partisan lunch
eon gathering of bankers, manufactur
ers and other business men, when he
declared that if elected he proposed, so
far as he could, "to open the door of
opportunity to honest American
achievement." He said that the time
had come to "make the ideals of the
American Declaration of Independence
the facts of American life."
Protective Tariff Views.
In outlining his views on a pro
tective tariff, he said that In framing
such a measure he would .want to know
the chief facts affecting the business
interests involved, notably the cost of
production here, the wage scale, the
hours of labor, the cost of production
abroad and other conditions under
which the commodities involved were
produced in this country.
Mr. Hughes made an open-air address
at the courthouse In Clayton, a sub
urb, this afternoon.
Soon after his arrival here he was
joined by William R. Willcox, repub
lican national chairman, with whom the
nominee held a long conference.
Southern Bail way lifts Embargo.
The Southern railway yesterday after
noon lifted lta embargo so as to make
all manner of freight acceptable with
out restriction on lta own llnea.
Speech Accepting the Demo
! cratic Nomination Greeted
| With Frequent Cheering.
Son way to Washington
I FROM HIS SUMMER HOME
Brief Stay at Shadow Lawn Made
the Occasion for Notable
Demonstration.
LONG BRANCH. N J., September 2.?
President Wilson today formally open
ed his campaig for re-election with
a speech accepting the democratic
nomination, in which he characterized
the republican party as "a practical
and moral failure" defended his Mex
ican and European policies, recited the
legislative achievements of his ad
! ministration and declared for a "big
America."
The President left Shadow Lawn at
11 o'clock tonight for Washington.
Scores Republican Party.
In his speech President Wilson wis
unsparing in his criticism of the re
publican party as a party of "mus
ter! y inactivity and cunning resource
fulness in standing oat to resist
chance,'" and said that old leaders
still select its candidate, but he did
not mention Charles E. Hughes, the
republican candidate, by name.
The President snokp from the ve
randa of his summer home to a crowd
which filled 8,000 chairs a?id over
flowed to the lawn.
Speaking in the open, his voice could
be heard bv only a small part of the
crowd, but those who did hear him
constantly interrupted with applause.
Once, when he said "T neither seek
the favor nor fear the displeasure of
that small alien element amongst us
which puts loyalty to any foreign
power before loyalty to the United
States," the crowd stood and cheered.
Brought to Dramatic Close.
The notification ceremonies were j
brought to a dramatic close when more j
than a score of American flatrs attached
to parachutes were fired into the air
by motars and unfolded ever the J 'resi
dent's head as a band played "Ameri
ca." Afterward Mr. Wilson stood more
than an hour on the veranda and shook
hands with several thousand men,
women and children.
Senator James of Kentucky, chairman
of the notification committee, intro
duced the President. When he, declared
that Mr. Wilson had kept America at
peace the crowd responded instantly
and applauded several minutes. He con
cluded by handing the President a copy
of the St. Louis platform.
Reading slawly, but distinctly from a
printed copy of his speech and fre
quently looking up to emphasize par
ticular points, Mr. Wilson spoke of the
democratic platform as a "definite
pledge." Reviewing the achievements
of the administration, he said: "Alike
in the domestic field and in the wide
field of the commerce of the world,
American business and life and indus
try have been set free to move as they
never moved before."
National Defense Program.
He said: "We have provided for na
tional defense upon a scale never be
fore seriously proposed upon the re
sponsibility of an entire political
party."
Concluding his list of measures passed
by Congress in the last three years, the !
President declared: "This extraordinary
r<-cital must sound iike a platform, a
list of sanguine promises, but it is not. !
It is a record of promises made four!
years ago and now actually redeemed j
in constructive legislation."
The.President made a bid for the pro- j
gressive vote by saying that "we have
in four years come very near to car- j
rying out the platfrom of the progres- |
sive party as well as our own, for we
are also progressives."
Further along, rebuking foreign-born
Americans who are not loyal to the
United States, he said: "I am the candi
date of a party, but I am'above all
things else an American citizen."
When Mr. Wilson declared that the
revolution* in Mexico is right, and that
so long at its leaders represent, how
ever, imperfectly, a struggle for free
dom he is ready to serve their ends i
the crowd applauded. Applause also j
greeted his declaration that America
must do its part in laying the founda
tion for world peace.
Defense of American Rights.
The policy of the United States in
dealing with violations of the rights of
Americans as a result of the European ,
was the President outlined thus: "That i
property rights can be vindicated by j
claims for damage when the war is|
over, and no modern nation can de
cline to arbitrate such claims, but the ?
fundamental rights of humanity can
not be."
The audience which listened to the
President's address of acceptance was
made up largely of residents of New
Jersey coast towns, but included dem
ocratic leaders from every section of
the country and delegations from New
York, Pennslyvania and other nearby
states.
Secretary Lansing, Secretry Houston,
Secretary McAdoo and Postmaster Gen
eral Burleson represented the cabinet,
and virtually all the members of the
notification committee, the democratic
national committee, the democratic
campaign committee and the associate
campaign committee of progressives also
were present.
Long Branch and West End were
decorated in red, white and blue for
the occasion, and the crowds which at
tended the ceremony were in festival
mood. Mr. Wilson himself was seldom
without a smile throughout the day.
Prior to his speech he entertained at
lunch, but tonight he remained at Shad
ow l>awn with members of his family
and his closest advisers until time came
to depart for Washington.
The President will arrive in Wash
ington early tomorrow and after a stay
of three hours, will leave for Hodgen
ville, Ky., to deliver a Lincoln speech
on Monday. He will return to Wash
ington Tuesday afternoon.
SUBSCRIBE MILLIONS
OF MARKS TO WAR LOAN
BERLIN. September 2. by wireless
to Sayville.?Subscriptions to the new
German war loan continue to come in,
although (he subscription lists will not
be opened officially until September 4.
The Krupp company has subscribed
40,000,000 marks. Four other corpora
2k have taken 50,000,000 marks.
M city administration of Berlin has
Mtibed 60,000.000 mark*.
*
'i J
DAD'S EMERGENCY PREPARATIONS.
Austrians Admit Forced Retire
ment Across Cerna North
of Orsova.
ALSO FALLING BACK
IN EAST TRANSYLVANIA
Evidently Carrying Out Plan of
Shortening Line?Bulgars Loyal
? to Central Powers, Is Claim.
LONDON, September 2.?In the first
hard battle between Rumanian and Aus
trian troops the Austrians have been
forced to retire across the Cerna river,
north of Orsova, near the Iron Gate on
the Danube. Vienna announces that the
Austrian troops withdrew after five days
of heavy fighting.
In eastern Transylvania the Austrian
retirement continues. Hermannstadt has j
been added to the towns given up to the
invading Rumanians. Apparently the
Austrians are carrying out their reported
plan of shortening the battle line in
Transylvania and ar? giving the Ruma
nians little opposition, except near Or
sova.
Withdrawal Admitted.
The t*-xt of the Austrian statement
reads: "Rumanian front?After five
days of heavy fighting near Orseva we
yesterday withdrew our troops to the
west bank of the Cerna.
"Near hermannstadt and north of
Kronstadt the enfmy follows only hesi
tatingly. New regiments are appearing
in the Gyergye mountains.
"Prince Lipoid's front?The Rus
sians again fiercely attacked the Ger
man and Austro-IIungarian troops to
the northeast and southeast of Svin
iusky and penetrated Korytniza, but
were later forced to retreat in disorder,
leaving a considerable number of-pris
oners in our hands.
"Our Danube flotilla sank a Russian
patrol boat in the lower Danube."
"On the Struma front and in the
region of Lake Doiran there was in
termittent cannonading/' says the
French statement. "Our artillery set
fire to the railway station at Porti
ovica, north of Gievgeli. Between the
Cerna river and the Vardar there was
some hand grenade fighting.
"A night attack delivered by the Bul
garians in the sector of Vetrenik was
repulsed easily by Serbian troops."
Bulgar Attitude Cited.
BERLIN. September 2, by wireless to
Sayville.?Dr. Rizow, the Bulgarian
minister to Germany, in an interview
in the Berliner Tageblatt is quoted by
the Overseas News Agency as saying:
"The entire Bulgarian nation knows
perfectly well that Rumania hates us
and that she cannot support the idea of
a great and strong Bulgaria after the
war allied to victorious Germany and
strengthened by Austria - Hungary.
Every one knows that Russian triumph
would lead to the end of Bulgarian in
dependence, as the way to Constantino
ple is through Bulgaria.
"For thes<* political and moral rea
sons Bulgaria could not take any other
decision. If we waited until Rumania
took the first step it will now be under
stood why.
"Our relations with Greece are good.
The Greek government has been correct
in its attitude toward us, and \*je would
not do anything likely to give the an
tagonists of the Greek government ar
gument for referring to the treaty be
tween Rumania and Greece as to the
guarantees of the Bucharest treaty. We
do not wish to furnish this arm to Veni
zelos and his party."
Disgust in Bulgaria, He Says.
A. To chew, the Bulgarian minister to
Austria-Hungary, in an Interview for
the Neue FreiJe Presse of Vienna said:
"Newspapers in hostile countries pub
lish insinuating reports that an im
pression is gained of vacillation on the
part of Bulgaria. All these reports
incite the greatest indignation' and
honest disgust in Bulgaria.
"I want to emphasize as strongly as
possible that Bulgaria will stand on
the side of the (Teuton) allies until the
end of the war and beyond that time.
Bulgaria entertains no fears whatever.
She is conscious of what she is fight
ing for. Nothing can make Bulgaria's
loyalty waver. < Bulgaria has the full
est confidence in her allies, who have
stood the test, and her allies fully
confide in Bulgaria."
AIRSHIPS RAID ENGLAND;
ONE FALLS IN FLAMES
Attacks 011 London Beaten Off.
Many Bombs Dropped By
Germans.
LONDON, September 3. 4:04 a.m.?
One of a squadron of German Zeppelins
which raided England tonight, with
London and the eastern countries ap
parently as their objective, was brought
down in flames, an official announce
ment says. Many bombs were dropped,
but no reports of casualties have been
received. The statement says:
"The attack tonight was made by a
larger number of airships than ever
previously raided England. The east
ern counties of London apparently were
their objective. The attack on London
was beaten off and one. raider was
brought down in flames.
."Many bombs were dropped in wide
ly separated localities, but no reports
of casualties or damage have been re
ceived as yet."
25 INJURED IN WRECK!
Nine Coaches of Chicago and Cin-i
cinnati Flyer Go Over Embank
ment in Michigan.
GRAND RAPIDS. Mich. September 2.?
Twenty-five persons were reported in
jured, several ^eriously, when a broken
rail on the Grand Rapids and Indiana
railroad at Wilkins switch, near Man
celona, Mifh., caused nine coaches of
the Chicago and Cincinnati flyer to go
over an embankment late tonight.
Automobiles have been requisitioned
to bring the Injured to Kalka.ska and
Mancelona.
The spot where the wreck occurred
is about fifty miles south of Petoskey,
the heart of a popular resort district.
At a late hour tonight local officials
of the road had only meager reports,
which did not contain the names of any
persons hurt nor indicate whether any
had suffered fatal injuries. The vi
cinity is sparsely populated and tele
graphic communication is difficult.
LABOR DAY.
The regular edition of
The Star will be issued
tomorrow at 1 o'clock
and delivered at once
throughout the city.
Classified Advertise
ments must be in The
Star office by 10:30 a.m.
to insure insertion in
Monday's Star,
?aft
BANS GAINING
EAST OF LEMBERG
Offensive in Galicia and Buko
wina Regions Continues
Successfully.
MORE HEIGHTS SEIZED ON
HUNGARIAN FRONTIER
Berlin Eeports Repulse of Several
Enemy Attacks and a Gain
Near Thorow.
LONDON, September 2.?The new
Russian offensive in Galicia and Buko
wina continues successfully. Against
strong- Austrian resistance, Petrograd
says, the Russians have taken posi
tions forty miles east of Lemberg.
Near the Hungarian frontier several
heights have been captured.
Attacks by the Russians against the
Austro-German lines in Volhynia, Ga
licia and the Carpathians were re-1
pulsed, Berlin says. Some ground was
gained north of Thorow, Galicia, and
nearly 1,500 prisoners have been taken
by the armies of Prince Leopold and
Archduke Charles, it is declared.
Russian Official Report.
The Russian official announcement
follows:
"Southwest of the village of Toboly,
thirty-eight miles northeast of Kovel,
on the Stokhod, the enemy resumed the
offensive, but was repelled by the fire
of our infantry.
"In the direction of Vladimir-Volyn-j
ski, near Sheltuvov and Koroytniza, j
fierce fighting continues.
"In the directions of Zlochoff (forty
miles east of Lemberg) and of Halicz
our troops, as the result of a battle, ad
vanced and captured several positions.
"The enemy, who was compelled to
retire westward, is offering stubborn
resistance by counter attacks, but these
have been repelled everywhere by our
troops.
"In the direction of Korosmezo (near
the Hungarian frontier) we captured
several heights south of Voromenka."
German Communication.
The German official statement regard
ing the eastern theater of war says:
"Army group of Prince Leopold?
Southwest of Lutsk the Russians con
tinued their efforts against our troops
under Gen. Litzmann. Their oft-re
peated attacks were delivered with
greatly superior numbers, and they had
temporary successes near Korytnica.
The enemy was driven back in disorder
by our counter attacks. Yesterday and
the day before we captured here ten
officers and 1,100 men and took several
machine guns. North of Zborow our
troops, counter attacking, gained some
ground.
"Army group of Archduke Charles?
Northwest of Mariampol the Russian
forces, which had advanced, retreated
before our artillery Are. In the Car
pathians numerous local enemy enter
prises failed. The success of the
Silesian at Kukutl was further ex
tended. The number of prisoners cap
tured was increased by two officers and
373 men. Seven machine guns and two
mine throwers were taken."
RESIGNATION ACCEPTED.
Alexander M. Kepple Retires From
rerminal Company Snperintendency.
Alexander M. Kepple, for' the past
jeven years superintendent of the
Washington Terminal Company, has
endered his resignation, which has
jeen accepted. Bernard R. Tolson. chief
;lerk to Mr. Kepple, has been desig
lated as acting superintendent.
Mr. Kepple has been In charge of the
business of the terminal company,
which operates the railroads at the
Union station, since January 1, 1909.
CHIEFS HALT STRIKE AS
NATION GRANTS 8-HOUR
LAW TO RAILROAD MEN
U. S. Traffic to Be Undisturbed by Titanic
Struggle That Was Scheduled to Begin
Throughout Country Tomorrow.
HOUSE MEASURE, PASSED BY SENATE, *
TO BE SIGNED BY PRESIDENT TODAY
Brotherhoods, Sparred by Prompt Action of Congress, as Urged by
President, Respond Qnickly, and Orders to Remain at Work Are
Rushed by Wire?Union Leaders to See Bill Signed.
The nation-wide railroad strike ordered for tomorrow morn
ing at 7 o'clock was called off at 8:45 o'clock last night by the
brotherhood chiefs.
This followed the passage by the Senate without amendment,
by a vote of 43 to 28, of the Adamson eight-hour bill, which had
been passed by the House Frida^night. carrying the approval of
the President and meeting the demands of the brotherhoods. It
was signed by Acting President Clarke of the Senate and Speaker
Clark at 6:16 p.m.
It is to be signed by President Wilson at the White House this
morning at 7:30 o'clock, during a brief stop on his return here from
Shadow Lawn, en route to Hodgenville, Ky. The four brotherhood
presidents who have waged the successful campaign for the railroad
employes have been invited to be present at the ceremony.
EMBRACES PRESIDENT'S PROPOSALS.
The measure as passed embraces virtually all of the President's
original proposals to the employes and the railroad executives as a
basis of settlement, although it is only a part of the legislative pro
gram he advocated to Congress last Tuesday, when his personal ef
forts as mediator had failed.
This calling off of the strike through code messages transmitted
to 640 general chairmen and by a chain system to the more than
350,000 members of the four brotherhoods relieves a fear that has
been paralyzing all business interests throughout the United States
and threatened fo cause suffering and deprivation in practically
every home in the country. Embargoes that had been declared by
railroads have been canceled generally. .
Temporarily, at least, it settles a tense controversy that has
engrossed practically the en me attention of President Wilson for
three weeks, and has been the most vexing problem of his admin
istration.
Send 600 Code Messages.
Three hours after the Senate had pass
ed, without amendment, the Adamson
eight-hour-day bill, passed by the House
Friday, the heads of the four great
railroad employes' brotherhoods tele
graphed 600-odd code messages to their
general chairmen in all parts 01 the
country, canceling the strike order is
sued a week ago to take effect tomorrow
morning at 7 o'clock.
These code messages released a chfiin
system of messages to be transmitted
to every one of the 350.000 brotherhood
members concerned in the threatened
strike.
The messages sent out last night do
not conform with those handed the 640 j
committeemen when they left here last
Sunday. It was explained that some of
the 640 chairmen lost their code mes- !
sages, which were in sealed white enve- I
lopes, on their way home from Wash- |
ington, and upon being advised of this j
fact the brotherhood heads here
changed the entire list. The new set of
code was sent out during the week by
mail, which explains the great output
of envelopes which have left the broth
erhood headquarters in the last few
days and which caused much specula
tion.
Announces Strike Called Off.
After the message had been sent, A.
B. Garretson. president of the Order
of Railway Conductors, and spokesman
for the employes, came downstairs
from the brotherhood headquarters in
the National Hotel and announced that
the strike had been officially called
off.
"The committee has just decided to
call off the strike," he said, "and mes
sages to our general chairmen to this
effect soon will be on their way."
A few moments later W. G. Lee, head
of the trainmen, appeared and gave his
view of the situation.
"Of course, I am pleased that we have
j avoided a strike," he said. "We did not
want a strike any more than any one
j else in this country, but we had come to
a point where if a strike became neces
sary to win our demands we were will
ing to go into one. I feel confident, too,
| that we would have emerged victorious
if a strike had been necessary.
To Help Obtain New Rates.
"That situation, however, now is
past. I do not know what the future
may bring as a result of the eight
hour day legislation. It is probable,
of course, that the railroads will ask
for increased freight rates. If they
can show that they are deserving of
them the 'brotherhoods will help obtain
them. But unless they can show good
cause for advances of course we will
not go to their assistance.
"The bill as enacted today does not
contain all that we should have liked
to have. We were willing, however,
to make sacrifices and we made them.
We are willing to abide by the legis
lation as passed by Congress."
Represent Great Number.
Mr. Lee's statement is of particular
value on account of the fact that he
represents a much larger number of
the employes than any of the four
other brotherhood chiefs. In taking the
strike vote, 128,812 members of his
brotherhood voted to strike and 4,350
against it, making a total of 133,162
out of the 350,000 employes concerned.
Besides this, Mr. Lee in his brother- <
hood has 35,000 men in yard service. ,
These are on a ten-hour contract basis, so
that the establishment of an eight-hour
day with pro rata overtime gives them 1
a flat 20 per cent increase in salary. :
W. S. Carter and W. S. Stone, heads
of the firemen and engineers, respec- ]
tively, gave out ?jio statements further j
than to say thjw they were pleased i
with the outcome of the negotiations. '
Future plans of the four brotherhood
7
heads were somewhat vague. They said
that they expected to remain here until
some time next week and close up their
unfinished business. Other members of
the committee of thirteen plan to leave
Washington tomorrow.
Doubt Value of Court Case.
Brotherhood leaders were inclined last
night to regard lightly reports that the
railroads will make a determined fight on
the constitutionality of the eight-hour
day. for they feel that the ten-hour
day is a thing of the past now regardless
of how the courts may interpret the
Adamson bill.
The practical operation of the eight
hour day, they declare, would convince
the piiblic and the railroads that it
was a step in the right direction, as
they aver it already has proven on*
roads which have adopted it.
All of the official iftrtices regarding
the negotiations here and copies of the
bill will be mailed out to different
brotherhood headquarters from Wash
ington.
It developed last night that brother
hood heads who were in a committee
room just off the Senate yesterday sent
a message on to the floor by a senator
shortly before the final vote was taken,
indicating clearly that they had no in
tention of calling off the strike before
the bill became a law.
Preceded by Much Discussion.
Their action had been preceded by
much discussion on the^ floor as to
whether they were in earnest about
ttieir declaration not to call off the
strike under any promise that the bill
would become a law.
Eventually one of the senators went
into the committee room and asked
them just what their position was. The
four heads gave a reply, quoting A. B
Garretson as follows:
"Just as soon as the House bill, un
amended, becomes a law, the strike or
der will be recalled."
Then to this quotation was added the
following line:
"Any other statement upon this sub
ject is absolutely unauthorized."
All four of the brotherhood heads
signed the statement and the senator
leturned to the floor with it. Shortly
thereafter the final vote was taken.
Leaders Vote Unanimously.
Issuance'of the orders of cancellation
followed a meeting of the four brother
hood heads and thirteen remaining
members of their committee of 640.
Some opposition to acting before the
President actually had affixed his sig
nature was evidenced in the meeting,
but in the end the seventeen voted
unanimously to call off the strike im
mediately.
All of the code messages had been
prepared jn advance, and as quickly as
the decision was announced clerks
rushed to telegraph offices with arm
loads of the messages.
No two of the more than 600 dis
patches were alike. One of then) read:
"It is reported that a big fire in raging
in Toronto." Another said: "There is
danger of your house burning
tomorrow." Even the brotherhood
heads did not know what ah the inch
sages contained, the composition of
them having been left to clerks.
Abandon Original Plan.
The original plan to wait until the
President had signed the bill before
calling off the strike was abandoned !ii
order to facilitate transmission of the
messages. It was thought that if the
order was not sent out until today
many small telegraph offices probably
would be closed, and the 10.000 or more
local chairmen, all of whom in turn
are to receive messages from the
general chairmen, might not be ad
vised.
The argument also was advanced tha^.
