THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and pleasant to-day and to-morrow;
moderate northwest winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 77; lowest, 62.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 12,
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 3.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1916. Copyright, 1910, by the Sun Printing and Publiihing Attodation.
54 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
S5UVL
TWO CITIES ARE
TAKEN IN GREAT
RUMANIAN DASH
Herniniuistadt. and Minus
Vasarhely Occupied by
the Invaders.
AI'STMAXS ROUTED
IX ORSOVA REGION
A iv Driven Across Cerna,
Opening New Gate Into
Hungary.
.WILL MAKE STAND
OX LINE OF MAROS
Second Teuton Defensive
Position Now Under Fire
of Rumanian Guns.
I.okdov, Sept. 2. New and Important
Rumanian successes all along the front
are admitted to-day officially by the
Teutonic Powers. The city of Her
mannstadt has been occupied, while the
Rumanians to the south In the Impor
tant sector around Orsova, near the
Iron Uates of the Danube, have driven
tha Austrlans across the Iltver Cerna
In the hottest fighting in the new thea
'rf'of war. and to the north have pene
trated sixty-five miles to the Austrian
fond line of defence. The Invaders
now control some 10,000 square miles of
Transylvania.
Herman troops are being- hurried to
Transylvania to stem the Rumanian
tide. Fifty thousand men have reached
Kfausenburg (Kotoazvar), fifty miles
west of Maroa Vasarhely, which the
Rumanian have occupied. German
rilments,have been withdrawn from
Verdun to fight In Transylvania, ac
rtrdlng to despatches from The Hague.
There Is every Indication that the Aus
tria Intend to make a stand on the
line of the Maroa Hirer.
Aastrlaaa ratline Back.
Tiic occupation of Hermannstadt gives
the Rumanians the aecond of the two
most Important cities of eastern Tran
sylvania. They already had taken Kron
UJt, to the east The Austrlans evac
uate! Hermannstadt on Wednesday, ac
cording to the official statement tele
graphed here from Berlin. On the same
Aay tluy evacuated Sepsl-Sient Oeergy,
extern miles northeast of Kronstadt
Hermannstadt, called by the Hun
Isrlans Nagy-Siebcn and by the Ru
manians Slbllu, has a population of
Si.noo. a majority of which Is Rumanian.
I' is flftpui miles from the northwestern
Rumanian border, and to take It the Ru
manian forced the Rothen Thurm Pasa
through the Transylvantan Alps, which
t!ey attacked last Sunday night Imme
diately after declaring war. The city Is
an ancient fortified town, with many
t.otablc buildings, often visited by tour-
lit!..
It l strategically situated at a rail
read Junction, and from It Rumanian
troops may advance by rail toward the
Maroa Illver line. Sepsl-Szent Qeorgy
ha a population of 1,000 and Is on a
strategic railroad.
Itumanlaas Win at Orsova.
Rumanian success In very heavy fight
ing at Orsova, on the Danube, a point
of great Importance to the Austrlans, is
admitted in a late official Austrian state
ment received here to-night after fre
quent Austrian htatemcnts that the Ru
manians were being beaten there. After
five day of tierce attack and equally
tierce defence the Rumanians attacking
Orsova forced the Austrlans to retreat
over the Hler Cerna to Its western
bank. Despatches from Bucharest an
iiiur.ee that the Rumanians also domi
nate with their artillery the railroad
from Orsova west to Temesvar, a forti
fied city.
All Indications are that an Austrian
retreat still further In this direction will
h forced soon. If so It will lay open to
lnalon eastern Hungary and Insure
'he occupation of all or almost all of
TistisylvanM, Orsova Is at the Iron
Gates nf the Danube, at the Junction of
three countries, Rumania, Hungary and
Serbia. It Is opposite Turnu Severln. the
westernmost point of Rumania, and Is
one of the strategic gates of Hungary.
Austrian retirement In that region
would upset the plan to defend a line
from Orsova to Dorna Vatra, along the
river Maros. The Austrlans are expected
to make a hard fight from behind the
ratural harrier of the river Cerna, which
almost parallels the Rumanian border
for twenty-five miles, emptying into the
Danube Just below Orsova.
Maroa Vasarhely Occupied.
The farthest advance of Rumanian
troops Into Transylvania yet reported Is
'ci of In despatches from The Hague,
which fay the rlty of Maroa Vasarhely
ha heen abandoned by the Austrlans
W'l occupied by the Invaders. This city,
hout sixty miles northeast of Hermann
!'. Is sixty. live miles from the Ru
"UiiMn border and on the east bank of
tr.e river Maros. It has a population of
Situated upon an Important railroad
ln. whlrh follows the winding course of
're Maros to Tcnesvar, Maros Vasarhely
" an Important position. The place prob
M was occupied by Rumanian troops
"'nlig south along the railroad from
t. iSxcriryi) Mountains, where, accord
ing "j tha Austrian official report to
r's more Rumanian troops have ap
roared. n IIih Balkan front In northern Mace
' i the Alllea are gaining ground.
Tn SVrldans drove bank tho Utilitarian
r K' wing to-day and recaptured the
' ' (iordlcavo, The llulgars, at
tr in dense formation, were mowed
oov. ny tho Serbian artillery, which
Continued on Fourth) tag.
GREEK REVOLUTIONISTS
v trrn mm. .. .
uhtu iu trnvt nation
TO WAR AGAINST TEUTONS
Entente Ministers Draft Note to Government While
German and Austrian Ships Are Seized by Fleet
Rebels Control Northern Portion of Country.
London, Sept. 2. News that Greece
has finally Joined the Allies and de
clared war upon the Central Powers !
expected without delay. The Entente
Ministers at Athens have drafted a note
which they were to present to Premier
Zalmts this morning. To a pro-Ally
committee urging that Oreece Join the
Allies on Friday the Premier said thut
by to-night all their questions would be
settled.
The allied fleet off the Plrwus has
seised four German and three Austrian
ships and sailors from the fleet have
taken possession of the wireless appa
ratus at the Greek arsenal. It Is re
ported that martial law has been de
clared In Athens and the f'lrieus anil
everything Indicates that a crisis of
great moment exists in the Oreek capital.
In northern Greece the revolution baa
spread like wildfire, and the rebels now
control almost alt the northern half of
the country. Tho revolutionary com
mittee Is appealing to tha people to vol
unteer to nght with the Allies against
the Bulgar Invaders, and despatches say
that most of the Greek cavalry there,
the whole Eleventh army division and
alt the gendarmes have Joined the move
ment. Constantlne Reported III.
King Constantlne Is reported to be 111.
but there Is no official confirmation of
reports of his abdication. Tho King has
been assured, despatches say, that the
Allies do not aim at Greece In selling
German and Austrian ships or occupying
parts of Athens. It Is said that Ger
man spies had been operating from
Athens, and that the measures Just taken
are aimed at them. Seizing the wireless
has prevented the Teutonic ministers
from communicating with their capitals.
A committee of national defence prac
ZEPPELINS IN NEW
RAID ON ENGLAND
Drop Bombs on Cities on East
Const One Falls in Flames
in London Suburb.
i
London, Sept ((Sunday), A squad
ron of German Zeppelins raided England
last night, with London and the eastern
counties apparently as their objective,
an official statement announces.
One of the raiders was brought down
in flames. Many bombs were dropped,
but no reports of casualties have been
received.
The Zeppelin was over the London
district when It was struck, and de
scended In flames In the open country.
The explosion was visible for a great
distance. Crowds everywhere cheered
loudly on witnessing the burst of flames
In the sky.
The text of the official statement Just
Issued says:
' "The attack to-night was made by a
larger number of airships than ever pre
viously raided England. The eastern
counties of London apparently were their
objective. The attack on London was
beaten off and one raider was brought
down In flames.
"Many bombs were dropped In widely
separate localities, but no reports of cas
ualties or damage have been received as
yet."
An earlier statement said :
"Shortly berore 11 o'clock In the even
ing our eastern coast was attacked by
several hostile airships, llombs have
already been dropped on a tew places.
No details have been received as re
gards the number of raiders or their ob
jective. The raid Is still progressing."
Zeppelin raids on England have been
frequent recently. In the last one, on
August 24, on the east coast and Lon
don outskirts, eight persons were killed
and thlrty-sevt.. nurt. A few days be
fore airships l.. raided the coast The
last Important laid on London was In
October 1915, when 6S persons were
killed and 114 hurt.
The German Zeppelin brought down In
flames In the latest night raid Is the sec
ond to meet with disaster In attempted
attacks on London this year. On March
31 last the Zeppelin L-15 was damaged
In a raid over the eastern counties, and
during the night came down off the
Thames estuary. On January 31. 191.
the Zeppelin L-19 was lost In the North
Sea. She Is believed to have been dam
aged by English coast batteries. The
n -n t - wn, insf In a snowstorm
off the coast of Denmark February 18,
191S. after participating in a ram un
u..ii. nnvianii. The total number of
Zeppelin's lost by Germany In the war Is
uncertain, oui jiruuau.j "
thirty.
SERIOUS CARRANZA REVOLTS.
Rebel Uprising; In Stnnloai Take
Cullacan and Masatlan.
Douglas. Ariz.. Sept. 2. Serious
revolts against the Carranza govern
ment have occurred In Slnaloa, Jollsco,
Durango Oaxaca and Teplc, according
to reports received here to-day from
the Interior of Sonora by Americans.
The reports corroborated previous
rumors that Mazatlan, the largest city
of Hlnaloa. had been taken by forces
under Gen. Carrasco, n former Car
ranza leader.'nnd added that Cullacan,
second city of the State, had fallen
Into the hands of the rebels.
BLAST IN RUPPERT BREWERY.
Piston nod Breaks and Pedestrian
Tarns In Fire Alarm.
A piston rod broke In the power house
of the Jacob Ruppert Ilrewery. 206-209
East Ninety-second street, last night,
knocking off the head of a steam chest
and filling the room with steam,
Tt.n ..ii- nt tl.n tinwpr h nil He under the
direction of John Schuler, engineer, had
the ultuatlon in nana ny me iinio ine
rescue squad responded to tho alarm
un. i- i.u an Avelted nedestriun. who
said an ammonia tank had exploded.
tically dominates all of Macedonia,
Thcssaly and Hplrus, the northern Greek
provinces. Its leaders are M. Argyro
poules, former Prefect of Salonlca :
Lieut. -Col. Klmbriittakl and Lleut.-Col.
Mexarnkes. They have organized many
pro-Ally meetings and parades and Is
sued a proclamation urging the people to
"drive the llulgar oppressors front Ureelt
soil."
There was a parade In Salonlca on Fri
day, In which all the gendarmes and
cavalry marched. Armed Greek volun
teers also paraded, the blue and whlto
uniforms of the Macedonian hussars be
ing prominent.
Expect Siege at Atheas.
In Athens events are hastening to a
climax. Much comment has been
caused by a note the Government has
sent to all the belligerent Powers asking
that "during military operations on
Greek territory as well as In the event
of a siege bombardment care be taken to
preserve the ancient monuments and
other national treasures." Most of these
monuments and treasures are In Athens.
A manifesto of the revolutionists Is pub
lished In the Athens newspapers urging
Greeks to volunteer to fight the Bulgars.
The Pafris says the Greek elections will
be useless and urges quick action to
prevent disaster.
Two things are regarded as significant
of what will be the national policy In
the war. Premier Zalmls had a long
interview with King Constantlne on
Thursday. Ex-lremler Venlzelos In an
Interview said that If Bulgaria should
be crushed or ask peace before Greece
Joined the Allies, Greece would be buried
In the Balkans by Rumania.
Despatches from Athens say that tho
ships seized In the Hrrrus were the Ger
man Levant liners Tlnos, Anatolia,
Serlphos and Bolglalos. All are of about
S.O00 tons. Thn Austrian vessels are
not named.
ROCKEFELLER WARS
ON PUTNAM LOOP
Believed to Be Backing Poti
.tion to Switch Railroad at
Focantico Hills.
rouoiiKKtrstc, Sept t. A petition is
being circulated at rocantlco Hilts to
have the loop on the Putnam Railroad
between East View and rocantlco Hills
eliminated. This Is what John D. Rocke
feller has l"ng desired, for the railroad
cuts through the centre of his property.
While Mr. Rockefeller has not signed
the petition. It Is believed that he Is
backing It. Between East View and To.
antlro Hills there Is a horseshoe turn
and tho grade Is heavy. This causes the
engines, especially those of the freight
trains, to labor hard, and thn noise Is
most annoying to Mr. Rockefeller.
Wealthy residents. Including Dr.
Charles C. nrnce. Samuel Ullman. Mrs.
Harry Allen Grant, James Butler, Mrs.
David I.. Milton and others, are believed
to be favorable to th petition, for the
railroad runs past their homes and they
dislike the noise.
Tarrytown also would like the tracks
removed so It rnuld ralso the dam on Its
lakes from which It gets its water sup
ply. If the petition Is successful, the sta
tloes at Tarrytown Heights, Tower Hill
and rocantlco Hills n III be abandoned and
a stage line will bo run from I'ocantlco
Hills to East View.
It is said that If the Public Service
Commission orders the change Mr.
Rockefeller will give land along the
foot of Buttermilk Hill on the extreme
west side of his property for a track to
connect Eastvlew with Hrlarcllfr Manor,
This would Ktralghten out the Putnam
line and eliminate grade. It would also
shorten the line.
While the elimination of the Putnam
road would be nf great benefit to Mr.
Rockefeller, he will not win without a
hard fight. Many of the old residents
oppose wiping the village off the map,
and even If Mr. Itockefeller owns more
than half of the hamlet he has made fa
mous a long light Is expected.
FEAR CANOEISTS DROWNED,
Their Craft Foand Half Filled
With Water at ftbepard Plare.
PoiToiiKEEPHlK, Sept. 2 John Dooley
and Lloyd Keleher of The Ilronn, while
on a canoeing trip to Croton Point this
morning, found an empty canoe half
rilled with water opposite the dock at
Mrs. Klrley J. Shepard's place. The
canoe had a white stripe around top
and was named "IJ 2."
It contained part of a camper's outfit,
and It Is feared the occupants were
drowned bv the swell from a night boat
on the Hudson. The rnnoe Is not known
In local waters, so It Is believed that It
belonged to New York parties on a trip
over the holidays. No body has as yet
been recovered.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS,
AS FOLLOWS:
I'agm
, General News, Auto-
mobiles, Reel Estate . . 12
Sporting. Kenneli . . 8
Newi of the Resorts,
Schools, Fashions, Gar
dens. Drama , , , , 8
Pictorial Magazine . . 8
Special Feature Section . 10
Editorial, Foreign, Books,
Queries, Financial, Prob
lems, Chess .... 8
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
FOURTH
FIFTH
SIXTH
Total
54
RtaJtrt or ntitiitaUn uho Jo not it
(lit all of thest uctlont will conjtr a
jator on "Tht Sun" by notifying tht Pub
lication Dtpartmtnt at once by thi phone
(2200 Bttlpnan) and mltitnt uctlont
ulll bt promptly JonctrJoJ If potilblt.
WILSON STANDS
m RECORD OF
PLEDGES KEPT
Accepts Keiiominntion on u
Basis of Party Prom
ises Redeemed.
ONLY ENTHUSIASM DUE
TO HYPHENATE ATTACK
Fifteen Thousand Persons,
Mostly From New Jersey,
Hear His Speech.
TAMMANY MISSING
AT SHADOW LAWN
Sheriff Smith. Senator
Wagner and Two Federal
Appointees on Hand.
Long Branch, X. J., Sept. 2. Stand
ing before the big pillared portico of
Shadow Lawn, the old McCatl place
here, and facing a crowd that packed Its
broad terrace and spilled over on to the
sloping south lawn. President Wilson this
afternoon accepted for the second time
a Democratic nomination for the Presi
dency and defended his four years In of
fice as a record of promises redeemed In
constructive legislation.
Weak applause greeted most of the
points In the President's epech, read
carefully and In a voice ttia: reached
only a email part of his audience, but
there was nn exception to this when, In
touching on the so-called hyphenate Is
sue, he said he did not reek the fvor
nnr fr the displeasure, "of that small
alien element among us which puts loy
alty to any foreign Power before loyalty
to the United States." Then hats went
up In tha air, parasols were waved and
there was some real cheering.
Only Rla Congressmen.
The day was almost perfect and the
place Ideal for a ceremony nf this kind.
But there were disappointing features.
For one thing, ths refusal of the four
railroad brotherhood chiefs to let Con
gress off until It had passed the eight
hour legislation resulted In u show that
was almost devoid of statesmen. As
originally planned, almost every Demo-,
rrutlc lawmaker of prominence was to i
have been here. As it was, exactly two
Senators and four Heprrsetitatlxee
showed up. There were In addition to
these four members of the President's
Cabinet and one lone tlovernor. Fielder
of New Jersey, for the crowd to gaxe 1
1 upon.
I Jim Nugent and his crowd turned up
with a band that Insisted upon playing ,
.'The Wearing of the dreen" Just ufter
the notification had got nicely started
'and It had to be postponed until the
band got through. Nugent had previous
ly shaken hands with the President be
fore a crowd In the reception hall.
Tammany Is Mlsslntt.
nut If the Nugentltes were there with
burled animosities. Tammany was not.
As an organisation It cut the affair dead.
Not enough Tammany men came to fill
a trolley car. Sheriff Smith and State
Senator Wagner motored down and they
with Surveyor Thomas K. Hush and Ap
praiser flattery Dan Finn, the two
Tammany men holding Federal Jobs,
about made up the Tammany contingent
Among the members of the national
committee there was visible disappoint
ment over this failure of Tammany to
be kind and neighborly on a day that
meant so much to the President. Charles
F. Murphy spent the day nt Hood
around.
It was a crowd of Jerseyltes and sum
mer folk that flowed In the gates i.nd
over the ample ucres of Shallow Lawn
this afternoon. They came to sen what
the President and Mrs. Wilson looked
like as much us to hear the speech
When 4 o'clock came there were pos
sibly 15,000 of them Inside the grounds.
Preceded hr a Hereptloa,
Hefore the public was admitted the
President held a reception and luncheon
for the specially Invited guests. Most
of them arrived In a special train from
New York at 1 :lj. Some of the Jer
seyltes arrived a little earlier, which
gave the President an opportunity to
talk politics with "tate Chairman Cross
cup. National Committeeman Hudspeth
and Otto Wlttpenn. Hie candidate for
tlovernor.
As tho members of thn notification
committee, led by Senator Ollle James
and Chairman McCormlrk entered the
mansion the President and Mrs. Wilson
met them In the reception hall and shook
hands with everybody, Mrs, Wilson
worn a gown with a blue lace effect
and a black and white hat. Mr, Wilson
wore a dark bluo rout, while flannels
faultlessly creahed and white canvas
shoes. The Piesldent hud as his nouae
guests MIhh Wilson, MIkk Helen Wood
row Hones, the Misses Kmlth of New Or
leans, Kdward T. Brown and Miss Brown
of Atlanta, John Randolph Boiling, a
brother of Mrs. Wilson, and Mrs. Joseph
Wilson and Miss Alice Wilson of Balti
more, the President's rister-ln-law and
niece,
The Cabinet members present were
Secretaries Lansing, McAdoo and Hous
ton and Postmnster-deneral Burleson. J
up of Senators Jumes and Martlnc nnd
Iteprcscntatlves Hetlln. Talbot, rfcullv
und OlaHS, There were about liOO guests
In all at tne luncheon und reception.
I.avrn a Brnatlful Scene.
In the north pagoda outside a band
furnished music, while the crowds of
Jersey folk anxiously waited for the
time to come for tlio grounds to be open.
By 2 :30, when tho barriers were re
moved, automobiles by the thousands
were parked along the streets nnd In the
grounds adjoining And persons from all
the summer resorts along the const were
waiting to enter.
There was a burst of handclaps when
Mrs. Wilson appeared with lire miests
and took n seat under the stand. She had
changed her gown and this time was
dressed all In white.
At 4 o'clock there was a blare from
Continued on Sixth Pago,
RAILWAY STRIKE ORDER CANCELLED;
SENATE PASSES HOUSE 8 HOUR BILL;
WILSON TO SIGN NEW LAW TO-DA Y
TRAFFIC JAMMED IN
LATE HOLIDAY RUSH
Kailroad Terminals Crowded
With Travellers After
Strike Danger Ends.
Itallroads recouped In a measure yes
terday and last night the heavy loss
suffered In tho Labor Day holiday traffic
because of the strike fear. Beginning
with csrly In tho morning all the big
passenger terminals In Manhattan. Jer
sey City and Houoken were crowded by
thousands llcelng from town until after
Monday.
It has been the rule for the exodus to
begin on Thursday preceding Labor Day.
This year there was a tremendous falling
off because on Thursday there seemed no
avoidance of a railroad strike. Only a
fraction of the normal traffic wns re
ported.
After the House passed the eight hour
bill Friday the offices of the railroads
were deluged with Inquiries for short
trips, two day vacations to the Catskllls
and other nearby resorts. Yesterday,
when the Information that the Senate
had pledged Itself to the passage of tho
eight hour measure became general alt
the ticket offices had to put on extra
clerks. Most of the New Kngland trains
and those bound toward the Adlron
(lacks had to run extra sections to ac
commodate tha crowd. Hallroad officials
felt grateful yesterday that the legisla
tion did not lag after Its Introduction.
MRS. HENRY WHITE DIES.
Wife of Former Ambassador Kx
plrea at Lenox, Mass,
LrNOx, Mass., Sept 2. Mrs. Margaret
Sluyvesaut llutherfuid, wife of Henry
White, former L'nlted States Ambas
sador to Italy and France, died this
afternoon at the Poplars, In Lenox,
where they were passing the season.
Mrs. White canto to Lenox for her
health. She was 62 years old and mar
iie.1 Mr. Whlto In Ncr.- Ycr!:. Dccc:r.b-r
3. 18T9. They have two children, tho
Countess Sherr Thoss of Berlin, and
John Campbell White, second secretary
at the American Kmbassy at Petrograd.
Both were In Lenox when their mother
died. Funeral services will be held In
Trinity Episcopal Church In Lenox,
Monday afternoon,
Mrs. White passed much of her mar
ried life abroad, and was particularly
well known In London, where she lived
for a number of years, while Mr. White
was successively Third. Second nnd
First Secretary nt the t'nlted States Em
bassy.. Their home In Whitehall Hardens
was the scene of many brilliant affnlis,
both of a private and official nature, and
where King tieorce while Prince of
Wales wns a guest upon several nr.
raslons. Mrs. White and Mr. W, K.
Vanderbllt, Sr., were slsters-lnl-aw.
2 SAVED ON BLAZING LEDGE.
rtremen llesenp Mother and Hon at
Fourth Mori- Window.
When truck No. 40 swung Into Weit
117th street yesterday responding to an
alarm the crew saw a man and a woman
clinging to the narrow ledge of u win
dow on the fourth Moor of the burning
tenment at No. 141. while a crowd m
the street below was shouting advice.
Hi fore the big truck stopped the exten
sion ladder was up and Fin men Boiler
and Haldaiif were i llmb'.'ig It.
They were part way up when the man
and women were enveloped In smoke and
IUme from the window behind them. I
Two other firemen. Kruger and Walker, I
went to the assistance of the first two. '
and together they took Mrs. Julia Korn,
45 years old, and Nathan Korn, 27, to
the street. Mother and son had been
caught In the apartment, the stairs and
fire escape out off by flames, and how
narrowly they escaped was Indicated by
the fact that their clothing, and that of
the firemen who rescued them, was
scorched.
HOUSE PASSES WEBB BILL.
tnthorlirs F.sportrrs to Combine
to I'ash Fnrrlun Trade.
WasIIINOTON, Sept. :. The Webb
bill, providing that the anti-trust laws
shall not bo construed to prevent the
formation of "selling agencies by Ameri
can exporters to promote the foreign
trade of the l'nlted State, was passed
by the House late to-day by a vote, of
200 to 24, The bill, which had the ap
proval of the Federal Trade Commission
and the Department of Commerce, con
stitutes the last Important measure
scheduled for consideration at this ses
sion. It Is doubtful that the Senate will
take up the Webb bill before December,
Bepresentatlve Webb said It Is es
sential that American exporters shall he
permitted to combine and form selling
agencies If they are to combat foreign
competitors at the close of the Kuropean
war. The bill stipulates that such com
binations shall bo solely for export trado
and the bill does not soften existing anti
trust laws so far ns combinations In
domestic trado are concerned.
DEFICIENCY BILL PASSED.
Senate Clears Way for Ilevenue
Illll and Adjournment by Thursday.
Washington, Sept. 2, Tho Senate
to-night passed the general deficiency
appropriation bill, carrying approxi
mately IIS, 000,000, the last of the ig
supply measures, and cleared the way
for passage of the revenue bill early
next week nnd for adjournment of Con
gress on Wednesday or Thursday.
The deficiency bill carries n provision
for payment of salary tn (Jeoige Bublee,
Federal Trade Commissioner, fur his fif
teen months of service before his nom
ination was rojected by the Senate. It
appropriates J3,000,floo for pit) mem to
Nicaragua of Ihe money authorized In
the canal treaty and contains various
deficiency Items for the army and navy
and 1100,000 for tho Farm Utun Board.
Nerr York Flsthter Killed.
Special I'tMt iMxirA fo Tut: Sin.
Paris, Sept, 2. A letter from the
Foreign Ix-glon of the French at my an
nounces the death of Christopher Charles
of Brooklyn, a member of the legion. i
A bursting shell near Lasslgny hurled
Charles, two Spaniards and one Swlsr
who belonged to tho same machine gun
section. The bodies were dug out and
burled near Chateau Mareull.
SENATE ROLL CALL
ON EIGHT HOUR BILL
; La Foil otto Only Hopublicau
I Who Voted for It Two
Democratic. Nays.
Washin(itov. Sept. 2.
-The Adamson I
bill legalizing an eight
hour day for
! tmlnmpn. Jilt hntltrll fiirnnritnlnsrl In nam
:Mnn"VfoV
I call resulted In 43 votes In favor of the 1
I bill and 2 against It. The following I
was the Note :
YEAS Democrats: Ashurst. Bank-1
I head. Beckham, Bryan, Chamberlain, f
Chilton, Culberson, Fletcher, Hitchcock.:
'Hughes, Hustlng, Johnson (South Da- '
kotu), Kern. Lane. Lea. Lee. Lewis. Mar. '
tin, Myers. NewlamN. Overman, Phelan,
i-iuman, -omerene, iiansdell. Heed, Hob
Inson, Saulsbury. Sheppard. Shields.
Simmons, Smith (Arizona), Smith
.Maryland). Smith (South Carolina),
Swanson, Taggart. Thomas, Thompson,
I'rdcrwood, Vordaman. Walsh and
Williams. Senator La Follette was the
only Bepuhllcan who voted for It 43,
NAYS Democrats: Clarke (Arkan
sas) andll.irdwlck; Hepubllcans: Borah.
Brady, llrandegce, Clapp. Colt. Cum
mins, Curtis, Dillingham, du Pont, Oal
linger. (Ironna, Jones, Ktnyon, McCum
her. McLean. Nelson, Norrls, Oliver,
Page, Penrose, Smith (Mlchliran), Smoot,
Sterling, Wndsworth, Warren and
Weeks 2 1.
The following Senators, all Democrats,
announced they were paired In favor of
the passage of the bill: Owen, Shaf
roth. Smith (Ceorglu) and Stone.
AIL EMBARGOES LIFTED.
Itnllro.d. Take Artlon Afler F.laht
Hoar Bill
Pnsse Nrnate. I
Embargoes that ere Imposed by all
but a few railroads of the nuntry after
the promulgation of the brotherhoods'
strike order last week officially were
lifted Immediately after the p.issage of
the eight hour law lust night.
These embargoes were really suspend
ed throughout the day for the reason
TXX:.U AMde9Pra.;ch om Long Branch. N. J to-night announced
lorre'rerlcl'alirt'TrilghTa; I tJJl "pT T "f ? 'ClCk tITOW
were supposed to be effective were un-1 morning, i ne President expressed great nleasuro whan in
observed and all kinds of good, were formed the Senate had nnuH 4V. m, " .. WI,en ln"
accepted "subject to delay.- At mid- rvr a l"B oenaie naa passed the measure in the form in
rnJi.Tenee" cmbar8 f lmf,or,ance w" whlch ll hnd been enacted by the House. He said the ntnVL
1: action by Congress was very satisfactory to him
DEMANDS $5,000 FOR HIS BATH. ,
Charle Both Pars V. M. C. A. and
Three Others for Ilia I)onalni.
One of the biggest bills ever put In for
a bath came to light yesterday In the
Supreme Court, when Charles Both
brought suit ngalnM the Young Men's
Christian Association, Edward Mc'"or
mack. Daniel Holland anil John B. Hrlt
taln for 15,000.
It wns an Involuntary bath, said Both,
nnd the defendants neglected to put n
bathing suit on him before they doused
him In Lake Osca wanna, where the Y. M.
C A. camp Is held every summer. Just
why Both was seized and ducked, the
court papers do not say, but they record
thot he was assaulted, pushed, pulled,
dragged, catapulted ond projected Into
the colli waters nf Oscawann.i.
He lost a great deal of dignity and ac
quired n store of mortification as result
of this treatment, he said, and the three
men named In the suit went around camp
and told everybody about It, which made
things nil the worse for Both
Having been assigned to o tent In the
camp ny tnc officials, Itotn said mat tne
Y. M. c. A. should have protected him
from "unjustified assault."
AIRSEA FLEET FOR U. S. NAVY.
nids far HO Il ilrnaeroplanrs to lie
Opened Tuesday.
Wasiiiniitiin, Sept. 2. Bids will be
opened Tuesnay nt tne .Navy ueparimeni
for the navy aviation school at I'ensa.
cola, Flu,
All must be delivered within slxty-nlno
days, make a maximum speed of fiO and
v liiu.-n iwi iiuui, 11111 .Mill iiiimru
durance, ns they are designed for school
work only. Specifications for scouting
nnd battle seaplanes are being prepared
and bids will be advertised later.
The performance of the giant seaplane
recently completed at Washington Navy
)nrd. when na a carrv in c.iimc tv of'
1,000 pounds dead weight, will to some j At tho White House there seemed tn
extent deteimlne the characteristics to be . he evidence of a teallzatlon of the liu
reipilred In the fighting and scouting air-' initiation Involved In th haste c.iiiicj
craft. by the threat of a Mrlke,
, The President was at Shadow Lawn,
, , 'It's summer home at Uir.g Branch, N. J.,
SENECAS BAR WHITE HUNTERS, .and the tlr.t Intention was t.. rum the
Indians Invoke Old statute to Clear
Three llrsrrvntlnns.
lllTt'ALo, Sept, 2, Cnder a law which
has been a dead letter for years, the
Seneca Indians, through their tribal I
council, It was learned to-day, have taken
action to exi'liido hunters from tho Cat
taraugus, Allegany and Oil Springs
reservations In Allegany nnd Cattarau
gus counties. The statute cites a penalty
of confiscation of traps, guns and ammu
nition ns well as n heavy fine,
HunterM believe the Indians nro tak
ing this nctlon to retaliate for recent
court decisions holding them subject to
State conservation law regulations.
TWO KILLED BY LIVE WIRE.
Itepalrman and One Who (iocs to
Ills Aid Arc Felled.
Km tinmnn. I.. I.. Spnt. 2 Two men I
wero killed by n live electric light wire'
here to-day. One was a lineman em -
ployed by the Long Island (Ins Cor-1
poratlon and the other a bystander who1
went tn his rescue when he was first
sho-ked. '
The wire broke, nnd Blchard Wells of
flood (Iround, a lineman, arrived from1'
Southampton to repair the break. He
telephoned to have the current cut off.
Supposedly this was done, but It Is be
lieved the wire must have been crossed
with n similar one elsewhere. Wells
started to cull up the wlie but was
hurled In the street John lllonmlng
burgh of this village iiislied out to Wells
end tried to pull him Doth were
thrown down. t j
Upper Body of Congress, "Humili
ated" by Labor Union Heads,
Averts Walkout of 400,000
Men by Vote of 43 to 28.
ALL AMENDMENTS BEATEN
Thousand Messages Flash News of "Set-
tlement" to Brotherhood Locals Bitter
Debate Precedes Roll Call
WASHINGTON. Sept. 2. There will be no railroad
strike. The threatened walkout of 400,000 trainmen has
been called off. Telegrams went out from the four brother
hood leaders to-night to the 640 local chairmen cancelling
the strike order which was to have gone into effect at 7
o'clock Monday morning.
This action was taken after the Senate of tho United
States had fulfilled its part of the bargain by which the Ad
ministration has secured from the four brotherhoods the
promise of temporary peace. The vote was 43 to 28, and tho
roll call, showing how the Senators voted, will be found in
nnother column of The Sun.
The decision of the trainmen's chiefs to persist in having
their strike order stand, even after Congress had nnsscd tha
eight hour law to hold up the
I ' l"
ine oiu was cnangea to-nignt, several hours after the bill
had been passed by the Senate: The reason the labor leaders
decided that they would call off the strike before the Presi
dent's signature had been obtained was that the labor men
realized to-night how bad an impression such an action would
leave on the public mind.
Senate Is Warned
nity und traditions of the Senate fell
upon deaf ears. The threat that a
strike might hang upon tho slightest
chanqt was sufficient to defeat all ef
forts to broaden Its scope or to give the
public unythlng in return for tho con
cessions that wero being made to the
laisir unions.
The bill that stonned the strlkn nm.
vldes that after January' 1. 1917. eight
nours shall lie regarded as a basis of
trimming lor a nay s pay of men en
gaged In the operation of railroad trains
n interstate commerce (except roads '
less than 100 miles long and electilc'
lines), that they shall receive pro rata.
pay for work In excess of eight hour-. .
and that their rate of compensation shall !
not be changed pending un Investigation,
for from six to nine months, of t!. e..
feet of the eight hour day unon the rail.
roac
by
.,
,.inrl, i,.MS,..r i,i,
with the bill back to the .Senate Cham
)rr, lier, ,. w.ls ,,.,.,,' Sen,,l(,;
n,.u.H of X(,w Jene-, acting us I'resi-
rn-.,(iir urn femtmr nf tin. M..not., TI... I..L.
W Ith the heads of the four orgunlza-, contain ait tii.it ...
tions looking down upon it from the I hav " l?
galleries and with tht, warning frum I Hcc and we tnacie tliem We ir .'-mi''"
Administration leuders that tho Sonutc !o by the legislation a- i.isse, !
must not make a single change in the . ' '"tRi-ess." " 1 c" u
llOUSA hill twit Ant n. ! n.... ......... . ' llC VnCttl tf tln.A I. ...ll, ...
- w t.unp, u .. , , ii ni iase to
"f the upper body of the Congress '"'i '. ,1",10"'der. w hlch had already gone
passed the eight hour bill precisely as, "nJ,nZ 177"?' declaring ,,. H,rlkH
It camo from the House. tianeuon . m ,7 ",iJ ' i'1''"-'"1- -'"1 Mr.
Amendment, were, offered In vain. s'Van he seT L" thl '
Appeals for the observation of tho dig- companies, ti... tVc"r.1,1'h
is ny a commission to h anno luted n.i.et..i ...... . . : " """""i was
the President. ' t,Vt... . ' . 1 '"her ini-
Five minutes after the final vote was ,v ' ; w.h."'h "" 'rcl
record'd the bill, which already had bet n mean.ir r, , i n nilsd.-
engrossed and i.r.1,.1 r,..i ...... r . '""r r'" P"son to Interfere w (h
rush programme, was hurried over ,,.,..,. ,i,, t,. """n '" Interstate coin
was hardly dry and the four labor chiefs 1 , ""go 'f the bill when he pointed
were scarcely out of their seats In the oul 1,11,1 ,h" legislation might be con
gallery when the bill was on its way to i ''"'""d ') the courts as repealing wh.v
tho White House. ' ' known ns the Hours of Service ne'
which limits the employment of men In
t'nseemly Hash Is Humiliating. ""' "I'eiatton of Interstate trains to six.
engrossed bill to him by special mes-
senger for his signature, Later the
White House announced, howcer, that
the bill would not be signed by the 1'iesl
dent until he returned to Washington
borne time to-morrow morning
"The enactment nf tills piece of Irg
lslallon to-day," said A. S. larietsun,
head of tho conductors' brotherhood, to
night, "giving as It does an eight houi
day for every man employed In the
operating department of thn railroads
of this country, is a wonderful thing,
"I do not care whether the bill Is
signed on Sunday or home other day, nor
does tho constitutionality of such an act
bother me. If tho President Mes lit to
sign It on that day, I'll be willing to ac
cept his Judgment that the act Is Uua "
W (!. Lee. head of the trainmen, said ;
"Of courbe I am pleased that we han
avoided a strike. Wo did not want a
strike any more than any one else In this
country, but wo had como to a m,iit
where If a Htrlko became necessary to
win our demands we were w tig to go
Into one. I feel confident, too, thn'. we
would n"vo 'merged victorious If a
strlko had been necessary,
Would Aid Itnada' Just Claims.
. . .
'"at situation, nowever, now Is past
1,0 know what the future may
bring as a result of thn eight hour day
legislation. It Is probable, of course,
that the railroads will ask for Increased
freight rates. If they can show thai
they are deserving of them the brothel
hood will help obtain them, but unless
they can show good cause for inlvan.
of course we will not go to thulr asv .
mice,
"The mil as enacted to-day docs not
strike order, in other words,
resitieilC W11S011 ShOUlfJ Sign
Against Amendments.
boodi.
(!arrct.-on.
Kieauy rcm.-t " ...i.t
, "1110 falll.r.. f ..." "
In , . " mo men
There wan Intl. .i..... ,.
iu .. i ; ...... ...Mini ijpro, though
rtacn ., tu. mo , ,
I'agti of any trains. v
rtaeh all the
.tmFlllll, ,.
""eiidlrIlt. ole.t liss.
The f.ate voted down the ,m,Mm .
proposed by .r. C, " f "Th " f
the I. .-. , ,, v 'u" ,7 L " ' hnrlzl'"r
well as t,n rondltl ,.V "npl,,J-,,M
t,ain .. .1..,,. . , 11 ""f on nil
Thn . . ' 1 '""' commerce.
" ". io 11 M.ator Xewlanii... h..,i
'""'ndment
I Kollette threw a bombshell
? ""' -ministration circle Just before
.'ii- lahen lfl fill. K.m
i ii. ii I - in any one day.
"' .enaior rrnin Wisconsin directed
attention to the fact that uhll ii,. .......i
lug bill provided for an eight hour day
as the simulant fur measuring w.igis. it
also iii.nle pnnlslon for overtime without
any limitation ns to the overtime, and
that It might be construed as repealing
the sixteen hour law because It was Incon
slsient with It and a later enactmont,
Senator La Follette made an earnest
ffort to Impress hH point on the Admin
Ntiatlon leaders, but, under the five mill
Ule rule, hr was soon shut off
Senator Brady, Idaho, pointed out sev
ral inconsistencies in the hastily ,-oa
Htruoted liglslatlon and declared theie
was n fault in the provision for otet
time which would permit the railroads to
work men at overtime at a less wage
than that fixed tn the eight hour stand
ard. Vain 4ppenl tn Amend mil,
Hut the Administration leaders were
under niders All appeals to them In
amend the bill were vnlu, Senator Iteed
si rved notice on the Senate Just aftc
4 o'clock, when voting had begun on
amendments, that If a single amendment
wrtv ,iliited the bill could lint Iw passed
and that the strike would certainly en
sue on .Monday,
Mr. Heed made the remarkable state,
men! that he had Just been Informed l
Hepie-entatlve Adamson that the Senate
must pass the bill without the change o'
a single word or the crossing of a "t" or
the dotting of an "I," because members
of the House had begun lealng Wash
, ingtnti as soon as the bill hnd passed
yesterday, and there was ro longer a
quorum In the city, nnd one could not be
obtained In time to nvert the strike '
the legislation were thrown back on the
iower branch of Cnngr'"s by amend
ments
Tills challenge to the right of the s,.
ate t i a mud the bill, coming fiom the
llnuse, was shandy resented by both
Democrats and Hepubllcans. Senator
"eaus or the brother
must mnd 6ta mo... ........ ...
as. ingtim conferences. Krom .i,,,.,.
Uu''' KiV'vM - n"-.r of
he ractlclly ju.uyu messages altoL-th. !,
'3 MIllL'll irilli . . .
