MM
MARKETS
WEATHER
ARIZONA Sunday
and Monday fair, no
change in temperature
VNOZIdV 'XIN30Hd jj
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Aug. 30, 27.10.
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL 19. NO. 85.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 3, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
m mm
IP I
STRIKE CALLED OFF, ME PASSES t HOUR Bib PRESIDENT TO II TODAY
U IN C Emm Uzzr-m MFSSURF Tfl II I
nr innrnTiiinr nnninn : : iiinTflniniin :
H fll.l.rHlDNI.r KKOnln rirstrrsss: l? . K h
ui nuuLi in luL uiin iuu . - muiumuuu :
G. 0. P. NORM. FAILURE
Tor Cunning in Standing Pat
to Resist Change," He Says,
"The Republican Party
Takes the Prize."
HE DEFENDS MEXICAN
POLICY; RAPS ALIENS
Compares Democratic Record
of Legislation with the
G. O. P.. and Wants a
Bigger America.
(By Review Leased Wire)
LONG BRANCH. X. J., Sept. 2.
Fresident Wilson today formal
ly opened his campaign for re
election with a speech accepting
the Democratic nomination in
which he characterized the Repub
lican party as a "practical and
n.'jral failure," defended his Mex
ican and European policies, recit
ed the legislative achievements of
hi3 administration and declared
for a big America. The President
left Shadow Lawn at 11 o'clock
tonight for Washington.
In his speech President Wilson
was unsparing in his criticism of
the Republican party as a party
of "masterly inactivity and cun
ning: resourcefulness in standing
pat to resist change," and said
that the old leaders still select their
candidates, but he did not mention
Charles E. Hughes, the Republican
candidate, by name.
The President spoke from the
veranda of his summer home to a
crowd which filled eight thousand
chairs and overflowed to the lawn.
Speaking in the open, his voice
could be heard by only a small part
of the crowd, but those who did hear
him constantly interrupted with ap
plause. Challenges Aliens.
Once when he said, "I neither seek
the favor nor fear the displeasure of
that small alien element amongst us,
which puts loyalty to any foreign
power before loyalty to the United
States", the crowd stood and cheered.
The notification ceremonies were
brought to a close when more than
a score of American flags attached to
parachutes were tired into the air by
the mortars and unfolded over the
President's head as a band played
"America." Mr. Wilson stood more
than an hour on the veranda and
shook hands with several thousand
men,, women and children.
Cheered Repeatedly.
Senator James, of Kentucky, chair
man of the notification committee, in
troduced the President. When he de
clared that Mr. Wilson had kept Amer
ica at peace, the crowd responded
instantly and applauded several min
utes. He concluded by handing the
President a copy of the St. Louis plat
form. U. S. Record Unequalled.
Reading from a printed copy of his
speech and frequently looking up to
emphasize particular points, Mr. Wil
son spoke of the Democratic platform
as a "Definite pledge". Reviewing
the achievements Vf the administra
tion he said. "Alike in the domestic
fields and in the foreign field of com
merce of the world. American busi
ness life and industry have been set
to move as they never moved before."
Democratic Legislation.
Concluding his list jf measures
passed by Congress in the last three
years, Mr. Wilson said: "This extra
ordinary recital must sound like a
platform, a list of sanguine promises,
but it is not. It is a record of promises
made four years ago and r.'jw actually
redeemed in constructive legislation."
Further along, rebuking foreign
born Americans who are not loyal to
the United States, he said:
"I am the candidate of a party,
but above all things else, I am an
American." When Mr. Wilson de
clared that the rejlution in Mexico
is right and that so long as its leaders
represent, however, imperfectly a
struggle for freedom, he is ready to
serve their ends, the crowd aoplauded.
Applause also greeted his declaration
that America must do its part in lay
ing the foundation for world peace.
Wilson Hears Strike Averted.
When President Wilson was told to
(Continued on pace 6)
p vst - A I i r.niMVirTFn miiitia mill I II I I ,-J
UIIPUCP PRVG UC
MUUIlLU OHIO ML
TOD CHAMPIONS
CHILD LABOR
111
a O. P. Candidate Says Wil
son Hasn't Monopoly on
Remedial Legislation for
Country's Good.
DEFENDED CHILD LABOR
LAW NINE YEARS AGO
Says State of New York En
acted Such Laws Before
the Present Administration
Was Heard Of.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
ST. LOUIS, Sept. 2. Charles E.
Hughes faced an audience in the Coli
seum here today that cheered him for
twenty-one minutes, and in his talk
he referred repeatedly to points made
by President Wilson in his acceptance
speech.
"I protest", Mr. Hughes said,
"against the extravagant claim that
the anti-trust act was clarified by
definition by our opponents. They
folded themselves hp in a vague
phrase and presented that as the so
lution." Mr. Hughes said that "from the
claims of our opponents with respect
to child labor legislation one would
suppose they had discovered chil
dren."
"I am for the protection of chil
dren," he said, "I was for it before
the present administration was heard
of."
I want to read you what a governor
of a state said to a legislator nine
years ago," said the nominee.
"He said in 1907: 'I recommend to
your careful consideration the impor
tant subject of child labor laws for
the protection of children in securing
for them their rights through rn ele
mentary education, and In surround
ing them with appropriate safeguards.
hiaking an especial appeal to human
sentiment and that nothing should be
left undone to g!ve them full effect.
"That, I said in the state of New
York nine years ago."
Mr. Hughes referred to child labor
legislation enacted during his term as
governor of New York.
"I think I know something cf child
labor and the importance of protect
ing it," he said. "The recent bill
passed in Congress affects a very
small number of children in this conn
try. There remains a vast amount
of necessary work to be done by our
ttate' before child labor shall b-. pro
hibited to a regree which will safe
guard this important aspect. I am
for the protection of our children."
CITY ELECTIONS TO BE
HELD IN MEXICO TODAY.
MEXICO CITY, Sept. 2. Municipal
elections will be held throughout the
republic t'jmorrow except in the fed
eral district where the elections have
been postponed until October.
All oil producing companies have
been ordered to register with the
treasury department details as to the
amount of oil produced, exported, re
fined and sold for local consumption,
before September 15. Failure to do
so is punishable by a fine of a thou
sand pesos gold. Non-producers strik
ing oil are required to register within
fifteen days after the oil is struck.
LABOR TO BE PROTECTED
IN NEXT PEACE TREATY.
LONDON, Sept. 2 The federation
of trade unions executive committee
has suggested to rremier Asquith
that he submit Pi the rabinet the de
sirability of discussing with the allied
governments incorporation in the
peace treaties provisions for the
amelioration of labor conditions.
X;
CONVICTED MILITIA
SLACKER ESCAPES.
COLCMIU'S, X. M., Sept. 2
Louis (I. Gardner a member of
H '.initially of the New Mexico
i natiiinal gua.'d, host c:;::t iction
liy court martial for refusing to
1 subscribe to the fell. -sal oatii.
! awaiting approval by the war rle-
partment, escaped from custody
i today while being c'jnveved from
i the stockade to mess, and so
J far has not been apprehended,
j With him escaped L. II. Josey,
. a deserter from the regular army,
j The pair were riding on a cart
I when they jumped and ran.
Gardener's cise excited consider-
able interest recently, as he rais-
ed the question of the rij;:it of
the national government to force
the militia into federal servi.-e.
ysxx
U.MKM
PARLEY OPEHS
Cabrera and Lane, Respective!
Chairman, to Escort Co-'
workers up New England1
Coast for Conference.
(By Review Leased Wire)
HA
NEW YORK, Sept. 3. The first for- Austrian troops withdrew after five j
nial meeting of members of the Mexi-. days of heavy fighting,
can commission and the representa-j i eastern Transylvania the Aus
tives of the United States, appointed . trian retirement continues. Hermann-
by their respective governments to
settle the differences between the two,
'"-
it was learned tonight. .
Secretary of State Lansing, who re
turned to Xew "York tonight, follow
ing the notification ceremonies of
President Wilson, at Shadow Lawn,
Long Branch, X. J., said he would )
probably meet the Mexican envoys to
morrow, but that no arrangements
had been made for the meeting.
The chairmen of the two commis
sions, Franklyn K. Lane, secretary of
the interior, and Luis Cabrera, min-1 ital, have drafted a note to Premier; for every man employed in the oper
ister of finance of the defacto govern- Zaimis. The note probably was hand- ation department of the railroads of
ment. were expected to arrive tomor- j ed the premier on Saturday. The: this country from the Canadian bor
row. According to present plans the , tenor of its contents is not known. I der to the Gulf and from the Atlantic
two commissions will leave on Tues
day morning on the Yacht Mayflower
for some point on the New England
coast, probably Portsmouth, X. H. It
is expected that the real work of the
commissioners will begin Wednesday.
MICHIGAN TRAIN IS
WRECKEDiMANY HURT
Nine Coaches go Over Bank
at Grand Rapids, Broken
Rail the Cause.
(By Review Leased Wire)
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., Sept. 3.
Twenty-five persons were reported in
jured, several seriously, when a
broken rail on the Grand Rapids and
Indiana Railway at Wilkins switch,
near Mancelona, Michigan, caused
nine coaches of the Chicago and Cin
cinnati flyer to go over an embank
ment late tonight.
The place where the wreck occur
red is about fifty miles south of Petos
ky, the heart of a popular resort dis
trict. At a late hour tonight local of
ficials of the road had only meagre
reports which did not contain the
names of any persons hurt not indi
cate whether any had suffered fatal
injuries.
LOS ANGELES MAYOR
THROWSUP HIS JOS
Sebastian Resigns Under Fire
and Sues the Papers
for Libel.
,By Review Leased Wire)
LOS ANGELES. Sept. 2. Los An
geles was without a mayor tonight
and probably will he tint'l Tuesday,
when it is expected the city council
will elect a successor to Charles E.
Sebastian, who resigned toady as
signing ill health as the reason. His
resignation followed newspaper at
tacks which resulted in the mayor fil
ing charges of criminal libed against
two persons.
II 5 DAY
BATTLE
Austrians Are Driven Across
Cerna River, Where Bitter-'
Continuing.
HERMANSTADT
IS EVACUATED
i Teutonic Forces Shorten Lines
m 1 ransylvama Greece
Still Wa verJrsr on trie Verv
Brink of W ar.
(By Review Leased Wire)
LONDON, Sept. 2 In the first hard j
battle between Rumania and Austrian
; troops the Austrians have been forced
; to retire across the Cerna River, north
of Orsova, near the Iron Gate on the
Danube. Vienna announces that the
! 8ta(1t has been evacuated. Apparently!
the Austrians are carrying out their.
reporiea pian 01 snonemng me Dai-
iti.iin.i, TiMi.
Loudon announces another Zeppelin i
raid pver the eastern coast of Eng
land on Saturday nip.ht. Few details '
have lK-en received. Bombs were, WASHINGTON. Se;t. 2. "The en
dropped on several places. j actment of this piece of legislation to
Creece Coming In. ; :ay," said A. B. Garretson, head of
The Entente ministers at Athens, , the conductors' brotherhood, tonight,
say3 a dispatch from the Greek cap--"giving as it does an eight hour day
The arrival of an allied fleet on" , to the Pacific, is a wonderful thing.
Pireaus, the port or Athens has been I it nol ony affects the brotherhoods
followed by the announcement that , and the best paid men who come un
the flag of France has been hoisted j der tlleir jurisdiction, but it reaches
on four German and three Austrian ! far enough down the line to give the
merchant ships in the harbor. Board-1 nej;rt) railroad workers of the South
ing parties from the Entente warships ; h,g chance for hIs white al)y.
seizea ine vessels.
Revolt Spreads. !
Xo official announcement of politi-!
cal conditions has come either from
the Greek government or the Entente'
capitals. The Revolt reported in
Macedonia is now said to have spread
over the whole of northern Greece.
Dispatches from Athens say that
Premier Zaimis had a lengthy aud'-l
ence with King Constantine Thursday! "0r cour8p 1 am P,ea8e1 that we
and afterward announced that Greece have averted' a strike. We did not
retained her policy of friendly neu-,wnt 8trike nv n,ore than an' one
trality toward the entente. The oIse in the country, but we had reach
Greek premier, another dispatch : pd Voint where if a strike became
says, declared that political questions i necessary to win our demands, we
would be cleared up probably by Sun-! were willing to go into one. I feel
day morning. j confident, too, that we would have
Against strong Austrian resistance Emerged victorious if a strike had
Petrograd says the Russians have been necessary.
taken positions forty miles east of, "That situation, however, is pass
Lemberg. Near the Hungarian fron- j ed. I do not know what the future
tier several heights have been cap-, may bring as a result of the eight
tured. ' (Continued on page 7)
SETTLEMENTOF BIG STRIKE
(By Review Leased Wiro.)
CHICAGO, Sept. 2. From Chicago j Informed by the Associated Press
tonight went telegrams to every di- that the senate had passed the bill,
vision point on western railroads in- Hale Holden. president of the Chicago
font. ing both railway officials and j Burlington and Quincy, said the rail
trainmen that the strike is off. A ; ways would not discommode the pub
ceneral sense of relief was expressed j lie by any precipitate action,
hv minor officials President E. P. I "It is my belief." he said, "that we
Ripley, of the Atchison. Topeka and 'will wait for the government investi
Santa Fe railroad, said, however, that ! gation provided by the bill before tak-
he was sorry the question had not
co"ie to a critical test.
"I am sorry it has been called
off." Mr. Ripley said. "The Adamson
bill doesn't become effective until
January 1. Between now and then we
can decide what to do." Mr. Ripley
was naked if his railroad planned an I
immediate test of the law In the court, j
"I can't say just when we will do j
anything." he replied, "but the law j
surely will be tested." I
Only two Democratic senators,
IIardw!:'k. of Georgia, and Clnrke,
or Arkansas, voted against the
will and one Republican, Lal'jl
ette, of Wisconsin, voted for it.
The roll call follows:
For the bill: Democrats Ash-
urst, IJankhead. Rreckhum liryan.
, Chamberlain. Chilton, Culberson,
' Fletcher, Hitchcock, Hughes.
I Puhling. John 'jn (S. D.), Kern,
' Lane, Lee (Tenn ). Lee (.Id.),
! Lewis, .Martin. Myers, Xewlands,
Overman, 1 helan, Pittiaan, Pom
, erene, Kansdell. Reed, Robinson,
'. Sau'sbery, Sherhard, Shield,
: Simons, S;:iith (Ariz.). S:i:ith
j (Md ), S.nith (S. C), Swaiibon,
Taggart, Thomas. Thompson, L'n
' derwood, Yanlaiiian, Walsh and
Williams 2.
Republicans Lalolette. Total 43.
Against : Republicans I loruh.
i Brady. Brandege, ( Vlt, Cummins.
Curtis. Dillingham. Dr.pont, Gal
. linger, Gronna. Jones, Kenyon,
MeCuiuber, McLean. Nelson, Nor
' ria. Oliver, Penrose, Sherman,
j Smith (Mich.). Smoot. Sterling,
I Wadsworth, Warren and W'eews
26'
! Hardwick.
BILL WITH
"Wonderful Thing Congress
1 1 . C r" i
I llas Uone ays Garrets on
I Many aay len Hour Day
Now Thing of the Past
(By Review Leased Wire.)
"I do not care whether the bill is
signed on Sunday or some other day.
Nor does the constitutionality of such
an act bother me. If the President
sees fit to sign it on that day, I'll be
willing to accept his judgement that
the act is legal."
W. G. Lee, head of the trainmen,
. : .
Ing any action acainst it.
"The cost to the railroads of the
threatened strike has alreadv run
very high. We have been under ex
traordinary expense. The loss to the
public cannot be estimated at this
time, but shippers and travelers have
suffered Inconveniences and monetary
loss. I understand that the western
parks have been practically deserted
on account of the threatened strike,
many have shut completely down.
Clarke (Ark ), and j
Total 28. "!
TDM MM CM U A ll i
M 1 Ul n Ll
mm
18 OF
TRAINMEN OF VICTORY
Senate Passes Adamson Bill Unamended After Spirited De
bate, Democrats For and Republicans Against Measure,
Final Vote Being 43 to 28 President Wilson Happy, Will
Sign Bill at 7:30 O'CIock This Morning.
G. O. P. SENATORS CHARGE CONGRESS
IS BEING COERCED INTO UNLAWFUL ACTION
Only Two Democrats Oppose Measure, While Lafolette Is
Only Republican Voting for It Bill Makes 8 Hour Day
! Effective January 1, with Commission to Observe Its
Results Many Think Bill Unconstitutional.
(By Review Leased Wire.)
WASHIXGTON. Sept. 2 The threatened railroad strike, which has
been hanging like a pall over the country for a month, was lifted tonight.
Three hours after the Senate had passed without amendment the Adamson
8 hour day bill, passed by the House yesterday, the heads of the four
great railroad brotherhoods telegraphed the order in code messaees to their
general chairmen in all parts of the country, cancelling the strike order
issued a week ago to take effect next Monday morning at 7 o'clock.
The vote on the bill was 43 to 2S, two Democrats voting egainst it and
one Republican for it.
To Sign It Today
LONG BRANCH. N. J.. Sept. 2. Announcement was made here tonight
that President Wilson would sign the eight hour bill passed by Congress
at 7:30 o"clock tomorrow morning.
Voted By Party
WASHIXGTON, Sept. 2. The legis
lation expedient to avert the strike
was passed in the Senate today by
almost a strict party vote, amid stir
ring scenes after many senators, Dem
ocrats and Republicans, had fought
desperately to amend the measure by
provisions designed to prevent indus- i i"i '
trial legislation. Some senators, j 'T ? 7 t hU'
thoroughly aroused, declared congress f' hoUl!h U is "'y a " o1 ,he
,.. . . . . . . lative program he took to-congress
was being coerced into enactment of' , ' . .. .
, . , ,. . ... . . . . , last Tuesday when his negotiations
legislation that it did not desire and ......
. !, i , j . had failed,
that it knew would return to plague , , ... , . .
it in the future. IM""nc' "f th orders of "V""
...... ... cellation followed a meeting of the
In both houses the measure was!, .
. . , .... 'four brotherhoods heads and 13 re
signed within a few minutes after , . . ...
. , . 0 ,, . : mainmg members of their committee
the final vote in the Senate, and it . . -
. A . .. ...... i of 640. Some opposition to action un-
was sent at once to the A hue House ' ., ,,:....
. r- u -i -M i1'1 thp President actually had affixed
where President Wilson will sian it I . , .....
. - ,n . , .. this signature was evidenced In the
at 7:30 tomorrow morning nrter his .
. . . meeting but in the end the 17 voted
return from Shadow Lawn. ! , , .
I unanimously to call off the strike
Call Off Strike Immediately. All fie code messaees
Officials of the brotherhoods who had been prepared in ajvance and as
witnessed the final passage of the bill ! quickly as the decision was reached.
had announced early in the night that j clerks rushed to the telegraph offices
cancellation of the strike would not i with prmloads of the messages.
be ordered until the President had I Xo two of the more thn 600 dis-
signed the bill, but later they con-j patches were alike. One of them read
ferred. changed their minds, and j "It is reported that a big fire is
flashed the code messages signalling j raging in Toronto."
to the waiting trainmen over the J Another said: "There is danger of
country through thrir chairmen the j yon- bonse burning down tomorrow."
message that a satisfactory settle-
ment had been secured.
Contents Of Bill
The bill that stopped the strike
n-,,- i ,? .iu Vi o .fta. T n 1 til"
..
eigni nours snail oe regaraea as a
basis of reckoning for a day's pay of
men engaged in the operation of rail
road trains in interstate commerce
(excepting roads less than M0 miles
long and electric lines): that they
shall receive pro rata pay for work
in excess of the eight hours and the
rate of compensation shall not be
changed pending an investigation
for six to nine months after effect of
the eight hour day on the railroads
by a commission to be appointed by
the President.
Amendment Beaten
Efforts to amend the bill in the Sen
ate were futile, the supreme effort
to alter it having been led by Sena
tor I'nderwood. who sought to pro
vide that the interstate commerce
commission should have power to fix
rates of wages and hours of service
'n the future. This amendment was
defeated by a vote of 57 to 24.
Only 2 Democratic senators. Hard
wick of Georgia, and Clarke of Arkan
sas, voted against the bill and one
Republican. Lafollotte of Wisconsin,
voted for it.
Costs R. R. Millions
Railroad officials have declared that
the action of Congress will cost them
60.000,000 a year in increased wages
to the trainmen. Brotherhood offi
cials say the enactment will mean
not more than $20,000,000. In con
eress and among the railroad officials
there has existed doubt as to the con
stitutionality of the law. but what
steps may be taken, if any, to test
III JELL
this has not been indicated.
Men Trust Wilson
Quick action by the brotherhood
heads followed the action in the Sen
ate. Xo doubt existed in their minds
that President Wilson would s.'gn the
bill as soon as it was handed to him.
The measure embraces virtually all
i K !.-.,..;, 1 . l 1 . . -
j Even the brotherhood heads did not
know what all the messages con
tained, the composition of them hav
in! feen left to clerks.
The orieinal plan to wait until the
'
preSMent had signed the bill before
callinsr off the strike was abandoned
in order to facilitate transmission of
the niessarps. It was thouet if the
orders were not sent out until tomor-
i row nv "i-nnll telecraph offices
nrthihl wniM h c'osed. and the 10.
000 or more local chairmen all of
whom in trn are to receive messaees
j from the !4o eenenl rba'nien. miht
not be advised. The argument a'so
was advanced that newsmner publi
city tomorrow throuehout te countrv
would be of ereat assistance in eet
tine the word to the emploves who
would bp affected bv the strike.
The four brotherhood heads were
invited toritht to b nrsent tomor
row when President Wilson signs the
bill.
WASHINGTON', Sept. 2 Wit.h his
fight for the S hour bill won. A. B.
Garretson. who has acted as leader
for all the brotherhood men. tonight
planned an unique vacation.
"I have just figured out a plan."
he said, "by which I can rest in peace
without seeing a single man who
knows me or receiveing any message.
I am going to find a sturdy square
rigeer. not equipped with wireless,
and sail just as long as possible
without touching land. It is going to
mean a lot to me. For almost a
nuarter of a century it has been im
poss!ble for me to board a train
without meeting someone who wanted
to talk shop."
When Mr. Garretson accepted the
(Continued on Page Seven)
