THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWKNTY-SEVENTH YEAH
.?V PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 3, 1916
18 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 108
KE MEN
ACE VA1SMES
Rumanians Force Austrians to
IN FIRST HARD
AUSTRIANS FORGED
GERNA MIDI AFTER
(By Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
In the first hard battle between Rumanian and Austrian troops, the Aus
trians have been forced to retire across the Cerna river, north of Orsova,
near the Iron Gate on the Danube. Vienna announces that the Austrian troops
withdrew after five days' of heavy fighting.
In eastern Transylvania the Austrian retirement continues. Hermann
atadt has been evacuated. Apparently the Austrians are carrying out their
reported plan of shortening the battle line in Transylvania.
London announces another Zeppelin raid over the east coast of England
on Saturday night. Pew details have been received. Bombs were dropped on
several places.
The entente ministers at Athens, says a belated dispatch from the Greek
capital, have drafted a note for presentation to Premier Zaimis. The note
nrobably was handed to the Greek premier on Saturday. The tenor of its con
tents is not known.
The arrival of an allied fleet off Piraeus, the port of Athens, has been fol
lowed by the announcement that the flag of France has been hoisted on four
German and three Austrian merchant shops in the harbor. Boarding parties
from the entente warships seized the vessels.
No official announcement of political conditions has come either from the
Greek government or the entente capi-tals. . The revolt reported in Maced
onia, is now said to have spread over the whole of northern Greece.
Dispatches from Athens say that Premier Zaimis had a lengthy audience
with King Constantine Thursday and afterward announced that Greece main
tained her policy of friendly neutrality toward the entente. The Greek pre
mier, another dispatch says, declared that political questions would be cleared
up before Saturday morning.
Against strong Austrian resistance Petrograd says the Russians have
taken positions forty miles east of Lemberg. Near the Hungarian frontier sev
eral heights have been captured.
Attacks by the Russians against the Austro-German lines in Volhynia,
Galicia, and the Carpathians were repulsed, Berlin says. Some ground was
gained north of Thorow, Galicia, and nearly 1,500 prisoners have been taken
by the armies of Prince Leopold and Archduke Charles.
Operations on other fronts show little activity.
Zeppelins Raid England
LONDON, Sept. 2 One of a squad
Ton of German Zeppelins which raided
Knglnnd tonicht with London and the
astern counties apparently as their
objective was brought down in flames
an official announcement says. Many
bombs were dropped but no reports or
castnlties have been received.
The statement snvs:
"The attack tonight was made bv
a larger number of airships than ever
previously raided England. The east
ern counties of London apparently
were the objective. The attack on
London was beaten off and one raider
was brought down in flames. Many
immt.s were dropped in widely separ
ated localities but no reports of
casualties or damege have been se
re ived."
It is understood the Zeppelin was
over London district when it was j
struck and descended in flames in
the open country. The explosion was
visible a great distance. Crowds
everywhere cheered when they saw the
hurst of flames in the. sky.
Another raid, en the east coast of
England was made last night. An
official statement savs:
"Shortly before 11 o'clock in the
evening our eastern coast were at
tacked by several hostile airships.
Flomhs already have been dropped on
n few nlaces. No details have been
received as regards the number of
raiders or their objective. The raid is
still progressing. ''
The entente ministers at Athens
have drafted a note for presentation
to premier Zaimis, says a Reuter dis
patch from Athens under date of
Kiidav. The note was lo he presented
Friday or Saturday. The entente
ministers assured the Greeik premier
that the navay demonstration and
other measures were not directed
against Greece.
Sailors from the Anglo-Frejneh
warships have seibed the wireless
nparatus at the Greek arsenal, says
the ditpatch. King Constantine is
reported to be still ill
rhe federation of trade unions
executives committee has sueeested
to Premier Asquith that he submit
to the cabinet the desirability of dis
russlnir the allied government incor
poration in the peace treaties pro-
virions for the amelioration of labor
condtions.
Rumanian Aattacks Succeed
VIENNA, Sept. 2. tvia London).
Rumanian attacks on the Austrians in
the important sea port around Orsova
have been successful. The Austrian
official statement issued today an
nounced that after a few days of
heavy fighting In this region. Aus-1 .released to the Cleveland team today,
trian troops were withdrawn to theiHe will Join the Indians here tomor
wet bank of the Cerna river. 'row. i'4J
CONGRESS PASSES DEFICIENT
BILL CARRIE H OUT S15.flDfl.000
Republican A. P. Leased Wirt
WASHINGTON. Sept. 2. Tonight
the senate passed the general defic
l A iencv oppropriation bill carrying ap-
- , proximately $1S,000,000, the last of the
big measure.-, and cleared the way for
the assage of the revenue bill early
next week, and fo radjournment of
congress Wednesday or Thursday.
t The bill carries provision for nay
ment of salary to George Rublee fed
eral trade commissioner for his fifteen
month's service before his nomination
was rejected by the senate. It ap
propriated $:!,0fl0,000 for payment to
Nicaragua of the money authorized
in the canul treaty and contains vari
ous deficiency for the armv and navy,
and $110,000 for the farm loan board.
The Webb bill to promote export
trade by establishing the complete
legality of co-operative associations
formed for export trade solely was
pnsied by the house today 199 to 2f.
. All efforts to amend it failed. It is
f 11 designed to enable American firms
. to compete with government aided
combinations and associations of
foreign exporters. . -
BOTTLE TI
ACROSS
FI1E DAYS
Artillery Active
PARIS Scot 1. Artillerv was nc-!
tive north ar.u' south of the Somme, ! right;, through an elementary educa
says tonight's war office statement, i tion and in surrounding them with ap-
F.lsewhere therei were on events of
imuortance. i
Dispatch to the Petit Parisien, from
Sa:oiukt, dated Friday, says that 1
committee of national defense com-:
posei! of Lieutenant Colonel Zim-1
brakakis and other prominent mili- j
tirv men and civilians have leen
proclaimed as the provisional eov-
eminent of Macedonia. j
Ai Alliens tMspateh to the Wirelatss
Press says the newspapers of that
city published a manifesto by Gen- '
eral Papatsistis appealing to the '
Greeks to enroll as volunteers in an 1
army which will protect Greece from
its enemies. j
The Bulgarians returned to tiie at-
tai-k last night on the western end of
the Macedonian front. The war of- i
fice announced today that a:i assault
delivered by them in Vetrinik sector
was repulsed by the Serbians.
After repeated and violent attacks
last night, the Germans reoccupied
part of the trenches recently taken by
the Frnch on the Somme front south
nf Estres.
In the Champagne, Russian troops
put to flight a German contingent
northwest of Aubreve, after a spirited
engagement.
Austrian Attack Repulsed
ROME, Sept. 2. Violent artillery
fighting occurred yesterday on the
Trentino front. An Austrian attavk
in the Suganana valley was repulsed
Rumanians Are Repulsed
BERLIN', Sept 2 (Bv wirele-s to
Sayville) Austro-Hungarian troops
on the Rumanian front again repulsed
the Rumanians near Orzova ana Her
cules Fueride on August 3t.
o
BELIEVE FAY IN CUSTODY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CORIXTH, Miss.. Sept. 2. Off icials
; here tonight were awaiting replies to
i messages sent to New York and At-
' !anta relative to a man detained here
who, ft is said, answers the descrip
tion of Robert Fay. self-styled Ger
man armv officer who recently es
caped from the federal prison at At
J 'an'n while serving a sentence for '
violation of neutrality laws. Accord-
int to the sheriff the man has de-
clined to make any statement
o '
GAV1NAGHN IS RELEASED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DETROIT, Sept. 2. Martv Gav-
inaghn, utility infielder of the Detroit
American League baseball club, wan
The measure, which passed tte
house is the last except the revenue
bill remaining before congress in the
executive program.
Twenty -Five Injured When
Broken Rail W reeks Train
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., Sept.
injured, several seriously when
Irdiana railroad at Wilkins switch, near Mancelona Michigan, caused nine
coaches of the Chicago and Cincinnati flyer to go over an embankment
late toniqht.
Automobiles have been requisitioned to bring the injured to Kalkaska
anH Mancelona.
The place where the wreck occurred Is about fifty miles south of
.ee .v' tn' beart of a popular resort district. At a late hour tonight local
oTTiciais ox ine roaa nad only meagre reports which
names of any persons hurst nor
injuries.
WILSON
REALLY
CRIED LABOR
LEGISLATION IS
NOT HIS 01
fRepubliran A. P. Leased Wire
ST. LOUIS, Sept. 2. Charles E.
Hughes faced an audience in the Coli
seum here tonight that chered him
twenty-one minutes, and in his talk he
referred repeatedly to points made by
j President Wilson in his acceptance
j speech.
I "I protest," Mr. Hughes said, "against
the extravagant claim that the anti-
trust act was clarified by definition by
! our opponents. They folded themselves
' up in a vague phrase and presented
I that as their solution."
Mr. Hughes said that "from the
j claims of our opponents with respect
i to child labor legislation, you would
sunoose thev had discovered children.
"I am for the protection of children,"
h; said. "1 was for It belore tne pres
ent administration was heard of."
"1 want to read you what a governor
of a slate said to a legislator nine years
I ago." said the nominee. He said in
I lure 1 recommend to vour careful con
! sideration the important subject of
child labor laws, for the protection of
children in securing for them their
propriate safeguards, patting an espe-
cial anneal to human sympathy and
that nothing should be left undone to
give them tull effect.
"That 1 said in ilie state of New
York nine years ago."
Mr. Hughes referred to child labor
legislation enacted during his term as
governor of New iork:
"I think 1 know something of child
labor and the importance of protecting
it." he said. "The recent bill passed in
congress affects a very small number of
children in this country. There remains
a vast amount of necessary work to
be done by our states before child labor
shall be prohibited to a degree which
will safeguard this important aspect. 1
am for the protection of our children."
The nominee declared that the busi
ness man had a right to know what he
could and could not do.
"Here again we are met with extra
ordinary claims," he said. "I suppose
allusion is made to the federal trades
commission law. I have no uarrel
with the composition of the trade com
mission law. but I can not accept the
crude statement of suggestion that the
anti-trust has been clarified by defini
tion. "It is said in the federal trade com
mission act that the unfair methods of
competition in commerce are hereby
declared unlawful.
"Now what are unfair methods of
competition? Naturally a man in the
street would think about fraud. Fraud
has been recognized by the common law
since its institution.
"No, they are not thinking of fraud,
unfair competition had a different
meaning than the fraud under the law.
It is a time honored phrase.. We know
what it means. In a very simple way
of statement it may be said to have re
lation to methods by which one man's
goods are palmed off as the goods of
another man, through deceptive state
ments in advertising and the like.
"Those things are described in the
law as unfair competition. Was this
law passed to reach them? Of course
not. Talk about clarifying the anti
trust act by definition. Why there is
not a business man in the country who
knows what that act means or what
he should do or not do, under it.
Mr. Hughes asasiled the administra
tion'g Mexican policy on the ground
j that the profession of dealing with
' smaller nations in the same manner
i as with larger nations, "is a profession
belied by practice."
I It has not been made good, it ought
t to be made good, he said.
"we said to Muerta, not simpiy mai
he would not be recognized but that he
should not even be a candidate for the
Mexican presidency. Is that the way
(Continued on Page Nine)
n
T LOS ANGELES TEMPORARILY
I
I
I
WITHOUT AN EXECUTIVE
LOS ANGELES, Sept. 2. Los I
Angeles wa3 without a mayor to- I
I bight and probably will be until I
I Tuesday, when, it is expected the I
I city council will elect a successor I
I lo Charles K. Sebastian who re- I
I signed today, assigning ill health
1 as the reason. His resignation fol- j
I lowed newsaper attacks which re- j
I suited in the mayor filling charges
I of criminal libel against two per- I
I sons. I
2. Twentv-five persons were reported
hrnkon roil nn th ftrand Ranids and
riiH net contain the
indicated whether anv had suffered fatal
jKts'443 lfcsIUVxEiitsi istJot
Retire Across River
NODS
BROTHERHOOD HEADS
PLEASED AT OUTCOME
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', Sept. 2. "The en
actment of this piece of legislation
today, said A. B. tiarretson, head of
the conductors' brotherhood tonight.
giving as it does an eigh-hour day
for every man employed in the oper
ating department of the railroads of
this country from the Canadian bor
der to the gulf and from the Atlantic
to the Pacific, is a wonderful thing.
It not only affects the brotherhoods
and the best paid men who come un
der their jurisdiction but it reaches
tar enough down the line to give tne
negro lailroad worker of the south his
ha ue with his white ally.
T do noi rare whether the bill is
si;n-d en Sunday or sonic other day.
Nor ci.es the constitutionality of such
act rother me. If the president
sees fit to ,-ign it on that day, I'll b"
willing lo accept his judgment that
th. act is legal."
W. G I.ee. head of the trainmen,
said:
"Of course I am pleashed that we
lave averted a strike. we did not
want u strike any more than anv one
els-, in this country, but we had
reached a point where if a strike be-
aine necessary to win our demands
v.e wire willing to go into one.
FULL TEXT
Hi BILL
AS IT PASSED
Republican A. P. Leases Wire
WASHINGTON, Sept. 2. The text of
the eight-hour Adamson bill as it was
sent to the president for his signature
follows:
"Ue it enacted by the senate and
house of representatives of the United
States of America in congress assem
bled, that beginning January 1. 1917.
eight hours shall, in contracts for labor
and service, be deemed a day's work
and the measure or standard of a day's I
work for the purpose of reckoning the
compensation for services of all em-
ployes who are now or may hereafter
be employed by any common carrier
by railroad, except railroads moepena-
ently owned and operated not exceed-
ins K0 miles in length, electric street
railroads, nnu electric lmeruroan ran-
roads, which is subject to the provi-
sions or ;h act of February 4, ISSi, anything" he replied, "but the law
entitl.-d an act to regulate commerce,' surely will be tested."
as amended, and who are now or may Informed by the Associated Press
hereafter be actually engaged in any that the senate had passed the bill,
capacity in the operation of trains Hale Holden, president of the Chicago,
used for the transportation of persons Burlington & Quincy, declared the rail
or property on railroads, except rail- ways would not discommode the pub
roads independently owned and oper- He by any precipitate action,
ated not exceeding 100 miles in length. ' "it is my belief," he said, "that we
electric street railroads and electric will wait for the government investiga
interurban railroads, from any state or tion provided by the bill before taking
territory of the United States or the any action against it.
District of Columbia to any other state "The cost to the railroads of the
or territory of the 1" tinea States or the , threatened strike has already run very
District or Columbia, or irom one place : high. We have been under extraordin
in a territory to another place in the ary expense. The loss to the public can
same territory or from any place in the
Lnitea states to an adjacent ioreign
eountry or from any place in the United
btates through a foreign country to any
place in the United States:
shall not apply to railroads less than
100 miles in length whose principal
business is leasing or furnishing termi
nal or transfer facilities to other rail
roads or are themselves engaged in
transfers of freight between railroads
or between railroads and industrial
plants.
Section 2 That tne president shall
appoint a commission or tnree, which
shall observe the operation and errects
of the institution of the eight-hour
(Continued on Page Nine)
o
Say Rebels Have
Taken Mazatland
and Culiacan
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., Sept. i. Reports
tending to confirm the recent rumor
of the taking of Mazatlan, the largest
city of Sinaloa bv rebel forces, al
ready received here today from the
interior of Sonora by Americans. It
Is reported, in Hermosillo and Guay
mas that a force under General Cur
rasco, formerly a Carranza comman
der in the southern part of Mexico,
entered Mazatlan late last week at
the head of a body of troops, and the
garrison, niimberin? 150 men, was
turned over to him without a fight.
Culiacan, the capital of Sinaloa is
also reported to have turned over to
Carrasco without a struggle," because
of dissatisfaction with the Carranza
government.
General Angel Flores, military gov
ernor of the state was not Implicated
In the movement as It was first re
ported. He with a majority of his
men, was on the Chihuahua border at
the time, on the lookout for villistas
The same reports say thnt revolu
tionary disorders against the Carran
za government have increased in the
I territory of Tepic, while there is open
revolt in Jalisco. Durango and Oaxaca.
COVERER
feel confident, too. that we would
have emerged victorious if a strike
had been necessary.
"That situation, however, is pissed,
I do not know what the future may
bring as a result of the eight-hour
day . legislation. It is probable of
course that the railroads will ask for
increased freight rates. If they can
show that they are deserving of them,
the brotherhoods will help get them.
"The bill as enacted today does not
contain all that we should have liked
to have. We were willing, however,
to make sacrifices and we made them.
V" are willing to abide bv tne legis
lation passed by congress."
W. S. Carter and W. S. Stone, heads
of the firemen smd engineers said
they were pleased with the outcome
of the negotiations.
All of the brotherhood leaders were
im lined to regard lightly reports that
the railroads would make a determ
ined fight, on the constitutionality of
the eight-hour day. They feel that
th ten-hour ila.v is a thing of th
past now, regardless of how the courts
mav interpret the Adamson lull, lne
practical operation of the eight-hour
dav. thev declare, will convince tn
public r.nd the railroads that it was a
sten in the right direction.
mm iq nrc
U I IIIIVL IJ
Ul I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Sept. 2. From Chicago
tonight when telegrams to every divi
sion point on western railroads inform
ing both railway officials and train
men that the strike was off, a general
attitude ot relief was expressed by
minor railway officials. President L
P. Ripley of the Atchison, Topeka &
Sunta Fe railway said, however, that
he was sorry the question had not come
to a critical test
"I am sorry it had been called off,"
j Mr. Kipley said. "The Adamson bill
i does nut become effective until Janu
i ary i. Between now and then, we can
decide what to do,
jjr. Ripley was asked if his railroad
! planned an immediate test of the law
i in the courts.
"i can't say just when we will do
, not be estimated at this time, but ship-
i ners and travelers have suffered m-
convenience and monetary losses. I
, understand that the western parks have
j been practically deserted as a result of
the strike threat and that many re
sort hotels have closed down."
Charles H. Markham, president of the
Illinois Central, said tonight be expects
'Continued on Page Nine)
Bill
HEADS
RELIEVED WHEN
FIRST MEETING OF COMMISSION
WILL BE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 2. The first
formal meeting of members of the
Mexican eommisi-ion and the repre
sentatives of the United Slates, ap
pointed by their respective govern
ments to settle the differences be
tween the two countris, will be hejd
here Monday, it was learned tonight.
Secretary of State Lansing who re
urned to New York tonight follow
ing ttie notification ceremonies or
President Wilson at bhadow Lawn,
Long Branch. N. J., said he would
nrohably meet the Mexican envoys
tomorrow, but that no arrangements
had been made for the meeting.
The chairman of the two commis
sions. Franklin K. lane. secretary or
the interior and Luis Cabrera minister
of finance of the de facto govem
mejit, were expected to arrive tomor
row. According to present plans the
two commissions will leave on Tues
day morninn- on the yacht Mayflower
for some point on the New England
coast, probahlv Portsmouth. It is ex
pec ted that the real work of the com
missioners will begin W ednesday.
Conditions Are Commended
WASHINGTON, Sept. 2. In a ver
bal report dealing with various fea
tures of the border troop camps, con
clitions of the soldiers and sanitation
works, make to Secretary Baker today.
D. Thomas Darlington, an epepert sent
by the civic federation to investigate
ADISON BILL HITS ONEY
S SHORE:
T
(Republican A-
WASHINGTON, SEPt.
railroad strike which has been hanging like a pall over
the country for a month vas
Three hours after the
amendment, the Adamson eight hour day bill, passed bv
the house yesterday, the heads of the four great railroad
employes' brotherhoods telegraphed six hundred odd
code messages to their general chairmen m all parts ot
the country cancelling the strike order issued a 'week ago
to take effect next Monday morning at 7 o clock.
I he legislative expedient
passed in the senate by a vote
party vote amid stirring
democrats and republicans, had fought desperately to
amend the measure by provisions designed to prevent
industrial disasters in the future. Some senators, thor
oughly aroused, declared congress was being coerced into
enactment of legislation that it did not desire and that it
knew would return to plague
In both houses, the measure was signed within a few
minutes after the final vote in the senate and it was sent
at once to the White House where President Wilson will
sign it at 7:30 o'clock tomorrow morning after his return
from Shadow Lawn. Officials of the brotherhoods who
witnessed the final passage of the bill had announced early
in the night that cancellation of the strike would not be
ordered until the bill had been signed by the president
and actually had become law. But later they conferred,
changed their minds, and flashed the code messages sig
nalling to the waiting trainmen of the country through
their chairmen the message that a satisfactory settlement
had been secured.
Garreston Plans
Vacation Aboard
"Square Rigger"
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Sept. 2 With his
fight for the 8-hour day won, A. B.
Garretson. who has acted as leader
for all th brotherhoods men, tonight
planned an unique vacation.
"I have just figured out a plan," he
said "by which I can rest in peace
without seeing a single man who
knows me or receiving any message.
1 am going to find a sturdy square
tiggar, not equipped with wireless, and
sail just as long as possible without
touching land.
"It is going to mean a lot to me.
For almost a quarter of a century
it has been impossible for me to
bond a train without meeting some
one who wanted to talk shop."
When Mr. Garretson aeceptejd the
presidency ot the Order of Railway
Condutcois at their last annual meet
ing he did so with the understanding
that he should take a year's vacation
at thei end of tne fight just closed.
He rose from a sick bed to take part
in the present negotiations.
o
DOESN'T STOP WEDDING
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 2. Professor
Charles Rose Dines of Dartmouth col
lege, who was sued for breach of
promise yesterday by Miss Edna May
Grove of Omaha, was married this
evening to Miss Charlotte Everett of
Chicago. His bride said she refused
to let a breach of promise suit inter
fere with her happiness.
HELD T
border conditions, highly commend
ed the operations of the regular army
and militia officers in caring for the
soiaiers ana providing for their wel
fare. He said he would make a writ
ten statement to Secretary Baker
later, embodying several important
suggestions looking to an immediate
simplification of tha mechanics of the
army supplier.
Phoenix Family
I I
While Touring to the Coast
(Special to The Republican)
MONROVIA, Cal.. Sept. 2. Escaping death narrowly last night when
their touring car turned turtle, pinninq them beneath, E. S. Chaffee and
four sons, of Phoenix, are today patients in the Haben hospital. None
are seriously injured, the eldest son, Lyman, being the most painfully hurt.
He is suffering from numerous bruises and two fractured ribs.
The accident happened at the corner of Lemon and Mayflower ave,
when Lyman Chaffee, who was driving, cramped the front wheels in an
effort to make a short turn. The Chaffees were touring from their home
in Phoenix, which they left three days days ago, to Los Angeles where they
expected to join Mrs. Chaffee and adaughter, at the home of Alexander
Kirkoatrick, a brother.
Lyman Cbaffee will probably be a patient at the hospital for two or
three d?ys. He was on his way to resmue his work as a student in
Occidental College.
The Chaffees are well known ranchers of this section, their home being
a short distance west of the Christyroad.
T
P. Leased Wire)
2. The threat of a general
lifted tonight.
senate had passed without
to avert tthe stnk'e hvas
of 43 to 28 almost a strict
scenes after many senators,
it in the future.
The bill that stopped the strike pro
vides that after January 1, 1917 eight
hours shall be regarded as a basis
of reckoning for a day's pay of men.
engaged in the operation of railroad
trains in interstate commerce (except
ing roads less than 100 miles long and
electric lines) that they shall receive
pro-rata pay for work in excess of
eight hours and that their rate of com
pensation shall not be changed pending
an investigation for six to nine months
of the effect of the eight hour day upon
the railroads, 'y-a commission to be
appointed by ttu president. Efforts to
amend the bill.n the senate were futile,
the supreme effort to alter it having
been led by Senator Underwood, who
sought to provide that the interstate
commerce commission should have
power to fix railroad wages and hours
of service in the future This amend
ment was defeated by a vote of 57 to 14.
Only two democratic senators. Hard
wick of George, and Clarke of Arkan
sas, voted against the bill, and one re
publican, LaFollette of Wisconsin,
voted for it.
The roll call follows:
For the bill Democrats: Ashurst,
Bankhead, Beckham, Bryan, Chamber
lain, Chilton. Culberson, Fletcher,
Hitchcock, Hughes, Husting, Johnson
(S. D.) Kern, Lane, Lea (Tennessee-,
Lee (Maryland), Lewis, Martin. Myers,
Newlands, Overman, Phelan, Pittman,
Pomerene, Ransdell, Reed, Robinson,
Saulsbury Shepherd. Shields, Simmons,
Smith (Arizona), Smith (Maryland),
Smith (S. C.), Swanson, Taggart,
Thomas, Thompson Underwood, Var
daman, Walsh and Williams 42. Re
publicans: LaFollette 1. Total, 43.
Against the bill Republicans: Bor
ah, Brady. Brandegee, Clapp, Colt,
Cummins, Curtis, Dillingham, Dupont,
Gallinger, Gronna, Jones Kenyon, Mc
Cumber. McLean, Nelson, Norris. Oli
ver, Penrose, Sherman, Smith (Mich
igan), Smoot, Sterling, Wadsworth,
Warren and Weeks 26. Democrats:
Clarke (Arkansas,, Hardwick 2. To
tal. 28.
Railroad officials have declared that
the action of congress will cost them
$60,000,000 a year in increased wages
to the trainmen. Brotherhood officials
say the enactment will mean not more
than, an annual increase of $20,000,000.
In congress and among the railroad
officials there has existed doubt as to
the constitutionality of the law but
what steps if any may be taken to test
this has not been indicated.
Quick action by the brotherhood
heads followed the action in the sen
ate. No doubt existed In their minds
that President Wilson would sign the
bill as soon as it was handed to him
The measure embraces virtually all of
the president's original proposals to
(Continued on Page Two)
Near Death
