I
)
Try T-D Want Ads
Wonderful Little Business
Getters?Randolph I
t *7 v f t* r?>?
? *, "^vVrr-YT ^r K w3 **"*^rV;^;A' ?#T>? ? .1 ?' *? ? '.Jr ">>? * " ?,t* "t
?
. ' " ' "v ?'
That Vacant House
Let 7 he Times-Dispatch Find
V ou a Tenant?Now
66th YEAR
VOIiUMR CO
M Mil Kit 21?
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1916.'?TWELVE PAGES.
??*??? "a?*?C LOUD Y
PRICE, 2 CENTS
House Passes Bill, 49 to 44, Af
ter Spirited Debate in Which
Many Join.
bill affecting belt line
Measure Is Introduced Aiming
to Make Clear Who Pays for ?
New Street Crossings.
Home I,m v? ?s, t|?. IoihIhc
on ItK second reading yesterday. pro
\ ide.| merel\ I<<r sin amendment !o tho
present l:tw trl,<- end t)>at school
trustees ii, tli,. en un tie? of tState
mmnt !.,? ri-ct.ii i.y the n,at
and tint Ii Inn inor? . Cut half Hi- mem
?? ' ^ ?*f t!i<* Pou; ? in f}io tnf*;istir?*
MOtllilly ';|t it II attempt to I?llt till*
S;'!,""K botnha rded
the hill win, Mni, h,K artm,.rv
for i l,f )><>ttcr i r ,.f ah hour.
end ? ti,,. engagenjent. the
1 Vl n" placed mi n, passage. and was
<11 ? .? i r? ii to encTossment by a \ .r?.
" ,r> '<? 'Ii?? closest vote that has
\ eloped In the Ocnersi 1 Assembly dur
,h': Present *es?l.m. The hill U...-S
ti ?.\ t<> the senate for eoncurrence
Mural school t rustees !lr? elected at
present by vchool electoral hoards.
?.?' i .oniposed of tin- Conitiionwcalth'.s
attorney, the supervisor s. hools ;irid
??itlzrii appointed by ?i;jrcUjt
' This si'hetnc <>f election. it was
'-'harped by I M-lo-r.r.- Walton, one of
the patrons of ,(i,. t?'ll ll:...,or fJrr? is
und. mocratlc. anil .|. privet the
1 of direct co:<.- i? the man?
n>< of the most lmpoitant of Its
Mi.' s-amc position ivas
taken by Pole pate l.ove, of l.unenburg;
?fhcate iiorilon, of i^ouiHa. ami l>cle
Turner, of Hedford.
mi.i, rs w| n,i|.;i t
or MIAMI' iikhaii;
I'? eeatf f.'iMoline. thought
"" present method of selecting s. hool
trtjftt".> should I..- retained if the
l!;i1 ?r tli- s.hool hoards is t.. |...
preserved if It was Pound practice to
. lect these ,.r, ;irirtI^li ? ,
"?"'M -''at sehool tea-hers should
also be chot.e,, it; ? i?|>, manner.
Miarp attacks on the bill ?,-rc made
? V I?e|eKr,t,. I.ee.1-., ,.f !?;,trr Delegate
?lor-lat. of I'ulasi, ? |V1. .rate Statu, of
Ijrl.-tol: Pi'lcLMt.. l-iti. .,f Albemarl..;
IJel'gate 1 >a \ ts. of Norfolk r?eleP;ite
Hamscy, of Henry, and I >elega t e Iteed"
of I'ortnmoutl-.
- Tor polic> elect f?>r efllclenry. ap
point 'k trooci ;i,ivi,sail| |>elf(jate
Heed ' The s, hool hoards of the coun
ties ate not p>iii, ?.-formlntf bodies, but
a.!minist rsiti\. bodies: therefore, I
must. vo',. for appointing the members
or the o boards anil against the bill
MhlcJi proposes to elect them bv the
people "
Those ?|i["^iii? tli- bill were firm]-.
>f tl bell.-f
? is e> .if talent itit.
la iv uonhl be followed b> the election
ill mail) Ciiie.s of II f. rior men to sup.
plant valuabb men now members, who
would absolute!;, refuse to Ui
a political campaign for the sak. of
heint' elected to the school board
i-pe.-Mi, instances ,.f )nil(; ,.OI)Slru(..
live service I,-. il{ j,. ^ .U!;iin.
rnents- we,.. ? itt-.i t0 ,;|ve point to h.s
contention. In every .such ease, it wax
s'.ite.i, it \?..;ild :a\.. been virluallv im
possi ble ... ,n,luee ,,f thes. tl.cn
to entei popular race
* M - I'llKSKVT |
mi-;a vs i.ii'i: TK\rnK
I'e|eS;,,,. Turner thought that the
plan proposed |,v the bill would be a
deslrabh change from the present ap
pointment .system, ruder the present
Plan, he said, the only waj to remove
a man from the school board was to
kill him or wait until he dies, ap
pointment meaning usuallj that the
appointee remains on the hoard as lonp
as he wnnts to
?'n the roll call the members voted
as follows:
For the bill? Delecatr-s A dam p. A S ?
Adams. P. n ; Maker. II. R; Rauni,
Heat tie. Bond, Honhain. Howies. Hrown
Inc. Htthrman, <"alo. Clement. Ciddlron,
f'otnmins. Cook. Cornett, Cox. ICdwards.
1 I ana can. l'lo\d, f?i!pin. rioodwin, (Jor
don, Harrison, llenlev. ,Iott, Hove,
l.owry. H. C.: I.owry, M. k ; Mann,
Meetze. Xoland, Pane. Parr, Pence
Phillip*. Price, p. w.; Hew. Hoberts
Hussell. Steck. Stubbs. Sutherland'
Swift. Turner. Walton, Williams. Wit
ten and K. .1 WriKht?total, 4^.
Acainst the bill -Delegates Raker.
W. W.: Heale. P.irrcll, Hrewer, Hrls
tow. M row ii. Huclc. Hurke, Crockett,
ftavls. Podson. Epes, (latewood. Green,'
Hall, Harris, Hobsoti, Horsley, Hundley.'
Jones. Jordan, Kent. Heedy. Musgrave
Myers. Owen. Pitts, Price. .1. H.. Ram
sey. Reed, Holstoti, Shumate, Smith,
sproul. Stant, Stephenson, Taylor, Tif
fanj', Vnlentlne. White, \vtitls, "Wins
ton. Thomas. Wripht and Houston
total. 44.
Delegate Murray announced that ho
was paired with Helepate Cousins.
Had the latter been present he would
have voted for the bill, and Mr. Mur
ray would have voted against it.
iiii.i. oFFi'.nion Ari'FXTi.vo
iiHi.T mm: ritom.of
Richmond members Introduced in the
House yesterday a bill which amends
the present law bearing upon the ap
portionment of the cost of construct
ing street crossing across railroads.
The bill was drawn by City Attorney
Pollard, of Richmond, and has been
referred to the Committee on Roads
and Internal Navigation.
The amendment provided l.y the hill
consists in striking from the present
law the provision that "the expense
shall he borne nqtinll.v by said corpora
tion and by the. country, city or town
having control of such county road,
street or other highway." The law is
found In section 80. chapter 4, of the
Acts of 1002-3-4.
Under this law. the Richmond. Kred
orleksburg and Potomac Railroad Com
pany has served notico upon the city
of Richmond that it will insist in the
courts on the cltys bearing half the
oxpenee Incident to the extension of
the West End avenues across the Belt
(Continued on i,;ifth"~Page.')
Great Devastation
by Bomb at Dover !
Thirty-nine Killed, Collages Dc- j
slroycd and Transport in i
Harbor Sunk?
liKRLIN. January 2?< (by wireless to i
"ayville).?The Hamburger Fremden- j
blatl reports that one of the bombs]
dropped l?>- ttic licrtnun air squadron 1
when it raided Dover on Monday foil
on st depot of mines, which exploded,
and caused enormous devastation in tli*?
neighborhood. Thirty-nine persons, i
including one oflicer and twenty-four j
soldiers, the newspaper says. w?if
killed.
According to the Fremdenblatfs ac
count, tiie explosion did, r.ot taUe plac<
until llfteen minute? after the bomb
had landed, so that the soldiers :>* !ii.-"
believed the missile. was harmless
Hailroad ears, fi 11?.-?! witi 1 provisions,
and several cottages are reported to'
have i?eon destroyed.
' 'tie transport anchored in the hat ho
was damaged l>y the explosion, ami
sank immediately.
Twenty severely wounded persons
were transported to a T.ondon hospital.
'i'iie Hritish aeroplanes, the news,
paper adds, were not ready in time
for defense.
STEP TOWARDS PROHIBITION
>iihcnniiiilttpr of .ludlclnr y Committee
l-'nvornhly Heporl* Slirppnrrt lon
<?t 11 u l ionnl Amendment Itcnnlutlon.
I Special to The Times-Dispatch. I
WASHINGTON, .lanuarv 26 -A stop
towards nation-wide prohibition was
taken toi-day in the Senate. A sub
committee of the Judiciary Committee
favorably reported the Sheppard con
? ?titutional amendment resolution.
The resolution provides for submis
sion of an amendment to the Constitu
tion to the States which, if ratified,
would automatically prohibit the
manufacture and sale of all liquors in
the United States.
The members of the subcommittee
are Senators Chilton. Shields, Fletcher.
Moral) anil Cummins It is believed the
full committee will !??> EUided by the
report of its subcommittee.
"Alcohol is the hand-maiden of
pneumonia." saj s the United States
Public Health Service, in a spceia! re
port on this malady, issue'l to-day.
Speaklntr of the work of alcohol in
bringing on pneumonia, the Health
Service says.
?'I' is certain of success, especially
if liberally and continuously used."
The report stales that 10 per cent
of tliv d?atiis in the United States re
sult from pneumonia.
EATS 30-CENT LUNCHEON
i Mr*. U noiiruu Wllnon Finds Sent nt
i nunlrr In CrnHdcd flnlllmor*
l.ii ucli room.
[ Spec I a 1 to The Times-Dispatch. ]
I TtAI/riMOltK. Mli, January 2?5.?Mrs.
Woodrow Wilson. )m democratic fash
. ion, to-day enjoyed a rtn-cent luncheon.
She and her sister-in-law, Mrs. Polling,
of Panama, who is a White House
guest. spent the day shopping here.
? It was just 2 o'clock when they made
their way Into a lunchroom on North
Charles Street. They found seats at
the crowded counter and waited pati
ently for their order. Mrs. Wilson's
particular desire was for Maryland
biscuits. With these she had a
chicken cutlet. Her meal finished, she
( took the check and paid at the cashier's
j window. Then. bending over, she
asked if it was customary to pive tips.
She was told that, while not forbidden.
It was not encournped. so she slipped
: the change hack into her purse
MRS. FITCH GETS DAMAGES
Mother of I.nte I*ln y-rrrlnlit \rvnrdeil
Sum of Sll.d4S.KS Apnlnat Slinhrrt
Theatrical Company.
f Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
j NIC W York. January 2B.~Mrs.
; Alicc M. Fitch, mother of the late
1 Clyde Fitch, playwright, was awarder)
;$11.645.S5 damapes against the Shu
bert Theatrical Company to-day.
, Mrs. Filch claimed that the theatrical
' company had a contract with her son
i whereby he was to receive "> per cent
j of the pross receipts as royalties on
; the plays "Girls" and "The lilue Mouse."
I These plays were adapted from the
! German by Clyde Fitch.
The defense claimed that they had
been paying the German authors 3 per
cent as royalties. The jury hroupht in
a verdict for the plaintiff when it was
shown the German royalties had been
; stopped.
ARMED LINER ARRIVES
i *
I'ortrr ChRrltoti In Pa*?enger on Kal
ian Stenmer America, Which
Docks In \ow York.
j N'EW YORK. January 26.?The Ital
ian steamer America, with two gitns
I mounted on her after-deck, carrying
i as a passenger Porter Charlton, the
young American convicted at Unko
Covno of killing his wife, arrived here
to-day. Charlton's sentence expired in
November.
Charlton declined when the America
arrived at Quarantine to discuss his
plans. He said he would stop In New
York for a few days and then pro
ceed to San Juan, P. R.t to rejoin his
parentp.
; HOUR'S WAGES FOR HATTERS
Union Men Throiipliout Country F.x
peeted to Help Dnnbnry Work
men Save Their Homes.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
NEW YORK. January 2fi.~To
morrow will he "Hatters' Day" among
: union men throughout (he United
! Slates. Kvery union worker in the
country has been asked to set aside
his wages for one hour to-morrow, to
help the Danbury hatters save their
homos.
The day was designated by the lahor
convention in San Francisco. Union
leaders to-day stated they believed iho
request would be widely observed.
ARMED MEMS !
KILL U. S. SOLDIERS
i
- I
Fire at Men Swimming in Rio
Grande, and Four Die
by Drowning.
TWO OTHERS SEIZED BY BAND
American Army Officers, Who
Lead Rescue Party, Under Ar- :
rest at Brownsville.
r Sia 1 I o Tlio Ti mcs ? I>ivjci t -]t ]
hip?wn-vii.i.k. tkx . January .
Two \ hi? r ji MjMicrs were >?? /.( ! l.v ,
armed Mexicans and fotir others fired
*i{?<??!. were dt owned in th? Kit. ?:i? 11<I?>
This iifitrtioi.ii at l'roKi'?;.so. Te\. Th?*e??
I nitftl '-'fates army officers who led ,
? ? ?.iit?jr party into Mexico have befen
|iiiti'ti| under ;irr"st.
Th?? men were swimtiiini: i:i r v<>
ar.d had crossed lo the Me\: it. (>;tr<U
when two wore mu.de prisoners liy a
band of Mexicans. who suddenly
rushed out of the brush. The others
. >w,im :n:.dly for the Am^t i>? r?/i shore.
' volleys of bullets following them.
The tn:s??ing:
Private William C. Wh?<:i-.
Private K. Petersen, Fourth 1 ?I
\i tllleiy.
The drown'-d:
Sergeant Owen 1.. Clement
Corporal Michael 1". Kint;
I'rivnte Henry A liohde.
Private Charles f>. Wilton.
'"ieinent. King anti Rolidc were all
attached so Battery P. Fourth Field
Aitillery. Wilton was a member of
Troop A, Twelfth Cavalry.
T1 ? bodies were swept away by the
swift current and have not been re
covered.
-V relief expedition was immediately
oiisanl/ed in an effort to rescue the
two captured men. (t was composed
? ?f Lieutenants Mort. Pcvton and Wal
dron. fourteen artillerymen and a
cavalryman. They crossed tin* river
and s?arched for a distance of about
a mile, but failed to find trace of the
Americans, although a party of Mexi
cans sighted in the brush was fired
upon The Mexicans escaped.
He-enforcements are being rushed to
Proirreso from Mercedes.
The- skirmish was reported to army
headquarters here, and the thre>- of
ficers of the rescuing party were or
dered under arrest pending an investi
gation of the armed invasion of
Mexico.
noi)ii-:s of two riovs por.vn
\ KA H CrsiIf c:iIIACII If?
F.l. PASO. TKX'.. .lanuar.v 26.?The
bodies r.f Benjamin Snell and Prank
Woods. American cowboys, have been
found west of Cusihuirachic. accord
ing to an unconfirmed report from
Western Chihuahua, reachinu here to
day.
Snell and Woods were reported last
week to have left Cusihuirachic with
Hoy and John Kramer to rescue the
father of the latter. J?r. David Kramer,
who had beets wounded in the leg by
a bandit, and \\ ho was hiding in the
mountains.
Confirmation was lackintr to-night
of the reports that the bodies of Snell
and Woods had been found.
George C. Carothers. special repre
sentative of '.he State Ilepartment, ar
rived here to-day from l.os Angeles.
He expected to return to-morrow. Tlie
purpose of his visit was not made
public.
CAHn.\N7.A CnXKIlAI.
HOT 'rs y.APATA I.KADKII
; KL PASO, TKX., January 2rt.?Gen
eral A. Maycott. commanding a part
of the Carranza army of General
Jacinto Trevino, routed the Zapata
leafier. Benjamin Argumedo, in a battle
at Mazas, Coahuila. according to a
telegram received to night at Juarez,
j Maycott had 1,000 men. Argumedo is
said to have been in personal command
of the defeated forces.
j MKXIfA.N DAT \ SOON Wll.l, III'.
iu:.\m i on sknati-;
[Special to The Tinies-Dispa tell. |
t WASH 1NC.TON, I >. C., January 26.?
, The ?lata called for by the resolution
, of Senator Albert II. Fall, of X'ew
Mexico, which he has characterized as
1 "an indictment of President Wilson's
policy in Mexico." will be presented to
; the Senate either this week or next
j week, according to a statement made
by Secretary of State Lansing to-night.
Mr. i-ansiiik sf id the only reason for
the delay in submitting the informa
tion to ;ho Senate was pressure of
|o?her urgent business.
Senators cf both parties expressed
the opinion to-day that the Fall repoi t
(would .?ot -each the Senate until the
' President finishes his "swing round the
'circle" a week from Friday.
| State Department officials announced
. to-night that no permission would be
granted for the transfer of Carranza
troops through United Stales territory
i from Sonorn to Chihuahua.
POSSES SEEK NEGRO
>eoiirinjc Three f.'eurgln CoiintieN for
Alan Who Attneked Farmer'* Wife
With llnteliet and liutclier Knife.
MACON', OA., January 26.?Posses to
; night were searching l.aurens. Twiggs
j and Wilkinson Counties for a negro
j who early to-day attacked the wife of
j a l.aurens County farmer with a
I hatchet and butcher knife, according
to reports reaching here to-night. Six
negroes already have been caught and
brought before the woman, but in each
case she said tho negro was not her
assailant, it is said. The negro's fore
head was cut. and she was severely
bruised in a tight with tho negro be
fore iter screams brought neighbors,
who frightened Iter assailant away.
Fear was expressed in messages to
Macon that if the negro was caught
he would bo lynched.
f
Now Urges Creation of Tariff
Commission. Which For
merly He Opposed.
WRITES LETTER TO KITCHIN
lias No Thought Whatsoever of
Altering Attitude Toward
Protection Question.
WASHINGTON. .fiitiunrv ??; !??
dent M'ilson * <? - <1 :i *. ^ 111 a lett.-r to
? 'hairrr.au Kitchin. of the lloisft Ways
:i t:? I Mcai'v Comml'tee. explaining why ;
he liar! withdrawn his opposition to a
tariff commission, and now was n ? sir.;; '
the creation of such a lio?ly l>\ r'on
press. He wrote frnnkly that he had i
?hanged his mitirl because "all the eir
'?iimstaiu - s of the world ha<l changed")
declaring that he- had "no thought '
whatever of a change in attitude to-j
ward tin- so-callcd protection ques
tion," the President said the proposed
commission would have nothing to tlo I
with theories of policy, but would he
charged only with the duty of seeking
facts to cuide Congress in legislation.
In another letter to Mr. Kitchin on
Monday he hail set forth fully liis- ideas
<>f what a tariff commission should lie.
and iir^ed that the Ways and Means
Committee consider the matt.*;- imme
diately. He favored a wh 41 y non
partisan. expert organization.
in ok i iMii'KTicvr
INSTHl MKN'T OK INCH 11< \
"I have chanced my mind," sai<l to
dav's letter, "because all the circum
stances of the world have changed,
and it seems to me that, in view of
the extraordinary and far-reaching
chances which the Kuropean war has
brought about, it is absolutely neces
sary that we should have a competent
instrument of inquiry along: the whole
line of the many questions which inight
afreet our foreign commerce.
"I have in this chance of mind 110
thouirht whatever of a chance of atti
tude towards the so-called protection
question. That is neither here nor
there. A commission such as I have
suggested would have nothing to do
with theories of policy. They would
?lea! only with facts, and the facts
which they would seek ought to be the
actual facts of inquiry, and of the con
ditions of economic exchange prevail
ing in the worlfl. so that legislation of
every kind that touched these matters
might be guided by the circumstances
disclosed in its inquiries.
"I dare say, you feel as 1 do. that it
[ wouhl lie folly at this time, or until
j all the altered conditions ate clearly
I understood, to attempt to ileal with
questions of foreign commerce by leg
islation. anil yet. having dealt direct
ly and clearly with the whole question
of fair competition within our own
; borders, it is clear that as soon as we
1 know the facts, we ought to deal with
unfair mot hods of competition between
our nation and others, and this is only
I one of the many things that we would
1 probably wish to deal with. The other
matters I have attempted to indicate
iii my previous letter to you. I am
Clad to supplement that letter by this
explicit statement of th?? considera
tions which have been most influential
. with nit-.
KOHKSH \ now l-:n CONDITIONS
1\ Ills I.AST MK.SSAUK
i "You will remember that in my last
message to Congress 1 foreshadowed
i just the conditions which were operat
; ing in my mind at the time. The pass
' age to which 1 refer was this:
" 'Many conditions about which we
j have repeated!? legislated are being
? altered from decade to decade, it is
evident under our vers eyes, and are
| likely to change even more rapidly and
' more radically in the days immediately
J ahead of us, when peace baa returned
i the world and the nations of Kurope
j once more take up their tasks of enm
i merer1 and industry with the energy
' of those who must bestir themselves to
| build anew. .lust what these changes
i will l>e, no one can certainly foresee
j or confidently predict. There are 110
| calculable, because 110 stable, elements
! in the problem. The most we can do
'is so make the most of the instru
' mentalities of in format ion constantly
I at our service, so that we may lie sure
! that we know exactly what we are
j dealing with when we come to act. if
i it should be necessary to act at all.
We must first certainly know what it
! j.s that we are seeking to adapt our
' selves to. I may ask the privilege of
1 aiblressitiK you more at length on this
i important matter a little later iu your
| session
I "I need hardly say that I appreciate
i very full'. 1 lie motiv es by which you
(yourself are actuated, anil it is. there
fore. with the greatest confidence that
; I lay the whole matter thus fully be
! fore you. Congress has so much to
?do >*t tli- present time that it is clearly
! impossible that it should be able to
I collect all the data which such a com
mission would gather, and I feel that
1 it would present I.v find such a cotnmis
j.sion indispensable to it."
! WANTS NO I'MITK I I.Alt TIIKOItl
OK K1SCA I. rol.lft SKflVKI)
In his letter sent to Mr. Kitchin on
Monday, the I'residi nt said:
"I am conv inccd, as I suppose every
! interested person is, that it would lie
a mistake to provide for such a board
i with ilie idea of serving any particular
itheory or fiscal policy. What we would
'need would be, above all things else.
a board as much as possible free from
.any strong prepossession in favor of
any political policy and capable of look
? ing at the whole economic situation of
'the country with a dispassionate and
i disinterested scrutiny. I believe that
j we could obtain such a board If the
i proper legislation were enacted, and it
is quite clear to 1110 what the field of
jits inquiry and its activities should
j be."
j He outlined in detail his plans for
! the work of such a hoard, including the
| collection of tariff figures, Investlga
(Contlnued on Second I'agc.)
This is Result of Anxiously
Awaited Debate in House of
Commons on Question.
GREY'S SPEECH IS EFFECTIVE
In Scathing Terms Contrasts
Germany's Attitude With
British Position.
LONDON. January - -The mu 11 of
the anxiously awaited debate in the
Housf of Commons on the lilix kn<l?
que stioti is that the British government
adhcrrs to its existing policy.
A resolution introduced by Arthur
Spirley Bonn. Unionist member for
I'lymouth. tti.it the entire octanlc
tratlic with 'lormanv should ho pre
vented by a blockade, was talked out
I and the subject dropped, thus leaving
tin.* position exactly as before tin* de
I bate, except that I'arliainenl seemed
i more converted to the government
i policy.
| Interesting figures published by the
| War Department partly demolished the
\ elaborate structure raised b> the
! newspapers, and Sir Kdward Crey's ef
' feetive speech appeared to finish the
work thus bcKUn
! After the Foreign Secretary had
. spoken. Commander Bellairs said he
had anticipated that nine-tenths of
the house would he against Sir Kd
ward Grey. hut since his speech he
: had to admit nine-tenths were with
? him.
At the opening of the debate the
j house was crowded. all the business
j section being very conspicuous, and the
| galleries also were filled, notable
, visitors being the American attihas
j sador, the Swedish and Danish mln
! isters, l?ord Fisher and l.ord Stamford
. ham. private secretary to the King.
After Sir Kdward Orev had con
cluded. the discussion lost interest,
j ?iershom Stewart. Unionist, thought it
! would be advantageous to allow France
I to conduct negotiations with America
; respecting the blockade. William
llewans, Unionist, thought, that Sir Kd
ward > irev had failed to consider the
? case as he might have done, and con?
, tended that Great Britain had not
| touched the German economic machine.
lie wanted to see Germany wrecked on
; the economic as well as the military
j side.
Sl'GKKSTS THAT FOOD 1IK
AIISOI.l TB ( OM U.UIAM)
! The Right Hon. Sir Boert. Finlay,
I I nlontst, said the government had
j every reason to be satisfied with the
j debate. He suggested that food should
be absolute contraband.
Foreign Secretary Grey opened his
speech by saying it was a difficult and
; complicated subject which the house
j has under consideration. He had
, gathered front the debate that there
I was a real misapprehension concern
; ing the amount of trade passing into
i Germany, and regarding what this gov*
: eminent was doing: to stop that trade,
j Figures given in the press had created
a grotesque impression in regard to
the amount of leakage, and would not
; bear Investigation, lie asserted that
these figures did not take into consid
eration the fact that in many cases ex
j ports from the I'nited States had mere
ly made good supplies which neutrals
! formerly drew from Germany.
] Sir Kdward said it was time these
| attacks ceased, heeause they must have
| disappointing effect pn the navy, for
they led the navy to think its work
was being done by another department.
! Continuing. Sir Kdward said:
"With regard to neutrals, this gov
ernment Is perfectly ready to adopt
( any other method of carrying out our
; declared policy of stopping enemy
! trade, than one now adopted, which
j might be more convenient and more
j agreeable in practice, so long as it was
; effective. 1 would say to neutrals that
; we cannot abandon our rights of inter
: ference with enemy trade, and cannot
'exercise that right without consider
able inconvenience lo their trade. They
must answer the one main question.
| "Do they admit right to apply to
' the full these principles adopted by
the American government in tin- Civil
I War, according to the order of things,
' and do our best to keep trade from
j reaching the enemy from the neutrals,
j "If they answer ?yes.' which they
are hound in fairness, then I would
I say let them do their best to make it
easy for us to distinguish.
DDKS NOT I'M) KM ST A \ 11
THIS IS I". S. ATTITI UK
"If they answer that we are not eri
i titled to prevent trade wish the enemy,
jam! if the neutral countries take thai
; line, it would he a departure from neu
? trality. 1 don't understand that they
[Will take that line. It Is quno true
j there were things in the last American
j note which, if conceded, would have
; rendered it impossible for Great Brit
j ain to prevent goods, even contraband.
I going wholesale to the enemy, hut. I
J don't understand that this is the atti
! tude of the United States or any other
government."
Sir kdward in scathing terms con
i trusted Germany's attitude in regard to
{neutrals with the I'.ritish attitude, and
: said:
. It ever there was a war in whiclt
we and our allies could completely
recognize belligerent rights to their
; utmost extent, it was this war. What
, would have been said by neutrals if
| we had done what Germany has done?"
The Foreign Secretary emphasized
I again what was the aim of the allies,
and concluded by declaring:
! "We shall see this tiling through
to the end."
I'll I m flench SiiHn In < olnrx.
I Special to The Tunes-1 lispatch. J
I'AI'M BKACH. FLA., January "t?.?
The newest thing hi the way of wear
ing apparel for men is the I'alm Beach
suit in a variety of green, blue, red
and other bright shades. Hundreds of
these gay-colored suits have been or
dered, anil will soon be seen on the
\\ a Iks.
Political Side of War
As sumes Chief Interest
HOSTII.1TIKS mi nil fronts linving
for tin- moment dwlitdlril to
rather nil tin porta n I pro|iortluu<<, (he
polltiojil nIiIp of (lie ?nr Iiiin nun Ik
assumed the flilrl' roli? of Inlcrcnt.
The llrltlsli l':t r lin nu- n I is illseliss
inic nllli mil i' li it 11 i 111 :i I Ion \>linl steps
shall lie tiikcn to intikc iniirr rigriil
(lit- go ver mil nit's iiIiiii of keeping
koiiiN of nil Kins from being Im
ported or exported h? (iernianj ;
llrili-.li Inlior lias ileclilcil li y mi
uirmlirliiiliiK majority (o support
the UOVCI'IIIIII'III to (lu- full In II*
prosecution of the ?vnr; (ho (?rrnisin
n mliiiNsiidor nl Washington lias pre
uriilril to llir .tinrrlnin kimrrnmrnl
n ilrnfl noli* I'uni'triilnK llir sltikiiii;
of (In- l.tisitaulii. nlilrli Is believed
to hum-l nil (lit* \merlcnn demands
on lliU Issur, mid ?hlrh. if ni'rr|itril
lit tin- tier mini pivrrnmrni, nil!
Ilniilly rnil (In* riinlrovi'rM.T.
llii nd-t o-lui nil llchlln); lirlwrrn
llic Krrnch mill (>crmaii.sii( Neiivllle
I iHik pliu-r ulirll tin- I'rruch tried
lo inl>r irrnrhfN captured h y tlir
Commits. Merlin rrporl* (lint nil
tin- attacks urrr rrpnliiril. The
French, liowrvrr, linvr InUrii from
tin- lirrinnnii mlnr critters iliey lintl
occupied several days iiko, mill In
inlnlnn operations In the Arciinne
forr.il linvr ilmlrnjril lirrmnn
t rriirlirN.
The llritlsh House of l.ord* ha*
passed llir third rending of thr
military service hill.
BRITISH LABOR VOTES
TO CO-OPERflTE IN WAR
t'onference Pledges Itself to Assist
CJt>\eminent in Successful Prose
cution tif Conflict.
MAW PATRIOTIC ADDKKSSKS
Congress Passes Resolution, 1,817,
<>00 to '2<><S,0<M>, Kntireiy .Approv
ing Action of Labor Party in .loin
inj* in KecruitiiiK Campaign.
RRISTOL. January 2(5.?Itritish orp.in
ir.ed labor, on tho first day of a confer
ence which has attracted world-tvldo
attention, has outvoted tl\e extreme
Socialist antiwar section and adopted
two resolutions, in which they resolved
to co-operate with the government.
Ity a vote of 1,S47,000 against 216,000,
a resolution entirely approving the
action of thn Parliamentary Labor
party in co-operating witli other politi
cal parties in the national recruiting
campaign was adopted by the conven
tion. which also passed a resolution
pledging the congress to assist tin* gov
ernment so far as possible in the suc
cessful prosecution of the war.
.fames Ramsay MacDonald. Socialist
and Labor tnemhor of Parliament- for
Leicester, and Philip Snowden. Social
ist member for Ulackhurne, tried to per
suade the delegates to vole against
the motions, but when requested to
: define, their position clearly made
i evasions and were unable lo convince
the conference.
| SOCIALIST IMMIIDI tiT.I.V
MINKS IIUL1) OX 1)101,IH;ATMS
One representative of the Socialist
j section, when asked to state the terms
ion which lite Socialists would have
'.participated in a voluntary recruiting
campaign, replied:
"On no terms." lie immediately lost
lliis hold on the delegates, who were
overwhelmingly in tho opposing camp.
The delegation was a representativn
one. A large section of labor ntul com
merce attended, while seated on the
platform were two French Socialist
Deputies and Robert Applegarth. one
of the three founders of Trades
I'nionism in Oreat Rritnin.
Matty of the addresses wore patriotic
in tone. James Ramsay MacDonald
was criticized severely by his fellow
Scotsmen for spcwklng around about
the resolution without malting bis own
party's position known.
Oeorge James Wardle. member of
Parliament for Stockport, and editor
of the Railway Review, demanded .in
expression for or against carrying on
the war. and it was after that the
convention responded by carrying the
vital resolutions which derided I he
issue of tho conference by large ma
jorities favoring labor's co-operation
wilh lite authorities to bring about
a victorious ending to the war.
NATION'S DRINK BILL GROWS
(?nlti of ST ll.flW In l.nst Sli Months of
ini-t O^er Corresponding Per I oil of
\ear tlrforc In l#lc|iior-Tn\ Itccclpts.
I Specia 1 to The Times -Dispatch. 1
W ASi I IN* 5TOX\ January ?The na
tion's bill for drinks and tobacco was
larger in the last half of 11> 1 "> than in
tin* corresponding period of the ye.tr
before, if internal revenue receipts can
be accepted as a reliable index
Receipts for the six months from July
to December, inclusive, on spiritous
liquor taxes aggregate $$0,100,00 >, a
gain of $711,000 over the correspond
ing six months of 1011. Internal
revenue receipts on tobacco showed a
ualn for the six months of $1,700,000.
Total internal revenue receipts for the
six months were $200,300,.100, a gain ot
$32,017,712 over receipts for the same
period in 1011.
Under the head of special w;ir emer
gency tax, the Treasury Department
reported the collection of $10.000 000
on documents, perfumeries and cos
metics.
The corporation and individual in
come tax brought in $15,232,000 during
the six months. Of this, the corpora
tion tax netted $8.t54<?,002. and the in
dividual tax, $OS5.25fi.
Cabinet Members Sign Dec
laration Accepting Terms
of Surrender.
DISARMING IS GOING ON
WITHOUT DIFFICULTY
King Nicholas Personally Pleads
for Graceful Conditions for
Unhappy Country.
VVRITKS TO FR.WCIS JOSEPH
Detail* Lending l*p to Capitulation
(iiveu Out in Semiofficial
Statement.
i [Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch. ]
j BIClil.lN*. January 2? (wireless via
Jsa.vville).?All the mem her* of the
Montenegrin Cabinet signet) a dcclara?
I lion accepting the terms of uncondi
I tional surrender laid down by the com
j mander of the Austro-Hungarian army,
j Not only litis, Init King Nicholas
| wrote a personal letter to Emperor
| Francis Joseph pleading for "graceful
j conditions" for his "unhappy country.''
j These assertions are contained in a
I semiofficial statement Issued here to
j day in disproof of the claim made in
? entente quarters that Monteneuro never
i surrendered and is still figiuinc. The
! statements sets forth in detail the
! events leading up to and following the
| surrender. It says:
"The Montenegrins were still cole
limiting the Greek New Tear when the
j A ustro-Munga rian forces, advancing on
j Mont I.ovcen, encountered among its
| defenders 500 Italians, who were the
! llrst to flee.
! "On January 11 the Montenegrin au
thorities loft Cetinje for Podgorica.
[ On January 13 a Bosnian detachment.
! under command of a young first lieu
tenant, entered Cetinje and was wel
I coined ceremoniously by the loo-year
j old lliva Phunenas. hero of many lights
I against Turks in former years.
i "The young lieutenant ordered the
| inhabitants to surrender their arms.
, The same day there arrived at Cetinje
j two Montenegrin officers with a white
j Hag of truce bearing a letter written
personally by the King. Both were
led into the Grand Hotel, where, tliey
were guarded by Bosnian sentries.
CITIZ.UVS KOH3l.ll.liY
M L IIH10 \ D10 It TOW*
"In the meantime, an Austro-lfun
! garian brigade arrived, and the com
! mander received in the Grand Hotel a
? delegation of citizens who formally sur
? rendered the town. The authorities
j surrendered the archives and the pu'-llo
I buildings. From January 14 Cetinje
j was under Austro-llungnrian martial
i law. >.
"The letter of King Nicholas asked
j the Emperor Francis Joseph for grncc
j ful conditions for his unhappy coun
!,rr
I "On the 10th thf Aust.ro-IIunganans
.occupied the district between Cetinje
land ltyeka. The same day there ar
j rived three delegates from the Monte
! uegrin government bringing a written
j declaration signed by all the ministers
j that the terms of unconditional sur
j render of the Montenegrin army wore
accepted. Therefore, oil the 17th hos
tilities ceased.
"In several Montenegrin towns, how
ever. after the Montenegrin troops bad
left the streets, riots occurred, which
were stopped by the arrival of Austro
Hungarian troops. In Antivari a mob
stormed and looted the Italian consul
ate.
"The worst scenes were witnessed
in Podgorica, where Albanians fought
in the streets against the Montenegrin?.
"The King was last seen at Pod
gorica. where he arrived on a white
| horse in the tnidst of the silent popu'a
! tion. one man stepped forward and
! said:
i " 'Sir, we have no bread.'
I "The King then left, almost un- ,
; not Iced.
j ' >ne feeling that is found strong
everywhere among the Montenegrin
1 population is that of absolute hatred
against Italy."
I
. ItKI'OUT OK \t STIMAVS ll\
i.vhm; mown ok Aims
BICIH.IN, January "fi (by wireless to
> Sa.vville).-- The delegates of the Monte
! negrin government at 'i o'eloek last
night siRnerl articles providing for the
lay ing down of the arms of the Monte
j negrin forces, according to an an
! nouncement made by the Austro-Hun
i garian headquarters. Tlte text of the
! official statement says, in part:
j "Vesterday at f< I*. M. the delegates
[ of the Montenegrin government sinned
j articles regarding the laying down of
tiie arms of the Montenegrin army.
? The disarming is going on without dif
fleulty. and has extended to the ilis
Itricts of Kolasin and Andriyevica."
I From the Italian front it is reported
' that Austro-II ungarian troops in a
? battle near Oslavia occupied part of
j the enemy 's positions, taking prisoner
j 1.107 soldiers, including forty-tlve of
luer?. Two inaciiine guns were aij<o
' captured.
At S'I'IIIAN I'OltfKS VOW
ADVA VCIMi INTO A1.I1A.M.V
HV I'AMtl.I.O (lAM'Altll.t.
UOMK, January id.?While small
Austrian forces are completing the con?
quest of Montenegro by disarming the
scattered remnants of the Montenegrin
army. 200,000 Austro-Hungarian troops
are advancing into Albania, overrun
ning the northern section of that coun
try, and approaching the zone where
Italy bad for many years held domi
nant influence.
A report reached here to-day froni
Athens that, owing to the superior
numbers of th* Austro-HungartAn
army, the Italian expetitionary fortd
i
