. ODD CHARACTERS ON
PAYROLLS OF BIG HOTELS
Many celebrities and important function
THE WEATHER FOR
Cloudy to-day; rain or fin
aires me puouc never sees required to run
a big hottelry. Their pictures and stories
IN NEXT SUNDAY'S SUN.
to-morrow, cold
Highest temperature yesterday
Detailed weather, mall and mirlnereji
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 149.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 191G. Cowrtpht, m. bV the Sun Printing nnd rubn,hlng Asertatton.
PRICE
ENTS.
ECAST. .
two rc
BIG INCOMES
TO PAY BILLS
FOR DEFENCE
Democratic Loaders Say No
Other Ifo veil uo Pleas
ures Will Puss.
2110 PKK CKXT. HAISE:
SriMMMSK FOlt WILSON
Wa-min.toS. Jan. 2. Development..
XfJi. indicated that the Dcmocrnts of
the House ill ropinU.it President Wll-,on-
auceest-.t tcvenue programme and
ine,i h it the Income tax be relied upon
te tan: 'e the niitlnnal defence expcndl-
The d.srlosure that the Democrat of
t!ie Houe are likely t oppose nil reve.
nue measure for defence cxpenrtituic t
except the increase of the Income ,.,x
!i came as a surprise to the Prcsl-1 NcvPr,,f,B iepublicaii In Congress
rent I are piepariug to charge that not only
The iiifotmatlon resulted from a cnte. 'the President but alo the entire Demo
M canvas, ot the situation In the House j "atlc party have undergone u change
!J1 . ., , , ,. i. t mind on the question of protection
rade i.y the Democratic leader. It de- 1nJ ()U h,H , ,iel!1R rt.ecU.d uy pr.
itloped th.it fully fifty member have ent developments. These developments
rltten letters to the House leaders ex-1 Include the adoption of the Idea long ad-
.eeslng helr determination to vote
itainjt all new excise taxes or other
Ieil.it on designed to pay for the army
ird av Increase", except changes in on account 01 us protectionist features,
... , ...... i - i. land atoo the likelihood that the Demo-
the t.i. nine ax law ...... crats Will act favorably upon a bill
It i said authoiltatlvely that full) KratnB Increased duties on deetuffs
Bftv members In addition to the num-, essential to American Industries.
br "ho have written formal letters to'
th. Ilmi-e leaders entertain the same 0,,, "" ''
ie e tr.mation. ., F.rl'n,l!,1 f he I'fe-l,Ient said to-day
,. , ..... a , 1, that the tariff board recommendation l
M ,i tesult of this development It , n)y one ()f ,evera, he na!, ,n m,nd
was said on hlsh authority to-day that Ui recommend to Congress whereby the
'he Ways and Means
Committee Is ,
lke! to present to the House caucus a
il, incie.islns Income tax rates by ISO
or 2'P per cent. The committee will re
port such a measure not because of any
tcnwctlon on the part of the majority
'-.at other proper . source of taxation
.'or defence ate not available hut In I
econnltlon of the sentiment among the
Democratic membership of the House.
Support nf All .Needed.
The leaders of the committee, lnclud
Majority Leader Kltchln, are con
t.nced thet the revenue measure to be
(-inied at this Congress must be a mens
re for which the support of practically
even member of the Democratic caucus
on if secured.
One of the leaders of the committee
nominee
pointed out that If as many a fourteen
members of the caucus are opposed to a
revenue measure presented from the
W; 3 and Means Committee the meas
'J e ma fall of p.is:age In tho House
'e use of their defection. It will be the
, . of the majority leadership to
,ii'e a bill ernbodinB exery concession
e .-.! to secure the undivided ap
T . of the. House caucus.
neasure which the Ways and
Mm committee is now Inclined to re
t ' i answer to the demand of the
It -e democrat will not provide for
!oe' ; l ie present Income tax ex
' ' " The sentiment which demands
i mes shall bear the expense of
U itinn;il defence Increases is a een
t. fir the taxation of wealth.
T i Democrats from whom this sentl-rre-i
cnMri.ttes believe that the men
' ise inroinei are below the present ex
i p.liin points are already sufficiently
lAxe't bj the (invernment. They believe
1a ic!oii whose Incomes exceed 14,000,
-1 epe Lilly the holders of big Incomes,
.' i i '. forced to bear all of the ad
dit "ial expenditures for the protection
of t' u , oiintry.
Iiicrrnai In Surtax.
To -h. end they advocate not only a
f.' if ri.ise of from 130 to 200 per cwit.
In ' e present Income tax rate scale
i r. .ises on the eoirtax on the larger
!' ill's The niesent illsnosltlon of the
W it rl Meiifi Committee Is to be
t' ni"l h) this sentiment.
N-' H does there seem to ha a sen
t' i o' a'nong House Democrat for fore
lit' I'th to pay tho cost of additional
Us!-, eualltles of defence, hut there
i .i lem md for the repeal of the pres
ent ex t. levied by tho so-called war
' it Is now probable that the
r.'-. t Hnuoe will repeal tills law, which
fie,irted In December.
T eienue Hltuatloii in the House
'r 1 ' ic III nl ha leeu reanled ns the
'.. i element In tho Administration's
!. en 1-iHtinn, The Admlnistnitlon's
P ' Hue believed to be especially
vuiiif nhi. Ixcause It was to face a dl
v.s.on in tho i.inks In its own party and
efiuld it depend upon itepubllcan sup
P1 i'I in view of tho uncertainty
' " Ib'publlcins would Insist upon
N r nc t lie iiistoms dutleei an a means of
rjpn s n,p additional revenue.
a II use loader put It to-day, the
"i i'i am, ate willing to vote for the
"tte, ip !t s army and navy Increases
rd "in to vote against his taxation
rr.e.sur
ot roes of Defence,
The , ,ui,iiePs of the revenue sltua
Hn:, -v., smrdMhlted to-day by the rlla
' 'hi f tint the Income tax sentiment
r- 'ifen worked up solely by tho
tipone't nf the Prealdent on national
but that home of the active
; i i i'.oni those creating the le
nanl have already indicated thedr in
tTitin m vote for the army and navy
rro;.f,i unie
'i f the leaders of the antl-pr-rre.nie.
Hgit.uion declared that while
r fe i t tieTSH,ir to dual with the
''UHiMin n ,., practical fashion and to
'"it to the wishes of a substantial
rr.j(, it f,f (he Democnitlc mernbershlp
U per- ituliy was willing to aid the
I reMi i m pasMng revenue measures
ie'' as were outlined In his annual
rr.'i.i:. to Congiee-s had such a course
' ird ti'ishlhlc.
Th, leader h.ild lie wss convinced,
r'we.r ,,H ;1 rieult of a tvn-oful study
'" 1 .if n i .iion n the House that the
Mm ' Mutton ha only tline sources
vs.' .linn for the national defence
ii in These are: Now Income taxes,
ms.in or a Turin revision Howard.
Hp .M-ii .ha the Picttident'M view are
" t'l ''.I ar- to tne exne.1 enev tT
r.i
ue or a tarur revision and that
rirmeii no alternative to Ills nc.
n-ii'dc . f me iicnm tax plan,
V,''MM. (ItslKlts Are Tattler. A touch
in n ilieir flsvor. me.t Ollnoii. Th
' i mi nn firry lirl ln.lic.lta uilalllr
in r., mi, , ttlccltsj. and twice Inspected.
(to.
President Changes His
Mind on a
Frankly Admits He Has Reversed His Opinion, Though
He Has Not Changed His Attitude on the
Principle of Protection.
NEW CONDITIONS IN
Washington. Jan. 26,Presldent Wit
con made public to-day two letter writ
ten by him to Majority Leader Kltchln
explaining hlii views as to the need for
n tariff board.
In one of these letter President Wil
son frankly acknowledge that ho lias
I even-oil himself on this Important sub
ject, lie explain It 1 h change of front
on the ground that condltlona through
out the world have changed.
The President denies, however, that
his attitude on the question of protec
tion has been affected.
"I have had In this change of mind,"
m he, "no thought whatever of a
- ... "I
eha'.geof mltude toward the ....called.
voeated by llepubllcuns In favor of
tariff commission, the decision to pass
anti-dumping legislation, which wiis re
jected two )ears ago by the Democrats
country may more completely prepare
Itself for the untried conditions which
will reult from the war.
After a conference with the President
to-day lleprescntatlve Kltchln, the
House leader. Indicated that the Ad
ministration's proposal for the establish
ment of rf tariff commission Is meeting
with favorable consideration among
Democratic members. Mr. Kltchln. nt
"lumen tnis onange or sentiment to tne
KriinuiK urnue .u uuauir.i iur vim
tlon of a non-partisan board of this
character.
"The statement of the President's
position will be received with great sat
isfaction hy business men," said Presi
dent Kahey of the Chamber of Com
merce of the United States. "The senti
ment of business men In favor of such
a commission has been almost unani
mous for jears because of the general
I disturbance of huslne-s which ha tisu
ally attended the making of our tariffs
...,. i,.i, i... ,..l...i
, " ,, ' ' ' '
Mr. Kahey added that "the sooner
Congress can pass a carefully drawn
measure along the lines of the Presi
dent's suggestion the better the busi
ness men of the country will like It."
The President's Letters,
Here are the letters written hy the
President to Mr. Kltchln.
In common. I dare say. with every
one who wishes to be thoughtful of
the future economic prosperity and
development of the country, 1 have
been thinking a great ileal recently
about what It would be wlw to do
to provide the Oovernment with tho
neceasnry data to furnish a sound
SNOW WRECKS TOWNS
NEAR LOS ANGELES ;
Train Buried, Rnildinyrs Col
lapse and People Suffer
Temperature :0 ltelow.
1 Asnr.i.K. Cal. Jan. C.. New
that one man wi froien to denth, that
an entire train was burled In snow
drifts, that score of building had col
lapsed under the enormous weight of
snow and that people nnd live stock
suffered In n temperature varying from
19 to 30 degrees below xero reached
here to-day from Owens niver Valte,
U,0 mile northeast of Los Angeles.
The message was the first that came
through since the unprecedented snow
storm which began last Friday, Isolat-Ing-
Owens Valley for flvo days.
A train on the Nevada-California rail
road was snowed In for two dns while
crossing the summit ot "White Mpun-
'"within sight of his little home, where
his young wire and two chl dren avval ed
his coming, the frozen body of Manuel
CorrVTwIio had been sent out Saturday
night to repair Owens Valley's lone elec
trie light wire, was found Sunday morn
ing In a bank of snow.
The largest hulldlng In Big I' M, a
two story theatre and dance hall, col
lapsed under the weight of the snow.
Manv roofs were buckled.
In Bishop, a town of 1,500 Inhabitants,
the snow reached a depth of Jive feet.
Here nearly a dozen two story buildings
collapsed under the blanket, of .now.
Scores of houses also were destroyed,
the Baptist Church partially col apscd
under weight and to-night during a
furious wind was levelled,
Bishop Is the largest of the small cities
heard from In tho valley. Its telephone,
Ight and water services are nut of com
mission. Much suffering from tho In
ense cold Is being experienced by the
Inhabitants. The temperature dropped
to 30 degrees below aero.
Scores of bulldlngH and dwellings col
lapsed at Independence Laws and a
number of other towns In the valley, nil
ving In the shadow of the main range
nf the Sierras, whence came tho ttorm.
number of little towns and cities In
the Owen Valley aro still cut off from
he. outside world and much fear 1 fell
for the Inhabitants of the communities.
Vri, Htnrm continued from Friday,
abating slightly to-day. iiccnrillng to re
ports to-lllgni over " -
phone wire wnicn wn pin i..u i .riinn.n
nn this afternoon. '
KXTHA IIRAVi IMJHOOVI AMI f '.
r.iltTMr.NT I'Alt" TO r-MIKIIIA.
Heslnril Klnrl.lH l.t.l. JllO'.JI QiilikMt.
brat equipped FlorlJ.truln. Inq., till Xi'war,
J4v,
1
Tariff Board
WORLD ALTER VIEWS'
basis for the olicy which should be
pursued In the jears Immediately
ahead of us. yeais which will no
doubt be full of many i buncos which
It Is at present Impossible for the
most prescient to forecast, and the
more I have thought about the matter
the plainer It han become to tne that
ho ought to have some ruth Instru
mentality as would be supplied by a
tariff board.
1 am convinced, as I suppose every
disinterested person must be. that It
would be a mistake to ptovidc for
such a board with the Idea of serving
any particular theory of 0ih-.iI nolle)'.
What we would nctsj would be aboe
nil Milium else a board as much n
Kslble free from any slrorot prepos
session In favor of any political policy
and capable of looking at the whole
economic situation of the country with
a dispassionate and disinterested scru
tiny. I believe that we could obtain
such a board If the proper legislation
were enacted, and It I nulte clear to
me what the field of Its Inquiry and
Us activities should be,
Whnt Hoard Mioillil llo.
tf should. It seem lo me, Investigate
the administrative and fiscal effects
of the cuotom laws now In force
or hereafter enacted : the relation be
tween the rate of duty on raw ma
terial and tho- on flushed or half-
finished products; the effects of nd
valorem and specific duties and of
those which are n compound or spe
cific and nil valorem , the arrangement
nf schedules of duties nnd the classifi
cation of the article In the several
schedule : the provisions of law and
the rule ami regulations of the Treas
ury Department legardlng entry, ap
praisement. Invoices and collection:
and. In general, the working of the
i,.isr i,... i .nn,i nffeet I
i,,ii,,ini.,.i,. ,eii,,wl
It could nnd should also secure facts
which would be very useful to the
administrative ntllcer of the Oovern
ment, to the Congress and to the
public at large, through Investigations
of the revenue received from customs
duties and the articles subject to duty.
the cost of collection thereof and the
revenue collected rront customs duties
"in! Id Trlr!li. "," nffird 1
throw light fiom every possible angle ( u,, HUperntcndents not re
lnr.m r'1.n,'',IR, I'etween the , rCtei, Twcnt.v-one votes were cast for.
ih. rJ nfHutv nZ, ,,7m S
nbnr, fo e'lenro imri' sMheTx" !
products In foreign countries: the ex
istence and effects of discriminating
duties, commercial treaties and prefer
ential provisions: the effects of export
bounties nnd preferential transporta
tion rates, and the effects of any
special or discriminating duties that
may be levied by the Pulled Stntes.
It might In this connection furnish
the Stnte Department with very valu
able Information regarding treaty and
trnlff relation between the I'nlted
States and foreign countries.
c;rel Aid In lii.lnslr).
It might further be of great assist- I
ance to the Congiess and to the
puuiic anti in .American in.uieir.v uy i
Investigating the Industrial effect of
proposed or existing duties on products
whlih compete with products of Amer
ican Industry; the condition of com
petition between American and foreign
e'oiillii'ir.f nil 7 hint I'tigr
W. P. SMITH, BROKER,
TO WED HIS NURSE
. .... ,
Melllher of I Ilion aild Other
Cluhs Enprajrod
.Mary. T. In
S.II-TII Nonw'At.l. Cnnn . .ti... ?r. - An
nouncement here to-day of the engage.
ment of Mis Mary June Ingham, duugh-
ter of Mr. and Mr. Oeorge W. Ingham,
tn William Palmer Smith, a New York
- ,
broker, tells the inry of n romance in
vrhlch the mlnlstrntlnni of a nurse wnn
fnr her a husband.
Miss Inghnm Is 25 years old, She
entered the Smith home In her nrnfes-
Blonnl capacity last summer nnd wiih
successful In coaxing back her patient's
health. She remained there until the
family detected the attachment. In the
meantime tire patient nnd nurse had
come to a perfect understanding and last
week Mr. Smith gave her nn engagement
ring.
It I utiderstod that the wedding will
take place In the early part of February.
The couple will make llielr home at the
Hotel Hlltmore In New Virk city.
Mr. Smith Is of the firm of Hreese &
Smith, broker, of 06 Broadway He I a
member of the St. irk Kxchange and of
the Pnlon Club, the Players, the Hal
tusiol Oolf Club and St. Nicholas So
ciety. He ha a summer home nt Plain
field, N. J.
CHILD LABOR BILL TO PASS.
Filibuster by nuhrrn House
I'olerle Fall nf Purpose.
WAsiltNQTON, Jan. 26, Itepresenta-1
UX'es ir.i.ii ii." viihiiiiih. nnu otiier
Southern States who attempted a till
buster iigalnst the child labor bill were
routed In the House, to-day mi.l tho way
wa cleared for passage of tho measure.
Largely through the parliamentary ma
nieuvres or Minority Leader Miiiin the
measure wn kIvcii privileged Mntus,
which Insures its piis.ikp.
Itepresentiitlve Webb of North Cirn
Una and HeprcsentiitlvcH Byrnes and
Uagsdaln of South t.'nrollna, with some
aid fiom Hepresentiitlvn Ailiimmin of
(lenrgla, hhowered iimeiulinenl on the
bill and otherwlso sought lo delay final
action, According to the rule the hill
w,ih t.i have explicit If nut acted upon
In-day. Before this wiih accomplished a
new lcane of lir w,ih given the hill by
the adoption or a motion giving It prece
dence over nil oilier measure on the
calendar until a vote Is taken There is
a substantial majority back or It,
.TH. COVIPAKTVIrJN'T , l'lH Ol Klt
Aii'li ON "r'l.ortltlN KPKOIAL" TO I'AI.M
IIICACH slid tU'i I'naai CoInU Dallr 1 other
trslna dall?. Atlantic Cowl Ur.e, 1!M !i't7,
-Aiv.
DR. MAXWELL MADE
SCHOOL HEAD AGAIN
Wirt. Mayor's Choice, (Jots
One Vote Only From Hoard
of Education.
MISS NTH AC II AX ELECTED,
flillespie. of Churchill Faction,
Expected to Succeed as
President.
Dr. William H. Maxwell was uimnl-
I iniiuslv leelected fltv Superintendent of
Schools yesterday at n meeting: of the advised his f!oernment to-night to nc
' Hoard of IMucatlon. In addition he re-' rept the views of th" United StalM re
,cele.l it leave of nl.sence with full liv ' gardltig what l es.entl.il to a satis-
from Kebruary 15 to October 1" of this ,
year i
The election was a romplele victory Mr
'the forces In the board oppoied to the
'nresent .Itv irnvernment. the heads of
which weic repotted to favor William '
Wirt, superintendent of schools In f.ary. '
Init . who has been Introducing the Wlrt.l
work, study and play system In schools
here for the last year.
.... . ..... .
, ... ... ,. ,',
statements disapproving the regime
M..A. tl.l..l ...... .llli.
1,1. i-IIIAnClli ..l.lV. ...IIL.I, I -,- .
i . ... . . ..i. i '
, H..-r , e ...
...i.. .r ...r. iri. . i.r v o. . , u. -
.l.lered by he school authorll es a. .
fecast of the election of the president i
1 !VtZXS:X '
.man ot tne special coinniui.e .mi .w
. . .........
omy. will oppose William O. Willcnx of
sta'ten Island, the Mh) or' candidate,
Commissioner John Whalen, leap
pointed by the Mayor this year and be
lleved In tie tine nf bis stinunrlers. moved
thi' unanimous election of Dr. .Maxwell
l by the seerctar) fasting one ballot. This
j method was opposed and H vote taken,
j resulting In thlrt)-one votes for t)r
Maxwell, one for Mi. Wirt nnd seven
blank. Mr Whalen then proposed that '
me (11-CllOI
the (lection be made unanimous.
Twetity.four votes vveie necessary to te
, elect the Superintendent.
Another nioir for Wirt.
The Wirt forces suffered another seri
ous setback )eeterd.iy when Joseph S.
-T. ...... .11-. -I... .utmnU
.iit.'i. ..itii. m.cii'.. i-v.i.'v..- ,
In The Ilronx. whose term explies on payment cairjuis. ui i. -ivii.n,,..
it ..... .eeie.-ie,i Mr. mission that Oermanys act was II-
Ta)lur , , nl.V(. t),arge of the d!s-
!' ' ..' h,f.h W" '"..TTf
flfl"" nKalI,,t hlm nn'1 on ,,',llot Kn
re.urnei. blank. Miss O, ace, C. Stiachan
i of Brooklyn, president of the Interbor-
ough Association ot women icicners memorandum which Count von isern
'and vice-ifiesl.lent of the l'c.leiatlon of htorlT ptesented to Secretary Lansing,
i Teachers soel:itlons. was leelected, uin.-i. s relei-led tiv the Htter as un-
' twenty-seven votes being cist for and
fourteen iigalnst her. District hupetin
tendint James M. Kdsall. John T
I Nicholson and Henry K. Jenkins were
' leelected.
Mr. Taylor, the defeated candidate,
win ne vnie.i on again ai ine next ineci-
Ing when the committee on nominations
makes Its report, nnd if lie falls to poll
the twenty-four necessary vote will be
reduced to a prlnclpalshlp Associate
Superintendent Clarence K. Meleney
and William McAndrew were leelected
unanimously.
Wanted Klei-lloii lelne.l.
The elections yesterday were held
, nrier tne coniuutiee nn iiomiii.iin.iis ua.i
J requested that Its eiMrt be h.l.l over
until the next meeting. A motion was
made to postpone the elections until tho
next meeting, but Commissioner Morton
.stem insisted i II n I sucn n ciurn. wini .i
be Illegal, a the eliftion had been ad-,
vertlsed in the n th e of th.- meeting.
C. II. J. Synder was reelected superlii-'
ten. lent or tiiiii.imgs an i-airicK jone
superintendent of supplies
Dr. Maxwell was bom III Stewarts-
town, Ireland. In lsf.2. and lit the ex-,
I Just been elected will be at the legal
retirement age of ,0. HI salary Is IM. -
luniii.... u. .... .-,. . , ...,n
, ' ? '- ' -m
e Commissioner nnd five assoclnles.
1 When asked last night if lie had any
, comment in mawe on ne eieciinn ni
perilliciliieill .-.luxweti, .tiiij.ir ..uicuei
!,.,,.
, "There Is nothing thnt I can say of
1 the election. Till Is the first that 1
j knew of Its outcome and the only thing
that I can say Is that the matter Is
wholly in the hand nf the Board of
K.lticatlon, and they were acting accord
ing to their best Judgment,"
U. S. AEROPLANE SPEEDY.
Xllllliir. Trm-inr Kile fil llnle nf
llllliir irniior rile in llnle of
ll.- Mile an Hour.
Itiiaoa, N. V.. Jan. 2fi. Tho new
,!lr. Verr.nln.in f'.
Tlioma
to .Miss L"V";'.,.'.m"U,1 BSV0.'n,rvlT,rihr'.'!''-1-1"-1' n;" ,ook the lrt of the Pnited State Oov. rn-. 'lelet.tlon of malls has been handed
i V .hi f....e l.i 11 1. .i In r,, . ..V, I. ihe .s"ul.l the uerun Foreign Office ngaln ment In regard to suPmarine u.i iwr-. " ...... ru-,.., i.iniiassy nere ny tne
ffllfllll. Ll, hi, m ml, lne for l slatlon In ' ,lp",,,r "v,,r "" 'or nf "ettlement de- ,urhcd official circle here. 'rN.r.Ign Office. The pole states that
Jf S'S,' 'lif H ' -I ''-"'-nnd LWWLW X '"7T ' -on
Among Ihe bills voted against w:i one r.xnre.e,t th.n ,. nreen.en, lu i ,J1. ,.n n nl.iies raising the I rench tlnvcinmeiu h.iK slKiilfled
. nrovi.l tig tor lie iinoimoii nt ine no.ir.i ..,... ................ . ..-,, i,i,, It approva of l rc.it li-li.iln mil.
mllltiirv tractor aeroplane built for the mint'"! wn borne out by the fact that
Pnited Slntes Oovernment wn driven at . eerta n diplomat!, have obtained the Im
the rate of ninety-five miles nn hour by Presslou that this will be done In the
Aviator Frank II. Biirnslde .r thl olty n'nr future. ......
ii a series i.r flight to-dny. With n 1 "e "Vn" "' I"','iU"n H ,hHt
slight wind at his back Biirnslde covered ! ' l'1 JJ1'"1," ",'cnna1", "ul"'lar,"" '
oiichalf mile III IT. 1-5 seconds. Agnlnet responslh e for the sinking of the P. A
the vvlnd ho uvide one.hnir mile In 20-l.f. I " Perala Oermany would have re
seconds. His average for a mile was K-'lfd I'"' '';' -;'Ml,"".'?,e " the
3S Mfonds. . light of the evidence that the Persia
In one flight lie made a half mile In mounted a 4.7 Inch gun. Both Oermany
171, seconds. All of BuniHlde's time and Austria are disposed to contenn
nine teonrded by the official timer of that the arniliig of an enemy merchant
the Aero Club or America nnd forwarded "" m',k,'H vll''V.ly. "" ,,,lxll'ar
" Nvw Y()ru. 1 ship of war. The state Department. It
I In believed, Is almost ready to take a
NO PRISON JOB FOR WOODS. , "'"l'lanm .wie.llnek, the Austrian Charge
1 d'Affnlies, cilliil on Secretary Lansing
Decline IIHe' Plnee After lo-duy and Inqulicd a to what attitude
l.niii'lieiui With llniernnr.
Police Commissioner Arthur Woods v, (n ;,, Y.uli several days ago with
declined an offer from Oov. Whitman to BlllH a,,ir.l, oill.ial notice of tlm ar-
nccept niipolntinent a Siipeilnteii.lont , , nf t)ln ship wa received by the De-
of Prison to succeed John B. Hlley. t "mnl ,0..i,,y rro.n the Tieasury De-
wiih learned yesterday. Tho Oovernor ' which in turn had received
unchril with Commissioner Woods on '' " "" ' (.iiector or Ciistnm ai.
Tuesday nnd made the proffer , ,hat '"KUX
Commissioner Woods would no. ,l,l, VewVolk'fo d!. vT.n.u ,?r-
last night that the ntTer had been made, rival at New V'rk to- lav under similar
hut ho said positively that lie was not clrcunistam c id the Italian liner Amci
going III quit III Job II Police Coinmls. ! lea.
Hler ' ibat Inqiiliic should have been made
"I shall stay nt the iid of the fntce by Barnn .wiedlnelt was explained by
Just a long ns Mayor Mllchel wants I tin fmi tliat Oermany, never huv Ing de
me," lie sal.l, "It Is true that Hie Oov-i claied war against Italy, tins no direct
eriior and I did discuss a number nf niteiesl in the sailings of the Italian
matter, but mi) Information a In hn .iri.
inline of the discussion must come
from the (l..vernnr b1 ,,,, ,., M, . v
Hill' I'llCK.S It.MI. WAV f..r Aiken sn'l Au.
riseh.irat, X, r., renlre of aallMr tpertt. , u.i.. ri.inpiirliii'nt car dally to Aufuat.
ffeial Carolina, Holly Inn, Ctiiiahlrt, Now Huperli aeivlvr, N, Y. Ofhce, :ti Fifth Av.
van. Aait I dir.
BERNSTORFF URGES
BERLIN TO SUBMIT :
Advises r.overnment to Accept
Lusltnnia Demands of
United States.
FIX UN TEH. MS AOHEEABLE
.Ambassador Assures l.ansinjri
He Will Do His Hest to
Settle Case.
Wasiiixotos', .Tan. S. Count von
llrrtistoiff, the German Ambassador,
factory eememeni
of the l.usltanla
The message to his Government was
t the Ambassador following a
conference with Sectetary Lansing.
'"' ,M, reeommenaauon we.u i
memorandum prepaid at to-day's con- '
''"'"' "nun. or,
rornu.l tne .vmoassaoor, reprercnieu
what the Secretary declared to be 1
, . . . . .. . .,. H.i.vinl hn was nr.
itrL. - - .'... . iv ..., ... i... . ..
rentable to the Ambassador himself,
. ... ,
the Amliasador was able to
lil'i-li-1'
nsstire Mr.
1.,111'liu' lie would ue his
,,..i , h. ,.,,
U.--....U. ........ --.
vteKu (Mllce to approve It. ,
i,oui,i tlil.-s I- the case the reply
f.o. Berlin Is Ilkely to be a forma, no,.
. . I. n.vAvn titnnf amnnn t IIP
i" .....v....
all the concessions demanded
fiern.nnj'. Itepl)- rorroi..!.
in that event It Is said the note will '
Include:
I.enewcd representations of regret
by (icrniany over the loss of the Amer
ican lives.
Iteference to the assurances given
by Oermaiiy In the case of the Arabic,
and subsequent!), that he would not
again attack unarmed unresisting mer
chant vessels without warning nnd
without giving the passengers and
trews piortunity for escape
An offer to make full and reason-
able reparation In
money for the '
Ainercan lives that
were lost, such
legal.
Th.s last paragraph. If adopted In
substance by Germany, will constitute
a concession on the chief jolnt of differ-
"'' ''1''' fn resnslble for the,
delay Although willing to pay an In-
demnlty (lei-many, as represented in the
satisfactory, preferred to pu it rather
ns nn a.'l or grace nun not necause m
admitted legal liability.
In tho t onim im let t lou sent to Herlln
to-night Ambassador von llernstorfT I 1 revelation. The admission of the mis-, to his camp and retired rapidly west
understood to have advised his lov , take In geography changes the whole ,v.,ni. An eiiemv canm ivennie.i in-
rinment that the I nlted Mates cannot
invent settlement on any basis other
tna a1 admission that the attack on
,i,e Lusit.inla was legally unjustifiable
i so far ns It Invaded the rights of the
neutrals on hoard.
Send MrnsnKf- to Berlin.
On leaving the Secretary's office the
Ambassador stopped long enough In the
.-.til.... nf Afr t.-instni? s nrlvate seoretarv
?,
tn dlctale a brief communication.
u miet0od this was a wlreles co-le
mesj.age to Berlin ndvWng the Oerman
government briefly of the outcome of'
u. conference and stating that n mote
detailed report would follow by cable,
i-n.r ries of censorship estab.
,,ed by the American Oovernment over
n.rrpM, .ommiiiilcatlon all such mcs-
pages must pas through the Depart-
The later communication sent
.... i,i,,..,,ir i.v nnide in r..,.,iir
v(ral' ,,,,,. , B,.t j U rii owing t.fl
u, roun.iahnut .ourse that has to be
t)p a ,a ',,,
, ,)th 10 Ami)a',ador and
the Sec-
.Inl,.
i-H ii ..
It I...1...1 ... ...... -.
ii i, ii in. ni,,i, n hi irnniiir iiunrirr"
that If the reply meet the wishes of the
American Oovernment
it will 1k made
public without delay.
1 1 V C' VA' AJ?VVn vTrMDO ' The Admiralty feel tnai im whi i
MAI AUMtjU Zitllri). lmioduce an entirely new character into
. warfare to which HngV-uul could not
LniisliiK Incline, in Ten I on View nBTre although It recognizes, If the re
Tb.it Tliey Are Wnr Craft. P"rt 1 true, that the Pnited State Ooy-
, eminent would still be maintaining Its
Wasiiimiton. Jan. 26. lint Oermany , mmaiiltminn principle. Hope I ex
dor not consider hcn-clf hound by her nrpmied that the wireless will prnvo un
cnrieHpondence with the I'nlted States on , J,ulhorlzed.
rui'i.iii . i.n1 nui inn in i.-ii,i,.i I. till. ...
tucking iirnied merchant vessels without
. warning vva learned lo-nlght, and I
ilimei tin"i i" n " i"i". in.u neuriiiaj
,,, lnt(M1,0 of ,,0 sc Department
to revise Its ruling with respect to the
i "H n"w'1 "erchantnien.
Tllllt HIICll H Cil.lllgC lit rilllllg I m
i . i...... .... i i ,
ihe Dcpaitiiient would tako In the Vase
.. the Verona, an Italian liner which m.
British Still
Besieged Army on Tigris
War Office Admits Error in Locating Scene of Recent
Fighting, Saying Aylmer's Force Is Not Six, but
Twenty-three Miles From Kut-el-Amara.
KOTTLED UP TROOPS DOOMED, LONDON FEARS
fptcinl Cable l)ertcli to Tur. Scv.
IONPoy, Jan. 26. Official ndmlsslon
to-day of a mistake made by the India
Office In It announcement 'to the House
of Common concerning the operation In
Mesopotamia changed the outlook for the
llrltlsh army In that theatre of wur from
cheerful to gloomy.
The relief force under Oen. Aylmer Is
not, as had been officially reported sev
eral times In the last ten Jays. lx
mile east of Kut.el-Amarn, but twenty
three mile below that position, where the
main Hrltlih army has been bottled up
i.y -the Turks for more than month.
T1(. rc,iff rorCP H(,R Mcver ,.Ios(.r t0
Ktit-ei-Amnra than about twenty miles,
(ten. A liner's relief forre Is Itol sen-
ar.led from the hard pressed main nrmy
under Oen. Townshend by only a few
hours march, us ha been the Impression
here since January 1", when the Wor
Office announced that Oen. Aylmer had
reached "Ksslan. six milts east of Kut-
el-AtmiTn." hut between the two forces
bj the strongly Intrenched Turkish army
, Hh(,k Kart , morp lhall twentJ-
lnM below Kut.
On the heels of tomWa, fission
in nirn DtotviiiiK
. . . ,n.,iv vi H.riin. i.-MI,
celved her to-day via Berlin, telling of
i nn unsuccessful llrltlsh attack on the
Turkish positions at Menlarle. In which
the attacker suffered "sppalllng losses."
Menlsrle Is twenty miles below Kut-el-
Amata. Tne nelier was expressed in some
quarters that It was this statement which
prompted to-day's correction by the India
Ofllre. The Turkish report follow :
The Hrltish made an attack near
Menlarle, but gave up after suffering
appalling Hsses. There were Inter
mittent nrtlllery duels near Kut-el-Amara.
On January IS Turkish troop made
a s-irprlse attack on the enemy's camp
wst nf Korna, killing numerous cne-
mi. ntld a great number of cattle.
HrltUh
Admit F.rror.
The official press bureau Issued the
following statement this afternoon:
Prom further communications the
recent fighting on the Tigris took place
twenty-three miles below Kut-el-Amaru,
and not as previously stated
eyen mile, frc
...TJ; mh. Uk.
seven miles from Kut.
arose through a mis-
understanding nt the India Office In
connection with the references In the
telegrams to the Ksslan position, which
Is known to tve been strongly In
trenched. There Is nothing further to
leport.
Oovernment officials made no effort
to-night to conceal their alarm over this
aspect of the situation not omy in .ies.i.
potamla, hut In the Caucasus and In
ersla, these three theatres of war being
in measute Interdependent,
tin .lanuarv 17 Secretary for India
U. S. REVERSES U BOAT
nnilflV DD1TATVI UfnDC
rULlW I I DIlllHlll IlLifUlO
Intercepted Wireless Indi
cates Siihniarines' Status
Will He liaised.
ici'.il fal'' Itenpateh la Tur Six.
Iaimion. Jan. 2S. The Interception of
a Herman wireU from New York, pur-
I . ......... . rim,, ami rnfiiLililf III! I
siniUIS 'l eui ,,,i.-. '
. i I-.,......., ..iinir.i.i n, iters.
litem ne irpsiii,,,.,..' ...,,,in. . ..........
' whose liarards In encountering aimed
I,,,,,.,.,, ahsolve them of the tie-
mere
IVWSltV
tv of search, provided the safety
nf e.tv nnd nnssencers 1 Insured
PRICE OF AUTOS GOING UP.
Chalmers I'lrsl 1i Take Step nnd
Oilier -Mr KoIIoit.
ClltCACO, Jan. 2B. Hugh Chalmers,
president or Chalmers Motor Oar Com
pany of Detroit, here attending the au
tomobile show, announced to-day an In
crease of $100 on the price of the Slx-tn
model beginning March 1.
Tho announcement created a senatlon
among maniiracturers, and a general
upward tendency In automobile prices I
predicted,
Chalmers gave as renson for Inciease
the fact that prices of raw material are
still rising and the company finds it Im
possible tn build cars conforming tn
their standard at anywhere near the
former production price.
Mr. Chalmers said the present an
nounced Increase might not be the last,
SAY THEY CURED CHOLERA.
Three- French Phjslelan llUkril
Live tn Teat New si-riini,
I'aiiis, Jan. ?. Information was
given out here to-day that i cure for
cholera, had been discovered by three
French physicians Dr. Nlcolls, Dr.
Conor nnd Dr. Consell attached to tho
Tunis branch or tho Pasteur Institute.
The cure Is In the rorm or n serum.
The three doctors risked their lives by.
Inoculating themselves wnn cnnier.'i
germs. ihey recovered niter tne use
of the new serum.
.
nrllnln Beeelarn V. K. Protest,
Inpos. Jan. :tt.-
at iigalnst "'' "'''" ' ",:
test
Ing with the enemy act ha ariivid
here and wa delivered Hi onto to tho
Foreign ortlce,
OltEAT IIRAK HI'KINO tYATKR.
ICe. th cih w( all Im atopparai bottloa,
At9
Far From
Chambeilain maib this statement In the
House of Commons:
"On January it 1 announced to the
House thnt the enemy had letlred to
KsHlau, a position six miles east of Kut- '
el-Amara."
Continuing, he asserted that on the .
12th the Turks npii.iti nlly advanced !
again to what is called In the l.lcsriim;
the Wndl pr!lm. On the 15th, how
ever, tho Turks, according to Stcictary
Chamberlain, vvern driven back iigaln to
the Ksslan position.
This represented a gain by the relief ,
force of llfty-slx miles In less than a
month nnd was hailed by the pre nnd
public ns ti remarkable feat It eeemed
to some military expert almost liurcdl- 1
hlo that the Turks should have allowed ,
the relief force to come so close to Kill- ,
el-Amara, ns tho raising of the siege i
there would mean a new drive on Hag- j
dad, Maps were seatclie.l vainly for
"Esslan, six miles cast of Kut-el-Amara."
In.lln (inter's lleport.
Hnwevir, nvery succeeding day
brought new official reports from the
India I Hike, all speaking of attacks "on
the Turkish p.ltlon" nnd counter ut-
tacks. . i
Although these official statements did
not specially mention "Ksslan" again, It
was naturally supposed that these op-
vvVdenlaie from the War .
Office regarding tho optimistic news-1
paper nccounts, all of which made
"Ksslan" the centre of the operations.
until this afternoon brought the revela- i
TRIBESMEN DRIVEN HACK
llrltlsh In i:u)i Infill')
Severe
l.iisst-s on rinitinl.
Speriat Cable ir."ifW In Tilt Scv.
Iinpo.v, Jan. Details nf
thf
British success In Kgypt last Siin.Hy,
which was announced by the War ofrcVc
on Monday, .ire contained In .i supple- jn return he demanded of neutrals th.
;?:nn,Hrrrt -"
theatre of war Is between Oen. Wallace's' Interfere with goods destined for 11.
forces and Seivoussl tribesmen who, llgeient countries accofdlng to the prin
coming from Tripoli. Invaded Kgypt and I clples tecognUed In the civil war.
.TeT'orexandlhr!, M'
British on Sunday broke up a !!enoussl , lowing statement:
camp. To-day's oftlcl.il leport follows; "A thorough Investigation by th
Oen. Wallaie's force, consisting of Government of the situation with re-
British, Dominion ..ml Indian troops,
moved forward Sunday morning In two
columns. A force of 4,e0n hnstll
Senoussl with three gun and four m.i
ch.ne guns engaged Cn. Wallaces
force, attfmptnig to surround It.
At noon the enemy was driven back
eighty tents and stores was burned.
Ten British and Dominion soldier and
eighteen Ii.Pans were killed and 274
were wounded, The enemv'. cisualtle
were ISO killed and f.00 v'voundod
'BRITAIN TELLS U. S.
: rFDMA MC MICIICD MJITI
, UJUUlfmnO miOUOL lllrtlL
Mil I,' IK Ail Infiifim llmil.-
" 1 '
Protest Airainst Seizures
From Uncr.
;ic. 1 utile Ieiuif1 in Tur .rx.
Lospos, Jan. All nd Interim te
ply to the American protei-ts against
linlft
lll'IC.
.. HI imdeistood that it wnl defend
Kngl.ind's action, cltlnc evidences of
j '' abiiw of the privilege of first
......,., ,i,,ii ,, -1,1.11k iu i ne I lllglie
conveiitlou for Just lllc.it Ion
I'reiich warships aie etiBiigcd in seiz -
ing malls In cooperation with the Brit
ish. Hereafter It Is to be clearly ilcm
onstrated that such action arreting
l.oi.tr.ilij nr.. tn .Inn. nf ..... ... i...
tl ' i"n-- - .in- jointly, j
i,ii,i-.. i, ...iKiii.ii. ..as i.een doing HUM
naval work for the Allies, receiving all
the odium of neutral. Thl disfavor
Is now to te shared by all the Allies
The Foreign Office to-day made pub
lic a list of the good found In postal
mall s-igs of ttie Central Power on
bo.ud the Dutch steamship l-'rlsla, out
ward bound ; Tubantla, Inward bound,
and Itvnd.im
In the Frisla' bape. were found rolled
gold chains, gold earrings, bracelets,
ling and bloodies, and drug, dies.
oleographs and machine needlen. The Tu
hantl.i, the (.latemcnt M)s, carried four'
sck of lubber In package marked i
"Samples without value," addressed to!
llnnibiiig from Brazil, and seven packets'
of wool In sample slzo from Pruguav,
to Berlin
Although examination of the Hn
dam bags h.i pot been completed,
the Foreign Office a jhat the in.. 1 1
cxamlmd mi far contained 10 per lent '
.......... . ........ un . ' . . I
... .. prop.igaii.ia j
"shcheh,e,,rioUw, tie Si
,.r.. i.n.l l,v- II... ...,.. u
conveyance of good to evade the meas
ute of restriction of trade taken by th., I
lu.. .so . .... i . ii.... .... ny no poKsn.ie
stietch cm II be contended that tn the
inajorily or the foregoing case ,e ar -
piled such immu-iily as the ,na.. en -
J '
DUTCH QUEEN HAS MUMPS.
Wllliclnilnn lliillKril In Suspend
I , , , .... ,
t 111 In I'I. Ilcitlnu.
Sprtialt nlile le.jmff, fnTiir six.
I Losipos-, Jan 21 - -Despatches rinm
Is siiffeilng from Ihe mump and has
been obliged in suspend her visit to
the flo.i.led nre.is
For nmirl.hlnr diet in enpp or sors hrnat
use nnrllrk'a Mailed Milk ArolU ubeHltuto.
Aiv. mm
NO BLOCKADE
NOW; BRITAIN
FEARS EFFECT
j Sir Edward (iivy Against
AntaoniziM"- Neutrals,
Jle Tells Commons.
To roxsnr FifAXt'K
AIMHTT.S. 1) MM AX 1)8
Defends Orders in Council
Says Every Precaution
Is Iicinjr Taken.
FOKKHLV OFFICE NO
1)1? A(J OX THE NAVY
Secretary Douhls Adjacent
Countries Ifesliip Car
goes to (.ermaiiy.
Sperul (able e;ifc to Tiis .i .
1iniion, jan, n The epeech of
f T'' 'T
l,iry, In the Houe of Commons this
niiernnon on the lilocxa.le policy or
Ureal Hrltaln dlsilled nil hope among
,, favorlnc a .Kclaratlo,, of a formal
iiiochiuie in i.eiinany tnat tne ii.ivern
mint would lake such action.
He said that the policy of the For
eign Olllco In the enforcement of the
Orders In Council had been and of tie-
j icsslty must be consistent with the rights
of neutrals. "We cannot take such ac
tion, ne said, "us would make me
grass grow in the streets nf neutrals."
Kar.l to shipments to Herman)' e-hows
that evci.vthlng possible Is being dons
without causing serious trmihlis with
' neutt.il."
If. he added, there was anv policy
I more pleasing to neutrals than the one
I at prifent In force the Oovernment
would be pleased In examine It nnd If It
( appeared .qu.ilh effective to consider lr.
I ,U h, ri,,K',.r'1 t(' lne , negotiation with
,ht H"""1 M"tH , ,1,H l"'l"" of
1 ,ho Oovernimnt In treating Americn
! l'r,"e"ls v "aid.
CntiNiiltlnir Prllilce.
"We are applying tile doctrine of con
tinuous voyage. We quite agree that we
want common action with our Allies, nnd
thnt I what we had with I-'rntice when
I the Order In Council was Issued:
"We aie going to answer the list
I I'nlted State note, but in the first In
stance In consultation with the French
Oovernment. That consultation is now
taking pla.e, and consiiltntion with
I other Allies w
ho are concerned In the
onrrvHinr out of our policy may follow
The long awaited debate In the Ilou
of Common was opened with a resolu
tion Introduced by Arthur Shirley Bcnn
and seconded by I.elle Scott
The resolution was n follows
That this .house, having noted the
volume of Imports Into neutral conn
trie bordering on enemy territory of
good essential to the enemy for the
prosecution of the wai, urge the
liou-riuncnt to enforce a effective a
blnck.i.lii ns possible without Intcrf. r
Ing with the imtnial requirements of
those neutral en untiles for Internal
consumption.
Mr. Henn In Introducing h' motion
.... ...
1 uiged the lioveiniiicnt III .nnjiin, jinn
with lb" P.ntente Allleji to declare lint
th- entire ci.-o.'caulc trade ff i.er-
, m.lliv sll.'liri e r -.i,-.. .,. i'i...
, n,. ,i i.i not think America would oh-
Hcct, lie said, because such action vioul.l
be In cnnformltc wnn tne principle
laid down by Lincoln In the civil war.
CunipciiNiil Ion lo Neutral.
Mr. Scott in seconding th motion
! recommended the declaration of n blnck
t a.le of nil the enemy countries by all
! the Allies, all good for neutral nun-
ttlrs In execs r iieiin.ii lequirenieiu
being pri-Mimtcil lo be Intended for the
enemy. He Matcl lli.it although Ore.it
Britain ran a icitaln ilk with the neii
ti.ll countries, there was never )rt
known a commercial lo that louhl nn
! be made go.sl n compensaunn. in
j Ord. r In CoiliuU of Match II eliould
be withdrawn, be delated, mi the
1 ground that it bad not given s.itisriutloii
and was ineffective
! In his defence of th" Oovernment and
I the Foicign OIIU'C Sir IMward Ore
' sal.l
"The statement th.it the navy was
' doing It utmost to pi event good from
reaching the rneiii), and that the For
eign OllU'e spoiled and undid Its w.nk
grossly unfair and untrue
The task of tne I'oreigu .mice re-
f-'ir.llnc the larger question is inii.-h
- ' ' . '"'"'"-'!'L l'1 "..r" .!"
tllllle W.l II" ......" "'.. n.iii..,n ..,
certaln good essential to the count iy
rtiollld be slopped
If the Foielgii i mice csiainisn lines
. . , ,. . , . .i.... i.i..u, .... .. ,.,... ..,.,,..
" . . " " ' ,.',.,; ,,e,,tV-l Tlio v niii'-t
, " , ?& $, Z vllelVde
' woub? inake' .he' gs 7
' the street of neutral.
"They must disci Imlnutn between the
viulou cl. . of vessel going through.
Tlint I exin tly what i nenig none If
a.tnpien ... iuui. i"n ...... nnu. u
nt make the precaution morn efTectlva
,M,t ,, ,10 old teclinlcil blo.'k,M..
If It were adopted, would confiscate mors
goods thiin Ihn present system Is doing
Th.a I not calculated to nuke, the
blockade any more agreeable to neutral
l"""""'
What leakage there has been could
not have been stopped altogether. What
ever system wa adopted, wn could nu
take over the administration of tieqlrii
countries ur prevent tha tuuJJlun
