-'
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
Cuenm
! NIGHT
EXTRA
re:
I YQL. H.-STO. 116
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, JANUARY 2 7, J!)l.
COMKtOIIT, 1010, Bt tllB PBBHO LtDOEB COMMrll.
I'KIOJS OJO) CUBM
I,
justice; says
i
WILSON, IS HIS
AIM IN MEXICO
tolls 2000 Clergymen in
"Hew York He Opposes
it. Oppression
WIELDS TO SUFFRAGISTS
ijeccivc3 Delegation, but Insists
states muse jjeciue
Issue
St
aw vrtTJTf inn. "7. '.Ttistlrn wlthntit
t 1 llix ImtiMnln rtf Prnollnut
Wtoon'a policy town'rd Mexico, he told
2000 clergymen nsscmuicu m uuiiii u
tf here at noon lotmy.
At without aggression," t!io President de-l.,r,.-.
j ,i,n,,r- ihnt lin wnn eommltt-d to
r- the policy of allowing Mexico to work
; tout her own nitaira.
" to an earnest expression of appreciation
i.of his CltortS 10 Keep lilts tummy ul
.,' vTTi - .. nlr1 v,A o rrfif Vinnnr in-
"10U nuvo ni ,..w e,.....- ..v. .w
lov." ho said. "I feci that you have un-
$ ii. tinnored mo as a man. In my efforts
" ' for peaco I have been constantly recog
5 ntzlns the spirit of America nncl hac
f'l --...i 4tiwMirli tin nnnvlntlnns of mv own.
" It Is hard to hold the balance when so
many passions nre invoivcu. uui i icei
f ..... I la iYin mlrnnqp nf thn npnnln til
ft. "".". .L.':"w',...
,ri- nainiain mm. uimmtu.
! "One must senrch for tho foundation of
" peace. I can find no better foundation
i than Justice without nggiosslon. Tho
f, ( greatest force In the world is charnctcr.
i It can be expressed on n national scale.
b America has always stood resolutely for
t". the- right of every peoplo to determine
P'lts own attitude toward its own affalis.
Pi am committed to tnko that attitude to
, :' ward our distressed neighbor to the south.
'. "Tho peace of Amerlcu," tho President
i added, "dopends upon tho attltudo of tho
; different races of which she Is mado up.
'. I have been deeply disturbed nt tho recru
it descence of religious antagonism. Th.it
j, '! a dangerous thins. 'lAvc and let llvo,'
Jy Is a very homely phrase, but Is tho very
!&, tails of existence."
m ' DISCUSSES PEACE AGAIN.
K-; Reverting onco more to tho subject of
peace, ine i-rcsiuein auiui
"I welcome tho acceptance of a. chal
lenge to fight. I knonr that the best pur
pose will prevail. Peace does not moan
inaction. Thcro may bo Infinite almost
violent activity. Peaco Is Inconsistent
yiUh tho loss of self-respect and abandon
ment of principles. Theso thlng3, I pray
7 ?'" "
5 ment ol
' a God. mi
ill vwe '
JUao n :
may never bo challenged.
believed in peace, but wo bclievo
righteousness ana liberty
In closlnc his address tho President
'kla:
nVe ata all snlrltunl kith and kin and
-building up ii family which will set an
lamplo to the -wot id."
The hall was llllcu to Its capacity witn
Continued on rnue Two, Column One
PROSECUTOR CHARGES
AUTO 'HOLD-UP' PLOT
I New Jersey Official Hopes to
Prove Existence of Conspir
acy to Mulct Motorists
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., Jan. 27.
Through tho nrrest yesterday of Con
itablea Lawrcnco Edwards and Charles
Palmer, of Elwood, a notorious "hold
dp" point on tho road to Atlantic City,
Charles Sumner Moore. County Prosecu
tor, expects to provo the existence of a
thoroughly organized conspiracy to prey
Upon automoblllsts.
Edwards and Palmer nro arcused of
having threatened to kill Uenjamln Mur
phy, another constable of tho South Jcr
My town, who Is said to have refused to
become a party to tho hold-up conspiracy
and threatened to cxposo It. Magistrate
Btrouse yesterday held the two consu
mes under ball for the Grand Jury.
Elwood Is eight miles below Hnmmon
n. on the White Iforso plko route from
Philadelphia to the shore, and 22 miles
jrom this city. Representative William
B. Vara and Senator James P. McNIchol
Sr?jamons tno hundreds who liavo been
WM up there and mulcted in tho name
or the law for alleged transgression of
speed regulations.
. THE WEATHER
w TWfl rlnva -nrlt limit n M(ant n,i HA
K:,ili effects: but, of course, It was foolish
, " "'i proDBDiy very wrong to print
Kso and do likewise and get pneumonia.
wumu po line to bo rich enough to have
M overcoats of 10 different weights to
u.i every posslDle Bliade ot unseasonable
feather, for when one has only one, It
imum temperatures. Thn flnetnra tell us
,!?" consollntr thing, that our descendants
"win be Immune from the sniffles and
rheums that flesh Is heir to in Phlladel
:1 .?" " are working up what they call
! resistance." ind this reslslnnra In III-
Kr M Is Inherited until, maybe, In the third
- .uurm Generation wo won't have to
ZtY about overcoats nt all; only "we"
Wj ...w VM1GI f O ill UIWBa UIOlMl.fc
Bi;, y,8- Another consoling thing they tell
few u.that It Is a bad thing to go to Palm
F'rn.V " Ior part he winter, as that
i. 7 , 8 S0V and prevents us irom
,-".".nnif mis said rcsfstance.
I ireclsely for this reason we never go,
FORECAST
Br''lera " C'?""J .rf unsettled fo-
." umt r riaay, wim prooaaiy ram;
."."" warm; genua eoucnertu
winfa
For details see page IS,
LOST AND FOUND
F, Uiuo"y0, ""J been maiio to the MercnanI
B1 lir r..nr'.l'.'ul"in' uf n'.i!fUtt"C v
w t ---iiimmB in pio.ee inercot.
S'B?'?.P CASK-WI11 tunv carrTC
t Kii.tlA? Will Bir' caiTlnK aai- tan
IS. r bi'' ca'- Inltlala W V. J. on clap.
Si 5!v Mturn to vr. i Jontw, Green's Ho
iglttiSjU. receive reward 7 No quest. akeJ.
W-Voung, black chow dog tery atoUty
jMlilt
tanda about 15 lni.Eea bleb: very
o?vJ. bck cojt. loaf la Bortneintern i
ftSt,L"y Liberal reward HIS Vine t
cart
cKln"rf"" , bU'.k allk bandbaa". conUlalnz
1 CfhiTiFi,tt'rP N- 3'7 'or tn (10) .harej ot
tKnim1' S'r.,h.1 unln Trust Cwnpany. iq
," v v.. ill. ir, Aiectft uhmhk vwa iua(.
-- ou aey between ista ana LAcuat aui
im i1"14 P' Keuatd It returned to U
ZS: djer Central
9lte Le.t uod round Ada cm i'use 1U
3
TURKS AND ARABS
FURIOUSLY POUND
BRITISH AT ADEN
20,000 Troops Defend "Gi
braltar of the East"
Menaced by Moslems
OF STRATEGIC VALUE
Important in Connection With
Suez Canal British at Kut
Deemed Doomed
IlF.Rr..tN', Jnn. 27.
Twenty thousand British troop defend
Inrr tho Arabian srnport of Aden arc
under heavy attack by combined Aiab
and Turkish forces and In a dnnRcrous
position, according to teports iceclcd
here today.
The CoIokho Vnlks ZeltutiK tecclved u
report from Calto, declniltiK that the
Hrltlsh linvo lost r.,000 killed and M.'iOO
wountled In flKhtlnB around Aden plnrr
the beitlnnlnc; of tho war. A wounded
Hrltlsh major is Klven ns nuthorlty for
tho statement that Arabian sbcikH have
Rone over to the Till k and that nearly
lOO.OOi) onunro mlb-s of Arabian territory,
formcily controllctl by tho Hrltlsh, has
been lost to them. The Arabians. It
was stated, nro uslns arms Riven them
by tho British
Hcrlln reported several weeks nBo that
a Turkish force bad diivcn the British
in upon Aden and was prepmlnn to nt
tack the city. This report was subne
tiuently denied by the Hrltlsh olllclals,
Aden Is stroiiRly fortllled and Is known
ns the "Gibraltar of the Knst."
Hecauso ot the position It holds with
reference to the Suci! Canal It Is u trad
ing centre of tho Breatest Importance.
Shore Mayor to Lead Fight for Jitneys
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., Jnn. 27.-Flfty
Jitneys will be usetl to carry Muor Wil
liam Kiddle and 100 prntrstiiiR business
men to Trenton on Monday next to op
pose the passage of the bill of Absembly
inan Kates, of Camden, designed to put
Jltneymcn out of business all over tho
State.
f vS?vKiKc&.fttt . s ;-- i
AiScWiW&tWW
Todav has been proclaimed Donation Day for Jews in America by
President Wilson. More than 1000 Jewish high school girls, and
several hundred women and business men in this city are doing their
share to raise funds to help their co-religionists in Europe Hero
are bhown two scenes in tho day's campaign.
THE GREAT POWDER ROMANCE;
A TRUE STORY OF STRONG
MEN AND THEIR MILLIONS
Marriage Fifty Years Ago of Lammot du Pont Started
Split in Family Now Arrayed Against Itself in Gi
gantic Civil Suit Family Trees and Factions
A familu dividedjigainst itself is battling in the courts of Delaware
for "war brides" valued at more than $50,000,000. One group of the aristo
cratic du Pont familu is defendant in the litigation, another group s com
vlainant. Brother is pitted against brother and sister against sister. A
familu "rf. beginning in a romance and lasting SO years, ts the striking
feature of this tale.
By HEJRY B. LOOS
Copyright, 1916.
ARTICLE III.
E I. du Pont do Nemours & Co. was
established on the banks of tho Brandy
wine, at Wilmington. Del., In UW by
Eleuthere Ireneo du Tont. He had three
eons. One of these. Alfred Victor du Pont,
became president of tho powder company
In 1S37 and retained that ofllce until 1850.
He In turn, had three sons, the eldest of
theso belnff Ii Irence du Pont, father of
Alfred I. du Pont, u director of tho corn-
Alfred
The second son of Alfred Victor du
Pont was Lammot du Pont, born In 1831
nnd killed In an explosion of tho com
pany's plant ill 1884. In 1S63 Lammot du
Pont murrled Mary Belln. The match
was regarded as a mesalliance.
Thero havo been other marriages in the
family which have caused dissension and
temporary estrangements, but there has
been none which has so effectively dl
vided the fumlly as this match of 50 years
alTo The children by this marrlago com
nrlse the nucleus about which the de
rendants in the present "du Pont suit"
nrTheaUJlary Belln referred to was a
daughter of Henry Belln. of Scranton.
Some membera of the du Pont family
believe that prior to coming to this coun
trv the Belln surname was Bellnskl.
Henry Belln was employed by the powder
company In the capacity of clerk.
The children by this marriage of Lam,
mot du Pont to Mary Belln Include three
nf the principal defendants In the present
UtlgaUoPn and a fourth, who Is the wife
nf a defendant. They are Pierre S. du
Pont, president of B. I. du Pont de
Semoura & Co.. Lammot du Pont. Irtnee
a u Pont nd Mrs. R, B. Morgan Car-penter
KAISER SPENDS 57TH BIRTHDAY
AT FRONT WITH HIS TROOPS
BERLIN, Jan. 37. Kaiser Wilhclm celebrated his 57th birthday
today in the field with his troops. Chancellor von Dethmann-IIollwcp,
who left Berlin late last night, is en route to nrmy headquarters to join
the Emperor,
At the Kaiser's special request the "elaborate celebrations of the
years preceding tho war were not duplicated today. Flags were hung
out in Berlin and other cities of the Empire, but the usual parades and
street demonstrations were lacking. In Berlin several entertainments
wore given, the proceeds going to a fund for Bed Cross work and for
the children of soldiers nt the front.
The Kaiser has now completely recovered from his recent illness,
according to reports received here, nnd spends the larger part of the
daylight hours in the field.
Man Sued by Wife Ends Life
WILMIN'OTON. p., .Inn. W.-tlonert
W. Mnloney, 30 years old, formerly of
CJeorsetown, Del., shot and killed him
self this marnlnfr nt tho residence of a
cousin here, where ho boarded. He hnd
been wotryliiK about family troubles, his
wife havlnp sued him for nonsupport.
Only yesteidnv he hail considered npply
InK for divorce. He was employed by
the KrlBcmonr Iron Company, KdBcinoor,
Oct.
JEWS RAISE FUND FOR WAR SUFFERERS
PI
There nre three other living children of
Lammot du Pont and JIury Belln who uro
closely allied with these defendants in the
litigation. They aro Mrs. II. Itodney
Sharp, who wan Isabella Mathieu du
Pont; Mrs. W. W. Laird, who was Miss
Mary A. Belln du Pont, and Mrs. Charles
Copeland, who was Miss Louisa d'Andelot
du Pont. Tho husbands of each of these
three, though not Implicated In tho suit,
have become allied with the du Pont Se
curities Company, principal defendant in
the proceedings.
The outstanding figure In the group
mentioned above Is Plerro S. du Pont,
president of the powder company. Ho and
his "associates," comprising 12 of the. Si
directors of the concern, aro accused of
betraying the Interests of the stock
holders of that J240,0CO,000 corporation by
acquiring oil of tho stockholdings of T.
Coleman du Pont through the du Pont
Securities Company at a time when It was
to the Interests of the powder company
itself to obtain this stock.
The holdings In question are 63,314
shares of common and 14,599 shares of
preferred stock In the powder company,
purchased for about (14,000,000 and now
worth approximately four times that
amount. The significance of this "deal"
lies in the fact that through tho acquisi
tion of this stock Pierre S. du Pont and
the other defendant directors of E. I.
du Pont de Nemours & Co. control more
than 40 per cent, of the voting stock of
the corporation.
Should the complainants be successful,
the stock sold by T. Coleman du Pont
would 'be turned over to the treasury of
-ConUoutd on Pace Four, Caiman Oao
City Takes Over Lot for Playground
Ito.id Viewers Cnntrell, Jr., Ortitz and
Scott filed a. report In Common I'tcns
Court No. .1 today on tho tnklnB by tho
city for park nnd playRround purposes
of tho grounds and buildings nt Hart
well lano nnd Ardlclgh Btrcct, Ed Ward,
and awarded tho owner of the premises,
Thomas Ouckcr, JKO. Tho property will
now be placed under the control of the
Hoard of Hectvntlon.
"CHILD OF GHEHO"
SELLS DOZEN KISSES
TO AID WAR VICTIMS
Girl Gets $50 From Broker in
Front of Stock Exchange
Building for Jewish
Relief Fund
ASK AID ALL OVER CITY
A pair of pretty lips earned more to
day for tho Jewish relief fund than any
other factor In the entire campaign.
It was all In the aid of charity, and it
hnppencd In front of the Stock Kxclmngo
building. Broad and Walnut streets, where
thousands of dollais, but few kisses, aro
exchanged every day. A broker ami a
beautiful young woman who was selling
tags for the lellef of the suffetlng Jews
nbroail were tho players In this comedy
dinma, which was part of tho grim
tragedy of war.
Six glrl3 stood in front of tho Stock
Kxclmngo all day today, "buttonholing"
tho rich bankers that went In and out.
"I'll give you $5 for a kiss," said ono
rich banker to one nf tho six girls the
prettiest one, of coui'he.
Tho girl's niiswor w,ih quick.
"I don't sell my kisses that way," she
said demurely. "I sell no less than ii
dozen kisses nt a time."
Tho banker hesitated. She went on:
"I'll reduce tho rnto, though. I'll sell
you a dozen kisses for 50, 310 less than
tho regular price."
Tho girl had tho kisses In n moment.
Continued on I'ukc Tbrrr, Column One
SAFE-CRACKER SHUNS
GOVERNMENT FUNDS
Takes Ridge Avenue Druggist's
$50 and Razors, but Lays
$500 Aside
It Is wrong to rob the United States
Government, but It is all right to rob a
drug store, according to the reasoning of
a thief who opened a bafe In tho drug
store of Edward S. Powers, at tho inter
section of Mt. Vernon street. Ridge ave
nue and 13th street, early today. Ho
took eight safety razors and about $50
from the store cash, but left behind J 100
In stamps, $100 in cash, and valuable
booKs, which belonged to tho subpostofhee
In the store.
When Raymond Hawthorne, 1719 Mt.
Vernon street, a clerk, arrived ut the
store this morning, he found a brand
new padlock on the Ridge avenue door.
This ho was obliged to tile open. Then
be found tho door of the safe open, and
the stamps and proceeds from the sale
of stamps nil carefully laid out on the
counter, but the sufety razors and store
funds gone.
Efforts had evidently been made to
dynamite the safe or to pry It open. After
these had failed the thief evidently went
to work patiently to solve the combina
tion, and twirled It till he did so. Po
licemen on the beat saw no sign of
thieves last night, they say, although the
safe was directly under a gas light and
could have been seen from the street.
Detective Doyle, or City Hall, who U
Investigating the case, believes the "job"
was done either by a man that knew the
combination or who was familiar with
the workings of the store. It la expected
that an arrest will be made soon. This
is the lxth time the store has been
nibbed within two years,
ARMY MEN WHO
INVADED MEXICO
WILL BE TRIED
Three Lieutenants Under
Arrest for Crossing River
to Aid Soldiers
FOUR OF SQUAD DROWNED
U. S. to Inform Cnrrnnzn Act
of Oflicers Is Not
Condoned
imOWNSVILLE, Tex., Jan. 27.
Privates William C. AVIieclcr and
HitfRO Peterson, of the ith United
States Field Artillery, who were cap
tured by Mexicans yesterday after
they had swam across the Kio Grnnde,
were rescued today by Currauza sol
diers and turned over to the Amer
ican military authorities. Neither of
the men had been harmed by their
captors.
WASHINGTON, Jan 27Spcrctarv of
Stntc Lansing todav (linracterii'od the In
vasion of Mexico near l'togieso, Te
yesterday by n small body of American
Hoops as a "hostile act." The fact that
the American party was In pursuit of
MPNlcan iMndltH who had seized two
American soldiers does not detract fiom
the seriousness of the case, ho stntcd.
It ns Indicated by olllclnH that the
threci olilcers who led tho American ox-
Wfildraii lll be tried" bv court-martial
nt once.
OtIlcialM were today lonsldcrlng sending
word to the rairnnzii Government that
tho action of the American party In cross
ing the bonier would not be condoned
by this fioveinment. They wanted to
m.ilo It plain to the bend of the Mexican
Government that the lenders ot tho ex
pedition would be punished.
Secretary of War Gairlson today gave
out tho following dispatch from ficnertil
Kunston at Hrounsvlllo in connection with
tho case:
"Wo have received the following report
from Major Anderson, 12th Cavalry, from
subdlstrlct Mercedes, timed 8 p. m. :
'"Four men, Hattery D, Uh Field Ar
tillery, swam aetoss the Itlo Orantlo
lUillo stripped In bathing In the liver
at Progreso about 3. SO p. m. today. Two
wcro made prisoners by thico Mexicans
with rifles and taken bade Into Intel lor
from river. Other two men from buttery
swam back; somo to or three shots
llred nt them whllo returning. Lieuten
ant J. D. Mort. commanding battery, with
jjjBjuiunamsPevtoj nnjlWpbjrnB,.rfyJtbJ,
nUUtlt 1 Illt'll UL LHlllL'iy 1W111 UIIC ill.lll Ut
the 12th Cavalry, crossed river about
three-tpiarters of an hour later, uent
about three-quarters of a mile back Into
tho Interior from river, searched two
houses, did not find eomr.ides. They were
fired upon 10 or 12 times by men in brush.
They remained on other side about one
hour. When they leturncd tho crossing
was covered by our men on bank of this
sldo, who tired some 200 shots. None of
our men killed or wounded.
" 'The following men were drowned
whllo swimming to tho other side:
" "Sergennt Owen Clements, Corporal
Michael F. King, Privato Hairy A. Rhode,
all threo of Battery P. Ith Field Artillery,
and Private Charles D. Wilton-nest,
Troop A, 12th Cavalry.
" 'All bodies were carried away by
swift, muddy cuirent nnd not yet recov
ered. Seni cb being made.
" 'Tho following men still In hands of
Mexicans on other sldo:
" 'Privato William C. Wheeler, Privato
Hlggo Peterson, Uattcry D, -Ith Field Ar
tillery.' "Colonel Illocksom has oidercd Lieu
tenants Mort, Peyton nnd Wnldron to bo
placed In arrest, and Captain Mcftioom,
2Mb Infnntry, has been placed In enm
mnntl of camp. I have directed Colonel
Plummer, 2Stli Infantry, to hend ono of
his field officers to Investigate. Mr. Garza,
Mexican Consul, hits been Informed of
o.xnct contents of Major Anderson's tele
gram and of arrest of threo officers con
cerned. Ho hna gono to Mntamoras to
Inform commanding general thero and
to ask that immediate penrch bo made
for Privates Wheeler ami Peterson. Mex
icans on other sldo weio not In uniform."
Lynett Not a Candidate for Senator
.SCKANTON. Pa., Jan. 27.-H. J. Lynett.
editor nnd publisher of Pcranton Times,
declines to stand as candidate for tho
Democratic nomination for United Htntes
Senator. Tho Times editorially buys tho
Democrats should unlto on Secretury of
Commerce and Labor W. II. Wilson to
opposo Philander C. Knox.
FRANCESCO GIUSEPPE
SAREBBEM0RIB0ND0
Gli Austriaci Operano con Suc-
cesso Parzialo un Attacco
sulla Prima Linea di
Cadorna
Telegrnmml gluntl ad un alto prelato
del Vaticano dlcono che I'lrriperatore
Fiencesco Giuseppe d'Austrla o' stato
vlttima dl un colpo apoplcttlco cd e'
merlbondo-
lerl sera 11 ro Vittorio Emmanuelo e'
partlto dl nuovo alia volta della fronto
itallana. SI crede die nessun cambla
mento si avra' nella polltlca dell'Italla dl
fronte agll avvcnlmentl del Ualcnnl, al
meno per II momento. I montenegrlnl
che saranno sfuggitl agll austriaci sa
ranno rlorganlzzatl con le truppe serbe.
Iy'ultlmo rapporto del goncralo Cadorna
annuncla che gll austriaci, attaccando
con forze superior! e nella densa nebbla,
rlusclrono lunedl' sera a prendcre alcunl
trattl dl trtncee nella zona dl Oslavia,
probabllmente nella stessa zona dol tor
rente Pumlco dove un altro attacco aus
trlaco dl pochl gtornt fa uveva portata 11
nemlco ad Impossessarsl per poco tempo
dl alcuno trlnceo Itallane. IS' da credere
che 11 generate Cadorna attaochera' gll
austriaci sublto, prima che essl consoll
dlno le loro nuove poslzlonl.
Altrove sul fronte Itallano si sono avutl
duelll dl artlgllerla. e nella valle del
l'Aalge anche attacchl dl fanterla aus
trlaca suite poslzlonl Itallane ottorno a
Mori, attacchl che furono resplntL
(Leggcre in 4a pagina le ultlme e plu'
dettagllate notlzlo sulla guerra, in Itallano.).
QUICK
ROOSEVELT'S COUSIN COMMITS SUICIDE
NEW YOBK, Jan. 27. Eugene Vnn Schaik, millionaire pres
ident of the Knickerbocker Oil and Qua Company nnd cousin of
Colonel Roosevelt, committed suicide nt his home, 30 East 42d street,
this afternoon. Ho was GO years old.
SOLDIERS CAPTURED ON BORDER RETURNED
BROWNSVILLE, Tcx Jan. 27. The two American soldiers,
who awaiu acrota the Rio Graildo nnd were captured by armed Mex
icans late yctlerday, were delivered to tho United States military
authorities, thiu afternoon. They were uuharmed.
NINE MONTHS FOR WOMAN WHO SHOT SWEETHEART
Ciuollnu CoUzonskl was sentenced to servo nine months in tho. County
Prison tmlny by .tiidgo Audenrlud utter sho lind boon convicted of shooting;
Kdw-nrtl Tnihoncr, n former sweetheart, of Jefferson street near Front,' nt 7th
nntl ilutlomvood streets, December B. Although shot through tho stomach,
Tinhencr showed rcmarkublo vitality nml after being; in tho hospital nearly
six weeks jcrovcred sufficiently to appear today before tho Jury In Quarter
Sessions Court. I to seemed to have recovered fully from wounds that probably
would havo resulted In tho death of a man of ordinary endurance.
B. & O. WILL LIFT CORN EMBARGO TOMORROW
13AI.TIM01U3, Jan. 27. The embargo on corn from points on tho Baltlmoro
nntl Ohio and the Kaltlmorc and Ohio Southwestern rnlltoads for export through
Iljltlmiii'o will bo removed tomorrow, January "S, according- to n notice' Issued
i tnilnv at thu irenernl offices of tho coinntinv. This action, supplementing; tho
p.u.tlal ,cmVal of the embargo on
! Baltimore to all shipments of export
and Ohio line.
JUDGE THOMPSON TO HEAR DU PONT SUIT
Judge J. W. Thompson, of the United States District Court for Penn
sylvania, was today usslgned by Judge Bufflngton to sit in tho suit Instituted
against tho du Pont Securities Company. Tho suit Is brought by one branch of
tho du Pont family.
STATE HIGHWAY ENGINEER RESIGNS
John T. Gephnrt, Jr., engineer of construction of tho State Highway De
partment, today tendered his resignation to Chlrf Knglneer W. D. Uhlcr, who
accepted It, Mr. Ocphart resigned to accept tho position of consulting engineer
for Fayette County.
The appointment was announced at the State Highway Department at
Harrisburg of Julius Adler, of Philadelphia, ns engineer of tests of tho depart
ment. Mr. Adler litis been connected with tho highway department of tho city
of Philadelphia ns assistant engineer in chargo of plant Inspection. Mr. Gephart
has been connected with the State Highway Department since September, 1905.
, ., .. CITY RECEIVES
The amount paid into the City Treasury during the week ending last night
was $150,176.75. Payments for that period aggregated ?(J0C,7Gl.n9, leaving- a
balanco of $10,240,213.52 on deposit In various banks and trust companies.
RALSTON'S SUCCESSOR NOT CONSIDERED
A successor to Judge Bobert Ilnlston, who died on Saturday, has not beem
considered, Governor Hrumbaugh said today in answer to questions ns to wliecr
ho would likely appoint one. "I havo not given this matter any thought," he;
explained, "nnd I do not expect to for several weeks." Director of Public Safety
William H. Wilson, George Henderson nnd others havo been mentioned for thd
place. Tho Governor declined also to discuss appointments of a flro marshal
nml other places In tho Stato service.
ITALY'S BALKAN
Tho situation In tho Unlkan.s was
King Victor Kmnnuel was here, but
night and It Is understood that no chnngo In Italy's policy Is to bo announced t
present. Tho situation with reference
Impossible for Itnly to take any steps at
BELGIUM EAGER FOR PEACE, SWISS HINT
BKBLIN, Jan. 27. Hints thnt Belgium Is anxious to make peaco with Ger
many aro given In an article published by tho Xouo Zurlcher Zeitung anrj
given out here today by tho Overseas News Agency. l
Tho article says that tho new Ilelgian Minister, M. Boyenz, before tho war
was well acquainted with German statesmen and was persona grata to Bmpcrop
VllIinm. It then mentioned tho recent speech of Camillo Huysman, Belglag
deputy for Brussels, nt Arnheim, Holland, In which ho said that It was uselosat
for Belgium to continue lighting, slnco It hud nlrcady been proved Impossible:
to defeat Germany.
Tho Zeltung also btntes that letters written by Belgian soldiers contain
signs that they aro weary of tho war.
ALBANY VISITED BY $250,000 FIRE
ALBANY, Jnn. 27. Fire early todny completely destroyed Odd Fellows'
Tomplo and threo other buildings in tho heart of tho business district. The
loss was $2.10,000. Threo firemen wcro slightly Injured, being caught by falling
walls nnd buck drafts. Tho fire started In oils in an automobile, storehouso,
destroying moro than 100 machines.
CHINESE REBELS ROUTED IN YUAN-NAN PROVINCE
PEKIN, Jan. 27. Government troops havo Inflicted a severe -defeat upon
tho Chinese rebels of Vunn-Nan province, tho Vv'ur Office announced today.
Tho battle took plnco on tho western border of Yau-Nan, where the. rebels
had concentrated largo forces. The Government forces engaged In the conflict
numbered 60,000 men. Tho rebels were completely routed.
BRITAIN MAY BAR FILMS AND TAX LUXURIES
LONDON, Jan. 27. It Is reported that tho Government Commltteo on War
economics has recommended a prohibition against Importation of cinema Alms
and that tho Government will adopt tho idea. This would also cover cinema
blanks, so that British producers who rely for blanks entirely on America would
bo compelled to buspend operations. A prohibitive tax on imported luxuries as
a means of reducing Imports and avoiding further depreciation In exchange
was urged by Sir Felix Schuster, president of the Institute, of Bankers, In an
address to hankers yesterday. Kven If the cost of living should bo increased.
ho said, it would ho nothing compared
rate against England.
BRITISH FLEET READY FOR FOE'S BIG GUNS
LONDON. Jan. 27. A. J. Balfour, First Lord of tho Admiralty, stated In
tho House of Commons that tho British Government had no evidence that
Germany possossed 17-inch guns, but that It was not Impossible, "As regards
tho preparedness of tho British navy." Mr. Balfour continued, '! can only Bay
that the successive Lords of tho Admiralty havo most anxiously considered
the methods by which the building resources of this country can best bo used.
Spoaklng broadly, It may be said that every dockyard, public or private, at homo
or In tho Mediterranean, Is boing used, either for new constructions or tor re
pairing requirements of ourselves and our allies."
GALES DELAY FORD PARTY'S RETURN
ABOARD STEAMSHIP ROTTERDAM (by wireless), Jnn. 27. The Rotter
dam, after fighting tremendous seas (or threo days, reached better weather
yestorday. Most of, tho 70 returning- members of the Ford peace expadltlon,
which left Now York on the Oscar II In Docernber to make the warring nations
stop lighting, have suffered severely from seasickness, A big wave on Sunday
night smashed through the portholes and flooded the saloon. Tho captain ex
pects to jeach New; York by Sunday, The ship -was iue Friday,
NEWS
grain on January 17, opens tho port of
grain from local points to tho Baltlmoro
$180,170.75 IN WEEK
POLICY UNCHANGED
tho subject of long conferences while
while
Jnsj
tho Italian ruler left for tho front
to Montenegro Is such that It will b
present.
to a serious movement In tho exchangi
i
r
