Subscribers
of The Daily Onte
City are served the fall Leased
Wire Service of the United
Press Associations.
VOL. 122. NO. 23.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
BROWNSVILLE, Texas, Jan. 27.—
Mexican and American military offi
cials were making every effort today
to prevent open clashes between Unit
ed States and Carranzista troons as
the result of four American soldiers
losing their lives late yesterday in
an attempt to rescue two others who
had been captured by Mexicans. The
soldiers were drowned while trying
to swim the Rio Grande.
The dead are:
SERGEANT OWEN L. CLEM
ENTS.
CORPORAL MICHAEL F. KING.
PRIVATE HARRY A. RHODfJ.
PRIVATE CHARLES D. WILTEN
BEST.
Four soldiers
qt
a detachment of
the fourth field artillery, stationed at
Progreso, twenty-seven miles abogcg,
here, were bathing In the river lata
yesterday when a band of Mexicans
appeared on the opposite bank and
ordered them to cross over. T*(i.
obeyed, leaving their clothes on this
side. The other two dived and es
caped.
A relief party was organized by
fourteen soldiers. They swam the
Rio Grande under a cross fire by
Mexicans and Americana, but none
was injured. They searched two
houses on the Mexican side, but
found no traces of the privates, Wil
liam C. Wheeler and Blago Pederson,
the men captured by the Mexicans.
On their return they were again fired
on by Mexicans.
Major General Funston last night
ordered Lieutenants Mort, Payton and
Waldron of battery D. Fourth field ar
tillery, placed under arrest because
of their alleged participation in the
invasion of Mexican soil.
Colonel Quintinilla, Carranza com
mandant at Matamoras, in the ab
sence of General Ricaut on receipt
of a report from Funston, immediately
telegraphed the Carranza command
ant at Rio Bravo, nine miles south of
Progreso, to send a detachment of
troops to Wheeler's and Pederson's
rescue. Fuston is reported to have
said that the responsibility for the
incident apparently rested on the
American side as be had given strict
est orders for no soldier to cross the
boundary under any circumstances.
*&•••• -The Official Report.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 27.—Secre
tary of War Garrison today gave out
the following dispatch from General
Funston at Brownsville:
"We have received the following
report from Major Anderson, Twelfth
cavalry, from Sub-District Mercedes,
timed 8 p. m,:
'Four men, battery D, fourth field
artillery, swam across the Rio Grande
while stripped in bathing In the river
WOMAN BURGLAR SHOT
TO
8et a Trap for Robber After
House Had Been Entered
Three Times.
tUnited Press Leased Wire Service]
ST. LOUIS. Mo.. Jan. 27.—Mrs.
Jennie Thorn-burg was still in
a
y*
ne'®^lor' who
8
me'
*°bber taking clothing in each
-jt
'mil
Were Swimming Across the Stream to Rescue
Two of Their Comrades, Captured
by Mexican Band.
NOT FIND THE
Officers Who Led Their Men Across the Bor
der, Have Been Placed Under Arrest
by Funston.
at
FLURRY ON THE
ME Ml
Por*r«„«
»hnnt 9*n
at rorgreso, about 3:30 p. m. today. ..
Mexicans with rifles, and taken bacK|,
er two men from battery swam back 77*]?, "Y *.
tenants Peyton and Waldron,
turned, the crossing was covered by
ah. mAn 41... ii.M% a#
our men on (he bank of
iired
The following men still in the
hands of Mexicans on the other side: I
'Private William C. Wheeler, Pri-1
vate Blggo Peterson, battery D, fourth
field artillery.'
formed of exact contents of Major An-
derson's telegram and of the arrest of,
the three officers concerned. He has
gone to Matamoras to inform the com-1
mandlng general there and to ask that'
immediate search be made for Pri
vates Wheeler and Peterson. The
Mexicans on the other side were not!
in uniform." I
Funston Makes Report. I
WASHINGTON, Jan. 27.—The war!
department today received a dispatch
from General Funston on the border
tending to confirm the report that two
American soldiers were captured by
armed Mexicans and four others!
drowned in the Rio Grande when they
were fired upon while swimming. Sec-
re*ar?
Mrs. Thornburg decided the burglar
was familiar with the movements of
the family. Last night she left the
house through a front door ATter.
climbed thro
cell
-a said Mrs. Thornburg today, "I heard
was killed last climb through. I could ^not distln-
climbed through a win-jgtiish the intruders sex. As the form
Jhornburg home on the walked through the front room, I nrea
has been looted twice since, the car, will not reach the city until late
cm?,
today.
I
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
LONDON, Jan. -A joint noto
signed by all thc ^r ,-s, answering the
latest protests
4
the United States
and Sweden attlng forth the al
lies* position .rd neutral trade for
I the period war Is in contempla-
tl0"-
!t
,?,* ,p"ed
1
t°da^
il the entente powers in
^ration of policy, the al
ts plan to make an Im-
By uniy
a single.
lied dlF'
pressiv. owlng of unified purpose
that wlfMnfluence all action by neu
tral*. The first official hint of such a
program was dropped by Sir Edward
Grey In his speech on the proposed
blockade yesterday.
The English press today unanimous
ly applauded the plain intimation from
the government that it intends to deal
firmly with the United States In an
swering the latest protest against
British trade regulations. The news
papers at the same time pointed out
that the British foreign minister gave
assurance that interests of neutrals
are not being ignored by the allies in
prosecuting the war. They supported
Grey's contention that England could
ev®r»
Jeopardizing the success of the allies. :lon "\rK
On the question of blockade, how-
editorial utterances were widely
Thl
Two were made prisoners by three hemlnd for «T morklrf? 1
0
Yle,~®
a
Into Mifi intorinr from th« river Oth- & attacked the government In editorial !fou years oia, arove up
into tne interior irom tne river, otn
todav
a
anmA tvn or thmn niinffl at ttetion of continuing the campaign for
easu
some two or three shots fifed at I
them while returning lieutenant E more effective measures despite Grey's
with:16Th®
er side about an hour. When they re-incendiaries
are
ntjn
thiB
gome
two 4umdeed-=ehetp,-NenB
of our men killed or wounded.
'The following men were drowned
while swimming t6 the other side
Sargeant Owen Clements, Corporal
Michael P. King, Private Harry
Bbode these three men are of bat
tery D, fourth field artillery.
'Private Charles D. Wilton-Best,
troop A, twelfth cavalry.
'All bodies were carried away by
swift muddy current and not yet re
covered. Search being made.
®®c
a
tnem wnne returning^ Lieutenant j. ±o. mlnistrv in 'were outside the railing, to stand
Mort, commanding battery, with Lieu- if1""ouncement
tnnat
to 8tand
P*
1'
for th
about fourteen man of the hatterv and government's supporters on the up tneir nanas pna airectea tne
one maiT of The tVel1t^ cavalry hand, led by the b^ily News and teller and cashier to open the
crossed the river about three^juarters D«l'y Chronicle, warmly applauded stahl was in his office and was
of an hour later,*went about three-,the decision of the government to !f J" his office and was
auarters of a mil© back into the In-
8tecr
terior from river, searched two.houses £°,v® Great Britain with the United -^hite\h^tandita^oHBSd
but did not find comrades. They were .States and other neutrals. of
flred. upon ten or twelve times by men "The foreign minister's statement is
in brush. They remained on the oth- A"*' crushinq reply to the wild
side who if1® whole world to arms against Great
Zeppelins
made
"The Increase In
he would give
Press reports of the incident, offl-
(Continued on page 2.)
(Continued on page 2.)
I^enry
out the text of the 'lack of "faith." According to his own nature of the illness never was made
Several of the correspondents
Mm
•JSi
ity had been burglarized recently. g^'^nce "treatment.'6 Ford'"himself" at t£e P^c7 debates wa"s*T small'"mnC ,tl^'Rev."
QUt8et had unbounded falth in his ter.
whnt Ford
a
n.tont
'°"ow'nB the shooting of'scraping sound at the front window. !t,n|ting the members' minds on one his early hopes-only on faith. Mmme. Ford for more than ten minutes at
Margaret McWilliams, her1 next Soon it was raised and I saw a form thought of peace" and continual- Kosika Schwimmer declared she had time and had had practically no in
Biirh*
ly.
Qf th1s
erg trave]ed
shot f'j. ilorn said she once. It vanished and neutral country, on the edge of the I fort as the one undertaken by Ford .gateship at Christiania and continue I
to intruder after setting a trap front veranda and fired two more sh 3
z0ne 0
robh.j •»,* "cm. ?1C» a if-6'ion an.! Whether this plan would have sue-'chancellories of certain of the warrins Ibis expense. Mrs. Inez Miihol
Coronor
malice after the flnt day
KEOKUK, IOWA THURSDAY, JAN. 27, 1916
Made Escape m_A»tomobilo
With Several Thousand
Dollars in
Cash.
IN CHICAGO, OF COURSE
Wave of Banditry Has Swept That
City for Months and Police
Seem Unable to Pre­
vent It.
LUnlted Press Leased Wire Service.]
CHICAGO, Jan. 27.—Four boy ban-
st"ck UP
i*13'.000.
and declared their in lto
cashier and thirty
P^5S0?8'1,
Including Jake Stahl,
not yield to the United States without ,fonner to8®1**1! star, in th0 Washing-j French positions on a front of from
ton Park National bank today and 500 to 600 yards In the Artois, the war
000 and office announced this afternoon.
DanK
wlth. be^e°D, ?1~
c?sh:
.„ dent of the bank.
The
Stahl Is vlce
the bank in a small
Jn 'nhortlv before oVlock Th«v
levity
playing with the peril of bringing'
mUn th• utiini* wapm tft ar*rv*c anfiintt nanas o\er nvs nead willingly.
"I.was taking no p^annes,"/he said.
"I Just went out wfl
Mid tfle New*,"
OPPOSE CONSCRIPTION.
BRISTOL, England, Jan. 2f— Reso-
The resolutions declared
I'clock.
ed the six or
{t5U ,:l Blx or
»t ministry [n-
pat" for the present.
They warn-
seven customers who
forced aI1 thfi nIoTPR fn
present, ^lduo their hands and d^ectedtbe
clear of a course that might In- with the rest
who with #hameful
emPJ°yes
were
visited the city and months. Policemen have been shot'condition is critical.
Respite the statement at- expected in any community, and
ttle ollt of the trenches by tl
their escape unharmed. jdown in busy streets, hundreds of It was rumored this afternoon that
porcj's peace mission failed for visors. He was ill, it was stated. The
offensive protec- pedestrians robbed and stores and ithe vaticgn has received a report that
[banks as well as private residences ithe Austrian emperor is sinking rapid
I plundered In broad day light.
iy.
F~-fs Peace Plan Failed
Through Lack of Faith
[By Chas. P. Stewart, United Press Ford speedily took to his cabin and party's reception and for co-operation
Staff Correspondent.] 'for more than half the trip was hard-i in peace work, still lay in the Christ
THEJ HAGUE, Jan. 15. (By mail.)— ly seen by any but his closest ad-
statement, faith was Ford's sole stock ,clear. Several of the correspondents Kchkimmer assert that she had thus
when he started. He had not enough whom the expedition's managing com- tried to deceive Ford concerning the .'
la few exceptions appear to have had the party did see the patient for a dinavia. ')rosram
ibut little. fsw minutes the night before the Oscar Mmme. Schkimmer boasted that
Those of the party who really Wish- Ill's arrival at •Cliristiania. It is true she had a "dossier" of every per-
•ed the expedition well, were so bitter- that he looked like a sick man then, son on the ship and that not a,!1®
t, trihuted to him that he intended to when the party landed at Christiania ed his own grounds for complaint breakfast -(1
"Shortly after entering the house, cotild "make a dent" by gathering Jzation—that he had lost hope. |siderabie voice In directing its po!-
adding to the volume and intensity written assurances from officials of all liluence.
or
thought as he and his crusad- the neutral Kuropean governments! Herm
®l iwrJa Mvrtin ceeded under favorable circumstances nations "on both sides" that they were iand Botssevain resigned from the par-
.two out
TYI^ A TU TV TVTTT'Tr'T-T'Dr^T? ily hated that an effort was made to but his malady seemed rather of the word was said which she did not. *ns stumping campaign tor aeiense addressed a rejoinder to the presi
LlHiA 111 DI JNrilbiljDUK Imaroon a number of them at the first spirit than the body. know of almost immediately. There be Jannched
TO
robbed
Just went out with the rest of
the help and held up my hands. It
was a
lutions opposing conscription In anyib0J£
form were adopted by an overwhelm- Municipal Judge Pry was one of the
Ing majority at today's session of the I customers in the bank at the time,
national labor conference of dele-jHis hands were promptly elevated,
gates, representing more than 2,000,-' The bandits warned those Inside
000 workers. [the bank to remain quiet while they
"compul-
sory military service to be contrary street. A. W. MlcCauloy, one of the
to the spirit of British democracy and ^tellers. Jumped in a machine that was
full of danger to the liberties of the outside the bank and chased the
British people.'' Ismail car for a mile, but it disappear-1
,ed in a mass of traffic.
EXPECTING AIR RAIDS. The bandits all wore masks, which
LONDON, Jan. 27.—Raids by Zep- they donned in the street just as the
pelins and the new giant Fokker aero-.car reached the bank. The automo-
"Colonel Blockson has ordered Lieu- planes, are expected by the London .bile had no license number.
tenants Mort, Peyton and Waldron to authorities in the near future, It was I The bank at 760 East Sixty-third I
be placed under arrest and Captain indicated today by a statement pub- street, is in one of the most populous
McBroom, twenty-eighth infantry, has |jshed in the newspapers. The mun- sections of the south side, and has LUnited Press Leased Wire Service.]
been placed in command of the camp. |c|pa| authorities at the same time been known for several years as "Jake ROME, Jan. 27.—Reports received
I have directed Colonel Piummer, served notice that London Is better Ktahl's bank." The robbery came as jby diplomats here today said that Em
Twenty-eighth Infantry, to send one of p^pa,.^ to meet attacks from the another incident in the wave of ban-jperor Franz Josef of Austria suffered
his field offiicers to investigate. Mr. sky than It was several months ago dltry that has swept Chicago for two strokes of apoplexy and that his
Garza, Mexican consul, has been in-when
repiar wild and wooly western
UP-".
ran to their car and fled down the
®&fe Cit
Presi"
bandits, none of whom appear-
2 "led to be over 20 years old drove UD
the
bank in a small automobile,
lEJuropean port touched. Ford's plan,] Ford moved and spoke like a person |were many indications that this jal w* i«nn cprrp.
ias nearly as it is possible to put so.in a semi-trance. He seemed almost was no idle boast. In throw- "r -.orv I
.. 'intangible a thing on paper, was to completely broken. Early in the voy- ing the expedition upon the newspaper
Other houses In the immediate vlcln- warring nations mental age he declared that squabbling among correspondents' mercy at Stockholm, accompanied the ... cris.s was ended by the intervention
l*w Via «4 hAAn Km ixrl ronontlv
.. TnP nflfiV Wfl
from neutral country to that they would welcome such an ef-'Jewish editor, pave up his peace del
war. or even in the zone itself, and from men in high positions at the the journey merely as a chsonicler.
Thp 'Si# 1°TaV^ can't be stated, because the peace at least not unfriendly to the plan, jty at Stockholm because she felt, she
to conn^»L I Jf hnHrirenareti delegates failed to concentrate on IThe second day of the party's stay in .said, all attempts at democratic con- lot
•rou* woman with num- lings Mrs. McWUl a thoughts of pcace. The Oscar II's voy- .Christiania Premier Knudsen of Nor- trol of the party had been abandoned.,^f-sl so largely the human element, tures and not by congress.
•rous burglaries in the neighborhood A year later she l8 dl» «e from New York to Christiania was Iway denied the-truth of her state- tJovernor Hanna of North Dakota. President Wilson in to put tnat far- The president was nnally smoked
,knM*ihlA nrtt en 11 Vl hfinnit.A nf I 'wont VnTTlorftlla r*ahloa mna?irat in 1- TirjifpcGinf
,tn ll!lvf
101~ thn ov. to**
of the Thornburg flat. robbery charge.
broken ?iwhAr^of a raUwav mail incessant quarreling as on account of hristlanla from Mmme. Schkimmer ipedition at ('hniitiania for personal Mexiran critics. His tnou.ints ne win
It
wS the atmosphere of suspicion and iaddressed to peace organizations and
.teH the '""t.on^ mature men.^o for-
]Unlted Press Leased Wire Service]
BERLIN, Jan. 27.—Kaiser Wllhelnrt
today
Chancellor Von Bethmann-Hollweg,
who left Berlin late last night, is en
route to army headquarters to Join
the emperor.
At the kaiser's special request, the
elaborate celebrations of'the years
preceding the war were not duplicated
today. Flags were hung out In Ber
lin and other oltles of the empire, but
the usual parades and street demon
strations were lacking. In Berlin, sev
eral entertainments were given, the
proceeds going to a fund for Red
Cross work and for the children of
the soldiiers at the front. The kaiser I
has now completely recovered from
his recent illness, aocordlng to re
ports received here and spends the
greater part of the daylight hours in
the field.
STORMED THE FRENCH.
BERLIN, Jan. 27. (Via wireless to
'Sayvilie.)—German troops after suc
cessful blasting operations, stormed
United Press Leased Wire Service.]
BERLIN, Jan. 27. (Via wireless to
Sayvllle.)—Twenty thousand British
troops defending the Arabian seaport
of Aden, are under heavy attack by
combined Arab and Turkish forces and
in a dangerous position, according to
reports received here today.
The Cologne Volks Zeitung received
a report from Cairo, dated December
30, declaring that the British have
loft 15,000 killed and 20,000 wounded
in f^htlng around Aden since the be
ginning of the war. A wounded Brit
Ish major Is given am authority for the
statement that Arabian sheiks have
gone over to the Turks and that near
ly 100,COO square miles of Arabian ter
ritory, formerly controlled by the Brit
ish, has been lost to them. The Arab
ians, it was stated, are using arms
given them by t"e British.
Aden Is strongly fortified and known
as the Gibraltar of the east.
there
iania telegraph office because
were no such organisations to deliver ,(Tnlte(1
them to. Those who opposed Mmme.
'and those who accompanied him, with mittee was trying to separate from strength of peace sentiment in Scan- hf/°r^ram for^ natlOMl^prepared-
T'CharTeT
that many legitimate grievances, but insist
walking around1 the block she entere.l ,stmas,'' he did not count on im-'rear. On this night, however, his made heavy financial sacrifices to ac- '«lore members of the New piro up hope Their numbers swelled
JSXnZ mediately ending the war. manner suggested that he realized the company the expedition, he said, and Kederation church in Aeolian hail. |t0
id believe was that he fundamental weakness of his organ-.had been assured h0 was to have con- -•'miste.F'
him a whole ship's company. I While Ford admitted that he based ioies. He liarl never, he declared, seen
v" -horrible, not so much because of jment. Numerous cables received in'though professintr to have left the ex-: tor to the front in his reply to his
•MC
..r."
aifceussing arrangements for the Ford
I
.'i
*»-X ..
Herman Rernstein, the New York
(Continued on jmge 2.)
Sea control lost, the present mobile
force could not stop an Invading force
which would capture New York and
the north Atlantic coast states, exact
tribute and drive the American peo
ple into the interior where they would
be left defenseless without amxnuni
tion and powder plants, sold Wood.
Control of several eastern states
would give an invador eighty per cent
of the gun and powder plants and the
United States' store of gold.
"We are living in an era of war, ac
cumulating most of the. gold and with
it a proportionate amount of Ill-will,
and I believe we should be pJ'epared
for storms," said Wood. "We are mo
lested on all sides and God alone can
tell who our next enemy will be He
men would be required. He said popu
Press Tj
for
ness-
returns 1
tary
F.~Aked admit'
that disagreements were to be ted that the press representatives had immediately upon arising and
Yfk-
^'ent
to
,eso troubles would quickly disap- ,were even better than theirs. He had president was scheduled to talk brieflj he suffragists however, did not
.... THE "WEATHER
Cold! wave. Unsettled. Local
temp—7 p. m. 51 7 a. m. 35
CllllS 1S. Ml MSI WUK
General Wood Say5 Our Navy Would Not Last
Sixty Days and Then Country Would
be Invaded.
PAINTS VERY DARK
We are Living in an Era of War, Accumulat
ing Gold and Ill-will, So Should be
Prepared for Storms.
[United Press Leased Wttre Service]
WASHINGTON, Jan. 07.—The Unit
ed States navy would be at the bote
torn of the sea in less than sixty
days, perhaps sooner, if this country
were attacked by a first class power,
General Leonard Wood told the house
committee on military affairs today.
OFF ON SPEAKING TRIP
TO EDUCATE THE PEOPLE
Will Drill Preparedness Plans
Into Minds of All His
Listeners.
eased Wire Service.]
NBW VOKK Jan
1
27.—President
Wilson arrived in New York at 6 a. m.
hj
the Waldorf where tney
1
liare!
EIGHT PAGES
Woods sald the Pactflo coast wsa
even less secure against attack thaq
the Atlantic.
Our Mexican Policy Attacked.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 27.—In one of
the most violent attacks on the ad
ministration's Mexican policy. Presi
dent Wilson and former Secretary
iBryan were personally criticized to
day in a speech by Representative
Humphrey of Washington. The presi
dent was pictured as "scholar, dream
er and theorist." Bryan was referred
to as "a great preacher of Chautauqua
peace at most any price."
The administration's discouraging
and humiliating policy in Mexico, was
declared responsible for the recent
murder of Americans.
"Oar policy in Mexico has earned
ns the contempt of the world has
greatly Influenced warring nations of
ISuropo in their present attitude t6
ward us," said Humphrey. "The
president's policy is characterized
will do so some day. This I know, by weakness, uncertainty, vaccil
our next war will be with'a first-class ation and uncontrollable desire to Ih-•
power." England, he said was not a termoddle. He has not the courage to
possible antagonist of the future. The go into Mexico nor the courage to stay
assault on the United States, ho said out.
would be aimcKl at the Atlantic coast ..We ^*0 a tremendous bluster
line between ^/fi^^ about the killing of American clti
and to repel It, an army of 1,600,000
lar opinion that difficulty would be en
countered by an enemy in moving
troops across the sea, was ridiculous
and that as a matter of fact, move
ment by sea was the easiest in the
world."
The continental army Is simply a
stop-gap or make-shift for what we
must eventually come to in this coun
try, universal military discipline along
the Swiss and Australian line," said
General Wood. "Manhood suffrage
should be coupled with military serv
ice. The idea that any rtian can buy
a substitute when his country is at
stake, is damnable."
llTlrtrl ihjji flt1 tllo
zens upon the high seas, and fill the
air with the tumult of many type
writers. But we have looked with
equanimity undisturbed while hun
dreds of Americans have been puN
posely foully murdered in Mexico. The
whole policy of the president has been
one of meddling between factions, of
secret and private special agents rep
resenting the president personally, a
modified plan followed by the Caesarj
and emperor of China.
"If we are too proud to fight, we
should be too proud to quarrel: I
would not choose between murderers,
but practice pitiless publicity as well
as preach it."
I armed intervention in Mexico must
imean, rather than stirring scenes of
conquest.
8uffragettes Get Busy.
NEW YORK. Jan. ii7.—President
Wilson got no relief from the business
of note writing when he came to New
York for three speeches today.
One hundred suffragettes appeared
at the Waldorf, trailing the president
for an audience and sent him a note.
camraien in support ...
Prese,ntly
na«onai
prepa
«t the dinner
8
™e partywasserved with
ial
at_ lt
resolution, expressing apprecia-
Pr®»Went Wilson delivered
ia reply, explaining that he was too
busy preparing bis speeches.
He will make three speeches before Ti^g reply was un-satipfactory to the
1'J1 suffragettes. They caucused and then
ho |}ent ,al
Ite
ec?n(i
,,ly rhinf ptp-h'hv* to! *lfe
of scar
3)cn)ty
he president sent down
refusing to accede to
the maitre d'hotel. Oscar
|VOlBj,B 240
pounds and moves with
an(
hriertv
2fin
nnn-eria-
lpopfs
tion of his efforts to keep the country votes for women arguments at war
out of war. munitions drummers. They announc
The president's preparedness speech ed they would make another attempt
dofore the raiiroad men at the Waldorf to reach the president when he left at
trnichf was to be followed by another noon to address a body of clergymeri.
n^Mress before the motion pictur3
hoard of trade of America. In his Smoked Him Out.
third speech the president will an- NEW YORK, Jan. 26.—President
s-.ver recent criticism of his foreign I Wilson today told 250 New York suf
policy, specially shafts directed at fra&ists that he has not changed hip
manner of handlinsr ?.Iexican af- views that the suffrage question
nrs. I5ecau?fi the motion picture men should be decided by the state legisla-
Mexican critics. His thoughts he will
ward to the waste of human lives that
1
Tt
i.sl
He
much perspiration.
more
n°
®8,
unahle see the president
Thto
,n
the
Wa]j0rf lobby and hurled
out" by the suffragists after they had
laid siege to the presidential suite for
(Continued on page 2.)
IM
