Troa County ResUter
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
, BUBSCEIPTIOM :
One Year, I1.50. Sir Months, o.7Sv
SATES 0? ADVERTISING '
Furnished On Application. Special In-
ductmenti to Home Patron.
Address Register, Ironton, Mo.
Candidate for
Secretary of State
To the Democrats of the State:
I am a candidate for governor, sub
jeot to the will of the democratic
voters at the Angust primary. My
candidacy ia based on the conviction
that the people want the man who
has best prepared himself to render
service. . . ' . -
In a position second only to that of
, the governorship in , Importance, . I
have made a record., the hOneaty, ef
ficiency and worthiness of which, af
, ter thorough investigation, even par
tisan opponents concede. , All who
have business with me know that lam
always found "on the job." Election
figures of 1908 and, '12 testify to the
extensive acquaintanceship between
me and the voters, whose friendship,
on both occasions honored, me with
leading majorities.
I am not the cham pion of any class
' or industry. By the help of the peo
ple of all callings I expect to win. I
have no fad to exploit, hobby to ride,
nor panacea to offer in an attempt
to fool this or that element into yield
ing support; nor have I money to in
fluence any in my fafor. . All I offer is
a solemn pledge to render.honest and
efficient service. That promise to all
alike I give in good faith, and 'point
' to what I have done as the best evi
dence of what I shall,do. v
T 1 . K i :
ing the, special investigating 'com
" mitteee nnanimously commended, my
business ability, efficiency and econ
omy, they when reported that I had
conducted the State Department, dur.
lug my first term, for $77 ,000.00 less
t, than my predecessor-did his term, and
made the office earnings $22,000.00
greater; that during the first two
years of my second term, I made the
office earn as much as its largest earn
- ingsforany four years prior to my
, Incumbency; and that they ..could not
make a suggestion that would better
the service to the public or give it at
less expense. This is the kind of
economy and business ability I shall
exercise as governor."
. Proposed legislation promising spe
' eial privilege, if not bribery, is dem
' agogical, and unbecoming any man
big enough for the State's highest of
flee. "Vaudeville stunts for the cheap
purpose of catching popular fancy are
more fitting on the stage than on the
forum, The demagogue's success Is
already too much In evidence in the
law books, and too frequent changes
in law disturb business., The simple
duties of honest enforcement and
faithful administration of law are
more needed than new legislation.
The. State's achievements are the
work of the Democratic Party. Mis
souri's worthy activities as directed
by the Party will continue to keep the
State in the front rank pf American
commonwealth!. Missouri under dem
ocratic leadership has always been
and is now the best and most econom
ically governed State in 'the Union,
Our Party has always given the high
est character of public servico at but
a fraction of the cost incurred in other
States of slmuar wealth and popula
tion. Our people are satisfied only
with the best at the least cost, consist
ent with modern progress. '
Progress at increased financial cost
has abolished convict-contract labor
and substituted a system more hu
mane; progress has demanded at ad
Si t " ( ' .
J XV - '
- " W 4 j i
' . ' - '
mm
F. P. AKE, Pnb!i0cev'
VpuME XLIX.
Governorship.
Cornelius Roac-
ditional expenditure State regulation
and control of public utility corpora
tions; the growth of the State and the
just claims of afflicted humanity are
Challenging tho capacity of State in
stitutions; progress demands a more
efficient system of country schools
than can be had at the present aver
age daily cost of nine cents a pupil;
progress demands a type of education
more suited to the needs of our varied
industries, better calculated to in
crease the prosperity of the State's
producing factors and the happiness
of the people; undeveloped resources
of the State necessitate the extention
of a more cordial invitation to outside
capital; and enterprise is demanding
in no uncertain tones a better system
of State-wide road improvement.
Economy demands: that a 6mooth
surface hard road shall lead to every
farm. State-aid road laws that 1
drafted, the annual -registration of
corporations and motor vehicles, have
produced $1,140,000.00 of the $1,390,
000.00 that has financed State-aid pol
icy. As a stimulating agent this fund
has caused the investment from'coun
ty and local sources of more than fif
teen million dollars. The result is
highly gratifying, but to hold out the
inducement that a universal system
of good roads will ever come except;
at the expense chiefly of the commun
ities where the roads are located is
nnpardonable deception.
The State has many difficult prob
lems to solve; problems' that would
become expensive, complicated and
annoying under supervision of the
ambitious but inexperienced; prob
lems that require technical knowledge,
knowledge that can be gained only
from years of public service and ex
perience, and the most assiduous sisdy
and devotion, . "
Safeguarding of expenditure, skill
ful conserving of resources, eliminat
ing Inequalities of taxation, and such
other matters as those suggested, call
for thorough training in statecraft,
intimate and comprehensive knowl
edge of State affairs and needs, ma
ture and dependable judgment, famil
iarity with administrative law, and
proven business capacity. I am con
fident that democratic voters recog
nize the special preparedness that 1
can place at the service of the State
and will honor me as their choice.
COJBNEUUS ROACH.
After Timber Pirates.
(Cape Girardeau Tribune.) ... '
Deputy United States.-- Marshal
Qeoge O. Orchard, yesterday told de
tails of the efforts of both .Federal aud
state officers in Iron, County to stop
timber stealing that has been going
on there and related his experiences
In a revolver., battle between the
sheriff of Iron County and s. band of
timber pirates.
The fighting took place in the ex
treme Western end of Iron County a
week ago last Monday and as a re
sult of Orchurd and the sheriff's work
two men are now under arrest In the
Ironton jail and Information is in the
hands of Orchard and the sheriff that
will lead ,to the Brrest of 14 others. ,
The arrests will menu the breaking
up of a systematic timber piracy In
that section of the county, whioh has
been complained of for several weeks.
State chargoB of stoaliug the timber
will be placed against the med arrest
U i
V U
IRONTON. MO., THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1916.
ed, and the information gathered in
that section by the Federal officers
will be used in filing suits against the
timber agents who .purchased the
stolen timber, which for the most
part, is in the shape of railroad ties.
This evidence will also be used in the
prosecution of similar cases in Wayne
County,
The investigation into the Iron
County situation was made by Sheriff
William Blue of Iron County and Or
chard at the importunement of Rich
ard Dalton, ofvChicago, owner of a
large tract of land in the Western part
of the County. . V
,. His own investigation had shown
Dalton that wholesale timber piracy
had been going on in his lands and he
appealed to the authorities to have it
stopped. The timber piracy is done
by bands of mountaineers who oper
ate under a code similar in many es
sentiais to that of the "night riders"
of Southeast Missouri.
Dalton several weeks ago employed
a watchman to watch the timber steal
ing going on on his lands. The
watchman, William T. Dickerson,
went to the range and lived in the
house that had been erected on the
place.
Dickerson was not suspected by the
mountaineers "as being a spy upon
their operations and was able to get
data on when they cut timber on" Dal
toh's land, how much they cut and
where they sold it. He even obtained
t'ata on the checks that were issued
in payment for the railroad ties by
fcc buying agents at the railroad
stations. . , -
This information he kept carefully
tabulated at his house and continued
to be a watchman living there in the
role of care-taker. He became ac
quainted with all the characters in
the piracy drama and thoroughly ac
quainted with their methods.
At this state, the state officers pre
pared to take a hand in the game and
Sheriff Blue prepared to make a trip
into the mountains to make arrests. At
Dalton'e request, United States Mar
shal, George Lynch, delegated t Or
chard to accompany Blue on the mis
sion. ' - -
On January 10, Orchard and Blue
went to Iron'.on where they- obtained
a team, and buggy for a 35-mile drive
into the western part of the county.
They drcye almost one entire day to
get to tie Dalton place. On their ar
rival ttiure, they held a conference
w (ia 'Dickerson. While Dickerson
was preparing a report for Orchard's
use, the two officers heard wood-chopping
on a hill densely wooded located
wi.hin n.nge of the house. .
They armed themselves and accom
panied by Dickerson in the rear, the
officers began the aotual investiga
tion. . ; : ' - . .
Orchard and Blue .climbed the hill
on the top of which the chopping was
going on and.quietly approached two
of the men engaged in the work. The
ground was carpeted with a soft layer
of leaves and the officers, Orchard
said, were able to approach to within
20 yards of the two woodmen, before
the latter became aware of the officers'
presence. v
They turned, on hearing the foot
steps, dropped their axes and ran.
Blue and Orchard covered them with
their revolvers and the sheriff called
out to them to stop or the shooting
would commence. ;
The two men stopped and returned
to where the officers Btood. At that
time, Orchard and Blud heard the
noise of more chopping being done
over the brow of the hill and by what
seemed to be a larger band of men.
Blue left the two prisoners In the
charge of Orchard and walked over
the hill. He came upon a band of
nine men chopping down trees for
ties. '
He was able to approach only with
in about 400 feet of them, when they
saw him. The alarm was given im
mediately and', they fled, scattering
through the woods. Blue opened fire
upon them with his revolver but to no
avail. A scattering fire was returned
that was ineffectual. v
The sheriff returned to where he
had left Orchard and they took the
two prisoners to the house. They
immediately set out for Ironton with
the prisoners, Sheriff Blue , loaded
them into, the buggy with himself,
Dickerson walked with the rig on the
return trip to Ironton. Orchard made
connections with the SJigo railroad, a
lumber road, and after reaching St.
Louis by a devious route, returned to
Ironton from St. Louis. '
NOriCK OK FINAL SETTLEMENT.'
Notice is hereby given that the under
signed, , Sarah ... C Bond, Executrix
of the . entate of Samuel Bond, de
ceased, will male Final Settlement of her
accounts with said estate as such Exec
utdx at the next tern of the Trobate
Court of Iron County, Missouri, to be hold
en at Ironton, in said County, on the 14th
day of February, A. Di 91 6. ( ,
. SARAK C. UOND, Executrix.
Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron County, Mis
souri, in vacation. December 17, 1915,
The State of Missouri, at the relation and
to the use of 'Jt. H. Hurnhnni, Collector
of the Kevenkie 6 Iron County, Mis
souri, . , '
MgilillSt ' .
J. W. K'err, Arthur Huff, F.lias Kemp,
. Alfred H. Shv. Joseph 0. Mover. T. S.
t Jordan, John fcfiiw, CHlvin Davis, Etas-
I
K ifci M,
OUR GOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
tus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis King
and W. J. Hilands, if living, or theun
known heirs and devisees of F.lias
Kemp, Alfred H, Shv, Joseph C. Moy
er, J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis.Erastus G,Loomis, Jessie Loom
is King and W. J, Hilands, if they be
. dead, defendants.
(Action to Eniorce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B.
P. Burnham, Collector of the Revenue of
Iron County, Missouri, and files his peti
tion and affidavit, setting forth among
other things, that the defendants, Elias
Kemp, Alfred H. Shy, Joseph C. Moyer.
J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin Davis,
Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis King
and W. J. Hilands, are non-residents of
the State of Missouri, and that they can
not be served with summons in said
State., ,
Plaintiff stales that the defendants, Eli
as Kemp, Alfred H. Shy, Joseph C.
Moyer, J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jesie Loomis
King and VV. J. Hilands,
have not been heard of for many years;
that plaintiff is not informed whether
they be living or dead; that if they be
dead their heirs, or if they died leavine a
Lwill, their devisees are interested in the
subject matter 01 this petition; that the
names of such heirs or devisees, or both,
cannot be inserted herein because they
are unknown to plaintiff; that the said
Elias Kemp, Alfred H. Shy, Joseph C.
Moyer, J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis
King and W. J. Hilands
were the record owners of the land de
scribed herein, but plaintiff has no infor
mation except as herein stated of the na
ture of the interest and estate in said land
owned by said '
Elias Kemp, Alfred H, Shy, Joseph C.
Moyer, J. S. Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis
King and V. J. Hilands,
and, therefore, is unable to particularly
describe the sami; anrl that in the event
of the death of the said Elias Kemp, Al
fred H. Shy, Joseph C. Moyer, J. S. Jor
dan, John Efaw,-Calvin Davis, Erastus
G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis King and W.
J. Hilands, their said heirs and devisees
have.'.by descent or devise, succeeded to
the said interest and estate, of the said
Elias Kempj Alfred'H. Shy, Joseph C.
Moyer, J. S, Jordan, John Efaw, Calvin
Davis, Erastus G. Loomis, Jessie Loomis
King and W. J. Hilands,
from whom their interest in the property
herein described is derived.
It is, therefore, . ordered by the Clerk
of the Circuit Court of Iron County, Mis
souri,, in vacation, that publication be
made notifying said defendants that an
action has been commenced against them
in the Circuit Court of said county, the
object and general nature of which is to
enforce the lien of the State of Missouri
on the following real estate, belonging to
the said defendants, for back taxes for the
years 1910, 1911, 1912 and 1913 to-wit:
The southwest quarter of, the southeast
quarter of section 18, township 34, north,
of range 2 east, 40 acres; the southwest
quarter of the southwest quarter of sec
tion 28, township 32, north, of range 3
east, 40 acres all in Iron County, Mis
souri. (An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and cost-now due on said
real estate for the years aforesaid,
amounting in the aeeresrate to the sum
of sixteen and 66-100 dollars, is filed with
said petition as provided by law.)
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said countv
on- the fourth Monday in April next,
iuio, ana on or oeiore tne cnira day
thereof (if the term shall so long con
tinue ; and, if not, then before the end
of the term), and plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition,1 the
same will be taken as confessed, judg-"
meni renaerea in accordance with the
prayer cf eaid petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interests and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy
hereof be published according to law in
the Iron County Register, a weekly
newspaper published in said county of
Iron, and state of Missouri.
. JESSE M. HAWKINS,
. ' Circuit Clerk,
A true copy from the record:
Witness my hand and official seal, this
seal! i7th day of December, i9i5.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the circuit court of Iron county, Mis
souri, in vacation, December 18, 1915.
The State of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. .P. Burnham,
Collector of the Revenue of Iron
County, Missouri,
against s
Henry Schluetor, if living ; or, if he be
dead, then Mollie Schlueter, Charles
Schluetor and William Schlueter,
sole heirs at law of Henry Schlueter,
deceased, defendants. .
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron County, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendant,
Henry Schlueter,
is a non-resident of the State of Mis
souri, and that he cannot be served
with summons in said State; it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the circuit
court'of Iron county, Missouri, in vaca
tion, that publication be made notifying
said defendant that an action has been
commenced against him in the circuit
court of said county, the object and
goncral nature of which is to enforce
the lien of the State of Missouri on the
following real estate, belonging to said
defendants for back taxes for the years
lDlP, 1911, 1912 and 1913, to-wit:
Lot 7 in block 8 in the Town of Pilot
Knob, Missouri, as the same appears on
the plat of said Town of Pilot Krfob,
Missouri, on file, in the office of the Re
corder of Deeds for Iron county, Mis
souri. Tract No. 2 Lots 3 and 4 in
block 20 in the Town of Pilot Knob,
Missouri, as the same appears on the
plat of said Town of Pilot Knob, Mis.
souri, on file in the office of the Record
er of Deeds for Iron county, Missouri
all of said land being in Iron county,
Missouri. .
(An itemized statement in the nature
of a tax bill showing the amount of
taxes, interest and costs now due on said
real estate for the years aforesaid,
amounting in the Aggregate to the sum
ot twonty-two and 02-100 dollars, is filer1,
with said petition as provided by low.)
, ,nd unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county ol Iron, and stato ot Mis-
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in April next,
1916, and on or before the third day
thereof (if the term shall so long
continue; and, if not, then before the
end of the term), and plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance with the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interest and costs, be sold under a
special fieri facias to be issued thereon.
Itjs further ordered that a copy here
of be published according to law in the
Iron Countv Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and fjtate of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
Circuit Clerk.
A true copy from the record :'
Witness my hand and official seal, this
seal i8th day of December, 1915.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron County,
Missouri, in Vacation, December n,
i9i5.
The State of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
Collector of tho Revenue of Iron
County, Missouri, ... .
: against ;
Natharr Montgomery, Jordan J. Mont
gomery, Robert M . Stevenson, John
Morris, Thomas Morris and Thomas
Moore, if living: or the unknown
consort, heirs and devisees of Nathan
Montgomery, Jordan J. Montgomery,
Robert M. Stevenson, John Morris,
Thomas Morris and Thomas Moore, if
they be dead, defendants.
(Action to Enforce Li6n for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes tho plaintiff
B. P. Burnham, collector of the revenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
amongother things.that the defendants,
Nathan Montgomery, Jordan J. Mont
gomery, ' Robert M. Stovenson, John
Morris, Thomas Morris and Thomas
Moore aro i
non-residents ol tho state of Missouri,
and that they cannot be served with
summons in said state; it is there
fore ordered by the -clerk of the cir
cuit court of Iron county, Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an
action has been commoneed against
him in the circuit court of said county,
the object and general nature of which
is to enforce the lien of the state of
Missouri on the following real estate,
belonging to the said defendants for
back taxes for tho years i910, 19li,
I9i2 and i913, to-wit;
The northwe3t quarter of the south
west quarry: of the northeast quarter of
section id8, townBhip 3t, north, nf range
4 eap'jj 10 acies, in Iron county, Mis.
so'i'.iv .
, ;An itemized statement in the nature
r,l a tax bi ll showing the mount of
taxes, interest and cost I ow due on said
real estate for the yeirs aforesaid,
amounting in tho aggrogi te t? the sum
of five and" 48-iOO dolU-s, j filed
with said petition as fevidev; Iry law.)
TERMS-fi.50 a-Year In Advance.
NUMBER 34.
And unless they be and appear at
she next term of Raid nnnrfctn Ka holder,
for the county of Iron, and state of
uussijuri, as me couri nouse in said
county on the fourth Monday in
April, nest, i9i6, and on or before
the third day thereof (if the term shall
so long continue; and, if not, "then
before the end of the term), and plead,
answer or demur to said plaintiff's
petition, the same will be taken as
confessed, judgment rendered in accord
ance wit.h tho nrnxmr nf cai'H Tnt-ifin
and said realeBtate, or so much thereof
uo may uo necessary to satisiy said
judgment, interests and costs, be sold
under a special fieri facias to be issued
thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy here
of, be published according to law in the
Iron County Register, a weekly news
paper published in said county of Iron,
and state of Missouri.
JESSE M. HAWKINS,
Circuit Clerk.
A, true copy from the record;
Witness my hand and official seal, this
seal 17th day of Docember, i9t5.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron County, Mo.
Order of Publication.
In the Circuit Court of Iron County,
Missouri, in Vacation, December i7,
1915. , '
The state of Missouri, at the relation
and to the use of B. P. Burnham,
Collector of the Revenue of Iron
County, Missouri,
against
Lester C. Chambers, John McAllister
and John McCallister, if living: or
the unknown heirs and devisees of
Lester C. Chambers, John McAllister
and John McCallisler.if they be dead,
dofendants.
(Action to Enforce Lien for Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff,
B. P. Burnham, collector of thsnvenue
of Iron county, Missouri, and files his
petition and affidavit, setting forth
among other things, that the defendants,
Lester C (Chambers, John McAllister
and John McCallister,
aro non-residents of the state of Mis
souri, and that they cannot bo served
with summons in said state; it is there
fore, ordered by the clerk of the cir
cuit court of Iron county. Missouri, in
vacation, that publication be made
notifying said defendants that an action
has been commenced against thoin in
tho circuit court cf said county, the
object and general nature of which is
to enforce the lien of the state of Mis
souri on the following real estate, be
longing to the said defendants for back
jaxesfor the years I9i0, i9il, 9i2,and
i9i3, to-wit:
The east one-half of lots one and two,
in block ten, of the North Addition to
the City of Ironton, Missouri, as the
same are represented on tho Ilat of
said North Addition to the City of Iron
ton, Missouri, on file in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds for Iron county,
Missouri. , '
An itemized statement in tho nature
of a tax bill showing tho amount' of
taxes, interest and costs now duo on siud
real estate for. the years foreimid,
FOR
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
ing establishment in this
section of the State. We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
flTRY US.
' amounting in the airm-po-nta t.n t.ho onm
of three and 84-i00 dollars, is filed with
said petition as provided by law.
And unless they be and appear at the
next term of said court to be holden for
the county of Iron, and state of Mis
souri, at the court house in said county
on the fourth Monday in April, next,
i9i6, and on or before the third day
thereof (if the term shall so long
continue; and, if not, then before the
end of the term), and plead, answer or
demur to said plaintiff's petition, the
same will be taken as confessed, judg
ment rendered in accordance wfth the
prayer of said petition, and said real
estate, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy said judgment,
interests and costs, be sold under a
spf eial fieri facias to be issued thereon.
It is further ordered that a copy
hereof be published according to law in
the Iron County Reoister, a weekly
newspaper published in said county of
Iron, and state of Missouri
JESSE M. HAWKINS.
Circuit Clerk.
A true eortv from tho rpnrd
Witness my hand and official Beal, this
LsiiALj ltn nay or uecemoer, 1915.
JESSE M. HAWKINS, Clerk
Circuit Court, Iron county, Mo.
Order of Publication.
Tii tile Circuit Court of Iron County, Missouri, in
vacHtioti, December 18, 15)15. '
The Rtfttftof Minnouri, at the relation and to tho
uao of B. I', liumhnm, irollector of the rovemie
of lrou county, AlisBouri,
Airnmur
William .Sehmitanii VVilholm Schmit, if living, or
tlie unknown htjirs ami (ltviftffg of WillUm
'- Hchmit and Wilhelin Sehmit.if they be dead, tie-
t'yiiflautB.
Action to Enforce Lien fur Taxes.)
Now at this day comes the plaintiff, B. P. Burn
ham, colletitor of the revenue ot J.rn county, Mis
noun, and tiles his petition and affidavit, sett in j
forth among other thirds, that the defendants
William ISchmit and WiUielm (Schrait, if livinif;
or the unknown beira aud devisees of WiUicto
Schmit and Wilhelin Hchmit, if t.hey he dead,
are nnn remdents of the state of Slianouri, and that
they ciinuot be served with Humtnona in said state;
It is therefore ordered hv the clerk of the circnit
court of Iron county. Missouri, in vacation, that
publication Iw made notifying said defendant a that
un action has been commenced against them in the
circuit court of said ounnty, the object and Ki.'ner
a! nature ot which is to enforce the lien of the
state of Missouri, on the following real estate, be
InnRiiiK to the aid defendant for back txta tor
the yean WU), 1911, 1112 aud 1113, to wit;
Lot eleven, twelve and thirteen in block 12 of
the Town of Pilot Knob, Missouri as 'the same
aupear on the plat of said Town of Pilot Kuoh,
Missonri, on file in 5he office of the Kuoorder of
Deeds for Iron County, Misaouri.
( An itemized statement In the nature ot ft tax
hill (showing the amount Of taxya, luterebt ami
costs now due ou said real aatatM for Uie ytwi-n
aforesaid, amounting in the aggregate to the sum
ot seven and 40-100 dollars, t tiled with aaid pe
tition as provided hv law.)
And uulesa they le and appear at tho next term
of aaid court to be holden tot the county of Iron,
and Htate of Missouri, at th court house in haid
county on the fourth Monday ia April next,
HUH, and on or before the third day thereof (if
the Urm shall so long continue; and, if not, then
before the end of the term), and plead, answer, or
demur to said plaintiff 's petition, tlve same will he
taken as confessed. Judgment, rendered in aoeord
aoce with the prayer of said pat It on and said leitl
estate, or so inuh thereof as tuny be necesaary lo
stttiafy said judtritumt, iutereat aud cmt, be id
nuder a special fieri facias to ba itwuetl tljateon.
It, i further ordered that ft copy hertmf lie piih
limbed according to law in the Iron Cot' MY Kf
IfsTEIt, ft weiljr Wwnpaper published suid
counlyof Itv-o, and Htnt f Miwcnurt,
JKS.sK M. MAWK1N.S, Cirmiit Clerk.
A true copy from the word :
W'j ( ui ' hand nd dttioUl sctUthU iHfh dr y
of Deceiubp, !!.",
HkWUi JKSMi M. If AWKIN'N, Ch-rk
Orcuit Court, lrm !mi. , to.
