Oregon Historical Socletr
Comp 207 Second St
"Ashland Grows While Lithla Flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
HLAND
NGS
Ashland, Oregon, Lithla Springs
"The Carlsbad of America"
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1916
NUMBER 71
1JJ1
Our Medford
Subscribers
C. 0. P. Company
Elects Officers
The Mail Tribune complains bit- The California-Oregon Power com-
terly because the Ashland Tidings pany which furnishes Ashland with
got 101 new subscribe in Medford Part of the cur.rent used in the city,
Professor Anthony of Saratoga
New York Will Speak Tonight
In one day at a price "net to the pub
lisher" more than both the juvenile
dailies are worth. It might have
Professor Anthony, famous en
gineer of the Saratoga mineral
springs of New York, is in the valley
and is one of the biggest elecrical
power vunu, uu m v.ua0i, m an(J w,,, s)pak ton,Bht flt U(J C()m
meeting of stockholders held in San ....... ,,, nnn invitnflnn n. Mip
gone farther, U it wished. The next rranciscu, im iujiu.ii uMsra ... (.1lb Mr Antllony has 1)e(,n ld(,UU
day, and the next, and the next, the the personnel of the officers and the ,m wUh UlR ,jn;ding up ot the great
Tidings got nearly as many Medford board of directors. N( w York BI.inKS r,,s01.t and )g con.
subscribers as the first day, and itj Joseph D. Grant was elected pres-; Meni Rn authorty ,u,on min(;ral
expects to finally have more sub-. ident, vice Jesse Churchill, who re-; watm anJ Rage iiis talk will deal
ecribers in Medford than either of tains his place on the board. C. jt, ,,h . develol)m(?nt an(1
Guigne and Joseph Hyman are new ))0s6iljilitieg an( Bhou!d bring out a
board members. ,a,.ge crowd E1,ht 0.c,ock gharp
The corporation is the successor of ( Mr Anthony is here ag tlle congult.
the Siskiyou Electric Power and tn?,ineer of the Pon,1)adollr Min.
Light company. It supplies 24 com- raI Companv and EpeMt Wed.
I munities with light and power in
' Northern California and Southern I .:
the Juvenile dailies. There is a very
clear reason why it should. Its poll
tics are broad and it prints the news
without fear or favor. Set this over
against the contracted, two-by-four
policy of the Medford dallies their
arbitrary bluff and bluster their
nesday at th? springs in the company
of Harry Silver, George Sornnson, J.
D. Hell, M. P. Smith. J. S. Bailey and
Opens Salesroom
For Used Cars
Rotary Plow Wins
Battle With Snow
J. Kenneth McWilliams, who has j Last Saturday and Sunday the
been directly and Indirectly connect-, Southern Pacific trains on the Shasta
ed with the automobile business in 'division were tied up almost com
Ashlaml lor several years and who ! pletely by the biggest snow in 14
Ralph Woolford. all of whom are 1 ils ,lone considerable business in tho years but a big rotary snow plow
Identified with the company which "and. Ing of "sod cars in the past, has aided by a warm rain finally cleared
will develop the Pompadour lithia lu'm;(1 a salesroom in the building the track so that, trains are now
and gas tprlngs. Mr. Anthony is eon-; a lIHltio of which Is occupied by. running almost on schedule tinio.
ducting a series of tests and pro- ' Carlos Hast, the vulcanizer, on Mill i Every manner of snowplow and
claims the lithla spring water to bo a ,8treet over 1,10 creek. Mr. McWil-'even ditch diggers and crams wero
wonderful water, In a class by itself. ''allls wl" handle used cars exclu-, cnlled into use to open the road from
Plans for development and market- iBivo,J' aiu' anticipates a good business the Siskiyou grade south of Ash
ing of the water and other features of i 1,8 1,10 d-'mad for used cars is good land to Diuisniuir and the Klamath
tho springs development will be gone
over with Air. Anthony during his
visit
Ash'and mobilization svstetn
desire to control the politics of the Oregon, and In building an additional CMf; AcJlljJfld Trt
county their vindictive spirit their Plant on the Klamath river to gener-'uv'iv ",iualu v
Enter New Field
Workmen Busy
bullyragging tactics their rule-or- ate o3,000 horsepower,
ruin attitude toward men and lnstl-
tntimic u'hn differ uith Ihom ThplH
persistence In thece has made Med
ford citizens hungry for a newspaper
that can be relied upon and that
prints the news without bias. For
that reason, knowing the Tidings to
be fearless and fair without ambi
tion to control politics or favor pets
printing all the news all the time
not easily bluffed Into supine fol
lowing of a chosen political bunch,
Medford citizens did subscribe, when
solicited, and the Tidings feels com
plimented by the- confidence so- ex
pressed and is zealous to publish such
a paper as will more than meet their
expectations. It Is well known that
the narrow vicious and vindictive pol
icy of the Medford press has well
nigh ruined the valley, and their
overbearing and overshadowing de
meanor has nearly marooned the
splendid city of Medford from other
valley communities.
The Tidings believes that the
Rogue River valley is so physically
constituted that It is utterly Impossi
ble for any local community to pros
per except by fostering the prosperity
and development of the whole valley.
Topography has so related the com-
In Hotel Oregon
With the coming of spring and the
opening of the new Lithia Park to
tourists, a new department is to bo
added to the popular Studio Ashland.
in Ashland. lie has several attrac-: Falls branch from Weed
live buys on hand at present. A
ne is greutiy interested in the! "' .": ni put an chih comothts
f r:.... ........ ... i i
in i.iri-viusb Hiiupu. vnnounceineni i rive of
appears in the advei tisin
this paper.
iusmess
Elect OfficeisCivic LnProvsment
The Business Men's Association
met Monday evening at the Commer
cial Club and e'ected officers for the
year. The club turned down the prop-
I Work on the remodeling of the Ho
!tel Oregon commenced this morning.
. The floor In the second story is being
,torn up preparatory to insfalllng
I plumbing. The hotel will remain
open and a few rooms at a time re-
! modeled.
fittPd up with plumbing and then the
carpenters and decorators will take
charge of them. When the first set
of rooms are completed and ready for
occupancy the next set will be taken
care of. The work downstairs will be
handled In the same manner. Within
a few weeks Ashland will have a hotel
of which the city may well be proud.
This will comprise an extensive line of opsition whirh was under considera
' attractive views of Ashland and vi- tion to merge with the Commercial
cinity. Lithia Park will be featured, ! Club as a bureau and will continue
also all of the great scenic attractions
of s-outhern Oregon and northern Cal
ifornia. Tl.ir, t.,M.L- ..-ill Kn n.n.lrt i,. I... n n
t-, ,, ,,. r 1 hid nu.iv nil. ur: iijauu ill' llliu nil
Four or five rooms will be , . , '
anraetivo nne or pasiearos, also en
largements, both plain and hand-colored.
.
as an Independent organization.
Meetings will be held on the second
Monday of each month and luncheons
he'd occasionally to vary the monot
ony of routine business.
Frank J. Shinn was elected presi
dent; Will Dodge, first vice-presi-
Lyceum Course
Lecture Friday
Kodak finishing for the amateur dent; C. II. Vaupel, second vice-presl-on
a large scale, of which quality of dent; Monte Briggs, recording secre
work and quick finishing will be a tary; Henry Enders, Jr., treasurer.
feature, will also be Included in this j The Business Men's Association has '
department. j been tho means of saving Ashlnnd
Mr. Hinthorne has had extensive merchants over a thousand dollars on j
experience In this line and will push advertising schemes during the past
it with all the energy and talent year and has saved hundreds of dol-
which has made Studio Ashland lars by their credit co-operation.
noted for its high class portraiture, aldition a much better feeling, both
With the opening of the new park socially and in a business way, has
and the development of Ashland into been engendered.
I a tourist resort .an extensive line of One of the features of the meetings
Judge George D. Alden, one of the tnfs nature, of Studio Ashland qual- during this year will be five-minute
greatest of the present day lecturers, j should be a success and do much talks by the members upon their lines
At one time Saturday night 15 lo-
were stuck in the snow.
them on the branch from
columns of , wnfri tn Kt,lmth i.-oiiu .n.. ...
i .... .. , . .i. ..m ! i nun, I7U1, 1)1 j-
ant, running the flanger on the Weed
I branch, stuck In a cut nrar Bray and
! was helpless. The dispatcher at
Duiismuir wired that nothing could
flail r.fTrtt-.V.v 1,0 ''one to relieve him. He and hi
Villi iCCtIiijJ!crew had bt-tler go to bed for tho
- j night. They obeyed the order.
A fine attendance of members and ' Tno rotary snowplow, the savior in
friends heard M. J. Duryea address nlany a blockade, juinp"d tho track
the Civic Improvement Club at tho near JSpna Saturday night and pau
city library Tuesday afternoon and senger trains behind it were heip-
, participated in a busy business meet-1 lesa:-v snowbound.
Ing. Mcsdumes C. H. Vaupel, C. H ! But the Southern Pacific got
Veghto and H. 0. Frohbach were ap-' its second wind Sunday. The rotary
pointed to take charge of the pluns j was jnckscrcwed bark to its placo on
for tho sweet pea show which will; the rails. The Hanger was shoveled
be staged by the Civic Improvement out of the Weed branch, and a heavy
Club during the three days' celehra-' rain a warm, melting downpour
tion in July. The ladies plan to make 'set in, taking the place of the Satur
this event one of the most unique and dn' night hurricane that drifted tho
pretty features of the big event. isnow everywhere and filled up the
H. 0. Frohbach spoke, outlining ' rai,roa(1 -'"ts bank full.
the plans which had already been j The rotary snowplow arrived "at
laid for the dedication of the springs Sisson at 8 o'clock Monday morning,
and park and the celebration features , having cleared the track to the north,
which will make July 4, 5 and C the .The rest was easy to Dunsmuir. The
liveliest days Ashland has ever ' Shasta limited, south bound, followed
knOWn. Thp Hill) lnrliua AntAaii in the I'ntnrv anil pninn vavv nuntiltr ntalr-
I lane uiiui Be 01 me resi rooms, seven i mg scneouie lime.
of which will be established In dif-l The warm rain settled and melted
! fprpnt nnrfa nf iha nlv tnr lm l,.i.. a .... . .
. wliJ lllc u-uc- me snow, oisson naa live leet sun
fit of the women and children. The ( day morning, after the big storm of
club will also assist with the parade: the night before, but the rain settled
and will no doubt later on give ma-1 and melted It so that bv Monday
will speak at the Methodist church i to advertise the beauties of Ashland of business, Eventually It is hoped
Miunities here that there must be a ; Frldav evenlne of thla week, this be- ailJ southern Oregon
free and helpful intermingling of all Ung one of the regular numbers of the
communities with the others to I Ministerial Association's Ivceum
It
achieve a reasonable degree of expan
sion and prosperity. And any news
paper or individual who stands In the
way of such good feeling and ex
change absolutely hampers the ad
vancement of the valley.
The Medford newspapers are most
ly responsible for the ill feeling en
gendered In the past between the
communities of Ashland and Med
ford. .Their domineering, overshad
owing policy did it, and nearly ruined
both the splendid cities. They were
too narrow to understand, as did the
most of the citizens of both communi
ties, that nature had fixed the des
tiny of both cities os that there was
no excuse for bitter rivalry and ani
mosity between them. Design bad
placed Medford in the center of a
tremendously fertile valley and had
decreed that she should be the com
mercial as well as the geographical
center of it. Man had as well at
tempt to stop the sun in her diurnal
course as to change the commercial
relations of Medford to the valley.
She is, by nature, the commercial me-
tropolls of southern Oregon, and only,
unthinking men will attempt to deny
it. So is Medford and so will she con
tinue to be.
So, also, has nature fixed an indi-
course. Judge Alden conies with the
highest of recommendations from big
men all over the country. He himself
is a truly great man and has a mes
sage which is worth hearing. The
governor of Michigan pays him the
following compliment:
Local Company 6th
In Trophy Shoot
i
Scores of the 15 organizations of i
the Oregon National guard compet-j
I ing in the bankers' trophy shoot held j
to have every business heard from,
and much good will result In a broad
er conception of the difficulties
which the fellow business men are
cailed upon to meet.
terial assistance to other features.
Mrs. Rocho reported on the year
book and later they were distributed
morning the depth of snow in Sisson
was only three feet and a half. The
rain sent the streams upward with a
to the members. The year books are j bound, and while the snow blockado
artistic and full of Information, and , is lifted, the railroad company may
i lira A nn t Vi a TTarria Tnafiturj lvonrvi
. lt ilast December have been received by
nniircA tu'lnp Ho tract rnllPn tho nop. i '
Crater Lake Park
Dry With Oregon
.11 a 1.U..JUC U. tlllCB KJl 1.113 EJIUIU
Crater Lake park went dry when
ilnpnl nrtlllnrv nfflnora Tho rnmnonv tile State 01 UreROH UBSSed the ant -
ond time because he gave immense ,t c Groye q 8aIoon law according to advices from
satisfaction on his first visit. Judge L. . ivi,i(.
The Ashland company took sixth ' Representative "awley was In-
place with the following score: i formed by the ' 1""
. terior that the park regulations
rirsi company j. n. v., Asuianu
Alden Is a man of attractive person
ality. He is a clear, incisive thinker
and is a man who always presents be
fore his audience the highest Ideals.
Judge Alden is an orator of great , Strength, 65; firing, 21; possible,
power." Woodbrldge N. Ferris.
Cafeteria supper, Chautauqua Hall,
by the Wednesday Club, Saturday,
January 29. Service from S o'clock
on. Public cordially invited. It
ties. Each must develop along its
proper natural line, and the degree
of success of one will determine the
degree of success of the other. This
nature has decreed. Let no narrow
newspaper policy hamper it.
The paved Pacific. Highway ties
Ashland and Medford together like
2100; grand aggregate, 1392; per
cent of possible, 66.29.
Cambridge block in Portland is to
be remodelled at a cost ot $30,000.
I would be modified to prohibit the
sale of liquor within the park. Here
tofore, a system of licenses such as
is in effect in other national parks,
was In effect.
Hubbard's fine new school house
is nearly completed.
Work on the Umpqua-Crater lake,
road has been started at Tiller.
CHf Payne makes window seats.
Tidual destiny for Ashland, out of Siamese twins, and the life blood of
range of Medford's proper line of de
velopment, out of contra-contact with
her ambitions, an ally and helpmate,
not an enemy. Located, as she is,
at the head of this splendid valley,
nestling at the foot of great Mt.
Ashland, amidst one of the most pic
turesque and charming environments
the world affords, with an unrivalled
climate, with her beautiful home
Bites, her wealth of health-giving
mineral waters, with her crystal Ash
land creek dashing and singing over
both courses through this vital ar
tery. The flow should be free and
healthful and prosperity and good
feeling should articulate between
them, each giving strength and sup
port to the ambitions and enterprises
of the other.
This the Tidings thinks is the nat
ural and proper relation between the
two communities; and It will be its
greatest ambition to foster and
strengthen it.
Last September the Ashland Print-
granite boulders through absolutely I ing Company was organized, with
the grandest natural park on this
earth, gives her an individuality and
a possible destiny all her own one
that hampers the development of no
other community, but a resource
which, if properly utilized, will build
her into a splendid home and resort
city. She is now, busy developing
along this, her natural line, and her
success in the undertaking will con
tribute tremendously to the advance
ment of the whole valley. The work
Ashland has undertaken has potency
in it alone to triple the population of
both Ashland and Medford and dou
ble the population of the valley.
There is no possible excuse for bitted
rivalry between the two comm'uh'i-'
twonty thousand dollars capital, all
paid In, not a dollar of which ia
which is owned by any bank or poli
tician in Jackson county. It is all
new capital in the state. The Ash
land Tidings was purchased by this
company with the view of making It
a strong county newspaper.. The
company is clear of debt and has cash
in the bank. It has the financial
strength apd believes it will be able
to employ the brains to make the
Ashland Tidings the biggest and best
newspaper in southern Oregon. Its
policies are broad and clean-cut and
its ambition Is to help mould south
ern Oregon Into a great, homogene
ous' and distinctly prosperous whole.
, .., . , .
i . ' , , i .r
- : W
r.
I,...-,, .1 ,,t ,,- I ,'., ,,' III I .
h CHARLIES CHAPLIN . ,Q
will be treasured by ail the Civic
members. Those who have not al
ready received theirs may get them
from the secretary.
Dues were collected, and those who
have not already paid are requested
to hand In their dues at the earliest
opportunity.
The club members were asked to
sell tickets for the Tom fhumb wed
ding to be held tomorrow night, the
request meeting with ready response,
Mesdames Hum Pracht, D. Perozzl
and C. B. Lamkin were elected to fill
the vacancies on the advisory board
of the Auxiliary Club. The club vot
ed to give $5 to the scholarship loan
fund being established by the state
Federation of Women's Clubs.
This concluded the business of the
meeting and was followed by a pro
gram of music and addresses.
Miss Myrtle Dougherty favored the
club with a piano solo.
M,
expect to have to battle with land
slides and washouts.
The Southern Pacific, as far as
the Shasta division is concerned, had
the hardest battle with snow In 14
years. Aided by the rotary and tha
heavy warm rain, the blockade was
of short duration, and by Monday
evening all passenger trains were
making nearly schedule time.
Ashland High Wins
From Eugene High
In the most closely contested
game of the year the Ashland high
basketball team nosed out a 20-18
victory over the Eugene high team
In .the local gymnasium last Satur
day evening. The game was fast and
exceptionally clean. The visitors put
up a good brand of hali but did not
J. Duryea then addressed the have the success In locating the bas-
gathering, his subject being "Ash-; ket which attended the efforts of the
land's Future." He outlined the vis-jiocalB. Eugene high ranks well with
ions of the young men and drenms of the best teams of northern Oregon,
the old, basing his discourse on the and this victory means one more step
Bible text. Mr. Duryea's visions for toward the state championship goal.
Ashland include many beautiful Tho irnnip nlnvcd bv th Ashlnndnru
homes on the hillsides around the
city; factories and canneries to care
for the fruit crops raised in the vl-
slowed down In spots and team work
was lacking at a few critical times,
but otherwise was first class. Coach
In "Work," Two-Keel Essanar Come dy, HulunUy, January 29,
cinity, and much of which now rots .t to Klum of Medford reforeed.
for lack ot a market; a scientific ' Gl.Hez 8tarred for Ashland with ten
water cure sanitarium and resort fea-'points t0 n)s crP(iit. "Gravy" Ply
tures which will make Ashland notniatCi old hif;h BcllonI basketball and
alone a pleasure resort but a health baseball star, is back in school and
resort as well. He outlined the Ho- 'pInye(1 hia first ganie Saturday. Man
tel Oregon as it will be when remod- 'ormJ wn8 the whole show for Eugene,
eled; spoke of golf links which will getting 11 points,
be a valuable adjunct in appealing to jn a preliminary in which fast,
the rich class of tourists nnd pleasure cean team work overcame rather
seekers and which will not only ald,r0UBn guarding the Phoenix team de
in furnishing pleasure, but force ( feated the Ashland high second team,
health upon tho patrons, and pleaded I
for a city of optimists, with no pes
simists, His final vision was that of
a beautiful club house on tbe hill
side, the home of the Civic Improve
ment Club, with the motto over the
entrance: "And now abldeth faith,
hope and charity. Faith in ourself,
our town and our neighbors, hope In
It and love for it."
The talk was enthusiastically re
ceived and made an impression which
will last upon every hearer. The club
gave a rising vote of thanks to Mr.
Duryea.
Medford Election
Contest Baseless
Our tailoring expert will give you
a real fit at reasonable prices. Paul
serud & Barrett.
The Medynskl-Emmons election
contest at Medford was decided Sat
urday after an official recount, which
exonerated Dr. Emmons and gave
him the seat as councilman of the
first ward.
Charges of Irregularity and intima
tions of fraud had been made, but the
original majority of 28 votes was sus
tained, and aside from a tew changes
in minor offices the recount tallied
with the first count. ,
