"" now n
InodastoalpST". iTfy ? ,ySYI Ski VV iTWvV ; 4 P. M. Cm EDITION ll
lead, $6.05; spelter, not quoted- con r "J 7 m. . J t I I
: per, firm; electrolytic,. $25.50 ' P' Cj J PHHa5ECAST-UTfAH: 7" and I I
;, p ' ' ,w" - , - Friday snow; not much change In M
5H i J " - '"' temperature. II
1 HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. I I
1 !!'Xth YCarN- 23 Price: Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, JANUARY 27, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffice Ogden Utrii ! 1 1
ji i .
1 British Forces In Southern Arabia
I ... Are In a Dangerous Position
I FIERCE ATTACKS MADE BY TURKS
AND ARABS ON BRITISH TROOPS
, Fifteen Thousand Killed and Twenty Thousand Wounded
Great Area Lost Active Fighting on Entire Western
Front Heavy Bombarding Near Nieuport, North
; of Ypres and in Argonne Germans Capture
Between 500 and 600 Yards of Trenches
French Losses During War 800,000
.; Killed, 1,400,000 Wounded,
300,000 Taken Prisoners.
Bristol, Jan. 27, 2:50 p. m. M. Longuet, French Social
j ist deputy who addressed the labor conference today, on being
questioned regarding the French losses, said that 800,000 sol
j rJiers had been killed, that 1 ,400,000 had been wounded and
i that 300,000 had been taken prisoner.
i Berlin, Jan. 27, by wireless to Sayville. The German
; attack on the French positions near Neuville was resumed yes-
terday, and, according to the war office statement of today,
j between 500 and 600 yards of the French lines were captured.
ij London, Jan. 27, 5:32 p. m. Parliament was prorogued
.; until February 1 5 today. In the prorogation King George -said:
! "We shall not lay down our arms until. we have vindicated
the cause which carries with it the future of civilization."
:1
i Berlin, Jan. 27, by wireless to Sayville. Advices from
Vienna say that General Vukotitch who, according to entente
1 reports, has continued to lead the Montenegrin resistance ,
j against the Austro-Hungarian troops, has surrendered at Dani-!
i lovorad together with several other Montenegrin generals.
i .
Paris, Jan. 27, 5:10 p. m. The Matin's Rome corres
ipondent says that the town of San Giovanni di Medua was
! evacuated ten da's ago in anticipation of an attack by the Aus-
irians and that all the guns were sent toBrindisi: The Serbian
' soldiers have gone to Durazzo, according to the correspondent. '
Berlin, Jan. 27, by Wireless to Say-
ville. The Cologne Volks Zeitung
publishes a dispatch from Cairo stat-
tag that the British in southern Ara
bia are in a dangerous position as a
result of fierce attacks by Arabs and
j Turks. It is stated the British casu
, alties up to December 30 amounted to
' 15,000 killed and 20,000 wounded.
j The number of British troops now
at Aden is given as 20,000. Quoting
' from the Volks Zeitung, the Overseas
: News Agency says:
"A wounded British major declnr-
ed that at the beginning of the war
;. the British were in possession of 250.
I 000 square kilometers in southern and
' southwestern Arabia, all of which
', has been lost. All the Arab chiefs
' joined the Turks and are using sue
' cessively against the British the arms
supplied by them."
1
Berlin. Jan. 27, via London, 11 15
a. m. Reports from France and Flan
ders say that a favorable turn in the
weather had been followed by active
fighting on the entire western front.
The heaviest fighting has been near
Nieuport, north, of Ypres and in the
Argonne.
German patroling parties brought
word that German artillery had dono
effective work against trenches of the
allies near Nieuport. The British ar
tillery, it was said, was hardly less
active than that of the Germnns. On
one section of the 'front the British
fired 1,700 shrapnel shells, 700 high
explosive shells and about the same
number of bombs within 24 hours.
In another section near Neuville
the Germans announced they had cap
tured three lines of French trenches
i
! ADVERTISE NOW-AND NEVER LET UP
t I say, "Be honest," because advertising doesn't
create value; it merely tells about it. The goods
' you advertise must possess the merit in themselves;
.! all the printers' ink in the world will not add to or
.; detract from the quality of the goods.
; I say, "Be sensible," because most people who
j read advertisements have good common sense, and
yet it is strange that a great many people when they
go to writing advertising copy talk about everything
! else but the thing they should talk about to interest
people in the thing they have to sell.
!! . I believe the main thing to do is to put down on
i paper what you would be likely to say orally, if you
IJ Were talking to a person.
J I say, "Be persistent," because people soon for-
! get. As I said in a former issue of The Standard,
( the hardest thing to find today is yesterday's news-
r ; paper. If you don't think so try to find one. Of
I ! course, it is absolutely necessary to advertise to sell
k goods immediately, but it is equally as important to
3 advertise to create a reputation for fair dealings,
SH prestige, or good will and every business house in
''I ' this city that intends to stay and build up a business
ij and make a competency for latter days must have
l j all of these qualities to succeed, and therefore I say
e3 ) again, above all things, "Be persistent.
3 i I will tell in next issue of The Standard where
$ sales really take place. This is particularly for every
, business man in this city.
& H. F. S., The Master Salesman.
j
and had held them against eight coun
ter attacks.
The Germans claim good progress
south of Arras through work of sap
pers and miners.
Little Fighting In Montenegro.
Rome, Jan. 26, 3 p. m. Robert
Maverick, one of the Americans who
had been sent, at the request of the.
Austrian government, to protect the
interests of Austrian prisoners of war
held by the Serbians, has returned to
Rome after a brief visit to Durazzo.
Pie says there has been little fight
ing in Montenegro and Albania and
that Austrians are not making any
useless efforts.
Many Prize Court Cases.
Berlin, Jan. 27, by Wireless to Say
ville. Reports from Dutch sources
say that the number of undecided cas
es now before the British prize courts
is so great that if peace were conclud
ed at the present time the courts
would be occupied for two years.
Germans Are Interned.
St. John, N. B Jan. 27. Herman
Fulkandort and "William Warren, Ger
man stewards of the American tug
boat Ramos of New York, were placed
in the Internment camp at Amherst
today, despite the protest of the tug
boat's captain. They were arrested
yesterday after the Ramos had ar
Irved here with a barge from Port
land, Maine.
Review of War Situation.
British possession of territory pro
tecting the Suez canal at its southern
end is imperilled by attacks made by
large bodies of Arabs and Turks on
the British forces in southwestern
Arabia, according to German advices.
The British have been driven from all
the territory held in that section and
have suffered heavy losses in the
fighting, the reports declare, -figures
being given at 15,000 killed and 20.000
wounded. The implication from the
(Berlin dispatch carrying these reports
is that the British army of 20 000 men
is now cooped up in Aden, which
must be held if the southerly approach
to the Suez canal is to be protected.
A situation quite similar to this was
reported through German agencies
several weeks ago, but London then
announced officially that no apprehen
sions were entertained of the outcome
'Austrians Hold Montenegro.
The Austrians, having secure pos
session of virtually all Montenegro,
its remaining defenders, according to
Vienna, are -fast laying down their
arms. At last accounts the Bulgarian
forces cooperating with the Austrians
had encountered the Albanian troops
under Essad Pasha and according to
unofficial advices, had met with a de
feat at the hands of the latter.
no
HOW SUBMARINE
ESCAPED NET
Commander of German U-17
Tells of Being Caught and
How Boat and Crew
Were Saved.
THRILLING EXPERIENCE
Craft Rises and Submerges
for Hours Before Being Able
to Elude English Tor
pedo Boats.
Budapest, Hungary, Jan. 27. (Cor
respondence of The Associated Press)
Naval Lieutenant Wenninger, com
mander of the German submarine
U-17 which torpedoed the French
steamer Graveline, gives the follow
ing description of how his submarine
was caught In. the net of an English
boat off the east coast of England and
how under the most difficult circum-,
stances he succeeded in saving the
boat and crew from capture.
He said that they left their base
early in the morning and passed into
the North sea, the boat being under
water with the periscope awash. "I
looked through the periscope," he
continued, "and could see a red buoy
behind my boat When ten minutes
later I looked I saw the buoy again,
still at the same distance behind us.
I steered to the right and then to
the left, but the buoy kept on follow
ing us. I descended deep into the wa
ter but still saw the buoy floating on
the surface above us. At last
I discovered that we had caught
floating on the surface above us. At
last I discovered the we had caught
the chain of the buoy and that we
were dragging it along with us. At
this time I also saw through the peri
scope that a strange small steamer
was steering a courso directly behind
us and the buoy. At the same time
ray sounding apparatus indicated that
a crew steamer was in the vicinity.
Observation revealed that five enemy
toi'pedo boats were approaching from
the north. I increased the speed of
the boat in the expectation of being
able to attack one of them. The five
torpedo boats arranged themselves In
a circle. I sank still deeper and got
ready for eventualities.
Caught In Net.
"At this juncture my boat began to
roll in a most incomprehensible man
ner We began to rise and sink al
ternately, the steering gear being ap
parently out of order. Soon after
wards, I discovered that we had en
countered a wire netting and were
hopelessly entangled in it. We had,
in fact, got Into the net of one of the
hunters surrounding us.
"For an hour and a half the netting
carried us with it, and although I
made every effort to get clear of it, It
seemed impossible. There was noth
ing to do but to increase the weight
in the submarine as much as possi
ble so that I might try to break the
netting. Fortunately when we start
ed I had pumped in from five to six
tons of water, filling all the tanks.
I increased the weight of the boat
to the utmost and suddenly we felt
a shock and were clear of the netting.
I then descended as deeply in the wa
ter as I could, the menometer show
ing thirty meters. We remained un
der water for eighteen hours. When
I wanted to ascertain where we
were, I noticed that my compass was
out of order. For a time I steered by
the green color of the water, but at
last I had to get rid of the ballast in
order to rise. I then discovered that
the menomeier continued to register
the same depth and was also out of
order. I had therefore to be very
careful not to rise too high and thus
attract the attention of the torpedo
boats. Slowly the periscope rose
nbove the surface and I could see the
enemy in front of me, and towards the
left, the east coast of England. I
tried to turn to starboard, but the
rudder did not work. In consequence,
I had to sink again to the bottom of
the sea where I remained for six
hours, at the end of which time I had
succeeded in putting the compass in
order and also in repairing the steer
ing gear. But upon rising this time,
we were detected by a torpedo boat
which made straight for us4 forcing
me to descend again. I remained
submerged for two hours, then turned
slowly outwards and at a distance of
some fifty meters from the leading
enemy craft passed towards the open
sea. At 9 o'clock in the evening we
were able to rise to the surface in
safety,"
WAR INVADES
MOUNT ATHOS
Bulgarian Monks Try to Oust
Brother Serbians From
Neighboring Monastery.
London, Jan. 27, 3:45 a. m. A dis
patch to the Times from Bucharest
says:
"The war has invaded the peace
ful seclusion of Mount Athos, where
Bulgarian Monks, from the Monastery
of Zographu endeavored to cast their
brother Serbians ' from the neighbor
ing Monastery of Chilianari.
The attack failed owing to the de
fenses of the Serbian Monastery,
whereupon the Bulgarians set fire to
n nnrtlnn nf Mm pt iiiof nro All tVlP.
monasteries on the Holy Mountain
were fortified In the middle ages in
order to resist pirates."
Athos mountain is on the eastern
most of the three Macedonian penin
sulas projecting into the Aegean sea
southeast of Saloniki. The peak rises
6.350 feet and is remarkablo for the
beauty of .the scenery. Numerous
monasteries are built on it, many of
them extending back to the fourteenth
century.
-uu
SHOPMEN DEMAND
FOUR-CENT RAISE
Employes of Three Railroads
Place Request Before Colo
rado State Industrial
Commission.
Denver, Colo., Jan. 27. With the re
coipts of notice from shopmen of the
Colorado Midland railroad the state
industrial commission had before it to
day demands of shop employes of
three railraods for an Increase of 4
cents an hour in wages.
The request of Denver fc Rio
Grande and Colorado and Southern
Shopmen for an increase was pre
viously presented.
WILLARD TO TRAIN
AT HOT SPRINGS.
Little Rock, Ark . Jan. 27. Tom
Jones, manager of Jee Willard, has
wired an acceptance from New Or
leans to a proposition of the Business
Men's league of Hot Springs for Wil
lard to train there. Jones says the
champ will be established about Fob
ruary 1. He is in New Orleans to see
the Fulton-Flynn match.
CONSCRIPTION
IS VOTED DOWN
National Labor Party Adopts
Resolution by Card Vote of
1,796,000 Against
219,000. l
LIBERTIES ENDANGERED
Conference Decides to Agitate
for Repeal, If Military Bill
Becomes Law.
Bristol. England, Jan. 27, 1:14 p. m.
A resolution protesting In the name
of the National Labor party against
tho adoption of conscription in any
form was passed by the labor con
gress today by a card vote of 1,790,
000 against 210,000.
The resolution follows:
"Resolved: That this National La
bor party protest emphatically against
the adoption of conscription In any
form as it is against the spirit of
British democracy and full of danger
to the liberties of the people."
When the delegates assembled to
day they found this resolution on their
tables and also one on the military
service bill, which were designed to
take the place of the numerous pro
posals which have been made on
these subjects.
The other resolution placed before
the congress follows:
"This conference declares Its oppo
sition to the military bill and in the
event of it becoming law, decides to
agitate for Its repeal."
Bristol, Jan. 27. 5:45 p. m. The
labor congress adopted by a vote of
1,176,000 against oG0, 000 a declaration
opposing the military service bill
which has been passed by parliament.
A proposal to agitate for its repeal
was defeated by 649,000 against 614,-000.
UNIONIST'S HONOR
SAMUEL GOMPERS
Over Fifty Thousand San
Franciscans Observe Birth
day of American Federa
tion President.
RAISE HATTERS' FUND
Twenty-five Thousand Dollars
City's Contribution to Re
lief of Danbury Workers.
San Francisco, Cal., Jan. 27. More
than fifty thousand San Francisco
trades unionists joined today in na
tionwide observance of the sixty-sixth
birthday of their leader, Samuel Gom
pers, president of the American Fed
eration of Labor, by devoting one hour
of their time to tho cause of the Dan
bury, Conn., hatters. More than ?25,
OOOwlll bo in this city's contribution,
it was announced by John A. O'Con
hcll. secretary of the San Francisco
laboi council. He said he expected
San Francisco to be tho largest contributor.
This form of observance was ap
proved by Mr. Gompers last Novem
ber at the convention here of the
American Federation of Labor to re
lieve the members of the United Hat
ters of North America whose savings
and homes were attached under a
judgment now amounting to about
$300,000 awarded to D. E. Loewe &
Co., In a Sherman anti-trust lawsuit
brought against the hatters because
of a boycott. The suit was instituted
in 1903, and went finally to the United
States supreme court which affirmed
the award January 5, 1915.
The federation, as an organization,
refused to aid the hatters but called
for voluntary gifts of one hour's pay.
Most of tho unions here arranged
to pay the equivalent of their mem
bers' contributions, out of the unions'
treasuries.
-oo
FRANCIS JOSEPH
GROWING WORSE
Vatican Circles Report Condi
tion of Emperor of Austria
Rapidly Growing More
Critical.
Rome, Jan. 27, via London, 3:05
p. m. It is reported In Vatican cir
cles that the condition of Emperor
Joseph of Austria, who has been ill
for several days, is rapidly growing
worse.
oo
JAPAN DENIES LONDON REPORT.
Tokio, Jan, 27. The London report
that the Japanese government had de
livered to the Chinese minister In To
kio a note embodying seven demands
which were included in the Japanese
program of last spring, was said by
the foreign office today to bo untrue.
DR. METCHJNJLKOFF
IS GRAVELY ILL
Dr. Elie Metchnikoff.
Dr. Elie Metchnikoff, noted bac
teriologist for a long time connected
with the Pasteur Institute at Paris,
is gravely ill with heart trouble. The
foremost physicians of Paris who
have been fighting for his recovery
have given up hope. Dr. Metchni
koff's most noted discovery was that
of using the milk treatment for in
testinal diseases. He was awarded
the Nobel prize for medicine in 1908.
SERIOUS FIRE
IN HOSPITAL
i
Thirty Patients in St. Joseph's
in Denver Driven From
Quarters Smoke Over
comes Nurses.
TWO FIREMEN HURT
Bookkeeper Collapses After
Dragging Sister Mary Ed
wards to Safetv.
Denver, Colo., Jan. 27. Thirty pa
tients at St. Joseph's hospital, driven
from their quarters late last night by
a fire which for a time threatened to
destroy a wing of the building, were
reported recovering from the effects
of their experience.
George Riley, a bookkeeper, is in
a serious condition as a result of be
ing overcome by smoke. He collapsed
after dragging to safety Sister Mary
Edwards, a nurse who was overcome
while endeavoring to ascertain the
source of the fire. Sister Mary Li
qouri, another nurse, was overcome
by smoke and two firemen were in
jured, one by a fall through a sky
light. The fire is thought to have origi
nated in a storeroom. The damage
was slight.
uu
UNION IRON WORKS
RIIVG. mC PI ANT
San Francisco, Jan. 27. Forced by
the demand for new ships to expand
its building plant, tho Union Iron
Works announced today that it had
pui chased the shipyard of the United
Engineering Works at Alameda,
across the bay from San Francisco.
The deal was said to involve nioro
than $1,000,000. The Union Iron
Works is a subsidiary of the Bethle
hem Steel company of Pennsylvania.
. oo
COLORADO RAISING
WAR RELIEF FUND
Denver, Colo , Jan. 27. Colorado
began its campaign to raise funds for
the Telief of impoverished Jews in the
European war zone. A mass meeting
was arranged for tonight in Denver
at which the canvass for funds was
to be formally launched.
Prosident Wilson's recent procla
mation setting aside today for col
lecrion of funds was supplemented a
few days by a proclamation by Gov
ernor Carlson calling upon citizens of
Colorado to contribute to the cause.
BLIZZARD RAGES 1
OVER COLORADO
Drifting Snow Threatens Rail- j
road Traffic and Endangers 1
Range Cattle Sixty-
mile Gale. ?J
DRIFTS 25 FEET HIGH i
Deer, Mountain Lions and
Wolves Seeking Food on a
Valley Farms. fl I
Denver, Colo., Jan 27. A tempera- S
ture of 54 degrees below zero at Hav- tl I
re, Montana, at six o'clock this morn- H
ing is reported In the statement of the '.f
local weather bureau today. Unusu- M
ally low temperatures prevail through-
out the northern Rocky Mountain dis- m
trict with a line of zero temperatures m V
through central Kansas, Iowa, western Jf
Minnesota and northwestward to i$ i
British Columbia. High temperatures M r
are reported east of the Mississippi. if 1
Snow and rain is indicated in the M
forecast over most of the Rocky Moun- fefi ;
tain district. M
Durango. Colo., Jan. 27. The bliz- If
zard which began Tuesday in south-
western Colorado continued today.
The drifting snow threatened railroad M
communication and endangered range ) Ij
cattle, according to reports received e
here. Government weather bureau nj j
records show a snowfall here of 44 , m
inches in the last two weeks. The w
temperature fell rapidly today. At fij
Cumbrea the wind was reported m I
blowing 60 miles an hour, piling the raj j
biiow in huge drifts, in some cases 25 Kg
feet high. li
Deer, mountain lions and wolves are jf
j reported seeking food on the valley m
farms. J
San Francisco, Jan. 27 Darkened j
skies, heavy rains along the coast and. , fw
the lowest barometric pressure ever l
reached in San Francisco were the J
opening phases today of what weather k I
officials said would be a storm equal- . lji
ing one just passed, which caused mil- . Bjj
lions of dollars of damage and a score fij
of deaths. . ; HI
Eery where communications began ' Kfl
to be shaky. "There's two feet of Bj
water in the telephone office," said an !
the wire, and the next instant his . m
wire was gone. The streets there and IJl
in Los Angeles ran cub-high, with Iflj
flood waters, and the rain still fell. Is
The town of Avalon, on Catalina isl- fj
and, which was burned out several jM
months ago, was flooded in portions l
today. Long Beach, an all-year resort IU
of 40,000 persons, reported itself flood- jjj
ed, as it was a week ago. Kl
Snow began falling again in the i
north, with a cold wave across Mon- j
tana. ' fill
There was not enough wind at noon j luC
to cause anxiety about shipping. , Ikj
oo K
FIFTY THOUSAND J
RATS MIGRATE ;
Rodents of Great Size and 111
Petrograd.
Petrograd, Jan. 27. (Correspond- j W
ence of The Associated Press.) A j ai
migration of rats, estimated at 50,000, R
surprised the residents of the city a i Sg
few days ago. The custom house dis- jRL
trlct and the grain markets of Petro- jjjH
grad are infested with innumerable ma
rats, often of large size and great Jlja
boldness. They go to water usually . Jjjj
in the stillest hours of the night In Wi
-serried ranks. Watchmen who see Jijjl
them In motion take pains to get out Jyj
of their way as they attack isolated J;
men when in numbers. There are tra- ,f U
ditlons that persons who have tried i KJj
to interfere with these armies of rats I Mi
have been overcome and killed and 'jjH
eaten. no
The last migration was by day and tjji
the route led across the Nevsky pros-
pect. Thousands were cut to pieces j (S
by the electric street cars and bands j
of boys and men killed many others. j j
This daylight migration was no doubt ! jfl
caused by the emptying of the grain ,
bins at the grain market Supplies jld
have been distributed recently direct- . Jjj
ly from the railway cars to the deal- IjjjU
ers and larger bakers. I tjj'
- I iHnl
) i is)
The ladies of Ogden are urged to be in their i j
seats at Orpheum Theatre Monday afternoon at j IB,
2:30. , 1
I II
Great interest is being shown in The Standard's I jfj
Second Annual Better Foods, Better Homes series j
of lectures, and a delightful treat is promised all J j
who attend Mrs. Vaughn's demonstrations. ' j rf
O .. j J"
January 31st to February 5th, inclusive, 1916. I
il:" ' ":Jr
1 COOKING SCHOOL ALL NEXT WEEK AT THE ORPHEUM THEATRE AT 2 R Mv j ;
I i
