i-.
THE COMINH CAMPAIGN.
Name olit Nmick, unnio old Ramp,
.Hnnic old charge! sntno old blame,
Same appeal to shop and farm,
Snnift old viewing with alarm.
Same old roorbacks ronrlng bock,
tin in e pppllblndtiur, loo, nlark:
Samo old racket far and wide,
Snrac old pointing out ullh pride.
Samo old I a riff, same old roar,
Samo old focmcn to tho fore,
Same old fusing, same old broil,
Same old linrnj. handed loll.
Same old hlufllng, same old fears.
Same old hisses, name old cheers, '
Some old boasting for effect,
Same old Utile to expect.
DEATH OF MIIS. MA 111 KINO.
Mrs. Mary King, aged 89 years, pass
ed awny at her home In Aberdeen
Wednesday morning after suffering
for so mo time from the Infirmities of
old age. She is survived by three
daughters nnd two sons Mrs. Grif
fith Hlett of Dayton, O., Mrs. Anna
Cnrrlgnnd and Miss Chid King of
Aberdeen; Mr. Dave King of Lewis
burg and Mr. James King of Aberdeen.
Tlio funeral arrangements will bo an
nounced later.
DEATH OF J. K. WEAVER.
Air. John Key Weaver died at his
home at Cottagevlllo, Lewis county,
Wednesday morning after a short ill
ness. The funeral will take place from
the Bethany Christian church Friday
morning at 10 o'clock. Burial in the
Dethany cemetery.
LUCKY TICKET.
Ticket No. 5,880 won the dishes
given away at tho Washington The
ater Wednesday night. Person hold
ing the ticket plcasa call for them.
If not called for by Friday another
drawing will be held.
Our prlco this week for buttcrfat,
32 cents MayBvlIIc. Bring it In nny
day, any timo of tho day, and recelvo
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
Mrs. Frank Eitel has departed for ' Prof. Calvunl, the renowned hypno
a several Weeks' visit in Cuba. 1 1!8, Kavo an exhibition of hla skill at
tho Washington Opera Houso Wednes-
Mr. G. C. Crover ot Mt. Olivet, wa3
In this city Wednesday,
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to thank our dihv friends and custom's for their liberal patronage for this.
eur fwrth year in Business, which has proven
wmcn wo are very amm.
We aro new looking forward to a greatly increased business tbs cotnine year and wo
have installed tlx latest and most improved eppent for handling yew orders, which gir
antees high grade nil work and satisfaction to all, at the best passible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
THE MASON LUMBER COMPANY mVSSST
a. A. Mclaughlin.
Well, Folks,
We Were Sorry You ALL
S Were Not Lucky
8 but there's another day, Washington's
J Birthday. Save your Tickets.
We have just finished our inventory,
and are now ready for another year. We
have the goods to sell you, at the right
prices; our entire time and attention is
9 given to the selection of goods for you;
f we anticipate your wants; try to make our
X store attractive to you; our working force
polite and attentive, and we cordially in
vito your patronage. We are here to do
business and have the goods and prices.
Can you find any excuse for going
elsewhere?.
Let us pull together for a bigger and
better Maysville.
I MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
Don't forget that the same tickets are good for the
second drawing on Washington's Birthday. Maybe
you'll be lucky enough to get the Maxwell.
EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATINA
TKY ONE PACKAGE. IT SOLVES THE BREAKFAST l'KOIILEM.
JUST TA1TEB ANOTHER BAKKKL OF THE FINEST NEW ORLEANS
MOLASSES EYER BROUGHT TO TOWN.
PERFECT SERVICE.
Under tbo co-operation plan which
the Home, Independent, Central,
Farmers nnd Planters warehouses aro
bolng operated, this season, tho Farm
ers of this section aro certainly being
benefited. Tho quickness with which
they unloaded wagons at thoso houses
during Monday's nnd Tuesday's rush,
proves that no better arrangement
could bo made than prevails horc.
Over three hundred wagons were un
loaded, In tho abovo mentioned houses
first two days of this week. Thoso ar
riving by noon were all unloaded and
tlfo owners on tholr wny homo before
dark, nnd tboso arriving early were
sold upon day ot their arrival. Not a
singlo wagon remnlncd outside. This
Is a great record and ono that could
not bo made under old conditions.
These houses nro not only taking earn
of overy person that comes to their
doors promptly, but they aro also get
ting tho top ot tho market for every
crop they sell. They have sold the
highest priced basket, highest priced
crop nnd their general average ex
ceeds tho average of the market. Their
houses will all remain open, night and
day, as long as there Is Tobacco to be
sold and If you go there you will cer
tainly be able to get in. The way they
aro handling Tobacco this year io
surely saving tho Farmers tlmo and
making them monoy. Wo congratulate
tho Home, Independent, Central,
Farmers and Planters wnrehodso com
panies upon their present arrange
ment becauso we know It was mado
for and is working to the benefit of
our farmers. W-Th
MASON COUNTY WOMAN 8UF
FHAOE LEAGUE.
Tho Mason County Woman's Suf
frage League will meet Thursday at
2 p. m. at the Public Library. Every
woman in Maysvllle and Mason coun
ty who has convictions on the subject
of woman suffrage or who believes
that tho present session of the Gen-
oral Assembly should pass the pend
ing woman suffrage amendment bill
. 13 urged to attend this meeting. The
combined small efforts of many wp
mcn can accomplish what no amount
of cfTort from a few women can ac
complish. Every woman has hex
measure of responsibility.
2t ALICE LLOYD, President.
day night and pleased largo audiences.
He will appear tonight.
to lu considerable beyond onr anticipation, for
L. N. BEIIAX.
9
M
s
9
1
STATE-WIDE DEFEATED
Stale Senate Voted 20 To 11 Against
the Prohlhjltoii Amendment
of Senator Frost.
Tho etnto wldo prohibition amend
ment bill wns defeated In tho Ken
tucky Scnnto Tuesday afternoon by a
voto of 20 to 14. Whca a poll of the
Senate was mado tho drys discovered
that a mistake had been made in forc
ing tho bill to a Vote at this time.
Senator Frost, author of the bill,
moved Hint It l)o made a special order
for Wednesday, February 2. Senator
Combs moved as a amendment that
tho bill bo immediately put upon Its
passage. JTho Combs motion passed
by a vote of 18 to Hi, A bitter fight
with Senator Frost taking tho lead for
the drys then ensued. Speeches on
both sides were long nnd took up most
of the afternoon. A vote was then
taken on tho state wide bill and it was
defeated.
Thoso voting for the bill wcro Sen
ators Frost, fllcnn, lilies, Montgom
ery, I'enk, Porter, Salmon, Scott nnd
Williams, Democrats; Antle, Evans,
Huntsman, Sanders and Taylor, He
publicans. Those voting against the measure
wore Senators Arnott, Iloolcs, Clay,
Combs, Helm, Hlldrcth, Huffakcr,
Knight, Llttrcll, Moore, Ovcrstrcct,
Itobcrtson, Speer, Strlckiett, Thomp
son and Trigg, Democrats; Urock,
Leach, licwls and Hnybiirn, Republi
cans.
Those not voting wcro Senator Ford,
who Is ill nt his homo In Georgetown,
and Senators Itogcrs and Zimmerman.
All nro Democrats.
Tho bill provided for a vote by the
people In 1917 to prohibit the salo of
Intoxicating liquors in Kentucky after
June, 1919, and the manufacture of in
toxicating liquors In Kentucky for sale
after 1921.
That tho Houso will devote a day
to State wide, notwithstanding the
Senate action, Is considered certain.
If the committee refuses to report It
will take two-thirds of the House to
call the amendment out, and there
aro a lot of the representatives who
want to get on record, especially since
they feel safe about?' the Scnato posi
tion. In tho Senate party lines were
obliterate. Senators Rogers, Ford and
Zimmerman, Democrats, were absent.
Antle, Evans, Huntsman, Sanders and
Taylor, Republicans, voted for It; and
Brock, Leach, Lewis and Rayburn
against It.
EXAMINING TRIAL
Of Harry Itctmker. Charged With
Arson, Results In lloml Ilelng
liaised To $2,:00 Held To
the Grand Jury.
Wednesday afternoon before a
crowded houso the examining trial of
narry Rcnakcr and Eneas Williams of
Cynthlana, wns held by County Judge
W. H. Rice. Attorney W. H. Rees con
ducted the examination for the county.
Hon. A. D. Colo was attorney for tho
defense. Capt. Speed HIbbler of the
L. & N., FIro Marshal G. T. Helm,
Chief of Polico Mackey, Special Officer
ThomaB Stewart nnd others testified
in behalf of tho commonwealth.
Tho defenso waived tho right to tes
tify and tho case was hold over to the
March term ot tho Mason Circuit
Court and tho bond of Rcnakcr was
Increased from $1,000 to $2,500, which
ho promptly gave.
Williams was also held over to the
grand Jury with bond at $2,000. Ho
was recommitted to jail In default of
bond.
CITY MISSION ItlHTHDAY PARTY.
Tho annual birthday party of tho
City Mission held at tho Homo on Sut
ton street Wednesday afternoon, was
largely attended.
Tho rooms were beautifully decor
ated for the occasion and the ladles
Board ot Managers, with Mrs. Peddl-
cord and daughters, acted as host
esses. A buffet luncheon wns served by
Misses Mayme Pecor and Mary Wood
on tho second floor, whllo music was
furnished by a Vlctrola.
Throughout tho afternoon a stream
of visitors poured into building and
each person contributed as many
pennies as ho was old. About $65 waB
collected and others will mako contri
butions later.
Tho management wishes to thank
tho Maysvlllo Tea & Coffee Company
for tho donation of tho coffee used for
the affair.
OKOltdi: W. M'llANIKL & COMPANY
MAKES ASSIGNMENT.
Wednesday In Court Court James
N, Collins, assignee of 0. W, McDanlel
and Oeorgo Mitchell, appeared In court
and was sworn in with C. L. Wood as
surety on bond. A committee com
posed of B. W. Johnson, Thelso
OweiiB and J. W. Ilramel was appoint
ed to appraise tho property.
CIIA'HlEH OF COMMERCE IN NEW
QUARTERS.
Tho Chamber of Commerce has re
moved its hendqunrtcrs from tho
(Standard Dank building to Rooms 2.r,
and 2G In the First National Rank
building on the fifth floor. This Is
a splendid location, commanding n
good vlow of the city and will holp to
Insure Hurccus for this Institution.
IIOLIIINOvEXAMIXATIONS.
The public schools of this city are
conducting the mld-yoar examinations
this week. Many ot the pupils nro ex
empt from thesu examinations, having
gained the required nvcrngo In their
work. - ;
LAST CALL ON FURS.
Professional grader will grade your
furs every Saturday until the season
closes. FARM KltH PRODUCE, COM
PANY, Receivers of Eggs nnd Poultry.
Phono 398.
HOTEL MOVED HERE.
The Ynger Hotel, for years located
nt Augusta, lias been removed to this
city and Installed In tho Yancey prop
erty opposite tho Hnll Plow Works.
MAIL ORDERS PROMPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices are right. Order
today. Poyntz Ilros., Covington, Ky.
Rev. J. W. Simpson, the preacher
lawyer, has desk room In the ofllce of
Attorney Frank P. O'Donncll In tho
First Nntlonnl Bank building, where
he will be glnd to ecc his friends.
Romp one by mistake took Mr.
James Rains' overcoat from the office
of the a rowers warehouse Tuesday,
and they can get theirs by returning
the olio they have.
Mr. Hruco Haley, who had the mis
fortune to fall and break his leg sev
eral weeks ago, la improving and will
soon be himself again.
Mrs. Charles K. Fitzgerald and son.
Gerald, of St. Louis, nro visiting Mrs i
Dennis Fitzgerald of West Third 1
street. i
Mr. R. A'. Carr, Jr., of Uie Cornell I
Publicity Company, is in Cincinnati I
for a few days in the Interest of the
firm.
Hunt's Sale of
Undermuslins
Xever were st. les so pretty, nml so becoming yes,
Mutually becoming. Never were the materials so dninty
nml attractive. And never did there seem such an end
less collection of pretty, yet inexpensive, garments as wo
are presenting in our 21 st sale of Muslin Underwear.
Where shall details begin in such a bewildering maze
of fltifl'y finery?
$1.25 Petticoats
Wonderfully pretty. Cut on new graceful lines.
Just the daintiest skirts you can imagine.
25c and 50c Corset Covers
Absolutely simple or dainty with lace, good embroid
eries and soft sheer mnterials.
Mr. W. P. Dowiuan of Vnnccburg,
was In Maysvlllo Wednesday attending
tbo tobacco sales.
Saturday Will Be Red Letter Day
Double btamps Last Day To Get Doll Tickets
Saturday begins our After-Inventory Sale. On every $2 purchase or over on Saturday we shall give a
Silver Souvenir Spoon. Only one spoon to each customer. Come Saturday with the CASH prepared to
buy some great bargains. Besides the goods offered in the big sale we shall ofter the following:
LADIES' Sl'lTS-Clioli-e of block at H price.
LADIES' FANCY COATS ro ut H price.
LADIES' IILACK COATS !W's discount.
ClllMHi:VS COATS-Clioke at U price.
FTHS Our stock iroes ut 14 price.
LAWKS' HATS Choice ot any hat for IWc
CHIMHtKYS HATS-Chloco Wr.
CIIILDKEN'S Ifi HAIX CAMS l.
LADIKS' 1UIKSSKK- Out) lot north up lo --'. to io nt $1.93 to l.98.
LADIF.S' 1IHKSSKS -The balance of our block less .'Cl'j' yc discount.
HOl'SK DKF.SSKS- All lu block go ut C9c.
20th ANNIVERSARY
Of Hie- Consecration of HIhIio L. W.
Ilurlnii of This Episcopal
Diocese.
With impressive ceromoulcs extend
ing through two days, Episcopalians
of control Kentucky will colcbrnto tho
twentieth annlvcrsnry of tho conse
cration of Illshop Lewis W. Burton
nnd the establishment of tho dloceso
of Lexington nt Christ Church cathe
dral nt Lexington Sunday and Mon
day, Jnnuary 30 and 31.
Plans for tho colebratlon wcro an
nounced Wednesday. Among tho prom
inent speakers on tho program aro
Dlshop Gallon of Memphis, and Bishop
Woodcock of Louisville. A brilliant
banquet will concludn tho program.
FOR SALE,
S. C. R. I. Red and Golden Lacod
Wyandotto Cockcrols. Eggs for hatch
ing. Satisfaction guaranteed. S, H.
Mitchell, Mnysllck, Ky.
The Ladles' Aid Society of the For
est Avcnuo M. E. church will meet
Thursday nftcmoon nt 2 o'clock nt tho
homo of Mrs. Charles Cox of Central
avenue. All members urged to be
present.
THE HDME DF QUALITY CLOTHES
It isn't fair to judge this sale of Suits and Overcoats by the reduction alone.
While the savings are considerable, it is not hard to find offers that appear as im
portant but what are the brands of the Suits and Overcoats offered?
Here we offer makes of standard values; you know what they are worth. R.
B. Fashion Clothes; Stein-Bloch; Michicls, Stem & Co.; Hirsh-wickwire and So
ciety Brand.
$20 for $22.50 and $25 Suits and Overcoats.
$15 for $16.50 and $18 Suits and Overcoats.
$10 for $12.50, $13.50 and $15 Suits and Overcoats.
The vastness of assortment precludes any possibility of your being disapp
pointed in not getting the style and cloth you want.
If you arc "hard-to-fit," this is your opportunity. We have models to fit men
of every build.
Mr. Terry Cahlll, Jr., of Georgetown, Mr. C. F. Henry of Georgetown. O.,
was In this city Wednesday attending was a visitor on tho Maysvlllo tobac
tho tobacco sales. co market Wednesday.
: BIUGerass Creamery Butter I
g Per Pound 35 Cents ,n lons g
g Made in Maysville and We Get It Fresh Every Day.
It Sure Is Good.
s DING EH BROS. 107 VtSS s,roc'-
Mr. S. II. Cahlll of Ripley, wns In
this city Wednesday.
m BIG SPECIAL SALE NO. 4
FOR FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
5 Best Machine Oil
S Can All For
Splendid For Sowing Machines, Etc.
5 M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY 8
firing Us Your Laundry.
1
Rev. Father P. M. Jones of St. Pat
rick's church, has returned homo from
Extra Size Gowns $1.25
"Women wlto wear size 4G and 48 are invited to see
the new, specially cut, nightgowns. Plenty long and
wide and with large comfortable armholes.
Envelop hemise 50c, $1
The daintiest of laces and embroideries arc combined
with soft, fine, but durable fabrics in these undergar
ments. Judge every other assortment in the sale by these,
nnd you will liavp ample and delightful proof of its wor
thy values.
What Would You Do?
Suppose you had the best Suits in Maysville, or any
where, to sell for $12.50. Tho best in tailoring, in cloth
and lining, in smart styles. Suits that sell regularly for
.f25. Suits that now sell "at sight."
"What would do to interest women who haven't seen
theinj
That's our problem. Can you help us solve it?
SKATIXU COATS Worth $5-$l.9S. W
CHILDltEN'S Tl'll )HKSSi:S-One lot Morlh up to $3, OSc. One
lot worth up lo tlo, .'.Of. W
ClIILIUtKN'S WOOL JWESSES oue-half price.
LADIES' COLOHEI) PETTICOATS 09e, worth up to f'2. A
SHOES 10,c dlscouut. 7
LADIES' 311'SLIN IHIAAVEHS The best Sue mlue ou the market, W
.'I for SI.
CHILDKE.VS MI'S LIN inttWEItS Trimmed with embroider X
Khtc 2 to li j earn, 10c, W
.MISSES 311'SLIN DH UVKItS -Worth 0c, hale price 3 for 25c. A
SHOES Wc discount.
' FOR SALE Household furniture.
( Ernlo Ort, 30 East Third street. 3t
HHHIINIIImiHHI
and Q 4. m
O VGlllS 3
Wo Arc Agents For tho Modern.
Covington, where ho has been under
going treatment.
Mr. J A. Mcltoberts of Grange City,
was In Maysvlllo Wednesday on business.
.(npisiL ftoomut
