II?ES I DENT ' S OFF I CE
I1EHT.A COLLECSE
DEN E A KY
KOMI
The citizen
E2REA rVZUSHMC CO.
wm. o. raorr. cw
C H. wunmncn. ta
Knowledge It power ad t(M
y to keep up with io)ra
knowledge it U read ged
newspaper.
P. O. BOWMAN, At
tmtn4 m tkt Pn.w m trrm, a., at miM
Devoted to tto.e Interests of tle :tgoua.taixi !Poo;ple
Vol. XVII.
Five Cent a Copy.
RFRF.A, MADISON COUNTY, KENTUCKY, JANUARY 27. lOlrt.
One Dollar a Year.
No. 31.
Prepare for War and for Peace
The President, Congress, and the chief men of our
nation are now studying and talking about Preparation.
We have been thinking that the best protection
was good-will like that which kept us at peace with Can
ada along a long frontier which had hardly a fort or a
picket. But we find that good-will sometimes changes
to sudden hate.
And we have been thinking that no one could trans
port an army across the sea, or dare attack a nation with
such resources as ours. But the present war shows that
a weaker nation like Germany can by better preparation,
push back far larger armies than its own.
So the nation is going to follow the President's
program of greater preparation for war.
But at the same time we are making preparation for
peace. The goverment is combining with other neu
tral nations to settle a law of nations. As good law,
well enforced, keeps the peace between neighbors, so a
law of nations can promote peace among nations.
Selfishness in Promoting War
While we are all agreeing, Republicans and Demo
crats alike, to have a better army and navy, we must
note the fact that some folks are crying out for prepara
tion for war just for their own gain. People who make
a business of fighting or making fighting tools are al
most certain to be too ready to start a war, and to keep
it up.
THRIFT DAY
A New Campaign to Institute February 3d as Annual Thrift Day
There is at the present time being
conducted in this country a cam
paign which is worthy of the deep
est consideration by every man. wo.
man and child. bcraue upon it sue.
ressful operation will depend our
increased national, community and
individual progress. It is the move,
meiit which lias been designed to
bring into greater evidence and
practice everywhere the inestimable
quality of thrift a quality which
lias more to do w it li ultimate success
than any other tine factor.
Educators, economists, and. in fact,
all constructive th inkers have long
recognized the growing necessity for
the practice of greater thrift on the
part of American citizens if our na
tional welfare is to be permanent
and substantial. One only has to
glance at history to realize that ex
travagance, in its disastrous effects
upon national welfare, may be lik
ened to the rapidly spreading para
site vine which, wrapping itself
around the mighty t ak. draws upon
the very life and sustenance until
the grand old tree decays, crumbles
away and llnally topples over.
Without thrift, failure, dissatisfac
tion and discontent are inevitable,
whether in the life of the nation,
corporation, home or individual, and
individual thrift is the foundation
, ul.i. l. is established coiiiniuii-!
i. i I tlififi
nj HUH lint ,i ,..,..
lief..,-., the iodividiinl call be
petted to practice thrift, nwever, would be advanced by the practice
he must understate! in what it really of greater thrift and economy is one
consists, perhaps the foremost leas- j that should receive the active co
on that the word thrift is a distaste-; opera! ion of all.
CONTENTS
PAGE 1. Editorials: Prepare for
War and for Peace; Selfishness
ill Promoting War. Thrift lay.
Our Own Stale News. United
Slates News. World News.
PAGE 2. College Ih'pnrtmcuts.
PAGE 3. Serial: Lalioma. Litera
ture for Rural Schools. In the
World of Sports. Story: lie
Knew Too Much.
PAGE 4. Locals.
PAGES. Local News.-English Let
ter from Treasurer Osborne's
Brother-in-law.
PAGE 6. Mountain Agriculture:
Government Live Stock Report;
Third Annual Anti-Hog Cholera
Conference) Home licpartincnt:
Home Science Hints; Economy
Hints. Cincinnati Markets.
PAGE 7. Internal ionul Sunday
School Lesson, Gems in Verse.
Comic Pictures. The Scrap
Book.
PAGE I. East Kentucky News.
i
State Department Cede.
The eecret rode book of the atate
departiueut are guarded moat care
fully. Life la to be expended at auy
time to defend them. In fact, they
are guarded ae carefully aa the code
book of the navy, whose cover are
eo beery that when tbrowo Into the
sea In cae of emergency they will
elnk Instantly. Leslie's.
fill one to the ears of many of our
citizens is that for years
country there has been a
in mis
general
misconception of the term.
Thrift is not, as many suppose,
niggardliness or stint in the necessi
ties and sane enjoyments of life; in
reality, it makes available more
money for the things which make
life really worth while through the
elimination of unnecessary and use
less expenditure.
It
is something more than saving.j
it means "earning, working, plan- ",, , r, , wiln ,lftv.
n.ng and increasing, as well as con- jnK jn h(.jp ,ion for
serving." It Is cmnmon sense in arl , T(0 al hp ,ik.o
tual operation in every phase of hu-1 (iffl(.p ,at ,,,, ,,.
man endeavor and activity. t ti, r jv((, OV(1 flf, iln.
Rightly understood, the practice- a InonM
of thrift becomes a positive pleasure,
for it is a w is; adaptation of means Son of Scotland; Gather in Annual
toward a benetlcent end-the con-1 Memorial to Robert Burn. In Isl
slant maintenance of a fair standard
of comfort and an increase of life's
enjoyments and a lessened share of
its burdens with the flight of years. !
The earninic power of the people
of the United States is very great. Jhirns, and toasted the success of the
but their saving propensity is less, Hritish empire and above all the
fully developed than could be wish-, continuance of the supremacy of the
ed. though we are far from being a;l "itetl States.
mil i. mi of spendthrifts. No doubt. by Twenty-six men. hound by the tie
a proper utilization of the opportune"' love for a poet who played so re
ities of Thrift dav. much valuable isponsively on the heart strings of
educational work could lie done, ami ,
t he suggestion to set aside one day
of Mie vene for the unl oose of show-!
.
ex-ihur our people how their welfare
'i.ahoma" is drawing to a close.
II is hciiiK enjoyed bv many. We,
would like to heir from o:;r readers , where an immigrant from any other
as to what you would like for our country could come and feel sure
next serial. "f '"'''dom.
j )r. Alexander St. Clair Mackenzie
Page two is becoming a gn at fa-, responded to the toast. "The Mem
vorite of the student bo. - a' is ei-fry o' Robbie Burns." Ho also sang
deuced by the number ,f suits -rip-several songs in Scotch brogue,
lions coming in. Students, you can Professor James Rood Robertson,
not tlnd a better way to get the pews or Berea College, responded to the
home than to send THE CITIZEN, toast, "Auld Scotia." He compared
of course the home people like to, the mountain folk of Kentucky to
read what is going on where the, the Scotch Highlanders, and review
children Bre. Come around to the ed the struggles of the Scotch nation
office and take advantage of the,
fountain pen deal.
We have only one ladies' watch
left, it's a beauty ami a bargain.
Come to THE CITIZEN office and ex
amine it you will want it sure.
The price will suit you and the
watch will keep your time.
Read the Mountain Agriculture
Department on page six. There are
some very important things that
you ought to know. Follow the sug
gestions of your County Agent; he
knows what he is talking aUtut.
t
UAmaeotjnne.
Tommy had a profound contempt for
the little hoy ueit door, who threw a
ball like a girl, eeldum bad on any but
clcau shirt, aud who geuerally wore
glove.
"Do you know why he' a sImjT
asked Tommy of bla aunt "If 'cause
he look Juat Ilk bla mother, and that
bow be' got girl blood la
Harper' llagastne.
III OUR OWN STATE
The Norfolk Western railroad, it President Wilson, cm the 2ilh, be
in announced, is planning a line from an leeding up the marhinery of
llonnker. Va.. Into the F.lkhorn ronl Congress lo rlear the way for his
Ileitis) of Kenturky. defense programme, discussing var-
i Ions appropriation hills and other
The Kenturky delegation voted.
solidly for the Shackelford (iood
ftoads Kill, which passed the House
'.'HI to 81. t'nder its provisions Ken
lucky would receive r80,27t annu
ally. Tlm Slnte Seoul delivered a tleris-
ive blow to prohibition the 25th Inst,
by voting, after a heated four-hour
tlebnle. against the Frost State-wide
amendment measure, twenty to four
teen. An effort by the "drys" to de
lav action was defeated first.
ti... i...... ,.r n. fi,.i,
Legislature on Monday of this week , "I'ned the way for increasing the
passed two bills introduced by Rep-, rate on great fortunes to help
resentative William A. Perry. nf,carrT out ' national defense pro
Louisville, one providing a fine for gramme,
untruthfulness in advertising and
the other giving a person whose 11 reported that the stamp tax
propcrtv is sold for taxes a year af- " ar l,n ''". "'
ter becoming of age to redeem the a'''1'1'"'1"1 f',,l,'rl revenues are to
pr. rtv. The Frost State-wide pro-i'" "I'taine.l through a duty on sugar
liiiiilioti Kill In (ho Sennt.i itnactfttt if '
se, d reading without opposition.
, I Firmer Shot by Hit Mother-in-Law
I In the Cumberland River section
of the I.etcher-llarlan border a snoot
jing took place in which .lames Mc
.Crey wa severely wounded by his
mother-in-law, Mrs. Mary Jones.
McCrey received four wounds in the
region of the thurhs. The trouble
arose over the woman's daughter
which led to the shooting.
Bootlegger Rounded Up in Irvine
Within the last three weeks since
R. !. I'hilpot assumed the oftlce of
chief of police of Irvine, plans have
been quitely laid for rounding up the
suspects for bootlegging. Evidences
were presented to Judge Barker
uliii'li liavn fanan.l a nomlutv lit
, , . . . - .
ington, January 25th
Highlander. I.owlander Celt and
Britisher gathered at
hoard in the Phoenix
honor to the memory
a banquet
lintel, paid
of Robert
-u " " iu,. m.-
people, were present at the banquet
lor tlie Calet oniiins. ot all were
of the Caledonians. Not all
N'olcli,
but the love of a true man,'
no matter what his nationality,
brought them to lay tribute at the'
sliriue of (he man who said: I
"(ive me a spark of nature's tire !
That's all the learning I desire."
All the speakers pointed to the
United States as the one country
and their tenacity. In all parts
of
the world he declared Scotch were to
be found on the frontiers of civili
zation and wherever strong, sturdy
men of integrity and independent
minds were needed.
"The Emerald Isle" was the toast
of Mayor James C. Rogers.
J. Jones responded to the toast,
"John Bull." Mr. Jones touched up
on England's love of peace and her
desire to do all in her power to
furl her the cause of civilization as
opposed to militarism.
)r. J. A. Goodsnn responded to the
toast, "Uncle Sam," .the nation which
he said was the best of all combina
tions, the composite Ireland, Scot
land. England and all other nations.
Music for the banquet was furn
ished by Robert W. Angus, Joe Ryan
and Roy Miller. Roy Miller sang
several solos and Joe Ryan led in the
singing of "Tipperary."
The banquet was . brought to a
close by the singing of "Auld Lang
8yne,M with arms interlocked.
U, S, NEWS
"'"gauon witn various memi.ers.
Preliminary plans for holding the
Republican National Convention
were approved in Chicago the2ith.
Republican leaders indicated they
would favor any compromi e randi-
dale except Roosevelt. Seats for II,-
!!5 persons are to be provided.
The income tax was declared con
stitutional by the Supreme Court of
the United Stales in a unanimous de.
rision which swept aside every con
tention raised against it, and in the
'opinion or congressional leaner
and increased taxes on
large
in-
Speaker Champ
Clark
op-
j posed the stamp taxes.
President Wilson, on the 25th, out
lined to Chairman Kitchin, of the
House Ways anil Means Committee,
his views on the need for a tariff
commission and the powers it should
have.
U. S. GETS NEW
LUSITANIA NOTE
Settlement ot Controversy Now
Predicted.
AGREEMENT IS REACHED
State Department Official Deny Unl
ted State Is Preparing to Address
New Note to Austria Over Sinking
of the Ancona.
Washington, Jan. 25. Count Ton
Pernstortf Is understood to have re
ceived from bis government a new
note to the United States on the Lusi
tania controversy. Although the Ger
man embassy refused either to con
firm or deny the report that such a
note bad arrived. It was confidently
predicted In these quarters that a set
tlement of the controversy Is about
to take place. The ambassador prob
ably will call at the state department
and present the communication to
Secretary Lansing.
Earlier In the day the statement
was made in several quarters that the
note had actually been presented at
the department. Secretary Lansing
denied this report flatly.
For two weeks the German em
bassy has been expecting to receive
word from lerlln which would enable
the ambassador to effect a final set
tlement of the controversy. At the
last Interview between himself and
the secretary of state, the two bad
reached an agreement, it Is said, on
all features of the proposed agree
ment except the language to be used
In the disavowal asked of Germany.
Following this Interview a former ex
pression, suggested by Mr. Lansing
and approved by the president, was
forwarded to Uerlln by Count von
nernstorff. with a suggestion from the
ambassador, it is understood, that If
possible the expression be approved
at that end.
In view of the confidence expressed
in German circles. It Is believed the
German government has now met tbe
ambassador' views.
Officials of the state department de
nied reports that the United States
was preparing to address a new note
to Austria characterising as unsatis
factory certain features of the last
Austrian note on the sinking of th
Ancona.
22 ARRESTED AFTER RIOT
Rockford (III.) Striker and Police
men and Deputy Sheriff Clash.
Rockford. III., Jan. 15. Twenty-two
men were locked up here following a
fight between deputy sheriffs, police
men and rioters at the 8pengler
Loomls company plant. Nine men
were discharged by the company.
Two women employes of tbe com
pany were roughly handled when they
attempted to enter th plant. Tbe
sheriff forces then attacked the march
ers and aeveral rioter were clubbed,
but none was seriously Injured.
Police reinforcement arrived and
th officer soon suppressed th trouble.
WORLD NEWS
It has been reported during the
week, that Germany offered to make
peBce with Belgium by herself, but
no acceptance of the offer has been
noted. The terms that Germany
made to Montenegro were so unsat
isfactory that the Montenegrins have
not yet laid down their arms.
Sweden and Norway, two of the
neutral states of Europe, have asked
the United Stales to join them in an
effort to check the attempt of Great
Britain to press her blockade of tier,
many to the extreme limit. They es
pecially oppose the interference
w ith the mails and the effort of Great
Britain to shut nut trade from neu
tral ports on the ground that such
trade eventually reaches Germany.
Reports indicate that General Vil
la, the Mexican bandit leader, who
is carrying out a policy to kill or
drive from Mexico all Americans,
has been surrounded in the moun
tain district around Chihuahua by
the soldiers of Carranza.- According
to some reports he has been cap
tured. The military system of Switzer
land, the little mountain republic of
Europe, is receiving much attention
at present from the United States.
The Swiss have perfected a plan
which gives them a strong army of
defense without creating the mili
tary spirit in an extreme form. Those
in our country who favor a greater
"preparedness" are examining it
with much care.
The Russians have entered during
the week, the Persian city of Hama
dan. This is the place noted for his
toric associations. It is the Shushan
of the Old Testament, and claims to
possess the tombs of Queen Esther
and Mordekai the Jew. As a treas
ure city of Persia it was pillaged by
Alexander the Great.
The Jew is playing a strangely
important part in the European
War. While the nations engaged
furnish, as a rule, less than fifty per
cent of their population ,for the
armies, the Jews furnish sixty-eight
per cent of their population, living
in the different countries and are
fighting on different sides. Moreover
the war is drifting more and more
in the direction of the "Holy Land.
PRINCE CYRIL OF BULGARIA
Younger Son of the
Czar ef the Bulgars.
Photo hv Amrlrn fre Ancltlo!.
DOVER ATTACKED
BY AEROPLANE
Germans Renew Aerial Bom
bardment of England.
SCUTARI IS CAPTURED
Largest Trading City In Albania Taken
by Austre-Hungarian Troop After
Tsmflo Two-Day Battle Turks
Plot Against Envsr Pasha.
London, Jan. 25. Close uion the
receipt here of an official Berlin re
port announcing that a German naval
atxovlaa boubtrded. Dover during th
'V;V s,
DAVID LLOYD GEORGE
aye England le Ready
to Deliver Blew la War.
Fhote bjr American Prase Association,
London, Jan. 25. David Lloyd
George, minister of munitions, de
clared In an Interview that England
Is preparing to deliver a blow that
must be felt by Germany. He called
attention to the organization of one
of the world's greatest armies by Eng
land, in addition to her already over
powering fleet. England, he said, has
undergone an Industrial reorganiza
tion as well.
nlghTT the" official" press bureau" an
nounced another visit to tbe channel
port by a German aeroplane during
the afternoon. The statement does
not say whether bombs were dropped,
but states that the German craft was
engaged by British defence guns and
pursued by two machines.
Tbe main British Mesopotamia army
surrounded by the Turks at Kut-El-Amara,
Is well supplied. There has
been no attack on tbe fortress since
the Turks closed their ring around.
These are the main points In a re
port received from General Sir Percy
Lake, commander-in-chief of th Brit
ish in Mesopotamia.
The statement is construed at mean
ing that there Is no cause for fear
that the force will be starred out in
the Immediate future and it strength
ens the hope that the relief force, un
der General Aylmar, which Is now six
1 miles east of Kut-El-Amara, at Essian,
' facing the strongly entrenched Turks,
will eventually break through and re
lieve the main force.
' A success by the British force In
Egypt I reported In a message re
ceived by the war office by General
Alexander Wallace. A British column
attacked and broke up the camp of
the Senoussi tribe, which recently rose
against the British.
Scutari, the largest trading city In
Albania, and the last great stand of
the combined Montenegrin and Serv
ian armies, was captured by the Aus-tro-Hungarlan
troops after a desper
ate battle which has been raging for
two day.
According to Vienna official die
patches, many thousand Servians and
Montenegrins, who remained In the
garrison after the battle, retreated to
the south without offering any resist
ance. The Austrian also have oc
cupied Nikslc, Danilovgrad and Pod
gorltza. The Russians are continuing their
advance against the Turks In the Cau
casus. Petrograd says the Turks are
making a precipitate retreat In the
region of Enerum, and that the Rus
sians are capturing prisoners and am
munition and other supplies. The
roads are strewn with Turkish dead.
The Russians also are on the offen
sive against tbe Teutons south of Dub
no, one of tbe Volbynlan triangle of
fortresses, and on the Dniester and
Pruih rivers In east Gallela.
Fifty thousand German troops have
arrived at Constantinople, according
to Salonica dispatches. British corre
spondents express the view that tbe
object of this army is not an expedi
tion against Egypt, but to support the
authority of the Turkish war minister,
Enver Pasha.
Greek reports say that the Turk
recently have been restive under the
rule of Enver Pasha, and serious plot
against him have been discovered,
these being suppressed ruthlessly.
CONFISCATE SERVIAN PROPERTY.
Berlin. Th Tage Zeltung'i Buda
pest correspondent, say that conflsc.
tlon bas been ordered or property val
ued at (3,000,000 crowns owned by
Serbians living In Bemlln, who are
naturalised Hungarians. Most ot those
affected, who are mostly merchants,
had fled from th city, leaving behind.
It la said, Hungarian and Austrian cred
itor. Th Hungarian government
will sell part of th property at
Uoa to satisfy th claim, (
r . ., jf T f -4-.
eyk 'makjtfm
