VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
I3URLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1916.
NUMBER 31.
iERLII CLAIMS 39
Drnpir if it i pn m
LUI LL I1ILILU 111
ilso That 20 More "Were Wound-
ct! Transport Anchored hi
the Harhor Was Damaged by
J'onib and Sank at Onee.
ENGIJD FEARS ZEPPELINS
London Populace Warned
Montenegrin Government Re
ported to Have Signed Ar
ticles for Laying Down Arms
Venizelos Prosecuted.
llerlm, Jan V; (wirr1-s tn Favvillci.
Hie Hamburger Frcmdcnhlalt reports
that one of the bombs (Iroiiptil bv the
'Jcrmnn nlr squadron when H milled
Drover on Mnnd.iv Ml on a deposit of
mines will li explodil nnd caused
piiormoii" devastation in in.- ncignnor-
linnd Tlilitv-nlno persons, Including one
nffircr iiml '.M soldiers tin- newspaper
savs, were klllrd
At ordlng ti tne I- V mdonhlntt s He
re int tin explosion did not taUe pint'
I..,., fifteen minutes nftir the liomli liml
anded so tlmt tin- soldiers at llrst be-
Utved thn missile was h-imilcss. Railroad
tars filled with provisi m and seveml
nttiges aie 1 i-l Hi 1 to liavi been dc
troyed (Hie transport atnlioied In the harbor
vns damaged h lhe explosion and Funis
Immediately.
Twenty sovciclv wounded persons were
transported to a London hospital.
The OrHlsh aeioplanes. the newspaper
sas, weie not ready in time for de
le n-c
London. Jan 'X. A police warning Is
sued to-night indicates the authorities
ipeet a speedv resumption nf Zeppelin
raids on Iondon and that the dimmer
whloli the popnlaee will he exposed on
Kindt occasions Is greater than ever. The
a ning reads-
TI e in lease In offensive protection
ralnsi hostile alrernft recently provided
t'i met -opnlltan district make- It morn
nieces-Mr tha the public nil the occasion
air raids take i-ovi r. so as to he
slielti
red from falling fragments
fchclh
Berlin Jin :o wireless to Pawillc -The
lelecates of the Montenegi in government
six o'i lot k ia-o night signed nrtlelo-
iifvldliipr for the laying down ot the
unis of the Montenegrin forces, accord
ing 'o a i ai noiinceiiient made to-day by
lhe A js'ro-11 uignr Ian headquarters.
iisrn-lfiincarian troops the statement
fields, oceupied portions of the Italian
B-'oMtionn near Oslavla and took prisoner
J, '87 soldiers. Including t'i otlicers.
BPilIn, Jan K, wlieless to SaMille. The
olla newspaper l'tio prints a despatch
from Athens to-d.iy sa.vliu,' that the flreek
rrnivn prosecutor upon government ot
hers has commenced pi oceedinas nt-'alnst
r-Premler Venielos. It the OteeW
Ftatesman does not appear for exatnlna-
Iti'itt the despatch say.- he will he arrested
IMOTHER AND DAUGHTER
BRUTALLY MURDERED
New York, Jan, 20. Mrs. lielieeca
ll'iillnian, ,i0 .ears old, said to be the
fe of a Chicago business tnan, and
I her dmclitei Mis. Cerlrude I'.azell,
f f n-s old, i e found dead In ftniilsli
rd rooms lieio to-ulKlit. After an In
vesication Cm-oner Mealy said their
IfkuIIs had been fractured. A blood-
Iftalned axe, such as Is used by lathers,
l.ih found beneath a bed In tho room.
Two hours after the bodies worn
I found the polli e sent out a Kencial
Rlarm for the arrest of Nathan Villi
ma i, husband of the older woman, on
e i harce of homicide.
CARLOAD OF POWDER
EXPLODES; 0 INJURED
Minrk In Felt for .Miles About City of
llliicllclil. W. Vn.
niueneld. W Va , Jan. y,. More than
'i persons were injuicd, the seriously,
line to. nlclit when a car loaded with
Itilnck powiW blow up In the loeul yaids
I of the Norfolk and A'cHerti ralltoad,
ll-' re followed and hefon- the llames
I could be controlled, several cais load
Ird with tnerchandlpo had been deatroyed.
hrco cars contnlnlnu dynamite were on
Ir. itenruy biuiiiK ai ton nine, nui uremcn
nicoeeded in romovlnx them to a placo
nf Bafety. Tim cause has not been de
termined, The ex-plnr.!on occurred about
fine mile and a nan irom ine inisinesa
ectlou. Tho shock wflh felt for tnil.is
r id liundreilB of windows wero broken.
Many perrons nt tlr.t bellevcii that an
inithfUsl.o bin! orruneil,
Emergency Surgery.
1 aspnons, a pocket i.iihc nun a. pn-co or
j'ibber tubing as bin instruments Dr.
II W. Panlel of the Klklns hospPal per.
formed an operation on a iwiimn up-iim-ciiUv
dying of dlph'hc.r-lrt. and .'nved
l, llfi. t was IcArne'l ro.imv. i iiijeii n
tie. rnonntalii home cr .urs, r iiumiau
i i berly the doctor found the woman un
consclnufl. Having no Hiiiglial Instruments
v'.'h him iiml rca!I;.lrs that death was
I rrr In: in'idn an 'ncliioii In the woman's
i nilpir- w'Ph h's knife ;md uslu thn
l ,iM,r,on bn'il dAi.hlo jif letrartnin, In
I, rfd th' iid'lcr tabj Inspiration wan
rotoicd and within a few hours tl.o
jiarlent resalned 'iiiscnunc-a and It Is
fraid to-day thai lien ren-cry la t.t-
ID
FIVE CAMPS
AT PLATTSBURG
Summer Training of Citizen
Soldiers This Year on Larg
er Scale Than Bc
f ore.
Now Vork, Jan. 20.- Plans for the mili
tary training anips nt Phrttsbi'iRh,
N y., und 1'oit Oglethorpe, da, next
summer, were annoniiied to-il.u;. hy the
d( pur Uncut or the Fast. According
those In e-harge, arrangements have, al
ready heen made to accommodate n
mlnlinilin iittondancf of H',o. Miijot
(len. Leonard Wood, S A., It was
said, coiilldently expects the number will
he twice that.
Present plans call for five camps at
Flnttsblirgh and four at port Oglethorpe.
The Plattshurgh camps will he divided
as follows: First camp, senior division,
June fi-July .'. sciond cnnip, Junior di
vision. July ."-August S: third camp,
senior division, July IS-August S; fourth
camp, senior division, August I0-Soptcui-hcr
I!: Ilflli camp, senior division. Sep
tember S-Oetnher IS.
The senior divisions comprise Gradu
ates of colleges and universities and
other citizens between the ngeie ot 'S
anil I." who have iccclvcd an eiiuivalent
education.
Tlio Junior divisions compilse under
graduates In collogcs, universities and
those students In public and private
schools who have reached a smile
equivalent to senior class, high schools.
BUDGET COMMISSION.
Will Make !nrcy of Income mill llls
horscmcnl und Itcpnrt In Next
l.cglslndii c.
Montpeller. Jan. LS. In accoi dance with
provisions of No. I'! of the acts of I'd.,
the budget commission cieated by the l ist
Legislature met this afternoon at the
State House. The commission is made
up of the governor, the auditor, State
treasurer, chairman of the finance com
mittee of the Senate (Senator Cady of
Northtield), chairman of the llou.-e com
mittee of ways and means, (Stanley ('
Wilson of Chelsea), chaliman of the
House apt oprlatlou committee (Hedtleld
Proctor of Proctor), and Slate Purchas
ing Agent Dewey T. Ilanley. All the
members weie present at the opening
session to-day, with the exception of Mr
Proctor.
The commission Is authorized to make a
financial survey of income and disburse
ment and report to the Legislature with
recomiiicnil.it ions.
WILL STAND BY
ENGLAND IN WAR
Great Conference Adopts Two
Resolutions Expressing Its
Unswerving Patriot
ism.
Hri'-tol. Jan. IS. British orcinlzed labor
on the llrst day of a lOnfetcnin whicli
has attracted world-wldn attention out
voted tin- extreme socialist anti-war .sec
tion and adopted two resolutions ex
pressing the p.Uilotlc icsolw to cany
the war tlnouuh.
James i'iiiiiiiiy MaiDonald, socialist
and labor member of Parliament for
Leicester, and Philip Snowdeti, socialist
member for Blackburn, tiled to persuade
the lelcKales to vole against the mo
tions, but, when iciiuestcd to detlne their
position clearly made evasions and were
unable to convince t lie confluence.
One leproscntiiilve of the socialist kc--lloti,
w lien asked to state tin- terms on
which the soclnllsls would have paitl-
ci pitted In a voluntary icLiuitl'.K cam
laiKii, declared:
"On no terms." Ite immediately lost
his hold on tho delej,'ati h.
Tho lotifcience was a most representa
tive one. A In I Be section of labor and
commerce attended whlln seated on the
platform wero two I'rench socialist de
puties ii nd Itnbert ApplcRarth, one of
tho three founders of trades unionism in
(treat Britain. .Many of tho addresses
were patriotic In lone, and Jnmes Ham
soy MncDnnald was criticised In un
measured terms hy Ills fellow Scotsmen
for spooking about the resolutions
without making his own party's position
clear.
fieorse Jnmes Wardle, member of
Parliament for Stockport and editor of
the Inllway Tvovinw, demanded an ex
pression for or ,rnlnst earr.vlnc on the
war, and It was after that that the con
vention responded by adopting the vital
resolutions by larrjo majorities, favoritiK
labor's co-operation with the authorities
to brim; about a victorious endlnK to
tho war.
U. S. STEEL DISTRIBUTES
$ir!W8!).12 IN PENSIONS.
nttKhtii-g, Jan. :n. -A total of JC.AD.I2
was distributed In pensions to retired em
ployes of the I'nlted States Steel corpora
tion during irilf'. nccoidlm; to the 11 ft 1 1 an
nual repoit of thn I'nlted States Steel
und Carnegie pension fund, made public
tn-nlght. This Is nn Increnso of I147.-C.2
over 1011. The report shows that slnco
January I, 1111, when tho fund was estab
lished $.',2M,C10.75 has been disbursed In
pensions
Montenegro Lost.
i.oniinn, .inn. jr, :::u a. tn. The news
from the Montenegrin war theatre Is
still contradictory as regards details, but
II . ipilto clear that Motitnnegro Is now
completely at tho mercy of tho Austrians
und that n majority of the .YJintcnoxrlns
nrn giving up their arm.
Include the classified "ads" ninong the
tliinns in the paptr ivhli li you always
reaiJ, und you'll lmvu your full aharo of
"b'uod, luck."
ORGANIZED LABOR
GT. BRITAIN NOT
UEU TO RESORT
TO REAL BLOCKADE
Sir Edward Grey Declares in
House of Commons "Wc Can
not Do More Than Wc Arc Al
ready Doing."
WHAT NEUTRALS If EXPECT
England Cannot Abandon Her
Rights of Interference with
Enemy Trade Without Con
siderable Inconvenience to
Non-Belligerents' Trade.
London, Jan. K. The openiiip phrases
or the speeches of Sir IMward (iicy, for
eign secretary, In tho IIoiipc of Commons
and of the Marquis of l.ansdovvne. minis
ter without portfolio, in the Monte of
Lords, to-day Rave the Impression thai tho
British novel titiient Is not llkelv to lcsort
to an absolute blockade of lierinany.
l-'orelKti Secretary (Jiey opened his
speech by saying It was a dllllcult and
complicated subject which the House had
j under consideration. He had gathered
i fi nin the debate that tlici c was a real tnls
nppiehciisjoit conceinitiK tlie amount of
trade passim; into Ocrmany and i esardlnp:
j what ills Kovernnicnt was doliiK to stop
I that trade.
! Sir I-Mw.ird said that as a matter of
j fact the Rovcrninent a ilolnj; what
I the supporters of the blockade policy de
manded,
"We cannot do more than we are al
ready doini;," he said.
"We are applying the doctrine or
continuous voyiiRc," Sir IMwarci said.
"We quite niireo that We want com
mon action witli our allies and that Is
what we had with France when the
order In council was issued.
"We are Kolnpr to answer the last
t'nlted States note but In the first in
stance In consultation with tho Trench
government. That consultation Is now
taklnr; place and consultations w:th
other allies who are concerned In the
cnrrylnir out of our policy may follow.
"With repaid to neutrals the rtov
eriimcnt is perfectly ready to exam
ine any other method of carrylnr; out
our declared policy of stopplris enemy
trade than the one now adopted, which
mlKht he more convenient aim more
agreeable In practice, so Ioiir as it
was effective"
"I would say to neutrils that we can
not abandon our rights of Interference
with enemy trade and cannot exercise
that light without onslderable Incon
venience to their trade They must an
swer the one main question:
"Do they admit our rlsht to apply to
the full the principles applied by the
American government in the Civil War
according to the order of conditions and
tn do our lust to prevent trade reaching
the enemy through neutrals?
"If they answer 'Yes' as they are
hound in fairness tn do then 1 would say
let theiu do rhelr best to inako It easy
for us to distinguish.
"If thev answer that we aie not entitled
to iireveiit trade with the enemy, and It
the neutral countries take that line, It
would he a departure from neutrality. I
do not understand that they will take
that line. It Is quite, true there wero
thlncs In the last American note which
if conceded would have icndered It Im
possible for (ireat Britain to prevent
goods, even contraband, going wholesale
to the enemy, iut I don't understand that
that is the attitude of the 1'nlteil States
or anv other government "
Sr IMward (!rey In wathlng terms con
tiastid lieimnny's attitude to neutrals
with the British attitude, and said:
ir ever tlieie was a war in which we
and our nllle could employ recognized
belligerent rights to their utmost extent
It was this war. What would have been
Faid hv neutrals If we had done what
(iermany 1ms done?"
lho foreign secretary emphasized again
what was the aim of the allies and con
eluded hy declaring:
"We shall sec this thing through to the
end."
London, Jan. 2(1. The result of the
anxiously awaited dehate In the House
of Commons on the blockade question
Is that the British government ndliere
to Its existing policy.
A resolution introduced by Arthur
Shirley Benn, I'nlonlst member of Ply
mouth, that the entire over-ocennre
traffic with (iermany should he pro
vented b.v ,ii blockade, was talked out
rind the subject dropped, thus leaving
the position exactly as before tho do
bate, except that Parliament seemed
more converted to the government
poll y.
Interesting farts published hy the
war department partly demolished the
elaborate structure raised by the news
papers und Sir IMward flrey's effective
speech appeared to finish thn worlt
thus began.
After the foreign secretary had spoken
Commander Bellalts said he had anti
cipated Hint nine-tenths of the llouso
would bo against Sir Kdwnrd drey, but
since his speech ho had to admit nine
tenths worn with him. Ill fact after the
foreign secretary sat down the House
Kiadtially emptied nnd at one tlmo din
ing the debate only a half n dozen mem
'hers weie present.
At the opening of the debate the
House was crowded, all thn business
section being very conspicuous nnd the
galleries also were filled, notable vlsi
tors being the American ambassador, the
Bw-eillsh and DanlHh ministers, 1inl
Fisher nnd lnrd Slninforilhain, private
secretary to the King.
PASSHS TIIIBI) ItKAIHNC.
London, .Inn. -(!. The military serv
ice bill pnssod Its third renUInu In tho
lluUbo of Lords to-night.
STARVING IN
CONSTANTINOPLE
Dcartli of Necessaries of Life
Reported by London Daily
Mail's Correspond
ent. London, Jan. 27.-l'nder tho headlnc,
"In Starving Constantinople," the Daily's.
Mnll's correspondent, who has Just re
turned fiom a trip llironsh the Halkans
on the new li.ilkan cxpicss, describes
the conditions In the Turkish capital.
"In Constantinople," says the corre
spondent, "one realizes tho war pressure
more than In any ureal capital In the
war zone. I had been there a few months
a ko, but to-day things arc much worse.
The dearth of necessaries of life Is now
of an alarinlnc nature. The condition of
affairs approaches famine. The price of
siiRiii- Is five shillings a pound and coffcu
Is six shlllliiKS a. pound "
FARM BUREAU MEETING.
I'ranklln County (Irgiinl.nllon Klrrts
II. S, HrlKlinni President.
St. Albans, Jan. ai. -The annual meet
ing of the I'mnklln county farm bureau
was held at the tity hall to-day, about
12." members being present. Hvory town
In tho county except Fletcher was rep
resented. The following offlvers were elected'
President. C. S. Brlgham of St. Albans;
vice-president, II. I-'. Coinings ot Fast
Berkshire; secretary, K. A. Curtis of
St. Albans town, treasurer, L. L. Marsh
of FnosbuMg Falls. President Brlgham
appointed an executive committee con
slstlng of A. T. Curtis nf (icorgla. Mr.
Btlgham and II. K. Brooks of St. Albans
town, N. W. Church of Fletcher and
(lenrge L. Nichols of Lnosbttrg. also an
advisory council of 3 members from the
various towns of the county.
The treasurer's report showed total
subscriptions ftom the various towns
Sl.'JW.ra: from towns by taxes, 5I.W7.I7
total expenditure. $l,rT;.:?: cash on
hand, tlvi.'.'.' ; due from towns and on
subscript Ions, JM.R
Tills afternoon Thomas Bradlee of
Burlington, State leader and director of
xtenslon service, gave an address on
'A County Organization." The sub
Ject, "What Shall We Kxpeet of r
inn But can and a County Agent?'
was given iiy w. D. nurd, director ot
the Massachusetts extension servl
md the session closed with an address
on " I no i nrni or tne rcuiurc ny uean
,1. L. Hills of Burlington.
HATCH DECLARES
FATAL SHOT WAS
FIRED B! MISTAKE
Johnsbury Man Testifies He
St.
Thought Gun That
His Victim Was
Loaded.
Killed
Not
St. .lohnsbiiiy, Jan. ;fi. Harlow Hatch,
iccused of shooting and killing Sumner
Brown last summer, the eliargc against
him being manslaughter, took the statin
to-dav in Ills own defense at the trial
f his rase Hi Caledonia county court.
He detailed his movements on Sunday,
July IS, the dny Brown was killed, and
gave his version nf tho shooting. Accord
ing to Ills story, ho and Brown wero
together all day. They had no trouble
and. aside from taking r. glass of cider,
they hail not been drinking. During the
ifternoon they took nn automobile trip
through Danville and leturncel in Hntch's
pool room In the- evening.
While In the pool room, HatOi went
o the money drawer to till his foun
alu pen. lie picked a revolver out of the
Irawer, which he had kept there for
some time, but bad never loaded. Blown,
his employe, had cleaned lhe weapon
two or three days before and unknown
to Hatch had loaded It. Commenting on
the revolver, Brown said that it worked
"llko a lily" since he cleaned It and told
Hatch he ought to try it. Hatch acted
on the suggestion at once, presuming that
tho revolver was still empty, and fit ed
the shot which killed his employe.
hi describing bis flight, he said that
he started llrst for a telephone Intending
to call a eloctor and then, thinking that
the man was dead, he became alarmed
and thought that his story of an nr.
chimin i shooting would not be believed
Ho decided to go to Ills father's house
hut changed his mind lor fear thip. his
father would heroine inled up in the
affair. Ills only thought then wis to
escape and he made his way by night to
Kast liarnnt, where for rwo elavs he con
eealed himself In a barn near the home
of an uncle. During that time he had
nothing to eat and dr.ml: water from
the trough. On Tuesday night after the
shooting he met his mother while thn
latter was nfter the rows and sent word
by him to the authorities.
The respondent made n very favorable
impression and the prosecution was im
able tn slink his story.
Drs. W. II. Fitch and W fi Bicker
were put on the stand by the defense. Dr.
Fitch contradicted the testimony c,f nr,
C I". Whitney in regard to womaN found
on Brown's face und bead, which Whit,
trey claimed were not caused bv falling,
Dr. Fitch claimed that he brushed dirt
from lho wounds and thnt In his opinion
it was not only possible but very proba
bio Hint- nil of the marks wero received
by Brown when he plunged headlong on
the I'oucrete sidewalk after being shot.
leaving failed to show that theio was u
iiunrro before the shooting it s mv
thought thai the htate win try to piovo
criminal negligence on Hatch's pan. Tlio
defense l conlldeiit of proving that
Brown's death was caused hy m.,,.
dental shooting and nro looking fo,. ,
iiulttal on there gi minds The defensn
still has four or five witnesses tn bo ex-
ainlnted nun u i- i"1"""' "" mo cuso
will bo given tu tlio Juiy I'nuuy.
HAPPENINGS IN
THE STATE OF
VERMONT
Local Items of Interest from
AH Parts of the Green Moun
tain State Condensed So That
He Who Runs May Read.
THE NEWS BY COUNTIES
From the Island in the Lake to
the Passumnsic, Along Otter
Creek and Shores of White
River. Covered by Our Special
Correspondents.
ADDISON COUNTY
MIDDLEEURY.
The board of managers of the Addison
County Fair association held a well at
tended meeting Wednesday Jan. in. The
meeting was called by the president, John
K. Weeks, and the following superintend
ents weie elected: ficnetal superintend
ent, Charles M. Itetnele of Mlddlehitry:
superintendent of races, William Noonan
of Vergenne. hoipes, Noble J. Sanford
of Mlddlebtirv; cattle and swine, Willis
N. Cady of Mlddlebury; sheep. Kdson C.
Farnhain of Shoreham: poultry, n. S.
ailndgett of Bristol; dog", C.ardner J.
Duncan of Ilddlebitry : exhibition hall,
Arthur J. Blackmer: horticultural hall,
Frank D. Manchester of Cornwall; me
eh inics hall, William II. Jnckscn of Mid
dlehuiy; chief marshal, John D. "Wood of
Mlddlebury; tlsh and same, George It.
Charfec of Mlddlebury- The superintend
ents have the power to appoint their own
assistants. The following form the stand
ing committees; Kxecutlve, Mr. James,
Mr. V.irney, Mr. Had;, Mr. Foete and Mr.
Morton; on construction and repairs, Col.
Usley and Judge Weeks; In charge of
ground!. Judge Weeks; music, Mr Avery.
Mr. Dyer, Mr. Scars; amusements, Co'
llsley, Mr. Weeks, Mr. Dyer; horses, Mr.
I-'oote: cattle, Mr. Mncaulev: i-heep, -Mr.
Williams; horticultural hall, Mr. Ham
mond: delegate to National Trotting as
sociation congress, C. A, Chapman, It
was voted to join in with the college and
the I'. S. novernment with the stock show
which will be held some time in March.
The date will be announced later. The
annual meeting of tire village ot Middle
bury was held In the town hall Wednes
day and was called to order by Moderator
Judge Charles 1. Button. Col. Thad M.
Chapman was unanimously elected mod-
Prntor aml j0Peph m. Burke cierk. The
reports of tho trustees were adopted, it
was voted to authorize the trustees to
appoint three or moro lire wardens, as
seemed best, each year and tn chance the
by-laws to that effect. A tax of 'jn cents
was voted for roads and sidewalks and a
further tax of in cents for other expenses
of the village. Dr. P. L. Dorey moved
that the old boaid of trustees be re-elected
In a bunch but the motion was lost
and they went in separately as follows;
W. X. Cady, P. N. Sweet, A. N Brown,
John A. Fletcher. Dr. P. I-.. Mellen. I J.
lllnks and Isaac Lavonche, Jr. Henry
F. Joy and Clarence C. Wellt were re
elected auditors, Charles H. C.nnev treas
urer and Ceorge F. Kidder chief engineer
of the lire department. It was voted to
extend the sidewalk from the passenger
depot down through the underpass tn Sey
mour street. Col. S. A. llsley then moved
that the trustees engage a innri who would
see that tho walks In the Addison llouso
park wero kept free from lee and offered
to pay for- the work. (In Wedne-dny
Ian l!i. of the l-'oote street neighbors
gathered nt the home of Bralnard 11
Lane to congratulate Mr. and Mrs. Her
bert Peacock III honor of their man lage
After an enioyablc evening fpent 111
gnnies, in which nil took pan. ueiresu
merits were served. Among the guests
from out of town was Miss Flora Benton
of l-Vrrlsburg.
There lire II vo generations In one family
now living In Mlddlebury: Mrs. Lucv A.
Kendall, aged Is'i vcars. her son, llonicr
Kendall, his daughter. Mrs. Charles
Brush, her daughter, Mis. Jesse Brush.
and her son, Howard Brush, aged two
and a half years. M:s. Kendall Is tho
widow of a soldier who served in the
Hth Vermont regiment In the Civil War
- Thn nowly elected board of village
trustees met nt lhe town clerk's office
Friday evening and organized. John A
Fletcher was chosen president of tho
board. The following annolntnierits were
made: Chief nf police. (leorge II. Chaffee;
policemen, (ieoige Moore, Kdwnrd (iondrn,
(leorgo Wright and Amos Wilson, Mr
Monro being appointed night watchman
sheet commissioner, James Mcdllnihey
lire wnrdens. (leorge Milder, l.eoigo
Slur mho nnd Nelson Seymour; village at
torney. Allen B. Stuitevant; super
intendent of parks, A W. Brown; sewers
J. A. Fletcher; lire department nnd walks,
Professor Swett: toads, Willis N. Cady
sheet lights, Isaac "Lavonche, Jr. Hubert
T Moore has gono to Rutlnnd for u few
lavs' visit to his family. J- !' i'nyt of
the college has returned from Whiting,
where he preached at the Congregational
Church Sunday - Miss Marjorle Baldwin
has gone to Vergennes for a few days
Mrs Jlenrv Walker Is 111 with the grip
Mrs. It. L. Itrough is III at her rooms
In the Baltell block. -Clyde B.ilrr has re
turned to Washington, D. C. after a
several weeks' visit to his parents, Mr.
nnd Mrs. Homer Bain. Mrs. c.enrgn
Meade of New Vork is visiting her aunt.
Miss Coodrlch. l'rank J. Biennnrr of St.
Albans Is visiting Ills brother. T. P
Btcnnan -Mr nnd Mr.i. Clavtou Cook,
who have been visiting lit the home of
her paients, Mr. and Mis Mlihael (Iradv,
havo leluined to Itilthind Joseph Butler,
caller" here b.v lhe death oT his t;rnnd
motlier, Mrs. Julia Cinioll. lias lehnnrd
In Providence, B. I. Mis. K. 11
F.inilmin of Sudbury Is in town, called
hero by lho dunucroua lllucbn of her
father, Horton W. .lonei. Mrs. Charles
Dodgn of Proctor has been called hero
by thn serious Illness ot her daughter,
Miss Mlniilo I-:. Dodge, n student at tho
college. Carl Davis, who has been III
for a week, has gone to his home In
Oheslcr to recuperate). Mr. and Mrs.
.Inbez K. Markhani and daughter, Viola,
and son, Francis, of Stanford, Conn., nr
rlved Snturday for n couple of weeks'
visit with friends. William Martin
Wright and Miss Vova Anna har
row, both of this village, were mar
lled Saturday at the Methodist Church
parsnriago by the Bov. D. II. Cntkran.
After a short honeymoon they will make
their home here. Mrs. Lucy Crarv Is II!
Mrs. Anna Warrior, who ha been 111 for
some time nt tho home of her sister, Mrs
1.. J. Oorhnrn, on Weyhrldee street, died
early Sunday morning- nt the age of r.i
vcars with a complication ot diseases.
She li survived by one daughter. Miss
Wnneta Warner or St. Albans, u son, Ittiti
sell Warner of Boston; two sisters, Mrs.
Crorhnm of this village, with whom s-hn
lived, nnd Mrs. Motley of Madison, Wis.
The funeral was held at her hit honic
Tuesday afternoon ut 2:'l o'clock. The io
mains of Henry Oilman were brought Iito
Irom the Soldiers' Home, Hennlng'on,
where ho has been for a few yen is, and
taken to the undertaking rooms of A. J.
Hlnekmer. Tuesday morning they were
tnken to Fast Mlddlebury, where tho fu
neral services were held nt St. Barnabas
chapel at ten o'clock. The licv. John
llvans Hold conducted ilie services and
burial was in the family plot In the
Prospect cemetery of that village. Mr.
(illmnn was a Civil War veteran and was
a longtime resident of that towrr. He Is
survived hy one son. The (Mils' Friendly
society of St. Stephen's Fplscopal Church
met Wednesday evening at the home
of Mrs. n. i:. Chllson on South Main
street. Ms Clara Urtiya is In Vergennes
to visit her sister, Mrs Frank Barrows.
Miss Loul-e Dvvlio has gone on a trip to
the southern part of tne State-. Finland
Harper has returned from Shoreham.
whero he han been tn visit at
the home of his parents.
c. If. Perkins of Ihrtland and J. n.
Dyer of Salisbury hnve returned fo
their homes after visiting friends in
town. The ice cutting on fitter creeit,
which was begun the tlist of last vveerc
and continued in full 1,1, rst until the
end of the week, had to be suspended
iriled.ittcly Monday because the thaws
of the r;.st few days ha.- Hooded the
Ice with water several Inches deop.
Frank Londervlllo has n turnen to
ICenseville, N. V after spending- a
week in town. Wl'llam (inrharr.
of Now Vork city arrived Monday
from New Vork city, called here by
tho death of his aunt. Mrs Anna War
ner. Monday, market da, eggs
brought from if to r.n cents nnd but
ter L'fi to ,11 cents. J. II Dot
nson
of Uranilon is to officiate
organwt
(Cerntlnueil on prigc two)
PLANT EMPLOYING
Gen. Crozier Tells What U. S
Requires to Make Muni
tions to Keep Million
Men in Field.
Washington, Jan. 26. Lstlmates
were
given the Senate military committee to
day by Brlgadlcr-Gcner.il Ciozlcr. chief
of ordnance, showing that a plant costing
f 100.0 riAf) opeiated by a force of ".'"iKO
workmen would bo required to rnanufac -
ture ammunition und war materials rieci-s-
ary to keep an iirruy of a million men
In tho Held and oriulp an additional mil-
Hun recruits. General Crozier strongly i
disapproved any proposal for government
monopoly of the manufacture of war,
supplier). i
Tile committee received to-day from i
See retary Harrison u draft of a tentative
measure suggested by Chairman Chnnw
herlnlnl which would provide for the au
thorization of tin proposed continental j
army ill gem-ral terms only, leaving the.
detail of lho pruposcel system to he work
ed out b.v war department regulations.
Senator i 'haniberlalii has prepared a
tentative bill dealing only with in
itciiscs Im- the regular army, and It Is
assumed the general authority contem
plated in the brief section submitted to
day by the secretary is intended to he
Inserted Into the Chamberlain bill. It
provides that men of the continental
army shall iccelve not more than thrcu
mouths' training in any year while serv
ing with thn colors, or more than six
months' training In all during their
three years of active duty.
Only powder has been delivered to the
Huropcan belligerents 111 any consider
able quantities by American plants,
(lencial ( rozlcr explained, although or
ders for many kinds of weapons arid
ammunition wen placed morn than" a
year ago.
Pointing out that virtually all tin pub
lic and large private munition plants of
the Fulled States aie situated close to
the Atlantic seaboard and within strik
ing distance of an e nemy In case of in.
viitdnn, the general Hived that wiine
provision be inado by emigres to fos
ter development of private plants In tlio
Intel lor,
Brig.-Gcneial Weaver, chief of coast
artillery, said that while the coast de
fenses of lhe I'nlted States arc the best
In the woild, they an inndciiuntcly
mnuueil and sotni provision Is necessary
also for protection of the e-oast line
between permanent forts by means of
mobile artillery of Inavy calibre. The
coinlitlnn ot tho country as to drugs
which would bn necessary In grout quan
tity In war tlmo was brought out by the
surgeon-generals of the army and navy.
Both agreed that supplies of quinine nnd
opium might be completely shut off If
thn 1'nlteil Stales l-ceame Involved 111
wur und that great stores of these
drugs should ho aci umiilatrd In times
of peace'.
Arthur S Maliln, one ot lhe most
prominent of the' younger business men
of Baric, died Tuesday after a week's
Illness with grip, which developed Into
pneumonia.
need minim
750.000 WORKMEN
PRESIDENT OPENS
HIS PREPAREDNESS
TI
Will Address the Railroad Busi
ness Association at New York
This Evenins To Touch
Mexican Situation.
MEETS PACIFICISTS IT NOON
Attendance with Still Another
Speech at a Banquet of the
Moving Picture Board of
Trade Is Also a Part of
the
Day's Schedule.
Washington, Jan. M. President Wilson
left to-tright for New York whero to
morrow night ho will deliver tho llrst
of a series of addresses laying before
tlio country the issue of preparedness
for natlonnl defense. Before starting
he held final conferences with adminis
tration leaders In Congress and cabinet
members regarding the speeding up of
the legislative program at the Capitol.
Tho .President will arrive in New
Vork at six o'clock to-morrow morning,
but will remain on his private car until
eight o'clock, when a committee from
the Bnllrnad Business association will
escort him to his hotel. At noon he
will receive a delegation from the New
Vork Federation if Churches, who desire
to present to him an address In appre
ciation of his effort In behalf of peace
Mr. Wilson probably will respond
briefly.
Th" opening gun for preparedness will
be llred b.v the President at the annual
ba nn uct of the Bnllroad Business associa
tion. He has carefully prepared his ad
dress, but may depart from his printed
text in order to Include some additional
word on Industrial preparednes". Later
In tlio evening Mr. Wilson will speak
before a banquet of the Motion rlcture
Board of Trade of America. He is ex
pected to mention the Mexican and lOu
lopean situation In hoth addresses.
Leaving at midnight to-morrow, tho
President will arrive here early Frlelav
morning. Mrs. Wilson, Secretary Tumulty
and Dr. Cary T. Grayson will accompany
him.
The President will make further effort
Friday to get the views of leaders of the
Senate and House on the proposed ship
purchase hill, thp tariff commission, the
Philippine bill, and other measures lis
wishes passed as soon as possible. At the
cabinet meeting tho results of his many
Interviews with senators and representa
tives will be dlscocd. He Is understood
to l.c verv hopeful that his V'gislative
program will be passed hy Congress in
time for an adjournment In June
Tho Pre.-ldent has thoroughly mapped
out the addresses he will deliver during
his middle western trip, on which ho will
leave Friday night. Kach of his speeches
tho first nf which will be delivered Satur-
I day morning In Pittsburg, will ho differ-
t cut.
The only changes In the plan for the trl;
I to-day was tho addition of a ptihllr meet
I Ing In St. Louis and the arrangement for
1 ''platform speeches" In several towns in
Wisconsin, Illinois, Knnsas and Iowa
i In St. Louis he was to have spoken at ,i
breakfast. Ho will attend the breakfast
but will go to another hall to speak,
RUTLAND RAILROAD
DEFENDANT IN 3 SUITS
Ml
I'gllvenci Ciinch Point Dnmiigea
( liitineit In fSIMinO.
Rutland. Jan. ;n Three negligence suits,
In all of which the Rutland railroad li
mimed as defendant and in which dani-
aj-'os of j.o.i'm ate sought, wero tiled In
Unhand e-ounty court to-day.
The lilggest ease is that of Mrs. Kvelyn
N". I.nmountnlti, administratrix of ilnorgo
l.nriiountaln. in which the plaintiff seeks
to recover ?1W. It is alleged that Mr.
1-imountnln was killed b.v thn switch en
gine of the Bntland road while shovellim
snow on to the Temple crossing
The second e-ase Is brought by Io-rls
Johnson, as administrator of the estatu
of Illlilur P. Johnson, in which the plain
tiff .ceks to recover ?.,i"1,i. The dereaed
was a child and was killed while ei los
ing the trncks nt the Temple crossing on
September CO. In both thee allecntlnni
it Is s-et up that the companv allow car)
to be left on the sidings- at this point, ob
structing the tracks hoth wavs. that it
maintains no gateinnn. llasmnn or watch,
men for warning the people in spite of
the fne-t that the crossing Is within Uia
cltv and Is used everv hour of the elnv
The third suit is thnt of Charles H
Pp.ifford of North clarendon, adinlnutr.t
tor of tho estate of llenrv W Wilcox
acnlust the iailio.nl. It Is claimed Mr.
Wilcox was killed by a t rn in January U,
101,1, at the South Main street crossing.
INTEREST IN FARM"
MORTGAGE STIMULATED
An HfTci't of I lumpi'iin U'nr llernnnd
(renter Thnn MipnD.
Chicago, Jan. "'. Interest in farm mort
gages lias been stimulated by the Furn
penu war according to members of tho
Farm Mortgage Haiikets' Association of
America, who also assert that the demand
for such Investments Is greater than the
supply Members of the association wero
In Chicago In attend a meeting of tho
board of governors to plan legislation af
fecting the association.
"During the year 1015 about seven bil
lion dollars was Invested in farm mort
gages much of It being foiclgri capital,"
II I Hanson, soe-t clary of the board of
hade. mid. "Foreign cnpltnl now ha
nioie than JiW.noi.ni'k) Invested In farm
mortgages in tho I'nitcd Stale, runnlne;
from live years up. Irrsteid of demand
Ing payments they aro renewing thoso
that nio lapsing,"
CAMPAIGN
9NIGHT
