VOL. XXI, NO. 32.
INCOME TAX LAW
CONSTITUTIONAL
THE UNITED STATES SUPREME
COURT DECISION DECLARES
MEASURE SOUND
ENDS FIGHT LASTING
NEARLY FIFTY YEARS
Amendment to Constitution In 1913—
Congress Passed Law Same
Year
Washington, D. C., Jan. 24.—The
supreme court today upheld the con
stitutionality of the income tax law.
Five separate suits to test the con
stitutionality of the new income tax
were brought in the federal courts
throughout the country soon after the
law became effective and all found
their way to the supreme court of the
United States soon after.
For nearly fifty years the fight for
and against a federal income tax has
been somewhere in the courts.
The income tax imposed during the
Civil war and the years immediately
following were not attacked with the
seriousness of later cases. It was not
until the Cleveland administration
placed an income tax in the Wilson
tariff act that the fight became seri
ous.
Favored by Choate
The contest over the validity of the
tax in 1894 and 1895 before the su
preme court was one of the most bit'
ter ever fought out before that court,
One of the lawyers, James C. Carter,
warned the court against setting up
its judgment to thwart the will of six
ty million people. Joseph H. Choate,
opposing, called upon the court to ex
ercise its judicial power regardless of
any popular or populistic propaganda.
At first the court decided that the
tax was unconstitutional as to rents
from land because it was a direct tax
not apportioned according: to popula
tion, and as was unconstitutional as to
interest on municipal bonds. Only
eight judges participated and they
were evenly divided as to the validity
of other features of the law. A re
hearing was granted and Justice Jack
son, then dying, took his place on the
bench to listen to the last arguments
in his lifetime. Justice Jackson voted
to sustain the law. Justice Harlan
created a sensation by announcing
from the bench that another justice
had changed his mind over night on
the question, and the entire tax, both
as to reality and as to income from
personality was set aside on the
ground that it was a direct tax and
not apportioned according to popula
tion, as was required by the constitu
tion of direct taxes.
Congress Acted Promptly
An asritation for an amendment to
the constitution then began. It came
to nothing until President Taft rec
ommended the enactment of an excise
tax on corporations to be measured
by their income and an amendment to
the constitution to permit the levying
of an income tax on all income. The
amendment was submitted to the
states at once and was proclaimed as
the sixteenth amendment to the con
stitution on March 1, 1913.
It orovided:
"The congress shall have power to
lav and collect taxes On incomes from
whatever source derived with out ap
portionment among the several states
and without regard to any census or
enumeration."
Congress availed itself of the first
opportunity to exercise the new pow
er by incorporating into the tariff act
which become effective October 3,
1913, the present income tax. Five
suits, all challenging the validity of
certain features of the tax were
brought.
Frank R. Brushaber, stockholder of
(Continued on page 7)
University Man
Will Give Talks
The managers of the Farmers' Ag
ricultural Convention, to be held in
Williston February 8, 9. 10, and
11,
formerly referred to as the Third
Annual Short Course, are glad to be
|1able to announce that they have ser
cured James E. Boyle, a member of
the state university faculty, to ad
dress the convention on the Farm
jjers' Elevators and Grain Marketing.
|Mr. Boyle is professor of economics
and widely recognized as an able au
thority. He will speak the third day
the convention.
WHITE WAY BIDS
ARE CONSIDERED
SEVEN CONCERNS COMPETE FOR
CITY CONTRACT WIDE
RANGE OF FIGURES
CONTRACT TO BE
LET FEBRUARY 1
Local Bidder Lowest—All Bids Above
Estimates—Materials High,
Going Higher
The City Commission opened bids
for the construction of a Williston's
White Way system at the city offices
Tuesday evening. A large number of
representatives of electrical and other
interested concerns were on hand.
Seven companies had offered bids on
the job and the figures showed a
range of over $5,000. The commis
sioners had filed specifications and
most of the bidders specified materials
in accordance with these requirements
but some made outside specifications.
The style of post and globe was
naturally the important item in the
specifications and for this the city
engineers and officials had settled on a
one light, cast iron post that is made
by the King Foundry Company, St.
Joseph, Mo. Samples and photo
graphs show both post and globe to
be of handsome design, the two stand
ing 13 feet in height.
All bids were found to be several
thousand dollars higher than the orig
inal estimates of the cost of the sys
tem. The reason for this is found in
the rapidly advancing price of nearly
all of the materials that enter into the
job. Copper which represents over
half the cost is rocketing skyward on
account of the European demand. Iron,
tin and other metals used are also on
the steady advance. There is no
prospect of a decline in the prices of
these materials for so long a time that
waiting is out of the question. The
officifls feel thftUthe wise course lies
in letting the contract at once while
the bids still hold good. It is said
that many other cities find the same
conditions confronting them and all
are endeavoring to close contracts at
once.
The Figures
Aiken Construction Co., Fargo—
$28,501.00.
E. B. Link, Williston—$25,372.00.
Western Electric Co., Minneapolis
—$29,587.00.
Olson A Bottger Electric Mfg. Co.,
St. Paul—$26,800.00.
Grand Forks Concrete Co., Grand
Forks—$30,483.00.
Sterling Electric Co., Minneapolis
$25,655.19.
Electric Construction Co., St. Paul
—$27,098.00.
As may be see nE. B. Link of Wil- -r-*
liston is the lowest bidder with the than necessary to supply the
Sterling Co. of Minneapolis second.
Both bids were made strictly in com
pliance with the city's specifications.
The commission and other city offi
cials will meet Tuesday, February
first to let the contract.
Welsh Male Singers
Delight Audience
The Royal Gwent Welsh Male Sing
ers, who came to the city under en
gagement with Company E, at their
concert Monday evening came fully
up to the expectations of their large
and appreciative audience. In solos,
duets, trios and choruses they gave
a wide range of selections from pop
ular old favorites to the Hallelujah
Chorus that were so heartily applaud
ed that encores were given after many
numbers.
The brilliant work of the singers in
the ensemble and harmony of their
chorus numbers is the most praise
worthy of their program.
The individual voices were also very
fine, especially that of Ben Jones, the
celebrated baritone. It is very diffi
cult to give individual praise for all
were splendid voices and. remarkably
strong, the volume produced was as
tonishing.
The old, old songs of forty years
ago, of which the singers gave the au
dience several, made a distinct hit.
Annie Laurie, Eileen Allanna, Come
Where My Love Lies Dreaming and
Johnnie Smoker never sounded so
charming as when sung by these gift
ed voices from Wales.
Company E are to be congratulated
on the success of their first attrac
tion intended for the new armory. The
receipts were about $800. which leaves
the company a fair margin.
Coal and Hay Topics
Of Much Importance
It is getting to be regular old fash
ioned winter such as the old timers
tell of. A second cold wave arrived
Sundav evening and the mercurv
got down in the neighborhood of 20
below several days this week. The
Traveling by team over unbroekn
roads is very difficult. Stock men in
some places are beginning be ap
nrphpnsive. Hay in some localities is
as high as $18 per ton.
Some towns not located near mines
are getting short of coal and are
wiring orders to local mine operators.
Williston coal men find it difficult to
fill these orders promptly as it taxe^
their hmiline canacitv to sunnly the
city, which is estimated to be usinr?
200 tons every 24 hours
Trains, especially from the west,
are running three to 24 ho'ir^
the branch lines being in especially
bad shape.
Class
Williston Graphic
THE PROPOSED BOND ISSUE
FOR ARMORY-AUDITORIUM
Present Status of the Matter—Object
of City Bond Issue-City Would
Own Building—No Actual Invest
ment Expected.
February 18 the voters of the city will be confronted by a re
sponsibility of citizenship of considerable importance, that date
being the one set for the special election to vote on the question of
the city issuing bonds in the sum of $13,500. Such bonds to bear
4 per cent interest and mature in sums of from $1,000 to $2,000
annually from the 11th to the 20th year after issue. The proceeds
of the sale of the bonds to be used in the construction of the Wil
liston Armory-Auditorium. The call for the election, setting forth
the particular terms and purpose of the election will be found on
another page of this issue. The proposition is one with which
many of the busy people of the city are perhaps not fully familiar
and they owe it to themselves and the city to learn and consider
the facts of the present status of the case and what the proposed
move means in the future.
As everyone knows the structure is now nearing completion.
The business of raising funds and carrying forward the work of
construction has been in the hands of The Williston Military
Training School Association, an incorporated concern organized
by the officers and men of Company E, largely for the purpose of
conducting this enterprise. The Association purchased the site
and has clear title to it. It is well located and worth from $3,000
to $4,000. The structure, not including the site, when complete
will represent a cost of about $27,500.
TO SAVE $8,760
Approximately $10,000 was subscribed toward the enterprise
by the liberal business people of the city. The further sum of
$5,000 was received from the state according to legal provisions
intended to encourage the erection of armories for the companies
of the state regiment of the National Guard. This sum is not, as
is commonly understood, an outright contribution but for business
reasons is put in the form of along term, low rate loan, payment
of which, it is stated, may never be required. This leaves some
$12,500 to be raised by loan. To guard against emergencies it
seems best to provide for $1,000 additional. If the city votes bonds
the $13,500. can be secured from the state at 4 per cent. If the
Association borrows the sum from private sources they will be
compelled to pay at least 7 per cent and probably 8 per cent. The
difference between 4 per cent and 8 per cent on $13,500, running
for the periods contemplated, is $8,760. The difference between 4
per cent and 7 per cent is $6,570.
CITY WOULD OWN THE BUILDING
To save this extra, needless interest by using the credit of the
city is the object of the bond issue. The state cannot loan the
money except upon the bonds of the city. On the other hand the
city cannot issue bonds to pay for a building unless it owns the
building. Therefore the Association, if the bonds are voted, will
deed the property to the city outright. Let no one misunderstand
this important fact—the city will own the building. But, while it
might become necessary to do so, it is not contemplated that the
city will invest in the property a single dollar raised by tax levy.
It is proposed that if the city becomes the owner of the property
to lease it to the Association for an annual sum sufficient to pay all
interest and create a sinking fund that will take care of the bonds
as they mature, and also meet the expense of insurance and main
tainance. Members of the City Commission and of the Associa
tion, who have carefully estimated, feel confident that the revenues
of the building, adapted as it is to many purposes, will be ample to
take care of these funds. Company E is allowed by the state $500.
per year for armory rental and this sum alone is more than suffi
cient to pay the interest. In addition to this the building should
earn $1,200. or more per year which would be considerably more
necessary to supply the sinking and maintainance funds.
sinking
But it must be considered that if the building did not produce
sufficient revenue for all needs the Association would not be able
to continue to lease it at a loss and the city would find it necessary
to meet the difference by provision in the tax levy.
The subject will be continued in further detail and other
phases in next week's issue.
serious feature is the continued fall fcut the members of the association re
of snow which drifts as it falls, elected him.
Annual Meeting
Wednesday evening the annual ses-j
sion of the local lodere, B. P. O. E..!
was called at the home at which
a class of candidates was initiated. A
big "feed" as a feature of the even
ing and the members were cleverly,
entertained by A. J. Wallen of Glen
wood. Minn. Mr. Allen, who is a
friend of Dr. Strong, is an entertainer
of high talent.
WILLISTON, WILLIAMS COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1916. $1.50 PER YEAR IN ADVANCE
and maintainance funds.
«I. I_ 1 1 4 4 4 A Km HiH nnf ni*A/1l
Dr. Worst Retires,
Waldron New Head
Farsro, N. D.. Jan. 24.—After serv
ing 15 consecutive years as president,
Dr. John H. Worst has retired as ex
ecutive of the Tri-State Grain Grow
ers' association. It was President
Worst's intention to retire last year,
The new officers of the organiza
tion are: President, C. B. Waldron,
dean of the agricultural department
of the North Dakota agricultural col
lege vice president, G. W. Randlett
of the state college of agriculture,
Brookings, S. D. secretary, W. C.
Palmer of the extension department
of the North Dakota agricultural col
lege.
The attendance this year exceeded
all previous years. The range of sub
jects discussed was such as to five a
maximum of information to farmers.
The matter of preparedness. m«f Vot
ing and co-operation through farm
ers' clubs was discussed from all
angles.
Special Election
Reset For Feb. 18
To meet lesral requirements the date
of the special city election, to elect a
member of the City Commission and
vote on the auditorium bond proposal,
has been changed to Friday, February
18. The amended notices of election
will be found in this issue.
S*»te
HUtto
J. R.--HIS OTHER
NAME IS LEGION
O N A IT O A E S IN
DROVES-DANGER TO TREES IS
SERIOUS—RABBIT YARNS
THE FESTIVE JACK
GETTING IN BAD
Killing Coyotes Allows Rabbits
Increase—Trees Or Jacks
Must Go
To
People tell stories of times when it
rained fish or froge or various kinds
of insects but the question is does it
ever snow jack rabbits. If not where
have they all come from?
Stories from the country say John
is marching on the farmers in com
panies, regiments and brigades he is
remarkably neighborly and fear
seems to have left him. He fills the
roadway ahead of teams and in spots
makes the snow fields take on the ap
pearance of life and motion.
Trees Will Suffer
The sad truth is John is feeling the
pinch of winter. He is by nature im
provident he never lays up a winter
store of food like the squirrel or the
gopher, nor does he hibernate or bur
row-up like the badger, the skunk or
the muskrat. John R. is an above
ground hustler and takes his chances
with the coyote and the grouse. When
the snow is deep his chance for food
diminishes and the instinct for self
preservation causes him to gather in
droves wherever any sort of food is to
be found. At such times the big hare
is a destructive agent to be reckoned
with for in a few minutes he can ruin
a tree that has received years of at
tention, if it is not in some way pro
tected. Tree bark is at or close to
the top of the list of Jack's favorite
winter menu but when hungry enough
he will set his teeth to many things
less juicy, including common hay.
Worst At Wildrose
So far no reports have been receiv
ed locally of actual ferocity by tlie
hungry ra&bit hordes but it is often
said that certain kinds of liquor will
make a jack rabbit fight a bull dog
(and lick him, too) and -it appears
that the jacks around Wildrose have
been driven to strong drink. A story
sent out from that town this week
says:
ee-eating, dog-fighting and
thieving rabbits are pestering the
farmers of this district—and many
and varied are reports made of the
activities of the long eared jacks.
That the rabbits are so numerous
to cause losses to farmers, is not
questioned, some of the stories told
questioned, but some of the stories
told are highly picturesque.
Jens Thompson sent his trusty
shepherd dot?
after
a big jack rabbit.
For 15 minutes the jack gave battle
to the dog, but superior weight be
gan to tell and the rabbit took to his
heels, but not until he had made life
rather miserable for his adversary.
Now Thompson's dog shies clear of
rabbits.
As Bad As Beaver
Hans Rice declares his dog, ordin
ary a good hunter and fine scrapper,
won't venture to face the squad of
rabbits that makes a nightly visit to
his premises, and which has been re
sponsible for heavy grain losses.
Ed Larson found 50 rabbits around
this haystack, the rabbits making way
with the hay in rapid order.
Hans Rice also tells the story of
rabbits eatin gtrees, declaring he has
lost many trees in that manner, the
rabbits climbing up on their hind feet,
eating the bark and into the wood,
with the result that the trees finally
fall over.
James Goebel, night watchman, in
sists that rabbits are doing all the
scavanger work in the town, making
nightly visits to refuse cans, and that
they are cominsr in increasing num
bers every night."
F#»wpr Covotes, More Jacks
The law that puts a liberal bounty
on
fhe
is a boon to his natural
prey. There is relentless war on
covotes while few trouble to kill r*»b
bits. A bounty on rabbits, some
will become necessary to make
three culture successful. The iack rab
bit, they say. presents a weak case at
the court of human consideration—he
destroys property and aside from be
ine a very doub+ful article of food, is
of no known service to man.
NINE WILL GET DIPLOMAS
XTine
rurpl
school pupils success­
fully passed the December eicrhth
grade examinations and are entitled
to eighth grade diplomas. The grad
uates are: Myrtle Boystrem, Oscar
Boystrem, Margaret Ward, Cleo M.
Bontrager, Bessie Smith. Howard
Roberts, Clara Thorstad, Melvin
Hicks and Clara Olson.
JUNE RACE MEET
FOR WILLISTON
FIVE-CITY CIRCUIT ORGANIZED
AT HAVRE—LOCAL HORSE
MEN INSTRUMENTAL
L. S. CHAMPINE
CIRCUIT SECRETARY
Williston Has First Meet—Three
Days, June 6, 7, 8—Other Towns
In Montana
Williston will have a big summer
attraction in the form of a three-dsy
race meet early in June. The matter,
of a Montana-Dakota circuit, which
has received the attention of horse
men for some time, was brought to ft
successful conclusion at Havre this
week.
L. S. Champine, who takes much
interesting in racing affairs and owns
some good horses that have been giv
ing a good account of themselves oa
northwestern cricuits, went to Havre
Saturday, in the interests of Willis
ton, and met representatives from
Montana towns. The new circuit will
without doubt create great interest
all along the line and Williston's
dates should draw many people to til*
city. An entry list including many
of the fastest steppers in the country
is anticipated.
Organized Under American Ass'it.
The following account of the or
ganization of the circuit is from the
Havre Daily Promoter of the 24th
which says:
"Leading harness horse men from
the northern part of the state and
from Williston, N. D., foregathered
in the city last evening in the office
of Secretary McCroskey, of the Cham
ber of Commerce and effected an or
ganization to be known as the Great
Northern Racing Circuit. Represen
tatives were here from Williston, N.
D., Glasgow and Chinook, and tele
grams from horsemen of Fort Bentos
and Kalispell, who were unable t*
get here because of the train ser
vice were received and read. They
expressed a desire to affiliate with
the organization and assurred them
that they would be in on anything
they, might see fit to do in the way
of arranging for a spring and early
summer circuit for this section of the
state.
The association was duly organized
under the rules and regulations of
the American Trotting Horse Asso
ciation and will be affiliated with this
great organization.
The organization was perfected
with the following officers:
T. E. McCroskey, president P. N.
Bernard, of Kalispell, vice president^
S. C. Moore, of Glasgow, vice presi
dent L. S .Chamnine of Williston,
N. D., circuit secretary.
The president and secretary of the
association were authorized to entrage
an official starter for the association."'
Dates and Program
The dates set for the first seasom
are:
June 6, 7, and 8—Williston.
June 13, 14, and 15—Glasgow.
June 20, 21, and 22—Chinook.
June 27, 28, and 29—Havre.
July 4, 5, and 6—Kalispell.
The program for the meetings was*
arranged as follows:
First Day
2:30 pacing stake $700'
2:15 trotting class race 400
5 furlong dash run 150'
7 furlong dash run 200
Second Day
2:12 pacing stake $700'
2:25 trotting stake.... 700
4 1-2 furlong dash run 150
6 furlong dash run 200
Third Day
2:20 pacing stake $700
2:16 pacing class race 400
5 1-2 furlong dash run 150
One mile run 200"
Williston Merchant
Wants New Ideas
Have you some good ideas concern
ing the sort of goods you like to find
in your favorite trading places and
the manner you prefer to see emnloy
ed in arranging and displaying them?
If you have, and your ideas prove to
be the best offered one Williston mer
chant will pay you for them.
T. C. Hutchinson, one of the most
enterprising and original dealers in
the city, believes his customers can
furnish him with valuable suggcs.
tions for selecting and displaying the
wares handled in his 5,10, and 25 cent
store and offers cash prizes, in an
advertisement in this issue, for 500
word letters on the topics.
