f>e prr copy. $1.00 per year.
WASHINGTON SOCIALISTS LEAD!
Biggest Gain in United States! Socialist Party of Washington Heads the
List of States in the Growth of Dues Paying Members for the Year 1915
FORGING AHEAD!!
INCREASE OF MEMBERSHIP
MOST ENCOURAGING
WASHINGTON REDS HEAD LIST
In spite of the fact that 101." was
I var for the |TOWth of the So
otaUal bm mbershlp, owing to the bad
financial conditions, Washington forg>
ed ahead and made the biggest gain
of any state in the union.
Only six states made a gain in So
cialist membership last year over
that of 11» 14. They are: Washington,
Oklahoma. Maine, Vermont, Georgia
and Delaware.
The total membership decreased
14.201 last year under that of 1914.
The biggest loss was made by the
state of California, which lost a total
of 1,709 members. Among- the other
western states showing a decrease,
were Idaho and Oregon, with a loss
of 240 and 291 respectively.
Washington gains seventh place on
the list for size of membership. In
1914 it was tenth. The states, ar-!
ranged in accordance with their nu-1
merical standing, come In the follow- ■
ing order: New York 9783, Oklahoma
7207, Pennsylvania 6666, Illinois 6001,
Ohio 4278, Wisconsin 3660, Washing
ton 3622.
WASHINGTON SECOND!
Oklahoma stands first state in the '
Union for number of party members ■
in proportion to the population. Wash-,
ington follows Oklahoma, and shows
double the membership of, say, Wis ;
consin, in proportion to its total popu
lation, and three times that of Ohio.
Altogether now to catch up with,!
and then surpass, Oklahoma at the
end of 1916!
THE 1916 CAMPAIGN
Campaign subs are beginning to
come in. The Scandinavian Socialist
Club of Bellingham sends in seven i
subs and Comrade S. Obrink informs
us that a campaign committee has
been appointed.
Comrade Jack Laymon of Local
Port Angeles sends in ten subscrip- ;
tions in answer to our call for an
energetic campaign.
Comrade A. M. Calbert of Kelso or-,
ders sub cards. I-ocal Kelso put .r.
subscribers on the list a couple of
weeks ago and they are going out for
more.
Portland, Ore., comrades are send
ing in for bundles every week to help
in their meetings.
LYCEUM COURSE
George K. Kirkpatrick, the first of
the National Lyceum speakers, will
be in Everett on March 2'i. The
other speakers, Ryan Walker and
Kmil Seidel, will follow one
apart.
PROFESSOR BOWMAN OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF WASHINGTON, WILL SPEAK IN
EVERETT NEXT SUNDAY EVEN
ING, JANUARY THE 30th
it la not often that the people of Bverett have an opportunity
to hear a member of the University faculty speak on ni" Labor
movement. They will, however, be gives such ;i privilege on next
Sunday evening at 8 o'clock, the subject to be "The Labor Move
incut in Relation to Social Progress in Europi
Professor Howman has studied 11 i subject in Europe and it
is safe to say that few are belter qualified '■> speak autborlta
on the topic than he is.
The lecture is under the auspices ol the Social study Club
thru lias been recently organized, and is tin- first of a series that
is being arranged for.
The lectun will be given in THE FORUM, 1012 California Si.
Admission free. Everybody welcome Come and bring your
friends.
■■■■Hi .:,«■"■ i*i v-4 - . _ ■
A HORRIBLE EXAMPLE
•EAGLE" OF LOW MENTALITY
The eaiile -brained accident tha'v
does service for a reporter -editor for
the Snohomish department of the
Morning Tribune gives liis Idea oi
Soclaliism in the following story:
HOBOES DIVIDE UP
And Watson Has Only Half His Wood
Pile Chopped
Due day early this week a long,
lean hobo entered the Watson bak
ery and asked the junior partner, Mr.
Arthur Watson, if he might do some
work for something to eat. Mr. Wat
| son, thinking of the nice wood pile
he had at the back of the bakery,
said "Certainly." After the tramp
had exercised himself with the axe
for a short time Mr. Watson filled
! a large bag with tempting bakery
I "goodies" and presented it to him.
This hobo had started out of the
' driveway when another appeared and
i requested work for a bite to eat.
He was given the same job and Wat
son went inside of the bakery. Two
i minutes later he returned and saw
' the two tramps walking arm in arm
! out of the driveway. The first tramp
I had generously offered to share his
i lunch •wflth him so that the latter
would not have to work. An example
of Socialism.
Please note, gentle reader, how
this ignoramus seeks to con
vt•>• the impression that Socialism is
a plan whereby those who produce
nothing shall have in abundance, a la
capitalism, and those who split half
a pile of wood for ten cents' worth
of bakery stuff, shall "divide up" with
the idle, as under capitalism.
The lJukc of Rutland introduced
Ben Tillett, the once fiery strike lead
er, to a mixed audience at a recruit- j
ing meeting in London, England, re
cently. Hen Tillett gave a word pic
ture of how he has seen the "toffs"
and the truckmen fighting in tha
trend). ■ inr "dear old England." With
a forcefulnesi that brought great ap
plause from the fashionably dressed!
women In the audience, he demanded
his fellow workers to get out and give
the Germans "more shells, more gas
ami more hell "
CARD PARTY FRIDAY
A card party is t<> be held next Fri
., aim iii The Forum and every
i • ■ Friday If w« can get
■h tables filled to warrant it.
PriK are i Iven away at every party
and - d Bpend your
next Friday evening with us, It will
only coal you ten mils.
DEVOTED TO THE INDUSTRIAL, POLITICAL, AND EDUCATIONAL ADVANCEMENT OF THE WORKING CLABS
WHAT IS PATRIOTISM?!
: AN ANALYSIS {
OF CAPITALISM
The Johnsonion Definition, nnd Others
The answer depends largely upon
the point of view. From one stand
point patriotism appears as the ac
tual religion of the modern state.
From another it is the decadence and
perversion of a noble and deep-rooted
-impulse of loyalty to the social unit,
acquired by mankind during the
earlier stages of social life. From
yet another viewpoint, that, of capi
talist interests, patriotism is nothing
more or less than a convenient and
potent instrument of domination.
The word itself, both etymological
ly and historically, has its root In
paternity. In tribal days the feeling
of social solidarity, which has now
become debased into patriotism, was
completely bound up with the religion
of ancestor worship. In tribal reli
gion, as in the tribe itself, all were
united by ties of blood. The gods
and their rites and ceremonies were
exclusive to the tribesmen. All strang
ers were rigidly debarred from wor
ship. The gods themselves were usu
ally dead warriors. Every war was
a holy war. Among the ancient Israel
ites, for instance, the hold Ark of
Jehovah of Hosts accompanied the
tribes to battle. It was this abode or
movable tomb of the ancestral deity
tljat went with the Jews in their
march through the dftsert, and even
to Jericho; playing an important part
in the fall of that remarkable city.
All the traditions of the Jewish reli
gion, in fact, were identified with
great national triumphs.
The Merits of the Early Brand
Thus tribal religion was completely
interwoven with tribal aspirations
and integrity. Tribal "patriotism"
and religion were identical. Indeed,
without the strongest possible social
bond, without a kind of "patriotism"
that implied the unhesitating self
sacrifice of the individual for the com
munal existence, it would have been
utterly Impossible for tribal man to
jhave won through to civilization. Nat
! Ural selection insured that only those
social groups which developed this
supreme instinct of mutual aid could
survive; the rest were crushed out
in the struggle for existence. Is it a
matter for wonder if it be found that
such a magnificent social impulse, so
vital to the struggling groups of trib
al man, received periodical conaecra
lion in the willing human sacrifice so
common in primitive religous cere
monial? Bound up with the deliber
ate manufacture of gods for the pro
tection of the tribe and its works,
there is indicated a social recognition
of the need for, and value of, the sac
rifice of the individual for the com
mon weal.
This noble impulse of social solidar
: ity is tin? common inheritance of all
mankind. But being a powerful so
cial force it has lent itself to ex
ploitation. Therefore with the devel
opment of class rule this great im-
I pulse is made subordinate to the class
Interest of the rulers. It becomes
debfl • 'I and perverted to definite anti
• I ends. As soon as the people
become a slave class "the land of
their fathers" is their no more. Pa
triotism to them becomes a fraudu
lent thing. The "country" is that of
their masters alone. Nevertheless,
the instinct of loyalty to the com
munity is too deep-seated to be eradi
cated so easily, and it becomes a
deadly weapon in the hands of the
rulers against the people themselves.
With the decay of society based on
kinship, religion changed also; and
from being tribal and exclusive it be-
THE
BVBRBTT, WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, .IAN. 27, 191 G.
By F. C. WATTS, London, England
came universal and propagandist.
"Patriotism" at the snmo time began
to distinguish Itself from religion.
The Instinctive tribal loyalty became
transformed, by the aid of religion
and tho fiction of kinship, Into politi
cal loyalty. In a number of Instances
in political society, as In Tudor Eng
land, the s!niggle for priority between
religion and patriotism became so
acute as to help In the introduction
of a more subservient form of reli
gion. Thus patriotism became eman
cipated from religion, and the latter
became a mere accessory to patriot
ism as handmaiden of class rule.
A Most Accommodating Conception
Though universal religion did not
split up at the same time as the great
empire that gave It birth, patriotism
did so. The latter has, In fact, always
adapted, enlarged, or contracted itself
to fit the existing political unit,
whether feudal estate, village,' town
ship, country, kingdom, republic or,
empire. No political form has been
t«> abaurd for It to ffll with its loyal
tyfllilfc<Hscor(Jance '^.race, color or
language has been universally effec
tive against it.
What Patriotism Is
What, then, is patriotism in essence
today? It is usually defined as being
devotion to the land of our fathers.
But which is the land of our fathers?
Our fathers came from many differ
ent parts of the world. The political
division of the world in which we live
Is an artificial entity. The land has
been wrested from other races. The
naton they call "ours" is the result
of a conquest over original inhabi
tants, and over ourselves, by succes
sive ruling classes. Unlike the free
tribesmen we are hirelings; we pos
sess no country.
Nationality, of which patriotism is
the superstition, covers no real en
tity other than that of a common op
pression, a unified government. It
does not comprise any unity of race,
for in no nation is there one pure
race, or anything like it. It does not
cover a unity of language, for scarce
ly a nation exists in. which several
distinct languages are not indigenous.
Nor ia it any fixity of territory, for
this changes from decade to decade,
while Ihe inhabitants of the trans
ferred territory have to transfer their
allegiance, their patriotism, to the
new nation.
The Product of the Analysis
The only universal bond of nation
ality or patriotism that, exists for us
today is, then, that of subjection to a
single government. Patriotism in the
worker is pride In tho common yoke
imposed by a politically united ruling
class. Yet it is this artifical entity
that we are called upon to honor
above life itself. This badge of po
litical servitude is called an object
worthy of supreme sacrifice. The
workers are expected to abandon all
vital interests and sacrifice all they
hold dear for the preservation of an
artificial nationality that is little more
than a manufactured unit of discord:
a mere focus of economic and politi
cal strife.
Thus one of the noblest fruits of
man's social evolution —the impulse
of sacrifice for the social existence
is being prostituted by the capitalist
class to maintain a system of exploi
tation, to obtain a commercial suprem
acy, and preserve or extend the boun
daries of a superfluous political en
tity. The workers are duped by the
ruling class into sacrificing them
selves for the preservation of a politi
co-economic yoke of a particular form
anil color. Many 80-Called Socialists
have fallen headlong into this obvious
trap,
Had .social solidarity developed in
equal measure with the broadening
of tnen'l real interests, it would now
h<- universal in character Instead of
national. The wholesale mixture of
races, and the economic interdepend
ence of the whole world, show that
nationalism is now a barrier, and
patriotism, as we know it, a curse.
Only the whole world can now be
rightly called the land of our fathers.
Only In the service of the people of
the whole world, and not against those
of any part of it, can the instinct of
social service find its highest and
complete expression. The great So
cialist has pointed the way. He did
not call upon the workers of Germany
alone to unite. He appealed to the
toilers of the whole world to join i
hands; to a whole world of labor
whose only loss could be its parti
colored chains. And in this alone lies
the consummation of that tribal in
stinct of social solidarity of which ]
patriotism is the perverted descend
ant.
Something Better Than Patriotism
Capitalism, therefor* stands as the i
barrier the destruction of which will i
not only set free the productive forces
of society for the good of all, but
will also liberate human solidarity
and brotherhood from the narrow con-'
fines of nationality and patriotism.
Only victorious labor can make true
the simple but pregnant statement: i
"Mankind are my brethren, the world i
is my country." Patriotism and na
tionalism as we know them will then
be remembered only as artificial re- 1
strictions of men's sympathy and mv- '
tual help; as obstacles to the^ expan- '
sion of the human mind; as impedi- '
ments to the needful and helpful de
velopment of human unity and co-op- !
eratlon; as bonds that bound men to i!
slavery; as incentives that set broth- :
ers at each others' throats.
Despite its shameless perversion by
a robber class the great impulse to
human solidarity is by no means dead.
Economic factors give it an ever firm
er basis, and in the Socialist move
ment it develops apace. Even the
hellish system of individualism, with
its doctrine of every man for himself
and the devil take the hindmost, has1 j
been unable to kill it. And the great
class struggle of the workers against;
the drones, of the socially useful
against the socially pernicious, in this j
last great struggle for the liberation
of humanity from wage slavery, the j
great principle of human solidarity,
based upon the necessities of today.
and Impelled by the deep-seated in-!
sUncts of the race, will come to full
fruition and win its supreme histori-'
cal battle.
That is our hope and inspiration,
For the present, however, we are sur
rounded by the horrors of war added j
to the horrors of exploitation, and
subjected to the operation of open
repression as well as to the arts of
hypocrisy and fraud. With the weak
ening power of religion to keep the
workers obedient, the false cult of
nationality and patriotism is being
exploited to the full. Like religion,
patriotism has its vestments, its cere
monies, its sacred emblems, its sac-1
red hymns and inspired music; all of;
which are called in in aid of the clasa
Interests of our masters, and utilized
desperately to lure millions to the
shambles for their benefit. Thus i.s
an heroic and glorious social impulse
Congressman Meyer London
Opposes Preparedness
The news has been spread broad
cast by the capitalist press that May
er London, the Socialist congressman,
is for preparedness. Many Socialists
believe it to be the truth, but after
reading the following from a recent
speech by Meyer London, they will
probably take the news that comes
via the capitalist press with a grain J
of sale. If you want the REAL news, j
get it from The Northwest Worker.
In referring to the Socialist party,
Meyer Londc^n said:
There is only one living force in
American politics, and that is the So
cialist movement.
The Democrats are incompetent for
good.
The Republicans are competent for
mischief.
The Progressives are dead, and be
long to the graveyard.
The Socialist party represents the
TODAY of the largest group of so
ciety—the working class —and the
TOMORROW of humanity at large.
The phrase "working class" embraces
the worker, farmer, the professional
man —all whose source of existence
is service.
The Socialist party has made the
solution of the proW£W~6T""|!bverty its
great mission, and it has necessarily
gathered around itself and will con-1
tinue to. gather all to whom other i
questions and other problems appear
of minor importance.
There is no essential difference be- j
tween the old political parties. The '
leaders of the Democratic party were
clever enough to steal from the Re- !
publicans the slogans of "American
ism" and "Preparedness," and by the
Anti-Dumping bill, which is merely a
stupid form of protective tariff, the
Democrats revert to "protection."
There will be no issue of principle
in the 1916 campaign between the two
old parties. It will be purely a ques
tion of the personality of the candi
dates.
While asking people to vote the
Socialist ticket, I realize that we can
not in 1916 elect a Socialist president.
MUNITION MAKERS TO
WAGE WAR ON FORD
Two automobile wizards — Henry
Ford and Walter C. Durant— are about
to declare war.
The two men hold exactly opposite
views on international affairs. Ford
opposes war, and all plans for war;
! while the dv Pont powder ] interests
i are said to be behind Durant in a
i wide-reaching plan to monopolize the
trade in munition supplies.
It is urged that dv Pont, the pow-
I der man, and other makers of muni
tions, are making Durant the prey of
the arms makers and that they seek
to belittle and undermine Ford in ev
ery way they can and claim it a plan
to wrest from Ford the control of the
cheap trade.
The wizards of Wall street are us
ing Walter Durant to break down the
plans and preparations of Henry Ford
against war preparedness, Ford's
friends now claim.
Two million laborites, including 30,
--000 anti-war Socialists, are in conven
tion in England to decide their posi
ton toward the war and conscription.
This is the biggest conference ever
held.
Patronize YOUR Advertisers.
perverted and debased to the support
of a regime of wage-slavery and to
the furtherance of the damnable pol
icy of the slave-holding class: to
divide and rule.
We can, however, elect a sufficiently
large number of members to congress
to constitute (he BALANCE OF
POWER IN CONGRESS. We can be
the motor power of American political
life.
We shall urge the need of an im
mediate remedy for our industrial
evils, the immediate enactment of un
employment insurance, sickness in
surance, and of old age pensions, the
elimination of child labor, the en-
franchisement of women, and the na
tionalization of monopolized indus
tries, and the nationalization of mines
and railroads, the telephone and the
telegraph.
We shall oppose the preparedness
campaign, which is a ;nere reflection
of the insanities of Europe, and which
is calculated to divert the people's
minds to non-existent external ene
mies so that we may not prepare for
the fight at home with the internal
enemy, the industrial oligarchy of the
land. ,
WE SHALL, ANSWER THE PAN
ICKY CRY FOR PREPAREDNESS
WITH AN AGGRESSIVE CAM
PAIGN FOR INTERNATIONAL
PEACE.
We shall ask for a scientific method
of taxation —a tax on incomes, an in
heritance tax, and a tax on land held
for speculative purposes.
The Democratic party promises the
impossible; it holds out the false hope
of satisfying every group and every
class of humanity. Assuming to speak
in the name of the people, it fears to
antagonize the rich.
The Republicans have nothing new
to suggest. Like the Democrats, they
would maintain things essentially as
they are.
There WAS a Progressive party.
Its remnants are seeking shelter un
der the wings of the Republican or
ganization.
We, the Socialists, shall rally
around our banner all who are scan
ning the horizon for the Lincolns of
1916, who will emancipate the race
from the curse of wage-slavery.
SMALL GROUP OWN
ALL WATER POWER
IN UNITED STATES
Eighteen Corporations Control Over
Half of That Used in Pub
lic Utilities
WASHINGTON.—ControI of the
country's water power used in public
service operations has passed into
the hands of a comparatively small
group of corporations, with an almost
"endless maze of interconnections,"
according to a special report to the
department of agriculture sent to
congress.
It shows 18 corporations control
over half the water power employed
in all public utilities, while over one
quarter are controlled by the follow
ing six corporations: Stone & Web
ster Management Association; Mon
tana Power Company; Utah Securi
ties Corporation; B. W. Clarke & Co.
Management Corporation; Southern
Power Company and the Hydraulic
Company of Niagara Falls. Stono &
Webster are the largest single holder
Of water power.
The United States district court in
New Haven, Conn., has granted a
■ foreclosure on the homes of the 140
tiers of United Hatters for boy
cotting the Loewe Co. This ia the
final chapter in ten years of litiga
tion. The workers' homes and prop
erty are to be sold to realize the $262,
--000 damages.
No. 2f>4
