THE BARRE HM.LY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 2G8.
HAKIUC VKKMONT, THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1910.
PRICK, ONE CENT.
SUEZ CANAL
IS SERIOUSLY
ENDANGERED
BRITISH LABOR
IS OPPOSED TO
CONSCRIPTION
By Vote of 1,796,000 to 219,000 Protested
Against Adoption of the Policy
in Any Form.
Bristol, England, Jan. 27. A resolu
tioit protesting in the name of tho Na
tional Labor party against the adoption
of conscription in any form was passed
t. TM:,W, A-ir Tlpf prm- by the labor congress to-day by a vote
v I . e i mi . i, : i nmruut '
I Ul l,.U,OOU HgHlUBb lli,oou.
German Reports State that
ing Southerly Approach to
the Canal Is Cooped Up in
CLAIM GREAT DAMAGE DONE.
BRITISH ARE SAID TO
HAVE LOST HEAVILY
In the Balkans, the Austri
ans Are Advancing Stead
Aden Near the Entrance Germans Say Their Aeroplane Attack
i ud uover.was auccessrui
tO the Red Sea Berlin. Jan. 27. bv wireless to Say
ville. The Hamburg Freuulenblatt re
ports that one of tho bombs dropped by
the (icrman nir squadron, when it raided
Dover ofi Monday fell on a dejiosit of
mines which exploded and canned enor
mous .devastation in the neighborhood.
Thirty-nine persons, including one olli-
eer mid 24 soldiers the newspaper says,
were killed.
According to tho Fremdenblatt's ac
count tho explosion did not take place
until fifteen minutes after the bomb had
landed, so that the soldiers at first bo-
1 n 1. j AtKovtia Jlevo1 1,10 missle was Harmless. Kall-
lly boutnwara in viuaind ,.oad Clir8 tlUeii with proVjSions an(i ,ev.
Tir.UUe TfrtQf,'r,v vintVi Sp- cottages are reported to have been
VVlUluuu v. destroyed.
. -r :4.vw,rt Ivnf tho One transport anchored in the harbor
nous Resistance, mi uie i di( b the e lo8ion Md SftIlk
nrrr,; Hpvp Reverse imJ?ediutdJr-
jjuigoiimiM I twenty severely wounded persons
were transported to a London hospital
The British aeroplanes, the newspaper
irao, n II C HUli J LRU J 111 VllllO uv.
British possession or territory fense.
intr the"Suex canal route at its southern
end is imperilled by attacks made- by WJLgQM REPEATS
bodies of Arabs and Turks on the
British forces in southwestern Arabia, STAND ON SUFFRAGE
according to advices from German
sources. The implication in the dis- He Says It Is a Question Which Should
patches is that the British army is now Be DeaU with. by the individual
virtually cooped up at Aden near the en- , states.
tram to the Red sea. which must oe
it k. -wwt annroaeh to the Now York, Jan. 27. President Wilson
. . . . . . i a refused to-day to support a movement
Sum canal is to be protected. A similar u gn Rmen(imollt to the federal congti.
situation was reported througn berman tution providing for woman suffrage. He
agencies several weeks ago, but London spoke briefly to 200 members of the Con
h announced officially that no appre- ressional Union for Woman Suffrage
. . . . . x (V. .,t and told them he felt that the suffrage
hension was entertained as to the out- question g,Kmli, deaU wjth fcy th- ,n.
come of the operations. dividual state. Efforts made by Mrs.
The Austrians, having secured posses- Mjiry Heard, wife of a Columbia univer
sion of virtually all Montenegro, whose f'ty professor, to cross-examine the pres-
h Ull 1I1B JHJSIL1UJ1, Jilt I, W IL II lUUUrt!
nrefliiiVrit rpfuHPti ronrtVoiisl v in r
na, are iasc laying aowa wicn ply to Jwr queries.
pushing southward in Albania without
ODD FELLOWS
LOST HEAVILY
Their Temple and All the
Paraphernalia at Al
bany, N. Y., Burned
80 AUTOMOBILES
ALSO DESTROYED
Loss Sustained Early This
- -'lorning Amounted
to $250,000
Albany, .K. Y., Jan. 27. Firo early
this morning destroyed tho Odd Fellows
temple and partly destroyed an adjoin
ing building with a loss which is esti
mated at $250,000. In the temple was
he entire paraphernalia of every Odd
Fellows' organization in the city and
all of it was destroyed. Eighty auto
mobiles were also destroyed.
encountering much resistance. At the
last accounts, the Bulgarian forces co
operating with the Austrians had en
countered 'Albanian troops under Essad
Pasha and, according to unofficial ad
vices, had met with defeat.
COLONIAL WAR SOCIETY.
Selects Committees to Have Charge or
Several Arrangements.
i
Burlington, Jan. 27. A meeting of
the Society of Colonial Wars in the state
of Vermont was held here yesterday,
W. B. C. Stiekney of Rutland, governor
of the society, presiding, W. J. Van
Patten,, H. C. Humphrey and M. D.
rrr,T?T?TTT V nPrTMATPn I Chittenden of this city was appointed a
1 ravlVllL I UCjSIJIAICjU nominating committee to prepare the
list of officers to be voted on at the an-
German Report Has It That Arabs kndlnual meeting to be held on February 22.
tiovernor Stiekney, Gen. S. P. Joce-
BRITISH IN ARABIA
BIG HOTEL BURNED.
The Marshall House at York Harbor,
Me. Loss $200,000.
York Harbor, Me., Jan. 27. Tlse Mar
shall house, one of the oldest summer
hotels on the Maine coast, known to vis
itors from all parts of the country, was
burned last night with all its furnish
ings. It was being prepared for ttie
opening of the season, and was occu
pied only by a caretaker. The loss is
estimated at $200,000, part of which is
covered by insurance. The cause of the
tire has not been determined.
CARLOAD OF POWDER EXPLODED
More Than 30 Persons Were Injured at
Bluefield, W. Va.
JUuefield, W. Va., Jan. 27 More than
30 persons were injured, five seriously,
here last night, when a car loaded with
black powder blew up in the local yards
of the Norfolk and Western railroad,
Fire followed and before the flames
ould be controlled, several cars load
ed witlj meichandise had been destroyed.
Three cars containing dynamite were
on a nearby siding at the time, but nre
men succeeded in removing them to a
place of safety. The cause has not been
determined. The explosion occurred
about one mile and a half from the bus
ness section. The shock was felt for
miles and hundreds of windows were
broken. Many persons at first believed
that an earthquake had occurred.
BROWN'S DEATH
DEMONSTRATED
IN COURT ROOM
RECEIVERSHIP
IS HINTED AT
By Trolley Line Officials in
Seeking Concessions from
the Barre City Council
Defense in Case of State vs. Harlow
Hatch, Charged with Manslaughter,
Endeavored to Show How Prin
ciples Stood in the Shooting.
St. Johnsbury, Jan. 27. It is expect
ed that the arguments will be started in
Caledonia county court late this after
noon in tho case of State vs. Harlow
Hatch, charged with manslaughter in the
death of Sumner Brown in St. Johnsbury
last July. The defense closed its case
to-day and the prosecution put on two
witnesses in rebuttal.
Hatch, the respondent, finished his tes-
tlmony by illustrating how he held the Bam Councilors Offer aS.a
irfuivn h ueu h'iuwii mini nuwi, hum itiii-
erwards a demonstration was given in
the courtroom of the supposed situation
at the time of the shooting, Attorney
R. W. bunonds, a lawyer for the defense,
holding the revolver and Dr. W. G. Kick
er posing as the slain man. lhe sup
positional course of the bullet was shown
by means of a lead pipe.
During the -urse of his testimony
Hatch told about hjB trip with Brown to
BONDHOLDERS WILL
, HOLD OFF FOR A TIME
Solution of Trouble the Re
gained Good Will of Public
sistant Judge Dana, that he had paid ad
mission and received a ticket when tho
place was tilled, a ticket which was later
not recognized, and the theatre manager
had admitted that the ticket seller had
been in error and that the unpleasant
ness would not occur again.
Alderman Kyan submitted a proponal
made by (ieorge L. lilanchard, to allow
tho city to have tho use of the hitching
posts in tho rear of the opera house
block for $75 a vear but the proposition
did not meet with favor by tho council.
The body voted not to rent the hitching
posts but to request Mr. Hlanelisrd to
pav a bill amounting to $100 for a con
crete road and walk constructed by the
city with tho understanding tlmt the
property owner should pay tho bill. Mr.
lilanchard will le requested to pay the
bill or submit what he is willing to do.
Alderman Ryan, chairman of the
street committee, informed the council
that the cost of repairs to tho Chase
bridge on the Worcester road would oe
about $935.
The tinance committee was instructed
to ascertain what arrangements can bel
mads to have more telephones installed
in the city hall, the council considering
the present 'phones too few in number.
(eorge liaseltine appeared lor the
Welfare league to ask that the rule be
waived in regard to charging a fee for
AS GUESTS
OF BARRE MEN
Retail Monument Dealers of
Vermont and New Hamp
shire Are Busy
made by the Ilurre & Monlpelier Trnc
Danville and their return to Hatch's I tion 4. Power company, through three of
poolroom on the day of the shooting, itg officials at a special meeting of the
mine in me pooiroom iiarcn went to !t .,. t .... . .,i .11..
tho tnnmir drawer tn fill tun fmmrnm nun I
He nicked un a revolver out of the draw- noon- Charles H. Tenney of Spring
er, which he had kept there for some field, Mass., president of the Tenney cot
time, though he ,had never loaded it. poration, Manaacr H. D. Larrabee and
Brown, nis employe, had cleaned the w v rw - -n.H ..u.riiitpnW.
,..... 4,.. 41.. J.,.,. l.f. I ' " J " .- ;
n in i .v. ii tvu m un i o un i a uciuiv niiu, I , . . ir i
i,..b,. -i,. j if h ior me company, iresiueni rvci
Commenting on the revolver, Brown called the adjourned meeting of the ai-
saiil that that it Worked "like a lily" dcrmen to order at 4:30 o'clock and after
since he cleaned it and told Hatch he
ought to try it. Hatch acted on the
suggestion at once, presuming that the
revolver was still empty, and fired the
hot which kilisa his employe.
In describing Ins flight, he said that
Overtures for the privilege of curtail
ing its intorurban traction service were the use of the city hall auditorium, the
hall to lie used for charitable purposes.
According to a rule adopted by the eoun-
VISITING GRANITE
SHOPS AND QUARRIES
Thomas J. Ad' of Wood
stock W' Elected
Pr lf .ent
Si
cil, a unanimous vote is required to
grant the free use of the hall and this
vote was lacking, Alderman Frenier vot
ing nay, contending that the rule should
bo abolished altogether if it is not to be
lived up to. The fee is $10.
a formal adjournment had been taken
the mayor took the chair.
A few new angles from which the trae
SEEK VERMONT CHARTER.
To . Furnish Electrical Power in Barre
and Other Parts of State.
On petition of seven subscribers, the
Vermont public service commission has
Retail mor at dealers of Vermont
and New C pshire, who have been
here since Wt-mesday morning for their
annual midwinter meeting, had their
opportunities to-day for inspecting tho
multitudinous details that enter into the
quarrying and manufacture of Barre
granite. This morning the retailera
were taken in automobiles to the south
end, where they were given the freedom
of Barclay Bros. plant and there per
mitted to examine minutely the work
in progress. Again this afternoon the
visitors were entertained, as in the
morning, by the Granite Manufacturers'
association. A trip to the quarries
the man was dead, he became alarmed reqUeRt that the council abrogate the 'n y,ermon 811,1 ?eT?te;. au'"
and thought that his story of an acci-1 cliitrter agreement bv nermittimr the ?ther t,em' ln Iiarre an(1 Montm-Iier. lhe
tion company's plight may be viewed appointed February 24, next as a time !pr0ved to be one of the most enjoyabid
tt., n,t.,l Tt T,nn,- l,t for for hearing on the application for a features of th tH-o-dnva' ratliorino.
he started first for a telephone intending ' ' rf i' L,.rb i, rnBA charter for a $1,000,000 corporation to t..i , , .... ,, - .
to call a doctor and then, thinking that offlclaI-WJ rpgolvpd into tlie old-time I known as the Central Power Corpora-. d , V" nrt, for the first time.
Several of the larger quarric" were in
spected and at the Boutwell, Milne &
Varnum plant the party was served
with refreshments, cigars and souvenirs
. . e . l. . .. t i. . - 1.
move-t of the company in Middlebury. The .l"'J- , ,eln l" A
move , ... u tT, !made immediately afterward and bv
entai snooting would not be believed. eomnanv ta withdraw some of its cars.
hearing is - to be held at the Addison
Ho then decided to go to his father' Mr 'Tenney stated that his purpose in hou8e in Middlebury, beginning at 10 a.
house, but changrtf his mind, for fear.Lui,jn t- a i,00,i . nMrm tho m It is proposed to have the headquar-
11. .1 1 . A 1 . II M J .miifi " " li . 11.. iri l 11.1 11.
mat nis lamer wouia oecome mixeu up I co-operation of the council in a move- ler" UI 1,10 """pany in jiiuuieoury. me
in the affair. "s only thought then ment to forestall the necessity of turn- 8eve" ' subscribers are Charles 11. Thorn p-
ing the road over to a receiver.
jreson, Benjamin A. Sumner, Dean K. Lillie
THREE NEGLIGENCE SUITS.
Turks Have Slain 15,000 and Wounded
20,000 Besides Wresting Great Tract
of Land from the British Forces.
Berlin, Jan. 27.The Cologne Volks
7.eitung publishes a dispatch from Cairo,
stating that the British in southern
lyn, H. B. Shaw and B. N. Clark were
appointed a committee to make ar
rangements and provide entertainment
for the general council of the general
society, which will meet in this city in
May and at which there will be repre
Were Brought Against Rutland Railroad
in Single Day.
Rutland, Jan. 27. Three negligence
suits, in all of which the Rutland rail
road is named as defendant and in which
damages of 920,000 are sought, were
filed in Rutland county court yester
day. The biggest ease is that of Mrs Evelyn
X. Lamonntain, administratrix of
(Jeorge Lamountuin, in which the plain
went on to state that the company failed
to pay the interest on its bonds last No
vember, that the bondholders, while hav
ing the right to ask the courts for a re
ceiver Feb. 1, or 00 days after the com
pany s failure to pay its interest obuga
tions, had consented to postpone action
of this sort un
and II. J. M. Jone, all of Montpelier,
Alexander Gordon of Barre and Irank
II. Stuart and Albert T. Stuart, both of
Newton, Mass..
The purposes of the proposed corpora
tion are set forth in the following words
of their petition
as to escape and he made his way by
ight to East Bnrnet, where for two
days he concealed himself in a barn near
the home of an uncle. During that time
he had nothing to 'eat and drank water
from the trough. On Tuesday night aft
er the shooting he met his brother while
the latter was after the cows and sent
word bv him to the authorities.
The prosecution was unable to shake sjl0Wn tjlttj a
HIS Story, l.si.n il.n oiunt
Drs. W. B.' Fitch and W? fi. Ricker divert a more satisfactory portion of the Pn t,,e MidJlcbury rivvr nd its branches;
were put on the stand by the defense. I rm.nmf a in th inrost ,,nt Vr. and tributaries in the towns of Alnliile-
niglitfall most of the retailers expected
to be on their way home. -
Oflieers elected for 1916 at the b.isi
ness meeting yesterday afternoon ares
President, Thomas J. Adam of Wood
stock; secretary, E. W. Bailey of Man
chester, X. H.: treasurer, J. E. McXich
ols of White River Junction. A rwolu-
tion was adopted in which the Manufac-
; ' 1 T if it ca . W "I- To acquire bv purchase, lease or V" a" , ' ? , AWnu,BC
dfanw & the service w U otherwise, and to develop, use and im- ,lr'" t' J' "e was warm-
change in the service win f . DOweriJ ly thanked for its hospitality. A sizea-
erat.ng cost ani thereby P w rifcMa P"w.e" ble sum of money was donated to tho
i. .1 i:..4.... : . i .. e A.l.i:
8 COT1- I U XLIJILMII lit IUU CUU11LJI VI ilUUI
recciiif.il tn tlie inferest Hecoiint
Dr. Fitch contradicted the testimony of hvnnev nmnhai!l the eomnanv',
Dr. C. F. Wliitncy in regard to wounds UPnt ion that it doesn't hold anv of the 8n. "nd tatc of Vermont, for the pur
found on Brown's face and head, which bonds and that it will stand to lcUe some- P8e of generating electrical energy for
Whitney claime.l were not caused by thin!, iik(. siBfi.noo if a receivershiD is to power, heat, and light.
falling. Dr. Fitch iclaimed that belh. rantml "2. To construct, maintain, operate
brushed dirt from the wounds and that Members" of the council subscribed toan' U8e dams, storage basins, flumes,
in his opinion it,a not only possible i,B hoi i.f that n m-roaa in rnceints pipe, power plants, hydraulie works, and
V. . . I .11. .1. . .11 i .v. .. I 1 .1 ll :. a i . .
mil. riy iuimuii- innk an ui inn i Hs l r fegSillillg the good will of the travcI-BU s"'y' vquipmenL nu nppurio-
were received by Brown when he plunged mg public, is to lie sought rather than a nances for generating electrical energy
headlong onto the concrete sidewalk aft-,0 i,,rv, i, nmrniinir ,.ni, for power, heat, and light in the towns
A Kr.i..,. .k.l I ft "... I t f:.i it.i..n . . i r:.... :.. :j a .1.1:
can be reduced at the expense of the 1"'UU,J ipwu m sum a
T .Ll. 11. JS t .1. I "... . ... 1
in minimi inn nuiir cniieu Ariunr gorvice Alnch that. Ua inr put hwtorv w couiuj. .
Hooderl and Arthirr Lilierty to show that WH reronnted in a ireneral effort to dc- "3. To construct, operate, and main
Brown was lying on his back instead of v;,, ulnn ilmt will wnrlr in h ailmn. tain auxiliary steam plant and stations
on his face, as contended by the defense, tajjft 0f tne eompanv, altieit restore the tr generating and dmtrubting electrical
and that the wounds on his face could Sl.rvice to its former" level. Messrs. Ten- energy for power, heat arid mechanical
not, therefore, have been all caused by nr TarmW m1 Pnrrtr aimniaA in purposes in Barre Town or Barre City,
1 : l t l j. - . -" r- : - . .i
iiuii;iii t ins iarc- 4.jr xiivhiib III uein
sentatives from all parts of the United j tiff seeks to recover $10,000. It is a
States. The exact .date for the council
Arabia are in a dangerous position as the has not yet been set and will be fixed
result of fierce attacks by Arabs and by tho general council.
Turks. It ia stated that the British cas- J",he Pw'k Gardner Brewer and
nooeri ioiic were . appoiniea a eom-
ualties up to Dec. 30 amount to 15,000
mittee to arrange for the Annual meet-
killed and 20,000 wounded, lhe number jng to be held at the rooms of the Ver-
of British troops now 'at Aden is given mont society in February.
as 20,000.
NATIVE OF EAST MONTPELIER.
I Mrs. Manila Morse Died in Duxbury
Funeral on Friday.
Waterbury, Jan. 27. At her home in
Duxbury, where recently she had been
keeping house for her son, Lewis "A.
Morse, Mrs.' Manila Morse, widow of
Liberias Morse, djed yesterday after
noon at 2:15 o'clock, alter a short ill
ness with . pneumonia following the
grippe. Marilla Andrews was born in
East Montpelier, the daughter of Cul
ver and Xancy (liaseltine) Andrews and
would have been 78 the fifth of next
month. On March 23. 1800. sli wn
M. Lonquet, French Socialist Deputy, married in Berlin to Mr. Morse and has
Quoting from Volkszeitung, the Over
seas agency says a wounded British ma
jor declared that at the beginning of the
war the British were in possession of
250,000 square kilometres in southern
and southwestern Arabia, all of which
has been lost. All the Arab chiefs have
joined the Turks and are now using suc
cessfully against the British the arms
wliich were supplied by them.
SAYS FRENCH LOSSES
TOTAL 2,500,000
Says That 800,000 French Soldiers
Have Been Killed Thus
Fr-
Bristol, England, Jan. 27. M. Lonquet
the French Socialist deputy, who ad
dressed the labor conference here to-day,
on being questioned regarding French
losses, said that 800,000 soldiers had been
killed, 1.400.000 wounded and 300.000 had
been taken prisoners.
AUSTRIAN RULER
CROWING WORSE
It is Reported in Vatican Circles in
Rome that Emperor Francis Joseph
Has Been Failing Rapidly.
Rmne. via London. Jan. 27. It ia re
ported in Vatican circle that the con
dition of F.nieror Francis Joseph of
Austria, who has been ill for several
days, ia rapidly growing worse.
spent most of her life since then in Dux
bury. Her husband died several years
ago. She is survived by her son, Lewis
A. Morse, of Duxbury, and two grand
children, Frank Morse and Miss, Annie
Morse; also a sister in West Berlin,
Mrs. Marinda Robinson; and two nieces.
Miss Ada Robinson of West Berlin and
Mrs. C. E. Lyon of Lvnu, Mass.
The funeral will be," held at the l'hil
li schoolhouse in Duxbury Friday aft
ernoon at 2 o'clock, with burial in the
cemetery in that community.
leired that Mr. Lamountuin was kille
by the switch engine of the Rutland
road while shovelling snow on the Tern
pie crossing.
The second case is brought by Louise
Johnson, as administratrix of " the ea
tat;e of Hildur P. Johnson, in wliich the
plaintiff seeke to recover $5,000. In
deceased was . a child and . was killed
while crossing the trucks at the Tempi
crossing on September 29. In both these
allegations it is set up that the com
pany allows cars to be left on the sid
ings it this point, obstructing the tracks
both ways; that it maintains no gate
man,, tlagman or watchman tor warning
the people in spite of the fact that, the
crossing is within the city and is used
every hour of the day.
The third suit is that of Charles II.
Spufford of Xorth Clarendon, adminis
trator of the estate of Henry W. V il
cox, acainst the railroad. It is claimed
Mr. Wilcox was killed by a train Jan,
12, 1915, at the South Main street cross
ing.
DIED OF THE GRIPPE.
ADVISED TO TAKE COVER.
Whea Zeppelin Raids on London are
Being Made.
Ixmdon. Jan. 27. A poli-e warninjf
i-sued hint night indicate the aulhnri
t ir" exrct a speedy resumption of Zep
pelin raida on London and that the dan
ger to liih tb populace will be ex-j--1
oil such orcacHm is greater than
erer. The warning reads:
"The tincrea in offensive protection
fm ev:ie ainra;i recently pro-
in ti.e nrtrprlitai
it more nerT that
ti occanon of air rai3 take cover, airraduaU-a
r i'iirj trnnj tasitrz Irar- xrhooia
to
meets
FIVE CAMPS IN PLATTSBURG.
For Military Training During the Com
ing Summer.
Xew York. Jan. 27. Plana for the
military training ramps at l'lMttburg.
X. V., ami Port (hilethrope, Ja., next
summer, were announced yesterday bv
the deMtrtm.-nt of the KasU According
to those in charge, arrangements have
already bi-en made to accommodate a
minimum attendant of lO.isst. Ma ior
w. n.rai ixtmnri vtotxl, lT. S. A., it was
aid. confidently experts the number will
be twice that.
Present plans call for five cann-a at
Plattsburg and four at Fort tVlcthr.ine.
The riattslHinr campa will W .livi.icl
as follows: Kirt camp, senior division.
June 5-July 2; n-cond ramn. inn Kir di
vision. July 5-Autnist ; third tamp: se
nior division. Jtilyl2-Angiit K; fourth
ump. senior divii-n. August Ill-September
Mober .".
The wamr division comprise gradu
ate tf college and unheritH- and
other citiwn between tie ag.-s ( 25
and 45 years, h hare mnifd an
district annkea rinnalcnt eIii-ati'n.
the put'lc on) The iunior djii..ns (omnriw nn.lrr.
In cm .ejj,, npivcr-ti' and
lw Kae re a era ie ei:n-i
Mrs. Martha King of Plainfield Was 111
But Short Time.
Plainfield, Jan. 27. Mrs. Martha
(Chapman) King died Tuesday evening
at the home of her son, (ieorge King, aft
er a very short illness with grippe. The
funeral will be held Friday at 1:30 at
her home, Rev. A. W. Hewitt otliciat
ing.
Miss Martha I hapman was born in
Calais, Feb. 2K, 127. and was married
to Arra King in 1H53. Two children
were born to them Etta, who died Dec.
24, 1800, and George, with whom she
made her home. For over 40 years she
had made her home on the farm where
her son now lives. Mr. King died Dee.
24, lHllti. The di-cessed is also survived
by four grandchildren and one great
grandchild.
TRACY RE-ELECTED
a!nt to KTiiof du, ii-i avibs.
President of Vermont Sheriffs' Associa
tion at Burlington.
Burlington, dan. 27. Th first annual
meeting of the Vermont Sheriffs' asso
ciation oj-eneil yesterday in the New
Sherwood hotel. At the business meet-
inn the follow ing officers were elected:
onstration, too, it waa attempted to
prove that Attorney Simnnds' demon
stration of the shooting of Brown was
not according to Hatch's own testimony.
The case will probably go to the jury
sometime to-morrow.-
the company neglected its roadbed and
track maintenance" in order to keep its
interest accounts even. " '
Mr. Tenney briefly outlined the fol
lowing possible solution of the road's
predicament: Withdrawal of a ear after
May 1 in those hours of the day and
night when traffic is lightest; restoration
of the 10-cent fare from May 1 to Nov.
For Equipment for the State Farm for 1; 12Vi eent fare from Xov. 1 to May 1.
It was also stated that the summer serv
ice would consist of three cars whenever
show that when the former schedule was 'M be county of Washington, in the
in use and the 10-cent fare was in vosrue state of Vermont.
APPROPRIATED $3,500. -
Feeble-minded.
The state budget commission, which
was created by the last legislature, held
its first meeting v-esterday afternoon
at the State House "in Montpelier, and
discussed the work which is necessary
under the provisions of- No. 2tl of the
traffic would warrant and that the com
pany would probably make use of the
withdrawal privilege only in the winter,
when the operating cost is much higher.
ithdrawal of the ashmgton street
and South Main street ears waa also dis
irtf " .I?1": n 1? wpt'01! ' enssed, it being suggested that the main
Redfleld Proctor, all of the members o( ,:. ' .w i :., .,i,
the commission were in attendance, the t,rmins. Jitnevg 0Bme in for t,,eir
commission being composed of the fol
lowing: Gov. C. W. Gates, State Treas
urer Scott, Auditor H. F. Graham, Pur
chasing Agent D. T. Hanley, Stanley C.
iliton, chairman of House committee
of ways and means, Senator Caly of
the finance committee of the Senate anil
Redfield Proctor, chairman of the House
committee appropriations. The law
went into effect July 1, 1915, and the
members of the commission went ver
the receipts and expehdfturea for the
six months period ending Jan. . I, 1016.
It is the duty of the commission to
consider all appropriations and two spe
cifle matter came to the attention of
the commission yesterday. When the
egislature appropriated 15,000 for the
purchase of a farm for the feeble mind
ed, the statute Was ao worded that no
provision was made for equipment. The
farm cost but $N.0O0 and the commis
sion yesterday authorized the expendi-1 fore May 1
ure of ?..500 for equipment. The com
mission also deemed to allow the in
dust rial school at Vergennes $2.0tiO.
The real work of the commission will
be to decide upon the amounts needed
by the various departments and insti
tut ions and make recommendations to
the legislature. The commission is re
uired to meet at least every six month
ad may meet more often if necessary
share of consideration and the feeling
seemed to prevail among the councillors
that a return to a fare of 10 cents be
tween Barre and Montpelier would re
sult in the elimination of many of the
little autos. The officials, at least it
may be said of Mr. Tenney, took the op
timistic view that the soaring price of
gasoline may keep the jitneys out of
commission in 1916. .
If anything, the council seemed just a
little bit more unbending tlian on pre
vious occasions when the company has
attempted to puncture the franchise,
The members seemed to feel that a main
line car in the hours when traffic is al
ways light can well lie spared if the 10-
cent fare is restored. Mr. Tenney asked
the council to think over the suggestions
made at the hearing and asked that he
be given an opportunity to meet the city
fathers at another hearing sometime be-
"4. To construct, operate and maintain
transmission lines, poles lines wires,
rights of way, distributing stations, and
circuits, and all necessary equipment
power, and mechanical purposes in the
towns of Middlebury, Ripton, Lincoln,
Hancock, and Granville in the county
of Addison, and Warren, Roxbury, Korth
iield, Berlin, Barre Town, Barre City,
and Montpelier in the county of Wash
ington, and Williamstown in the coun
ty of Orange; and also for selling elec
trical energy for light purposes in said
towns of Kipton, Lincoln, Hancock, War
ren, Roxbury, Berlin and the village of
F.ast Middlebury, in the town of Middle- i
bury, all in the state of ermont.
"With its principal office at Middle
bury, in the county of Addison, and
state of Vermont.
"With a capital stock of one million
dollars, divided into ten thousand shares
of one hundred dollars each."
MONTPELIER CITY COUNCIL
Mrs.
Considered Routine Matters at Meeting
Last Evening.
Routine matters which had accumulat
ed during the last two weeks were quick
ly disposed of last eveninff by the Mont
iielier citv council at the last regular
meeting of the fiscal year of the city. A
board of civil authority meeting; was
authorired to be held Saturday evening
Nichols' Body Brought I at 7:30 o clock.
I lie enmmmee 10 w noni was relcrreil
BURIAL IN BARRE CEMETERV.
Hannah
Here from Williamstown.
Funeral services for Mra. Hannah
(Rout well i Nichols wife of the late Pe
ter Nichols, ar-i a native of South Barre.
hose death at the aye of 95 v.-ara Sat
urday earning removed one of the old-
I'resident. Sheriff Frank H. Tracy of icst residenta of W,iliamtow n, were
Montpelier; vice-president. Sheriff K. .
'Fish of Wet Rutland; aecrrtsiry and
treasurer. Sheriff Richard IVattie of
Maid-tone. There was an attendance of
lf5 sheriffs an I deputies yesterday.
At the n-s-.ii in lat eveni:iif Sheriff ll:n
A. Smith of Addison spoke on "Attach
ment of Personal Property ; Slu-riff
latn- H. Alien of Burlington on. "Sale
of Heal Ktte on Kserution": S'.icr.ff
I'-atte on. "V -nim:tm"nt on Warrant";
"-iiertff K. Ki-ii on, "Arret on tid
Prowa."
held at the borne of her son. Frank If.
XichoU. with whom she had rei.lil for
many years. Wednesday afternoon at
1 :3t o'clock. Bev. John Irons. pitor
of the Williamtnwn ("ongrejr-.itional
cluirrh. was the off latinjr l.-r-Tnisn and
the bearers' were four anna of the de
ceased: Frank H. Nichols. John M.
NiilioU of South Barr. tliarle Niebol
of Kat Hampton. Ma., and Henry
Sif'ioU of Terry . Ia. TH remains were
l.noigM in thia -ty for ir ferment in
l.lmwowd meteir.
was
the mattee of straightening the wall
bounding on one side of the North
Branch river between the Rialto and
l-anedon street bridge reiHirted unani
mously in favor of allowing the chancel
to be made. It waa voted to rewind the
resolution of .Ian. 12 as to the holding
of a hearing on the matter and the re
quest of !cti H. B:hy to he allowed to
have the wan Tratjitenci was granted.
the chance to ho ma le according to a
plan submitted by F.ngineer Reel, who
in'ivte the conditions and a;d.-d the
committee in their investigation. It is
understood t!t the appli-ation of Mr.
Biiby is prel.nonsry to t.'.e con-f nfction
of a tVatre on tlm and Ijine !.a afreets.
Al lerman G!5c!cr referred t at le
ad intT tewel Manager R. I.. M, Intrre
relative to t'.ss comjlaint ma !e It A-
L. A, A. 0. H, INSTALLATION
Was Held Last Evening, with Supper
and Program Gfven..
At the meeting of the Ladies' Aux
iliary, A. O. IL, held last evening the
following officers were- installed : Presi
dent, Mrs. L. J. Good; vice-president,
Mrs. (lara Riley; financial secretary,
Mrs. Elisabeth- Brown; recording secre
tary. Miss Rose Good; treasurer, Mrs.
Margaret Hastings; mistress-at-arms,
Mrs. Catherine Grogan; sentinel, Mrs.
John OKeefe. J lie othecrs were in
stalled by Miss McGovern of Montpelier
county president, and the juveniles were
installed by Mrs. Margaret Hastings
county vice-president. .
A bounteous supper was served and
the following entertainment was given:
Songs, Gladys Grogan and Helen Sker
ritt; recitation, Susie Jordan; song
Misses Ix-Page; chorus, juveniles of di
vision. Key. M. McKenna spoke fit
tingly, and Mr. Rose Granger sjske on
the welfare of the order.
AUTO TIPPED OVER
But Three Motorists Were Able to Ex
tricate Themselves.
Winter moforing nearly claimed a
brace of victims on the quarry road lute
yesterday afternoon when a car owned
and operated by D. M. Barclay, and also
occupied by Allen Reid of Cleveland. O..
and James R, Mackay tkidilcj an 1
turned turtle as the party was preced
ing through the woo-1 soutlieast w an!
from Wi!on cemetery. The car left the
highway at a point midway of the visult
and turned over in a hole in tlie road-
tile. It was with difficulty that the
three men were alle to extricate them
ehe and help lad to be summoned be
fore the car could be r:g!.tel. None of
the occupant lad more than a few
rst he to show- for their eipcrie-nre
an1 tlie ,-ar was ciamsrea tint l.ttle.
koncd n-ot-Ti t ht tliat notT
to ;rmtvi! nr er fraeg't wit'i
joore rrd t5in at te i reaert time.
membership fund of the National As
sociation of Retail Monument Dealers.
The twin-state dealers reaffirmed their
belief that organization aids in the pro
motion of a demand for artistic, memo
rials and the consequent beautifying of
cemetery grounds and mausoleums.
The midsummer meeting of the as
sociation will be held at The Weirs, N,
II., late in July.
At Clan ordon hall last evening re
tailers and manufacturers with their
guests mingled in a complimentary ban
quet given by the Barre Granite Man
ufacturers' association. It was another
indication of the desire on the part of
the manufacturers to give their gucsti
a welcome that will not be forgotten.
A committee consisting of II. P. Hin
man, Alexander A. Milne, W. P. Scott
and Armando Complli had charge of the
arrangements.
"A "branchetto Italiano," served by
a number of young women of the Ital
ian colony was an innovation m the way
of entertainment that proved instantly
popular-with the visitors and the home
town folks alike. At 7 o'clock nearly
150 people sat down to a tempting ar
ray of Italian culinary specialties. Here
is how the menu looked as printed in
an attractive brocure with a replica of
the state seal in Barre granite for a
cover piece: .
Ravanelli; olives, celery and anti-
pasti; soup, pastina al brodo; gealloppe
di vitello alia Bolognese, verdura alia
ilrasiliana; ravioli alia Genovese; ihhzo
garofanato con presciutto; roast, polli,
in Salata Romana; formaggi, gruviera,
gorgonzola; dessert, frutta, noci, paste
dolci, ca.fe noir." ,
There was 'no speechmaking. George
Ford of Granite, Marble & Bronze, who
was there with his pad and pencil, ex
plained the omission by saving that
the mothers of most of the men who are
usually depended upon to weary " a
chuck-ful audience of banqueters never
raised their boys to be speeqhmakers.
And so it was that speaking was lim
ited to a brief address by S. Hollister
Jackson, who gave his hearers a talk
on some of the fundamentals in the
Barre granite industry. P. E. McLaugh
lin of the Monumental Retailer warmed
up between courses by dancing some of
the old-time favorite jigs of his sires.'
Snappy orchestra accompaniments con
tributed not a little to Mr. McLaugh
lin's quk-kstepping. After the ban
quet there was dancing and it was some
few moments after midnight before the
merrymaking ceased.
STATE GIVEN A HEARING.
On Proposed Raise of Insurance Rates on
State Property.
Representatives of the New England
Insurance exchange. Insurance Commis.
sioners Guy W. liailev and Walter K.
Scott and I S. Hay of Bellows Falls
held a conference this forenoon at the
State House to consider the increase in
rate on state proiiertv. Companies
huh carry insurance on state propertv
recently voted to increase the rates' and
the conference is held for the purpose of
allowing state officers to apjs-ar.
IS SURELY AT LIBERTY.
Adelard Dupont Has Left the Vermont
State Prison.
Windsor. Jan. 27. Adelard Dupont, a
coiniit at the ermont slate orison.
who was supHwed to hae escaped last
Saturday, sosl-'d the wa!l of the prison
early yeter.iay morning by a rope lad
der which he left on the wall.
He lad Keen in hiding upon the prit
n pr- mi-e for four dais an I n j'.t
t-fig ' Han.e to rsiske a gctawat.
Prison i "n itl are now- wnn lcrmg wh re
he o'.t t .e I til ant dri-k for this pe-
rio-l arl wLcre le was hidien.
