-
)
I
r1
I
tin Ji4 W'iJf
-
Western (SaroM'nev. pambcraH
V0LXX1I1, NO 3
HENDERSON VILLE, N. C. THURSDAY JANUARY 27? .1916
1.00- PER YEAR, IN ADVANCER
TUBERCULOSIS SA
PROPOSED FOR I
A
The New
York plan is Suggested by Which the Officials
Could Soon Make the Institution a Self
-Paying Proposition
ha Henderson have
a county
tuberculosis sanatorium"? -. . -
It looks as if the -county will Have to
lace this question before long. Senti-
ment is unquesuonauiy .grv.m5
that something be done 10 put j
the matter squarely up to thev tax
payers. The idea has long since tak
4u root here, and is just beginning to
i,,..- itself in a live way...' J
or the various methods for hand-
liug advanced cases of tuberculosis.it
appears now as if the county sanato-
the needs of the situation. It is noi
possible for all cases to be sent to the
Siate sanatorium, both for financial
reasons and because of the lack' of
room there. . But as the question o
securing treatment elsewhere "than in
the home Is -one that is ever present,
fae matter must claim the closest at
tention of the public; until some pra
ter disposition is made of it. "
It is not fair to the public, to the
patients; or to the patient's family that
an advanced case should be permitted
to remain uncared-for outside of some
fied to pass strict laws- for the isola
tion of white plague victims, or to
shun them in daily life. Neither meth
od can ever be 'effective, hence the
grow th of the sanatorium, idea.
New York state was the first to put
the county sanatorium plan into prac
tise. Five .years ago a beginning was
mc.de, and it has proved. so successful
fui that 77 per cent of the population
ot the state ' live in counties having
sanatorium's .fpr adyanced..cases. s-.Tho
""plar. was opposed there, just" as it wiH
be elsewhere ...when started, but ' re -suits
have proved that It. is. the best
and cheapest method of disposing of
dangerous ' cases. .
There are two plans followed in se
curing these institutions. Ore is that
carried out in New York, and other
states: the .legislature authorizes the
county supervisors to submit the ques
tion to the voters when a sufficient
nvmber of names have been secured
bj- petition. This method has proven
by far the best yet tried, and is . be
ing adopted over the entire country.
There is another way; which was at
hist tried , in New York, but was dis
carded for various reasons : the citi
zens of a county drew up a petition
and submitted it to the county com .
missioners asking them to erect and
maintain a sanatorium. The refer
endum method has advantages far too
evident to need pointing out.
In North Carolina the county sana
torium' method of handling advanced
cases is being agitated, and is meet-
ing with favorable results; - The pio
neer county "was New, Hanover, where
the whole this has long since been
pronounced a success. Forsyth coun
ty has recently provided for a county
sanatorium. Davidson county is aboui
to take the same step. Durham, coun
ty has submitted . to the county com
missioners a petition asking for a san
atorium for advanced cases. Other
counties are considering the question,
nu expect to. take some action this'
year. V
When called to his attention, Dr. W;
H. Kirk, well-known because of hip
efiorts to obtain modern and humane
treatment for tuberculous persons,
had the following to say about a coun
ty sanatorium.: -
"I wish it were possible to impress
the people of this. county with the ne
cessity foctaking the lead in-this sec
tion in the matter of establishing a
county sanatorium for the careof ad-
need cases of tuberculosis. Whiie'i
v c. haveNless tuberculosis than some
the larger and less" favorably situat-t-d
counties of the State, still there is
t !ays present a sufficient number of
advanced cases to make the question
a live one. I would, not advocate the
segregation of all cases, only those
v- ho are necessarily a menace to others
ahout them theadvanced cases. They
should be intelligently "and kindly pro
vided for at least in part at the" pub-
He expense. I do not believe that thej
post would by any means outweigh the
benefits, and as an Investment I don't
s o how the people could better spend
their money. A sanatorium Is not onl?
a hospital for the reception of the sick
it is also an "educational centre,
from which the best methods of sana
tafon and hygiene are carried into the
homes of the very people we are after
reaching. I believe that we would sea
a falling off of the death rate from this,
tease ' almost immediately,' if thi
P'an were put into execution. I hope
the people will give" it the proper con
sideration." - ' V.X- -C
In New York state" it was found af-
ter trial that the plan of establishing
;r dilution, wnere every care auu pic- ago inomas 31. siagie ana ms wue .ua- ---"s f DUv uu.i.ui wuai pu
crution is used to make the patient ! nated to the Presbyterian board 535 I day are adopted. ; ;
rfnrtable and at the same time acres of the old Jacob Siler farm neur 1 believe it the city would neip, tut ? J AuliSON TO
pi event the spread of this disease Franklin for the establishment of u merchants" along our chief busines?j-.
HvrfclUlUie Luc yuuui. uos xjv.xi j T;iim sciiooi ior iiuiueie&s uuts. ui-
(Continued on Page 5.)
HAIM
IS :
I CO!
iEDERSOr
-
-!-
ANOTHER PRESBYTERIAN
ORPHANAGE OPENS ITS DOORS.
AsheTille presbytery's Home for Chil-
dfen Near Maxwell Farm School.
On December, 30, 1915, the MaxweU
orphanage located near the Maxwell
Farm school, Franklin, N. C, opened
its doors to small boys who have no
home and.no opportunites for reeeiv
ing an education. The orphanage is
conducted by the Presbyterian board of
erTQcation of Asheville presbytery and
is designed to relieve the congestion :tt
the Balfour school, which was found
ed by the board i2 years ago near
Hendersonville. Tn boys have -already
found a home at the Maxwell
institution and others will be taken in
from time to time. The Maxwell Farm'
school has been in -successful opera
tion for four or five years; the build
ings for the school and orphanage are
or concrete with metal roofs and are
admirably adapted for the purposes in
view by the board.
It will be remembered that 5 years
phans are taught here to be self-reliant,
industrious, and -at the age of
fourteen they are found to be seK
supporting in the matter of lood ai;d
clothes. - The management . of tht
school .believes that the orphanage and
school" snould be small . enough to
maintain home "fe and develop' the in
dividuality of the boys who here find
a haven from the vicissitudes of :t
J. homeless existence;. . . - c ,
The-I training -at rBalfour- and &t-ha4
Maxwell school includes learning the
trade of concrete block-making, the
boys mend their own shoes, they pro
duce all the provisions used at the
school, cattle are raised and carpen
try and painting are taught. Thriit
and the value of money are'inculcu
lated at the impressionable age, arid
it Instated that all the-orphans have
savings bank accounts. The benefac
tors are of the belief that a farm is an
ideal place to train future citizens ot
a state; that such a curriculum as
outlined here briefly gives a good foun
dation in health and morals. J
Where a student shows aptitude for
academic studies or a taste for any of
the sciences he is encouraged and a
place is found for him in some college
or university. The girls are taught
the fundamentals in home keeping
During the past twelve years the board
has cared for 175 orphan children.
A feature of the system at Maxwell
orphanage . is - that carrying out the
home life idea" girls are associated
vith boys until the orphans are about
12 years old, so that the boys may
have the influence of feminine envir
onment. Reaching that age the giris
are taken to the Morrison school for
girls four miles northwest of Franklin
and the larger boys are. transferred to
the farm school near ' the orphanage-.
In this way a stream of homeless chil
dren is constantly flowing in from tha
world to these three schools, receiving
instruction and equipment for life and
going out to take their 'places as use
ful members of society. Many of them
are " today teachers, nurses, farmers,
mechanics. . Instead of leaving their
county where they were born they, :'u
most cases .remain to add their part to
the enrichment of community life.
A small volume coujd be written on
the activities of fhe Presbyterian
board in school work in the moun
tains of western North Carolina. : Tak
ing little' part in the discussions, as to
whether the 'mountain children .want
an education" the leaders in this movf3-
ment have quietly gone to work to
offer homes and schools to a class of
children that, for one reason- or an
other." are often overlooked byUhe
many agencies that are'engaged in the
field of social service. An account of
this work when it is written in com
plete form would include a description
of what Rev. Dr. R. P. Smith has done
as superintendent for the board of ed
ucation. u , " '
: For a good part . of - his life Rev.
Dr. Smith has traveled the mountain
counties studying the 'conditions, find
ing suitable locations ; for schools and
interesting peopteof means in what he
! has made his life work: . His friends
say that he ought to write a book on
tte western Carolina" mountains and
the people. Gazette-N;ews, i
;;"' i Watch the Stretchers. .-
A Hartford millionaire wedded his
hospital nurse. It Is getting so now
that the sure chance for, the girl who
wants to marry for money is to be
- .... i nroH fn-r rM monev-
i come a nurbe wiu,ntt- (
bags to float In on a stretcher.Hous
ton Post. ; -' -
MERCHANTS
ELECT OFFICER!
An .' enthusiastic meeting of about
twenty merchants was held Wednes
day night In the rest "room on tht
second floor of Hunter's building, when
the Merchants- Association was re-or-.
ganized. . . ' ,7
Charlie Moore was elected president,
F. Z. Morris, vice president, .A. Homer
Hawkins, treasurer . and W. Marshall
Bridges secretary. A committee wa3
appointed to assist the secretary in
securing new members.
iris the purpose of tire" association
to issue a rating book of .the credit of
all -patrons of local merchants within
the next few .weeks. -
The association has already accom
plfshed some effective" work during
the past year. - ... '
SATURDAY NIGHT CLEANING OF
MAIN STREET IS SUGGESTED.
Prominent Merchant Thinks it Would
Ilelp the Locks of Tilings to Use
Sweeper at End of Each Week. .
Hftve you ever noticeG the accumu
lation of dirt on our Main street ever ;rv
Sunday?" asked Sylvester Maxwell, of,
the firm of Maxwell's Cash Grocery,
I "Never mind how well the street" i
cleaned and swept up during the week
so much business is done in town tm
RotnrilQiT' tliQ the Alrt crathoro luat us 5
f nothing had 'been done. It is impos
(ble to keep Main street in good Suu
day dress unless some measures for
pToonino it nn orvm a timo Info rr Qofn r .
wash off the side walks the. last thing
before closing on Saturday, nights
leaving conditions in good; shape for
Sunday. .There are lots of old papery
pieces of wood and other trash, to b
seen all over the sidewalk and in the
rcaaway ac me ena oi every wees, auu j termer jpampaign manager of Con
it donTt .look good, to me. Sunday is. a e'ressman. J, Britt, -will' represent
favorite day for motorists to come, i : rth Carolina at the NatinnaT Rnnhl
oerfrom neighboring points land take
m tne town, and tney - would carr
&Kayi a,Jot; betterlinissioafJlfain
street was clean and tidy looking;
"Suppose you pass the suggestion on
for what it is worth, in the Hustler.
May be something will comeof it."
A CALL FOR CLOTHING.
If the people, of Hendersonville and
vicinity- who have any clothing they
can donate to charitable purposes, will
ccilect It and send, on Friday or Sat-
urday of this .week, to the residence of
Mr. R. P. Freeze on Washington street;
they will be helping in a very appre-'j
ciable way the work of the Associated
Charities as ' well-as the worthy poor
whose needs will thus ultimately - bt
supplied. ; .
Any kind of wearing apparel . out
grown or cast aside, shoes, bed cloth
ing, in fact anything that either a man
woman or child can use, will be of ser
vice; provided of course that it is in a
sanitary condition. Any one having
articles to give and yet no way to send
them will please notify Mrs. Freeze on
the above named days. Do not feel
that any gift is too small or unworthy, i
a v-exy smaii ining sometimes relieves
a very acute need. ,
Signed ASSOCIATED CHARITIES.
THE EMPTY nANDS OF THE vOLD.
My heart has often gone out to aged
people who, after lives of industry,
find themselves in their latter years
condemned to idleness because there
is nothing for them "to do. It Is a
thoroughly mistaken kindness to take
all work out of their hands. Beautiful
as it may be in poetry for grandfather
and grandmother : to sit with folded
hands in the gloaming awaiting1 the
summons home, these same people
would generally be tenfold happier tif
they had some regular duties, not too
strenuous - in character, to engage
their minds and occupy their energies.
Those who come down to the boundary
of the years in fullest content a joy to
themselves and . a comfort , to their
loved ones are thpse whose work
slackens but does not cease, until the
end. They fulfill the description of
the psamlist. "They, shall still bring
forth fruit in old age." ; ,v
There are tasks In every household
that "the aged, When in fair health may
perform effectively; and they . should
be allowed to perform'. them. It is t
u uci imaiiuw luciii lo su, iu LiLt; vuiui-
ney corner in peevish discontent vith
themselv es and their surroundings
when, by . some . useful . work, they
might find the days filled with inter
est, and the , nights - with ref reshing
sleep. To clean and fill the lamps;, to
mend , the stockings to, arrange the
flowers for the table, may not: seem
a large daily schedule for a vigorous
housekeeper, but . to turn - these tasks
over to .grand-mother may be a means
of keeping her both happy and healthy;
Encourage grandfather to feel himself
still a mahof affairs. . If he cannot
jun the automobile - he can run the ,
electric vacuum-cleaner to the queen's
taste. If he cannot mow the lawn he
1 can superintend the boy who does. an.-t 1
can nimseii cup around the edges Let
u.V not take all the wortc'from hands
that must soon, at.best lay it all down.
Nc human Tife wants x to rust out.
and School. .' n -
-
ffFP
L k i . I n
pver 526 registrations to The Ken-,
tucky Home hotel since January 1 is
the record so far.
There is perhaps
nd hoter with a bQtyer , reputation, in
Western ;' North .Carolina than The
Ki r.tucky " Home, hotel. .Included in
this- ia'rge um'ber of ' guests were a
number of 'winter- tourists'- passing
U ough enroute for Florida and other
si athera states. 1 - l r - i
V GIFT FP.0M 2m, MALCOLMSON.
1; esent s Library With 10 Yolnmes of
iicjciopettia ef -Commerce and
, ; ; Various Busiirsss Form's, ; ' :
vlr. Geoi: Malcolm'soif has presented
tl T.IViro TV - tXritV n - vnim i.
i "A J a. w ci jf vaiuaum sei.
1 oi reference books n -vnia in wn
form of a : Cyclopedia of Commerr.pl-
AcountaMy..Btaeri,Admin?
iiKJudW aAowTut-" wa,IZ vr,"'1
, ---o -vwiuviu6 auuiuug, uuoiv-
keeping,, commercial law, business
r-anagement, , administrative " and! in
du 1 ial .organization, ' banking adver
tif tug, seltre-g, - office and factory re
cords, cost keeping, systematizing, etc.
It is .desired, that not only the busi
hqss men, but: also T young men 'and
Vi. men who aro fittiner themselves for
itcbusiness', world will-takeadvant-
age-of; these books for-hey contain
tiuch. valuable information and it is
a franged in "such a concise and practi-
leal manner that 11 is no trouble to'find
! .-V. x : - ' . .
are-most
in.
ATTEND NATTOXiT
REPUBLICAN CONTENTION.
j ipeal Business Man ' Will -Re)reSent
' , His 'Party In Chicago ; Prelimi.
Brownlow : Jackson, yicer president
of the ' Citizens Natiohai bankl anJ
M can convention which-convenes June
. :r hicago.7. Mr; Jackson js one of
'c ' 'most- -prdmihrrt epnbllcaiisln
the stata and has been spoken "of sev
eral times' a" sa desirable state chair
man of the executive committee of, his
party. '
The associated- press carried tho
following story in reference to the
ccming convention: v
Preliminary arrangements for the
national convention which opens here
June 7, were discussed her today by
rnemhprc rt tho. Ron'hMiVon
111. U I I I I til a k i
UUI11 IIU1UIL. "
I committee and a start was made inillon dollars for missions and benevo-
the 1916 campaign in the, middle West.
Charles D. Hilles. chairman of thp Re
publican National Committee, speak
ing at a luncheon at, the Hamilton
club,outlined the party campaign
plans arid sharply criticised the Dem
ocratic party and the policies of the
administration. Plans to .increase, the
seating capacity of the hall by nearly
a thousand were approved. Four years
ago, 11,200 seats were arranged.
Various . members dt the sub-committee
on convention arrangements
without" making a positive statement
let it be, .known that there, was a dis
position to go' tb any extreme in the
selection of a harmony candidate pro
vided only that .Colonel Roosevelt
would not be made the nominee. v
MOTHER DIES SUDDENLY.
The4Misses M: D. and Laura Peden
were called to Lanrinburg on Monday
pi -this week on account of the death
of their mother, which occurred some time
in the night before. The end
came suddenly, and was wholly traex-,
pected. ' The sympathy of the entire
community goes out to the bereave!
ones., " '- , , - -
Perhaps you do- not pay an ' income
tax but you are sure to pay an expenditure-tax
on many a purchase if
you fail to study the ads.
Read Our
on Page Two
Five Papers
A Money Value that
You Cannof Afford
to Turn Down
IVUl VIIVl
a Week
Ftf.
iTiziSiRF-FiGiirae
0SED1
Majority of Commissioners are
.
PROP
' Ivlost liverybody Admits vity INeeds -
': , ... - - . vv - .
s 5 MoreWater . - ; ;
BAPTISTS TO PULL FOR A
- IILLJON .NEW MEMBERS.
Radical Project of Definite Flye-Tear
Program for the Denomination; ,
" ; Methods of Advance. - -
: The present winter is revealing sev
eral new and large and, organized pro
jects; by the leading denominational
bodies. While church unity is still
acceptable - as" a goal, yet there ; is no
denying their own' identity r andV effi
ciency. This may be called an era
of intelligent denominationalism.
' -None or .these deziorrunationat. pro
jects is more ambitious or comprehen
sive or definite "than that of the North
ern Baptist Convention, which it calls
its "Five , Year Program.", This was
adopted last year at the Convention in
Los Angeles, but its impact! was not
really felt by the- churches until' the
present winter.; -It . takes months to
getv the f u 11 denominational machinery
t in operation, to quicken the interest
of; the last member of the smallest
church in this . 'widespread. Baptist
body." '. -. ; '': ' ".;; .;;'.;;
4 " The program hasv: furnished the key
note for a multitude of dehominational-
meetings, big and . little, and the signs
are that this -will be increasingly the
case . v , - ' ;
' Baptist sessions of the . Laymen's
Missionary Campaign .meetings - will
have a definite -objective to present to;
the men. ; , V;
'rAs categorically 'outlined; "The. Five
Year 5 Program"; includes: , - xt
'r "1- A million ; additions ! to x our
churches byl baptism. .. '-
"2. A: missionary. force of ;5,000
men and .women in 'America and the
non-ChristianWorld. ; v f ;'-f :l ri;
dowment for the Ministers and, Mis
sionaries Benefit Board.;-
"4. Twenty-five student pastors lh
universities; one thousand Baptise
students in' theological seminaries, fif
teen thousand students in . colleges
and universities and six million dol
lars for additional educational endow
ment and equipment at home and
abroad. ;. . ;' '
"5. An annual income of six mil-
r -' A Ringing Note. -
The genius of one man may be
traced in this project and its litera
ture.. This man is Dr. Shailer Math
ewsdean of Chicago University; pres
ident of the Northern Baptist Conven
tiOii. and president of the Federo'
Council of Churches of , Christ .
Arnerica. Only his pen could hav?
written this ringing prelude to the
program: ' '
"This call of the hour is for a con
structive, cumulative program of Ld
v?nce so large and so compelling a
to arrest attention, unify our forces
and activities,, challenge our men, of
large resources and stir our whole
people with-a splendid enthusiasm for
the Kingdom of God.
"The objective of this program
should be the development of everr
Church Mnto an evangelistic and social
force in its community and a ; result
ant . mighty impact of our denomina
tional life, upon the Nation and the
world." .
' "Tying up" the ' Churches.
A national committee of which Dr.
John M. Moore, 23 East 26 street, New
York, is the secretary, is at work di
recting the prosecution of "The Fjve
Year Program. Already it has been
definitely related to all the boards and
other agencies . of the denpin'tiation,
and the output of literature has been
voluminous and effective. The.: Bap
tists, by the way,; have long shown a
skill in the use of printed matter that
is scarcely matched by any other de
nomination. - - "
. The local congregation is the unit of
all the plans and the first work is to
tie it up closely to the denominatoin.
The old-fashioned individualism of
Baptist Churches is passing along with'
that of the Congregational churches.
Both bodies have Seen steadily work
ing .toward greater 'denominational
centralizations ; - " .. S . "" ;
"The Five. Year, Program" is not a
brilliant generalization.
It works out
fntri si seriea of definite obiectives and
instructions for every individual church
Thp larger coals 'are annortionea 30
that each congregatioifrmay know ; its
share and, have a standard to measure
up to. ; . . v . ' ' '''
The announced goal for co-operating
churches are:" ; .'
1. One new follower of Christ an
nually for every eight members. V
, "2. One ' minister or . missionary,
produced from its membership during
the five-year period. ' v ; ;
'"3. One of its young people in col
lege fprevery one -hundred members
or major fraction . thereof . " -
"4. Gifts :by individuals (In addl-
(Continued on Page 8.)
in Favor of New System-
. . . .
Considerable interest . has been "
aroused in the proposed new water
bond - issue. ' The city commissioners
have been quietly working out the de
railed plans for the new system which
is proposed to supply .Ittie city all the
water. . necessary vfor - many, years . to
come. ' . 'r - . :;'h;v-4' ..:-:- : '
-While it is generally under stoodand
admitted by those in authority 'that
the new system will necessarily raise
the tax rate " a f ew cents oh the one
hundred ; dollars of taxable property,
yet With this , increase the city will
have" a moderate tax in comparison
with other cities of the same size.
-With the new system in operation tho i
city will be in a position to sell con- -siderable
more water and i is esti
mated that the present revenue will be
increased at "least ; thirty per cent, the
first , year, with- new "business;, ; It is
roasonablerto suppose that the present
patrons of water will , under normal v
conditions use an increased supply ; in
the summer. . .. . - ' : j.;'y.- ' -
,-It . will ;be remembered .that three -seasons
ago. a' drv. snell occurred in
this section.;-The city's water" supply ,
became in a precarious condition. . The I
some reason; thought, by many not to
have been the water, a largerriumber t
of summer visitors left the' "city for.
feiir of an epidemic of sickness. .This
proved a heavy . loss to the boarding '
house people, aswellas the-business'
houses. 'A water system! bond; issue
for '$150,000; at Vthat time would, have
ho . doubt :; been carried - by an "Over-
Whelming majority, had. ; it 1 been pro -
posed;'":' '- t r'::ll::
t There are - a very few, citizens -juse
now who have - expressed themselves "
not in favor ' of a . new water :. system
hichould cost ihettyLiij. themei'h
bbrhood! of :$B6,u00V i They, admit that
the city, needs more waierj particular
ly in t the summer ; buttthey are pro-posihg-.-
less, expensive remedies In a
limited supply of water to last the city
for the next five or six years. :
Some, have figured the interest on
the bonds proposed, at' about f 9,000 per
jesiT. Water wTorks bonds are said to
be-ready sellers on the market and it .
is thought that they can be sold for
about 5 1-2 per cent which would make
$8,250 interest. ' 1 . ; , - -
The'; present revenue of the water
system is in the " neighborhood xf
$5,000. This with a new ; system , will
be increased considerably. .. :' i
Whether the city Is tohave a new
system will be left to the people. It
is understood that a majority of the
board of commissioners are in favor
of the issue.; Some of the members
have, been, against any increase of the
water system in the past, but they are
now, for it. .. ;
Until the" official detailed report o
juL-giueer uiiDert u. wmte as made i
would be mere speculative for a citizei
to say exactly what the new propdset
system calls for.
TO FIGHT INCREASE
. IN FREIGHT RATES.
New Commodity Schedule From North
, Carolina to Southeast Objectionable
North Carolina will make a vigorous
fight to have suspended at the earliest
possible moment thelncrease in freight
rs tes - in North Carolina ; which went
into ' effect Sat u rday 7 " Governor i Crai g
in a statement declared thatf he. could
seejao good reason for an: increase of
freight rates at this timen the South,
The; railroads, he. pointed Toutin? his
statement have air been doing a good '
business and cannot in reason ask at'
this time for increases.
The rates seem to: have been "slip
ped over." The . State Corporation
Commission did not get a copy'of them
until about 'Dec. 10, too late to make
Interstate ? Commerce Commission,
however," says its refusal to suspend
the rates does not mean that yit ap-'
proves them and intimates that it will
Investigate the reasonableness of the
new rates.
The new rate schedule affects rates
from practically all points or origin in
this State to all points in Southwestern
territory (including ; Mississippi Val
leyvterrtory). -Commodity tariffs -un-
er which the bulk of the traffic moves
from North r Carolina o the southeast
are not auecteu.
None of the increases apply to rate3
inbound from the west which were the
si-bject of compromise effective June
20; 1914. Still there is enough objec
tion to the new rates to make it cer
tain that North Carolina will make a
strong" fight to have them so amend
ed that North Carolina' shippers will ;
not suffer. . v ;-. " ' ; .
; As to the merchant who thinks that
advertising would not make his store
more prosperous; perhaps he is right.
But it would be wisdom on your part
to walk past that store rather hur
riedly. . - . ;.
