i ' 1 HJ, '' . f, . -" ' " " I '. ' . " . niKniiniiii I., , , , T rml.
- - V
2: Pages
this week well
worth your care,
ful attention. The
!
1 i
ads in the Rview W iltizfehteelv -
this to you. irsupitQ you to raake c?Jpf T '
ads point yotr to the "Road of Bin
Values." Follow (he sign and arrire safely
The Review isread: dpiated bu that tine
our-fifths of the goods sold in High Point the laboring peoplt
FUNERAL OP toS. MAXWELL.- :
Held at Marllwro Quaker Cmrciv. At
tended by; Large Numbecif People -The
Church of HeT":Chiabood--Rev.
Mr. Andrews Conducts - yaneraky
Monday morning the Vemafes of Mrs.
Delia Maxwell, who died Saturday morn
ing at her home, 603 W. Lee street,
Greensboro, were conveyed to Marlboro
Quaker cemetery in Randolph county,
where interment took place.
Accompanying the remains were Mr.
and Mrs. J. M. Millikan, 'brother and
eister in law respectively ot the de
ceased;. Mr. and Mrs. W1. B. Richard
eon, brother-in-law and' sister,' and
daughter, Miss Juanita;and Rev. Mr.
Andrews, all of Greensboro j Miss Maie
Farlowe, of High Pointy a cousin; Mr,
and Mrs. M. G. Davis, of 'Edgar, brother-1
31illikanfc of Staley, JaJf brother Btnd
sister-rh-law ; R, M. Bulla of v Randle
man; W.' Stamey, bffighvPoit, arid
The funeral services pcfeurrfd aC-thel
Marlboro Quaker., church vcOncmcted iVbjr
Rev. & M.1 'Andrews- of IhfeM. P. church
- of Greens boroy 5 :who 'said: , 'tW& have met
here this morning to ; pay ow respects
to our. dead sister, relative .and friend,
Delia Maxwell. The deceased was twice
married, two sons and dne daughter sur
vive by her first union; Messrs, Troy ; and
Jim and Miss Olive Hoover; one brother,
three half brothers and four 'sisters.' For j
many months Mrs Maxwell had suf-1
fered greatly-with that wasting disease,
and while it is natural for loved ones
to Bhed tears, of sorrow at her going,
still I am glad that she is now free
from her great affliction and that death
is a sweet relief. '
Mr. Andrews thenr read a chapter from
the Bible: "iet not vour neans De
troubled," a favorite quotation of the de
ceased. "In my Father's house. are
many mansions; I go to prepare a place
for you" ... x- x. "Jesus says I'm the
Way and the Truth and whatsoever ye
ask of Me I will give unto thee," and
other quotations from the 14th- Chapter
"of. St John, as well as from the 23rd
Ilmf.Tfc:iJjord.ia-
shall not want," etc., were read as fav
1
orite verses of the deceased.
T would be untrue to myself if 1
didn't bear personal testimony of her
readiness to go," said the siaker. "1
visited her frequently and it has been
a spiritual benediction to me. She was
a devout Christian and her only regret
was that she had not been able to do
more in her limited time for the Mas
ters cause. She kept the Bible before
her until too weak to read the word s
and then she would ask me to read and
sing to her. Just a short while before
death I repeated the 23rd Psalm and
sang to her and she enjoyed it so much
My life has been blessed by coming in
to contact with such a woman."
Following Mr. Andrews' talk "Sweet
Hour of Prayer" was sung, after which
M. A. Farlow, an uncle of the deceased,
made a short talk.
The casket was opened and scores of
sorrowing friends and the relatives look
ed for the last time on earth at the face
of Mrs. Maxwell.
The deceased was a member of Wesley
Memorial church, this city.
The floral offerings were very pretty
?nd looked so unusually bright and
fra-rrant out there in that little country
graveyard, transplanted as they were
from the hot houses of the city in all
their frailty and tenderness to breath
the pure air, out in God's great open.
Only a few 4ays ago the father was
laid to rest there and this week the
daughter, and surely the hand of af
fliction has rested heavily on this family,
ljut it is not for mortal man to com
plain. The scene of the burial is close to
the old home place where as a child
she attended services at this Quaker
church, and where every one knew her
her and loved her and today they gath
ered for miles around to pay their last
sad respects in the little white church
f her parents. Tenderly they laid her
frail body ii the ground ad bedecked
her grave with beautiful flowers, bou
quets typical of the resurrection of the
beauty and joys awaiting tbeir dead
friend. ,
The family and relatives have the sin
cere sympathy of all in their sad be
reavement. GETTING READY TO BUILD.
Crowder Bros., proprietors of th'C High
Point Steam Laundry, are having the
large oak tree taken -down on their
lot on East Washington street, just
above the People's Motor company, pre
paratory to commencing work on their
laundry building. This old tree is near
ly a century old and is one of the largest
in the state. It is truly one of the old
landmarks of the city.
DOINGS IN MONDAY'S cattt
Pmt9&fWg&' With- an as
aault o9h Briles witb a whisky bot
tle was1 given SO days on the road Mon
3ay in cReonleis: court. -I Croft bas a
:-:t'ol'bVife?aad five
eiiksdld-Ubnd the tendr-hearted
judge said ;e would, reconsider,-, air
though - suc mar "should be hung.,'
In the case of Ennos Croft the, sentence
of 30 days on the road was suspended,
if Croft is not1 indicted again within
12 months, Het had .to pay . a firpe of
and costs, however.
A. R, Williams, A colored, : got on a
3- -vt Vk.w .1 " i 1 V -s. i - . -
uxui&e om, plU WOrtn Of wmdOW
panes, : pusUined badly lacerated hands
was ordered to-pay $10 for damages,-and
the? costs, m 4hecases against him. S
f .Bert GilliamVoand Will Hill
fach and . costs tLf or disturbing the peacie
S'day-..afteibi ront of the Broad
Br v -KRESS TO BUILD HERE.
j?7A. contraifc 4has been let for the build
rng. of a store for the " Kress . people on
Sputh 'Main street, to W. Pi Rose, of
Gbldsboro. The electrical work, will be
dbe by the . Comstock Electric com
pany, a local concern."
The- building will be one aid .a half
stories, ,cost $25,000, and extend from
Main to Rankin streets, a distance of
200 feet. IThX store will be up-to-date
in every respect and built of the best
material in" keeping with the valuable lot
on which it is located."
Kress has these 5c and 10c stores all
overf the country and for sometime the
company has,-been planning to Open a
store here, in fact have owned the pres
ent location" for five years and just this
year decided to build. -
. :. - . . - n
THREE QUESTIONS INVOLVED.
Mr. Editor: " -
Jn deciding how to vote on, the bond
issue, three things are. essential. v; ,
, First. -Increase . in taxes. The city
can't stand a further increase in inter
est (which is now $27,000) or expense
without : more income, which of course
Second. The plan under which the
money Will be spent. It will cost tne
city 40 to 45 per cent, to cross section,
curbing, gutter and drainage and the
$50,000 bond issue, with the property
owner's part, will not pave Main street
adequately.
Third, WThat streets are to be paved
now? Most probably Main street. The
only thing for the people to do is fo
make up their minds, if we are to ever
get good streets in any reasonable length
of time that they will have to pay for
them- It would take a half million dol
lar bond issue to put the principal
streets in good condition. Why not say
what it will cost the tax payers to do
this, then make the amount large enough
to do some good and see if the people
desire to approve of the plan.
A 20-YEAR RESIDENTER. -
NEW POSTMASTER FOR CITY.
J. J. Farriss has been named as post
master of High Point and will enter
upon hra duties next wee., air. r,
has done much for the town ad the par- r
..... . , TT ;
ty and deserves anymmg ne -u ge.
the, "pie counter." Congratulations.
Spend the Cold Winter Days in Sunny
Climes.
Visit Tampa, Pensacola, "Mobile and
New Orleans. Be there during the holi
day season of the Mardi Grae. Greatly
reduced round trip tickets on sale from
all points via Southern railway.
Tickets osn sale to Tampa, Fla., Feb
ruary 3rd to 8th inclusive, fiial return
limit February 21st, with privilege of
extension of limit to March 8th by pay
ment of $1.00 at Tampa. '
Tickets on sale to Pensacola, Mobile
and New Orleans, February 28th, to
March 6th, inclusive with privilege of
extension of limit to April 3rd on pay
ment of $1.00.
Fast through trains, convenient sched
ules, through sleeping and dining cars.
"The Southern Serves the South."
For full information as to fares from
your station, schedules and reservations,
see nearest agent Soutft rauway,
or
write R. H.
lotte, N. C.
DeButts, D. P. A., Char-
LAYMEN'S CONVENTION.
High Point will heartily coopprate with
Greensboro in the Laymen's Convention
to meet there February 9-13. J. W. Har
riss is chairman of the movement here.
.A E. Tate, vice chairman and T. D.
Gilliam, secretary, who with the vari
ous other committees will keep the
matter before the public. - Large crowds
will attend ''from this city.
Miss Edith Hayworth bas accept
ed a position with the Commercial
National Bank.
Point? W
thtwhc Drncni it iwn
K OF GENERAL NAIDM
N -'.
i The reception to new members at 'ite
.Wesley Memorial church Sunday was an
enjoyable affair. "' ' v
Rev, Lv'VW. Blackwelder is conducting
a mission . at ' Mooresville this week; !;
-The dirtroadway on each side of -the
fine two mile stretch of roadway : . is
being repaired foruse, so as to keep the
heavy wagons and traction engines off,
the main roadway, thanks to Commis
sioner Jones. y - 'W'
Mrs. W. G. Bradshaw is executrix of
ber late husband's estate, valued' . at
$30,000. Peacock and Dalon and G: S.
Bradshaw are the attorneys. Notice of
UvPMit.riv ia .TmMMiVwt .lo.wh.ro :
j . Messrs. CX A.' Kirkman, A:,T.:Wishirt
and -Steve. Clark, are, Richmond bUsiheli
isUorsthis: week.j A;
;A;s judge Daltoh won distinction .in his
argument ; before ; the ' V Interstate ? Cbinf
'mrfee-'pomissio
company against the Raleigh, "Charlotte
nd-:bern';akd theNorf oik I3buthr$
railways, in regard to excessive t 'freighl'
races." . - - '-"vc-,i:-:i:ir
In a "game of basketball in, the. "Arm
ory Saturday night the .:ibertHedf
mont jteam of Wallburg won ' over ;the
High Pointers by a score of 18c to 1
The tars" for High Point were" Far;
low and '' Raper ; for ; Wallburg, Wall,
Shore, Ginn and Ranigant. ' .";;
P. WTard Eshelman was here the firsf;
of the week. 5
Mrr and Mrs. J. D. Mann and children
spent Sunday with Mr. and Mrs. J.J
CTNeal Craig. ' ' 1
V The 18 months old child of Mr. and
Mrs. J. E. Holton?, died at Jamestown
Sunday night. Interment at Springfield
Monday afternoon. ' - ' " X
W. A. Jones is to get out a Republi4the Bink. of Commerce.
can paper' in Thomasville
Every ' Pythian, every fatlv r, every;
good citizen is urged to hear Maj. ' J. G
Baird, of Charlotte, at the Firvt Baptist
church Sunday afternoon at 3 o'clock.'
Mr. Baird will open your eyes to great..;
ana supnme iruins. near nrra au jn
vited; no collection absolutely; frecr
Capt.sA. M. Rankin went to Asheboro
Thursday on business. -0 S. '
the arrival oiv a fine daugnter last
week. - i-.
Mrs. J. A. Hart entertained the "Over
the Tea Cups" club Friday afternoon.
Mrs. C. W. Comstock won the club prize
and Mrs. E. K. Willis, of Washington,
the visitors' prize.
A box party was given at Welch
school house, two miles out, by the
teachers Friday night and a neat sum
realized for the school.
Miss Polly Heitman, one of the teach
ers in the city schools, has g-ne to SSt.
Louis for special treatment.
Messrs. A. M. Scales, S. H. Hodgin, E.
J. Davis and S. B. Turrentine, of Greens
boro, were here Sunday m the interest
. J
to the Sunday school workers in a
mass meeting at Wesley Memorial
church Sunday afternoon.
Fred N. Tate reports a big furniture
show in New York the past week.
The McLellan 5 and 10c store on
RrmVi Main street was entered last
-
ad $M QQ take from th(J cash
ferster The thief had a key to the
, damaged in enter-
ing the store.
Messrs. John W. and R. L. Lambeth
of Thomasville, have been added to the
board of directors of the Wachovia
Bank and Trust company, this city.
A. E. Tate, who attended the furni
ture exposition in New York last week,
says that every indication points - to
a busy year among the factories
Delos E. Hammer, who has been in
Petersburg and Hopewell, is in the city
this week. He is thinking of locating
at Raeford.
Miss Zilla Smith is still on the sick
list.
Mrs. Hunter C. Sechrest successfully
passed an operation for appendicitis at
ihe hospital last week.
Mr. and mrs. o. xu. jvh jvuiui:
day for a trip to New York und Atlan
tic City. While away they will visit
their daughter, Miss Avery, at Philadel
phia. .
J. W. Hobbs, of Greensboro, and Mrs.
Nettie P. Jones were united in mar
riage at the Presbyterian manse last
week, Rev. C. P. Coble officiating.
Mrs. A. E. Tate entertained last week
at an old-fashioned quilting narty, the
quilt being a donation from the High
Point chapter of the U. D. C, to the
Old Woman's Home at Fayetteville.
Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Hiatt entertained
at bridge last week at their home in
Roland Park. Mrs. Frank Sizemore won
the ladie's prize and - Walter, Chandler
the gentlemen's. V
Ed Watson, while playing pranks
at silk mill Tuesday was rendered
unconscious for several minutes.
of the laymen's convention to be held mad print, DUt mnse inai reuiaiuutru
i i r nil T1..-.t annVp nn rtn frl eov th Rnrlindtnn Hawk
Thursday, Jan.
; SOCIAL SERVICE CONFERENCE.
Closes Fourth Annual Session Child
. t Welfare Emphasized. '
. pharlotte, Jan. 26. The State Confer
ene for Social Service which held its
fourth annual session here closed today.
V?kv3; conference began on Sunday with
special r social service sermons from a
number of the Charlotte pulpits and a
miss meeting in the auditorium in the
evening address by Drs. Walter L. Lin
gleV of Richmond and W. L. Poteat, of
Wake Forest. Two sessions were held!
Monday, three on Tuesday and two on
Wednesday. :
' ? While practically every phse of so
cial ' welfare, such as morals, education,
public health, improvement of country
life, the drug evil, child labor, prison
reforms, and others were studied and
discussed,; the major theme of the con
ference seemed to be the welfare of the
child,, its health, morals, education and
development.
, -0. HENRY'S BOOKS OFFERED.
. We call attention to the advertise
ment, -where you can get the O. Henry
stories and Kipling's works at a vtry
small cost. Better read the ad. and or-
der the books today. . A free set of
Kipling's works with each order for the
O. Henry books. The very thing for
library and at such a low price.
HISTORICAL ADS FOR BANK OF
COMMERCE.
This week we start a series of histor
icalbanking ads for the Bank of Com-
;.merce, which will prove intensely inter
esting. Read them each week. The sub
ject tthis time is Robert Morris, an emi
grant boy who later financed the revo
lution, 1 You will learn much of history
by .reading the ads and incidentally
of the advantages cained by patronizing
What He Does Not Print
s The average newspaper man has
much to say on tne subject of the
news that he prints, and as a rule,
there is plenty and of sufficient var
iety to appeal to all classes of readers.
The good citizen may wish that
ihf re were more of the tMngs in
JlMche is SDeciaUy-. interested, but
being fair minded will readily- ioa4iJia?8 arid every rytnian. is urged to
cede that his wish is impossible or
fulfillment, as the tastes of many
have to be consulted.
There are a few in every com
munity who censure the editor be
cause he does not print an occasional
happening that may appear of great
importance to these few. 'The editor
rarely explains: It would be a
waste of uords- But the chances
are that in his heart of hearts he is
more proud of the face that he does
not print some things than of all the
big stories that he has ever served
ud to his readers. He recalls in
after years, not the things that he
. . .'. . J I
Lve. There ne has saved a family
or a circle of friends or some indivi
dual, shame and grief and he can
not doubt, that such things are re
membered and that there is a warm
spot in the hearts of tt;oe interest
ed, because the newspaper man
suspended the rules and refused to
print what a number of the minoriiy
would have considered the best kind
of a story.
Whether he is ever rewarded in
any or not, his own conscience
brings him a "reward that is of suffi
cient value to recompense him over
and over again for everything that
may be said against this course.
He may be ridiculed by a few and
upbraided by others, but his is a
sounder sleep, his is a greater love
and respect , for his calling, because
it enables him thus to do good in a
manner that could be accomplished
in no other way. Occasionally some
one prominent in his own profession
may attempt to conviuce him of the
error of his ways. But he goss on
doing good in his own way and per
mits no oue or nothing to swerve
him from his course He may have
many faults, there are few who have
them not, but this one virtue will
outweigh all faults and in the opinion
of those who know him best, that
one virtue will atone for all the
mistakes that he could possibly
make. No matter how often he
may err in a case of that kind he
ii always right.
Minister in Bid Plight
Rev. E. D, McLean, a Methodist
minister of this state,, stopped off
here yesterday a few hours between
trains and found that he had lost or
been robbed of $38.00 when he went
to pay for a meal at a restaurant,
itev. Gilbert Rowe; an acquaintance,
helped him out of the embarrassing
position. . -
21 1916
SED Ui
Friday afternoon E. E. Mendenhall, of
Greensboro, representing creditors to
the amount of $750, came over to High
Point with the necessary papers to
place the I. A. Morris & Bro. store
in bankruptcy, Judge Boyd signing the
decree. Mr. Mendenhall is receiver un
til January 31, the date set for the hear
ing and: the store will continue Ho sell
goods to that time.
The Morris family have had three
stores in operation here up to last
week, on East Washington, East Com
merce ' and one in the western part of
the city. Last week the store on East
Commerce was vacated leaving the two
in operation. They sold goods at a
very low price and did a big business
and it seems that they now owe for a
big part of same, the full indebtedness
not being known at this time Very
few dollars are owing by this firm to
High Point people, which is a note
worthy fact. x
HORSE BEATERS ARRESTED.
Carl Hill and S. R. McDowell were in
the recorder's, court Friday, charged
with cruelty to animals. It was brought
out a me wiai am lurew rocKs y
a. a. a t j , a t a tt?ii j.-. : i :
at tne DaiKing norse, siruung rt on me
hefcid, while McDowell, the driver,'
whipped the animal around the legs. The
case against McDowell was dismissed,
while Hill was fined $10 and costs. The
arrest was at the instance of the Hu
mane society, which is speaking "fluent
ly for those who cannot speak for
themselves."
NOTED ORATOR COMING.
Sunday afternoon, next at 3 o'clock,
at the First Baptist church, Hon. J. G.
Baird, of Charlotte, grand chancellor of
the Knights of Pythias of North Caro
lina, will lecture on "Better Woman
hood and Manhood," in connection with
the spirit of fraternalism. Mr. Baird is
one of the most gifted speakers in the
state and every one should hear him.
High Point people have never listened to
a more entertaining man and is great
privilege to have him here. He comes at
the request of the local -lodge of. Py-
attend . the meeting, as well TWwfrtrjr
father and mother, or any other citi
zen who loves his town, his f ellowman
and his God.
ORDER FROM CENTRAL AMERICA
The Standard Mirror eompany, of this
city, Italy secured a nice order from
Bluefield, Nicaragua, Central America,
for art glass work for the German Re
formed church. T. A. Cubit, manager of
the art glass department of this plant
toured South America in 1900 and spent
some time in Valparaiso and being ac
quainted withthe country expects to get
many more good orders from South
America, just as this one came from his
trip of several years ago. Friend Cubit
is an experienced man in the business and
and he is making good with a big G for
the Standard.
TOWN BOOSTERS.
We want every, reader of the Review
to read each week the Town Boosters,
beginning today with "The Tendency of
Every Man is to Live Up to His Name."
These articles are written by an expert,
right to the point, and will do you good
to read them. Watch out for the one
next week.
, Died, Mrs. E. Anthony, at her home
in Winston Saturday. The remains were
brought to Mechanicsville for inter
ment. Rev. C. P. Coble preached the
funeral. Deceased was before marriage
a Miss Jackson, of- Mechanicsville, and
was only reecntly married. She was
21 years of age.
The High Point Training school for
Sunday school workers was organized
Sunday afternoon at Wesley Memorial
church, with the election of Thornwell
Haynes, superintendent and A. E. Tate
Assistant. The first meeting , of the
school will be held February 8th at the
auditorium. There will be 12 meetings
in all this spring.
Patrolman H. C. Whiteheart, of Win
ston, was shot by Sam Brooks colored,
Sunday afternoon and is in a serious con
dition. The ball entered the right side,
cutting the kidney half in two. The of
ficer was rushed to the hospital, the
kidney removed arid the patient has a
fair chance to recover. The ntgro made
his escape immediately, notwithstanding
three .or four shots were fired by the
wounded officer and another policemen.
Dr. H. B. Hiatt is now first lieu
tenant in the Medical Department
Of the N. C. National Guard, Gov.
Craig signing the jetition last week.
I)r. Hiatt has seen service before in
military life. . He has been assigned
to the field hospital Corps, No. 1,
Asheville.
IS CLO
2 Pages
MUTUAL GOOD
MEETING OF MERCHANTS' ASSO
CIATION. W. C. Beavans, of the Leonard-Beavans-Staraey
Company, . President Attor
ney Royals, Secretary A Greater Or
ganization Planned.
At a postponed meeting of the Re
tail Merchants' association Friday night
at the Amos Furniture company, mat
ters of importance were disposed' of.
W. C. Beavans was named as president
and W. F. Royals, secretary, who with
an able board of directors expect to ac
complish great things for the organi
zation. The new secretary will give a
good part of his time to the office,
adopt a collection system and payment
for his services will be based upon the
percentage plan, which is believed will
be more satisfactory every way.
The resignation of C. C. Prince, ten
dered three months ago and held over
until the annual meeting, was accepted,
and the new secretary will begin his du
ties February 1st.
Every merchant in High Point is urged
to become a member of the association
which is striving to better conditions in
general and wich ,it is believed will now
be ompiished in a 1 arge measure.
EYE GLASSERS TO MEET HERE
The North Carolina Optometrist as-,
sociation will meet here July 11-12, in
conjunction with the state board of ex
aminers of the association. A large
number of delegates are expected to be
in attendance.
IN MEMORIAL!
William Gaston Bradshaw.
In regular meeting assembled, on Jan
uary 25, 1916, the board of directors of
the Commercial National bank, of High
Point, jWth Carolina, by unanimous
vote, passed the following minute in or
der to perpetuate upon" its records an
expression of personal affection for a
friend, and an appreciation of the valued
services of an able official: -
When this bank entered ujjon its ca- .
reer, almost a quarter of a century ago,
William Gaston Bradshaw was one of
the charter members and a prime mover '
in the enterprise. Fromthat date un- - ;
Si'hina. f ew day?! .of . his trp.j 1
rest- his wise counsel has been muchA',
sought and often followed, and his ad-
ministration as cashier, vice-president . . .
and director has wrought much of the
successful history of the institution. His
fine judgment, poise, and progressive con- ,
servatism have always been potent in
forming the policies of the bank. His
strength of intellect and broad vision
gave him peculiar fitness to sit in the
counsels of a financial institution. His '
mind worked vigorously and accurately,
and he had little patience with the men- ,
tal vagrant who sought to scan the broad
sweep of the horizon when the occasion
called for intensive concentration upon
the matter directly in hand. He was
interested to a degree in all matters
which touched the civic, social and re
ligious life about him, and was ever a'v
leader in the forward movements of his '
church and state. His family life was
ideal in fact, he was a well-rounded and'
a many-sided man, and there is. no .
phase of our city's life that is not the
poorer since he. left it.
We wish it were possible for us to
speak some word that might bring sur
cease of sorrow ( to his grief-stricken
wife and children; they, as we, know
that he was ready to answer when his .
name was called, and that his whole "
life was but one grand preparation for
his final entry into that other and larger,
existence made ready for the faithful
from the foundation of. the world.
Let this memorial be spread , upon
the minutes, of this meeting, printed in
the newspapers of the city, and a copy
sent to the sorrowing family.
To Keep the Work Going
Greensboro has started the move
ment to have the macadam road be
tween there and here completed at
earliest possible time instead " of
waitipg several years, claiming that
it is a too important highway for bad
roads and also that it is expensive
and a waste of money to keep patch
ing up the bad part of the road, be
lieving a way can be provided to
secure the money to complete the
work. Exactly so and High Point is
of the same opinion.
Agents for Tanlac
Hart Drug Co., has the agency for
the "master medicine" Tanlac, which
medicine and the methods used in
advertising it, is attracting no little
attention.
Today is the time to help the
starving. Jews they deserve your
earnest consideration. :
i
f M
"
. I ''. f
' . t
