COLORADO STRIKE RECALLED: INDIANAPOLIS, Jan. 28. Frank J. Hayes, vice president of the United Mine Workers of America, today replied to the attack,
by E. L. Doyle on the management of the Colorado strike. He declared that Doyle had been one of the handicaps in the strike, adding that he was indiscreet and wanij
ed to continue that great strike after it had been hopelessly lost. ,, , ,
RAILROAD OPEN TO TORREON: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28. Railway communication to Torreon andDurango was restored today; line is patrolled by troops: :
BRANDISH FOR BENCH:. WASHINGTON, Jan. 28. President Wilson today sent to the Senate the name of Louis D. Brandish, for supreme j court justice
CRUDE OIL PRICE ADVANCES: PITTSBURGH, Jan. 28. An increase of ten cents in the price of crude oil is announced today. ' ?
LED TROOPS ACROSS LINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 28. A court martial of three army officers who led U. S. soldiers into Mexico near Brownsville, -.will 'probably
result if the investigation proves that they violated orders not to cross the boundary. ' ; '
i 7
A
VOLUME XLVI. NUMBER 9.
Desti uciiv
S. P. SUFF
TRAINfflASTERS
The Yuma Daily Examiner
is indebted to Trainmaster
Lee for the following very
clear statement of railroad
conditions, that will no doubt
be read with great interest:
It will be several days be
fore any trains will run thru,
west of Indio. The weather
reports received at noon yes
terday, just before all the
wires went down, indicate
several storms on the Pacific
coast and as far east as Indio.
The Southern Pacific rail
road tracks between Los An
geles and White Water are
badly washed out. Several
bridges are washed away and
most of the repair work which
was done before the high
water just west of Yuma has
been washed away again.
No. 1 will leave El Paso on time
daily and run through to Yuma, re
DMA ML
HOTELS DECLARED SAFE
Beth the Gandolfo hotel and the
Molina house are now considered per
fectly safe and all tenants are moving
bafck into their old quarters. Because
tmb ground flooring was warping bad
Ja notice had been issued that they
were unsafe. Experts have made a
careful examination of the foundations
and pronounce them as good as ever.
VALLEY FARMERS
SHOULD BE CONFIDENT
The farmers in Yuma valley who
were flooded as a result of the cutting
of the levee should not get too badly
excited. Uncle Sam has neveryet
done an injustice to his citizens, nor
will he do so now, if the levees were
cut by his orders.
ONLY 2 DEATHS ARE
ATTRIBUTED ID FLOO
As great as was the flood disaster
there were but two deaths that can
be attributed to it the death of our
honored mayor, and that of the faith
ful section foreman who lost his life
In the discharge of his duty in pro
tecting the Southern Pacific railroad
bridge.
ARIZONA
A;
turning the same night as No. 10.
. These trains will handle all the
mail, baggage and express and passen-
j gers for points on the Inter-California
' and Imperial branch west, and for all
points east from the same territory.
We expect to have passenger ser
vice, commencing later today, and
until the line west of Indio is open
on both the Inter-California and the
Imperial branches.
There are nine trains of freight for
the east between Indio and Yuma that
will be moved east as fast as train
and enginemen are available. Since
4 p. m., yesterday up to 11 a. m., to
day, 300 loaded and 200 empty cars
have passed through Yuma, west.
(Nineteen moer trains, or about 1400
cars for the Avest are set out between
Yuma and as far east as El Paso,
, which will be moved west and wait for
the line to be opened.
A special train of Pile drivers and
bridge men with 34 cars left here at
I 3:30 p. m., yesterday, eng route to the
j Gila river near Phoenix to open the
, line over Gila river at that point,
which has been washed out for a week
we expect to have the line open into
Phoenix about next Friday.
LEVEES TO BE REBUILT
AND TOWN WILL 6R0W
Yuma will now grow by leaps and
bounds, for it is a certainty that all
government levees will be reinforced
and raised from end to end of the
project, and there is every reason to
believe that the old government levee
east of the city will be entirely rebuilt
under the direction of the War De
partment. While this is being done
the city itself should construct a verj
strong levee at the foot of Main and
Gila streets. That will then make
Yuma immune from all floods.
YUMA VALLEY GETS
WATER: IMPERIAL SA
Yuma project may have suffered a
good deal at the hands of the flood,
but our troubles are small indeed as
compared, with what the flood did for
Imperial Valley. The water itself did
not do so very much damage over
there, but what the silt and sand did
is a caution. It is safe to say that
enough sand went through Hanlon
Heading to cover all of Yuma valley
several feet deep. Better have the
water than sand, at least that's the
way Yumaites view it.
BRITISH CASUALTY LIST GIVEN
(Associated Press)
LONDON, Jan. 28 Premier Asquith
in a written statement, says that the
' total British casualties to January 9,
are 549,467. k
IRE H:
IKE STATEMENTS
YUMA SOUTHWEST
YUMA, ARIZONA, THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1916.
HER RISING ALL ALONG THE
GILA AI ITS TTI8UTARJES
(By B. F. Fly)
The warning sounded in these columns yesterday was
none too soon, for this morning, shortly after 10 o'clock,
through the courtesy of Train Dispatcher Lee, the follow
ing telegram was received in response to my personal re
quest for information touching flood conditions over at
Phoenix and vicinity:
"PHOENIX, Jan. 28. Twelve feet of water in Salt
river at Tempe this morning. This is eighf feet less than
the crest of the last flood. There- are five and one-half
feet of water coming over the diversion dam, 18 miles
above Phoenix. This is two and two-tenths feet less than
the last flood. There is about an eighteen-inch rise in
the Gila in the last 24 hours-"
Right on the heels of this, Project Manager Lawson re
ceived the following brief message from Project Manager
Cone, of Phoenix:
"Big increase. in flood this mommy. Roosevelt (dam)
rising rapidly."
It can be seen by the above information that un
less every precaution is taken, both on the old govern
ment levee, as well as at the foot of Main and Gila
streets, that Yuma will probably be flooded again. No
time will now be lost in mending these breaks, but it will
take almost superhuman work to keep the flood out of our
streets if the river should reach the 30-ft. or 31-ft. stage.
Project Engineer hopes to close the 17-mile break by
tomorrow night. The four-mile break has already been
closed, and.trains can now be utilized to haul dirt and
rock to the bigger break below.
In the meantime, it is exceedingly doubtful if the two
big breaks in the Bard unit levee can be mended in time
to withstand such an amount
to be coming down from Phoenix.
The ground is now so thoroughly saturated that two
thirds of the water of the last flood will make the river
almost as high here as it was on the fatal morning of
January 22. It has been raining constantly in Phoenix
and vicinity for the past two days. If this rain extend
ed up into the mountains where there has been such un
precedented snows, there is no telling what the flood may
amount to. It will certainly.be as great as the one we
have just experienced.
It is not my purpose to foe an alarmist, nor to print
sensational nonsense. The information given above is
from the most authentic sources. It is indefinite enough
to be alarming, and everybody should be on guard pre
pared for the very worst. Better be agreeably surprised
than be caught unguarded. Lightning seldom t strikes
twice in the same; but floods often go over the same
grounds. Let us hope for the best; but, by all means, be
prepared for the worst.
"Good Roads" Contractor Creswell was put in charge
of filling in the breaks at the end of Main and Gila
streets as soon as word was received of the rise over at
Phoenix. Supervisors and city officials are backing him
and he will not rest until those approaches are made per-
(Continued on
SF NTT NET.
0 OFolizio
of water as is now known
Page Four)
LOCAL TELEGRAPH FORGE BROKE
RECORDS IN HANDLING MESSAGES
(By B. F. Fly)
The local Western Union
telegraph company broke all
previous records' in both re
ceiving and sending messages
during the flood period.
A careful estimate taken
from Manager D. H. Inman's
records shows that 350 mes
sages were sent and 200 re
ceived on January 22; 300
sent and 150 received on Jan
uary 23 ; 250 sent and 200 re
ceived on January 24; 200 f
sent and 150 received on Jan-(
uary 25; while, during the tie
up of the Southern Pacific,
for the five days prior to the '
flood an average of 150 sent
and 150 received, brought the
total telegrams sent as 1,850
and those received at 1,450,
independent of the Associ
ated Press messages.
Averaging all these mess
ages at 20 words each, which
is below rather than above a
conservative estimate, it will
be seen that Manager Inman
and his efficient force han
dled over 70,000 words during
the time indicated, . to say
nothing of the many thou
sands of words sent the Asso
TESDO
El
S
Poor Lo got a whole lot the worst
of the flood. All last year a good
many Bardites were constantly com
plaining that the Indians had the very
choicest lands of the reservation unit. '
Wonder how they would like to swap .
places at the present time?
Bard farmers will be given irrigat
ing water quite awnne oetore tne
Yuma Valley can hope to get it, all
the upper canals being O. K.
NOBLE WORK DONE III
ELIE1G DISTRESS
The Relief Committee has certain
ly done splendid work, and great
credit should be given Chairman Geo.
Michelsen, A. B. Ming, Jim Hodges,
Major Donkersley, E. S. Kirkpatrick,
and L. W. Alexander for the unselfish
manner in which they worked in this
praiseworthy cause. Miss Jennie Pol
hamus, Mrs. Dr. Rooney, Mrs. Kirk
patrick and Miss Adelle Priest were
unusually active from the time the
first sign of distress was given.
"'' ' '
v
f
".""As "i ". -
ARIZONA SENTINEL FOUNDED 1870
Traffic
ciated Press.
All of the work during the railroad
tie-up and the first 2 days of the flood,
was handled by the regular office
force. On the morning of the 24th,
Operator J. C. Powldison reached Yu
ma from Los Angeles, having been
marooned at Araz for a day on ac
count of the S. P. wash-out. He soon
jumped to -a key and stuck to it with
Manager Inman and Operator Albert
Ramirez and Clerk Henry Hodges,
until everything was brought right up
to the minute.
The local office not only broke all
records from a number standpoint,
but it also broke all records from the
standpoint of handling money orders
relatives and friends of distressed
Yumaites flashing money over the
wires from every part of the country.
All this was handled promptly, though
Messenger Theodore Coulter was kept
busy day and night finding the per
sons to whom the messages were ad
dressed, as many of them had been
forced from their homes and it re
quired no small amount of work to
find them.
"If I had not been lucky enough to
have the best working force in the
Western Union service, the office
never could have done what it did,"
said Manager Inman this morning.
Mr. Inman and his entire force cer
tainly deserve great credit for what
they did. My desk was right by the
operating table, and I can personally
testify to the faithful manner in which
all the force did its whole duty; and
never once lost its head.
A, P. NEWS FAILED
ET
Yesterday was the first day during
all the "late unpleasantness" that the
Yuma Daily Examiner failed to get
its regular Associated Press news,
which was posted free to. the public
each day on the front door of the Ex
aminer office. The cause of the lapse
yesterday was the fresh wash-outs
near Banning, which severed all com
munication ' with Los Angeles. The
eastern lines were so congrested that
no news could be sent to Yuma from
that direction.
PRESIDENT BUST ON
HIS DEFENSE SPEECHES
(Associated Pressj
WASHINGTON, Jan. 28. President
Wilson today returned from New York,
where last night he delivered the first
"national defensse" speech. He will
leave for the Middle West tonight, go
ing as far as Topeka, Kansas, on Feb
ruary 2,
