Mil 111 (( ' hm i tf ff r
P .If f (TWiH! fir i) (fflMTO(ftf
Jjt f( j( 3 j j
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
; .
$ ;
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY . .
'AJf .: .
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS K'fS
9
NEUTRALS
LL M BE IGNORED
Allies Will Unite In f
Protests if United
. Joseph Has Stroke;
at Aden In Dai
f iration of Policy In Answering
qtes and Sweden Emperor Franz
Lpoplexy British Army of 20,000
ous Position London Populace
Warned to Stay In Doors During Air Raids
London, Jan. 27. Issuance ' of a joint allied note,
answering trade interference protests from the United
States and Sweden, and setting forth the allies position
toward neutral trade during the war is contemplated, it
was learned today. By uniting the allies in a single
declaration of policy, the government plans an impressive
showing to influence neutral nations.
The newspapers today applauded the government in
timation that it intends to deal firmly in answering the
American trade protest. At the same time, they pointed
out that Sir Edward Grey had given assurance that the
nation is not ignoring the interests of neutrals, and they
.supported his contention, made in the blockade debate
yesterday, thabEngland could not yield to America with
out jeopardizing the success of the allies.
Concerning the government announcement that it will
stand for the present on its present technical blockade of
Germany, editorials today are widely divergent. Those in
favor of an actual blockade fiercely attacked the govern
ment and declared that they intended continuing their
campaign for more effective measures, despite the Grey
"stand pat" statement.
On the other hand, the government supporters ap
plauded the decision of the government to steer clear of
any course involving Great Britain with America or other
neutrals. '
"Sir Edward Grey's statement," said the Daily News,
"is the final, crushing reply to the wild incendiaries who
with shameful levity are playing with the peril of bringing
the whole world to arms against Great Britain.''
FLEEING RUSS ABANDON ARMORED SHIELDS; GERMANS USE THEM
v:: : .' . . w .......
festers v -ICelM - zs-'Wk h
tit v -r- s--'3" 5
nis movable armor protected shield behind which a squad of men could find shelter while pumping a
rain of shell into the enemy is one of the many being used by the Germans. It is the invention of the Rus
sians, who made use of it when the German .vere laying siege to the Russian fortress of Grodno. The ap
paratus is equipped with six wheels. Two horses are harnessed to it in order to bring it into position.
HEAv
!
RI 111
Oil SECTION
Berlin, by wireless to Sayville, I.. I., I convention here, ns tremendously op
Jan. 2". Twenty thousand British posed to the government conscription
troops defending Aden, Arabia, ore in I bill, which through passage by the lords
a rangeroiis position from atiacks by hint night, became a law. A resolution
combined Arab a:id Turkish forces, ac-j passed by the convention, declared that
cording to the Cologne Volkszeitiing to- conscription is "contrary to the spirit
I:iv. This paper reported that the! of British, democracv, and full of dan-
V.nglish had lost 15,011(1 in killed and
'jn.iMKl in wounded theie since the coin
hat began.
A wounded British major was given
ns authority for the statement that the
Arab sheikhs liuil joined the Turks, and
tlmt ncnrly IOU.OUO square miles of
Arabia, formerly controlled by the Brit
had been lost to them. The Arab
ians were said to be living British arms
aiiinst the British forces.
Aden is a strongly fortified town
Known as the "Oibralter of the V.int."
P'cause of its position with reference
ger to the liberties of the people."
To Stop Some Imports.
London, Jan. 27. The government
has decided upon a partial prohibition
of importation of many nrticles not
absolutely necessary to the nation, in
order to relieve the shipping condi
tions, President Kunciman of the board
of trade announced in the house of com
mons today. Ho said the whole British
mercantile marine will be placed under
government control.
Neutral nations, particularlv the Un
ited States, from whence come the most
t'l the Suez canal, it is a verv import- of the prohibited nrnnWta. will Hi
nut trading center. It has a eommodi- ( hardest hit.
mis bay, and Is the chief trading port i Imports of wood pulp, glass and to
ot' Arabia. baceo will be permitted to enter in
Merlin reported several wechs ago. limited quantities; pos.dblv, later the
that the Turks had driven the British government will prohibit ' imports of
in (in Aden anil were preparing to attack ! furniture, woods and other raw ma
tlie city, but this was denied by IhejtcrinU, and exports of rags and other
T1 "it isli. I waste from which paper is made, as well
I as several other products.
rranz JosepU Stricken.
Home, Jan. 27. Emperor Franz Jo
seph of Austria -suffered two strokes of
Woman Whose House Had!
Been Robbed Several Times
Kills Neighbor
St. Louis, Mo., Jan. 27. Several un
paid coal bills tucked in the pocket of
her dress, and a number of melodramat
ic -novels iu her home, told today, in the
the police view, the story of why Mrs.
J. Y. McWilliams, wife of a railway
mail clerk, turned burglar and was
killed by a neighbor.
The neighbor, Mrs. Jennie O. Thorn
burg, explained she had been the vic
tim of a burglars raid several timos.
Apparently from the nature of the ar
ticles stolen, the intruder was a woman.
So las.t night, Mrs. Thornbuig sat with
a loaded revolver in her darkened home
waiting for the burglar.
Soon sho entered. A streak of fire
flashed out in the room. A woman's
shrill scream sounded. On the floor
beneath the window lay the lifeless
form of Mrs. McWillinmH, a filo clasp
ed in her hand, showing how she had
sawed her way into the house.
A patrol wagon clanged up to the
house. Children playing in the street
gathered in curiosity. In the group
was Mrs. McWilliams' little girl. She
didn't know the still form beneath the
white sheet was that of her mother.
Investigation today showed Mrs. Mc
Williams had been acquitted in 1013 of
the death of Mrs. Myrtle Neff, who
died after eating dumplings Airs. Mc
Williams had made. A year later Mrs.
McWilliams was arrested on a charge
of robbery but the enso was later dismissed.
START MEW FLOOD
Rainfall at Long Beach 3.33
Inches In 15 Hours
Streets Are Rivers
Purchases Million Dollar Plant
Has Orders for All
Work It Can Do
SECOND SNOW STORM IN
SACRAMENTO VALLEY
Again S. P. Alone Keeps
Trains Running
San Francisco, Jan. 27. The I'niun
Iron Works, which has just purchased
the shipbuilding plant of the I'nited
Kneinoeriiiir Works for $1,000,000 will
spend $300,000 more improving the
place, according to announcement to
day by president J. A. McGregor.
The plant will be modernized in ev
ery way. Machinery of the latest type
will cost $.10,000 and three new slips
will bo built. .McGregor declares tii.it
the business already waiting for the
I'uion Iron Works will keep the new
plant going to rapacity for an indef-
Railroad Traffic Is Stopped; it would not be long before even these
new lacilities lor nis company wouki
be outgrown.
"The demand for ships is almost be
yond comprehension," said McUrcgor,
"and price is no object just -now. 1
hive been compelled recently to stop
negotiations because we had not the l'a-
Los Aligns, CO., Jan. 27. Floods cilities to fill the orders that poured
hit southern '"California with renewed in.
force today.
Following an all nigh downpour,
the waters which did millions of dol
lars of damage a week ago, and exact
ed a toll of several lives, again bcc.ime
dangerous.
Rain is predicted for the next Hffi Sacramento, Jan.
hours. Along the coast it is accom- J quake
panied by a stiff galo, which drives it The b ironieter nt
in almost horizontal sheets. .Many otjternoon registered
the l.os Angeles city Btrcets nre riv
ers. Railroad service, half repaired after
TWO AMERIGAN SOLDIERS
CAPTURED BY MEXICANS
Four Were Swimming In Rio Grande and Getting Beyond the
Border Two Were Forced to Land On Mexican Side
Fourteen of Their Comrades Swam the River to Rescue
Thenij of These Four Were DrownedFeeling On
Both Sifles Bitter and Clash Is Imminent
Barometers Break Record
Is It Storm or Quake?
-Is it storm or
(Continued on Paae Three.)
Must Stay Inside.
London. Jan. 27. The London rion-
npoplexy and is in a serious condition, j ulnce was warned today it must stav
according to reports received here by
Uiplomnts today.
indoors when uir raids are made against
the city.
"To increase the protection against
hostile air craft," aaid a police stale-
It is more nccessurv that the
like to cover during raids so as
AMERICAN BUSINESS
MEN WOULD BROADEN
2 o'clock this af
.S.!).", the lowest
mark it has dropped to in the history
of the weather bureau.
Southern 1'acific officials have re
ports of an unusually big snow storm
in the Hierris. It is saiil that the
snow is falling so thickly that it is
difficult for persons to see more than a
few l'cet nheid of them.
It is believed railroad traffic will
again have to be suspended because of
the heavv snow.
Washington, Jan. 27. Details of the drowning of four
American solars in the Rio Grande near Brownsville,
Texas, yesterday, and the Mexican capture of two of a
swimming party of soldiers were related in a telegram
from GeneraFVunston given out by the war department
today as follows: '
"We have received the following from Major Anderson
of the Twelfth cavalry from the sub-district of Mercedes,
timed 8 p.m.:
' " 'Four men of Battery D of the Fourth field artillery
swam across the Rio Grande, stripped, in bathing, at
Progreso, about H :30. Two were taken prisoners by three
Mexicans with rifles and were taken to the interior. The
other two swam back and several shots were fired at them.
Lieutenant J. E. Mort, commanding the battery, with
Lieutenants Peyton and Waldron and fourteen battery
and one cavalryman crossed the river three quarters of
an hour later and went three quarters of a mile into the
interior and searched two houses, but did not find their
comrades. They were fired on ten or twelve times from
the brush. They remained on the other side for an hour.
The return crossing was covered by our men on this bank,
who fired some 200 shots. None of our men were killed
or wounded.
" 'The following four were drowned in swimming1 to
the other side: Sergeant Owen Clements, Corporal Michael
King, Privates Harry Rhode, and Charles Wiltenbest. All
were carried away by the swift muddy current and their
bodies were not recovered. We are searching for them.'
" 'The following are still in the hands of Mexicans on
the other side: Privates William Wheeler and Biggo
Peterson'."
Funston reported the arrest upon his orders of the
lieutenants who swam across the river. He said the
Mexican consul had been informed of Anderson's telegram
and that the consul had asked the Matamoros command
ant to make an immediate search for Wheeler and
Peterson."
The Mexicans, Funston said, were not uniformed.
Opposes Conscription.
Hnstol, Kag., Jan. 27. F.nglish work-' incut,
nieu recorded themselves todav, through1 public
lllt-ir retireseiltntives ill tint liiif l.il.ntvtn lip Mlinltnritil frnm f.illinrr f'riiiTmnntu I
I sjc! Storm French Trenches.
lL. ET ! Berlin, via favville. L. L. Jan. 27.
Low In San Francisco.
San Faruicsco, .Ian. 27. At 10 o'-
mFir irr k pfnr f-v j- f- HHr A r idock the Merchants Kxchangif barpm
I Hh Ifr h ih III f It I r J III ip,r """ded MM as agunst the low
1 1 lLJllX 1 -1 - VJl 1 AfLSU mark of 2!1.07 in lSltl. It had taken a
Iron of .11 insiik' of 2 1-2 hours.
New Orleans, La Jan. 27. Ameri-1 tic prosperilv," he continued. "The
l ; ..n l .-.i Ctii-1 li'i. frt ) r'nfMiiz(t thuf there rfltl ',
l,v leading liht of llm financial and '' "" stable-prosperity at home unless : P" ?"
Iluring the forenoon rain fell here in
sheets, but in the early nfternoon the
sun broke through the clouds lor a
time and tho rain ceased nt least tem-
industrial worm to spread out ti"" ; American manufacturers abroad
hands ot American trade to corners or . , , in nornul ,imeil nt)out tiO per
. ' "Mv UiaillU ; After successful blasting operations, the1 thl? -arth where other nntions have fMlt of our t.x,,rtB consist of food-
$j Hermans stormed the French positions I ru''''' supreme. stuffs and raw materials gives a stand-
"ii u front of from .-,0(1 to lilMi vnrds at! 'riliB advice was voiced before Ihe.j nf n,P1Hur,.meiit for the enormous
I the Artois. said todnv's offii ial state-' ,ll"'tl National Foreign Trade conven- nobilities of our mechanical prodtic-
meat. tiou ly l'resident James A. iarrcll otjtion Jt woll, I1I1V ua bettl,r t0 ,..
tlln I'nited States Steel corporation, I rt our nW nmt,rin!s into finished pro-
Surviviors Captured. John Clanscn of San Francisco, mana-1 ()u(,ts l(.r(, ,,, to st-1 1 them for con
London. Jan. 27. Senu-p-u tribesmen 'r f the foreign trade department f 1 version abroad,
in northwestern F.gvpt have captured ,n0 ''rocker National bunk, l'resident (1,ut 0r u.ivniicc f that direction
!.) survivors of His Majesty's ship Ta-, '""son or tne naidwin jocomn- wi he r,.iBtively slow, without a con
we are able to make liberal saleH ofl '11 common with other cities, San
j-jn Fr incisco has had an abnormally large
amount or riuu inis nioiiin, out no
flood conditions.
if
i ra. it was announced todav.
itive Works and J. Berwind of New1
York. Particularlv, thev
Aggressive Bears Keep
Most Stock Prices Down
New York
stantly broadening foreign outlet for;
(Copyright Mill l.tv the
Lvening Post.)
New York, Jin. 27. The aggressive
professional movement against prices
(.nn,l,.,.l,,li ,- . " . . .. .""I nl siaciien uuriiig ine eariy nour
empiusiiC'i . , i Am,,ni.un manufacture. Iti, .u . ......i i ... i....
The Kaiser's Birthday. the importance of gaining fresh trade is .,, iu illtPrt of thn work-1 ,;; :,"" ,, j,' it , , ,"f.
lleilin. Jan. i!7.-Kaiser Wilhel.n eel-: Uh South America holding that ' com- mju) , ,,is employer that provision be ' l!ailwav share, dl a
eloatcd his 57th biithda.v t.1ay afield "lerc.al preparedness" is a vital, throb- ,,,,. for H Mpil,,v mIc ,,r,m, of thej,,. ,, ;omc w(ir Btoeks scored
with Ins troops. I lianccllor on lieth-, bing need of the I. lilted States. products f the mcchnuicnl industry lilt1(,r violent, declines, but the changes
icannllolUvcg lelt last night to join foreign investment is a commercial f the Fnited States. In fact the fore-! woro irregularly distributed. Many
,llm" . , , , preparedness measure, a source of pro-, i((n )U,i,1(,..s in mriv corporations, since I recovered at inid-dnv and iu the clos'-
A the emperor s rcpicsl, elaborate lection for the whole industria fabric , , W,r ,.,,.,, , ,t.,M1 tnolr greatest ing hour a verv decided reaction from
ccVlirnhons cu-tomarv iu the past, ' of our country, should the wo.-hl rc le ; ,,H!Wti u, t)l(, t,v jBtification for 'the curlier weaknws ensued.
were not duplicated. Mags were hung to political-commer 1 policies of trade ;, (,.,rlilti(1 f tlit-ir plants on full1 The news of the day was not gloomv.
out. I.iit parades mid demonstr itions restriction," said Farrell iu sounding til1(, ' St. Iaul increased its dividend, while
were Inching. Ill Berlin, enter . a-, the keynote of the gathering. "Itii ..T,is profitable ,mpl0vment v. ill 1 the New Yofk state 2.-,illMl,(MM fours
n. cots were eiven for the lienefit of the an element of strength in nur influence' ... . .. .. i. n i . t ...- ... : i.i: i i
I OH 1-4 and promptly cold on the curb
1 1 's swei
it often ch
lint 's wov-i
i . 1 liiau'.i'.iiio
t t
be reiuend ci c
iper t' he i'.t
n t i-i in ' t ' lend
in bod.'
i.e.i !i nn i ror ine cnii.iiea or fol- n n nation, shou i a wiser instinct rea- .. t : .i... ...-.n :.. i.:i;.
, , , . ,. :bze that the true guarantee of the , , n.,ri(,,t t), (. product n ill not , n in the
I he hmser has recovered from his re- world's peace is the provision of c-pial . ,., ( war .,rn,.,H r,.it n,rey on
ii it illness and now spend must o' r.i.m.rtm, iv tr .,11 " ..... . , ....... . '
' ui". u ,i 1. 1- fi, .nr. iii.nverieK ;i'iiiii .11 -T .- 1.1 tin: 1-41-1 ...:..,.
the dnyhfiit hours alu Id. He diwlared foreign investment of Am- i i,-f,.. I,e ti. nn,. nf (1,.. 1 tliniujh with no material increue in tho here, maintained no patrol nt Progreso,
our manufacturers will ! ratio of reserve to liaiulities. i lie
I-reach liauk also reported an addition
lbove
The Hank of llngland reported a
gain of fi.'.'so.liip in gold the past week,
Brownsville, Texas, ,?an. 27. Offi
cials here sought today to gourd against
open clashes between American and
Mexican troops ns a result of tho
drowning of Sergeant Owen lieinents,
Corporal Michael King, Privates liar
iv Rhode and Charles Wiltenbest, as
they were trying to rescue Privates
William Whee'ler and Hi vgo I)ti4erson
whom the Mexicans at Progreso cap
tured yesterday afternoon.
Though a cross fire swept above tho
swimmers, none was hit. Their com
panions hud been seized after swim
ming to the Mexican side of the river.
Tiio drowned men sank while going
across to wrest their companions from
I liu Mcxic.uis.
The fate of Wheeler and Pcdcrson is
unknown. But Carianza authorities,
upon request of American military men:
are seeking to rescue the pair. The of
ficials claimed at first that there was
no nntrol of 'arr.in.isttt soldiers in j
I that neighborhood, but it is claimed
definitely iiorc that the captors wero
in the uniform of the de facto gov
ernment. Meantime, General Funston main
tains that the American soldiers were
at fault for swimming in tho liio
Grande beyond the American lino.
Four men wero in the w.iter when a
! bund of Mexicans appeared on tho
J opposite bunk and ordered the quartet
to continue on to ine .Mexican sciuu.
Wheeler and Pederson obeyed, but t.io
others dived and escaped.
Men Were Boized.
I'pon reaching tho Mexican side, the
two men were seized and taken away.
Fourteen Americ.iii soldiers immediate
ly organized n relief expedition and
swam over the river whilo gnus from
, both sides scattered U cross fire above
them. None of the bullets, however,
struck the swimmers.
I The relief expedition seurehed two
houses on the .Mexican bank but found
1 no traco of their companions. As they
'returned to tho American lines, Mexi
can bullets again sputiered past them.
As evidence of his belief that the
Americans hid violated orders against
crossing into Mexico, Funston ordered
I the arrest nf Lieutenants .Mort, wnni
ron and Payton, ot Battery l, Fourth
artillery. At tiio same time, he issued
instructions to send a held officer to
Progreso, about 110 miles from here, to
investigate.
Though Colonel Uuintinillii in com-
! maud of the ( arranzistas .icross from
erican capital necessary to meet the
competition,
inn- -e.-iicr coniriel it ion evoe.-te.l in Wi.r M i .. . . ..... . !. ....... i.i i
I, nt ' It-should be explained that
Men.-land pastor who denouiic. - moth-rs trade after the war. m,t ,,,, K1(fl, to conclude that'it will be "f l,07r,,0O(! to its gold reserve which
";!' lve 'her boys better than their "We can no lono-er talk of forego 1 "l ' li w within it I l.'ioll.OOO of the high
'""'her. I trade me- .dy ns an adjunct of domes-i (Continued on Page Five.) record reached iu December.
nation ueer was
h iinmediutclv ordered n detachment
of men near Progreso to hunt the cap
i tors.
The fear of officials that there might
'be open clashes between Anicricia and
Mexican troopers seemed to have som
ground from the fact that there has
been ill feeling, particularly oil tho
Mexican side of tho boundary since last
summer when there wero numerous
raids in this section. All commanders
were ordered, however, to keep a strict
watch on their troops ami to seo to it
that there was no hostile act on th
part of tiio Americans. Recurrence of
swimming episodes will also be care
fully guarded against.
May Cause Trouble.
Washington, Jan. 27. Press reports)
of the Mexican seizure of two Ameri
can soldiers neir Brownsville yester
day, with drowning of others whilo
swimming in the Rio Grande, gave oc
casion for alarm in ofl'iciul circles to
day, according to authorities. It was)
suggested, though, thut the incident
might lead to a fresh outbreak of anti
Mexican and auti-ndministrution din
cushion in congress.
Officials declared that the America
soldiers hud no business in Mexico, and.
that the Mexican authorities were)
within their rights if they arrested
them for crossing the boundary.
This is not the first incident of tha
kind. Once a dozen soldiers crossed
near El Paso, und the Juarer. authori
ties irrcated them, but released them
as soon as they ascertained that tut
crossing was accidental.
If civilians, and not Carranzista sol
diers, captured tho two, General Funs
ton probably will ask the Cirrunza
commander for assurances of their
safety, and hold the ( arranzistas re
sponsible for Iheir safo keeping. If tha
Americans crossed tho river in at
tempting to rescue their comrades, it
is expected the Carranzista comnund
er will protest to Funston, and that
(Continued on IVe S i.
t THE WEATHER ;
' Oregon: Tonight
and Friday un
Mettled, probably,
snow; not much,
change in tuuu
Iv winds, strong
near tho coast,
