THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Snow to-day; probably fair to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 30: lowest, 2(3.
Hetalltd weather, mall and marine upoils un page 1 .'.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 166.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1916. Copyright, J916. by the Sun I'mttng and I'ubHMng Aoclatto,i.
58 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
HUNT CHEF AS
SOUP POISONS
150ATFEAST
rolit'i' Sny They Found
Deadly Drugs in 'the
Cook's Room.
Hundred Men Made Up U.S. TO ACCEPT
the Baff Murder Fund I U BOAT DECREE,
OFFICIALS SAY
Police Get Confessions Showing Plot Was Hatched
Among Business Enemies of Poultryman Only a
Dozen in Pnnei Ring Knew Killing Was Afoot.
EXPECT TO ROUND UP ALL THE CONSPIRATORS
Acquiescence- Expected De
spite British Threat of
Trade Reprisals.
CHOXKS HAD JOIN KD
AX ANARCHIST BAND
Archbishop Mundelein De
nies Religious Persecu
tion Was Responsible.
Ckkuo, Feb. 12. The ollc! are
fcuntin to-night for Jean Crone. assist
r.t chef of the University Club, where
150 guests at the banquet to Archbishop
Mundelein were poisoned by soup on
Thursday nlsht. The order for his nr
rtt went out from police hfadquaiters
to-day.
Dr. Roblnjon, health officer, has or
iired a further analysis of the roup to
Sad cut how much poison there was In
it.
The polue who searched Crone' loom
M d that they found many botlles lab
elled "pulson."
Tne first suspicion of the man," 11. J.
Pohfriy manager of the club, told Capt.
ColllnJ. "came when lie failed to repoit
for fork on Friday.
-! top of that we pot h m t lerlous
ephar.e call at the club from a man
"lerlav. He ashed the chef be tn-fo-T.ed
he was sick and would be off
d-'y mm time This rail came from
lie miwlns man.
Went til III llooill.
-I ,ool,ed up the records and Rot the
mime and address of the man. and
H,2iin fiuiil that vvns spent In procuring
the murder of llarnet Haff. They were
assessed from $2.". to $100 apiece, ac
cording in the state of llielr poekelbooks
and the degree of their haired of the
merchant who hail exposed , the "poultry
trust" and whom thry accused of strid
ing to prosperity ocr the ruin of their
limine?.
Twenty-live of thise men met In a
loom near West Washington Market the
day before llaff was shot and agreed
that the situation demanded "emergency
measure." Among the tventy-fle only
a dozen knew that murder was afoot.
All the other of the hundred who sub
scribed to the fund were fooled by an
Inner rliiK "f conspirators Into believing
that the moiuy wa to be used In some
legitimate way. possibly In lawsuits, to
"put Hart In hi place."
The smallest share of the blood money
distributed Hfter the uiunler by Ippollto
Oreco. the middleman and paymaster. In
his Harlem saloon, went to little Joe
Atcolla, the KUiiman who, according to
the police nnd the District Attorney, ha
confessed that he nnd another gunman
shot llaff. Utile Jne, described by hi
comrade a a "IkhiIi," got only $100.
The largest shim-, $1,010, was retained
by i'a master Uieco a hi commission.
The .'Murder Pit; roll.
The second gunman he ha not been
found and may be dead received Slut)
Tho two Zafarano brothers, Uluscppc
and Antonio, who ate pictured a hav
ing served as lookout for the murder
crew and who are held as "witnesses."
came In for $30o uplece. The third look
out, Carnilne 1)1 Paolo, also In custody,
Neatly ino men tontilbuled to the i pendent juice wele controlled by a
Kroup wno niter organized the Live 1'oul
try Dealer Association. Huff Instead of
being content to receive live poultry from
the Wet and sell wholesale at prices
fixed by the association, established Ilk
own slaughter house and also four re
tail stores In addition to his wholesale
shop In Wet Washington .Market. He
was the chief witness against the trust
In the trials that resulted In thllteen convictions.
Having started the fight which opened
TO BAR ARMED SHIPS
AND WARN V0YAGKI.S
SHAKEUP IN
BRITISH WAR
OFFICE NEAR
i
Radical Chanres Expected
as Prelude to a More Vig
orous Campaign. '
CONGRESS BENT ON MILITIA
EXPANSION IN DEFIANCE OF
ALL EXPERTS' WARNINGS
RUMOR AGAIN SAYS
KITCHENER WILL (iO
Wasiumito.m. Feb. 12. The State
Department has lecelved from Ambas
sador Hemid at Berlin tho fu.l text of
licTiiiuiiv' memorandum relating to her
the New York market to more than one , intention nfler Match 1 to muck all
)ZV'r: ! T.'' armed enemy merchantmen without
favors from an auction company that
...it. wrKamzeii nere. lie obtained car
loud without having to go to the auc
tion company and bulled the market.
Then, accotding to his rivals, he forced
the small retailers to buy of him at an
advance on the market prices, lis then,
hi competitors alleged, sold chickens at
his retail stole at low prices, which
drove his rivals out of business. They
accused him In effect of helng a "poultry
trust' all by himself nnd of ruining
them.
In the light of what the police now
know nl,)ut the Haff murder a notice
that he received nnd posted In hi office
on March 20. 19H, gains new slgnltl
ennce. It read :
"Haff Is under the ban bv the New
York Huyers Association and by the Live
Poultry Dealers Association."
Under this notice Han wrote:
"I have been asked to give up mv
four distributing market. I refused
their demand, have not lost courage and
will tight to a finish."
MiinlnK" Cm-Is I'ro.nl.ed.
On the night of the murder. Novem
ber 24. I'M I, the police and District At
torney Whitman made up their minds
that It was the icsult of a trade con
spiracy. Nothing has dcveloned in the
wearisome search that started that night
chauffeur, Frank Ferrara, there was
J 1 DO In hand before ho started the
. th IMn.ird Monagltan, assistant man- )n)Wn touring car on It excursion from
of 'h chili. I went to me ' Harlem to West Washington Market.
Mftiue immune ini msm. ""; ( and sinu more in the nn.u division. To
there a I'l'le after midnight. I found ,,u.0 ,n,,r ,,, wno Mti Ur.eo $1.S50
the p'.a.-e to be a rooming house ion
ilu-ttd bv a woman.
Wc to'.d the woman the name of the
trin and she led us to his room on the
ulrJ floor
We were astounded when we saw
the la out of thing. The llrst thing
t attracted my attention was the
hottlM. and when we examined them
c'.ertly c found they comprised what
appeared to he ' a" complete- chemical
.aBOTator.
T''e bottle labelled cyanide contained
t'out two ouncm nnd the others were
mip'y or partly filled.
I que tioned the woman owner, who
e.ntd 'o l.e a very nice worn m. and
ol.l me the occupant of the room Inneirtlnneil vesterdav bv New Yolk lie
left 'lie hu ldlng alsiut 11 o'clock Wednes- tectlves a to the relation between the.
inurdem, but he
ilii' r s'", the night before the iMtiquei,
arn nevir tetuined.
"She told me that about noon on
Wrrinetd.iv the nvin left the looming
rc-i.e mrr ng a black bag. She said he
iril uier In the afternoon without
' ; m5 She told pa the mm teemed
' -oj-t and a'-te.l oddly Wednesday
' Police In l.e Untiles,
Mi u' everything In Crones room
1 :f punctiliously lnbelll and the
fi s i) Is oKservtd; the bottles, booke
i'' Jr" J:lIr .!h' opinio... A'hlKh offlctal
nui jestenlay that when the authori
ties were able to lay all the known
fact before the public they would vrove
".mazing."
The uatti-.e of the "emergency" which
required the elimination of Haff and
which was discussed by twenty-five of
the consplratois the Joy before the mur
der Is known to the police, but could not
he publicly Illuminated yesterdav. It
was recalled, however, that llaff hn.i
suits pending against twenty-five men
In the poultry trnde, most tf them
"kosher kll'er." On the day he was
killed he was to havu jmlnled oi.tv.to
n process seiver a nmri who owed idtn
money and for whom ho had obtained a
summons, un the same dav he was to
have signed an fflilavlt charging per
Juty against a "kosher k"Ier" whom
he clanged with giving false evidence
In a lawsuit
In trie coiitfe uf the earlv Han In
vestigation by the District Attorney Joe
Cohen, known as chief of the chicken
handlers, and his brother duke were nr
rested on a charge of having assaulted
A. T Pearson, u fliend of' Riff. They
were ld in the extraordinary ball of
t2.,00n each, which was reduced to 115,-
i.ner trie Irotheis Here released
was awarded.
These were the payment a attested
by Arcolla and Keirara eterday In an
other instalment of their serial confes
sion. They account for all of the t4.200,
which was the entire fund ii known to
these two men. The police seem to
have reason for a suspicion that tho
purse as originally made up amounted
to SS.OOO, and that SUU was kept out
of I recti's hands as a reserve to pro
vide for protection of the conspiring cn-
I picked out sis or more different I ,,mi, f itarf.'
bottles labelled poison. Among these. T1 1)0iic,. djcve that the IS Oil was
li-Mls were ones which read: 'Arsenic.' . p,1Pnt i.t ear in IihvIik Oreco hWelf
Cj.initle of ootafcstum, mercuious nil-1 utlU-J In the Harlem "murder i-table,"
r.t and "opi-er salts. and perhaps In the murder of liaeinnu
Lomonte. who was a friend of several of
the assassins concerned In the de.ah of
Baff. For the murder of l.oinonte
Antonio Iinnelezzo Is waiting his turn In
Ihe elertrlc chair at Sing Sing. He was
1 ei:
If
I.amonte and !iJ.T
vvoludu't say a wold,
Suspect lllsmpiirnrs
Krom I'ollce Headiiuarter here ho.'
gone ,i request to the police or otn-r'
cities to arrcrt a certain man who In
the confessions of Arcolla and Cerrara is
represented as having stove I near Wet
Washington Market when the murder
gang arrived to kill Haff and said to
them. "1 know what you're after; make
a good "ob of It." This man Is wanted
.. film nnr llllZtT II I I 111" l-Ull-Mlll ils. 3
1. i we-c taken l.y tire ponce. , "", hkin. . from ,t,e
ines- 'ge ordering the arrest 0 ,' ,.. '.... n .n.
warning. As forecast. Ocrmany In the
mcinorandum takes the position that
armed merchantmen of a belligerent
Tower are to be regarded as auxiliary
ships of war. -A similar memorandum
from the Austrian Oovernhient U be
lug forwarded to Washington by Am
bassador l'enfle'd nt Vienna.
The position of the l.'nlled States re
garding the Teutonic iirogmmme will be
announced next week. It I expected,
officials uf the State Department pri
vately are admitting that whichever
course ihe l'resldent decides to take the
result Is certain to lead to complica
tion. Informally the diplomatic repie5enta
tives here of the Kntentn l'oweis at
ready have given the State Department
to understand that acquiescence by the
1'nlted States In the contention of tier
man) that she bus the right to ngurd
armed merchant ships as war vessels
will bring forth :i vigorous protest.
There is even talk tunung the Entente
chancelleries heie ofN trade reprisals
against the American tloverume.it.
Killed Sanvtlon of I . .
On the other hand, no sveret s made
of the fact In Oernmn elides mat the
German l'oielgn Otllce confidently ex
pects the United States to reverse It !
sltlon and admit the Justice of the Teu
tonic decree. This confidence, It I said,
Is based not only on the fact that the
l'nlted States already has urged by ln-
dtntlce notes to the Kntente Powers that
their veseels of commerce be disarmed,
but has given notice of th fact In these
same communication that the American
Oovr nnwnt wrt Tmrsrraerltir the-rta-blllty
of changing Its rubs and refusing
armed merchant ships th port privileges
EXPERT VIEWS ON MILITIA PLAN.
Ex-Secretary of War Elihu Root Ail effective army must be built
up on the principle of nationul control. This cun never be attained by
developinjr forty-clf-ht different bodies: under officers appointed by
forty-ciirht different Governor, and up to the time ut war, under the
direction of forty-eight different commanders in chief.
Brie-Gen. A. L. Mills, Chief of the Division of Militia Affairs,
on the defects of Ihe National Guard A certain decree of inefficiency
in methods of administration and trninini;; luck of uniform and effi
cient .standard of physical examination; low nttendunce at assemblies
for drill inRtruclion; luck of cooperation between the States; lack of
uniformity in the military codes of the several State'', no two of which
are alike, and lack of cure of Federal property.
Major-Gen. Leonard Wood The militia has done all men and olTi
cers enn do under a rotten system. I am not criticising them at all.
The militia has 1 ."0,000 officers nnd men enrolled, but when I say they
can turn out 00,000 men in fairly good condition I think 1 have slated
the limit. You might turn out more, but they would be untrained and
of little value.
Ex-Secretary uf War Henry L. Stimton Under the Federal Con
stitution, the National Guard is primarily a State force instead of a
national reserve, and I do not believe that any effective national citi
zens' army can he created out of a force dominated by forty-eight
sovereignties. History and statistics show this beyond peradventurc.
Ex-Secretary of War Lindley M. Garrison Under such a system
militia mobilization for war will again be attended with confusion,
delay and embarrassments, and campaigns will probably be attended
with disaster.
Tilt! MliS printed lt Tuewlsy tslilej
despatch from its correspondent In londiin
stating that radical disuses In the War
Ofttre nere being considered and that l.nrd
Kllrlirner might realm. An official denial
of the rumor that laird Kitchener would
resign na Issued In Louden on Hie follow
ing day. The following drtpatrli. further
ronflrmlng lies report, was received from
TUK Nl'N't London ctirrcMindeiit jester,
day morning, urtrr being held up for al
most lHent-fnur hours by the enor.
.tt'fiul nblr DtsiMt'i I" Tilt. Si
UiNPOV, Keb. 11, C..10 1'. M, (delayed
by tensor). Tho coriespoudent of 1 HE
SfN hears from a source of the very
highest authority that Important changes
affecting the administrative control of
tho Wtir Office and having great Influ
ence on the more vigorous piosecution;
of ihe war during the summer campaign
u-lll ifiii t.ln.M ultliln a few dav. The
irxtxsxiffiQ GERMAN SHIPS, .ITALIANS IN FIRST
Although the uiiior has not .vet crys
tallized Into anything definite the facts
are well known ill political circle do'o
to the Cabinet.
A straw showing whnh way the wmJ ,
blow I the growing importance of the
dutle which Sir William Itobertson. new '
chief of the tteneral Staff, Is undertak
ingduties which have hlthetto been t
exclusively in the hands of Lord
Kitchener.
Next week Parliament will meet, and
as an outcome of pertinent uuestluus
whli are to bo put interesting revela
tions ale expected and also the an
nouncement of Important chargt. An
Influential position proKibly will be
found for I-ord Deiby. It Is significant
In till connection that Ixird Kitchener
did not attend yesterday's war council,
which was the biggest on record. In-
Jsi'iiiite Committee Turns In
Phil tslniri" Kxiiciiiiicnt
I'm Aid.
OFFICIAL CIIAUACTKi;
F01I SHIMKJi CAMPS
Scheme Offered as ;i Com
promise for Continental
Army Propositi.
TO (ilVK 3I0XKV KOI.'
THE LXSTIiTCTlOX
lloiie Mill Not ns Sweeping
as the National Cuanl
WanK
INTERNED, ESCAPE BALKAN ENCOUNTER
' i
Dili' Vi'sM'l Diclips From llui'
n Avros, Another I'phii
Chilean Port.
11KAZI I. HALTS Til I III)
Spieml f Jlle Despatch In Tin. St"
I'.fENOs Ati.es. I'eb. 12. Tan in-
ludlng nearly all of the most proml- i ,eriled Ret man steamship tscapfd from
neiit t lenerals. !
Tboe behind the svene say that an
is not perfect harmon between the Wur
Otllce. and the Admiralty and that therein
Is tu lie found one of the reasons for
the coming ciiatufes. The dispute oyer
Thev"nifol of ill,- air service, which
finally resulted in n viitory for thu War
O.llco. created mucn iiuterni-s
South Anierlctm port. to-day and are
now at sea, Mipplled. according to cur
lent r-ports, with ample quantities of
coai bv Hermans In South America.
""T-Tfrcf vblciie or tn'j VUtTO'e behind
th.- escapes . larking, but It Is pre
Mitoed here that the vessels wi.l attempt
shies ami after
. ..1.....1.. ........A.i I ...... ,inh.ir,Bi.i u Iiih.. i'.tr,.,.r is one
" r. :y ""7. . T.'. .,.,,., ..V," " : .;hV. ,i romantic lull, lulu other lier.n,
standing go eveu'furt'her and flatly Insist 1 military history, rose from the ranks i.ig equipped vv.ll b u-'d for com
nt out.
" nu' JO vnrs old
Trf,..th f.,. .l.rtt i.,,.l,v Ivi r. in' lied .eviueute iuiki .""
to f -n-iv wore a darl; suit, light
c .j o ereo.it, niiite turned down shirt
3i'.i a th , black .ribbon v InUsor
t
. . .. it... I..... It. .Iknv
. mai'Kei aim jisu hi ii.tii.-in. ..
LlJ. . - ..... ..n.,w,i lKt week on the tla.v of the
mil, icei . incur . ,,n
W...-IH about 145 Pounds., ciiauneurs ; ."."-nrd"r
lhe police were confident tterday that
h would be caught. Mim c. ins al
leged accompllceH have been 'otiiul and
are being watched by detectives.
... . .1111..! ,!... mi, nf lllOMt ll.in-
said to have coma ,,ere i ,iu'n the Invtetlg.ttlon said yesterday
he would not b surprueu it ihom oi in?
dozen ln-.Ue cotusplrtitom would be
rounded up In a tew nays atrt ueui ....
m, i.r .-ilontr w th Arcolla. tne gunman,
nlived by the Philadelphia , ., 1,1.. ..ntifederntes 111 the actual
.uu..sulit.illnl,.
There was a Jubilant celebration In
certain parts of West Washington .M.ir
ket on the day after IWiff died, accord-lir-
in infoni'atlon that reached the
aid Oapt. i).ti K-i Attorney' olllce y.ter.ia.
' I'h'cUer.s were uieinoute,,
f- . Iiir.s. and for thl' reason
d i at a was forwarded to thu 11. Louis
p'l e ii thu belief he may have re-
ti e t'iere lie at other times b.ts ' . , lon w
tt .jed by the Philadelphia . 'an( Mlt ,.0f.
'. kc i uii aim mo i.os .iiKi-ira luiiii-
tt 'hi.
' . nv i vestiBUtlon 1 learned the
n a . ,ifi.i was inclined lo mclal
1. and ivjs a follower of Kit ma t!o!d-
l I the I. W. W
Ci llr.
win ar. 1 piper- l:i C.ones's t comers. I'roni Harlem went frlemls of
IV rt..n principally vIth anarchy. . n,e gunmen In their Sunday clothea to
Tl-ew,,. volirii-s by Krn.ni (io'dman nartuhe of this largesse, ho many iter
i.'l a r umber of I. W. W. publications. Lons appeared to know the facts or tho
J' as rial bv emnlovees of tho Unl- crlmo that Its Inntlgators became
i sitv ltib kitchen Hint Crones was ' frightened and the celebration was BUd-
ir -.it t ,,r din- iisltig tnese tneones iieniy sioppe.i. , w,,.t- niinwml
h n eilow w Jiket.. tJieco vvns scolded for having allowed
JiK.... , a r tr , ,,e an excursion for a
t l.en.lstr, ttu.lei.l. ",e part of Little. Italy. The ihauf-
i,- i.-ernr.i .ald vestcrday that he
A e iier,.. me- Hi.,, of .sear.'h dis- 1 ffur. hernira, '
' . . 1,.,,-lnu. his ear loajled
civ I 'd.i' i rone w.ts a ttldt nt of a cor- lr"vnh'" "'., three were nlenty
rcontliif. -.urstf ,n clieniistry. A re- 1 wiiu e Zafiirano brothers l8" momn-.ii,
er'pi s.iow.,1 he had paid the Interna- jntci I Im thj Jf ,,s lack r .-fonnato. ies.
una . ie..i iiideii . School at Scranton ' ttav. iiut "ii in
ltd u a part of his tuition. His chem- '00l ln lh' 13chlnP' riT-oTjrs VV
l-'errnrn, the chaufTeur, added huge
chunks to his confession yesterday when
he learned that Joe Arcolla hud "come
all the way through." He sold the mur
det was carefully rehearred by all the
paitlclpants long before It was 'done. He
offeied to show- the vollce just how he
and the oilers staged the tragedy If
they would take him to the scene.
Held Without Hall.
.So the coffee colored Ki.it ear was
dllven over to West Washington .Market
lata yesterday afternoon. l-'errara
pointed out the exact snot where, ha
said, he had stopped It on the div of
Ihe murder nnd three other points to
which he shifted It In the course of his
ten minutes wait for the return of the
gunmen and the lookouts. A police
photographer mapped the machine r.nm
nil angles In these positions, with Ker-
rara sitting nt the wheel. He told the
)oiice that Oreco. In his desire to "hae
th. Jnh dnn we)!," went so far !r. tho
reheiirsnW as to note the time It took
for the gunmen to walk over to HafT's
office and back to the car.
He said that on the day fixed for the
murder (Steeo told the gting they would
have to do their work without fail, nt
Haff whs up io something, the nature of
which le-rari did not lenrn, Ten men
met 111 ti recti's saloon, said Kerrarn, and
all went from iinr.ni to the market, six
of them In the automobile with Per
rara. As the gunmen started toward
the place where they knew Haff would
be O recti's, parting Instructions were:
"Don't run when you shoot. Wnlk lo
the automobile."
KerraTa was held without bull bv u
Coroner yesterday on u charge of homi
cide. He hits i better education than
the gunman Arcolla. who learned nil he
knows of rending and wilting In the last
j few months In the Klmlra and Nnpanoch
si dimtira us coi.inrised retorts, test
tiit.rs ami nunitrous giats and metal
toi tamers
HMtivrn said they found four pur
t ane. iniule in two different names, In-lt'-atlng
t ron.s had used at lca."t one
fi ia
Mrs, Howard, the landlady at tho
h'.u.r ,,t s..) 1'iaiiie avenue, said
' 'mi was a good roomer ; thai ho
"' s p-ud a month In advance and
Irt'I fl V
Think l'l"t Theory llllil.
Piecing together Ihe stories of Arcolla.
Ferrari ar.d their friends with Informa
Hon given by others whose names have
o been revealed, the police and the men
of the District Attorney's ofllco are con
v need that limy were not far wrong In
he theses of the Haff killing that vvere
"pi . ted In November an.l December.
J They suspected then, ns they say
..r. ji. t..i,i .. Uii,.,i , ,i. nuvv. that tlie team or nan
bin .ii.iv H. iimnirr. uhv I,.. .1.1 i..- laid at the door of certain rivals
lau urn r. ,r fn work on the day ! ,,f uitf In the poultry business and of
l. . chicken pullers" thn men who unload
Ar.oig I,,. u, e In Ids room were iioultry nt HobrjUpti.
'ui i.irg mi, tilled with giincotton. mtll Haff started bis fight as an Inde-
'r.e of ttin ans, according to Dr. ltobert- ! - ,
tn ib lit extiiole, but tho others vvers "
i d laiigeroiiH, I
l'i ItubertMin has onlered the city'
tllemitf, ,lrtff , ,M,ceed with the fur-'
til"- miatls f iho soup, and tills will"
I'"' ti oinpl-ied befoio this afternoon,'
' 1 ii- mi mint of the polton will be
determined.
GERMANY DECORATES PAPEN.
Ilecslled Altnche liela Order of lied
KiiKlr, Fourth (lima,
Spectat Cahle tfipatclt to Tin: Stv,
Pakis, Feb. 12. Tho .Valla trays; "Hid
den In an obscure corner of th Herman
press Is a notice of the decoration of
(apt. von Faix-n, th tterman mllltnry
attache ut Washington, who w(h Capt.
Hoy-Kd, the naval attache, was re.
called at tho r-iuest of tho American
Uovrrntnent, Capt. von Pajieii receive,
tho Order of the Jled Hagle, fourth
claw."
that Count IlertistorlT has hem given to
understand by Secretsry Lansing mat
the American (lovernment had decided to
adopt the. C.erman vtewiwlnt.
This. Secretary Lansing said to-day. Is
n Inference wholly without foundation.
He Insisted that the communications to
the 1'ntetitn Powers could not be re
garded as committing the United States
to the stand that armed liners are aux
iliary ships of war and he denied he had
given the Herman Ambassador tu under
stand that such a policy was to be
adopted by this Government.
At the same time other olllcials of
the Department are more or less frankly
of the opinion that the tterman position
will be adopted. In that event the Statu
Department, on or before .March 1, will
warn American citizen not to travel on
armed vessels of any of the belligerents
and will notify sirt otllccrs in this
country to treat armed liners entering
American ports as ships of war.
Would llestrlcl Armefl Milps.
If this vvere done no armed merchant
vessel under penalty of being Interned
would be permitted to call at a l'nlted
States port oftener than once in three
months, and then for not more thun a
twenty-four hour stay, within which tlmo
It could only take on coal and provi
sions sulflclent to carry it to Its nearest
home port. Passengers would be pro
htblte.l from hoarding nuoh vessels.
Among the Hntente embassies the
prospect tf such action by the United
States Is generally regarded with ex
treme, concern, although olllcials of the
.State Department this afternoon tried
to create the Impression that at least
one or two of the I'ntentx diplomats
have admitted In conversations with Mr,
Lansing that, after all, the disarma
ment of merchant ships proposed by the
United States might prove more ad
vantagenus to Hrltlsh shipping than
otherwise.
The threat of reprisals Is not being
regarded with much seriousness by
American olllcials. While It Is admitted
that (treat llrltaln and her allies might
and probably would take the ground that
a change In the American rules would be
both unneutral and unfriendly. It Is said
that any attempt on their part to cripple
American trade would react to their
own disadvantage,
Without
Amerl
Hons,
would
while
Tor instance, mignt reruse to supply tier-' yuiing men
phnnt shins to handle the ccneral fnroii-n I
IN- P-ihrrnfeld,
Ali.ii'lv Aiistri.'ins
till Dlll'llrY.O, llllt Ml't'l
With HoptilM'.
I'.li, i:TTU; IMMINENT
tKNN v, via London, Feb i Italian
1 1 oops have fought their first battle In
tho H.ilkan. according to an official an
nouncement from the Austrian War
Cutlic, to-night.
The Italians in strong force attacked
Austrian positions on the heights west
V thiiiM.ToX. Feb. 1C. Now tna' Sec.
relary Harrison's continental army plan
has been virtually thrown out by Pres.
dent Wilson l.n-lon heie is 'being ft,
cussed upon tiiu militia. It si ems cer
tain that an expansion of tint National
CSuard l the only foini of leglslatloi
thai thu House will consent to by wa
ll .'lllfillir ' of taking the pla.o of tho Hurls. m plan
for a Federal ivs.rv..' army.
The most st.trtllni fealme uf the sit
uation Is that the House now scciiih ii
tent upon legislation vvlihli has h.e.i
condemned not only by Mr. Harrison but
by Kllhu 1'oot, former Secretary of War.
and by th- b. st e xpert opinion that ha 4
been summoned before the two commit,
tees of Congress. It was not ic.ill.ti-il
here, until the Harrison epis'ide empha
sized the point, how unanimously the ex
pert opinion has been In condeinnlng an
attempt to lely upon all expansion of
the militia to meet the military needs
of the country.
Practically the only experts w ho ha
tllged military development along th.
active!
iiiuat ion
ol Tirana, ten miles east of the Albanian
port of liuraz.su. toward which an Aus-M'tie have been in. n w!iu we..
, , , .,,i. .. ' Interested .n the inl.itla org.
WI..H ariuj ij iiii.Jiu-ii k, l. thcnr-clvvs
were It plllcil. It Is s lid. Till! SlS i ot I eeputidelil ...ukeil i l.
Austrian aviators have nought wotd to-day over ihe tt-stiniun.v .h.iv.i' i
that a large Italian force is concentrated . several eminent experts, and . oi .
near Durarxo and it is believed hem that , tutes a condemnation of the v r.v id.in
a decisive battle is Imminent ( which the Senate lead, is, vvitn tin- app .
Ilecent advices to the Austiian War enl acquiescence of the Pusiil'in
Ulllce. following e.-uller reports that th.t 1 now proceeding lo map out
. . .... .1.1.. 'IM...
anil knows me arniv- iiiunmnoij nldlnr
who lament that the war has not pro-
. .. i i,1,..m -..I- ,.r. 1 The two Vt'Se's are
llliceii a ...iiHiiri'ii .ii .-. . -- .... Vvie
i,n,...r.ii that he will nrove the missing , ,,i,,.i, ...... interned nt Huer.o .
----- .-- .. ... i . I . . ,-,.l.n ... . VIII
g-nliis. He stands tor merit anu mem nn(, h), Tllr,,;. interned at uie . ....' i .,. in,,.nde,l to sin render Dur.tzzo
alone. I nose w m. pmi.ii. r.-..... .... , In the s:nu. , ltim. ,. ti..!,,. i,.1Ve indicated thai
ttueiiee to gain jirouior.on lor tneir i v ... ' Italian reeiiforceineiits have been landed
of Magel.aii. i at Avlon i and moved northward to i
ltolh ves-els gut aw.iv ti.touj.it - , ii,lr:,zz,,. i-upular indignation ngalnt
..(...I. ...... i, ti. iti. lets . . . ' . . .. .
same lue. i'lr tile .iecis-.ua iu sui render an uui umuen.
friends have since pis a.lvent in ttie war
Olllce been shown the door. If thel Is
merit he does not cale w bethel It Is
exhibited by all officer barely 3u or by
.... ..1.1 (..initmillel
It Is known that an important con-1
feience was held vesterdio ut the Ad-
miralty in refetence to tne aeriat ut
fences of Ixmdon. The Ki'rnlrift .Stolid
m,f In Its comment on this, stating that
the novernmcnt conteinpiaies me ap
of the
.1,. n.rt authorities of Hunos .iii.inla t.. the Atistrl.ins is believed toi"'
,n ,1,P ,'r! " .," re.pectlvelv haw for- the Italian Hencral Statf toi '."t. afte ye.,,.,
Ayi.s and Punt.. Arenas res! eciiv i rtelfoi(. mM x, in:in , xp( dltlonary War Department
against the
VI r. It. nil's V lew v,
Ul.e uf tne must elfttiv. ' .
exposing the futility of att. mptin
rely un the militia is contained i i a I.
ttr recentle '.viitlen by I'.llhu Hoot M
.if experienr-e In tin
tii.I ii. the Scn.iti. -:
the m i . .mpeici.i
pi oblem.-. Ilclu a .
regarded as u:
"til'l'.nls ,,f a i.i.
Ills v lew
"III mv v 1. v. .;
- ,.!!'' lo ..ill. uf dc. I
and s.nd that the macniiier i fou-fs and unlet- an atta.
e's was deteriorating .a in" "'-, Atistiiau invau. rs.
.t..n,...h luck r n -. To rem- Tl . War Mile reported no other ."i
temmetit tlunimh Ian. "' ...... uU. ,-,..,., .. luikatis. Put indicated
.. ... .1,1m enlldit on tlie cuilllli.il'... 7.. .. ...a. .1... v.. I. i:u.,.l ,i..lt I,.'.. .
" . , .. Vllu...r l ,-li.inr. of1'"-' ' ' ... .. ... the engines In a , lively e.iK.igeineiiis on ,. ..nr.
poiiiwueiu ... - . for i-rm.siu" - ... .. Italian tioi.. ndeipiate muy im nation u ueieiic.
aerial fores, sa d hat he names en- . un .n-umlslng to tetum to po. t Italian . ,01... ltal,an j mic.' attempt would inevitably ,,,
toned in connec Ion ' l,h " low ' ' a..ie.U. ( detacrneuts we,., repulsed.' sa.d the 1 the f dluie of the w hoi. niove,.,t .
''"Ti'ln rrbml. Accepting the l')-' ' ,,, rt, gt e ' "tllclal stateni.nl. "The Au-trlans the waste f ..Ii cnngy and clloi. .
Lnr.1 of the, Pr v S'' -.lid f l.otd -e ! authorities uf b. l. vor MV . , f ......e,, ,.,, , ,..
1-irt l ord of the d-l thH desired permission . . ' . I tienMi northwest of Tarno)..!. but the
i u. lior, 'coaled and left Port. Ne tther f the in u .,.,,.,, Ihi ,,,,D e!c
t . .....irne.l. I IIS - '" ...........1 .i,,,,,,- ,1. nll.t
i.i ...... ..i.. ' If emit lilies. the liew l.a " .'" . , ., ...... iiiim.i .j.t.--, ,i,i... ...- .........
...'.'." ......... i ut..i u.i,h ,..i..,i,i. .' renot led that bom sun" "y - ' "(in til.. Italian front there have been
.Mlllisier l.- ." u- "''-' ''.''V '."'' "'. :.',, ,l with food l.ll.l COJl "' ,r,Mrv ,.n,h,t ,,..rlieldnrlv oil . .,....,. ,
It is consineieii in,., tui'i ..rr.irtH uf i icriiiaiis . ' ' .: i"""' '
ine i-uii.u iiuiii ...-.ii i ii.-.-i. ..iiriimiii ratc.siate
troops eotnitiered the enemy s positions ..,, tjnil, or t a they i. i.
and captured seventy-tluee Alpinists as , lnst .ei'ul .eivlie by' tr.ilnliu
wen as tniec maciiiiie suns ,,r ..... , .... ..,,
"rhe Nat. .i..il Huard tie piini .
Stale 1 1 oops lut State purp..-. ... and t n
lllUsl continue .. lie "-.I. I'll. ttu.Ve
raise them and to train t!i."u ml tu
illi. i iv '. . w ltl t .11- ...
nil tile Till pin
i.i L-attlng tu sea, tie
Istratlvo powers, t Is consldereii tn.il supi'ii- """ . ..rfort
Ihe iippolntment nf .. man of military joj as ; " ; fh "
mid naval experience, such as Lord lur. and m I uni.v '"
Sydei'l.a.n. would be more satisfactory ' While H' h""'c'1 ), ,
to the military and naval services Wc were eucei-.u ... n -- - ( i) t,)M wen as mice inaviiue h..us elemtiits ..r inil.taiy seivii,- a gieit
,,nder,taivl that the whole uuestlon of I patches from 'attempt b th- , , .,n J 'jTT'n vcrrr C "'"r of "unK A",,vi''il ' '" "'''
the creation of the Ministry of Aviation , failure of a s.m ia r ' ,ot llltnled IhuTOS OUST COSSUhS. President may tu... .flic -.:.s-
was considered at yesterday's war voun- lieiinati !,t',;''w"'' ' pursued dine- , able nvn lo I- at .nt. ' ..:!',. is ,u i
ell. It Is nNo propoed to uppnlnt 11 1 at Lira "" '',. ..,, t4,,i winch : ;reel. 1.1..I Itiiiiiiiulnii sent rrimi ' 11.1l.on.1l ai mv Th. . Ii,..i..vi. t
strong .ommltlee of experts to assisi the eiit tacli. s .rnm ;, 1 ,, lKVtPll for
new Minister In Inaugurating a mm o , succeeded. "' "" '"''', ,,,,. l,lt, MoimMlr ll s
rigorous air policy
The emphnsiH laid on Sir William Hob-
iu younger
""1. , a Pier for Ihe ouuiose of tak-
Ing on a supply f .lriiiUiii x-.ie .
i un sc iuri . .L'i
I troops, w uii oil).
Atiii'vs. Feb. 12. The liumanlan and eight dllT'ien' i
Tlie fltieli coiKiils at Monastlr hive been
u' 1 t,.,llt,. fur v.iii mi. .. lie lln. IIi.i.rr.inu mill Hill-
.. ... . Itlo.v .III KTI'.lll .- .- ... ........
erlson's Indifference to tlie age or nis v.-ssei. ' .tWr turneil and gnrians. a.orillns tt. the Pufej..
commanders In the above cable dispatch , tne short ti 1 a' ..This n. an eve'.t..if gie.it impot-
Is perhaps significant In view of recent made for in. I lienublka and I tame." k.ivs the 'of,... "It teuii.ies
criticisms of Ixvrd Kitchener fur his ap- i lie ' . ...ff,. WPr,. ,, ih.'lmore than a protest I'he Skouloudls
iirbor on gilird and when the Asun- Hnverntneiit pietcnds that Hie incisure
the b.lsW fu- .level. I
bile u.'iti.'li.il .inr.
IllVe
I pp.
11.,- ,
iH.'
.1 tisll
srntteeftl
pal out lack of confidence
nun.
In the most violent recent attack on
th" War Secretary In the N'orthcllffe
press tnai i.iiei. iuk ... ni- ., .w.i..
flrspnfcn on January is iiniii.i nu
following paragraph
"laird Kitchener belongs lo a position
that goes back a long, long time. I Il
ls older than half the Henerals who
have accomplished great things. At the
time of Khartum he chose young men
for every possible post, yet not until the
arrival of Sir William Hobettsnii did
........ iur,us,. was mat
. lill, o . n., l!.,ri,l i UN
. u...- ... halt ner. -
mid no
and the
Secretary In tile Northcllffe . snois ,.. . ., , tlleso warn- neutral runsuls at Monastlr.
at appearing in the may , " 1 ' , the two Urazlllan shlpt mure, this city has not the
o nened lire with projectiles. Thereupon for Itum.in.a as foi us
5pfl'. ....... l., ..nnl.e.1. on being over- -
mlfest tired blank ' .s a general one, directed against all
iiiiii.ii . ..in.!. i.-., i. , in.. ..... .... ...... .
Further-
not tile same interest
Ing
'L her commander e,xplal..e,l that
he hid had no Intention of escaping.
Tlie vcecl was brought back tu the I,I.,l,er of Mfii Htignued In
h irbor and the C.ov crnnient Ins begun
nan, ,;".;,-,. V.lviin. it lliirnrii.
an Investigation. i
Pvllis, Feb. 1J A despatch fiom
Itahrenfelil, I'oruie'ly Hie Luxor, Home says that, according to the Im-
AUSTRIAN FORCE 30.000.
. - i mm,,, It Lhreulelil, lurui'- ... ... iiuiue mji. .ii.... n'"i i. " .'i'
bout American food supplies, there begin a retirement of the vener- 1 ' sl, HIlM imut ,.,, ,.i respondent of Ihe Mm .v,i-,'o.
can clothing and American muni- nbles from the War Office whose posl- 'V' 'lie iMglanil. in 1 St'.".. The ;,. ,. siieugth of the Austrian force
these officials point out. the Allies tlon had been iindisputci after Kltihcner "',,,,,, formerly the Fte'ibiiig, regis. Mmv matching on I'ur.uzu is estimated
1... considerably embarrassed, urd cam., on the scene. Like most men of j n,r','":n, , ). was built at West ut 30,0(in men
It Is admitted that Ureal nrltalp, 1 advanced years lie has begun to despise ( IV ,..Vi,.iol, l.'i'igland. Ill If"". Tile stin- The re' ul the Invail ng ai my. the col -
,, , .. . U....... ,i,-
trade of the United States, the elTect of, H0UgE 1AUDS WHSON POLICY. I ij;'" She was built at Il.imbuig
biich ii course might lead tn the enact- ! i vii
nient by Congress of retaliatory meas-1 , ' -
clou is n vessel of 3,01 S Ions, owned by ivspnudeiit sa.vs. is engaged In guarding
I riilili.iL'eiiieiu .if Ihn tTiilversltv
L h s ijci tills wiirnliig :
T " lull management calls Ihn ul
' ' oi of ih-i giiesiti at the banquet
' Ai 1 lutliup Mundelein of Ihn ad
.i.ati i n of liuuieillalely procurlne
" -i atltntluj,.
T s 'iiirniiig was issued In vlttw of
'.a'. ,ii"nts of physirlmH that nisenlcal
f'oiitlimeil on Truth J'aiir,
JSi"'l,sBI FI.ORIIIA ,TI., Ill T.M.
SOrtB Vntltk Inn CLaau4 rufftM llll 11
. t "Ji't iix . ui luvai v4 wutv) (" m w mt ,
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SEVEN SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS:
FIRST Gtnernl Nrwi . 12 I
SECOND Snorting Ktnntli, Automobilei 6
THIRD Society, Drami, Muiic, ScliooU
FOURTH Pictorial Msgtiine
FIFTH Lithogrvure Supplement, Art
SIXTH Special Fenturca. Failiioru, Booki. Queries, Clieia ....
SEVENTH I'orrign, Real Enatf, Gardeni, Poultry, Financill, Problem! .
Paces.
18
8
4
8
12
8
Total
58
RtaJtrs tt neicsJealtri itha io ml reca'M all tf ihts ittlitnt Ulll enr t fteot
tn "The San" h netlfylni Ikt PuilkcUon Dipartmtnl tt tntt hy At phtm
(2200 Bukmtn) iina mlulnt Kttloni ulll It promptly Jtrwardd tf pottlblt.
ures such as an embargo un war sup- I !
plies.
liissemnil Nee l.tninlim,
M, .lusser.ind. the French Ambassador,
called on Secretary Uinelng to-day mid
discussed the situation with him. H Is
denied, however, that he presented a for
I mal reply from his Uovernment to tho
1 American disarmament proposals,
Actiulesccnco ny tho ITnlted Slates n
Oermany's contention and action by this
Uovernment in refusing ordinary port
privileges to armed merchant shins would
be unneutral, Kntente circles dei'lare, for
the reason that any change In the
American jiw which would follow along
this lino would act directly against Ihe
Interest of thn Allies. They 'Insist that
It Is not tho duly of tho American (lovern
ment or any other neutral Power to nt
tempt to equalize, by adopting new prin
ciples and changing IIh laws, the disad
vantages which Herman submarines ex
perience In raiding enemy commerce.
International law, they contend, al
ways bus maintained the right of the
merchant ships of a belligerent Power
to carry defensive armament. The
United HtatcB Bt Ihe very outset of tho
war served notice that It would stand
by thin right. The fact that the devel-
CWInurd on Second Payt.
Will lie Vindicated.
Slircial CaM Krtiiteh to Tur. Si v
MOVIE'S KAISER CENSORED.
the country behind th" invading troops.
Consul's llcpnrlllre I ne pin I ned.
Pvnis, Feb. 12. The Uieelt Consul sent
away fi tun MutiuMir arrived with Ins
family at Flnnnn. Ilfteen miles smith-
east of Monastlr. last Thursday, nevoid.
nlburlt,v ,
' ' t ff. ' 1 1 C .11 ,i llltl. ..' .i ,
on tne i.ii.'i. ul' i.,it!.u.ii cun: ... T ,
.-.ill nev.'i b" ..liaiiicil by ilee.oji
forty-eight dil'lVt nt lu hr. uiiil.i ulll t
ai'pulnt.'d b fu iv-.iiii ii rirrent ti,.
ernors and up tu the tune of w n- undui
thu dlie.'l'uii of llilt.v -elgiil oiii'erent
rnnim.uiders iu . lib f
"I'liLs cliaiacter'.-ti.- uf lh. Na, ,,n .
Huard ...nnot is changed . . pi t
.imendlng ihe Cuii..iutiuii uf tin i e i.
States, win. Il it' practical.:. w..iiul
U'lire nmti.v .vears, nnd If lluit wcrt d".
the tcsult would simply be inn t i i
velop all ntliiy upon the Nation. il liu.nd
but to destroy the N.itluiiai Uuanl and
tu develop ..n in in:- .hi .i i eiilinl. d '
ferent basis.
"It seeliis pe Me tlv .1. ir to in., lot
an elfuit in th'- ihiecti'.ii uf .levt'linmu
the National Huard Int.. the r. ipiiie i
national amy of ibfenee will n. woi-.-than
throwi away l.ecau'-e it vv.'l nuli
Hi the iii,.s.aiiinge uf Hie vvliule cifui'i
Slliglllailv riiuugh, Lliliu 11" t. "
g.uil.d us une uf tlie ablest Se. r. i.u u
of War In.' lirpuhlic.in pail w'
is louud voicing In thin statement ,.
iictlv the vliws of Mr 'i.i' i-.i'
l.usnus, Feb. 1. Cnl II, M. House, ill ii,lfillinrr lo sirrer nt llnnila i,, u II. ivas despatch fiom Salonici. I'." wrote tu President d-.". and t...
an Interview printtsl In the Hutuhtu , ,,. nllr,. The despatch says th. reason for his him Hut the enactment ul t."' l'i..,...-
T'mt's, says that President Wllwon departure with Ins staff ftom Monastlr . inilillu piugramuie in lo- pi" ; f '
nolli'V. "so far n it concerns America,, rMil.-vli'-t.rniA. Feb. 12 -Th" Ueiinan ,',.,.,.,..,
has been fully Justified." Kaiser and Field Marshal von llinileli-
"Let mo tell .von," the Piesl.lent's , ij,,r, h,iled t" ls stars nf the motion 4ljc.c
frleml continued, "the day will certainly ntotnre "cist" at the l-nestnui rureei mniws
come when his iwllcy In regard to tho(iM.rii House, havo terminated their en-
war will ne uuHoiuteiy viiiiiic.utsi. . gagemcnts.
Col. Houmi also refers to "the re,-1 The Penti" iv.tnt.i
State Hoaid of
UUI. ..WM-"' ....-v. ,11
inarkable rcttult attained by President I rensors have cut Heventy-llve feet of
.. ..--I ii... .. ...... I.... Hi.. l.'ml.eror "Clfts.l
W ison inniiiKii oi" ...-mv..ii in.in-,, no. , urn sii'iiun. " ' . ... , . , ihe tii-Ht Miilnir frost on Mars for
....i.. r,,r tl... henelli of the Foiled States. 1 ., ,..d alls, el initiated ilctures "with1 to be tlie in si spi uik irosr on viars rot
Miinent il aim would ." I 'lfir
without mv r.M'il tu mi'. .l.ii in I
NORTH POLE" MELTS. . ZtXl ' "" ' '
It has been puillt.il Ulll unit
III., greatest ilrawb u-l.s tu mi plan fu
the development of mlllti.i niln an n -".illlz.ltlon
t" take the plil of I Fed
lllfl Vppenrs llnir Wit 'I'liroiiKli
II, njs I'lnuNliirT.
.t s Nni.'i.r..s, Fell 12. vvh it appears
.MJIiiskl, Ihincer, Still n Prlsoiier
Siifctal Calit Dttpatrh to Tut Scs
' I'AIUS. Feb. i:. Tilt
Tub Sl'N learns that the
Nljlliskl, the Itusshin danc
released by tit" Aiistrians
allowed to visit the Unlled States In pI(1l,rH strict neutrality
..nilrelv unfiiundcil. i
only for the bcnetlt of the Fulled States, 1 ,,,,,1 alisi ellininaie.i pic ures ' '' ' ' " i .,K' j,,,t .,. el e .V. ,1 In
,,t ,iU for lhat of ,e whole ton,,., vu,, ..bnlenhuia e ft X
I cgUs or linniora. or eK-es by ',f , he I
Ill n P...o,.r. j tend to debaso or corrimi u.e pun.ic .... ''., ' , m,tlul
t m The Kcv morals. ,.,,. ... .... nrocess of melting, a l ift having ap-
correspondent of L J'hirg nie er ultte a . 'ear In ti e b'''-'''' ""'f " througl. II. which Is ,.,,,.,. . Com.iu.
io report that M. p "ure bit Ihe "closo' ups" have wldenln-.' '. hlc I. pmij-eiwi with oulll .., c avallabb
"J..10 ' Irlot. the board eaerclsed what It - m, , , ,,,', ti.ll.er
..r.l leneive Is I ..I I 11 ..intuit be i.i'l'i
i.pon unt.l aftci w.u ha- I" t. i l i.i'
l.-clai ed
If Japan should ilireaii ! ..i n .
of Mexico It would be ,i pel' '.. -!
lor Ihe l'nlted States, as well .n M x
lo have ."I llile.lUllle fill. I' III. .hi' i
even l.inllgll w.ll snuuiu ii.ii ue or,
nstlllltllin li'e mil I
markings
I
. ........ .... Western North t'ar.Hlns "The Land of the i AllifsTA M'l.CIAI-I HIS I'. V, inr,
RTRA COMPAHT.MKNT CABS OI'ER- , ,,." lunrlinl In Ihrmigh Drawing rnoni ,vlkn and Aiikiihi. vU StU'THIIH.V HAM,-
leeplng cr New vnrn tn Aslievllle via 'WAY Draw lug aim siaieumiii sleeping isirs. .
HOUTHHHN ItAH.W'AY. Uellglitful elliimte. i Coiiui.irtiii'iil car dallv In Augusln, Ulnltig
Kl -stint holfla. N. V. OflUe, 2l r'lflb Ava. 1 rsr rervhe N. V UllUa. ill r'Uth Ava. i
Att. A-
ATKION "Kl.OHIDASI'KCIAl," TO PAI.M
BKARII and Knit Coast Points nally. 3 other
trains dally. Atlantic Coaat Lint, 111! U'way.
At. I
llrn vv iiii.'h ,
II m.,,1 "lacltoil on Hie I 1 1
in a ,ii I. in. uf win HI I' II ,1
have Its own ulll. ei -, as ev ipl Hi
l.y expiT'enoe ill lie Sp.uos Vinciu u
vvnr, Is another distill hmg 1 ature if
the situation
The objectloiie wete i i il n
!
I
