REAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO .
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
66th YEAR
voh:mk ue
m; 11 licit 4:1
RICHMOND, VA., SUNDAY,
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
FIFTY-EIGHT PAGES.
N.r;,,sf,:u ?RAIN.
PRICE, FIVE CENTS
THE REPORTS
SENT TO SENATE
Educators Widely Differ as to
Reasons for Recent Book
Adoption.
MINORITY STANDS OUT FIRMLY
Unwilling to Saddle on Tax
payers Burden of Unneces
sary Changes.
After throo long grilling sessions
yesterday, morning, afternoon and
night, tho Stato Board of Education
finally adopted Ha answer to Senate
lesolutlon No. 10, and the answer will
be presented to the Senate to-morrow
morning, provided the clerks and
?stenographers, already weary with a
strenuous week, are able to copy the
report and properly arrange it for
presentation.
Thero are two minority reports, one
by the main minority, consisting of
Governor Stuart. Attorney-General f'ol
lard and State Superintendent Steames,
and the other by Dr. Southall Wilson,
who gave as his reason for a separate
report the fact that he has not been
on the board for any great l?-ngth of
time?In fact, was not a member when
the adoption was first considered, and
h?>nee felt that lie ought to explain
why he had voted as he did
no a hd sits vntii.
NKAKl.V MID.VKiHT
There were throo sessions on yes
terday, one beginning at noon, when
l?r. Wilson stated that he and other
members of the board who attended the
called meeting on Friday inornlug were
much disappointed that some of the
others were not present. He referred
to himself, Mr. W<\st ani> Colonel Ford,
who had expected the meeting.
The matter was amicably adjusted
when Stato Superintendent /Stcarnes
stated that he was compelled, or rather
felt himself compelled, to be absent
upon the call of Governor Stuart, who
called him to his otllce for a conference.
A record of the meeting, however, was
made, and th?* rf-asons for the post
ponement were stated In tho report.
The afternoon session began at 4
o'clock, and at this time Governor
Stuart was present. After the various
differences were discussed, the Gov
ernor announced that there was no
chance for the entire board to agree,
but that It would be necessary for the
two factions of tho board to make up
separate reports.
asks MAJOitrrr to r;o aickad,
I.IOAVIXG MINORITY TO IHSSKNT
At 6 o'clock Governor Stuart, At
torney-General Pollard and State Su
perintendent Steames retired, and af
ter a conference announced that it
would bo necessary for the minority
to submit Its report. The Attorney
General spoko for the minority, and
lie asked that th?! majority go ahead,
formulate and pass Its report, and that
then the minority would make tip Its
answer.
The meeting adjourned until 3
o'clock, when the majority returned,
read ar.d at once passed its report,
being the report of the board.
It differed In a number of essential
details from the proposed "com
promise" report of the subcommittee,
as all matters conceded by the ma
jority wore stricken out, and tho final
report of tho board expressed the mat
ter front the standpoint of the ma
jority, rather than from that of tho
board.
C)( considerable interest, following
the report of tho majority, was the
statement til at they reserved the right
to reply to the minority in whatever
report that section of the board might
bring In.
Attorney-General Pollard read tho
report of the minority, which was
couched in no uncertain terms as to
the reasons why tho three ex officio
members of tho board brought in the
report which they did. He, in voicing
tho expression of his colleagues, gave
as the chief reason the saving of
money to the taxpayers.
M I.YOIt IT Y ST A TE M10 XT
SAYS CHAXGI2S K.WVAIUIAXTED
Tho statements of Governor Stuart,
Attorney-General Pollard and Superin
tendent Steames shows that their atti
tude throughout the book adoption was
one of distinct opposition to all changes
In textbooks, except upon tho most
urgent considerations of economy tun!
merit. They claimed that an unneces
sary change In textbooks was an un
warranted tax on the people, just as
truly as If the General Assembly had
levied an unnecessary tax. They voted
for changes, however, whenever they
found substantial amounts could be
saved to the patrons.
They recited the fact that they acted
as a special committee on prices, nnd,
after many months of effort, all of tho
publishers declined to make reductions
except tho J3. F. Johnson Publishing
Company, of this city, who agreed to
make an average reduction of approxi
mately 10 per cent on all tho hooks
furnished by them amounting to nearly
one-half of thoso then in uso In the
public schools. The main light was
over the acceptance of this proposition.
Tho Governor, tho Attornoy-General
and the Stnto Superintendent Insisted
that, tho largo sum of money, variously
estimated at from $70,000 to $100,000,
i.tight to be saved to tho patrons of the
school:'.
CONTItOVKHSY WAS OVKH
JOIIXSOX AHITHMIOTICS
The educators on tho board claimed
that tho Johnson arithmetics ought not
to bo continuod in use, but tho minor
ity calted attention to tho fact that
thoso books havo glvon universal satis
faction in Virginia during the sevon
years pasaofl, and that. In responso to
?i letter sent out by tho hoard to tho
100-odd division superintendents of the
Stato asking their opinion concerning
tho arithmetic, only throo roplled that
th? books were unsatisfactory.
Attorney-General Pollard at the
maetlnf{ last night called attention to
(hQ foot that the Johnson arithmetic
40an?liiUQd JBogcyX
No Air of Gloom
at Foreign Office
Message on Lusilania From
Washington Subject of
Deliberations.
j ItKItUN, February 12 (via London).
?A message from Ambassador von
Bernstorff relating to the Lusltania
negotiations, which arrived yesterday,
was the subject of deliberations to-day
! between Dr. Alfred M. Zimmerman,
Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs,
nnd Count Montgelas, head of the
American section of tlio Foreign OfHcc,
and other experts on American affairs
] of tiie Foreign Oifleo. The message
was submitted to Or. Gottlieb von
Jagow, Secretary for Foreign Affairs,
j on his return from the headquarters
of the general staff this morning.
Officials of the Foreign Office and
others connected with tho government
were reticent about expressing an
opinion on Ambassador von Bernstorft's
message, but certainly no air of pes
.simiFm is noticeable about the Foreign
Office.
Dr. Zimmerman is credited with the
remark that the situation looks fairly
favorable.
WISHI.VHTOX KXl'FXTS
All'ROVAl, OF CIIA\?;KS
WASHINGTON*. February 12.?The
message from Count von Bernstorff b<*
ing considered by tho Berlin Foreign
Oflice is presumed hero to l>e that dis
patched by the ambassador several
days ago asking his government to
j approve slight changes in the wording
of its Lusltania proposals, so as to
put them Into a form that it has been
i declared by high officials would bring
| tho United States and Germany into
complete accord on the terms of final
settlement.
The general expectation here is that
the changes, made after extended con
ferences between the ambassador arid
: Secretary Lansing, will be approved.
CONFESSES STAMP THEFT
One of Tlirer .Men Arrenteil In Connec
tion With SI. I'nul Robbery
Implicate* Other*.
CHICAGO. February 3 2.?Confession
to the robbery of the internal revenue
office at St. Paul on January 6, when
stamps aggregating In value $050,000
i and 53.000 in cash were stolen from
the old Federal Building there, was
obtained to-day from one of tho three
men arrested with their wives here last
night.
I'eter Drautzburg, an operative of
tho Federal Secret Service, admitted
th?* confession, but would not say from
which of the prisoners It was obtained.
"One of the men has told everything
he knows and has implicated others,"
?said Drautzburs. "Two more arrests
aro expectcd "
It was reported that John J. Zeck,
a motorman, was the man who mad?
| the admissions. The other prisoners
! are Mrs. Zeck, Edward Leonard and
; liis wife, Julia: Michael Flanlgan, a
i saloonkeeper, and his wife, Catherine.
TO WAGE WAR ON DRINK
\riv fork C.'lfy Hon r it of llralth
Inaugurate* Tenipernnee
Crunnde.
: NEW YORK, February 12.?The city
board of health announced to-day the
inauguration of a temperance crusade.
The board has requested clergymen to
deliver temperance sermons on Sunday,
j February 20, which will be called "Tern
i peranco Sabbath." Meanwhile, unl
| formed police officers of the health
j squad and sanitary inspectors will dis
| tribute in ualoons and clubs through
i out the cltv pamphlets setting forth
the dangers of alcoholic Indulgence.
On Washington's birthday motion-pic
ture theaters will display films fur
nished by the board portraying "The
Curse of Drink and All Its Attendant
j Evils." February 23 is to be set aside
as "Croton Water Day." after the Cro
ton Reservoir, from which part of this
city's drinking water is obtained.
GET MEDALS FOR BRAVERY
McAdoo Announces Award to Five Sa
vniinnli Men Who ItcKcued Aviator
mid ra.ssenger From Sea.
WASHINGTON, February 12.?Secre
tary McAdoo to-day announced an
award of silver medals of honor to
Edward S. Waters, Henry Uuckeley,
George Dana, Furinan King and Solo
j mon Kaminisky, of Savannah, Ga., for
gallant conduct in rescuing two men
from drowning In the Atlantic Ocean
off the Georgia coast last June.
A. C. Beech, un aviator, and F. E.
Davis, a passenger, were making an
exhibition flight oft Tybee Island, when
their aeroplano became unmanageable
and dropped into tho sea, more thnn
two miles from shore. Tho five men
to whom the medals were awarded
resctied them after a long battle
' against the wind in a blinding rain
j storm. ,
| TO INSPECT PRISON CAMPS
J Herman*- AnUm That Corps of Americans
He Sent to Russia nt?d Western
Siberia.
WASHINGTON, February 12.?Ameri
can Ambassador Marye, at Potrograd,
has recommondcd, at the request of
German authorities, that an additional
corps of American relief administrators
bo sent to Russia and Western Siberia
to inspect prison camps of German and
Austrian soldiers there. Ills recom
mendation hns been taken up by tho
Stato Department and Red Cross of
ficials, It was learned to-day, but no
dofinito plan or decision has been
reached. Negotiations are in progress
with Russia.
Dr. Edward T. Dovine, professor of
social economy at Columbia University,
and director of the School of Philan
thropy, New York, probably will ho
placed In charge of tho work should
It bo decided upon.
TIIKOUCill SI.EEPER TO NEW ORI.RANS
leaving Richmond 11:15 P. M., Feb. 28, via
SOUTHERN RAILWAY for Mardl Grw
travel. -126.TO round txtu IPfcon* MXl ZQ
HOUSE DEBATES
EDUCATION BILL
Advocates of Compulsory School
Attendance Win Easy
Victory.
! "GERMANIZING," SAYS GORDON
Opponents Object to What They
Describe as Paternalism?Hud- j
j gins Wants School Inquiry. j
!
Advocates of compulsory education i
won an easy victory over their op
ponents* In the House of Delegates
yesterday, defeating by an overwhelm
ing majority Delegate "Walton's motion
to dismiss the Williams bill from th?v
calendar. At the end of an hour ofi
debate the Houso advanced the bill to
its third reading, and it will come up
on its passage to-morrow.
On the final vote on the motion tol
dismiss, only Delegate Gordon, of|
I?ulsa, and Delegate Walton voted in)
the affirmative. Several of the members,
who voted against dismissing the bill,
indicated their intention to vote
against It wh^n it comes up on its
[passage, but were opposed to strangling
the measure by parliamentary expedi-,
J <-nts on a Saturday afternoon, when'
| many of tlie members were absent.
Friends of the bill made the predic-j
j tlon after adjournment that the mens-:
ure will be approved by a substantial
majority when it comes up for flr.al j
action to-morrow. Its supporters cornel
from every section of the State. It is
one of the few measures of genera1, ap-j
plication with regard to which there is;
a division of opinion in the closely!
knit minority. One of the ablest <
speeches in behalf of the bill was made
| yesterday by Delegate Pence, of >
.Shenandoah, one of the Republican'
! members.
S1IAItI* TILT IIKTWRISX
I WILLIS AM) WALTON]
Delegate Walton's motion to dismiss|
I the bill from the calendar called out!
J a sharp rebuke from Floor Leader j
Willis, who deprecated such tactics in;
fighting any bill before the House.
While he was not certain that he would i
vote for the bill himself, he said, hei
did not approve of striking down a
measure by resort to such a motion i
In the last hour of Saturday's session,
when many seats were vacant-, and!
| when there was not sufficient time to!
discuss it on its merits.
Mr. Walton replied that the patron j
of tho bill had personally asked him
I not to movo to pass it by, and that, in
view of this request, he hail been com
pelled to resort to the motion he had
made, since it was his purpose to pre
vent ;he Dill from going to its engross
ment. if possible.
There followed a spirited interchange
j between Mr. "Willis and Mr. Walton,
i which gave way to a general discus
i .-ion of the bill on Its merits, tho chair
holding- that such a debate was in'
I order on a motion to dismiss. .lust;
' before adjournment Delegate Willis!
publicly apologized for his strictures;
i on the conduct of Delegate Walton,)
having received information from the'
j friends of the bill, he said, which con-:
| vinced him that he had done the mem
i rrer from Hanover an Injustice. D^le
| gate Walton acknowledged the apology!
In goou humor, and tho incident WU3i
! closed.
"The chair rules that the gentleman i
; from Roanoke city and the gentleman
from Hanover come forward and shake
I hands before the altar,'" spoke Speaker!
| Houston. Whereupon the House roared.|
micas mi-:
AS -IWTICH V A 1.1 STIC j
Opposition :o the bill, voiced by Dele-'
! gates Walton, Kpes and Gordon. de-[
nounced tho measure as paternalistic,!
[and calculated still further to hedge1
about with penalties, rulings and re-!
I strictions the lives of the free citizens
j of the Commonwealth. Carried to its
t logical conclusion, said Delegate Kpes,
, the program of regulation should bo
j extended to provldo compulsory at
j tendance on Sunday school and church,
iat:u perhaps also regulations prescrib
ing the time when children should be
put to bed and made to arise. Delegate
Gordon characterized it an a measure.
In line with other laws, that are re
ceiving the approval of the present
General Assembly, all designed to "Ger
manize" the people of Virginia.
Delegate Williams, of Fairfax, patron
! of the bill, made a stirring speech in
I its defense. Far from being the drastic
! 'aw that many members supposed it
was, he said, the present bill was ox-j
i tremely mild in its provisions, and only!
a short step in tho right direction. Ho'
asked the House to make the bill iaw|
In tho name of tho 10,000 illitcrato'
white children In Virginia, many of'
whom are being deprivod of tho elo
(Continued 011 Fourteenth Pago.)
CHEF PUTS POISON
IN BANQUET SOUP;
Was Served at Dinner of Honor I
of Archbishop Mundelein
in Chicago.
SEVERAL OF GUESTS VERY ILL'
Believed to Have Been Deliberate
Attempt of Disordered Mind
to Wreak Havoc.
f Special to The Times-Dispatch.1
CHICAGO, February 11!.?Jean Cronos,
or Chroncs. a German, assistant ch<)f
at the University Club, was hunted
fruitlessly to-day by the police of Chi- ]
cago and St. Louis on the belief ex-;
pressed by club ofllclals that he had
made a delibcrato attempt to poison
the several hundred quests at the
banquet tendered Archbishop Georgo \V.
Mundelein, who camo from lirooklyn
only three days ago and took up his
new duties at the head of the Chicago
Diocese. The net for Crones was ex-1
tended to St. Louis, for the reason that I
the man came from that city four years'
ago. 1'rospect of a Federal investiga-l
tion of the affair was indicated by tne'
visit of Hlnton G. Clabaugh, head of
the department of investigation of the J
local Department of Justice, and his
assistant to the Prairie Avenue ro >m
of the suspected man late to-day. Mr.
Clabaugh was uncommunicative, how
ever, as he left the poison-stocked room.
Neither the archbishop nor any
member of the clergy who sat at his
tab!*} was affected by the poisoned
soup, but several of the others who1
were made violently ill were far fromi
well to-day. Among the latter was'
Judge John I*. McGoOrty, of the Cir-j
cuit Court, who has been unable to
eat since the banquet was served.
Mo.\sn;xon ki:i,i,i:v ai'I'eahs,
I'AM-: AM) WOItN, AT CI,t.'H
Monsignor Francis C. Kelley, presi
dent of the Catholic Church Extension
j Society, was one of the most seriously
affected. He had not recovered to-dav,
but appeared pale and worn to those
who saw him at the University Club,
of which he is a resident member.
"P don't mind saying that I urn very
sick," he said. "I am going to consult
a physician."
Former Judge Adelor J. Petit was
still suffering froin the effects of the
poisoning to-day, although he was able
to go to his ortice.
? 'rones, according to Manager Harry
J. Doherty, of the University Club, had
a small part in compounding the soup
j which was served to the banqueters.
This part consisted in making balls of
j sausage and pressed chicken, which
! was used in flavoring. It is Mr. j
Doherty's idea that Crones put into!
each of these small parcels the poison j
which affected those who took it, and I
the reason that more of the diners I
were not affected was that the man !
did not have time to complete his work. '
Al'PEAllS I.IKK OFFICII
OF OLI)-TI>lE DOCTOIt
The "poison shop" in Prairie Avenue,
near Twenty-second Street, where
Crones lived, had much the appearance
of the ofllee of an old-fashioned physi
cian. Books and bottles were every
where; there were gas burners and re
torts, and row upon row of bottles.
His landlady said the walls at one
time held many pictures of the roomer, j
but every one of these had been taken 1
down and torn into pieces. Crones was i
about twenty-nine, and had an excel
lent education. He could speak fluent
ly in German, English, Italian and
French. No anti-Catholic literature
was found in his room, but there was !
plenty of printed matter running in [
the anarchistic strain. A trunk full
of this class of literature was found.
A rifle and the following articles that
contributed to the hate-lmpressioned
atmosphere of the somber quarters
were found:
Six cans of guncotton.
Three pints of nitroglycerin.
Quantities of arsenic.
Hydrocyanic acid.
Potassium cyanide.
Mercuric nitrate.
Mercurous nitrate.
Copper salts.
Among the books found were: "In
Meinoriam for Joe Hill, Murdered by
tho Authorities of Utah"; "A I?ook of
Songs of the 1. W. \V?" and numerous
works by Emma Goldman and other
writers on anarchy.
always i:\i'i;itmr.XTi.\<;
WITH CHEMICALS
Crones was in the good graces or his
landlady, Mrs. It. If. Howard, because
ho always paid his rent in advance.
Hut in the next breath she said he was:
always experimenting with chemicals.!
1 (Continued on Second Page.)
WILSON 100 LATE
TO SEE LAUNCHING
Reaches Newport News After
Boat Has Taken Its
Maiden Plunge.
HE INSPECTS FORT MONROE
Views With Interest Giant Guns
Which Protect Virginia
Waters.
N10 W PORT \KWS, VA , February
12.?President Wilson this afternoon
Personally inspected one unit of the
country's defenses when ho made a
tour of Fortress Monroe, whoso mam
moth Kuns guard the entranco to
Chesapeake Pay, ten tniles away Cut
ting short his inspection of the fort
when he received an Invitation to at
tend the launching$|<f 'he largest oil
steamer ever built in America, the
President hurriedly returned to his
launch and headed for the plant of the
Newport News Shipbuilding and Pry
Pock Company, hut before ills speedy
little craft could cover the twelve
miles the piant hull of the Charley
I'ratt, building for the Standard Oil
Company, had taken its maiden plunge
in the water.4* of the James, and mem
bers of the presidential party had to
satisfy tluimselves with a view of the
shipbuilding plant and other interest
ing spots along tho shores of the.
James and Hampton Koads between
Old Point and Newport News.
NO l-OUM.VI, CKHIOMONIKS
TO MAHK IMS A It It I VA I.
Tiie naval yacht Mayflower, with the
President and Mrs. Wilson and ! ?r. C'iry
'I'. Orayson, tho President's physician,
aboard, arrived in Hampton Koads
about 1:30 P. M? after a delightful
trip down the Potomac River and Chesa
peake Bay. Tho Mayflower did not fly!
the President's flag, and there were no
salutes from the fort or other formal
ceremonies to mark the chief execu
tive's arrival In Virginia waters. It
was stated at Old Point this afternoon
that the presidential party would re
main in the Hampton Roads district
until 5:30 o'clock Sunday afternoon,
when the return trip to Washington
will be begun.
Accompanied by Mrs. Wilson, Dr.
Orayson and two Secret Service men,
tho President came ashore a few
minutes after 3 o'clock. A number of
soldiers from tho fort and civilians
who were gathered on the dock greeted
the President with rousing cheers, to
which ho responded by lifting his hat
and bowing, a broad smile Indicating
his pleasure at the impromptu recep
tion. Tho presidential party th^n
headed for the main entrance to tho
fort. En route, the President was
stopped by several jien who knew him.
and was forced to acknowledge demon
strative greetings every few steps.
Each time ho lifted his hat and bowed
with a smile.
I.VSI'KCTIOX OF FOltT
MA I) 12 WITHOUT I'.SCOIIT
Reaching the fort, tho President
stopped at the guardhouse and asked
the guard on duty to request the of
ficer of the day to notify the fort au
thorities that he did not desire that
any formal courtesies be shown htm;
that, with his wife and Pr. Oravson,
he would see the fort without escort.
The party then walked through the
main barracks, circled the parade
ground, looking the barracks over
from the outside, and then mounted tho
ramparts of Battery Parrot, where the.
President inspected with a show of d.cp
interest tho twelve-inch guns, which
in time of war will be called upon to
keep hostile ships out of the water
ways which lead to Washington, Bal
timore, Newport News, Richmond and
Norfolk.
It was while on the ramparts that
tho President received tho invitation
to attend the launching, the messenger
explaining that the exercises would
be delayed if the President should ac
cept the invitation. Mr. Wilson then
led the way down the barracks ami
breakwater, making the exit from tho
fort through the ollicers' quarters.
Fully HOO persons had gathered on tho
pier, and a volley of handclapping and
cheers greeted the nation's chief execu
tive. The greeting again was cordial
ly acknowledged.
During tho President's ah.?-nee the
sailors in charge of the launch from
the Mayflower had gathered some white j
boards, out or which they had con- '
strutted a temporary platform at the
point the party would board the launch.
The President seemed greatly pleased
by this show of sentiment, and Mrs.
(Continued on Second Page.)
\ '
L
February 16
SITTfGHT
\\
DOLLAR DAY
IS
This is the day Rich
mond Merchants will offer
extremely unusual bar
gains for one dollar.
The latest and freshest
announcements will be
made on the morning of
the sale in
The Richmond Times-Dispatch
>i a jo u -t; i-: \ i:h An t: oktii a i.s.
SPECULfiTIBN CONTINUES"
AS 10 WAR SECRETARY
President Kxperted to Make Selection
Known Soon After Hot urn
From Hay Cruise.
CjOIOTITAIjS NOW SKK.MS IN' I.KAI)
Not Iielieved That Any Present .Mem
ber of Cabinet Will He Transferred
to Vacant Post?Garrison Willing
to 1 lelp Sueressor in Kvery Way.
[Special to Tins Tlmes-Dlspatch.)
U ASHINGTON", February 12.?Specu
latlon continued unabated to-day con
cerning the cholco President Wilson
will make from the score of names
Miicgestcd as qua 1 i (led successors to
?bidley At. Garrison as Secretary of
11 1,1 well-informed quarters be
is ^Pressed that the President
will make known his selection soon
after his return from the cruise down
tl>* bay on the -Mayflower, either to
morrow or Monday.
imports that Secretary of the In
tel tor Lane antl Secretary of Agricul
ture Houston stand the best chances of
>ecoming the two nten between whom
the President will make his flnal choice
were discredited In Influential quarters
to-day on the prouttd that the Preai
IU lias a deep-seated disinclination to
porntif cabinet chnngcs for any reason
other tli.rri actual resignation.
N"? it her Secretary Lane nor Secretary
Houston expects to be transferred from
their respective departments, and those
w.iu are in closest touch with the Presi
... i.t consider such a step his part
out of tlto question.
Kvery where the suggestion that the
war secretaryship would go to General
? oorpe \\. Goethals was hailed with
???at isfact Ion.
I.OKTIIALS MAY \or CO.VSK.VI'
'? ?? I.HAVK CAVAI/ ZO.NR
(?:i the other hand, it is generally
i understood that General Goethals would
not consider accepting a transfer from
! ;Is; post as Governor <,f the Canal Zone
until the canal i.s |? successful opera
Fri.-mls ,.f .Vowton i?. Haker declare
> ),;iv" * enson to believe the Presi
dent is giving serious consideration to
"s qua Ideations for the post, and that
j in th.- event of General Goethals de
clining it, M,-. Baker will undoubtedly
j '?o the President's second choice
j If the report that the President is
.'Iciermined to choose a man from out
M'b- his Cabinet, in order to avoid any
J J"rdf part men t transfers, is correct
; it is considered probable that either
'--??n.Ta! Goethals or Mr. Maker or some
j individual who has thus far ??t ,jeon
I nameil will jjet the portfolio
The news that Mr. Garrison intends
I to return soon to Washington was re
Iceived here with much antieipatorv in
jteicf!. Ills Statement that lie is ready
1 to Kive his successor the benefit of
, every tin tier he knows jibout running the
War Department is taken to mean that
><? former secretary may remain in
Washington for some time, acting in
",lv,??fy capacity for the benetlt of
the new departmental chief.
I tiAllUISOX Wll.i, ASSIST
SICCHSsmt IV OKIi'ICK
Mthough it is customary for a re
i iring ?secretary lo assist in the induc
tion of hi.i successor into otllce Mr
tjarrison n.ay do very much more'than
this, if his intentions, as reported it.
;,w dispatches, may l.e taken
literally. There is an unusually largo
amount of important unfinished mili
tary matters awaiting ?na! action
Major-General Hugh L. Scott, chief
of Start of the army and temporarily
.Mlinlnisteritig the affairs of Wo'r
'epartment under an executive order
authorising htm to act as Secretary of
War for a period not exceeding thirty
days, saiii this afternoon that he will
carefully refrain from acting on anv
important matter of policy that en
guyed tli.- attention of Mr. Garrison ut
<>? his resignaiion.
Among these pending matters, which
must come before the next civilian sec
retary for detei initiation, are the court
martial of Lieu tenant-Colonel Lewis K
Goodier. of the Judge advocate-general's
depart men), and the case of Major
('forge T. Langhorne, formerly United
Mates attache at Herlin. who is said
to havo brought important letters to
? he German embassy i? Washington.
Mr Garrison reviewed the Goodier care,
but did not submit it President
Ho was about to investigate the caso
of Major L.inghorno to see if court
ni.u a i roceedlngs were warranted.
IIKPOKT AIIOCT T 11.111II/ry
mot uivicx (;io:ni!\ci:
Reports that tho President might
decide to appoint as Mr. Garrison s suc
cessor Ills own secretary, Joseph p
Tumulty received small credence among
friends of Mr. Tumulty, who say lie has
no particular fondness tor War De
partment work and no wish foe that
jjortlollo.
U. S. MAY UPHOLD
POLICY OF BERLIN
This Government's Position
Will Be Defined Some
Time This Week.
GERMANY'S FORMAL NOTE
AT STATE DEPARTMENT
High Officials Believe Conten
tions of Central Powers
Well Founded.
ENTENTE ALLIES TO PROTEST
Will Hold That Change During W;; ?
Would Ho Unneutral
Act.
WASHINGTON'. February 1?.?Ger
many's formal note to the United Stat* ??
announcing its intention to treat arme I
merchantmen of the entente allies as
warships after February 'J9 reached the
State Department to-day. The policy
of the United States in regard to the
declaration of the central powers prob
ably will bo detlned some time next
week, after a note similar to that
issued by Germany is received from
the Vienna Foreign Offico.
It was said in high official quarter!
that the United States would have
reach a decision quickly, only seven
teen days remaining before the effec
tive date of this declaration, after
which commanders of German an-'
Austrian submarines are oxpected t.?
receive orders permitting the torpedo
ing without warning of any ship which
is armed.
There are strong indications that vr>
| rious high officials believo the positb :i
t of the central powers to be wo'!
founded, in view of the changed corn1',
tlons of sea warfare. In many quart*- *
it also Is considered that tho Teutonic
declarations are a development of ti>?
American memorandum to tho entenu
allies, suggesting the disarming <d
merchant ships and indicating thai
armed merchantmen entering Ameri
can ports might bo regarded as war?
ships, subject to internment.
I'XWlLLlNt; TO ADOPT
l. vxsixr; itkcommendatio\f
Representatives of the entente allies ?
have made oral representations to Sec
retary Lansing regarding the Ameri.
can memorandum. Although tho Stan
Department declined to make know;
the nature of the representations, >!
was believed the secretary was In
formed that at least somo of the entet.;;
governments were unwilling to ado, ?
tho suggestions, and that strong pro
test tnignt follow should the Unlt> !
States attempt to put Into practice tM
suggestions It has mado.
The State Department has been in
formed that others of the entente gov.
crnmouts worn viewing tho question
with open minds, but it was stated 01
higli diplomatic authority that th?
entente allies probably would agre?
upon a position in the near future.
Tho contention made in certnii
entente diplomatic circles, that for tin
United States to change during tl?
war its policy regarding the right
merchant ships to arm for defensivt
purposes would be an unneutral act.
was answered l>y a high official to-day
Ho denied that he thought such ,t
change would be incompatible with tin
neutrality of the United States, and
added that should the United States
take the position that Germany and
Austria are right, in their contentions,
it might be claimed that, Instead of
operating against tho entento allies,
such a declaration would In reality
help them to save tho lives of their
nationals, anil possibly their ships.
TO SKI'tlllK PI.KIM.FS
for I'XAiiur.D ship?;
The plan of tho United States has
been to secure from Germany and Aus
tria pledges that no unarmed ships
will be attacked without warning. It
is believed here that the Teutonic
powers readily would give such pledges.
Officials did not seem inclined to doubt
that such pledges would be given In
good faith and that, together with
assurances already given, the lives of
noncombatants on unarmed ships would
be safe in the future.
Prospects of a warning to American
citizens to remain off vessels that arc
armed loomed largo to-ctay. One high
official expressed the belief that Con
gress would bo called upon to take
some action leading to that end.
Officials of tho State Department nlsn
are considering what effects Its deter
minations as to policy will have upon
American naval policy and operations
in tho event this government was en
gaged in war. The question probably
will have an important bearing upon
the final decision.
LAW A\I) I'ltA t'TH'i: OF
Al.l.ll.S NOT IMFOIOt
LONDON', February 12.?Tho belief
strongly urged by tho British press
that merchant ships of all the allied
nations would be similarly affected by
any restrictions on their carrying arma
ment or neutral passengers has de
veloped the fact that tho law ar<)
practice of all the allies is not uniform
concerning tho arming of merchant
vessels.
Tho British and Italian practice
recognizes armament for defensive pur
poses, and the prevailing view ex
pressed by tho press is that such Is
recognized right under international
law. But the French practice does not
recognlzo tho arming of merchant
ships, and French liners to New York
are not permitted to carry any guns.
Tho legal theory on which the
French practice is based is an out
growth of the principle that guns are
the property of the King, and that no
private individual or ship shall be per
mitted to use them. In case a French
merchant ship mounts guns. It Immodl*
<u<Uy becomes ? n&v&Jt jiuxUUrj*
