WEATHER
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
week ending Feb. 9
25.87.
Arizona Fair
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL 18, NO. 223.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 13, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
"D
LI
I If
Ml USE"
I
6ARR ISON'SfYUMA M
SUCCESSOR
NOT YET
KNOWN
Wilson Enjoys Quiet Cruise
on Mayflower and Elimi
nates All Formality; Wash
ington Officials in Dark.
CRITICS PREDICT
COMPLE SURPRISE
Lane, Houston, Roosevelt, and
Folk Amongst Most Prom'
inently Named; President
Gains Powerful Supporters,
WASHINGTON. Feb. 12. The Pres
ident, who is cruising: on the MayfloW'
or. has not communicated with the
White House. , Officials said ir the
President had reached any conclusion
in the .consideration or a successor to
Garrison.' they were unadvised. It is
taid the President left the Capitol
with an open mind, expecting to give
careful consideration to each of the
numerous candidates suggested.
Among those familiar with the Pres-
ident's, views the impression prevails
that uniess he goes outside of high of
ficial circles for the war secretary, he
will nae Secretary Lane. Others be
lieve Secretary Houston. .Assistant
Secretary of the Navy Roosevelt and
Counsellor Polk are being seriously
considered. It will be little surprise
if the choice falls upon a man outside
official cire'es It is believed the Pres
ident will reach a decision before he
returns to Washington tomorrow or
Monday.
In letters and other messages reach
ing the White House from members of
Congress official! professed to see a
decided tendency among those who
are opposed to Garrison's continental
army plan to support the President on
a compromise, program. It is said
more than forty sent word they would
Minport the President. It is believed
several who heretofore had opposed
the Administration's proposals w:ere
among them.
The President visited Fortress Mon
roe and inspected the great guns
guarding the entrance to Chesppeake
Pay. Accompanied by his wife he land
ed from the Mayflower and walked
through the reservation.
The President's party was .invited to
attend the launching of a ship but ar
rived too late. The President's yacht
didn't fly the President's flag.- There
was no salute. When he reached the
fort the President asked that there be
no formal courtesies and that he be
allowed to see the fort without escort.
It is expected the President will visit
the national soldiers' home tomorrow.
He will leave for Washington late
Sunday afternoon.
BRITISH SEA DISASTERS
BFRLIN. Feb. 12 In additional to
the Rriiish shin Arabis, another ves
sel .was sunk by a German torpedo
bout in the North Sea on the night of
Feb. 10. according to an official admir
alty report given out here. The report
rays: "The Admiralty reports rela
tive to the sinking of the British crui
ser Arabis, that, a second English ship
was sunk, which was hit by a torpedo
A German torpedo boat rescued the
commander of the Arabis, also a sur
eeon. officer, non-commissioned offi
cer and twenty-seven men. During the
return the sureeon and three men
died because of long exposure in the
sea."
ROOSEVELT ENDORSED
MUSKOGEE, Feb. 12. A motion to
endorse Roosevelt for the Republican
nomination for President was defeated
bv a convention of Republicans for the
second Congressional District. The
convention adopted a motion, however
referring to Roosevelt as the "great,
est living American." ?- '
P. O. BILL UP
WASHINGTON. Feb. 12. The huse
debate on the postoffiee bill was di
verted for two hours info a rambling
discussion. Mondell. a Republican of
Wyoming attacked Wilson's prepared
ness policy. Ouinn. a Democrat of
Mississippi, defended the President.
UN'S CASE IS SENT
BACK FOR RETRIAL LONG
CONTROVERSY CONCLUDED
High Court Holds That, Inasmuch as it is not Against the
Law to Have Liquor or to Consume it, Webb-Kenyon Act
Does Not Cover the Matter and the Amendment Cannot
Be Construed to Keep Liquor for "Personal Use."
Many Cases, Throughout the
the Decision. People from Many Points Are Arranging'
to Have Liquors Shipped Into the State for Their Own
Use. Prohibition Workers in Capital Threaten. . ,
PHOENIX. Feb. 12. That liquor may be brought into Arizona for
personal use was held by the Supreme Court today in an opinion re
versing the Yuma 'Superior Court in the case of W. J. Sturgeon, charg
ed and convicted of introducing a bottle of wine across the state line
at Yuma. '....-.
Sturgeon's demurrer,-on the ground the liquor was introduced for
his personal use was over ruled. At the trial he sought to prove the
liquor was brought in for that purpose but proof was denied. This
was held an error and the case was reversed and remanded for a new
trial.
After quoting section 1 of the prohibition amendment the court
finds that three crimes are defined and denounced, the traffic in in
toxicating liquors, the manufacture of intoxicating liquors and the in
troducing or attempting to introduce intoxicating liquors.
The opinion then deals with the contention of the appellant at his
trial that the provision of the Constitution against the introduction of
liquors is unconsitutlonal,'- as an attempt to regulate Interstate Com
merce. The various lawa relating to liquor In Interstate Commerce are
cited with decisions bearing upon them upto the Webb-Kenyon Law.
an act divesting intoxicating liquors of their interstate character in
certain cases. That act forbids the taking of liquor into any state
"to be received, possessed, sold, or in any manner used either in the
original package or otherwise in violation of any law of such state."
"Search the prohibition amendment as you will,"says the opinion.
"There Is no suggestion or intimatlonin any form contained therein,
prohibiting the possession or individual consumption of intoxicating
liquors in Arizona."
The opinion then recites that if liquor is to be put to a use. recog
nized as lawful in the state, that the. highest court of the land has
held that the prohibition of the Webb-Kenyon Act did not apply and
the decision in the case of the Adams Express company vs. Kentucky,
that the introduction into dry territory of liquor for personal use was
no violation of the law, is in accordance with and Influenced by re
peated adjudications on the subject by the federal court. , The con
stitutionality of the Webb-Kenyon Act is not discussed, that matter
not having been raised in the court below.
The opinion concludes: "Before concluding It may be properly ob
served that so long as the law accords to the' 1 citizens the privilege
of possessing and using intoxicating liquors for his individual consump
tion, this privilege may not be used as a license to violate the law
by invoking that privilege as a subterfuge for an illicit introduction or
use, nor should he consider it an invitation to pass the danger lino
lest he find himself wrecked, for the way of the transgressor is hard."
The decision, rendered by the su-
preme court, yesterday in Phoenix, t
ends the first chapter in the now
famous "person use' controversy
which has been argued pro and con I
in every part of the state since the
promulgation of the dry amendment '
with the meeting of the Arizona'
Temperance Federation, scheduled
for the latter part of this month in
Phoenix, a program of future action
will, undoubtedly, be adopted by the
dry forces for the consideration of
the voters at the coming elections.
The decision, as it stands, is a
distinct victory for the conservatice
dry s. During the campaign the lead
ing workers for the amendment con-
tended the law would not prohibit the
introduction of liquor into the state
for person use. The wet forces
argued that the amendment did pro-,
hibit the introduction for any use.
The attorney general, Wiley E. Jones,
, " " i instead of two. there was an almost
since January 1. 1915. is has so beeni, .... . , ,,, ,r,.
considered.
One of the staunchest supporters i .
oi tne iiuerai view oi me aiiienumeiii i
. . i ... , ., . i i :
has been A. R. Bucknam,
who has
worked for the cause of temperance
in Cochise county for' the past two
years. '
'I consider the decision a victory
for the cause of temperance," said
Bucknam last evening wbe nasked
about the matter. "It vindicates our
leaders and I think its effect will be
to forever banish the saloo nfrom the
state of Arizona. The tempearnce or
ganization will not work along the
same lines and endeavor to secure
legislation which will regulate the
traffic, something after the Kansas
statutes." '
What effect the decision will have
on a number of cases now pending in
the various superior courts of the
state, it not known. The concluding
paragraph of the decision places the
matter up to t,he- law officers of the
state, as to whether or not prosect
tions shall be made. In other words,
if it ran be proved that liquor is not
being shipped Into the state for "per
sonal use" the act becomes a viola
tion of the amendment.
There are a number
of pending
State, will be be Effected by,
ZERO IN WAGES
When Burton Holmes, the great
world-traveler. was making a voyage
up the Ke tne gma mtt in whi;h
his party traveled grounded on a
andbar. wag necessary to send t0
. .... , . .i a-- ...
sevent stalwart sons of Egypt came
under their sheik, and for five mortal
hours lifted, pushed, and poled the
yacht off the bar. And then, asked
to put a price on their labor, they
named the sum of 40 piasters. In oth
er words, a piaster being worth about
as much as a jitney, the bill for the
vork of the entire squad of twenty-
seven husky men was only two dol
mpant Ws thn ? remg
each for the five hour8 of ,abor t0
no of thj Ume consunie1 by
trip back and forth. When the
travelers took it upon themselves to
! correct the bill and pay five dollars
- a ..a
" v. n ... wuij iv . . u t v v .
RIVER BILL COMPLETED
WASHINGTON. Feb. 12. The annu
al rivers and harbors appropriation
bill was practically completed by the
committee and will be reported to the
House probably Wednesday. It car
ries a total of forty millions. The larg
est item is six million twenty thou
sand fo rthe Mississippi River.
cases in Cochise county at the pres
ent time. There is one purely "per
sonal use" ca :e which, undoubtedly,
will be dismissed as the same ground
was covered in the appeal as In tht
Yuma county appeal. That Is the
Stansbury case.
The prevailing opinion appears to
be that the decision will serve to
keep Arizona in the dry column ot
states. The wet forces are known to
have hoped and prayed for a continu
ance of the present conditions, know
ing, the people would become tired or
the status and vote the saloon back
into existence. There was no joy in
the liquor men's ranks last night
when the decision became known.
WEARING NEWEST
' ' : 'u ' .
a Sirs. Sidney A. Williams and her new sun bathing costume,
This novol crfation, seen at the
ti-:.7.ily Ionjr, covering- the wrists. The skirt is very short, seven or eipht inches above the kneej. The collar!
is rnther high. . Beit, cuffs and collar are of white linen, as are the Fitiich knee cuffs. The f Dur-cornered hat'
is oi iliow silk.io matc-h. Thebrim of the hat is of navy blue. The ptrasol is a Japanese model with black
and white striped and a touch oi green. No more striking coatume for tun Lathing cau be imagined. I
PLAINTIFF GETS
Superior and Pittsburg Com
pany Loses Fight in the
Superior Court. $10,000
Award Given Davidovich.
TOMBSTONE. FV.t. fa (Special)
The case cf David Davidovich vs. the
Superior Pittsburg Mining company
for damages was concluded this
morning and was given to the juryj
just befor ethe noou hour. The Jury,
after being out some time, brought in
a verdict in favor of the plaintiff for
the sum or $10,000.
On Tuesday the case of Frank Tom
Ich vs. the same company will be
tried. He is suing, for damages for
the loss of three finRers on his right
hand alleged to be due to an accident
while he was in the employ .of the
company.
The Toniich case will be followed
by the damage case of George Haigler
vs. the Higgins Leasing company and
Tom Higgins.
An order was made this morning for
aspecial venire of eleven jurors to
report on Tuesday morning at nine
o'clock.
Henry Henrich of Dowie was ex
amined by the insanity commission
this morning and ordered committed
to the asylum. He was taken out at
11:30.
Marriage Licenses.
The followign marriage licenses
were issued out of the clerk's office
during the past week:
Samuel Schwitzer to wed Anna
Levy, both of Douglas; B. Gabble to
wed Myrtle Gaudy, both of Willcox:
Jas H. Gaffney to wed Pear M. Mc
Kireman. both of Court land: Willis K.
Mason to wed Dena Kringer, the form
er of Douglas and the latter of Ellin
wood. Kansas: Noel C. Johnson to
wed Marjorie Z. Parrott. both of
Douglas; Alfred B. Walker to wed
Josephine Figeroa, both of Bisbee;
Tom James to wed Josefa Quitada.
both of Bisbee: Ernest E. Johnson to
wed Ida M. Mercleau. both of Doug
las; Ernest Brown to wed Eva L.
Chesnut. both of Douglas: Robert C
Blair to wed Laura Jones, both of
Bisbee: T. C. Owen to wed Pearl Gin
gerach. both of Bisbee: Robert C.
Coleson to wed Ida Arius, both of
Douglas: Walter Gibson to wed Sallie
Terry, both of Conrtland: Marion Had
dis or Ft. Huachuca. to wed Sarla B.
Martinez, of Nogales: G. H. Coleman
to wed Florence Randies, both of
Bisbee: Sam Ashuma to wed Margar
et Kaemerling. both or Lowell: Will
iam I. De Borde to wed Bertha B.
Baker, both of Douglas.
To Examine Zinc Property.
II. E. Bieran. of Tasadena. Califor
nia, arrived here yesterdsy and this
morning went to Middle Pass in the
Dragoons to examine the Gordon zinc
property with a view of taking an
option in the same. Mr. Bieran Is
the representative of a number ot
prominent capitalists who are in the
market for a- zinc group of claims,
lie mav lookout other properties
while he is In this locality. He is
accompanied by his wife and son.
Leave for Old Heme.
Cochie county has lost one member
(Continued on Page Two.)
VERDICT FOR
DAMAGES
SUN BATHING COSTUME
famous Florida winter resort, is of
AERIAL MAIL SERVICE.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 12. Ae
rial mall service to isolated
points of Alaska. Is contemplat
ed by the postoftice department.
Bids were asked for service on
eight routes, seven of which
are in Alaska. If the service is
successful it Is announced a
gradual expansion will follow on
other routes where transporta
tion is slow and inadequate.
TO
M NE
STRfKERS
RETURN
1
. . .. from the railway and executed, it was
Their Committee Calls JMoren- asserted. It is stated those being kill
ci Strike Premature; DU- ed are former adherents of Villa and
charged Men Reinstated and
t it - r - I
non-unionists r.cuuncu
nine
vi-iriu.-.. r-u. " -
hundred employes of the Detroit Cop-
per company at jiorenci. wno sirucn
yesterday, following the discharge of
two union men. threatened non-union
men with violence, returned to work
when their own committee advised
them the strike was premature and un
warranted.
Following the return ot the
men
their committee and the managers
held a conference which brought a
bout the reinstatement of the discharg
ed men and continuance in employ
ment of the non-union men. Managers
and men agreed there should have
been no discharge and no walk out. as
all differences will be settled through
a grievance committee.
BITTER AGAINST ENGINEERS
LITTLE ROCK. Ark., Feb. 12. Bit
ter reeling exists against United
States ormv engineers because or al
iened statements that reports or dis-
tress in Arkansas flood districts are
exaeeerated. was manifested at a mass
meeting in Lake Village. The levee
near Lake Village is reported to be
weakening although it is believed ef
forts of more than 100 men who work
ed all day rendered It safe from break
ing. Flood wa'er in town is station
nrv sfier receding three inches from
the highest stage.
THE AGE OF PICTURES.
Publishers and printers always ap-
predate the remarkable and propose
ohotograohic Illustrations in Barton
Holmes Travelogues. N. A. Patter-
i son. formerlv of the Review staff, is
I one of the 38 enthusiastic owners of
he work In Douglas. He mis;
i "This is the aee of pictures, and anv
work so profusely and accurately illns-
t rated as Burton Holmes' Travelogues
is bound to evert a strong influence
for good. 'Grown-ups' and children
: will, he led Into an advantageous war
for thinking and reading from the In-
jterest aroused br the excellent pic-
ture ad photographs.
"tr uniw imr.u timid .ii. nt
evnressinn. and his fine illustrsMone.
make his work entertsininelv cpmore- "I'll not make myself vocal In any
pensive and of splendid educattonalWy : I em out of politics and Intend
value." niake no further statements."
AT FLORIDA RESORT
at Palm Beach, Florida.
vellow silk crene. The sleeves are ex-
LIST OF DEATH
Opponent of Carranza Sought
by Force Sent Out with Or
ders to Kill; Carranza Gar
rison is Endangered.
DOl'GLAS, Feb. 12. Carrying a
"death Tist"" containing names of per
sons to be arrested and executed as !
enemies of the Carranza government,
a firing squad of the de facto govem-
ment killed a number in northern So -
. ... ... ..... ..
nora in the last few nays, according
Ho arrivals here. They . stated that on
Weduesday four soldiers stopped a
train on the Nacozari railroad south or
Agua Prieta and took off a Mexican.
. He was marched a few hundred feet
j0"e Maytorena.
t Passengers on the
t J'nssengers on the .Nacozari train
stated members of the firing squad
ai dto be on their way to Nacozari to
. -
execute ,wo Mexans. then to Cumpas
" ur-ir- m uumut-i in- iu ue i
Francisco Mayotoral. former captain
of the army or Maytornea. when the
latter was Villa governor in Sonora.
was shot last Saturday at Cuchuta.
forty miles south or here, according to
reports. ,
THREATEN CARRANZISTAS
WASHINGTON. Feb. 12. A consu
lar dispatch received by the State De-
partment Indicated the rebels in Tux
pam. Mexico, are in such numbers as
to endanger the Carranza garrison.
The American gunboat Machias has
tP ordered Tuxpam from TampF
Ico. Details are lacking. Previous dis
patches told of a revival of rebel act
ivities in. the oil fields about Tuxpam.
The Carranza commander in this re
gion recently promised to begin an
enerretic campalen against the raid
ers. Large American properties are lo
cated at Tuxpam.
CONDEMNS WILSON
NEW YORK. Feb. 12. Governor
Samuel W. McCall of Massachusetts
speaking at the Lincoln Day dinner of
the Republican Cluh. criticized Wil
son's foreign policy an ddeclared the
European war saved the country from
disaster that otherwise would have
been certain tinder the Underwood
,"'"
MrCall said: "There should be no
difficulty about the tariff. We must
r"ls" ,h' re1"" " very rpn"
venienf to raise It at the custom house
" declared It to be imperative that
the country should' safeguard itself by
adopting a vigorous policy of national
defense.
GARRISON TALKS
" iukk. reo. i.-. rorraer w-r-
rctary Garrison said that when his sue
cesser had been appointed he would
rft" " M to Washington and help
the new secretary to become aciuiaint-
ed with his duties. Garrison
said:
INCLUDES
MANY
ACTIVITY IS
i BRISK ON
SEVERAL ;
i EIIIS-
French Claim Big Gains in
' Champaigne Which are Par
tially Admitted by Berlin;
Russian Successes Also.
AUSTRIA DENIES GAINS
OF RUSSIAN TROOPS
French and Italian Ministers
Agree on Unity of Action;
Allied Representatives to
Confer in Paris.
LONDON. Feb. 12. Increased actlv
it is reported , on several European,
war fronts, notably in France and Ga
licia. The most important infantry
operations on the western rront oc
curred at Champaigne where the
French captured three hundred yards
of German trenches, according to Par
h; . Berlin concedes a French gain in
this territory but places the captured
positions at two hundred yards. Pet
rograd unofficially reports the .Teutons
on the defensive at three points in
Galicia. It is declared several breach
es were made in the Teuton lines. Al
though admitting the results were not
important. Petrograd records the be
lief that the Rnss'no offensive has at
least relieved pressure on the Alliee
, elsew here.
Current Austrian reports on the op-
' "-
no permanent gain for the Russians.
" .
. : : . . i. n .. 4 ... ;
i The Teutons specific om-rations north
east of Tarnopol. Galicia. where a
Russian detachment that occupied ser
' ..u.-.
aeciarea to nave oeen ejected in coun
ter attacks. Vienna claims the cap-
ture of Italian positions near Flitsch
and reports of the repulse of Italians
ne?.r Tirana, northeast of Durazzo in
Albania.
A Rome dispatch brings a statement
attributed to French and Italian poli-
tical sources that complete accord has
M ween Vmier 1Wan(I
er France, who is now in Rome, and
Italian cabinet members with whom
he ha.s been consulting on steps to uci
r.v Allied action in the war. The sink
ing of the Norwegian steamer Alaba
ma. SPl inns, is reported. The crew
was saved.
An official statement issued at Rome
according to a correspondent of the
Havas Agency, says the French and
Italian ministers came to an asree-
: ment on the necessity for a closer co-ordination
of efforts by the allies so
i es to assur better unity of action.
The statement adds that a conference
wit! take place soon in Paris when
political and military representatives
of the allied countries will be present.
The conference will be preceded by a
meting of the general staffs of the
Allies.
STRANG? PUNISHMENT SCHEME
FL PASO. Feb. 12. Sergeant Man
uel Rolss. former Villa soldier and lat
er bugler in the Carranza army, to
gether with four vlcilians. will face a
firing snuad shbrtlv before noon to
morrow, according to orders issued by
General Gavira. rnmmsndant at Juar
ez. Rotes was sentenced for stealing
ammunition and a civilian named San
chez to pay the death penalty for buy
ine it. The other three civilians are
to face th firing sonad as an "obiect
I lesion but not to be shot, according
to Gavirs. Ther will be ignorant of
their fate until Rojas and Sanchea
have been executed.
Gavira is said to have conceived this
novel form or punishment rr three
civilians. Two are charged with hav
Ine stolen lard and beans rrom an Am
erlcan-owned ranch In Chihuahua. The
chprge axainst the third is of buying
stolen ammunition from Rojas is said
to have been not clearly proved .
RUEF IN BUSINESS.
SAN FRANCISCO. Feb. II. Abra
ham Ruef. former political leader, whe
j was reeentlv paroled from ?an Quen-
i He. where he was sentenced In 1911
to fourteen years for offering bribe,
' has opened business offices here.
