THE- ARIZONA KEPUBL
awv-vsePENDEWT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
The Arizona
Republican,
Full
Leased Wire
A. P. Report
. The 8un
Always Shine
Finest
Winter Climate
In the World
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
22 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 13, 1916
22 PAGES
VOL. XXVI, NO. 270
1
H NT
CRAFT MED
Uermanv Formally Notifies
United States 'That All
Liners Carrying Camion
Will Be. Subject to Tor
pedoing Without AVarning
TAKES EFFECT
FEBRUARY 29
Question Arises Whether
Armed Liners Should Be
Treated as Fighting Ves
sels and Interned it' Thev
Visit United States
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASH1NGTN, Feb. 12. Germany's
formal note to the United Statec-announcing
Its intention to treat armed
merchantmen of the entente allies as
warships after February 2, reached
the state department today. The pol
icy of the United States in regard to
the declaration of the central powers
probably will be defined some time
next week after a note similar to
that issued by Germany is received
fromthe Vienna foreign office.
It was pointed out today in high
official quarters that the United
States would have' to reach a decis
ion quickly, only 17 days remaining
before the effective date of this
declaration after which commanders
of German and Austrian submarines
are expected to receive orders per
mitting the torpedoing Without warn
ing of any ship which is armed.
There was strong indications that
various high officials believe the po
sition of the central powers to be
well founded in vie'y of the changed
conditions of sea warfare. In many
quarters it also is considered that the
Teutonic declarations are develop
ment of the American memorandum
to the Allies, suggesting the disarm
ing of merchant ships and indicat
ing that armed merchantmen entering
American ports might be regarded as
warships, subject to internment.
Representatives of the entente al
lies have made official representa
tions to Secretary Lansing regarding
the American memorandum.
Although the state department de
clined to make known the nature of ,
the representations, it was believed j
.
AS WAR VESSELS
t 7 of the e glfrom Liverpool on the night of J"' to pros by the use of
nt wore unwilling? to adont tlieiuary 22. The prow of
suggestions and that strong protests struck and raked the starboard side
might follow should the United States, of the steamer.
attempt to put into practice the sua;-, 'rh-e n6ht w"s clear. the I'liiladel
gestions if has made. phia's passengers stated, and they
The state deDartment has been-in- could see no excuse- for a collision.
formed that others of the entente !
governments were viewing the ques- aboard the steamer ana it was
tion with open minds, but it was feared at first the vessel had been
stated on high diplomatic authority torpedoed. High tribute was paid to
that the entente allies probably would , the stewardesses on the vessel, who
agree 'upon a position in the near went about among the women-pass-future,
lengers supplying them with life belts.
The contention made in certain j The ship's orchestra began playing
entente diplomatic circles is that for immediately after the collision and
the United States to change during the music continued until the excite
ho wnr It nnlicv reeardine the ment was over.' There were 324 pasj-
right of merchant ships to arm for.sengers aboard the Philadelphia.
defensive purposes would be an un-j
neutral act. was answered by a high
official tndav. He denied that he ,
l. . i. i Li i, in.!
compatible with the neutrality of the!
United States and added that should)
the United States taKe tne posiuon
that Germany and Austria are right
in their contentions, it might be
claimed that instead of operating,
against the entente allies such a dec- j
laration wouiu in reamy ueii mvm
to save the lives of their nationals
and possibly their ships.
The plan of the United States has
been to secure from Germany and
Austria pledges that no unarmed
ships would he attacked without
warning. It is believed here that
the Teutonic powers readily would
give such pledges.
Officials did not
(Continued on Page Two)
ONE OF SEVEN SAF
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Feb. 12. After obtain
ing a confession from one of the
seven persons under arrest for com
Dlicitv In the safe blowing in the
SECURED IF MILLNFESSES
government building at St. 1'aui, ; Mrs. Nellie leonara, jonn J. zee
Minn., from which $650,000 worth of and Mrs. Florence Zeck were con
United States Internal revenue tinued to the same date. Mrs. Leon
stamp and $3,000 were stolen Jan-1 ard .and Zeck, in default of bail,
uarv 6 federal officials today con-; were sent to the county jail at
tlnm.d the nuestionins of the pris -
oners in the belief that others may
he involved in the crime. 1
The name-of the persons who con-
fessed and the details of the pris- he should appear as "wanted" any
oner's story were carefully guarded where in the records of the bureau of
by the federal secret service men. identification. The federal authori
Michael J. Flanigan and his wife, ties said they had no evidence
Catherine, were the first of the pris- against him.
oners arraigned before United States' P. A. Davitt. an accountant from
Commissioner FoOte. charged with the department of internal revenue
failure to reveal knowledge of a fel- at Washington, and L. Kilcourse, of
ony against the government. 3oth the local department worked through
were released oh bail, the bonds of out the day in counting the recov
Flanigan being fixed at $50,000 and ered stamps.' At the conclusion of
those of his wife at $10,000. Their their task it was announced that the
hearing was set for February 2T j total value of the stamps was $.".14,
George Bissett and Edward Leon-( 910.04.
GERMANS CLAIM SUNK
TWO ENGLISH CRAFT
IN THE NORTH SEA
ROOSEVELT GREATEST
I
LIVING AMERICAN I
I
I
MUSKOGEE, Okla., Feb. 12 A
motion to endorse Theodore Roose-
j velt for .the republican nomination
for president was defeated today
by republicans of the second Okla-
horaa congressional district in
I convention here. The convention
adopted a motion, however, refer-
j ing to Colonel Roosevelt as "the
greatest living American."
I I
0- :
I
Nil FLY OVER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
XEW. YORK. Feb. 12. Zeppelins
did not reach London in their raid
on the night of January 31, accord
ing to passengers from England who
arrived here tonight on the White
Star liner Adriatic. There were re
ports in the British capitol, how
ever, that 179 persons were killed
and nearly 300 wounded in the mid
land districts not far from London,
by bombs'" dropped from the German
airships.
George T. Knowles, chairman of
the American University Club of
Liverpool who was tin the Adriatic
was in London the night of the raid
and declared the Zeppelins bom
barded neither that city nor Man
chester. ' Considerable damage was
done, however, at Burton-on-Trent.
he said. He visited that place and
saw the ruins of a large brewery
which had been burned. Bombs
were dropped also in Nottingham.
The missiles evidently were aimed,
Mr. Knowles asserted, at large build
ings in the hope that arsenals might
be struck.
George H. Doran. a New York pub
lisher, confirmed the statnent that
the raiders did not visit London on
the night of the 31st.
Aboard the Adriatic were forty of
the passengers who were aboard the
Philadelphia of the American line
when she collided with the big sail-
tntr shir, Ppn t. six hnilT'S out
the Ben Lee '
There was considerable excitement ,
Boats were sent out from the
steamer to tne rescue or me crew m
tne ,tsen Le. wnicn went uown
loner after the collision
So far as
known only one sailor perished' and
(Continued on Page Five)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb! 12. No mea-
sages reached the White House to
day from President Wilson, cruising
(ard, charged with the robbery were
later arraigneu ana tne cases con
tinued until February 21. They were
unable to furnish the' bond of $100,
000 demanded and were taken to the
Cook county jail. The cases against
. Wheaton; 111., where Mrs. Zeck was
released on a $500 bond
t Frank Bissett was turned over to
the police late in the day to see if
H
BRITON CAPITAL
Htm StNUoHU MtaSK
GARRISON SUCCESSOR Hill
F BLOWERS WHO
In Addition to British Ship
Arabis, Another Vessel
Was Sunk by German
Torpedo Boat, Says Ad
miralty Report
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, Feb. '12. (by wireless to
Sayville) In addition to the British
ship Arabis, another vessel was sunk
by a German torpedo boat in the
North sea according to an official
admiralty report given out here to
night. - The report which is for
warded for publication by the Over
seas News Agency follows:
"The admirality reports, relative to
the sinking of the British cruise
Arabis that a second English ship, was.
sunk, which was hit by a torpedo. A
German torpedo boat rescused the
commander of the Araois also the
surgeon, one officer, one non-commissioned-
officer and 27 men. During the
return, however.the surgeon and three
men died because of long 'exposure
in the sea."
A German official statement issued
yesterday cfaimed that on the night
of February 10-11. during an advance
of German torpedo boats, several Eng
lish cruisers were met on the Dog
gerbank about 120 miles east of the
English coast and that one of them,
the new cruiser Arabis, was sunk. The
statement also declared that a tor
pedo struck a second cruiser.
The Rritish admiralty stated that
the cruisers mentioned In the German
report were four mine sweeping" ves
sels, three of which returned safely.
Germans Are Repulsed
PARIS, (via London) Feb. 12. The
following official communication was
Issued by the war office tonight:
"In Belgium, after quite a violent
artillery preparation, the Germans sev
eral times attempeQ to cross the Yser
canal at the Steenssract height, and
at Ket Sas. Under the combined
fire of our artillery and machine
guns these attempts failed.
. "In Champagne there was very
marked artillery activity in the re
gions of the Butte Du Mesnil .and
Navarin. After a bombardment last
ing several 'hours the enemy was able
to penetrate a small salient of out
line between the road from Navarir
and that from Saint Souplet.
"To the northeast of the Butte Du
Mesnil the Germans attempted a new
counter attack to drive us from those
parts of the trench occupied by us
yesterday but were repulsed. We
renades to the east of these parts
and i.ave made some prisoners.
"In the Argdnne, near the Four De
Paris, we exploded a camouflet which
shattered the mine works of the en
emy. "In the Vosges to the north of Wiss
embech, east of St. Die an enemy
infantry attack met by our fire was
not able to approach our first line."
Call For Single Men
LONDON, Feb. 12. The Central
News is authority for a report that
all single men are to be called on
to enlist next week. A royal procla
mation shortly to be issued notifying
all single men to attest, the Central
News states, attributes the unexpected
cpeedy summons to the many recent
consultations between the ministers
of munitions and the war office.
On February 3 King George signed a
(Continued on Page Two)
j in the Cheaspeake on the Mayflower,
J and officials said if he had reached
j any conclusions In his consideration
I ol a successor to Secretary Garrison
they had no knowledge of it. It was
said the president left the capitol
last night with an open mind, expect
ing during his trip to give careful
consideration to each of the long list
of candidates suggested to him.
Among many of those familiar with
the president's views the impression
prevails that unless he goes outside
of high official circles for a war sec
retary he will name Franklin K. Lane,
new secretary, of the interior. Others
believe that of those already associ
ated officially with the administration
Secretary Houston of the Agricultural
department, Assistant Secretary
Roosevelt of the navy and Counsellor
Polk of the state department, air are
being very seriously considered by the
president.
There will be little surprise here,
however, if the choice fell upon some
man outside official circles and not
publicly discussed for the place. The
president's mind. White House offi
cials believe, virtually will be made up
when he returns here late tomorrow
I or Monday. In letters and other mes
sages reaching the White House today
from members of congress officials
professed today to see a decided tend
ency among those who had opposed
Secretary Garrison's continental army
plan to support the president on a
compromise program.
More than forty representatives, it
was said sent word they would sup
lort the president, among them be
ing several who hertofore had op
posed the administration's proposals.
WOMAN'S MURDER
TRIAL IS OPENED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WINTERSET, la., Feb. 12. Fred
Meyer, son. and Mrs. Gerhart Storcks
mother, were called to the witness
stand today in behalf of Mrs. Ida
Meyer, charged with complicity in the
murder of her daughter-in-law, Mrs.
Ethel Meyer, last July 25.
The calling of Meyer to the stand
was unexpected as in his own trial on
a similar charge he was not a witness.
"I had nothing to do with .injuring
my wife and my mother never asked
hie to hurt Ethel ' in any way," de
clared the young farmer.
"On the day of my wife's death I
Went to the barn to do some chores,"
h? testified. "I had been away from
the house about 20 minutes when my
mother called and said something had
happened to Ethel. We went upstairs
together and there found my wife
lying on the floor wounded."
SAYS TONGS WILL
SIGN NEW TREATY
Republlcan A. P. Leased VIre
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb 12. Repre
sentatives mt the Suez Sing and Suey
Ong tongs, Chinese secret societies,
met with Chief of Pulice V'hite today
and agreed to the signing of a peace
pact or. nex: Mondaj. Until then,
lh ion leaders saiH th-v wmil,l ,.t .
he res jonsi ji ior the actions of in
d'vilcal members, but, in case of a
recurrence of yesterday's hostilities,
they declared that they would assist
. ' ' , .
in turning over he otlenuers to the
pm.ee uepurin;ent.
Tonight the Suez Sings were hosts i
at banquets to nearly all San i
Francisco's Chinatown, and; tomorrow ;
right the Suez Ongs will respond in
like manner. Heavy guards of police
supervised tonight's celebration and '
will also at'end tomorrow's -ban-
met.
M'CALL THINKS
WAR SAVED US
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Feb. 12. Governor
Samuel W. McCall of Massachusetts,
speaking here tonight at the Lincoln
day dinner of the republican club
criticise,! President Wilson', foreign
policy and declared that the European
war had saved the country from dis
aster that otherwise would have been
certain under the Underwood tariff.
"There i should be no difficulty
about the tariff," he Faid. "We must
raise revenue and it is very con
venient to raise it at the custom
house."
Governor McCall said it was imper-
tive the country should safeguard
itself by adopting a
vigorous policy
bf national defense.
o
ABE JUST CAN'T KEEP
AWAY FROM 'FRISCO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 12. Abra
ham Ruef, former political leader of
Svan Francisco, who recently was pa
roled from San Quentln prison where
k was sentenced in 1911 to serve 14
years for offering a bribe to a former
supervisor, opened business offices
here today.
Although it is against the parole
lawc fc.r a paroled prisoner to enter
hiifiness until the expiration of his
sentence, Charles Sonntag of the state
board of prison directors said tonlgnt
that Ruef had been granted the priv
ilege as a special dispensation to en
able him to tend to his property in
terests. CHRISTIAN CONGRESS
MEETS IN PANAMA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PANAMA- Feb. 12. At today's ses
sion of the Congress on Christian
7"-ork in Latin-America the open dls-'
cussion showed a tendency to em
phasize the social side of missionary
work rather than the theological sido.
It Is believed that the danger of a
rplit in the congress is past for the
present at 'least, but it is feared that
the discussion next week on co-operation
and the promotion of unity may
result in a division.
o :
GARRISON SAY'S HE'LL
HELP HIS SUCCESSOR
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Feb. 12. Lindley M.
Garrison, former secretary of war,
said tonight that when his successor
va3 appointed he would offer to go
to Washington and help the new
secretary become acquainted with his
duties.' . .
"I shall not make myself vocal in
any way," Mr. Garrison said. "I am
out of politics and intend to make
no further statements." .
o
BARCELONA MAY
BE A FREE PORT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MADRID, (via London) Feb. 12.
U is officially stated that the creation
( f Barcelona as a free port is as yet
only a project, the details of which
ill require leading legislation and
discussion. JVIany regions -of central
Spain already have protested against
such a concession to Barcelona. .
MA Y SHIP LIQ UOR INTO
ARIZONA FOR PERSONAL
USE SAYS HIGH COURT
Holds No Crime to Drink or
Possess Liquor, Therefore
Uncoasljitutionhl to Pro
hibit Introduction for Per
sonal Use.
That one may bring liquor into the
state of Arizona for personal use was
held by the supreme court yesterday
inan opinion reversing the court be
low in the case of W. J. Steurgeon, ap
pellant against the' state, respondent,
!from Yuma county. The defendant had
Den lnea Ior miroaucing a pome oi
wine across me line ai xuma. his
demurrer on the ground that the liquor
was introduced for his personal use
was overruled. At the trial he sought
to prove that the liquor was brought
in for that purpose, but proof was de
nied. That was held to be error and
the case was reversed and remanded
for a, new trial.
After quoting section 1 of the prohi
bition amendment, the court finds that
three crimes are defined and de
nounced f The traffic in intoxicating
liquors, the manufacture of intoxicat-
ing liquors, and introducing or attempt
lu miruuuce intoxicating liquors.
The opinion then deals with the con
tention of the appellant at his trial
that the provision of the constitution
''""" i Vi """"""'"" "
unconstitutional as an attempt to regu-
te interstate
commerce. The various
,aw8 relating to liquor in
commerce were then oilert
terstate i
with de- I
cisions bearing- upon tnem up t0 the
Webb-Kenyon law, "an act divesting
intoxicating liquors of their interstate
character in certain ases." That act
forbids the taking of liauor into anv
'state, "to be received, possessed, gold
or in any manner used either in the
original package or otherwise, in vio
lation of any law of such state."
A quotation is made from Justice
Day's' opinion in the case of the Adams
Express company vs. Kentucky, show
ing to what extent congress has ex
tended prohibition of the act with ref
erence to interstate shipments and a
quotation is also made from ' the
court 8 own decision in the Gherna
case last spring, upholding the right
!of the state t0 enact such legislation
' US had been enacted in the prohibition
amendment
The opinion continues:
"It being settled that traffic in in
toxicating liquor in this state is a
crime, it follows that the shipment,
transportation or introduction of in-
toxicating liquor into the state with
j the Intention to sell, barter, exchange,
J give away, or dispose of, divests", under
Ithe Webb-Kenyon act, such intoxicat
ing liquor of its interstate commerce
character and leaves the state free in
t the exercise of its police powers to de-
nounce such introduction as a crime
ana to prescribe penalties for its com
mission. In other words, one who in
troduces intoxicating liquor into the
state with the purpose and intention of
violating the laws of the state by dis
posing of the same may not now inter
pose the defense that he is engaged in
interstate commerce, for the reason
that the article that he is handling
has been invested of its interstate
character by the Webb-Kenyon act.
Intoxicating liquor, in the aspect of be
ing "received, possessed, or kept, or in
some way used in a manner prohibited
by the laws of the state to which it is
to be, or is in fact, imported," Is an
outlaw and divested of its interstate
character and withdrawn from inter
state protection at the 'hands of the
federal government." V
Coming to the chief issue in the
case, the court says:
"The appellant sought to show, by
evidence, that the liquor with which he
was charged with introducing into the
state was for his personal use, upon
the theory that the prohibitiion amend
ment to the constitution .does not de
nounce or define personal use of in
toxicating liquors as a crime. He con
tends that it is not unlawful in this
state to have in possession or to drink
intoxicating liquors; that the Webb
Kenyon act does not divest or attempt
to divest intoxicating liquors of their
interstate character when shipped,
transported or introduced into the
state from without the state to be
possessed or used for a lawful pur
pose. "Search the prohibition amendment
as you will, there is no suggestion or
intimation in any form contained
therein, prohibiting the possession or
individual consumption of intoxicating
liquors in Arizona. Indeed, it was freely
admitted upon the argument by coun
sel who appeared as amici curio that
it is not a crime to possess or drink
intoxicating liquors in . Arizona, and
while the attorney general, at least in
his brief, insists that the uae or pos
session is a crime, he fails to cite us to
a single instance where a prosecution
e
EL PASO. Feb. 12.-Sergeant- Man-
uel Rojas, former Villa soldier and late
bugler in the Carranza army, together
with four civilians is to face a firing
squad shortly before noon tomorrow,
according to orders issued tonight by
General Gabriel Gavira, commandant
at Juarez.
Rolas was sentenced to death for
stealing ammunition and a civilian
ramed Sanchez is to pay the death
penalty for 'buying it
j The other three civilians are to ex
THREE WILL
has been begun in any county of the
state against any person for drinking
intoxicating liquors or having it in hiB
possession.
The records of the courts throughout,
the state evidence many prosecutions
for the sale of intoxicating liquors
since the prohibition amendment went
info effect. It is common knowledge
that personal use has been more or less
prevalent throughout the state and the
effort has been, not tc punish the user,
but the seller thereof. The bootlegger
and not his patrons have had the at
tention of the- prosecuting officers of
the state.
"We think it is the consensus of
opinion, not only of the legal profes- .
sion, but of the general public, that it
is not a crime to possess or drink in
toxicating liquors in this state. This
universal, and, no doubt, correct con
struction of the prohibition amendment
may easily account forVhe lack of ef
fort upon the part of the prosecuting
officers of the state to punish for the
mere drinking or possession of intoxi
cating liquors. So far as the enforce
ment of the prohibitory law is con
cerned, that this has been the general
usage and practical construction of the
law by the officers of this state may
not be gainsaid and is so admitted by
the attorney general. If it had been
made a crime to use and possess intoxi
cating liquors in this state, its (intro
duction for that purpose would relieve
it of its interstate character, so that its
denouncement as a crime would fall
within the police power of the state
Like sale and barter, then use and
Possession would be in violation of the
laws or the state."
In the case of the Adams Express
ompany vs. Kentucky, the Court of ap
peals of that state held that there had
been no violation of the Webb-Kenyon
law by the introduction of liquor
for personal use into "dry" territory.
That view was sustained by the United
States supreme court in this lan
guage: "It therefore follows that, inasmuch
as the facts of this case show that the
liquor was not to be used in violation
of the laws of the state of Kentucky,
as such laws are construed bv the high
est court of that state, the Webb-Kenyon
law has no application and no ef
fect to change the general rule that
the states may not regulate commerce
wholly interstate." -
Concerning this utterance, the opin
ion continues:
"In so far as the decision in A,dams
Express company vs. Kentucky' hatf
influenced our determination, we wish
it to be understood that it was not
the announcement of the law of the
highest court of Kentucky, but of the
supreme court of the United States to
which we have given most credence
Upon the stipulation in that case the
liquor was shipped into Kentucky for
the personal use of the consignees, and
such use not being a crime under the
laws of Kentucky, neither that court
nor the supreme court of the United
States could have reached a different
conclusion. It was nnon th
mined fact that the liquor imported into
xx.ucny was to oe put to a use rec
ognized as lawful that the prohibition
of the Webb-Kenyon act did not apply
and the decision by the Kentucky court
ib in accord with and influenced by
repeated adjudications on the subject
by the federal court." . -
The constitutionality of the Webb
Kenyon act is not discussed, as that
matter had not been raised in the court
below.
After passing upon other phases of
the trial in the lower court. th
preme court adds the following, rather'
"'"" smuance or those who may
hasten to avail themselves of the privi
lege of bringing liquor in for personal
"From what has been said, it must
not be understood that the mere claim
w." .mwirauns liquor has beerr
-.uuBut ,n oy one for his personal use
renders such a person immune from
prosecution. Any one bringing intoxi
cating liquor into Arizona from outside
the limits of the state does so at his
peril. Whether he subjects himself to
(Continued on Page Two) (Continued on Page Two)
COfllil AFTER CUTTluG SCRAPE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire (story told by Walter A. Diefenbach of
ST. LOUIS, Feb. 12. Dr. Albert F. J Granite City, 111., plotted with Diefen
Johnson, who was shot and serioTSTy bach t0 ,ure Dr- Johnson to a room in
wounded in a hotel fight here last night, ,a d'ntwn hotel and who was cut
in which four men took' part, stiU was and bruised in thc struggle, was re
in a critical condition tnteht hut nhv.
sicians believed he would recover.
Dr. Charles W. Ke'nnerlv of San An.
tonio, Texas, who, ' accordingMo the
FACE FIRING SQUAD - ;
BUT ARE NOT TO BE KILLED
.perience the sensation of facing the
firing squad as an "object lesson." but
will not be shot. They are to be ig
Sanchez have been
cording to General Gavira,' who ts
-aid to have conceived this form of The trouble between Johpson and Ken -punishment.
Two of three are charged nerly was due to tinanciar difficulties,
with having stolen a quantity of lard Kennerly claiming that Johnson had re
and beans from an American owned , fused to pay a note of $2,500 and certain
ranch in western Chihuahua. The profits from a dental parlor they op
charge against the third, buyin ? stolen j erated. Johnson said that Kennerly
ammunition from Rojas, is said not to jhad "double-crosse m and that he
have been clearly proven. .. had "double crostW nerly.
EI LEFT Br , ;
TO DIE ALONE
Wisconsin Junior Betrays
Girl and Then Refuses to
Marry Her She Takes'
Poison in His Presence,
He Leaving Her for Dead
ATTEMPTED TO
ESTALISH ALIBI
Makes Secret Trip to See
. Her, Leaving Bed as if
Slept in Prisoner Prom
inent Athlete Disclaims
All Guilt
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Feb. 12. William H, Or
pet. University of Wisconsin, Junior,
who is said to have left Marion Fran
ces Lambert, whom he had jilted, to'
die of poison In Helm's woods at Lake
Forest, a suburb, was charged with
murder today and held in the Wauke-
gan jail without bail.
Orpet, who is 20 years old, is said
by Ralph J. Dady, state's attorney at
Waukegan, to have admitted to him
that- he had been intimate with the
girl,, who was but 18 years old. He is
said; to have stated further that Miss
Lambert had feared for four months
that she was to become a mother des
pite drugs which he purchased for her,
and which made her ill.
Orpet, it is charged, made a secret
trip from Madison .to Lake Forest last
Tuesday night. He called" the girl on
the telephone and made an appointment-which
was kept in the woods
next morning. At this interview Orpet
said lie told her he was to marry a
Miss Celestia Touker. It is said that
she then took a quick acting poison
and that Orpet saw her die. Fright
enec lie rushed "away and caught a '
train back to Madison. The next day,
Thursday, the body was found.
Before leaving Madison, Orpet is
said to have tried to arrange an alibi.
He wrote a ietter to Miss Lambert and
left it in the hands of a friend to be
mailed Wednesday afternoon. At that
tiin"he was on the way back to the
university. He had left his room at a
boarding house in a condition to sug
gest that he had occupied it Tuesday
night.
.Miss Youker is said to be an in
structor in chemistry at a normal col
lege at Dekalb, 111. It is said that she
was a schoolmate of Orpet at Lake
Forest before he went to the univer-
sit:'.'
.The prisoner is an athletic looking
young man, dressed in regulation col
lege ga rb. To a reporter he said :
""I met her by appointment in the
woods. I told her not to tell anyone
I was coming. I mussed up my bed
in the boarding house at Madison si
my landlady would think I had been
there. I arrived at Lake Forrest late
Tuesday night. I called her by tele
phone at her home on the Jones Kup
penheimer farm. I told her I would be
waiting the next morning at the Sac
red Heart station of the Chicago and
Milwaukee electric line I saw her
when she passed toward the station
with a chum, Jqhephine Davis. I was
hiding behind a tree an beckoned to
her. Soon she came Dack.
"We started walking. I told her' I
was 'through with her.' She cried and
begged me not to give her up. We'
walked and talked in the woods about
two hours.
"Finally I told her there was no use
talking any longer that I had made
up my mind I was goings to' marry
Miss Celestia Youker. I started away.
"I heard her cry out for me to come
back, I kept on walking.
"I was some distance away when I
a on Dono. mie looay.
Charles Lody, an assistant in Dr.
Johnson's dental parlors, and who also'
jwas involved in the struggle, was re-
leased on" bond and; at the request of
Mrs. Johnson took charge' of her hus
i band's dental business. ..
j Conflicting stories of the fight were'
itold by the participants today. Dr.
.Johnson said that as soon as he entered
j the hotel room where he had been sum-:
moned to do certain dental work for the
Wifc ot Diefenbach, who posed as "Mr.i
Arnold,": he .was shot by Kennerly.
When Dr." Johnson arrived at the'
K..aI .a.m ua a . i i t . j
T" 1. wry or.
' v i. e aS W?a merely a
- i . n, T . 1 J' , , -
nterA
