I lead, $6.15; spelter, not quoted; cop. " TM ' V J T.W W ( J W CXTrTTC: T ! "
I per. firm, electrolytic, $26.75. $9700 f - - WEATHER Utah: Tonight and
I $27 2528.50. " ' J TM J Tuesday Fair; Not Much Change in ,,
ml . . Temperature. ifllj '
I - HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. ' " ' I
; "" YCarN- 38' Prioe: 7,ve Cents. . OGDEN CITY. UTAH. MONDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 14, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffice, Ogden, Utah. i
British Cruiser Arethusa and the
j French Admiral Charner Sunk
HUN, ITALY'S SECOND LARGEST
CITY, RA1DEDJY AEROPLANES
i 1.
Six Persons Killed and Many Injured German Offensive
on'W686 Fron Gaining in Intensity and Breaking Out
at New Points Both French and Teutons Claim
Advantage and Capture of Prisoners and Mu
nitions of War Serious Losses Suffered.
London, Feb. 1 4, 4 : 1 9 p. m. The British cruiser Areth
usa struck a mine today off the east coast of England. It is
' feared, the statement adds, that the vessel will be a total wreck.
About ten men were lost in the sinking of the cruiser.
The text of the official statement says: "His Majesty's
ship Arethusa, Commodore Reginald Y. Tydwhitt, has struck
a mine off the east coast. It is feared she will become a total
wreck. About ten men were lost."
The Arethusa was a light cruiser displacing 3,600 tons.
' She was 4 1 0 feet long, 39 feet beam and had a mean draft of
1 4 feet. The vessel was built at Chatham in 1913.
The cruiser was armed with two six-inch guns fore and
aft and six four-inch guns on the broadside. She also was
equipped with four 2 1 -inch torpedo tubes.
The Arethusa had not been 48 hours out of the hands of
her builders, before she took part in one of the most important
naval battles in the North sea since the war began the en
gagement off Heligoland, August 28, 1914, in which three
German cruisers and two German torpedo boat destroyers
were sunk.
It was a torpedo from the Arethusa which struck the bat
tered cruiser Blucher and sent her to the bottom in the great,
North sea battle between British and German squadrons on
January 24, 1915. . .
Although covered with scars of battle received m these
engagements, the Arethusa, when visited shortly afterward by
journalists, was again in shape for another fray.
Paris, Feb. 14, 2:01 p. m. Reports' 6T"tne'loss of the
French cruiser Admiral Charner, which was reported to have
been sunk by a submarine which was patrolling the Syrian
coast, were confirmed today. A raft bearing one live sailor
and the bodies of fourteen of his companions has been picked
up of the coast of Syria. The rescued man said the Admiral
Charner was sunk on the morning of February 8. He declared
there was no time to use the lifeboats. i r
An official statement given out by the French ministry
of marine yesterday said that no news had en 'eceiv frwn
the cruiser Admiral Charner since February 8 when, according
to a German telegram, a submarine had sunk a French warship."
Paris Feb. 14, 3:30 p. m. French
( forces have exploded a mine on the
road between Neuville and La Folic,
according to an announcement made
by the war office this afternoon.
In Champagne a German attack east
of Sommc-py was met by the explosion
, of three French mines. The German
efforts to advance were checked, but
in spite of serious losses thej main-
1 talned themselves in the positions oc
cupled by them.
The text follows:
"In the Artois tilstrict we have
caused the explosion of a mine south
of SL Neuville and La Folle.
"South of the river Somme our at
tack by our troops made yesterday
evening against the works held D
the Germans south of the river Frlse
resulted in our occupying a section ol
trench. A counter attack was checlc
tfl by our fire. One German com
pany was surrounded and decimaten.
The captain and seventy survivors
surrendered The total number or
Prisoners at present in our hands is
about 100. Several machine guns also
were captured by us. According to
the word of prisoners, and judging
also from the number of German dead
on the field, the losses of the enemy
were considerable.
X Mines Exploded In .Champagne.
"In the Champagne district, during
an attack delivered yesterday by the
enemy to the east of the highway to
the east of Tahuro and Somme-py,
we exploded three mines which had
been laid previously under the ad
vance trenches to which the Germans
had penetrated. The German efforts
to continue on to our supporting tren
ches failed. Jn spite of the serious
losses caused" bv the explosion of our
toineB, aB well as our artillery lire,
the enemy maintained his positions in
I theBo advanced trenches.
"In upper AlBace, yesterday even
ing, there was further action on the
Part of the enemy infantry cast of
j Seppols, preceded by a violent art l
J lery bombardment which resulted in
the Germans securing possession of
i : about 200 meters of trenches, but an
! h Immediate counter attack on our part
brought Tack to our hands the greater
f Portion of these positions. Artillery
! fighting of great violence continues
to this region."
i Germane Make Important Gains.
I Berlin, Feb. 14, via London, 5:20 p.
r. jn. Important gains (for the Germans
: m two engagements were reported to-'-'
lay bv the war office. Northwest of
i Tahure, positions over a front of 700
H yards were captured, seven officers
11 and 300 men being made prisoner. In
M- 'S6 reSln of Anersept, near the
M French frontier, billed positions lour
'('
hundred yards long were captured.
Today's official statement says:
"Western theater: Lively artillery
fights have continued over a great
portion of the front During the night
the enemy again directed his fire on
Lens and Llevin. Vi
"South of the Somme, stubborn
fights developed around an advanced
and extending sap head of our posi
tion. We gave up a surrounding at
tack on outpost trenches."
"In. Champagne enemy counter at
tacks made south of St. Marie were
repulsed. ,
Three Hundred Prisoners Taken.
"Northwest of Tahure we wrested
from the French by a storming attack
a position 700 meters in extent. The
enemv left seven officers and more
than 300 prisoners in our hands and
lost three machine guns and five mine
"Hand 'grenade fighting to the east
of Malsons de Champagne has some
to a standstill.
"South of Lusso, east of St. Die, we
destroyed by a mine explosion a por
tion of one of the enemy s positions.
French Trenches Taken.
Near Abersept, near the French
frontier, our troops took French tren
ches over a front about 400 yards
in extent nnd repulsed night counter
attacks. We took a few dozen pris
oners, two machine guns and three
mine throwers. .fi,0,i
"Our aeroplane squadron attacked
rallwav establishments and military
encampments of the enemy on the
northern portion of the front.
"Eastern theater: Apart from a
few patrol engagements resulting In
our favor nothing of importance has
occurred
"Balkan theater: There is nothing
to report."
HOSTILE DESTROYER
DRIVEN OFF.
Constantinople, Feb. 14, via Lon
don, 3:48 p. m. An official state
ment issued today by the Turkish
marine department says:
"An efremy destroyer, attempting
to approach the entrance to the Dar
danelles was driven off by our bat
teries." New Credit Loan.
London, Feb. 14. 12:15 p. m.It is
expected the next vote of credit will
he Introduced soon after parliament
reassembles tomorrow. The state
ment is made unofficially that the
vote will be for 250,000,000, bringing
up the total of war credits to 1,912,
000,000. Marquis Loses Son in War.
London, Feb. 14, 4:43 p. m. The
Marquis of Bath today received news
that his eldest son, John Alexander,
viscount of Weymouth, had been kill
ed in action. No details regarding
the viscount's death so far have come
to light. He was born in 1895.
London, Feb. 14, 11:45 a. m. In
creasing activity In the Balkans is re
ported from Athens. An Exchange
Telegraph dispatch filed yesterday,
says that following the arrival of
French and British reinforcements at
Saloniki the French are again pro
ceeding up the' railway, concentrating
as far forward as the Bulgarian fron
tier. The Bulgarians are said to have
occupied one-third of Albania.
War Scare Without Foundation.
Washington, Feb. 14. Department
of justice officials said today they
had no evidence to support the alarm
of Canadian officials that the Domin
ion was in danger of Invading par
ties from the United States.
Review of War Situation.
Activity on the major war fronts Is
confined mainly to northern France,
the Intensity of the battling being
most pronounced in the Artois dis
trict where the Germans claim to
have made notable gains recently.
In the Balkans, the entente forces
are reported extending their positions
around Saloniki, concentrating troops
as far forward as the Bulgarian fron
tier. In Albania, Bulgarian troops are
said to have advanced as far as Fieri,
1G miles from Avlona, while an Aus
trian column recently was reported
at Tirana, about twenty miles west
of Durazzo.
Turks to Reinforce.
Reports from Athens credit the
Turkish government with the inten
tion strongly to reinforce its armies
in Mesopotamia.
All single men of military age in
Great Britain who have not been ex
empted under the military service act
Mere called to the colors by an of
ficial proclamation issued today.
It is unofficially stated that the
next British vote of credit, soon to be
introduced in parliament, will be for
250,000,000 pounds, making the total
war credits, 1,912,000,000 pounds.
The loss of two allied warships of
considerable size is announced In to
day's dispatches.
The British 3,600 ton cruiser Are
thusa struck a mine off the English
ocast and probably will prove a total
loss. Ten of her men perished.
Confirmation of reports that the
French cruiser Admiral Charner, of
4,680 tons, has been sunk off the Syr
Ian coast, probably by a submarine
attack, have been received In Pari3.
Milan, Italy's second largest city,
has been bombarded by aeroplanes,
six persons being killed, according to
a Lndon news agency dispatch.
The German offensive on the west
ern front which has been Intermittent
ly pressed 'for a fortnight or more,
seems to be gaining In Intensity ana
is breaking out at new points.
After it had developed to a consid
erable degree In the Artois region,
near the Belgian border, where import
ant successes were claimed at var
ious points, It Is now strongly In evi
dence in the Champagne and further
south.
KJJ
MORE MEN CALLED
UNDER DERBY ACT
All Remaining Single Men to
Be Enrolled Under British
Colors Except Certain
Exemptions.
London, Feb. 14, 2 p. m. An offi
cial proclamation calling up the re
maining single men under the Derby
plan and the military service act was
posted today.
The call to the colors will have the
effect of enrolling all single men of
military ages who have not been ex
empted. Single men who did not attest un
der the Earl of Derby's plan are sub
ject to compulsory military service,
with certain classes of exemptions,
under the terms of the act passed
at the last session of parliament
which went Into effect February 10.
no
UNITED STATES IS
EMBARRASSED
Warning Issued by Central
Powers Cannot Be Official
ly Accepted by This
Country.
Washington, Feb. 14. Austria's 'for
mal notification of her intention to
sink without warning armed merchant
ships after March 1 was received to
day by the state department It Is
substantially the same as that receiv
ed from Germany. Secretary Lansing
said no decision had been reached on
tho. attitude of the United States. He
had read the Gorman memorandum
carefully, he said, and found it agreed
with the published declaration con
tained In recent news dispatches from
Berlin.
The United Statea probably, will
leave to future developments whether
any action will bo taken in response
to tho announcement from the Teu
tonic allies thnt armed merchantmen,
beginning March 1, will be subjected
i - - -
to submarlneattack without warning.
From high -off iclal quarters today
came the intimation that the memor
andums received from the German
and Austrian governments are con
sidered in themselves a sufficient
warning to Americans to refrain .from
engaging passage on merchant ships
of the class of -Vessels affected "by the
order.
The United States admittedly has
found Itself to be In a delicate posi
tion as a result of its memorandum
to the entente allies and the memor
andum from the central powers.
Should this government approve of
the position of the Teutonic allies, it
is believed diplomatic controversies
immediately would result and it
might even be charged that tho United
States had committed an unneutral
act of benefit to the enemies of the
entente allies.
On the other hand, the central pow
ers, It is believed, might be offended
should the state department criticize
adversely their memoranda which was
generally regarded to be a develop
ment of the American memorandum
suggesting the disarming of merchant
men. This contained an Intimation
that the United States itself, because
of the changed conditions of warfare
on the seas, might decide that armed
merchantmen entering American wa
ters were auxiliary cruisers and,
therefore, subject to Internment.
nn
MERCURY DROPS
TD FORTY BELOW
Official Weather Observer Re
ports 22 Below Zero at
Gloversville, New York
Outside Districts
Colder.
Glowersvlllo, N. Y., Feb, 14. The
official weather observer here Torr:t3
that at S o'clock this morning the
thermometer registered 22 degree be
low zero. Unofficial reports from
outlying districts were as low as forty
degrees.
New York, Feb. 14. A cold wave
which sent the mercury down to two
degrees above zero caused the death'
of two men from exposure hero to
day The rapid drop of tho thermo
meter followed a two-day snowstorm.
Four inches of snow fell and street
and elevated traffic was badly hampered.
oo -,
AIRCRAFT DROPS
BOMBS ON MILAN
Six Persons Killed and Several
Injured Several Hostile
Aeroplanes Take Part
in Raid.
London, Fob. 14, 2:30 p. m- JA Rou
ter dispatch from Milan says six per
sons were killed and several Injured
by bombs dropped from aeroplanes
which appeared over the city this
morning.
The dispatch says several aero
planes took part In tho raid which
was made at 9 a. m, " Anti-aircraft
guns opened a heavy fusillade and the
aeroplanes disappeared after dropping
bombs. Tho material damage was
small. The casualties were all
among civilians.
Milan is in northern Italy, south
of the Swiss border and seventy milec
west of the Austrian line. Heretofore
aerial attacks have not been made on
points as. far in -.the intoriotv-'as-Milan.
Milan Is the second largest city of
Italy, with a population of about 500.
C00. It has some of the finest
churches of Europe.
oo
STRICT BLOCKADE
BEING ADVOCATED
Great Britain Urged by Citi
zens to Authorize Navy to
Exercise Full Sea Power.
London, Feb. 14, 3:35 p. m. A
largely attended meeting for the pur
pose of urging the government to es
tablish a more effectual blockade
against the central powers was held
in London this afternoon. Baron De
vonport, chairman of the port author
ity of London, presided.
The discussion hinged on the fol
lowing resolution:
"That this meeting of citizens of
London, viewing with grave alarm the
enormous quantity of commodities
reaching the enemy through' the
North sea, calls upon His Majesty's
government to give our navy freedom
to exercise fuller and more effective
use- of our sea power in the war.
nn
TWENTY-SIX ARRESTS
IF MADE BY IE
POLICE FORCE
Police activity since the adjourn
ment of the muncipal court Friday
morning, caused 2i offenders to face
Judge Barker this morning, while five
forfeited bail. Of the twenty-one, four
teen were ordered confined In the
city jail for periods ranging from five
to sixty days, In lieu of payment of
alternative fines, and seven were giv
en suspended sentences.
Imoprtant among the cases before
the court were those of Era Bolden,
Anita Edwards and Ethel Adams,
negresses, and Nellie West, white.
They wcro arrested and convicted on
charges of vagrancy, indicating that
the police department is determined
to stamp out this type of crime In
the city. Era Bolden was taken into
custody at the "Ark," a house on Wall
avenue, by Sergeant H. C. Peterson
and Patrolman Blackburn, In company
with A. B. Graves, a negro. She was
sentenced to 25 days and Graves was
sentenced to servo 15 days in jail.
The Edwards woman was arrested at
2552 Lincoln avenue by tho same of
ficers and forfeited $25 ball.
Ethel Adams was taken into custody
by Sergeant Peterson, Patrolman
Blackburn and Detective Robert Burk, i
at Twenty-fourth street and Lincoln
avenue. In company with Louise Scott
and Edward Kasor. She was adjudged
guilty of being In a house frequented 1
by women of ill-repute and given 25 i
days sentence. The Scott woman for- l
felted $25 bail, and Kaser forfeited 3
$10. (
The charge against Nellie West was i
Lno second of the kind within a week i
X
and 3ho received a sentence of 25
days In jail. Warren Clark, who was
arrested In connection with the case
of the West woman, and found guilty
of contributing to her downfall, was
sentenced to serve 60 days in jail. He
was arrested by Detectives Fife and
Wootten, Sergeant Peterson and Pa
trolman Blackburn.
J. Moran and George Ray pleaded
guilty to charges of mendicancy" and
were sentenced to serve ten days la
jail.
George Sheppard was. given ten days
for vagrancy, and George St. Clair, a
five-day sentence for drunkenness.
John Doe, J. Ross and Arthur Meyers
were also ordered to serve five days
for drunkenness. Thomas Kelly, E.
S Douglass, James McFarland, Thos.
Smith, Peter Murphy, Joe Keane and
Ben Applegard, plain drunks, were
given suspended sentences. John
McMahan, arrested on a charge of
drunkenness, forfeited $5 ball. Thos.
Hunt, who pleaded guilty to a charge,
of mendicancy, got off with a five
day jail sentence.
A 25-day jail sentence, with the al
ternative of paying a $25 fine, was the
order of the court following the con
viction of Mrs. Jack BoBwman, on a
charge of vagrancy. The defendant
was arrested at Twenty-sixth street
and Grant avenue, Saturday night, by
Sergeant Peterson and Patrolman
Blackburn.
Mrs. Eliza Garner was sentenced to
serve 30 days in jail for repeating the
offenso of drunkenness. She was ar
rested at the Dawson rooming house,
252 Twenty-fifth street, on the night
of February 7th. At the time of the
arrest she was engaged in a drunken
carousel with a number of men and in
attemptlngto descend tho stair of the
rooming house to the street, fell and
injured her nose. She was not able
to appear In court until this morning.
nn.
DEADLY POISON
IN ORPET HOME
Drug, Identical With That
Which Caused Death of
Marian Lambert, Found
in Basement.
Chicago, Feb. 14. Deadly poison,
Identical with that which is believed
to have caused the death of Marian
Frances Lambert, was found today in
tho basement of the Lake Forest
homo of Will H. Orpet, the Univer
sity student accused of murdering the
young woman, his former sweetheart,
according to State's Attorney Dady of
Waukegan.
Reports that they had consented
to the release of Will II. Orpet, the
University of Wisconsin student ac
cused of murdering their daughter,
Marian Frances Lambert, and that
they favored leniency In his case,
wero donled today by Frank Lambert,
father of the girl, speaking for him
self and Mrs. Lambert.
"On tho contrary." said Mr. Lam
bert, "both my wife and myself bo
Hevo Orpet guilty of causing our
girl's death, whether ho actually pour
ed the poison down her throat or not,
and we want justice to be done."
oo
Turks Sent to Mesopotamia.
London, Feb. 11, 10:20 a. m.-Reu-Lfr
dispatch from Athens says it is
reported there that Turkish forces in
formidable numbers are being sent to
Mesopotamia. 'Troops roleased from
he Dardanelles are already on their
,vay thither and small contingents
llso have left from Thrace.
MUNITIONS PLANT 1
WRECKED BY FIRE .
Employes Sent Home and All 1
Information Given by Com-
pany Officials. j
Schnectary, N. Y., Feb. 14. The ' H
munitions plant of the General Elcc-
trie company was wrecked bv a firo fu
today. The blaze was flna'lly ex- ifl
tlnguished by the company's private jjj I
fire department and no report was fl I
made to the city police or fire authori-
ties. Officials of the company with- H
held all information regarding the lj -
fire. jl 1
The employes of the munitions plant I III '
were sent home. It was reported that ill 111
the roof of the building had fallen In 1 1
and that the walls had been declared l 1 1
unsafe. i ml
The plant has been closely guarded j j
for some thime and no one was al- H
lowed, to approach tho munitions ijjlfl
building today. H
The burned building was a small j j lli
one story structure of concrete. For- jlljlj
merly it was used as an overall fac- ! IK
tory but was purchased by the Gen- IIK
eral Electric company a fow months (!
ago and made into a plant for tho It
manufacture of shell casings. There n
were no explosives or inflammable 10 It
materials in the building. jjj f
oo III ll
WILSON CONSENTS
TO NOMINATION
Formally Announces Willing- !
ness to Be Candidate in ! j
Coming Ohio Primary.
Washington, Feb. 14. President jj(
Wilson today formally gave his con- i
sent that his name be used as a can- nl
didate for re-nomination. H m
In a letter to the secretary of state IHlu
was unwilling to enter a contest for
the nomination but was ready to per- ' I
mlt the use of his name In the com- ll
Ing primary In order that the Demo- n
crats of Ohio might mako known their ;fm
preference. ill
The president made known his post- jl H
tion in order-to comply-with the Ohio -ir
primary low which requires candl- ijy
dates for delegates to the party con- . ff
ventlons to make known their first 'Sj
and second choices before February 'Jl j
25 and also requires, that the candi- j i
dates for delegates have consent .of j Hj
their choices to make use of their ' fL
names. j
The president was" formally notified i
of the requirements of the law last ' jj
week and today. he wrote Charles Q. ; lij
Hilderbrant, secretary of state of Ohio iJJJ,
as follows: jl -
"I am enclosing to you a letter, the Uj
occasion of which I dare say. will be j jl
quite obvious. Friends In Ohio have II '
called my attention to section 4,954 jl
of the general code of Ohio as amend-
ed in 1904 with regards to primary j
elections and have requested that I .
Indicate my willingness to have my
name used. jl
"I accordingly take the liberty of j v,
sending you the enclosed letter as .
formal permission under the statute."
President's Letter to Ohioans. il
The letter the president enclosed
was as follows: j
"While I am entirely unwilling to j
enter into any contest for the presl- IB
dential nomination of the Democratic U
party, I am willing to permit the use ill
of my name that the Democrats of I
Ohio may make known their prefer-
ence in regard to that nomination. ' n
"In order, therefore, to satisfy tho 111
technical requirements of the statutes U
of the state or Ohio, I hereby consent tt
to the use of my name as a candidate
for the presidency by any candldato I
who seeks to be elected a delegate to II
the national Democratic convention ,'lr
which is to assemoie in June next- u
This -was the first timo the prcsi- B
dent has consented formally to have IH
his name used in connection with, tho II
nomination. His name has been plac- M
ed on primary ballots in several
states, however, through the activities III
of friends.
Voters Must Decide.
Tho president takes the position
that the voters will have to determine fh
whether he will make tho race for the fl
presidency In 1916 as tho Democratic '
candidate. In a letter written to A. y.
Mitchell Palmer, then a representative Uj
from Pennsylvania, before his lnaug- M
uratlon, Mr. Wilson made It plain 1H
that he would bo a candidate again 1
only If the Democratic voters desired. P
It i
oo n
0 CASES I
SIPKMEDIlr
The verdict of the lower court, In J
tho case of F. M. Thomas vs. the Og- Lj
den Rapid Transit company, award- IJ'
lng the plaintiff a judgment of $4000, H
was sustained by the supreme court Lj
of Utah yesterday. The plaintiff sued J
to recover damages for personal in- i
juries. 8
Another action of local Interest, Ml
was the denial of the appeal of tho (W
Union Pacific Railroad company from 1
the judgment of tho district court of .'Il
Weber county, in its action against j
Preston A. Blair, Lars Hansen, J. P. 4 ,11
Blair, Simon S. Jensen, Stephen S. ' H
Blair and Seth M. Blair, stockhold- Wj
ers of the Blair-Hansen Livestock t lj!
company. The action was to recover J'JM
$11,000 alleged to be due on tho pay- Vim
raent for stock, the judgment of the .l
lower court being affirmed, the costs k
to be paid by the respondents, Justice M
Frick dissenting. I jj
J
