12th Starts To-Maht: Artilleru Gets Awau: 47th to Entrain
I
WtAJHi,nrthth t$tf UnljM 4 Ihunttf.
WMML
JH JTOTVOV
WMAL
Jg mo IT I ON
" Circulation Hook Open to AIL" I "Clmtfollon Hook Open tn All."
PRICE ONE OKNT.
NKW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28, 1910. 18 PAOE8
PRICE ONE CENT.
(it, (f. tiff 11nl.ll,
Wwt
CARRANZA MUST
QUESTION
1ST FIELD ARTILLERY ON ITS
.;, ', i .,,...,. . i i ii i i i 1 1 1 1 i i i 1 1 1 1 i i ii 1 1 i i.i i n ! iini iiiii.ii in i it i
sbbmsbbbt wftswa'saiisfisrBSsiBBisI '
ssssV
' sssss
12TH IMPATIENT IN ARMORY
AS BIG CROWDS AWAIT ITS
DEPARTURE FOR THE BORDEI
-Artillei N inen March Hmm Van
Cortlaiult Park aiut Take'
Trains at Yonkers.
Tim Twelfth Itegimcnt will entrain
for Hid Mi'Mi'.'iu bordur this owning.
.It nn ready to leave the armory at
3.30 o'clock, .is tlrst ordered, but a de
lay In the delivery of hor.ic imr
mules at llubuken, v Ihti- tint buys
are to start on t ho Iiela.vcre. Lacku
wanna and Western for Hruwnsvllli',
forced thorn to remain at the armory.
It was finally annouiicel that thc
would not leuvi them before C u'clook
.nnd would nut pet away from Hobo
ken before S o'clock. In th" face ni
this news thousands for relatives anil
friends of the guardsmen remained
outside the armory anil along the line
of march, bearing themselves with
he same patience thoy had shown
during the long HUbpcnso of the day.
Col, Clarence S. Wadsworth
planned a inarch fiom tlin armory
at Sixty-second Street and Columbus
Avenue ov r to Proadway, down to
Fifty-sixth Street, east to IVth Ave
ntio, down the Avenue anil Twenty
third Street and thence wist lo tile
Hoboken feiry.
Batteries U. H and which make
up the Second Hattallon of the First
Field Artillery, struck tliolr tents at
Van Cortlandt Park this afternoon
and nmrched to Yonkers to entrain
thej on tho Now Yoik Central for
the border. Thoy were under com
manU of Major .lamen li. Austin.
Thoilaiids of their loved ones nc
comnunlcif thuii) an they left tho camp
Kround and marched up Uroadway to
their trains.
Tho Third Ambulanco Corps, com
manrtod by Cnpt. Shorltt, and tho
I'irst Meld Hospital Corps untrained
(Continued on Second Papo.)
Till-: WOltl.K Tlt.WI.I, lit ItK.Xli,
Aren't" I'ullUfr iWorld) lluiUma.
fc tU l'4ik lloiv N. (.'it)
Titlitt. rerMt)'im, Mtllngi, An . in nil lit.
muiU. I'iMstwIu CVutril tii'l South .Imrncin
sttambii IIiim. lUtXiin uti iarcit rhivk mm
ovu dy nil Trarflifn' riii''Ri nt nioney
ditn tc( ltliphou, Utclrano 4000, Adrt,
T. R. CAN'T BE GENERAL
JUST AT THIS TIME i
Arm Oliicer Hays Tnere Arc Too i
Many "Deserving" Demo
crats, Who Want Hace.
WASfllNCTON. June 2S.--"Thoro
aro too many 'deservlm;' Pcmo-rats j
for the liovtrnment to take or Col.
Iloosuvelt Just now," said an army of
ficer to-day, dlscusslnir llooaovolt's
reported plan to raise a division for
.Mexican servlte.
Tho otllcer said the offer would be
Kindly accepted If volunteer nte
needed. As matters stand now, tho
(iuvernment can accopt no s, vices
except tlnne of tho tnllltiu and the
regular army.
TWO AMERICANS KILLED,
ONE CAPTURED, IN FIGHT
MK.XK'O CITY, .tune 13.- Two
Americans were killed nnd another
enptuie.il in a tlftht with Ameri
can cowboys near Nncorazl, Sonora,
eighty miles south of the border,
f Ion. Callcs roportcd to the War
Olllco late last nlcht.
Cnlles accused the Americans of
cuttltiB wire fences nnd c;mmlttlni?
other depredations. Whfn tho Mexi
cans protested tho Americans opened
tire, kllllnff two Mexicans, ho re
ported. The Mexicans returned the
lire, kllllntf J. P. Harkes and A. P.
Olckson. Morton Harden, another
American, was captured.
Callos reported that Harden ad
mitted his companions began ho
shootlnK.
OUIiilinmn Trunin Mnvr.
FOItT SI1,L, Oida, Juno The
drst detrii-hmcnts of the four hatterlrs
of the Fifth Field Aitlller, nrnler or
rler to proceed lo the burder, left the
Ton li'ie lo-diiy. It is pxpneteil that nil
four hatierle will hM' en'i.ilred In hi.
sorrow mornlnu.
OF WAR WILL GO TO
WAY TO THE
mi
Treiiii) Kcp.irtiM as Savin.?
They Will lie Shot if
i?cwue Is Attempted.
10 1 1 PASO. Tex., June ;'. F.xecu-tit-n
by a tlrintc sijuad will bu the end
of of twenty-live American prisoners
In Chihunhiia City, Gen. Trovlno Is
reported to h.ivo stated. If tho United
States armed forces attutnpt to rescue
the men.
"Mexico It prepnred fur war with
the United States."
ArrlvaN from Chihuahua to-day
quoted the Carranzlsta ci.mm.inder of
tho north ns inukln this threat and
declaration.
"We are not courttnf; war, but If
war conies the r,ons of Mexico will
respond to the cull lo arms to protect
tholr native land with their lives,"
Tie vino was quoted as saying.
"If tho American forces move on
Chihuahua and make any attempt to
rescue tho twenty. live nesro cavalry
men held prisoners by tho de fnctu
Government, they will be imej up
uufore the walls of tho penitentiary
and executed.
"If th American rorces make inv
attempt to attack the Carraiua sol
diers in the capital, they will be re
ceived by a rain of shot and shell
from the de facto Oovernmi tit tr.vnti
of which there are fully SO.dOO tn the'
state " 1
DEADLOCK STILL ON i
OVER MILITIA BILL,
Senate Holds Out Against Ap-'
propriation for Relief of
Families of Soldiers.
WVSHINOTOX. Juno 3S.-!nsst-ance
upon Its amendment to the 1
House military drafting resolution,!
striking out the million dollir relief
appropriation for dependents of en
listed men, was ordered by the Sen
ate to-day after a dlsnRrrenvnt on i
that Issue had been reported bv I'.s
conferees. 1
(For FUeinci rtsjults See Pane 2.)
(Entrlr on Page )
'i:sitoni: m MMr.it Tii;m uw.i:
n' N'imr ttr rir i rutrsl nil ml' mvj Kituiy
llnok rout u'n ftft Juns 3ott. Vlmv
Ublf now fd, Advt.
T JDL"ATL"MPriD!MP
iiiiuttimorm
SQUAD FOR THE 25
TROOPERS IN JAIL
BORDER, COL.
GERMAN PASSENGER
SUBMARINE SIGHTED?
Bast ni Gels Word That Vessel Sup
posed to He New Under-Sea
Craft Is Headed for That fort.
HOSTON, June :s.--The predicted
visit to a I'nlted States port by n
Cnrman transatlantic undor-oa boat I
is very likely to e.uii" true within a
few hours If the latest lepnrts from I
the Customs utllce outlook at (
ProMiii etown are correct. A report
was received at the lul olllcer's
offlci- here this noon that what was
lu'luiM'il to lie a Herman Mlbiiiailue
had been sighted headed fur Huston.
NOltFOMC, Va June I'S The Iiik
Thomas F. Tliumons, owned by tier
mnn Interests In llaltlinore. to-day
continued Its lone vi(rll threo tulles olT
Cape Henry, waltlns so the crew
says--thn arrival of the Inn heralde,
super-submarine from (lermin. The
under-sea boat with her ten pas
semtein should have arrived yislei
day, the crow says, but the b.nl
weather or the necessity for doditliiK
warships iiiobably has delayed her.
One theory hold Is that the Tim
moiiH Is only actliiK as a Kidding buoy
for the submarine, marking the tluee.
mile limit for the underwater craft.
Another Is that the submarine is
teally headed for New i,-k ..ml lh.it
tin- Tlmmons Is being u I to di.iw
llritish warships to the ugi:...i toast.
SWEDEN'S QUEEN IN PERIL
WHEN FRENCH DROP BOMBS
Duke .ii Haden ami hunilv Vir
r iwl Viss Death in
Mig Raid.
HlOltl I.N. 'June 2S.Thc (Jip en of
Sweden, daughter of the Clrand Duk"
of HaiUm; tho Orand Puke, the Orand
Duchess, Louise and the Uowagei
Orand Ouchoss of Hesse, were n
Karlsruho during tho recent air at
tack bv French flyers In which 110
persons were killed and 147 wounded.
The raid was made at S.to P. M
on Corpus Chnsti Day, the French
dropping bombs with poisoned darts.
The Qucfn of Sweden was In tin
castle but the other royal peron.is'i'H
were at chuich. The Grand Dut-hcns
Louise visited the wounded vhbe
bombs were still falling In Karlsruhe.
A largo crowd was In the streets
because of the holiday. Of the 110
killed. 75 were children, five women
nnd thirty men.
Jul, 4 Atluiillr fltj- l .N'n, Vnrli.
IVnn.iKnnl'l II It. In lirtllon I it,
ii r thrnnrh tram la I nir mhm; i"i,
I I A A M anil 3. .Til l 1 ...I..
will bt op,rt!3 it 4 6 10 P, M. A4vU
REPLY TO-NIGHT
MERRIT SMITH
7TH FINITC RRT
I III I IHUO lALOl
ACROSS 4 STATES
r, t.,,i'. 1 1:. Tunic
V.IIL .Millie IVIJtllVUt I III no i
Passenger Coach eat Into
Continuous ISerlli.
IKrtini KiptitiiK W.id'l stuff riirr',!'"f'l'iit "n
lloKfit ii'ii-nlli lit irniu'iit Sii.m1 )
COI,r.lllCS. O.. Juno Theie Is
a Distinguished Servlro Medal or a
decoration of sumo kind comlmc to n
man In th Seventh Itiglmeiit, If this
man ever can bo Identified. It's for
tho man who discovered that the
biiekn of seaU In an ordinary pnssen
gen coich can lie removed and laid
ll'it butrteen thu seats to make a bed
l.'p to the tlmo of this monumental
discovery tho Sevinth tried to bo as
"dandy" as It could, resting occasion
ally In a sort of cut-crouch position,
with absolutely no pluco for Its legs
except up around its armpit').
Then cam" the discovery, the sud
den stripping of ceat-backs and
their emplacement to fonu a con
tinuous berth the length of the cars.
With u sigh of relief that soon ne.
rame a snote, the illlcers and men
of the regiment unwound their legs
and stretched out in somuthlng like
comfort.
Through font Slates ti Seventh
Ii id tiled I" be comfortabli on the
end of Its spine, but when this iiioin
hi j cinie. i,fter ii night of full-length
rist, every heart beat high v. Ii'i en
thusiasm, lost for Juat a moment jei
tenlay when farewells were being
-ii Id and t'liger hands were cllnglni;
so tight to them and so unwilling to
release them.
Spirits were ind'-od high enough to
day t' permit relish of a rather grue.
loriie reminder which flashed pa.st tho
train In tho pmorama of moving
country Jusl outside the car windows,
("apt. J. Dcston Myers, Iteglmentnl
Quartermaster, was busy shaving and
as he glanced out of tho window as
the train whirled past tho outskirts)
of Pennlson, hf culled to those about
him:
"There's n eheerfll! before. breakfast
sight for us-look"
He pointed out to a smnU wiivvde
cetneterv with r)rmd Army rinc
waving over nm of the tn un.ls.
The men abou' Mini luugh. and
the next instant the mounds with
AFIER CAT-CROUCH
IN COMMAND
Mm m mm
VII I ICTA, PUICCC III AQMV
iilliu i n uiiili u hi nmn i
Awarding ol (Commissions Marked
In Great Celebrations and
Demonstrations.
WASHINGTON, June 2S. Otllcl.il
leportN that Vllllsta officers incarcer
ated In Carranz.i prisons are Indng
leleasul to .serve in the First Chief's
.irmj toadied the Nnvv Depailtuent
to il. I) .
Ailmli-nl W'lnsl i reiioitii la some
Inslancen Where these Vllllstlili have
been given eommlsiioiis the even' has
been inaiked by 'Ileal celebrations
and ileiiionstialions.
Wlnslow also reports civil authori
ties in several Western coast cities
have taken oter all supplies, regard
less of the needs of Amcilcun col
onists. 20 MEXICAN BANDITS
CAPTURED BY TROOPERS
IVisonerx Will Me Put in Wire
SUvkade Recently Ifrected
ai 0liimhr.
COM Mill S, N. M , June
Twenty Alt xi. .in bandtts capiurtd by
troops along i he Aiiiei'lcin lines near
101 .ille .ne being brought north
undi r gii.nd on a moior iruc'i train
The prisoners ur ei. eted to ar
rlie in Coliiuibiis to-nlghi and will
lieconllllld 111 the wile st iikade erect
ed some lime ug.i for such an emer
genc SIXTY-NINTH ROOKIES OUT.
Wear IMni'iirit on Mnrch I ruing
Oilier In : ii 1 1 il .
llfflii" in tbiiiK of the reel intillu ft'
Me Simi ninth Uealnient Arinoiv
Twhiiij -hi x t ii Street sod Islington Ave
mi", tiKiK to.ia-s r-rult i out on pa
rade IIik n I lei iidiiti. iniirrhlng them up
ale I dnvi li Seeond and Thlld Aveinies
wild slims over Ihtlr shoulders urging
otheia to Join the ranks. A batch of
2:'.', rceiiitis for Hid Slxtv-nlnth went iiii
to (Mint. Whitnuin esterdny to swell
the tanks 'of the regiment now encamped
there
their monuments and flags had flick
ered past.
Tho Kssex Troop of New Jersey,
which Is on tho way to l.'l P,iso Is
folic wing hard on the heels of the
Seventh and sharing In the dmnnn
str.itlnn of entluiHlasm which grow
with every community the trains pass
on tholr way to the border
Col. Kiel: received word lo-dity thai
the horse and mules which the r K
Army Inspectors had not passed In
time to be "nt with th" Seventh prob
iih.i wdl be started for UrownmllU
to. day.
CONGRESS
nrnouiMP'o rumor admv
mixoninu o m i wi mm i
I WILL ATTACK THE MEXICANS
i UNLESS CARRANZA YIELDS
No Reply Yet to
on Sunday for the "Immediate"
Release of the Troopers Captured
at Carrizal.
MEXICAN CABINET MEETS
TO DISCUSS THE CASE
(SpeoUl Dei patch to Thu Kvnnlng World.)
WASHINGTON, June 28, The note sent to Carraiua last Sunday
night by Secretary Lansing demanded tiie "immediate" release of the '
prisoners taken at Carrizal and called for an "early statement" through
diplomatic channels of the general tand taken by the Carr.in.a Govern
ment. 'Hie prisoners have not been released. Gen. Trevino is quoted in
despatches from HI Hajo as having defiantly said: "Let them come and
get the prisoners."
No reply has been received from Carraiua as to whether the pris
oners will be released or as to what stand he takes on the general rela
tions between his Government and that of the United States. The only
official news that has come from Mexico City is a short cablegram from
Special Agent Rodgers, dated yesterday, in which he said lie expected tq
receive Carranza's reply to-day.
The cablegram said it was believed llie .Mexican authorities were in
vestigating the Carrizal attair, but gave no indication ot what would be
the reply to the American demands.
It is tiie general belief in Washington that unless a satisfactory reply
is received by to-morrow morning President Wilson will go before Con
gress, state the entire situation, and ask for authority to order Gen. Per
shing to march to Chihuahua and release the prisoners by force. Such a
move would in all probability be followed by the sending of alt of the
regulars across the border as soon as the State troops are lined up along
the Texas line.
Public opinion in Washington is that the time limit set by President
Wilson in his own mind in which Carraiua may take action to avoid a
clash expires at midnight. Many officials declare an actual show of force
will be necessary to overcome the stubbornness of the Mexican First Chief.
"Thu President expressed the wish to me," Senator I.owls sold, "that
Ahntover dlscussloj thero might bo In Congress on the Mexican situation
oliould be. conducted entirely In a nun-purtlsuu manner,"
Cllseo Arredondo, on Inatructlona from the Carranza Foreign Omce,
made a complain1 to-doy at the State. Department ugalnst tho alleged arrest
and mistreatment of .".00 civilians at La Cruz by an American force 3,0tiu
strong on their march from San Ccronlino to I,a Vulle. It was accompanied
by n r"ucnt that tho otllcorn ronponslhlo bo punished and steps taken to
prevent a recurrence of such an Incident.
CARRANZA AND CABINET
TAKE UP WILSON'S DEMANDS
. -
Cable From Mexico City Says a Decision May
Be Reached in a Few Hours Nature
of Reply Not Stated.
MUX ICO CITY, June 28. A conferencH regarding President Wlloa's
demand for the roleusii of the Atnorlcan soldlerti Imprisoned at Chihuahua
City Is now In proBn-Fs. It 1b bollevod a decision will ho reached within
a few hours.
To a cheering crowd of 6,000 students,?'1
who waited upon him In tho Nutlonal I Facing the First Chief, the pokei.
Paluce late yesteid.iy to protest their ' man for the tudents eaJd: "Wo came
wIlllilgncK.'i to take arms against thu I to ask for an account of the act of
United States, First Chief Carrnnza the Government In connection with
promised a apeedy. emphatic reply to International affair."
rho note ilea patched last wei-k from
Washington In response to the Mei
Ican Government' second demand
for the withdrawal of the United
tuttt force from Mexico.
the Demand Sent
"In proper tlmo this will be done,"
Cnrrania answered, "We have no:
yet published the United States note,
for the reaion that It Is not an an
swer to our demand for the with
