FINANCIAL EDITION
h
NIGHT
EXTRA
uenm0
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. D.-NO1 247
PHIliADiJlJPHIA, "WEDHJSSDAY, JUNJU 28, 1 01G.
CortMnT, 1010. at Ttir Pcnio t.ttxici Courier.
GATHERING RECRUITS 'HERE TO FILL UP GAPS. AT MOUNT GRETNA
i:r!3f': HINT OF PEACE
lKHnHBIl AS CARRANZA IS
TEUTONS' FOES MiSBJJggfTOyaa URGED TO YIELD
IRUIANIA.GETS
!D17ATIVsTn IAIM
-llJUUl IU dVin
j&Danube Frontier Closed
by Sofia Government
t '
K5JTAGK:E.R0Mi NORTH .
KND SOUTH EXPECTED?
Wi. 1 .
Bucharest Dispatch4 Tells of
Special Session of .Cabinet
ana vvar umeia
J ' "
& '
Mnj. Robert Brookficld, of the 3d Regiment, at his. headquarters at
Broad and Chestnut streets, signing men to mnkc up tho quota of 200
needed by Philadelphia regiments.
VIENNA IN D I S-M A Y
Silfalfans Continue Smashing
urive wgainst. Austrians
in Trentino
By ED L. KEEN
LONDON, Juno ,28. Interest In the
'expected grand offensive of tho Allies
shifted temporarily today to the situa
tion in the Balkans, with tho revival
of reports that Rumania is preparing
to join the Allies.'
A heavily censored Bucharest dis
patch, telegraphed via Athens, reported
.that Bulgaria had closed her frontier
against Rumania. Bulgarian troops
vere 'reported to be . concentrating
long tho Rumanian frontier, on the
Danube.
The Evening News received a
Bucharest dispatch reporting that .the
Bumanian Cabinet, at a special ses
sion, took pertain stop3 as a result cf
Bulgaria's movement- .Rumanian mili
tary chiefs participated in the Cabinet
conference.
Vienna reports received at Amster-
dlara gave further explanation, for Bul
garia's warlike moves against Ru
mania, The BulgarB, VJennareported,
are uneasy because Greece -yielded to
the demands of the Allies. They fear
not only that ex-Premier Yenizejos will
return to power, swinging Greece to
the. side of the Allies, but that both
the Rumanian and Greek armies may
turn against Bulgaria, invading from
opposite sides while the Austrb-Ger-wans
are busy op other 'fronts.
Rome reports fresh .successes in the
Italian offensive: against the Austrlans
in Trentino. The Austrians have been
dislodged from every important posi
tion they occupied in Italian territory,
and General Cadorna'a forces push, to
ward! the enemy positions in Val
i Sugana. Heavy guns are in action
along the IsonzQ front,
Berlin dispatches today laid heavy
emphasis on the continued. bombard
nent of German lines dpposite the
British frpnt. The cannonade, Berjin,
believes, is a systematic attempt to
'Wreck German defensive works in
preparation for a great infantry onslaught.
Correspondents in. Switzerland re
ported today that the successes of Rus?
aa and Italian offensives are. causing
jN greatest consternation in Vienna.
The Austrians are- clamorlpg far the
abandonment of the Verdun pffeaiive
TROO
TOWARD SOUT
AGAIN di
Lack of Surgeons to Exam
ine Men Halts Departure
for Bor'der
MAY LEAyE TOMORROW
66 RECRUITS
GO T0;
COLORSm
ATOTY'SCALl
Men. Flock to Station,
Opened When Gen. Price
Calls for 150
Two Stops Planned in Philadel
phia Engineers' Stay in
Camp Indefinite
fiwitoaaj a pie rmr. Csbtwit Iff
Other ramp tm", notea and somId of the
troop will be found on pate 8.
By CARL L ZEISBERG
Bv a Staff Correspondent
HEADQUARTERS CAMP BRUMBAUGH,,
MOUNT GRETNA, Pa., June 28. The
departure of the 1st Brigade, commanded
by Brigadier General William G., Price,-Jr.,
for the front! was again delayed this after
noon. The Philadelphia troops probably
will not leave Camp Brumbaugh for El Paso
until tomorrow.
The scarcity of officers In the Medical
Reserve Corps Is given as the latest reason
for delay. They have not completed the
'examination of the troops.
While tomorprw has been determined
upon as the tentative time "for the departure
of the '1st Brigade, according to tho latest
Information available,- the time of the, de
parture of Company B,- engineers, remains'
In doubt.
The Philadelphia company of engineers
was scheduled to have left Colebr'ook at
noon. Their equipment was loaaeq on me
train, and the men were prepared to start
pn their five days' trip to the border, when
they were Indefinitely delayed by the "fail
ure of the United States army offlcera to
return the muster roll.
TWO REGIMENTS TO GO.
Two of the three Infantry regiments In
the 1st Brigade were ordered to the front
at tfte same (mte na the engtneeers, the Jigs,
pttal and ambulance corps, the. cavalry and
artllery. wd were to have passed through
Philadelphia Jate this ftemoon and tonight.
Definite announcement was made earlier
In tfe day of orders to leave the camp
today, but these were held up when, the
...... .i.inv occurred. Company B, the
Philadelphia Engineers, was to have been
th6 first of tne ruHnuwpum irvuyo vu
pats through their home, city. They were
..t.f..i.4 n arrive at Wayne Junction
between 3:S0 and 4,:SQ o'clock.
At Wayne Junction, tney were xo nave
,..., .referred from the Philadelphia and
Heading Jtallway. to .the Baltimore and Ohio,
.... ?..,.' Antr. hm in WfLshlnarton and
then tQ 8t- Louli1, A atconiX Btop WM eched"
Uled for 24th and Chestnut streets.
At both Wayne Junction and the Baltl.
", Ohio station relatives and friends
of the troops gathered long before" the hour
for the arrlvaJ ot the engineers.
Captain J- B- Kemper. U S. A., who has
,ftarg of sending the Pennsylvania troops
the border. maa uw wMwiwfc
' t' jne UsW hospital, pna ambulance, com-'
v i , j companies engineers, one resl-
CoalUiiui b fair two, CsIosb, T)ut
SECOND OFFICE OPENED
Senator Lewis and Burleson
Intimate Demands Will
Be Granted
DIPLOMATS ARE HOPEFUL
A4iiitioii-'-P-esauroB'in'ff
Brought: Upon Def Facto
Government
Mayor's Reception Room Utilized
to Relieve Congestion Exam
inations Set' for Afternoon
.Philadelphia gave a quick and satisfac
tory response to tho urgent appeal for re
cruits mado last midnight by Brigadier
General William G. Price, Jr., commander
ot the 1st Brigade, aria supplemented later
by Mayor Emlth.
At noon 66 men had enlisted and had. been
accepted, pending their passing .of the re
quired physical examination at 2 o'clock
'this afternoon.
Philadelphia was upbraided and asked to
send 160 recruits "at once." Major Robert
M. Brookfleld, of the 3d Regiment, hurried
here from Mount Gretna and opened a
recruiting station In tho Franklin National
Bank Building, Broad and Chestnut streets.
From the time the doors were.opened men
swarmed In and ,the work of recruiting was
tnot halted for a -minute. When the full
quota of'lEO'men will be obtained' Major
'Brookfleld would' not predict, but he ap
peared fully satisfied with the response to
the .call, i i
! When the 66th recruit had been accepted
the station was' crowded" an J more than 300
'men of all ages, all .eager and willing to
go to,, the front and fight for the country,
were outside. '
A second recruiting station was opened
at noon In City 'Hall to relieve the conges
tion at the central oRlce, This was decided
upon at a conference between Mayor Smith
and Major Brookfleld la the Mayor's office
n City Hall. .
, The Mayor's reception room. In the north
corridor ot City Hall; has been turned Into
the second station.
The Mayor designated Captain William
B, Mills to assist' the officer to be named
jjy Mayor Brookfleld to conduct recruiting
In the Mayor's reception room. Drlllmaster
Harry Crofut and Assistant Drfllmaster
"Harry Edwards, both of whom saw active
service in the army before they Joined the
Philadelphia police force, were, detailed' to
assist- Captain. Mills, ,
Both the Mayor and Major Brookfleld
were in .touch with General Price over the
lopg; distance telephony while they wre
(n conference, and l was at Jils suggestion,
that the second fflce was opened,
Recruiting ofricere were rushed here early
this morning, following the appeal made to
the Mayor by General Price over the tele.
phono. at midnight last 'night.
General Price. Upbraided Philadelphia for
(ailing ' to maintain Its' companies of Na
tional Guardsmen at a' full peace strength
of S5. and told the Mayor, while asking his
help, that the Philadelphia, troops could not
leave for the front until their ranks were
recruited tq th.e jenulred atxengtli,
The Mayor pron)U4 to Jasue aatroug ap-
WASHINGTON, June 28. Positive
statements that the United States and
Mexico will not go to wnr were made
at tho Capitol today by somo of the
most important Democratic leaders.
Aside from saying that the present
serious differences arc to be adjusted
by an exchange of notes, these lenders
would give tiol reasons for their state
ments. Members of large House com
mittees learned with great interest of
the reports" from Democratic members.
MEXICO .'CITY, June 28. A confer
ence regarding President Wilson's de
mand for the release of the American
soldiers imprisoned at Chihuahua City
is now in progress. It is believed a de
cision will be reached within a few
hours.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Juno 28. Gen
eral Funston today denied the prcs3
reports of a clash between the 11th
Cavalry and Carranzistas near Aim
mada. He said' if wounded Mexicans
had been taken to Colonia Dublan he
would already, have received General
Pershing's report.
WASHIN'PTOK. June 28. Senator
-James Hamilton Lewis, of Illinois, Demo
cratic whip of the Senate, nfter a confer
ence wlfh President Wilson today, said that
the Administration had received Intimations
through official channels that Genera) Car
ranza has taken up with tho Latin-American
diplomats In Mexico City the char
acter of his reply to the American ulti
matum. '
Carranza Is anxious. Senator Lewis said,
to get the support of the Latin-American
nations for his actions in dealing with the
crisis.
The majority of these diplomats; accord
ing1 to Senator Lewis, are counseling Car
ranza to .admit that General Trevlno went
too fr in carrying out his Instructions
when he ordered Games to attack .the 10th
Cavalry troopers. They have told him
that, even though, as he contends, the
Americans,, were the' aggressors, a battle
should have been avoided.
They also are said to be urging an lm
mediate compliance with the demand of the
United States for the release of these pris
oners, Senator Lewis said that so far there
.was no information as to what effect this
Advice was having on Carranza, but that
tho President hoped to receive the Carranza
reply tonight. In any event, Senator Lewis
said, the President will not wait beyond
poon tomorrow for Carranza .to act- When
he' goes to Congress the President simply
will place al of the facts before that ho,dy
and Jet It .decide what 13 to ba dgr.o. Sen
ator Lewis, said.
A hint that Carranza might at - the.
eleventh hour reverse his decision not to.
release the troopers also was voiced by Post
master General Burleson, but he refused to.
Intimate where he received bis Information.
As Indicating that the pressure at least
seemed to, ba having some effect was tho
declaration' 1?y the, Mexican embassy of-
Ceatinp d a (; Two, Clnmn One
QUICK NEWS
U. S. TROOPS MOVE TO OCCUPY HAYTIAN TOWNS
WASHINGTON, June 28. Kenr Admiral Cnperlon, command
ing American forces in Haiti, today reported to the Navy Depart
ment that Colonel Joseph H. Pendleton, of the Marine Corps, was
moving n largo force of marines from Puerto Platn, Santo Domlnso,
toward Santiago and La Vega to occupy those towns. No reason Was
assigned.
U. S. PROBES REPORTS OF GUN-RUNNING IN MEXICO
WASHINGTON, June 8. The Department of Justice today
began an investigation of reports that Spanish schooners in Florida
ports were believed to be loading arms and ammunition destined for
the Mexican Government. Agents of the department reported thnt
they believed munitions were being loaded nt Tampa, Miami and
1'cusncoln.
DUTCH STESHIP FOUNDERS? CREW LANDED
LONDON, Juno 28. The Dutch btcamshlp Waulstr'om has foun
dered at sea. Her crew was landed today.
U. S. MAY PROBE ALLIES' BOYCOTT ON NEUTRALS
WASHINGTON, June 28. President Wilson would be authorized
to ascertain how neutral countries nre affected by the recent Allies'
treaty boycotting the goods of neutral countries, by a Senate resolu
tion offered today by Chairman Stout, of the Foreign Eolations
Committee.
OCTOGENARIAN SERIOUSLY BURNED i
Mrs. Elizabeth Summer, 81 years of age, was seriously burned
when her dress caught fire from a stove in the kitchen of her home,
1117 South 01st street- She was taken to the University Hospital,
where the physicians hold out little hope of saving her life. ' If la
t'carctPfehc inhaled the flames.
AUSTRIAN HYDROPLANES BOMBARD ITALIAN TOWN
VIENNA, Juno 28. Two Austro-HunKarlnn.nuv.il aeroplanes have boraburdod
military works nnd factories in tho Italian city of Adria, tho Wnr Oillco announces.
Adrla is on n railroad 62 miles northeast of Bologna.
BULGARIAN ATTACK REPULSED BY ALLIES AT LOUMNITZA.
SALONICA, Juno iS. After llririg 2500 shells agalnut thef Allies' position in
tho region of Lbumnltza, in northern Greece, Bulgarian troops attacked, Jjut'wcre
beaten off. ,Bpth sides, mistnlnc'd heavy losses, , .A. ..., i -.
- -f, , , ,g-. . ' v : : (
AMBASSADOR PAGrE OFF FOR ROME; ALERT FOR PEACE
' WASHINGTON,- Juno 28. Thomas Nelson' Pago,, American Ambassador- to
Italy, now In this country, will leave for his' post Saturday with instructions from
Prcsldont Wilson to "keep an alert ear for pcaco tall: 'in Europe." Ambassador
Page admitted this today after a conference with President Wilson nt tho Whlto
House. "I havo not been instructed to begin peace activity,- however,'! he said.
LIEBKNECHT ON TRIAL FOR ATTEMPTED HIGH TREASON
BERLIN, Juno 28. Dr.. Karl Llobknecht, tho Socialist leader,- was placed on
trial before a court-martial today charged with attomptcd high treason. The charge
Brow out of speeches mado by Doctor Llebknccht and a manifesto which ho had
circulated attacking tho Government.
RUMANIA DISARMS REFUGEE AUSTRIAN TROOPS
BUCHAREST, Juno 28. Ton Austrian officers and 100 soldiers who fled into
Rumania beforo tho Russian advance In Bukowlna havo beon disarmed by tho
Rumanian military authorities.
SAXON MOB REPORTED FIRED ON IN FOOD RIOTS
BERNE. Switzerland, Juno 28. Reports havo reached hero .that serious rlotlny
occurred'ln Lelpslc at tho end of last wcok and that about 1800 shops, chletly those
of bakers, butchers and provision dealers, wero pillaged by mobs. It is said that
Czech soldiers brought from Austria Ilred on tho crowd and that martial law has
been proclaimed in Lcipslc and tho Duchy of Brunswick.
TWO ITALIAN SHIPS SUNK BY SUBMARINE
LONDON, Juno 28. Tho Italian steamships Clara and Aventino have been sunk
by a submarlno In tho Mediterranean. Tho Clara was a vessel of E503 tons plying
between Italy and the United States and Is believed to havo beon bound for America
when sunk. It was built In 1913 and lialled from Genoa. The Aventino was an
older vessel and displaced only 209 tons.
MT. VESUVIUS AGAIN IN ACTIVE ERUPTION
ROME, Juno 28. Vesuvius Is agnln In actlvo eruption, Naples dispatches re
ported today. Dense columns of srnoko aro nrlslng from new craters and a largo
number of residents of towns near Its baso are leaving their homos. Stromboll Is
also emitting unusually largo streams of lava.
PRESIDENT TO NAME COMMITTEE TOMORROW
WASHINGTON, Juno 28. President' Wilson beforo his scheduled departure
for Philadelphia tomorrow to epealt to tho ad men will announce his Campaign
Committee, Vance McCormick, chairman of the Democratic National Committee,
will return tomorrow and accompany tho President to Philadelphia and later to
New York, where the President is' to speak on Friday. The Democrats arc pro
paring for an early and thorough campulgn. Robert W. Woolloy, Director of
Mints, a former newspaper man, has been selected by McCormick to head .the
publicity bureau. McCormick plans to Introduce an educational campaign into
tho fight and will display moving pictures in different parts of the country.
PRUSSIAN LOSSES NOW PLACED AT 2,740,196
AjisfBRPAM, June 23, The latest Prussian' casualty lists, covering the period
from Jupft,8''to 20, bring the total of Prussian losses to 2,740,196, This figure Is
not believed 'to include the losses ic Verdun.
. ' T-
AUSTRIAN PLANE SHOT DOWN IN RAID ON VERONA
ROME, June 28. An Austrian aeroplane while bombarding Verona yesterday
morning was attacked and li.rp.ught down by Italian aircraft In the Chjampo Valley.
Another aeroplane, attacking Padua, wus driven off by anti-aircraft artillery.
m 9 ' ' i ' u u
U, S. WINNING SWISS TRADE FROM GERMANY
BERNE, Juno 28. Swiss Industries using, machinery have taken united aotlgn
for the purchase of supplies from the United Statin;- instead ot from Germany
as .formerly. The action is tho result of a continued rise in German prices, and
the presentation of new claims for payment In French franca instead qf in Ger
man marks at a low exchange rate. Negotiations haye, been opened wjth Ameri
can consuls In Switzerland. , ...
BRITISH ASK U. S. TO qUARD SHIPS FROM PLOTTERS '
LONDON. June 2s. Representations have been made to the United Statqs con
cerning attempts which 'lave ber made by Gorman sympathizers in the United
States, to. blow up with bvQ)bs vessels of the Allies in Amertcpn parts. Sir Edward
Grey. Foreign Secretary, admitted In the House;-of Com.-norn that the Vvtvfcit
Office had cotnmunlca,te4 with tho American Ooeri.rceut, H aWed tbAt. AitlwugU
he coviid not say the tho attempts would cease, proper precautions to prevent
repetition of the attempts hd been taken.
PKIOB OtfJB CENT
T. LOUIS WINS
AD CONVENTION
FOR NEXT YEAR
Big Demonstration Follows
Victory for Missouri
City
FOUR CITIES IN RACE
Whu St. Louis Won
1917 Ad Convention
tS. Louis has coliseum seating
12,000 persons.
Has Washington University with
$15,000,000 equipment nnd 27 de
partmental buildings for meetings.
Has one great central hall, seating
3000 persons.
Has first-class hotel accommoda
tions, capable of caring for tho
needs of a large number of delegates.
Has a bsautiful park system of
moro than C000 acres.
at. Louts won tho 1917 convention of the
Associated Advertising Clubs of tho World,
followlnj; an exciting contest which wa
participated In by Cincinnati, Den-cr nnd
St. Paul, Minn.
Dolccatlons from tho contesting cities
nrgued jtliclr ciscn In an executive session
bo'foro tho -presidents of the various nd
clubs represented at tho convention, Ad
men from ench of the four cities In tho race
made eloquent appeals that tho convention
honor bo awarded their city. Letters and
telegrams of Invitation wero presented from
Governors and other prominent Stnto and
city ofllclal3.
The voto for tho 1917 convention follow:
St.' Loul3, 67 J Cincinnati, Sfi; Denver, 4,
and St., Paul, 1.
In making a pica for tho 1917 convention,
the representatives from St. Louts set forth
that St. Loula has "tho finest hotel accom
modations of nny city seeking tho conven
tion. Other inducements presented wero
St. Loula' colisoum. seating 12,000; Wash
ington University, with Its $15,000,000
equipment; 27 departmental buildings for
meetings; one groat central hall, seating
3000, and a park system of mora than 6000
ncres. . - '
Since the opening of the convention it was
generally understood that St. Louis would
carry off tho convention honors. Most all
of the delegate'3 wore certain of that today
when it becaqie known that New York and
.Chicago, had thrown their votcu to. Bt-Louls.-
Both Cincinnati nnd Denver put up a
plucky fight. Tho Cincinnati men pfishted
thc&o Inducements: - .Mo3tJ):entralIy located
city in tho United States; only one night
ride from anywhere ; stadium with seating
capacity of 20,000; University of Cincinnati
Buildings; almost raised 'tho required
.?25,000 fund l have been preparing for the
convention for-nix mdnths.;
.HOUSTON UNOPPOSED.
There wero cheering and other expres
sions o fcnthuslasm in tho executive session,
whn a delegate announced that ho under
stood theer would be no opposition tomor
row to tho ro-clectlon of Herbert S. Hous
ton as president of the Associated Advertis
ing Clubs of the World. The following were
nominated for, tho Executive Committee:
William Ganson Rose, of Cleveland ; W. W.
Cloud, of Baltimore, and Frank E. Rowe,
of Toronto, Canada.
Tho general session opened In Convention
Hall Commercial Museum, with Lafayette
Young, Jr., presiding. There was an in
vocation by the Rev. J. M. Corrlgnn, and
then there was an open forum In which
many delegates participated. At the con
clusion of the forum M. S, Kimball, prcs
ldont of the Plymouth Advertising Club, of
Plymouth, Mass., and chairnan of the Com
mittee on Programs of the Associated Ad
vertising CluL-3 of the World, delivered an
Inspiring address on "Laying Out. a Year's
Club Program In Advance." The address
was particularly significant; as It dealt with
many of the problems with which adver
tising clubs are wrestling all over the.
country.
Tho creation ot a "red-llcht district,"
with- certain definitely known segregated
spaces for questionable advertising as a
means ot weeding out the unreliable adver
tisers and creating confidence in advertis
ing was advocated by Merle Sidener. ot
Indianapolis, chairman of the National
Vigilance Commlteu of tho Associated Ad-
Continued onl'ase Twelve. Column live
OMtEGON DENIES THAT VILLA
WILL JOIN CARRANZA AU3IY
El Paso Reports Uniformly -False,
Says. Mexican War Minister
MKXICO CITY. June 28. War Minister
Obregon today branded as a "fake" th
report circulated In the United States yes
terday that Villa had tendered his service
to the Constitutionalist forces and that th
tender hud been accepted.
"Pay no attention to El Paso reports,"
cald General Obregon. "They are unk
formly fabrications. Furthermore, Villa,
If alive, Is outlawed and comes under th
proclamation refusing amnesty to him and
others of like character-"
THE WEATHER
FQBECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
tonight and Thursday; moderate tt-'.
peraturcs and decreasing humidity;
lighti northerly wind.
LOST- AND FOUND
OKOOOH JUMi
and Cheiwii
MP1
from Narfcertn to Uta
si Buuan a rv-uH'
ctd diamond MM
j,w.-i If ruir&i -
suTvsS SPKvAeOe 'Sft'W tt uut $
JTti.. Uucutt and Snnte. .W.tJ wflij
elvJ iMMM.!" Jj wJc
OtbtT L ae4 'vw4 4U !' it
I
