THIS PAPER Inued in
Two 8ectlons Section!
two—Pages 1. to 8—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Oenison
locals.
VOL. 51
II. S. MAY ATTACK
CARRANZA ARMY
UnSess Carranza Prison&a Are Re
leased Hostilities May Open Be
fore End of the Week.
WILSON IS GROWING IMPATIENT
Every Day's Delay Finds the Military
Forces Better Prepared—Mobili
zation Is Rushed.
WASHINGTON, June 27—Unless
General Carranza surrenders the twen
ty-three American troopers held tit
Chihuahua City before tomorrow Pres
ident Wilson probably will go before
congress Thursday to ask for authority
to rescue them by force. Pending their
release, the United States government
will .not consider any offer of media
tion or arbitration. •.
The president is growing impatient
and it is said unofficially that hie will
not delay decisive action longer than
forty-eight' hourp.
The most, likely move, it if believed,
would be the hurling of a large force
of the regular troops over the border
and a direct march upon Chihuahua
City. General Pershing's forces would
co-operate in such a move.
No Reply in Sight.
The state department had no inti
mation tonight as to when a reply to
th? note sent Sunday,- demanding im
mediate release of the soldiers, might
be expectod. It was delivered at 11
a. m. yesterday. Special Agent Rodg
ers in Mexico City has been unable to
forecast the action of the de facto
authorities.
Prompt compliance by congress
with any request the president may
make as to Mexico was foreshadowed
today by the calm which prevailed .'n
both houses, although measures 1e
8igned to prepare for war were untler
consideration and the corridors of the
fcapitol hummed with rumors. The
legislative branch of the government
was pluinly waiting to do its part
when what the majority regarded us
inevitable should come.
Arredondo Complains
Glizeo Arredondo, Mexican ambassa
dor designate, said he had received ii3
intimation of the course his govern
Ynent intended to pursue, and had not
even been adVise'd of the receipt of the
note. On.,vMs
OWH
responsibility,
however, he sent to the state depart
ment two communications. One com
plain* agatnst the enforcement of a
general embargo on shipments to Mex
ico the other recites that Mexican cit
izenshave been arrested without cause
in California and Arizona.. They warn
Secretary Lansing that the present
'Situation between the two governments
Cannot fail to be gravely aggravated by
these 'matters.
Efforts to sound administration of
ficials anew today as to their at.tl|
tude toward some form of arbitration
met with a chilling reception. Charles
A. Douglas, recently employed as Car
ranza's legal adviser here, called on
Counselor Polk at the state depart
ment. He and Dr. Victor A. Pendon,
head of the Yucatan sisal commission,
had received word from Luis Cabrera,
the Mexican finance minister, that Gen
eral Carranza was disposed to appeal
to the arbitration provisions of the
treaty of 1848, provided the United
States was willing to submit the dis
pute to peaceful negotiations.
Mr. Douglas is understood to have
suggested that arbitration could well
be employed to fortnulate a definite
question between the two governments
which in turn might be settled by medi
htion. He left the conference with the
clear Impression that the Washington
government would listen to no media
tion suggestions.
Only One Action Possible
It has been very plainly Indicated
that unconditional1 surrender of the
American prisoners held at Chihua
hua would be thb only immediate gtep
Carranze could take to avoid hostili
ties. Whether a mediation proposal
might be considered after their re
lease Is a matter of speculation.
There is reason to believe, however,
that no plan which would involve ham
pering of General Funston's disposi
tion to guard the international line
from raiders would be considered.
The state department late in the
day received its first official news of
the cavalrymen.
Arredondo's Family Leaves.
While Ambassador Designate Ar
redondo continues to preserve a calm
front, the possibilities he sees in the
present crisis are indicated by the
fact that his family is enroute toward
the Canadian border. In the event of
a break it is believed possible he will
turn over the records of the embassy
to the French ambassador.
There were indications at the war
department during the day that mili
tary censorship may be expected to
tighten at any time. Officers showed
increasing disinclination to talk of
troop movements, even of the prog
ress being made with mobilization of
the national guard. Secretary Baker
expects to have his army press bu
reau in operation shortly and through
it will be given out all that It is de
sired to be known.
Army Better Prepared.
Every day's delay in what seems the
Inevitable break in relations with the
Mexican government sees the army in
better position for the swift action
that may follow. This has influenced
against pressing matters to an imme
diate issue.
Clean Sweep in Our GroceryDepartment
Club No. 1
1 can of DiamondS peaches, regularly sold at 30 a can,
priced at $ .25
5-pound boxes of laundry starch for .23
2 pounds of prunes for 17
With the above list of groseries we will sell you one 48
pound sack of our famous Masterpiece flour for 1.19
Making a total of $1.84
Club No. 2
2 cans of pink salmon $ .25
4-pound package of rolled oats for 22
.3 ten-cent packages of corn flakes for- .25
6 bars of white borax naptha laundry soap for .25
2 No. 2h cans of pork and beans for .25
With the above list of groceries- i*e will sell one 48
pound sack of our famous Masterpiece flour for 1.19
Making a total of $ 2.41
Club No. 3
One 5-pound can of Peaberry coffee
2 No. 2 cans of peas for
2 No. 3 cans of tomatoes for
With the above list of groceries we will sell one 48
pound sack of our famous Masterpiece flour for $ 1.19
Making a total of $ 2.88
A WEDDING OF
UNUSUAL BEAUTY
Lovely June Wedding Solemnized This
Morning in Carriage of Miss Bianld
Lally to' Mr. Leon Powers
CHURCH A BOWER OF BEAUTY
Many From Ou|t of City Attend Wed
ding—Honeymoon Will Be Spent
in Chicago and Elsewhere.
The loveliest of June weddings and
one of unusual beayty and much inter
est socially was celebrated at nine
o'clock this, Wednesday, morning when
Miss Blanid Lally and Mr. Leon W.
Powers were united in marriage at the
St. Rose of Lima church, Kev. Father
Farrelly officiating. It has been both
his privilege and pleasure to christen,
confirm and marry this beautiful
young woman, and Father Fari^liy
read the solemn ritual of the church
with the full dignity of his office.'
Society has "been in a social whirl
in extending courtesies to the bride
and all of the guests' were on the qui
vfve toi witness' tlie ceremony. Rare
ly has a church looked more beauti
ful than on this perfect June morning.
The decorations were planned and ex
ecuted both at the house and church
by Miss Lydla Belle Kuehnle and the
evidence of her exquisite taste ful
ly justified the generous encomiums
paid them. That June is the month of
roses as well as of h^ppy brides was
evidenced by the profusion of roses
and ferns used everywhere. The col
ors chosen' by the bride, pink and
blue, were carried out consistently.
The long center aisle of the church
was tied with pink and blue ribbons
joined by smilax and roses. A large
arch over the center aisle and two
on the side, enclosed with pink flow
ers matched the one near the altar.
The guests entered from the side aisle.
The altar rail was covered with smi
lax and this was surmounted by a
tulle. In front of the altar, which was
decorated with white flowers, were
two white kneeling benches and the
entire effect was beautiful and artis
tic. A beautiful cross stood on a ped
estal twined \ylth pink tulle and smi
lax an dthis. was surmounted by a
cross made entirely of white roses.
Such elaborate otj effective decora
tions had never been used for a church
wedding here and indeed they would
have been more than creditable to
the professional decorator.
The music was in charge of the
bride's Sister, Miss Beatrice Lally and
as given by 'her and the remainder
of the choir was music long to be re
membered. The music was as fol
lows: the Nuptial High Mass was open­
$ .65
$1.22
$1.25
.19
.25
$ 1.69
THE DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28, 1916
ed by the choir singing Peter's Kyrie,
which was suing by Mrs. Edward Flynni,
Of Sioux City, Miss Beatrice and Leni
han Lally. Miss Mary Lally presided
at the organ and was assisted by Mr.
Barborka and Mr. Saley, violinists.
During the offertory Lambillote's Ave
Maria was sung and this was follow'
ed with Millard's Beni Creator.
During the playing of the Mendell
solin wedding march the wedding party
started down the long white aisle. First
came the groom, Leon W. Powers, and
best man, Delos Schull, of Sioux City,
a law classmate of the Chicago Uni
versity and fraternity brother of Mr.
Powers. Then followed the ring bear
er, Bobby Brannon, dressed in white
and carrying the ring upon a
pink
satin pillow surmounted by a blue
tulle bow. Then followed like a dream
of lovliness, the four bridesmaids, all
of whom with the maid of honor, Miss
Inez Lally, were 1'i Phi sorority sis
ters of the bride. The first brides
maid was Miss Ei-ma Naeve, wearing
a gown of pink taffeta combined with
silk net. The skirt was in three rut'-'
fles with fitted bodice and angel sleeves
of net and with shoulder ruffles of
pink silk net. Her hat was trimmed
with pink roses and malines. She
carried a basket decorated with blue
malines and filled with pink roses
with a shower of blue tulle ribbons
and blue forget-me-nots.
Miss Lydia Belle Kuehnle was the
second bridesmaid, beautiful in blue
crepe combined with Georgette orepe.
The skirt was in bouffant panniers
caught with pink rose buds. The bod
ice was of heavy silver lace over blue
with a fichu adorned with silver em
broidery and tiny garlands of rose
buds. Miss Kuehnle wore a shepherd
ess hat trimmed in pink roses with
picot ribbon streamers. The basket
carried by Miss Kuehnle was filled
with pink roses and larkspur tfed witli
pink ribbon and had, a shower of pink
rose buds tied with pink ribbons.
Next followed Miss Florence Brad
ley, of Cedar Rapids, wearing a charm
ing gown of pink cr^pe combined with
lace and chiffon. Her hat was a white
leghorn trimmed with* pink roses in
great profusion. The basket carried
by Miss Bradley was trimmed with
blue malines and filled with pink ros
es ,a'nd pale blue larkspur. From the
basket hung a shower of forget-me-nots
and blue ribbon.
The fourth and last bridesmaid was
Miss Clara Scriver wearing a blue
crepe •gown made with three plaited
ruffles on skirt. Her bodice was trim
med with pink, velvet ribbon and cream
lace witlr angel sleeves. Her hat was
a white leghorn with pink roses and
ribbon. Miss Scriver's basket was fill
ed with pink rrfses and a yhower of
pink rosebuds.
The next in line was the maid of hon
or, Miss Inez Lally looking exceeding-
(Continued on Page Three)
A CONTINUANCE US WEEK OF OUR JUNE CLEAN SWEEP SALE, SET?
We want to make this sale one long to be remembered, and the different club lots of groceries, the furniture and the shoes are so priced that
they will mean great savings on each purchase. We are doing everything in our power to keep down the high cost of living. Merchandise
is on the advance. Prices have advanced from 25 to 30 per cent, and in some instances as high as 50 to 100 per cent. Give special at
tention to our prices on groceries and meats and take advantage of them. Read our big clean sweep ad on next page.
Clean Sweep in Our Shoe Department
Offering Women's, Misses' and Children'* slippers and men's ox
fords at clean sweep prices for this week only
Clean sweep on misses' Mary
Jane patent leather slippers, shown
with the ivory sole and heel.
(a) Sizes 5* to 11, $2.75 value,
clean sweep at $1.69.
(b) Sizes 114 to 2, $3 value, clean
sweep at 1.79.
Mrs. King's patent leather san
dal slippers' for children, shown
with one strap, sizes 2 to 5. $1.25
value, clean sweep at 69c a pair.
Mrs. King's 2-strap buckle patent leather slippers.
[a] Sizes 2 to 5. $2 values, clean sweep at *1.19.
[b] Sizes 6f to 8, $2.50 values, clean sweep at $1.69.
All Women's Slippers and Shoe* Offered for This Week
Your choice of oilr entire stock of #5 and $5.50 slippers and shoes
at *3.95.
Clean Sweep on Men's Oxfords
Your choice of any men's oxford
in sjtock,'-in tan ar gun metal, rub
ber or leather sole, for this week
only at 3.95 a pai r. These are only
our $5 and $5.50 slippers we are of
fering at clean sweep prices for
this week.
Menagh's Store
INDEPENDENCE
DAY JULY 4TH.
Will be Quiet Day in Denison, With
Most of the Business Houses of
Citiy Closed for the Day.
MANILLA & DOW CITY CELEBRATE
Number of Private Picnics in Nearby
Groves—Big Dance at Brueder
schaft Hall in the Evening.
The fourth in Denison will be a quiet
day, there being no celebration, but a
number of our citizens are planning
to attend the celebrations at nearby
towns. Roth Manilla and Dow City
will observe the national holiday and
line programs have been arranged at
both places and doubtless many peo
ple from here will celebrate at these
places.
A number of picnics out in the near
by groves haVe been planned by resi
dents who believe in celebrating a safe
and sane fourth, while others are
counting on automobile rides to the
lakes and some of the larger cities.
Sioux City will attract a number of lo
cal people, who will attend the big
automobile race scheduled to be held
there with many of the noted drivers
of the country pitted against each
othe.-.
On the evening of the fourth a grand
ball will be held at the Bruederschaft
hall in North Denison which will at
tract a large number of people, not
only from Denison but from'the sur
rounding territory. There will be many
private displays of fireworks in the
evening here in Denison for the enter
tainment of the little folks as well as
for fond parents. Some of the busi
ness men of Kiron have raised a con
siderable purse for the purchase of a
quantity of fireworks and every one
is cordially invited to witness the
display.
Most of the business houses in Den
ison will be closed all day to permit
clerks and employes to enjoy an out
inii.
A young married woman residing in
South Denison attempted to commit
suicido Sunday forenoon by eating a
quantity of match heads, but fortunate
ly was discovered by the relatives in
time to. call a -physician yho was able
to save her'vltfe after considerable ef:
fort. The girl is not yet out of her
teens and only last summer was'mar
ried to a traveling salesman and for
a time we understand resided at Des
Moines, returning to Denison a month
or so ago to reside with her mother.
No reason for the attempted suicide is
given.
INSPECT HARLAN MONUMENT
Committee From John A. Logan Po$t
G. A. R. Visit Harlan and In
spect the New Monument.
A committee of John A. Logan Post,
under the command of James Rollins,
Commander of the Post consisting of
James Rollins, Theo. Walker, T. J.
Shopshire, W. A. McHenvy, S. 3. Kite,
V. Sowles and John Bather, of Ma
nilla, visited Harlan Tuesday for-the
purpose of inspecting the monument
being erected there in honor of Die
veterans of 1801 to 18U5. They found
upon arrival there that tliev had been
misinformed in reference to the com
pletion of the monument and only
found the foundation completed. The
erection of tiiis beautiful monument
has been delayed owing to the fact
t'-at much of the material has not ar
rived. It had been intended to dedi
cate the monument at Harlan July
Fourth, but un:ess the remainder of
the material comes this week they
will not De able to do so. The commit
tee was very much pleased .vitli the
looks of the blue prints a.n-1 think it
will be a very satisfacto one to fol
low in the erection of tne monument
for Vraw.'i rd county which the board
o' supervisors has madi possible.
GUESTS OF BUICK FACTORY
E. R. Reimers and John Rusterholz
Return From Big Time at Buick
Automobile Factory.
Messrs. Ed. Reimer and John Rus
terholz returned home Saturday from
a five days' trip tendered by the Bu
ick company to its agents in Iowa, Ne
braska and South Dakota. Over three
hundred Buick dealers availed them
selves of the opportuity to visit the
big factory at Flint, Mich., and made
the trip on a special train composed
of sixteen cars wholly at the expeuse
of the Buick company. The train was
made up of Pullman cars and the
guests partook of their meals in an
elegant dinner. From Omaha the spe
cial went directly to Chicago where
a brief stop was made, then on to
Flint where a day and a half was
spent going through the factory giv
ing the guests an opportunity of see
ing the process of manufacture. Mr.
Reimers tells us that with the excep
tion of the wind shields, glass fronts,
carburetors and spark plugs, the en
tire machine is manufactured by the
Buick people. Front JFlint th? spe
clal train went to Detroit whera the
dealers were the guests of the Mor
gan and Wright Tire Co., where they
were royally entertained. R. Brock
elsby, of Vail, and Ben Quatthamer,
of Buck Grove were also guests of the
company from this county.
Clean SweepSpecials in Our Meat Department
Our fresh pan.pork sausage specially priced at, per pound 13ic
Our fresh hamburger specially priced at, per pound 18c
Fresh wieners specially priced at. two pounds for 28c
Extra fancy lean pork chops specially priced at, per pound 192c
Fresh home made bologna priced at, per pound 12$c
Friday Specials
Tulibee white fish priced at, per pound I8fc
Pickerel priced at, per pound 18 J$c
Saturday Special
Extra fancy shoulder beef roast specially priced at, per .lb 131c
New'potatoes 39c per peck. $1.50 per bushel...
Final Clean Sweep in Our Furniture Dept
Offering all mid-summer furniture, porch furniture and ham
mocks at a discount of one-fifth from the regular price. It will
pay you to take advantage df this offering.
Clean Sweep on Refrigerators
Offering every refrigerator in our stock at a 'discount of one
fifth from the regular prices.
Please mention The Re
view when answering
"Classified Ads." This
courtesy will be appre
ciated.
Man Named Harris, Who Came to Den
son With Carnival, Abuses Wife
and Gets itno Trouble.
PAYS $20.00 IN DAMAGES TO CAFE
Leaves Town and Wife Continues With
Show—Cecil Hecht Proves to be
a Second Jess Willard.
A family row staged at the Milhek
cafe Tuesday nopn proved most excit
ing for the patrons of that popular
eating place and before the curtain
was rung down several of our promi
nent business men took a hand in it
and helped the proprietors to eject the
offender from the building, but not un
til ,after one of the expensive glass
counters had been broken into a hun
dred pieces.
The trouble wab caused by a man
by the name of Harris who came to
Denison with the Ed L. Heinz Carni
val company, being associated with
the 49 camp, and who had planned to
meet his wife at another cafe and not
finding her there went to the Milhek,
where she was seated at one of the
small tables with a young lady com
panion. He took her to task for not
being where he had told her to meet
him and continued to abuse her until
she broke down and cried. He went
to the counter to partake of his din
ner and when she got up from the
table to leave he rushed over to her
and shoved her down into a chair, de
manding .that she remain there until
he had finished. Later she went to the
counter and took a seat beside him,
only to be upbraided again for her con
duct and then she fainted. It was at
this -point that Cecil Hecht, one of the
proprietors, became interested in the
affair and told Harris that he did not
propose to have him treat his wife in
that manner. Harris grabbed a glass
and threw it at Hecht, but fortunately
he missed his mark and the glass land
ed on the counter, breaking It. Hecht
landed on Harris with an upper ct}t
that would do credit to Jess Willai'd
and several business men attacked htm
from the rear and before he was taken
from the building he had received a
beating he will not soon forget.
Harris Wis taVen^fdre Mfcyor Lonto
Tuesday afternoon and upob promise
that he would pay $20 to the cafe Mr
the damage he had caused, was liber
ated. We understand that he left yes
terday afternoon for Tipton to recup*
erate while his wife remained here to
take part in the carnival.
•'$
•a
No. 26
STARTS TROUBLE
AT THE MILES
V:'S$
a
vs
•A
'•'k
ii'
"1
V. -V
3
-i
1
n:
