Vol. 45 No. 25
BARTON, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY JUNE 28, 1916
Single Copies 5 Cents.
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING
Advertisements will be inserted under this
head at f m o cents per word for first insertion
and one cent per word thereafter. Cash
must accompany the order. -Ao advertise
ment will be inserted for less than tiventy-Jive
cents.
FOR SALE
FOR SALE 18 cows, two bulls,
three yearlings. A. S. Gilmour, Barton.
26tf
FOR SALE Ford tour ng car, price
low if taken at once. - Bassett & Stan
nard Garage, Orleans. 25-26p
FOR SALE Five-year-old Morgan
mare, safe and sound, weight 1000
pounds. G. L. Merriam, Barton. 19ft
FOR SALE Pure bred Jersey bulls
all ages to 18 months. D. G. Speir,
Greensboro. 26-28
FOR SALE All kinds farm ma
chinery. Second-band lumber wagon.
M. Freehart, Orleans. lOtf
FOR SALE My farm oi the Wil
loughby road. registered Ho! stein
stock and tools. Charles E. Pierce,
Barton. lltf
FOR SALE Open buggy in good
cndition, used one summer. Inquire
at Elliott's paint shop. C. M. Lyon.
25-27p
FOR SALE House, barn and lour
acres of land in South Albany village.
Buildings and land in good shape.
Blacksmith shop on property. Address
H. A. McGuire, Irasburg, admr. D.
R. Cobb estate. 2o-27p
FOR SALE Forty registered Jersey
cows. Heifers and calves, at reason
able prices. Also a few bull calves
from dams of six and eight thousand
pounds at twenty-five dollars each.
Hill Crest Farm, Lakeport N. H. 26-28
WANTED
WANTED Live poultry. Elrick,
Barton. 18tf
WANTED Yearling Guernsey bull.
H. J. Frazier, Coventry. 24tf
WANTED
ery at once,
burg.
- Man to work in cream
J. A. McCaffrey, Iras-
23tf
WANTED Stone, brick and cement
work at reasonable price. John Miller,
Barton. 23tf
WANTED 100 live fat hens. High
est cash price. N. W. Strawn, Or
leans. Bell 'phone 142-12. 25tf
WANTED All around tinsmith and
plumber. Whipple, French & Co., Or
leans. 15tf
MISCELLANEOUS
FARMERS NOTICE No stock taken
Monday, July 3d. Dodge, Orleans, lw
See ad of Registered Holstein stock
on page three for sale by W. E.Hanson
and G. S. Dodge. lw
Am ready to do any kind one-horse
job work at 30 cents per hour. In
quire, Charles Courchaine, High street,
Barton. 25-27p
f I ONLY 25 CENTS for large load dry
shavings at our mill in Orleans. Also
six-foot edgings at 75 cents per cord at
the mill. E. L. Chandler Co., Orleans.
21tf
TO KENT
TO RENT One tenement on Park
street. C. A. Nute, Barton. 24-26
TO LET New up-staira tenement
to small family. E. C. Brennan, Or
leans. 26tf .
TO RENT First class office in bank
block for rent. Apply to Central Sav
ings Bank & Trust Co., Orleans. 26tf
LOST
LOST Brown female dog, shepherd
collie. J. F. Labouuty, Barton. R. F.
D. 2. 26-27p
NOTICE.
A quantity of local news from a half
dozen towns and some advertising copy
is omitted from this issue, owing to the
late hour on which copy was received
and exigencies in the office.
Methodist Episcopal Church Notes.
Rev. I. A. Eannet, Pastor
You are cordially invited to attend
all services.
Morning worship, 10.45.
Sunday school, 12 o'clock.
Epworth League, 6 o'clock.
Evening service at 7 o'clock.
Congregational Church Notes.
Rev. "W. A. Warner, Pastor
Sunday, July 2 :
10.45, morning service.
12.00, Sunday school.
6.00, Christian Endeavor meeting.
7.00, union service. Sermon by Rev;
I. A. Ranney.
Thursday, TJuly- 6, evening service,
The Christian Patriotism." Luke 19:
28-48 ; Ps. 137.
The sacrament of the Lord's Supper
will be observed next Sunday.
There will be no further evening
preaching service, except the union
meeting next Sunday, until September.
School Meeting Friday Evening.
The annual meeting of the voters of
the Barton Academy and Graded School
district, incorporated, is warned to be
held in Alumni hall in the old school
building Friday evening. The warning
contains nothing out of the ordinary
unless it be the question of medical in
spection of the school as provided by
law. The question before the voters
is, shall we have medical inspection?
There is much of interest in the re
ports of the various teachers ar-d
officials. The trustees written report
points to the fact that all the rooms in
the new building are now occupied and
some room used in the old building,
and further states that the time is
near at hand when each grade must
have a room of its own and this will
mean the further crowding of certain
departments into the old building.
Reception to Grand Matron Pierce.
On Friday evening, Orient chapter,
No. 13, O .E .S . devoted their regular
meeting to a reception in honor of Mrs.
Florence Kent Pierce, and to which
all Past Matrons and Past Patrons of
the chapter were especially invited.
Mrs. Pierce was elected Grand Matron
of the Grand chapter O. E. S., at the
meeting held in Burlington recently
and the local chapter wished to show
their appreciation of this honor by
special observance. A beautiful poem
appropriate to the occasion was read by
Mrs. Mabel Thompson, the five points
of the star and Mrs. Mabel Hibbard
and a beautiful gift was presented in
behalf of the chapter to which- Mrs.,
Pierce responded feelingly in her us
ual pleasing manner.
Mrs. Daisy Baldwin read a selection,
an orchestra composed of F. W. Cut
ting. C- L. Hutchins and Mr. and Mrs.
J. M. Blake, gave several selections.
Mrs. H. J. Stannard and Mrs. J. F.
Batchelder sang a duet and Mrs. J. M.
Blake sang a solo with orchestra accom
paniment. Remarks were made by
Mrs. Laura Rand, H. T. Seaver, H. J.
Stannard, F. W. Baldwin, all of whom
expressed the appreciation of the honor
conferred upon Mrs. Pierce and Orient
chapter and voiced the sentiment that
Mrs. Pierce would also honor the Grand
chapter as its Grand Matron. A ban
quet was served at 6 :30 o'clock.
BARTON
The bank will be
closed on the
Fourth of July.
Annie Wright, dressmaker, Harrison
Avenue, Barton. 25-26p
H. W. Carter is in Boston and Spring
field this week.
H. A. Harding was in Newport Wed
nesday on business.
FMrs. Zora Wheeler visited friends in
Newport over Sunday.
Mrs. Hilliard of Evansville is caring
for Mrs. C. P. Jenness.
Frank Dana of North Troy visited
his parents over Sunday.
Ralph and Julia King are home from
the University of Vermont.
Miss Martha Hall of St. Johnsbury is
visiting at O. D. Rowell's.
Mrs. W. B. Proctor and children
were in Lyndonville Sunday.
Carl Hamblet was home from White
River Junction over Sunday.
Adolphus Valley has moved into a
tenement in E. F. Flood's block.
Aden Phillips and family of Glover
spent Saturday at H. D. Phillips's.
Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Brown of New
port are guests at W. M. Wright's.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Sawyer of North
field were guests at S. A. Hunt's Tues
day. Mrs. L. H. Wells of Burke has been
visiting her sister, Mrs. A. P. Under
wood. Miss Katherine Wilcox of People's
Academy, Morrisville, is visiting Miss
Colburne.
Miss Bertha Jennings of Worcester,
Mass., is visiting her brother, George
Jennings.
Arlene Flanders is spending a week
with her aunt, Mrs. George King, in
isewport
Fred Billedeau and family of Hard
wick were guests at Joe Valley's
Sunday.
Miss Irma King of Passumpsie is a
guest at the home of her uncle, George
E. King.
Mrs. Chester King of Passumpsic has
been visiting her mother, Mrs. Ellen
Williams.
Mrs. H. A. Clark of Sharon Snfi
Kan., was a visitor at C. E. Hamblet's
over Sunday.
Charles Bowley and family of New-
A. , Ti i m Mi
pori are visiung mrs. uowiey s iatner,
N. J. Caron. t,
Mrs. Joe Sidney of Lyndon was the
guest of ber cousin, - Mrs. F. G. Bur
dick, Monday.
Mrs.' J. L. Lewi3 of iJorth Troy was
the guest of Mrs. H. R. Cutler several
days last week.
Mrs. Jane McFarlane of Waterbury is
visiting her daughter-m-law, Mrs
Laura McFarlane.
M. J. Smith, our veteran marble
worker, is working in cemeteries in
ulover and Irasburg.
Miss Lillian B. Mathewson of Mai
den, Mass., was in town Saturday and
Monday on business.
R. C. and P. M. Smith of Barre
called on their parents, Mr. and Mrs.
M. J. Smith, Sunday.
Mrs. Malvina Wright has been spend
ing several days with her brother, Eli
sha Miles, in Evansville.
The Peerless factory will close Satur
day for one week's vacation. Work
will be resumed again July 10.
VERMONT TROOPS GONE
Tuesday Sees Vermont Regiment Fully
1000 Strong Entrain for Texas. War
Expected.
The Vermont boys are on their way
to Eagle Pass, Texas, where they have
been ordered by the war department,
under command of Col. Ira L. Reeves.
It took them nine days to get ready and
leave. As Vermont troops were among
the first of any state to leave it looks
as though the old place for the Vermont
troops at the front still holds good.
The troops from other Eastern states
were, started Tuesday and today.
Eagle Pass, where the Vermont guards
are going is the site of a fort and on
one of the three lines of railroad lead
ing from the United States into Mexi
co. None of the trouble so far has been
in this vicinity but if war is declared
this is bound to begone of the impor
tant stations.
Unless Carranza surrenders the 23
soldiers of Uncle Sam, captured in the
skirmish a few days ago, before to-morrow
morning Congress will probably
declare war on Mexico.
It is expected Governor Gates will
soon call a special session of the Ver
mont legislature for the purpose of
providing state pay for the Vermont
men, in addition to that allowed by the
federal government
Marie Browning has gone to Brook
line, Mass., to remain several weeks
with her aunt, Mrs. A. E. Royle.
Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Dean of Roches
ter, N. H., were the guests of Mr. and
Mrs. John McLellan over Sunday.
Lawence Gardiner and family of
Ryegate were week-end guests of his
brother, H. M. Gardiner and family.
Mr. and. Mrs. J. F. Batchelder. Mrs.
Lucy Robinson and Miss Lillian Robin
son were in St. Johnsbury Saturday.
Mrs. Ruth Reed of Eustis, P. Q., and
Miss Uundrey oi Lennoxvuie were
guests of Mrs. Clara Colby last week.
Miss Marion Carter, who recentlv
graduated from the Springfield Train
ing school, is at home tor the summer.
Ronald Burrows of St. Johnsbury is
spending two weeks with his grand
parents, Mr. and Mrs W. H. Burrows.
Miss Mary Smith was called to St.
Johnsbury the first of the week by the
illness of her sister, Miss Katie Smith.
Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Cutler were in
South Albany Friday at a birthday
party given in honor of Mrs. Belle
Rowell.
Rohert Scott, who is attenrHnc Dart
mouth college, is spending a portion of
his vacation with his sister, Miss
Aftian Scott.
Mrs. Addie Williams, who has heen
staying several months with Mrs.
Mary r-reeman. has returned to her
home in Northfield.
E. R. Flanders, who has been visit
ing his daughter, Mrs. George Cum
mings, in Charleston, has returned to
the Crystal Lake hotel.
Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Brunning were
in Island Pond Sunday to attend an Odd
Fellows' memorial service and were the
guests of E. F. Hobson.
Mrs. Laura Rand of Evansville was
the guest of Mrs. Susan Currier the
last of the week and attended the O.
E. b. reception Friday evening.
Mr. and Mrs. Lyman Mason are
entertaining Mrs. Mason's parents
Mr. and Mrs. George Nye. and her
brother, Will Nye, and family of Ferris-
burg.
Mr. and Mrs. E. E. Paige and chil
dren of Cleveland, O., Mrs. C. A.
Paige and Mrs. W. L. Lawson of Hard
wick were guests at H. E. Paige's Fri
day.
Harry Bullis, who went to Burling
ton with Co. L., V. N. G., has re
turned, having been rejected on
account of having lost two fingers of
one hand.
Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Blake have been
in Burlington this week, where the
doctor is attending a reunion of bis
college class of 1896 at the University
of Vermont.
Mr. and Mrs. Kimball Page, Mr. and
Mrs. Walter Norris, Miss Josephine
Magny and Fred Jarvis motored to
Burlington Sunday to see the National
Guard encampment
A R. Mnrenrv arf!nmnaniert liw hia
father, John Morency, of St. Johns-
i . r 1 ; a. tut . i .
uucy, were iu sumnioa lvionaay to
visit Mr. Moiency's son, who belongs
to the state militia.
The following letters remain uncalled
for at the postoffice. Please say ad
vertised when calling for these letters.
Miss Mabel Barrey, Mrs. S. M. Brown,
Miss Nellie Grover.
Miss Elida Bragg, who has been
employed in the office of W. W. Reir
den for several years, has accepted a
position with Root & Blanchard of
Newport and assumed her labors.
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Buswell and
daughters, and Miss Hazel Heath of
Brownington went this morning to
Stone Pond where they will occupy
one of Mr. Bean's cottages for a week.
Mr. and Mrs. V. L. Nason, who have
been living in a tenement m C. E.
Sisco's house, have stored their goods
in Mrs. Clara Colby's house and gone
to Holland, where Mr. Nason has em'
ployment
Miss Marjorie Hastings, who has
been spending several months with her
uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Douglass
Hastings in Syracuse, N. Y., returned
the last of the week to the home of
her father, Dr. F. R. Hastings.-
Miss Isadore Foss leaves tomorrow
for Winchendon, Mass., where she will
act as librarian during the vacation of
Raymond Willson.
Barton has lost one of its most
promising young men, "one upon whom
she had counted much. Raymond A.
Willson died at the home of his mother,
Mrs. Delia S. Willson, on High street,
Sunday evening, June 25th, after an
illness covering six months. Taken ill
about Christmas time last year, he had
been twice to St. Johnsbury for opera
tions but the skill of surgery could not
help and he failed from day to day
until the end came.
He was born in Barton, Jan. 22, 1897
and has spent his entire life in town.
In school he was an exceptionally
bright student and, by reason of bis
cheerful disposition and his manly
ways, he was a general favorite both
with pupils and teachers. At the end
of his second year in the academy he
left school to enter the employ of the
Barton Savings Bank & Trust com
pany. Here, again, his genial manner
coupled with natural ability and unim
peachable integrity, won him many
more warm friends and he was looked
upon as one of the most efficient young
men in the bank's service.
He is survived by his mother, Delia
S. Willson, and one sister, S. Ernestine,
who have the heartfelt sympathy of
the entire community.
The funeral was held from the home
this afternoon at 2 o'clock and was
very largely attended by relatives and
townspeople, Rev. W. A. Warner
'ifficiating. Interment in Welcome O.
Brown cemetery.
the librarian there. Miss Lillian
Robinson wi;l take Miss Foss's place in
the library here during her absence.
H. T. Seaver and daughter, Miss
Clemma Seaver, are in Burlington this
week to be present at the commence
ment exercises of the University of
Vermont at which time Mr. Seaver's
son, Amory, graduates.
Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Willard and chil
dren of Beverly, Mass., have been
spending several days at the Crystal
Lake House. Mr. Willard is one of the
firm who recently purchased the J. W.
Murkland business on Water street.
, Mrs. George Sylvester of Coventry
spent Tuesday with her sister, Mrs.
'P. L. Webster. Mrs. Sylvester, Mr?.
Webster, and Mrs. Hattie Martin left
this mornnig for Littleton, N. H.,
where they will visit Mrs. John Good
nough. Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Cutler enter
tained Mrs. Herbert Hovey and little
son of Belmont, Mass., Charles Ross,
Ralph Sherry and son, Paul, of St.
Johnsbury, Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Wright
and son, Charles, of West Glover Sat
urday. Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Smith enter
tained their children and grandchildren
over Sunday: Mrs. George Shaw of
Bellows Falls, Mrs. Robert Shaw and
two children of St. Johnsbury and Mr.
and Mrs. Delbert Smith and baby of
Albany.
Mr. and Mrs. M, W. Jennings, sons, ,
Earl and Carl and daughter of Hard
wick, Miss Julia Randall of Lyndon
ville and Mr. and Mrs. Frank Kimball
and daughter of Willoughby were in
town Wednesday night to attend the
Naatz-Jennings wedding.
Marie Browning, Grace Proctor and
Francis Goodro played at a piano reci-1
tal given by the pupils of Miss May
Libby at Newport Thursday evening.
Mildred Rushford, Reginald Jarvis
and Esther Brunning played at the re
cital given Friday evening.
Everett Ruggles, who is attending
Tufts medical college, returned here
Wednesday with his sister, Miss Edith
Ruggles, who has been in Boston since j
the close of the school here, and thev !
will occupy the E. W. Barron cottage
in urystal Lake Grove this summer. I
A post card to the Monitor from
Norman Stebbins, who left here to join
the Massachusetts guards, nf whirh Via
was a member, mailed at the mobiliza
tion camp at rrammgham, Monday
evening, says: "Please remember me
to my friends in your paper. We leave
tor ban Antonio, Tex., Tuesday morn
ing."
Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Brunning, Mr.
and Mrs. George Goodro, Mrs. W. B.
Proctor and Mr. and Mrs. Fred Brown
ing were in Newport Thursday evening
and Mrs. Fred Jarvis, Mrs. Homer
Rushford and Mr. and Mrs. M. H.
Brunning on Friday evening, to attend
thf recitals given by the music pupils of
Miss 'May Libby.
Charles Sawyer, who has been in the
state asylum at Waterbury since De
cember, died Sunday evening. Mr.
Sawyer's body was brought here Tues
day night and funeral services were
held from the home Wednesday morn
ing at 10 o'clock, Rev. W. A. Warner
officiating. Mr. Sawyer is survived by
his wife and two sons, Fred and Guy
Sawyer. The interment was at Glover.
The South Pasadena Daily Record of
June 20th contains a very compliment
ary notice of a song recital given by
Miss Amy Davis. The account says :
'Miss Davis' pleasing soprano voice
was at its best and delighted her audi
ence with its range. Congratulations
were showered upon the young singer,
her teacher, Mrs. Tussing, and her
parents, Mr. and Mrs. George H.
Davis." The manv Barton friends nf
Miss Davis are delighted to ' learn of
her success.
Dr. Robert W. Lovett of Boston and
Miss Janet Merrill, a graduate of the
Sargent School of Physical Education
at Cambridge. Mass., are exnected to
be in Barton Saturday to hold an in
fantile paralysis clinic Miss Merrill's
work, which is under the direction of
the state board of health and in con
nection with the work of Dr. Lovett,
is of inestimable value to the unfortu
nate ones who are slowly regaining
power in the muscles made useless by
the ravages of infantile paralysis.
C0NGREGATI0NALISTS AT 0R
LEANS. The 76th annual meeting of the O.
A. C. C. was held with the church at
Orleans on Tuesday and Wednesday,
June 21. The attendance was good.
The Orleans people entertained royally.
On Tuesday morning the devotional
service was led by Rev. W. A. Warner.
The organization was perfected by the
election of Rev. W. A. Warner as
moderator and the Rev M. W. Farm an
as scribe. The Rev. L. A. Edwards
assisted the scribe. The address of
welcome was given by O. W. Locke
who always speaks Well. The response
was by the moderator. Greetings from
a sister denomination were hapmly
extended by Rev. W. S. Smithers,
pastor of the M. E. church. The Rev.
L. A. Edwards made the response.
Deacon F. W. Baldwin gave impres
sions of the state meeting at Benning
ton. Committee appointments were
made. Dinner was served in the ves
try. H
In the afternoon, the devotional ser
vice was led by Rev. M. G. Tupper of
Irasburg. The report of the registrar,
the Rev. M. W. Farman, was read by
the Rev. L. A. Edwards. There are
twenty churches in the association, the
same as one year ago. AJ1 these are
in Orleans county except the one at
Island Pond. The total membership is
1778; a gain of twenty-eight over the
preceding year. This number is the
largest in the history of the associa
tion. The property valuation Is $160,
600, and an fdance of $500 over the
previous year.
The largest church in membership is
Brownington and .Orleans, the second
i3 Newport and the third is Barton.
Many of the churches report a good
financial and spiritual condition. The
largest gain in membership had been
made by Island Pond, with Westmore
second and East Charleston third.
"The Mission and Future of Congre
gational Church in Vermont," was in
terestingly presented by the Rev. C.
H. Merrill D. D. of St.. Johnsbury.
The annuity fund was presented by
Rev. Frank W. Hodgdon of Boston
who is a speaker with unusual gifts.
At 4o'clock the Ladies' Missionary
Meeting was held, presided over by
Mrs. E. W. Barron with Mrs. Bertha
L. Wright as secretary. Miss Rust of
North Hyde Park and Mrs. C. C. Claris
of Coventry gave addresses.
At the same hour there was a meet
ing of the general council in the par
lor. CONTINUED ON PAGE SIX
Mrs. L. P. Page was given a party
at the home of her daughter, Mrs. H.
G. Perley, Thursday afternoon, the
occasion being her 78th birthday. She
received several gifts, among tbem a
beautiful bouquet of flowers from her
neighbors. Those present who helped
make the afternoon a pleasant one
were her daughters. Mis3 Cora Rowell
and Mrs. A. G. Williams, A. G. Wil
liams, Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Brown of
Orleans, Mr. and Mrs. A. D. Patterson
and Mrs. Ellen Williams. Supper was
served and the guests left wishing
Mrs. Page much happiness and many
more natal days.
EVANSVILLE
The proposed Fourth-of July celebra
tion here is called off, but a Field Day
will be held later.
BROWNINGTON
Remember the entertainment
grange hall Thursday evening.
COVENTRY
at
Remember the V. I. S. promenade
Friday evening.
TheW. C. T. U. meeting will be
postponed until July 11th.
Children's day services will be held
in the M. E. church Sunday.
The ladies' societies of the Congre
gational church will hold a social in
the vestry, Friday evening, July 7th.
Supper will be served from 6 to 8
o'clock, after which there will be a
shortfprogram.
LOWELL
The Grange will have a picnic, July
4, in Barre's grove. There will be ball
games and other sports. W. H. Far-
man and A. B. Blake are the managers.
WESTFIELD
Herbert Gray is in town.
The village school closes this week.
Carl Miller has returned from
Springfield, Mass.
Chaplain M. W. Farman is in Bur
lington and Middlebury this. week.
. Dana S. Gilpin and family of
Brattleboro are visiting at Judge Gil
pin's. The C. E. society?gave an ice cream
social in the Farman hall Friday eve
ning. This building was formerly the
M. E. church.
Buildings.
Buildings are contrivances which sur
round trouble, despair, pleasure, enter
tainment, business, indolence and
plumbing.
Buildings are built with brick, mor
tar, cement, wood, steel and mort
gages. It also takes sand to build
buildings, but they should not be built
on sand.
Some buildings are public and some
are private. Public buildings are
usually very imposing, and usually the
public has been imposed upon to build
them.' Private buildings are frequent
ly private in namo- only, especially if
occupied by several Inquisitive women.
Such buildings are made up of a large
number of stories and most of them
are without foundation.
Kats, mice, fires, earthquakes and
rent collectors are buildings' worst
enemies. Jiidge. .
Naatz-Jennings.
The home of Mr. and Mrs. George E.
Jennings was the scene of a very
pretty wedding Wednesday evening,
June 21, when their daughter, Bea
trice, was united! in marriage to
Charles H. Naatz of Newbury. The
rooms were decorated in green and
white and the bridal party entered to
the strains of the wedding march from
Lohengrin, played by Miss Ernestine
Willson, and stood beneath an arch of
daisies and evergreen. The ceremony
was performed by Rev. B. L. Jennings
of Worcester, Mass., an uncle of the
bride, assisted by Rev. I. A. Ranney of
the M. E. church, the double ring ser
vice being used. The bride was at
tended by Miss Lois Hawkins as maid
of honor and four bridesmaids, Misses
Yolande Blair, Mary Hanson, Esther
Eveleth and Mildred Curtis. Roy Ellis
of Newport acted as best man and
Marguerite Kimball and Barbara
Brooks of Willoughby as flower girls.
The bride was attired in white net and
lace, with veil, and carried bridal
roses. The maid of honor and the
bridesmaids wore white and carried
shower bouquets of sweet peas. The
bride was the recipient of many beau
tiful gifts, including cut glass, silver,
china and linen. After receiving the
congratulations and best wishes of the
guests, the young couple left for New
port, taking the morning train for
Detroit, where they will spend two
weeks with Mrs. Naatz's brother,
Ralph Jennings. Upon their return
they will reside in Newbury where
Mr. Naatz is employed as station
agent. Miss Jennings w&s one of
Barton's popular young ladies. She
graduated from the academy in 1914
and during the next year taught the
school at Willoughby, proving herself
a capable and efficient teacher. Dur
ing the past year she has been a mem
ber of the teacher training class, from
which she graduated. Both Mr. and
Mrs. Naatz have many friends who
wish them success and happiness in
their new home.
"Better Off On
the F
arm
An interview with Secretary of Agriculture
David F Houston by Edward B. Clark
the farm," but "Stay on the farm." The belief of all the government stu-
dents of agricultural conditions in the United States is that if the farming
industry be made increasingly profitable and that if conditions of farm life
be bettered the "Back to the farm" movement will take care of itself. In!
other words, the magnet will be on the farm and it will draw to itself the1
dwellers in the cities who are ambitious to better their condition. j
Secretary Houston was asked by your correspondent to give a message;
to those who are engaged in a comprehensive plan to show the boys of their
communities that it is advisable to stay on the farm instead of leaving it
to go to the hurly-burly and uncertainty of city life. Mr. Houston spoke;
feelingly on the subject. He combined a statement of what is being done;
by the federal and state governments to give the farming life holding quali
ties, with a message on the growing opportunities for young men to make
a signal success of agricultural occupations.
"It is not so much a problem of bringing young men back to the farm!
as it is one of so improving agricultural conditions and rural life as to:
make it clear to the young men that they will be better off in the long run
by staying where they are than by going elsewhere. j
"The great problem confronting the nation is how to make agricul-!
ture profitable and the rural life comfortable, attractive and healthful. j
"If we successfully attack that problem we shall be relieved of the;
necessity of talking so much about staying on the farm or of going back!
to the farm. All the efforts of land-grant colleges and of this department!
are directed to this end. The agencies are becoming consolidated in the'
extent and efficiency of machinery, and financial support has been forthn
coming from the states and the nation, which combined are spending at!
present $60,000,000 a year through the land-grant colleges and the stataj
and federal departments of agriculture for the improvement of agrieuLj
tural and rural life. j
"The aim is to increase production through plant and animal breed-
ing, better cultural methods, eradication or control of plant and animal
diseases which are costing hundreds of millions a year; to study newec
problems in agriculture ; to improve distribution, especially marketing, andj
to develop community co-operation and teamwork with a view to the better!
standardization and handling of products and a fuller knowledge of mar4
kets and market conditions and the transportation of products in, shortJ
a better organization of rural life. 1
'In the interest of the young people we are organizing a large numbeij
of agricultural clubs, canning clubs, poultry clubs, corn clubs, hog clubs,'
and so on. The work is being promoted by the demonstration force, now a
co-operative machinery under the joint support of land-grant colleges and'
the federal department.
"whose duty it is to work with the farmers on the farms for the improve-j
ment of agricultural conditions as they affect production and distribution
Under the Smith-Lever act the states and the nation together will be
expending in seven years $9,000,000 yearly for this extension of agrieulJ
tural education.
"It seems reasonably clear with the natural opportunities we have and
with the improvements made by the farmers supplementing these agencies
that the opportunities for young men to make a success in farming will
be increased gradually, and that now outside of the actual business of
farming there is a loud call for leaders of all these enterprises in nira
districts. j
"I see no reason why an aspiring country boy should not direct his
' attention to the opportunities presented in this great field of effort rather
than to those of the other industrial offerings presented by city life."
Secretary Houston spoke strongly of three factors of the problem of
how to keep young men on the farm. They are good rural schools, first
class country roads and a more attractive social life. Schools and a bright-!
ening of the social life are wholly state and community problems. In the
matter of the improvement of roads the federal government has a voice
and power. " ' i
The secretary has a heartfelt interest in the solution of the rural-;
school problem. He believes, as others believe with'Mm, that the boy and
girl in the country should have the same opportunities for education thatj
are given to the boy and girl of the city. The lack of proper educational
facilities in country districts, he believes, has sent many ambitious parents'
away from the farms to the cities in order to give their children the advaibj
tages which the schools of the large centers afford.
INTERESTING PARALYSIS DEDUCTIONS.
The quarterly bulletin of the Ver
mont state board of health, dated June
1, contains an extended report of
epidemic poliomyelitis, or infantile
paralysis in Vermont. Since Barton
was one of the centers of the disease
in 1914 there is much of interest in the
bulletin. It contains charts, maps,
tables, diagrams and comparisons that
are interesting. The state board gives
local health officer, M. F. Prime4
special acknowledgement for his assis
tance and interest in the matter.
The report on this topic covers 40
pages but the Monitor takes pleasure
in quoting that part which particularly
refers to Barton as follows :
"The epidemic of 1914 started in the
village of Barton and this village
suffered more severely in most ways
than any other in the state. The town
of Barton is made up of several small
villages and the usual f aiming districts
about these. Two of the villages,
Orleans and Barton, are incorporated
and on the railroad. Of the 37 cases
that are reported from this township,
23 occurred in Barton village ; 3 in the
village of Orleans and the other 11 in
the farming districts of the town.
"Barton village is a small manufac
turing community of 1330 inhabitants
(1910). It is situated on Crystal lake,
whence the Barton river runs through
the village. The village has a good
water supply from a mountain pond
and a fairly good sewerage system.
Crystal lake is a body of water three
miles long and about half a mile wide.
"The principal industries of the
town are wood-working shops, a foun
dry, three granite sheds, two grist
mills and a garment factory.
"As has been noted, the first case in
the state this year occurred near the
railroad station in this village and
rather near to the granite sheds and
grist mills. In previous reports of
this board, the possible connection
between this disease and stone-cutting
industries has been noted, from the
severe outbreaks that have occurred in
CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE
It should and doubtless doe3
go without saying that David!
Franklin Houston, secretary ofj
agriculture, is interested deeplvj
in the solution of the problem;
of how to keep the young men!
of the country on the farmJ
Mr. Houston, like many others:
who have given careful study,
to the situation, declares that
the cry should not be "Back td
