ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
CITY
EDITION
EDITION
TlfflN Y-SFVENTU
vol.
T7CAR.
Ten Pages'
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Wednesday, June 28, 1916.
Ten Pages
Dally by Carrier ur Mail, tMte
Month. hliiglo Coiriea, M
I
OMORROWMAY
SEE- END OF U. S.
PATIENCE WITH
THE WEATHER'
THE WiaTllF.lt I'OUIXAST.
Denver, .1 tine 27. New Mexico:
Wednesday unit Thursday generally
iuir; not much change in
tun-.
lempera-
nni iirimnTinin:
UUN VtNUblllUil""
LOCAL UKATHFIt I.KPOKT.
Kor twenty-four hours ending ut 6
p. in. yesterday;
Maximum temperature, 93 degrees;
minimum temperature, .".3 dfgrew;
degrees; temperature at 6
degree; southwest wind;
Delay, However, Helps Army
to Get Into Shape to Meet
, Whatever Situation May
Develop,
REGULARS MUST BE
BACKED BY GUARDSMEN
No Aggressive Military Opera
tions Can Be Undertaken
Until Large Number of State
: Troops Arrive,
CITY BANK CLEARINGS.
JM, 11 5.63.
of system of equipping the slate mil
itia for active duty wan the main reu
non for delay in the mobilization and
wending of troops to the. border.
The militia is not permitted under
existing laws, lie said, to keep extra
field equipment in their armories and
uh a result when the. call to nrm
eomes uh in the present instance,
rifles, canteen, clothing, etc, must
he obtained from the nearest arsenal.
There 1h no reserve supply for horses.
"The result of the .Mexican trouble
I believe, will be rcconatructbin xf the.
system .if equipping the national
guard." General Wood said.
U, S,
PRISONERS
WELL TREATED
T MOSNIN JOUBMAL HCIAL LItO
Washington, June 27. There
dear indications today that if Ameri
can cavalrymen, captured by .Mexican
lioops at Currizal, were not released
within 4S hours, action would be taken
by the I'niled States.
Tli Impression prevailed in official
circles thai President Wilson would
not wait beyond Thursday at the latest
and possibly not beyond tomorrow af
ternoon for a definite reply from the
Carranza government to' the note de
manding the immediate release of the
prisoners and a declaration of inten
tions. Note is Delivered.
Special Agent Kodgcrs at Mexico
City reported in an overnight message
that he had delivered the note to the
1 By MQNNIN4 JOURNAL SPECIAL LffAMD WIMI
i Washington. June 1:7. The Itritish
WeTO ,.,,,.,., ... IMiil,iiL.l,M.. ,-ilv H-lir. iu
looking alter American interests
i there, reported to the state depart
inieut today that the American troop
lers captured at Currizal had been in
jterned in the Chihuahua peniten
tiary anil were being well treated.
'He gave the number as twenty-three,
jtwfi of them sergeants, and the others
'privates. Two arc slightly wounded,
i The consul's message which was
the first report regarding the prison
ers to reach the department from hint
follows:
; "There arc twenty-one privates and
I two sergeants of Ihc Tcntli cavalry
and one white Interpreter interned in
,the penitentiary. Two arc slightly
LAWYER'S ADROIT
QUESTIONS LEAD
ORPET TO HUH
INCONSISTENCIES
Empty Trucks Rout
Mexican Garrison
Youth Charged With Murder
Weaves Tangled Web for
Himself; Forced to Revise
Testimony,
CRYPTIC EXPRESSIONS ,
IN LETTERS DISCUSSED
State Attorney Strives to Show
Veiled Allusions Had Refer
ence .to Illicit Relations With
the Girl,
Columbus. N. M, June 27. -Four
Mexican troops of the garrison at As
cension, eighty miles south of the bor
der and close to (he American lines of
communication, narrowly escaped he
in run over by 1'iiiled suite trans
port trucks today, when the fifty nun
composing the garrison made a wild
dash over the hills when tho truck
train hove Into sight. Tiny thought
the town was he-Inn attached. The
trucks were coming north for supplies.
At u late hour ihe garrison had 1 1 t
returned.
- j Maj,
lyn, with u persistence which knew no
bounds, sought to trap the witness In
to admitting that they veiled a liaison
which the girl was anvions to termin
ate or were design, d to dissuade her
from expressed Intention of "bring us
Rood hs gold."
Witness ,'hies.
By mid-afternoon tin- witness plain
ly relaxed as one of his lawyers ad
mitted In an aside. At one point, for
instance, (he siil fect under discussion
related to in apology orpet hail made
for not writing sooner to tlit girl.
"lint you won't tare," he wrote,
"Was it just sarcasm ?" demanded
the lawver as one of fusillade of ques
tions. Or net was plainly worn out, almost
smothered menially by the vigor and
rapidity with which the lawyer pur
sued every phase of its last shade of
meaning and then cast back as a con
tradiction which must bo, explained.
For fifteen minutes the boy had tiled
l,i extract himself lo the satisfaction
to
14.0B1 TROOPS
FROM EAST
W TO
SOUTH
BORDER
Gen, Wood Announces
Guards of Five Stales Have
Already Entrained for Ser
vice, SUFFICIENT SUPPLIES
FOR 200,000 SOLDIERS
Provisions to Last Thirty Days
Have Been Assembled in
Zone of Probablo Hostilities,
wuniw jwaNu ipioAL umid iii rapidity wnn wnicn ine lawyer pui-j lt hoikim ,mL inoi itxiu im
Waukegan, III., June 27. illiuni ! sued every phase of its last shade of .,.v York, June 27. Supplies have
If. orpet, who elected to tell ,ls own j meaning and then cast back as a con-'been provided along the Mexican bor
story on Ihe stand in refutation of I tradlction which must b,j explained, j der f,,r lin ,,rtny f jtiii.nno men and
the charge of murdering Marion Lam-''''"' fifteen minutes the boy had ti led for the next thirty days according to
bert, completed a session of cross-! In extract himself to the satisfaction',,,, nntioiincemcnl here tonight by tbe
:exainjnuti,m today which left him , Ot M r. .losivn It 'om a statement as in nrtrrmastcr's department of the
pale and nervous. j whei her he or Marion loved t he more rilj(,,(i mmy. It also w as
i The course of ciiest inning adopt -d '. 111 " ''crtain period of the year lleained from the same source thai
by David 11. Joslyu for the state,! notlier Inconsistency. 1 2.'0' motol transport trucks had been
abounded in pitfalls and led the wit -1 "I guess it was sarcasm," rpct fin- purchased from twenty different au-
ness over a route which twisted and ! ally reilied, almost in a gasp, although
; turned and doubled on itself with an ' his previous testimony had shown that
Carrancista Kids
American Consul
a Tearful Adieu
ItV MOHNi JOUMNAL SCCAk LIABIO WINII
Krow nsvillc, Tex., June 27. I'nited
Stales consul J. II. Johnson, who vls
lled Matauuiras last night, and finally
closed consular affairs there, held h
conference with lietieral Alfredo Iti
caut. ,e fact,, commander of the Mata
moras district.
"I hope It will be possible in the
event of a l.n-ak of relations between
our countries" General Iticsut told
Mr. Johnson, according to the latter
"that halt an hour before it occurs
1 iiiiiv have the pleasure of shaking
(Kinds with you and C.eneral James
Parker, commanding the holder paliol
at l-'ot I lirown, at the Internal ionnl
bridg,."
Tears filled General Llcaut's Off
as be made this statement, Mr. John
son said.
COLONEL ACCEPTS
HUGHES' INVITATION
lT MOSNINC iOUIINAL tPICAL LIAAIO Wlttll
New York, June "7. Theodore
Itooseveli has accepted all invitation
to dine with Charles K, Hughes at the
republican presidential nominee's ho
tel here at 7:.'lu o'clo, It tomorrow
night, It was learned here today.
LATEST OUTLAW
FORAY DISPELS
HOPE OP PEACE
WITH MEXICANS
Murder of American Rancher
and His Wife Causes Gen
eral Pessimism Along Entire
Border,
HOT TRAIL SURE
TO BE FOLLOWED
If
foreign offic.
.Mexican
morning.
While the diplomatic aspects of lh'knoe
crisis awaited Carran.a's action, the
war department drove forward its ef
forts to hasten mobilization of the na
tional guard on the border. It is cer
tain that no aggressive military op
eralons can be undenuken until a sub
stantial number of state troops is.
available to back up Ccneral Fun-
ston's regulars, who unquestionably;
would lead any movement. j
Would f.ny Mutter llcforo Congress, j
President Wilson's first step, snould j
lie decide lo force the issue, probably
would bp to lay the whole situation I
before congress in a joint session. J
Mexican officials here have express. :
ej the opinion that General Carranza
would surrender the American prison-I
el's whatever reply he wmild make to
the demand for a formal diplomatic!
expression of his purposes. The slate ;
department bus had no official report i
lending to confirm this view.
Delay Helps Army.
Kvi ry day's delay iu what seems
yesterday wounued. one inrougn mo snoiiiue,
'and another has flesh wound in
lloth arc recovering ami re
ceiving medical attention. They arc
sufficiently fed and well treated. They
have ample room for exercise. Am
assured that there is no danger for
their lives."
PERSHINC MAKES
STRATEGIC MOIE
TOWARD BORDER
Commander of Expeditionary
Army Abandons Two Posi-,, na
tions in Order to Concen
trate Forces,'
the Inevitable break in relations Willi
the Mexican government sees thei
army in better position for the swift j
uction that may follow. This has in- j
fluenced against pressing matters to
an immediate issue.
Advises from Ccneral l-'unston'a ;
headquarters indicate that trains load
ed with state troops are sweeping j
southward today from many parts of.
the country. Additional regiments are
entraining or receiving the last neces
sary equipment. At the war depart
ment and in congress hurried meas-
,....... .. ..A 1........ ..ir...i rtt-ovl .1.. tf,tlt
ii.. ,.r....,..w c- ..,. ,.rmv ordered! to advices received by
,r MOMIM JOUMNAt. IMdlkk LIAlBD
.Mexico City, Juno 27. The Ameri
can forces under the command of
General Pershing have abandoned
Bacliimha and San tlerontmo in order
to concentrate to the
to the harder, I
'I liousmid Americans In Mexico. '
Another task aided by delay In an'
..Mtl-.rr..itr rtf irunP:il h oul I ! iHtiu Iu fhfltj
of getting Americans out of Mexico.
The number there has been reduced to
Hiregon, secretary oi win, ,,oi,
Jacinto Trevlno, commanding 'n,'jthis im
government troops in cinnuanua. int
forces have occupied these
positions and organized
i insistence hich more than once
caused the witness lo collect his tes
timony. I. osos Composure.
; III an hour, however, his composure
, was gone. He moved from side to
side in his .-cat, Iwisted his fingers an,
! scarcely looked at his inquisitor. For
:t.he most part his head was Inclined
, to one side, and he gazed out of 1 he
Corner of his eyes in Hie direction of
i the lawyer, but nol at him.
i At one time one of the letters which
he wrote to Marion was left to his tier
,vous fingers.
;' "Mr. Orpet," warned the attorney,
please don t twist that letter as you
will destroy It."
.Morbid Curiosity.
The courtroom was packed no to
'the very edge of the Judge's bench
on either side of it mostly with wouis
'.en. For the most part Ihe testimony
, was of an cMremely embarrassing
; nature, but it did not deter the wom
;en from returning to the afternoon
session. During the forenoon those
; close enough to hear hung their heads
most of the time but bv afternoon
Were Used lo it.
j orpet probably will continue under
icross-exaniinatlon tomorrow, and
I possibly the next day mid there wan
j little hope thai the case could o to
I the Jury by the end of the week.'
i l imed 'I wigs.
I Mr. Joslyn dwelt largely
pet's letters today. The
! friends express regret that
ins testimony designed to
alleged motives for
be published. Mr
tomobile manufacturing concerns at
:nn average rosl of $.1,000 each, and
jthat bids had hern usked for 400 aulo
; mobiles to be used by the officers of
the various commands along the bor
Vr. i Maj. it-ii. Leonard Wood. com
manding the (Icp'iiirnent of the east,
In a report lo the war department, I"
jiilght slated that It.lMil troops from
'New York. New J, rsey, Massachusetts,
jit was merely a plaintive note of re
; proof bccaiis, . as Ol'i ei view ed 11. Ma
i rion was not sufficiently demonstrnt-
Ivc for a girl who pretended to be In
! love.
j During the forenoon, ami pait of
;tll,; afternoon the witness succeeded
'in sticking to his original statements
land by declining to be led into con
j lecture when the Inquisitor not satis
fied Willi his frequent failures to re-collect,
pursued him. Later, hovvev
!er, be tried to answer everything,
! even the grealcr love question, on a
I given date. At first, he said he
lltoiiir.),, be loved Ihe more, then he
in,,,, ,i, i, ' i.-i -'Ami if i Massachusetts Foul
i ......
you know that Marion loved you more,
I than you did her, that line was Just ;
I sarcasm The lawyer demanded ami
ithe exhausted witness made the reply
previously given.
Armored Trucks for Army.
Pittsburg, I'll., June 27. The first
Pliisburg volunteer regiment, whoso
services have already been offered the
government In the event of war with
Mexico, will have seventeen armored
motor trucks when it goes to the,
front If 'be sanction of (leneral Wood,'
and the war department is given. The,
armored trucks are offered by six ; '
Piltshurg nun. Ten trucks will be !
filled w ith machine guns, four with, j
one pound rapid fire guns, one lied i
Cross ambulance cur, one officers' car f
aod tho other a walei tank car. The j
government will he asked to furnish .
the machine and rapld-flru guns. i
Troops Discover Raiders'
Tracks, They Will Continue
Pursuit Into Territory of
Southern Republic,
ami Vermont now are cn
bonler. These arc as ful
fil Itoule.
regiment
,f Inlan-
0
By CARRANZA TO
I 'onnect icul
route to tin
lows:
Trow k
Vermont - ( hie
try. l.flOn men,
rcftiinctils of
infanuv. one baltalion of field allil-
tcry, one battalion of signal troops,
one field hospital, one ambulance
company and one squadron of cavalry.
Total strength. "..HI. ! men.
Connecticut Two rcKim''iils of m-
Ifrinlrv, one troop of cavalry, one com-
jpuny Hi;;nal corps,
'company, one field
12,330.
i New York --Three
one ambulance
hospital. Tolal,
regiments of In-
MEDIATE REFUSED
Department
Says First Chief
Maintain Military
Quo in Mexico;
Status i
:and
.i:arrani ion-en nave uvxu,,,,-u pd ,u.rilouslv but he eln
tests loan a thoiisunn. i
Consular advices during the day again occupying them,
from the few slate department repre- Keports received from Zacatecas
sentutives in Mexico roported quiet lu aro to the effc t that Col. Miguel Her-
the vicinity of their posts. naiulez. one of the rebel chieftains, is
Camma l,,,aKauda Wat-liod , h((! frvi , j,,,,, the Car-
State department otficlals took lot-,
..,.,1 iw.tl, tnfla- of live activities In t'ouza urmy.
Ihe t'nlted States agents of the Car-j According to information from N'a-.
ranza bureau ot Informations. He- cozari, Sonora, the Southern Vacific ,
ports as to conditions in international Railway line and the telephone and
relations are telegraphed from Mexico (eiraph systems are In the hands i
City , the Cnited SUi.es by the hu-, f()1V(is! j
ZUVl I
scrutinize tliese reports carefully be-1 UUn-American republics to which!
fore using them. ; Foreign secretary Aguiiar ree-m,y ,
The .Mexican -.inbassy has not even 'Hetll mefisuges concerning the i-irriiil '
been notified bv Carranza of the re-, ,. -, ..7-ii.,n incidents. Some ot the
; renllcM offer co-oocralton with a view
.to averting through mediation a war I
celoi of the American note. Mr. Af-!.
icdondo said he had not heard rrom
la.. .................. ulfi.w. riniiimlll!-
,f .u.. .' i wonth and :iictvveen the Lnited Stales and Mexico
f'..nt.-oi AninH.-nn reoubllcs in regard i Gen. Uoberto F. tVjudo. command
in offers of mediation. ier-!n-chlcf of Ihe Zapata forces in tin'
jstut,.
men
of Hidalgo, has offered 1
under his command t the
WtKIII Itl.XMI S I'ODlt
. .-..n.av.a l,i,l 1,1.-1 T I
)t.rv ,.onillwmler at Vera Ciw. for Ibe
New Yoi-K, June 27. Major General ! service of the de facto govei nmciil.
Leonard Wood, commander of the le-iGenei al Carranza has accepted the
of the Hast, issued a. siute- proffer of General Cejudo.
General Gaviiu. cunimanding the
government forces at Juarez, lias re
turned to his post after a conference
with or- j
lances; state
tmich uf j
north, acconling:,,. nf .,.. f,. I
" " ' ' "" '
icould not be published. Mr. Joslvn
through calm waters, along
only to disclose whirlpools
rapids In which orpet's craft
li.uiiei'. I
them so as tojHtoK. . . ,,;,,.,. wi,.
For a few fleeting moments Mr 'Polk of
Joslyn turned from Ihc letters to the ideclined
subject of cyanide of potassium, the
poison from which Marion died. This
was iu connection with the purchase
oi .some nrown dope, as orpet tlve advice from Mexico
termed It, which he bought, for Ma-iCarranz i would agree to
lion on two occasions. This was one
of the places where he became con
fused and under savage attack cor
rected himself.
A (;sid Memory,
lie bought the "dope" nt a drug
store at Madison, Wis., where lie was i Mr. Folk said that he ,-oiild not
ullending the 1'niv rrsity of Wisconsin, jlake up such a matter with an unau-
, Mr. Joslyn In bis most suave manner ithorized negotiator. II" also was
.had adduced that William .ink and ifiun!ed " giving thai General Car-
Charlcs Hassinger. friends of the de- ' ",ml n" 11 11 I'"'""" t" '-"lorce
, , . . Ihe nil itary s atus quo.
fendant out of school, clerked in the, I ,. !1V.. n, ,:,....
'(Store and that Orpet and others mode jfor s, veral days among fr. Douglas,
n a trequent rendezvous -Or. Victor Kendor. head of the Yu-
Was there a soda fountain . ' Yes. Ionian sisal commission, and others
Cli'Mra0 ' Vn VV'httt-M w..iu , l.t., 1 illtel-ested in Mevieo with a view to
nilli- 'rr.,n. ., wl... i. ..!.- laidinu' in jiverlhiir iv.nr. 't'be (l!K,i:,tel,
Ifl'orn Ciibrei.i wa In rcspon;e to an
linqulry as to what General Carranza
would agree to.
Ifantry. Total, .'ls:',2.
i New Jersey - l ine regiment of Infau
J ry, two troops of cavalry, two bnltcr
lies of field aitilleiy. one ambulance
Company ami one field hospital. To
;tal, l,r,30.
i Another Itcglmciil Dcpiuis.
1 Announcement was made thai the
Twelfth regiment of Infantry, New
(York national guard, probably would
Cnimsfilfir:'i''T"'0
(BV HPINIirt JOURNAL tPtOAL LIAMO Wlfft.'
Washington. June 2 7. Counsellor
the state department today
to discuss mediation of the
I.MexIcan difficulty with Charles A.
iDouglas, a VVashlngtoi, lawyer, for
jmerly counsel for General Cirranza,
Iwho culled to say he had authorila-
City that
mediation
iWlth the military status quo inaln-
'taiiicd In the meantime.
! Luis Cabrera, minister of finance
.in the Mexican cabinet, telew ra i.lied
;Mr. I.iouglas today 1 hut Carranza was ""''
iwiiung to enter into sucn an agree
- mi nt.
for the border tomorrow,
..... i, ...... rl.i t i. f.ie litl..tf i.tfeitflv l.MV-
Cannot' Ing been provided. ,
The national guard of New York
state will be continued as a divisional
limit when It mobilizes Us IK.ooo men
i at Brownsville, Tcx Maj. Gen. John
jK. O'Rynn announced tierc Tolilght. He
jhas been assured by Die war depart
incnt, be said, that the New York
troops will be together if any fighting
'is to be done. Major General Uyan,
accompanied by his staff expects to
(leave for the border Thursday or
I Friday.
The national guard organization or
dered out from Pennsylvania con
sists of three regiments or infantry,
one ambulance corps, one field hospl-
Tender Leaves Willi llefugecs.
Washington, June 27. Captain
Iluirage, commanding the battleship
Nebraska at Vera Our. r-.poited to
day thai the tender Dixie, crowded
with American refugees, had sailed
from Tanipict) for Galveston. She
should arrive early Friday. Consul
liiiyaiil at I'rogrcso notified the slate
department that he was leaving, and
would a l rive at New Orleans in a few
days.
AMI IUC'A.X IMSS.; 1,(KIS o
Tit Ml. OF ASSASSINH
.
(.'olumbus, N. M.. June 27, v
Neither American cavalry nor the
civilian posse In pursuit of bun-
dlts who murdered William l'ar-
ker and his wlfo at their ranch ,
In an Isolated district southwest
of llHchita N. M , crossed the
Mexican frontier, the trail having
been lost on the American side,
according to reports to officers of
the border patrol here lute to-
night. Tile reports were brought
by couriers, who said that the
nni imnnn wahiifm i
UUkUIIIIUU IIIIIIUl.il j.
IU UIUIIIIUUUU Ull
nr n i n tin nnnimnn
:t l m i u u . i i m u u r j li b
entire region is being combed in
un effort to discover some trace
of tho niaruuders.
The courier who brought the
bodies of (he victims to Hachlta.
' said that they had been found In
a bedroom, each having been shot
through the body several limes
with high powered rifle bullets..
1 Tho house had been looted and
hoof prints about the premises
indicated that a largo number of
t horsemen comprised the band.
-f -
Neglect of Duty, Malfeasance,
(V MUANIN9 JOURNAL ftStOAL if Aa Mftatl
l:i Puso, Tex , Jutm 27.e-NeWH of
a new foray of Mexican bandits upon
American soil, costing th- life of a
young American ranchman and his
bride of five months, today added to
Ihe tension that has held the border
since the Carrlzal encounter.
in Office, and liK:ompctency
A I P Plvirovvt: Allrp-Pfl hvy "Luig (he Texas and New Mexican
MIL vjIkllLS Mllv.i,t.U Uy(i,0.d,.r. were the victims of tho raid.
fiGVOrnnr iTlny were killed in their ranch homo
uwnmivi. j southwest of llaihlta, N, M., after a.
.ii a -desperate but unavailing fight by Ihe
young husband.
Coming on the heels of Carrlnul, the
,-t.bl ..,'f..t-l,.. r.-uU A..l..f.,. stf T.,VM
l ill liiiiii , 1 1- njii.iy iii'i'ii'ii ,,. .'lp,in
imj MflftNINfl JOUflNAl tRLriAL lOIIO WlSB
Denver, June 27. Governor George
. .. . . , ., ... ..1.-1...I m ,'
vans,.,, I ,..- ira.i) o, ..! inl,iv , ,..,t..i lh,, 1 ,, I .
Cupp. warden of the stale reformatory ,tional boundary seemed to add to tho
at llucna Vista, that hn round nun
guilty of "neglect of duly, malfeas
ance n on fe uw llicompeicncy ,o
the affairs of the institution and dl
fu..,.. I.liti tiir-n iiv-i.t ,1, u-ardetl-l
Ship tl) it L.
The m l ion
week before
ose out or l
Shaw.
follows a hearing last
tlu governor which
'app's refusal to comply
difficulties of the situation.
.May lime Crossed Line.
I Mititnrv tit li.ti-ll li.n linrn miilf'
,loiibe,l that the marauders, who aro
believed to have been members of a
tal,
two companies of engineers and
signal corps battalion of Infantry.
1 TH I'll l.D ICVITIiltV
IH'.I'AIMS IXIK MHiM I'S
the !
lMirtmenl
in en t. todav In which he declared that
the o resent svstem. or rather lack of!
" ' t
. 1 with Gener
The Day in Congress f NV r
. 1 j ,j0
Ccneral Cam
regon.
and Secretary I
St.
SEN ATI;: . !
russcu sundry civil uppi up, .hj" i pomict
'ill carrying $ 1 2.00(l,mio for midcei
luneous government expenses.
I'esumed debate on postoffit e
Kopriatlon bill.
Ui'Cessed ut 5:4s p.m. until '11 a
'ednesday.
(tire Septuagenarian.
Augustine, Fla., June 27. --An-
mi Mil was made here today by
Toilet at '-essoi les? Where were they ?
Orpet was able to describe the
contents ami arrangement of the
.slocl; witli moderate, confidence.
And a Poor One.
"You remember a row nf drugs,
about the middle and a. big bottle
marked 'Cyanide of potassium' and it
was labeled Poison' and bad a skull
and cross-bones on ft'.'"
The lawyer leaned forward nd
burled the question at the witness.
orpet's shrinking aatitude in tho
chair was varied only by shifting to I A inerb a n naval ships
the other side as he returned a low1! was accepted todav
Salt Lake Cltv. 1'tah, June 27.
Tile first baltery I taii field artillery
left via the Salt Lake route tonight
for Nogab's, Ariz. The organization
has 142 imti, five officers ami four
H-lm h guns.
band of stock thieves, known to have,
a lair In the faslness of the Sierra
Madri's south of the New Mexico bor
der, would be overtaken before they
recrossed Into Mexico, pointing out
that tho ranch is but four miles from
Ibe line.
officers of the American border pa
trol had been unable to learn tonight
a
with demands several months ago
that he relinquish his position. The
matter w as taken to I ho courts ami
Cupp was sustained in his conten
tions inui inecnarges upon vwucn nm whether any of the cavalry dctaeh
l emoval w as sought were not suf f i. , m(.nts ordered in pursuit had crossed
(lently specific. About two monlhs the border because of Ihe Isolation of
ago Governor Carlson bad served up- the district. Conviction was ex
on Capp a complaint selling forlh the 'pressed, however, that If the troopH
chiirires in detail idlscovered the raiders' trull.
In .be ,v,.rnr' .1 ,. tement oolifv - ' bave followed them Into the
ing Warden Capp of his dismissal-
lie declans Unit Capp bad permitted '
Iwentyfoiir escapes from the Instltu-
the.V
Mexican
r.M IUI. Iff I'MtTMI'.NT TO
KI SII TKOOI' .MOVBII'AT
ap
HOl'SE:
Appropriations committee reported
urgent bill carrying l250..)2,fi!M
'or national guard pay. equipment' Miaekleton Thanks
"id transportation and a. bill contiiiu-i Montevideo, 1'ruguay,
'ng until July 31 all appropriations a dispatch to the liritish
in cessarv for the operation of thi- reporting ,lls return to
government which remain unprovided after having failed
lor on June 30. i ice conditions, to
I the Florida Fast Coast Hailroad coin
I I I. ..I l..,..i,oiiinr Ink' 1 ..It its em
I plo.vees w ho have reached the age ofj"x".
70 years will be retired and those nav-1 i"n n-e t n,-. ....ji-i-i-..
ing served at least ten years priori "Do you mean to say that you hung
to retirement will hen pensioned. The 'out In that drug store every day, knew
pensions will be two per ceni of th . everybody and ev erything in it. and
employees' salary at retirement mum
plied by his lenn of years.
MOVIE NEWS SERVICES
WOULD BOOST RECRUITING
IBV MOIINlNa JUUft'iAL triCiAV I.CA8K0 Will
Washington, June 27. -.A proposal
by five moving picture weekly news!
srevic,. to bno..t recruiting for lhe
navy through pictures showing the!
at Vera Crii?!, :
by Secretary I
Chicago, June 27. Troops in the
eiiitial department will start for Ibe
bonier as soon as they are 'reason
ably ready.'' regardless of whether
lln-v are fullv supplied with horses
and supplies, according to informal Ion
given out tonight at the headquarters
of Maj. Gt ii. Harry.
territory.
'o I'neo, inter Likely.
It In not iielleved, however, Iu tho
leeetit tlit-v have i't-ni.virl Ihe l.Oi-rli-r.
lion In little more than a year, c,, ,(hll(; (h(,y wl ,,,.,,.,. UIly cumn,
ing the state $!! : that he permitted ;eist.i troops, all available report- heru
extreme and Inhumane punishment of indicating Ihe larger American forces
minutes, "lashing them with a lash have been concentrated cast and south
made of two pieces of tug leather and of the district In Chihuahua and
in some instances have allowed us :southward of it In Sonora.
Mexican reports lonighi indicated
mat Oen. Jacinto Trevlno, command
ing the Carrtincisla oriny corps of the.
north, has practically completed tho
many as seventy-three blows to ho
Hlruck an inmate who was blindfold
ed, si i etched over a horse, his hands
jiio i.-ei ,,.- ,, p,o, ,,n ",,M 'disposition of his troops in prepare
thin tit kiiiLt Ironsei-s which were b-;ton for possible hostilities with tin
ing ut rep lied light over his body b.
one of the guards." other instances
DISTICH T l' t OU MIil A
.rmsMi; i, i:vi: today
Daniels.
Cnigiui).
June 27. In
minister here
Port Stanley
because of heavy
effeet the rescue
!of the main body of his' Antaniic
into the army sent to i expedition left on Klephant island,
I Lieutenant Fi nes, Shackleton ''X-
bill repoitetl for ..... is thanks to the I'ruguayaii gov-
Naval ruilitiai,.,..,,.., ... w hich i,la,-ed a vessel at
Hav resolution for diaftlng the na
iionul guard
conference.
Military academv
I'HssHge Thursday.
1 .iiarilsnicii Want Air Assignments.
! New York, June 27. -Major C. V.
;Dartmali of the I'niled Stales signal
never,, oil, cd thai I skull and and cross-, Z11(M '(if ,.fvilin 11M( national gunid
bones on the only bottle m the rw'.viiilM,, held a conference with offl
llhat i allied it.'" demanded Mr. Joslyn ' ,.,iH of the Aero club of America last
'in a manner so menacing I hat Attor-j night and received from them a list
' ney Knlph F. Potter of the defense, i of the men w ho ale ready to enter tho
' in if In an objection i aviation service. At I -ast 300 officers
1 .-V.. - .,..l,l II... u ll,,...- i of
i Prolific Corrcssmloiioe
I The young colli guilt's letters to Ma
rion numbering forty-four and cover
ing a period of more than a year,
abounded ill expressions which were
the national guard throughout Hip
country have usked for transfer to
I aviation duly.
Wa'hitr-'loM. June 27. The District
lor Columbia's guardsmen oribtod to
Jthe border tonight, probably will cn
i train for liisbee tomorrow. A bal
jtalloii of negro infantry was mustered
Into the fed. -tal service bite today but
the while infantry regiment affected
by C.eneral Woods order has not
qualified because it is below the re
quired peace strength. In addition lo
the negro battalion n company of si
ral troops and a dozen additional of
I leers have been mustered In.
consular appropriation j
''HI consideted bv naval affairs com
mittee. Ail,, pted conference report on dip
lomatic Mtld
bill.
Considered conference report on!
Inderal farm loan rural credits bill.j
Adopted conference report on rural
oedits bill. Adiourned at 2:27 n. in.'
disposal for the purpose.
Suffragists I lend) for Scnalc tttv.
Washington. Juis- 27. Senators
, il'lllll pii,tl-H H fll-IH M!,,-, Mil" I'UIl Illl
'OS ! ,,,,, , a,,,,- ,,.,, r. .nil . tin. inrv Lixt ...... . ... , ..... ... ...
...... ...... ... .... . , v I ne.l weie mioilll',1 lonuv ov .vl I It.
Santa I'e t hairman Klecled.
New York. June 27. Walker 1.
Mines, chairman of Ihe executive com
mittee of the Atchison, Topeka and
Santa Fe railway, was today elected
to the new position of chairman of ihe
week. This orpet explained was be
cause ill many cases they were r
soouses to things said in her letters to
him or were used as a precaution
against their being read by some per
son other than the recipient.
Most of the crofs-examinaiion was
devoted lo these fX plcsSiO UB. Ml'. JoS-
. hised wen
Carrie Chapman Call and other suf
frttge leaders that they were content
to have the senate vote on tbp Susan
li. Anthony constitutional amendment
without further debate. In a confer
ence between senntnr and suffrage
leaders emphasis was laid on the time
needed to dispose of appropriation
MIK
Oregon P.atlalion l.nliains.
Clackamas, lire., June 27. The
Thud baltalion of the Thud Infantry,
Oregon national guui'd cntialned and
left i am p Wilb.v combe for San Di
ego, Cal.. late today. The seooiiu,
battalion goes Wednesday.
Guard Doubled at Texas apilol.
Austin, Tex.. June 27. Guards have
been doubled at Ihe state cupltol
buildings because of the Mexican situ
ation, it whs announced today Or
ders were issued to seah all sus
picious Mexicans entering the buildings.
the alleged showed thai boys had been
beaten so severely that they "lost con.
tl "I of themselves," and "one taint
ed." Ho charg, s that, he found the In
mates had been fed diseased and
ipoilcd meal. Oilier charges relate
to an inmate, "healing his way to
Sail like city and then to Missouri";
contributions by the employes lo help
I'app resist removal: riot at the In
stitution "because of iiibaiianagc-ni'-nl."
VISITING SUBMARINE
SHOWS ACTIVITY
1'nilcJ Slates
Trevlno DlsKieH Trisi(iet.
The command, the strength of
i which ts variously estimated at iii.nni)
to 40,00(1 men, has been distributed,
'along the two railroads of Chihuahua,
jthe Mexican Central and the Mexican
.Northwestern nnd in the Sanlti Maria
J river valley In such a way as to me
;nace the American line of conmiuni
! cation and present an obstacle to a
possible American drlvu to word Cbl
i li ua h un ( " i t .
J For more I Inn a week Hoops have
I been concentrated In for, e at strate
gic points north of Chilian una 'City
laloiif,- the Mexican Central, running
, directly south from Juarez. Prepara
tions to oppose and American attempt,
to use the .Mexico Norihwf stern road.
I which extends in a sweeping seinl
Iclrcle, the are of which bends to Ibe
west, from Juarez, through Ca.t.ia
iliamlt-s, .via, bra and Santa Ysabel, lo
Chihuahua City, also have been made
by Ibe stationing of large forces at
I'.ustillos and Guzma.i. At both of
rar muhnim joumnac lltaio wftl
Paris, June 27.- Head Admiral 1 e- j
goiiay, letireil, writes to the newsp.i-;
hers that the German submarine I'-iC
whi, h recently took a letter from Kin-!
prior William to King Alfonso has these places several thou.-wind men are
since sunk a number of French, Ui it-jsold lo be encamped, the palpable ob
ish and Japanese steamships. He us-'ject at Guzman, about fifty miles
set ts an Investigation should be made laoul liw est of here, being to block any
us to the right of the Spanish author!-' effort to use the road to transport
Ins to welcome the submarine at Car- supplies from the border to Gener."l
Ingenu and deliver supplies to It when 'Pershing's column, and that at Bus
It was on the eve of making raids on, till, ,s. seventy miles wesl of Chlhuu
shtpping. things di.'pHlchinjt troops by rail to
llu-h Order for Ammunition.
Philadelphia. June 27. -A rush or
ier for 20.111,0,000 rounds of small
arms uiiiiiiiltlon was being filled at
one of the government arsenals here
today. The cartridges will be con
signed to the government arsenal at
an Antonio, Tex.
ifHlve tllu Wt:i1 Ul.illtl
1 I.. I I ...... I .
i.iiiiii.iiii imjnM m, ittHiK.
Several thouuand si'Ciers, including
some artillery, are said to be bivou
acked in the hills above the Santa
Clara canyon, about twenty mile esst
of Namiquipa, their Runs "oinmand
lng the canyon through which pnsea
the wagon roud south Utwurd Chihua
i I
I I
'. I
I !
; f
!t ('
I: I
until noon Wednesday.
I board of directors. ,
I'
