54,000 National Guardsmen in East Ready to Entrain For Mexican Border
HARRISBURG ifSSlli TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 14S
REPLY OF CARRANZA TO NOTE EXPECTED
TODAY; BELIEVED TO BE UNFAVORABLE
MEXICO WANTS
TOJNVESTIGATE
CARRIZAL FRA Y
IVo Suggestions or Proposal of Negotiations Will Be Ac
cepted; Prisoners Must Be Released; If First Chief
Delays Immediate Repudiation President Will Imme
diately Go Before Joint Session of Congress
THIS IS REGARDED DY OFF
AS CRUCIAL
Answer, According to Specia I Agent Rodgers, Will Sup
port Previous Assertions That American Troops Are
Responsible; Indications Are That Congress Will
Comply Promptly With Request For Armed Rescue
Force
By .Associated Press
\\ ashington. June 28.—Special Agent Rodgers at Mexico City,
in a brief telegram dated yesterday and received at the State De
partment early to-day, said he expected to be handed to-day Car
ranza's reply to the American note demanding the release of soldiers
taken prisoner at Carrizal.
1 he message containing but two sentences, was the first word
the department had heard from Mr. Rodgers since he reported the
delivery of the note. It said it was believed the Mexican authorities
were investigating the Carrizal affair but gave no indication of
what would be the reply to the American demands.
To Go Before Congress To-morrow
There was nothing to indicate to-day that the Washington
government's position had undergone any change. Officials still
expect President Wilson to go to Congress to-morrow if Carranza
failed to act or replied unfavorably. Anything short of immediate
release of the American troopers will be unsatisfactory. No sug
gestions or proposal of negotiations in this regard will be accepted.
It was pointed out to-day that Sec
retary Lansing's note presenting the
demand sought to open no discussion
of the Carrizal incident. The fact that
the men were captured and were being
held was viewed, as a hostile act re
quiring immediate repudiation by the
de facto government through release
of the prisoners.
Believe Reply Is Unfavorable
Mr. Rodgers' statement that Car
ranza officials appeared to be conduct
ing an inquiry into the Carrizal clash
was interpreted here as indicating
rather that the reply would support
previous assertions that American
troops were responsible than that a
change of attitude was to be expected.
While it will not affect the general
policy of the government, a final re
port on the Carrizal fight from Gen
eral Pershing is awaited here with in
terest. The only account of Captain
Morey must be supplemented by that
of troopers who were with Captain
Boyd. A board of officers may be as
signed by General Pershing to as
semble a report based on the stories
of all commanders.
Eliseo Arredondo, the Carranza am
bassador designate, still had received
no word early to-day from his chief
about the status of the diplomatic ne
gotiations. Mr Arredondo has in
formed General Carranza of the deter
mined sentiment In the United States
demanding the release of the Ameri
< Other Mexican News Pages « and 7)
THE WEATHER
For Hnrrlnhurjf and vicinity: Fair
to-night and Thur*dayt moder
ate temperature.
For Kaatcrn Pcnnaylvania: Fair to
night and Tliur*day: not mtieh
change in temperature: light
north Hindu.
River
Heavy loeal rain* In the taut
twenty-four houra have atarted
rl*ea in the tributaries. the Hue*
being moat decided In the Che
mung nnd Junlnta river*. The
North Branch will rl*e two or
three feet at \Vllke*-Barre In tlie
next twenty-four houra, and a
alight riae la Indicated for the
Lower West Branch. The main
river will rlae slightly or remain
nearly stationary above Harrl*-
burg to-night and rlae Thur*day.
The lower portion of the main
rher will continue to fall alowly
to-night and Hue allghtly Thur*-
rtav. A stage of about S.fl feet In
Indicated for Harrisburg Thurs
day morning.
General Conditions
An area of relatlvelv high pres
sure cover* the Ohio Valley and
the Lake Region, with Ita center
over Michigan. Another high I*
moving alowly Inland from the
Pacific ocean. Preaaure con
tinue* low over the Rocky Moun
tain nnd Plateau regions.
Iyoenl showers have occurred In the
last twenty-four hours In the At
lantic and Gulf States, the heavi
est falling In *onth Carolina,
Oeorfln and the Su*<iuehanna
Valley. More rain ha* fallen In
the >'orthwe*t State* and the
Weatem Canadian province*.
It I* 2 to lO degree* cooler In the
Ohio Valley. Interior of Xew York
and In Southern Michigan.
Temperature: R a. m., TO.
Sun: *llaes, 4:210 a. m.| acta, 7:37
p. m.
River Stage: 5.S feet above low
water mark.
Teatorday** Weather
TTlgbest temperature. *2.
T-owe*t temperature. (W.
Mean temperature. 75.
Normal temperature, TS.
BY CARRIERS 6 CENTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
can troopers, but has had no reply.
This is Crucial Day
This wa: regarded by Washington
officials as the crucial day in nego
tiations.
Indications were that Congress
would comply promptly with President
v\ llson's request in case- he should find
it necessary to send an armed expe
dition against Chihuahua.
Only incidental consideration was
given by the State Department to-dav
to Mr. Arredondo's communication of
yesterday asking that thirty Mexican
civilians, who, he said, had been ar
rested in California and Arizona, be
[Continued on Pago 3]
14,000 Guardsmen From
East on Way to Border;
40,000 More Are Ready
By Associated Press
New York, June 28.—Some 14,000
national guard troops from the De
partment of the East already are on
their way to the Mexican borde to
day. Upward of 40.000 more are in
state camps or armories waiting to be
sent away as soon as equipment and
transportation can be provided.
Responding to an urgent appeal
from General Funston for more troops,
Major-General Wood Is trying to for
ward additional regiments as quickly
as possible. He hoped to be able to
start for the border to-day a brigade
of Pennsylvania troops, a regiment
and a battalion of field artillery and
possibly a regiment of engineers and
a regiment of cavalry from New York
state, the Xew Hampshire contingent
and cavalry and field artillerv from
Massachusetts. The Twelfth Infantry
Regiment of New York city and the
Second Infantry, having headquarters
at Troy. X. Y„ but now at Camp Whit
man. expected to entrain at anv mo
ment. The First Battalion of the First
Field Artillery, the Twenty-second En
gineers. a squadron of the First Cav
alry and the field hospital and ambu
lance company of New York also are
reany to start le-day if transportation
is provided.
Patriotic Sons to Form
Regiment of Volunteers
A call for volunteers for a Patriotic
Order Sons of America regiment, to
be formed in this city and vicinity, was
issued to : day To-night a meeting will
he held in the rooms of Camp No. 8,
Third and Cumberland streets, when
enlistment will begin. This camp al
ready has one company of reserves or
ganized and ready for service. Plans
have be_en started for the organization
of another company in West Fairview
and vicinity.
Colonet William W. Schank. of the
First Regiment of Pennsylvania, issued
the call, and has urged the appoint
ment of a general committee to take
charge of the recruiting work, and all
men between the ages of 18 and 40 are
requested to apply. No men will he
accepted under five feet four inches in
height, and all should make applica
tion to Captain W. H. Best, of Com
pany B, Camp No. 8.
„. Th * matter has been referred to tn»
war Department.
in.ooo SPARKLERS FOR CHILDREN
Alderman Fritz Kramme, of the
Fifth ward, announced this afternoon
that he will have 10,000 sparklers to
give to the children in that district
on the Fourth of July. The magis
trate is planning a little celebration
for the youngsters similar to the ones
he gives on other holidays In the
vear.
TRAINING MEN AT GRETNA FOR MEXICAN SERVICE
"Forward, march!**
drill In the Infantry camp at Mt. Gretna. Hours are spent each day by the captains and Hentenahts of the com
panlea, to get the men in shape for hard work when they are called to Mexico.
PENNSY BENDS
EVERY ENERGY
TO MOVE MEN
Have Gathered in Every Avail
able Car For Transporting
Gretna Troops
In the event of a rush order to move
soldiers from Mt. Gretna to Mexico
within the next 48 hours, the Phila
delphia division of the Pennsylvania
Railroad will use up every available
passenger car now on sidings between
Harrisburg and Lancaster. This was
an official announcement made at di
vision headquarters to-day.
In order to take care of subsequent
movements, It will be necessary to an
nul certain trains and take one or
more oars from other regular trains, It
was said. A new schedule will be
[Continued on Page 6]
Pumps Eight Bullets
Into His Sweetheart,
but She Will Recover
With eight bullet wounds in her
arms, body and leg. Miss Violet Mau
gans, aged 16. of Edgemont, who was
shot last night by Elmer Deavens, of
Fishing Creels, is in the Harrisburg
Hospital, but will probably recover,
according to Ihe physicians."
The man shot the girl, according to
the story she told her father this
morning, because she told Deavens
not to call again, as she had another
sweetheart. Her father said that
Deavens shot the girl once, and as she
fell to the ground fired the remaining
five shots In his 32-caliber revolver,
then reloaded and fired several more
bullets.
The girl's father saw the shooting
and chased Deavens. but the latter es
caped over the hills near Edgemont.
County Detective Walters and other
officers in the city and county are on
the trail and railroad police are watch
ing all trains.
The girl has three bullet wounds in 1
the arm and the remaining five in her 1
body and leg. It is not believed that
any vital organs have been injured.
WAR BRIDE SUIT OX
By Associated Press
Wilmington. Del., June 28. —Before,
Judge Thompson, of Philadelphia, in !
the United States District Court in this i
city this morning, was started the trial i
of the case of Francis I. du Pont and
others to compel Pierre S. du Pont. 1
president, and eleven other officials of i
the E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. :
to turn over to that corporation stock
valued at about $56,000,000 which is
alleged to have been unlawfully ac
quired by the defendants for them
selves. The stock In dispute formerly
belonged to T. Coleman du Pont.
MUCH INTEREST '
IN N. Y. DINNER
Politicians Look Forward to
Meeting of Hughes and
Col. Roosevelt
By Associated Press
New York, June 28. Republican
politicians looked forward with inter- 1
est to-day to the meeting to-night be
tween Charles E. Hughes and Theo
dore Roosevelt, when the Republican !
presidential nominee and the man who !
as head of the Progressive party en- i
[Continued on Page 8]
THREE SONS ENI.IST
Three sons of Mrs. McCalley,
1503 North Second street, have enlisted |
in Pennsylvania companies and will !
leave this week for tbe border. James j
B McCalley, the aviator, is captain an't
adjutant of the First Field Artillery, |
of Pittsburgh, which was made up from
the Fourteenth Regiment, at Mt.
Gretna; Aloysius, student at Villa- ;
nova College, is a member of Battery |
F, First Field Artillery, of Pittsburgh, I
and J. is a member of Company I,
Eighth Regiment, Harrisburg.
TAGEBLATT SUSPENDED
By Associated Press
Berlin, June 28. (Via London)
The Tageblatt, one of the leading Ber
lin newspapers announced this mora
in>, that its appearance had been pro
hibited by order of the military com- i
mander. This is the first instance for I
some months of the suspension of a
Berlin paper. J
HARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 28, 1916
CENTRAL-SOUTHERN
COUNTIES ORGANIZE
FOR PREPAREDNESS
Definite steps toward organizing
Dauphin. Lebanon, Lancaster, York.
Adams, Cumberland, Perry, Juniata,
Mifflin, Franklin and Fulton counties
for industrial preparedness under the
direction of the Xaval Consulting
Board of the Cr.lted States were taken
to-day when John Price Jackson. Com
missioner of the Stato Department of
Labor and Industry, met with the com
mittee appointed for the purpose from
this district.
The committee for District No. 3. as
the local section is called, consists of
the following: J. V. W. Reynders,
Pennsylvania Steel Company, repre
senting the civil engineering profea-
WOMEN OFFER TO
DISPENSE RELIEF
Preparedness Chapter Has De
partment Organized to Care
. For Soldiers' Dependants
The Harrisburg Chapter of Pennsyl
vania Women's Division for National
Preparedness to-day in a letter to the
Harrisburg Telegraph calls attention
to the 'fact that it has a department
equipped to look after the families of
soldiers and sailors and very gener
ously offers to look after the distri
bution of the relief money raised
[Continued on Page 6]
License Clerk Wig-wags
Questions to Bridal Pair
When Thomas Howard Jones and
Clara Bell Johnson, fellow students at
Gal'.adette College, Maryland, smiling
ly appeared at the Dauphin county
marriage bureau this morning and
suddenly did a lot of finger move
ments, all of the clerical staff of the
recorder's office but genial Jake Al
vord, the license clerk, stood agape
and wondered why under the stars
the callers didn't say something. Only
Mr. Alvord smiled knowingly—and he
wiggled or wig-wagged an answer.
Then he sat down and filled out a
marriage license.
To an astonished staff of fellow
clerks Mr. Alvord nonchalantly ex
plained:
'Years and years ago I used to run
around with a fellow who learned the
sign language pretty thoroughly and
he in turn taught me. Never thought
it'd be of any real value however,
until to-day. But it helped this
morning." The Jones newlyweds
elect were —deaf mutes!
An Interesting
Telegraph Feature
At the request of thin neivupaptr
Captain (ieorge F. I.umh will fur
ninh the Telegraph a ncrlen of little
talkn on military matters of live
Importance, which will he especi
ally Interesting to those not fa
miliar with military subject*. Cap
tain I,nnib enlisted in the Fifth
I'nlted States Cavalry when 18
yearn of aice and «tn ed four and n
half yearn with the Fifth Kegular
Cavalry of the Department of
Texan prevloun to the Spaninh-
Amerlcnn War.
He accompanied the Eighteenth
l/nlteri Staten Infantry In the urc
ond expedition to Manila, partici
pating; in the night attackn of July-
Si, August 4 and <1 and the attack
on Manila on Auxust IS, IROB. Ite
turniug to the I nited State* at the
expiration of the Spanlah-Amerl
enn War he wnn In Philadelphia
when the Philippine Insurrection
broke out In February, ISIMI. and Im
mediately re-enllnted to accompany
the famoun Ninth Infantry hack to
the Inlaadn. With thin regiment he
ner\ed on the \ortli linen and later
in the Inland of Samar nineteen
monthn. In addition to the China Re
lief Expedition of 1000, when he
participated In the attack of the al
lied foreen on Tlen-Txln and the
eighty-mile drive up the Pe-Ho
river that terminated In the attack
and capture of the walled city of
Pekln, where for eleven monthn the
regiment worked In co-operation
with the armle* of Fniiland,
France, fiermany, Runnin, Japan
uiul Xuntrla In quelling minor out
breaks Cnptaln l.umh left the aer
vlee finally In 100JS, when a ner
geant-major of the Artillery Corpn
.at Fort Flagler, \\ aslilnatoii state.
For nine yearn he ha* fllled the
otflce of Deputy Superintendent of
the Pen nny Ivan la State Pollc , and
on Fehrunry », 1l»14, wan ad, lifted
to the har of the Supreme Court of i
Pennaylvanln and Danpbln county.
The military talk* will besln to
morrow.
j sion; C. M. Kaltwasser, Harrlsburg
j Light and Power Company, electrical
; engineers; Aaron B. Hess, Lancaster,
i chemical engineers; E. Dawson Cole
i man, Lebanon, mining engineers, and
| Commissioner John Price Jackson,
j who represents the mechanical engi-
I neering profession.
The organization meeting was called
: to-day at an informal luncheon at the
' Engineers Club, at which Commis
| sioner Jackson was host. The com
missioner acted upon the request of
Dr. R. F. Baton, Mellon Institute,
j Pittsburgh, chairman of the Pennsyl
[Continued on Pa«e 6]
MASSIVE FIGURE
OF MOLLY PITCHER
Parade and Ceremonies at Un
veiling of Monument to
Heroine of Monmouth
Special to the Telegraph
Carlisle, Pa., June 28.—Carlisle to
day was in the grip of a patriotic wave
which has been fostering ever since
the local guardsmen were called into
service. Thousands of people were on
the streets during the entire day, the
majority of whom were carrying small
and large American flags. The occa
sion was the unveiling of the State of
Pennsylvania's monument to Molly
Pitcher, the renowned heroine of Mon
mouth. •
The monument, which was unveiled
[Continued on Page 2]
FOUR SHIPS LOST
London, June 28. Four vessels
were announced at Lloyds' shipping
agency to-day as having been lost.
They were the Japanese steamship
Daiyetsu Maru and the Italian steam
er Clara and the Italian ship Aventine,
which were sunk by hostile warships,
and the Dutch steamship Waalstroom,
which foundered. The crew of the
Dutch vessel was landedi
SANTO DOMINGO QUIET
By Associated Press
Washington, June 28. Rear Ad
miral Caperson at Santo Domingo ad
vised the Navy Department to-day
that Colonel Pendleton with a consid
erable force of marines was marching
80 miles overland from Puerto Plata to
occupy Santiego and Levege, interior
Dominican cities. Rebel opposition
was not anticipated. Conditions were
reported quiet in all part of the re
publics.
MOTION PICTURES
OF GRETNA CAMP
Telegraph Brings Them to Har
risburg; 10 Per Cent, of Pro
ceeds Goes to Soldiers' Relief
Motion pictures of Companies D
and T of the Eighth Regiment will
be shown by the Telegraph at the Vic
toria Theater ,tn Market street, to
morrow and Friday.
These films, made by a photographer
of the Mobilization Film Company,
brought on from New York especially
for the purpose, embrace 1,000 feet of
pictures of the Eighth, Tenth, Six
teenth and Eighteenth Regiments and
show in a very Intimate way how the
troops are quartered in Mount Gretna
and give a very good idea of camp life.
While the reels have not yet arrived in
Harrisburg, it is said they include
some very good views of the Harris
burg boys.
By arrangement with the Victoria
Theater management. 10 per cent, of
the proceeds of the money taken in
during the davs the films are shown,
Thursday and Friday, will go toward
the Telegraph's fund for the support
of soldiers' families.
P. R. R. DIVIDEND
By Associated Press
Philadelphia, Pa., June 28. The
directors of the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company to-day declared the regular
quarterly dividend of IVs per cent.
14 PAGES
LACK OF RECRUITS
MAY HOLD FIRST
BRIGADE LONGER
Gaps Made by Rigid Army
Medical Examinations Must
Be Filled
10 PER CENT. REJECTED
Squads Sent to Philadelphia to
Gather "Rookies" For
Three Regiments
By Associated Press
Camp Brumbaugh, Mt. Gretna, Pa.,
June 28. Major-General Clement de
clared to-day that he hoped Philadel
phia would come to the front with the
men to fill up the three regiments
from that city which have been given
the honor of the first organizations to
move from the mobilization camp. Ar
rival of recruiting parties from inter
ior towns and reports that more men
were awaiting word to come from
Chester, York, Harrlsburg and other
points and the prospects that the med
ical examination of the First regi
ment would cause more vacancies
aroused the general in command.
"I hope Major Brookfield comes
back from Philadelphia with 300 or
400 recruits," said he. "Rejections
[Continued on Page 0]
Telegraph School Picnic
Pictures at Majestic
Moving pictures made at the Tele
graph school picnic at Paxtang. Tues
day of last week, will be shown at the
Majestic Theater Thursday. Fridav and
Saturday of this week. The reel will
be on exhibition at all shows during
that period. The films Include glimpses
of Governor Brumbaugh, Marjorie
Sterrett. the "battleship girl," and
many of ihe schoolboys and girls them
selves.
H— "V 1 - "V - y•• yii •• T/v ■i^Vfiiiiiri^vii>iid|ftnjT:
T MEXICAN SOLDIERS TRY TO ENTER U. S. £
1 NOGALES, ARIZ.. JUNE 28.—AMERICAN OCCU- f
j PATION OF NOGALES, SONORA, LOOMED CLOSE X
f TO-DAY WHEN EIGHT MEXICAN SOLDIERS J
I WERE DRIVEN BACK BY A UNITED STATES SEN- J
i » TRY POCT AS THEY TRIED TO CROSS TO THE f
, AMERICAN SIDE. THE MEXICANS WITHDREW 1
< | AND MAJOR WILLIAM BROOKE ORDERED HIS i
, MEN TO "DROP ANYBODY YOU SEE ACTING |
< t SUSPICIOUSLY. IF A SHOT COMES FROM OVER • ►
THERE WE'LL GO STRAIGHT ACROSS." ;
, Philadelphia, June 28.—At a meeting of the board of I
| directors of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company to-day, the f
, following appoint ( »
■ Henry Wolf Bikle, formerly assistant general ; {
1 made a: su . l
4 ' pcrinic notive power, Williamsport, Pa., was made 1 *
1
mme ; c. West Philadelphia, was made superintc of j I
i motive power, Williamsport. I \
FIRE AT STEELTON ,
* Steelton.—Fire was discovered in a small frame dwell- ,
! ing in Bailey street, Steelton, at 3.45 o'clock this afternoon. r .
J P Ilarrisburg. Eleven mutual insurance companies, all' *
I of which were intermingled with the Aetna Fire and Ma
j I rine Insurance Company, Dover, Del., arc defunct and un-* >
| I able to pay a dollar of the $120,000 in risks which are' *
, chargeable against them, according to a report made late
| I this afternoon by Samuel W. McCullough, Deputy State' i
Insurance Commissioner, as receiver for these concerns.
, The companies are the Fairmount, Imperial, Metropolitan,! j
Columbia, George Washington, Loyal, Peoples, Mercantile, i
( i Colonial, Integrity, and Schuylkill mutual insurance con>| >
panics. • 1 j
Columbus, June 28.—Cowboys hunting the bandit slay- t
* ers of Rancher Parker and his wife to-day sent a courier to ' ,
' Hachita with news that they had located a hot trail and
t ■ were following it into Mexico. It is feared that fresh com-' '
I plications may arise from the venture of the cowboys, as j
j • they probably are well into the interior by this time.* 1 '
- ■ I '
~ MARRIAGE UCENSES , »
Jnra Obradovlc and Fetra Vorkopl<% Steeltoi,
, Thomaa Howard Jont'« and Clara Bell Joknioa, city. | J
CITY EDITION
ITALIANS PUSH
AUSTRIANS
STILL FARTHER
Capture Asiago Plateau, South
ern Side of Assa Valley and
Other Positions
BRITISH SHELL GERMANS
Bombardment in Flanders
Continues; French Hold Their
Own at Verdun
The notable advance of the Italians
over the ground from which they
were forced in the recent Austrian
offensive shows no signs of a halt.
They have pushed along the Asiago
Plateau, occupied the southern side
of the Assa valley and captured other
Important positions between Posina
and Asttco.
Disjatches from the British front
In France and Flanders lay emphasis
upon the intensity of the bombard
ment which is being brought to bear
upon the German lines. No important
move of the Infantry on this front,
however, has yet been reported.
The French are holding their own
north of Verdun where continued Ger
man attacks In the Thiaumont and
Fleury sectors, delivered last night,
were completely checked by the artil
lery and infantry fire of General Nl
[Continued on Pago 3]
NO INFORMATION OF NOTE
By Associated I'ress
Washington, June 28. No official
Intimation had reached the State De
partment early to-day as to when antl
how Carranza would reply to the Am
erican note. An over-night dispatch
from Special Agent Rodgers at Mexico
City brought only the information
that a special car left yesterday for
Vera Cruz carrying seventy Americans
Including 21 from Guanajuata.
