5Jhi$29 25P ' CPPer' f 7 S WEATHER-Utah: Generally Fair J':B
I $27.00?Z9.d&. j W J Tonight and Thursday; Cooler In 111
1 I - " - North Portion. !fc'!ll
1 FEAfiLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. II
' FcrtyH Vcar-No. 154. p,lca Five c UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, JUNE 28, 1916! Entered ,. Second das, M.tter at tn. p. an. m. t
I . . flff
CRUCIAL DAY IN CRISIS WITH
MEXICAN DE FACTO GOVERNMENT
held I, f .
A. Pes. '
Un? Probably Last Day Allowed General Carranza to Comply With
l hs J United States Demand President Determined Ample
Sfcaar Supplies of Clothing and Equipage Ready Quanti-
lotia ' es G Food Capture and Holding of
jr io, 1 American Soldiers by Mexicans Viewed as
nrnfij Hostile .Act Toward United
p3.3'h' States Government.
,stC ;
?ayabi, El Paso, Texas, June 8. El Paso was agitated this afternoon
k 'jj , ' by the report of a battle at Villa Ahumada, but there are no
actr ' Americans near Villa Ahumada or within thirty miles west of
mry cf Carrizal, according to an official message received by General
,jk? ' Francisco Gonzales in Juarez. Everything pointed to the com-
ate4t Pete retirement of the American forces that had been search-
' . mer for the Carrizal survivors, he added. His report was based
aidjft b . i r
:edat on an investigation by Carranza scouts.
m53
lasfib El Paso, Texas, June 28. "All the good people of both
& countries ought' to get together and work for peace, for this
tlfe war if it comes, will be hell on earth while it lasts and it will
gj J last a long time," Andres Garcia, the Mexican consul at El
to Paso said today. He made the declaration in army headquar
"S '' ters at Juarcz m ront which armed civilians kept guard.
$8? General Gonzales and his staff were in the offices, but the Car
afe.' ranza regulars were nowhere in sight.
ggf J Columbus, N. M., June 28. Captain Lewis S. Morey,
Ii the only surviving officer of the Carrizal fight, is expected to
i arrive here late today on his way to the base hospital at Fort
" Bliss, El Paso, where the wound in his shoulder will be treated.
j He is being brought to the border in an automobile.
I' Washington, June 28 Special
AfeiMU Rodgers at Mexico City in a
I unof telegram dated yesterday and
j lecencd at the state department early
I today bald he expected to be Jianded.
j today Carranza's reply to the Ameri
; can note demanding the release of sol
'. (hers taken prisoner at Carrizal
The message containing but two
sentences was the first word the de
partment had heard from Mr. Rodg
ers since lie reported the delivery of
lUU.. ; ihe note It said it was believed the
rift Mexican authorities were investlgat
offt ing the Carrizal affair but gave no in
flate dication of what would be the reply
aTO to the American demands.
yfiu Thls was regarded by Washington
fj5t$ officials as the crucial day in negotia
jgfg tions with Mexico.
' President Wilson Determined.
Lttof II vras Probably the last day allowed
atjB General Carranza in which to comply
Jfor ? wlUl tbe United States demand for re
'fljr leas of twenty-three troopers held as
12$ ' prisoners at Chihuahua City. If his
Mil reply, either by act or in a communi
ra cation, does not arrive by tonight, or
,TS! if it is unsatisfactory, President "Wil
$$ ' son Is determined to go before con
firf ; gress, probably tomorrow and ask au
$ . thority to rescue the prisoners by
am force.
JO Anything short of release of the
jjjgfl ', American troopers will be unsatisfac
fm ' tory. No suggestions or proposal of
H ' negotiations in this regard will be ac
H cepted.
Hf Hostile Act of Me'xicans.
rtW ' It was pointed out today that Secre-
aw ' tary Lansing's note presenting the de-
1H mand sought to open no discussion of
the Cnrrizal incident. The fact that
SB the men were captured and were being
51 ' held was viewed as a hostile act re-
$m ! quiring immediate repudiation by the
jgjf de facto government.
M Mr. Rodgers' statement that Carran-
Sgf - za officials appeared to be conducting
SU an inquirv into the Carrizal clash was
Wm ' interpreted here as indicating that the
,BkJ ' reply would support previous asser-
ls?ri , tions that American troopers were re-
'? sponsible, than that a change of attl-
sg."i tudo was to bo expected.
Sft Carranza Hopes For Aid.
Carranza's delay in replying is be-
Klieved here to be due largely to his
ihope to have South and Central Ameri
can countries agree fully to his course
beforo he takes a final step.
President Wilson had a very busy
K i day. He received a long line of sena-
W iters and representatives and shook
JJg; i 'hands with more than a hundred per-
3ij& ' John R. Silliman, consul- at Saltlllo,
& ,-ffho is now at Eagle Pass, Texas, ad-
$b v .vised the stato department of the re-
5flt ceipt by Dr. Atl editor of a Mexico
WA City labor paper, of a telegram from
SJ b General Carranza saying he was pre-
K'i j .i ,rQfviintr nossible to
H , j avoid a break with the United States.
P '1 Tr. Atl has been at Eagle Pass . par-
.' ' tlcipatlng in conferences designed to
5:1 aid in avoiding war and is expected
fe J to como to Washington this week to
L confer with the executive council o
: the American. Federation of Labor.
VAr Ample Supplies Ready.
91 War department officials UeHeved
5 , : they have perfected arrangementa by
K U hioh ample supplies of food equip
SS l Page and clothing will he Provided for
6 ail troops called into the federal serv
h ice, no matter how great Ihor numbers
3 xaay he. Secretary Baker today hade
gf Public the folloNving sUtement from
k, he quartermaster-general:
V V "ITie quartermaster corps has, up to
irt the present, met all the calls made
Sj'- upon it for supplies in the w7 '
tlt : clothing and equipage and with the ar
ty. ' nngements which we now have for pur
x , chasing- in order to replenish stock it
: not bdiered there will be any dilfi-
cully, no matter how many troops are
called.
"As far as food supplies are con
cerned these have been abundant in
.Quantity andof excellent quality -and,
arrangements are such that the same
will1 continue when the large increase
in troops in Texas is made, the mat
ter being entirely handled by the de
partment commander through the de
partment quartermaster."
Ambassador Hopes For Peace.
New York, June 2S Romulo S.
Naon, Argentine ambassador to the
United States, issued a statement
here today in which he said that, white
he had made no offer of mediation
looking to the settlement of the dif
ferences between the United States
and Mexico, he was "in candor, con
fident that the present crisis will be
peacefully settled "
The formal statement of the ambas
sador, prompted he said, ty published
reports that he' had offered mediation
to the United States, says'
"I have made no offer but it is un
necessary to say that the Argentine
government is always disposed to
work for the peace of America.
"Pan-Americanism which is vital for
all tho countries of the continent
whether great or small, young or
weak, makes a war between two
American nations utterly incongruous.
I am In candor, confident that the
difficulties will be peacefully settled.
We must make evident that no mat
ter how great the differences of two
American governments the continen
tal interests of union and concord are
supreme and inconsistent with re
course to violence as a means of set
tling international disputes in Amer
ica." Ambassador Naon would not discuss
what basis he had for his feeling of
confidence.
Barry Issues Call.
Springfield, Ills., June 28. Lieuten
ant E. M. Lewis, chief of the muster-Ing-in
staff here, received a telegram
today from General Barry, commander
of the central departmen, U. A., at
Chicago, ordering him to halt the mus
tering temporarily and to take an Im
mediate inventory of the units already
mustered. This is considered the last
step preceding actual entrapment of
the troops for the Mexican border.
Americans Leaving Mexico.
Washington, June 28. No official
intimation had reached the state de
partment early today as to when or
how Carranza would reply to the
American note. A-n overnight mes
sage from Special Agent Rodgers at
Arexico City brought only the Infor-
.. il liff rn3
matlon mat a special n j
terdav 'for Vera Cruz carrying Ameri
cans "including twenty-one from Guan
ajuato. Mexicans Concentrate Near Perahlng.
Columbus, N. M., June 28. Large
forces of Carrauzlsta cavalry are being
concentrated a short (distance east of
General Pershing's line of communi
cation hetween Colonla Dublan and
El Villa, according to reports brought
here today by army motor truck men.
The truck men assert that the Ameri
can expeditionary commander is drill
ing his men regularly and is sparing
no effort to make his force as mobile
as possible. A largo number of empty
motor cars are being Ttept in readi
ness at field headquarters for rapid
transportation of infantry. It is ex
pected that this is being done because
of reports that bandits have been
seen In the territory occupied by the
American command.
ARREDGNDO HAS
MABHWEST
Alleges Outrages Against
Mexican Citizens Have Been
Committed by Ameri
can Soldiers.
BRUTALITIES OF SCOUTS
Claims Arrest and Mistreat
ment of 300 La Cruz Civil
ians and Demands Pun
ishment of Officers.
Officers.
Washington, June 28. A note pro
testing against outrages against Mexi
can citizens alleged to have been com
mitted by American forces, 3000
strong marching from San Geronimo
toward Valle was sent to the state de
partment today by Eliseo Arredoudo,
Mexican ambassador designate, on in
structions from the Carranza foreign
office.
Vigorous complaint against the al
leged arrest and mistreatment of S00
civilians at La Cruz is registered in
the note with a request that the of
ficers responsible be punished and
steps taken to prevent a recurrence
of such an incident
Apache scouts with the Americans
were charged with brutal treatment of
the people in their path.
The column referred to is presum
ed to be a part of General Pershing's
main force.
So far as could be learned the war
department had not been advised of
difficulties, or of the arrest of any
civilians
nn
--WftySEAll
Military Prisoners in Chihua
hua Prison in Modern Sani
tary Cells and Well Fed.
CHIHUAHUA REPORT
Colored Troopers Are Hoping-
for Early Return to God's
Country."
Chihuahua City, Mexico, June 28
The American military prisoners in
terned in the Chihuahua penitentiary
are well treated and fed and the two
negro troopers who were slightly
wounded are rapidly recovering, ac
cording to a report prepared here by
British Consul Scobell in response to
a message from Ambassador Spring
Rice. The prison Ib a modern concrete
building with two storied cells, each
with modern sanitary equipment.
The Americans have the sole use
of one special division, with a large
yard for exercise. The prison director
nas put nis own huu ou uuty m luio
ward to look after the wants of the
m'en.
Foreign residents have furnished
comforts for the prisoners who are
hoping for an early return to the
American side.
"If wo can only get back to God's
country, we ain't going to leave there
no more," was the way one colored
trooper expressed himself.
General Trevlno has ordered Colo
nel Gonzales Diaz to occupy Namiqui
pa as soon as the reported American
evacuation is definitely confirmed.
Jose Ysabel Robles and Canute Reyes
are coming here to report to General
Trevino.
oo
OFFICERS PLAN
TRANSPORTATION
Railway Officials Studying
Routes to Obviate Conges
tion of Troops and De
lay of Trains.
San Antonio, Texas, June 2S Of
ficers of the quartermaster depart
ment were in communication today
with railroad officials to expedite the
movement of the national guard to
border stations. Army officers an
ticipate no difficulty in the transpor
tation of the thousands of men until
they reach converging lines where
danger of congestion will become
greater. Railway officials are study
ing the routes to obviate if possible
the necessity of delaying ordinary
train movements.
Reports to General Funston today
from Bordor commanders contained
no news of a clash other than that of
shots boing exchanged by sentries at
Nogales last night,
i
GENERAL BARRY
ISSUESJRDERS
All Units of Illinois, Missouri,
Kansas and Wisconsin,
"Reasonably Ready,"
to Start at Once. .
ASSIGNMENTS ARE MADE
Over 14,000 New York
Guards on Way 40,000
More Awaiting Word
to Start.
Chicago, June 28. Orders were is
sued today by Major General Thomas
II. Barry, in command of the central
department of the United States
army, for the immediate movement to
the border of all units of the Illinois,
Missouri, Kansas and Wisconsin na
tional guard which are "reasonably
ready."
The following order was issued at
General Barry's office
"Orders have been issued directing
the dispatch of al units in Illinois,
Kansas, Missouri and Wisconsin when
mustered-in, examined and reasonably
ready. The Illinois cavalry will go to
Brownsville, Texas. All other Illinois
troops to San Antonio Kansas
troops will go to Eagle Pass, Texas
Missouri troops will go to Laredo,
Texas. Wisconsin troops will go to
San Antonio. Texas. Other tronns
will be dispatched whenever reported
reasonably ready."
The Illinois troops already mustered-in
and said to be ready for imme
diate departure foi the border are the
First Cavalry and the First and Sec
ond Regiments of infantry.
New York Troops.
New York, June 28. More than 14,
000 natioual guard troops from the de
partment of the east already are on
the way to the Mexican border today.
Upwards of 40,000 more are in state
Scamps or armories waiting to 'he sent
away as soon as equipment and trans
portation can he provided.
The Forty-seventh regiment of
Brooklyn was ordered today to depart
for the border as soon as It could en
train. This was announced at Major
General Wood's headquarters. The
regiment has been waiting in its ar
mory for several days.
The last of the federalized militia
organizations called from Massachu
setts started south today. When con
centrated at El Paso, their destina
tion, New York's troops will number
25,000 men.
Fort Sill, Okla., June 2S The first
detachment of the four batteries of
the Fifth field artillery under orders
to proceed to Brownsville and El Paso
left here this morning. It is expected
all four batteries will have entrained
by tomorrow morning.
Mustering In Wisconsin Guards.
Camp Douglas, Wis., June 28. The
first battallion of the First Infantry
will be mustered into the federal ser
vice late today as the first infantry
organization of the Wisconsin Nation
al Guard to tako the oath. No date
for departure of tho troops has been
set. The first regiment is expected
to leave Saturday.
Missouri Troops Held Back.
Nevada, Mo., June 28 None of the
units of the Missouri National Guard,
encamped here will ,move lor the
border in response to Major-General
Barry's orders before tomorrow night
or P'riday, according to an announce
ment by Brigadier General Harvey C.
Clark, commander of the Missouri
troops.
The physical examinations of none
of tho troops can be completed before
tomorrow.
Kansans Await Transportation.
Fort Riley. Kansas, June 2S. The
rapidity with which tho Kansas Na
tional Guard moves to the border is
dependent entirely upon the railroads.
That declaration was made today by
Adjutant-General Charles K. Martin,
commander of the state troops.
Railroad officials here declared they
had arranged for the movement of
1200 troops to the border on Friday.
Fourth Dakota Regiment Not Ready.
Camp Ilageman, Redfield, S. D
June 28. The Fourth Regiment. South
Dakota National Guards will not be
ready to move to the border until
July 15th or 20th in tho opinion of sev
eral of the officers. Enlistment was
stopped this morning until tho federal
recruiting officers take charge.
Atjutant-General Morris has begun
preparations for raising two troops of
cavalry In accordance with orders re
ceived from the war department.
Regiments Being Mustered In.
Lincoln, Neb., June 2S. The Fourth
regiment of the Nebraska National
Guard has been mustered in and the
First battalion has been given physi
cal examination. Only a few more
than a dozen men were rejected from
the first four companies examined.
Tho muBtering-in of the Fifth regiment
Is proceeding rapidly today. The cen
traltral department has been notified
that the signal corps is ready to go,
having been completely mustered-in
and physically examined. Recruiting
for the Fourth regiment is progressing
at a good rate, forty men being added
Blnce yesterday morning.
SENDS MILITIAMEN
TO MEXICAN BORDER
Major General Thomas H. Barry.
Major General Thomas H. Barry,
commanding the central department,
has been directed to send to the bor
der 5,000 national guardsmen of the
central states as last as it can be
done, regardless of the sections of
the department from which they
must be obtained. The urgency of
the order indicates the need of reinforcements.
STRONG FORGES
OF VILUSTAS
Notorious Chieftians Leading
Bands in Vicinity of Juarez
Fresh Cause of Ap
prehension. REBELS JOIN DE FACTOS
El Paso, Texas, June 28 Fresh
cause for apprehension was found
along the border today in news of
the gathering of strong forces of form
er Villistas under notorious chieftians
in the vicinity of Juarez and the close
surveillance by the civil and military
authorities on former adherents, who
are now refugees in El Paso.
General Jose Flores, commanding
800 infantrymen, is reported in Juarez
after making peace with tho de facto
government. General Manuel Banda,
once a Villa subordinate known to be
across the Rio Grande, and Manuel
Medinavletla and Jose Ysanel Robles
also have taken advantage of the am
nesty granted by Carranza. Still an
other former Villa leader. Col. Maxi
mo Castillo, has joined General Gon
zales' garrison in Juarez Castillo,
who has been blamed for the dynamit
ing of the Cumbro tunnel In February,
1914, in which 25 Americans and 50
Mexicans lost their lives, recently
returned to Mexico via Vera Cruz from
Cuba, where he went after being re
leased from custody after the Cumbre
crime.
The bandit raid near Hachita, which
resulted in the murder of William
Parker and his bride, still was a fruit
ful subject of speculation today in con
nection with the presence of the Vil
listas In Juarez and the apparent lack
of protection afforded the border from
bandit raids. Their probable activi
ties In the event of hostilities gave
rise to numerous alarmist theories.
Food Croslng Border.
Although the embargo of munitions
still is enforced rigidly at points of
entry, that regarding food Is not. Sev
eral wagon loads of foodstuffs held up
at the international bridges were re
leased today after the consignors re
ceived permission from Washington to
send them across, in response io pro
tests against detention of the goods.
That the food shortage Is becoming
more acute in the Interior of Mexico
was declared by arrivals from the
south who told of breadlines in Chi
huahua City, Durango and Torreon
and brought pictures to substantiate
their statements
Organizing Dynamite Squads.
Mexican refugee who reached the
border today from the mining districts
of southern Chihuahua brought storie3
of tho organization of "dynamite
squads" In General Trevino's army.
They said it is planned that, should it
become apparent in the event of war
that the do facto troops could not
hold the railroads, to destroy them
and tho detachments now stationed
along the Mexican Central and the
Mexican Northwestern will be con
centrated at Chihuahua City. Bombs
and hand grenades, it was said, were
being made by plugging the ends of
small pipes after filling them with
powder, nails and scrap iron.
Tho largest guard since the pres
ent crisis doveloped was stationed
last night at the international brid
gos, although no fear that should an
outbreak occur, an attempt would be
made to rush the structure It was
believed that should any such a 'for
ay occur, the attempt would be stag
ed at some other point along tho line.
ITALIAN FORCES CONTINUE GREAT f
DRIVE AGAINST THE AUSTRIA! fl
m'W
Intense Artillery Fighting and Taking of Position After Posi- ftl
tion Reported British Bringing Fierce Bombardment to 1 j j
Bear on German Lines in Flanders and France ffr''ii!
French Holding Their Own at Verdun Four F K
Steamers Torpedoed in the Mediterranean. t L1 j.
GERMANS CHECK GREAT RUSSIAN DRIVE If
The notable advance of the Italians
over the ground from which they were
forced in the recent Austrian offen
sive shows no signs of a halt.
Dispatches from the British front in
France and Flanders lay emphasis up
on the intensity of the bombardment
which is being brought to bear upon
the German lines.
The French are holding their own
north of Verdun where continued Ger
man attacks in the Thiamont and
Fleury sectors, delivered last night,
were completely checked, according to
the Paris bulletin.
The German resistance to the Rus
sian offensive In Volhynia has been
further strengthened. Berlin an
nounces a gain of ground on the Styr,
where the village of Winiewka was
taken by storm from the Russians.
Rome, June 28, via London, 1:45 a.
m. The Italians have flung back the
Trentino front. The war office today
announced the capture of Monte Gia
mondo, north of Fusine and Monte Ca
viojo. These positions lie between
Posina and Astico. t l
The Italians also advanced on the
Asiago plateau, occupying the south
ern side of the Arsa valley and reach
ed the slopes of Monte Rasta Monte
Interotto and Monte Mosciagh.
Monte Columbara was carried and
the ItaUan advance reached the Galla
maria valley.
The communication adds: - -
"From the Adlge to the Brenta com
manding positions and strongly organ
ized defenses now reached by the en
emy have increased largely his activ
ity "in resisting our advance. Never
theless we made considerable prog
ress yesterday.
"In the Lagarlna valley and In the
Arsa valley there was Intense artil
lery action. We shelled positions of
the enemy on Monte Trappola and
Monte Teste and took the trenches i
near Malga Sugna. .
'On the Asiago plateau we occu-
pied the southern side of the Arsa
vnllpv and reached the slopes of Mon
te Rasca, Monte Iuterrotto and Monte
Mosciagh which were held strongly
bv the enemy's rear guards.
""Further north after carrying Mon
te Columbara, we began tb approach
Galamarra valley.
"On the Isonzo we captured 353 pris
oners. Including seven officers and
two machine guns."
Great Volhynlan Battle Checked.
Berlin. June 28, via London, 5:22
p mThe great battle In Volhynia,
where the reinforced German army
has succeeded in checking the Russian
advance, has resulted in further re
verses for the Russians. Announc
ment was made by the war office to
dav that the Germans have captured
the village of Winiewka, west of So-
kul, and Russian positions south oi
that point.
"Eastern front: The village of win
iewka, west of Sokul, and Russian
positions to the south thereof were
taken by storm. Otherwise notliing
of importance occurred on the east
ern front.
"On the Balkan front there were no
developments paart from artillery
duels between the Vardar and Lake
Doiran.
"Western front: From LaBassel
canal to the region south of the Som
me the enemy made reconnoltering
attacks, in conjunction with intense
artillery fire and mine explosions and
under the protection of smoke and gas
clouds. The attacks were repulsed
easily.
"In the Champagne, attacks were
made by weak detachments of tho
enemv north of Auneville failed.
"On the left bank of the Meuse, noc
turnal attacks by hand grenade de
tachments of the enemy were repuls
edi On the right bank the French
after about twelve hours of prepara
tion with the most intense artillery
fire attacked throughout the wnoie ot
yesterdav with strong forces, consist
ing in part of fresh troops, the posi
tions captured by us on June 23 on
the high ridge of Froi de Torre and
also the village of Fleury and the ad
joining lines to the east. The at
tacks broke down without exception
the enemy suffering extraordinary
losses
"On June 25 Lieutenant Hoehndorf
put out of action his seventh enemy
aeroplane, a Frenchbiplane near Rau
court An enemy airman was shot
down near Douaumont.
"It is ascertained on further inquiry
that tho report of June 23, stating that
Borne British prisoners were taken
among the attackers on Karlsruhe is
incorrect. All tho prisoners are
French." ,
Violent Fighting Continues.
Paris, June 28, 12:20 p. m German
troops last night delivered another at
tack on the French positions near
Fleury on tho sector of the Verdun
front over which violent fighting has
i i V
been in progress for several days. The r
assault was checked by the French ' j - 5
fire, the war office announced today. " (Lf j
There was spirited fighting near the ' ? j ,
Thiaumont work which the Germans fel'ir
captured several days ago hut no iT'HP
change took place in the situation & llr
there. , jf.-l;
West of the Mouse there was no in- ij l,f
fantry fighting of importance. Artil- fyv
lery engagements occurred In the sec- ''fv j
tor between Avocourt and Chattan- ?T ? 1
court r Is'
Tho statement adds: fit
"South of Lassigny the Germans nlf
endeavored last night to deliver sever- f ;c
al surprise attacks upon minor French JlV i,
posts. All their efforts failed. k T,
"In the Champagne district a strong !tf '
reconnoltering party of the enemy S; fah
which was trying to reach our lines ?i 1
along the road from St. Hilaire-Le vh
Grande to St. Souplet was dispersed." y t
British Guns Bombardina. fi i 8'
''
I I
ued today their bombardment over A X- (
broad front which was begun yester- i i '
day, according to the Associated Press (j i ?
correspondent who rode seventy mileB 5 j, '
along the lines. " : i '
Under cover of the bombardment, K'l
the British made numerous trench '
raids last night, bringing in groups '
of prisoners. " L ?,,,
Spanish-Steamer Torpedoed. j'W
Madrid, June 28 The owners of !J,:i'i
the Spanish steamer Comercio which ,; 'j
recently arrived at Alicante from ' - ?
Cette, reported to tho foreign office i
today that the steamer had been stop- f " ,
ped at sea" by a submarine flying the j ' E j f
Austrian colors. The captain of tha ll'll
Comercio was compelled to give full J j
particulars of all the ships which were 3ft '
in the harbor at Cette at tho time h ' W, '
sailed. ( a
Situation in Greece. If-G'
Athens, Juno 28, via London, 10:05 S'.n'; '
a. m. The situation in Greece re- R : i
mains critical and full of uncertainty jj ; a
although tho demands of the allies aro Jj. Hf
being rapidly carried out. The royal (,.w,
decree for the general demobilization .R
of the Greek army was signed by King t 'm'
ConsCantine yesterday afternoon and t '
a Venlzelos adherent, Zymbrakakis, 1 fo i
will be sworn in as chief of police to- a 'i
day. $ i
Rear Admiral Damianos has been jfi, ' ,
appointed minister of marine. Vice k
Admiral Coundouriotis who was first I J f
named, refused the appointment. 8 i j
French Quell Revolt. J J I
Raybat, Morocco, via Paris, Juno L.L ;
28. French troops have quelled a seri- f i ,
ous revolt of tribes in the El Quad re- j '. I , I
gion in Algeria after fierce fighting. it I
hl.j
Anents Watchina Ports. E .: L
Washington, June 28. Agents ot K'f j
the investigation bureau of the de- W ' I
partment of justice were instructed ST)
today to keep a close watch on all K h i
southern ports to prevent arms beini l I
loaded for Mexico. nh?'1'
kw)
Four Ships Lost. .". JL ;,
London, June 28, 2-10 p. m. Four j H 'J
vessels were announced at Lloyd's t v '
Shipping Agency today as having been j Jk A
lost. They were the Japanese steam- 31 "jH, j
ship Daiyetsu Maru and the Italian A M
steamer Clara and the Italian ship $
Avenjtino, which were sunk by hostlla 'i j6 1
warships and tho Dutch steamship ?lf
Waslstroom, which foundered. Tho y If I
crew of the Dutch vessel was landed. & n f,
The steamship Daiyetsu Maru was L ' It
sunk by a submarine off Barcelona, ft ' (
according to a dispatch from Madrid. in .
n'.l
Tokio, June 28. The Japanese ft. ' J
steamship Daiyetsu Maru was owned EJ If
by the Chuctsu Steamship company. iflij ' p H
The vessel had been chartered by a H Ii'ju
British company to carry coal from M f m
Cardiff to Marseilles. , 1
YOUNG WIFE GETS 11
PRISON SENTENCE 1 iJ
ijil
Fort Worth, Texas, June 28. Mr. j
Katherine Vance Harrison, 16-year- ,S ' .
old bride of Vance Harrison, was I ii J
found guilty of murder In the circuit r 1 1 1
court here today and sentenced to sev- i '
en years imprisonment. Mrs. HarrI JT j?
son "admitted killing W. L. Warren, a I j, ?
hotel proprietor, but accused him of J . -J
having despoiled her of her virtue. je. j
She married Harrison, a nephew of B i I
Senator Culberson of Texas, two day i : '
after the killing. jj j ; ,j
ST 1 '' r
Express Rates Discriminatory. r? ' Ml
Washington, June 2S. Express '!'
rates from Sioux City, la., to South r jf
Dakota points were held discrimlna- S . .
tory today by the Interstate commerca j,. ,
commission and a reduction in inter j i )
state rates wbb ordered. q : ft
if
ummmmmmmmmJi
