Weekly Journal-Miner
PRESCOTT JOURNAL-MINER, WEDNESDAY MORNING, JUNE 28, 1916.
FIFTY-THIRD YEAR
PIONEER PAPER OF ARIZONA
SUB-MITTEE
FAVORS PLAN
FOR BUILDING
BATTLESHIPS
NEXTYEAR
8 Capital Ships
To Be Constructed
SENATE MEASURE CALLS
FOR TEN ADDITIONAL
DESTROYERS; PROGRAM
OF GENERAL BOARD TO
BE CARRIED OUT.
By Associated Press.
WASHINGTON'. June 26. The
senate sub-committee today adopted
Wilson's recommendation for the
completion in three years of the navy
general hoard's program for 16 capi
tal ships .and decided on the addition
of 10 destroyers. It included the sub
stitution of eight capital ships next
year, four battle cruisers and four
drcadnaughts. instead of house pro
visions for five battle cruisers and no
drcadnaughts. - .
3 Killed During
Panama Election
By Associated Press-
PANAMA, June 26 Three persons
were killed during the presidential
election today. Valdcz, formerly
minister to the United States, is ap
parently elected.
Hay Resolution Is
Passed By Senate
By Associated Press.
WASHIXGTON. June 26. The
senate passed without a roll call to
day the Hay resolution providing for
th- drafting of militiamen into Fed
eral service. It eliminated -he house
appropriation of 1,000,000 for the re
lief of guardsmen's families and sub'
stitutcd a provision exempting men
with dependents from service. It an
thorizes the president to draft guards
men into Federal service whenever he
decides that an emergency exists.
EASTERN TRIP
Mrs. James O'Brien and youngest
child left last evening on a two
months' trip to visit her husband'.s
relatives in Wisconsin and then visit
her parents in Xcw York, none o
whom tfiic has seen for 19 years. Mr.
O'Brien, who is superintendent of the
Big Ledge Development Company's
properties iicar Humboldt, was in
Prcscott yesterday with his wife. He
is planning to join her in the Fall and
make th- return trip together.
WAR SCARE AT NO GALES
XOGALES. June 26. A detach
ment of 125 Mexican cavalrymen ap
pcarcd today across the line, causing
a flurry of excitement among rcsi-
lents. who feared they were the ad
vance cuard of an attacking force.
Colonel W. H. Sage dispatched
company of infantry to the line to
reinforce the gunrd. After riding to
within a block of the boundary the
Mexicans withdraw about half a mile
By Associated Press.
YUMA. June 26. Twenty-first in
fantry soldiers are guarding the La
guna dam and other points along the
irrigation system against possible
damage.
SILVER
NEW YORK, June 26. Silver,
SOLOIERS GUARD
IRRIGATION
SYSTEM
C3I4 cents.
Describes
Death Of ;
Sweetheart
ORPET TAKES STAND IN
OWN DEFENSE; SAYS
HE DID NOT POISON
MARIAN LAMBERT.
By Associated Press.
WAUKEGAN, June 26. Will
II. Orpct. charged with the mur
der of Marian Lambert, told in
court today that he did not see
Uier take poison, but saw her dy
ing in convulsions. He swears
the medicine he gave to relieve
her dclicalc condition was only
molasses and water as a subter
fuge to relieve the girl's mind. He
said he left her in the woods,
turned about, saw her dying trem
ors and fled. He said he threw
away the molasses bottle, which
was found later by his attorney,
R. R. Hawkins.
Sonora Prisoners
To Join Carranza
By Associated Press.
XOGALES. June 26. Carranza has
released all prisoners in Sonora bor
der towns, it is believed with the
promise that they would join tbe
Mexican army. General iturno
crossed the line today. He has been
in California purchasing supplies.
JOHNSON FOR HUGHES
SAX FRAXCISCO. June 26. Wm.
H. Crocker, Republican national
committeeman, arrived here tonight
with Governor Hirain Johnson. He
said Johnson would support Hughes.
INDORSE EDWARD HART
SANTA ROSA. June 26. -The dis
trict conference of Republicans today
indorscd Tdward W. Hart for con
gress from the First district
TEDDY URGES PROGRESSIVES TO SUPPORT
HUGHES; FINALLY REFUSES NOMINATION
Dy Associated Press. (nominated me for president, I now
NEW YORK. June 26. Charles Excommunicate to you my reasons for,
Hughes wired Secretary O K. Davis. I declining the '.honor, which I so deep-'
. i t 'v appreciate. Since the adjournment !
of the Progressive national committee, iof the convcm;0n j jlave recciVed be i
today
support.
welcoming the Progressive , tween two and three thousand letters i basis for that indispensable military ; made to yield from the standpoint of cx-Scnator Jacksoiu pending the con
He arraigned the Wilson !anJ telegrams from men who had 1 preparedness which rests on universal' the interests of the nation as a whole. . vention, which ran in part as follows:
administration for "weakness and in
certitude." Hughes published a letter
to Roosevelt, declaring that the nation
was indebted to the colonel "for
quickening tnc national spirit and de
mand for out-and-out 100 per cent
Americanism."
Hughes said today: "I welcome
the Progressives' support. We want
a revival of the American spirit and
the nation restored. The most seri
ous difficulties of the present admin
istration arc due to weakness and in-j
certitude. I am convinced that by
prompt and decisive action, which ex
isting conditions manifestly called
for, the Lusitania tragedy would have
been prevented. Unprcparcdncss in
the midst of Mexican perils is a dem
onstration of unpardonable neglect
for which the administration is re
sponsible. No intelligent man is de
ceived by the temporary prospcrity
dac to abnormal conditions. No one
will fail to appreciate the ploblcms
when the war ends. Industry must
have proper protection if labor is to
be safeguarded.
"The sober truth, as I sec it, is that
as wc go forward we must make the
Republican party the instrument of
our advance. Wc want deeds, not
words, and far-reaching national
policies."
Hughes decided upon Ralph E.
William, Oregon Republican 'com
mittecman, as vice-chairman 01 mc
Pacific Coast, with headquarters prob
ably at San Francisco.
Progressives For Hughes.
CHICAGO, June 26. The Progres
sive national committee voted today
to indorse Hughes. The move was
led bv Perkins. James R. Garfield, and
Chester H. Rowell. The vote was 32
to 6, nine declining to vote. Secret
tary Davis read Roosevelt's letter en
dorsing Hughes. The letter follows
To the Progressive National
Committee:
Gentlemen: In accordance with
the letter I sent to the Progressive
national convention as soon as I had
received the notification that it had
ICARRANZA'S
COLLAPSE;
WITH MEXICANS AT PROGRESO'
j
Lansing Tells South American to Keep Out of Unclej
Sam's Affairs; Railroad Traffic Experts Routing Mili
tary Trains to Border; Destroyer Goes South-
By Assoclnted Press.
WASHINGTON, June 26. Car-
ranza officials' plans for Latin-Amer-
ican mediation in the Mexican crisis
collapsed without reaching the stage
of a formal proposal to the United
States. Secretary Lansing has noti-. ;
ficd Bolivian Minister Caldron that'
Washington sees nothing to arbitrate, j
Caldron later said the time seemed
inopportune for arbitration. The Unit-,
cd States is awaiting Carranza's reply
to the note demanding the release of
prisoners taken at Carrizal. Formal
announcement of the intentions of the
war department 'have called for a
greater haste in getting militia to the
border. The house passed the annual
appropriation army bill today, adding
$26,000,000 for use in emergency.
Railroad traffic experts arc to work
with army quartermasters in routing
trains to the border. President Wil
son expressed liis appreciation today
of business .houses which are permit
ting employes to serve with full pay,
retaining their positions.
Mexican Is Killed.
BROWNSVILLE. June 26. One
armed Mexican was killed and an
other is believed to have been wound
ed by a Third cavalry detachment do
ing patrol duty at Progrcso, 41 miles
west of here. The Mexicans failed to
halt at the command of the Ameri
cans. The wounded man escaped.
Destroyer Goes South. I
SAN DIEGO, June 25. The dc-j
stroyer Stewart arrived from San
aUJJfJUl IIU 1111. 1UI lilt. illMlllllUllUll, 111.
majority expressing the desire that 1
would refuse to run. while the minor
ity urged that I would accept the
nomination. As it is a physical im
possibility to answer these letters and
telegrams individually, I beg of the
courtesy of the senders that they will
accept this public statement in lieu
of such answers.
Before sneakincr of anything else. I
wish to express my heartiest anu
to cxnrcss mv heartiest anil
most unsiinicu aumirauon xor inciicci lie ciuuuuicu in urn miuliuic uii
character and service of the men and
women who made un the Progressive
convention in 1916. I can give theni
no hiirhcr Draise than to sav that in
all respects they stool level with the 1 1912 championed them, and I am sure conscience. Within the Republican j in addition to these public state
men and women who in 1912 joined ! that these men and women will showjnarty conflicting forces were at work . .ments I had also stated my attitudes
at Chicago to found the Progressive a like loyalty to the other, fundamen- J There were men among the organiza- J verbally, and in letters during the
party. These two conventions, in 1 tal ideals which the events of the past I tion leaders who advocated a course j weeks immediately preceding the con
character in disinterestedness, in ' two years have proven to be vital to j of action such as offered no improve- vention to scores of leading Progrcs
vision. in insight, in high purpose and j the permanency of our national exist- j mcnt upon the Democratic position 1 s;Ves from .ill parts of the country,
in desire to render political service to ence. The method by which we are, and advocated the nomination of can- including many of the leaders at the
the people, typified exactly what such j to show our loyalty to tnese ideals , didatcs whose election would have 1 convention. To these men 1 express
bodies ought to be in a great self-1 must be determined in each case by j represented no improvement upon the . ed my earnest hope that the Rcptib
governing democracy. They reprc-'thc actual events. Our loyalty is to 1 continuance in office of Mr. Wilson. Hcans would so act as to make it pos
sented the snirit which moved Abra- the fact, to the nrinciplc. to the ideal. If such a course were followed, it 3it,lc for the Progressives to join
ham Lincoln and his political associ -
atcs during the decade preceding the
close of the Civil war.
The platform put forth in 1912 was
much the most important public
document promulgated 111 this coun
try since the death of Abraham Lin
coln. It represented the first effort
on a large scale to translate abstract
formulas of economic and social jus
tice into concrete American national
ism: the effort to apply the principles
of Washington and Lincoln to the
need of the United States in the 20th
century. No finer effort was ever
made to serve the American people,
in a spirit of high loyalty to all that
is loftiest in the American tradition.
Events have shown that the Pro
gressive party in 1912 offered the only
altcrnativc to the triumph of the
Democratic rarty. Moreover, these
events have shown that the applica
tion of the principles which wc then
advocated is even more necessary to
this nation than wc at the time sup
posed. The results of the terrible world
war of the past two years have now
made it evident to all who arc willing
to sec. fhat in this country there must
be spiritual and industrial prepared
ness, along the lines of efficiency, of
loyal service to the nation, and 01
MEDIATION
CAVALRY
Pedro today and will sail tomorro-v
for Mazatlan.
.
M'S TChanged .
WASHINGTON, June 26.-A wire-
less message was sent broadcast to-
TO
ER
BATTERIES OF FIFTH
ARTILLERY FROM FORT
SILL ARE CALLED TO
CITIES ALONG BORDER.
By Associated Press.
FORT SILL. June 26. Four bat
teries of the Fifth field artillery, 'nave
been ordered to entrain immediately
for the border. Two will go to
Brownsville and two to El Paso. The
batteries are equipped with Howit
zers. WEATHER FORECAST
For Southern California and Arr
zona: "Fair and wanner."
WT
ARE
ORDERED
D
practical application of the precept position to do what we regard as the
that each man must be his brother's very best. It remains for us, good
keeper. Furthermore, it is no lesslmmorcdly ai.d with common sense,
evident that this preparedness for the to face the situation and endeavor to
tasks of peace forms the only sound get out of it the best that it can be
military training and whicn finds cx-
pression in universal obligatory
vice in time of war. Such universal
obligatory training and service arc
the necessary complements of uni-
vcrsal suffrage and represent the
realization of the true American, the
! democratic ideal in both peace and
i war.
Sooner or later the national prin-
cinlcs championed by the Progrcs-
i sives of ivis ir
i sues of WIS must m tncir general ei-
bodied m the structure ot
lour national existence. With all my
heart I shall continue to work for
i these great ideals, shoulder to shoul-j
! dcr with the men and women who in
iand not merely to the name and last
I of all to the party name,
The Progressive movement Siaa
! been given an incalculable impetus by
what the Progressive party has done,
Our strongest party antagonists have
accepted and enacted into law or em
bodied in their party platform very
many of our most important princi
ples. Much has been accomplished in
awakeniner the niiblic to a better un
derstanding of the problems of social 1
and industrial welfare.
Yet it 'nas become entirely evident
that the people under existing condi
tions are not prepared to accept a
new party.
It is imnossiblc for us Progressives
to abandon our convictions. But wc
are faced with the fact that as things
actually arc. the Progress vc national
organization no longer offers the
means Whereby wc can make these
In or ..nilnnM
life. Under such circumstances out
duty is to do the best wc can and nol
to sulk because our leadership is re
jected. That wc ourselves continue
to believe that the course wc advocat
ed was in the highest Interest of the
American nconlc is aside from the
question. It is unpatriotic to refuse
to do the best possible merely be
cause the people Hiavc not put us in
PLANS
CLASHES
niglit to ships at sea warning them
not to be guided by all lighthouses
on the Mexican coast. Some have
been extinguished and the character
istics of others changed.
CALLED TO DUTY
j WASHINGTON, June 26. A gen
Scral order has been issued calling to
1 rhc colors all army officers who have
been retired but who are still able to
he of service. A supplemental order
may be issued calling out all former
officers of the national guard who arc ;
still fit for duty.
BOMB IS FOUND
XF.W YORK. June 26. What hadi
the appearance of being a bomb witn
nine sticks of dynamite, was found j
today behind a door of an entrance)
of the Federal building. The bomb:
and th? dynamite were wrapped in
a package, the paper of which was
slightly scorched.
AERIAL PATROL PROPOSED
WASHIXGTON. June 26. Es
tablishment of an aerial patrol along
the entire Mexican border is planned
by the war department should war
come. More than 30 aeroplanes re
cently have been ordered.
CONSULATE DESTROYED
EAGLE PASS. June 26. A mob
of 3,000 headed by the mayor and a
Carranza army -band destroyed the
United States consulate at Torrcon,
June 18th, according to American
refugees who arrived here today.
This was the situation at the open -
scr-j;n!r Qf tj,c prCscnt year. It was cvI -
i dc7it that unless a cataclysm occur -
r?(j thc oresidcntial election would
i Te'nu n the choice of either the Re-
nl,i,lican or the Democratic nominee.
The present administration, during its
three years of life, has been guilty of
shortcomings more signal than those
r i.,.. ,.i,;,,;cirnt;niT sinre the itnvs
of Buchanan. From the standpoint
of national honor anu interest, u
-- . . : .
stood on an even lower level man in
i administration of Buchanan
No ad -
f i ministration in our history has done
- more, to relax the spring of the na -
tional will and to deaden the national
would obviously become our duty to
run a third ticket. Rut it was plainly
our duty to do everything honorable
in order to prevent such a necessity;
to do everything short of sacrificing
our most sacred convictions in order
to secure the alignment under one
leadership of the forces opposed tolnl'andcd in a great crisis would make
the continuance in power of Mr. imperative upon us to run a separ-
son and the Democratic party. (ate ticket; and that whether in such
Under these circumstances the Pro- j event it would be necessary for me to
grcssive national committee at Chi-1 head tnat ticket conld not be -dctcr-ca-'o
in January, outlined our duty to j mined in advance. I stated in these
scck'common action with the Repub-. interviews and in these letters with
lican partv using the following words: j.thc utmost emphasis that the decision
"Our people arc seeking leadership j of this point, like the whole matter of
leadership of the highest order and . running a separate ticket, would have
most courageous character: leader-1 to be determined bv wliat the intcr
ship th.-t will draft to itself for tnc ! csts of the country demanded in view
rnnirv'5 henefit the unselfish and pa-! of the action finally taken by the con-
tnotic services ot its auicsi citizens. ; vciuio is ai
The surest way to secure for rnirj At the time manv of the RepuM.ca
country the rcm.ircd leadership will leaders asserted tnat n cms
I.p l,v havimr. f nossihlc. both the 'were not made in good faith, that 1
Progressive and Republican parties
choose the same stanaaru nearer ami
H,e same nrinciolcs."
Siv w-cks later, on March 9th in
mv Trinidad statement. I asked for a
similar combination against the Dem
ocratic party, on a platform of
"Clean-cut. " Straight-out National
Americanism" and for a condidate
"who will not merely stand for such
El Paso To
Be Largest
Army Camp
20,000 GUARDSMEN AND
5,000 REGULARS WILL
BE IN BORDER CITY BY
END OF WEEK.
By Associated Press.
EL PASO, June 26. With
20,000 guardsmen 'here at the end
of the week and 5.000 regulars.
El Paso will be the largest mili
tary concentration camp in the
United States. Border cities arc
quiet tonight. Pershing's Carri
zal and Villa's Ahtimada battle
report is denied- by Mexicans,
who believe the Carrizal fight
will be an object lesson for Amer
icans. They say the friendly rela
tions between the Mexican de
facto government and Guatamala
will be resumed as tne result of
the fight.
4,000 Californians
Ready For Service
By Associated Press.
SACRAMENTO, June 26. With
the arrival of the Seventh regiment
at the mobilization camp here today,
4.000 troopers arc now available fo
State service. Complete mustering
into the Federal service will take
two Iays. First cntrainments to the
border arc expected tomorrow.
STRIKER IS WOUNDED
TACOMA. June 26. One union
longshoreman was shot and seriously
wounded today by strikebreakers at
the Sperry flour mill.
CLOUDBURST HITS TOWN
PENDLETON, Ore., June 26. A
cloudburst nit the town of Helix to
day. Heavy damage resulted
a program before election, hut win
resolutely and in good faith put U
t.irough it elected. '
This was. in effect, the same state-
: mcnt that I made in my telegram to
! "Can wc not, forgetting past differ-
Cnccs, now join for the safety and
! honor of our country ,to enforce The
policies of genuine Americanism and
genuine prcoaredncss? Surely we can
. afford to act in accordance with tnc
words of Abraham Lincoln when he
j said. 'May not all having a common
interest rc-uu:tc in a common effort
to save our common country? May
wc ask those who have not differed
i : t a . , . ... eimn cntrir 1 1 1
ran us w jum m w "ik
c ward tnosc wno ,-iavc: iar a m
1 own soul is known to me it is in tin
j same spirit that at this time I make
j my apoeal to the Republicans am.
1 Progressives assembled in Chicago.
with them. I stated to them. How
ever, that in view of the attitude of
some of the Republican leaders, it
was at least conceivable that we
should be put in a position where our
highest duty, our fcaltv to the coun
try, our sense of what patriotism de-
really intended to .insist w mymn.
i iiurainauuu uv u. ;
I tion and that if I was not so nomi
natcd. I intended to acceot th
Pro
gressive nomination anu run un a
third ticket. Of course, my fellow
Progressives were under no such er
ror. They knew that 1 se mood
(Continued on Page Two)
ITALIANS FORCE
AUSTRIAN!! TO
WITHDRAW;
SLAVS TAKE
2 TOWNS
Volhynia Is Scene
Of Heavy Fighting
RUSSIANS PROGRESSING,
IN BUKOWINA BUT ARE
REPULSED IN ATTACK
NORTH OF KUTX; VI
ENNA ADMITS DEFEAT.
By Associated Press. .
LONDON. June 26. The Italians
have forced the Austrians at Trentino
to retreat along their entire front.
Vienna admits their withdrawal. Rus
sians arc progressing in Bukowina
but their attacks were repulsed north
of Kuty. Cossacks crossed the
Dncistcr and took two towns. Heavy
fighting is in progress in Volhynia.
Artillery actions arc reported at Ver
dun. Villa Once More
Reported Wounded
By Associated Press.
FIELD HEADQUARTERS, June
26. Major Howze unofficially report
ed today that Villa had been shot by
a Mexican gang and carried for miles
with a bullet in his leg. His fate is
unknown.
Prepare To Resist
V. S. Troop Landing
By Associated Press.
WASHINGTON, June 26. State
department advices today indicated
that port officials on the cast coast of
Mexico arc preparing to impede any
attempt to land American troops.
Harbor and lighthouse signals have
been extinguished the last several
nights on thb Yucatan coast and else
where. AVIATOR IS KILLED
OSHKOSH, June 26. Charles
Miles, the av'ator who fell here yes
terday while looping the loop in a war
monoplane, died this morning at 6
o'clock at St. Mary's hospital. Hem
orrhage or the brain due to liis in
juries caused his death.
BRITISH TO ASSIST
LONDON, June 26. American af
fairs iii Mexico will be taken over by
British diplomatic and consular offi
cials in case of war. Arrangements
have virtually been made for the tak
ing over of Mexican interests at
Washington by the French embassy.
TWO TRANSPORTS SUNK
ROME, June 26. Italians sank two
Austrian transports off Durazzo to
day. LEAVES FOR BORDER
FARM INGHAM. Mass.. June 26.
The Ninth infantry, militia, started
for El Paso today.
COPPER
NEW YORK. June 26. Electro
lytic: Xcarhy, nominal, September
and later, $27 and $29.25.
HOUSE PASSES
,000,000
ILL
By Associated Press.
WASHINGTON. June 26. The
house today passed the army appro
priation bill unanimously, increasing
the total to $180,000,000. The appro
priations committee agreed on a $25,
000,000 deficiency bill to provide funis
t call the national guard into Federal
service.
180
AM YB
