J
v
MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In Tbe gugla will bring buyer
and sailer together.
fte'
Mil M C
THE WEATHER.
Tonight and Thursday partly cloud
weather.
AND PILOT
VOL XXX, NO. 154.
BRYAN, TEXAS, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28, 1916.
PRICE 4.00 PER ANNUM
Answer from Cawranz is
Em
77 7r? 77
Fresh Fruits Thursday
Figs.
Plums.
Peaches.
Apples.
Oranges.
Bananas.
Apricots.
Grapefruit.
Blackberries.
Cantaloupes.
Hardy Newton
GERMAN
5
CITIZEN
RUSSIAN
E
Henry Lena Is Victim of Stroke While Teutonic Forces Have Been Rein-
Sitting Near Chimney at His
Home.
forced and Now Able to Cope
With Russians.
Rtf AmfuitmA Vrmmm
,ew minuies before 4 o'clock London, June 28. The great battle
yesterday afternoon Mr. Henry Lena, n Volhjmla where the reinforced Cer-
ho Urea In the Kurten community, man army succeeded In checking the
was struck by a bolt of lightning and Ruitslan advance, resulted In further
Instantly killed. Mr. Leni had been reverses for the Russians, the Ger
out In the flold plowing all day and mans capturing the village of Wlnlew
when the storm clouds came up he ka, west of Sokul, according to the
rushed to the barn and put his team German statement,
up and ran Into the house to get out The German troops last night de
er the heavy rain that was threaten- Urered an attack on the French posl
ing. He pulled a chair up to the win- tlons near Floury, where violent fight-
,dow and leaned back against the largo nR has been progressing for several
stack chimney on the east side of the days. The assault was checked by the
bouse and no sooner hsd he gotten French fire, Paris claims.
settled until a Hash of lightning struck Rome claims the Italians flung back
the chimney and came down, striking "the' Austrlans a further distance on
Mr. Lens on the lort side, and he died the Trentlno front, with the capture
in an Instant. The stroke did as they 0f Monte Claroondo and Monte Ca-
usually do. played a few pranks In the ronJo. which lie between Posslna and
house before It spent Itself In the Astironn.
ground by the side of the house. Kv- m
erythlng on the mantel was torn to
pieces, the dork was shattered and
as the bolt ran arrosa the room and
out the kitchen door It killed a rhlrken
CONTEST CLOSINU.
that had taken refuge from the rain
the back ateps.
Mr. Lent waa a man whom every
one liked and his untimely death rsme
at a great shock to the entire cltlxen
ship of the county. He waa known as
Ohrd working and fndustrlntis man.
who alwaya provided well for his fam
fly, which consists of a wife and one
little girl about five years old. The
Eagle Joins with the msny friends of
the bereaved ones In extending sym
pathy. The funeral waa held this afternoon
at S o'clock from the residence of the
deceased and waa conducted by Rev.
Vr. Freeland. Interment was made In
the Kurten cemetery.
AGENT AT DO CITY
50 IRES ISIE1
The Agent of the United States at Mexico City
Wired Washington He Would Receive Car
ranza's Final Reply Today No Intimation as
to What It Would Be Mexico Protests
Against Outrages to Mexicans by the Ameri
can Forces in Mexico and Demands Punish
ment of Officers and That Same Will Not Be
Repeated Situation at Nogales Was Tense
Today and Trouble Expected Any Minute.
Militia From Four States Ordered to Proceed
to the Border Reported That a Bandit Band
Near Columbus Was Wiped Out If Matter
Goes to Congress, Wilson Wants Non-partisan
Discussion.
(By Associated Trnn.) . mediate release of the prisoners will
Washington, June 28 Special Agent be satisfactory and no proposals or
Rodgsrs at Mexico City advised the suggestions of negotiations will be ac
stste department today that ha ex- cep(e(j
pected to receive Carranza'a answer
to the note demanding the release ot Troops Ordered to Border.
the American soldier at Chihuahua 1 i (By Associated Pr )
some time today. Hia brief message Chicago. June 28. Orders were la-
said it waa believed the Mexicans were sued today by General Barry, com-
Investigating the Carranza affair, but mandlng the central department, for
he waa unable to give any Indications the Immediate movement to the bor-
of what the reply would be. I der of all unite of the Illinois, Mis-
Carranza'a delay la believed here to sourl, Ksnsaa and Wisconsin National
be due largely to hia hope to have the ' Guard which are "reasonably ready."
South Americana agree fully to hia I
course before he takes the final etep.! 8ald B"diu wiPe(1 0ut
President Wilson told Senator Lewis; . Bjr ",a,,'d
. .... . . . Columbua. N. M June 28. Army of-
of Illinois If he went to congress he ' , . , .,
. m .. ... ... -i . . " bere are Investigating a report
)" "" ...... - -,-M- nrii-Lnriry-Lrij-L-Lnj-u-u-i. .iaai
HEADQUARTERS FOR
FIRST-CLASS GROCERIES
If you appreciate fresh groceries and prompt
service phone us.
PHONE
54
PHONE
78
i,,i.iM WHHWMf, nru
SOCIALIST
1
PLACED
TH
Charged With Attempted Treason
for Participating In Peace
Demonstration).
(By Associated Press.)
Berlin, June 28. The trial of Dr.
Karl Klebknecbt, socialist leader, was
, begun today before a court martial to
i decide whether he was guilty of at
tempted treason In time of war In par
ticipating in the May Day peace dem
onstration In Berlin. Parliamentary
Immunity aa a member of the Reich
stag baa been denied him.
wanted the aituation discussed on a
non partisan basis.
CRITICAL AT NOGALES.
that the murderers of William Parker
and wife on their ranch southwest of
Hachlta were caught early today on
thla aide of the border and killed. Tbe
message waa received by a relative of
. IIS8.000.000 FOR PENSIONS.
Senate Passes House Bill Without De
Sate In Less Than Two Minutes.
Exercises at Court House Friday
Morning Everybody Is Invited.
As has been announced. Frldry.
June 30, la the closing day of the pation of Nogales, Sonera, seemed poe-. In number, were wiped out
scholarship content that has been In lbl to0" " lBht Mexican sol-
I. n . n . -i v.u dlera war driven back hv a United Especte Peaceful Settlement
?" "PHS Trnn ill I M es.r 111 III w Villi SJ ri'W' "
msry 15. snd which has aroused such i 8U, entry poet aa they tried to'
a wonderful Interest among the women "M the American line. The Mexl-1
and girls of our town ar.d county. withdrew and Major Brooke I
Aa la well known, this contest was ( commanding, ottered his men to "drop
Inaugurated by the Bryan Woman! ' "ybody you aee acting suspiciously.
Club as an educational feature of the ' ,f hot "mM '' freight
vear'a club work, and they have la- eroae."
bored faithfully for t-e success of the
indnrtaklng. And now, they are spx-
Inns that the people of the entire town (Br xiumciated Pri)
end county attend the public exercises! Washington, June 28. A note pro
thst mark the rloatn- dsy. t the court testing outragea against Mexlcana al
house on Friday morning at 10:S0 leged to have been committed by an
O VlorV.
(By Associated Press.)
Nogales, June 28. American eceu- the Parkers and aald the bandits, els.
(By Associated Press.)
New York, June 28. Romulo Naon,
Argentine ambassador,- Issued a state
ment today In which ha said although
he has made mediation offers, he "la
confident the present Mexico-United
States crlala will be peacefully settled."
VERDICT
HADl FY
GASE
(Ml TH
IS MM
The Irish Revolutionist Told the
Court He Received No Money
From Germany.
(By Associated Press.)
London, June 28. Sir Roger Case
ment, speaking in a clear voice, today
told the high court of justice which la
trying him for high treason, that ha
received no money in Germany dur
ing his activities before tba Sinn Fein
rebellion In Ireland, which he is
charged with Instigating nnder Ger
man Inspiration. The end of the trial
Is in sight
MS
in con
Woman'a Shrieks Heard Blocka aa
Verdict In Sheriff Giles Murder
Case Waa Read.
wiPTrn it it uinnTii
iiiiiaiAi ri.Hunw
Charged in Connection With Her Hus
band With Murder of Rooming
House Keeper.
Mexico Enters Protest.
WILL TEST GRASSES.
Adaptability of Brazilian Grasses to
Be Testsd at A. eV M.
Adaptability tests with grasses, hay
! American force three thousand atrona nd for tn& rown Pensively In
The awarding of the scholarships, marching from San Geronlmo toward "ntn be mde br tte Te" A'
a . . . ... 1 l 1 A IV f
ann snort antireseea iy Mrs. at r. ; El Valle, waa aent to the atate d
Jackson and Miss Bernlre Carter, will partment today by Ambassador Ar-
Muskogee, Okla, June 28. Ida Had
ley was found not guilty of tbe mur
der of Sheriff Jake Giles on a Mis
souri, Kansas and Texaa train on
March 24 on the grounds of . Insanity.
Paul JIadley waa found guilty and
aentenced to life Imprisonment
Mrs. Hadley raved lnte a mad wom
an when the verdict was read. Her
shrieks were plainly auuible In streets
eight stories below the court room.
It required four police offlcera to over
power her.
(By Associated Preset
Fort Worth, Texaa. June 28. Miss
Katherlne Vance Harrison, aged 18,
waa convicted of the murder of W. L.
Warren, a rooming house keeper today
after a trial of a week, and waa given
five years. The jury waa out more)
than 24 hours.
FOUNTAIN BROTHERS MOVING.
Fountain Brothers are today moving
their offlcea from the Astln Building
at the corner of Main and Anderson
Streeta to the second floor of the Dixie
Theatre Building.
make tin a delightful hour. Besides, rednndn uimn Initructlnns fmm Par.
Washington. June 28. Without de- the dlsplnya of fruit, veretahles and ranza. He asks that the offlcera be'or,,on of ,n9 u,e
bate the sensle Tuesdsy paased the canned goods, ens and pnnltrv. ! punished and steps tsken to prevent a
general pension bill appropriating , hroneht In by the contestsnts, will be recurrence. There Is nothing to Indl
$1S8.00.oO. The measure was rsllod j worth a visit to the court house to 'rate the government haa changed Ita
np and dlnposed of In less thnn two aee. I policy.
mlnu,p- I The Knsle Is requested to empbsslxe ! Officials still expert President Wll-
I the fact that everybody men. women ! son to go before congress tomorrow
. Jsgle Went ds bring nukk re- ,nd rh(,rpn( ln ,ho ,own ,nd roun,r,! (-,, fnia to act or replies un
ults try one. I trf cnrrtiaHy nved to be present. I favorably. Nothing ahort of the lm-
inmnrui.wAiuui.uu.
atT
WE CARRY A LARGE
STOCK OF SHEET
MUSIC.
You can't lug a piano through a swamp,
or put a brass band in a car, but a Victrola
can be carried very conveniently and
made a prime factor of any outing party.
For moonlight picnics where dancing is
indulged in the Victrola is the ready
string band to furnish the music.
Victrola 4th $15.00. Victrola 6th $25.00.
PARKS
Visit our Victrola Department.
rlcultural Experiment Station at the
main ststlon at the a. M. College
and eleven sub-statlnns In different
T. R. Day. a
member of the class of loofi at the A.
A M. College, and who lias been In
dustrla'l commissioner for the Leopol
dlna Railway Company. Ltd., of Drstll
since 1913 recently returned to the
t'nlted States. Ho brought with him
arasses and crops grown successfully
In Ttraril and which lie believes ran
be grown with success In Texss.
The seeds have been taken In charge
by Director Voungblood of the experi
ment station.
Vanilla beans, a TJratlllsn cactus.
which Director Younsblood feels will
; be of especial value tn experimental
work, and other such Drlrsllsn plsnls
are represented In the large collection
1 which Mr. Day brought to Texss. An
agreement haa been made with the
, authorities at Washington so that Mr.
Day may send aeds for experimental
, purposes direct to Mr. Tcunsblood.
LENARO HALL KILLED.
Died Several Hours Arter He Waa
Shot With Pistol.
i
Msdlsontllle. Texss, June 28.
j I.cnard Hull was shot In the slomsrh
at 12:30 TucKday morning and died at
4 o'clock, three and onehalf hours
Uter, The shooting occurred on the
slrerl here when ho and Joe Creen.
night policeman, had a dispute. Hall
lived In the Center community and
came here to attend a stiow, A Bum
ber of relatives survive.
It Vill Increase the Beauty
and Comfort of Your Home!
toooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooeooooooooo
mi FURNITURE
b
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
$0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
t Don't build your home merely for out
side appearance. Make it attractive and
comfortable inside.
Our constant effort is to obtain new
designs that will meet with your every re
quirement, and with a close scrutiny of
every detail of construction in the manu
facture. Wc would like to have you call and sec
our stock of furniture those beautiful
bedroom suits in birds eye, mahogany, old
ivory and oak. Willow sets, comfortable
rockers, art squares, rugs and refrigera
tors. In our new home wc arc prepared to
show you our excellent lines.
W.T. JAMES, FURNITURE
"The Store That Gives Service That
Busy People Appreciate."
