BARM
BAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 89.
BAH RE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28, 1916.
TRICE, OXE CENT.
TED
E
V
U. S. POSITION
IS MAINTAINED
NOTEEXPECTE
SMALL FUSS
, AT NOGALES
Eight Mexican Soldiers Had
Tried to Force Their Way
Across the Border
Officials at . Washington Believe Pres.
Wilson to Lay the Whole Mexican
Situation Before Congress To-morrow
if Carranza Fails to Act or Replies
Unfavorably
WERE DRIVEN BACK
BY SENTRY POST
Major Brooke Threatens to
Advance on the Mexican
Town at the First Shot
CENTRAL STATE
TROOPS ORDERED
TO MOVE SOUTH
Illinois, Missouri, Kansas and Wisconsin
National Guards Are Said to Be
Seasonably Ready to Entrain.
Chicago, June 2S. Orders were issued
to-day by. Major Thomas H. Barry, com
manding uie cenm. ciepartment, tor the
immediate movement t the border of all
the units of Illinois, Missouri, Kansas
and Wisconsin National Guards which
are said to be reasonably ready.
Rock Island, 111., June 28. Fifty ear
loads of equipment for the central dm
sion guardsmen have been shipped from
the government arsenal, it was an
nounced to-day. Men are working in
eight-hour shifts and the for,ce has beer.
greatly increased.
EXPECTANCY
WAS KEEN
ALL BAY STATE TROOPS
NOW ON THE WAY
PEACE OR WAR HINGES .
' ON TROOPERS' RELEASE
Special Agent Rodders at Mexico City
Telegraphs State Department That He
Expected Carranza's Reply to be De
livered to Him Some Time To-day .
Nogales, Ariz., June 28. The Amer
ican occupation of Xogales, Sonora,
loomed close to-day when eight Mexican
soldiers were driven back by a United
States sentry post when they tried to
cross to the American side. The Mex
icans withdrew and Major William B.
Brook ordered his men to "drop any
body yoil see acting suspiciously; if a
shot comes from over there we will go
straight across."
GERMANS TRY
IN VAIN TO GET
FLEURY TOWN
Washington, D. C, June 28. Special Agent Rodgers at Mexico
City in a brief telegram, dated yesterday and received to-day at the
state department, said he expected to be handed to-day Carran?a's
reply to the American note.
There was nothing to-day to indicate that the Washington gov
ernment's position has undergone any change, and the officials stil
expect the president to go before Congress to-morrow if Carranza
fails to act or replies unfavorably. Anything short of the imme
diate release of the American troopers will be unsatisfactory.
CARRANZA PROTESTS
ALLEGED MISCONDUCT
A note protesting against outrages against Mexican citizens,
alleged to have been committed by an American force, 3,000 strong,
marching from San Geronimo toward Valle, was sent to the state
department to-day by Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador
designate, on instructions from the Carranza foreign office. A
vigorous complaint against the alleged arrest and mistreatment of
300 civilians at Lacruz was registered in the note, with a request
that the officers responsible be punished and steps taken to prevent
a recurrence of such an incident.
ARGENTINE AMBASSADOR
EXPECTS SETTLMENT
New York, June 28. Romulo S. Naon, Argentine ambassador
to the United States, issued a statement to-day that, while he had
made no offer of mediation, looking to a settlement of differences
between Mexico and the United States, he was in candor confident
that the present crisis will be peacefully settled.
; 1
ARREDONDO PROTESTS.
Carranza Representative Takes Things
Into His Own Hands.
Washington. 1). C, June 28. On his
own responsibility, Eliseo Arredondo, am
bassador designate from the Carranza
government to Washington, "sent to the
state department yesterday two com
munications. One complains against the
enforcement of n generd embargo on
shipments to Mexico; the other recites
that Mexican citizens have been arrest
ed without cause in California and Ari
zona. They warn Secretary Lansing that the
present situation between the two gov
ernments cannot fail to be gravely aggra
vated by these matters, although setting
forth that the ambassador assumes that
local authorities, not the state depart
ment were responsible for the troubie.
So far as is known, the state depart
ment has not been advised of the deten
, tion of Mexicans. It is an open secret,
: however, that a practical embargo on
: commerce between the United States and !
Mexico is being enforced effectually by
J customs and army officers, without the
1 authority of a formal proclamation.
PHARMACISTS ON WATER.
About
St.
Delivered Another Attack Last Night But
Were Repulsed, According to the
Official Statement at Paris Spirit
ed Fighting Near Thiaumont.
Paris, June 28. German troops last
night delivered another attack on French
positions near Fletiry on a sector of the
Verdun front over which violent fighting
was in progress several days. The as
sault was checked by French fire, the
war office announced to-day.
There was .spirited fighting near the
Thiaumont works, captured several days
ago by the Germans, but no change in
the situation. West of the Meuse there
is no infantry fighting of importance.
Artillery engagements occurred in the
sector between Avocourt and Cliattan-
court.
Field Artillery and Cavalry Entrained
During the Night "a nfl Early This
Morning at Framingham and Are
En Route to the Border,
Framingham. Mass., June 28. The last
of the federalized mijitia organizations
called from Massachusetts to protect
the Mexican border started to-day, the
field artillery arfu cavalry entraining
during the night and early una morning.
TO HAVE MACHINE GUNS.
Vermont Militia to Be Supplied from
Massachusetts Equipment.
Framingham, Mass.j June 28. The
equipment of the machine company of
tne Mxtn juassaohusette wilt be sent
to the Mexican border for the use of
the Vermont militia, ivhieh left yester
day for Texas. Col. Warren E. Sweetser
of the Sixth regiment, who Is in charge
of the recruits at the cpp ground here,
announced last night that he had re
ceived orders to this effect.
FUNERAL AT GRANITEVILLE.
RUSSIAN FORCES
ARE DRIVEN BACK
BY GERMANS
According to Berlim Report, the Kaiser's
Reinforced Army Has Captured ViJ-
, lage ofWiniewka in Volhynia.
Berlin, via London, June 2$ The great
battle in Volhynia, where a reinforced
German army has succeeded in checking
the Risians' advance, has resulted in l ies Anne
further reverse for the Rifsian. This! Mrs. Michael
Service for Michael Murphy Waa Largely
Attended.
Funeral services for Michael Murphy,
a well known (iraniteviUe rounu man.
who passed awav at the home of his
parent, Mr. and Mrs. John If. Murphy,
Saturday, were held in St. Sylvesters
church 1 uesday morning at B o clock, the
parish priest, Rev. Joseph Turcot, olli-
ciating. The bearers were: Philip Mur
phy, Thomas Murphy od Moses Mur
phy, brothers of tne deceased, and Mi
chael Donahue, Patrick J. Sheehan and
John J. Sheehan, brothers-in-law. In
torment was made in the;, Catholic ceme
tery, whither a large number of the
young mans friends accompanied the
ucmy. s H. -
Among the floral tributes were: An
chor, family; pillcw, "Our Uncle;" rose,
W. C. O. E.; roses, L. A.,eA. O. II. i rot.es
and sweet peas, Mrs. Susie Carroll and
family; roses, Mrs. George MeFarland;
roses and carnations, Mis. Ella Pitkin
and Miss Gwendolyn Pitkin; carnation,
and Gertrude Ryan and
Ryan; carnations, Miss
As Vermont's Federalized
Troops Left the State
for Mexican Border
ARE TRAVELING
IN DAY COACHES
estimated by sorrte as over 400, gathered
at the depot as the V. N. U. troops went,
through here yesterday afternoon,- The
band played, business men marched, and
all mercantile business in town practi
cally ceased during that time. Water
bury people gave the boys a hearty
send-off. , ,
D0RNH0EFER NELSON.
for His
The Regiment Numbers 934
Officers and Enlist
ed Men
announcement was made bv the war of-
ce. The Gernlans captured Winiewka, a
illage west of Sokul, and Russian posi
tions south of that point.
ITALIANS KEEP UP
THEIR ADVANCE
AMPLE FOOD IS
GUARANTEED
To All American Soldiers WTio May Be
Called Out in the Present Difficulty
with Mexico.
Washington. 1). C. June 2-8. War de
partment officials believe they have per
fected arrangements by which ample sup
plies of foo. equipage and clothing will
lie proiideri for all troops called into fed
eral service. The qiuuternixster general
rejwirts tltst all calls so far have been
met and there has been an abundance
of food supplies of exi-ellent quality.
SIX BANDITS WIPED OUT
100 and Their Guests Left
Albans This Morning.
St. Albans, June 28. About 100
members and guests of the State Phar
maceutical association left by steamer
Chateaugay this morning for a sail
among the islands in Lake Champlain.
Dinner was served at Fisk landing. Isle
La Motte. The election of officers is to
be held on board the boat. Anthony
Altieri of Barre was one of the ten mem
bers to be admitted at yesterday's meet
ing.
Addresses were given bv Trof. La-
Pierre of the Massachusetts College of
I'harmacy, Hoston, who gave facts of
interest regarding the college, and by A.
t. Iverohe of Springfield. At the close
of the mornine session luncheon was
served at the Tavern, the official head
quarters of the convention. The motor
trip for the women present was post
poned on account of the rain.
The Traveling Men's auxiliary held its
annual business meetini' immediately
after luncheon and elected the following
officers: President, I). G. Quebec of Rut
land; vice president, C. Wells of Bur
lington; secretary and treasurer, Percy
F. Bearse of Brandon.
The afternoon session of the conven
tion opened at the city hall at 2:30. C. I Paris. June 2S. A Zurich despatch to
Herbert Packard, president of the Mas- The Matin says that Germany's demands
sachusetts College of Pharmacy, gave u, n Switzerland for an exchange of eom-
aauress aner wnicn a ouHiness meetmit
Have Wrested Two More Positions from
the Austrians, Who Are on the De
fensive Over a Wide Front.
Rome, via London. June 28. The Ital
ians have flung Deck the Austrians a
further distance on the Trentino front.
The war office to-day announced the cap
ture of Monte Giamondo, north of Fii
sine, and Monte Caviojo, a position lying
between Posina and Astoeo.
The Italians also have advanced on the
Asiago plateau, occupying the southern
side of the Asia valley and reaching the
slopes of Monte Rasta. Monte Tnterrotto
anil Monle Mosciagh. The Italians have,
carried Monte Colombara and reached
the Gakmarra valley.
Paisi and Myrtle Pirie; carnations, Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Finnegan; carnations,
Thomas Cronie; carnations, John Ilea
ley; carnations, Guy George; spiritual
bouquet, Mrs. John, Ryan.
FUNERAL OF LAFAYETTE BOY.
GERMAN DEMAND
ON SWITZERLAND
AN ULTIMATUM
Zurich Despatch to Paris Paper Says
That Berlin Government Gives Neigh
bor Till Thursday Night to Agree
to Exchange of Commodities.
Following Murder of American and His
Bnde Near Hachita.
Columbus, X. M June 28. Army offi
cers are investigating the report that the
murderers of William Parker and his
bride on a ranch southwest of Hachita
were caught early to-day on this side of
the border and were killed. A message
'received by a relative of Mr. Tarker
said that six landts had been wiped out.
was held.
At the business meeting a letter was
read from Joseph P. Remington of Phil
adelphia stating that the Pharmacopoeia
would be issued within three weeks. Sev
en deaths during the year were reported.
W. E. Terrill of Montpelier g.ive a re
port of the annual meeting of the Amer
ican Pharmaceutical association at San
Francisco, to which he was a delegate
from Vermont..
A banquet was held at the Tavern lat
evening and a dance at the city hall with
i music by Romeo s orchestra, closed tlie
events 1,1 me day and evening.
modifies is in the form of an ultimatum
which expires at 6 o'clock Thursday
night.
HEAVY STORM DAMAGE
Was Done in the Vicinity of Vergennes
Yesterday.
C. V. ROADMASTER.
P.
HOUSE DESTROYED.
D. Fitipatrick Will Take Office at
St. Albans.
St. Albans. June 28. A circular was
issued this morning from the office of
Pres. F, C. Smith of the Central Vermont
j railway announcing the appointment, of
P. D. Fitrpatrick as general roadmaster.
with offices in St. Albans. He assumes
1 Morris A. Thomas' Property in Salisbury tion enc-ser.
Struck by Lightning.
Middleburr. June 28. In tbe hearr
tfofra th?t raced here yesterday after-ro-m
1 .rUis n stnuk the home of !-
r.i Thomas in Salisbury. which burned
lr te r,M:r. Tlie. In la estimate.! !
V.ss. raitlr roif r"d bv insurance.
Vergennes, June 28. One of the worst
electric storms in many vears occurred
here yesterday. Four different storms
closely lonowing earn other made in
reality
hours.
lightning and terrific thunder. One of
the storms was accompanied by hail and
torrents of water fell, flooding gardens,
and on Green street the water rushed
over the sidewalk ankle deep notwith
standing the deep gutters. The thermom
eter, which stood above 80 in the fore
noon, fell soon after 1 o'clock, when the
first storm began, to 60.
I'uring the storm the shaving bouse
belonging to the Vermont shade roller
plant was sfruvk by" lightning, setting
the shavinirs afire. The fire was soon
under control. No damage is apprehend
Was Held at St. Monica's Church Yester
t day Afternoon,
The funeral of William I.afayette, the
little sm of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Lafay
ette of west hill, wlioee accidental death
occurred Sunday evening,, was held at
St. Monica's., church Tuesday afternoon
at 2 o'clock, the parish priest, Rev. P.
M. McKenna, officiating. There was a
larg gathering of neighbors and other
friends. The bearers wer?: Perley La
fayette, Ernest Lafayette and Roland
Ifayette. brothers of the deceased, and
Henry Pacquette. Interment was made
in the Catholic cemetery on Beckloy
street)
The floral tribute Included the follow
ing: Pillow, parents, brothers and sis
ters; carnations, Mr. and -Mrs. deorge
Lafayette, South Barre grange, Mr. and
Mrs. Edward Oil prey. Sunshine club, Mr.
and Mrs. William I'iiprey, Mr. and Mrs.
C. Chapman, Mrs. Allen and son. Mrs.
Laphier. Mrs. C. Reed. Mrs. F. Hellville,
Mrs. K. Carey, Mrs. A. Racquet, Mr. and
Mrs. H. A. Holt, Mrs. Robertson, Ina and
iriuth Wood; pansies, Mr. and Mrs. M. L.
iTowne: p&nsies and snowballs, O. I..
Wood; lilies and snowballs, Mrs. Bean
I lieu; pansies. Mrs. Kelly; mixed flow
ers, Mrs. Belknap; rosea and carnations,
Mrs. P. Macey; pansies, Mrs. Bancroft.
ATTENTION!
Barre People in Whose Veins Flows the
Blood of the, Iru!t Race.
Ouring the recent rebellion in Ireland,
several hundred men were killed and
wounded, at least If were executed by
British authority and more than 2,tKH1 were
thrown into Hritish prisons.
The many thousands of dependents of
those men are of necessity thrown upon
the charity of the Irish race. Whether
those men acted wisely or otherwise is
not for us in America to aay. but the
fait that theveave up their lives and
one continuous storm for four I'heir liberty is proot of the tact that
There was incessant and sharp 'they believed with President Wilson that
every people stiouin nave a, rignt to say
under what sovereignty they shall be
governed.
There will be a meeting in K. of C.
hall on Thursday. June at 7:31 p. m.
to devise ways and means whereby the
people of this vicinity shill a-sist in
raising a fund for the maintenance of
those unfortunate people acro-s the sea.
Vour presence will asi-t in the work.
There will be a short nusical program.
"And the greatest of these is char;ty."
"Tell them we won't be happy till we
get there," was the way one of the Barre
boys In the 1st Vermont regiment sized
up sentiment among his eomraaes
when the troops train from Colchester
passed through Montpelier Junction on
tta way to Eale Pass, Texas, yesterday
afternoon. Entraining at Colchester
around 1 o'clock, the first section, made
up wholly of freight, horses, wagons, etc.,
with a sprinkling of troopers, reached the
Junction shortly after 3 o clock, men
three sections occupied by the troops
came through at intervals, each section
stopping while a patriotic gathering of
Washington county folk gave vent to
their patriotism, an emotion which, it
mar be added, was very often shaded
with regret.
Barre was largely represented in the
crowd that thronged the platform, and
Barre boys in the contingent, got many
warm handshake as the trains pulled
up. Adjutant V, Aewell narner was as
signed to the officers' coach, along with
Col. Reeves and Chaplain John M. Thorn-
There were about a score of Barre
men in the Company H contingent, and
Private Forrest Willey of St. Johnsbury,
son of the late L. h. Uley of Barre,
-as assigned to transit service m me
commissary section. Ihe young soldiers i
were in fine fettle and possessed just that
ne spirit of expectancy that will sen
hem in' good stesd during the nve day
trip to Texas.
"Tell them we won't be happy till w
get there!' It was an epitome of th
Vermont spirit, and perhaps the shades
of Green Mountain boys who fought
Bennington, Plattsburg, Chapultepec an
Gettysburg heard and smiled.
The men traveled in day coaches, but
supply of short boards were provided
which were to be laid over two adjoining
car seats and covered wiin niannets tor
a fairly comfortable bunk. Four commis
sarv cars with an adequate supply of
food and fresh drinking water went
along. Each soldier was issued five days
rations., fhe men are to be given
chance to get out of the train now an
then to exercise.
At Binghamton, N Y., ther will re
ceive supplies of shoes and socks, which
have been forwarded bv the war depart
ment, and also a supply of anti-typhoid
serum, lne guardsmen win not tie inoc
ulated with the serum, however, until
they have reached their new station
From Binghamton, the route will be
westward to Chicago, Kansas City, 51o.
through Oklahoma to San Antonio, Tex.
and then to i-agle I'ass. In passing
through Oklahoma, the train w ill stop at
two towns which are now connected by
an electric railway built a number of
years ago by Colonel Reeves, where
large, although necessarily brief, welcome
is being planned for them. There is some
doubt as to whether or not Kagle Pass
will be the final destination of the regi
ment, it being reported that it is merely
a junction point and that the Vermonters
will be joined there by other regiments
and transferred to another station.
The Vermont regiment is composed of
47 officers and So!) enlisted men, while
the sanitary troops, numbering four offi
cers and 24 men, accompanied the regi
ment. The first squadron of cavalry,
numbering 151 men, and about 150 re
emits, were left at the state grounds,
where ther will drill and equip. All the
men who failed to pass the physical ex
animation or tailed to take the oath are
to be discharged at once.
Sergeant Carl Nelson and five other
memliers of Company H, who failed to
pass the final medical" examination at the
state camp prior to the departure of the
regiment for the border, arrived in Mont
pelier last evening and this morning. Oth
er companies lost a much larger propor
tion of men. and all of the Company H
men who were rejected had only minor
defects that barred thorn from going
with their comrades. The other five were
Privates Shewell, Jones, Smith, Lothrop
and O'Brien.
Gov. Gates Uncertain About Special
Session.
Although no official information has
been given out regarding the proposed
special session of the legislature to be
called to authorize pay for the regiment,
the feeling prevails that Gov. Gates will
wait until something definite is done
toward the declaration of war. In the
Brooklyn Man Came to Barre
, Bride To-day.
Miss Mary Agnes Kelson, daughter of
Mrs. Margaret A. Nelson of 02 bummer
street, Barre, arid Lewis John Dornhoefer
son of Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Dornhoefer of
Brooklyn, N. Y., were united in marriage
at 8:30 o'clock this morning, the cere
mony being performed at St. Monicas
church in the presence of many friends
and relatives. Rev. Fr. P. M.v McKenna,
pastor of the church, was the officiating
clergyman, and the singing was by Mrs,
John Hartigan, while Miss Ruth Nelson,
a cousin of the bride, played the organ
The wedding was very pretty. The
bride was gowned in pussy-willow taf
feta with pearl trimmings and she wore
a hat to match.. She carried a bride's
bouquet of pink roses. She was attend
ed by Miss Bessie Bonett of Barre as
maid of honor, and the latter wore pink
crepe de chine, with picture hat and
carried a bouquet of white rogeB. The
best man Was Frank Nelson of Barre, a
brother of the bride. The church was
beautifully decorated bv the Senior So
dality under the direction of Sister Mar
garet Mary.
following the ceremony at the church
the w-edding partywent to the home of
the bride, where a wedding breakfast
was . served and a reception was held.
The color scheme at the retidence was
pink and white, peonies and roses being
used in the decorations. The gifts, in
cluding much silverware, cut glass, etc.,
were Shown, there being a large number.
Mr. and Mrs. Dornhoefer left on a two
weeks' wedding trip, after which they
will go to Brooklyn to reside, their home
being at 249 Forest avenue. The groom
is employed in that city, being a fore
man for the Victor Machine Co. The
bride has a great many friends in Barre.
For the past 11 years she has been cash
ier in the Barre office of the Vermont
Telephone & Telegraph Co.
Among those from out of town who
attended the wedding were Misses Helen
and Margaret Leonard and Charles Leon
ard of Toledo, O., Miss Loreld-a Tierney
of Springfield. Mass., and Miss Alice
Corbin of Montpelier. No cards.
RADICAL
CHANGES
PROPOSED'
' -
In Barre's Fire Protection irt J
Order to Raise the City;
from Class C to Class B in
the Rating of ew Eng
land Insurar Exchange,
Following Inspection
Last Spit . '
FULL REPORT IS
HEREBY SUBMITTED
Councilors Engaged in An
other Word Combat Over
the Band Last Night
Bids for the Opera House
Lease Run from the Sub
lime to the Ridiculous, or
Vice Versa
DANIELS LAM0NT.
Marriage of Barre People Took Place at
Episcopal Rectory.
Miss Mary W. Lamont, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. William D, Murray of
Pearl street, and William -A. Daniels of
North Main street were married at the
Episcopal rectory on Tremont street
Tuesday evening at 8 o'clock, Rev. W. J.
M. Bcattie performing the ceremony. The
couple were attended by Miss Bella Dan
iels and James Daniels, sister and broth
er of the groom. Mr. and Mrs. Daniels
left the city after the ceremony on a
wedding trip bv motor. I pon their re
turn to Barre they will make their home
on Maple avenue.
Both the bride and groom are very
well known in Barre. Five1 years ago
Mrs. Daniels completed a course in the
training school for nurses at the Barre
City hospital. Mr. Daniels is employed
in Jack's lunch on Depot squaie.
SCHEDULE WAS DRAWN UP.
And Officers Elected for Vermont State
Baseball League.
Directors of the Vermont State Base
ball league, the" recently oi-ganized cir
cuit which will furnish sport to the fans
of four cities from the Fourth of July
until September lfi, met last evening in
the Montpelier city court room and, with
he managers of the several teams pres
nt. a tentative schedule of games was
drawn up. Numerous changes will prob-
bly have to be made to give each town
bout the same number of games, but
Rutland will have the most, taking ad-
antage of Sunday baseball. Director K. j
Perkins of Burlington was elected
president of the league and the other
fficers chosen were: vice president. W
F. Byrne of Rutland; secretary, -C. Del-".
Bancroft, jr., Montpelier; treasurer, .
Broggi of Barre. Others present were
Manager P. F. C'orley of Burlington,
Manager John F. Dobbs of Montpelier.
Manager Harry Shedd of Rutland aud
Manager Angelo Rottigi of Barre.
The league will be opened July 4 with
Montpelier playing at Barre and Rutland
Burlington, ihe following Saturday
Montpelier will play at Burlington and
Barre at Rutland, both teams in Wash-
ngton county playing away from home
because of the circus in Montpelier. The
season will close epiemoer in unle-s
change is made or postponed games
terfere and each team will have played
i contests.
St. Johnsburv and the Barre A. C,
requested the directors to consider ap
plications for admittance, but the lor-
mor una (.1 i minfl toil ftecnuse of flu lonrr
1 iiimn frnm Rutland to the PnliMonia
county town and to accept the B. A. C,
would mean only five teams and would
mean that Barre would be doubly rep
resented in the circuit. Next year, if suc
cess crowns the attempt to play this
year, probably the league will be en-
Temperate discussion of two measures
of major importance at the regular meet
ing of the board of aldermen last even
ing culminated in another verbal clash
over the band concert business and 'ere
the battle-axe statesmen were clean fore
spent the war of words had been contin- ,
ucd in an executive session. Bids rahg
ing from $600 to $5,000 per year for'tha
opera house lease were received and a
lengthy report from the New England
Insurance Exchange relative to the ex
tension of fire protection facilities in
Barre was read and accepted.
Radical improvements for the fire and ,
water departments and auxiliaries ara
recommended in the report which En
gineer John S. Caldwell submits to May
or Robert Gordon as the result of his in
vestigation in Barre last April. Exten
sions advocated by the engineer have for
their prime object the elevation of Barre .
from class C to class B in the rating
schedule in order that property owners
may have the advantage of lower insur
ance rales.
Among the phases touched upon in the.
engineer's report are: Water supply,
mains, gate valves and hydrants; fire
department, paid men, eompanies and ap
paratus, fire alarm system, headquarters,
outside wires, efficient wiring, telephone
system, 'fire department auxiliaries and:
electrical appliances.
The report follows:
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVED
GRADING.
event that war should be declared thi i1"1"1 iml,"ip ix "n'i rhsps eight
week, it is not improbable that the ses
sion would le called next week. Gov.
Gates was a brief visitor in Montpelier
yesterday afternoon.
WAITED HOURS AT BRATTLEB0R0.
tea ms.
Directors and managers are as one in
working for the success of the league
above the Individual team and the fans
can le promised that while fast baMde:l
will be played, fabulous sums will not
be expended bv anv of the clubs tor
Crowd of 4.C00 People Out with Refresh- "'S ias r'."" "i rcpei.i.on
menta for Co. I Boys. wilI spieled some-
Brattleboro. June 2. A crowd of 4.0H !;,. this wrek and w ill be published as
people waited hours until the first troonl.oon as possible. Montpelier and Barre
section of the four trains bearing the lt lr,,,- an exhibition game Saturdar of this
National Guard ; meek at Intercitv park.
his new duties in addition to being valua-jed from the smouldering of shavings. a
The girU" rooking c'a will meet
Thursday afternoon at 2:30 at the Con
pTejrtinal church.
Miss Grace Brown left the city this
iso,,ii for WhitefiM. V. H. where Ke
be emp!'ve-! t j
S'jn;tiKT at the enue.
the shaving hou&e is un irr strict surveil
lance. This storm will do much damage to
the farmer as many pieces of land
that hitherto bare been too wet for
ewing or planting were about ready for
seed, and in all probability cannot be
worked for a week, even if gird wrs:hrr
NORWICH THE WINNER.
Rifle
Captured Intercollegiate Outdoor
Tournaient.
D. C. i'une 2. Norwich
s announced srin
e asneition in-
Vermont regiment of th
pulled into the station at lrt;20 last nicbt
between scores of national flags flying
from the train shed. The members of
Company I of Brattleboro. Si strong,
were permitted ten minute on the plat
form to bid their last good-byes, and hy
sterical scene were many, but the bovs
were dry-eyed and fheerful a the frV.n
(pulled out. Two express truck loads of
'good things to eat aoi smoke and drink
I were loaded on the barrage ear. the tifts
(of frienis and shopmates. Everr soldier
Washington
university last nl;rht
ner of the National
terc-oj!. xiste outd"-i
which 1 7 ifltere.
pffed. The Norw
FUNERAL AT EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
That of William J. Maraeil Was Held
Yesterday Afternoon.
The funeral of William J. Macneil of
Maple I, rote. whoe death Saturday fol
lowed a bnet illness, was heH in the
t hurcli of the Good Shepherd Tuesday
afternoon at 2 o'clock, the rector. Rev.
W. J. M. Besttie. officiating. The bear
ers were: Artnur vv . .Macnen. .Austin
stle tournament, in
i nnivritie ctrn-
vre wsi ?tl.
"V, TV " ' D,,,M, r"! Macneil of Svrac. N. .. and Llovd
pa, kuif of good things bandi to bim by !,, Mgrnl. Fnn of the deceased. Arthur
some relative. y f.,.. , in law. Frit. Ia.kn
and Ter!ev M. t rr.
Water Supply.
Mains.
(1) That the distribution sj-jtem b ttreneth
ened by the installation of audi mains as am
necessary to furnish a nre supply as follows:
la I Tn the principal mercantile district
S.250 gallons a minute.
ibi In closely built residential districts 1,00ft
to 2.000 ire liens a minute.
Icl In outlyinit residential districts 500 to
l.ftoo R-aUon& a minute.
The above quantities to be in excess of do
mestic consumption and to be available in th
hifrh value districts about any larg-e building or
proup of buildinss of special hazard, and in
the mercantile and residential district about
any block.
Where direct hydrant streams are to be Used, ,
the above quantities are to be available at a
recidua! pressure of at kast 75 pounds in the
hiirh value district ; in closely built residential
districts SO pounds: and 60 pounds in thinly
built sections of low height. Where cnirine
streams are to be used, the above quantities ar
to be available at a residual pressure of 20
pounds.
(2 1 That the following be adopted as tao
standard minimum sues of mains used for hy
drant supply for all future construction.
lai In residential districts 8-inch: 6-inch to
be used only where they complete a good grid
iron and in no case in blocks 6K feet or mora
in length.
(bi In mercantile and manufacturing dis
tricts. 8-inch and 12-inch, tbe former to ba
used only in sections whtre they complete a
good gridiron and the latter for long line not
cross-connected.
(81 That a well-defined plan be adopted
whereby ait 4-inch mains used for hydrant sup
ply will be replaced within a reasonable period,
dead ends eliminated wherever practicable,
large mains cross-connected to distributors at
frequent intervals and lone stretches of pipe
cross-connected so that generally not more than
one hydrant will be on a S-inch main between
intersecting Iims and not more than two hy
drants on an S-inch in closely built and con.
gested districts.
Note. The exchange believes that it Is es
sentially the business of each municipality to
lay out its system of distribution mains as it is
best able to judse of present and future con
sumption in each district and of other local
conditions involving paving, topography, press
ures, siie and type of hydrants, etc., but prac
tical experience has shown that the abova
quantities are required for good fire protection
In di'trirts such as are found in this city and
that the gridiron system of mrins of the sfrea
recommended above is satisfactory only when
cross-connected at all intersections, free from
dead ends and with large secondary cross-feed--er
mains at frequent intervals.
Gate Valves.
14) That the distribution system be equipped
with a sufficient number of gate valves se r
rated that no single case of accident, breakage)
or repair to the pipe system in the high valua
districts will necessitate shutting off from
service a length of pipe greater than 610 feet,
or greater than SfM feet in other sections, and
mill not result in the shutting down of an
artery.
Hydrants.
S That additional hvdranta be installed in
accordance with the following:
lal In the mercantile and manufacturing dis
tricts the aveiaee linear spacing not to exceed
200 feet and the average area served per hy
drant not to exceed ftS.ana square feet if engin
streams are used and ".fHW square feet for di
rect hydrant streams
ibi In closely built residential dvtrirts thai
average linear spacing not to exceed S.S feet
and the average area served per hydrant not
to exceed 1IS."0 square feet if engine streams
are used and w.(W)i square feet for direct hy
drant streams.
(Si Thut the following be adopted as tb
standard for ail new hydrant instaJlatmna :
a Hydrants shall be able U deliver S'l
ralions per minute, with a loss of nc morw
than 2'i pounds in the hydrant and a total ios
of not more thsn S pounds between the street
main and tbe out jet.
isi Hvd'-ants to have net less than ts ?t?.
inch outlet and aieo an engine connection
where engine service is nerensarv.
c Street connections and hvd-ar.t narra
to be nw less than sit inches in cits meter and
connertwm to atrejet main to be gated.
Fire Department.
Taid Men.
w wasuut at wrrbary. '!r.. A V. An .' two e!eetion.
Waterbury, June A larjt rod, lot-rment was made m H-pe t-ttneterj.
4
I. 4, I ' i yj'" itiii iiai' aiu men uh i ari4aag jjm
hiring the se ry,oes : . that toe least number pres-nt at
(Continued on fourth pg4 J
