15
VOLUME XXXI. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28, 1916.
AMERICAN SOLDII
WITH
Trapped by Mexicans and
Slaughtered
FEW MEN LEFT
TO TELL TALE
Tenth' Calvary Troops, Composed of
Negroes, Thought to Have been En
gaged. Size of Mexican Force Under
Gen. Gomez Unknown. Great Brav
ery Shown.
El Paso, Texas, June 21.-A nierieann
and ('arranza troops fought ai san
;ulnary battle today on the 'Santo Duo
inihigo ranch, near the 'town of V'ar
rizal, and tonight, it hald not been
[earned with whil side rested the
rietory.
'T'he numb11ier of dend, Amerienin or
ilexiean, was not definitely known
aIere but. nearly a score of (Wu.
P'ershiung's mea are said to have been
kllied and the 31extenns are said to
mvo lost mtore than 1t. S'enteen
Aimereans are declared by 3Iexlean
)flieints to have been capt rued nnd to
lare been hurried to ('hihuahna Pity'
inder adequate guard. A machine gun
used by the Mexicans is reported to
nave done heavy execution.
The scene of the light was Just nine
miles south west of Villa Ahunada,,
he Mexlean leid henduuarters in
northern (iiliuahun, and the clash
icuirred only a few hours after Pres
dent. Wilson's 6,009 word note warn
lng Carranza that the "gravest con
eqiuebees" would follow an attack
upon Amerienna troops had gone for
nvard..
TENTH (CAVAIitY ENGAGED,
The Amierelais engaged are thought
o have been members of a troop from
-he 'Tent cvalry, at negro regiment,
'eturning from at scoutilug trip to (Guz
an. The size of the Mexienn force,
Whose comannder. (en. Felix Goiez,
was ililed, Is not. known.
..... Great. Bravery Shown.
San Antonio. Tex., .une 21.---"Great
courage and thorough fighting qauali
les" is the proud characterization
len. Pershing gives the heroes of Ilie
:arrizal fight in a message he sent. to
len. Funston tonight.
A new chapter is added to the nar
alive of Oe encounter with the men
f Gonezs army by this last. message,
ased on a report. sent by Major John
I;. .1eal ns, In command of the squad
ron of the lKleventh cavalry first sent
o the relief of the survivors of the
fiht..
Jenkins' courier reached Colonia
Dublan late this afternoon, and
arought the word from the major that
to had come up on five soldiers of
!'roon C and one of Troop K, who had
scopel from the bloody field and
na-le their way to the San Ltuis ranch,
wcre Jenkins found them. The ima
or wrote t he report of the fight and
4thtrted the cou rier' back with it and
iroceededl on hIs way towvardls Carri
.a1.. :Alaor Riobert L,. H owze is a day's
march bchind him, proceedIng also to,
Darrizal witha his sqadron as a sup
porting force, and Gena. Pershing hats
sent after themu another detachmecnt
with supies~C.
Unaenashness Dlipelled.
The 'arrival or tihe courier' dispelled
'at 11i(1ldeadquarters, andl herealso, all
lineatsiness concerning the two squad
rons of the relief expeditIon.
Mlajor Jenkins obtained these now
[eatuaresa of the despierate andl hope
los fight of less thaan 60 troopers
against thiousanids of the Mlexienn
anomy.
Immnediatoly tupon the retuarn of
Gomez to his own line andl the tieach
Brous op~ening of the machine guin
lIre, without the Amerieans having
made any adlvance movement, Capt.
Boyd gave the order to dismouant and
fore a line of skirmishers. The horse
holders rbdo rapidlly to the roar, each
with his four horses. Hence of the
84 men and officers of the two -troops,
less than 60 faced the over-whelming
numbers of the enemy.
Omelers Led Men.
Capt. Dloyd took his position at the
left of the line and Capt. Morey stood
at the other end of the line. ted by
these two captains and Lieut. Henry
Adair, the troopers advanced by
rushes towards an irrigating dlitch
which tihe Mexl~an infantry had 00
ouiind From- this i~rench etnma the
RS FOUGHT
GREAT BRAVERY
GIVES CARRANZA
COUPLE OF DAYS
If No illetilte leply is Received by
'iihursday Mter ano.on United Sates
WSill! 31ake 31o ve.
Washington, June 27.-There were
clear indications today that if Ameri
can cavalrymen captured by Mexican
troops at Carrizal were not released
within 48 hours action would be taken
by the l'nited States.
The impression prevailed in. offleiial
circles that President Wilson wouIldn't
wait. beyond Thursday at latest and
possibly not beyond tomorrow after
noon for a definite reply from the car
ranza government to the note demand
ing the immediate release of prison
ers and a declaraton of intention.
Special Agent Rodgers, at .Mexivo
City, reported that he had delivered
the note to the .\texican foreign otlice
yesterday morning. lie didn't. Indi
cate how It had been reccived or when
a reply might be expected.
While the diplomatic aspect of the
crisis awaited Carranza's action the
war department drove forward efforts
to hasten the mobilization of the mili
IIa on the border.
It is certain no agressive military
operations can be undertaken Until a
substantial number of state troops are
available to back up l'unston's regu
lars, who unqiuestionably would lead
any movement.
President Wilson's first step should
lie decide to force the issue wouli
probably be to lay the whole situation
before a joint, session of congress. It is
believed he Iuformed members of for
eign relations committees of this at
the Sunday confer'ehee;
blasting machine gun fire and an in
effective rifle fire.
As the troopers advanced by rushes,
at the end of each throwing them
selves prone and firing with deadtly
effect at any enemy who showed liim, -
self, there was usddenly launched
from the flank a wild mounter charge
of an enemy far outnumbering the
trapped Americans. The skirmishers
wheeled by squads and met. this
charge with a rifle fire that stopped it
and turned it back in confusion. Then
the rushes were resumed.
1Boyd Falls.
Two hundred and fifty yards was
the distance to the ditch from the first
position of the line of skirmishers.
Capt. Lloyd was wounded twice, once I.e
the arm and once in the shoulder, and
as his brave men, himself abreast,
leaped into the (11101 triumphantly he
fell from a tIhirdi, a mortal wound.
'T'he Mexicans were driven from the
ditch and several machine guns were
captured. Troop C continued on
through the little town of Carrizal
pursuing the enemy and led by Lieut.
Adair.
rooip K, captained b~y Morey, wa",
flanked at. the ditch by the reformed
Mexican cavalry, and forced to retire
to an adlobe house. Capt. Morey was
wvouindedi in the shoulder, aiid part of
his mner were cut off.
Only a FewY Reach Shelter.
'l he survivors found by Jienkinis
11h11k t hat not more than ten or tw~elve
renehed the shielter' of the house withI
M~or'ey. Thue abode was at once sur
rmmudedi by the Mexicans andl firing
b'canu:e conti11nuous, thle beleaguered
troopers holding oft the enemy with
consummate bravery.
Theo survivors at S'an L~uts ranch
are men who wvere swept back by the
onrushing tide of Mexicans, and to
escape ca,,ture or certain de'ath man
aged to catch stampeded horses and
get away. Their storceu end with
Morcy's brave band fighting for their
lives and Adair leadling his troopers
in that reckless, hopeless charge
afoot through the town and into thie
enemy's ranks.
TIhese six survivors found by Major
Jenkins brings the total of suirvivors
now known to have escaped capture
to 33.-37 of wvhiomi are baek wIth the
main column.
Mrs. Mathterinie (Campbell Knight D~ead.
Mrs. KatherIne Campbell Knight,
wife of Mr. William Knight, dlegl at
her home Saturday and was buried at
flabun the following day. Mr. J. H.
Wolff conducted the exercises. Thle
deceased was about sixty-five years
old and is survived by one son, Mr'.
Dunk Knisrht and her husbann.
\A)I A N'I' 1 ER W~ \AN'I'ED1 FOR)1 ENLI S'i'\IIAT1 IN
TOi& ;1( (II 1.1 a g )111 01 thl ri oty l (wii 11 t irc , of I:Ir gl
Cony :) ix 3 .Rgiiit
1 'Ie1ltaioe, 't'f li "ll h oullt d lill lieli et'oe iliiieati
UIl dV P iiIlx ti~I)11 . OP i i l~ou , I iit 1t' i taked ili
I. I ive a vo lleli I Jillye toii ll)Jie i tV Iois a n esar ( iat
t"PI lV iv el in t is 1.1011I M M..i ori( e t lic;e etlh"ilii lll
J1 () IN O\V!
BL[A8[ AND COOPER
FAVORIT[S SATRDAY
Words Pass Between Man
ning and Blease
MUCH EXCITEMENT
AT ONE TIME
Clot. 3ianningi amd Ex-G;ov. lIlen e
P'rinclpnlis In a LiIle Tilt over the
ltiterd of (ovi. 311anin :. in teard to
ithe Alointmient a 3In1atstrale.
( New. and Con ier.)
.\ndertn11, .une 2l.--V en Governor
Mlanning .lumnped to his feet today while
I'l m er Governor Ilease was spieaking,
jutst as the latter had said that he had
i'ro I.wed to be partial to his triends
ill aoi'j(ntinets, and had (lone so,
while Govternor Mlanning had promised
to be govetrnor of all the people, and
had not kept his promise, such 1 a din
bike out from1 several thousand
throats, and what. was passed wvas not
aiutdible al. tle' ipress talte. Governor
.\; .7ing i'cod facing former Covernor
Ii10a: (, . l iculating; and t alk ing ra pid
l, %\ :ib i e oie: out in front and
111:id(1 ile J:.nd were yelling and
Shot ling f! I'als. The county chair
11a1 W1I, n hi' feet protptly and
e1:i!t' .C\c ra! at: l to quiet the
t'i "" '. r ~ tt ( Ill I' W.5' 11
t.) lm ' ndt i e .1 d~l ri: ' water and
t1ot ion Il frienti:s to be seated. The
govern1or returned to his selt, the !tan
detunit iun eensed and .Mr. Illease in
iehed his spech.
I' w\a decidedlV a Illhase crowvd,
w ith 1oopI a strong second favorite.
Thie ..aurens Juan began his speech un
der di llicuIties, for ahmut one-third of
I'l -tdi e nce began to leave a:" soon as
Mtr. I'l ase P nished. however, Solicitor
(ooe-, maItt' his, vcice heard in all
part. o:' tile grove, and soon lie had
h.is aulie'ite following him closely. In
hits alt'oed I to do away wit i factional
ist lie lluet wvllhh alllailse..atndt when
h(' finished his speech he was gener
ousl:ty and generally cheered.
Patr tiotle Spirit.
The metitig wa\;s held in t11tena
\'idta Paltk, three thousand p)eo)le hie
ing presentt. C. :. !'olly, coutly chair
man, !)resided. The patriotic spirit of
Anlerson, was;1 strongly in evidence to
ta. 'le stand from which the speak
0rs addressed the people was (eco
rated, the red, white and blue inter
twined wIiti Old G;lory. .\ note of fer
vent loyalty ran t hrouigh the prayer of
the liev. W. II. Frazier, the audience
';anding with howedl heads while the
Divine ;lessing was being invoked.
.ohn E. Swearingen, unopposed for
re-election as State SuiterintendenI of
Educntion, started the speaking.
W. T. Thrower, .lames ('ansler. .\I
hert S. Fant, W. 1H. Kelly and U. Mc
)unlhie Ilamiptonl 'resented their claims
for railroad commissioner.
It was shortly after 12 o'clock when
the didat ( i " es for' Gover inor bega n to
speakit. Governor tichtardl I. Mlanning
leading off.
The GIovernior bega n by referrintg to
the imminnenc(e of wat with .\exiico) andi
said the knew Soulth Carol ina wouldI
do her Part, as shte had in the Past.
Het congtraltula ted A nderson on leadingi
lie eot iies (of thle State in tres pondintg
to thle call for Itroops, more1 than three
hundred1 menl110 from A nderson hav ig
lobilized for thle fronit.
Lawi Fnfioremntiit Policy3.
Theli Gove rnor told1( of hiis la w-en -
fotrcemetnt polley. lI reviewved tegisla
ion Itassedt during Ils admttiisttat ion
tavotabile to fatrmers and eott on il
etmployees and~ mleti onitng thle board of
conci11liation1, reenlled that douring the
strike at the lIrogan M\ill last tall the
otpera tives aisked lim to a rbiItrate,
wlhich he wais w'iling to (10 if both
sIdes consente I d, hut. thle ilI owners,
he said, refused, sayinlg thecy had noth
tng 1(o aiittrale. 11le referredt to his
refusal to order1( tou(1t tie m)1illtia d1ur1
in~g the strike. The governor revIewed
he reorganizat ion and remodelling of
the State Hospital for the Insanc. Thle
G'over'nor was asked about appitiil ng
necgtoes as nioties publie. lie replied
that thete are none in ofilce now; that
he namlfedt notaries ipublic in South Car
olina on reOcomnmendation of the legis
lators andt somec negroes got In, but he
f oun~d they were not conducting them
selves well and lie has revoked all of
their commIssIons and refused to comn
mition any m)ore. The governor was
presented with a basket of flowers.
Itlease Spoke.
Fortmer Governor CNtn L. mlasen sai
Duncan Expected to Lead
for Governor
CHAIRMAN BABB
WILL PRESIDE
it. is Th'lo nghift. tfhnt, the Candidites for
M3inor (h'tices %i5Ill Spekii First, Fol.
to et'd Iliy the ('andial:ties for (a,.
e'nor. n)iicran iI'st Speaker.
The c(ali'hiates oI' stat, ouf
ex peeled to be ii Lat'eis Friday for
heir reguila ' 'Ogagemnt(1 for this
county. Although the program of the
day has not lein (eliniitely deCiled
tIp)ol, it is tholight that, the candidates
for in in or offices will speac first and
the candidates for governor last. l11
all probability .Johi ''. l)tncan will
be the first. speak.er, followed con
;(c liIIely by Rtic hard 1. \I ni.
t(olena n L. lilease, R. A. ('ooper and
.l. .\l. !t)eschainips. As, the' last Rnmed
candidate inakes a very entertaining
speeeh, it is thoug:' that Ihe crowd
will hold together until the very last.
The speaking, as usual, will be held
at Ilolinit S priig. II. 1. jiali, s
't(11y chi t'rma n, will preside. ''h~
speaking will start at 10 o'clock a.
111. Since it. is not. definitely declied
which of the candidates will speak
lrst, attendants on the meeting
shotild be lrescilt at. Ille openIig hour.
when the eanilpaign began there were
iegros holding oiliee and by Iiis cal
ipaign lie had drummed them out and
(congraIoat ed the present governor "on
at last recognizing that negroes are not
as good as white mlen." A\lr. Ulease
romped Ol the ncw ollices wilih hayt
been ereated during Ili present adilin
istration, dl'nouning am1ong others tlie
board of conciliation, ihe tax ('01111 is
sion and others. lie sai it (overnor
\lahining in't-ii sent. "Smoke" Thomip
Soil to Ainde'son !ast fall there wotlhl
have been i no tloubi' a; Jirogan A lill.
that the sheriff had the Siutalion in
hand and everytlhing was get ing along
all right. until "Smoke"' T[honitisoj
'amit' lt. Ile assailed the last. legis
latuirc and said "Ii your le;islatlures
are no betler than the last one was,
you would he bette' off without any."
lIe cihart'gied the governor Wit Ii turniig
all the ltlenseites out of otllce and said
sarcastically "and yet, he says le is
governor of all the people."
In coipartinig his adinloistration with
(hat of (;overnol' \lanning, .\lr. llease
Said "The (ifferenev bet weeni .r. Mdan
ning's administration and mine is that
I said I would not appoint anybody
blt illeaseites, and did it, and .\1r. .\lan
ing said lie woo ll not regard factions,
and did not keep his lroilse."
, e.Illng and Cheering.
Tlhe crowd was yelling and cheering
Mr. ltlease when he made this state
luent and Giovernori .'\alannig aros
ti'oini where lie was seated o(n1 the sta1111
and walked upi to the speaker, but.
what passed bet w'en I hem was not
auldilde to the jir'ss stand, because of
ile uproar among the crowd. Chir
iii'.n Tol1ey was on his feet quieting
ie ri'o wd, and inally succeeded. Th
governor returned0( to hiIs seat, Itlease
smii 'ad. took a siji of w.ater and~ Ion
100(1e hIs slieechi, ini which lie scored
the \lanninig adiiniiist ration. T'he forin
('r gov.ernor~i id( lie w.~as goIng to lbe
elected oin the first ballot. lHe w~aus
liresenited w~l i two haskets of tlower's
ando r'eceived mnaiiy cers.
I', tnough of~ Factional11Iim. .
\\c have had enough of factional
Isni in S'outhi Carollina. Hlave you1
toiight of it.?'" 1. A. Cooper askedl the
o tildetie oif And~er'so n voters todlaY
ami( I Icy ani,.vwerediW wih Cheers. Is
statement seemed to meet w.ith thle
henarty . ii'oal~ o f his auldiene.x Mi'r
( enorl M. ed th'at the ne i ighbiOtoro
scolIc '.1il1t i: p andI str'essedl law~
enforceent.
p( ekert otr the Oilice of (;overnor, de
1' i'd ('ne r'f lie mlost 11nusuialI ad
ohssser i n(5slc a'~ li pol)itlcal camnpa ignt
in tils State ill some1 timie. lie deg,_
cod fr'om hiis 1bu1sitness add(1ress to de
niounc in 1no 11 n certain teirmis 111e fae
tional ism whih h le hadI per'eived.
'My ftriendls," said h le, 'we have bceen
told1 that factionalism) ini South Car'o
lina was dlead; niot only (dead, but
buied. if therte 1)e ii man1 hiere who
has believed that, nevei' again shouild
lie dloubt thec doctin~e of the Rlesurt
ct ion. Todlay yotu have shown that
110 loniger have we demnocracey in this
state. The indIelpendents, the men wIthI
thle balance of powet'. are m'te nlet who
flow ('aln rule. They' are a minorIty'
we are a mi~inority. Mor'e than one0 hiun'.
dried years ago factIonalsm started In
SotIh Car'olina ; since ltat ine three
fatitons have heen) addedl, One suicceedl
Ing the other'. Man fles at the throat
of man.
Makes Prediction.
"I take an oath as to thIs. If It
proves false yoti may hang me in
ofllgy, you may send me back to my
home Inl shiami. EIther I shall b)e the
next (Governor, or' wIth the independ..
(Continued 01) Page our.)
SOLDIERS GRVEN
Vast Gathering of Friends,
Thursda)
Thursday evening before the do
In"rture of the Traynhain Guards for
the Mobiliization ("am11l) at Columbia, a
vast. through of men, women and chil
dren gathered in front of the court.
house to bid the soldiers farewell and
(udspee.d. Not in many a long day
l-,; rich a large crowd gathered for
any purpose at night in this city, the
evident desire being to express thor
ough appreciation of the courage and
sacrillees the men are showing in go
ing to the front. Although an air of
lightheartedness and good cheer pre
tailed, there was a st rain of serious
ness ru inning i through the exercises
that. len1t it inpressiveness and solelm
nity. It. E0. Hlabb. 1sq., presided over
the exercises, which had been ar
ranged largely by the ladles of the
l'nlied Daughters of the Confederacy
and the Daughters of the American
itevolution.
At seven o'clock the ladies served
a substantial and refreshing supper,
before which Rev. J. R. T. Mlajor made
a short. prayer. While the boys were
giving dlue alittention to this part of
he program the crowd was gathering
for the celebration which was'to fol
low.
When the suppe)r was finished Mr.
IBabb Introduced Col. II. Y. Simpson,
commander of the Sons of Veterans
who made an eloquent address in
w hich h1e held up for emulation the
example of Palmetto soldiers in the
Revolution, the .Mexican war of I itn
and the Confederate war of the Six
ties, in which the ancestors of the
members of this company made en
viable records for gallantry and cour
age. Col. Simpson assured the men
of the deep sense of appreciation with
which the people of the county and
country saw them( depart for the front,
at the same time adjuring them to
maintain the ideals of South Carolina
soldiers and to show their loyally to
their country by their conduct in bat
tIe. In closing his address he asked
them to live clean lives and to fight
against the temptations of army life,
so that they could return to their
homes and their faInilies with records
unblemished by any stain upon their
life or character.
Col. Sinpson was followed by lion.
'C. A. Power, who made a stirring ap
peal to the young soldiers to fight for
their country as the Confederate sol
diers fought for the Stars and Bars
from '61 to '65. "Love of honor, love
Itecital Friday Evening.
Many music lovers of the city en
joyed a p)Jendid musicale by Miss
Clara Cox being assisted by Mrs.
Lucas, who is a musician of note.
Piano solos by Miss Cox and duets
by Miss Cox and Mrs. Lucas, selections
being taken from the compositions of
the master composers, combined to
make an evening of rare charm. Miss
'Cbx, though quite youthful, displayed
admirable technIque and gave indica
tions of talent out of the ordinary. Af
ter the musIcal selections delicious
refreshments were served.
BIG SEND-OFF
Relatives and Well-Wishers
Evening
of home and the love of country arie
the throe dominating elolions in the,
breast of mn" said Mir. IPower and
"the last of these is the strongest.
He praised the spirit with which the
soldiers enlisted and encouraged them
to stand it) like patrio' 'or the pro
tection of the honor a integrity of
their country.
Following the address of Mr. 'ow
er, miss Julia Ir by, on the part of
the )aughters of the Rlevolution, and
Ars. .1. S. Hlen net t, on the part of the
Daughters of the Confederacy, spoke
a few words of good cheer and en
cou ragemenI. to the departing comii
pany. After they had spoken, Capt.
W. I it lichey, .Jr., formerly commanld
er of the colpaniy, replied to the ad
dresses in behalf of Capt. I.ee, his of
ticers and nen. Capt. 11lehey made
an eloqtuent speech in which he as
sured the assembled people of the
Colpllany's appreciation and of their
(Qeerminat(in to uphold the honor and
tradi'o1s5 of the county.
A; a1 ot i of aftermiath to the pro
gra in Re. .1. It. 'I'. major presented to
the coiipa ny a handsome vietrola as
a gift rn the citizens of the town.
Iiev. ,i.\ o' told siveral witty ance
itl'e(! which pst the company and au
ditor: in a happy mood for the ('losing.
Following his short talk, the company
gale a rousing chee' as its expjires
sion of thanks and appreciation.
Friday morning again a large crowd
assemtiled at the railroad station to
1)1(1 the boys good-bye. There were
many af feeting scenes as the young
soldir(1 parted from their loved ones,
but they went away will) that. daunt
less and cheerful expression charac
teristie of this state's soldiers. The
crowd that waited behind Was far
more affecled by the seriousness of
the case than tihe men themselves. for
If there were any evidences of relec
taice to go none ('tl e to tle surface.
surface.
IReports from Ile camp are that the
Laiurens company is getting into sha1pe
and all of the members are well. It Is
not. known when they will depart for
the front, hut It, will hardly be for a
week or ten days yet. The company is
in serious need of more men if it Is to
keep its Identity and not be merged
with another company to bring It up to
war strength. About fifteen men have
Ibien recruited since the company's
departure, but about 75 more are
needed.
Miss ,Strdlivan Enttertains,.
Miss Josle Sullivan entertained last
Thiursday afternoon at her home on
West Main street in honor of Mrs. II.
V. Irby, a recent bride, and .Miss
P'auline \Vhitley, her guest. She was
assisted by Mrs. Jas. F'. Hlarney an'd
Misses Sadie Sillivan and 1)onIe
Qounts. After a number of games of
F~or'ty Two and Bridge were played, a
delicious Iee course was ser'ved.
Mtr. R. S. Owens, Est., of the Abe
ville bar, was here on business~ for a
1while Monday.
