,-'v
r '
MAILS
From tan Francis f
-Gr'Jl Northern, Mch. 13
For San Frsnclsco:
. Trtyo Maru. 51 cb. 14
From Vancouver: '
Niagara, March 22. -For
Vancouver:
Makura. March 21,
. . 7 o -
IIS
Evening Bulletin, Eat 1882, No. 6418
Hawaiian Star, Vol. XXIII. No. 741,9
12 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF; HAWAII, THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1916.-12 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTO
ft
oex
hold to. mmm bomber
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS 01 SUGAR
RESULTS IN FIGHT AGAINST PLAN
Keating of Colorado Denounces Repeal as Repudiation of
' Party Doctrine, But Vote is 84 to 20 for Administration
Measure : :-'' -Vy ;..,:';. . -
That the Democratic caucus ipn the
repeal of the "freeugar clause In
the present tariff law resulted1 In a
lively light la told In Washington cor
respondence, .The Star-Bulletin's
; "Washington correspondent writes un
der date of February 24: ,
r The repeal of the free sugar clause
in the Underwood -Simmons tariff act
became positively assured when the
house Democrats in caucus determin
ed to make this feature a party mea
sure. Some opposition developed to
the proposition, but only to the extent
that 10 Democrats refused to abide
by the conclusions of their colleagues.
This number was much less than had
been anticipated by the leaders. 1
"Almost any degree of antagonism
among the dissatisfied Democrats will
be offset by the solid Republican sup
port of the repeal bilL It comes ex-
actly In line ' with - the good old doc
trine of protection end the , Republi
cans will jump at the chance to get
any legislation In that direction- In
stead of fighting the repeal the. Re
' publicans, assisted by many Demo
crats, will Insist on going farther and
restoring the , rayne-Aldrich law du
. ties. This movement is notexpected
to prevail but indicates tie. certainty
of stopplxs the free l)si crorUian., ; .
,The Democratic : caucus 'approved
the to repeal the free sugar
clause by a vcte -of Si to 20C . This
, was accomplished , after ' v spirited
fight against the' plan. This was led
by Representative Keating of Colo
rado, who denounced the action as a
repudiation of party doctrine. - Ten
Democrats declined, because of oth
; cr pletjges or conviction, to be bound
by the caucus .decision. H -
, "Denlocratlc leaders are, preparing
to carry out the caucus action through
a bill prepared - by Majority Leader
Kltchln. which will be one way of J
. meeting 'te expense of national de-
Gen
Villa, Bandit
Border Mar Where
fense. Other ways suggested are
through the Income tax and an excise
tax on special articles and war muni
tions: ! i - ' . .' -' ' 1 - ':
"While the caucus was In progress
Representative Keating, one of the
ten Democrats who refused to stand
by . the caucus action held - up the
Deraijcratlc campaign book to his fel
low Democrats, declaring that the re
peal of the sugar clause would be a
repeal of all the principles the party
had fought for. -v --Vv
' "The campaign book crowed more
over the free sugar victory than over,
anything else," said Mr. Keating,
; "Isn't it a fact that the book devotes
more pages to crowing: over freeing-)
ar than over any other single sub-i
Ject?- asked Representative Calloway
of - Texas, another of the ten- Demo
crats who made pledges to their con
stituents which will , prevent them
from voting with. Representative Kit
chin. Mr. Keating; replied In the af
firmative; ' ' '
"Many of the Democrats fired ques
tions at Leader . Kttchin " In : an eni
deayor to find out Just what would be
the ways and means committee ' pro
gram, for the raising of revenue to
meet the defense bills,:: -In-effect; be
aald' jthat .the largest amcmDt .'6uld
be raised by changes In the income
tax and that the' committee Is to con
sider taxes on motion picture films,
kasollne. .automobile . horsepower. au-:.
tomoblle Xires and graphaphone Vec-; I
"The Democrats who gave fortnal
notice that' they, absolved themselves
from ' being 1 bound j by f the caucus
were' Representatives Almon, Ala
tama;' Bailey; Pennsylvania;- Callar
way, Texas; Hillard ' and. Keating
Colorado; Howard, Georgia , Johnson,
Kentucky; .Tavenner, Illinois;. Thomp
son, Oklahoma,' and Van Dyke, Minne
sota." - , .-v. .-. v '
1UMU U'L(-U"eu nn o on nan n'niT
h - - s w - i i a i l i i f i l is i ' i t -
. . - i m II. - 1 III a
' i - ,; . - B ' 1 I J I A SI. Mi 1 1 I I I I I I 11
wMMm IS
, v , ' vr? : .:,Y: : J: -; ;'!: t; ' ' -:
-f . The map below was made when Carrarua and Villa were operating around El Paso. ' Columbus, N. M, Is
4- about 75 miles due west of El Paso, just north of the border and ' in Luna County,! H. M. 1 The figure on 4-
4 rorseback is Gen. Villa. : i V
4 4- 4 4 4 4 44 4- 44 4 44 j, 4 4 44 444.4 4 44 4; 4 f 44
t - r BULLETIN
; . 'Associated Press Service by Federal Wlreless.1
COLUMBUS, New Mexico. March 9. For arshour and
half early this morning the town of Columbus, just north, ol
f the Mexican border, was in the hands of an army of Gen
n.
H i Five hundred Viilistas, heavily armed, rode across ths
I border before dawn, raiding the town and the nearby country)
l ' .1 l?l lIIJ : t. .11 !.
' me Danans Kiuea civilians, dom men ana women, ana
several American soldiers, store, norses of the cavalry troops-
wnicn were quanerea nere, ana sei lire 10 a pan 01 ine lowni
After holding the town for an hour and a half; the Villistai
were expenea ax b oxiock dy tnree troops ot tne I3tn un;t:a
States cavalry. ;
uACTISE
i.
FGuS'IAFTERTO
Preparation for target practise,
: which begins " this year on 1 April ; 1,
when the 2nd Battalion, under the
. command of MaJ. Michael J. Lenlhan,
2nd Infantry, . enters upon the rifle
t range for six weeks work, will be the
main work of companies at Fort Shaf
ter.' 1 '' " - ' ' : ' "
The 2nd Battalion will be followed
the middle or ilay by the '3rd: Bat
: r Ulion. under- MaJ. William Welgel,
2nd Infantry, and. this, group in turn
by the 1st Battalion toward the end of
June, which will take up practise for
, a six weeks' period, under MaJ. Wll
. ' liam R. Dashlell, 2nd Infantry.
While six rei8 Is allowed each bat
talion this year, only half this time
, .it-as allowed on the range in 1915. The
v Vlast several weeks have been devoted
- to gallery practise . and some high
; scores are anticipated In the coming
event The range is now being put in
good shape. Various plans of interest
ing the men are being tried by the
majors, such' aa" posting Individual
scores, having battalion competition
and offering cash prizes for high-class
-work; ' . . ,s ;
FILIPI1 CIGAR vl
TflADE VIl II U. S.
IL'CiiHSES FAST
fBy AiMcUUd Pwtil
MANILA." P. L The cigar trade'be-
' tween the Philippines and the United
States is growing rapidly, A compara
tive statement issued by the collector
' of internal revenue for the periods of
January to' November, 1914 and: 1915,
ehows an increase in exportations to
American consumers of 5,005,499 cl
frars. During these months of 1914
tie total shipments amounted to
'.:;:2,?Z') tz& la 1S15 to 62,980,549. i '
BIG
FREIGHT AT
ISSIIPfllfF
- - 1 V-v I
4lm . ' n
?nv . error TPfTlPS
BROUGHT TO JUAZEZ
. ON THt1XICOWfiTH
4W fc. ' ' -SSWSSSSSSSSSBa i - - - 'Si.'.-
.V
mmm
- TBy AnoclaUd Tnul
VLADIVOSTOK, , Siberia. Conges
tion of war supplies at ; Vladivostok
continues to grow worse. At present
there are 28 steamers In the harbor
or waiting in the bay to enter the har
bor. Pier facilities are lacking; to ac
commodate these steamers. J The
cranes on the piers are not heavy
enough to lift locomotives and other
heavy weights, and consequently light
ers must be utilized for this purpose.
As there are only sufficient lighters
to unload four steamers, the handling
of locomotives is greatly delayed.
Four hundred and fifty American lo
comotives were sold to Russia for use
In speeding up war supplies,' and so
far lens than 50 of these have been un
loaded at Vladivostok. American
manufacturers are also sending 20,000
steel ; cars to Vladivostok. . Heavy
floating cranes were brought from
Japan to handle the war supplies but
it is almost impossible to move these
in the ice, and they are of an old type
not well adapted to the present work.
Because of delay, demurrage
charges are piling; up against the
freight. The snores of the harbor are
blocked with cargo, and it seems Im
possible to get cars to moye this out.
The government says it has 3000 Cars
at Lake Baikal, but these are not com
ing with any regularity to Vladivostok
and the situation seems to grow more
confusing every day. ; v ; 5;
Barbed wire, cotton and rails make
up a great part of the cargo which is
now reaching here. . Various depart
ments which; are handling the cargo,
insist on different sorts of supplies be
ing taken to different piers. The re
sult la that some ships unload less
than 100 tons a day, and In many cases
the demurrage charges against one
ship reach 11,500 a day. ; .
February was the month of largest
Increase . when 9,120,487 cigars ; were
shipped,1 as against. 4,087,703 in 1914.
January and March shewed small ad
vances. July and September Increased
about a million each, August two mil
lion' while October fell off over 3,500,-
v:
-4
5
i -
, - t : .: -v :fi- - ' 1
,V! -r :
Yesterday's despatches reported Villa 15 miles west of Columbus and
27 south of the border, with between 200 and 300 followers. . :
It is evident that this force, almost doubled in size and reaching the
proportions of a Mexican "army made a quick night-ride and dashed across '
the border about 3 or 4 o'clock this morning; ' ; i
Herbert J. Slocum. It Is the station o the machine-gun platoon , aid
troons EL F. G. II. K: L.' and M of this regiment . v " .
It is apparent, however, that only a part of the troops mentioned .weru
actually quartered in the town of Columbus, for tt is the practise on the
border to distribute such a command along the line. From the report that
the Mexicans were finally driven out by three troops of cavalry. It Is in
dicated that the Invaders took advantage of the absence of a large part
vi iuy vvuiiuauu au ayvu to aiiwc7 sikaciafcu aaav. iuci iui O sb UiAAr
fTolnmhn i nn the Southwestern railroad and Is neartr fnur tti!1p 'a
from the Mexican border. Yesterday it was reported that Villa had wit)
the force south of Columbus three Americans, . possibly held prisoner ai
hostages.'' : :.: - ;; , ;-' '' , '.' ': . - H
KILLED IN ACTION.
(A Poem from the Front sent to Hondlulu from "Somewhere in. France.'
y -: ' !.'' TT' 5'-- " " ' '" ;
Where the bones of his comrades whit en, and their stenching bodies lie,
He fell behind the sand-bags down In the trench to die; : . '
Shell-shattered, a worn-out soldier, w ho had waited day by day
His pass from the ancient Captain to the rest camp far away.
With a shriek on his boyish lips, and his rifle In his hands, ,
He goes on the lone night march out to the peaceful lands. ,- ' -
r-:- ' - .1 v-; . . . ; ' . .v--. - . - ; .' .
See how he lies with his face upturn ed to the weeping skies; ;
To the grim unsated gods of war an other sacrifice. . ' : ; ;
His face Is bright with the light of youth; he lies blood-smeared, forlorn.
Like a blossom sweet by the summer gale from the wind-swept hedges torn.
God! can it be that a nation proud can speak of, victory
When they pay the price, the awful price, In the blood of such as he?
lie left his home and the peaceful hearth at the battle call,
Froud in his shining uniform here in the muck to fall! - ; -
And the tears were wet on his sweetheart's cheek as she '.watched him
march awsy; v ' " - ' - -.
And his mother wept, as she prayed for him in the way that mothers pray.
But the sweet-faced girl, and the moth er old, long shall they wait In vain, ,
. For their soldier boy, who went to the war, shall never return again! ' ; : .
"So "we'll bury him, boys, this lonely night in the mocking, sad moonshine,
When the guns cave ceased their day-long dirge of death at the firing One;
Aid we know that the blood of a murdered man shall wall from his gory
. t tomb. : o.v',.-. ...... W- - , ; -.- ;:. v.
Accusingly, to the warring ones, who fooled him to his doom, ; ,
WJth the blood of his countless comrades, cold in the clay who lie; ' '-. "
Arid well wait our turn of the morrow, here in the trench to die! r -.
:i ' PRIVATE R. J. ROBB,
Kfej1 ' ; Canaaian Expeditionary Force.
J
GERMAN OFFICIAL
CABLEGRAMS .
AUSTRIANWOEN NOW
TOILING TEAMSTERS
VIENNA. . Austria. Not a week
passes In Austria - without women ap
pearing In sortie new occupation. Wo
men teamsters, are now to be seen on
the streets, often performing Jaborioua
wort The big dairies are employing
them to-, deliver milk to the 'retail
branches,' and they are; also driving ice
wagons? ' A chocolate factory Is send
ing' out neatly"- uniformed women : wa
gon' drivers. "Business motor wagons
driven
women chauf'
are being
feurs. ,
... In the big petroleum works women
are doing all kinds of work, filling
cans, loading them on the wagons, and
then going with the drivers and deliv
ering the cins at houses, and collect
ing the bills, 1
The British steamer Arracan, loaded
and in the outer St. John, N, B.,
harbor ready to sail was damaged by
fire' of undetermined OriglnJ
" Barcelona Is about to bermade a free
port by the Spanish government. ,
MAKING COLLECTION ,
OF ALL WAR POETRY
KIEL, Germany. The University of
Kiel has begun the collection of all
the poetry of the war which has more
than mediocre merit. Requests have
gone out to all poets of reputation, to
a)l newspapers,, magazines and pub- :
Ushers to forward to the university
anything that- may seem to them ta
be worthy of a place in the collection,
including prose skits, songs with or
without music, novels and dramas.
GERMAN HEADQUARTERS, March
8. A French counter attack against a
position reconquered by us east of
Ma-ison de Champagne was repulsed
today. Only en the western wing are
the hand grenade combats still go
ing on.- ,--v :---V-:'.:
On the left bank of the Meuse the
Germans made an attack to better the.
connection with the new German Hne
on the right bank, which runs on the
southern edge of Cote d'Atalou, Cote
Poihre and ' Douaumont. On both
sides of the Forges brook, downward
to'Bethincourt, along a front of six
kilometers and three kilometers deep,
the Germans stormed French positions.-
;. . ;''; ,V" v
The villages of Forges and Reg ne-
ville, the heights of the forests of Du
corveua and Petite Cum It res are in
German hands. French counter attacks
against the soutn edges of these for
ests were repulsed with bloody losses.
On , a large part of the conquered
positions hundreds perished and .the
Germans captured unwounded 53; offi
cers and 3277 men, taking also 10 can
non and other war material-- '. ;
' On the Woevre plain the enemy
was . driven from the last - houses
which were still occupied in fnwt.
I The number of prisoners at this place
reached 11 officers and 700 soldiers. '
German air squadrons bombarded
villages west of Verdun which art oc
cupied by-French troops. ?
On the east front Russian attacks ,
at several places were repulsed. The
railroad at LyachoviL where lively
traffic waa observed, was successfully
attacked by German aviators. - -
According to a Finnish ; scientist,
tbe air around pine trees tat purer than
that around others because ' . their .
reedles disseminate electricity ".Into
the atmosphere and ozonize it. -'.".
7 ' ' . . . ..t - . ' i .;-'
" Aledbert College of Western Re
serve University .now . offers four
scholarships." each of the annual value
of $125, to tlje graduates of Ohio high
schools in Its own county.
