FINANCIAL EDITION
QlF
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituen
NIGHT
EXTRA
5SS.-UO. ibs
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, MARCH !), 15) 10.
CormotiT, into, nt nil! Ptini.ic LtDar.it CoitriNt.
1'llIOE ONE CENT
SE OF AMERICANS SLAIN
AS VILLISTA BANDITS RAID
NEW MEXICO BORDER TOWN
U. flnlHiers Slain in
Street Battle Defend-
; ing Civilians m u
; lumbus From Attack
I ftv to One Hundred of Mex-
lean Bana van mm ..
' doned ns Raiders Flee Back
to Border Three Cattlemen
Hanged and Burned
Ladings Set Fire and Occupants Shot
r .jhey Flee Flames uuuaw
I ' Chieftain's Papers Found Near
I' T.r.a Sent From Douglas
J Protect Ranches and Towns
AtmintIS N. 31- Mnrch 9. More
im Mexican soldiers, believed to
W .'' .i eJ . nnnlseo Villa, attacked
Itote Men i ..h. ., Amer.
TTn?dcr ear r today, killing live
Crlan oWler ancl eight civilians, men
3 men: set lire to the own and
igdfht a pitched iwittle will unite.. nuues
IDS On AIHO'-'
'OnlM'r " ... . iin.ics 0f
Korea nangeu ... ... -
iSJtelS. The vic-tlmn wcreAr.
EhnrsicKlnney. James u ;nciii aim n-
IhUt 'C'V""";-';,I.. ,. ...,, foreman nf
kf Falomas ranch, near the Hosqucs
ijxndM rancii, wneiu ... ......".. -
nid on me i i.e....
Hie Villa troops, It is said, also shot J.
Moore, a rancher, and an unidentified
Btrlcan, and burned their bodies.
PiMo Lopez, tho Villa leader, held re
.iM for the recent massacre of Amer-
!. t Santa Ysabel, took part In tho
,tticlc on Columbus. N. M., today.
FIVE SOLDIERS KILLED.
Th Mexicans were driven from tho
town after a struggle lasting more thnn
1 lour, and tno American soiuicrn pur
ilK them are said to have crossed Into
eilco. More than bo Mexicnns wero
ltd, according to reports received nore
host before noon.
The following American soldiers were
killed:
FRANK KENDALL, private. Troop K. 13th
Cmlry.
'M. A. DOBDS. a serceant.
P. BUIOK, a corporal.
HARRY WISWAt.L, corporal, Troop O.
JOHN VIEVERGi:i.T, a serccant.
Rumors that several guests died .In
nil Central Hotel to which the Mexicans
koplled the torch aro not credited, nl
tlouh the ruins nre being carefully..
Ittrched for trace of bodies. '
!Th known dead among the civilians nre:
W. T. niCIICT. rroDrletor of tho Central
Sfttj.
c c. Mii.Li.u, nruit Bioro proprietor.
JAMES OBAN, a leading merchant,
WIS. JAMES OBAN, wlfo of the merchant.
Mrs. Gean was shot down beside her
tauband In the defense of his home.
Miller was shot and hilled by tho Mexicans
More they set fire to his drug store.
IRIchey was no match for the bandits who
itticked his hotel, nichey was hilled by
their first volley. Three other men died
iildlnc the troops.
VILLA LED ATTACK.
General Francisco Villa himself led tho
raid, according to nianv of the lcadlntr
titans here.
A portmanteau containing personal na-
pen belonging to Villa was found Just
Mit of tho camp of tho 13th United
Elites Cavalry today, shortly after tho
itUck of Mexican bandits on the camp.
; BATTLE IN STREETS.
I The alarm was civen In rrnltiinlma
thortly after 4:30 n. ni when It was dls
eorered that the Mexicans had entered
til town, and wero setting nro to the
JiUdlnjs there. Tho first shotH were
Jred near the Central Hotel, from which
tM nests and employes ran when it was
wwid that the building was In flames.
1. T.. nichey. proprietor ot the hotel,
wi thot to death as he stepped outside
III door.
. From windows nnd behind houses the
American soldiers nnd tho Mexican In-
TuerS fOUITht for trinfA ilint. nn l.n,.,- hut
til Mexicans finally ned about 6 o'clock,
Mrot their dead nnd wounded.
f'S? Central tel "'as one of the 'first
NMtojg fired by the Mexican soldiers.
Knictiu Btood In front of the bulldlnir.
mm the guests were fleeing Into tho
njjt fired volley nfter volley at them.
!. raiding Mexicans, scattered about
liruhl dl3trlct' wore shooting In-
ue heart of the business district of
oiy a score of women and children
Continued on Van Two, Column life
rptrn ITl-m A m-r-i-m-r
n xAiiii vv iiiA'rniijJK
hh.'.V g0 back to nature to learn tho
!ST. . ' lne Bnortest or vacations.
i lar bear at th Zoo Is happy
.ft?.., y a"er a IB-mlnute vacation
Si ?leat BOrt :t consisted of noth
S J..!!"1" a hlB dense' low-hnnglng
rSfiv f ovor th0 clty ,n th0 IaP ot
imiii . j ."" ,ronl ll' norm, wnicn
tfitoL nJ , S.Shadow- almost like that of
mm. j,.. . .I """""'i'm. mo ;oo ana ino
iuJ'.w'J1 "minded him of his home
feftli.m. !"" i0,e an, he w"a happy
ranir of an hour that the twl.
enoSlh i, Aild "'" experience stored
Jrtr thfhapplness ln hln; to tide htm
IwV. .. t spring fever and the
"Pit vacation '?.W,,h numan bei"B8. A
SrJrv.M .. ften regenerates one "an
MU S,Zi ,1s ah ml8ht have 8ald
ICouM. ted the Arlc.
haUoal' ' UntU ,he BUmmer-and
lp FORECAST
Tit, j ""u"e,pn ana vicinity
S.?'?i ?! cold toniaht. with
WwaZZ:;0 Wren: Friday fair
zi7at;ew1etrluwinda'
r'Wetm Hltiinh' ,Srlll'i' evenlne. Jlareh 8.
!" Contain. o","c,'-r.e a,lJ Hlti-Carlt
.""i,s. mnon.oi i - .. - .-.
UrM
Ut
Kit if rMTiy-J". pi."inun.i. Liberal re.
schMi;:,;"''" ' J. k. Caldwell & Co..
IK" LAfflon" 1w,1(Say vnln, ilarch T. In
P's.I.Kwmi ft ? uamond ana platinum bar
M1.iJjitw?n.,Plan.dr UullJluir and
BJ Vila ft, .m? ,r'a- A lib. raward
ff -Mid If returud ta aoiT Locut it
"H and rouad Adj. oa l'act U. '
Facts of Bandit Attack
at Columbus, New Mexico
Eic?ht American civilians, resi
dents of Columbus, known dead.
. Five United States soldiers killed
in engagement with bandits.
Ranchmen hanged and burned.
Mexican dead strew streets of
town. Fifty to 100 killed.
Buildings burned by Mexicans
nnd Americans shot as they fled
from flames. Central Hotel fired
and guests incinerated.
One woman nmong the dead.
Unofficial consular reports tend
to confirm killing of Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Wright, Americans, in
Mexico.
Newton D. linker, new Secretary
of War, sworn in, faced at once by
problems in Mexican situation.
PLAN TO RESTORE
AUTO CONTESTS
Quaker City Motor Club
Launches Campaign and
Asks City's Aid
URGED FOR SEPTEMBER
Automobile races In Fnlrmount Park, n
feature of Philadelphia's sporting Ufa that
formerly nttracted thousands of visitors
and gained nation-wide advertising for this
city, will bo restored If tho efforts of tho
Quaker City Motor Club, launched today,
are successful.
Frank Hnrdart, of tho Board of Gov
ernors of tho organization nnd former
member of Common Council from the 17th
Ward, announced his Intention of asking
the Park Commission to hold n motorcar
competition next September.
Tho races were first held in 1D08 and
abolished In the administration of Mayor
Ulankenburg. Dr. J. William White, a
member of the Park Commission, was tho
chief opponont of tho undertaking, and It
was largely through his protests that the
city authorities refused a permit to the
Quaker City Motor Club to conduct the
races. Mr. Hardnrt will see Mayor Smith,
a member of tho commission, and ask hie
support for tho proposition.
Ho has reason to believe, he said, that
the Mayor's" attltudo will be favorable, lie
will also ask tho assistance of Dr. William
H. Oleason, president of Common Council;
James E. Lcnnon, president of Select
Council, and Joseph P. Gaffney, chairman
of tho Finance Committee of Councils.
Contributions by private citizens will also
be needed.
HARDATIT'S VIEWS.
Mr. Hardart's statement on the project
follows:
During the administration of Mayor
Royburn the Qunker City Motor
Club ran n number of successful au
tnmohllo races In Falrmount Park,
without any expense to the city, and
thoy realized from them approximate
ly $18,000. which was distributed
among vnrlous charities. Including tho
Police Pension Fund and the Fair
mount Park Police Fund.
The Quaker City Motor Club did
not realize any profit from these races
excepting the glory of being the In
strument enabling tho city to enjoy
tho same under proper management.
In fact, tho Quaker City .Motor Club
met with a financial loss amounting
to about $1400.
During tho administration of May
or Ulankenburg the races were dis
continued, on account of opposition to
them by tho Mayor nnd tho majority
of the Park Commissioners. This op
ixisltlon wns In spite of tho fact that
no nccldent to the public occurred,
nor could occur, on account of tho
thorough protection given by the po
lice provided by the city of Phila
delphia nnd tho park guards.
ATTENDED BY THOUSANDS.
The race was attended by upwards
of 500,000 people of Philadelphia, freo
of charge, as no admission was or
could be charged. A space, how
ever, was designated as parking spaco
for automobiles, for thoso who desired
to avail themselves of select space,
and tho charge was $10 per automo
bile. This money, as well as all mon
ey obtained from grand-stand seats,
was donated to charity.
Tho Quaker City Motor Club ob
tained nearly sufficient funds to run
the race from the entrance fees of the
vnrlous contestants.
Tho advertising given In these races
to tho city of Philadelphia was con
sldercd to be worth hundreds of thou
sands of dollars, as tho result of tho
races was flashed throughout the
country.
Similar races at Indianapolis, and
later at New York, realized from tho
sale of tickets and other privileges
enormous sums. From the best Infor
mation obtainable, the receipts of the
New York races approximated $326.
00O. The result of the 1014 races
nt Indianapolis, for admissions and
privileges, was about $300,000. The
admission to the Indianapolis races
was $5, and for parking space for au
tomobiles, from $10 to $50, according
to location.
BENEFIT TO CITY.
At Philadelphia the cost to Indi
viduals was nothing, and the parking'
space for cars did not exceed $10 per
car.
I believe that the citizens of Phlla-
Contlnurd on Page tire. Column til
PET DOG SAVES COUPLE
FROM DEATH IN FLAMES
Then, Woman Insists on Animal's
Rescue First
WILMINGTON, Del., March 9. Awak
ened by the barking ot their pet dog, Wil
liam Baldwin, chemist ot the (lit Pont
Powder Company, and his wife, were
saved from death today In a fire that
destroyed, the four-story apartment build,.
ing In which they lived.
Baldwin, who had been 111. was carried
down a ladder. Ills wife refused to leave
until the firemen had saved the dog.
WAR OPENED
ON PORTUGAL
BY GERMANY
Declaration Served Today
on Republic by Kaiser's
Minister at Lisbon
14 NATIONS IN CONFLICT
Rejection of Berlin Protest
Against Ship Seizure One
Casus Belli
BEItLIN. March 9.
Germany today declared wnr rm Por
tugal. Tho Portuguese Republic Is tho llth
untlon Invohrcl In the world cnnlllcl.
The German .Minister nt Lisbon today
notified the Portuguese Government of
the declaration, handing tho olllcliil doc
ument to the Foinlgn Minister Willi the
remnrk: '
"The German Government, therefore.
now considers herself from this date at
war with Portugal." i
The rjormnn declaration was based on
the act of Portugal In seizing, without
provlons notice. German merchantmen In
Portuguese ports.
This neflnn nni.i,,,.,. l.npn.n.l I..
,- ...... i,,,,,,.-i. in ,,
sharp note of protest, violated the exist
ing commercial treaties hptwppn Germany
nnd Portugal and offered cvltlenco that
Portugal Is "a vassal ot England."
To this note, Portugnl, on March I. re
plied with a communication to the Ger
man Ofllce. flatly rejecting the German
demnnds.
The Governments' action occasioned no
surprise. Portuguese nnd German troops
lind clashed earlier In the war In the
African possessions, Portugal alleging
that German troops had Invaded her ter
ritory. Portugal later sent troops to aid
tho British In operations against the tier
mnns, and in other ways openly displayed
her enmity for the Central Powers. She
wns hound to England by an old treatv,
pledging her to send 10.000 troops to Eng
land's assistance should England he at
tacked. The declaration of war, according to
an authorized statement from the Foreign
Ofllce this afternoon, wns mado necessary
by "Illegal seizure of German ships In
Portuguese ports, which wns tho gravest
breach of neutrality and of special treat
ies." "Germany was therefore obliged to sur
render her former forhenrlng attitude,
which she maintained on account of Portu
gal's awkward position with respect to
England," the statement added.
It Is hellcyed hero that Austria will
take similar notion. Austrian ships having
beon seized hy the Portuguese naval au
thorities. In many quarters it has been
hinted that another result will be Spain's
entrance Into the wnr on the side of
Germany.
Tho German statement lists a long
series of neutrality violation by Por
tugal, The charges are:
That Portugal gave English troops free
passage through the colony of Mozam
bique, In Africa.
That Portugal permitted English wnr
shlps to use her ports for a thno longer
than privileged under International law.
That tho English navy used tho island
of Madeira, belonging to Portugal, as a
naval base.
That engagements actually occurred be
tween tho troops of Portugal and Germany
In Gorman Southwest Africa and in An
gola. That members of the Portuguese Parlia
ment frequently Insulted Germany without
reprimand by other nfllclnls.
MOTHER'S ACT OF LOVE
KILLS HER OWN BABES
She Tosses Comforter Over
Them to Keep Them Warm
and They Smother
A mother's provision for tho 'comfort of
her children, thoughtlessly carried out.
caused a tragedy In Brldesburg this morn-
ing. Tho mother, Mrs. John l.ewnndowslti,
of 1152 Kdgemont street, sacrificed herself
to the cold so that her babies might be
warm, nnd thus sho killed them.
Mrs. Lewandowski Is tho wlfo of a
laborer. Ho goes to work long before
daylight and this morning ha had left
when she nroso shortly after 8. Her 13-months-old
daughter Pelagna, and 1-month-old
son, Ladislaw, had been sleep
ing with her. Sho feared they would be
cold with the warmth of her body re
moved, and so, after she had dressed, she
tossed her comforter over them.
Then she went downstairs, started tho
kitchen fire, prepared breakfast and re
turned to wako the children and take
them downstairs to tho comfortable,
kitchen. The children wouldn't wake up
She tried and tried, cooing at first and
flnnlly screaming. Her cries brought a
neighbor, who summoned the aid of a
policeman, and ho sent for Dr. J. L.
Wlzn, of till East Thompson street.
ROOSEVELT SAYS HE "DOES NOT WISH
NOMINATION, AND WILL NOT CONSENT"
NEW YORK, March 9. Col. Theodore Roosevelt "does not wish" tho
presidential nomination, and "will not consent" to having his name used
in any of the coming State primaries. He so declared today, in a statement
made at Port-of-Spain, Trindad, B. W. I., and cabled by Henry L. Stod
dard, of the New York Evening Mail. The statement makes it clear,
however, that despite his wishes the Colonel recognizes that his services
are subject to draft in a crisis. The statement follows, in part;
I must request and I now do request and insist that my name
be not brought into the Massachusetts primaries and I em
phatically decline to be a candidate in the primaries of that or
any other State.
I do not wish the nomination.
I am not in the least interested in the political fortunes, either
of myself or any other man.
I will not enter into any fight for the nomination and I will
not permit any factional fight to be made in my behalf. Indeed,
I will go further and say that it would be a mistake to nominate
me, unless the country has in its mood something of the heroic
unless it feels not only devotion to ideals, but the purpose measur
ably to realize those ideals in action.
Nothing is to bo hoped from the present Administration and
the struggles between the President and his party leaders in
Congress are today merely struggles as to whether the nation shall
see Us governmental representatives adopt an attitude of a litUe
more or less hypocrisy and follow a policy of slightly greater or
'slightly less baseness. All that they offer us is a choice between
degrees of hypocrisy and degree's of infamy,
'GERMANS TAKE FORT DE VAUX;
WIN TOWN FOUR MILES FROM
VERDUN; GAIN ALONG MEUSE
L. 'jLf i
v" ' " tfKSHfaSaK
R. II. DUUMN
"PATRIOTISM
DAY" PLANNED
Evening Ledger Idea In
dorsed by Poor Richards
and Governor
'AD" MEN APPLAUD
Hearty Response to Idea
of "Patriotism Day'
Advertising officials till over
country approve Evening Ledger's
suggestion to provide for "Patriot
jsm Day" during big ad convention
in this city next June.
Governor Drumbaugh and M. P.
Linn, president Advertising Club
of St. Louis, endorse plan.
II. A. Gatchol, vice president
Poor Richard Club, says, "Patriot
ism Day" would make 10,000 ad
vertising experts boosters of Amer
ican patriotism in all sections of
United States,
Poor Richard Club officials favor
setting aside Tuesday, June 27, as
"Patriotism Day." On this day a
great naval display has been ar
ranged at League Island and a big
military exhibition on Franklin
Field.
A plan for setting aside a day during
the convention of the Associated Adver
tising Clubs of thu World In this city next
.lime, for a magnificent display ot patriot
ism, was enthusiastically Indorsed today
by ollicials of tho Poor Itlchard Club, by
Governor Iliuinbaugli, nnd by heads of
advertising clubs In other large cities.
The suggestion 111 an editorial published
in today's Evk.nino Lmmiin that micli a
day be called "Patriotism Day" also wiiH
favorably received. Hubert It. lMublii.
president of tho Poor Itlchard Club, said
he would place tho suggestion before) tho
next meeting of thu Convention Committee
of the club.
II. A. Gntchel, vico president nf the
Poor Itlchard Club, said:
"I cannot think of any better thing
than using tho tremendous forces of pub
licity which wll be present at tho con
vention to boost the cause of American
patriotism.
"Love of country Is a great thing, and
If tho 10,000 advertising men who will
attend tho convention can deepen tho af
fection of Americans for their naiive
land nt this time, n wonderful amount
of good will havo hoen accomplished.
"Advertising commercial America must
go hand in hand with patriotism of tiio
highest order. I would suggest that
'Patriotism Day' be celebrated in con
nection with tho great nrmy and naval
exhibition, which will take place on Tues
day, Juno 27. of convention wuelt.'
Louis J. Kolb, u. director of the club,
said: "The observation of a 'Patriotism
Day' at this time would bo an excellent
thing. I heartily npprovo of the idea."
Governor Brumbaugh approved of tho
plan to set asldo a "Patriotism Hay" In
Continued an Pane Two. Tubulin Tuo
Fierce Night Attack
Northeast of French
Fortress Sweeps De
fenders From Lino
Paris Asserts Teutons Failed to
Hold Vnux After Entering
Village Crown Prince's
Troops Again Capture Car
beaux Woods
' Herlin Reports Further Advances
West of Meusc Admits Loss of
Ground in Argonno and Reports
Two lulled in Air Raid on Motz
lly a terrific night attack ngalnxt
the French centre. German troops have
(-upturn! Fort do Vnux. four miles north
c t of Verdun, the village of Vnux and
adjoining positions, according to olltcint
I ti-i-1 in dispatches this afternoon.
The Germans also made Important gains
in ;i renewal of the strong drive on the
urM bank of the Meuse, driving the
French from the t'orbeailx Woods. The
German gain imperils the strongly for
tilled French position of Goose Hill, north-
' west of the citadel.
i Two of the Verdun forts nte now In
I German bands. Hrnndcnbnigers stormed
I anil captured Fort Douaumuiit several
' days ago. l'osen reservists. It was of
j llciiilly announced In Herlin, drove the
French from tho armored fort of de Vnux,
I two miles southeast nf Dnunumont, In n
fierce battlo last night.
I Two other French foils, next In line
south of de Vnux. nro repotted nl
i leady badly damaged by heavy German
I howitzers. The capture of do Vnux places
! the French nt Fort de Tnvctines, two miles
to the southwest, in a dangerous posi
tion. The German gains arc the most Impor
tant won by the Crown Prince since the
early days of the assault against tho fort
ress! The Herlin reports, however, are
not confirmed In dispatches from the Paris
War Office. For several days, however,
French olllclnl statements have been 12
hours behind the German War Ofllce In
reporting on events around Verdun.
Paris admitted this afternoon that In a
furious battlo southeast ot Douaumont
plateau the Germans micceeded In enter
ing the village of Vaux. midway between
Douaumont and de Vaux forts. The
French War Olllco. however, declared that
tho Germans were almost Immediately
driven out by counter-attacks.
' BElVttN. March D.
German troops have captured Fort de
Vaux, four miles northeast of Verdun, It
Is olllclally announced today. The town
of Vnux was tilso taken. At tho same
time, however, the War Ofllce admitted
the loss of a trench to tho French at
Miilsons de Champagne. In tho Champagne
region.
Vaux was a mass nf ruins when the
German troops occupied the place, having
been smabhed by tho terrillc bombard
inont of the German artillery.
Fort Vnux. one of the glrillo of de
fensive works defending Verdun, lies less
than half a mlln south of the village.
Vaux Is a tnllu southeast of noiiauntont
and Its capture represents a gain of about
a mile for tho G.rmans.
ADMIT CHA.'PAGNE LOSS.
Following Is tho text of tho ofllclal Gor
man report: i
"Artillery activity on both sides has In
creased to the greatest violence.
"The French recaptured the western
part of the trench at Malsons do Cham
pagne, where we reported hnnd-gienado
lighting yesterday.
"West of the Meuse wo havo cleared
the Corbeaux Forest ot nil the French
that remained there.
"East of the Meuso, In order to shorten
tho connections between our positions
south of Douaumont and our lines lu tho
Woovre district, thu village of Vaux and
numerous adjoining fortified positions of
tho enemy wero captured In a night attack
delivered by Posen reserve regiments; un
der General Hnns von Gurotzky-Cornitz.
"Ill aerial engagements in tho neighbor
hood of Verdun wo wero the victors.
Three enemy aeroplanes were shot down,
nil our machines returning safely to their
base. However, several of our pilots wero
wounded.
"Enemy troops In villages cast und
south of Verdun wero heavily bombarded
from tho air.
"Two civilians were killed and several
prlvato houses wero damaged In tho at
tack upon Mots by a French ncroplano
squadron: Tho aeropl no carrying tho
commander of tho squadron was shot
down. The commander wns mado a pris
oner, but tno ouscrvor was killed "
PATHS. Mnich 9.
Fierce attacks wero renewed by the
Continued on 1'nge four, t'idiuiiii riirre
I TEDESCHf RICACOATI
DAL VILLAGGIO DI VAUX
Violent! Contrattacchi dei
Francesi Valgono a Respin-
gere II Nemico dalle Po-
sizioni Preso
La battaglla dl Verdun contlnua ancora.
ma ormal sembrn entratn nclla sun faso
finale. Un violento contrattneco fraiieeKe
operato leri ha tolto ai tedeschl la magglor
parte della posizloni che essl avevauu con
quistato In duo glornl ill battaglla con
sacrltlzit immeiibl dl uominl e di munizloni,
coslcche" II loro successo e stato vlr
tualmante neutrnllzzato. lerl i tedesclil
avevauo vlolentemente attaccato le posi
zloni francesl a iiord-est di Verdun, nelle
vlclnanze dl Vaux, ed avevano audio oe
cupato 11 vlllagglo, ma soltanto per esserna
cacciati poco dopo dal francesl die tl
lanciarono ad un vigoroso cotitrattacco.
Altrl nttacchl tcdeschl si ebbero nella
regione del bosco dl Corbeaux, ma turono
resplntl dal francesl che mantengono le
posizloni conqulstate lerl ed ormal consoli
date. La battaglla contlnua vlolentlsslma ad
est della Mosa, dovo pero' I tedoschl non
sono rluscltl a sfondure le II nee francesl.
SI dlco che I tedeschl ammettono di aver
psrduto 75,000 uominl nella battaglla dl
Verdun, e questa clfra da' un'ldca di
quello che le loro perdlte veramente sono.
(Leggcre in 5a paglna altre e piu' det
tagllito notizle sulla guerra. In ltaliano.)
QUICK
L7TTLE GIRL SCALDED TO DEATH
Holm Qeorge. tltiee years old. of 014 Sntttli ?tlt otrect, tiled Itt
llie poiviisylvrmm Hoapitnt this afternoon of burns wlileli she icceivctl
this ntotiilngt when site fell into a bucket of scalding wntei- at Iter
home. The Coroner's office Is Investigating the ense.
GERMAN AIRSHIPS SHELL MINSK RAILWAY STATION
BBttLlN. Miit.1i 0. -"Attempts of the ilusslnna to advance wcv
rcpulitd at '.vet? poiu.." 'lie Wnr Office vt ports. "Our alrship-i bom
budcd th tnilway at Minsk and utso the troops eou:cntrulcrl ,u att."
SECURES $1,225,000 AUTOMOBILE ORDER
LIMA. 0 March 0. Tho Grlnim-Bcrnstcln Company 1ms Just closed a
$1,228,00(1 order for nutotnoullo trucks, paid to bo for commercial purposes, to
rSront ISHtnlti.
PUSEY & JONES PLANT SOLD
WILMINGTON, Del., March !. Chrlstoper Hcnvlg, of Norway, has pur-rhnm-il
a majority of the stock, thereby obtaining control of the Puscy & Jones
Company, of this city, nuiniifneturern ot steel boats, paper-mnklng machinery,
cln, Ilctivig Ih n New York ship broker.
$8,137,1M.33 IN CITY TREASURY
Tho weekly statement of City Treasurer William McCoaeh shows that th
receipts titnotiulcil tn $2r.7.2SL'.l nnd thn payments) to $47-1,830.71. which, with
tho sum on hand Inst week, not Including tho sinking fund account, left a.
hnlnnca of $8.1 37, 11-i. 311 nt thr close of business Inst night.
NORSE SHIP STRIKES MINE; 15 BELIEVED DEAD
COJ'ENIIAOICN. Mnrch 9. Tho Norwegian steamship Mcmona struck a mlnu
nnd sunk in tho North Ken. according
ennv of 15 Is believed to have perished.
SENATE VOTES TO TAKE UP ARMOR PLANT BILL
WASHINGTON. March 3. The Senate by a voto ot 55 to 10 today decided
to give its attention next to Senator Tillman's bill appropriating $11,000,000 for
establishing n Government armor plnte plant.
CHICAGO AND NORTHWESTERN ORDERS LOCOMOTIVES
NEW YOHK. March 9. Tho Chicago and Northwestern Hallway Company
has placed nn order with the American Locomotive Company for 77 of tho 100
locomotives recently authorized by tho directors of tho company. The classi
fication of these engines was not stated, but Inquiries cover 28 six-wheel switch
ing, 11 Pacific and 35 Mikado type.
CONGRESSMAN S. H. MILLER TO RETIRE
WASHINGTON, March 0. Congressman Samuel II. .Miller, or Mercer, who
represents the 2Sth Pennsylvania District, today announced that ho would not
be a candidate to succeed himself nt the forthcoming primary, as he desired to
retire to privato life at tho conclusion of his term.
MAYOR AND PARTY TO LEAVE FOR VACATION
Mayor nnd Mrs. Smith and si party of friends will lenvo for Aiken, S. C,
tomorrow afternoon for a ten-day vacation. Tho party will Include Coroner
and Mrs. William 11. Knight, Jr.; Itecoriler of Deeds nnd Mrs, James Ilazlett,
Receiver of Taxes and Mrs. W. Frcelnnd Kondrlck, Sttito Senator and Mrs.
Edwin It. Van nnd Mr. and Mrs. II. Dolflngcr. They will leave tho North
Philadelphia Station at 3 o'clock. During their stay the party will play golf,
shoot and "Just plain rest."
DR. ALONZO E. TAYLOR GOING TO BERLIN
Dr. Alonzo E. Taylor, Hush professor of physlologlcul chemistry at tho Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, will sail for Germany Saturday ns lied Cross attacho
of tho American Embassy in Herlin. llo will lenvo the city tomorrow. Tho
appointment closely follows that of Dr. D. J. McCarthy, professor of medical
Jurisprudence at the University, as American physician to observe conditions In
German prison camps.
LEVER TO QUIT AS CHELTENHAM CHIEF OF POLICE
Pollco Chief Lever, of Cheltenham township, 1ms compiled with a request
of the township commissioners thnt he resign and will retire Mnrch 21, Thnt
politics wns at tho bottom of tho action was denied hy John J. Campboll, head
of tho Police Committee. Chief Lover would not mako a statement. Other
changes include, tho retirement of Patrol Driver Charles Hamilton and tho
nppointment of Theodore Ifnlliivell as house sergeant.
MARTIAL LAW IN CARTAGENA AFTER BLOODY RIOTS
MADRID, March 9. Martini law was declared at Cartagena today follow
ing 3G hours of rioting on the part nf La Union foundry workers. Two thou
sand strikers attacked the foundry, which was defended by 10 armed guards
employed hy tho company nnd a number ot soldiers. Five strikers were killed
nnd a number seriously wounded.
ENVER PASHA'S DEATH DENIED BY TURKS
LONDON, March S. Tho Turkish Legation nt Athens declares there Is no
truth In tho story that JJnver Pashn, Turkish War Minister, was attacked by
a would-be assassin or thp.t he died from his wounds, according to dispatches
received hero today.
CANADA'S RECRUITING ADS HELD LEGAL
WASHINGTON. March 0. Tho insertion In American newspaper! by
Canadian Interests of advertisements urging American citizens to join th
Canadian military forces for service ln Europe, hn3 been Investigated by. the
Postolllco Deportment and tho decision reached that no violation of Arntricau
law Is involved. No action to provont passage through the malls of this matter
la contemplated by the department.
AUSTRIAN'S HALT IN GALICIAN ADVANCE
BERLIN. March 0. The Ausfc-Juns have mado no further advanced In
Gallcla following their cuptuie ot 1000 yards of Russian trenches northwest ot
Tarnopol. An oillcial statement from tho Austrian War Office, telegraphed
liero today, mentioned only Intermittent combats on the front of Archduke
Kerdinand'a army.
AMERICAN WITHDRAWS SUIT AGAINST BRITISH PAPERS
LONDON, March 9. George Gordon Moore, Michigan millionaire, whoso
association with Sir John French at British nrmy headquarters led to much
adverse criticism, today withdrew his libol suit against E. Hulton & Co., pro
prietors of a number of newsimpers which attacked him.
Mooro has been an intimate friend of Viscount French, former British com
mander In France, for several years,' and ha3 shared a house, with tho Field
Marshal.
One of the defendant papers published an article accusing Mooro of obtain
ing military secrets ut French's headquarters, sending them to America and
using his position to hurt tho Allies' cause. Ills clstar, it was printed, was a,
frequent visitor to the Bernstorff household on Long Island.
MONTENEGRO TRANSFERS CAPITAL TO BORDEAUX
LYONS, March S. The seat of the Government of Montenegro h3 boii
transferred from Lyons to Bordeaux The Ivinx and tho other member of Ihd
royal family, with the Cabinet g.Ttceio, left here lntt nlsiit to tako up resident
In a mansion p.-epnrcd for tnem.
NEWS
to dispatches received here today,
The.
