FT.-"!
CLAIM ANOTHER FORT NEAR VERDUN
WEATHER Fair to-night, Friday cloir and warmer.
EDITION
CDTOV
" Circulation Books Open to All." ' ) "Circulation Hooks Open 1o A1L"
PRIJE ONE GENT.
Con) right, llllll, by Tho 1'm-m I'ntilUliInf
Co. (The Urn Yofk World).
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1916. 18 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
UiKMAMS
MMML
FINAL
Mm
M
M
i VILLA ARMY KILLS 16 AMERICANS
IN RAID ON UNITED STATES TOWN
n vaux res ID
IN NIGHT BY KAISER'S MEN; :
DRIVEN OUT, PARIS ASSERTS!
,.. I
i
! Colonel of Force at Columbus, N. M.;
i
Villa's Lieutenant Who Was Slain
German Right Wing Reported Re
pulsed in Drive on the West of the
Meuse Paris Says Line at
de Vaux Still Holds.
1IKKMN, March i. -Kurt ilc Vaux. defending Vordun from the can,
d tho villago of the same name, have been captured by the Germans, V
s announced this afternoon. Adjoining fortified positions were also
by tho German troops, It wan stated.
The assault was made at night by I'oscn reserve regiments.
Three Fronch aeroplanes have been uhot down In combats aiotind
erdun. tho War Office uIbo repotted. German fliers bombarded vlllaBcs
TBt and south of Verdun.
Trench lomcs in tho Verdun fighting now total between TO.Ouo and
60,000. Major Mnrnht. noted Ucrlln military critic, estimated to-day. Ho
ays U0.00O Trench soldiers have been taken prisoners.
The tost of to. day's statement levy
Army Headquarters i' ns follows.
"Tlie I'ten.-li leonptnrcd lb'- western
nrt o ii i .-.-iit-li near tin .f.irm "f Mai-
ous J" I'linmpaslte. wief h.md-
freniidc IlKlilil.c oeniivr.l ycterlu j
"Wert of Ihe Meiixo wo were occu
pied in clear.np out tho rest. ! t'.i"
F rench troops lomalnlnc in tbe woods (
af Corli'iiuv ' j
"To the east of the river, to shorten I
pie connections between our positions j
to the south of I iniintimont ami our
ROOSEVELT SEES
MO HOPE FOR THE
FUTURE IN WILSON
Hues In tbe Woevro district, tho v.I
'!okc and armored fort ot Vau with
umeroti ndJolnuiK fort Hied poMtloiih
fc-cro capture I in a slorious night at
tack, after thornu&h artillery prep-
ration, bv fie l'oscn llecervc ll'-Ri-ncnts
numbers st and nineteen,
under the leadership of tho com
fnonder of the Ninth Kcborvo Division
pt InUntr. Gen von tJurctsky
fcornlu."
"In a sctics of aerial cnKsemonts
S the neighborhood of Verdun our
.viators -were victors, It la certain
Chit three enemy aeroplanes wero
Itfiot down. All our aeroplanes re
turned Mfely. Several of their bravo
pilots were, wounded. Enemy troops
villages west and south of Verdun
fere Jieavllv bombarded.
"fly the attack of a French aero
plan squadron within the radius of
(die fortress of MeU two civilians
Were killed and several housed dam
aged. In an aerial battle the machlno
It the commander of the squadron
(Continuod on Fourth Page )
i
RECORD OF THE WAR'S
GREATEST BATTLE IX
STRUGGLE FOR VERDUN.
The German Crown ITinco
launched the attempt to capture
Verdun elKbtcen days a-". What
followed bps proved to be the
s-eatest battle of tbe wai.
German tioops bave captured
two Verdun foits. l-'t square miles
ot French territory mote th.ui
twenty vtllftnes ami 20,000 prison
ers. The German front bus advanced
from nine or ten miles to within
five and six miles of Verdun.
German lossea are estimated by
tho Fronoh (it more than 126,000.
French losses are estimated by
tho Germans at more than 75,000.
More shells havo been fired than
In any previous battlo In tlho war.
nil jh
U. S. CAVALRY ROUTS MEXICANS
IN NIGHT ATTACK ON COLUMBUS
Two Women Shot Dead by Snipers
as They Ran From Burning Build
ings Report Says From 50 to 100
of Invaders Are Slain by Soldiers
While in Flight.
GOIUMHUS N. Mex., March Q.F-rancisco the .Mcxicm
I1.111.lit. with .ill the officers who remained loyal to him anJ a command
01 fully ioo men invaded the United States at this point, sevcnty-thiec
miles wcai of 1:1 Paso at 4.30 o'clock this morning, attacked the sleeping
town, killed nine civilians, including two women and seven soldiers of
the Thirteenth Cavalry, set fire to several buildings, attempted to rob the
i.t s.j, ;
Villa Threatened to Burn Women
and Children to Force President
Wilson to Intervene in Mexico
Troops Pursue Invaders Across
the Border.
COL. M i
SUOC.UM
Talks df 'i I.-md-tn-Mouth",
Measures Taken in I-'ear
ui Vote.
Col. Theodore Konsnvelt. who I now
at Trinidad. Ilrltlsb Vm In lies,
uave out to-day throtiRh l:. I.. Stod
dard of tlie New York livening: Mail,
who Is 'Altb hnn on I lio tnp, the fol
low i nK statement :
"I am deeply sensible of the h nior
conferred on me and of the good will
shown mo by tho gentlemen who have
announced themselves nH delegates, to
be elected In my Interest In the
Massachusetts Presidential primary.
Nevertheless, I milM request, and I
now do request and Insist, that my
it.iino bo not hnuKht Into the Masbu-
chuscttH primaries, and I emidintliMl- j
ly decline to he a eandldato In .Mr j
jiriinarlts of thai or of nny ollie.-
.State.
"Months aso I formally uutltled tin
authorities of Nebraska, Minnesota
and MichlK.in to tills rllec:. 1 do not
wish thu nomination, i am iiol the
loasl Interested In tho political for
tunes either of myself or any ether
man.
"I am Interested in akenlrm: my
fellow countrymen to tho need of
facing unpleasant facts. I am Inter,
fated in thu triumph uf the creat
principles fur which, with all my
heart and soul, I havi' striven and
ihall continue t" strl,. I will not
enter into any flKlu roe the nomina
tion and I will not prrmlt any in.
tion.il fiKbt t lm mud' in my lu huK.
"Indeed, I "HI o fditlni and nay i German .diliw m l'"i muw -i t
that It would he .1 mistake to uoliil- Wlilili was the jriavest l.reat ii of n n
nato mo unless tlie country has In. us
'!
''
GERMANY DECLARES
WAR ON PORTUGAL
iei.aiu ui cjemi.ni r..luiiiiiien
HringN f-'ourteeutli Nitioii .
tiveh lntu liiiio'eai) i:mili;i.
HKItl.lN, March !) Ueimanv de
clared war on Portuirul to-da.
The Guimau Minister nt I'.isbun to
day notified the I'ui'tllBUi'hM flovrr
tnent of tlie duelatation, Imncllny 'h
olllcial document to the Fiirelun
Minister.
"This makes 'lie foul leent ii.i ion
now involved in the preat fctriiinle in
Ulliope."
Tile iledui'iltK'ii ! war. unordliilt
to an nuthoi I7.1 d stateit.itlt fl'Oii 'In
I'oreiKM iqhie iln- iifiernotin.
mud 1 ni.ewun h "illeanl heiuii
mood Homnthliif? of thu heroic, uiiIuh-'
It feols not only like dovotuiR Itself
to IdeaN, hut to the jiurnose mensur.
ably to realiKu those ideals In action.
"Thlt is one of those taru limes
whlcli come only at lonh" intervals In
a nation's history, when thu action
(Continued on Fourth I'asc )
tralitv and of spcrml tieatle."
It 11, In lleveil here 1 'mi Austria
will take slmiliii a t-1 ii.it. Aiihirian
ships linvlnu been seized l, 1 ' 1
Portugese naval authorities. in
many quarters it iias Imen hlnti 1
that another result will hit Kpain's
entrance Into the war on the side
of (ierinanx
I'ortuRal n,.s lirotiKln al"ii, ly He
.i t of Portugal In requisitioning Gel -man
merchantmen u hi, ,1 hul been
niteinod in lire ports. I'ollowniic Hi
nelzilio of these vessels, lieinuili ad
dreneii an ultimatum u, I'ortuttal d"
mnndiiiK return of the snip
Them have been frequent ie,i,M
Portugal was about to decline war n
Germany beeaie of her ireni t'ui
lions with Great liritniti, which bin I
Portui,Ml to plain 10.000 troups .it iln
ulspoHiil of (ireat llrilain wlwn 11
limed.
Th peace estiibllsbment of p,.tni
;;al h itetlvti ann is nboiti ao.nuo. An
avallables, Ineltidlin; active army, re
serves and territorials, inn estim.itf,!
at from aoo.imu to -1011,1100. Tlie miv
I'onslhts of one old battli-fchlti, ttv'e
piDlel'ted enilsetH ,ind uIhiIII line x
Mnulli 1 vm
LINER eTpAGNeTn'pORT.
I'l'eneli "leiinn e Mnl.r. n(e nim,
I'i-oiii eii orl. It ll,irileiiit,
II01:1i:M' .Mi. 11I1 .Vie i'l.-n
liner K'l'.'lKlle lli'lll .S" i"K 'lltei.H
the mouth ol tin iii"iid lo-'l i (iu.ii.
to loir hIii will irolntil not l.md le 1
pu...-ii'tii;i b'biie e. idnu
ii i'tuiw'i iiiroiiR'i the waIN .H.d tiuJ
IliiKlniHl to lnUr e I nil in llmrlnl
Mm.
l.HMniN. Mmeli 0 - Tin nr WKp.ipei .
HiiiioniK e this mnrnliiR' th.,1 the pro,
liiiuit ion will h, 1 n ,ni 1 il ii,At e, I,
ivilunii to tlm 'olnri, inn 11 id riien he
lit.tHi. Ihr r,e,.M if I v. .nit,........, ... I
The rupture be'.tvevn 'jeiinjny and iiurt -f,
Imiin m, iired thcuiviik
d '.ellini;.' and hole'-.
Villa allocked the town In loree wllli the full deteniillialioii of killing
iMcrilenl) In iln- place mid wiping I'oliiinhiii off the ninp. In 11 Hpcecli to
men lust before ordcrinc tliein In tile attack lie said he intruded In
make 11 lurch out of eieri 111 11 11. uniiinn and child In tlie ton 11.
Mihough outiitiiiilvied ami taken completely Ity Mirprie, luo iroops
ui ilu- I hirteenth Civ.tli.. in .imp on ihe edge of the town, siiled into
the Mexicans and drove tiu'tn d'f with great slanghtei. The hodits
ui i enituir .MexiiMii .seie uaihered up in and around Columbus and
himed hefnre noon. CJihet Ix-.lies are heing brought in Ii i reported
ili.it mure ihan lifn and p"ibh 'ne hundred ol the bandits uere -lam
h'. i';e infuriated cavalrymen and ihe citizen who joined in the pursu.'l.
Ihe two troops vtolloneil here mid three other Iroups from ('IIimiii'
llaneli. lll'teeli miles ncs), Iki'.c mme into Ueien tiinler ciuiitiiand nf Major 1
i linjikins mid .Major I. Indole;. squint of ciualri Is on tin, imj niri, 'llim
hut Itlisv.
Villa is believed to luw tied Imig iviuie :ii men broke liiuuud be
loie ihe ait.icks d' our tioops ,ni, i probably heading toward his relre.il
in Ghiluialui.1.
()t'E OF VILLA'S CHIEF AIDES SLAIN.
v order- hac been given 10 the kM.ariiien aboui .oniinj back.
I he ate tar inio VUico uou and noh; .,111 tell when they will stop.
Annnj; ihe invaders killed was Col. Pablo Lopez, chlei licuicnam
ol Villa, and his l:od surmounted tlie pile of corp-es which was burned
on the prairie just ouNdc the town tonlav.
A number of Mexican prisoners were taken. They were all wounded
and unable to get away. The Mexicans say that it waj, Villa's design tu
attack the town and wipe out the soldiers as they charged to the rescue.
Me posted snipers to pick off the cavalrymen, but the soldiers came 100
last and the snipers -were surprised and fired at random.
Kildenlly n sniper had been .Mntlnnrd ouMde (he 'qtinrlcn of Col.
Herbert J. Slociim, tin- commander of the Thirteenth, ni a sliot mis llrcd
ill him its lie rnn mil the door nnd a bullet knocked his pistol from bis
hand.
Hui for ihe ijuick turn out and savage attack 01 ihe United bi.ttes
..ivalmnen and the aid rendered by a few brave citizens who picked ott
the Mexicans wiih rifle and revolvers from the window", and doors ot
their homes Villa's force would probably have ?ei.ed the town and ac
complished a wholesale massacre. He had the advantage ol darkness
and a complete surprise as there were no guards.
The troops started in pursuit of the Mexicans, vowing that the
would bring Villa back, dead or alive. Villa's invasion was undoubtedly
prompted by a desire lo fotce the United States to intervene in Mexico
l'!ie situation is complicated by the assertion of soldiers and civilian
ha; CarraiiM -oldiers took pail in the attack on the town. Il is prob
able taa! the Carrana guard at the border wa overpowered by ihe h:g
Villa force and compelled to join tlie expedition. Valuable informa
tion about tlie raid was given to Col. Herbert .1. Slocum, in charge ol
the militan lorccs here, by a Mexican ranchman who was a prisonei
ui ine Villa invaders and escaped during tlie battle.
I'!'e Mexican told Col. Slocum that Villa lett the Ilo.-ittes Crandes
n. n I ioJ.iy. made a leisiireh journey north, and about four yesteidax
t env 01 leu a point on the Uoca Grande and started lor the horde;.
Tiavelling nurlh, they crossed the boundary west ot Columbus,"
ii 1 ine Mexican, "and entered town In a ditch running past the cavalr.
.amp. Villi was in per-onal charge and declared he was going to kill
fveiy 'Vmeiican because the Vmerican (iovernment did not treat him
light. Villa declared Carraiua could not bring peace in Mexico. With
Villa were I'ablo l.ope., Martin l.ope Col. Candelario bevautes, Col.
Cm. Chavez, den Jose t-'ernande' and lien. Heltran."
VILLA l'LA,S TO FORCE INTERVENTION.
Ilu Mexican, who urged that his name be not used, continued a
Ircjcoi pi.'viot.sly given out by Carian.i officials that before leaving the
:.iiita V.... district, in Western Clnliualuia, villa n.u treely stated that he
intended torce intervention by the United -States by raiding Vmerican
lei ritoi and killing civilians and soldiers.
I.ic.a. fjlyce HI v. with twenty men ol the New Mexican National
i mard, .imved from Deming to-day and joined the Hederal troops.
Tlie civilian dead: V. 1.. Hitchie, hotel proprietor; Walton Walker
l uiied s.atC' C'usttinis riders; Milton James, Mrs. Milton James, wife o
me teud.'i of ihe railroad pump house, J. S. Uean. C. C. Miller, druggui,
unideniitiui chaulteur, and J. J. Moore, merchant.
I'lu viexicin who told Col. Siocunt about Villa's moveinents claim
.ui ;!.: ..wading party was maae up oi Suo or more men and a machine
i siiii pit." -ii, bin this i- doubted. It Villa had a machine gun he did no'
1 .i.e ii. 1 1 fvsr, there is no disposition to doubt tlie Mexican's statement
dial Villa ha- i.ihio men at his disposal and can bring an army of tlm
-ie over ihe border any time he pleases if he escapes this time.
Tn sip G, stationed at the border gate south ol here, caught the
retreating Mexicans on tlie Hank and killed eighteen. Corpl Wiswall or
the same trtop wa shot through the right eye and killed.
I ieu:. Hesoii ot Troop (j was wounded in the left ami.
V number ol the Mexican wounded were taken to the Post Hospital
( o. sjloeiiin'i reioher oi hot ant of his hand ai he emerged duu
