D
VNioziav 'XIN3QnT-
OS
WEATHER
Arizona Clearing.
Colder north
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Aversgs price o
per for week
March 1, 26.64.
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 244.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, MARCH 9, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
mutin
mrpp roc PH
POSITIONS 1 J
TAKEN BY W
GERMANS Hry a
Continuation of Drive Nets
Germans Gains Over Five
Mile Front and Two Miles
in Length.
TEUTONS CAPTURE
FOUR VILLAGES
Big German Fleet off Holland
Coast; Russians Report
Continued Successes on Di
vers Fronts.
LONDON7, March 8. Fighting of
great violence between the French
aud Germans lias been in progress
from Bethincourt, northwest Verdun,
to the Meu.se, and cast of the Meuse
from the Southern slopes of Cote de
Telou to the Douaumont region, the
battle fronts aggregating about ten
miles.
Spirited artillery duels continued
a'ona the center of the front about
Verdun. A continuation of the Ger
p an drive, northwest of Verdun, is
asse'ted by the Germans to have net-If-d
the French positions over a front
of nearly five miles and virtually two
niles in length, and enabled them to
capture fifiy eight officers and over
3,000 men. The, villages of Forges,
Reganville Heights, Raben and Cumie
TP7. fe'l into tbp hands of the Germans.
; Ti e Fr?nch did not give up their
jo-itions wi'hout strong resistance,
,1'hey suffered lioavy casualties, ' erpe-;
einily hi the southern fringp of the
rmuierez Woods. In the C'orbeaux
Wood, recently occupied by the Ger
trans the French drove the Germans
cit of the greater part of their posi
tion. The German j.tlark against the
French on the Retliinrourt lines was
repulsed. East cf the Meuse the Ger
mans recaptured Hardaunient redoubt
in a line straightening maneuver macM
in progress on a front of about five
"iles along the southern slope of Cote
de Talon,, Cote de Poivre and the Dou-1
"ii-niont region in the Wovre district
southeast, of Verdun the Germans
forced the French to lose their hold on
the outlying positions and held the
village of Fresnes. In the Meuse hills
the French are shelling the German
guns.
Russian wrr ships are active in the
Jt'ack Sei. bombarding coasl towns,
while continued progress of Russian
forces is evidenced in the capture of
the town of Ili:a. one of the important
'-Mectives of the Russ'an army. In
Persia the Russians are forcing their
advance at a lively pace and have cap
tured the town of Sehna, northwest of
Kermanshah. Artillery activity is in
creasing along the Pneister River and
Bessarabian frontier. Fifty large Ger
man warships accompanied by armed
trawlers. Zeppelins and submarines
were sighted steaming west off the;
Holland coast, according to the cap
tain of a s;eam trawler.
PRISONERS AT VERDUN.
PARIS. March 8. Prisoners taken
at Verdun estimate that losses to
battalions which participated in in
fantry assaults since February 25
average two thirds of their total
strength.
"The officers promised us," said
one prisoner, "that the cannon would
clear the way so we could occupy the
French lines almost without loss. We
believed also that at each stage of
our advance our artillery preparations
would enable us to continue without
great risk.1 Instead our battalion, un
der unheard of fire, from field and
machine guns for hours, was cut to
pieces. The effort we made passed
all measure of human strength. This
is why the march on Verdun failed."
ARE TURNKS WAVERING?
PETROGRAI), March 8 The activ
ity of the Russian torpedo fleet in the
Black Sea against coast towns east
of Trebizond is continuing with suc
cess. The Turkish coast defenses are
crumbling before the intensity of the
Russian bombardment. Apparently
there is growing disposition among
the Turks alone the shore to surren
der without fighting. Rumors of
Turkey's1 willingness to enter peace
negotiations with Russia are increas
ingly current, but receive no official
confirmation.
ENVOY OF GRATITUDE
COMES FROM FRANCE
I I-.. - . I I I
Jules Bois..
Jules Bois, distinguished French
poet, dramatist and journalist, has
jjst arrived in this country on a
"mission of sentiment," as he de
. scribes it, to distinguish it from the
missions of many of his compatriots
uho have preceded him. While here
he will arrange for the education in
this country of many young French
men who will serve appienticeships
in the great banking houses, in the
mills and on experimental farms.
AFFIDAVITS FOR
IE
FILED
Davidovich Damage Suit vs.
S. & P. Company May Dis
close Some Sensational
Transactions in the Case.
TOMBSTONE. March S. (Special)
There promises to be some startling
developments come out of the recent
trial of the damage case of Steve Dav
idovich against the Superior & Pitts
burg Mining Company which was tried
during the first week in February and
in which the jury brought in a verdict
fcr damages in the sum of $10,000.
The action was brought by the plain
tiff against the company for damages
in the sum of $30,000 for the alleged
loss of one eye and damage to the oth
er, alleged to be due to an accident to
the plaintiff while he was in the em
ploy of the defendant company in the
Warren District.
According to a number of affidavits
that were filed yesterday in the appli
cation for a new trial, the plaintiff
Steve Drvidovich was not injured in
the employ of the defendant company
at Bisbe but was injured ; several
years ago while in the employ, of t he
Old Dominion Copper Company at
Globe and that his eye was put out at
that time by his drilling into a missed
hole, and that he was treated in the
hospital there for a long time and was
afterward given a job on top of the
mine there so that he could attend to
it on account of the accident that had
befallen him.
That there could be no mistake a
bout it not being the same man' who
worked in Globe and was injured there"
and the plaintiff -in the case here in
this county, one of the men for whom
he worked there went to Bisbee and
picked the plaintiff out of a crowd.
At the time the plaintiff claimed ha
was injured in the mine of the defend
ant company the doctors who were
called to examine him. said that the
injury that he claimed to have been
recent, was not and that it bore all
evidence of having occurred a long
time prior, but under the law they
were not Rllowed to testify because it
was a privileged communication and
could not be admitted without the per
mission of the plaintiff, who objected,
although the doctors were here ready
to testify as to the injury.
One of the affidavits filed by Attor
ney DeAutremont for the company
alleges all of these facts while there
are a number of other affidavits from
persons in Globe who were working
there at the time and were acquainted
with the plaintiff and knew of his ac
cident there. In this affidavit a state
ment is made that the attorney for
the company does not believe that the
attorneys for the plaintiff. Messrs.
Sutter and Cleary. were aware of the
fsrts in the case but were, imposed up
on and that the true facts were never
given to them.
There are some other grounds given
for the motion for a new trial, in. fact,
twenty-one, but most of tbete r
I (Continued op Pas 4)
It TIL ARE
PARIIAMrNT
I Mill.. Hill L I. t
V SCENE OF
r QUARREL
Churchill's Criticism of His
Successor, Balfour Furnish-:
es Political Sensation of the
Year.
BALFOUR'S REPLY
MARKED BY PASSION 1
Churchill Demands Reinstate
ment of Lord Fisher with
Whom He Quarreled; His
Popularity Suffers.
LONDON. March 8. The return of
Churchill, former First Lord of the
Admiralty, in order to criticize the
management of the navy under his sue
cessor. Arthur J. Balfour, has been the
political sensation of the year. Church-
Mil's demand for the reinstatement of
Lord Fisher with whom he quarrelled
ever the Dardanelles expedition when
the latter was First Sea Lord, was a
! complete surprise. Newspaper com
ment indicates that Churchill s speech:'
has not improved his popularity.
BITTERNESS MARKS REPLY
LONDON, March 8. Bitterness!
marked the reply of A. J. Balfour. '
First Lord of the Admiralty, in the ,
House of Commons, to Colonel Church j
; ill's attack on the naval administra -
tion. which thp First Lord said was
unfortunate, both in form and sub
stance, and likely to arouse misgivings i
While deprecating the controversy
Balfour declared: "I absolutely deny J
Churahill's hharges." H threw the
blame on Churrhill for depleting the.
Iranksof skilled shiprights by allowing
jthem to join the army, thus hindering
ithe shipbuilding plans.
! "If fleets at the command of this
i
I country at this moment are not suffi
cient to secure safety, then in the
whole historf of Great Britain thpy
iever btve been." was the parting j
shot of Balfour. Churchill retorted in
a brief speech, repeating his doubts! DIEGUE2 IN CHARGE
of the execution of th battleship and j DOUGLAS. March 8.- General Die
destroyer program and asserting that uez who rHurile(, fIom tne 8tate of
even now Balfour had not given any j jalis,.0 wm resUme direction of the
assurance on this point. The commit- j ,.aninail:n ayaills, ,e Yamiis. ai-cU-
tee pventtially approved the vote of
1 350.000 men for the navv and "token"
expenditures, introduced in this man
ner to avoid giving total amounts.
VILLA MOVING WESTWARD
DOUGLAS. March S. Francisco Vil
la and his forces who hnvA reached
the ranch of the Palomas Land and
Cattle Company in Chihuahua, ten
miles south of the American border,
are moving westward according to ad
vices received from the manager of
the ranch at Hachita. N. M. It is be
nrvt-u unr Mii , mu iiut-i.ur.i iu
turn to Cajon de Chimeneas, south-
west of his present position. The re-
jinstatement of General Dieguez is
lieved to foreshadow the early retire-
ment of General Calles from the mili-,
tary governorship of Sonora as Die
guez Is a war mfriend of Obregon.
MAY BLOCKADE ENGLAND
'.
LONDON, March 8. The blockade ;
of England by mines, reported as ,
threatened by Germany, is already tn j
existence along the Holland trade i
route, according to naval circles. Ger--
man submarines are reported to have ,
been busy recently laying anchored
mines between the mouth of the !
Thames and Quallower Lightship. It
was In this neighborhood that many
disasters occurred last month.
TONNAGE ON LAKES
j CLEVELAND. Xlarch 8. Th de- HONOLULU. March 8. The su
imand for men on the Great Lakes is preme court of Hawaii held Liliou
j tremendous, according to the state- kalani, the former Queen, was mental
iment of lake shipping interests. Morrt'ly competent when, several years ago,
Jtonnage has been lined up than ever j she executed a deed of trust convey
Ibefore. It is estimated that fifty-fivi ; ing all her property to three trustees
i million tons of ore will bo moved, j headed by the late Samuel Cleghorn,
Added to this will be 30.OOQ.000 tons I father of the Princess Kaiulani. also
of coal and H.OOO.000 tons of grain.
FINDS DEAD BODY.
NEW YORK. .March 8 A police
man found a body in a house on
West Eleventh Street supposed to be i
that of Nellie Kiernan. apparently: FLOOD IN NORTHWEST
beaten to death. In the room was Dr. j HOQUIAM. Wash.. March 8. Gray'a
Benjamin Searing, who. according to Harbor is facing serious flood result
tenants, had introduced the woman asj'ne from forty-eight hours' continuous
his wife. The phvsician was dared. . railfail. A large amount of mow in
The apartment indicated a Vrueale. '
The coroner said the woman was j
dead aver eighteen hours The doc-
tor was taken to Belleview and re-1
lapsed into unconsciousness.
"COURT OF LEAP YEAR" BIG NEW FEATURE AT
YOUNG MEN TOO SHY TO PROPOSE WILL BE
t
i
r "The Court of Leap Yar at the San Diego exposition.
"The Court of l.ap Year" is to be one of the big i ew features that will be dedicated with San Diego's 1916
ex position. Muk Ii 15. During the entire yer ita I'anc.s mii! sooal tvents held here will be under the reign of
tl..: ffiitli-r st;;. Yt.it:;; ir.-n ue.siiing in:.t: imor.j, out t.,u 1 asl.ful to piupoee, are especially initeJ.
VILLA Will
10 1LES OF
! rveport from IXUUmbUS,
N.
M., Says Rebel Leader is at
One of Palomas Ranches
in West Chihuahua.
COH'MCCS, N. XL, March 8.
Francisco Villa and his forces reached
j l,he ran, h of tne p'"'as Land at .l
nine cuiupaiiy i .ogaies, i uinua
hua. ten miles belf.w the border, ac-
cording to a telegram from the Ame
rican foreman of the ranch. It made
no mention of Arthur XlcKinney.
James Corbett and James O'Neill,
American cattlemen, believed to have
J been taken prisoners yesterday.
ing to reports from Hermosilla. Gen
eral Serrano, who has been in com
mand of the Yaqui campaign, wa or
dered to Celaya. Mexico, to join i!ii
expeditionary forces assembling to
operate against Zapata. '
It is said Obregon is organizing an !
army of J5.000 for the Zapata camp- j
aign. Luis Cabrera, the escretary
treasurer of the dc facto government.
returned to Agua Prieta from an in-j
spection trip to Nacozari. j
REBEL LEADERS EXECUTED
c,ai rt.ports reached here from tnei
West Coast of Mexico that the Mexi-I
tan (le ,at.to officials had disposed of
be-,tne flve Trb? generals, captured in
Sonora. bv drooDing them over the
rail of a shin on which they were be-i
ing taken to XIanzanillo. The generals
were Francisco Urbalejo, Jesus Tru
jillo, Fructuoso Xlendoza, Juan lian
deras and Xlanuel Bachomo. The
.Mexican officials have stated these
leaders were executed, without giving
the details.
PLUCKY SKIPPER DEAD
BOSTON. March 8. The collapsing
from exhaustion on the bridge after
fonr days battle witn a storm, i apiain
Pikthorne of the British steamer Clear !
; way, died after bringing his vessel to
port with a million dollar cargo from
Mhe Orient.
QUEEN "LIL" WAS SANE.
deceased. The suit was brought by
J Prince Cupid, delegate to the United
I Clatns Pnni'rfiau nn thf l?rnillld the'
. ....r... . -
former Queen was mentally unsound
when the deed was executed.
"V upper valleys has swollen h
streams on the outbank. Tb resi -
dence district of Hoquiam is under
eighteen inches of water which is still
rising.
t n,-
.ST i j
V-
MAY DECLARE WAR.
LONDON, March 8 Unless
the German ships, seized by
Portugal, are released, the
Portugese minister to Ger
many will receive passports
Saturday noon, according to a
dispatch to the Exchange Tel
egraph Company from Zurich,
Switzerland, which gives a re
port from Frankfort as a basis
for his statement.
GARY INDICTED
FOR STRIKE IN
III!
I
Head of U. S. Steel Corpora
tion Charged with Violation
of the Valentine Anti-Trust
Statutes.
YOU NGSTOWN, Ohio, March
8. The Mahoning county grand
jury ended in investigation of the
recent strike and riots in East
Youngstown by returning indict
ments against Elbert H. Gary,
chairman of the United States and
Big Steel companies. The indict
ments charge Gary and tliw steel
concerns with conspiracy to fix
wages aud the price of iron in
Mahoning county in violation of
the Valentine Anti-Trust Law.
"Judge Gary was indicted in
dividually," said the county pro
secutor, "because the evidence be
fore the grand jury tends to show
he is the dictator of the iron and
steen industry in the United
States."
TO BUILD BIG PLANT.
NEW YORK. March 8. A new
plant to cost $25,000 will be erect
ed at Gary, Indiana, by the United
States Steel corporation, accord
ing to an announcement by E. II.
Gary, chairman of the corpora
tion. EXPLANATION OF
VON BERNSTORFF CALLS ON
LANSING AND OFFERS ADDI
TIONAL MEMORANDUM FOR HIS
COUNTRY'S REASON.
WASHINGTON, March 8 Germany
made fu'tlier explanation to the U.
t. I w.n 1 It., talon fn r-
, . hi in- l v.'i' ivii t . ' . -. i. . ..
gard to armed merchant vessels of
the Entente Allies. Count von Bern
storff handed Secretary Lansing a
formal memorandum which after re
viewing events leading up tn the de
cision to treat armed merchant ships
as auxiliary cruisers, conceded eit
ing international law does not reeu
late the ue f th submarine inn
! indicated, a wiUinoM to mdurt
' undersea warfare accorOluc t law
prevailing at tb outbreak, of the war
I (Continued on Page )
vn uncTn
I UUI1UUI Ulf I
GERMANY'S
STAND
SAN DIE(.0 EXPO:
WARMLY WELCOMED
"-r'.r!(.-ii-S??
Y
v low.
I
REFERENDUM TO
i BE ANNOUNCED
; TODAY
' Vote Of KailTOad Men All Great Britain had added nearly 1.000.
! Over Country will Be Made 0,10 ,on"' ' her tenting line since the.
- Public in Chicago; Forecast "l!! .
that Propositions Carry.
CHICAGO. Xlarch 8. Announce-!
ment of a referendum vote of 400,000 it
railroad employes Involving every!"
road tn the countyr. or 538 different
lines, on the question of demanding
an eight hour day wiiU time al.d a
half for overtime will be made tomor
row or Friday. The vote is stated to
be overwhelmingly in favor of de-j
manding a shorter day and overtime!
pad when the present wage
agree-
ment expiies March "1.
Taking of the vote by mail
had
been in progress several month . Of
ficers, engineers, firemen, conductors:
and trainmen organizations met tO
tabulate the vote and cousider plans j
fnr nrtwfciitinp- rtmunil tn thu rail-i
roads. Union leaders conferred bp-'"r present I ongress would
hind closed doors. J fail to pvolve 8 Practical system of
It is said no announcement of the national defense. He charged that
result of the vote will be made within '"" at" and 1,0 Pursuing
forty eight hours. W. G. Lee. presi-J "moM in' m ethods in undertak
dent of the Brotherhood of Hailway in- ,n problem."
Trainmen, said: "There is little ques-i
tion but that the vote will be in favor TONGS STILL QUARREL.
of a shorter day and immediate ac-l
tion. If that is the case the railroads SAN FRANCISCO. March 8.
will be notified and given thirty days i Chinese peace conference delegates
to reply. If the demands are refused who went from h.Te recently to Port
our next move will be to call a refer-' laid, Oregon, to settle the long war.
endum strike vote. Tehre is a pro-1 were requested 'by fire to return to
sped of a strike, but there are many J straigthen out the latest outbreak in
conditions which mav arise to pre- the Chinese quarter which cost the
vent such action."
GERMAN FLEET RETURNS. j
LONDON. March 8. The big Ger-,
man fleet reported sailing westwardlj j
along the coast of Hallond. returned! NEW YORK. March S. After a de
to its base this morniug. says Router's Dale of six hours the interstate joint
Yumidien correspondent, who adds: ronference of miners and operators
"A Dutch trawler which was searched ;jn the soft coal fields of Pennsylvania
by one of the warships reports that Indiana. Ohio and Illinois, represent
ee vessels had a peculiar appearance. jnR nearly 200.000 miners, adopted a
Those carrying several funnels had.nPW waee scale contract, agreed upon
the sternmost funnel painted yellow.' Dy subcommittees. It will increas
or covered with yellow cloth, the olh-'he income of the miners about fifteen
er funnels being gray." million in the two year period the con-
' ' tract' is to run.
CLAIM ARMENIAN SLAUGHTER, j . .
LONDON. March X. The Russians; OKLAHOMA BANK LOOTED
found only sixteen Armenians alivej MUSKOGEE. Xlarch: 8. The First
in Erzerum out of the usual Armenian j N-ationM Bank 0f Vian. Oklahoma, was
population of 40.000, according to in- bbed by two masked men. They ob
formation received at Petrograd. ! flljne(j $;soo and escaped. Two bank
"Turkish inhabitants of Erzerum." . orri iais and three customers wer
the correspondent adds, "slated that locked in the vault.
a few days before the capture, all ; , .
. :.. f ... 1. , . . . n
.1
in a westerly qirection wnere iiimsj WASHINGTON. March 8. Despite
massacred them all." j tt, perils of submarine warfare 400.-
j 000 persons crossed the Atlantic be-
PREMIERS IN CONFERENCE. tween American and European ports
COPENHAGEN. March 8.-A 1 p8wniM.r,. Fisureg of the Bureau
ference of premiers and foreign min-;of NaviKlUion ,now o.-oomi ,re!,e.l
isters of Scandanavian countries su8 jin TMwel!, l(f w b,Mlir,nt!,. only
pested by the King of Sweden, will he-, 3S po0 pas,eni.,, travelW nrst ,.,as8.
gin session In the royal palate tomor-i . .
rn IT I, II 1 1 1 nfllHlfll I ! I i m III 1 1
It Is not believed that
nite program will be outlined other
than discussion of commercial diffl-
iittien shii'h have been hroueht about
by recent phases of war restrictions.
and an effort to obtain absolute con '
cert of action of these northern cnun- j dispatches from I onsul t.enerai !Kin
trie doajins with hellisarunt powr. j 0". f" Ldin. exclude til vessels e-x-OfllclftlR
at Stockbolm do not believe j ce.pl thos callinjt for examination or
as reported from Stockholm, that the belonging to allied powers, from en
contretic wtll Unrienaka discyssion j terlnc in any po. or anchorinj efT
preliminary steps towards susgesting the Shetland Islands till further
terms of peace. notice.
BILLION AND
FOR ML
Admiral Fletcher Tells House
Committee of the Enor
mous Sum Necessary to
Meet Board's Estimates.
SAYS WILL BE OVER
EIGHTEEN MONTHS
Adds it will Eventually Mean
Disarmament But That U.
S. Can Not Take This for
Granted and Not Prepare.
WASHINGTON. March 8 Approxi
mately $1,500,000,000 for new sbips
and an annual upkeep charge of $750.
ouO.O'.'O is what Admiral Fletcher, com
manding the Atlantic Fleet, estimates
it would cost to carry out the General
Board's recommendation that America
should equal .the most powerful fleet
afloat not later than 1925. The esti
mate was given a testimony before
ithe House Naval Committee.
Representative Callaway. who
broughout the statement, railed atten
tion tn the published rmxirls that
i hough' not. adding that judging by it
Irreat wealth the
United Stales could
i w ll affi rd to give its interests the
ani protection as other nations.
Fltcher thouuht the European war
1(J Md ,n a VMr ,nd a hf and Ad.
d b.,W.ved the close cf the war
IwipjUI see the greatest opportunity in
history for international disarmament.
! He insisted the United States could
not afford to put off its building pro-
gram on that account, as it was too
! vasue. The committer reached no de
'cision on the size or lyp of submar
ines to be built.
NEWLANDS PREDICTS
WASHINGTON. March S. Senator
Newlands. of Nevada, in the Senate!
I uics ill two iimeM" aim reiu iw
1 others' to a hospital.
REACH AGREEMENT
TRANS-ATLANTIC TRAVEL.
WARNED FROM SHETLAND.
WASHINGTON. March 8. The
British Admiralty orders
it is an-
j noun b' Department o
SS
