iron Bounty' Register
PUBLISHED EVERY THURSDAY.
JOB-WORK
Best equipped Job Print
, ing establishment in this
section of the State. We
insure satisfaction; prices
reasonable.
!5I r If
SUBSCRIPTION t
One Year, 1 1.50. Six Months, (0.7$.
RATES OF ADVERTISING j
. Furnished on Application. Special In-
duoementt to Home Patrons.
Address Register,' Ironton, Mo.
Stale Historical Society
F. P.'AKE, Publisher.
OUR GOD, OUR COUNTRY AND TRUTH.
TERMS 1 1. 50 Year In Advance.
TRY US.
VOLUME XLIX.
IRONTON. MO., THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1916.
NUMBER 40.
it
OUR PUBLIC FORUM
) Peter Radford
ON ADVERTISE IT IN AMERICA.
" As a citizen of this nation and one Intensely inter
ested In Its material development, I want to add my ap
proval to the "Buy It 'In America" movement Commer
cial patriotism and business pride are the foundation
stones of success in Industry and no country can become
supreme in commerce and trade unless it fosters a spirit
of friendship and partiality for its own products and insti
tutions. It is the spirit of the hive that makes the
wheels of industry turn' and each community should be
a progressive unit in our Industrial universe. All things
being equal the farmer should patronize the local mer
chant,' who is . always a good citizen, a heavy taxpayer
and friend of the farmer. The farmer sends shiploads
of raw material to foreign markets and factories that
meet on their way vessels la'den with finished and foreign
grown products coming to America. Any effort to minimize this economic
waste ought to be encouraged. ' V '."
But as a farmer and friend of the manufacturer and merchant I want to
suggest an "Advertise It in America" movement The manufacturer and
jobber may blow loud blasts on the horn of patriotism but it they will pu
an "ad" in the newspapers in their trade territory, making a business presen
tation of their goods, they will find it far more effective than waving the
Star-Spahgled Banner. The farmer is as much interested in the price of the
things he has to buy as in the price of the things he has for sale and the
advertising columns of his newspaper are'his price list. The price is the thing
and the farmer wants the figures in cold type.: The politicians give him all
the patriotic buncombe he cares for. Business enterprise is ar far more suc
cessful salesman than business patriotism. , . -
There are many most worthy organizations working to promote commerce
and trade but we seldom find organized effort to promote the press, yet it is
recognized as the most powerful agency for progress the world has ever pro
duced. , We have all sorts of days calculated to promote business and honor
industry such as Trades Days, Bargain Days, Labor Days, etc.; why not
bave a press day and all business concerns advertise the things they have
to sell and everybody subscribe for the local paper and all delinquents pay a
year in advance? There is nothing so elevating in civilization as the smile
of an editor and nothing will contribute more toward the welfare of a com
munity than the prosperity of the press. '
. The farmer is a friend and patron of the newspapers. He subscribes for
the local paper and reads every line in it and it is the best investment he
can-make. There is no news so valuable as store news; no information so
Interesting as market demands; no tragedy- so entertaining as the rise and
fall of prices and no page more closely studied by the farmer than the adver
tising columns of the press.
As to Con. Roach's Efficiency.
The members of the legislative in
vestigating committee, appointed to
examine various departments of State,
were unanimous in their findings on
the office of Secretary of State Cor
nelius Roach, now a", .candidate for
governor. After having had the as
sistance of expert accountants, the
committee said: 1 ; ,'",
"Your committee finds '. that the
clerical force employed in the office
of the Secretary of State was author
ized by law and by,9pecifio appropria
tion to coyer tie samey "and that" no
new positions have been created in
that office, or salaries raised except as
authorized by law and-by appropria
tions made to cover the same." . '.
"The total expenses of the Secre-
, tary of State's department during the
Jast full term, 1909 to 1912 ; inclusive,
were $77,000.00 less than they were
. the years 1905 to 1908 inclusive, and
the receipts during the years 1909 to
'12, inclusive were, in round numbers,
$220,000.00 greater than the term pre
ceding." , : '
"The earnings of the office of the
Secretary of State for the two years
1913 and '14 were practically' the same
($830,000.00) as the total earnings of
the office during the four years 1905
to '08 inolusive; and these practically
equal receipts (in half the time; were
obtained (by Koach) at a diminished
, expense of ?61,000.00."
"Your committee,finds and reports
that the office of the Secretary of
State is being efficiently, economical
ly and'carefully managed and conduct
ed, and that it has no suggestions to
make which it believes would make
tho service better to the public and
' for the State and at less expense than
now conducted." ' . . ;
. Signed;
Almon Ing, (Rep.) Butler Co. , .
Rich Oobbell , ( De m . ) Randolph Co.
Fbank Harr, (Rep.) Clark Co.
Fbank Fabbis, (Dem.) Phelps Co.
Noah SritPSON, (Dem.) Lewis Co. '
The Prevention of Scarlet Fever.
The papers say that the worst
epidemic of scarlet fever in the his
to'ry of Kansas is now raging in that
state. The proximity of Kansas to
Missouri makes the condition serious.
Soarlet fever is justly one of the
most dreaded diseases, of children,'
''not only because of the high death
rate, out also on account of the per-.
maiieut Injuries which are often left,
such as diseases of the heart, diseases
of the kidney, deafness, etc From 8
' to 6 years of age is the time at ( which
it is most prevalent. After 6 years
the liability declines, and by the age
,. of 15 a very marked resistance is ob
served. Nevertheless-,-ca8es occur in
grown persons. It ia.more prevalent
.in temperate Countries than in hot
'countries, and in the United States It
occurs more in the North than in
the South.' It is mostly seen in the
winter and spring, very few cases oc
curring during, the summer months.
After exposure, therer is a period
averaging from twelve to ; fourteen
days, but sometimes running longer,
before the disease declares itself. The
onset Is always abrupt, manifested
by headache, chillness, slight sore
throat, vomiting, and In young chil
dren frequently convulsions. Vomit-
.i ing is one of the most constant
symptoms, marking the onset in at
least three-fourths of all oases. . An
other characteristic sympton is the so
called strawberry tongue, the coated
tongue with the little elevation. The
eruption comes out usually on the
chest in from three to fourteen, hours
after the first symptoms, rarely long
er, and Is sometime entirely absent.
Peeling begins in from four or five
days and lasts usually from four to
five weeks. For the patient this is one
of the most dangerous periods. The
new skin is likely to be very sensitive
to changes of temperature, and it is
at this time that the development of
kidney and other troubles is likely to
occur. , . .".-,'.
..', The disease is contagious from .the
first symptoms to the last of the peel
ing. Those cases in which there are
any discharges from the ears and nos
trils are particularly dangerous. In
hospitals for contagious diseases, chil
dren are never allowed to leave as
long as any discharge can be found.
The average, time of confinement in
Buch hospitals is fifty days, conse
quently parents of children who have
contracted scarlet fever should not be
in a hurry to put their children ont,
The disease is spread most frequent
ly directly from .patient to patient,
consequently Isolation is a chief factor
in preventing its spread. Medical in
spection of schools has notable effects
in preventing the spread of scarlet
fever.'. The germ of the disease can
also be carried by clothing or any
article which has come in direct oon
tact'with the discharge of the patient,
consequently all such articles should
be thoroughly boiled or disinfected
before using again. ,
Above all things, scarlet fever
should not be trifled with, according
to Dr. M. P. Ravenel of the depart
ment of Preventive Medicine of the
University of Missouri at Columbia.
A competent physician should be call
ed at once and put in complete
charge of the case.
A Swanger-for-Qovernor club has
been organized by Jefferson City Re
publicans and a' Lamm-for-Governor
club at Sedalia. When these clubs
get under-full swing there'll be
lamming time among the Republicans
of Missouri and the - whole outfit of
of leaders will have to sing the Swan
(ger)song'. - ,
Ever Watchful.
A Little Care May Save Many
Ironton Headers Future Trouble
' Watch the kidney secretions.
See that they have the amber
hue
of health; -
The discharge not excessive or in'
frequent;
. Contain no "brick-dust like"- sedl
ment. '
Doan's Kidney Pills are especially
tor weafc kidneys. -
Let a Fredericktown citizen tell you
how they work. '
E. B. Oladieh, Minealotte Ave.,
Jbreoericktown, Mo., says: "1 had
very lame back and pains across my
kiririflvfl. Tfc bi-irfr, mn innf.nnn nr lift
and the kidnev secretions were scanty
and unnatural. Doan's Kidney Pills
relieved all these ailments."
Price: 60c, at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy get
Doan's Kidney Pills the same that
Mr. Oladish had. Foster-Miltjurn
uo., props., Buffalo, H, x,
For Sale or Lease The flues t and
beat located residence in Ironton, Mo.
suitable also for Hotel or Institution.
Splendid brick dwelling and and am
pie grounds, in prime condition; has
an unfailing spring (known as Grant
Spring; with ample water supply for
all purposes. This property hast not
only a present investment value, but
is also of historical interest. Address
H. M. Blossom, Pierce Building, St,
Louis, or trans: Munin, (ronton, mo.
Hon. J. J. Crites.
I ' . -
0
I A'Y j
Hon. Joseph J. Crites of Rolla, well
a nd favorably known in this section
of the state, is now regarded as the
democratic nominee for Lieut,
Governor. Mr. Crites iB one of the
ablest lawyers in the state and one of
the cleanest and very best citizens of
Missouri. The press in every section
of the state is paying him so far high
compliments and predict his nomina
tion without opposition. The Pierce
City Leader has the following to say
of Mr. Crites:
It is a Eonrce of gratification and no
little pride to the editor of this paper,
to note from the press of every section
of the state, especially the unanimous
voice of the press of South Missouri,
the high esteem in which our old
friend, Hon. Joseph J. Crites of Rolla,
is held by the democracy of Missouri
with reference to his candidacy for
Lieutenant Governor.
Just a year ago when Mr. Crites was
spoken of as a candidate for this
position, we predicted in the columns
of this papier, his nomination without
opposition, and we are still of that
opinion as the year just ended finds
his candidacy strongly entrenched an d
well organized with the democrats of
Missouri and his friends in every 'sect
ion of the state active in his behalf
and alert to his interests, and so we
feel sure at this time that when the
filing time comes there will be but
one candidate for this office and that
will be Mr. Crites. "
Joe Crites is big enough to hold any
office in the gift of this, common
wealth. He is capable and square al
ways; his large acquaintanee is a
valuable asset. He is a good cam
paigner and organizer and will
strengthen the ticket in many ways,'
Again he comes from a section of
the state never heretofore recognized
on the state ticket in the nearly one
hundred years of the life of this state.
But over and above, the people who
have known him all his life in his
home and adjoining counties are for
him to a man. He ought to and will
receive this nomination. He will not
only be nominated, but his election
is sure.
The Arcadia Summer Assembly.
'' (St, Louis Christian Advocate.)
This is to call the attention of the
people to the fact that the program
for the Summer Assembly at Arcadia
is now in the hands of the printers,
and they have promised that we shall
have it by April 1.
I appeal to our people throughout
the St. Louis Conference, particularly,
that they make their plans to attend
the Assembly this year. We must
have the support of the people it this
venture is a success. Our attendance
Is growing from year to year and the
place is growing more and more a
delight to those, who go. The Arcadia
Assembly is no longer on trial. We
are in the field to stay. But we want
more of oar people to get the advan
tages given there. ' '
The program varies just a little this
year from those in f ormer years, and
we think the departure will be . ap
preciated. ' ' ,
Among the speakers this year you
wiil find such as Bishop Mouzon, Drs.
Lee and Rice, Hon. Chas. M. Hay,
Rev. M. N. Waldrip, Dr. Jno. M:
Moore and Mrs. Nellie G. Burger.
Barroll's Orchestra will give us two
concerts.. You will travel a long way
to find a better bunch of musicians
than you will see in this orchestra.
Dr. and Mrs. Henry will assume re
sponsibility for the dining hall this
year. This will ; insure wholesome
food and well served, The expenses
will be the very lowest possible. You
good people see that your pastor gets
there. Yoq could well afford to send
him. The inspiration he gets will be
brought back to you and will pay ;ou
a tnousana toia. urten times we
preachers are dull. We know it. As
the Lord's reapers we need something
that will put a keen edge on our
blade, Arcadia will do this for your
pastpr. Invest a little in it and try it.
, There will be some new cottages to
greet ns when we go up this year.
Let others build. Do not be afraid of
the permanence of this Assembly t We
cannot afford to quit.
Write to Rev. N. B. Henry, Arcadia,
Mo., for any particulars.
Now, brother pastor, when you get
your package of programs do not let
them find a place in the waste bas
ket. Get them out among the people.
If they do not go it will do them good
to read them anyway.
R. L. Russel.
John Mangold.
(From the Poplar Bluff Republican.) ' i
Tuesday morning the body of the
late John Mangold, who died last Fri
day night in Harviell, was brought to
Poplar Bluff, and the funeral held from
the Catholic church, with Rev. Father
Frank Adrain celebrant of the solemn
high mass.
There was a large attendance ; of
the family, and the body was laid to
rest in the family vault in the Catholic
cemetery. , '
The pallbearers were D. W. Hill,
M. O. Horton, J. W. Berry man, D. L.
Burnside, D. P. Martinie, James Glen
denning, J. W. Pennington and Henry
Jeffords. The, residents of Poplar
Bluff went to Harviell on the Frisco
Tuesday morning, and a large dele
gation from Harviel accompanied the
body and the funeral party to Poplar
Bluff on train No. 22, the body being
taken from the station to the church
for the funeral services, which, was
accompanied by' the regular burial
service at the entrance to the vault.
There was a profusion of flowers
from St. Louis, the home of the Man
golds, which were sent by express by
friends of his, he being one of the
wealthy men of that city, being rated
as a millionaire. ','
John Mangold: has large property
interest's around Harviel and has been
spending' considerable of his time
looking after hit, business there. He
has not been in good health for some
time and has suffered several strokes
of paralysis, the last one at 9:50 Fri
day night, which resulted in his
death a half hour later, with his wife
by his side. . ;
Althought he has large holdings in
the city of St. Louis, where his fam
ily has lived in Style for many years,
he has given personal attention to his
mammoth business in Harviell for
over twenty years. . ;
He was fifty-seven years, eleven
months and twenty-one days of age
and is survived by the following chil
dren: Mrs. Schacb, and the Misses,
May, Pearl and Myrtle Mangold, with
one son, Frank. ,
Mrs. Thomas llotson.
(From the Milwaukee Sentinel.)
In the city of Norfolk, England, in
the year 1829, two children, a boy and
a girl, were born in bouses on the
same street and but three houses
apart. The girl, Esther Guttridge,
was born in April and the boy, Thomas
Hotson, was born in Deoember. They
grew up as children became lovers
and were married in October, 1849,
when each was 20 years of age. For
67 years they lived happily together
and death claimed them both almost
within a month of each other, he dy
ing on January 5th and she passed
away this morning in their old home
in Lyle township where they had liv
ed for over a half century.
It was in October, 1854, that Mr. and
Mrs. Thomas Hotson came to Amer
ica; with them was their son Atken,
now secretary of the Mower County
Farmers' Mutual Insurance Company,
and a little daughter a year and five
months old. It was a long journey in
a sailing ship in those days and when
the little girl died, far out at sea, the
body had to be consigned to the deep
; Landing at Louisiana the family re
mained there but a short time and
then went to St. Louis where Mr. Hot
son worked in a roller mill- They
then went to IllinoiB where he man
aged a briok yard and came to Lyle
township in 1802. Here in a pre
emption shanty they made their home
until the new house was built. Mr.
Hotson was striken with. a chill on
New Years day and died on the fifth
of January. Mrs, Hotson was taken
with the grip and for nine weeks was
confined to her bed. "She was con
scious up to within a few minutes of
her death and was surrounded by all
her children except Thomas, who re
sides in North Dakota,
Five children are living, Atkin and
Mrs. Elmer Kneeskern of Austin,
Fred and William of Lyle and Thomas
of North Dakota.
The funeral will be held Wednesday
afternoon at 1 o'clock from her late
home. Burial will be at Enterprise
cemetery.
"A true, noble woman of Christian
character has gone," say all who knew
her. "A good mother has gone," say
her children. Further would be but
words to convey the same meaning.
The romance begun in an English vil
age 87 years ago closed In Lyle town
ship when this splendid type of a
woman closed her eyes in her last
sleep. ,. v '' .' ; .,,';',
Regarding Overtime.
Brotherhood officials explain that
they are not demanding a maximum
workday of eight hours, as commonly
understood. They admit the physical
difficulties in regulating the operation
of freight trains, as may be done the
machinery in a Bhop or factory. Rail
road crews cannot, stop when the
whistle blows, as can blacksmiths and
boilormakers, Bo the railroad men lay
A Tremendous Cut in Prices of
Winter
Ladies' Long Coats Men's Overcoats.
Price $4.00, Cut to . . $2.00 $4.5:0, Cut to .... $2.80
" C.oo, Cut to . . . j.oo 5.00, Cut to . . . . 3.00
" 6.0, Cut to . . 3.75' 6.00, Cut to . - . . 3.95;
" 8.50, Cut to . . . .00 8.00, Cut to . . . . ' 5.00
", 9.6b, Cut to , . J-?o 10.00, Cut to . . . J.o
" 10.00, " . . . 5.9 12.00, Cut to . . . . 7.5"0
Child's Coats Boys' Overcoats
$1.95, Cut to - - - $1.25 $2.85, Cut to - - - $1.85
2.00 " - - - - 1.25 3-25 " - - - - 2.00
j:l:d at -to i:S Blankets GreatCut in Price!
Men's Dress Shirts Ladies' Winter Waists
75c and $1.00 Shirts Cut to - 49c $1'2 Cnt to " ' ' ' 75c
All Sizes Great Bargains Men's, Women's and Children's Warm CLOVES, ioc
Ladies' and Misses' Sweaters
Fine Wool Sweaters
Genuine German Dyes
Prices $2.25 and $2.50, Cut to 75c.
Come and "sea oi FELT. BOOTS, RUBBERS, SHOES, WARM UNDER
WEAR, ETC. "W& Absolutely Can Save You Mouey."
Ironton,
Mo.
that what they are asking for is a
"basic" eight-hour day, which would
permit an employe to work any num
ber of hours, provided he is paid a
rate of time and one-half after the ex
piration of eight hours of continuous
service.
The difference between an eight-
hour workday and an eight-hour
"basic" workday is explained by an
international officer of the Brother
hood of Railroad Trainmen in the
January issue of its official journal.
Speaking of the "basic" eight-hour
day he says it "contemplatas that
eight hours shall be the basis for a
day's work and any time in excess
thereof Bhall be paid for as overtime,
consequently under such a provision
there iB no limit to the hours work
ed." This appears to be a distinction
without a difference. Only one inter
pretation can be placed upon the
statement. The payment of overtime
rates is the primary object sought;
the reduction in hours being second
ary, it is an indirect metnoa 01 seed
ing a wage Increase, rather than a
direct method of seeking a reduction
in hours, ' V
Under ordinary circumstances a pen
alty rate on overtime has the effect
of eliminating it or reducing it to a
minimum. That is the reason why
labor unions generally place a premi
um on overtime. It is doubtful if such
a plan applied to railroad operation
will minimize overtime; certainly it
will not eliminate it. Ex.
TUT! Toftl YFonder enrea kidney and
bladder troubles, dissolves travel, enreg
diabetes, weak and lame backs, rheuma
tism and all irreRularities or the kidneysand
bladder in both men arid women. If not sold
by yourdruitclst, will lie sent by mall on re
ceipt of Si. One smnll bottle Is two months'
treatment and seldom fails to perfoetkeure.
Send for tectiiuonlals from this and other
States. Dr. E. W. Hall, SSB8 Olivo Street,
fit. Louis, Mo. Sold by ciruKKlstu. Adv.
Men's Overooata cut down as low as
$2.80 at Brown's.
NANNIE WALKER
A cknoWledqments taken, Deeds of
A all kinds written, and other Legal
Papers prepared, Copyingon Type
writer eolioited. Will, be . found at
home, north of brick hotel, corner of
Shepherd and Wayne etre'ets,
V"3SXv WEX AS WONDER y
IVM
iWonderful Bargains!
The Republic
Searched tne Country and Bought the Best in
NEW ,:PSS FUN
Polly and Her Pals
-
Buster Brown
That Son-in-Law of Pa's
Dimples Just Boy
5 Full Page Comics 5
TEN PAGES OF SPECIAL FEATURES
Artioles on world topics written by the greatest thinkers and lead
ers in war, science, industry, finance, art and literature. Authoritative
articles on the latest fashions, illustrated by high priced specialists.
Two pages of features carefully selected for children.
TEN PAGES OF POPULAR FICTION
The best magazine published by any newspape In the United
States. The writers are world famous. Excellently illustrated four
pages in colors printed on book paper. The "Teenie Weenies" Is the
best feature to be secured for the entertainment of small children.
Next Sunday in
The Sunday Republic
Best in News, Features, Fun and Fiction
iDo You deed a Wagon?!
g I can furnish you a Wagon, Surrey, Buggy, or ?I?
jj Spring Wagoif j Guaranteed to Do Good
tj; Service, at Reasonable Charge.
Phone 304. JOHN E. KUHN, Arcadia, Slo.
ti?vlH? tI?tlH??IifIHf if? w i? ilHlt tj? ?I? tt?tlii? tjt ti? tfi H?
Chattel Mortgages, Warranty
Goods
and Trust Deeds' a this oiTico
