I
S3" "W?i
ASHLAN
,nr
"Ashland Grows While Llthla flows"
Ctty of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon. LithJa Springs -"Oregon's
famous Spa'
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1916
NUMBER 83
it ttx -h- t 'A
r
Third Policeman
Added to Force
After a half hour of heated argu
ment, a third policeman was added
to the Ashland police force by the
mayor and approved by the council
Tuesday evening.
Change in Time
Of No. 53 Rumored
Ashland Will Re-Organize Its
Schools on the Six-and-Six Plan
Board of Viewers
For Billings Hill
It is rumored that train 53, which
now passes through Ashland at about
3 a. m., will have Its schedule
-I 1 .1 lit HHl.rA Iiiia 1 .
Lnmifceu , "C,D "Tithe school board, at a special meet-1 lor high school will, for the present, ; nws and Kasollne devouring steep
11 p. in. this win give an eariy i , . , ...... . i .i . nna ihDi.mj n ...h. ...o,in,i
Tfie nil'lngs hill matter Is up
After considering the six-and-slx held in both the east and west sldo aEaln- Renewed activity In getting
plan of schools for practically a year, buildings. The intermediate or Jun- the ha" mlIe of tire-eating rough
Beet Factory at
Medford This Year
Medford Sun: According to tele
grams received in Medford Friday by
the beet sugar committee of the Com
mercial Club, Medford will have a
I in? liplri Miin.h s iqk An,.Ar,A in ; i, In fl .,- .1,1. ,!.. . noss chanced into ft eentlv crndpil. !. ,....... i m.,. .u
The force was reduced to two men morning train out of Poitland. Vn-rnnrn. ,..,. ,..v , 1)flVe(i hlL'hw.v i. ...P..rd w th. ,. . . .
..... v,,!. ot,uuuD mat. mc ntinwi "BU OUUUUJ will CUUlinUO ---n-- .- ... .... luijillll-u uchthw ih rtii:t;iveri aeecond
the first of the year as an economical i der the present system No. 11 fol-1 j)a(.g
move. Tne mayor stated tnat tno, lows .No. e3 Dy oiuy mree nours, anu
work had proven to be too great for I by making the change train 53 wl.l
Under this plan six years will be
two men. The patroling of the busi-1 arrive about halfway between No. 15, : dovote(I to stri(,tl-v grade work, three
j . V 11 C. hA .. . . 1. V 9 , 1L.
ness section which 1b scattered out
over many blocks, the handling of
the hobo problem which necessitates
the presence of a man at the depot,
a quarter of a mile from the police
station, when all trains both freight
and passenger arrive, and the patrol
ing of the parks, demand the services
of another officer and the mayor as
head of the police department Inti
mated that he wou'd appoint a spe
cial officer to assist in the work under
his perogative to do so given by the
charter If the council refused to con-
..i,i..h t.. Wo flt 4-50 n. m.. nd ,;ttrs 10 i"e worn emoracea in tne
the Shasta Limited. Intermediate or junior high school,
The change is to take effect in 1 and three 'ears to the worl of the
about two weeks. The new time-' 8onlor blKh scho1- In the Jnlor
table will afford better local connec- j 88 we" 88 the 8ell,or hlgh school da
tions In the valley and especially ' lartnental teaching will provide
In the new high school building. aPI'o'ntment of a board of viewers at beet sugar factory will be erected
No pupils will be withdrawn from ' a mpvtlnS of the county court Mon- j near Medford in 1917.
the present high school building but i
day.
from Medford to Ashland.
Council Busy
Until Midnight
The city council met in Its first
Thts ohpprfncr nnnrtnnppmnnt la ih
the ninth year pupils for September, I 1 "",u-v """or ur". B-1 result of a quiet but persistent cam.
1916, will continue to attend the jun- "t,4'80r JmK irue- anfl u' ''owe ! palgn by the beet sugar committee ot
ior high school at the west side build- j were am,olnted vlewerS to go over the Me(Irord Commercial Club, which,
Ing. the ''ro',0!",d ro,,te for tne a'le P haa been carrlod lln nn(.easinK,y slnoa
The courses In vocational work will
better Instruction for the pupils, en
abling them to save time and ac
comp'ish more by permitting them to
select work along the line best suited
to the special needs of each. - Promo-
it ...Ml V. l. 1 i , ..! i
nuns vun ue uy suujecis, mug me re- of work which he has decided to make
peating of studies where one has be-1 his life occupation.
the hill. They will go over the routo
be greatly strengthened dur ng the . . ...
.i i.i. j , . b pronounce upon Its feasibility and
seventh, eighth, and ninth years of . ,
. , . . .. award damage, if anv.
the school work. In this trial period J
the pupi! will find himself so that
upon entrance to the senior high MarCll IVIeet Of
&CUUU1 lie "tt ill uut:e pursue wie line
.firm his appointment of a regular! seSB,on Tuesday evenln, at m!lnnircnl .
man I e ' '
come reasonably proficient ;'wlll be
saved to the pupil and to tli school
Councllmen Banta and Root held
that while a third man might be nec
essary later when the parks needed
more patroling, that action should be
7:30, with all beads and about a
dozen citizens being in the hall.
The minutes of the last regular
meeting and a special meeting were
dpfprrprf fin .nl. AW0f T oml. i fead 8nd approved.
lr, , , ... .. ' The report of the recorder for the
and Cornelius stood with the mayor, ' , . x. ,
xtii. i . in. i . month of February, the monthly re
Nlnlnger, Root and Banta against. I . , , ' .
. , ,. . ,,, . port of the Springs Water commis
The mayor having the deciding vote 1 ,
tv, .. i j i, . slon. Park comm sslon, street com-
the matter received Immediate atten-; ' , . ,
missioner, waier Buperuiienueui, anu
tion. The mayor appointed V. J.
Carpenter and the appointment was
confirmed by the same vote, the
mayor casting the deciding vote con
urming his own appointment
tirade schools, the first six years
tk the course as now known, will be
Crew Finds Few
Leaks in Pipe
Fortunately, the west side building
lends Itself to the new plan without '
any modification as it was originally 'regular mouth y session Monday even
built for the accommodation of the ing with a good attendance present.
city high school.
the breaking off of diplomatic rela
tions with the Bishop Nibley Inter
ests. The texts of the telegrams were
not made public, nor has It been an
nounced Just what interests are bo
hind the new enterprise, but In the
opinion of the members of the comr
mlttee all doubt concerning the erec
tion of a beet BUgnr factory at tha
The Commercial Club met In its Medford end of the valley this year
Commercial Club
has been removed.
The telegram promising the con-
4 f .1. i ... . . 1 . . . ... . .
iniirr iiib regular routine nusiness siruction or tne factory was recelvea
had been attended to, Mr. Carnon, for j from S. K. Skllrlr of Salt Lake City,
the Industrial committee, reporting now In New York, and it Is believed
on the cannery proposlt'on, said that that he represents tho Hnvenioyer
they had had several meetings' and Interests. According to the telegram,
had decided on a plan of action i beet seed for 7,000 acres has been
which they would start on In a few secured, and nil that Is asked Is a
j days, the plan being to revive the old ! guarantee of 5,000 acres. Persona
A. N. Ililderbrand was in Ashland cannery here and put the same In Cose to the negotiations declare
Tuesday looking after his political working condition. lie stated that i bonds assuring this acreage have al-
A. N. Kildeibrand
For County Clerk
The mineral water pipe lines are
,,uCi rwui. oujici luicuucni, , being gone orer for leaks and a few
read and approved. , j fences. He Is a candidate for conn- Mr. Rand of the Fruit Association wn reiulv linen nlml.l
luuim, whiuii aie ueiug u.eu. AC- " 1
i iy cierK on uie repuuncan ucKei. ne working with them and thev would The machinery for the factory Is
came to Jackson county six years ago have more to report at the next meet- now In San Francisco, according to
Several transfers of funds were j
authorized. The time checks were
nuns ins own appointment. - , takes three to four months to settle - - . ., ,,. nl , , lm;,-i- ,,, ouu , ,, ,,, uituiuuik k
Argument between the mayor and enumerated and approved. The reg-; ' t from Washington and has been con- Ing. Mr. Carson stated that It was report, the site will be between Mod-
Councilman Banta grew warm at:u ar ullls were a"owea ana a sum
times. Mr. Banta stated that he had , approximating $200 due on a mort
received more commendation for hlsBa?e ordered paid,
work in reducing the police force than The sexton was authorized to hire
for any act since he had been on the a man t0 asslst ln cleaning up the
council. The mavor remarked that ! cemetery prior to Decoration day.
a certain e'ement would praise him
If he had the force cut down to none
at all. Mr. Banta was considerably
aroused by this and stated that It was
Influential, respectable citizens who
had praised him.
While shady reflections were cast
on past police forces by both sides
the present force was conceded to be
composed of conscientious men who
J. W. Milner petitioned that the
council attend to putting a top on
the septic tank for the Norma?, stat
ing that the top had fallen in. The
matter was referred to the board of
health.
C. J. Foster, who negotiated with
the city last month relative to the
purchase of the triangle lot at the
corner of the Boulevard and Iowa
and soak up, and leaks may be ex
pected to spring in that time, but
after the pipe once becomes settltft
the mineral water mains will give no
more trouble than any other kind of
pipe. Any wood pipe springs leaks
until It becomes settled, and the same
troub'e was experienced with the
wood pipe In the city water mains at .
nrst.
nected with the Jackson County the policy of the committee to stay ! ford and Tolo, and construction work
bank, the Medford Lumber company, ! with one matter until they had eith-' will start in a very few weeks,
and the Medford Sash and Door faC- er failed or accomplished their end. I Colonel J. F. Mundy has been Influ
tory as bookkeeper and accountant. They were comp'lmented on this trait ' entlal In bringing the negotiations to
He has ha-I fifteen years' experi- an3 asked to continue their activl- a successful conclusion, and It Is re
ported the complete transaction In
volves many developments In addi-
have been putting In a good deal over street, has decided to postpone taki
twelve hours a day of hard work j ine the nronertv but according to
Stockmen's Board
Met Wednesday
since the force was reduced.
Annual Inspection
The advisory board of the Dead
Indian Stockmen's Association met
a report of the Realty committee had Wednesday morning in the Commer
stated that later on he might buy cial Club rooms to discuss range and
the property under the terms offered.
ftf Pi'ffff rAtnninii M- n Pinion was hired at a salary
$20 a month to care for the grass
and trees in Mountain View ceme
tery. The rest room matter was thrash-
A general
First Lieutenant Willis Shlppan,
U. S. A., was inspecting officer at
the annual inspection of the Ashland , ed as elsewhere reported
Coast Artillery Corps company last ! discussion of various matters occu
Monday night. Captain Vance and j pled several minutes and a letter
Lieutenants Foss and Deuel of the j concerning bonds and offering to
Medford company were also present. make a saving In Interest was re
stock matters. George Owens Is
president of tbe association and Fred
Nell secretary. George Nichols, Fred
Furry, Joe Rader and John Murphy
are the other members of the advis
ory board. On the lath the board
wi'l meet with government officials
at Medford to arrange for grazing
permits in the national forest and
I discuss other matters.
ence in auditing and bookkeeping, ties.
He is making his campaign on the Mr. Carson also spoke of an evap-
ground of his fitness for the place, ; orating concern which Mr. Rand had j tion to the beet sugar enterprise,
and says he can conduct the office ' investigated while on a trip north, i Definite announcements of a far
with as great efficiency and economy , a"d over which the committee were reaching nature may be expected in
as anybody.
S. P. Engineers Will
v Inspect Plant
At the solicitation of the springs
water commission the Southern Pa-
very enthusiastic, but was unable to the next few weeks,
give the details of the proposition
which they had made the committee,
they being In the hands of Mr. Dill.
They were instructed to further in
vestigate the proposition and bring
before the club at the next meeting.
President Smith appointed the for
lowlng members of the Commercial
R.R. Held Blameless
For Auto's Flight
Forty-three members of the com
pany were present and gave a good
account of themselves In drill, artil1
lery practice and condition of equip
ment. While no" official statement
was given out by the inspecting of
ficer, he was very well pleased with
the condition of the local armory and
equipment and personnel of the com
pany.
There are now slxty-s'x men en
rolled In the company and an active
campaign will be waged to raise the
enrollment to its fullest capacity.
The general character of the local
eompany has been raised until now it
Is on a very high plane. Financially
the company is In excellent condition,
having paid off a'l debts and having
a year's allowance at hand with
which to make improvements.
Lieutenant Shlppan will Jiereafter
be the instructing officer for the
southern Oregon companies, taking
the place of Captain Collins, who has
been assigned to a post in Washington.
Laying New Main
On Granite Street
A crew of fifteen men is no at
work laying the new water main on I the orchard.
ferred to the finance committee.
The council debated for some time
the advisability of asking Springs
Commissioner Frank Jordan to fur
nlsh $10,000, but finally decided that
$5,000 would be a sufficient amount
in view of existing conditions.
Councilman Banta stated that he
had inspected some private septic
tanks In the northern part of the
city and believed that it would be
necessary to put in a sewer to that
part of the city, and moved that the
matter he referred" to the sanitary
and street committee Tor investiga
tion and report.
Two houses on Holly street which
are not connected to the sewer were
mentioned and the council voted to
inform the owners that the proper
ties must be connected up.
The alignment and width of C
street are in a muddled state, ac
cording to Mr. Root, and the straight
ening out of the lines was put up
to the street committee and city en
gineer. It seems that the orchard on the
Praytor place up the canyon which
is the city's property Is in bad con
dition and if not cared for will be
cut down by the county fruit inspec
tors. In view of this the Realty
committee was Instructed to care for
State Health Men
WiU Go Over Plant
lTpon Invitation of the springs wa
ter commission, a representative of
the state board of health will be here
on the 12th or 13th of this month to
inspect the mineral water plant. Ru
mors that the pipes are unsanitary
have been circulated, and while
deemed to be groundless, it Is
thought best to have the state offi
cials go over the plant and get the
seal of their approval.
engineers during the coming week to
inspect the mineral water plant and
consult with the commission's en
gineers in regard to it. At all times
in the development of the Ashland
project the Southern Pacific Com-,
pany has given their fullest co opera
tion and sends their engineers as a
further token of their interest in
Ash and's future. i
Butler-Perozzi
Fountain Is Here
Granite street. The new main will
extend from Nutley street to the low
er intake and will consist of 3,600
feet of 13-lnch steel main and 600
feet of 12-inch wood main. Water
Superintendent Hosier estimates that
several weeks will be needed to get
the main in.
A gold mill 1s to be erected four
miles from Redmond, at Cllne Falls,
Ore.
Marshfleld is to get a $7,500 fruit
and vegetable cannery.
The matter of lands on Park av
enue for which the city has an' op
tion was referred to the council as
a committee of the whole. The city
has already paid $1000 down on the
lands and the question of whether
the options should be forfeited' will
be investigated.
Arrangements were made whereby
the firemen will receive one day off
duty each week.
A third policeman was appointed
as elsewhere reported, and the ses
sion adjourned at three minutes be
fore midnight.
The magnificent fountain which
will be erected near the Granite
street entrance in Lithia park by
Messrs. Perozzl and Butler has ar
rived in Ashland and Is now at the
local freight depot awaiting the ar
rival of an expert who will Install it.
The fountain is a large affair and
comes knocked down and crated. It
weighs 12,000 pounds and will re
quire at least three trucks to cart it
to the site in the park. The site is
on the hillside above the fountain
plaza. A huge cement base has been
put in and Is ready for the finishing
up and installation of the fountain.
The fountain Is of Verona marble
and is surmounted by a cupid and
swan. It Is the work of an Italian
sculptor and was one of the notable
exhibits of Italian sculpture at the
Panama-Paclflo exposition, where it
was first seen by Mr. Butler and Mr,
Perozzl and later purchased.
Plnh tn rnnrnunnt tlin nlttlt nn tha
clfic Company will send one or two ,,,, ... ' , .
. . .. . celebration committee: Frark Jor
dan, II. O. Frohbnch and D. I). Nor-ris.
There being no new business, It
was suggested by Henry Fnders that ;
the meeting be turned into a sort of !
love feast or testimonial meeting,
and the springs proposition be (lis- j
cussed. Frank Jordan, one of the ;
springs water commissioners, being:
present, was called on to explain the j
; present status of the matter. Mr.!
Final GaiTIfiS Of ' Jordan explained by stating that he
lucu uauij ui j would be Rlad to nilHWer Bny niu,8.
UPTIM TIlIC XPPfr , tiens which he could. These ques
JGllCd llilO WCCtt ttons brought some Interesting facts
to the surface, on which the public
The biggest advance seat sale of'has been niisinformed, and which Is
the year is reported for the final , ca,lsl,lg 80 n,u,;n "necessary evil
game of the Medford-Ashland foot-1 among lne ommiers. i ne main
ball series which will be played in "0l,lts l)rolK"t 0,lt were th,lt there
the local high school gymnasium Sat-1 8re very ,ew ,eaKS ln lne D",e "ne'
urday night. A bigger crowd than thnt the lithla ls entlsfactory and
last Saturday's is anticipated. The nnlng In the park again, and that
management has asked ns to renuest """ i.uu. ...a ,..,,-
all who have reserved tickets at Rose sition at t,,e presfitlt ti,,le 18 the
Brothers' to get them before 6 , Do(,Ke B0(ia- and wllich ls beins lnV
o'clork Saturday evening, as the vest,atei1 at 1,118 llme- 11 WM a!B0
crush at the door will not allow ot bro"eht out that the many sult8 for
sorting out tickets and no tickets mW hih have been quite a
will be held.
topic of conversation for the curb
Medford is counting confidently Btolle meetings, have dwindled down
on winning Friday evening's game!to nothlns an(1 are belng Eettled raP"
and is practicing on a small floor ' and at very nominal flg,lres
space In order to get in shape for the Mr- Jor(lan stated that tne I)lant wns
Ashland floor. The loca's are a lit- in cllal'Ke of a emPetent engineer
tie overconfident, but if they get from Portland; that the waters were
their basket eyes will give the Med
being analyzed by the Agricultural
fnrrt team a hnM wi Pri.inv. a , College at Corvallls, and that report
big delegation will go down in cars on 8ame coum P M had with
for the game.
Arrest Speeders
On the Highway
A "soilless" corporation got a fav
orable verdict from a jury or 12 Jack
son comity men In the circuit court
at the county seat Mondav. Robert
I lla'lcy instituted proceedings against
the Southern Pacific Railroad com
pany to recover the price of an almost
j new Dodge car, which got stuck on
; the track at the Voorhels crossing?
, last fall and was gi.ntly lifted Into
' nn adjoining field by n fast freight.
Miss Gladys Wilson was driving tha
car, the engine went dead at the
crossing, and the fair driver was un
able to get it off the rails before tha
freight struck It.
The plaintiff contended thnt tho in
difference of the train crew resulted
In the machine's skyward flight and
subsequent scattering over the land
scape. The railroad showed that it
was not posslblo to stop the train Ini
time to prevent a collision and tha
jury arrived at the conclusion that
the railroad was right.
In two other suits the rnllroad
fared not so well.
A verdict In favor of Mick Walsh
for $187 for personal Injuries was
given Tuesday, the plaintiff asking
for $2500. Walsh alleged that ha
sustained permanent Injuries whlla
riding In a caboose, while In chnrga
of a stock shipment, owing to tha
sudden starting of tho train.
In the suit of L. Droslus of Gold
III11 against the company, a compro
mise was reached, by which Mr. Dro
slus will receive $800. Ills hand was
Injured. The settlement was nffocted
through Claim Agent Fred Day of the
company and the attorney. It Is ex
pected to be ratified by the head of
ficers of the company today.
In thirty days. Mr. Jordan stated
I that he thought the people should In
vestigate these matters for them
selves before making statements to
others, and be sure they are right.
At the conclusion of the discussion
it was moved that the matter should
be discussed at the next meeting of
An active campaign against speed-, the club, and any one having ques-
ers on the Pacific Highway between 1 tlons to ask regarding the springs or
Ashland and Medford has been lnstf-, plant be on hand. Motion was sec- tion voted to contribute $175 toward
Elks Contribute
For Celebration
At last Saturday evening's meet
ing of the Elks club, that organlza-
The dish towel may be condemned
as unsanitary, but the girls can still
use their aprons.
tuted by county officials, and at least onded and carried
three autolsts were arrested yester
day who were exceeding the twenty
five miles an hour allowed under the
law. Officers riding ln private cars
time the speeders, and many more ar
rests are likely to be forthcoming.
It has been announced that where
drivers have not a sufficient amount
of "cash on hand" to meet the fine
imposed, a jail sentence- will be the
result.
Montague Messenger: Report
comes from Little Shasta that some
one has broken into the houses of
Miss Mabel Russell and Len Boyd,
ransacking the places and carrying
away much valuable property. Peo
ple ln the neighborhood have a strong
suspicion as to the guilty parties and
It is expected that they will soon be
brought to account for their actions.
the Dedication Celebration of July 4,
5 and 6. The Elks will also get be
hind the celebration with all the
force of their progressive spirit.
Astoria may be the home port for
the Oriental steamer line of eleven
ships, assets $9,500,000.
Those who live above their circum
stances ln a little while hare to
"Never- Never-Land."
