PI1ES I I3ENT 4 S OFFICE
UEHEA COLLEGE
HEUEA KY
- t:Mi
The citizen
Devoted to ttie Intereata of tlie oxxitalri People
EX&EA PUBLISHING CO.
(IHCOftmKATBD)
. WM. G. mot T, UkrMVM
C. h. wtirrrNBMGUt . uim
P. O. BOWMAN, AnlHiM Muw
Knowledge it power end irm
way to keep up with modern
knowledge Is to read good
newspaper.
Vol. XVII.
Five Cent a Copy.
RKfiFA. MADISON COUNTY. KF.NTVCKY. MARCH 0, Ifllri
One Dollar a Year.
No. 37.
'V)
Patriotism
A nation is made jjreat not by its fruitful acres, but by
the men who cultivate them; not by its great forests, but
by the men who use them; not by its mine, but by the
men who work in them; not by its railways, but by the
men who build and run them. America was a p;rrat
land when Columbus, discovered it; Americans have
made of it a great Nation.
In 1776 our fathers had a vision of a new Nation
'"conceived in lilierty and dedicated to the projosition
that all men are created equal." Without an army
they fought the greatest of existing world empires that
they miht realize this vision. A third of a century later,
without a navy they fought the greatest navy in the
world that they might win for their Nation the freedom of
the seas. Half a century later they fought through an
unparalleled Civil War that they might establish for all
time on this continent the inalienable right of life, lilwrty,
and the pursuit of happiness. A third of a century later
they fought to emancipate an oppressed neighbor, and,
victory won, gave back Cuba to the Cubans, sent an
army of schoolmasters to educate for lilwrty the Fili
pinos, asked no war indemnity from their vanquished
enemy, but paid him lilerally for his" property. Mean
while they offered land freely to any farmer who would
live upon and cultivate it, o)ened to foreign immigrants
on equal terms the door of industrial opportunity, shared
with them political equality, and provided by universal
taxation for universal education.
The cynic who can we in this history only a theme
for his egotistical satire is no true American, whatever
his parentage, whatever his birthplace. He who looks
with pride uxn this history which his fathers have
written bv their heroic deeds, who accepts with gratitude
the inheritance which they have bequeathed to him, and
who highly resolves to preserve this inheritance unimpair
ed and to pass it on to his descendants enlarged and en
riched, is a true American, Ik his birthplace or his parent
age what it may.
Lyman Abbott.
KNOXVILLE BOARD OF TRADE TO
VISIT rORTT-THREE TOWNS
One hundred Knoxville business
men will visit sections of Kentucky,
rWih Carolina, Virginia, and F.at rial and the personal contact fea
Tennesse between April II and It. lures are rmsidered the most Im-
Hiut parly will n-present all of the
Miisl nomnierrlal and industrial
organiraiions in Knoxville. Manu
facturers tankers, wholesalers, re
tailers and professional men have
rrange to go on Knoxville'i first
trade trip. A sperfal train will be
M-cured to accomiuiHlate the KnoT-
vil e trad) btliM r. The committee
in chanro has announced that every ! This band will number about twen -
rffort will made M make the tripjy-llve pieces and is considered one
of mutual advantage to business of the best organizations of its kind 1 Hl"1,,'t Kives financial and dom
men of Knoxville and the business j in East Tennessee. No expense ls!,sti,, Mlinn" f,,r withdrawing his
men of the forty-three towns which 'being spared by the Knoxville Hoard r,,m1 "t against James P. Lewis
will be visited. The Knoxville 'of Commerce to make this trip suc-jwl"' w,m for Secn-tary of State. It is
IViard of Commerce has arranged cessful in every detail. Committees ; t,mt tne Democratic party
the tour so that the members may! have been appointed to arrange fori'1 ",rown t,,wn because his
come in personal touch with the the special train, the band, and other ,"u1'"'1 otn, fam" vory nPar
business men throughout Knox special features of the excursion, 'J,'f,'t""K "dire ticket last year
ville'a trmle territory. One of the,
Irwiin'i at I ho narlv la "Hot Ac.
ouainleil." i
The personnel of the party is made
up of tho most prominent men of
Knoxville. Practically every big
enterprise in that city has signified tors from the local "boosters" in the
its intention of having a representa-i towns visited and is calculated to
Iiva niultA IIia fnivi Hfiva trln nn the'iiiaWa An imnraiiiitnn nhpat,a. .aam
..... ...i.. .... .-. .
special train. Committees in the!
towns to lie visaed are planning,
novel ways to get acquainted in the ,
shortest lime. The Knoxville Com-1
nuttee are delighted with the en-
thusiasin which the announcement
of the trade trip schedule has cre-lieve that by getting acquainted
ated. Every effort Is being made by their circle of friends will be wid
them to cooperate with the local ened, their business increased and
trade bodies in their entertainment their past and prospective patrons
plans, so that the trip may be of mu- plaoed in a friendly relationship,
tual profit and pleasure. I which would be impossible without
Tho committee in charge are en-'knowing them individually.
CONTENTS
PAGE 't.-KditoriuJ: Patriotism.)
Knoxville Hoard of Trade to visit
FiMty-three Towns. Our Own
State News. United State News.
World and War News.
PACE J. Departmental Columns.
PAGE 3. Serial: The Forester's
Daughter. Story: After Kid
Mulligan. Comic Pictures.
PAGE 4.-Locals.
PAGE 5j-Ical News
Articles.
Poem: Them Chickens. County Agent Spenee can tel'
PAGE 6-Mouiitain Agriculture: y,nt a" Bno"t t ni will be glad to
Kan Jose Campa gn. Sanitation "ve vo" raJI "'" "P. R"ad his ar-
in the Control of Hog Cholera. on mn far,n page of this Issue.
Tabulation of results of the Use '
of Anti-ll. Cholera Serum In Now , , good Ume to think ,n(J
if " 'C I 1 ? MOn u f Ulk f roads when the majorl
IVcemoer, ll-incnmati Mar. tv nf ,. riA. , ..Jz.,
kel..-Ho,ne Department: Eggs.
For Young Folks: Little Bel-
' v 1, t.. " "7 lustrations. The Vocational column
Time-Fashion Plate. , arUce thU week m
PAGE 7-I ntarnatlOD.il Sunday kind of conditions that do not keep
School Lesson. Go to Sunday the boys and girls contented on the
SohoolOood Highways And farm. Parents read it and do other
Prosper ity-Saved by His Bible, wise than you have been aeous
Oems in Verse. turned.
: KrvS ti.,.-.,!!.. a II..U.I
deavoring to impress upon the com-
merrial bodies in the towns to be
visited that this trade trip isn't
1 made for sellleh motives. The so-
put-taut, and every effort will be
made by the men on the "special"
to make real friends of the men they
meet along the route.
A hand will accompany the party
'to furnish music at all entertain-
'mcnts, as well as to head the parades
which have been arranged for by
several of the towna to he visifwt.
which will be announced later.
All mnix.pa .f nnH.
be dressed alike, and each will carrv !
a red, white and blue umbrella, and
wear a white duck hat. This para-
pharnalia will distinguish the visi-
..........0...., OCCU. I
The keynte of the whole trip and !
01 me men wno are behind it Is a
desire for personal acquaintance
Many of these men know by reptita-
tion and business dealing those they
will meet upon this trip. They be.
PAGE l.-Eaat Kentucky News Let
ters. Kill The Winter Fly.
Many like the first installment of
"The Forester's Daughter,' Are you
reading it?
The rampaign is on in dead earn
est against the San Jose scale in
Herea. If you have not been inter
viewed aiMMii your rruit trees you
"''""Id cast around for some informa-
" V, LV vZ
which to preach and draw your il-
IN OUR OWN STATE
Tin Knt 111-k jr Good Road Asso
ciation announced Tuesday that
plan vtere being developed for
pressing Rood roads work In the
inounlnin.
Senator James of Kentucky played
a Mir part in thp debate, on the Oore
resolution, which rocked the Senato
on uie znn. lie was strong in ins
'defense of the president.
I .mmjiii -iNi miners or wesiern Ken -
lucky attended the eighteenth ron-
mention in Louisville, the principal
1 .. ... l.:..t. 11.- i.i-..
minim 111 wuirii w hs urn consider -
' 11I urn of a wage increase and revision
!of the constitution.
The Finn Hill, increasing the pow-
jers of the State Hailroad Commission,'
and the measure looking to the crea
'lion of a Kentucky Tax Commission'
I were .olh defeated Tuesday in the
I lower i am h of the SUte I.cgisla-
(at the Sun Diego Exposition will be
Icompli-ted within a few days, and
The Illinois Central must pay J913,;,. 1 he. government tanks have
franchise laxes on 8,2l6Ofi7. The !.,. installed will he one of the
Court of Appeals on the fith refused to
, gram a new nearing. ine court,
, However, reiiucei the assessment
Ifroin il l.fNKi.ooo. returned by the
state Hoard. Taxes already have
heen paid on 45,OOn.non.
Kentucky's Democratic Congress
men voted solidly with Wotidrow
Wilson Tuesday to table the McLe-
more resolution. Swagar Sherley of
i.o.iisvu.e. an,, j i.ampneii i.anirm
of Georgetown spoke in behalf of the
viiiiiiiiximuon, Mieriey assuming
the floor leadership in behalf of the
President's forces.
L
Work Progressing on New Railroad
Work has lieen going on all win
ter on the new road from Barbour
ville to Manchester. Willi the open
ing of Spring the construction work
will lc increased and the work push
ed through rapidly. Steel is being
laid on the four mile stretch of grad-
w r,"d out or Itarnourville. Work
"'ar' ,m other end about
A,,r" 1,w rl,:nt way ',as beon
"""'caged to a Pennsylvania Co. for
,h, 1,111,1 ,,f r'no0))00; with this
a""M,"t P"' other finances there can
"r I'ossune ninucranres 10 me
r"a'' nl,ilt-
Hamlet Withdraws His Contest
"" 01.1 pany is glad 10 gel rid
'of hill).
Knott County May Call For Road
Bond Election
Good road work is becoming more
and more popular all over the East
ern Kentucky mountains. Knott
County people are working out plans
for calling an election in May to
voM ,MluU of ',,,IT,,,1,'l,t am,Mlnl to
construct good roads in all sections
of the county. The present bad
muds are proving barriers to the
development factors opening the ex
tensive coal and timlier fields. It
preiiirieu mat wiwiiu three vears
there will he seen a perfect network
of good roads all through the moun
tains.
Irvine's New Enterprise
A long lcmked for enterprise Is
xit to be started in Irvine in the
nn of a woodworking plant. This
Is planned to be an up-to-date plant
1 lie newspaper business is as hon-
i'1'nlilo and lespeclable a calling a
any to be found and requires a grade
of intelligence and business acumen
far above that needed in many other
ines of endeavor. The publisher has
two commodities to sell which are
just as tangible as the things in
which the butcher or grocer deal
subscriptions and advertising space.
Whatever the rates for either may
be, if the newspaper is worthy of the
name, we venture to say they are
well within reason and the publisher
need offer no apology when he re
ceives his nioney.Jackson Times.
I lie use of egns is well presented in
the Home Department this issue,
Many l.ne compliments are passed on
this feature of 1HE CITIZEN. Are
you lU.l t s all interested in the de-
partment? Miss Moore will ba glad
to hear from you personally. Popl
a few good questions at her and
gel some valuable information. I
U. S, NEWS
Thirty thousand women are ex
pected to attend the biennial con
vent ion of the General Federation
if Women's Chilis, which will open
in New York on May 21.
r
dent' Wilson has . anoroved
the Llau of the National Amateur
vii4i,.(.s Association to have its
,,., .,., ,.,
a reserve organiza-
lion tor
ise in case of war.
; c,,. r;. m. House, who sailed for
C.p. K. M. Hoi
Kurope iHrember 28 on a con
II, Initial minion for President Wit.
: sou
arrived in New York on the
ll(illiilaiii and left at once for
Washington to meet the President.
He 4m III report of an unfavorable
attitude toward the United States
hy the people of Europe were exag
Ifirali'd. J T. lioverniiienl buillding that is
f house the United Slates fisheries
greatest ti
:emporary
aquariums ever
prepared. The government fisheries
exhibit nl San Francisco Exposition
was installed i'i the Palace of Food
Products.
With every building crowded with
exhibits, new buildings in course of
construction, and a special field be
ing built for the display of motor
.transportation vehicles, the official
r(B4(or f tu. uu, ntUona and
!, v ,,articipants at the San Diego1
I r.n iu ion Knows nineteen nations
seven western states, two United
States territories, and sixteen Cali
fornia counties.
CHICAGO ABOLISHES OFFICE
Aftermath In Split-Pay Scandal In
Windy City.
Chicago. March 7. The city council
has abolished the position of superin
tendent of social survey by falling to
appropriate for It
The place waa occupied by ' Mrs.
Page Waller Raton, who resigned re
cently and rhareed her superior of
fleer. Mm. Iconise Osborne Howe, with
compell'ng her to pav a third of her
salary for the alleged benefit of Mayor
Thompson's rleter-ln-law.
Australians In Strike.
San Francisco. March 7. Fourteen
thousand Australian recruits In the
Casula and Liverpool training camps
In New South Wales struck and ran
wild In rlota in which shops and ho
tels tn Svdney and half a dozen other
towna were looted and wrecked. Sol
diers and rioters killed and the hos
pitals filled with wounded.
a
DAY IN CONGRESS
Se.iate. 4)
Dehate on Shields water power
t bill waa continued.
Indian committee resumed con- 4
slileration of appropriation bill. 4
0 House. 4
Admiral Fletcher testified be-
fore the naval affairs committee.
Army reorganization hill re-
ported by military committee.
Passed bills authorizing . de-
partment of commerce to make
original Investigation and re-
search concerning manufactur-
Ing; increasing number of steam-
boat Insiiectors; Incorporatinc
the Poy .Scouts of America; au-
thorlzlng leave of absence for t
homestead .settlers on unsur-
veyed lands, and authorizing con- a
struct Ion of bridges across Ohio
river from Woods Run. rittslmnr t
to Mc-Kee Ko:ks. and across Mer- '
4- rimac river at Iowell. 4
of sufficient size to suiiply the local
'einnnds and prixluce an output for
outside trade of no small dimen
sions. F.d Wanton of Richmond is
the chief mover of the enterprise.
Extract Plant Started
Armour & Company are starling
work 011 a large extract plant at SL
Paul, east of here on the Carolina,
Clinchlleld & Ohio railroad in Wise
County, where they will manufac
ture tanning acids, drawing their
timber supply from both Southwest-
ern Virginia and Eastern Kentucky.
Chestnut will be lanrelv used. Thirty
acres of land were lately purchased
upon which to locate the plant.
When fully under way, it is said,
that from 1.500 to 2.000 men will be
employed. Hazard Herald,
Mew Bank for Harlaa
The Harlan State Bank, recently
organized with a caoiui .lock r
(Continued oa rsae n)
NEWTON D. BAKER
Ohio
War
Man Htadt
Department.
SOFT CM MINERS Will
BIG WAGE INCREASES
Cfno4 U'nrV nf fVimmifW.
"PBCl M' Of lUlofullteeS 10
Ba Ratified.
New York. March 7. Wage In
creases that may annually approximate
$8,000,000 or more in the soft coal
fields of Indiana, western Pennsyl
vania. Ohio and Illinois, were agreed
upon by the subcommittee of bitumin
ous operators and miners for these
atatea, who are here negotiating a
new contract to go Into effect April 1.
The action of the subcommittee Will
be reported for ratification to the full
Joint conference of operators and
miners.
Indiana operators agree to Increase
the machine mining rate 3 cents to
62 cents a ton, and S cents Is added to
pick coal, making tho rate 64 cents a
ton.
In the meantime the session of the
Joint subcommittee of anthracite min
ers and operator has been deferred
until Wednesday afternoon to permit
the miners to complete their negotia
tions with the bituminous employers.
The action taken by the bltumtnoua
subcommittee will have an Important
effect. It la said, on the wage contracts
to be negotiated In central Pennsylva
nia. West Virginia, Michigan, Iowa
and Kentucky by the United Mine
Workers of America. Nearly 200,000
men will benefit by the Increases in
Indiana, western Pennsylvania. Ohio
and Illinois.
Aside from the general increase of
S cents a ton granted by the coal com
panies, the minera In western Penn
sylvania won the mine-run system of
paying wages, something the officers
of the union say, they have been striv
ing to obtain for thirty years.
I
GRAND JURY INDICTS 0RPET
Charged With Killing Lambert Girl,
His Sweetheart
Chicago, March 7. Will H. Orpet.
University of Wisconsin atudent, waa
Indicted by a Lake county grand Jury
on a charge of murdering his formes
sweetheart. Marian Imbert The
case probably will be called for trial
next week, but a continuance on re
quest of the defense la expected.
The grand Jury heard twenty-five
witnesses. They Included E. O. Or
pet. father of the defendant: Frank
Lambert, father of the girl, and Jose
phine Davis and Verne Jackson, school
friends of hers. It la charged that the
tragedy waa the culmination of a
llason. that It waa precipitated by
Orpet'a transferring hie affections to
another woman and that he provided
a violent poison which the girl swal
lowed. Americana Are Released.
Washington. March 7. The three
Americans, Mrs. Farwell, Mlsa Mitch
ell and Dr. Henry Forber, reported to
have been mistreated and Interned by
Bulgarian authorities In Monastic
have been released, according to re
ports to the state department from
Lewie Einstein, special diplomatic
agent In the Halkana.
Trita te 'Hop" Freight; Killed.
Danville. 111.. March 7. Clarence
Gouty, age twenty-one, died on the
way to a hospital here, after being
thrown under the wheels of a freight
train he attempted to board at Oeasle.
One leg was almost severed. He was
the eoa of Lewis Oouty. a prominent
farmer, Uvtag Bear Oesele.
V V !
1 v J
rM 1
l ;
M
x
WORLD NEWS
! The effort of the Germans to break
.their way through the French line
!at. Verdun is the great event of the
,week in Europe, ft comes nearest
fo a decisive move of any made in
some time. The Germans have taken
some outlying points at a great cost
of life. The French are holding their
ground well and sem willing to
1 have the tent of relative strength
! made at Verdun. The Germans must
win or lose prestige.
Another Bevolut'on is being plan
ned in Mexico. This time it is lear
ly General Zapata and Felix Diaz, the
i nephew of the former president.
Diaz. Carranza still has control of
I the situation but such movements
are the cause of delay In bringing
i Mexico into a settled condition, such
as she much needs.
A congress of Christian workers
, has just adjourned a notable meeting
, held at Panama. Representatives
j from all the countries of North and
South America met to consider the
fliil i irl.kl 1. n .1 . 1 ......... I t. I... 1
miifi"iio aim inoiui ueiiei ineiii ui
tlie Latin American countries.
i Seme representatives from Europe
1 nn countries were also present.
I While most of the delegates were
Protestant yet fine addresses were
I made by Catholics who seemed to
welcome the entrance of new relig-
'
ces into the Catholic conn.
Heports from Stockholm indicate
that Sweden has decided to comply
with the German policy of dealing
with armed merchant vessels and
ocean liners. She has issued a note
of warning to her people to keep off
from such boats when they are ob
liged to travel. This marks a lack of .
uniformity among the neutral coun
tries that may weaken their cause.
The Island of Haiti has come un
der the protectorate of the United
State by means of a treaty, recently
agreed to by both countries. This is
the result of many years of revol
ution and disorder in that country,
which has been . annoying to the
t'nited Slates.
The prtslecorate limits Haiti in her
financial and foreign afairs.
The death of the queen of Rou
mania removes a much loved char
acter from the unsettled section of
F.urope. This good queen identified
erself with the welfare of her people
and was greatly beloved by them.
She was noted as a writer, using a
her material the traditions and folk
lore of the people to a considerable
extent.
Italy has incurred the ill wilt of
Germany because she has seized some
German vessels that have been in
terned in her ports. A peremptory
demand to return them has been
made. A similar situation has aris
en in Portugal rnd a similar demand
h&s been made by Germany. Neither
of these countries are formally in
.war with Germany, as no declaration
has been made.
The world is watching with in
terest the struggle that is going ou
in Washington between President
Wilson and Congress, in regard to
the foreign policy of the United
Stales. The President and his Cab
inet are standing firm for a strict
observance of international law, as
the. only safe course in the period
of war, while Congress is willing to
issue a note of warning against
travel on vessels that are armed.
The Senate and House by vote has
yielded to the President and ex
pressed its confidence in him.
JERMAIJS TAKE
IIEVP0SITI0II
Capture Forges In Attack on
'Verdun Lines.
BREAK UNDER FRENCH FIRE
Crewn Prince's Troops, After Suffer
ing Terrific Loeeee In Attack en
Northwestern Front Are Forced te
Retire Preparing Far New Attack.
Paris. March 7. The erowa prince,
toward the close of the fourteenth day
(Continued ea Page Ptve
1.
