IH Journal T-m- , (! B
- -as '. H
EIGHT PAQE3 LOQAN, CACHE COUNTY, UTAH THURSDAY MA.RCH 9 1916 FOURTEENTH ' isH
I Scientific Management Necessary
, to Restore, and Protect U, S. Forests
I Tho forests of the United Stated
I arc being consumed more than throe
I times as rapidly ns they nro grow-
I lng. not taking Into consideration
I tho Immense loss by forest "res.
This Is tho message given to tho
I world In a striking manner by tho
I United States government forest 3cr
I ilco exhibit at San Diego's 101G Ex
I position. Tho display Is the first to
be completed of the government's
I 18,000 square feet of exhibits being
I housed in three Exposition bulldlnps.
H Sixty-five per cent of every tree
I cut In tho United States forests Is
I -wasted and tho greater part of this
H wasto is avoidable
Those things, which aro brought
H to tho attention of San Diego visit
H ors, are more appalling when it ia
leallzed that the United Statcj for
I est area Is decreasing while- tho pop-
B ulatlon increases.
H The government exhibit shows two
B things to bo necessary: first tho in-
B troduction of scicntinc management
H in tho forests and second tho reduc-
flj tion of wasto In tho utilization of
H wood. Through scientific manage-
B ment, tho govornracnt opcrt3 hold
B that tho forests may be mado to pro-
B duco thrco or four times as much
B timber as when left to nature and
B this by improving rather than do-
B stroylng tho forests.
B Scientific logging and tho roduc-
B tlon of wasto by tho introduction of
B improved methods and tho mauufac-
H turo of byproducts aro tho striking
H features of tho Exposition exhibit.
H Tho problem of tho scientific hand-
H ling of woodlands Is presented by
H threo models at San Diego, ca?h foar
m feet square, showing an aero of
H wostern yellow plno. Tho central
H model shows tho aero in virgin con-
H dltlon ready for logging. Model No.
2 shows tho acre as It would appear
JP alter It has been logged under gov-
fftSM crnment regulation on a National
Ogden Packing and
Provision Company
To Add Stockyards
Ogden, March 7. Improvements
of the Ogden Packing and Provision
company's plant on West Twenty
fourth street, Involving an expendi
ture of $100,000 and tho organization
of tho Ogden Union stockyards with
a capital of $230,000 of which $100,000
Is to be expended Immediately, has
been authorized by the principal stock
holders of tho company. Modern
stockyards will bo built on tho 70
acres of ground west of tho com
pany's plant, across Weber river. Ad
ditions to tho local plant lncludo an
"L" building 100 feet by 100 feet,
which will bo larger than tho present
building. Tho capacity of the plant
will bo Increased threo fold In tho
output of pork products.
It is expected that an architect
will bo hero from Chicago sometime)
this week to plan tho now building
Work on tho stockyards Is to begin
beforo tho end of tho week. Tho en
tiro area will bo covcrod with con
crete floors as a sanitary mcasurn
nnd tho latest Improvements will bo
mado part of tho enclosures.
When completed tho packing hous
es and yards will glvo employment
to 500 persons, preparing meats fr
tho market. Stockbuyers, represent'
ing all tho largo packers In io Uni
ted States, will mako this their head
quarters. It Is anticipated that with
j in tho next two years 1000 persona
0fcv "vs ill bo employed and stieet cars will
be run In tho district of tho plant.
Tho plant's capacity will bo In
creased to provide for tho slaughter
ing and dressing of 1000 hogs, 1500
sheep and 300 cattle each working
dny. This amount of stock moans
that 47 cars will bo required daily
nnd a corresponding nmount of dross
td meats will bo sent out. Tho now
building will have flvo stories with
unmixes. One department will bo
devoted entirely to hogs. Tho planB
aro to bo sent to the bureau of anl
niui Industry at Washington for approval.
forest with stumps cut low, logs cut
from high Into the tree tops, oung
growth protected, brush plla.l for
burning, and a futuro forest insured.
Tho third model shows tho aero
logged by wasteful methods. Slumps
aio high, large tops mo left unused
many logs nro shattered by cai class
felling, oung trees nro broken by old
ones fa'.llng upon them or hao been
felled, dead trees liavo been loft
standing and the brush lies vrb it
tell constituting a tire raennce.
Wood waste and its utilisation la
covered at the Exposition display by
a series of nlno models. Flvo of these
show tho progress of wood from tho
forest, through tho snw mill nnd tho
planing mill, to the finished house,
nnd tells tho wasto in each step.
Tho other four mode's placed along
side nro of a paper making mac'ilno,
a wood distillation plant, a wood
working factory, and a tannic extract
plant. Thoy bear tho labels f-ug-gestlng
that much wood waste can
bo utilized in the manufacture of
uch byproducts ns paper, alcohol,
tannic ncld, acetate of lime, acetone,
lui pontine, rosin, and oxalic at Id,
and many wooden commodities such
us tool and brush handles, rollers,
gun stocks and bobbins. Above the
case containing these models Is a
frieze upon which aro displayed
many of these commodltlos, and tho
wasto material from which they T-an
bo made.
Tho Exposition exhibit also con
tains charts and maps and many
beautifully colored transparencies
show Ing forests, throughout tho conn
itiy, and activities upon the National
forests. To houso tho government
display a new building Is under con
struction l'n addition to tho two now
In uso.
Formal dedication of the 191C expo
sition la March IS.
Important Musical
Event at Tabernacle
Tomorrow Night
Unusual Interest Is being centered
In the appearanco at tho Tabernacle
tomorrow night, of Charles Wakefield
Cadman nnd Princess Tslanlna Hod
feather tho Indian mezzo soprano, oa
tho second event of tho Artists Con
cert Series under tho management of
Fred C. Graham, and tho auspices of
tho Lyceum Committee of tho U. A.
C. and tho B. Y. C. Tho sale of
scats bns been going on at the That
cher Music Co., and Indications point
to a capacity houso. Following Is tho
program as will bo rendered:
Songs
I Found Him on tho Mesa... Cadman
Memories Cadman
At Dawning (requested- .... Cadman
Piano Music
Tho Thunderblrd Comes From tho
Cedars (Ms.) .., Cadman
Andnnto con Desldcrlo (From Son-
ato in A Major) Cadraau
Tho Pompadour's Fan (After a
Poem by Austin Dobson... Cadman
Songs
At Sundown '. Lleuranso
Invocation to tho Sungod Troycr
PART U (Tho Indian Music Talk
1, The Old Man's Lovo Song
(Omaha tribal melody recorded
by Fletcher and Idealized by
Arthur Harwell.)
2. Examples of Sacred Music
(Prlmltlvo) tued ns an analogy:
Tho Omaha Tribal Prayer (sung
in tho Indian Tongue); A Greg
orian Chant of tht Seventh Cen
tury (In Latin) ; An Ancient Cop
tic Chant (In Arabic ueublos.)
3. A Demonstration of Involved
Rhythms (drum beat with vocal
part) using twn Omaha coremonl
nl songs recorded by Miss Fletch
er). 4, Somo SongJ Ilullt Upon Natlvo
Thoraes;
niankot Song (Zunl) Troyor
He Who Moves In tho Dow
(Omaha) Cadman
Her Shadow (An OJlbwny Canoo
Song) Fred Durton
(Continued on Page Eight)
HIGH SCHOOL BOYS ENTERING UPON
PREPAREDNESS WORK WITH ENTHUSIASM
l . -Aw.
Photos by American Pi ess Association.
lTlirout;liout the country, while oi)ie'6lloKe presidents nro discussing pro and con tho ndviMbtllty of InlrvtluiltiK mili
tary drill Into tho higher Institutions of learning, others, with the principals of high schooU, nro taking stern to teuch
their UinrfieB tho ludlments of military drill., In New York city tho Stuyvesant hliih schorl students have tiikon up
tho subject with eiiUiusliism. nnd oscry rrldaytrnoQji,a larcc body oftliiuji.(usmblos I a the annul y of tha 6ertt
flrst rejilmcnt for Instruction by Captain Albert T. ltlch, L'nltcd States nrmy. Tho pictures shov Captain Klch and
students to whom he Is teaching tho uso of tho military rlllc.J
'
FIVE DOLLARS
FOR YOUR BABY
PRIZEWINNER
Why Not Have a Baby 4how and Let
Someone Get the
Money?
John H. Russell, local superintend
ent for tho Metropolitan Life Insur
ance Company, has been advised by
tho New York olllco that bis com
pany has decided to cooperate In Uw
Daby Welfare Week which Is being
qonducted In various parts of tho
country beginning March 4, this ac
tion hnvlng been undertaken at the
request of Miss Julia C. Lathrop,
chief of tho Children's Uureau of the
United States Department of Labor,
who has sought tho Metropolitan Llto
Insurance Company's cooporatton and
assistance.
This company tecls that tho cam
paign will do much to reduce deaths
among children and to lower tho
amount of sickness thnt may lead to
rcrlous ailments In later Ufo.
Special baby literature has been
prepared by this company for distri
bution by Its agents among policy
holders. Tho company has decided
to glvo a special 3 prio In gold for
tho baby selected as prlzo winnor In
nny nnd all of tho baby contests that
might bo hold In any community.
Hero Is a good chnnco for l tho
mothers of Logan to get togethor,
appoint Judges, nnd moko a decision
as to tho best baby in tho entire com
munlty, and this child will Jo award
ed with a ?5 prlzo, according to Mr.
Russell.
IDAHO MAN CHOSEN
TO HEAD DISTRIBUTORS
Spokane, Wash., March 7. Tho
North Pacing TVult Distributors, at
their annual Mug hero today rat
ified Its oxeeutlvo council plan of
reorganization and decided to estab
lish a gonernl eastern sales depart
ment at Chicago. J. H. Lowell of
Parma, Idaho, was eloctod president
PUSHING WORK
ON BUILDING
FORJj. C. CO.
Tho falling of snow does not seem
to Interfero with tho work on tlw
Sliamhart-Chrlstlansen building Imme
diately south of the Hotel Logan.
Several teams aro at work excavat
ing tho basement nnd thcro Is per
haps moro llfo In this particular place
than most any other place In town.
An order for tho steel which Is to
bo used in tho erection of tho build
ing bus been placed and tho work Ifl
progressing very nicely.
K. C. Varco of lloston represent
ing the Lamson Carrier Company was
in Logan this week figuring on tho
Listnllatlon of tho new carrier system
for this new storo which will consist
of about thirty package carriers and
several pneumatic tubes, and will
bo tho most modern cnrrler sjstem to
bo found In tho country today.
1 im
AUTO PLUNGES INTO BAY;
ONE PASSENGER DROWNED
San Diego, Cal., March 7. An au
tomobile carrying eight men, four of
them sailors of tho United States na
vy, drove upon a ferry boat hero to
night rapidly trnersed the deck of
tho vessel and plunged off tho other
end Into tho bay, carrying with It
threo of Its passengers. Benjamin
Crockett, formerly associated In
sporting ventures with Tex RIcknrd,
and James Coffroth, fight promoters,
wns drowned. Tho other two, 11. S.
Webb, the drjvcr, and Robert Helntz,
were rescued. Tho four sailors and
nnother passenger Jumped out of tho
car as It sped upon tho boat. Wit
nesses said Webb mado no nttempt
to stop tho machine
CHOIR REHEARSAL
Tho Tabernacle Choir will, rehearse
on Saturday evening of thlu weok at
8 o'clock. Tho Tnbornaclo being oth
erwise engaged on Friday ovcnlng.
S, B, MITTON, Director.
SLAUGHTERING
CONDITIONS ARE
NOT FAVORABLE
Dr. Carroll Advocates Central Killing
Station In Cache to Prevent
Spreading of Disease
Under tho guldcnco of Superintend
ent Mudsen of the Ogden Pncklnis and
Provision Co. at Ogden, twenty stud
ents from tho Agricultural College,
on Monday explored tho plant from
cellar to garret and wero treated to
n mixed killing spectacle of sheep,
cattle and hogs. A lunch of packing
houso products wns served to tho
guests at tho plant, which consisted
of four kinds of sausages, pickled
pigs feet and excellent ham.. Dr.
Carroll who accompanied tho students
reports It tho best ment ho over ato
and this was also tho opinion of Mr.
Sterling Price, tenchor In tho School
for Dent nnd Rllnd, who with two
dent mutes Joined tho party at tho
pncklng plant. On their return lo
Logan Dr. Carroll gavo his students
In Animal Husbandry a lecture on tho
defects of tho slaughtering conditions
of Cacho Valley, contrasting them
very unfavorably with thoso of Ogden.
In his talk Dr. Carroll showed tho
Impossibility of not spreading dlseaso
In using tho meat under the present
methods and advocates a central
slaughtering plant for tho valley.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
i
Marrlago licenses have been Issued
to tho following couples during tho
week;
Edward J. Hoskln of Wcllsvlllo.
nnd Magglo Clifford of Mlllvlllo.
Carenco P. nird and Ina Sorenson,
both of Mendon.
Fred K. Smith nnd Rortha Gllgen,
both of Danlols, Idaho.
Elmer Hatch and Ruby Boyd, both
of Oxford, Idaho.
Charles h. Nelson and Florence J.
Burgess, both of Smlthfleld.
Peter Jensen and Katlo Schonk,
botu of Lund, Idaho,
UTAH SENATOR - I
STANDS BEHIND ! I
PROILSON I
Desires Pence, But Would Protect ' H
the People. Junior Member
From Utah Speaks H
Washington, March 7. DlBcusslng f ' M
the nrmed Hhlp Issue In the senate H
today Senator Sutherland of Utah, a ' H
Republican member of tho foreign '
rotations committee, stood squarely H
behind President Wilson In his policy H
In dealing with Germany In tho sub- H
marlno negotiations. '!
"I do not want war at any time," H
said Senator Sutherland, "nnd I prn H
God that It mny not corao now, but ' jH
I would rather havo war with all Its jH
sacrifices and suffering thnn that this jH
nation, with Ita long history of hero- " H
Ism nnd glory, should play the pel- ; H
troon when confronted by a supreme H
nntlonai duty, becnuso It places great- H
or valuo upon Its caso than upon its ; H
"I nm ono of thoso who desire j jKl
pence," tho senator continued, "but jH
a nntlon, when nil other means fall. iHI
that will not resent n flagrant and ! H
Illegal attack upon thu lives, of ''its jH
own citizens Is only less detestable H
than n man who will not light for hli
wlfo and children. And, bcliovlng as H
I do about thnt, If tho life of an Am- jl
crlcnn citizen Ih ngnln taken by tho 'Jl
Illegal and deliberate sinking with-
out warning of a mcrchantshlp, tin- SSH
nrmed or armed only for dofense, i JiH
that this government should hold tho ' H
offending nation to a stern reckon- ,jft
Ing, I Bhnli never glvo my consent to
tho lssuanco of n formnl nnd olTlcl.U lH
notice such ns has been proposed ijJH
which if not hecdedrwould, without ll
minimizing. our'Tiuty In tho lenst, H
Iioao thQ, otrtct Of embarrassing and ' fl
weakening our moral Blnndlng If wo $91
should onco moro bo under tho Bad 9(
necessity of seeking reparation for 'Hl
tho destruction of tho lives of our , fl
Status of Armed Ships jH
Senator Sutherland In discussing H
the legal status of nrmed merchant H
ships under International law and the. jH
relation thereto of the submarine, ul
contended that tho submarine must -,H
j lolil to tho lnw and not tho lnw to H
th'o submarine. If tho law jlolds to' I lH
tho submarlno, ho said, nnd allows rlll
tho underwater boat to sink vessels -,l
armed defensively only without wurp- -;HH
lng and without giving passenger i
and crew a chanro to get to a. place-. , jjH
of safety, It will bo Inviting tho sink- jH
ing of unarmed shlpa as welt since ll
he snld, "It Is well nigh impossible ilH
for tho oulcers of a submarlrio,,to do- 'iffH
termlno In ndvanco whethorn, given 'lilPI
vessel Is armed or not, The result I, KN
will bo that unarmed vesselat whllo j fl
possessing Immunity in theory will 'i
havo nono In fact. I .'jH
Right of Citizens to Travel 1
"Tho (luestlon next arises and, in- HH
deed, It Is really tho crucial question T
shall our citizens bo oluclnlly ad- j
vleed to forbear from traveling on 'fH
belligerent merchant vessels nrmod $
for dofenso only? Or, indeed, shall ij H
wo go further and for old tholr do- I )JH
lng so under penalty for dlsobedl- ''H
once? If 1 nm correct In what I have
already said, nnmely, that theso mnr- (H
chant ships havo tho right to carry ,H
tlefouslvo nrmument, It follows that lH
such a ship has tho same status as j JH
though unarmed nnd that tho right I'll WM
of a neutral citizen to transport hh ' IW
good, or travel upon either la tho -t-M
same and not a different right and ( W
that, In fact, la tho decision of our S
own' supremo court In a great case ' flp
decided many jcars ago and novor i j ;H
blnco overruled or mndlfied. " 'JB
"If, therefore a citizen tako pas- j W,,
sago upon a ship so armed and lose ; w
his Ufo by the sinking of tho ship j. 'M
without wnrnliig, what must bo tho j, W,
contention nnd claim of this govern- fMp
ment? To my mind elenrly thla; frftt
That tho citizen In tho oxerclso of a B
clear right has been deprived of bla HB
llfo by the deliberately lllegnl act of ijilB'
tho bolllgorent government which' Wmit
sent tho submarlno on Its mission of rV
death." iHp
Senator Suthernnd also opposed IHf
any chango In the rulo with respect IBfr!
to tho snlo of munitions of war or Wwfltifr
arming merchant ships for defonso, HSk!
, assortlug that any such changes now ' IB
would be an unneutral net. Jmiv'
I-
mm:
