PFHWTWIBBBBBBBIBBBBJlfiW
J3 :1 l
I i
I i
tZLF''J&ffi'W CLWV d .ySt'J ( T'-'WV "V W-'V'V -fc weather-.,: Tonw .a .
: 27.50. TT S Temperature. H
.' . HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTY. " ' : H
- v H
j Forty-sixth Year-No. 59, Price: Five Cents. QGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, MARCH 9, 1916. Entered as Second caaw Matter at th.Postoaile.Ocden.r.tdu , H
U.S. 13th Cavalry Not Heard From '" I
Since the Americans Crossed the &, I
Border in Pursuit of Gen. Villa I
1, , . :
tl : r- i
i COL, 5L0CUM TO PURSUE RAIDERS
UNTIL WHOLE BAND IS CAPTURED
9
'1 Mexican Commander at Juarez Endorses Action of American
; ; Troops in Crossing Border Villa's Watchword, "Death
jj to Americans" Intends to Make Mexico Stick in
j Throats of United States' People Cavalry
I Squadrons Sent to Reinforce Col. Slocum.
M Washington, March 9. Senator Fall of New Mexico, re-
J ceived today a telegram from El Paso which said that Colonel
M Slocum, commanding the Thirteenth cavalry, had followed
'1 the bandits into Mexico and had wired that "he was going to
m stay with the pursuit until he captured the whole bunch."
m' The Mexican commander at Juarez, the Fall Telegram
M said, had endorsed the action of American troops in crossing
:1 the international line. The bandits, according to the message
M were under Villa's personal command when they raided Co-
'1 lumbus.
I Washington, March 9. Late today the United States
1 , sent a formal notification of the Columbus massacre to Gen-
'1 eral Carranza through American Consul Silliman.
1 A dispatch from General Pershing, forwarded to the war
M department late today through General Funston, stated
1 , definitely that the Mexican raiders were commanded by Villa
: personally.
I
M Washington, March 9. Ap unofficial report received
-1 here, and transmitted to the Carranza embassy, said the
I I Thirteenth U. S. cavalry had crossed the border in pursuit.
I i Columbus, N. M., March 9. Arthur McKihney, foreman
'I of the Palomas ranch, William Corbett and James O'Neil, cap
M 1 tured by Villa Tuesday, were hanged and their bodies burned,
I I according to information received here today. The hanging
'1 1 occurred when the bandits raided the cattle herd of the Bosques
If Grandes ranch. B. J. Moore, a merchant on a ranch one mile
I west, was killed. A chauffeur driving an automobile with an
1 El Paso license, name unknown, was killed and his body
I burned.
h -
! Columbus', N. M., March 9. Bardo Marquez was cap-
tured by American troopers and lodged in the guard house
charged with having guided Villa to the border and pointed out
! houses where prominent American civilians, American officers
and soldiers lived.
Douglas, Arizona, March 9. A squadron of the Seventh
United States cavalry and a machine gun troop were ordered
! today to proceed immediately to San Bernardino, 18 miles
east of here. .
tj The Tenth United States cavalry stationed at Naco, Ari
zona, and troops at Fort Huachuca, Arizona, were ordered in
readiness.
i Douglas, N. M., March 9. Eight hundied Mexicans
1! Passed Mimbras, N. M., the first station west of Columbus,
fl ; early today and were headed west toward Hachita, N. M., ac-
3 cording to a message received here today from 'the dispatcher
fl i of the El Paso and Southwestern, railroad at Mimbras. No f ur-
I ' ther details have yet been received.
I The raid caused much excitement here. During the
I ', morning J. T. Hood, an automobile salesman, began the or-
I ganization of a volunteer company of automobile owners who
I ! have placed their machines at the disposal of the Sixth United
I States infantry brigade stationed here.
t is said that several companies of the United States sol-
B diers here will be sent to San Bernardino, eighteen miles east
f of here.
Columbus, N. M., March 9. Araeri-
can. troopers continued their pursuit
' of Villa raiders throughout the fore-
noon. Early this afternoon no word
". had been received as to how far Amor-
lean soldiers had penetrated into
fl Mexico. , , -.mi
' A Moxlcan fugitive said that Villa
fl ' addressed his men yesterday just bo
fl fore ordering an advance on Colum-
' bus. According to the Moxlcan s ac-
count, Villa declared the watchword
'- would be "Death to Americana, and
M added that the "killing of Americans
afl ? was Just because citizens of the Unit-
i , od States were responsible for the
3D t wretched condition of Mexico.
ii " 'The United States intends to swal-
I low Mexico Villa shouted," Bald the
? i fugitive, "'let us do what we can to
h make it stick in their throats.' "
fl i Total Dead U. S. Soldiers.
S i Thomas Butler, private of Troop F.
Hf later died of his wounds making total
jHt dead American soldiers seven.
'K Twenty-four bodies of Mexican
H; raiders had been gathered and burned
JB- 'before noon &nd (officials reported
SHfc. scores more woro in the brush.
jD Colonel Slocum stated one squadron
fl' of cavalry was coming from Fort Bliss
JK and that he had sufficient troops to
jjHt- whip Villa again.
IV Major Llndsley, stationed at Gibson
pflK'
ranch, sent three troops of cavalry
across the border to reinforce Major
Tompkins who went in pursuit of the
raiders.
Since 7 o'clock the town has been
quiet with comparatively Httlo ex
citement. Mayor Hoover sent a telegram to
Washington asking what the govern
ment was going to do.
Mrs. Wright who said she was re
leased before the fight started, stated
that sho had been compelled to romaiu
in the saddle almost continuously for
nine days. Sho said at that time Villa
declared:
"I am going to shoot up Columbus
and make a torch of every man, wo
man and child."
A. L. Ritchie, proprietor of the Cen
tral hotel, waa dragged from a sick
bed and killed. Mrs. Ritchie was
roughly handled. The bandits tore
several rings from her fingers.
A number of stores were looted and
burned. A number of Mexican wound
ed wore stolen Bhoes.
Pablo Lopez, second in command to
Villa, waB killed.
Washington, March. 9. Faced by a
new crisis In Mexican affairs through
the Columbus massacre, administra
tion officials admitted that President
Wilson might ,find it difficult to re
frain longer from actual interference.
What the administration leaders,
who favor a watchful, waiting course,
fear most Ib an outbreak in congress
with its consequent effect upon the
country.
At the White House the only word
given out was that steps would be
taken to punlBh the Villa bandits but
It was not Indicated whether General
Carranza would be called upon to do
so or whether American troops would
be sent over the line.
At the state department the situa
tion waB said to be "very serious" but
no announcement of what action could
be taken would be announced until
all official Investigation was conclud
ed. The state department is understood
to have begun the draft of a memoran
dum to General Carranza, based on
the report of General Funston.
The memorandum is being prepared
with a view to its dispatch in case
Secretary Lansing decides to present
the case to General Carranza. It
probably will be drafted along slmilai
lines to the communication sent to
General Carranza on the Santa Ysabel
massacre, but, because of the more
serious aspect of the present Incident,
probably will be firmer than the pre
vious one
Late this afternoon Secretary Lan
sing and Secretary Baker conferred
over the official dispatches. Officials
would not discuss their probable ac
tion, but there were many among
them who favored moving vigoiously
Secretary Lansing announced late
today that the United States was con
sidering asking General Carranza for
permission to send American troops
into Mexico to capture the Villa ban
dits who raided Columbus, N M
Secretary Lansing said that if per
mission were asked it would be for
this occasion only and that the troops
would be withdrawn when they had
achieved their purpose.
It was said that the request for per
mission to send the American troops
into Mexico probably would go for
ward to General Carranza before night
Columbus, N. M., March 9. A band
of Mexican bandits numbering from
800 to 1000 supposedly under the per
sonal command of Francisco Villn,
raided United States territory early
today. They attacked Columbus kill
ed American civilians who exposed
themselves and set fire to several
buildings For nearly two hours
fighting continued in the streets Colo
nel H. J. Slocum speedily brought the
Thirteenth cavalry into action and
shortly after 6 o'clock drove the raid
eis across the border.
Nine civilians and six United
States troopers were the known dead
early in the day.
The dead:
A. L. RITCHIE, hotel proprietor.
WALTON WALKER, United States
customs rider.
MILTON JAMES.
J. S. DEAN,
W. R. WALKER, guest Central ho
tel. C. C. MILLER, druggist.
J. J. MOORE, merchant.
Unidentified chauffeur.
American Soldier Killed.
FRANK T. KENDEVALL, horse
shoor Troop K.
SERGEANT MARG A. DOBBS, ma
chine gun troop.
CORPORAL PAUL SIMON.
SERGEANT JOHN NIEVERGELT,
band.
CORPORAL HARRY WISWALL,
Troop G.
FRED A, GRIFFEN, private, Troop
K.
The wounded:
Josse P. Taylor, Troop F.
Thomas Butler, Troop F.
Theodore Kalzorke, Troop L.
Michael Barmazel, machine gun
troop.
John Yarbrough, Troop K.
James Venner, Troop M.
John Keogh, Troop G. '
Lieutenant C. C. Benson, Troop G.
Information that Francisco Villa
and his chief lieutenant, Pablo Lo
pez, were In personal command of
the raid, was given Colonel Slocum
by a Mexican rancher captured by
the bandits last Sunday and who es
caped during the fighting. This Mex
ican told of the hanging of the Amer
ican ranchers McKinney, Corbett and
O'Neil. He added that a fourth
American, whose name he did not
know, had been hanged at the samo
time. The Mexican said Villa attack
ed with from 800 to 1000 men and
a machine gun platoon.
Villa Papers Found.
Personal papers of Francisco Villa
were contained in a portmanteau
found by a United States trooper Just
west of the -American camp.
The Mexican told Slocum that Villa
left the Bosques Grandes ranch Tues
day, made a leisurely Journey north
and about four yesterday afternoon
loft a point on tho Boca Grande and
startod for the border.
"Traveling north, they crossed the
boundary west of Columbus," said tho
Mexican, "and entered tho town by a
ditch running past tho cavalry camp.
Villa was In personal charge and de
clared ho was going to kill overy
American because the Amorlcan gov
ernment did not treat him right. Villa
declared Carranza could not make
peaco in Mexico. With Villa wore
Pablo Lopez, Martin Lopez, Colonel
Candolarlo Sovantez, Colonel Cruz
Chavez, General Joae Fernandez and
General Beltran."
The Mexican, who prayed that his
name be not used, confirmed a report,
previously given out by Carranza offi
cials that before leaving the Santa
Ana district. In -western Chihuahua,
Villa had freely stated that he intend
ed to force intervention by tho United
States by raiding American territory
and killing everybody In sight.
Lieutenant Clyde Ely, with twenty
two men of the New Mexican national
guard, arrived from Demlng today and
joined the federal troops
WILSON RECEIVES
NEWS Of RAID
Villa Attack on Columbus,
New Mexico, Puts Serious
Aspect On Mexican
Situation.
Washington, March 9 Secretary
Baker transmitted to President Wil
son reports about the attack on Co
lumbus, N. M., as quickly as they
were received at the war department.
It was said at the White House that
vigorous steps would be taken to
punish the bandits. Tho president di
rected Secretary Baker to do every
thing possible to protect Americans.
Washington, March 9 First reports
of the Mexican raid on Columbus, N
M., were received at the White House
while President Wilson was having
his first conference with Newton D.
Baker, the new secretary of war. Offi
cials admitted' that the raid put a
very serious aspect on the Mexican
situation.
While the policy of the administra
tion, so far has been to look to the
Carranza forces to deal with the ban
dits, some officials declared today
that it was a grave question whether
such a raid as that on Columbus was
not sufficient evidence of the inability
of the Carranza government to deal
with the situation to warrant sending
American troops over the line.
New Agitation In Congress.
The raid started a new agitation in
congress where those who have op
posed the administration's Mexican
policy openly charged that the attack
was proof of their repeated declara
tions that the Carranza government
was impotent to deal with the situa
tion and a fulfillment of their predic
tions that another outrage like the
recent Cusi massacre, in which six
teen or more Americans were killed
by Villa bandits, was only a question
of time.
Funston's First Report.
Major General Funston's first report
on the Columbus massacres says throe
troopers were killed and that four
were wounded. It did not bring full
details.
General Funston's report said firing
had ceased at C 30 o'clock and that
cavalry was In pursuit of the bandits
to the southeast of Columbus. Tho
number of cavalrymen, dead was un
known at that time.
There were indications that tho Co
lumbus massacre would be tho signal
for another outbreak in tho senate
where the opponents of the adminis
tration's policy have been most actlvo.
White House Concerned.
At the White House the r.eport was
received with evidences of the great
est concern Officials most familiar
with the president's Mexican policy
were silent, but they Indicated that
the raid had brought tho situation to
a critical point, where it might be
difficult to stand by the policy of non
interference. After the president and Mr. Baker
had discussed the reports briefly the
president decided that the new sec
retary of war should take office at
once. He signed Mr. Baker's commis
sion and the new secretary was sent
to his new office to re sworn in.
Ono of the probable courses most
discussed in official circles was to
send American troops over the line to
clean out the bandits. It was pointed
out that such action could be taken
with a declaration that there was no
intention to impair the sovereignty of
Mexico or purpose of occupation of
territory, but simply to deal with a
situation menacing to the American
border over which tho Carranza gov
ernment evidently had no control.
Conflict of Opinion.
Thero Is conflict of opinion regard
ing tho authority of the war depart
ment to Bend troops into a foreign
country without tho consent of con
grese. Some officials, however, con
tend that the constitution vests tho
president with authority to repel in
vasion, including power "to send troops
over the line. Precedents for send
ing troops Into Mexico to pursue ban
dits were found in the stato depart
ment archives concerning trouble
with Mexican Indians and raiders in
1871 and 1878.
Fun6ton In Supreme Command.
Major General FunBton is in su
preme command of tho situation on
the border and has full authority to
do everything short of sending troops
over the line without coramunicaUon
with Washington. War department
officials expect he is in personal
charge at Columbus.
Fall Asks for Details.
Senator Fall of New Mexico, Re
publican, and one of the foremost
opponents of the president's Mexican
policy, sent telegrams to railroad of
ficials and citizens in the vicinity of
Columbus asking for 'details.
The news spread over the capitol
with startling effect. Senator Stone,
chairman of the foreign relations'
committee, at once communicated
with the state department and also
asked Senator Fall for a conference.
The president sent word to the war
department that he be notified Im
mediately of all developments. Re
I orts that American soldiers had
crofased the border In pursuit of the
Mexicans was shown him.
Villa's Bold Stroke.
The conviction prevails1 in official
circles that the attack was a bold
stroke on the part of Villa to force in
tervention by the United States.
uu
GERMANY AT WAR
WITH PORTUGAL
Portuguese Minister Handed
His Passports at 3:30
p. m. in Berlin Today.
WAR IS DECLARED
Many Breaches of Neutrality
and Recent Illegal Seizure of
German Vessels Brings
Climax.
Berlin. March 9, via Wireless to Say
ville. Germany declared war on Port
ugal at 3: SO o'clock yesterday after
noon and handed his passports to the
Portuguese minister.
"The German government, there
fore considers herself from this time
in war with the Portuguese govern
ment," is the conclusion of a declar
ation handed today by the German
minister at Lisbon to the Portuguese
government and in Berlin to the Port
uguese minister, a semi-official news
agency announcement states
German War Declaration.
"The German declaration," says the
news agency, "emphasized the fact
that this step was made necessary by
tho recent jllegal seizures of German
ships in Portuguese ports, which is
the gravest sort of breach of neutral
ity and of special treaties. Germany,
therefore, is obliged to give up her
former attitude of forebearance which
she had maintained because of Portu
gal's awkward position.
Many Breaches of Neutrality.
"The declaration enumerates a long
series of breaches of neutrality by the
Portuguese government such as the
permission of Tree passago to English
troops through the colony of Mozam
bique; tho permission given to Eng
llsh men of war for use of Portuguese
ports for a tlmo exceeding that given
neutrals; the permission given the
English navy to use Madeira as a
naval base; actual engagements be
tween Portugueso and German troops
on the frontier of German southwest
Africa and Angola; frequent insults
to the German nation by members of
the Portuguese parliament, who never
were reprimanded.
"Tho declaration further points out
that the seizure of the German ships
in neutral Portugueso ports on Feb
ruary 23 was an act against the law
and the treaties concluded between
Germany and Portugal."
Portugal Thirteenth Nation In War.
Tho rupture between Germany and
Portugal had been expected since Ger
many, after Portugal requisitioned
German merchantmen interned in her
ports, addressed an ultimatum to the
Portuguese government demanding
return of the ships.
Portugal Is the Thirteenth nation
to enter tho war. Her regular army
consists of 30,000 men with 1230,000 re
serves She is credited with a total
available strongth of about S70.000
men. Her navy is comparatively neg
ligible. oo
NEW SECRETARY
IS SWORN IN
Is Introduced to General Scott
and Most of Army Officers
Holds Informal Re
ception. Washington, March 9. Newton D.
Baker was sworn in today as secre
tary of war. The oath was adminis
tered by John Randolph, assistant
chief clork. Mr. Baker was accom
panied to the department by Secre
tary Daniels, who introduced him to
the staff officers there nnd to Gen
eral Scott, chief of staff.
Soon after taking the oath. Secre
tary Baker, held an informal reception
at bis office, whero he met most of
the army officers stationed In Washington.
GERMANS CAPTURE MANY FRENCH I
POSITIONS IN A NIGHT ATTACK I
Fortified Village of Fort Vaux and Adjoining Points Taken H
by Posen Regiments Violent Artillery Engagements H
Increase in Intensity on Both Sides French Recap- H
hire Trenches in Champagne Furious Gren-
ade Fighting Occurs JoffWs Troops
Holding Bethincourt.
London, March 9, 11:14a. m. German residents in H
Oporto and throughout Portugal have -been advised by their jH
consul to proceed to Spain immediately, according to a dis- H
patch to the Exchange Telegraph company ffom Lisbon. H
It is supposed, says the correspondent, that the diplomats MA
will leave this week, and that a rupture between Germany and 1H
Portugal is considered inevitable. 11
Paris, March 9, via London, l:21v
p. m. On the Verdun sector west of
tho Meuso the Trench have repulsed
repeated attacks on the village of
Bethincourt, according to a semi-official
statement made here today.
Paris, March 9, 3:43 p. m. The
Germans have been repulsed between
Douaumont and the village of Vaux,
after several heavy atacks accompa
nied by intense artillery fire and vio
lent Infantry assaults, according to
the French official statement which
says the attackers were completely
defeated after having penetrated the
village o Vaux.
The French official statement, issu
ed today, says:
"In the Argonne our artillery has
continued its bombardment of the en
emy's routes of communication, not
ably in the oastern Argonne and in
the region of Montfaucon and Nantil
lols. "West of the Meuse, the enemy at
tempted several counter attacks dur
ing the night to regain ground lost
yesterday. Two abortive attacks were
preceded by an intense artillery pre
paration directed against Bethincourt.
The attacks wore stopped by our bat
teries, which prevented the enemy
from debouching from the Corbeaux
wood. The renewed efforts of the en
emy have not been able to dislodge
us from the large stretch of territory'
which we have reconquered and con
solidated. "East of the Meuse, the struggle is
being carried on with great bitterness
since yesterday. At the end of the
evening and during the night, between
Douaumont and the village of Vaux,
the Germans directed several power
ful attacks. In spite of the intensity
of the artillery fire and the violence
of tho infantry assaults, the enemy
was unable to make any impression
on our line and has been completely
repulsed. Some detachments of Ger
man Infantry, which had penetrated
tho village of Vaux, were driven out
immediately at tho point of tho bay
onet by a counter attack.
"In the Woevre there has been an
intermittent bombardment on both
sides without any infantry action.
"In Lorraine, a surprise attack in
the Le Petre 'forest, resulted in the
capture by us of twenty prisoners."
Berlin, March 9, via London, 3:4a
r. m. The village and armored fort
of Vaux, uo-theast of Verdun, has
been captured by the Germans, the
war office announced today.
The announcement says that the
fortified village of Fort Vaux and
numerous adjoining fortified positions
were captured. Tho assault was made
In the night by Posen reserve regi
ments. The text of today's official state
ment follows:
"Artillery activity on both sides fre
quently increased to great violence.
"The French re-captured the west
ern part of a trench near the farm of
Maisons de Champagne where hand
grenade fighting occurred yesterday.
"West of the Meuse wo were occu
pied iu clearing out the rest of the
French troops remaining in the woods
of Corbeaux.
"East of tho, river, to shorten tho
connections between our positions
south of Douaumont and our lines in
the Woevro district, the village and
armored fort of Vaux, with numerous
adjoining fortified positions were cap
tured in a glorious night attack after
thorough artillery preparation, by the
Posen reserve regiments numbers six
and nineteen under the leadership of
the commander of the ninth reserve
division of infantry, General von Gur
ctzky Cornitz."
Aviators Win Fight.
"In a series of aerial engagements
in the neighborhood of Verdun our
aviators were victors. It is certain
that three enemy, aeroplanes were
shot down. All our aeroplanes re
turned safely. Several of their bravo
pilots were wounded. Troops in vil
lages west and southwest woro heav
ily bombarded.
"By the attack of a French aero
plane squadron within the radius of
the fortress of Metz two civilians
rere killed and several houses dam- iH
aged. In an aerial battle the machine "H
of the commander of the squadron HI
was shot down and the commander EB
captured. Tho observer was dead. i
RiiEslan Attacks Unsuccessful. fi
"Eastern theatre: Russian advances Ifil
against our advanced positions were
unsuccessful everywhere. vH
"Reports have been received that 11
railway establishments on the line to ;H
Misok, as well "as enemy troops in 'lH
Mir, were attacked by one of our air- jH
ships on the night of the 8th."
II
Syndicates Buy Mines. h
London. March 9, 3:10 a. m. A Pe- ;
trograd dispatch to the Times says ,!
that a representative of English and ? US
California syndicates has arrived from H
the Ural mountains, where ho bought H
at auction, 252 deposits of gold and H
platinum for a total sum of $15,000,- jH
000. H
Albanian Congress to Be Held. M
London, March 9, 3:45 a. m. A IH
Copenhagen dispatch quotes the Vos- jH
sische Zeitung as stating that an Al- H
banian congress will be hold in Sofia H
on March 15, to discuss the re-estab- H
lisment of an independent government H
In Albania, and as declaring that Bui- JM
garia approves this move, inasmuch. H
as it would hamper Italian aspirations H
In the Balkans. H
Steamships on Fire. Ill
London, March 9, 4:11 a. ra. A H
Lloyds dispatch from Malta says that H
the Peninsular and Oriental steam- jH
ship Nellore, with firo aboard, was H
beached, that the fire has been ex- H
tinguished and that passengers and iH
malls have been removed. H
ll
The Nellore was built in 1913 at H
Greenrock and is of 6853 gross tons 1
and 450 feet long. She was last re- M
ported shipping records as having M
sailed from Panang on February 12. jH
Great Fire In Prussia. IH
Amsterdam, via London, March 9, H
7 a. m. A great fire has destroyed H
warehouses and a large quantity of
merchandise at Muenchen-Gladbach, a jH
town in Rhenish Prussia. 16 miles H
southwest of Dusseldorf. The damage ffl
is extensive, according to German .!
newspapers received here. .M
More Called to Colors. -H
London, March 9, 4:30 a. m. Tho 'fl
newspapers announce this morning ,jM
that tho proclamation will be issued M
next week, calling to the colors mar- M
ried men between the ages of 27 M
and 35. 1
LONDON HEARS I
OF BIG FLEET I
Ships of Germans Were H
Painted War Grey and In- H
visible at Short Distance. H
London, March 9, 3:59 a. m. Ac- H
cording to accounts in the morning H
newspapers, regarding tho recent ac- JM
tlvity of the German fleet In tho HI
North Sea, tho fleet included about
fifty craft of all descriptions, from Ml
tho most modern dreadnoughts down KJ
to old fashioned torpedo boats. The M
fleet was escorted by two Zeppelins, jH
which served as scouts to prevent a H
surprise attack by hostile vessels. jH
One trawler sighted this fleet 165 H
miles due west of Uie mouth of tho
Elbe. Anothor saw it thirty-five milos jH
northwest of Ymulden. All the Ger- H
man ships were painted a war grey H
and were invisible at a short distance. m
One Dutch trawler Is quoted as hav- hk
ing roported that during the recent H
air raid on England a ZPPj" H
scene scouting- in advance of three H
cruisers and a fleet of destroyers, and l
submarines, which were Relieved to.
havo the intention of making a daBhj H
for English waters. !
