I
|iS
1
SSI
•ywit
VOL. XXXV—NO. 46.
The meeting of citizens and mem
bers of the Commercial club at the
club's room Saturday evening was well
attended. After an executive session
of the board of directors, Lee Combs,
in the absence of President Peake,
called the assembly to order and stat
ed the object of the meeting. Follow
ing this Otto Neumann presided as
chairman. Several present were call
ed upon to discuss matters pertaining
to the welfare of the club, but it was
found that the point to be settled
could not be passed upon just yet by
the directors and there will be another
meeting called in the near future and
due notice will be given in the news
papers. Meanwhile the board with the
assistance of others will have all nec
essary information to lay before the
meeting.
HE PROFITED $3,000 BY
DELAYING THRESHING
Mandan, March 3.—The luck of An
ton Kathrein, of New England, who
made $3,000 from his wheat crop be
cause he was delayed in his threshing
until the price was at the high point,
does not hold good with all the farm
ers of western North Dakota.
A large number were holding their
wheat for $1.25, local price, and as
a result of the recent drop in prices
are thousands of dollars losers. One
local farmer held 4,000 bushels for a
$1.25 market, and passed up $1.24 a
bushel. Today 93 cents was offered.
The majority are however holding
their wheat for another rise in prices.
Wheat Raisers Will Benefit
Washington, March 2—North Dakota
wheat raisers will benefit by increas
ed appropriations carried in the agri
cultural appropriation bill which will
be reported to the house within a few
days. The bill carries special items of
$10,000 for an investigation of striped
and black weeds in the spring wheat
belt to determine a method for control
ling and eradicating them.
A total of $325,000 is provided for the
control of hog cholera, serums and vir
uses and for demonstration of methods
of control and eradication of hog chol
era. An increase of $100,000 is made
in the appropriation for farm demon
stration, to be applied in the north to
educating the boys in hog cholera and
girls in canning, and also demonstrat
ing domestic science on farms. Five
thousand dollars is provided for the
maintenance of Scully Hill park in
North Dakota.
Commercial Club Meeting Was
WeD Attended Saturday Night
Representative Helgesen made a
fight to eliminate the special appropria
tion for the eradication of the cotton
•weevil, and to consolidateth at and oth
er appropriations under the head of
farm demonstration. The committee
refused to do this, however, for fear
of a fight by the southern members
when the bill reached the house.
White Slavery Traffic Ended
Jamestown, March 4.—White slave
traffic in Jamestown got a jolt when
Harry Lancaster, at least that is the
name he gave Judge Murphy, was
bound over to the district court in
$1,000 bonds to await the next term of
district court. In lieu of the bond he
is now in the county jail.
A woman from Valley City was also
held under $500 bonds and as she was
unable to find this much change upon
her person she, too, now abides with
the sheriff temporarily. A young
woman, taken with the trio, was sent
to her parents in the country.
A local hotel has been the scene of
operations of the couple, it is said, but
the activity of the local officers was
responsible for the arrest and the
party being broken up.
It is asserted that it is now safe for
a young girl to come here from the
country and be at least reasonably
safe.
P. E. 0. Elects Officers
The P. B. O. held a meeting Monday
afternoon at the home of Mrs. Van
Houten and the following officers were
elected: Mrs. G. W. Hanna, presi
dent Mrs. Anna Sternberg, vice presi
dent Mrs. Harvey Pray, recording
secretary 'Mrs. Lome Ritchie, trea
surer.
COMPLAINTS FROM NORTH
DAKOTANS LAND MAN IN JAIL
Chicago, March 4.—Complaints from
North Dakota farmers*resulted today
in the arrest of Gus Snyder, who is
said to have defrauded them by offer
ing his services if they would send him
railroad fare.
Frank Ratliff, who lives near Car
penter, N. D., complained to the pos
tal authorities that he sent Snyder $15
for transportation, but that Snyder
never appeared.
Snyder was arrested when he called
at the general delivery window for
mail addressed to John Small. Hear
ing was set for March 14.
H. E. McCready returned Saturday
from a week's buying trip at Cassel
ton, Rogers and Tower City.
New Secretary of War
Is Named by President
Washington, March 6.—Newton D.
Baker, former mayor of Cleveland,
Ohio, has been selected by President
Wilson for secretary of war. Baker
has accepted the position and is now
arranging his affairs in Cleveland pre
paratory to coming to Washington to
take up his duties. The selection of
Baker is understood to have been dis
cussed by the president with Colonel
House soon after the latter's arrival
here.
When the president .was making his
cabinet in 1913 he offered the place oi
secretary of the interior to Baker
twice. Baker was then mayor of
Cleveland and declined for that reason.
The president and Baker have been
friends for some time and have cor
responded frequently. When the pres
ident was touring the middle west on
his preparedness program he saw Bak
er in Cleveland and had a long talk
with him.
Ever since Lindley Garrison resign
ed the president has been seeking a
middle western lawyer for the place.
The thirty day period for which Maj.
Gen. Hugh Scott, chief of staff, was
designated secretary of war ad interim,
will expire March 11. It is believed
that Baker's nomination will be sent
to the senate before that time.
Baker is 44 years old and was born
in Martinsburg, W. Va. At the age of
25 he was private secretary to Post
master General Wilson in President
Cleveland's cabinet. In 1897 he began
the (practice of law at Martinsburg,
but not long thereafter moved to Cleve
land, where he became city solicitor
in 1902. He held this office for ten
years, until his election as mayor.
Baker has received the degrees of
John Hopkins and Washington and
Lee universities. For years he has
been closely identified with the reform
movement in Cleveland. When Mayor
Tom Johnson died Baker took up the
fight for lower street car fares in
Cleveland.
Kg Damage Suit on at Minot
Minot, March 5.—H. H. Kemper,
formerly president of the Citizen's
State bank of this city, through his at
torneys, E. R. Sinkler and H. L. Hal
vorson, has filed suit in the district
court of Ward county against Peter
Ehr for damages aggregating $110,000.
The alleged grounds of damage are
two arrests of the plaintiff in the dam
age case up on the instigation of the
defendant, as he alleges, charging him
with embezzlement and upon both of
which charges the plaintiff in the
damage suit was acquitted upon trial.
NIELSON NOMINATED FOR CADET
Washington, March 6.—Represent*
tive George M. Young of North Dakota
today submitted the following nomin
ations to the navy department for a
cadetship at the Annapolis naval
academy. Principal, Henry S. Niel
son, Buchanan alternates, Ralph Lan
dis, Wolford Fred L. Olson, James
town Willard L. Isaacs, Buchanan.
These selections were made as a re
suit of competitive examination re
cently held at Jamestown.
Mr. and Mrs. Hans Skonnord, of
Grand Prairie, are "Baby Week" en
thusiasts, since the arrival of a daugh
ter Sunday morning. They are at the
home of Mrs. Skonnord's parents, Mr.
and Mrs. John McKay.
-it *i/Vt
Death of J. A. Tyler
Occurred at St. Peter
Word was received in this city Tues
day morning of the death of J. A. Ty
ler, at the home of his parents in St.
Peter, Minn. The funeral will be held
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Mr. Tyler was for many years a resi
dent of Valley City, conducting the
Tyler studio on Main street. He leaves
many friends here to .whom his death
will be a real loss, and the" family and
friends have the sympathy of the com
munity in this bereavement.
T. Melvin Lee spent Sunday in Bis
marck, where he went to see Ex-Gov
ernor White, who is in the Bismarck
hospital. He says Mr. White is not
yet in condition to have the X-ray
examination. He is in a serious con
dition but great hopes are entertained
for his recovery.
North Dakotan Figures
in Community Uplift
Alfred G. Arvold, of the North Da
kota Agricultural college, has joined
with about 70 leaders in the commun
ity center movement in signing a call
for a national conference on the use
of school buildings as community and
civic centers. The conference will be
held in New York City beginning April
19 and ending April 22. Its president
is Dr. Luther H. Gulick, president of
the Camp Fire Girls of America.
Among others signing the call are Pro
fessor John Dewey of Columbia Uni
versity, Mrs. J. Borden Harriman,
Charles McCarthy of Wisconsin, Henry
Bruere, city chamberlain of New York,
Edward J. Ward of the United States
bureau of education, George E. Vin
cent, president of the University of
Minnesota, C.
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAiKOTA, THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1916.
A leading note of the conference will
be the financing of social activities in striving .to hold them back. Several
school buildings. These activities, in
various cities, include social dancing,
dramatics, vocational guidance, com
munity orchestras, citizenship train
ing, co-operative purchase and health
teaching. The conference will hear a
report giving all experience to date in
the development of self-supporting
community work in school 'buildings.
Other divisions will consider the im
migrant, the community clinic, the
problem of recreation, the architecture
of school buildings, various phases of
co-operative art including drama, page
antry and community singing, and the
use of art forms in the development
of rural life activities.
It is expected that community work
ers from all parts of the country will
attend the conference. Among the
speakers will be Professor Franz Boas,
Dr. James Ford of Harvard, Edward
J. Ward of the bureau of education,
Washington, Alfred G. Arvold, founder
of The Little Country Theatre of North
Dakota, Frederic C. Howe, commission
er of immigration of New York, Sid
ney A. Teller, playground organizer
of Chicago, Dr. Haven Emerson, com
missioner of health of New York Cliy,
and Percy Mackaye, dramatist and
pageant builder. The discussions of
the conference will be given point
Bismarck Gas Plant
Ready by December
Bismarck, March 5. Bismarck's
first gas.plant will be in operation, sup
plying consumers, by the first of De
cember, if plans announced this week
by Frank E. Ployhar of Valley City do
not go astray.
Mr. Ployhar was in the city this
week making arrangements for the
beginning of construction work on the
plant. A site was tentatively selected
on the Northern Pacific right-of-way,
in the eastern part of the city, and
the structural steel and other mate
rial will be on the ground within a
month.
The Valley City gas man is confi
dent that gas will be turned into the
mains not later than Dec. 1, although
in the meantime an army of laborers
must work like beavers to get every
thing in readiness.
BANKING CAPITAL
Effective February twenty-ninth—which
has been named "PROSPERITY DAY"-the
Capital Stock of this Bank is increased from
$35,000.00 to ....$50,000.00
its Surplus is 25,000.00
Its Undivided Profits 10 200.00
Making Total Banking Capital $85,200.00
This is $50,200.00 more than when we start
ed ten and one-half years ago. Among the
653 banks now operating under charters
granted by the state of North Dakota, we are
now in third place in Banking Capital.
Our total Resources are now $457,405.10, of
which $248,678.64 are Cash Resources.
Blank of Valley City
Report Turkey Seeks
Separate Settlement
London, March 4, (Saturday).—The
morning newspapers feature dispatch
es from Athens which say that agita
tion in Constantinople in favor of
peace is becoming so pronounced that
it would surprise no one if Turkey
suddenly capitulated to the entente
allies. It is said that Rachmi Bey,
governor of Vilayet of Smyrna, is try
ing to arrange separate terms with the
entente.
London, March 3.—Around the vil
lage of Douaumont, which is in the
hands of the Germans, is raging a
battle of great intensity. Having cap
tured the village and extended their
lines west and south, the Germans
were forced to give ground before
Kelso, secretary of vicious attacks of the French who re-
the Civic Center League of Los gained part of the terrain they had
Angeles, and Meyer Bloomfield, direc- lost.
tor of the Vocational Bureau, Boston.
The executive chairman of the confer-
ence is Albert Shiels, director of the court, west of the Meuse, to the
division of research of the New York! Woevre region east of Verdun, the
board of education. The secretary of bombardments are of a violent nature,
the conference is John Collier, 70 the Germans endeavoring to force
Fifth Avenue, New York.
The fighting' here is proceeding un
abated. From the region of Malan-
their way closer to the fortress of
Verdun and the French tenaciously
assembling points of ihe Germans
have been vigorously shelled by the
French, especially in the vicinity of
Beaumont.
The Germans admit that in the re
gion of Ypres the British recaptured
positions the Germans took from them
Feb. 14, but say the British were im
mediately driven out of most of them.
The British, however, declared they
have consolidated these positions.
An official statement from the
Turkish army headquarters says the
east and the west coast districts of
Aden have come under Ottoman rule
as a result of the submission of the
tribesmen.
through reports which Will be print
ed in advance, prepared by commit
tees charged with responsibility tor
various phases of the work.
Those signing the call for the con
ference state their belief that "a vital
contact between workers and a discus
sion focalized through reports care
fully prepared in advance, will have
the effect of enriching the experience
of all those engaged in the community
movement and of clarifying the phil
osophy and defining the ultimate pro
gram.
...^j, M--. vi.,.- 7
I
'tr
STATE FINANCIAL GAINS
LARGER THAN REPORTED
A study of bank statistics show that
since the year 1900, North Dakota has
made wonderful gains. In 1900 this
state had only 207 banks, now she has
804. In 1900 the total deposits in
North Dakota banks amounted to only
$14,732,000 while now the total is
$121,001,000. An interesting fact is
shown when we consider that in the
15 years, 1900-1915, with the exception
of two, North Dakota has shown more
total deposits in her banks than South
Dakota, and this notwithstanding the
fact that her sister state is older and
has, to within the past two or three
years, had more people.
Corn Situation Should
Now Have Attention
Grand Forks, March 1.—Just now
one of the most important matters
that can be taken up in North Da
kota in connection with its farm work
is the corn situation. North Dakota
must grow an increased acreage of
corn the coming season. If she is to
do this, two things must be urged in
every community, first, the fact that
last year's abnormal season was uni
versal and that North Dakota raised
a larger percentage of her corn crop
than many of the so called corn states
and that therefore no one should be
discouraged because of last year's ex
perience, and second, that because of
last year's unsatisfactory conditions,
seed corn must be tested.
The corn situation is having atten
tion all over the country. The gov
ernor of Minnesota is making a spe
cial appeal to Minnesota farmers to
test seed corn and increase their corn
acreage. All of the corn states are
alive and active and North Dakota
must not be behind.
As* a single crop and also in rota
tions, corn ranks above any of the
small grain crops in the profit per
acre where the stover and grain are
both used, according to experiments
at the North Platte Experimental sub
station. That corn leaves the soil in
a condition which favors profit from
the succeeding crop adds to its value.
Spring whe^t ranks next to corn and
gives the most profit when it follows
corn in a rotation.
In Grand Forks county in 1913 there
were harvested 25,790 bushels of corn.
In 1914 this was raised to 64,946 bush
els, the 1915 figures are not yet avail
able, but it is hoped to put this rec
ord well over the 100,000 bushel mark
this coming season.
Every agency interested in farm
work should constantly urge the test
ing of seed corn as it is possible if
seed all over the state is thoroupghly
tested to add a million dollars to the
value of the North Dakota crop.
Remembered Pastor's Birthday
The Young People's society of the
Lutheran Free church held their usual
meeting on Friday evening in the
church parlors, with an additional good
time at the finish. After the program
the society surprised their pastor, Rev.
E. S. Solheim, by presenting him with
a beautiful boquet of roses, in honor
of his birthday. The reverend gentle
man responded with a few words of
thanks, greatly appreciating the spirit
that prompted the gift. And then the
refreshments were served, and from
all reports they were mighty good, the
hostess of the evening being Mrs. C.
Bonde. At a late hour the party came
to an end, everyone wishing their pas
tor many happy returns of the day.
The dance given by the Rebekahs
Monday night was attended by about
50 couples, who seem to have enjoyed
a pleasant evening. The Haering or
chestra furnished the music and the
crowd stayed until about 1:30, even
then regretting the fact that the affair
was at an end. The ladies served a
buffet lunch in the dining room, a very
good and substantial repast being en
joyed.
Rev. and Mrs. L. S. Eberly joined
the rapidly growing list of those who
celebrated "Baby Week" in the true
manner Sunday morning when a baby
daughter arrived at their home.
Directors of Chautauqua
Held Important Meeting
ESTABLISHED 1»7t.
The board of directors of the Valley
City Chautauqua association held a
successful meeting at its office in the
Commercial club rooms Monday night.
In spite of the fact that a popular bas
ket ball game was in progress and sev
eral important private social functions,
the large majority of the board was
present, and a most enthusiastic and
successful meeting was the result.
Officers were elected for the current
year as follows:
President—James A. Grady.
Vice President—Dr. S. A. Zimmer
man.
Second Vice President—Rev. J. F. L.
Bonhoff.
Treasurer—Otto P. Neumann.
Clerk—H. E. Taylor.
The executive committee for the
year remains as last year, viz.:
C. C. Chaffee
Jas. A. Grady
S. A. Zimmerman
E. A. Pray
Otto P. Neumann
The program committee is at work
and reported progress. This commit
tee is holding weekly meetings and
considerable very interesting talent
has already been employed. Corres
pondence is in progress with Rev.
Newell Dwight Hillis, the Ben Greet
Outdoor Players, The Chicago Opera
company, Cap's Orchestra, and other
important numbers.
It was decided to again conduct the
girls' encampment, the boys' encamp
ment and the dairy school. The board
feels that these features are especially
educational and more fully than any
other feature realize the ideals of the
chautauqua assembly. These features
will be enlarged and the best leaders
in the state secured, if possible, to con
duct them.
Old settlers' day .will this year be
one of the most interesting features of
the entire assembly. The Old Settlers
and Chautauqua will work in entire
harmony, producing a program that
ought to attract the attention of every
citizen of Barnes county. A commit
tee also was appointed to co-operate
with the fair officials, so that these
two important institutions may consoli
date their energies wherever possible.
Treasurer Neumann made a financial
report, which was very encouraging
to members of the board who have
been interested in the finances of the
institution. The board feels that at
the end of two years the assembly
ought to have all of its pledges col
lected and if so, it will be out of debt
and have a fine property to the good.
Sub-committees were appointed to
take charge of the different lines of
work preparatory to the assembly. An
office force was arranged for and the
board itself .will be in session every
two weeks until the assembly begins.
The board adjourned to meet on Mon
day evening, March 20.
Falls and Breaks Wrist
Walks Back to Her Home
Mrs. Malena Jensen, who lives with
her daughter, Mrs. Olaf Olsby, on
Third avenue, started to attend the
Ladies' Aid at the Lutheran Free
church Thursday afternoon and had al
most reached the door of the church
when she slipped on the icy walk and
fell, breaking the right arm and dis
locating the wrist. She was four
blocks from home, and after some
trouble in getting up, she walked back
to her home, no one having seen her
fall or coming to her, aid. She is as
comfortable as can be expected after
such an accident, she being 81 years
of age. It is not so much the pain of
the accident as the tediousness of re
covery, as the aged lady has always
taken such comfort in her sewing and
this injury to arm and wrist will make
the hours pass slowly. She has been
a resident of Valley City for 36 years
and has many friends who will extend
sympathy.
Mrs. M. R. Nelson entertaied a num
ber of lady friends Friday evening at
her home on North Fifth avenue. There
were three tables of 500 and an even
ing of pleasure was spent. The high
trophy was won by Mrs. Platou, while
Mrs. J. J. Engen took consolation. At
a late hour the hostess served a dain
ty three-course luncheon, the menu be
ing carried out in brown and white ef
fect. Miss Florence Engen and Misa
Amanda Skretting assisted in serving*
MS
