M CO
IT
EEALD.
VOLUME XI?.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1916.
NUMBER 10
PUTNA
T"TV Tr fO"l 7
y 11 t i
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 tf.M t It
THE IDEAL RURAL
' COMMUNITY
No one who has any proper regard
for himself and his family desires to
live in a community woere there are
no schools and churches. Schools
and churches, therefore, are the very
foundation and hub of all rural com
munity life. The head of the school
and the church are the teacher and
the preacher. The constituent parts
of the community is complete in the
homes and the people; that is, the
the necessary constituent parts of the
ideal community are the nhurch, the
school, the pastor,' the teacher, the
people, and their homes. This much
is easy to see and understand. The
conclusion Is also clear that in order
to attain the ideal in rural communi
ty life, each, constituent part of the school. School days constitute a dls
eommunity must be maintained at the tinct period in the lifo of everyone,
very highest degree of efficiency and , and it has often been said, and per
perfection. In other words, in order haps with reason, that school days
to attain to that standard of perfec- j are the happiest days of life. Cer
tion in rural life which we term the j tainly comfortable, convenient, and
ideal, the community must have an beautiful surroundings, together with
ideal church, an ideal school, an
" ideal pastor, an ideal teacher, an ideal
people, 'and ideal homes., How to ap
proach this ideal is the problem or
rural life. - Between the ideal and
cond'tions as they actually are in
most rural communities is a vast
range of effort and experiment and
differences In opinion. Like the sen
timent of the popular song sung by
the British soldier boys at the front,
it is a long, long way to the ideal;
we may, and most likely will never
attain to it; but we can approach it.'
The question and the problem of the
day is, how? The answer Is found,
In our opinion, embodied in two words
cooperation and equipment Let
us examine the relationship between
cooperation and equipment, and
Te Ideal Church
Of course we would not take the
position that cooperation and equip
ment are all that are necessary to con
stitute an ideal church, viewed es
pecially from a denominational stand
point The first thing necessary from
that standpoint is that it be founded
upon principles of truth as contained
in the Bible. But assuming that the
church of any particular commun'ty
is sound in doctrine, we are ready to
study the relationship exi ting be
tween the ideal church and that of
cooperation and fequipmjen)L
What we mean by church equip
ment is the comfort, convenience, and
beauty of its house of worship. All
three are essential to its prpoer work
and unquestionably add to the proper
spirit of the membership. Assuming,
as we mast In order to approach the
Ideal in the community, that the !
homes of the community are all more attain these Ideals. The answer Is
or less comfortable, convenient, and Iound to one word cooperation. On
beautiful, we can Imagine the feelings ! Iy by cooperation of the people ma
that must tone over the people M 'they obtain . the equipment of which
they feel "the change of atmosphere I we speak, especially of equipment of
from' a comfortable, convenient, and a co111011. r public nature, such aa
beautiful home to that of an uncom-' church house, school house, and good
fortable, inconvenient, and unattroct- j road8, Wlth Vper cooperation
hre church house. The bad effect of j among all the people, uncrer average
thfc contrast will be especially notice i conditions the proper equipment .may
al le 'among the young, but it will al-
so be felt by the older folks. Bean-jment
tlful, convenient and 'comfortable
ehurch bouses are a necessity In our
effort to approach the ideal in the
community life. The Influence of the
proper equipment of the church win
not only be felt in the church life, but
it will be felt throughout the common-
ltv life. An idA&l rhnnh Ufa-la no-,
essary to Ideal community life, prop- preacher and the teacher should be 'KOod citizenship, and the required
er church equipment Is essential to that they can assume their "daily gooA turn-" Mr. West gave
the Ideal community. : proper place as tne real leaders of ' lptere8t,n "lustrations of the ser
. The church is not aa Ideal church, thought and action in the community. I88 Per,ornied bf "couts for - their
t. ... . '. d i. .j.. v. v . .. i communities.
uunvver, luitu II ow real cooperation, -v ' uiov uio auuioiw auu Ui
that is, team work. What is the uso ' teacher may enter into the full spirit
of putting two, four, or eight horses ,0' church, school, and community oo
to a load unless they all pull? One 'operation they must have their homes
horse can pull more than two horses. In the community. The time has
it the two horses do not pull togeth- co e In the problem of rural life
er. Pulling together Is what we call
team work, cooperation. It Is the to be of the most service to their con
same as to churches.' , They hare stltuency must be able to set an ex
loads to pull. The Lord did not es- ample in bom making, and they must
t&MIsh his church for ornamental he able to assume a real leadership
-purposes, but to do something useful, . ,n church, school and community or
to evangelise the world, and to pro ganisation. The time has come when
mote righteousness. The Ideal church'
has cooperation and takes pride In
the size of the load it pulls for the
Master's sake. The simple meanine
of church cooperation Is that pastor
and members have a common purpose
and that they all do their proportion-
ate part : in every task which the
cuuiwi huuoii.&u. xxui inert 10
broader term than churcli cooperation,
and that is church and community co-
operation, and we mean by this that
condition where the church and the
community are coextensive, where
ach aad every, family are in sympa-
thy with the church, a community
whose adults are all members of the
church and whose children are taugnt
the Word of God in the church's Sun
day school. Such cooperation as this
last is a long step toward the ideal
community life. - Furthermore, this
begins to reveal to us some of the
things necessary to be done if. wo
would make our community an ideal
one. Is there a family in it who is
not in sympathy with the church? or
whose children are not in Sunday
school? There are no divisions in
the Ideal. As long as a community
is divided In its church loyalty and
cooperation, so long will the commun
ity fall short of the ideal, and so long
will there be an obstacle to overcome.
The Ideal School.
All. that has been said with refer
ence to the church equipment and
church cooperation will apply to the
the comradeship of cooperation will
add to the happiness of school days
as well as the influence they will ex
ert upon after life. . ,
The Home and Its Surroundings
What makes land that produces 40
bushels of corn per acre sell for $ 200
in one community and only $100 In
another community? It cannot be the
difference in productivity, because if
that were altogether the standard of
value, it would sell for the same. Th0
answer to this question is growing
more complex. While the answer to
this question will include the church
and the school together, with their
equipment and cooperative spirit, it
will include the character of the
homes, their comfort, their conven
ience, their appearance; it will in
clude their other farm improvements,
8uch as barns, fencing, and state of
cultivation; and reaching still beyond
these conditions, it will comprehend
the question of roads, a question that
enters into every question of real es
tate value and of home building, be
cause no community can' overcome
the handicap of baa roads by any
short cut or anything else except that
of taking the matter in hand andbuild
Ing good roads. Every church and
school and home ought to be a good
roads booster and enthusiast, because
the time has come when the success
of all three depend very' largely upon
good roads. This one question, as
much as anything else, is at the bot
tom and will be at the solving of the
country church problem of the South.
But suppose we start out with a com
munity that has not risen to the ideals
outlined herein. How may It hope to
j 06 had, and when the proper equip -
has been acquired, a oontinua -
' tlon ' this cooperative spirit, Individ-!
ually and collectively, privately and
publicly, from the various standpoints
of church, school and home, will con-
tribute largely. to make of any coin-
,munity wnat we have termed herein
itne ,deal community, And in this
snward progress toward th ideal 'th
when minister and teacher, in order -
Preacher and teacher should be able.ftot back home from the HawallansT
to lead and teach in rural life eco j
homlcs as well as theology and 'ped -
agogy. In other words, in order to!
approach the Ideal In rural co-mun-
ty life, the development must bej
along three lines, namely, spiritual j
service In church life, the cultural
uctwuiucui m mc iuiuu m auouui r
life, and last the economic develop-
meat of all material resources. The
treat thought to vary the expression,
which we are seekmg to clothe in
words that may be clearly understood,
ta that thrift is a virtue, and when
PRESIDENT WILSON RECEIVES
BOY SCOUT COUNCIL.
Leaders in Session After the Sixth
Success 'ul Year of the Movement
On Feb. 10, 1916, Pre3. Wilson, who
recently wrote, "Whenever I see a
group of Boy Scouts I am proud of
their manliness and feel cheered by
the knowledge of what their organi
zation represents," received the mem
bers of the National Council of the
Boy Scouts of America in the East
Room at the White House and spoke
to them of his high regard for the
work they are doing for the "men or
tomorrow.'
The President learned that the rec
ords show an increase of 46 per cent
in membership in the past year an!
that there were on December 31, 182,
622 men and boyg officially registered
at the National Headquarters in New
York. The figures in themselves
were a splendid testimonial to the vi
rility and the definite promise of per
manence of the Movement "which,
"illed bv some "anothor fad" when
it started six years ago, has .exown
steadily and solidly ever since,
The
year just closed, as the records show -
ed, wag the most prosperous in the
movement's history.
"More encouraging than the in
crease in numbers and clearer undar
stand'ng of the purpose of Scouting,
is 'the evidenco of the Increased bene
fits to boys through the Scouting pro
gram," said the Chief Scout Execu
tive. He quoted the report of the
National Court of Honor, which show
ed that in the past year Scouts had
earned 146,178 badges for proficiency
as compared with 101,197 badges earn
ed in 1914.
Scouts Enjoy Woodcraft
Woodcraft as represented by manv
of the requirements for second and
first-class rank and tho requirements
for such merit badges as camping,
bird study, pioneering, stalking, path
finding, astronomy, arcnery, conser
vation, forestry, etc., 13 shown to be
well in the lead in the interest of
boys engaged in Scouting. The Chief
scout, executive continued:
"These Scouts not only learn to
apprec'ate the beauties or nature ana
to understand the fundamental and
most important processes of nature,
but, following the Scouting program,
they learn the relation of these things
to humanity to the enjoyment oi
life, to economics, to industry and
in that way obtain a clearer idea than
they could obtain In any other way
of the opportunities open to all citi
zens to use properly, and not destroy,
th9 country's natural resources.
Learning Citizenship
"Equally significant," he continued,
"is the splendid record made In such
merit badge subjects as first aid, nre
manship, conservation, nubile health
personal health, life saving and civ
ics, for this shows the fulfillment or
the Scout Movement's desire to equip
boys for efficient citizenship; whilo
the increased number of badges a
warded for proficiency in music, paint
ing, business, gardening handicraft,
leather working, architecture, agri
culture, craftsmanship, chemistry,
blacksmithing, , forestry, carpentrv
and such subjects proves that the
Scout Movement is giving training of
' real vocational value, helping the boy
jto find his inclination and aptitude
and also to understand better what
men and i achines do In the work
of the world. This training, as all
now know. Is one of the distinguish
ing features of the scout program
and is commended everywhere."
Special emphasis was laid on the
development of character, patriotism,
MONTEREY ROUTE 3
Lora Suttle, I received your card
and would ' be glad- to see yen all.
Ethel has been with us all last week.
i , Burt and her are expecting to go to
housekeeping before long. She says
she is getting tired of boarding. .
Mrs. Wheeler Bilbrey who has been
very low. is improving.
' little Ollle Bell Ray visited the wri
ter's bore last night
Wonder if McMlllln Judu has ever
Verna and Pearl .Bilbrey went to
0,10 Springs thls 'Tnorntng. 1
Jtal Phfllips of Cliff Springs was
,6611 on hte may to nm this morn
'ngl
Lavaca Bilbrey.
- Read "The Girl and the Game" and
tiuw mm it at th Strand Theare. . . -
combined with splrtual development
and mental culture the three togeth-was
er will solve the rural problem and ,
save to blest the world the old coun-
try church. Judge Sam Edwards, in
The Little Baptist
DEMOCRATIC MA8S MEETING j TEACHER 8 MEETING.
A mass meeting of Putnam county) The regular, monthly teacher's
Democrats is hereby called to meet' meeting will be held at the Cooke
In the courthouse in Cookeville, Tenn.. I ville city school building on Satur
on Monday, April 3, 1916, at one o'-jday, March 18, beginning promptly
clock p. m. for the purpose of elect -
ing delegates to the state convention
to assemble in Nashville on May 17,
1916, and to transact any other busl-
ness that may properly come before
the meeting.
March 8, 1916.
C. H. Rickman, Ch'm.
WEDDING ANNOUNCED
Mr. and Mrs. Jere Whitson an
nounce the marriage of their daugh
ter, Mary Alice, to Mr. BoDert W.
Lowe on March v 14, 1916, at the
Church of Chrbt, Cookeville. Tho
contracting parties are among the
most prominent young people of our At last meeting there were 65 pres
city and the event is of great inte-, ent , If you were not there, you are
rest to their host of friends.
ACCIDENTALLY KILLED
Willard Clarence Garrison, son of
Mrs. Dank Garrison of near Cooke
ville wa3 accidentally killed at the
Odd Fellows Home in Clarksville on
; Monday evening. He was playing In
! the yard and came In contact withlof making a gpecial drink. He says
a telephone wire that had fallen
over a live electric light wire, kill
ing him instantly. He was born
May 19, 1905, and had been in the
home about three weeks.
REPUBLICAN MASS MEETING
The Republicans yof Putnam coun
ty are hereby called to meet in the
Courthouse at Cookeville, at 1 o'
clock on Saturday, March 18th, 1916,
for the purpose of electing delegates
to th Republican Stare Convention
at Nashville, Tenn., May 3rd, 1916,
and to such other Republican con
ventions as may be called, and to
transact such other business as may
propei ly come before it ' '
March 4th. 1916.
2t Norman Massa, Chairman.
TULLAHOMA GET3 8CHOOL
The vocational school for girls that
was created bv the last lee'nlatnre has
t been ,ocated at 0 ttat clty
j giving 200 acres of land and other
considerations to secure the school
Several places put in a bid for the
school. " . . ,
.NEGRO LYNCHED IN LEBANON.
Sunday night Robert Nolan, chief
of police at Lebanon wa3 shot by Will
Whitley, a negro he was trying to ar
rest for bootlegging and died Monday
i night. About an hour after his death
a mob took the negro out of Jail and
hung him to a tree on ' the public
square.
THROWN-FROM TRAIN
G. M. Rogers, a Tennessee Central
freight conductor was thrown froin
his train near Baxter Thursday night
by two negro tramps and painfully
injured, falling down a fill, and being
rendered unconscious. He had or
dered the negroes off his train, but
they seized him and hurled him
from the top of a box car.
TRENTON, TEXAS
Having read so many good letters
In the Herald makes me want ti write
a little. Health here is good and ev
ery body Is very busy preparing their
land for another crop. The severe
cold weather has badly damaged the
wheat Teachers and pupils - are
busy preparing for the close of school
, The Preachers are preaching the
end of time is near at hand as the
war is getting almost every nation
involved. It may be near at hand,
and It may not be, but the one thing
is to know we areready. How I wish
I could impress every sinner to be
saved, that they might enjoy the
pleasure of religion here, then it wll
be a joy to think of the second com
ing of Christ The angelg in Hea
ven know not the day nor the hour.
Our Saviour says be ready. I have
so many on my mind that are not
saved and have lived in the gospel
land so long some of their heads are
gray. Jeaua . died for them and
stands with outstretched hands deed
ing, and saying come unto me all that
are weary and heavy laden and I wil
give you rest." I hope If there la
any one that reads this that U not
saved, that they may be. .
The writer and family ' en joyed a
day with A. P. Jared and family last
week. . ,
Carrick. Robblnsand sisters Oracle
and Gladys visited Mr. and Mrs- Lem
Yates Saturday. .
Mrs. Tate's mother, Mrs. Smith,
visited her Saturday.
I kindly ask friends and relat'ves
to remember me the 23 of March with
a shower of birthday cards, yon don't
know how much I will enjoy them, t
showered here at home , last
March with cards and presents from
neighbors .and school girls. Address
Mrs. E. G. Robbtaes, Trenton, Tex-,
Route 1-
The program Is as
follows:
From Br oker's Agriculture.
j 1. Nature Study. T. W. Kittrell,
20 minutes.
2. What is Elementary Agricul
ture, and Agriculture aa a Means of
Education. Blair Harrison, 30 min
utes. From Lincoln's Every Day Pedagogy
1. Morning Exercises. J.' N. Wal
lace, 20 minutes.
2. Arithmetic. A. A.
minutes.
Taylor, 25
3. Rearding, Dictionary Study and
Spelling.
T. K. Slsk, 25 minutes.
much in the minority. We keep
record of attendance. Rcspt.
J. M. Hatfield, Co. Supt.
MONTEREY ITEMS
Mr. T. E. Goff is to open up a new
bottling plant on Commercial Ave.,
hv th firs! nf Anril for th( niirnnup
he will make mention of the name
of this special drink. later.
Ford Hicks i? contemplating ir a Ic
ing an addition to his rooming house
and restaurant. He sold 150J0
bowls of soup last year, which is an
average of some over 40 bowl3 per
day business flourishing.
Mrs. Mollle Dahufl", who has been
It
here several weeks with her steter,
Mrs. Gertie Bias, who has been very
low of pellagra, left for ner home at
Nashville Tuesday. She was accom
panied by Mrs. Bia3 who will take
treatment while there.
Virgil C. Allison, son of Mr. Bird
P. , Allison, who has been studying
law at Cumberland University, Leba
non, for the past two years, passed
the state bar examination that was
held at Nashville in January. Toung
Allison is a Monterey boy and de
serves much honor for being the
most efficient student In his class,
and being one of the 39 out of the
69 that passed the examination. He
is a 32 degree and Royal Arch Ma.
son, . being Master of the Monterey
Lodge No. 626. He will for the pre
ent practice his profession here, hav
ing his office over the post office.
News
SUCCESSFUL 8ALE
The auction sale of Aberdeen cat
tie held in Cookeville by W. E,
Burns of Clinton, Iowa, last Friday
was a success despite the fact that
tne day was one of the roughest of
the winter and the crowd small.
Twenty-three head brought $2,211.
The highest price was $160 and the
lowest, for the yearling, $50. J. .T.
Coyle of Huntsvllle, Ala., assisted in
managing the sale, while Harvy Coe
of Lebanon was the auctioneer. The
Aberdeen3 are splendid beef cattle
and our farmers are to be congratu
lated upon their desire to secure bei
ter stock. Improvement is the or
der of the day with Putnam county
farmers. - ' , '
LOOK OUT FOR YOUR COWS
Fix your lot fences, barn doors and
gates. There are too many cows
getting out accidentally. The acci
dental cow gives the most troublo
It is a misdemeanor for any person
to allow his stock out. If your cow
accidentally gets out it is your duty
to go and got her rnd put her up; not
wait for the police to find her. Who"
the officer finds her it is hii duty to
cite you for trial 'or not getting her
up. You know It is xa violation of
the law of your town for stock to run
out. I did not make the law, but am
under oath and bond to enforce the
law, and that's what I aim to do to
(the very best of my ability. You
know tlnre 13 both public and pri
vate property outside, so let us make
arrangements to keep our stock off
the streets or trespassing upon any
one. J. M. LOFTIS, Marshal.
COOKEVILLE ROUTE 2
Mrs. Clara Lewis is very 111
with
Pneumonia.;.
Mr. Phy will begin a singing school
at Pleasant Valley the 4th and 5th.
Hell teach every Saturday and Sun
day for a month. , -
- Herman Gentry and family started
for Kansas the 2nd,
R. B. Terry has purchased a pair
of young mule3.
Mr. Okla Chaffin sud Miss Anna
Webb were married Inst Sunday. We
wish them a long and happy life.
Cain Goolsby and family will leave
for Minnesota soon. ' ,'
Misses Vina Terry and fla HtcSi
called on Florence Lewis a rew days
ago. '
Preaching at Leo S-3rJnary every
first and second Sunday.
Lela Hicks and Jewel Terry.
. at on o'cloc .
Mt View Lodge, No. 179, I O O F
held a splendid meeting on March 4th.
1916, J. H. McCulley, N G, presiding,
with a good attendance
Brother Chas. Bradford was report
ed improving some now.
One petit'on 'or initiation was re
ceived and' referred to committee.
We learn that the Garrison child
ren have become reconciled to their
new environments in the I O O F
Home and are happy ana contented.
It is a great blessin for them tht
j their father paid a few dollars Into
the great order, perhaps, never think
ing that he was casting bread upon
the waters to be gathered up by his
children in way of care, protection,
education, and a far greater chance
in llf3'8 battle's than he could have
otherwise provided. This is certain
ly worth more to them than a good
sized policy in life insurance, and far
cheaper. We now have . 9 wards in
tho Ho e and all Oddfellows in this
jurisdiction pay 75c every six months
for the maintenance of the Home
and its family of 200 'orphans. All
brothers should cheerfully pay their
dues. '
Cookeville Camp No. 12248, held a
very good meeting last Tuesday night,
notwithstanding the fact that the at
tendance was not very large. Consul
Chas. Stanton presided, and most of
the other officers wore at their sta- -tlons.
Besides other minor, business,
one appUcation was ballotted on fav
orably and the beneficial degree was
conferred on one "intruder." ; There
has been degree work every meeting
for several weeks and still more are
on the way. Every neighbor should
como out each Tuesday night. Some
new equipment for putting on the de
gree work will be put In soon.
AN AUTHORES8 1 .
Miss Estelle Robertson, the beauti
ful daughter if Mr. and Mrs. Lee
Robertson of Corydon, Ky., made her
debut recently as an authoress. Her
latest work, "Topsy True" will be
ready for publication by the first of
May. The story Is a beautiful one,
with scenes laid wholly In Tennes
see. Most of the action is centered
at Nashville . and at Ashland City.
When you read the descriptions of
Sydney and Sunrise Blufi3 near Ash
land City, the clever little writer
irakes you feel as if you were there
in person. : ; ,
Mis s Robertson hopes to see her
play on the screen. She is now work
ing on her book to that purpose. If
she attains this purpose many well
known places as the Union and Ten
nessee Central Depots, the West
campus at Vanderbilt University, the
Hermitage Hotel and the - forme;
home of Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Leslie,
Sr, will be of special notice, as it is
around these places the thread of the
story is woven. ; ; ,
Miss Robertson is a Southern girt
and at one time made her home In
Cookeville. She was a senior of
the 1914-15 class of the Cheatham
County High School at Ashland City.
She Is he granddaughter of Esq. and
Mrs. J. W. Willett of Putnam county.
Although this little authoress Is
yet , in her early 'teens she Is mak
ing a promising writer and hr many
frlendg are hoping for her success.
LONZO BYER8
On the . 12th of Feb. the death an-
gel visited the home of Lonzo Byers
and claimed for H3 victim the father
of the home, Lonzo Byers, who was
a citizen of high esteem, a devoted
husband and a loving father, who
commanded the, respect of all who
knew hlmv He was a Christian man
of the highest type. His life astong,
his' family and many friends wai
very pleasant and now since he has
left us his absence is mourned by all
It is hard for us to understand why
God in his infinite love sees fit to call
one so loving and kind as our be'ov
ed friend from his loved ones to dwell
from them eternal evermore, but God
knows best and His will must be. ,
done. While his loved ones mount
his loss we feel assured from his ow
words, that his soul is resting In the
arms of Jeeus while smiling back ,
upon his loved ones traveling on
through the Journey of life.
We all join with his loved ones in
mourning his loss and conuiead
them to God, who Is able to keep
them from all harm. .
J. T. Richardson, Bloomingtoa,
" R. 1.
Subscribe for the Herald NOW 3
