THE BARRE DAILY- TIME
VOL. XIX-NO. 304.
HAHItfc, VK1LMOXT, THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1910.
PRICE, ONE cext;
4
AMERICANS
MURDERED;
TOWN FIRED
500 Villa Bandits Crossed International
Boundary Line And Made Night At
tack on Columbus, New Mexico, But
Were Finally Driven Out By U. S.
Cavalry
.
RESIDENTS SHOT DOWN .
AS THEY FLED FROM FIRE
GERMAN
DEFEAT
ATVAUX
A French Official Statement
Says That Several Heavy
Attacks, Accompanied by
Intense Artillery Fire and
Violent Infantry Assaults,
Were Completely Repulsed
HLOODY BODY LAY
ON KITCHEN FLOOR
Germany Has Ordered Her
Subjects to Leave That
Country for Spain
DIPLOMATS WILL
BE RECALLED
VILLAGE OF VAUX HAD
BEEN PENETRATED
Standing Guard Over Exits, Bandits Set
Fire to Buildings And Shot Down
the Inmates As They Were Driven
Out By FlamesMexicans Paid Dear
ly With Their Lives
Columbus, New Mexico, March 9. Five hundred Villa bandits
attacked this placeSit 4:30 o'clock this morning, killed a number of
civilians, both men and women, and had possession of the town for
an hour and a half before they were driven off by three troops of
the 13th cavalry. When they retreated, they left part of the town
in flames. A large number of Mexicans were killed, the bodies dot
ting the streets where they had been posted, picking off the Amer
icans as they emerged pell-mell from dwellings and hotels.
Several guests were burned to death m the Central hotel, one oi
the first buildings fired by Villa's men. The bandits, standing out
side the flaming building, killed the hotel proprietor, A. L. Ritchie,
and W. R. Walker, a guest, as they attempted to dash out the door.
C. C. Miller, the proprietor of a drug store, was shot while seeking
shelter in the Hoover hotel. The latter hotel, an adobe structure,
protected a score of cowering women and children, who remained in
their rooms while a howling mob of bandits surged through the
surrounding streets.
The bandits first attacked the camp of the 13th cavalry, killing
and wounding a number of American soldiers.
The American Slain.
A Semi-Official Statement at
Paris Says That French
Repulsed Attacks on the
Village of Bethincourt, the
Germans Having Advanced
Repeatedly to the Assault
Grand Juror, Coin, to House in Rutland
to Begin Ejectment Proceedings,
Found Signs Which Pointed
to Foul Play.
Rutland, March 0. What in believed to
have been a murder for tho purpose of
robbery waa accidentally discovered by
Grand Juror Charles . Novak of this
city, when, on going to a house at 16
Meadow street, yesterday, to beg'm eject
ment proceeding against the family of
Lou in Gruppo, who occupied a garret ten
ement on the third floor, he found the
dead body of Pomenieo Ragosto, a wood
chopper, aged 4 year. The corpse was
on the floor in the kitchen. Wood had
flowed from the man's mouth profusely
and the floor for a large area was stained.
A superficial examination showed no out
ward bruises and Dr. Frederick H. Gab
hardt, city health officer, who wag called,
ordered an autopsy.
7 he oflieers are searching for the
Gruppo and a man whose namo has not
been disclosed. It Is alleged that Mrs.
Gruppo, who does not bear a good repu
tation, went late last Saturday night to
T i.. .. . . . : i. X) . .. . i
m.n n.,.mlll,lv to m.t n is,.h i. by their consul to proceed to Spam nn-
suM to have been due Rai-nsto for wni-M. ' mediately, according to an Exchange
1 l. .1! . . ... I '., 1.,...
Tenants on the se4ond floor of the lel,Kr"Iu "'"I"1 lrum
PORTUGAL
EXPECTS WAR
Special Protective Measures
Against Submarines
Are Taken
London, March 0. German residents
throughout Portugal have been advised
It is
MONTPELIER CHORAL SOCIETY.
house say that lute Tuesday night some aupposed, says the correspondent, that
persons entered the Gruppo apartments. jthe diplomats will leave this wk as a
They heard cries of distress, but, aa the rupture between Germany and Portugal
Gruppos had two children, thought noth
ing of the occurrence. The neighbors
heard no one leave the apartments. Ra-
gostos had been dead at least Ave hours
is considered inevitable.
Pariy March 9. A Lisbon dispatch to
MatinXays that special protective meas-
sures have been taken along the coagt
when big body was found. There wasiand.-t the entrance to the river Tagus
Sum of $4,000 Is Assured for Festival!
Guarantee.
At tho rehearsal of tho Montpclier
Choral society last Tuesday evening it
was announced by President Sibley that
he would have in another week sulllcient
names on tho guaranteo paper to cover
tho sum of $-1,00(1, of this amount, $3,400
being already pledged. Ho .stated that
those placing their names on tho paper
were glad to do so in order to assure the
financial support of the organization and
were ready to stand back of the members
in their effort to furnish an opportunity
both to study and enjoy high grade mu
sic. Mr. Sibley's remarks were received
with much appreciation by the members
present.
Practically the entire evening was
spent on the "Swan" portion of the "Swan
and Skylark, with Miss Sands of
Montpelier seminary assuming tho solo
role for the contralto obligato. Miss
Sands' solo work was well received by
the chorus, her rendition of the number
proving that she was an accomplished
musician and an exoellent vocalist. The
tenor obligato for the latter part of the
number will bo sung by Frederick J.
nglis of Barre next week.
A fourth number, Dudley Puck's "Fes
tival Hymn," was added to the chorus
program; a male chorus number will be
announced later, and if possible the num
ber will be on hand for next week.
A chart allowing the number of mem
bers from Barre and Montpelier, for the
different parts was posted in the hall,
which will be corrected each week to
show the membership roll, which is now
greater than at the festival last year, in
excess Of 210 members. Mr. Coffin urged
DEEP SNOWFALL
HELD UP TRAINS
Other Traffic Seriously In
terfered With for First
Time This Winter
BREEZES ON THE HILLS
PILED SNOW HIGHER
Quarry Railroad Had tho
Most Difficult Experience
Winter waited for March t'
the heaviest snowstorm of t'
iver
inter,
in his
Nine civilians and six troopers are
. known to be dead. The civilians are as
follows:.
A. J. RITCHIE, hotel proprietor.
W1LLON WALKJ2, U. S. customs rid
er. MILTON JAMES.
MRS.' MILTON JAMES.
.T. S. DEAN.
C. C. MILLAR, druggist.
J. J. MOORE, a merchant.
XV. R. "WALKER, a guest at the Cen
tral hotel.
An unidentified chauffeur.
The dead soldiers are: I
FRANK KENDALL.
SERGEANT M. A. DOBBS.
CORPORAL PAUL SI MONO.
SERGEANT JOIIN NIEVERGALT.
CORPORAL HARRY WIS WALL.
MtlVATE FRED A. GRIFFEN.
ing his first conference with the new
secretary of war, N. D. Baker. The offi
cials admitted that the raid put a very
serious aspect on the Mexican situation.
While the policy of the administration
so far has Wen to look to the Carranza
forces to deal with the bandits, some offi
cials declared to-day that it was a gravj
question whether such a raid as that on
Columbus was not sufficient evidence oi
the inability of the Carranza government
to deal with the situation to warrant
sending American trqops over the line.
The raids started a new agitation in
Congress where those opposing the ad
ministration s policy in Mexico openly
charged that the attack was proof of
their repeated declaration that the Car
ranza government is impotent to deal
with the conditions.
Paris, March 9, The Germans have
been repulsed between Douaumont and
the village of Vaux after several heavy
attacks, accompanied by intense artillery
fire and violent infantry assalts, accord
ing to. the French official statement,
which says that the attackers were com
pletely defeated after having penetrated
the village of Vaux.
A semi-official statement to-day says
that on the Verdun sector west of the
Meuse the French repulsed repeated at
tacks on the village of Bethincourt.
Germans Claimed Vaux.
Berlin, via London. March 9. The vil
lage and armored fort of Vaux, north
east of Verdun, has been captured by the
Germans, the war office announced to
day. The announcement says that in
addition to the village and fort numer
ous fortifications and positions were cap
tured. The assault was made in the
night by the Posen reserve regiments.
no money on his person. A silver watch
was in his pocket. Wine and victuals
on the table showed that the party had
a midnight lunch, Kagosto was a wid
owcr. I
POWER BILL PASSED.
Senate Ends Four Weeks' Contest Over
the Shields Measure.
THE FRENCH RALLY.
13TH CAVALRY CROSS
BORDER IN PURSUIT
The first volley of rifles woke up all the
townspeople. Francisco Villa is said to
have been seen by several Americans di
recting the men, and his personal papers
wore found in a bag picked tip by troop
ers. The bandits cut the telegraph wires
east to El Paso to prevent a call for the
troops stationed there. The telephones
also were out of commission. While part
of his forces fought the rallied troops,
Villa is said to have detailed snipers and
soldiers to fire the houses.
The houses throughout the town were
'riddled with bullets. Snipers posted in
front of tho frame buildings, which had
been fired, shot at the American inmates
as they sought to escape. The lighting of
lamps by the householders and hotel
guests, startled out of sound sleep by the
fusillade, promptly brought a shower of
bullets. Every house in the town ap
peared to have been hit from once to a
dor.cn times. ,
Civilian armed themselves and from
vantage point within their homes an
swered the Mexican shots. Villa's buglers
lx-pan sounding the retreat shortly before
i o'rlmk, and the town was cleared by
(i:."l. A number of the civilians shot
here to attend a Sunday school
con ent inn.
Troop G, which waa stationed at the
border gate south of the town, caujrht the
retiring Mexicans on the flank and killed
IS of the-m.
Unofficial Report Submitted to Carranza
Embassy in Washington Tells of
Unusual Move.
Washington, D. C, March 9. L'noffi
ical report transmitted to the Carranza
embassy said the 13th cavalry has
crossed the border in pursuit of the
Villa bandits who shot up Columbus, N.
M., this morning.
DIAZ IN NEW ORLEANS.
State Department Satisfied the Revolu
tionist la Not in Mexico.
Washington, D. C, March 9. State de
partment agents have information that
Felix Diaz, the Mexican revolutionary
leader, is hiding in New Orleans and are
satisfied that he has not landed in Mexico
with an armed expedition, as reported.
BODY OF KEARNS FOUND.
Turned on Germans with Strong Coun
ter-Attack at Bethincourt.
London, March 9. The French rallied
yesterday against the. new German .drive
northwest of Verdun, defeated a heavy
infantry assault on Bethincourt and
then, by a strong counter-attack, suc
ceeded in driving the Germans from the
greater . part of the Corbeaux wood,
which they occupied Tuesday. Accord
ing to the official statement issued by
the war office last night the Germans
now hold only the eastern extremity of
this road.
Northeast of the city, German regi
ments thrown upon the French line cap
tured for the second time the redoubt of
Ifardaumont. Their plan of battle on j
this side extended several miles about
Douaumont, but their attempts to at
tack near that village collapsed under
the French fire. Tremendous bombard
ments preceded and followed the infan
try effort here, with tho French replying
in kind, and the artillery battle contin
ues.
The French also repulsed an assault
on the railroad and highway to Man
heulles, northwest of Fresnes.
GERMAN FLEET SEEN.
Former Mayor of Waltham Disappeared
December 28.
Boston. March 9. The body of Thom
as F. Kearns. former mayor of Waltham, I sels
who disappeared on December 2X last, i carrying several
was found wedged between two rocks in ' most funnel painted yellow or covered
tne lharlcs river, just below the Water- with yellow cloth, while the other fun
Fifty Big Warships Went Out Into the
North Sea.
London, March 9. A German fleet con
sisting of at least 50 big warships, fol
lowed by a grey painted armed trawler
fleet, two big Zeppelins and numerous
submarines, was sighted in the North
sea ou lemhelling island, ortn Hol
land, according to the report of a steam
trawler which has arrived at Ymuiden,
says Renter's Amsterdam correspondent.
The fleet was proceeding westward.
The correspondent adds that Monday
morning five large cruisers of unknown
nationality passed Ymuiden at full speed.
London, March 9. The German fleet
returned to its base yesterday morning,
sava Reuter ' Ymuiden correspondent tel
egraphing Wednesday.
A Dutch trawler which was searched
bv one of the warships," the correspond
ent adds, "reports that many of the vci-
had a peculiar appearance. Those
funnels had a stern-
Washington, D. C, March 9. The Sen
ate last night after, four weeks of de
bate, passed the Shields bill to provide
for development of water power in navi
gable water by private capital. The vote
was 46 to 22. Conservation champions
fought hard to amend the measure, but
without avail.
Several senators voted for the bill, who
had opposed it during the debate. One
of them, Senator Walsh, said he thought
it had legislation, but firmly believed it
would be amended when it reached the
House.
Senator Reed attacked the provision of
the bill, which provides that contest be
decided in favor of the applicant able
to guarantee the best construction, de
daring this would result in the best
sites going to the interests now operat
ing power plants. He declared the nieas-
uy would grant corporations absolute
control of the country water power for
long time. 1
The Shield bill .f been under almost
continuous debate since the passage of
the Philippine bill February 4. It was
opposed by the National Conservation as
sociation, of "which Gifford rmchot is
president. Many amendments were of
fered by a score of senators, but the
bill as passed, was changed but little
from its original form.
As adopted, the bill permits the con
struction of dams in navigable waters
under licenses issued by the secretary
of war and gives grantees the right to
operate power plants for fifty years, aft
er which time the federal government
may take over the plant after giving two
years' notice and paying a fair value to
be determined by the secretary of war
and the owner or by proceedings in the
United States courts.
Regulation of rates and services
placed with the states In which the
plants are situated, or if interstate com
mercc is involved, with the interstate
commerce commission on appeals when
the states involved are unable to
agree on reasonable rates and adequate
service. The bill also provides that no
works shall be operated in any com
bination to limit the output of electric
power or in restraint of trade.
against submarines. Lighthouses have
been ordered to remain dark.
. Like the fall which Lowell pi
famous poem-picture, it r j5 in the
gloaming, and like the co" V troops at
San Juan hill, it contin ..lobly, even
though it was unnecpss On the dead
level, if such a lcve rs more of a
perfect plane than jr ? , ordinary level,
tho new snow men. . nearly Hi inched
to-day. Outside the.ity the fielda wero
all sheeted up with a "pliant counter-
greater effort to add to the numbers of ! pane." folds of pure white having been
QUINCY CUTTERS
DRAW STRIKE PAY
Total Number Was 1,450, Which Includ
ed Also the Polishers and Tool
Sharpeners Manufacturers
Stand Out for Four
Year Bill.
Quincy, Mass., March 9. The striking
granite workers drew their first strike
pay yesterday. The men are entitled to
1.25 a day and in the list of applicants
were 1,XH) stone cutters, 300 polishers
and 150 blacksmiths and tool sharpeners,
The granite . workers have offered
three or five-Tear agreement, but the
manufacturers want a four-year bill
The latter say the union committee first
proposed' the four-year bill, which was
accepted by the manufacturers, but that
later a mass meeting of the union re
fused to back up the position of the
committee.
Tiie bill of prices in Barre, Vt., Quin-
cy's biggest competitor in New England,
will expire in four yearg and the granite
cutters here think it is not a good thing
for, the Quincy bill to terminate at the
same time.
the three lower parts, alto, tenor and
baritone sections.
fashioned by a breeze that showed its
real sturdiness without the city limits.
Train service was badly disrupted on
all lines in Barre. Officials of the Barre
& Chelsea railroad sent the snowplow
into the hinterlands this morning, but
freight trains remained here on the flats,
for it soon developed that tne wind had
wrought havoc with railroading beyond
Quarry street. It was thought that
freighting might he resumed late this
afternoon or to-morrow morning at tho
NON-SUPPORT CHARGED.
TALKED WITH SEATTLE.
His
town dam, yesterday afternoon. It lay
face downward, alsiut 40 feet from shore,
and was covered by 6 inches of water
when discovered by Mathias Rcnalt, a
machinist, of 17 Scotland road. Reading.
Kenalt, engaged in installing some new
machinery in the I I'. Chase factor v.
nels were grey.'
ARMENIAN REFUGEES ARRIVE.
Were Driven from Their Homes
Turks Last July.
Bellows Falls Man Congratulated
Mother on Her Birthday.
Bellows Falls. March 9. Mrs. F. II.
Coe of Seattle, Wash., observed her birth
day anniversary yesterday and as a
pleasing reminder of the anniversary, her
son, Ji. L. Coe of o dreen street, talked
with her over the telephone last night
for five minutes. This was the longest
paid telephone conversation which has
ever taken place. The total distance over
which the conversation waa carried was
4,500 miles. The call was routed from
here to Greenfield, thence to New York
by the transcontinental route to San
Francisco, a distance of 3,500 miles, then
1,000 miles up the Pacific coast to Seat
tle. In addition to being the longest paid
call, it was the first transcontinental
talk sent from Vermont.
A talk between Poland Springs, Me.,
and San Francisco previously held this
record, until last evening. The conversa
tion between mother and son waa plain
ly audible to both. The telephone com
pany through Manager II. W. Buzzell
bad previously been notified of the pros
pective call and special circuits were ar
ranged here and other points to insure
satisfactory service. ,
A. H. Grimes, Accused, Thinks His Father
Will Help Him.
Middlebury, March 9. A. H. Grimes,
former resident of New Haven, who
for some little time has been in differ
ent places, was taken into custody by
Deputy Sheriff Ueorge fair ot JJristol in
Groton, N. H., charged with not siTp
porting his family, at present located in
several places and consisting of a wite
and four children. He was before Judge
Donoway Wednesday morning and the
case was continued until a later date
Grimes wished to get in communication
with his father, who, he thought, would
assist mm.
DEATH OF K.ENNETH McDONALD .
Bane Granite Cutter Had Been 111 for
Six Months.
Kenneth McDonald, a granitecutter,
passed away at his home on Trow lull .
this morning at 7 o clock, the end follow
ing an illness of six months. Death j
was due to tuberculosis. Mr. McDonald i latest. Numerous delavs were renorted
U survived by his wife and eight chil- at the Central Vermont station. Tho
dren, the oldest of whom is Clifford Mc- mail train, due to arrive in Barre at 4:05
Donald, a clerk employed in the gro- a. m., nosed its way through the storm
eery store of W. II, Connor on North in time to stop at Barre around 7:20
.Main street, the diseased was a native ,o clock. The local train from Burline-ton.
of Canada, the son of Mr. and Mrs. J. i arriving usually at 9:47, was only 15
McDonald. He had been a resident of j minutes late and the 12:55 p. m. train
Barre and Barre Town for several years, 'from the north was reported 40 minutes
and was employed steadily at his trsdd late. Central Vermont railroad attaches
got to work early on the Barre and
Uilliamstown branches, although it
until illness overtook him in the sum
mer of 1915. Two of his sisters reside
in Graniteville.
It is probable that the funeral will be
held Saturday, although definite arrange
ments have not been completed. Inter
ment will be made in the Wilson ceme
tery at South Barre,
DIED IN ORANGE.
Two
MILITARY TRAINING FAVORED
For Public Schools of New Jersey By the
New Jersey House.
Trenton, N. J., March 9. Two bill
passed last night place the New Jersey
House of Assembly on record in jfavor o
military training in public schools. The
Pierson bill providing for two hours
training each week was passed. It
proposed to have the state board of edu
cation and the military department out
line military subjects for bovs and hy
giene and nursing courses for girl pupils,
MANY FRIENDS PRESENT
DIED AT AGE OF 78.
William Lewis of Middlesex Had Hemor
rhage of the Stomach.
Middlesex. March 9. William Lewis
died at the home of his daughter, Mrs.
Albert Taplin, Wednesday afternoon at
At Funeral of Miss Eda Gerbetti Held
Wednesday Afternoon.
The funeral of Miss Eda Gerbetti
aged 23, whose death at her home, C65
North Main street, Monday evening fol
lowed a prolonged illness, was held at
the house Wednesday afternoon at 2
oclock. Among those attending were
friends of the young woman from Mont
pelier, Northfteld, Waterbury and Han
over, N. IL, as well as a very large rep
resentation from the Italian colony in
Barre. The bearers were: Paul Scam-
pini, James Walker, Peter Merlo, Alex
ander Emslie, Louis Sassi and Armando
Comolli. There were several fine floral
tributes. Interment was made in Hope
cemetery.
TALK OF THE TOWN
A Goddard seminary student, whose
condition has developed svmptoms of
scarlet fever, was removed this morning
to the house on Academy street, leased
bv the school authorities when a number
of the students were ill of the malady
in February. ,
Lentea services at St, Monica's church
are to be held daily at 7:30 o'clock in
the morning, w hen mass is to be celo-
the age of 7 years. Mr. Lewis had been , bra ted by the parish priest, Ker. P. M.
confined to bis bed but three days, death
WASHINGTON THINKS
SITUATION CRAVE
Raid ea Columonj, N. M, Leads Oppo
ent i f Administration's Mericam
Policy to Reassert Carraata
fa lapoteat.
WasUrflon. D. C Msrr-h .-Tr-rt
wnicn laces tne river. o,ke.l out of the 1 ew or. .March . A party of 45 !.; Hue to hemorrha of lh .torn
win.low, alioiit 2 p. m., just as be was Armenian refuge, who have been sup- ll i. urviri hr ni .i.Mr
about to put on hU coat and call it a ported by the American committee (or itn whom he lived, and" on son. George'
day's work. I ncertsin. he went down to Armenian and Syrian relief at Port SkuI i.,;. ti!,ni i i.-nr.i
the river hank, verified bis pru. ine di
covrry. and then notified the poli.r. terday on th- Italian steamship Aiuer-
I he lfly lay admit half a mile fronik-a from Naples,
the place wheie Kearns was lt sn. The Armnin were amofia the resi
nearly 10 eeks ar". It is protmH-r th.it dent of &e tillage nesr tbe foot of
it was brought up to the surfac? hy tbe Mount M-es aiid were dritea Irom tl.c;r
high and turbulent st.-rs t!"W te horn' It !e Tur lnt Julv. Nu.n-
dam, and caught and held by the two b. ring in all about 4.M t'p'-y fled to t
rorks. It ruired t! active labor of mountains. Tr-n;l-rs of the party said.
fit mn. foiling for cne hour, to brirg where tfev .-tel on
the tr-'.r to shore, a the cirr-nt rut.a eoi-l f Tate tmt'l their pi gM
vrv i't!r at t' :nt. ard the r- ic"er-J bv a French rni--r. w
McKenna. Special evening services are
to be announced from time to tune, and
the schedule of services for Holy week
will be given out later.
A small child's illness at the licnten
Mrs. Eva Jane Jackson Was HI
Weeks with Pneumonia.
Mrs. Eva Jane Jackson died Wednes
day night at 10 o'clock at the home of
her son, Calvin Jackson, in Orange, where
she had made her home for the past ten
years. She had been ill for two weeks,
death being caused by an attack of pneumonia.
Mrs. Jackson was born in Topsham 64
years ago, her husband, Urman Jack
son, dying 19 years ago. For 45 years
Mrs. Jackson had lived in Orange.
She is survived bv the son with whom
she lived and three daughters Mrs. Flor
ence Button of Woodsville, Mrs. Jessie
'arrin of Berlin and Mrs. Mabfl Dickey
of Brookfield, also by 11 grandchildren
one of whom, Harold Jackson, has al
ways made his home with his grnndmoth
er.
A prayer service will be held at the
Jackson home Saturday morning at I
o'clock, with services at the Orange Cen
ter church at 12 o'clock, Rev. Amos Lord
officiating. Burial -will be in the Center
cemetery.
COUNTY FARMERS' MEETING
Held This Afternoon Was Expected to
Take Action on County Agent Plan.
Washington county fanners began to
assemble in the city late this forenoon
for the meeting scheduled to open in
Howland hall in the afternoon at 1:30
O'clock, ror a time it was feared that
the heavy snowfall would make a post
ponement imperative and Thomas Brad
lee of the state collejie of agriculture
telephoned from Burlington to inquiifc
whether the local committee proposed to
go ahead with the meeting, lleports
from outlying towns had indicated al
ready that the farmers did not intend to
ignore the invitations sent out and so
Sir. Bradlee was advised to proceed to
Barre.
The farmers' association was organized
last year for the purpose of employing
a permanent agricultural adviser. Some
difficulties were encountered in putting
proposed plans into operation, but now
it is felt that the way for action is clear.
Those who are close to the association
anticipated this forenoon action in the
fternoon that would bring Washington
county into the ranks of counties al
ready provided with agents.
although
could not be stated whether the main
line would be clear, enough to insure
prompt service this afternoon and to
night. Over the Montpelier & Wells River
railroad, the Green Mountain express,
with its coaches piled high with Massa
chusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont
snow, limped into the station at 9:05
o'clock this morning, more than an- hour
overdue. At Woodsville, N. IL, last
night 10 inches of snow had fallen at 10
o'clock and more was expected of the
business-like weather man. Boston mails
arriving over the Montpclier & Wells
Kiver at 11:50 a. m. were 40 minutes
late, but the suburban service was not
seriously impaired.
Here in the city the street department
put in one of its busiest forenoons. For
the most part the walks were pretty
well ploughed out by the time peoplo
were ready to go to school or to work.
Many teams were busy all day in remov
ing the big accumulations of snow from
the streets. Colder weather for to-night
is the weather prognostication, with a
return to balmier temperatures fo-mor-
GIVEN LIGHT TERM.
PAINTERS GET INCREASE
re lat September, arrived here yes- ;;i j,eld on Friday afternoon at 'mas in St. Monica's church this morning
1 o clock.
NEW VERMONT POSTMASTERS.
Joca Laydra at West Pawlet aad D.
Stetaoa at Newport.
Of 25 Cents a Day First Two Years and
50 Cents Third Year.
At a joint meeting last evening of
committees representing the Master
inters' association and the union
painters of local 185 of Barre, the com
mittee representing the Master Painters'
n.Mieiation unanimously agrwl to accept
the new bill of prices as advanced by lo
cal ls.",thus assuring all journeymen
ainters an advance of 2- cent per day
or two years, and an advance of 50
cents per day beginning on the third
year, and remaining in force one year,
said agreement to become operative
April 1, 1P16.
HIRSH DISCHARGED.
After Being Tried for Conducting Lottery
in Bellows Falls.
Charles Looker Pleaded Guilty to Rob
bing the United States Mail.
Burlington, March 9. Prior to the ad
journment of L'nited States court yes
terday till May I, Charles Looker of
Hartford pleaded guilty to a charge of
robbing from the l'nited States mail.
When arraigned in the forenoon Looker
pleaded not guilty, and the following
jury was drawn: Charles E. McXamara
of Northlleld. Carroll Bottom of New Ha
ven, F. S. Lanou of- Burlington, Frank
Ford of Isle La Motte, John II. Mealier
of Fairfield Center, W. B. Johnson of Es
sex, frank lalcott ot Nilliston. Harry
C. Patterson of Barre, G. N. Roberts of
Shelburne, Charles A. Niles of Burling
ton, James Murphy of Charlotte and
Edward L. Plant of Burlington. Five
witnesses were introduced to give tes
timony for the government, Cmfed
States District Attorney V. A. Billiard
prosecuting. .
Witnesses subpoenaed in behalf of th
prosecution were: Conductor W. A. Shan
non, Baggagemaster B. E. Warner. Brake
man C. W. Stewart and special agent
of the Grand Trunk, Tisdale, Maloney,
Sampson and Shea.
Following the noon recess counsel for
the defendant stated to the court that
his client wished to change his plea of
not guilty to that of guilty. Following
Ixwker's plea of guilty, his counsel asked,
that tho court show clemency to the de
fendant, who previous to Jiis present
trouble, had led an upright life. Looker
waa employed as brakeman on the Cen
tral Vermont railway. The package
contained, among other small articles,
things which a child might wear. Dis
trict Attorney Bollard stated that tfc
crime committed was a serious offense.
Judge Howe, in consideration of the fact.
that the man bad lived clean with tlie.
exception of the present trouble, and that
he lias a wife and two children wni
would feel the effect of a heavy fine,
stated that he would inllict a light sen-
fence. Looker was sentenced to pcnd
30 days in (he Wellington cxinty j I
at Montpclier.
CLINIC AT HOSPITAL.
soon after i :jo o clock, created some
thing of a stir among the worshipers.
Tbe child was seated well t"ard the
chancel of the church, when it sudden);
d "seemed to fall into a faint. Itefore anv-1
one could reacn lit younp'-.ng. it liaI j licllowa t alls, .Marcn v.
fallen into the aile. Mr. Archamlufl, ! a spent for a Isoton fum ture c fn-lV
lt f'-d they '
di- i ft W e-t Pa
i. H t-4
W".'.irct w. D. C March . Jo?:a father cf IV. F. X. Z. Archamhau't, a
lacden hs been apiinte1 r--"t-ntr the ftrt to reach the child si.ie. It
t m j-Ur-e of Anna M. 'a re -cot ed to the res.ihiile. restore!
A !-!. r V"-:. I'. K. (( hat to eoncinef there, and taken home. munt. I
Dr. F. B. Lund ef Boston City Hospital
Will Be in Barre Tuesday.
i)r f. ft Lun-I of Boton will rondu t
an niicr'-tive clinic at the Itsrre City ho-
pital Tuesday. March 14. at !:.t! a. tn.
undT the upicc of the Washington
toitntv Mediml t-nictv. Physician whm
lne ,-.' th v w-mld le to present fr
Morris Hirah.1 operation or d.acn.w.. will plea- notify
, t Tangier oi iMirre a lew aava
. ... i f.. .
pany, no wa arrestee two we-k sg, ! prevtotn. - r-riei iiim'ij ihii i irn.
charged with conducting a l"tf.rT, p- j ra n y each esse,
cared lef-re .ln.l T. K. l" pri-n in , 1 1
I court vet.-rd4r. and f !- K. a.amio l It V. city thi w-rni-
-.f the V-im-i rd r h"l the W h.tej rwf were hani:rpjel hy tie bl.aaoig t1. m aboard asl Ini'-i them at Fort l-fi . ntcd pt m-.tr at Newport, The child nme i Hale aad his conJ,- in a trial whih UsNsI until lute id '.e.fr w York. 1 ere 1 ln fm-Ti
liuee rreiie.t W ilton waa fcsr- Motra.
S..4.
Yl, ia Uce of IL O. PlaacLard.
tK-B is reported to be improved.
afternoon, was discharrp,!.
ploy m -nt.
