Publlhd rwr Thunday by
RUSSELL IX PRICfc
Bubacrlptioo Rata
FarTaar ttOO
SixMontha...,. , M
Thraa Months M
TUB COURIER
U dvvotal to Uii bMt InlarwU
of 01 HAY aiul WHKKLKK
COUNTY. Thalllwral patron-
of tht iIiUmii of tala m
Man U napaotfullr tailvHmi.
VOL. XIV.
Sl'RAr, WHEELER COUNTY, OREGON", THURSDAY, MARCH !, 1910.
NO. 4.
V
WORLD'S DOINGS
OF CURRENT WEEK
Brief Resume of General News
- From All Around the Earth.
UNIVERSAL HAPPENINGS IN A NUTSIIOI
Live News Items of All Nations and
Pacific Northwest Condensed
for Our Busy Readers.
Aberdeen, Wash., It about to begin
work on a $400,000 water system.
The government of India haa Im
posed an export duty on grain bags.
General Argumedo, a Mexican rebel
leader, haa been executed by Carranxa.
The United Statea National bank
will build a 1250,000 bank building In
Portland.
Portland'a now city directory, which
will be liwued next week, will report a
population for the city of approxi
mately 281,000.
The aecretary of the California state
board of health declarea spring fever
ia not a disease, but a perfectly nor
mal and natural feeling.
Secretary Daniela predicts full vin
dication of the Navy department in
buying armor plants, etc., when the
true facta become known. .
Six homeless boys lesa than 6 years
of age and of varying nationalities are
to be adopted by Mra. Bessie Fuller,
of South Porcupine, Ontario, Canada,
as a sociological experiment.
The discovery of a small comet by
Neujmln waa announced In a cable
gram to the Harvard observatory from
Profeaaor Backlund, of the Imperial,
observatory at Pulkowa, Russia.
A Buchareat dispatch recelveed In
London by Reuter's Telegram company
by way of Amsterdam says that the
Queen Mother, Elizabeth, of Rou
mania, (Carmen Sylva), died Friday
morning.
A Stockholm dispatch to the London
Morning Post aays that, according to a
message from Karlskrona, Sweden, a
whole mine field of several hundred
mines is drifting from the North, hav
ing presumably been set adrift by the
ice and wind.
Fred G. Buakuhl, of Friend, Oregon,
haa just received the bronze medal
awarded to him by the Carnegie hero
fund commiasion for attempting to
aave the life of Joseph I. Tarke at
Friend, August 3, 1912. The commis
sion also awarded $1000 to Mr. Bua
kuhl. Five million bushels of May wheat
have been bought by milling interests
in the last week as prices tumbled,
according to estimates of Minneapolis
chamber of commerce traders. This,
they say, would represent aales of one
million barrels of flour. Most of this
product is said to be for Laatern
bakers.
Two men with a large "roll" of
counterfeit Federal Reserve bank bills
are operating in Portland, and a third
member of the gang ia supposed to be
working in conjunction with the others
disguised as a plainclothes officer. The
duty of the third man appears to be to
disarm the suspicion of the victims by
vouching for his accomplices.
Crowded galleries that gathered to
hear the international situation dis
cussed saw the house take its annual
vote, fhla time 150 to 46, not to reduce
members' mileage from 20 to 5 cents a
mile. The defeat of the motion waa
preceded by a lively debate, in which
the 20-cent mileage was denounced as
graft and defended as a just allowance.
Secretary Daniels is opposed to lo
cating a naval base at the mouth of
the Columbia river. .
The momentaus battle between the
French and Germans before Verdun
continues with practically no gain for
either Bide.
The Russian steamship .Petshenga
haa been sunk. Fifteen of those on
board were saved. She was of 1647
gross tons. Seven of the Petshenga's
crew were lost.
Great Britain will permit shipment
to the United States of a cargo of dye
stuffs valued at $5,000,000.
Only three co-eds out of 2.3 at the
University of Oregon have good feet.
None have a perfect toe-line.
General Felix Diaz, who haa been
in the United Statea for aeveral
months, and under surveillance of the
department oi Justice, has succeeded
in leaving for Cuba, where, it is re
ported, he will form plans for another
revolution in Mexico.
GERMAN RAIDER MAKES HOME
PORT WITH BOOTY AND PRISONERS
Berlin The German cruiser Moewe
arrived Monday in a German port
(said to be Wilhelmshaven), according
to an official announcement made here.
She had on board 199 prisoners and
I, 000,000 marks In gold bara. The
statement follows: '
"The naval general staff saya that
II. M. S. Moewe, Commander Captain
Burgrave Count von Dohna-Scholdien,
after a successful cruise lasting sev
eral months, arrived at some home port
with four British officers, 29 British
marines and aailora, 1C6 men of crewa
of enemy steamers, among them 103
Indiana, as prisoners, and 1,000,000
mark a in gold bars.
"The vessel captured the following
enemy vessels, the greater part of
which were aunk, and a email part of
which were sent as prizes to neutral
porta.
"The British steamers Corbridgs,
3647 tons; Author, 3496 tons; Trader,
3608 ton; Ariadne, 3035 tons; Dro
monby, 8627 tons; Farringford, 3146
tons; Clan Mactavish, 6816 tone'; Ap
pern, 7781 tons; Weatburn, 8300 tons;
Horace, 3335 tons; Flamenco, 4629
tons; Saxon Prince, 8471 tone.
British sailing vessel Edinburgh,
1473 tons.
"French steamer Maronl, 8109 tons.
" Belgian ateamer Luxembourg,
4322 tone.
"At aeveral points on enemy coaat
the Moewe also laid mines, to which,
among othera, the battleship King Ed
ward VII fell victim."
Count von Dohna-Scholdien, com
mander of the Moewe, haa received-
the iron crosa of the first class, and
the members of the crew have receiv
ed the iron croaa of the second class.
Count von Dohna baa been ordered to
report to headquarters for a personal
interview with the emperor.
East Wants Slice of Oregon
& California Land Grant Profits
Washington. D. C. If the Cham
berlain bill ia made thar the baaia of
congressional legislation, looking to
the disposal of the unsold portion of
the Oregon & California land grant.
one important provision, that prescrib
ing the manner of disposing of the
net revenues from the sale of timber
lands, will be radically amended, if not
altogether eliminated.
As the bill now stands, the receipts
from the sale of timber lands, after
paying the railroad company what
further amounta may be found due,
will go into a special fund, of which
40 per cent will go to the state of Ore
gon for school purposes, 40 per cent
will go to the land grant counties, and
the remaining 20 per cent to the Fed
eral government.
While the public land committees of
the senate and house have not yet
formulated their reports, it haa be
come quite evident that there will be
strong opposition to turning over 80
per cent of the net receipts to Oregon
and the counties, and this provision
will be lesa favorably received by the
senate and house than by the commit
tees which have the subject in hand.
And especially will this provision be
assailed when it is generally known
that the government estimates the
timber to be worth upwards of $50,-
000,000.
Regardless of the reasons back of
it, the idea is strong among Eastern
and Southern men in congress that the
lands of the West belong to the entire
country, and there is a decided oppo
sition to any legislation which con
cedes that the Western states have a
greater interest in lands within their
borders than do states 3000 miles
away.
U. S. Will Make Demands
On Austria ia PetroUte Case
' mi i
Washington, D. C. The United
Statea ia preparing to make formal
demands upon Austria-Hungary as a
result of the attack by an Austrian
submarine upon the American tank
steamer Petrolite. A note on the sub
ject will be dispatched within the next
few days.
It ia said authoritatively that the
United States would stand by its orig
inal contentions and ' ask an apology
for the attack, punishment of the sub
marine commander and reparation for
damage done to the vessel and injuries
inflicted on a member of the crew.
In reply to the first American com
munication Austria informed the State
department that its version' of the
affair was that the submarine com
mander ' thought the Petrolite an
enemy ship, disguised with the Amer
ican flag; that he fired on the vessel
because he believed it was about to
ram hia ship, and that the commander
of the Petrolite voluntarily furnished
provisions when asked to do so.
The State department since . haa se
cured information from the captain
and crew of the Petrolite directly con
tradictory to the Austrian version.
DRASTIC MILITARY
BILL INTRODUCED
Senate Measure Stronger Than
Administration Had Asked.
GARRISON PLAN PRACTICAL RETAINED
Army and National Guard Virtually
Doubled in Strength New In
ducements for Recruits.
Washington, D. C The first of the
national preparedness measures to
reach either house of congress for con
sideration waa introduced in the senate
Saturday by Senator Chamberlain,
chairman of the military committee,
which perfected it after weeks of
hearings and conferences. It proposes
an even more sweeping change in mili
tary policy than that outlined by Pres
ident Wilson in hia annual message,
and waa described by Mr. Chamberlain
aa the most comprehensive piece of
military legislation ever offered in
congress.
All of the elementary administration
army plana prepared by ex-Secretary
Garrison are retained, although in al
tered form, and additional proposals
for organization of industrial reserves
in peace timea go even further than
the administration had suggested.
The house committee's bill waa
Introduced Monday. There ia no vital
difference between the two measures
and members of both committeea be
lieve that when the final bill, which
will be agreed on in joint conference
committee, haa passed both houses,
the Preafdent will be able to aflx bis
signature to a measure that will do
more than he haa asked toward build
ing up an adequate National defense.
Aside from its plan virtually to
double the Army and National guard,'
the senate bill haa four, striking fea
ture. One of theae authorizes Feder
al volunteer forces in peace times, the
object sought by Secretary Garrison
with his continental army plan. An-
other mobilizea all whose callings fit
them for special duty. The third
Federalizes the National guard and,
the fourth contemplates training offi
cers from among graduates of military
achooia and colleges. j
For the regular Army the bill pro-!
vides a peace strength within five:
years of 178,000 men of all arms, or
approximately 165,000 fighting troops. !
The percentage of men in each com-i
pany, battery or troop at peace
strength would be increased in the in
terests of efficiency, and the full war
strength would be 225,000 men. The
Amy would consist of 65 infantry, zo
cavalry and 21 field artillery regiments
in addition to the staff and other spe
cial corps and coaat artillery.
Colonel House Is Back from
European War Zone
New York Colonel E. M. House,
who sailed for Europe December 28
on a confidential mission for President
Wilson, arrived here Sunday on the
steamship Rotterdam from Falmouth.
Colonel Houae declined to comment
on his mission or what he had aeen or
done while abroad, reiterating the
statement he had made prior to leav
ing here in December, that his mis
sion waa to convey to some of the
American ambassadors information
having to do with international ques
tions that could not be supplied them
by cable or letter. ,
Asked if he had noticed any marked
change in the attitude of ' Europe to
ward the United States since hia prev
ious trip, Colonel House said:
"Reports of an unfavorable attitude
toward the United Statea by- the peo
ple of Europe are exaggerated. At
least, I heard no criticism in any of
the countries I visited. I will Bay al
so that we should remember that the
people of the belligerent nations are
living with their nerves on edge and
we should make allowances according
ly." ; ,; ' -' '
Germans Renew Attack on .
:.. Verdun With No Gains
Paris Fighting of great violence
continues at Douaumont, in the Ver
dun region, the war office announced
Sunday. The Germans made a heavy
attack against the French front along
the line from the Haudremont wood to
Douaumont fort. This assault, the
statement aays, was repulsed.
It ia announced semi-officially that
the battle at Verdun continued Sunday
throughout the day with the same in
tensity and without causing any
change in the respective positions of
the opposing armies.
PRESIDENT CALLS f OR SHOWDOWN
; ON GERMAN SUBMARINE ISSUE
., Waahintgon, D. C Preaident Wil
son decided Wednesday that he cannot
proceed with the German submarine
negotiations while dissentlon in con
gress weakens hia position before the
world, so he called for a showdown on
the pending proposals to warn Ameri
cans off merchant ships of the Euro
pean belligerents armed for defense.
Making clear that he considers the
President, and not congress, is charged
with the conduct of the foreign rela
tions of the United States, he wrote a
letter to Representative Pou, acting
chairman of the houae rules commit
tee, asking him to provide parliamen
tary meana for bringing the agitation
out into the open on the floor of the
house, for full discussion and vote.
The President's letter to Mr. Pou,
the signal that the administration waa
ready to give Germany a demonstra
tion of unity, follows:
"My Dear Mr. Pou : Inasmuch as I
learn that Mr. Henry, the chairman of
WILLIAM THAW
ji MmianMM mai i aniT-'irwr- "T-'-f -f
I:
: vitrei"':"
William Thaw, an American aviator
In tha aervica of France, who haa beea
promoted for -ood work.
the committee on rules, is absent in
Texas, I take the liberty of calling
your attention, aa ranking' member of
the committee, to a matter of grave
concern to the country, which can, I
believe, be handled, under the rules of
the United Statea congress, only by
that committee. -
"The report that there are divided
counsels in congress in regard to the
foreign policy of the government is
being made industrious use of in for
eign capitals. I believe that report to
be false, but so long as it is anywhere
credited it cannot fail to do the great
est harm and expose the country to
the most serious risks. I therefore
feel justified in asking that your com
mittee will permit me to urge an early
vote upon the resolutions with regard
to travel on armed merchantmen,
which have recently been so much
talked about, in order that there may
be afforded an immediate opportunity
for full public discussion ' and action
upon them, and that all doubts and
conjectures may be swept away and
our foreign relations once more
cleared of damaging misunderstand
ings. "The matter is of so grave impor
tance and lies so clearly within the
field of executive initiative that I ven
ture to hope that your committee will
not think that I am taking unwarrant
ed liberty in making this suggestion as
to the business of the house, and I
very earnestly commend it to their im
mediate consideration. Cordially and
sincerely yours,
"WOODROW WILSON."
Total Tax from Incomes
Show Marked Increase
New York An estimate that ap
proximately 30,000 corporations will
pay income taxes this year in the Sec
ond internal revenue district of this
city, waa made- by Collector Lowe.
Collector Lowe's district takes in
the lower part of Manhattan, in which
are situated the main officers of many
of the country's greatest corporations,
bankers and financiers. The total col
lections this year in this district from
all forms of Federal taxes, Mr. Lowe
predicted, will exceed $35,000,000.
Collections last year amounted to $26,
000,000. Chicago The Federal income tax
will be paid by 4000 more Chicagoans
this year than last, according to the
prediction of Collector Smietanka.
Forty-six thousand citizen8 of Chicago
paid the tax last year. They contrib
uted $2,407,591 and corporation $2,-671,382.
I Colleges of
Articles Beneficial to Agriculturists,
i
Mining, Capitalists, Etc.
Costs and Methods of
Oiling Oregon Roads
By J. W. Fllnn, Roadnuutar Polk county. In ad
drM barfora Dragon Agricultural Col lev Koad
Conference.
"Methods of oiling Oregon roads
may be of the very best, but if the
road ia not maintained twelve montha
of the year, but ia allowed to deterior
ate, the oiling methods will soon be
the subject of condemnation ' by the
critical and impulsive citizen."
This waa the conclusion reached by
Mr. J. W. Finn, road master of Polk
county, Oregon, in an address before
the Good Roads convention held at the
Agricultural college. Some featurea
of the situation common to many parts
of the state are as follows :
"The public highways of Polk coun
ty may be divided into two distinct
classes, earth and atone. The prob
lem with ui, as it is with most every
other county in the state, is how to
improve our dirt roada. How to
build crushed . rock and gravel roads
that will stand up under existing con
ditions of our traffic. Incidentally,
how to get the most for the money,
and last and most important, in our
opinion, how to maintain these rock
and gravel roada after they are com
pletely built, aa no road is better than
it ia maintained.
"I am firm in the belief that fuel
oil, with a content of bitumen, the
higher the better, has been a great
factor in the maintenance of our rock
and gravel roads. It is generally an
accepted fact that if the dust nuisance
is to be overcome and lasting roads
are to be built, certain material other
than water must be used. It ia only
in the last two years that a dust layer
and road preservative has come into
popular use in our county. It is a fact
that some thought it a waste of pub
lic funds, but such criticism, helped by
the continued use of the oiled roada,
has melted into appreciation.
"The treatment we have given our
roada has been purely a surface treat
ment. Dragging with a split log and
patching with banked gravel helps the
roads through the winter, and with the
coming of spring a campaign of clean
ing, patching and reshaping with a
scraping grader is started. Some
times a harrow or scarifier is useful,
and possibly resurfacing portions of
the road to be oiled is necessary. Re
surfacing material should consist of
about CO per cent pebbles varying in
size from one inch down and an ade
quate amount of fine material, such aa
sand. A moderate amount of clay is.
not harmful. , After this work gains
headway, the road rollers are set to
work. When the roller has made the
road presentable and smooth, ' the oil
is applied by sprinkling from an eight
hundred gallon tank mounted on a mo
tor truck. By this method about five
thousand gallons may be applied daily.
The weather should be warm in order
to aid the even penetration of the -oil.
The oil we have used was a fuel oil
containing about sixteen per cent as
phaltum. This material cost Polk
county eighty cents per barrel of
forty-two gallons. Adding freight,
switching charges and the contract
price of three-quarters of a cent per
gallon for distribution, brings the cost
per gallon of oil on the road to three
and one-half cents. An application of
about fourteen hundred gallons per
mile twelve feet wide is necessary to
lay the dust. Better results can be
obtained by using a pressure distrib
utor of some standard make and put
ting on two applications at intervals of
say aixty days. After the first year
one good application will probably
keep the dust down, providing the dry
season is not too long. '
"Although good results have teen
obtained in clay soil by mixing with
bituminous oils, the be'st results have
been secured with a sandy loam. The
oil acta as a binder and is extensively
used where clay cannot be obtained.
"The method of constructing an
oiled earth road should be about as fol
lows: The grade is first made with a
proper crown of three quarters of an
inch to the foot, then furrows ploughed
the required distance apart on each
side of the center line, and the earth
moved from the center out, i until a
trench ia made. Care must be taken
in the preparation of the sub-grade,
which should also have a crown of
three-quarters of an inch to the foot.
It is then rolled until the earth is
thoroughly compacted. Oil containing
about 90 per cent asphaltum should be
applied, hot, in two courses. The first
course should consist of about a gallon
and a half spread evenly to the square
yard of sub-grade, and about four
inches of earth thrown over it This
should be well mixed and rolled with a
tamping roller. Thia machine com
Northwest g
Stockmen, Dairying Interests,
Written for this Paper
pacts the'material, tamping from the
bottom up, until it rides out on top.
Then spread one more gallon to the
square yard and enough earth to take
up the oil. This should be treated in
the same manner aa ia the first course.
To finish an inch or more of pea gravel
and aand well rolled in makes a good
wearing surface. :
"The cost of construction for a road
of thia sort should not exceed fifteen
hundred dollars to the mile, -
"When it is desired to treat an old
gravel or rock road with asphaltum
oil, good results may be obtained by
applying about two gallons of hot as
phaltum to the first square yard to a
sacrificed surface and then by throw
ing on enough pea gravel and aand to
take up the hot oil After this ia
done it should be given a thorough
rolling immediately following, and in
the course of a short time it is ready
for travel. Good country roada that
will stand many years of wear under
ordinary traffic conditions may be con
structed by this method at a cost oi
about $700 per mile. ' Three factors
are absolutely necessary to the life of
such a road: The first essential ia a
good foundation or base, the second a
good grade of heavy asphaltum oil
whose asphaltic content should be not
lesa than 90 per cent, and the third aa
intelligent and efficient system of
maintenance and repair."
Forestry Building Contracts Let
Oregon Agricultural College, Cor
vallia Salem firms will erect the new
forestry building, at the Oregon Agri
cultural college and install the heating
and lighting systems. After a careful
investigation by the building commit
tee of the board of regents the firm of
F. A. Erixson, Salem, was awarded
the building contract for the Bum of
$31,699. 4 Contracts for installing the
heating and lighting systems were
awarded Theodore M. Barr, also of
Salem, for $4,424. (
This building waa recently author
ised by the board of 'regents and its
construction will be completed during
the summer. The contract calls for
completion by September 1, so that
the equipment may - be installed and
the building made ready for use by the
opening of the college year. .
The new , building will be of brick
and its style of architecture will con
form to that of the agricutural hall
and the home economics building. It
will be 80 feet by 140 feet, with three
full floors. -: ; i
It ia designed to accommodate the
growing school of forestry. On the
first floor will be located a large labor
atory for logging engineering and
smaller laboratories for wood manu
facture, preservative treatment of
structural timber, work shops, freight
rooms and other utility sections. On
the second and third floors will be
offices, class rooms, drafting rooms,
reading rooms and smaller labora
tories. It will be well equipped with
modern appliances to carry on instruc
tion and training in modern forestry
methods. ! ! ' 1
Physical Training for All.
Oregon Agricultural College, Cor
vallis Arrangements are under way
for the introduction of a new athletic
policy at the Agricultural college.
This policy was instituted some six
years ago since which time a construc
tive program looking to ita introduc
tion haa been followed.
According to this policy every stu
dent will be given the amount and kind
of physical training that is best suited
to individual needs. It is a policy of
moderate training for the many rather
than highly training for the few. ,
There are aeveral causes that make
the institution of this new policy time
ly. The rapidly . enlarging student
body calls for increased attention to
proper physical development and care.
Healthful exercise and sanitary ar
rangement become increasingly neces
sary as a larger number of people oc
cupy relatively the same space. Sen
timent in favor of this policy has also
become quite general Students will
not only profit by it but will also enjoy
it. , They have come to recognize the
fact that clear and vigorous thinking
is aided by well regulated physical ex
ercises.
Campus arrangements 'have also
been directed toward making this gen
eral training feasible. The men's
new gymnasium building provides am
ple room for the men and releases the
former gymnasium for the exclusive
use of the women.1 The athletic
grounds have been enlarged and tile
drained and will be laid out in fields
for amateur games and sports. .
