A rl Off? fl
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
Ml
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, MARCH 9, 1916
utJiTin mvn ptutq on trains and kvv
PRICE TWO CENTS stands ftvb cent
M :- ii in n n n n ni
II DECLARES
WAR AC'tNST PORTUGA
ti
Declaration Immediate!
Restore German Shipi
1 by the Former Porti
Hows Portugal's Refusal to
'rned On the Tagus and Seized
's Fourteenth Country to Be
come Involved in the Lcai War Has Army of 30,000
and 260,000 On War Footing
Berlin, March 9. Germany declared war on Portugal
today, following the Portuguese refusal to restore in
terned German vessels seized in the Tagus river.
Portugal is the fourteenth power to be involved in the
world conflict.
Germany issued a statement pointing out that seizure
of Teuton ships violated German-Portuguese treaties
providing that, in the event of such seizure, arrangements
for adequate compensation must first be made.
The German minister at Lisbon, handing the war
declaration to the foreign minister, said: The German
government therefore now considers herself from this
date at war with Portugal."
Portuguese and German troops clashed some time ago
in Africa, Portugal alleging its territory there had been
invaded. Portugal later sent troops to co-operate with
the British in their operations against German Alrican
colonies. The British-Portuguese treaty bound Portugal
to send 10,000 men to Great Britain's assistance if needed.
The war declaration, according to an official state
ment, was made necessary by "the illegal seizures, which
constituted a most grave breach of neutrality and special
treaties."
The statement added:
"Germany has been obliged to surrender her former
forbearing attitude, maintained on account of Portugal's
awkward position with regard to England."
It is believed Austria will also declare war, as the
Portuguese have seized Austrian ships.
Many hinted that one result of the breach would be
the entrance of Spain into the war on Germany's side.
MEXICAN WHO LED MURDER OF AMERICANS FACES FIRING SQUAl
j
r
rn 1 s
"A , w
: ' ' : a a.
ttr
. 1
-'i-Cv"
5 , V
f f I
ir o ::
c
lie execution of Sergxint Leonardo Anzac
Sergeant Leonanlo Anzao, one of the leaders of the band of Villistas who murdered over a seorc of Anicrie ins in
cold blood, had onlv a short time to I've after he was captured by the Carran.a forces. This picture was taken a
fraction of a second after t'.ie bullet sped to tho Mexican's he.irt. lie refused to have his eyes bandaged. The con
vulsive movement of his onus after the bullet struck him is plainly shown.
FOUR HUNDRED Ul
BANDITS CROSS BORDER
Report Says They Were Under Leadership of Villa-Attack
Town of Columbus, New Mexico, Firing Buildings and
Killing Citizens 300 American Soldiers Aided by Citi
zens Routed Them-Four Soldiers and Seven Civilians
Dead-Mexicans Lose About 40
"The ship seizures," asserted the sists of one second class and four third
(icrnan statement, "were not justified ems cruisers, 10 gunouu.s iie
on rounds of necessity, ueeause the
tonnajie of the confiscated vessels tar
exceeded Portugal's needs. They were
Hei.cd in a fashion that must be con
sidered an international provocation to
Germany. The German flag was hauled
doivn. and the Portuguese emblem was
run up while Portuguese warships sa
inted." It was pointed out the German min
ister protested, yet Portugal seini-offic-ially
declared there had been no Ger
man protest.
long series of Portuguese neutral
ity violations were listed, including
the giving of peimission to two I!ri
tish warships to use Portuguese ports
longer than they were privileged to
under international law. It was charged
the British was permitted to use ila-di-i'ia
island, a Portuguese possession,
ns -i naval base.
ers, four torpedo boats and one subma
rine. Its personnel is 6,1100 men.
Its total war strength on land is
200,000, but its standing army mim-1
bers only .10.000 men, with a colonial
guard of 8,000. I
FIERCE
FIGHT
ING
AROUND VII
RESULTS III MM
German Attack Concentrated
On Goose and Dead
Man's Hills
GERMANS BAN A BLUFF
TERRIFIC CROSS FIRE
REPELS ALL ASSAULTS!
Amsterdam, liar, fl. Several
fast German scout cruisers, ac
companied by speedy auxiliary
vessels disguised with falso
funnels, conducted a successful
reconiioisaiice in the North sea
and returned without encoun
tering Mritish warships, llerlin
disp.itches asserted today.
It is believed travelers which
saw these cruisers mistook them
for dreadnaughts and reported
the main German battle fleet at
sea. One Dutch skipper report
ed the main German battle fleet
at sea. One Dutch skipper re
ported Zeppelins and subma
rines accompanied the squadron,
This explains stories about a
great German fleet leaving Kiel
seeking the Hritisli.
fill
I
CREDITS
c WEn oi is
READY FOR IRK
continued to bombard eneniv eoniinuni-
ations. "
Thirty-five interned German mer
chantmen, lying at anchor in the Tagus
river, were recently seized bv Portu
guese military authorities on the plea
that thev were needed for transports.
WILL Fm NEXT WAR
Germans Are Speculating As
To Next War Before. Rid
of This One
By Carl W. Ackerman.
(Tinted Press staff correspondent.
Germany imdemintely demanded that, J,,'r""' iilar' "--""mans cc u.c
tlic.v be surrendered. j next great war will be between the I'ni-
At the outbrenk of the war rortugual j ted States and Japan, with Holland pos
announced a benevolent neutrality to-1 on Am,.ri(.a's side.
warn ine nines, aim i-ortugnese troops;
tile said to have even aided soldiers;
of the entente nllies in their African
ril.. i. ,, ,.,t. 'conflict as there is in Germany.
Artillery Battle Continues All
Night French Recapture
Many Positions
London, Mar. 9. Artillery fire
smothered the French on the entire
crescent shaped Verdun front last night
according to the latest advices from
Paris today.
tl- u-fiQ iimut vinlrmf nn Wttll ltMlil.-q of
,. ,r , . .. i, i i i These opcratins were carried out in the
the MVuse. At tunes, Paris declared., ' . ,;. tir(, . ...
ine ooiuoariiueu unuosi eipiuiicu mai.
German Attac'.- Repulsed.
Paris, Mar. 0. Repeated, heavy Ger
man attacks against lictiiincoiirt have
been repulsed by the French, the war
office of f icially . . aiinounceil today,
lietliincourt is eight miles northeast of
Verdun. The attacks, said the com
munique, lasted all nignt. Artillery
fire lasted allinght. Artillery fire last
ing hours preceded the two heaviest as
saults. A French curtain of fire from
Goose Hill and Dead Man's Hill, to the
eastward, shattered all German at
tempts. After t;ie Germans hail vainly at
tempted to dislodge the French from
Coreaux woods, the French began con
solidating reconquered positions there.
Interest Is. Shown by Fact
That Practically Every
Delegate Is Present
GOVERNOR OUTLINES
WORK BEFORE BODY
A. L. Mills Elected President,
and Work Is Apportioned
to Committees
Nowhere in America, except perhaps
on the Pacific, const, is there such live
ly discussion of n Japanese-American
at Douaupiont, earlier in the battle.
Driven from the Corbeaux woods by
a French counter attack, tl rown
prince's men hurled thousands of sheels
to the eastward of Goose Hill anil then
charged. Five thousand Germans were
estimated last in the 12 hour fight for
the Corbeaux district, seven miles
northwest of Verdun.
After suffering severelv, the Ger-
'asional bavonet attacks.
"Around Vaux Des I'ite," said the
communique, "there was intense artil
lery fighting throughout the night, ac
companied by violent assaults, but the
enemy was unable to weaken the ef
ficacy of our artillery, and was com
pletely repulsed,
"In the Woevre district, an intermit
tent bombardment lasted all night.
West of the LePretre woods we cap-
mans drove a wedge deep into theiturcd LIO. In the eastern Argonne we
French lines there, but a terrific cross . continue, 1 to bombard enemy cominuni
fire from Goose Hill and Dead Mans cations,"
Hill forced them to evacuate all hut j
the forest's extreme eastern part. French Losses Heavy.
Despite this reverse, Germans nn licrlin. Mar. !l. Continuing their ad
The j Forges advanced from it to the accom- vance on Verdun the Germans have ca
Germans believe war fietwoen the twojpaniment of a renewed bombardment turel Fort De Vaux, the village
OHATORY FLOOD-
GATES STOPPED
aj.j,4.j.4,,i,,i.4,4,ix inevitable liecnuse .tapan wants tnc until i-rench positions on hills north-, mix ami adjoining positions, it was
' phiiinninc unit in restless under Amer- w-est of Verdun were en.lnnirered. f f;..; II.. .-I,,;,',,,.,! t,.,l;.i- t-'m,.,.!. l..tu,.u
ban immigration and nnti-nhen laws. I Uerlin's dispatches minimized the lm- in the Verdun fighting are now be
Recently when the I.usitnnin case '. portance of tnese operations, saying! tween "D.ODO and NO.OOO, according to
was reported critical, Berlin newspa-1 they were solely to strengthen the the estimate of .Major Morhat, noted
... . . r. . t i i . r,. I ..: .1 . . " '
T pers printeil a disparcn mar japan nan i i roin. i ana, uowevcr, views inciii inoie critic.
volli ,ip -n;t(.i states an ultimatum de- seriously. A renewal of Germany's of- j .
inanding that ,Taianese be allowed to tensive againt xenliin trom the north
own laud in America without rest no-. w ei is expecteu.
Abo Martin
The committee on organiza
tion and permanent order of
business evidently Intended to
provide a method for curbing
the flow of language which pre
vails to some extent lit the Ir
rigation, Drainage and Mural
Credits conference. The re
oort of the committee which
was rend at this afternoon 's ses-
sion of the conference provided
that all resolutions which are
introduced be immediately re-
f erred to the committee nn rcso-
lutions without discussion and
also that debute upon the re-
ports of the resolutions com-
mittee me limited to 15 minutes
with five minutes for reply.
The report of the committee
recommended that a committee
,,f i of seven lie appointed as n re.o-
lotion comnuiice 10 sit mii
the conference and to report
Friday morning.
ooKl!
mm
gXTRft'A1 (V.
I tion Immediately after that it wn
reported America would "back down"
on its I.usitnnin stand.
I A German officer said today: "Ger
I manv is going to sell Japan all th
I munitions it wants if Japan and Amer
j icn go to war."
j Holland's interest ill the situation is
I said to be based on a fear that Japan
! mav seize Jnvaand other Dutch l.ti--!
Indian possessions.
Friendlier Conditions
Causes Rise In Stocks
Round Won By French.
Paris. Mar. 0. Repented, heavy Ger
man attacks against Methinconrt have
been repulsed by' the French, the war
office otficiallv announced todav. Mcth
Use of Dope Increasing
In the United States
Columbus, N. M., March 9 Four hundred Villistas
who attacked Columbus from two sides under cover of
darkness about 4" a. m. today, were driven off after nearly
two hours fighting with 300 American soldiers and
civilians after 30 or 40 Mexicans had been killed or
wounded juid four American soldiers and seven civilians
had been slain. Five civilians were wounded.
The Americans were aroused from sleep, by Mexicans
firing in the streets and into houses. Several were shot as
they ran from their doorways. Others fell in the sharp
fights More the raiders were driven back across the
border.
Rumors that several euests nenshed in the Com
mercial hotel when Mexicans set it afire were discredited.
However, the ruins are being searched.
Mrs. Gean, wife of James Gean, was shot down beside
her husband, who was also killed in the defense of their
home.
T. C. Miller was slain by the bandits before they set
fire to his drug store.
W. T. Ritchey, proprietor of the Commercial hotel, at
tempted to defend his property against the squad of Vil
listas that attacked it. Their first volley killed him. Three
other civilians gave up their lives aiding the American
troops. , ' , , , ,
J L. Greenwood, president of the Columbus bank, an
eye witness of the fighting, said: "The town was aroused
at the first volleys. Armed citizens tried to help the
troops. But the Mexicans first rush carried them through
our patrol lines into the heart of the town. Three dead
Mexicans were found in front of the bank. They prob
ably intended to loot it.
"Villa himself led the raiders, according to citizens
who know him by sight. It was certainly a hot fight. The
Mexicans were not driven out until there had been nearly
two hours of fighting. I understand Colonel Slocum has
not asked for reinforcements, but I wish you would say
we need more troops here to protect our people."
The town settled down after the battle, and all was
quiet before noon. The Villistas in their retreat carried
off a number of United States cavalry horses.
i in
dun
vainlv at
tempted to dislodge tho French from
Corbeaux woods, the French began con-
.,.,,, , , ,. Isolidating reconquered positions tiiere.
(Copyright lOlo by the ew York I.v-1T)l(1!(. 0.,tM.n,ioni W(,re fSlTr-u.,l ut in
San Francisco, Mar. ft. "The use
of drugs in the I'nited States is on the
i v ....... ik.. ..........
or is eight lines nortneast of er-i. , i- . . i , i
,. ... i .i of morphnc and cocaine in the wor
ii. The attacks, snid the eo nmiin -i , 1 , ,. , , ..
.,110. lasted all night. Artillery firo "mnl,;MI """" ..-ss
lasting hours preceded the two heavi- ' P" r';"V'f ''r"K ."T" "rP (,";r11""'
t k .'rn,.h c,.r.i ,.f f i rc r,'n('h Italians and Russians."
from 'Goose Hill ami Dead Man's llill,, Hie tatcmont of louii
tn ll. nnstwarH shuttered nil (ionium ' ''" secretary of the state board ot
attempts.
After the Germans had
cniiiL' Post.)
I New York. Mar. ! Apparently under
I the same influence that caused vester-
dnv's later recovery the infinity tone j rointnuniotie. "there was intense nrtil
f Count Von Kernstorff 's latest memn-!i.,rv fj,,htini thromdiout the niiiht. ac-
bim prices advanced on the stock L.,,,,, ,,;,,, i ,v violent assaults, but the
et today. The irregularity was ev- enemy was unable to weaken the effi
distributed. cacy of our artillery, and was comidete-
Soeculation in industrials leo to " ly repulsed.
I' 'a purty hard t' pit an argyment , activity. It wn evident that profes- "In the Woevre district, an intermit
if vou've eatiu' onions. Kciuember . si.mals were still in the ascendancy, tent bombardment lasted all night,
what a time you had findin' th' ax oft-1 No attention seemed to be made to I Yt of the LePretre woods we cap-
it - uoiv when vou wiua leyf ! Mexican news. Uured 0. Jn the eastern Argonne we
pharmacy today. Zeh is in possession
of statistics showing the use of drug,
among races throughout the world.
"The yellow races won't touch mor
phine nn, I cocaine," said Secretary '.'
'Americans and r.ughsli monopolize itt
' S random
the face of a steady artillery fire and! use. This is because they are pleasure
occaionally bayonet attacks. loving races indulging in late hours and
"Around Vaiix Des I'ite," said the. take it for their nerves to allow them
to sleep during the day."
OIL TANKER BURNING.
Los Angeles, Cal March !t. Fire of
unknown ciiiisk broke out in the big
oil tank of the Yoseuiite Oil company
here thin afternoon, covering the ca-t-ern
residence district in a pall of black
smoke. Three "ire brigades are fight
ing the fire.
Columbus, N. M., Mir. 0. City auth-.
orities this afternoon estimated from
seven to nine American soldiers and 11
civilians had been killed by Villistas
who raided , the town before ilawn.
Tiiree unidentified traveling men are
believed to have perished when the
Mexicans burned toe Coiniiierei.il hotel.
Nearly thirty dead Mexicans have
been found. More bodies are reported
to mark the path of the Vilbsta re
treat. It is feared American troops may
have suffered further casualties during
the pursuit.
Ail stories agree that the raiders at
tacked Columbus simultaneously from
two sides about four a. in. Americans
were killed as tiiey ran into the streets
himself reported in command, crept in
to town under cover of darkness. They
wcro not discovered until "several of
tho buildings burst into flames. The
railroad station was first fired. Spread
ing rapidly from it, the blazo ignited
neighboring structures.
American soldiers dragged a machine
gun into the street and sprayed the
Mexicans with bullets. Alter a sharp
fight, all Mexicons were beaten off and
driven from town.
The size of the attacking party was
not stated. General Villa was recent
ly reported in that region with several
hundred followers and a number of
American prisoners.
I'wo soldiers of an American pairoi
nil,, mi L,nil,u..lu,n
from their houses. C v inns rouglit iiiuien mi r.i . .
ho Idcr to shoulder with soldiers of! freight six miles east of Columbus and
U.e Thirteenth cavalry for two hours warning it not to enter on account of
until the invaders were ejected fromltho fighting there. ....
. , it - a,, o ccl southward. M.i- It was reported w thout conf irmat.on
i hine i ii n h enabled the Americans to that several guests hud perished in the
turn the tide against the Mexicans,' hotel.
variously est inialeil. i
To Be Considered by tho Congress.
Shall the three subjects be consider
ed together or shall rural credits be
considered independently of irrigation
and drainage bondsf
Shall the state issue state bonds or
guarantee bonds issued by irrigation
and drainage districts, or guarantee
only the interest on such bonds?
Shall non-interest benring bonds In
issued by the state to be deposited in
collateral security with the 'federal gov
ernment treasury as a basis for the is
suance of currency to be used for th'
construction of irrigation and drainage
propects and for farm lonns?
Shall state bonds be issued and the
proieeils'loaned to the farmer in the
same milliner as funds nre now loaned
from the state school fund; or shall the
school fund securities be used us collat
eral securities for additional funds to
be used ill the same manner that the
school funds arc used; or shall the bind
sclmlft plan of Germany be followed
and the farmer be required to produce
his own preferred security by joining
with Ins neighbors in a community
grnupt
These are questions that the confer
ence will consider apart from the main
question of whether or not the stnte
whose numbers nr
Several hundred Villistas, possibly led
bv the bandit chief himself, are re
ported to have participated. In their
flight they carried away a number of
cavalrv horses.
(Continued on Pago Five.)
First Story of Raid.
I'd Paso, Tom, Mar. il. In a battle
between Villist I bandits and I'nited
States soldiers at Columbus, X. M.,
1'ollowing an attack on the city by
Mexicans at four a. in. today, three
American soldiers were killed and four
wounded. Four citizens of Columbus
were killed, and a number wounded. An
unknown number of bandits was slain,
iccon liiiL' to information ltngnilier
General Pershing gave to the I'nited
Press today.
General Pershing s statement was
based on a report iroiu Colonel Slocum,
coinniuniling olticers at ' minimus.
Dead Mexicans Slocum declures strew
the streets of Columbus. During tho
fighting four principal buildings in the
city were set on fire and destroyed by
tho raiders.
Women arc Slid to be among the
dead or wounded civilians. After beat
ing off the bandits, the troops pursued
them southward toward the border, Slo
cum reprtcd.
Col 1 Slocum 's conventional report
nnveved no hint of the dramatic
scenes which must have accmpanied tho
attack during the night.
Claim Villa Led Them.
special message to officers of the
il. A. Richmond, proprietor ot
tho hotel, was said to have been killed.
It. C. Miller and another Ameiean
wcro reported among civilians shot
down in the street.
Tho Thirteenth cavalry, a force of
!)()0 men with four machino guns, is
stationed in and around Columbus,
which is three miles from Palomas, on
the border. Villi has eiuainped near
Palomas lor two days.
No Official Report.
Washington, Mar. !. No official
word of the reported fighting between
Americans and Mexicons at Columbus,
(Continued nn Page Seven.)
THE WEATHER 5
Kl Paso and Southwestern railroad here
declared Mexicans, with General Villa'
. .'i-v,.--.-
Oregon: Tonight
und Friday oc
casional rain in
north, fair soutu
portion; southerly
winds strong near
the coast.
