-t ......
6.' . ?.
MAILS
From San Francisco:
China, Dec. 2&
For 6an Francisco:
, Siberia Maru. Jan. 2
From Vancouver:
Makura, Jan. 21.
For Vancouver 1
Makura, Jan. 5.
livening Bullctia. Est 1M2, No. fi67
Hawail.ui Star. Vol. XXIV, No. 770K
X4 PAGES HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII,' WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER '27, 11UG. 14 PAGES
PRICE FIVE CENTS
PROSPECT FAOMG FOM OT FEAE NECSOTI ATnOMS
: 3toB
EditiB
I 1 I I
111! II II II
w i ax i i r
i
.'
WIH INSPECTOR
I!) "HE" IIICIDBIT
CONFESSES FALSITY
J.G. Morgan, on Whose Figures
Supt. Forbes Contradicted
Contractor Lord Admits a
: Falsehood and Resigns
DENIES PIEfUMPERILLED
BY 5-INCH WALL BULGE
Movement Caused By Pumping
of Soft Fill Before Braces
Placed in Front of Structure;
" Board to Authproize Investi
gation By Impartial Experts
.' . . v. i 1 . '
The board of harbor commission rs
this afternoon voted to discharge dis
honorably J. C. Morgan, territorial in
spector, who confesses to making
false statements as to pier construe
tion work. Members of the board in
dividually expressed themselves as
emphatically against Morgan's action
The board also decided to appoint
a special investigation board of three
experta, connected neither with the
contractor nor the territory, to go thor
oughly into conditions on Piers Z, 9
ard 10. Commissioner McClellan ex
pressed the opinion of the harbor
toard by declaring, VWe want to go;
clear to the bottom. of things."
That now famous session of the
harbor board on December 20. when
Superintendent ; of Public Works
Forbes and Contractor Ed Lord freely
- passed the "short and ugly word -to-wit,
'lie" had a sequel this after
non. .' The harbor board had before it a
signed statement from J. G. Morgan,
territorial Inspector,-in which Morgan
admits that he told a falsehood con
cerning conditions on Piers 3, 9 and
.10 the bone of contention at the De
cember 20 meeting. J,
. And it was en' Morgan's statement
concerning -the condition of wall of
Pier 9 that Forbes had. taken hit stand
In direct contradiction to Lord of the
- Lord-Young Engineering Company.
Lord maintained thit-the, wall hud
t?u!ged out fire Inches. Forbe denied
!L Later Forbes, Morgan ajid-'fcther
engineers jf,the,c;partmer.: went to
the pier undrr ' on struct J on and inves
tigated. , ForDe reiterated his aemal.
Morgan now admits his own false
hood and tenders his resignation, but
declares his belief that the pier is
safe, although it has bulged.
Forbes left for Kit mainland yes
terday. The Star-Bulletin learned
from membersvof the' harbor board
' this morning that he was Informed of
Morgan's admission before sailing.
Morgan's statement Is dated Decem
ber 24.; Members of the board hold
that Forbes, is not to blame for the
position in which his department has
been put, and that he Is the victim of
a He told by an engineer he trusted.
Morgan's statement 'brings - up a
new feature. It is this:
The bulgipg in the wall, was caused,
it is alleged, "by the contractor put
ting in a soft hydraulic "flir back of
the wall before its front was properly
braced by cylinders and the f 'deck. '
Who is to blame for allowing the con
tractor to do this is a question still
to be discussed, though harbor board
members do not hold the superinten
dent of works responsible. '
Morgan's falsehood is thought to be
the result' of making a blunder to
which he afterwards stuck, refusing
to- admit a mistake. Just how he
made the original blunder is not
known. .' .
Morgan's confession was made first
to Charles R. Forbes, superintendent
of publ'c works, and Wilbur C. Wood
ward, assistant, being given orally to
them last Sunday. Later Morgan
wrote out bis statement and the con
mission held an executive session last
night to consider it. It was decided
to have It read in the public meeting
this afternoon, the session being call
ed for 1:30 o'clock.
Thr nrnmlnnt ns,1nr will h
stead of a committee of two chosen
by the board and by the contractors.
A member of the harbor board said
today: -
"We do not believe the stability or
safety of the pier is menaced by this
bulge and - we believe the movement
has stopped. Nevertheless, the board
is spending public funds and we pro
pose to have, an entirely impartial
Ijoo'y of expert engineers pass on the
subject. We shall get the three best
men available' and let them make a
thorough examination."
The letter read this afternoon bears
out contentions of Ed Lord and his
assistants for the past week to the
effect that the wait of Pier 9 has
gone out in some places as much as
five inches. Morgan stoutly denied
these contentions face to face with
Lord's head carpenter last Saturday,
reading from his field book the fig
ures which be now admits are untrue.
Engineer Morgan's statement, con
taining his resignation, is as follows:
"Honolulu, December 24, 1916.
'Board ii Harbor Commissioners', Ter
. ritory of Hawaii.
"Gentlemen: I must confess to you
that I did not tell the truth when 1
stated that tbe points on Pier 9 bulk
head were all true to center. There
is no doubt but what the bulkhead
f Continned. on page three)
I NEW YORK STOCK
I MARKET TODAY j
Vester-
Today, day.
Alaeka Gold" ........... 1! J .
American Smelter . .... 104' 4 105
American Sugar Rfg. 109?4 110'!
American Tel. & Tel ... 125 125'4
Anaconda Copper . . .... 82 83', 4
Atchison . . . . . . . . . . . . 1044 104'i
Fildwin Loco. .... . . . . . 60 59
Baltimore A. Ohio ...... 84' 84
Tethlehem Steel . . . r.. . 503 500
Calif. Petroleum 25 25'
Cancdian Pacific ...... 167 167 :
C, M. & SL P. (SL Paul) 9li 91 4
Colo. Fuel & Iron ..... 45'4 46 .
Crucible Steel ......... 62'2 62
Eria Common ......... 344 35
General Electric 167 169'
General Motors . . ....... J.....
Great Northern Pfd. 118 117'.
Inter. Harv N. J. ....V. 113 119
Kennecott Copper ..... 45?4 , 45'4
Lehigh R. R. ...... 80 79?'.
New York Central ..... 104?i 104"4
Pennsylvania v . ... 565a 56 '2
Ray Consol. ..,:T. . 26H 26'a
Southern Pacific 97 97
Studebaker . . . . .i. . . 109!4 111
Texas . . ...... :. . . , .... . 221 225
Union Pacific 143 iw
U. S. Steel . 107 107
U. S. Steel Pfd. ........ 119ft 119?g
Utah 101 102ft
Western Union ........ 96ft 97
Westinghous: ........ i 56Va ;58 i
Bid. . fEx-dlvldend. tUnquoted.
: ' . SUGAR - . : : :
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal Dec. 26
Sugar: 93 degrees test, 5.02 cents.
Previous quotation, 5.08 cents.
ad club lens
TRUE DEMOCRACY
"Democracy goes farther than a
nation, laid Rev, Charles F. Dole in
a talk before the members of the Ad
Club today . at tbe Alexander Young
hotel. 'Democracy Is " the biggest
thin? in the world today. Nationalism
baa been advocated much during the
past year, but the true democracy is
more than a party. . V . . :- ).
"Today a man , leaves one country
for anoiuer toreek his fortune, and
takes the oath' in his new couutry.
No one blames him. It Is done-for
convenience. He goes farther than na
tionalism. Democracy goes to ; the
heart. It is brotherhood and loyalty.
Democracy goes back to a spiritual
foundation. ' It changes the attitude
of man oward man. It does not -ask
what is done for good roads or for
battleships but what Is the method of
getting the befat out of manhood.
"War m Europe today was Caused
because the nations had become impe
rialistic
it could not nave nappenedj
with a true democracy. The present;
system of today invites fear, suspicion
ft.d is really autocratic President
Wilson coula call war at any moment,
which sives him the power of an em
peror in the United States. If I were
a younger man today! the present sys
tem of conscription j would aim to
make me work against my own con
venient. I would rather go to ' pris
on or to death" than violate the. prin
ciples of true democracy. i '
"Education today is debasing our
children. They are being educated to
think of war, creating a suspicion of
foreigneis coming to our shores. ; It
causes cbem to look with suspicion on
the foreign-bora population living in
this country, dood will and brother
hood are the biggest things of all.
They are greater than a nation, and
the test of true democracy Is the
thing that makes life happier good
Will, as concluded. , '
Mrs. George Tackabury entertained
the members of the club with two
vocal solos. W. Borthwick gave Rob
ert Service's "Cremation of Sam Mc
Gee." President Wallace R. Fairing
ton read a sloganof the new adver
tising publication recently issued,
which says, "The United States is a
darn sight bigser than New York."
Hen. Charles F. demons'; resigna
tion as judge of the local UJ SJ court
has been accepted by the president to
take effect on January 15. ! i
This information comes in a cable
gram received by Judge demons from
Attorney-General Gregory. It reads:
"By direction of the president your
resignation as United States district
judge, district of Hawaii, -tendered by
your letter of the I2th instant, is
hereby accepted, effective close Jan
uary 15 next."
As forecast by the Star-Bulletin re
cently. Judge demons has announced
that, shortly after January 15. he will
enter Into a law partnership with
Hon, Edward M. Watson, former asso
ciate justice of the supreme court and
now attorney for the public utilities
commission. The firm name and the
location of the firm's offices have not
been decided on. !
Judge Clemons has been on the fed
eral bench nearly six years, having
been assigned to the bench by a re
cess appointment and taking office
on March 7. 1911. His Aerm would
have expired in May,
WATSON, CLEMONS
CnDMICr.AI CIDM
llllllll UA ML 1
Late -News
MEXICO MAY BEGIN IMPORTATION OF CHINESE
SEATTLE. Wash, Dec. 28 Steamship compani-is oyerating between
America and the Orient have been requested to submit bids for the trans
portation of 1000 Chinese from Hongkong, the request being made by Mexi
can cotton planters at Mexicali. - : '.
r03ECL0SURE'SUIT AGAINST S. F. STREET RAILWAY
SAN FRANCISCO. Cai; Dec. 27. Holders of ll.5j00.C00 bonds of the
Market street cable railway, a part of the United Railroads, today brought
a foreclosure suit. Banking interests are .ivolved. in the suit. Jees W.
Lilienth.il, president of the system, says thit the suit is for reorganiza
tion purposes. '. '
CARRANZISTAS REVOLT-TO JOIN VILLA
PASO, Tex Dec 27, The Carranza garrison at El Oro, southeast
of Parrel, has revolted, looted stores and mining camps and started south
to join Gen. Villa, according to a message from Torreon. "...
Maj. Francisco Arratia, secretary to Governor Arnulfo ..Gonzales of Chi
huahua, has been sentenced to death by a Juarez military court H he shot
the Juarez chief of police. :
CHICAGO HIGH SCHOOLS ADOPT MILITARY TRAINING
CHICAGO,. III., Dec. 27. Youths in Chicago high schools: will soon
be under military instruction, with the sanction and under the direction of
the regular army authorities. Secretary cf War Baker has approved the
plan ot the Chicago board of education. Catt. E. Z. Steever, origiqator of
the ."Wyoming Plan," is ready to come to Chicago with a staff of assistants.
CapL oteever's plan of adapting military drill to youths of high school age
in Wyoming ha3 proved a marked uccess.
TO USE NEW PIERS FOR BLEACHER SITE AT CARNIVAL
Ed Lord, president of the Lord-Ycung Engineering Company, stated
this afternoon at the harbor board meeting that he has promised the use
of Piers 8 and 9 for bleachers at the Mid-Pacific Carnival water pageant.
JUDGE FOILS CUPID; ELOPERS TO REFORM SCHOOL
A Hawaiian boy and girl who eloped but failed to get married, were
committed to industrial schools by Juvenile Judge Whitney this afternoon:
The boy told the court he was willing to get married, but the girl refused
to give her consent. ;Thls sort of business has got to stop," declared
Judge Whitney as he signed the. commitments. '
WILL CONSIDER NEW YEAR EVE HOURS
r Whether Heinle's Tavern will be permitted r to continue the New
Year's cheer until 3 o'clock in the morning at the Saturday night celebration-will
be decided at a meeting of the liquor license commissioners at 4
o'clock this afternoon. It is understood that other hotels and resorts will
apply for a special selling .privilege for that night. Othr routine matters
will be discussed. . ' . . : ' . . : v ,;7-:.- ,v
ELECTRIC COMPANY ORDERED TO FURNISH MACHINERY
A request from the Hawaiian electric Company for an extension of time
on the furnishing of certain conveyor machinery 6n Kuhlo Wharf, was re
fused this afternoon by the harbor board on the grounds that the 'company
received the contract with time' of delivery the chief essence.-. Catton,NeIll
fc Company had made a lower bid when tenders were called for, but were
not awarded the contract owing to the longer time they, 'allowed for; de
livery, - - : . "
, - : - - ; . , . j r. -
1 INSPECTIONS
Dr. J. S. B. Pratt, president of the
board of health, who appeared at the
loan fund meeting today will Insist
on the inspection of every individual
who enters the Nuuanu watershed in
connection with the '- construction of
tne new water project in Hillebrand
glen. ; ,-.
Pratt stated that he wants to assist
the commission in every possible' way,
but declared that the inspection is a
necessity. . He said the restrictions
are no more than were enforced ; at
Wahiawa, Alea and Waiahole In con
struction work there, the result being
that typhoid cases were traced back
to their source by the inspections.
He said the situation at present in
regard to typhoid Is threatening, and
that recent months have shown an
abnormal increase in the disease,
cases .being scattered from Kamuki
to Kalihi and as far up Nuuanu as the
electric station. Officials could not
be too careful, he asserted.
At the end of the meeting Picanco
& Gomes were given a 10-day exten
sion of tima in which to secure labor
ers. They were shown that the in
spection is not as disagreeable as
they at first were given to under
stand. '" .
DEATH FROM AUTO IS
ADJUDGED UNAVOIDABLE
ACCIDENT AT INQUEST
The c6roner s jury investigating the
death of Iwa Yashiro, the Japanese
woman, who was struck by Paul R.
Bartlett'8 car Christmas Day at Kala
kaua and King streets, this afternoon
brought in a verdict of accidental
death, also reporting that the accident
was unavoidable. Sheriff Rose : pre
sided. ; BRITISH PASTORS RAP
WILSON'S PEACE NOTE
(Associated Prr by Federal Wireless)
LONDON, Eng., Dec. 27. The
clergy of London are In full accord
with the press of the nation in strong
disapproval of President Wilson's ac-4-
tion, in sending a note simultaneously
to the various warring and neutral
powers of Europe urging an attempt
on their part to arrive at a basis for
peace negotiations. V
Strong words were used by promi
nent clergymen of London in their
Christmas Day sermons regarding Mr.
Wilson and, his latest note.- That he
has spoiled good intentions by a tragic
mistake, that ' he was either crazy
when he sent the note, or cal
lously indifferent to the rights and
wrongs of the terrible struggle that
is drenching Europe, with blood, were
some of the opinions' expressed.
"President Wilson has marred, his
good Intentions by a most tragic mis
take," said Rev. G. Campbell Morgan,
rector of Westminster chapel, in his
Christmas address. "He has declined
to express any opinion as to the moral
Issues involved in the great struggle
At AvGlaMe
SsTBEET
That Henry Holmes is in favor of
the compromised Hawaii street as an
outlet to tho tnanka end of Puunui
district Instead of Circle Drive is the
statement made by' him today, and
corrects a statement in another part
of the paper. While he believes that
the compromise route is the best, he
is absolutely against the original rout
ing of Hawaii and would prefer drcle
Drive to It, ' .
According to E. W. Sutton this morn:
ing, options on aii the land necessary
for Hawaii iave been obtained by
him without any strings attached; and
Include the properties of Kalaklela,
Nahale, Mahoe and Holmes.".
' Sutton, believes' that if the board of
supervisors approve Hawaii it will Im
mediately end all objections to the im
provement district and work can start
as soon as all legal steps are taken.
"The difference in cost, between Circle
Drive and the Hawaii compromise is
$4000 more for the latter, but as both
George Sherman and the Country .Club
are donating $5000 between them, it
will really cost the county and prop
erty holders less," said Sutton,
KOLDARTllLERY
Hi AT POST
Field artillery firing will be held at
Schofield Barracks this week, begin
ning tomorrow at 9 o'clock and con
tinuing through Friday and Saturday.
Notices have ,been sent out announc
ing the firing, and a large crowd of
spectators Is anticipated.
The firing point will be near the
stables of the field artillery and the
line will run in a, direction to-vard
Kokcle pass. . The danger zone will
be west of the water tank.
DIESlOlFl
Nunu Niolopua was mortally Injured
Tuesday afternoon when he fell from
Frank Mascoto's auto truck at King
street and Aala lane and was crushed
under the rear wheel. He was hur
ried to the emergency hospital and
died later at the Queen's hospital. The
police report that he was under the
influence of liquor. ; . ; '
In which Great Britain and her Allies
are involved. He wants peace to be
declared without ' the wrongs being
righted on account of which we are
fighting. He would make vain the
sacrifice of all the "men, who have
died since the war began."
OFF AUTO TRUCK
NameFarm
Loan Banks
Twelve Cities Chosen as Loca
tion for System to Make
Rural Credits Available
(Associated Pr r4rrl Wlwlest)
' -f 4
! WASHINGTON, D. C. Dec. 27.
Under the provisions of the new
farm loan act 12' cities were
designated by the treasury . de-
partment today as the location
for the 12 farm loan banks which
will inaugurate the new system.
The cities chosen, after careful
investigation by treasury depart-
ment .agents, are Omaha, Neb.; -f
Berkeley, Cal.; Spokane. Wash.; -f
Springfield. Mass.; Baltimore,
Md.; Columbia, S. C; Loulsvllle;
Ky.; New Orleans. La : St. Ixuis,
Mo. ; ; St. Paul, Minn. ; Wichita.
Kan., and Houston, Tex.
", . '""'..;: '. . 4-
4- 4 4 4- ". 4
STREETS FULLflF
Rainfall approaching cloudburst
proportions . in some sections of the
city feirabout 1 o'clock this afternoon
swelling Nuuanu apd Maklkl streams
to flood proportiocOjetween 1 and 2
o'clock and threate .hg serious dam
age. ' In the business section it was
not nearly so heavy,, the weather bu
reau reporting that instruments on the
Young hotel roof Indicated a fall of
7 of an Inch. '
Nuuanu stream rose rapidly and at
1 o'clock the stream had reached the
level of the Kukul street bridge.
Many Japanese boats werr afloat on
this stream and one large sampah was
wrecked against th bridge; at Kukul
street Many of the smaller boats
were washed toward the bay. ..: . i.
At the railroad bridge the water
reached a point only two feet under
the tracks. Lumber and logs have
been floating down the stream and a
jam v was expected at any time.
Throngs gathered along the stream
to watch the advance of the flood.
The rain came down in torrents at
the Country Club and the streams
overflowed. Nuuanu street was flood
ed with water near th.3 entrance to
the club. The upper course was
flooded in many places.
Water flowed down the hills in Nuu
anu valley like rapids, and Nuuanu
street near the Country Club was a
river, according to the report given
out by the city electric station out
Nuuanu street. : ,
. Water came down tne ' Manoa car
tracks sp deep that passage was im
possible in some places .and an extra
car was sent jut from the barn to
assist jvhen debris washed across the
street stopped progress. ; -
At Puwaa Junction the streets ran
six inches deep and all along . King
street the street cars were slowed up
with their fenders deep in the flow
ing water. At Keeaumoku and King
the corner was a lake and the same
was the case at Wilder and Kewalo.
In Kalihi and Kaimuki the streets
were also running full. Street car
conductors reported to the Rapid
Transit office that the downpour was
one of the worst seen . in several sea
sons. : .
At the Queen street bridge a der
rick was holding up one end of a
large sampan while the growth was
being scraped off the bottom. So
suddenly did Nuuanu stream rise that
the sampan was torn away from iw
fastenings and the derrick was pull
ed over. Only the quick' work of the
men in charge saved it from going in
to the bay.
At every . bridge across tho stream
niany Japanese boats have- been tip
ped over. .
Shortly before 3 o'clock It was re
ported that the stream had fallen at
least two feet from the highest point
reached and unless another deluge oc
curred all danger of further damage
was past. : .
TRAKG HORSE,
OFFICER KILLED
(Associated Press by federal Wireless)
WASHINGTON, D. C, Dec. 27.
News was received at the war depart
ment today that Maj. Powell Clayton
of the 16th Cavalry died this morning
at Fort Sam Houston. Tex. He was
injured while schooling a horse.at the
hurdles. ' "'
REPORTED RAID DENIED
A report which came to tlxe Star
Bulletin today that the famous "Blood
town" at Wahiawa was raided last
night and the redlight district women
arrested has been denied by Sheriff
Rose. Chief McDuffie . and Deputy
Sheriff Plemer of Walalua. All these
officers said they knew nothing of IL
.WATER AS STORM
SWEEPMHE EITY
GERM AGENTS ACTIVE, DOT
ALLIES ODJECnO PROPOSAL
British Press Raps Wilson Some More
Berlin Sends Emissaries to iHague, Ap
parently Assuming Conference is to
Be Held
' (AtMrUUd Ptm 8rrte t F4rJ Wirti) . -LONDON,
Eng, Dec. 27. Official circles express the guarded but em
phatic opinion that there is no possibility of bringing about a conference
on peace terms, as matters now stand. The sentiment is expressed that
unless Germany will make suggestions and advance concrete ideas as' to
terms of peace, there can be no conference.
France and Britain hav agreed upon the reply which will be sent ta
Germany in response to the peace proposals made a few days ago.
; " BERLIN. Germany, Dec. 27. After a five-day battle the Germans have '
pierced the Russian lines in eastern Wallrchia. The Russians have been
definitely defeated on a front 17 kilometers long, southwest, ef Rlmnik
Sarat and are retreating. A number of fortified villages have been captured
by the Teutonic Danube army and the Russian retreating on the Danube
front have been captured to the number of 1300. Since December 22 the
9th Teuton army has captured more than 7600 on this front.
On the west front today the Entente forces lost nine aeroplanes in an
aerial engagement. There is some artillery activity on the Ypres salient.
LONDON, Kn.t Ike. -7. (Jermanv is takinjr active tqf t
la-oumtc a Ka e roufcremr.
A (ltMnpattli 'frtmi The, 'Hague' todav pa vs that (iennan agi'uts have
already arrived there to arrange the preliminaries of a meeting of
German delegates, to be sent to the iroiM)sed jeace eonfereme. Thi?
agents are peeking aceoinuuKlatlons at the hotels and ray that their
poverument is preparing to send its representatives.
LONDON, Eng.; Dee. '27. Iening pajers today criticize the
pi-esident, some of them in drastic terms, for his move in nouuding the:
Mligerents to get a statement as to the demands edch side nmk'eH and
jis to the possibility of bringing peace discussions.
The papers geenrally c haracterize (termany's reply to the United
States, as given to Ambassador Gerard yesterday, as an eagerness to
end the war.' . . . .
The .Standard Siivs that "it is a mistake to neglect Gfrman icaco
'. maneuvers, but it would be even
1 1 hem."
'": . The Star declares : ''(iermauy is workiug the Wilson note for all
it is worth.' trying to make pesice by wireless' ; sV f
; Tle Tall Mall Garettc says: "Germany is not slow to seize the
advantages given by Wilson's maladroit diplomacy. The Allies will
not hold a discussiou with au unpunished criminaPor with Or power,
to which the most solemn engagements are inere scrapstpa-ixr,,.... i
- "Ther most dignified course now, as regards-'the Wilson' ;noti '
would be its frank withdrawal." . v ; -
WINTER COLD IS
GRIPPING CAMPS:
CITIES FEEL IT
(Associated Prc br F4rl Wirflest) .
LITTLE ROCK, Ark Dec. 27. As a
result of the tornado which struck
this city yesterday 12 art known- to be
dead, 23 injured and the estimated
damage is $3,000,000.
WASHINGTON.- D. C, Deer 27.
From the border comes official news
that the storm bas done some dam
age to tbe U. S. camps. On Christmas
Day the camp of the U. S. punitive
expedition in Mexico was storm
swept Masts and equipment of tbe
army wireless outfits at Colonla Dub
Ian and El Valle were blown down
and a field hospital structure demol
ished. :
Ef. PASO, Tex.. Dec. 27. The se
vere cold has driven the troops to
take winter measures. , Stoves are
roaring red-hot In the tents of tl.e
soldiers.
WASHINGTON, D. C Dec 27.
Despatches ; from Chicago, Memphis,
Little Rock, New Orleans, El Paso
and a score of other cities all tell of
exceptionally severe weather through
out the country west of the Mississip
pi and Missouri rivers. - ,
Little Rock has the worst tale to
tell by .far! A tornado movinr from
the northwest struck through the
southern and central sections of Ar
kansas ; yesterday sweeping a pr.tn
four miles I wid, i clear an it moved
and leaving behind it a train of hun
dreds of devastated homes, and It may
be scores of dead.
Many Killed ;
Four persons are known to hav-3
been killed; Instantly in the little
town of England, and 17 are reported
dead In Ke0, while a number of guards
and prisoners have been killed at the
convict farin of the state at Tucker.
Definite Information is Impossible
to obtain for the wires, both telephone
and telegraph, are down. Rescue par
ties are being organized by the state
authorities . and ; being, sent tr the
Ioints where ; most needed by special
trains.
Chicago reports that at least 25
persons have been killed in blizzards
which have? swept through tue north
western states, where ).he cold is
more intense than at any time bince
the record-breaking blizzard of 18S.
when the records of the weather bu
reau in the Dakofas weTe orckeu ty
the freezing mercury.
Japanese: Consul-General R. Moroi
will entertain .nil the Japanese,. news,
papermen of the city at bis residence
on NnuiQu street Friday evening.
more fatal to waste any time over'
.-.' Vr' ' V'. '"" "; '.'' i
JDDBICO'O-
( Aiorttd Pre by federal Wireless)
WASHINGTON, D. (VDee.i:!.
Sweden today addrWied identi
cal peace notes to all tlte belliger-'
ents and sent copies -of, t to the
neutral countries, urging consid
eration of terms for. peace, accord
ing to official information here.
Germany's reply to the Wilson
note has not yet- been received
here, though it ,was made public
in Berlin yesterday. "Despite the
disappointment liecanse Germany '
has not acceded to the president's
suggestion and outlined her terms
for peace, the general View prevails
that another step forward has been
made toward the end of war.
GERMAN OFFICIAL
CABLEGRAMS' ,
BERLIN, Germany, Dec. 27. Early
report: On the north bank of tho
Somme river today there was tempor
ary strong artillery fire but otherwise
neither on west nor east front is there
anything important In Great Walla-,
chia the Russians today were ejected
from several positions. The Macedo
nian front is calm.
German Army Headquarters, Dec. ;
26. In some sectors on the Ypres
front, and on both sides of the canal
La Bassee and west of Lens, artillery
activity has been increased. Advanc
es of strong English patrols have
been repeatedly repulsed.
Prince Loepold's front: On the
lower Stochhod rUer the Russian ar
tillery was more active than usual.
Northwest of Luck an enterprise of
German detachments brought in lf
prisoners. -
Archduke Joseph's front: On Lu- V
dova height the- forest of the Carpa-
thlajs, temporarily strong can son fire
has taken place. At Leagra valley,
south of Bona vat ra, an advance of
Russian , raiding detachments failed. ,
Von Mackensen's front: During ,
engagements in the great Wallachian
plain and on the edge of mountains .
south of Raronicul Sarat. during the
last few days 5300 Russians were tak
en prisoner. : Yesterday the often
tried German divisions with the an
nexed Austro-Hungarlan battalions at
the point of the bayonet stormed the
tenaciously defended village of Filt
pesti and on both sides of it strongly
entrenched Russian positions. -
On the Macedonian front successful
patrol advances of Bulgarian Infantry
northwest of Monastir took' :place.
and in the Czerna bend there - has
been varyini? viojent artillery f"-
CMRB
:7
I,
