fit
'FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
STTRrAj
iHthtt
SBSQf g9
icitetttttn
NIGHT
EXTRA.
A
.. 0
VOL. III. NO. 80
V-
SWEDEN SENDS
PEACE NOTETO
BELLIGERENTS
6 , tt t-..h. ..,
JjacKS U. o. in juuurb to JCiiiu
European War, Lon
don Hears
ALLIES TO REPLY IN FULL
British Cabinet Discusses. Inter
national Situation Wilson
to Push Move ,
. . LONDON. Dec. 27.
Sweden ha joined with America and
Switzerland In pence suggestions, the Dally
Telegraph asserted today. According to
It Information, a Swedish note. Identical
In terminology with the Swiss peace state
ment, has I"" presented to belligerent.
Th Swiss statement Indorsed President
Wilson's suggestions In their .entirety and
expressed Switzerland's readiness to par
ticipate In tho formation of n leaguo ot
nations to secure the pcaco of the world.
A ministerial conferenco on the Interna
llonat situation was held at Premier Lloyd
George's ornclal residence. 10 Downing
street, today, rorclgn .Secretary llalfour
made hli first nppearnncn In conference
since his recent Indisposition.
The Allies certainly will not nccept tier
many's proposal, In her note to America,
for an Immediate peace conference. That
was entirely clear today.
iJut the Toutonlo reply to President Wil
son's note was hailed here an affording a
splendid opportunity for Ilngland and her
Allies to set before tho world a statement
which would concretely epitomize the Ideals
and alms of tho I'ntento Powers In tho
war.
By her lack of slncero responsiveness
and the Inconclusive nature of her reply,
England holds Germany Is self-convicted
of lack of sincerity In her peaco proffer.
Strong Influences vvero at work today urg
ing that Orcnt lirltatn make this Insincer
ity still more striking by such a statement
of' the Kntente's principles, v
The lirltsh public n Impressed by the
.fact that despite what was termed a lack
jJ"of sincerity In moving for a real peace,
B the suggestions in Germany's Vcply never
theless reveal a desire for peace. England
attributes this anxiety for a cessation of;
l-yar to Germany's realisation of her wan-
' big strength, and her desire to make peace
f now, twhe,n. she Is yet strong. From now
Ion, Ilrjtons Relieve, Germany realises her
Venwmea will be 'waxing atrbngcr while she
grows weaker,
XAoH Georgo's plans for concentration
and consecration .of nil England's efforts
' foe war meanwhile are continuing. The
(uiial Christmas holdldays taken by the.
Ihteratfers ot tho ministry were overlooked
fbr the Lloyd George Cabinet. Pursuant
s to the promise made In his speech- In Com-
faions, outlining the extreme of the new
K Government on peccrr.ber 19, tho Premier
has Issued, tv call, through the Hccretary of
Htato for Colonies, for -a conference of the
Premiers of British dominions. This wll
bi held at the earliest practicable moment.
The conferees will consider all war prob.
Urns. Jn his recent speech LIo d George
said the Premiers would be summoned to
i take counsel with them as to what further
action can be taken In order to achieve
an early and complete, triumph for the
Allies.
the conference Is specifically called In the
ju&sage of the Secretaryfor the Colonies
"to consider urgent questions affecting the
prosecution of the war, possible conditions
on which. In agreement with our allies, we
could assent to its termination and prob
lems which would then Immediately arise."
Editorial comment on tho German reply
was unanimous In regarding Its phrases as
evasive.
"Germany has countered with this pro
posal so she can evade an explicit answer,"
said the Dally JJall, In an editorial, enti
tled "German Peace Dodge."
Commenting on the fact that there were
many misunderstandings, both in England
and In America, aa to President Wilson's
Continued en Pate reur. Celama Thrte
WOMAN SLAIN WHILE
BEGGING FOR MERCY
Assailant Fires Second Shot De
spite Her Pleas, and Would-be
Rescuer Is Wounded
PlTTammaiL Dec. 3I Kneeling In
prayer in a corner of the room, begging
her assailant to spare her after she had
been wounded by one bullet, Mr. Angelina
Pules, aged forty-two year, a boarder at
t0 Wylie avenue, was shot to death today
In ih xmmmwi ,. iip u !vfr,Year-old
I daughter, Mary, and Angejo Qullano, aged
iwenty-wree years, or Mciteespgrw
wounded by an unidentified Italian, believed
la have been a former suitor of Mrs. Pule
The slayer escaped Immediately after the
shooting
Qullano was hurried to the Mercy Hos
pital, where It was found he bad been
wounded In tho head apd right arm. He
was shot In an attempt to prevent Mrs.
Pules s slayer row again shooting the
woman after she bad fallen
Terror-stricken as she witnessed the
booting of her mother. Mary. the tele-mr-old
girl, alleropted to rush past her
, pother slayer and escape iroro me jwuw.
fw the man, according to the girl, grasped
boa. -.,.....-.., . .. ....I... In her tOA
$ t4 forced her back from the door.
Ma. Powell-Clayton VUs of tall
WASHINGTON. Dec. 27 Major PwveU
t-'lmoB, former rneraue? of the Gral
4 fr years promUwtt aootellF In
Washington. Baltimore sb4 New Vofk so
" dl4 at 3aa AtAAl txtJf :
rw Tava wta MtiyB tm
BUig th mttnjrri ten 4ay f
vMRjt fiiitfiaJt life
CIIARLKS MULLIGAN
Tho 120th nutomobllo victim of
tho yenr wns ntruck by n lnrije
motortruck near Twcnty-ntnth nnd
Mnrket streets while on tho wny to
his home, 7C0 South Fifty-first
street.
MOTOR KILLS STUDENT,
120TH VICTIM OF YEAR
Driver, Fearing Crowd's Anger,
Drives on and Notifies Hos
pital, but in Vain
Identification1 was made at the Morgue
today of tho young man killed yesterday,
the UOtli motortruck lctlrn this ear.
He was Charles Mulligan, nineteen years
old, a night student at the Went Philadel
phia High School and employed at "the
George W rilllngs Company, Twenty-second
nnd Arch streets.
Mulllgnn 11 ed at the home ot his father,
Thomai Mulligan, 750 South Klfly-nrst
street.
He was struck by a large motortruck late
yesterday between Twenty-ninth and Thir
tieth streets. In Market street, and picked
up by C. II. Vanderbeck. of Cynwyd, and
taken In the lattcr's automobile to the
University Hospital, whero he died on the
operating table. Ills right leg had been
broken and his chest crushed,
Walter Hlllslnger. a negro drlier for the
Kunkle Coal Company, surrendered to the
police of the Sixty-first and Thompson
streets station and said he had struck the
young man. He was afraid he would be
mobbed If he stopped, he said, and drojre
on to the Presbyterian Hospital, where he
ordered an ambulance sent io the scene.
The ambulance was too late and Hlllslnger
went to the police.
MORE THAN 30 KILLED
IN ARKANSAS TORNADO
Cuts Path Several Miles Wide.
Two Towns Suffer Brunt
of Wind
I.ITTI.K ItOCK. Ark., Dee, :7. Indlca
tl6na today are that moro than thirty per
sons lost their lives In the tornado which
swept over south central Arkansas late
yesterday.
Details began trickling In today over
wires which were replaced during the night,
but a definite count nt the casualties was
Impossible. No word has como from the
State convict farm at Tucker, where- the
vleath list among the MS prisoners Is said
to have been heavy. Kxtra guards from
the State penitentiary here were sent there,
but communication Is still Interrupted.
The tornado .cut a path several miles In
width. Its brunt being suffered by the little
towns, of Kngland and Keo. The country
surrounding them as devastated and many
persons Injured. Four known dead at Kng
land and a sors In the vicinity of Wo
were reported today.
Tassengers arriving- on a train that
passed through the storm area described the
acenes of destruction, but had no authentic
Information on the number killed and In-
Jured.
"We saw furniture In tree tops," said one
passenger, "Wire were blown down, trees
uprooted or snapped off, and the ground
was covered with wreckage. Several times
our train was forced totop until the crew
cleared the track. Near Heywood we saw
n nouso on n. apparently from lightning.
There were terrWc flashes of lightning and
torrents of rain. At ono station a man
brought aboard some pine twigs, which he
said must have ben blown from a forest
twelve miles away. At Keo we heard a
report that a nero settlement near (here
ha been wiped out and that seventeen
negroes were KlUed.'V
AMERICA? FkAG SAVED
SHIP jfBOM BEING SUNK
U-Poat Permitted gaoramento to Pro
ceed to France Despite Contra.
s " ' fond Wheat Cargo
ifAVrtR. Pe M The American flag
!2rod4 in B1'" channel, her cp
lalHutid hr today n his arrival with
i Jln,u at wheat fren Bbb Aires.
Tuwlsiri UutwSrtne. Captain Flatsr
,,3 statweX b vessel lu the abannel and
SllikndThes bV After looking them
otr fce wlitWw Selt9 eoutd pro-
STaa"sjwirri 'n11' " Vnuot, WtOoh
,- caelLLt oaUaMad It's lueky fer
Sm Myw w AowteaB. r
w.gJ.l to MINHlMd JW Wh
lagST xTucaBfc-o. Ilea task P
DEATH OF WOMAN
BAFFLES SLEUTHS
r --
Accident and Murder Theo
ries Conflict After Nude
Body Is Found
PIECES OF DRESS FOUND
Victim May Have Met Death hi
Lake Denmark Hotel
She Managed
With her nude body cohered with strange
marks, like burns, MIm l.llllan ' Green,
of Itldley Park, was found unconscious In
the hallway of the take tnmrk Hotel,
at take Denmark, X J. Uhe died within
a few hours at the tvner Hospital, In
Dover, without regaining consciousness,
Morris County officials admit that her
a Is on of the mot banting mysteries
they have been called upon to unravel In
ears
Mlia Green was thirty-five eara old. She
had many friends and admirers In the
neighborhood She had been housekeeper
at the hotel for several jears. Her parents
lle In Itldley Patk and she Is ssld to have
a brother, Alfred Green. In Chester. Pa.
County officials are pushing the Investi
gation As yet they are unable to determine
how or where she met her fatal experience.
It Is thought that she-died from the effects
of burns, but how she was burned Is yet
a mystery
Uffort' are being made by Investigating
officials today In link Miss Green's death
with the fire (hlch dstro)ed the Krsklne
Hotel at tlopntcong tandlng, X J two
days ago. Detectives on the case said to
day they had learned that n Joy ride In
nhlch to men and two women took part
ended on the night of the fire. The two
couples. It Is said, nere brlnklng beer, when
the fire Ihst destroyed the hotel started.
It Is believed Miss Green was a member
of the party County officials have reached
the conclusion that after" being burned she
was placed In a vehicle, presumably an
automobile, and taken to the take Denmark
Hotel, where she was deposited by her
escort, who fled
Intense Indignation has been aroused In
the neighborhood. Two theories have been
advanced.
One Is that she was burned while away
from the hotel and was brought back and
left to die there, which would Indicate foul
play. j
Another Is that her clothing caught fire
while she was In the hotel and that she was
fatally burned before alii could be sum
moned. t
Those, Investigating the, case at, first were
Inclined to the former belief, as no Indica
tions of any fire In the hotel were seen at
first. Detectives and farmers made a wide
search ot the surrounding country for cities.
Their efforts proved unsuccessful.
County Detective Kdwnrd I Bminait, of
Morrlstown, said he had made careful In-
C'enlUoed en rs Twi, ftlntue tie
MEXICO SITUATION
AGAIN NEAR CRISIS
Washington Admits Anxiety
as Carranza's Power
Seems to Wane
MIGHT RECOGNIZE VILLA
,
WASHINGTON, Dec, 17 Administration
ofilclala admitted today that the general
situation throughout Mexico again Is caus
ing them serious concern Secretary of
the Interior Kranklln K. I.ane. chairman ot
the American section of the Mexican Join
Commission, today sent a csll to the other
members of the American section to meet
this week In this City to determine what
their bourse of action Is to be. They will
meet aa soon as possible, and, It I ex
pected, will confer Wh President Wilson,
Heoretary'of State Lansing said-
"All that I am prepared to state Is that
the state of unrest In northern Mexico con
tlnues." Officials familiar with the general Mexl
can situation described It today as "Intol
trable." They declared that all Information
reaching here Indicates that Carrania's
power Is fast waning. This fact and the
failure of the Mexleans on the Joint Com
mission to make satisfactory reply to the
oYmands of the United State have spread
Cestlwd a I'as Twe. Celsam Twe
VOLUNTEER AUTO SQUAD
SWORN IN FOR DUTY
Members of Motor Cluba Empowered to
Check Violations of Laws by
Drivers
The latest Idea to catah violators of
the automobile law and eheek the heavy
thefts of ears eame to llfht today when
Mverai hundreo. members of automobile or
ganlsatlons throughout the tty were sworn
in as members of the Citlsena- Auxiliary
Automobile Pollee. ff
Assistant Director of PubU Safely
Davis, who swore in the jeu In the abaenee
p( Dlreawr Wllaea. advtoed them to use
great Judgment tn maktng arrests of vio
lators of lh ttw. The auxiliary Is the
Idea of JPMrealor WJIsea to reauee speeo
lBg. mtflwoWle fataJliles and the thefts
ofsrs.
The Identity of the men who assumed
their new dutie this morning was not made
aniiwo, it bejag explal4 that the body"
win fa batter able to do its work eflt-
, .,.. i - ..i. aitlii ---- (a hrAk
w taw wnigvmmx "
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 191G
CITIES DESIGNATED
FOR RURAL BANKS
Pennsylvania in Second Dis
trict With Institution
at Baltimore
BOARD TO RUSH PLANS
Farm Uankn Soon Ready
for Huslncss, Sana Harris
lA Uy GKOHOE W. NOIUUS
lMtttalhlit nwmlwr f ' FJrl Ksrm
' l,Mn rommtMlon
fjllIK boartl linn now flnlnhcd tho
nnluous ami difficult task of fixlne;
tho I'oumlaricj of districts nnd lo
cating tho twolvo Federal Lnrul
Hanks. We will now plve notice of
the opening of books for gub-xrin-tion.i
to tho cnpltal stock of theso
linnks. Tho lnw requires that theso
subscription books shall remnin open
for thirty days. Uy tho expiration
of tlint time we hope to decide on the
ofAccra nnd temporary director of
each bank so that they can organize,
receive their rharters and open for
business in February.
Capital for fnrm development will
then be nvnllnblo in every section on
long-time loans and nt rc.ttonnble
rates, and the quickening inllucnco
should soon ho felt in every section
and in every channel of trade.
Washington. December 27.
WASHINGTON. Dec 17 The farm
loan hoard completed its preliminary work
previous to getting duwn to actual distribu
tion of money to tho farmers of the nation
today b) designating the twelve cities In
which the farm loan banki are to lie
organised The list of cities was as follows
District No I, .Springfield, Mass, covers
Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont. Massa
chusetts. Itliode island, Connecticut. New
York, New Jersey.
District No I. rtallliuore, covers 1'ennsjl
vanln. Delaware. Mnrlnnd, Virginia, West
Virginia, District nf Columbia.
District No 1. Columbia."". C. covers
North Carolina, pouth Carolina, (leorgla,
Florida
District No t. taulsvllle, Ky , covers
Ohio, lndluna, Kentucky, Tennessee .
District No S, New Orleans, ta , covers
Alabama. MlnisslppL'tauUlana.
District No . HI Louis, covers Illinois,
Mlssburl, Arkansas.
District No. ". St. rau I, Minn., covers
Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota. North Da
kota. District N.O. J, 6maha,.ieb., covers Iowa,
Nebraska. Mouth Dakota. Wyoming
District No. 9, -Wichita, Kan., covers
OklafTotna. Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico,
District Jo 10, Houston, Tes., covers
Texas,
District No. 11, Berkeley, Col, covers
California, Nevada, Utah, Aritona.
District No 13, Hpokane. Wash, covers
Washington, Oregon, Montana, Idaho
Cenllnrtd on !': t'eur, Celuma Ttre
HOPED IT WAS A DREAM,
MOANS HUSBAND SLAVER
Josephine Richards, Wan and
Worn, Weeps at Act, Although
in Self-Dofense
Uy M'LISS
A thin, wan little woman, wearing a ilrab
coat and a blaefc veil, through which her
lifeless brown hair showed, lenmed this
morning thai the huge hulk of a hunhand,
Houston Illchards, whom she stabbed alio
says In self-defense, when'he attacked her
after a long drinking debauch wns dead.
As Is the way with women, Mr Joseph
ine Illchards, the pitiful figure, who will
have to answer the charge of murder,
sobbed her heart out when she learned that
the brute who had uttasked tier with a
washboard had died by her hand
"I would much rather It had been me
than him," she said with a tremulous catch
In her voice, iltr red, overworked hand
played nervously up and down the bar of
the cell behind which she stood, her big
brown eyes, as large and as meek as a
gazelle's, brimmed with tears.
"I couldn't help loving him though he
never drew u sober breath." she continued,
"and I cannot blve that he Is dead. I
didn't go to hurt him. but I had to protect
myself. Ha tame nt me with the wash
board and then he used his lie's. It ain't
the first time He was always giving me a
black eye. but i stayed In ami didn't
show myself so as nut to shame him be
fore the neighbors. Oitoe he beat me so
I had to leate him Then I went uwuy
and stayed away for si month, but It wasn't
any use. I had to come, back to him. T
loved him" '
The woman Is very umail and emaciated.
She weighs ee than n hundred pounds
and Is thirty years of age. Her husbnnd,
though not tall, was a bulky man of ferty.
weighing about :00 She killed him 't
night with a cheap bread knife that was
lying on the table of their home at iZOt
Cambridge street Charles, the man's
tweUs,year-old son by a former wife,
rushed out for help The man died In the
amtAjlanoe on the way to the hospital
"It happened like this," the woman oon-
Ceolianed en !' T' Peluo Two
NAVY VkTaND CASII VANISH
Pclice Seek Cajroll8a' Yoomen and
GreV $80
The. absence of two yewnap. fnwjUie
V. . 8. Carolina, stationed at lague"jl.
and. led to the charge that they Md taken
for their own use 0 blj)g(pf jo the
crew. Detectives started today u search
of places downtown and In the Tenderloin in
an effort to flod the men.
The mlasiug men ar Marshall Williams,
eighteen years otd. of Houston, Tex. a ad
Arteoiue. Ward Pblllfa. Jr iweatr-ose
years, of CUdIss, tow Uoh wers at
tached to te eaatean un board, the eh"
aw, wliew they W lo etwn yeetwday
m nuj,. it wu 4toao-"d that wf
atw miAu. vwit vm wm m
Corisienr,
QUICK
ALLIES PREPARING REPLY TO WILSON'S PEACE NOTE
LONDON, Deo. 07. The Allies nre now formvtlnUun n rgply o
rrastdent Wilson's poe note, which probnbly will clinrly !
line the objects tav which they nre fighting, tt Whs IvnraeH on Inst
authority toilny.
BRITAIN SOON TO DECIDE IRISH HOME RUUE
LONDON, Dec. 27. InuHQllnte action by the Eiltlsh Govorn
meut upon the Homo Itulo for Iirlnml question Is expected-Jfoeont-In-
to tho Manchester Ounrdinti. The ixipcr nthls Hint consultations
on this subject arc proccciuuff. ' v i
WHEAT SOARS ON ANTI-PEACE RUMORS
ClItCAUO. Dec. 17. The wheat market boomed today on lienvy Iftiylng, wild
to bo due to Inilde mlviccs that Wsslilngton saw no liopo of early peuco. Onlns ot
three to six nnd seven eighths cents over )estorday'a last prices were recorded nt tho
close.
PENNSYLVANIA COMPANY INCREASES DIVIDEND
The I'ennsjlvanln Company, which opemtes tho Unci of tho I'ennsylvunla
system west of I'lttsburKh and the stock of which Is owned by the lennt-vnnlu
Hnllroail, today ileclarcil u dividend of four per cent, which mnltci eight per cent
for tho j ear. four per ccntjhnvln&r been declared In July. Tho dividend Is pnnblo
December 30 to stockholders of record the itnnio dnte. In 191U tho company's'
dividend declaration nuKrcgntcd six per cent und In 19U they were four per cent,
l'rlor to that for several jenrs seven per cent wns pnld per nunum, four per cent
being declared In December nnd three per cent In June.
WAGE INCREASE FOR C. AND O. DINING CAR EMPLOYES
RICHMOND, Vn., Dee. I", A five per cent Increase In vvngc for nil the em
plo)c of Chesapenke nnd Ohio station, buffet nnd dining cars who lmo been with
the road n, year was announced today by President Stevens.
PACTS WITH ALLIES CLOSER, SAYS JAPANESE RULER
TOICIO, lec 27 - In opening thu Diet today tho 1'mpuror declared. Hint tho
rotations between Japan nnd Hie Allied nations of I'urnpe nro ttrowlng cjoier. The
Hmperor snld that tlin nlllnnce with thvnt Iltltnln nnd tho convention with Krance
were continually RrnuliiK stronger, nnd lie nddeil Hint tho empire had causa for
congratulations becnuso of Its treaty ot alllanco with llussln. After tho nddrcsa
from tho throne the House adjourned until January SI.
FRENCH AIRMAN BRINGS DOWN FOURTEENTH PLANE
I'AHIS, Dec. ST, lieutenant IIerleauc bruucltt down lila fourteenth onciny
aeroplane on December 24, the Wnr Oirlco niinoiiuteil todjly. I.lvutennnt Hot teaux
In ntallonfil on the front between Chuulues nnd Hyencourt-lc-Clrfinde.
PRESIDENT WILL BE 60 AND HALE TOMORROW
WASHINGTON-, Dec, 27, Tho 1'iesldent ot the United Htatci will be sixty
years old tomorrow. On the ce of Ills second term ns I'rftildnnt. tho KxeuutUd
shows his years piuch mare than he did at boclnnlilc Ills oceiinnoy ot the 'Wlilto
Itoune lu 1912, ilo is n bit moro stoopeJ than then nnd the heuvy linen In hli faco
are much more deeply drawn than they wore before lie camu tluouith tho inter-,
national crises tlmt have confronted him since tho war began. Ho H, however,
strong and well. Letters, telegrams nnd remembrance from friends and relatives
.beirnn pourint Into the White House by scores today.
DELAYED CHRISTMAS PARDONS ARRIVE; TWO MEN FREE
Out from tho Kates of the Kastern Penitentiary this morning went two luim
whoso plans for Christmas nt homo with their futnllles were nlmttered by conges
tion In tho malls holding up pardons from linrrlsbtirg. Warden MoICenty Kent tho
men. llnlph 1'ctrllll, or t.uzerno County, and Daniel Krb. Jr., of Union County, on
their vvoy to their homes with n hearty farewell, the pardons. Imvlni; nrrlved early
today.
HOPE GONE WHEN RESCUERS FAIL TO FIND MARYLAND
NUWPOItT, It. Dec. 27, All hopo held for the steamship Maryland und
nor crew of thlrly-ono men was swept uway hero today with tho receipt jfl( Wlro
less me'ssuRes from the coast guanl cutters Ureshum and Acushnot. The uutters
raptfrted they had reached tho position whero tho Maryland was last heard from,
but could And nothing of the vessel, wreckage nor any traces of lifeboats. Tho
Maryland wirelessed for help late on Christmas night. Hhe was about 350 miles
east by southeast of Handy Hook, tilnce that first mcHsnKo, which said alio wai
sinking, no word has como from hor.
-7
WILSON POPULAR PLURALITY OVER HUGHES, 508,822
NKW YOltIC, Dec 27. President Wilson's popdlar vote plurality over Hushes
at the general election last November was 668,822, according to complete ofllclnl
returns on Itepubllcnn and Democratic tickets, Tho vote was: , Wilson, 0,1IC,23;
Hughes, S,M7,t7t; llenson (Hoclollst), eight Htntes missing, 750,000; Hunly, 225,101,
The 1912 popular vote for lending candidates was: Wilson, 6,297,1)99; Tuft, 3,840,399;
-looaevelt, U 21.9' 9.
JAPANESE STEAMSHIP AGROUND; 400 IN PERIL
TOKIO, Dec. 27. The steamship Hanknku Maru Is aground pff Chefoo, with
orew und passengers, totaling -100. The position of the vessel 'today was aald to be
"hupelesM." Two Americans nro among- tho Hanknku's passengers. tUhefoo is tt
Chinese port in the province of Hhantung, separated from 1'ort Arthur by a nacK.
of tho Yellow Hea.) '
i
MICHIGAN TROOPS' DEPARTURE FOR HOME DELAYED
I'Ji PASO, Tex . Deo. 27. After all preiaratIons were muda today for tho on
training for home, orders were Riven the Thirty-first Michigan National Cluard that
Its departure be delayed. No reasons were unsigned for the change. Raggago cars
had been prepared and the men had expected to go today.
CAMBRIA STEEL PLANS NEW $2,000,000 PLANT
Tie Cambria Steel Company Is considering plans for the erestlon of a largo
plant at Johnstown whloh wilt cost more than 12,000,000. It wtll be used for tho
manufacture of car wheels. Hepresentatives of the company luivc- been, looking
over the ground for several days. It was said nt the ojtlseji of the company tpday
that nothing definite had been decided upon as yet mid that the plans were, merely
under consideration-
I ,i , i in t imp
WILSON COMPLETES PERSONNEL OF-TARIFIBOARD
WAHHIjraTQK, 'Dec. 7. It was announced at the White House today that
Preslltnt WlUon had completed the personnel of the new tariff bqard and thii
Its membership would Im unnounesdv as soon as oeseptanses ar received from
thojHi selected- ,
" I, 1 1 i i ., i i j i ..I..
FAKE FOOD INSPECTOR SWINDLES STOREKEEPERS
A fake food Inspector ts said to have reapf-l a harvest of If bJUs ajoiojig (tnTail
storekeepers by "settling" allegec violations of the food lw on .trllly oush "basis,
I'uro food otlletats ar on his trail and expect to arrest hum wUhtn,tlia next day
or two. Ue is described an a fluent' falkor and speaks several languages.
HUGE COATESVILLE STEEL PLANT TO EXPAND
CUATBSVILM. Po.. Dee, ST The Lukens Iron and JHsel Cwapauy, of this oity,
U to be reineerporated and oapitalixsd at Si?,a,Gaa. and the prest heads, lln,
I. V. and C U HuJtton, will retain shaoiuta oontroL OJlciaW, sptp(a ana t
putli will be penaltted to buy a, (iocUma of the Ant prfwrit bvh pr jt mm
lUv st4k. TO itUM m N "f f-P Vm ltW .ift i$4 tfe-,
lafriiitit Un aw mm Mommhx wW w , um,
lot. Kt ins Pernio l.treta Corxt
NEWS
PRICE OKE GEtf? '-
VMS REQUEST
CAUCUS AID FOR
CITY-FINANCES
Legislators Asked to Favor
Measures Enabling Ad
ministration to Act
IN FORM OF RESOLUTION
Proposal May Be "Railroaded'-
Through, Since Mayor's
Friends Control Situation
.Latest Verbal Hot Shot
in Speakership Battle
Senator Peiirosci
"Governor DrumbnuRh has surren
dered to n fnction of tho ItepubUean
party headed by n Philadelphia con
tractor. "Ito In rcsponMbfe for tho present
factional dlfllculty, as It was only
when ho ceased bolnir tho Governor
of n whole people nnd treating pea
plo fairly that tho difficulty arose.
"Tho present contest Is n protest
nfralri-t theso intolerable conditions,
which are detrimental to the party
nnd humlllaUnr to the State.
"Pcnnsylvnnlans will bo astonished
when Investigations at the next
LoRlslaturo Will oxposo cfandltions of
extravagance, misappropriation of
funds, coercion nnd intimidation."
Senator Varc:
"Penrose is up tu his usual under
hand methods.
"Ho -will sponsor no real investi
gation. If one is mnt(o it would Rtop
when it reached Penrose,"
A resolution pledging Philadelphia mem- t '
bers of the coming legislature to nct'v
support of financial legislation beneficial
to tho depletid City Treasury was Intro
duced at the caucus ot the inember this
afternoon In the Itepubllcnn City Commit
tee headquarters, Dtevcnth and Chestnut
streets.- '
Tin resolution was i Introduced by Dr.
"MlUe'J HenmUl. former foolbnlt etRr ar,4
a Var memberctect of tho House of Ilcpi. e
resenlntlves. It was understood as a di
rect Indorsement of the Smith administra
tion nnd tlin general belief was that It
would bo "railroads,1 thrbugh the caucus
by the Vnre mnlnrlty.
rnwyoriiiinHtii rro nut mi too inu?ipf, ,
Ing, but Ills flhRnv'lal repreaentallte, Jo
teph P. anffney. chairman of Councils
Finance tnd Legislative Committees, was
on hand to give an account of the work
accomplished In working oujTlh city's i'
nnnnclnl prouloms.
Statements and rebuttal on the Spanker
shin fight also took up the early mlnutts
of the caucus. Vnre followers claimed twenty-four
of the delejtatlon, while I'enrose
henchmen said Ualdwln would have sat en
teen votes
WILb DEi-'aND JJAUOWIN
Karller n tho day, following Senator
Penrose's threat to Impeach Governor
Ilrurrtbadgh, came a "defense ot "Dick." x
Ualdtvln., I'enrose 'candidate for Speaker,
from three members bf the Houso of llep
resentatlvea from Cliester County. Tns'
three legislators, Hamuel WhIUker, Marls
M. Holllngsworlh and Harry Oraham, at
tacked Cox for voting for a bill author
ising the sale of liquor on railway dlnlntf
cars and for other votes stteged to b
ngalnst the spirit of local option.
' Senator Penrose's threat was aimed not
only nt Drumbnugh, but Attorney General
I'lancls Hhunk Hrown Tlie rroposed In
vestigation will be asked at the legislature,
according to followers of the senior Hen.l
tor. "Walt and see." was Ilia Sna tor's watch
word as he madtihe announcement
"Investigations pndoubtedly are going U
be made at the neat session of the legis
lature." lie said. "In my opinion, the peopls
of the State will bo astonished when the
extravagance, absenteeism, mlsapproprla-
tloit ot .funds, pojltlcat coercion and In-,,
llmldallon and other scandalous conditions
are exposed "
Benator I'enrose Int1matel there
panic In the ramp of the supporters of IUp- 4
reentstlve Cox. and In threatening At
torney deneral Drown with tha flood ot
limelight termed him "the" paid attorney
of the principal 'street cleaning contractor)
Vara."
SO ItEAL, INVBSTIOATION"
Senator Vere delivered a sharp counter
attack to the I'enrose charges, and. An
nounced that the senior United States 8n
ator would sponsor "no real Investigation,
and "tist (f ay? Invwtlpatlon wrxc rraats' "
at all U would stpp wben tt reaches 'Pea
rose." Vare referred to the recent Citiin
ConunUslon brtSe. and said, i'enisf
begged his Investigators' to gt out of tftwis
so he eould save Ids own hide."
Ti speakerahlp fight undoubtedly gra
inore bitter dally Both camps have re
oslved the announcement of Jams. It
daursr, president of the I'ounsylvanU yii-
Caallaatil a fas 1, Columa it
EOE weather
Pot I'iWalpila usd vUMltt tss
and wcortsf, Mtelf, teith 7ows lj. -jwaf
are asou $jk$re4i Thura4v v)ot.'
a&lj (air, . pfr of ?t, w4eai
south to tcesf vteff. t
i.;uin or ija
Rsisr iius-iitess. s-uu
DHLAWAUK StlWH TWJ5 lUAKW -CH5jrt"r
HTSWKT
gxm-vjgjfB mmm
w -
T4i t
i5ffi5sW3Se.3nJtKL.S. T
V
.&bM
