: v
J$tm.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Snow or rain to-day and probably to
morrow; wanner to-morrow.
Hiiheit temperature yttUrfay, 31: lowtst, at.
Detailed weather, null and marine report on pat 11.
if SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV.NO. 118.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1916. cnvniM, tm, y e bm priming nd rutm, Aoanon..
ONE
CENT
la flreater New Yera.
Jersey City aad Newark.
JKIsewhero
TWO CENTS.
$45,000,000 IN
NEWP0RKRA1D
ON U. S. FUNDS
Flood Jicclnmatioii Bill
Would Enrich Landown
ers in the South.
MONEY TO BE SPENT
ALONG MISSISSIPPI
8,000,000 Acres in Four
Stntes Planned to Be
lteclaimcd.
PUBLICITY CAMPAIGN
FOR THE VAST GRAB '
i
Promoters Busy in Trying
to Seize Uncle Sam's
Millions.
Wasiilnutok, Deo.
si.outam.ngi
"orl;'' In retail auanttties through those
old familiar measures, the omnibus pub
lie buildings bill und the. rivers and
fcarbois bill, to which Titr SfN hss
ia!le.l intention, has como nowhere near!
allfvlii!r the lavennus annelltc of the!
?outlu u Coiig'-cssnivn. now dominating i
Iftlilailon. '
Tlis Demoeiatlc stutesnicu of the South
tliroUKh l!ic lloud rcclumutloii bill, which j
bas iilrtady pru-eil the Ilouso und has
Just been reported to the Senate by a
contmlttec controlled ubsoluteiy by
Southern Senatois. have aimed more J
for the beiiedt of the owners at the
.pensc of .Northern tuxv.)'s, who pay
Si ier cent, of the Income ana corpota
lion ta.e. "WLy tlioulil wo care? We
jtt the benefit nnd the Northerners pay
the tuxes." Thut seems to le the rally
li.gr cry of the Demoeiatlc Congressmen
from the South.
the value of their property 100 times
01 moic, they appear to have lcen over-
Ivoked.
The Kemociuts behind tills reclama
tion sehrme have provided that the
owners of lands along the Sacramento
who nre to be benefited In this manner
1d11.ll put up as their share of the ex
pnse an amount eo,ual to 50 per cent,
of what the Government spends. The
uwncis of this Mississippi land on the
other hand nre called on to chip In
only one-third of what the Government
1. to .pend, us their share of the under
taking. The 1 "1,000,000 acres of Southern real
estate, which Is to be Improved nt the
expense of Northern taxpayers, were
worth before this scheme seemed likely
nf ac'-omplishment from 50 cents to ISO
an arrc. Tho enslncers' reports show
that the average value of the reclaimed
hind wdl be at least 1 100 an acre.
Should this bill go through, the IS.
000,000 acres as tho result of this form
of paternalism will be worth to the
owners 11,(00,000,000. And to obtain
this tlie private owners of this land
n II not have to put up more than 110,
000,000, the Government footing the
1 tit of the bill.
.Merely a Beginning.
It Is estimated that there are II.OuO.
000 acres of land In this country that
might be reclaimed. Doubtless much
'if this will form the basis of future "pork"
hills of this new type. Hut the Southern
eis In Congress have taken steps to get
theirs first. Four States will get S3
per cent, of the money which this bill
f 1, become, a Taw wm ike out o.
.."r..b..Tei..a. ?" "r... ',!. ?lne
the Federal Treasury. The only money
spent outside of the South Is that ap
propriated for tho Sacramento project.
This Southern real estute scheme by
which swamp lands are to be turned
trio rice and cotton fields for the benefit
of their owners at tho expense of the
lovernment, will cost the Government
much more than tho 145,000,000 ap
propriated In the bill. In fact that Is
likely to be a mero bagatelle.
The entire cost of the project before
It la completed Is likely to be more than
1:00,000.000 und for this the Govern
Trent will stand absolutely committed, If
'his bill becomes a law. It Is nothing
short of a gigantic promotion scheme
to enrich the Individuals fortunate
i.ough to possess this land with the
I'nlted Stales Government carrying the
"hag."
Mprrnlatloii la Progress,
Under this scheme the Mississippi
ftler Is to be sluiced between high
leree all the way from Cairo south
nnd made much narrower than It Is
o-day. These levees, constructed, It Is
asserted, will have to be protected wltll
'ement If they nre to stand, and this
will raise the cost to more than 1100,
'"10,1100, It Is the land behind these pro-
iio.efl levees, now virtually useless
whl.h will Jump In value the moment
' .e hill Iwroinvs a taw and thus bring
1 "tunc to lis owners,
.Speculation In this land has been go
nz tm now for some time, tlehllid this
Ijdl has been a carefully engineered pub-
Cosllnu h Math Pa.
ncidiy at tins reuerai irensnr ' i wns revealed when an Intimate Irlend or two angels of the "Tree or uigiu. one V "7"'."'-" military amance o. ... .
through either of , ho other two measures. , , brldegroom. wll0 waH -Ith ,, at , an oyiooat ""JJ "'" -i.1;- .oUtlcTl ud"'JB" W 'tt'?on TX 'tNl Aviators CttlTJ Oil
OloMfclily h Plan to control the Miss-, , me ,, who t0ok , p,Ml(!e ot llenc. It a f'u'h"'' SrouEh the 'Tiee of I e other hand he apparently doe, not, Thlrd-The war will b cnntlnued. n,.11,l11io- OllPfntioiH Hllfli
Hipp! Itlvw. this Hood leclarnatlon bill for two months, made It known. ' 0 bdnE year after year hut wl' l"n hr " negotiations. ' .,ccoroinc to this declaration, until u HOIIIllillft tipeiOUOUS llllt K
Is in icallty u glcantlc Kotilhein land Mr. Colt Is a member of the Mmlly , , , loud a!l anything l're-ent 1'lekerlng is decrlbed as a,Ue lctory has Wen won. , of German LillC.
. ..... i - of Oreurm manufacture! s and u son , " ,.'i,,.... .prompted by lis bl ef that the United ,,,..i,i ,h.n discussed the three
scnen,eunder-!llch,justasa swit. 4.,.. f,o, (n toltojommU. ol(.(. ' State, will, as .....al. permit the endless tr'. V.uesTlon iW "-tto rman I
r.W.WS g rWSS Hm,irTHSdP- I.O..O. Dec. :C.-,.,e,y a.t.eo
Only Two Item la the Rill. i
nstss oiriunp it a nu
l niiKe ine two oiner nira j-, ... . .mhihim ai.anin
uils r.ow before the prenent congress. -. ' , b,en lhc lure that kept tne nu.uence ine imim -''tv " usiaii ir"'; ',, ,".,,,1 In the vicinity ot Oueitecourt the Hrltish
thh new wholesale "po-.k" distribution QAVVC TIDI CDnif CIDr In Its seats, closely attentive, all . play his cards ilaTit up to the la-t mo- eminent' attitude. In ward t oiu on ' bon ,hardnui.t of Ormau
p!an contains but two Items. Jne Item HAY CO Of Iff. t kXUlU tIKC. through the oratorio. For though n few ment. uuestions was one ;ot ""lJ? i g-,-..ls to-dav. alth results that are
. i kmm u h a v ae v mmmm '. .. ..., ., . . . t, , . , . ... .. .1..., ij , n iTie 1,1 v.
eppron kites In effect H 3.000,000 to I e- Itft ietween numbers, they were not I - vor" , ".V 1
ijalm itramp lands along the Mississippi ' enouRh to make r.ny difference In the CABRERA MAKES DENIAL" ZM " M, tlie Hrli.sU and
wuth of fl.e Ohio. The other Hem Vnst sea of face, that turned toward, ' TI.ej m.u . r').'",r' J'- busy Sunday night and
antrjprateH 1.-..800.00O to control the Sue- Po.ec Altillial I' illtls .lail the great stage, built It. al the east. ....,, . ,,,, s ,'iU, ', n rnLl ?erll .ome of the former carried
ramento ltler in Callfornln. ... , end of the Harden, where the chorus sat. I "" 0 1 ''" H" " ' 'until I ie ra xage I1 nrrii.1?, ta t'efA .-reatVa on Fiicc.f..l bombing operations back
Wnlic prluite owners of landr along t AlllaZC Ulltl Woillllll I'I'In- An audience typical of New Yo.k it for Haiti Protocol. ' an. !' i"1." ' ,vhleh thVexletencc. of the German lines, sud French avl-
tioubiesome rlvow Mid creeks In the surely was. Women from the tenements , , ,.a)ima head of the Mexican ' ; .?ai nations would be assure,! and at.-rs shelled the mllwiiy station nnd
Nullum titate.. would appear to have Oliei' Near Deatll. .with shawls over their heads hurried ,,,, ,, , ' ,,7 J, 1 c ,mH I whS T Jsn I W " ni:tlta barracks at Nesla and Herman encamp-
I! ame rUhl l th funds In the along side by side with women In opera ,0" '",,', J" n ,0I 'Vt we " m, hi rmnosslbl" ntents In the .'hnpltre wood and at
i.u'aHc T-.ea.uiy In older 'to Increase ! cloaks. An old whlttr hailed man with Ourscainn.
'TALK OF BOND ISSUE
TO MEET BIG DEFICIT
TaxcK Also to Be Increased on
Beer, Whiskey and
Cigarettes.
'WashinutoN, Dec. 28. Issuance of
112,1Q0,000 of Panama Canal bond, In- j
creasej income and (Mate taxes, nddi
tlonal taxes on whiskey, beer, cigarettes
and bottled waters and higher tariff'
duttea on coffee, and tea arc proponed In
a tentative programme to bo considered
by the House Way and Meant Commit
tee when It begins framing revenue leg
islation to meet the prospective deficit of
U70.000.00U at the end of the next rtscil
year.
The committee wilt undertake Its task:
soon after Congress reconvene next
week. There nre Intimations that the
President may decide to address Con
gress noon to outline how he thinks the
necessary money could be raised.
The President Is understood to oppose
bond Issues except for extraordinary
emergencies. Speaker Clark believes
, that an extra session will be necrssnry
to consider revenue measures unions it
Is Ksslbln to meet the dellclt by u bond
, Issue und Income tax Increases. Home
'f the tax Increases proposed nre 11.2
Instead of 11.10 per gallon on whiskey, Il0r .silvers, the clown, ever brought a
. ! .,?-'iJlf-".''..-""...HrVr'more eager multitude than packed the
brln ln from J".090.000 ,0 HMOu.OOO.
C. CRAIG COLT WED
A !
QVf.QITTT V TA NUftQP
UU VllliA U 1 IV llUllU
'
J
Bride Miss Margurcl Jluc" ar.a ," 'Z?
t
Donald On Honeymoon i
for 2 Months in West.
It lifetime knonn Vesterduv that
Cral Colt, wealthy New Voiker and
number of the Union, Tuxedo ami other
clubs, was married two months ago to
Miss Margaret MacDonald, n trained
nurse of this city who took care of him
durlng a recent Illness.
Since that t mo
the two have been on a
ruu..., , ,
through Southern California. The secret
House In
summer.
iliss .Macuonam, it is unacrsiooo. eni
m it.hvh verm month. .o t., tn.r.e 1
hlm. When they became engaged It was
derided. In order to avoid publicity, that
they should go to New Jersey to be mar
ried and then go Went unannounced.
STAiiroi:". Conn.. Dec. SC.-
-1' rltz, the
1 llelglan police dog. pursue human crlm-
inala by nay aim rots ni nigni. r.rry
evenlnt I'atroltnan Dennis rtrardon
who doubles ns Janitor of tho Stamford
lockup, lets Fritz Into the Jail for his
scrimmage with the rats.
The moment the dog. In his tour of
duty, reached the threshold of the. wom
en's quarters last night he began to
bark. The Janitor, hopping upstairs,
found the rooms full of smoke. He
charged Into the only ocaupled cell, and
there wns Julia Hogers lying uncon
scious on a burning mattress. The fire
was, within eight Inches of her head.
She came to In the Stamford Hospital,
but wouldn't tell how the blase started.
A half burnt match was found in the
cell.
Miss lingers was under arrest charged
with taking a pair of shoes and a rlnx
from her sister, Mrs. Clement Currier
of S Hell Court. Thanks to Frits, she
Is still a live prisoner.
V. S. TUG RAMS BATTLESHIP.
Trader Sonoma Tears a HI Hole
.
i la the Delsnsrr.
Norfolk. Va.. Dec. 2G. As she was,
trying to make her way Into the harbor
the Atlantic fleet tender Sonoma, proh
ably the most powerful tug in the
American navy, lore a six foot hole In
the stern of the battleship Delaware this
afternoon, In trying to nvold hitting
other warships moored near ny tne Ho
noma struck the Delaware a solid blow,
i Her bows cut tS.roi:eh the plating of the
the
battleship above the water line.
The Sonoma's uows were cousicieramy
damaged. The Delaware was to sail on
January S but the accident will delay
her departure ten nays.
WIFE DIVORCES G. R. VENABLE.
Dana-hter of II, K. Slrllarc t'liarsrd
XaTBl raysaaster With Cruelty.
Mrs. Marlon McIIarg Venable, daugh
ter of Henry K. McIIarg, received a di
vorce from Qeorge H. Venable, Paymas
ter, U. S. N In Hrldgeport last Friday,
It was learned yesterday In Stamford,
Conn., where Mrs. Venable Is now living.
Judge uiiger signed tlie decree, whieii
was sued for on the ground of cruelty
which forced her to lenve him. She men
tioned a time shortly after their baby
was born when, tine said, her husband
had struck her In the fare. The suit
was not contested, but tho defendant wns
represented by counsel.
Admiral Dew, 70, Celebrates,
Washington, Dec, 20. George Dewey,
the Admiral of the Navy ami hero of
Manila Bay, celebrated his seventy-ninth
birthday to-day. Many visitors came to
pay their respects to tlie Admiral, who
Is In fine health. Including Secretary
Daniels, the chiefs of the bureaus and
other otllclals of the Navy Department,
rMmiDAH riNBT Ttur in hkrvk ie
Jan7M. "N.Y. rtorlf a Hpeeiil" lure. :uj
p, el. Dally. Atlantic Ceast Lin., till B'way.
4V
..,.... . ,.uuu iici.vit, m i
18,000 IN GARDEN ICARRANZA6ETS
HEAR 'MESSIAH'
Impressive Tree of Light
Celebration Precedes
Indoor Chorus.
MADISON SQUARE AULOW
Biff Bashful Audience Nearly
Loses Its Voice, hut SinffV
"Silent Night." .
Dluna, atop Madison Square Garden, i
lias seen many a crowd struggle for
trance to that old hall. She has seen
the thousands flock there for prise lights
and for suffrage balls, for charity ba
mars and political rallies, for horee
shows and the circus, but no attraction,
neither llooscvelt nor President Wilson
Garden last night to hear the Community
Chorus sing '"The Messiah."
The performance was a pan oi coming tm, in(f drawn out negotiations
, "Tree of Light" celebration, and began , of tUf cmn,ii0I1 m be .jeclure.l a fall
with a big open air festival In Madison Vlf
8quare l ark whero tl,e "ven,'nve IO"1
hlBh ,rf0 ,,nnd!'' a-lltler w,lh co,or .
Hint. Thousam'.s or men. women aim
children, massed In the pathways. Joined
with the chorus of 1,000, which, Bland-
uncu uiu " "
ducted by Harry H. liarnhart. for a
liiiarter oi an iiour. .
At S o clock the caorus uesenueu iruin
Ati-rela Hover Hetnasl Abstit. I
tr mrnhait led the line, and be-
fldP hlm marched Park Commissioner
. . ... ' . . ...... . ,t.t
t:atNt waru. singing wmi - usui "i
nroved the city administration to i
- . -,.i Around and about
'ho mslodloua procession hovered the I
I with an eagerness which should forever
! Mlenee the notion that New York doesn't
" r," ." " ..i,. the tvnteat Vew
rc for good music, the tjpuat .ew
York audience Just poured In.
Oratorio l.nre of Thousands,
the stand nnd, with the noy scouts " ne ontllnrd ins programme aru r.is uras
t . , i t- I... n mn.AliU miii'lt l.ttifr.r h i rri til.il hnrt. wltlt the I . .. ....... . .....
marcmiiK ainngsiiir, humim "'- i ; r . ' ;, , . in reeard to tlie present ponueni situs-
yitietvti'. with their wnnus Held non- niieii iairs uovrriuiic'ii. ine .neAieuu . ,
xaiignn witn tneir .""""""" , i ,,-,,, , v.. vn,t nn,i 1 Hon. Heater's Petroirrnd correspondent
XOUtatiy, enu to enu, iiic jn roivu ,w i . " ,.x w ... ... .. -... ,
I the Harden, singing Arthur Karwelfs Secretary Lane, ch.thm.in of the Amer- says tliut In general this Mlnlstctlrl
'"March! March!" as they walked. lean Kec'.lo.i. has been expectlna: all day declaration, which seems to Imye been
' tn lti.1- sn:iif ieur.t ft-.uu them uliteli tue.mt to tnkn the olace of the usual
Cinlcs might hse said that the fact Hut Currania will not heileve till- pioposuN. ho said, the Ideas or trie lius
that the performance was free had ' Government Is In earnest, lie l said ian (lovernment In regatd to Mr. 11
I i... ,t witii It hut eettlni- to have Informed orllclals In Mexico that nun's action were almost analogous with
minethliis for nothlnr couldn't have
1 ..mm eiiintv sleeve, tilalnlv a civil war
veteran, followed some cherry cheeked
j ,gi, fcxo,, girW. An old negro crept
1 j UIllI asked If there was a scat for
hlm, tecrlvhic the hearty answer. "Seats
for all."
Illeh and l'oor In Vast ThrniiK,
Mothers with their sons, young men
Just back from the border, In khaki,
fathers and mothers with their little
children, rich and poor, richly clad and
shabby, young and old, all came hurry
ing In together.
There were blind people, led by their
friends. There were deaf men and
women, wearing contrivance for hear
ing nt their ears. There were lame
people, limping eagerly along.
If nny element pieponiler.iled ll was
citizen with cheap clothes and dark, In
tent fares, music loving Italians and
Itusslan Jews from the Last Side.
The captain of tho Twenty-flist police1
precinct, there on guard with some of
his men, was stirred to enthusiasm by
the democratic outpouring. Hushing into
the building Just before the music be
gan, he tluew his arm uiound the shout-
tiers of one of the Tire of Light angels
i the one In the overcoat and slouch hat
i and cried:
"Isn't tills gieat ' Flre.t ciond I ever
saw and the least tioubietome,'
A Study In Black and White.
Tlie chorus massed on the stage made
a study In black and white. The women
in white dresses occupied the centre and
the men In their black suits Hanked
litem on ciiuti uticv ruiiftn jic-
ceded the oratorio': "America." In which
them on either side, Three songs pre
the audience was asked to Join stand
ing: "March! March!' and "Joy!
Brothers, Joy!" Then rams Handel's
wonderful overture, nnd then tlie tenors
In "Kvery Valley Shall He Kxalled,"
The bad acoustics of the place reduced
j the volume of sound of course, making
lit fur less Impressive thuu It would have
been In Carnegie Hall, but It tang sweet
' nnd true, and no Carnegie Hall nudlence
could have been as impressive as the one !
that listener last mgut.
In the Interim after the chorus, "For
Unto Us a Child Is Barn." Mr. Ham
hart requested the audience to Join In
singing three songs: "Silent Night." "O,
Come All Ye Faithful" nnd "Hark, the
Herald Angels Sing." It was then that
Mr. Harnhait realized the dllllcultles of
a conductor of the, people's music and
nt the end of his struggles he could
havo most feelingly pnraphiased n popu
lar saw to this errect: "vou can lend
the people lo n concert, but you cannot
make them sing.''
"Now." he shouted, "sit Join In 'Silent
Night.' "
Crond llll by Stage Prlttat.
New York wns Immediately seized
with that acuto hashfulness which
afflicts it when nsked to do anything
like that In public. A feeble response
was heard heie and there from the floor
and balronles, but the result wus so
poor that the conductor asked In despair:
"1 wonder If you could hear yourself?
Now watch me!" he roared, waving his
baton violently, "and see It you can't
make a little more noise. Don't be
Cosllaned ot "event Page.
48 HOURS MORE
Commission to Be Dissolved
Unless Satisfactory
Beply Comes.
WILSON LOSES PATIENCE'
Drastic Mexican Policy Likely
if First Chief Fails to
Sign Protocol.
Washington, Dec. 2C. The prcd.ctlon ,
en-0fflclaU made In Tub Sun two weeks!
ugo that President Wilson would sum-
marlly terminate the conference of the,
Joint Mexican-American commission It I
Plrst Chief Currania refused to sign the '
protocol drawn up In Philadelphia Is
now about to be put to the test. '
It Is said authoritatively that the Pres-
(iltMlf'ti ti.itln(A ! vlintiafi1. titul flint 1
unless a satisfactory reply fiom the Mex-1
icun First Chief l Immediately forth
It was stated early to-day that a leply '
must be forthcoming U.ora midnight or !
the commission would be dlsiolved.
Later, when it was seen that the reply '
would piobably not be here, it was said '
that unless Carranza replied within the
next forty-eight houts th rommlHiioii '
probably would be dissolved.
The situation has now undoubtedly
. ., .,,., ,.,.
..-..t- .... ...- ...... v. ........... ,
nould l:sen the tiiefulnms if the com-
mission nllvc. So far as known no word
"d "ecu received up to a late hour.
The illttteilllv Is tli-it farrntitii nn-
v. ... ..7..,". ' V'
rarenuy is playing nis pom rai game
J""- "r " "s unvrrnmen; win 11-
'"It. He desires to frtif.rato the itlnu
but he realises that Carransa Is taking
shrewd advantage of this. The mo,t
likely solution would he. It I explains I,
to convince Carransa that the I'nlted
Mtatee is in neaniy earnest wnen it says false and hypocritical moves oi me ir
he. must sign the protocol or reject It ' Jin dovernmeut."
and nd the parleys. . the note coincided with the Qeiman
the knew "Just how far he could Muff .
yestetday In New York theie Is no es-
pedal need of h.-te In completing the'
ncjotlul.jiis lie and his rolleagu-fl hae
been mraged In since la-t September. ,
l.e'h'::! "ir'tm
four hours within which to elve Gen.
Cnrrania s acceptame of the prototol
i.r.ni'n 11,1 l.i III. ,,,Mi,nlii.lA, 1
commlssln!!.
iti.. ...v, I. i... .........1
irom tien. wnrranza. ne san. -lie aI 1 says
ready has made his move. I hive been r'hK i'nlted States Ambassador hinde.l
in constant communication with Gen. .,rMlli:nt Wll-on's note to Foreign Mln
C'anaiisa, and I can say thai there I- . .okrov,kl last evening. Iiulan
nothing In our coinmunleallops 'hut i ..,,.. while ln the main pay-
cl:un the slttiat on fiom that which , , ,ut( to , lof,y humanitarian
exfeted when we last ,,t the I'nlted - 1 rmnptlni; the move, is pi-irtl-Slates
commls.loners." he ,u(d - unanimous In the conclusion that
Senor Cabrera lefused to be questloneil, ' 'ni chon hy Hresldent WINon
hnwevf.'. on the nature of the Citrniixu V' iiinnnoitune.
leply. which when it was brought here
Iiniii Mexico city hy Albert I .1. Panl,
...... .... .'.n t,lr.i. ..nr..u.t.l .,)....
rally In December, wss said to le a ie-'
fusal of tlie terms embodied by the coin
mlssloncix from the I'nlted Stales
been given a day of grace; that If we
"I read this morning that we had
did not answer by to-night Kmiethlng . -ou ueiwceu mo ani.
terrible would happen." he i-a!d. "That liferent grisjtw. In his profession if lg
Is not so. There iae been no ultlnin-. uonince ns to the precise nature or those
turns made by us or upon us telling us ulins the journal goe so far as to see an
whaft'me had been set for us. We are i unmlstakuble disci Imlnatlon In favor or
not limited. So far as I know there has I Germany, whose submarine piracy, t
been no change of the plan of your rep-1 says, Is, if anything, more gently dealt
resentatlves to tesume the negotiations with than Kngland's "absolutely lawful
on January 2, I can't ray whether they selimes of Ameilcan contrabanfl.
will be held here or In Philadelphia," ' While thanking Mr. Wilson for the
Senor Cabrera was asked If the recent reminder that neutral interests are suf
vilt of Mexican financiers had an) it-'feting the .Voroc Vrempn asks ,what
latlon to the SO,000,000 loan that lias
. : . v ',, ,
ucen pioposed for Mexico
Our commission has not talked of
til loan. That will not come until we
have finished our work. In (act, I ex-
pert tht loan will be discussed outside1
the commto.-ilon altogether."
SAN LUIS POTOSl TAKEN.
Caiitarril by Villa, Areurdlna to
111 I'nso llepnrts,
Kt. Pirn, Tex., Dec. 2C A leport was
received late to-day by sources known
t i be close to Villa, and hy Government
ngfhts, that Villa's forces captured S.m
l.uls Polos! yesterday. Many foreigners
who left Toircnn before Villa nttueked
that town lecently went to San I.uls
Potosl. The foielgners who lemnlned In
Torreon nre belrjj protected by Villa.
San I.uls Potosl Is southeast of Tnr
i con, on the National rnllro.nl line, he-
tween Aguascntlentea nnd Tainnlco.
Tampico Is believed to he Villa's oh -
Ia.II.'. In nfilri I n nhtriltt n .,.-, h..,,t.
Jectlve, In order to obtain a port through
which lio ran import supplies. Villa was
reported to be between Torreon nnd
Chihuahua, preparing to attack Chihua
hua soon. He lias apparently cut Car
rnnxa's communication hy rail with the
border.
In anticipation of this attack, Gen.
Francisco Murgula was reported to have
ordered Gen. Francisco Gonzales, for
mer commander In Juarez, to proceed
south at once to reenforce the Chihua
hua garrison,
IIKWICVM KTKRII.IZKII CUtAfK Jtill'K,
Bate and nourishing for chlldrtw tad iBralids.
til Tulton HI., N, V. fhent 3t Cort.
4 r.
BERLIN'S REPLY REBUFFS WILSON;
IT FAILS TO GIVE PEACE TERMS;
ADMINISTRATION IS CHAGRINED
Russia to Continue War
Until Decisive Victory
Is Won.
K01.Kly MINISTER
OUTLINES THE PLAN'S
. . ,,.,n, Vniniwi t nit flu
tie JH'ClllKS Mil pi It iMUlHIS
Ci1!ilt' With tlin
rMUHll.t Willi Ull
Vlllnu
-lllHS.
ECONOMIC UNION
KTKU THE ('ON KMt T I
Military Alliance Be Con
sol idated Polite "No"
to Wilson.
Lo.viKj.v. Ic. SC. The Uusslan For
eign MlnUter, M. l'Jkrovskl, Invited the
representatives of the press at Petr-
,,,...,., A ,.., Ini.rvli t which
j., .. - --
snreeh liefore Parliament, consisted of
u few clear proponltlons. as follows :
Mist There has been no change
i .... ,..!.. d 1... u. n.i..tn nnd
i-i."m u.-v.
. .r allies.
Second The Minister declared with
e that aner me -iar me
v,ii,k. .rood will and tha lofty
inHne' motive" of the President's note,
j,, ,irolareil It could alter In no way
the oUtlral slltiallon created by "the j
iI.om- which had been set forth by the,
.,,.., npr.t.o Kl'H'V
RUSSIAS PRhSh
u, r rei.." Sees IILcrlwilua.
' .. ... I'"- , er.y.
il CohU lUMUl. la Tm Srt lro lU ,
.unJts nr.i
ir.vi.ov. Dec. 27.-A special to the!
" .. , I
r,M- liiv .-i Hon was Inopiuil tunc.
"For once the .Voroe Treinyn and the
llrllh llnil Iliensseivrn unsii'-ii in ".,
thetln treatment of the note, though the
former treats it with greater ceremony
Hum does tlie llttih, Tho .Vocor l'reini
does not attempt to conceal Its anger
I that Mr. Wilson should make no list nc
Washington or Lincoln would nave re-
plied If nsked to ceaeo resistance
for
i the sake of ueutial Interests. They un
doiihtedly would have replied. It says;
1 "If you arn really guided hy a true
ioe for mankind then defend tho just
cause and help us to estnbllth such con
ditions that n repetition or sanguinaiy
rule by munitions schemers win become
Impossible."
"Tit" feeling of riussla as n whole
may hi uptly tiimincd Up In M. Hrusl
lofT's order of the day to tho troops,
which stutts that 'Ihe. war consists pot
In doing whnt the foe wishes you to
tin,' " says tho PflcU.
A IVtromnd despatch to the Tim's
under Monday's date says:
"In Paillainentary circles Mr Wll
mui's note was very coldly received. A
majority am convinced that the IVesI
dent's proposal will not create any
ground for the beginning of peine ne
gotiation "Many iui llamentailnns hold that Mr.
Wilson. ."i'iHclotdy or unconsciously. Is
, ,u-tiiE in Germany's Interests, Some even
: . ...... .,. .....I I......I . i...
SUKXCSI mill Ills lli'lion wur. insjorrii uy
Germanv. An overwhelming majority
consider that the formulation of terms
by tlie Allies will bn possible, only when
Germany ceases to pose, as a victor and
realizes the futility of continuing prit,
cut conditions."
redUh Note Presented,
Lonpon. Dec. 27 ( Wednesday ) The
fid llw rrlrpitiph says It understands a
Swedish note, ldontle.il In purport with
the note of the Swiss Government con
cerning President Wilson's pence Initia
tive, has been presented to the bellig
erent Governmnts.
i ;i nil UKFururu
.... . l'ntf nnn
Text of German Reply to Wilson
BERLIN, by witeless. Dec. a6. Germany and her allies Austria
Hungary, Bulgaria and Turkey to-day replied to the note of
President Wilson in which he asked that the belligerent nations ttate
the aims lor which they were fighting. The text of Germany's answer,
which was handed to James W. Gerard, the American Ambassador,
reads as follows:
The high minded suggestion made by the President of the
United Stntei of America in order to create a basis for the estab
lishment of a luntlnj? peace has been received and considered by
the Imperial Government in the friendly uplrit which was ex
pressed in the President's communication.
The President points out that which he has at heart and
leaves open the choice of road.
To the Imperial Government an immediate exchange of
views aeems to be the most appropriate road in order to reach
the desired result.
It begs, therefore, in the souse of the declaration made on
December 12, which offered a hand for peace negotiations, to
propose an immediate meeting of delegates of the belligerent
States at a neutral place.
The Imperial Government is also of the opinion that the
great work of preventing future wars can be begun only after
the end of the present struggle of the nations.
It will, when this moment shall have come, be ready with
pleasure to collaborate entirely with the United States in this
exalted task.
The answer of the Central Powers concludes with the usual dip
lomatic terms of politeness.
ARTILLERY DUELS ;
ON FRENCH FRONT'
ind more or less sporadic raids com
prised the activity cm the French front
In the lt twenty-four nours.
The leport fiom British heaihiuarters
latfs that a number of Germans suf
fered cjsultle rrom machine pun (Ire
follow tin approacii of a paity of
fifty towaul the Hiltleh lines near Les
In the same nelghbotlioud and
, """" ,,,r '7',V ,. ,r',u,"r
'advances by Urong Hrltish patrols on
I the pres front. .,,,, ,,. , ,
To-night s repoit fiom Hrltish head-
,,UJsr S-an, Mppr.e.,e.l nr
lines iast n gilt n the neighborhood
of Is ltoeufs. Klghtren of them were
u,.7.r". ',r .''." V'
sunereil lieavj vauaiiit.i --.m., ...
machine sun tire
Monday night we entered tienches
northeast of Armer.lleres nnd ilrova
oft an enemy worklne party, Tlie
enemy's positions east of I'loegsteert
also were raided. Casualties wer.' In
flicted upon the enemy and pr rnri
weie taken,
ln the nelghboihnod of I.e lloetifs
and Guedec.iuit we bombarded the
enemy trenches during the d.iv wlm
sntlvfai'toiy results.
At other places along tlie tr mt ar
tlllerv activity has continued
On the night of December 21-23 our
airplanes can led out succ.-saful bomb
Ing operations on places of military
Importance behind the enemy's ,lnes.
The French night report read
There was gieat activity by be tli ar
tilleries In the scciors of Helloy-en-Ssnterre
nnd Fouqiiesenurt. Kvery
where else tlie cannonade was Inter
mlttent. The Belgian report was as follows
The usual artillery activity pie
vailed. The German statement teads;
On the north bank of the Soninio
there was temporarily strong artil
lery flie. Hlsewheie on the western
and eastern fionts nothing Important
ocouned,
In mine sectors of the Ypies front,
on both sides of I.a Bassee Canal and
west of Lens, the activity of the ar
tillery Increased. Advances hy strong
British patrols were repeatedly re
pulsed. "SOMME FIGHT ENDED.'
Germans Say Their Positions Are
Mronaer Than on .Inly I,
London. Dec. 20. A lleiiler despatch
from Amsterdam to-day says:
"German newspapers are helm; In
structed to a.eit tliit the Soiumo bai
lie hn been finished They My the
German position Is now- stronger thuu
on July 1, and that behind tlie fnieuiiit
German lines are more man a t107.cu
very strong defence lines."
Hr.Kl.IN, by wireless, Dec 2tf, TI10
almost compb. cessation of righting on
the Somnni front diirlmc the last four
weeks has enabled the Germnns to com
plete n new system of trenches alona the,
whole front, says Ihe military critic of
the Oversea News Agency in an article
to-day.
He says the great battle that heran
there 011 July 1 may now be considered
to have, been terminated and asserts
that the fart of the Germans being en
abled to reconstruct their lino innms
that all the efforts and !ocrt of tho five
mouths offensive by ths r.ntnuto foices
were in vain, as, If It Is desired to re
lume the attack, It must be begun ull
over again as In 'the beginning.
LONDON CALLS IT
DODGING PEACE
GcnuniiyV Jleply Rereived in
ltiitisli Capital Too Late for
Kvtensivc Common!.
I.iiM'on. Dec. 2 (Wednesday) - tier
many's reply to President Wilson on the
peace question, as transmitted by the.
Atvoclated Press couespondent at Berlin
In New York and tetransinllted here, did
not teach London until loo lain for com
ment or even for insertion In the earlltt
mornlns edition.! of the London papers.
It l pi luted with great piomlnence. how
ever, in the e. Olid e ditions.
The only present Indication of lis ie
(.(ption l.eie s fir.nlshed by the JJoI'jf
Hull' headline : "German Peace IMdge"
and nit lutioductory note. In which the
.1ml says'
"If President Wilson meant, a recent
American comment contends, that his
note should force Germany to state her
term. Germany has countered with this
pioposal so that she tan riado an ex
plicit unwer."
It Is a coincided'' that Clu-iit IlrHalns
Invltutlou to the Dominion l'uinlers to
attend a war conference not later than
1'i'biuurv to consider questions affect
ing the prosecution of the war forms
the main feature of the mornllm' papers.
As It Is nppartut that no Important de
cision atTectlns the conditions under
which the war can be terminated by
the Allies Is likely to be taken until the
lonferrnce. It may be assumed, apait
from any other consideration., that Ger
many's suggestion for an Immediate ex
change of views will not piobably ma
terialize. The Dttllii 1 flrnrupli commenting on
the lniperi.il conference says:
"Tlie Allies are very far from com
mitting tlie mistake of tint considering
among themselves the conditions nf
peace for which they piopose to obtain
the only effectual guarantee. These
deliberations are not of a kind to lie
concluded in haste. We have not willed
to have piemntui" peace and we do
not mean to have It. Our enemies have
willed Midi a peace mid tiro making
every possible effort to fotee one us tln
only alternative to final defeat, They
have failed lo disarm au of their In
tended victims by military means. Cer
talnly they will not do so by the exer
else of diplomacy."
17 TO 70 KILLED BY A
TORNADO IN ARKANSAS
Storm Sweeps Path Four Miles
Wide in South Central
Portion of State.
Lirn.i: Hock. Ark.. Dec. 26. Fiom
seventeen to seventy persons weie killed
in a
tornado that "stiucl; south central'
Arkansas this afternoon, according to le
potl tecelved here to-night. Four are
known to be dead at F.ngland. seventeen
nre reported killed at Keo, and several
nie reported killed nt the State convict
fai 111 at Tucker.
All wires Into the storm area aie
down, The tornado I said to have swept
a path about four mile wide, and It M
tenoned that several files broke out 111
thn wreckage, F.very physician In the
little town of I'liKlaud has gonu to the
country to cue for the Injured.
Considerable alarm Is felt over the
rlluatloii at thn State convict farm nt
Tucker, where there Is said to have been
a heavy death list, There are about 323
prisoners nt the farm, Cnpt, J, li. llur
kett, warden of the State penitentiary,
tu-ulght took 1 ecnfoi cements fur the
guard nt Tucker.
Passengers unlvlng to-night on a
tinln that panned through the storm ares,
described the scenes of destiuctlon, but
had no authentic Information on tlie
number killed and injured,
"Wo saw furniture In tree tops," snld
one passenger. "Wlies were blown down,
tires uprooted or snapped off, and tlie
around was coveted with wirckage,
"At Kew wo heard n report that a
prgio settlement near there had been
wiped out and that seventeen negroes
were killed."
I'
German Officials Indicate
Conditions May Be Con
fided in Secret.
PRESIDENT'S IDEALS
ARE WAVED ASIDE
Prevention of Wars Held
Impracticable Until
Present Is Ended.
EXECUTIVE SAID
TO BE SHOCKED
Publication, of Answer Be
fore Receipt by U. S.
Also Irritates.
Washington, Dec. 2C. Germany's
reply to President Wllson'u proposal to
tlie belligerents of Kuropo come a a
shock to the Administration. It folia
to meet the President's suggestion that
the belligerents tatc tho nlma (or
which they nre righting- nnd It punc
tures the ncndemln dnmntii nf th
American notes by putting tho proven-
tlon of future wars on & practical basis.
Summed up the German noto la re
garded hero ns indorsing tho Presi
dent's suggestions, but declining" to
tnkc seriously his Idealistic plans. Ger
many In effect says "wo must end the) ,
present struggle before building caatlea ,
in thu air." And the featuro of tho
German plan Is to summon a confer
ence of representatives of ull tho bel
ligerents tu discuss pcaco proposals.
Count von llemstorff, the German
Ambassador. Informed Titn Sl'M on De
cember 12 that the crux of the German
pence proposal was to call a conference
at Tlie Hague or nt some other neutral
place about the middle of January and'
bring about an exrhnuge of views aa to
possible terms of peace.
Hrrustorir l Conflriurd.
The Herman ofllclal reply to-day I
along preilsely this line. The reason
which prompts Germany to decline to
state teims openly is the reason which
fount von llriii'iorrf Iihh emphasised.
It Is that (lei many feels It is Impossible,
for tlie win ring nations to enter Into
negotiations publicly for the reason that
hontllc pulil.c opinion tu virtually all the
toiiiitrles would make the.c negotiations
Impossible, The solution, In the eyes of
tlie German Ambassador ami the Derlln
Foreign Ollke, lies in a conference ln
whlih terms can bn discussed secretly.
Hut the same otllclals who have so ac
curately forecast Germany's nctlon with
te.pect to the conference have stated
that the German Government would be
willing to give President Wilson an out
line nf Germany's terms in confidence.
Tlierefoie the. fact that the German re
ply does not specifically mention terms
Is not iiecessailly KKnrded as constitut
ing an iifurmoiiutablo ohtacle.
The German reply has;, according to
diplomats line, one feature which rec
ommends it especially to trained and
practical diplomatists. It Indicates at
least frankness on Germany's part. Oth-eiwl.-e,
It Is aul. Germany would have
thrqwii bouquets to I'lesideiit Wilson's
ill earns uf world peace and disarma
ment. Hut Instead lleilin practically
tells hlm polltily that chimeric Ideas
must be relegated to second place anil
that the termination of the war and not
other matters l the icil point nt Issue.
Strangely enough, the feiling In En
tente circles here f so Muensed over the
Pieslilelit's ni'tei to the waning Powers
that they are pleased nt the rebuff which
come even fioni their enemy, Germany,
They ay that at last somethlns has
been found on which nil nation alike,
agiee, and that i" that I'lesideiit Wil
son's Idea me not of practical value at
the preent stage of the win Id war.
President Wilson wan Infoinied of the
tenor of tin German icpl. n soon as It
had been received by wlieles. He is
understood lo have been chacrlned and
disappointed. Tim opinion heie Is that
tlie I'lesideiit hoped that hi league to
ei.forro peace idea and ills future hope
to eliminate all war would bo taken
seriously in fotelsn chancellerle.
'same (lllirl.ln llilileiil.
The nrltlMt, Hursimi md French npln.
Ion ns communicated to tills Govern
ment have all haiped on the Impracti
cability of President Wilson's plans, but
have given the liupi essloti that thcfilans
lhem"elve wie tainted wltll piu-Gci-iiijii
peaie, virtual y in support ofjthe
German peace pleas. Now conic Ger
man) wltli tint eame criticism of the
Wilson notes
OIllclaH point oil! that the President
must now aniee to irgatd his note purely
an appendix to the Herman pence pro-
posjls or consider the tiuiuiaii reply
iiou-rcspnm-lvc .mil ,1 rejection. To cen
fnim tn the Herman Idea ru contained In
the noto of to-day lie tmist regard hta
note to the Powers ns suggesting a
"pence roufeience tu end the war." This
I (lterlsrly vvli.it Germany In her note to
her enemies ptopoed.
The lei 111.111 icjily serves only to em
phasize the real kiiiou In which the
I'nlteil State Government has been
placed hefoie the ryes of the world and
In tugs proniliientlv to the fore thn Im
mediate (hiugei' of the President ac
know ledclm; tho lalliuo of his efforts by
InfoimliiK Gel many that the tcply Is un-
lisponsive.
At lh Slate. Department there was
also disappointment over the German
note. This disappointment langcd front
fear that the pjaco efforts of thn united
States were terminated to chagrin over
the fart that Htrniiiuy had made, the
note publlu before communicating Its
contents officially to Washington,
It Is said that officials hero regarded
this its a breach of diplomatic) etiquette.
President Wilson might havo desired not
tn havo thn nole published at present, tt
Is snld: and, besides, diplomatic eouitrsv
demands that notes tm withheld from
the general public) until the (lovernment
to which they are addressed has had
time to consider them.
It Is pointed out that the President s
