I f < , '
WEATHER. | CfH k ^ l^jf "From Press to Home
Rain anil warmer tonight. Tomor- I I a a / O a ^k ^k k / ^ ^ k A It J ??^????
Mml J IT w% ^TrT^yw i t^QKT (m) within the Hour"
Temperature twenty-four hours ^B ^B | H H H H H H H H H ^VBM^ H H .
p.m.?r Highest. at 4 ^ W I J | W WJ ' W W / ^ I Tl 3
yesterday: lowest. 32, at 9 a.m. today. + H B^B JB H ^B H? a .
, - ? I fl J ^ / SworB Net Clrrilatloa. Month of November.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 15. , S -J? ^ ,#I6' D"l,y A?er??*. T?.55Tl Sunday. BkESS.
No. 29,545. WASHINGTON, I). C., WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. ? ONE CENT.
NOPE TO AVOID
EXTRA SESSION
Administration and Statesmen
^ on Capitol Hill Do Not Want
y "Congress on Our Hands."
i
DEPENDS PARTLY ON WAR
Some of the statesmen on Capitol
Hill, familiar with the threatened legislative
log-jam in Congress which will J
soon begin to form, find balancing thej
possibilities of peace in Kurope loom-j
ing into view this spring or summer. ,
ara to wonder how an extra j
session of Congress may be avoided after j
March 4. The expression how it may
be avoided is used advisedly, since nobody
in either political party, and least
of all the executive administration, desires
"Congress on our hands'* next
summer and fall.
Whether an extra session will become
necessary or not is believed to j
depend largely upon the progress of J
peace negotiations. In the face of j
seemingly untoward prospects at presX
ent. the belief at heart is entertained
by most of the leading men in Congress
that President Wilson's initiative has
"started something" which will result
in good.
Once peace is in sight or the prospect
of it discernible in the offing, it
is argued that domestic questions of
profound gravity will present themselves
at home: questions of revenue,
of imports, of industrial activity and
consequent disturbances in the money
market, of the movement in and out of
gold, of internal taxation for revenue
and all that kind of thing.
Know How to Compromise.
Moreover, there are the pending
features of the administration's legislative
program still in embryo, with the
days slipping by and necessary legislation
pressing for action. This, however.
is regarded as a secondary consideration
in the possibilities of an
extra session. Congress knows how
to "compromise" in such eases, and
if the war is to go on abroad, there
would be every . incentive to "sidestepping"
some of the issues.
The railway legislation, it is said,
will be the most difficult to handle by
evasion or compromise. The President
is on record as insisting upon
its importance. The Senate committee I
having charge of it (the House com- ;
mmcc, ill ine ueur);i<icsquc vtri imrurni i
of Chairman Adamson of the House
?-ommittee, having "passed the buck" to
the upper body) will begin hearings
* next Tuesday. Everybody knows what
happens when a great question enters
upon the hearing stag#*.
The opposition of the labor unions
to certain features of railway legislation
which the President deems es
sential, adds difficulties to the task of
< ingress. They are prepared to move
on the national legislators with the
full strength of their organizations and
to fight the bills at every stage..
Can Overcome Deficit.
However, If nothing but railway legislation
stood in the way of avoiding !
an extra session it is thought that
some expeaient could be devised to
compromise or stave off the issue until
the next regular session, the opposition
to an extra session being so widespread.
The question of deficit in the
national revenues is not so acute as
to require calling the new Congress,
since with the use of Panama bonds
and possibly some slight additional
internal taxation the 1917 deficit can
be met. and the 1918 shortage left for j
the next Congress.
The democrats would like to clean '
up as much of the President's program
a* possible at this session, as it is j
realized that the present safe working |
majority in the House is an asset i
which will be sadly missed in the next j
Congress. As repeatedly stated in The |
Star, the complexion of the next House |
is still uncertain. Neither side knows j
whether it will organize the House or i
not, and even when organized, the |
closeness of the majority and the presence
of such a large independent vote
renders uncertain party action upon I
any legislation.
It is a foregone conclusion that the
next House cannot be handled with the j
facility manifested by the executive in
dealing with this Congress, and party ,
lines w ill be difficult to maintain.
CUTTERS FAIL TO FIND
* STEAMER MARYLAND
Have Cruised Several Hours Around
" ?" TV 1 0 . A..J.
spot w nenc e v esbti ociii. uui
Distress Call.
NANTUCKET. Mass.. December 27.?
The steamer Maryland, which reported
by wireless on Christinas night that she
was sinkir.fr, had not been found today.
The coast guard cutters Acushnet and
dresham. which had proceeded from
Woods Hole and Boston, respectively,
to the position, approximately 200 miles
southeast of this Island, where the
Maryland sounded her distress calls.
?ent word this morning that they had
found no trace of the steamer.
The cutters hud cruised in those waters
for several hours after it became
known that the vessc-1'3 wireless had
been put our of commission, evidently
I y a flood of water which swept into
the engine room.
ADVANCE ON THE TIGRIS.
British Also Destroy Gassabs Fort,
20 Miles Southeast of Kut.
LONDON, December 27.?An official
statement or. the Mesopotamian campaign
was issued last night, reading:
"On the 22d British uetar-hments advanced
to the right bank of the Tigris.
Their position subsequently had been
consolidated and extended south and
east of Kut-Ei-Amara.
"The enemy's trenches on the right
hank of the Tign>, southwest of Kut,
nave oeen systematically bombarded.
??ur cavalry, by a night march, reached
and destroyed Gassabs fort, twenty
miles southeast of Kut. which had long
been a base of operations of the hostile
Arabs. Sixty tons of grain were destroyed,
cattle were captured and a
number of houtile Arab encampments
were burued."
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Meets.
PITTSBURGH. December 27.?More
/ l:ian 1,000 college men from ail parts
of the couptry were here today for the
biennial national convention of the
Sigma Alpha Kpsilon Fraternity. Business
sessions in charge of President
1 Don R. Almy of New York were held
\ in the headquarters hotel, and tonight
the new ritual will be exemplified for
the first time. The convention will not
adjourn until Frjday night.
FAAM LOAN BANK
LOCATIONS MED
J
Board Announces the Twelve
Federal Districts With Their
Headquarters.
D. C. IN BALTIMORE SECTION
i
Springfield, Mass.; Baltimore. Md.;
Columbia. S. C.; Louisville, Ivy.; New
'Orleans, La.; St. Louis, Mo.; St. Paul,
Minn.; Omaha, Nob.; Wichita, Kan.; j
Houston, Tex.; Berkeley, Cal.. and Spokane.
Wash., have been chosen as locations
for twelve federal farm loan
banks.
The twelve districts into which the
country is divided were announced by
the farm loan board today as follows:
District No. 1?Maine, New Hampshire,
Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode J
Island, Connecticut, New York and New I
1 Jersey.
District No. 2?Pennsylvania, Dela- J
i ware, Maryland. Virginia. West Virginia
and the District of Columbia.
District No. 3?North Carolina. South
Carolina, Georgia and Florida.
District No. 4?Ohio, Indiana, Ken!
tucky and Tennessee.
District No. 5?Alabama, Mississippi
' and Louisiana.
District No. 6?Illinois, Missouri and
Arkansas.
District No. 7?Michigan, Wisconsin,
Minnesota and North Dakota.
District No. 8?Iowa. Nebraska. South
Dakota and Wyoming.
District No. y?Oklahoma, Kansas.
Colorado and New Mexico.
District No. 10?Texas.
District No. 11?California, Nevada.
Utah and ArizonaDistrict
No. 12?Washington, Oregon.
Montana and Idaho.
Reasons for the Selections.
"In determining the federal land bank
districts and in designating the cities
within such districts where federal land
banks shall be located." the official announcement
says, "the federal farm
loan board has given careful consideration^o
the farm loan needs of the country.
The board held public hearings in
nearly every state in the Union, and in
this manner collected information of
great value in determining its decision.
"Every resonable opportunity has
been afforded applicant cities to furnish
evidence to support their claim
as locations of federal land banks. More
than seventy-five cities applied to be
designated as the headquarters of a
bank and were heard through representative
committees and individuals."
The banks will be established as soon
as practicable. Under the law each bank
will have a capital of $750,000. Appliea
tlons for loans have been pouring into
the board in great volume recently, and
it is estimated that a sum more than!
twenty times in excess of the combined i
capital stock could be used in making
loans.
Almost the first work of the banks,
after approving and issuing loans, will
be the Issuance of farm loan bonds, a new
form of security in this country. The j
bonds will be issued in denominations as
small as $25, it is expected, and will
bear interest at a rate of 1 per cent less
than the interest rate charged farmers
on their loans.
Interest Bate Not Determined.
What this interest rate will be has not
definitely been determined. It is limited
by law to a maximum of 6 per cent. The
expectation is that it will not exceed 5*4
per cent at first and subsequently may j
be lowered.
Loans on farm land are limited by the i
law to 50 per cent of the value of the J
land, and may be payab: in from five to 'j
forty years. As fast as loans are made I
bonds will be issued to cover tfhem, so
that at no time, under the present plan,
will a bank's entire capital be tied up in
loans to the detriment of other appll[
cants.
| One of the chief tasks now confronti
ing the board is to find experienced em!
ployes for the new banks. More than
' 6.000 applications for positions have
' been received. The appointments will
be exempt from civil service regulations.
but the board intends to assemble
a corps of men experienced in
banking.
i The head of each bank will be des[
ignated as the registrar. They probfably
will be only residents of the districts
involved, and preferably attorneys.
Temporary Organization Plans.
| The banks will be organized tempn|
rarily by the appointment, by the I
i board, of five directors for each bank, i
I who shall be residents of the district j
| in which the bank is located. Th$ di|
rectors will select from iimon^ their
! number the bank's officers. The capital |
[stock of each bank will be open to
I public subscription for thirty days. If.
jit is not entirely subscribed at the end i
of that time the government is author- ;
| ized under the law to take the un- \
j subscribed amount.
Through a process of having borrow
J ers subscribe in small amounts to the!
j apita! stock it is 'expected that the!
; hanks not long after beginning opera- j
i tions will be virtually co-operative in- j
stitutions. Tlie permanent organization j
I of the hanks provides for nine di-;
! rectors, six of whom shall be selected .
by associations of farmer borrowers,
; the other three being appointed by the 1
federal board. The terms of thes-e di- !
; rectors will be three years, and they .
will elect officers from among their;
number.
U. S. REGISTRY SAVES SHIP.
Co Avamontft AllmiTa/i fn DvA?A?i]
i uatiatuvuvu uuvn^u IU X X UV/CCU Uy ,
German Submarine Commander.
' HAVRK, December 27.?("apt. J'later j
| of the American steamer Sacramento, I
1 who arrived here from Buenos Aires I
[with a cargo of wheat, reports that he |
was stopped in the English channel by
'a German submarine. The commander |
of the submarine ordered him on board
with his papers, and after examining
. them said:
"You are carrying wheat, which we
consider contraband of war, to France.
It is lucky for you that your ship is
American, otherwise we should have
: torpedoed you with great pleasure.
I You can proceed. Good luck to you."
The only steamer of the name of Sac!
ramento listed in available martime
: records is reported by the New York
' Maritime Register to have been recent\
ly transferred from American to Brit;
ish ownership. She was blacklisted by
! the British admiralty in April, 1916, on
i charges of aiding German ships in the
Pacific, but was removed from the
| blacklist last October.
Norwegian Ship Destroyed.
1I.ONDON, December 27.?i.loyde' report*
the sinking of the Norwegian
steamship Sno, l.Sfl to^ gross.
( - . ' _
U. S. PAPER MILL
IS RECOMMENDED
Committee on Print Paper
Specifications for the Government
Urges Project.
MATERIAL IS PLENTIFUL
The establishment of a government
n:inor mill io ctrnnch
the report of tlie committee on print
paper specifications for the government
which has just been made to the joint
committee on printing of Congress.
The report of t lie committee says:
"The difficulties which have been encountered,
not only by the government
printing office, but by other federal departments,
in securing bids at reasonable
prices and of obtaining prompt
delivery on accepted bids of paper complying
with specifications, lead the
specifications committee to give serious
consideration to the establishment of
a government pulp and paper mill, and
it recommends that the joint committee
on printing give immediate considers- j
tion to the establishment of a government-owned
plant. The government .
uses approximately 30,000,000 pounds i
of print paper per anuum, which is a [
sufficient quantity to absorb the output |
of a fifty-ton mill.
Sites and Material.
"The numerous government reserva- j
tions afford sites having ample water j
power for the operation of a mill, and j
extensive forests and mineral deposits |
upon which to draw for raw materials.
"Furthermore, such a mill will afford
facilities for the commercial demonstration
of the value of wastes of all
kinds for papermaking, on which materials
the government has spent con- I
siderable sums annually, and with '
which demonstration on a commercial J
scale is possible. Again, a govern- j
ment plant will furnish unlir-ited op- ,
portunities for studies in the commer- j
cial utilization and disposal of paper
mill wastes. These wastes embrace at J
least half of the raw materials used in '
making paper, and are a menace to the .
public health as well as a detriment to
industrial development."
The committee, in drafting its specifi- ,
cations for paper for th?- government,
has included specifications for paper to
be made from corn or cotton stalks.
Max or cereal straws, wild or cultivated
grasses. The object of this is to en - '
courage the commercial utilization of
these materials, and liberal provision J
is made for future development of proc- ,
eses and the purchase of a definite u
quantity of acceptable paper.
Protection for Bidders.
Special provision has been made for !
the government or other parties to pa- ;
per contracts.to annul the contracts for j
paper when the market price varies I
more than 20 per cent above or below j
the accepted proposal price, after the j
expiration of three months from notice, j
in connection with the report of the !
committee on a government paper mill, j
it was pointed out today that the House i
committee on printing, just before the
adjournment was taken for the Christ- j
mas recess, reported favorably a bill '
providing for the construction and op- I
eration of a government paper mill and '
that bill is now on the calendar. It pro- j
poses to expend $1,000,000 for a paper |
mill.
The committee on specifications con- 1
sists of E. P. Veitch, bureau of chem-j
istry; Henry T. Brian, deputy public |
printer; T. Frank Morgan, foreman of
printing, government printing office; F. j
C. Clark, bureau of standards; George
H. Carter, clerk, joint committee on j
printing, and H. B. Dyas, inspector of '
paper, joint committee on printing.
MAKING NEW HEADWAY j
IN ADVANCE ON BRAILS
Von Mackensen Continues to Progress
Against Russians and
Rumanians.
In the Rumanian war area the latest
reports show Field Marshal von Macken- j
sen making new headway in his advance I
toward Braila, the great Rumanian grain
and oil storehouse on the lower Danube, j
The taking of Filipechti placed von
Mackensen's forces little more than thirty *
miles from this objective. On the other \
v* ?.?*- ?/niiuuc, iiicaiiwnnc, mc n:u- |
tonic Dobrudja army, apparently corn- I
prising chiefly Bulgarian troops, is ha^n- j
mering-away at the bridgehead of Match- j
in, almost directly opposite Braila.
The clearing of the remaining Russians j
from Dobrudja thus seems a possibility, i
not only by the direct attack, but through j
tiie advance in Wallachia, which, if it !
succeeded in reaching Braila. would be |
able to take the Matchin position under
artillery fire in flank and rear from
across the Danube.
Repulse for Allies.
By the Associated Press.
BERLIN. December 27, by wireless to
Sayville.?Russo-Rumanian forces in
Dobrudja have been repulsed after a
violent battle on the whole front from
Lake Babadagh to Tuerkoatza, Maya an
official statement issued at the Bulgarian J
army headquarters.
The Russians have been driven from
several positions in northeastern Wallachia,
says last night's army headquarters
statement.
HEEDS SPANISH KING'S PLEA.
German Government Agrees to Ee|
patriate Large Number of Belgians.
LONDON. December 27.?King: AI|
fonso of Spain lias persuaded the Ger;
man government to repatriate a large
: number of Belgian workmen who were
j deported into Germany, according to a
Madrid dispatch to the Kadio agency.
The dispatch says that the Spanish
ambassador at Berlin has telegraphed
his home government to this effect
and has been instructed to continue his
.efforts, so as to obtain the liberation
of the greatest number of Belgians
possible.
Col. Harts to Lecture at White House
At the invitation of the President
Col. W. W. Harts, in charge of public
buildings and grounds, will deliver an
illustrated lecture at the White House
tonight on the works in progress for1
the Improvement of the National Cap- {
ital. r . 1
J
SOMMEBAHLE ENDED,
ACCORDING TO GERMANS
Cessation of Fighting Has Permitted
Construction of New Lines.
Official Reports.
By the Associated Press.
BERLIN. December 27, by wireless to
Sayville.?The almost complete cessation
of the fighting on the Somme front during
the past four weeks has enabled the
Germans to complete a new system of
trenches along the whole front, says the
military critic of the Overseas News
Agency. He declares the great battle
that began there on .July 1 may now be
considered to have been terminated and
declares that the fact of the Germans
being enabled to reconstruct their line
means that all the efforts and losses of
the live months' offensive by the entente
forces were in vain, as if it is desired to
resume the attack it must be begun all
over again as in the beginning.
Trenches Are Protected.
As to the new defenses, the writer says
they have been perfected to such a degree
th.it even the foremost trenches are now
protected by barbed wire, with the troops
holding them occupying deep dugouts
and having adequately protected communication
trenches. Moreover, he asserts,
the new defensive lines are stronger than
those of July 1, "as behind the firs* line
trenches, which were constructed under
hostile artillery fire, are more than a dozen
of the strongest sort of defensive lines
which have been built absolutely without
interference and with great care."
As a further sign of the exhaustion
of the offensive the writer notes a letup
in the air activity by the entente,
although German squadrons had been
carrying out raids toward the west.
Artillery Active at Verdun.
PARIS, December 27, 2:10 p.m.?"The
night was calm, except on the front
between Vaeherauville and Yaux (Verdun
sector), where the artillery was
very active," says today's announcement
from the war office.
"Lieut. Herteaux on December 24
brought down his fourteenth airplane,
between Chaulnes and Hyencourt-Le
Grand (south of the Somir.e)."
The official report from British headquarters
in France last night reads:
"Some fifty Germans approached our
lines Monday night in the neighborhood
of Lesboeufs. Eighteen of them
were taken prisoner; the remainder
suffered heavy casualties from our
machine gun fire.
Enemy Trenches Raided.
"Monday night we entered trenches
northeast of Armentieres and drove off
an enemy working party. The enemy's
positions east of Ploegsteert were also
raided; casualties were inflicted upon
the enemy and prisoners were secured.
"In the neighborhood of Lesboeufs
and Gueudecourt we bombarded the
enemy trenches during the day, with
satisfactory results.
"At other places along the front artillery
activity has continued.
"On the night of I?ecember 24-25 our
airplanes carried out successful bombing
operations on places of military
importance behind the enemy's line."
IRISH QUESTIONS DISCUSSED.
Informal Consultations Said to Be
Proceeding in England.
LONDON', December 27.?Informal
discussions and consultations are proceeding
for settlement of the Irish
questions, says the Manchester Guardian.
New proposals which are being
(considered provide for something in the
nature of equal representation for
! unionists and nationalists In an Irish
! parliament.
] Home rule for all of Ireland is the
j basis of the suggestions, which do not
l contemplate the exclusion of Ulster.
Italians Advance 300 Meters.
ROME, December 2V.?"There have
j been desultory actions along the whole
front, interfered with somewhat by
! bad weather," says yesterday's war office
statement.
"On the Carso south of Montefait we
j straightened our lines by a surprise adI
vance to a depth of 300 meters. In one
of the craterlike hollows in the area
occupied by us we found 150 cases of
artillery ammunition which had been
abandoned by the enemy."
Curbs Sale of German Ship Shares.
AMSTERDAM. December 27.?The
Frankfurter Zeitung reports that the
bundesrath has forbidden the sale
abroad of German shipping shares, the
object bel??g to prevent an undesirable
foreign in.Aence in German shipping.
...... . _ _ . A
AIDES PREPARING
REPLY TO TEUTONS
Unlikely to State Specific
Terms, Because of Military
Situation.
i
j
1 By thf A ??<?< iaw*?l I'fHx.
LONDON, December 27, 3:20 p.m.?
Communications continue to pass between
the capitals of the entente allied
nations regarding the reply to be marie
to the peace proposals of the central
powers and their allies.
The answer has been prepared in
Paris and Is now the subject of discussion
between the various ministers.
To Answer Teutons First.
j It is unlikely that any steps will be
taken by Great Britain and the other
countries of the entente with regard to
President "Wilson's note and its Swiss
counterpart until the entente allies
have dealt with the German proposals.
It is understood here that the reply
does not give specific terms, but refers
generally to the objects of the allies.
Those participating in the discussion
i speak of the difficulty of expressing the
I general purposes In concrete form so
jthat the reply may be definitely responsive
and at the same time convey to
i neutral countries an adequate idea of
1 the aims and purposes for which the
' entente allies are contending.
!
Await Military Success.
j The reason for not stating the specific
' terms is said here to be that the terms
J of the allied nations largely cLepend
i upon the extent of the military "?tory
j which they confidently expect, and that
I any statement of terms now would be
j upon the existing military and terriI
torial situation which the German im}
perial chancellor, Dr. von Bethmann
; Hollweg, claimed was based 011 a Ger|
man victory. Therefore, it is held Gerj
many is in a position to state her
j terms, whereas the entente terms bei
come definite when military .successes
! have been achieved. /
'.j;
STORM IMPEDES TRAFFIC.
Railroads and Wire Service in Lower
Michigan Hampered.
DETROIT, Mich., December 27.?
I Railroad and interurban traffic and
j wire communication throughout lower
j Michigan were affected by the storm
! last night and the thaw this morning,
i Interurban cars leaving Detroit had
i difficulty getting through the outskirts
of the city. Many streets were flooded.
Eocal telegraph offices reported much
i wire trouble. Wire conditions were
| said to be bad in nearly every section
of the peninsula, but the worst conditions
prevailed in the Jackson district.
! There were many street car tie-ups
j in Detroit this forenoon. Dense fog,
1 slippery tracks, flooded streets, stalled
I automobiles and heavy traffic made
transportation unusually difficult.
JAPANESE DIET OPENS.
Emperor, in Speech. Discusses the
European War.
TOKIO. December 27.?The diet was
! opened today by the emperor, who. in his
address from the throne, expressed 111s
gratification that the relations between
j the empire and the treaty powers were
i growing closer. He declared that the alj
liance with Great Britain and the coni
vention with France were becoming:
J stronger and called attention also to the
i new convention with Russia, which he
i termed a matter for congratulation,
i The emperor explained that he had orI
dered the ministers to draft bills necesj
sary for the development of the country
! "keeping in mind the world situation"
j and askecl the diet to co-operate in passing
these measures. The house was
j then adjourned to January 21.
Resigns From Democratic Committee
FAIRMONT, W. Va., December 27.?
Clarence W. Watson, former United
States senator, today announced his resignation
from the democratic national
committee. Pressure of business was
given as the cause. Mr. Watson having
arranged to spend a considerable part of
the coming year in Russia.
G. H. Usher Dies in Atlanta.
ATLANTA. Ga? December 27.?G. H.
Usher, general superintendent of the
southern division of the Postal Telegraph Cable
Company, has died at his home
here. Mr. Usher, who was fifty-eight
years old, had been in failing health for
some time. He Is survived by his wife
and mother. He camb here nine years
ago from New York city. .1
IlamItMled
by rules committee
; Chairman Henry Says No Attention
Will Be Paid Boston
Financier.
I
j "I have not invited Thomas W. Law;
son of Fioston to appear before the rules
! eornmittee and have had no communiea- !
tion with him whatsoever and do not in- 1
i tend to. He has not asked me for aj
hearing and I haven't paid anv attention i
to him. I do not understand where the j
report I had formally invited him to ap- J
; pear before the rules committee has
jorginated."
Report Widely Circulated.
j Thus Chairman Henry <>f the rules
, committee of the House disposed today of
! the widely published statement that Mr.
Lawson of Boston had been invited to
appear before the rules committee and
explain >?is charges that there is a great
big leak in the administration somewhere,
froni which stock market tips emanate.
The Dawson statement was published In j
several newspapers following the intro- '
duction by Representative Wood of In- '
diana of a resolution asking whether!
persons connected with the administration !
had profited by the falling off of stocks j
: in Wall street as the result of the i'resi- I
: dent's peace .message.
Not to Press Resolution.
Congressional leaders are not going to
order any investigation of Thomas Lavi
son's charges or Representative Wood's
inquiries unless the administration asks i
it. This was made certain today after a
; canvass of the men in control in Congress.
At the same time the republicans smile
: ana say me w oou r?suiunoii nas uone ;
i its work of publicity in a political way
land that unless something definite can he
produced they will not urge its adoption. \
TWELVE KNOWN DEAD
IN ARKANSASTORNADO
More Than Thirty Persons Injured.
Property Loss Placed
at $3.0C-D.G30.
!
J J{y tin* .\>>?M'iate?l 1
' LITTLE ROCK. Ark . December 27.?
i Reports receiveil h? r?* up t?> noon toaay j
1 from the storm areas gathered by '
t roundabout communication indicated:
'that twelve persons were killed and,
| more than thirty injured in the tornado ;
that swept central Arkansas late yester- 1
4 day.
Wires are down in all directions, and
it is only where couriers have reached
telephone stations that accurate in for- I
mation of the extent of the damage:
can be obtained.
A heavy downpour of rain and a high;
wind accompanied the storm, and rail-!
j roads are facing washouts, high water, j
j torn-up telegraph and telephone lines. J
5 making operations perilous. No trains
i have arrived in this city today from
' Pine Bluff, just south of the stricken
i area.
| For a hundred miles from Grantcoun-j
j ty, over portions of Pulaski. Lonoke. (
Jefferson and Prairie counties, the tor-;
i nado took toll of lives and stock. Estij
mates of the property damage today
j were placed near $3,000,000.
I Apprehnsion regarding the state!
I convict farm and Tucker, southeast of
; here, where 325 state prisoners were I
j stationed, was allayed by advices re- j
, , nib ??v? v/nc ?? II1JUXCU I
! there.
j Passengers arriving . here today }
j brought further reports of the wiping !
j out of a negro settlement at Keo. bej
tween here and Tucker, with a loss of
j seventeen lives. Accurate information
i on the situation there, however, is
I lacking.
! The tornado struck the ground a few
j miles north of Pine Bluff, and, cutting
I a path four miles wide, assumed a i
J northeasterly course and finally wore j
out itself in the vicinity of Puvall Bluff
j and Pes Arc. Many homes were set on
| fire by the lightning which attended
the storm.
Sleet Storm Hits Wire Service.
NEW YORK. December 27.?A sleet
storm which loaded telegraph and tele- 1
phone wires with ice seriously Inter- J
fered today with communication in this i
state and to a considerable extent i
throughout the east. Some trouble was ,
experienced as far -west as Chicago, but
conditions were reported here as im- (
proving In that direction. The weather <
bureau was unable to locate the scope 1
and characteristics of the storm fully, ?
owing to difficulty in gathering in- J
formation by wire. New York streets ?
were coated wtti ice ^ind traffic was ]
jlgbdly hamperetb '
MAGAZINE OWNERS I
TO MAKE BIG FIGHT
Publishers Seek to Defeat (
"Rider" on Postal Appropriation
Bill.
SEE AN ATTEMPT TO "GAG" I
Magazine publishers over the ? ountry J
are preparing to make a gigantic pro- ;>
test against the attempt to "gag" Con- ?
gress into accepting a ri<ier on the pos- r
tal appropriation bill to be introduced ?
next week, by which the post office j
rates on magazines would be raised to 1
an extent which would stop publication j <1
of many of them. Thousands of letters 11
and telegrams have been received by j r
the rules committee, most of them from | I
religious publications, claiming that s
the increase will be fatal to the magazine
business and asking for a hearing. <
At the same time, leaders of the House : s
today predicted that the proposed in- 1
crease will not become a law. c
The attempted increase was favorably r
commented on by Postmaster General <
Burleson, but House leaders have re- 1
cently heard that Mr. Burleson has indicated
his acceptance of the views of
the publishers of the countrjs Furthermore,
the members of the rules
committee have assumed the position
that the publishers have a good case
atid are reluctant to bring in any "gag"
rule which will seriously undermine
the magazine and religious newspaper
business.
Bill to Be Reported Next Week.
The post office bill will be reported
next week. It will contain a "rider"
increasing the second-class rates by
zones, as shown below. It will also
contain a provision for 1-cent letter
postage in the case of letters to be delivered
within the community where
mailed. The latter provision has considerable
chance of success. There is
a stormy road ahead of the other one.
It can be knocked out on a point of order,
and to protect it a special rule will
have to be brought in. Against this pos
sible rule tlie publishers are massing, and j
it was learned today a hearing will be *
granted them if they desire it. As m1- ! r
ready indicated, the members of the rules i p
committee have read much of the evi- !
deuce on the side of the publishers and j
have reached the conclusion it would I *
be a backward step to increase the r
rates. I s
s
Post Office Committee Divided. \ s
The post office committee is divided on ^
the .subject, too. A minority report may j
be presented to the House, and hostile
feeling is rising all over Congress. If j
by chance a special rule slips througfi to ,
the House, there will be a filibuster t
against the rider and a long drawn fight *
against the increase. . . (
The proposed increases are: j r
One cent a pound for the first, second ' ^
and third zones (under 300 miles); 2 1
cents a pound for the fourth zone (300 ' i
to 000 miles); 3 cents per pound for the ! r
fifth zone (000 to 1.000 miles); 4 cents! 1
per pound for the sixth zone (1.000 to \ i
1.400 miles); 5 cents per pound for the \
seventh zone (1.400 to 1.800 miles); G ? t
cents per pound for all over 1.800 miles, j <
. |f
CALLS REV. MR. PRETTYMAN. j r
Roanoke Church Wants Senate Chap- *
lain for Its Pastor.
ROANOKE, Va.. December 27.?Mem- j
bers of the congregation of Greene I
Memorial Methodist Church here say j *
that Rev. J. Forrest Prettyman, chap- i *
lain of the United States Senate, has ? 1
been asked to accept the pastorate of Is
their church as the successor of Rev. j 1
Dr. I". G. Foote. who has resigned to I j,
accept a call from New Orleans. t
Rev. J. Forrest Prettyman. who is t
pastor of the Mount Pleasant Methodist i
Episcopal Church South. 1413 Park t
road northwest, organized in 1911, and c
who was appointed chaplain of the [
Senate in March, 1913, this afternoon c
said that he had as yet received no .s
call to the Roanoke pastorship. Such
a call, it is stated, would not be set- .
tied before next March. Greene Me- |
morial Church, in Roanoke, has 1.400.
members and is one of the largest and
best known churches of its denomination
in the state of Virginia.
UIULXCAL SULILiY MEETS.
r
Fifty-Second Convention Opens at 1
^ Haverford College. 11
PHILADELPHIA. December 27.?The ; *
fifty-second meeting of tlie Society of ! 1
Biblical Literature and Exegesis open- jed
at Haverford College today. Delegates
are present from many sections N
and numerous addresses by distin-'
guished biblical scholars were on the S
program. Dr. Morris Jastrow. jr.. of *
the University of Pennsylvania, prefti- j
dent of the association, delivered Jiis i t
annual address today. His subject was t
"Constructive Klements in the Critical 5
Study of the Old Testament.",
Others who have accepted invita- ?
tions to address the meetings include ?
Wallace N. Stearns, Paul Haupt, John
P. Peters, George A. Barton. Warren J. .
Moulton. Dr. Immanuel Hensinger. Ben- ^
jamin W. Bacon. William H. Cobb, An- ]
drew D. Heffern, Harry C. York. Al- ^
bert C. Lane. John A. Maynard, Clayton
K. Bowen, Klias N. Rabinowitz, Max L.
Margoiis, Sartell Prentice, Kemper
Fullerton and Dr. J. A. Montgomery,
secretary of the society.
Civilians and Soldiers Clash. ?
HONOLITT.IT. T. H.. IVi'Pmber 27. _ "
Civilians and soldiers mingled Christ- r
mas night in a free-for-all fight on v
streets crowded with holiday makers.
Three soldiers were arrested and their
companions threatened to attack the
police department. One policeman was p
beaten. Order was restored by army d
officers, who turned out in charge of a' tl
provost guard and ordered all saloons ' tl
close'd. The police said that civilian j si
roysterers were as much to blame as tl
the soldiers for the disturbance. w
tl
Milk Cent Higher in Cleveland. ir
CLEVELAND, O., December 27.?With e'
the milk embargo in effect twelve days ft
it an end, the city today received its
normal supply of milk for the first 2
time in nearly two weeks. The price
was advanced as a result of the diffi- |
ultv, however, and is now 10 cents a
juart. instead of 9 cents, as previously.
The embargo was lifted last
light when producers and distributers D
igreed on a compromise price of 22p
cents a gallon, instead of 20 cents, as
[>reviously. The producers asked 23 tr
cents. F
t
(OPE BERLIN YET
IMETERMS
Jfficials Disappointed in German
Reply, But Think
Door Still Open.
AIGHT BE CONFIDENTIAL
Germany's reply to 1'resident Wilson's
cace note had not been received here in
fficial form early today and officials were
eserving their comment until they had
pportunity to study it.
Despite the disappointment he-ause
lermany has not acceded to the I'resilent's
suggestion and laid down Tier
erins, the general view prevailed that the
eply was another step forward in the
>eace movement because it left room for
ubsequent negotiations.
The I'nitcd States undoubtedly is
'\pected by Germany to transmit the
lense of her. reply to the entente beligerents
and the immediate outcome
lepends upon whether the allies will
nodify their determination not to enter
l conference before terms have beert
aid down.
Slow Progress Expected.
It was pointed out that the way ha?J
lot been closed for Germany to lay
lown terms as the allies demand. In
i diplomatic negotiation of such
magnitude and scope officials do not
ook for results to be immediately ap>arent.
hut expect the way to lie paved
carefully and slowly. The next move
vill not he determined until after the
ifticial text of the reply has been revived
atul carefully considered. Presilent
Wilson will discuss it thoroughly
Aith the cabinet, probably Friday.
Sorue officials pointed out that the
Suited States could do nothing further
ind could ?ot decide on a course until
he entente allies have also replied to
he note. Their answer has been foreast
by entente diplomats here as a
ourteous recognition of the President's
urposes and ideals, but probably a firm
efusal to enter into conference withiut
having terms advanced first.
Disappointed. But Hopeful.
Officials acknowledged their disap ointment
over Germany's failure to
eplv directly to the President's suggestion
that terms he laid down, but
were inclined to hold to the view that
he door to negotiations must neoessaily
remain open until the allies themelves
close it. There was a carefully
itudied attitude of refusing to make
my statement that might he considered
official, and an evident inclination
o view the situation as hopefully as
>ossible.
The view persisted in Teutonic quarers
that Germany's reply would be
'ollowed by a highly confidential oral
sr written communication ooncerningr
he terms upon which the central power*
are willing to make peace. The
German embassy, which repeatedly has
nade it clear that the central power*
,vere not likely to make public their
terms, had received no official advices
iron? Berlin today, but definite infornation
regarding the intentions of
the Teutonic allies was expected. Back*
rig: official advices. Teutonic diplomats
vere unable to throw much light upon
he manner in which terms might be
confidentially appended to the note
riven out in Berlin.
It was regarded as probable that they
night be conveyed to President Wilson
hrough Ambassador Gerard. In such
vent, even the fact that they had been
tated would not be disclosed.
Rumors of Sealed Packets.
Reports repeated i:i press dispatches
rom Rome that Germany had presented
to the neutral nations whose services
she asked in forwarding peace
luggestions sealed packets containing
erms, were the subject of njuch comnent
in diplomatic quarters. The Rome
eport had it that the packets were not
o be opened and forwarded to Germany's
enemies unless they, in reply
o tiie notes of the central powers of
December 12, specifically requested
erms. In German circles here it was
ronsidered more probable that direct
nformation on the subject would be
onveyed personally to President Wilson
through Ambassador Gerard.
"resident on 60th Birthday
Enters Upon Delicate Duty *
Due to European Struggle
President Wilson, arriving 'toinorow
at the sixtieth milestone of his
ife, having been born at Staunton.
,"a., December 2S. 1856. will receive,
ilong with European rumblings as to
leace, congratulations from the rulers
?f the nations of that hemisphere.
The sixty-first year of his life,
t'hicli he is about to enter, will in all
robability entail upon him the most
erious and delicate work of his
iolit'ical and official life, marked day by
ay u itli careful and diplomatic efforts
** * * '" ??"" .....V , w..inued
steps to prevent bis own counry
becoming involved in the great
truggle.
Today the President meditated along?
ver the possibilities of the future in
onnectiori with ad vires he is receiving
rom abroad and the latest step of Gerlany
in proposing an immediate peace
onference to consider plans to stop the
rar. Secretary Lansing: had no en-*
agement for a conference with the
'resident and the German move brought
o additional action front the White
louse.
No Further Move Planned.
On the face of things officials felt
onfident that the President will make
o further move until he has received
eplies from all the governments inolved
in the war.
President Wilson was believed today
3 be in possession ot' accurate injrmation
that the allied side of the
-ar has decided to reject Germany's
roposals as long as they remain ineflnite
ami so lon^ as they represent
le atmosphere of triumph, but that
lev will intimate a w illingness to con
der at all times well defined terms
lat are put forward in tlie sincere
ish to conclude the war on a basis
lat will prevent further wars.
The President is known to be receivtg
information that reaches no other
ye but his own. It comes from many
nd varied sources abroad, most of ij
om ambassadors of this country.
IIMMERMANN, IN PERSON,
DELIVERED GERMAN REPLY
BKRL1N. December SC. via London,
ecember 27.?The Gtorman answer to
resident Wilsons not? was taken to
le United States embassy today by
oreign Minister KaiMNpii K^ou-,
i
