THE BARRE DAILY TIMES'
IJAHRK. VKKMOXT, WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER
27, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
VOL. XX NO. 241.
'V
CALL IT STEP
TOWARD PEACE
Germany's Reply to Wilson's
Peace Note So Consid
ered in Washington
OFFICIAL COPY
HAS NOT ARRIVED
Government 'Officials. With
hold Comment on the .
Situation
Washington, D. C, Dec. 27. The offl
clal copy of Germany' reply to President
Wilson's peace note had not been received
here this morning and government offi
cials reserved comment regarding it. De
spite the disappointment because Ger
many did not accede to Wilson's sug
gestion and lay down terms, the general
view prevailed that the reply was an
other step forward in the peace move
ment, as it left room for subsequent ne
gotiations, k
President Wilson will discussmhe reply
thoroughly with the cabinet alter the
official text is received and fully' consid
ered. Ollicial information was received that
Sweden had addressed a peace note to
the belligerents and sent copies to neu
trals, urging consideration of terms of
peace. '.
SWEDEN ALSO SENDS
NOTE FOR PEACE
Both Belligerents and Neutrals Were
Handed Statement, According to
Berne Report By Way of
Paris.
Berne, via Paris, Dec. 27. Tageblatt
announces that the Swedish diplomatic
representatives have handed to both bel
ligerents and neutrals a note in support
of President Wilson and the Swiss gov
ernment. GERMAN AGENTS
HASTEN MATTERS
Have Arrived at The Hague to Make Pre
liminary Arrangements for
Peace Conference.
London, Dec. 27. A dispatch from The
, Hague to the Exchange Telegraph com
pany says that German agents have ar
rived there to make preliminary ar
rangements for the German delegates'
peace conference, suggested in the Ger
man reply to President Wilson's note.
The promptness of Germany's reply to
Wilson's note is characterized by even
ing papers to-day as evidence of Ger
many's eagerness to end the war. The
Standard expresses the hope that the al
lies will give Wilson a courteous but
definite reply and then proceed with the
war as energetically as possible.
MANY LIVES LOST
As Tornado Swept Through Parts of Ar
x kansas.
Little Rock, Ark., Dec. 27. From 17 to
20 persona were killed in a tornado that
struck south central Arkansas yesterday
afternoon, according to reports received
here last night.
Four are known to be dead at England,
17 reported killed at Keo and several are
reported killed at the state convict farm
at Tucker.
AH wires into the storm area are down.
The known dead are Albert L. Swarts,
a farmer, and three negroes, who lived
near England. The Swarts home was
carried 100 yards. Mrs. Swart was
probably fatally injured and an 18-year-old
daughter was hurt.
Ths storm is said to have swept a path
about four miles wide and it is reported
that several fires broke out Sn the wreck
age. Every physician in the little town
of England has gone to the country to
care for the injured.
Considerable alarm is felt over the sit
uation at the state farm at Tucker,
where there is said to have been a heavy
death list. There are about 325 prisoners
at the farm.
The death of three persons and the in
jury of five others are reported from Car
lisle, 2S miles east of Little Rock.
HEAVILY FINED FOR CRUELTY.
-
Joseph Tatro of Bristol Said to Have
Beaten His Horses.
Bristol, Dec. 27. Three men were ap
prehended yesterday for cruelty to ani
duals and in one case a heavy fine wag
imposed. Joseph Tatro, who was said to
. i . i . t i, : . i.nNrt.. j I
$100 and costs, and William Lucia and
man by the name of Larock were ordered
to dispose of their horses by this morn
ing or be prosecuted.
Humane Officer Fuller of Burlington
was called to Bristol yesterday. He
fo;md two of Tatro's horses in such bad
ronditiou that they had to be killed,
t Haiti's and f nrwL-'a linrftpii wer a in m
baillr emaciated state.
Tatro was charged with beating one i
of
bis hordes that had fallen in the snow
and it was unable to get up.
MOORE PAPER MILL SOLD.
International Paper Co. Assumes Owner
ship January 1.
Bellow Falls. Dec. 27. It wis an
nounced yesterday that beginning Jan.
1 the International Paper company will
assume ownership of the paper mill wf
John T. Moor 4 Son. This mill em
ployes 35 hinds and was built in 172
r "John Robertson and John T. Moore.
I make a high grade of heavy paper.
It is reported that the purchase price
Wi.s ia the vicinity of 1150,000.
VON MACKENSEN MAKES
FURTHER ADVANCE
While peace discussions are pro
ceeding, active military operations,
except in such remote fields as
those of Kgypt and the Tigris, are
being vigorously prosecuted only
on the Rumanian front. In thia
war area the latest reports show
that Field Marshal Von Mnckensen
is making new headway in an ad
vance toward Urania Grew, the
liumanian grain and oil storehouse
of the lower Danube.
On the Franco-Itelgian front, the
artillery Is said to be effective in
some sectors and the aviators have
been busy. The infantry arm of
the service on both sides is being1
held well to its position except for
occasional trench raids and patrol
enterprises.
NINE JURORS PICKED
IN SMALL TRIAL
AT OSSIPEE, N. H.
Five Were Selected This Forenoon After
55 Talesmen Had Been Examined
Small Is Charged with Kill
ing His Wife.
Ossipee, N. II., Dec. 27. Four jurors
were in the box when the trial of Fred
erick L. Small, charged with murdering
his wife, was resumed this morning and
the fifth juror was secured soon after
court opened. He was Elmer M. Kerry, A
farmer and carpenter ot .Moultonmiro.
At noon after 55 talesmen had liecn ex
amined, four additional jurors had been
accented, makimr nine in the box. In ad
dition to Berry, the others chosen to-day
were Victor Staples of Madison, a farm
er; Elmer C. Goodwin of MotiRonboro, a
carpenter; James Welch of Tamworth, a
farmer, and John T. Whittaker of Con
way. Those chosen yesterday afternoon were
James N. Solomon of Moultonboro, a
farmer; John E. Eastman of Bartlett, a
garage employe and farmer; Morris P.
ISennet of Tuftonboro, a farmer, and Ar
thur Willey of Albany, a farmer.
Small ts charged with having killed his
wife on Sept. 28. In his preliminary ex
amination the state sought information
concerning a joint insurance policy on his
own life and that of his wife, which
called for the payment of $20,000 to
either in case of the death ot the ouier.
The body of Mrs. Small was found in the
ruins of Mr ehttnge, which had burned
during the night after Mr. Small had
gone to Boston. There was a cord about
her neck, a bullet wound over one eye
and wounds on the head.
NEW YORK COATED
' BY ICE STORM
Streets Made Very Slippery and Wire
Service Was Seriously
Hampered.
New York. Dec. 27. A glaze storm
which loaded telegraph and telephone
wires with ice seriously interfered to-day
with communication in this state and to
a considerable extent throughout the
East. Some trouble was experienced as
far west as Chicago. New York streets
are coated with ice and traffic is badly
hampered.
TAKE STEPS TO BREAK
OFF NEGOTIATIONS
WITH CARRANZA
In Absence of Reply of Any Sort, United
States Government Arranges to
Close Conference.
Washington, D. C. Dec. 27. In the ab
sence of any reply from Carranza to the
insistence of the American commission
ers that he ratify or reject the protocol
signed at Atlantic City, Secretary Lane,
chairman of the American commission
ers, took the first step to-day toward
closing negotiations. The only comma
nication from the Mexican commission
ers received to-day was a note from the
secretary sent Iwst night, saying that no
reply had been received rrom tarranza,
CABRERA EXCITED.
Says United States Had No Right to Set
Date for Answer.
New York, Dec. 27. Luis Cabrera,
chairman of the Mexican delegation on
the Mexican-American, joint commission,
said here late last night that no time
limit had been fixed for General Carranza
either to accept or reject the protocol
proposed by the Mexican-American con
ference at Atlantic City, X. J. There
was no understanding during the ses
sions of the commission, he added, which
gave the American commissioner author
ity to impose such a time limit.
General Carranza, Mr. Cabrera de
clared, would have ample time to con
sider what action he would take. Sir.
Cabrera said he was surprised when in
formed that a reply was expected by
the United States government yester
day. Ife asserted that he had intended
to take a vacation beginning to-day, but
that he had altered his plans and would
remain here.
"Remember." said Mr. Cabrera, ''that
: t mo in adjusting he relations
.between this country and Mexico is not
General Carranza'.
Questioned as to the significance of
this statement, Mr. Cabrera would give
no explanation.
When the joint commission adjourned
in November, Mr. Cabrera added, the un
derstanding of the Mexican members was
that the joint commission would mit t
on January Z, prooaoiy in Jew iors
or Philadelphia.
Not one word, Mr. Cabrera declared,
had been said in the session of the com
missioners concerning a loan to Mexico.
A JOINT CONFERENCE
By Methodists to Agree on Basis of Co
operation. Baltimore, Md., Dec. 27. The Southern
Methodist memlierV joint commission, in
union with the Methodist Episcopal
ehiirrh. organized here to-dav to begin
deliberations tomorrow in an effort to.ditional equipment were purchased from
agree upon a definite basis of co-operate
nnTon of the two bodiee. The combined
hodv will represent wore than 6UKMXJ
members.
NOT A TRACE
OF STEAMER
Coast Guard Cutters Return
Without Finding the
Maryland
WHICH SENT WIRELESS
CALL FOR ASSISTANCE
Last Message Sunday Night
Said Steamer Was
Sinking
Nantucket, Dec. 27. The coast guard
cutters, Acushnet and Gresham, report
ed to-day that they had not been able to
tind any trace of tike steamer Maryland,
which sent a wireless call Sunday uight
saying she was sinking approximately
200 miles southeast of here. The water
flooded the Maryland's engine room and
put her wireless out of commission short
ly after the first distress signal was sent.
REPRESENTATIVE-ELECT DEAD.
Warren C. Daniels of Westmore Was
Prominent There.
Westmore, Dev. 27. Warren C. Dan
iels, a man well-known throughout this
locality, passed away yesterday after
being in poor health for the last two
rears.
Mr. Daniels was born in Westmore
August 10, 1SH2, the son of Wilcome and
Electa Daniels. He was educated in the
district schools of his native town.
He married Clara Atkins of Cabot in
1SK7 and thev have four children, Wil-
mar of Skinner, Me., Electa, Greta and
I'ercival, living at home. Two sisters
survive him,' Mrs. G. W. Brown of War
ren, N. H., and Mrs. L. J. Brown of
Bradford. He had conducted a general
store for a great many years, being post
master until the year MOO, when he was
elected to represent his town when Mrs.
Daniels secured the appointment and
has held the office ever since. He was
again elected to the general assembly on
November Jat. He had lieen twice clerk
and treasurer for 22 years.
The funeral will he held at the home
on Thursday at 1:30 p. m.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Ellis Stone returned to his home in
Cambridge yesterday, after visiting rel
atives on the east hill during the past
few days. t . .
The awards in the poultry show which
were announced to go to Donald Smith
of Barre should have been credited to
Mrs. Smith.
Allnrd M. nemenway, who bas been
spending several days in the city on
business, returned to his home in Bur
lington yesterday.
Miss Mildred Stockwell, who has been
visiting friends in the city over the holi
day, returned to her home in White Riv
er Junction to-day.
Leonard Thomson, who helped in the
postoffice during the holiday mail rush,
has finished and gone to Granitevillc to
visit during the remainder of his vaca
tion from Spaulding high school.
William Gallagher, who has been
spending several days with his mother,
Mrs. Martha Gallagher, returned last
night to New Haven, Conn., where ho is
employed in a munitions plant. He was
accompanied by J. A. Little, who has
been visiting relatives in Graniteville.
The remains of Mrs. Emery, whose
death occurred in Haverhill, Mass.,
passed through the city late yesterday
afternoon while en route to Williams
town over the Central Vermont railroad.
Interment was made to-day beside the
body of her first husband, whose death
occurred several years ago.
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Mather, who have
been visiting at the home of Mrs. Brad
ford's parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Brad
ford, of South Main street during the
past few days, left last night for Bur
lington, where they will visit friends
during the coming week. Mrs. Mather
will return to Barre afterwards to con
tinue her visit.
Among four transients detained at po
lice headquarters last night was Thomas
Smith of Enfield, N. II., a habitue of
Barre and Montpelier city courts, who
was arrested yesterday on an intoxica
tion charge. Inquiry developed the in
formation that Smith was supposed to
1m; serving an uncompleted sentence for
intoxication in the county jail. Recent
ly, he was a part of the prison labor
staff employed on the State House job
at the capital. When arraigned before
Magistrate II. V. Scott in city court
this morning, the latest case against the
man was continued and he was remanded
to jail to complete his last sentence.
John J. Phipps of Rutland went to jail
for a second offense and James Martin
of Philadelphia, admitted a second of
fense, chose the jail sentence. I naries
P. McLaughlin of' Windsor, listed as an
habitual drunkard, went to jail for nine
ty days.
Self-rescuers of a- type recognized as
a piece of standard equipment by fire
departments in larger municipalities have
been purchased by the alderuianic tire
committee and placed at the disposal of
the regular firemen at the central sta
tion. The rescuers are two in number
and resemble nothing m much as the
gas helmets now used along the KuroH
an battle fronts. Each helmet is equipped
with an oxygen cylinder with extra cyl
inders and regenerators. Burlington re
cently added three helmets to its fire
department apparatus and Montpelier
contemplates the purchase of one or two
helmets, perhaps more. For the time,
being only two will be ued here in
Barre, as 'they will enable two firemen
to enter a smoke-filled building and han
dle a line of hoi-e. The helmets and ad
it he IVaeger Oxygen Co. which makes. jthe fire broke out the monks, number-
specialty of mi safety equipment.! were a, prayer in the chap...
and were
placed ia tne servi t tois
morning.
MANY AWARDS MADE
AT POULTRY SHOW
W. j. Coatet of East Calais Swept Field
with Blue Andalusian W. Barclay
Scott of Barre Won Barre
Board of Trade Cup.
Interest in the 11th annual exhibit of
(he Vermont Poultry association, in prog
rws at the Church street gymnasium, ap
proached its climax to-day when the
judges completed their examination of
the birds and the public was allowed to
see the results of their selections. All ot
the birds registered are now on exhibl
tion and many people are taking advan
tage of the unusual opportunities offered
for inspecting blooded poultry in varied
classes. No sooner had the door swung
open this morning than a large crowd
was applying for admission and tlirougn
out the day the aisles established by the
arrangement of the coops were crowded,
The attendance last evening waa un
usually large and the floor managers are
anticipating another big crowd to-night.
The exhibit will not close until Thursday
evening. The show has attracted many
farmers from outlying towns and the at.
tendance of poultry specialists from a
distance is very satisfactory also.
To-dav, along with the announcement
of the class winner, came the distribu
tion of the special prizos. W. J. Coates
of East Calais, who is secretary of the
Blue Andalusian (lilb of America, swept
the field with his fine showing of birds of
that strain. S. W. Dunbar of St. Albans
captured the sweepstakes with his ex
hibit of Brahma bantams and the corner
reserved for his feathered proteges was
always the center of attention for many.
E. R, Flint of Tunbridge is here with a
large showing of turkeys and ducks. On
the latter species ba won all the ribbons
and was awarded the sweepstake on
NarrHL'ansett turkeys. To Karl 1-orsell
of Montpelier, who breeds much blooded
poultry, went the sweepstakes on pig
eons. Airs, v.. A. arey iook- an me
prizes in sight on bronze turkeys II.
Buxton of Bellows Falls was awarded a
first ribbon on his eockerel in the Par
tridge Plymouth Rock class.
The Barre Board of Trade cup went to
W. Barclay Scott of Fairview poultry
farm, who is president of the state asso
ciation. The cup wae a premium on the
lust cock, hen, cockerel, pullet and pen
in the American or English breeds. Mr.
Scott is said to be an extensive breeder
of Barred Rocks. John Gellntly won the
special prize offered by M. S. Levin for
exhibitng the best colored bird in the
show. O. N. Eastman of Burlington was
awarded the punch bowl and glasses of
fered by President Scott for the best
bird in the show, a cockerel of the Buff
Wyandotte species. To Charles Olliver
went the special cup offered by the Moxie
company tor tne nest -pair on me iium.
Mr. Olliver deals exclusively in nun
Plymouth Rocks. All of the trophies
listed in the ieeial class form an at
tractive exhibit in the display window at
the store of B. W. Hooker i Co. and
visitors at the show should not miss the
opportunity to give them a careful scru
tiny. A. E. Ciimmiiigs of Lebanon, X. IL,
has a large string of Rhode Island Reds
on exhibition nnd Morgan Robcrson of
Boltonville is showing Buff Orpingtons.
Richard Marble of "Woodstock is attract
ing much attention with his Single-Comb
Rhode Island Reds. H. A. Holmes of
Charleston, N. 11., is another exhibitor
who brought many birds to Barre. J. H
Vondcll of Windsor has much in com
mon with W. B. Scott, as both are ex
tensive breeders of the famous Barred
Rock vuriety.
Awards announced to-day include the
following:
Barred Rocks Cockerel bred, W. B. Scott,
1st, 2d and Sd cock. 1st and 2d hen : W. Em-
lie, Sd hen : Alex. Rennie, 4th hen ; Ems he.
6th hen. Mr. Emslie won 1st cockerel and Mr.
Scott won 2d and 3d cockerel. Others in the
same class weret A. C. Briaira. 6lh ockerel:
Emslie : 1st pen of young. W. B. Scott ; 2d pen
of younir, W. B. Scott: 3d pen of youna and
4th, W. Emlie. W. B. Scott won the cup on
the beet display, the ribbons on shape and color
on male, and W. Knulie won the ribbons on
lit Den of old. W. il. scon ; za pen m wiu, .
shape and color of female.
Barred KocKs rullel Drea : ii cuc,
hen. 2d hen. W. B. Scott: Sd. 4th hen. W.
Krnnlie; lt cockerel. W. Emilie: 2d cockerel,
W. B. Scott: 3d cockerel. VV, Enwlie; 4th cock
erel, W. t.msile : 1st puiiri, . r.nwue ;
let, W. B. Scott: Sd pullet, w. .mne; in
pullet, W. B. Scott: 6th pullet, W. Emslie: lt
pen of old, W. Emslie: 2d pen old, W. B. Scott ;
1st pen youna. V. B. Scott : 2d pen younir. W.
Emslie: Sd pen of younir.' W. B. Scott; 4th and
6th pen of young. W. Emslie. W. B. Scott won
shape and color on male; W. Emslie, shape
and color on female and cup on best display.
Buff Rocks 1st cock, r.dwin Keaat; za cock.
C. Olliver: 1st hen, E. Keast : 2d hen. W. Ol
llu.rr Xrf hen. K. Keast: 4ih hen. W. Olliver: 1st
cockerel. W. Olliver; 2d, Sd, 6th eockerel, 0. Ol
liver; 4th cockerel, .. Krast; 1st pullet, L. ui
liver; 2d. 3d pullet, W. Olliver; 4th pullet. B.
Keast; 1st pen- of old, C. Olliver; 2d pen of
old, E. Keast; Sd pen of old. W. Olliver; 1st
pen of younir, t;. uinver; ta pen m younsr, .
Olliver; Sd pn of young. E. Keast. W. Olliver
won the ribbon for the best shaped male and
C. Olliver the ribbons for the best colored
male, best shape and best color female, and
the run for the best display on Buff Rocks.
White Wyandotles 1st cock. J. McKeniie ;
2d cock. James Palmer; 8d cock, W. A. Drew;
4th cock. E. M. White ; 6th cock. P. Park ; 1st
and 2d hun, W. A. Drew ; 8d hen. P. Park ; 4th
hen. E. M. White; 6th hen, James Palmer; 1st
cockerel, P. Park ; 2dcoekerel. J. Gellatly : 3d
cockerel, J. McKemie : 4th cockerel, J. Alexan
der; nth cockerel, J. McKensie; 1st pullet, J.
C.ellatlv; 2d pullet. E. M. White; 3d pullet. J.
McKemie: 4th pullet. J. Palmer: 6th pullet, J.
Mcintosh : 1st pen of old, P. Park ; 2d pen of
old, E. M White; 1st pen of younir, K. M.
White; 2a pen of younsr, J. Palmer; 3d pen of
younir. P. Park : best shaped male. J. McKen
sie : best colored male, Peter Park ; best
shaped and colored female, J. Gellatly. Peter
Park won the cup for the best display.
Black Javaa 1st cock. E. Keast; 2d cock. H.
Olliver: 1st hen. E. Keast: 2d hen. H. Olliver;
3d hen, E. Keast: 1st cockerel. 2d and Sd. H.
Olliver ; 1st and 2d pullet, E. Keast ; 3d pullet,
H. Olliver.
A O. Comstock of Smith Barre won every
thing on Houdans. All of the ribbons on
Partridire Wyandotte were taken by Harry
Stackpole of Montpelier. A. C. Oilman of
Montpelier won all the prisea offered on Silver-
Laced Wyandot tea.
Rc Comb Khorfe Island Reds A. Cumminvs
of Lebanon. N. H., 1st cock, 1st hen, 1st and
3d cockerel, id pullet. 1st pen younir. best
shape and color male; E. M. Lyon. 2d cock. 2d
and Sd hen, 4th cockerel, 6th pullet. 2d and 3d
pen old : W. Innes, 3d cock ; H. A. Holmes, 4th
cork. 2d cockerel. 1st pullet. 2d pen youna-,
also cup for best display : C. A. Dodire. 4th
and 6th heu. 1st pen old-; E. R. Flint, 6th eock
erel. 4th pullet; J. Alexander, Id puel
Sina-le Comb Rhode Island Red James
Hooper of Montpelier. 1st cock. 1st cockerel. 3d
pullet, hmt shape and color male; R. S. Cur.
rw of R.rre. 2d. 4th and Mh cork i,k .'na
hen, 4th corker-el, 1st pullet, 1st and 2d pen
old. best shaped female, rl color female-, sil- :t, , i; v.. .,! . small
er cup for best dwnlsy: E. M. Lyon. s,i cock.1'?"1- 'raveling bag and a small
Sd and 4th h-n. 4th and fith pullet: N. M
Lead. Mh eockerel; E. K. Mint, 2d pullet, 1st
pen young.
MONKS FOUGHT FIRE.
Tlf w.r. TTnsM t i. M....t... .. '1
Chapel.
Montreal. TVc. 27. The monastery and
chspel of the Trappnet monks at Ok
wag destroyed by fire to-day. When!
ins iou;ni tne names vigorously uus
ere unable to control them.
FARM BANKS
ARE LOCATED
District No. 1, Which In
eludes Vermont, to Be at
Springfield, Mass.
TWELVE CITIES NAMED
FOR THE HONOR
New York and New Jersey
Come Under Spring
field Group
Washington, D. C, Dec. 27. Spring
field, Maws., Baltimore, I'olumbia, S. C,
Louisville, New Orleans, St. Louis, St.
Paul, Omaha, Wichita, Kan., Houston,
Tex Berkeley, Ulif, and tyokane,
Wash., have been chosen as locations for
the twelve federal farm loan banks. Dis
trict number one, which will be served
by Springfield, consists of Maine, New
Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts,
Rhode Island, Connecticut, ew lor ana
New Jersey.
FOSTER WITT.
Barre Dentist and Post-Graduate Student
at Goddard Married.
The marriage of Miss Alice Witt of
Winchendon, Mass., to Dr. Arthur C.
Foster of Barre took place in Burlington
vesterday, the Unitarian minister of that
place performing the ceremony. Miss
Ctertrude Foster of Tlattsburg, N. Y., a
sister of the groom, acted as bridesmaid,
while Lawton Witt, brother ol the bride,
was ln-st man.
The couple left Burlington last evening
for Montreal, V. " Q., where they will
spend tho next week on their honeymoon
trip, after which they will return to
Barre. Miss Witt is a graduate of AVin-
chendon high school in the class of 1911
and during the past fall has been taking
post-eraduate work at fioddard seminary.
Dr. Foster is a well-known dentist in
this city, having practiced here for two
years. He was graduated from the Ohio
College of Dentist Surgery, Cincinnati
O., in the class of 15)14.
SMALL FIRE AT QUARRY
Destroyed One Engine House of E.
Smith & Co.
Fire which broke out at two different
times in the night destroyed one of the
smaller engine houses at the F. L. rnuth
A Co. quarries in Oranitevilte this morn
ing. It is said that a blaze in the build
ing was discovered last evening and that
after the fire had been subdued two men
remained to guard against a second out
break. When the flames were discovered
early this morning a crowd which gath
cred at the quarry was helpless to pre
vent the structure from burning. Only a
bucket brigade was available, and the
fact that the water holes m the quarry
were frozen over probably militated
acainst the chances for saving the build
ing. The structure housed two electric
engines and two 50-h. p. motors. Officers
of the company were notified of the blaze
early to-day, and Donald Smith and K. I)
Kent were at the quarries this forenoon.
An electrician was taken along to look
over the machinery, and if it develops
that repairs can be made without ship
ping it away, the loss resulting from the
hre will not be heavy, llie engine build
ing was loosely constructed and burned
quickly. Two derrick hoists were oper
ated from the engine room, but members
of the company do not believe that the
fire will have the effect of slowing down
quarrying operations to any considerable
extent.
AFTER A LONG ILLNESS
Mrs. Egidio J. Rulfo Passed Away Yes
terday Afternoon.
Mrs. Annabelle M Rulfo, wife of Egi
dio J. Rulfo, passed away at her home in
the Morse block Tuesday afternoon, the
end following a long illness. Besides her
husband she is survived by her father,
Ewen Mackenzie of (Jroton, her sister,
Mrs. Louis Bottiggi of the Montpelier
road, and by three brothers, John Mac
kenzie, Alexander Mackenzie and George
Mackenzie, all of Barre. Her mother's
death occurred in August. The deceased
was born Annabelle Mackenzie in Barre
Nov. 14, lHPd, and was, therefore, 25
years old. Her marriage to Mr. Rulfo
took, place in Bai-re in September, 1014.
Mrs. Rulfo was a young woman of many
fine qualities ami her untimely death has
brought sorrow to a very wide circle of
friends.
The funeral will be held at the home
of her brother in Beckley court Thurs
day afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev. Edgar
Crossland. pastor of the First Presbyte
rian church, will officiate and interment
will be made in Hope cemetery.
ADMITTED HIS GUILT.
Leon Parrelle Arrested for Robbery in
Lyndonville.
St. Johnsbury, Dec. 27. IVputy Sher
iff L. W. Graw returned yesterday from
Sanford, Me., with Leon Parrelle, who
waa arrested at the home of bis parents
in the Maine town on a charge of break
ing into tbre stores at Lyndonville
last Friday nichU The officer states
that several of the stolen articles, in
rllldinff a wrist watch, revolvers, flai-h
sum of
money were found at the Parrelle home.
1 arrelle admits his guilt
nd has
waived examination, his case being set
for this term of Caledonia county court.
A drvgood store, clothing store and a
store were entered rriday nurht
and about 20 in money and considerable
merchandise stolen. When suspicion
pointed to Parrelle he left town ami was
I traced to rxinioru, .nr.
It
ki;-t T,. S. resrmnsihle
for break, made in Lyndonvillo store
(three week, ago. Parrelle .s 22 years
urn ana nan oeen rmpiovfu in mr
Usi 4. Maine car ahop at LyndonviUe,
CITY'S REVENUE FROM
GAS COMPANY GROWS
Two Per Cent of the Gross Earnings
Makes the Amount Receivable
$610.85 Other Matters
Considered.
A small melon for the city was report
ed at the last council meeting of the wan
ing year last evening when the auditors
filed the result of their examination of
the hooka of the People's Lighting, Heat
lug & Power Co. I'nlike other corpora'
tions that operate or seek to rperate
public utilities here in the city, the gas
company is required by franchise to di
vert a percentage of iU gross earnings to
the city exchequer. In the year ending
June 30 the company, according to the
report of the auditors, earned ?.l(l,54i.i
and the city's slice of 2 per cent amounts
to ftil((.H5,'a sum somewhat larger than
the coupon dipped by the city on the
same bond in Mia. Just now. with the
city's finances at a eomaratively low
ebb, the Christmas present from the gas
makers looms up comtortauly large.
In the aftermath of the brief alder
manic sossion, the council convened for a
few moments to report on the petition
of Anthony Tomasi for a permit to mov
a buildinu at in Merchant street towaru
the highway for the purpose of adding
thereto a third story. The alderuianic
rommittp of tll, wnolp, after invest igat
imf the request, formed the opinion that
the annex should lie permitted, an opin
ion in which the fire chief and building
inspector are said to have concurred. The
report was adopted unanimously ami
then the council went into executive ses
sion. Cemetery trust funds figured very
largely in the grist of warrants submit
ted by the treasurer for approval. The
following sums were mentioned: $1,250,
funds refunded to the cemetery trust
fund; $725.4U. interest on trust funds
paid to William McDonald, trustee;
9328.15, interest due on Hope cemetery
funds: $2.15.51. interest due on Klmwood
cemetery trust funds; Alexander Han
ton, $8.50, returning burial permits; li
brary committee, $2Sn.70, proceeds of dog
fund; Barre Savings Bank & Trust Co.,
91.4S7.50, Interest on water bonds, $1,
150.50, interest on refunding bonds; ad
dition to 1010 sinking fund, ij.GlH.H5; city
treasurer, 40 cents, cash paid out on
street superintendent's orders; M. & B.
L. 4 P. Co., $(Hi.lS, November lighting;
Kenney Mfg. Co., 917, street sprinkler re
pairs; ' Venn on t Tel. A Tel. Co., $17.20,
repairing fire alarm system; street de
partment payroll, 9270.10, street, state
highway, sidewalk and health accounts;
water department payroll, $44.87; fire de
partment payroll. $!)tl.30; police depart
ment payroll, $05.80; G. A. Bemis, $14,
services as janitor; treasurer of Barclay
fund, $20, unused; Driggles Oxygen Co.,
$120.50, fire fighting apparatus. A reso
lution appropriating money to several
departments1 was read and passed to its
second reading.
F. D. Beckley's efforts to light a cer
tain district near his house on Beckley
court were unavailing, as the lighting
committee, rerorttng on his application
for a street light in the court, recom
mended that it be turned down on the
ground that the light would be on pri
vate property. The street committee
asked for an additional week in which to
investigate stone crushers and the re
quest was granted.
Wiring permits reported by the in
spector, were granted as follows: Mrs.
Nina Lewis, to hang a dome on Cottage
street; Vermont Poultry association, to
install temporary lights in Church street
gym.; Trow & liolden, to wire for a mo
tor in South Main street machine shop;
0. M. Marrion, to wire for lights on Mer
chant street; Mrs. A. W. McNeil, to in
stall a fixture at lfiS Hill street; Mrs.
G. II. iStuart, to install a fixture at 13
Spaulding street; Barre Steam Co., to in
stall a motor on Blaekwell street; Mrs.
P. M. Carr, to install a fixture at 27
Camp street; M. & B. L. 4 P. Co., to in
stall two meters; J. A. Field, to install
lights at 174 Washington street.
TREE WELL BURDENED.
Christmas Exercises Were Held at Hed-
ding M. E. Church.
Children and members of the Hedding
Methodist society enjoyed the annual
Christmas exercises and tree lat even-
inxi, when a large number gathered in
the vestry of the church. Two large
trees were tilacd in the south side of
the room loaded with presents and bags
of pop corn and candy. Each child was
presented a bag of the Christmas sweets.
The trees were very prettily decorated
with the usual Christmas colors of ml
and white against the green spruce
boughs, giving a delightful effect. A
nicely arranged program was in t.rder
shortly after 7 o'clock with Miss Mildred
Hit'ffs in charge. Those participating in
the entertainment in both the recitations
and singing did remarkably well in their
work and deserve a great deal en credtf
n their efforts. After the entertainment
was completed, the trees were quicKiy
cleared of their presents, John Sowles
calling the names and children of the
Sundav school distributing the guts.
Later, a general social hour was in or
der, the children going to the hasemet.!,
where they1 delighted themselves with
various games.
The program is as follows: Recita
tion. Rachel Higgs; recitation, Carlyle
Suitor; solo, Mildred Bosworth; re-it A
tion, Doris Davis; recitation, Evelyn Em
erson: solo, Clara Lawless; recitation,
Dorothy Suitor; reading. Marion Ai:ker;
duet. Bertha and Lena Higgs; recitation.
Olive Waterman; recitation, Harold
Stone; solo. Ma. line Sullivan; reeitatio;;,
Winona Spencer; recitation, Eleanor
Lebourveau.
FROM PILLS TO PREACHING.
Dr.
W. R. Rowland of East Corinth to
Be Universalist Minister.
Ea Corinth. Dec. 27 Dr. W. R. Row-
land, for many years a practicing phv
Ician of this place, has given up his medi
'cal practice and will enter the I'niversal-j
ir imntttrv. havuiir received a call In
take charge of the I'niversalist parir.be j llerlM-rt McCrea and Archie McDonald,
at New Madixon, Greenville and Pales- who have been vi-iting friends and rel
tine. O. jatives in the city during the past few
Dr. Rowland has been prominent in! days, returned to their work in New
the l'niverlit denomination in thia -Haven, t'onn., to-day. '
state for many years, liein? a raein!srj Cards announcing the marriage yester
of the executive board of the state con - Jsv of Mis Hattie E. White of Brock-
..... - . ... . . , e i- t:,t
vent ion and hokting lu-cnse as a I;iv
'preacher. He has alo b.n interested in
politic. t held the omina-
- of t he J- T 7.
- - - -
7.
STATE HOUSE
'FORCE NAMED
Sergeant -at -Arms Getting
Ready for Legisla
ture's Opening
DWIGHT J. DWT AX
DEPUTY r sr0DIAN
V.
Herbert Locke of Fair
Haven to Be Postmaster
One Place Not Filled
Announcement was made to-day by
Sergeant-at-Ariiia Frank T. Parsons of
the appointment of State House attaches
for the legislative session which begins
next week. He has named Dwight J.
Dwinell of Montpelier as deputy ser-
geaiit-at-arma, the salary Wing $3.50 per
day. The assistants in the sergeant-at-
arms department are to be as follows:
Grover C. TemnUton of Worcester. Wil
liam M. Mcacham of Morrisville, Ford T.
rlagg of Richmond and R. S. Pierce of
Waterville. The pay of the assistants
is $3 per day.
Herbert N. Loekp of Fair Haven is to
be postmaster with stipend of $3.50 per
day. The coat room attendants are Lu
ther M. Kavlin of South Burlington, Guy
K. Colby of Post Mills and Leslie W.
Hayes of Waterbury, lieing paid $3 per
day. The announcement of executive
messenger will be made later.
The doorkeepers, who are to be as
signed to their places later, are Hoyt S.
Knight of South Rovalton, Russell S.
Smith of Addion. Lindley S. Squires of
Holland and William A. Reid of Mont
pelier: salary $3.50 per day. The pages
are: Edward S. Dana of New Haven,
Robert Lotigtin of Bennington, George
Douglas of Barre, Russell Seavey of Is
lad Pond, Joseph K. Darling of Chelsea,
Fred Burke of Georgia, John R. W. Ban
croft of East Calais and Kenneth Somer-
ville of Waterbury. The boys are to be
paid $2.25 per day, and their assignments
will be made later.
John W. Hill of Montpelier gets the
position of janitor at $3 per day, and the
assistant janitors-are to tie James S.
Watkins of Montpelier, Burt N. Peck of
Montpelier, L. A. Flint of Montpelier,
George F. Tavlor of Montpelier, Roy S.
Christie of Glover, W. B. Mobus of War
ren. Stephen Farrand of Berlin and II. B.
Hale of Burlington. They will receive
$2.75 per day. The engineer is George
R-ed of Montpelier at a salary ol S3 pet-
day and the night watchman is Ira IL
Edson of Montpelier at $2.25 per day.
CANDIDATE FOR SPEAKER.
Daniel E. O'SuIlivan, Democrat, of Wi
nooski Announces Himself.
AVinootdti, Dec. 27. Town Representa
tive Daniel E. O'SuIlivan has announced
his candidacy as speaker on the Demo
cratic side of the House at the coming
legislature, which convenes at Montpel
ier a week from to-day. Mr. O'SuIli
van has been chairman of the Democrat
ic town committee for 20 years, chairman
of the county committee for six years,
a delegate to the lJemocratic national
. . . J Al -
convention at isaiiimore, iuis, mm im-o
named Thomas Brown of Rutland tor
national committeeman from Vermont.
He has been town grand juror for many
vears and a library trustee since the m- ,
ccption of the free library in town.
MEET IN MONTPELIER.
Milk
Producers of Washington County-
Invited Dec. 30.
On Saturday, Dec. 30, all the milk
producers in each county in New England
will meet to hear about nnd join the
New Encland Milk Producers associa
tion. In ' Washington county the meet
ing place will be Montpelier city hall, in
the memorial room, at 10 a. m. An or
ganizer or representative will be present
at each of these county meetings to teil
about the association, what it has done,
what it aims to do and what it can d'
if every milk producer in New England
joins with it.
The idea is better prices for better
milk, co-operative purchase of supplies,
associated selling, and the county meet
ings will be closely followed up by a
trained corps of organizers. Flans will
be made at Montpelier for the formation
of local unions and it is expected be
fore the end of January most of the.
Oil.innil farmers who own the SlW.OOll
cows in New England will have formed
their local unions and their county un
ions. Enthusiasm everywhere welcomes the
big scheme to organize all New England
in a single day. "Now you are going at
it right," wires a Connecticut producef
to Secretary Pattee of the New England
Milk Producers' association. This tele
gram expresses what every farmer erjs.
Make a clean job of it, brother tarrtir
ers. Let .every one attend the meeting
at his county "seat next week Saturday.
Dec. 30, at 10 a. m., and join the )
M. P. A.
TALK OF THE TOWN
- J 6 1 J
Mrs. Daisy Kingston of Nicholville, N.
Y has been pa-sing a few days in the
citv as the guest, of Mrs! Grace W. Cut
ler' of Jefferson street.
Master Donald Bugbee of Richarf.n
street left yesterday for WaterblkrV,
where he will spend a week visiting 9t
the home of his aunt, Mrs. Eugene Mag-
mis. - '"
ton. Ala., to troi i.air oi irow nm,
were receneii in me cut i-ua .
the.
jnam. 'm?",("h;
IZl.'TrJZV.
. ...
Gale a farm oa the ear;t hill.
