TO THE ADVERTISER
"A labor paper of 2,000 circulation Is
a better advertising medium than an
ordftiaty paper of 12,000 circulation."
Printers Ink, the highest authority on
advertising mediums.
Vol. 23, No. 65.
4*
&
WLO ^5s
Dozens, yes hundreds, of similar
affidavits show the insufferable in­
dustrial conditions these unorganized
toilers struck against last summer.
In answer to the striker's demands
the Steel Trust flooded the district
with deputized thugs. An armored
train was built for these worthies
to use, and machine guns were in­
stalled to shoot down the1 citizen
striker*. Official brutality rampant,
beat, jailed and shot over 600 men
and women. The strikers were try­
ing to 1-eep the peace. But these
paid trouble-makers would not have
it so. Leaving company ground they
bull-dozed and even killed citizens
upon the public streets and private
lots, Invading homes to Intimidate
the miners back to work.
It was in one of these raids that
a deputy was killed by one of his
own drunken crew. Yet, besides the
unarmed strikers who, at most, were
defending their homes and persons,
three strike leaders were gathered
up at distant towns far from the
tragedy anrl charged with complicity
in killing the 'leputy. Altogether, one
woman, «four strikers and three or­
ganizers, Sam Scarlett, Carlo Tresca
and Joe SchnV'lt, were indicted by
what, the Mesaba C?re, a local paper
the Steel Trust cannot buy. called a
"hand-picked jury." Rightly so, as
it failed to do its plain duty by re­
fusing to indict Nick Dillon, one of
the gunmen in the affray, who. wit­
nesses swore went out of the house
that day and delib -ately shot and
killed Thomas Ladvalla, an innocent
peddler standing in the road. Trials
of these strikers begin early in De
cember.
Such are the conditions labor faces
in the industrial barony of northern
Minnesota, under the control poli­
tically and industrially of United
States Steel corporation.
NEWSIES FORM UNION
MEMPHIS, Tenn., Nov. 0.—
The newsboys have proven them­
selves pioneers anions the work­
ers for organized labor in Ten­
nessee, a union of the newsies
having been formed last week.
The new Newsboys' union started
with a large charter member­
ship, and ir Glides more than half
the boys In the city.
JL
GOT $12.70 WEEK, RANGE
MINER SAYS IN AFFIDAVIT
BY HARRISON GEORGE,
Special Investigator for The Labor World.
At the invitation of Mr. Downing, the superintendent, the write1"
recently visited the workings of the Bennett mine on the Mesaba
Iron Range of Minnesota.
It was the plain intention of Mr. Downing to absolve himself
and his firm, a so-called independent concern, from the general
biame and disgrace attached to all Mesaba Range operators as a
result of the industrial tyranny brought to light by the recent, miners
strike.
Giving this concern all due credit for the modern sanitary and
safety devices used and the humane spirit Mr. Downing seems to have,
together with the rates of wage paid it was self-evident that this
mine was what others in the district could be and were not that the
wage rate was only a reasonable compensation which others would
not give and that altogether the miners recent strike was for de­
mands companies could easily grant and still make a good profit
from its toilers.
In fact Mr. Downing would not allow the writer to publish an
itemized statement of his wage scale showing an average daily wage
paid of $3.45 saying that, "The other operators might get sore about
the comparisons to be drawn."
For men who do the hardest kind of labor in the midst of the
danger and darkness of the mountain's belly, $3.45 per day strikes
the writer as being inadequate enough. When you consider that
these men must dig the iron ore which makes the machinery of the
world and the skeleton of civilization, no one, outside the Steel Trust,
will deny that these men are deserving of even more than the Ben­
nett mine pays, let alone the unbearable conditions and pitiful wages
they struck against last summer
Affidavits are before me from
\yhich I draw the following1 exT
tracts concerning wag© conditions
that brought about the strike. Conies
Matt n, who swears upon
oath "That he worked in the Al­
pena mine for the Oliver Mining1
company, during 1915 and up to the
strike in 1916, that his average wage
during 1915 was about $2.23 per
day. That the highest average ever
received was $2.98 during February,
1916."
Comes "Peter K- -h, being
first duly sworn upon oath says, that
(reciting promises of raises not re­
ceived) the average wage for men
in" the Shiras mine was from $2.35
to $2.60 per day and no more."
Comes "John D., being duly sworn
rays, that he is a .miner of 17 years
experience. That during the month
of April, 1916, he worked at the
Clark mine for seven and one-half
days and was paid for his labor the
sum of $12.70 and no more."
ll Pj
MINNEAPOLIS, Nov. 9.—Thomas
Van Lear, Socialist candidate for
mayor, and member of he Machin­
ists' union, was elected here by a ma­
jority of 5,000.
The election is the result of a vig­
orous campaign waged by organized
labor and the Socialist party.
Van Lear in the primaries received
the highest vote in a contest in which
eight candidates competed.
Since then his opponents have left
nothing undone to cause his defeat.
They refused to discuss local issues.
Speakers were imported from ether
cities in an endeavor to cloud the is­
sues.
Van Lear refuse'" to be drawn into
any of these arguments, but made his
campaign strictly on local issues.
Organized labor stood behind their
candidate and contributed pot only
their labor but their dimes and dol­
lars.
Two Socialist aldermen and a mem­
ber of the school board were elected
and one Socialist was elected to the
park board.
SEE METAL STRIKE
MILWAUKEE, Nov. 9.—Hints of a
new metal trades strike to take place
soon hpre, were made by several of
the speakers in the vchinists' meet­
ing in Kilbourn hall, Auditorium, last
night.
Emmett L. Adams, who handled
the recent machinists's strike here,
came from St. Louis to attend the
meeti. g, and was given a rousing re­
ception. He expressed in the strong­
est language his belief that now that
the workers in Milwaukee had seen
the effect or collective action, there
would never be pei ce, contentment or
harmony in the Milwaukee field until
those were doing their part of
the world's work had secured for
themselves condition:} at least equal
to those of other lo. ^lities.
J. Frank Blakely of the printers
aroused the meeting to a* high pitch
of enthusiasm in a half hour taik. He
said the principle of unionism "was
found in other ranks only the low
yers, doctors and members of the
Merchants and Manufacturers' asso­
ciations Wd not call their 9rganlza
tions unions. The cost of living, he
said, had gone up 54 per cent in 10
years and "it was up to trade union­
ism to se.-« that wages were corre­
spondingly increased."
Many women were present. F. W.
Rehfeld, John- J. Handley and Max
Grass made reports on their depart­
ments during the strike..
1
STEEL TRUST VICTIMS
APPEAL FOR HELP
FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE, ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS,
President of the United States
The electon of President Wilson at this writing seems certain.
Considering the character of the opposition to his re-election the vic­
tory is wonderful. The power of plutocracy in America has been
desWroyed. Special privilege is doomed. The forces that have
strangled justice and robbed the people for 50 years back are crushed.
A new nation is born A new freedom permeates the atmosphere.
Human rights will take precedence over the claims of the dollar."
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE THEIR FACES TURNED
TOWARD THE MORNING SINGING NEW SONGS OF LIBERTY.
The intelligent men and women who could not be puchased and
whose souls are free saved the nation for mankind. Woodrow Wil­
son returns to the White House unobligated to a single sinister in­
fluence. He is free, as he always lias been, to continue the great
fight for human emancipation. Social and economic justice are as­
sured to all.
GREAT IS THE AMERICAN NATION, AND GREATER ARE
ITS PEOPLE.
WILLIAM E. McEWEN.
PAPER MAKERS STRIKE
FOR SHORT WORK-DAY
GLOUCESTER, N. J., Nov. 9.—
The workers in the employ of Hinde
& Dauch Paper Manufacturing com­
pany have tired of working two
twelve-hour shifts and demand a re­
duction to three eight-hour turns.
When the demand was presented, a
representative of the company ad­
vised the committee that its request
would be taken under consideration
and an answer given in three days.
Realizing thbt that would be playing
into the hands of the company, they
determined to force the issue and
served notice that when the company
had made up its mind to grant the
demands to advise the committee,
and they then left for their homes.
PITTSBURGH. Nov. 9.—The strik­
ers who have been jailed for alleged
rioting in the Braddock steel mills
will be tried on Nov. 13. The So­
cialist party defense commitee, 205
Lyceum building1, .Pittsburgh, Pa.,
asks for funds to carry oh the de­
fense. Contributions should be sent
to this' address.
CITY OPERATES
JITNEY LINE
WEST NEWBERRY, Mass., Nov. 9
—The citizens are perfecting arrange­
ments to establishments to establish
a municipal Jltnejr line, as. a protest
(Tgainst 6-cent fares oji the trolleys,
recently, put, in force. The busses
are to connect: Haverhill West New­
bury, and Newburyport.
SISTERS—SUPT.
DE'NVER, Colo., Nov. 9.—Denounc­
ing the entire public school system
of this country a^ an. institution
which "gives a lot of us a job," John
M. Francis, superintendent of
schools, Columbus, O., was applauded
by 2,000 Colorado state educators. He
ad"ocated before the Colorado State
Teachers' association the abolition of
the grade system and advised instead
that the schools be divided in respect
to subjects only. "You say what I
advocate will tear down the whole
system," said Francis. "But* I say
that it is time to do so. The system
is crowded with fads and the most
good it serves anyway is to give a
lot of us a job. The three r's must
go," added Francis. "They are merely
incidentals in the modern system and
they are the force which is threaten­
ing to undermine the educational sys­
tem of the count y."
BOYS AND GIRLS
WIN THEIR STRIKE
NEW YORK, Nov. 9.—Eight hun­
dred boys and girls employed in the
necktie industry on strike for several
days, reached an agreement today.
The youngsters liave returned to
.work. They secured a reduction ip
hours and Increased wages. They
hours hereafter will be 54 per week
and time and half for overtime. Mini­
mum wage* for all .members of the
union will be $6 per week.
R. R. SHOPMEN
ISE
SEDALIA, Mo., Nov. 10.—Feder­
ated Shop Crafts employed on the
20 railroads included in Division No.
1 of the Railway Employes' Depart­
ment of the A. F. of L. have suc­
ceeded in securing new wage agree­
ments on the Missouri Pacific-Iron
Mountain and Southern, The Mis­
souri, Kansas and Texas, Chicago and
Alton, Denver and Rio-Grande, the
Moffat road, Chicago and Eastern Il­
linois and Rock Island.' Negotiations
^re still pending on the other roads
and an early adjustment is looked for
on most of them.
Aside from the adjustment of
schedules, the new agreements carry
with them a substantial increase in
wages, ranging from one to 2% cents
per hour.f The adjustment on the M.,
K. & T„ where the Shop Federation
includes only the four metal trades,
blacksmiths, boilermakers, machin­
ists, and Sheet metal workers, ranges
from one cent per hour to'13 cents
per hour. Hours will continue as at
present with an 8-hour day in round
houses and locomotive shops.
On the Missouri Pacific-Iron Moun­
tain system, the federated agreement,
which was signed Friday, August 27,
covers all shop crafts including
blacksmiths, -boilermakeijs, machin­
ists, sheet metal workers, carmenrand
painters. All crafts will receive an
increase of for
all mechanics and helpers and one
cent per hour increase for appren­
tices above jeldiu'stmgntJ
The*' ft'eW w^ge "'rate' J5 retroactive
and will date f£6m August 1, 1916.
The men effected by this increase
num'ber 5,541 who will receive more
than $425,000 annually in additional
wages.
The Rock Island railroad signed
for 2 cents* per hour over and above
adjustment, which is some cases
amounts to 14 cents per hour* The
new rate became effective September
15, 1916. On the Chicago and Alton
an advance of 2% cents per hour was
obtained, for mechanics and 2 cents
for apprentices, this is above all ad­
justments, the net increase ranging
from 2% cents to 19% cents per
hour.
URGES MUNICIPAL
SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 9.—A mu­
nicipal grocery store may be San
Francisco's answer to the present
high cost of living.
Supervisor Charles Nelson decided
today he would soon introduce an or­
dinance providing for the establish­
ment of a warehouse for distribution
of provisions at retail prices.
"A famine is facing the poorer
class in San Francisco by reason of
increases in food prices," saiJ Nel­
son. "I know of cases here where
families are actually going without
proper nourishment because of their
inability to pay the grocer and their
rent at the same time.
"Unless there is a speedy improve­
ment in conditions I propose to urge
establishment of a new city depart­
ment, a municipal grocery, if you
like. I-t would involve purchase by
the city of huge qualities of provi­
sions and holding them against pro­
hibitive prices that may develop.
These provisions could I then be sold
at rock bottom prices—the city aim­
ing to do nothing more than pay ex­
penses."
STREW TACKS ON
THE STREETS
ATLANTA, Ga.. Nov. 9.—Tacks
and broken glass are beilfg strewn
along the streets here in an effort to
put the jitneys off the streets. The
jitneys are doing a thriving business
since the car strike. Unionists claim
that agents of the street car com­
pany are responsible and have of­
fered a large reward for the arrest
^and conviction of the culprit.
SEATTLE MAY BUY
OWN POWER SYSTEM
SEATTLE, Wash., Nov.. 9.—Pur­
chase by Seattle of the light and
power system of the Puget Sound
Traction, Light and Power company
in Seattle and the company's power
plant at Snoqualmie Falls, represent
ii. an investment of $6,000,000, is
proposed. The move is suggested to
give the city a complete monopoly in
this field. The city's present electric
plants have a combined capacity of
13,400 kilowatts. The city light de­
partment now has 43,000 customer.
OTICI TEXTILE
E
MMNESQ£L__
•tor^
The strikers are members of the
United Textile Workers of America,
and were forced to suspend work
when the New York Mills corporation
refused to recognize their demands,
treat with their union or submit dif­
ferences to arbitration.
The corporation u?£d the usual
method of coercion, ejection from
company houses and the importation
of gunmen and thugs to intimidate
the workers. One of the union's or­
ganizers was kidnapped and badly
beaten by company thugs.
DODGE CO. FILES
SUIT AGAINST FORD
DETROIT, Nov. 9.—A temporary
restraining order, limiting the extent
of operations of the Ford Motor com­
pany and preventing the expenditure
of large sums for expansion, was is­
sued by Circuit Judge Mandell on pe­
tition of Dodge Brothers, Detroit,
auto manufacturers, who hold 10 per
cent of the stock of the Ford com­
pany. The petitioners seek to force
the Ford company to declare special
dividends, which, they assert, the
Ford company is earning. Instead of
putting the money back into the busi­
ness in extensions.
STRIKE, TOBACCO
TRUST FACTORY
ST, LOUIS, Nov. 9.—The 1,500
employes of the Liggett & Myers
company, known as the tobacco trust,
are on strike for a 10 per cent wage
increase and the reinstatement of a
number of the .workers who were dis­
charge! for attempting to organize
a union in the factory. There has
been considerable dissatisfaction in
the factory for months past and in or­
der to get relief from the continued
impositions practiced by the com­
pany's representatives and increased
wages they attempted to form a
union. When that fact was discov­
ered the discharges followed. A
large majority of the strikers are
women and girls.
SENATOR JONES RETURNS
.State Senator Richard Jones re­
turned to Duluth Monday from his
campaign In Michigan in excellent
health and spirits. Mrs. Jones ac­
companied the- senator. The sena­
tor toured Michigan ip behalf, of the
"drys."
C^goo
fcust always be intelligently in
formed o£ the movements of his
own kind.
IRON RANGES FOR WILSON
AT RATIO OF TWO TO ONE
In another exclusive interview with the Labor World, Chairman
Frank Makowski of the Democratic county committee, said today
that the chances of Wilson carrying this county by more than his
original estimate looked good.
"I predicted that Wilson would carry St. Louis county by 1,600
in la$t weeks issue of the Labor World. This was a conservative
estimate. I made an especial effort not to be extravagant in my state-i
ment.
"At this time, with only a few precincts missing, Wilson has a
lead of 1,200. I think that the other precincts will go solid for Wil­
son."
For the first time since 1896, St. Louis county has gone Demo­
cratic. At that time William Jennings Bryan carried the county.
UTICA, N. Y., Nov. 9.—The long
strike of nearly 3,000 men and
women textile workers has resulted
in a 10 per cent wage increase and
improved .working, conditions for
these" employes.
In addition to the-10 per cent wdge
increase the union is given recogni­
tion through a conjmittee all those
who were evicted will be moved back
to their tenants absolutely no dis­
crimination abolition of the objec­
tionable card system, which was one
of the worst abuses imposed on the
workers all workers to be reinstated
in one week and back on their old
jobs in four weeks. The suit brought
by the corporation for $25,000 dam­
ages against members of the union
will also be withdrawn.
Secretary-Treasurer Sarah A. Con
boy, of the United Textile Workers,
claims it is one of the greatest vic­
tories that organisation has ever won.
And adds: "Great' credit is due the
Utica Trades and Labor assembly for
their active and earnest interest in
this matter."
TWO CENTS.
The Republican county committee
ordered their telephone out early
Thursday morning and according to
rumor, preparations were made to
close the headquarters.
"The range district," said Harris
Bennett, "went at a ratio of two to
one for Wilson. I predicted thai the
range would go for Wilson in the
last week's Labor World, but I really
never expected that Wilson would
carry it by such a large majority."
Local Democrats are elated at
their victory in this county. Regard­
less of the result of the national
election, they say, the local victory
is a slap in the face of those who
have conducted a campaign of vil
lification
and
Wilson.
abuse against President
NEW YORK, Nov. 9.—Efforts are
being made by John A. Moffitt and
James A. Smyth, United States medi­
ators, to bring about a conference
between the representatives of the
striking street car men and the offi­
cials of the street car companies,
looking to a settlement of the strike.
The mediators are acting under in­
structions of Secretary of Labor Wil­
son, who sent them to investigate, on
request of Organizer Fitzgerald.
Street car service is very badly
crippled, and Organizer Fitzgerald
claims that there are still 11,048 men
on strike, and that only 110 have re-'
turned to work.
Governor Whitman refused to ren­
der any assistance when appealed to
on behalf of the strikers. He an­
swered by notifying Organizer Fitz­
gerald that he had referred his re­
quest to the Public Service commis­
sion, and there the matter rests for
the present.
7,
INEBSST
M'ALESTER, Okla., Nov. 9.
Seven thousand Oklahoma coal milk­
ers went on strike this afternoon, fol­
lowing failure of the. operators to
agree to a new wage 9cale. Union
officials counselled against violence.
Seventeen independent companies,
^employing 350 miners, signed the
scale and will continue working.
ELECTRICIANS WIN
EIGHT-HOUR FIGHT
ST. LOUIS, Nov. 9.—The 600 ma­
chinists employed by the Emerson.
Electric (Manufacturing company
have been granted the eight-Lour day
at the Bame rate of pay as was re­
ceived fcr the longer hours. The
agreement conceded to the Machin­
ists' union goes into effect on Novem­
ber lt5h.
The St. Louis Metal Ware company
also granted the eight-hour day,
which went into effect the first of
the month and carries with it a rate
of 50 cents per hour.
OBSESSED GIRL CURED
NEW YORK, Nor. ».—Once
afflicted with five personalities
four of which were abnormal,
Miss 'Doris Ftocher today lit*
inghappfly#ndapparently nor­
mally, freed from -r harden by
psychical treatment. Kindness
and suggestion -were used, ac­
cording to the American Society
of Bqrchical Besearclvtofree her
of the abnonnal personalities.
