V.'
MIGHT
EXTRA
vol. ot.-no. ci
'aujed troops
f. STRIKE AT GATES
OF CERNAVODA
Aim to Retake Bridge by
Attacking uast ana west
of Stronghold
j-
falkenhayn menaced
Idrar's Forces Press Powerful
(I Offensive in itcgion 01
i I Dorna Vntra
BUCHAKt-Oii ov. 11. ivrainio win
V frett battle raginir about Ccrnavoda
far posacooiun . .. o-
litre, the War Office today was un
anally brief In Us report on the situ
gUon In the Dobrudja.
TThe situation In the Dobrudja re
lion la unchanged," said the nn
Beaheement. "On the Danube the n
tay's artillery Is very nctlvc. 6 re
prised a small force which attempted
g landing at the mouth of the Alt
Blrer."
XONDON, Nor. 11. German trenches
trer front of 1000 yards were cap
tared by the British in storm attacks
on the Sommc front last night. This
Important success was announced by
tie War Office today.
' 'BERLIN, Nov. 11.
The capture of Rumanian positions
at the point of the bayonet and the tak
ing of 420 more Russo-Rumanian pris
oners were reported by the War Office
today. In Macedonia Serbian troops
penetrated advanced positions of the
gulgar-Germnn lines
, LONDON, Nov. 11.
1 The great battle between Ruseo-Rumanlan
forces and Mackensen'a troops In tho Dob
raj for possession of the bridge that
crosses the Danube at Cemavoda continues.
AdVtces today from" Bucharest. retrograd
tad Berlin regarding yesterday's fighting
emphasize this conflict ns the most Impor
tant operation of the day on any of the
many fronts.
Occupation of the Ounareav station, about
two miles due west of Cemavoda, as claimed
W retrograd and not denied from Berlin.
Wptars to have, given the Slavonic armies at
ut a temporary advantage In their cflorts
'press back ofenvetbp General Macken-
tee'i left flank, which rests on the Danube.
Wtltary esperja hero nay aglav auccessat
ntpoini .woukJvonanKO me complexion, or,
& Dobrudja front materially, jjylth great
Mivantare to'the Teutons.
JlUMlans are reported in strong force
abeut' Cemavoda. 'They are reported hur-
neaiy cringing up artillery tor the nnat
Wash.
I feeoorts of. sanguinary flihllne In this
teeUrappear to be borne out by other ro-
' pots to Petrograd of hundreda of dead
picked up' In territory from which Mao-
keosen'a forces have been hammered back.
t There was still some doubt hero as to tho
Ulirp fighting about fredcal. Both sides
balmid the advantage. The Berlin state
pent admitted the Transylvania-Rumanian'
armies adopted a strong offensive, but that
III attacks were repolled. Petrograd ad.
Vices said the Rumanians hao all but com
pleted envelopment of the Teutonic left
pany.
In. the territory about Dorna Vntra, In tho
Carpathian Mountains, Russian troops, ac
cording to Berlin, hae dev eloped a power
ful offensive. The Berlin announcement
fUaehes much Importance to their claim
liat terrlflo Austrian counter-attacks have
phud the Slavs from heights they took by
ptorm In three days of fighting ending Frl
foyi The menace a Russian victory would
to General Falkenhajn's rear at this
lnt has led to belief that the Teuton
armies will make a desperate stnnd.
1 General DrussllofTs armies, Berlin ad
ylces said today, were subjected to a-erles
ft ferocious wave attacks north of Barano
fleal, where heavy fighting Is going on for
pMeilon of railroad lines which connect
lth Minsk to the northeast and with Strut
fn to the southeast pf Baranovichi. It
;!'.'ttbl8 Point that Berlin reported herolo
rChlevements by soldiers und,r M.in. n.n.
t von Wyna and a regiment pi Jlranden
rgers, The Russians, according to Berlin,
Fr tweDt bai-ir ... .,
I finches after eight assaults.
rl!EJR00RAD' Nov- "-" ''"
let has mm. k.. ... . ..
'ami J, ,u ol lno H'avonlq
Ai . . ar" flsht,n '" " Dobrudja.
'am,. onnolmcement from the War
'W .ua5r nli tha fleet ha heavily bom-
" " iiumanlaft seaport of Constanza,
feting great damage.
lr!a??E:N0T " aenoral Mackensen'a re
Crn,J Dobrua Tom positions about
wods continues, wireless reports from
mL b.H H,rtl0n ' C"voda. leading
-il at ,he Teuton" nred th cy
L4U " tT. "" " The Bulgarian pop.
HTT.0'.1)ob reported fleelne to
" wrn border
information c7nTe(j In the foregoing
' .fr'Haatd on r. your. Column .,
THE WEATHER,
Pnj?tr a cm
JMftlphia and vicinity-Fair
1 , nodwate variable winds,
1 WrYtir ..
I VVtV.'.V" J'f!5-w.JMoon fl... . B so
"""SMS SSL.
'&ffis?BLi:9tt
s. T-.. P W
I Ml
Euening
ojs-raATfc
f
iu
PENN TEAM READY
FOR" CRUCIAL TEST
WITHDARTMOUTH
Folwell Has Perfected Trick
Plays, but Hopes to Save
Them for Michigan
RECORD CROWD TO ATTEND
How Perm and Dartmouth
Line Up for Today's Game
,.tr. ef p.
J ..,.....,,
Jfft tiM
f iS !i .'f" "'1 IIUMO
Dartmnalh .
lJUonolt
ntinn
rtlT
. .r.nrr , . . tiui
rlSht Cimra . . .miHBitriMii
rliht tfLI Trlrr
,. rljtM rnd Kmrrr
qnartrrhark CnnnrM
Irft halthark ..Can. Orrrlnh
right tinlfbark .. ..Tbrlj.thf r
lutlhark lluhnm!
U?!- Wnemn O'llrlcn. TulUj CrowrllV
NKarthmore. lime of quarter 15 mlnuln.
Iame railed at t p. m.
llrr?aae,.
,111V, , , ,
Mlllfr
lirjant...,
Ofrr "
llllm. ,
.in.
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
"Bob" Folncll'a fishllng team Is at the
turning point of th season. A lctory
ocr Dartmouth's cleen this nftcrnoon will
mean that tho season probably will be
closed In a blazo of glory, as neither Cor
nell nor West Virginia Weslejan has shown
enough to warrant tho prediction that they
will trouble the Redmond Blue, while Michi
gan may or may not bo strong, ns the
teams beaten by the Wolverines, for the
moat part, hnvo been of unknown quantity,
barring Syracuse, which has been tho great
est disappointment of tho season.
Today's game will start at 2 p. m.
Folwell's team Is In better shape than
two weeks ago, when Warner's wonderful
Pitt eloven beat It, but tho Red and Blue
will not meet such a powerful opponent this
afternoon. Little can bo gained by a com
parison of the scores mads by the two
teams, an there Is no direct way of finding
out tho relative strength unless It Is on
the form shown by Penn against Pitt,
Syracuse against Dartmouth ond Pitt
against Syracuse.
Penn nppears to have a shade tho best
of It, In drawing a comparison by these
results, but as the games were played over
a stretch of threo weeks, condition may
have a lot to do with tho form shovn by
all of tho teams. It Is certain that Penn
Is In better shape and It playing better
football than at any time this season, whll
Dartmouth Is not as strong nor In as good
physical condition as when It met Prince
ton. It Is said that Dartmouth has perfected
Interference like that of Pittsburgh. It
thla Is bo, Penn "will have trouble stopping
the big Green team, as Cavanaugh always
has 'uncovered an. excellent. forjyaxd-jas
hnranacirtnflempofJant gameiTof the
season. With Pitt Interference, Dart
mouth's offense will be fully fifty per cent
Btronger than It was against Princeton, as
Petin will be compelled to weaken tho sec
ondary defense, but the llanoverltes cannot
penetrate the .Penn defense Vithout thla
combination of assets.
Penn. -will test Dartmouth'.? defense with
a better' assortment of trick plays, and a
more varied attack than tho New Kngland
ers have faced thus far, and unless weak
spots In the line and mediocre secondary
Continued on rase Fifteen. Column Six
WILL CONFER ON MINING LAWS
State College' Dean Named to Repre
sent Pennsylvania
STATH COLLEGE. Pa., Nov. 11. Dr W.
R. Crane, dean of the School of Mines at
the Pennajhanla State College, has been
appointed a special commissioner by Gov
ernor Martin a. Brumbaugh to confer with
representatives from other coal-mining
Ktatea regarding the unification of the min
ing laws of the United States. The con
ference will be held In conjunction with
the annual meeting of the American Min
ing Congress at Chicago November 13 to 16.
Dean Crane will reprerent tho State of
Pennsylvania at the meeting of the national
organization of mining experts.
C
IMrLLATJKLPIirA, SATURDAY, XOVJSMDISR 11, 101(5
toJbaer
NIGHT
EXTRA
CortmnttT, 1010, at rtia ream l.arota Commnt
W qHsb iS&
r9aBaaaaaaaaaaB0BBaaaH
MAY HE WAR SKOItCTARV
Vnnce C. McCormick is busy iicny
inu the report, however, snyliiR ho
is content with private life. The
rumor started on tho hools of tho
story that Secretary Raker in.
tends to resign.
WHSON ALREADY
PLANS TO ADJUST
EIGHT-HOUR ISSUE
President's Mind Busy Even
as He Rests After Hard
Campaign
TWO-WEEK REST URGED
WILLIAMSTOWN, Mass. Nov. 11
President Wilson, glad that the election Is
oter, today took the first thorough rest he
hai had since tho opening of the campaign
Ho drove through tho hills and planned to
seo a part at leaBt of the football game this
afternoon between Williams and tho State
Agricultural College.
The President leaves at 5:25 on his re
turn Journey to RhlneclInT, N. Y., where he
boards the Mayflower for a crutse down the
rher to New York. Ho expects to go
athoro Sunday for church and an automo
bile rldo, and will leavo that afternoon for
"Washington by train," arriving about -
o'clock.
FRIENDS URGE REST
T)ie President's friends are strongly urg
ing him to take an extended cruise on the
Mayflower or go away somewhere for a
two weeks' rest before taking up his ofn
cliil duties again and launching his con.
templated program In Congress. They say
the strain of the campaign has prevented
him from getting the real rest he needed
at Shadow Lawn
The President Is delighted In the hope
of haWng a working majority In both houses
of Congress and Is already planning legis
lation. First of all will probably come
completion of tho program set forth to set
tle the threatened railroad strike of tho
autmn. Immediate action will bo urged on
this In his first message to Congress.
President Wilson made his first public ut
terances since his re-election hero yesterday
A little speech mado to a crowd of citizens
and college students who had gathered
at the home of Francis Bones Sayre, his
son-in-law, to welcome him to Williams
town contained no trace of exultation or
of assured lctory. Later In the eenlng
he talked in a similar eln to a big crowd
which paraded the streets with a band and
torches to celebrate his triumph Tho note
which ran through both was one of relief
that with the campaign oer tho nation
could settle down In a common spirit of
patriotism, devoid of partisanship, to con
sfler the problems before It.
HUGHES URGED
Tb CONCEDE HE
Hitchcock and Perkins Ask
Him to Admit Wil
son Won
.
W1LLCOX OPPOSES PLAN
G. O. P. Managers Await tho Of
ficial Returns Before Decid
ing Question of Contests
CONCORD, N. II.. No. 11. Presi
dent Wilson hns carried New Hamp
shire by 71 otes on the basis of the
best available returns todny. Ward
Two, Kcene, where the first olficinl 're
turns said Wilson had rccclwd no otc,
has been heard from, and Wilson's
total of 135 hns been recorded there
officially. The apparent total otc of
the State: Wilson, 13,785; Hughes,
43,711.
N12W YOntv. Nov 11 Formal acknowl
edgment of President 'Wllioni lctory by
Charles 12ans Hughes Ami tho Republican
managers la expected soon, according to the
late doxelnpmcnta In tho political situation.
This acknowledgment probably will bo In
tho form of a telegram of congratulation
from the defented Republican candldato to
hl- Democratic rhal.
It Is said that Frank H Hitchcock nnd
Cloorgo W Tcrklns already have advised
Mr Hughes to concede tho election Wil
liam n. Wl'.cox, national chairman, has
opposed such action and has Induced Mr.
Hughes to wait.
There may be no content of the result
from the Republican side At present the
Republican managern nro waiting for tho
ofilclal .tabulation of the ote beforo taking
nny declshe steps.
With tho President's popular, majority
unofficially estimated nt moro than 400,000
votes the possibility existed today that his
te In tho electoral college might h In
creased from 17: to 28S Tho nddltlon of
New Hampshire and Minnesota In tho Dem
ocratic column would gho President Wil
son nn Increase of sixteen electoral otes.
So far Mr. Hughes has 243 electoral -votes
assured. Ho carried seventeen States, ac
cording to the estimates now nt hand.
LARQnST TOTAL VOTE
The candidates together polled n total of
lJi.llCTi-oiMtb6larcesttrVrer-T?'
corded In nny election In this country. The
welling of the vote this yenr was caused
by two things:
Tho vote of ths women and the keen
national Interest In tho Issues.
It Is estimated that the President re
ceived approximately S.553,000 of the popu
lar vote. Mr. Hughes got about 8.160.000
The President polled about 2,270.000 more
votes on Tuesday than ho did four years
ago Mr. Hughes received more votes than
Mr. Taft nnd Colonel Roosevelt combined
In 1912.
Keen Interest centers on tho possibilities
In Minnesota nnd New Hampshire. DIs
patches from St Paul today Bald that it
was considered strongly probable that the
soldier voto would give the State to Presl
dent Wilson. Without the vote of the
guarcinmen. Mr. HuglieH has a lead of be
tween 500 and 600
A telegram from Ran Francisco said that
tho President's lead In that State had been
Increased to approximately 3285. eighteen
precincts were still missing when this com
pllatlon was made.
Concord, reported .that, with nv. r.in.
missing and with certnln errors rectified,
me i-resiuent was leading In New Hamp.
shire by seenty votes. These flinr. t...
ever, were unofficial
Tho Socialist and "Prohibition tickets
Continued on race Two, Column SU
REPUBLICANS CONTEND
NOW FOR SPLIT VOTE OF
CALIFORNIA ELECTORS
Wilson's Present Lead 4000.
G. O. P. Leaders Blame Loss
on "Treachery" of
Progressives
JOHNSON SNUB INCIDENT
SAN FRANCISCO, Cal.f Nov, 1 J. Until
the official canvass of the vote In all coun
ties In California has been completed, the
Republican leaders In the State will not
abandon hopo that Charles Kvans Hughes
may receive at least some of California's
thirteen electoral votes.
In the face of returns from all but a
few scattering and remote precincts which
gave President Wilson a lead of about four
thousand, Chester H. Rowell, Republican
State charman, and his associates made
this statement today. They said that, while
they did not deny the general accuracy of
the unofficial counts, the Importance of Cali
fornia In determining the whole national
election made It the part of wisdom to
withhold final judgment, -
Meantime a political tempest lias been
stirred up In California Republican circles
by the loss of the State to the Democrats.
Chairman Howell, In a statement published
today, declared that JIughes was defeated
because he had failed to convince a large
minority of the Progressives that he was
the man who should lead them.
"JnohUaU of the trip of Hughes to Call
forafal." h tU, "when )m vu pfvat4
JEJEJtt?
M'CORMICK MENTIONED
FOR WAR SECRETARY
Report That National Chairman
Will Succeed Newton D.
Baker
NEW YORK, Nov, 11. Political gossip
has It pretty well settled that Vance C. Mc
Cormick, Democratic national chairman. Is
to bo tAken Into President Wilson's Cabinet
as Secretary of War to succeed Newton D.
Baker, whose resignation has been rumored.
When this subject was broached to Mr,
McCormick he followed the usual custom
of successful campaign managers and vigor
ously denied that he had any Intention or
knowledge of becoming one of Mr,vWllson's
official family. He utoutly Insisted that ho
Intended to return to Harrlsburg to look
after the management of his newspaper.
Tho President thinks very highly of Mr.
McCormlck'a ability as an executive, as
was evinced when Mr, Wilson forced the
Democratlo convention In St. Louis last
June to accept him as the national chair
man. The closest personal relations exist
between the two, and the President's Im
plicit reliance on the Judgment of the Penn
sylvania editor during the campaign Is
cited as proof that he will ask Mr. McCor
mick to become one of his official advisers.
After HiB Election
ON Monday the Evening Ledger
will discuss editorially the causes
and effects of the election results.
As an aid to clear vision of events
political, past and to come, it will
be worth your attention, Order from
your newsdealer today,
Euenfng Hefcger
mMm
THREE FURNACE MEN
HURLED TO DEATH IN
P0TTST0WN BLOW-OUT
One Victim a Philadelphian.
Four Others Injured While
Placing a Manhole in Posi
tion at Steel Plant
GAS-PIPE LEAK BLAMED
.POTTSTOWN. Pa., Nov. 11 The blow
Ini; out of a manhole on a' hot-air lino nt
stack -A, of tho listern Steel Company,
till borough, this morning caused the death
of threo furnace men. Kour cthero were
seriously Injured and one may die. Tho
dead:
Daniel Schaeffer, twenty years sjld, of
Douglassvllte, married, with a two-day old
child.
William Myers, forty years old, of Phila
delphia, William McClnnls, married, thirty-four
years old, pf I'ottstown.
The Injured are In In Bitting, Harvey
Mnslnblgler. David Bishop and Frank Shar
vis of Pottstown. Bishop may die. The
Injured were taken to the Pottstown Hos.
pltal
Stack A had been shut down on Friday
morning for the . rellnlng" of the hot-air
line leading to the big furnace. Workmen
rellned the pip and then started to place
a manhole over the opening of the pipe
through whlth they had gained entrance
to the alr-llne pipe. A nine-Inch brick wall
had been built at the end of the pipe and
the last bolts were being placed in the
manbote when a terrific explosion occurred,
0clU of the eoffUMNy uy the sxsla.
mm J" j rr" J. "J " m
QUICK NEWS
SCHOLASTIC FOOTBALL SCORES
1ENN.
DARTMOUTH
ITARVMU)
I'KINCCTOM .
COUNTLI.
rUCIIIGAN
YAL1S
UROWN
PENN STATE.
LEHIGH
v -
OOO
0.0 7
OO 3
OOO
C O
O 15
3 3 0
O O 7
O 3
O O
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Plsnllco voce, 2-year-olds, 7 ftu longs Fairy Wand. 107.
Keogh, 95.50. $3.G0, $!J 70, won; Hnivest King, U.r. Ambiose, 311.OO.
"i..T. feconrf- Onurtehir. 110, llaynrs. $:i.!20. third. Tim-. 1.27 2 5.
Second rimllco lace, Oreen Spring Vallry stecplechpsc, l-yeai-ohlsnml
up, a 1-3 miles StonewooJ. Ml. Knynes, ?7.aOF?3.2(). 2 00.
won; Shajpshootor. 130, Keating, 1J3.70, 2.00, second; Vlfh, 130,
Tucliey, $3 20, tltlid. Time, 4,r2.
Thiul l'imllco ince, Plkobvlllo handicap, 3-yeni-olds and up, O
fiulongs J. J. Ult, 111, Klcoger, ?0.SO, $5.00, $3.70, won; Jncoba,
102, J. McTngBtut, ?0.50, ?1.CP, second; Water Lady, 100, Ambiose,
ipl.-lO. third. Time, 1.13.
FALLS FORTY FEET TO DEATH
A fall of forty foet from n ciane at the Mldvale Steel Works
caused the rlcnth today in tho Oounantown Hospital of Sheridan Hun
nickor, fifty ypftis old, ol 0187 Cleveland avenue. Ilunsickorh bad:
was bioken.
. fj i J" ' !.' "'(Wu.4 ' ' "-.
5Hi-
$5,000)000 PETROLEUM CORPORATION .INCORPORATED
DOVEIl. Del., IJov. 11. Tho Grent Wefetem Tetjolcum Corpora
lion, to operate oil lofineiles, was incorpoiated here today with a
capital fetnek of $5,000,000. The incorporators are C. Sharp, A.
Schacfer nnd I. Moni, Chicago, 111.
MINEHS ASK WILSON TO PltOIIE LIVING COST
COI.UMHUS, O., Nov. 11. Ohio State mlno workers through their executive
board today sunt icsolulloni to 1'iosldent Wilson and Governor Willis demanding
national and Stnto investigations of tho high cost of living.
DIAZ FORCES CAPTURE TEIIAUNTEPEC CITY
PK.N'HACOl.A, Tin., Nov. 11. Mexican forces under Uener.il I"ell Diaz have
captured Tehauntepec City and uro Im eating Sullna Cruz, nays a wlioless leport
received nt tiie Government station hero today. Hotli cities aro In tho State of
Onxaca. Other foicen of Diaz are opeiatlng on the Gulf of Mexico sldo of the
republic.
rillCE ONE OESf '1
TRANSIT WORK
FOR $15,000,000;
IMMEDIATE AD
City Will Start Two!
Blocks of System
at Once
TJTrAT C?rn OtTTirnTrvXTC?
PART OF FIRST PLAN
Director Twining Expeciijf
Operations to Begin.
- Early Next Year
LABOR FOR THOUSANDS!
Cars Being Dctourcd Now to Aid
Preliminary Survey for
Tubes S
Transit Director William S. Twlnlnr IH
announce within the next few days com
pletion of plana for two large subway eee-
tlons of the city's hlgh-vneed system. The .
, . . . .... ..." 1
umo wncn contracts win tie awaraea nas
not yet been definitely determined, but It Jj
will be early enough to Insure the beginning ,
of work on both contracts early In 117.
Doth contractu. It Is understood, will ba iA
for WArlt nn thA XmA ntrj.t mihwav aul yas
the subway delivery loop. Although the
Transit Department will make publlo ,.ne
figures ns to the estimated cost of the work i
about to begin, It Is certain that the figure
..lll t. l.. .. ... ,r AAA AAA
win ua ttuao lu fiu,uuv,vuv. v F
The execution ot the two contracts will
mean that about one-quarter of tho $57,100,-'' J
000 transit loan Is to be translated tnta f
,. .j-j?..
nctual work on the city's big development!
program. Further. It Mill mean the
plo)ment of thousands ot men in varjoual
trades and Industries, thereby Insuring M
Philadelphia's economic prosperity lrre
tle of war orders.
.M
rttrnuiN .uvu ai'tii.u
. js
Tne selling of Z. 500,000 In transit boiwHi
two weeks ago has elven the Transit De.
partment unlimited credit to let contracts!
up to ths full amount of the transit lean
JbillJhaBcarcttyoJC, Jabor apd,ih,(upr-.
ailing high prices of materials arenow.
the only factors which Will bo taken:!
consideration In rusblng forward the tn
program. It was made plain at the depart
ment today. 'a'1'
....&.
in aactitton to wese two contraca, rer .ji
which the work Is to begin the first of , '
next year, It was announced, plana have
about been completed on two other sections ' -O
of the high-speed system. When bids for
these will bo let It could not be learned, but
from now on the program of the Tranilt
Department, it was said, will be action and
speed. f
Construction work and the completion of ?.
the plans for all operations contemplated J
unacr 1110 new uiKn-apecu aysiem is 10 eo .-
rushed forward at all nosslble srjeed. It was 'Si
declared. Irrespective of the negotiations
oer he lease of the lines to the Philadel
phia Transit.
Director Twining would make no comment
today upon tho first publlo hearing on the
DANIELS SUMMONS SHIPBUILDERS FOR CONFERENCE
WASHINGTON, No. 11. Secretary of tho Navy DanlolB today called all ship
building firms that Hubmltted bids for tho construction of battleships, destroyers nnd
submarines to meet lilm on Wednesday In tho Navy Department to muke alterations
In their bids. HpeelllcatloiiH In tho bids must bo altered befoio contracts can be let.
HEART AND LUNG DISEASES DEATH'S CHIEF WEAPONS
WASHINGTON, Nov, 11. Heart (liseaso, tuberculosis and pneumonia killed one
third of nil pcrsoni who died In the United States during 1915, uccordlng to Census
Bureau statistics announced today. Twclvo other causes, with Ilrlglit's disease,
acute nephritis and cancer leading, wero responsible for virtually nil of the remain
ing two thirds. Suicide took 11,216 lives during the QarlC7 to every 100,000,
DEFUNCT PITTSBURGH BANK TO PAY CLAIMS
PITTSIJUIIGH, Nov, 11. Stockholders of tho Tirst National nanlc of Asplnwnll,
which failed recently, haxe been assessed 100 per cent by Receiver John I. Proctor.
The capital was $25,000. Claims are belnrt filed and It Is probable that a dividend
of at least 25 per cent will be pa(d next month. '
SOUTH CAROLINA TROOPS QUELL STRIKE RIOTS
COLUMBIA, S. C Nov, 11. State authorities today ordered out live companies
of coast artillery Jo preserve order and assist In evicting strikers fiom tho cottuges
of the Gluck nnd Equinox mills, Anderson, 8. C, whero disofder has run riot for
the last few days. Four moro companies of naval militia wero ordered held In
readiness for an emergency.
CANADA'S GOVERNOR GENERAL SWORN IN
HALIFAX, N. 8., Nov. 11, The Duke of Devonshire arrived here today and
was sworn in ns Canada'a Governor General.
NAVY SUPPLY SHIP CRIPPLED OFF SANTO DOMINGO
WASHINGTON, Nov. 11. The navy supply ship Culgoa struck an obstruction
off Puerta Plata, Santo Domingo, and lost lior propeller, a radio message nald today.
The navy tugs Perry and Potomua liuvo gone, to her assistance.
GERMANS WRECK MONSTER BATTLE AEROPLANE
BERLIN, Nov. 11. Reports from the western front printed In Borlln news,
papers today tell of a monster battle ueroplane which waa shot down by the Ger
mans during yesterday's fighting. The Huperalrflghter was one of seventeen brought
down. It was provided with two motors, three machine guna and had places for
three passengers. It was taken undamaged
ARABIA PROCLAIMS INDEPENDENT KINGDOM
WASHINGTON, Nov. 11. The State Department lias received a cable from
Mecca purporting to announce officially the establishment ot an Independent king
dom of Arabia.
GERMANS BRING DOWN TWO ALLIED PLANKS
merlin, Kev, 11. Two mer Allied "rrrrlTmar tea vw ajMst law fey
Mavnr'a ordinnnce emhndvlncr n rirnft n
the lease, which was held yesterday after-5?,
noon ueiuro 1110 comumeu finance an i
Mireei jiauways committees or councils. '-"a
' ORDINANCK TO STAND
iimtt-mta firianera anil Mn.llRaallB at.
1 uilli.1 ww biiw1iAi.11 Hiiu flUMtUl41l.!UIlB CV jd
BareKuard the interests of the city were uj ,?
b" tn itvuitmisiium ill ilia 1,-uufH fir
the hearing, but these will be taken Up 4
present by the councllmanle commltteM.,
rather than by the transit department Un4t J
further hearings have been held It Is net .3
likely that any changes In the draft ot tha
ordinance as It Is now before Councils wlH
be made.
'That the administration leaders are weH
satisfied with the way the ordinance was ttrJfi
celved by the publlo at the hearing hI
Indicated by Chairman Uaffnev. of ths '
Finance Committee, who presided at tlvj
hearing. Mr. OafTney pointed out that the
were no objections to the essential point.
In the lease. The modifications 8UggtU41
he said, would be given proper con
atlon,
Announcement was also made at
Transit Department today that on T'qnlij"
morning the work of carrying the Broad
street tube under the present Market street
subway at South Penn Square and Broad
street would begin, Thla morning the
Philadelphia rtap'd Transit Company bga-
rerouting the subwayurface cars frpm
tube to Mar'tet street between 15:45
5:15 a. in. to aid the contractors In
paring the preliminary work.
Monday morning Ave parallel tunaa
be bored from the present excavation
the south plaza pf City Ilall directly
the present Market street subway wllri
begun. These tunnels will be six fet
and extending from the floor of ths pr
Philadelphia Rapid Transit tuba to.
of forty-fly tptt
Wopden support abnllar to the
used, la ml). -wlH be .employed until
five ii IjUftiya., hea aarrHU xhHIi
em limit ef the 'Market a4t tut.
crete walla, feuf Wtn tlekoeaa, wtu .
um pi. rvuen h are oompleUtl 1
gflrfWr will be Inserted running
the rMtnt Marktatret tube and M 1
angles toy toe five concrete walla ti
The oottltlon of Xhia wejrti wlH Isvm
Martut atrt line tMUtw
ppi' BgpHl'W' '
