THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and much cooler to-day and to-morrow;
strong west winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 60; lowest, 47.
Detailed weather, mall and marine report on pae IS.
'I?
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 72.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1916. Copyright, 1916. bv the Bun Prlnttnp and Publtthing A$tocin(tcn.
ONE CENT
In Oreater New York, i Elsewhere
Jersey Cltr and Newark. I TWO CKXTrl.
5$tm.
G. 0. P. LEA DERSt
unMT nnNTUQT
nun i wiuuui
HONEST RESULT
Charles K. Hughes Colliers
With Party Chiefs on
Possible Action.
HKCOGXIZK WILSON
PROBABLY ELECTED
California. Xo. Dakota and
Now Mexico Vote May
Bp Canvassed.
MINNESOTA SEEMS
REPUBLICAN BY 700
Pipsidont May Have 27li
Electoral Votes to 255
for Governor.
. j
I
Ch.Ule. K. Hughes and tile Itepubll-1
. , .... . 1
can leaders recognize that Piealdcnt
Wilson has been reelected If the vote
In the doubtful States waa honestly
nut and accurately counted, l.'ntll tho
omplete honesty and accuracy of tho
... .. . .... . .
ifttirns vvmcn snow mui wic i-reamem t
has carried California. North Dakota
and New Mexico tire demonstrated they
decline to concede the election and Jo
live tip hope.
It Is lor tliln teuson that Mr. Hughe
has withheld the usual congratulations
tint go from tho unsuccessful to the
successful candidate for tho Prcsl
iitncy. Mr. Hughes and his adviser
mado It plain yesterday that their
point of view Is not that of bad losera
hut simply that of men who feel that
more time must bo had to prove up the
vot.
They do not want to rush Into con
tMts out of mere partisan disappoint
ment, and they ngree that a demand for
i secured that fraud was prnctted or
thai glaring errors were made In hasty
tabulations and trunsnilslons of the vote
in the Wales that dually gave the e'.cc
'Ion to Mr. Wilson.
Leader Confer Willi Mr. Hushes.
As the result of several conferences
held yesterday and last night, confer
nces In which Mr. Hughes participated
and In which his opinion was dominant,
it was ogreed by the Republican leaders
that nothing should be done hastily and
that every moe that might stir up 111
feeling or bitterness lie avoided except
m the best of grounds.
Yesterday morning Chairman Wlllcox
tlked over the situation with George
W 1'erktnB. George W. Wlckersham, who
iill direct the legal moves If they are
1 to he rinde, Herbert Parsons. Charles
B. Warren of Michigan and .Senator
lo'.in W. Weeks of Massachusetts.
In the afternoon Mr. Wlllcox went to
!te Hotel Astor and had a long talk
-Ith Mr Hughes, after which the con
ence nim resumed. laat evening
isre Has .1 third consultation. As the
ult of all this It was decided, with
I' Hughes's approval, to employ eoun
si in I allfnrnla. New Mexico. North
i .ota, .Now llampshlie and Minnesota,
-ie there U a possibility that Mr.
izh' right have been Imnded, and
iistriirt counsel to seek evidence of
.kM' otlng and of Inaccurate counting
ihee Stales. Further, the lawyers
tamed by the National Committee are
lifted to scriitlnlio the official can-
inc of (he vote and to lie on the
.! i re that errors are caught and
( 'e,l
I
California tiilr la Snsplclons.
T nt i s far as the Ilepubllcan lead
s Intend tu go at present. They be
th vote In California Is open to
ifn. ion If for no other reason than
at Senator-elect Hiram Johnson re
H n plurallt of more than 200,(100
h 1 Mr Hushes was defeated by prob
bi 3 Sun The dlorepancy casts doubt
the inedibility of tho returns, and
f doubt Is especially strong aa re
.ardi the vote of Ban Francisco.
Tb are Inclined to believe also that
hf omclsl canvass of the vote of North
'"altota will show a result more favor
ble t Mr. Hughes. New Mexico seems
recoverable, hut, nevertheless, the same
'e unions will be taken in that Htate.
" -ourse, efforts will be made to pro.
" ' ll Hiirfhes's lead In Mlimei-ota and
" - e Hun ii sqiiatii deal 111 New llamp
c where there wete extraordinary
-it us from what had been expected,
"a t ic fare of the returns the 1'rral-
i.,is carried California by about
Sw Mexico by about 1,300, North
" ii.i h about i.iioo and New llamp
abolition, Mr. Hughea seems to
ii i Itil Minnesota by about "to.
1 i fiirnia 'j30,ioi) votes were cast; In
Mi Men, about 50,000 ; in North
ii anoiil ItiH.iifMi; n New lluinp
.iiniiii Ml. nun, and In .Minnesota,
a' ? .;, you.
sinii incnl h ti, l, I'. Chairman.
'" ' an Wlllcox prepared a state
' '' eiing the decision reached by
' M isn' H iiiiiI the leaders and made It
tier submitting It to Mr. Hughes.
e the vote Is as close as that
"i hi sevaial States It may well
' imiti'ilal changes will result
i" olllclal count. We owe It t
' "ii'iy to take all neceesarjs steps
-" Mi.it an honest and an exact
I I he votes Is made,
must bo borne In mind that the
' thus far announced from most
1 ,i r In most cases unofficial and
tie 'hanged bv the. olllclal count
r 'I " tile laws of tnone Htutea.
' ilurliic thene iinolllrlul compiita
e-terdny California mistakes
' 1 on were announced from that
o.itiTlally changing the tlgutes
' 1 y given. It Is common expert-
' ii the result of the official count
.i wnis varlea from the leturnn
' mnuuiiced. All that we desire Is
anfiaucit on fourth
M'CORMICK HINTED
FOR WAR SECRETARY
Report That National Chair
tiiiui Will Bp SiurcoHsor
of linker.
A KKOHOAXIZEO CAMNKT
s.1,1 II I". 1 1..I ... I
.'i iiuiiiin BVril llllll HIIIIISWII,
Tumulty tiiul Hublcc Are
Mputioiipil.
Political gossip jesteula had II
pretty well settled tlmt Vance C. Mc
Cormlek. Democratic National Chair
man. In to be taken Into President Wll
oii'h Cabinet a Secretnr,y of War to
succeed Newton I), Maker, who has nu
tiautiotd that ho will resign Maioh t
When this subject was broached to
Air. McCormlck lie followed tlio usual
custom ol successful campaign mana
gers nml vlgolously denied (hut he had
any Intention or knowledge of becnm
tnar one of Mr. Wilson's official family
He stoutly Insisted that lie Intended to
it-turn to Hurrlsburg to look after 111
management of his newspaper
Hut the uiiderKrniind political cut
renin yesterday Inured Incessantly on
this subject and In many quarters It
wan regarded an icusnnnbl certain that
Mr. McCormlck would hi. nfftied the
place, whether In- accepted II or not
The President think very highly of
Mr. MeCormlok's ability a an oxecu-
live, iih evinced when Mr. Wilson
forced the Democratic convention In pit.
Louis last June to accept lit m an the
National Chairman. The ilimc.it per
aonal rclntlotiM exist between the two.
SHIFTS IN THE CABINET '
HaHer.
lirramry, llanlrls. Hrdflrld
nml Vti-Ailon Mar llrllrr. I
WistriNOToN. Nov in. A renrg.ml..i
Hon of I'resldent Wilson's Cabinet Is
exiiecte, to come with hli" InauKUtntlmi
for a second term.
It Is known that the President has
felt more than once durlux his iiilinliiis.
Uatlon that he was handicapped by one
or two nf his Cabinet ministers. It l
tielleied Wl.lt Joseph P. TlllllUltV. the
President's etllclent secretnrj, vv.'.l K
into the new Cabinet If lie wWhejt tlie
advancemint. Ha has been mentlon.il
for many other positions, Including the
vacant place In the ileneral Appialsers
Hoard In New York, which I pr.ictk'nll
a life position. Becietnry Tumulty l
not looking fur a federal Job, for In-'
has many attractive offers In private
life. It is known msltlvely that he de.
cllneil nu offer within a few months to
ls-come vice-president of one of the
e
largest Insurance
iurance companies In Vciv
York nt n aatary-ffryT r,,rT, nfnniinr.. TnTT rn In t e ,,or.
l.nnalna t lleioalii.
Se.-retary Lansing, It ts x.i clc.l, 'v'l,
remain at the head of the Stale Depart
ment. This Is geneially accepted here.
Theie Is n lot of liiteiestlug gossip
uluutl tl,n r,,l,ir ,,f v:,..,,.,. ... 1I-1.1
He has beet, one of the President's '
closest advisers. That he will continue
to be a Cabinet olllcer If he deal cs s
conceueil. bur tbete U ii lioilnt, th'.t if
he remains its Secretary of the Tre.i.
ury It will be only for a part of the
administration and that he will either
go to the bend of a big banking Insti
tution or enter tho race for Hoveinor of
New York at the next election. Score,
tary MoAdoo has been oredlteit with
Presidential aspiration. The coventor
ship of New York would be a stepping
atone.
That Secretary llaker will go Is con
cede(. Hut as to Secretary Daniel re
tiring there Is a difference of opinion.
(resiiir- .May (ie (Int.
Attorney-(!eneral (Ireiorv 1 ih..k- ...
retire und bis plaro might be taken by I
the present Solliitor-Oenernl, John W. second stm-.v rooms, where she went for
Davis of West Vliglnla, Mr. tlregory ""ii" valuables She was luought down
may be appointed to the vacancy In the a laditei, and (hat section of the second
Federal Circuit Court of Appeals'. Again, Hour caved In so soon n flerwurd that
Franklin K, Lane, Secretary of the in. 1 Tom Murray, a tilen Cove flioniaii, was
teiior and one of the most popular mem- " "' " bilek.
bers of the Cabinet, might bo mlvanoed ! Mr Woolworth war p.11 tlcularly nnx
to this place, with the prospect of up. Imis almtlt his books, nud was grieved to
pointmcnt to the I'rilteil stales Supiemo barn that fevvif them weie snvid
Court betirh before the end of the d- !n,"'Vi organ built Into the Woolwortli
ministration to succeed .Ttii-t li-r .Mc- music room Is 11 total losf
Krmia, now imst the age of letltenient, "v "''"' '0lig to the nil fur 1I10
Secretary lledfleld of the Depai tnient ' season it. 11 week or eo," Mr Woolwurth
of Commerce Is expected to go. lie has,
been a source of much embarrassment
to the Administration, It has ben sug
gested that In view of the petformance
of the State of New Hampshire In the
elections the President might put
In the Cabinet (Jeorge Huhlee. who was
reiected bv the Senate as 11 merohee nt
the Federal Trade Commission. '
If Secretary Lane is made Attorney-1
nenerai it is expected tnat secretary
Houston of the Department of Agricul
ture would succeed hlin. Secretary Will
lam B. Wilson of the Department of
Labor Is believed to be certain to re
main If he desires to do so. Postmaster
General Hurleaon has not always been
In accord with his chief, but he lias been
a very Important reliance of the Presi
dent In matters relating to piactlcal
politics and If ho desires to remain II is
assumed that ho ran do so.
John W, Kern, one nf the President's
close advi.-ers, who was defeated for re
election as Senator from Indiana, Is
mentioned for I'ahlnet honors, Senator
Johnson of Maine is another who may
come in for favorable consideration,
G0ETHALS ASSAILS CRITICS.
Telia "Kiioit l( Alia" Canal Slides
Will He Stopped,
Wahiiinoton, Nov. 10. The prediction
that earth movenientH In lliu Panama
Canal will be overcome "finally and for
nil time" Is reatllrmed by Major-Gen,
flocthals, Governor of the Canal Zone,
In his annual report made public to-day
by the Wur Department, This will be
accomplished, Gen. Ooethols Nils, "not
withstanding tlie calamity howlers and
In spile of the disastrous predictions of
the 'know it nils'"
The General says that many false re
porta have been published.
"Such reports are false, and there I
no foundation for them," he declares,
"yet they seem to have gained credence
probably because a pending treaty be
tween the United States and Nlenrngtia
contemplates securing from the latter all
rights lor building n canal on lis terri
tory." Fire Truck lilts Cart Fonr Hart.
Fire truck ,15, answering nn alarm,
sldewlped a trolley car at Sixty. third
street and Columbus avenue yesterday
morning, throwln most of tho firemen
to tho atraat, Four auffered slight In
juries. John Prtrld, motorman, was
arrest, charted with rackleaa drlrlng.
W. WOOLWORTH'S homo at (lien Cove, L. I., ns it looked yes
tcrtlny when the fire which wrecked it had burst throui?h the roof,
( . . imp - ia
. m mmmim .... M.i'jk.rri i
I "WjsirsP
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaalsaaalaasflM aaaaalaaaHlaaaaaal
FIRE WRECKS FINE
W00LW0RTH HOME
I'nliiliiil Struct urc at (Hen
i'(ip l in Unin: Kire-
IIKMI ll('lil(v.
'i.i . CniK. I, !. Voi pi. Wlntield
II. i'l, the country home of F W Wool
coith, biiineil to the ermind this after- ,
noon, with a lie. of '.'1111,1100, while all
the ttretneii .m l tiro apparatus fiom fi.ur I
township.- stood hclploj. In the y.inl.
It va iiim of Cic tlneht hotie In the
Flesh I'onil colony nml stood on the
brink of a hill overlooking the I !.
The lliemen came ns ipilckly they
could pull the apparatus out from the.
towns, 'iiit they found only a four inch
water iirini with jmoi pressure, s-i they
slmpli c.irrleil out a few valuable piece
of fiirnltuic ami then stood aroutiil and
watched the houn' burn.
.Mr and Mrs. Woolworth wete In Man.
Iiattnu. They were found by telephone.
but by the time they cot to tlleii Cove
In-
imtomnlille, whlrti vcas about 3
i.a, .t.le Lo.... .v.- ,. i,i.i.,v ml..
1. 1,1. , , , , . , i. ' . . ,, , ,f t
.... "1
' Mi'. W.silworth via- oierrome mid
was taken to a neighbor bouse, but '
Mr Woolworth stajed with the crowd
that bad hicn vvati ling tlie i, tai le
from the stari It wasn't the mm ey
loss that iKitluied Mr Woolworth. "It's
J"st ,.!", "u l, ,lmt tlmt
u"."' '"' ".'".' , ., .
,7h' nr.V MiT. ":."'r..!.",".'.,.
and iiulckly spread over the
MUailcrs
wb.ile urnture. which ws large V of
wood, Mls Maty Hill, the houn-keepe r. J'11' ra,,i"M n'ut thought of partisan
dwoiered the tire, alarmed the neigh- j feeling.'
Isirhnod -jtid then started the ervnnt I
cairjlng out valuable pieces of fiirnl-i I'lilltlc nml Its Mrnnlnu.
ture. Moie than J'iIi.ihih woith of ar- The President referred to his service
tills- wereiarrlul out and tilled on Ihu , ehlef executive of Princeton L'nlver
l.ivvi, "1(5. saying lie knew from experience
The village, of (lien Cove, Sea 1 'HIT, there was politic" even In tin- running
Locust Valley anil u.vster nay sent an ,
their lire sippatatus It Is presumed the
nre started from n dtlectlve eleo.rtc
1 ouneciioti. .111 iiih-.-u.ihi'ii !
mane
The only leal work for the tltemen
w.i to rescue one nf Mr. Woolworlh's
maids, who was trapped in one of Ihe
"Id. "and everything was being liven
here for the winter. Well, I shall
build right away" .Mr, Woolworth's
town house Is at WJO Fifth avenue.
DEFEATED. GOES TO HOSPITAL.
election bock Ton II nob for Pnl
rraiin'a Turrllilr JiiilKe.'
PATr.neON, N J. Nov Id. The elec
tion proved loo much for Patrick A. Mc
Permott, Democratic candidate for A
semblyman, and as a result he Is now 11
patient 111 St. Josepn's Hospital,
The Rrpubllc.ni landslide In Pasalc
county was a terrible blow for tho "tur
rlble judge," who In ten years as a Jus
tiro of tho peace never sent a man lo
jail The shock of defeat unbalanced
his mental equilibrium and In ought
about a pronounced swelling of both
lowei limbs 1'hiHiiiaiis said In-day he
was Improved and might leavo the In
stitution in a few days.
W. F. SADLER, JR., DYING.
Ailjotnnl-tieiieral of .rrr .Irrapy
Victim of llorder Molilllinllon.
s.i,Tiir I'.i.. Vov to. Wilbur F.
Sadler. Jr., Adjutant-General of NevvlSKlm warning hunters to keep wMy,
jersey, vino nu oven 111 111 me "ionic
of 111 brother here for aonie week, is
In a 11 ltio.it condition. Ills death is 11
question of a few hours, Ills health
broke under the strain of work lit Sea
Girt when the New Jersey soldier. were
called out for service at the border.
Organic heart trouble developed.
Gov. Foit appointed him Adjutant
General III llio;i. lie had previously
been paymaster of tlie Second llrlgaile,
National Guard of New Jersey, with Ihe
rank of Major,
Fire Causes "I, 1 Frlitlil.
SonietHidy llicked a lighted clgaiette
fiom n Second Avenun ilevnted train 1 Fau, Rivkr, Mass., Nov 1(1. A wage
on to the track south of Twenty-third I "iilvuticc of 111 per cent., to become of
stieet yesterday afternoon, and when fectlva on December ( and to continue
the next train came along a blnie had In force for six months, was offered to
started, Passengers, afraid It might I the 3!i 0011 cotton mill operative of
onnunie the ties and cause the struc- I this city tu-ulght. Tlm manufacturers
ture to topple, grew- highly nervous and made the offer at a conference held bv
some of them risked the third rail to
walk Hie narrow footpath to the sta
tion. Tralii hands put out the the with
sand ami chemicals,
riSr.lll KHT HOTKI.H AM) (IOI.F I.I.NKH
nownpau. Inq.tieabvarrt AlrUne, llll U'way,
Ail' , "
. . t
WILSON, IN POST-ELECTION wBSBSM
SPEECH, URGES U. S. "UNITY" HHH
f HHaaBsaH
'Let Us Forget All Our
Common Service," He Says at Will
iamstown, Mass.
WU.I.I.VAJSTMH ,, Mas.. Nov. 0 In a
speech here to. night before eierul thou
sand persons vihocame from nearby
tow u rti congratulate him on his le
election President Wilson said ;
"I want to say that now the campaign
' over wc lnu't think of only one thing,
and that Is not of p. 11 ties hut of the
Interest of the grent country vie all low.
Let u forget all our difference and
mule fot coinuuMi set vice only In that
wn :: wn work for the great nation
that has kIvcii us liberty ami peace."
The I'lcsldeiit was welcomed by the
students and townspeople after the
chrlFtenlng of Uleanor Axson Snyre, tha
second child of his daughter, Mrs. Fran,
els II. Hayic, and for whom he s!o.d as
KoiiiHwiiT. noon auer ins .uriiai 111 nit
"f hla soii.lii.iaw.-jiuUtsrrrt to th"
P'esldent of Williams College, the delega-
tlon. heailei bv Pres blent II. A. (iarrtc d
' colleae and Satnuel P. liligdcn.
ii ' " ii"'i' '"
1111 M, matched to t ie Sayre home.
The I'le.l.lent spoke floiu the imrch of
owu-.t ,,, .,- inerno .-,,.,11.,..!.., .r,Mi-tit Wilson promised in the name
llcally uy the students. f ,u, ,.h,K, , ..r,.,)urice xhe devil and
I come here to forget the field or poll. 'up ),.,, nri,,. The other godfather was
tics and for a brief rest. I 0-11110 simply HV .iime. M. Sayre. brother of
to visit my daughter and to attend a slm- p. ,,.; it, Snvr(. Tlp K0dniotherH were
pie (creinony helo to-day." he- said. vnJU Mnr it-n-n,, it,, vv ci m...
"Now that the campaign Is 1 over we may 1
" ourselves in 111c weliare or;
of a college.
"Politics," he continued. "Is uftcr all a
he continued,
means of getting soinethlng done, of put-
nog 1'irivnrii inias. it is a uiu, nut
, ine nino iio uoe?, run love Hie UKUl lias
no led blood In his vein."
Mr Wilson told a storv of u mun
having a vision In which he was offered
n nom mm a .worn ana nio-o 1 11c norn
Immediately The vision v ,inllied und
the man was cut sod for taking the horn
GIRL KILLS BROTHER
WITH A RABBIT RIFLE
Another Sportsman Also Dond
a. Sporting Season Open
in Jersev.
I
Patehsov, N. J Nov. in. tine person
dead and one man shot through tho. eye
Is Fsssnlc county's loll of the first dav....- .. ' ' ... " .V. """
of the slir.nilnl. m,
game bird ! and animal, u"land
James llennlon. 21. of West Pater-on.
trodireil t iroiieli ihe fUla -II a...
toward nightfall bagged u rabbit, which'
" " ""j. .,,
he took home and exhibited will, pride
to his sister nthel. 12. He was drinking
wlih Mh elite hi,. ..n..i .s,. .ei....;
and .he bulle, penetrated Ills stomal
llennlon died Instantly,
Three residents of Harmony started
up a rabbit In the Ileitis near Hope.
i:ilher Albeit Hawk or his In other Syl
vester discharged his gun at It. Part
of the chaiKi- struck F.lwood Simon In
the face, and lie piobably will lose the
llecause of accidents similar fo these
111 former feuscna Wayne township has
testrlcted the sportHinen to other parts
of the Stale, Members of the Wayne
e ,.1.1.. !.'-.... 1 ...,i.,.. 1.......1..
I lion have labelled their district with
sinu unriiiio. lointer ,, b.e, ,.,eu..
nml fanners tinned with cudgel were
on irunril nil i!mi
I'l.liMlNUTON, N. J Nov. 10.
-In Rarl. ,
1 years 1
! tan township Clarenre Rake,
old, out uflcr rabbits with John II. Kerr,
Hi years, was accidentally shot and
killed by tho latter. They hadn't found
any game and Kerr was shooting at 11
target when Rake walked In front nf his
gun, receiving the charge In his heart
MORE PAY FOR 35.000 WORKERS
I nllini Mills Offer IO I'er ( eiil. In-
creilse t nloim Consider! nu.
their ropresentiitlves with
the Textile
Council.
The council later voted to submit the
proposition to the Hie textile unlona at
meetings to bo held next Wednesday
night. No recommendation as to Its
acoeptanoa or rejection wa made.
defyinjf the efforts of the firemen to curb it, and the merchant watch
ing the blaze. When the fire was put out the place was in ruins.
Differences and Unite for
before the 11.1 il He mill the stuiy (o
lllusttate. the necisslt for fighting.
Mr. ilnrlleld, a son of President (lar
Held, dec.aied the Plesljiiil's wolds dur
ing (he campaign had been "full of wis
dom and light." He added: "Wo wish
ou Kodsprcd in your great oltloe."
When the President arrived here till
afternoon lie found a stack of telegrams
three feet hiph congratulating him on
his reelection. They came from Cabinet
lunula rs. Senator", ltcprecntatlvee,
(J iVertiluent olllclal and leading liemo
ciuts. flu will npl to none of them
until hi. return lo Washington, since
110 stenographer accompanied htm,
Noon after his at rival with Mrs. Wil
son, Miss MarKaiet Wilson, and Ml us
Helen Woodrow Hones, his cousin, the
President went to .St, John's Proteatant 1
Kpiacopal Church to attend the christen- 1
lug. Tho famllv party rode the few
dlocKs to tlie cliiirch in an automooiif
blocks to the church In an automobile.
nie i.ai.y crleu runtlnuousij. inside th
cnutcn only a tew intimate riiemis o
Mrs. i.iyre wltne..,e,l th, lerenmny.
I'mialtra tu "llrsmiiiicr llrvll."
N otlH nf , KO,ifsthers of the baby'
;Xloo.' ,er sister. ML-' ' Illa'nche Nevin.
ii'int of Mr Sayre, and Mrs
P.
II.
ire, mother of Mr. Sayte.
The family lwrty stood about the
baptismal font as the Kev. J. F Carter,
lector of the church, lead the service.
AfterwHrd the President made a call on
President (larilcld
To. night the family hf.d dinner in.
gether at the Sayre homo. The Free
dent will temaln here until ,":23 o'clock
to-motron- afternoon and then will
turn to Washington, where he Is due to
arrive uniiay rngni. 10. morrow ne win
rein.ini ipneiij- nun 011. lauui.
m his way heie the Piealdent was
cheered bv crowds at Tniv uud several
other towns bi New York and Maas.i-
cnuseiis. loiiiro.iu engineers nu w snrui
blasts on their whistles as he passed
their lootnotlve.
RAIN OF SHELLS FALLS
NEAR AMERICAN CORPS
Volunteer Amlmlaiice Worl
pr' on Verdun Front Have
Narrow Kseape.
tp'riat CaKIr Itttpateh tu Tim Sis
I.onpon, Nov. 10. The correspondent
1 io--"i"'u looiiuter oioior sinnuiance
1 corps which Is working on the French
ii"" 1 IZ in, v " i. " 'i?1''"
""" " "n w
enns repemic
VV,V uf 'olur e, r. f, .be i-o 1
wa. reatVnL .e .1
'ni... .,.,-n. ... 1 u . ,
I . . ' " "" n suian village ne-
th s' TL
village, observing the military activities
tn the nelgJiborhood.
Three shells, obviously range finders,
fell within a few yards of the American
T Z uJZ .1. iV '"L 7l '""'"
' 1 T!1,nn1, ""'f, ""!h" '?m t" under
I?'1?" '"' plnvry dlllloull. and
nai1 ll,relv ,u "!0',' ''' 'ni
V'H" ,a ral" ?' "nan shelH fell upon
I . ,Ucr wh'lfl ' l'"r" ,Ul, leru'
An oberver counted more than tlfiv.
1 , '"llcalm , '"" convinced that
I ",e attack was made with a view toward
' ''e attack was made with a view toward'
, " " Americana ri-om
wot king
" i'on num.
PARIS BARS EVENING DRESS
UI.X,aa.
I ., ,,.. ......., . - .. ...
I Ordinary Day (.urb Mn.l Mr Worn
In stnlr Tbentres.
Paius, Nov 10. An official decree in-
sued to-day provide that until the war
shai.C,'be" aSOT'.ltra;".,:
Opci. 1 Combine, the Comedie Francalao
111 11111 Odeon, which am subsidized by
tin, .state, wriunury day costumes must
be worn.
"Those drcshod otherwls,, will be rig
orously excluded," the decree says.
Recount xskrd In North Carolina,
Asiikvh.i.i:, N, C Nov. lO.-Ou the
face of complete returns from the Tenth
Congressional district Representative
James K, llritt, Republican, has been re
elected ovw his Democratic opponent,
Kchulon Weaver, by a majority of thlr-
teen votes. The Democratic camnalrn
managers, however, refuse to concede
Mr, lirltt'a clectlom Md wUl demand a
recount 1
aHKaaa
BUS
mm
$10,000,000 SCHOOL
TO TRAIN DOCTORS
Hockofellev Board (lives S'
onO.OIIO Mni'P to rniver
it.v of Cliicniro.
The rjcn'r.il Hducatlon IJonrd arid the'
Rockefeller Foundation have appro,
pilated fl.HOii.iinn for tho etnbllhment
of a medical depaitnient In the t'nlver-
Utj - f Chicago, The gift was announced
., . . , , , . . , ,
'"ht nleht Vr Abraham Flcxn-r. It
brings Mr. Rockefeller's '-outrlbutlons
to the uriverslty up to neatly 3T.
(iiirt.nun. The university will ct uslde at le.nt
j:,000,00n for the same purpose, will
give a site on the Midway valued at
jjofl.noo and will
raise a further sum
of M.ma.oilii. The medical school will
therefoie start with an endowment of
almost f "1,000,0011, making It the richest
of Its kind, j
Hush .Medical i-oUegc, established ;
seventy-live ye.ii" ago, will go out of,
'existence The Presb.v let Ian llo'p'tal '
J which Itusll has used, will be taken overi
by the I'nlvoislty of Chicago .mil will lie
reorganized to provide aile,iinte clinical
and laboratory facilities for physicians
now in the Ibid. A new l.iboratoiy
j building will be erected p Immediate,
'conjunction with Ihe hospital, The
1 Presbyterlun plant i valued at about
.t3,lin0,0ii(i. The entire enterprise will'
represent all Investment of more than
jlii,iiftft,oan.
"This project," a!d D- l'le.xnei'sj
statement, "will be giving the cltv of 1
i-i,i v,ii. ...,i n..i .... .
""" "" 1 "" '"ii inm
It will also provide for the ,l,st time in
, "!
post-graduate school ado.
quatoly equipped and lluancrd.
Hospital 10 Re Unlit.
"The school will bo erected 011 tlm
Midway lialsance. and will thus form a
part of tlie piesent I'nlvcrslly of Chicago
plant. High grade modem laboratory
buildings will be provided for Instruc
tion in the students' first and sciond
veins, ami a unlveislty hospital under
complete control 01 ino university, with
' laboratories and an out patient depart-
complete control or Ihe university, with
merit, will he built on the Midway
"The entire teaching staff, clinical as
well as l.iboratoiy. will be oiganled on'
the full time has . Thai Is, all the '
tc.icheis for clinical as well as labora
tory studies will give their entire time!
to leaching and rcseaicb In tho iinlver- '
"US' ho-pltal and medical school
Pro.
lessors and ineir assistants will hold
their posts on condition th.it they be.
come salaried uiiiversitv oflb la h ami
I ,lu' accept personally ,,o fees wh,,t. .
.fr f)). an. mel,Pil, p kwkWM ,.,.!
yh" ,,,,,,
1 lie iiiiij iiienii,ii eoooi" m me COUIl
tiy to-day which have embiacoil Hie fun
tune teaching plan ai o John Hopkins
Medical School and Iho medical ilcpai!-
ment of Washington I'nlvci slty, st
Limit).
"The full time scheme I a plan n .
sine to liiHpltal work ami medical leach
lug Iho undivided energy of eminent
scientists whoso efforts might otherwise
be distracted by tho conlUctlng demands
of prlvote practice and clinical teaching
Tho full tlmn scheme Is an niipeal to
hcleiilltlc Interest and devotion of tlm
clinician, and tho reaults so far realized
through the phtn at Johns Hopkins have
been most satisfactory.
"It should te of Increasing conss.
quence to the publlo that the training of
those studying to become doctot should
bo In charge of the most comis'tent men
obtainable devoting their entire time to
this work. Greatly Increased ettlcloncy
OMMtaakMl m fourth Pai I,
j60 AIRPLANES MEET
IN PITCHED BATTLEI
BritiMi Brinp; Down Six (!pr
in n ii MtiphiiiP.s in Sppctarn
lar Fisrlit.
J A UK UKPOHTKIl LOST
i I'i'piipIi Kliers KnjriiRPil in
Aerial Claslips Ovpr Hip
t Soninip Upgion.
I.o.visjn, Nov. 10. Oerman niiatois
i clashed with I'renih and llrltlsli last
. iiIkIii In n serlea of teirlflc battles III the
lr over many mlleH of the liattle front j
In France. Forty-two alrpUmes of tlm
three annles) ale reportea t" liaia neen
luought down, French nvlnlors nlMie
ngaged In sevinty-si-vcn fights In the
ilouus.
According to the olllclal statements
the allied airmen disposed of twenty-live j
Herman machines and lost seventeen.1
Nnl all the machine leportell nt driven
down were desttoyed, however
Mil Airplanes In llaltle.
.More than slxlv airiilaiies were en
gaged In ii pitched battle between llrltlsli
'and (leiman machines, The llrltlsli ac
count of this light, tho biggest ot the
kind yet reported, follows:
One of our Miuadrons of thlrtv ma
chines encountered u squadron of from
thirty lo fotty machines. An aeilal
baitle took ulaie ntid the enemy
iiuailroii was broken up and dispersed.
' Six of his machines were seen to rom-
mence to fall out of control, but owing j
in tlm senrltv of the Hghtllig It was I
nt onsHlble to watih them to the (
ground.
The great neilal activity was due to
j the coming of clear weatlier on me
Sommo front, For many dais there h.n
been either roln or heavy wind storni,
w hlch mado flying Impossible. The
union was good last night nlu. and sonic
of the lighting was by moonlight.
HesUles the fights among lnglc avia
tors nml Miuadioiis, nil thtee armies
uiailo raids upon communications and
store, behind the hostile line.
1-reocli Makr I'nigrro,
Toe Infantry did little fighting to-day.
though the French again made progress
01 the itnpoitant Lo I ralisloy sector
southeast of Hipauuie. They raptured
tienc'i elements 111 the direction of Le
Tiansloy and n pulsed n German counter
11tt.uk, At Verdun the artillery lire was
very heavy. Tbn uincial statement on
till fighting tajs
North of the Somme we captured
several trench elements northeast of
Ias Itoeuf and in the region of Sail
llsel. A liermnti counter attack di
rected against Sallllsel was easily ie
puled, We took some prisoners.
South of the Somme thero wa n
continuous bombardment, which was
somewhat violent nt Interval" 011 the
Prossoiiv und Abl.ilnoourt sectois.
On the right bank of the Meue
thero was gieat artillery activity by
both side" at n.l points between the
Ilaudtomoiit qu.uiy and Damloup.
Theie whs no Infantry action uud tlie
day was qulei on the remainder of the
front,
lleporta on Air Flsrhtlas;.
The stuteinetds on ulr warfare follow
The llrltlsli statement Suva.
A the result of the Improvement In
the weather there via great aerial
activity ,vilerday Much useful work
was done, many bombing raid being
cariled out on the eneuiuy's loumiuui
cations, billets and stoic., Air fight
ing was almost continuous.
As the icsult of othtr fights nlm!
more hostile machlni-s were dilvm
down In a damaged loudltlou. three
of which are known to have bei 11
destroved, A hostile kite balloon was
also attacked and sent down In flames.
Seven of our machines are missing.
The French statement enjs.
There wa krent terlpiucil aviation
activity yeterd.iv Our airplanes
weie engaged In ccv cnty-u'vcti tights,
In the course of these a Fokker bi
plane was brought unwii within our
lines near Aubeiivc, a Dauipler was
forced to descend near Saint llllalre
le Grand and the two aviators wore
made prisoners ' another machine was
oeitnlnlv brought down and seven fell
In the German line on the Somme
7(MI llointia Krr llriippoil,
1111 boinbardliig squadrons il-opped
mine (ban TOO bomb on cmni uiuci
tlnns and cantonments behind Hie
front, ei-peclall.v nn the nillway sta
tion ol Lens rind Vourbios llonibs
tn the number of 270 were dropped
on blast furnace nt Algiatige, near
'rhlonvllle. on the arrodtome at
Diein-e. on the railway "tatlon nt
Couri'elles-sur-Nled and on aircraft
shed" at Polecat
The German stntcment sais
rouillttons for operation being fa
vorablo tiring nodvitv was llveli on
both sides at min pouus along the
front.
in tin' Somme sector hoHlle local
attacks were delivered without siicresH
ne. ir lhiuoourt rAbbnye, Gueudecourt
and l.es Ibeiifs and at Pressolre
fsttonger French force advanced nu
both sides of Sillily. They were re.
pulsed. Ill pari by hand to hand light
ing. Dining the dav the nlimen were very
a ilvo nud contlnuid activity b moon
light during a clear night In numer
ous ncnal engagements we shot down
11 4nt.1l of seventeen airplanes, tho
inujurlt.v In tb" Solium1 region on both
sides of the liver
t mi- air siiriilroun repeated their f.
feiilie attack upon r.illioad station
and troop and . inmuiiitloii depots,
ospcci.illv in the sector between Pe
nnine and Amlcii
GERMAN CASUALTIES 3.755.693.
HI n.li.'t I lllllcrr. anil Men Killed
lliirlng nr. llrlllali I'lanre,
London, Nov 10. German casualties
since the, beginning of the war, reported
In German ollkial lists, total il.'.'i.'i.ilti:!
olllcers ami men, according In all olllclal
llritisll compilation made public to.il:i
(If this total UI0.2.!4 were killed The
Haines do not Include enaiialtlc (iiuong
the naval funis or the Colonial troop.
The German ciisiiiillh repotted by the
I h"uT.' f".r ""' ""m,ll "f, October
,",al 19''1'07," ""leers und uieii. Including
1 3l,:t'Jl dead
Prior to the war evening dress was re
garded a almost Indispensable except
for those occupying seats In the upper
gallery.
Montana Has First HHaaarit,
II KLIN A. Moll., Nov. 10. Northern Mon
tuna experienced to-day the flrat real
billiard of the winter. Snow was gen
eral throughout Prickly Pear Valley and
northern Montana and fall to 11 depth of
threa to aU laohs
two ARMIES IN
1YDATU ilDID AT
fDilin U1UI ill
DANUBE BRIDGE
.Mackcnsen. Battling at Cer
navodn Crossing, May Be
Caught in Trap.
ilU'MAXIANS BALLY
ON WKSTEKX BANK
Tiil'l'if ii' t l'liivrrlo Ifiimic I'm
11 "lilt ,Unrg( JiUJJOS 101
Possession of the
Mill Causewav.
11
hTSSIAXS M KNACK
TKl'TON IMCIIT WINil-.
.Move Suuth as Invaders Fall
Back 'I'oward the Con
liinn Railroad.
I.OMSI.N, Nov 10 Fleice lighting Is)
Un progress for possession of the groat
bridge, across the Ij.hiiiIk- :it Ccrnavod.ii
Itusslniiri nml liuiiiiinlans, lately In re
tioat, have rallied and ore Milking
heavy blows at Von .vliiokon.en from
two directions.
Von Macken.en's Teutons and llul
gurs had Hticceoiled in crossing; tho
(Danube nt Cernavoda from the pn-
brudja side and were actually In old
' "umaiua, mrenicning niicli.nest, They
baa not. however, cro-wii the marshes
on the vvitirn Kink of tho Danube,
Ten miles of tin- eleven mile brldgo
consist of n causeway cnisslng these
marshes. I "mil to-diy it vvna not
known the Teuton" had crossed th
I liver.
rierre I'IkIh nn llrldae.
Ono Utiinaninn nrrny has alrnimt set
foot nn the bridge Itself. It 1 engaged
In a hand to h.iul fight with the Teu
ton 011 the big causeway lending up
to the bridge on the western bank of
the Ditiube. 1 in either side of th
causeway In the Danube svvninp ncrosH
I which II run" Russians ami Rumanian
niv nt gtlps wit'. German., Turku nnd
; r.iiltiirs.
Tint far this new a d startling move
of Gen S.ikh.uolTs i.eiv liobnidj.v cam
, pnlgn ha brought bn.i success. Ru
I slm cavalry and inf.intu have nocvu
pled Hie Dir. ilea station on the. cause
w.1.1, t iking butidieds ,.f prl.oneiH and
maelilnn gun, alii are i,i,siiig nn.
The Duu.ire.i -tatlon i- only two mile
wes1 of Ceimnoil.i, l,nt s separated
from ! by the D.itmhe, Dunareii is Cie
Rum.iiilin name for Cic Iiiiiube, ami tho
st.l'loll I the e.lsleriilli.i-' of two on the
causeway a. ioss the m irsh The llort
che.i nation eviilently had been o cllplcd
previously.
Terrlrlc fighting l jolng on along the
c.iu-ewa.v and up :n the bank of the
Difiube The Russians and Rumanian
under a galiing Hie fiom V011 Mackeii-
sen hoaiv gun ncro.-s tn. rivei In
Cer na v od 1 nud hnni!fo.iip"l M the
mar shy gioiunl on then -nlo of Ihe river
aie sttlvlng bv a quuk tl.niM to re
cov or the In hlge
'i'Ollil lllmi lit lelllons.
Me.ltlilllie Hie si ,'otnl .ir.i. illeb
i Gen Saklnrolf i" driving s-iiii'i fiom
Inoilbirn Do'irinlj.i and h.i" 0 ipi.rl in
port. int I'ii'ii'iiii- on a ime roiuhiv from
tiftien toiwioiv mil' s north of the t'01 -stnnz.i-Ceru
iv oda rallroid. on Von
VI icki risen rmhi lie-ides Hirsov 1, tun
Itu-sMiis have taken the villas'' of VI11
llll, tlie lleigbls two lllllo- smith of if
geililv and a I 1 le oe t.'i, e
southwet of raslmdja
', The plan of lb" llussiiii , ien' 11 1
is appirrittlv to smash Von M n ken-ei.
jbetwieri .111 attack Umii b m. 1. 11 f'ii',1
I nnd ore uiion bis right flank, lec.ipturo
I the 1 cinavoda bildBe, the riilnnid to
, Cnnstnnz 1 and te"pen 1 'nn--inn 1 fn
' Rinslsn supplie and undeitaU, .it ta'
I the allied pi m of an iniini' ( :,il
garl.i through tin- Dobrndja
' observer line arc purzled to undo -I
stand what is the present -late of tli
I Carol luldge at I'd navoda. f which the
I two nrniies are bittbrig When Vu
' Maekenseii took Ccrn.ivodi It wi an
1 noiiuceil from II. rim th it the Rumanian
had blown up the bridge Spier, then
ttheio ha been rw news whet -er nr riot
I V011 Ma, kensen etiglnen bavn lebullt
it or whether hi tioope ros.ed to tho
' Ruinanl.in side b a ponloon bridge
II 11 mn 11 Inn Pnsblnir On,
' Part of th Riisso. liiini.iman .irmv
got tioioss tn-1 lirlilge Imrore It was
blown up . the remainder repeated In the
wild legion of noitbein Dobrudja The
tioop that mossed tbn bridge mado
their lose at Ketch, at the Rumanian
etui, twelve 11. lie frier I 'einavod.i. Now
thev are coining back
The Carol, or Cernavoda, bridge, for
which the st niggle now rages, Ih the
; H .'.uiV uZ ""iZn
1 Potest! to a Utile beyond the Dtill.irc.i
station which the Russians hold, It Is a
series ol cllisewnvs, viaiuicih anil Olllei
iinnroacbes across the Danube marshes
The bridge piopir I neativ half a nnl.
long, has a main span of liuO feet anil
four other spans each of about do feel
111.011 iniisoniv piers i'be luldge Is
about 120 feet above the stream nt I e
Dauuiie Along II and along tlie cause
wa.v run the 1 'onst.i n.a-Cernavoda rail
road, wbli h lead tin illy to Huiharest
thus conne"tllig the Ruuiairaii oapij
Willi the lllack Sea
Tranalianln Line Hold.
For the numicni the situation in 1.0
Dobrudja eclipses that on tlm Trails)
v.mla f 1 out- The heavy German a'tacks
upon the Rumanian centie soiilb of
Kronslailt yestetil.iv did not break the
lines They forced the Rumanians hack
wei of the lluzeu alley, not far from
Tallin lluttl, and gained some ground In
tlm Important Prahova Valley.
Hut In, this section the Rumanians
have enveloped the Teuton loft flank
in to Fraiiova, Valley ky mniilitg the
1
