Entered at Second Cla Matter October 11. 1889, at the Pott
Office at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3. 1879,
INDEPENDENT IN ALL THINGS, NEUTRAL IN NONE.
Entered at Second Class Matter October 11, 1889, at tho Pott
Office at Chicago, Illinois, under Act of March 3, 1870.
TWENTY-EIGHTH YE All, NO. 7.
CHICAGO, SATUBDAY, NOVEMllEll II, 110.
Sixteen Paget.
90NOLE COPY
PIVBCEfrTS
WHOLE NUMBER 1,1 1 'J
ALDERMEN WISE
City Council, at Its Last Meeting, Holds
Up Sixty Ordinances for Cement Side
walks Pending Investigation.
Monday's council meeting was notn
bio for the number of ordinances for
content sldownlks held up by the al
dermen. An unprecedented number of these
ordinances sixty by nctunl count
wcro submitted to the council by tho
Hoard of Local improvements.
"l'roporty owners think thero la a
lot of Kraft In thin," said Aid. .lohn
Toman, "and they charge It up to tho
uldormon. although these ordinances
are originated by tho Hoard of Local
Improvements. Thero Is no question
that a lot of theso Improvements nro
unnecessary, and I know of cases In
my ward whero tho sidewalks aro per
fectly good, yet tho board Is trying to
muko tho property owners pay for
now ones."
Other aldermen made similar com
plaints. Aid. .lohn Itlchert said that
ho had been compelled to hold up forty
audi ordinances most of them for
Hhurt stretches of Bldownk because
ho regarded tho Improvements as a
useless waste of money.
Mr. Fuhorty of ' tho Improvement
Hoard explained that tho Improve
ments were ordered on tho basis of
tho reports of sidewalk Inspectors.
When they report sldowalkB which
aro dofectlvo or below gradu tho prop
erty owners must make tho necessary
ropalrs. Otherwise the board has only
one recourse, according to Mr. Fuh
orty, and that Is to start special as
sossment proceeding for a now side
walk. "It's tho law," said Mr. Fnherty,
'land 1'vo got to follow It. If wo had
an appropriation maybo wo could re
jmlr tho sidewalks ourselves."
The aldermen who had tho sidewalk
Improvements In their wards deferred
were Ulehort. Doyle, Cullorton, Smith,
Rodriguez. Sttts, (lolgor, (inadt, Ada
mowskl, O'Toole, Tomap, and Jnnko.
It Is expected tho olllclency Htaff of
tho llnunco committee will bo asked to
muko an Investigation. Charges havo
been mado In tho past that tho side
walk Inspectors sought to play Into
tho hands of cemont contractors.
Mayor Thompson allowed tho so
called double patoou ordinance for tho
II ro department to becomo effoctlvo
without his slgnnture.
PUBLIC UTILITY COM
MISSION CAN REG
., ULATE SURFACE
LINES
Tho recent decision of tho Illinois
Supreme Court In tho Chicago and
West Town Hallway Company caso has
an important bearing, attorneys say,
on n caso Involving' tho power of tho
Illinois Public Utilities Commission to
regulnto surfaco lines In Chicago.
In tho West Town's doclsion tho
court held tho commission had no
power to compol tho company to ro
turn to rates In effect July 1, 1013,
unloss It found those rates to bo rea
sonable and tho present rates to bo
unreasonable,
In tho case involving control at tho
Chicago surfacu Hues by tho commis
sion, tho commission attompted by or
der to' compel tho surfaco Hues to put
on trailers during tho rush hours nnd
sought to enforce other regulations
for rollof of congestion. Tho Cook
County Circuit Court rostrained en
forcement or tho commission's order
on tho ground that tho commission
had no Jurisdiction over Btroot rail
way lines. This was bused on a soc
Hon or tho stnto constitution limiting
tho powers or tho legislature.
Upon this point, In tho West Town
Hallway Compuny case, tho court said
In part;
"Tho public utilities act docs not
violate section 4, article 11 or our con
stitution. That soetlon doeB not, by
Implication or otherwise, attempt to
divest tho stnto or Its paramount au
thority and control of tho streets nnd
highways. It is equally clear that that
FOUNDED 1889
Largest Weekly Circulation Among
People of Influence and Standing
section of tho constitution docs not
deprive tho legislature of the powers
to llx rates for such complaints."
CITY COUNCIL
REMOVES THE
SKYSCRAPER LIMIT
Tho city council building committee
approved n permit for it proposed
$800,000 apartment building at rJ-71
Enst Goethe street, which Is to bo
live feet higher than tho city building
code permits.
The building Is to bo 101 feet high
and is to bo built by Etigono A.
llournlquo & Co. The rodit provides
that the height of tenement buildings
shall not be more than one and one
half times tho width of tho street on
which they face.
If tho codo should bo enforced this
building could be only nluety-nlno
foot high.
GROCERS CORNER
CHICAGO FOOD
Alderman Willis O. Nance, chair
man of tho council health committee,
started on a hot scent on tho trail ot
an alleged combination or retail gro
cers. It leads, ho declared, to n boy
cott conspiracy between certain
groups or grocers and wholesale deal
ers to force all retailors to sell tholr
products at a certain jtrlco or bo re
fused subsequent purchases from
wholesalers.
"Tho Information I hnve comes front
unlmpcachublo authority," said Alder
man Nance, "but it Is Impossible to
mnko known tho dealors' name Just
at this time, as It might block tto
Inquiry the committee Is about to
launch Into tho operations of alleged
Illegal combinations or retail grocers.
"Tho grocer who has complained to
mo states that ho wnB forced to ralso
the price or his bread from G to 0
cents and from 8 to 10 cents as tho,
result of tho concerted action of a
group of other dealors, who Informed
tho bakery company from which ho
was purchasing his broad that thoy
would place no more orders with It
unloss It mado this dealer 'como to
tlmo' and boost his own prices.
"This grocer who has come to mo
says that ho refused to comply with
his rivals' demands nnd that the
bakery then rofused to sell him bread,
as had been threatened, and rofused
to tnko back tho stale loaves that ho
had loft on his hands. Frightened
by the success or tho move against
him, ha raised his prices to conform
with tho demands. Tho bakery then
resumed its deliveries and business
again rolled along in Its normal chan
nels. "I havo received othor tips of this
character, and this commlttoo Is go
ing to try to lay wldo tho. heart of
this alleged conspiracy, and If found
substantiated by tho facts, ns I bo
llovo It will, wo will lay tho evldonco
before tho stato's grand Jury or fed
eral government ror prosecution."
Alderinon Cieorgo l'rntzel or tho
samo committee laid plans for tho
furtherance or his Investigation Into
the question of nn nlleged "egg cor
ner" In Chicago, and will put what
Information ho obtains Into tho hands
of tho committee at Its uoxt meeting,
Nov. 9.
BIG SCHOOL DEFICIT
City Board Runs Behind Over
$600,000 in Last Year.
Tho Hoard of Education will closo
tho year with a deficit or approxi
mately $600,000. It will have cut down
tho deficit ot a yoar ago by about
hair a ntllllon dollars, as tho board
was $1,100,000 In tho hole whon it
closed Its accounts last December.
During tho yenr $200,000 has boon
saved from tho amount appropriated.
Whon the budget was passed tho ap
propriations were $800,000 in oxcobs
or tho oxpocted rovenuo. Most or the
saving has boon on small accounts
and the amount or rovenuo has not
varied greatly from that prophesied
last .January when tho budget was
completed.
Secretary L. E. Larson presented u
lotter to tho finance committee Mon
day from Jacob Llndhoimor, assistant
county treatturor, In which It was
stated that tho treasurer would turn
over all but 20 per cent of tho money
Involved In tho tax suits now before
the Supremo Court. Tho board will
get $1,014,000 that It feared It could
not get until February, when tho de
cision on the tax suits is oxpectcd.
Tor tho first tlmo In many years tho
building fund will bo closed up with
out any deficit.
Fourteen of tho thlrty-soven com
munity centers In tho public schools
wcro opened Mondny night and the
remainder will bo opon this evening.
Tho schools In which tho fourteen
centers started tholr wintor activities
j.
IBlB JB5kz ' jL aBBBBBBB9BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBH
fim: -, Mr-rif" -kkkH
ifflMT'-i mHRIhf' i$" in kkkkkkkkkkH
ilgP !' kkHMPHWy'v '' 'kkkkkkkkkkkkkV '.
ttla ;-' kH8fV&wMi;v 1"bbbbbbbbbbbH
mlr JWWsmr' kkkH
IJBJBJBJBJBJHk;-' V. vSf SJBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBjBJl
lBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBfl - jlBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBM
ikkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkH kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkV
iB
BkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkB kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkklf
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBH H
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBH IBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBH
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBkBB BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBkH
kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkB kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkBM
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBkB BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBkV
tBBBBBBBBBBBBkH ' JBBBBBBBBBBBBBkl
Hi B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)B)Bf
BkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkS ' kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkBS
kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkHt kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkBfl
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBH IBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbV
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBH BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
BkkkkkkkkkkkSl BBBBBBBBBBkH
are the Adams, Hudloug, Cornell, Doo
little, Fallon, Fnrrou, Haugau, Hoi
don, Kluzlo, Itydor, Sablu, Smyth,
Sumner, and Waters.
DEMAND EXPORT DUTY
With abundnnco or everything In
this country the price or living and or
manufactured articles has Increased.
Tho roason ror this Is tho fact that tho
foreign markets aro ready to tako all
thoy can got In tho United States at
much higher prlcos than aro now pre
vailing In our domestic market.
A big export dttfy is tho only thing
that will protect Americans,
Tho terms of soven Suporlor Court
Judges oxplro in 1917. Throe or them
aro Republicans; four nro Democrats.
STUCKART HELPS CITY
County Treasurer Stuckart acted as
nil angel for the Hoard of Education
Monday. He sent word to the board
olllclals lie would pay to the city
treasurer $2,000,000 on .Nov. 11 nnd
$2,000,000 more on Nov. 28.
Of this amount $1,944,000 will go
Into tho school fund $1,290,000 for
educational and $648,000 for building
purposes, tt will meet the bills of the
board up to Dec. 1, leaving one month
to run on borrowed money.
Hecnuso of suits attacking tax lovlcs
It was feared tho county trensurer
would hold up all tax collections until
theso suits had been decided by tho
Supremo Court.
Health Commissioner Robertson's
efforts to get tho benefit of some of
tho $15,000 recently appropriated for
his department by the board again
have been stamped with tho approval
of the flnanco committee.
SURFACE LINES
ARE PROSPEROUS
Trnlllc on tho Chicago surface lines
in October continued to show a sub
stantial gain over that of n year ago,
Cross earnings, It was announced, In
creased 8 tor cent over October, 101C.
This Is somewhat smaller than tho In
crease for recent months, tho gain for
tho ten months to Oct. ,11 amounting
WASHINGTON PORTER,
Chlcano Capitalist and Public Spirited Citizen.
to 10.72 pop cent, compared with the
sumo ton months of 1915,
Comparisons are now being made
with a period which had begun to
show Increases over tho correspond
ing part of 1914. October, 1915, was
tho first month to record a gain in
tralllo after several months, of declin
ing revenues, Tho Increase In Oc
tober Inst year amounted to ouo-half
or 1 par cent.
Activity In traction bonds has be
como it feature on the Chicago Stock
Exchange within tho last few days.
The Northwestern Klqvnted (lrst 5b,
tinded In tho othor day at 88', were
up 11 points. Thero has boon Increased
Inquiry for tho low priced bonds of
tho Chicago Hallway Company, in
eluding tho ptirebaso money 5s, sell
lug at fiO'a and tho Incomo 4s at 40.
Houlevnrd Addison Streot and save
It for the people.
C0NNERV BEATEN
Democratic Candidate for Recorder of
Deeds Is Defeated for Re-Election
State's Attorney Hoyne Wins Easily.
Mr. .Joseph Counery, according to
the latest returns, will cease to bo
Recorder of Deeds after December.
Here aro the latest returns on
County olllces at the time of going to
press:
Tho winners:
Stato's Attorney.. Muclay Iloyno (D.)
Ilecorder Joseph F. Haas (It.)
Circuit Court Clerk
August W. Miller (It.)
Superior Couit Clerk
lohn KJellaudor (II)
Coroner Peter M. Hoffman (It.)
Hoard of Assessors
C-corgc K. Schmidt (11.)
Hoard of Assessors (vacanry)..
Charles Ulnger (It.)
Drainage Hoard President
Charles II. Sergei (It.)
Drainage Hoard Members
Charles II. Sergei (It.). Mat-
thlas A. Mueller (It.), Juntos
11. I.nwloy (H.)
Hoard of Hovlow
Edward It. I.ltzinger (H.)
County Surveyor. Harry Emerson (H.)
Circuit Court Judgo
Robert E. Crowo (It.)
Superior Court Juiiko
Joseph Sabath (D.)
State's Attornoy Muclay Iloyno was
tho only Democrat to break tho Re
publican county slato. Ho dofoatod
Harry H. Mlllor, Republican, and Wil
liam A. Cunnea, Socialist, bis oppo
nents, by n plurality of at least 40,
000 votos,
County Recorder Joseph F. Cou
nery, was defeated by largo majori
ties given his opponent, Joseph F,
Haas, Republican, in tho vote In tho
country towns In tho county. Ro
turns from 100 of theso precincts out
of 2.12 gave Mr. Conncry 7,1)00 votes
to 12.610 for Mr. Haas.
John W. Ilnlney, Clerk of tho Cir
cuit Court, seems also to have met
the samo fate us Mr. Connory. After
leading by about 4,500 In Chicago tho
vote from tho country precincts over
came his advantage and appears to
havo elected August V. Miller, Republican.
JUDGE SCULLY CALLS
FOR VOTE ON PARK
DISTRICT ORGAN
IZATION An election has been ordered for
Wednesday, Nov. 29, by Judge Thomas
Scully In tho County Court for a vote
on the question of organizing of tho
river puik district, which Includes tor
iltory lying between North Kedzlo,
Helmont, North Western, Devon, North
Crawford and Lawrence avenues. An
exception from tho itbovo Is tho
ItnvetiBWood Manor Hardens Park dis
trict, it strip bounded by North Hock
well street, Montrose and Lawrence
uvonues, which already has been or
ganized. TOO MANY ELECTIONS
The D.illy News hit tho "nail on tho
head Tuesday when It said:
As the conscientious citizen tries to
do his full duty at tho polls today ho
cannot fall to be Impressed with the
complexity of tho existing system of
choosing public olllclals. The govern
ment produced by such elections us
this one is oven more complex than
tho election system Itself.
So many olllclals now havo to be
elected by popular vote -not excluding
tax olllclals, clerks of courts, members
of commissions' Knd even a county
surveyor- tliat4tlio harassed Voter can
scarcely hope to' muko Intelligent
choice among tho candidates for all
tho oIIIcl's to bo lllled. Far more dif
ficult Is It for him to fix responsibility
In all cases for unsatisfactory results
in the conduct of public business
when tho olllclals, after they havo
been elected in droves, enter upon
their various tasks. '
Not only does the stnto government
need simplification, but tho machinery
of local government throughout Illi
nois as well as in Chicago requires a
thorough overhauling. Many of tho
worst abuses cannot be cured ovon by
tho legislature until after modifica
tions of tlte constitution shall havo
been brought, about.
Steps should bo taken so to
amend the amending clause of tho
constitution that the fundamental
law of tho state may bo ntoro readily
modified to meet pressing require
ments of tho people. Meanwhile,
however, tho legislature should do
what it can to simplify tho govern
mental mechanism of tho cities and
counties ns well as of tho state Itself.
Provision should be made for a thor
ough study of the problems involved,
to the end that when constitutional
barriers to needed reforms shall have
been temoved nn intelligent program
of slmplllled government may be
speedily put Into effect.
One of tho specific problems with
which tho next legislature can anil
should deal Is that of simplifying the
election system and reducing tlte cost
of elections, which has grown to enor
mous proportions In recent years.
TAXED TO DEATH
People of Chicago Taxed to the
Limit to Provide Places
for Reformers.
Diving women snlnrles of $5,000 a
year to prosldo ovor fad departments:
paying womon superintendents $3,000
a year to assist thorn; paying female
stenographers $150 por month while
capable mon and heads or families aro
tramping the stroots looking for work,
Is part of tho net rosidt of tho work
of "reforms" In tho City Council for
tho past flvo years. Tho other not ro
suit and tho one that hurts tho most,
Is tho Incrcnso of the numbor of em
ployes and tho Incrcnso of tho money
coming from tho pcoplo and spent on
alaries for city employes, from
twenty-four millions to over thirty-five
millions.
WHY TAXPAYERS SUFFER
City Pay Rolls Increased Eleven
Million of Dollars in Five
Years.
Tho number of tax cators on tho
city payrolls Incrcnsed G.991 In live
years and tho cost to tho tnxpaycrs
Increased nearly cloven millions of dol
lars. In 1910-11, tho last year of tho Busso
administration, tho figures wcro:
Number or employes on city pay
rolls, 23,210.
Amount of city pay rolls, $24,555,490.
In 1914-15, tho laBt year of tho Har
rison administration, rho figures were:
Number of employes on city pay
rolls, 29,201.
Amount of city pny rolls, $35,173,535.
Incren8o In numbor of city employed
In five yenrs, C.991.
Incrcnso In flvo years In cost to tax
payers by incrcnso In pny rolls, $10,
018,039. No wonder taxes nro high.
TO REGULATE
PRIVATE BANKS
A meeting of fourteen mombors of
tho legislature held at tho I.n Salle
Hotel pledged thonisolves to voto for
state regulation of prlvnto banks.
Among thoso In tho couferonco wore
Senator noos nnd tho following can
didates for tho houso: IJ. M, Mitch
oil, .Tamos C. McOloon, James T.
Prendorgnst, M. M. Hrlnkmnn, Mr,
Trnndcl, 0. A. Dahlborg, Mr. I.yle,
Mr. Illppus, Emll A. Fosterling. Mr,
Thon, Mr. Weber, O. E. Honson of
Ottawa and Frank Ryan.
Prlvnto bankors themsolvos must
support such n mensuro If It Is to
pass, according to Frodorlck H. Roos,
who is n holdover member ot tho son
ate. "Tho sound, consorvatlvo prlvnto
bnnkor . must co-ope'mto with us , to
romovo tho opposition of tho ddwn
stato prlvato bankers It wo nro to
obtnln legislation which will restore
tho prlvato banking business In Illi
nois, especially In Cook, County, to
tho confidence of tho public," 'kid
Senator Roos.
"It may bo necessary to liglslato
for tho lorgo cities, whore conditions
dlffor from thoso In tho country sec
tions. This opposition is powerful
and Influential. Wo must realize that
whon wo bogln to enact prlVato bank
ing loglslntlon wo aro picking at tho
backbono of tho business of tho state
"I recommend thut wo tnko thli-
mntter up with tho prlvnto bankors'
association, ask Its help and got It to
co-oporato In Its own Iterost."
NO DECREASE
m SALOONS
Although thirty-five saloon keopi-i -havo
failed to ronow their HcenseH ror
the present porlod, which Is rapldh
drawing to a closo, City Clerk Job..
Slman said that he did not belt.
thero would bo any material fulling on
In tho numbor of saloons In ch! .it.
noxt year, desplto tho enforcement i
tho Sunday closing law and the itimt
attacks of reformers on tho llqtiir
trnlllc.
The city clerk's staff today began
tho work preliminary to tho rouowul
of nil saloon llconses Nov. 1. This is
a gigantic task, thero being 7,091 sa
loons In Chicago. Considerable work
nlso falls on City Colloctor Charlo
Forsbcrg, whoso ofllco must Invcsti
gate tho character of each applicant
"Tho indications nro that tboro will
bo no decrease In tho number of sa
loons In Chicago noxt year." said Mr
Slman,
FOUNDED 1889
Largest Weekly Circulation Amonf
People of Influence and Standing
