THEDON NYILLE HIEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspa Published Every Saturda ubscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLVI. L
DONALDSONVIL f, LA., SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1916. NME 5
NEWS OFTHJ PHOTOPLAYS
Coming Attractions at the Local Movie Houses
Next Week's Bill at the Grand.
Sunday-Emily Stevens in "The
Wheel of the Law."
Monday-All-star cast in "The Evil
Thereof."
Tuesday-Clifford Bruce and Doro
thy Green in "The Devil at His El
bow."
Wednesday-Edna Goodrich in
"The Making of Maddalena."
Thursday-Mae Murray in "The
Dream Girl."
Friday-Lucille Lee Stewart in
"His Wife's Good Name."
Saturday-Tnth episode of "Peg
o' the Ring," 'hrtoon, comedy and
Pathe News.
"The Wheel of the Law."
Emily Stevens, one of America's
foremost emotional actresses, who has
been starred in several notable Me
tro wonderplays, will be seen at the
Grand Theatre Sunday in "The
Wheel of the Law," a sensational five
part Metro feature.
The story of "The Wheel of the
Law" deals with the fallibility of cir
cumstantial evidence and the danger
of depending upon it solely in obtain
ing a conviction. Many phases of life
are ~cted in this connection, and
there are scores of gripping features.
A novelty is the introduction of a
scene from "La Tosca." Another in
teresting feature is a scene laid in a
chemidal laboratory, showing the ar
senic test for the purpose of discov
ering the presence of the drug in the
body of a poison victim. There is an
elaborate church setting, which is said
to be one of the most realistic and
pretentious ever staged in a studio.
"The Evil Thereof."
"The Evil Thereof," a powerful
photoplay with a great moral lesson,
will be the offering at the Grand Mon
day. Frank Losee, whose remarkable
performances in former productions
of the Famous Players Company have
won him international distinction, is
featured in the leading role, with
Grace Valentine, Crauford Kent and
others of equal prominence in import
ant parts.
The scene opens with a gay party
presided over by a wealthy broker.
As favors the women each receive one
hundred dollar bills, which are accept- t
ed with a nonchalance that tells plain- 1
ly in what slight esteem these bills are
held by the recipients.
Then the history of the bills is
traced-the suffering and misery, the c
heart-ache an~ oyprt~y ich jye re-_
~eautia'rom th ruthlessa niatiir- wiry
which they have been wrested from
the poor, the innocent and the help
less.
Robert Vignola, who directed "The d
Evil Thereof," has done remarkable
work in obtaining complete realism, d
particularly in those scenes which a
show the broker's final dinner and the
interior of the barber-shop. The pro
duction, both in theme and in treat
a
ment, is an exceptional one and is r
sure to create unusual interest be
cause of the great moral lesson which c
is embodied in this thrilling and pa- t
thetic tsory.
"The Devil at His Elbow."
Strongly contrasting scenes are
shown in "The Devil at His Elbow,"
a gripping screen masterpiece in
which Clifford Bruce and Dorothy
Green will appear at the Grand Tues
day. The sordid surroundings of the
waterfront of a great city bring out
the more vividly the appointments of
rich, ambitious homes, and there are
wonderful ocean scenes both in storm
and calm.
The devil at the elbow of John Ash
ton, a young mechanical engineer of
great ability, is drink. He becomes
addicted to it not through any great
love for i, but to stimulate his tired
brain, N work on his plans for new
submarines must be finished in record
time. Thrilling experiences that
come to him as a result of this indis
cretion change the whole tenor of his
life. He~is plunged into hard manual
labor, he sinks lower and lower into
the mire of incompetence, and goes
through much degradation before he
comes to his senses. The fact that
most of these experiences exist only
in his fevered brain takes nothing
from the value of the lesson.
How Meg, the girl of the streets,
while only a figment of Ashton's
imagination, works his redemption, is
marvelously told i "The Devil at his
Elbow," one of WFe most powerful 1
photodramas that has been offered the
screen public thus far this season.
"The Making of Maddalena."
In "The Making of Maddalena,"
which the Grand announces as its
Wednesday offering, Edna Goodrich
gives a splendid interpretation of the
pathetic role of Maddalena, an Ital
ian girl, a painter's model, who falls
in love with a would-be artist who
comes to Rome to "study." Miss
Goodrich's portrayal of Maddalena,
the timid, sweet-faced step-daughter
of a sot, is marked by unusual charm
and sympathy, and also judgment.
The locale of the picture is New York
city in the opening, Rome in the sec
ond phase, and back to New York at
the denouement. The production has
much to commend it.
"The Dream Girl."
"The Dream Girl," which comes to
the Grand Thursday, belongs among
the good, if not the best of the Lasky
pictures. If there were any doubts
about the wisdom of starring Mae
Murray after her performances in
"To Have and to Hold" and "Sweet
Kitty Bellairs," they are set at rest
by her playing of a slum girl in this
photoplay. That Miss Murray pos
sesses a piquant charm is amply evi
denced in her portrayal of the ill-used
Meg, a pitiable waif, whose chosen
place of refuge when her drunken
father becomes unbearably brutal is
a barrel. In rags, or in costly gowns,
1e the new Lasky star is a magnetic lit.
tle creature, always spontaneously
it girlish.
The perfection of Lasky photo.
> graphy, combined with ingenuity in
i- achieving novel and striking effects,
is revealed at the opening of "The
n Dream Girl" with the introduction of
the characters in a manner suggesting
e their dominant traits. Very adroitly
Director DeMille escapes a perfunc
n tory exposition by making the first
scenes as interesting as the initial
g paragraphs of a well-written novel.
d
"His Wife's Good Name."
Conceding that a man of affairs
may deliberately attempt to ruin the
a character and reputation of his new
s daughter-in-law by throwing her into
the worst of surroundings and then
bringing in his son to witness her de
e gredation, taking a chance on cloud
ing years of the young man's life;
conceding also that the woman in the
case, the wife, knowing the culpabil
- ity of the father, will for many
r months not only remain away from
her husband, but also keep him in
ignorance of his father's unspeakably
inhuman conduct, "His Wife's Good
Name," to be shown at the Grand
next Friday, will make a strong pic
ture.
Lucille Lee Stewart is cast in the
role of the wife, a negative creature
--sweet and simple, but lacking
those elements, magnetism perhaps
more than anything else, that contri
bute to the making of a strong wo
man, one to inspire interest and sym
pathy. John Robertson, as Doctor
Cameron, the friend and benefactor
of the wife in distress, wins the heart
of the observer from his entrance in
the story, and holds it in increasing
fashion to the end. It is a splendid
character, finely portrayed.
Huntley Gordon, a not overyoung
college student, supplies the ginger
that enlivens the story. Frank Cur
rier as the brutal father bulks big.
Of the role that is given him he makes
the most. We despise the senior
Weatherby, but his skill in interpre
tation makes nearly convincing a
character none too logical. William
Lytell, Jr., as Silk Harrington, the
young man employed by Weatherby
to "frame up" the bride so that her
husband may see her in another man's
arms, plays his part to the T.
"His Wife's Good Name" is ex
pensively produced, interests, and
contains situations of r
"The Gilded Cage."
The central character of "The
Gilded Cage," in which Alice Brady
will be seen at the Gem Theatre Sun
day, is the queen who ascends the
throne of Balkany, a mythical king
dom, while the country is in a state
of chaos. What does she do but dis
guise herself as a-peasant, sally forth
and mingle with her people. She
meets a wandering prince, Boris by
name, and falls in love with him.
Boris, with the disguised queen, is
cast in prison by the baron who aims
to gain control .of the kingdom, and it
is only after a series of exciting inci
dents that the queen puts the baron
and his followers to rout and an
nounces herself and Boris as queen
and king of the people.
A fascinating picture is this, of
"The Prisoner of Zenda" type, that
convinces and interests over its full
length. There are some moments
where bits of excellent comedy are
introduced, and, on the other hand,
there are a good many spectacular
street settings, peopled with large
numbers of Balkany peasants.
Alice Brady plays the role of the
queen with plenty of feeling, and Irv
ing Cummings does Boris after the
regular fashion of defiant and much
beloved heroes. Montagu Love makes
a thoroughly detestable villain. Good
support is given by Arthur Ashley,
Alec Francis, Gerda Holmes, Clara
Whipple and Sidney Dalbrook.
Favorite Actress Coming to Gem.
Local photoplay patrons will learn
with interest and pleasure that Clara 1
Kimball Young, star of all screen
stars, will be seen at the Gem Tues- I
day, November 21, in "The Dark Si
lence," latest World-Brady-Made re
lease featuring this universally popu
lar actress. The following review of
the superb production is quoted from
a recent issue of the Motion Picture
News:
"Keen admiration must be express
ed for the manner in which Paul West I
No Rock, No Slate, No Clinkers
CMost Heat---Least Ash
PRICES DELIVERED:
1 to 15 barrels --------------------55
16 to 25 barrels ---------------------52c
26 to 50 barrel- .------------------50c
Over these quantities, ask for prices.
EVERY LOAD FULL WEIGHT
A Ash, Cypress and Mixed Wood
Charcoal Also--Get Our Prices
CONIIMESlE5' COA[ & SDPP[Y COMPANY
J. R. DUKE, Manager
Phone 15, ; PONALDSONVILLE, LA. 3
has developed and treated this story
It starts off in a familiar, stereotype(
y manner, and so continues for about
three reels. Then suddenly it change,
and becomes transmogrified from th<
ri ordinary into the unique and original
This is indeed admirable work and a:
e such deserves commendation.
f "The story opens in the Latin Quar
ter of Paris and discloses Mildred
' Snow,. an attractive young art stu
- dent, being rescued from a burglar by
t Dr. Martinez, a celebrated eye spe
1 cialist. Later he introduces his friend
Degent Ainsworth, a titled young
Englishman, studying sculpture. Mil
dred and Derwent fall rapidly in dove
and the day is set for their marrige.
"Then Derwent receives word from
his sister Sibil that his father is dying,
and, leaving a note for Mildred with
his friend Martinez, hurries home.
- Martinez, madly in love with Mildred,
- withholds the note and intercepts her
mail, so that she is led to believe by
the wily Spaniard that her lover is
faithless. Too unhappy to care what
becomes of her, Mildred agrees to go
away with Martinez.
"At this period Derwent returns,
and, hearing t t his sweetheart has
deserted him, ns the army, after ef
fectually beating up Martinez. Mil
dred, returning from the railroad sta
tion, finds out the truth and joins the
Red Cross. Several battle scenes are
shown and then the inevitable hap
pens. Derwent is wounded in action
and loses his sight. Mildred, under
an assumed name, nurses him back to
health. The visit of his sister Sibil
shows the foolishness of her former
suspicions. Then Derwent insists on
taking his nurse, with whom he has
fallen in love, home to England with
him. Shortly they are married, Mil
dred maintaining her silence and be
ing married under a false name.
"Now comes the unusual part, the
redeeming thread of originality. Dr.
Martinez has achieved great success
in restoring the sight of soldiers
blinded in action and Sibil appeals to
him to save her brother. This he con
sents to do as an atonement. Mildred
is torn with a great struggle, fearing
that if her husband discovers her
identity he will turn from her. Still
she urges Martinez to go ahead and
restore his sight if possible. This he
is able to accomplish. He then con
fesses to Derwent and the accepted
reconciliation follows.
"Clara Kimball Young in the lead
ing role pleased as usual. For an ac
e r cjt r
not of the character to tax her ener
gies. She was pleasing at all times
and rose to the emotional climaxes
with a spontaneity and realism that
was most effective. The two male
roles were handled by Edward T.
Langford and Paul Capellani, the first
as the young hero, and the other as
the villain. Capellani was also the
director of the production.
"Nothing but praise can be vouch
safed for the manner in which he
staged and produced the picture. He
made realism the keynote of his set
tings and locations, and in addition
displayed his artistic judgment to
great advantage. His detailing was
good and he also managed to get the
best that was in his cast registered on
the screen. Others in the cast were
Jessie Lewis, as Fifine, a model, and
Barbara Gilroy as Sibil, both of
whom handled minor parts well. The
photography and lighting were up to
the average. Taken as a whole it is
a human, appealing story, well staged
and acted, a picture that should prove
successful both from a box office and
artistic standpoint."
HOUSEWORK IS A BURDEN.
Woman's lot is a weary one at best.
But with backaclkand other distress
ing kidney ills lif ndeed becomes a
burden. Doan's Kidney Pills have
made life brighter for many Baton
Rouge women. Read what Mrs. Hi
mel says:
Mrs. W. J. Himel, 604 St. Louis st.,
Baton Rouge, La., says: "I was
troubled a great deal by my back. At
times I could hardly do my housework.
Sharp twinges caught me across my
kidneys. I got great relief from the
first few doses of Doan's Kidney Pills
and after taking one box or so, I
didn't have that dull pain across thej
small of my back."
Price 50c., at all dealers. Don't
simply for a kidney remedy-get
Dean's Ktdney Pills-the same that
Mrs. Himel had. Foster-Milburn Co.,
Props., Buffalo, N. Y.-(Adv.)
JEFFERSON HI WAY CONTEST
pection of C me Routes Pro
tsed by tanager son.
Mayor Walter Lemann is in receipt
of a #onmunic. on from J. D. Clark
so gin ral manger of the Jeffer
soY Hi vay Association, regarding
teheebt inatidboi~the contest that
has developed over the location of the
official route of the highway from
Port Allen to New Orleans. Both
sides of the river are seeking to se
cu the highway. East bank advo
c ropose that the route should
cro the river at Baton Rouge and
then proceed to New Orleans via Hope
Villa, Convent and Kenner. The
west bankers urge that the highway
continue straight on to New Orleans
from Port Allen by way of Plaque
mine, White Castle, Donaldsonville,
Edgard and other towns and villages.
Mr. Clarkson writes that each of
the con siding routes his shown
enough in Brest and resour es to re
quire a much more thorough exami
nation than was possible in the origi
nal trip over the various roads. In
order that every locality may have an
opportunity to make a correct show
ing of its availibilities, the entire ter
ritory will be put into regular con
te proceedings un r the rules and
reffulations of the J~fferson Highway
Association.
The contest may be determined in
one of two ways: First, by unani
mous consent of all the parties at in
terest, the general manager can score
dhe contending routes and decide the
issue. Second, failing this unanimous
consent, two men from other states
than Louisiana will be appointed by
the president of thhe association, and
if necessary they can call in the ser
vices of a skilled engineer.
If Manager Clarkson is selected as
arbiter, he will grade the respective
routes under the following headings
and ratings, the decision going to the
route making, the best score: Soil
conditions for roads, 10 points; avail
able road surfacing materials, 10;
mileage now hard surfaced, 10; pres
ent condition of road, (a) surface,
(b) bad grades, (c) sharp turns, (d)
bridging, (e) railroad crossings, 10;
total mileage between termini, 5; tax
able wealth, 10; population, 5; scenic
values, 10; hotels, 5; garages, 5; mem
bership material and public interest
in construction and support of high
way, 10; flood problems, 10.
"It will require at least a week to 1
)roperly score the contending routes,"
rays Mr. Clarkson. "If all the parties
it interest care to have me act as
fudge and render the decision, I will
indertake to inspect the roads during i
he two weeks from Dec. 3 to 16. This
nust be by unanimous consent and 1
with the under that I am rep-1
ax states' w ic Ieiha
uns and -which are vitally interested I
n the final location of the Jefferson
lighway from Colfax to New Orle
LIB
"If I score the roads a representa
tive of each rival route will ride with
me in the car to see all that I see and
hear all that is said to me. No pri
vate information or statements will
be received, .and anyone attempting
to make statements in such a way will
only prejudice his own case and must
expect them to be repeated openly.
"In the event I am not unanimous
ly agreed upon to score the roads and
render the decision which is to be ac
cepted as final by all parties concern
ed, then President E. T. Meredith of
Des Moines, Iowa, will appoint par
ties from other states to come to Lou
isiana and determine the contest. If
this is done, of course the parties se
lected will set their own time for in
specting the roads and will make their
own rules and regulations, and provi
sion will have to be made for payment
of their expenses and to recompense
them for their services.
"No section of the road will be con
sidered in the contest that has not de
posited in escrow a check for its
mileage. These checks will be re
turned, of course, to sections which
do not secure the location."
Commenting upon Mr. Clarkson's
communication, Mayor Lemann gave
it as his opinion that the west -bank
advocates will be entirely satisfied to
have tke general mianlger pass upon
the respective merits of the two
routes, and some action will probably
be taken at once to secure an expres
sion on this point from the various
parishes and communities interested.
They are all expected to agree to the
appointment of Mr. Clarkson as arbi
ter of the contest, and the ealt bank
hill doubtless reach the same Yonclu
sion, to the end that the question at
issue may be decided at the earliest
possible moment and the successful
route be enabled to proceed actively
with the work of getting its roads in
shape for the highway.
McCall's Hogs Sweep the Board.
Making practically a clean sweep
with his wonderful herd of Duroc-Jer
sey swine at the state fair at Shreve
port, Evan McCall, of the McCall
Blue Ribbon stock farm above Donald
sonville, captured twenty-one trophies
and two silver cups and relegated his
hereto rqpuccessfa 'hxas-rivals to
inconspicuous places h the premium
lists. Ml McCall wpW nine firsts, sev
en seconds,three tArds, one fifth and
one sixth, the National cup and the
merican cei, argL on to t all,
he Ll isiarm fut for the
best f four, classic for
Louisian ne.
McCal Durocs e pect to repeat
their victories at the Nation Farm
afd Live Stdck Show to be -held in
New Orleans November 11 to 19, for
the Louisiana champion swine breed
er, who has attained national c
rity within the short space o o
ears, will take his champions own
New Orlear tmeet all co rs.
The management of the s w an
ti ' ate one of the most a cessful
ev ts of n the th, and
ha pu cash es ounting
to 5,0 for the bt p ducts of
the rm and pasture.
For results! Advertise in The
Chief. Rates on application.
FAIR DIRECTORS MEET.
Resignation of Secretary-Manager
Vickers Accepted with Regret.
A meeting of the directors of the
South Louisiana Fair was held Oct.
29 for the purpose of receiving a re
port on the recent fair, awarding the
capital premium of $250, and acting
on the resignation of Secretary-Man
ager R. S. Vickers.
The report of the treasurer, while
not yet complete, showed that the gate
receipts of the 1916 fair approxi
mated $5500, an increase of about 60
per cent over last year's receipts and
more than double the receipts in 1914.
The report showed that there are now
eleven buildings on the fair grounds,
which with the permanent improve
ments and the twenty-five acres of
land comprised in the enclosure rep
resent an invment of about
$22,000.
The following letter from Secre
tary-Manager Vickers was read:
"Donaldsonville, La., Oct. 29, 1916.
"To the President and Directors of
the South Louisiana Fair Asso
ciation:
"Gentlemen :-Permit me to sub
mit herewith my resignation as secre
tary-manager of your fair association,
to go into effect immediately upon the
election and qualification of my suc
cessor, or in default of such election,
at the end of thirty days.
"The easons that impel me to this
decision several, but I trust it will
be deemed sufficient by you for me
to say that it is no longer humanly
possible for one man to occupy the
dual position of principal of the Don
aldsonville High School and secretary
manager of this fair, and at the same
time do justice to either.
"The fair has now reached a stage
in its development when it requires
the undivided attention of a manager.
Its rapid growth as shown by the fol
lowing figures proves that it has be
-ome an important factor in the agri
ýultural and industrial development
)f south Louisiana, that it is logically
situated, and that it can be built up
.nto a much larger institution preg
nant of permanent good to our sec
tion.
"In 1913 the total gate receipts
tmounted to $1600; in 1914 to $2400;
n 1915 to $3400, and in 1916 to
'5500, practically an increase of 50
>er cent each year. The permanent
>uildings on the ground, now number
deven, which, with the other improve
nents and including the land, repre
ent an investment of about $22,000.
"However, much remains to be
lone. Both an agricultural and a
chool building are sorely needed.
Further delay in providing proper ex
iibit facilities fair.these two mosti
lefore long provision will have to be
made for additional space for swine
end cattle exhibits, as was demon
trated at the recent fair.
"And en it will he frnm vuer to
year. The fair cannot afford to mark
time. It must grow, and grow stead
ily to eventually succeed. All of this
means increasing work for the man
ager, and for me to attempt longer to
combine the exacting duties of high
school principal with the ever-grow
ing work of the fair will result in still
more mistakes and oversights than
occurred at past fairs and finally spell
failure and disaster.
"I trust it will not be considered
unwarranted or presumptuous on my
part if at this juncture I suggest that
in order to assure the permanency of
the fair it is absolutely necessary to
place. it on a sounder financial basis.
The fair is in excellent shape as such
institutions go, but the hand-to-mouth
existence it has led, with no reserve
fund to fall back on in case of ad
verse conditions, is hazardous in the
extreme. Furthermore, the posses
sion of sufficient funds to form a bud
get of expenditures and to do neces
sary work at the proper time instead
of having to depend entirely on the
action of police juries and crowd all
building cýstruction in the last few
weeks b Are the fair, will obviate
much of the confusion and unneces
sary expense that have characterized
all of our past fairs.
"In conclusion, permit me to ex
press the gratification which I shall
always feel because of my most pleas
ant association with the gentlemen of
this board. It is needless to express
my regret at severing these official
relations, and to assure you that I am
actuated only by the most urgent mo
tives. Respectfully,
"R. S. VICKERS."
The resignation of Mr. Vickers was
accepted, to go into effect at the end
of thirty days, anddl~e was given a
vote of thanks for his services.
A committee composed of Messrs.
Walter Lemann, Waiter Godchaux,
Leo A. Marrero, Lewis E. Murrell and
Geo. H. DeRussy was appointed to
formulate a plan for placing the fair
on a firmer financial basis, with in
structions to report at a special meet
ing of the directors to be called for
that purpose.
It was found impossible to reconcile
the conflicting claims of the parishes
of Jefferson, Iberville, and Assump
tion with respect to the capital pre
mium of $250 to the parish winning
the greatest number of points, and af
ter much discussion it was agreed to
postpone the awarding of the pre
mium until next year.
October Weather.
The month just closed was charac
terized by an unusually large number
of sunshiny days, no less than twenty
three having been so recorded by Lo
cal Observer Alfred Landry. Of the
remaining eight days, two were class
ified as partly cloudy and six were
placed in the cloudy category. The
rainfall for the month totalled 5.06
inches, all of which was received in
the period extending from the morn
ing of the 16th to noon of the 18th.
In the matter of temperature the
month was a particularly delightful
one, conditions in this respect being
practically perfect. The highest point
reached by the mercury was 91 de
grees, on the 10th, and the lowest 40
degrees, on the 21st, 22nd and 28th.
METHOI4§T CONFERENCE.
P position Ormulated to quidate
Debt-rota Local Churel
By R 4 P. 0. LOWREY.
The offici4 of the Donaldsonville
circuit of Methodist churches held
their final quarterly conference for
the current year at Vacherie Thurs
day, Nov. 2, those present being Rev.
W. W. Holmes of New Orleans, pre
siding elder of the district; Rev. P. O.
Lowrey, pastor of the Donaldsonville
church; H.. L. Baker and G. W. Ed
monston, of Plattenville; W. L. Her
ring and F. A. Levasseur, of Burton;
and J. G. Sittles and Dr. W. F. Bol
ton, of Vacherie. Before the business
session Mr. Holmes preached an in
teresting sermon and mingled socially
with the localcongregation.
Among other items of business
transacted was the passage of a reso
lution to the effect that if the general
church building extension boara
would pay the last half of the debt
due on the local parsonage since its
erection some ten years ago, the mem
bers and friends of the pastoral
charge would iay the first half. This
)roposition is to be submitted to the
Louisiana cofference board at its
coming session in Baton Rouge, Nov.
22, and will 4ubtless be accepted.
In view of the general prosperity of
this section, the local church officials
believe that the members and friends
will respond to their part of the con
tract with sufficient liberality to guar
antee that one-half of the $1050
needed will be raised.
The proposition to publish a local
paper for the pastoral charge for next
year was also discussed, with favor
We consideration; as was the matter
of getting the citizens of the group
of parishes in which the churches are
located into some kind of a good citi
zens' organization to co-operate with
the incoming court officials toward
enforcing the anti-gambling, Gay
Shattuck and other state laws.
The conference also gave careful
attention to the financial needs of the
pastoral charge, resolving to call on
-he members and their friends for the
entire amount expected for main
:enance this year, this being as fol
ows: Pastor'sjoffice and traveling
expenses, $1000; presiding elder's sal
iry and expenses, $170; and $217 for
ill connectional benevolences.
The presiding officer argued, and
he body agreed, that it would be
°airer for a number to give more than
heir usual contributions than that
my one of these causes should suffer
done the loss of what the larger num
)er might bear without strain. It
vas also shown that while there had
>een regular contributors all through
he year, who in a measure main
till
e & thixexttwenty days.
The official bacrd as elected for the
oming year is composed of H. L.
faker, G. W, Edmonston, Hudson
lunley, C. F. Birekel, C. Wintter, J.
. Suttles, F. A. Levasseur, W. L.
lerring, and Dr. W. F. Bolton.
Approaching Event of Interest.
An out-of-town wedding over which
a large part of society here is es
pecially interested, is that of Miss
Nita Sims, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Nicholls Sims, of Donaldson
ville, La., to Hopkins Payne Breazeale,
invitations for which have been re
ceived here this week.
The wedding will be celebrated at
6 o'clock the afternoon of Wednes
day, November 22, at the Episcopal
church,'the Church of the Ascension,
in Donaldsonville, and the attendants
will include a number from New Or
leans. The bride will have as her
matron of honor Mrs. Shirley C.
Braselman, of this city, formerly Miss
Ford Stockdell; her maid of honor
will be Miss Alma Roger, of La
fourche parish, and the bridesmaid,
Miss Carmen Breazeale, of Natchi
toches, a sister of the bridegroom-to
be. Ross Breazeale, now of New Or
leans and an uncle of Mr. Breazeale,
will be best man, and the grooms
men, Dr. H. Vernon Sims, a brother
of the bride-elect, and George Jan
vier, of New Orleans. The ushers
will be: Messrs. Millard Perkins, C.
Vernon Porter, Jr., Lamar Baker-and
Herman Moyse, all of Baton Rouge.
Will Phillips, of Natchitoches, and
Karl Leche, of Donaldsonville. The
wedding will be of general interest in
Donaldsonville and the vicinity,
where Miss Sims' family connections
are so prominent and so numerous.
Mr. Breazeale is a son of Mrs. Camilla
Breazeale, of Natchitoches, and also
is a member of one of the very wide
ly known and prominent families of
the state. Both young people have
spent much time in New Orleans and
number many friends in society here
who will be particularly interested
in news of their approaching wedding.
-Times-Picayune, Nov. 7.
Big Battle Now On.
The greatest war in the world's his
tory is now going on in Europe, caus
ing all lines of merchandise to ad
vance sharply in price. The fight is
on. So is Jasmin Tobias' big war sak
now on. This great event will last
thirty days, giving the public the op
portunity of buying high class goods
at before the war prices. How can
it be done? That question is easily
answered. Our New York captain,
with eady cash on the bathe field.
was ctorious in securing to won
derfu bargains which will be offered
at this epoch-making sale. The list
includes dry goods, ladies' ready-to
wear, shoes for the entire family
men's furnishings, millinery, furni
ture and household supplies, and, in
fact, seasonable merchandise of al'
kinds. Space does' not permit us to
enumerate all the money-saving
values that will be offered. Come and
be convinced, as you have before, and
don't forget that every $5 purchase
entitles you to a beautiful piece of
crockery. Polite and courteous treat
ment to one and all.
Yours anxious to please,
JASMIN TOBIAS,
New Orleans Bargain Store.
We can figure with you on any.
thing in the printing line.
S. J. C. I. NOTES.
Monthly Test Held-Bro. Columban
Transferred to Natchez as Presi
dent of D'Evereux College-Bro.
Norbert of New Orleans Re
places Bro. Columban-Gregor
ian Choir Formed-Large In
crease in Attendance-French
Course Introduced.
Last week was one of extra en
thusiasm, as the regular monthly test
was held. The students in all the
grades showed the greatest interest
in the test, and, judging from the
large number of names on the apa
pended list, the test was a brilliant
success.
The serious illness of Bro. Charles
of St. Vincent's Academy, Baton
Rouge, n tated a change among
the presideW of several schools, so
Bro. Columban, vice president of the
local institution, was called to fill a
vacancy in Natchez, Miss. Bro. Nor
bert, of St. Aloysius College, New
Orleans, has replaced Bro. Columban.
The boy chair lately formed ren
dered "Missa De Angelis" at the 9
o'clock mass last Sunday, and al
though new at Gregorian singing, the
young choristers succeeded in execut
ing the difficult task without a flaw.
Rev. Father Chambon has been urg
ing the necessity of a choir for the
rendition of the Gregorian masses,
and now that his wishes in that re
spect are realized, h eels proud of
his boys and will s re no pains in
urging them to keep up the good
move. This is the only Gregorian
boy choir in the state.
A large number of new students
applied for admission in the school
during the past month, and at present
the roll far exceeds last year's at
tendance.
The Chardenal's complete French
course has been introduced in the
school, and all the students are de
lighted with the study of the French
language. In future, monthly tests
will be held in this course along with
the regular English test.
Successful students in last month's
test were as follows:
Tenth grade-Pierre Landry, Rob
ert Courreges, Clay Braud, Edward
Hanson.
Ninth grade-Carl Mollere, Louis
Picou, Francis LeBlanc, Maurice
Ramirez, Emanuel Hidalgo.
Eighth grade-Curtis Bourdier, Al
[en Mattingly, Armand Richard, Leo
Mattingly, Ulysses Hidalgo, Joseph
Fontana.
Seventh grade-Richard Hanson
Fohn Landry, Leo Melancon, Ayrau
.andry, Marcel Brou, Rene Gaudin,
biph SBetz, Claude Hernandez, Nick
ilano, Nichoas Eris, Normin ldi@
4!aurin, N. C&urreges, W. Doran, P.
fistretta, A. Veron, C. Graffelo, L.
3isclard, I. Mollere, C. Judice, M.
Lcosta, N. Falleta, C. Richard, A.
andry, A. Schroeder.
Fifth grade-J. Randazzo, A. Co
Dmb, L. Bourdier, J. Dalferes, G. Lan
Iry, S. St. Martin, J. Sanchez, B.
Blanchard, W. Eris.
Fourth grade-R. Landry, E. Hi
lalgo, C. Dabadie, G. Daigle, B. Lan
Iry, D. St. Martin, M. Rossi, A. Sar
idet, C. Truxillo, G. Mader, W. Le
3oeuf, J. Noel.
Third grade-C. Bellafiore, L. Gau
lin, L. LeBlane, D. Doran, F. Daigle,
.. Hidalgo, J. Pizzolatta, A. Bush, A.
Freille, 0. Thibodaux, J. Capella, J.
Brato, R. Lawless, T. Judice.
BOND ISSUE FOR GOOD ROADS.
State-Wide System of Improved
Highways Contemplated.
Declaring for a bond issue for a
;tate-wide and connecting system of
rood roads, the Louisiana Good Roads
kssocation adjourned a record-break
ng convention at Shreveport last Sat
irday. Governor Pleasant's state
ment with regard to the proposed
5ond issue was' greed with cheers.
Representative J. ce Aixander,
he new president of the association, is
also a member of the recently appoint
ed State Highway Commission au
thorized at the last session of the leg
islature, and which is to report in full
upon the question at the forthcoming
session. Governor Pleasant's other
appointees are Delos Johnson of
Amite, J. C. Barry of Lafayette, and
E. E. Lafaye of New Orleans. A fifth
member is yet to be named and prob
ably will come from northeast Louisi
ana.
P. M. Milner, the retiring presi
dent, made an address replete with
valuable in ation and statistics.
Said he in Mt: "Congress has ap
propriated $75,000,000 for federal
aid in the construction (not mainte
nance) of good roads. Louisiana's
apportionment is $6,750 for the first
year, $135,900 for the second year,
$203,850 for the third year, $271,
800 for the fourth year, and
$339,750 for the fifth year, or a
total of $1,019,250. The state must
put up an equal amount, and a
wise provision enables the state to
pay its half in materials and labor in
stead of cash, if it so desires. This
enables the state to obtain the full
use of its local recources."
The newly elected officers of the as
sociation are: President, J. Wallace
Alexander, of Alexandria; vice pres
idents, J. McW. Ford of Shreveport,
Martin Behrman of New Orleans, C.
A. Courtney of Lake Charles, Porteus
C. Burke of New Iberia, Walter
Lemann of Donaldsonville, Wm. Polk
of Alexandria, Thos. C. Barrett of
Shreveport, and P. M. Milner of New
Orleans; treasurer, L.M. Poole of New
Orleans; secretary, L. E. French of
Alexandria.
Sufferer from Indigestion Relieved.
"Before taking Chamberlain's Tab
lets my husband suffered for several
years from indigestion, causing him
to have pains in the stomach and dis
tress after eating. Chamberlain's
Tablets relieved him of these spells
right away," writes Mrs. Thomas
Casey, Geneva, N. Y. Obtainable
everywhere.- (Adv.)
Buy it in Donaldsonville.
