THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May I, 1W
SDcmocratic 3ournal, devotcd to Local and 6cnral 4Nws, Literature, ucs, ligricatts, 6t.
VOL. LXI COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1916 NUMBIR 4
" M i l e s "s tt
Grant Parish to Gravel 170 iles of Roads B
$300,000 Bond Issue for 30 Years Proposed for Grid- i
iron System of Gravel Roads Connecting all Iii
Points in the Parish
We print below an exact copy of the petition that is now being circulated in Grant parish for an
election to be held to order an issue of $300,000 of 30-year bonds for the purpose of buildingand
graveling 94 miles of roade, and also for graveling 64 miles of model roads already built. This sys- i
tem (including about 12 miles of roads already graveled) when completed will give Grant parish 170 Ii
miles of the finest graveled roads in the State. Our people are enthusiastic over the proposition, and e
there is no doubt the election will carry by an overwhelming majority. b
The following is the petition: a
To the Honorable Board of Supervisors of Grant Parish Road Dtotrict No. 8: 0
The undersigned property taxpayers, constituting one-fourth of the property taxpayers eligible to a
vote in the election puoposed herein, respectfully petition your honorable body to proceed according ii
to Article 281 f the Constitution of 1898, as amended by ct 132 of the Legislature o 191
adopted by the people in November of 1912, and any law applicable, and to order and hold an elec
tion in Road District Number Eight of Grantparish, Louisiana, to determine the proposition to in
cur debt and issue bonds of said Grant Parish Road District Number Eight. to the amount of Three i
Hundred Thousand ($300,000) Dollars to run for a period of thirty years, bearing interest at the rate
of five per cent per annum, the funds thus derived to be used for the purpose of constructing and a
raveling the following public roads in Grant prish: 1--A gravele road from Verda to Colfax, a
distance of 10 miles, to cost $1904 per mile, the cost of construction not to exceed $1000, the, the balance a
to be expended for gravel. 2-A graveled road from Verda to Fishville by way of Dry Prong and
Pollock, a distance of 30 miles to cost $1900 per mile, the cost of construction not to exceed $1000,
Pollthe balance to be expended for gravel. 3-A graveled road from a point on the Colfax-Rochelle
model road near Lincecum~ and extending to the Rapides parish line by way of Howcott, Sand Spur
and Pollock, a distance of 17 miles, to cost $1900 per mile, the cost of construction not to xceede
A1000, the balance to be expeded for gravel-c 4-A graveled road from the Winn parish line near
Crews to' the line of Rapides parish by way of Montgomery Coerle faXeand Bagdad, the samet being
lknown as the Jefferson Highway, a distance of about 33 miles (4 miles being graveled), to cost $4000
r e. 5-A road from the Phillips place to the LR. & b N. railroad, rossing, and also a road
from Aloha to J. W. O'Quinn's place, these two roads measuring four miles, to cost $1900 per mile, I
the cost of construction not to exceed $1000, the balance to be expended for gravel. Also all exist
ing model roads of Grant parish to be surfaced with gravel, as follows: The Colfax-Rochelle road, a
distance of 30 miles at a cost of $1000 per mile; the branch road to Pollock, a distance of 14 miles at
a cst or $1000 per mile; the Verda-Montgomery road, a distance of 8 miles at a cost of $1000 per
mie the (Ieorgetown-Prackton road, a distance of 12 miles at a cost of $1000 per mile.
Al{ the above roads, except the Jefferson Highway, to be built by the Supervisors with labor and
home labor to be given the preference.
A close nation of the list of roads above enumerated, shows that with but little exception
every community inrthebarish will have access to a good road. And in the one or two small. instances
of exception (in order to make the available funds go round) there are other resources that will be
otilised to give every community a good road. This being the case, we hope to see one and all sup
port-the proposition with the same enthusiasm that is so universally felt throughout the parish. It
is to the interest of one and all, and there is no good reason for opposition from any of our citizens.
For this reason the petitions should be promptly and universally signed.
.. . . . . - ... . ... .... -T - - .....  ,
O-e prceedias of the Grat Par- con
ish Police Jury. be 1
Colfax, La., Nov. 6, 1916.
The police jury met pursuant cep
to adjournment, with the follow- cue
ing members present: W. A.
Brownlee, president; J. M. Jones, in
J. J. Dewitt, O. C. Watson, C. ext
W. Calhoun, G. C. Purvis. Pol
The minutes of the proceedings
of the meeting held October 3 *
were read and approved.
Some of the patrons of the
Coltfax ferry on Red river, who
are most concerned as to the
management of said ferry ap
peared before the police jury and
requested that such action be
taken as may be necessary in
order .to quiet all disputes and
contentions about the ordinances
and resolutions of this police jury
governing the ferry adopted in
January, 1912.
On motion the following reso
lutiop was adopted:
Be it resolved by the police
jury of Grant parish, that it is
the understanding of this police
jury that the ordinance adopted
January 2, 1912, providing for
the control of the Colfax ferry
by the police jury of Natchitoches
parish intended that such con
trol should endure for a period
of ten years from the date of
that ordinance.
And be it further resolved that
this police jury approves the ac
tion of the police jury of Natchi
toches in offering to lease the said
ferry from this time on to the
expiration of the period of ten
years mentioned, at the rates
and on the terms published in
the advertisements recently made
by the said police jury of Natchi
teches parish.
The committee of free holders
appointed October 2, with refer
ence to a proposed change in the
location of a section of the Col
fax-Pineville public road at H.
1Autrtll's eld. made a report re
commending that the change not
be made.
On motion the report was ac
cepted and the committee dis
charged.
A petition was presented ask
ing that a public road be created
extending from a point on the
Pollock-Stay road at the four
it makesa th
est of his early thrift.
He is thankful that he didn't SQUANDER
money on extrvances or put it some et
p
1 Rich-Quick" scheme .
t The reason why the man with money has a real f
Thanksgiving is because he STARTED to bank his
i money a long time ago and is now reaping the har- I
d vest of his early thrift.
e He is thankful that he didn't SQUANDER his
nmoney on extravagances or put it in some "Get
Rich-Quick" scheme.
le He is thankful he IIANKED it. Are you thak*
i- ful that you have banked your money.
r BANK OF COLFAX
e Capital Stock, $25,000
Surplus, $22,500
son********- ***********
mile board by the Wiley Walker
place, thence to Garnett, and
thence to the parish line at the
place of Mr. Latin Ates.
On motion the petition was re
ceived and the following named
six free holders were appointed
as a committee of reviewers to
locate the said road and report
to the police jury: P. D: ,llen. tsapaI
B. F. Garlington, C. Delaney, L. 8.
Williford, John Crooks, John F. On a
Brown. journe
A petition wds presented ask- 8, 191'
ing that the proposed Lemoine
ferry public road be not estab
lished. In the absence of a re- MIs
port from the committee of re
viewers charged with the duty -
of locating said road, it was or- who
dered thgt action on the petition pean. a
be postponed. over a
A petition was presented ask- other
ing that a public road be estab- This '
lished to extend from the John egyt*
Kelly-place on the Montgomery- you ar
Calhoun road in a direction north ehrouii
by Mrs. Durhamn's place and seupt
along the line between the land '
of J. G. Chandler and E. C. by o
Worsham and intersecting a pub- ?
lic road about a half mile from &
Hargis. h
A petition was presented ask- ofice
ing that an election be ordered
in that part of ward seven west spa
I of Nantachi creek for the pur
pose of adopting a hog law for
j the territory described.
On motioni it was ordered that
e action on the petition be deferred.
r On motion the following reso
r lution was adopted:
Resolved by the police jury of
0 Grant parish that the pr t
d of this police jury be a l ir
hereby instructed to swuest the
superinrtendent of the Iron Moun
tain railroad to make a crossing
j at the point where the public
road from the Tliman place to
d Selma crosses amid railroad, the
same being about four hundred
in yards below the depot at Selma.
es On motion it was ordered that
beMr. C. H. McCain be paid the
P- sum of $25 to cover his expenses
It to and from New Orleans as a
a. representative from this parish
at the sessio in that city of the
National Farm Loan Board.
er On motion it was ordered that
nd the sum of $297 be paid on ac
he count of Jefferson Highway ini
tiation fee, eventual payment of
re- the same to be made out of the
d funds of that highway.
:ed On motion the president of the
ort police jury was authorized to exe
cute a note in favor of the Bank
of Colfax for $2000 to protect
parish expenditures nesessary at
this time.
On motion the following ordi
nance was unanimously adopted:
AN ORDIANC.
Section 1. Be it ordained by
the police jury of the parish of
Grant in lawful session convened,
that'in accordance with law sad
Article 292 of the Constitution of
1913, a road district within said
parish be and is hereby created .
which shall be known as Road -
District Number Eight.
Section 2. Be it further
dained that said road district
shall comprise all the territoy
in the parish of Grant.
Under the provisions of Act
No. 199 of the Legislature of
1916 the governing authority of
Road District Number 8 will be
the Board of Supervisom of mid
road district composed of al the
members of the school board of
SGrant parish and one member of
i the Board of Supervi3o to be
is appointed by the poMee tjory at
· this time.
Mr. H. L Brian, of Verda,
wrs appointed to be a member
o thBord of Supervlsrs of
SRoad District Number 8.
It lwas ordeld that the Bamrd
k. of Bopervisors of BRod Distriet
Number 8 be requested to meset
at thecort behe:in Colfasx at
S aoo on Monday, 0November 3,
H. .l Brtsh, G. A. A.ster slid
L SL Camerow n w me* m
committee t prpae a pad81BO
- obesaignd by tB ve
taxpayers of Road District No.
On motion the police jury ad- I
journed until Monday, January 
8, 1917. 1
- W. A. BaowNLE ,
President.
MIss H. E. CAMERON,
Clerk.
- New lashest.
When a cold hangs o as often hap
pens. or when yen have hardly pttek
over one cold before you contract am
other, lookout for you a Itable to
contract some very serious disease.
This succession of colds weakems the
system and lowers the vitality so that
you are much more liable to contrect
chronic edtrrh, pneumonia or, con
sumptios. Cure yoer cold while you
can. Chamberlains Cough Remedy has
a great reputation. It is relied upon
by thousands of le11e and never dis
appoints them.   it. It alt aos
S rter. Obtanable evryw -
dgistrate blanks at Chronicle
FARM
LOAN .
We are nowready to make first moatae losn a
improved farms and plantatis n anmounte fro
$1,000.00 to $50,000.00.
These loans will be mrde- anrsy arms 3Jof *
mest, rahging from e to te u
borrower's wishes.
Our interest rates are reassable, depeding op
the size and character of loda, end we So
excessive inspection fees or for eamat.
mlomae e mtr u s.
Farmers in need of loans wll finad it dvan
to write as for full Information, Instead of
many months for the problematice
Government land Bank or Faima AsIIrsp i
You can get the monery yo eed NOW--t reason.
able interest-favorable term of repat e
Spublcity-no double liabilty on y4 'gar
Io.s-no governmental redtape or lmiai...
Bankers Lohan i eS
Jr . a . r.. wass j'ww .
t Capital $i,5,WI.W NSW OULUAl
*; Less Vsaed ........ .......... ... ............:......
i. .... aw . ....... ....... ... * .............. :
A .. v ........ .......................................... ...............-.. .
Ss " ..e... ......... -- -...·* *.* ....... "" "":
4 REPU TATO
At Ls the onethling owhlh YOU IsIte
of ys l ay-- .
SDiamonds, Watches and Jew.
ld We Value our aglUTAION far aboe
Sth.,eIts on n5y 3mbet ss, andles .
betne to so tiotr bssees
at I REUTATION m.- U APV1) QtUyW
a  unann w u n anor" ra,
AU rpair work receives the mane cse and
ler atteatiom to dotlie that we giv to our m
of chandise.
We take merde r m at r '
dc Welre r the few in this who have
a wet dolt witl us to de b* Who bne
SC. A Sch ack'Jewelry (b.,
. aeoe ar MEISaL hmhA
tips -
hi C~b bu Uttlrml~mS Ole,:
all
start with a tiN . ~a Sa e. a
tbroat" a tight eh.ail. Ye. knew
gympeams d .etl., -i70
pmpt tratsmt wilt"r trsashr
Dr. 11mg's Ne w Disc pry. iy h
Atw ior 1u, ..,
Smahomie ~ri
nhIMEL WNSh~g
Uabsed &d for the 1R;
Ilr!lr`t
Used IP~d Roadster tier~3
Applyto P.O. Ron 11 COelfa.,.:
" Tess Ppmly per sid `:.
AI~dr ft l kr51c sees~
. a e h s b ar s m d u h a d e m
deterem. See A ILM GOdwy.
