The Sun Goes to 36 States
and Canada. Are
Your Relatives and
Friends Getting It?
Do You Know That Ad
vertising is the Life of
Trade and the a Only
Real Business Getter
VOLUME IX. NUMUER 11.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1910.
PRICE, 5c.
This Should Be a Good Winter For Revivals
Y. Ma GJ. Notes
Tho St. Augustine "Vollofy Ball Team
will play a picked team from the Noon
Day Class Thanksgiving evening at
8:15 p. in. Tho public is Invited.
MOVING ABOUT.
By Benj. V. Longdon.
One of tho noticeable features of
modern features of modern life Is the
Increase of motion. City, town, nor
country peoplo no longer live .inmthe
spot where they were born or If they
do they break tho monotony by tak
ing trips and extending .their knowl
edge of llfo by observing different
customs and new aspects of llfo.
Dear reader, owing to the wldo cir
culation of this weekly publication,
we aro loath to say that you live in
Kansas City, Mo. But if your home
is in town or tho country, try to
know tho city people. You need to
learn how to hold yourself In the
crowd. You need to know how to
think amid constant and various
noises. You need to know that hu
manity Is about the same everywhere,
in city or country,, and while the earth
about your rural homo has Its uni
formity with slight differences in hfll
and plain, so Its product are very
nearly alike. All too soon you may
have learned them or not. Fato man
ages without our advice and strange
things happen.
Now if your homo Is In the city
get to tho country as often as you can.
The tallest buildings you have
watched them reared skyward. The
boulevards, avenues and broadwalks
you know sand and cement and j forth every cffortW) rid the com
Tho above is the likeness of Dr.
F. F. Moten of Los Angeles, Calif.,
who has been appointed' Evangelist
of the State of Missouri by Bishop
H. B, Parks of the A. M. E. Church.
Bishop Parks has taken this' step as
he now sees the need of a soul-saving
man in the district. He knew of Dr.
Moten's work in Kansas nnd Califor
nia together with the popular demand
of the people and ministry and made
the appointment. '
Rev. Moten is a plain gospel minis
ter, a soul stirring preacher; a sweet
singer .and ripe scholar; a student of
Prairie View State Normal, a gradu
ate of Paul Quinn College, pastored
some of the leading churches in
Texas; was Presiding Elder for years
and is now recognized as one of the
.best preachers of the A. M. E. Con
- nection. He closed one of the great
est revival meetings ever held on the
Pacific Coast just befgre leaving Cali
fornia.
Rev. Moten will begin his work in
Missouri with Rev. J. F. Sage and con
gregation on Woodland avenue near
12th stree Sunday morning at 11:00
o'clock. All Christian workers aro in
vited to attend these services. It will
be an old fashioned revival. Souls must
be converted to Christ: backsliders
must be reclaimed and the Christian
must bo strengthened. Those looking
for deeper truths will find solace in
these meetings. The A. M. E.
Churches of greater Kansas City are
.called on to rally for God and His
Christ Let the Christian people make
a joyful noiso unto the Lord. Let us
praise God and work for Him as men
have worked for men in the campaign.
In fact this Is a campaign for Heaven
Are you a-voter? Will you read this
come and vote for Jesus? Come on
on the 12th street car. Stop at Wood'
land.
HOLDEN, MO.
By Charles Pratt. r
, Mrs. Laura Walton, of Wellington,
Mo., passed away at her home, Octo
ber 30, at the age of 72" years. She
leaves a husband, two children and a
host of friends and other relatives to
mourn her loss. Many persons, white
'and colored, attended the funeral to
pay their last respect to this worthy
woman. Mr. Jessie Smith, Mr. and
Mrs. Sherman Browri, of Holden, and
Mr. and Mrs. Nelson, of Odessa, at
tended the funeral. .. .Refuge lodge
held Its regular meeting the 1st Satur
day and a majority of the brethren
were in attendance. .. .Mr. Henry
Lawrence, of St. Louis, is the guest
of his brother and sister, Mr. Tom
Lawrence and Mrs. Bell Nevins, of
this city.... Mrs. Norman Little, of
Kansas City, came down to spend
some time with her mother-in-lawl
Mrs. Henry jacoDS, or worm women
....The North Side Opossum club is
ahead of the South Sido Hunting club,
having killed 64 rabbits Mr. Tom
Lawrence is not improving. ...Mr.
Edd Doodd was a guest in Warrens-
burg Monday on business.... Mrs,
Stella Comb3 is doing nicely with her
school so far and hope it may con'
tlnue thus.
sas City, Kansas, with his daughter,
Mr. Madison Jones and Mr. Jones..
Miss Maybelle, the youngest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Hopkins and
Mr. Virgil Frye, of Kansas Clty, were
united in marriage last Monday night,
October 30, at the home of the bride's
parents, 321 Dakota. .. .Itev. A. J,
Sounders, of the Bethel A. M. E,
church performed tho ceremony in the
presence of the family anl a limited
number of very intimate friends. Mr.
and Mrs. Frye left immediately after
the reception for their future home
in Kansas City, Kansas. Out of town
guest was Mrs. Mary Frye, a grand'
mother of the groom of Kansas City,
Kansas.... Mr. and Mrs. S. T. Jones
were the week-end guests of Mrs.
Rosa Jones in Kansas City, Mo..
Mr. Thos. H. Barbee, Sr., has gone to
Chicago, 111., for a permanent res!
dence with his son, Charles Barbee,
and daughter, Mrs. Ab Snodan.
LEAVENWORTH, KANSAS.
Rev. A. J. Saunders, the newly ap
pointed pastor of Bethel A. M. E
church, preached his first sermon 'Sun
day, to a large and appreciative audi
ence.,..Mr. Xanthewese Runyon left
Tuesday for Wllbeforce to resume his
studies.... Mrs. Albert Conway and
Mrs. R. E. Anderson spent the week'
end In Kansas City with friends.
The Progressive Study club held the
first meeting of the season' last Sat
urday with Mrs, John Glass on Penn,
avenuo....The Lincoln Parent-Teach
ers' association held their first meet
ing of the peason last Tuesday night
and elected officers. Prof. M. E.
Moore addressed the meeting,.,. The
Charity Ball by the Kansas State Pro
tective Home association for the aged
and orphans was a great success. The
ladles of the board for the Homo want
to thank the Conors and patrons for
tho same.... Mrs. M. J. Runyon left
Wednesday for Hutchinson, Kansas,
to join Rev. Runyon, who is stationed
there. . . ;Detochment No. 2 Colored of
Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas, held Its
first horse show In therldlng hall last
Saturday which, was enjoyed by a
large crowd.... Mrs. RobL Sharp en
tertained the T. E. O. class with a
luncheon Saturday. .The guests wore
Mrs. W. S. Mitchell and Mrs. B. it
Bruce.- Fourteen members were pres
ent and an oujoyijblo time was bad
....Mrs. Alonzo Hazelwood left Fri
day for Dotrolt, Mich., to visit her
three sons, the Messrs. Hazelwood.
Mrs. Hazelwood will' bo gone all win
ter, . . .The Clover Leaf club met last
Friday with Mnu C. B. Carter on Da,
kota street. The next meeting will
too with Mrs. G. W. Lyman.,.. Mr. B,
H. Nowlln spent last Sunday in Kan
, LINCOLN, NEBR.
By W. W. Mosely.
'porn to Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Butcher
on last Sunday morning a fine baby
boy. Both aro doing well. . . .Attorney
Clinton Ross visited Omaha on pro
fessional business Thursday, and Fri
day of last week.... Tho Stewardess
Board of the A. M. E. Church gave a
voting contest in the form of a mock
election. The Republican nominee got
255 votes and the Democrats 236. The
amount raised was $21.85, A social
good time was had. . . .Messrs. Paul L,
Moore and O. J. Burchhardt are out
again after being confined on account
of minor in juries.... Sunday will be
Quarterly Conference at the A. M. E.
Church. Presiding Elder J. C. C.
Owens will be present to conduct the
services,.,. The election was so over
whelmingly Democratic that wo will
be wondering for some time.
crushed rock. Out in the, country is
tho God-mado world. And as Heine
tells us, God produces tho greatest
results with tho simplest means.
These are simply, sun and water,
flowers and love. Of course if you
be without love the whole will pre
sent but a pltful appearance; and in
that case the sun Is merely so many
Tho basket ball aspirants of the
night class are working hard and the
public will see some classy basketball
this winter. Dr. J.iE. Perry donned
his first gymnasium' suit on last Tues
day night. S
-? 4
There were twenty boys of tho as
sociation at the polling places on elec
tion day giving men instructions on
how to voto on the Tlijlrd Amendment.
Parents of these boys' should bo glad
that their sons had nV,part in fighting
for the great moral IsAue of the day.
The large audiences to hear talks
directed against thejraoral influence
of the saloon, the past two Sundays,
conclusively proves j that a goodly
number of our colored men are an
xious to seo the city cleared of the
saloon and the saloon influences. Mr,
Beardsley's earnest and fearless ar
raignment of the saloon followed by
the spicy talks by Mr. L. A. Knox,
Dr. B. F. Foster anii Rev. R. Davis
sent the men out last Sunday to put
munlty of tho grog-Btiop.
m '
Tho week of prayer, November 12
19, will be observedJTby the Young
Men's Christian Associations through
out the world. SundVy afternoon 3:30
o'clock, Dr. Van Loo will open the
series of prayer meetings with an ad
dress on "Prayer" and wlH follow this
1
Jubilee
Singers
. .. l 'FROM FISK UNIVERSITY Jvfe?- '
SPECIAL MATINEE THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16.
Three O'clock P. M.
AT THE LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL
The L. II. S. Parent-Teachers' Association was especially
fortunate in securing these world famous singers for thjs one
appearance exclusively for their patrons. Their first time here.
MRS. F. D. GLEED , President
MRS. ROSA JONES Secretary
PROF. J. R. E. ,LEE. . . . ; .. . . .Principal
WILLIAM II. DAWLEY, JR Chairman
T. BOLDEN STEWARD Secretary
Ways and Means Committee.
CHILDREN 15 CENTS. ADULTS 25 CENTS
miles In diameter, the trees are good j
for fuel, the flowers aro classified
by stamens and water is simply wet.
Would you get close to the hand
of tho almighty? Now Is the time
to see its work in nature in the open
country. Would you get close to the
heart of the father? You have an
other opportunity to study tho chil
dren of the Father tho crowd' of hu
manity in tho city. So W conclude
that for you and I as. well as the.blrds
and the bees to" have a source and
spring of llfo ever sweetening and
freshening its waters during these hot
and sultry days, we must fight off the
first symptoms of daadness of mind
or of spirit by moving about. '
'with a short talk eaclf evening at 8
p. m. on this theme at the Paseo build
ing. There will be each day of the
week several informal group prayer
meetings In the building. These will
Include services In the various' gym
nasium classes and lmpromptulobby
group services.
CHILLICOTHE, MO. '
By B. V. Longdon.
Mrs. Georgo Wright and son, Clar
ence, of Mexico, Mo., spent several
days visiting friends last week..."!
Mrs, Beatrice Robinson of St. Joseph,
Mo., was the- guest of Mr. and Mrs.
Clem Brown last Friday. . . .Mrs. Maud
Wilkerson of Des Moines, la., and
Mrs. 'Mlra Douglass of Minnesota are
visiting Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Row
land.... Mr. and Mrs. W. W. .Fields
and Mr. Fields motored from; Cam
eron, Mo., last Sunday in company
with Prof, and Mrs. Virgil Williams
and Mrs. Emma Longdon, They re
ported an enjoyable afternoon as the
guest of Mr, and Mrs. Henry Wil
liams..., The . Halloo'en entertain
ment at Garrison School last Tuesday
night under the auspices of tho Par
ent-Teachers' Association was well at
tended. Tho decoration, the pumpkin
pies ucd the cider .and tho ginger
cake very near vied with the masked
drill of tho primary pupils in the ef
fort to mako tho event novel and
unique. This association under the
leadership ot Mrs. Fannio Alnutt and
tho unlte'd membership is destined to
be of immeasurable value to Garrison.
SECOND BAPTIST CHURCH.
The pastor. Dr. Bacote, preached In
the morning and In the evening the
services were devoted to covenant
meeting. Last Friday Rev. Fifefleld,
Rev. Foster, Mrs. Johnson and Mrs.
Becks made great talks In tne lec
ture room in the interest of Prohi
bition. Sunday, November 12, the
pastor, choir nnd congregation of the
Ebenezor church, 16th and Lydla, and
the Bethel church, 24th and Flora,
will co-operate in our big rally to
clear the floating indebtedness of the
church.
Now that the campaign Is over The
Sun intends to became the newsiest,
brightest and best Negro newspaper
published in the west
We want one more hustling, active
boy to sell The Sun on the street Sat
urdays and Sundays. Salary or commission.
Europe Has Shrunk.
'An extremely interesting map of
Europe, during tho third intorglaclal
age,' shows land extending far Into the
Atlantic. -with rlvero where aro now
tho English and Irish channels, tne
Shannon river beginning a little out
to sea from its present moutn ana tne
Rhine flowing Into tho Arctic ocean
at a point twice aB far from its pres
ent mouth as the modern river la long.
What these rlverwould bo In the good
year 1916 was uot one of the things
that bothered the doughty plltdown
man, Ecanthropus Dawaoni, who
scampered about Britain at that time,
estimated at 100,000 to 300,000 years
ago.
Grocer and Butcher.
"I never worry over other people's
troubles."
"I do. There are a couplo ot men
down the street whose troubles give
mo a lot of worry." ,
"What aro their troubles!"
"My debts," Boston Evening Trail-
p Crist. -
HOW TO CREATE PERSONALITY
Practice the Real Smile, the Hearty
Handshake and Musical Voice If
You Would Succeed.
To discuss personality without mea
tlonlng a pleasant smile and a genial
handshake would bo as Incomplete as
' . , 1 1.1...... van
tlonlng exorcise. A natural smllo Is
readily obtained after one has acquired
a musical laugh, wholesome thoughts
and a pleasant voice. A forced smllo
is easily detected and usually arouses
suspicion, as It is considered a mask.
It is the forced smile that usually re
sults In facial contortion. The genuine
smile prompted by cheerfulness is ac
complished by slightly parting the lips,
gently raising the corners ot tho
mouth; and is completed by a happy
expression In the eyes. Stand before
your mirror and see how easily you
can be convinced that this Is true, also
how well It will pay you to wear a
genuine smile. The handshake needs
no practice, only remember that a firm
grip nnd a hearty shake inspire confi
dence and aro a token of frankness
and accord with spontaneous laughter
and a well-placed musical 'voice.
To prove conclusively that person-
ality can be acquired by anyone, J have
even seen Invalids change an Irritable
and unattractive personality to one of
cheor nnd sunshine, winning all who
came in contact with them and accom
pllshing for themsolves many more
hours ot happiness and many less
hours of pain. It you will but conacl.
entlously carry out these instructions
you will soon have a personality which
attracts, giving pleasure to your
friends and great satisfaction to your"
self.' Tho Christian Herald.
PORO CLUB MEETS.
Chicago, 111., Nov. 8. The Chicago
Poro Club, omposed of 150 agents of
me ruro i;ouege, au iouis, mo., neiu
Its annual meeting at the Wabash
Avenue Y. M. C. A. auditorium, 363
Wabash Avenue, with Mr. and Mrs.
Malono guest. Mrs. Mattio Campbell,
president of , the club, called the meet
ing to order. A happy spirit pervaded
the meeting. Mr. Malono opened the
meeting with n short but brilliant
talk on the aim and purpose ot the
meeting, stating that he was highly
pleased tot seo such a largo number
interested in the work. He told of
how ho and his wife worked day and
night for the interest of their agents
and the good being accomplished. He
said there were 8,000 agentsworking
for the Poro concern and that the of
fice received on an average of 400
letters per day, requiring ten stenog
raphers and ten clerks and that a
total number of twenty-fivo young
women were employed at the plant.
Mr. Malono' said -with emphasis: "We
are working to give positions and
places to the young women of our
race. The agents are making it pos
sible. We had had such meetings at
Birmingham, Atlanta and Montgomery
and they have been a howling suc
cess. If things don't go right we want
you to help make it go right. We
want Poro to stand out as one of the
great concerns of the day and it can
do that with your help." Cary B.
Lewis of the Chicago Defender spoke
on "Efficiency," after which the meet
ing took on tho form of a school. For
two hours questions pro and con per
taining to tho work was discussed by
tho members of the club. A photo
grapher was called and a picture in
front of the $225,000 Y. M. C. A. was
taken. There was a few minutes so
cial hour when the members returned
to the auditorium where the club lis
tened to an address by Mrs. Malone.
Her charming personality, sweet
voico and business-like manner at
tracted the attention of the agents,
many of whom had never seen the
discoverer of Poro, which is the
"Rage" of the age for the hair. At
her fingers end she had a hundred
and one points to tell the agents how
to "make their business a success.
Mrs. Malone said their object at all
times was to protect agents. She
made it plain that she refused to sup
ply agents who would not keep up the
prices. There was one agent in the
city who did not keep the rule of the
Poro office and sho has been erased
from the Poro list. This in particular
has shown the business-like methods
of tho office. Mrs. Malone spoke of
how loyal the agents should be to their
patrons, displaying at all times cour
tesy and best of treatment; that it
meant a great deal to them and the
Poro business. Mrs. Malone became
very delfverate when she said: "We
must work zealously. Work to help
some one else. Tell each other of their
faults, but do it in a Christian-like
manner; be friendly; you may criti
cise but never become harsh. Don t
stay in the club If you have not its
interest at heart. Attend the club
meeting., Don't work on each other's
customers; go in new fields; spread
out, there is plenty room. Ten thou'
sand more agents could be used and
you not disturbed." She praised the
officers and members of the Chicago
club and said she expected great
things from them. Mesdames Betts,
Robinson, Weathers and Jackson were
appointed on a committee of place
where the club was to meet regularly,
Tho officers aro Mrs. Mattle Camp
bell, President; Mrs.' Bertha James,
Vice President; Mrs. Rosa Williams,
Secretary; Mrs. Mary Thomas, Assist
ant Secretary; Mrs. P. N. Robinson,
Treasury, and Mrs. Bjrdie Betts,
Chanlln. "God Be With You Until
Wo Meet Again" closed one' of the
most interesting meetings Mr. and
Mrs. Malono have attended In the In
terest of their agents.
MRS. IDA M. BECKS
x
One of Kansas City's most talented women under whose direction a mag
nificent rendition of "Up from Slavery" was given at the Second Baptist
Church Friday night.
At the Closed Gate of Justice
To be a Negro in a day like this
Demands forgiveness. Bruised with blow on blow
Betrayed, like Him whose woe-dimmed eyes gave bliss,
Still must one succor those who brought one low,
To be a Negro in a day like this.
To be a Negro in a day like tins
Demands rare patience patience that can wait
In utter darkness. 'Tis the path to miss,
And knock, unheeded, at an iron gate,
To be a Negro in a day like this. '
To be a Negro in a day like this
Demands strange loyalty. We serve a flag
Which is to us white freedom's emphasis.
Ah ! one must love when truth and justice lag,
To be a Negro in a day like this.
To be a Negro in a day like this
Alas! Lord God, what evil have we done?
Still shines the gate, all gold and amethyst,
But I pass by, the glorious goal unwon,
"Merely a Negro" in a day like this!
James D. Corrothers.
Busy and Useful Life.
William Murray Black, who has
been appointed chief of engineers of
the army, Is recognized as one ot the
most prominent engineers of the coun
try. Born in Lancaster, Pa., ho gradu
ated from West Point in 1877. Ho was
long engaged on river and harbor im
provements. Important xwork was
carried on under his direction in Por
to Rico and Cuba, and he was senior
member ot the board charged with
raising tho wreck of the battleship
Maine. Among the books which he
has written aro "Improvements of
Harbors" and "Public Works of tho
United States." He has also contrib
uted to various periodicals.
Pony Petted by Three Generations.
John Malta, deputy sheriff ot Lewis
ton, Me., owns a Shetland pony which
is probably the oldest In Maine; she is
thirty-five years old, and has been the
pet of threo generations ot Malla chil
dren. She is as affectionate as a dog
and has been made so.prlvlleged a fa
vorite that she is as much at home In
tho house as in the barn.
t '1
REV. J. W. HURSE, D. D.
Pastor of St. Stephen's Baptist Church, who mads a splendid fight
for the Republican ticket, State and Nation.
WESLEY MILLER DEAD. ,
Wnalftv Mlllnr. alxtv-three vears of
Tree Prevents Suicide.. " ,,, , ,.,
Driven to attempt sulcid- jy the . ....... j, j .
failure ot her father on the - xcJc ex- Known mos- ln 1018 aloa a"er a
change, and consequent poverty, a brief illness at hls residence, 1516
young Japanese girl recently threw Michigan avenue. Mr. Miller was
nerseit into ino ocean irom no iop- DOrn jn Lexington, Ky nnd leaves
most cliff ot the sacred Islo ot Eno- t0 mourn his demlso a wife, daugh
shims, Sho was caught and pinioned ter. threa sisters-lnJaw ' and two
oy tne nrancnesi a giam iree wnicn. brothers-in-law, oile granddaughter
leaned tar out over me sea. u was nnrt two oni,ews. ThiTfuneral fwin
not until 17 hours later that her cries hn hMrt Rlln(lHV nt 2!0( o'clock from
were heard by a fisherman passing in a neVj jenkas chufch, 16th and Mich-
sampan ana sue was rescued, serious- lean avenuo. Mr Miller was well
ly, tu$ not mortally nurtj llked Dy'oU who taew nlm ana for
several years was an, employo ot Tho,
Sun.
Bird Killed by Qolf Ball.
Tho Plnehurst Country club vriU
have stuffed and placed In the club
house tho robin killed by.Mrs. Ronald
H. Barlow with a golt ball drive.
Mrs. Barlow, who won the woman's
north and south links championship,
topped a teo drive in her final matchj
and It went into a group ot roblnsj
feeding a few yards away. The bait
killed ono ot the birds. PlnehuM (m
C.) Dispatch to the New York Suh,J
