THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 204.
BAHltE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, NOVEMRER ll, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
BRITISH CARRY
1000 YARDS
Stormed German Trenches
Over Wide Front of
Somme
' ATTACK WAS MADE
DURING LAST NIGHTi
out on the enemy's communications, bil
lctts and stores. Air fighting was al
most continuous.
"Ono of our squadrons of 30 machines
encountered a squadron of from 30 to
40 iiiacJimes. An aerial buttle took place
and the enemy squadron was broken up
and dispersed. Six of his machines were
seen to commence to fall out of control,
but owing to the Be verity of the fighting
it wan not possible to watch them to the
ground.
"A the result of other fights nine
more hostile machine were driven down
in a damaged condition, throe of which
are known to have been destroyed. A
hostile kite balloon was also attacked
and sent down in flames.
"Seven of our machines are missing."
In Dobrudja the Army ofj
Von Mackensen Is Fall
ing Back
FRENCH AVIATOR
BRINGS DOWN
21 ST MACHINE
Lieut. George Guynemer Given Special
Distinction in Official Statement
Issued at Paris To-day.
Paris, Nov. 11. Second Lieutenant
London, Nov. 11. The war office an- George Guynemer, the famous French
Iiounces that German trenches over a aeronaut H recently brought down
I I) in a fl nrni an oirnlnn i in urn imnniaa
front of 1,000 yards on the Somme front - "- b'
were stormed last night by the British. cmlitod by the Mar om-c in to-day' offi
cial statement with having destroyed
I ...... . -.. 1. : , 'T'l. : . :
VON MALKtiJNS5HJN creases to 21 the number lrmight down
rn T-i t t rTn t 4 rV hy this aviator. Three other German air-
13 TiLJUl.iU UAV1 planes were des
WILSON LEADS
IN POPULAR VOTE
Has Plurality of 403,312, As
Well as Majority in Elec
toral College
MEXICAN TROOPS
RETAKE PARRAL
APPARENTLY WINNER
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE
Chairman Willcox Is Stil
Awaiting Official Count Be
fore Conceding Defeat
Great German General Is Being Defeated
Jn Dobrudja Bulgarian Civilians
Flee from Province.
London. Nov. 11 A Bucharest dispatch
forwarded from Rome to the Wireless
cstroyed yesterday bv the
French in fighting on the western front
FAIL. TO RECAPTURE POSITION.
Russian Forces Broken Down with Heavy
Losses Says Berlin.
Berlin, via wireless, Nov. 11 "Russian
use
... L':-l. n f ...-!,.. 1 v m lne.l
I .ess report "; - " forces yesterday tried in vain by the
ensen retreat .i,uuM.uj- -M.v...1. r recapture th
ml the Bulgarian P0P''n fle,n portion stormed bv us the day previou
from Dobrudja to Bu garm at skrobow PRr-Baranovichi. All at
r.. ,! a 4 ... hava "
ieaipa.c..y. "tacks were broken down under heavy
L.n nluapviu m direction ot i coer- I . .
' v ' " " . ,m:ar nt losses, says an official state
navoda and Constanza, the terminal of ir'' ,.-,, t.
.. . , a 4i. ni-i, or., I man troops penetrated the
Iv. nA !.. ), Tilack sea and "lan "P8 Peiraiea
the Danube and that it is possible those slan P'twn,
towns were fired preparatory to evacu
ation by the Teutonic forces
ment. Ger
main Rus-
COMMEND CHOICE OF WILSON.
English Press Thinks Him Well Suited
to Carry on the Part
London, Nov. 11. In an editorial on
the result of the presidential election in
RUSSIANS BOMBARDED
RUMANIAN SEA PORT
. -.. the United States, the Daily News re-
Great Damage Done in Constanza City d8 VreM(,nt Wilson's election as a
Set Fire to and Burned for triumph both for his personality and
his policies. 1 he newspaper adds:
xwo ways. In thig eountry it i8 inevitable that
London. Nov. 11. A Russian bombard- P?1"""4 tr?M T' ' " la.,(1 ?B
ment of the Rumanian Black sea port
of Constanza is
President Wilson's attitude towards the
..m t.. l?W- P.trn. European war and it will be learned
rrad correspondent to have inflicted great th ref, fhat V'e l""i.t"(J
5 u ' : t ,..,;., -j ror.K. States will be guided in the four critical
uauiaue. iu-bi-i runs si imluic w n.-..- , , , . , r a i a l
tha exploded and the resultant fires, months ahead, not by a defeated but by
fanned by the wind, spread rapidly and a "comnussioned president,
burned for two days, the dispatch says. disguised r conw-
Bulgarian shore batteries were silenced t.on that Mr. Wilson i qualified, as is
nH hm lnssoa were n A cted on the "" "". ' """
- - 11,- JD
A .1-.l-
earnson. A uerman seaplane, wnicn
attempted to bombard the Russian
iquadroa, was brougat down.
ATTACKING GERMANS
inies of his country at this time
and particularly in the field of domestic
policy, and we desire as little ss possible
to disguise our satisfaction that the
reins of power are to remain in his ca
pable hands."
THa TIaiIv Tplpirrnnli -nva "Tf la i.lfnr
VYr.lVl MXCdl VLaHIUU that whatever his difficulties with do
mestic affairs may be, a man of President
rhey Sustained Heavy Losses at Denie- Wilson's character has now the opportu
' Inity of eivmg new weight to the inflii-
court Last Night, According ence of the trreatest neutral nation the
most powerful trustee of the interests of
humanity in connection with the world
Paris. Nov. 11. German forces at-1 war. If he can be sure of a majority in
tacked last nieht -at Deniecourt on the Congress he can be ure of decisive sup
Somme front and were repulsed by the port for a clear and vigorous line of
French, who inflicted heavy losses on policy with regard to those questions of
them, the. war nice announced to-day. American rights which have most pro-
loundiy stirrea the mmas ot nis country
ITALIAN OFFENSIVE FAILS. men and we do not doubt that the second
Wilson administration will approach that
New York, Nov. 11. With Republican
National Committee Chairman Willcox
still awaiting an official count in the
close states before conceding defeat to
Charles fc. Hughes in the national elec
tion, the latest returns to-day in the
close states of California, Minnesota
New Mexico and New Hampshire still
presented on their face no change affect
ing President Wilson's majority in the
electoral college.
President Wilso n still led in Califor
nia and New Mexico and apparently in
.New Hampshire, with only a, few dis
tricts yet to be accounted for in each
state. The president's plurality over
Hughes in the total popular vote, accord
ing to the latest estimates, based upon
incomplete returns, is 4i:j,:n2. His total
vote was 8,503,713, and that of Hughes
8,10,401.
In the '(torsi college Wilson appar
cntly has 276 and Hughes 255.
SPLIT VOTE POSSIBLE
IN CALIFORNIA
to French Report.
Austrians Think It Will Not Be Re- part of its task with purpose re-e.mpha-
Vienna., Thursday, via London, Nov.
11, 2:57 a. m. Delayed reports received
NEW NATIONAL MONUMENT.
Government
As a result of recommendations made
here from the Isonzo front show that CrMted in AUska By the VniM sutM
1 1. la n Tali.. nJFnnQlir. Off.Tn a h I
UIO mtrsb 4i-aiia.il .u iii-i i u nntuo. uiv
Austrian positions barring the road to
Triest was the shortest, most costly and
trfoBt resultless operation yet undertaken by the secretary of, agriculture, the "Old
Jy Gen. Cadorna. The reports add that Kassan National monument," consisting
the Italians met with unusual terrain 0f 38 acreg within the Tongass national
lifficulties, because the present Austrian forest, Alaska, has just been created by
positions are favorably located as a rule, presidential proclamation. The tract em
Bo far there are no indication's to re- braces the well known abandoned liaida
lume the offensive there soon.
RUSSIANS FORCED BACK.
By Germans on a Front of Two and One-
Half Miles.
Indian village of Old Kassan, situated
on Prince of Wales island in southeast
ern Alaska, about 30 vulva west of the
city of Ketchikan.
The village was abandoned by the In
dians about 10 years ago. Among the
1 . .!. ; .1 ..I 4 Kl
London, Nov. 11. Driving against the I",.0 " " ""
enter of the Russian line on the east- lnula" vul.e,n P",e8' .uy "r "V1 vl ."",v;"
jrn front German troops have aine1 "e dassed as exceedingly good specimens.
possession of Russian positions on a , " .l,ra'',e
front of about two and a half miles. The 'nrge ""e build.ngs wh.ch were
UUck, which resulted also in the cap- "''e'""" "cl"r'"'K '-
tl ,, ;.- 4 'i, peculiar plan of the llama Indians, and
hire of more than 30(H) prisoners, took .4.. . 4 v
.1--. ! 4V.- j:.-:,. f qi,--v... 10 which, it is stated by those best quail-
iniles northeast of Baranovichi, north of fied to,k"OW TeKPen thlrh spen"
he Pinsk marshes and where only iso-
Republicans Were Claiming Three of the
State's 13 Votes in Electoral
College.
San Francisco, Nov. 11. California
politicians have settled down to prepare
for a vigilant surveillance of semi-official
count of the state by county clerks, and
the final count by the secretary of state.
VII fucure proceedings, leaders of Jboth
parties agreed, will hinge upon what de
velops in these counts.
At 6 o clock last night Wilson led in
the state bv 3.288 votes. With 18 pre-
incts missing the count stood: Hughes
462,813, Wilson 4tl.009.
Chester H. Rowel!, chairman of the
Republican state central committee, and
O. K. dishing, chairman of the Demo
cratic state central committee, agreed
that the outlying precincts still to be
heard from would not make much differ-
nee in the official returns. They differed
as to the official count, Mr. dishing
claiming the state and Mr. Rowel claim
ing a split delegation in the electoral
college. The Republicans expected to get
three of the 13 electors and pprhaps more.
J.egal counsel has been retained by Re
publicans and Democrats to aid in watch
ing the final counts. In addition, deputy
U. S. marshals and secret service men
have been detailed in the large counties.
Returns from incomplete precincts
were obtained with extreme difficulty.
A stage starting from the shores of Lake
Tahoe with one missing precinct, was un
able to proceed through the snow. The
driver came through on snowshoes to
Plaeerville, which is the town of Bret
According to Report Received from Gen
eral Murgla at El Paso To-day.
Santa Rosalia Also Captured.
tagle Pass, Texas, Nov. 11. Mexican
do facto troops under Om-ral Murgia
nave recaptured lairnl and Santa Ros
alia, according to a report received here
to-day, which said a message signed by
Murgia, stating that these towns had
been retaken, was received last night.
NO ARREST MADE.
In Island Pond Murder Following Elec
tion Argument.
Island Pond, Nov. 11. No arrests have
been made since tho killing of 15-year-
old Archie Reggie on the street in this
village last Wednesday night, state's
Attorney Powell says he has discovered
several important clews. It is generally
believed that several of uie crowd of
rowdies who engaged in an election ar
gument know who fired the shot that
killed the boy.
It is thought by many that the slayer
of Reggie has not made any attempt to
leave town, providing lie was a resident
of this place, doubtless waiting for the
WILSON SHUTS
OFF POLITICS
BARRE DECIDED ON
AS EXHIBIT CITY
Preferred to Remain Quiet
ly with Relatives at Wil
liamstown, Mass.
TELEGRAMS POURING
IN BY HUNDREDS
Wilson Calls on People to
"Unite for Common
Service"
excitement to subside. On the othc
hand it is thought by some that the
murderer got too much of a start of the
officers and is now in New Hampshire
or has secreted .himself in the forest
between here and the Canadian border in
the belief that he can put himself bevond
the reach of ermont authorities.
If the murderer expects to get across
the border he will find himself beoet
with many difficulties as the Dominion
authorities keep a strict watch for un
desirables during tAie war, and the man
would have slight chance to get far into
Canada before being" apprehended
the killing of Keggie was the most
wanton sacrifice of human life which has
occurred in this part of Vermont for
many years. 1 he boy was Upon the
streets of this village in common with
otihers Wednesday night and came upon
crowd, it is alleged, of quarreling
toughs who were' discussing the results
of the national election
The dispute became heated and two
or more men, it 11 claimed, came to
blows. Reggie attempted to act as
peacemaker and utarfed to separate the
fighters. .Someone drew a revolver and
shot the lxv, the bullet passing through
is head. A crowd quickly congregated
nd as none of the men engaged in the
ispute made any attempt to detain the
man who did the shooting lie could not
be identified
ALLEGED SMUGGLER HELD.
Charles F. Manahan is Said to Have
Made Partial Confession.
Harte's stories. Much of the way he
traveled the old immigrant trail over
which the Forty-niners came over the
mountains and into California. He ar
rived last night.
Complete prohibition in California was
defeated. A measure comprising many
restrictions on the sale, possession and
use of alcohols, appeared on available re
turns, to have lost. Its opponents on
the strength of a canvass of the state
yesterday claimed a majority against it
of .0,000. The California dry federation
refused to concede this, charged fraud, and
claimed that an honest count would
carry the measure through.
TUMULTY CONGRATULATES
Isted fighting has occurred lately. The
Russians, Berlin also says, lost 27 guns
md 12 mine throwers.
The success of the Germans is admit
ted by the Petrograd war office who an
jounces that the Russians after stub
orn resistance against seven onslaughts
ere finally compelled ' To fall back to
;bcir second line of trenches. Elsewhere
m the eastern front to the Carpathians
iiere has been little fighting, according
10 the official communication.
BOMBARDED OSTEND.
mens of Haida architecture that now ex
ist. The largest of these buildings is
approximately 40 by 60 feet in size and
is made entirely of round and carved
timbers. There also remain a number of
Indian graves with the typical small
grave houses erected by the Alaskan In
dians. "Kassan" is said to be the Indian word
In Absence of Any Felicitations from
" Hughes to Wilson.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 11. Secre-
ary Tumulty last night sent the follow-
ng message to President Wilson at Wil-
liamstown. Mass:
'Election returns conclusively demon
si rate that your victory at the pedis is
clear and decisive. You have carried
two-thirds of the states of the union.
The forces of your administration have
brought you approximately 2,2(i(i.(il.
rmore votes than wien you were first
elected in 1912. This is the greatest in
crease given to an American president
for a second term since the Civil war.
Your vote last Tuesday was 2.0(10,708
more than ever previously received for a
Democratic candidate and, despite char
acter of opposition, is the largest vote
Burlington, Nov. 11 -Charles F. Mana-
an was arrested bv Detmtv Marshal
nomas Reeves of this city at St. Albans
yesterday, charged with smuggling
Chinamen into the united States. His
arrest followed a hearing . JitliL-bcfore
United .States Immigrant Inspector Ar
thur L. Weeks, Manahan having been
caught with the good at the St. Albans
depot Thursday night after making the
trip from Montreal to that city with two
Chinamen in an automobile. He was ap
prehended while waiting for the Boston
sleeper. He has -practically confessed
his guilt to the government officers and a
hearing will be held before United States
Commwsioner Claude D. Graton, who is
sued the warrant for his arrest, at the!
office of District Attorney V. A. Kullard
this morning to ascertain whether or
not Manahan will be held for the grand
jury. 1 tie (..liinamen will be shipped
back to China.
Manahan was discovered by Edward
Twohey, an immigrant inspector, who
travels upon the trains between St. Al
bans and Montreal. Manahan was at
the St. Albans station with two China
men but had not mado the trip out of
Canada on a train, but by automobile.
It was later -learned tiLat the machine
left Montreal about 5:30 o'el-ick and aft
er dropping Manahan and his two
"chinks" in St. Albans at 10:30 quickly
disappeared. Manahan, when questioned
at the depot, was unable to satisfy the
officials and was held with the two
(liinamen at St.. Albans over night. Mr.
Reeves was communicated with and ob
tained a warrant for Menahah, he and
Mr. Graton going to St. Albans yester
day morning. Tho hearing before In
spector Weeks was short. Manahan prac
tically admitting his guilt. He was placed
under arrest on the charge of bringing
aliens into this country and brought to
this city last evening, where he was
locked up at the county jail. He is
38 years of age and from liis stories ap
pears to be a wanderer, though he claims
that he has lived in Montreal the past
few years.
Williamstown, Mass., Nov. 11. Presi
dent Wilson ignored politics to-day to
remain quietly with the members of his
family here. -Several hundred telegrams
congratulating him on his re-election ar
rived during the morning. Tho president
plans to leave late this afternoon and
will arrive in Washington Sunday night.
The president is not concerned over
the refusal of the Republican campaign
managers to concede his election. The
chief thing worrying him is the political
complexion of the next House of Repre
sentatives because of the effect on his
plans for legislation.
In a speech last night before several
thousand people Wilson said:
"i want to say that now that the-
campaign is over we must think of only
one thing, and that is not of parties but j
01 the interest ot the great country we
all love. Let us forget all our differences
and unite for common service. Only in
that way can we work for the great na
tion that has given us liberty and peace."
1 he president e second speech of tho
day here was delivered before a crowd
of men from North Adams, Pittsfield
and other towns, who came here by auto
mobile, trolley and railroad trains and
marched to the home of Francis B. Sayre,
the president's son-in-law, where Mr.
Wilson is staving. The delegation sur
rounded" Mr. Savre's home and cheered
until the president appeared on the
porch.
A fife and drum corps played patriotic
airs. The majority of the people tie
longed to the North Adams Wilson-Mar
shall club. Automobile searchlights
were thrown on the porch and brought
out the president iu bojd relief. He
smiled broadlv:
"We are here to congratulate tou on
your re-election," said William F. Gren
ier, president of the North Adams Wil
son and Marshall club, in introducing
the president.. - . . . ., .. .
Mr. ilson, after thanking tne crowd
for "this generous out pouring," said he
had come to Williamstown to avoid mak
ing speeches.
Ion will forgive mo if I do not dis
cuss public affairs," he added.
During the dav the president was in
communication with Democratic national
headquarters regarding the progress of
the counting of the ballots in the elec
tion, lie made no statement, howevre,
As the delegation began leaving a man
Abo Vermont Poultry Association'
Show in December Will Be Des
ignated by American Poultry
Association as Official
Show for the State.
Barre was selected as the exhibition
city for the annual show of the Vermont
Poultry association at a meeting ot the
members in the court room at city hall
last evening. Moreover, it was announced
that the American Poultry association
had designated this years' exhibit of the
Vermont association as the ollicial chow
for the state in 1!I1(I-17. That the an
notini'cment means a good deal for the
prestige of the association and will add
materially to the success of the forth
coming show will be recognized by all
poultry men who are familiar with the
influence and scope of the American as
sociation. The dates are 'Dec. 20. 27 and 28. It
is hoped to secure the Pavilion theatre
building for the exhibit and if the own
er of the property carries out his pur
poses of laying a level floor in the audi
torium to replace the inclined floor, it
is altogether probable that the exhibit
will he staged on Pearl street. Hereto-
for the association has held its annual
show either in the Church street gym
nasium or in Montpelier. Early indica
tions point to the largest registration of
birds in the ten years of the association's
existence. Last winter the Church street
show room was crowded with birds from
several states and Canada. 1 his year
it seems certain that the registration
will not only embrace a wider area but
will eclipse last winter's record of 1,000
birds.
The judges retained for the 1915 ex
hibit were so uniformly satisfactory that
they have been engaged to officiate next
month. They are: George W. Weed of
East Lee, Mass., and George P. Coffin of
Fairport, Me. Much of the time last
evening was devoted to work on the
premium list as the executive commit
tee hopes to have the material ready for
the printers in order that the premium
brochures will be in the hands of pros
pective exhibitors early in December.
'til 1 j 1 1 1 1 1 a 1 in u
fV rLUIML-il
SEEMS SURE
New Hampshire Goes to
Wilson by Very Nar
row Margin
THREE PRECINCTS
ONLY MISSING
Press Returns from.iem
Make No Chan
the Verd?
xn
J. K. PIRIE CONGRATULATED
On Election as Representative from
Williamstown,
Seven towns joined last night in honor
ing the new representative-elect of Wil
liamstown, J. K. Pirie, the well known
quarries, whose victory at the mills Tues
day again upset a tradition that had
sent a Williamstown Republican to the
general assembly for sixty years until
Mr. rine first shied his hat into the
ring hack two years ago. It was his second
triumph at the polls in two yenrs and
the celebration which was staged at the
Pirie home in Williamstown last evening
did not yield a jot or tittle to the mem
orable reception which the representative-elect
accorded his friends on the oc
casion of his election in 1014. There
were, people present- from Marshfield
Plainfield, Cabot, Washington and Wil-
linanstown, Barre Town and Barre City.
Nearly 200 of them, by actual count.
In some of its aspects it was a recep
tion which colleagues of Mr. Pirie in the
central Vermont Democracy accorded
him, but n a much larger scale it was
a granite testimonial of what the folks
in Orange and Washington counties think
of the man who is going to represent
W llliamstown in the legislature next
term. Mr. Pino kept open house for his
Concord, N. II., Nov. 11. Certified re
urns to-day from 201 out of 204 pre
cincts iii New Hampshire, not including
28!) Wilson votes omitted by error in the
ertificate from the second ward in Do-
er, gave Hughes 4:,40.r) and Wilson 4.1,-
4. 3 lie three precincts remaininir to
be heard from were reported to the press
to aggregate figures of 250 for Hughes
and 222 for Wilson. If the press figures
are correct Wilson's plurality stands at
1 o.
DEATH OF E. L. PUTNEY.
Well Known Montpelier Liveryman Died
Few Hours After Shock.
Elwin L. Putney, a resident of Mont
pelier for thirty years and the owner
of the largest livery establishment in
that city for nearly twenty-five years,
died at 5:45 o'clock last evening at his
home, 10 Nelson street. Mr. Putney suf
fered a shock yesterday forenoon but his
condition was not considered critical tin
til during the afternoon, when he lost
consciousness and failed to rally.
The deceased was born in Xorthficld.
Nov. 17, 1859, and came to Montpelier
thirty years ago and commenced work
for John Adams. He was for a year and
a half in the West, but returned to Mont
pelier and purchased the Union house on
School street, where he remained for two
years until he purchased the livery busi
ness on East State street of Willard-
Dudley.
He leaves a wife and two sisters, Mrs.
Howes and Mrs. Clidden of Northfield,
and a nephew, Phil S. Howes of Montpel
ier. The funeral arrangements have not
been completed.
LEVI WARREN KEITH DEAD.
Native of Plainfield But a Long-Time
Resident of Barre.
Levi Warren Keith died at 2:30 this
morning at his home, 21 Eastern avenue,
of hardening of the 'arteries. Tie hud
been confined to the bed for the past ten
da vs.
Mr. Keith was born in Plainfield on
April 2, 1842, and he spent his early life
in that town. For about fifty years he
had been a resident of Barre. At one
time he was employed by the city wat
er department. He married Luvia
Heath in August, 1880. Mr. Keith is sur
vived by his wife and one sister, Mrs.
Mien Parks, who is now in Pasadena,
Ca!.. and an adopted daughter. Mrs. W.
called out "Three cheers for Baby Sayre ' guests ana provide.! plenty or good mu- m. Wales of Worcester. Mass.
Gold in Alabama.
which means "a pretty town," and all ever received bv a president from the
reports agree that the village was well I people of this country 052,055 more
Jritish Airplane Also Attacks Zee-bruzxe.
London, Nov. 11. The British admir-
dty last evening made public tne fol
owing communication:
tish ad
ic tne
"Early this morning a squadron of na-
ral airplanes attacked the harlior and
mbmarine shelters at Ostend and Zee
Wtizze. A great weight in bombs was
Iropped with success."
HEAVY AERIAL ENCOUNTERS.
london Reports Many Battles oa West
ern Front.
London. Nov. 11. The British oflicial
nmmunication issued last evening says:
"There was no change to-day on the
lattle front.
"As the result of the improvement in
lie weather there was great aerial ac-
named. The fact that the village was
occupied by the Indians for many years
explains the local name "Old" Kassan,
by which it is widely known.
Since the village w-as abandoned by
the Indians the buildings have" been rap
idly falling into a state of dilapidation
and decay, and a certain amount of van
dalism by tourists and souvenir hunters
renders some form of protection essen
tial. An examination of the area was
made jointly by representatives of the
forest service and of the interior depart
ment, and reports strongly urging the
establishment of a national monument
were approved by the secretaries of both
departments. The Smithsonian institu
tion strongly endorsed the proposition
for the establishment of a national mon
ument. The new national monument
will be protected and administered by
the forest service, as is the case with
all monuments located within the na
tional forests.
than the total Taft-Roosevelt vote of
1012. You have a popular plurality of
40,1,312, according to bulletin received
from the Associated Press.
ERROR IN OREGON
Reduced Plurality in Favor of Prohibi
tion Amendment.
Portland, Ore.. Nov. 11. An error dis
covered in the returns on the prohibition
amendment reduced the majority in its
favor by approximately 1,000 votes to
day. It was apparent, however, that it
had been carried bv more than 3.000.
HER ELECTION SURE.
Mr. and Mrs. Percy Kier of Craftsburv
returned to their home this morning aft
er visiting at the home of Mrs. Kier's
Miss Jeanette Rankin Going to Congress
From Montana.
Helena. Mont,. Nov. II. Latest re
turns to-day assure the election to Con
gress of Miss Jeanette Rankin, Republican.
Lawrence Poulen, an eipht-year-old lad
Brief notes on the Gold Log mine, Tal
ladega county, Ala., are piven in a re
port entitled "Contributions to Economic
Geology. lOlfi." This is an annual vol
ume including short papers and prelim
inary reports prepared for those who are
interested in mining. "ln order to hasten
publication and facilitate distribution,
the papers are printed separately or in
small groups as- the manuscripts are
completed. When all of the contribu
tions have been published they are com
bined into two volumes, one "on metals
ami non-metals exCept fuels, the other
on fuels. The paper on the Cold Log
mine, which was prepared by E. S. ltas
tin, may lie obtained from the director,
L". S. geological survey, department of
the interior, Washington, U. C, by ask
ing for bulletin 640-1.
nd thev were given.
Late yesterday afternoon President
Wilson made his first public speech since
election before a delegation of Williams
town residents and Williams college stu
dents. The president was welcomed by
the students and townspeople after the
christening of Eleanor Axson Sayre, the
second child of his daughter, Mrs. Fran
cis B. Sayre, and for whom he stood as
godfather.
Soon after his arrival at the home of
his son-in-law, assistant to. the president
of Williams college, the delegation head
ed by President If. A. Garfield of the
college and Samuel P. Blagden. chairman
of the Williamstown common council,
marched to the Savre home. The presi
dent spoke from the porch of the house
and was cheered enthusiastically by the
students.
"I came here to forget the field of pol
itics and for a brief rest. I came simply
to visit my daughter and to attend a
simple ceremony here to-day." he said.
"Now that the campaign is over we may
all address ourselves to the welfare of
the nation without thought of partisan
feeling."
sic and a bountiful luncheon in the bar-
P
Call on the Shop Girl Who Is Sitting
Down.
Couldn't nelp It.
A man traveling on a through express
left his chair in the crowded dining car
just after he had ordered his luncheon.
Ie went to pet something he had for
gotten in the Pullman.
W nen he returned. In spite of the fact
that lie had left a niapsrtne on the chair
in the diner, he found a handsomely
dressed woman in his place. He protest
ed with all the politeness he could mus
ter, but the woman turned on him with
flashing eye.
'Sir, she remarked haughtily, "do voti
know that I am one of the directors'
Don't think that just because the girl
is sitting down that she is tired and you
must not call on her. It merely means
there is a lull in the business and that
she is resting while she can. The No
vember Woman's Home Companion gives
some timely advice on this idea. It
says:
"She stands behind a counter heaped
with daintv fabrics, a little, slim, de
mure figure in trig black-and-white. She
is very young, hardly a day older than
your own girl at high school, iet, com
pared to the clerk of yesterday, she is
efficiency embodied quick, deft, compe
tent. The Employes' Training school
lias seen to that. Its instructors have
taught her promptness and judgment
and courtesy. Thev have taught her to
quiet her voice and her attire, to rule
her temper, to keep her manners ami
her finger nails above reproach. They
have taught her many things. But one
thing they could not teach: they have
not taught her how not to pet tired.
Even now, while she so willingly lifts
down box after box of laes, that you
may match the exact edge for Aunt
Emily's negligee, her body is throbbing
with fatigue, her feet are burning, a
leaden weight drags on her back. For.
from morning to night, she mut stand
at her work."
gain. People from Barre made the tri
to the Pirie home in autos and a good
majority of those who came from other
town anchored cars 111 the door vard. Th
Williamstown Kind was present to sere
nade the candidate and to welcome all
comers. Then William Stewart of
Barre entertained with a fine repertoire
ot vocal solos. Mrs. J. G. -rine enter
lained with humorous readings and Pete
Passera played the piano. Mrs. Poor
played the accompaniments for the sing
ing. Many women were present to sup
plemcnt the congratulations of the mere
men voters with their own felicitations.
L. J. Bailey of Williamstown was mas
ter of ceremonies and his first call for
speakers fell upon Mr. Pirie himself,
Representative Pirie came straight out
for better roads and a revision of the
auto laws that will reduce to a mini
mum the danger of traveling the high
ways. He spoke forcefully on both is
sues and gave it as his opinion that Ver
mont should pay its road builders good
wages and then sec to it that value is
received. He was loudly applauded be
fore the next speaker could gain the
attention of the audience. Among others
who responded were Jcseph Daley, Ellery
l-abeilc, Z. K. rarnham, J)r. A. A. tross.
W. B. Jones. J. (J. Pirie and C. W. Cram
of Williamstown, Donald Smith, (J. Her
bert Rape. H. C. Ijidd. Frank F. Cave,
frank L. Small, Alex llanton, Postmas
ter George W. Gorman, Alex. A. Milne,
Deputy Chief Harry Gamble and James
R. Coutts of Barre and Henry Batchelder
of Plainfield.
One of the humorous incidents of the
program came when Deputy Chief Gam
ble was asked to place under arrest a
candidate who refused to make a speech.
When the deputy appeared on the scene,
he, too, was forced to respond. Another
laugh was forthcoming when Mr. Pirie
was presented a velonr hat, the spokes
man being (i. E. Perry f this city, who
had Jiazarded the price of a top piece
that Republicans would be elected lwUh
in Williamstown and in the United
States. Mr. Pirie was loudly cheered as
he donned the head gear for the first
time. A serenade by the Imnd brought
the reception to a cloe.
The funeral will be held at the house
Monday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
ENCOURAGING OUTLOOK.
At the Methodist Misionary Society Con
vention in St. Johnsbury.
St, Johnsbury, Nov. 11. A large at
tendance of delegates and townspeople,
reports of a successful year's work and
an encouraging outlook for the ensuing
year in all departments of the society
made the final sessions of the. Woman s
Home Missionary society of the Method
ist Episcopal church Friday one of the
greatest successes of receuty year Officers
for the ensuing year were elected as fol
lows: President, Mrs. A. 11. Webb Fairlee:
re-elected; corresponding secretary, Mrs.
. a. Jnsti ot -.nosburg ialls; recording
secretary, Mrs. L. H. Hanson of Montpel
ier; treasurer, Mrs. W. W. Wilson of
Montpelier; vice-presidents, Mrs. William
Shaw of Montpelier, Miss Alice B. Farn
hain of Barre. and Mrs. W. E. Douglas of
Enosburg Falls.
At the afternoon session one of the
most interesting papers of the entire
meeting was reud by Miss Louise Lewis
of (Jroton 011 "The National Meeting,"
and in the evening Mrs. D. B. Street of
Washington, national secretary of the
Woman's Home Missionary society, gave
a most interesting address on the nation
al work.
TALK OF THE TOWN
MISS NELLIE RYLE
Former School Teacher in Montpelier
Died Last Night.
"Mt dear madam." he responded, "if
Ivity yesterday. Much useful work was sister, Mrs. Clarence B. Gladding, of of Plainfield. reports finding a buttercup you were the director's onlv
Jone, many bombing raids being carried South Main street. in blossom to day. ehould still ask for. my chair.'
Casey Phwat's a bank?
Maloney It wurks huke this. For in
stance. Oi put money in an ye draw it
out.
t'ey But how does the bank make
inythingT
Maloney Shure, they either knok
down part of phwat Oi put in or short
He J change ye on pnwat ye draw out. Fact
and Fancies.
Mr. and Mrs. Philip Poulen are in St.
Johnsbury on business, and are not ex
pected home until the latter end of next
eek.
George LaFlamme. who has been vis
iting friends in the city and vicnity for
veral days, left for Manchester, . II.,
Ins morning.
Ralph Bennett, formerly of Barre, but
now of Roxbury, arrived in the city last
night and w ill spend the week end visit
ing relatives in the city.
The men's class of the Congregational
church will meet next Sunday, Nov.
12, at 12 o'clock in the Baraea room.
Prof. Carroll S. White will lead the dis
cussion, the subject being. "Man's Place
in the World." The purpose of this
class is to discuss the important issues
of the present day and a most cordial
invitation is extended to all the men,
lioth young ami old, to attend this meet
ing. -
What will probably be the last hoof
Miss Nellie Ryle, a public school teach- :
er in Montpelier for many year Hied
last evening at the home of E. S. Fiske, 'match seen iu I'.arre this season will be
31 College street. Montpelier, after ill-(staged at the Granite city trotting park
ness of two years, during six months of ! this afternoon, w hen two Montpelier
which she had been failinp steadilv. inien will race their horse over the half
She was born in WaiNtield and" came : mile track to deci le an argument that
to Montpelier IS years ago. She leases ;hss !ecti under the hottest discussion f'T
her father, Thomas Rvlo of Middle-ex;
a sister, Mrs. Martin Pembrooke of Mid
dle-ex; two sisters, Mrs. Dean Hale and tion and Steve Koda. Each horse has
Mr. Warren Dudley, both of Montpelier. j won one race, the firt heat being pulle I
and a brother, Fre'l Ryle of Mont polier. -off two weeks ago when Steve Roda wen
The funeral will be held from the re-i- y a few inches only, and last Saturday
denee. 31 College street, Sunday after- afternoon. Hesitation crossed the wire
noon at 2:30. " ahead. j
1 , l, Tl. k..-a.. - .11
Sf-triHl .... ..c-n win, 11 -hi
'be entered this afternoon ar Hesita-
