.q
f
WEATHER. if w ' "From Press to Home
^fJrr;4.S"ln' k 1^ 4% JJ Jt (V OKT |m Widun f/?e Hoar"
Torap?r%turft for twenty-four hours 1/ / _i JM. '
'wssss**^ Ufllv XAIvlUUU L_
Ciosnc SEW YORK STOCKS PAGE il. , S ^ 1,1 " Db1,Y A"rut' *1' 8""*"T* BMT1No.
29,512. WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1916. -TWENTY-FOUR PAGES. * ONE CENT.
ORSOVA CAPTURED;
FATE OF RUMANIAN
FORCES IN DOUBT |
I
Turnu-Severin Also Reported
Taken?Wallachia Conquest
Complete, Says Berlin.
TEUTONS APPROACH
VALLEY OF THE ALT
Germans Attempt to Cross Danube.
Russians Resume Offensive in |
Dobrudja Regions.
1J.V tiie Associated Press.
BUCHAREST, November 24, via I.ondon,
3:44 p.m.? Romanian force* have
aMumed the offensive In the province
of Dobrudja, nay* the official statement
Issued today by the Rumanian war department.
and have advanced alonjc the j
entire front, capturing: several towns j
about fifteen miles north of the Tcheraavoda
Const a ma railroad line.
LONDON. November 24.?Virtual completion
of the Teutonic conquest of
Little Wallachia is announced today by
Berlin. Orsova and Turnu-Severin, on
the Danube, have been captured by the
Austro-Oernian forces, which have
broken the resistance of the Rumanians
in this section of western Rumania.
No mention is made of the booty
taken or of the fate of the Rumanian
forces which were defending the Ortinva
v^trinn TV>a ratrAot , .f tliaca :
is assumed to have been cut off with j
the recent capture by Gen. von Falken- j
hayn's armies of Caraiova. and with it
the only main line railroad leading
eastward.
Approach Alt Valley.
1'ushing eastward from the Jiul valley
after their capture of Caraiova, the
Austro-German forces are now announced
as approaching the Alt valley.
It is along this valley that the Rumanians
apparently have elected to.
make their next stand. Bucharest yes- j
terday reported a withdrawal of the J
I Rumanians from the Jiul region and
' announced that they were holding
their own in the Alt valley, where a
Teutonic force is driving from the
northern Rumanian border in a converging
attack with the forces from the
west.
Simultaneously a movement has been
made, presumably by the Bulgarians,
which may prove of notable importance.
- Bucharest reports an attempt by hostile
forces to cross the Danube at Zironitza,
thirty-five mil en sohthwest of
Giurgia. on the railroad leading to Bucharest.
This move, if successful,
would mean h cutting in far behind
the present Rumanian line along the
Alt. Zimnitza is severity miles southwest
of Bucharest.
Buss Advance in Dobrudja.
On the other hand, the Russians have
made a counter move In Dobrudja.
Petrograd announces that they are
pushing south and have reached to
Lake Tashaul, about twelve miles
north of Constanxa, which is the Black
sea terminal of the railroad from
Tchernavoda. and have crossed the Kar*al
river. Bucharest reports th- occupation
of Tashaul and Tatarpalus. j
Berlin announces a battle in this re- i
glon, declaring, however, tlu t the Itus- ,
sians were thrown back from advanced i
positions.
11.000 Square Kilometers Taken.
k BERLIN. November 24.?German ad*
vances in Wallachia have brought about
the conquest of 11,000 square kilometers
of fertile wheat soil. The occupation
of Craiova is also of high strategical
importance. Two railroads from
^ the Danube converge there, and the
communications of all the Rumanian
troops standing west of Craiova are
out. while reinforcements for the allies
(Teutonic), now advancing from all
sides, can easily be transported. A network
of roads radiates from Craiova. I
which is all the more important, since
strategically the most important railroad
between Rothenthurm pass and !
the Danube, running north and south, '
Is distanct only forty kilometers, j
? *raiova is 100 kilometers east of j
Orsova, but only forty-five kilometers
north or trve Danube, and therefore >
forms the Holt of the western part of
Rumania. Further, it is an excellent j
baie for new operations eastward. i
t
GREEK ROYALISTS REFUSE j
TO EVACUATE KATERNINA
LiONDON. November 24. 12:30 p.m.? J
The Greek royalist troops have refused I
to evacuate Katernina, as demanded by
the entente authorities, and Gen. Sar- j
^ rail, in command of the entente forces, ,
_ has warned the Kovernrnent at Athens I
that unless an order for immediate j
evacuation is given he will proceed to
use force, says an Exchange Telegraph ;
Company dispatch from Athens today.
.CATHOLIC ALUMNAE BEGIN j
SESSIONS IN BALTIMORE
BALTIMORE. Md., November 24.? !
Representing 32,000 members in the
T'nited States and Canada, the delegates
to the second biennial convention
of the International Federation of
Catholic Alumnae, formally opened the
session* today, which will continue un- i
til Sunday night. Cardinal Gibbons offered
the invocation and delivered a |
brief address.
Dress reform, the drama and modern i
literature will be discussed, and the
feeling among the delegates was that
strong resolutions relative to these
matters would be passed before the
conclusion of the convention. 8hort
skirts, low necks and other of the present-day
modes of dressing are expected
to come in for criticism.
Money and Securities Contraband.
LONDON, November 24.?A royal
proclamation declares that henceforth
gold. silver and paper money, secur'
itles, checks, drafts, letters of credit
and any negotiable instruments or
. documents relating: to the transfer of
money, credit or securities will be
treated as contraband. I
SIR MM MAXIM.
INVENTOR, IS DEAD
Passes Away at London Home i
Today in His SeventySeventh
Year.
t
BORN IN SANGERVILLE, ME. I
1 -j I
":P-.
* <v*
^s^8^S|v ip
t
t
SIR HIRAM S. MAXIM. r
v
LONDON, November 24, 8:20 a.m.? c
Sir Hiram Maxim, inventor of the auto-/ J
matic system of firearms, died at his I
home here early this morning.
i
Sir Hiram Maxim was born in Sanger- i ^
ville, Me., February 5, 1840. He was j ^
a descendant of English Puritans, who | ^
were among the early settlers of j ^
Plymouth county, Mass. After a meager 11
schooling he went to work in a ma- ! ^
chine shop and later was employed in j u
the machine works of his uncle. Levy i t
Stevens, at Fitchburg, Mass. At twenty- j "
eight he was a draftsman in a large j t
steamship building concern in New ; I
York city, where he- invented a new j A
locomotive headlight which went into j f
general use. He also did much to per- j t
feet automatic gas machines for light- j v
ing private houses. In 1877 he took
up the question of electricity and was j
among the first to make dynamo elec- j
trie machines and electric lamps in |
the United States. He took out a great t
many patents on electrical machinery w
and in ISSl was made a chevalier of
the Legion of Honor by President s'
The Maxim automatic gun was In-) t(
rented in 1884. in London, and was im- j
mediately adopted by the British gov- i
ernment, which used it in the war v. ith '
Matabele. The gun fired rounds a |
minute, and caused such slaughter that a
parliament seriously discussed the
question as to whether its use was jus- V
tified. Some years later Sir Hiram, 1
created a baronet by Queen Victoria, in ?
1901, after having become naturalized
as an Englishman, invented the first f
smokeless powder. ^
Invented a Flying Machine. ^
In 1894 Sir Hiram Maxim invented a r|
heavier-than-air flying machine, which *
raised itself from the ground carrying fl
a driver and passenger. This was nine c
years before the first practicable airplane
was created by the Wright 3
brothers. Sir Hiram's machine was a *
ponderous affair, and broke down in its 8
early trial. In 191the inventor was J c
appointed a member of the inventions!1'
board created by the government to j
meet the needs of the war.
He went to England in 1881, and had
resided there ever since.
His son, Hiram Percy Maxim, is a d
well known inventor in the United t
States, known particularly as the in- ^
ventor of the Maxim silencer.
For many years Sir Hiram was a di- A
rector in the firm of Vlckers* Sons & t
Maxim, but resigned that post in 1911.
For more than thirty years he experi- n
merited in aeronautics and invented t
flying machines. In the light of the p
present war, with its numerous Ger- ^
man airship raids on England, it is re- t
markably interesting to recall that p
eight years ago Sir Hiram took the ?
British nation to task for its small in- ^
terest in aeronautics, and pointed then,
at a time when aeroplanes were in p
their infancy, that England was in
grave danger of bombardment by air- ^
ships. a
"Hoes any one doubt for a moment," a
said he. "that in case we And ourselves t
at war with a continental power, air- 0
ships will be used for bombarding p
English towns, both on the coast and
inland? The city of London within a
year's time can be attacked without
our enemy needing to fear the boasted
British fleet." fi
Interested Britain in Aviation. (
_ _ j
f ollowing me success 01 me w right
biplane. Sir Hiram renewed his long j
continued interest in aviation, and in
1910 perfected a machine which lie declared
had certain advantages over the
Wrights'- It was he who. with others,
interested the British government in
beginning its organization of an aerial
navy, ami though he was then seventy
years old, he lived to see the great war
bring air lighting to pass in even
greater measure, probably, than he '
himself had dreamed.
In addition to his gun and airplane,
he patented many electrical inventions,
including incandescent lamps, selfregulating
current machines, several
pieces of ordnance and a smokless powder.
The inventor took a keen interest in
the war, and from time to time there
were unconfirmed reports of his invention
of devices to meet the needs of the
war, one of them being an apparatus .
to counteract the effects of the poisonous
gases which the Germans were
first to bring into use. In 1915 he was
appointed a member of the inventions"
board of the British munitions depart- :
merit under Lloyd George. j
Sir Hiram applied himself so strenu- i
ously to science throughout his long
life that even his recreations were |
given by him as "reading scientific I
books and studying the abstract
sciences." He wrote many important
articles, and an autobiography, "My
Life." in 1916.
He was a member of the American
Boclety of Civil Engineers, the Royal
Society of Arts, the British Association
for the Advancement of Science and
numerous other scientific bodies. He
was the elder brother of Hudson
Maxim, the American inventor.
France to Have New Taxes.
PARIS. November 24.?New taxes
which it is estimated will yield 600,000.000
francs have been decided on by :
the appropriation committee of the '
chamber of deputies after many weeks 1
of consideration. * t
.
CHANGE IN RULERS
TO 8EPROCLAIMED
Austrian Council Meets Today.
Time of Francis Joseph's
i
Funeral in Doubt.
\
MINISTERS TO KEEP POSTS
iy the Associated Press.
VIENNA, via London, November 24.
?At a meeting this afternoon of the
ninisterial council, which Emperor
Charles will attend, a proclamation reating
to the change in the sovereign
lead of the Austrian government will
>e made public.
rne neaus 01 me Austrian ana nunrarian
governments will formally re- j
?ign today, as is always the case on J
he death of a ruler. This action. \
lowever, will be a. mere matter of form, j
is the new emperor will immediately ?
eappoint the ministers.
Friendly governments were formally j
lotified today of the death of Francis
roseph. The arrangements for the
uneral ceremony have not yet been
nade, and will not be completed until
hose who are expected to attend it
ire heard from. It is thought, liowsver,
that eight or ten days will elapse
>efore the body is laid to rest.
Realizes Responsibilities.
The Associated Press is informed that j
he new emperor entered upon his '
luties as a man realizing the trc- ,
ncndous responsibilities of the posi- ;
ion. So far it is not known when the
oronation of the King of Hungary will
ake place, though Budapest will be
he scene of that event. Today all the j
tewspapers in the monarchy appeared '
vith mourning borders. All of them ;
ontained the warmest words of ap- '
?reciation of the qualities of the dead !
nonarch.
Possible Funeral Plans.
LONDON, November 24.?A dispatch
o Reuters Telegram Company from
rienna by way of Amsterdam says the
ody of Kmperor Francis Joseph will
>e taken from Schoenbrunn Castle to
he chapel of the Hofburg Palace Monay
night and there will lie in state
ntil noon next Thursday. At.3 o'clock!
he following Monday afternoon the fueral
procession, which will be one of
:reat splendor, will start for the Cahedral
of .St. Stephen, where Cardinal
Mffl will perform the solemn high mass.
ifterward the. procession will again j
orm, and the body will be taken to ;
he Capuchin Church, where the casket j
till be placed in a vault.
Emperor's Farewell Words.
A special edition of the Weiner Ze.i- j
ung has published the following fare- |
rell words of Emperor Francis Jo- j
eph to his peoples, army and navy, ac- |;
1? & lfi<a*na. di#mUch to R?usrV
by w*y of Amsterdam:
"To my beloved peoples I express ray
earrlest thanks ror their loyalty to-i
rard me and my house in happy days I
s well as in times of distress. The ;
onsciousness of this attachment has
one me good and strengthened me in j
ulfilling my imperial duties. May they
ontinue to observe the same patriotic
eelinga toward my successor. ,
"My army and navy I remember with I
eelings of deepest thanks for their!
ravery, loyalty and devotion. Their |
ictories gave me joyful pride and ]
heir unmerited mishaps painful sor- j
ow. The excellent spirit which at all :
imes has animated my army and fleet |
nd both my landwehrs gives me con- i
dence that my successor can also
ount on them not less than I did." j
Emperor Charles of Austria has sent!
n autograph letter to Premier Tisza of t
iungary. confirming him and the Hun-'
;ari;tn ministers in their posts, ac- !
ording to a Budapest dispatch to Reuer's,
by way of Amsterdam.
Addresses Premier Koerber.
Emperor Charles of Austria has ad- j
rcssed the following imperial rescript
o Premier Koerber, according to a
'ienna dispatch to Router's, by way of
Lmsterdam, quoting the Weiner Zeiung:
"Dear Dr. von Koerber: Bearing in
lind my constitutional duty to take
he oath and exercise the executive
towers of government, according to
irticle VIII of the constitution of Sepember
29. 1867, I await from you prolosals
tending to the fulfillment of this
tipulation. Dated Vienna, November
3, 1916. Charles."
A dispatch to Reuter's Telegram Comianv
from Amsterdam quotes the foiowing
message from Vienna: "By or
er of the new emperor, the troops in
.11 the military districts of the monrchy
and generals. other officers and
he military officials have taken the
ath of allegiance in the name of Emleror
Charles I."
Xaiser Voices Sympathy.
The German emperor has sent a mes;age
of sympathy to Emperor Charles
>f Austria on the death of Emperor
Francis Joseph, whose government,
iays Emperor William, "will live in the
listory of the monarchy as a period of
dessing."
The message is further quoted In a
rteutcr dispatch from Berlin, by way
>f Amsterdam, as follows:
"We of the younger generation were
iccustomed to see in his venerable
igure examples of the finest virtues of
ulers and truly kindly devotion tq
luty. The German empire loses in him
'"'"i aliv I nersonallv lose a
paternal and highly honored friend.
"God's inscrutable will has called him
iway in the middle of the greatest
world war and has not permitted him
:o see the result of the struggle and
:he return of peace. May God give
lim eternal rest, and to you strength
:o bear the burden which falls upon
you at this grave time."
Emperor Charles replied:
"I thank you for the sympathy
which you, dear friend, have shown and
for the genuine friendship which you
-nanlfested toward the dead emperor,
who held you in such high esteem. As
your and his loyalty to the alliance
stood firm as a rock in this world
war, so shall it remain for us."
Figurehead Emperor
in Charles Not Likely,
Says Teuton Writer
BERLIN. November 24.?The Voe leche
Zettunc prints an article from
l writer Intimately acquainted with
Vienna political life, who cambata the
rurrent view that Emperor Charles will
>e a figurehead politically, and prelicts
that he will soon convince the
vorld to the contrary. The writer asjerts
that the retention of the old
ninlatry merely expresses reverence
'or the great dead, with delicate tact
:hat araroea Nothing about the policy
1 . ....
fi i
\
i
I
j'
?-J.
of the future. He declares that the re
tention of the ministry is merely tem- |
porary, and that reconstruction of the
cabinet will follow in good time.
Emperor Charles, he continues, surrounded
himself with a circle of political
friends, of whom Count Berchtold,
formerly the foreign minister, is best j
known. The brothers Prince Conrad |
.on Hohenlohe and Prince Gottfried j
iron Hohenlohe, the latter ambassador j
at Berlin, also belong to the inner circle '
of its intimates, and both are prob- i
ablv slated for high positions. Prince j
Conrad was formerly jp. mister of the
Interior. At that time hV showed him- J
self imbued with modern Ideas. He is [
thoroughly acquainted with Austria- J
Hungary's vexed racial problem.
Another man who, in the opinion of
the writer, will probably figure in the !
imperial council is Count Czernin von
Chudenitz. who was minister to Ku- |
mania until the rupture.
ANOTHER HOSPITAL SHIP I
MINED OR TORPEDOED;
Braemei Castle. Bound From Saloniki
to Malta, Is Sunk.
All Aboard Saved.
LON'hO.V, November 24.?The British
hospital ship Hruemer Castle of .280
tons gross, bound from Saloniki to
Malta, with wounded, has J>een mined
or torpedoed in the Aegean sea, it was
officially announced today. All on
board were saved. The disaster occurred
in the Mykoni channel, the announcement
states. j
Mykoni is an island in the Aegean |
sea, distant about 10?? miles from j
Piraeus, the port of Athens. A com-I
paratively narrow passage separates
Mykoni from the Island of Tino to the
northwest.
The offices of the White Star line in
New York have been advised by the
British admiralty that the Britannic
was sunk by a mine.
A Renter dispatch from Athens says
the Braemer Castle was torpedoed.
MIII AMM ? rMam *t
UHAIMlitS IIM AUMIKAL I T
OF BRITAIN IMPENDING
LONDON, November 24.?According to
the Mail, a critical situation has arisen
in consequence of the government's repeated
postponement of consideration
of the British air board's demand for
fuller powers and the admiralty's refusal
to agree to this. The Mail intimates
that if the matter is again deferred
at the meeting of the war council
Friday, important resignations are
probable.
The Times, referring to recent criticisms
of the admiralty, says that the
government now recognizes the necessity
of- strengthening the board. Certain
changes are impending, the paper
says, and are likely to be published
within the next few days.
Priests Take Pledge for Five Years.
CHICAGO, November 24.?Every j
priest ordained in the Chicago arch- i
diocese of the Roman Catholic Church
pledges himself to total abstainence
for five years. Archbishop G. W. Mundelein
stated tniay. The archbishop
said he already has put this rule into
force and intends to exact the pledge
in all future ordinations. "If the young
priests keep the total abstinence pledge .
for Ave years," he said, "it is easy
to see they are likely to continue the
practice for the rest of their lives."
Thanksgiving Day
With Our Troops
On the Border.
Uncle Sam will see that real
Thanksgiving dinners are provided,
with sixteen ounces of
turkey for each man. Shipping
these turkeys to the border is
a big job. You will find this article
i^ The Sunday Star.
4
THE NEW PRESCRIPTION.
ITALIANS AND SERBS
GAIN IN MACEDONIA
Further Progress Made, and
More Towns Taken North
of Monastir.
FOE FIERCELY RESISTS
Br the Associated Press.
PARIS. November 24.?Both east and
west of Monastir on the Macedonian
front the entente armies are pressing
the. Germano-Bulgarian lines hard and
making: furher advances, according to
the French war office announcement today.
Berlin announces the repulse of
local attacks by entente troops northwest
and northeast of Monastir.
The Serbians advanced in places
toward the north and repulsed hostile
counter attacks. They have taken the.
village of Budimirtsa. Counter attacks
failed.
The area of Serbia now liberated
amounts to 1.200 kilometers.
The Italian troops Monday were engaged
in the mountain region west of
Monastir and repulsed a violent attack
from Mount Muva. Then, pressing
their advance in a northerly direction.
they captured heights southwest
of Bradinol, northwest of Monastir,
Wednesday, and have pushed as far as
Nijipola.
Stubborn Resistance. J
The struggle continues under very j
difficult conditions. North of Monastir i
the enemy, who is resisting with stub- !
bornness, has received reinforcements j
and has attempted violent counter at- j
tacks, which failed. j
The French troops, in the course of I
a brilliant assault, captured the village j
of Dobromir, while the Serbs took possession
on the right of the village of
Paralovo. Three hundred prisoners
were taken.
Allied airplanes bombarded enemy
encampments in the region of Topolohani
and Prilep. Jri the course of an
aerial fight an allied airplane brought
down two enemy machines in the
Drama sector.
Bulbars Report Success.
SOFIA, Thursday, November 23, via
London, November 24.?Heavy lighting
in the Lake Presba region, on the
Macedonian front, west of the Monastir
district, is reported in today's official
statement by the war office. Hostile attacks
were unsuccessful, both east and
west of the lake. Near Boudamitza
Bulgarian troops captured entente
trenches. The official statement reads:
"Between Lakes Ochrlda and Presba,
after a short engagement, the enemy
retired southward. An enemy attack
east of Lake Presba failed. Height No.
1050, east of Paralovo, was unsuccessfully
attacked by the enemy, who met
with heavy losses. In the vicinity
of Boudamitza we occupied enemy
trenches.
"On the remainder of the front nothing
of importance occurred."
WILL RENDER DECISION
A! CLOSE OE HEARINGS
Utilities Board to Pass on Universal
Transfers Before Court Action
on Valuations.
Decision by the public utilities commission
on the question of universal
transfers will be rendered upon the
close of the hearings now in progress
on the street railway valuations, mad
not postponed until after the courUf^j
have had a chance to pass on the valuations.
This v. as announced today in a letter
sent by the commission to William
McK. Clayton, chairman of the public
utilities committee of the Federation
of Citizens' Associations, which had
requested information in regard to the
matter.
The commission states that considerable
progress has been made toward
termination of the valuations; that the
report ot its engineers on the reprtfc*
|?iuction cost of the railway properties
land of the accountants on the actual
I cost of these properties, as shown by
J the books of the companies, have been
j completed, and the testimony of the
commission's experts placed in evi
dence. The companies have yet to present
the evidence of their witnesses.
While it is a matter of conjecture as
to how long it will take to complete
the hearings, it is thought probable
the universal transfer question will be
ready for a decision early in the spring.
MR. RiEDTOASK
MORE PAY FOR CLERKS
To Urge Need of Higher Salaries to
Meet Higher Cost of
Living.
Strong recommendations for an in- j
crease in salaries for the office employes !
of his department, both in Washington j
i Jind in the field, will be made bv Serre- i
tary Red field of the Department of Commerce
in his annual report to the President,
it was learned today.
A number of petitions have been received
by Secretary Redfleld, principally
j from office employes in the field, asking
I for increased salaries, and remarking that
they could not maintain themselves with
the present salaries and lay something
aside for the rainy day.
One of these petitions, signed by twenj
ty employes of the office of the inspector
of the third lighthouse district at Toinpj
kinsville, N. Y., is typical of those being
I received from other parts of the country,
I asks for an increase in their salaries "to
1 enable us to cope with the constantly increasing
cost of the ordinary necessities
of life, such as fuel, rents, food, clothing,
etc.
Hard to Meet Expenses.
"The stress of economic conditions
makes it difficult for us to meet our
current obligations, and renders practically
impossible the providing of a reserve
fund to meet sickness or other
emergency."
Inspector J. T. Yates, in charge of the
office, in forwarding the petition to
Washington, giving his indorsement
and approval, said that it was "justified
and reasonable." He also told of I
the difficulties of obtaining satisfactory
clerks at the small salaries now
prevailing in the service. He said he
j had filled out five applications for a
1 nine-hundred-dollar clerk, and obtained
! only one out of the five, and he only
worked seventeen days.
| Secretary Redfleld said that the requests
are very reasonable under the
present conditions, and that he was goI
Inc to treat th? mot tar v drv strnno-1v I
! ln^his annual report soon to go to the
President.
Provisions Ministry for Prance.
PARIS, November 24.?At a cabinet
session presided over by President
Poincare it was decided to establish a
ministry of provisions, with Joseph
Thierry, undersecretary of war for the
commissary department, in charge. The
new department will not be attached
to the war office and will have entire
supervision of the provisioning of
civilians as well as the army.
Conservation of Paper
Every citiien Is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper le wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save It for the
school children's playground fund.
Call Main- 60S6 and ask for the
nearest public school to your home
| and the old papers will ba mat for.
ASSAULT RENEWED
ON CHIHUAHUA CITY
Villa and His Command Again
Force Fighting, Message to
Juarez Says.
CARRANZA OFFICERS SLAIN
EL PAriO, Tex., November 24.?Francisco
Villa and his command renewed
their attack on Chihuahua City at 9
o'clock this morning:, a message received
in Juarez today stated.
One general, two colonels and 100
men of the Carranza forces were killed
during the fighting yesterday between j
Oarianza troops and Villa bandits, a
delayed dispatch from Chihuahua says.
Four hundred men of the Villa command
are known to have been killed
and left on the. battleileld.
The names of the Carranza officers
killed have been siinnre.ssed bv the mil
| itary censor. j
| Andres Garcia, inspector general of
Carranza consulates, today officially |
denied a report that Gen. Trevino and
I his forces were at Terrazas station. ,
J north of Chihuahua City, and had evac- j
| uated Chihuahua City.
"Gen. Gonzales was talking with Gen.
| Trevino over the military telegraph, at
j 10 o'clock, and Gen. Trevino was in the
j military headquarters in the state capital,"
Mr. Garcia said. "There is abso- |
| lutely nothing to such a wild rumor.''
i he added. "Neither is there any truth
in the rumor that Carranza troops
j joined Villa."
j It was reported here today that Villa
| had succeeded in entering Chihuahua
| City, and that street fighting was In
! progress. The Juarez ofF.cials claim
they have nothing from Chihuahua City
regarding this report.
Yesterday's Battle.
Francisco Villa withdrew his forces
In defeat from Chihuahua. City at
6:15 o'clock, after a battle of seven
hours, during which he made fruitless
; attempts to carry Gen. Trevino's pro!
tecting works by ;tssault. according
j to a report received from Chi|
huahua by Carranza officials in Juarez
j last night, who added that government
| troops were actively pursuing the retreating
bandits. The telegraph operator
in Chihuahua said that the firing
could still be heard clearly, but was
becoming more distant.
Four separate attacks were made by
the Villa forces. Gen. Trevino repulsed
the fourth mass attack late in the day,
the bandits being driven from their
temporary intrenchments with heavy
losses, it was announced in Juarex.
Gen. Trevino, commanding the Carranza
forces. WuS wounded during the
lighting in the early afternoon, while
directing, personally, the fighting from
the vicinity of Santa Rosa Hill, Gen.
Francisco Gonzales, in Juarez, announced
after receiving a message from
Chihuahua City.
Gen. Trevino returned to the city to
have a scalp wound on the right side
of his head dressed at the military
hospital. With a bandage around his
head he returned to his post at field
headquarters and continued the direction
of the Carranza forces on the firing
line.
At 10 o'clock last night the military
authorities in Chihuahua City telegraphed
Gen. Gonzales in Juarez that
Gen. l^arlos Ozuna, in command of the
Carranza cavalry, was pursuing the
Villa bandits south in the direction of
j Mapula, and the cavalry column was
I rupuirea to ue ton miies soutn of iSanta
Rosa.
No estimate of the number of killed
or wounded has yet been made, it was
announced over the military wire.
Says 1.000 Troops Desert.
Richard Wisbrun, an American member
of a party arriving- here early today
from Chihuahua said that 1,000
Carranza troops sent out "Wednesday
by Gen. Trevino went over to the bandits
without firing a shot. The train arrived
at Juarez from Chihuahua about 3
a.m., bringing about 100 refuges in
passenger coaches and three box cars
filled with Chinese. The train left j
Chihuahua at noon yesterday a short
time after the attack on Chihuahua by
the Villa bandits began.
At that time the guns on Santa Rosa
| hill were firing at intervals and the
I rifle Are on both sides was said to
have been brisk.
Villa's attack on Chihuahua City was
not unexpected by the Carranza garrison,
Mexican officials here said today,
as Villa had publicly announced
both at Parrul and Santa Rosalia that
his next action would be to take Chihuahua
and then to drive the American
expedition out of Mexico. It was
because of military movements tending
to give substance to these threats, according
to officials, that Gen. Trevino
remained on the defensive in Chihuahua
City after announcing a week ago his
departure for the field.
Villa's boldness in assaulting an almost
euual force Droteot#?d w<?n
made intrenchments is ascribed in
Juarez to a common belief that Trevino
was seriously short of small ammunition.
It is thought here that Trevino
allowed this impression to spread so
as to insure its reaching Villa, while,
in fact, he had sufficient for all emergencies.
A large number of Mexicans residing
in Juarez came across to El Paso last
night because of disquieting rumors
there. One was that Yi,la had captured
Chihuahua and the Juarez garrison.
in consequence, intended to revolt
and join hint.
Villa Led in Person.
Villa in person led his forces against
the Carranza troops, according to the
reports received at the Juarez military I
headquarters from Chihuahua City I
given out by Carrauza officers. The '
bandit leader was said to be riding !
horseback, with his crutch strapped to !
his saddle. He was said by the de
facto authorities to have approximately
3,500 men in his main column.
Santa Rosa hill, an eminence 600
feet high, which is located about one 1
mile from the plaza in Chihuahua City,
is the key to the state capital and
northern Mexico, prominent American
refugees from Chihuahua City declare.
This hill is an elevation between
mountains. On this hill Gen. Trevino i
mounted several large-caliber cannon,
according to the Americans, and further
fortified it with machine guns and
barbed wire entaglements around the
base of the hill, with flanking lines of
trenches and barbed wire entanglements.
It was In the vicinity of this hill that
Villa and his constitutionalist forces
attacked Chihuahua City early in November,
li?13. He was driven off by
Gen. Salvador Mercado's artillery, and
then Villa encircled Chihuahua City,
attacked and took .Juarez November 15
of the same year. After Villa entered
the state capital September 16 of the
present year the Associated Press correspondent
reported having seen him
and his "golden ones" on Santa Rosa
hill. p I
RAILROADS TO NEED
MUCH MORE MONEY
| A. P. Thorn Fixes Amount at
I $1,250,000,000 Annually
I
for Ten Years.
FOR FEDERAL REGULATION
The reed of procuring: a tremendous
amount of new capital for the development
of the transportation systems of
the country to meet the demands of
commerce was emphasized by A. P.
Thorn, general counsel of the advisory
committee of railway executives, to
day before the joint congressional committee
investigating the entire subject
of transportation.
I ?u?. mum expressea me I ear that
the investors of the counrty would not
j put their money into issues of securities
by the railroads if the present
system of regulating the Issue of railroad
securities Is allowed to stand,
under which each state may have a
separate voice in the matter. Nineteen
of the states today by law regulate
the issue of railroad securities on lines
passing through their territory, he said.
The regulation of railroads by the gov.
eminent, he said, must now be regarded
as a permanent part of the governmental
policy of the country. But. he said, the
roads and the public have the right to
examine the system to ascertain if there
was anything in it which unnecessarily
builds up difficulties to defeat the inI
crease in facilities for handling the
commerce of the country, and which
causes a decrease in public confidence
in railroads as an investment for private
capital.
For sole Federal Control.
He discussed the dual system of go\ eminent
control, by the state and by
the federal government. He argued that
such a dual system was first, a discouragement
to the investor, and second, the
regulations of 011c state upon an Interstate
railroad often had &n evil effect
upon the interests of the other states
and interstate commerce. He asserted
that the commerce in the country today
over the railway lines of the country
was 85 per cent interstate and 15 per
cent intrastate.
He pointed out that in some instances
individual states have passed laws which
would safeguard the markets of that state
1 to the people of those states, and have
| fixed rates so as practically to prohibit
| interstate commerce. In some instances,
he said, regulations had been made in individual
states which were forced l?y
political expediency and had no consideration
for the commerce of the country.
"We all know," he said, "that the railroads
cannot long survive a system
which does not regard the necessities
of commerce, but which is controlled
uy wnai is politically expeaieni.
He argued that the regulation of the
issue of securities by interstate railroads
was a matter for the federal
government and not for individual
states. He read from a resolution
adopted l>y the recent convention of the
association of state railroad commissioners
in this city, which urged that
the issue of railroad securities should
be regulated by the interstate commerce
commission.
Says Railroads Will Need
$1,250.000.000 More Annually
During the Next Ten Years
Railroads will need $1,250,000,000
additional capital annually for the
next ten or twelve years to increase
their facilities to handle the country's
! growing commerce, Alfred P. Thom,
I counsel for the railway executives' aii|
visory committee, told the congresj
sional railroad investigating eominit|
tee today, continuing his statement on
I behalf of the railroads, begun yesterj
day. About $250,000,000 a year add!
nonai win uc rt-quncu, nc ?atu, iu icfund
maturing indebtedness.
To attract Investors, Mr. Thom suggested
that federal regulation should
replace the present system of authority
divided between the states and the
central government. He cited examples
of injustice and hampering of
railroad linancing caused by state control
of issues by interstate roads.
Referring to the need of additional
railroad facilities, Mr. Thom said:
"It has been found that the wealth
! of the country has been increasing at
the rate, of 8 or 9 per cent a year, and
the same ratio of increase has held
good as to the demand for transportation.
As the forces which have affected
the growth and development of the
past apparently still continue in full
operation, and may reasonably be expected
to continue for the next ten
or fifteen years, at least, the investment
in railroad facilities to meet the
large requirements of the future must,
consequently, grow at a corresponding
annual rate of increase." The estimate
of $1.*.'50,000.000 for additional transportation
facilities includes nothing
for extensions into new territory, lie
addedEvils
of State Regulation.
"Where is this money or any sum
approximating- it to come from?" asked
Mr. Thorn. "This problem is one of
vital interest to the public because on
its successful solution depends the commercial
facilities of the country.
Would it do to confront the investor,
when asking for this great investment,
with a situation where the revenues of
the railroads are not subject to the
control of the investors, but are fixed
and limited, not only by governmental
authority, but by many unco-ordinated
state authorities in no way responsible
to each other, and where the railroads
cannot control and the government
cannot and does not limit the expense
account?"
Mr. Thom referred to the recent case
in which the New York Central, which
has not over twenty miles of line in
Illinois, was taxed $600,000 by the state
of Illinois as a condition of the consent
of that state to the issue of certain
securities. He asked why th?*
states of New York, Ohio, Indiana ami
the others through which the road runs
could not with as much reason exercise
the same right.
"If they did," he continued, "commerce
as a whole would be most generously
burdened. If they did not, then
their own commerce must help to bear
the burden of this tax placed upon the
road by the state of Illinois, contrary
to their views of the justice of such a
tax.
"As another illustration of the conflict
of state action, the New York, New
Haven and Hartford in the summer of
1913 arranged for the sale of $67,000,000
of convertible bonds. The states of
Rhode Island and Connecticut gave
their approval, but the approval of
Massachusetts could not be obtained.
The result was that the issue failed,
and the consequent Inability of the
road to furnish the proposed new facilities
in the way of new equipment
and enlarged terminals is largely responsible
for the great congestion of
business and interruption of commerce
throughout the whole of Now England
*nd surrounding regions." ?
V.
-A m -v., , ? - 1 _ .
