'& .
t - n"
'FINANCIAL EDITION'
. . .vm&iQfWr,
--3-
STRA
itb$?r
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituenm
6
.
i -&xTi
V r fcjlfc
VOL. IILNO. 62
TEUTONS TAKE "
ORSOVA; SEIZE
"IRON GATE"
Turnu Scverin Also Falls
Before Advance of Aus-
tro-Germans
MANY PRISONERS TAKEN
Resistance of Foe in Wallachia
Broken, Germnn State
ment Says
BETtLIN, Nov. u.
Orsova and Turnu Severln havo been
captured from the numnnlans by General
von Fnlkenhnyn's Austro-Gcrman nrmy,
the War Office announced today.
,ll Ilumanlan resistance In tin western
pari of tho Ilumanlan kingdom has hcen
nroUen.
'The capture of Orsova and Turnu Sexerln
Is n crushing blow to the Rumanians. The
number of prisoners taken by the Germans
Is believed 'to be large.
In Pobrudja the Russians have been
flung back by Field Marshal von Mack
enscn's nrmy.
Orsovn and Turnu Sovcrln both He on
the Danube and Jointly they control tho
Iron Gate, an tho nanubo Is known at
lhv point where It bends sharply where
the borders of Hungary. Rervla and Itu
manta touch. Orsova Is In Hungary and
Turnu Soverln Is In numam.n.
Orsova was taken by the Rumanians
when they Invaded Transyhanla nnd was
strongly fortified. Us doom wns sealed
when von Falkenhayn's army captured
Craiova.
One-fifth of numanla Is now held by the
German nllles Great stores of grain nnd
other supplies captured by Germans In
western Rumania when Craiova fell aro
being sent back to Germany and Austria.
The arrival of Russian rc-cnforccments on
the Transylvania front has given fresh Im
petus to the fighting In that zone.
The entire kingdom Is surrounded by a
ring of battles. In the Cnrpathlana and In
tho Transylvania Alps on Falkenhayn's
veterans aro withstanding furious assaults
by tho Russians and Rumanians. Tho Ger
man allies, driving eastward from Craiova,
aro meeting with stern resistance, for tho
Rumanians have massed heavy forces for
the possession of Bucharest on Its western
' Bulgarian troops, aiding Field Marshal
'von Mackcnsen In Dohrudja, have advanced
and forced back Russian forces from ,the
forefront of tho Teutonla positions. Ad
vances were ntso reported at other points.
Armies of tho opposing sides are In fighting
touch on the Danube.
'Tartlal advances of the enemy north
west of Monastlr and near Makovn failed,"
the official statement regarding the Mace
donian campaign Btated.
"Between Prespa Lake nnd the Cerna,
there were strong attacks by artillery fire."
BUCHAREST, Nov. 24
Attempt by Teutonic forces to cross tho
Danube and Invade Rumania through 21m
nlcea (or Slmnltia) was announced In to
day's official statement. It merely an
nounced the nttempt to disembark the
troops.
"Pressure of superior forces required
withdrawal In the Oltcnlo Valley to the left
bank of the Oltetz, the statement said.
The fall of Orsova and Turnu Severln, an
nounced by Berlin today, does not mean
that the Austro-Germans have made a new
advance ie.n tho Rumanian capital. Tho
two towns captured by tho Teutons were
already left behind tho new lines Von
Falkenhayn had established when he cap
tured Craiova, some fifty miles southeast
of tho Iron Gates. A Rumanian nrmy was
reported still fighting In 'the region of
Orsova and Turnu, but It was already
doomed when Craiova fell, as no escape
was possible In any direction.
The declslye operations of the German
offensive In Rumania will have to develop
east of Craiova and along the rest of
tho Transylanlan front from Campolung
to Dorna Vatra, as well as In Dobrudjs. It
Is to bo expected that. If tho Rumanians
nil) be able to hold the Teuton armies
along tho Transylvanlan Mountains and
east and south of the Danube, tho decisive
battle for the possession of Bucharest will
ke fought In tho, Volachlan Plains, east of
Craiova.
LONDON SEES HOPE OF ESCAPE
DY ORSOVA GARWSON IN QUICK
RETIREMENT BKFOHE. ENEMY
LONDON, Nov. Si.
If German official reports today nre
accurate, General yon Falkenhayn's vise
has closed still tighter on eastern Rumania,
Berlin claimed occupancy of Orsova and
TUrn-Beverfn.
;... nun craiova, wnicn mey announced cap-
; i urea early in tna week, put tne ran or
Which In nnl -vaf nrimlltl In Tlucharest
- El.lAm.nfd ,fc.n a...b a va . nun r, , 1,
now In control of the three largest cities
in eastern Rumania. ,
Whether the Rumanian army, which Ber-
Contluued on rlo l'lie, Column Oae
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
and colder tonight and Saturday, with
lowest temperature tonight war fretz
'Hfi itrong yietterly winds,
LK.NGTH OP DAY
Sua rlM . 55 a.m. I Upon ri .012am.
Son icu . Jip.m. I Moon souths tl.04a.in.
DELAWARE B1VER T1DK ClIAJiOK.1
i-HBSTNUT STBKBT
Hub vrtr ja 18 m. I HUH water ? P
tew water 7.Sm.lUw wt . Ulwa.
XEUFXKATOltE AT EACH 1I0UH
.am99ft4BBtrJ
?ky'k ,ff ? ''- '
MISS AMANDA SYKES
Whoso tcHtimony todny in tho
linbona corpus proceedings will
probably admit her fiance, Ellis
Frigar, to bail.
TELLS LOVE TALE
TO FREE FIANCE
Amanda Sykes Says Frigar
Shot Man Who Threat
ened Arrest
HEARING ON BATL PLEA
Miss Amanda Sylics, fiancee of Hills
Frlgnr, who shot and killed Kdwnrd Botand
on "Hairpin turn," Nelll drive, Kalrmount
Ta'rk, last August, told today for the first
tlmo the details of the shooting.
Miss SyKes told her Btory before 'Judge
Audcnrled In a hearing to determine
whether. Frigar should be released In ball
and nlloned to leave prison for the first time
slnco his arrest a week after the shooting.
Tho talo told by Jllsa Sykes, who ap
peared trim and cool on the xtand, cast
a new light on the events leading to the
slaying; It placed the blame squarely on
Boland and his companions, and put Frigar
In a better light. Lawyers present In
timated they thought ball would not be
refused.
According to Hiss Syker she and Frigar
were sitting In the automobile by the dark
roadside when Boland and his companions
appeared, remarked that the pair "should
bo taken to Scdgeley guardhouse" and
then struck Frigar over the head with h
beer bottle vhen ho Bteppod from tho car
She heard, but did not see, the shot that
klllfd Boland, she said, as she had her
hands placed before her face at the time.
Miss Sykes said that she had mot Frigar
by appointment nnd had stopped at Con
cordvlllo to see a sister of Frigar After
Continued on Tase Ten. Column Three
FRED W. FLEITZ DIES;
WAS POLITICAL POWER
Former Water Supply Commis
sioner and Deputy Attorney
General Supported
Brumbaugh
SCRANTO.V, Pa , Nov, St. Frederick W.
Flelti, former water supply commissioner
and former Deputy Attorney General, died
today at tits home In Scranton.
Frederick "Waldorf Fleltx was born at
Wellsboro, Tioga County, March 1, 1887,
His parents, John and Katherina FlelU.
natives of Oermany, wero for years well
known In tho northeastern tier. Their son
received his early training In the public
and private schools ofhla homo town, later
ho entered the State Normal School at
Mansfled, pa.
I.Ike many country youths, Mr. Fleltx
started his carter as a school-teaches.
The. 'routine of the schoolroom", however,
proved too Irksome for a man of his physl
cal and 'mental make-up. Ho decided
to "rough It" for a while. Tho next four
years be 'spent In the Rocky Mountains.
Alaska, along the Pacific coast and In
Uexleo. He tried his hand at prospectlpg.
hunting and civil engineering, spent soma
tlmo on a ranch and handled the reins on
a stage coach.
A. native of Tioga County, where one
hears nothing but politics discussed from
morning until night. It was but natural that
Mr FlelU should Jump Into the political
arerut Accordingly, In IT. a year be
fore he attained his majority, hy secured
hm39f2Q?- -"' wr-
asssssssssssssssssaBBaaaaaaassssssssssm
. j. a
tt
1 i .-
. 4
-l'htr
COMMUTERS' PLEA
MAY TIE UP CASE
Germantown Patrons Enter
Eleventh-Hour Rate
Proposition
BOARD DEBATES MOVE
May Settle Dispute Without
Considering Sectional
Scheme
A last-minute proposition from the Ger
mantown and Chestnut Hill commuters
came as a big surprise today at the final
hearing before tho Public Service Com
mission on the controversy over commuta
tion rates in the Philadelphia district. This
nctlnn by the residents of the Germantown
section may delay solution of the caso for
some time.
The new proposition', which advocated n
new rate schedule for tho community In
question, wns presented by Harold S Shertx
nnd Ward Plersnn. representing the Ger
timntown and Chestnut Hill lluslncst Men's
Association This plan computed t'.ie fnro
on tho basis of xones, Increnslng In Indi
rect ratio ns one approached tho central
station.
Kdwln M. Abbott, representing the com
muters, denounced the proposition as a sel
fish plnn which would benefit Germantown.
Chestnut Hill and other station of IIKr
distance nt the expense of those using
other stntlvns
ciiAUdi: ui:si:ntku
Mr Plerson resented the charge that the
organization which he and Mr Hhcrtx
represented were actuated by sctllsh In
terests 'Tho new rate schedule proposed was
mailo after careful Investigation." ho said,
"and we felt tho caso should bo given con
sideration" Michael J. ltvan. who pre-,
sided, expressed tho wish that the proposi
tion had come sooner.
The commission adjourned to meet In ex
ecutive session nt the Bellevue-Slratford
It will decide this afternoon whether tho
proposition of Shertx and Plerson shall bo
a factor In tho case.
If tho new proposition from the German
town district Is ruled out there would bo
a speedy settlement of tho controversy with
the Heading Company, It was said, and an
early solution of the caso with the Penn
sylvania. HKOnivTS THMJP
Concerning the new proposition, William
U Winter, assistant general counsel of
tho Heading road, said-. j .
The- carriers-approached- art-niljtist''
ment of affairs with a view of having
their patrons satisfied and pleased vvlth
the rates and service Therefore, It Is
gratifying to us to have all except the
Germantown and Chestnut Hill com
muters ratify our rate schedule. In
reference to tho propos.il of these com
muters, I must say that they accept
the theory of terminal rhqrges. but
while they take It Into consideration
they do not apply It throughout tho en
tire schedule us proposed
Shou'd this enter Into consideration nt
thin lato dato It would mean a long delay
nnd would destroy the greatest good which
the railroad hoped to derive from Itn offer
Continued on Pase Ten. Column four
HOSPITAL SHIP
SUNK INAEGEAN
Another British Vessel Goes
Down Near Grave of
Britannic
i
FLEW RED CROSS FLAG
LONDON", Nov. !4.
The British hospital ship llraemer
Castle, bound from Malta to Halonlca, was
sunk by a mine or torpedo In MyKonl Chan
net of the Aegean Sea. an Admiralty an
nouncement stated today. Tho Admiralty
announces all on board were saved.
The Mykonl Channel, where tho Braemer
Castle was sunk, Is a body of water lying
between the Greek Islands of Tlnos nnd
Mykonos and Is only about sixty miles dis
tant from Zea Channel, where on Tuesday
the hospital ship Britannia fell victim to n
mine, according to the latett Admiralty
announcement.
Tho Braemer Castle, like the Britannic,
was withdrawn from passenger service for
special transportation of wounded, She
was a vessel of 6318 tons, property of tho
Union-Castle Mail Steamship Company, of
lndon. The shin was built In 1898. She
was 460 reel long and twenty-one feet In
the beam.
The Braemer Castle had taken a consign
ment of wounded British soldiers to the
British naval base at Malta and was on
her way tu Safonlca, to take o'n board
another batch when she was sunk.
According to Government official there
could be no mistaking of the Identity of
the Braemer Castle', as she Hew the Red
Cross flag and had the Insignia of her
character painted on her sides and funnel
Hoy Climbs on Auto; Goes (o Hospital
Climbing behind automobiles sent twelve-year-old
Samuel Menette, of !016 Dcmile
street, to a hospital today. He ran out In
the street to get a "hitch" on a truck at
Cayuga and Uber streets and was struck
by a machine owned by Benjamin Stoker,
6605 McCaUum street, and driven by Syd
ney Oregory, of 21 East Sharpnack street
The accident was teen by Chief Murphy,
of the Fire Department, who summoned
an ambulance The by was taken to
St Luke's HopJtI wjjb, ntusjons of the
bcic UtWjr wa tkj arfti4t f 0
1
PHILADELPHIA, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER
MISS KLSA UEI.AND
NEW CARSON DEAN
PRACTICAL WOMAN
Elsie Ueland to Be Home
Mother as Well as
Pedagogue
TO EQUIP ORPHANS WELL
Miss Klsa Poland, of Minneapolis, who
would rulher walk fifteen miles tlinu ride
In on automobile, who wears n Phi Beta
Kapp.i- key an tho academic limine of
scholarship, who has don settlement work
In New York city and uewsp.iper work In
list nnd West and who has dona It nil In
twenty-eight years of life Im the newly ap
pointed dean of Carson College for Orphan
Girls, which Is being established nt Flour
town, one. and a halt miles north of Chest
nut Hlll-'.niul which wns founded on a
bequest pf . pjj,000.hy '" 'at? Robert
N'. Carson.'
Two words make the shortest description
of Mliis Ifeland capable and lovable Iltr
capability strikes tino at tho first word of
Introduction, nnd before tho Interview Is
over the wish steals In that one might bo
a bereft orphan girl of Philadelphia be
tween the nge1 of six nnd ten years so
that one might come under Miss Ueland's
supervision twenty-four hours In the day
up to the ago of eighteen car.
Tho Carson College will. have the girls
twent-four hours n day on n farm Institu
tion of eighty-seven acres, nnd it will begin
to train them as little girls so there Is no
comparison between tho work I shnlt have
and tho work of n city school." said Miss
Ueland
I do not know much about the schools
of Philadelphia, hut 1 do think from my
observations In many places In tho United
States that the fault of artificiality charged
against tho common nchool systems Is due
to the fact that they nm almost exclusively
orgnnlxed t" prepare students for college,
whereas only n Binall proportion of the
students ever renih tho college. Kducalors
aro only beginning to plan for the student
who must make hla or her imn living at
Iho close of school I believe, that the
high schools In this city are at tho fore
front In these new Ideas.
"When we realize that Latin, mathemat
ics nnd t:e literatures of a bgone ago are
Contlnnrd on Paso Ten. Column Two
TRAIN JUMPS TRACK;
PASSENGERS ESCAPE
Smooth Rondbcd Prevents
Dcntbs and Injuries in Acci
dent on Pennsylvania
LIMA. O. Nov. H. Many passengers
were endangered early today when Penn
sylvanla passenger train No 196, east
bound. Jumped tho track at Forest, thirty
miles from here, and ran along on tho
ground for nearly 300 feet.
Halltoad oltlclals and men say the acci
dent as one of tho most remarkable In
many years. Had it occurred at a point
where the ground near the tracks was not
level the los of life probably would have
been great. As It was, the train ran along
smoothly on the roadbed, and the passen
ger.! escaped Not one car was ditched and
only two men were Injured.
These Injured were the engineer, who has
a bruised US, a" a rna" " who has a
cut forehead They received treatment on
the snot and returned to their posts.
The train runs to Pittsburgh and l(t
Chicago at midnight. Jtallroad oltlclals
blanie the engineer. The train was derailed
at a place where the track arpeeed tracks
of the Big Four llallroad , and the engineer,
who may have failed to read his signals
properly, ran over a derailing switch, which
threw the train from the tracks.
Girl of Seven Dies From Burns
OBTTYSBUHO. Pa., iy, z After sut.
ferine; three days from burns. Anna Witter,
apreo, daughter of Jlr. astf Mr Samuel
VfUMr. Bar6jtfc 4 da4. oH was burned
24, 1916
CocTilant,
QUICK
AUSTRIAN CORONATION SET FOR DECEMBER
AMSTUKDAM, Nor, 2-1. Vleiinn dlsvmtches toilny lit ought thl
inrotWitlljH Hint Kmiierot' Kiul wilt be ctownctl King of Cuiitvy Hi
Dceemljei', oiutImc liefot Christum.
SUES ERIE RAILROAD FOR $50,000 DAMAGES
TKMMTOM. Nov. 81 Suit was bionght In the Unltotl States
District Court this raomtntr ngnlHat tho Kile KnllrotUl tiy Edwin J.
Mill. Jr., of Garfield, tf. J lo u'covor $50,000 (Inninges, for injtutca
utferett by IiIh Mx-yenr-oUl son. Tho chlhlls lea Icr wns no bndly
ittotigleil by bring run over by n irnln of tile 15rlt company nt Oni
ricld that It wAB'UeccimiiVy to Amnulnti It.
TODAY'S FOOTBALL SCORES
I'cim Charter, 0; fJormnutown Academy, O.-Thst period,
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Bowie tttce,' selling, maiden !2-yearolds, 5 1-2 fut longs
Al Hudson. 115, Wnul. $10.00, 97.00. 95-30. won; Itose rinn, 107,
Crump, $12.-10, $7.10, second; MnRuctlua. ll, Hnyca, iSl.-IO, thlnl.
Time. 1.11 2-5. , .
Second Bowie lace, tJ-ycur-olds, selling, 0 fuilon Fltvie, 110,
Ihttwell. 011.20. 95.80. 3.00. won; Saigon II, 108. Ball. $1.10.
97.00, second; Ed Onrilsou, 102, McAtce. 910.00, thlid Time, 1.17.
Thtrd Howie race, nil ogei, mnldcua, 1 mile Mctcbnnt, 05, Mc
Atee. S 1. 10, 2.00. $.70, won; King" Matt, 1 15. gclininmoiharn, 93.00,
9-1.10, second; Otsego, 05, A. 00111115!, .ffvlO, thlid. fimc, 1.-15 d-b.
COURT UKLAYS HKAK1NG ON EIGHT-HOUlt LAW
KANHAS CITV, Kan., Nov. H. Tho henrlnR before JuJeo John C. Pollock,
United States District Judge here, on tho Injunction suit tu ouf.lit by tho Bantu
lo UKnliiNt the Ad.imnon clijht-hoiir law linn boon postponed to await tho outcome
of tho conference In Kurmni Cltj, Mo. between rnllioail oftlclnl und Clovcrnmont
representatives.
(JKNEUAL TliEI'OFK NFW RUSSIAN PltEMlER
I'KTKOOIlAn. Nov. 24. General Tiopoff linn been appointed Hie W Premier
of Himla by tint Knipcror lo nuccepd Premier StUrmer. Tho' dismissal of Hturmer
has caused a political sensation. Tho Duma adjourned today until Dcccmpr -'
Newspapers hoio declnra that Trepoff's appointment an Premier will Ifeuessltato
hn nxphinntloti liy Iho. Government In the Duma ref;ardliip -what problems Induced
Tilt selection im Premier
NUWl'ORT NEWS SHIP COMPANY CHARGES DISCRIMINATION
WAHlllKCiTOX, Nov. 21. The Newport News Shlpbulldlns and Drydock Com
pan) lotlu) (Veil complaint with the Intc-.stato Commerce Commission, nllCBlnB that
tho rate of 21 3 rents pel tuO pounds, as chained by tho Pennsylvujidu, Baltimore and
Ohio nnd other rnrrlern on lion and itcel articles shipped from tho Pittsburgh dis
trict of Pennsylvania to Newport News, Is unjust, unreasonable and discriminatory
as compared with tho rato of IC.9 icntH per 100 pounds which Is received by ship
building companies in Now York. Iloston nnd Portland, Me. It asks that It- be
uccorded the 10 9-10 cent rale.
RAILROADS MUST TURN IN OI'EN-TOP FREIGHT CAKSV
WASHINGTON, Nov. 21. All railroads of tho country today received Instruc
tions from tho American Ttnllvvny Association to return nil open-top enrs to their
owners ut once. Irrespective of whother tho cars woro loaded. Tho orders were
Issued by the association's cnmmlltco on car elllclency In on effort to tellevo tho
shortage of ioal cars. The. committee today opened headquarters here und began
a scries of dully confcirncos with Intcrstnto Commetco Commissioner McChord,'
who Is !n ctmiRo of tho commission's car shortago InveUlgntlon.
RAIN NOT ENOUGH TO END CITY WATER'S HAD TASTE
Chief Cnrlelon K Davis, of the llureau of Water, suld today that lust nlnht's
ruin was not heavy enough to rcmeily the bad tasle of the city water. "It was
u good start," ho said, "but much more rnln Is needed to bring the condition
of the water back to normal."
GERMANS SEIZE COPPER
AMSTERDAM, Nov. 24. Chargea
machlnor) In Holglum for tho copper on
Nouvcllea do Mncstrlclit.
EVANGELIST LYON NOW A GRANDFATHER
The llov. Dr.' Mllfotd I.on, tho evuugellst who is conducting tho campaign In
tho Camden tabernnclo, Is n grandfather, tils eldest daughter, Mrs. Ralph lleebe, of
Winona Lake, Ind., todny becoming the mother of a little girl.
P. R. R. SUnSlDIARY HUYS 3000 ACRES OF COAL LAND
PlTTSIlUliait, Nov. 21 It wiih unnounccd todny that two years ugo the
Manor Ileal Ustuto Trust Company, u BUbsldlury of the Pennsylvania Ilullioad, sold
to the Wostmoiclund Coal Company 3000 acres of coal land for $2.22&,250. This is
tho largest traduction of Its Kind In tho history of Westmoreland gounty, Tho
Pennsylvania Railroad has right of way on tho property.
GERMAN CIVILIANS TO DO WAR SERVICE
ItKlll.lN, Nov. 21. Wur service of civilians Is provided for In u ball now be
fore tho Itclchstug. This Is to be known as tho "patriotic auxiliary service."
Auxiliary fcervlce will bo considered, In addition to tho work of officials of State,
that rendered In war Industries, usrlcultuie, sanitation und in war organizations
of any kind, or such as Is of direct or Indirect Importance for purposes of warfare.
CATHOLIC CLERGY OF CHICAGO MUST TAKE PLEDGE
CHICAGO, Nov. 21. Kvery priest ordained In his diocese will be compelled
to take a ftve-yea'r abstinence pledge, uccordlng to Archbishop Mundelelp, of the
toman Catholic Church, today. Tho archbishop explained that .he would not bo
true to his position and convictions if he did not take a stand in favor of total
abstinence.
LIMOUILU PARISH CHURCH IN QUEBEC BURNS; LOSS 5180,000
QUEBEC, Que., Nov. 21. The Ijmoullu parish church, valued at 1180,000, was
destroyed by fire hero early tpda). The (He started In the furnace room nnd
spread quickly despite efforts of the entire Quebec Fire Department, (
j- -- s,
POPULATION OF UNITED STATES ESTIMATED AT 113,309,285
WASHINGTON, No.v. SI. Tho population of the United States nnd its posses
sions January next will be J13,?09,285, against lll.D79.952 In 1916, according- to
Census Bureau statistics today. The continental United States papulation was
placed at 102,826,309. Some of the State Estimates are: New York, lQ,3$6,78i Penn
sylvania, 8.591.0??, Illinois, 0.193.626; Ohlfc. 5,181.220; Texas, 4.472,494; Massachusetts,
3,747,561; Michigan 3.074,560, California. 2.983,843; Indiana, 2.826.161.
NEW YORK MOVIE MEN TO FIGHT SUNDAY CLOSING
NEW YOHK, Nov. 24. The light to overturn the. Appellate Court's decision
that New York Btate'a moving-picture houses must close on Sunday will bo led
and financed by film men representing- a capitalization of more than I500.00Q.OOQ,
according to prominent motion piotwo theater owners of this aty. A call has
been wnt out to a meeting In New York on Thanksgiving Pay to dJMUM details
j tb flKht. Ja4r ot tlw motion-picture Industry Iron all over tbymd SKatw
aro U Had. f "".
1910, t this rrstio I.tian CoMrixt
NEWS
IN HELGIAN MACHINERY
that tho Germans aro dismantling nil
It nro printed today by the newspaper
PRICE ONE CENl'
WOOD STRIKES
BACK; ACCUSES
CASUALTY MEN
Charges Mershon and
Byrnes With Variety
of Frauds
URGES BRUMBAUGH
TO CALL OFF O'NEIL ; -
J! .
-1 . . . - ".V f
insurance Scandal urows as '.;
V;IliUgU3 U11U VJUUULUI-
charges Fly
h
HEARINGS FOR NEXT WEEK!
Charge and Counter'Chargc
in Insurance Wrangle
IYNDON D. WOOD, Tension Mu.
Jtual head, issues otntcment nt'
tacking; State Insurance Department.
Aska Brumbnuuh to cnll off at--tncks
ho says come from Insurnnco
officials.
Also attacks old Union Casualty
mnniiRcmcnt through nfluinvlts of
their employes.
Affidavits sny Roger Byrnes, for
mer vice president of Union Casu
nlty, caused fictitious insuranco to bo
written and with Abner II. Morahon,
its former president, collected travel
ine expenses for trips never taken.1"
Commissioner O'Ncil says if half
of what each side snys about tho
other is true they all ought to bo in
jail. x
Cnunter-clinrges by Lyndon D. Wood
against the men who managed tho Union
Casualty Company bforo ho got control of..
It mark the latest step In the huge State
wide Insurance scandal.
Mr. Wood Is tho president of the Pension
Mutual Life Insurance Company, th
dominant factor In the Consolidated Invest
ment Company, although ho holds no offl$
In that concern, and also the dominant fig '
ure now ,ln (he Union-Casualty Company,
although lie hoIds"no -olllce. He has been'
under flra- since Insuranco Commission?
0Nell apled''fdr receiverships In Harrl.
burg for Yho epstpn Hfc alid the Union
Casualty. The former case Is to be Jiesrd
Monday,' the other Wednesday In'ths Dau
phln' County Court.
The Insuralic Commissioner's appljcjv.
lions were niaue nearly mreo yijpcna nv.
and Place mat time charges or now jir.
"Wood tried to get control of this company
nnd, that, have been flying thick and fast.
Only yesterday In the Delaware court th
answer of tho Home Life Insuranco Com
pany to complaining stockholders ullecid
he tried to ruin that company. ' ,
WOOD'S ailAllCJUS ' I
Now Wood Js, beginning to make clutrge.
He accuses Insurance .department officials
of favoritism and making false accusations,
and ,he sends to the Evening Ledobh affi
davits made by former employes of ths
nlon Cusualty- Company ngalnst'lhe prin
cipal olllcers of tho old regime Abner It.
Mershon, president, nnd Itoger Byrnes, vice
president. The affidavits were sworn to
last June before John Thtel, law associate
Of Johp C. Bell, who, bb former Attorney
Cleneral, prevented n receivership hearing
similar to the one set for next Monday In
the case of the Pension Mutual Life Insur
ance Company, for which Mr. Bell was,
beforo his term of office and since, a legal
adviser.
Tho affidavits nre made by Edward Jt
Handall, 510 Rust Johnson street; Clarence
Kuppleo, 212 West Kumtnervllla street, and
Walter Elmer Sanders, 1530 Spruce street.
"OUailT TO BE IN JAIL"
In connection with these charges Com- j
missloner'O'Nell said today;
;Kor u lane lime both tide kept coming
la me with llp ulnat tho other, each
lilr trlllnc mo liovr bad the oilier was. 8a
1 decided to !' Ihem meet, and T brought
Imtli Mi to Jlarrliburr, I had thenv
on oppoilte ehlea of the room, and If half
of what llier ld about each other tlii
day U true, then tliry all ought to be In
Jail."
Itandall's allldavlt, which lathe principal
one of the three, says that Byrnes caused
fictitious Insurance lo be written, vyltlMhe
full knowledge of Mershon and Albert Mor
gan, the secretary.
"KAKK POLITICS"
He says. In one portion of the affidavits
At various times In the history of the
company It was known by Us officers
to be Insolvent, and when that condi
tion existed at the end of any year
Mr Itoger Byrnes, vice president and
general manager op tho company, would
direct me to make out applications for :
IpsuiaiK In Ills o.ttlc. This wa dptw,-
so that the company might claim In Its v -
' m. L"
Continued ea l'u EUhtCliluwa Tw
LIVE WIBB TULLS TEETH ,"
r 'V i
Zipl and Four Pop Out as Electric 0ujv
rent Enters Camden Man's
S Mouth
Qet 'em pulled electrically
Walter Layton. thlrtyrnlne years W,
1001 Uavbon street. Camden, did last nlgbfc
and he didn't have to pay a dentist 14 ik
the Job either.
Layton was walking n the rainstorm
at Ninth and. Spruce streets, QamdtA.MM
attention diverted by trying to balance
umbrella, against vos siue. -liters was
sagging eltctrlc light wire ahead of ht
but Layton didn't see U The wlr v
full of "kick," which I-uytop realised wis
U graxed sgalsst tU moyth and sent
hundred or xmr oUt t IttestrMty (ur
log about fcli . Vwr tUt PvojmA
out 9l t,sfctii.Ifct tUf "ia; 9i ,
Sr5'j sMJpib4(WP r PPWSJ fi
M
wtmijuuu
. ...-ftaajsasiseE?
fttWtMH
