. 1
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Overcast and much colder to-day; to-
morrow fair and colder; west gales.
Highest temperature yesterday, 37; lowest, 38.
Detailed weather, matl and mirlne reports on page 11.
JT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 85.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1916. CopyrloM. 1M. " Printing ond PuhHtMng A$sociaon.
ONE CENT
Jersey City and Newark. I TWO CENTS.
VILLA IS BEATEN!
.
IN 7 HOUR FIGHT
FOR CHIHUAHUA
A Bandit, With 3,500 Bleu,
.Makes Four Futile At-
i
tacks on City.
FLEES SOUTHWARD
WITH HEAVY LOSSKS
Orranza Troops
1'lliMiui t
111 Ollv I
tiurvivors News of Fresh
Battle Awaited.
PKKSHLVU'S SUPPLY
LINE IS THREATENED
OutJaw Used Old Ruse to
Kut rap Gen. Trevino and
His Garrison.
Kr. I'aho, Tex.. Nov. 23. Francisco
Villa withdrew hit surviving forces In
di-frut from Chihuahua city at 0:15
o'clock; to-night nftcr a luttle of seven
hours during which he made four fruit-
lets attempts to carry Ocn. Trevlno'it
protecting works by assault, necordlliK
t,t If ports received by Uen. Gonzales
t Juarez from Chihuahua this tvenlng.
The bandits were driven from their
temporary Intrenchmcnts with heavy
lica unil the dc facto troops are now
punning; them towan' the routh.
When Villa, personally leading about
J.iOO men nrmed, and mounteJ. np-
...i.ehed Chihuahua c ty to-day the
t arranza General and the garrison be- I
Ittvcd the foroe of the bandit chieftain
v.is that of Gen. Murgula. reputed to
l.e msivhlnv north from Tiirreim tn the
relief of ChlhuulHii. Villa moved Ills
rtny In between Chihuahua nnd Tor
reon: then, mlvnnclns noith alnns the
Mexican Central Ilalliiud, was In the
Vers- llinlta of tho city bforo the
Identity of his men wjs discovered.
Snme tliisc I'scd Three A'eari, Ago.
It was In a similar manner lli.it Villa
canturtd the cl y of Justex on Novem
ber IS. 1 0 1 .1. idi i lie boldly seized
trains south of the border city and 1
wired to the general commanding the
Muerta forces In Juarez that he was
coming to his relief, signing the mes
sise In the name of a Federal general
s il then rhooting the telegraph op
erator. Villa sllpred Into Juarez and
captured the town before the Federal
de.'cnders discovered the ruse.
Tulegraph operators In Chihuahua
f'j-r' tha t the boon Ii g o7 bit mi I
Vj, .o loud tint thev could hardly heir .
t ic r instrument.-, ami that much damage 1
had been done i hi tli" cj"v. either llv .
' 1
ta'K'ng to teiesraph operators In Juarez
I1LIII1 nrr. frnnl the IT.irrnnEii Emna fir I
f ntu artillery with the Villa column. .
'i':e operators said they thought Villa
k . .i ' .. ..'.,... .. . ,." J ..'".
" lino .illtlliuotl I
"Ivlaicd the Vllllstas were III
control.
f f one section of the city and were haul-
lug ciT supplies In wagons, giving ' the J1-- thlnls. Lots of VC'd'le ' uie willing I Pm,mrraTO 10 Covernment of (ireat ltrlt
I iwc-s.lon at that hour that the attack ? m ,fa ,'" 'f'1', ?. 1 "T.'f 1 i "' '.ust also be taken into con-lde.a.
v nore for the purpiue of provision
s 'he Villa army than for taking the
till tile Itsues ill l)n.
At 3 o'clock the battle, which began
ft 11 A. M., was s.lll luging,
ti.e apparent advantage being with
'ne Government rorces. Villa Is re
Jrtcd by lien, (.onzales to have at least
t SO0 men. iiruetlcallv all or whom nre
sriueil and mounted, 1 1 Ij also bo- gross. I leurncii mat inmost any proposal
lleved to have machine guns, hut no would be permitted to go through with
he.uy artillery For this reason tho ' out dissent ir only a voice vote were
twenty or more heavy Held guns or Gen. demanded. Hut one determined man
Trevlno's command were able to rako 1 near the head or the list could change
Hi adwinelng lines or Villa bandits. Tho t the situation entirely when there was n
feld whs covered with dead nnd dying I roll call. So It Is In everything. What
men, one mesage Mated. i you may deem Impossible now may
A sortie by C.uranza cavalry, sup- easily come to pass If you but take a
V ted by artillery, resulted lu the cap- detetmltied stand,"
ture of many prisoners, who were with- Mr. Hryan Intend") to make a country
t'Jt ammunition and had gone since ' wide campaign ror prohibition, and be
miming without rood or water. J llcvcs It will eventually be adopted.
It Is reported here to-night that i
bandits, either rcpreaentlng Villa or I vACTftP WTKTIJ WT5W POMF.T
ome -other leader, have made their np- FA5TOK lHiJbfll.W tUMi.
pcarsnce southwest or Juarez, along the
I is of the Mexico Northwestern Rail
nad and as a result quantities of mer
r nndlse whlcli HI Paso merchniits were
'Hipping to Gen, Pershing's army have
Kosn otiiereii iielil in Juarez,
ir ibm' .itnniinn runiiniii,. it u in i. 1
reccstury for Pershing's army to get all I by the Hurvurd College Observatory to
supplies v motor truck from Colum-1 day. The minister-astronomer now has
t"is N M or take charge of the roll- ' four new comets to IiIb credit, a record
I ad Hid protect It. ' equalled by few, It was said,
The comet, so faint that It was ills.
MEXICANS ASK RECESS.
Want Time In l.sy l. S. Proposals
nrfore Cnrrnnsa,
. . . . . v. t v.... . ...
.. .i.ii,- . iii, ii, u., .-.tiv. -a, f.
" s of two weeks has been requested by
tne Mexican members of the Mexican-
Amerlran Joint cominlsrlou to give them
' oiejortunlty to lay before Gen. car
ranza the proposals formulated by the
A in leans for border control.
T ie indications weie to-night that the
Kipifst would be granted,
vticrto J, Panl probably will be dele
t led by his colleagues to confer pet
1 "illy with Oen. Cnrranza and irresent
o nun a detailed statement of the devel-
'tinieiits since Soeretury of the Interior
erlor
.mm,,
'
,...
l 'ine presented the Ainerlc.'in progranim
npprnvetl by President Wilson,
The Ainetlcans have earnestly
"pud to convince tlie Mexlcuns that
io convince me .iirn.iiiis nun
ncicemviit as has been proposed
i an i
would ,e
ohi ,,e n.nieuhie, hut t.en, rurranza s
foresentatlves have Insisted thu.i for
'hi' Uicy c.itiuot concur In n plnn wh Ich
fuaintuln would involve ine nunuii.
i i' id their country.
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mexl -
,,',':.mnl!lMr", V"L "L "i'tnJ,,.,.n:.
,ll irillUlll .1, IM'ltlll I .
niteti
'lt's nnili Mr. Paul returns or tliey
r. nltltiiilly 4nfotn,ed of the de facto
0 Kininenl's desires.
i' Ainuilcaiis nrobahly will spend,
ta kvii at their homes.
... .
H M AS A-TA ll-A-HUmlDA HKHOK1M
7hr ill il h'Uuilngo, 9:16 A. M ii lain
ii',. 'pjlrUmt t Tsnips. Only two nights out
ii unviiit, eDora Air Lane, iii uwsy,
r:? "T'i
WW 7EI1 ItfUI IUPIID M ml a1 E. 1
Automobile Manufacturer In
comes One of the BiggeRt
Policy Holders.
tl. T. Dunn of Toledo, a vlce-presl-dent
of the Wlllys-Overlsnd Company,
or.d president of the Flsk Rubber Com
pany, has taken out, life Insurance for
a tittle more thin SI.7S0.000. Thla be
came known yesterday when the last
or the policies was Issued and the big
transaction became a topic of dlrcus.
slon among Insurance men. The Kastrm
Vnihrxcrltcr la Ita current Issue will
publish the Ktory.
nodmau Wanamaker, according to re
port, carries more life Insurance than
this amount i John Wanainake r li sun-
lsosed to carry as much, but Mr. Dunn
. cr,atIe" 0,,B of ll,e 11,0,11 heavily
Injured men 111 thi tienrM When II n..
Iin.... .i r, .. ' ;
injured men In the world. When It wan I
disclosed that Tom Hl.exlln. the former '
Yale pinch, had been Insured for 11.000.-
0o not long liefom his death, the fact
l"""r" "iwiurrnine comment, uui jir.
, Putin In Insured for almost twice this
I sum.
j l'art of the- Insurance Is made out In
favor of the companies with which Mr.
Dunn Is connected. The rest Is Incomn
Insurance for his wife and daughter,
paying- them handsome annuities after
his death.
The Toledo man Is 41 years old, and
five physicians who examined him pro
uounced him an excellent risk. The poli
cies were Issued by twelve companies,
the largest risk assumed by any ono
company being In the neighborhood of
SI50.000. It took four solid days to put
Mr. Dunn through the physical rxnmlun
Hon dud to attend to the mass of detail
Incident upon Issuing the. many pollcle..
BRYAN TO CHAMPION
MORAL ISSUES ONLY
Tells 230 Members of Kotarv i
Clul He's Through With
Political' Question.
Wlmm .i,mi,11KH Ilryan is tlirougl.
rl,amplonlug or condemning political
, " .... , ., ... - ,
,K"f''; and "'rth will only attempt
10 'olv moral "e announced
l,'ls yesterday nfteruoon to ISO nieni-
bs of the Rotary Club at the McAlpin i
during his thlriv..lv venm nf netu- n.r.
tlclpatlon In the political arena that . conservation of the food supply of a
when a moral Issue is settled It Mays country. In t the latter category he
settled, which Is far more llian he could P'-ce" be embnrgo which is now advo
say for folltlcal Issues. - I cated to prevent the depletion of Uie
"I have been In Klltlcs quite a while," tooA supply of the I'nlted States,
he said. "Thirty-six yeais ago I started' ......
with nil the zeal of a oung man to talk Kroe In force Abroad.
about the tnrllT. 1 was a low tm"rrf"TrirMIcully nil the neutral rnuntrles
ng'tator. and suppo.ed that when I had
explained the situation, even to a Re
publican, Iia would see It that wuy and
that would lie the end of it. Hut after
thlrty-slv j ears' endenor I cannot say
that munv Republicans hae been con
verted. The tariff a discussed one
hundred years befoie 1 took It up. and
very likely will he dlscused fur another
hundred years.
"When a moi.il question It settled.
however, went on the Commoner. "It
"'"v" And 0 1 ","l,t quicker j mily be enacted. It Is regarded as prob-
aml mnrc ontlsfactory re-ults fr mi my ubi tllat an effort will be made In Con-,
"5or,,w- "'f?rn!' ,,,',don, ".sress to add a retaliatory sting to the
New urU- "kU ln"1' always should ac, a,, t0 attach to It provision for the
.1'iH li.r. ' lint ttiriill.F n. Int.. Ih.v n.l I .. .. - .... .
'. .. ,
"T.!,':
,, ,
icntlemen, this Is the age of roopera-
tlou and organization, and ho who would
M-r... (, ipn.ile tiillst li. willing in nffee
land lo sacrifice In order to make the,
o
side, ir tome one only will r.ile the',(Jn
standard and let them know where n Assurances from tho State DeDartment
common rallying place may ne ronmi.
ine politician win tiouge wiien me noug-
I nir Is good, but he will also stand up
and be counted when that Is the wise
thing for him to do. And it Is tor or
ganizations such us thin to convince the
politician what Is the wise thing for
him to do."
In conclusion, Mr. Hryan said: "Twen-
ty-flve years ago, when I was in Con-
The llrt.
,1. II, .Me tea If lias Four
l Ills Credit. I
CAMsntrxig. Moss., Nov. The dls.j
i encerv of u new comet by Rev. Joel H.
Metralf or Winchester was announced
covered only hv photography, was first
seen by Mr. Metcalf on November 21, In
Us ottleliU leport on the, discovery the
Harvard Observatory states It was made
on "November 21, 5C73 Gieenyrtch mean
keeninn. .t hours, as miu.
, nine ., , ,
....... n- imn, Heel list on nl IIS 13 lie-
i-iuiee, v - - - 't-
gree, 32 minutes, 50 seconds.
The dallv motion was stateu at ll.u
minutes iff time, west ; 3j, I niinuies un .
south.
PYflHANOK SEAT AT S7G.O0O.
ItAUUflHUM '
year'. UUhc. Prlcr ..,. by fret.
r: tfmv tn llas Cstale
... . .. ..
... . . i , ,,
A new high recoi id pr ice for the year
, (or r ve iterd a y by t Ii e s 1 1 e n f
.vas esta fd 's h'11"5.. , ,"wnr.
tho '7'1,),'I7'' '' ' ' l'r,r?e "n K ,y " for
Ln"" The , ev oi. high for th,
S70.000, The pit V loin lligll ioi tin,
17 i00
,,aJ ' , '''. nonald Mackay
transfer to Albert Hrumley.
P" ' Xll;ert Josephson to Kmanuel .1.
,-V. . , . washlngtnn O. Sturges
I ;"jH; p, callery. Thee trunstcrB
1 " ' " i'p i,-rinkel Henry I., n.
Frank II. Kreecli ami W. I.. Right.
are to ne mum- m ,-.
. i . .. . ,ii nn
Lewis,
tighter have
i ; .,., ,,,mhi,r
, peen nei.r.
" '
Vienna HanU Deposits Inrreaar.
.,... .., n, wlreleiw). Nov. 23. De.
iir.iit.i,. ' "j " . .
, nosltH In tho savings banks of Vienna
now amount to 100,000.000 kroner more
than on the corresponding date of last
vear says the Overseas News Agency,
Deposits In ether banks, It la a4ded, are
ioo'otO.OM (froBar mora than Uat year,
WILSON WILL NOT
OPPOSE AN EMBARGO
Attempt Seen to Redeem Foiir-.vear-old
Promise to Cut
Food Cost.
LAXSIXO TAKES A HAND
Seerctar.v'Sa.vs Tssite Is Purely
Domestic mid Not
Hetaliatorv.
Wasjhnuton, Nov. JS. Information
was obtained to-day that the Adminis
tration. In an effort to redeem In pome
measure tho promise for a lower cost '
of vln ma-Cronr vears aso will no 1
, ' ' ?. n'1" rour "s mo. will not
oppose the proposal for an embargo on
looustulTs.
There has been reluctance In Adinln- j
Isliatlon circles to take a step which'
inluhl bo misinterpreted by the coun
tries at war. but It Is understood the
Administration ottlclals feci bound to
support the embargo at leat passively,
since the cost of the necessities or life.
Instead of declining, has mounted
rapidly to a level at which many ar
ticles of food can be bought only by
those who are more than welt to do.
For this reason Representative Fltx
gerald of New York Is secure In the
knowledge that he will have at least si
lent a pino vn I from Hie executive end
of the avenue when he places his pro
posal for an embargo before Congress.
A Doateallr Question."
That the Stale Department does not
desire the Impression to go abroad that
the measure Is In any degrep Intention
ally retaliatory was Indicated to-day by
a statement of Hecretary Lansing, In
which he said he consldeied the question
puiely a domestic one and one In which
the .State Department had no concern,
lie nuthorlxcd this statement:
"The Department of Ktate has no
VleWJt fill thlH mnttl.1 1.4 It I. unlln.lo
l,on,f8t,c 'iu'l,on-"
ii nns anmiiieu lit uie Mate Depart
ment, however, that foreign Powers
uilRlit. on the ground that an embargo
on foodstuffs has the aspect .of a re
taliatory measure, take exception to
such action by the United Htates. In
his announcement yesterday Represen
tative Fitzgerald gave basis for such an
assumption by saying the food embargo
would afford a certain measure of retalia
tion against (Jreat liritaln for blacklist
ing American firms.
fecretury Iinslng said the embargo
Propossd might
under certain clrcum-
act of war, a measure of
retaliation, or u. domestic policy for the
of llurope have such measures lu force,
and lu no case have they lieen regarded
lis a ilnlfitlnii nf neiitrutltv Tim .laol i -
ration of Setrclarv fainsinir 1. luken tnl'" IJirclimoiit to lerover the gems.
mean that If the Administration will not:
,,c, ,..u. .un . . r , , UIIUII nilNHlk,
actively support an embargo measure. It
will nt lensl make tin nhlertlnii ti It mi .
the ground that it might Involve the
I'nlted States lii International compllca-
(Ions. I
Attention will be given, however, to
the circumstances In which the measure I
limitation or prevention of the exporta
tion of war munitions, which the State
Department would regard us a violation
Z ,7 S ,,,, T.tL" i, . 7.
""'" ". .'." '
IIKe icepresentniivc I'lizgeraiu, woo iaor
nil embargo act. would advocate It to
i (i , i.ale ,,. neatest obstacle lni"hH prepared to dress for the opera she
- .,. .,i,,. .pii, n.i.
Hon to such a mensure In Congress n.
rcir. Mr, Fitzgerald admits the measure
will run a perilous course before It Is
submitted to the President for approval.
Hut that It will have many supporters is
also uppnrent. Many messages were re
ceived at Mr. Fitzgerald's office to-dny
commending the course he has purposed
to take.
HART1GAN ASKS AID.
t'rar Hlntr Storngr liivesllHnllon
to Kee U l.nir Is Kvadrd,
A leqiiesl that the cold storage ware
houses In and nenr New York be In
spected carefully to see If food has not
been kept In them longer than the law
ullows was mado yesterday to State
Commissioner of Agi '.culture Charles S.
Wilson by Joseph J, llartlgau, Commis
sioner of Weights and Measures. Mr,
llartlgau raid his Inspectors had not
tho uuthorlty to determine this and
that he believed such power lay In Mr.
Wilson's office.
Although Mr. llartlgau did not say
there had hem Insufficient inspection of
these places to determine whether food
had been iiroperly marked with the date
of Its entry Into storage, he said that It
such a condition did exist, the neglect
would undoubtedly encourage specula
tlon In food
Also. If food knit lu ware -
houses beyond the time the law allows,
were released, lie neueves it might
greatly relieve the present situation.
"I would be violating the law If I
used my Inspectors to Inspect the cold.vember IT. II la granted, tho company
.
Sioruge .iiiiius ui new i urn nun ,icw
. .. '. .... ....... . .. ... ...
I jersey, lie saiti, uui i ueneve uie nre-
relarj. of Agriculture has that right, nnd
. nsklng him to make an Investlga.
(,aI) tt) nn() out lr t10 )aw jias b
I violated. The cold storage houses nre
1 filled with food to be bhlpped abroad be
' cattse or the luclt of shipping facllllles,
I n.l nt thtu limn nf venf tlu.v Htn mil la
I and nt this tlmo of year they aie npt to
"iJf, "a time food may
be kept In storage Is about ten months.
, ..,., ,1,., ., i
, niii one o I ill,. lu rinuri iitw iMn te
j nllMlh, food fl0m Kew yorI to Naw
' -W or t0 fjinnfctlcttt just before tlm
,s ""' "nu V1? ' ,0 ,J"7 ''oM
l0'K', ''.M Ior,1B"H V1""1'11' ,lmt wTr?
"'"N,''1 " tare on the market
,,0,1(,(leral)e lmtltlcs of food held for
speculation.
Rorough President Marks announced
vesterdny thnt he wns heartily In favor
iif thn terminal market plan advocated
by Commissioner Dillon, and recom
mended that the committees on markets
of tho Hoard or lCstlmato work In con
junction with tho Stato Committee of
Foods nnd Markets to solve the 'market
problem.
"That solution, however, would require
lime," he said, "and llm only practical
Immediate relief, hs I see It, would he to
reestablish the puhllu markets on their
former bails. They Immediately checked
the rising price of food two years ago
and there Is no reason why tsey should
Continuid on fturth IMftt
$60,000 HARRIMAN
JEWELS ARE FOUND
Two Men Under Arrest In Con
nection With Disappear
ance Of (ll'lllK.
ON K A HANK K.MPI.OVKK
Traced liy Sitlc of Ituhy n
Maiden Lane his-.
Met.
Mr. II. it. Horrlman's Jewels, stolen
from her home. Fifth avenue nml Sixty
1,1 turret, anu misgcu on .
vm.h., 11 ,,. i. t .,..i
A m "
Orvllle Daggett. 422 qulnry
ninth tvtreet. and nilsed on Monday
stteet.
Rrooklytt, and Atthur P. Daggett of
friri)initm V X n. 1.t..LA.1 mi Ill tn.
lice lleadi.uuite.e. .banted with the
theft.
The police blotter reads that, acting
In concert, they stole two rubles, one
diamond and a pbitlmnn chain et with
diamonds, all valued :it 160.005.
The complainant against the men Is
Clement Charles Tegethoff. manager of
the Ilarrlman estate. itrllle Daggett
was arrested at Ms home, and Arthur
was arrested at 475 Fifth avenue, the
office of the Harrlmun estate.
Orvllle gau his age as ii years and
his occupation as cleik. Arthur P, said
he Trns 42 jears old and had no occupa
tion. Arthur I'. Daggett wa In charge of
the afe deposit aults of the Fanners'
Loan and Trust Company, which 1 lu
the same building uh the oltlce of the
Ilarrlman ciiate. nt 475 Fifth avenue.
Mrs. I tu 1 1 1 :na ii has a large safo deposit
box there, with a separate combination.
Photographs of the gms were sup
plied to the police when the lo? was re
ported. They went first to the Maiden
lane district and quickly got trace of
one of the rubles. It had passed
through six or eight hands nt the tlmy
they found It nnd euih party to the
transaction had made about (301) on It.
they say. The Duggelt brothers, they
say, had received only t00 for It.
Descriptions of tho man who hud sold
the ruby led the police to Orvllle Dag
gett, a clerk for (he White Star Line In
the offices of the International Mercan
tile Marine, 10 Ilro.idwuy. learning
that his brother was an employee of
the trust company, with access to the
safo deposit vaults, th rest was com
paratively simple.
Arthur P. Daggett was arrested yes
terday afternoon in the bank building
and questioned. According to detectives,
he. bloke down and told hi-!e the
Jf'vels Kcle tu he fotlllil. When lhe
had his story. Detectives John lloyle and
ilccrge It, (irltlln set out for his home
Tll,' returned early this morning
. ' .
wlth ,he valuable necklace. They found
U 111 pocket of un Old pair of trousers
'" Raggett's home. It was lu Its original
r,, annuel bug, which In turn had been
stuffed Into a tobacco suck,
The ble Ulanlond. which was mounted
..V!" ruuies and the thirty-five
' diamonds. Is missing, but dotec-
'ye say they know where It I- and
' K" '''"'- The largest ruby
"covered, together with the small
lillitti.itnl..
diamonds.
Mrs. Harrlmun lust saw the Jewels
In March. In May, when she went to
Arden House, her country home, she
look her Jewel box without opening It
and put It lu thu vault.
She took the box again without open
ing It. on tile day or the onelllli of the
opera, and when she arrived at her
home put It lu the wall safe. When
illscuvcrru Her lues. That made t ill
possible lo tell Just where the gems had
been lost, whether from the wall safe
or the safe deposit vault,
Mis. Harrlmun. dressing for the open
ing of the opera season on the evening
or November 13. onenrd the wall safe In
1 her room to get out the diamond neck
, lace, which she seldom wore but hud
locked up several mouths before. Thn,
I necklace and several other pieces ofi
Jewelry were gone. Saying nothing, she j
went to the opera,
Next day she untitled Arthur Woods,
Police Commissioner, anil special detee-i
tlves were put on the case, livery effort
was made lo keep the loss of th" Jewels
a secret. Private detectives aided the
police. A peculiarity of the case was
Hint when the news of the Incident did
become public none of the pel sons con
cerned would rail It a lobbery. but le
ferred to It simply iim a loss,
It now uppeurs that this meant noth
ing except that thn house had not been
burglariously entered, The sure showed
no signi or Inning been molested.
NEW ENGLAND RAISES WAGES.
s
Itnbher nnd Coltiiti llmplii; ees He
cell e liii-rrnsetl Pa).
...
HRIHTOi., ii. i.. .ov , in pei-
cent, wage Increase ror more than 3.000
, employees of Us local plants wus an.
nounced to-day by tho National India
Rubber Company. Mho Increase, given
to every employee who t pee ves less
than .2,300 n year, will be effective No -
stated, because "obnormal world roudl
Hons lend the management tn feel the
need of an emergency Increuse In the
earnings of Its employees."
Similar Increases ut plants controlled
by the I'nlted Stntes Rubber Company
In Woonsocuct ami .-uiiiviiie, .muss., will
rrect several thousand employees,
. . lflUa V,,.- 'n ,,
Lowr.l.t.. Mass., Nov. 23, Cotton mills
d.lu ,.,t fiminnnee,! tn.ihiv nn l.
. " J1? ' " S00 on. fa.Kes'm
u,. .K 1KC(.mber 4. The amount of
tlw Increase wus not slated.
Manciiksthii, N, It., NOV
23. The I
An70tBK .ManiifacturlUK Company,
whose cotton ii.anur.iclntlng plum i-un
ploying 1 S.0OO, Is raid to be the largest
,vorld, announced to-ulght a raise
.,,,. ...Ub,taiitlullv thn same In
In wages "substantially the same In
amount as given In other textile cities In
New Rnglanil, to tnke effect on Decern
her 4," This Is the third Inereuso granted
by the rXmoskcaT company In tho calen
dar year.
MONEY IS MADE CONTRABAND.
'Great Britain Forbids Mien Letters
nf Cretlll nr Drafts.
Loriro::, Nov 23. A royal proel.iina
Hon Issued to-duy declares that gold
liver nnd piper money, securities,
checks, drafts, letters nf credit and any
negotiable Instruments or documents re
lating to tho transfer of money, aredlt or
Mcurltlea will ba treated aa contraband.
ITALIANS SMASHING
A WAY TO OGHRIDA
Menace Capital of Ancient
Unitarian Kmpire as
Allies Advance.
HE It IIS AND FRENCH OA IN
Attacking Troops North of
Monastic Are Handicapped
by Winter.
l'AKls, Nov. 23. While Serbs and
French uie battering the strong defence
of nermann and Iliilgnrn In their new
mountain positions north of Monastlr,
the Italians of fleu. Sarrall's army are
winning (heir first victories since they
effected a Junction with the alftVd foices'
"J ,h' ttor of Albania a month ago
The Italians on the left wing of the,
western Macedonia line are bringing
their lines up even with the French and
flerbs, flitlng In the difficult country ,
between Lake Ochrlda nnd leike Piesba.
The Italians are striking at Ochrlda,
twenty-mo miles northwest of Monastlr,
and the capital of the ancient Bulgarian
empire.
Strengthened by nipre reenforcmcnts,
most of them Herman troops, the Hul-
gars aie maklnr a strong defence on n 1
line roughly three miles north of Mon-I
astir. In mountainous country, with tho
llulkan winter settling down, the nt-.
tacklnir trnou. nr. under ureal dlsad-1
vantage, wtilch the French statement to
day emphasizes.
Capture of Villas ' Oobromlr.
The ftatement reads :
Aimy of the Uust The ftiuggle
contlnueg under very difficult toiidl
lions. Nortli of Monastlr the enemy,
who Is resisting with stubbornness, re
celveil reenforcements and attempted
violent counter attacks, which failed.
The French troops. In the course of n
brilliant assault, captured the village
of Dobromlr, while the Serbs toott pos
session on our right of the village of
Paralovo. Three, hundred prisoners,
Germans or Bulgarians, remain In our
hands us u result of these actions.
West of Monastlr the Italian troops
made new progress. On the western
shore, of laike Presba we have ad
vanced to the outskirts of Ilotesoo.
Our airplanes bombarded enemy en
campments In the region of Topochanl
nnd Prltep. In the course of un aerial
fight one of our airplanes brought
doHii two enemy machines In the
Drama sector.
' Italians Kepalae A Mark.
The Italian statement says:
In Macedonia the Italian troops on
Monday were engaged In the mountain
region west of .Monastlr and repulsd
a violent attack from Mount Muxa
Then pressing their advance In a north
erly direction they captured heights
louth of Ilnullr.ol (Hratlnuotvi norm-
.
i west of Monastlr Wednesday.
The Geimuit statement follows-
.Macedonian front: Kngsgemen's
east of ltke Ochrlda were ended by
the retreat of the enemy.
On the German-Uulgarlan front, be
tween Presba Lake utid the eastern
Cerna, there were several local ad
vances. Strong attacks by the enemy
on height position east or Parulove
were repulsed,
Hnlaurlnns Deny sdmnce.
Yeterduy's Hillgsrlan announcement
hj s :
Uotwecn I.aliH Ochrlda and Lake
Piosbn theie were engagement
Willi advanced guards of the enemy's
Infantiy pushing forward north of
Monastlr, which were, lepulsed. In
the Ceinii bend nil the desperate at
tacks or the enemy on 1 1 1 1 1 1059, east
or Paralovo, were broken by the de
trrinlned resistance or the German
Chaussetir Guard,
South or Monastlr an enemy air
plane ws brought down In names i.e.
hind the enemv's lines.
On both sides or the Vardar, nt
the foot of the Helaschttza Mountnlus,
and on the Struma front there whs
weak intllteiy tiring. Along the
Aegean thero wns a lull,
The Set lilan official communication l-
sued to-day says.
There was violent fighting yestenlaj
over the whole front against the Get
iiimii foires. Nevertheless the Heihlaii"
advanced In places tcuvard the north
und i .pulsed hiidlle counter attacks
The area of Serhlu now llbnated
aggiegates I, '.'HO kllomctviM,
GALE HITS THE CITY.
Dniiliillf ltiH "lid Ashore In slorra
I'roin Soulh,
... .1.. .l... -..I.- .1....
.or in ioc iirio-m inni tin
ool of the biiltnv enuih hit ih.
boroughs 5esterday aflernoon and lust
night, sending the omclal anemometer
spinning at a fii mile rate for several
minutes, wiecklug umbrellas and tho
disposition of their custodians nnd creat
1 I ....-1. ...... ....., I.I.. i.Hn.l n...l
IllK .-.none in, niiuoi kiiu ueiiuie.
Long Island Sound was lushed ulmoM
' ".'"';' ,',', ' ml,n!",n
to Atlantic fury, and nine barges In a
' S: , . r v- ii. ' . "",
' I ,5,"''!!r! ,,l,rViw i"1"' fou"ll,;!;r'1
i'","",.!;.,r1.,'.CJ,,l?'
.. ,",.. iTT.,er. . i i
LI . '. '
coal nnd sand, brought one Into Hrldge
port last night. All hands were saved
by the Garrett, ,Tho Connecticut River
tug Spartan wiih furred to bturh three
of her tow of live barges near Hrldge
pott. A tleet or small craft sought
I u,.!.,,.
i "Ouoo
safety in vuuous narhors along the
I . ' "'"""-"V. -arm
" '"..,". , r rVr '
i caching a higher figure In the street
Tne propncis sn itio rxy may lie over-
. . w -. .1. . ..I .
cast to-tiay aim uie temperature, cooler.
To-morrow may he fair and colder.
"
, U. 8. UA1 lit UULU WW.UUU.UUU.
Total
Nov
Imports In Vear
F.llded
I Totalled oHl,on,000.
WASill.snTON', Nov. 23. The net In
wurd gold movement for the twelve,
months ended with November 1 was
estimated to-day at IS1, 800,000 In n
Department of Commerce statement.
Total Imports were B6,000,000, and
1 17,000,000 in gout was exported. Dur-
g the previous year tho gold balance
e ............... ......
a',h (itiiv a.i::n. .mil. mm. Hnit nnrititr iiia.
ear before thut Imports were smaller
iy (H7.-00.000 than exports.
riNEHtntrr hotklh and oolf mnkh
now open. luq. Besboard AlrUne.lIllai'way,
JisV. . .
belgians forced to work,
MUST FEED THEMSELVES
I German Decree Warns Civilians That All Will Be
Made to Labor War Levy Increased
'$2,000,000 a Month.
London, Nov. 23, A copy of a procla
mation Issued by order of tho German
commandant at Antolng, Helglum, giving
Instruction to workmen has been re
ceived here. The proclamation Bays that
lifter receiving their wages, which will
le paid If their rei vices ure voluntarily
given, workmen must feed themselves,
ii nit adds:
'The (lerniatt authority notifies the
people that cIvlllaiM may be forced to
woik If theio an- Insiitllclent volunteer
workmen, for example, for work In fac
tories, sawmills, workshops or on farms.
In the Held, and In the building of rail
ways or road.. The population will
never be forced to lulior on works ex
posed tu continual fire.
In caso of icfurul to work the person
J? "fusing will be condemned to penal
i,o 1,1 w nil.-, iiiifii iriiiiiiit'iib t.nu .-iiiioi-
inent III the iiilson liHttallmi uf civilian
workmen, with minced lutlons. The
communes nl.o may be punished, either
JlJ' j' fl ne or 't a xc".' Ac!"' ""PO!,"U"'
Asked In the Itmis .,f r-nnimuns lo-
day If In view of the deportations of Mel
glnns the Allies would reconsider their
policy of allowing supplies to go Into the
territory lu possession of the Germans,
Isjrd Robert Cecil, Minister of War
Trade, said theie was no doubt that the
action of tile German lioveiniiieiit con
stituted a "deep mid conscious blow to
the agreement upon which the relit f
woilt rests
considered In that ght by the
Allies" added lird Robert, - and J tiust
"' by the neutral tioveiiunents whoe
representatives ami suujecis ure ciiieny
responsible for the work."
The German levy on Helglum has been
Increased rroin 40,000,1)00 riants (is.- i
KAISER WARRING ON
GREEKS. SAY ALLIES
i
Decision to Sink Ships Trans
porting' Hebel Troops Called
Declaration.
Paris, Nov. J J. A Havas despatch
from Athens sas that the warning by
Vlce-Admlral du Fournet to the Ger
man and other Ministers of the Central
Powers that they must quit Athens was
the result of the German decision to
rink all vessels transporting Greek revo
lutionary troops, which the Kntente
Powers regarded ns a declaration of
ne MMttn.t li nreek revolutionists.
The" despatch sas the Turkish Mln-'
Ister asked the American .Minister in
take charge or Turkish Inteiests In
Athens.
Tile train on which Prlnc Demldoff.
ii,.ii Minister tn Athens, was eolm;
'to Halonlca was fired on by bunds or
reservists, ncrordlng tn an Alliens des
patch to the Pffft Parish it. u the le-
' turn Journey the train was dualled hv
a criminal band, the despatch says, close
to Lltoehorl. but no one was hurl In
either attempt.
I A.detnchme.nt or French marines has
occupied a station on thu Peloponnesus;
Railway,
WILL KEEP ARMS.
(ireeee Itefnses Allies' 11 e inn ml for
j Surrender tf Munitions.
IiNPoV, Nov. 23. The Greek Govern-,
i ment has refilled to comply with the
1 demand of tile Kntente allies for the sur
render of part of Its supplbs of arms
and ammunition, Renter's Alliens cor
I respondent cables.
The correspondent's despatch reads as
'follows:
I "The Greek Government has refused
the demands of Vlce-Admlral du Four-
net that Greece sui render eighteen field
butteries, sixteen batteries or mountain
I artillery with 1,000 shells : fur Mill, 40.-
000 Mann chers with 220 cartridges
each, 140 machine guns with umniunl -
i tlon and fifty motor vans.
"Refetilng' to Admiral du Foul net's
fo,?,vu".!,.mi..v,ir.ri".::.f iv::...'"":
H". : P.. .-""..'
'..e..,..ii retilirs lint nlthoiiKh It does
Z'ZZ:i'nU? P-er;:ou,d'm.,'ap:
prove of resistance to the Central pow
ers without abandoning neutrality, but
.1 ill v piotestcd. It also contends that
the' guns already taken by the Kntente
uie modem, while those taken by Hul
garla were obsolete.
"The reply concludes that the sur-ii-nder
t war material for financial
. silPiU nonl.l ...,m.
1 lV,ll'rt w....... ;
,,,,. n flnErallt v lll.lt Oil Of lic'lltra tlv
. "I1.u" " "ngra u loi.u i n c tv
I "'7 "!;.,' , 1 1. , Z. o ,
,'.,, n,,i , t i. ia,iH i,, ,i, fe,i
i,,teiets if these weie in.
dangeied."
fjrrmnn Denounces llxpiilslnu.
kkun. via London. .Nov. y:t -tier.
, many oiucuuiy iisriiiu-u lu-ouj i.ie expui-
"Ion nf her Ministers from Giee.e. Her-
Wt. France and Great Hrltai.i against
fi,a,P!'' Franco anti ureal run u against
tins niocuerv tu i.iierim. ion,,,
TPOW MONP.V TiTR SflATHlTTJAVTA
Acllini Via de Vecessnry Ii) llrltlsli
Hun nil Copper.
Cul'KNHAilK.N (via London), Nov. 23
The .Viiftotuil 'i'Mciue says that as a re. ;
suit of negotiations between Denmark. 1
Sweden and Norway lio.i money Is (
SIIOI
Slioniy 111 I'" lesueu in ,mii-r oi copper
, ..... ,. ,. Ilml nve , vUvv)l,
.,.,,. ,.0ns hitherto have been made ,
I , r0,,er. but the expoit of coppei ,
! ntaies was recently stopped by Kuvland. I
owing, It is siaicu, tne tiriiisn on
I lief that large quantities of the copper
' ";ul i"ll,lu " n' liiiau.
PRESIDENT HAS A COLD.
Citiicels MntzaKriiirnts nml Keeps tu
Ills Bedroom.
Wasiunutos, Nov 23 President
WIIhuii t imet lied several enguKemeiits
to-d.4y and 'Ppi r,,"ii"1r',,,,,.Mm U"J
.A,ntr if 1,1. Iietiroom heeutls nf ..,
- ' -
in uk oenroom necause of a
slight cold cuugtit sexeral dnye ago.
Senator-elect Gerry of Utiode island
was among the duv.011 who were to havo
seen Win. If the President Is better to.
morrow the usual Friday Cabinet meet
ing will b hild.
000,000) n month to 50,000,000 francs
($10,000,000), according to a Reuter's
Amsterdam despatch quoting the ii'cAo
lletge. The despatch says the new order
whs l.aueil tiv the (Invernor-flcneral of
Helglum and was signed by the Duke ofl
... .. 1... ..... i..lA.lrlol, i-nn"
ii iirriiemuui k niiu vim. .....
Folkenhauseii. It states, that tho levy
Is to pay the cost of maintenance of the
German army of occupation and the.
German admlulstiatloii of the occupied
teitllory.
tlSO.Ouu Men Uenertea.
IlAVIlK. Nov. 23. S!50 P. M. A tele
gram sent by the Belgian Minister of
Foreign Affair to the Helglan Ministers
at Rome and Mudrld to be communicated
to 1'ope lienedlct and King Alfonso says:
"The situation lu Uolglum is becoming
day by day more frightful. The raids
on Belglun extend throughout the whole
country. If they aro not sent lo work
lu Germany In munitions factories they
aro sent to the occupied parts of Franco
to work on sj stems or Itttuches and the
sliatcglc lullwnys of Mile, Aulnuy and
Gliet. The Germans boast of having
already deported 350,000 men.
"The Governor-General pretends In
declarations made to a reporter of the
New York 7'linc that depoitatlons In
mass pass without Incident and even
that the Belgians go Joyfully. In reality
they suffer moral toiiure and tho ph)b
Ical pains or slavery.
"Helglum Is delivered over to the
violence or the military authorities, while
the cvlll authorities upprove and etund
aside.
"Insist rtronelv that the Government
to which you uie accredited Invito the
German Government to reflect on the
consequences or the treason to humanity
conunmeu in us name.
GERMANY TO FORM
ARMY OF CIVILIANS
Hill in Hciehstas Will Force
All Men Into "Auxiliary
Service'
11f.hi.in-. by wireless, Nov. 23. War
service or civilians Is provided for In a
bill now before the Reichstag. This Is
to be known as the "patriotic auxiliary
service," and the Overseas News
Agency quotes provisions of the bill u
follows :
"All males from 17 years up to M will
be oh eed to do pair otic auxiliary ser
vice during the war with the exception
of those already engaged In military
service.
"Auxiliary service will be considered
In addition to the work of ottlclals ot
state, that rendeied In war Industries,
agriculture, hunltatlou and In war or
ganlratlons of any kind, or such us is
of dliect or Indirect Importance for
purposes nf warfare.
"Tho direction of the patriotic aux
lllary service will be entrusted to tho
recently established War Department.
The Fedeial Council will rrgulate the
executive measures,
"Coniiaventlons will be punished by
Imprisonment up to one yeitr or by a
tine up to lO.OOo marks (J-.'.SOO)."
RUSSIAN DREADNOUGHT
SINKS, 200 ARE MISSING
I'ctrofrriid Illumes Internal Kv
plosioti Hit a Mine,
Says Unlearnt.
Pktkookad, Nov. 23, via London, Nov,
i Russia otllclally announces the loss
; f h dr,.aiinouKht Imperatrltsa Maria.
1 A statement Issued to-night reads:
"At 6 o'clock on October 20 tiro broke
I , , t)li) folwdr, irB;lrtie of the
in,,.er..ints m....... a inter,..,, ex.
i.loslon followed immediately
mil tlie
i "le spread rapidly uud leached the
! ST wtiie ItZrSt Z
''"V?'""
tie nut Mifcuii "
chief, Vice-Adtiiii.il Kolschuk, went
about d and took personal cominnud of
the operations.
"Shortly after 7 o'clock, however, the
... I u.,.l, l'l,u ee...tt.e mitt nf the
crew we're saved, All otllcer and two
lirst class Mib-olllceis and 119 sailors
i are missing. .-imj-iouc 01 uie irciv
are missing. Mxiyjuur oi ine crew
l.,rt .lift, I f,,,t IV... err.ntu nt'
I ,la,t eiovu ...i,. ...v.- ...
died f i om tho effects or
"The po-ltlon of the ship, which lies
In shallow water, gives nope
water, gives hope that it
tnav lie rruoairu aim compieieiy re.
pall nl In a few months. The bridge
Is only one yaid below water level."
1 The Imperatrltsa Maria win one of
the three dreadnoughts of Russia's Illaek
! Sea Meet before the war. She was
, launched In 1!H. displacing 22,r.OO tons
- 'V armament r
, ,lr,'.11Kllt, lter armament consisted of
... , u1Si vonty
Inch
guns, clpht smaller guns and four tor -
l- ...l.AJ It..- ,rw..l u-l. t,..Afitt.-,tn
ll'cd
.iril,. lUL'er. eem . ,. . ...
, k ,
' Harlv in November a report was In
ell illation that the Imprrntrltsa Maria
liml gune to the bottom and that nearly
all of her clew had perished,
FRANCE TO RAISE TAXES.
I ttereitse
In I. ex Irs K.x peeled
to
Me)d atUO.IKIIl.tlOO a Venr.
1 Pvhib Nov. 23. New taxes which n regain ine ouens,,., n,, mru mo ,us
1 is eHthmib-d wilt ylehl 00.0U0.000 franc" I trU" '"'"r '"i. "r ?"Ht
I ((120,000,000) have been decided on
by the appropriation committee of the
Chamber ot Deputies, after many weeks
of coiiilderutlon.
Among the measures will bn nn In
, creiiso In the Income tax from 2 to 3
' per cent., the taxes on tho )lehl from
securities from 4 to Ii per cent, nnd
i nu sugar from 23 to 40 francs per
1 metric hundred weight,
i There will also be Increases In the
taxes on tobacco, wine, beef, letter post
sgs. cnTf!, chocolate, tea, vanilla,
mineral waters and a great vailety nf
other ,-ittlcles, hihI also op horses, ve
hides, hllliurdH and dogs.
tr, IVusL's Knmjrae Every drink adds
itw itreufTh anil curt. isYerfiffSUnf,
ROMANIAN ARMY
TAKES STAND TO
CHECK INVADER
Army Iletires to Alt Valley,
Only 90 Miles From v,
Bucharest.
)
TEUTONS ARE HOLDING!
io,000 SQUARE MILES!
Control Nearly -Half
of
Western Section of
Country.
ARMY IN OIJSOVA MAY
RE LEFT TO ITS FATE
Allied Forces Renew Activh
ties in the Dobrnilja
Campaign.
I.oNDov, Nov. 23. Ten thousand
sqiiarti tulles, nearly half of wentenj
Itiitnanla, have lieen yielded to tho Inst'
vadltig Teiitonn by tho Rumanian)
army which lost Craiova. Thn Itu
manlans huve retrited to tho Alt VaU
ley, ninety miles west of Bucharest,
where they plan to tnuko u stand.
This Is tho opinion here In the light
of un official statement issued to-day
by the Rumanian War Office, lis first
ofllclul word Hlnce Sunday. H Is
lleved this statement spells the aban
doning of the Rumanian urmy nt Or-
sovu. In Hungary, to Its fate. Thla
army appears to be surrounded.
Rumania thus relinquishes, becnuso
of von I'alkenhayn'.t successful and
rapid strategy, u part of tho rich grain
country ot tho Wullachlau plain. A
good filiate of this country, however, la
till protected by the Alt and the new
Rumanian line.
As the Tluuiur.Ian official statement is
read here It means that the Rumanians
havo retreated east along the front for
a distance of from twenty-five to rorty
miles. Thla retirement has, bcn made
along a front or approximately u hun
dred miles, 4t Is believed.
Tho Itumanlans admit that "our troops
were withdrawn from the nlley of. tha
Jlu, where they were defeated nt Cial
ovu," It Is believed that the statement
Indicates they have ntlicd to tho Alt
(Oltu) Valley, or at least to the Oltelu.
a western tributaiy of lliu Alt.
ShiiU Their lliirurs.
Tho Hulsailan statement bears out
tlUs belief. It says that the Rumanians
"sank theJr b.uges on the Danube
and tlestiojeil the bildgn near Corahl.i,
where they set tire to etorc-i of am
munition." I'oinbl.i is on the Danube,
u few miles west of the mouth of tho
Alt. if llu Rumanian hues fui titer
north weiv retiring behind tho Alt,
fin tiler south. I'oralila would be uban-
l dolled uud tho Runiaiilans thero would
have to letlie
' The mention of u bridge near Cmnbla
Is inystifylug, No permanent bridge
across thn IMtlillut exists there, Tlio
Hulgarlau statement may mean a hrldga
across tho Alt, near Cornhla, by which
the letlremeiit across tho Alt was ef
fected. To-night's German statement casts
no ie.il light upon die momentous sit
uation lu Rumania. H says simply that
"In Wullai-liia il. oporailons a.e pro.
gicslni; in aei, ml. u.ee with our plans."
The tluv stalrllieti: slid ihe Hituation
wus iiiuliaiiRed. Tlie Itubsiau statement
says Ihe sun,'
Three hundred ru'Vy i-nrs fell Into
Gerinun hands tit I'miova. thn tatt.
incut adds, 'Mi addUlon to other booty,"
tho nature of which Is not specified.
The stain ent ul"u Indicates that tlm
Austrian Archduke Joseph Ferdinand,
who had commaiidtd tho Fourth Anny,
Js now In command In Transylvania
since tlie accession or tint Archduke
! Chatles Fr.mels Joseph to the llitniin on
' U'" l,,'a,1, of -raiic-U Joseph.
. .. ni,,,-,, t....,l i-.,..i.
-,nin Inform itleii nt hand ohserveis
hoc believe tint tho Rumanian army at
' Hru- i Is (testltiml in entiilnet m .titlilinen
last stand defence in help tint defeated
Jlu army reorganize. It appears, that tint
Oisova army, cut off nppaiently from all
aid mid Hiirinuinled. Ins been ordered to
hold out tu , f i.nst while a strong de
renco s pieparnl elsewhere A stubborn
defence nt Orsov.i would hold stiong
Teuton fou-cs und pi event their being
thrown at the ne Alt front before It
was. strong enough to vvlthM ind them.
The following otllfi.il communication
1 ........
! 'I"1 VI
i was Issiieii lo.iia.v ny .Mistt.au bead-
,.,... ... . I,. I. . .........
I'lOOl il .ill iiiuiiht
on thn
lower '"erna we tit toot on ihe left
bank of ihu siieam. ntherwlsn
there Is notliing new In Wall ichlo.
t Orsov.i Is at thn mouth of the Ceina,
I .Meantime Russian leeuforiemcnts aio
)Kliig thrown into Rumania rapidly,
Iterlln announces to-ihry that tho Rus.
slans In western Moldavia, on the Car.
patinnn iinni. line oe, ii recuioiccu.
This may be Intended as the llrst step In
another nnd stiouger Russian attempt to
cieate a diversion. Also it relc.u'cs more
Rumanian troops for the defence! of Vul
Uchla.
.Ncnrliiir Con In ii u .
Tim Russians and Rumanians ailvnuc.
lug south In tlio Diihtudja, on the Hlack;
Sea coast, utci now twenty-live miles
north of Constanii, This amie.irs to.
night fiom tho Rumanian announcement
i thnt Tasaul and Tatarpal.is have been
' 0i4Upled, On tile luntihi, fide nf thi
' PohrihlJ.i no progiess Is reported. The
Russian. German nix. Iliiigiriau Mate,
ment" Indicate that there has bo i re.
newed activity lu Ihe Pnbiudja, Tha
Rumanian stateiucut follows:
On the western Mnldavlan frontier
and to tha Iluxou Valley there huva
T-i.
I
