t.iUU iuu Win
.
.3
IHBBBBBBBMBsBlssSBBSsMsSfls
I TMi ii I ji. -Ii Ii I iMSTT ii i i i - - i i. i r i - - - 1 - r . i - i i i i .
" " " i
W rnhlu
Vol. 5.
Jasper, Indiana, Fuidy. November 24, 1916,
No. 12.
mm
S ATI It 1)41
HE
fgTH
At 1 o'clock p. in . at corner of 1.4th & Jackson streets
5
Administrator's Sale of Land and
Lots.
t
.
tBaOsBESiaMB3WB
jms i ma u
' AND LUNCH
UM
or
E GROCERY STORE
ROOM
Can help you Complete Your
THANKSGIVING DINNER
At a very little Cost. Always a fresh line of
Celery, Lettuce, Cranberries,
Oranges, Nuts of Different
Kinds, and a nice line oi
Candy etc.
i My service "fciust be to your approval and it will be. ,
rl n ji tjy ?i
yji v e nie a can ana convince yourseii,
JACOB P. SCHWENK
PROPRIETOR
JASPER, IS
DANA
W I
S-- CHAS. L- K
DR. REA'S SERUM
U. S. Govirnment Ucfnst No. 75
Made and Tested Under Government
Supervision
Tested and approved by the State of
Indiana at Purdue University. Indiana
Permit No.. 16.
100,000 Hogs in Indiana alone were vac
cinated last year with Dr. Uvea's Serum.
Sold to Veterinarians Only
Have your Veterinarian Order by Phone
or Wire from
AVIATOR CURD AND WIR.
DR. CHAS. L. REA
V 230 S. Pennsylvania St. INDIANAPOLIS, INft
Phones! Main 2755; New 804.
Jba following Veterinarians in thij county us a Dr. ReVi Sarum in their practice
The arrival ofthe aeroplane hu
given us a new industry, or rather
modification of an old one, namely,
that of manufacturing aviator cord
and aviator wire. The Boebling
"have devised a special kind of irire!
aviator cord to be used for itayi on!
aeroplanes. The cord consist of a
number of fine wires of great
strength stranded together. The
strength of the different sizes runi
approximately from 2,000 to 2,300
pounds. For steering gear a more
flexible cord is provided, composed
of sir strands of seven wire each,
with a center of either cotton qi
. rm I 3? A' -
wife, me aviator wire oincrs irom
aviator cord in that it consists of a
single wire instead of a number of
-wires twisted together. The vire
is made in IS sizes, with breaking
strength, that varies from 2,00i
pounds to 175. Scientific
rue snrPMM. PfcOCESSiWvivA scene: from 1 ieoMbo and julili
NHJCHi E.X.&VßMP&i ANOBEVER,L.Y BAYNE AfcE STAINED.'
jVVTth aTl tlie spendorandvsofemnpomp"-accörded the wealthy and' the nobleduring the" thirteenth century,
(ithefuneraUof'JuIiQt'Lis faithfully depicted in the pretentious screen production of "Romeo and Juliet,", in
which Francis X.s Bushman and Beverly Bayne are starred. With its greater scope for presenting everything on
a more extensive scale, the screen surpasses, in this instance, anything ever done ort the speaking stage. The
epndeur and impressiveness.of the .thirteenth century funeral more than replaces the eloquence and description
in Shakespeare's owiwordsvJThe silent drama has made, it possible to visualize the ceremonies in which
hundredsiofpei60n3participateLvith its lone: processionof church dignitaries, attendants, friends and rela-
irticipateL
tives.' Scores of horses-areruseriiint the. nrocession fand a.modern,countcroart. of an ancient Italian castle wac.
THE VANDAL
"I regard ths question (Prohibition) as an attack upon the fundamental principles of our Government."
Congressman Oscar W. Undtrwood of Alabama.
Right you are, Mr. Underwood. And the very same people who are now fighting the use $f liquor, on the
ground that It mlfht be dangerous to tht aomfwnlty, may eventually try totprohiblt a man from Kissing his wife
er hl iiter, n the theory that this might epreed germs among the community.
