THE ARIZONA BEPUJfflL
AN "INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
ICAN
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, NOVEMBER 24, 1916.
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 189
IT ONLY REMAINS TO
SELECT THE CASE AND
SUPREME COURT NEXT
Republican A. P. Leased
WASHINGTON. Nov
t-ii.e between Attorney General Greg
vry and counsel for important railway
systems of the country, looking to the
expedition to the supreme court of one!
i-f the suits attacking the constitu-1
tionulity of the Adamson aci, virtually'
were concluded today and the ques- j
tion of which shall be made the test I
rase was placed in the hands of de-
lartmcut of justice attorneys and le
,ai representatives from the railroads
It was said tonight that In the con- ""H"'"" deadlock concerning, choice
fercnecs here lo f irm of the aureeim m of" test citse of the Adamson law.
between the attorney general and the Tonight the situation was unchang
railroad lawyers was in substance do-, pd. but the lawyers gave a formal ex
rid ed upon, and that the only mutter pression of hope that an agreement
in be determined in Kansas Citv is could be announced tomorrow morning,
whether the suit of the Missouri, Okli-1 The injunction of the Atchison, To
homa and Gulf railroad decided yes- peka & Santa Fe was to have come up
terday against the government or lb. it before Judge Pollock on the Kansas
'f the Santa Fe, set for hearing to- a'de of the river this morning, but
morrow shall be made the test ca-e.
. snail he made the test .v
rrrns of the tentative understanding;
ere telegraphed bv the department I
were telegraphed by the department
to G. C. Todd, assistant to the attor
ney general in charge of nnti-tnisi
prosecutions, now aiding in handling
the Kansas City cases r.nd bv counsel
for the carriers to Walker D. Hincs,
ronnscl of the Santa Fe.
In substance the plans nrovide that
loth the department and the rail
roads acree in every way to expedite
::nd actively press the case o be de
termine,! upon in a final deois'on in
the sup-erne court and th::t during
the pendency of these suits, the gov
ernment will not begin r.nv prosrvti
t'ons of carriers for failure to a-iv
lie law. Purine its: rendeniy th" car
riers will Institute no more suit, nni
:it its determination Ixith parties to
the agreement will be bound hy th
suprems court e'eclFlon. the carriers
agrecine not to bring such nations if
tlie law is found con.-titiiiional an 1
1o drop all others. Neither part.- is
bound bv the agreement to refrain
from efforts to obtain legislation
which might change the Adarmon ::ct. hanta " r the Pennsylvania, pre-
It was explained tonight that f.ie i ferably the former,
vuestion of choosing a test case had ; Supporting -Mr. Hagerman were Car
been put in the hand" of trie attorneys ro" Todd, in charge of anti-trust suits
in Kansas City because of the lack of tender Attorney General Gregory, and
v.iffieicnt information to warrant an K. Marvin Underwood, also acting un
investiiznt'on. I der the attorney general.
A H. Harris of the New York Cen- For the railroads there were Walker
tral- F. I. Gowen and Frederick 1) i n- Hincs of New Y,jrk. in a general
M-Kenncy of the Pennsylvania. anl'wav representing the interests of all
'. M. Daw es eif the Ibirlingtnn. who ' American railreiads in the litigation;
have participated in the conference Gardiner Lathrop and Robert Otirilap
bere. approached the department r - f the Santa Fe; N. H. Loomis of the
e"okesmen for the railroads generallv. j Union Pacific, and ). M. Spencer of
Their authority now has been dd- ' ,,,e Chicago. Burlington Ai Quincy.
ate,i t .Mr. Mines, who I: a mem'ier
"i iix vu:mrcirtj nimiu'e1 o conn-
xe f-,r roads west of Chicaro and ,
1Hfrvi ttt nn Hn,,he eKo, .vhtet-e- I
ther is no do'ibf that whatever- he
agrees upon will be acceptable t-
them.
The loint congressional cnmmit'.e?
investigation of transportation began
; work in .earnest today with A. I
Thorn, ceainsel for the raihv..v ev- t
eutive s advisory committee, sr eakin; !
f'r te'o hours and a half on railroad !
"roblems of the day. He v til cemtinuo
tomorrow and mav not end his argj-l
ment before the end of the week. i
Mr. Thorn went jrto many phases i f
railroad conditions but dwelt parti a
larly on their ned for cred;t if th-v i
ire to exfnel and kee-p transporta'.io i
facilities ii" to the star.daid the public j
bmands. He said that In th? last 1 t j
e: ra the passage of railroad je-u-i-,
ties constituting transactions against)
the property had increased f'eim 4
pr cent to about 65 per cent of the
total se?uriited and predicted that fi- j
nanciers who would come before ihs.
ra.mmit.Aj. I., t .....l.e ..:.. . . .1 i
.i,,n ' 'v-u ' v,: i':i
...Vi. . t. ATu. " ' f. j'
lT', ""bLr' Mr' T" pa"'- re-1
hr , n . P V e . . 1 Passenger train No. 23. routhbound dictment- but rn"e'5 onl' 31 the
hree rer cent surplus ye-r!y fund to.r!Hh h?;.,,.on wUh ' ,,, " s' :,,ad. When the state rested, friends
lo., 'i",,n,t ? -ye" r' n1 u7'j freight train in the e. isten i sub r"s "f the v man agthered around
return is almost Impossible on rail- of KaI1S!1J, nu U ' Jr )S him and shook his hand.
"r. ?h 'rTM ",nd.'t"T Th" ""en killed were Jo.-e-h Harris! '- A. Hartley, head of a local detec
Tle I-ointed out that Ivirnoe not on'y ... ... . ,.i,',. ' i e! I live agencv. gave further details to-
has ceased to take Ameri'ap railway
stK'k. but is
tlii lrk l.nH,-..i.i
"f millions e( those in-e owned and,
.- - ;
, ,. ... . i ., '
dl.lh,
vast undeveloped f
... v.... , .. '
lds.
mi. si OI7-.;
from the Airri'"in
i on- unw illing to invest
"If government ownership " r-' l
".ads comes In this count! v ". said M-.
Thorn "It will .e he-rinse of tho nee 1
of iiiibMe rid't v hbh nnvate on
t.innct sutiplv." He added thrt In h:s
opinion one wy to reduce the ceis oi
bving is to give the railroads cap'ta! I
to n..i'n no ne.y terHtcrv.
"The decision eif fe Awi an 1 e - '
t'le has gone ff.th " aifl the wpn.-ss
In conclusion. "That the railroad-m "s'
tav nut of nolitics. They s'toijPI H'-e
to It 'hat the side that wants to at-t-iek
th reilroaiiM stav out of politi -a
too. I plcne'ed feir w non-partit-in reg
ulation of rallrone's that v.-oul 1 rive
e very gcarnntr e nosible t' nt "tie"
tlons rhnll hn deeld-d on t-bieoH e.f
busin'-r riTt teoo,ness and no on
principles ef pol'.tbal exedi"nc.-."
I
-n
PRESIDENT ILL
I WASHINGTON, Nov. 2?,. I'res- 1
1 ident Wilson cancelled several en- I
I gagements today and spent the af- !
ternoon and evening In his bedroom I
I because of a slight coif) caught sev- I
I eral days ago. Senator-elect (Jerry !
! of Rhode Island was among those
' who were to have seen him. If he
! Is better tomorrow, the usual Kri- I
! day cabinet meeting will be held. j
: D
Lansing Finally Shuts Up
Is Through With Germany
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
WASHINGTON, Nov. 23. Increasing
freepiency of attacks hy German sub
marines upon American vessels or oth
ers bearing American citizens, with the
consequent necessity of repeated In
quiry at Berlin for facta, has led to the
adoption of a policy of silence on the
part of the state department Officials
let It be known today, that such a
course was considered necessary be
cause most of the cases Investigated
showed no violation of the international
la ws.
ILjOpposing Counsel
Deadlocked As To
Which Case It Is
Republican A. P. Leased Wire j
KANSAS CITY, Nov. 23. Through- 1
! out today counsel for the federal gov-
' ernment and counsel for the railroad I
counsel oeing unable to ueciue on a
harmonious course of procedure, the
court postponed the case until to
morrow. '
The whole problem hinges on the
decision of Judgs Hook yesterday in
the case of the Missouri, Oklahoma & i
Gulf railroad, w hich is in the hands of I
a receiver. Frank Hagerman, retained
ernment in tho A rrw. ii luir' litti".itin
working in harmony with the receivers, j
represented in thjs Instance by Judge '
Hook, obtained a final decree holding
Ujat the law was invalid and consign
ing It on its merits directly to the su
preme court of the United States.
This case, Mr. Hagerman explained,
was, in the government's view, ample
as a test of the constitutionality of the
whole law.
With this view, attorneys for the
railroads took issue. Thev maintained
that an adequate case could be pre- !
sented to the highest court in the land j
only by including in an appeal the is-
sues involved by participation In liti-
-at inn of such great systems as the
tiuai was maue oe.tn by .Vr. Hag-j
. jhhvb m tt punusnen i
report that attorneys throughout the,
Country IliJ ft ttA,f im'niiilwl t. A. '
liium-iiirni wnen tneir injunction i
suits were called in the various r..,i,.i-,.i
courts.
...i-lhtr Sid" c?,uld 'nduce-d to ex- !
l l- u'irerea as to the
merits as test cases of the case of fh 1
-"issoun, Oklahoma i Gulf and t'.i.u of I
lne Nmta re.
THIS COLLI
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANSAS CITY. Nov. 23. Two mf:i
v ere hilled and more than a xcore 11"
:ers".n f tt-.em, it
was be -
l"eed. datigeroui-iy injured
ben the St. Lou,, and San KrVn r'-o
tonigi.t
- - t ' np,nnvi uiiij iii---:
ir.y n ,f i Y t. i.,,.. , pii
1 "' " . ;". i lie o;e-u-
pants eir the Kock Inland engine . !!0 i
a (oinsion w;u iney .ab e un l
" fains ?L
w,.tiier. t'eth .'-tT.,i I,. 1 1 u. ,...t.. i 1
. . f ... ,li,,r.,.
Of the &aNS'-ngers in the Frisco i
train, nearly all had narrow escapes,
it is nenevecl their injure s v.nuld no-
in any case prove fatal. The wre:k,a
!lroba.bly was eaused. Frisco officials!'"
! flee la reel, by the fiilire of the freight!
trains caew to stop on a siding for
the pussenger te. piiss.
GOLD MOVEMENT.
fPepublican A. P. Leated Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 2.'!. Tho net
Inward cold movement for the twelve
months ending with November 1. was j
estimated todav at il69.fiiiO.OaO. In a
department commerce statement. Total
II KILLED WHEN
lmrorts were SjW.aOo.iniO. and til".-1 Daniel desired not to go, it was do
0.KI, f 1 0 ' in gold was exported. Dm ing 1 clared, because she had some sewing
the previous year, the gold balance
wfu onlv ,126,aOO,000 and during the
year before that Imports were smaller
b.. $167,200,000 than exports.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY. N. J., Nov. 23.
recess of two weeks has been re-
With no less than ten Inquiries riend-
ing before the German foreign office,
Secretary Lansing declines even to I
talk about cabled reports from Berlin.
He said today he facts are being sent '
to President Wilson ax fast as thev
come in and the closest watch Is being
kept on all developments. In none of
the cases, however, is the Information
complete enough for definite action.
Mr. Lansing has read statements on
both sldex, but hus not yet had time to
check the opposing versions against
each other,
JUT COMMISSION TO RECESS
WHILE CAH IS TALKED 10
VILLA RETREATS FOLLOWING
FOUR ATTACKS ON CHIHUAHUA
BANDITS HOPES ARE DASHED
PRESIDENT'3 MESSAGE SHORT
I WASHINGTON, Nov.. 23. Pres- I
I ident Wilton's annual message to I
I eonqress, now in the hands of the j
I printer, contains about 2.0CO words I
! and is among the shortest docu- I
; ments of its kind on record. It i
I points ott that the reports of the !
I several government departments !
I wtll be miHe before eonqress sepa- '
I ratcly, and that therefore their de- I
I ta'ls are not discussed. I
j The presidenf emphasizes the I
i uncompleted leqislation cn rail- I
I roads suggested bv him at the 1
1 last session to meet the threatened !
! railroad strike, as the most press- I
i ing nrooiem racing congress. ne i
I then goes on to a general discus- I
i sion of otho' domestic problems. I
-n
nil ENQS;
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. JOSEPH, Mo.. Nov. 23. A new
case may be presented by the defense
when the trial of Prosecutor Oscar l.
McDaniel is resumed in the criminal
court here tomorrow afternoon. Judge
C. F. Strop, chief counsel for the de
fease, declared here late tonight, after
a conference with ither Hlterneys. that i
the defense probably would announce
itself ar. believinr the innocence of the
accuscJ man. wh.. is cr.arged with hav
irg mu.'.lered hia wife, was shown bil
fore the state closed its case today.
"If we decide to ent"r a defense, it
will not be hecatt.se we fel the state
has convicted McDaniel," he said, "but
t wii be to allay the public opinion
aroused by this prosecution
larlicr in the night the de
.
efense said
ecuter would be the
fir.t iin,... r.n,.,i i. eh,, afon-o
.'. :.... . ., V
Unexpectedly the .'tate closed its
Oscar'lX McDaniel.' "charged with the
murder of his wife. The at-nmincenw
n, I
...
Miss Aileen .Mos. sister of the slain
woman, had testified for less than half '
an hour
McDaniel's counsel will begin its de
fense temorroW. Univ n few witnesses
will be called to refute the suite's i
charge, according to the elefen.se. I
"We believed that the
psychological
t:r"a?." At-!
tim? had come to. close ot
! torney General liark'T. prosecuting,
i said tonight. No further information
' was forthcoming from the state's at
I torneys as to their reason for having
"ii'leel the testimony texjay.
"ii'ien tre iestimfay leiaav.
The accused man will" be the first
to present plans. McDaniel's attorneys j
pointed out that the state had sub
poenaed 125 witnesses, according to
the certification on the grand Jury In-
" - -
rl;tv !i a n-ittiouii finfi.iTiliif an Iti.oni
: ' '.... ... . . . ... .
visit oy Mrs. .M'lianiei to ins ornce last
i J"-" "Jr me iui w .a employing ue-
f'ii - husband, and
concerning tne trai followed t.y 1, noil.
! hounds from the McDaniel home and
back to it the mon:nig following the
(murder.
- ox. rircutt court clerk, loin of
t" hiB office by Mrs. MtDHiilel
c"nnPct'on with a political fight nf
ner nusoana. The witness quoted the
woman as saying that she "hoped
separation would not result." He then
testified that the couple was the "only
one in his set which did not have little
fusses and that Mrs. McDaniel fre
iuently had :aid she was the happiest
woman In the world."
Miss Moss testifier) that shortly be-
f"re the murder the prosecutor desired
n's wife to accrnnpany him to the home
of Mrs. Dagmar Krucker. Mrs. Mc-
to do, but McDaniel declared, she said,
"this is the time I am goiwg to assert
(Continue on I'age Two)
quested by the Mexican members of-
tha Mexican-American Joint commis
sion to givejthem an opportunity to lay
before Geni'al Carranza the proposals
formulated by the Americans for border
control.
The indications tonight were that the
request would be granted.
Alberto J. I'ani probably will be del
egateri by his colleagues to confer per
sonally with General Carranza and present-to
him a detailed statement of the
developments since Secretary of the
Interior Lane uresented the American
program as amiroved bv President Wil
(son. The Americans have earnestly
attempted to convince the Mexicuns
that they cannot -concur in a play
which they claim would involve the
humiliation of their country
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mex
ican commission, and Ignacio Bonlllas
probably will remain in the I'nlted
States until Mr. Bani returns or they
are officially Informed of the de facto
government's desires.
The Americans probably will spend
the recess at. their homes.
I liUULUU I IUII U!
DEFENSE BEGiNS
TRFW! filC
I IIL.III1U U UIU
HUH!;
t i nir.Tii.nr
AlAUWt
!
- : a ;
VILLA RETREATS. ;
I
(Republican A. P. Leated Wire!
EL PASO, Nov. 23. Francisco j .
Villa withdrew his surviving forces i '
in defeat from Chihuahua City at j
6:15 o'clock tonight, after a battle
of seven hours, during which he ; !
made fruitless attempts to carry
; (jeneral irevinos protecting works ,
' by assault.
u r;
This report was received from Chi
huahua by Curranza officiuls in Juarez
tonight, who added that government I
tro4s were actively pursuing the re- j
treating bandits. The telegraph eipera- I
,tor in Chihuahua said over the wire j
that the firing could Ht til be heard ;
clearly, but was becoming more and
more distant.
A small party of bandits had a skir
mish vith a Curranza outpost near
vi.niuanua ium evening, accoruing to'agcr and city commissioners are la
Juarez officials who added that the ' in their duties and are permitting
military authorities there were unde- I bootlegging, gambling and prostitution
cided at that time as to whether it
was only a roving band or an advance
peiint of Villa's columns.
Trevira Wounded.
KL PASO. Nov. 23. (Jeneral Trevino.
commanding the Carranza forces, was
wounded during the fighting In the
early afternoon while personally direct
ing the fighting from the vicinity of
Santa Rosa hill, Gepe-ral Franiisco
Gonuiles announced in Juarez tonight
after receiving a message from Chi
nuahua City. .
General irevino returned to the city
to have his wound, which was a scalp
would on the light side of his head,
dressed at the military hospital. With
a bandnge around bi he-aif lie returned
to his post at field heudiuarters and
continued the direction of the Carranza
forces on the firing line
At 10 o'clock tonight the military
operator in 1'bihuahlia telernnhri t
G,,n,,rsl linTuloi i ln,r., i,... ,..,
Carlos Ozuna, in command of the
Carranza cavalry, was pursuing the
ilia bandits south in the direction of
Mapula and the cavalry column was
reported to be ten miles south of Santa
Rosa.
estimate
nf the number of kille-d
anl wounded lias yet been made, it
J!t aii'iounced 'ver tne military wire.
i .m-au.se or me (larKness it was impos
sible to estimate the number of dead
on the battlefield, as the attention of
tho Carranza hospital corps and civil -
I ian helper was directed toward min-
v.,... mn,-
'H"'"B o the wants of tne wounded.
Relays of workers were working to-
n'Kht removing the wounded to the
military hospitals and private homi-s
in cninaunua City, where they are be
ing cared for by the women of the vol
unteer Red Cross organizations.
At dawn tomorrow a careful search
will be made of the battlefield for dead
Villa officers, it was announced in
Juarez tonight, w here it was said there
was a possibility that many of Villa's
commanders may have been killed by
tho heavy artillesy and rifle fire of
the Carranza forces.
Attacked Three Timet.
Juarez, Mex.. Nov. '23. Three times
today Jr'ranctHco lira, attacked the
first line trenches which defend Chi
huahua City and three times he was
repulsed, leaving his dead and wounded
on the plains outside of the city to the
south, according to military disiatches
received at the Comandancia militar
bere from the besieged city by General
Francisco Gonzales.
At 11 o'clock a. m. today (mountain
time) the high crowned hats of the
(Continued on Page Seven)
Young Man Alleged!
To Have Killed His
Mother Being Tried
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
UlFFAIl, N. y., Nov. 23. With
I he selection of the twe lth Juror this
afternoon the trial of John J&lwtrd
Teipcr on the charge of munieria
his tnother, began with District At
torney Guy U. Moore's presentation
of the state's case. He outlined the
circumstances through which he said
he expects to prove the guilt of the
accused man.
Motive for the crime would be es
tablished, the district attorney said,
through proof that Teiper was on the
verge of bankruptcy. On the death
of his mother, he would come under
tho terms of his fathers will, into the
rosv-essioii of more than $"M,Ono need
ed for the rehabilitation of his busi
ness. There had been family quarrels.
Mr. Moore said, over loans made the
prisoner from the estate left in trust
with Mrs. Agnes Teiper for the three
Teiper children.
By the first witness. Charles W.
Gelman, Mr. Moo'-e sought to establish
the location of the automobile vvhicn
Teiper had left stalled in the roid
ei'.rly in the afternoon of. January 10
last, i nil the- toi ring car in which
Mrs. Teiper, her son Frederick, and
daughter Grace Teiper, had driven
with John Edward Teiper from hi
Or-hnrd Park home after It o'clock
that night.
Dr. Frederick M. Boyle deputy com.
mlssioner of chnritier. and correction,
was cn the stand when court ad
journed. As the family physician, r
Wi8 at the scene of the murder earlv
on the mornir.g of January 31.
m-
TO CORECT ERRORS
SACREMENTO. Cal.. Nov. 23. I
Indications that steps had been j
taken to correct errors pointed !
out by Secretary of State Jordan, I
in tho official California election i
returns fron Orange and Yuba I
counties, made it appear probable I
lato today that no delay might be I
expected in the final certification I
I of the state's vote for presidential !
electors.
Only a few hour's work would !
be nocessary. it was said, to cor- j
rec'. the defective returns. I I
Semi-aff ir.ijll f biiinii . trnm Ran ' I
Frsncecn. Alameda and San Oieqo i
counties have still to arrive at the I
capital for official canvass. They I
are expected tomorrow. I
in OFFICIALS "
CENSURED BY
That the chief of ixdice. city man-
and allied crimes and vices in the city
as the allegation made in the, final
report of the grand jury submitted to
Judge Stanford yesterday afternoon.
No attempt has been made to che. k
crime in the city charges the report
adding that gambling, drunkenness
and disorder have apjieared so noto
rious that "It would seem to be im
possible that some knowledge of it
should not have reached the city offi
cials." Tnat the citizens and taxpayers have
a right to expect the city officers to
be vigilant and active in their dutie3
's the e.pinion of the men who havi
Investigated city affairs.
"City alairs ae not con.'u-teri on
a cheap or niggardly basis." mates tho
reKirt In advancing the right of good,
clean government.
The jury 'n its former report cen
sured the board of pardons and pa
roles for granting pardon to bootler
uer and again questions the board's
iip isdictlon in the matter.
Tuo true bills were returned and
as neither arrest was made last even
ing it was impossible to learn the
names of the men nor the particular
crimes charged. A number of other
ease' were considered, but were ig
nored. In dismissing the grand Jurv Judie
Stanford thanked the men for th"ir
-ervlces. )!e said that he realb.-d
what it meant for business men to
eive up their tlm for the small pay
they received end he understood an 1
anpre-iated what they had ileme In the
interest of good government. The in
vestigations, he said had been cora
llete and fair to all concerned.
The complete report, save the para
graph relating to the bills returned,
follows:
"To the Honorable Superior Court of
Maricopa County, State of Arizona.
' We. the Grand Jury duly sworn
and empanelled on the third day of
Octolier, 1918, by the Superior Court
of MaiU'Opn county, ami thereafter
re-convened on the 20th day of No
vember. 1016, respectfully submit the
following report of our proceedings as
such Grand jurv since the said 20th
lav of November. 1 S J C. which report)
Is our tinal report ana is supplement
al to our report heretofore submitted
to the Court:
"Thin Grand Jury lias examined the
records of the railway and express
companies in regard to receipts of
alcoholic liquors during the last two
months, but have not taken any action
on the information thus obtained, oth
er than to turn it over to the county
attorney tor further investigation.
"At the request of the Attorney
(k-neral. we have examined the appli
cations "f Gaiigler and Evans, con
victed bootleggers, for pardons, but
(Continued on Page Two)
TOD! REVOLTS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
VAj l'ASO. Nov. 23. Roosevelt has
started a revolution against I'resident
Wilson, according to a dispatch printed
in El Dcmocrata, the leading news
paper of Chihuahua City, which, how
ever, qualifies the report by printing
a question mark In the heading.
The dispatch, which appears in the
issue of the 22nd of this month, is
placed under a Mexii-o City date.. It
reads as follows:
"Alarming rumors have been circu
lating in this city which say that Col
onel Theodore Roosevelt heads a revo
lution that has broken out In several
states of the American union, with the
object of overthrowing President Wil
son, who, Roosevelt claims, authorized
various electoral frauds in order to tri
umph In the past election.
"Hlirh officials in this city, and some
of the diplomats, state with confidence!
that this rumor is a canard of the
American yellow press, which is hos
tile to Wilson. The American ambas
sador has already telegraphed to
Washington in order to inform himself
as to the truth of the report."
THE GRAND JURY
MEXICANS
AGAINST WILSON
RUSSIAN BATTLESHIP
SINKS, MANY OF CREW
REPORTED AS MISSING
World's Wheat
Crop Smaller
Than Last Year
. Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Nov. 23. Combined
wheat crops this year of fourteen of
the world's grain growing countries
are estimated at 72.4 per cent of last
year's production in a cablegram re
ceived at the department of agriculture
today from the International institute
of agriculture at Rome.
The aggregate production is placed
at 2,222,914,000 bushels, or 92.6 per cent
of the five-year average. The coun
tries are Spain, England and Wales,
Ireland, Norway, Netherlands, Ru
mania, the forty-eight governments of
European Russia, Switzerland, Canada,
the United States. India, Japan, Egypt
and Tunis.
A better snowing is made in other
grains. Nine countries report a rye
crop of 936,956,000 bushels. 94.4 per
cent of last year's crop, and 114.8 per
cent of the average. Fourteen give a
barley crop of 958.573,000 bushels, 90
per cent of the previous year and 102.6
per cent of the average. Oats produced
in twelve countries is put at 2.754.658,-
000 bushels, which is 83.2 per cent of .
the crop last year and 105.7 per cent
of the average. I
The w heat crop of Kngland and
Wales together is put at 82 per cent of j
last year's and 94.6 per cent of the
average and Italy's at 103.5 per cent
and i6 4. The barley crop in England !
and Wales is 115.2 per cent and 85.8 i
of the average; Italy's 91.5 and 100. j
The oats production of England and j
Wales is 100.7 per cent and 105.2 peri
cent; Italy's 82.9 and 17.5.
Corn production is g:ven as roiiows:
Italv. 64.6 per cent of last years
crop and 78.5 of the average; forty
eight governments of European Rus
sia, 91.7 per cent and 102 per cent;
Switzerland, 114.3 per cent and 139.1
per cent: Canada, 3.6 per cent and 37.3
per cent; Japan, 109.4 per cent and
1)9.8 per cent.
The corn crop in the United States
is estimated at 86.5 per cent of last
year's and 97.6 per cent of the five
year average.
o
( LiSZlj TRIAL PROGRESSES.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
" KED OAK. Iowa, Nov. 23. J. X.
Wilkerson. defendant in a $60,0u0 libel
suit brought by former State Senator
F. F. Jones, w ho alleges Wilkerson. a
detective, was responsible for circula
tion of rumors connecting Jones with
the murder of the Moore family at I
Villisca, Iowa, four years ago, uenieu
on the witness stand today he had
anv malice toward Jones. Asked by
an' attorney for Jones if the alleged
rumors had not been circulated mali
ciously Wilkerson said:
"I hold malice toward no human
soul."
The detective's testimony was chief
ly corroborative of testimony of prev
ious witnesses for the defense
Teutons Still Advance
(Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
The Teutonic allies in the Wallachian province are continuing their
advance against the Rumanians.
Semi-official advices from Berlin are that General von Falkenhayn s
army up to November 21 had taken 11,000 square kilometers of wheat soil
in Wallachia and had shut off the communication of all the Rumanian
troops west of Craiova.
Berlin records the reinforcement of the. Russians on tho eastern
Transylvanian border. In the Alt region Bucharest reports that the
Rumanians are holding their positions.'
Except in Macedonia, little fighting of moment is taking place. North
of Monastir the Germans and Bulgarians have received reinforcements and
are stubbornly resisting the allied troops. Dobromir and Paralovo have
fallen into the hands of the French and Serbs, according to Paris, while
west on Lake Presba the Italians have pusfled their lines forward. Berlin
asserts that to the east of Lake Ochrida the Italians have been forced to
retreat. . .. ,uftf
Petrograd announcea officially the loss recently off the Rumanian coast
in the Black sea of the dreadnaught Imperiatritsa Maria. The disaster
was due to an internal explosion. The loss of life amounted to about 215.
EMPEROR CHARLES
1 KAISER FEEL
R-puhlican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Nov. 23. The German
emperor has sent a message of sym
pathy to F.mperor Charles of Austria
on the death of F.mperor Francis Jo
seph, whose government, says Emperor
William, "will live in the history of the
monarchy as a period of blessing."
The message is further quoted in a
Reuter dispatch from Berlin, by way of
Amsterdam, as follows:
"We of the younger generation -were
accustomed to see in his venerable fig
ure, examples of the finest virtues of
rulers and truly kingly devotion to
duty. The German empire loses in him
a loyal ally. I personally lose a pater
nal and highly honored friend.
"God's inscrutable will has called him
away In the middle of the greatest
world war and has not permitted him
to see the result of the struggle and
the return of peace. May God give him
eternal rest and to you strength to bear
the burden which falls upon you at this
grave time."
Emperor Charles replied:
"I thank yon tor the sympathy which
you, dear friend, have shown and for
the genuine friendship, which you man
ifested toward the dead emperor, who
LOSS 0 FRANCIS
Republican A. P. Leasee Wire
PETROGRAD, Nev. 23. (via London,
Nov. 24.) Russia officially announces
the loss of the dreadnaught Impera
tritsa Maria. The statement issued to
night reads:
"The Russian dreadnaught Impera
tritaa Maria has been sunk by an inter
nal explosion. Two hundred of the
crew are missing."
Early in November a report was in
circulation that the Imperatritsa Maria
had gone to the bottom and that nearly
all of her crew had perished. Novem
ber 11 Berlin reported by wireless that
a Bulgarian' headquarters dispatched
announce!! that a fireman of the battle
ship had reached the Bulgarian coast
and confirmed the destruction of the?
dreadnaught, which it was stated, had
been sunk by a mine near Sulina or
heodossia Island, at the mouth of the
DanuDe
The Imperatritsa Maria displaced
22.GOO tons. Her officers and crew
numbered about 1,000 men.
Official Statement
LONDON, Nov. 24. The Russian
naval staff, says a Reuter dispatch
fpn. Tlntrnn.. U m .. t ..J . 1. ..11
ng gtatement: ' .
"At 6 o'clock on October 20, fire
broke out in the forward magazine of
the Imperatritsa Maria. An internal
explosion followed immediately and the
fire spread rapidly and reached the pe
trol tanks. The officers and crew
strove with the utmost bravery to lo
calize the effects of the explosion and
flood the magazines. The commander-
in-chief. Vice Admiral Koischak, went
aboard the vessel and took persona)
command of the operations,
"Shortly after 7 o'clock, however, the
vessel sank. The greater part of the
crew were saved. An officer and two
first-class substitute. Officers and
one hundred and forty-nine sailors are
missing. Sixty-four of the crew have
since died from the effects of theidr
burns.
. "The position of the ship, which lies
in shallow water, gives hope that it
may be reflected and completely re-
i paireo in a lew montns. The bride
is only one yard below water level."
A CLOSE RACE.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PITTSBURG, Nov. 23. With the re
count complete of the vote, with tha
exception of the soldier vote, cast in
the thirty-second congressional dis
trict showing a lead of 75 for Guy E.
Campbel. (Dem.), counsel for ex-Representative
A. J. Barchfield today filed
a petition n the common pleas court
asking for a re-tabulation figures
tram a number of preednts. The peti
tion alleged that Barchfield sustained
a loss of 53 votes by the court tak
ing the tally sheet figures instead of
the official return sheet. The case will
he heard tomorrow. Recount of the
vote cast in the thirtieth district
showed that SI. Clyde Kelly, progrr-s-ive-Democrat.
was elected over Rep
resentative W. H. Coleman. Rep., by
230 votes.
0
TRIP OF INSPECTION.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Nov. 23.
flri?adier General" George P. Striven,
chief of the United States signal corps,
arrived here today for an inspection
of corps units along the lower Rio
Grande border.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE. Nov. 23. "If It was
Judge Hook's intention to test the
constitutionality of the eight-hour
law, why didn't he declare It constitu
tional and place the burden of proof
upon the railroad managers, who want
to evade and avoid it, instead of com.
pelling the government to affirm the
constitutionality of the law?"
Thus did president Samuel Gompers
of the American Federation of Ijibor.
In addressing tho convention late to
day, lead up to a declaration that
brought the delegates to their feet
with shouts of approval that lasted
five minutes.
"We are going to act on the de
fensive." said Mr. Gompers, "but if a
fight Is to be made to take from th
men, women and children of our time
the pdvantnges they have abtained,
then labor's opponents had better look
out. We will resist to the uttermost."
Jurisdictional disputes took up most of
the time at both sessions of the con
vention today.
held you In suchrhtgh esteem. As your
and his loyalty to the alliance stood
firm as a rock in this world war. so
shall It remain for us."
GOMPERS ANGRY; RE
BLAMES JUDGE FOR
ADAMSON DECISION
