t
VOLUME TWENTY-FOUR.
ARDMORE, OKLAHOMA, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1916.
NUMBER 42.
ENTENTEfORCES IN GREECE -DEI
H1TE EVACUATION
ATHENS GOVERNMENT WARNED THAT UNLESS
KATHER1NA IS IMMEDIATELY EVACUATED BY THE
GREEK ROYAI ' " TROOPS, FORCE WILL BE USED.
Rumanians Advancing
9; Their Whole Front Have
Captured Several Tow "fteen Miles North of Tcherna-
vcda-Constanza Railroa. vs Bucharest Another Hos
pital Ship Victim of Mi. German- Submarine Ajl
Nurses Saved from the Br Paris Reports Further
Gains for Allies East of Ml r, while Italians Make
Further Progress West. Berliu Xeports Failure of British
to Reach German Positions in the Heavy Fighting North
of the Ancre Yesterday Petrograd Reports Russian-Progress
in Dobrudja Germans Cross Danube Large Ger
man Submarine Captured by British Naval Forces, Mem
bers of its Crew being Landed at an Italian Port by Mine
Sweeper.
ROUMANIANS BURN OIL WELLS RATHER THAN
FOE HAVE THEM
LET
London. Nov. 21. Greek
Royalist Troops Have Refused
to evacuate Katerina and the
commander of the entente
forces has warned the Athens
trovertiment that unless there is
an immediate evacuation, force
will be used, says an Athens
dispatch.
The British hospital ship
Dhaemer Castle, of G280 tons,
from Saloniki to Malta, with
wounded, has been mined or
torpedoed in the Aegean Sea,
it is officially announced. All
on board were saved.
The trawler Dolphin with
the crew of the Swedish steam
er Arthur, sunk by a German
submarine, has arrived at
Gothenburg, Sweden, accord
ing to a Reuter dispatch.
An Athens dispatch says
that all nurses of the Brittanic
were saved, as far as known.
Those' drowned, were stokers
and engineers.
Rumanians Capture Towns.
Buclia rest. Nov. 24. Tilt' Ruman
ians advancing along the en I Ire
front have captured several towns (if
loin miles north of Tcherna voca t'on
stanza railroad, it is officially an
nounced.
Aere unsuccessful last night both east
md west of Lake Pre.sba. on the.. Mace
donian front, it is ofllcially announced
The Unitarian troops have captured
entente trenches near Boiidaniitza.
Archduke Assumes Command.
Merlin, Nov. 21. Archduke Joseph
assumes coinmand of the Austrlans
on the eastern battle front, which was
formerly commanded by the new
Kmperor Charles.
Bringing Over Belgians.
The Hague. Nov. 24. Father John
ft. pevllle of Chicago, has started
for Belgium on his fourth trip to
bring out the old men, women and
children to rejoin relatives In Anieri
ca. Three hundred of these refugees
are ready to leave East and .AVest
Flanders.
Gain Ground Near Monaster.
Paris, Nov. 24. The ententes have
gained further ground east of Monas-
tir, while to the west the Italians
have reached Nljipole, says an official
announcement. A lively bombardment
In the Somine region last night near
SaillySalllsel is also announced.
French aviators have wrecked five
more hostile machines in forty aerial
engagements.
SUBSCRIPTION
TO HMD FIB
PROGRESSING
Russians Pushing Forward.
Petrograd, Nov. 24. Tl e Russian'
have begun an advance in Dobrudja.
reaching Lake Tashaul and crossing
Kartal river, sayi an official announce
ment. .
Teutont Crois the Danube.
llucliarest, Nov. 24. The Teutons
have attempted to cross the Daiiutx,
35 miles southwest of Guirgua, says
I he war office.
COMMITTEE IS MEETING WITH
SUCCESS AND THE ROAD WILL
BE BUILT ARDMORE'S GREAT
EST ASSET.
The work of securing subscribers
to the toll road stock Is progressing
favorably and if the committees meet
with the same continued encourage.
ment as they have In the past two
days, It will not tuke long to w ind the
matter up and get to work.
The most gratifying part of the com
mlttee work Is that, men of modest
holdings here are buying the stock so
that the road will be a popular one,
so far as its stockholders are con
cerned. There are still scores of men and
women, however, w ho are able to take
some of tills stock, who must do so
to assure the building of the road.
It. H. Tooner. who is secretary
treasurer of the toll nad out of Colo-
8M
t& '-v v
r x
. - i. 4
1' V -l
V. J
BURNING OIL WlLiN DOBfeUDJ)
GI
LOST IbIS
U. S. COTTON GROWERS SAID TO
HAVE LOST APPROXIMATELY
SEVEN AND HALF MILLION.
li m
CARRANCISTAS LOST ONE GEN
ERAL, TWO COLONELS AND ONE
HUNDRED MEN.
IMPROPER GRADING ATTACK IS RENEWED
Loss Attributed to Grades Not Being
Properly Accounted for in the Pri
mary Sales Farmers Urged to Be
come Familiar With Grades.
Washington, No. 24. The I'tilled
SL'ites ;iittoti growers lost a'ipro.xi
ni'itely seven ard one-half million
iloliais in 111),! and 1!U4. Iicanse the
grades ,vere not properly iccounted
lor in the pi 1, n. ii v iib s, according
an anuoiint cn i'id of tlie di'pai'tment
of igi iculture.
The departi.ieiit urges cotton grow
ers to familiarize tin uiselves with coi
ton grades.
TOADS STOP EPIDEMIC
One. of the objects of the German-1 many she must procure her supply
Austrlan-Hulgarlan drive into the
Doubrudja region of Houmania was
the gaining control of the oil wells
in that region, an important petrol
eum producing country. Oil is one of
the prime war necessities, and since
virtually none is produced in fler-
elsewhere. The Roumanians, of
course, recognize the vital importance,
of the oil wells and, retreating from
the enemy, have preferred firing
them,, as shown In the picture, to
relinquishing them to their adversaries.
G
TO
MORE CAPITAL
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LA-
BOR CONVENTION AT BALTI
MORE ADOPTS RESOLUTION.
Will Be Used to Eat Snales Which
Cause Cattle Epidemic.
Washington, 1). ('., Nov. 24. Com
mon toads are wanted by the gover
nor of Guam In an effort to eradi
cate an epidemic prevailing among
rattle in the Island possessions.
Toads are said to be fond of snails
and the snails are blamed for the
epidemic among cattle.
Villa Renewed Attack on Chihuahua
City at Nine O'clock This Morning,
According to Advices Reaching Jua
rez Many Go Over to Villa.
Chihuahua City, Nov. 24. One gen
eral, two colonels and one hundred
men nt' the Carancistas were killed
during the fighting with the Villislas
yesterday. Four hundred VIlliMas are
known to have been killed and left
on Hie lialtlelielil.
Attack Renewed Today.
Kl I'aso, Tex., Nov. 24. Villa re
newed his attack on Chihuahua at A
o'clock tltis morning, according to ad
vices reaching Juarez.
Troops Join Villlstas.
Kl i'aso, Tex., Nov. 24. Richard
Wisbruu, an American, who arrived
l ire today from Chihuahua City, says
one t.liousand Carranza troops sent
( tit Wednesday by Trevlno went over
to Villa without the firing of a shot.
S 1 , T THE INVENTOR
EOT HIST. DED TODAY
THRUM
I IIIU lllUlllllllUi
COUNSEL FOR RAILROADS TELL
CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE
MORE MONEY NEEDED.
HIGH LIVING T00GR0WING COMMERCE
Appointment of Federal Commission Quaker of Billion Will Be Needed to
to Investigate Whole Question of Refund Maturing Indebtedness
High Living Cost Also Asked by I Says Federal Regulation Should
Convention News Print Hearing. Be the Present System.
Haltimore, lid., Nov. 24 A rigid
congressional investigation of the
holding of foodstuffs and coal "for
JAKE SHARP SHOOTS FLOYD
FREDERICK WITH FATAL RE
SULTS. FAMILY TROUBLES IS
ALLEGED CAUSE.
About 11 o'clock this morning Jake
Sharp walked. Into the Whlttlngton
building on east Main street where
Floyd Frederick, an electrical work
er was putting up some wiring and
without a word drew a pistol and
shot Frederick four times any one of
which would have proven fatal. The
shots took effect in the forehead. In
the throat and through the - right
breast, and under the elft shoulder
blade penetrating the body. Sharp,
aner ine snooting started west on
Main street toward the county Jail,
when he met officer Sigler and sur-
British Held Back.
Merlin, Not-. 24. The Hritish wereirado Springs, Is in the city looking
unable to reach the German positions over the oil fields, and he said tlili
In the heavy fighting north of the morning: "Our toll road was only
Ancre yesterday, the Var office says, opened in August at the end of the
fhe Austro-Gernian troops have cap- .season. It cost $2."i2.iM"l for eighteen
Hired Orsova and Turnu on the Dan-'miles, but It cleared llu.uuu over ac
nbe. jlual expenses for the first fiir weeks.
We look for big returns during the
German Submarine Captured. , full season next year and there is no
Milan. Nov. 24. British naval for-! stork 'or ' We had as high as
-es reren'ly raptured a large German 1 117 rars a day on the road."
submarine, according to Corriere Del- The road leads up Pike's Peak and
la Serra. which adds that a British; Is a popular stock coniDanv. Thev
mine sweeper landed thirteen sailors ( expect it to pay for Itself in three or!
and twt officers of the submarine at jfour years, and has a fifteen year fran- 'Celebrated Engineer Here Looking
an Italian port. 'chise from the government, which w ill j Question With Many.
'purrhase the road on an annraised ' "There is not one chance in fifty"
Bulgarian Successes Reported. ; value at the end f that period.
Sofia. Nov. 24. Hostile attacks I There should In no hesltancv on
-Lnsrmnsn.- -u- -n . - - , n 'n part of Ardmor? ritizens
of them have In the past two dyi
gone to the ("hav'iiber of Commerce
and subscribed. L-t everybody do t int
and not wait on the committees. I;
will accclenie the actual beginning
.of ronstructlon.
Washington, I). ('., Nov. 21. The
railroads of the I'nited States will
need a billion and a ouarter addition-
the purpose of raising prices above ' capital In the next ten or twelve I r''n',",ed , his pistol and stated that
normal rates" is urged in a resolu-l 'ais to increase their facilities to j f" was 011 ,lls wav ,0 urrender to
tio.n adopted by the American Kedera-i handle the country's growing com- ""thorlties. Sharp and Frederick
tion of Labor today. ' n . rce, Alfred I). Thorn, Juunsel for wt're b'1"' In law, the latter mar-
The convention also asks the an- H e railway executives advisory com- ryinK ""' r"m,, "later. Sharp and
polntinent of a federal commission ' mittee, told the congressional rail
to investigate the whole question of road Investigating committee today,
high living cost. j in continuing his statement regard-
in,- railroad regulation.
INVENTOR OF AUTOMATIC SYS
TEM OF FIREARMS DIEO THIS
MORNING IN LONDON WAS
SEVENTY SIX.
his wife have been estranged for
some time and the circumstances It
Is alleged led up to the killing this
morning. When accosted by officer
About $2.10.0iiii, i additional
I Sigler Sharp stated that Frederick
Ijondon, Nov. 21. Sir Hiram Maxim,
the Inventor of the automatic system
of firearms, died here early this morning.
Ma-lin wits born In Sangertlille,
Maine, on February S, 1840. He as
the descendent of F.ngllsh Puritan'.
who were the early settlers in Ply
mouth CJiinty, Massachusetts.
The automatic gun was Invented In
1 SH4 and was immediately adopted by
tlie British government. In the same
year, Maxim invented tho heavier-
than-uir Hying machine, which raised
itself, the driver and one passenger
from the ground. This was nine yearn
before the Wright brothers created
their first practical aeroplane.
BANDITS SHOOT OFFICER.
Constable Cunningham of Marshall
Probably Fatally Shot.
Marshall, Tex, Nov. 24 Constable
I. 1). Cunningham ha.i n bullet hole
through his liirgs. Is in a critical con-
Hearlna on Paner
Washington, I). C. Nov. 21. The''"' required to refund maturing In-V"1"'" P "1K '""l' ""d ' ml- ditlon and probably will not recover
rederal trade commission fixes Dec. di Stedness. he added. I treating his sister and he could stand 'as the result of tin- attempted r-
12th for the hearing on the news1 Thorn said federal regulation should!" l,,,'r- further thai that he re-lrust last night of two men. who pre
print situation and has Invited manu-ri. lace the present system of au-', fus, l ' mal'! statement. Mrs. vlously had held up Hural Mail Car
factureis. jobbers and publishers to th.irity. which Is divided between tl shl,rP " standing close by Freder-. Her Hamilton, near Hallsvfllc, but
attend. st.de and the central eovernment. i"K '""''ling w nen me snooting who Mid when Hamilton said; "I'm
SURVEY FROM ARDMORE
ttiiesnntisnnsasiinn
n
a
a
WEATHER FORECAST
New Orleans. Ij.. Nov. 2i.
Tl:e weather forecast for
oMahoma for tonight Is fair
i:nd colder with temperature
of 2l to l's decrets: Saturday
fair with sj.'.wly risins temper
af:ro in western Oklahoma.
a
a
a
a
a
a a
aaaoaaaaaaaaanoK
, In Ms last
deiil Billy S'mdav
the rate f $ 1 each.
table business. Soul:
worth mole than ;.
said an Ardmore business man to
day "thin the Santa Fe will build
Manv 1 fr,,m l-lnria" through the oil fields
ml on lo Wichita Falls. Of cour.-e
mii h a line might be built sometime"
s..i! t!:e speaker, "but it Is not now
in the n liuis of the Santa Fe officials
to r oust run sui Ii a rr.ad.
"I am und-r the impression" run-
'in;nd tte business man. "that a
;si:rwy will be made out .f Ardmore
siiiemert with the itn, tn;lt kr,ev uin ,,p n ,
.-.uel souls at ( complete a the one is being made
Not a very prof- now out of Lindsay and the chances
should !e.;.re good that the line will be built
' ou' of this lily."
ABSTIANCE BY PRIESTS
I " - "-'"""'"ft.nnil lit ll wneii naiiiiiiou suiu.
joc-cured. Sharp is now in the county I fncle Sam's num."
jail awaiting the action of the county
I authorities.
aaannaaaaaaaaaa
Every Priest Ordained at Chicago! tX
Pledges 5 Years Abstinance. j Funeral of Sam Moritx. ,tt
( hirago. III.. Nov. 22 Kvery priest The funeral of Sam Morltz who a
on. ained In the Chicago archdiocese, j died yesterday afternoon will be con-, a
of the Human Catholic church, pled-; dm ted from the residence of his, a
ges total abstinance fer five years. I brother III law, Mike Kemp, .".IT K 'tt
arcirJing to Archbishop .Mundel. in. street. N W.. Sunday afternoon at it
If -he young priests keep ibe pledge 2 o'clock !y lr. Blatt of Oklahoma a
for fnf years, be said "they are 'it. with interment in Itose . Hill , a
lik- l to continue the practice for cemetery. a
the r-st of their liws " Myrtle I do- Knirhis o Pythias a
! will hae i harue of the funeral. Mrs. a
Moritz will iiTiw- from tier home in; 8
St. Louis t nicht over the Frisco. 8
ABOUT OUR WIRE SERVICE
Qurbec Catholic Church Burns.
Quebec, Nov. 21. Fire destroyed
the Li i:eou Itoman Catholic church
tod -y at an estimated los- of $mmi.-
,8
is already a smell i f f'liri.t , 8
the sir. declares the Nej8
ibe. It may be, '.at it mells 8
Nowr turn to tne wan: ads.
There
In as in
York til
o us more like moth balls.
The Haiiy Ardmorelte'g wire
s"rvie. ghes the world's
news through tin Associated
Pre-s live hours later than any
other publication tiiat Teaches
ine ci'y Vfen.iKin news cn
taimsl in T:ie Ar.lmoreite will
be fiujinl d ipiicatel In the
niormtig new -p.iM-rs on tlie
day tolio.v 'Hi:. This can b
proen b" anyone who desires
to make the comparison. The
Ardmoreite giei the news, not
lilstorv.
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
8
1888888888888888
