Tenth Year, Number 27
LIBERAL, SEWARD COUNTY, KANSAS, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24,1916
$1.50 Per Year
)
V
' RALLY AT CHRISTIAN CHURCH
The C. W. B. M. rally at the Chris
tian church last Sunday was a suc
cess in every way, from the time It
started with a workers' conference at
the home of Mrs. Robt. Hall Satur
day night to the rousing closing ser
vice at the church Sunday night. The
porkers were all at their best and
' each did full credit to the part as
signed her." Mrs. Ross, who may well
lie. called the mother of missions, as,
she has been closely allied with the
C. W- B. M. since its organization
over forty years ago, thrilled her
"bearers with her word description of
' the women's work both at home and
abroad. Her only son is mission
ary In Africa, consequently her heart
Is in the Dark Continent. But she Is
also deeply Interested in every de
partment of the church work. Those
who were privileged to attend this
rally will long remember the day and
the workers, and hope they may
come again.
A BIO HOG SALE
In this Issue you will find a large
, ad. telling 'of a sale of pure-bred
Duroc-Jersey swine, to be held at the
Palace Feed Barn on December 9, by
Lusk & Lusk. The Lusks held a sale
' of similar Stock In Liberal last year
and we have heard no complaint
from the farmers regarding heir
purchases. 'These hogs 'come from
stock that has taken blue ribbons at
the state fairs of Kansas, 'Oklahoma
' and Arkansas, besides numerous
s prizes at county fairs. Mr. Lusk In
forms us this will be even a better
bunch of porkers than the ones of
fered at last year's sale. Hog rais
Ing is becoming a more important ln
dustry In the Southwest every year
and It pays to have ' good stock to
. tart with. Look up the ad. and at
tend the sale it you are needing some
"bogs on the farm at this time.
WIDEAWAKE CHURCH TO DEDI-
CATE DEC, 8
, Bishop .Shepherd- of Wichita will
be present to dedicate the new Wide
awake church. Services at 11:00 a
m, 3 p. m. and 7:30 p. m. Several of
the ' former pastors are expected to
be present. Dinner will be served in
the basement.
CLOSE NEXT THURSDAY '
All the stores of Liberal, except
the drug stores, will close at 11
o'clock for the balance of the day
on Thanksgiving day.
The ladies of the Rebekah lodge
gave a box supper Friday evening at
the I. 0. O. F. hall. Quite a large
. crowd was in attendance and a great
-amount of fun was had while the
boxes were being auctioneeered by
Dr. W. O. Nelson. A neat sum was
realized from the sale of the boxes,
v which will go toward buying new
robes and equipment for the degree
staff of the order.
Mrs. W. H. Feather entertained in
. formally Monday afternoon in honor
of Mrs. Ross, one of the missionary
speakers who was here the first of
the week in the interest of the C. W.
B. M. The guests were the ladles of
the Christian church.
A Letter from President of Styleplus Clothes $17
He Tells How it is Possible ,
Chas. Summers & Sons .
Liberal, Kansas.. " . '
Dear Sirs : -
x You may ask how it is possible to maintain Styleplus Clothes at $17 in the
face of the conditions existing in the, clothing industry today? How is it
possible to maintain our all-wool and. all worsted policy, to maintain our
standard of make and trim, to supply the consumer with a guaranteed suit at $7
--a suit individualized by a true element of style, and showing by its splen
did finish the skilled workmanship that goes into it.
When we started to advertise Stylplus Clothes $17 some years ago, our
production oapacity was already large.' But as a result of" correct principle,
of proper advertising methods, and as a result of the satisfaction given to
the retail merchant and to the consumer, our volume steadily increased, until
last season we actually doubled our business.
This increased -volume has enabled us to multiply economies in every de
partment, purchasing, producing, selling, distributing. , The total of these
economies largely offsets the increased' costs of raw materials and labor.
Volume then is the reason we have been able to maintain the exceptional
quality in Styleplus Clothes at their original price, $17. Our customers are
helping us do it by increasing their, orders with us. New customers have come in
numbers and every customer has meant a higher efficiency for the Styleplus or
ganization. And the advent of Styleplus-merchandise into a merchant's store
invariably has meant greater sales efficiency for him, resulting again ins in
creased, business to .us--' 'a circle of success constantly growing.''
',, This national one-price idea fqr a suit and overcoat was developed by us.
We are 'proud of its success. We have found it the most satisfactory and eco
nomical way for us to operate. We want you to share the advantages going with'
this Styleplus success. Styleplus is good merchandise and we advertise it to
the American public at the one and invariable price $17. It is our desire-to
make each one of our distributors dominate the medium-price business of his
town. If you are trying to anqrease your volume, Styleplus Clothes $17 will
add a powerful stimulant to your sales.
Yours very truly,
Siegmund Sonneborn, -
. ' . ; , President.
UNVEILED W. O. W. MONUMENT
Quite a number of Liberal folks
drove out to the Independence ceme
tery, one mile south and one-half east
of Lorena, to witness the unveiling of .
the monument at the grave of John
Leach, who' died about a year ago,
and who was a member of the Wood
men of the World at the time of his
death. The unveiling ceremonies
were under the Joint auspices of the
Lorena and Liberal lodges. The
Woodmen's Circle, the ladies' aux
iliary of the order, also attended the
ceremony. G. E. Colby of Dodge
City, district depifty of the Woodmen,
was present and made tne unveiling
address. It is estimated that over
200 people were present at the exercises.
A HOME TALENT PLAY
A three-act comedy play, entitled
L"The Flower of the Mountain," will
be given by honii talent under the
auspices of the Loyal Order of Moose
lodge at the Majestic theatre on
Thanksgiving1 night. Ernest Wald-
I burn, who is directing the cast, comes
highly recommended and if the word
j of the performers is to be taken this
I is going to be one of the best treats
of the season. In tho cast will be
several of Liberal's best amateur per
formers, and tho affair promises to
be one that will be worth uttendlng.
Thore will also bo specialties be
tween ar"ts. Among those who are
taking part are: Ray - Kennedy,
Ruby Alexander, 'Gene Stouter, Har
old Sutton, Until Alexander, Dan
Murphy and Ernest Walburn. On
page 5 you will find a large ad, tell
ing about the play. Read it.
Union Thanksgiving Service . ,.
The LlberaV'' Ministerial Associa
tion at Its meeting Wednesday, No
vember 22nd, arranged for the An
nual Union Thanksgiving Service. It
will be held at 10:30 a. ra., - Thurs
day, November 30, In the Baptist
church. The choir of the Baptist
church will have charge of the
music.
A public offering will be received
at this service for the poor of Liber
al. The Indications are" that there
will be many In need before the win
ter is over. May we not have your
co-operation in making this service
and offering worthy of the day.
LIBERAL MINISTERIAL ASSN., j
D. G. MacLENNAN, Secretary.
Mrs. T. J. Layton returned Tues
day from Dodge City, where she was
called on account of the condition of
her younger sister, who had been se
verely burned about the head and
shoulders last week. The young lady
was improved at the time Mrs. Lay
ton left.
W. P. Wright was over in Stevens
county Tuesday looking after hits real
estate interests in that part of the
world.
Thanksgiving Carving Sets
and Silverware for the
Thanksgiving Table
Our attractive assortments of Sterling Silver
and silver plated tableware will solve the problem of
providing table pieces that will be most highly valued
and serve the longest time.
Knives, Forks, Spoons and odd pieces in most
artistic patterns and in plain patterns too, to meet
the requirements of every different taste.
O. J. Wilkins
the Jeweler
At Taylor's Drug Store. :
ACTED RATHER COLD
. . .
-' T. M": Schumacher, enairman of the
executive committee of the Rock Is
land railroad, whose headquarters
are in New York, and several other
"brass collars" and "bloated bond'
holders" of that road, made their of
ficial trip of inspection over this di
vision Sunday. ' They stopped here
about ten minutes but none of the
moguls was Interested enough to stop
eating for a few minutes and come out
to meet the local officials and give
the layout the once over. With such
lordly arrogance -on the part of the
higher-ups toward the subordinate
officers and employes, it is no wonder
the government has to step in occa
sionally and straighten out the dif
ficulties arising between the company
and the laboring men.
WHO IN THE H WANTS HUGHES
Some people were made to be soldiers,
The Irish were made to be cops;
Sauer kraut was made for the Ger
mans, Spaghetti was made for the wops;
Fish were made to drink water,
Bums were made to drink booze;
Banks were made to hold money
Money was made tor the Jews;
Everybody wants something,
But who in the h wants Hughes?
The foregoing was taken from an
assay of Bull Canyon copper from the
mines of Murray and Christian and
sent to A. Vorenberg, who had lost
heavily in the elections. Tucumcari
American.
.-HELD A BOX SUPPER .
Prof. Gordon G. Easterly, princi
pal of the Pleasant Valley school, was
In Liberal Saturday and called at the
office long enough to report excel
lent results from the box supper held
at his school house the night before.
Only nineteen boxes were offered for
.sale but they brought 72.60, so you
can figure the average price paid for
each box yourself. The evening was
spent In holding an old fashioned
spelling bee, contests, and other
amusements. The people living out
in the district are all live ones and
good times are the rule when they
get together.
' Miss Desta Crackel entertained a
number of her friends at at wienie
roast Friday night. The young folks
met at the Chas. Taylor home about
8 o'clock, from where they proceed
ed about a half-mile south of the
city where a very desirable location
for such an occasion was found. A
huge 'fire was built from the wood
brought from town by the boys. An
hour or more was spent roasting
wienies, toasting marshmallows and
feasting on the good things prepared
by the hostess, after which they
spent an hour or two In lively games.
Those who participated were: Mr.
and Mrs. Jas. Jones, Misses Mabel
Grainger, Zula Weldensaul, Corda
Buchanan, Mary Wilson, Dollle Hill,
Lottie Edwards and Louise. Wilson;
Messrs, Marion Hays, Ira Salley,
Chas. Buchanan, Laurel Batholomew,
Ernest Nickels, Herman Kimble and
Sam Woods.
I
Mrs. C. C- Morgan and her two
children . arrived Saturday, 'from
Chlckasha, Oklahoma, for an Indefin
ite visit at the home of her sister,
Mrs.,W. O. Nelson, r
v ' '; ".!',
J. R. Thierer has purchased the
peanut and popcorn stand on the
Summers corner from H. A. Morris
and will henceforth dish out these
delicacies to the public. John thinks
he will now, for the first time in his
life, be able to eat all the popcorn
he wants without throwing himself
into the hands of a receiver,' which
always seemedjlkely when he had to
pay five cents a sack for it. Mr. and
Mrs. Morris will leave in a few days
for an extended visit with friends and
relatives at their old home in Spring
Held,' Massachusetts.
The emperor of Austria, Francis
Josef, is dead again, and this time it
looks like he is deceased for some
time to come. That old man Jad the
proverbial nine lives' of a cat, his
death having been reported numer
ous times since the beginning ofthe
war, but each time it was denied and
the old fellow bobbed up In a short
time as warlike and hale as ever.
But ft looks like the jig is up with
him sure enough right now.
Edward Guldner of Canon City,
Colorado, who has been in Liberal
for the past several days, is a firm
believer in the good dirt of Seward
county. While here he closed deals
with Griffith & Baughmun for seven
quarters In the north part of the
county. Mr. Guldner Is going to put
up a modern set of improvements,
including an elevator to take care
of his own crops.
In this issue you will find the tab-
thA nrenfrlpnttal
I and gubernatorial election. It also
; gives the number of popular and elec
toral, votes cast in 1912. Much val
uable information is contained in
: these tables and It might pay you to
! save "this Issue for future reference.
Miss Mae Webster, who has been
quite ill during the past few weeks,
is considerably Improved at this time,
a fact her friends will be pleased to
note. . . . . '
FOR THESE WE RENDER THANKS
With thd ra'pWlly rising cosfT 0f
everything that goes Into the making
of a newspaper, prompt payment of
subscriptions is certainly appreciated
by every publisher. The following
have either brought or sent in pay
ments on subscription since our last
issue: Dr. Geo. S. Smith, E. J.
Stutsman, J. N. Evans, E. S. Irwin,
J,. E. George, 'Joe Stickler, L. A. Et
zold, E. F. Printz, all, of Liberal;
Harry Rupert, Choctaw, Oklahoma:
Plains State Bank, Plains, Kansas;
Miss Rose George, Columbia, Mis
souri; O. T. Wood, Topeka, Kansas.
The Democrat is loaded to the
guardB with a big bunch of good ads.
this week. With only two of us on
the Job it requires some "hitting the
ball" to take care of theBe ads. and
the Job work that comes In, but if
our luck holds out we hope to have
the most of it plowed through in a
day or two.
Sheriff Dobsnn made a business
trip to Wichita Wednesday.
WM. O. SLOAN IS DEAD
Wni. O. Sloan, a farme'r 'living
about 28 miles south of Liberal, died
Sunday of heart disease. He was sick
only about three days. Mr. Sloan
was a single roan about 54 years old.
He leaves two brothers and one sis
ter. The body was shipped Tuesday
to the home f of his sister in Overr
brook, .Kansas, or burUtl, .. ., ..
DONATION TO LIBRARY
The Woman's Club library has re
ceived a valuable donation from Mrs.
H. L. Glnns in the form of a complete
set of Dickens, I Scott, Thackery and
Irving's work. The presentation of
these sets of choice literature is a val
uable addition to the library and Is
highly appreciated by the ladies of
the club.
Griffith & Raughman report the
sales of something over 15 quarters
of land In Seward county during the
past ten days. This land was pur
chased by eight or nine different cus
tomers from all parts, and Is a cer
tain sign that Seward county lands
are rapidly growing in demand be
cause of their low prices and high
value. It's a hard proposition to bet
ter tho land propositions which our
local real estate men can offer you
here In Seward county.
Matt. Dunlap made a business trip
to Wichita Wednesday.
The
Professional
Man
What would the world do with
out the professional men? You
hardly think of them until you
need them. ,
We are glad to be of service to
the professional men to the ex
tent of our ability.
First National Bank
LIBERAL, KANSAS
Member of The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas Cit,y, and '
operating under 17. S. Government supervision and control.
'V r".
(
