ft ' m
) w AM
COMPARE THE LOCAL NEWS PRINTED BY "THE SUN" WITH OTHERS AND THEN DECIDE WHICH IS THE BEST NEWSPAPER W
, ym I fMmlS 'Hi l iK fll
dot int.. more home In Carbon, omit) and throughout ttnnlern FtHh (1 V I II IL riWSEf -ll II II II II 1E7 H
wd into morn I.uMiimi. hoiwcj. nfric!. Iibrarlw .ho,)li. Rd oilier ptarw vlSO J II II llirSlCTrivvUi1 (P&2S2LfJ HLIL ill IIL- TmW BH
,l,,r- ncmpiuww read than nn oilier one publication The rail. nSCS & ) (JtSbfr 92 $y& fr T , IjjfflM
f()4ct isa and conl camp nurrotindlng Prlct have an annual imyroll .r srs X r r' " of C-X y " " ? Bjlfl
' thin fiw million of dollar The real npendem herealK.ub. rend DOI fTIPAl I V D C" PI I Rl C A N , jfflM
Sun The merchant and other who patronltc It ndverthdng rULI I lUALLY, ntrUDLIMH. V?K
Hmr. get result that count H.,brl,.tln bookn . .pen,,, , llter, ,, nntercd as Second-Clan Matter. June 4 1911 at th, Po.tofflce at Price. Utah. Under th Act of March 3, 1879. JW
f4 4-4 4-4- VOLUME 2; NUMBER 2G EVERY FRIDAY N0VEM11CR 21, lUlfi ! Wfo jH
HUNDREDS OF CARS
BEHIND ON ORDERS
Jeans Money Consideration of Around Fifty
Thousand Dollars to Companies
of Carbon County.
COAL PRICES ADVANCED TO RETAILERS
llih I'ut I tompnti) ii lid the Fnl-
JfUat I'u el compnn, lb. two Inr- I
trt . hiI producing tonctrii In Ittitb,
real thl lime full twelve hundred (
in lichlnd tin- onlim tho have on .
ud Mid J i: Pi tilt, tnt( fun I
dne limp, ctor to The Hun Inxt Kalur '
it wbli. the nmnller conipuulpK "
me i lain or ten of them In Carbon ,
Mint) nro b. hind In the Mine ratio
"rli liuiiJreil nrn unmix fort' '
jhl thoiiKand toini figuring fort)
mm to the nr . At the mine the .
l in worth around two dollar u
on hoard the earn which hu ii '
n v alue at the mine to III pro-
term if . lime In flftj ihoumind dot .
rn.
Inirlng the month (or llilrt) day '
t t i hint Hutiirdii) ) the mllieM had
rk.d on mi m.rugc of but Hint? .
Ml four ilit) it week Th. prop. r-
n nr. Wlnli r Quartern Cl.iir Cr.ik, '
tali Mint ("untie Oat. und Hiiiiio-
ilp of I'tiih I'd. I tompiui), llliuk ,
wk, Hlnwulhii, Mohrlniid niul Pun. ,
r of the t'nlt. d Htutcn I'm I. K. nil- ,
rill of the Indipeud. lit Coal und ,
k. .ouipnti) Hlnndard Coul com. ,
in) nl Hliimhirdvlllc Curbon Fuel ,
unpaii) at Union and the Hprlng .
innu Coul eonipait) ( Uncle' JcMe ,
sight) nt Htorr. The American I'uil ,
impnn) nt Nmlin In Mild to be koIiir ,
t full lime
M Huun)nldi Imwivtr where nil ,
v raol goc into .oka unil Hpoilnl ,
im for the prodiut are ut inimt ,
mm iivnllable the mln. h ur. xirk ,
it dill nix iIiijh mid . iioukIi inlnerH ,
re hiird to obtiiln At the nth. r prop. ,
rllm the ly. ii are illniitlflnl with ,
tnillllnnii, und th. re not IivIiik . nnimli ,
trk for them, Hit) are In man) In ,
un in IiiuIiik the uitnpN lo b.tt.r ,
Ur rondltlotiK. If ponnlhle. III oth.i ,
ailo)nielit Man) lire koIiik to th.
Mini inliim of the ntut. llou.N.r,
Mln . nr nhortiiKe In not r.llo.d lo
lib b) the I). n.r and Itlo 1run.lt
ulin in. tal mln. m lire Ilk. I) lo Hiif.
r 'run link of coul
Tin I). n.r und Itlu (Iruinle U Ioiik
4 lirumln. h im to bvttirluK the cur
inillllmi but the renull Iiiih Ik ui iik
41e for more lliiiu t iiioiiIIim Of
if n n rnllliiK ntoik prnmlmil b) thu
tl railroad for wimu time .r ttvi
tin inm hue no fur nIiouii up In
to i iml flclilx of Carbon and Km. ry
vuiitv In the miuutlme thu .iv.r
! . xp. iiki x of the produiliiK torn.
iniiHiiri koIiik on at the mint h. An
Imii't lu the price of i.uil to .on
irmrn would not be out of phut, lu
U of all .timlllliiliH, mi) the op.
ut m
nii. cmim: 'iiiiu:aii:m:i in
SI.M'ltAITtlNK IN )MIN1
Kr.M.li:iti:u, W)o, Nov IK In
tittnm ure now Unit unUaa the
irtahmtl mIokv of wlnt. r w.utlur
iliitiH Miinewbut within u few cIiijh.
trlaln pp. tlun of W.nlern Wjomlnic
"ill It railiiK one of the won't coal
.mln m ttr known A.rordlnK to
'Prt It U InipoNidble for the Kum
Tir Coal lumpatiy to hire iiioimh
in 1 1 turn out nil th. ion! thul In
"wltril fr ()t llcr Thin fact In
nrif Hun with the n r whir.i no.
"fj" I hIiiiMukh of freight tarn on
t nl m 1'iulfle mid Ortk'ou Hhort
Une r miln, In the tuu.e or tho Ihr.nt
M faiuiuv It In wild Unit tho Kum
"rir Coal .ompniiy In five hunilrtil
'f I hind now niul nimble to fill
fdrri Unit .nun In o.ry da) No
"Jl"t s hnn In. n nollcltid. lu fntt,
Wit Hi pit mln r lli.t rullroud .!
nii'l t ir toul In no Krtnt Unit It It in en
ol u mull inarKin of tha output, tin
't tin pr.nuut labor condition, for
"ini rt In I .ouniimptlon
Tl'e Miuolii'lCemmer. r Coal .om
Mn which rucuiitly rtxumod opuru.
" Inn for the ulnar, ruportn that
now iun nlioul fort.flM men work.
( an I In unxloui to put on nil the
"n miiiiiihiu to fill thu urdtrn for
'! Mowmr, thenn mun are nut
Hal It Never beforu ha labor
"n i niiiriu un It In now Tho Ila
"onJiuii. f,ml 4nlj cokt compan),
wjukbuI of the cumpa or Diamond.
"'If Oakley and aioncoe, In ulm run
Wn IM mine full blaut with mun In
'""tint dimmid and ordera lomlnB
'"that lunnot m filled. Many townn
'"jo the line nru alroad) In cnaldor
,l'i ulstrtw. bucaune of inablllt) to git
'! .peclu nluio the present In
""mm weather act In
I" ald that tho ahorliKu of cur
tho I'nlon I'aclflu uyntem and othtr
vMemi all ovtr thu country l Jut to
'precedinted demands for Hum to
care of the ordinary truffle and
traffic Involved In moving thu fall
"I" In the agricultural dujtrlctn.
t"i n i n:i. toMcwi is or
iNri,n;Nci:u hi tiii: otiicuh
TT
A II Cow It i prenldent
and Rem ml mnnnKir of Clnh
I'm I .otnpiiti) at Halt Irfiki I'll),
Mi bin eompiin) will cotitlutie
to furnlnh ton I to the .lom.ntli
trad, at prion pnvitllliiK lnr.
Nun infer lIV The ftiih I'u.l
lompiiti) then r. tlncd tin prkt
of lump on board the enrn lit the
mllien, from : .5 to $2 (0, wllh
4 proportloiiitti r. tluttlonn lu nlln r
Kraden. Wi will (taillnile wll-
Iiik our coal at the entiibllnh.il
prltt, and linn will fe no
thiiiiHt ny Uowle We fe.l
Unit we tun nuppl) n InrKi part
of the domentk tniil. Our foul
In on the market to nil retalbm
It In hrtiidbtl b a InrKi niimb.r
of toul diiihrn I do not b. lit w
llitri In mi) ni.twlt) for rnlnlnic
Hit prltt
A I) Hi moll Kvturul nnle?
4 mnuiiKir for L'lah i'uel louipaii)
Klvm out the ponltlvt Htuti mt u
that hln compun) will not In-
ireane prlten to (ho r. lull, r at
the mill. k lie nun Unit the
prlten w tilth have lieeu lu vokii.
for Mini, time would remain, hln
ipiotiitlonn In Iiik 13 In a ton for
lump loal, $S IB for nut coal,
$1 00 n Ion for n.r.en nlnck and
nev.nl) .five .entn it ton for mine
wlat k The fuel In that III. re
lire iiltnutlher too mini) retail
rou I tli nit rn In Hull Ijik. Clt)
for the . xlnthiK IihiiI market for
coal.' Mild I'd rnou
-v, Tin re In ii total of tw.nl.
Ihr.e r.tall toul m. rtliilntn her.
mid wtru thin numb, r tut In two
ii (oal ixp.rt would n.e how It
would be ponnlhlc to opt rate mid
Klve num. nlKu of profit The
op.nitlliK . xp. line Would be re
due. d Kr.utl) ir the number or
r. tall toul m. r. hiititn were re.
tluutl or If th.) (timlilned to re
time running ixpvunen
In thin . vtnl th. r. would In
no r.nnou for utt. iiipllug lo In-
irtare the retail prlie of . oul
mid to ui) mind tin rn In no juntl.
fldillon whatev.r for mi Inir.nne
lu the prl.e of toul to the retail
mirchiutn ut the mine The Clnh
I'uel tompiiti) will nut Im reuxe
Ha prl.e of i oa'"
swi.irrh soiti: kpot is
'i hi: n.ii run. iomimnv
lu a ntiitenient Innut d b) I' A
Hunt, prenldent or tho Ktandard Coul
lompiui) op. ruling In Carbon tount),
the rulne lu the price of tonl nlxt)
renin u ton at the mine In explained
by that Kentl. man In u circular litter
mnt out lo the . unlomtm hint Mini
da) "1'rken (frio on board the cum
ut the mine) per ton of two thounand
poundn ure lump, 13 00, ntove, IS 76,
nut anil .Kg, fSSO, mid mlno iun,
13 00 Thin iimountM to n rulne nf
nlxt) tentn u ton. The prlie on our
produit for dtlh.r) In thu r. nt of the
t. rrltor) trlhutur) to our mlnu wilt he
lump, $3 SO, ntove, 13,25, nut and
egg, 3 00, ami mine run, 12 3S.
'The prli. a limited are mon than
juntlfled by print nl tondltlonn. The
price of ev.r thing lined lu the pro
iliiitltiii of coul him been Inert anlng
nth month for mun) month punt
We huve Im u (ompellid to ralne the
I prln we pa) the inlmrn for mining
the coul In inline the) were able to
obtain ii lilgh.r prim for their labor
among the metal mlnen nm! other lu
dlintrltH. Hvur) thing un. d In toul
mining ha doubled mid trlphd lu
coat, nteel rulln, toppt r trolle) wire,
mlno turn, wire cnblen, pnutlcally tv
er thing until lu mining Am on II
luntrntlon, we have pur. huntd an
tit itrlo locomotive for five thoilnand
dollarn which wun wild lesn than two
)earn ago for lwent)-nlx hundntl tlol
lam inch
t Km t ur hliortuu'.
Turthir nddlng to the Inir.un.d
tonl of operation hnn btun Ihe ex.
triimu car nhortagn A part of thin
tar Hhortage may bo uttrlbultd to tho
general tnr nhortago, but by far tho
greatir part of -tho nhortuge from
which wu are uf firing In Utah U the
result of groa dlncrlmlnatlon and
partiality on tho part or the Denver
and Itlo Orandt During the pant
few week w. have lurried on u care
ful Instigation or londltlonn In Colo
rado and wo rind the mine there,
nerved by thu name, railroad lhal
servia the Utah mine, were cloned
down two dayH during the month or
I (Continued on page eight)
IN Hiiar first
ItiilbtMiil niul (.ml Offl. lul Confirm
rhfe N.idH r storj
H Vppemon Mi prtKlth nt and
K n. rnl manager of the I nib d Htatet.
I'm I (timpnii) hnn .oiiflrmed in nub.
riant, to the Htlt ltkr Cltv n. wn
ibh rutin ntor flmt Klv n publlrlt) In
Th. Hun Innt week Hint Ctah mllw-ny,
n niibnldlary of the conrolltlnted fuel
lompanlen operating nt Mohrlaiid,
llln.k Hawk niul Hiawatha are nerb
uunl) considering the Inking over nnd
operation of the t'lnh rnllwa) from
Mnhrlnnd on through lo Cantle (late,
ov.r Hot.ller Hiimmlt ami to t'rovo
I'tnh rnllwn) ban a f t w lent than n
thoiiMind tutn or Itn own but no en
Rlnen or other rolling ntoik How
ever. If the road In taken over nnd op
cnitetl an now tniilemptaled thie
inlKlit be leaned until ntieh time an
ordem could be fllltd b) ml and In
romotlve work. At I'rovn traffic nr
rniiKemintn would Im made with the
Halt Irfikt Itoiite nnd with the Or.m
linen. Thin would d. prlve Ihe Den
ver and Itlo (trnrlde r .oimld.rable
trnfUi
App.rnon Iiiim Intel) bttn Html talk
ing the matter over with offlclnln of
Ihe t'nlt. d Hlnten HniettliiK Mining
nnd Iti fining eompaii), the rial own
cm or the Utah rnllwn) and Un fuel
corporation ovtr nouth He I now lu
California, bill noinethlng .1. finite In
txptcttd upon hln return to Utah
within the tnxt few dan All or
which remlnda tin Hint If It hiipptnn
It In gem mil) to be round In Th. Hun
firm
shin royis money
llntk Coal Mlmr I'oiind t'licoiixloun
l Kjiiiic II) 1'rtlRht (n w.
(It orgt (Ir. Kornkln, a (Ir.ek coul
mlmr of llalnn, vyt.njfound In n thing
it. million nt the ( 'l of the D. n
v.r anil Itlo (Irumli railroad jartln at
K)iine hint .Moiithi) forcnoont He wan
pltketl up b) a train rr. w tomliig uint
mid wiih taken to Help, r when hi
dhd during the afternoon Ihe man
had b. n nuv Iiik hln mom) for nt viral
montlin e ml wan on hln wu) to Hall
Ulke Clt), It In wild b) Ihone of the
tamp of llalnn, lo mut hln wife ami
baby who wire due there thin wttk
from the old ttiuntr)
Or. gornkln un beating hln wn)
from Helper II. fore he .11. d he told
that he wan In it ear when iitlaik.d
b) two men who robbed him or hln
Mitlugn of about two hundred ami fir
teen tlollurn, afttr which tho) threw
him from thu train He wn i nmhrd
and mangled moid horribly nnd might
have bt fii run ov.r b ntlll itnollnr
train lliiin tin one he wan thrown
from but for the llmel) panning of the
might ir.w thai plck.d him up
The Innlde pocket In will, h (Ir. g
ornliln tarried hln mono), nil In cur
r. in), hud bum tut open with it knife
lit fore dlng about 2 o'tlotk of the
afternoon at ll.lp.r. Or. gornkln guv.
what In thought to bo u fair d.nirlp.
tlou of the two men nnd upon thin tie
mrlplloli the nh.rlff and hln d.putlen
an well a the rullroud nptelal iigiut
nnd nfflit rn at Halt Uike City and
I'rovo are working A The Hun goe
lo pre toditv (I'rlilu)) there are no
developments
Tho 'ody of (lregornkln, who vvan
. about 13 cum old It In judgid, wan
. burled from n I'rlie tintbrtnklng
tuhllnhmiul entcrday afliruoou In
ti rim nt took plain nt City .tin. I. r
V.r) llttlo I known or tin man b)
hln b nl countrymen
IS TO HIGHER (OUST
Ailaiii.oii right-Hour Ijiw t'nciutl
liitlouul, Kt)H rciltrul Juilge.
4.4. TT -I- 4-
' KANHAH CITY. Mo Nov 22
The Adamntin t Ight-hour law
wu held unconntllutlonal htrt
lodii) h) Judge William C llwik
In the United Hlnten dintrlit 4
tourt. Judgu Hook dlrtit.d th. 4
4 re.tlv.rn of th. Mlnnourl, Oklu-
homii and (lulf. who Woiikht the 4
orlglnul uitlnn lu IhU lime to til- 4
Join tho law from going Into . f- 4
Ml, to un.lnl the gtivtrnmellt III 4
.xp. dltlng the inm to tin nu- 4
pi i mi lourt d the Cnlt.d Hlulen 4
ror final iliilnlnn und Inntruittd H
Hum through tin Ir iitlurnon to j
Invite Ihe rtprenu illative of v-
r railroad In Oil toimtr) to i
partlilpute lu the hearing In for.
4 the hlgh.nl court In the land
Thin wu rwiuented In the gov-
4" t mm. nl' motion In illnmlna the
Injunillon petition of thi rail-
road, the uv.rnmcut dinlrlng
to avoid "prolongiil, unneienntir)
muttered litigation through the
Inuring of lountlen nlmllar null
4- fll.d b tv id rail nintum In iv-
tr) rederul dintrlit In Ihe Cnlttd
4 Htute through vvhli h their linen
run.
It In expected thut the ultimate
dilution a to whither the law 4
will go Into trr.ct January Int
will In luindid down bt 'ore lhal 4-4-
tlmi. A trnnnirlpt or the pren-
ent lanu will bo Hied at Ihe nu-
prune inurt beroro It nionvin
Deiimber tth
t 4- 4 4
The excilleme or the work or our
local llebekah digrco tiam In be com
ing known In nearby iltlea, an lant
Friday's Helper Tlmi. We under
stand they havo been requetud to
confer the degree on a large cla at
I'rlce, Friday evening. Novembu
2th.
FRANCIS MARION LYMAN,
APOSTLE, PASSES AWAY
C KBuvS!mrWifli9t i.i
I'rautln Marlon I.) mini prenldi nt or
the tpiorum or Iw.lva upontle or the
Church or Jenun Chrlni or Uitttr-dii)
HiiIiiIh nnd who had been promlninl
In Un rellgloun, political and Indii.
trial hlitor) or I'tnh nlnce hln bo),
hood da)n, dltd ut hln homo In Halt
Idikc Clt) at I o'clock Innt rlaturda)
morning Hi death tame after an
Hint mm or but two da), I In tout raft
ed a told which dev.loptd Into mi ng
grnvntiil tane of pneumonia ut onio.
und though tier) thing ponntble wan
tliiue lu a lilt tl lea I wn for the patient,
ivtii hln powerful und rugg.d ph)
n(iu wan unable to w Illinium! the
rnvngiM of the muliid) nnd dentil gave
him rt II. r from hln nuffcrlng
The iliiilli or Apontle Ionian, who
wun next III line ror nuift nulon to the
prenldt ut) or Ihe Mormon church,
miirkn the punning tr on. r the mont
ntrlklng nnd nolnblu burnt It r or the
. hiirib and ntate Coming to t'lah
with un ox team tompiin) whtn a
bo) or nix he at on. e hi emtio ;ic
live lu church ami nlato affair and
rorgtd hi wu) to the front lu .very
Un. of mull Making
rounder of Sugar ImliMr).
He wiin a man who did thing, and
whin but ntlll u Imi) ho hud ntcomp
llnbetl much more than muu men lie-
compllnh In u lift time. While he gave
hi time, hln euirg) und great ublllt)
to the work of liH ihurih In,, ver)
II tit he found lime to utttiid to html.
nrnn und to make u mitten In mont of
III iiudeituklngn. He wu u plonter
In all uiid.rtaklng and wu one or the
orlglnul rounder or the nugar liiilun.
tr lu Utah, a well u u bulbil r of
flour mill, un ugrliulturlnt, un offlctr
of ntute mid iliureh and a Irad.r lu
politic or powir and uciompllnh
m. ntn.
Hi r. tord from u ntiiudpolnt or ue
tlvlt) mid nieompllnhmtiitn I re
, mnrkiibl. Horn un u froutlt mman,
, lie wiih a plunitr, teamtir und bull.
, whuiker ut the uge of tight, herd.
, man mid cowboy at eluvtn, plowing
, thu tracklen denirl an n Iwnlir and
, laptulii ut Un ugu of nlxtt.u, explur-
. Jug the wildn or Colorado ut tight. ill
. a neveiit) und it mlnnlumir) ut twent),
. with farming, nttendlng miIiooI, pre-
. nldlng over luiprovrmi nt unnochitlonn,
. building the log en bl n of the plone. r
P an Inildeiitn thrown lu betwitn He
P wiih miirrlid Ihr.t time and Hit re
. wire liorn to him mid hln wive twin
. n.oin thlldreii
Wun Horn In lllluoU. .
Apontle l,)liiuu who wan the . blent
nun or A m a nu M l) man and hln flmt
wlf., Uiulnu M Tanner, wa loni
Jitiiunrv IS, I840. un thu nlte or the
prenent town or Ootid Hope, MnDon
ough count), Illlnoln, thu being near
I) 77 vtarn of age nt hi diulh At the
tlmi of bin birth bin fumll) wu lionti
lenn, having left Mlnnourl with the
main bod) of the I.atter-du Balntn,
He wa Junt nix ear of agu when hln
niotlnr und rour thlldrin In u com
pan) In ihurw or hi gruiulfuthur,
John Tanner, began the trip airox
the plain with un ox nam to Halt
ljko Cltv HI rathir, who wan nn
npontlt, had gone on before with
renldent Urlgham Young The part)
ntnpped at "Winter Quartir and re
mained there until 1818, when the
ntarted on the rent of tho Journey to
Halt Uike Clt Though but n hoy, ho
drove nn ox team ncroa the plain
nnd arrived In Halt Lake Clt, Octobtr
1. ISIS
In 18(1 he accompanied hi father
1 and family to Han Bernardino, Cala ,
I where, aave for two or three trip
back to Utah, he remained until USB.
lie had gotten aome schooling at Win-
tir Quiiriim, hut ii)ot or hi mhool
da) were nptnt nt CmJoii Fain, wllh
n largo njrnmore tree nn a nchool
lioiino mid Jnme II Itnwllngn nn
teacher On III trip ncron the den.
ert to t'tiih he hud connldirnble ex
p. rlcnce In rrrlghllng und the bund
ling of home mid cattle He mnda
thu trip nlxtenn lime. While III Han
llernurdlun he nlno worked nt the
Joiner' trade.
lu Ihe nprlng of 1 157 he marled on
u mlnnlon to Kurope, but tho nrrlvnl
of Johnnou' urmy changed Ihe plan
mid ho wn n. nt built from Halt lukii
Clt), where ho had como with hi fil
th, r, to Hun llernnrdlno to aid In
winding up the uffulrn or the Mormon
colon) there It wu lu Hun lb rnur
illmi In IX5T that he mnrrl.d llhodii
Ann Ta)or During the following
winter he made two trip to Utah,
moving hi mid hi futhir'n famlllen
buck lo Halt l.uko Clt)
Htplori-M Cciili iinlal htuti'.
lu tint earl) part of IH6H he iiiiom.
pBiiled hi rather mid nthirn on an
xplorliig trip Into Colorado, tho pur
I) going a far n the Ileal und lllnhop
cronnlng of the Colorado river lu
the rail or UB9 he took charge or hln
fathtr'N farm In Duvla count) nnd wn
prenldent or thu Young Mcn'n l.lt.r
ur) nnno.latlon or Kiirmlngtoii. He
had b. en mi tld.r nlme 1KC0 mid lu
1800 he wun ordain. d u Mivent) lu
the nprlng or IkflO ho wu again culled
on a tnlnnlun to Kurope. He hail
moved hi family In llcuvir, where he
hud built hi own log cabin, the flmt
linumi he ever owned, mid In eompaii)
with hi fnthtr he ntiirl. d on hi ml,
niou He worked In the lindun und
Knn. x tourereiice und returned lu
Oitulur or 18S2 to Halt Ijlke Clt)
with u toiupati) nr tight hundred
trnveil
Apontle l mun III. n made hi home
nt Fillmore, where he rtnldul for
about fourteen 4 . urn. During thut
lima hu held u number of office und
wu u prominent figure In ull affair
of the count) He wu unnlntnnl a,
ntnaor or Internal rev time In UGH
he und hi father built n flour mill ut
Fillmore nnd ingaged extennlvely In
thu flour mid grain bunlntn. In 1807
he wim lommlnnloned u lleilteliuut
colonel or mllltlu und lu I Hill) hu rep.
reunited Millard county In the gen. nil
unMiinbly or the mate or Denertt.
Hu later repreneuttd that i utility lu
the territorial legislature In the nev.
intcenth, eighteenth twunt).Hecouil
und twent). third nennloiiH He wan
proneiutlng utlorne), nup.rlntendtnt
or nt hooln and tounty cb rk or Mil
lard count) at viilou umiM He wu
tuterented In mini) bimlnen venture
and trnnnactcd prat tit all) all the land
huninenM or the county It wn while
In Millard count) that he married III
nccond wire, Clara Caroline Culllnter
From the full or 1873 until tin full
or 187S he wu on nnothei mlnnitm In
Kurope, prenldlng over the Notting
ham nnd I-ondou conrerenie. He
mming, he wa prentnt ut the dedi
cation or the Ht fltorgo timphi mid
later wn appolntid to proilde over
thu Tooele fctnki He jook up hi
runldenie In Tooele where he main
tained It ror )enr. In ugunt, 1878,
he wan elected neoibi or Tooele
tount)
Htl llcCOIIICft ll KMlll,
1 Dt ceased wa chosen a member of
1 the quorum of tvvulve upontli of the
' Mormon church at the general con
ferenia held October 10, 1880. He
" wa ordained on October !7th HI
i firm nibwlon a an apontle va to the
' (loose Creek country In Caanla count),
(Concluded on pao tiro)
mm woman is f
ROBBED OF HER i
MiEY - hm
iNMn: or ni-soiir ihsathn up Wt M
WITH HIXHHOOTI H. m H
IlJfl
IVk lliimbrirk or Cuntlo Dale In Jail H vH
In Default of lloiid After tiring H H
I Ion ml Ovtr to thf Dlmrlet Court ml H
Hy Jiintl.ii I'mmI Hli.rirrn Office Wt' U
Trjlng to UMHtt tho Ollnr Mnn. B;'v H
Kek llnmbrlck I In the county Jail WSj H
nt I'rlce today In default or bond or HL H
Hve hundred tlollurn denianilcd by Blj
Juntlcc Front nl Helper )cntertlny nr- Ev UmU
terniMin to Inniire hi being prenent In lu H
dlntrlct coiut nt II nixt nennlon Ham KS
brick nnd nhotheriiimi nro ihnrged In Hb 1
tho complaint beroro Juntlce Front or HI H
Vlnttlng the ptaic or Mm. II A. (lib. IxV 'iH
non In tha went part or the railroad K hJmmU
town Innt Huntlnv evening belwreii lEkl
tho hour or 10 and 11 o'clock niul Bt 1
robbing the woman at the point or Ht1- Hfl
gun nf around flftj tlollurn. tnnJHfl
Mr. Olbnon niul the Inmate or her HRvlHI
place b.llove lfninbrlcU' lompanluti , KjiH
to have been 'lllll' Thompnon or HIhRLHH
Oreen Ulvcr I'ut till the offlecrn HtybHH
doubt nnd are working on another B ' HH
lend Hh. riff Henry an) llnmbrlck WL HH
wilt not dlvtitgn the name of the fel mjJ H
low who In nllrgtd to have been with Bu
him Hiitnla) night The nherlff. how- Kp HH
evtr, In nure or Killing hln man bt- J Wmk
rora mini) tin) have elnpn. .1 Unfix- jl
brick, whore home In nt Cantle Dale, Bt H
ha be. n lu and around Price for nev- HkJHH
rral dn) Intel) III p. ople live lit HmHH
Urn Hint r) count) neat HBtH
Mr. Olbnon wu formt rl) lu the HNH
r. ntaiirnnl bunlnen nt Price itml Inter SCHI
toniluil.il n rooming houne In the Hl '"Hfl
Wetter building Hhe tiiine from the IbiHH
rrnerviitlon nettlon lo Prlie Hhe left WtVtJjB
Prlcu iiboiit ii )tur ago ror Help, r, and wtl'mimmU
hu nine. I een running n plate of HnHH
iiiintlonnhli t Iun act. r thin with u flmaVH
niimln r of women about In r One or HwJJH
the women Inmate or the place wan BCI
prelt) badl) beaten up with it nix- HHRHH
nhonter b) one or Ihe two holdupn, ! HfcH
whoevir the) wen, Ihe time or the i WmmmU
lubber) f HHH
Ulte lunt lilghl llnmbrlck hail been HD
unable to give bond, although nev- i iflHHH
eral of hi niipponedl) good frltiuln 1 HJH
hud be. ti approached The Mil riff 11 BHI
office expect to noon huve the 'othti ; JJBkBH
man r ETHBB
(OMMissn mm
ihiiufe of iiiiHiniiiig Ctiuni) orficiiii BfE SjSji
I IvinI I'.-tlt nil Ittmil Aid. I Mf" HHJ
The count) cominltmloiicr nut r Hfl
Thiirndii), Nov tmlMJJJih, with Chulr jf Hf HHJ
man Hhnrp and ytiiiunlnnloiu r llryner bA VjVjl
prim ut CiininifnvUier Humllton wa ltMfW BjSjl
iibm nt The UMihtln or Hie nev. rat HHjt fHB
tount) mid pr. clnit nffli.rn for the psePtBjSjb
coming two enr vv.rt f Ixi d Cbrk, lIK jSjBjl
11000, ultorne) I&000, midltor, ?:' VVJ
14000, trtunurer, 1123,000 nnnennor, UmJ ''SjH
110,000. nhtrllf, 110,000, recorder. Hfci SVJ
110,000, nurve)or, 12000, eommln- (Wfi BjVjI
nlnner .nib, IS000. pr. .In. t Jim- MV BVa
tlicw, 11000, and pr. nlnil uoiintuble, iUV Hl
1800 Mont of Ihone eleettfil. a ban irW BjH
bten the tuntoni of the punt, will like. fijB 'VjBjH
ly file nurel) boiidn The premium , jK' VjHJ
como nut of tho touiii) t rumor). RBm,.jBjH
(I. org. (1 Limine) und Jumt I', IrSJInBjBjl
U Curr), lominlnnloiit m of Duchinne RjVJhcVjVjB
tount), und A W Jem en and C. II i WtwWJ
Kondull or the r.irent n. rvlie, met ; IKlZHjBjV
with 'the hoard III thu matt, r of the 1 fcHjBJ
Willow Cr.tk road It wan denlred to I , jSjBJ
know whetlur Carbon loiinty would I f )9jBj
unnlnt In neciirlug ft dernl aid, becaune 9 i SHJ
of the road' riiiiuliig through the red ! I ' jVJ
eral r. nerv. It wu ordir. .1 by the If HHJ
boaril thut one or the Carbon count) l .. 9U
commlnnlouer gn to Halt I-nke City fi " flBjB
und confer wllh the nlatn rouil com. i I i. HHjV
mlnnlon Duehenno touiii) will nrnd i VH
one of It commhudoiii r oil the name j u-i,jBjVj
mlnnlon. The ntute, It I until rntooil, J, JRVjBJ
would iltiiud it part or tho oxpenno III lit V-VJOJB
bulldliig tin roud s WjVJ
The txpt linen or the re. .lit el.utlou ftH
und iiumerou otli.r bill were punned I . MHjHJ
on, iifttr which th. board adjourned iJ'lVjBJ
mibjtut to the cull or Commlnnlouer ) Jf SHj
S.
COME INJOJHE CITY Lf
HenliliutM or III.) Niutli hlile .Now Full- SHJ
fletlgiil (HU. iim und 1iixHi)iii. HH
At a mietlng or the Price tit) touii. i "' HjB
ill bint Tumduy evening the petition ti HH
or tin owner or thu-ground known un If Wmm
William nddltluii lmmillati I) nouth ? mW
or the Denver iind III i Oriinde main B HH
line true k nndieum M the old court ' BH
houne proper!) NtuiH accepted, nnd I ' H
that property with Ih. action or the v HH
council Imm.dlutel) becomi n por- JHH
tlmi or the city or Prices l
Itenldent there hnVubeen working jf HH
ror annexation ror a coupla or year j i C rHJ
and are being longratulatrd on the IsV M
ueceioi of their tffortH. Propert) ' li HH
owners on Main ntreot are alno plea. I H,V HH
ed with the action of tho council n It j- Bt, mwl
will no doubt open up Bouth Ninth fi H' MH
rtreet to trnfflo that ban for a con. 'R&
vlderablo time beun thrown around to I, (MP BH
Houth Klglith. K ft aVjH
Itenldent or the newly annexed tor. I PCfc.
ritory are now going after the council I'ffiL 4IHl
to have the warchounea that aland rBST IflflU
partially on South Ninth street and vwjfr, WBBl
on Denver and Itlo aranda right or iEK afal
way moved bank to tho ildewulk line. I liBcfl'"IHB
WjhmWmmmmHbI iMM
