ar
fi . i.f za mp&w, .,. &.&M t , ,!
.,., 4 " 1
.
f ,ia- f; "i.-s?"sds, ",aa&j5aSrfjisiHaaais' '.ssstawssw iiraj., J
'TV wfHbSto HfflKEMn'KaEK,SiM",
srf
4r - v s
J 'f
ff.TSW WL awBOWESH'' fetJWfeirf.
4 fsEr ? ' - . ' . ?y
t.$
vssh '.- - rnvSa -
4 i-j- 1 "-1t. """ST' ' fc.
&.
.H. '3
! ' ' ' '" ' -i .
t -.. .. .. - -. -. .. t. . ... ... .. .v ... .".. "
. X TTXTTTTTTTTXTV ,fctrtt
Cuanto nn
f ' ,
Official Stock Paper of Northern 7
Arizona
Largest Weekly Circulation in "
Northern Arizona
A Modern Printery
CT??a PriK
.$..$... 4j. ..4.. 4.
4. .. . .;. 4. 4. a .;. .;. . . .;. 4. .1. 4. . 4.
JWWfciJNM
VOLUME XXXIV
FLAG STAFF, ARIZONA, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1916
NUMBER 6
DR.. PERGIVAL LOWELL LAID TO
LOWELL OBSERVATORY WILL BE A .
TOM CAMPBELL HAS MAJORITY
PF 55 VOTES ON
REST SUNDAY ON MARS HILL
T INSTITUTION IN
OFFICIAL COUNT
A i..1..' . . .it. .J r -..-
v iK&amamMskr w-v 4vm.&
1SS
JaHwj?
. , ?. " ifflHSBSaSBUSiBfflK8;"i. .i !f?5HL I 4VuiSiS.NtK::&CM8iJBe,,.-Si.
V, JlpjPi wwWlffiSTBMiKmVHBSfflBSiH'T.'m frrtfbKfmrfSBf -
IK1I
fviaaifcifc v . jev -wv rax. :jh.j -j , - wt"1" -
?4.t' "t. AS 7S71 "Tw-WTeAfiw ;, :'v tA'S' r-.3 Tfflt 1--.E..3-E. 1
mhmm . - . i T",i-- j "! " . ' .-
'T? ' . - ,f 1,-4,
mm$-?
I
n? u
4
f
i??
'
girt
The funeral service for Dr. Pcrcival
Lowell was held Sunday morning at
eleven o'clock in the Episcopal church
by Bishop J. W. Atwood, of Phoenix,
who was assited by a vested choir of
about twenty voices.
The church and casket were beauti
fully decorated with wreaths and
sprays of flowers from relatives and
friends. The grave on Mars Hill was
'also beautifully decorated with cut
flowers, wreaths, and sprays of flow
ers of many varieties over a back
ground of boughs of native cedar,
pine and pinon, trees to which he was
greatly attached and had studied with
deep interest.
After the services at the church the
funeral procession returned to Mars
Hill where the burial servico was read
by Bishop Atwood and the following
impressive tribute was paid by Father
Vabre to the departed man of science:
"Kind Friends:
"In the language of ancient Rome,
which he knew so well and delighted
in quoting," we may truly say of our
friend departed, he ascended 'Ad
astra per nspers,' to the stars through
bolts and bars. That classical motto
thoroughly epitomizes the span of his
fruitful life.
"To achieve the object of his ambi
tion and reach the ideal that he had
set before his mind, he spared him
self not, and found no labor too
difficult if only it brought him nearer
to his goal. While the special aim
selected for his strenuous efforts was
the study of the heavenly bodies, for
all that ho neglected not the develop
ment of those faculties and qualities
that go to make a noble character, a
great citizen, a profound scholar, a
faithful friend and a devoted husband
"Those aspects of his versatile and
rich nature will constitute the head
ings of that many interesting chap
ters in the coming biography of our
late friend.
"Dr. Lowell, of whom a great deal
has been written and of whom more
and 'more will be said as time goes
on, so striking and deep is the mark
left by his strong and fascinating
personality; Dr. Lowell was an en
ergetic and militant man, a prodigious
worker, and an extraordinary manipu
lator of ideas. His perspicacious in
tellect made him a finished scientist;
his retentive memory and discerning
mind, a richlyinformed and learned
scholar, and his ready and sound lit
erary taste trained in the best schools
of classical traditions, a renovator of
clearness in the art of scientific ex
position. ""
"Thus the brilliant demonstrator of
the enduring force of Attic purity in
style and diction was associated in
him with the forceful and lucid ex
ponent of abstruse problems and sci
entific theories.
"Those theories, verging on cer
tainties in his mind, because they
were the results of years spent by
him in arduous efforts and tireless in
vestigations, he did not hesitate to
promulgate and uphold before a world
of over-conservative and timid stu
dents and "scientists. The intensity
and earnestness, with which he ap
plied himself to the prosecution of
his favorite study and to tho further
ance of his views, were such as be
long only to an apostle.
"Of an apostle he had the -warm
.zeal, the communicable fire, the dis
arming frankness, the puzzling bold
ness and tho compelling force. Not
content with the apostleship of the
-pen, he had come to consider as wic
most effective means of propaganda
the eloquence of speech, of which he
was a master and which, of late years,
he so ably used as the preferred and
.almost jubilant expression of his in
satiable desire to make converts to
'his scientific tenets. -
"His great and heeded voice has
been reduced to silence at a time
when it was more than ever desirable
that it should be heard; because, as
in him the patriot and the scientist
-went hand in hand, tho country need
ed his teaching well nigh as much as
science. From the scrutiny of the
laws governing tho harmonious move
ment of the heavenly bodies, he had
deducted the kind of political and so
cial principles and conceptions best
calculated to insure the future of this
great country of ours.
"He was loath to brook any measure
which ho deemed detrimental to the
honor and grandeur of the nation.
Hence he felt a keen disappointment
at the rapid and untoward course
taken by the national events which
ho had most at heart. Political con
ditions both at home and abroad
seemed to put to a cruel test what he
deeply loved, and unflinchingly de
fended to the very moment when he
was suddenly stricken and forever
itaken away from the eager audiences
so often thrilled by the electrifying
sound of his eloquent voice. Truly
may I say that death seldom hit a
more shining mark that when it laid
low Dr. Percival Lowell.
I "His disappearance is a severe
,blow and an irretrievable loss to the
world of science, in which he moved
ns a leader, to the world of literature,
1 in which ho had few .peers, to this
nation, of which he held aloft tho
banner of enlightened and thorough
going citizenship, to this town of
' T71nn.aln(T wlilnli Virt itfinfln na Ilia linTYln
many years ago and which he has
mado known far and wide by the
wonderful discoveries in astronomy
that have now and then rewarded him
and his corps of able assistants for
their ceaseless peering into the skies
during our noted starry nights, to tho
legion of intimate and appreciative
friends, who always found in him a
most charming and hospitable host
and a most entertaining and accom
plished conversationalist, to the body
of young astronomers whom he had
fondly gathered around him, who have
been his able colaborers these many
years and who today feel'not unlike
the brave sailors abandoned on the
high seas without a compass by which
to steer their course, to the surviving
members of that noble American fam
ily of which he was the illustrious
and worthy scion and upon which his
life has shed in no mean degree new
and undying lustre, and above all his
demise is a severe blow and a bitter
loss to the bleeding heart of his be
loved and inconsolable wife, who idol
ized him in life and clings to him in
death.
"With you, Mrs. Lowell, we sin
cerely mourn the absence of your
late husband. To you goes beyond
measure our heartfelt sympathy in
this your hour of grief, sorrow and
bereavement.
"And now, Dear Friend, farewell!
Rest here near the monument of thy
Hfe'is love, in full view of those hills '
and mountains which were the end
less delight of thine eyes. We shall
not forget thee. We shall come as
humble pilgrims and ascend the shady
slopes of this hill in order to experi
ence the feeling of thy memory,
which will always be an inspiration to
us. Thy life's work teaches us how,
to uplift ourselves, we must now and
then put aside the1 temporal concerns
engrossing sordid mortals.
"After thy example we shall on this
hill learn to loathe the earth by con
templating the heavens. And thus
thou wilt not have lived in vain. Far
from it. In fact at this very moment
I cannot help turning my eyes toward
those glorious summits so much ad
mired by thee. They seem to me like
a prophetic symbol of thy destiny. In-
'decd these lofty peaks would not be
the majestic and impressive, land
marks they arc were it not for the
catastrophe which ages ago shook the
earth to its very foundations. And
just so I pejmit myself to see in the
dreadful calamity that has bent us
low with grief the beginning of the
future fame to which thy memory is
destined to tower.
"Again, Oh! friend, thy passing
brings to my mind the solemn and
sublime cry of the eloquent orator,
who, bidding a last adieu to Prance's
greatest king, exclaimed: 'God alone
js great.' Yes, when I recall thy
position in tho world, the unusual
gifts of body and mind that were
thine, thy apparent security against
an untimely death, and then, the ter
rible suddeness-with which thou wert
snatched away, I m fain to admit
and confess the inherent weakness of
man and tho exclusive greatness of
God. '
"So we confidently hope that tho
great and good God, Whose works
were the object of thy assiduous
study, Whoso heavens thou didst scan
these many years to their farthest
horizons through the powerful instru
ment installed at groat expense upon
the brow of Mars Hill upon thy kingly
munificence, has been as kind to thee
in death as He was kind to thee in
life.-
"Farcwcll! and may thy soul rest
in peace."
Burial was made nn the edge of , the
mesa near the dome of the great tele
scope and an appropriate tomb is soon
to be built ,ovcr tho grave.
Those attending tho funeral from
out of town were: Mr. and Mrs. W. L.
Putnam, of Boston, Mass. Mrs. Put
nam is a sister of the deceased. Mrs.
Daniel H. Kane and Miss Beryl Kane,
of Newport, R. I., sister and niece of
Mrs. Lowell and Dr. Von Kleinsmid,
president of the University of Ari-S
ona. The faculty of the Northern
The personal magnanimity of the death that he choose his successor,
late Dr. Lowell is reflected by the fact Should Mr. Putnam fail to appoint a
that tho Lowell Observatory was so "jwccraor the trusteeship will fall to
..untt: n.. 1 1 j 1.. mi u t. "le oldest male descendant in the
substantially endowed in his will that famy of who
the scientific research will continue serve or appoint somc onc to the
along tho same lines as followed here- place.
toforc. 1 It was Dr. Lowell's wish that Dr.
Mis. Constance S. Lowell and Har-V. M. Slipher become director of the
court Armory arc named as executors, institution at his decease with Mr. C.
but we understand Mr. Armory has 0. Lampland next succeeding,
waived his right as executor, which ' Although it was generally believed
leaves Mrs. Lowell as the sole ex- that the Lowell Observatory would be
ccutor. ' continued after the passing of Dr.
Mr. George Putnam, of Boston, was Iwcll, Flagstaff will be glad to know
named in the will as trustee for the that it is sure to be the home of that
Observatory and a provision made famous institution for all time to
that in case of his resignatjon or ' come.
SEWER BOND ELECTION
MAY BE CALLED SOON
While no definite nction was taken
by the town council qt their meeting
Mdnday night regarding the calling
of a sewer bond election, it is prob
able that the question of voting an
issue of about $75,000.00 will be
placed before the taxpayers of Flag
staff at an early date.
The petition for such an election,
which was presented to the council by
Ed. Whipple, carried about 100 names
of the most substantial tax-payers in
the town. Mr. Whipple said h could
have secured many more names but
as the proposition was meeting with
practically no opposition Tic thought
there would be no questionjibout the
outcome.
It is the intention of the council to close when he secured a heavy club,
ask for propositions from several rushed in and beat thq skunk to
bonding companies on handling the death. It was one of the largest
issue and avoid misunderstandings j skunks ever seen in that vicinity and
and illegal procedure. They also re-1 was not of the recognized hydropho
qucsted City Engineer Brooks to look 1 bia breed.
into the advisibility of connecting the ' Nothing but a misinformed kunk
new system With the sewer already in, would have the nerve to tackle two
and to arrive at the probable worth of Uncle Sam's veterans, and expect
of the old system. j to cme out on top. Mr. Pierce said
Flagstaff is forging ahead in-qli tjie only injury sustained was to his
lines and the sewer system should bo leg which was rather stiff next day
improved and enlarged to meet the from" having kicked the brute so
demand of the town. This is a con
dition that must be met sooner or
later and considered from a sanitary
point. of view will be a great benefit
to all the people.
TECHNICALITY BARS
. SAGINAW FROM COUNT
A slight oversight on the part of ;
the election board of Camp Ten Sagi-
naw precinct resulted in the vote from
that precinct not being counted at the
official canvass of the board Monday, has been agent at Winslow for the j who no doubt attempted to scratch for goods and men's, women's and child
In returning the tally list which past six years and has been long in I Hunt in tho manner indicated above, ren's furnishings. Onc of their branch
contained the result of the election in
that precinct the board placed the list
in the envelope containing the ballots
cast at the election. Under express
provrsion of the law the envelope con-1 made many warm friends during his I wa, to vote for Campbell. The same ' diately. The material will be Los An
taining the ballots cannot be opened residence here by the courteousvand n.i. ni,i t,ni tn tim tn- ,, ' celcs buff-brown nressed brick- and
by any county officer unless a contest
is filed by some candidate.
The vote in this precinct did not
materially change the standing of any
candidates, with the exception of Tom
.u, ..,,.,.-.. ...... .-...-. -.-.... .
naw precinct gave Governor Hunt a
majority of seventeen votes, deducting
this the official count gave Tom Camp
bell a majority' of eighty-one votes.
Should Governor Hunt elect to con
test the result he will, of course, bo
credited with Ihcse votes when the
ballot envelope is opened and the bal
lots counted.
While the official count of the board
of supervisors does not agree with the
returns published unofficially in The
Sun the week following the election,
the result is the same on all state and
county officers.
Carl Dickinson Recehes. Injury i
Carl Dickinson received a painfnl
injury last week that almost resulted
in the loss of an eye when a tire rim
flew off his machine and struck him
on the check. He was inflating a tire
and for some reason the lim was not
securely fastened, the tire bursted
and the rim flow back inflicting an
ugly wound over an irich in length.
It required several stitches to close
the wound, but Carl is out hustling
this week.
Arizona Normal school attended in a
body.
The pall bearers were Edward M.
Doe, V. M. Slipher, Cv O. Lampland,
E. C. Slipher, Francis D. Crable, John
Francis, George Babbitt, T. E. Pol
lock, R. H. H. Blome and T. A. Rior
dan. Many friends took the opportunity
to view the remains while they laid
in state last Saturday afternoon.
OLD SOLDIERS BATTLE
HYDROPHOBIA SKUNK
Walnut Canyon and the home of W.
H. Pierce was the scene of a battle
royal last Thursday night when a
large sskunk, apparently with the
rabies, started to take the measure of
Mr. Pierce and Mr. Thos. Aiken, a
war time comrade of Mr. Pierce.
The skunk aroused the people in tho
house when he attacked the dog and
both men rushed out with guns to
give battle. Both fired several shots
but the quarters were so close it was
impossible to get a fair shot at the
enraged animal. At one time during
the melee it took hold of Mr. Pierce's
leg and but for the heavy boot he
wore would have bitten him.
Mr. Pierce brought the fight to a
vigorously,
Mr. and Mrs. Aiken left Tuesday
for California after spending several
days with Mr. Pierce and his wife,
They will spend the winter there.
H. J. FOUTS WILL BE OUB
NEXT SANTA FE AGENT
H. J. Fouts has been appointed San-
ta Fe agent at Flagstaff to succeed
( O. H. John, who's resignation will
take place December 1st. Mr. Fouts
1 the Santa Fe service
While Flagstaff will welcome the
new agent, it is with regret that we
lose the services of Mr. John who has
efficient management -pf the local de-
pot. 1
Nothing but success will crown thet
I efforts of Mr.John in hi farming ,
venture in Texas as his keen foresight ,
.a uuauivaa uimny wuuiu Kuaiiimui:
success in almost any line of endeav-
Mr.'"Fouts' successor at Winslow
has not been named.
TOWN TAXES FOR YEAR 1916
ARE NOW DUE AND PAYABLE
A strenuous effort is being made by
tho town officers to have the taxpay
ers of Flagstaff pay taxes for the
year 191G before they become de
linquent, which will be after Decem
ber 21st.
The town is facing a deficit and
many needed improvements are being
held up as the result. Heretofore the
collection of the town taxes has been
made in a haphazard manner ' and
many people were not notified of them
coming due. Notice of the 1916 tax
has been mailed to all property own
ers and the assessment roll has been
written up and placed in the hands of
Chas. Murray, tax collector.
Taxes may be paid at the office of
Alex. A. Johnston, clerk and treasur
er, and if not paid on or before De
cember 21st, a penalty of 5 per cent
will be added.
Aged Resident Dies
Mathews McCarthy, an old time
harness maker, died at the county
hospital Tuesday of pneumonia and
was buried Thursday morning. Mr.
McCarthy was born ii Ireland 85
f years ago and has resided in Coconino
county some 35 years. He has many
friends among the old time residents
of this county.
The official count for the governor-
ship, with the. exception of Cochise
county, gives Tom Campbell a majo
rity of 55 votes over Governor Hunt.
The Cochise vote is included unoffi
cially in this count and the official re
turn will not change the present
standing.
All the papers-in the state, with the
exception of Dunbar's Weekly and the
Tcmpe News, have conceded the de
feat of Hunt and are strongly against
a contest of the election. In the face
of this and against the advise of the
state press it is reported that Gover
nor Hunt is preparing to contest the
result and has employed attorney Ives
to handle his case.
Just when and how the contest will
be instituted is not known at present
but if Governor Hunt opens the case
and calls for a recount on certain pre
cincts that he lost, Campbell, on the
other hand?" could file a cross com
plaint and demand a recount on pre
cincts that Hunt carried and still re
main the defendant in the contest
suit.
It is generally'concedcd that in a
state casting a small vote, as in Ari
zona, a majority of fifty votes elects
beyond a question of a doubt and it
is highly improper for the defeated
candidate to attempt to disfranchise
voters who marked their ballots in
good faith. In this case such a con
test is sure to rebound to the discredit
of the democratic party.
The smug assertion of Dunbar's
Weekly that Governor Hunt will suc
ceed himself and that "the corruptor
of public rights will get all is coming
to them," casts a" distasteful reflec
tion upon the supreme court of our
state which will, no doubt, decide upon
the legality of many ballots cast. The
republicans of the state are not an
xious over the outcome of the contest
as they firmly believe in the integrity
of the supreme judges, even though
they are solidly democratic.
The only question in the " contest
seems to be in regard to the marking
of the ballot. We are giving here
with the opinion of the state press,
'which, by-the-way, is usually the op-
iinion of the people, in the matter:
I "A report from Phoenix intimates
j that there might be a contest on the
ground that a voter who marked in
the square above the democratic or
republican ticket and then proceeded
to mark .for the candidate for govern
or on the opposing ticket. In such a
fase, of course, both candidates would
be effected as it is known, for in
stance, in this county, that many dem-
ocrats voted their party ticket with
I the exception of "ovcrnor and on the
Ltfirr hnn.l thnr wore rrmiWirans
Of course, a ballot thus marked indi-
cated the plain desire of a democrat
to vote his party ticket, except gov-1
ernor, nnd for that office his desire
thus attempted to scratch his republi-lwill
can ballot for Hunt.
if there is no other ground for a
contest except one which would dc-
priVe a number of voters in the state
irom the ncnt and nrivilefrG 01 votiner
for 0jther Hunt or Campbell, then it
j will be the wish of this paper that
whoever institutes such a contest will have two large show windows.
will fall." Douglas International. ""
"There have been no well-founded CONDUCTOR KING MEETS
charges of fraud brought in any pre- WITH SERIOUS ACCIDENT
cinct in the state. But it is conceded '
that a considerable number of ballots' Conductor George King, of 'Wins
may be invalidated should a recount low, had his left leg badly crushed
be ordered because of improper , Tuesday night while switchingin the
marking. It is a matter of common , Williams yards. He was riding on
knowledge that manv Democratic the side of the caboose and a car on
voters put their cross in the square '
assigned for a "straight" ticket and
.also put their cross in the Campbell
square. The courts have held that the IIe w&s rushed to the hospital in
intent of the voter must be con-J Los Angeles on No. 3 for treatment
served, and ballots thus marked arc where little hope of saving the limb
accepted as in favor of all candidates is entertained. Mrs. King left Wins
on the straight ticket excepting the low on No. 21 Tuesday night to be
one or more on another ticket whom
the voter has indicated at endorsing.
Eliminating such ballots from those
which may properly be invalidated, amputate the leg above the knee and
it is difficult to conceive a material ..that he is in a critical condition.
change in the official count from the'
forecast already published." Bisbee i Local Masons Take High Degree
Review. W. F. Allen and F, 0. Godell came
"Election contests brought upon in from Tucson Tuesday night to give
trivial irregularities never fail to dis- J a class on nine local masons thp
credit the complainant and besmirch . Scottish Rite work of the order. The
those who are active in bringing the initiation was started Tuesday night
contest. Illegal registration or illegal nnd completed Wednesday night H.
voting arc good and sufficient grounds , L. Lambert and W. M. Davidson, of
for election contests and should be Williams, came up and joined the
prosecuted to the fullest extent of the class of local men. The Scottish Rite
law. The prospective -defeated candi- is also called the 32nd degree. About
date who begins to cry qontcst before thirty members of the local Mason
the official canvass is either bjuffing lodge, including the class of, this
or a fool. There never was a state week, have taken the 32nd degree
election without a few irregularities . work.
and up to the time no defeated candi-
date for state office in Arizona has
cried contest fraud and irregularity.
Looks now a3 though a precedent was
about to be established." Arizona
Gazette.
"We have heard of something
worse, though, than the raising of a
contest fund. Foolish friends of the
governor have boasted openly in the
street, "We will win in the end, for
we have the courts with us." We
know that Governor Hunt himself and
all good citizens would deprecate talk
like this, criminal in itself and insult
ing to the courts. But the friends of
Mr. Campbell, if their antagonists
are unwilling to abide by the judg
ment of the people, arc willing to
trust their case to the courts in which
all good citizens should possess con
fidence." Arizona Republican.
"A dispatch from Phoenix announ
ces that Governor Hunt has retained
counsel and will fight the verdict of
the people. The governor wants a
recount. Were the republicans asking
for a recount there might be some ex
cuse for it, for the Hunt forces were
in complete control of the registration
and election machinery and threw out
hundreds of ballots where it was the
plain intention of the elector to vote
for Campbell. A recount will greatly
increase the majority of the people's
choice." Prescott Journal Miner.
"So far as Navajo county is con
cerned the republican county commit
tee will wplcome a recount, not only
on Mr. Hunt but all the .different can
didates, and if they want to go into
the matter of technicalities they will
be glad to take up that side with them
also. A candidate that has to peg his
hopes for success on sonuj little irre
gularity to throw out a precinst is not
interested in honest elections so much
as he is to get into ofilceand he usu
ally meets with very little success."
Winslow Mail.
BIKKER MAY BUILD NEW
BUSINESS BUILDING
Negotiations are under way be
tween A. W. Bikker, Jr., and the
Penney Company, of New York,
whereby Flagstaff may get a new
business building VijxSO and a new
business-firm handling a line of dry
goods.
The new building would be built on
the lot next to the building recently
purchased from Mr. Bikker by Mrs.
W. H. Power and the material .would
be Gallup white brick.
The Penney Company is a large
concern operating some hundred and
twenty-seven stores all over the coun-
,try,
They deal exclusively in dry
stores is now located in Winslow.
' The above deal was consummated
Thursday morning and Mr. Bikker is
, going ahead with the building imme-
be substantial enough to carry a
'second story which Mr. Bikker is
planning on adding at a later da(,e.
J. E. Kennedy, tlie local architect is
drawing" up the plans for the new
t ouihuiik ami win nave cnarce 01 us
construction. The front will be fin-
shed in nickle with leaded glass, and
the siding not being sufficiently in the
clear caught his left leg and crushed
it from the knee down., !
with her husban,d.
Later information from Los Angel
es states that it was necessary to
6V v i, ,
- t
At rt Vttt
A.v
vV'
'
s
y
v k
.s.xr w
