The Echo nu •
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
sons who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 47
SHIP BUILDING BOOM
GROWING EVERY WEEK
One Hundred Million Dollars' Worth of
Ships Under Construction in Ore
gon and Washington
The large number of ships now un
der construction on the Pacific coast is
being added to every week. Thou
sands of men have gone to work in the
•hip yards since the first of this year.
Dozens of new ship building companies
have been organized and the jnd is
not In sight. All this, of course, is
due to three facts: The destruction of
a large number of ships since the war
began, which is still going on, and
the withdrawal of ships of commerce
for war purposes, and the increased de
mand for ships to carry war materials.
The building of ships is not confined
to the west coast nor to the United
States. It is going on in every coun
try in the world. In the countries at
war and in those enjoying peaceful con
ditions. The following items relating
to the activity along the Pacific coast
is taken at random from the press dur
ing the past week:
Shipyards on the Columbia river are
building 20 ships, valued at $20,000,
--000. On the coast of Oregon and
Washington fifty-three ships are under
construction.
Parties representing Norwegian cap
ital are on the Pacific coast trying to
get a location to build a ship yard.
At Hoquiam a contract was let for a
two hundred thousand dollar schooner
to carry 1,200,000 feet of lumber.
The Guthrie ship building plant at
Seattle was last week awarded a con
tract for an 8,800 ton steel cargo ship.
Manager Peterson, of the Aberdeen,
Wash., ship yards, announced that he
had taken contracts for three more
(hips.
So it has gone on for the past eight
months and will go on until the war
ends. No one has ventured to express
an opinion on the ship building in
dustry after the war ends.
SCHOOL NOTES
The literary program of last Friday
proved to be one of the best the school
has ever given. There was a large
crowd of visitors The debate Friday
which was of especial interest was won
by the negative. All the musical
selections were good and the orchestral
numbers were in every instance encored.
The second of the community pro
grams will be given in the High school
auditorium Friday evening. Fyeryone
is asked to attend.
The 10th grade English class com
menced the study of Julius Caesar this
week after having completed the
Washington Farewell Address,
In the 11th grade the English de
partment is studying Macbeth.
Last Thursday evening a victrola
concert was given at the High school
building, A good crowd was in atten
dance and enjoyed the selections
offered. The proceeds realized will go
to buy more records to add to those
already obtained.
Mrs. Carter, the music teacher is
giving the story of a standard opera to
her pupils each Friday morning. From
now on her talks will be illustrated
with appropriate selections of the opera
on the victrola.
Henshaw-Lemon
M. Martin P. Henshaw, a G. N. en
gineer and Miss Rachel V. Lemon
were joined in wedlock at high noon
Wednesday, at the home of H. G.
Applegate, Rev. F. L. Moore, of the
Methodist church performed the cere
mony. The newly wedded couple left
on No. 1 for Seattle, from where they
will go to British Columbia. After an
absence of ten days or two weeks they
will return to Leavenworth to make
their future home. .
The couple was accompanied to the
train by a large number of friends who
gave them a rousing send oS accom
panied with showers of rice and an
old shoe or two.
TLhe %eax>enwortb Ecbo Js-g
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow ' ">•"»»"»*»»'' °&°<-
Increase in Bank Deposits
The controller of the currency called
for bank statements the past week, and
the press of the slate is generally print
ing the statements this week. A roost
encouraging increase is shown. Oar
own bank shows a very substantial in
crease in deposits over the last previous
statement made two months ago The
Columbia Valley bank of Wenatchee
shows the largest deposit of any bank
in Chelan county. Their deposit very
closely approximates a million dollars,
the first time in its history. All the
banks show an increase. This is due, no
doubt to payments for fruit, lumber,
erain and other farm products which
never before brought as good a price
and met with a more ready sale.
WASHINGTON D. C. NEWS
Washington. Nov. 22. (Special Cor
respondence) Reports received here
from Indiana indicate the cause for the
large Republican victory in that state
this year. Although the campaign of
1916 is just over, the Republicans are
already organizing for the next election
and are determined to sweep the state
in 1918.
Information received here from the
South shows that within the last year
120,000 colored people, chiefly labor
ers, have emigrated to Northern states.
Late in the recent campaign the De
partment of Justice gave out a state
ment conveying the impression that
Republican campaign managers were
responsible for the northward drift of
colored people and that the object
was the control of elections in Northern
states. The information now made
public is that these men have come
north because of the urgent demand for
men and the high wages paid in muni
tions plants, in mines, in railroad work,
and in general construction.
Considerable interest is manifest in
Washington over the election of a
woman to the House of Representatives.
Of course, the first congresswoman,
Miss Jeannette Rankin, will be the
center of a great deal of attention. She
is a suflragist, and, therefore, it may be
expected that she will be greatly sought
by a large number of suffragistb who
have ideas they wish incorporated into
legislation. Her office in the house
office building will undoubtly be one of
the busiest at the capitol.
It seems likely that the Supreme
Court will undergo an almost complete
change during the incumbency of
Woodrow Wilson in the White House.
Already he has appointed Justices
Mcßeynolds, Brandeis, and Clark.
Three Justices, White, McKenna, and
Homes, have passed the age of retire
ment. Moreover, Justice Day is in very
poor health and it is considered unlike
ly that he will continue on the Bench
four years longer. Out of nine members
of the Court, therefore, Woodrow
Wilson will probably name seven during
his eight years in the White House.
Last week the Department of Com
merce advertised tor ten men at 810
per day and expenses to investigate
opportunities for trade expansion in
foreign countries. Thus it practically
admits the unsoundness of our present
trade. We now have an excess of exj
ports over imports amounting to 53.500,
000,000 per year unprecedented in the
world. During the recent campaign,
the administration pointed to this as an
evidence of Democratic efficiency.
Republicans declared that it was merely
temporary and would end with the war.
Though the administration already has
many men working in foreign lands
seeking new markets, they want ten
more men at government expense to
find new markets and at a time when
our own people are having a hard time
buying our own products.
Thos. Nolan, the man who makes
your clothes, is about the busiest man
in town. He has four men employed
I and says that never since he came to
Leavenworth has he enjoyed greater
prosperity.
Leaven worth, Wash., Friday, November 24, 1916
ADAMSON LAW GOES
TO SUPREME COURT
for Final Decision—Hoped That final
Action May Be Had before
January Ist Next
The constitutionality of what is known
as the Adamson law had its first hearing
in Kansas City in the Federal District
Court before Judge Hook Wednesday.
The suit was brought by the Missouri,
Oklahoma & Gulf railroad company.
In rendering his decision holding the
law unconstitutional Judge Hook said
the proceeding was most unusual in
that he was asked to make his ruling
without giving the case due consider
ation so that the matter might be brot
before the United States Supreme Court
for final decision. Where it is pro
posed to advance the case so that
prompt consideration can be given and
a decision rendered before the first of
January next, the date when the law
wiil go into effect if declared con
stitutional.
Washington University Doings
by Special Correspondent
Dobie's victorious eleven returned
Tuesday morning from the Sooth after
defeating Berkeley by a score of 13 —3.
They were met at the depot in Seattle
by an enthusiastic bunch oi students
who had arisen at 5:30 iv order to wel
come the returning heroes. The boys
are now working hand in preparation for
the big return game at Washington an
Thanksgiving.
A new addition to the miiiary staff of
the University is Lieutenant Wm. D.
Frazer, who arrived Monday from Fort
Barry, San Francisco. He will be
Assistant Commandant of the University
of Washington Cadet Corps, and will
have charge of instruction in riSe shoot
ing, at which he is an expert.
Lieut. Frazer is a graduate of the
Michigan Agricultural College, and has
been stationed for some time at Fort
Barry as commanda' t of all government
equipment.
Quite a few students from the We
natchee valley are attending the uni
versity this year.
Helen Bennett of Cashmere is a Jun
ior and takes a prominent part in college
activities. She is particularly active in
social service work in connection with
the Y. W. C. A. She is a member of
the Alpha Phi sorcrity.
Wenatchee^sends Raymond Kaupp,
Marie Mooney, Victor Dahl, Philip
Dahl, Minnie Bernheimer, Helen
Ferryman, Carlos Zener, Fred Renner,
George Burr, Margaret Olds and
Louise Olds.
Raymond Kaupp is a Junior and a
member of the Delta Tau Delta frat
ernity.
Marie Mooney was pledged recently
to Delta Zeta sorority.
Victor and Philip Dahl are brothers
of Mrs. Loren Baptie of Casbmers and
Mrs. Frank Sorley of Wenatchee, for
merly of Leavenworth. They have
been pledged to the Beta Thera Pi
fraternity.
Helen Ferryman is a Chi Omega,
Carlos Zener a pledge of Theta Xi, and
Margaret and Louise Olds are members
of Alpha Chi Omega.
farm Loan Association
The new farm loan banking system,
established by congress the past sum
mer, is to be ready for operation about
the first of the year. Of course no bank
will be established here but an effort is
under way to form a loan association.
J. W. Elliott is taking an interest in
the matter and those who are interested
in question are advised to see him. He
has collected considerable data on the
plan of formation.
The attendance at the Ninth Nat- 1
ional Apple show at Spokane this week
broke all former attendance records.
This mast indicate prosperity among
the apple growers.
Grazing fees in National forest
to be Increased
District Forester George H. Cecil,
Portland, Oregon, announces that after
careful consideration the secretary of
agriculture has approved an increase in
the fees to be charged for grazing live
stock on the national forest ranges.
This increase will be made gradually
for the next three years, until the
charges reach a point equivalent to
two-thirds of the cha; made by
private owners for gra. stock on
their land.
Stock associations are being advised
of this decision order that statements
regarding the views of their members
may be submitted to the forester by
Feb. 1, in case they desire to discuss
the matter.
Investigation of rental values from
time to time, says Mr. Cecil, has re
vealed that the government charges for
grazing on the national forests are only
one-third of the market value of the
forage. Since timber and other re
sources of the national forests are sold
at their market value, there is an in
creasing demand that forage resources
should be disposed of in like manner.
The national forests were created for
the primary purpose of conserving the
timber and water supply. The grazing
use ot the ranges, which was found to
exist when active control of the forests
was begun, was treated as a secondary
matter and only a portion of the ad
ministrative cost of handling the forests
was asked as a grazing fee.
Since the national forest states share
in all the receipts from national forest
business to the extent of 25 per cent,
the revenue to these states will be ma
terially increased by this decision.
For the fiscal year ending June 30,
1916, the states of Oregon and Wash
ington received $32,820,65 as their
share of the grazing receipts from the
national forests within their borders.
Without considering increased receipts
from other forest resources this figure
would be doubled by the advance in
grazing rates.
SHORT NEWS NUGGETS
The final count of the Washington
vote gives Senator PoiDdexter 65,000
plurality in the late senatorial election.
Wenatchee is. not satisfied with its
present water supply. Why not come
up and tap the Icicle river. Nothing
better and purer.
Two Waterville banks have over a
millon dollars on deposit. This is large
ly due to the high price o f wheat,
which induced the farmers to part with
it promptly.
North Yakima fruit shippers have
brought a million dollars damage suit
against the Northern Pacific and the O.
R. and N. railroads for nut furnishine
cars to ship fruit.
The supreme court of New York has
held constitutional the law passed by
by the legislature preventing the at
tendance at moving pictures of child
ren under sixteen years of age.
Now comes the information that the
Blewett road is to receive $37,500 fed
eral road aid money. Against this
amount the state and county must put
a like amount to make the federal
road money available.
Special Meetings.
At the Methodist church Rev. A.
W. Luce is interesting good congrega
tions with his he.pful, searching ser
mons. Some are stepping out into a
more definite Christian life and will be
increasingly useful to the church, and
to their friends
Yon do not believe in hypocrisy,
and yet many a man in Leavenworth
says "I believe in the church," and
doei not even support it with his pre
sence. "Come with us and we will do
thee good, for the Lord has spoken
good concerning Israel." Meetings
every night, and both morning and
evening Sunday. Special music at all
services. F. L. Moore, Pastor.
Butter Wrappers at The Echo office
PACING NORTHWEST NEWS
Thirty Mile Tunnel being Seriously Con
sidered by Seattle—Single Tax
Gets Black Eye
SEATTLE. Nov 22—Seattle citi
zens, at a mass meeting held last week,
flatly repudiated tne statements of
Mayor Hi Gill regarding the eang of I.
W. W. which tried to invade Everett,
and battled with Everett citizens at the
dock two weeks ago. Mayor Gill's
utterances in which he tried to dace
blame on the people of Everett instead
of on the I. W. W. gang which was re
cruited and armed in Seattle for the
attemped invasion.
The meeting here constituted itself
into a law and Order league, and adopt
ed resolutions condemning the actions
and comments of Gill. Seattle busi
ness men have no disposition to trifle
with the I. W. W. agitators, and Pro
secuting Attorney Lundin has assisted
the Snohomish County authorities in
lodging charges of murder against
seventy-five of the men who were on
the invading excursion which killed
two citizens of Everett. The opposi
tion of the Law and Order committee
to Mayor Gill's attitude of condoning
the I. W. W. outrage, gave rise to a re
port that the business men would start
a movement to recall Gill. This the
law and order commitee has no inten
tion of doing, although a few members
who attended the first meeting expressed
a wish that the mayor could be removed
from office. Seattle has had about all
the recall agitation that is popular here,
and it is not likely that an effort to
oust the mayor will get any serious
results. But as a spokesman for the
city in regard to I. W. W. affairs he
has been pretty strongly repudiated.
The plan to build a thirty mile tun
nel under the Cascade mountains, con
necting Seattle with Eastern Washing
ton by rail with no heavy grades, has
been revived by General H. M. Chit
tenden, retired general of engineers,
U. S. Army, and is receiving serious
attention. The growth of the over sea
commerce of Puget Sound has been so
phenomenal since the war began, that
business men feel some steps should be
taken to insure a continuance of this
state, and perhaps the best way to
maintain the trade of the port would be
to give it better access to the pro
ductive lands which lie back of it.
General Chittenden's plan calls for a
tunnel from Skykomish to Leaven
worth, two points on the Great North
ern line, which would eliminate all
heavy mountain grades and permit
trains to speed from Seattle to the
Columbia River valley at sixty miles an
hour. Electricity would be used to
operate through the big tunnel.
The expense of the project is esti
mated at from forty to fifty millions,
and there is talk of attempting to
finance the plan with public credits, and
make the route a common user right of
way for any railroad wishing to use it.
Such a tunnel would eliminate all the
extra cost of hauling grain and lumber
and fruit and other products over the
Cascades, and would put Seattle on a
par with Portland in transportation costs
from the east side of the state
Returns from the recent election in
Oregon show that the attempt to put a
single tax amendment into effect there
was overwhelmingly beaten at the polls.
The proposition voted on in Oregon
called for a tax on land values only,
throughout the sta'.e, and provided also
a scheme of farm loans to be derived
from the products of the land tax.
The scheme was severely condemned
as calculated to confiscate one man's
property for the benefit of another, and
was beaten by a vote of more than two
to one. It was the most radical of the
proposals on the Oregon baliot this year.
The next summer campaign of the
I. W. W. agitators in this state, when
they get through making trouble in
Everett, will be in the Wenatchee valley,
according to statements of I. W. W.
leaders who are wintering here and lay
ing plans for their activities next year.
$1.50 Per Year
They expect to invade the valley with
gangs of itinerant workers, and control
the entire labor situation in the harvest
and orchards. This year they made
cansiderable trouble around Wenatchee,
and next year they think they will run
all independent workers out of the val
ley, and run the situation to suit them
selves.
STAIE INDUSTRIAL NEWS
Taconw contracts bread and sells it
at cost.
Fairfield farmers will plant 12,000
acres of peas next year.
Tacoma brick is being used in the
University of Washington's new $150,
--000 Home Economics building.
Tacoma will not sell'its electric power
to Seattle, claiming its own industries
in the coming year will need it all.
There is a large demand for places
in the legislature by persons wanting;
to take the rest cure on a good salary.
North Yakima —Work on the new
sugar factory is now well under way
and the railroads are putting in spur
tracks.
Centralia —Preliminary surveys have
been started for the proposed irrigation
district, including Ford's and Waunch's
prairies.
The railroads of the country are buy
ing lumber for thousands of box cars to
relieve the car shortage which is due
to abnormal conditions caused by the
war and closing of the Panama canal.
All employes of the Northern Pacific
Railway whose monthly wage is 8200
or less, excepting those working on a
contract basis, have received an increase
in wages ranging from 5 per cent to
30 per cent.
The St. Maries Gazette says: "We
fear that the Pittsfield, Mass., house
maids, who have organized a union
and demand 87 a week for a 10 hour
day will have to wait until congress
convenes.
Olympia—The law requiring state
officers to submit their expense esti
mates to the bureau of inspection was
passed two years ago. From the bu
reau the budget eoes to the state board
of finance, where it is passed upon. It
is then printed and a copy is mailed to
each member of the legislature.
All Drifting Back
After an absence of over two months
Bill Herder returned this week from
the west side of the mountains. He
says he has been building trails and do
ing assessment work on mining property
in the Cady pass country. He and
Harry Brown, of Wenatchee lake built
several miles of trail from Index to the
property of the Cady Pass Mining Co.
This is the property owned by Jay
Buttles and his brother Charles and
associates. He says the company has
what he considers one of the best pros
pects he has yet seen in the Cascade
mountains. It consists of an immense
body, fully uncovered and tracable for
great width and length along the ore
body. It consists of copper and silyer
with a considerable quantity of molyb
denite.
Second Community Program
The second of the series of com
munity programs will be given Friday
evening November 24 va the High
school auditorium commencing it 8
o'clock. Following is the program:
Piano Selection Miss Nicholas
Vocal Mrs. Camr
At Dawning Cadnaan
The Star Rogers
Violin Miss Snyder
Accompaniment Dr. Briggs
Reading Mr*. LeGros
Dr. Briggs and Miss Snyder
Violin Miss Snyder
Accompaniment Dr. Briggs
Vocal Mrs. Carter
The Wind Grant Schaefer
Birth of Morn Leoni
Farewell Franz
Tee Catholic Ladies gave a sapper
in the Sanitary market building yester
' day evening and were well patronized.
