The Caldwell Watchman
(OL.;30 (1(01,1'111) .1, L1,., I. 1'11111, 1 O I'lm iº? , 191,
BOOM J. M. PARKER
FOR CABINET JOB
FrSiENDS OF PROGRESSIVE VICE
PRESDENTIAL CANDIDATE
WOULD REWARD HIM.
BOOST FOR SECRETARYSH!P
"'',; is On the Supposed Retirement
-. Secretary of the Treasury and
Secretary Houston Succee
ing Him.
i '"' l tit ;1" i lll)1t ' o r tl :;' ,t\ l l t ait )'
-iio(;n, thereby having tihe O agrientl
iral poIr oi)etn. Uith d S.it ates Sena-t
ir ol,trt F. BIrous-ai d ',as ",h
htnd l hadl ('nterene( with Mr. i'ar
krt'. "It cannot be denied that a;tr
!.er did \\'ilson a world of good,'" .-aid
Mr. iBroussard. The plan of giving
M1r. Parker a public reception was
(oupled with this boost for the c(abi
tlietship.
Dr. Paul N. Cyr, campaign sran
rger for Sheriff Wade O. Martin, and
P'. J. Gainnia of Iberia parish were
in Lafourche parish, getting affllidavits
from voters to be used in contesting
She election of Judge Whit P. Martin
to Congress from the Third district.
In Precinct 1 of the Ninth ward of
t.afourche parish, five affidavits were
obtained from voters who asserted
under oath that they had voted the
straight Democratic ticket by stamp
ing the emblem. On the face of the
returns from this precinct, Wade O.
Martin received but one vote.
TLcal No. 115 of the Retail Clerks
Internatlonal Protective Association,
which recently was or*anized at
Baton Rouge, has started work to ob
tain shorter working hours for its
members. The clerks have drawn up
a petition which will be submitted to
the employers asking for a 6 o'clock
closing on week days, 8 o'clock Sat
urdays, except during the Christmas
holidays. The clerks also ask for
live holidays during the year, Christ
mas, New Year's Day, Fourth of July,
labor Day and Thanksgiving Day.
The police jury created Road Dis
trict No. 8 out of the whole of Grant
parish, and named the board of su
pervisors for the district, for ordering
an election on issuing $300,000 for
and ordered that the board meet at
the courthouse in Colfax November
20. A provision of 120,000 will be
made out of this issue for the con
struction of the Jefferson Highway.
The Union Sulphur Company has
filed its expected contest of the spe
ci(lt school tax election held on Sep
temnber 12 at Lake Charles, at which
a 4-mill ten-year tax was voted for
thi public schools. It alleges that
the special meeting of the board at
which the call for the election was
issued was illegally held, that the
election was not properly advertised,
and that numerous technical irreg
ularities occurred in the holding of it.
The committee appointed to ar
range for the creation of a drainage
district for the section east and south
of Monroe received a telegram from
the United States Department of Ag
riculture, saying that an engineer
had been detailed to make the neces
sary survey to fix the boundaries of
the district and that he would prob
ably begin work by the first of next
month.
Each of the forty-two parish schools
near Lake Charles have been provid
ed with a set which includes a tooth
fbrush, tonguedcleaner,- mouth 'wash
and tooth powder. For demonstra
iton purposes, oral hygiene is to be
given strict attention in the parish
schools and the children will be
taught the proper methods of caring
for their teeth.
As chairman of the state Democrat
ic central committee, Lee E. Thomas
of Shreveport is advocating agitation
for an amendment to the federal con
stitution providing for the direct elec
tion of president and vice president
by popular vote of the people them
selves, and the abolishment of the
electoral college system.
To Recruit Loulslarna Guard.
The louisiana National (;urdl
needs 700 enlisttments t, bring it 10
to the Aill "2.00 strength required of
it under the pIro isions mof t!', re(.' 'it
ftederal reserv act. 'The guart n:st
be' 2,0)0 strong by July 1.
\H itlh t1e Iri'etble which It, V a', u
u1lt(,s eof thli' gulard hait i i'. r e.g'
iehle'i.Vex' : tio fll w;ar ,''rent :t i ,1't
unllter' 1'1' ,Xi'itt'Inl 1lt f :O t ;,1'r11rt
W(' 5lan ith e.xton I ly', l'r J'1 itn 1 "r 1.
in," t j tll l, l .w 1.;I b, a t% of,'1 '-,
to, ill' ,sd to uild t! o n ,'w whIt 1 '
schools and a negro i Chool in flaton
Rouge. Tie election ' if th second
hic has been lI'ed. Ti 'e bond issue .
'te iue was declared illegal by'.
I'bo e perts because School DiiLtrict
suburbs of the city which already
Iwere comprised y anothII r i holt
district. ' 1
Til(e congre tion 11of tle ' oleon
ground last week for its new buildlag
at the corner of Napoleon avenue ard
St . Charles avenue, New Orleans.
'orm, a'nnouncement of the actual
ork to be done on tl'e building w'as
made ly W. K. Seagro chairman of the.t
building comittee. The li cost of the
builh i ng, including the site, furnih
honol epistri.t No. S hoolarD'ntlr it0
ing anrrid appliances, will e sabout 90,
spThe Cal letifornia touring part of
Thfarmers' prizes of twinning boys weissre en
erchools and a negro school in Batonls
RougThe guests werele dtion isat the Indusecon
trial Institu bete, heand afterwar bond isstake
wasover the country visitoning places of but
interest and sugar mills. Tile visitors
No.were delighted and saiome of thise sctherion
suburbs of the city whech already
more coresemblprised their ome state than
distriany placet. yet visited.ct.
Harr coy ngregation teeofn-y the ar-old son
Anthony S. Kellsbyter, shot and dangeroke
grouslynd last wounded himself while bhuntilding
t three cornmiles southerst of Napoleon avenue and
was standing on a small bridge leans.
ing on hi gannounce when the weapon slip
woped, striking the nhammers on the edg
of thmade plank, diea, chairging a load of the
shot into his left arm. It wat found
buinecldessary to ampudintate sithe furnish
ing and appliances, will be about $9t,
The police jufory nia touring plarty of
towards the scountry vablishment of an ag
interest and sugar mills. The visitors
were delighted and said this section
more resembled their home state than
any place yet visited.
Harry49 of 1910Kelle, towr fifteen-year-old suction of
Anthony S. Keller, shot and danger
edously wounded himself while plalunting
of three miles southeastone of Monrothe W. ieC. A.
builwas standing Fridon a small bridge ompleante-,
this buildingun whenill the weapon slipt
atped, stractive in the sthammers on the edge
of the pland his sister, lharginge stokhold- o
Thers in thpole juGreat Southern Lumber
prCompany, have ontributed 25,000$200 a year for three year
toward the cost of the building.
ast Baton ricultural department n connectiod
teau.144, her mileage feade formal application te Jeer
to help obtatein the highwayrtment for the
eastate aide ofund the river, between Baton
49 of 1910, toward tOrlea constru, and has action o
Aned promptly in complying wasith thearrang
requirement ofgalusa the association.
Frank Murphy, perhaps, is the onlyA.
mabuilding Friday. When dled a wheeld
at New Orleans whil be onthe mayof the most
atteleraction bet madthe with Tom MoraFrank .
Murphy bet on Hughes.rn Lum
CompThe granyd jury, school board and$25,000
toward the oslice ury all met oflast week at Villebuilding
SPlatte.
Officials, Masons of High Degree, Who
Attended Scottish Rite Fall Reunion
.t..X 1 `ý, , `
,..t U.. ¢ `^r :
"I
24'4
.:.' . . ,,
,...f +r ,.w :r :  vt.. Y r ,v :4j ) ý , , . .. i i'. "  . . . ..
yiif 4i'vr^ ,'3 t3ýy z ._+. ;!i _ T 't ti` y r ut`. ' "
Y 1. r. " ý Y ," .. I ..
'.. }ý.. .' 'n l I 7,ý' ,v..Y . .rt.:ý +ý,y ý 1 'f 'rjM ". ,r ý" rj ;1 r. 'ý
()no of the feat ures of ile silver an
niversary fall reunion of Arkansas
C'onsistory No. 1, Ancient and Accept
ed Scottish Rite Masons, was the pres
ence of three sovereign grand officers
and visitors of prominence from sev
eral large consistories in the United
States. Geo. F. Moore, sovereign
grand commander; Charles E. Rosen
haum, deputy grand commander, and
D. M. Halley, sovereign grand inspec
tor general, all thirty-third degree Ma
sons, are the most prominent of those
in attendance, as all are represents
tives of the highest body of Scottish
Rite Masonry.
NO0EMBER 30 SET
FOR THANKSGIVING
PRESIDENT WILSON FOLLOWS
USUAL CUSTOM OF SETTING
ASIDE LAST THURSDAY.
Washington.-President' Wilson for
mally, by proclamation, designated
Thursday, November 30, as Thanks
giving Day.
The president's proclamation fol
lows:
"It has long been the custom of our
people to turn in the fruitful autumn
of the year in praise and thanksgiving
to Almighty God for his many bless
ings and mercies to us and to the na
tion.
"The year that has elapsed since we
last observed. our day of thanksgiving
has been rich in blessing to us as a
people, but the whole face of the
world has been darkened oy war. In
the midst of our peace and happiness
our thoughts dwell with painful dis
quiet upon the struggles and suffer
ings of the nations at war and of the
people upon whom war has brought
disaster without choice or possibility
of escape on their part. We cannot
think of our own happiness without
thinking of their pitiful distress.
"Now, therefore, I, Woodrow Wil
son, president of the United States
of America, do appoint Thursday, the
thirtieth day of November, as a day
of national thanksgiving and prayer
and urge and advise the people to re
sort to their several places of wor
ship on that day to render thanks to
Almighty God for the blessings of
peace and unbroken prosperity whicn
he has bestowed upon our beloved
country in such unstinted measure.
"And I also urge and suggest our
duty, in this, our day of peace and
abundance, to think in deep sympathy
of the stricken peoples of the world
upon whom the curse and terror of
war has so pitilessly fallen and to
contribute out of our abundant means
to the relief of their sufferings.
"Our people could in no better way
show their real attitude toward the
present struggle of the nations than
by contributing out of their abundance
to the relief of the suffering which
war has brought in its train.
"In witness whereof, I have here
unto set my hand and caused the seal
of the United States to be affixed.
"Done at the city of Washington
this 17th day of November, in the
year of our Lord, 1916,
Those in the group picture are a;
follows:
,Bottom Row, Left to Right-Charles
E. Rosenbaum, Little Rock, deputy
sovereign grand commander and head
ai Scottish Rite Masonry in Arkansas
Mad saeond highest ranking officer in
the lilted States; George T. Moore,
Was lgton, D. C., sovereign grand
OOt der, the highest official in tlhe
tder, . M. Halley, McAlester, Okla.,
Ser n grand insjgctor general for
d Row, Left to Right-Nat M.
Washed San Antonio. Tex., an official
REPUBLICANS CLAIM CONTROL
With Progressives and Independent
Elected, Majority Is Claimed.
Washington. - Incompleted can
vasses of the vote in several close
congressional districts brought no
changes in the unofficial election re
sults which indicate that 217 Repub
licans, 212 Democrats and six of other
parties have been elected to the Sixty
fifth Congress.
Although the unofficial returns show
the Republicans to be one short of a
majority, they are counting on the
Progressive elected in Minnesota, tile
Progressive-Republican in Louisiana
and the independent in Massachu
setts to vote with them for James R.
Mann for speaker.
Prospects of a Republican gain
were apparent in the Thirty-second
Pennsylvania district, where the can
vass of all Pittsburgh precincts show
ed Representative Barchfleld leading
Guy Campbell, his Democratic oppo
nent, by 12 votes. On the unofficial
returns Campbell led Barchfleld by 19
votes. Country precincts still are to
be canvassed.
Chairman Fitzgerald of the House
Appropriations Committee, said the
Christmas recess might be abandoned
so more business could be transacted.
May Take Oath in Sunday.
Washington.-There will be no
lapse in the service of President Wil
son because of the fact that March 4.
next inauguration day, falls on Sun
day, according to the State Depart
ment. On account of the reports that
a lapse would occur and that Secre
tary Lansing would be acting presi
dent on March 4 a form letter explain
ing the law has been prepared to be
sent to inquiries. While it is probable
that President Wilson will not be in
augurated until Monday, March 5, he
will be advised by Secretary Lansing
to take the oath of office on Sunday.
Campaign To Move Up Clock.
New York.-American railroads will
be asked by the Daylight Saving Com
mission to take the initiative in put
ting into effect next summer the pro
posed plan to turn the clock forward
one hour in this country. A national
daylight saving convention will be
held here January 30 and 31 next and
the committee meanwhile will confer
with railway presidents.
Building Another Merchant Marine.
Washington. - Another German
Transatlantic merchant submarine to
replace the Bremen, which was lost
with all hands on her first voyage to
the United States, now is being built
in Germany.
of the Texas body and a thirty-third
degree Mason; P. W. Freeman, Mc
Alester, Okla., a thirty-third degree
Mason: D)r. .J. W. Chamberlain, St.
Paul. Minn., and J. T. ('hristian, St.
Paul, Minn.. both prominent in the
work and both thirty-third degree Ma
Top Row. Lett to Right--'Fred Cowl,
Wheeling. W. Va., a thirty-third de
gree visitor; Ben E. Hamilton, Knight
Commander, also of Wheeling, N. V.
Langford, Knight Commandier, St.
Paul, and Dr. W. T. Moris, Knight
Commander of Wheeling.
MONASTIR OCCUPIED
By FRENCH TROOPS
THE GERMAN AND BULGARIAN
FORCES ARE DRIVEN FROM
SERBIAN CITY.
Paris. -French troops captured
from the German and Bulgarian forces
the chief southern Serbian town of
Monastir, the French War Department
reports.
The campaign for Monastir has ex
tended over a period of several
months, with the French and British
troops from Saloniki and the reorgan
ized Serbian army participating. For
many weeks the battle seemed a draw,
but recently the Bulgarian-German
line began to yield, and since then the
allied forces have been steadily driv
Ing back their enemies. The advance
was always slowly, but each day the
reports told of small gains.
Last week the French and Serbian
forces took possession of the crest of
the hills to the south of Monastir, and
threatened to reduce the city with
their heavy artillery. The German
position apparently became untena
ble and the Germans and Bulgars
withdrew. The Germans are now said
to occupy hills north of the city.
Another Franco-Serbian force that
has been driving upon Monastir from
the southeast is continuing to gain
ground, having recently taken several
more small towns in that region.
With Monastir in their possession,
it is expected that the Serbs will set
up a government on their own soil
with the recaptured city as the capi
tal.
News of the occupation if Monastir
was received in Paris as one of the
most important of the recent develop
ments of the war.
The Temps says that the success is
not only of immense moral value, but
is likely to have a great influence on
subsequent cevelopments in the Bal
kan campaign, as the place commands
all the practical routes between the
Aegean sea and the Adriatic sea.
Many Killed By Bomb.
Paris.-A dispatch to the Havas
Agency from Padua, Italy, says the
total number of persons killed or
wounded by a single bomb dropped
by an Austrian aviator aggregated 90.
of whom 32 were killed. The dis
patch adds that all the persons were
noncombatants and that most of them
were women and children.
IWARO CONTRACTS
FOR WARSHIP ARMOR
'LANS FOR AMMUNITION SHIP
APPROVED BY SECRETARY
DANIELS.
WORK ON 1918 ESTIMATES
Carnetr_ and Betnietlem Ste.t Coe".
panies Get Contr.cts For Four :
tlesi ipa-Pr;ce of Armor Shows
Little Advr rt.:,:.
Shr e-year p,1ogra "l l ' . I ' ' I" it i :tal 
than $6ti,t't,0ooIl in Oxs)'- of t0le rte
ord total appropriat t last sum'. I .
Contracts fo, r th:tlll ar'Ir plate, wlhipch
cwill go on the Colorado, f hMaryland.
Washington and West Voirginia were
awarded to the Bthlelhem and ('tarn
gte Steel companies, each receiving
proprittions of $wok.151. or ,or,
half of the work.
A statement analyzing the contractut
ordsays that despite the unprecedented
Curopean demand for plate, the prices
wias thoe paid three years ago, when
the Pennsylvania was being constructe
ed. The figures are from $420 a ton
to $466.
The department estimates before the
Housal of the ubcommittee call for funds to
begin construction of three bcontract
atrop, one battle cruiser, three pricot
Sthcruiser, 16 destroyers, our fleet suwhen
marines, 14 coast submarines, one
submarine tender and one destroyer
tender.
Guardsmen Send Reptiles Home.
San Antonio, Tex.-Based on com$
plaint of the postalauthorities that
begolder on dutr along thre Mexican
border have been sending live insects,
animals and reptiles througr fl te Un
ed States mails, General Punston has
ordered that postal regulations be
strictly observed by tone gusrdsmen.
The soldiers have been mailing .ia
ards, scorpions, horned toads and
other specimens of border life to
"the folks back home."
Santa Claus To Troops.
Washington.-Thousands of socks
stufled with Cporistmas gifts are to be
presented to the American troops at
the border and in Mexico through the
Red Cross. Miss Mabel BFunstonardma has
ordead of the organization, said that
chapters throughotved by the country will
be asked to begin collection of gifts
immediately, such articles as candy.
stationary,pipes, tobacco and and
kerchiefs being preferred. For pur
chase of the socks a cash fund will
be solicited.
Name Grading Stations.
Washington.-TDivison of the socks,
try into 32 districts for adminisat
tion of the federal grain standards
act, which becomes effective Decem
ber 1, was announced by the Depart
ment of Agriculture. Headquarters oC
the Southwestern districts will be es
tablaished in the following cities which
will have grading stations: St. ouis.
Cairo, Ill., Kansas City, Mo., Memphis.
New Orleans, Galveston. lort Worth.
Oklahoma City, Wichita.
Here Is Some Relief.
('hicago.-Ultra-fashionable cloth
ing for women promises to be less ex
tpensive than the leading styles a year
ago, in spite of increased costs for ma
terials, members of the National
Cloak, Suit and Skirt Manufacturers'
hAssociation said at the close of their
annual convention and fashion show.
The style will be simpler and the cost
of manufacture will be. less, they said.
Sue The Deutschland.
New York.-The German submarine
merchantman Deutschlland was libeled
for $12,000 by the T. A. Scott C(om
pany for the loss of the tug sunk in
collision as the submarine started for
Germany. Bond will be given by the
undersea freighlter'fs agents and her
return will not be delayed.
Women to Have Big Lobby.
San Francisco.- The next Congress
will be besieged by the largest equal
uffirage lobby in history, according to
speakers at a post-election luncheon
of the National Woman's Party hber
