Education
Organization
Emancipation
VOL. XXV.
PROGRESS AND DEVELOPMENT
OF THE U. S. POSTAL SERVICE
It has so often been said that gov
ernment owned institutions cannot be
run at a profit—a pel theory of the
private interests —that the Journal
will lay before its readers a letter
from Postmaster General Burleson to
Representative Henry T. Rainey of
Illinois, showing that the department
has not only earned a neat surplus,
but greatly enlarged and increased
the efficiency of the service. The
letter was given as an extension of
the remarks of Mr. Rainey in the
House of Representatives on Septem
ber 7, as follows:
What the Postoffice Department Has
Done and Is Doing for the Rural
and Farming Population
—Parcel Post
The United States parcel post is
handling approximately 1,100,000,000
parcels a year, or over 90,000,000 a
month. II is impossible to state the
proportion of this business which is
distinctly rural. II is undoubtedly
title, however, that the chief function
of the government's express service
lias proved to be agricultural. That
is. the government is the principal ex
press carrier now operating between
city and country and vice versa. The
bulk of the parcel post business is of
this nature, whereas the bulk of the
business of the private express com
panies passes between city and city.
The growth of the parcel post as a
medium of exchange between city and
country has raised questions which
are now more or less bitterly in con
troversy. Retailing organizations of
the cities have attacked the farm-to
table feature of the parcel service
which involves direct exchange by
government express of farm products
between the rural producer and the
urban consumer. A second and a
larger controversy has to do with the
effect of the development of mail
order business upon the country mer
chant.
Does the farmer want his new ex
press facilities —which he did not have
before—taken away? Is he not better
off now than he was before? Is he
not brought into closer relation, into
almost direct touch, with city life?
Has the farmer not been drawn ir'.o
closer association with the entire
social and business fabric of our coun
try? And does not this make for the
intelligent development of the farmer,
and also make the conditions sur
rounding life on the farm more in
teresting and attractive? All these
questions are applied from the purely
business one of whether the parcel
post tends to make the things which
the farmer must buy cheaper, and to
expand and improve the market for
the things which he sells. Undoubted
ly ihe parcel post does do both of
these latter things.
And the country farmer is not the
only gainer because of the parcel
post. The country merchant is of
fered new facilities, too, which may
more than offset the business secured
by the mail-order houses of the large
cities. Because of the parcel post he
|g ■enabled to handle merchandise
heretofore out of his reach, and nat
urally the scope of people to whom'
he can possibly sell is greatly en
larged.
In many sections farmers within
second zone distance of large cities
have demonstrated that the farm-to
table selling by parcel post is a huge
success. In a number of cities from
I! to 800 packages of farm produce are
passing through the postoffices daily.
The new service has gained a foot
hold, and its expansion into genuine
economic proportions is assured.
The Following letter addressed by aj
Farmer lo former Postmaster Praeger
of Washington, D. C, reflects the at-,
lit tide of practically every farmer
Inward the parcel post:
"To my mind nothing has ever been
Inaugurated in America which will
tend to make the farmer more content
t, nay on the farm than the estab
lishing of the parcel post method of (
disposing of his products. It gives
bim business practice; it gives him
Hi,, feeling of doing a mail-order busi
ness, lie finds much more satisfac
tion ami pleasure in preparing his|
produce for real appreciative human
lieinus first hand as against a sort of
commission machine into which his
produce, no matator how painstaking
ly it has been prepared, is dumped. It
tilso brings rural dwellers into close
communion with the envied city res!-'
a en ts. It gives him the feeling that
his efforts are appreciated, and creates
ii high incentive to produce the best
possible articles, and thus win the
confidence of his patrons."
One "l the most interesting develop
mentl of the last year in the parcel
post, service is the increase in the
average weight of parcels. The count
of April 1-15, 1916, showed an average
Weight of 1 pound 7 ounces. The
counts of October 1-15, 1915, and of
April 1-15, 191G, both returned an
average weight of 1 pound 11 ounces.
The parcel post act and the changes
of rates and regulations as to weight
limits subsequently made by Post
master General Burleson greatly re
duced the rates upon the heavier par
icels and opened the mails to parcels
weighing 20 pounds throughout the
country and to parcels weighing 50
! pounds within the first, two zones or
within 150 miles of the point of each
j sipment's origin.
Shortly after assuming office on
.March 4, 1018, it became apparent to
me that radical changes must be made
iif this service was to meet the de
mands of the farmers, business men
and the general public. The ex
pansion of the parcel post into a pub
lic utility of vast proportions is di
rectly due to successive liberalizations
of the parcel post regulations, as
follows:
(1) Reducing postage for distance
up to the sixth zone.
(2) Increasing the weight limit from
11 to 50 pounds in the first and second
zones and from 11 to 20 pounds be
yond the second zone.
(8) Admitting books to the parcel
post.
(4) Increasing the size limit from
72 inches to S9 inches combined
length and girth measurement.
(5) Reducing the cost of insurance
from 10 cents to 3 cents on parcels
valued at $5 or less and introducing a
graduated scale of low insurance fees
for greater values up to $100.
(6) Authorizing the issuance of re
ceipts for parcels shipped, which
serve as evidence of mailing.
(7) Providing indemnity for partial
damage as well as loss of parcels.
At man) postoffices government
owned automobiles are used, day and
night deliveries introduced, and re
frigerators installed in order to safe
guard perishable parcels. Damage to
parcels in transit has been reduced to
less than one-tenth of 1 per cent.
These broadening activities of the
parcel post in reaching out to the
farm for its products for the city
table and in providing a cheaper and
more efficient package-transportation
service for the general public has
naturally met With much determined
opposition from the business or per
sons that grew and prospered under
the restrictions of a private express
monopoly.
At the outset of this administration
it was found that millions of rural
residents had been denied delivery of
mail by carrier because inefficient
and extravagant administration of the
rural mail service, together with the
granting of special privileges of ser-
I vice to favored individuals and com
munities, had so depleted the appro
priations that extensions could not be
made to those who were entitled to
'the service. This condition has been
remedied in a drastic but thoroughly
impartial and scientific manner. The
discrimination against 3,280,000 —
actual count —rural citizens of the
United States has been removed by
the extension to them of the free de
livery of their mail by carrier, a
service unjustly denied them in the
past. This has been done by tlie
thorough reformation of the rural ser
vice in the department and in tlie
field, and the adoption of standardized
and efficient methods, and by elim
[mating duplications of service and
I service for which no Justification was
found to exist.
Since March 4, 1913, over 3,000 new
rural routes have been established.
More than 10,000 old routes have been
extended so that they reach a greater
number of people. Since March, 1913,
the department has received about
3,000 additional petitions. These peti
tions have received prompt considera
tion, and final action has in no case
been deferred longer than six months.
Less than 200 are now awaiting re
view. In the handling of these cases
the present postal administration has
proceeded in accordance with its
earnest desire to meet the needs of
the public and to render prompt and
effective service.
It litis been the policy of the Wilson
administration to weed out privilege
In every relation of the government
to the public. The postoffice depart
ment has cut out the "pork" in the
\ rural delivery service, and has used
the money thus made available to
The Labor Journal
gnutt service to a large percentage of
the rural population which needs and
justly deserves such service, hut has
been denied the same in the past.
Under the present administration the
post off ice department had adopted the
policy, and consistently worked under
that policy, of providing equal con
sideration and fair treatment to all
sections of the country in allowing to
each adequate postal facilities.
In some instances it was found that
as many as six rural carriers were
going over the same 8 or 10 miles of
road daily. Thus the length of two
whole rural routes was lost in useless
duplications of travel. These condi
tions resulted from' administrative in
action in the past, and naturally every
advantage was taken of official negli
gence or Incapacity to introduce and
secure unfair privileges, promote per
sonal Interests, and mulct the postal
service for partisan or political ends.
The department is now, and has been,
sincerely endeavoring to provide pos
tal facilities with respect only to the
needs of the people and the advance
ment of their welfare. Partisan bias
and influence have been eliminated
and action taken only upon good and
sufficient evidence of the needs of the
service, administered efficiently, util
izing every device and using every
means to accommodate not only those
already served, but also as many new
patrons as could be served under the
appropriations granted by congress.
(Continued Next Week)
"THE COMMONWEALTH'S"
UNBIASED VIEW OF IT
"The Commonwealth," a non-parti
san weekly pledged to the common
good, gives a truthful story of the
recent disorders in Everett and also
sums up the deplorable events in the
following editorial:
"We give considerable space to the
Everett massacre because the subject
is one of really great and grave im
portance. The account also differs
somewhat from that which you have
read in the daily press. This account
makes intelligible the occurrence.
"In your reading and thinking and
discussion of this occurrence don't
forget its original cause. Had not
Everett- and when we say Everett we
mean the Commercial Club which the
people of Everett have allowed to
represent, their city—denied these
men the privilege of holding meetings
on the streets and punishing them like
slaves and dogs for demanding that
privilege, there would have been no
'bloody Sunday' in the little City
down Sound.
"The I. W. W.s are not violent folk.
The Everett occurrence proves that
they were not. Had they been of the
type you may think they are they
would have chosen different methods.
They went to Everett to protest, not
to kill. The manner of their coming
proves this. They knew they would
be met with official resistance. They
knew that these officials would be
armed. Had they wanted to take re
venge for indignities suffered, upon
members of the Commercial Club or
public officials, any man could figure
out a thousand ways more effective
than the method they chose.
"But the point we wish to drive
home is that for the mere granting
of a privilege which would cost the
City of Everett nothing at all, the
right of street meetings, no blood need
have been shed in Everett Sunday,
November 5. Everett can't plead in
terference with traffic. She has room
and to spare for street meetings and
all the traffic. But the Commercial
Club is opposed to the free use of
speech, just as similar organizations
are opposed to it in Seattle and other
cities. They would shut any street
in the city if a land show should come
along to boost the city's business.
"And note the coincidence. The
Kverett Commercial Club comes to
the Seattle chamber of Commerce for
aid and advice. They are of tlie same
■tamp. You will always find these
organization! handed together against
progressive movements. Two years
ago a poll showed that there wasn't a
corporal's guard in all the member
ship of hundreds in the Seattle Cham
ber of Commerce who were opposed to
the liquor traffic. They all wanted
liquor retained. They went down the
line solidly against prohibition. They
went down the line against the refer
endums. They wanted the suffrage
restricted by constitutional amend
ment to those possessing assessable
property. It is safe to say that had
there been no Commercial Club in
Kverett there would have been no
bloody Sunday. There must be mighty
weighty reasons for the curtailment
of free speech in a democracy, and
Everett has failed to show such
reasons."
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST
EVERETT. WASH., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1916
TRADES
COUNCIL
NEWS
Wednesday, Nov. 22
Council met at 8 p. pi., with Presi
dent Dieterle in the chair.
Brother (1. Bogan W»s seated as a
Shingle Weavers delegate i" till Hi
unexpired term of Broth, r 11. Paylor.
Brothers Vie E. Olson and Charles
Goerlich were seated a- delegates
from the Pressmen's Union.
The committee appointed to confer
with it like committee from the Se
attle Central Labor Council reported
a conference with the Seattle commit
tee on the question of applying for fed
eral investigation of 1. W. W. Com
mercial Club disorders in Everett. It
was decided by the joit.t committee
to endorse the preambh and resolu
tions adopted by a mass meeting of
3000 people at Dreamt I Rink, in
Seattle, last Sunday afternoon, as well
as the telegram forwarded to Presi
dent Wilson by order of that meeting.
Following tire the resolutions and
telegram:
"Whereas, For some months last
past industrial troubles have prevailed
at Everett, Wash., and vicinity, aris
ing chiefly from the strike of tin 1
Longshoremen and Bhingle Weavers
in that community; and
"Whereas, On Sunday, November
6th, 1916, a deplorable ami bloody
conflict in which seven men wen'
killed and about fifty wounded; ami
"Whereas. Such inten local feel
ing has been engendered as renders it
difficult to ascertain lit' 1 facts ami
determine the causes responsible for
the tragedy; that the matter is of
such importance and the situation so
grave that, the welfare of this section
as well as the cause of justice, de
mands that all the material facts be
ascertained.
"That on the one hand it is con
tended by the employers and their
sympathizers that an armed and law
less body of Industrial Workers of the
World went, from Seattle to Everett
on hoard the steamer Verona for the
purpose of commit tit s various of
fenses against the public; that on the
other hand it is con:' ndod that the
said passengers on tin Verona were
not armed and that they wen l going
to Everett for the purpose of assert
ing the right of free speech, which has
been illegally denied them and law
fully to protest against the strikers
and their sympathizers by the of
ficials, special agents and deputies
hired by the employer-, therefore be it
"Resolved, By the citizens of Se
attle assembled in mass convention at
Dreamland Rink, this tilth day of No
vember, 1916, that wt earnestly re
quest the congress of the United
States and the president to investi
gate all the facts connected with, and
the causes leading to. the said traged]
and to report thereon, to the end that
ways and means maj be devised to
prevent the recurrence of such de
plorable events."
At the close of the meeting te fol
lowing telegram was Immediately for
warded: \
"Seattle, Wash.. Nov. 19, 1916.
"Hon. Woodrow Wilson,
"President of the United States,
"Washington, D. C.:
"Three thousand Seattle citizens In
mass convention at Dreamland pa
vilion considered tragic events of No
vember 5 at Even ti. this state, in
which seven citizens were killed and
many others injured, and In resolu
tions which are being sent by mail
urge a complete federal and congres
sional investigation of the affair and
the events leading up to it, to the end
that the real culprits be properly dealt
with and the provisions of the bill of
rights of the constitution of the United
States be assured to all, We respect
fully request as a committee appoint
ed by the meeting that you immediate
ly act In the Interest of humanity.
"ROBERT BRIDGES,
"E. B. AULT,
"C. W. DOYLE,
"JAMES A. DUNCAN.
"Committee '
The report of the committee was
adopted and the committee continued,
Reports of Unions
Cigarmakers reported one initiation,
three withdrawals ami two transfers
Carpenters reported a good meet
ing.
Plumbers reported a good meeting
Painters enjoyed a social session on
their last meeting night.
Shingle Weavers had a better meet
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
ing than for some time past, in lac:
Wednesday's meeting was tlie large I
for several months. None of their
members have gone back to work.
Pressmen reported good attendance
ami good business.
Lafiel League reported a social
session.
Father O'Brien and Rev. Mr. Flint
of tlie Congregational church visited
the Council and had an interchange of
views on several topics of interest.
Interesting talks were made by sev
eral delegates, a collection was taken
up to buy tobacco for the I. W. W.
prisoners and the Council adjourned.
MARSH MOVES FOR
FEDERAL INQUIRY
The tense feeling prevailing, owing
to the recent tragic events in this city,
impressed upon the minds of Hie peo-
I pie the necessity for other than local
authority to restore peaceful condi
tions In Kverett. Holding that view,
President E. P. Marsh of the State
Federation of Labor sent a telegram
to President Wilson and followed it
by letters, one to the president, and
the other to Secretary of Labor Wil
son. Following are the letters, which
are self-explanatory:
Hon. Woodrow Wilson,
President of the United States.
I Mr, President:—
I In view of the extremely critical in
dustrial situation existing in this city,
jl deem it advisable to join with other
I labor officials in this state In asking
that a full Federal investigation of the
battle between citizens of Everett and
members of the Industrial Workers of
the World on Nov. 6th, 1916, resulting
in loss of life on both sides, be under
taken.
The city is divided into warring
camps, an intense bitter feeling pre
vails, the good name of the city has
been blackened, and the only hope of
i establishing an era of better feeling
on an enduring basis seems to be a
fair and impartial investigation
through which the whole facts of the
tragedy and the industrial and civic
conditions which brought it about, be
undertaken.
Very Sincerely Yours,
E. I. -MARSH.
President Washington State Federa
tion of Labor.
Hon. Wm. B, Wilson,
Secretary of Labor,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir and Brother: —
Doubtless by the time this reaches
you, you will have received com
munications upon the same subject
! from numerous Central Labor Coun
cils in this state. While it is true
that in every industrial conflict of,
any moment, where deeds of violence!
tire committed, there are many exag
gerated statements, still I deem the
situation serious enough in this city
Ito warrant a thorough investigation
by the Federal government. I do not
know If this can be done without act
of Congress, but the situation is ex
tremely critical and an investigation
should be carried on which would,
guarantee that every phase of this I
unfortunate controversy, which cul-j
initiated in loss of human life, should
be thoroughly establslhed. As you
know, my home is In Everett, and 1
have been as thoroughly conversant
with the industrial conditions leading
up to this tragedy as any labor of
ficial. I hold no brief for the Indus
trial Workers of the World, have
fought their doctrines and tactics in
season and out of season. That does
not blind me to tlie fact that they
have been brutally treated in the
name of duly constituted authority
and goaded by such treatment into
retaliation. Quite probably Mr. Black
mail, who has been working in the
Interests of your department in this
section, has apprised you of the main
facts as they seem to be established.
Mr. Blackmail has worked with myself
and other citizens incessantly to
bring about a settlement locally of the
industrial trouble which indirectly
brought about the clash with the I.
W. W.s and be knows pretty well the
cause-- that led up to this culmination.
I am writing briefly to the Presi
dent of the United States, urging thai
a government investigation be under
taken. It is my earnest wish that all
the facts be brought to light. The
condition is Intolerable, an Intensely
bitter feeling prevails, many of the
business men are outspoken in their
determination to drive unionism out
of Everett, 1 am working day and
night with representative citizens to
brim- about a better industrial situa
tion and prevent further loss of life!
and property and shall continue to'
give of my lime to that end.
Willi very best wishes. 1 remain,
Sincerely and Fraternally Yours.
X P. MARSH.
Nov. IT. 191ti.
SICKENING STORY OF INDUSTRIAL
SLAVERY IN NEW YORK STATE
IN THE CENTER OF THE GREATEST STATE IN
"FREE AMERICA"
Right in the heart of Central Xew
York, prosperous and boasting of its
wealth, there is now tin example of
cruelty, incompetence and lawlessness
against striking workers, on the part
of a big and wealthy industrial cor
poration, which rivals the things done
lin Colorado by the Rockefeller In
|terests, or on the Mesaha Range or
jin Pittsburgh by the Steel Trust. Just
outside of Utica. in Ihe little town of
New York Mills, 2700 Polish men and
(women, industrious and peaceful, are
j being thrown out of company houses,
! terrorized anil assaulted by armed
thugs and guards, their children sick
ened and in many instances killed by
the diseases of exposure; themselves
and their families subjected to starva
tion and sickness. These things are
being perpetrated against them by
their employer, the Xew York Mills
Corporation (of which A. D. Juillard
of New York City is the responsible
president i, because they have struck
for a 10 per cent increase of wages
that are too low, by any standard, for
decent living. •
I These statements are made after
personal investigation by the writer.
Not only have these striking weav
ers and spinners received smaller
wages In this exceptionally profitable
year than any family can live upon
With merited comfort, but they have
been forced to live in company houses,
many of them in bad repair, most of
iliem overcrowded, and many of them
infected by indescribably filthy
privies set within a few feet of the
kitchen and living-room doors. In one
I such company house a very poor
widow was living with five small
children, ranging in age from two to
ten years. This woman was a worker
in the mills. Her wages before the
Strike had been $7 a week, from which
[the company deducted $1 a week for
j house rental, Every three months
:$1.40 was charged her for water. Not
jas far as ten feet from the door of
j the room in which the widow's babies
slept was a privy, with a broken door,
as foul and horrible as anything of
that foul kind condemned and done
away with in Pittsburgh by the Pitts-;
burgh Survey. Myriad flies, flown in
from the filthy outhouse, were in the'
room. The visit was at night, and the
ceiling and walls were black with the
One of the same law-violating
privies was maintained by the com
panies in tlie back yard of the miser
able cottage that is now being used
as a hospital for the very sick chil
dren of the workers. The warning
sign, "Infantile Paralysis," is posted
on the front door. In the adjoining
house children lived, and were playing
in the yards of the "hospital and the
house with no fence between. Con
sider that widow and her children in
the house by the company privy: con
sider that hospital (witli iis company
privy I for tlie children of workers
who had dared to stand together in
ilie demand for a decent living and
consider then this fact of irony: That
a short time ago A. D. Juillard. presi
dent of the company that thus ex
poses the lives of little children, gave
a hospital boat to the City of New-
York for the use of little children:
That ironical charity and philan
thropy came out of the same back
ground of industrial injustice from
Which sprang the organised demands
and strike of the workers.
There are thirty-three large and
fairly large textile plants in Utica anil
its surroundings, and there are sixty
two such plants, including th" verj
small ones. A considerable majority
of the 27nn men and women workers
in the plants of the New York Mills
Corporation, of the Oneida Bleacher)
Company (a subsidiary corpora; on
and one of the Westoott-Campbell
Company had been organized into a
local union of the United Textile
Workers of America, affiliated with
the American Federation of Labor.
The power of the union organization
enabled the employees of those com
panies to formulate and present de
mands affecting their work and
Wages that the unorganized workers
lln the other plants of the Utica dis-
Itrtct were powerless even to voice.
In the lean \cars preceding the
recent factory activity there had been
several cuts in wages. The two or
three later increases made had not
brought back wages to the earlier
In Organization
Lies the Hope
of Labor
By DANTE BARTON
standing, In spite of iho increased
cost of living. Workers In the weav
ing department of Xo. l mill say that
their average pay for the full year
was 110.70, or $550.40 for the year. In
1010 it litis been at the rate of $10.42
a week, or $541.88 for the full year.
The men say that the hours of day
work were 54 in the week and the
hours or night work 60 In the week.
When the demands of the union
were presented they were rejected by
the company with a complete refusal
to deal with the union or recognize it
by arbitration or otherwise. On July
IS the workers struck. For the first
seven weeks of the strike not a wheel
turned in the mills. Xo attempt was
made to coerce the striking workers
who siood together solidly. Then
vigorous efforts began to be made to
get workers into the mills at the old
underpay rale. The other employers
| of the Utica district, and the banking
i interests that controlled them finan
cially, rallied to the support of the
j Xew York Hills Corporation. Joseph
Minszcwskl, organizer for the United
■ Textile Workers, says that the man
tiger of the corporation told him that
the employers' association would not
permit, his corporation to give in to
the demands of its workers because
the other mills In the district, whose
i workers were unorganized and help
less, would have to meet the rise in
the scale. The union of employers
was admittedly complete.
The unsuccessful attempts to bring
in strike-breakers included an effort
to set off supposed national dislikes
i against one .'mother. A special effort
was made to get Italian workers.
Some years before the Poles had been
brought in by the company to take
the places of Italian workers, who, in
| earlier turn, had displaced the original
:mill hands of Irish, Scotch and Eng
lish ancestry. That attempt failed of
'any considerable success. So have
'failed the constant effforts to bring
in any sort of workers from any sort
!of dsitances. The writer of this re
t port saw a letter from the superin
tendent of the New York .Mills Cor
poration's mills to a cotton mill
; worker of Corsicana, Texas, offering
to send railway transportation to
Utica to the man and as many other
' workers as he would bring to work in
the mills, refusing to scab on fellow
workers, and not having been told
that a strike was in progress.
The persecution of tlie workers in
creased with the failure of the cor
poration to get other workers in their
places. The evictions from the cor
poration's houses, which had begun
with tlie beginning of the strike, in
creased in frequency. Ferocity most
nearly describes the manner in which
the families were thrown out from
the corporation's houses into the
street. On the cold night when this
investigation was made in Xew York
Mills, four families, all including lit
tle children, wet,, put out with no
place to lay their heads. There were
tears in the eyes and suffering in the
faces of the fathers and the mothers
and the little children themselves.
They had been evicted on a week's
notice, the corporation claiming the
privilege of giving only seven days'
notice, although the attorney of the
union says thai the lav, allows a
in all other landlord and tenant
■
mastery o\cr the lives of those who
If there were tears and suffering,
there was also the moat splendid
spirit of courage and good cheer on
\es It I It.
into the already crowded homes of
other strikers and friends. The finest
:
these people in good faith ami hope,
and has alone enabled them lo give
assurance of their ultimate victory.
Morning and night, hundreds ol the
men. women and Children walk as
pickets in usually silent appeal to the
few strikebreakers going Into and
coming out of the mills, to cease their
efforts to take the jobs from those to
whom they rightfully belong. It is
right in that connection that the cor
poration has achieved its combination
(Continued on Page Three!
No. 92
