Jefferson Davis Parish's Leading Weekly Newspaper
E!t'M XII. l1\ ELSH, JEFFERSON !DAVIS PARISH, LOUISIANA. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 191(. NUMBER
n • i *l)  •-- = :-nc fI I--- I . . .... a .. .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . "-  .. . . ... ..
Sp~3g PECAN ORCHARD I
IS BEARING FRUIT
r. d Mrs. Jno. H. Cooper re
to Welsh Sunday after spend
several days at the Dr.'s farm near
where they have a twenty
peoi orchard. The orchard con
about 305 trees of six popular
ietie Success, Havens, Russell,
n pemon, Capitol and Pabst, about
So which are bearing this year,
hough the orchard has only been
ted about eight years. Dr.
p is very well pleased with his
s in this line, noting that
many years older than his, in
oining orchards, had not begun to
-ome specimens of the nuts from
orchard are on display in the
office window. They are very
specimens, too, and have attract
pguh comment, being large, well
nuts of the thin shell variety.
go Dr. has a tenant on his place
besides looking after the orchard
him a considerable rental, so
while he is preparing for the fu
Sis reaping some present gains
his invstment. The editor of the
riTown Talk has purchased
tea acre tract in the same section
which Dr. Cooper's is located and
recently written to the Dr. for in
tion as to varieties, methods of
ling, etc., and he is also in re
of numerous other communica
from people who are preparing
plant pecan orchards in that sec
who appreciating the success that
marked his efforts, seek expert
]6 has one tree in his yard at his
here in Welsh, about the same
d those in his orchard at Alex
of the Russell variety, that is
bearing this year.
Vey few men these times have the
ht to anticipate old age, or
, but among those who do,
.Ceper is one that will get much
in later years from the pol
Shat e is pursuing in preparing
b future.
T THE METHODIST CHURCH.
Isirday evening at 7:,l0 Rev. J. A.
district superintendent, will
the fourth quarterly conference
his conference year. A full at
of the official board is de
Lr, Carruth will preach Sunday
and night. All are cordially
J. W. HERVEY, Pastor.
uxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxtxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxL= M
A Superb Gift to
your Family
N this page you see the photograph of Zenatello, the
- great Italian dramatic tenor recently knighted by
Sshould not let its the King of Italy. He is singing in direct compariscn with
!st ulip by without Edison's Re-Creation of his marvelous voice. Zenatello is
the souls of the but one of the many great artists who have proved in this
=i" nm with music."-e
STRANSKY manner that Edison's new invention Re-creates every voice
TRANSKY and every form of music with such liberal perfection that,
when heard in comparison with the original, it is impossible X
to distinguish one from the other. K
- USIC is the fourth The New Edison has been submitted to the acid test of K
Snattre-sfirstl o direct comparison with living artists before more than
taa raient, then shel. 200,000 music lovers. It has never failed to sustain this
- i r, then music."- astonishing test. The music critics of more than 200 of
BOVEE America's leading newspapers bear testimony to this fact in
the columns of their own papers. We shall be glad to show
you what the critics say.
Will there be real music
in your home at Christmas
kn machine gives but a hollow imitation the New York Tri,'ine said: "Edison has snared
- music. The New Edison is not a talking the soul of music." The New York Globe called
tine. The New Edison gives you the liter, it "the phonograph with a soul." We want you
Creation of music. In speaking of it, to investigate this wonderful new invention,.
Come to our store and hear -
a few examples of Edison's Wonderful New Art
You are under absolutely no obligations to buy. We
merel ask you to comb sdl hear whatwe elieve to be
the most womderiUl musical itrument In the world.
iPHENLDRUG STORE
JfIQ 2 T9*lh'tL -:-.,·
"BALLOTS FOR BOTH" NEW !
PENNA. WOMAN SLOGAN
International News Service. ]
Williamsport, Pa., Nov. 21.-With
nearly 500 women in attendance the
annual convention of the Pennsylvania
Woman Suffrage associaiton opened 1
today. Dr. Anna Howard Shaw is one
o, the notable national suffrage work
",rs in attendance. Prominent state
!laders include Mrs. Gifford Pinchot
)n, Miss M. Carey Thomas, president
of Bryn Mawr college.
'i'he principal business of the con
vention is the planning of the fight
b~fore the next state legislature for
an :ther rfcerendum on the suffrage
amendment. The legislative commit
tee conducted an active pre-election
campaign and reported today they
have pledges of support from a large
percentage of legislators elected at
the recent election. It was announced
at the opening session today that the
slogan of the Pennsylvania suffragists
has been changed from "votes for
women" to "ballots for both." The
convention will close Friday.
THANKSGIVING SERVICE AT
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
An interesting program will be ren
deted at the Presbyterian church
Thanksgiving evening, November 30,
at 7:30. The various phases of the
sub jet will be discussed by the dif
ferent speakers and a general good
time will he had. Everybody is in
vited. Come out and be thankful.
-Committee.
LOUISIANA'S FAIR NAME
SLANDERED AGAIN
The directors of the Lake Charles
Chamber of Commerce have with
drawn from the Chamber of Com
m:rce of the United States on account
of misleading and injurious reports
;published broadcast about Louisiana.
Some months ago one of the nation
al body's special committees made the
assertion that no fruit of any kind
coiuld be grown in Louisiana, the local
body sent a remonstrance, but no cor
rection was made. Last week it pub
lished a special report on the swamp
lands of the United States and the
map accompanying it showed all of
Louisiana but a small strip along the
northern border to be swamp land.
I For Rice Insurance see
E. C. Willard.
MEN FROM FOUR STATES
DISCUSS OZARK ROADS
International News Service.
Oklahoma City, Nov. 21.-With
good roads men from four states in
attendance the Ozark Trail associa
tion ccnvened here today for a two
days session. Delegates are inattend
ance from Missouri, Arkansas, Okla
homa and Kansas. Col. W. H. (Coin)
Harvey, of Monte, Ark., is presiding
Under direction of the association :
network of permanent highways ha,
been built in the four states, with
their heart in the Ozark mountain..
The principal arteries of the system
converge at Springfield, Mo. In addi
tion to discussion of the matter oi
routes and promoting interest in
building highways, the convention hay:
an extensive program of instruction
in all phases of highway buildingr
mapped out.
INTERESTING CLUB MEMBERS
IN TICK ERADICATION
At the Iowa school this week the
veterinary inspector doing tick eradi
cation work in Calcasieu parish ad
dressed the corn and pig club mem
bers on ticks and their cost to the
country. The boys were given pron
lems in arithmetic dealing with the
tick and its rapid increase during the
summer months and the pounds of
blood they take from cattle during the
same season. The club members all
agreed to go home and talk tick eradi
cation to their parents and neighbors.
CO-OPERATIVE SHIPPING
IN GRANT PARISH
At a recent meeting of Grant parish
farmers a local swine shipping asso
ciation was organized. Fourteen men
will have hogs ready to ship the latter
part of November. This will make
a carload shipment, the first of its
kind ever made from Grant parish.
GERMANY WILL SEND
3,000 ITALIANS HOME
Berlin, Nov. 22.-About three thou
sand Italian subjects who were in
terned in different parts of Germany
when Italy declared war against the
empire will shortly be released and
sent home through Switzerland. Only
the men of military age will remain
interned to the end of the war. It is
expected that the Italian government
will reciprocate by liberating the
Germans interned in Italy, but no such
promise has been given.
U. S. EXPERTS SEE Cl
TURKEY SOARING
International News Service.
Washington, Nov. 21.-The Thanks- Cc
giving turkey, higher in price and less cei
plentiful than for many years, will be Ja
a rare bird on November 30, according ad
to present indications. Reports to the the
department of agriculture hint that M
with the fesive gobbler bringing 35 is
cents a pound now the scarcity which ily
is expected to be more pronounced as me
Thanksgiving Day approaches closer va
may result in a jump to 40 or 45 cents liN
a pound.
Government statistical experts who pl1
have followed the upward trend of its
food prices say that the scale of prices L,
for all table necessities has mounted fit
to such heights that only the pluto- re
cratic class may view the big day of be
feasting with financial complacency. ea
Besides turkey, practically all del- tu
icacies on the Thanksgiving menu will
cost 40 to 50 per cent more than was
paid for them a year ago.
LAWYER IN MOURNING ho
OVER WILSON VICTORY re
SBe
International News Service. hi
Memphis, Tenn., Nov. 21.-Charles m
H. King, a prominent Memphis attor- as
ney and republican, is paying an elec- fo
tion bet by sitting in an office decorat- th
ed with crepe and ether paraphernalia e.
suggestive of a house of death. King a!
bet a friend Hughes would be elected. m
The state was permission by the loser ti
to let his office be decorated in any ki
way the winner might choose. His z(
friend decorated his office in mourn- a
ing. jc
BIG DOUBLE BILL AT THE in
AUDITORIUM NEXT WEEK tl
In connection with the R. L. Russell w
Show which comes to the Auditorium w
for a week's engagement commencing j(
Tuesday night there will be the reg- tl
ular picture program including three ci
feature plays. r<
Wednesday, Nov. 29th, Mollie King ti
and Arthur Ashley will appear in 13
"The Summer Girl," a farce comedy. p
Thanksgiving night C. Aubrey Smith t]
will star in a film production of Wil- tl
liam J. Locke's famous novel "Jaffery" n
a story which combines adventure, hu
mor and tragedy. C
Friday, Dec. 1st, Carlyle Blackwell is
and Muriel Ostriche will present an u
unusually pretty love drama "Sally a
in Our Alley." a
The R. L. Russell Show announce
ment of which will be found in an- F
other column, cdmbine$ high class
vaudeville and specialties featuring
the famous Martini.
Theprices for the week will be, chil- 5
dren 10c and adults 20c. c
t
COME TO THE MISSION.
SRev. Father Ferret, rector of the c
Catholic church in Welsh, is glad to
Fannounce that a mission will be con
I ducted in his church by Rev. Father
SA. Hochard, a Redemptionist of Newi
Orleans, and a gifted orator, speak
Sing English, French and German.
The mission is to open Dec. 8th and
contipue u)ltil Dee. 17th. Morning
Sservices at 7:30 and 9:00 a.m. even
ing services at 7:30 p.m. Sermons in
SFrench and English.
SAll of the Catholic population of
Sthisj ipqighb*thood us earnestly re
quested to attend the services every
Sday, from the 'very beginning. Be
I sides, all Christians of any denomina
Stion, who enjoy a forceful assertion
Sof the fundamental principles of
Christianity, are cordially invited.
SAny unprejudiced inquirers wishing
for unbiased information about the
tenets and moral standards of Cath
olic church are welcome to avail
themselves of this opportunity.
THE LEON GILSON PLAYERS.
The Leon Gilson Players, featuring
Miss Blanche Hazleton, finished a very
successful three nights engagement at
the Auditorium here with a packed
house on Saturday night. In spite of
the chill weather the attendance greet
ing these pleasing entertainers, fair on
the first night, nearly doubled each
succeeding performance.
The selections from the company's
repertoire shown here "Barriers Burn.
ed Away," "The Broken Rosary" and
"ABachelor's Honeymoon," were all
high class plays and were exceedingly
Swell rendered, every member of the
troupe being an artist virtually an
all star cast. The prices, 10, 20 and
30 cents were for shows such as the
Saverage road show stopping' here
charges from s50e. to $1.50.
Mr. Gilson, the manager, has an
nouanced that the company hopes to
return to Welsh during the month of
SJanuary, offering an entirely new bill
ing. He remarked that they were
very favorably impressed with Welsh,
the friendlIness of the Welsh peopie
CALSASIEU LUBIIIER MEN
INCREASE MEN'S WAGES
Employes of the Hodge Fence
Company of Lake Charles will re- o
ceive an advance in pay, beginning di
January 1, of twenty per cent, the p
advance affecting all employes except g
those in office work. "This advance,"I d
Mr. Rock, president of the company V.
is quoted as saying, "comes voluntar
ily from the owners, and is due the ti
men in our service because of the ad
vance in everything necessary to their
living."
The Long-Bell Company has also
placed notice of an increase in pay of
its forces in all of its ten lumber mills.
Lake Charles is considerably bene- e
fitcd by this advance, and with the h
renewal of full time, which has not 1
been in force for some time, the wage t`
earners there are anticipating a re
turn of the good days once enjoyed. c
I
MISFORTUNE FOLLOWS HIM.
Thinking to evade the spell which
has haunted his every action since the
re-election of President Wilson, Dave n
Bottorff set out with his family in C
his Ford car at three o'clock Sunday t
morning, bound for Port Arthur, Tex- r
as, where he hoped to hide his chagrin f
for the day at least in the density of
the Texas sea port, but even at that 8
early hour fate was on Dave's trail, b
and soon the chill damp of the early a
morning had penetrated the flesh un- 0
til members of the family freely ac- 2
knowledged that they were nearly fro- t
zen to death. This was the first of
a series of evils haunting their entire
journey. The heavy fog obstructed
the view ahead and directly they ran
into a team and wagon, killing one of
the horses, so we are informed, and on
reaching the Texas line Mr. Bottorff
1 was arrested for this offense, but later
was freed and allowed to continue the
journey. Then tire trouble started, s
three blowouts following in rapid suc
cession. Later thy missed the cor
rect road and were compelled to back
track considerable distance, but final
i ly arrived at their destination. We
presume that on arriving in Port Ar
i thur Mr. Bottorff was in somewhat
the same spirits that he was on the
night of the general election when
- 2arly reports made it seem that Mr.
Charles Hughes had been elected pres
1 ident of the United States. They tell
i us that an ill omen is sure to follow
'a man, no matter what his political
affiliations.
- PARENTS SHOW GREAT
s INTEREST IN CLUB WORK
The demonstration agent in Rapides
- parish reports that he is much en
couraged at the interest in club work
manifested by the adults. He says
that a number of men have asked to
have their boys enrolled in the pig
e clubs, stating that they would give the
o boys every assistance and) provide
.them with registered pigs.
T HE Federal Farm Loan Act was passed by the "
House of Representatives and the United States
Senate June 27th and 28th, 1916, respectively, and
approved by the President July 17. The purposes of the Act are to pro
vide capital for agricultural development, to create standard forms of in
vestment based upon farm mortgage, to equalize rates of interest upon,.
farm loans, to furnish a market for United States bonds, to create govern
ment depositories and financial agents for the United States and for other
purposes. The Act is administered by the Federal Farm Loan Board con
sisting of five members, including the secretary of the Treasury and four'
members to be appointed by the President, and provides for the organiza
tion of Federal Land Banks, National Farm Loan associations and joint
stock Land Banks.
This bank has prepared for free distridution, a brief synopsis of the
Act which undertakes to deal only with the national farm loan association,
that organization being the instrumentality through which the farmer may
borrow, except in instances when the applicant desires to borrow in excess
of $10,000, in which case application to the joint stock land bank serving
the district may be made.
The system will soon be in operation to the point where the farmer may
take advantage of the facilities offered by the Act and to assist in putting
its provisions into effect in Southwest Louisiana, this bank offers its ser
vices without compensation and would be pleased to receive inquiries by
personal interview or correspondence from those interested.
CaaIie \TNaI1o1a BIank
Of Southwest Louisiana
Capf&ta and Surplls $750,00.
JENNINGS LAKE CHARLES LAKE ARTHUR
K1IDER WELSH OAKDALE
DEUINO Y 1 VINTON SULPHUR '' " ._ ^ a; I ý:
".;d" . ^:i. '1 r, ,a ' ,.z ;r"' .. eL "f:d :r.. !ý< .:''+ ; 3°ýv.' ý,'', _
"' '+s,- < ý;.Vn=; 4.. 'r:.. ., , +.
ROBERT L. RUSSELL SHOW
HERE NEXT WEEK
The Robert L. Russell Show will I
open a week's engagement at the Au
ditorium in Welsh next Tuesday night, a
plresentin!: a complete change of pro
gram e\'t'y nigh pliaying tabloid t
dramas,"farce comedies and featuring t
vaudeville.
Among the special features are Mar. i
tini, world's famous Legm:ania work.
or. Mr. Martini worked with Fatty t
Arhuckle in Keystonei Comedies last i
inter. at.d his work alone is said to i
i h well worth the price of admission.
The compa:nyv csists of seven peo
ple, all clever and versatile perform- 1
ers. The show is clean and comes I
highly recommended from Crowley
where they have been playing the past
two weeks.
This performance will he given in
connection with the regular picture
program.
HIGH SCHOOL ANNONC('EMEN''S
The excursion to the salt mine could
not be run on account of lack of suffi
cient number from Welsh wishing to
take the trip. A party of fifty was
required from Welsh. About twenty
five agree(d to take the trip.
Notice was given the school chil
dren on Friday that an attempt would
be made to run the excursion on Sat
urday, Nov. 25th. We had to report
our exact number on Tuesday, Nov.
21st at noon. The trip was adver
tised as widely as possible by the
school children.
On Thanksgiving day the Welsh
high school lboys hasket ball team
will play the Jennings team on the
home court. Both teams are expect
ing a lively game. We hope to have
a good attendance and promise a full
value for the twenty-five cents admis
sion.
The school children will give a free
program at 2:45 p. m. on Friday after
Thanksgiving. This program may be
given on the school grounds. Definite
announcement will be made to the
pupils later. Everyone is invited to
attend. ARNOLD L. PEARCE.
NATIONAL FARM AND LIVE
STOCK SHOW A SUCCESS
The National Farm and Live Stock
r Show closed on the 19th after nine
I days of complete success and demon
strated that only by this character of
fair can New Orleans hope to build up
to the big propositions attempted sev
eral times before.
a SUES SALOON KEEPER
FOR LOST HUSBAND
k International News Service.
a Savannah, Ill., Nov. 22.-Louise
D Schreiner has brought suit against
five saloonkeepers for $5,000 each,
e charging they made her husband a
e drunkard and so forced her to get a
divorce.
SOCIETY SCHOOLGIRLS
TO BE OWN MONITORS
International News Service.
Denver, Colo., Nov. 22.-Imagine
a school girl "snitching" on herself!
It takes some stretch of the imagina
tion, but then it is really being done
these dlays. The girls of the Wolcott
s;chool. patronized by the most fash
ionable families of the west, have
adopted the "snitching system," and
they term it "student government.'5'
It has just gone into effect and is ex
pectel to improve the discipline of the
ittlc children of the rich.
The idea originated with Miss
Phyllis Campion, daughter of John
F. Campion, multi-millionaire mining
man who died recently, and Miss Ro
salie Stearns, daughter of T. B.
Stearns, president of the Denver
Chamber of Commerce.
When it was suggested to Dr. J. D.
S. Riggs, president of the school, he
lost no time in adopting it.
"Student government," will lift
many burdens from the shoulders of
the teachers, giving the student body
authority to inflict punishment on
those who violate any of the rules of
the system.
In the senior department a young
woman is compelled to make it known
to the "consular board" of thl sys
tem when she has neglected to tidy
her books or in any other ways has
violated the rules.
181,000,000 BUSHELS
BLACK RUST WHEAT LOSS
International News Service.
Washington, Nov. 22.-Black rust
caused wheat growers this year a loss
of 181,000,000 bushels and was re
sponsible for the lowest yield per acre
of spring wheat ever recorded by the
Idepartment of agriculture.
In Minnesota the damage was equiv
alent to 10.8 bushels per acre, repre
senting a loss of $41,000,000 upon the
basis of $1 per bushel. In North Da
kota the damage amounted to 18.1
bushels per acre or an estimated loss
of $92,000,000. Nebraska farmers suf
fered a loss of $2,000,000. South Da
kota growers lost $44,000,000.
SERVIAN CAPITAL ESTAB
LISHED AT MONASTIR
By Telegraph to Times-Record.
Geneva, Nov. 21.-A proclamation
e has been read to the Servian army
announcing that Monastir is the new
f ;apital of Servia, says a Saloniki die
p patch.
SWISS GOVERNMENT TO
SELL POTATOES
) International News Service.
Washington, Nov. 22.-Owing to the
e increased cost of food products, it Is
t learned here, the Swiss authorities
_, have under way a plan to supply all
a families that have an income of less
a than 3,000 francs ($579) a yar with
potatoes at a reduced price.
