v«
0-s
"'V'-
VOL. 28 NO. 37
AND. SWANBERG IS INDICTED
IS COMMISSIONER IN CASS COUN
TY—WAS FORMERLY OF
LITTLE FALLS
Bemidji Pioaeer: L. P. By
lire of
Walker, former county auditor of Cass
county, was indicted b-"- the grand
jury in a joint indictment wit a A. J
Swanberg, the county commissioner of
the Cass Lake district, on a charge
of unlawful interest in a contract for
the construction of rural highway No.
45.
The indictments were returned yes
terday.
The men were arraigned yesterday,
Judge Marshall A. Spooner, of Bemid
ji, appearing for Byhre.
As a result of the recent investiga
tion of the affairs of Cass county sev
eral indictments were returned against
county officials.
A. W. Moulster, engineer, was in
dicted on a charge of padding the sal
-nries of his assistants. The assistants
were appointed by him.
Fred Moulster, county commission
er of the Pine River district, was in
dicted on a charge of misappropriat
ing county founds.
JEFFERSON HIGHWAY MEETING
AT ST. PAUL
•County committees of the Jefferson
Highway association will meet in St.
Paul today for the purpose of talking
over matters concerning the great
''Pine to Palm" highway and to elect
state officers for the ensuing year.
Each county through which the high
way passes is entitled to send seven
delegates to the meeting and an effort
will be made to have a full representa
tion from Morrison county. J. Mar
tin,. George Kiewel, L. V. Tanner and
B. B. Millard of this city Andiew Ee
rum of Randall and C. W. Bouck and
A. A. Fitch of Royalton compose the
committee from this county and all are
expected to attend. Voting by proxy
will not be permitted at tht meeting.
A vice president and three state di
rectors will be elected. J. H. Beek is
sow serving as vice president for this
state and Henry Orme of St. Paul, Her
man Roe of Northfield and Thomas F.
Cashman of Owatonna are the direct
ors. They were appointed at the meet
ing of the National association at New
Orleans a year ago.
FIVE PURE BREDS BRING $1,000
J. It. Metcalf of Little Falls town,
one of the: leading breeders of pure
bred stock in this section of the state,
has just disposed of fire pure fred
Red Polled cattle, three cows, a heifer
calf and a bull, to Charles A. Weyer
haeuser of this city... The price paid
for the fve animals was $1,000, or an
average of
l$200
apiece. Mr. Weyer­
haeuser, in speaking of the stock
which he just purchased, stated that
Mr. Metealf had a remarkably uniform
herd and he congratulated him for
bringing such splendid stock into this
part of the country. The stock will
be put on the Weyerhaueser farm near
Lake Alexander in the spring.
APPLY FOR INCREASE IN AID
County Attorney C. Rosenmeier,
County Engineer A. J. Fenn and An
drew Herum, chairman of the board of
oounty commissioners, were in St. Paul
the latter part of last week, where
they appeared before the state high
way commission and made application
for an increase in the federal and state
aid for the road and bridge fund in
this county. The board will meet
either the latter part of this month or
the first of next month when he appli
caion will be considered.
DROSSY STORE AT EAST GRAND
FORES ROBBED
Frank Drosky's clothing store at
East Grand Forks was entered by burg
lars Monday night and $200 in cur
veaey aa4 checks taken, according to
information received here. Mr. Drosky
formerly lived here. He is the son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. Drosky of Fourth
street southwest, two of the oldest
people in Little Falls.
SARGABOS-McDONALD CASE TO
BE FINISHED AT ST. CLOUD
The ease of J. Bargabos vs. Jos. Mc
Donald, which occupied so much time
at the special term of district court
here recently, will be finished before
Judge Roeser at St. Cloud this week
,beginning this morning. County At
torney C. Rosemeier, who is an attor
ney in the case, will go down there
this morning.
TBEEDHEM CLUB TO GIVE PRO
GRAM
The Freedhem social club will »ive a
Thanksgiving program at the club hall
next Wednesday evening. N. N. Berg
-faeim of this -city will address the club
on the new farm loan act.
Mrs. Ed. Ledoux left yesterday for
Blbow Lake, after a visit with her
parents here. Her brother, Walter
Bastien, accompanied her for a visit.
Mr. and Mrs. Ledoux recently moved
to Elbow Lake from Hibbing, where
Mr. Ledoux will conuuct a confec
tionery store.
At the high school this winter there
will be eight basketball teams. Coach
Liljedahl is arranging a schedule of
games to be played by them. There
is a large amount of good material
for basketball teams at the high
-this year and some very interesting
•games may be looked for.
H. C. Erickson, who was first teller
-at the First National bank of this city
-About two years ago, passed away at
Hannah, N. D., Friday, according to
word received here. Death was due
t# tuberculosis, from which he had
differed for some time. After leaving
here Mr. Erickson was for a time em
ftoyeS at 8tarbuck, later going to
"Montana to take up a claim. He was
a member of the Odd Fellows lodge of
this city. The remains were taken to
fltarbuck and the funeral was held
liere yesterday. A wife and two chil
dren survive him.
WATER POWER COMPANY TURNS
DOWN RATES ASKED FOR IN
PETITIONS
In reply to the light rate petitions
tions to the company with the request
that an answer be made at the next
meeting, which was held last night.
The petitions asked for a maximum
rate of 6 cents per kilowatt for the
first thirty hours, 5 cents for the next
thirty hours and 2 cents lor all over
that amount. They also asked that the
minimum amount of bills he made 50
cents, instead of $1.00.
Following is the company's answer
to the petitions:
Nov. 20, 1916.
Mr. Victor Schallern, City Clerk,
City.
Dear Sir: Your letter of the 18th
inst., is received and carefully noted.
The rates as reported to the council
from the committee having this matter
in hand show a cut in our present rev-
e»ue
of 9^j?er cent on all commercial nes3
A
users and 15 per cent on all residence
users.
I wish it. were possible to make a
rate so that each individual customer
would secure the above percentage of
reduction but in arriving at uniform
rates for the residence and commercial
users it is a physical impossibility to
do anything else than make a rate
where the net results or general aver
age is reduced and this is what was
evidently the aim of the committee
time and we are obliged to turn down!
the rates petitioned for as mentioned
in your letter
Yours very truly,
—T. C. Gordon,
General Manager.
As shown in an article in the Herald
of Oct. 27, however, the percentage of
OVER 300 BIG GAME LICENSES IS
SUED
over three hundred licenses. Forty
one licenses have been issued the past
week, to the following persons:
Randall—Dewey Jones, G. W. Miller,
B. W. Bentler, Harry Strand, W. Mich
elem, Harry Jones.
eridge, John B. Olsoi, E. S. Tanner.
Ft. Ripley—Joe Plant, H. C. Ander-
Fiert—J. M.
en, 1'eter Gruesdorski. Philip Grues
dorski, Joseph James, Peter T. Miller,
Alva Martin, Fred J. Sou
rue, Chas. H.
Sanborn.
Royalton—Ed. Lakin, J. P. Leigh,
F. G. Noggle, Anton J. Osell.
Cushing—Chas. Hawkinson.
Flensburg—M. Wojciechowski.
Lincoln—Clarence Aleshire.
Swanville—P. A. Bane.
son of Minneapolis and Grand Forks.
as he formerly resided here.
Jay J. Berkin has arranged for a
Billiard tournament at his billiard hall
next week.
8.
Mon
be closed on Wednesday evenings here'
after. The custom.
Mrs. Tim Collen of Minneapolis Sus
tained a compound fracture of her
left arm Saturday, when she fell on
the doorsteps at her home. Mrs. Col
len is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
C. W. Kemp of Little Elk.
Pat Lauermann, Slow Latters, Ju
lius Nelson and Leo
TOTAL TAX 51 MILLS, 1 MILL LESS
THAN LAST YEAR—VALUA
TION $1,681,585
decrease in the aggregate amount paid contribute out of our abundant means
to the company as between the drop
The total tax rate for the city of
ra
our
ir 4. -11 disquiet upon the struggles and suffer
ings of the nations at war, of the peo
ples upon whom war has brought dis-
escape on their part. We cannot think
of our own happiness without think
ing of their pitiful distress.
Appoints Day
"Now, therefore, I, WoodrOw Wil
son, president of the United States of
America, do appoint Thursday, the
oi na-
30th 0
and the results are as mentioned, tional thanksgiving and prayer, -na
above.
141st.
Little Palls—Albert Houde, Ed. Lud
I wig, Wilbert Remus, D. Ro-heleau, J. H-Cro.e formerly of Randall and
Minor Myrand, Frank Janski, fceo.
W
*ecentl7
wcek
a?f
.on, r»e. 3, fan! Andean, ,t, 3, Wm., "TUTS
SAM CLARK, EDITOR OF JIM JAM
JEMS, MA-p/PTPfl
Sam Clark of Bismarck, N. D., editor Minneapolis. He also leaves several
of Jim Jam Jems, was married Tues- One of these, P. R. Crose,
day at Chicago to Miss Claire Ander- ,18,S,resj Vi/'
1
Mr. Clark is known to local people
a a a a a a a
LITTLE FALLS, MORRISON COUNTY, MINNESOTA
SAY IH It pet™ ffiOE 1916 tnv THE RAIE IS UIWEIC. lUSSTJt.,M WTO MSlur PAIHICBJa SCHOO. Mil
thoughts dwell with painful
November, as a day
urge
A reduction of 9^j per cent on our their several places of worship on
commercial customers and 15 per cent that day to render thanks to Almighty
on residence customers is all that we (jofl for the blessings of peace and
(can possibly consider at the present
unbr
Bt0
to
and advise the people to resort
okcn prosperitv which He has fce-
wed upon our beloved country 4n
such unstinted measures.
"And I also urge and suggest our
duty, in this, our day of peace' and
abundance, to think in deep sympathy
of the stricken peoples of the world,
upon whom the curse end terror of
war has fallen so pitilessly, and to
he relief of their sufferings.
system ana the proposed rate is for "Our people could in no better way
residence lighting 9.8 per cent and not
stow
15 per cent, and for the commercial present struggle of the nations .thw*.
8% per cent instead of 9^.„. Five light 'fty contributing out of 4heir «MT«&
patrons take up all but 3 per cient of
the 8% per cent, and eight more pa
trons take up the balance of decrease,
leaving it to the rest of the consumers
to offset the raises and decreases.
Smce the big game season opened ^p^dence of the United States the
the county auditor here has issued
their real attitude toward the
ance to the relief of the suffering
which war has brought.
"In witness whereof, I have here
unto set my hand and caused the seal
of the United States to be affixed.
"Done at the City oi Washington
this 16th day of November, in the
year of our Lord 1916, and of the in-
"—Woodrow Wilson.
"By the president:
"—Robert Lansing,
"Secretary of State.''
H.
cROSE DEAD
this
"7'
Jones, Ernest Norberg, Chas. Tidd, Ir- **. ^^nn®aP0 from peritonitis,
vin Beveridge, F. Ryberg, F. C. Bev-,for ,which
passed away Fn-
had
®n operation there a
Previous-
He was 61
years
jet the funeral, returning Tuesday.
New scenerv has been purchased for
the high school stage, and it will be North Dakota, will attend the Equity
1
Mrs. Geo. Wesfi Christie of Red elected governor of North Dakota by
Lake Falls is in the city for a visit the organized farmers of that state
with relatives. Her father, Congress- and many Minnesota farmers will take
man Chas. A. Lindbergh, leaves today
for Washington, D. C., and she will -will have to say on this occasion. It
accompany him as far as Minneapolis, jg expected that Mr. Frazier will face
haB
been to dis­
continue having tne stores open on
Wednesday evenings after she saw
mill shuts, down.
of
when he and Mr. Fitch of Randall Tur
chased the clothing store on First
street southeast. They recently dis
posed of the store to the present own
er. Soon afterward Mr. Crose was
taken ill and he went to Minneapolis
for treatment.
He is survived by a wife and. six
children, Mrs. H. M. Dally, Randall,
Mrs. John Fitch, Randall, Mrs. H.
N
1_1
A
4»
41
,The f»n«al was held at Algeria.,
the former home of
th-e
deceased, Sun-
day. P. R. Crose was in attendance
YIA fnnnvel TiiAailav
GOVERNOR-ELECT WILL ADDRESS
EQUITY GRAIN AND LIVE
STOCK GROWERS
which will be presented on December! cember 5 and will deliver an address
Lynn J. Frazier, governor-elect of
used for the first time in the Dramatic Grain and Livestock Growers' conven- Coffrain, a Brainerd business man,
club play, "The Arrival of Kitty," tion and celebrate at St. Paul on De- jjQ
on the afternoon of that. day. Mr.
Frazier is the farmer that has been
a
keen interest in every thing that he
of th^atore, of tM, nty.wfll JITS'SAE
est shown on
farmers in the
schools in
expected back from Shovel Lake to-! ^ernoon at 3 o'clock to arrange a
handed. ment of officials, etc.
work of thei non-parti-
san league which elected Mr. Frazier,
SCHEDULE TOMORBO».
Representatives of all the
deer apiece bnt the others, unless they season and to discuss matters such aa ^jL "J exhaustion When it reached
got any yesterday^ will return empty] eligibility
for
i, the
CAR HITS SNOWDRIFT UPSETTING
IT- -MR. MASSY HURT, BUT
NOT SERIOUSLY
Gerald W. Massy, Jr., of Gr°at Falls,
stated that the rate submitted by the p«or the running expenses of the city Falls Friday. eral recitations and musical numbers. club of this city. The play will be re
majority committee recently is all that the city dads levied only 14.7 mills, the Mr. Massy, who has bean in the in- A matinee will also be given on Sun- jpeated tomorrow evening and an af
it can possibly consider at the present county levy is 9.8 mills and the state surance business at Great Fa!Js for the day afternoon, Nov. 26, at 3 'clock. ternoon matinee will also be given to
time and that it is obliged to turn ievy is only 3.7 mills, out the levy past two months, was out on a business Following is the program and the morrow. Next Tuesday evening the
down the rates petitioned for. City for "the Independent school district is trip in company with another insur- cast: !entire cast will go*to Pierz to stage
Clerk Schallera received a letter to iarger than usual, being 22.8 mills, ance man when the accident occurred. Selection Orchestra the play for the benefit of the Catholic
this effect the first of the week. Last year the city rate was 15.3 mills, His Companion was driving the car and. Recitation, "Thanksgiving Eve"... church there.
The petitions, four in number, one the state rate 4.15 mills, the county the accident was caused by the car) Helen Joswiak Forty local people appear in the play,
from each ward, which were signed by
over two hundred light users in the district rate 21.8 mills. that it was upset. Mr. Massy sustained 1st and 2d Grade Girls in a gypsy camp and partly in the home
city, were presented at the meeting of The assessed valuation of this city a fracture of some bone near the spin-. Selection Orchestra of an English country gentleman. Mr.
the council Thursday evening of last this year is $1,681,585, as compared al column and received other minor A Thanksgiving Lesson Dodge takes the leading part, that of
week. The council leferred the peti- ith $1,671,958 for last year. .injuries. He was taken to the Deacon-J Characters Gypsy Rob. The members of the cast
jness hospital at Great Falls for treat-1 Jennie Browning, who learned the ihave been practicing diligently for the
"PROCLAMATION BY PRESIDENT ment. His companion was thrown Lesson Louise Fueger past two weeks and have their parts
Here follows the president's procla-jand that hp would be out of t-e hos- Johnny Bumpus, a cripple
mation: pital in a couple of days, although it
"It long has been the custom of might take several weeks for the
people to turn, in the fruitful fractured bone to heal
our
autumn of the year, in praise and
thanksgiving to Almighty God for
His many blessings and mercies to us
and the nation.
"The year that has elapsed since
we last observed our day of Thanks
giving, has been rich in blessings to
us as a people, but the whole face of
the world has been darkened by war.
In the midst of our peace and happi-
COME AND GONE
SL3i"
aster without choice or possibility of day from St. Paul, where she spent
—x ttt- j. severai days at the home' of a son.
Mrs. Anthony A. Kerich and little
tbe Clty Ttte8day Md
Mrs. J. H. Newman went to St.
Cloud Wednesday for a short visit
with relatives.
Mrs. H. A. Rider returned We-dnes-
ed as stenographer in this city, spent
Sunday at her nome in Brainerd.
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Weber and Mr.
and Mrs. Henry Peterson of Brainerd
visited at the Martin Kruger home
here Sunday.
Miss Nellie Hughes returned Tues
day from a visit with friends at
Brainerd, Crosby, Ironton and Deer
wood. She was gone two weeks.
Minneapolis. They accompanied
A. Rosenmeier, the former's mother,
to' Minneapolis, oit her way to her
home in Bird Island.
Mrs. S. C. Severson of Janesville is
here for a visit with her daughter,
Mrs. Ross Jackson Dunphy.
Mrs. Geo. W. Kaye oi t~*s city is
in St. Cloud this week for a visit with
relatives.
J. H. Russell of Royalton transact
ed business in this city yesterday.
S. R. Wilcox, who WLS principal of
hign school here three years ago,
was in the city on business Saturday,
Sunday and Monday. He is now trav
eling for the Keystone Stereoptican
company.
T. O. Berg made a business trin to
Brainerd yesterday.
Miss Alma Gendron is down from
Thief River Falls for a visit with her
parents.
Mrs. E. J. Love joy and little son re
turned to their home in Grank Forks,
H. Vernon.
Mrs. Albert Norman and son and
Mrs. J. R. Trettel and daughter Car
oline left yesterday for a visit with
relatives at Gilman.
Jos. A. Schmid returned Wednesday
Luella Roche. The wedding took place
Tuesday morning at 9 o'clock.
Moore, Willmar, L. and Glen Crose of xn« ing the Development association meet
Spencer, Iowa, and Harold Crose of: the high school^ together with their
The class in animal husbandry at
a IAA aAlMVOl A .o vanit Dirfl/1 tho
Sam LaFond form Tuesday, where
they practiced stock judging, etc.
a
Members of Hose company No. 4 had
feed
a
wa8
more
thia city Fridav
fw)m
I«_J. A N A TTT 1 ... ..
tary of that organization, were guests
of honor at the lunch.
A c'ontinual search for the body of
browned in Lake George,
t|,an t#r0 months ago, has thus far
^een £rujtiess, according to the Brain
erd papers. The task will not be giv
en up, however, as the searchers are
confident of locating the body soon.
J. C. Joslin of Grove City, Pa., man
ager of a creamery at that place and
also dairy manufacturing specialist in
the U. S. department of agriculture,
cnere is so mucn »ier- ^rother, Verne E. Joslin of I fore going to Inkster, N. D.f
the part of Minnesota
jjinneapoHs, where he attended I
National Bu
governor of North Dakota. Every .:OT. iHillmer, both of this citv. were united
Minnesota, South Dakota and Monta-j jin the holy bonds of matrimony Tues
na farmer should turn out and hear iOBt on a huntin? trio
Governor-elect Frazier's address onJin^northern part of tWs founty fan Lutheran church, Rev. F. J. Oeh
occasion. about three weeks ago, a Llewellyn lert officiating. .....
setter doe belonging to A M. McEwen The bride waa attended by Miss An-
fv-VCj- .„the way home from here, a distance of bride,
this district will meet at cn {i«a Til* inr mt hnr. I Mr.
McDonala are the high school in this city tomorrow v_. "Rnhane of" Walker "for' Minneapolis, where
bll11
athletics fxhanstton wi^en 1 ea
FUPII3 OF PAROCHIAL SCHOOL
TO GIVE ENTERTAINMENT
NOV. 26 AND 27
te 11.35 and the Independent school striking a snow drift, with the result What We Should Be Thankful For.. 'the scenes of which are staged partly
Washington, Nov. 17.—President. clear of the car and escaped uninjured. Mrs. Browning, her mother jwell learned.
Wilson, by proclamation today for.-.| His father here received several tele-1 Bernadine Vertin
mally designated Thursday, Nov. 30,. -grams Tuesday night, stating that the Mr. Browning, her father
as Thanksgiving day. injuries were not of a serious nature Wilfred Wetzel
daughter Lorraine of Minneapolis ar-jNed Winter, his secretary
rived Wednesday for an extended visit Leonard Simonet
with relatives in this city. |Bert Spriggins, Tommy's cousin
ern part of the state. She brought Thanksgiving Hymn.. .3d & 4th Grades
back a 70-pound fawn. Selection Orchestra
Mr. end Mrs. C. Rosenmeier return-
Next Monday evening, at the paro-
L. O. Wessel made a business trip -o Susie Blair Helen Adams Martindale Flaine Ruth
the twin cities the first of the week. !^rg°rie Kennedy ..Marie L. Keough
H. J. Docken of Buckman was Selection Orchestra: Louis MeNairr
^1**7 °WMVbUSir+l8
V1nSit W®dnfsd^- GM^lerTVo!vtJ^2d Gr^riS
Editor Wilke of the Grey Eagle Ga- WhoMade Thanksgiving 3d Grade,
Tommy's Thanksgiving Party
A comedy in two acts,
are the characters.
party Theodore Miller
Mrs. Spriggins, his mother
Helen Miller
Miss Mabel Graham, who is employ- ..... ril Moeglein
Miss Bessie Tomelty visited rela-1His fnend ............ William Krzan,
tives and fnends Minneapolis the .Susie Spriggins, Tommy's sister....
ed yes"terday*"from"a'7hort"visit~*at Bociation, to be held at Bemidji Thurs
Minneapolis. They accompanied Mrs.
oo -v,., George Washington Jones, a colored Bartee Mrs. John Cairns, Ann Auyer,
boy Lester I/aFond Larson, Margaret Jones, Hele*
Hans Pimpledorfer, a German chore
N. D., yesterday, after a ™it at tie opportunity for discuMion of road Wanderere Weleome
home of Mr«. Lovcioy'B brother, A. and road law« will draw _out Welcome, Wanderer!!, wel«ojne.„.
Vernon a large number of people, and various'
din™ Ms'bTottlrfEd^hmidJto Miss are expected^ to be shown by the chil- Business
in
1
O'
Saturday evening. Chief Emder, F. W. quietly married at the home of the cember 2 and the defendant was re
Lyon, president of the Firemen's Relief bride's parents on Seventh street leased under $100 bonds.
association and A. A. Fueger. seere- northeast Wednesday at 12 noon, Rev.! Steffens is charged with selling im-
FRED
wTllikm'Miller
Joe Sanders, a newsboy
b°y Aloysius Kerich,Thelm'a
latter part of last week. Lucille Lepinski GWS7 Men St Court
Mrs. M. Bullard returned Wednes-iMary Jane Sprocket.. .Adelaide^ Johns
day from a hunting trip to the north- Nora McCarty_. Helen Herman
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
MEETING
The seventh annual meeting of the
Northern Minnesota Development as-
and
Friday, December 7 and 8,
will be a good roads meeting. Among later,
the.speakers on the program axe §cn
ator R. C. Dunn of Princeton who will
speak on "Minnesota's Road Laws,"j®
Public Highways," and a representa
tive to be sent to Bemidji by the office
of Public roads at Washington.
TONIGHT AND TOMORROW VOSSKt
BY LOCAX. TALENT, FOfcSliU-*''*
SICAL ART CL1
Following are the cast, choruses,
synopsis and musical program:
Cast and Choruses
!Meg'
an
W llllalQ VA„old
II
li: Marto, Meg's husband. .Inger Johnson
•oi." j'V'w *rMn Sinfo, in love with Zara.Frank Gannon
Nellie McGuire Genevieve Raster •Gypsy
Eob'
in
Annie Mason ...WW SeSa Koflosky £e°t**
1
Following
Tommy Spriggins, originator of tie |Sir
MacCorkle, a song publisher of Lon
don Steven Bimonet
Gypsies and Colonial Girls
The meeting is expected to attract an
unusually large number of Northern J1'® Just L-O-V-E.. Constance and Rob
Minnesota development enthusiasts. .Take Him From My Sight......Chfrrns
dren. Exhibits of potatoes and corn!
will also be made by adult growers, the Advertising committee
Bemidji merchants having offered a
long list of prizes. On the day follow-
farmers' institute will be held
.. —, J.
pected to gather at Bemidji.
MARRIED
Ira L. Muir of Inkster, N. D., and
the Seventh street hose house Miss Freda Lange of this citv were The hearing was continued until
After the ceremony a wedding din-
ner was served to a-few relatives and
immediate friends.
The only out-of-town guests were
the groom's parents from Inkster.
graduate of the local business college
and for some time was employed as
stenographer at Inskter, N. D.
came'up here they will make their home,
ttermakeM» conven- 5eL®Bf1_.and.i
da7
nearly 160 miles. The doe was bor- Mr. and Mrs, DeLong have gone to
ting trip'and he lost the dog the their home,
1 1
MiM
Fri.ed5
afternoon at 1 o'clock at the Ger-
rf Duruth retu^^^^^ home the latter na Kniep of this city and "the groom drew Lundgren of Green Pw^rie, M-
they will' make
Mrs. D. Anker, Genevieve Kleber,
Leona Gordon, Madeline Simonet, Irene
Hall, Alma Longley, Marie Gannon,
jElvi a Ruth
Bartee Eoy
M?-5
J-t*
CTPS*ltOVa"ATTH£VlSTO»
Local talent will this evening appear
gYPSy woman.Phyllis May
A N
-P lit
A AAMH
Zara, belle of the camp. .Leona Gordon
reality
Lord Archiba
Gilbert
id "craven (do-cher-no)
Si George' Martindale, an English
countr
gentleman.. Joseph M?eglein
Captain Jerome, in love with Nina..
WW ... T.t...Ernest
Toby
T}tOA/lATA \IT lift*
Ly0nS'
J. Carlson
a
"ocietT XTSkiir
MO^'jOing, Mrs. Clyde
Smith Brtk
Jnen BessieBrannem
Brown
Tim Meaker, president of the boot- GvPSy Children
0 0
E a he a a oh
char]otte Hall
r€nce Kerich
Burton, l2w-,aoa
Donald Brown.
gtevPn simonet
nova Tomeltv
Albert Bnke, Ca-
Caiisle Palmer, Clyde
T^mer, Joseph A. Sehmid,
Arnold Herold, Louis Wright, Petrus
Liljedahl.
Synopsis
Act I—Gypsy camp. Morning.
Act II—Sir George Martindale
Js
res­
idence. Two weeks later.
Act III—Same as Act H. Two years
Musical Program
Act
awn
Senator John H. Baldwin of Frazee, 'A Gypsy's Life .Rob and ehorns
whose subject is "Prison Labor on Long, Long Ago.......Meg and ehoras
Head Over Heels in Love.
Other speakers on the program an
nounced by Secretary George D. Mc
Carthy of Duluth are Richard R. Price,
director of the general extension di
vision of the state university M. F..
Jamar of Duluth and John Owens of jBmd the Tresses of the Bride.
Cook. Reports will be submitted by! ..Chorus and Girts
Chairman Otto I. Bergh of the agricul-!Listen, Lady Fair. .Constance and Bo®
tural eommittee, Chairman P. H. Mc- -^T® Merry RobbeTS.............
Garry of the Amendment No. 1 com-! .Marto and_Smf•
jnitt^e and Chairman L. B. Arnold of ^'°on, Moon, Moon..Nina and Jerome
the Rural Credits committee.
Gypsy «hor«s
Zara and Sinfe
Fairyland ..Rob and children
Woodland Constanee
'Twas Here I Dreamed of You
Constance and Rob
Hunting Song.. .Sir George and chorus
Act
They Say Girls Can't Keep Seerets.
Constance and girls
Act
other matters of legislation are to be ,^8 Greet Sir Gilbert...
discussed. .........Sir George, Rob and ehorns
The roundup of the boys' and girls' jBye and Bye. Ghom
potato contest for which the associa- ..
tion has offered $300.00 in prizes will Stage director J®}111 Wilson Doago
be held in connection with the meeting Musical director. ...Miss Noella Dneles
and several hundred potato samples ^re®8 representative^. Mrs. S. B. Betta
v,m"'
Chora*
rePre8entaJj^
Mrs. F. G. Ruth, Miss Maude Smalley
MUNICIPAL COURT
w.
aHd a large number of farmers are ex- before Judge Lyon Saturday morning
Steffens of Motley was brought
by Deputy Sheriff A. A. Fueger, charg
ed with conducting an unlicensed
drinking place at Motley. V. Lock
wood of Motley made the complaint.
...
A -I IL A
T. J. Herrmann of the German Evan- toxi eating liquors in a butchersho^
gelical church officiating. The couple at Motley, which is a dry village by
was unattended. local option.
Bennie Borgan and Ted Grest were
.arrested Wednesday for stealing a ride
1
The bride was raised in Little Falls *®r® ^u^Se Lyon in Municipal eoait
and is' well known here. She is a
on an N. P. train from this city to
Staples. They will^ nave a ^hearing be-
at
Mr. and Mrs. Muir left Wednesday
for a short. honeymoon trip. They rietta Johson, Frank Booth. *nd Edna
will return here for a short visit be- M. Larson, Wm. DeLoag Frieda
^ere Hillmer, Ira L. Muir of Inkster, M.
D., and Freda Lange and to Frank
10 clock this morning..,
MARRIAGE LlCgNSgES
Marriage licenses have been issnad
the past week to J. Hanson and Hen-
Cnristler and Maybelle Chapailui.
BORN
Miss Alice Moore of Foley is visit- members of the party, Df. G- It A. Fox
ing with Miss Marie Thomas this tier* George Coont ^Nsd ^m., Beveridge,
week. .j i,' were to remain a fejr dayp
ZUROWSKI—To Mr. and Mrs. Vin
cent Zurowski, Tuesday, November 21,
a daughter.
LUNDGREN—To Mr. and Mrs. An-
F. D. LeBlane and Jofcp ^Hngksa
eame
back Tuesday froil -^abua*
where they had been huntinj^ and eadi
had a deer. They said tbat the other
V/
i''
