mm
I
ill itftttfl:
52D YEAR.
OREGON, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1910.
NUMBER 30.
PROHATF. COl'KT MATTERS.
Judge Duncan I)lpocx of Mucli Hux
In.' nl the Regular Nn-M-mhrr
Term.
Probate Judge I) wgnn v.n n very
btuy n:rn la.'t week, it being tho regu
lar November term nf the probate
court. The ciuirt disposed of the
ens ex ci ihg k fore 111 .1 with ax litll
delay ns tl e moiUs of the ram would
JuMify, and in n nay that would con
virro any one that the com I was "on
to h'.. lob," w.itrllng the Interest nf
the Willow nnil tho nrtilmn nntl ttilnnt
with n Je.iloux cno. The following
rnti'i were mrpo-jusi nil
In the matter of the rii!e nf Anna
I. ocicy, deceased, first annual settle
mtnt v.-a. lllcil, showing a Valance of
jr.T3.li
An order win made for the sale of
loud In tin esliito of Duvid W. Smith,
deceased.
In tl.e rtnle of Mosce Chimin;', n
first settlement was filed by .Snmnel
C. llrown, gtinrdlnn, who showed a
balance of Slit 0.81 an ilue hi waril.
Ktate of David Dawson, deceased,
C. 1 D.w.-oii, the executor, made 1:1
lirt ti'ttle-iicitj balance, S'i: (i 1. An
order fur salu f lands wan nlxo medc.
In the Ja. It. Cotton c.-tate, a final
tcttlcu.nnt wax iniide by Kdwniil C.
CoMon, nhnlnl.Mrator. A balance of
Jflll wax shown to be die the estate,
which wai nrdcrod distributed to the
only heir, IMward (,'. Cotton, of Skid
more. In the (leorgp I,. McNnul estate,
deceased, the estate wax discontinued
for want of nsxct.
The estate of IMward Prussmnn,
nn Incompetent, H, W. Ciimmlm,
guardian, filed hi sixth settlement;
bntnnro, ffiJM.'M.
Kstnte of John Townscnd. n minor.
Albert Mnifct. guardian, filed final
settlement, showing a balance of
Jo20.G0; guardian wax discharged.
Lincoln . Hunt, a executor of the
Peter Itllcy estate, made hlx tenth
settlement; bnlnnce. ?!,07H.
II. i:. Decker, In charge of the Cnrv
dm VanDnren heirs, made hlx third
settlement; balance, JriOO.
,,' W. Cummins, ax Kardian of
Virgil Jackson, made hist fifth settle
inent; balance, Sl.OS.lfi.
(i. W. Cununlnx, guardian of John
II. Proctor, filed sixth settlement.
(. Vt. 'Cummins, nx executor of the
Hlcvlnx heirs, maile hi sixth Settle
ment; balance, $.'ir!.t),
G". V. Cununlnx, guardian of I.eona
I-ranrcx Mclntyrc, filed hlx second set
tlement; balance, t(l.'J05.
In the estate of John llrodhcck, a
non-competent. Id guardian, fi. W.
Cummin, fileil hi sixth settlement;
balance, M,.10.).P.
0. W, Cumnilnx .nx executor of the
estate nf the late Win. C. Opel, filed
lilx first settlement, showing a bal
ance of SH.-tfl'),
J. K. Weller. guanllan nf Vldclla
Ilutchcr, a minor, mnde hlx first set
ilnniuit; bnlanre, $l,(i:tr..
An order of sale of real estate was
made In the estnte of Arthur Schmut
rer. n minor.
Mary Urine, nx runrdlan of the
Hfine heir, maile hrr tenth nnnunl
exhibit of the condition nf the cxtntc;
bnlance. S:ir..!i,1,
Cnrl KUlMt, nx ntlmlnlstrntnr of the
Chnllln Klllntt etnte, showed a bnl
nnce of JfiTiKS In lilx fin.t wttlemtnt.
Cnrey K. Hunker, nx giinnlina of
the Hunker heirs. mnle blx thinLxnt
tlenienti balance, $l,fi:i8.:iL.
Ilichard V.. Di-ckcr. ax Kiianllnn of
lllcn II. l ullcr, n minor. In hlx second
settlement, showed n balance irf J 1,037
ilue hlx ward,
.1. II. Wilson, nx guardian of Hnro'd
h. N'nlnnd, a minor, filed hlx fourth
, Fcttlement; balance, SI.O.V.l, An or
der wax made for tho support and
education of the ward.
In the Sarah M. I'uller, deceased,
estate, Itlrhnrd K. Decker made IiIr
third settlement; bnlance, ViViM.
In the estate nf Win. Ideker, de
ceased, A. C, F. Iilclier, as executor,
Iircxented his first settlement; bnl
nuce, $I,-1!17.S0.
flevtrude C. Illnde. guardian nf
Dwlght and Joyco Illnde, mlnor,
made her second settlement; bnlanre,
?4:ioxn.
In the estato of Mary A. FiUmnu
rice, decened, a final settlement w.ix
, made by Kdwnrd Fitzinnulrrp, nil
mlnlMratnr; balance, JI.717, An or
der of dlMrlhutlon was made to Flor
ence, Clarce, I.nrcno and Timothy
Stegmalcr nnd Patrick, Naomi Fit,
maurlce. Hixhoii Hurke. Kdward M.
and Joseph William FiUmaurlcc arc
mado trustees for certain funds under
tho will, the other heir having re
ceived their shares heretofore.
A balance nf J297.a!) was found to
bo duo tho estate nf Ilrvan Oyerly, n
minor, on tho filing of tho seventh
settlement.
I-mra Davis, in chaige nf the.W.
first settlement, showed $:127.C8 was
nue ino estate,
A final settlement was made In tho
John 0. (Irythln estate, by Ovn
Flatcn, deceased, ndnilnlfctrntor, show
ing n balance of Sl.fifil. An order nf
distribution was made to Marit T.
Flatcn, John T. Thompson, Iiagnnld
0. Jolmfon, Joe II, Murray, assignee
of Mnrlt T. Howe, ami John T.
Thompson, "nttorney In fact for the
.iviio ill nuinuii
Jas. A. Williams, as guardian of
iiesicrnmcKiana, a minor, men nis
ilii , .) - . . I. n I . tool nn
imp. ntHiieiiii-iifc, iuiuiilv, ip'"uu.
Albert M. Jones, as executor of tho
Mary A. Ettinger estate, mado his
first settlement; balance, $284.75.
i... vtiiiiiiuii. iiimmu ,.
settlement, as administrator of tho
, Binunnc iimiuu umuiu, uuiuuvi
I 'l I A. I 1 i rAllA1tftMM
heirs: Kobert. J. W.t Colo A., Grpycr
ana f rcci r. nnrnm, aiuuu oun,
Grace DcDonl. Winnie llomm and
ni TMS ii r rX t-rimer wf ( ACcv
rj' tJ . I 'I ! VJ'-V iiafechrW.J
UuJJ
J.
I IS MrW YORK
News Snapshots
Frenk e!e'tlon Mx eonllniied to be p.ilil off dmlin: Hie week: the man above walked Imrefoolcil itunn ttmndwy, New York,
la a full drext suit In bnind d.iylliiht. Prextdciit Wllxnu nddrisol the tintloii.il grimco In Wnxhlngton, blninlui: the tnl.t.lloiii:iti
Of tllP Week f"r lllEl1 fo'"1 l"'l''0, l't""1 'b'litlllM the L'liltetl Mnlex ltIh ll tint uoiunu ineinber of eniutres Mlx Jeiililit'tte Itiiiikln; lint
Mi lllb J'cca now iniikeiip of the hoil'e will Ih iniilmlled by IndiiH'iideiitx; .liimex It. Miiiiti. Ilepiitillrnii. mul fliiiinp t'liitk, I ViikmtiiI. uro
twlli ,'iuitideiit of looming tho licit xH'aker. After mouth of delay Auitrla n.-unnl Count Turiumskt nnit.ixnilor t the Flitted Klnle. In lluroj'x Ui;lit
Ing the lliitl.h piixheil nliend on the west front, xelxlmt Heiiuciitirt, while in Itnuiiiiiiila the Teiilnnle fen ex were hnrnxsl; Hc rclary IjiiiIiik reiiuiilriitex to
''orviiny on exile of llelgliui. The ipicn of our limy, the Arizorn, w.ih xeiu n tier trial tilp nlons the Allnnlle eoat.
V.ir.MT TO SKVF.S.
I'.llnbetli Clillderx. .
V econ,l Mltieit.ent In the eta!
of .Inhn V. S'rvfer wax inexcnted bv
nenrg? umtr, tl.e erutor; I ni-, I lie lia)ex-l nen t ampjign ami ton- -n. i vrn men ne wn nut nine ic
mice. rj.r.T'' !M. A partial dlxtrlirj
tlon wni ni'lered to Henry (5. nnd
JimciIi Jtevfer. Mr. Annn .Srhiili. and i
Fdwln A. We'tv. ti..lgnre of Hinmn 1
tir-l'icr am) Mael I.. t.reiner.
lot of Forty Year
Ago.
scveiiiji ballot when the convention ! publlcanx thought It would b" llrnil
iwuiig to lliithelfonl II. Ilayex, who'lev. And llradley It wax. He said
a a dark horse up to the llftb bnl-1 be tlin 'trlil it nltrost ton much to ex
pert mm to ie tin- only nnn.pnrtlsaii
bind I la) ex, who had the nomination
n'l the seventh ba'lot with o.ily rlx
vnti'x tu. spare.
The llepubliranx bn.ke the unit rule
in mix convention, i our I'ennxyivanin
. I mi.. .1. ..C iI.a Ifltn ..Hih.ln.1
...r .f",'",1,ls. tfior.llon or the ' , " 7 ; 7 ,. - ,,om inr'v0rf. detieatex wanted to vote t ulr own
Wlnxlmy belrx. 11'e.t blx fifth settre- ?'' Vl the vote In the lectora ""' "'ei.tx nnd the clnlr sustnlne,!
VtrSlJtL "v. a- d calls to . .1 ml th' " .'? '''-,'!"n "Pn-.d fnui.
wnx uinde for r.pp'nprlatmn for edu- . f ii....,! H(rvtri-ia. Lonvcen Sam- ' 'I"ed. :-.if ;w inter nn Pl
eat Ion ae.l fppo-t. ''Yn.1. I. J T. ,, nf v'j 1 York the Dcm- "'"'I''. n "'ft'''' tP enf.u.e It niraln
In the tleorge Hanker .state. Cen. '"'J NV.V n d Iteti.c S.rd P f(''"'l ver since the He
W. Cummin, r.x ndr.i nMnuor. made 'fra,l ' T'1 .""'l.i'v.V "i ' i..-t.l.ea.i l ine iffow,! 1.. .....imlw
secnnil tcllleieepl: balance, SI!,-1 ,. .1 .V.:r...... ".,.i .. thlx rule.
. A Partial distribution was or- .Z. . " .V ' ......
1 . a r. 1 1 iiinn riTPivni irii tMfciurni vuiui 1 in i'i n nn in m
u.iiarua iiniiare. jonn .unr- . ........ ..r . ... ir. n. ...i... 1,.
I A...I.. HLu n..n.... Mill i I"'J .'v V'
X inn 1:1; I'lliTx tlllll limit. 11111(11 I - - 1 n 1 .....-.. ...III- ..
1 1 1 in vrt iirriviii 11 1 fit"x nmi vuic iiiimh i m-.n 11 ' 11
hi
OCA
tiered
tin
lohnxon. Phoebe Wnllare, .lame
Inkx. Win. Inks, Hcrt True, Thoir.n.
Wallace, Ixlle llnll, John Inks, Irn
Inks, (leorge Carter, Martha lllevlnx,
Hello Nolaml. John and Henry Hank
er r.nd Jennie Hick.
(1. W. Cummins, ax guard an of
Patrick "Htcgnmlcr, a minor, mado
final settlement; balance, $Tfi'.'.41.
Plnnerrs Are Paxslng.
Only n few week ngn, October 15,
l'.Mfi, W. J. All. Ire mul blx L-ood wife
cehbrnted their forty-tblnl wedding
day, nnd lie apparently at this time
was enjoying thp best of health. Now
comes the rail news to his legion of
filcnd all over our county that he
had gone to the brink, on Monday,
November '.'0, lpm, wluju the Hoat
mnn took him to the Tiber shore.
Verily, huw.true the H'riptuinl lesson.
"Ye know not tJio hour the Son of
Man cometh."
Mr. All. re belongfd to that r n.'i
of pioneer, who mine to our county
sixty year ago, n young man, and
ha gro'.'n up witli the eouiily, nnd
has done hi part In making -that sec
lion, where he lived, one of our gar
den spot. Ho lived a life nf thilft
nnd Indi'xtiv, rl man who wn ever
ready to dn Ids pnit In every way that
would tend for the uplifting of the
church, school and society In every
wny. ins ileum 1 n loss to our community.
Mr. AlKire wn norn August k.i,
I RSI In St. Cl aries county, ll.l stnte.
and came with hi parents. In isr4,
to Holt county, and locnted nn what
Is now known nx the Phil Davl place,
near the Idleuiblo school house.
Later he moved to the Wnhiut drove
district, where he has lived nil thoo
year, anil where ho paxsed away.
On Oitnber lb. IS".'!, he was united
hi mnrrlngo to Martha, dauchtar of
J. C. llnyd. This marriago brought
to them live children, nil of whom
survive, and thco nre: J. K of For
est City; Mrs. C. O. VanCamn. of the
r.xomix district; ira i, or walnut
ami n pepjlur vote of 4,u:n,!.'(.
cedel to thi'"i.
their conven-
which the TI'd.ti
tunloillv con-
Tllden wax nombnteil
Minn on the commission that he wnx
htioiati nnd unable in give n strictly
unbiased judgment Just ux much is
any other member of the rommlxxlon.
When the testimony wax heard
'i'.'iil'iy votul on every ipiestion of
fart and nf law In entile baimony
with the seven Kcpubllcnn members
of the cnitinilsxlon. Whether It wnx
the Oregon cae, where It wnx
acknowledged that one of the liepub
llcan elector held n position of
"profit or tru-t" under the govern
ir.rnt; or in the enne nf the double
Kturnx nf liulslnnn; or'ln the ease
of Ihe Florida court derisions; or In
the South Carolina case; he vote.1
with the Itepubllcanx. lie said after
wutd thai he hnd soire doubt about
ihe Just'ee of the Florida situation.
After all the contests were heard the
clalinx of not a single Democratic
elector aiming Ihe disputed one was
r"otnl)!cd, nnd the claims of every
Kcpubllcnn elector were. And every
vote stood seven to eight. The rcu!t
proved beyond a shadow of a doubt
I'ir.t i.heii the stakes In a contest
nre ax great as they were In the
iinvc-M-i ihien contest, men am liuuml
to hnve their Judgment Inlliionocd by
their party affiliation.
There were charge that the Demo
crats tried In change the result be
fore the electoral colleges cast their
vote by corrupting one elector, but If
It wax tine not a single elector rodld
ci-t'l-tl the e'ertoral commission pre-ddcntlnl candidate, having more ',"" ,nr!Ul;,nrr"-. ,,,,lrl''' fV.'ry
than a ipiarter or n million more votes " ' ' J ; !.' 1
Thlx rEinpnlgri wtnt Into history a- with l lx lending ..pponent, Thomas A.
one or Ihe most rcwt.rxauic political - .:""",. : :
eplxe,le of our icpublic. ' Ibe a palgn hat followed was
1 nnl n lilt I of tilt Iln'fui ina n aitittn.
It marked t. Ins mul only fnl 01. nm) ....i,,,,,.,,,, rm,di.fale nnd no one
f,T the election n-nch nery provldiil by fl,ri.,aw nn)thlng but n smooth finish
he Amerl(.m .ons'Jtullou to perform , ,.wmi ,iTrrent campaign.
It function, riie extm-cons itu lo nl T,P , ,lt tLVturns came In every
method rcsoited In In order to diclilo ........ n. ..i..,t.. ... tii.i..
. , , .1 , . . , , . ..Ill,' ,1-111.1,11 1111- Vll-Vlll,', ,11 1,1111 II,
the electloii. dtunontrnte.l how P;'.-nnd but for n chance in.pilry It mitdit
n ... . ,. nnv,. goni. mat way. nut tin inqu o.
iudgment of men. This was so pro- cmirs frm ttir Iot)ix-ratfc- head-
nounccd nx to cuuo Senator ! ,p,nitors In a Itepnbllcan newspaper,
to reinnrk that if any situation 'o , In.lioalo.l doubt, and Chairman Chand-
that nf 1K.8 should again arise, rn illi- ,pr of lht Ucpuj.iifnn national com-
rr parly would nrcept the iitIIi.nI ,,;, pnnnplly cnpltallre.1 that
emploM d in lint context, and the gov- ,,,jM . nIl!rtn 1,1,' , to claim
crninent might be wrecked over a uc- n,u i.i ,i, .11.1
C(s 'Ion. Tlldi 11 receiviil llu i?rentext nonul.ir
No' one nf the tinmen men vl'O mn'erlly ever rrceivr.1 Iiy 11 ilerenteil
voted otherwise than according tn
the desires of l'"" I'ar'y, ned the nut- in Uie Novemlier election tlian Hayes,
"i-nm, nx re narknl by one Senator, Hut by dalmlng lh vote of several
",-ii the result of the blind rhnnce In Southern states, Couth Carolina. Iiil-
.1 ....t. ...,!.. ..C lirinlt ..m..il,.,i Uln,n nil I'li.plitn llw, l.'oiitllil Ii-n n
,r ... - t..i.... 11 ..... 11,. 1,1 ..n.ii.in.n ni,i ,...i i sr. ..Iin-i ..ml . daui'lit it of Salmon P. Chase ax a
whei the hi" er."if u' the rom'nl.iiui votex to "! for the Denioernllr can- ' i'' "f, . gratifying her grudge
wax ii scil. ti nt the fifteenth mendirr dld.T.e. Tl.e Democrat in Isteil tlmt 'n:-.-Itil Tllden for defeating Uine
t'-n' hU eVti.n to Ihe Ui.ited-'latex the votej" belonged to them, and with!'1"- 'he Demlwratil iresldciitinl pom-
,.,.,1.1 i,n iin. i.i iinvix. or inn i. a i leicoemt e House nnil a ;' iuiu can """'i. in i-"
Dr.vh had l'e':n l,ieceln's em nalgn ' seinte theic wa no posslbillly of
mntinr-cr In IbOH. nnd In 1R72 be was either nccplliig Ihe iew of the oilier,
considered for the Ulwral lteiuibllcnii Tlie outlook for .the settlement of
no 'iinnllon for president. Now ho the rnntinver.iy wr.x daik. There wnx
was one of tliose who had gone into danger of civil war. Senator IM
the Democratic fold. Some charge muiiilx afterward drew a graphic pie
that hi selection to the United States ture of tho s'tur.tlon ns it thicatcncil
sennte bv the Democrats, with the n'd to be. lie mid that n Democratic
of llemibllcan votex, was a schrnu to hou'-e would Jave declared Tllden
et him pT Ihe bceti fu P'event etivte.1, and a Hepublican senntn
his
and
vote,
Tilden
Jlny
had declile.l to tally cuoiil-Ii Itenubll
enu In the senate to count in tho
TiMiii disputed elector, but wax In
duced to change bis mind by Ihe
A Happy Couple.
The mnny. mnnv friend of Ihe con
tracting parlies. .Mr. Mont Cunv nnd
Ml llnllle Harris, me peihapx a
liaoiiv a Ihev nre over an evert
which, no doubt, will remain upon the
tablet of their yeirory for a great
.......... -ri... .......
'"IIIIJ l'lllll. I 111 J il7l II llllllHII ITIIH
their he;iil, Sunday morning, Novrni-
i. Hfi.Anii, ..i,.,..nr iviiiiin iin., tn'iiiiii'iiiri4i nv n iriii'
'woldd "have rVvewd the "final res-M VandMa e. Facl, would have, ' "j t.? " Men. y call
, making t eight In favor or tho trie.! to nssit ne uie iein 01 govern-V",,. , V.".:. . .
rontentlon. and seven for. .rent, with ,is pnrtbanx I .-hind 1. m. , " ,r I, i 'i,
es. Instead nf eight n.r May. ami nnyr rw .1 1 .. nisprr e; . .
en ror 11 uen. n niitoo n nr u ii.-. iwuiuri- im-i , , , ,lt ,,,.,,
in uir 11.11 '". 1 . 1.1 ,.tu n, and 11 ncrordance with til. UMr
ine e
Issue hefi
nre full
VeiUS leaning Up in Hie linai m-lliwiunv M"U"," ,"",, I1I l"'n" ' l)nw-nn Klinl-n tlin u-nnlx Hint ..in, I,.
fore tho electoral commission necesary appropriation bills, itT.nU- J, "nf ,?,,o 1 m.Irlv Novcmbe? 1
f In.nre. fiwi.it tnu-nnl t in; dm to carry on the n. mln strn- "". '.' 'V10. ".'P' fncmi)er l.i.
.i, ,i r M'v.nn,l Lni,. u-'n ...t'e.1 tlon. O.-i the other hand. Tllden would . "p """l'1 . "T'? 0 couple that
by some of his friends to 'stand for a have been nx badly handicapped, as a " '' . Xmliinnt
it.tnl (nr.... In.i nx nil ihr other two. lteiuib can senate would have refusei 1 1 fr'" J1" "cw I'M.uioninip tnai l.a
fJmvo illxtrlri. Mm. !!.. litnMn f..""" :...t.il... i..i i u,.i.i,w.. iii Vimnini hlx iiiiiiolntnuMiU nnd Hie I minigiil ' mue.i ratisiuetinn an.
. ... .. It 1 ""mill I" 1.11..... iii.'i ."wn ii.i - , ,
lllgelow, and W. H., of Oregon, cnun- ion, Jelfersnn, Madison, Monroe and government could . ot bo mnnncd by
I
ii'insurr. because It Is but Ihe growth
nnd development of a sweet courtship.
The bride bns spent most of her
ty collector. All tho children arc' Jarksnn. Hut unlike them ho did not iidminlstrntive orilc ,s. With each
trnrried nnd have given tn their par- spurn the suggestion; nn the contrary taking the oath of ofllce and attempt
ents nn even dorcn grandchildren. He he welcomed It. When the Pennsyl- Ing to exercise its duties, tho solemn
is aiso survived uy ins nroiner,
II. T. Alltlre. of this cltv.
Tho decened was a member
.... ; ! . . . lit. r i
lv ,"' " . ... .uoerni nnni v uie, mat Wlllio 110 mil noi enre lor 'i amnnif wi'i uiii ..., ..mi.ii ..u .m . . . ... ,i nml-ililn mul In
U U'm nn in nf I i , u.,.t V...,.. I - .i.t'i . il.., ..,ll,i Imvn mul ininil mil II llio npvt rlor on menini Sill nglll, Ml .line, 1111 II III
' V....V Ml' , U I I 111 1 1- I III llll' Hill' lll'KI'l ,1'IMW .
her from tho home, the funeral when it would bo unfortunate to mnko and perhaps thereafter, since no prop-
dlsrnurso being delivered by Klder II. n chnngo at the end of eight venrs. cr machinery for a natlon-wldo elec-
II. Dawson, of tho Christian church, He added that only if a rcnoinlcntlon Hon would have been possible.
..--Ii. ...1.1-1. l. . ... t.i... ' . . i M-I.a ..In.,..-,! ..i.it.ilaL.n lilin u-na
Why Some Hlue (lrax Ix Hi tter.
The most nnd best blue-grass seed
con-rx'not fro:i the oilginnl blue
gi:ix state, but from Missouri. None
'mx bi-en fnlrer In 'acknowledging
thlx than the Krntuckv seedsmen.
'riii the Mlxfourl shipmcntx they
have bren able curb year to select for
t; elr fancy Kradcx n gratifying
a: iinint of rcid having binvier,
ti!u 'per berriC'i than it Mas poib!e
ti 'ln.1 el.'ewbere Hnviiig accepted
tl,o tr?), t 't n'Hi.u to tm.ler
tand lh"iit. It r eiither hard nor
h i "dinting to n.'rouiit for the larger
i .a it.tv pnxbired ti the larger state:
, wni ihe lu tti r ,'.aHt that stuiipni
tl em.
I'i their eiTo-t t- nicr Ibis purr.ln
nn" som niei' it i'i'n-gin? men
' Ihe point-, in 'Hxsousl Irnm which
I'll.l n.'tie It-ejs lirrt ee.l. One such
t-d Holt courtv.
Mix ll'idlngx were tvulcnl nf condl-
t'on-- In many of Mixxoiirl' blue.grnx
routitlr. He went to Mnltland and
Mtigh o-j Dave tlelvln, who hnx xhlp-i-
nl .vwo to W.non buxhel of see.1
nnmmlly since I'JOI nil stripped from
his own field.
"Mr. t.elvln." nld he. "I want i
see your blue grass."
"Jty lilue grass: wiiy, it's not even
in btiHim yet."
"I don't cn'. an) thing about the
bloom! I want to ee the grnx and
It-, motx and the roll In which It
grow. our seeils nlwayx gootl; I
wnnt tn Know til" reason wny.
Three miles nut from Maltland. (lei
vin ar.il Ids gueit s.hii plunge.1 Into
nn SIKt.nrre field of knee-high Ken
tucky blue graxx. Down en nil four
went the Kentucklnn. parting (he
graxx close to Ihe ground. Among the
thictly crowding stems lie dug in
linger Into n i.ornu Inicr nf icil.llxh-
brnwii mold- Ihe residue frnm yrara
or puiuring Willi rattle, iiin.iingtiiisi
together nnd protecting It from cm
ion wnx n tangled mat of lat year's!
gIMWtll.
Careful liniuliv brought out the
'acts that Mr. (.elvln had sown, the
llr t of thlx field on the prairie sod In
IS:t, adding to It early lintU he hnd
I too nciex of blue grass. Most of
thlx stand ix thirty year old. In nil
thlx time neither plow nor lire has
disturb. .1 It. (Jenerallv rnnglng over
these fields an- -too to MO rattle, much
of the time on fii'l fcid.
Thlx blue granx bax not been pas
tured heavily; only the cream bax en
tered Into the production of the mnny
trninloa.lx of fat rattle. Kven at Hint
it has been an important factor. IjixI
year Mr. Celviii shipped a trnlnloa.l,
twTly.lbrco enrx. of Whltefaco
steer .averaging 1 t'J4 poundx, for tint
select innrk"tx of ' v r-";
And Hie pasture residue the lids
milk of the blue grass, so lu sp.
has goa" bnck Into the soil, year after
year. In add to suhsciirnt production.
"IF our soil, .Mr. (Mvln. your
rich soli nlwav growing ilrher,"
nnnoui'ceil Ihe blito-grnr exnert when
lie had finished his lnpcctlon of the
field. "And. .Mr. (Mvln. when the
"c.l' stripped and cured we'ie g.ilng
to bid on It by ulr.- It will not be
necpsxary for ux to see It."
Thlx xcaion the seed harvest from
Mr, Celvln'x puturex amounted to
f-fil'tl bi-shele. The entire crop wns
iiuhkly sold nt one dollar a bushel
one dollar for every fouiteen pounds
of rough shipping. That there Is a
real illiferenrp In tunl!ly even In tho
same locality Ix pi eve. I by the fact
t tint other thoi'-and nf beshel strlp
"m! from les fertile pastures within
the same tinrshln brought only
elrhly rents n bishel.
There are elpht strlpi'lng mnchlncs
tl, f!..l..l.. Cn,-..
I.-ii -i,-,i,i i.i'iii. i,-i iti in ,ii,
Invest n-.-nt of T,'l. Willi battery
of machines the boys and the mules
make uulck work of the blir fields
nciexsiirlly so, for the n-.xl tipepx
nil nt nrre nnd sbntterx readily. It
I cm oil under roof in the big barn,
wheie r.vei-nl men nre kept busy
tunilni' It to prevent heating.
With only the erenm removed nnd
Hie skim milk returned tn rnrich Hip
xell, Ihe'o reienlns nt so inerh nf a
puzzle after all in the fact tlmt thlx
transplanted bit of old Kuit-icky has
(uirpnssed even the bnnornb'e tradi
tions of its narent stock. Tho $7r,000
realized within the lavt fifteen venrH
from hlue-gniss see.1 nn tho (lelvln
fnnn Is, bath figuratively nnd liter
ally, only (ho stripping;.. Arthur A.
Jeffrey In Tlie Country Centlcmnn,
N'ovember 18.
iron, ne ,e welcomed it. vncn llio rennsyi- ing u. . mi. is.- m ... ... ""'"""nf,, ,pr nd for n number of veurs
r, J..do vnnla state w.bllcn convent o cereinony o taldng t J.o oath . am ho "J ."pw'
prnnoiinced n thinl term, he wr.'to its Innugnrul pngi-nnl wouui nnve I'een., i.uiu.iii.Miir Mni-rnntlln Cam.
r of tho .'.residing ofilcer. Oeneral Harry but tho pr.hul.. lu nn awfti trae. y 1 '"""n"" 0nian of . o"t liia
?ral was White, that while ho did not care for ''f nnarcOiy mid civ Iwnr, w
with which orgcnlzntlnn ho hml been , enmn to him In such n way nx to The electoral commission Iden wai
a member for several years. Tho in- make It his Imnerat ve duty to accept the outgrowth of the "grand commit
ferment wns In' Maplo Orovo ccmo- it, would ho do so. This wns general- tee' that had been advocated by many
tery. Oregon, Mo. Following this, ly construed ns permission to his since the days of tho framing of llio
tho Masonic fraternity took charge, i friends to Invito n national call for constitution. It wax advocated by
who performed tho last sad rites that, him. imtsmbors of both parties. Ihero wero
tho living ran pay to the dead. i A Hittlo later thn House, of IJepre- n few on both sides who opposed It.
"The will of Cod Is accomplished Is entatives took n Itimd In his ambl- Hut ns there seemed to bo rip othur
so mote It be." lUons and pnssed a resolution which way out of tho dljllculty, both house
n seventy out of the eighly-elglit voting agieed to tho mea-uro creating tho
V f.on.l m.lnm..n! i Republicans favored. This resolution commission. , Mori ill said that if
Will De rr sent out teTrn'rs of hoes I'llarcd that It would be "unwise, un- either limiso had thought tho fifteenth
last week tho rangi nrlMs T being 1 Pntriotlc nnd fraught with peril to our member would not he non-partisan,
frnm 9 "5 tn SO 05 Jlnf Mris 1 mS . frf0 Institutions" for the third term tho mcasuro could not lmvo passed,
out n car of lioe to 1,0 ItWrcd. Tho total I Senator Ingallx said oftenvard that
also Fb? Atkins an tho' Fornevl v"to was 2.14 for tho resolution and tho commission was a device favored
Hrothcrt In the Dcrr si mncnt was eBhtcn KaInst Thla cITcctunlly by each par y In the belief that It
MrohrJd to h rBnt t,,,r,, cnnPallvo1 n,,lfthdl .grboth1 W-'C'
OTll Irtt 'oiiort of tho adm.nlst.at.on "ISW. ' sKas to be
w riffiivernrnt thu xtntinn thn nnt ,l,rn w?nt t0 "oscoc Conkllng ana made up of tiirec uemocrais irom ino
hogs delivered at this station tho past 0Uver Mortoni niano WB, (he from tho house, nnd two from tho
anti-administration candidate. When 'from the supremo court, witn tnreo
iiepuuucans irom ino scnaie, two
from tho senate, and two from tho
supremo court. Tho four justlcoa of
tho supremo court were to chooso the
fifth member. Tho Democrats thought
it ivpuld bo David Davis when thoy
allowed tho bill to pass, and the Re-
year,
Wo aro glad to bo able to Inform
our friends of tho' Improved condition
of A. A. Wright. Ho la now able to
novo about his bed room a little at a
tlmo through tho day. He has been
a very sick man fpr several weeks.
the convention met he bad more votes
than any other two randldntca and It
became a enso of tho field against
him. Although an investigation into
some of his financial transactions wai
then being made, he nevertheless wai
tho favorite in the voting up to the
fart, possesses all nf the rc.mlslto
iiuallfiratlons to fill her new obliga
tion to Its very highest. Kverybody
iovo.1 iialtlP Harris, necauso fr.o was
orthy of being lovr.l by us. The
f.-oom Is n brother of tho Junior nf
this paper, n hlgh-clati accountant.
ucd Is now with the Mnxwell-McClure,
ntts Mercantile. Company, of Kansas
City, Mo and he. too, has so many
friends thnt his "coupling un" with
tho girl of his choice sneaks Tor him
nx n well, hnlnnred fellow, nnd The
Old Sentinel I especially gratified at
ids marriage, and nope ino two win
so live, toirethcr that thev may ever
l" Rwcct-hcaits every day during
tneir journey nere.
They immediately left on tho noiiri
train for Knnsas City, where they will
reside,
t o ,
It is with no little degree of pride
that wo announco tho selection of Ira
Richardson as president of tho Mis
souri State Tcachcrs'lAsEocIatlon, at
tho recent session in St. Louis. The
next annual meeting will bo held in
Kansas City. Mr, Richardson ifl a
Holt county boy, and a graduate of
the 'Mound City high school, and is
at present at tho head of tho Mary
ville Normal.
She Surprised Them.
Ml s.i Lillian Austin, daughter of
I.'. M. Austin and wife, of St. Josenli.
surprl-eil her many iclatlve and
S! t .... 1 I .
ini'iiiiN hi viitk"'. iiuinisiMiieij- .-ii-
giavcd card, announcing her mar
ilni'o to Mr. Theodore Curtis, in Min
neapolis, Minnesota, November 10,
mm.
Miss Austin la an Oregon girl, hav
ing been born and raised here, nnd has
orneclnlly endenred herself, to nil of
us. She Ix cultured and refined, and
will bo a truo help-meet to her hus
band In every sense of that word.
Mr. Curtis Is thn president of a
Inrgo hotel corporation of Minneapo
lis, and 11 young man of high attain
ments. We Join with the many friends of
tho bride In wishing thnt her lourncv
through llfo with her chosen partner
may always do as Drlgnt ami nappy
as her wedding day.
This Ix tho second man luge in tho
Austin family inside of -a month. Miss
Mablo Austin was married to Mr,
Clydo Mabry, of Jackson, Mo., last Oc
tober. Mr. Jackson la engaged in the
flour and milling business at Jackson,
this state. May this voung counlo
enjoy every blessing during their
journey inrougn mo is tne rincero
wish of all.
Emil Martin and wlfo aro now
domiciled in their new homo, which
Is modern and up-to-date in evory
particular,.
h
mmmrmmmmm
r'-W&
