THE BARM' DAILY
71" Trfl TU1
U. iLlYiLJiJiO
VOL. XX NO. 215.
BARRE, VERMONT, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CEXT.
DANUBE TOWNS
ARE CAPTURED
Teutons Won Both Orsova
and Turn Severin, Re
ports Berlin
LITTLE WALLACHIA
VIRTUALLY OVER-RUN
In Dobrudja Russians Are
Claiming Some Advance
MAXIM, INVENTOR,
DIED IN LONDON
Though American Born, H Became. Brit
ish Subject and Was Knighted in
1911 and Received Other
Distinctions.
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 24. Oreova
and Tiirnu Sevcrin, both on the Danube,
have been captured by Austro-German
troops, tlie war office announces. The re
sistance of the Rumnnians in the ex
treme western section of Rumania has
been broken, the statement says. On the
Wallachian plains the Teutonic forces
ure' approaching the river Alt.
The virtual completion of the Teutonic
conquest of Little Walluchia is indicated
bv the Berlin announcement. The re
treat of the Rumanian forces is assumed
to have been cut oif with the recent cap
ture by Von Falkenhyn's armies of Cra
iova and with it the only main line of
railroad eastward.
rushing eastward from the Jiul valley
after their captvire of Craiova, the Austro-German
forces arc approaching the
Alt valley, along which the Rumanians
apparently have elected to make their
next stand. Simultaneously a movement
was made, presumably by Bulgarians,
which may prove of notable importance.
Burt-barest reports an attempt by hos
tile forces to cross the Danube at Zem
iiitz, southwest of Giurgiu. This move, j
if successful, would mean cutting in far j
behind the present Rumanian line along
the Alt.
On the other hand, the Russians have
made a counter move in ljobrudja. Pet
rograd announces they are pushing south
and have reached Lake Tashaul, 12 miles
north of ConstHii.a, and have crossed the
Knrtc! river. Berlin announces a battle
in this region, declaring that the Ku
sin ns were thrown back from their ad
vanced positions.
BOMBARDMENT
ON SOMME FRONT
And Forty Aerial Engagement in Which
Five German Machines Were
Brought Down.
Paris, Nov. 24. There was a.lively
bombardment on the Somme front last
night, the war office announces. French
aviators participated in 40 aerial engage
ments on the Somme front, during which
live hostile machines were brought down,
Sub-Lieutenant (.corge Guynemer ac
counting for his 23d German machine.
RUMANIANS TAKE
SEVERAL TOWNS
Have Resumed Offensive in Dobrudja
and Are Advancing Along the
Entire Front.
Bucharest, via London, Nov. 24. Ru
manian forces have assumed the offen
sive in Dobrudja, says an official state
ment. They have advanced along the en
tire front, capturing several towns.
GERMAN SUBMARINE
TAKEN BY BRITISH
Crew Landed at an Italian Port, Accord
ing to Newspaper Story Pub
lished in Milan.
Milan, via Paris, Nov. 24. The British
naval forces recently captured a large
German submarine, according to a local
newspaper, which says a British mine
sweeper landed 13 sailors and two officer
of the submarine crew in an Italian port.
FRANCE PROPOSES
TO ENLIST MORE
Those Exempted or Mustered Out Prior
to April are to Be Examined Again
for Military Service.
Paris, Xov. 24. The minister of war
has introduced a bill in the Chamber of
Deputies, by which all persons exempted
from military service or mustered out
as physically unfit prior to last April
must submit to further medical exam
ination. The minister of war believes
that of several hundred thousand men
thus exempted an appreciable number
will be found capable of non-combatant
service at least.
London; Nor. 24. Sir Hiram Maxim,
the inventor of the automatic system
of firearms, died to-day.
Sir Hiram Stevens Maxim, American
born, was one of the most famous in
ventors, mechanical and electrical engi
neers of Great Britain. He was most
widely known as the inventor of the
Maxim machine gun, which makes the
recoil of the weapon serve as the power
for reloading, and winch is the weapon
largely used in the European war to
day.
He was born in Sangervillo, Me., Feb
ruary 6, 1840, the son of Isaac Weston,
and Harriet M. Maxim, and received only j
a common school education, but ho ac
quired scientific knowledge by reading
and attending lectures. He went to Eng
land in 1881, and had resided there ever
since. He was knighted by Queen Vic
toria in 1001.
His son, Hiram Percy Maxim, is a well
known inventor m the Lnitcd States,
known particularly as the inventor of
,the Maxim silencer.
For many years Sir Hiram was a di
rector in the firm of Vickers Sons and
Maxim, but resigned that post in 1011.
tor more than thirty years he experi
mented in aeronautics and invented fly
ing machines. In the light of the pres
ent war, with its numerous German air
ship raids on England, it is remarkably
interesting to recall that eight years ago
Sir Hiram toofl the British nation to
task for its small interest in aeronautics,
and pointed then, at a time when aero
planes were in their infancy, that Eng
land was in grave danger of bombard
ment by airships.
"Does any one doubt for a moment,"
said he, "that in ease we find ourselves
at war with a continental power, air
ships will be used for bombarding Eng
lish towns, both on the coast and in
land f The city of London within a
year's time can be attacked without our
enemy needing to fear the boasted Brit
ish fleet."
Following the success of the Wright I
biplane, Sir Hiram renewed his long con- i
tinned interest in aviation and in 1010
perfected a machine which he declared
bnd certain advantages over the Wright's.
It was he who, with others, interested
the British government in beginning its
organization of an aerial navy, and
though he was then 70 years old he
lived to see the great war bring air fight
ing to pass in even greater measures,
probably, than he himself had dreamed.
In addition to his gun ami aeroplane,
he patented many electrical inventions,
including incandesent lamps, self-regulating
current machines, several pieces
of ordnance, and a smokeless powder.
The aged inventor took a keen inter
est in the war, and from time t- TThie
there were unconfirmed reports of his in
vention of devices to meet the needs
of the war, one of them being an appar
atus to counteract the effects of the
poisonous gases which the Germans were
first to bring into use. - In 1015 he was
appointed a member of the invention
board of the British munition depart
ment under Lloyd George.
Sir Hiram applied himself so strenu
ously to science throughout his long life
that even his recreations were given by
him as "reading scientific books and
studying the abstract science." He wrote
many important articles and an auto
biography, "My Life," in 1915.
He was a chevalier of the Legion of
Honor, a member of the American So
ciety of Civil Engineers, the Roval So
ciety of Arts, the British Association for
the Advancement of Science and nunier
ous other scientific bodies.
MOVE NORTH
OF MONASTIR
Entente Allies Have Gained
Further Ground East
of the City
SINGLE CASE AS TEST.
on
Government and Railroads Agree
Plana in Adamson Suit.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 21. Confer
ences between Attorney General Gregory
and counsel for important railway sys
tems of the country, looking to the ex
pedition to the supreme court of one of
'NEW PREMIER
FOR RUSSIA
RUTLAND MAN DEAD
UNDER TROLLEY CAR
ITALIANS ADVANCE
WEST OF THAT PLACE
Official Statement in Paris
Tells of Success in
Macedonia
the suits attacking ti. constitutionality Alexander Trepoff Succeeds
of the Adamson act, virtually were con- 1
jvi. aiurmer dv impe
rial Ukase
Paris, Nov. 24. Entente forces on the
Macedonian front are making progress
in attacks on the German-Bulgarian
lines, according to to-day's war office
announcement. A gain of further ground
during the continuation of the battle
east of Monastir is claimed, while to
the west the Italians are continuing
their progress. They have reached Niji-
pole.
TO IDENTIFY SUSPECT.
Chicago Detective Goes to the Man Who
is Thought to Be Crones.
Chicago, Nov. 21. A Chicago detective
left last night for Spaulding, Neb., to
investigate the identity of the man
whom Marshal Byrnes believes to be
Jean Crones, the Chicago anarchist who
eluded yesterday and the question of
which shall be made the test case was
placed in the hands of department of
justice attorneys and legal representa
tives of the railroads now in Kansas
City.
It was said that In the conferences T A TTFT? T? FM A TMQ
here the form of the agreement bet ween LtA 1 Aj1V iVXUYl.tt.ilN D
the attorney general and the railroad IN EMPIRE COUNCIL
lawyers was in substance decided upon,
and that the only matter to be deter
mined In Kansas City, is whether the
,...:t -c il. ir:.,.....t m.ii .
null. 1M IIIC .MinaUMll, VKiHIiOIlia (V UIHI I f-n-t TT 1 J 11 TT' i.
raliroad decided Wednesday against the 1 111S Undoubtedly IS VlCtOry
?r ' Z2; 1 , LanLe' for Liberal Elements
test case. Terms of the tentative under- Jj Nation
standing were telegraphed by the depart
ment to O. C. Todd, assistant to the at
torney general In charge of anti trust
nrnuiutut irt., a n n ... . ! . 1 1' n t 1, u ,1 1 i n K
Kansas Citv'eases. and by counsel for the L Lo"''"", Nov. 24.-Alexandcr Trepoff,
carriers to'Walker D. Hines, counsel for j Ku8mn "iiniatw of railways, has been
the Santa Fc , appointed premier, according to a Renter
in ,,,Woo l,i ,;,!. w dispatch from Petrograd. Retiring Min
both the department and the railroads jer M. Srunier , by on imperial ukase,' ul ,mt
every way to expedite and ac- h" be.en PPointpl grand chamberlain I R
John Moriarty Had Just Alighted from
the Forward Platform of the Car
and Probably Slipped Under
the Wheels.
Rutland, Nov. 24 The second fatal ac
cident of the week in this city occcurrcd
last evening about 5:30 o'clock when
John Moriarty of 14 Evergreen avenue,
was run over at the corner of Evergreen
and Columbian avenues, and instantly
killed by an out-going electric car, No.
15, which was in charge of F. "Butterfly,
motorman, and E. B. Channell, conductor.'
One of the forward wheels passed over
Mr. .Moriarty s body before the car could
be stopped. The man's chest was badly
crushed and both arms were severed
from the body.
Mr. Moriarty, who is a laborer em
ploved by the city in the water depart
ment, was bound for home at his regular
hour and on the car which he was in th
habit, of taking. Reports conflict as to
just how the accident happened. As the
car approached the corner where Mr
Morantv was to get off, he either alight
ed before the car had stopped moving and
slipped under the wheels, or he stepped
down after the car had come to a stand
slipped just betore the tar
arrraa in
tivi.lv nr H. in l, ,urminM the imperial court, retaining his func
iinon o n fii,.,i dnMsinn in !, .,mr.m tioBS n a member of the council of the
court, and that ilnrinf the nonrlinrv of empire.
this suit the government will not b'ctrin J'etrograd newspapers say the appoint-
anv nrns..,.ut;n nf carrii-r. fr,r fBil,,r ment of 1 repoff implies the necessity
to 'applv the law, During its pendency lhRt lhe government make communica
the carriers will institute no more suits, t,on to Parliament explaining impend
and at its determination both parties to lnK promems connected wittt tlie govern
the agreement will be bound by the su-
preme court decision, the carriers airree
ing not to bring further action if the The retirement of Sturmer and the
law is found constitutional and to stop appointment of Trepoff was probably the
all others. Neither party is bound bv outgrowth of what has been referred to
the agreement to refrain from efforts to ln a few carefully censored Petrograd
secure legislation which might change dispatches recently as a serious political
the Adamson act crisis in the life of the Russian nation
The ioint concrcs.innal mmmiffpe in. M he change apparently implies a victory
is said to have poisoned 200 prominent j vestigating the subject of transportation for yhe liberal elements over the bureau
guests of the University club at a din
ner given Archbishop Mundclcin last
winter.
Late yesterday afternoon Chief of De
tectives Lark in received a second tele
gram from Marshal Byrnes which read:
This man didn't give the name of
Crones. He answers the description in
every way, but his hair is cut short,
so I can't tell whether it is cury or
not. His clothes are same as description.
He claims discharge from army."
A copy of the indictment against
Crones has been telegraphed to Byrnes
so that the prisoner may be held until
the police obtain a fugitive warrant.
began its work in earnest yesterday, Icralic regime.
with A. P. Thorn, counsel for the railway
executives' advisory committee, speaking gT, JOIINSBURY
iui iwu iiuurs Him m imil on jaiuunu
problems of the day. He continued to
day and may not end his argument be-
forp tin nwi of ih wpul
Mr. Thorn went into many phases of Samuel ivigney, Halt troten and Hair
the railroad conditions, but dwelt par
ticularly on their need for credit if they
BOY BROUGHT HOME
Jean Crones has been reported cap
tured from many places since his at
tempt to cause the death of Archbishop
George W. Mundeleiu and 200 others at
a banquet held at the University club in
.-Chicago on February 10 last. None of
the reports hitherto circulated proved
true.
RUSSIANS ADMIT SHIP LOSS.
Dreadnought Was Sunk Following an In
ternal Explosion,
retrograd, via London, Nov. 24. Rus
sia officially announces the loss of the
dreadnought Imperatritsa Maria. A
statement issued last night reads:
The Russian dreadnought Imperatrit
sa Maria has been sunk by an internal
explosion. Two hundred of the crew are
missing.
The Russian naval staff, says a Neuter
dispatch from Petrograd, has issued the
following statement:
At six o'clock on October 20 fire broke
out in the forward magazine of the Im
peratritsa Maria. An internal explosion
followed immediately and the fire spread
rapidly and reached fhe petrol tanks.
The officers and crew strove with the
utmost bravery to localize the effects of
the explosion and flood thi magazines.
The commander-in-chief, Vice-Admiral
Koischak, went aboard and took personal
command of the operations.
Shortly after seven oeIoJt, however,
the vessel sank. The greater part of the
Only 25 persons became ill and none
died as result of the poison that
Crones, an anarchist, with an avowed
hatred of the Roman Catholic church,
j had placed in the food as it was pre
pared. He was employed in the kitchen.
The exact manner in which the poison
was administered was not learned, but
it is believed that he placed a quantity
of arsenic in five cans of chicken soup.
Only one can was used and that was
poured into a large cauldron with new
stock.
A week after the failure of the at
tempted assassination of Bishop Mun
delein a man purporting to be Crones
appeared in New York. He telephoned
to the police and to newspaper offices
and wrot numerous letters explaining
his act, but was not caught despite the
efforts of the city's most skilful detec
tives.
Since last February Crones has been
reported arrested or to have committed
suicide in almost every state in the un
ion.
Starved, Was Found in Box Car
at Berlin, N. H.
St. Johnsburv, Nov. 24. Samuel Sevig-
Iney, 14-year-old school boy who disap
peared from the home of his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Alphonse Sevigney, on Nov. 12,
are to extend and keep transportation
facilities up to the standard the public
demands. He said that in the last 10
years the percentage of railroad secur
ities constituting liens against the prop-
.. L..I ' . 1 . .- 1 . 4(1 I . . .
n i im-irru iiuhi Hui'tu ;' 'ri i g home again
cent to about . per cent of the total The boy was found in a hospital in
m-curiues ami preuiciea mat nnanciers m-lin. N. H., where he was taken Satur
who would come before the committee dav niglt from box ,.ar in a haif frozen
later woum tesuiy mat me danger line an(1 nnlf starved condition.
natt neen readied. I lie investing public, ThPV WPre unable to learn his name
Air. mom said, demanded a per cent Hntji Wednesday and the Berlin police
.mi huh o rriu, miruuH imm recognized the lad from descriptions fur
yearly to provide against lean years, and Uuhcd by Chief of Police Kinlev of St.
siii-i. mum is hiimusi i.i,pu.imf on rn- johnsbiiry. Jlr. Nevignev went to Ber
road stocks under present conditions. hin and turned with his son.
If government ownership of railroads u -I11)no.mi that the bov ran awav
emnes in this country," said Mr. Thorn, because he didn't like school. He rode
"it will be because of the need of credit hi Umh to VhitBM. V IT. a nit
ngain.
It is definitely known that the unfor
tunate man got off. at the front end of
the car. A moment later the car had
passed over his body, which was found
in a badly mangled condition under the
car. between the front and rear wheels,
Dr. C. H. Swift was called to the scena
of the accident and Dr. F. H. Gcbhardt
arrived a few moments later. The body
was removed to the undertaking rooms
of Spencer & Canty on Grove street, and
the family of Mr. Moriarty was notified
as soon as possible.
Mr. Moriarty was 6. years of age. lie
was born in Ireland, but came to this
country while a young man. He had
been a resident of Rutland for the past
45 years.
He Is survived by his wife, seven sons
and four daughters, most of them grown
to maturity. He also has one sister, who
still lives in Ireland. The children who
survive are Thomas, of Albany, N. V.,
John of Worcester, Mass.. frank of Hart
ford, Conn., diaries, Edward, Martin and
James of this city. The daughters are
Mrs. Fred Francis, and Catherine, Stella
and Anna, all of this- city.
The funeral will be held Saturday in
St. Peter's church.
SOCIALISTS CELEBRATED
The Election of Comrade James Lawson
to Legislature.
Socialists of Barre Town and Rarre
and a number of sympathizers celebrated
the election of James Lawsoji,' the first
Socialist to gain a seat in the general as
sembly of Vermont, at a party in Miles
hall at Granitevillc last evening. It was
slippery going for most of those who
came in auto or by team and the weath
er was not of the sort that tempts people
which private owners cannot supply. th,,re evidently crawled into a box car. Lie were assembled, and had there been
He added that in his opinion one way to Thp parpht8 had given the boy up as! many more the accommodations would
dead, thinking he had died from exposure,
as he was not dressed for cold weather.
RETURNS NOT CORRECT
reduce the cost of living is to give the
railroads capita! to open up new terri
tory. "The decision of fhe American people
has gone forth." said the witness in con
clusion, "that the railroads must stay From Fiv(J towns and One City Ward in
m.i oi - Miimiu see 10 n New Hamnshire
that the side that wants to attack the "ew ""P8111"'
railroads says out of politics too. I Concord, N. H., Nov. 24.-Rolland H.
plead with vou for a non-political busi- Spaulding and his executive council met
ness regulation of railroads that would
SEVEN AUTOS DESTROYED
When Garage Employe at Portland, Me.,
Was Filling Tank.
Portland, Me., Nov. 25 Filling a gaso
line tank in the automobile of Dr. A. C.
mompson that ran over and killed a
Portland boy six weeks ago led to
20,000 tire In the garage of Urban A.
Jowle, torest avenue, last evening.
Stanley Thompson, an employe, was
injured, his clothing being burned from
his body before he could rush out of the
building.
Of the 20 cars in the garage, seven
were destroyed and the balance damaged
by nre and water.
A spark caused by the nozzle of the
gasoline tank coming in contact with
other metal is credited with starting
the fire.
About $1,200 worth of supplies and ac
crew were saved. An officer and two first icessories were burned also and the build-
OPERATOR ACQUITTED.
Was Charged with Revealing Contents of
Telegraphic Dispatch.
New York, Nov. 24. Henry L. Lin
der, a former postal telegraph operator,
was acquitted yesterday in general ses
sions by direction of Judge Wadhams,
of a charge upon which he was indicted
in 1914. of revealing the contents of a
telegraphic dispatch. Linder was arrest
ed in the ofliee of the Globe, a New York
evening newspajcr, where he was as
signed by the Postal Telegraph company
to handle a private wire. lie was ac
cused of having "listened in" on a news
dispatch from the Associated Press and
it was contended that he immediately
transmitted this dispatch over a private
w ire to the ofliee of the New York News
bureau.
In ordering Limler's acquittal Judge
Wadhams explained to the jury that sec
tion of the penal code under which he
was indicted had not been violated, as
Linder was not an employe of the Globe,
nor the Associated lrcs. nor in the con
fidence of either, and therefore was not
amenable to the section under which he
ibid been inilkteJ.
class sub-officers and 14!) sailors are
missing. iMxty-tour ot the crew have
since died from the effects of burns.
"The position of the ship, which lies
in shallow water, gives hope that it may
be refloated and completely repaired in
a few months. The bridge is only one
yard below water level.
ing ruined. A nest of wooden buildings
in the neichliorhood and the machine
shop connected were saved by the firemen.
MAY EMPLOY WOMEN.
. Early in November a report was in
circulation that the Imperatritsa Maria
had gone to the bottom and that nearly
all her crew had perished. Latter, on No
vember 11, Berlin reported by wireless
.nn..nMj w , fi-in f Kii. agent service that a single bureau should
.t,i h,I rerhe.t the Rusarian co.st anrt ! Iook aftPr both ha,ves of the worI one
I" - " "-- "-.Ik.
To Look After Home Economics Work
in Each Vermont County.
Burlington, Nov. 24. The county
agents of Vermont in session here yes
terday listened to a report of the home
economics committee recommending that
in case women should enter the county
give every guarantee possible that ques
tions shall be decided on principles of
business righteousness and not on prin
ciples of political expediency."
MEXICANS ASK TIME.
So They Can Confer with Carranza as to
Course to Pursue.
Atlantic i itv, ,. ,ov. 4. A recess
of two weeks has been requested by the
Mexican members of the Mexican-American
joint commission to give them an
opportunity to lav before General Car
ranza the proposals formulated by the
Americans for border control;
Alberto J. Pani probably will be dele
gated bv his colleagues to confer person
ally with General Carranza and present
to him a detailed statement of the devel
opments since Secretary of the Interior
Lane presented the American program
as approved by President Wilson.
lhe Americans have earnestly at
tempted to convince the Mexicans that
such an agreement, as has been proposed.
would be advisable, hut General Carran
za s representatives have insisted thus
far that they cannot concur in a plan
which they maintain would involve the
humiliation of their country.
Luis Cabrera, chairman of the Mexican
commission, and IgrmVio Bonillas proba
bly will remain in the i nited States
until Mr. Pani returns, or they are offi
cially informed of the de facto govern
ment s desires.
The Americans probably will spend the
recess at their homes.
,nflneJ thn dstrii. tion of the dread- H" "K economies anu me omcr
nought, which it was stated had been
sunk by a mine near Sulina, or Feodos-
sia island, at the mouth of the Danube.
lhe Imperatritsa Maria was a new
dreadnought. She was launched in 1114
niHi uin iicviu k.,". ,na. villi, to . . ... . ,
and crew numbered about 1.000 men. The. . . r : " ' ""s
vessel was 550 feet long and had a draft !tne. f.ew '"n1. M' ucrs' as
of 27 feet. She was armed with ten 12-1"1"''"" " ---I" 'K'.
This forecasts that Vermont may in
the future employ women to look after
the interests of the housewife in each
county. .A special committee, headed by
'Director Bradlee of the Universitv exten-
inch, twenty 5-inch and four 2.5-inch
guns and four 3-pounders and four torpe
do tubes.
PAPER HEARING DEC. u.
Federal Trade Commission Iavites All
Interested to Attend.
Washington, 1) C, Nov. 24. The fed
eral trade commission to-day nxed on
Tuesday. Several county
also attend.
next
agents will
TWO PERSONS KILLED.
And Over Score Dangerously Injured in
Train Collision.
Kansas City, Mo., Nov. 24. Two men
were killed and more than a score of
persons injured, many of them, it was
DEER'S ATTACK FATAL.
John F. Stanley Was Driven into Lake
by Infuriated Pet.
lwiston. Me., Nov. 24. John F. Stan-
ev, superintendent ot the Auburn fish
tcherv, died yesterday from the ef
fects of injuries received and the shock
sustained when he was attacked by a
buck deer and driven into the lake.
He had cared for the deer the past four
years. Superintendent Stanley was born
at Dixfield, 76 years go. He had Wen
in charce of the hatchery for about 20
yea rs.
at the State House in this city last even
ing to canvass the returns of the votes
cast in this state on Nov. 7 for presiden
tial electors. They adjourned later nntil
Friday, Dec. 1, without completing their
task, because of obvious errors discov
ered in the returns made by the clerks of
six towns and one ward to the secretary
of state.
The places concerned are Alstead,
Croyden. Eaton, Groton, Hinsdale, Mil
ford and ward 12 of Manchester.
These officials will be notified by the
secretary of state to correct their returns
before the meeting next week.
At the session last night the Republi
can state committee was represented by
its chairman, Philip H. Faulkner of
Keene, while the Democratic state com
mittee had three representatives present,
Sec. Robert C. Murchie, his brother. City
Solicitor Alexander Murchie, and Excise
Commissioner Robert Jackson of Con
cord.
Asst. Atty. Gen. Joseph S. Matthews
and ex-Sec. of State Edward N. Pearson
were present by request of the governor
and council to give advice upon legal and
official points involved.
It was brought out that the Republi
can state committee had secured trom
the different town and ward clerks certi
fied statements of the vote for presiden
tial electors as declared in their various
election districts, and that these certi
fied statements differed in five towns
from those made to the secretary of
tate, although they were made by the
same officials.
The net result of these variations
would be a gain of five votes for the Re
publican electoral candidates, reducing
the apparent Wilson plurality in New
Hampshire from B3 to 5H.
In a large number of towns and wards
technical, but not numerical, errors were
made by the officials in reporting the
returns. In most of these cases the votes
were reported to have been cast for
"Hughes" or "Wilson," instead of for
the candidate named for electors. No
objection was made by either side to the
counting of these returns as correct.
have been heavily taxed. A considerable
delegation from this city motored to
Graniteville and joined their Bane Town
comrades in marking what Socialists of
Vermont hail as a red letter event in the
annals of their party.
An interesting program had vocal and
instrumental numbers, readings and
speeches for its features. Alderman C.
H. Reynolds of the fourth ward in Barre
spoke in the capacity of a Socialist office
holder who has "arrived," inasmuch as he
is the second member of his party to
carve his Initials on the fourth ward
bench at city hall. As one who is on his
wav and will not have realized his goa
until he is officially seated under the gild
ed dome next January, Representative
elect James Lawson gave his hearers an
idea of the kind of legislation his party
stands for and spoke gratefully of the
confidence reposed in him by the Barre
Town electorate. After the exercises re
freshments were served and there was
dancing.
The program as carried out was as foi
lows: Piano selection, Herbert Gulliver j
vocal solo, Miss Lawson of East Barre;
recitation, George Lawson: solo, Miss
Wilson; comic song, Sandy Anderson;
speech. John Haneran, who spoke of
pwty matters; solo, Miss Katherine
Murray; sword dance, Misses Josephine
and Mary Will of Barre; vocal solo, Alex
Emlay; recitation. Miss Gladys McRae;
recitation, Sam Mattson; solo, .Mrs. Jo
seph Will; solo, Mr. Stuart; comic song
and recitation, John I. lallaghan or
Barre; remarks. Alderman Reynolds and
Representative-elect Lawson
ALL ON BOARD
WERE SAVED
The British r-spital Ship
Braemar s Ale Was
WAS FJER MINED
. OR TORPEDOED
The Ship Was on the Way
from Saloniki to
Malta
London. Nov. 24. The British hospital
ship Braemer Castle of ,280 tons gross,
bound from Saloniki to Malta with
wounded, has been mined or torpedoed in
the Aegean sea, it was officially an
nounced to-day. All on board were
saved.
The disaster occurred in the Mvkoni
channel, the announcement says.
Mykoni island is in the .Ecean sea '
about 100 miles from Pirueus. A narrow
passage separates Mykoni from the Is
land of Tino.
ALL NURSES SAVED.
Drowned From Britannic Were Stokers
and Engineers.
Athens, Wednesday, via London. Fri
day, Nov. 24 (delayed). All the nurses
on the Britannic were saved, as far a
known. The drowned were stokers and
engineers.
REPORTED SUNK,
REACHES PORT
Greek Steamer Barbara Was Said to
Have Been Victim of German Sub-
marine Her Commander Re
ports Uneventful Pas
sage. St. John, N. F., Nov. 24. The Greek
steamer Barbara, recently reported tor
pedoed by a German submarine while on
a voyage from Wales to this port, ar-
rived here to-day. 1 he captain of the
Barbara-reported an uneventful passage.
COERCED INTO MARRIAGE.
Rutland
Was
BARRE MAY GET IT.
Headquarters Company of the Vermont
National Guard Possible.
WINNING WHEAT LAND.
Dec 12 for another public hearing on believed dangerously last night when a
the news print paper situation and in-1 passenger train southbound on the St.
vited manufacturers, jobbers, newspaper Louis & San Francisoo railroad collided
publishers and otheia interested to ap- head on with a Rock Island freight train icatinn of all-the Rumanian troops west tlielsea and Secretary George IL Stak
pt-ax. in the suburbs of Kansas City. vf Craiova. pole ot vinookb
Teutons are Capturing Great Tracts in
WalUchU.
London. Nov. 24. The Teutonic allies
in the Walla, hia province are keeping
up their advance against the Rumanian.
The operations there, a-cirding to the
latest Herman official communication, are
progressing in accordance with our plans.
Semi-official advices from Berlin are
to the effect that General Von Falken
hayn's army up to November 21 had
taken M.'s square kilometers of wheat
soil in Wallachia and, wiih the capture
f the railroad, had shut off the common- j
DEMOCRATS HAD CONFERENCE.
What the Vermont "Untecrified" Did
Was Not Given Out.
Jinnies E. Kennedy of Williston. Demo
cratic national committeeman, and mem
bers of the Democratic state committee,
met last evening at the Pavilion hotel,
Montpelier, and discussed matters of in
terest to the party. Announcement was
made that only routine business was
transacted and this was not made public
A number of Montpelier Democrats vis
ited the rooms occupied by the committee
ilurinc the evening.
Among those attending were George
Root of Newport, Arthur Gleason of "ft.
John-burr, H. C. Comings of Richford,
P. If. Pollard of Prootorsville, C. L. Gates
of M.irrisville, F. H. Duffy of Rutland.
M. J. Walsh of White River Junction.
.l..hn Rock of Ludlow, H. O. O'Brien of
Barre has a chance to get the head
quarters company of the Vermont Na
tional Guard if it so desires, according to
statement made to-day bv Captain
and Adjutant C. N. Barber of Barre.
Such a company would be composed of
58 men. and would consist of three di
visions, (1) non-commissioned staff offi
cers, (21 a regimental band, and (3) a
mounted orderly section. The band would
lie made up of 2S men and the mounted
orderly section of Id men and a sergeant,
the third division making up the remain
der of the total of 5H men.
Under the new law the organization
would have to drill at least 4S times each
year and the men attending the drills
would get one-fourth the pay of their
grades, with additional pay for encamp
ments. A hall would be secured for drill
ing purposes. It has In-en suggested that
the present Citizens' hand might be turned
into the regimental band and become a
part of the Vermont National Guard, or
a new organization might be started
from musicians in general throushout
the city.
Captain Barlier has received assur
ances from the officers of the regiment
that Barre can have the headquarters
company providing steps are taken at
once to form the organization. He al
ready has received some encourasement
from men who would like to no into the
company, and it is suggested that other
who may be desirous of joining -h
communicate with Captain Barlwr
Man Asks Annulment-
Sinoe Married Again.
Rutland, Nov. 24. Claiming that ho
as forced to marry his first wife, who
as Miss Margaret Barrett of Water-
Iiet, N. Y., or go to jail on a serious
barge, in which the woman who later
became his wife was the complainant.
Charles J. Connell of 64 Grove street,
who last November married Miss Doro
thy Carnell of this city, (ks to have
the first ceremony annulled.
Yesterday's session of county court
was taken up with the introduction of
testimony in behalf of Connell. Attor
ney Fenton appears for him, while Mrs.
Connell. No. 1, is represented by attor
neys John T. McXamee of Troy, N. Y.,
and Dorsey of this city.
Council, who is only 23, came to Rut
land nearly two years ago and shortly
after his marriage to Miss Carnell ho
was arrested on a charge of bigamy. This
case is still pending.
On the stand to-dity Connell said ho
first met Miss Barrett at a party in hia
father's saloon in Watervliet. Later ha
was arrested on a statutory charge and
while awaiting trial he was summoned
to the office of the district attorney.
Connell said Ex-Mayor Quinn was pres
ent also and they arranged for his mar
riage to Miss Barrett as an alternative
of a jail sentence.
Rev. Edward T. Reilly performed tho
ceremony, tonnell said he did not live
with Mrs. Connell.
He said his parents never consented to
his marriage, that his mother said he
had better go to jail. A few months
later he was arrested on a charge of
abandonment for which he served a sentence.
SHOWS IMPROVEMENT.
Thomas Brady, Hurt in Quarry Two
Weeks Ago, Talks with Friends.
Report from the City hospital this
afternoon stated that Thomas Brady, a
quarryman who was severely injured at
the J. K. Pirie quarry on Nov. 0, when
he was struck by a chain and knocked
into the quarry pit, a depth of 25 feet,
showed considerable improvement to-day,
coming completely to his senses and
alking with his friends. Brady sus-
ained a broken back in the fall into the
uarrv. besides receiving a bad blow on
the head and many abrasions.
TALK OF THE TOWN
F. W. Smith returned to his home to
Woodstock this morning, after visiting
relatives on Seminary street during the
past few days.
Walter P. Scott of Orsnge street has
returned to the city from an extended
business trip throucli the middle western
tates in the interest ot r.. A. Kugbee
o.
Mrs. I. N. Fl-ke. who has been visiting
the home of Mrs. E. L. Smith for a
few d.tvs, has gone to Koxbury for a
sojourn' among friends, before returning
to her home in California.
Charles Beard of Brookfield was among
the city visitors yesterday. Willianistow n
business visitors and shopper in the,
citv yesterday were Norman Pratt. Mrs.
Frank Tucker, Mrs. II. Recor and H. L.
Warden.
Thomas Forbes of Merchant street.
,! 'who is taking a vacation from his duties
st i in the Hub restaurant, left the city last
their earliest convenient, as the chance ' evening for New Haven. Conn., to wit
to secure the head.insrt.is t-nnipanv ie- the Har ard.Yale football game Im
probably will not be held open very morrow. Mr. Forlx-s w ill be absent until
loug. " weak,
