Columbus is the Only Port of Entry and Naturai . , , way. From Old Mexico into New Mexico
Vol. VI.
lie golnrebu gonfief
Columbus, Luna County, New Mexico November 24, 1916.
No. 23
LANS LAZULI
rticle on what appears the
greatest n' mH' valuable
find in the history f Ameri-
, ran mineralogy..
i: A. L. Taylor
Lust
pro?l'
a be.
North
Herm.i
first i'
was st
as to the history of lapis lazuli, i
its loniuiois ot trade niovemcn. i
and its commercial value.
Anciently it was used chicflj '
as a gent by the Orientals aim j
iionr.twd gem a so prodigally -ai '
they. Their palaces were in
letc-ribaldy beautiful witSi tin
lusters of Kern decorations, am
August two diirert'iit , lapis lazuli held its place as sin
is picked up "float" ofjond to none. The Mohammv
ul blue stain in the dons introduced these gems int
torn part of the Tros the Eurojiean royal households.
. mountains. It was Where lapis vases and crow.
micd to be copper but jewels still are among the Irons-
igely blue. The assay
evcalt i n. copper and yet a
trails presentiment haunted
iat this was somehow
i ter all. Again a wan
.(I up other "float"
nd its way to El Paso,
mineralogist, L. II
the men
uf valui
derer pi'
which f
where
ures of all the crowned heads
in France one vase sln.pcd as a
boat is valued at $J17.200. Even
now the higher class jewelers
are offering lapis gems in all
forms of settings, at from three
to. five times the value of gold,
Duik lor bulk, and it will doubt-,
Pavis at once classified it and less maintain its place through,
.mnounceit us value and general an time as a gem. !
posture a- tne prospector outlm-1 rnor to the war now raging
d it. No one nnd as yet looked m Europe, tne color extract of
iver the ground and the extent the rock was imported bv Amor-
or nature of the deposition was ican firms as a dye. At the
not known. I-olIowing the pub- outbreak of this war the impor-
7rff.v gh'-n it. the first prospec- tations ceased. The price at
low hun ied to the scene of their that time to the American firms
finding- and Incited seventeen was $100.00 an ounce. Since
lainis. then m this country all dye
A careful observation of the stuffs have doubled in value.
locality showed an astonishing making the present dye value of ! 'hat had roused the spirit of independence,
wit. ... ..in, I'AS'iOIt itUNlNu COMPANY
Oh ii.i-J M. E. CHURCH INSTALLING MACHINERY
The Mack Mining Compnn.
The topic of the League Meet- who have a number of claims in
in next Sunday; evening will be. the Tren Hermanas Mountains
'"CuHvating Tile Thanksgiving liave been shipping ore "and "the
Spirit." Mrs. Bnlliiigur will eturn have encouraged them
lead the study of this timely to install machinery for the
.subject. Come with your heart ..using of the ore to the surface
teeming with praises for the, The company is composed ot
,ast year, wjth its blessings and John Peter Mack, P. K. Lemmon
inercios, and thus help your Jr., and others, and they are all
brother man to a better view of 1 very much encouraged with tin
life and thus glorify God with present prospects.
tne truit of your lips.
On next Tuesday evening at
7 :30, the League will hold at the
church a debate on the question
JOHNSON-N EWTON BOUT
HEADS GOOD CARD
Larry Strouer, promoting
Resolved: That the liible should ngnts in tne urystai uieatre at
bo brought in the public schools. H118 "la?e; "0 ywwwy signed
A good deal of interest is being oiTf nil Johnny Newton, weltei -awakened
in this coming discuss- weiKht champion of the United
ion and you are very cordialy ?. atef ,""' to rmcf 9,?1'1'?1
invited to hear it Hoyd Johnson of the twelfth
This will be followed by a busi-' c!l,ry 11 ten-rounder on the
ness meeting and a social hour"1''11,1 of December G. Johnson
to which all are invited to rL..' "as been cleaning up all the nnx-mnn-
ers of the welter class around
q jthe Mexico camps and now
According to the time honored ?tr?"er say he is to find out
custom of the church of God in I Juat ,how K?,0(5 .the ?oy fromu;
America.wo will hold Thanks-1 ""'airy r.eally is. Larry picked
!vi,i.r un,io i. ..i, -..i, la good trial man in Newton. Hup
The first Thanksgiving in 1621 was an expression of the hope Thursdiv pvoninir Nov inth nfl Buckeye boxer will lead Johnson
iiuu iiru is bim 7;3o. Chaplain Myron O. Beebe . y tliaM:' ILS ouier '
THANKSGIVING DAY PROCLAMATION
trcn that carried the blue color this material reach about $200.00 dominant and the American people should thank God for that moreen pmich. and you are earnest-, trine tnat tne weIlcr champ will
which was pronounced to beian ounce or $2,-100.00 a pound. I 'ban all else. iy urKe(j Q attend this service i lnit tllK sniiner on the sore-
bni: lazuli. I.ocntors rnshpil This materia is the world's During the year past New Mexico and our whole country have ' u,i i,it, 11U ,,.ii fi, ,.! J shanks slammer before the fight
:ot!" scene and at this writing I chief source of ultramarine col-; been wonderfully blessed. Material prosperity is at its zenith ino giver of every good and per-'Kes fo,ur rountI?- Red Young
ipiw.rds of seven hundred acres onng. as a color it never de-l" C,V1C progress is unmisuiKanie. fuct ,,jft- jtr ueet,0 is a cifted 101 U1C fuco,ul nio iniamry nno
hricf tti,i.. I" UUIlKll! IlUlie Ul iNUWIOIl S IS lO
terior-r.tes. and its value as a dye With much of the world aflame with the fire's of hatred, begotten devoted Minister of Christ, thor-'
ire thus covered.
Consultation of the recent mid to artists doubtless will by unrestrained ambition and greed, we, thanks to the good sense n,eMv interested in his plumon ' K on In tno semi against Pug
price it "r people nnd the wisdom of those in authority, are at peace ,york and in the uplift of the Uoyle" ll,c ''urtn Meld Artil-
eological survey gave no infor- maintained preceeding the Euro- with al the world. After all "Peace on earth, good will toward communit
tar on as to this immediate lo- pean war. I men is tne sentiment tnat giorines ami ennobles; m01,t inthn mw n-nv nl.iro l.i
countries that hiwe pro-! iON i MhKhrOKk, in accord with the proclamation or the i(Cfs !Vo him a large enthusi- WE VTIIFIt SOUNDS SOMF
this material have been President of the United Stales, lime honored custom and the law ustio congregation. ' THtXT. I ikp wiVjtp
IVrsia Armenia. Chilli f the country, I. WILLIAM C. McDONALD, Governor of the Special music will also bc
ER
The temperature has been a
way down this week and very
hi i't n iv thn r imnrtniKnt if never be ess than the nr co t oi our neo iie ana me wisaom oi inose in nutnoruy. are at neacc . ni tn i,a
wlinm hia .,imint ery ouiui win ue on nanti ai inc
mt mi n in Hi mmm n in. Dean war. men is ine scniimeni uiiu uioriues ana ennuoies: man nikmivmnHlioi.il onuuci nuw
ahty carrying any thing of The
slue. In fact while the Tros duced
fermniins tnonntiiins nro envnr- Chinn.
d in great detail as a whole. ' and Russia. Being an oriental State ot iew Mexico, do Hereby proclaim IIIUUhl)A, iO bM-1 providetj.
v s marked Product American meUillurrric i". i:i. a.- hi.iaiiivumi jmi. o
a granite porphyry in superin-1 cnemists were never caned upon inaimsHii"K i ' '""': UJ ", ni. ii iium u nat l am thanktul for. i of ten the remark would be heard
;jmbent position with the sub- to give their attention to it. This he celebrated as a day of good cheer, of -kindly conshlfration. Foi. Llfe th its actrviliesr. its' -'feels like winter" The worst
rata unknown or undeterm- probably accounts for the fact ' Carctul thougntliiiness will give us due regard lor tne Happiness possibilities and privileges, yes, trouble was the coal man was
l. It is this oxidized body of tnat tne claim Holders wlio nave oi an. and its responsibilities as well, 'out and we had to buv Mr Blairs
tai'stone that is the Hiilmtrnt sent specimens to manv chemists In individual lives, in the family reunions and in the houses of oli ! Its cood to he alive, to hnvo ,if . .... r' wu'
lad that carries the lapis deposit and schools of mines have as yet 1 worship may our minds turn to noble thoughts, our hearts be part and place in God's great weather is somewhat warmer at
atcrbeded and widely ffuscd received out tew replies. Amor-'"""' uianuiumess anu our ulih ub uirecien u me lessening scneme lor this old world, with nrpsmit nml tin. Tnnrior intnfiK
trough the enormous extent of icaus are as yet unfamiliar with' of the burden of the poor and needy, the weak and lowly. its awful burdens and its needs, to be better prepared for the
'Its depth and suprising reach of it-. Howevor the department of' Due consideration for the cause of humanity ought to result in 1 nm thankful for little child- next cold snap.
itreu Being or the same lime mums aim mining at waslilngton me greatest uii-soing u im itrwn iicuim-. ren and tneir merry shoi'ts and
Jen -it as the zinc beds (carbon- H. C. have reported that it is; Done at the Executive Office, this the, laughter. For the birds with . L. M. Case has been kept in-
ifem is era with Pennsylvainian the true lapis lazuli together i -uul . ei"er. .. u. iid. tneir songs, for the fields, now i r me past iew nays wim
fossiU) it is only reasonable to with its analysis. The Colorado Witness my nana anu tne (.reat seal so brown and sere, yet once so " severe attack ot la grippe, but
of the Slate of New Mexico.
william c. Mcdonald.
Dres, .me that the one vreneral and cati'omta scnoois ot mines'
oxidation, of which the zinc in hnve reported favorably uuon it.
but . part, is of similar depth P'-rt gem judgr-s and diamond Attested: . .
and (ienosit This is consorvn- cutters declare it to hi genuine ANTONIO LU( ERO. secretary of State.
tivelv estimated at nut less than 'apis. Chemists who are faniil-i . .
three hundred feet. The up- iar with dye chennstvy as a spe-,iiiAWATIIA EXCHANGE 'JUDGE PEACH HAS
full of fruitage for the sen-ice of 's able to be up again
i man. For u.' Mowers that bio
mined in such infinite profusion.
N. B. Hampton's new building
will soon be completed and he
Ui,e fit? . th?f t COur80 , wl stock up with a complete line
heaal that came subsequent toicial branch are btiy with the
tne deposition ot tne superim- prouiem oi mo oxiracuon oi me
posed porphjry have lifted the1 dye pigment but so far have
oxldcd lime to no less than this niatie no report.
wunuer of feet with the Inpis in tne meantime me cinim
png limorock still in place at 'holders are resting easy so long
tie base of tho mountains. The 'as they know this to be the real
deptl, of the zinc mine workings I article and are letting the chem.-
uid 'tie uphenval when taken to- ists wrestle with their end of the
jether are the basis of this cal-1 problem, confident that shortly
culation. the success of some scientist
This deposit being widely dif-lwi11 be announced.
fuseo through the lime, the
method of extraction has not as i NEW POSTOFI-ICh
ALMOST CUMPLBTHIJ
HAS SMALL FIRE
VERY BUSY WEEK
let b i n announced bv chemists.
IPresu-iably the first of the pro-
Icessei- win be the crushing and
eotnpi. e pulverizing of the rock,
I'hen subsnuentlv treated in
Ssoms . hemicnl wnv that frees
jthe color completely from its
Jfock particles.
Ihe claims have beeji busy ascer- J Boost Columbus bj imtroniz-1 most Influential menibers ot tne
"uning all that is knoVn both ing tier industries. 'ul"uuo
The new postofilce binding is
being finished this week, and it
is expected to be able to move
into the new quarters the first
of next week.
A gasolene stftve exploded in I Thia has been one of Judge
the Sanford building Thursday I Peach's busy weeks. The dock
afternoon which sot the house et hns never been Iongcr in onc
on tire out uy rapid worn me weuk in the history of Columbus
finmes were soon extinguished.
Had the building burned it no
doubt would have burned the en
tire block. The Hiawatha Ex
change occupy the building.
though tho week following the
closing of the clubs last summer
was a close second. Bootleg
whiskey is certainly playing its
part in the criminal docket.
Ernest Cox was charged $5
and costs as a result of taking
making the heavens, if I wil but
lift my eyes to see, an endless
delight. For home and loved
ones. For my country and its
of furniture.
Mrs. J. A. nnd Miss Floy
Moore returned Thursday from
institutions, the best on the I an extended visit in the east.
planet. But most of all for the Miss Moore left here March 11
wonderful salvation in Jesus i and Mrs. Moore left May 1.
Crist, provided for my soul, and '
Dr. E. M. Brady lias moved
l.:.. ,1.,.,..,1 ..Olo, n tli.- imllrlincr
which has formerly been used 'too many drinks
as the olllce of the Justice of the Ella Reece was assessed a line
Pence. Judge Peach has his of-' of $25 and the costs for selling
fice in the old Peach restaurant. J intoxicating liquors.
, , . . . I J. A. Hughes, James Stewart,
Wheeler Calhoun Jr. arrived Dick Riehani anu chares Johns
at the home ot wr. anu ins. , fi . $5 , th t
all the world, at such infinite
cost.
"Our Fathers God to thee,
Author of liberty
To thee we sing;
Long may our land bo bright,
With freedom's holy light
Protect us by thy might ;
ureal God our King.
COUNTY WILL BE
IN GOOD HANDS
Work Shirts and Overalls
When you buy work shirts or overalls you want something that will
stand up under hard wear and give satisfaction in fit and convenience.
Our work shirts are made up in several colors and vary in weights and
materials from the light chambray to the heaviest of flannels and wool
ens. They arc manufactured by the best shirt makers in America and
arc first class in finish and workmanship.
No matter what your work may be you will find our line of jackets
and overalls suited to your demands.
the home of Mr. and Mrs
Wheeler Calhoun Sunday morn- f bli
1HK will .a ""; w . ...t - crn
can oenmuer was nneu ?ju
for selling liquors.
Frank Conners fell off the wa
ter wagon and turned in $5 to
the city along with the costs.
Mrs. Loretta Green, Harry
Green nnd Sam Craig were fined
$10 each for fighting.
J. S. Southworth gave the city
$5 for the privilege of exceeding
the speed limit.
H. W. Davis was asked to con
tribute $25 for the illegal sale of
SAM RAVEL TwUE0s-
THE DOLLAR UK DIME YOl" SPEND WITH US STAYS RIGHT HERE AT HOME
JVTTTT'' - - - - - -
J. W. Phillips has been tried
and found true to the interest
of the people as county commis
sioner. Frank L. Nordhouse is one oi
the most successful business
JOSEPH E. NORVELL men in the county or state and
will be equally as good a com-
CHURCH SERVICE AT missionor, and when it comes to
Y. M. C. A. SUNDAY Andy Lewis the peoples' rights
i will be safe-guarded.
At the army church scrvicos,. Judge Fielder will go right
to be held at the Y. M. C. A. , along in the same niannor ho al
building Sunday morning, No-'ways has. faithfully attending
vomber 26, the colored quartette i to the duties of his office.
of the 10th Cavalry will have
charge of the vocal music, ren
dering several sacred songs, tb
gether with jubilee selections.
The 12th Cavalry band will play
at the boginning of the service,
and there will be rendition of the
"Ava Maria" by Bach-Gounod on
the cornet. Chaplain Maddox, of
Charlie Hughes got a bigger
majority than Wilson, which
speaks for itself.
Sheriff Simpson has never
shirked and won't start in now.
Joe Stump is just the same
mixer as ever and will make fair
assessments as of old.
Edgar Hepp will continue to
the 17th Infantry will make the "keep the mon" and all accounts
nddress. Those sen-ices arc j accurate, except he will sign his
open to the public. lown name.
I Mrs. Smith we have spoken of
Tho rosiirnation of O. E. Parks ,olsowhfiro.
intoxicating liquors, and Nick as village clerk was accoptod at ; Clarence Morgan, bless his
and B. Nicholson were each fined ; the meeting of the board Tues- good soul, there are no better
$50 for a similar ofTonse. (jUy evoning and Trustee Cal-, surveyors made than Morgan
V.r.M.1 .no ....,i.,(l In fill Ol.o i IIro tl.n TJ , Kl Mnixva tn..
vacancy. j Tom Green Upton will keep up
J. L. Walker, the popular hard j the legislative end and Senator
i ware man, was a business visi-IKorr won t let anything get by
The Womens' Auxiliary of tho tor to El Paso two days this i tho uppor house.
Baptist Church will have a cake wcek. You have got to hand it to
and pic sale at Carter's store on Gus Hicks and L. M. Case have Vaught as a political prophet.
Wednesday November 29th. , purchased from H. J. Kane his Ho said his majority would hi
Sale atarts at 10: a. m. wholegao nnd retail milk busi- 700 and it was over 750, and he
r, l i ness, near the new Rnvel build-1 had "as an opponent one of the
Boost Columbus by patroniz- ing nnd will continue to conduct best lawyers in New Mexico
Ing her industries. the business at the old stand. 'Deming Graphic.
CAKE AND PIE SALE
WOMEN WILL HOLD
