Time
PAGES 1 TO 8
Jyi "OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
. VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. NOV. 24, 1916
NO. 35
THE OWO
SSO
Union Thanksgiving Service
Union Thanksfrlvine service will fe
"held Thurdeav evening In the Evangel
ical church, corner Park and Williaina
streets. Rev. O. B. Mattson, pastor of
the Congregational church, wilr give
the eermon.
Sugar Company Distributes $180,000
Approximately $180,000 was paid
out by the Owosso Sugar Co. for beets
on November 15 the first pay day of
the present season. Most of this
money went to farmers within a rad
ius of 25 utiles of Owosso, while a
.small part went beyond hat distance.
Day Studio Sold.
The Day photograph studio has
been sold by I). H. Day to Karl F.
Sternaman, and the latter has taken
possession. Mr. Sternaman has own
ed a half interest in the business for
the past two years and has been ac
tively associated with Mr. Day.
Winter Tax Rata $9.92.
The collection of 6tate, county and
special taxes will begin Dec. 1, and the
rate is 9.02 on. $1,000. This does not
include sprinkling, weed cutting, curbs,
sewers, or other specials. The summer
rate was $10 20. making a total for the
year of $20 12, about the usual total,
but slightly less than last year because
of a much lesser state tax
ii
Big Mortgage Discharged.
The General Motors Company's $20,
000,000 mortgage given to the Central
Trust Co. of New York in October,
1910, has been discharged and the dis
charge was recorded in Shiawassee
county as well aa many other counties
where the company had property which
was included in the mortgage..
No Arrests of Desecrators.
No warrants have vet been issued for
the villainous youths who entered the
Episcopal church at Durand, Nov. 12,
and destroyed the church , property.
Some evidence has been obtained and it
is hoped the guilty parties will be pun
ished regardless of their age, or other
circumstances.
' Addition to Greenhouses.
M. A. Herrick is adding a 50x100 foot
greenhouse to his buildings north of the
city limits in which to cultivate roses.
He has recently completed a 20x50 foot
addition which is used for violets. The
Snnnyside greenhouses under which
name he does business, is building up a
large wholesale business In addition to
the retail trade.
Fire in Club Rooms.
.A tfinrt Srfntf a n Q Ctrl Vity nlraa tmm
a wireless out fib being used by Paul Ball
and II. A. Sherman on top of the Alii
i ; son store building, falling on electric
wires started a blaze in the Masonic
club rooms in the Citizens' Savings
Bank building. Monday, which fortu
nately was discovered and put out by
Van R. Pond and George McClellan be
fore much damage was done.
i
Revival Meetings for Qwosso.
At a meeting Thursday morning of
the Shiawassee County Ministerial as
sociation with eight ministers in attend
ance, first . steps were taken looking to
an evangelistic campaign to be held in
a tabernacle in Owosso the first five
weeks of tte new year. The sentiment
was very much in favor of such a re
vival and a union : meeting of the
churches was arranged to be held at the
Baptist church Sunday night wnen the
matter will be discussed further.
Extra Jurors.
Four extra jurors have been drawn
for the November term. The new jurors
are W. B Brown,- Mlddlebury; H. W.
Spltler, New Haven; George Dutton,
Perry, and T. M. Carmody. Rush tswn
ship. VI-
The drawing of extra jurors was
deemed advitabie because the 'regular
panel is short that number. ' Two were
excused, while two. others had moved
from the county ..- before ; they . ' were
drawn.
m i m
Receives Estate of Mother.
. . j- -.
Judge Clement Smith .of , Hastings,
sitting in the Wayne circuit? court last
week, rendered a 'decision giving the
entire estate of, Mrs. Caroline Peterson,
deceased, to her daughter, Mrs) Henry
SeelhofT of Rush township, in this coun
ty. Mrs. Peterson deeded real estate
worth $5000 toher daughter.and gaveher
deposits in Detroit banks of $5000 be
fore her death. William titolt of San
Francisco, half brother of Mrs. SeelhofT,
who had been paid 2000 for his inter
est in the real estate, but who was left
nothing at Mrs. Peterson's death, and
Roy Herald, administrator of the estate,
began suits to annul' both transfer,
claiming incompetence and undue in
fluence, but faileJ to convince the
Judge. ,
GETS $1,000 VERDICT
Durand Man Injured by Auto Colli
sion Wins Suit.
Henry Ball of Durand, was awarded
11000 bv the jarv which heard bis suit
against Elbert Henry and Charles Van
Slyke, automobile dealers, whom he
claimed were responsible for injuries he
received when a car which they were
demonstrating for John Loss ran into
him and permanently injured him.
Ball was compelled to exhibit his leg in
court to show the extent of his injury.
The defendants claimed that Ball's con
dition was due to an old injury. The
case will undoubtedly be appealed to
the supreme court.
m m
Hlbert-Holtzhauer.
The marriage of Miss Fredia Holtz
hauer and Alexander Filbert was sol
emnized Monday evening at Salems
Lutheran church. Rev. T. G. Hahn
officiated in the prefence of a number
of friends and relatives The young
people were attended by Charles Wiet
zke and Miss Sarah Coakes both of this
city. Prof. Win Rudow rendered
Lohengrin's bridal chorus.
Following the ceremony the bridal
party went to the home of Mr. and
Mrs. George Osborne on North Ball
street, where a wedding supper was
served.
Both young people are popular among
a wide circle of friends. They will
make their home for the present with
the bride's sister, Mrs. Geo. Osborne.
Friends extend congratulations.
Cast of Senior Play.
On Monday evening, December 11,
the senior class of the Owosso high
school, will present the annual senior
play. As has been announced they
have chosen this year "Green Stock
ings," an English comedy. The re
hearsals are under the direction of
Miss Caroline Barber and .the cast of
characters is as follows: Misses Lil
lian Converse, Marie lleyer, Ethel
Stoncr and Celia Murphy and Cecil
Rhodes, Arthur Pierpont, Robert Mar
shall, Raymond Kaulitz, Harold Crane
and Carl Giffcy. The play will be pro
duced at the Strand theatre.
Word was received Wednesday by
relatives of the death in Saginaw of
Mrs. William Needham, 04, mother
of Mrs. Charles Lahman, of this city.
Mrs. Lahman has been with her moth
er for some time., Mrs. Needham has
been ill for the past two months with
a complication of diseases and died at
5 o'clock Wednesday morning. The
remains will be brought to Owosso
probably on Saturday for burial.
Reception and Marriage.
EASTON, Nov. 18. A reception
for the present pastor of the Church,
of Christ here, and his bride, and the
wedding of a former pastor, were held
last night at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. E. T. Spitler, prominent memb
ers of the church. The guests of hon
or at the reception were Rev. and Mrs.
Lyman G. Blood, who were married on
November 8 in Grand Rapids, while
the former pastor was Rev. R. R.
Cook and his bride was Mrs. Marion
Little, formerly of Owosso.
Following the reception Rev. and
Mrs. Blood was presented with a sec
tional book case, as a token of the es
teem of friends. A three-course sup
per was served.
After the repast, the "wedding of
Rev. Cook and Mrs. Little was sol
emnized, Rev. Bld officiating. The
bridal couple was attended by Mr. and
Mrs. William Spitler. They will re
side on the groom's farm near Chesa
ning. Mrs. Cook is the mother of Mrs. E.
T. Spitler.
In addition to the two newly mar
ried couples named, there was a third
bride and groom present. They were
Mr. and Mrs. Adams, who were 'mar
ried only a few days ago. During the
latter part of the evening the guests,
to tlje number of 100, had'gteat fun
pelting the newlyweds with rice.
C
Warren Pierpont has purchased the
residence of R. N. Gibson on Ball St.
and will obtain possession on January
1st, when Mr. Gibson will remove to
Detroit to engage in the real estate
business.
St ml. G. Houghton, formerly of
Laingsburg, was chosen circuit judge
of Bay county at the recent election by
a majority of 56.
Misa Helena Tick spent Wednesday
in Pontiac, where she went to look into
a position offered her by a Pontlao
newspaper.
Mrs. Geo. M. Dewey entertained the
Girls' bridge club at her home on Oliver
street, Monday afternoon.
Mrs. H. B. Sturtevant is reported
slightly impsoved after an operation at
Harper hospital in Detroit.
AUTO STRUCK BY TRAIN
Ocoupants Are Unhurt Although Ma
chine Was Smashed.
A touring car owned bv Mrs. E. E.
Swimm and driven by Clarence Sack
ner of this city, was struck by an Ann
Arbor freight car at the Shiawassee
street crossing, Sunday, the party of
four escaping absolutely unhurt al
though the car was dragged several
rods and badly damaged. Sackner did
not see the train until too late to get
the car entirely stopped, but sufficiently
so that it turned with the car aud was
carried along right side up with the
four occupants in their seats.
City Pays Costs.
The citv commission ordered paid,
Monday, the costs in the case of the
Auditor General of Michigan vs. Sadie
Greenman Woodard in which the city
and state tried to enforce payment for
the pavement laid in front of the Green
man property on North Washington
street. The city and state lost on tech
nicalities and the costs paid by the de
fendant, which the court ordered taxed
against the plaintiff the state acting
in behalf of the city should rightfully
be paid by the city.
LOCAL NEWS
Michigan creamery owners arc said
to favor the selection of Senator Fred
L. Woodworth, of Cascville, for state
dairy and food commissioner and have
named a committee to so inform Gov.
elect Sleeper. Senator Woodworth
would fill the position to the satis
faction of the people of Michigan for
he is square in his personal dealings,
is competent and has the courage to
discharge the duties of the oflice
honestly. We are for Woodworth for
this place or any other he may wish
from the Governor.
Judge Hook, of the U. S. district
court in Kansas City, Mo., decided
holding the Adamson eight-hour and
wage law unconstitutional. The de
cision was made after a brief argu
ment in order that the case may reach
the U. S. supreme court for a decis-j
already started, are to be heard at an
early date, while a. number of other
railroad companies intend to bring
suit to have the law declared uncon-j
stitutional, claiming that the case de-1
cided does not involve all the points
in question.
The board of control of the Jack
son prison has selected Capt. Brice P.
Disquc, of the U. S. army, to take
charge of that institution to succeed
Warden Nathan P. Simpson, resigned.
If he measures up to the Simpson
standard the people of Michigan can
not make any complaint. Capt.
Disque was detailed several years ago
as cavalry instructor for the Michi
gan National Guard and recently has.
been in charge of a U. S. prison in
the Phillipine Islands:
Republicans of this county who
heard Representative W. P. Martin,'
of Iouisana, at the Republican Club
banquet ifi this city in April last, will
be pleased to learn that he was on
Wednesday given a certificate of elec
tion, having defeated 1119 Democratic
optxment by 9!) votes. Mr. Martin is '
classed as a Progressive Protectionist. I
Like many other southern represen-,
tatives he is a warm friend of Con
gressman Fordncy.
Frank M. Marsh of Atlanta, Georgia,
spent a few hours in the city Saturday
calling upon a number of bis friends.
Mr. and Mrs. Marsh were in LansiDg
visiting a sister of the letter and Mr.
Marsh found time to make a brief visit
here. He reports a busy year in his
business and that it would have been
greater but for the fact that it has been
impossible to fill foreign orders.
Dr. R. J. Tick of Detroit, spent Sun
day and Monday at the home of his
mother, Mrs. Fred Tick, Corunna Ave.
Mr. Tick has his office in the Kreege
building and is always pleased to have
his old Owosso friends call when in the
city.
The board of trustees of the Congre
gational church has re-organized for
the coming year by electing E. O.
Dewey as chairman and W. A. Seng
miller clerk. The board is having a
number of repairs made upon the
church building.
John VanWormer, aged 23, of Colo
rado Springs, obtained a. license Tues
day to marry Miss Winifred Davis of
Shiawassee township. The bride is 19
years old. The girl's brother obtained
a license the day previous to wed Misa
' Eloura Springs of Shiawassee township.
I City Treasurer A. T. Wright Is at
Swajze hospital and will submit ito an
operation for an-obstruction of tbe
bowels.
SENATORIAL ASPIRANTS
Ch ase S. Osborn, form .r governor
of Michigan, in an interview given out
at the Soo yesterday, declared he
would be a candidate for United
States senator in 1918. For a consid
erable time this matter has been spec
ulated upon, but Governor Osborn has
always said he had no taste for legis
lative functions. However, if Osborn
4 1 . .
iiuiMa 1 ue run, we may look tor some
yhirlwind campaign, for now both
nomination and electiou will come at
the hands of the ieople rather than
through the lejnslature. as was the
case this year when Charles E. Town-
send was the first senator in Michigan
to be both nominated and elected In
direct vote. ' I
But Mr. Osborn will -.nrobablv not
be alone in the race. For the last two
years a consistant lxom has been pro- j
moted in favor of Alton T. Roberts,!
of Marquette. He has already lined
up some strength in the state and no!
oppoortunity has been overlooked for
booming him by those behind his can
didacy. If Osborn and Roberts fight
it out against each other, it will be a
case of Greek meeting Greek. Osborn
and Roberts were once close friends
and both came from the U. P. But
they had a falling out during Osborn 's
administration as governor and Os
born demanded the resignation of
Rjoberts as member of one of the state
boards. The feud had been on since
tljat date. If they go after the prize
itj will be a battle. Roberts has as
imich money as Osborn. He can't
make as good a spcechj but he makes
friends. Osborn makes friends and
has made some mighty substantial
enemies. It would be worth looking
at.
But it is not likely that they will be
allowed, to have the game to them
selves. Judge William L. Carpenter,
of Detroit, very nearly entered the
fight this year against Townsent, Alex
Groesbeck, recently elected attorney
general, has aspirations. The attor
ney generalship was merely a step
ping stone that will mean financial
loss to him. Chas. B. Warren. Renubli-
cA national committeeman., has-been
prominently mentioned as a liklihood.
Congressman Patrick II. Kelley might
well consider he is entitled to pro
motion and a whole lot of friends of
Pat would be in the game to push him.
Indeed they are already pushing him.
Congressman Joe Fordney who will be
chairman of the ways and means com
mittee of the house in the next con
gress, might certainjy figure he had a
right to consideration alter his long
and faithful service in the house. And!
then there are others who are ambi
tious. Surely Mr. Osborn will not be;
alone in the fight, but then he loves
a, battle anyway, and will doubtless
welcome opposition. Grand Rapids
Herald.
Milk Producers.
At the meeting of the Shiawassee
County Milk Producers' Association last
Thursday it was declared by Prof. A. C.
Anderson of the M. A. C, that the in
crease in tbe price of milk was neces
sary and would remain, claiming that
it costs $1.00 or more per hundred
pounds to produce milk aud the price
received now was $2.
G. H. Chilson, Detroit milk inspector.
urged the farmers to cleanliness that
disease would not be spread as1 in the
past through tbe mils supply, citing an
epidemic of scarlet fever whfch started
In a family supplied with milk from a
farm where the family were ill with
scarlet fever. He stated that in 1003
a large per cent of the milk that went
to Detroit was watered, but today none
was. He stated that Pasteurized milk
was selling for ten cents a .quart, class
A milk twelye cents a quart, and certi
fied milk eixteen cents a quart. Fed
eral authorities ate to investigate the
high cost of milk 1n Detroit soon.
The association elected the following
officers for the coming jear:
President J. W. Hurst, Owosso.
Vice President--J. H. Brown, Byron.
Secretary-Treasurer E. P. Sherman,
Caledonia. . j
Herd Commitaee D. D. Dntcher, B.
E. Hardy Frank Thompson.
Purchasing Committee G J.Thomas,
J. F. Smith, J. M. Walsh.
Contract Committee A. L. Chandler,
J. W. Hurst, A. F. Loomis
Sanitary Committee Wm. Rothney.
Charles Payne, C. S.s Baldwin.
Harry Lake, arrested in Detroit
last Thursday by Deputy Sheriff
Houghton on a charge of jumping a
board bill of -$43 at the Sam Hoover
boarding house in Owosso 18 months
ago, was again placed on probation
by Justice Friegel. Lake agreed to
pay the board bill and his probation
(enu is five months.
.Practical Economy
Baking powders made from alum or
phosphate may be bought for a trifle less
than Royal Baking Powder, which is made
from cream of tartar, derived fromgrapes.
Alum powders are not only cheap, but
they differ greatly in leavening power.
If a cheap baking powder is used for a
fine cake and the cake turns out a failure
there is a waste of costly materials worth
more than a whole can of the cheap bak
ing powder.
Royal Baking Powder produces the
finest food, and its use therefore, results in
an actual saying.
ROYAL BAKING POWDER CO.
New York
Damage Suit.
The attention of the circnlt court
during the week has been given to the
trial of the damage suit of Hugh Mc
Donald vs. L. C. Hall, Sr., L. C. Hall,
Jr., W. F. Gallagher and E. J. Herrick,
brought to recover damages to the
amount of $25,000 for alleged conspiracy
and false arrest growing out of tbe case
of the people vs. L. C. Hall, Jr. After
the attorneys for the plaintiff, A- L.
Chandler of Owosso, and James Pound
of Detroit, had submitted their evi
dence, Judge Kelley S. Searl of Ithaca,
who is presiding, directed that the case
against Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Herrick
be dismissed as there was no testimony
given that could in the least implicate
them in any way. It is expected that
the case will not be completed before
the first of next week.
NORTH OWOSSO FARMERS' CLUB
There was a good attendance at tbe
November meeting at River Bend, with
Mr and Mrs. A. T. Stewart. Alter an
enjoyable dinner, A. T. Stewart called
the meeting to order and asked W. S.
Carson to preside. Rev. Oatroth offered
prayer. After a business session the fol
lowing officers for the coming year were
elected: President, A. T. Stewart; vice
president, W. S. Carson; secretary and
treasurer, W. S. Carson; chaplain, Mrs.
A. T. Stewart; director, P.' G. Wil
loughby; reporter, Mrs. E'O. Place.
Miss Edna Wllkie sang two songs
that were much enjoyed. Miss Eleuor
Willoughby rendered two violin solos
accompanied on tbe piano by Mrs.
Stewart. Mrs. C. Greenwald read a
selection. Mrs Place read an article
entltled, "Independence " Some of us guished and the girls departed feel
are much more independent than j ing that they had had another happy
others, but none of us are really inde-
pendent, real independence is indeed
impossible; there are two marked
classes in the world, those who depend,
and those who are depended upon; it is
better to belong to the latter class
Rev. Ostroth was present. He was
aeked to give a short talk. v He said he
had enjoyed being at the club meeting, '
and that he was thankful he had lived j
to pee Michigan voted dry, and hoped
to live to see America voted dry, toa. I
Efficiency In Housework. Why is it
that some women who e regarded as
good housekeepers, always have time
to read or make calls, or entertain a
friend, and others who nave no greater
cares are busy at some routine house-
hold task from morning till night; the
difference is one of efficiency. No
woman is an efficient housekeeper who
tries to do everything with her own
hands.
A vot of thanks was irlven to those
who so kindly entertained us. The
meeting closed with a song, and repeat-
log the Lord's prayer.
The December meeting will be wish
Mr. and Mrs. P. G. Willoughby Decern-
ber twenty-one.
1
Judge Bush has made an order com
mlttlng Louis Rocello, aged 13 year?,
to the Industrial school at Lansing,
Bamuel, aged 10, his brother, is with
Louis at the Dorcas home in Owosso at
present and he will be sent to the same
institution if the officials will receive
him.
Mra Charlotte Evans of Et Maod
street, was called to Lansing, Wednes
day afternoon, by tbe critical illneaa of
her son, Arthur Evans. He is suffer
Ing from black diphtheria, and accord
ing to his physicians, has practically no
chance for recovery.
Mrs. Addie Linabury has accepted
a position in the Corunna postofiice.
Camp Fire Girls Meet.
Sixty girls gathered at the Y. W.
C. A. rooms at 5:30 on Friday even
ing, the occasion being a grand coun
cil fire of Owosso 's Ave groups of
Camp Fire girls. A delicious supper
was served by two members from each
group. After this the girls donned
their headbands, honor beads and
ceremonial gowns. These are all
beautifully symbolic, each symbol
standing for something attained or
something toward which that particu
lar girl is striving.
Mrs. Ii. G. Mattison in her pleasing
manner presided as chief guardian
and giving the wohelo call, called each
group into the circle. Then followed
the fire lighting ceremony, the weird
Indian charts and motion songs, dem
onstration of work, of the different
oJ" .t:a -1 vv. new . jiiciuuers . unq
conferring of rank."'"' Those taking
rank were as woodgatherers Bernico
Howell, Carolyn Melchers, Ruth
Pavnc. Margaret flpffs. Mnri-nrol:
Pitts, Lucile Osmer and Florence Nel
son. As firemakers, Esther Lyon,
Marion Monroe and Reva Woodman.
The Osceola group as a small token
of (heir love and appreciation of their
guardian, Miss Leona Baughman, pre
sented her with a guardian's pin.
Following this Miss Mary Brewer
gave the girls a most helpful talk on
one Of their laws, - "Hold onto
Health." She closed her talk with a
description of the beautiful health,
pageant" and morality play recently
given in Battle Creek.
The council closed by singing
"Mamma Moon," the fire was extin-
memory to look back, upon.
BURTON
Rev and Mrs W S Ostrander spent
Wednesday in Carland- Mrs Mabble
Sinclair of Jackson, spent part-of two
aaT ,a8C eeii witn Meaaames unar-
lotte Dormer and Eliza Glover Mies
Marv E len Brooks spent 8unday with
M,8S Harriett Cadz Mrs Ray Craw
80rd of Durand, is a guest at the home
of Mr an(J Mrs A J Randall Mrs
Martha Martyn returned home from
E,sIe the last of the week after pending
a week with her daughter and husband,
Mr anJ Mrs Claud Allen and family
11 Ballev ha8 t"01. 'm h8 fm
southeast of this place to Burton, for tie
winter Winona Bromley of Jackson,
um ,,lsl weeK 10 8Pena 80me
witn grandparents, Mr and Mrs P H
Wilkin Mesdames E R Vincent H
Schroeder, J Sherman and E B Simp-
80n "Pent Tuesday evening with Mrs U
0 Stiff and famV Mrs Mary Col-.
returned to her home in Owosso
the firflt of tb wrek after 11 vi(sIt w,tn
ber Parents. Mr and Mrs H Scott
Tbe Christian Endeavor society of the
M P chorch will hold a business meet-
ing Tuesday evening. Nov. 28tb, in the
church parlors. The jnnior members
'and their mothers are especially Invited
j to be present Rev, W S Oetrander
preached a powerful sermon Sunday
! morning from Esther 4:10 E W
Mason and family were guests at dinner
Sunday, at the borne of his nephew, U
G Stiff and family Farmers are now
turning their minds to fall plowing
since getting through with their bet
and threshing their beans Ralph
Schroeder aud his slsterf Miss Elsie,
entertained the Builders' Sunday school
class at a corn partv, Friday evening.
Musto and games followed the business
session, after which a delicious two
course luncheon was served to about
twenty-five.
