1
ArOL. LXXXIII.
BRATTLE 13 ORO, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1910.
NO. 47V
Touch Up the Dining Room
FOR THE HOMECOMING OF
THE CHILDREN
Buffets from $17.00 to
Dining Tables from
Dining Chairs from $1.25 to $18.00
Dinner Sets from $5.67 to $100.00
And" lots of little things which will add great
ly to the attractiveness of the table for the festive
day.
Everything lor Housekeeping
BRATTLEBORO
On Account of ihe High
Price of Corn Goods
We suggest our CRl'SIIliD
and (IROUXD OATS.
We also have received sev
eral thousand sacks of
ISXH-LERa', GRAINS.
BREWERS' GRAINS, and
MALT SPROUTS.
The sale of our READY RA
TION' is increasing daily and
is used hy many of the largest
and most discriminating feed
er:, in New England.
E. CROSBY & CO:
You will find no safer or
more profitable means of
Investing your surplus funds
than we offer In the way of
First Mortgages on Improved
farms In Oregon, Washlnn.
ton, Idaho and Montana.
Each property Is personally
Inspected by an officer of
this company. We buy the
mortgages outright, reissu
ing them to you In any
amount from $500 un. All
payments of Interest and
principal made through this
omce witnout charge
Now is the Time to Get the
PJck of the Fall Styles
Ladies' and Men's Tailored-to-Order
Suits and Overcoats
Ladles' Suits, Skirts and Heal y Coats
for Fall and Winter Wear
Might up-to-duto In cut, stylo ami
finish, Como In and look tliem over.
WALTER H. HAIGH
Custom Tailor Elliot Street
SCOTT FARM
E. C. TENNEY, Mgr.
Blue Ribbon Guernx-y flutter and I'urc
bred Hull Calves for sale.
Visitors alwars welcome. Orders taken
now for pure Maple Bjrup.
$100,00
7.00 to $65.'
SON & SON
FLOWERS
Loose or in DESIGNS enn al
ways be had at right prices of
HOPKINS, THE FLORIST
Main Street, Brattleboro
R. G. BOYD
Manufacturer of All Kinds of
Silos, Watering Troughs, Tanks
and Lock Joint Boxes
Also General Woodworltlngund Uinckeraltliinir
WEST UltATTI.EUOHO, Vf.
Embalmers and Funeral Oireclois
I'honc 351-W. 57 Main St., Ilrnttleboro, Vt.
Vt. I,UetiFel9l-lft). N. II. License 237.
Mn-siioliuosotts License ITia
Hammocks, Couches,
Croquet
CLAPP & JONES'S
The Melrose Hospital
WEST ErtATTLEBORO. VT.
Well equipped for the care of medi
cal, surgical and confinement cases, also
chronic Invalids, rheumatics, nervous and
mild mental cases. Skilled nursing, good
food and reasonable rates.
DIL K, It. LYNCH, Supt.
Helena D. .Mnthews. Matron.
EXCLUSIVE U N OEItTAKING
onb & gan
Embalm era
Automobile Berriee Telephone 2CLW
uitArrLKBono vr.
SPECIAL NOTICES.
STRAYED -Two red and white speck
It d yearling liell'eis. Notify ('. N. PIOimY,
Marlboro, Vt. 4fi-47
CHIROPODY and BUampoo Parlors
switches, pompadours, combings made up
to order. MILS. i. P. BAILEY, 117
Main St. Phone. 18-tf
SLATING AND ROOFING of All kinds
and chlmnev cleaning done to order.
B. D. TOIUtKY, r.9 Frost St., Itrattlebo
ro. Telophono 47G-W.
FOUND In ins pastuie in Wei-t Hill a
Iwo-vt ir. old llnlnleiii lu lfei Owner can
have urn by provlni; propcrf. and pav
ing i barges. J. J KNKJUT, Putney, Vt.
17-1!)
AUCTION
M.iMiig iccentlj be injht from Mrs.
f'hiulis Itbhiirdsoii of South Vernon. Vt.,
the farm l'!opcrt kr iwn as the Fred
Kioun faim, ho will hell by nubile auc
tion Tuesday, Dec. 5, 1916
at 1 o'clock
The duii iiiUh, (1 young he.leis, calves,
i t' ; cue iinpoited Jersey raw, one hlgli
glnde i eglsti'icd Jersey bull -:!() head or
more In all. Several Chester Whl'o
breeding sows, rue reglsteied bo.ir, shouts
'Hid pigs. Some III or !ii) tons of hay; al
so oat and no straw Hill be sold.
CLARK BROS.
No man can add one
i "bit to Ills statins by tnkluvc thought
but he can add to his standing hy Ink
'ng ItiMiinnce. Life Insiiinnce pays u
iMMital dividend every morning and every
night suie. ami soinullinot at noon. Nil-
tunnl Life- Insurance Co., Montpcller,
vt (.Mutual) tmn year.
ALDERT C. LAIRD, Special Aaent
Abbott Block, Brattleboro Vt,
A Savings Account
Is Always Worth One Hundred Cents on t
The bottom may fall out of stocks, real cstato may fieprcclato in
valuo, mortgages may bo uncollectible, or difficult to collfect.
But a savings account is always
want tlio cash.
Thoro aro over 11,000,000 dopositors in tho United St ites, with an
avorago deposit of over 54G0 ono of tho greatest tribute J to tho wis
dom of tho American pooplo.
Got tho savings habit. It intensifies thrift and Insure: safety. Talk
it over with our Savings Department today.
BRATTLEBORO TRUST COMPANY
PAYS FOUR PER CENT TO DEPOSITORS IN
SAVINGS DEPARTMENT
WANTED.
WANTED A competent up-stnlrs girl;
5 a week. JlltS. GKC. CIIOWKL.U
13-tf
WANTED A farmer to carry on fnrm
in small villiiKc milking 20 cows, on
share." or .salary. Address H'AllHY A.
I'lHHt'K, Keene, X. II. 17
WANTED Wo want to list your prop
erty, no commission unless a sale Is
made. Wrlto or call S. W. EDOETT &
CO. 60-tf
WANTED To hire u mun It run big
raw In my new mill In West Dover,
fteailv work. Write or inquire of D. M.
I1AL.H, Knt Dover, Vt. 47-30
WANTED .Middle aged man for
chores anil general farm work. Must
be a good milker. Address with rt Ter
ences. WALKS K. ADAMS, Dickinson
Farm, Hox SI, ilrnttleboro, Vt. 13-tf
WTNTED I'asswood, white ash and
and hardwood lumber cut 1 1 -ft. lone; and
sawed this winter inlc. boards or dimen
sion etude. Also have for sale a two
splndle arlety molder and a stretcher
lathe to turn one-half Inch to one and
one-half Inch stock. Also a ninety horse
power l'utnum engine, and an assortment
of shafting and pulleys. lU'GCi Ml'li.
CO.. Creenlleld, Mass. 17-IS
TO RENT.
TO RENT Kleven-room house near
Main stieet. Suitable for rooms and
hoarders. There never was a timu when
there was such u demand for rooms and
bonid. A good chance for someone. S.
W. HDGKTT & CO. 41-tf
FOB SALE.
FOR SALE llc;s. Tel. 211-24. C. A.
WINCIIESTKK, West Urattleboro. 47
FOR SALE Ono now. 1917, Ford uuto
mohile; 1 nretl-Kord uutomuollo- ln-Ktvoa
condition. I'AIIKUH'S GARAGE, Putney.
Vt. 41-tf
FOR SALE One extra good brood
mare; also 5 months' old colt, a nice one.
C. at. IIOLmtOOK, 12 Frost Place, Urat
tleboro. Vt. 14-tf
FOR SALE Hand-plri;ed npples, U.
Itusfets, Tiottle and llhode Island Ui ceil
ings; Baldwins graded aecoidlng to the
now law. Tel. !-!. K. A. PIIICI .PS. 17-tf
FOR SALE Kleven three year old
steers. Fine grnde, good condition. Also
three yearling heifers. Apply Fltts Farm,
West Dummerston, J li. Hownrd, JIgr.
P. O. Address It. D. G, Urattleboro. Tel.
U-15. 4.1-tf
MAY WINTER ON BORDER.
Brattloboro Boy with 74th Now York
Regiment in Texas Taylor Morso
Helps Bag 57 Ducks.
Letters lecoivcd in liratUeboro from
Tnylor .1. Morse, who is a member of
Company A, T-lth Now York regiment,
stationed almost .sinco the first of tho
Mexican trouble, at l'hnrr, Texas,
bring tho news that tho regiment ex
pects to 1)0 kept on border duty this
winter, although tho men know noth
ing positive about tho duration of their
stay.
On a return march from tho rillu
rango to their camp recently the first
battalion of tho regiment mado a rec
ord march of 'JS miles in nine hours
with full equipment.
Tho regiment during the last two
weeks has boon divided into patrols of
eight to 10 men each and is engaged
in outpost duty. Each patrol does its
own cooking and the men aro living for
tlio most part on tho game they shoot.
Tho country there is full of ducks,
quail and wild pigeons. Morse writes
that with n companion ho got ducks
in Ihreo hours ono morning recently.
Independent Voting.
(Burlington Clipper.)
The result of the election lust week
showed a strong tendency towards in
dependent voting. The time is passed
when the politicians can pineo tno
party tag ou any gieat body of voters,
licit 1 pnitles found this condition to
exist. The old time Republicans of the
West refused to be led to the polls by
the party bosses. Kvon Tammany Hall
in New' York could not hold its old
time Deiiioi'iutie vote. It was just
about the same in Vermont. Some six
thousand Ifopublienii voters in this
state refused to aceopt traditional He
publlcanlsni and east their lot with Yv'il
sou. All this simnlv shows thnt political
parties as parties are losing their
power and lulluenee. Men and meas
ures today count for more than mere
party loy'nltv. There is no magic in
the woid Ilenublican nay more thrill
there is in Democracy. The men who
Hie un for ollleo and their character and
policies are the important thinus thnt
anneal to tlm electorate.
President Wilson has shown Hint ho is
greater than his party Unit lie stands
for principles and policies iWiieh arc
more progressive and ot mmu impor
tance than tho party to which lie i'
nfiilintcd. This is the best possible
condition thnt could exist. It will
mean bettor government, stronger in
stitutious mid greater gon i.
lie Dollar
ready at hand wlicnlyou need or
THE
VERGENNES DORMITORY BURNS.
Fairbanks Cottage, Thrco-Story Struc
ture at Industrial School, Destroyed
Sunday Evening.
The Fairbanks cotl igc, a three story
structure at the A' -mont Industrial
school at Vcrgcnnes, was burned Sun
day evening, several boys escaping in
their night clothes. Practically all of
the contents includin the personal be
longings of tho oflii-c s and their fami
lies were burned. Tin cause of tho fire
is not known.
Hoys between the ages of six and
IS years wcro housed in the building
and all but 10 of tin younger ones had
left the building to attend chapel about
20 minutes before the fire was discov
ered. Two oflieers wee in the building
at the time and thev gave their first
attention to getting out the boys who
hud already gone to bed. These
escaped in their night clothing and
were given shelter ia another building.
The fire started in the kitchen, ono
theory being that , wu1b which were
hanging in back ol the stove becamo
ignited. Hoforc it i as discovered the
lire hnd worked its way into tho attic
and was beyond coimol.
The school fire :cpnratus which i
handled by the thr boys was at onco
brought into aclioi and the city fire
department was sen moned from Vcr
gcnnes but nothing ould bo done be
yond confining th blaze to the one
building.
The building was . rectcd in 18118 and
was formerly used , v oflieers' quarters
when the arsenal vns located here.
When the industri ' school was moved
, t r.Vu i-Kauu c-t orj - AJ Lu .... i.. 187X
tins was ono ot tnc tnrco buildings used
by the institution. It was of stone and
wood construction.
Tho school has .suffered a number of
losses from firo in the Inst few years.
On January .'il, 1014, tho administra
tion building nnd four weeks later the
large barn was also destroyed by fire.
FILM SUITS FOR MILLIONS.
Seven Actions Have Boon Instituted
Under Sherman Act.
Soveti suits foi damages aggregating
$18,000,000 and alleging violation of
tho Sherman ai'ii trust law have been
brought against tho Motion Picture
Patents eompaa.- and various moving
picture companies and individuals in
tho federal court on behalf of the Col
orado Film Kxclinn;i', tlie Chicago Film
Exchange and several other film agen
cies in the middle West.
The plaintiffs, wh" are engaged in
the business of selling and renting
films in interstate I'unmeree, complain
that, us a result of what is asserted to
be a combination among the defend
ants, they were ex' tailed from competi
tion, their busmen has been rendered
unprofitable, and that they have been
damaged otherwise. lae conditions
they complain of, they alleged, havo
continued since Jan. 1, 1!H!,
The plaiutills and tho losses set
forth are: The Colorado Film lix
change $300,000; Samuel Schiller of
Chicago, $140,000; Standard Film Ex
change, $t!47,r)00; George Molies com
pany of Illinois, $!)0S,000: Miles Broth
ers,' Inc., of Chicago, $2,.,t'J.'),(0(); F.u
genc Kline of Chicago, $030,000; and
Chicago Film Exchange, Chicago,
$1,000,000.
Co-defendants with tho Motion Pic
ture Patents company are the General
Film company, the lliograph company,
the Thomas A. Edison, Inc., Esseniiy
Film Mauiifactuiing company, Kalem
company, I.ubiu M nuf(icturint; com
pany, Selig Polyscoj company, Vita
graph company of America, Arniat
Moving I'ictuie con. may, Pntlm Fre
res, (ieorse KIcine, Frank 1,. Dyer,
Henry X. Marvin, James J. Kennedv,
William Pelzer. SicRmuud Lubin, .VI
bert E. Smith, (leorgi IC. Spoor, W. X.
Pelig and J. A. Iterst.
POWNAL MAN A SUICIDE.
Eugcno 3. Bcaura Dlscouragod by Long
Period of 111 Health.
Dis "iiraged l,v ill health Eugene
11. Hi ira, H, a mill operative of North
l'ow J, took his lifo by hanging him
self a a door flame at his house some
tim Saturday, lieaurn and another man
hfli been keeping house together for
several months pnst. Ueaurn, left
nl'.iie for a shoit time Saturday, drove
two largo spikes Into tho top of thu
(lour frame and passing a clothesline over
t!"'ni he hanged himself. Heforo tnk
i"',' his life he left a note on a table
nearby giving as his reason for tho net
ill health. Hesides tho note on tho
table was $10:! which Hcauia left to do-
J ay the funeral exponscs.
A now electric lamn socket has n
lock nnd key fenturo to prevent sur
leptitlous removal of tho bulb.
FOURTEEN PAGES
BRATTLEBORO.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1910.
THE VERMONT PH(ENIX
Published la Brattloboro etery Frldar.
SUBSCRIPTION PRICE $1.50 A TEAR,
$1.00 for eight monthi; 75 cents for six
months; 60 cents for foujyjrTmths ; 40 cents
for threo months. AlfSubScrlptions sjo pay
able strictly In turance, and all pacers are
stopped promptly at tholr expiration unless
tho subscriptions are renewed.
Rates of display ndvertlslne famished on
application. Small classified adTertlsemeots,
10 centa per line first Insertion, Qto cents per
line each subsequent Insertion.
(Entered at tho Brattleboro cost office as
second clasa mall matter.)
THE COST OP MILK.
What docs it cost to produce a quart
of milk? This is a question that has
been figured on extensively by different
state colleges and experiment stations,
with results considerably alike. Some
of the estimates arc appended, tho fig
urcs representing cents: Massachusetts
state college, 5.I1S; Connecticut, 4.78;
New Jersey, .'1.70; New Hampshire,
4.1.1; three stations in Xcw York, 2.72
5.10 and 4.40 respectively. The loV'
est cost named in Xcw York was ar
lived at through somewhat different es
timates on feeding, nnd the bulletin ex
plains that in some localities, espe
cially in Massachusetts, Jersey cows
predominate, while in other llolsteins,
with their larger production, affect the
estimates. Hut substantially the aver
age estimated cost in Massachusetts is
placed at five cents per quart and this
figure is unquestionably a fair estimate
for the other Xew England states. This
prico of course does not include the
cost of retailing and peddling, but ac
counts for the feeding of hay, grain
silage, lent of, pasturage, care of ani
mnls and allowances for calves nnd ma
nure. Tho total expense for keeping a
cow is plnccd at about $1)10 por year,
A prominent agitator of tho milk ques
tioned maintained recently that eight
cents w.(a iiuurer iiiu uuni ,ui ituuuuui.
a quart of milk, and many producers,
especially those of the gilt-edged qual
ity, which require special facilities and
every appliance that modern sanitary
science has provided, will entirely
agree with this estimntc. Certaiuly
five cents seems very low. If it is a
fair estimate, covering every item of
cost as pure milk is produced today,
then the average selling price of 9 nnd
10 cents is very high, for it indicates
that it costs as much to sell tho pro
duct as it docs to make it. This is nb
holutclv contrary to the general rule
of expense in getting products from
the manufacturer to the consumer.
The President uives tho Democrats
of Vermont a slap in the face by
going to South Carolina to get n na
tional bank examiner for the district
omnrisinir this state. The only in
ference to bo drawn is thnt there was
no Vermont Democrat suitable for tho
job.
Vermont needs more hotels like the
Equinox at Manchester and tho Wood
stock Inn at Woodstock. Here arc
establishments which do a profitable
business and attract visitors from all
over the country. The Equinox is to be
greatly enlarged for tho coming season,
the important changes which were made
two years ago not having furnished
sufficient accommodations. Tho fact
that Manchester has one of the most
pietuiesquo golf courses in the country
probably accounts iutu large measure
for the increasing popularity of tho
town as a summer resort.
The Boston Chamber of Commerce In
cludes in its membership several hun
dred of the ablest, shrewdest and most
successful business men of Xew Eng
land, so that its mail referendum con
cerning federal control and incorpora
tion of railroads engaged in interstato
and foreign commerce, taken recently,
is a matter of importance. Two ques
tions woro propounded. Tho first wus
ns follows; "Should tho present dunl
system of regulating railroads engaged
in interstato or foreign commerce, fed
eral and state, be supplanted by a gen
eral federal control, leaving to tho
states only certain matters of local solf
government to bo dotorinined after duo
consideration?" Tho othor question was
this; "Should railroads engaged In in
terstate and foroigu conimorco operato
under single federnl charters instead of
the present state charters?" On tho
first question the voto was yes 724, no
51; on tho second, yes 7113, no 43. This
demonstrates conclusively thnt tho
lending business men of this part of tho
country bcllovo in control of tho rail
roads through tho federal government,
nnd not through tho states.
WILL REMOVE DANGER
Twin State Co. Decides to Ground
Wires and Avoid Risk
Company to Begin at Onco Long Job
of Eliminating Danger of Heavy
Electric Shocks.
The Twin State Gas & Electric com
pany has notified nil electrical contrac
tors that beginning January 1 all new
installations which are to be connected
with the circuits of the company must
be provided with a secondary ground
ing wire installed in accordance with
the underwriters' rules. Tho company
informs the contractors that no new in
stallations will be attached to the com
pany's lines without this grounding
wire, as tho company has decided to
ground all of its secondary wires as
fast as possible.
Leon C. White, electrical superin
tendent of the company, said in expla
nation of the order that a nilo of tho
underwriters requires that one side of
the two wires shall be connected with
the earth, and the company will do
this in Brattleboro by grounding on
tho pipes of the Crowcll water sys
tem, permission to do this having been
obtained.
The purpose of this is protection to
life and property. Without this ground
ing of the secondary wire it is possible
under certain conditions for 2,300 volts
to got where persons might receive
shocks, but with the secondary wires
grounded tho greatest possible voltage
that could be received would be 110.
It is necessary to hnve one of these
grounds only every fiOO feet so that it
will not be necessary to have grounded
the wires in every hoiihe now wired
for electricity. The company will start
at once upon the long job of doing this
work ou buildings now wired and' it is
expected thnt it will be two years be
fore the work is completed by tho com
pany. It means a big expense, from
which there will be no additional in
come, but the company prefers to do
it rather than run further risk of dis
astrous consequences.
It is up to the alumni of the Univer
sity of Vermont to get busy. Gen. Rush
Hawkins has offered the institution
$100,000 conditional upon tho raisin
of $200,000 more for tho institution.
The university has mado great strides
in its progress in the past few years,
.nnu. $300,000 wlll.go n.-long-.iDy-townril
men-using us equipment, anu conse
quently it.s usefulness.
Tho conference of exports from a doz
en states, held in Albany, X. Y., this
week to deviso meuns to prevent the
spread of the white pine blister rust,
took up a subject of goneral interest,
and it is to bo hoped thnt from tho in
terchange of ideas and tho plans for
mulated something tangible will bo de
veloped in saving tho pino forests of
the eastern part of tho country, which
represent a cash value' of $200,000,000.
At the X'ew England Fruit show held
in Montpclier last week in connection
with the annual meeting of the A'er
mont Horticultural society this state
captured 41 first prizes out of 71 and
led all of the Xew England states in
the number of premiums awarded. Ver
mont also won 3 second, .11 third, 10
fourth and three fifth prizes. Maine
was second with 1.". first, 12 second, fivo
third, three fourth and ono fifth prizes.
The quality of the fruit was a revela
tion to all visitors. There were S00
dates of fruit, 200 boxes and 23 barrels
of apples.
The sales of Holstciu cattle already
held by the Purebred Livo Stock Sales
company of this town have offered ex
ceptional opportunities to farmers in
this section to get started in this pop
ular and profitable breed, and it has
been encouraging to note thnt many
small breeders hereabouts have taken
advantage of theso offerings. The next
sale of the company promises to be
larger than any of its predecessors, and
The Phoenix believes that there isn't
a stock raiser in this section who
wouldn't find it beuofieinl to attend
some of tho sessions uven if ho didn't
buy au auiinnl. Abide from the direct
benefit that comes through the local
distribution of cattlo these sales havo
an educational value that is sure to
make for a better general knowledge of
tho advantages of pure bred stock. A
feu'uro of tho coming sale is tho con
signment of 12 young bulls on which
ono or two years' time nt a very low
rate of interest may be had.
Mlddlobury Team Champions.
Middlobury collego by defeating tho
University of Vermont Snturdny wins
the championship in the statu of Ver
mont. Middlebury won over Norwich by
n score of 20-7. 'Norwich trimmed Ver
mont 7-0. Saturday 'h scoro was 0-2,
Middlebury scoring by the aerial route
and Vermont mnking two points on a
snfoty. Middlebury closed tho most suc
cessful season in its history with tho
best team it has ever put on the field.
1'ivo wins over Union, Stevens, H. P. I.,
Norwich and Vermont, a tio with New
Hannishiro State and two defeats by
Howdoin and Springfield constitute
Middlebury 's record.
MARKET TURKEYS ALIVE
Greater Scarcity Here by Reason
of New Competition
Festlvo Board Will Drain Pockotboolc
This Year Farmers Holding Chick
ens for Higher Prices.
Somo of us can remember tho tirat
in years gone by, when wo wero young
sters and had mado up our minds that
Thanksgiving would bring tho one an
nual taste of turkey at least, that it
was touali disappointment to find a
chicken on tho table. Mother would ex
plain that turkeys were not very good
that year and that "wo all like chick
en just as well."
Some enn remember how what moth
er had said stuck to us when wo reached
school and a schoolmate would exclaim:
"wo had turkey. Did you?"
"No. AVc had chicken. We all liko
chicken just as well."
Tins year it is liable to be: "No, but
wc hnd a swell pot roast, and we all
are very fond of pot roast."
A meat dealer was asked yesterday
what the turkey market promised for
Thanksgiving. He turned a pitying eye
on the questioner and replied: "There
aint no such animal."
Ho was not informed as to whether
it was pin or blackhead or weather or
just plain high cost of living that was
making turkeys as scarce as hens' teeth,
but he had become satisfied that if any
one wantca to buy a turkey of him it
would cost nt tho rate of from 45 to
SO cents a pound, and that would in
clude considerable that is not ccucrallr
considered edible.
Ho said that Urattleboro lmd sudden
ly found itself in competition with tlio
large markets. Huyers for Boston and
Xew York trade aro offering farmers 30
nnd 32 cents a pound, live weight, for
turkeys and the farmers prefor to ship
them alive at such a prico than to both
er to kill and dress them for u few
cents more.
Western turkeys in this section havo
never received much call. The Vermont
er prefers his native grown stock, but
if tho western birds aro brought in
there is every reason to believe that
the prico will bo prohibitive.
As for chickens, their price will bo
way up beyoud the reach of tho family
that used to havo chicken in placo of
turkey. Nono of tho fancy fowls aro
boiiiR brought to market yet, for tho
farmers and fanners' wives arc holding
off for high prices which thoy seont rea
sonably suro of getting. If thoy do not
got them for tho fowls thoy wilt for the
eggs, so thcro is no profit in killing n
hen unless a fancy prico enn be ob
tained. Thoro is no shadow of doubt that tho
Thanksgiving dinner this year, if tho
festive board is graced with meat of
any kiud, will be an expensive meal.
With potatoes selling at a few cents
each and other vegetables in proportion
it bids fair to be a strenuous time,
with the family pocketbook getting the
worst of it.
HUGHES FELICITATES WILSON.
Defeated Republican Candidato Wired
to President from Lakowood Wed
nesday Night.
Charles E. Huchcs, ltapublican can
didate for president in the recent elec
tion, Wednesday night sent to President
Wilson n telegram congratulating him
on his ie-elcction.
In his telcRram Mr. Hughes said:
''I5ecau.se of the cloncness of the vote
I havo awaited the official count in
California and now that it ,has becu
virtually 'completed permit me to ex
tend to you my congratulations' upon
your re-election. I desire ulso to ex
press my best wishes for a successful
udministiation."
President Wilson yesterday sent a
telegram to Mr. Hughes, acknowledg
ing his message of congratulation. The
I'lesidents telegram said:
"I am sincerely obliged to you for
your mes-iage of congratulation. Al
low me to assure you of my good
wishes for the years to come."
After the Piesidcnt had telectanhcd to
Mr. Hughes the White House mado public
seveial thousand telegrams of congratu
lation from cabinet members, govcrnorn
of states, Democratic leaders and from thr
presidents of several Iutin-Amcrican re
publics. Messages were received horn many of
the belligerent nations. Itcidying1 to the
congratulations of the cabinet the IVcsi
dent (-aid: "Ono of the last things about
the lesult is that it means four more
years of active iiscociation in public ier
vice and in that we aie genuinely le
joiced." this was taken by nunc to foiccast an
invitation fiorn the Piesidcnt to the mem
bcis of the cabinet to tenia in in office.
ORGANIZE MAOHINB GUN SQUAD.
St. Albans Men Form New CemuaHV
for National Guard.
The formation of a machine cun com
pany to bo a part of tho Vermont
.National juaul, hafi been Ve'jun ia tkin
city and the work of enlistment has
bteu started nith Cupt. Charles fi. Pfn
as recruiting officer. Capt. l'eil re-
mains iu command of Company R, his
ouiy connection nit a me inachiua gnu
company lielne tha,t f recruiting uf-
The recruitiae, mi t the auUtrid
dtrcngtli of 6I5 men and. four cntnmiN-
sioncd ofheers, will eeutinue t? nn .'.
definite time. Ajs soon as the com
piny is fully organized a suitable
place as headquarters and for &toihg
equipment will be rented, but iJrills
win e conducted at the armsry.
