f.
.1'. t
!
k
," N
FULL LEASED
CIRCULATION IS '
OVER 4000 DAILY
- :
f. WIRE DISPATCHES
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR NO. 253
SALEM, OREGON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS VjSSSAPSSA
7-
. S
GERMANS HOLD THREE
ilN CITIES IN RUMANIA
Dispatches Lend He p That Rumanians Had Succeeded In
Evading Jaws of , f man ViseFierce Fightng Resumed
f In Dohrudja20l S quare Miles of Serbian Territory
r RecoveredFighti Centers in Balkans With Western
Front 1)uiet Italiai.f.Vess Forward ;
London, Nov. 24. If German official reports today are
; accurate, General Von Falkenhayn's vise has closed still
tighter on eastern Rumania. Berlin claimed occupancy
of Orsova and Turnu-S'everin.
With Craiova, which they announced captured early
in the week, but the fall of which is not yet admitted in
Bucharest statements, the Germans are apparently now
f in control of the three largest cities in eastern Rumania.
y Whether the Rumanian army, which Berlin claimed
. . was being hemmed in about Orsova, has actually been en
j, circled was the question with which military critics here
were most concerned today. They hoped that this force
- ? had been able to withdraw with success and this hope
1. was sustained by. the rapidity of the German encroach-
ment indicating, it was believer, an unopposed advance,
i due to retirement of. the Rumanians.
t Orsova lies just at the Iron Gate across the mountains.
i Turnu-Seve'rin is nearly fifteen miles southeast of the
v lower end of the gateway." It is really a more Important
i city than Orsova, housing-tiie ship yards and buildings of
v the Danube steam navigation company. V
J One other development
i hope that the Rumanians had succeeded in retiring nom
, l the vise. That was the Bucharest statement detailing an
i attempted disembarkment of enemy (probably Bulgar-
ian) troops near Zimnicea (Zimnitza), which was appar-
ently unsuccessful. "r: "t . -'I
Meanwhile there has apparently been a resumption of
hard fighting in Dobrudja. Both Rumanian and Russian
'I statements today reported advances; Petrograd an
!" nounced occupancy of Tashul, a town on the Karlal river.
20 miles northwest of Constanza. The German ' state
rs 1 raent claimed throwing back of the Russians and said
the Bulgars and Russians were in "fighting touch" along
the Danube. . v
v ftospital-Shlp Bunk. -to the south bank. Several attacks by
London, Nov. 21 The British hospital the English at no point reached our po
eUip Braemer Castle, homeward bound, silion, being broken down for the most
C ; 0Tn:l.A 1a A1..1lr. , . V.-.. nnvf xmln. liABW 1 ' '
niino or torpedo in Mykoni channel of
the Aegean sea, an admiralty announce
ment stated today. The admiralty stnt
"ed all aboard were saved.
The Mykonla channel where tho
Braemer Castle was sunk is a body of
water lying between the Greek islands
of Tinos and Mykonos and is only about
i) miles distant from zea cnannei, tonic troops from the KumanUins, tue of
where on Tuesday the hospital ship Brl- ficinl statement announced today.
tannin fell victim to a mine, according
to the latest admiralty announce
ment. The Braemar Castle, like the Britan
nic, was withdrawn from passenger ser
vice for special transportation of wound
ed, bhe was a vessel of 0,1118 tons, tbe
property of the I'ulon Castle. Mail
steamship company of London. '
BritiBh Attacks Weaken.
Berlin, via wireless to tSoyville, I I,'.'
Nov. 24. Breaking down of British at-
tacks with heavy losses was reported in
today s war office statement describing
the western war theatre.
'At Ypres and Wytschaete bends ne-
tivity in artillery fire was temporarily
rt vived," the statement asserted,
mirtn or me Aiiero strong rire was
begun in the afternoon which extended
Miss Gerra Williams says, "Submar
ines may be all right fer folks that
linn't care fer scpnerv." When a feller
srtys, "It haint th uxmey. but th prin
jdc a' th' thing," it's th' money.
in the day's statements lent
Violent artillery duels were report
ed on St. Pierre Vunst wood south oi
the Somroe and in the district of Chuul
res. Orsova Captured.
Berlin, via hayville, L. I.,' Nov. 21,
Orsova has been captured by the Teu-
-in rne n iwncuiiin pjuin toe iruups
of General on Fnlkeutmyn are up
proaehing the Alt," the statement said.
"In Uuiuttnia's west eorner hostile re
sistance has been broken. Orsova, Tur
on and Severln have been captures."
The statement said thero were no im-
Iiortant engagements on the front of
'rince Leopold.
A titempt to Cross Danube.
Bucharest, ,lov. 24. Attempt bv
Teutonic forces to cross the Danube anil
nva,ie Rumania through Zinimicoa.-6r
Himnitzn) wns announced in today's
statement. It merely announced the nt-
tenlpt to disemburk the troops,
Pressure of jmperior forces "required
withdrawal in the Oltenio vallev to the
,0ft bank of tho Oltnti, the statement
gid.
"In Dobrudja," the statement con
tinued, "we occupied Geledic, Pnsarnli,
Kstcr, Palazuluie and Taraut "
. Serbians Get Their Own.
Rnlonikn, Nov. 24. Nearly 200 square
miles of Serbia has "been reconquered
from the Teutons in the aillies' advance
' arund Monnstir, according to the ber-
' bian official statement today.
Violent fighting occurred Wednes-
. day along tho whole front north and
west nlrd- east of Monnstir, the allies
fighting against new German forces', re
inforcing the defeated German-Bulgarian
army. The allied advances nortb-
- arU continue, counter attacks being re
pulsed.
Trench Take 1'reacb.
Paris, Nov. 24. Success of a Trench
surprise attack on a German trench near
Hilsenheim in Alsace was announced in
today's official statement. A number of
Germans were captured.
The statement detailed a lively can
nonading in the region of iailly-Saillisel
and recorded the destruction of five
German aeroplSnes in a series of 40 air
fights.
Prass on From Motuurtlr.
Pari', Nov. 24. Farther progress of
the allies west of Monnstir waa an
nounced in tbe French official state
ment today. The battle northeast of the
Macedonian eitv is continuing. The Ital-
- . .
I (Continued on page five.)
Soon To Be Mother
Has Prison Sentence
Portland, Ore., Nov. 24. Elsie Yed
dcr, age 23, who will oou. become
mother, was eutenced to from one to
five years in states prison yesterday for
passing worthless checks. She was pa
roled until after the birth o her child,
when further court action will bo taken.
Mrs. Vedder's home is n Tacoma.
W. P. Williams, who claims to be a
West Point graduate; and a veteran of
several Mexican campaigns, waa jointly
accuse with the girl, and was sentenced
with her. He received the same penalty,
ono to five years. As Williams wus led
from the room, "Mrs. vedder jumped
from her seat anil kissed him. The pair
was said to have negotiated valueless
paper in San Francisco, Portland, Ta
coma ana iseuttle.
IS VERY0E1CRATIC
Attended Public School and
Is Known As Best Mixer
In Europe
By J. W. T. Mason.
(Written for the United Press.)
New York, Nov. 2'i. A large gain to
democracy, iu Austria-Hungary, with a
corresponding fall in the power of the
Teuton militarists may be the most im
portant result of the Archduke. Carl's
ascension to tho Hnrpsburg throue.
The new emperor was not brought up
as n probable ruler of the most aristo
cratic and precedent-governed court in
Europe. Ho is only a grand nephew
of the late Frnnx Josef aud-iu bis youth
there were several lives between him
and the imperial crown. For this reason
he wns educated much more informal
ly than if the chance of his succession
to the throne had been stronger.
He attended public school lor a time
and imbibed a strong liking for democ
racy, which never has left him. He has
the reputation of being the best "mix
er" Europe has known among her niod;
ern monarchs, with the possible excep
tion ot.the Into King Leopold of Bel
gium. - '
The attitude of tho nw emperor to
ward liberal government is understood
to approximate mute nearly the consti
tutional leanings of the present German
kaiser's father, than the militaristic in
clination of the kaiser himself. For this
reason tho possibility of differences de
veloping between the German -and
Austro-Hungarian thrones must bo tak
en into consideration by the statesmen
of the central empires.
Instead of tho kaiser dominating tho
new 20 year old head of the linrpsburgs.
it may be that the" young mail, with
his physical school traditions will exert
a profound influenco upon democratic
tendencies in Germany as well as in his
own country. If Austria-Hungary, un
der her new emperor, were to give great-
er power to the people in public affairs,
it might be that the end of tho war
would be drawn nearer.
Y
I
Are Profse in Cangratula
tions Especially of the
Legislators
. One of the ponalties or pleasures
according to the way one takes it of
being a member or tbe coming lcgisla
ture, is that of receiving numerous
friendly letters of congratulations from
the many who would like 40 days jobs
during the session of the law makers,
heifiuunff -Mommy. January n.
Just nun', Joseph Hingcr, of Portland,
is congratulating the winners and in the
second paragraph, announcing that he
is in it receptive mood for the job of
scriiennt-at-arnia of the house of repre
sentatives. Tom liruse, of Portland, also has a
longing look directedto the. same occu
pation for 40 dayii and there are others
who are willing to serve their country
us serjeant-at-arms for the lower house,
and incidentally put themselves on the
state's pay roll.
, When it comes to the more important
service, .that of speaker of tho liouic,
LouU Bean, of Eugene, representing
Lane county, is an avowed candidate
and doesn't cure who knows it. The
same mav bo said- of Robert Ktanfiold.
whom the electors of Umatilla and Mor
row counties selected as their represen
tative for two years. Dr. S. E. Ander
son, of The Dalles, .feels that tbe speak
er's chuir-would be more comfortable
than a scat on the floor. And right here
at home, there is a suspicion that Sey
mour Jones is looking with longing eye
ou tbe job of holding the travel and say
ing, "Order, gentlemen." Mr. Jones
has not officially announced that he is
a candidate or even that he wants to
be but there is a rumor looting
around that he is thinking it over.
Diseases of nniinals cause fosses of
t212,O00.OO0 a year In the United
inline, iuucu mi 1019 iu&s frrveut
'able. .
VILLA LAUNCHES
FIERCE ATTACK OH
CHIHUAHUA CITY
With 4,000 Troops Renewed
Battle Attacking From
Two Sides at Once
GENERAL TREVIN0 IS
SHORT OF AMMUNITION
Apparently the Carranzistas
Are Fighting Hard Villa
In Edge of City
El Paso, Texas, Nov. 24. Ileavy
fighting between a force of from three
to five thousand -VUbdta bandits at
tacking Chihuahua City and tho Car
raiuiista garrison thero, was still in pro
gress nt noon today Mexican De Facto
Consul. , Soriano Bravo stated. Officers
nt tbe Juarez Comrnnndencia expressed
fears that tlie ammunition of tue l ui
huahuti City garrison would be exhaust
ed before night.
Yesterday nf tefnoon a train with all
the sjMrilable ammunition at Juarez was
started southward. Carrauza military
authorities at the border today had no
news of it. Duo to lack of men, only
:i0 guards were sent as escort to the am
munition train. Doubt as to the outcome
of the battle caused orders to be issued
to hold all trains now in the yards at
Juarez under steam, ready to start
south.
The heaviest fiithting in Chihuahua
City is centering in the1 western part of
the city between the waterworks and
tho penitentiary. Lato reports stated
that Villa is gaining ground and the
capitulation of the city is looked for in
official circles here. .- - '
The Villistas have gained a footnoui
upon Notnbre De - Dios, north, of Chi-
tiuaJiua City, cutting off retreat by rail
way toward Juarez, should tue Uirran
zistaa attempt it.
Ono Carranzista general, two colonels
and 100 soldiers of the de facto forces
were killed in yesterday's battle, a mes
sage .stuted. The names were deleted,
but .it is thought the general killed, may
have boen Ozuna. At the Mexican con
subtte here it was admitted that three
high officers were killed.
Mexican Consul Bravo issued a state
ment this afternoon that the morning nt
tuck of the bandits bad been repulsed
but that fightinir continued and "was
becoming more general. "
Renewed His Attack.
El Paso, Texas, Nov. 24. Another
fieroe attack upon Chihuahua City was
launched by Villistas early today. From
the southern and western sides of the
northern Mexican capital 4,000 bandits
made a simultaneous assault and at 10
o'clock today the fighting still was
in progress.
A message from General Trevluo, .
commnndinit the Chihuahua City, to Con
sul General Garcia at Juarez, reported
the renewal of the assault . upon the
city.
From tho wording of the wire 're
ceived by Grncin. it is inferred that Vil
la has penetrated into thooutskirts of
the city
A code message to mining representa
tives here told of large bodies of Vil
listas in position west of Chihuahua
City last night waiting for daylight. It
is believed Villa threw these troops
upon the city early today.
Ammunition is Shy. '
Juarez, Mex., Nov. 84. Facing a se
rious shortage of ammunition, General
Jnointo Trevino, Currnnzista command
er, made preparation today against a
new assault upon Chihuahua City by
I'uiicbo Villa, consular advices early to-j
dny stated.
In Mexican de facto military and of
ficial circles grave fears were entertain-.'
cd as to the ability of tho Carranzista
garrison in the northern capitnl-to with
stand another attack by the Villistas.
However, early today Carranzista offic
nls gave out statements that the Villis
tas were, not likely to renew the attack
today.
Official bulletins issued by the ue
facto authorities said that Curranzistn
cavalry had pursued the bandits toward.
Mapula, is nines south ot ininuanua
City.
Both Sides Lose Heavl'y.
EI Paso. Texas, Nov. 24. In Uliiled
Stntes military and official circles hers
it was, announced today that the issue
of the battle between Mexican de facto
forces and Villista bandits for iisses
sion of Chihuahua City is still undecid
ed. At the Mexican consulate here re
ports were made public that In four des
perate assaults Villa hod been over
thrown and that early last niulit a col
umn of Carranzista cavalry was driving
the bandits to the south. -
Tbe United States department agents,
Carranzista military authorities nt Ju
arez admitted that General Trevino,
do facto commander, was suffering
from a severe shortage of ammunition
before the fighting ceased Inst night.
All the available rifle ammunition lu
(Continued on page 'two.)
TR
HUtlGAR
TO BURY
THURSDAY NEXT
Body To Lie In State on Mag
nificent Altar Built 280
Years Ago
MIGHTY OF THE EARTH
TO ATTEND CEREMONIES
New Emperor Expected to
Make Few Changes. Jn
. Government Staff
HIS
FAREWELL MESSAGE
London Nov. 24. Frnnz
Josef's farewell to his nation
and his people was made in his
will, the text of which was re
ceived here from Vienna to
day. His valedictory was in the
following words:
"I bid farewell to my belov
ed people aud give them heart
iest thanks for their loynlty
and love towards me and my
house in happy days as well as
in times of distress.
"May they continue to ob
servo tho same patriotic atti
tude toward my successor. I re
member my army and navy
with feelings of deepest grat
itude for their bravery, loyalty
and devotion and am confident
that my successor may rely on
them no less than I have done."
Vienna, via Berlin. Nov. 24. In the
working room of Hchocnbrunn palace
from which for sixty -rears tie ruiea
Austro-Hungnry, the body of Emperor
Franz Josef lav in- state today, ins
hands clasped a silver and peal rotary
which the. dead monarch had always us
ed during bis hfctimo. At each corner
of the casket were great candlea, while
his favorite flowers Hues of the val
ley and violets, wore massed on either
side of the bier. Priests intoned con-
siantlv the visils of tbe dead. '
The official cause or me emperor n
death was announced today as ponton
lti and naralvais of the heart.
Just before he became unconscious,
Franz Josef received news of the Teu
tonie success in canturinc Craiova in
Kumania. ... ,.
His last words, it is said, were
nm tired."
It is oxpected horo that the fcmperor
Charles will mako a few changes in
the government staff, the main ono be
ing replacement ' of Bnron Burian, now
imperial privy counsellor wnn toum
Barchtold, who a year ago, was detach
ed from his place in the foreign office
and named master of the imperial
hoouschold that he might tutor the heir
in statesmanship and prepare him for
tho throne.
Details of Bites
Arrangements Cor tho funeral were
completed today. Tbe remains of the
late ruler will lio in the-4rott gallery,
or working room, of the palace until
Afondoy night. At 10 o'clock the body
will bo carried with tho solemn pomp
of the ancient Hnpsburg Spanish cere
monial to the chapel of Hofburg Aligns
tinor. In this ancient structure more
thnn 400 venrs old and one of tho fin
est Kiiecimcnts of medieval architec
ture In Europe the body of tho late
unvcriim will rest until next Thursday.
At 4:30 that afternoon tho remains
will bn borne to tho restinsr place oi
the Hapsburgs the ancient chapel of
the Capucines, where t'rauz josei win
join in his last rest the 13 other Haps
burgs buried there.
Monday's funeral procession wi;i in-
cludo-every member of the imperial!
household, every court officer, every
guard every footman in addition to
the new emperor and emrposs. The lat
ter two will receive the holy sacrament
at the Hofburg chapel and then the
lord steward of the imperial nou3enom
will shut the door until the next morn
ing: Then tho public will be permitted
during Monday and Tuesday to tnke
farewell of their beloved ruler. Admit
tance to HehocKriinn palace is. forbid
den the populace, so that the transfer
of the remains from that place to tb
Hofburg chopcl wos made necessary to
(Continued on page six.)
Better Tone In Market
and Trading Spirited
New York, Nov. 24. Tho New York
Evening Sun financial review today
said:
A better tone in today's slock
ninrket reflected th fact that the bear
element had overshot the market in
their continuous raids of the week
Every scrap of news to which a bear
ish twist could be imparted, every wild
rumor, were utilizer! to depress securi
ties prices. Wall street grew skeptical
ns reports either on peace or war with
Germany, a break in diplomatic 'rela
tion or tbe impossibility of a Mexican
Carstens Packing Plant
at Tacoma Burned
Tacoma Wash.. Nov. 24. Carstens
Packing company is preparing today to
rebuild a (200,000 section of its plant
that was destroyed by. fire yesterday
afternoon. -
Tho firm will have to bear tho en
tire doss itself as insurance on its
plants had recently expired and Car
stens had refused to renew the policies
on the gound that the rate waa too
high.
By coincidence, tho same condition
existed two years ago when the plant
was wipeu out in an even more costly
fire.
Tho chief loss this time was in the
tannery, the oil plant, the hair factory
ana the hog killing department. The
livestock in the buildings was all saved.-
. -
A flock of goats, led from the burn
ing structure into a maze of hose, busy
firemen and spectators added not a lit
tle to the excitement.
LONDON'S BODY WAS
AT
Funeral Was Without Relig
ious or Other Services,
Only Relatives Attending
San Francisco, Nov. 24. There was
grief today ' in tho "valley of tho
moon. "
At noon today In the Oakland crema
tory the body of the ercat novelist and
adventurer was (riven to the furnace
in the presence of"n few members of
his immediate family. Obeying his
long expressed wish, his relatives cre
mated tho corpse without religious
coremony or ritual of any kind and
without a suggestion of estentation.
The little funeral cortegft early to
day boarded a train' nt Glen Ellen.
where the lato author 's home is. ' A
few residents of the district where
London lived for years stood nt a
respectful distance from the station
and with bared bends paid, tribute as
a,,. ". , ... . ...pi oilmen iulhuuio. n wig un-
London's body was put aboard JhoVidcd to "put the whole thing op to
train fH It n.u-lua tie ,.nAnl- ...... I -.. . , .. -. ... r
train. Otherwise the funeral' was
strictly private. - -
- The party included only the window,
Mrs. Charmion- London, Mrs. Eliza
Khopard, London's sister, and J. Byrne,
his aeeretnry. When the party reached
Oakland they were met by London's
two daughters, Joan and Bess, and by
the 'writer's former wife, from whom
he divorced ten years ago. The first
Mrs. London had forgotten her differ
ences with her husband and attended
the funeral.
The bod" was taken at once to Oak
land cemetery.
Mrs. Charmion London, the widow
waa not present when her- husband's
body waa cremated. In her highly nerv
ous condition physicians warned her
that it might be dangerous for her to
leave Glen Ellen and she remained
tiere. The funeral party which ac-
ompanied the bodv to Oakland was
made up of Mrs. Eliza Bhenard, Lon
don's sister, Irving bhepanl, ber son,
and E. B. Payne, a close friend of Lon
don.
Telegrams by the. hundred poured
into Glen Ellen today bringing to Mm.
London the condolences of friends and
admirers of London in all parts of the
world. Bo numerous were these mes
sskos that tho telegraph wire from Han
'1'ranclsco this morning handled almost
nothing else.
One of the men most affected by
London' death is Johnny Heinold, of
the "First and Last Chance" saloon
at the Oakland approach to the Web
ster street bridge Heinold bad known
London from childhood and he loaned
him money when he was a boy strug
gling to get an education and other
wise helped him in early battles for
a fortune. It was Heinold who furnish
ed London with most of the material
for his book "John Barleycorn."
The only announcement that has been
made since London's death regarding
the disposition of his "Valley of the
Mfion" estnto was the declaration of
London's secretary todav that he be
lioved Mrs. London would continue the
development of the place along the
lines Loudon had planned. The title to
the place is in her uume and is practic
ally unencumbered.
agreement, failed to niter the general
situation.
Accordingly, there was spirited trad
ing today, such as has not been wit
nessed for a fortnight, not that the
volume of trading was greater indeed
it wos mnller--but that the buying
was consistently good with advances
throughout both the industrial and
railroad li.st. At mid-day there were
fractional recessions from tho curlier
high lcrels, but the afternoon the ad
vance began again, United States
Hteel movM forward to 12. Gulf
States Hteel advancb 20 points and
Hloss-Bhcffield three points. The sugar,
leather, alcohol arid paper issues were
in good demand. The specialties stood
out in strong spots. Ohio cities' gas
moved up seven points or more.
Thore was continued strength in the
late trading. United States Kteel made
a further gain of a pniut or more.
One drawback to feminine celebrity
is that one knows exactly how old she
is with every new birthday.
"It la proctlco nloue that brings the
powers of the mind, a well aa thce
of the body, to their perfection, ald
Franklin.
RAILROADS IML
GIVE PRESIDENT
- FREE HAND Efl WORK
Say They Believe He Can Be
Depended .On By . All
Parties to Dispute
CONFERENCE ENDS IN
"PASSING IT TO WILSON"
Labor Has Warm Meeting
When Adamson Law Came
Up Today
By Robert J. Bender.
(United Press1 staff correspondent.)
Washington, Nov. 24. President Wil
son will be given a free rein by tho
railroads of the country in working out
legislative remedies for industrial dis
putes. It was learned today assurances
to this effect have coma from railroad
officials.
Tho reasons are twofold. First, it
has become known tho roads, devoting
their entire time in combatting the eon- -stitutionality
of ' the Adamson eight
hour law, have not considered formula
tion of a plan which would meet tho
approval of the brotherhoods.
fiecond, the road executive believed
the president can be depended on 4y .
themselves, brotherhoods and the pub
lic to put forth a feasible plan that wilt
climiuate the strikes to which transpor
tation systems now are subjected and
which would be supported by all parties
concerned. t
It wns admitted today after frequent
conferences of the . railroad executive!
to formulate some definite plan of elim
inating strikes and lockouts, it was de-
Wilson." In this connection, it was ex
plained that the executives have reach
ed the' conclusion that any such plan
submitted by them eoulrl not be regard
ed "the best and most satisfactory
since it might be looked upon as a
measure constructed "in submission to
the acknowledged power of labor and
tempered with threat of strike by the
workers," ' ' ,
A Tentative Agreement. '''
Kansas City, Mo., Nov. 24. No iaforv
mution regarding the ngrecment reach
ed here today by railroad officials and
government representatives as to wheth
er the Santa t'e or the Missouri, Okla
homa ft Gulf ease has been setneted as
the case to test the validity of the Ad-.
r-mson eight hour law in the United
States supreme court will bo gives out
until word has been received from
Washington. '. -
E. Marvin Underwood, assistant Uni
ted Stntes nttorney general, who ba
boen in conference here with other gov
ernment representatives and railroad of
ficials, made the declaration at noon to
day. He further stuted that a reply
was expected from Attorney General
Gregory this afternoon.
Underwood said a "tentative agree
ment" had been reached and forwarded
to Washington for the approval of At
torney General Oregory. He would
make no intimation whether the .Santa
Fe or -U- O. A G. case had been select
ed. Labor Debates It.
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 24. The Adam
sou law was expected to be u football
on the floor of . tho American Federa
tion of Labor convention today. With
the general subject of the shorter word
ing tiny up for action, Socialist members
of -the federation were ready to press
home tho advantage given them hi their
long fight with tho federation adminis
tration over the question of obtaining
shorter Ijours by legislation rather than
sticking tight to lubor organization
movement.
Tho reply of tho administration i
that tho Adamson act wus thrust upon
organized labor without having been
asked for. Hpceches of tho brotherhood
hends here Tuesday to this effect wero
cited in support of the contention.
Militarism is due for further consid
erationand probuble argument with,
the report of the resolutions committee
empowered Wednesday to make a report
outlining the federation's general view
on the subject. These views will ba
(Continued on page six.)
m
m
: THE
WEATHER
in
i. Oregon: 'To
night and Satur
day rain west,
geuerally fair
east portion;
wnrmer east por
tion tonight;
o u t h easterly
winds reacbintr.
gnlo force neat
the coast.1
IP1
if:
