British Shipping Trust Is Secret
ti^At-Sea
tw« c!»f'ctti &
®bi
OPPOSITION TO MEASURE
TRACED TO FOREIGNERS
Andrew Furuseth Exposes Pro­
gram of United States
Chamber of Commerce.
Andrew Furuseth, president of the
International Seamen's union, who is
campaigning in Wisconsin for Sena­
tor La Follette, gave out an interview
In Milwaukee the other dxiy in which
he -went into considerable detail in
commenting on the recent referen­
dum by the United States Chamber of
Commerce as reported in an editorial
in the New York Times, and which
•was approved by the Duluth Com­
mercial club.
"The Chamber of Commerce of the
United States has taken a referendum
vote, and according to The New York
Times, the vote was practically unani­
mous in favor of suspension forth­
with of such sections of the law as
discriminate against American com­
merce, until it is possible to reach an
International agreement upon the
subject making the law applicable to
all nations," said Mr. Furuseth.
No Discrimination.
"Gerard Henderson, editor of The
Harvard Law Review, definitely
states that every one of the import­
ant sections of the seaman's act, by
specific terms, applies equally to all
foreign vessels coming within the jur­
isdiction of the United States, and to
American vessels. There is no dis­
crimination against American vessels
to be found in the seaman's act.
There are no such sections, and Mr.
Henderson said, at a meeting at Col­
umbia university, that the only dis­
crimination has its origin in a ruling
by the department of commerce,
which ruling has no justification In
the act itself. The ruling is to the
effect that the vessels of certain for­
eign nations are to have their inspec­
tion certificates accepted here in the
United States, and this in spite of the
specific provision in the law that life
saving appliances their equipment
and the manning of the same shall
apply to foreign vessels in the same
way as to American vessels,
Who Can. Be Employed.
"The editorial, says the 'law was
construed in a manner enabling Las­
cars, Chinese and Japanese to be em­
ployed.' There is nothing in the law
to prevent Japanese, Chinese or Las­
cars from being employed, either on
foreign or American vessels if they
can understand 'all orders given by
the officers.' 'All orders* here neces­
sarily means emergency orders or or­
ders griven in emergencies. It is of
very little importance whether the
orders can be understood by every
member of the crew under ordinary
circumstances. It is in emergencies
lhat it is important and the depart­
ment has so construed the law in its
circular, No. 265, as to make It apply
to ordinary orders given under nor­
mal conditions. This is a direct vio­
lation, not only of the spirit, but of
the letter of the law, and is contrary
to the ruling of admiralty courts of
the United States and other countries
for the past 100 years.
"According to The Times editorial,
'the vote favors the repeal of sections
regarding desertions as they apply to
foreign nations, and urges that the
state department should negotiate for
the repeal by all nations.'
Why Foreign Shipping Leads.
"It is the ability of foreign ship
owners to compel the seamen on ves­
sels while in the ports of the United
States to continue to labor at the
•wage agreed upon in the lowest-sal­
aried ports in the world, that has en­
abled the foreign ship owners to drive
the American merchant marine from
the ocean. When the National Cham­
ber of Commerce wants to continue
Continued on Page J.
President Howard Elliott of the
•New Haven Railroad declares that if
the demand of the railroad employes
for shorter hours of labor is granted,
it will increase the cost of living by
limiting production.
Mr. Elliott may be right, and he
may be wrong. But in any contin­
gency this is not conclusive argu­
ment against the wisdom of grant­
ing this demand of the railroad em­
ployes.
Pass Load to People
Of course, if all other things re­
main fixed, to decrease the hours of
labor would mean an increase in the
cost of railroad business, which wonld
have to be met by the public through
Increase in carfares and freight rates,
or through a decrease in the quality
of service which the railroad renders
_to the public.
But in this day of wonderfull in­
ventions, of wonderful organizings, of
Increasing general intelligence, it is
not necssary to assume that all other
conditions affecting the railroad busi­
ness will remain fixed and unchange­
able. There a great many conditions
tvhich can be changed and which by
_:hanging will very strongly tend to
ffset this loss in the hours of labor.
First: During the last quarter of
century, since labor organizations
Pussyfoot Johnson's Paper Leads
Fight Against Confirmation
of People's Lawyer.
-iIDS BIG BUSINESS
IN DESPERATE FIGHT
Said That League Is Financed By
Same Interests That Approve
Brandeis.
According to the New Republic, the
paper edited by Pussyfoot Johnson at
Westerville, Ohio, the Anti-Saloon
league is making a desperate fight to
prevent the confirmation of Louis R.
Brandeis as associate justice of the
United State supreme court.
It seems that 25 years ago Mr.
Brandeis appeared before a legislative
committee in Massachusetts repre­
senting the Massachusetts Protective
Liquor Dealers association in opposi­
tion to the passage of a law known
as the anti-bar law. This is the only
time in the career of Mr. Brandeis
that he appeared, as an attorney for
liquor dealers. Twenty-five years
have passed and since that time Mr.
Brandeis has come into our national
life.
Puts Up Lame Excuse
The Anti-Saloon league declares
that it opposes Mr. Brandeis now be­
cause he has never repudiated his
course of 25 years ago. This fact is
used to excuse the league for wage
ing its opposition to his confirmation
by the senate.
Now it is a well known fact that
Mr. Brandeis entertains views of the
law and its application that shocks
the large property interests of the
country and particularly the specula­
tive interests. All of the labor or­
ganizations in the United States, and
all of the forward looking people in­
terested in substantial social reform
are urging the confirmation of Mr.
Brandeis.
Joins With Big Business
Until the Anti-Saloon league en­
tered the fight against him the only
opposition came from big business
and Tory politicians. In most of the
campaigns to abolish the saloon it has
been charged that the Anti-Saloon
league was being financed by the
same interests that are now opposing
the confirmation of Mr. Brandeis.'
TMs, the officers of the Anti-Saloon
league have repeatedly denied. How­
ever, the present attitude of the
league would indicate that it is turn­
ing down all the social forces in the
country to assist big business in pre­
venting Mr. Brandeis from becoming
a member of the United States su­
preme court.
Charge Is Vindicated
Any excuses the Anti-Saloon league
may offer for opposing Mr. Brandeis
because of the fact that he appeared
before a legislative committee in
Massachusetts in behalf of the Liquor
Dealers Protective association 25
yeras ago appear very lame when
the pteople are so familiar with the
real opposition to Mr. Brandeis now.
The attitude of the Anti-Saloon
league in the Brandeis case will serve
to irrevocably widen the gap between
that organization and the great
masses of the working peole. Labor
wants something more than the sup­
port of an organization which is
merely interested in cutting out its
booze.
POWDER WORKS' OWNERS
WANT ALL THE PROFITS
NATIONAL CITY Cal., March 24.
—Employes of the Hercules Powder
company are protesting against wages
paid by this concern. It is stated
that the company is building a hotel
and all workers will be compelled to
board there and pay $1 a day. Cots
will be furnished, but the workers
will have to furnish their own bed
clothes. Signs are posted around
this plant warning employes not to
leave the premises.
began to demand a decrease in the
hours of toil by workmen, their em­
ployers have met this demand by the
same argument 'which Mr. Elliott
now advances. In fact, the manu­
facturers, who are usually the em­
ployers involved, had even a stronger
case than the railroad managers, be­
cause the legislature which proposed
to reduce the hours of labor was al­
ways a state legislature, and the man­
ufacturer was able to say that to re­
duce
4he
hours rf labor in the fac­
tories of the state would result in
hau.dicapping the industries of the
state in comparison with the indus­
tries of another state, where no such
law was in force.
Always Serious Argument
This is always a serious argument
for the state legislature to consider.
But the labor unions always met this
argument with the contention that
the human frame is like the soil that
the law of diminishing returns ap­
plies as forcibly to the workman's
body as it does to the tilled fields
that the more intensely you .work it,
the less production you produce by
it. They contended that by shorten­
ing the hours of labor you could
speed up the workman .and put more
intelligence into his work, and, there­
fore, more economy -ar.d more pro­
ductivity.
With the right kind of co-operation there should be
at least 5,000 more union men than there are now in
the city before the summer work sets in. The great
bulk of these should come from the common laborers.
The time for organizing the unskilled workers is at
hand. They can not be organized on wind. They must
have a slogan and it should be: "Organize and prepare
for a $3 a day wage scale.' Of course they can not get
such a wage in one lump, but they can get in shape to
go after a slight Increase this year while the times war­
rant it.
The organized skilled workers should be made to
understand that they can not go on increasing their
wages much higher unless the unskilled workers are
raised also. When there is too great a gap in wages
between the skilled and unskilled workers there is dan­
ger of an aristocracy of workingmen coming into being.
.This is positively the worst situation that could
come into the labor movement. The moment it comes,
that moment the hope for solidarity will diei Some­
times we fear there is an aristocracy of labor already
here. We would do everything within our power to
banish it. There is no place for caste among the labors
ing classes. Their interests are identical in every re­
spect.
It is folly to say that the unskilled workers can
not be successfully and permanently organized. Where
ever men have organized in any calling, and whenever
they have had the good sense to apply their intelligence
to their organization the results have always been the
same. They in every case have fared as well as the
skilled workers.
Just now we are thinking of the section men on the
Canadian railroads. These men are organized from
coast to coast. Their union is 100 per cent strong.
Their minimum wage is $2.25 a day. Their nnion is
one of the most staple in North America. They pub­
lish a splendid journal which is. edited by a Minnesota
man, from Warroad, and it contains many fine articles
of educational value to all workers.
The Canadian Northern railroad runs through War
road, and so does the Great Northern. The lines run
very closely together at this point. On the Canadian
Northern section men are paid $2.25 a day. They are
working under a union schedule A short distance
away on the Great Northern Sutton men are paid ftut
11.50 a, day. These mathaia*
NEW YORK DRESSMAKERS
SCORE GREAT VICTORY
NEW YORK, March 24.—Dress­
makers* union No. 50, affiliated to
the International Ladies' Garment
Workers' union, has won its five
weeks' strike and secured a signed
agreement with the Manufacturers'
association in this industry.
Hours are reduced to 49 a week
and wages for piece workers are
raised 10 per cent with a minimum
wage of $6. Girl workers receive a
weekly increase of $1 on January
1, next year, an additional $1, and
another increase of $1 on January 1,
1917.
Cutters who are paid $20 a week
or less will be* increased $2 per week,
and those receiving over $20 will re­
ceive an additional $1 a week.
NO HOPE FOR* LABORERS
THEY MUST ORGANIZE
TOLEDO, Ohio, March 24.—"The
great class of unskilled laborers must
organize if they are to get their
share in this world," said Prof.
Leiserson of the Toledo university, in
an address to churchmen.
"They can do nothing toward bet­
tering their conditions as individuals.
Organization is the solution to the
question," he said.
Nobody doubts that the labor or­
ganizations were right. The history
Of the shorter-hour legislation has
proved it. Certainly there is-a limit
beyond which this rule will not apply,
and the limit is not incommensur­
able but we have not yet reached
that limit. How far the rule will
apply to the railroads is not certain.
Probably the decrease in the hours of
Work will not be completely offset by
the increase in the efficiency, of the
Workmen. But it will have some
eect. It will be one of the elements
which will contribute to keep down
the cost of operating radlrqads at the
public expense.
Don't Apply to Railroads
Now, the railroads have not any
such argument as the manufacturers,
in a state opposing a state law which
would raise the standard of wages
above the level of the," standard of
any other state, because this demand
is upon ALL the railroads ALIKE,
and is not giving any railroad an ad­
vantage over its competitor.
Second. Mr. Elliott assumes, na­
turally enough as a railroad manager,
that the cost of operating a railroad
in the other departments than labor
will remain Axed and unchangeable.
But Mr. Elliott assumes too much.
It. may remain fixed, but it is not un­
no xinwm,
have the managers of the Great Northern railroad do
not know it.
Now this is the difference between unionism and
non-unionism. The section men on the Great Northern
AT ONCE UNDER Ttfflffi UNION BANNER
The Labor Forward committee is perfecting plans will,never get a living wage for their labor until they
for a big campaign of organization between now and
May 1, It is be)}$ved there will be 2,000 more union
members in Pulutjji before the campaign is over.
l'"
fraViBi^fTiA manaffAro JVF +1%A fi J- u*. ii.' «... ..... 7.
tbffese men. Who will be the first to volunteer? Call
at. The Labor World office for full particulars. If you
COLORADO UNIONS
AID SMELTER MEN
"The long fight, begun in 1898, by
organized labor in Colordo to secure
an eight-hour day for employes in
mines, smelters and cement mills, will
again be taken up in the near future
by the organizing forces and at the
request of employes in these indus­
tries an attempt will be made to have
those parts of the laws that were not
adopted in the meantime placed on
the statute books of the state.
"The recent 'flag of truce,' offered
by John D. Rockefeller, jr., and
pieced togetehr from the blood-stain­
ed garments of the victims of Ludlow,
has ben excepted by the company's
hirelings and thugs, but in spirit it
has never received the approval of
the company's employes.
"The spying system of the Colora­
do Fuel & Iron company makes it im­
possible for any one to demand de­
cent working conditions from these
interests and remain in their employ.
"Therefore in becomes necessary
for outsiders to take up the fight for
human rights in the interest of the
workers in the rod mills, smelters,
blast furnaces and cement works that
are controlled by these interests."—
Denver Labor Bulletin.
PRESIDENT ELLIOTTS ARGUMENT AGAIOST 8-HOUR DAY NOT CONCLUSIVE
changeable and' If it remains un­
changed, it will be the fault of the
railroad managers.
There is a vast difference in the
cost of production between a railroad
operated as a railroad operated for
the benefit of its stockholders and of
the public, and a railroad operated
as an instrument of stock specula­
tion by stock gamblers in Wall Street,
who eyes are on the ticker and not
on the trains and freight houses.
New Haven in Poor Grace
Let us take, for instance, this very
railroad of which Mr. Elliott is presi­
dent. The New Haven railroad
has within ten years lost through
waste, mismanagement and general
lawlessness, from one hundred to two
hundred million dollars. Now, that
is part of the cost of operation under
present business standards in the rail­
road world.
The New Haven is not an excep­
tional but a typical case. The Bos­
ton Maine has had the same history
recently. -So has the Chicago &
Alton, which Harriman looted. So
has the Rock Island and the St Louis
& San Francisco, the Missouri Pacific,
the Santa Fe, the Union Pacific, and
nearly all the railroads in the coun­
try.
They have been in' bankruptcy sev­
eral times, and
huge have'
„sprofits
VSTttW
ED TO ORGANIZE
organize as solidly as have their fellow section men
on the Canadian Northern.
What is true of section men is also true of other
kinds of unskilled laborers. The so-called law of
"supply and demand" will always govern their wages.
When jobs are scarce wages will be as low as the
laborers are willing to take. When jobs are plentiful
thwre is even a limit to their rise, because employers
OTpanize and see to it that they do not compete with
«fi|h other in raising wages too high.
I In Youngstown, Ohio, it is alleged that the Steel
Trust threatened to punish independent concerns if
thjpr raised wages above the price paid by the trust.
Several steel officials have recently been indicted for
conspiring to keep wages down. The outcome of their
triai. will be observed with interest throughout the
cotiptry.
But it is not necessary to go so far as Youngstown
to? I«9xh how employers of unskilled workers combine
keep wages down. Only a short time ago a group
of northern Minnesota loggers met in a Duluth hotel
and voted to fix the maximum wage for lumberjacks,
the .bosses' union is used to good advantage for the
bosses, and so long as their workmen remain unorgan*
lisM fiie bosses will have all to say about the amount
of W to be paid, and their laborers will be obliged
tp- tifcke whatever wages the bosses agree upon.
There is no way out of it for the unskilled workers
but|to organize. The longer they put it off the harder
itwill be to get, started. They must pay up for every
y$Ir they postpone organization,* and the organized
skilled workers must also pay up for the tardiness of
the unskilled workers organization. Don't lose sight
of #iis fact.
Too much' dependence has been put in political
action to improve working conditions. The unskilled
workers have been led to believe that if they voted right
politically, and keep on voting right, they will soon step
frdrn misery into happiness. But experience has shown
that|the real strength of labor is on the industrial field.
Economic organization is the thing that has produced
resuKs. The economic organizations of thew masses
possess greater power for promoting material welfare
than £11 the political organizations under the sun. One
brffcgs bread to the workers, while the other in most
c*6es brings but a stone.
'Now is the time, and this is the hour for the un
skUl^i workers of this city to organize on the industrial
ffnii
The officials of organised labor want to get in
tou$K~with.* number--of wide-awake unskilled working-
or if to devote their tima to organizing
Want to be a volunteer organizer in this great move­
ment report at once. We need you.
OHIO COURT UPHOLDlS
STATE INSURANCE LAW
COLUMBUS, Ohio, March 24.—The
district court of appeals has overruled
the decision of the Franklin county,
common pleas court, which declared
section 7 of the state compensation
act illegal. This section provides
that where employers fail to insure
their workers, the state industrial
commission is empowered to award
damages against' the employer. This
is one of the most vital parts of the
law and scores of similar cases will
hinge on the outcome, as opponents
of state compensation will appeal to
the supreme court.
NEW COMPENSATION
DECISION STARTLES
OTTSVILLE, Pa.,. March 24.—
State's Compensation Referee Houck
has rendered a far-reaching decision
in his refusal of compensation to
Sheridan M. March, a plasterer, who
was Injured by the breaking of a
scaffold at the home of a salesman.
The decision is to the effect that
March was employed as a casual em­
ploye, inasmuch as he was -working
"not in the regular course of the
business of the employer."
.been made by those who put them
in bankruptcy and who were given
control of their organization. In
the old days this mismanagement
not only came out of the public ulti­
mately, through an increase in the
freight and passenger rates, but it
used to come in the first instance ont
of the railroad employes themselves
for the wreckers of railroads, when
their conspiracy was ripe, would
apply to a friendly federal judge—a
scallawag whom they had but upon
the bench—for the appointment of a
receiver, and the judge would ap­
point one of the conspirators receiver
to. run the road during re-organiza­
tion.
How Labor Was Treated
The thing that Mr. Conspirator
and Receiver always did, was to re
ruce wages on the roads. Naturally
the railroad men struck, BUT TO
STRIKE WAS TO BE IN CON­
TEMPT OF COURT, BECAUSE THE
RECEIVER WAS AN OFFICER OF
THE COURT. So the federal judge
woUld- issue an injunction against
the workmen who struck* because
the reorganizers were trying to' re­
coup the money which they had
stolen out of the pockets of the work­
men. If the leaders of the railroad
men had the audacity to continue the,
strike, they were thrown into jail for
contempt of tcourV
Chief of Staff Declares Emphatic­
ally For Conscripting All
Young Men.
CHIEF MILITARY H£4D SHORT DAY SCHEDULE
OF NATION POSITIVE
Brigade of War Lords Use Mexi
cban Issue to Bolster Up
Cause.
WASHINGTON, March 23.—Com­
pulsory military Service in time of
peace. Two years' compulsory mili­
tary service for men between the
ages of 18 and 21. A standing army
of 2,000,000.
These are the three basic princi­
ples upon which Gen. Hugh C. Scott,
Chief of Staff of the Army, would
erect a military system into which the
working class may expect to be draft­
ed unless the war-bound militarists
are stopped in their program of "pre­
paredness for peace."
The militarists are capitalizing the
military operations in Mexico to the
limit to bolster up and inject new
life into their waning campaigns to
impose a European universal con­
scription upon the' people of the Unit­
ed States.
Wants Military Government
Gen. Scott, as Chief of Staff, is in
charge of the general program of the
Mexican invasion. It goes without
question that he will make use of his
great power to cement upon the mili­
tary policy of the government the
principle of compulsory service
which the General Staff of the Army
has secretly favored for a long time.
Gen. Scott, however, does not limit
his advocacy of compulsory service
to the secret sessions of the General
Staff. In his opinion, the working
people of the United States are the
natural food for shot and shell of
capitalistic aggression, and the soon­
er they get into the trenches and get
a preliminary taste of the ultimate
dose better it will be for the industrial
masters.
"I believe," declared Gen. Scott,
that all soldiers who have given this
matter, any thought believe that there
should be universal service."
"What do you mean by universal
service?" was asked.'
"I mean that every man of suitable
age should be available .for training
for the defense of his country."
Wants Compulsory Serrioe
"Do you mean that there should
be compulsory military service."
"Yes."
"What are would you require for
that?"
"About from 18 to 21."
"Is it not the idea of tile General
Staff and War Department to bring
about what you call universal mili­
tary service?"
"I feel that the armies of all civil­
ized countries of great size that are in
danger of being invaded have been
obliged to come to that."
"Do you favor compulsory military
service in time of peace?"
"Yes."
Pressed as to the number of men
who might be tricked to the trenches
under the banner of compulsory ser­
vice, Gen. Scott Indicated that the
General Staff conducts a fairly effec­
tive census of the cannon.fodder avail­
able even in times of peace.
All Between 18 and 21 Years
"General, how many young men
between the ages of 18 and 21 years
are there in the country who would
be elligible for that compulsory mili­
tary service."
"There are over 700,000 young
men who come to the age of 18 years
every year," replied the Chief of
Staff.
"There are about 4,000,000 young
men between the ages of 18 and 21
years in the country. What would
you think of the idea of a system
that would compel the government to
train every young man between
the ages of 18 and 21 at least six
Continued «n Pace t.
Fortunately public opinion has
compelled the courts to stop this dis­
creditable secret alliance with rail­
road looters, but unfortunately the
legal principles upon which the
courts operated have not yet 'been
disavowed. We hope'' that Mr.
Brandeis, when he takes his place
on the supreme court bench, will
help the court to disavow them, so
that these things may not happen
again, when the audacity of specula­
tors rises to its old pitch.
Looting of the New, Haven
Now, the New Haven railroad has
lost from one hundred to two hund­
red million dollars in. a short period
by aggrandizing schemes not unlike
these in character. If that railroad
were on its feet:if it had* not lost this
vast sum of money, and if it had not
suffered the consequent loss of
morale and efficiency, with their
train of evils, the New Haven would
b« amply able to mest any increase in
the cost of labor, through this de­
manded decrease in the hours of
labor, out of its surplus prosperity.
Therefore, another answer to Mr.
Elliott's contention is that the rail­
roads dan change their methods can
operate a railroad
as
it
be operated
was
meant to
as a
railroad, and not as
the victim rf unscrupulous specula­
tors.
Mr.
Elliott
is
f''
*••*$
hlmself trying to
'V*
Officials of Four Brotherhoods
Present Their Side of 8
Hour Movement.
WILL BENEFIT PUBLIC
Freight Will Move faster and Car
Shortages Will Be Less
Likely.
The railroad companies have been
getting a lot of publicity lately about
the great injury that will be done to
them if their emploj'es are given the
eight-hour day. 3f-ut they are not
permitted to get away with their
claims without reb/ttal-from the big
railroad unions whose officers this
week present the following state
ments to the public:
A great deal has been said about
the inability of the railroads to grant
I the eigh-hour day to railway -train
'crews and switchmen, and as few
facts bearing upon the necessity of a
shorter work day are here presented.
The unit of wage payment is now
based on tle moving of rolling stock
100 miles per ten hours, or ten miles
per hour. The men are now asking
for eight hours, and time and one
half for overtime after eight hours.
Both Will Benefit.
The railroad companies as well as
the public at large would be benefit­
ed by the change. All trunk lines
centering in large terminals have so
called manifest freight, leaving these
terminals each night, hauling from
1,000 to 1,200 tons of freight, which
is called fast freight service. These
trains travel over divisions up to 140
to 240 miles on an average of an
eight to eleven hour basis. In many
cases the so-called drag or dead
freight train leaving the same termi­
nal probably three hours ahead of
these manifest or fast freight trains
are pased on the road,, and the fast
freight goes to its destination in eight
or nine hours, while the dead freight
is often caught by the federal 18
hour law and has to tie up for eight
hours' rest before getting into divi­
sion or terminal points.
Hie Real Issue.
If one train can be sent over a
division of say 140 or ISO miles: in
eight .hours, 'there, is no .just reason
why the same.1'.class, engine,
another-train,%ho»ld: puT hi or
hours over the same course.- Take,
for "instance, crews on djead freight,
service, or what is, commonly callfe*
"slop freight." Out of 84 hours they
are often' 14 hours on the road. They
spend one hour after they get in,
washing up and looking after- the en­
gine, and then are ready to go home
to wife and family, tired and sleepy.
After eight hours they, are given a
two-hour call at the end of the rest
period to go to another 14 or 15 hour
trip. These men spend 1 3-2 hours
with their families, which is rjq^time
even to get acquainted with them, as
they have practically no time at
home.
Work All the Time.
These men know no day or night,
have no Sundays,—simply a steady
grind, until they are worn out and
have to lay off and in many cases
this boon is refused. If these men
were worked eight hours they would,
be more competent workers on ac­
count of having more rest, woiild be
better citizens on account of having
more time to brighten their m$nds,
mofe°e time to study the economic
questions that are of vital importance
to their own and the communities'
welfare, and would, therefore, be
more intelligent voters. On~thVsame
basis the company would be the gain­
er by always having a fresh man
going on duty at working periods, and
would be less troubled" by'men asking
for layoffs for the purpiose of getting
some rest. The public would also be
the gainer by getting quickcr service
on dead or "slop freight."
That Dead Freight.
For example, take a car of banah
Ceatlnued on Pave 2.
do this very thing and is meeting
with considerable success. Mr. Hustis
and the federal trustees .are trying
to do this very thing on the -Boston &
Maine, and are meeting with very
great success.,They have in a year
converted a deficit into a surplus, and
in a short time, if this condition im­
proves in the ratio of last year, the
Boston & Maine Will be on its fget
again merely by decent management.
Railroads' Bad History,
Now, a ehango which will make it
impossible for-a repetition for these
orgies of railroad speculation and
wrecking will completely bffset any
increased cost of labor which may
be involved in the**demands of the
railway employes, even if the, increas­
ed efficiency of the labor does hot
help very much
Doubtless Mr. Elliott will say that
the railroad managers have learned
their lesson "that the stockholders
have been the^ippft .to suffer, apd
that these coMiuons. will not return.
But "when the devil,is~sick, the" devil
a m?nk .w$uld: be^ and when the. detil
is well, thp devil a monk
7
'j
Is
he."
These periods of dissapation, ^follow­
ed by periods of reaction, repentance
and convalescence, have been the hl*
tory &f railroads dince the fijst', fie
was laid on' the .first railroads—
Boston American.
tK
