gfift& iMtitntt
NIGHT
EXTRA
vmmn
NIGHT
EXTRA
1 cr
VOU 1I.-NO. 1GG
PllILADELPIirA, SATURDAY, MA 110 II 25, 1016.
ConmaiiT, 1910, bt his Pcbiio Lkdokr Cohmnt.
price one cune
'50 PERISH, SOME AMERICANS,
IN CHANNEL PACKET ATTACK;
4 U. S. HORSEMEN LOST ON LINER
Three Philadelphians Among Passen-
gers on Sussex; One; Miss Elizabeth
Baldwin, Reported Badly Hurt.
Torpedoed, Say Survivors
m- . . t. .. i..i
Dominion jumer ungiismnan, uounu to rorciana, me.,
Sunk Off British Coast Consul Armstrong,
at Bristol, Cables That Vessel Was Vic
tim "Presumably of a Submarine"
Fifty-foUr persons, including several Americans, perished in disasters
Fm two ships in the war zone.
I The Channel liner Sussex was
From Folkestone to Dieppe. Between
?' , An enrly dispntch listed Miss
(Philadelphia, as missing. Later messages said Miss Baldwin had suffered
L broken leg and that her father and
i TnC Dominion iinur .oiikusiiiiiuii,
Portland, Mc., was torpedoed off the
Four Americans, three of them
'messages received at the State Department from American Conul Armstrong,
at Bristol.
Washington views the new undersea warfare with grave alarm. Secre
tary Lansing has cabled Consuls in England and France for full particulars.
THREE AMERICANS ASSERT
I THEY SAW TORl'EDO AS THEY
STOOD ON DECK OF SUSSEX
LONDON. March 2G. At least DO per
ions, some of them Americans, lost their
Ikes In the explosion which damaged the
Channel liner Sussex off the French coast,
rmrdlnir to survivors who vvcro landed
at Dover and who reached London this
tnernon.
It was declared that the Susex wns at
tacked by a German submarine, the look
nt on the vessol seeing the wake of tho
Ip torpedo as It sped toward tho vessel.
Some of the survivors put the list of
F -missing nt considerably more than 50. Tho
Ex dead Includo a number of" women and
'. Amnntr fhA survivors here were a nuin-
K ber of Americans. They said that there
had been between 20 nnd 30 Americans
en the ship when It was attacked.
SOME OP AMERICANS ABOARD
Othef Americans on the Sussex In
cluded
Tlngfe Culbertson, of Sewlckley, Pa., a
IHburb of Pittsburgh.
Jfra.' Dorothy Hilton nnd Miss Edna
Hilton,' of New York.
! lira Gertrude Warren, of St. Louis.
O. Penfteld. a student of Oxford.
lssAllco Rut, said to be from Colo-
vrdo. . . .
Edward Huxley, president of the United
States Rubber Export Company.
Francis E. Drake, head or the company's
European branch.
SURVIVOR TELLS STORY.
K, John II. Hearley, United States Press
itaff correspondent, who was aboard the
Sussex, gave tho following account of the
disaster:
Thrce American passengers agree that
they saw a torpedo.
t It li estimated that CO of the 380 pas-
Kogers lost their lives, though It Is pos
lible some were picked up and taken Into
Mhcr ports, .
LIFEBOATS BLOWN OFF.
The Sussex left Folkestone shortly after
Boon yesterday, under excellent weather
conditions, and was Hearing the French
port of Dieppe when she was struck. I
V vuiiversins wun oilier ,,viiit:jii.iu3
mong my fellow-passengers when an ex
plosion suddenly shook tho whole ship,
One of the Sussex's lifeboats wns blown
off by tho force of the explosion nnd splln-
ers eent hurtling high Into tehalr. At
h same time a fountain of water dashed
em the side of the ship.
It was about 4:30 when the Sussex was
struck. Many passengers were standing
Bear the rail, watching the autllno of,the
French coast, when the exnloslon rocked
the Sussex,
Several were hurled violently Into the
witer, and It was among these that the
casualties occurred.
" uoata were put over the side at once,
but I was told that several persons who
ere gathered near the rail previous to
the explosion were not picked up.
FEARED SHIP WOULD SINK,
The Sussex Hated hadlv Immediately
Iter the explosion, and It wns feared for
tifew minutes that she was about to sink.
A the Bteamshln settled nanlc becran
iboard, particularly among the women and
children. Officers ran about calming the
passengers, and In a few minutes the vessel
WPeared to right herself.
'.Thft BUrvlvnrs rumn I n pi! n linn n (nn
Basse until 11 o'clock last night, when
BlQSt Of thpm ., taban nff l,r ttm Marin
(Theresa. We were landed here early
today.
the explosion. One of them, Miss
Baldwin, daughter of a prominent Amerl
w resident of Paris,, was seriously hurt,
Her father and mother were taken to
Ifoulogne.
MANY WOUNDED,
aThe. exnloslon nnnnrrAfl forward nf the
hij), wounding many persons. The wire
SM house was shattered and for this
rgson It was impossible to summon help
W wre!e.ss. The Sussex drifted In the
H"nnel for hours, signaling In vain for
iri PassenBera who were wounded by
5uUJP splinters were cared for as well as
Possible by a surgeon aboard the ship.'
Lunsn the. Maria Theresa bora down
Cootlnutd ou V Twn, Column Una
THEWEATHER
FORECAST
W?6f Philadelphia awl vicinity
IkST''! cloudy and warmer tonight;
gunaau unsettled "bud -orobablu ahow-
Iggl gentle easterly winds.
10ST AND FOUND
KtSfJp IK karat lot Mureh 15, bua. ea:
yiyrn .awrooctf o. oia i.ttwiu'.
WSa spot over ticn eye : mo r to "Mao."
Jfef. 39 N E. Boulevard. Pb Wyo.lOH W.
t Lout 8ca fouaJ AH on Van IS
feapp and Birsky
T,......, L. ..,.,.., ,
torpedoed, passengers say, while bound
20 and 30 Americans were on the ship.
Elizabeth Baldwin and her father, of
mother Were taken into Boulogne.
uuuiiu iium wuiunuuin, England, lo
English coast.
horsemen, arc missing, according to
FOUR AMERICANS MISSING
FROM DOMINION LINE SHU'.
U. S. CONSUL'S REPORT SAYS
WASHINGTON. March 2n. The Do
minion liner Englishman, 5257 tons, thrco
days out from Avonmouth, Eng., has
been torpedoed nnd sunk, presumably by
n submarine, and- four Americans are
among tho missing, according to a cable
gram to the Stnto Department today from
American Consul Armstrong at Bristol,
England.
The four Americans unaccounted for
nie:
PETER MoDOXALD. horse foreman.
58 Cherry street, Boston.
GEORGE McDOXALD, horseman. 37
Common, Lawrence. Mass.
P. BUCKLEY, horseman, address un
known, M. A. BURKE, address unknown.
Consul Armstrong reported that 23 sur
vivors have been landed at "a British
port." Tho name of the port is not given.
Sixty, lie cabled, are believed to have been
saved, which leaves a possible shortage,
uccordlng to Consul Armstrong, of It!.
The State Department gave out the text
of Consul Armstrong's cablegiam. It foN
dows:
BRISTOL. March 25. Dominion
llie Bteamer Englishman torpedoed ;
time nnd place unknown bore. Sur
vivors brought Into northern British
port, 33 so far j believed saved 00, more
reported as possibly rescued, leaving
shortage of 18.
Folovvlng Americans were on board:
Peter McDonald, horse foreman, St
Cherry street, Boston ; P, Buckley and
M. A. Burke, horsemen, addresses un
known here; George MacDonald, trim
mer, 37 Common, Lawrence, Mass,
Their names are not Included In list
of 33 so far rescued.
Englishman was bound for Pott
land, Me.; loft Avonmouth 21st Inst.
Transported horses to St. Nazarre,
Franco, for Southwestern Trading
Company, New York. Was not on
Government business. No further
particulars at present available
Bristol. ARMSTRONG.
Secretary of Stato lousing was at a
loss to account for tho statement that the
Englishman was torpedoed, but that the
time and place were "unknown here." He
expected further reports would come, but
if these did not clear up the situation he
expected to request further data from the
American officials and ultimately from
foreign Governments. If "necessary.
Secretary Lansing has frequently said a
case like this Is even more serious than
the torpedoing of a liner on which Amer
ican passengers are killed or placed In
jeopardy, since Americans like those on
board the Englishman were pursuing their
Hue of peaceful business and, therefore,
have an unassailable right to travel on
HUoij- ships.
. Nine Women Flee From Fire
HAVERHILL, Mass., March 25. Nine
women were driven Into the snow and a
fireman Injured by a fire which destroyed
the Woolworth B-and-lO-cent store and a
clothing store early today. The loss was
$60,000.
GOPdZIA B0MBARDATA
DAICANNOMITALIANI
r
Due Villaggi ed Un Coatone Oc-
cupati sulla Grande Strada
delle Dolomiti
II commandante Interinale delle forze
Hallane operant!, contro l'Austrla annuncia
nel auo rauporto dl lerl sera, pubbllcato
dal Mlnlstero ltallano della Ouerra. Che 1
truppe ttallane hanno occupato, durante
una bufera dl neve, nuove poslzlonl nella
regions Uell'alto Cordevole, e cloe' II fos
tone nord-orlentale del Saaso dl Mexzodl'
phe'sl splnge verso la valle dl Pestoit. o
nella valte del Cordevole I village! dl Val.
lazza e dl Iluaz. Queste poslzlonl sono
tutte nella zona del Col dl l.ana e sulla
strada dell Dolomiti
Un comunicatQ ufflclale aurIaco dice.
che gll Itallanl twmbardarono lerl la testa
di ponte dl Qorlzla e le opere formicate
attorno a Jloyerety. "a nulla dl clo' un.
nunola jl eomunlcato ufflclale ltallano che
sq rlferUce alia sltuazlone nella glornata,
dl glovedlo.
(Leggere In 2a paglna altra e plu' det
tagllate notlzie bulla guerra, in Italians. )
C. C. P. Bent B. & O. General Agent
C. C. P. Bent has been appointed gen
eral agent of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad, with headquarters In Philadel
phia, the appoluunent to become effective
April 1. according to an announcement by
Arthur W. Thompson, vice president and
head, of the operating department of the
railroad. Mr. BAt was. for borne time
general superintendent of the company, In
chare of the N"w York division.
Discuss the Submarine Controversy and the Superiority of German
GERMAN GUNS
FIRE VERDUN,
BERLIN SAY
French Make Surprise At
tack in Argonne, Enter
Trench Take Prisoners
BIG GUN DUELS CONTINUE
Paris Believes Crown Prince
Now Plans Flanking Move
Against Verdun
BERLIN, March 25.
Verdun has been set on (Ire by the
German artillery, it was announced
today by the War Oflice.
Elsewhere on the front there were
no events of unusual importance.
Many shells have been thrown into
Vjtrdun by the big nuns of the Ger
mans to prevent transportation of
troops and ammunition to the HriiiR
line.
PARIS Jlanli :r.
Artillery duels were In progress nil night
In the Wocvre district, tho Fiench Wnr
Office announced todrty.
On the Verdun front, however, there
wn no attacks on either side of the Mcu'-e
nii-r.
Tho text of the communique follows:
In the Argoium a surpilse attack
upon nn enemy trencli at Courtes
C'hnussos enable us to capture some
prisoners nnd to Inlllct some losses on
the enemy.
West and enxt of the Mcine the
night passed quietly.
In the Woovre region there was an
artillery duel In the region of Moulaln
ville. No Important development occurred
on the rest o. the front.
Shifting their attack to the west of
Verdun, tho Oermnns struck at the French
positions at Vauquols, In tho Argonne ac
cording to the official report tsuod In
Paris last night.
Military writers recognize that these
Argonne operation .uu ns much a part
of the general plan against Veidun ns
tho moio obvious movements further
east, since tlis ability of tho Germans to
cut the French line hero would mean
a Hanking movement against the for-'
tress of Vci dun Itself.
MRS. KUGLER ASKS ALIMONY
Petitions Court for Allowance and
Counsel Fees
Congies.sman John R. K Scott, on be
half of Mrs. Mattle II. Kugler. against
whom divorce proceedings were Instituted
some time ago by William B. Kuglor,
today presented a. petition to Common
Plcns Court, Xo. 2, asking for an allow
ance by Mr. Kugler for counsel fees nnd
alimony for the wife, pending the pro
ceedings.
Mrs, Kugler sets out In the petition that
she needs the allowances to defend the
case and that her husband, who holds
large Interest In Kugler's Restaurant
Company, is In prosperous circumstances,
having an Income of at least $5500 a
year. It Is also stated that his holdings
In the restaurant company amount to
nbout $20,000. On what grounds the libel
lent bases his plea for a divorce has not
been disclosed but It Is understood that
the charge Is one of desertion.
CORONER WARNS PARENTS
Admonition Attends Exoneration of
Couple Whoso Child Died of Neglect
A warning to parents who, while under
tho Influence of liquor, neglect their thll
drcn was Issued today by Coroner Knight,
when ho exonerated Robert and Anna Lee
from causing tho death of their month
old baby as It was smothered to death
while both father and mother were drunk.
"Leave liquor alone and take care of
your remaining child," said the Coioner,
after Miss Katherlne Beig, a city nurse,
had testified that tho couple were good to
tluilr children when sober but neglectful
when drunk Tho parents, sobered by
their baby's death, sobbed during the hear
ing nnd promised they would take cue of
Nellie'; their remaining child, who Is 2
years old.
Conviction of Dealer Upheld
The conviction and sentence to two
years In Tienton State Prison of Isidore
Glass, a furniture dealer, by the Federal
District Court of New Jersey, for con
cealing assets from his trustee In bank
ruptcy, was today upheld by Judge, Wool
ley, of tho United States Circuit Court of
Appeals here.
BRITISH AND GERMAN
SHIPS SUNK IN BATTLE
Raider and Armed Merchant
Ship Clash in North Sea.
Both Lost
LONDON", March 25. .The German
commerce raider 0elf and the armed mer
chant ship Alcanatra have been sunk in
the North Sea in a naval battle, it was
announced today by the Admiralty,
The British losses vvero five officers and
05 men.
The engagement took place on Febru
arys!), ,
The rjerman raider had been disguised
as a Norwegian merchantman. After the
tight five German officers and 113 men
were picked up and made prisoners.
The Alcantara was a vessel of 15.831
tons gross, hailing from Belfast. The
Grelf Ts not IMed In LlojU.'s marine reg
ister. '"
The Admiralty's statement follows:
"An engagement occured February S3
In the North Sea betwon the armed Ger
man raider Grelf, dUgulsed as a Nor
wegian, and the armed British merchant
man Alcantara The engagement resulted
in the loss of both vessels. The German
vessel was sunk by gunfire ; the Alcantara
apparently by a torpedo.
"Five Germau officers and 11? men
were picked up and taken prisoners out of
a total believed to be 30Q.
"The British losses were five officers
and 65 men,
U should b noted that during the
-whole engagement the enemy fired Qve.r
Norwegian colors painted on th side of
the ifllp-"
TEHRIERS "TREE" A 3JE0I10
He Hangs lo Rafter While Animals
Watchfully Wait Then He's
Arrested
How long ,Tnrp!i .Tnckon. n negro, hung
to a rafter with threo vicious fox terriers
waiting below he does not know ; but It
seemed like a century.
He Is thankfut today he wns Hnally
discovered by n human being, even If It
did result In his being arrested to face a
charge of robbery. Jackson, who lives at
BOS South .lunlper street, was found In
the feed stnblo of Chnrlcs Wilt & Son.
1306-8 South Btreet. by the proprietor
late Inst night. He was hanging leslgn
edly to a rafter while the threo dngs
watchfully waited for him to drop Wilt
left Jackson hanging for another five
minutes while he summoned Policemen
Connolly and Wlrtrchnftcr Jackson had
a bag of loot, tho police say.
WILLARD 2 TO 1
FAVORITE OVER
MORAN TONIGHT
Heavyweights Each Confi
dent of "Bringing Home
Bacon" in N. Y. Battle
GATE RECEIPTS $180,000
By ROBERT W. MAXWELL
XHW YORK. March 25. Two perfect
strangers will step Into tho ring nt
Madison Square Garden tonight, they will
bo called to the cuiitre of the stngo by
Charlie White, master of ceremonies, nnd,
In full view or the audience. Mr. White
will speak as follows:
"Mr. Jess Wlllard, It Is mv pleasure to
introduce to you Mr. Frank Mornn. Mr,
Mornu has questioned your right to the
title of lieavvwvlght champion of the
world, and will endeavor to take It from
you within the next 30 minutes. You
have my permission to go as far ns you
like, but don't bite!"
Thereupon Mr. Wlllard will grin anil
extend' a huge paw, take Mornn by the
hand, and s,iy. "Pleased to. nieetcha I"
And Mr. Mornn will Hhnke Mr. AVIUnrd's
huge paw, and muimur: "Plensedta
mcetch.i."
They will not Indulgo In perslllngo or
Inquire as to each other's health. Thoy
will not dlseus.s the weather. Instead,
they will back oft to their corners, still
facing each other, and Moran will turn
to Ike Dorgnn and say:
"Ain't lie an awful lookln' guy? IIo's
tho biggest bloke I have over paw In my
life. Hope he ain't as bad as he looks."
And Wlllard villi pat Tom Jones on his
bald head, and casually remark:
"Tawm. whadyo think of thot little
runt, we it has the nerve to flte ME for
the chmnpeenship? Guess I'll kill htm 's
soon 's I kin."
This advance stun: ts not the least bit
oveidiawn, for Frank Moran and Jess
Wlllard never havo seen each other. Each
knows tho other's history, habits and dis
position, but they have never exchanged
a word. Moran has seen Wlllard .perform
In the moling pictures, but Jess knows
his opponent, only from photographs thnt
havo appeared In the newspapers. Yet
they have been training hard for weeks
to get Into perfect phiuleal condition for
their first meeting to mumble "plensedta
meciclia," and then try to batter tho other
to helplessness with their padded lists.
While they iro doing this, some 15.000
ladles and gentlemen from every Stato In
the Unlop. from Canada and Mexico, will
pay approximately $130,000 to witness the
performance.
The city of Xeiv York has been laid
,low with the fight fever. The big battle
tonight Irf tho sole topic of conversation
nnd, although language 'Hows freely on
both &ldts, little inoue has been placed
on the result. Wlllard Is a 2 to 1 favorite
to win on points, but few bets havo been
Cunt f mini on Vagc VA?en, Column One
"I EXPECT TO GO
TO CHAIR," SAYS
DOCTOR WAiTE
Prisoner Still Insists He
Only Bought Poison
Which Killed Peck
"WOMAN" TELLS STORY
NKW YORK, March 25. Dr. Arthur
V. AValte may lie Indicted early next
week for the murder of his millionaire
fatherln-Iavv, John E. Peck, of Grand
Rapids, Mich.
Wulte still liiblsta that he bought the
aitenlc from .which Peck died at Peck's
request, but District Attorney Swann re.
fuses to believe tjmt story.
The young dentist, who Is now a
pilsoner at Ilellevue Hospital, fully
realizes his peril.
"I expect to go to the chair," he said.
"I'm sorry I didn't die from the dope I
took I'm sick of life, 1 don't care
whetherIllvo or die."
The "woman pf mystery" in the case
ha3 been found to be Mrs, Margaret Hor.
ton, a singer." She declared her belief
In Waltu'u Innocence, and at the same
time explained her presence In White's
apartment In the Plaza Hotel.
"I became acquainted with Doctor Walte
r the Berlitz School," said Mrs. Horton,
"and afterward we continued our studies
in French and musio together at the
Plaza. I never knew that Doctor Walte
had registered my name as 'Mrs. Walters.'
My husband knew of my friendship for
Doctor Wu,Ite, and also about our studies
together and offered no objection, know
ing the Innocence of our relations."
Doctor Waits is how In Bellevuo Hos
pital, where every precaution has been
taken to guard against his committing
suicide. Although his mind Is normal,
he Is still weak from fhe effects of drugs
he tok on the day of his arrest.
, Overwhelmed when she learued on her
arrival from Grand Rapids that her son
Is a prisoner charged with murder, Mrs.
Warren W. Walte, mother of Doctor
Walte, is prostrated and confined to her
bed In the home pf her sou Frank, in the
Bron Mr. and Mrs. Warren W. Walta
are confident that (hair sou is Innocent
"Give him a chance and I feel sure that
CeaUotud en l'att Two. Column, Oo
U. S. BOLSTERS
BORDER GUARD;
VILLA ESCAPES
Fear of Marauders on Mex
ican Line Calls for
Added Forces
OUTLAWS IN MOUNTAINS
Villistas Reported to Have Fled
to Sierra Madres
From El Oso
DOUGLAS, March 25. The story
that three Americans were killed by
bandits near Columbus recently was
denounced ns a canard by U. S. army
officers here today.
Censorship is threatened in Douglas
if the publication of such reports is
not stopped.
Gen. Frederick Funston hrt3 dis
patched stronger forces to guard the
Mexican border. This was made nec
essary by the menacing advances of
marauding bands nlong the frontier.
No intimation in made that rftids arc
feared from Cnrranza troops.
It is reported that Carrnnza troops
plan to enter the United States in
pursuit of cattle thieves who have fled
to this side for safety.
Francisco Villa, hunted bandit
leader, followed his "off again, on
again" policy today and is now re
ported to have escaped the Carran
zista and American troops supposed
to have had him trapped at El Oso,
near Namiquipa.
El Paso dispatches say the out
law chief fled to the Sierra Madro
Mountains, taking with him only a
small band and abandoning a detach
ment of 200 of his followers, now be
lieved unnblo to get through the cor
don of soldiers.
Army headquarters at San An
tonio and Washington officials had no
information of a reported battle be
tween the Villistas and cither thp
American or Cnrranza troops.
Wireless messages from General
Pershing, who has two columns of
forces in the region nbout Nnmiquipa,
where Villa is said to have been sur
rounded, fail to mention any clash.
Dispatches tell of tho burning by
bandits of the town of Janos, to the
rear of General Pershing's forces; and
the murder of three Americans on a
ranch just south of the New Mexico
border.
President Wilson is expected to
take some stop in nn effort to stop the
wild reports of Cnrranzista revolts,
which the Administration regards as
a plot to force the United States to in
tervene in Mexico. All official infor
mation from the border and the in
terior indicates that there is no up-
Coiitlnutil an I'atB fivo, Column Thrte
PRESIDENT PLANS
BLOW AT JINGOES
N ON MEXICO CRISIS
Aims to Stop Wild Rumors
Designed to Cause
Intervention
PLOT TO EMBROIL U. S.
Reports of Carranzista Revolts
Declared to Be Grossly
Exaggerated
WASHINGTON, March 25. President
Wilson, embarrassed by what are termed
In Administration circles "outrageously
exaggerated reports on conditions In
Mexico," was expected today to call upon
the people of the country to discredit other
than official reports emanating from the
border.
The appeal, It Is expected, will be Issued
through Secretary of State Lanslns. De
cision to put a stop, If possible, to the
"systematic dls&emlnatlng of misinforma
tion" was made at the President's Cabinet
meeting.
Some of the President's advisers, how
ever, consider the matter of such impor
tance that they urged him to Issue a
formal statement at the AVhlte House In
stead of having It come from the State
Department, Secretary Lansing, It is
said, believes this would be tho best way
to convince the pouutry that caution nnd
poise must be maintained If the United
States is to puruue Its expedition alter
Villa unembarrassed by a general uprising
In Mexico.
The official reports read before the
meeting were diametrically opposed to
rumors emanating from the border that
parranza troops were revolting by the
thousands, Americans were In danger and
numerous other reports, all of which were
defined as exaggeration and deliberate
attempts to for,c this country tot inter
vetie In Mexico.
Regular reports are being made by
Secret Service, and Justice Department
agents to the State Department, and. It
la believed, tba findings of these agents
have been such as to warrant the Issuance,
by the Admintstratlon of a warning to
the people ef the qouutry that plots to
force Intervention are evident
QUICK
VON BUELOW TO REPLACE HOLLWEGi ITALY HEARS
ROME, March 2D. The Idea Nazlonale announces that the Kaiser
has summoned Prince Von Buelow to headquarters nnd trill offer the
former German Ambassador to Italy the post of Imperial Chancellor,
now held by Doctor Von Bethmann-Hollweg'. According to this news
paper, tho political crisis In Germany Involves nil members of the
ministry, and few of them will be retained.
MRS. BALDWIN, OF PHILADELPHIA, REPORTED DEAD
LONDON, Match 20. Mrs. Baldwin, of Philadelphia, an Ameri
cau woman, is leported to have died from wounds t'ecclred wheu the
Chuuucl liuer Sussex was damaged by an explosion off the IfrcucU
coast.
TRANSPORT HANCOCK ORDERED TO GALVESTON
WASHINGTON, March 2D. The Navy Department today ordeicd
the transport Hancock from Key West, Fin., to Galveston, Tex. Of
ficials indicated that tho trauspoit would be held at Galveston for
any emergency along: the eastern coast of Mexico. Four hundred ma
lincs aio being' held in Jeadincb& at New Orleans. They could be
luahcd to G.ilve&tou by r.iilxm, uhort uotir.e to embark nu-Uic Uijurot.
CARDINAL SERAFINI SUCCEEDS GOTTI AS PREFECT
ROJin, Starch 25. Cardinal Dominic Serailni has been appointed prefect of
the Propaganda, succeeding Cardinal Gottl. Cardinal Serfaflnt was born In
Rome lti'1852 and was created a Cardinal on May 25, 1914,
250 BLUEJACKETS HERE FROM NEW YORK
Two hundred and fifty bluejackets arrived at tho Philadelphia Navy "Sard
today from Now York to tako the places of men who were drafted from, tha
Atlantic reservo fleqt to snll on the Hancock. They camo from tho cruiser
Washington, which was recently put out of commission. Naval" officers remarked
that tho transfer of men here showed a lack of men to man all ships, They,
Intimated Unit if there were enough men, ships would not have to bo retired
so soon. '
POLICE LIEUTENANT BAUSWINE REINSTATED
Lieutenant George Bausevvine, suspended several weeks ago by Director
Wilson for "dlsobedlenco of orders," was reinstated today by the Director, pend
ing final disposition or th ecase. This was taken In pollco circles as nn indica
tion that the storm centre of pollccdom had settled his difference with poli
ticians in his district and would go back on tho force perman&etly. Bausewlne
will return to his old district, 12th and Pine streets, this uttwtioon, taking &
place of Lieutenant Bennett, who will be ishifted to the pollcebortt King.
NEARLY 200 WANT TO TEACH IN NIGHT SCHOOLS
Nearly 200 applicants for positions as teachers In the boys' high school
of tho city appealed for examinations, which were held today at tho Central
High School, Tho applicants want places teaching chemistry, Latin, English,
mathematics and the other high school courses. Only three, however, aspired
to become physical directors, though four are needed for the city high schools,
according to William H. Steelier, direction of physical education.
FRENCH AIRMEN SHELL GERMANS ON GREEK BORDER
SALONICA, March 25. A French aerial squadron today bombarded the
German camps north of the Greek border. Heavy damage was caused by the
aeroplanes. A French aviator fought a duel with a German E000 feet In the
air. Both machines were so badly damaged that the pilots had to descend
to earth. A
German and Bulgarian troops are erecting heavy fortifications along the
neutral zone and are mounting large guns on the heights of Ovatepe and
Strumnltza.
ANOTHER SCARLET FEVER CASE AT U. OF P.
r
Another case of scarlet fever has developed nt the University of Penn
sylvania since 17-year-old John F. Bacon, a Wharton School freshman, ran
away to his home upstate the other day when ho became 111 with It. The new
patient Is Raymond T. Granville, a (senior dentist, and he has been placed In the,
Municipal Hospital. The students who live In the house ho does at 3710
Spruce street may not attend classes for ten days.
DEFEATED GERMANS RETREAT TO AFRICAN WILDS
LONDON, March 25. By a further advance against the Germans In East
Africa, General Jan Christian Smuts and the army or the Union of South Africa
have driven the Germans from the whole KUlma N'Jaro region, according to an
official report Issued last night. Apparently they are now In control of the entire,
rich grazing country of the Masai Upland, the most valuable region of the German
colony. The Germans, It Is reported, are retreating- through the wilds on the
Pangam River In an effort to reach the coast.
i
BRITISH TO PROBE DELAYS TO NEUTRAL SHIPS
LONDON, March 25, As a result of complaints from the United States and
other neutrals of the delays which shipping suffers from the operation of the
blockado, the Government has appointed a committee of Inquiry with authority
to make all necessary recommendations for reforms,' If any are found neceusary.
The official announcement states that the committee will see If there la any avoid,
able delay caused by the methods, hitherto adopted, for dealing with ships and
cargoes brought Into British ports since the blockade was Inaugurated. The
members of the committee are Viscount Peel, chairman; Sir Kenneth S, Anderson.
Benjamin A. Cohen and IC "Wallace EUnslie. Lord Robert Cecil,. Minister of
War Trade, announces that no red tape wU be permitted to su.ua Jn the cenu
mlttee's way,
SCANDINAVIANS PLAN TEMPORARY POLITICAL UMON
WASHINGTON, March 25. Information received here concerning- the eon
ferences that have been in progress, in Copenhagen between the Governments of,
Denmark, Sweden and Norway with respect to questions growing out pf the great
war indicates that the commercial arrangements contemplated at the Inception
of the conferences will be extended so as to provide for a temporary political
union of the Scandinavian countries. The three northern nations are conaWw
Ing with the prospect of affirmative action an agreement whereby If onaMf tin
three becomes involved In the. European conflict the others will steadfastly rf u
to Join with the enemies of that nation. One Important outcome of the r.Q2fr
ences was an agreement that the Scandinavian Governments aaottfe takth.
Initiative whenever the time waa opportune In seeking to bring; other stair!
countries to Join with them In arrangements to protect the legai tigM
neutrals.
Bombs on Page
NEWS
N
5 of This Issue
l
t - -
