THE AKIaN A REPCJB
MCAN
Th Arliona
Republican,
Full
Leased Wirt
A. P. Rapert
Tfc) IM
Always Ihlaad
Finaat
Winter Climata
la tba WarW
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, MARCH 25, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVI. . NO. 311
FITt OF LIEUT.
I K
ST LL MYSTERY
Wireless is Received from
Auxiliary Ship of Antarc
tic Expedition Stating the
Craft Damaged and Pro
ceeding for Repairs
NO WORD FROM
LIEUT. SHACKELTON
Apparently Attempt Had
Been Made tor Months to
Send Wireless from Ship
Sent to Rescue Explorer
and Party
Republican A. P. Leased Wfre
LONDON, March 24. A wireless
message from the auxiliary ship Au
rora of the Sha'ckelton antarctic ex
pedition was received in London yes
terday. The Aurora at the time the
message was sent was in the tar
South Pacific. The wireless said the
steamer had been damaged and was
proceeding to New Zealand for. re -
' , . T . . c..-
The fate of Lieutenant Sir Ernest
Shackelton and the party with him , ... . . '
.. . x . . , - .were built, it would be impossible to
which set out to cross the south pole.l . 0. , ,
is not known.
" 1 v"u"-
.IVVUViy a lC "u ucr.. -
TTiaae io senu me wireiesss iur hccicm
months, but it had just been received train tne personnel neCessary to man
at the New Zealand station which the navy in first rank
forwarded it to England. The mes- f ..You can if you appropriate enough
sage was sent by a member of 4he r money, build enough ships to equal the
staff of t"he Aurora, which went from ships of any other navy in three years,"
Australia to Ross sea at the end of tne admiral but ships do not make
1914 for the purpose of bringing back a navy. You would not have the men,
Shaekelton's party, when they had officers or training that would bring a
crossed the south polar continent. It navy up to first rank,
was no known that the Aurora" had j ."Why, you can't train a chess player
wireless on board and the dispatch in five years and how can you train a
was delivered to an officer of .the .ex-.' corps of strategists in that time? Great
pedition which had been closed for. Britain has been 800 years training its
some time. i men and building up its navy. We can
The news as received in London never advance to first place until we
leaves the world completely in the change our system of direction and
dark as-to the doings or whereabouts preparation for war. We can't catch
of Lieutenant Shackleton and his im- up with Germany in five years. As to
mediate party. If they have'' carried training men, we need to train enlisted
out their program they now are "pre- ; me". DUt the greatest need is the train
sumably at the Ross sea base, but inK of admirals."
ithout the expected ship to take
them off.
Even if Shackleton has been un
successful in the attempt t cross the
pole and has had to retrace his steps
to the Widdel sea base, thence to re-
turn to Buenos Aires, the relief ex
pedition wi!l have to be reorganized
to effect the rescue of Lieutenant
Aeneas Macintosh, R. N. R. in com
mand of the Aurora, and a number
of his companions who were left on
shore at Ross sea when the Aurora
broke from her moorings. The great
question is. will the stores which the
men possessed be sufficient to sustain
the lives of the party for a year.
The information ' contained in the
message received at London was at
onVe communicated to King George,
who presented Lieutenant Shackletor
with a flag to carry during his march
nnd who has taken great interest In
Shackleton's task. The news caused
grave eonsternStion among the rela
tives and friends of the explorers.
Until the Aurora arrives at some
ort and a full story of her adven
tures is available, the extent of the
loss sustained hy the party cannot be
definitely known.
The full text of the wireless mes
sage received in London contained
about 400 words. It said that the
Aurora had reached her destination
late in January 1915 and landed two
parties under Lieutenant Macintosh
and also a considerable quantity, ftf
stores. .Meanwhile the Aurora lav at
her moorings off Cape Evans. Sev
eral attempts were made to find a
safe harbor but these all failed Ttw-
COLONEL ROOSEVELT RETURNS
TELLS OF DISCOVERY OF NEW BIRD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire . preciation of the courtesy and hospi
NEW ' YORK," "March. 24. Colonel tality of the officials and private citi
Theodore Roosevelt returned tonight i zens of the French, English and Danish
on the steamship Matura from the j islands. I was much impressed by the
West Indies, silent In politics, and the islands. I come home feeling fine and
Mexican situation, by announcing the ( I enjoyed the ocean trip despite he
discovery in Trinidad of what was to -fact that we ran into a storm Wednes
hlm a new variety of bird in which he ! day night during which, the waves at
was much interested, He and his wife
had been absent six weeks on what he
termed a vacation.
The bird, he said, was about as big
as a barn owl. It lives in caves,
nocturnal in its habits and eats nuts.
Its native name, he added, was the
"Guacharo."
Asked by one of the newspapermen
who met him at quarantine if the bird
"barked like a dog." Colonel Roosevelt
pointed a finger warningly at him and
exclaimed:
"Now, no nature faking, sir." -
He added that he was going to call
the attention of the New York Zoologi
cal Society to the bird, and remarked
that he might write something about it.
Colonel Roosevelt declined to discuss
his plans for the .future, but said he
probably would see George W. Perkins
at Oyster Bay tomorrow.
"I greatly enjoyed the trip,", he said,
"and I wish to express my warm ap-
STEAMER SUSSEX IS
TORPEDOED REACHES
UNKNOWN FRENCH PORT
I
DEMAND RESIGNATION
OF EARL OF DERBY X
I MANCHBSTEk, Eng. 'March
25. The Earl of Derby's resigna-
j tion as director general of re- j
I cruiting is demanded in a resolu- j
j tion passed at a meeting of mar-
j. ried men who have attested under
I the Derby scheme. The meeting j
was held for the purpose of pro-
testing against married men be-
ing called to the colors before all
available single men had joined j
j the army. Similar meetings of j
protest were held simultaneously i
in other cities.
-
TEH f EARS IS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 24. Rear
Admiral Bradley A. Fiske declared be-
fore the house naval committee today
.. . , .. .. 1
. carry out the general board's plan for
'.making the American navy equal to
any afoat by j925 because U
' would
tnlfo ton veiira InnAr in Hpvlnn a nrl
Keiterating nis orten expressed opin
ion that the navy never could be made
efficient as long as its policies were
subject to change by every new secre
of tne nav'- the admiral urged
testation for the establishment of a
general staff with satutory powers and
to define and extend the powers of the
chief of' operations. He agreed that
the navy now needed battle cruisers
badly but said' the most urgent need
was an adequate flying corps and
pointed out that more could be accom
plished in a year in the field of aero
nautics than in capital ship construc
tion. Admiral Fiske, who has been a cen
ter of the storm of criticism of the
nay since he resigned as aide for op
erations a year ago, was not inclined
to dwell upon his differences with Sec
retary Daniels. In response to ques
tions he said the secretary had granted
him a month's leave of absence when
he asked for three months and that Mr.
Daniels had told him he didn't want
naval officers in Washington talking
with congressmen and newspapermen.
ing to the extremely bad season.
A blizzard on May 6 drove the Aurora
from her moorings. The vessel be
came lodged in pack ice, which carried
her northward around Cape Adal-e.
he lost her rudder and suffered a se
vere strain to her hull in the. ice about
July 21, when ninety mlU-8 south of
Coulman Lsland.
The message adds the following six
names to tho,ie reported ashore in the
Melbourne dispatch: Lieutenant Mac
intosh, H. Wild and Messrs. Joyce,
(Continued on Page Two)
times swept clear over the ship."
FIBS! Iff
warn
No Need To Show Overt Act
LOS ANGELB:s. Majch 24. Tho W. Johnson, planned to take his pris
fight which Mrs. Isabel Clayburg has oner north with him tonight. x
waged for a month against being Mrs. Clayburg sought to obtain her
taken for trial to Seattle, where she i& release from custody on a writ of
charged with complicity in the alleged habeas corpus in the superior court,
operations of a so-called blackmail district court of appeal and United
syndicate, ended late today when States district court, respectively, on
Judge E. E. Cushman, in the United the contention by her attorneys that
States district court, denied her a writ the complaint filed against her in Seat
of habeas corpus. A deputy sheriff, tie failed to charge her with an overt
who came here soon after Mrs. Clay- act. Judge Cushman ruled that it was
burg's nrrest and who obtained extra- not necessary to show that an overt
dition for her from Governor Hiram act had been committed.
British Steamer Englishman
Which Plied Between
Portland, Me., and Avon
mouth, Has Been Sunk
Torpedo or Mine1?
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
With 386 passengers, probably some
of them Americans, and a crew of
about fifty on board, the cross chan
nel steamer Sussex, plying between
Folkestone, England and Dieppe,
France, was in distress in the English
channel off Dieppe. Unofficial reports
say that the vessel was torpedoed.
The British steamer Englishman, a
vessel of 5,257 tons, which plies be
tween Portland, Maine and Avon
mouth, has been sunk but whether
by a mine or a torpedo has not been
stated. Sixty-eight persons on board
were rescued. Whether this number
constituted the entire s-hip's company
is not known.
It is stated in the French and Rus
sian war theaters that the heaviest
battles are in progress, but fighting
also continues in the Austro-Italian
zone, in Serbia, near the Greek fron
tier and in Asiatic Turkey.
The French are' keeping up their
vigorous bombardment of the woods
of Malancourt and Avocourt, north
west of Verdun, which are held by
the Germans, and also are hammering
away with their guns at German
lines of communication in the eastern
fringes of the Argonne forest.
To the north and east of Verdun
an intermittent bombardment by the
Germans and French second line po-
itions is still going on. with the
French replying energetically.
The only infantry encounter al'ng
the western front took place in the
Argonne forest, -where the Germans
gained a portion of a French first
line trench, but were expelled from it
by a counter attack and lost some
thirty men taken prisoner.
All along the Russian front from
the region of Friedrichsstadt to the
district around Vilna, the Russians
and Germans are hard at grips. Pet-
rograd says that near VVidsy, between
Dvinsk and Vilna, the Russians forced
all the German lines and barricade!"
and .. repulsed-. . a vigorous GerThan
counter attack.
Berlin, however, says that here the
Russian attacks failed with heavy
losses before the German entangle
ments. Bad weather prevails in the Austro
Italian theater, but notwithstanding a
hlizzard the . Italians have attacked
and occupied Austrian positions in
the Ccrdevole valley.
Eerlin reports that in the region of
Gievgeli, on the Serbo-Greek frontier,
artillery duels have been in progress.
The statement dees not give the na
tionalities of the batteries.
The defeat of the British forces
that attacked a Turkish position on
the right bank of the Tigris, near Fe
laliie, is chronicled by Constantinople.
The report also says that Turkish
airmen have again dropped bombs on
Kut-El-Amiira, where a British force
's under siege.
' Sussex Is Torpedoed
LONDON, March 25. The cross
channel steamer Sussex, which was
damaged by an explosion in the "Eng
lish channel lust evening while on a
trip from Folkestone to Dieppe, has
been -towed into a French port, the
nariie of which is not disclosed, says
a dispatch to the Central News from
Folkestone.
There were thirty Americans aboard
the Sussex, which left Folkestone yes
terday shortly after noon in clear
weather. The vessel proceeded with
out incident until 4:20 p. m., when she
was struck amidships' as she was ap
proaching the coast of France. A
terrific crash followed and several
hands in the engine room were badly
.injured. Wireless messages brought
help from both sides of the channel
and all the passengers were rescued.
The Sussex, as already reported, was
towed into a French port, the name
of which Is still vitrfheld.
"I think it probable that there were
a number of Americans among the
passengers of the Sussex," said Robert
P. Skinner, the American consul gener
al, in reply to a question by'the Asso
ciated Press, "because in the last few
days my office has vized passports for
many Americans going to France."
At both the American embassy and
general consulate there were rumors
that the Sussex had been torpedoed
but neither had received any details.
The Sussex left Folkstone at 1:20
o'clock this afternoon flying the French
flag and met with mishap somewhere
off Dieppe at 7 o'clock tonight. When
the alarm was sent out a number of
(Continued on Page Two)
To Secure Extradition
IMMIGRATION
BILL BERATED
III THE USE
Burnett Measure With Much
Discussed Literacy Test
and Asiatic Exclusion Pro
visions Occupies Attention
of the Lower House -
' Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 24. Debate
in thj House today on the Burnett im
migration bill with Its much discussed
literacy test and-Asiatic exclusion pro
visions brought out the fact that the
state department had withdrawn its
opposition to a ilause embodying legis
lative recognition of the so-called gen
tlemen's afrreemeiit under which Japan
restricts emigration to the United
States.
The desire of the state department
that there be no new provisions as to
Asiatics had been strongly urged by
opponents of the measure. Represen
tative Burnett announced today that
Secretary Lansing had said the clause
as drawn was not objectionable. Later
is was said at the state department that
the language as amended had been
agreed to, and it was learned also that
the Japanese embassy, while opposed
to any such legislation, probably would
not attempt to protest.
The clause, occurring on the enumer
ation of persons excluded says:
"Hindus and persons who cannot be
come eligible under existing laws, to
become citizens of the United States by
naturalization unless otherwise pro
vided for by the existing agreements as
to passports, or by existing treaties,
conventions or agreements that may
hereafter be entered into."
The immigration bill, similar to
measures vetoed by President Taft and
Wilson on account of the literacy test
feature, was taken up in the house to
day with indications pointing to a de
bate of three or four days before a vote
can be' reached, it is a comprehensive
measure, designed to perfect and ex
tend existing laws'.
The literacy test adds to the excluded
classes under the present law all aliens
over 16 years of age, physically capable
of reading who cannot' read the Eng-
(Continued pn Page Three)
FOR GUNS; GETS
Sends Hurry-uj) Wire to
Washington Asking for
Krags, But Late Last
Nmht Had Received No
Answer Quiet Here
Up to a late hour last night. Gov
ernor Hunt had received no reply from
the war department, in answer to his
request that sftoo stands of arms and
."0,000 cartridges be sent to Arizona at
once.
The governor dispatched the tele-
ram early yesterday morning after
he has received telegrams from fifteen
towns in the southern part of the
state asking for protection.
There was little excitement at the
state house yesterday. A rumor was
in circulation to the effect that Ad
jutant General Harris had ordered the
mustering out of Companies A, B, C
and D, all located in the v.illey, in
eluding the Phoenix companies. Gov
ernor Hunt denied that this action was
to be taken. The purpose of the mus.
tering out, if it is to take place, would
be for the purpose of reorganization
from top to .bottom In each company..
It was rumored last night that over
thirty Indians came in and enlisted in
the Indian company.
Reassuring statements by officials
end men high in the councils of the
National Guard raused a lessening of
uneasiness over the Mexican situation
yesterday. The possibility of dis
turbances grow more remote every
day although precautions are v being
taken by the National Guard and other
authorities.
Captair. Noble of Company D of
Mesa yesterdaj-1 issued orders designed
to prevent' Americans in Mesa from
taunting Mexicans. It is believed that
this order will be made more strong,
and reiterated by other authorities,
until at least one source of strain is
relieved.
Recruiting offices were opened yes
terday in every city where a National
Guard company is stationed. In Phoe
nix, Lieutenant Frank Smith, quarter
master-sergeant, is in charge of the
office at the armory. He is enlisting
men for the three local companies,
the reserve and the volunteers. Un
der orders, he would make no state
ment regarding plans or progress yes
terday. The nightly drills are in force
and are being better attended.
Band Getting Ready
i The chance that the National Guard
may be called into the federal service
in the near future, brings the First
Regiment band before the public in a
new light. Many do not understand
the relation of the band to the rest of
(Continued on Page Three)
II
DISQUIETING DEPORTS DENIED
APPBEHEfW IS SUBSIDING
ADISTRATl
M
SETTLE DOWN TO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 24. With
disquieting reports from Mexico offi
cially denied from all sources, admin
Istration officials settled down again L
tonight to await word that Viila and
his bandits had been captured or killed
by American or Mexican troops; The
apprehension aroused by reports that
the Carranza garrison at Chihuahua
city had joined the bandits had com
pletely subsided. While congress still
heard talk of rumors of impending
border disturbances, the White House,
state and war departments were sat
isfied that nothing had arisen beyond
the border to justify additional mili
tary precautions.
No confirmation had reached the
war department of advices to General
Calles, Carranza governor of Sonora.
that Villa was surrounded by columns
of Mexican and American troops nea.
Namiquipa. The day passed without
messages of other than routine char
acter from General Funston or other
army officials on the border. It was
noted at the war department, however,
that General Funston placed some
cied:jnce in unofficial, reports that
General Pershing's troops already had
met and engaged the bandits. Since
the American border commander is in
a position to know the exact where
abouts of the American columns pur
suing the bandit, his opinions in this
connection have gre.it weight.
The report that General Herrera
and his garrison in Chihuahua had re
volted was positively, denied by Amer
Ican Consul Itcher at Chihuahua
city. Disturbed uy conflicting rumors
from the border, state department of
ficials last night telegraphed Mr.
Letcher for an immediate report. His
reply was available when President
Wilson met with the cabinet this
morn-ng. Reassuring messages had
come also from many points just be-
vond the border, sa"ing there was no
indication that Carranza troops were
being massed near the American line
The situation a Tampico was reported
quiet in messages from the gunboat
Machias. and a later dispatch an
nounced tho arrival of the battleship
Kentucky there.
With these' official statements be.
fore the-n, in spite of alarming reports
to the contrary reaching the govern
ment departments and members of
congress from many unofficial sources,
the president and his official family
decided thtre was no necessity to call
out the national guard for border duty.
GLENN WILT GUILTY
WILLOWS. Cal., March 24. Glenn
Wilt was convicted tonight by a jury
in the Glenn county superior court
of murder in the first degree for the
killing of Warner Smith.
VILLA SURROLNDED?
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY, March 24 Villa is
surrounded and cannot -possibly es
cape, according to a message received
tonight by the minister of war from
General Luis Qutierrez. The message
adds that General Gutierrez's troops
are spread out fan -shaped in front, of
Namiquipa and that the general has
divided his forces into four com-
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, March 24. What
are regarded as evidence of activity of
powerful influences to force interven
tion in Mexico through the' spreading of
alarmist reports, were discussed at to
day's cabinet meeting and resulted in
the preparation of a formal statement
on the subject by Secretary Lansing
which probably will be made public
tomorrow.
Administration officials believe that
a definite effort is being made to bring
about war between the United States
and Mexico. One cabinet member ex- ;
pressed the cpinion following today's I
meeting that ;he attempts to force in
tervention weie backed by interests
owning property in northern Mexico.
Well defined steps were being taken, he
said, to stir up public opinion in Mexi
co and the United States to the point
where a general clash between the two
nations would be inevitable.
Several warnings against spreading
alarmist reports have been issued by
administration officials already, and it
was said tonight that President Wilson,
deepfy resentful over the situation, was
determined that the agitation be
brought to an end. ' '
Legal steps to stop the spreading of
false news are understood to be 'under
consideration but officials have not de-
ALARMIST REPORTS SPREAD TO
FORCE INTERVENTION IN MEXICO
OFFICIALS
AWAIT WORD
VILLA BAND
REPORT
FIGHTING
IN PETEN
DISTRICT I
1 i
! MEXICO CITT, March 24. A
special dispatch to E! Democrata j
j from Tapachula, state of Chiapas I
and nar the Guatemala frontier, I
:hat fighting between the rebels j
j and the forces under President j
! Manuel Estrada Cabrera, was pro-
! ceeding vigorously on the 18fh. j
Tne rebels under General Jose j
j Prado entered the Peten district, j
! capturing the towns of San Pedro, j
I Providencia, Naranjo and El Pro- j
j preso. Cabrera's forces are said
! to have been defeated in four sep- I
! aiate engagements. I
I
0
FORCE CALLED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Mjtrcti 24. Evidence of
the seriousness with which the local
authorities regarded the border sit-
uation was supplied tonight in an an
nnnncement hv swiff P.vtnn i ,
Kdwards " that he had telegraphed
Governor James E. Ferguson that he
believed the state militia should be
sent to the frontier.
Sheriff Edwards said that -he did
! not wish to be consrdered an larm
ist but that developments in Mexico
convinced him that additional protec
tion was needed for Americans along
the border. He refused to give the
wording of his telegram or say how
many additional troops he thought
necessary.
The action of Sheriff Edwards, fol
lowing that of the Arizona authorities
in directing that the border compan
ies of militia of that state be recruit
ed to full w,ar strength gave renewed
force io the tension which earlier in
the day had shown signs of relax
ing.
There is a sharp difference in the
Point of view between federal and lo-
cai omciais nere. The former in
sist that while the situation is filled
wth dangerous possibilities 'there is
no reason to fear any immediate
Crisis. The local authorities, on the
other' hand, are equally pisitive that
(Continued on Page Two)
mpnds, under General Benjamin Gar-
zii, General F. Cabasos, Colonel Her
nandez and Colonel -Cano, for the pup
Pose of hemming in Villa and his fol-
rlowers from the four points i p( he
compass. -
The forces of General Gutierrez
have been for several hours In con
tact with tile outposts of the Villa
party. . "
1 cided yet what can be done. One step
suggested was the use of a law against
the publication of reports calculated to
incite to "arson and riot."
It was also understood that the ad
ministration had under consideration
tightening the censorship on Mexican
new and warning army officers along
the border against giviig out reports
unless fully verified.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, March 24 Janos, about
40 miles northwest of Casas Grandei
and on the route taken by the Ameri
can expeditionary force, was set on fire
early today, presumably, by a band of
Mexican band'ts. Four large fires were
reported by Americans passing near the
town. ...
No Americans are known to have
been in the town. The fires burning
rapidly fanned by heavy winds when
seen, it was said. It was also learned
W MILITIA
UT T
HXBM TOI OF JluTODn
BY HS H DESTROYED
SlIOw AND SLEET
BRING TROUBLE
TO U.S. TROOPS
On Heels of Nine Days' Ex-,.
hausting March Under
.'Withering Sun, Expedi
" tionary Force Encounters .
Real Winter Weather
UNEQUIPPED FOR
UNUSUAL WEATHER
That Troops Have Penetrat
ed Mountain Fastnesses
to Considerable Distance
Below Casas Grandes In
dicated by Preparations
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
. COLUMBUS, N. M., March 24.
Snow and sleet following rapidly on
the heels of a nine day exhausting
march under a withering desert sun,
brought new difficulties today to the
American troops in the Casas Grandes
district, according to reports received
tonight from General J. J. Pershing,
expeditionary commander.
Xone of the troops are equipped
for unusual weather, their orders be
ing to minimize their baggage as far
as possible that the utmost speed
might Ife made. Consequently the
average soldier carried with him
from the border only a sweater and
single blanket for protection against
the cold, no-overcoats or other heavy
.clothing . being taken.
That the troops have penetrated
the mountain 'fastnesses to a consid
erable distance below Casas Grandes
Is indicated in the preparations being
made here to depend more largely
upon mules and horses instead of
motor trucks for transport purpose.
Several hundred cavalry remounts
also have been received here from
Oklahoma points and are being pre
pared for service.
It is rejiorted here unofficially that
the American cavalry in several de-.
tachments has spread fan-like below
Casas Grandes. reaching distances
ranging from 30 to 120 miles from
the advanced base.
Have Probably Met. Villa.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., March 24
General Pershing's report to General
Funston that two columns of his ex
peditionary force were in the vicinity
of Namiquipa, 125 miles southeast of
Casas Grandes, and repeated reports
from Mexican sources that Villa with
a comparatively small force had been
forced to a stand at El Oso, near
there, caused officers here to expect
news at any time of a battle. General
Uunston thought it probable that an
engagement might already have oc
curred. General Pershing referred today for
the first time since last Monday to
his operations south of Casas Gran
des hut his report containexKjittle
mtormaiion ana none concerning any
encounter between Villa and Americtm
soldiers or- troops of the de facto
government. He said Villa last had
been at Namiquipa. His report was
dated today and reached Columbus by
wireless and was transmitted by tele
graph to Fort Sam Houston.' It was
taken by army officers here to indi
cate that either no engagement was
fought yesterday with Villa or that
General Pershing had not learned of
it.
ConsuI Beltran of the Mexican gov
ernment received a message late today
from Consul Garcia at El Paso say
ing confirmation had .been received of
the report that Villa had been de
feated yesterday in the Santa Ger
trudes canyon by the American and
Mexican forces and that he had fled
to El Oso, five miles from Namiqui
pa, where he was surrounded. The
consul .added that one of the Ameri
can officers with, .the expeditionary
forces had reported to General Persh
ing that he would attack Villa today.
The American' troops near Nami
quipa' moved south, and east from
tonight that a number of small bands
of marauders, affiliated with no Mexi
can faction, have bewn roving about in
the latrt 'five days hear the American
lines of communication from Columbua
to Casas Gra.ides. ':. . -.
Janos is at th? junction of the Janos
and La Ascencion, rivers. It has a nor
mal population of about 450 and was
used a ; military - base by General
Pablo Bertani in hit operations about
Guzman several months ago.
, (Continued on Pace Threat
