mm mm #
Many Americans Reported Killed in T
HARRISBURG iflSllSfa TELEGRAPH
A t YYYV V l% CJ7 BY CAHHIEH fl CENTS A WBEIC.
V AO. O/ SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
VILLA IS REPORTED IN FLIGHT TOWARD MOUNTAINS
AFTER ELUDING RING OF U. S. AND MEXICAN TROOPS
Several Thousand of Gen.
Pershing's Soldiers Scour
Country South of Casas
Grandes in Every Direction
to Locate Him; Roving
Bands of Bandits Cut Wires
into El Paso
INVESTIGATE BORDER
CROSSING AND MURDERS
Two Women and a Man Kill
ed by Raiders West of
Columbus; Presence of
Force in This Vicinity
Threatens Line of Com
munication to Expedition
in Mexico
By Associated 1 1 ress
El Paso, Texas, March 25.—Fran
cisco Villa was reported early to-day
to be fleeing: west in the San Miguel
country, having successfully eluded
the encircling ring that was being
drawn around him by American and
< 'arranza troops, .\c\vn of the out
law's retreat westward was brought"
here from El Vale, but could not be
confirmed at I'ort Bliss or in Mexican
official circles.
Several thousand American soldiers
arc known to be searching the coun
try south of Casas Grandes in every
direction to locate the bandit but
hive not come Into contact with him.
Wire communication out of El
Paso into Mexico is still interrupted
and it is believed that roving bands
of Villa men are responsible for the
wire cutting, having been detached
from the main Villa command for this
purpose.
Dispatches received at Mexico «"it>
and Douglas. Ariz., apparently confirm
reports to Kl Paso from General
Dertani in the lield that the troops
of the de facto government had come
into contact with Villa in the Santa
canyon. General Pershing has
tade no mention of this battle and
army officers here incline to the belief
that It was probably not more than an
outpost engagement.
Major Symple. in command of the
ITnited States army base at Columbus,
has been asked to investigate the re
port brought into Douglas. Ariz., that
Villa bandits had crossed the border
eight miles west of Columbus and
murdered three Americans, two wo
mci and one man.
The bandits, numbering 100 or
more, are said to have recrossed into 1
Mexico after the killing. The presence
of Villa forces in the Upper Galeana
district would be a threat to the line
■ of communication to the base of the
American expedition at Casas Grandes.
Await Word of Fight
The most curious feature of the
whole situation, the question why Gen
eral Pershing made no report on the
battle said to have been fought, re
mained unsolved. While the story of
the surrounding of Villa and his "fol
lowers might be dismissed as prema
ture, it is known that the American
columns have penetrated the territory
where the Villa bands are operating,
and word is eagerly awaited from Gen
eral Pershing of the first clash between
the bandits and the troops of the
United States.
The veil of mystery which has
dropped over the operations around !
Namiquipa was rivaled by the con
tinued insistence of the reports that
Genera! I.uis Herrera had turned his
arms against the de facto government.
The latest news to be brought here
from "Chihuahua came with the nrrivnl
•if Charles R. Yeats, an American min
ims man. who reached here from Chi
hualiua City on an early morning train.
Veats said that Herrera was not in the j
Mexican state capital when he left and
that city appeared as much in the!
dark as to his whereabouts as El Paso.
Reiterates Revolt Rumor
"I have lived twenty years in Mex
ico." he said, "and T never felt certain
from one day to another where any
leader stood. They are all individual
its. and pay little attention to any cen
tral authority. It is positive that Her
rera was bitterly opposed to the entry
of American troops into Mexico'and
openly accused Carranza of being false
to the national honor of Mexico, but
whether he has gone as far as actual
revolt T cannot say."
Yeats said that there was grave un
rest in Chihuahua and a rising tide of
•hostility against Americans, but that
[Continued on Page B.]
THE WEATHER]
fc———_
lor llarrlMburg and vicinity:
l lomly to-night and Sundn.s
probably Mho went; unrnn'r to
night with loneNt temperature
about 15 degree*,
l or KnMeri! Pennnylvanlai ( loudv
to-night and Sunday, probably i
Hhowera; warmer to-night: mod
erate ea«t to wontbenMt windn.
Klv-r
The Susquehanna river and all itn
branclien will rl*e. A Mtage of
about 6.0 feet 2m Indicated for
llurrlaburg Sunday morning. \o
chuuue huN been reported In the
ire actuation In the V. cat ilrnncli
Mluee Friday.
t.enernl t onditlon«
The disturbance that waM ventral
over Colorado Friday morning,
now covera the >liaalat»ipp| and
Lower >lla*ourl valleys. It haM
lauxed loeal rnliiM and snows In
the I'lalnM State* and Southern
Rocky Mountain* and some rain
In the Lake Region.
There ha* been a general rise of II
to HO degree* in temperature eaat
of the MIMMIMMIPPI river In the
last twenty-four hour*.
Temperature* N a. m.. 8.
Sunt Itlaea, 5:50 a. in.; set*, 6iJ3
p. in.
Moons Xew moon, April 2, V2i29
a. m.
HUer Stage: 5.5 feet above low
water murk.
%esteday*s \\ enter
IligheMt temperature, f.*».
Lowest temperature. !£!),
Mean temperature, 37.
Aorta a I temperature, 41.
WINDOW AND PORCH BOXES; WY NOT HAVE ONE OF YOVR OWN
itfTi M—i ' —mi—i I,—
jjsHSr* jjaBEBgftWMI I
- ■ - H ww WKNmmMB&m
PLANS COMPLETE
FOR GREAT PENN
HIGHWAY SESSION
Hundreds of Delegates From
Towns Along Route Will
Be Here Monday
LEGISLATORS COMING
Governor Brumbaugh and
Highway Commissioner Cun
ningham to Speak
Final arrangements for the Wil-j
liam Penn Highway meeting to be'
held in this city Monday are being
made by the Good Roads Commit
tee of the Harrisburg Chamber of
Commerce, composed of William
Jennings, chairman. Wilson. Blough,
Robert Mc.Cormlck,'Charles E. Covert
and Frank Bosch, and E. 1,. McColgin,
secretary of the Chamber.
The meetings will be held in
Fahnestock Hall. Second and Locust
streets. The first session will be al
10 in the morning and the afternoon
meeting will convene at 2:30. William
[Continued on Page 7.]
Condemnation Proceedings
Against Kesher Israel Are
Started by Commonwealth
Notice of condemnation proceedings
have been served by Sheriff William
W. Caldwell for the Capitol Park
Commissioners, on David Goldberg
and other officers of the Kesher Israel
congregation, worshipping in the syna
gogue at Fourth and State streets.
The commissioners have fixed May 10
as the date for the hearing.
It Is understood that an offer of'
$22,500 made to the congregation by
the State was refused.
Rejected as Army Recruit,
Boy Patriot Kills Himself
Philadelphia, March 25. —Failure to i
meet tin physical requirements for!
enlistment in the army caused Eurl c. 1
Flet;al, 1 7 years old, of Clearfield. Fa . |
to commit suicide yesterday afternoon i
by shooting himself through the heart
in his room in the Rlttenhouse Hotel. !
Flegal registered at the hotel on j
Wednesday night. According to Deputy
Coroner Waldin. who investigated the '
rase, the young man came here solely ;
for the purpose of joining the army. !
papers of consent from-his parents be
ing found in his clothing.
MEASLES PREVENT SCHOOL
On account of the prevalence of'
measles among the children of AIII- |
son Ilill. there will be no Sunday
School to-morrow at St. Andrew's'
Protestant Episcopal Church at noon '
ns usual. •
t N
Battleship Fund, $215.75
To ilatc 5215.75 is the total of
< rrntrlhutioiis from subscribers, to
the Mnrjoric Stcrretfs battleship i
fund. The names of contributors 1
not heretofore published will be I
printed in the Telegraph on Slon- : i
HARRISBURG, PA., SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 25, 1016
PEACE PIPE MAY
BE PASSED, IS
LATEST REPORT
lalk in Philadelphia of Har
mony Among Republicans—
Governor Endorsed
Reports from Philadelphia to-day
indicated that the peace pipe might
be passed around among the Repub
lican chieftains and that everyone now
differing might line up for a reunited
Republican party.
J riends of the Governor and Sena
tor Penrose have been active in en
deavoring to reach a plane of agree
ment, but the principals and their
, chief advisors have been silent, re
fusing to discuss any matters.
Attorney General Brown. Compen
sation Chairman Mac-key and others
who are managing the Governors
I campaign were busy to-day in Phila
[Contlnucd on Page 7]
Court Gives Stiff
Sentence tc Negro as
Tip to Southern Crowd
Unruly actions of Southern negroes
•> who may be brought here bv the big
I manufacturing plants will not be tol
erated in Dauphin county, according
I to District Attorney Michael E
! Stroup and he urged imposition of a
stiff sentence upon Ollie Hoots when
j that, negro was called before the bar
!on an assault and battery charge.
This was preferred by his foreman in
the Pennsylvania Steel Company mills.
President Judge Kunkel sentenced
Hoots to two months and a fine of
So. "And,"' concluded the court sig
j niticantly, if you come back here
again we'll make a longer disposition
of your case."
OFFERS MILL TO
WORKERS IF THEY
« PAY 8 PER CENT.
(Suggestion Made After 30,000
Employes Threaten Strike
For Shorter Hours
By Associated I'ress
Paterson. N. J.. March 25.—An offer I
by Henry Doherty, part owner of one
; of the largest silk mills in this city, to
turn the mill over to his employes to i
I operate provided they guarantee to j
; Pay him 8 per cent, on his investment,
i has caused much discussion anion* I
the silk workers here.
It is understood that Mr. Doheriy's
suggestion wa.- made because of!
threats of a strike unless demands of
30,000 employes in the silk mills for a I
nine-hour working day are granted. '
The mill owners hove offered a
»'i-hour day beginning May 1 and a
nine-hour day on November 1.
Doherty asserts he is sincere and if
the operatives accept they can work as I
few hours a day as they please, pro
vided Ms 8 per cent, is paid, J
DO YOU WANT TO
I HELP MAKE YOUR)
' CITY BEAUTIFUL?
■ Telegraph Has Plan For Win
dowbox Decorations; Co
operation Required
• | Will you join with the Telegraph •
II in helping to make llarrisburg more |
■ | beautiful during the coming summer?
This newspaper proposes to offer a '
I number of prizes for windowbox
decorations in me hope of thereby
arousing the Interest of people at
. large in this delightful and effective
form of gardening.
" 1 Last year the Telegraph gave prizes
- for backyard, front yard and window
■ box decorations. This year the effort
will be confined to windowboxes
■ alone, for the reason that the window- !
< box costs little to plant, requires a j
< minimum of rare and not' a very ox- ■
. tensive knowledge of gardening. Many j
persons who are uncertain about j
plunging into a garden contest with 1
little or no preparation, will not 1
hesitate to start a windowbox or i
two.
The general planting of window-j
[Continued on Pago 7.]
/Cook Stove Expiosion
Kills Woman, Injures Her
Husband and Daughter
i By Associated Press
• j Scranton. Pa.. March 23.—The blow
. ins ti)i of a. cook stove yesterday at
i Uniondaie, Susquehanna county, killed
. j .Mrs. Charles K. Gibson and fatally i
[ burned Mr. Gibson. Their daughter i
j was seriously burned and the house
| destroyed. It is thought there was a!
' portion of a stick of dynamite 1n the
i coal Mr. Gibson liad but a moment
before put on the tire.
WILL DISCUSS ~~
PREPAREDNESS
DURING FEAST
Prominent Engineers Will
Speak at Annual Banquet of
Engineers' Society
"Preparedness," from the industrial
i and engineering standpoint, will be
the keynote of the Speeches at the
second annual banquet of the En
; gineers' Society of Pennsylvania at
.the Harriaburg Club this evening. The
i twelfth anniversary of the founding
[('oiitintM'ri on Pago 7.]
ICE GOKGE AT LONGLEVEL
York, Pa.. March 25.—The long de- 1
layed breaking of the ice on the Sus- '
quelianna river between York arid '
Lancaster counties began between 7 1
and 8 o'clock this morning on a ten
foot rise. It is now believed that Uio
) volume of the floor produced by rains
and melting snows will be sufficient to
carry oft the ice without damage 1
though a gorge at Longlevel ia causing i
some anxiety, j
\
13,000 TO SEE
I WILLARD-MORAN
FIGHT FOR BELT
Roth Pugilists Are Confident of
Winning World's Cham
pionship Battle
2,000 WOMEN TO ATTEND
Purse of $70,000 Will Be
Divided; Boxers in Per
fect Condition
By Associated Press
Xew York, March 25.—Thirteen
I thousand spectators will crowd Madi
j son Square Garden to-night to see
j Frank Moran, of Pittsburgh, try to
! wrest the world's heavyweight cham
pionship from Jess Willard, of Kan
sas.
i Although the bout is not announced
las for the title and no decision by the
| referee is possible under the boxing
i laws, Moran might win the champion
'ship either by a knockout, a foul by
| Willard. or Willard's failure to go the
I full length of the. bout. The fight is
(the most important listic encounter
which has taken place since Willard
[Continued on l»age 13.]
Consider Limiting Access of
Armed Ships to U. S. Ports
By Associated Press
I Washington, D. C., March 25.—Sec
retary Lansing had before him to-day
lormal responses from the entente
powers rejecting the proposal made
by the State Department that they
enter into a modus vivendi and dis
arm all of their merchant ships with
the understanding that the central
powers would pledge tljat such un
armed ships would not be attacked
without warning. It is understood
i t hat the fundamental objection was!
11 hat there should be no change in the
principles of international law during
the progress of hostilities.
| While no indication was given at
I the State Department of the next step
to be taken, it is understood that the
j United States is considering limiting
access to American ports of vessels
which In the judgment of this govern
ment, carry offensive armaments.
WOMAN HEAD IN~ FIELD
Special In the Telegraph
Halifax, Pa., March 25.—Mrs. Fan
• nie Mease, about 10 years old, a resi
dent of Fort Hunter, was found dead
in a field on the farm of George Hum
mel, in Halifax township. Mrs. Mease 1
was visiting friends near by and had
started across the fields to the home of
John I I. Chubb, where she intended to
spend the night.
ALAMO REACHES PORT
By Associated' Press
New York, March 25.—The Mal
lorv liner Alamo, recently in distress
off the Atlantic coast, arrived here to
day In tow of other vessels. She car
ried fifty passengers.
IIA Hli Y KIHI.WIM) |j|, fis
Special to the Telegraph
Woimle.vsUuig, Pa., March 25
llai ry Kuhlwlnd, who has been 111' for
several weeks, died last eveniug at the i 1
Black, 0t h '* daUffhler » Willard ,
AMERICANS
IN SERIES OF
SEA DISASTERS
Mine or Torpedo Causes Terrific Explosion on Channel
Steamer Sussex, Carrying Many Citizens of U. S.;
Stays Afloat; Seventy-five Are Missing; Four Yan
kees Unaccounted For After Liner, Carrying Horses Is
Torpedoed
GERMAN RAIDER SUNK BY MERCHANTMAN
WHICH FOLLOWS HER TO THE BOTTOM
Loss of Life on Both Vessels Heavy; Engagement Oc
curred in North Sea; Victor Is Blown Up by Torpedo
From Teuton Vessel Sinking From Gunfire; British
Steamship Salybia Is Lost
Many Americans arc reported killed or drowned in a series of
sea disasters. I'hc cross channel steamer Sussex, with many citizens
01 the United States on board, was seriously damaged by ail interior
explosion. It is not definitely known how many were killed,
I'our ankees 011 a British horsewhip are believed to have been
killed when it was torpedoed bv the Germans.
A naval encounter iirtlie North Sea has resulted in the sinking
ol tlic liermau raider (jreif by the British armored merchantman
Alcantara, which followed her victim to the bottom, struck in a vital
part by a turpedo.
Information obtained from passen- the North Sea. Five German officers
gers on the channel steamship Sussex, j ami 115 men out of a total of 300 were
damaged by an explosion yesterday captured. The British lost 74 men
afternoon on the way from Folkestone The British armored merchantman
to Dieppe, indicates there may have | Alcantara, wh'ch sunk the German
been a considerable loss of life. One j raider, the Greif, was herself sunk
American is missing and is supposed I The fight occurred in the North Sea
to have been lost. Another was In- on February 29. The Groif was sunk
.lured seriously. Several Americans |by gunfire and the Alcantara by a tor
were rescued. pedo. The British losses were made
Opinion of passengers of the Sussex "p of live officers and 0!) men.
is divided as to whether the vessel was The Alcantara was a larg" liner he
the victim of a mine or a torpedo, longing to the It ova I Alaii Steam
The explosion was terrific, ft occurred I Packet Company, of Belfast. She hat.
.iust ahead of the captain's bridge and } been in the service of the British gov
tore (he front port of the steamer to ] eminent for some time. Iler gross
pieces, killing or injuring a number of tonnage was 15,300. She was 570 fee;
persons. .Many were wounded severely long and was built in Glasgow in 1913
by flying splinters. j 270 Women ou Ron I'd
The admiralty states that 250 sur-, The Difficulties imposed by war
vivors have been landed in France and conditions in communicating with
between, 90 and 100 at Dover. As | English and cross-channel ports have
there were 386 passengers and about, made it impossible thus far to obtain
50 men in the crew. 75 or more per- 1 accurate information regarding th<
sons are still missing. circumstances of the sinking of th.
German Raider Sinks I
A German raider has been sunk in 1 (Continued on Pag© 17.)
a ... v.
<■ Paris, March 25. Samuel F. Bemis, of Mcdford, |
I Mass., a passenger on the Sussex, said to-day that he saw, I/
! plainly and unmistakably, the wake of a torpedo coming T
toward the steamer. f
VILLA OFFICERS ESCAPE FROM JAIL |
El Paso, Tex., March 25.—Genera] Manuel Medinavis- 4
tda and General Manuel Banda, two former Villa officers, i
who were taken into custody here a few days ago, hav.e JL
disappeared from the El Paso jail and are understood to T
1 be on their way to New Orleans.
<»
I CARRANZA AGREES TO U. S. PROPOSALS
j » Queretaro, March 24.—General Carranza's reply to the * *
I! latest note of the Washington government was handed
| I to-day to James L. Rodgers, the American representative *
j here for transmission to Washington. The reply agrees
in the main to the American proposals but a few unim- • >
, portant changes are suggested. ■ >
J VERDUN REPORTED IN FLAMES
Berlin, March 2S.—Verdun is in flames, according to t »
9 to-day's official statement by German army headquarters. . )
J V
iNO MASSING OF CARRANZA TROOPS
Washington, March 25.—Major General Funston tele
graphed the War Department to-day that his military ob- ■ '
servers after a survey find there has been no massing of f
Carranza troops along the border. A
EIGHT KILLED IN TORNADO J:
Oklahoma City, Okla., March 25,—Eigbt persons w.-rc I
« f killed m a farm house two miles east of Davis, Oklahoma, * *
I by a tornado which struck that section last night. The path
i » of the tornado was eight miles long. 1 ►
! • "
► MARRIAGE LICENSES 1 <
,| \VMII» llc.rrlj and Knima l.nnr, city.
1 .Inmen Oavld Uiycr llltd <Mauml Klalicr, city. {•'
E ' komM t rankiln linker aud l'cnrl May Cornalir, city. .
El 1 W i^ lwt ,,| |
20 PAGES CITY EDITION
