The True Democrat.
VOLUM V S RANISVILLS, WE PL AA PAR LOU ANA SATURDAY MARCH ,, ,tt. NO-.
VOLUlMl XXV IT, IIRANISVItLLI, WILrT' E$I'IOIANA, PAlltttl LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, MARCH 8S, tll N.
THE FORD TRACTOR
Model B
Notwithstanding the recent heavy advances in the price of
steel and iron, and practically all materials used in its con
struction, THE FORD TRACTOR, New Model "B." with its
many up-to-date improvements, maintains its supremacy as
the lowest priced serviceable tractor an the market.
Full $465f, o. b.
Equpped $465 tor
I HAVE ON HANO ONE TRACTOR. SELLING AT $0 f.o.b. FACTORY
'CHAS WEYDERT.
HONEST WEIGHTS HONEST MEASURES
GEO. RETTIG
' The Groc.
HONEST VALUES HONEST PRICES
M.. . --'SI M-IIIRIIMI--
WOODLAWN FARM
J. B. McGEHIE (18W-1918)
We stand upon the threshold of a new year, to briaS,
we trust, harder work than ever with Its attendant mullnd.
But thus compelling our faithful ields to unlock their stores
to us and to those dependent, to furnish eber for the guet
within our igates and help for our less fortunate brother, we
shall fnd as always the complete satisfaction that CalrToN
is perfect sad ahr an admirable home.
Our best wishes to every sentient beinllg
SUCoESS L S IN MUTUAL SlRVCE.
J. . McGEHEE * * * * LarD Hill, La.
COALI COAL!
When in need of Coal
that will burn, ring
Telephone No. I.
Prompt delivery.
Bayou Sara Ice &
Coal Works.
'HA UP RA SPUS
Pakerk Fores Seed SCals
wag to St. Frncivell.
The meeting of the Parker lub held
on Saturday was addressed by two
speakers from New Orleaans, Mesrs.
Harry Pitspatrick and ~ia Leonard,
alias Van Horen The Parker oas
paigp manager must be bard up for
speakers to send out a man ilke Jim
Leonard to our community a man with
a varied political career, ranging from
a scalawag ton his youth to suessiove
changes with the passing years, dating
from his early departure frm Baton
Rouge to follow his trade a 'A printer,
but principally as a labor agitator. K.
is remembered by old eitisoea of Dates
Rouge, but not with pleasure.
Jim Leonard. alias Van Horsen, led
the big strike In 181, and accord
lag to his own story told Mr. Stadler,
and by the latter recounted ti a recent
speech, the day following the strike, at
a meetiag of the busine mene of the
eity. Mr. Parker asked that a resole
tics be passed to lynch him (Leonard)
and Mayor Pitupatrckle as being is
sponsible for the strike. He said to
Mr. Stadler to 191J that be would not
support Hall, for "If ever I an eught
supportlag a man who has aything to
do with John M. Parker, I will eut my
throat." Mr. Parker has mew attaebed
him to his corps of speakers to abuse
Mr. Ewing And yet in the States of
tuesday, the "Man to the Street" In
an interesting article tells how Leonard
was for yars barred from the mews
Spaper olSese of the Tlne.Desmorat
Item and Picayune, and when he was
on hib uppers Mr. Ewing gave him a
job on the States. As a striking printer,
he is now repaying Mr. wting with the
cotl of Ingrates vililtestleo. He pre
fer that, It seems, "to sutttug his
throat." leonard is now eharged with
illegal registrato. and his amess will
be removed from the rolls.
-- - _ L.
MINUTES OP SCHOOL SOARD
IXICUTIVI COMMITTEl.
The Iecutive and Pilasae Commatb
tees of the Schoo Board of West fe
iciean Parish met l all eI senlt o
Saturday, March 1, 1911$. All moe
ben were presenat.
The meeting was called to order by
Presidet Bowman. The object of the
meeting was stated as primarily to
peas a reesolatio authordstg the super
lateadest to eopt aid from the Juaier
Iateatioa Department for the furthke
lag of the club activities in the parish.
A resolution was red and adopted.
This resolution is appended ereto and
made a part hereof.
Supt. Creap ealied the attention of
the Committee to the fact that a pek
age of vouhers whbeib ad beer ,s
amined and approved by the Supe
visor of Publie Asousnats had bees iest
in trn!sit and that be had plaed a
elaim with the Wells, Parge Co. for
the sum of * In compeastle for
the tee, o -
After fa lrther disesasin of matter
upon whisk no oelel aetion wea takes,
the Committee, on motio, adjarned.
JAS. P BOWMAN, Predest. I
R. & CRUMP, Secretary, i
Wherom, It has ben represeated to
this Be ardo that the Juntor Itesea i
Deartment of the State Univerll I
desire to reeogiaLse the work that is
bei done is this parish along the i
lines eof pig, eorna. poetry, ete., eldb
organimation and the promotto of
betteo aricultural metlhods amog the
younlg people of this peribh and that
this Department further desitres to help
defray the expenes of this work by a
supplementing the salary of the pe s
eat larih supertatedent who has ,
been largely istrumental tin orgnslsatsg ,
the work and who desitres to continoe
to devote a portion of his time to the
furthering of the varws eluat activities r
in the prish. and
Wherss, It hs been rweprseted to
this bard that the present saupeai
tendent itOdeds to pourebane a nate
mobie wbhich will have the eect ofa
saving a grent port of bie time, eta b
1tmg him to ltvisit the schooe oftener,
ad more quickly. thus givisl n lg ,i
more time to bespent i• the oseatry
among the people of the perish and
more time for oMe work, a d a
W3 rusa. A statemet from the State o
Speristemdent of Publde ducstotn has
bean read is our eartya tn wkhle be
states that this Olub work ti an lm
portast part of the school work and
tlhat be sees ething i the law to
weret eour legally aeptIg sus a
(eiditrai o s pe l a
iNmI st sAianoiA EbrnDE F
LP ISASANH WEST RDANA
Two large and eathubastle De-
emite meeatingss were held in West
IPeitolana. Wednesday, when Col. Rat
eI o 0. Pleasant, Democratie nsomne
for governor, addressed the voter of
the fthb ward at Orange Hall In the
morning, and at St. rasnlsvllle in the
afteroono.
Ced. Pleansat arrived fre Shlreve
port oe the early train. Aceoumpaned
by Jeds. J L. olsma. Judge 8,. Net.
Lanltees. A. B, Brtant, C. T. Toaae.,
W C, Howel, C. M. Downs, Jas. Batler,
C T. Noreworthy and lrie Robinson.
the semocratie nominee was take by
autetobile to Orange Hall. Meesra.
t'hae Arlge, Man Dampt sad W. L.
tirl'a drove direct htrm Laurel Hill
to Orange Hall, sad Dr. J. W. Lee aad
Hoe. DI M. Pipe came over from
Ou the afternoon before, Parker
pepse had driven to the sommeunlty
ad Masked up large peoters all aleg
the stay, contailatlg ade stas against
the Demosratic party sad Col. Pleasant.
This eties was reseated by the people
of the ltth ward, who are as deeply
attaheed to the Democratie paty as
they an to their religion or their love
of fair play. They simply destroyed
the poters.
A targe aember of the voters of
Orange Hall and neighboring precinets
were present to hear the prinielples of
Demoaersy eapoended by her standard
bearer. COIapleuous i the audience
were nmaser of Confederate veterans.
R. J Thenm. Confederate veteran sad
see of a veteran of the War of 1813,
presided at this meeting. The Irst
spakesr was Dietriet Judge J. i. Golsan,
whomade a straight Democrati spseech,
sbowlag learly and well the difference
betwesa the Demoeatie party and the
Progressive party, headed i Louisiana
by John M. Parker.
4ea. D. MM.Pipes, Demeratle amo.
**oe . 8 ate ~ator, was the nest
spekber. He attended college with
Col. Pleasant and attested strongly to
the sterting worth of the choice of
111,000 Demoerats of Louisiana for
their Governor.
Col. Pleasant was greeted with
hearty applause whea he arose to
speak, and also at many points through
out his address.
His address was substantially the
nse as delivered at St. PraeIsvlille
I. the afternoon.
M IUTINU IN .'OWN.
very seat was takes and many
"*re standing whoa the meeting was
called to order in the court boues, In
the afteraneo The ladies had decorated
the room with owesa which made a
pretty background for Mr. Pteasant.
This crowd was fully as large as the
crowd which greeted Mr. Parker, the
Progresive candidate, when be spoke
here a few weeks ago, with this differ
nee, when Mr, Parker spoke here, a
large number of Democrate were pres.
ont; but whe Mr. Pleasat spoke the
Progreetve were conspieuouse by their
absence.
Mayor Briant saNled the meeting to
order ad presented4 Mr. Cha. Argue,
chairman of the Parish Democratiei
BeeoutIve Committoe, who litrodeedI
C'ol. Plasant. The speaker was ln a
partleularly happy frame of malnd andi
nmade one of tihe most sincere, straight
forward talks that has ever been made I
In the ctourt bone. He kept his talk I
remarkably free from perlsonalittee and [
~fnd it easy to resere heartly applause
Jkout resnrtlas to the use of thei
short and ugly word as dones his Pro
rnsive opponent.
(o. Pleasant delned the rfunadamental
dtllretnee eltetiang betweenM the4emo
rsrtle sad Progressive partlee, giving
the rardtnal priWnciple of ehb, and
showed bhow oboelous the beliefs of
those of the Bull Moo persuasion are
to the people of the oauth, both in a
clommeretlal, eocal and moral way He
-harsnlerlsea Mr Parier as a sleralce
to his own love of hls politital patron
salt--lTheaeore Rooseverdt. He tstaed
hat at the Plrogreive conventIon at
'bltcago, In 1918. Reosevtt appeared
on the platform with his ars aroulnd
the she)ders of two big black bucks I
and said "These two eorend gaptle
ome are the equal of any white men
presrt " Mr Parker, he i14, was
present as a delegate to rtls soeven.
Mon, mad mnde mo deIala of the seoitl
i.uatlon made by his chief.
Cc. Pleabat gave Mr. Parker credit
o honesty In his eeavotlonas in wat
-lg to keep the negro sat of the Pro
gresive party of Ldstana, but albowed
how atterty Impesble it will be Io I
keep his eet if the Progrusee show I
y sna~Isrles slmegth, hr the Prf
R. J. THOM
Confederate Veteran and boe of a
Veteran of the War of 181J, pre
sided at the Orasse Hall meetig.
gruesive party as a whole is not a
white 1aua's party. Ho stated that wilt
two struou parties in this state Ii
would not be possible to bar the aegro
for both sides would bring the negro it
and the aegro would then demand.
and receive - at the bhands of the domi
snat party, quanl political privileges
which would lead to the conditios
,vhich existed in Louisiana duriag re
(onstrucllin days. The only way, he
said, to obviate this unfortunate state
of sefirs would be to have but out
party. Should there be ditereoese be
Seees men in thiL party he eounseled
them to Sght It out in the rnaks of the
paarr, and thee, as honorable mea., be
bound by the result of the party
primary, Just as was done in 1PIL
dSeaktag of Mr. lParker's plitialt
consistency. Col. Pleasant at Orasr.
Hall. showed that his opponent had
been Democrat, Rlepublleas. Progres.
sIve and "squaw man" all within less
than ten years.
Comang to Mr. Parker's Issue of
"bossism," Col. Pleasant recounted the
defeat of the bonses In the primary of
1912 and their determination to support
the man who seemed strongest ia the
country in future campaigns. ol.
Pte ast's lght against the coastitu,
tioalu cenvenUon brought hblm prom
neatly before the country people of
this state. With Dr. Pierson's with
drawal and Mr. barret's espousal of
the prohibition cause, he was the og0
cal intuner in the gubernatorial rae
and the New Orleans le(lers naturally
'hone the winner. He stated that he
had never appruached the New Orleans
leaders for their support, nor had be
been approached by theta.
Concerning the famous "pink ticket"
part of Mr. Parker's argument, COL.
Pleasant stated that be had absolutely
iothing to do with it and knew nothing
sbout it until after the oiectlon. He
was ulformed that the ticklet had been
made for uae in the city of New
Lrlerans and that the Parker people9
had seured possMession of some of
hem and sent them to the country for
political elect. He then showed a
asrked tIcks t used in one of the pre
nlncts of Net Orleans prepared by the
riends of ' ('. ('hliborne, showingL that
entlleman's name with a ero sne mark
_ppoelte, and wanted to know what
iek PFerd had coming.
('ol Pleasant also xhilblted marked
Ieketa put out by Mr. Parker and his
bores in the Good Government Langue
ight of i19. both in city and country
The ticket put out by Mr Parker in
qew Orlens In 1911 was rervelatlon
: manly uf ('Ol Pleaant'l hearers
hena Mr PFarker spoke here a few
**ks aljo. he stated that the late
SVilleret. of this parishrl. who was a
eandidale for Secretary of Stat. In
hat eampalgn, was a victim of the
.ew Ortceans blses The ticket which
dr Parker put out tre a reos mark
pposlite the name of AlIin E Hebert
or BKeretary ,f stat.. t4o, if Mr. VII
eret was I victim of the boases In
lt. as Mr Parker says he was. it is
say to ~oe what borses it was that
Itelmtised him
Col Pleasnt's address was well re
'lved and was the causw qf several
uke'warm Parker supiorters changlnlg
heir opiniton after having heard both
idee of the question
(ol Pleasant left later in the afer"
on fIor New Roads to make a spoeh:
n the eventn. He was seeompanit~d
y Messrs. Jake Morrison, J. A Day'
ils, Jeba Vigase ad George Kearney
A CONFEDERATE VTERAN
SWrites His Comrades About
Progresive Party.
("A C'unfederate Veteran)) In New
Orleans States.)
It is a conceded fact, disputed by
,oneb, that the Progresive party, of
wsech Mr. John M. Parker is the
nun.,,ce for governor, was founded by
i hevodore Itroevelt. It is likewlae a
conlcu'eded fact that John I. Parker has
uny allowed himself to become a oa
dedate for public omllee on acoount of
and for the benefit of his personal
iriend. Mr. T'heodore Roosevelt.
every voter in the State of Louisiana
that u ill give the matter a moment's
thought will kntow that If he should
vote for John M Parker on eleetonI
day., that he must stamp the emblem
of the Prograstivo party and that be
m., therefore, lending his e1brt to place
Iouislana in the eolumn of states that
are subservient to the Interests of the
party that is dominated by and whose
existence and object is the self ag4gree
disenment of Theodore Roosevelt.
As the above facts are well knows to
all, I as quite astonished, Ila fot
shocked, when I read a report il the
Hepublican-Progrealsve organ of Mr.
Parker that two alleged Conederate
ieft'ran in the city of Oates Rouge
were supporting the Proglsive par1ty
and its nomtinee.
It immediately struck as that these
eterants, If the statemenat were true,
tad evidently never read what Thee
lore Roosevelt had said about the late
lelerson I)avis, president of the Co.
federate States.
for their beneit and for the bhesdt
Of those men who fought for four long
veere for what they believed was right
utd who followed the prineipleD of
leferson Davls, I quote from Mr. Roes.
elI's work on the lite of Mr. enteln.
On page 1U of this wort and speak
'ng of Jetrser cavto. Mr Ioaseldt
used the following language:
"The moral difference betwoes e a
ediet Arnold on the one hand. and
baron Burr or Jefferson Dvis on the
other. Is precisely the dlIereaee that
obtains between a politician who sells
his vote for money and pae who supl
ports a bad measure In sonsldertioa
of being given some high poitiesl
.,oitilon"
On page 8S0 of the tae wert
dr. Roosevelt agsain refers to Mr. Dauis
as follows:
"lBefore Jefferson Davis took his
plaes among the arch traitors In our
annals he had already long been knows
"i one of the chief repudiators; It was
not unnatural that to dishonesty to
wards the creditors of the public he
should afterrwards add treachery to
ards the public Itself."
I personally think that every Mouth.
romer, every lutlstanta and evert
.'onfelerate veteran and his son and
,rrandon should atop, reslet and
etrtouusly conslder the proposItlon of
hether they feel that they are wlligag
to turn the Stale of Louilsnln over
j'ollticallv to I man who has charl
,rised the betloved leader of the South
,a an areh traltor and who was no
t,e'tter morally than Benedlet Arnold,
eho attempted to sell peaoutry for
Cnllshb gold.
PREPARATION OF SEED BEO.
All corn land should be plowed bread
'ast. even diskinl befo, plowlng If
:lie Ipermit. The freshly plowed
raitnd should be harrowed or dished
hitle, still moist to prevent the forms'
ion oft clod. The depth of breakIng
he soil a Iill depend on the kind of selt.
me of year the plowingl isa doe, and
I,, depth to whblrh broke in previous
ars. If the soll ha. been plowed from
wo to three inrhes it Is not advisable
o increase the depth aetenasively In
one year. a that tulrnLs uip usweathered
rbhti In arid and smerl4td regionsl
his does not mak' any dilereneo, but
in lautlllsana the yield of anty erop will
'w dsecreas.d for veral years. The
prevention of thisl d~wree ay hobe
brought aboult by plowtlag a little
dleper each year say one Inch. The
rws may be laid off almost immediate
ly after harrowing if one eupects to
rlant In a short while. The ridges or
beds on which the corn Is plated
Shol1d never be made bhiher than Ia
ieceearvy for surface dr'ainsae.-·-A. P.
Kidder. lofhlsana State Unfivertsity.
"It's hard to keep a good man dowa"
, 'he .ith slaid of JoaIl.
of Ne~w Reade. who had come over tor
tbhe speaking here, and by Judge .. 1.
Oolesa, Wilbur Besnett of Cliton, andu
others.
