OHIO ".TATE
UN IV, rtSlTY
)
I -ilM
MAf J7 lOUx
INDEPENDENT
NONPARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, MARCH 25, 1916
Vol. III. No. 49
One Dollar a Year
A y S Tg W" 7T A 27 m
-f " -M-f " -f-f4-f-t-4--f-f-f -
-- - ri --.i -v ' T'Jil i- ri
-I ss ..iiuu&aj y. -rr jm m
LIBRAIWIfiir -- lSr&fimMfflWnnmtmjmm,ffl
Ihe auur :,i:MUVULciic
I M AT imii to S -e9 - f fr . C
y '! u m m m m m m m a ?. a mum ana n- m m Ann u a h iljt m m m -w - n ,rs. iw -.-.- -.- -
a a. v a. a & a at,. s& a & a ib ft a && a jl , a a. sl b t . t - uifiuci u esi utz I & &&u.zo
m y
Call For "Labor's World
Peace Congress"
He Settled the Trouble With the Ohio Union Brewery After a Hard
Fight, and Union Labor Will Get the Work.
The Agreement With the Employers' Construction Association Was Ratified. S. S.
Kresge's Five and Ten-Cent Stores, the Arts and Crafts Laundry and The Cam
bridge Tile Co. Put on the "We Don't Patronize List." The City Increases the
Pay of Painters.
Business Agent Fred Hock reported
to the Building Trades Council last
Thursday night that the differences be
tween the Iron Workers and the Ohio
Union Brewery had been settled through
the personal elTorts of Adolph Kumnier.
The work for placing the 27 iron tanks
in position was awarded to Frank Foltz
& Co., who are fair to union labor.
The business agents of the Building
Trades had about abandoned the case of
the Ohio Union Brewery as hopeless
and had intended to put them on the un
fair list last Thursday night, when
Adolph Kummer appeared upon the
scene and offered his services, stating
that the Lauou Aiivocati: had the wrong
idea about his speech and his intentions,
and that he would prove it.
His offer was accepted and Kumnier
worked all day in an auto getting the
proper people together, and when he did
he told them a few things.
He talked to his own crowd stronger
than any agent of the Building Trades
ever did and showed them what would
happen if the Building Trades Council
put the International llrcvvery Workers
on the unfair list. And he finally won.
rraTr,KFdir?-wai"g'iv'n' the wdrk.HjUtHt'
took a hard battle, and Kumnier de
serves all the credit. He has placed tlie
International Brewery Workers under a
greater obligation to him than he did
the Building Trades Council when it
gets through their heads.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was called to order by
President Jos. Cullen.
The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and adopted.
The following communication from
Plumbers' Local No. .121 of Huntington,
W. Va., w as read and filed :
Huntington, W. Va., March 22, 101(1.
Mr Fred Hock, Secretary, Cincinnati
Building Trades Council, Cincinnati,
Ohio :
Dear Sir and Brother Local Union
Xo. .121 hereby wishes to express their
sincere thanks to the Cincinnati Build
ing Trades Council for their efforts and
help to try to bring about a settlement
with the Broekway Plumbing and Sup
ply Company of this city.
Yours, fraternally,
C. V. Swanw,
Secretary, Plumbers' Union Xo. .121,
P. O. Box '.)!).
The following communication from
the Ohio State Building Trades Council
was read and concurred in :
Cincinnati, O., March 18, 101(1.
Dear Sir and Brother The Ohio
State Building Trades Council, at the
request of the Toledo Building Trades
Council, have placed the S. S. Kresge
Company, Five and Ten-Cent Store peo
ple, on the "We Don't Patronize" list.
This firm have let the contract for the
'crI-ctiolTOfliehTlrEV"l)uiiairrg in T6Iedo'
to a contracting firm who are deliber
ately antagonistic to organised labor. We
have made every effort to straighten
this matter out but have been unsuccess
ful, and as the Kresge Company draws
the great bulk of their business from the
wage-earners, we feel that their work
should be given to contractors who em
ploy union labor, and request that jou
appoint a committee to call on the local
manager of the Kresge store in your
city, and inform him of the action taken
and hae him use his good offices with
the company to the end that this job
may be unionized and that you endorse
the action we have taken.
Wishing the Building Trades success,
and hoping to hear from jou, 1 remain,
Fraternally yours,
Tlios. 11. Mucavi.n,
Secretary-Treasurer.
A communication from the clerk of
the City Council, notified the Council
that the ordinance by Mr. Martin Daly,
to increase the painters' pay had been
adopted, and that in the future the city
would pay the increased scale.
Mr. Davidson, advance agent of "The
Weavers," addressed the Council on the
merits of that production. He explained
the objects of the play and the interest
displayed in it by union labor.
The contract between the Building
Construction Employers' Association
and the Building Trades Council was
ratified, and the chair appointed the fol
lowing brothers as members of the joint
arbitration board: Jos. A. Cullen, Fred
Hock, Philip Fischer; alternates, Roy
Herbert, James Davis, and Phil Gos-
dorf- ..
"THe Gilindry"V"Oikers "notified the
Council that they had placed the Arts
and Crafts Laundry on the "We Don't
Patronize" list.
The Steam-Fitters announced that
their local had taken the same course
with the Cambridge Tile Company.
Business Agent Hock's report was
read and adopted. All trades reported
business good.
There being no further business be
fore the meeting, the same adjourned
to next Thursday night.
X To Convene At the Same Time and Place As the X
X Representatives From the Different Countries X
Now at War, Who Will Meet To Determine J
f The Terms of Peace. 1
OPEN SHOP
From Xow On, Declares Laundry
Proprietor Union's Views.
Laundry Workers' Union, Local No.
57, a few days ago in Labor Auditorium,
discussed plans for picketing .the Arts
and Crafts Laundry, 1!)02 Colerain ave
nue, where .'10 of its members were lock
ed out. Members of Teamsters' Union
and Machinists' Union will assist.
Andrew Herding, proprietor of the
laundry, said last night the lockout was
caused when girl employes declared they
would not work under the direction of
Mrs. Nellie Finley, forewoman, and de
manded her discharge.
"I was conducting a union shop, but
from now on it will be open," said Herd
ing. "I expect to have the laundry run
ning full force in two or three days."
"We objected to Mrs. Finley as fore
woman because she worked against our
union in a recent strike," said Mrs. Edna
C. Ohnstcin, president and business
agent of the union, last night.
PAINTHKK 1CA1S10 WAGES.
North Yakima, Wash. The Painters'
Union has reorganized and secured a
wage increase of .in cents a day and a
union shop agreement.
The carpenters have perfected a tem
porary organization and made applica
tion to the Brotherhood of Carpenters
for a charter.
The Central Labor Council
Will Organize Florists and Gardeners While the Laborers
Union Is Shrinking In Membership, Due to the
Ward Leaders.
At a meeting last Tuesday night of
Central Labor Council a letter from
United States Senator Pomcrenc was
read, in which he said he would be glad
to bear in mind the Council's request
that he vote in confirmation of the ap
pointment of Louis D. Brandeis as As
sociate Justice of the United States
Supreme Court.
The Organization Committee report
ed it planned to organize a union com
posed of Cincinnati florists and gar
deners. Through the Organization Committee
the Musicians' Union requested the
Grievance Committee, after investiga
tion, be given the power to place thea
tres that the union deems unfair on the
unfair list of council.
The board also recommended that
the council hold an outing on Labor
Day, and Secretary Prout be instruct
ed to request the Building Trades Coun
cil to act in conjunction with Central
Labor Council on that day. The recom
mendation was concurred in.
Plans reported by the organizers look
to the forming of unions of all the steno
graphers in the city and vicinity and the
unionizing of all local summer resorts.
City and ward politicians were blamed
for the wilted condition of the Labor
ers' Union to which most of the city
laborers belong. The membership of
this organization has shrunk from 100
men until it now has but 1.1 in good
standing, and it has been threatened
with suspension by the A. F. of L. for
remissness in dues.
The council decided to go to the help
of the union and to keep up its stand
ing with the A. F. of L. while an ac
tive campaign will be conducted to win
back all the members who have drop
ped out.
CINCINNATI CONTRACTORS
Will Have Best Chance To Obtain
Loop Contract, Says Schott.
"I will use all my efforts and influ
ence to sec that local contractors get the
contract for building the rapid transit
system," said Christian Schott, one of
the Rapid Transit Commissioners, at the
meeting of the Findlay Market Improve
ment Association at Flamm's Hall, Elder
street and McMicken avenue.
"In all probability," he continued, "lo
cal contractors will secure the deal, as
Cincinnati men are drawing the plans
and an engineer makes a plan suitable
for the contractors in his city, so that
they will be able to bid and have better
chances of securing the contract."
Frank L. Raschig, assistant city en
gineer, explained the loop with the aid
of stereopticon views.
THE ELECTRICAL BALL
The Electrical Workers' Local 21:.'
will give its annual ball at Cosmopolitan
Hall, Saturday night, April 1, l'.iKl. An
excellent program has been prepared by
Walter Esberger, who will direct the
music. The shadow dance, the snow
dance, and all the old favorites will be
put on, in addition to a number of new
stunts. If you want to have a good time,
join the Electricians on April-fool night.
CAKPEXTKKS TO KAISE WAGES.
Topeka, Kan. The Carpenters' Un
ion is negotiating a new wage contract
with employers. These workers are
asking for the union shop, -1.1 cents an
hour and an eight-hour day. As the
result of an organizing campaign, the
local has increased in membership from
20 to over 200 within the past year.
SIGNING TA1 LOUS' CONTRACT.
Richmond, Va. Merchant tailors are
signing the new wage scale of the Jour
neymen Tailors' Union, which has been
presented after a vigorous organizing
campaign.
TO THE OKGAXIXKI) LAIIOK MOVEMENT OK ALL COCNTKIES:
Friends and Brothers Will you send a representative to attend
a Labor's World Peace Congress? This Congress to be held at
the same time and in the same city as the representatives from
the dill'ereut countries will meet to determine the terms of peace.
The American Federation of Labor Contention, held Novem
ber, 101-1, four months alter the war be-all, adopted a resolution
which provided lor the calling of a Labor Congress for the same
time and place that the general Peace Congress shall be held, which
will determine conditions and terms of peace at the close of the
war. This action was ollicially communicated to all national trade
iin i on centers.
The proposal to hold a Labor Congress was generally discussed
by the various national labor movements during the past year, and
some of them have ollicially approved the plan.
In other countries thought K concentrated on the immediate
and compelling problems of daily life problems so urgent that all
else must wait upon the future. We appreciate the intense strain
with which our fcllow-vtorlicrs of Kurope await the outcome of
the day's struggle on the battlefield and the ultimate decision of
the war.
We are not unmindful of the issues involved for which men
are shedding their blood and giving their lives. AVe, too, have
been confronted by national problems which have grown out of
war conditions, and now our great concern is that out of the
horrors, the suffering, the destruction of war, there shall come
greater opportunity, freedom and protection for those who do the
world's work the toilers of all countries.
Everywhere the -wage-earners by service have proved their
loyalty to concepts of honor, their patriotism, their value as men
and women. In the past they hare borne not only the burdens
of fighting (luring the war, but have been weighted down by the
war debts and readjustments attending a return to peace condi
tions. The workers can refuse to be the victims of the blunderers,
the evil plans, the ambitions of those responsible for this war. In
their struggle against oppression have been born yearnings for
human freedom, for better opportunities, for justice in life and
work. During the centuries they have made progress sometimes
slow, It is true, but always progress. It has been a long light
from slavery to the present degree of freedom.
There is great opportunity in the immediate future for de
mocracy and freedom. A century ago the feudal system died in
the Napoleonic wars that convulsed Kurope, and the third cstnte
established their right to freedom and participation in the affairs
of government and society.
Slowly hut surely the workers have been making demands for
recognition of their rights as human beings and as members of
society, and have established many of them.
Since the outbreak of war, their economic importance, their
political and military power have been tacitly and often oflieinlly
recognized. Statesmen have recognized that organizations of wage
earners are an integral part of organized society part of the
vitals of the nation.
In appreciation of their dignity and value, it Is the duty of the
wage-earners to make demands upon the world assembled in the
next World Congress that nothing touching the lives of the work
ers shall be determined without taking counsel with them. Such
a demand made by the personal representatives of the wage-earners
assembled in the same place and at the same time as the
World Peace Congress would have a tremendous effect upon the
spirit and the determinations of that Congress.
Such a demand would set high standards of democracy and
would give prominence to principles of human welfare that could
not be Ignored.
The labor movement is the great humanizing, democratizing
force in the affairs of nations, and it must have a place wherever
the welfare of the wage-earners is concerned.
If demands are not made they can lie Ignored with good con
sciences. But when ideals of human welfare, the rights and in
terests of the common people are presented and urged in world
tribunals, they can not be wholly rejected. These demands will
not be presented or considered unless the wage-earners send their
representatives. This Labor Congress is an obligation we owe
to our ideals and to fellow -workers of the present and the future
as well as a great opportunity
The problem is to have the fullest and the best representation
in the Labor Congress, and through it a voice and influence in the
World Congress.
The report of the Executive Council to the thirty-tlfth annual
convent ion of the American Federation of Labor, held in San
Francisco beginning November S, 1915, contained a plan for the
holding of the proposed Labor's Peace Congress. The plan is
necessarily llexlble and broad the purpose is to insure full repre
sentation from the workers of all countries and you are urged
to communicate with me as soon as possible, expressing the atti
tude of the labor movement of your country upon this plan.
The plan approved by the American Federation of Labor con
tains the following general suggestions:
Let every national center allillated to the International Feder
ation of Trade Cnlons send not more than two delegates to the
conference. The labor movement of any country, even though
not alliliated, could send one delegate. If there is no one general
labor movement in a country, let the representatives of the or
ganizations of that country agree to send one delegate. Then It
should also be understood that representatives of this congress
must be either olllclals or duly accredited representatives of eco
nomic organizations of wage-earners. The delegates to this in
ternational conference before leaving their home countries should
make provisions for publicity through the labor and reform press
of the countries for the deliberations and the decisions of the
-f-
