THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1909
A Democratic journal, devotcd to Local and 6cneral News, Litcrature, Science, Igriculture, Etc.
VOL. XL * COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 1916 NUMBER 23
Ward Six Maes Meeting.
The mass meeting of the citi
zens of ward six was called to
order by chairman W. M. Stew
art, and N. S. Roberts was elect
ed secretary.
Mr. J. B. Roberts, attorney,
gave his views of drainage and
leveeing. Mr. C. H. Teal ad
dressed the meeting, and said in
his address that the thing to do
was to fill all of the openings in
the L. R. & N. Railway and make
a levee at Shell Point; that this
" would keep the water off the
people on the east side of the L.
R. & N. road, and that there was
only two citizens on the west side
of the railroad.
The attention of Mr. Teal was I
called to the fact that there were
eightee or nineteen land owners
on the west side of the L. R. &
N. Co. tracks, saying nothing
about Natchitoches parish. There 1
are about sixty-four hundred
acres in Grant on the west side, I
and about six or seven thousand I
acres in Natchitoches parish that
the filling in would put under
water, and the east side of the
L R. & N. would be protected I
at the loss of the west side and I
across Red riter, while there is
not over three thousand acres on
the east side of the L. R & N. I
to be protected.
Mr. Teal brought with him r
from Colfax a resolution written i
by him or some one at Colfax. t
He read the resolution and asked I
that all sign it, and there was no r
move made to offer this resolu
tion, no second, or no vote taken e
whatsoever, a
I. McMills addressed the meet- '
"ing and said he was willing to -
have a levee on the river front
or open up the fills which are in
Cane river and Boggy bayou, but
e bitterly opposed the proposi
t m h Mr. Teal proposed.
Mr. . 'Quinn addressed
the meeting the same
ground that Mr. Teal c .
Mr. N. S. Roberts addressed
the meeting and said if we are
going to have a drainage district
for us to try to get the fills out
of the model road in Boggy bay
ou, and the fill in Cane river
about Natchitoches, and if we
are going to have a levee district
we ought to levee Shell Point
and come to the Dunn hill and
on the Nantachi bayou front to
the river and come come down
the river front to Boggy bayou.
He said to fill in the openings
that the L. R. & N. Co. has in
their track would do too little
good for all that it would injure.
After we adjourned tle reso
lution was circulated and signed
by land owners and by non-land
owners. N. S. ROBERTS,
Secretary.
Send us your job printing orders.
Proclamation of Election.
STATE OF LOUI IANA 1
Parish of Grant.
By the authority rveted In as by law and In ar*
eordanrwlth and in pursuance to the proclama
Wton of H's Excelleney Luther E. Hall. Governor
of the State of l,oulla,a. we do hereby order an
election of the quallfed voters to be held In the
parish of Grant. State of l,oulslana. at the amual
plaesn for holding elections In said parishb. on
TUESDAY. ARII. IN. 11. I6.
said date belng the Tuesday followIng the third
Monday In said month.
The election so ordered to be held Is for the
purpose of electing the followinlr omccers.to-wlt:
All of the State officers (of the State of Louli.t
ana: one Senator for the 27th nenatorialdiltrict;
all of the parish and ward officers of the parish
of Grant. I.ouisIans.
Saild election to be held In accordance with the
general election lawn of the State of Louialana
and due returnat t 'o b nade an the law directs.
The followung conrnalaloners and clerkt are
hereby apolnlted. directed and empowered to
hold aaid election accordlIng to law. vis:
WARD ONE.
(Colfax-A. W. LewIs. R. E. McKnlarht, JoeCar
ver. rnlnslaollnecs. A. Perkins. clerk.
F.ltrmount-(- . 4. Dean. J. P. Lwls. J. G.
SmIlth. eommlnloner; Jalo. Randolph, clerk.
WARD TWO. F
Pollock-C. U. Roblnon. T. L. Raider. W. L.
Johnon. commllhrlnern; J. A. ('hrletlan. clerk.
inlmgaa--J. H. Cou'non. T. J. McDlonald. A. E.
Crull,. commluioner: R. F. Selage. clerk
Hrute--H. I. Irwin. J. 0. Trryr, (leo. Fuller.
cmnglmalon:era: 4 E. Ralley. clerk.
Rardad-J. n. ray. .i. W. Hadnot. I.. E. Had
not. commlnloners; W. It. Jaceksonu. clerk.
WAHD THRKK.
SAntonin--J. W Barron·m. IP. I.. MIle. S. G. Mor- i
ran. c,mnasalonrrn: K. J. Faulkner. clerk. Ii
Cred-W. '. Futrell. J. W. Martin, T. B. Iben,
colmnllmlronern:; W. E Murry, clerk.
IDry PrI',n-W. . e (Oed. W. C. Nettle. ('. H. At
Hrtster. commnn one,; Ray Watson. clerk.
WARD FOUR.
I.Incr-,m--. H. Nugent. T. H. West. W. G.
L.inre, im.ne. m minloers; Fletcher Mat his, clerk.
Hwltnekelw-.l. . Nnwnt. B. F. Moore. J. F.
Buckelew. c.,nanleionern: W. L. Nugent. clerk.
WARt FIVK.
Rorhlle--.J. E. Adams. W. ('. Dunsa. F. P. Till.
mall. conminalonern: 4. J. hnimons., clerk.
felms--F. E. Fulblerton. B. . Ramnbo. MI. S4
Stark.. coninmianlonern: P. M. ('trry, clerk.
WARD NIX.
$ammrfarid--l. Mctills. am Johno.n, John
Bnlliltt. aonmmiallonert; Anmon Itlchardon. crk,.
WARI) WSE KEN.
Montmamery--R. A. Klllingrwortb J. .F. Ward
low, RIt. A. Seller., omanlllianloner; C'. E. Woola.
clerk.
Veeda-J. 4. rtIaster. W. I.. Bird. E.A.Rpenrlar.
comminaaonern: H. J letcher, clerk.
In tetnimon.r whereod wltnes oanrollaisuas- .
ture at 'olfax. Gtrant parihb. LoouIJana. on thibn
BIth day ofI March. A. Ii. 1511. In the prunte, of
the two attesting wltlnenum of lawfunl age and
domictle, who sign as *erb on thin day and date.
Wltneamen:
J. B. tOBERTII.
C. D. LMCROIX.
J. J. O'Q1INN.
H. U. GOODWYN,
Bupnvio of Lisetios. Grant Pawli. a.
Good Roads the Concern of All.
Lij Editor Colfax Chronicle:
to As there seems to be a boom
v- all over the country for road im- 1
t. provement, I will give you my 1
idea of ways and means for road
y, improvement in Grant parish.
d I suggest that all the wards of
d- the parish that have not already
in done so provide funds to keep up
lo their local roads by voting some ;
in time during this year a five mills
ce special tax for five years.
is Also the parish at large should
1e vote an additional five mills for
L five years for building model
is roads, as follows:
le 1st-A road from Packton to a
point on the Colfax and Rochelle
is road in section 31, township 7
re north, range 2 west, a distance
rs of 17% miles.
& 2nd-A road from New Verda t
g via Dry Prong to Pollock, a dis- 1
-e tance of 23% miles.
d 3rd-A road from Pollock to a
e, point on the Colfax and Rochelle
d road in section 13, township 8
t north, range 1 west, a distance
r of 10 miles.
4e 4th-A road from Colfax to the .
d Rapides parish line at section 8,
d township 5 north, range 1 east, a
is distance of 15 miles. a
n This gives us 66% miles in all, '
i. figured on air lines. Add 5% for
necessary variations and it would
n make about 70 miles in all. By 0
n By the State adding one-third to
c. the amount derived from this tax K
d it would approximate $1900 per b
o mile average.
This proposition would connect
n every town in the parish, and B
also give direct communication (
with Alexandria on the south and r
o - - ------ q 9
n ti
iD. L. mlthl
THE
'EYE-GLASS MAN
t o
r of
e 0e12
t ('. of
Btel
husday IM
ol l e w lat Imka
th
tion on all Glasses
II
He has all his glasses made ,
to them from the factory.W
He is not a Peddler
He is a graduate of the N.
O. Optical College and holds 2
the degree ofof
Doctor of Optics
thc
He fits glasses by the latest
s fdentic methods and guar
antee his work.
Don't forget the Children
Remember the day and place :p.
Thursday, March 30
Brinker Hoteld
Winnfield on the north. It seems
that with the experience our peo
n ple already have in road building
- that with the amount of money
Y thus raised these roads could be
1 built.
This is only roughly outlined,
f and, I would like to hear from
V others on the subject through the
? Chronicle. If we hear from this
2 may write again.
B Yours truly,
AN OBSERVER.
r A Good Family Cough Syrup.
Can be made by mixing pine-tar,
aconite, Sugar, hyoscyamus,. sassafras,
peppermint, ipecac. rhubarb, mandrak.
i capsicum, muriate ammonia, honey and
' glycerine. It is a pleasant, healing
l and soothing, raises the phlegm, and
gives almost instant relief. For con
venience of those who prefer not to
fuss, it is supplied ready made in 25c
! bottles under name of Dr. Bell's Pine
Tar-Honey. Can be had at your drug
Slist. Insist on getting Dr. Bell's Pine
Tar-Honey and see t:at the formula is
on the package.--Adv.-3.
JUDICIAL SALE.
Stateof Louiilana. Parishot Rapides. Thirteenth
Judicial District Court.
l.ec Lumber Coumpany. I.td.. vs. Shermnan Cook
and M. I.. Alexander.
No. 15.183.
Ity virtue of and to satisfy an order of seizure
alnd sale issued fron) th., Honorable 13th Jiudlc
lal District ('ourt. and to me directed as sheriff
and ex-offlcio auctioneer of Rapides parish, L.ou
islana, directing and eommanding me to selie
and sell, for cash, to the last and highe.t bidder.
without benefit of appraisement, at public aue
tion. after legal advertisement and acciordlng tl(
law, the hereinafter dsecrlbt.d property. I will
offer for sale to the last and highest bidder. at
public auction, at the trout door of the court
uboue in Alexandria. L.oiasiana, betwen the
hours prescribed by law. on
Saturday, April 22, 1916,
the following described properly. to-wit:
The following described lands sltuated on the
north side of Red river and In the parishes of
Rapides and Grant, in the State of Louislana.
to-wit: West half of SW yr, NE qr of SW qr.and
E hf of K hf of section 24 in township 6 north.
range I east.
North half of section iS; W hf of NW qr, SW
gr, hf of SE gr of nectio 17: NE qr. K hi of NW
qr. N hf of SW qr. N hi of SE qr.aund NE qr of ME
qr of e'rtion 19; all of section 290 (with the excep
tion of X hf of NE qr): W hf of SW yr. and NE qr
of SW qr of section ii : W qr of section 2%; N W
qr of Nr; gr. N hf of NW qr. SW qr of NW qr. and
ME qrof N:E ir of section 29; NE qr of NE gr of
section 31; K hf of E hf of s-ctken :12; S hf of N E
qr. NW qr of SE qr, NW r of NW qr. bf of NW
qr, and NW qr of section 3s: W hf of NW qr of
section 34; all into townahlip 6 north, range 2 east.
Northeast quarter of SE yr of msetion 23: the
northern portion of Mection 42. e.ntaining I.3s
acres, and described as comniencing where east
line of said section 42 int.-rsetts lvyou Flaggou,
thence run south on east line of said sectlon 42 a
distance of one-half mile, thence west 7% degree
north -16 of a mile, thence north on west line of
section 42 to Bayou Flaggon. thnee along Bayou
Flaggon to point of beginning; all that inirtion
of section 43. bosnded north by the ol Mlliioa
and laugre tract, east by m.ction 44. south by
section 44. In township 4 north. range I east, and
west by section 42. and countaining a quantity of
471 acres, which does not include Howard tract
of 50 acres; all of section 45 (with the exception
of NW qr of NW qr, and NW qr of SE qr); all in
township 5 north, range I east.
All of section 4 (with the exception of ME qr of
NE qr and NK qr of SE qr): all of section, 9(with
the exception dl the E ht oif NE qr); NE qir odf nE
inr of section S: all of fractional nectionu 17; lot I
of fractional seetio 2,. containing a quantitylr of
13U.96 acres; all of fractional section 23l: W qr
of SW qr. and S hf of SE qr of section 24. the
fructional SW qr of section 26; all of section 40.
being the John Burney grant; all of fractional
section 27; all of Iractional section 32; all of frac
tional section 33; all of section 36 (being the
Isaac Frasier grant) lying north of the north
line of sections 42. 43 and 44 produced; all of eec
tiot 36 lying north of Bayou Flaggou; all of set
tion 31 lyn.eg outh of Hlayou Flaggon; all of aw.
tion 41 (with the exception of SEqr of SE qr); all
Io townslhip 5 north. range 2 east.
All of sectiou 1 (with the exception of S hI of S
W qr); lot I, and hf o of f section 2; N W qr
of section 15; E hf of NE qr, and SE qr of section
16; all of fractional section 48, all in townabip 4
north, range I east.
Which lands aggregate a total quantity of J
10,149.71 acres, and are further shown on plat an
nexed to the act of sale and mortgage front Lee
Lumber Company. Ltd., to Sherman Cook and
M. Leigh Alexander. of date March 7, 1912, and
colored green on said plat. s
Excepting however certain timber and rights J
of way as reserved alnd excepted in said Rct of r
sale from said l.ee Lumber Co.. ltd.. to sainl
Cook & Alexander of said date March 7. 1912, and
recorded in Conveyance Book 61. page 55. of the n
iecords of Rapldes pariah., and also excepting f
the following described properties released from f
the effect of said mortgage and vendor's lien.
to-wit: t
(a) Lots 1. 2..1, 4. 5 and 6 of section 27; lots 1. t
2, 3. and 4 of section 32; all of fractional sectlon
33; all that portion of section 40 lying southeast C
of the dividing line between sections .13 and 3:1 in
said township and range produced in a direct ti
line northl through section 40 until It intersects
with the dividing line between lot 3 oif said ec.
tion 27 and fractional section 16 produced in a h
direct west line, which southeast portion of said
section 40 so released contains 325 5( acres: all h
that portion of section or grant 35 lying north
of the north line of sectlions 42. 431 and 44 prodnluc.
ed. whichl portion so rel.anir contains 41.15 n
acres: all in township 5 north, raiige 2 east: and
as released Iiy said Lee Lumiber c'l.. Ltd.. in the
act of sale fromi said Cook and Ablxander to Eli r
P. Willlanis dated January I. 1.113. and recorded
in Conveyance Book 6s, page 14 et neq. fi
(b) Sontheast qr, N hi. N It of, SW qr of n·clliin
1; n hf of E qr. bhf ofl SHW qr. and Lot I oi W.
tion 2; NW qr of aection 15: SE qr nuil E lit of
NE qr of section 16: all of fractional section 4I.
all in township 4 north.range I east. Thenortih
ern ortilon of cation d2containing l5. arms and
desribed as conmmencing where the east line if
said section 42 litersects Bayou Flaggon. andl S
thence rnll south on east line of said section 42"
one-half mllile. thence went 7% degrees north i-1l
of a mile,. thence north on went line of said .i- L
tion 42 to Bayou Flag~oa. thence along Bayolu
Flasggon to point of beginning. Allthaiportionll
of section 43 botnnded north by the old MiItlua
and Ialare tracts. east by sectlon 44. aouth by 15
se.tion 441. andl west by sectlixli 42. otlitaining J
471 aures, which doet not Include the Howardl
trat of 49 acres; N qr. hi of NWqr, W rr. ir
of NW qr. N bf of inW qr, hf of E qr of sectiton tI
45; all in townshil, 5 north, range I east. AllI of
sertion 3. lyIng oolb iflt lia.yoUn laorgon: N htf
and N hf of SE qr of ectlion 41. all in townahlp 5
north.range 2 east. Which release inenlltionel in I1
this paragraph is that madle bysaid il e Iel.nnlltr
Co. In art lif srnk froim said 'ooik anlid Alexanider
to, the I.ouisina Investleiit & earlritk a(' onl
piany. dared March S. 19!14, and recorded lu on St
vevanuee RBook 65. page 632.
(C) Soothwest qr of nE qr of sner-tion 41. torwn
ship 6 north, range 2 east. as iar release of ler
l.umber ('ompany to teirlge Hlavaty as per a-t
recorded li C'onveyance Iook ii . pnage t. hi
(d) oethwest qullarter of section 41.townslhip 5
north, range 2 "at. as per art if release from
Ie I.nnLtber 'nlaiiiany to Frclerick Briuglhn, re- 01
cirded in ionveyanie ltllnk 62. p'ea 4*12. el
(i) Northeast qr of SE qr of retoio 45. town
ship 5 north, rnnge 1 ast, as pee release Ifrol
iee limber CO. to, John M. Whlveley. recirded t
In ('onveyrance RoLk is. fohlio 414. L
Terms of sale-'ash, wilthout apprahIemMent. b
Alexandria, l.a.. Mareb 14. iSI.
F. E. DA VID.
Sherl and ex-OBeio Auetioner.
ol
THE BIG
Department Store
NEW GOODS ARRIVING DAILY
Our Stock is Complete in Every Department
New Customers are Being Added Daily to Our Al
ready Long List of "SATISFIED" CUSTOMERS
What Is The Best Evidence That This Store Is The Best
Place To Trade?
We Are Now Headquartres For All
Kinds of FEED
Buying in Cars from Mills---WE BUY CHEAPER
That Enables US TO SELL CHEAPER
We Buy Almost Anything You Have
To Sell
AND PAY YOU CASH
SYour PATRONAGE RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED
Peoples Cash Store
W. B. STROTHER, Manager
In Union Mercantile Company Building
Railroad Ave. Colfa, L.
Sheriff Sale.
u State of Louisiana, Parish of Grant,
{ 13th Judicial District Court.
No. 3190.
I Albert Hardtner Co., Ltd. vs. Wiley
Walker et als.
By virtue of a writ of seizure and
sale issued out of the Honorable 13th
Judicial District Court and to me di
rected in the above numbered ann en
titled suit, directing and commanding
me to seize and sell the property of de
fendant, I have seized and will offer
for sale at the principal front door of
the court house in Colfax, La., between
the hours prescribed by law for judi
cial sales, on
SATURDAY, April 29, 1916,
the following described property, seiz
ed as the property of the defendant
herein, to-wit:
160 acres of land, being the west
half of the northeast quarter and north
west quarter of southeast quarter, and
northeast quarter of southwest quarter,
all in section 22, township 6 north,
range 1 west, Louisiana meridian.
Terms of sale-Cash, with the bene
fit of aopraisement.
Colfax, La., March 22, 1916.
A. B. PERKINS,
Sheriff of Grant Parish, La.
Sheriff Sale.
State of Louisiana, Parish of Grant,
13th Judicial District Court.
Leander Willett vs. Thomas L. Rader.
No. 3218.
By virtue of a Writ of Fieri-Facias
issued out of the Honorable Thirteenth
Judicial District Court, and to me di
rected in the above numbered and en
titled suit, directing and commanding
me to seize and sell the property of de
fendant, I have seized and will offer for
sale at the principal fr6nt door of the
court house in Colfax, La., between
the hours prescribed by law for judicial
sales, on
SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1916,
the following described property, seiz
ed as the property of the defendant
herein, to-wit:
South half of the southeast quarter
of section 31, township 7 north, range 1
east, Louisiana Meridian, and the north
half of the southwest quarter of sec
tion 2, township 6 north, range 1 west.
Louisiana Meridian, together with all
buildings and improvements situated on
said lands.
Terms of sale-Cash, with the benefit
of appraisement.
Colfax, La., March 17, 1916.
A. B. PERKINS.
Sheriff of Grant Parh, La.
Cut This Out--It Is Worth Mancy.
Don't miss this. Cut out this slip,
enclos~ with 5c to Foley & Co., Chicago,
Illinois, writing your name and address
clearly. You will receive in return a
trial package containing Foley's Honey
and Tar Compound, for lagrppe coughs
colds and croup, Foley Kidney Pills,
and Foley Cathartic Tablets. J. W.
Duncan Co. -Adv.
L..ucuum O.--AUV.
"Telephone as
You'd Be Telephoned To"]
TE LEPHONE courtesy l
just. a bit of ordia~iry
politeness and everydayi
kindness that we put into
our conversation when weI
talk by telephone.
Its the face to face brand;:
of politeness and kindam s
used when we're voice to
volce.
It's the same politeness
and kindness that we Ske to
teceve -from the other md
of the wire.
Giving a Ntle thought to ta.e
its aple ru-les wil make the 4
CUMBERLAND tephone an even more eff, t
TELEPHONE & aid,4 fa you. ~·T
LERA O s Yo,'d be T oans-d
-, ,
ai mgkt CBhda.
Mrs. P. Rehkalnp, 2004 Hetme St.,
Cdvingtn, Ky., writes: "I bare bra
uioRg Foley's Hoaey and Tar for r.4 -
two years and can ind no better am -
cqugh syrup. I have eight kilM.1,
and give it to all oef them. They ,,.r
subject to croup from babies ore' .
is a sae and reliable medlea J. -J.v.
Duntem C6.-AdM .
