IJUST THREE WEEKS intervene between the date of this issue of The
Menace and April 15, the date of the paper's fifth anniversary. If you are
Eoing to have your name inscribed on the list of immortals, you had better
begin now to secure us that birthday present in the form of a good big list
of subscribers. Your list should be mailed by April 10th to insure its de
livery here by the 15th. Are you on the job? t
& ul -j T - --, , -p JA. Thl It Number 257
AMERICA SHOULDERS ARMS FOR THE POP
m
The purpose of the United States Army In Mexico stripped of all Its disguise and
pretense Is to re-establish the power of thfc Roman Catholic hierarchy in that unhappy
country, just precisely the same as the Amsrican Army at the expense of the nation's
tax-payers re-established the power of the Catholic hierarchy In the Philippine Islands
and maintained it under Catholic agents sent from this country until the hierarchy has
been able to gather up its loot and dispose of it at a good price to Japan.
I HEN VlUa shot sixteen American and ahipped
their dead bodies to 1 Paao he u acting un
der Catholic inspiration, and his hiding places
were arranged In advance for him in the church
es, convents and cathedrals controlled by the Ro
man Catholic prierts. That the Job was a con
spiracy was plainly trident, shown by the fact
that Whn th Cathn1iA.ninrl fnnrtar Vill. V.A . . .. A
out his part of the contract and shipped the bodies of sixteen ' '
Americana to El Pao vrr -n.mh- f ih. r.t,n- a,, i '7 " Ihi ' 'imr nH "J"'"-' J rt''t rrrt ty tn.kil 'connection with its friends in this conntry, nnder direction
jBncana w raso, every memoer oi tne Catholic church of m )! mm r-.ffrr-. At tito . oi io rorfim !.. tbrr iti ,. .... . . ' . .
In cotgrns set np a simultaneous and impassioned outcry u -". r u j of lh Eom Catholic hierarchy, proposed to take advantage
for an attack on Mexico. Bnt too many people in this conn- Nothing could be calculated to better serve the interest , f hxe bout lbe nmch de,ired Intervention of Mexico
try were aware of the influences behind'these cold blooded of lh Standard Oil Co. for here was the Roman Catholic !bv th UnUd Eut- therefore happened that when a
murders of Americans, simply because they were citizens of i oierarcnT 10 wexlco Tnenca in Mexican pontics and ac "".hom oi sauon irora an American oauieanip weni v
vuiwuivu u vwnkwMuiu smwmw-i Awujiitu una OAT lor uppuci vnry were unwarranicaiY ar-
5S5i f LT STRENQTH Or THEIR WELL-FILLZD mted by Mexican official., acting upon the advice of Huerta.
w uou, a.u viuumuvu tuilk uau uu u lur WIM
the United States and for no other reason, and this deviliah
effort to involve this government in a war with Mexico
missed fire.
But did this discourage the Roman Catholic hierarchy
and its plotting aide In this criminal conspiracy? By no
means. Just as soon as the murderer Villa could again be
reached by the means of communication which exists be
tween him and Baltimore, an invasion of paid guerrillas into
the United States was arranged, and a sanguine attack made
npon a small hamlet In New Mexico.
In order that the readers of The Menace may obtain a
complete knowledge of the fundamentals of this Mexican
trouble, we purpose to enter Into a somewhat detailed dis
cussion of all the facts. Klv
Everyone is aware of course, that under the administra
tion of President Diai the executive was practically a dicta
tor, and that the country made great economic and indus
trial process. Dial himself was an anti-Catholic and he
was one of the best business men that Mexico has ever pro
duced. In securing capital with which to develop the coun
try he became associated in most of bis enterprises with
Weetman Pearson, who was afterwards knighted by the
British government for the work he did in Mexico, and who
later on was raised to the peerage and is now known as Lord
Cowdray. Diax and Pearson built many railroads, canals,
publio buildings, jetties, wharves, opened mines, developed
the timber resources, and were peaceably proceeding on
their way when oil was struck near Tampico. It was quick
ly ascertained that a vast field of oil underlaid the Tampico
territory and President Dias and Pir Weetman Peanon
promptly organized the Pearson Oil Company and gathered
in the oil deposits for their own profit.
which ardently desired his overthrow. In the negotiations it
would appear that the hierarchy called special attention to
the fact that one of the essentials of a Mexican revolution
was "well-filled coffers," because the hierarchy has never yet
been known to overlook a chance to make a dishonest dollar.
At any rate it was reported in London on good authority
that the Standard Oil Co. paid the Roman Catholic hierarchy
$20,000,000 for a revolution in Mexico that would effectually
dispose of Porfirio Dias. With the payment of the funds,
After this act had been performed the sailors were released
bnt the captain of the battleship to which they belonged.
WHO WAS A CATHOLIC, WITHOUT WAITING FOR
ADVICE PROM WASHINGTON DEMANDED AN APOL
OGY AND A GUN SALUTE FROM THE MEXICAN GOV.
ERNMENT WHICH IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARRANGE
MENTS MADE BEFOREHAND WAS PROMPTLY RE
FUSED. The Catholio "Statesmen" instigated by the
which appear to have not been devoted to any great extent hierarchy in this country set up a yelp for Invasion and
to trie purposes for which paid, the Mexican priests fired the , nnally secured the landing of American troops at Vera Crux,
ignorant peons into rebellion with a promise that the large
estates would be broken up and divided among the peons.
U. S. Aids Hierarchy
It speedily developed after the launching of the rebel
lion that President Dias would be able to put down the in
surrection, and after some considerable fighting President
Taft, doubtless acting at the instigation of both the Standard
Oil and the Roman Catholic hierarchy, whose good friend he
always was, ordered an imposing force of American troops
to the border, and then notified Diax THAT IF HE DID
NOT LEAVE THE COUNTRY THE UNITED STATES
WOULD INVADE MEXICO I
In this case Rome got what she wanted without
using American troops, for Dias was well aware that he
could not win out when the entire American nation,
ignorantly, of course, backed the machinations of the Ro
man Catholic hierarchy and the Standard Oil with its armed
forces and financial power. Hence the aged statesman,
eluding probable Catholic assassins, left the city of Mexico
in the night, and after a series of narrow escapes in which
Catholic-inspired assassins tried to kill him, reached Vera
Cms, boarded a ship in the harbor, and sailtd to bis grave
in France.
The promises of the parish priests to the peons to divide
the large estates quite naturally did not arouse any great
amount of enthusiasm among the landed proprietors, among
whom was William Randolph Hearst and various other
Americans of prominence in this country. Certainly it was
far from the real idea of the hierarchy that the Mexican
should ever become anything but the ignorant beast that he
is, the result of their careful oversight and training for some
hundreds of years. Possibly, too, the Standard Oil observ
ing that the Catholic organization was not so powerful and
efficient as it had thought, also added its efforts to those of;
the large Mexican landowners and assisted in installing one
of the latter class, Madero, a non-Catholic, as the president
of Mexico. Madero appears to have been a compromise for
the purpose of straddling the promises made to the peons,
while yet preserving the interests of the established order.
But whatever he was or was not, It is certain that the
Standard Oil Takes a Hand
But the keen nasal organs of the Standard Oil sniffed
the air coming across the Gulf of Mexico and bestirred it
self in its own interest; for if there is one thing certain it is
that the Standard Oil Company dees not beam benignly
upon competition. And this competition promised to be
formidable not only because the oil deposits were vast in
extent but because the capital that could be obtained
through Pearson was practically unlimited, while the posi
tion of President Diax as the dictator of Mexico and one of
the main factors in the Pearson Oil Company rendered it
impossible for the Standard Oil Co. to operate against its
rival either by political means or through the medium of
legal action through the courts, legislation, or the notional
congress. The Standard Oil Company offered twenty million
dollars to the Diaz-Pearson Oil Interests for an entrance in
to the Tampico fields, and this $20,000,000 was refused while
the Pearson Company made imposing preparations for en
tering the world's trade. On the face of it one would imagine
that the Standard Oil could make no headway against cir
cumstances such as these; and as a matter cf fact it never
did, its entry into Tampico being a matter of later date, due
to circumstancesaentirely disassociated from anything that
went before. The opportunity it has now embraced would
have come to it anyhow had it only waited, and Mexico
would have been spared the long internecine strife that has
wrecked the nation. Neither would this country be hurry
ing its soldiers across the Rio Grande to attack'an alien peo
ple at the instigation of the Roman Catholic hierarchy to the
end that the Roman Catholic hierarchy may profit But the
Standard Oil could not wait or at least did not and we must
deal with the effects that have arisen from what they did.
Looking at it as the SUndard Oil did at that time, the
needful thing was to get rid of President Diax so that they
could secure an entry into Mexican politics and thereby be
in position to bribe politicians and newspapers, pass laws, and
control courts, much the same as they do in this country, j
What they wished to do was to transfer the political power
of Diaz from him to themselves it was their desire to own
the Mexican president and through him dictate such policies
as they desired. In casting about them for means of ac
complishing this purpose, the Standard Oil found conspicu
ously in the foreground the Roman Catholic hierarchy of
TIexico. This hierarchy had a considerable political organ, vision ox the hierarchy was to secure intervention, establish
i: it ion, known as the Clerical party, and had, until recently, American control of the territory, and this would make
teen the controlling factor in Mexico. Diax was one of thos Standard Oil a political power in those fields, and Pearsos
rt sponsible for its downfall, and the viewpoint from which then take what he could get. By well-directed maa-
.s e hierarchy looked upon Diax is easily surmised whra we among the various rebel bands that were then op
- - i the following in a history of Diax, taken from page 172 er4tiE? in Mexico, these oil fields were apparently threat-
:,t last edition of the Encyclopedia Brittanica: ened, and tome battleships were sent thero, ostensibly to
u w ri). who ktd imii. Wood in ai in, tu .fcKti 'protect tho interest of Americans, but which the secret
j tnhoiic chunk, bojj- kanug immense influence ia th eua- j cabal operating in the Mexican government and heirarcby in
aiid there, in an attempt to bring about a complete interven
lion. CATHOLIO PRIESTS CLIMBED INTO THE
TOWERS OF THEIR CHURCHES AND SHOT AMERICAN
SOLDIERS IN THE STREETS 1
Knowing the actual facts in the case, the patient Wilson
has steadily refused heretofore to be dragged into complying
with the wishes of this treasonable organization operating
against the governments of both Mexico and this country;
and his ability to perform the work necessary at Tampico
and Vera Crux, and then to successfully withdraw without
further invading the country, was high-class statesmanship
not often seen in this country, and which, in view of the
ignorance of the general public concerning the real in
fluences at work, required tremendous courage. That Wil
son has at last been compelled to place American troops on
Mexican soil is not a fault of his own nor one which so far
as he is concerned can be 'criticized ; but he would be per
forming a service to the country in general if he would
accuse the Roman Catholio hierarchy of treasonable con
spiracy and cause the arrest of every member who could be
shown to be involved in the' criminal intrigues of that in
famous organization; an organization whose practice is
thievery on a large seale and which is now engaged in an
effort to utilize the army of this country and the treasury
of this country to enable it to regain the power that it has
lost in Mexico.
Huerta Fiasco Brought Death
The reason that the government of Mexico finds it nec
essary to pass restrictions on the priests is because every
church, every cathedral every convent, every monastery in
Mexico is a hot-bed of conspiracy against the government,
a storehouse for arms and ammunition, a refuge for the flee
ing rebels and guerrillas that do the bidding of the hierarchy
In.its effort to overthrow the government; and every priest
is a lieutenant in this seditious and traitorous organization.
The reason that Villa cannot be found is because Villa can
always find refuge after killing his batch of Americans in
the Catholic establishments; he may disguise himself as a
priest, his hiding place can reach as far as under the bed of
a cloistered nun. Every one of intelligence, of thought, of
Standard Oil did not get what it expected, and that the J observation knows all this to be true, and it is time now to
Koman catholic organization was so thoroughly disap
pointed in the returns that they murdered Madero in cold
blood, and established Huerta a notorious traitor to his
put a stop to it.
The Catholic hierarchy has been making exceptional
mffnrtt Anrina th nut vflnr tn fnrra an invajHnn nt tha
friends, with a long record of murders to his credit, and IA .,,.,. . . t u .
whose conscience accommodated itself to any act thati United SUtes Mexico and for that purpose Huerta after
brought a profit. It is not probable that the hierarchy could
have placed in the position any individual who was nearer
its own actual character, who would be more qualified to
perform its service by intuition alone. There is very little
doubt but that the administration of Huerta was devoted to
a strong effort to deliver the goods to the Standard Oil. It
must be remembered by everyone that reads this article that
Dias bad left the country, the Pearson Oil Company was
still in operation in Mexico and that much English capital,
very likely some of it belonging to the king, the members of
parliament, and the great London bankers, was still in Mex
ico. It was not a difficult thing to run Diax out of tbt
country or to assassinate the unfortunate Madero, but wher
it came to seizing property thai belonged quite largely
the English governments, the English government would
have lo be dealt with. Thus it came about that the hierarchy
was unable, soon after it had gotten rid of Diax and mur
dered Madero, to fulfill its contract with the Standard Oil
and give it access to the Tampico fields. The English gov
ernment would not stand for it and President Wilson, who
by this time had succeeded Taft, very wisely refrained from
bringing that question to an issue between this country and
England, even though so "loyal" a citizen as J. Card. Gib
bons seemed ardently to desire it. -
Clever Move for Intervention ,
The logical way out of this, according to the blurred
he was driven out of Mexico was brought back to this conn
try and lodged in New York in close touch with the hier
archy where a filibustering expedition was arranged.
During his stay in New York he gave an excellent ex
hibition of the kind of characters that stand high in the
estimation of the Roman Catholio officials. He moved up
and down Broadway in a motor, drunk, and stopping openly
at saloons for additional liquors. He bought real estate in
New York City and vicinity and paid for it with Mexican
government bonds 'SIGNED BY HIMSELF; bonds for
which the Mexican government never received a penny.
This character was sent to the Rio Grande to head an in
surrection in Mexico for the purpose of regaining political
power for the Roman Catholic hierarchy, and it must be said
that ho was an ideal representative of his masters. It so
happened, however, that the United States Secret Service
knew exactly what this Catholio crew was about to attempt,
and upon his arrival at El Paso he was taken into custody
charged with conspiracy to violate the neutrality laws of the
United States. His various partners in the conspiracy, the
real instigators, the chief plotters, the ones who drew the
plans, the ones who furnished the money, were not molested ;
they live today in undisturbed ease in large American cities,
still conspiring, still plotting.
Huerta was not, perhaps, a man of any great discern,
ment or he might not have died when he did. The case
against him for conspiracy was shortly to have been called
when Huerta suddenly died surrounded by Catholic digni
taries, burning candles, and Catholio crosses. That he died
precisely when ho did must have been a great relief to his
fellow conspirators who were to derive the main benefit from
his successful operations. No one soemed to have noticed
the remarkable fact that as long as Huerta was at large his
health was sufficiently good to stand the dissipations of
Paris and New York, and that he was selected among many
others to lead an insurrection in the interests of the
'hierarchy in Mexico; but the moment that he waj arretted
by the United States government, charged with conspiracy
and was in a position where the whole tale must soon be
told, he suddenly sickened and died. By reading the follow,
ing telegram which appeared in the dailies, yon will observe
, that the chance of this conspiracy involving members of the
Roman Catholic hierarchy ceaaed to exist as Huerta breathed
his last.
f Antnnio, TVuv Tba im rint WlorUno Ilorrla la
fc1r.nl omul W-rr t automat trail th'uuwcl U-B ac f of k i doaih
la Kl I'm ai rra-oitrj.
Carranza Recognition Fans Flame
But if through this long maze of insurrection and
guerrilla warfare the Standard Oil did not accomplish its
purpose, that did not delay the real opportunity for the
Standard Oil Co. to secure its coveted share in the Tampico
Oil fields, and this came about in the natural course of events
without any assistance from the Roman Catholio hierarchy.
There is excellent reason to believe that the Standard Oil
was long ago sick and tired of the management of its Max
ican campaign by the bachelors in petticoats. Indeed it has
even been hinted that the great oil octopus felt no great en.
thuriasm at undertaking industrial operations in Mexico
with the Catholic hierarchy in control of the government.
England maintained a constant and efficient over-sight of
the interests of English capital in these oil fields and it was
quite evident to Standard Oil that no great headway could
be made without an understanding with the English govern,
ment which it did not seem possible to secure. The day
finally came however, when England came to this country to
borrow $500,000,000 with which to prosecute its war against
Germany. In this country the large capital movements are
directed by two interests, one of them being J. P. Morgan,
and the other Standard Oil. The Morgans alone could not
float half a billion dollars worth of English bonds and was
obliged to request the Standard Oil to participate in the un
dertaking. For a few days while the negotiations hung fire
Mr. Rockefeller's conscience would not permit him to supply
money for war purposes ; then suddenly the entire loan was
fully subscribed ; SUndard Oil began moving towards Tarn,
pico, THE AMERICAN GOVERNMENT RECOGNIZED
CARRANZA AND THE VILLA INSURRECTION FELL
TO PIECES. On the face of it the English covernaent had
( had to sacrifice some of the Pearson Oil Interests to gain the
j support of the Standard Oil in this country, but having done
so it probably feels itself under no obligations to the Roman
Catholic hierarchy, which has given the English investments
so much trouble and caused so much loss. Neither has the
Standard Oil any cause to reflect with satisfaction upon its
previous association with the hierarchy in Mexico; and cer.
tainly the administration could hardly have felt called upon
when the final time came for recognition to turn the govern
ment over to tha Roman Catholic, hierarchy after its treason,
able conspiracy had kept both Mexico and the United States
in a turmoil for years. Hence Carranza received recogni
tion, and this recognition was with the full consent of all the
interests, political, financial, and industrial, that make for
the well-being of the Mexican nation.
Insurrection Fomented by Traitors .
But the Roman Catholic hierarchy and its confederates
are not satisfied with the way things have turned out; mak
ing common cause with their tool, a bandit murderer, Villa,
they furni3h that worthy with plans and specification Tor
getting United States troops into Mexico, depending upon
him to lure the soldiers farther and farther, and npon their
own tools, both in the American army and in Mexico, to
further complicate the situation until an actual invasion of
an over-whelming force of American troops shall land In
Mexico for purposes of conquest. It is the theory of these
old bachelors who do reasonably well in saloon politics that
they are "diplomats and they think by involving the
United States and Mexico in hostilities, that they will be
able to regain their political control of that country at the
close of the war. Indeed, it is their purpose to propose to
the United States government to bring the war to a close
with the provision that they should become the governing
factor in Mexico with a free hand to continue plundering
and looting the intelligent and property-owning classes of
Mexico who despise them and their priests to such an extent
that their appearance, their claims of holiness, of charity,
etc, arouse only expressions of contempt.
The only power that the priesthood has in Mexico is
over the peons which it may incite to work or fight almost at
will; and while neither the working nor the fighting of the
peon accomplishes any great results, the large land-owner,
mill and mine operator finds it desirable to cross the palm
of the holy father with silver, if he wishes to get any labor
out of his employees.
All sorts of misinformation will be published to inflame
the people of the United States and the Catholic priests cf
Mexico will seo that the lying is done on a large scale in
order to stir up feeling against the Americans. At this writ
ing while the troops have not yet crossed the border the
priests are circulating the statement that Villa has captured
Texas and New Mexico, and that President Wilson with his
family has fled from Washington to Canada. These state. '
ments show the intelligence of the class which the priests are
manipulating it is of such a low grade that it can be
neither answered nor argued against and killing these miser,
able victims of the Roman Catholic hierarchy can hardly be
looked upon as a victory for a Protestant civilisation. Hence'
it is necessary to remain cool and collected, remembering
that the real insurrection has been fomented in this country
by men who ARE TRAITORS TO ITS INSTITUTIONS and
who purpose to use the armed force and the United States
treasury of this country, saddle themselves onto the unwill
ing Mexicans with a view oi continuing their plundering
processes which they have so successfully exercised for the
past four hundred years.
