"mrX)CiTjnm '
-
The St. Joseph Observer
vv.
I
VOLUME IX.
-n
T DEMOCRACY OF
miuii
S0UR1 MEETS IN ST. JOSEPH
'John H. Lucas, and a minority report
which was offered by Chailes II. '
And in State Convention Formulates aMa,i'r- Th:,ro ,w"e son,L' causlc ,ro'
I marks made by the proponents for
a Platform on Which all May Stand ; h,,2 XtJJSTu-
the convention was overwhelmingly In
I favor of the Indorsement of Governor
Delegates Are Chosen to Help Place theiMn,Jor,8 nddac- tor vice-president,
-3 i ' nnil tlin inilnrsi'mpnt nf tlip stntp nil-
Name of Wilson
Shortly before midnight Tuesday
the Democratic state convention held
here terminated Its business by the
selection of a national committeeman,
the election of eight delegates-at-large
to the national convention, the
election of five alternates-at-large to
the same convention, the selection of
two presidential electors-at-large, the
, Section of thirty-two district dele
.M gates and the same number of alter
nates, the unequivocal and enthusias
tic Indorsement of President Wilson
and the Missouri delegation in con
gress, the Indorsement of Governor
Major as a candidate for vice-president,
and the Indorsement of the state
administration, and wrote the state
platform.
It was the largest delegate political
convention ever held in St. Joseph,
and each and every delegate and the
thousands of visitors who attended
the proceedings were loud In their
praises of St. Joseph as a convention
city and will return hero whenever the
opportunity presents itself. The com
mittees, and especially the old reliable
Monroe Club, which had the arrange
ments and the handling of the dele
gates and visitors In hifnd, did them
selves proud, and .on all hands was
heard nothing but words of praise for
this city and Its entertainers.
A Few Storms
Of course, there were a few storms
they are always on the surface of
the political sea but they were not
fierce and were easily controlled.
What would a convention amount to
if there were not a few of these little
enllveners? That's what conventions
are for. If they were to be but one
long drawn out blissful sleep, not
enough delegates could be induced to
attend to- sign a committee report.
Rnnnli!. nr the iif nf rnnvpntinn
and make much to enliven otherwise
dull proceedings.
And then again, what would a con-'
ventlon amount to where all of the
1 delegates were of one mind and some
of them very pronounced in the way
that they had made up their minds,
while others don't care? Some of the
delegates to every convention must raffen iCooper' and E R' Mc- fair dealing with all our sister repub
have the opportunity to blow off their f,0mas ,,one: alteTr!ia,te8' Hcb of the western hemisphere, thus
surplus of accumulated gas, produced
from the reading of papers of the op
posite faith which have axes to grind
and in this way the proceedings are
made more lively and there is much
oratory and noise.
Taken all ln all, the convention was
a decided success from the moment
, that State Chairman McClung at high
nnM -,-.. J U ..,. Li i
-vjiuuu m.cu u.e 8l Bfte,..u,aBe m pe,er R Qunn of gt Lou, eiector - -"" "" " -.,,..
the gaily decorated Auditorium to or-' Jogeph Helderl y of St Louis j dent's patriotic course In placing
der and Introduced Hon. T. A. Dummj Eleventh district-Delegates, Rich-i"Ane,rica fls,t," ;vith rfferen,ct aU
of Jefferson City as temporary chair- ard M and Thoma8 Jf Leonard Quest Ion. .both domestic and Interna
man. who at once, In well chosen of St. alternates P. j. Moyna. tlona . which have grown out of the
wu,u, CAi)leBBeu ub Hpvreciauua ui
the honor, and then introduced our
own Mayor Marshall, who, ln a happy
way, tendered the delegates the free
dom of the city.
Everything for Wilson
It was strictly a Wilson convention
all e way through. Every time the
nam, of America's great president;
was mentioned u mattered not oy
whom, it brought forth a tremendous
mttfrti-at et nntliliotnotlrt a nnln nan nrwl
uuiuutot i vi.i..i.o.0i.v "lT"'"i
the convention in its resolutions in- ,. , ,
d-rspd his every action and declared 'Jou"ee"!h d strlct Delegates.
him the same as re-elected. Harry El Alexander ot Cape Girardeau
The convention organized with the'a"d E E; Bacon of Dutler: a,,ernates-
selection of Hon. Peyton A. Parks of ' C" John8on f Oregon and Everett
Clinton, Henry county, as permanent eS ?fcf,n, j0t' elector' A' IL
chairman, and Robert McClanahan of, Iardy " Stoddard.
Trenton, Grundy county, as perma-!
nent secretary. The various commit-
tees were then selected, and a recess1
taken until 3 p. m.
; iC",iAiiter reassembling, anu wnue wait-j-fng
for the committee reports, a num-
r ner oi prominent ueiiiucrius mnue
speeches, all of which were heartily' Durchard of Pulaski; alternates, Wll
received and applauded. Among the 1Is M- E1"8 ot Wright and Ben H.
.npotora were. Hon. John St. Alwood
of Kansas City, and ex-Gov. A. M.
Dockery, now third assistant postmaster-general.
The convention then proceeded to
the election of eight delegates-at-large,
each to have half a vote. The ballot-
inn- remitted in tlio selection ot Wll-
Ham J. Stone, James A. Reed, Champ
ST.
MS
Before Convention
Clark, J. T. M. Johnson, William H.
Phelps, W. W. Graves, Lon V. Steph
ens and James Cowplii.
Jumes P. Boyd, Fred A. Morris,
Thomas It. Ely, J. F. Osborn and
Frank H. Farrls were selected as alternates-at-large.
Ex-Governor Lon V. Stephens and
Judge J. W. Sullivan were selected as
electors-at-large.
District Electors Announced
The district delegates and alternates
and electors, which had been selected
at the congressional district meetings
held the night before, were then an
nounced, and are as follows:
First district Delegates, T. J.
Cousins of Marion and D. U. Ktevpns
of Adair;. alternates, J. J. Dimmitt of
Shelby, and Guy Pallen .of Shelby;
elector, Walter M. Hllbert of Lewis.
Second district Delegates, Joe, the worlu ln the face 0l seemingly
Broaddus of Lafayette, and John W. insuperable obstacles, at the same
Clapp of Sullivan; alternates, Leslie tmle keeping his country out of the
P. Robinson of Grundy, and Tom J. ' European war and thus insuring the
Copeland of Chariton; elector, George Prosperity and security of the people
F. Crutchley of Carroll. f the United States at a time when
Third district Delegates, Henry E. the People of practically all-the other
Perkins of Clinton, and J. B. Wllhoit ereat nations of the world are suffer
of Worth; alternates, L. E. Miller oflnS the devastation wrought by the
Gentry, and John S. Crews of Ray; nlost destructive conlllct of all time,
elector, W. F. Shoop of Ray. "H's forceful and effective cham-
Fourth district Delegates, George pionshlp, against all belligerents of
B. Baker of Nodaway, and George W. the lawful rights of Americans and all
Akers of St. Joseph; alternates, J. 1. 1 neutrals upon the high seas, whereby,
Bennett of Andrew, and Henry L. Dll-I aUhough uncertainties still cloud the
llngham of Platte; elector, Robert L. outcome, it seems assured that he has
Mlnton of Holt. w-on a victory which will be a lasting
Fifth district Delegates, John H.'filory to our country, and of priceless
Atwood of Kansas City, and W. T. importance to both the present and
Keeper of Kansas City; alternates,
John G. Paxton of Jackeon, and R. W.
McCurdy; elector, R. O. O'Malley.
Sixth district Delegates, H. 0.
Macey of Bates, and J. E. Brasfield of
Cass; alternates, J. A. Adamson of
Dade' and Jacob Luchsinger of St.
Cla,r: eIector- Senator W. H. Anthony,
oevemn msirici Delegates, t. m. action wnen tne massacre at Colum
White of Benton, and George V. Berry bus, N. M., shocked our land, to secure
of Lafayette; alternates, J. F. Mo! the apprehension and punishment of
Kinney of Polk, and Henry D. Durst the perpetrators of that dastardly
of Green; elector, Ewlng Y. Mitchell ' crime,
of Greene. I ,.Hlg mamtcnance 0f the -Monroe
Eighth district Delegates, W. B. I doctrine ami a consistent nolicv of
nufu ' "l ... ' . ",LK "'ory,
O Dninr 1' I. tl'nnda
Ninth district Delegates, N. J
Cave of Calloway, and Thomas Owens
of Montgomery; alternates, J. T. Har-
rlsontof Audrian, and J. H. Ronald of
I Warren; elector, J. O. Allison.
Tenth 'district Dplec-ntes. A. f
steuhr nnd .Tohn n T,nhprts nf St.
T,e. o1, ,, . ,,
' I
han and Anthony Kenke of St. Louis;
elector, Oliver Ash of St. Louis.
Twelfth district - Delegates. Johnot Arner.cans at home or tne honor,
P. Collins and Emmett R. Owens of' ecurlty or just lnteresta of America
St. Louis; alternates, Ed J. Rice and aDroad.
t J. Owens; elector, John R. Mc
Carthy of St. Louis.
Thirteenth district
Delegates,
Cnar,es n Pralt o( au Frands and F
M Vesse,s of BuUer; alternate8( .:
C. Bell of Washington and L. F. Far-
r o. plprtnr Prnnlr AIip nf Trnn I
. ' " ' ; , ' '
IV",B UI uarl" an" M- .
J Lawrence; alternates. John Ray of
iiuii) uuu J.uanu v. nitc ui iuwiun;
elector, Lee B. Ewlng of Vernon.
Sixteenth district Delegates, John
A. Stevens of Dent and Clarence
Newman of Crawford; elector, A. M.
Martin ot Laclede.
Goltra Was Re-Elected
With these selections made, the con-
ventlon udjourned until 8 P. in., at
' which time Edward F. Goltra of St. j
Louis and Judge James Cowglll of i
Kansas City were placed in nomlna-
tion for national committeeman, and
JOSEPH1, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, MARCH 25; 1910
a ballot taken disclosed the re-elec
tion of Goltra by a vote of 745 to
gs:
82. On motion of Judge CoAvglll the
lection of Uoltra was made unnnl-
election
mous.
Then followed the reading of the
resolutions nnd platform, there being
a mnjorlty report which was read by'
' ministration and this was fully demon
, strated when the vote was taken, re
! suiting In the Major and state admin
! Istratlon Indorsement 1,075 to 220.
.Here is the Democratic platform:
What We Stand on
This is the platform adopted, which
is big enough, broad enough, and plain
I enough for any American to stand on.
It says:
"We, the Democracy of Missouri in
I convention assembled, heartily indorse
the policies of the Democratic national
j administration and give our unquall
, fled approval of the masterly conduct
! of our national and International af
fairs under President Woodrow Wil
son.
"In the field of international mat
ters, we specifically approve and ap
plaud the following achievements of
our President
'His success in guarding the honor
and Just interests of America before
future of our commerce.
i "His refusal to allow our country
to be drawn by selfish interests of the
lust of conquest into the internal
strife in Mexico: his zeal to protect
the independence and fundamental
rights of the citizens of that unhappy
republic; and his prompt and vigorous
, substituting a feeling of trust and con
fldence in the United States among
the Pan-American countries for the
feeling of distrust and doubt of Amer
ican motives that formerly prevailed
and which has fructified ln agreements
assuring lasting friendships and a
rapid expansion of our trade in Cen
tral and South America.
"Wa olnnd nrlMltf hinlitnil tYa nraol.
! ":," V"' T -v ..-
citizenship above partisanship in
cvcij uiaucri iuvuiviu& eiuitri me uuij
Wilson's Splendid Achievements '
"As to the domestic questions, we
specifically point out and Indorse the
I following splendid achievements of the
president, which have been helpful to
all our industries and have aided In
bringing about the prevailing era of
almost unexampled prosperity,
..nls practlcal and etticiml acUon
which, though dedicating America to
' the cauge of peace and pledglng Araer.
leans never to undertake another war
of aggre88loni now assures Immediate
! expansion of the army and navy to
provide adequate means of military
defense against aggression.
"His emancipation of the commer
cial and industrial interests ot our
country from selfish domination by
securing the enactment ot the federal
reserve act, under which the country
is forever freed from the dangers of
financial panics and a democracy of
credit Is permanently established.
"Ills fearless enforcement of the
Sherman anti-trust law, thus breaking
up the oppressive trusts that were
born under Republican rule, and his
success in securing the enactment ot
supplementary antitrust laws for the
complete eradication of harmful mo-
'
JUST A WORD, DEMOCRATS
Is It not about time for you to v
discover that The News-Press Is
not a Democratic paper and,
further, that It hag an ax to grind?
Is It not about time for you to
stop taking advice from it on how
you should act In regard to mean-
ures which affect your city, your
state and your country?
Is it not about time for you to
dlscow-r that If you follow its
suggestions, that you are falling
Into the trap which it and Its
henchmen have set for you, and
that when It snaps the trigger
you will bo its prey and It will
laugh at ou for being so cred-
ulous?
Is it not about time for you to
find out that you know Just about
as much about what is for jour
own good as does .the Republican
News-Press that hates someone?
Is it not about time for you to
realize that If you follow its ad-
vice you will not elect a man on
your ticket?
. V4A.
1 nopoly and the restoration of competi
tion, as promised by the platform'
pledges of the Democratic party.
, "His firm and uncompromising op
position of privilege and favoritism in
nllV tn. (T r.u..r. ...1.I..1. 1 .1 4 .. .1
. . . . i
u i,,.i oj-iicm, miivu icu iu mu.wmcn uoDinson men, iteillv men.
substitution of the Underwood tariff Major men, Crandall men, anti-Major
act for the unjust and burdensome 'men, anti-Crandall men and all other'
Payne-AJdrlch act, and which caused 'kinds of men of Democratic persua-
the enactment of the income tax law,' sion, met together and with one accord
which shifts the burden of taxation
from those least able to bear It to'
those best able to pay.
"His fearless exposure and conse
quent elimination of "Invisible gov
ernment" at Washington, which, with
1 Insidious methods, exercised a baneful
and controlling influence on legislation
for many jears.
"His prompt action in me?tlng all
i Just demands of labor, so long ignored
;by the Republican party; and by legal
enactment forever establishing the grumblings of the personally conduct- avenUP
principle that human labor is not a'ed News-Press and the harmless mur-1 SaturdaJ' and Monday night will be
commodity. I murs ot the standpat Gazette, and devoted t0 parades and central meet
"His unrelenting opposition to the show these organs that the voters of inKS' ln wnich a11 ot the candidates
Inordinate greed of special Interests' st. Joseph have a mind of their own and ,neir frlenus wiu wlth numerous
and his course in responding at all and are not being "personally con- bands and drum corps bring to a suo
times to the demands of the people 'ducted" to slaughter in order to sat- cessful conclusion a whirlwind cam
for legislation in the interest of the'isfy the grudge" which these papers palgn for tne election of tne cIty
great masses of the people rather than! hold against the city simply because Democratic ticket,
ln the Intel est of special classes they cannot control.
iv,rtrS-.nr ,i J U was also unanlni0USlv decided MISCHA-ELMAN MONDAY
ror these and many other good that while Reilly and the Democratic
reasons which could be recited we city ticket had no daily newspaper The Great Russian Violinist Will De-
uu;eu me unanimous aemana ot tne.sunDort that he anrt If shnulil hnvp
Democracy of this state for the renom
Ination of President Woodrow Wilson
by the Democratic national convention
in St. Louis and instruct the dele-
gates chosen by this convention to
vote for his nomination, and we confi
dently predict his re-election by an
overwhelming majority of the Ameri
can electorate.
The Recommendations Urged
"We Indorse and urge prompt enact
ment of the president's recommenda
tions to congress incorporated in the
pending legislative program, conceived
with the same patriotic purpose that
has characterized all his policies and
public acts. We particularly indorse
and recommend early passage of the
following measures:
"The ship purchase bill, which offers
the only practical plan for creating
quickly an American merchant marine
for the carriage of the products of
American farms and American Indus-
uica iu mo yvuuiub jimrneia 01 wie
world.
"The tariff commission bill, to pro
vide the means of protecting American
manufacturers against any emergency
which may follow the close of the
European war.
"The rural credits bill, which will
enlarge the market for the sound so
curities of the farms of the country
... . ..'
anu enable farmers to obtain credit
on lair anu reasonaoie terms.
"A Philippine Independence bill ,
which accords with American Ideals
of government and pledges ultimate
freedom to our wards, the Filipinos.
"The corrupt practice bill, furnish
ing real guarantees against the cor
rupt use of money in federal elections.
"The measure to improve the Mis
sissippi and Missouri rivers, Including
a comprehensive program for prevent
ing the disastrous floods which have
so often caused appalling loss ot lite
and property ln the Missouri and Mis
sissippi valleys.
"The Democratic party has earned
the continued confidence ot the Ameri
can people because it has made good
its pledges given them. It awaits a
further opportunity to serve them and
gives assurance tbat if the affairs ot
the government are continued ln its
charge that it will favor:
"Full and adequate preparations for
(Continued on Page Eight)
MAKING A WHIRL-
W I N I
GAMPAGN
And It Is Being Pushed With
a ii ii tt- i . 1
ah me v igor ana -irengxn
of Virile Men
WHOSE EFFORTS WILL
SPELL VICTORY
, obliged to wait the action of Dr. Cran-
dall. He showed conclusively that ir
The Democrats of the City, With the "dives" are operating in St. Joseph,
Help of the Ever Energetic Monroe ' Mayor Marshall had complete power
Club, Have Started the Wagon to' to close them.
Rolling, Which, When It Reaches Its' The South End Tonight
Destination, Will Land Barney' Anl there, will be plenty doing to
Reilly In the Mayor's Chair and night when the South End will be in
Along With Him All of the Other' vaded and a big meeting will be held
Democratic Candidates.
Despite the assertions of the Renub-
i if - . .. ..
"can -News-i-ress anil tne equally Re-
publican Gazette that there is a dlvi-
sion of city Democrats, it was not
manifest in the opening meeting of the
Reilly for maor campaign at the Mon-
roe club rooms Wednesday nicht. On
the contrary the meeting was an old-1
fashioned real Democratic affair, at
' -t.ll. n . .
decided that they did not need the help
or the advice of the Republican News-'
Press (which hates some one) and its
Republican ally, the Gazette, and that
they as Democrats would simply put
their shoulders to the wheel and by!
concerted effort elect Barney Reilly
mayor; George W. Stafford, auditor;
Robert J. Kennard, treasurer; James
T. AUee, police Judge, and Dr. A. IlJ
Holkenbrink and James L. Marshall
aldermen, over the protests and
that full fledged, red blooded personal
support which comes from genuine
comradeship in the furthering of a'
mnvempnt -hinh ha merit nmi ,,hiin
...v t... j.uw..,
spiritedness as its inciting cause. All
of them lesolved and agreed to work
from that moment on until the polls
closed Tuesday, April 4, to insure the
election of Reilly as mayor and every
candidate on the Democratic city
ticket. j
They Began Right There
And they started the ball to rolling
rlght there and then by beginning the
arrangements for a whirlwind cam-
paign which opened with a big speak-'
ing meeting at St. Joseph avenue
and Fillmore streets the next night,
at which time Ed M. Swartz, L. C.
Gabbert, Barney Reilly and B. R. Mar-
tin were the principal sneakers and
where they enunciated the idea that
ft was no crime for a young man to
aspire for political preferment, no mat-
t er If he did not own half of the real
estate in St. Joseph, but had business
acumen, honesty of purpose, a knowl
edge of the needs of St. Joseph and
how to secure what was needed and
gave the people of St. Joseph an hon
est and capable business adminlstra-
t!on.
They also called attention to
the fact thal he was now handling
properties worth manv thousinds of
Properties worm man inousanus o:
dollars for some of the best business
men of the ritv nf st. .Tnpnh nnrt
that he had . clean recorda rernr.i
that would stand with that of the
most exacting of his self-appointed
crltlcs and detainers.
., , . j .
The meeting was largely attended
ana me entnusiasm manifested wouia
not cause his detractors to feel an?
unusual degree of certainty of encom
passing his defeat which they so
much personally desire because they
hate some one.
Two Big Meetings Last Night
It would not have been very pleas
ant for those self-appointed "guardlanb
of public morals" (who hate some one) $13, and her bank book was No. 13,493.
to have attended the Reilly for mayor! The thirteens Just keep bobbing up la.
meeting at Joucken's hall, Thirteenth her life.
and Sacramento streets, Friday I The newspapers had made much ol!
night, and witnessed the enthusiasm thirteen being President Wllson'r.
with which the Democratic candidates lucky number, so Nettle, with the help?
were received. The hall was packed of her father, wrote to the president
to Its utmost capacity and the argu-jand told him about tbat thirteen nutri
ments of the speakers fell on good ber. And the president found timet
ground. In addition to Reilly, who re-' to send Nettie the above letter.
NUMBER 25
celled an ovation, 'rousing speeches
were made by Robert C. Dell, Asa
Port ei, J. It. Clay. Ed M. Swart. W.
IJ Norris and all of the candidates.
And it would have afTorded these
detractors still less pleasure to liavo
attended that demonstration the same
night at Murhenberger's garage, Six
teenth and Frederick avenue, where
a11 wh0 dP8lred cou,d not get ,ns!de
,0 llBtpn t0 Hellly, L. A. DeBord,
to
Stephen F. Owen, Judge A. D. Dun
can, Oscar D. McDanlels and all of
the candidates who also spoke. Reilly
laid down the proposition and proved
it that Mayor Marshall, his opponent,
could if he desired, close up all of the
alleged "dives" in the city, and not be
at Missouri and King Hill avenues,
whpre Reilly and all of the candidates
and Swartz, Bell, Norris, Owen, Clay
and othcrs wiU 8Peak after the band
rnrwlnraofmnpnt't
"""" ...,.....
'" 0," Ullre "'" u" a puraue oi uio
Princ'Pal up-town streets by bands
and drum corps aml an open alr meet
lns wm De nem at e0 an"
mond streets.
Monda' nSht there w111 be meetings
held at Twenty-sixth and Frederick
i avenue, Twenty-fourth and Duncan,
and Eleventh and Powell,
Tuesda' nlSnt aI1 of the candidates
and speakers will hold meetings at
Patee market, Humboldt school, and
Thirty-third and Mitchell avenue,
Wednesday night there will be meet-
lnKS at slxth and Hlckory. at Twedell's
nal1 in South Park' and at KlnS HIlt
and Valley streets.
Thursdav nIS"t there wln bp muslc
and oratory at Eighteenth and Olive,
at Twenty-eighth and Lafayette, and
at Nineteenth and Jule.
Friday nIcht there wi be stings
at Smlth Park' ThIrd and F"lln.
and at Gleave's hall on St. Joseph
light His Hearers at the
Auditorium
Mischa Elman, the great Russia
...,,... ....... u ,-.... . .,
juiinisi, huu lias juaeu iu uuu utr-
lighted thousands, will be the attrao
tion at the Auditorium Monday night,
when he will appear as one of the
numbers of Mrs. Francis Henry Hill's
local concert season. That the attend-
ance will be large Is indicated by the
great advance sale of seals which
opened at the street railway offices
yesterday morning and which dis-
closed a promised attendance of more
than Mrs. Hill expected,
u ,s sald tbat there was onl' one
01e Bul1- and ,he samo clalm holds
good ln resPect to the great Russian
violinist there Is but one Elman and
he vr,n be heard ln a11 of hls onder-
ful worH Monday night.
WILSON 'THIRTEEN GIRL.
VVXJJOW1 vt--l
The President and a Little Des Molnec
Girl Have No Fear of
the "Hoodoo"
Des Moines, Iowa, March 24. Little
three-year-old Nettle Maxine Renner
of Des Moines is President Wilson's
little "Thirteen Girl." Thirteen is Net-
"'" Z ,,, ZrlJZ
tle 8 lucky number-also President
i...,..-!, Thnf , .h tha p.Mn.
Wilson's. That is why the President
has sent the following letter to Nellie:
T-t t mi . um.t- jiiiii. t
..ff.i:r."",,,L ..ij""?" .iL"-' .. J
much. It certainly is Interesting the
number of thirteens that have oe-
1c"rfed ln 'our 8nort m- and x bPf
that as the years go by they wi.L
Drlng you nothing but Joy and good
fortune. Faithfully yours.
WOODROW WILSON.
To begin with, the "Little Thirteen
Girl" lives in East Thirteenth Street,
Des Moines. She was born on Jan.
13, 1913. When thirteen days old she
attended the cradle roll class of the
Capitol Park Methodist church. Her
parents started her bank accounUwitn
Mf-O
